The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
-^ 
VOL. 41 NO. 6

NOTRE 
YEAR END 1963 


DAME 
IN MEMORIAM: JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY, LL.D. 1950, 35th PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES 
"IN PARADISUM DEDUCANT TE ANGELI." 
Vol 41, No. 6 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25, Ed/lor 



NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., '41f Columnist 
On the Cover: 
Father Norton (left) and Father Covanaugh 
odjust the doctoral gown of Congressman 
John F- Kennedy (D.-Mass.) after confer­
ring the honorory degree of Doctor of Laws at midyear commencemeni exercises in Jonuory, 1950. Father Covanaugh was requested to offer Moss before the cof^n of President Kennedy in the East Room of the White House on November 23, 1963. 

The bock cover illustrates the dead Presi­
ident's many honorary and familial lies 
to the University of Notre Dame: as an 
honorary alumnus and member of the Advis­ory Council for the College of Liberal 
and Fine Arts; as recipient of both the 
Loelare Medal end the Potriotism Award of the senior class; and through similar honors conferred on his brother, fother and grandfather over the pasi fifty years. 
As we went to press on November 22, the cover was to depict the ringing down of the curtain on the happy "Dromo of Challenge I." But that day sow the curtain drawn on the tragic drama of a man intimately involved with the University, whose years of greotness and challenge to America, 1960-63, corresponded to the years of Notre Dame's greatest development to dote, the period of Challenge 1. 
"I do not shrink from this responsibility — 1 welcome it," Thus President Kennedy begon the coreer that ended at the hands of on assassin in Dallas. As Father Hesburgh has written, "May this sad day be not one of darkness, no triumph for the powers of evil, but the birth of a great new light that will for yeors to come inspire others to great deeds, come what may." To the memory of John fltzgerald Kennedy this issue is prayerfully dedicoted. 

In This Issue: 
2  Dedication:  to John  Rtzgerald  Kennedy,  U.D.  '50  
3  The Drama  of Challenge  I by Rev. John  E. Walsh, C.S.C. '45  
5  Editorial: The Scope of Your Achievement  by James E. Armstrong '25  
6  Notre Dame  Collection  by Victor  A. Schaefer / 1964 N.D. Convention  
7  A Look  at the 'New Look': Alumni  Assn. Board of Directors  
8  Alumni  in the Forefront: The Nev/man  Apostolate  
9  Notre  Dame  Books  
10  Why Do I Travel?  by Frank  J. McGinnis '24  
11  Man and the Moment: The Grotto by Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C. '41  
12  Law School  Page  
13  The Student  Slant  by Warren  Clayton  Stephens '64  
14  Notre  Dame  Clubs  
25  Classes:  Statistics,  Spotlight  Alumni, etc.  
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR 


Year End, 1963 JOHN F. LAUGHLIN, '48, Managing Editor 
BRUCE HARLAN, '49, Photographer 



ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Officers 

WILLIAM P. MAHONEY, JR., '38.. 
.Jionorary President 

OLIVER H . HUNTER, '43 President JOHN P. DEMPSEY, '49.J''ini(f Vice-President WiLLiAsi H. FALLON, '37 
Club Vice-President 

PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY, '50 
Class Vice-President 

JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 
Executive Secretary 

Directors to 1964 

JOHN P. DEMPSEY, '49 
Kidder, Peabody & Co. 123 Broad St, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY, '50 
P.O. Box 5672 Minneapolis 17, Minnesota 
WILLIAM H . FALLON, '37 
160 Pelham Road New Rochelle, New York 
OuvER H. HUNTER, '43 
F.B.I., P. O. Box 23 New Castle, Pennsylvania 

Directors to 1965 

ALBERT D . CASTELLINI, '24 
506 First National Bank Bldg. Cincinnati, Ohio 
PHILIP J. FACCENDA, '51 
1510 Ogden La Grange, Illinois 
PETER J. KERNAN, JR., '49 
661 Washington Road Crosse Pointe, Michigan 
TIMOTHY J. TOOMEY, '30 
12 Windermere Avenue Arlington 74, Massachusetts 

Directors to 1966 

GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR., '44 
416 Burlington Avenue Bradley Beach, New Jersey 
PAUL I. FENLON, '19 
141 Sorin Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
MORTON R. GOODMAN, '30 
2415 Pilgrimage Tr ^ Los Angeles 28, California 
W. LANCASTER SMITH, '50 
Dallas Athletic Club Building Dallas 1, Texas 

Chairmen of the 1963 Committees 
. Academic Affairs 

PHILIP J. FACCENDA Admissions JOHN P. DEMPSEY. 
Alumni Fund, Foundation & Gifts 

PHILIP J. FACCENDA Athletics ALBERT D . CASTELLINI Budget & Finance PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY. Class Activities 
WiLLUM H. FALLON Club Activities 
OUVER H. HUNTER Executive PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY 
Inter-Alumni Affairs 

WILLIAM H. FALLON AND JOHN P DEMPSEY Nominations PETER J. KERNAN, JR.. 
Placement & Counseling 

PETER J. KERNAN, JR Public Relations ALBERT D . CASTELLINI. 
Religion & Citizenship 

PETER J. KERNAN, JR Student Affairs 
This magazine is published bi'lnonthly bj the Univeratr of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second clax mmt­tcT Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 

2 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
T
HE CLOSING CURTAIN, formally ending Challenge I, has been rung down. This thrilling Notre Dame drama 



The DRAMA of 
in real life ofBcially ended on June 30, 1963. The meet­


CHALLENGE / 
1960-1963 

by REV. JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C, '45 Vice-President of Public Relations and Development 
ing of the $18,000,000 Challenge target was a soul-stir­ring performance on the part of many devoted men in many different roles. The approving applause of all those interested in private higher education, especially of all our Notre Dame faculty and students, still thunders through­out the land and across the campus. 
The purpose of this brief report in the ALUMNUS is to call certain persons and certain categories of people out into the spotlight for a special curtain call and then to take a quick look in review behind the scenes of this re­markable drama. 
Like every successful production. Challenge I required 
the best efforts and the most loyal dedication of the entire 
cast. Each person connected •with Challenge I played his 
part well. There were few missed cues and the timing was 
without major flaw. Those in leading roles and those in 
supporting parts each contributed the full measure of their 
good talent. Older players and younger players accepted 
together the weight and the burden of the job to be done. 
First, a special curtain call for Mr. I. A. O'Shaughnessy, 
the Honorary National Chairman of Challenge I. His con­
cern for the campaign and his interest in its success were 
never far from his heart. 
Second, a very special curtain call for the National Chairmen for Challenge I: Mr. J. Peter Grace of New York, Special Gifts Chairman, and Mr. Joseph I. O'Neill, Jr., the General Appeal Chairman! Both deserve special credit for the inspiring leadership, the wise direction, and the boundless enthusiasm they brought to the Campaign. It is not too much to say that the Campaign might not have been a success at all if they had not interpreted their roles so convincingly. 
Next, the Citj' Chairmen, both Special Gifts and Gen­eral Appeal, in some 170 cities! To assemble all of these men on any real stage for a curtain call would be an im­possibility, but the stage of human gratitude and appre­ciation is a large one. Our City Chairmen occupy that stage in all Notre Dame hearts. Their performance was intense and thorough. They captiured the spirit of the drama well, and they gave great depth of meaning to the roles they played. Because of our City Chairmen, Challenge I was a play with a happy ending, a comedy, rather than the play with an unhappy ending, a tragedy, it might otherwise have been. 
Next on stage, the 3,500 Committeemen who so well and so willingly became, during this dramatic period, sales­men and ambassadors for Notre Dame. They were per­suasive, indeed, as the results clearly show. Over 80% of Notre Dame's alumni responded to the appeal of Chal­lenge I. This is a near record, if it is not in fact a record, for percentage of alumni participation in any university capital gifts campaign. 
And finally on the vast stage of oiur imagination, the 23,500 who contributed from their own means and re­sources to Challenge I. Each has been thanked and each knows of Notre Dame's lasting gratitude. But the best thanks of all is each one's own realization that he is helping in the noble work of building a great university, Notre Dame. Each one, too, realizes that he \vill share in the prayers and the gratitude of all future generations of Notre Dame men. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
To one and all Notre Dame's tlianks and Notre Dame's 
congratulations. 
But now to move backstage, behind the scenes! With 
the theater emptied and in the full light of day, how do 
we assess the drama and the value of Challenge I? How 
do we get at the facts and the spirit behind the statistics? 
As is true of all drama, whether in real life or on the 
stage. Challenge I •was a tense and difficult drama all the 
way. Its outcome — the conflict or the action it demanded 
—
 would be unresolved until the play's very end. At the b^inning, many people knew the attaining of this goal 

—
 the meeting of the challenge — would strain all talents and all energies, if it were not actually impossible. As the curtain went up, both those on stage and those in tlie wings were, perhaps, a bit stage-frightened. But as the drama started to unfold, as all in the theater of this Campaign became more s\vept up in the impulse of the developing plot, and as the reality of the drama became more apparent to everj'one, a sense of confidence, of poise, and of as­surance seemed to give new vividness and force to the performance. 


The play's end carried with it a wave of deep and genuine enthusiasm and a joyful sense of accomplishment As Notre Dame men ever)^\•here saw what they could do for the University, they felt an even greater pride in their University and in themselves and they shared gladly and gratefully in the momentum of the success. Challenge I has been called the greatest outpouring of Notre Dame spirit, loyalty, and cooperation in the entire history of the University. The magnificent new Notre Dame Memorial Library, the largest uni\-ersity library in the world, now al­most finished and already completely paid for, is one evidence of this — but only one. 
The first act of the drama of Challenge I called for setting the stage, planning the strategy, developing ma­terials, explaining the case, and enlisting the ideas and the assistance of the men who were to carry the Challenge Campaign to the front lines. Meetings of the Special Gifts Chairmen and later the General Appeal Chairmen were held on the Notre Dame campus in the fall of 1960 and 1961. It was explained that the Ford Foundation had se­lected Notre Dame as one of five universities to participate in its Special Program in Education and had challenged Notre Dame to raise $12,000,000 in cash in three years by offering to match that amount by an unrestricted §6,000,000. The Chairmen, who attended these meetings, were delighted with the honor implied for Notre Dame and they were sure that with hard work the Challenge could be met. A na­tionwide telephone network linked together Notre Dame 
alumni and friends in 140 cities to e.\plain, to inspire, and 
to launch the General Appeal phase of Challenge I. 
But Act II, forwarding the action and the involvement of the dramatis personae, meant actually mobilizing the strength and the immense good will of all Notre Dame alumni and friends. If the challenge was to be successfully met, Notre Dame would have to raise, in each of three years, not twice but triple the amount it had raised in any ' pre\'ious year. This message had to be clearly understood by all members of the Notre Dame family. It would be necessary to highlight its urgency and its priority. The • University Administration and the Assistant Directors of the Notre Dame Foundation had to take this message to , every comer of the country. Thirty-five hundred volunteers, . Notre Dame men all, worked with tliem and assisted them in ever)' way. 
Act III, the climax — the moment of decision and the denouement! Act III required that every Notre Dame alumnus and Notre Dame friend wherever humanly possi­ble, be personally contacted and urged to contribute. The scene shifts away from the Notre Dame campus to thou-' sands of homes and hundreds of offices across the country where the crucial moment of the drama would be enacted. It is easy to imagine the hundreds of different settings in . which Notre Dame men gathered in small groups and in large groups to discuss Notre Dame and to decide how , actively they would share in its future. 
The alumni volunteers began their calls. The Assbtant Directors of the Notre Dame Foundation kept their bags packed ready to catch early morning and late night planes. The lights burned throughout the night in the Notre Dame ' Foundation Offices. How would it go? How would the . Challenge be received and answered by the Notre Dame family? Now we would know whether we were ready, ,_ whether we had been overly optimistic, whether Notre Dame alumni and friends, whose loyalty was never in ques­tion, could rally in such dollar amounts to the Challenge , Program at this time in Notre Dame's history. 
The drama of Challenge I is now played out to its amaz-^ ing and thrilling and highly successful conclusion. The answer is now well known and fully recorded. Into it went the great love of many {}eople. No university and no per-' son could ask for more than that. But love is not to be measured in dollars and cents important as these are to the growth of any great university. Notre Dame, like ever)' r great private university, will face, we can be sure, further challenges and further dramas in the future. i 
 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
ing, that a part of today's success story 

MtorM Comment THE SCOPE must be attributed. 
from your Alumni Secretary 
Y
o u HA\TE MADE HISTORY. This is not a light statement. By this time you know the details of the magnificent story of the alumni response to the University's $18,000,­000 Challenge I Program. You know that the $18,000,000 goal was exceeded, and that the Ford Foundation match­ing gift of $6,000,000 for a correspond­ing $12,000,000 was also achieved. 
"The Notre Dame Science Quarter­ly" was initiated in the fall of 1962 to fill the need for a medium of student expression in the natural sciences. The annual subscription drive is now being conducted. Subscriptions start with the February issue and are $2.75 per year. Please address all subscriptions to: Circulation Manager, "Science Quar­terly," Box 563, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
But the new chapter in Alumni his-
tor)' is naturally foremost in my think­
ing. 
You know that more than 18,000 
alumni — 80% o/ those contacted — 
set an all time high record of partici­
pation. [We are still not a large body. 
A substantial number of religious could 
not be involved. A substantial number 
of young alumni away from their home 
addresses could not be contacted. The 
Classes just graduated were a year be­
hind the program in any form of solici­
tation. And there is alwaj-s tliat sub­
stantial percentage whose addresses are 
not currently available for contact.] 
You know that alumni gave or pledged $6,209,855 — a third of the Program total, and twice what the pro­fessional fund-raising counsel had projected from this source. We are still a relatively young alumni. This showing was truly magnificent. 
You know that $255,000 came from 13 aliunni-owned or controlled founda­tions. Here is the dawn of an even greater future for Notre Dame, as our alumni assume the stature formerly indicative of older associations than ours. 
Similarly, $442,000 from 236 alum­ni-owned or controlled corporations indicates the tangible leadership of Notre Dame men in business and in­dustry, which has long been a hope and a prediction, and which now as­sumes substance. 
But in the $5,513,000 from 17,764 


OF YOUR ACHIEVEMENT 
individual alumni donors lies the force and the forecast of the new era which Challenge I has brought to Notre Dame men. 
The Challenge Program, the Ford Foundation matching grant incentive, the New Library and other phases of the immediate success are well known. 
I would like to pay tribute, at this point, to factors which contributed to this success, which might escape the appreciation due tliem if they are not mentioned in its relating. 
The alumni who, in 1868, created the first Alumni Association, recognized the integral part of the graduate in the life of his alma mater. 
Father John W. Cavanaugh, and a group of cooperative lay alumni, saw in 1908 that the Alumni Association needed the stimulus of constitutional control, regular meetings, an active program, and active leadership. 
It is to this program and leadership, during its 55 continuous years of build-
YOU CAN HELP 
NOTRE DAME 
BY 
Sending a personal contribution 
Submitting names of friends inter­ested in the University 
Advising N.D. Foundation Office if your company has a 'plan of giving' 
Informing University of your cor­poration's 'areas of interest' 
Remembering the University in your Will or Bequest 
Contributing gifts other than money 
(i.e. paintings, equipment, books, etc) 
Naming the University as a benefici­ary in your insurance policy 
Listing names and addresses of Foun­dations in your community 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION, 
NOTRE DAUE, INDIANA 
I 
To Fathers James Bums and Mat­thew Walsh, who found in the Univer­sity's first fund-raising effort the essen­tial relationship of organized alumni, and who immediately in 1923, estab­lished an Alumni Office, an Alumni Secretary, and an ALUMNUS maga­zine, must be given a segment of the success we are now heralding. 
And to the succession of officers and directors of the Alumni Association, through the Alumni Boards, who have 
NOW AVAILABLE TO ALUMNI Copies of the 1963 DOME may be pur­chased by all those interested. Due to an oversupply of DOMES, the 1963 yearbook is going on sale for $5.00 per copy. The 1963 DOME has been award­ed an Ail-American honor rating by The Associated Collegiate Press. Now, get a closer look at what's going on on our expanding campus. 
DOME BOX 392 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
guided and directed and expanded the 
Office, the staff, and the magazine, 
through war, depression, and progress, 
a very substantial amount of the ac­
complishment must be attributed. 
This is no small progress. As late as 
1940, the Alumni Association was 
struggling with a scattered membership 
of 10,000, an obsolete system of an­
nual dues, an independent and limited 
fiscal structure that approximated a 
total annual expenditure — office, staff, 
and magazine— of $15,000. Our Clubs 

were heroic but haphazard. Our Re­
unions were a frequently embarrassing 
appendage to the growing dignity of 
Commencement weekends. 
Now, in the bright reflected glow of Challenge I, the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame is demonstrated to be a mature, integral, substantial part of the University and its life. 
Our broad programs are rapidly achieving the proper goals of a distinct part of University life, an essential part of the Notre Dame pattern. 
We need not put away or even regret the joys, the fraternal instincts, the en­thusiasms of our past. Even then, a close look finds them surging around a maturity and a purpose that circum­stances could not imtil now implement. Rather, we should mellow all these good and desirable qualities in the new plateau of a stature we will never again 
lose, a new breadth and depth that is in itself a new basis of promise. 
NotTe Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
Needed, among 7.500,000 books, a 


Notre Dame Collection 
D
URING THE past Several years, a num­ber of alumni have voluntarily pre­sented copies of books written by themselves to your Alumni Secretar>' or to the Director 'of Libraries. As the gifts were received, the thought kept recurring that someday when the University of Notre Dame had adequate facilities, a determined and purposeful effort ought to be made to begin a collection of books written by alumni of the University. The benefits of such a collection would be numerous, and one of the most meaningful would be the educational impact of this col­lection on the students of the Universit\-. Undoubtedly, it would also be a source of pride to the former teachers of the alumni authors. 
One of the most delightful facilities of the new Memorial Library is the Treasure Room. It is beautifully and distinctively furnished. It has ^valnut paneling and wall to wall carpeting. It is quite proper that the Treasure Room is decorated in this manner because it will house the most rare and beautiful books and collections of the University libraries. The Treasure Room will also house the books of the Notre Dame collection. This collection will comprise books written by alumni authors, books writ-
by VICTOR A. SCHAEFER, Director of Libraries 
ten about the Universitj- of Notre Dame, and biographies of alumni. The books de­sired for this collection arc not only books of fiction, but professional books and techni­cal works, pamphlets, as well as manu­scripts, correspondence, research notes or anything that was concerned with the writ­ing of the particular work. 
The efforts of the alumni are also solicited to bring other desirable libtar)- materials to the Memorial Librarj-. Great libraries are the result of the attention and support of many. Perhaps, among the friends of the alumni, there are book collectors who could be persuaded to donate their collections to the Memorial Library. Furthermore, alumni who are attorneys can frequently counsel clients who have book collections to donate them to the University and take ad\'antage of the tax angle. On the other hand, book collections can be donated to the libraries as a deposit and given to the library as an 
outright gift on the death of the donor, thus 
enabling heirs to claim a charitable deduc­
tion in the settlement of the estate. 
The University libraries at Notre Dame are interested in books of all special fields regardless of age, because books in all areas are needed to build up the research collec­tions of the University libraries. At the mo­ment, the field of local Catholic histor)- is of special collecting interest, and this would include all t)-pes of material such as anni­versary histories of churches, parishes, reli­gious establishments, jubilees, etc. Nothing should be overlooked because the rarest book is sometimes found in a seemingly unimportant collection of books. 
If potential donors cannot be approached directly, the administration of the library will be happy to make the contacts. Please contact, Mr. Victor A. Schaefer, Director of Libraries, for any further information about the Program of Collections. 
CONVENTION WILL RETURN TO GRAND BAHAMA 
IT WILL BE off again to Grand Bahama Island, to the new Lucayan Beach Hotel next year for alumni attending the Second Annual Notre Dame International Convention in 1964. 
The convention is planned for April 24, 25 and 26. Plans have progressed to a point where convention officials expect to follow in the footsteps of last year's successful convention, held at West End, Grand Bahama Island. ,,;: 
The 1964 convention will be jointly sponsored by the Notre Danie Alumni Clubs of Miami, Fort Lauderdale and Palm Beach County. They offer an open invitation to every Notre Dame alum­nus throughout the country. 
Prices for the convention have been set at $118 per couple for three days and two nights at the smart resort hotel. This price in­cludes round-trip air fare on Mackey Airlines from West Palm Beach. 
Convention planners are pointing to an attendance of 500 for the weekend. They base their projections on the turnout of more than 250 last year, and the great success of the first international convention. 
The committee has been assured by the 1963 Universit>- repre­sentative, Ed "Moose" Krause, that he and his lovely wife, Elise, will return in 1964 with a large contingent of Notre Dame alumni from the Midwest 
The 252-room Lucayan Hotel is an ideal location for the 1964 convention, according to the committee. Every room and suite in the hotel will overlook the water after completion in December. In addition to its beach-front location, there are canal ^vays, a lake, and a yacht marina adjacent to the hotel. An 18-hoIe champion­ship golf course adjoins the modern hotel for use by convention delegates. 
For further information on the upcoming international conven­tion, write the Notre Dame Convention Headquarters, 100 East Las Olas Boulevard, Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 
6 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
Alumni Assn. President Oliver Hunter '43 (right) and the 1963 Vice-Presidents, (from left) John Dempsey '49, Patrick Dougherty '50, and William Fallon '37. 



A Look at the 'New Look' 
of the Board of Directors of Your Alumni Association 
 ballots are being tabulated for the 
A
s 
election of four new members to the 
Alumni Association Board of Directors, it 
would be well to review the organizational 
changes and accomplishments of that dy­
namic-but-little-heralded body over the past 
few years. 
The Alumni Board has become such an all-per\-ading influence in the affairs of the University and the Alumni -Association that its presence is seldom noticed — an in­visible force behind a tremendous mobiliza­tion of men, money and ideas in 50 scat­tered classes and nearly 200 alumni com­munities around the world. It is mentioned often enough — in the usual president's letter on the back cover of the .ALUMNUS, in the roster on the inside front cover, in editorials and columns and countless memos to club and class officers — but the work of its committees and the fantastic variety of activities in their purview are seldom apparent in dry accounts of meetings. 
For many years the Board met to con­sider the reports and recommendations of standing committees concerned only with problems of "housekeeping" or the internal organization of the .Association. Even in re­cent years — in the administrations of Pat Canny '28, Mike Layden '36, John O'Connor '38, etc. — organizational mat­ters were the principal consideration, al­though the problems were mounting astro­nomically with the "population explosion" in alumni membership and the alumni clubs. 
In these years, however, the Board took increasing cognizance of the identification of alumni with the University in the field, the need for the alumni to be informed of administrative policies and problems, and for the campus to be aware of alumni opinion and problems. 
This a\vareness led to the creation of new committee areas and enlargement of the study areas of existing committees un­der Walter Fleming '40 and Ambassador William Mahoney '38. 
Perhaps the best way to explain these changes is to call the roll of the committees: 
EXECUTIVE. The Executive Committee reports on all matters of the Board's mem­bership, organization and policy, appointing the other committees and recommending 
candidates for interim appointments to the 
Board. Its members arc the honorary presi­
dent (currently Ambassador Mahoney), the 
president (Oliver H. Hunter '43), three 
vice-presidents (John Dempsey '49, Patrick 
Dougherty '50, and William Fallon '37) 
and Executive Secretary James .Armstrong. 
It was this committee that recommended 
the changes recently adopted and described 
below. 
CLUB ACTIVITIES. Under the Club Vice-President, now Mr. Fallon, this com­mittee is concerned with the organization and activities of the alumni clubs, includ­ing the admission of new clubs to the system. The chairman also presides at Club Presidents Councils held at the University or regionally. He works closely with the .Alumni Office staff and particularly with the Alumni Field Secretary, Thomas Kernan '55, whose appointment last year vms the result of a Board recommendation. 
CLASS ACTIVITIES. The Class Vice-President, Mr. Dougherty, is chairman of a committee studying the officers and activity of alumni classes, especially class columns in the .ALUMNUS and class reunions. He presides at conferences of the class officers. 
FOUNDATION. .A third vice-president, currently Afr. Dempsey, is chairman of the Committee on Fund, Foundation and Gifts. He works closely with the Notre Dame Foundation staff and alumni volunteers on policies and procedures for the .Annual Fund and capital campaigns for the Uni­versity's development, such as the recendy completed, fantastically successful Chal­lenge I Program. His committee regularly reports to the Board on the progress of these fund appeals. 
ADMISSIONS. The Committee on Prep­aratory Schools and .Admissions has func­tioned for many years, since alumni have long been concerned with standards of selection and the admission of as many qualified students as possible. But with the increasing activity of alumni in inter­viewing and scholarship committees of the Notre Dame Clubs, the committee has steadily increased in importance. The cur­rent chairman, Philip Faccenda '51, regu­larly consults with the University's Director of Admissions, Rev. James Moran, C.S.C., and reports to the board on the activities and problems of the Admissions OfSce. 
PLACEMENT. Placement and Job Counseling, once the creation and sole re­sponsibility of the .Alumni .Association, is now a separate University department ad­ministering job contacts for all students and alumni under Rev. Louis Thornton, C.S.C. The current chairman, Peter Kernan, Jr., himself a specialist in job recruiting for the Ford Motor Company, consults with the director on the policies and needs of the department, which deals with representa­tives of corporations all over the U.S. Grad­uate and professional school placement, the responsibility of the deans and department heads, is also a subject of study. 
INTER-ALUMNI AFFAIRS. A commit­tee under the chairmanship of Vice-Presi­dent Dougherty reviews opportunities for contact and cooperation with the alumni of other institutions, usually social, civic or intellectual activities on the alumni club level. 
PUBLIC RELATIONS. One of the orig­inal standing committees, the Committee on Prestige and Public Relations was once principally concerned with the "image" presented to the public through the spot­lighting of distinguished alumni and the high academic purpose of the University in such events as Universal Notre Dame Night. It underwent a *'face-lifting" in the Fleming administration to catch up with current concepts of public relations, in­%'olving all facets of the University's opera­tion — administrative, athletic, fund rais­ing, etc. This involved consultation -with many departments — the Foundation, Pub­lic Relations, Public Information and .Ath­letic Publicity Offices — as well as with the Executive Vice-President. The recom­mendations of this committee were instru­mental in a reorganization of the public relations apparatus under a new Vice-Presi­dent of Public Reladons and Development, Rev. John Walsh, C.S.C. The committee, now under Mr. Kernan, continues to over-sec the public relations potential of U.N.D. Night, prominent alumni, etc. 
A later report will detail the work of other committees — Religion and Citizen­ship, Nominations, Budget and Finance, and such new committees as those on Ath­letics, Academics and Student Affairs. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, J963 7 
m 
•&^M 

RADIATION RESEARCH Building dedication m September featured the speakers shown on the left. Father Hcsburgh blessed the $2.2 million structure and presided at a convocation «-ith speeches by Dr. Gleim Seaborg (left), chairman of the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, and Dr. Frederick Seitz, president of the National Academy of Sciences. The convocation, at right, also featured (Lr.) Dean Frederick Rossini of the College of Science; Dr. Samuel Colville Lind of Oak Ridge, Teim., an-arded an honorary Doctor of Science degree as "the father of radiation chemistr}-" for pioneering work at the University of Alinnesota; Dr. James Franck of Durham, N.C., professor emeritus of ph>°sics at the U. of Chicago and Nobel Prize winner, also awarded an honorary degree as the founder of modem photochemistry, and Dr. Milton Burton, director of Notre Dame's Radiation Laborator)-. 

Alumni in the Forefront 
Three Notre Dame Men Cited at Convention For Their Contribution to Newman Apostolate 
Archbishop Hallinan 
AT THE RECENT national convention jt\.o f the NeuTnan Clubs of America, it is interesting to note tliat three Notre Dame men were singled out for their influence on religion in public higher education and made a promi­nent part of the program: Dr. George 
N. Shuster '15, not only for his service at Notre Dame but also for previous work as an author, administrator and college president; Archbishop Paul Hallinan '32, of Atlanta, long a New­man Club booster and now a leading voice of the 21st Ecumenical Council: and Rev. Richard Butler, O.P. '42^ present leader of the Newman chap­lains and author of a recent highly acclaimed book about religion on the campus. 

Declaring that the Index of Forbid­den Books has "little relation to tlie student mind today," Archbishop Halli­nan told delegates that the Index "may be changed, updated, modified or abol­ished altogether. 
"Whatever the outcome," he said, "it is to be earnestly hoped" that the dedsion will be taken in the spirit of Pope John's opening address to the Ecumenical Council, in which he said diat the Church today "prefers to make use of the medicine of mercy rather than that of severity" in dealing with error. 
Archbishop Hallinan said the Indax today "doss not touch the imiversity Ubrarj' on an intellectual plane. In fact, it does not touch anything at all on that level. 

"The list of named authors and named books is largely unknown to to­day's student, only the French novel­ists, certain English philosophers and a few other authors ever appearing on any college reading list," he said. 
"Even the proscription by categories does not concern the student as he looks over the highly pornographic content of the average paperback bookrack," he commented. 
Archbishop Hallinan said diat if the Index "disappears tomorrow," the duty to teach and foster truth will remain for Catholics. 
"We must honor the scholar who honestiy seeks trutli in his field, whether he is on our side or not, whether we like him or not, whether he likes us or not," he said. "Anything else is intel­lectual dishonest}'. 
"Our students must imbibe this re­spect for a scholarship from us," he continued. "The Church did not suffer when St, Paul walked among the intel­lectuals of Athens, when Augustine urged his pupils to love intelligence, when Aquinas investigated the philos­ophy of the Arabian, or when Father Montini read the works of Thomas Mann and Bergson with his students, 
"This is the vast burden that is ours, the task of consecrating the intellect to God," he declared, "It is difficult today because, although there are more educated minds than a century ago. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 

they are not educated in the things 
that pertain to God. 

"The good news of salvation has not 
had a good press. It would be a mis­
take to assume that all Catholic stu­
dents have Catholic minds." 

Archbishop Hallinan spoke of the 
need of awakening in the minds of 
students a "gaudium de veritate, the 
joy of finding truth." 

"This will be a far more effective 
tool than the Index, because the Index 
did not touch sins against the mind, 
which is God's own created instrument 
for truth," he said. 

He warned of a current tendency to 
"simony of the intellect." This form of 
simony, he said, is "the temptation of 

the educated man to sell one's mind 
for sordid gain or for popularity or for 
the coin of mediocre achievement or 
the perversion of other minds." 




NOTRE DAME BOOKS 
BEST FROM THE FARMERS' AL­MANAC. Edited by Ray Gcigcr '32. Doublcday, Garden City. N. Y. 286 pp., $3.50. 
Here is something that some of you have not seen in years and likely most of you have never seen: The ancient and honorable bible of Americana, The Farmers' Almanac. 
Don't dismiss this book of wisdom simply because you arc not a fanner. This pres­ent volume is not the Almanac as such, but Ray Geiger of Lewiston, Maine, present editor of The Almanac, has edited this "Best From The Farmers' Almanac" with discerning hoe, spade, and rake. 
If anyone remembers the old Almanacs hanging on a string near the kitchen stove out at Grandpa's on the farm, he will re­member the battery of information, and the bits of wisdom, humor, poetry and verse. In many a snowbound home, ye olde al­manac took the place of nonexistent movies, radio and television. 
Mr. Geiger here serves farmers and cit>' slickers, not weatherizing information, but what he captions Capsules of Wisdom, Terse Verse, Potpourri, Bits of Humor, and Beloved Poems. All these at one time or another, from 1818 when David Young started The Farmers' Almanac, have ap­peared on its characteristic newsprint pages. 
There are in this "speaker's handbook, or bedside anthology" unique definitions of such delicate items as boys and of gossip. There is sage advice on smoking in bed. You will be thrice rewarded too in learning how to bake a cake and roast a dozen birds one inside the other. 
The "Philom" following Ray Geigcr's name is a term popularized by Ben Franklin and means philosopher and mathematician. It has become a traditional title of almanac 

The 1963 John Henry Cardinal New­man Honor Society Award was pre­sented to George Shuster, assistant to the president of the University, for "ex­cellence in Christian education." 
In accepting the award Shuster, a former president of Hunter College, New York, said the Newman aposto­late is "the most important in the United States." 
Father Richard Buder, O.P., of Chi­cago, president of the chaplains' asso­ciation, said the group will seek to em­phasize unified action by the various groups within the Newman apostolate. 
Father Butler voiced optimism in an interview over indications during the convention of "a marked transition from a past tendency of these Catholic students to isolate themselves and merely organize themselves as a mutual protection club. 
editors. Geiger evidently revels in putting the "Best From The Farmers' Almanac" to­gether. We arc convinced that you will revel in the reading of it. 
—^VINCENT MCALOON '34 
BRIAN KELLY '33 sent this in to intro­duce his wife, the former Mary Louise Brilcy of Brian's native Detroit. Under the stage name I^ura Devon she has been stealing the "Richard Boone Show" as the femme fatale of the critically acclaimed repertory company on NBC-TV. Brian ap­
peared with her on stage in "Toys in the Attic" and recently shot the pilot film of a new TV series entitled "Flipper," having starred in two "private eye" thrill­ers and some ill-fated pilots. He also corrected three misstatements in a re­cent article based on network publicity: his Class is '33, not '37; he had only one year of law school at the University of Michigan; and his only football career was on the Farley Hall intramural team. 
"There has been more anxious dis­cussion and almost impatient impulse to enlarge the scope of this apostolic work and take positive steps toward the restoration of Christian culture on our college and university campuses," Father Butler said. 
He said the convention delegates manifested "a restless sense of urgency to go beyond the confinement of petty concerns toward a truly Catholic concern for the campus community, the civic community and the world community." 
The Dominican predicted that the next 20 years will see a tremendous growth of the Newman ajjostolate. He said the Church in America "must face and deal with" the fact of half a million Catholic students now on secular cam­puses and the expectation that this number will rise to t\vo million in the next two decades. 
THE REVIEW OF POLITICS, Twenty-fifth Anniversary Issue. Edited by M. A. Fitzsimons. University of Notre Dame. 173 pp., 51.50. 
The October issue of Notre Dame's quar­terly political review contains some articles of special interest to alumni. In "Profile of Crisis: The Review of Politics, 1939-1963," Professor Fitzsimons writes: 
"The first issue of The Review of Politics was published in 1939, the year of Hitler's attack on Poland. {The Review was estab­lished and edited, until his death in 1954, by Waldemar Gurian, a distinguished scholar of Bolshevism and politics. His prin­cipal Notre Dame collaborators in editing The Review are Professor Frank O'Malley, who has served as an editor since 1939, an inspiring student and teacher of the phi­losophy of literature; Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., a professor of philosophy with far-ranging social interests; F. A. Hermens, pro­fessor of politics and an authority on pro­portional representation and constitutional government; and the eminent American Church historian, Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, G.S.C., who has ser\'ed as managing editor for twenty years. The author of this article, 
M. A. Fitzsimons, professor of histroy, asso­ciated with The Review since 1942, was appointed editor in 1955) The new maga­zine, thus, appeared at the end of one his­torical period, the interwar years, and at the beginning of the new age initiated by the Second Worid War. . . . 
"In this situation the editors resolved upon certain features and policies of The Review. First of all, the journal was to be directed to composing 'a ne^v, clear world-order,' in effect, to the unfolding of a cul­ture, drawing on the past but extending to new and deeper reaches. In this endeavor The Review's work would be focused on two vital centers: the personality of man, and the communal life of mankind, each facing a formidable array of destroyers. From this arose the emphasis on 'the image of man,* man as composed of body, mind, and spirit, man as a person and man the social animal." 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 9 

WHY DO I TRAVEL? 
by FRANK J. McGINNlS, '24 

The author, recently retired as an executive of the Ford Motor Company, has a new career as founder of "Words & Pictures," 3802 Crestlake Drive, Birmingham, Mich. He now tours the world producing color films and lec­turing on his travels. He is iww mak­ing bookings for the 1964-65 lecture season on two of his productions, "Glo­rious Greece Today" and "Europe's Fabulous Rivieras." 
W
HAT ARE the profits of travel? I think Daniel, the ancient prophet, put it in a capsule when he said, "Many shall run to and fro and knowledge shall be increased." 
FRANK McGINNIS and his w-ife Mary photograph the ruins of the magnificent Parthenon in Athens' famed Acropolis. 
To me, knowledge is the great re­ward of travel; many kinds of knowl­edge. Travel gives you knowledge to check your dreams by, knowledge of the many beauties man has created. 
For instance, in Athens from the top of your hotel in S)'ntagma square, in one sweep of your eyes, you can see bodi today's modem buildings and the incomparable Parthenon, built in 438 B.C., atop the famed Acropolis. For enduring beauty I'm sure you'll buy the Parthenon. 
You will gain knowledge that makes the ver)' rocks come alive when you find yourself sitting in the seat-prints of history. When we were in the Agora, meeting place of the ancients, our guide said, "You are sitting on the rock where they say Socrates drank the 
fatal hemlock." We arose with alacrity 
and a new respect for these rocks. 
You learn of the origin of great ideas 

and how they came into being. . . . 
For instance, when we were in 

Olympia, site of the legendary statue 
of Zeus, they told us it was an ancient 
Greek named Philo who created the 
concept of the seven wonders of the 
ancient world. He created the idea be­
cause he was a publicity man and he 
was given the job of stimulating tour­
ism in the eastern Mediterranean. 
In Rhodes, that lush, semitropical, tourist's paradise, you see the beautiful medieval castle of the Knights of St. John of Jerusalem whose story gives you knowledge of the violent sweeps of history and the vicissitudes of men and nations. This "strongest fort in the world" was built by the Crusaders in 1389, successfully defended against the Turks for 133 years, lost to them through treachery in 1522, grabbed by the Italians in 1912 and completely restored at tremendous expense by Mus­solini who wanted to make it a sum­mer villa and tourist attraction, finally in 1948 awarded to the Greeks with the other Dodecanese islands. 
Most of all, I've confirmed my be­lief that this is still a big, wide, won­derful world we live in and I am a very fortunate refugee from the rat race now able to seek out the interest­ing sights and sounds of the world and bring them back for the information and entertainment of my fellow Amer-
T
HE GROTTO at Notre Dame is a place of memories and prayers. The canopy of trees, digging their roots into the unhewn rock, is the proudest grove on the campus. And rightly so. These trees are a garland of green on a crown of rocks. They have lived up to all the beautj' of Kilmer's poem .. . as all trees must. But these have done more. They have listened to May songs; they have watched flickering vipl lights; they have stood as silent sentinels while an.xious prayers and burdened hearts lifted hopeful eyes to a Lady. The trees of the Grotto — if they could speak — would speak only in a whisper. 
It's been a long time since that day in 1876 when old Father Sorin began work on the Grotto. The bearded black-robe had visited Lourdes in 1873. It was there he got the idea to build a facsimile of that famous shrine. In those days it was a small campus. Father 
Ruins of the Temple of Athena at Delphi. Sorin chose for the Grotto one of the 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
%Ji.. 
1 •'«-;, 
M 

.^^^Iki^'j^^'^ '.^^f^l^^t 
.fcB-fe'i^fcSiSSSftSJBItttf 
MAN and the MOMENT 
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41 
most beautiful spots, a wooded dell within the shadow of the Church and the Dome. A natural mound leans down from the Church and leads to the lake. This mound was the spot chosen. That the choosing of the site of die Grotto was not a haphazard matter is shown by this excerpt from the Scholastic of August 20, 1896: "Just behind the Presbyter)' is a little wooded dell which has always been regarded as one of the charming spots of Notre Dame. For past years the pilgrims from Kalamazoo and Jackson have chosen it as a resting place after their long journey; it has been a favorite walk with visitors at all times; and during the spring and autumn those who live at Notre Dame seek it instinctively for the coolness and attractiveness." 
Even though work on the edifice was begun in 1876 it was not completed until 20 years later. The delay was caused by lack of funds. It was largely through the contribution of Father Thomas Carroll of Oil City, Pennsyl­vania, that the work was completed. The Grotto was blessed on August 5, 1896 by the genial giant of Gettysburg, Father Corby, who was Provincial Su­perior. 
Much has been written of this won­derful spot at Notre Dame because the Grotto is very much a part of every Notre Dame man. What comes to mind now is Doctor Tom Dooley's last letter to Notre Dame. It was written in Hong Kong in early December of 1960. His cancer was acting up. They had him flat on his back with plaster, sand bags, and hot water bottles. The entire letter, written in pain, is worth repeating but I \vdll quote only a few paragraphs: 
"I realize the e.xtemal symbols that surround one when he prays are not important. The stark wooden cross on 
THE GROnO 
an altar of boxes in Haiphong with a tortured priest . . . the magnificence of the Sacred Heart Bernini altar . . . they are essentially the same. Both are sym­bols. It is the Something else there that counts. 
"But Just now . . . and just so many times, how I long for the Grotto. Away from the Grotto, Dooley just prays. But at the Grotto, especially now when there must be snow everywhere and the lake is ice glass and that triangular fountain, on the left is frozen solid and all the priests are bundled in their too-large, too-long black coats and the students wear snow boots .. . if I could go to the Grotto now, then I think I could sing inside. I could be full of faith and poetry and loveliness and know more beauty, tenderness and compassion. This is soggy sentimentalism, I know. Cold prayers from a hospital bed are just as pleasing to God as more youthful pray­ers from a Grotto on the lid of night. 
"But like telling a mother in labor, 'It's okay, millions have endured the labor pains and survived happy . . . you will too.' It's consoling . . . but doesn't lessen the pain. Accordingly, knowing prayers from here are just as good as from the Grotto doesn't lessen my gna\ving, yearning passion to be there." 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 11 
Notre Dame Law School 
ENROUMENT 
There are 170 students enrolled for 
1963-64. Last year there were 151. 
The entering class numbers 76 as 
against 66 last year. 
LAW HONORS BANQUET 

The featured speaker at the Law Honors Banquet in the spring will be Walter E. Craig, elected President of the American Bar Association in August and since then nominated by the Presi­dent to be United States District Judge. Judge Craig's visit will mark the seventh consecutive year in which the Law Honors Banquet has been ad­dressed by the President of the Ameri­can Bar Association. 
MOOT COURT 

Chief Judge Tuttle and Judge Rives of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit were honored at the final argument of this year's annual Moot Court Competition. These two distinguished jurists, along with United States District Judge Eschbach of Fort Wayne, constituted the Court hearing the argument on that occasion. 
GRAY'S INN 

An active schedule has been ar­ranged for the coming year. Among the speakers who will appear at the informal oflF-campus meetings are Chief Judge Charles S. Desmond of the New York Court of Appeals and retired Justice Charles Whittaker of the Su­preme Coiut of the United States. Sub­jects which will be discussed include the use of computers in legal research. 
NATURAL LAW FORUM 

The annual meeting of die Board of Editors of the Forum was held on November 1 and 2 at the Institute for Policy Studies in Washington, D.G. In connection with the meeting a series of lectures was delivered by Professor Den­nis V. Cowen, University of Chicago Law School, author of Foundations For Freedom and advisor to the Govern­ment of Basutoland on the drafting of a constitution for that countr)'. 
In addition to Professor Noonan of our Faculty, who is Editor-in-Chief, the Advisory Board includes the following distinguished scholars: Professor Ver­non J. Bourke, St. Louis University; 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
Mr. George W. Constable, Baltimore; Professor William J. Curran, Law-Medicine Research Institute, Boston University; Professor Da\dd Daube, O.Kford Universit)', England; Professor 

A. P. d'Entreves, Turin University, Italy; Professor Carl J. Friedrich, Har­vard University; Professor Lon L. Full­er, Law School of Harvard University; Professor E. Adamson Hoebel, Univer­sity of Minnesota; Professor Iredell Jen­kins, University of Alabama; Professor Harry W. Jones, Columbia University School of Law; Professor Wilber G. Katz, Universit)' of AVisconsin Law School; Provost Edward H. Levi, Uni­versity of Chicago: Professor Antonio de Luna, University of Madrid, Spain; Professor Myres S. McDougal, Yale University Law School; Professor F. S. 
C. Northrop, Yale University Law School; Professor Adolph Portmaim, University of Basel, Suitzerland; Professor H. A. Rommen, Georgeto\vn University; Professor Philip Selznick, Center for the Study of Law and So­ciety, University' of California at Berke­ley; Professor John Wild, Yale Univer­sity; Professor Joseph P. Witherspoon, University of Texas School of Law; and Professor Erik WoU, University of Frei­burg, Germany. 
NOTRE DAME U W ASSOCIATION 

At the annual meeting of the Notre Dame Law Association the following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Mr. Frederick K. Baer, South Bend, Honorary President; Mr. Mau­rice J. Moriarty, Chicago, President; Mr. George N. Tompkins, New York Git)', Vice-President; and Mr. Ray­mond J. Broderick, Philadelphia, Secre­tary-Treasurer. 
In addition, the following are serv­ing as directors: Mr. Valentine B. Deale, Washington; Mr. Peter F. Fla­herty, Pittsburgh; Mr. Robert P. Gor­man, Newark; Mr. Camilla F. Gravel, Jr., Alexandria, La.; Mr. Burton M. '^ Greenburg, St. Louis; Mr. John J. Reidy, Sr., Cleveland; Mr. Ralph G. < Schulz, Milwaukee; Mr. Joseph C. < Spalding, Oklahoma City; and Mr. Timotiiy E. Kelley, Dallas. 
A very successful luncheon meeting • of the Association was held in Detroit on September 24 in connection with ^ the Great Lakes Regional Meeting of ^ the American Bar Association. Mr. John T. Higgins, a member of the Law Advisory Council, who was in charge of arrangements, presided and Dean O'Meara spoke. 
Mr. John J. Reidy arranged and pesided over a luncheon meeting of the Notre Dame Law Association at the Cleveland meeting of the American Bar Association held in November. Dean O'Meara was the speaker. 
CONGRATULATIONS 

Assistant Dean Broderick represented the Notre Dame Law School at cere­monies honoring Mr. Earl F. Gruber of Frankfort, Indiana, who has practiced law more than 50 years. Mr. Gruber wjis graduated from The Law School in 1905 and is still going strong. AVe •• wish him well. 
LAW ADVISORY COUNCIL 

Honorable William B. Lawless of the New York Supreme Court, '44L, has • been appointed to the Law Advisory Council. He is a welcome addition to the Council. ' 
FAMILIi^R NAMES? 
Our Alumn! Office has just received the new Directory o( the Indiana Priests ProWnce, C.S.C.. ) 
One vi>-id reaction comes to me as I read it. On the site of the old Novitiate, north of the old Boat House, adjoining the new Moreau Seminary, is Holy Cross House, attractive sanctuary for those Holy Cross priests who have contributed their life-work span to the Congregation, or whose further work indicates a need for temporary retirement. ' 
Alumni frequently remark about the absence of familiar faces and names on the campus. Holy Cross House contains many men who arc away from the beaten path, but whose footsteps shaped it, who are away from the pressures of their vocation, but never away from the traditions. 
Among the men now living in Holy Cross House, you may find old friends who would add much to your Christmas remembrance, for example: 
Rev. Victor Boisvert Rev. Francis Bridenstinc Rev. Frank C Brown Rev. Thomas E. Burke Rev. Charles J. Corcoran Rev. Patrick H. Dolan Rev. Edward J. Finnegan Rev. Cornelius J. Hagerty Rev. Joseph A. Heiser Rev. John J. Hennessy Ucv. Arthur J. Hope Rev. John C. Kelley Rev. ThiHnas A. Lahey Rev. Archibald McDowell Rev. William McNamara Rev. Hugh MacCauley Rev. D(mald MacGregor Rev. Joseph A. Maguirc Rev. William Minnick Rev. Edgar Misch Rev. Michael A. Mulcaire Rev. James A. O'Halloran Rev. Maurice E. Powers Rev. Philip Schaetf Rev. Matthew Schumacher 

—JEA 

By Warren Clayton Stephens 
Sfcwif 
Secretary, Class of 1964 
theStud^*^^ 
SUMMER LATIN AMERICAN APOSTOLATE CONTINUES; GRADING CHANGES, VARIED EVENTS MARK FAU TBtM 
T
HE COUNCIL of the International Lay Apostolate is primarily con­cerned with tlie role of the lay aposto­late in the Church. For the second summer in a row members of Notre Dame's CILA spent the summer work­ing in Peru and Me.>:ico. 
The work in these countries was very diversified as it ranged from such elementar)' chores as passing out bread and milk to the building of homes. Some of the boys taught classes, premedical students worked in clinics, and one stu­dent was even called upon to deliver a baby. 
While spending most of their time working with the common people, the members of CILA had the opportunity to talk with political leaders, business­men, and priests. It was generally agreed that this trip gave our boys a better insight into the problems of the area. 
Measuring the success of such an adventure is an impossible task, but the members of the trip concede tliat it awoke in them a greater comprehension of our role and duties in society as Christians. 
The academic council has at long last adopted the 4-point system conventional at most colleges and universities throughout the country'. It was realized that as hard and as often as the Uni­versity tried to explain our 6-point system to other schools there was still a great deal of confusion and misunder­standing. Graduate schools tended to read their own interpretations into our old system. To avoid confusion in the future the 4-point system is now in effect. Under this system a 4 is an A; 3 a B; 2 a C; 1 a D. To graduate a student needs a cumulative average of 2. The dean's list level is now 3.25, and to graduate with honors you must maintain this average. To graduate magna cum laude a student must have a 3.5, and to graduate maxima cum laude he must have a 3.75. 
Under the auspices of Professor Paul 
C. Bartholomew of the political science department, a mock Republican con­vention will be held on the campus. Since it is a foregone conclusion that President Johnson will be renominated by the Democratic Party, only the Young Republicans will have a chance to voice their preferences. Delegates from each of the 50 states will demon­strate as if this were the real convention. Of course, some of the states \vill come up with their favorite son candidates, but the leading contenders, on campus as in the papers, are Governor Nelson Rockefeller of New York and Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona. AVith an air of conser\'atism on tlie campus. 
^. \ 
1 -Student '^r^^-.i volunteers help a ^PK^ivl 
Peruvian nun in one phase of the CILA 
vtei program in Latin America 
' 1 i 
over the summer vacation. 
P 
especially among the Young Republi­
cans, it looks like Barry will be the 
choice of the Republicans on campus. 
The weekend of Nov. 3 was Home­coming. On Friday night Father Hesburgh kicked off the festivities as principal speaker at the pep rally. Coach Hugh Devore and Ail-American end Jim Kelly also spoke. Later the Homecoming Dance, with the crown­ing of the Queen, initiated social activi­ties. The traditional hall decoration contest, a pre-game parade and a con­cert by the popular New Christy Minstrels took place on Saturday. All these social events, together with the Navy game, had interest at a fever pitch as the big weekend drew near. Captain Bob Lehman, Tom McDonald and sidelined Don Hogan were among the other pep rally speakers keeping up the spirit and enthusiasm through a gruelling football season. 
The Senior Trip this year was sched­uled to take us to Michigan State, where for the last time in our four years we would challenge the Spartans. The senior class arr«mged transportation, accommodations, and a party with some of the coeds from MSU. From all in­dications almost the entire senior class planned on invading East Lansing, and it should have been a weekend that no one will soon forget. 
And speaking of trips, over 100,000 college students were expected in New York over the Thanksgiving vacation, about 3,000 of these from N.D., as this was the student trip. Every\vhere on campus you heard students asking one another if they planned on hitting New York for the big weekend. Of course, of primary importance was the game wth Syracuse on Thanksgiving Day. But there was also the fascination of the big city. Hope all you alumni in the New York area remembered that the game begins at noon. See you there. 
Clay Stephens is a senior economics major from Burlingame, California, and has won three football monograms, at end. For his first column, written during intensive football drills. Clay acknowledges the help of Jack Stanley, a classmate from Binghamton, N. Y. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 13-' 
of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ALABAMA 

John A. O'Brirn, Jr.. '51, 1465 Linda \Tsta Dr., Regent Forest, Birming­ham, Ala. 
ALASKA John S. Hdlcnthal, '35, Box 941, Ancfaooge, Alaska. 
ARIZONA Photnvc—John J. Schoutcn, '48, 2I2D 
E. Palm Ln., Phoenix 6, Arizona. Tucson—Timothy R. King, '37, 5651 
E. Scarlett. 
ARKANSAS 

Fort Smith—Jama A. Gilkcr, '48, 3715 Free Feny Rd., Fort Smith, Aril. 
Lttlle Rock—James E. Madigan, '43, 4617 Crest«ood, Little Rock, .Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 

BakersfieU—Kchsird L. Bamett, '56, 630 Golden State Huy., Bakeisficid, Calif. 
C^nlrii/—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Sccre­tar>), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Calif. 
Greater Long Beach Area—Francis E. Conaty, '43, 3742 West 17Dth St., Tormnce, Calif. 
Los Angeles—Robert L. Gen-als, *55, 3219 Rosewood .Ave., Los Angeles 66, CaliL 
Northern—Daniel J. Gentile, Jr., '48, 2932 Hillside Dr., Burlingame, Calif. Orange County—F. Steve Finan, '37, 2864 Monroe, Anaheim, Calif. 
Sacramento—AUrcd A. Kaelin, '55, 2784 Harkness St., Sacramento 18, Calif. 
5iiu Diego—Chrii Cohan, '54, 6080 Cowles Mtn., La Mesa, Calif. 
San Fernando Valley — Thomas W. Dunlay, '52, 14944 Napa St., Van Nuj-s, Calif. 
San Gabriel Valley— Vrjliam T. Huston, '51, 612 S. Floiver St., Suite 700, Los Angeles 17, Calif. 
COLORADO 

Colorado Springs — Otto K. Hilbcrt, '54. 640 Dove Place, Colorado Springs. Co!o. 
Denver—James M- Coughlin, '57, 3480 E. Quarles Dr., Littleton, Colorado. 
CONNECTICUT 

Connecticut Valley — Robert L. Mc-Goldrick, '56, Old County Highway, East Gianby, Conn. 
Fairfield County—William Mulrenan, '37, 100 Tidemill Teir., Fairfield, Conn. 
Nttugatuck—^Domenic A. Narducd, Jr., '52, 44 Beacon Manor Rd., Naugatuck, Conn. 
New Haven—Dr. Robert T. Warner, '53, 1960 ^Vhitncy Ave., Hamden 17, Conn. 
DELAWARE 

Richard P. Haiidnc, '55, 2219 Heam Rd., Fairfax, Wilmington 3, Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBL\ 
Albert A. Virostek, Jr., '56, 7707 Granada Drive, Washington 34, D.C. 
FLORIDA Central—Joseph M. KfcNamaia, M7, 
P.O. Box 5547, Orlando, Fla. 

Fort Lauderdale—Donald K. Dorim, '53. 6241 S.W. 5th Ct., PlantaUon, Fla. 
Greater Miami—Raymond Popp, '38, 444 N.E. 50th Terrace, iCami, Fla. 
North Florida—^John F. Corrigan, '53, 1200 Barnctt, Nat*!. Bank BIdg., Jacksonville 2, Fla. 
Palm Beach County—^Dr. Bernard J. O'Hara, '48, 503 29th St., West Palm Beach, Fla. 
Pensacola—^John L. McCormack, '49, 
P.O. Box 8, Pensacola, Fla. St. Petersburg-Tampa — Mark E. 
Moonej-, '26, 4525 Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGIA 
.^ifanw—Robert F. Hochman, '50, 210 North Ave., N.W., Apt. 31, At­lanta 13, Ga. 
IDAHO 
P. Xnchael Kohout, '59, 6820 Folk 
Drive, Boise, Idaho. Idaho Falls —Jsma M. Brady, '29, 
P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS Aurora — Richard D. Scliiller, '56, 998 Pabce St., Aurora, 111. Central Illinois — Thomas Hamilton, Jr., '53, 3349 S. Fifth St., Spring­field, ni. 
Chicago—Dr. Arthur L. Conrad. '35, 3601 North Harding, Chicago 18, 111. 
Decatur—io\m F. Foy, '35, 1416 W. Decatur St., Decatur, 111. Eastern Illinois—^J. Francis McGough, '41, 1322 Walnut, Danville, III. Fox Valley — George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, 111. yode/—Robert Xt. Walsh, '43, 2609 Dougall Rd., Joliet, 111. 
Kankakee Valley — Thomas J. Rey­nolds, '54, 343/- S. Winfield, Kankakee, 111. 
McHcnry County—Donald C. Frcund, '55, 455 Brock St., Cr\-slal Lake, 111. 
Peoria—John R. Poueis, '53, 2910 Weslport Rd., Peoria, HI. Boci/orif—Albert Carroll '22, 206 W. State St., Rockford, lU. 
Rock River Valley — Luke R. Morin, '53, 523 N. Dixon Ave., Dixon, III. Southern Cook County — Robert N. Caffarelli, '55, 2633-E Hawthorne 
Lane, Flossmoor, 111. INDIANA Calumet District — David W. Ogren, '53, 5946 Hohman Ave., Hammond, Ind. Eastern Indiana—^James F. Hall'ijan. *32, 303 W>-scr Bldg., Muncie, Ind. Elkhart — Austin Gildea, '30. 5 St. Joseph Manor, Elkhart, Ind. Evanrjille—D. Patrick O'Danicl, '59, 3110 East Giun St., E\-ansville, Ind. 
Fort iVayne — Robert R. Luther, '49, 443 Kinnaird Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Grant County — Eugrne A. Canipa­nale, '50, Lincoln BU*d., Clarion, Ind. 
Indianapolis—^Hon. John &L Rj'an, *41, 5640 Washington BK-d.. Indi­anapolis 20, Indiana. 
Michigan City — Edward J. Dw>-er, '50, 2200 Oriole Trail, Long Beach, Michigan City, Ind. 
St. Joseph l'a//o--Joscph F. Oiilon, '44. 2615 Marine St., South Bend, Ind. 
Terre Haute — Bernard Burdick, 1728 Crau'foid St., Tcrre Haute, Ind. JVabask VaSey—James W. Glaser, '50, 
P.O. Box 59, Lafa>-ette, Ind. 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
IOWA BuHington — Ed**-ard W. Daily, '33, 403 Court St., Bm^tngton, lou'a. Cedar Rapids—A. James Murray, '60, 3701 Kencrest Drive, N.E., Cedar Rapids, low-a. Des Moines—^ul C. Eidc, *52, 403 Securities BIdg., Des Moines 9, Iowa. Dubuque—Rev. William Kunsch, '37, Our Lady of Seven Dolors Rectory, Festina, lou-a. Sioux-Land — Raymond B. Duggan, '43, 3244 Jackson, Sioux City 4, Iowa. 
Tri-Cities (Davenport^ Rock Island, Moline, E. Moline) — Robert C. Coryn, '52, 206 Essex Lane, Dav­enport, lou-a. 
KANSAS 

Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. ^cftna—John C. Browne, *51, 5th & Court Sts., Clay Center, Kansas. Wichita—GcOTSc A. Schwan, '25, 500 Orpheum Bldg., Wchita 2, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY 

Romano L. Mazzoli, '54, 415 Eastern Parlnv-ay, Louisville, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 

Nevi Or/eani—Pierre V. Miller, '59, 911 Perc MaKIuette Bldg., New-Orleans 12, Louisiana. 
Northern Louisiana—George J. Des­pot, '45, 517 Market, Shreveport, 
La. 
MAINE 

J. Paul Scully, Jr.. '41, 134 Collage St., Lcwiston, Maine. 
MARYLAND 

Baltimore — William J. Kcan*, '54. 412 North Bend Rd., Baltimore 29, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS Berkshire County — Frank B. Kellv, '18, 226 .Main St., Lee, .Mass. 
Boston—Cornelius Fowler, '47, 44 Gailord Street, Melrose 76, Mass. Pioneer Valley—Daniel J. O'Connell, 
'22, 11 P>-nchone Rd., Holyoke, Ma-s. MICHIGAN 
Battle Creek—Raymond R. Allen, '40, 409 Orchard PL, Battle Creek, Mich. 
Berrien County — Dr. Paul Leonaid, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, NUes, Mich. 
Blue Water District — William L. Wlson, '42, 4080 Giatiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. 
Z)<rar6or7i—George C. Ball, '49, 7746 Orchard, Dearborn, Mich. 
fle/roi(—John R. Panelli, '49, 22750 West 8 Mile Rd., Detroit 19, Mich. Flint — Walter G. Nagel, '56, 1921 
Castle Lane, Flint, ifich. Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn, '40, Wright & Zinn, ^Cchaels BIdg., Ironwood, Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
— James G. Xachteball, '51, 1031 Truxton, N.E., Grand Rapids, ^^ch. 
Hiawathaland — Donald T. Trottier, '44, 604 Ludlngton St., Escatiaba, XDch. Jackson — Cyril J. Hartman, '23, 612 Webb St., Jackson, Mich. 
Kalamazoo — Joseph O'Keefe, '44, O'Keefe Motor Sales, 433 W. Water St., Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Lansing — Bernard J. Mayotle, *50, 1130 Hitcliing Post, E. Lansinir, Midi. 
Monroe—Hugh J. Laughna, '40, 1587 , Rivcn*ie\v, Monroe, Mich. Muskegon — James Morse, '57, 2337 Vincent Rd., Muskegon, Mich. Saginaw Valley —- Gerald E. Carroll, '46, 2124 Sixth St., Bay City, Mich. Top of Michigan — Edirard L. Molo-i ney, '17, 416 East State St. Che-bo>'gan, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 
Tuin Cities — John F. Clifford. '38, 984 .Ashland Ave., St. Paul, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI 
William H. Mller, '30, 755 Gillespie PI., Jackson, Nfiss. 
MISSOURI 
Kansas City—George J. Higgins, '53, c/ o Employers Sfutual of Wiscon­sin, 210 W. Tenth St., Kansas City, Mo. 
St. Louis — Herrnan L. Kriegshauscr, '54, 11700 Scrcma Dr., St. Louis 31, Mo. 
MONTANA 
Bernard Gnuney, *43, 906 — 1 Ave., Helena, Montana. 
NEBRASKA Omaha and Council Bluffs—James A. Buckley, '53, 4315 Shiriey, Omaha, ' Neb. 
NEW JERSEY ^ Central — Thomas F. Kenneally, '30, Box 257, Middlcbush, N.J. New Jersey Shore — George A. Baris-' dllo, Jr., '44, 416 Btirlington Ave., Bradley Beach, N.J. New /cMo^Harr>- Durkin. '53, 24 ^ Branford Place, Newark, N.J. South Jersey — James B. Carson, '56, ^ 624 Clinton Ave-, Haddonfield, N.J. 
NEW MEXICO Richard R. Everroad, '41, 2323 Mor­row Rd., N.E., Albuquerque, N.^L 
NEW YORK ^(6nny—Frank E. O'Brien, '58, 99 Brookline Ave., Albany, N.Y. Bii#a/o — Robert C. Weber, '49, 103 Colony Ct., Buffalo 26, N.Y. 
Crn/rof—James F. Walter, '48, 101 Merman Dr., Syracuse, N.Y., 13214. 
Golden Circle—James F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. 
Mid-Hudson Valley—Bnan C. O'Neill, '56, Titusville Road, Rt. No. 2, Poughkeepsic, N.Y. 
Mohawk Valley — L. Daniel Callan, '49, 62 Pearl St., Nov Hartford, N.Y. 
New York City — Edward B. Fitzpat­rick, Jr., '54, 333 Emory Rd., Mineola, N.Y. 
Rochester — James S. Doyle, *54, 19 East Ave., Honeoye Falls, N.Y. Schenectady—Robert B. Fiorkowski, '54, 9 Oak HiU Dr., Scotia 2, N.Y. Syracuse—See "Central New York." 
•* 
* 

• ^ 
«' \ . 
^ > 
*. 

^1•> 
Southern Tier—Frank F. 0*Bricn, La Cratst—DotaSd F. Sieger, '52, 139 '34, 201 Federation Bldg., Elmira, S. 11th St., La Croise, Wise 
OKLAHOMA TENNESSEE 
Chattanooga — Edu-ard F. Da\Ts, '43, Oklahoma Ci/J>—John A. Hobbs, '55, 
N.Y. 506 Barrington, Signal Mo-jntain, JforiS—Augustui H. Songc. '27, 102 
2529 N.W. 51, Oklahoma Qty 12, 
Tcnn. S. Prospect St., MerrUI, Wisc-
Triple Cities — Joseph P. Gallou-ay, Okla. '51. 29 Norman Rd. (MR97), Tufca—Marion J. Blake, '33, 709 Oil 
Memphis—John M. Reynolds, '56, 409 Mitwaukee—Thaaai L. Mulcahy, '57, Binghamton, N.Y-Capital Bldg., Tulsa, Okk>. Cecilia Dr., Afemphis, Tcnn. 7349 N. Lombardy Rd., Milwaa­kee 17, Wise 
Northwest Wisconsin—Ben M. Siri* 
OREGON TEXAS 
NORTH CAROLINA anni, Jr., '60, 229 McKinley Ave., 
H. Paul Netttnan, '55, 13145 S.E. 2)s//ar — Donald R. Harris, '58, 4225 
Donald J. Kclscy, '48, 1115 West-Eau Claire, Wise. 
Kuehn Rd., Milwaukie 22, Oregon. Glenwood, Dallas 5, Texas. 
ridge Rd., Greensboro, N.C. South Central—Bemaxd S. Mnirarlfi, 
m P<uo—Edw^ird T. Jennings, '53, 312 OH«a Circle, El Paso, Texas. 
'30, 5400 Flamingo Rd., Madison, 
PENNSYLVANIA 
Wise

Houston — Alfred C. DeCrane, Jr., 
NORTH DAKOTA Central Pennsylvania—Dr. George W. Southeastern — Edwin E. Raymond
'53, 4939 Valkcith, Houston 35, William Daner, '53, 1106 S. Highland 
Katter, '41, U.S. Bank Bldg., Texas. Jr., '49, 2820 21 St., Radne, MOsc Acres, Bismarck, N.D. Johnstown, Pa. Midland-Odessa — John L- O'Hem, £ri«—James P. Lc>-don, '49, 268 Hen­'37, 1001 W. 25, Odessa, Texas. 
WYOMING 

Rio Grande Valley—Robert Aziz, '49, 
ley Road, Philadelphia 51, Pa. 
Patrick H. Meenan, '49, Kiidwest 1205 W. Elizabeth St., Brownsville, 
OHIO //arruiurj—Donald R. Meek, '30, 520 Bldg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 
Texas. Akron—^Jaincs E. Murphy. '53, 654 Park Ave., New Cumberland, Pa. San Antonio—William E. Lamm, '32, ClifTsidc Dr., .Mcroii, Ohio. Lehigh Valley—Ercalo J. Spinosa, '57, 321 Eleanor x\vc., San Antonio, FOREIGN CLUBS  Confon—Robert L. Joliet, '51, 4510 Texas. 
1124 Kearney St., Allentown, Pa. Bengalt India—Rev. John W. Kane, Yale Ave., N.W., Canton 9, Ohio. 
Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, UTAH C.S.C., '24, Moreau House, 28 Zin­Cincinnati—J. Barr>' Saragc, '54, 1704 '41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, dahahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
Don J. Roney, '58, 320 East Fourth, 
Kingsw-ay, Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Pa. Salt Lake City 8, Utah. Canada — Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, Cleveland—}mcp\\ E. Sotak, Jr., '40, 460 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. 
Philadelphia—Jamzs P. Lcydon, 268 
 3340 Riimson Rd., Cleveland VIRGINIA Chile — Rev. Francis A. Provenzano, Henley Rd., Philadelphia 51, Pa. 

Heights, 18, Ohio. 
C.S.C., '42, St. George's College, 

Leo F. Burke, '44, 900 Bbnton Ave., 
Columbus — John J. Dilenschneider, Pittsburgh — Donald W. Bebenek, '52, Aven, Pedro de Valdii-ia 1423, San­Richmond, Va. 
'53, 2555 Ber%vyn Rd., Columbus 1513 Bcrgcr Bldg., Pittsburgh 19, tiago, Chile. 
Tidewater—mUip L. Russo, '49, 8033 
 21, Ohio. 

Pa. Wedgewood Dr., Norfolk, Va. Ecuador—Joha Moeller, '47, P.O. Box Z)oj/on—Patrick J. Foley, '54, 501 Scranton — C. Richard Maishall, '51, 213, Quito, Ecuador. Third Xat'l Bldg., Dayton 2, Ohio. Connell Bldg., Scranton 3, Pa. WASHINGTON Germany — Charles A- Hickman, '58, Hamillon—]cromc A. R>-an, '41, 353 Spokane—Dr. James P. Rotchford, Schellingstrasse No. 81, Munich, 
Wilkes-Barre — Ravmond J. Sobota, 
 South D St., Hamilton, Ohio. '49, West 115 9th -Avenue, Spokane Germany. 
'49, 760 Miners Bank, Wilkes-Barre, 
Mans/ietd—Leo J. Scanlon, '30, 121 Pa. 4, Washington. AlanUa — Conrado Sanchez, Jr., '54, Pearl Street, Crestline, Ohio. Western — Frederick N. Homer, '43, 83 Ma5T)n St., Quezon City, Phil­Williamsport — Joieph Orso, Jr., '55, 2814-40 Ave., W., ScatUc 99, ippines. 
Norlhwestem —James W. Myers, '38, 230 E. Wa>-ne St., Celina, Ohio. Mexico City—Telmo De Landero, '37, 
641 Oliver St., Williamsport, Pa. Wash. RHODE ISLAND Eugcnio Sue No. 220, Mexico City, 
Ohio Tol/cj'—Robert R. Sincavich, '40, \VEST VIRGINIA Mexico. 
AND SOUTHEASTERN 
134 Grant .\ve.. Wheeling, W. Va. Thomas E. Kennell, '56, 1007 Bel­
MASSACHUSETTS Panama—Lorenzo Romagoza, *45, Box 
mont, Charleston, W.Va. 
Sandusky — Richard C. Hohler, '47, Edward P. Denning, '50, 114 Green­3393, Panama, Rep. of Panama. 

Central — John D. Julian, '40, P.O. 
2603 Eastwood Dr., Sandusky, Ohio. 

wich Ave., E. Providence, R.l. 
Box 2063, Cbrksburg, W.Va. Peru—Enrique Lidli, '45, Cuzco 440, 
Tiffin — Fred J. Wagner, '29, 132 SOUTH CAROLINA Lima, Peru. Sycamore St., Tiffin, Ohio. 
Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore mSCONSIN Puerto Rico — Paul McManus, '34 Toledo — James P. Silk, '54. 2/07 Dr., Wcstwood, Charleston, S.C. (Vice-Ptes.), Calle Earie No. 4, 
Fox River Valley—Robert J. Simkins, Graccwood Rd., Toledo, Ohio. '56, 1137 W. Lorain St., Appleton, Condado, Santurce, Puerto Rico. 
younjJIown—Charles J. ^^cCrudden, SOUTH DAKOTA Wise. Rome — Vincent G. McAloon, *34  '57, 124 Prestwtck, Youngstou-n, Black //ajl—Bernard Gira, 'ID, Cus­Gr«n iJo)^Robert W. Schaefer, '53, (Secretary), Palazzo Brancatxio, Ohio. ter, South Dakota. 2522 Martha St., Green Bay, ^Visc. Largo Brancacdo, 82, Rome, Italy. 
ments for this, our onlv summer get-together. C. WEBER. Returning from the game on Sunday, 
Justice WILLIAM B. L.\WLESS JR. '44 was October 13th, following tours of the campuses of director in charge of our September meeting. Tliis Notre Dame and St. Mary's, we all gathered at meeting is held annually to welcome area freshmen the home of our hosts. Bill and Jean Lawless for and their fathers into the Notre Dame family. ^a sumptuous repast. GENE O'CONNOR, assistant U.S. attorney for An additional item of significance is that Justice 
Clubs 
Western New York, arranged an interesting pro­I.awlcss, of the Supreme Court of the State of New gram. Highlights of the BufTalo "Bills" 1962 season York, has just been appointed a member of the were shown after an interesting football question-Notre Dame Law School Advisory Council. 
and-answcr session. Dick Gallagher, General Mana­The Buffalo Club initial program for 19G4 is as ger of the "Bills," and members present. Notre follows: February, a combination election and meet­
Aurora 

Local Irish turned out en masse for the Danny Darners on the I9G3 "Bills" squad who were present ing to adopt By-laws. JOE BUCKHEIT is Director Tliomas benefit and banquet in August to join included Assistant Coach JOHN NL\ZUR, Quarter­in cliargc of this meeting. In March, JIM CASEY JOHNNY LATTNER and other celebrities from back DARYLE L.\MONICA and Halfback ED is in charge of the Foundation meeting featuring Chicago at the event, held at Mamiion Militar\­RUTKOU'SKI. WILLLAM E. (BUS) PFIEL '35 ".MOOSE" KRAUSE and DON ROSS as guest Academy. 
won a pair of tickets for the "Bills" first home speakers. GEORGE FERRICK is the new Buffalo game. area Foundation Chairman. His able assistants PAT Berkshire County PAT K.-VNE, urban development specialist, was McGRODER, JACK ENDERS, JLM KLAUSS. 
Tlie annual student scnd-ofT party was held in 
scheduled as our November guest speaker. JIM McGEE and JOE WATSON. Friends and early September at the Stanley Club, Pittsfield. In 
JACK McMAHON '55 and D.WE BRUCKER are parents arc invited to attend this meeting. addition to the students and alumni, fathers of the 
arranging our Universal Communion Sunday for Our annual Retreat as in the past will be held students were also present. December 8 in St. Louis Church on Main Street over the Passion Sunday weekend, which this year 
Dr. FRED GABRIEL is serving as chairman of 

in Buffalo. is .\rarch 15. AUUREY QUINN ts Chairman of the Communion breakfast. JIM FARRELL and 
The annual Christmas dance will be held De­the event. AL BZDUL.\ are the co-chairmen for U.N.D. night. 
cember 28 at the Buffalo Trap and Field Club. —JIM CASEY '44, Secy. Our ranks have been depleted somewhat in the 
Dr. FRANK ARGEN '53 is Director in charge. last few months with the transfer of our President Central New York 
President, BOB WEBER '49 and GEORGE FER­FR.ANK LINEHAN to Johnson City, X. Y.; our 
RICK arranged a football excursion, by plane to Secretary- RAY PAINLEY to Daytona Beach, Fla.; 
the Southern Cal game. PAT NEVILLE '52 and The Central New York (Syracuse) Club elected ED REAG.\N to Washington, D.C.; and BOB 
JOHN (BOO) FANNING sponsored a three-day new officers on April 17. They arc JAMES F. KELLY to Johnson City, N. Y. All were active luxury on No­ president; I.
 bus excursion to the Nav>* Game WELTER, FREDERICK DELANEY members, hard workers for the Club and will be 
vember 2nd. JR. vice-president; FRANK CAHILL, secretary; ercatlv missed. 
Those making the trip were as follows: Mr. and and WILLIAM KELLY, treasurer. —F. M. LINEHAN, cx-Pres, 
Mrs. F. BRENDAN BURKE, Mr. and Mrs. Tlie Wives Club sponsored the annual family CHARLES J. CL.AUSS, Dr. and Mrs. WALTER picnic on June 23 at Marcellus Park. >frs. Wil-Buffalo E. CONSTANTINE, Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS L. liam Hassctt and Mrs. Thomas Ryan were co-chair­
GARY WTBSTER, former U.N.D. golf team DOWD, Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE W. FERRICK, men. captain, was low gross winner at our annual golf Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS P. FLAHERTY, Mr. and On Sept. 3 we bad our annual student send-off outing. This year it was held at the Eric Downs Mrs. J. THOMAS IRWIN; Justice and Mrs. WIU dinner. We also started our annual ticket drawing Country Club, Fort Erie, Canada. JOHN BIRD LIAM B. LAWLESS and daughter, Sharon; Mr. drive (with tickets and expenses to the Notre Dame­'61, a junior at the University of Buffalo Medical JOHN MAZUR, Dr. ELMER McGRODER, Mr. Syracuse game as prizes) with this set-tosether. School, was low net champion. JACK CONSIDINE and Mrs. JAMES F. McVAY. Mr. and Mrs. The football highlights of the season were shown. '49 (cx-*45) and George Fcrrick '41 made arrange­EDWARD J. RUH, and Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT —JAMES F. WELTER '48, Pres. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 IS 
Central Pennsylvania 
The picture in this issue was taken on the occa­sion of the Annual Sports Banquet at our big new Bishop Carroll High School here in Ebensburg, Pa. It was HUGH DEVORE's first eastern appearance Following his appointment as head coach last spring. 
B. C. H. S. has an enrollment of approximately 1500 and ser\'es forty parishes of the Altoona­Johnstoiv-n diocese. 
—DONALD A. SCHETTIG 
Chattanooga 
The X.D. Club of Chattanooga announced at an August lunclieon that a committee had been formed which will seek to establish a fund to aid local stu­dents attending the University. .\ formal Christ­mas Dance was planned for December 29 to aid the fund. TIic Scholarship Committee includes P.-\T CROU'E JR., TOM 0\\*EN% R.\Y SIENER, FR.\NK DELAXEY JR., RICHARD STRAUSS, and ROBERT J. SHOCKEY, chairman. 
Chicago 
Get on the phone right now and round up a tabic 
for t!ic Rockne Memorial Dinner—one of the big­
gest sports celebrations this year in the Windy 
City. Here arc the pertinent facts: Date—^Tuesday, 
Dec. 3. Place—International Ballroom. Hilton 
Hotel. Time—Cocktails, 5:30 p.m.; Dinner, 6:45 
p.m. 
The committee has nut together an all-star pro­
gram for the Rockne Dinner. JOHNNY LUJACK, 
former X.D. .All-.'\merican and Chicago Bear star, 
will be the featured speaker. JACK QUINLrVN, 
the voice of the Cubbies, will be toastmxster. Big 
BILL FISCHER, who is back in our town, wiil 
present the Rockne trophies to the top prep players 
in the Catholic and Public leagues. 
Each high scliool in the Chicago area is invited to nominate its outstanding student-athlete for the Rockne award. Tlie city's prep writers pick the winners on the basis of scliolastic achievements, leadership and athletic ability. We expect to host more than 70 nominees this year at what promises to be the biggest sports dinner in club history'. For further information and reservations, call the club office at .\N3-6063. 
ED MIESZKO^VSKI and KEN SCHUSTER arc co-cliainnen for tlie Rockne Dinner. Other com­mittee members include DAS GIBBS, TOM a\REY, JOHN FOLEY, and GERRY SPECHT. Incidentally, tickets for the big event are $10. 
.•\s you know, we are in the midst of our annual membership campaign, and we would appreciate your prompt pay^nent of club dues. Your donation of $10 also prondes a boldface listing in next yearns director>'. If you were not listed in this year's director^', or the listing was not up to date, call the club secretary*. 
Your dues, in addition to defraying routine club expenses such as secretarial help, telephone and postage, enable the club to support such worth­while actintics as prep scIiooI interviewing. College Night appearances at local high schools, freshman orientation party for new students at the Univer­sity, and our sdiolarship fund. 
This year's Freshman Party, whicli ^^"as arranged by JIM JENNINGS, attracted approximately 150 boys and their fathers. JIM GIBBONS, assistant director of public relations at the Universit\-; FATHER D.ANIEL O'NEILL. C.S.C, assistant dean of the Freshman Year of Studies; and Prof. THOiLAS FALLON of the Department of Ph>-si­cal Education reriewed the transition to college education for the boys and their fathers. In­formal discussions were held for almost an hour afterward as the boy's gained first hand information about the University. Several members of the club's Prep and Inter%'icwing committees assisted Chairman Jennings. Each high school senior who applies for admission to Notre Dame is inter^icAved by one of the club's committee members as part of the University's e\'aluation. 
Belated bouquets to JOE ARCHIBALD and his Golf Outing committee. This year's Golf Outing and Sports Night Dinner was among the best In history. We were honored to have FATHERS EDMUND JOYCE and JOHN WALSH with us. Coach HUGH DEVORE and his football staff an-sw*cred any and all questions. Other guests in­cluded ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE, BOB CAHILL and CHARLIE CALLAHAN from the AUdetic Depart­ment. BOB ELSON did a fine job as toastmastcr. Assisting Joe were FRANK MURNANE, secretary; BILL FAY and DON WEBER, PubUcity; AUSTIN McNICHOLS, TOM HANNON, BUD ROMANO and BOB LEE, Prizes; KEN SCHUSTER, General Arrangements; and EMMET O'NEILL, Gamesman­ship. Congratulations to FRANK CHRISTOPHER 
NORTHERN CALIFORNTA—At top, Gerry Jones obser\*es from foreground as a musical reception committee greets the ill-fated Irish expedition to Palo Alto for the Stanford game. Below in foreground, Club President Dan Gentile converses with South Bend^s Ed Luther at one of the many social events of the game weekend. 
and JOE GAUCHER for shooting 72s to share the FRED SNITE JR. Memorial Trophy. Again, the club would like to thank Col. Snite for his hospi­tality at Elmhurst Country Club. 
CHUCK FALKENBERG, the club's hard-work­ing treasurer, lined up a good group on short notice for the pre-\Vi5consin game luncheon at Wieboldt's. 
President ART CONRAD has appointed the fol­lowing committees: LEN SKOGLUND, Nominat­ing; ED MIESZKOWSKI, Election; JOE DELLA MARIA, Auditing; PAUL FULLMER, Budgeting; BILL REYNOLDS, Student-Alumni Relations. 
Standing committee chairmen include: FRED GORE, FRED HOLZL and GEORGE ROSS, Mem­bership; JOE ARCHIBALD and BILL FAY, Public Relations; ED FOX and BOB LE.ANDER, Intcr\icw. ing; and JI.M JENNINGS and JOHN FOGARTY, Prep School. 
FATHER JOHN VAN ^VOLVLEAR, C.S.C, assistant principal of Notre Dame High School in Niles, is the club chaplain. Ex-president PHIL FACCEND.\ is our representative on the National Alumni Board. Hon. THOMAS C. DONOVAN is honorary* president. 
The Ladies Auxiliary will sponsor its annual Scholarship Fund party in March. Complete details will be forthcoming in the near future. 
Tlie Chicago Club welcomes the University's 1963 Chicagoland graduates to its membership. Tliesc new members swell our membership well over the 3,000 mark. We extend a most cordial inWtation to all of you to attend the Rockne Dinner and meet your fellow alumni: 
John P. Aliern, \Villiam R. Ahem, James C. Bachman, William ^L Barth, Tlieodorc L. Bartman, Anthony R. Baclie, William E. Bcier, James M. Bcnnan, Conrad J. Bertz, Parle T. Blake, Frank 
W. Boick, Thomas E. Brannigan, Robert L. Braun, Cliaries P. Bruti, Edward T. Burke, Michael R. Burke, Louis J. Buscher. 
Maurice J. Callalian, John F. Calmeyn, Robert 
M. Carlton, James W. Carney, Paul J. Carroll, Daniel Castellani, Joseph F. Chocolc, Ronald J. Ciacio, John F. Clark, Tcrrcncc J. Clark, John T. Coleman, John A. Costello, Tliomas J. Crowe, Alichael D. Curran. 
George T. Demctrio, Gordon P. Dietzler, Robert 
W. Dillon, James C. Dippman, Paul F. Donovan, Charles K. Driscoll, Eugene M. Faut, Robert J. Fechcry, Michael Felkmeier, Edward W. Fitzgerald, Timothy F. Flynn, William Freidhcim, Bruce A. Fuggati, John C. Gaynor, Louis S. Gibson, Tim­othy F. Glennon, William D. Gorman, Andrew J. Griffin, Charles J. Griffin, Peter A. Grzcsiak. 
James E. Hakes, Thomas C. Halperin, John A. 
Hauter, Walter J. Heency, Robert C. Hoffman, 
Robert E. HofTman, James H. Hughes, Thomas A. 
Jolie, Philip J. Jones, Charles A. Jordan, David J. 
Jovcc, Richard Jucknicss. 
Frank T. Kapple, Albert A. Kashinski, John P. 
Kearney, Gerald J. Koemer, Allen J. Korenjak, 
Michael G. Kox-ac, John Kracklauer, Nicholas H. 
Kuehn, Michael J. Kurzeja. 
Michael M. Lane, James N. Lang^vorthy, John F. 
Lehman, Albert Leineweber, James A. Listak, 
Thomas F. Longeway, Richard E. Ludwig, ^[ichael 
C. Luecke, James R. Mark, Robert M. Martin, John L. McCabe, Allan J. McCarte, Michael McDermott, Charles F. McErlcan, John E. McFad­dcn, Robert P. McNeill, Dennis ^fcWilliams. Robert 
F. Mensik, John E. Miller, Fred ^L Morelli, John 
F. Moticr, John H. Mulhcm, Thomas J. Murphy, Anthony Napoli, Denis M. O'Connor, Michael J. O'Donncll, Michael Y. Oester, John J. O'Hara, John A. O'Louglilin. 
John V. Pasternak, Kenneth R. Piccoli, Tliomas 
F. Prisby, Thomas M. Prusha, John M. Rammel, George W. Reifenberg, Raymond Richclscn, Edu-ard 
D. Roberts, Michael B. Roche, William A. Rogers, Michael E. Rohr, Joseph J. Romanek, Robert R. Rowe, Philip C. Ruddy, Richard F. Rustcck, Donald J. Ryan, John V. Ryan, Philip J. Ryan. 
Mathian J. Sagartz, John P. Sammon, Edward S. Scanlan, William J. Schindlbeck, Robert W. Schmiege, David F. Seng, John R. Shaf, James F. Sherlock, August L. Sisco, Philip W. Skwiot, Arthur 
C. Smith, Micliael S. SquxTcs, Raymond W. Star­mann, Jerome Suramins, Joseph S\-adIcnka, Robert 
C. Swed, James C. Sweeney, Da\*id P. Swire. 
Lawrence R. Temple, Edward T. Ttiilman, Michael C. Thoman, David P. Thomas, Joseph A. Toland, James R. Uhlir, Francis P. Valenti, James M. Walsh, Thomas J. Walton, John F. Ward, Stephen J. Wciland, John R. Woods, .Anthony J. Zack, Vincent J. Zipparro, James J. ZmigrocU. 
—PAUL FULLMER '55, First Vice-Pres. 
Cincinnati 
Tlie 4th annual Notre Dame Alumni Golf outing was held at the Hvde Park Golf and Countni* Club on July 31. BOB McCAFFERTY '43 and REESE LABAR '53 were tied for low net. DENNY NEAD »59 won low gross with JOHN J. KELLEY '41 capturing high honors for the day. 
JACK BRODBERGER, chairman of tlie event, introduced the impromptu guest speaker. Bob Burke, who explained the reason for the high scores. The head greenskeeper is a Purdue graduate. 
On 10 September, TREY HEEKIN '62 and JACK LYNCH '63 were co-chairmen for the "Meet the Freshmen" picnic at Mt. Airy Forest. The high­light of the day was the softball game between the Alumni and the students. Tlie Alumni pre­\'ailcd 23-2 with the Morrissey boys heading up the Alumni squad. 
—PAUL F. KELLEY '54, Secy. 
Cleveland 

The annual Golf Party was held at the Oak Hills Country Club in Lorain, Ohio, with 125 members and guests in attendance. Co-Chairmen were JOHN CHAPL.A, JOSEPH SCHRINER and ROBERT BOUH.ALL. HUGH DE\'ORE uas guest speaker with our own imitable DAS DUFFY as toastmaster. Lou- gross was turned in bv CREIGH­TON MILLER and JOSEPH SCHRINER. The President, JOSEPH E. SOTAK, JR., and the chair­men wish to thank the follouing members for their donations of prizes for this event: 
James D. Archer, Hugh E. Ball, R. C. Bouhall. Thomas F. Bremer, Roger P. Brennan, Leo J. Burby, Alfred A. Burger, John P. Butler, Dr. C. J. Cald­well, Bill Cannon, Arthur F. Carey, Edivard Carey, James Carroll, Pierre Champion, John Chapla, William H. Coleman, James P. Colleran, John P. Coyne, Frank X. Cull, William R. Daley, James 
R. Deritt, Robert E. Dowd, Dan Duffy, C. M. Elstcr, Ted Esdi, Allan W. Fritzsche, Riciiard O. Geockle, Gerald Hammer, John Healy, Hugo J. Hildebrand, Eugene A. Kane, George C. Ker\xr, Edward B. Kllleen, Edward F. Kohl, Larry Krall, Carl Kramer, Bob Lamb, Arthur McBride Jr., Michael G. McGrath, Norman McLcod, Carl E. Martersteck, Don C. Miller, Ray T. Miller Jr., Ray T. Miller Sr-, Charles A. Mooney, John P. Murphy, Stan B. Cofall, Jr., Frank T. Novak, Dr. 
R. J. O'Brien, Dennis J. O'Neill, Hugh M. O'Neill, Francis M. Payne, Riciiard C. Pcajeau, John A. Penote, John J. Raleigh, Jim Reagan, Edward 
P. Reidy, John J. Rcidy Jr., John J. Reidy Sr.. Martin A. Rini, Rohr's Restaurant, Cletus Schneider, 
J. C. Schriner, Bob V. Schriner, Robert Schenkel­berg, Joseph E. Sotak Jr., A. J. Stefanek, James Upriduurd, Herb and John Venables. 
GEORGE KERVER and RILEY MILLER re­

16 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End, 1963 
port tliat the annual Husband and Wife Retreat 
held in August u-os a huge success. 
DON MILLER was guest speaker at the Fresh­
man Orientation Program held on September 11. 
The students held a panel discussion highlighting 
Notre Dame. 
J. E. SOTAK, JR. announced the kickoff of the Annual Scholarship Drive. The drawing of which was held November 19th at Rohr's. 
JERRY HAMMER promises a gala formal Christ­mas Dance at the Sheraton Cleveland on Decem­ber 20th. A full house is anticipated so rescr\'ations should be made well in advance. Bob Reincrt and his Orchestra guarantee danceable music all eve­ning. 
—JOHN P. COYNE, Secy. 
Colorado Springs 
In April of this year I was elected president of 
the Notre Dame Club; JOSEPH A. REICH, JR. 
was elected vice-president; JOHN B. BR^VNDT was 
elected secretary-treasurer, and REV. MICHAEL 
HARRINGTON, pastor of St. Paul's Church, Broad­
moor, was elected Club chaplain. Tlie officers were 
installed In conjunction with Universal Notre Dame 
Night on April 22, 1963. At that meeting the 
Reverend JOHN A. O'BRIEN addressed the Club. 
During the summer the Club had a general pic­nic at Rainbow Falls Park, deep in the Rocky Mountains. Further, early in September tlie Club conducted an honor event for the present students from Colorado Springs at Notre Dame and their fathers. The students honored were Ed Price, re­turning junior; Scott Atwell, sophomore; Thomas Buhl, junior, whose father FR^VNCIS R. BUHL is an alumnus; David F. Cusack, junior, whose father FRANK J. CUSACK is also a graduate; Michael S. Fischer, freshman; James H. Haney, sophomore; and JOHN MORRIS, who is a fresh­man entering the Scminar>-. 
Here in the Springs, we arc talking about the Notre Dame-Air Academy football game to be played in October of 1964. It appears, however, that the current football team is, justifiably, more concerned with the present than the future, so that we will try not to generate too much enthusiasm until this season becomes history. 
JOE REICH, JR., was in charge of preparations for the club picnic, and Mr. \VILLIA.M J. DON­EL^VN, JR., was in cliargc of preparations for the fatlicr-son honor event. 
—OTTO K. HILBERT, Pres. 
Columbus 
On August 14 at the Christopher Inn in Columbus, Ohio, the Notre Dame Club of Columbus held a reception for incoming freshman students and their parents. .-Vfter welcoming talks by Club President JACK DILENSCHNEIDER '53 and student club president Dave Nardonc, the freshmen and their parents were treated to an inspiring talk on Notre Dame by JOHN IGOE '28, after which they viewed the film "Notre Dame" and had a chance to quiz a panel composed of senior Dave Nardone, junior Bob Dilcnschncidcr, and sophomore Gary Armstrong regarding spending, money, permissions, clothing, laundr\-, and other aspects of campus life. BOB KOSYDAR '53 moderated the event which was also attended by club officers DON WEIL.\ND '52, ERNIE KLETZLY '57, and JOHNNY JOHNSON '44. Eighteen students from the central Ohio area will enter Notre Dame this fall, six of whom arc winners of the all-expense, four-year Joyce Scholarships to Notre Dame which are awarded annually to Columbus students. 
Fift>'-Six alumni, students, and dads attended the annual back-to-school picnic on September 7 at the Hall Ridge Club in Columbus, Ohio. Highlight of the event was the annual alumni-student touch football game which was won again by the alumni 8-0. At the beginning of the game the hard-charging alumni line, composed of DICK KASBERG '48, .\L EICHENLAUB '51, ROGER ZOELLNER '53, and JOHNNY JOHNSON '44, snowed under the student quarterback in the end zone for a safety. Later former ND quarterback and now Rosary High School coach HAROLD "BUD" TR.\PP '58 completed successive passes to BOB KOSYDAR '53, DAVE HAGANS '55, JACK DIL­ENSCHNEIDER '53 and CHUCK MACMILLAN '60 for the alumni touchdown. Trapp was also a ball-hawk on defense, intercepting five student passes. Lending moral support from the sidelines were former ND great JACK LEE '55, BERNIE LUTH­
PHY '33 and DICK DILLON '52. LOU PILLOD '57 from Toledo was an alumni guest who bol­stered the ahimni line at critical moments. 
—ERNEST P. KLETZLY '57, Secy. 
Connecticut Valley 
The Club launched a busy schedule of fall activi­ties with the annua] Freshman Dinner in Hartford. Eleven new Notre Dame students from the Greater Hartford area were guests at the dinner with their fathers. An otherwise joyful occasion was marred by the tragic death of a twelfth new freshman, Edward M. Bcakey of Hartford. Beakey was fatally injured in an automobile accident only a week before he was scheduled to leave for Notre Dame, and died the day of the Freshman Dinner. The club had a Mass offered for the repose of his soul. 
Other events on the schedule include a possible joint smoker with area alumni of Syracuse Uni­versity just before the Syracuse-Notrc Dame game in Ne%v York Thanksgiving Day. 
The Club will also hold its annual Corporate Communion on the Feast of the Immaculate Con­ception. An innovation is planned this year. Club members, instead of assisting at Ntass and receiving Communion in the morning, will attend an evening Mass and then hold a Communion supper. It is felt that this way, more wives and other mem­bers of the family will be able to attend. 
—DON FOSKETT, Scc>-. 
Dallas 
The Notre Dame Club of Dallas held its annual "Back to School Smoker" at Vick's Norlhlake Club on September 8lh. The event was to give ever>-­one a chance to meet students now attending tlic Univertit>-. Thanks to the good efforts of DON HARRIS, our Club's president, the members were entertained by the highlights film of the 1962 foot­ball season. It was a great evening with a crowd of some 50 persons in attendance. Projected for this winter will be plans for the winter dance. 
—GENE KERVIN, Sec>-. 
Dearborn 
The annual Summer Dance Pariv was held Saturday, July 27, at the JERRY WAYNO'S (an­other new house) with 24 lively couples present. The guests enjoyed dancing under the stars includ­ing a pass-the-towel (toll) dance. A variety of liquid refreshments were on hand or in hand and tasty food was planned and scr\ed by Pat Sarb and Mary Fish. GEORGE BALL, president, was chair­man of the event. 
JOHN FISH was cliairman of a golf outing Sep­tember 4 which started with excellent golfing fa­cilities, included a delicious meal, and ended with some card playing. The setting, the Dearborn Country Club, and the weather were rated tops by those fortunate to attend this delightful event. 
DICK KING, chairman of the football trip, got everything in motion for a bus trip to the UCLA game with everyone enjoying another victory in Notre Dame stadium. 
The September, October and November meetings were held at the JERRY KELLY, DICK KING, and GEORGE B.\LL residences. 
—R.\Y DEFAUW, Secy. 
Dayton 
Tlic new officers of the Dayton Alumni Club are: President, PATRICK J. FOLEY; Vice-President, ANDREW AiL\N. JR.; Secretary, PETER J. DONAHUE; and Treasurer: ROBERT REMM. 
The Club meets for an informal luncheon twice a month, on the first and third Thursdays, at the Gold Coin restaurant. Tlie Class with the biggest representation gels a free meal for each member present. 
August 11th was the date of the family picnic at Miami Valley Country Club. We had about 100 people, counting JIM BRITT's seven and PAUL LAAIMERS* seven little ones. The boys got through 5 innings of softball with no coronaries. RON HENNE won the "consumers researcli medal" with beverages during the game, and ROCK MORRIS­SEY got the most hits. 
The annual golf outing was set for September 5th at Dayton Country Club. Golf and a stag dinner were held. 
—PAT FOLEY, Pres. 
Decatur 
On July II, 1963, FATHER JOSEPH BARRY of the University presented a lecture on Father Corby and the Irish Brigade at the Battle of Gettys­burg, before the monthly meeting of the Decatur Ci\*il ^Var Round Table. Chairman was B. A. M.ARTY, \'ice president of the Round Table. 
Three fourth-Wednesday luncheons preceded our annual meeting, so we met in the smoke-fillcd Gold Room of the Blue Mill Restaurant and elected officers and directors for 19&4. The business of the evening evolved into delightful entertainment. 
President BUZZ MORAN'S brief report uiis interrupted by groom GENE FORAN, who early in his marital bliss had learned the virtue of speak­ing up. He spelled out three "firsts" accomplished in 1963, not to mention JERRY McNA%L\RA'S **black" treasurer's report. Mr. Foran's comments were roundly applauded. 
NICK NEIERS, unable to identify other mem-

MAN '53, TOM FRY '48, TOM HUGHES '38, PAT HUGHES, and PAT CANTWELL *52. AUo in CONNECTICUT VALLEY—Annual scndoff for new freshmen was held by the ND attendance were JIM HUGHES, HERM BtTTNER 
Club in Hartford. President Bob McGoldrick (center) wishes success to William 
'24, FRANK BIGGERT '50, AL FRERICKS '41, 

Baumcrt and others, (l.-r.) Denis Karpuska, Michael O'Gonnell, Terrance Ahem, 
TED FRERICKS '39, JOHN IGOE '28, JOHN 

MURPHY '28, HARRY NESTER '20, BUD MUR-James Watson, Gary Kuckel, Bruce Quinn and Gerard Miele, aU campus-bound. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 17 
bcrs of the nominating committee, Iiilariousty in­terpreted our responsibilities under the By-Laws, uhicli arc now knou-n as ROBERT UHLE'S of order. 
With a minimum of dissension next year's officers uerc elected: President, JOHN FOY '34; Vice-Presi­dcnl, JERRY .McNA-MARA '60; Secreur>-, STE­PHEN G. GRALIKER '42; and Treasurer, JOSEPH DONOV.AN '54. 
Directors arc A. & "BUZZ" MOR.AN, JR. (1 year), JOSEPH DONOVAN (1 year), and NICK XEIERS (2 years). REV. ROBERT HEINTZ '42 is cliaplain. 
—STEVE GR-ALIKER, Secy. 
Denver 
Denver's Xotrc Dame Club has gotten off to a great start this year under the leadership of JIM COUGHLIN '57, our new president. Memberships arc up from last year (liowevcr. the collection of dues is ofT the usual 10%) and there is a rene^ved interest in the Club and its actiWties. 
Since our last report to the ALUMNUS, the Denver Notre Dame Club has held its annual draw­ing for the "Denver-South Bend and Return and All Expenses Paid" football trip. The lucky winner of this year's trip to the XD-UCL.\ game was DR. ROBERT SEARS M6. 
TIic Club was honored in September with a visit from FATHER THOMxVS O'DONNELL, 
C.S.C. He was in Denver doing some missionary work for the Notre Dame Librar>' Association and to help the wives of Denver alumni in organizing a ciiapter of the xssociation. Elected as the first co-chairmen were Jeanette SHEEH^VN (JIM '50) and Mary KLENE (DON '49, '55). 
Big news from Denver is tliat TOM CURRIGAN '41 was elected mayor of Denver and took office on July 1, 1963 for a four-year term. Tom's elec­tion came after he was the forerunner in a hotly contested primar\' election and a landslide victor in a general election held in June. Tom took JOHN DEE '52 into his cabinet as manager of Denver's vast City and Mountain Parks Recreation De­partment. 
One of the Denver Notre Dame Club's annual features is its sports lunclieon. held this year in October. FRANK LE.^HY addressed the members of the club and their guests and gave them a few reminders on the significance of sports and llic meaning behind the spirit of Our Lady's School. JOHN DEE acted as master of ceremonies and in­troduced the many sports notables present, including .\rmy's Doc Blancliard, now an assistant coach at the .\ir Force Academv in Colorado Springs. 
—JOHN R. MOR^VN, JR. '52, Sec>-. 
Detroit 
TIic annual Fall Stag Party was held Sept. 9 in the Main Ballroom of the Veterans Nfemorial Build­ing. DAVE HURD, a former lineman and now an assistant football coach at the University, gave a rundown on the 1963 Irish, and a film of last year's football highlights was shown. Tlie committee for the c\x-nt included WALTER J. "BOB" CRONIN, MICHAEL CURRIER, and LOUIS C. BOSCO, JR. 
Alumni supported a return engagement of the Glee Club Oct. 26 at Marian High Scliool. Birm­ingham, sponsored by the Mothers' Club. 
Tlie ND-Syracusc football trip to Netv York. Nov. 27-Dec 1, provided members with round trip air transportation to New York and bet%veen the Hilton and Yankee Stadium, hotel accommoda­tions, a football luncli and a complete Thanksgiving 

~ c\*cning (including dinner and dancing) at the famous Tavcm-oii-tlic-Grcen. 
Erie 

The Annual Notre Dame Summer Picnic, August 24, 1963, w-as a great success and enjoyed by all. This affair was held at the LEO BRUGGER '34 summer home, Fair^-ie^e, Pa. TIic honored guests were the incoming freshmen and their parents. 
Among those who attended the Notre Dame Stmimcr Picnic were Messrs. & Mmcs.; JOE B.\RBER, '36, TOM BARBER, '24. BOB BARBER '40, TOM BATES '60, LEO BRUGGER, SR. '34, LEO BRUGGER, JR. '61, JA.MES OUTER '37, LOUIS CAVANAUGH, BILL GRANT '45, HERB KERN '54, ED KERN '56, WILLL4M O'BRIEN '3* (Pittsburgh, Pa.), TON^Y Z.4MBROSKI '52, JOHN McCORMICK, SR., (Honorarj- '17), JOHN McCORMICK, JR. 'S3, RICH McCORMICK '55, LAWRENCE STADLER '29, and JACK YOUNG. Also REV. JOSEPH E. HIPP, JOE BLAKE '61, JAMES DWYER, JR. '65, PAT .McCORMICK 'M, DAVE STOUT '64, MIKE McCORMICK '61, & JERRY EHRMAN '63. 
Alumni Clubbers in Erie are quite proud of Rich-• 

18 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
KANSAS CITY—Club President Jim Higgins (left) greets Father Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., N.D. vice-president of student affairs, and Dr. D. M. Nigro, president of the national Rockne Club, at the K.C. Notre Danic Night. 
ard Arringlon, sophomore tackle, from Eric, Pa.; he 
has been doing a tremendous job with the Fighting 
Irish and was awarded the "Knute Rockne" Award 
for his play against Purdue. Rich was instrumental 
in the Irish defensive line that held the Purdue 
power sweeps in check. 
JOHN McCORMICK, JR., *53 is seen quite often 
these daj-s m the Eric newspapers. John is president 
of the ^'Support Our Sports" Club here in Erie. 
It was so nice to see REV. JOSEPH HIPP at 
our .\nnual Picnic. He is presently occupied with 
his many jobs here at Gannon College. 
TO.M B.-VTES '60 is also at Gannon College in the 
public relations department. Tom is looking forward 
to the coming Gannon basketball season. 
JOHN E. KELSCH, formerly of Erie, met his 
father. Jack Kelsch. an ardent Notre Dame fan, 
and a few close friends from Erie and Toledo, in 
South Bend for the Fighting Irish sca>-on opener 
against Wisconsin. 
PAT McCORMICK '64 is enjoying his senior year at Notre Dame. Pat's parents, Mr. & Mrs. JOHN McCOR.MICK (Honorary- '17). recently made their annual trek to South Bend for the UCLA Game. 
TONY Z.-\MBROSKI '52, doing his usual good job at Cathedral Prep, has been on the Prep coaching staff for the past 10 years. 
JIM EHRMAN '61, enjoying married life, is work­ing in Baltimore for Weslinghouse Corp. in their electrical engineering department. Jim's younger brother, Jerry '63, presently is working for his master's degree in business at the University of Pittsburgh. 
LAWRENCE STADLER '29 and his son Joseph are pretty busy these days with their work at Su­perior Bronze here in Eric, but they both find enough time on Saturday afternoons to tunc in the Irish. 
CHARLES WITT.\!ANX '31, quite busy travel­ing to sec his two sons, is already looking forward to another summer in the country. He and Mrs. Wittmann were seen quite often this past summer on Lake Eric in their boat. 

TIic Xotrc Dame Club of Erie wish Robert Farmer the best of luck in his studies at ND. Bob started his freshman year in September and seems to be doin^ quite welL 
—LEO J. BRUGGER, JR. '61, Sec>-. 
Flint 

Tlic Notre Dame Club of Flint held a dinner meeting on Oct. 29, 1963, to lay plans for fall and winter projects. 
PAUL HUGHES and FRED .MANSOUR %vere in charge of the bus excursion to the Michigan Sutc Game on Nov. 16. Tlirec (3) bus loads of Irish fans made the trip and a good time was had by all. 
President WALT XAGLE appointed FRED MAN­SOUR. VIC GEORGE, and BOB SIBILSKY to work on a Club Communion Breakfast on Sunday, Dec. 8. It will be a family affair with ^lass at St. Joseph's Hospital and breakfast following at a local restaurant. PAUL HUGHES was asked to con­tact FATHER JOHN CWANAUGH, C.S.C., as principal speaker. DICK GARAB will serve as master of ceremonies. 
—JIM RHADIG.AN, Sec>'-Treas. 
Fort Lauderdale 

Tlic majority of this article will be devoted to information on our *''Second International Conven­tion" to be held for the first time at the Lucayan Beach Hotel, Lucaya, Grand Bahama Island; but first a synopsis of events since we last met: During July wc held our first annual "Golf Tourney*' and it met with unexpected success. Tlianks to Chairman FRANK CAREY '46 and his helpers BILL M.\US JR. '53. brother TOM MAUS '37. BILL THEIS '60, BOB GORE JR. '31, FRANK McGINN '52, JOHN McGINN '54 and many others, a fine turnout enjoyed a full day of golf with refreshments on the course, cocktails and dinner. By popular demand, this will be a featured annual event. 
August brought our annual Freshman Send-off 

dinner with JIM GIBBONS '53, assistant public 
relations director, representing the University. Those 
freshmen In atlendcncc were E^VRL OVTRON, DAN 
PIERCE, BOB HODGSON and TONY McNICHO-
L.'\S; only ED MALIK was unable to attend. Stu­
dents joining us were: TOM FR.\NCK '65. BUCKY 
McG.\N.\ '66, AL KRISTOWSKI '66, PETE 
BUDETTI '66 and HOWARD MURPHY JR. '66. 
Jim gave an inspirational talk to the new men and 
received a tremendous ovation from the many 
members and parents DON DORINl '53, our presi­
dent, has already asked Jim to be with us next 
year. Wc arc all looking for%vard to his next visit. 
Looking forivard, we had our annual T\'' party on the 26th of October—Noire Dame vs. Stanford. Tliis is alwa>-s one of the outstanding events of the year and a chance for us all to cheer the bo\-s nn. From the cheers that arc heard when the Fighting Irish score I sometimes wonder if they can't be heard (1300 miles away, that is!!). This was followed by our Sweepstakes Dinner on Oct. 30th. the main money-raising event of the year for the Notre Dame Foundation. Tliis year the first prize was an all-expense trip to New York for the N-D.-Syracu:e game on November 28lh. .Arriving Wednesday, the winners receive hotel accommodations, dinners, tickets to two leading plays, AND three hundred dollars expenses; air transportation is included, of course. Tliey will be hosted by the local Notre Dame Club before and after the game. Wc arc all proud of the job attempted by HUGH DEVORE and wish him future success. Our winners expect to sec a good team and a fine coach. 
Earlier this year our club initiated the FIRST INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION, and plans are being firmed up for next year. Under the guidance of this club and in conjunction with the Palm Beach and Miami Clubs, wc have another wonderful three-day (or more) Convention set up: On .April 24, 25, 26, 1964 at the Lucayan Beach Hotel, near Frecport, Grand Bahama. Tltis brand NEW hotel (opened December, 1963) exhibits its 254 spacious rooms, 18-hoIe golf course, fishing paradise and some 13 million dollars in neu* structures for our benefit. Nearly 250 attended our first convention at the Jack Tar Hotel on the same island earlier this year and all have said they were coming back again this year. ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE and FR. JAMES MORAN, C.S.C. were with us and said they enjoyed the weekend tremendously. This year our chairman is BILL ^L'^US '53. Remember. ALL NOTRE D.AME CLUBS ARE INVITED TO JOIN US—last year I believe there were over twenty-five clubs represented from Illinois, Penn­5\'lvania, Indiana, North Carolina. New York and other States in addition to a fine representation from the Sunshine State, Florida. 
All who arc interested contact Bill at Xotrc Dame Club Convention Headquarters, 100 E. Las Olas Blvd., Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Wc have to set a time limit on reser\'ations this year, so get your letter in the mail today for information, you will enjoy the time of your life at vcrj* reasonable rates. Reservations may be made for three days (two nights) or more. Make up a party, wc arc looking forward to seeing you. 
—BOB McDONOUGH, Secy. 

Grand Rapids 
The Club held its 12th football axcursion Nov. 16 for the X.D.- Midiigan State game in East Lansing, Mich. TOM CAMPBELL, BOB WOOD­HOUSE and ED DUNN worked on the arrange­ments. 
Idaho 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Idaho held its annual Summer Picnic at the historic ghost town of SiK*cr City, Idaho. This town is located in the rugged Owyhee Mountains of Southern Idaho. During the 1800's and early part of this centur>', this area produced millions of dollars in gold and silver. During its lively period tins area had a population of over 20,000 people, but at the present time there are only a few permanent residents of this old but colorful city. 
Our guest for this vear's outint was the Reverend FATHER SWEENEY from the Univereity. It w-as the Club's pleasure to have Father say Mass for the members and their families in the old Catholic Church of Silver City. 
Our host for this year*s gathering was Mr. JOE NETTLETON *29, who is a prominent rancher in the Ouyhcc County area. A fine dinner of the Idaho-grown beef was served and all the guests went away completely filled with this choice product of the West. 
In attendance were approximately fifty alumni, their families, and friends. Tlie attendance is indeed remarkable in that the guests must journey over some very rugged western roads in order to gather at this historic locale. 
—P. M. (MIKE) KOHOUT '59, Prcs. 
Indianapolis 
This year has so far been an extremely active one for Central Indiana alumni. At the highlv success­ful UND night in April, FRED L. MAHAFFEY '17 was named Man of the Year in what must have been one of the most popular selections in the Club's history*, judging from the tremendous ovation Fred received. New officers announced that night included Judge JOHN M. RYAN '41, president; RICHARD F. McMARA *54, vice-president; WILLIA^^ D. STUHLDREHER '53, sccretar>-; and RICH.ARD K. OWENS '42 as the perennial treas­urer. New Directors named were DAVID J. FOX '40, WILLIAM M. HOLLAND. JR., '27; and out­going President Dr. PAUL F. MULLER '37, who is to be congratulated for the outstanding job he did in 1962-63. 
On June 20th BOB WELCH '50 arranged a testi­monial dinner at the Indianapolis Athletic Club for new football coach HUGH DEVORE. Present, in addition to a large number of alumni and friends, were Athletic Director ".MOOSE" KR^VUSE, the entire football coaching stall, and FATHER TOM BRENNAN, who renewed a great many Indian­apolis friendships during the evening. Also on hand were the Irropresslblc JIM.MY CONZELMAN, who flew in from St. Louis, and long-time N.D. friend ED HEf\LY. All present left with the conviction that Hughie is one of the finest representatives that Notre Dame football has been privileged to have, and the entire Indianapolis Club wishes him cver>' success on the gridiron. 
\ week later the Club had the annual stag outing at the McNamara farm, under the direction of DICK McNAMARA '54, assisted by BILL SAHM '51 and PAT FITZGERALD '52. 
On July 18th the annual golf outing was held at Highland Golf and Country Club, and a record turnout of 164 golfers and 200 diners showed up. The afTair was very ably handled by BILL KEN­NEDY, JR. '42, assisted by JOHN A. WELCH '17, PAT FITZGERALD '52, JIM WELCH '50, and JOHN McSHANE '50. The winner of the Peter C. Reilly trophy xvas TIP WILLIAMS '49, and run­ner-up was ED McNAMARA '43. Overall low gross shooter, however, was a guest. Dr. Bill Dichl. who maintained his domination over the Irish that began when he played first string guard on the great Iowa teams led by Xile Kinnick that defeated Notre Dame twice in a row in 1939-40. 
Guests included Guv Mackey, Jack Mollenkopf, BERNIE CRIMMINS, and Bob DeMoss of Purdue; Bob Dro and Howard Brown from Indiana; Tony Hinkle and Bob Dietz from Butler, and GUS CIFELLI and DAVE HURD from the N.D. football staff. 
Further Club activities as we go to press in­cluded the annual family picnic in late August, the Scholarship Ball on October 4, participation in a local charter trip to the Syracuse game in November. 
In closing, we'd like to once again congratulate Dr. TOM C/\RNEY '37 and BOB WELCH '50, who did such outstanding jobs in enabling^ the India­napolis Club to become one of the first clubs in the country- to go "over the top" in both divisions of the §18,000,000 Challenge Program. 
—WILLIAM D. STUHLDREHER '53, Secy. 
Kansas City 
The 1963 Freshman Send-Off Dinner was held at the Black Angus in Kansas City, Mo. Tlie new Notre Dame men introduced themselves and their fathers to the sizable group of alumni in attendance. The Class of '67 area representatives arc as follows: DENNIS HOGART\% HUGH O'NEIL, ED KIBLER, MIKE MARTIN, JIM ICAMSEY, JIM BRESETTE, PAT SMITH, DON KNIGHT, a\R L DURSO, TOM NEUBERGER, BILL SHARP and PAUL BR/\UNSDORF. 
JIM GIBBONS, assistant director of public re­lations, was the featured speaker, and his informa­tive speech concerning current University study pro­grams was enjoyed by all. Especially helpful to the incoming Kansas City area freshmen were talks de­scribing campus activities and tips regarding cloth­ing, etc., by TO.M .MEURER and JOHN GORDON of the class of '66. TOM McGEE was the chairman of this successful event. JIM HIGGINS, the club president, presided at the dinner. 
—a\R L B. ERFFMEYER '51, Secy. 
Kentucky 
For a while It appeared this column niiglit have to be written In the shadow of defeat (although mighty close ones), but Louisville's own BOB LEH­M/VNS* brought smiles back to the faces of all Kentucky Clubbers as he led the Fighting Irish back to the winning trail by way of the 17-14 win over Southern California. Bob has been called the best Captain the Irish have had in the past ten years, and the Kentucky Club is mighty proud of him. Even in defeat, he and Coach Hugh De\*ore have brought the old zip (or is It crunch!?) back to 
N.D. football. 
Congratulations are also in order for three club members who recently traded their way^vard bache­lor wa>'s for that little gold band: JACK MUELLER '52, JLM KREBS '56, and BILL SHERMAN '58. 
Your correspondent has expended so much energy cheering the Big Green on weekends (and collecting and paying off on Monday morning) that he doesn't have much left for this column. Just two thoughts before closing. First, don't forget the N.D.-U.K. basketball game or the Christmas Dance (full details to be announced). Second,' if you're not on the Club mailing list and would like to be. drop me a line at 2410 Woodmont Drive, Louisville 20, and ril rectify the situation. 
—JACK ZUFELT '57, Secy. 
Lansing 
Tlie Lansing Club*s monthly luncheons continue, 
the last one having been held Oct, 21 at TarpofTs 
Restaurant. 
Tlie Club sponsored a mammoth rally and social at the Hotel Jack Tar on the night before the N.D.-MSU game. Held in the main ballroom, the Lansing Room, the party welcomed N.D. alumni, students (Senior Trip), friends and wcll-uishers with band music, snacks and refreshments, plus guest stars from the University. 
The officers. President BERNIE MAYOTTE, Vice-President FR.-\NK SIERAWSKI, Treasurer DICK ALFES and Secretary JOHN POWERS, held a ticket drawing at the November board meeting. 
Lehigh Valley 
Following up the successful U.N.D. Night held on April 20, 1963, Notre Dame Clubbers of The Lehigh Valley held their annual Student Send-off at the Knights of Columbus Home in Allcntown (All­.Amerlcan City), Pa. 0\er fifty alumni, students, freshmen and their families attended. .-Vfter an eve­ning of informal Notre Dame talk, the evening was topped off by the showing of "Tlie 1%2 Notre Dame Football Highlights" film. 
TOM FOGARTY '58 and JI.M ALLE.X '58 were in charge of all the arrangements for the night. 
Other functions planned for the year include a group gathering for the color television broadcast of the N.D.-Stanford football game on Oct, 26; .Annual Communion Breakfast. Dec. 8; Christmas Dance, Dec. 28; and Universal Notre Dame Night, April 4, 19&t. 
—ERC SPINOSA '57, Pres. 
Long Beach 
Last summer llie following were elected officers of the Xotre Dame Club of the Greater Long Beach Area: FRANK CONATY, BSXIE '43 President; 
H. J. "PAT" KEARNS BSAE '33 Vice-President; 
and THOMAS M. CREHAN BA '56 and LL. B. '59 
Secretar>--Trcasurer. —THOMAS M. CREHAN, Secy.-Treas. 
•«.. k 
I'Vl 

CHICAGO — At left a contingent from Oak Park's Fenwick High School gather around Father Daniel O'Neill after the Chicago Club's Freshman Party, held at the Lake Shore Club in September. Two of the school's top football players attended with their fathers. Shown with Father O'Neill are: (1. to r.) Dan Gibbs, Sr., Ray Wengierski, Dan Gibbs, Jr., and Tim WengieiskL Among the father-son combinations, at right, were (1. to r.): Bob Linehan, Sr., and Bob Linehan, Jr., Mark Mitchell, Sr., and Mark Mitchell, UL Mark Mitchell is a member of the club's Interviewing Conmiittee and attended the Freshman Party in bis dual role of father and committee member. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
NEW YORK—^Delayed pictures from Universal Notre Dame Night in New York City show (from left): Most Rev. Fulton J. Sheen with 1963 N. Y. Club Scholarship dinner Frank English, Jr., now a freshman at the University; and the principal speakers, including campus representative Dr. George N. Shuster, Club chaplain Afsgr. Gerard Green, 1963 Man of the Year Bill Cuddy, Bishop Sheen, and Club President Ed Fitzpatrick. The traditional formal observance preceded a dinner-dance at the Park Lane Hotel. 
Maine 
The annual Notre Dame alumni family picnic for tlie State of Maine wzs held on Saturday, August 31, at the wonderful Camp Scbaik, situated in North Scbago, Maine. This is the camp run by the Holy Cross Fathers, ivhich has a beautiful assortment of camping buildings, main building, panlion, infirmary, as Well as a modern and up-to-date baseball field and Avatcrfront swimming facilities and many boats. These facilities were turned over to the Notre Dame Club of Maine by FATHER HANNA, the director of the camp. He and his assistant FATHER TOSTE, plus a dozen seminarians from the North Easton Seminary, were most gracious hosts to the Notre Dame Club. 
Although our State is widely scattered, we did manage to have out for the picnic the following alumni and students. Among the alumni were DON GRIEVES '51, PAUL SCULLY '41, TONY SILVA '56, RAY GEIGER '32, JOE DOYLE '42, MIKE SALTER '49; and the students attending from the University at the present were NORMAN LAURENDAU, PETER THORNTON, STANLEY LIBERTY, ERNEST AUSTIN; and in addition to these we had with us REV. LEONARD COLLINS, C.S.C, dean of students at Notre Dame, and JIM DAY '32, a long-time friend of the Maine Club, and FATHER LUCE, C.S.C., as well as 27 assorted parents, brothers and children of the alumni. This was our first attempt at a family picnic and it proved most successful, although two of our most prolific alumni, JESS DELOIS with six cliildrcn and JACK WILKINSON with eight, were unable at the last minute to join us. However, for those who were on hand it was a delightful day with the Fanners* Almanac w*eatlier being just exactly right —beautiful, dear and delightful. 
New officers were elected for the year lOSS-lO&t as follows: PAUL SCULLY '41, president; AN­THONY SILVA '56, Wce-president; RAY GEIGER '32, secretary; and DON GRIEVES '51, treasurer. 
Ray Geiger, reporting for the Scholarsliip Fund, 

announced that up to date $2,930 had been disbursed 
to help needy bo>-s from the State of Maine. An 
additional fund of $500 is on hand to help a new 
boy who will require it for the fximing year. This 
monc>' Is loaned, to be returned when it can be 
with no interest, and up to the present time we have 
been fortunate to help four different boj's in their 
need for money to educate themselves. 
Former treasurer JOE DOYLE turned over our 

rather modest treasmy to DON GRI£\^£S, tlie in­
coming treasurer. 
We announced a Notre Dame-Syracuse football ticket raffle, with which we will try to add to our ­treasury. It seems the Notre Dame Band will be coming to Maine next Eastertime and this will help us with our scholarship monies. Wc are also privi­leged to have the Notre Dame debating team come ' to Lewiston, Maine, to debate with our Bates College. 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 2963 
JIM COONEY, the new assistant director of the Notre Dame Foundation for the State of Maine, wired us that he could not be with us at our picnic. RAY GEIGER is to continue as the Elaine Founda­tion Governor at the appointment of FATHER HESBURGH, C.S.C. As continuing secretary-, may I invite any Notre Dame folks passing by the Geiger Bros, plant at Exit 13 on the ^faine turnpike to come off for a \Tsit. We arc always delighted to have friends drop in and sincerely hope that you will put this information where It can be found easily and plan to come to \-isit us some time. 
—R.AY GEIGER, Secy. 

Mansfield 
The annual Family Picnic was held on July 21st at 

the Therm-O-Disc Recreation Grounds. A fine turn­
out was on hand; Chairman M. E. PRUNTY, JR. 
*50, and committee members FRANCIS S. COLE­
^UN, '46 and JAMES J. JERGENS, conducted 
games for the cliildrcn and made all the necessary 
arrangements. Evcr\-onc had a grand time and is 
looking forward to picnic time again next vcar. 
President LEO J. SaAXLON '30 InWted all of the officers of the Club and the past presidents for luncli at the Mansficld-Lcland Hotel in August to meet TOM KERNAN of the Alumni Office who was in town to pay us a \isit. It was good to meet Tom, to get first hand news from N.D. and to learn about plans for the future. 
Forty-one partisan fans traveled to see the Notre Dame-Wisconsin game on September 28th; we hated to see them lose, but evcr>'one u-as pleased with the fine plav of the Irish. Chairman, C. J. KOZ.\K '30, with committee members RICHARD L. W.ALT­ER '41, JAMES F. EHALT '48, GEORGE F. KAV­ANAUGH '31, and M. E. PRUN*TY, JR. '50, did a fine job in making the annual bus trip so enjoy­able. 
—M. E. PRUNTY, JR., Secy. 

Milwaukee 
NEW OFFICERS ANNOUNCED Tlie new officers for the '63-'64- year of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame Alumni Club of Kfllwaukee were announced last summer as follou*s: THOMAS 
L. MULCAHY, JR., president; JOHN A. SCHLOE­GEL, vice-president; THO.\US J. McNULTY, treasurer; RONALD M. BUKOWSKI, secretary; and DAVID L. ROEMER, director of public re­lations. 
THOXUS MULCAHY Is a 1957 graduate with a finance major and is currently a salesman with Bache & Co. JOHN SCHLOEGEL was an account­ing major and graduated in 1954. He Is currently employed as a securities anal>-st with Tamarack Petroleum Co. From the class of 1957 and a busi­ness administration major Is THOMAS J. McNUL­TY, who is working as a salesman for Minnesota Mining Co. RON BUKOWSKI is the operations manager for the Milwaukee office of Bache & Co. and graduated In 1960 with accounting as his major. DAVE ROEMER majored in business administration and graduated in 1959. He is currently employed by the First Wisconsin National Bank as a branch assistant. 
It was also reported that the June 24tli golf out­ing at Tuckaway Counlr\- Club was a great success. SLxty-ninc of the eighty-five dues-paying members were present to play golf, dine, and bear Notre Dame's football mentor HUGH DEVORE promise that if the faculty appreciated the boys he has at summer scliool the troops could be pretty rough in the fall. The first dates set for the new year's program were the Braves baseball outing on August I3th and the Wisconsin Football Game Smoker at the Pabst Brewery on September 26th. 
FALL S.MOKER A.N'D MEMBERSHIP DRIVE A SUCCESS 
Nine members of the Club rolled up their sleeves and conducted the most successful membership drive in the group's history. 
Under a plan outlined by President TOM MUL­CAHY, the nine monopolized their home phones as they never have before (since being married) to accomplish two primary- results: (1) substantially increase the number of dues paying members and 
(2) cut the cost of the club's mailings by eliminating those from the mailing list who were not Interested in the club's actirities. By September 26th, five da>'5 ahead of the deadline, 384 calls were made with the following results: (1) $5.00 memberships were Increased from 82 In 1962 to 144; (2) six $2.00 correspondent memberships were received (this en­titles the holder only to receive the club's mail­ings); and (3) 234 individuals were cut from the mailing list. The last amounts to a $250.00 annual 
* savings In postage alone. 
As part of the program the callers made cor­rections In the addresses and telephone numbers of members. This Information will be used to compile a club directory which will be mailed to each "full" member In place of a membership card. 
The nine stalwarts were: RON BUKO^VSKI, DENNIS LANDRY, ROGER LAUR, TOM MUL­CAHY, TOM McNULTY. DAVE MURPHY, DAVE ROE&fER, JOHN SCHLOEGEL and PHIL VOGEL. On September 26th the club held Its annual Fall Smoker at the Pabst Brewery hospitality room. If there was ever a more collegiate "atmo­sphere" It Is unknou-n to us. 
Featured on the program were 1953 Hcismann Trophy winner JOHN LATTNER and his All-Amer-Ican teammate DON PENZA. The latter had the platform first, and John wound up the talks with an inspiring monologue that was reminiscent of the Friday night pep rally. The 82 members present were then shown the 1962 Fighting Irish highlights. 
^DAVID L. ROEMER, Public Rel. DIr. 
Muskegon 
JIM MORSE and STAN TYLER, JR.. together 
with JOHNNIE FREDERICK, BILL TARDANI 
and JIM PRICE, combined with the beautiful sum­
mer weather and the green fain\*ays of the Ponta­
luna Country Club to make our annual golf stag a 
delightful occasion for over one hundred who at* 
tended, including PAUL HORNUNG. 
It would have been incomplete without some repre­
sentative from the University and wc enjoyed having 
FATHER DURBIN, BILL EARLY and assistant 
coaches BRAD LYNN and DAVE HURD. 
I haven't had a chance to tally the financial score 
with our good Treasurer BILL TARDANI, but it 
should be on the plus side and provide a win for 
our scholarship fund. 
—LEO L. LINCK, Sec>-. 
Central New Jersey 
The second annual golf outing and steak roast 
was held on June 20lh. Four foursomes vied for 
first place honors, won by \V.\LT KAVANAUGH. 
Tlie steak roast was held at the home of Jx\CK 
MULLEN, chairman of the affair. 
Our *'Frcshman Send-Ofl" took place at the Park 
Hotel, Plainfield, on September 4lh. Fifteen new 
students and their parents were present along xvith 
30 alumni and their wives. A wonderful job done 
by JERRY TOOMEY, chairman. 
Five hundred alumn! and their friends prepared 
to make the trip to the Syracuse game on Thanks­
giving. BOB ARRIX was put in charge of this 
venture, assisted by TOM KENNExVLLY, WALT 
KAVAN.\UGH, BILL RICHARDSON, JOHN 
LISICKI, BILL MULLER and WALT FL.\HERTY. 
DICK CONNELLY has accepted the chairman­
ship of the Annual Communion Breakfast. 
—BILL MULLER, Sec\-. 
New Jersey 
At our Annual Golf Outing held at the Glen Ridge 
Country Chib on June 3 . 1963 under the Chair­
manship of BRUCE DOLD '52, the following Offi­
cers and Directors were elected: President, HARRY 
DURKIN '53; Vice-President, ED BRODERICK, 
JR. '54; Secretarv, J.\MES A. SEBOLD, JR. '50; 
and Treasurer, HANK BORDA '39; Directors, TOM 
FARLEY '50, R.\Y TROY '34, JOHN KELLY 
'40, BRUCE DOLD '52, JOHN PINDAR MO, BOB 
JOYCE '50, and JOHN Q. ADAMS '27. 
The Golf Outing proved to be one of the most 
successful Club functions of the year, although 
temperatures in the mid 90's slowed down the 
tempo of play. L.\RRY DOYLE led the troops with 
low gross of 78 but was pushed by STEVE Bx\R­
RETT and TORME SCHIEPA, who came in with 
an 80 and 81 respectively. 
Others in attendance who were recipients of prizes are as follows: ANGELO BERTELLI (closest to the pin on the Bth hole, he threw it), GEORGE MILLER (biggest duffer), JOHN Q. AD.AMS (best dressed), GENE CODEY (shortest drive on 1st tee, minus 25 yards, hit clubhouse on backswing); AL PERRINE, our Foundation chairman, walked away with the biggest promoter award; RED OUTER­BRIDGE, BUNKY REGAN, FRAN VITELLI, JOE CONLON, GEORGE WXNZ and MYLES KELLY spent most of the afternoon in the water or in the sand traps. 
.^fter the dinner (which PETE QUINN, BILL REGAN, LEO COSTELLO, JIM \VALDRON, HARRY DURKIN, RAY TROY, GENE DEAN, ERNIE MASINI and TOM FARLEY attended) we were briefed on the football outlook for 1963 by Messrs. Kelly, Longo and Sheridan, members of the squad. 
If tile entire team has as much spirit and respect for Coach Devore as these three boys, we should have a good season. 
On Monday, September 9, 1963 The Notre Dame Alumni Association of New Jersey held their tradi­tional Freshmen Welcome at the Military Park Hotel in Newark, New Jersey. 
Seventy-four Freshmen and their fathers were in­doctrinated into tlic Notre Dame family. 
An inspiring talk given by Judge ROBERT A. MATTHEWS '42 was followed by a question and answer period with JOHN DONOHOE '64, presi­dent of the Campus Club, and GEORGE NOVAG 'W, secretary of the Club, on the receiving end. 
The affair was a splendid success under the chair­manship of BOB JOYCE '50. Other alumni who at­tended included ED and JERRY BRODERICK, THEWS and HARRY DURKIN) on the eve of 
the Wisconsin game, the Irish couldn't quite pull it 
out of the fire. 
—JAMES A. SEBOLD, JR. '50, Secy. 
New Mexico 
August 4, 1963, was the date of the annual 
Club picnic. The site was again the Benedictine 
Monastery in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains near 
Pecos, New Mexico. Chairman PAUL FARMER 
did an excellent job in making arrangements for the 
outing; approximately fifty members and their 
families enjoyed a pleasant afternoon in the moun­
tains. 
To raise money for our Club's scholarship fund, a drawing for an all expense paid trip for two to the N.D.-Stanford game at Palo Alto, Calif., was held on October 18, 1963. The proceeds from this drawing will go towards a partial scholarship grant which will be awarded to a deser\'ing student from New Mexico who is attending Notre Dame. All of our members arc to be commended for supporting this project which will apparently be a financial success. 
On October 26 our club gathered for a telecast party to sec the Fighting Irish outfought by Stan­ford. PAUL FARMER was host to a crowd of about thirty sufferers. 
.•\side from my marriage to the former Miss Mary Jean Payton on June 15, that's about it for this news note. 
—DENNIS L. MANGAN '60, Secy. 
New York 
Tlie Club's outstanding fall function will be the Syracuse game rally and dance to be held in the Waldorf /Vstoria Main Ballroom on the evening before the game. There will be a cocktail party and dance after the game, w*ith' music by Frank Walther's orchestra. Chairman BILL CUDDY and President ED FITZPATRICK have left nothing undone to make this a gala occasion. The Waldorf has set aside a Notre Dame registration and meet­ing room, where out-of-town alumni may list their lemporarv* addresses and phone numbers and arrange for get-togethers with classmates. Special considera­tion will be given to all alumni who wish to stay over at the Waldorf. Peter Lind Hayes will M.C. the rally. 
BILL MURPHY'S Westchester division held a Well attended picnic at the BHndbrook Polo Club on September 22nd. 
GORDON FORESTER was chairman of the an­nual freshman smoker; over ninety freshmen and their fathers had a most enjoyable evening. 
BROOKLYN PREP? Brooklyn Prep alumni who have moved since graduation arc requested to send their names, addresses and year of graduation to Brookl>-n Prep Alumni Association, 1150 Carroll Street, Brooklyn 25, N.Y. 
CASS VANCE chaired the annual Kickoff Meet­ing held in the Waldorf on October 3rd. General Gar Davison was the featured speaker. 
—GEORGE P. KRUG '35, Secy. 
Northern California 
Officers for 1963^ are: DANIEL H. GENTILE '48, president; EDWARD E. MADIGAN, JR. '54, vice-president; RAYMEN J. HUMECKE, treasurer; and PATRICK J. LERNIHAN '54, secretary; PAUL 
J. GUSHING, JAMES COYLE, JACK DOUGH­ERTY, JEROME R. FARRON, GERALD JONES, WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, KEVIN O'SHEA and JOE S.\IDY, directors. 
A meeting attracted about 60 on September 23 
to the Hamm's Brewery Skyroom, both a mixer 
and business meeting to determine the 1963-W 
schedule of events, finalize Football Week activities 
before the Stanford game, and select the directors 
listed above. 
Future events include the alumni-student dance at the St. Francis Hotel, Dec. 26 (J. R. RIFFLE, alumni contact); a spring golf tournament (BILL SHERM^\N and BOB JOHNSON, co-chainnen); and Universal Notre Dame Night. Standing alumni services include Job Placement (MIKE GAL­LAGHER), Athletic Activity (BILL KILLILEA and KEVIN O'SHEA), Admissions Screening (JOHN 0*CONNOR), Central Alumni Liaison (BILL HO­B^VN), and Summer Job Placement ( MIKE DOUGHERTY). Monthly luncheons continue at the Leopard Club in downtown San Francisco, second Thursday each month. 
Football Week, culminating in the ND-Stanford contest October 26, was a success in everything but its climax, thanks to a committee including BILL McGOWAN, TOM KERNAN, ED RECKER, JOE SAIDY, JOE BO^VEN, JAY FARRON, BILL WAGNER, JACK DOUGHERTY, ED MADIGAN, JL\! COYLE, ANDRE PROVOST, and TOM HOODE. 
Arrix-al of special guests, including the Four Horsemen, was followed by a luncheon on Tuesday at the San Francisco Touchdown Club. The team and coaches arrived Thursday to stay at San Mateo's Villa Hotel. On Friday an Alumni Club Presidents luncheon and a press dinner, sponsored by Stan­ford, led up to a rally at California Hall, cock­tails before and after the game, Sunday Mass and the team's departure. 
Ohio Valley 
The following members of our club were among those attending the class reunions in June: FRAN­CIS J. WALLACE, Litt. B. '23; GEORGE J. SARGUS, Ph.BC '28; and *VM. H. MITSCH, BSEE '33. 
Five students from our area started to Notre Dame this Fall. The>' are: Robert Haggcrt>% Mingo, Junction, Ohio; Charles Wakh, East Liverpool, Ohio; Charles Gcracc, East Liverpool, Ohio: Philip Barilla, Steuben%*ille, Ohio; and Richard Herrick, New Slartinsville, W. Va.. son of alumnus WIL­LU M HERRICK. 
EDMUND SARGUS, .AB '33, LL.B. '31, St. 
MIKE DOYLE, RAY TROY, TOM FARLEY, 

ERNIE MASINI, ROGER and JIM FITZSIM-PHIIJADELPHIA — A large alumni delegation tinned out for ibe September 17 MONS, PAT TIMMINS, BILL WALDRON, TOM dinner of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick honoring the Four Honemen. Still 
O'CONNELL and ED VON HOENE. 

in playing trim, they are shown with Jim Leydon (center), president of the 
In spite of a five-foot telegram dispatched to the campus by Gov. Hughes (abetted by MOOSE MAT­

ND Club: (from left) Don Miller, Elmer Layden, Jim Crowley, Harry Stuhldreher. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 21 
Clairsville, Ohio, is serving his second term as State Senator. HARRV L. BUCH. BSC '52, LL.B. *55, Wheeling, W. Va., is serving his second term in the 
W. Va. House of Delegates. —\VM. H. MITSCH, Secy.-Trcas. 
Oiraha-Council BlufFs 
Tlie club held a ver>- successful fall outing on Thursday, September 5th, beginning with 18 holes of golf on an ideal sun-filled afternoon. Following the exercise portion of the program, about 40 alumni and students retired to the Boys Town cabin over­looking the picturesque Elkhom River Valley. On hand to prepare the staples, following an extended social hour, was LOU FINOCCHAIRO, who again served as head chef for the evening. .-Vmong those attending were several students who spent the eve­ning updating some of the ''old-timers" on current campus activities. Also in attendance was ''Man of the Year" HERB SANfPSO.V, a regular at all club affairs. 
This was the first function under the direction of the 1963-G4 officers: JIM BUCKLEY, president: DR. JIM LE.\HY, vice-president; TOM FORTUNE *57, treas.; and the undersigned. 
—BOB DUXX '44, Secv*. 

Peoria 
On Sunday, July 28, the Pine Lakes Golf Club was the location for the first annual Notre Dame Club of Peoria golf outing. .About 20 St. Ambrose College alumni and friends joined the same number of Notre Danitr men tor 18 holes. Refreshments and fine steaks were served afterv^'ard. J.ACK POWERS .AB '53, who had qualified earlier that same day for the Peoria Golf .Association tourney, was chairman. Our newest club member, JlSl FOOHEV AB '36 won the low net prize and a raffle for five of the steaks. DICK BENKENDORF BSC '60 shot a 73 for low gross honors. Jack, in­cidentally, finished second in both the city tourney and the Ml. Hawley tournament. TIM GORMAN AB 'GO, though shooting sub-par rounds, was elimi­nated in the city. 
Your prayers arc requested for the repose of the soul of Mrs. Nclle Roark. the mother of P.AUL ROARK BS '37 and grandmother of Mike, class of '65. Also, please pray for a special intention for the benefit of one of our local club members. 
MIKE RITSCHELL BS '62. a Glee Clubber while in school, starred as Marius in "Fanny," a Corn-stock production. Mike is doing post-graduate work on his law degree at Texas U. 
GENE BSC '44 and JOHN SLEVIN LLB '60 recently announced the opening of a new Peori? enterprise, the Slevin Corrugated Container Corp. TTic new plant is already under construction in Pio­neer Industrial Park and should be ready for pro­duction soon. 
The Ladies Auxiliarv- of the Notre Dame Club of Peoria held a fashion show at Ml. Hawley C. 
C. in earlv October. The successful show was staged by JERRY GROOM BSC '51, who Is in the process of moving to St. Louis. JERRY WOMBACHER '51 has been transferred to Louisville by his com­pany, Fleming-Potter. And there have been a lot of recent clianges within the local area. If you know of any wc arc not aware of, let us know. Arc you receiving our bulletins? An updated mem­bership list is available if you need it. 
Tlie Fourth Annual Back-to-SchooI Dinner featured former coach Jl.M GIBBONS and DA\^ID RAHN, winner of tlie Lt. JAMES A. G.-VSSIDY Memorial Award for Academic Acliicvement. JOHN M.ANION v^'as cliairman. 
—RICHARD C, BENKENDORF, BS '60, Sccv% 

Philadelphia 
A Notre Dame Bon Voyage Party was held on the evening of Sept. 9. Chaimian JACK LIEBERT cliartcred the 400-passenger "Showboat" for a cruise on the Delaware River to launch the 1951 season. There were free beverages and dancing to a seven-piece orchestra. Dixieland, etc. A meeting followed on Sept. 10. 
FR. TOM O'DONNELL, C.S.C., sent a letter of thanks to all who worked to make the Gettysburg Centennial a success. 4,000 souls were privileged to participate in the first Field Mass ever celebrated at the" Gettysburg Peace Light. He wrote: "With­out the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia wc could not have put the event across. Tliank them not only in my name but in the name of Father Hcs­burgh and all here at Notre Dame." 
CHARLIE CONLEY was chairman of the all-expense plane trip to the Southern Cal game via Chicago. There was a drawing for a trip for two plus S>-racuse tickets at the Oct. 8 meeting at the 
22 Notre Dame AlumnuSj Year End, 1963 
PEORIA—Fourth Annual Back-to-School 
Dinner in September had (lop, l.-r.) 
chairman John Manion '56 introducini; 
Da^id Rahn '64, dinner of the Cassidy Award for Academic Achievement, and Jim Gibbons *52, speaker from the campus. 
In foreground are Mrs. Boyd Rahn, 
David's mother, and John £. Cassidy, who donates the award in memory of his son, the late Lt. James A. Cassidy. 
Philopatrian Club. A Syracuse game trip on the Pennsylvania R.R. was under the chairmanship of JACK HENRY. And from Oct. 5 to the end of the season, a Saturdav morning Mass was offered by MSGR. McDONOUGH at Our Lady of Mercy Church for HUGH DEVORE and the '63 Irish. 
The Club took part in First Friday Luncheons and a Nov. 12 meeting at the Philopatrian Club, and Universal Notre Dame Communion Breakfast \vas scheduled for Dec. 8. »iih FRANK SPANIEL as chairman and HUGH DEVORE as guest speaker. 
Phoenix 
On June 30th, the Club had its annual suim party and picnic at the St. Francis Xavier pool. Some 125 persons in all sorts of gear turned out for a cool swim, good cats and plenty of cold beer, the three ingredients for a fun filled evening on the desert. 
The .\ulumn Stag party was set for October 15th thanks to our friendly treasurer, who decided to foot the bill. Hoped to set the stage for the Christmas Dance, coming election of officers and other events. 
—JIM CORCORAN, Sec>-. 

Pittsburgh 
On July 15, 19G3, the Club held its annual Sum­mer Picnic and Swimming Party at the Communitv Swimming Club. LEE TADDONIO and DON BEBENEK, our prcs., made the arrangements. Many of the couples who attended planned combined meals ahead of time, which helped take the toad off the wives who took the clilldren to the pool in the afternoon and waited there for hubby to arrive from work. It was a well planned, well attended affair which provided a relaxing and refreshing change on a hot July evening. I have my doubts, however, that those who engaged in the long-to-be­remembercd touch football game will agree with the last; that game was reminiscent of the old Notre Dame vs. Army series. 
Shannopin Country* Club was hi~-;t to the Club Divot-Takers this year. Tlie annual golf outing was held September 10, 196*^, cinder the capable chair­manship of SMOKEY COYNl' Tliere was a story circulating a few days later that Shannopin was putting in a new sand trap on No. 15 at a spot where Smoke>* ALLEGEDLY went to vvork with his number nine iron and had to record an unprintable number of strokes. It was a fine outing and all who attended praised the course and its facilities. 
Freshman Orientation Night was held September 6, at the University Club. Thirty-five freshmen and their dads attended. BERNIE POWERS and WAL­TER DEBRONSKI, president of the student section of the Club, addressed the new students and an­swered questions concerning their newly chosen Uni­versity. 
The Club Is proud to announce that JAMES BRIDGEMAN was named the recipient of its Annual Scholarsliip Award, which is made possible by various Club activities Including the Christmas Dance. Jim attended South Catholic High School. Indicative of his outstanding scholastic qualifications Is the fact that Jim received the scholarship In his Junior year and, after completing that year went directly to the University. Wc wish him well. 
December 27tli is the date of our Chrbtmas Dance to be held at the Pittsburgh Field Club. Tlie ver>­popular Jack Purcell and his band will provide the music. DAN BEGGY, '57, and FRANK CONTE, *56, arc co-chairmen and are presently engaged in making final arrangements. As alwa>-s, a gala eve­ning is in store for all. 
The Starr Insurance .-\gcnc\' vvhlcli has its office In Beaver Falls, Pa., was recently purchased by our vice-president, GEORGE BROWT^*. We wish' him success in this hew endeavor. 
Our Annual Retreat will be held Januarv 3, 4. and 5, 1964, at St. Paul's Monasierv. GEORGE KINGSLEY, JACK MONTEVERDE, JOE TOT­TEN, and GEORGE BROWN, our old faithful, arc handling reservations and arrangements. 
—MICHAEL J. BOYLE, Sccv-. 

Rhode Island & Southeastern Mass. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Rhode Inland and Southeastern Mass. held its Annual Golng-Away Party for new Freshmen on September 5, 1963 in Scckonk, ^^ass. Eight new students were guests of our Alumni Club and all of these young men brought their parents with ihcm. 
The cocktail hour preceding dinner vvas a vcrv' enjoyable part of the evening as the new students and their parents met the alumni, their wives, and the upperclassmen who were present. This gave the freshmen a chance to discuss with the upperclassmen some of the questions they had regarding their first vear at Notre Dame. 
After dinner. Club President PHIL TOOLE '52 introduced F.\THER ROBF-RT NEWBOLD, our chaplain, from Our Lady of Providence Seminary. Father Newbold congratulated the new students and told them of the verv* high scholastic standards tlicv would find at .Notre Dame. ANDY McMAHON '35 spoke of how fortunate these new students were to be attending Notre Dame. He cautioned them to accept what the University required of them with the proper attitude and the>* would get the most out of their four years at Notre Dame. 
Dinner chairman DICK DELMONTE '54 intro­duced each new freshman to the alumni and wished them luck in their years at Notre Dame. 
President Phil Toole announced the new officers for the coming year: ED DENNING '50. president: AL GRZEBIEN '49, vice-president; DICK DEL­MONTE '54, treasurer; and FRANK CO.XFORTI *43, secrctar>*. 
Our new president, Ed Denning, announced that he would be calling a meeting of new officers soon lo discuss plans for tlic coming year. 
The members of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Rhode Island and Southeastern Mass. wish to congratulate past President Phil Toolc on the out­standing job he did as the leader of our club. He 15 a credit to hts familv and to Notre Dame. 
—RICHARD F. DELMONTE, Treas. 

Rochester 
ROY HANNA '52 cliairman ned a most successful Family Picnic held Saturday, July 13th, at Mendon Ponds Park. Record quantities of beer and pop were consumed on a perfect summer day. JACK DUF­FEY '35 won "Best Athlete" award. 
On Thursday, August 29th, an orientation meeting for new freshmen and their parents was held at the Notre Dame Retreat House. PETE STAHL 'M, president of the Rochester N.D. Campus Club, was master of ceremonies. He and his fellow officers did a magnificent job. Movies of Notre Dame, Knute Rockne and the N.D. Football Highlites of '57 were shown. JACK DUFFEY '35 spoke for the Rochester alumni and President JIM DOYLE '51 briefly told of our Club's activities. 
The annual Fall Ticket Raffle, our major fund raising activity for our scliolarship program, was headed this year by PAUL PARKER '49. He.was 
aided by assistant chairman JOE KENNEY. Tliis year's prize is two free tickets and a weekend in Xew York City for the Syracusc-X.D. game. 
It seems that a great number of Rochester Club members planned to attend tlic Syracuse game. TOM KEEGAN '60 and wife Aon have had reserva­tions at the Park-Sheraton Hotel since early June. 
DON BOOTH '49, our most recent "Sim ol the Year" winner, has accepted the position as our new Xotre Dame Foundation cliainnan. Another former ".V.D. Man of the Year" winner, TO.M ME.^GHER '36, has distinguished himself again in Rochester by becoming president of the Monroe County Bar ;\sso­ciation for '63-'&4. 
It was only a matter of time. DON CORBETT JR. '58 has become engaged. Tlie big day is May 30, 1964, and the bridc-to-bc is Batbara Smith of Albany, .V. Y. 
PHIL YAW.MAN '62 has recently become affiliated with Bourne's Office Supply Corp. as a sales repre­sentative. Xcwcomer to Rochester is ED SHADD '58, He's an engineer witli Xerox Corp. and hails from Fayetteville, X. Y. 
September saw the return of DICK MEYER '58 to Rochester. .Mter graduation Dick was an officer w-ith tile U,S. Marines for two years. This was followed by law school at Xortlnvcstern University, where during his spare time he tended bar at the East Inn in Chicago—well known to all Domers. Xow living at 265 Long Acre Rd., Dick is associa­ted with the Kecnan, Carroll, Harris, Clcarv-&. Beck law firm in the Powers DIdg. 
The highlight of the Holiday Season in Rochester, the annual Xotre Dame Christmas Dance is sched­uled for Saturday, December 28th. 
—J. D.WID SAMUELSOX '60, Secy. 
Rockford 
Congratulations to Judge AL 0'SULLIVx\X, an active members of the Xotre Dame Club of Rockford since it started, on being named chief judge of the 17th Circuit. 
—AL aVRROLL 
Rome, Italy 
Our proudest Roman boast: The Holy Father, P.AUL Vt is an X.D. alumnus. Class of '60. As with PIUS XII, we hope to induct PAUL VI into local club in the spring at time of the Fourth xMumni Pilgrimage 
Second boast: Presentiv with us arc FR. HES­BURGH and FRAXK FOLSO.M, returned from Vienna to report to Holy Father on the Atomic Energv' meet. 
R. I. P.: BROTHER THEOPHAXE SCHMITT, C.S.C., deceased in Liberia following an auto acci­dent, was in Rome our prime benefactor. His material and moral assists put the X.D. Hospitality Center on its feet. 
Xcw arrivals: DENIS GILL '63, to study post­grad architecture at the Univcfsity of Rome; Alumni Office alerts us to arrival in Leghorn of E\RL WOLTER '37, for a mission with the U. S. Anny. 
Returnees: JOHN KRUEGER '49, with Stars & Stripes in London; GORDON DIREXZO '57, with Fairfield University, Conn.; BILL BRISICK '56, honeymooning with wife, invaluable volunteer hosts at the Center. 
Coiinctl Bishops dropping in: Bishop R, J, Dc­larg>', Auckland, New* Zealand, Benedict D. Coscia, O.F.M., Brazil, Clarence J. Duhart, C.SS.R., Tliailand, Jerome Pechillo, TOR, Paraguay, Eustace Smith, O.F.M., Lebanon, Vincent Waters, Raleigh, .V. C , VINCEXT .McCAULEY, C.S.C., Uganda, and George A. Hammes, Superior, Wis., cousin of Romy Hammes. 
Summer Stream: SR. BOXAVEXTURE, O.S.F., summer '37; TO.M CLE.MS '44, J. B. FUSTER '62, JOHN GALL.AGHER '60; TO.M PRUSHA '63, son of FRANK '38; MICHAEL RYAX, TED PIX­TO and JERRY ZEIHAN all '63; ROX.ALD GIL­LES, PETER LITREXTA, P.AT O'NEIL, JI.M SULLIVAX, and DAN TWOMEY, all '64. 
DAX O'GARA '62, ANDREW AUTH 'M, FRANK .MELLEXO JR. '65, JOSEPH STIXEMAX and GEORGE MURPHY 'St, FR. ART PERRY '52, FR. GERALD KRAUS, sunmier '62; ROBERT DALE '63, FRAXK PENDERGAST '27; BURNETT BAUER '66 with John, son of Coach JOHNNY JORDAN, BRO. IVO REGAN, C.S.C., '41, BRO. RICHARD SITOSE '51, DON McXElLL '63 (Hon. Degree). 
BRI.AN QUIXX '62, MARY JO SHIPP QUIX '62 (one of few female alumni), JI.M -MORAX and AL KORENJALE '63, RICHARD AUDIXO '53; HARRY PATH, JOHN' WOODS and GAREY CONWAY, all '63; JOE MO.VAHAN '64, MARTY SULLIVAX 'M, BOB STEPSIS 'G3, HOWARD LEN­FANT '63, JOHN .McDOXNELL '57, TOM DUNN '56, BOB JOHXSTOX '63, BILL HARDIGG JR. 

RHODE ISLAND & S.E. MASS. —Philip B. Toole '52 (left), executive vice-president of Fitzgerald-Toole & Co., overlooks an interview for "Jack ZiUy's Football Forecast" show sponsored by his firm on local TV. Principals on Brou-n U. practice field: (from left) Milt Piepul '41, Brown assistant football coach; Jack Zilly '47, former colleague, now head coach at the U. of Rhode Island; and Chris Barnes, TV sports director, cousin of ND's Leo Bamhoist '52. 
'63, BILL BRODERICK '61, C. TRAVIS -MAR­

SHALL '48, L.\RRY EGRY '60, and later mother St. Louis 
and father. Prof. C. EGRY. On Monday evening, September 9. the St. Louis 
BRS. EDWARD DALEY '61, GER,\RD .M.ASOX Club held its annual Freshmen Send-off Part>-. 
'62, and Li\WREXCE STEWART, C.S.C.. '61; Nineteen freshmen from the St. Louis area were 
D.WID CUSACK '65, JOHX FACEXDA '59, Mrs. invited to attend with their dads. This year it 
BYROX KiVXALEY and Grandniecc Chris; Dr. was held outside at CONNIE LANE's '57* home. 
and .Mrs. ALEX JARDINE with Dr. and Mrs. A buffet and refreshments were ser\ed. JOHN 
DQX'ALD D.AKE both men on XD summer facul-POELKER '&f, president of the St. Louis Campus 
tv, .MIKE MURPHY, TOXY FRIED.M.VXN, PAUL Club, spoke lo the young men about studies, ac­
DOXOVAX and JOHX Mc&VBE, all '63; HAL tivities and the religious opportunities they would 
.McXEILL '6»; MICKEY O'BRIEX, TO.M DIXA find at Notre Dame. A movie and question and 
and PAT SULLIVAX '62 answer session followed. Alumni Club past presi­
DEXIS OWENS '61. BR. ETIEXXE COOPER 

dents and board members present were DR. MATT '41; BRS JOHX DOXXELLY and GER.M.AXUS 
WEIS '22 DR. BERT COUGHLIN '2S. JACK BURXS '42, C.S.C; FR. A. PICARD C.S.C., 
GRIFFIN '39, VINCE FEHLIG, *^, DON R.ATCH­PAUL TIERXEY JR., BOB HOLM.AX; JIM 
FORD '50, BOB CHICKEY »54, JI.M PUDLOWSKI GINTY, IRVING LUSK, CHRIS K.VLMUS, all 
^54, JOHN PHELAN, JERRY McGLYNN '60, '64; JOHX XEUMAYER '54, WALLACE JOXES 
JACK CRO^\XEY '57. BOB M&\ULIFFE *55, JOE '60; DICK BRILLIOTT, .VIA '61; HAROLD 
ROHS, '57 and MARK MALEY '57. A special VOGEL '63. STEVE .MAC.MAXUS '66. DICK 
thanks to CONNIE L.ANE '57 for being such a MARTIX '63, AL PERIXI '61, JOHX BOYL.\X 
wonderfid host. '63, WALTER DOXXELLY '29, JUDGE WM. 
The Xotre Dame Soccer team visited St. Louis LiXWLESS '44. 
during the first week of October for two games. In 

CAPr. »\'ALTER HILLES US.V '43. COL. JOHX the first thc>' met the finest college soccer team HIXKEL '29, DR. BROCK L'i'XCH '43: BRS. and defending NC-VA champions, St. Louis U., and GILES MARTIX, JOHN ZOFUXORIX, VINCE.NT were defeated 8-1. This one goal is the only one GROSS, C.S.C.; PAT CALLAHAN '65, SR. AL-scored on St. Louis in si.x games so far this year. PHOXSLVXE de SION '62. TI.M MORIARTY '6i. Two days later they defeated Washington U. 3-1. .MOSE GLYNN '61, CAPT. LOUIS DOERR '53, Best of luck to the team during the rest of the 
TERRY MORIARTY '67, THEORO.N O'CONNOR season. 
'64, ROY RUBELI '61, JA.MES LEE '62, JOHN KOSTER '63, KEVIN WHELAN '60. PAT MO.VA-On Friday October 11th over sixty alumni and H.\N '62, LT. RICHARD BENOIT USX '59, PAUL friends left for South Bend on our club's annual BUTLER JR. '58, GEORGE CU.M.MI.VCS '34, FR. Football Special. A trip to Chicago on the Wabash, JOH.\ MACKEY Ph.D. '63; WTit. SOULE '61, two nights at the Pick-Congress Hotel, and a bus with wife Pcggv- S.MC '62; VIXCE &\RNEY '28, ride to Notre Dame and back, all made for a very PETER .MOULDER '42, FR. FR.AXCIS PHEL^VN enjoyable weekend. The Irish never looked better C.S.C., JUDGE JOHX CULUX.AX '28; DEXXIS in defeating So. California 17-14. Our thanks to FAR.MER and ERXEST EATOX HI '65 (both year BOB CHICKEY* *54, our trip chairman, for an 
abroad Loyola U., Rome), FR. JERO.ME ESPER excellent job and an ctciting weekend. 
C.S.C. '58, RICHARD CORSO '62, TOM FLYNN The St. Louis Club will hold Its next function '35; LT. JEROME TRAUTSCHOLD '59, U.S. 
on Sunday, December 8, with our annual Com­Army (who wheeled the first baby carriage into munion Sunday. Tentative plaiu have been set to the Center, with John Jerome in it). 
have the Mass at the Basilica of St. Louis (Otd Cathedral) with the brunch held afterwards at the 
LT. and Mrs. LAWRENCE S. MILLER '60, 
Missouri Athletic Club. More information will be U.S. Armv; FR. CYRIL SPELTZ CS.C. '59, FR. 
forthcoming to local alumni shortly. 
JOHN ROURKE CS.C. '59, JOHN -MacXXXAS '53, JOE KANE '28, LEX SKOGLUXD JR. '38. 

Our annual Christmas dance will be held on JOE KISSLING '28, RAY DREXLER Law '58, 
Saturday, December 21. Keep this date open and JOE HAGGAR '45. 
get a party together. ME.MO: ROME'S XOTRE D.VME HOSPITALI­
We regret to report the death of one of our TY CEXTER OPE.V EVERY D.\Y ALL D.AY. 
local alumni who was a recent graduate of the THE ADDRESS: L.ARGO BfcVXCACCIO 82 TELE-
University. 2nd LT. PAUL J. RETTIG '62, U.S..A. PHOXE: 730.002. 
was killed .Aug. 2, 1963, in a jeep accident dur­ing the Project Swift. Strike Maneuvers in South —VIXCE .McALOOX '34, Secv. 
Carolina. Our sympathy and prayers arc also 
extended to JOHN F. HIGGINS JR. '48, whose 

father died recently; and likewise to ROBERT F. St. Joseph Valley TORRENCE '47, whose dad passed away June 22. A commiltire of lawyer members of the Club Congratulations to THOMAS J. ^VHITE '37 and organized a Red Mass in July in honor of St. his wife Bert upon the birth recently of a son, Thomas More, patron of lawyers. It was cele­Tom Jr. Tom is our 1963 Man of the Year and brated in St. Patrick's Church, South Bend, and Notre Dame Foundation Special Gifts chairman. followed by Breakfast at the Indiana Club. South Once more we invite any alumnus liWng in the Bend's legal fraternity and their wives \vcrc invited. St. Loub area to contact lu so that We can* place 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963^, 23 
your name on our mailing lisl. We know that you will enjoy our Club's functions and we hope to sec vou soon. 
—HERMAN L. KRIEGSHAUSER '54, Prcs. 

San Antonio 
On September II, the San Antonio Club honored the nine students returning to or entering the Uni­versity this fall at a barteque supper. Among the 67 persons present were alumni, parents and a number of Notre Dame friends. Mr. FOREST COTTON*, a Monogram leltcrraan of the 1920-24 era, was also present. 
As to future events, we planned to have an early November meeting to view the 1962 fooball highlights and to discuss the possibilities of a Christ­mas cocktail party. These events we'll report on later. 
—WILLIAM E. L.\MM, Prcs. 

San Gabriel Valley 
On July 4, 1963, we held an old fashioned fourth of July family picnic We had a marvelous crowd of Notre Dame families with cvcrj'one extremely enthusiastic and deeply interested in our patriotic theme. 
Evcr>'one enjoyed picnic lunclics, swimming (in­cluding swimming games for the cliildren), band music, and speeches given by the San Gabriel Valley Notre Dame ofHcers, which included the Constitu­tion of the United States, Gettysburg Address, and Declaration of Independence. 
A \'er>' special thank you and deep appreciation goes to SID SIDENFADEN for the use of his spacious grounds, which played a big part in the success of this event. Wc arc looking for^vard to other equally successful functions. 
—DO.V BRADY 

Spokane 
The annual Summer Outing of the Xotrc Dame Club of Spokane was enjoyed on Sundav. August 
11. Club President DR. JIM ROTCHFORD, '48, and his gracious wife, Mar>*, were the hosts at the most attractive Rotchford cottage on beautiful Haydcn Lake, Idaho. Weather was ideal and the conviviality abundant. The following Club members with their wives, families and a few friends, thoroughly enjoyed the aflfair: ED BETHKE, '28; FRANK HAGENBARTH, '27; FR^VNK HERRON, '35; JOHN MICHAUD, '48; GARY MYERS, '59: RAV PENLAND, '56; DR. JIM ROTCHFORD, '48; DICK ST. JOHN, '56; R/\LPH SCHULLER, '57; BERNIE SMYTH, '55; and JOE WALSH, '14. 
The Fifth Annual Closed Retreat was made the weekend of September 6 at Immaculate Heart Re­treat House, Moran Prairie, Spokane. The Retreat Master was Father Bernard Nixon, S.J., and the Club members in attendance were well satlsBed with the exercises. It is to be greatly regretted that more members did not avail themselves of this won~ derful opportunity for spiritual refueling and rest­ful relaxation amid ideal surroundings. 
Tlie Club is mucli pleased to note that ten young men from Spokane arc presently students at the Universiiv. Included arc the sons of JIM LYNCH, '40, and VINCE SLATT , '43. Also cause for grati­fication is tlie presence of four alumni on the faculty of Gonzaga University, Spokane, viz: GERALD BERGUM, '62; JOHN McDERMOTT, *G2; RAY AfURPHV, '59; and DR. REMI DUBUQUE, *63. 
Plans are under way for the annual Communion Breakfast, whicli will be held on December Ist to avoid conflict with Holy Name Communion Sunday. 
—JOE WALSH '14, Seo'.-Treas. 

Terre Haute 
Actit^tles for the Notre Dame Club of Terre Haute are ofT to a good start. Saturday, October 5, members of the Notre Dame Club and their guests left Scliultc High School on a chartered bus for West Lafayette, Indiana, to see the Notre Dame-Purdue game. All members and guests, 40 total, had good time despite the score. Plans are in the talking stage for trip to Notre Dame next year. BERNIE BURDICK and MYRON BUSBY JR. were co-tJiairmen for the event. They were as­sisted by RAY KEARNS, BOB KIN*TZ, JIM SUL­LIVAN and FRED CHIUSTM.\N. 
The next event on the calendar for the Terre Haute Club is the Communion breakfast on Sun­day, December 8. Cbalrmim for this will be JIM BOYER. 
Mr. THOMAS J. KERNAN, Notre Dame alumni field representative, making an introductory tour of Indiana Clubs, visited with president BERNIE BURDICK and past pr^ldent JIM SULLIVAN. 
24 Notre Dame AlumnuSj Year End, 1963 
ST. LOUIS—Guests at a summer Sports Night of the N.D. Club, (l.-r.) Coach Hugh Devore '34 of Notre Dame and Coach Dan Devine of Missouri converse with Club President Herman L. Kriegshauser '54 at LcChateau Restaurant. Athletic directors of the two schools have discussed a home-and-home football series by the end of the decade, wth Missouri playing host in the forthcoming Busch Stadium. 
Current officers for the Xotrc Dame Club of Terre Haute, are: BERNIE BURDICK, president; JIM BOYER, vice-president; BOB KINTZ, sccre­tar>-; and CH.ARLES METZGAR, treasurer. 
-JI M BOYER, Vice-Pres. 

Triple Cities 
TIte University of Notre Dame Alumni Club of the Triple Cities held an Alumni — Father — Stu­dent ^Iixe^ on September 4 at Lou's Restaurant in Johnson City. Over 50 attended and enjoyed the Football Highlights of 1949 moWe. The group was disappointed that the sclieduled featured speaker, PAT FILLEY, assistant athletic director at Cornell University, who captained the 1943 National Cham­pionship and 1944 Notre Dame football teams, ^^'as unable to be with us due to Illness. Pat has assured us, however, that he will join us for a future event. 
Highlight of the affair was the unexpected pres­ence of the REV. FRANCIS J. HARRISON, Class of 1933. Father Harrison had just arrived In Bing­hamton that day to assume his duties as pastor of St. Patrick's Church and head of the Catholic Deaneries of Broome, Chenango and Cortland counties. Within a few weeks of his appointment as pastor. Father Harrison was named by Pope Paul \ 1 to the honoraty rank of domestic prelate and a member of the Papal household with the title of Right Reverend ilonsignor­
—JOHN J, O'ROURKE '49, Secy. 

CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA —It was an hanquct d Bishop Carroll High School in 
Toledo 
Newly selected ofHcers were announced at the club's early summer (June 6) celebration of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. They arc: JAMES SILK, '54, president; JOSEPH JASINSKI, '54, vice-presi­dent; BILL THEES, '57, treasurer; and TOM QUINN, '56, secretary. 
Tlie evening's varied program was highlighted by the presence of Dean WILLIAM BURKE, who spoke on the ne«- "Freshman College" concept at Notre Dame. Gridiron star DARRYL LAMONICA also informed the Toledo Alumni of the 1963 football prospects under Coach HUGH DE\''ORE. 
A June wedding this year seems to be a pre­requisite for holding the oflicc of Toledo Club presi­dent. On June 8th incoming prex\', Jim Silk, was married in Toledo, and on June 22nd the outgoing president, HAROLD "JOE" K.\LBAS, '56, was married In Chicago. Two other Toledo June wed­dings were those of MARTIN McCAULEY, '56, and JAMES ROSE, "57. Both were on June 29. 
Chairman DICK TORDA reports a large turnout for the club's annual golf day held August 17. GEORGE SCHMIDT uon lou- gross aivards, wliIlc low net went to NOEL BLANK. PAUL KILVUS received a trophy for the longest drive. JIM MALONE held the dubious honor of high score. 
Plans for the fall called for a Smoker, September 

10. Treasurer BILL THEES Is clialrman of this Alumni event honoring all Incoming Notre Dame freshmen and their fathers. 
—THOS. S. QUINN '56, Sco*. 

Washington^ D.C. 
With the resignation of BILL MIDDENDORF for family and business reasons, AL VIROSTEK was named in June to scr\e through the 1963-64 season. Activity since then has included: participation of Club families in the Gettysburg Field Mass on June 29; the Sug Golf Outing and Dinner on July II at Washington Golf and Country Club; the "Mar^-Iand" Cocktail Party July 28 at the home of D.AN CULHANE, Bethesda; the "Virginia" Cocktail Party August 25 at the home of DR. WALTER BRENNAN, Alexandria; and an exodus to the Syracuse game on Thanksgiving. 
Youngstown 
The Youngstown-Warrcn Notre Dame Club had Its Annual Golf Part>- June IB, at the New Castle Country* Club. It was a good Iiot day for the 75 mountain goats who played. BUD GRUGER '54 was in diarge. *'MOOSE" KR.AUSE gave us very bright hopes. Our own OLLIE HUN'TER was very much in cridence. 
Wc had a Dinner Meeting October ID, at which wc planned the remaining activities for the year. Wc planned participating In a College Career Night, October 27. ^\'c scheduled a Husband and Wife Dinner November 21; a Communion Breakfast on December 8; and a High School Football Introduc­tion Day so that prospcctives and their coaches can meet someone from the Notre Dame coaching stafT. 
—CHARLES B. CUSHWA HI. 

 aU-Irish occasion at the annual sports  Ebcnsbuig, Pa. Celebrities included: 
(l.-r.) Coach Hugh Devorc '34, principal speaker; iiaWKar^f Pete Duranko, a guest; Don Schcttig '30, chairman; and end Jim Kelly, guest and speaker. 
Miss Mary Jean Payton and DENNIS L. MAN-Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD D. SIMMONS '49, a 
GAN '60, June 13. daughter, Carol Eileen, September 12. Miss Marilyn Zehner and PETER COLEMAN Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE L. EMERSON '50, a son, McCASLAND '60, Monterey, Indiana, August 17. Michael Alan, June 12. Miss Judith Marie Dcttor and CARAM JOSEPH Mr, and Mrs. VINCENT P. GODDARD 'SI, a ABOOD '60, Notre Dame, Indiana, June 29. daughter, September 22. 
Classes 

Miss Jane Frances Darcy and NICHOLAS J. Mr. and .Mrs. ROBERT J. WADDICK '31, a 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Miss Emelie A. Jolly and VINCENT R. FER­MANDES '54. Miss Mar>- Patricia Donnellv and CONRJVD JOSEF SZUBERT "54. Miss Glenys Carmcl Lc Combe and WALTER RICHARD WEBER '36. Miss Anne Carol O'Brien and OWEN EDMUND DESMOND III '57, Princeton, Xci>- Jerscv. Miss Sallv Jane O'Brien and Dr. W1LLI.\M EDWIN DORENBUSCH '58. Miss Marj- Beth Cascv and FR.ANK E. O'BRIEN JR. '58. Miss Barbara Smith and DONALD C. CORBITT JR. '58. iliss Anne Cfiristinc Knapp and Capt. HARVEY JOSEPH FREM '59. Miss Jane B. MacManus and PAUL B. BERETZ '60. Miss Shirley A. Bill and JOHN MICHAEL GA.MBLE '60. Miss Maureen Anne 0*Sulli\'an and GERALD P.ATRICK LALLY '60. Miss Susen Elizabeth Skarl and LEONARD 
JOSEPH scHMrrr JR. '6O. Miss Genevieve DuBois and JOHN E. HUTCH­INGS '61. Miss Marj- F. Folcv and USMC Lt. RAPILVEL MICHAEL KELLY '61. Miss Catherine Stephanie Bigley and PETER JOH.V .McGO\'ERN '61. Miss Annette Kcnncr and KARL E. ROESLER •62. Miss Joyce Ellen Merrill and WILLI.AM O. FRAILEY rv '63. Miss Ruth Ellen Dowling and PAUL J. KELLY JR. '63. Miss Nano' L>Tin VanUura and Jx\MES NEAL LANGWORTHY '63. Miss Mary Jane Andrcski and Army Lt. JAMES R. McNAMEE '63. Miss Shirlcc Yvonne Dc Meyer and JEROME WILLIAM SCHMIDT '63. 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Julie Barata and DR. DAVID GUY POWERS *33, Westport, Connecticut, August 5. Miss Patricia Lily Gill and JOSEPH SCOTT HI '52, Westwood, Calilornia, September 7. Miss Sue Ellen Spencc and JEROME EDWARD BURNS '55, Saginaw, Michigan, August 3. Miss Barbara June Schubmehl and HARRY ED­WARD PREI.N '55, South Bend, Indiana, June 22. Miss Patricia Margaret Michabki and EDWARD 
G. .MURPHY '55, South Bend, Indiana, June 29. 
Miss Mary Margaret McKay and LOUIS J. NL\L.\NDRA '56, McKccsport, Pennsvlvania, Oc­tober 27, 1962. 
Miss Joan Elaine Bergener and GERALD PATRICK SHEA '56, Eastdiester, New- York, September 14. 
Miss Louise Ann Wcssling and ALLAN JAMES MALVICK '37, St. Louis, Missouri, June 29. Miss Marilyn Rae Zalokar and GEORGE JOHN BERNAT "58, Cleveland, Ohio, June 8. 
Miss Frances Kathrj-n Keller and RALPH VIN­CENT aAP.ASSO JR. '58, Notre Dame, August 17. Miss Judith Ann ScidI and DR. JOHN P.ATRICK 
HOGAN '38, Rocky River, Ohio, June 22. 
Miss Barbara Jeanne Sdiw-ab and LOUIS EDWARD LaGRAND '58, Garden City, L.I., New-York, July 6. 
Miss Christine D'Aniour and DR. MICHAEL V. HERMAN '58, Holyokc, ilass., June 29. Miss Mary Jane Sdiocn and FREDERIC JOHN MOWLE '59, South Bend, Indiana, June 22. 
Miss Eileen Anne Gannon and JOSEPH THOM­AS KENNEY '59, Jersey City, New Jersey, May 4. Miss Mary Anne Spellman and JOHN E. 
McGRATH '59, Cleveland, Ohio, August 3. Miss Mary Carol White and ROBERT J. KLEIN *39, Chariton, Iowa, September 28. Miss Kathryn Coyne and JAMES M. KEEGAN *59, Scranton, Pennsylvania, September 21. Miss Anne Marie Bordonaro and LOUIS V. MANZO '59, Olean, New York, August 24. 
Miss Mary Filcppa Scafuro and NOR.MAN A. ODYNIEC, '59, Allendale, New Jersey, June 22. Miss Ann Meagher and GEORGE W. VANDER 
VENNEL, JR., '39, August 21. 
HEALY IV '60, Bay Shore, L.I., New York, August 18. Miss Lorctta Ann Laco and JERO.ME C. HENS­LER '60, Lakcwood, Ohio, September 8. 
Miss Paula Jane Kee and GEORGE ALEXAN­DER HORV.4TH '60, Indianapolis, Indiana, August 3. 
Miss Katherinc Patricia Morrissey and MICHAEL ROBERT KOPCSIK '60, Port Jefferson, L. I., New York, September 21. 
-Miss Sally Ann Work and ROBERT J. KRINER '60, Cleveland, Ohio, June 22. Miss Kalhy Cobb and LEONARD A. MR<\CHEK '60, -New York City, June 22. MUs Mars- Elizabeth Cain and PAUL ARTHUR RIFFEL '60, South Bend, August 10. Miss Pegg5- Ann Lydcn and CHARLES E. BUCKLEY '61, Youngstow-n, Ohio, June 29. Jfiss Elizabeth Ann Hammer and ROBERT JOHN McCLOSKEY '61, Poland, Ohio, August 24. Mbs Mary Katherinc Ryan and RICH.\RD PAUL MILLER '61, Cleveland Heights, Ohio, June 22. 
Miss Carol Mary Weber and LT. RONALD JOSEPH SZWEDA '61, St. Louis, -Missouri, July 31. 
Miss Patricia Ann Byrd and LT. ROBERT CHARLES DcMEESTER '61, Marietta, Georgia, July 6. 
Miss Carol Ann Clauer and MICHAEL VINCENT METALLO '61, South Bend, Indiana, June 22. Miss Ann Bennett and WILLIAM JOSEPH BRUT\',VN, JR. '62, Notre Dame, September 14. 
Miss Rebecca Ann Ebcrhart and LT. PAUL LEONARD MENNUCCI '62, Mishaw-aka, Indiana, June 22. 
Miss Molly Hclene O'Brien and DONALD LAW­RENCE CRIQUI '62, Buffalo, New York, August 10. 
Miss Susan Mary Stowell and MICHAEL FRAN­CIS FrrZPATRICK '62, Notre Dame, July 20. 
Mbs Barbara Eleanor Mouch and ALBERT JA.MES HAMILTON '62, Sandusky, Ohio, Sep­tember 7. 
Miss Dar>l J. Yavner and WILLIAM O'CON­NOR HARNISCH '62, New York City, August 9. Mbs Joan Mousaw and JOHN J. McGUIRE JR. 
'62, in July. 
Mbs Nano- Clare Leusch and THO.MAS .^H­CHAEL QUINN '62, Pittsburgh, PennsyK-ania, August 18. 
Miss Madeline Agnes Devore and LT. THO\L\S JOHN WEBER '62, Notre Dame, August 24. 
-Miss Kathleen Anne .McCabe and PETER VIN­CENT BISCONTI JR. '63, Bronsville, New York, August 29. 
Mbs Barbara Mari- Kikel and EDWARD GIL­BERT CRUMP '63, Voungstown, Ohio, .August 24. Mbs Jacqueline Ramclla and ROBERT VER­NON D.AHLKE '63, Rocky River, Ohio, August 31. Mbs Nancy Mac Garson and LT. DAVID J. 
DEKA '63, South Bend, August 31. Miss Alice Joy Kasman and LARRY JOEL GERSTEIN '63, New- York City, August 25. Mbs Sandra K. VanParb and BERNARD J. GORSKI '63, Granger, Indiana, August 25. Miss Mary Ann Dunn and D.WID A. TAR­WACKI '63, Notre Dame, July 20. Miss Jane Marie Moskw-inskI and JOHN J. WILBER JR. '63, South Bend, August 24. Mbs Carol Joyce Ricker and M.ARTIN D. MEEKER '63, Sierra Madre, California, June 23. .Miss Audrey -Mat Wendcl and JA.MES E. JACK '63, Notre Dame, June 29. 
BIRTHS 
-Mr. and Mrs. THO.\fAS J. WHITE '37, a son, Thomas, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. RICH.'\RD A. ME.\D, JR. '41, a daughter. Sheila. JuFy 9. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES F. SPELLMAN '41, a son, James F., Jr.,'- September 9. ilr. and -Mrs. \VILLI<«f B. .MIDDENDORF '43, a daughter, Julia Marie,' June 27. Mr. and Mrs. ALVARO V. LESMEZ '45, a daughter, Susan Gaylc, August 14. Mr. and Mrs. FILVNK A. GIORD;\NO '47, a son, Michael, September 16. ilr. and Mrs. JAMES E. MURPHY '47, a son, Daniel Robert, October 4. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL A. COREY '48, a son, David Paul, August 29. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN T. DOYLE '48, a son, John Thomas, September 1. 
daughter, Mary Elizabeth, October 8. Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES V. FALKENBERG, JR. '52, a son, Robert Joseph, July 10. .Mr. and Mrs. ^VILLIAM B. GRAHA.M, JR. '52, a daughter, Mary Anne, June 15. Mr, and Mrs. JAMES C. ETLING '52, twins, Michael John and Patricia, September 6. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL R. FARMER, JR. '53, a daughter. Erica Rose, August 30. .Mr. and -Mrs. THOMAS J. CA.MPBELL '54, a son, Patrick John, June 20. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. CONNORS, JR. '54, a son, Peter Warren, June 25. Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL A. DePADRO '53, a daughter, Anne Michelle, September 7. Mr. and Mrs. G. RICHARD DONAHUE '53, a daughter, Megan Cecilia, September 4. Mr. and Mrs. DENNIS E. L.AUGHLIN '53, a son, Michael Patrick, August 24. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. McAULIFFE '55, a daughter, Ellen Nora, August 3. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. RONAN '56, a son, Kev-in Edward, June 30. -Mr. and Mrs, THDXIAS E. KANE '37, a son, Timothy, August 2. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS R. MARIANI '37, a daughter, Madeline Ann, October 4. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES F. MOLONEY '57, tivin sons, James Richard and John Paul, June 27. Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS A. PERRETTA '37. a daughter, Helenarose, August 14. -Mr. and Mrs. \L\RK N. STOREN '57, a son, Mark Nicholas, Jr., .August 7. .Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES L. ADIE '58, a son, John Kenneth, September 11. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT LOEFFLER '58, a son, August 5. _Mr. and Mrs. JOHN FRANKLIN H-AYW.ARD '59, a daughter, Elizabeth Shea, July II. -Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. HOL.MES '59, a daugh­ter, Cynthia Maria, April 20. Mr. and Mrs. DUNCAN L. LaVIGNE '39, a daughter, Patricia Mary, August 12. -Mr. and Mrs. HARRY D. LEINENWEBER '59, a son, John Dunn, July 24. Mr. and Mrs. GARY L. VONDRAN '59, a son, Patrick Michael. March 26. Mr. and Mrs. MILTON J. BEAUDINE '60, a son, Michael Joseph, July 24. Mr. and Mrs. NORBERT L. WIECH '60, a son, David Leonard, August 12. Mr. and Mrs. CLARKE H. ZESINGER '60, a daughter, Cynthia Ann, August 15. Mr. and .Mrs. ROBERT C. HETZLER '61, a son, Robert Scott, September 30. Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL D. BIRD '61, a daughter, Michelc Suzanne, June 30. Lt. and .Mrs. BRIAN C. REGAN, US.MC '61. a son. Douglas Patrick, August 21. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS A. ^VRALEN '62, a daughter, Joan Marie, September 14. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. tVILBR.AHAM '62, a son, Tliomas Francis, July 6. 
SYMPATHY 
BERNARD J. VOLL '17, on the death of hb wife, September 28. 
R. GERALD JONES '22 on the death of hb wife, July 29. JOHN C. O'DONNELL '24 on the death of hb father in September. HERM.AN G. CENTLIVRE '23 on the death of hb wife in August. HAROLD P. KLEIN '26 on the death of hb mother, July 29. ED.\fUND J. '27 and JERO.ME C. DE CLERCQ '28, on the death of their mother, October 3. GEORGE E. LEPPIG '28 on the death of hb father early in 1963. LAWRENCE F. STAUDER '29, on the death of hb mother, October 1. J.A.MES F. DOYLE '33 on the death of hb mother, June 19. PHIUP J. FAHERTY, JR. '33, on the death of his father in June. LEO W. HODEL '33, on the death of hb wife, June 17. CILARLES A. JAHR '34 on the death of hb wife, February 21. JAMES R. MORRISON '3t on the death of hb mother, September 27. 
EDWARD T. McNALLY '36 on the death of hb father, July 30. 

Noire Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 25 
BROTHER NIVARD MEICHTRY, C^.C , '39 on 

the death of his mother, July 5. 
LOUIS J. CENNI '40 on the death of his father, 

Julv 13. 
DR. CHRISTIAN RISSER '40 on the death of 

his wife, Januan* 7. 
WALTER A. SWEITZER JR., '40 on the death 

of his father, September 25. 
DONALD J. FITSGERALD '48 on the death 

of his father, January- 6. 
RICH.ARD F. '48 and FRANXIS X. KAYSER 

'48 on the deatlis of their parents. December 22, 
1962. 
RICHARD E. O'CONNELL, JR. '48, on the 

death of his fatlier, Mardi 8. 
ROBERT H. ENTRUP '49 on tlie death of Iiis 

father In August. 
JAMES R. FORD '49 on tlie death of his father. 
RAYMOND F. DUNNE '30 on the death of his 
mother. Julv 3. 
MATHIAS H. KERGER '32 on tlie death of lib 
mother. 
JOHN F. S.AND, JR. '54 on the death of his 
mother, February 2. 
WILLIAM J. NirSCHKE '5G on the death of 
his father. 
THO.\fAS J. .McNULT\' '57 on the death of his 
father, September 7. 
BEN M. SIRIANNI, JR. 'GO on the death of 
his father in July. 
WALTER P. STERLING 'Gl on the death of 
his father. 
JOHN T. DlCIiS '62 on the death of his father 
in Fehruar>'. 
DEATHS 

S.\M H. NUSSB.\UM 1887, a native of LaPorte, Indiana, died September 12 at San Diego, Cali­fornia. ^^^. Xussbaum and bis brother founded the Marion Conser\'ator>' of Music, .^fter spending most of his Hfc in the pursuit of music, he became successful in the insurance business. Surx'ivors in­clude a daughter and a son. 
ALOYSIUS J. RUMELY 1894, of LaPortc, Indiana, died Scplcmbcr 5, according to word re­ceived from his son. 
DR. RICHARD C. MOXAHAX 1898, a Butte. Montana, physician and surgeon nearly GO years, died August 29 after an extended illness. He %\'as actix'c in many civic, religious and athletic groups. Dr. ^lonahan was president many years of the ^Ion­tana State Handball .^Vssociation and became a nationally known figure in regard to handball. He is 5ur\'tvcd bx-a daughter and a son Dr. John R. '35. 
ROBERT J. PRICE '01 of Ekalaka, Montana died July 15. At tlie time of his death he operated a general store. His family surx'ives. 
JOHN' \V. DUBBS '03, ^fendota, Illinois, attor­ney, died April 18. He is sur^-ived by his widow, a daughter and sons James H. *32, John W., Jr. '39, Joseph A. '40 and Jerome L. '48. Also a grandson Patrick J. '60 and a brother James .\. 'OG. 
WILLIAM D. JAMIESON *05 of Chicago, Illi­nois, passed away September 17 after an extended illness. A retired president of an institutional sup­ply company, he formerly taught spcccli, English and dramatics at St. Edward^s College, Austin, Texas, and St. Thomas College, St. Paul. Minnesota. Surxivors include his wife, four daughters and four sons, including Richard Alan '50. 
JAMES D. JORD.AN '07, a Lackawanna. Penn­syK'ania, attorney died August 19 at his home in Scranton. He was ND Man of the Year in 1948. Survtx'ing arc his wife, daughter and Richard J. '51. 
WINFRED H. STEin^ '08 of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, died according to word recently re­ceived al the Alumni Office. 
RAYMOND T. COFFEY MO, died of a heart attack on September 8. He had practiced law in Omalia, Xefa., since 1912. He is sun'tvcd by his wife. 
NfYLES H. SINNOTT '10 of Lafayette, Cali­fornia, died October 5. His 5urx*ivors include his wife. 
RAYMOND L. Mc\'EAN '13, of River Forest, III., died in June according to word recently received in the Alumni Office from his daughter. 
HARRY B. TIERNEY '14 of Modesto, California, died June 12, according to word received at the Alumni OfHce. Mass and burial were held June 15. Mr. Tierney was associated with Standard Materials, Inc., Modesto. 
DR. EDWARD C. RYAN '15 of Chicago, Illinois, died July 13 in' his home. He was on the staffs of St. Bernard and St. George hospitals. He is sur­vived by his wife, a son and three daughters. 
26 Notre Dame Alumntts, Year End^ 1963 
CHARLES M. EG.-VX '20 of Washington, D.C. died July 20 in his home after a long illness. He was a retired sports editor ot the "^VashJngton Star." He started his reporting career in South Bend when he lived there. Survivors include his wife and two sons. 
JOHN P. HART '22 of Cincinnati, Ohio, died June 29 according to word received at the Alumni Office. No details. 
THOM.AS J. KE.\TING '23 of Highland, Indi­ana, died July 14, according to word received from liis %vife. 
WALTER J. (BUD) STAPLETON '24 of Bridge­port, Connecticut, died July 4 according to word received at the Alumni Office. No details. 
CHARLES R. BICKEL '25 of Munster, Indiana, passed away June 2G after a long illness. At the time of his death he was with the F.H.A. Gary, Ind., office. Mass and burial were in Elkhart, Ind. He is surxivcd by his wife, two daughters and a son. 
P.\UL A. HARTMxVN '25, pf Pittsburgh, Pennsyl­\-ania, died in September according to word recently received at the Alumni OfTicc. 
JEROME F. HERLIHY '25, of Ottawa, 111., died in September, 1961, according to word recently received in the Alumni Office. He is surx-ivcd by his wife. His four sons all predeceased him in their teens or early twenties from multiple sclerosis. 
EARL P. McaVRRON '25, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., died suddenly in Mt. Pleasant, Midi., on October 8. He had retired last year as the leading criminal attorney residing in Fairbanks, .\laska. Burial in Kenosha, Wise. His brother Ward W. LL.B. *25 sur*"i*"es him. 
PHILIP F. O'DONNELL '25 of Vincenncs, Indiana, died according to word recently received at. the Alumni Office. 
ALFRED C. NACHTEGALL '2G of Grand Haven, Michigan, died April 19 of a heart attack after a long illness according to word recently received at the Alumni Office. He was president of the former Nachtegall Manufacturing Company, Grand Rapids, Mich., until his retirement louT years ago, lie is surx'ived by his wife, a son James B. '51 and two daughters. 
C. PHILIP LYTLE '28 of Oil Citx-, PcnnsyK-ania, died June 23 in Erie, Pa-, while visiting friends. At the time of his death he was working for the Penn­syK^ania Electric Company. He was often the host for Irish footballers speaking in the Western Penn­svlvania area. Sisters survive in his native Clear­field. Pa. 
MON"r\* J. TENNES, JR. '28 of Chicago, Illi­nois, died August 18. He was plant manager at Chain Belt Company, Downers Grove and during \VorId War 11 was an air force officer. Sur\*ivors include liis wjfc, a son and two daughters. 
ROBERT A. BUST '29 of Ardmorc, Oklahoma, died .-\pril 3 according to word recently received from his son. 
REV. THOM.\S J. L,\NE. C.S.C. '29, a native of Merrill, Wisconsin, died September 25 in Corby Hall. Father Lane had been a ND faculty member since 1951. He was with the Radiation Laboratory and was directing several researdi projects sup­ported by the National Institute of Health. Sur­rivors include two brothers and a sister. 
JOSEPH J. WOZNIAK '29, an Akron, Ohio, at­torney, died August 4 after an extended illness. Mr. Wozniak and his late brother Steve '28 were aztive in civic, religious and ^D Club afTairs in Akron. His wife and two sons surx'ive. 
FREDERICK M. ZIMMERMAN '30 of Alton, Illinois, died September 24, 1962, according to word recently received at the Alumni Office. Mr. Zim­merman was formerly traffic manager for the East Alton plant, Olin Mathieson Chemical Corporation. 
WILLIANr B. CRONIN^ '31 of Hartford City, Indiana, died September 17, according to word re­cently received at the .Alumni Office. At the time of his death he w*as President of the Eastern Indiana ND Club. His wife survives him. 
MICHAEL J. HALLIGAN '31, of Denver, Colo­rado, died suddenly from a heart attack on July 25. 
WILLIAM J. T.\YLOR '31, of Flossmoor, Illinois, died about 1 year ago according to word recently received in the Alumni Office. 
JOSEPH G. COOKE '32 of MonticcIIo, New York, died September Jfi. .At tlie time of his death Mr. Cooke and Joseph Willis '32 were law partners. Sur\*ix'or5 include his wife, mother, a daughter and a son Joseph Jr. attending ND. 
D. EMMETT FERGUSON '32 of Lafayette, Indiana died August 6 aboard a plane. Surxivore include his wife and son, Daniel C. '61. 
JAMES J. WARD '32 sales consultant, of Stam­ford, Connecticut, died June 10, according to word recently received at the Alumni Office. Surxivors indude his wife, daughter and mother. 
ROBERT W. BUTLER 'St of Lakcwood, Ohio, died July 22 at Beverly Hills, California while on a business trip. He was a retired Air Force major and the commanding officer of an air freight tvfng dctadimcnt. While in scrxicc, he developed a new loading ramp, and on active duty in 1945 be lost an arm in an accident. Mr. Butler has been sales­man for both American Airlines and United Air Lines. He is survived by his wife, a daughter, three sons, and a brother John P. '27. 
BRO. THEOPHANE SCHMITT, CS. a '36 died July 25 after an automobile accident in Monrovia, ^Vcst .Africa, ivhcrc lie »>'as superior of the high school. Bro. Schmitt was former General Treasurer and Board Member of the General .Administration of C.S.C. in Rome. 
EDMOND J. BARTNETT '38 of New York City died in June according to word recently re­ceived at the .Alumni Office. Mr. Bartnett had been a reporter for the **Ncw York Times" since 1920. While at ND he sent in play-by-play reports of ND football games. During World War 11 he went to France as a counterintelligence agent. Sur\-ivors indude two daughters and his parents. 
HARRY W. BERNBROCK '38 of Quincy, Illi­nois, died suddenly of pneumonia March 3 ac­cording to word recently received from his w'ife. He was vice-president in charge of public relations for the Quincx'-Peoples Savings & Loan. During his school years he received many athletic awards. He has coadicd high sdiool, CYO basketball teams. At the time of his death his grade school team was undefeated. Mr. Bernbrock was also active in x'arious business, civic and religious groups. 
REV. JOHN J. WINIARSKI. aS.C. '38 of Holy Trinity Church, died June 5 in Chicago, Illinois. Father Winiarski entered the novitiate in 1933 and made tits final profession of vows in 1938. He was ordained on June 24, 1942, and scrxxd several parishes in South Bend and Chicago. 
PHILIP G. DAH.AR '39 of Dillonvalc, Ohio, died December 12, I9G1, according to word recently re­ceived at the Alumni Office. Tlicre were no details. 
WILLIAM A. &\RROLL (here '42-'43), sales director of a Texas engineering firm died ol leu­kemia, September 4 in a Dallas hospital. During World War II he was a lieutenant commander in the Nav>- and was bomber pilot on the aircraft carrier Manila Bay. Surx-lvors include his wife, a daughter, three sons and his mother. 
LAWRENCE E. H.ACKETT '45 of .Middletown, Ohio, died suddenly of a heart attack June II. He was active in numerous fraternal and veterans' organizations. Surx'ivors include his wife, two sons, four daughters and his mother. 
PHILLIP G. DELINCKE '47 of West CoHings­wood. New Jersey, died .August I. according to word recently received at the Alumni Office. His wife surx'ives him. 
DONALD R. ALBRIGHT '48 died April 8 ac­cording to word recently received at the .Alumni Office. Mr. Albright worked for Shell Oil Company in Atlanta, Georgia. He is sur\"ivcd by his wife. 
ARTHUR L. SHERIDAN '52 of Waukon, Iowa, died August 19 according to word received at the Alumni Office. Surxivors include his xvifc and parents, Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR E. '21. 
HIS E.MINENCE VALERIO CARDINAL VAL­ERI LL.D.'54 died July 22 at the Vatican. He was Prefect of the Sacred Congregation of Religious. 
RAYMOND E. ONOFRIO '54 of Cherrx- Hill, New Jersey, died suddenly October 15. He is surxivcd by his wife and two sons. 
2nd LT. PAUL J. RETTIG '62 of St. Louis, Missouri, was killed in ser\-Icc August 2 according to the Religious Bulletin. 
RONALD P. BORNMAN '63 and his bride were killed instantly in an automobile accident August 25 near the Texas-Arkansas border. Tliey xverc re­turning to Indianapolis from a honc>-moon in Mexico. 
BRO. BERNARD GERVAIS. C.S.C, former general administrator of the Congregation of Holy Cross, died unexpectedly October 19 while xisiting 
"relatives in Spokane, Wash. Brother Bernard had been retired and living at N.D. since 1950. He is surxived by a brother, BROTHER BENEDICT GERVAIS, C.S.C. '31. 
BRO. ALBINUS BUTLER, C.S.C, a bookkeeper for N.D. since 1931, died October 13, in St. Joseph's Hospital. Bro. Alblnus suffered a stroke last April. There xvcre no immediate survivors. 
50-YEAR CLUB 
Fifty-five years ago, GEORGE CUTSHA^V was playing with an ND baseball team that wound up with a 20-1 record. Forty years ago a ruptured ap­pendix forced George into retirement from Ty Cobb's Detroit Tigers after ser^^cc with the Brook­lyn Dodgers and Pituburgh Pirates as an tnficldcr. A retired grapefruit rancher in California's Im­perial Valley, he spent the summer touring the 
U.S. with Mrs. Cutshaw, visiting former (and famed) baseball buddies and also the ND campus. "I've been back many times, hut I've never seen it changed so much. All those new buildings arc really something," he said. "And Sorin Hall — we must have made it a holy place. *nic>*'vc even got nuns staying llierc for summer scJiool." TJic visit was capped by a return powwow \vith Coach JAKE KLINE, M7. 
Since locking up the August-September column 
back in June, we have had sad tidings of some 
grave losses on the scmiccntcnanan roster. Probably 
the first and oldest alumnus in Butte, Mont., DR. 
RICHARD C. MOXAHAN, '98, died in August. 
First practicing as a phy3ician and surgeon in Chi­
cago, Dr. Monahan moved to Butte in 1903, was a 
cofouuder and early president of the ND Club of 
Montana and State Republican Chairman for many 
years. Sympathy to his family, especially DR. JOHN 
SlON.VHAN, '35, his son. In Ekalaka, Mont,, near­
bv. ROBERT JACOB PRICE died in Julv. A Car­
roll Hall resident (I898-I90I), Mr. Price was born 
in Wyoming, where he was a cattle rancher and 
public ser\'ant until 1946 when he opened a general 
store. To his family and many friends goes the sym­
pathy of the ND family. 
One of the saddest losses was that in September of WILLIAM (BILL) JAMIESOX '05, a perennial visitor from Chicago at reunion time until he be­came too ill a couple of years ago. Retired president of an institutional supply company and a former teacher at St. Edward's College in Texas, Bill had nine children, including R. AL^VN JAMIESON '50 and 3 grandchildren. 
We'd also like to console JAMES A. DUBBS, '06, on the death of his brother JOHN W. DUBBS, 
LL.B. '03, in Mendota, III., back in April. Re­ported to the office months ago, it was delayed somehow in reaching this department. Besides his brother, his widow and a daughter, Mr. Dubbs left four ahinini sons (JA.MES '32, JOHN JR. '39, JOE MO, JERRY '48) and one graduated grandson. P.\T '60. 
A third Ia«->er, JAMES D. JORD/\N '07, died in late August in Scraiiton, Pa., where he had been named the ^D Club .Man of the Year in 1!M8, We share the sorrow of his widow and daughter and his son, RICHxVRD J. JORDAN '51, also an attorney. 
The following from the typewriter of P.\UL MARTIN-DILLON of the "Evening Times," Cum­berland, Md., ^vhosc SD president forbear was among the Civil War chaplains memorialized at the Gettysburg Field Mass on June 29: 
"Word has Just reached inc of the death ou Sept. 12, at San Diego, Calif., of SAM H. NUbS-BxiUM '87, who was an ND student during the presidenc>- of FATHER THOMx\S WALSH. He was a native of LaPorte, Ind., and Sam's father was for many years an intimate friend of FATHER SORIN. The Nussbaums were also friends of the Wile family (early Jewish friends of the Uni­versitv. Ed.) and I am inclined to believe they were related. The late EUGENE WILE '85 was a contemporary. 
"At the time Sam was at ND. his brother, BERTRiVM EDWARD SORIX NUSSBAUM, w^s in the Minims. Sam was prominent as a track ath­lete and also as a pianist. He left ND to enter the University of Leipzig, Germany, where he spent 10 years as a piano student in the conservatory. While there he married a fellow student. Miss Harriet Smith, of New Haven, Conn. 
"Completing his studies at Leipzig, Sam, with his wife and two small children, returned to the United States and for a time resided in Chicago. They then went to Marion, Ind., where Sam and an older brother, Pero" L., founded the Marion Con­scr\-alor>' of Music In a few years this institu­tion ' ranked as one of the leading music schools of the Middle West and numbered the now famous Cole Porter among its students. 
"Shortly before W.W.I. Sam's eyes became af­fected to such an extent that blindness was nar­rowly averted. He and his brother gave up their conser\"ator>* at Marion and Sam went to live on a farm he owned near LaPortc. Eventually his sight was restored and he went to Chicago where he opened a private piano studio. Despite the fact that he had spent the greater part of his life in the pursuit of music, it suddenly palled on him; he closed his piano and entered the in-
JIM WHITE *28 and his wife Mary were privileged to have one of the last private audiences with ailing Pope John XXIII before his death and were much impressed by the PontifTs uamith and kindliness. Standing beside His Holiness is the famed Msgr. Ryan who taught him English with a brogue and later became an Irish bishop. The ^Vhites said Notre Dame men should feel at home in the Vatican, since 85 per cent of administrative personnel arc reported to be of Irish extraction. 
surance business. In which he became highly suc­cessful. 
''He was always lo\*al to ND and could spend hours telling younger men of the University as lie had known it. From earlv bovhood he was a favorite of the late PROF. JA.MES F. EDWARDS and u-as a close friend of the late BROTHERS ALEXANDER, L.\WRENCE and ALPHONSUS, 
C.S.C. He had known the last as P.\UL SWEET, a fellow student in Carroll {fall. 
"Mrs. Nussbaum died four years ago. Sam is sur\'ived by his daughter. Mrs. Dayton Brown of San Diego, and a son, Hamilton Jr. He was 95 years old." 
JOHN T. KEARNS '29, shown with wife Ruth and daughter Rosemary at the Class party after the Wisconsin game, has a son, Jantes, as a sophomore member of Alcv Wilson's IC4A championship cross­country team. Another son, John *58, and daughter Ann both intended to be married before the end of this year. The Kcamscs live In Champaign, III., where Ruth teaches. 
The passing of a prep schooler of the Nineties was recently reported to FR. CHARLES CAREY by his son. A. j . RUMELY 5R., an Academy grad of '94, died In September in LaPorte, Ind. His 'son, who succeeded him upon his retirement as president of LaPorte Foundr>" Co., reported his age as 87. 
RED SMITH '27, in his national column foHow-Ing the ND-Wbconsin game, coupled tributes to Coach HUGH DEVORE '34 and parent STAN MUSIAL with a story on two other Irish baseball players: *'Without even venturing into the cozy confines of Boston's Fenwav Park, Avliere It was raining, CARL MICHAEL* YASTRZEMSKI, left field, completed his third big league season with an overlapping grip on the batting crown of the American League. .. . The Boston strong boy may be the Brst player ever to win a big league batting championship while still attending college. . . . The big leagues have had a couple of pretty handy batsmen before Yastrzemski who earned their letters on the campus. One was ADRIAN CON­ST.ANTINE ANSON (circa 1870), first baseman and manager of the Chicago Nationals for 19 years. . . . Cap Anson won the batting champion­ship four times . . . and still holds the National League record of hitting .300 or better for 20 years. . . . CY WILLLAMS, B.S. in architecture. Class of '12, twice led the National League in home runs and twice lied for the lead. . . ." 
1914 
Walter L. Clements 623 Park Ave. South Bend, Indiana 
WILLL\M J. CUSACK, who since 1923 has been practicing law in Los .Angeles, California, writes that he expects to be on hand for the 50th reunion 
of the Class in June of next year, though if the football team this year had not played Stanford in California we should not have been surprised to find him at one of the *"Cal-" games here this px<it fall. 
Bill and Miss Elizabeth Gentle were married in Washington, D.C. in 1922. Now they live in Beverly Hills. It docsn^t take too long for him to reach 
his law oHicc, where he is still on the job, though he understandably reports he is growing lazier and lazier each day. He and his good wife have three daughters, six grandsons and two granddaughters. 
TIic above photo of him was taken from a pass­port of last July, but Bill doesn't tell us how much trotting around the globe he has done. 
Recently, when we heard from FRED GUS­HURST who wrote from his home in Denver, he was too much of his old quiet self to tell about the part he had in the *14 football team when he played on the "first string'* as one end \%'hile Knute Rockne held down the other end. So when Dorais made one of his famous passes it might have been Fred Gus­hurst doing the receiving instead of Rockne. But Fred does modestly remark that ''after all it was our Class which put Notre Dame in the national athletic spotlight." 
After graduating from Notre Dame he returned to his home town of Lead, S. D., and not too long after that, married Teresa Garlock of Custer, 
S. D. For a while he helped in his father's mercantile business and then following his seni'icc in the army was athletic director for the South Dakota School of Mines for a few years. 
In 1921 he moved to Denver where he was engaged for several years in the manufacturing business and finally ended up by operating a bowling center. 

Tlieir eldest son, Clarence, who is a graduate of West Point, has three grown sons. Their daughter, Mar>* Teresa, a graduate of Denver Univ., has two teen-age boys while FRED, JR., a member of the Class of *46, has a master*s from Columbia and two young daughters. .All the family live now in Denver. . Fred, Sr., writes that he is coming back for our fiftieth next June and wants to see again all the old gang who are left. 
From tlie Alumni OiHce: In Cleveland at the end of August, RAY T. MILLER exploded a bombshell when he resigned abruptly after more than a quarter century as chair­man of the Cu>-ahoga County Democratic Party. Nettled by criticism, of fiis appointments from one wing of the party, Ray (who had resigned thrice 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 27 
Ijcfore and been talked out of it) resisted pleas and resolutions that he reconsider, and the temporary chairmanship \vent to DAN W. DUFFY *21, Ray's lo>-al \'ice-chairman of many years, who %vas chair­man last year of Ray's gala Silver Jubilee testi­monial. . 
1915 
Albert A. Kuhlc 
117 S. Sunset Ave. 
La Grange, Illinois 
I addressed a letter to all known li\-ing members 
of the Class of 1915 at Notre Dame. One purpose 
of the letter was to establish contact, if possible, 
with all living members. Another purpose was to 
attempt to arouse some interest among my fellow 
alumni in the forthcoming Golden Annivcrsar>' of 
our graduation—^June 12-13-14, 1965. 
The address list I used was dated July, 1959, so 
as might be expected, some of tlic letters were re­
turned unclaimed for want of a current address. 
One was marked "Deceased." This letter was ad­
dressed to REV. STANISLAUS KUSZYNSKI, 
C5.C. It is possible that this information may 
have come to you from some other source. (Re­
ported in I960. Ed.) 
I had addressed a letter to RAYMOND JOHN 
SULLI^^AN at New Hampton, Iowa. His son, T. 
J. Sullivan at New Hampton informed mc that his father had passed away in November, 1961. 
I was agreeably surprised to receive a letter from 
HAROLD D. MADDEN who lives at 7123 Silver-
crest Drive., Cincinnati 36, Ohio. He brought to 
my attention that despite tlie fact that he has 
always been known as Harold D. Madden, the 
records at Notre Dame carr>" him as Daniel H. 
Madden. 
Harold informed me that he has five children, 
26 grandchildren. His youngest son Bill has a Ph.D, 
from Michigan and received an .AB at Notre Dame 
with tlie Class of 1947. He now teaches at Indiana 
University and recently lectured at Notre Dame. 
Harold Is looking forward to seeing mc and as 
many of his classmates as possible at ND in June, 
1965. 
I appreciated also receiving a letter from 
GEORGE N. SHUSTER, assistant to tlie president, 
extending an invitation to call on him on my next 
\^sit to the campus. Tliat will be a real pleasure 
indeed—George is one of our most distinguished 
alumni—a credit to the Class of 1915. All, I am 
sure, know tliat he is back at Notre Dame. 
A note from LENNOX F. ARMSTRONG states 
that his residence address has been changed from 
1122 Forest Avenue, River Forest, Illinois, to 203 
So. Emerald Drive, McHenrj*, Illinois. He stated 
further that he is "still active In business, not re­
tired." 
A cheerful note from JOHN A. ^\TLCH, Circle 

Tower, Indianapolis indicated that be is "proud of 
the tremendous growth, phj-sical, moral and in 
leamin' '* of Notre Dame. "I will see you in 
June, 1965." 

Our good friend and fellow alumnus, JUDGE RAYMO.XD J. KELLY sends word that he is re­tired from the practice of law for over a year but even so he did handle one real big case which was completed last March. Since then he and his good wife "spent three months \-acationing in Europe and Africa (10 days in Ireland)." He assured me that he would tr>- and contact members of the 1915 Law Class and encourage them to join their classmates on the Campus in June of 1965. Judge Kelly now resides at 18073 Fairfield, Detroit, Michigan. 
Letters addressed to the following members of the Class of 1915 were returned unclaimed: EDWARD 
G. GUSHURST, M.D., JOSEPH J. HEALY and DAMD M. LIPPEATT. Will anyone knowing the current address or having information about these men, please communicate with the Class Secretary. All alumni should keep in close touch ivith the Uni­versity—to be aware of its tremendous growth and development. These are exciting da>-s in the history* of Notre Dame and cverx* alumnus will want to share them in full measure. 
From the Alumm Office: Since hc*s resigned as chief U.S. delegate to UNESCO in order to devote all his time to the future academic development of Notre Dame, GEORGE SHUSTER still finds it difficult to avoid the national spotlight. Recent honors include the national Newman Club Man of the Year a\vard and praise from (of all people) Planned Parent­hood Federation Chairman Donald Straus for his hosting the University's population s^'mposium last year and inviting Planned Parenthood spokesmen. 
28 Notre Dame..Alumnus3 Year End, 1963 
SCHENECTADY—Principals for Universal Notre Dame Night included (from left): John F. Hurley '37, president of the Schenectady ND Club; Rev. Louis Thornton C.S.C., '29, guest from the campus; ND Man of Year and Mrs. D. Vincent Cerrito. 
1916 
Grover F. Miller 220 9th Street Racine, Wisconsin 

From the Alumni Office: THOM.\S A. HAYES, one of the "Hayes boys" mentioned in the I9I7 column among the Fort Wa>-ne Central Catliolic Class of 1913, has more stor>' than his law practice and Internal Rcxenue Scr\icc work in Grand Rapids, including an alum­nus son, THOMAS A. HAYES, JR. '54. 
1917 
Edward J. McOsker 525 N. Melrose Ave. Elgin, Illinois 

From the .Alumni Office: The Fort Wayne, Ind., edition of Our Sunday Xlsilor recently carried a nostalgic stor>- on the 50lh anniversary of the first graduating class of Fort Wa>-ne*s Central Catholic High Scliool, seven boys who debated the question of women's suffrage in Indiana: '*Women in the state can be ever grate­ful for the outcome. It was affirmative and a Constitutional Amendment followed some years later. . . . Though relatively few normally went on to college after high school in those days, Central Catholic's first class must be considered unusual. . . . JIM HAYES, TO.M HAYES, JEROME MIL­LER and EUGENE O'CONNELL all went to the University of Notre Dame. Both Hayes boys became lawyers. Jim was connected with the Veterans Ad­ministration in Washington, D.C., and at one time took care of Franklin D. Roosevelt's tax papers, among other things. Tom Hayes ('16) was with the Internal Revenue Ser\icc at Grand Rapids. Jerr>* Miller, who was in sales work here for many years, is now deceased. He was a close friend of football star GEORGE GIPP while at Notre Dame. Eugene O'ConnclI was a professor at Notre Dame at the time of his death a number of years ago." 
1918 

George Waagc 3305 Wrightwood Ave. Chicago 47, Illinois 
We owe thanks to CHARLIE CALL for Golden Jubilee Class stationery. As yet I have not thanked him for it. 
As for my trip west, I'll try to mention all those whom I contacted. Let's admit that I person­ally got more out of it tlian I put in it. 
Going west, I missed Alinneapolis—therefore did not contact JAMES A. STARK at 5436 Colum­bus Ave. At Spokane I tried to reach THOMAS 
D. MOTT, Jr., 511 Summer Ave.; had no luck via phone, but left word requesting him to wxitc. 
At San Mateo, California, with the aid of the 

police, I reached BREEN McDONALD via phone, 
as he is not listed in phone books at the given 
address. 
In Gi^Tnpia, Wash., I contacted the old Hurdler 

himself—E. M. ST.ARRETT. Had a very interest­
ing couple of hours. He is looking great and 
enjoying the best of health. He promised that he 
would write and I imagine you have heard from 
him. 
Must have overlooked LOUIS HELLERT at 

Portland. I'll blame Starrett for that—as he . should have had me call Hcllert. In Denver I con­
tacted quite a few of the fellows. Missed DR. 
RENE RODRIGUEZ, as it was a holiday, but 
I left word for luni to write you. 
J.AMES F. HANLON, noted for his getting 

special train loads of Denver fans to ND during 
the good old days, is still looking and hoping for 
a successful football team. Sivecncy drove me 
over to Jim's home and we had a very nice 
visit. Hanlon is not as active as he once was, 
but he sure is looking good. Tliis guy JAMES 
L. SWEENEY—maybe a Httlc older—is the same genial guy he always was. Phoned him and had to wait so that he might pick me up and drive mc around Denver to see its night lights. In the morning he called for mc and we went over to Hanlon and from there to his home to meet his charming wife and family. It's a holiday, but come two o'clock Jim has a funeral (he has the reputation of burying 'em) and they arc not Nonvegians. Beh and DLxon asked mc if he was still bur>'ing 'em and I'll state tliat he still is. Sweeney came out west to overcome an illness and he sure has—looks great and has a family and grandcliildren. 
At Council Bluffs I phoned ED McDONNELL. He stated that all that he was noted for around school was that he stayed at Corby and his room­mate \\*as a quarterback named Larkin. Promised he'd write. Had to phone the javelin thrower CARLETON D. BEH. You do and you'll get a command to come right over to the Beh Build­ing, center of town. You may have to get finger­printed before they'll let you in to see Mr. Big B., but once in—the place is yours. We had a very nice and interesting bull session. With coffee right in the office, Carleton looks great and his two sons working with him are real chips off the "Old Man." 
In Rock Island, III., I called GEORGE E. HAR­BERT and that was a command to stay where was until he picked mc up. That was the start of an enjoyable evening witli him and lib wife and dinner out on the town. He told me to be sure and call SHERWOOD DIXON as I had to go through Dixon to reach home. I called his office but he was out. I have a nice letter from Sher­wood, sent to me via BILL BRADBURY as Dixon did not have my address, and I have yet to answer it. However I'll be dropping in on him on my way to see George Harbcrt—^vho I have learned is another camera nut. 
That's about all that I have to write about my trip west—other than that I made over sLx thousand miles getting around twenty-seven miles per gallon of gas with no tire trouble. I did replace a clutch first day out. Other than that no trouble with the car (Falcon). 
From the Alumni Office: 
Circuit Judge ALBERT S. O'SULLIVAN of Rock­
ford, 111., was recently selected as chief judge of 
the 17th Judicial Circuit, covering courts in Winne­
bago and Boone Counties. As chief judge under a 
new judicial article, AI has general administrative 
authority in the courts, subject only to the Illinois 
Supreme Court, beginning next January*. He was 
elected unanimously for the job by his fellow cir­
cuit judges. 
A card from MORRIS STARRETT, Olympia, 
Wash.: "Chipper milcr GEORGE WAAGE was in 
to check upon us, en route to San Francisco via 
Portland's BILL SCHA!ITT and U. of P., to sec 
SLIP MADIGAN, JIMMY PHELAN, etc. . . . 
P.S. George's 45th Reunion slides were most in­spiring." And President CILVRLES a\L L writes of Secretary* Waage: "We were both on the track team and both ran the mile. He was a far better runner than I, although I was fortunate to win a couple of monograms. . . . We plan to make a quick trip to Rio, maybe m October. Wc have urged George to visit us in Winter Haven, Fla., this winter. . . ." 
1919 
Thco. C. Rademakcr 
Peru Foundry Co. 
Peru, Indiana 
1920 
James H. Ryan 170 Maybrook Road Rochester 18, New York 
From the Alumni OfHce: The Washington Star and other D.C. newspapers devoted scores of column indies to the death of CHARLES M. EGAN, former Star news editor and sports editor, back in July. One cuIog>' ran: *'CharIcs Michael Egan, who has just left us to fill In his old friend KNUTE ROCKNE on recent de­velopments, was the kind of newspaperman that people in the business aren't likely to forget in a hurr>'. He was a bom editor, not a by-Hnc type guy, and unjustifiably the memory* of his prowess will be limited. *'That this memory* will be restricted to pros wouldn't have displeased Chuck, who died at 65 after a lingering illness which forced him to abandon sports editorship of The Star. . . . There were times when Egan seemed as hard on tlic out­side as he assuredly was soft and sentimental on the inside. He barked at and chewed on his re­porters—citysidc or sports—but he was the editor who banged his big fist on the desks of higher editors, and even owners, in defense of the same personnel. . . . Egan once remarked of one of his sports writers, 'He's probably the best reporter in his field in America, but he could not cover a marble match without taking sides.' What he was doing, consciously or otherwise, was describing himself. . . . ". . . Egan had a voluminous and practically infallible memory, but he had his own private file. He was a walking record book, yet he knew few if any of the heroes whose achievements rolled so easily off his tongue. Once a cub sports writer answered a telephone call from a subscriber who u'antcd to know when the Senators last won a pennant. 'Brokers Tip's year!' Egan snapped. 'Everybody knows it was 1933.* That was how Chuck Egan measured the years .. . by Kentucky Derby winners. Eisenhower wasn't elected in 1952. He became President of the United States in *HiU Gail's year.* "For an editor who spoke so cuttingly to sub­ordinates, peers and superiors alike, Egan was painfully shy when a staff member attempted to take Iiim into a ball club's dressing room or dug­out. . . "He was shy in this respect, but never in the shop. He was an Editor. Also a friend." 
1921 
Dan Duffy 1101 Superior BIdg. Cleveland 14, OIuo 
From the Alumni Office: With the resignation of RAY MILLER U4 as Cuyahoga County (Cleveland) Democratic chair­
man. Secretary DAN DUFFY moves from vice-
to acting chairman. 
Dan recently got a note from D.\S E. HIL­GARTNER JR. '17, enclosing a clipping from the Houston IVcss entitled "Jesus, the Perfect Man" and saying in part: "Our mutual friend, CHARLES PATRICK JOSEPH MOONEY JR. of Memphis, asked me to send you the enclosed clipping of a beautiful religious editorial written fifty years ago by his illustrious father when he was editor of the Commercial Appeal.** 
The answer is apparently in the negative to Hilgartncr's question: "Are you related by chance to a DANIEL J. DUFFY who was in Carroll Hall about 1912 or *13, and whose father was a Chicago police captain? I was on the campus from 1909 to 1917, when I got a degree by parcel post at Fort Sheridan, 111., First Officers Training Camp, Worid War I." 
1922 
G. A. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd. No. Rochester 25, N. Y. 
Another grand classmate has been summoned to his reward: this time God beckoned JOHN P. "TUFFY" HART of 1250 Rossmorc Avenue, Cin­cinnati, Ohio, who died on June 29 of a heart attack. The information was furnislicd by a son—EDWARD 
G. HART '53, President of the Commercial Ser\'ice Co., 7-10 St. Francois Street, Florissant, Missouri. For many years, John was affiliated with the truck­ing industry in an official capacity, being stationed mostly in the Cleveland, Buffalo, and Cincinnati areas. John was always a great favorite among his classmates because he was so sincere and friendly to others. He attended most of our reunion gather­ings in the past including our most recent 40tli Reunion last year. At future class conclaves, our beloved "TUFFY** will be very greatly missed. Our deep sympathy and prayers arc offered to the widow, Catherine, son Edward *53 and others of the family. 
Wc of '22 also extend our deepest sympathy to 
R. GERALD JONES of San Mateo, California on the death of his beloved wife, ^[arion C , who died July 29 of a heart attack at the family home. Our sympathy goes out to all members of the Jones family and to ROBERT CfXHILL of the N.D. Ath­letic Department, a brother of the deceased. 
The R.\LPH CORYNS of Moline, Illinois were vacationing up at Rhinelander and Eagle River, Wis­consin during the summer. 
DOCTOR MATT WEI5 proudly announces that his four-year-old grandson has a c^est like HUNK ANDERSON, and legs and arms like GEORGE GIPP. Now, if only he can learn to tell stories like his Grandpop, he will be a real headlincr. 
Your secretary is full of apologies to the wonder­ful JOHN PAUL CULLENS of Milwaukee for being so tardy in just now announcing the celebration of their 25tli Wedding Anniversary last January 13. A son Peter of N.D., another son, Mark of Mar­quette University, and a daughter Mary Alice of the University* of Wisconsin were hosts and hostess to their parents at dinner in the Karl Ratzch down­town restaurant. Our hearty, if belated, congratu­lations and best wishes to the CuIIens. 
From the Alumni Office: Tlie Milwaukee limes had a fine "human in­terest" picture story on J. P. CULLEN in Sep­tember. Tlie photograph showed John Paul in the VA office he manages, being "pinned" with a 40-year Federal Ser\'ice pin from the Washington central office of VA by a retired staffer for whom he had performed the same honor three years ago. The CuUens (he with four decades in vet­erans' service and she formerly with the U. S. treasurer's office, Washington) have a son, Peter, at N. D.; another, Mark, in the Navy after Mar­quette grad school; and a daughter, Alice, doing graduate ^vork in fine arts at ^Visconsin. Adding to his laurels as a former national vice-president of the ND Alumni Assn. and as general counsel for the Kansas City Life Insurance Co., JOSEPH R. STEWART has become assodated with the firm of Krings, Whipple, Maurer & Eisler, Kansas City, Mo., in the general' practice of law. Joe joined the office, located in the Rialto BIdg., back in September. 
1923 
Louis V. Bruggner 2163 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Indiana 
Following a highly successful 40th reunion lost June, tlic Class of '23 is embarking on the next five yean with an almost completely new administra' tion. A slate of ofhcers submitted at the Reunion by a nominating committee was mtiiied by the 

CLASS OF 1929 football gathering on October 12 unveiled the stage coadi flag with which '29ers are promoting their 35th Anniversary Reunion next June. Holding banner (l.-r.) are Tony Schreiner, Fr. Lou Thornton GS-C., J<Jm Cushman, Bill Craig, Bob Voglewede, John Colangelo, Clarence Jans, Jim Curry and Secretary Larry Stauder. (Photo by Francis Meyer '29.) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 29 
Class in a mailed ballot with only a minor write-
in vote. New officers of the Class are: FRANCIS 
WALLACE, President; JOSEPH DONALDSON, 
Vice-president; LOUIS V. BRUGGNER, Secretary; 
and JOSEPH W. NYIKOS, Treasurer. 
Regional vice-presidents arc WALTER RAUBER, 

Eastern District; HARRY FLANNERY, South­
eastern; LEWIS MURPHY, Souihwestcni; a\R L 
FISCHER, Northwestern; EDGAR RAUB, Middle 
West; JUAN P. SCARON, South America; STAN­
LEY BRADBURY, REV. JOHN REDDINGTON, 
C.S.C., and THOMAS PLOUFF, vice-presidents at-
large. The nominating committee consisted of 
MARTIN BRENNAN, HERBERT VALKER, and 
VINCENT J. BROWN. 
A long history on the part of your Secretary of business'frustrations, personnel sickness, and prrsonal distractions, has kept me from my secretarial chores to the point of a resulting paucity of news. Other than the news of the deaths soon after the reunion of our classmates VINCENT CAVANAUGH and THOMAS KEATING (which have been reported in our class mailings) no front page news has come across my desk. 
From the Alumni Office: Tlie thoroughly Republican Robinson Argus of Republican Crawford County, III., edited by the Illinois Republican chairman, is pretty proud of Democrat Prosecutor ST.AN BR.\DBURY and his Democrat brother Bill, '18. Prominently displayed in a June issue was this front page item: *'Wc note frequently that Crawford County boys continue to give a good account of themselves when away from home, and we were pleased to learn tliat our ST.\N BRADBURY was thoroughly 'in­tegrated' when he attended the 4Qth reunion of his graduating class at Notre Dame a little over a week ago. *'Stan is a practicing Protestant and a 32nd degree Mason, hut he received his formal education and law degree from Notre Dame, a Catholic university. At the reunion Iicid at the South Bend Country Club .. . 78 of his classmates were in attendance and one •was a former room­mate whom he had not seen In the 40 years since they took their degrees." 
1924 
James R. Mechan 301 S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Indiana 
The inimitable BOB RINK, president of the Goshen Manufacturing Company and a Mcchan customer, wrote; "Ju<t 25 miles from each other, and still it's a case of a long time 'no sec, no hear.' 
"I do note cvcrj" once in a while a fc\v checks coming to you covering our purchases. TIiosc checks aren't as big as they should be, so why not come over and 'drum up some business'? 
'*! thought you might be interested In a writeup that appeared in the May-June issue of the Con­tinental Maganne (published by Ford, naturally), covering the second career of FR-:\NK J. Mc-GINNIS. It looks as though our old schoolmate has really got it made! 
"I was over at commencement exercises last Sunday, and it brings to mind, Jim. that next yrar is the occasion of our 40-year Class Reunion. Docs it seem possible? Well, as our Class Secretary-— sic 'em!" 
FRANK McGINNIS, who recently retired as a public relations exec for the Ford Motor Co., is having a ball as the guiding spirit of "Words & Pictures Inc.," with travel films, lectures and articles on such exotic places as G reece and Europe's Rivieras. He's represented in the last Detroit Athletic Club News with an article on "Tlic Glories of Greece," and you'll find an article by Frank In this Issue of the ALUMNUS. 
ARCHBISHOP LAWRENCE GRANER, C.S.C, appears often in the colorful Pakistan Letter pub­lished by the Holy Cross Priests and Brothers in Dacca Mission, Bengal, East Pakistan. Address either 28 Zindabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan, or Pakistan Letter, Washington, D.C., If you'd like to be on the list. 
1925 
John P. Hurley 
2085 Brookdalc Road 
TtAcdo 6, Ohio 
Your secretary has been pretty husy since the last published ALUMNUS, but not from reading 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End, 1963 
CHARLES A. CONLEY '33 and family 
(from left, Mary Helen, Chris, Marty, Sirs. C.) among the thousands of Notre Darners who %'isited the Father Corby memorial on the Gettysburg battlefield last simuner. For Charlie it was one of several trips as a member of Philadelphia's Gettysburg Com­mittee. He also visited the replica on campus at last summer's Class Reunions. 
letters from my fellow classmates. Let's "give" a little, boys! 
BEN KESTING called this week and mentioned that PAUL HART.\IAN of Pittsburgh died. 1 am sure that, like those who felt a great loss, tills same feeling will be shared by many of Paul's classmates. Paul was at the last reunion and he had a great time reminiscing with all his fellow engineers. Our deepest sympathy is extended to ^Irs. Hartnian and, of course, our Class ^lass will be said for Paul as well as the Mass by the Alumni Association. 
I was also sorry to hear from the Alunmi office that HERMAN CEN"rLIVRE's wife passed away. I would like to extend the sympathy of the class to Herm and his family. 
This beginning Is being dictated on my tape while traveling on the Ohio Turnpike between Cleveland and Toledo. In a few days (at this point of the writing) we will have our first football "picnic" for the class of '25 and from the reports I get from Jim Armstrong as to those who Iiave indicated they will be there and have asked for tickets for the parking lot, it looks like a real "Hoolcnanny." 
Last week, while in Canton, I paid a visit to the professional football "Hall of Fame." I can recom­mend your paying a visit to this wonderful me­morial to many football immortals, living and dead. You '25ers would be particularly proud and interested in the fact that the following classmates were here in pictures or represented in some way in the "Hall of Fame": ELMER L/VYDEN, DON MILLER, HARRY STUHLDREHER and "RIP" MILLER. These fellows were on hand, of course, when they had the dedication, and I know Stuhl­drcher and, I believe, "Rip" Miller attended when they lifted the first shovel of ground. .All the "Four. Horsemen" were there, as well as that famous "seventh mule," "Rip." Naturally, Rockne, Gus Dorais, Mllner and many, many other Notre Dame notables arc shown In pictures in this beautiful (both inside and out) building on a lovely land­scaped hillside on the outskirts of Canton, Ohio. If you arc ever passing by, stop in and take a "look." 
With the football season coming up, again, at this writing, I hope to sec many of our classmates at the games at Notre Dame, Lansing and Neu-York, as my "better half" and I plan to take in all these games, "God willing." 
BEN KESTING and I were senior citizen golfers at a recent golf tournament the Toledo Notre Dame Club held at Hcatherdowns Countr>' Club. We won't talk about our score, but we did have a good time. 
I understand that DON MILLER is going to he "father of the bride" in a very short time for the third time In the last few years. Tlie "father of the bride" for Don is old stuff. Speaking of brides and grooms, Mr. and Mrs. RAY TILLMAN arc building a new home on the River Road in Mau­mee, Ohio, and they will have been "at home" to their classmates in October. I ran Into Ray and Mar­garet when they were busy shopping for "goodies" in the line of furniture for their new home. . . . 
Our "Parking Picnic" was a lot of fun. Among those present, including their families, were LEO POWERS. GEORGE LAUGHLIN, TOM GOSS; WARD McCARRON from Fort Lauderdale, Flori­da; FRANK HOWLAND, DON MILLER, JIM ARMSTRONG, R.\Y TILLMAN, JACK COURT­NEY, CY CALDWELL, HERMAN CENTLIVRE, and JUDGE CASEY from Batavia. I brought George Halin. my brother-in-law. George was at Notre Dame during our year and has three sons who went to Notre Dame. Mike Dufficey and Steve Ronay joined our fun as they passed by. I'm sure I could have missed someone. 1 under­stand WALTER CYR, HARRY STUHLDREHER and P.AUL ROMWEBER, and I'm sure some others, "got lost." I hope they find "the lot" In I9«. 

.As you might expect, with the mounting toll of deaths of our classmates the last few months, it might he well to send a few dollars in to H.ANK WURZER for our Mass fund because wc want to keep those spiritual benefits coming to our classmates and we can better afford to give to this fund now than wc could a few years back. So, don't forget to write HENRY \\*URZER, c/o Black Hawk Hotel, Davenport. Iowa, and let's get a few letters off to your secretary- so that he knows you arc still on earth. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Stockbroker AL McG.ANN really joined the "big time" in mid-October when his investment company. South Bend's .Albert McGann Securities Co., Inc., merged with Bache & Co., second largest investment company in the world. Al. a former St. Joseph County aviation commission president and savings bond chairman, will remain as associate director with DICK CLEARY '50 in the South Bend office. 
Books by FR. THO.M.VS T. MoWOY and history colleague PROF. AARO.V ABELL have been selected for the White House Library of American litera­ture. GEORGE BISCHOFF and Edith wrote from Nice on the French Riviera on September 30, tour­ing England, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy (including a week in Rome), and France (with special stops In Lourdes and Paris). 
FRANK W. HOWLAND, C.L.U., was elected president of the Michigan State General Agents and Managers /Kssoclation at a meeting held recently. Frank is general agent of ^lassacbusctts ^(utual in Detroit. ELMER LrVYDEN, HARRY STUHL­DREHER, JIMMY CROWLEY and DON MILLER must have been amused when Philadelphia's Friendly Sons of St. Patrick announced their appearance at a fall rally as "the Four Horsemen getting to­gether for the first time in 20 years." Tlicse guys get together so often they ought to change their name to the Brothers Four. 
The Squibb Plaque for filling a million prescrip­tions recently went to druggist NORB SKELLEY of Salina, Kans. Norb boasts one of the few remaining active degrees In pharmacv*. He seems to have ral­lied after a recent trip to the Mayo Clinic. ED­
" WARD F. OTOOLE recently formed a law partner­ship with ROBERT C. WESTRICK '51 in Chicago. 
1926 
Frank A. Deide 1763 Kessler Blvd. 
South Bend 16, Ind. 
The summer Is gone at this writing, and we are well into the football season. Last Satur­day's victor>- over Southern California em­phasized how well wc are Into it. 
Getting into the mailhag, a note at the beginning of summer, from JOHN RYAN with a clipping from the Chicago Tribune obituary column—telling of the death of JOHN C. (TY) BULGER. John's note stated that Ty's death starts the second 100 In our class. In August I rccci\xd a letter from the Alumn! office announcing the death of AL NACHTEGALL. 
Illinois State Senator ART BIDWILL set a new precedent. According to the Tribune, 
Art declined an expense check. This had never 
happened before. 
Have had luncli several times uitli RUDY 

GOEPFRICH, between his travels. Rudy at­
tended the Gettysburg Centennial observance 
that paid tribute to FATHER CORBY and the 
chaplains of the Civil War. While there he 
met BOB ANDREWS. 
The DENNIS O'NEILLS make hit-and-run trips from Cleveland, but after a Canadian vacation Dorothy had a siege in the hospital. The last word is tliat slic is better and almost ready to go again. So maybe they will make some of the later foot­ball games. 
1927 

darcnce J. Ruddy 
32 S. River Street 
Aurora, Illinois 
From the Alumni Ollicc: Repealed in the article "Want to Be a Real Pro?" in a recent Reader's Digest were the words of immortal sportscribe RED SMITH on being a writer: "It's easy. I just sit at my typewriter until beads of blood form on my forehead." 
Among Red's many entertaining recent columns was one on new NB.\ czarevitch J. WALTER KEN­NEDY '34 lc\->-ing an unprecedented $500 fine against bis friend Red Aucrbacb, coach of the Boston Celtics, for bitsli league behavior on a basketball floor. 
Judge LUTHER M. SW\'GERT of the U.S. Cir­cuit Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit, and Chester­ton, Ind., has been elected a member of the Institute of Judicial Administration, a ser\ice organi­zation of the courts with headquarters at X.Y.U. in New York. 
1928 
Louis F. Buckley 
68-10 108th Street 
Forest Hills 75, N.Y. 
Congratulations to HOWARD V. PHALIN on being named as one of the persons of "extraordinar>' achievement" selected to receive the "Very Im­portant Person" awards for 19G3 by the Illinois Club for Catholic Women. Howie, who is Vice President of Field Enterprises, received the V I P award in the field of arts and letters. 
I met JOE KINNE/VRY and his wife early one Sunday morning in August as I was changing planes at the Columbus. Ohio airport and had the pleasure of having breakfast with them. Joe is U. S. At­torney for the Southern District of Ohio. Joe mentioned how much he enjoyed our 35th reunion. VINCE C:\RNEY and his son spent a few days with us on their wav to Europe this summer. I visited JUDGE BILL JONES of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in August in Washington, D. C. His daughter Barbara is now working for Senator Mansfield as his appointment secretary. Tlic following day, I marched with my son Tim from Chicago in the August 28th March on Washington. I had lunch with BILL MURPHY of Chicago who was in New York this summer on business. 
It is a pleasure to continue to receive letters from classmates concerning the success of the 35th reunion. As Dr. BERNIE CROWLEY put it in a letter from Wichita, Kansas, "Our 35tli reunion was wonderful, maybe I am mellowing with age but I enjoyed thb as well if not better than the 2Jth." I have even heard from friends in other classes about it. For example, TIM TOOMEY, a member of the Alumni Association Board of Directors, wrote that word had reached him of the fine party put on by the Class of '28 and that when he was at Notre Dame the week before the reunion someone remarked, "The Class of '28 road show will be here next week." Thanks also to JOHN SEITER and GENE FAR­RELL for sending mc their reunion pictures. JIM ALLAN sent me a copy of the 35th reunion film that he and his son put together. Your work JIM and JIM Jr. is vcr>- much appreciated by all of us. I hope others who took reunion pictures will send me a copy. 
I noted several classmates listed in the June 30 progress report on the Notre Dame Challenge pro­gram. Chairman LEO McINTYRE achieved the record of obtaining 450% of his special gifts quota in AUenlown, Pa. Other. '28 men who did good work as Chairmen arc GEORGE SARGUS in Wheel­ing, West Virginia, JOHN McSORLEY in Pitts­burgh and BILL HURLEY in Springfield, Mass. 
After receiving a number of inquiries at the re-
DONALD J. CORBETT, *28 After 30 Years, Still Serving Rochester 

As a fitting climax to thirty years of de­voted public ser\-ice. Donald J. Corbett was recently appointed Commissioner of Public Safety in Rochester, New York. This office is one of the highest positions awarded in the city administration. .Among its varied duties is complete jurisdiction over the en­tire Police and Fire Departments. 
Don entered Notre Dame in 1924 and was graduated with an A.B. degree, cum laude, four years later. Graduated from Albany Law School in 1930, he was admitted to the Baron Januar>* 21, 1931. 
He was elected a member of the New York State Assembly from the Fifth Assem­bly District of Monroe County (Rochester) for two years in 1934 and 1935. He is the only Democrat ever elected from that dis­trict since 1913. Don was a member of the Joint Legislative Committee which rewrote the Highway Law in 1935, and he also ran for the U.S. Congress against James W. Wadsworth in 1935. 
Commissioner Corbett ser\'ed from 1937 to 1943 as the Assistant Attorney General in Charge of the Rochester Office of the Attorney Genera'., which embraced ten coun­ties in the Rochester and Southern Tier area. 
He has been a practicing attorney in the City of Rochester for twenty-five years and always has been active in civic affairs, particularly the Boy Scouts. He is a past chairman of the Bishop's Catholic Lay Com­mittee on Scouting. 
Don is father to four sons and a daughter. The two eldest sons, Don, Jr., and Richard, arc Notre Dame graduates of '58 and '60 respectively, the latter as president of his class. 
union, I checked on the number of classmates who received undergraduate degrees on Jime 3, 1928. The correct number is 362. Sixty-seven members of this group, or 18%, ha\-e died. The deaths by college from which classmates were graduated are as follows: Law, B (32%); Science 7 (26%); Arts &. Letters, 30 (20%); Commerce 14, (14%); and Engineers, 7, (20%). Twenty of this group who received degrees in June 1928 are on our "mail re­turned unclaimed" list. Thanks to the addition of a large number of classmates who were with our class during 1924-28 but who either did not receive a degree from Notre Dame or were graduated later, we have an active mailing list now of 464 members of the Class of '28 and 33 men who received their 
LL.B. degrees in '28 but who started in 1924 with us. The list of 126 deceased members of our class issued January 15, 1963, abo includes those closely associated with our class. 
I had a note from GEORGE KELLEY from Youngstown, Ohio, commenting on a book review of mine in America. George had an excellent article in America on provision made for reporting on the Vatican Council in the November 8, 1962 issue. 
BILL KONOP moved from Cincinnati to New York at the time of our reunion so could not attend. BILL is a tax attorney with A. T. & T. Co. in New York. He has a daughter at Miami University and a son at Indiana University. Bill has three grandchildren. ANTHONY F. BENNING is Re­search Manager, Petroleum Chemicals Research Sec­tion, E. I. du Pont de Nemours &. Co. in Wilming­ton, Delaware. He is single and lives in Woodstown, Neiv Jersey. Dr. FRANCIS FORD is practicing medicine in Billings, Montana. His oldest son is at the University of Montana. BERNIE KORZEN is County Treasurer of Cook County. BERNIE BIRD is Deputy Comptroller of Erie County, New York. His son who finished Notre Dame in 1961 is now in Buffalo Medical School. JIM HARTLEY is plant accountant with the American Can Co. in Hoboken, N. J. His son was graduated at Notre Dame this year. ED BRENNAN, who ts credit super\'isor with Burlington Industries in New York, has six daughters, age 12 to 26. TIM TOOMEY reports that JOHN EG.AN, who had been ill for some time, is back at work at Filcncs in Boston. JOHN B. SULLIVAN, '29, originally from Spring­field, Mass. was seriously injured in a plane crash on July 2nd at Rochester, N. Y. in which seven were killed. JOHN* has done an outstanding job with the New York Slate Commission against dis­crimination. 
Our Class President, BERNIE G.4RBER, gave me the following interesting items: 
"My Sophomore hall roommate, JOE LALLY BR/\NNON, retired Sept. 14 from Sears after 35 years of association. He started in 1928 in Chicago as a copywriter and later was in charge of re­modeling older stores and setting up new ones all over the U. S. If I recall correctly, he was also general manager for Sears over a five-state area, while residing in Phoenix. During the war Joe was a Lieut. Commander in the Nav>-. 
"He is now a grandfather, Joe writes, has another daughter just starting college (where, Joe?) and a son in the sixth grade. A Brannon family picture a year ago showed Maria, his wife, and JOE so youthful that the children appeared to be their sisters and brother. The Brannons may retire in Mexico or New England but I would not be sur­prised if Joe becomes vice-presidential candidate with Barry Goldivater. And watch for the book Joe is writing—if done in his own style it will be a best-seller. 
"ED QUINN, with FATHER .\NDY MUL­RE.-\NY, made our 35th reunion a success. Whether or not it w*as a reward, Ed spent some time in Puerto Rico in October with a Chile IV Peace Corps group of 62 volunteers which he helped train at Notre Dame during the summer. (ED then returned to his duties as head of the guidance and testing department at Notre Dame.) FATHER ANDY MULREANY*s reward was a transfcrral from his St. Pius X parish in Granger to St. Joseph's School, 
P. O. Box 584, Killcen, Texas. Father Andy re­ports that he is happy to be back in Texas again —the Northern winters were too rough on him. He is located about 70 miles north of .Austin near Fort Hood. 
"Others rewarded for their unselfish work on the reunion were DICK GREENE (Munu'c) who vaca­tioned in Europe with Mildred shortly after, and VINCE CARNEY (*28 ties, caps, etc) who spent most of August and September there while his capa­ble daughter Anne carries on his correspondence, business, etc., at home. She and JOHN CARNEY, recovered from surgery, arc again at St. MlchacPs the University of Toronto. 
"Hurr^'ing to my train September 12, I passed the gate of the Century where I met Marj and JOHN ANTUS saying farewell to sons JOHN L. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 31 
and ROBERT, senior and freshman at Noire Dame. 
TTie boys said they would look for my son Clint, 
freshman, when he caught the same train at 
Harmon. 
"Our class's nc\v V. P. for the ^\'cst, ART CANTY, attorney in Los Angeles and Prudential associate, says he goes to X^'C on business at times but has weak alibis for not seeing old friends and associates there. And JOE LAXGTOX, our ncu­treasurer, missed our Oct. 12 party to sec his daughter at St. Joseph's Novitiate, St. Louis, on the rare occasion when parents can visit the Convent. 
"GENE FARRELL, editor The Jerscj' Journal, phoned me in late summer, entliusiastic about the '28 plans for a Tlianksgiving cocktail party in NYC. Gene was going to Genoa to be the ofHcial escort for Christopher Columbus who had accepted an in­vitation to head the Columbus Day parade in Jersey City." 
A number of '28 men and their wives and children gathered togetlicr on October 12 follow­ing the Southern California game victory' at our 8th annual '28 Class Cocktail Party including the folloxving classmates: JIM ALLAN, LOU BUCK­LEV, NEIL AMIOT, JOE DORAN, ED DE.\N, JOE HILGER, JLM CONMEY, BILL D\\A'ER, FRANCIS MEYER, JOHN (RED) LAHEY, BILL MURPHY, ED .\fcKEOWN, HOWIE PHALIN, QUINTAN WILDEMAN, ART ZIMMERNLAN, JOHN RICHARD, BERNIE SCHUH and VINCE WALSH. It was the first time that QUINTAN WILDEMAN had returned for one of our cocktail parties. He is with the Pennsx-Ivania Southern Gas Company in Sayre, Pa. FATHER MICHAEL MULCAIRE joined us at the get-together following the game. 
JOE HILGER and FRANCIS MEYER took pic­tures of the group which wc hope to get to you eventually. Wc are grateful to BERNIE GARBER for the picture mailing announcing the Cocktail Party. FRANCIS MEYER brought along some excellent slides and photographs whicli he had taken of our 35th reunion. 
The October 13lh South Bend Tribune carried a picture of actress IRENE DUNNE (Laetare Medal '57) with HOWIE PH.\LLN at the Southern Cali­fornia game with Father Ilcsburgh in the presi­dential box. 
VINCE WALSH gave me a clipping about JOE McN.\MARA speaking in Champaign, III. Joe is xice-presldent in diarge of industrial relations for National Distillers and Cliemical Corporation in New York City. 
F.^THER T^IARK FITZGER.\LD, director of the industrial relations section of the University of Notre Dame's department of economics scr\"ed on the University planning committee for the ninth na­tional conference of the U. S. National Commission for UNESCO. 
MONTY J. TENNES died on September 19. He wzs plant manager for the bearing division of Chain Belt Company in Downers Grove, Illinois, and an officer in the Air Force during World War II. Monty is survived by his widow, a son and two daughters. HOWIE PHALIN represented the Class of '28 at the wake. Our Treasurer, JOE LANGTON arranged for FATHER ANDY MULRE.^'Y to offer :L Mass for ^fonty. 
The sympathy of the Class is extended to JERRY DcCLERCQ whose mother died on October 3. From the Alumni Office: 
MRS. MARGARET ALEX.\NDER, 1928's only c»-ed in the laity, has been much in demand as a speaker since she won the 1963 NCCJ Brotherhood Award. A board member of NCCJ, Margaret is retired after a long and active career as a teacher and principal of South Bend's Marquette Scliool. 
Congratulations to HO^\^E PILVLIN in joining FR. PAT PEYTON, C.S.C. for two of the 12 VIP awards from the Illinois Club for Catholic Women. Howie won the arts and letters citation for his work with Field Enterprises and Father Pat look a religion award. 
FR. MARK FrrZGERALD, C.S.C, industrial relations expert in the N.D. economics dcpt., was one of the planners of the ninth national conference of the U.S. National Commission for UNESCO in Chicago's Conrad Hilton October 23-26. Last spring 
C. EDWARD DIRINGER became regional sales manager for Law>-crs Co-op Publishing Co., Roch­ester, N. Y. Operating from his home, 2330_N.E. 48tli Court, Pompano Beach, Fla., Ed was formerly a senior sales rep for the law book publishers in Ohio. 
Re-elected chairman of the Ohio Turnpike Com­mission in July, JAMES W. SHOCKNESSY has been editorially lauded throughout the state for the cfBciency of the pike's operation. 
Besides officiating at the \Vi5consin game cocktail party in South Bend and the Syracuse game party in New York, Secretary LOU BUCKLEY recently 
32 Notre Dame AlumnuSj Year End, 1963 
^^^^^^ 

BOB AfcGOLDRICK '52 (left) joined ND's Carl Yastrzemski and Miss High School of Connecticut to present Yaz with a picture of the campus in recognition of his baseball achievements while working toward a college degree. The gift was made in Boston on the occasion of "Connecticut Day in Fenway Park." 
had two spring speeches published. His *'ColIege Women and the Labor Slarkct," delivered to a career conference at Detroit's Marygrovc College, was published in the Catholic Counselor, and Inter­racial Review carried his report on "Youth Em­pIo>*ment Problems," a report to the New York City Youth Board. 
1929 
Larry Stauder Engineering BIdg. Notre Dame, Indiana 
JOE LENIHAN, our V-P for the East, is en route to the South and an anticipated x'isit with MICKEY McMAHON, another Wee-president of the Class of '29. Would you care to bet that the June 12-13-14 Class Reunion w*as not a topic of discussion? 
FRANCIS MEYER is doing more than his share, promotionally, for the same cause. His photo taken at the after-game get-together October 12 appears in this -issue of the ALUMNUS. Tlie stage coacli banner came w*ith him from Hammond and is now the permanent property of the Class. 
FATHER JOE BARRY, C.S.C. has not been on the TV screen with the football team this fall, but his press agent keeps him in the public eye. In­advertently, Father's name erroneously appeared in a recently mailed roster of the Class on the page with the deceased. He is, thank God, very mucli alive. He wrote recently "I'm sorry that I have a meeting to attend which conflicts with your Oct. 12 after-game reunion. FATHER (THO.\US) LANE's (C.S.C.) death was a real shock. I offered Mass for him after I received the word." 
Your sccrctan-, ANDY BOYLE '28, FATHER LOUIS THORNTON C.S.C., and others who were close to Father Lane were privileged to visit with some of his relatives who were on the campus for his funeral Mass. The faculty lost a competent member. Fatlier Lane had just recently returned from an active summer of research at Argonnc Na­tional Laboratory, ^vhcrc your secretary had visited with him briefly just a week before his death. 
On October 1, just a few da\-s before her 85th birthday, the mother of your secretary was taken to her reward for a Christian life of selfless scrx'ice. Mav she rest in peace. 
ROLAND SCHLAGER of Elgin, 111., and his daughter Mary* Ella, age 16, enjoyed the Southern Calif, game. Tliis was Mar>* Ella's first visit to the campus. She had lots to tell her sister, Martha Jane, 9, and her mother Merle. Roland, who prac­tices law in Chicago, expects to return next June with DR. JIM TOBIN of Elgin. 
JOHN T. KEARNS, wife Ruth and daughter Rosemary, a junior at Cliampaign (III.) High, likewise enjoyed the vIctor>', and a visit with James an N.D. Sophomore, who is a member of ALEX \MLSON*s strong cross-country team. In the recent meet w*ith Indiana U., Notre Dame took the first seven places. Tlic Keams family is expanding, daughter Ann will many Thomas Lyon on Decem­ber 28 in Champaign. Son, JOHN KEx\RNS '58 is taking Jane Grothaus, daughter of Brig. Gen. David Grothaus, as hb Nov. 16 bride in a Verdun, France, wedding. 
If you think you are busy compare your activities with those of Ruth (Reams) who also teaclics a class for the partially seeing. 
CLARENCE T. JANS, a handsome Culligan repre­sentative in Chicago, didn't bring pictures of his two red-headed grandsons but convinced us that the second Jans generation takes after granddad. Clarence's son is employed In Chicago by Continental Can Co. His daughter, a graduate of Marquette In '62, is executive sccrctarj- of the Sporting News in Chicago. There was some difference of opinion as to whether Clarence missed a previous Class reunion but none about his Intentions to return in June '6i. 
JIM CURRY \-isiied his classmates Oct 12, and his wife Kathr>*n listened to the game while visiting with rclatii'es. Their daughter Sheila M. is secretary to the vicc-pres. of the N. Y. Worlds Fair Corp., Gen. Potter, former governor of the Panama Canal Zone. 
RAY BREEN and wife Ethel attended the Oct. 12 party en route from home (Cleveland) to California. Their daughter Norecn took her final vou*s as an 
S.N.D. last August. She is Sister Mary Luisanne, a teacher at Canton, Ohio's St. Peter's School. Her sister, Patricia, teaches in Brunswick, O. Another sister. Nan, is a buyer for Sherwood Drugs. RAY­MOND K. BREEN '58 lives in Cleveland with his wife and five iJiIldren. He is a design engineer with Osbom Mfg. Co. Ray was back for the 25th re­union and plans to repeat in June. 
Wc extend our s>-mpathy to Mrs. Joseph J. Woz­nlak, Sr., 860 Aberdeen St., Akron 10, O., on the death of JOE WOZNIAK who died August 4. Your secretary roomed next door to Joe on Howard St. in 1928. 
ROBERT A. BUST died April 3. His son Robert A., Jr. receives his mall at Box III3, Ardmorc, Okla. Wc relay the sympathy of the Class to him. 
Others in South Bend, Oct. 12, include BOB and Virginia VOGEL^V-EDE, BILL and Ann CRAIG (wc will tell you more of them in the next issue), JOHN and Mar>- COLANGELO, JOHN and Doro­thy DORGAN, JOHN and Betty CUSHMAN, FRANCIS McANAN*Y, LOUIS NEIZER and no doubt others we fail to recall. 
One last Item, an erratum to an erratum: GENE GALDIBINI's address is 4821 Washington Blvd., Indianapolis; Gene has not been in Milwaukee for several years. From the Alumni Office: 
JOSEPH E. KEEFE recently sent a dipping to show that "one of your graduates is trying to cement good relations with the South Koreans." The story tells about Joe's son, LT. JEROME F. KEEFE '62, and his efforts as a liaison officer to teach English and Americanism to the people of Korea. 
FR. CHRISTOPHER J. OTOOLE, C.S.C., former superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, is now superior of CS.C. priests in Texas with headquarters at Austin's St. Mary's Cathedral. 
COL. JOHN HINKEL tipped the ofBcc on a story in the National Obsencr about JOHN KIM, former student from Korea who left to work with the late DR. TOM DOOLEY in Laos and is now married and attending Stanford. The Colonel re­cently returned from a five-week vbit to Europe with Mrs. Hinkel, inchiding two weeks in Spain for the first time since he covered the Civil War there for the N. Y. Times, plus Lourdes and a week in Berlin, where he took more than 300 pictures of the infamous Wall, returning to lecture rescr\'ists in Washington on the situation. John is Washing­ton chief for Kelly-Sandcrs-Hinkcl, Inc., public relations. 
Finally, erstwhile '29cr GERALD BILL should be proud of his two sons, Tony '62 starring in "Come Blow Your Horn" and "Soldier in the Rain," and John, a senior and already a professional singer with N.D.'s "Four Winds." Tony, incidentally, recently married a girl named Toni. If they arc doubly blessed, Grandpa Bill may have to worry about "which Tony lias the twins." 
1930 
Devore Plunkctt O'Shaughncssy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 

FR. ALBERT SCHLIT2ER, C.S.C. has taken over as acting head of the University's theology department while FR. ROBERT PELTON '43 U on leave of absence in Spain. In another interclass effort. Prof. LOUIS Hx\SLEY has joined FR. THO­MAS ENGLETON '43 on the resident faculty for Notre Dame's sophomore year program of studies at Innsbruck, Austria. 
From the Alumni Oflice: DR. JAMES REYNIERS is president of a new firm in northwestern St. Petersburg, Fla. The building in which it is located has no windows and covers 16,000 square feet, completely air conditioned. Believed to be the only lirm of its kind in the world, Germfrcc Products Inc. will serve industry-, government, research institutes and other organiza­tions, producing gcrmfrec animals, eggs, blood," tissues, plasma, and tissue culture lines. 
1931 
James T. Doylc 
805 W. Arcadia Ave. 
Arcadia, California 

Judging from the volume of correspondence re­ceived from 1931 classmates for our column I am led to believe that there is a leak from the Alumni Office regarding its admonition to Class Secretaries to edit their news and eliminate verbatim copies of letters received in order to conser\'c space so that the ALUMNUS can live within its limitations of space and budget. One of my faithful correspond­ents is JIM McQUAID, who always sends a report on his return to the campus for the annual retreat. He spent an hour with JI.M ARMSTRONG and indicated wc will be hearing many interesting things from him. Jim and his wife, Marie, in addition to running the bookstores at Vinccnncs University, arc cooperating with ihcir local Chamber of Commerce in getting out a new Guidebook on Historic Vin­ccnncs. Jim, still in the magazine subscription busi­ness, thanks all those good classmates who have taken the time to route their gift and renewal sub­scriptions through him. Be sure to remember him on any of those lalc Christmas gift changes or emergencies. 
 had a letter from DON OTOOLE concerning BILL TAYLOR, who had moved to Flossmoor, III. After living there about three months, Don ad­vises. Bill was suddenly taken with a heart attack and died within a few minutes. Tliis occurred about a year ago. I have had no previous news of Bill's death from the Alumni Oflice. I have received a notice from the University telling of the death of WILLIAM B. CRONIN, 521 E. Jefferson St., Hart­ford City, Ind., who died September 17, 1963. The sympathy of the class is extended to their families. Please remember ihcm in your prayers. TOM ASHE and his wife, Kathy, celebrated their 25th wedding anniversary' September 28th at the New-porter Inn, Balboa Beach, Calif. They could not have chosen a better place in view of the unusual heat wave which struck the Los Angeles area at that time. I W3S In Chicago at that time and Tom called me a few days later. He brought news of FRANK LEDDY, a Howard Haller and a tall, lanky blond. Frank Is an usher at the ten o'clock Mass at the church on Balboa Island every Sunday. He is in the paint business there and looks much 
DR. RICHARD R. BAKER, '31, '34, Ml "Three-Time Loser" Explodes a Myth 

It is an academic truism that a scholar who takes all three degrees from one uni­versity is not only persona non grata at his own alma mater but has three strikes against him at other institutions; hence today's mad scramble to "mix" one's scho­lastic pedigree with degrees from two or three top schools. But Dick Baker, with bachelor's, master's and doctorate from Notre Dame, has gone far toward exploding that myth as one of the most respected 
like he did during school days. This is vcr>' in­terestingf that Frank should turn up again, as 1 had put out a feeler as to his whereabouts in the ALUMNUS previously. During my visit east, I had lunch with EDDIE RYiVN and he had asked me if I had ever had any trace of Frank on the West Coast. Today being the 12ih of October, the R^VYMO.VD F. COLLINSES are celebrating their wedding anniversary in Kalamazoo visiting the JERRY DESMONDS, whose second daughter is being married today. My wife and I had dinner with the GIL SE.\MxVNS who have moved from Oak Park to the Carl Sandburg Terrace Apartments on the near north side of Chicago. This will mean no more climbing steps for Gil, who has made wonderful recovcr\* from his heart attack of a year ago. I also talked to BILL LE^VHYj who reports seeing BEN OAKES in Chicago on business re­cently. WALTER CrVHILL's daughter will be married in November. While in the Loop I made good my promise to visit GENE COYLE, Director of Internal Revenue for the Northern Illinois Dis­trict. Gene has returned to Chicago after an ab­sence of 15 years. His son is now a student at Notre Dame. Due to business I had to miss the Wisconsin-Notrc Dame pre-gamc luncheon at Wie­boldt's on Friday the 27th. I had hoped to see 
many of my friends there. 

I also visited the Notre Dame Club,of Chicago Oflice and had a chance to say farewell to Manan Korrell, one of the girls who handled club office activities for many years. I particularly appreciat­ed her assistance during my five-year tenure of office as club treasurer and I am sure every affair chair­man is grateful for her help in making their tasks easier. Marian, thanks from those '31 men who held office or ran affairs when you were there to help them. I am sure the present regime properly remembered and thanked you for your many years of scr\-ice to the club. 
Tlic TOM ASHE Travel Agcnc>- trip to the Stan­ford-Notrc Dame game has been sold out for some time. Please remember to send a report of the \*anous games you may attend and visits with other classmates. This has been written on a warm sunny 
faculty members at the University of Dayton and a celebrity of educational radio and television. 
In October Dr. Baker, professor of phi­losophy at Dayton, ^vas named to the top-Icvel Academic Council, the only layman below the rank of dean or director ever appointed. Also in October he began a series of educational telecasts on "Great Philosophers of the Western World," a 13-weck series covering philosophers from Plato to Hegel. And he has gained a measure of nationwide fame as official pro­nouncer for the annual National Spelling Bee, held each spring in Washington, D.C. 
A native of Dayton, Dick also went to school in Toledo, Lima, Detroit and Cleve­land before getting his A.B. and M.A. at Notre Dame. He taught at Nazareth Col­lege, Mich., from 1937 to 1945, becoming assistant professor of philosophy when he won his Ph.D. and subsequently teaching at that rank for two years at St Mary's College, Calif., and at Dayton for another year before appointments as associate pro­fessor in 1948 and full professor in 1958. .•Xt Dayton he has served as chairman of the Lay Faculty Council, vice-chairman of the Faculty Forum and commencement speaker, winning the coveted .\lumni Faculty Award this year before his unprecedented ad perso­nam appointment. 
A frequent contributor to educational journals with articles on philosophy, religion and international law, he was East Central Conference chairman for the .American Catholic Philosophical Assn. and is a popu­lar panelist and moderator on educational TV. In 1937 he married Martha Jane Foose, and the Bakers now live in Dayton with a son and four daughters, two of them Dayton students. 
day and will be read by many on a cold, snowy day in December. A very Merry Christmas with God's Blessing to all the men of 1931. 
From the Alumni Office: JOSEPH J. KEARNEY has been appointed new manager, receiving and picture tube merchandising, for RCA. 
1932 
James K. Collins 
2982 Torrington Rd. 
Shaker Heights, Ohio 
Wc were extremely saddened to learn of the death of JOE COOKE on September 16. The heart­felt sympathy and prayers of the Class have been extended to his family. A Mass was said on the Campus on October 5 by REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., for him. 
Wc were sorry abo to learn of the death of EMMETT FERGUSON who received his LL.B. with our Class. Emmctt's son, D.ANIEL FERGU­SON, was graduated in tlie Class of '61. 
REMI RENIER, a It. colonel in the Army, has been busily at work on the missile program. His present address is 30-A Poinciana Drive, Satellite Beach, Florida. 
BOB LEE has returned to the U. S. and is now living at the Navy Yard, Philadelphia. Bob, a Navy captain, has been in Icebnd for three years, and is now the legal officer of the 4th Naval District. 
JOHN LITCHER recently visited in Shaker Heights, so ^ve had a telephone conversation with Bob. Litch, IKE TERRY and T£ 0 HALPIX led quite a group from Milwaukee for the Southern Cal game. 
From the Alumni Office: The engagement of Miss Alice Joyce Yarr, daughter of the late THOMAS C. (TOMMY) YARR, to Lance Cpl. Joseph WiHiam James HI 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
o( the Marine Corps, was announced by her mother. An early autumn wedding in Greenwich, Conn., was planned. 

LLOYD G. WATERSOX, manager and sccrctarv­treasurer of the Credit Bureau of South Bend, has been elected Wcc-chairman of the credit reporting division committee of .Associated Credit Bureaus of America. Your Class Secrctarj', JAMES K. COL­LINS, has been nominated to serve a three-year term as a director of the National Association of Oil Equipment Jobbcre. FRANK A. CONSOLATI has been elected president of tlic South Council, Tliomas Sherwin Chapter of the Telephone Pioneers of America. Frank and his wife, Ruth, have four dauglitcrs and a son, and live in Milton, ^fass.. where he has long been active in the Voutli Club and served as cliairman of the Scholarship Com­mittee and past president of the Boston N.D. club. He is active in other civic groups. 
PROF. FR.\NCIS J. 0*MALLEY, a specialist in the philosophy of literature and the relationship 
', between literature and religion, was speaker at the commrnccment c-xcrcises at Gilmour Academy, Gates Mills, Ohio, last June. NEIL HURLEY returned from a two-week busi­ness trip in Italy in time to be named *'Tlic International Chicagoan of the Year." He also was 
'- named a member of the Chicago committee for the Fund for the Republic, Inc. 
FATHER TONY WEBER, C.S.C., e\cn though he is busy rebuilding Holy Family Hospital in Virika, Uganda, East Africa, where he is chaplain to the Medical Missionary Sisters; busy preparing conferences and rebuilding a retreat house for the Holy Cross Misslonaires; still finds time to do some fishing at Lake .-Mbert. Father Weber said, "In all of my years of missionar>' work, what has 
r impressed mc most is the wonderful generosity of my friends back home. They have been my greatest blessing.*' 
An article about lUY GEIGER, publisher of Maine's Fanner's Almanac, appeared in the August issue of The Catholic Digest. On the home front, 
( Ray rented a billboard to proclaim to all: "Join with mc, Lcwiston-Aubum friends, by ^\•itncssing this declaration. . . . Thank you, Ann: for fifteen wonderful years; for five excellent children; for patient understanding; for helpful appreciation of my busy sdiedule; for the' truly Christian home you have provided for us. Devotedly, Ray. On the fifteenth wedding anniversar>* of Ray and Ann Geigcr, Sept. 25, 1963." Paul Harvey repeated the message on ABC Radio. Just imagine other wives being content with a mere card or gift after hearing of the public tribute Geigcr paid to his wife! 
NCWC's JOHN E. RYAN has been keeping us posted on things happening to N.D. men in the Washington area and by sending us newspaper clippings. Manv thanks, John. 
Archbishop PAUL J. HALLIN.AN, LL.D. '32, canied a Ph.D. in Instorj' at Western Reser\'e U. this past June. 
1933 
John A. Hoyt, Jr. Gillespie & O'Connor 342 Atadison Ave. New York 17, N.Y. 
ED ECKERT, just back from one Reunion, now has to face up to a second one. His wife Carolyn will be taking active part this fall in her 30th Reunion at the College of St. Rose, Albany, New York. Ed's second son Jerr>% one of the better junior golfers in the East, just entered St. John Fisher College in Rocliester as a freshman. 
The University, through JIM ARMSTRONG, has accepted a bequest on behalf of the Class of 1933, solicited in connection vrith our XXX Reunion. Tlic gift to the University is to be used to perpetuate an annual Memorial ^lass for the deceased mem­bers of our Class. Annually on December Slst of each year a Mass will be said at the University for all deceased members of the Class and in particular, those who died during the expiring year. This year December 31st falls on a Tuesday. It has been suggested that the date and the reminder of the Memorial Mass be given advance notice in our class column so that those of us at home might be able to join in the Memorial by attendance at Mass in tlieir local community on the same day. 
Tlic following members of our Class died during 1963: AUSTIN SULLIVAN, HOWARD FISCHER and EDMUND MICHAEL O'DONNELL, LL.B. **In Paradisum Dcducant Tc Angeli." 
Tragedy crept into our Reunion weekend. While LEO HODEL was at tlic Reunion, his ^vifc. Katherinc, met with a tragic accident arising out of 
34-Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
EUGENE G. RAU, '33 After the Moles, Back Digging Holes 

Winding up his term this year as presi­dent of The Moles, association of the out­standing heavy construction contractors and engineers in the U.S., Gene Rau of West­field, N.J., has gone back with a venge­ance to his first love — hcaxy excavation and construction — as executive vice-presi­dent and chief engineer for J. Rich Steers, Inc. 
Bom in the heart of New York — East 55th Street — Gene has been a resident of New Jersey since he \ras eight years old. In 1929 he matriculated at Notre Dame, and four years later, with a degree in civil engineering, found cmploj-ment with the Steers organization on railroad and subway construction for the Pcnns>'K-ania Railroad in Newark. Starting as a material checker, he worked into engineering within a year and in 1936 was made field engineer for another PennsyK-ania R.R. job in Linden, N.J. 
In 1940, after a couple of years of desk work in the New York office, he went to the Brookl>'n Nax-y Yard as design engineer foi dock construction and supcr\'ised construc­tion until the summer of 1943, when he enlisted as a Lieut, (j.g.) in the Na\*y Civil Engineer Corps, .'\ftcr a year of drydock construction in California, he shipped out to the South Pacific for 19 months as execu­tive officer of a Seabee detachment as­sembling floating sectional battleship dry-docks in \'arious ad\-ancc bases. Rejoining Steers after V.J.. Day, he was a designing engineer in the New York office. In 1948 he was named vice-president and chief engi­neer. He has super\-ised bridge, dock and plant construction all along the East Coast, in South America, Europe, .'\frica and Greenland. 
Gene is married and has two children, Carol Ann, 16, and William, 15. Licensed in several states and a member of many engineering clubs and societies, he finds time for an occasional golf game at Baltusrol Golf Club. 
a fire in the family home in E\*anston. Mrs. Hodel died at the St. Francis Hospital in E\'anston Sunday 
. morning, June 17. 1963, as a result of 3rd degree bums. We extend our condolences to Leo and his family. 
The weekend following the Reunion, Sally Eckert, the daughter of ED ECKERT, our Class president, was married in Loudonville, N. Y. Father JIM DONNELLY was at the altar for the wedding Mass. JOE CLARK from Poughkeepsie joined the Hoyts for the wedding. 
CHARLIE CONLEY of Philadclpliia uas vcry activc in the successful celebration of the Centenar>' of the Battle of Gettysburg. Congratulations to him and to those who worked so closely with him on a job well done. 
Tlie only sur\'iving dignitary who presided at our commencement in June of 1933 is Father CHARLES 
E. COUGHLIN, Pastor of the Shrine of the Little Flower at Royal Oak, Michigan. On the anni\"ersar\' of our 30lli commencement date Father Coughlin ver>' graciously said a Mass for the parents of the members of the Class of 1933. His moving and touching letter to the president of our Class was read at our Class Dinner. It bears repetition here, especially for those who did not have the good fortune of reluming for the Reunion. Father Cough­lin wrote: *^In the intervening years maturity and success have come to most of us, together with an immeasurable fund of grace which, I trust, all of us will acquire from holding fast to the principles taught to us by our parents and our spiritual guides at Notre Dame. 
"On this day, therefore, may the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass be offered for those parents, many of whom have gone to their reward, while others have grown old gracefully in the seri'ice of God and countr\*. 
"May you gentlemen dctcnninc to make a magnificent contribution to Church and State as glorious as that which was made by your fathers and mothers before you!*' 
A thoughtful note has come in from TOM SEX­TON from Chicago stating that he enjoyed the Reunion "immensely." 
JOE BUSHER, treasurer of Semrow Products, writes that Semrow is expanding and now owns Radio Broadcasting Station WNMP at Ex-anston. 
A recent report has reached us that PHIL FAHERT\' was unable to attend the Reunion due to a fatal auto accident suffered by his father on the eve of the Reunion. 
To those of us who may have the occasion to travel through New England, Father FRt\NK GARTLAND, C.S.C., extends a cordial inntation from the Holy Cross Seminar^' at North Easton, 
ARTHUR L. CONRAD '35 is now rice-
president for employee and public rela­
tions at Flick-Reedy Corp., Bcnscnville, 
HI., having joined the firm in 1936 as a director and public-relations counselor. 
Currently president of the NO Club of Chicago, Art is also president of the Heritage Foundation, publishing and pub­lic-relations consultants, and founded the Chicago Municipal Court's driver-improvement school. He is married and lives in Chicago. He has four children. 
Massachusetts. Father Frank continues as Director 
of recruitment for the Eastern Province of the 
Holy Cross Congregation. 
Reunion tidbits: ED DALY at the Reunion for a 

long earned rest. As the father of 11 children, lie 
is kept quite busy at home. 
FRANK McGEE, the busiest man in Bridgeport 

—tax assessor for the City of Bridgeport, president 
of the McGee Venetian Blind Company and "Mast­
er" Scout for the Boston Red Sox. 
BILL LYNCH writes that Father JIM DON­

NELLY was hospitalized for a sliort time in Austin, 
Texas; that DICK MEx\D has moved back West 
and is now living in Los Altos, California and JIM 
McL^VUGHLIN's two oldest boys arc now in Col­
lege at Rensselaer, Indiana 
.MARSHAL McWANEY unable to return for our 

Reunion because of family illness, reports tliat alPs 
well including his two grandcliildrcn. His two 
boys arc now attending Fairletgh Dickinson College, 
in Teancck, New Jersey. 
GEORGE ROHRS recently played golf with 

GENE RAU. Gene, vice-president of J. Rich Steers 
Engineering Co., has just landed the job of re­
building both the U. S. Lines and the Belgian Line 
Piers in New York Harbor. 
George ran into BILL WALSH in New York 

during the summer. Bill had just returned from 
3 round the world trip. 
From the .\lumni Oflicc: 
JOHN B. CROWE is now asst. counsel of Asso­ciates Investment Co. in South Bend, after serving as a stair attorney since *58. LOUIS R. CHREIST JR., president of South Bend Toy Mfg. Co., Inc., has been elected to the hoard of directors of Tower Federal Savings & Loan /\ssn. in South Bend. FRANCIS M. JOSEPH, new vice-president for engineering at Inland Motor Corp., moved in August with his wife and seven children to Radford, Va., where Inland has its main plant. 
TIGHE E. WOODS, Washington, D.C.. real estate dealer, who sold a home in Chevy Chase, Md., to a Negro family, reports he has received threats of business reprisals from other real estate firms. Tlghe said, "They have been accepted by their neighbors and there has been no trouble." 
1934 
T. Edward Carey 223 Elmwood Rd. Rocky River 16, Ohio 
From the Alumni Oflice; 
J. WALTER KENNEDY, former National Basketball /\ssn. publicist and now president of the NBA, officially stepped down as mayor of Stamford, Conn., near the end of his second two-year term in office, to take over his new duties on Sept. 1. FR/\NK L. LINTON, vice-pres. and comptroller. Allied Chemical Corp., N. Y., has been named a trustee of tim Financial Executives Research Founda­tion, research ann of Financial Executives Institute. 
JOHN J. HANLEY received his M.S. in Edu­cation this past June at Tufts U. Our sympathy to BOB C\HILL on the death of his sister, Afarian, on July 29. 
Sad news from JACK ROBINSON—had to have his other leg amputated because of a blood clot again. 
BILL MOTSETT and CHARLEY QUINN arc trustees for the Ft. Lauderdale N.D. Club. Charley said it must be their sagacity. 
JOHN MALJ\ N recently returned to visit N.D. after an absence of about 33 years. He had praise for just about cver>'thing and included an offering in menior\' of a former classmate, LOUIS STAEL­ENS. 
August 8. "Dear Bob (Cahill): Right now I*m giving a test in business fundamentals to my 17 sophs in summer school, which ends tomorrow. The culc little dears have until 1 V.M. to answer 20 thcor>' questions and solve 5 problems. A few weeks ago, I finished a two weeks* workshop in Economics' Current Problems & Trends at U. of Bridgeport—hottest two weeks of the summer so far. 
"And on Sunday, Win and I start our 2Gth year of married life—our three sons and three daughters have arranged a *surprise?' party for Saturday night at the Stepney Vol. Fire Co., of which I am a 16-year member. 
"Your 'Funny Tiling Happened' (April-May ALUMNUS) reads as if you had been inspired by some of our justly famous Upper Stepney Orchard Dew Deluxe! Very good. 
" I finish my two-year hitch as Monroe town treasurer with the election on Oct. 7—wife wouldn't let me run again because it's so terribly tirac-and­cncrgy-consuming. We are only four N.D. men in Monroe: Rcpubs—self, JOE GORMLEY and JOE McNAMARA (Pope's scc'y, in '28 or '29); Demo — DU/VNE HULL (my severest critic) — and Duanc has been nominated for the position by the Demos. Should be an interesting campaign! 
"Oldest boy. Bill, in Army Signal Corps as­signed to the White House—now at two weeks' school in Chicago. .. . he was out there with me in '54- to reunion. 
"Hope to see you in X. Y. in Nov.—and at N.D. for the 30th next June! Best regards, BILL O'BRIEN." 
Patty, the voungest child (14) and the onlv daughter of ^f^. and Mrs. JA.MES J. O'BRIEN, is becoming Pittsficld's most promising feminine golfer. In her first tr>* for the Allied junior championship of Berkshire County in July, Patty walked away with the top honors, shooting an 84. Patty has played in two national amateur junior tournaments—last year at Buffalo, N. Y., she lost her match on the 17th hole to a 17-year-old. In February she won the Catholic Youth Center's junior Ping-Pong championship witliout losing a single game in four matches, defeating a field of 22 bo>*s ' —the first lime a girl had won. She also skis and plays a little tennis. 
When the newspaper strike was over in N.Y.C., RED SMITH and ARTHUR DALEY each wrote articles on HUGHIE DEVORE and Notre Dame, to bring the fans in that area up-to-date on N.D. happenings. 
FR. WILLIAM MONAGHAN, C.S.C, celebrated the 2jlh anniversary of his ordination on June 24th at Holy Ghost Church at Tutel Mission, East Paki­stan, where he is pastor. 
1935 
Franklyn Hochreiter 702 Scarlet Dr. Towson 4, Afaryland 
From the Alumni Office: EUGENE L. O'BRIEN has left the paint mfg. company founded by his grandfather to become president of Baltimore Paint & Chemical Corp. DR. ARTHUR L. CONR.\D former public rela­tions counselor, has been named vice-pres. for employee and public relations of FHck-Recdy Corp., Benscnville, III. Prior to his executive appointment at FHck-Recdy, Art was director of the Traffic Education & Safety div. of the ^funicipal Court of Chicago, and founded the Driver Improvement School which was cited by the .American Bar /\ssn. as the "finest of its kind in the US." Long active in civic and community affairs, he was named "Man of the Year" by the Chicago Civitan Club for his safety work. He has four children, is married and lives in Chicago. 
SR. MARY PHILOTHE.\ KRA.MER, S.S.N.D., one of our co-cds, received an MS in education from St. Louis U. this past June. Deciding to complete a college career started at N.D. during the early 1930*5 and cut short by the Depression, JAMES REILLY picked up his diploma for successfully majoring in English at the Fordham School of Edu­cation night branch this past June on the same day his son, James Jr., received a diploma from Fordham College. 
FRANK HOCHREITER scored again; according to Baltimore's Playboy Magazine he is playing the prosecutor brilliantly in **The Deadly Game." 
WILLIAM E. MILLER has relinqubhed his party post as national diairman and will not seek re­election to Congress. Bill wants to spend more time with his family and to return to the pri\'ate practice of law in BulTalo. 
REV. VINCENT C. THIL.\UN, C.S.C., Water­town, \Vu., returned to Soutli Bend and was master of ceremonies at a United Fund report luncheon in October. 
1936 
Joseph J. Waldron 70 Black Rock Road Yardley, Pennsylvania 
From the Alumni Office: 
EDWARD T. McNALLY, president of the ^^c-Nally Pittsburg Mfg. Corp., was elected to the board of directors of Kansas Gas & Electric Co. He is a director of Monarch Cement Co., Humboldt; Besse Hotel and the First State Bank, Pittsburg; Commerce Trust Co., Kansas City, Mo.; Chicago Great Western Railway Co., Chicago; and the ^fcNally-Bird Engineering Co., Calcutta, India. He scr\'ed on the board of the American Mining Con­gress and is chairman of its mfg. div. He is active in civic, religious, and fraternal organizations. £d and wife Edythc have six children—even score—3 for N.D. and 3 for St. Mary's. 
Ted Carpenter of the News Bureau, Marquette U., Milwaukee, sent us the above information clipped from his home-town paper (the Oswego, Kans., Democrat). He sends his best to his friends from U.N.D. 
1937 
Joseph P. Qiiinn 
P.O. Box 275, Lake Lenapc Andover, New Jersey 
From the Alumnt Office: REV. PATRICK PEYTON, CS.C. was selected to receive the "Ver>* Important Person" award for 1963 along with 11 others by the Illinois Club for Catholic Women. Tlicy cite Catholic leaders of "extraordinary* achievement" in different fields of .American life at their annual VIP Show. Father Peyton was named for being a leader for 21 years of a world-wide movement for family recitation of the rosarv' ("A world at prayer is a world at peace"). REV. CILVRLES J. CORCORAN CS.C. has been appointed superior of Holv Cross House at N.D., replacing REV. CHARLES CALIAHAX, CS.C , who is con\*alescing from a recent illness and will be reassigned later. 
AMARILLO AFB, TEX. — Members of the  Hammond, Ind., ND Boostcis 
Club examine a cockpit assembly used in training of jet aircraft mechanics at 3320th Technical School, Amarillo Technical Training Center, on the way back from Palo Alto, Calif., where they saw the ND-Stanford footlKdl game. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 35 
1938 
Bomie Bauer 
1139 Western Avenue 
South Bend 25, Ind. 
One complaint, one check, one notice, one reser\'a­
tion for the 30th reunion and a lot of happy words 
followed in the wake of our 25th reunion. Plus 
bundles of returned questionnaires, hooray! The 
complaint was from BILL ^fcNA^L^RA whose name 
was omitted from the reunion list and now has a 
lost weekend to explain to his wife. Bill, BOB 
DERENGOSKI and other lav\*>'ers who got their 
degrees a year later are victims of an alumni filing 
system that is done witli the eye and not the heart, 
but is being corrected whenever possible. The check 
u-as from BILL XLAHONEY, O.P., from his Domini­
can House of Studies in River Forest, to help the 
reunion committee balance the books or a glass— 
as the situation dictates, he indicated. The rescr\'a­
tion for the next reunion came from CHUCK 
BEASLEY, who missed the reunion because of a 
bum back. The notice is from DON' HICKEY, who 
says he has extra reunion memoriam programs if 
you ^^•ant. 
CHUCK BE.4SLEY reported that his son is a 
freshman at N.D. this year. He also sent the sad 
news of ED BARTNETT's death June 23rd as a 
result of an ulcer and ruptured esophagus. Ed's 
father later sent me his obituary and included a 
freshman composition excerpt about Notre Dame 
which said: " I have never regretted it (clioosing 
Notre Dame); it seems to mc to be perfect in ever\* 
way. It was ver>' good for mc to get far away 
from home and associate with fellows from all parts 
of the country. From them I have learned many 
\ieupoints, t>*pcs of fellows, ways of doing things, 
opinions on many subjects, and even dialects, that 
would be impossible to discover in any other ^^'ay. 
I fully expect my next three years here to educate 
mc in every way far more than I had dreamed pos­
sible last sxunmer.** Ed worked as a reporter for the 
N. Y. Times almost ever since leaving N.D. and left two daughters whom Ed's father asks that we remember in our prayers. His father concluded: **It brings us some measure of consolation to re­member that he was a real Notre Dame man— alu-ays lo\'aI to its traditions and its tcaclnngs." May others say the same of all of us. 
GREGG KEEG.\N, from his Ia\*- ofHcc in St. 
Louis sent his regrets in missing the silver-haired 
roundup and included a news clipping of JIM 
RAAF, who spent his \-acation from Santiago, 
Chile driving his family (wife and six daughters) 
around the countr>' in a mobile home on wheels. 

Jim has worked for the Grace company in three 
different countries in South America for the past 
twenti'-two years. 
CHARLES CALLAHAN sent me a letter from 

CARLETON MACDOUGALD, who, despite his 
crrippling injuries in that auto-hurricane accident a 
few years back, took part in the Freedom ^farch 
to Washington with his three girls, eight, nine 

and ten. There he \'isited with TOM HE.-\LY and 
HANK LE.ADER. Carlcton also mentioned that 
JIM MCCARTHY, the New Haven lad who mar­
ried Mary Agnes Crepcau of South Bend, wrote the 
introduction to one of Chet Huntley's programs 
called "Mobilization for Youth." 
\Miich reminds me that on a trip to Washington, D.C., in October with the Chamber of Commerce, wherein I had a chance to shake hands with that Har\'ard boy w*ho keeps asking about the Victory March on records all the time, I had dinner with DR. JIM CORCORAN and JOHNNY BRAD­DOCK. 
A thank you letter to the reunion committee came 

from BOB MAZANEC on Brou*nson hall stationery, 
and another one from Father JOE R.ACE pre­
dicted that Hughie would have problems finding a 
quarterback. I had problems with my back after 
Father Joe sat behind me in the Wisconsin game. 
Despite the forearm shivers, I enjoyed Joe's com­ments to LEN SKOGLUND who sat next to him. Twined in with me were DON FISHER, JOHN COlilNGHAM and a good part of section nine. John Cottingham's son Is a freshman here this year, too. At the Southern California game DR. JACK LUNDGREN took in his second N.D. game at the stadium since graduation. Jack lives in California and had Vice-President Nixon as one of his patients. The night before, DR. DAN MONAGHAN, who used to commute to St. Mary's-of the-^Voods regular­ly but somehow has managed to stay out of the matiimonial woods since, almost had me for a patient as we celebrated FRANK LEAHY'S rousing talk at the K. of C. football smoker. 
A note from the Alumni Office says HARRY BERNBROCX died In Quincy, Illinois last March 3. 
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 2963 
ERNEST L. LANOIS, '37, '39 
In Tractors, the Financial Driver's Seat 

In Milwaukee. Wis., Ernest Lanois, former manager of tractor group budgets for Allis-Chalmers, has been appointed comptroller for farm equipment divisions and will take on several additional responsibilities. He will handle budget matters, anal>'ze and e\*aluatc requests for capital expenditures, and co­ordinate the functions of the comptrollers of farm equipment plants at West Allis and La Crosse, Wis., Independence, Mo., La Porte, Ind.. and Oxnard, Calif. 
Ernie Lanois joined Allis-Chalmers as an accountant at its La Porte har\-ester plant in 1939. Two years later he moved to Mil­waukee as works comptroller of the firm's supercharger plant. In 1947 he \vas named assistant supervisor of tractor accounting and was promoted to super\'isor in 1949. He moved up to general works comptroller in 1955 and three years later was appointed manager of tractor group budgets, the post he has held until now. He is a member of the National Association of Accountants. 
A native of Lynn, Mass., Ernie was raised in La Porte. He received a commercial science degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1937 and a law degree two years later. 
Ernie and wife GabricUe have a son Michael, 18, and a daughter, Mary, 9. Deputy Grand Knight of the La Porte Knights of Columbus at the time of his transfer to Milwaukee, Ernie has partici­pated in Junior Achievement and was active in Red Cross and the United Fund as com­pany chairman. Active in \'arious parish campaigns, he has been president of St. John Vianney Holy Name Society, Brook­field, Wis. A devoted golfer, sailor and fisherman, he has been active in Milwaukee's South Shore Yacht Club and Wcstmoor Country Club. 
Pray for him, classmates. And anyone with further neu-s, please send it in. 

Also, those few of you who have not sent in the questionnaire, do it now! We hope to compile the Class of 1938 Who's Who over the holidays. With the help of FATHER BILL MAHONEY's check, which will have been converted into a liquid asset by then. A big Thanksgiving to all of you who-came to our wonderful (because you were there) silver-and-grecnback reunion, and Christmas Cheer, Cheer for you (now) ole Notre Damers. 
From the Alumni Office: RICHARD J. GERM.ANX has been named pro­duction mgr. at the Cincinnati div. of Mead Corp. WILLIAM F. MURPHY formerly ^vitll the N.D. Foundation, has become associated with R. S. Dick­son & Co., Inc., NYC, investments firm. JAMES 
E. MCCARTHY, the father of three grown chil­dren, Is still interested in the street gangs of New York and was a key figure In the Mobilization for Youth program of Pres. Kennedy. In 1939 he began working xvlth Catholic Charities in New York, beginning a crarcer In social work that he has never left. NICK LAMBERT O IS still getting around a lot at the rate of 1,055 miles an Iiour In a Voodoo jet Interceptor, according to an article In the Des Moines Sunday Register in which he describes the trip. Speaking of trips, .Ambassador WILLIAM P. MAHONE Y had an article in the Arizona Days and Wa>-5 Magazine about his trip to Ghana and about his new life with his family there. 
REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C., spoke at a civic gathering in South Bend on Sept. 11, indicating Notre Dame's interest In a research-Industrial park to encourage development in the South Bend-MIshawaka area. Father Hcsburgh also spoke at a Notre Dame-sponsored Battle of Gettys­burg centennial observance. He said, "The Civil War did not solve the tragic issue. It merely re­established the proposition and left to us the task of making the promise of our Constitution come true for all Americans," 
1939 
James N. Motschall Singcr-Motschall Corp. 10090 West Chicago Detroit 4, Michigan 
From the Alumni Office: Former N.D. sociology Prof. LOUIS A. RADE­LET was recently appointed professor of police administration and public safety at Midiigan State 
U. He has been director of the National Con­ference of Christians and Jews since 1932 and editor of the "National Newsletter in Police and Community Relations" since 1956. At MSU, he will direct the National Institute of Police and Community Relations. Lou is a member of the National .\ssoc. of Intergroup Relations Officials, the adult Education Assn. of U.S., the American Cath­olic Sociological Society and the Catholic Inter­racial Council of Detroit. 
FRANK WALKER '50, editor of the Bcckman Instruments, Inc., magazine. The Analj'zer, sent us a copy of the July issue containing an article by JULL\N PLEAS.\N*TS, "The Prime Biological Instrument" about our Lobund, where Julian works. 
1940 
James G. Brown 144 East 44th Street New York, New York 
From the Alumni OfHcc: SR. MARY ROES^VYN KOCH, S.S.N.D., one of our summer scliool co-eds, received her doctor of philosophy from St. Louis U. on June I. JAMES HENRY MONTEDONICO, Ph.B. *40, received his master of arts this spring from the George Peabody College for Teachers. EDWARD 
J. NEALE has been promoted from associate prof to professor of education at Los Angeles State Col­lege. Ed, wUc Rosamond and two children live in Long Beach. 
WAYNE F. WAHL, branch manager for IBM in South Bend, was promoted to IBM accounts manager for the petroleum Industry In Tulsa, Okla., as of August I. JOHN M. WOLF has joined Mueller Brass Co., Port Huron, Mich., as assistant to the president in cliargc of special studies and projects. It Is planned that he will succeed the vice-president of finance on hb scheduled retirement in October, *65. 
1941 

James F. Spdlman 7 East 42nd Street New York 17. New York 
This column will be a short one for the simple reason that you *4Icrs have not furnished your old and balding secretary with any news; nor has any­body contributed dues since the last list published. 
*• You might say our status is static! However, there are a couple of tidbits of informa­
* lion that the class might enjoy reading. One of them concerns RICHIE MEAD, who like your scribe is an Air Force Reservist, and who works in the Big City, also. Richie phoned me in July to tell me that he believed he would be the latest and 
' perhaps the oldest member of the class to become a father again; his daughter, Sheila, made her debut into this weary world on July 9. Now, it would 
' have been magnanimous and charitable on my part to accept that event without further ado. However, 
* since I am the oldest member of the class (is that right, .\L Del 20PP0?) I had to maintain my seniority in all matters. So, your scribe and his lovely new wife. Eve, became parents of a brand new son, James F., Jr., on September 9th. Maybe he will be N.D. of 1985!! Sorrj*, Richie!! The class extends congratulations to Rich, his wife and their newest. Incidentally, Rich is associated with \V. R. Grace & Co. 
JOHNNY O'LOUGHLIN phoned the end of September to send his and FRANK KENNEDY'S best wishes. John is an ofHcial with the telephone company in Chicago. He promises to call again. 
That's the extent of our column, unless the Alumni OfHce has something additional. So, let's loosen up, you classmates, and write your secretar>'. 
From the Alumni Office: 
After the first of the year WILLIAM E. COTTER will be working in Pittsburgh instead of Duluth, ' Minn. His wife, Mar>', is going to wait until 
school is out for the children before Joining him. DAVID I. POWERS is now residing at 4377 Commonwealth, LaCanada, Calif. 
We hope you read "Spotlight" feature on this page about "Tlie JOHN SOONG Story: from Slow Boat to Jet." 
1942 

WUIiam M. Hickey 3333 West 47th Place Qiicago 32, Illlnob 
NEWS FROM ENGINEERING SCHOOL: GEORGE CROWLEY lias returned from England to become Vice President-Engineering of the Norge Division, Borg-Warncr Corporation at staff head­quarters, Chicago. TOM BRANNIGAN now lives in Arcadia, California, where he b Vice President of B. M. Holt Co., Consultant Engineers. He is head of the research and chemical manufacturing activities. His activities in the Los Angeles area have involved him recently with AL McGUIRE, General Manager of American Chemical Co., BILL MORROW, Vice President-Sales of Bralco Ifetals, and BOB HERRINGTON, Allied Chemical Co. Tom and his family (two boys) thoroughly enjoy the Los Angeles area. 
From the Alumni Office: PAUL B. LILLIS has left Bron.-cville, N. Y., to reside at 53(H South Madison, Hinsdale, III. RAYMOND J. DONOVAN was named to the newly created position of Mishawaka managing editor of the South Bend Tribime. He will have full responsibility for the news coverage in the Mishawaka section and will be in complete charge of the city news staff in Mishawaka. On the family side of the story Ray and Dorothy have twin chil­dren, Michael and Patricia. The new head of the department of physics at N.D. is Prof. CHARLES 
J. MULLLV, Ph.D. '42. Chuck and wife Marcella have two sons and four daughters. JAMES P. DOYLE was elected a member of the governing Council of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants on October 9. 
ROBERT H. RAAF, general manager of the Milwaukee div. of V. La Rosa & Sons, Inc., has been elected a vice-president. He currently holds the rank of commander in the Naval Air Reserve and is the commanding officer of a jet squadron in Milwaukee. He lives with his wife and four chil­dren in Brookfield, Wb. 
JOHN SOONG, '41 Me! Foo for the Lamps of Hong Kong 

More than 25 years ago John Soong boarded a slow boat from China for Notre Dame. Last summer he jetted back to Hong Kong as general manager of Afei Foo or "Beautiful Confidence," local name for the Hong Kong branch of Socony Mobil Petroleum Co. Back in the U.S. for a three-month training tour, he was inter­viewed by the New York Times and other papers on his important assignment and colorful personal history. 
Bom in Husan province and reared in Peiping, John left Hong Kong in 1937 with a scholarship at Notre Dame. He won a 
B.S.
 in accounting and an M.B.-A. from the 

U.
 of Chicago (supporting himself as a bus boy, waiter, even mowing lawns and digging ditches) and was inducted into the U.S. .\rmy before he became a citizen. Natural­ized during basic training at Keesler Field, he entered officer training and was assigned as a lieutenant to Air Force intelligence. His knowledge of the Far East led to being stationed in the China-Burma-India theater. 


Based in Kunming, at the China end of the Burma Road, he met and married a lovely refugee from Shanghai in 1944. A major at \var's end, he became aide and interpreter for Gen. George C. Marshall on his mission to negotiate a coalition govern­ment in China. 
In 1947 John became an accountant for Stanvac in Shanghai. When the city fell to the Communists in 1949, he stayed on to protect the Stanvac interests. .After the outbreak of the Korean conflict it became impossible to do business in China, and John was forced to liquidate. Transferretl to Hong Kong in 1953, he became accounting manager in 1956. Last year he was named general sales manager for Mobilpet in Hong Kong. 
Now, as general manager, John has ac­cepted the formidable challenge of the teem­ing crown colony, quadrupled in size in 20 years, with mainland refugees swelling the population to nearly four million in less than 400 square miles. Mobil's 24 stations supply thousands of gallons of fuel to the island's 60,000 land vehicles, countless fishing craft in the harbor, and the lamps and stoves of its citizens. 
1943 
Jack \^^ggiiu 5125 Br^fgs Avenue La Crescenta, Calif. 
From the Alumni Office: 
BILL MIDDENDORF sent a note to announce the birth of his newest daughter, **Julia Marie— 7 lbs. 7 02., bom June 27, 3 A.M. (ouch!). Don't babies ever come any other time but the middle of the night? Score now reads: Girls, 8 for St. Mary's—Boys, 3 for N.D." 
The directors of Webh Panel Company of Long-view, Wash., and San Francisco recently announced the election of JAMES J. BYRNE as vice-president. Jim, a founding director of the company, is presi^ dent of Byrne Plywood Co. of Royal Oak, Mich., a former Detroit Club president and member (*59­'61) of the national Alumni Board. 
T^vo priests of the Class made academic news. FR. TO.M ENGLETON, C.S.C. was appointed to the faculty of Notre Dame's sophomore year program at Innsbruck, Austria. HcMl be there for two yean. And FR. BOB PELTON, C.S.C., head of the the­ology* dept., is in Spain on a postdoctoral research fellowship from the Spanish government. 
1944 
George BariscOlo, Jr. 416 Burlington Ave. Bradley Beach, N, J. 
Nfark your calendar and reserve the weekend of June 12-13-14 next, and make definite plans now to be present and accounted for at our 20th Re­union! Class President JOHN LYNCH has issued a call for volunteers to help prepare for what augurs to be "the greatest" reunion yet. Contact John at 13 Brookvale Road, Framingham, Mass., and, of course, with Christmas card writing time approach­ing, it's an CTCellent opportunity to encourage your old buddies to plan to meet you at N.D. ne.^t June. 
News crossing your Secy's desk since our last column . . . Regional Vice-Prcxy FR.ANK STUMPF checking in from Richmond, Va., reports LEO BURKE operating his own furniture retail store in Richmond, and currently president of the local NJD. Club. . . . DR. TOM CONATY, Leo's former roommate, married StumpFs sister, and is a practicing obstetrician in Huntington, West Va. . . . DONNELL V. DAVIS, on his way through Richmond, breakfasted with Frank and reported he's with J. C. Penney Co. . . . Floy and JIM MEAG­HER, on a camping tour of Virginia and Washing­ton last summer, pitched tents In the Stumpf back yard (Jim has eight daughters and one son and u'as traveling with six of the children). Meagher is now President of Stratton and Terstegge in Louis­ville, and reported on a recent \islt with JOE VAN DYKE in Kansas City where Joe is still operating the Home Rug and Curtain Cleaning Co. . . . SAM ^VING was another visitor to Richmond on his way to Baltimore from Dallas to visit his fiaugh­tcr, ^vho recently entered a convent in Maryland. .. . As for "old" FRANK STUMPF himself, he reports the family brick manufacturing business was sold last year and he's enjoying a short retirement. Frank will be on hand for our reunion next June and urges the likes of DICK DOERMER, LEO L.ARDI, JACK WATTERS, ORLANDO BONI­CELLI, JOHN HICKEY, SAM WING, JOE VAN DYKE, and all the gang to "make up their minds now that they are going." 
KEN BROWN has checked la from Dallas where he Is in his third year as head of the Spanish de­partment at St. Mark's School of Texas, and has been spending summers witli his wife and fotur chil­dren in Mexico, operating a summer school for Hispanic studies. Ken reports seeing BILL SCHEUCH a few years ago In Philadelphia, and hearing from CESAR MUNECAS, ex-Cuban, now living in Santurce, Puerto Rico. 
"BUZZ" HASSETT is now Assistant General Manager of WGHP-TV in Greensboro, North Caro­lina. "Buzz" will definitely be on hand for onr 20th. 
JACK WOELFLE also will be among the re­unlonites. Jack is now in Pottstown, Pennsylvania, and is support manager for the Military Systems Division of Burroughs Corporation in PaoU, and reports a vnsit with JOHN BOYLE and family who were passing through Paoli on a tr^ to South Bend recently. 
From the Alumni Office: Judge WILLIAM D. LAWLESS, Supreme Court of the State of New York, has been appointed a 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
member of the X.D. Lau- School Advisor>- Council. Judge Lawless presides over the Court's Eighth Judicial District in Buffalo. ALBERT P. McGUIRE, genera] manager, American Chemical Corp., Calif., has been elected vice-prestdcnt. .Atly. JOSEPH 
F. GALL, former FBI agent who now has a lau* office in Nashua and also ser\*es as a special asst. to the state atty. general, is a member of the faculty of the St. Ansclm College Law Enforcement Insti­tute. 
RICARDO C. LEON', Mexico City, was recently made Knight of tlic Holy Sepulchre- His wife's name is **Tita'' and his children are Tom, 12: Mike, 10; Anthony, 9; Patricia, 6; "Malu," 3 and Albert, 1. 
1945 
Frank M. linchan 29 Burr Drive Dalton, Massachusetts 
A. L. ANDERSEN, JR., reports in from Ault, Colo., where he owns and operates a farm. He and jcan have one son, Michael. 
JIM ANDREWS specializes in dcrmatoIog\- in Charlottesnllc, Va. He received his M.D. from Micliigan in M9. Jim and Pat have one son. 
MIT has on its staff R.\Y B.\DDOUR, who is professor of chemical engineering. Ray received his master's and doctorate from MIT. TIic Baddours live in Belmont, Mass., and have three ctiildren. 
One of the leading reasons for N.D. lo play so regularly in Philadelphia is our own JIM BERS­BACH. He is convention manager for the Phila­delphia Convention and Visitors Bureaus. Jim and Sallv have five children. 
Former Bengal Boutcr FATHER BILL BEVING­TON teaclies at Catholic High School for Boj-s at Memphis, Tenn. Father Bill lias his B.S. in aero engineering from X. D. and a master's in education from George Pcabody College for Teachers. I'll bet there's no fooling around in his classes. 
Sunizonc Valley, Pcarce, Arizona, finds WARREN CARTIER resident sales manager for Tucson Realty and Trust Company. Two bo>*s make up ^Varren's and Barbara's family. 
•An active Republican in Pcnns\-lvania is JULES CATTIE , an insurance represcnlalivt for PNf.A casualty insurance company. Jules is also active in Catholic War Vets, K. of C . Lions, etc., in Blue Bell. Pa. Joan and Jules have five children —tlirec girls and two bovs. 
FATHER JOHN CONNELLY is now stationed at Churcli of Our Lady of Good Counsel, 42 West Main Strtret, Morristown. N. J­
MARK CRONIN is still holding forth In Chicago, where he is sccretarv* of the Knickerbocker Roofing and Paving Company. Mark is a board member of the Madonna Center Settlement House and stxro tary of the South Side Catholic Men's Club. Jean and Mark have three girls and one boy. 
FRANK CULHANE also reports in from the IVindy City, where he is treasurer of the Formfit Company. Frank has his LL.B. from N.D. Law School and scr\Td as treasurer of the \illage of Park Forest in the late '50"s, Frank and Mar>* have three girls and two box's. 
FATHER DAN CURTIN, C.S.C., is master of novices at the Sacred Heart No\-itiate of the Holy Cross Fathers at Jordan, Minn. Father Dan has his master's from Catholic University and has had special studies in spiritual theology- at International College of Dbcalced Carmelites in Rome. 
San Rogue Parish, Santiago, Chile, has for its pastor FATHER CHARLES DELANEY, CS.C. 
JOHN FENA is completing his fifth year as a member of the Minnesota Legislature. He is also senior partner in the law firm, Fena & Nasi, in Hibbing, Minn. Kathleen and John have eight children. 
VERN FROST is president of the Frost Engi­neering Service Company of Los .Angeles and San Francisco. Eileen, John and one son make their home at 5916 S. Kings Road, Los .Angeles. 
FRED GOEBELER is a It. col. and a management analyst in tlie Office of the Surgeon General. De­partment of the Army. Fred and Xlrginia live in Bo\We. Mar\-land and have four bovs and a girl. 
BROTHER DONAN JOHNROE, CS.C , is head of the foreign language department at Archbishop Hoban High School tn':Akron, Ohio. 
SISTER M. SCHOLASTICA, CS.C , teaches at Bishop Hall Institute, . Hammond, Indiana. We have received word that anlilher classmate has been called to his eternal reward, LAWRENCE HACK­ETT. Larry died of a heart attack on July 15 in Aliddletown, O. He is survived by his wife, Joyce, two sons and four daughters. To Joyce and the family the heartfelt sympathy of the class and 
TOM CURRIGAN '41 (right) took his oath as new mayor of Denver in an all-
N.D. ceremony in July. Swearing him in is Hon. Albert T. Frantz '29, chief justice of the Colorado Supreme Court and the Denver Notre Dame Club's Man of the Year for 1963. John Dec '42 is manager of parks ^'ith the new administration. (Denver Post Photo) 
the remembrance of Larry in our prayers— may he rest in peace. 
To Betty and AL LESMEZ our heartiest congratu­lations on the arrii'al of a daughter, Susan Gayle, on .August 14. Tliis makes a one-and-onc family for them. 
This will be the last column that your secretar>' will write in *'Kcnncdyland," for I have been trans­ferred by General Electric to their Johnson City, 
N. Y. plant where I tvill be Manager—Security, Plant Protection and Safety. So off lo "Happyland.'* 
To our following classmates and their lovely wives, we extend the heartiest congratulations of the class on their attaining 15 years of wedded bliss during '63 and extend our warmest wishes for continued happiness: A. L. ANDERSEN, DAVE CO.N'DON, 
J. ED\VARD FAUST, JOE HAGGAR, JACK KEARNEY, JACK LaBONTE, DR. BILL ROSA­NELLI, HARRY RYAN, TED RYAN, PAT SUTHERLAND, BILL QUINN, DR. FRANK M.ARTIN, HARRY .MacLAUGHLIN, and RAY KOPITUK. 
DENVER — Receiving congratulations from Denver's new team of Irish public servants 
From the Alumni Office: 
FR. RICHARD TIMM, CS.C. is a moderator for the annual Yearbook of Notre Dame College in Dacca, East Pakistan. The name of the book? . . . naturajly, "Blue and Gold." There was a large write-up in the Dacca English daily in June on research work with the parasites of jute, the leading cash crop of Pakistan, that Father Tlmm is doing. 
FR. ROBERT PELTON, CS.C. has started a graduate program in theology at N.D. for the lay person. Father Pclton holds a Doctor of Sacred Theology degree from Gregorian University in Rome and is now on leave of absence in Spain for postdoctoral research. 
ALVARO LESMEZ has been appointed .Advertis­ing and Sales Promotion Mgr. of Vacuum-Electronics Corp., PlainWcw, N. Y. and has complete respon­sibility for advertising, sales promotion, technical publications, shows and exhibits, public relations, and related activities. Al and his wife (Betty) and four-year-old (Arthur) received a bundle in August from the stork, dropped on their house In Garden City named Susan Gayle. 
Bishop MARK G. McGR.ATH, CS.C '45, LL.p. '63, had a long article in Jubilee magazine on Latin American reforms to raise the standard of living there. 
1946 
Peter P. Rlcbiiulu 6 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Connecticut 
1947 
Jack Miles 3218 Bentley Lane South Bend, Indiana 
REQUIEM FOR NO. 17 
It is not yet 17 years since we graduated, and already wc have lost the 17tli of our number to untimely death: PHIL DELINCKE died Aug. 1. according to word received here from his %vidow, Dot. 
A polio victim in the early '30's, Phil really made the most of Iiis scdentar\' existence by travelling to and from his engineering work each day, holding down a few on-tlic-sidc chores for extra income, and still finding the time to take additional studies to keep abreast of changing developments. 
He loved Notre Dame and one of his great regrets was his inability to return for a visit in the inter­vening years. He was with us in spirit, tliough, during our 1962 reunion since it was he who named our mascot ThorNDuck. And he treasured tlie black-and-gold N.D. drinking mug wc sent him as prize, along with the revised edition of RICHARD SULLIVAN'S Notre Dame. 
In your name I have enrolled him in the Associa­

 Father T. J. O'Donnell C.S.C.,  includes: (L-r.) Hon. Tom Currigan 
'41, the new mayor; John Dec *52, manager of pariis and recreation; and John Moran Jr. '52, newly appointed state representative from the Mile-High City. 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus. Year End, 1963 
lion of tlic Providential Proposal at Our Lady of 
Fatima Retreat House on campus; it assures him 
remembrance in Masses 'till the end of time. And 
in your name I have expressed our keen sense of 
sorrow to Dot and tlicir tccnagcd daughter, Sharon. 
In case you tend to forget our departed class­
mates, here they arc: PETER CASTELLI, WIL­
LIAM DELANEY, WILLIAM DOUGHERTY, 
JOHN DUCATO. JOHN FORSTER, HERBERT 
FRIEND, NOEL GOTTESMAN, CLARE LESER, 
RAYMOND O'CONNELL, JR., FRANK PETERS, 
WILLIAM PFISTER. GEORGE SCHOTT, RUS­
SELL UNDERWOOD, ROBERT VON HOENE, 
LEONARD WALL, and REV. EDWARD WIL­
LIAMS. 
Please pray for ihcm, and if you care to send 
a dollar or so to add to our Mass fund Til send 
you a prayer card with their names imprinted. 
GLEANI.VGS. . . 
DON FISHER, president of the Ask Mr. Foster 
travel ser\'ice, is again operating a Notre Dame 
Foundation European pilgrimage, with departure 
from New York scheduled for April 17 and return 
May 10. It will follow the route similar to that 
taken by the Crusaders years ago: Atliens. Rhodes, 
Cairo, Luxor, Beirut, Jerusalem, Tel x\viv, Rome, 
and Lisbon. 
One of our regular tourists, S.\M ADELO, post­
cards from London "Just winding up an Eastern 
Hemisphere trip. Met a fellow Notre Damer here 
last evening . . . PAT COSTELLO . , . former 
student in one of my Spanish clxsses. He is a 
fellow barrister from Grccnsburg, Pa." Sam also 
passes along a copy of one of his organization's 
publications in which was reproduced a letter to 
him from WALTER L.-\NGFORD, now back on the 
faculty after two years* directing a Peace Corps 
projfct in Chile. Walter reported a school in south 
Chile built with funds from Kendavis Industries "is 
operating at full blast and at full capacitv." 
F.ATHER ARTHUR HARVEY. C.S.C., director 
of the University Theater, was recently named na­
tional moderator of Alpha Gamma Omega, honorar>' 
fraternity of the National Catholic Theater Con­
ference, and his assistant, FRED SYBERG, first vice-
chairman. 
A "Well Done!'* to Barbara and JLM .MURPHY 
on the arrival Oct. 4 of their fourth son and fifth 
child: Daniel Robert, a sturdy 9 lb. II oz. at 
weigh-in. 
JOHN MOELLER lias quit Quito, Ecuador, for 
Oak Park, III. What brings you north, Juan? 
And the Na\y seems to be cfTectlng its transfers wholesale: COM.MANDER BUCK HEREFORD has been moved to MedianIcsburg. Pa.; COM.MANDER JOE KOSNIK to Jacksonville. Fla.; and LT.­COM.\L\NDER BILL BARRY to the U. S. Navy Mission in Valparaiso, Chile. 
SUPPORT THE MOOSE 
.•\s vou probably know bv this time, our own ELMER ".MOOSE" MATTHEWS has been nomi­nated for director of the Alumni .-VsKocIation and We urge your unanlnioiis support of bis bid for the post. No '47-er has ever ser\"ed on the board and wc have an opportunity to help one of our own represent us among the policy makers of the alumni organization. 
As this IS written, the Moose is running a hard race for state senator in his native Jersey; I hope wc can report success for him in both campaigns in our next Issue. 
LETTERS. . . 

From an old friend whom many of you will re­member comes word about the FRANK McCt\NN (ex- '58) family of Syracuse, N. Y. Tlie distaff half of the coupling Is the former Rose Kunkic, who worked In the administration ofhces during our tour of duty. 
She and Frank have five active offspring: (left to right) Marx-, Mark, Martin, John, and Matthew. .And she confides: *'You know, I'm getting terribly 
WILLIAM G. MAHONEY, '47 Big City Beat for RFE Bureau Chief 
Bill Mahoney, shown above as chief of Radio Free Europe's Berlin news bureau, taping intcr\'icws at the Berlin "wall of shame" for broadcast behind the Iron Cur­tain, was recently named to head the or­ganization's bureau in Vienna, effective November 15. 

A native of Millbrook, New York, Bill joined the private, anti-Communist radio network in its Munich headquarters in July, 1962. Before moving to the Berlin post last June, he covered NATO conferences in Paris and later ser\-cd in the RFE Rome bureau. Like his namesake in the Class of '38 who is U.S. ambassador to Ghana, Bill seems to thrive on travel. Prior news ser\-ice, before joining RFE, includes reporting work on daily papers in Binghamton, Schenec­tady and Buffalo: bureau chief in the Munich and Frankfurt bureaus of Stars & Stripes; and reporter for UPI and the Paris edition of the New York Times. 
Since graduation from Notre Dame, he has also studied at the University of Lau­sanne, Switzerland. Mrs. Mahoney is the former Elizabeth Meyer of Munich, Ger­many. 
The Berlin and Vienna news bureaus are part of Radio Free Europe's news-gathering network, which includes other bureaus in London, Paris, Stockholm, Brussels, Bonn. .Athens and Rome as well as in New York City and Washington, D.C. 
RFE programs are on the air 18 hours a day to Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, and five hours daily to Rumania and Bul­garia. Total news input from all sources handled by the central newsroom in Munich averages more than a million words a day. 
homesick for South Bend and Notre Dame! It happens cvcr>' fall when the leaves turn and the bands tunc up and the football teams begin their practice. .. . Some weekend I'm going to . . . come back just to visit the Grotto and some special friends and walk a few streets, . ." You'll be welcome, Rosie. 
Few of us arc, or have been, closer to the Commu­nist menace than LUIS BELTRANENA in Guate­mala; as general manager of his country's National Coffee Assn., be ts coffee ambassador-at-large and qualified to comment on the broad picture in Latin .\merica. 
He writes of the March coup which ended the fi\'e­yrar term of President Miguel Ydigoras Fuentes: ^^It was no surprise to me, ' although from my observations during the Costa Rica Conference of Presidents I had gathered the impression he could last at least until the elections scheduled for No­vember. I had assumed, liowe\*er, that the meet­ing of Presidents should ha\'e Included a number of secret agreements for the following purposes; 
a) effective measures to stop Communist infiltration in Central America; b) some concerted, courageous action to oust the Reds from Cuba and eliminate altogether their influence in this hemisphere; c) effec­tive measures to adjust the price structure of raw materials and agricultural products in order to give a real boost to our economics, largely affected by the decline in coffee prices and the increase in the cost of Bnisbed products we must buy. In this situation you may find more reasons for the eco­nomic slump in Latin America rather than in any other area." 
He sizes up Ydigoras: "His administration was characterized by disorder, leniency toward internal Communism while he boasted of his anti-Commu­nism for foreign consumption, disrespect for author­ity, and overall a lack of seriousness and consistency in the resolution of the vital problems of govern­ment. On the other hand, he proved to be the great promoter of the Central .American market . . . folksy and foxy . . . courageous beyond be­lief, a good family man, and a shrewd businessman who apparently took enough money in percentages to make your Washington five percenters look like apprentices. In short, I personally think Ydigoras was the greatest thing that ever could happen to a Graustarkian country*. . ." though the coup had more popular support than any election for **any election under him would have ended in civil strife and a lot of bloodshed. . ." 
"Communism Is one thing and poverty and misery* another. The latter must be fought as a matter of principle, as Christians by all possible means, regardless of the former, which is a political con­spiracy- directed from outside this hemisphere. .-\1I worthy projects to raise the standard of living of our people should be given a tr>* and wc are endeavoring to further several, seriously planned; and for that wc need honest administrations. The old criteria of dictatorship to topple Latin-American governments should be disposed of, and the alliance should tr>* to work with the best people available, with the people who have the knowledge and train­ing and not to fight the ablest people of Latin .America as If they still were feudal lords or cattle and coffee barons. 
**Thc majority of the useful young people of Latin Aincrica are scions of the families who have contributed to the creation of wealth and are the ones who have the education; they arc the ones who know how to work effectively .. . the e.\ccu­tives, the potential organrzers. Abo, you have to take into consideration the riotous emerging middle class and get the best out of It. Other^vlsc. take the young Indian kids, ship them in droves to school abroad and get rid of the wealthy classes, exactly as Castro did; and then. In another hundred years, you may have a new or different Latin America. 
*'I shall keep you posted about anything im­portant." Thanks so much, Liils. 
TR.\XS!TION TIME 

;\s the new year gels ready to take over for a spent '63, let us take stock of what wc have done and what we should do. Let us resolve to work alfirmativcly and tirelessly for freedom and justice. May your Christmas be holy, your '6i happy. 
From the Alumni Office: JOSEPH O. EMOND, former administrator at St. Joseph's Hospital, Vancouver, Wash., has been appointed director of personnel serv*Ices at Spohn Hospital, Corpus Christi. Joe and his wife are living at 934 Brawner with their five daughters and a son. 
After four years in Honolulu, JOSEPH FINNEY, M.D., Ph.D. and a '47 grad. student, has moved with his wife and four children to 1010 Claiborne \Vay, Lexington, Ky. In April he lectured at the 
U. of Indonesia In Djakarta, and In May before the Philippine Psychological Assn. and the Group for Advancement of Psychiatry In the Philippines. He is now an assoc. prof, of psychiatry at the U. of Kentucky. 
Last but not least, your Class Secretary, JACK MILES is still 'associate editor of the Boating In­dustry Daily, Conover-Mast Publishers, and has an article in a recent Catholic 'Boy on the I9t3 World Series, *'TIic screwiest series ever** according to 
Jack. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
1948 
Gcoi^c Kccnan 10 Rivcrvicw Dr., West Upper Montdair, New Jersey 
(Thanks to retiring Class Scribe JOHN PAUL DEFANT and introdudng the Bard of Clifton, GEORGE KEENAN*, his duly circled successor. Ed.) 
FIFTEENTH YEAR REUNION REGISTRANTS: (in case you missed 'em last time) John Abens, Paul Adcrman, Jack Amberg, Burt Apker, Ed Ayh^-ard, Ed Bailee-, Tom Brogan, Larry-Carr, Paul Cartivright, Jim Corcoran, Leo Costello, Jim Costa, Zygmont Pierre Czarobski, Gene Dean, John DIGann, Hank DiGirolamo, Jim Donoghue, John Doylc, Russ Farrcll, Jim Fcrslc!, Joe Flood, Lou Gasper, Bob Hartmann, Gerry Hekkcr, Tom Higgins, Bart Johnson, George Keenan, Neil Kelly, George Kennard, Ben Kocbcl, Lear>' Krcissl, Jim Lcduith, John ^fcCormick, Shaun McDcrmott, Bob Murphy, Bob Ninncman, Joe O'Toolc, John Patter­son, Joe Quill, Ed Recker, Jack Regan, Frank Romeo, Larry Ryan, Jerry Sarb, Ev Schlcck, Bob Rolwing, Lee ShJpp, Frank Sicra\*-ski, Dick Stack, Hal Tchan, Dave Thornton, Caspar Urban, Al Ward, Dave Warner, Joe Wilcox, John Wright, Bill Bonwich, Jack Cassidy, Jack Coonc\-, Tom CHfTord, Tom Look, Joe Lynch, Bob Moran, Bob Satti, Joe Kennedy, Jim Mahoney, Lou Singer, Bill Summers, Dale Winnie, John Webel, Larrj- Woods, Jim Styers, George Tobin and John Laugliltn. Ail the above had a terrific time at the 15th Re­union of the Class of 1948 and our thanks go out to BILL BON^MCH, who was tlic chairman on Campus and who did sucli an outstanding job in arranging for our appetite and comfort. We hope that we have not omitted anyone who may have told his better half that he was reunion bound and now his name is conspicuous by its absence. It could have happened, you know, that a name was missed, and we'll confirm attendance if necessary. Tlic Class of 1948, which was one of the largest graduating classes in this era, was ver>' poorly represented at this reunion. Our attendance was outnumbered by all reunion classes except the 33th and 50tli Reunion groups. We had about 7J % of our class on hand and we missed everyone who was not there because they missed a good weekend of fellowship. A Reunion Weekend is something that all the Class should do all they can to attend. Once they do, they will look forward to each such gathering. A wonderful way to reminisce about the old days, talk about today and think about the future! All as informal as can be! You will note that as of now you have a new Class Secretary, At the reunion word was received from JOHN DEFANT that he was unable to con­tinue in this position because of many demands made upon his time for personal and business reasons. It was wttli regret that wc heard this, because John had done a very* good Job in a vcr>* difficult posi­tion. It is not easy to have news of interest to the class if news is not forthcoming, and a column like this is as successful as the members of the class want it to be, that is, by funneling information in for publication. Recalling how much you personally have submitted in the last 15 years will give you an idea of how mudt information is obtainable. TTie April I960 Newsletter was a vcr>' comprehensive work that John did and was most commendable. This did not receive 1009£ cooperation, but ever>'onc who received it certainly must have read every bit of it. Wc look for%vard to your help in keeping this column interesting. Don't be afraid to blow your own horn, because that is the only way wc know what you arc doing so wc can tell the others. 
It might be interesting to tell you how I got this Class Secretary* hot scat, those of you who did not attend the reunion. Well, before the Alumni Dinner at the North Dining Hall, word leaked out that John was resigning. A few representatives of the Class from the East met in the smoke-filled corridors of Howard Hall, and that caucus set up the nomination of yours truly, the seconding of the nomination and the closing of the nominations. Tlic chairman, DR. BILL BONWICH, was in the delega­tion's hip pocket and was all set up to ramrod the election through. At the meeting, when the an­nouncement was made of the need to replace your Class Secrcury, a delegation led by LARRY RYAN, which was not au-are of the setup, placed the name of **JOE ^VILCOX" in nomination for the position. This seemed like a phoney name, and when it was requested that **thc real Joe Wilcox stand up"— he could not be found. This paved the way for the swinging of the convention to the Keenan Band­wagon. It was a little nip-and-tuck as some out­spoken insurgents tried to seize the floor, but thc>­were subdued by the Sergeants-at-Arms led by HANK DiGIROLAMO, RUSS FARRELL, BRUIS. ER KENNARD, TO.M HIGGINS, BUNKY RE­GAN, etc 
\Ve are pleased to report that a great lime was had by all and that in the past 15 years the cam­pus as we knew it has undergone some real changes. It is prettier than ever and to really sec It would lake the belter part of a day. Tlie new Memorial Library' is rising into the clouds, and for the U'ant of a better description it was commonly referred to as "the grain ele\'alor with an air conditioner on top." Of course, the Class of 1948 is not much of a judge of libraries, because when it came time for our Class picture to be taken on tlie steps of the old librarj-, only 51 were on hand. The rest of the group did not know where the Librar\' was, since they were not ever required to take departmental hislor>> exams and stand in line to get a copy of one of the required readings. The same group had no trouble finding the Jolly Spot, Sweeney's Shamrock, Indiana Cafe, etc. Wc also found too that the Dining Hall has maintained its reputation and can still do to roast beef what no other dining establish­ment would ever do—the one area in which change has not taken place in 15 years. 
The gross tonnage of the Class reunionitcs is about par witli other years. Some of the real heavy­weights were missed, fellows Hkc HERB COLEMAN, TONY MISTRETTA, DICK ELLIOTT. FRANK DEBITETTO, etc. One member of the class who really carries a lot of weight these days is GENE DE.AN. He started at N.D. as a 90 lb. weakling who was ashamed to wear g\-m shorts and then took the course and is now a trim 240. Gene is manager of labor relations with the American Cyanamid Company. In this same category but eligible for the award as the most improved is NEIL KELLY-
Conspicuous by their absence at our class reunions have been our class officers. L.\RRY RY.AN has been on hand and, to make his presence known, ran oJI with about all the golf honors in the Alum­ni Tournament. Larry had the longest drive of 264 yards and the low gross. Our Class Treasurer, GEORGE BURNS, writes that he is in Paris at least until 1964. Anyone wanting to reach him: Ins address is 18 Avenue Mozart, Paris, 16, France. Also missed have been most of our award-winning classmates—the outstanding men of the class. Wc hope that for our 20th Reunion we will have more on hand. 
TIic activities of tlie days and evenings were- en­livened by one of tlic most loved men of our class ZYGMONT PIERRE CZAROBSKI. Since leanng N.D, Zig has covered a lot of ground and still does. He has seriously taken up Karate and, attired in his ceremonial robes, he demonstrated many of the techniques of the ancient art. In addition to ability in this art he has also become an Honorary Polish Buddhist Monk. Zig told us many stories of the great football era that he was associated with— stories previously untold which gave the insight as to what went on in the locker room before the crucial games and bet^veen the halves: his experiences after his last gxmie against Southern California; his All-Ziggy, All-American football teams of Notre Dame '42 to '48. Zig had many a tear>*-cycd listener as he told these stories of the past with emotion (they came from his "pectoral cavity") and Zig style. 

LARRY TURNER brought along with him two very handsome aspiring Notre Damers, his two boys, Fred and Larry III. CORNY STYERS had his boy with him, and Corny proved he could still put in good time in the two mile run. He ran all the way from the North Dining Hall to Howard to get his car and ferry the cold cuts back, and this was after dinner. Also able to cover a lot of ground in little time is DICK STACK^ who came to the reunion in his own Bccchcraft airplane. Dick is in the insurance business in Appteton, Wis. Coming a long distance and taking longer to do it but also an insurance man is GEORGE KENNARD, now residing in Miami. LEO COSTELLO and JACK "BUNKY" REGAN drove out from New Jersey together. Leo is the proud father of three boys and four girls. In his spare time he Is vice-president of the Lakeview Savings and Loan Association in Paterson, N. J. "Bunky" is a production man­ager for McGregor Sportswear. 
JIM LEDWITH left the FBI and Is now selling Catholic literature to parochial schools. In these days it would be pretty tough selling it to the public schools, and Jim seems quite happy dealing will) ihc good Sisters instead of chasing the law­breakers. I*ARRY WOODS is now in his own busi­ness in New Britain, Conn., and another classmate from Connecticut of Bengal Bout fame, BOB SATTI from New London, looks as trim as when he was tossing the leather around. 
Our great football era was represented by CASPAR URBAN, ZIGGIE CZAROBSKI and GEORGE TOBIN. Not a member of any of the great ND teams, but showing form that surely could have been used, \vas JOHN PATTERSON. He gave an example of a flying wedge the likes of whicli hasn't been seen at ND in many a year and this was after a full evening and a tough dav. 
JACK COONEY and JOE OTOOLE had head­quarters in their room for the all night revelry'. There are reunion activities by day and night, and it is alwaj-s neccssar>' to have someone keep it going in the off hours. Tlie burden on Jack and Joe was extremely hard this year because they were without their capable cohorts, PAUL HUSSAR and BEN SHEERAN. Last minute business matters kept this committee from completing its entire program, but it was successful in cver>' effort. The absence of TOM HERBERT left us without a soloist to lead our choral group. 
Acknowledging but unable to attend the Reunion were DAN GENTILE, who is with RCA in Cali­fornia, and LT. CMDR. M. J. DEUTCH who is at the Naval Supply Center at Pearl Harbor. Also unable to attend but wishing they could be on hand 
MANSFIELD —On Universal Notre Dame N^ t (from left) icdring President Dick Walter '41 presented a commemorative scroll toN D Man of the Year. Pete Moritz '43j while Father Joseph Barry CIS.C '29 was the featmred speafo. 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End, 1963 
were AARON SEAMSTER, who is dean of pure and 
applied sciences at Northeast State College, Afonroe, 
La., and LOU TWARDZIK who is in the depart­
ment of resource development at Michigan State 
University. Unable to attend because of distance 
and good cause was REV. F. J. BUCKLEY, S.J. 
%vho is at the Gregorian University finishing a 
doctorate in theoIog>*. He sends his best regards to 
all classmates and can be reached at Via del Semi­
nario 120, Rome. 
Your Secrctar>* is now with Westinghousc Electric International Co., in the Pan Am. Building in New York City. Television-Radio-Phonographs for the world markets are now my line. I have been in this business since leaving ND and this is my lOth year with Westinghousc. Export is something entirely new and ver>- interesting. Prior to this I was with RCA and worked with DAN GENTILE out Iowa way. 
Your reunion weekend broke up with many plans 
and ideas for our 20lh get-together. Perhaps the 
I5th is an off year, but the 20th should be a big 
one. We have five years to plan it and, with 
the good Lord willing, wc want to see as many on 
hand as can possibly make it. Anyone who has taken 
upon himself a reunion weekend has everj-lhing good 
to say about it. Its a wonderful time, and for $20 
or so, its cheaper than staying home. It is not a 
retreat but a chance to get together with those you 
don't see often but whom you arc glad to see. We'll 
be writing more about this as we go on, but the 
5-ycar repeats come around fast so we like to keep 
it in mind. Meanwhile, let me hear from you— 
about you and what else is new. Tlicrc were a lot 
of beefs about the coverage of the Class of M8. 
but you members of the Class arc what wc have to 
talk and write about—it's up to you too. 
From the Alumni Office: 
THO.M.\S J. SULLIVAN has been chctcd presi­dent and board chairman of Systems Englnrcring Laboratories, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He is a member of the Florida, Federal, and American Bar .\ssociations. DR. ROBERT F. DUFFEY has been appointed director of the Counseling and Testing Center at Drake U. and will have faculty rank as an asst. prof, of psychology* in the college of liberal arts. Bob received an ^L\ in speech correction at the U. of Wisconsin and a Ph.D. in speech patholog\' at Purdue, and he had been working for the VA as a clinical psychologist. He Is married and has five children. 
JOHN W. O'BRIEN is now vice-president of Ferron Davis, O'Brien & Co.. South Bend invest­ment advisor>- and broker-dealer firm. P.\TRICK 
J. MULVIHILL, project mgr. of management de­velopment at IBM's Data Systems Divison plant at Kingston, N. Y., has received an MA in psychology from the U. of Omaha. Pat and Marjorie have 7 cliildren now: Kathcrinc, 12; Michael, 10; David, 8; John. 7; Tom, 5; Mar\". 4; and Brian, 4 mos. NORBERT E. SMITH JR. lias moved from Los Angeles to 730 E. 73rd Street, Indianapolis 40. 
1949 
John Walker 
Wayne, Illmois 
From the Alumni Office: JAMES H. HOWARD has received his MA in journalism from the Southern Illinois U. REV. GEORGE BERNARD KASHMER received his MA from DcPauI U. REV. LEO.VARD N. B.\N.\S, C.S.C, is now the head of the dept. of classics here at N.D. He has an MA from Princeton U. and has been teaching here since '60. FRANK B. SULLIVAN, general agent for Am. United Life Ins. Co. in South Bend, represented the life insurance industry when he addressed the annual meeting .of the American Institute of CPA's. He is a newly elected member of the executive com­mittee of the Million Dollar Round Table of the National Assn. of Life Underwriters, also chairman of the board of editors of the C. L. U. Journal. ANTON STERKER, JR. is now the project engi­neer for Ingalls'Shepard Div. of Wyman-Gordon Co., one of the country's largest producers of crank­shaft forgings. JOHN A. HOLLOWAY is an asso­ciate development scientist at B. F. Goodrich Chem­ical Co.'s Development Center in Avon Lake, Ohio, working with the polyurethane materials group. John and his family are living in Lorain, Ohio. ROBERT P. HAYES, representative for the Conn. Mutual Life Ins. Co., is now associated with the DeWitt Jones Agency in Denver. Bob, his wife, and three children are living in Littleton, Colo. 
CHARLES V. KREBS, an aeronautical engineer with Research Analysis Corp., left in July for South-
CHARLES J. KALER, JR., '49 Texan, Twice Knighted, Now State Deputy 
It has been a busy year in a busy decade for Charles Kaler. Recently named to the top office in the Texas Knights of Columbus, he got his first glimpse of the campus after 11 years in late August, on his return to Corpus Christ! from representing his state at the K. of C. Supreme Convention in Milwaukee. 
Last summer he was also selected as com­mencement speaker at Corpus Christi .Acad­emy, where he had been salutatorian of the Class of 1943. After W.W. II Na\T ser\'icc he was inducted in the Notre Dame K. of 
C. Council before taking his B.S. curii laude in Commerce. In 1950 he joined Carroll Jones Company, a Corpus Christi mortgage banking firm, and a year later married Martha Merritt. 
.•\s on the campus, leadership in business and lay religious activity seemed to go hand in hand. Now senior vice-president of Car­roll Jones, in 1960 Pope John XXIII ac­knowledged his work for the Church by con­ferring the title K.S.G.—knighthood in the Order of St. Gregory the Great. 
Papal recognition followed such achieve­ments as: encouraging vocations as a charter member and president of the Serra Club of Corpus Christi; ecumenical ser\-icc as chairman of Brotherhood Week and Cath­olic chairman of the Corpus Christi Con­ference of Christians and Jews; philan­thropy as a director of the Incarnate Word of Corpus Christi, a nonprofit foundation; and K. of C. work as Grand Knight of Council 1202, general program chairman of the State Council, district deputy and for two years secretary of the Texas Council. .•\s deputy for Texas, he is also president and board chairman of the R. Conroy Scog­gins Educational Foundation, chartered by the state for charitable activity. 
As Carroll Jones vice-president he is also a partner in a general agency and a real estate investment company. A member of \-arious insurance and mortgage banking associations, he remains an ardent hunter and football fan. 
east Asia with his wife and two children. His newr ofHcc is in Bangkok, Thailand. 
CARLOS CORONA, formerly in personnel with Bendbc, is now director of personnel at Mich. State U., Oakland Branch, Rochester, Mich. EUGENE LADEWSKl, South Bend city councilman, is the new asst. business officer for the South Bend-Mishawaka Campus of Indiana U. 
JOHN C. KRUEGER at last report was in London, England, with Stais and Stripes. 
CARL APONE has a very interesting article "Campus Religion in Depth,*' in the October issue of Catholic Digest. This is his fifth article for the Digest; two of them were on N.D.—the Victory .March, 1M9, and one on FATHER HESBURGH, April, 1962. He taught at St. Mary's from '50 to '53 and has an MA from Boston U. He is music critic and Sunday magazine feature writer for the Pittsburgh Press. 
1950 
Richard F. Hahn 47 Emerson Rd. Glen Rock, New Jersey 
From the Alumni Office: LEONARD V. COSTANTINI received his MA from Ohio State U. in August. CHARLES A. HICK^LANN is now an attorney in the law department of RCA. Pending transfer to Van Nuys, Calif., Chuck, Phyllis and their four children now live in East Xorthport, N. Y. RALPH 

H. WRIGHT has been named an account super­visor with Meldmm & Fe»%'smith, Inc., where he was an account executive prior to his promotion. He came to the advertising field by the journalism route, having worked for a short time as a reporter after leaving N.D. STANLEY J. TSALIKIS, export manager of Skil Corp., Chicago, is residing in Niles, III., with his wife and two sons. ZANE P. TRINKLEY, with the South Bend Tribune since 
N.D. graduation, has been named classified manager. Zane and wife, Jane Frances, have four children. ^^cGann Security Co., \vith which RICRARD D. CLEARY is associated in South Bend has recently merged with Bache & Co., and Dick is now South Bend manager. AL McGi^NN *25 was his former boss. 
FATHER BERNARD D. McCARTHY is now at St. Rose of Lima Church, 3756 Delaware Ave., Buffalo 17, X. Y. BRO. FR.\NCISCO DRURY, 
C.S.C. stopped in to tell us he was on his way to the new St. Patrick's High School, in Monrovia, Liberia, West Africa. 
Congratulations to Indianapolis CYO leader BILL SAH.M for his work in the Glee Club alumni tribute to ProL USSi PEDTKE on "the DeanV* 25th anniversarx- as director. 

FIUNK WALKER, editor of The Analyzer (Beck­man Instruments, Inc. quarterly magazine) said it was a pleasure for him to viotk. with JULIAN PLE/\S.-\NTS '39 in having an article printed about LOBUND. 
1951 

Robert Klingcnberger 3405 Thames Dr. Ft. Wayne, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: Head track and wrestling coach at Wlson Higb, ^Vcst Lawn, Pa., TONY R. DADAMIO and his wife, have a new candidate for the team, their first son, Paul Anthony, bom July 20. Daughters Debra, Rita, Cathy and Rebecca can join the other girls ia the acishborhood now and play with dolls. 
ROBERT J. POL.ACEK, Cleveland district sales manager since '60, has been appointed director of products and plans for Celanese Chemical Co., NYC. PAUL G. STEIN, M.D., is now an instructor in psychiatr>- at Marquette U., Milwaukee. After graduating from St. Louis U. and serving a three-year residency in the psychiatry- dept. of George­town U., he had a year of general practice in Mar­quette, Mich., and three years as medical director of the Marquette, Mich., Branch Prison. ROBERT 
J. MAHONEY is operator and owner of a nursing and con\'aIescent home in Yorkville, ill. 
FATHER JOHN CROSTON. C.S.C., qmckly makes friends in Uganda by packing candy for the children he meets on his safaris. 
REV. THOMAS LEE BILL, C.S.C., received A doctorate of philosophy degree from St. Louis U. last June. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
1952 
Hart7 L. Buch 600 Board of Trade BIdg. Wheeling, W. Va. 
From the Alumni Office: JAMES ETLING, a CPA in Hammond, believes in doubling his figures. Jim and wife Jacqueline had their tliird set of twins Scptenibpr 8. Count­down at their house in ^^unster, Ind.. is now: Barbara and James, 7; Marj' Ann, 6; Thomas, 5; Susanne and Catherine. 2, and now Michael John and Patricia . . . "Mike 'n' Pat,*' according to the proud father. Jim said, "When wc had our first set of twins, wc were surprised because the only history of twins is 'way back on ray mother's side. When wc Iiad our second set, wc %»crc surprised again. Xow, I guess you can say wc greeted the third set with resignation." Jim and BILL S.AHM '50 masterminded the recent Glee Club Reunion in honor of "DE/\N" PEDTKE. 
WILLIAM B. GRAHAM, JR. resigned Iiis position as zone manager of the Procter & Gamble Dist, Co. in Memphis, Tenn., to accept a position as account executive with O. E. Mclntyre. Inc., of XVC. Bill, his wife, and new daughter Mary* Anne arc now living in Flushing, N. Y. 
RAV M. TRITZ, JR. received his MS in business 
management from the University of Colorado this 
past June-
One of the summer co-eds. SR. M. CAROLYX 
HERRMANN, Ph.D. '52, is now President of 
Merohurst College in Erie, Pa. Dr. JOSEPH D. 
LAUFERSWEILER, LL.D., has joined the stafT of 
the University of Dayton's department of biology 
as an asst. prof. 
Chaplain (Capt.) FR. BERNARD P. FOLEY, 
C.S.C. completed tlie Air Force courne for chaplains at Lackland AFB, Tex., and moved over to Kelly AFB; also in Texas. Army Capt. FRAN'CIS K. PRICE, JR. was an honor graduate at the Informa­tion School, Fort Slocum, N. Y., where he received instruction in journalism, public speaking, national and world affairs and radio and television techniques. 
1953 
David A. McEIvaln 
2328 Alexander Terr. 
Homewood, Illinois 
Bouquets are in order for ED McCr\RTHY, who so ably engineered the festivities for our ten-year reunion. I am still at a loss to understand how a couple of bucks per man provided an inexhaust­ible supply of booze and snacks for the cocktail party, but whatever the miracle we're all much in­debted to Ed for his efforts. 
A few of the brethren, heretofore long silent, have been heard from in recent weeks, and we report as follows: JOHN W.ATHEN owns and operates a grain and feed business in Madjsonvillc. Kentucky, numbers six children in his family with an even split of boys and girls. ANDY WALSH is a C.P.A. with Haskins & Sells, and makes his home in New ^lonmouth, N. J., with wife and four. BILL WUETCHER is a dentist in Louisville, Kv. BUZZ WAGNER is director of public relations for Koppers in Pittsburgh. Buzz is married and has three children. DON VAN VOOREX is a physical therapist in Houston and, despite a household of five kids, has time to be a professional bowler. DR. BOB WARNER is a dentist practicing in Hamden. Connecticut. VIC WAGNER, whom I have bad occasion to consult rather frequently, is a regional systems representative with IBM in Chicago. Vic lives in Palatine and has three small girls. 
I recently ran into JIM GALL.AGHER and wc discovered that wc arc now practically neighbors. Jim and his two brothers operate Gallaglier Asphalt in Tlioniton, III., and arc busy building and rc^ building streets and highways in northern Illinois and Indiana. Jim has four children, and unhappily their only son is stricken with acute leukemia and not fstpected to live. I'm sure that our prayers for the little fellow would be most appreciated by Gal and his family. 
Down where the sun shines all the time, JACK WHELAN is assistant to the president of Meekins-Bamman Prestrcssed Concrete Corp. in Miami, and has four children. 0%crscas, DON SENICH is a captain with the U. S. Army Construction Agenc>' in Frankfort, lia\ing earned his MSCE at Iowa State. JOHN WILKERSON is associated with the ^Vilker­

42 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 7963 
son Shoe Company in St. Louis, and has two chil­dren. DICK WEINACHT is associate professor of mathematics at the University of Delaware. JOHN W*OEPPEL is a teacher and coacli of track, as well as assistant football coach at Frankfort Schuyler School in Mohawk, N. Y. PAUL WALSH, one of the few remaining bachelors, is an attomrv with the Department of Justice in Washington. JACK VARNEY earned his law degree from Georgetown in 1956, married and is now in private practice in Syracuse, X. Y. Jack has five children. TOM VANDERBOSCH is chief of contract administration for Bendix Aerospace in South Bend. ROGER ZOELLNER has as his prtmar>' responsibility the care and feeding of his red-headed wife and four red-headed daughters, and when time permits is sales engineer for Trane Co. in Columbus, O. FRANK WOIDAT is a salesman with Pepperell Manufacturing Co. and lives in Elmhurst, III. 
jVmong 60,000 fans at the So. Cal.—X.D, game wc found ourselves scaled near a number of familiar faces. Among them: ED CO.NDON, MARTY WEINER, JERRY O'CONNOR, DAVE McBRIDE, JACK MANNIX, JOE PAGLIARI, CHARLIE STI.^LMING, P.AT MONTROY, D.\N HARDIN, and LOU BASSO. 
Let's hear from you!!! 
From the Alumni Office: WILLI.-VM B. BERRY has joined the Notre Dame department of electrical engineering as an asst. prof. MICHAEL A. PLUNKETT resigned after ser\'ing as Du Quoin, III., city attorney and has joined a law firm in >{arion. Ind. He, his wife Virginia, and children Kathleen, Laura and Dan are now residing at 508 S. Virginian .\ve., ifarion. WILLIAM D. SANTORO, M.D., announces the openuig of his office for the practice of psychiatry in Los Angeles, Calif. 
JOHN R. .MaclNNES left Los .Angeles in August to 5cr\'e as a lay missionary* with the Holy Cross Priests and Brothers in the Diocese of Fort Portal, Uganda, East Africa. FR. GEORGE MaclNNES, C.S.C, '56. his brother, is in charge of all the scliools at Butiti Mission in Uganda. 
2/Lt. LEONARD J. LeROSE has received the silver %vings of an Air Force pilot. Len has flown the newest Air Force jcl trainer aircraft and is now at Columbus AFB, Miss., flying B-52 aircraft. 
DANIEL A. HUNTOON '48 now "puts you in the driver's scat" as national sales manager for the Hertz Rent a Car Dlvisifm. The prtmiotion was announced in July by William Jann '47, Hertz Corp. vice-presi­dent. Dan joined Hertz in Chicago in 1952 and most recently was city manager for car rentals in Washington, D.C He and his wife Jeanne have six children. 
1954 
Milton J. Beaudine 76 East Court Dr. Occattur, Illinois 
This article is directed to the 800 or so unfortu­
nate '5i graduates who didn't make the June '59 
fracas. Well, anyone can make a mistake (and I 
mean mistake), but come June 12-13-H of '64 
you'll get a 2nd chance at our 10-ycar reunion. Tliere 
arc good times and then there are good times, but 
class reunions cannot be described by mere words. 
If you're lucky you may get to 10 reunions in your 
lifetime. If you've already missed the first one, 
plan now to attend our ten-year reunion in June 
before 20^ of the good times available have slipped 
by. Full details will be forthcoming. But by no 
means believe me—ask one of the 200 or so who 
attended the reunion in '59. Sec you in June! 
What would vou think if I told vou that BOB 
WRIGHT, BILL BURKE and BOB PODEN are 
planning to bring Jane, Lea and RoRo (their wives) 
to the reunion? Yes—our Notre Dame Reunion. 
Nail! Tliey wouldn't—would they? Please send 
letters of indignation (post cards will do) to BOB 
WRIGHT, 1374 Rambling Hills Dr., Cincinnati 30, 
Ohio. 

Our Class party after the Wisconsin game was rcallv well attended. It could onlv have been better if DICK PILGER had picked the U.S.C game instead. Many thanks a^ain to Dick, and the E.E. Dept. Talked %vith JERRY TOOMEY and Mar­garet. It xvas Jerry's first time back since gradu­ation but he hopes to be back again in June. Oil in the corner JOE BERTR.AND and JERRY DIXON Were talking Chicago politics. First time I'd seen Joe since '54 and he looked like he was still in pretty good shape. I shouldn't even mention JOE MESEC. He couldn't remember reading about himself after our '62 party. Joe has recently entered the life in­surance business in Milwaukee. PAT ROONEY from Pittsburgh Town was there and getting a liulc pudgy. ART DEICKM.VN was North on business from New Orleans and managed to make the game and party. .Also Mx\RT\' VIETH, who's coaching still in Toledo. Marty says he's looking forward to seeing DON 2ECH in June. JERRY "SEARS" KE.\T1NG made it up from Chi. DICK CASTELLINI and ^ladelane came up from Cincin­nati with Wright and Burke although he doesn't plan on bringing Madelane to the June Reunion. ROCK .MORRISEY was there as usual. DR. JOE JOYCE and Donna were there—missed JACK PIT­TAS, who was sitting with Elaine awaiting No. 6. LEN WELCH was also looking around for the Greek. 
JOHN SCHLOEGEL, in the security investments field in ^filwaukcc was there as well as to the 
U.S.C. game. Ruth and GEORGE PFLAUM (and George's sister and Hard Guy's brother-in-law) came over from Dayton. George is going to help with a class questionnaire which we'll get out after Christmas. JOHN L^XNDIG of chem. engineer fame and DICK EHR were also among the crowd. .•\mong the regulars were Jane and JIM BERN­HART, Karen and BILL MOREY, Pat and BILL REYNOLDS, WALT AVAGNER, GENE HOWLEY, DAN MUNSON, BOB ETTELBRICK, Sally and PAUL KELLEY, Marj- Ann and BILL CWA­NAUGH and Sheila and NED SEIM. Sheila is a Wisconsin grad so you can imagine how hard the loss was for Ned. Faces in the crowd: BOB RICH, TO.M McDERMOTT, DICK SULLIVAN, TOM GODFREY, JOHN DARAGO and JOE D'ANTONI. RON MAZZOLI was getting thin, and DANA WEITHERS getting chubby (yes, fat). FRED MANGIALARDI (trucking exec) was up from Rock­ford. Good ole PAUL KRAUS came from Toledo, and PHIL BREHM asked that I give Green Bav a plug. (What's a green bay?) WALT NASHERT enjoyed the game after a diet of Southwest football in Oklahoma. Walt looked great, so did TOM MURPHY and newly promoted associate PROF. GENE HENRY. As I wandered around through the crowd at the party, I made all sorts of mental notes for this article but six martinis erased the whole works. (Some of the blanks filled In by DICK PIL­GER below.) Next time. Huh? Better you write. 
Jonathan Taylor Raltb, May 30. born to the proud parents—Pat and FRANK RAITH. PAUL A. KELLY. M.D., 326 N. Ingalls, Ann Arbor, Mich, is practicing orthopedic surgery. With two boys and two girls, Paul and spouse iverc expecting No. 5 in August. Paul's planning on our June reunion. NORM McLEOD ('29) advised me of a BooBoo. **ACE" McLAUGHLIN is long gone from Kroger Corp, Since graduation cum laude from Cleveland Marshall Law School, he's a master F.B.I, agent working out of Oklahoma City. 
A moment of silence and a tear or two for BILL 
GUILFOILE and the New York Yankees. 
Received a nice letter from DICK "TINY" 
MORAN's wife Mary (Bless you). Tiny remains 
his tiny self and is casework supcr\'isor at the juve­
nile court of Dade County (5031 S.W. IWlh .^vc., 
Miami 55, Fla. —home). Mary and Tiny claim 
Peggy 6, John 4, Kathleen 2 and Eileen 3 months 
as their contribution to the population boom. Tiny 
hasn*t managed to get out of the Marine Rcscn'es 
yet (see you at Gitmo). 
FATHER DICK PAPEN C.S.C. '54, ordained jn 
'58 dropped a line from the Holy Cross Mission 
House at X.D. where he's been on the Mission Band. 
ED PRUD'HOMME, Texarkana. Texas, is this the 
"PEPIN" you asked about? Pravcrs are requested 
for the father of THOM^VS J. CrVMPBELL, who 
died on August 2nd. 
Remember June 12, 13, 14, I9G3. See yon there; 
iu the meantime—write. 
From DICK PILGER, Local Representative: 
Our Third annual post-footbull gathering was a 
smashing success (one of our classmates—who shall 
remain nameless—dropped one glass and had another 
knocked from his hand). ^Vbout 145 people at­
tended and had a fine time (at least it SOU.N'DED 
like a good time!). 
(Note to MILT BE.AUDINE—Last year we voted 
to quit tr>-ing to pick a winning game but to pick 
good weather instead'.) 

Tlic following members of the Class signed in. most with wife and a ntmiber with other guests as ivell: CHARLIE ALLEN, DICK ASH, JAMES BAIRD. MILT BE.\UDINE, JI.M BERNHART, JOE BERTRAND, JOHN BIERGUSSE, LEON BL.\NK, BOB BLOOM, GEORGE BOEHM, PHIL BREHM, PETE BUCHEIT, BILL BURKE. DICK C/\STELLINI, BILL CAVAXAUGH, BILL CL.\RK, BILL DALY, JOE D'ANTONI, JOHN DAR.\GO, ART DEICHMANN, JACK DILLON, JERRY DIXON, WALT DUSCHKA, DICK EHR, BOB ETTELBRINK, BOB FARBAUGH, NED GRIF­FIN, GENE HENRY, GENE HOWLEY, JOE JOYCE, JERRY KEATING, PAUL KELLY, DON LANDRY, MIKE L.\UGHL1N, FRED MANGIA­Lr\RDI, J.-VCK .MANNION, RON MA2ZIOLI, JOHN McDERMOTT, JOE .MESEC, BILL -MOR. LEY, ROCKNE MORRISSEY, BILL MUNSON, 
TO.M MURPHY, JACK NASHIRT, TO.M NES­SINGER. PAT O'MALLEY, CHARLES O'NEIL, GEORGE PFL.VUM, DICK PILGER, BOB PODEN, RICH FOLEY, BILL RE\*NOLDS, BOB RICH, PAT ROONEY, JACK ROSSHIRT, DICK RYAL, JOHN SCHLUEGEL, NED SELM, CHARLIE SPICKA, STEVE STECKBECK, DICK SUL­LIVAN, JERRY TOO.MEY, MART\* VIETH, WALTER W A G N E R , DANA WEFTHERS, CHARLES WEITZEL, LEN WELCH, BOB WRIGHT, and one whose signature I can't read. My apologies to anyone else I missed. GENE HENRY was a great help with the arrangements; I thank also all the people who let me know in ad­vance that they were coming—the ad\-ance count was much closer to the actual this year (so we had plenty of supplies—except beer, on which \vc will do better next year). Let's plan on the opening home game (Purdue, Oct. 3) again next year; in the meantime, plan now for the lOlh REUNION in June. 
Some very sad news just reached me: Rt\Y ONOFRIO died on October 15th of complications arising from a ruptured disc. Ray was with General Electric Company, Missile and Space Vehicle Di­vision, in Philadelphia. He wrote a long letter on the back of the party reminder in which he mentioned two sons (6 and V/2) and that he and Barbara were expecting a third child in October. I am having a XIass said in the name of the Clas^; the proceeds from the parties, while not large, have been enough to provide a fund for Masses for mem­bers of the Class—inform me of a death and I will make the arrangements. 
Happier news came from JOE CAMPBELL, JR., who finally decided to bring us up-to-date on his whereabouts. Joe is living in Tampa, Fla., as south­east sales manager for Protex Industries, (concrete) and has had to buy a plane and get a private pilot's license to cover the territor>*. .-Vbotit the family, he writes, **rve been married since October 13, I95G to Celeste Ann and our son Patrick was born on March 17, 1961—a true 'Fighting Irishman' born on St. Patrick's Day. He should be quarter­back about 1980 on the X.D. National Champion­ship Team." I'm glad Joe didn't say "the next 
X.D. Xational Champs"; I'm still optimistic! Joe closed by writing, "Hope to sec you all next summer for the Tenth." On that note, I will close, too. 
From the Alumni Office: RICHARD A. ROSENTHAL was general chair-
THOMAS F. McHUGH, '54 Toledoan Top Prep Football Mentor 
In October Tom McHugh started his 

eighth year as head football coach at To­
ledo's Central Catholic High, honored as 
Ohio's best coach., the first to win a state 
title for a Catholic school and, unofficially, 
as one of the best in the U.S. 
At season's opening Tom had compiled a record of 50 wins, 16 losses and three ties. His teams have never finished lower than third place in the City League. In 1959 and 1961 they finished third; in 1956-57-58, second; and in 1960 and 1962, they took first place. In 1957 and I960 Tom's teams were rated among the top ten in the state, and last year they were crowned Ohio's finest high-school football team and rated number two in the nation according to the National Sports News Ser\'ice. 
In 1962 Tom was named Ohio Coach of the Year and was selected to coach the North AU-Stars in the annual North-South high-school game in Canton, O. 
A 1950 graduate of Central Catholic, where he was named All-State fullback in his senior year, Tom played three years of varsity football at Notre Dame, and in 1953 was chosen to play in the North-South AU-Star Game in Miami. He then played a year in the Canadian Football League before re­turning to his alma mater as head coach. 
Married in 1956, Tom is the father of two children, Kathleen, 4. and Kevin, 2. He is active in the Knights of Columbus, Elks and Moose and has been working in the real estate business in Toledo for the past four years. 
man for the "Partners in Progress" (PIP) South Bend Community celebration. Dick said the cele­bration week "was one of the most important weeks in our area's history in terms of building the kind of co-operative spirit that we must have if we arc to grow and prosper." 
GERALD J. KIEFER has been appointed in­dustrial relations manager for the Celanesc Plastics Co., Greenville, S. C. His wife and four children have moved from Garden City, N. V. to S. C. to be uith him. JOHN F. SAND, JR. is a copywriter in the advertising & sales promotion dept. with RCA-EDP in Cherry Hill, N. J. Jack says he plans to make his lO-year reunion next June. 
VINCENT R. FERNANDES stopped in on his way through town to let us know he is now out of the Army with a medical retirement and is enter­ing L.S.U., Baton Rouge, this fait to major in sociology. He is engaged to Miss Emelie A. Jolly, sister of JESSE JOLLY. 
JAMES F. KELLEHER, special asst. to the post­master general, received the Post OflGce Depart­ment's annual Benjamin Franklin Award for out­standing administrative work before quitting to go into private business. ROBERT H. MIHLBAUGH won the first prize in the Ohio State Bar Associa­tion's legal essay contest with an article, "Profile of Corporate I.aw at Marathon Oil Company." The article has been widely reprinted. 
JOHNNY lATTNER is busy promoting in Chi­cago . . . handbooks, festi\-als, football tours (XJ). games of course), etc. 
1955 
Paul Fullmer 7344 N. Ridge Blvd. Chicago 45, lUinois 
First, a note of thanks to all those who turned out for the class cocktail party at the Morris Inn after the UCLA game. If all goes well, we hope to have a similar event each year after a game. We'll give vou plentv of notice. In fact, watch the next issue of the .\LU.MXUS. 
Letter of the cycle goes to F.ATHER JOE O'DOXXELL. (In case of ties, all decisions go to the CS.C.'s!) Father Joe reports that he spent the first year after ordination as a prefect and coun­sellor in a freshman hall while picking up his master's degree. Jerry Hughes made life difficult by threatening to write a letter to the freshmen in the hall, opening with this refrain—"I remember when Father O'Donncll. . ." 
Father Joe now h in his third year as a member of the Holy Cross Mission Band, so you may run into him at your local parish. He covers the Mid­west and West. He also preaches retreats at the Fattma Retreat House on campus and you can send any correspondence there. 
While in the Cleveland area in June, Father Joe attended FATHER JIM SHERER'S first solemn Mass in Bowling Green. Tliey had a reunion with TOM WELLY, JIM STEVENS and JOHN CON­XAUGHTOX. He also had dinner in Cleveland with the late BILL BYRNE'S folks, who always are happy to see any of Bill's friends. 
He added that MIKE KELLY also stops in periodically to sell a little oil. Mike probably says a few prayers for a cold winter! LEE CREAN is with Universal Match in South Bend (besides CFM, civil rights committees and Republican politics) and stops in with his wife, Mary, to see Father Joe. LEM JOYNER, who started with us but finished after us, lives with his wife and fi\'e boys in South Bend. He works at St. Christopher Workshop in Bremen, Ind., and Father Joe reports that he is an excellent designer and manufacturer of ecclesiastical art. 
Many thanks, BERNIE SMYTH, for the kind words about this column. So far it's been a ball. When It gets to be a chore, Bcrnie, Til send you the files! Bernie has extended a special invitation to those of us from Chicago to visit the "new frontier" around Spokane to spend our "smoked, stained, dirty money." 
Bernie is personnel and labor relations manager for the Continental Baking Co. in Spokane. His address is 518 W. 27th, Spokane. He has three children. Bernie has been active in the Xotrc Dame Club there and is a past president. 
Here's some dope on the boys from St. Edward's, courtesy of Bernie. His brother-in-law, DAS McCULLOUGH, has been elected president of Maclin Motors of Calgary, Alberta. He's still a bachelor and had enough time to win the Canadian badminton championship. Ex-quarterback JIM BIGELOW is living in the Seattle area and gets paid by General Motors, a fairly reliable automotive firm. JIM TOOHEY, who works for General Dynamics in Sacramento, gets up to the Xorthwest now and then. BERNIE WIELOCH, a sales repre­sentative of Kaiser Aluminum in San Francisco, also passes through - Spokane and at last report he had four children. JACK McDER^lOTT, who has three children, is a professor of English at Gonzaga University in Spokane. 
If your name is JOE DONOVAN, JLM LUOTTO, 

Notre Dame Alumnusy Year End, 1963 
GEORGE RIORDAN, JON T\*SON, ERNIE 
MAHER, JOHN WEITHERS, DON FREUND, 
GEORGE VOSMIK, LARRY MULLINS, or JIM 
PAVIS, Bcmie would like to Iiear from you— 
pronto! 
Here are a couple of notes from llic academic 
front. JOHN WACK is back for another year in the 
Iustor>' department at Wheeling College (W. Va.). 
His history classmate, JIM BERQUIST, has tackled 
the eastern seaboard uith his Iowa wit through a 
post in Philadelphia's Villanova University histor>' 
department. JOHN DERWENT, who picked up 
his doctorate in mathematics at tJie University this 
June, now is a math prof, back at school. 
BILL WALSH, one of the many '55crs still wear­
ing Uncle Sam's finest woolens, can be reached at 
1212 Norvell St., El Cerrito, Calif. Bill's a Nav>* 
lieutenant and recently received his "master of 
science in management—^wiih distinction" from llie 
Na\-y's postgraduate school in Monterey. He placed 
fifth in a class of 103. What's wrong with first 
place. Bill? At this writing Bill is attending a 
five-month transportation management school. Bill 
and wife, Joan, have three children. Tlie Air Force 
has JERRY HUGHES studying international rela­
tions in California. 
JIM PHILLIPS, according to Bill, got married 
in June at New London, Conn. Jim is a career sub­
mariner. Incidentally, Bill would like to hear from 
ROD CYRIER and JOE SMITH. 
Here arc some more news notes from our *'boys in blue." (Or was it our "blue boys?") JOHN IXE has his mail delivered at I8-D Buckeye Circle, Loclcbournc .Air Force Base, Columbus, Ohio. TED LAUGHLIN is at Eglin Air Force Base in Florida. PAUL KRIENKE is enjoying the California sun, courtesy of the Navy, at San DIcgo. FORST BROWN' was discharged from the flcid hospital routine and now is at University Hospital, 2065 Adclbcrt Road, Cleveland. CHARLEY BENNETT has switched his Naw address for a civilian one— 312 Belle Arbor Drive, Chcny Hill, N. J. 

I have three candidates for the "address of the year." DON MATTHEWS leads off wjtii 1 Broad­way, New York City. How's that for class? Well maybe STEVE SHIMAZU can top him witli Britan­nica of Australia, Limited, 300 Castlcreagh St., Sydney-, Australia, You can almost sec the pipe and tweeds witli the bookshelves in the background. IVAN HUSOVSKY lias a foreign address with a little mystery—2bus, rue Delcau, Ncuilly-siir-Seinc, France. I hope he doesn't drink! Well, which one do you vote for? TIic winner will get my two ticket stubs from the Wisconsin game. 
WALT CLEMENS, our professional foreign stu­dent, dropped mc a note from the Center For International Studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Tcclinology. He's doing research on Soviet arms control poIic>* for the government. (AVIiose, Walt?) Walt has one child. Walt's old buddy, R.-\Y KE-\­NEDY, now is in Time's Boston bureau. 
HARRY NIEMANN, who learned to prop a press card in his battered fedora with me in the journa­lism department, reports that he has finished his sixth year with Allstate Insurance. He's a member of the Underwriting Department. Harry is attend­ing night school at the University of Pcnns>ivania's WTiarton School for a Chartered Properly and Casualty UndcnvTiter designation. (You've got me snowed, Harry.) 
Although he hasn't seen his old buddy, TOM O'HARA, since graduation, Hany has heard through the grapevine that Tom is a pilot in the Air Force and plans to make it a career. P.AT Di PAS­QUALE is married and living in Pittsburgh, accord­ing to Harr%'. 
Incidentally, Harr>* has three clitldrcn. Since AUstate's home office is in Skokie, only a few miles from my apartment, I hope to sec Harry when he comes in to accept a vice-presidcnc>' at about 100 grand a year. Hany's address is 3903 Patrician Drive, Philadelphia. 
There's been quite a bit of traffic in and out of South Bend recently. (I don't blame those getting away from the "garden spot of America.") HOWARD HART moved over our wav—32 \V. Westfield, Dcs Plaincs, III. TONY EVERS now can be reached at 539 Telford Ave., Dayton. TOM MARKO left Kansas, however, for South Bend, where he now lives at 425 S. 28th St. 
BOB DEBREY, who married Claudctte .Allie of Manitowoc, Wis., last October, is living at 203 N. Cuyler Ave., Oak Park, III. Bob is a product designer and engineer with the Product Development Center of the Illinois Institute of Technology Re­search Institute in Chicago. 
PRANK ORLANDO left Pennsylvania for GEORGE IZO's hometown, Barberton, Ohio. Frank's address is 124 Sixth St., N.W. HUGH SCHAEFER, the biggest man in Texas, has tackled Oklahoma. His current address is 1384 E. 26th St., Tulsa. JIM OWENS moved from St. Louis to 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
2018-B 54th St., Lubbock, Texas. While we're on the subject of the Lone Star State, JOE SMITH left Galveston for Lanham, Maryland (6827 Trcxler Ct.). JOE CROWLEY left the Buckeye State for Newark, Delaware (309 Arbour Drive). 

DICK G.AUTHIER sent along a cute clipping from the local paper. It seems that the neighbors put up a large sign on his front lawn (Guess What? It's A Boy!) after Marjorie presented Dick with his fifth child, but first candidate for the N.D. varsity. Later Dick appeared in front of the house (9027 Parrish Ave., Highland, Ind.) to pass out cigars. Dick, who is vice-president and cashier for a local bank, can't quite believe it yet. It seems that the nurses kidded Iiim after the birth and asked htm what he was going to name his new "daughter." Finally the doctor came out and told Dick that he indeed finally had a boy. 
DICK BEEMAN and his wife. Sue, welcomed their fifth cliild in July. That should put them right up there in the stork race. Let's hear from the other contenders! Dick got the message and bought a larger house. Tlieir new addrc^ss is 546 Keystone, River Forest, 111. Dick and his father are in the wholesale paper business. 
CHUCK COLLINS, who left the Chicago scene several years ago, is practicing law in Newark. N. J., these days. At last report he had two children. 
TIM DEVEREUX, another of my journalism buddies, is an account executive with a new Chicago advertising agency—Marshall John & Associates. Tim also bought a big house for his brood in a western suburb—735 S. Wcsle\-, Oak Park, III. 
JOE D.ALEY, who dropped from the face of the earth for a few years (you've got to write, Joe!), popped up in Chicago for a visit this summer. He's still out east. According to my bird dog, Joe is a legal eagle with the Securities Exchange Commis­sion with offices in New York. 
That old smoothie, GEORGE SHELTON, decided to turn his soutliem charm on our Windy City. George drove his wife and three bo>-s up from New Orleans. He's with the A. L. Jacluon construction company—in finance, of course! 
While in California this year, George ran into DON PETERS in Los Angeles. Don has three boys. He also had a big evening with .MIKE JACKMAN, wlto is tcacliing high sdiool and coaching basketball in LA. 
I saw MIKE WARD on the street the other day, and he said that JOE HAYDEN now has two boys and a girl. Joe lives in Philadelphia. 
While at the Chicago Club's golf outing, I couldn't believe my eyes when I spotted D.AN "ESKIMO" MOORE across the room. (OK, it was the bar. 
but it was still early!) Dan was in for the bar association (no pun intended) meeting and his sister's wedding. A gay bachelor, Dan then Jetted down to Mexico City for a little vacation. If you u-ant to get the lowdoivn on Alaska, you can contact Dan at Box 4820, Anchorage. He says the legal business is good. It must be. Who else could afford to fly around North America on vacation? 
Speaking of flying vacations, JERRY BRANS* FIELD just popped off for a European Jaunt. Oh yes, he took Maureen! JIM GRIFFIN and wife, Bunni, went to Rome for her brother's ordination. They spent about three \%'ccks in Europe. 
While on our European kick, I just received a letter from JOHN SLAVICK, who is with the U.S. Information Scr\icc at the American (what else?) Embassy in Bern, Switzerland. Right off you can see that he has a pretty tough life. John's letter made me feel good, though, for he arranged a meeting with FRi\NK TONINI in Milan through an address we provided in a recent column. Ann Landers—watch out! 
Frank, too, is with the U.S. Information Service and John had a chance to meet his charming wife. John started his European service in Stuttgart, Germany, and then moved on to Heidelberg and Bonn. That stint of 10 months completed his train­ing (after six months in Washington) and he moved on to Bern in March, just in time to go skiing and sprain his ankle. (Stay at the typewriter, John, and you won't break an ankle.) 
I'll give him one free plug for the Switzerland Chamber of Commerce. "I would just tike to mention that Bern is an hour away from the best skiing in the world, that I can take three guests (cramped) in the apartment, that one can cat extremely well in Bern, and that I would enjoy playing host to anyone who is willing to split the price of a cheese fondue." If you don't accept his invitation, "Slav" says he'll sec one and all at the reunion in '65. 
A salute to MIKE KELLY, LOU ZEFR.\N, RUSS TOOHEY, JACK FLYNN, DICK COOK and CHARLIE GOMEZ- for putting together "Organization *55"—an informal class group here in Chicago. After the initial meeting in September, the guys have decided to meet at JOHNNY LAT­TNER'S (remember him?) Steak House downtoi»n on Madison Street the third Tuesday of the odd-numbered months. So mark Nov. 19, Jan. 21 and March 17 on your calendar right now. Meetings start at 5:30 (drinking, that is) and cvcr>'onc is on his own. All members of the class are welcome. Contact mc or MIKE KELLY (WA2-7400) on Mon­days. Others attending the first meeting were: 
IDAHO—The ghost town of Silver City in rugged Owyhee County was the site of the Idaho Club*s family outing last summer. Families picnicked in the romantic ruins of the Old West and celebrated Mass in the mining town's abandoned church. 
BAKERSFIELD—Californians present for N.D. Night dinner included (I.-r.) Mr. and Mrs. John Antongiovani, Mr. and Mrs. Alex Buechler, Mrs. Bob Anspach, Bob Stkur, Bob Anspach, Mr. and Mrs. Dick Barnett, Notre Dame Alumni Field Secretary Tom Kcman, A(r. and Mrs. Jim Trino, and Afr. and Mrs. Bryan Coleman. Club is one of ten N.D. alumni chapters in the Golden State. 
BOB WING, JOHN WEITHERS, BILL TICE, JOE RAFFERTY, TONY PASQUESI, TIM NORTON, GEORGE MEYERS, GERRY HILLSMAN, TOM HAYES, JOHN HARTIGAN, HOWARD HART, NEAL HALLORAN, HANK GIES, MIKE FIL­LICHIO and DICK BEEMAN. 
From tlie Alumni Office: 
JAMES M. SHERER was ordained a Holy Cross 

Foreign Mission priest in June and wIH remain in 
the States for further study. FR, JACK KEEFE, 
C.S.C, had been working with the Bwamba and 
P>'gmics in Uganda, East Africa for the past two 
years, and an article about his work appeared in the 
April, 1963, issue of Pageant Magazine. He has been 
assigned to work in the northern part of the dio­
cese—the Lugwara, Aluo and Bunyoro Tribes. 
SR. MARY VIVIAN BR^VND, P.H.J.C., one of 

our summer co-eds, received a doctor of philosophy 
from St. Louis U. in June. 
ROBERT J. DEBREY is presently employed by 

Illinois Institute of Technology Research in Chicago 
as a product designer and engineer in their Product 
Development Center. He married Miss Claudettc 
AHie in Manitowoc, Wis., October '62, and they 
were expecting their first child in October '63. 
JOSEPH L. SHILTS, a registered civil engineer 

in the State of California, has been appointed street 
superintendent for the city of Santa Clara, Calif. 
He is married and has two children. EDWARD T. 
BORU S has been appointed financial analyst in the 
treasurer's office of Ford Motor Company, Detroit. 
He was an economic analyst for a Detroit bank. He 
is a member of the N.D. Detroit Club and a com­
mittecman for the N.D. Challenge Program. PAUL 
R . FIGEL , Davenport, la., representative of Na­tional Life of Vermont, has been elected a director of the Davenport Junior Chamber of Commerce. He is also chairman of sales for the Davenport County Fair Days. RALPH GUGLIELMI, New York Giants, has signed his sixth National Football League contract. FR(\NK BURGE is now product line manager for Bcckman Instruments, Inc., in Richmond, Calif. 
F.VTHER JAMES STUPFEL, C.S.C, all 125 lbs. of liim, has been heard to say, "I've eaten so many chickens that I can't stand the sight of them." On a recent safari in Uganda one of the many gifts he received ^^-as 15 chickens. It was an odd sight to see Father drive into the Bukwali Mission with chickens . . . and what-not .. . all over his bintu (safari epuipment). Father says the Sisters' Convent needs a new roof. 
Captain PAUL R. REED, assi. prof, of militar\' science at the U. of Kansas, Lawrence, was in charge of the "Trainfire'* rifle range at the 1963 ROTC summer encampment at Fort Riley. Capt. Reed and his wife are residents of Lawrence, Kans. 
JAMES F. TWOHY wrote that he prefers to be on the Class of '55 list, as most of his acquaintances arc in this group, even though he graduated in ^57. 
1956 
Alvm D. Vitt 4 Wind Rush Creek (West) St. Louis 41, Missouri 
My thanks to those of you who responded with news for our column. Apparently Europe, Illinois, has more appeal than 1 realized. 
JLM MCCARTHY , who describes himself and his family as "gypsies with U. S. Gypsum Company,*' has settled at 2335 Hillandale Road, Davenport, Iowa, after being transferred from Chicago. After three years in the Marine Corps, Jim, Barbara (St. Mary's *56) and their cluldren—currently four boys and a girl—started civilian life whh U. S. Gypsum Company in Chicago. While in the Ma­rines, Jim and DENNY POWERS served in sister squadrons. Jim sees BILL WIEMAN (in person and in print) in Davenport. Bill is with the Da\-enport Times-Democrat. I also heard from Jim that GENE BRENXAN, selling Xerox at 23 and Litton at 10 back a few years ago, is monopolizing the brokerage business in Chicago; JIM MITCHELL is with an architectural firm in Xasliua, New Hamp­shire, with his wife, Ann, children and cats. 
I ^vas happily surprised one day when I received a letter from St. Mary's Seminary, Roland Park, Baltimore 10, Jfar^-Iand, signed by a classmate whom many will remember from Zahm, Morrissey, Dillon and ofT-campus—NLVRTY DEVEREAUX. After graduation Marty was seen for two years as the only person in an army uniform at Fairchild Air Force Base, Spokane,. Washington. From Spokane Marty headed to St. Henry's Preparatory Seminary, Belleville, Illinois, for Latin; St. Marj''s Seminary in Baltimore for philosophy and theology*; and in 1966 the diocese of Miami, Florida, \rill have a new priest. Marty has heard from BOB HURD, who with his wife, Liz, and sons, Peter and Joe, lives at 6533 Strouda Road, Houston, Texas; TOM COONAN living at 429 Standard Street, El Segundo, California; JACK McCARTAN Hnng at 937 Bridge­water Drive, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; and PHIL CINNEDELLA on Central Avenue, Fredonia, New York, only a block from Marty's home address at 33 Forbes Street, Fredonia. 
JIM HURLEY, who wrote a grand letter from 78 Montclair Avenue in Montclair, New Jersey, has included news about evcr>-one but himself. P.\UL 
JOHN R. MacINNES '53 joined 26 other Lay>Mission Helpers oC the Archdiocese of Los Angeles in Labor Day ceremonies presided over by Cardinal Mclntyre be­fore leawng for Uganda, East Africa, to do social work in the Diocese of Fort Portal, entrusted to the Holy Cross Fa­thers under Bishop McCauley, C.S.C. Rev. George Maclnnes, C.S.C., John's brother, has been in Uganda for three years. 
BEREZNY, who was married June 29 to Louise 'Wegner, is often entering his Evanston, Illinois, office with a red umbrella—Paul is an agent for the Travelers Insurance Company. DAVE FLEMING, a banker in Springfield, JVfassachusetts, was married to Barbara Lennon in August. CARL BELIN, his wife, Carol, and their three children arc living in Clearfield, Pennsylvania, whcr; Carl is practicing law with his father. JOHN MALONEY, his wife, Frances, and daughter, Oecn, arc moving to Con­necticut with Hess Oil Company. 
Adelle and BILL BORACZEK last seen m Ne%v Rochelle—Bill selling U. S. Treasury notes on Wall Street. PAT SNYDER works for Cummins Engines in Columbus, Indiana. RAY DREXLER practices law in Chicago with a patent law firm. JIM RE* VORD, his wife and two daughters are living in Park Ridge, Illinois. TED LUM, our 50th State's most illustrious Notre Dame alumnus, is a member of the Trapplst Community at the Aiibey of Geth­semani, Trappist, Kentucky—^Those of you north of the Mason-Dixon Line should head south to see this inspiring Kentucky town and retreat house. TOM "WEBB" SEXTON \%-as last seen leaving the \'ault of the Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company with a briefcase on his \vay to his wife and home in Evanston—by the way, Tom is a loan officer there. 
£\-anston, Illinois, is also the home of DON aARLIN, his \vifc, son and daughtei^IMS Oak Avenue. Don has been associated with the patent law firm of Anderson, Lucdeka, Fitch, Even & Tabin for the last 3/2 years. JOHN ENGLER, his %%ife. Peg, two sons and daughter are Northfield, Illinois, homeowners; and John is a broker with Merril, L>'ncli. . . . BILL BREHL, his wife. Dawn, and their two children just joined a law firm in Minne­apolis, Minnesota, after enjoying three years in the Army JAG at Ft. Bclvoir, Va.; DAVE ANSTGEN has been living in Inglewood, California, with his wife, Muriel, and their children. HANK DKON , GEORGE BLAKE. JOHN a\SEY are all working in Chicago. 
On October 19, Rochester, N. Y., will be the wedding town of SIDNEY WILKENS and Angela DeMaria. Sid has asked PAUL MEBELHOR to be an usher—also expects to sec JERRY SWEENEY (Boston), JERRY CURRAN, DAVE DAVIN. FILVNK CAPPELLINO (all from Rochester), R.\Y SCHLITZER (Schenectady) BOB KEEGAN (New­port News) sipping champagne. After a honeymoon Sid will return to the budget section of Eastman Kodak's Advertising Department. 
The "Fighting Irish" would lose ihnr famous name if it were not for an occasional Kelly or O'Brien, but %vhat about TOM HUBBARD, 39 Park Drive, Torrington, Connecticut—who married Anne Farley and now has 5 Hubbards: Erin, Meghan, Farley, Dcirdre, and Tara! Tom is president of the Naugatuck Valley Notre Dame Alumni Club and also is associated %vith his father in the City Bus Lines, Inc., &. Yellow Cab of Torrington. Another alumn! club president is BOB SIMKINS of 1137 West Lorain Street, Appleton, Wisconsin. Bob is married and works for the Humislon-Keeling wholesale drug company in .Appleton. PETE HAN­SEN is living just north of St. Louis in Florissant. 
BURTON TOEPP was married in June 1958— now Bud, his wife, Barbara, and three daughters, Lisa, Julie and Paula are living in LaGrange, III. (546 S. Stone Ave.) Bud is feeding the computers of the Western Electric Company in Chicago; both Barbara and Bud u-ant to hear (so do we) from DON MOSER, DWAIN SPENCER and ROY LUCKETT. 
CONNIE TRIMBER (MD '60 Jefferson Medical School) and I had lunch together during Connie's short stop in St. Louis last July. Curently Dr. Trimber is employed by the Navy at Andrews AFB —he, his \vife and son live in Washington, D.G., at 5082 Silver Hill Court. Connie will probably 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 45 
evenlually return to Philadelphia for his medical 
practice in ophthaImoIog>'. 
JERRY SHEA was married to Joan Bergener on 
September 14 in Eastchester, N. Y. After graduation 
from K.D., Jerry attended New York University 
where he received a master's degree in civil engi­
neering before starting to work for the engineering 
& arcliitectural firm of Tippetts, Abbett, McCarthy 
& Stratton. 
JOHN CYWINSKI is chief resident at the Chil­dren's ^femorial Hospital in Chicago until July 1, 19&4, when the Na\-y will host John and Sue's itinerary for the following 2 >TS. Janet and PETER FOY recently added No. 6 to the family, and John and Sue will have another name following their Kathy and Johnny in January. 
DA\ ^ COLLINS, in the true Collins fashion, wrote a letter that could be used for a column by itself. Actually I may be making a mistake by not saving it for the next issue of the ALUMNUS— let's hope not. Pave is in the Law Department of Johnson & Johnson with offices in New Brunswick, New Jersey; he, his wife Judy, and 8-month-o!d son, Patrick live at 800 Forest Avenue, ^Vestficld, New Jersey. In June Dave and Judy returned to Notre Dame for his brother's graduation. They missed seeing STE\ ^ RODGER5, who is married, has 2 children and currently teaches in the general program. Steve and Dave attended Har\-ard at the same time—Stei'e in the Graduate Arts School and Dave in the Law School. TThe Collinses did however see TOM MCNEI L and his new bride, Ingrid, whom he met in Austria. Tom is practidng law in Chi­cago—Dave said that Tom on several occasions this summer substituted for his father, Don, on the famous "Breakfast Club" radio show, JOHN MAHER and DON SNEIGOAVSKI are also leaching at N.D. On the return to Net*' Jersey, Dave and Judy stopped in Chicago to visit some of the old friends. BOB (BENITO) CARRANE's apartment on the Near North Side of Chicago was the scene of a house-warming party for TOM DONOVAN, FRANK TIGHE, PAUL NOLAND, PHIL AVHITE, JOHN DEASY, \VEBB SEXTON et al. (wives) —^mostly all lawyers too: Noland, DcPaul; Dono\*an; Carrane, a lauycr and real estate speculator; Phil ^Vhite, ^Vhite Cap Company. Nancy and JACK CASEY also live in Chicago, where Jack is practic­ing Iaw< 
J. P, MOORE married Elizabeth McDonald on October 12, 1963, in Vineland, Ontario. Jack, as most of us know him, after graduation and a tour of duty flying Jets for the Navy received his master's degree In ps>*cholog>* from George AVashington Uni­versity. Jack and Elizabeth will soon be living In St. Louis where he will be working for McDonnell Aircraft Corp., and also for a doctorate in psy­chology. 
Today I saw our St. Louis football Cardinals squeak by the Pittsburgh Steelers 24-23. RAY LEIifEK played a brilliant offensive game against the Cardinals along with Red Mack and Myron Pottios. 
FATHER DAVE MAX, JOE BILL, MIKE MULRONEY, RAY TERLIZZI, TOM CREHAN, JUAN PACHECO, and M.\SON SULLI\^AN arc long overdue (1956) with some news! 
Best wishes to you all for A Veiy* Merry Christ­mas and A Happy and Holy Ne%v Year. 
From the Alumni Office: ARON KUPPERMANN, Ph.D. '56, has been pro­moted to the rank of full Professor at the Univer­sity of Illinois. \TNCENT L. SHEERAN is a Royal McBce Corp. data processing sales representative In Detroit. JAMES ^V. FAY is working with tlic Agency for International Development, a bureau of the State Dept. that administers the US foreign assistance program. He ranked In the upper three or four percent of all candidates taking the Civil Service wTitten and oral exams for government work at the junior executive level. Jim and Carolyn have two children: Anne Cronin, four, and William Fl>-nn, three. GERALD J. MASSEY %vas recently appointed assistant professor of philosophy at Michi­gan State Univ. He received his BA . and M.A. at N.D. and his Ph.D. in s>Tnbolic logic at Princeton Univ. He is a member of the Association for s>Tn­bollc Logic and was recipient of a Danforth Founda­tion Fclloushlp. EDWARD G. MURPHY, Nc^rton, Mass., has been appointed a career Foreign Service officer by Fres. Kennedy. The appointment makes him a vice-consul and a secretary in the Diplo­matic Service, and he is presently attending the Foreign Service Institute in Arlington, Va., in preparation for hb overseas assignment. 
REV. JAMES T. BURTCHAELL, C.S.C. has successfully sailed the River Jordan from its source in the north to where it flows into the Dead Sea, a distance of about 100 miles. Father Burtchaell, after studying geographical aspects of the area for 

46 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 2963 
PHILIP J. LUCIER M2 (left), president of Continental Telephone Co. of St. Louis, Mo., looks on ^vith stock specialist John Farrell as Board Chairman Charles Wohl­stetter telephones news of trading on 
1.6 million common shares in the company admitted to trading and listing with the American Stock Exchange. Since 1960 Continental has acquired nearly 40 pn­vate telephone companies across the U.S. 

two years before the trip, was accompanied by a Jordanian and made the journey in a small boat in 36 hours. Jordan officials said several previous attempts to sail the full length of the river in the 20th Century had failed. 
JOHN J. LONSBURY Is teaching at Roosevelt High in San Bcrnandlno, Calif. John is married, has two children, and has purchased a home at 2580 Lincoln Drive in San Bernardino (92405). 
REV. J. DAVID MAX stopped in at the Alumni Office to visit when he was here for the So. Calif, giune. 
TOM QUINN, while on his European tour, ran into many N.D. men starting with the flight over. In Rome he heard the Victory March In Italian. At Pope Paul's first audience he saw three otlier alumni, including FATHER SCHLITZER, 3rd floor prefect In Dillon Hall in '54 and '55. AVhile riding a motorbus In Venice he bumped into another alumnus. While touring tlie former Nazi concentra­tion camp at Dachau, Germany, he spied an N.D. **tee" shirt across the compound. He said, '*It is most likely to find a fellow Notre Dame family member in the most unlikely places. The spirit of Notre Dame is Indeed world-wide." 
Capt. VIRGIL J. PAIVA, Naugatuck, Conn., was graduated from special professional officer training given in recognition of his demonstrated potential as a leader in the aerospace force. Capt. Pai\*a Is now assigned to Grifiiss AFB, N. Y. Capt. RALPH 
L. FICKLING, a navigator. Is now on duty with an Air Force advIsor>- unit assisting the Vietnamese armed forces in tlieir fight against Communist aggression. RICHARD ^V. BURKE '40, from the 
N.D. Accounting Office, received a Christmas card 
from Saigon: .Major JOSEPH S. CHIMENTO, 
A.O. 790880 Dct, No. 4 APRFE, A.P.O. 143, San Francisco, Calif. Joe vvTole on the card that he has been there since Feb., '63 and uill return to the States in Feb., *64. His wife Henrietta and 6 children are waiting for him In Mobile, where the children are all in school and in good health. Joe met GENE WAGNER and vrifc and 3 children in the Philippines in August. He heard BOB KIRBY Is flying C-I30 aircraft out of Okinawa. 
FATHER GEORGE .MacINNES, C.S.C. spends his school holidays teaching catechism. He Is In charge of all the schools at ButitI Mission, Fort Portal, Uganda, East Africa. Fr. Maclnncs' brother, JOHN R. '53, left Los Angeles in August to serve as a lay missionary In Uganda. 
PAUL H. NOLAND JR. received his juris doctor from DcPaul U. this past June. MICHAEL EUGENE ENDRES received a doctor­ate of philosophy at St. Louis U. this June. 
FR. ROBERT HESSE has been appointed pastor of Bukwali Parish in Fort Portal, East Africa—the first Holy Cross Priest to become a pastor In the new diocese. "Concerning my new obedience, I ask all my friends to help me with their prayers and sacrifices. " 
1957 
John P. McMccl 
30 E. 42nd St. New York 17, N.Y. 
JOE SANTOS reports that his brother-in-la\s-, BILL THEES is the personnel manager at the Bunting Brass & Bronze Co., in Toledo. Joe goes on to tell us that DICK TORDA Is with LaSalle's Department Store In Toledo. Bill has tv\'0 boys, Dick two girls and just had the first boy. JERRY THEES is In Grand Rapids with Doehler-Jarvis. Jerry has the same head count as Dick. Joe him­self is with the Export Division of the DeVIlbis Co. Joe will be forced to miss tlic first few games this Fall since business will take him to South America. Tough life, especially when most of us can't even make It to Scranton. DEAN RICHARDS is also in Toledo teaching and is active In the Northern Ohio School on .Anti-Communism. By the way, Santos is preparing to support St. Mar>''s witli three lovelies. . . . Edna Kunz In a wonderful letter told me the happiness that tlicir adopted daughter, Adriennc Ferine has brought them. She came to them \%'hen she was all of eight days old. Tlie old man, HENRY KUNZ, Is supporting the title of co-ordlnator-servicc analyst, staff, for the Sea Land Service Corporation. Henry has also re­ceived his M.B.A. in accounting from N. Y. U. He is now studying for his Law Degree at Seton Hall. Thanks Mrs. Kunz for this information. You have a right to be proud of your two kids. . . . TERRY NIEUWLANDT Is now living with his family In Santa Ana, Cal. Present count Is two and two. Terry Is with Autonetics, a division of North American Aviation, as a method anal>-st In adminis­tration. He reports that RAY ARROYO and his wife Raclid arc living in Gardcna, Cal., where Kay is tcaclilng and coaclilng at Scrra Catholic High. TOM CUNNINGHAM and BOB HOLLAND also teach and coach at Scrra. BOB LONCHARICH reports that he is still "baching" it in St. Louis 
PANAMA — ND Trustee Al Stepan '31, Mrs. Stepan and son John joined Bishop Mark McGrath C.S.C. '45 (at right) as guests of the lieutenant governor on a tour of the Panama Canal in August. The visit was too short for a full Club gathering. 
CDR. JOSEPH D. USINA '45, USN, became commanding officer of the destroyer leader USS Mitscher (right) on August 27 in ceremonies at Neivport, R. I. Commander Usina received his commission from Notre Dame's ROTC and served as an aide and gunnery officer aboard the carrier Bennington in strikes against Japanese islands late in W. W. II. Reactivated for the 
-Korean conflict in 1950, he served on the carrier Essex in air-strike and support operations for a Navy Unit Commendation. Staff work in Nor^vay and postgraduate school preceded a tour as operations officer on the USS Larson guarding Formosa with the 7th Fleet, Naval War College, and service as executive officer of USS Rush with the 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean and Central America. Since 1961 he has been in Washington ^vith the Bureau of Naval Personnel. He and wife Patricia will live in Middletown, R.I., with three sons, Michael, Joseph and Stephen, and two daughters, Teresa Ann and Laureen Elizabeth Usina. 
while putting in time with ^fcDonnclI. Also with Bob at McDonnell arc BILL MEYER, STEVE JENDRAS, and TOM SCHWEIKERT. Bill, Steve and Tom arc not as lucky. They arc married, and Steve has really set the pace with 4. DON KIGALI, wife and child arc living in Albuquerque where Don is with Sandia. RON WITT is in the same family situation but with GE in Daytona Beach, Fla. Thanks for the news, Bob. . . . Re­ceived news from BILL MCGOWAS* in Indianapolis that JERRY BECKERT had a little "Tim" . . . That DAVE FOLEY and McGOWAX were chair­man for the 10-ycar Cathedra! High School Reunion held last June 22. Had dinner with Bill and his wife Joan in Indianapolis last July. Good news for all. Bill hasn't cliangcd a bit!!! Recently in St. Louis I got together one evening with the follow­ing: RAY ROTH, who is working towards his MBA at Washington University; CONNIE L.\INE, who graduated from St. Louis Law School and will set up practice in St. Louis; MATT WEISS, who is with the Foundation Office at St. Louis U.; GUS LUEPKE, and Judy whose old man is doing a ster­ling job with one of the top law firms in the city. The party was held at the beautiful home (with outside pauo) of the WILLIAM BARTLINGS. Bill and his wife, Jenny, have one daughter and he is busily engaged in making a "bundle" for himself and the Monarch Weather Stripping Corp. . . . With mixed emotions I must report that our good friend, JACK CROWLEY, has left the fold and married himself to one SaUy Hogan from Dallas. The sacrifice took place in Big "D " on September 28. We who arc now left alone, but along with those who have succumbed, raise our glasses on high in a toast to their happiness. In the same breath I can still report that CONNIE L.AINE, MATT WEISS and RAY ROTH arc still among the "elite." But there are rumors that two of the above are rather shaky. Also learned that MARK M.-\LV and Kathy have one young sweet thing and that JOE ROSS is in the brokerage business with Dempscy-Teglcr and is the father of tivo. BILL "BEAR" GRAVES graduated from the University of Kentucky Law School in June. Bear is now a law clerk to Chief Justice James Millikcn of the Kentucky Court of Appeals. Our congrats, Bear, for a job well done and an auspicious beginning. Bill is living in Lexington. JACK SOUCY is begin­ning his 2nd year internal medicine residency at Wadsworth V.A. Hospital in Los Angeles, Jack is a 19GI graduate of St. Louis U. Med. School. . . . MARSHALL CATANZARO, also a 1961 grad of St. Louis U. Medical, began his first year urolog>* residcnc>' at Kansas City General Hospital in July, 1963. BOB GRIFFIN is in Evansville, Ind., with Indian Archer>-& Toy Corp. . . . BILL HUM­MEL was married May 4tli in St. Louis and is now in Ills 2nd year radioIog>* rcsidenc>-. JOHN AVIN­NER reports that he has obtained his M.S. in zoology at N. D. and is presently working tov'.'ards his Ph.D. in aquatic ecology*. On June 23 he really 
accomplished something and married Gillian Lewis, a Ph.D. candidate in zoology at the University from Wales. In September, Gill and John moicd to Windsor, Ontario, where he will begin his duties as a lecturer in Invertebrate Zoology at the Uni­versity of Windsor. Whew, just to attempt to spell and pronounce those subjects would be a full time job. Congratulations, John, all the way around. . , . TERRY BYRNE has also changed his status doubly in the past few months. First he took Miss Sally Emling on Sept. 2 for his bride, and then he moved to Rhode Island where he is doing graduate work at Brown University. Once again, our Congrats for two jobs well done and doing. . . . While run­ning for a plane recently in Evansville, Ind., I crossed paths with PAUL HORNUNG running in the opposite direction. The "Golden One" is busily engaged in PR work this year. He was going to be in Lynchburg, Va., come the week of October 14 and was to get together with Pat and T. O. DOYLE as well as DIXIE LEWIS and the 'Sirs. Would love to have been there but will just have to wait until the next Issue to report the activities. AL DANT was in N. Y. C. recently. Al and his wife Marilyn (formerly Marilvn Hammett, sister of JOHN HAMMETT) are living in Bay Village out­side of Cleveland. Al is busily engaged in the advertising field for the Cleveland Plain Dealer and, along with our FRANK HE.NNESSEY at the Chicago Tribune is setting all kinds of records. FRANK "COPS & ROBBERS" HENNESSEY \vas reported last seen down Bermuda way on a lark. 
JOHN HARRINGTON '52 (right) is con­gratulated by Alassachusctts Governor Endicott Peahody on his appointment to represent the state as trustee to the New England Council World's Fair Corpora­tion, supervising the regional e.\hibit at the New York fair in 1964. 
. . . Have reports that JACK CASEY took a trip 
to Europe in September. Thb news was furnished 
to me by Cosa Nostra. . . . Speaking of that organi­
zation, I think it best the Better Business Bureau 
watch the new activities of one JOSEPH REICH. 
He has recently joined the Woodmoor Corporatioo 
in Colorado Springs. It is la the land development 
business and Joe Is already a vice-president. Prob­
ably the next face you will see on TV following 
Valachi will be our Joe. Regardless, heartiest Con­
grats on the new position. The ED DEANS are 
living in Upper Montclalr, Ed received his law 
degree from Fordham and word has It that before 
it is all over he will make the Curleys, Kennedys 
and LaGuardias look like a bunch of amateurs. 
Remember, you who live or pass through Chicago, 

the first Monday of every month there is a clan 
luncheon at Boveri's on Lake Street. Just get m 
contact with JOHN BOVERI or FRANK HEN­
NESSEY at the Tribune regarding particulars. 
Usually meet around 12. Will easily be back in your 
office or on the road by 5. 
My reservoir of information is running dry. Please 

help me make It fluid. N. B.—Please remember In 
your daily prayers the father of our classmate TOM 
McNULTY, who died last September. 
From the Alumni Office: JAMES R. KENNEDY has moved from Norfolk. Va. to 1612 Heidom Ave., Westchester, III., and \velcomcd a new daughter, Alary Margaret, on June II. JOHN T. MURPHY received his MS this June from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. FATHER PASCHAL B.AUTE, O.S.B., has been appointed dean of student afT^rs at St. Leo College, St. Leo, Fla., and he Is also a Navy chaplain at­tached to the 4tli Marine Battalion in Tampa. St. Leo College has aspirations of becoming as well recognized as Notre Dame, for instance, according to the release. Our sympathy to Mar>- Ann and BURKE R. CUENY on the death of their son, Michael James on October 12 at the age of 17 mos. Capt. JEROME E. RUTHMAN has arrived at Htckam AFB, Hawaii, for assignment with a Mili­tary Air Transport Ser\'ice unit. TOM FORDYCE was mustered out of the Navy in July and is now a dentist in New Haven, Conn. LEE N. CLOUGH brought his wife and 4 kids back to South Bend where he'll be an agent for Lincoln National Life Ins. Co. ALBERT W. H. LUM Is now an English Instructor at Chamlnade College, Honolulu, Hau-ail. REX BELL JR. is following in the footsteps of his cowboy actor-gover­nor dad and his famous mother, Clara Bow, In his decision to take to the footlights. Hedda Hopper says, "Some of these daj's you'll be seeing Rex Bell Jr. on TV or in movies." ROBERT A. PRINDI­VILLE lias been named a general partner of Thom­son & McKinnon and will be with their New York 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 47 
office. MIKE STOREN, former Marine Corps cap­tain, was niiined as promotional and public relations director of the Baltimore Bullets. He will handle sll Bullet promotion including publicity, season ticket sales, advertising, special nights, pre-gamc and half-time show's, and public relations. JAMES 
L. GREEK has been named controller of the Pitts­burgh regional office of .-Mlstate Insurance Com­panies, and in July of tliis year Jim won the Mil­waukee region's award for top job performance and service. A member of the Milwaukee chapter of the American Marketing Association, he served as editor of their newsletter. June '62 lie received his MBA from Marquette U. 
1958 
1st I ^ Arthur L. Roulc, Jr 
4645th Support Squadron, 
Box 197 
Dniuth Air Force Base 
Duluth 14, Mmncsota 
At the risk of being tiresome, I must open this column with a much-too-familiar refrain—we need more ne%\-5. Surely many of you have items of interest such as additions to the family, new jobs, promotions, changes in locale, postgraduate degrees, or some similar matter. How about letting us share your good news? 
Just prior to this writing, our annual after-game reimion was held at the Morris Inn (following the Southem-Cal game). I regret ver>' much that I was unable to get away from Duluth for the ^veekend and attend the affair, since these events have always been vcrj- enjoyable. As yet I have received no reports from persons who did attend, so I can only *ay that I hope you all enjoyed the get-together. 
As the Erst item of news in this issue's column, we arc sincerely sorr^- to report that HARRY ODEM lost his father last June, ^\'c \\ish to extend our s^Tupathy to Harr%', and to ask you to remember Mr. Odem and his family in your prayers. 
GERRV PASTULA reports that as of April 1, 1963, he has been li\*ing in Colorado following a transfer to Ford Motor Company's Denver district tales office. Gerry is a business management analyst. On June 20th, Gerr^- and wife, Paula, became parents for the first time, welcoming daughter ifarv' Jo to the fold. Their new address: 148 Del Mar Circle, Apt- 21, Aurora, Colorado. 
BILL McKEEVER has moved to .Ashcvillc, Xorth Carolina, as head of the trading department. McCarley t Co., (member of the New York Stock Exchange). From tlie tenor of his letter it would appear tliat Bill is ver>' happy in his new location, as are his wife, Joyce, and two daughters, Deborah and Kathleen. The McKecvers arc expecting another child in the near future and are anticipating a halfback. Bill mentioned seeing JOHN RUSSO in New York just prior to leaving for .AshevU'.e. John travels for Cos-Cob, a firm dealing in women's sportswear. The McKcevcr's new address is 20F Edgewood Knoll, Asherille. N. C. 
PAUL UNDERKOFLER writes from Camp Pendleton, Calif., where he has been stationed in the legal office of the 1st Marine Division since July of 1962. Upon completion of his tour in December, 1964, he expects to return to Dallas to enter prix-atc practice. 
According to a note from JOE EMMITE, the Air Force has just acquired a batch of medics from the Class of '58. Among those presently under' going training at the School of Aerospace Medicine at Brooks AFB, Texas, are CAPTS. E.\LMITE, JOHN KENNEDY, BILL SCANLON and BOB LENAR; Joe will be assigned to Connally .AFB, Texas, U[>on completion of his training. 
A letter from Mrs. ROGER ELDRED inrorms us that the Eldreds arc living in Warren, Michigan. Roger is a research chemist (pol\-mcr rcscarcli) urith General Motors Research Laboratories. Roger receK'cd an M.S. in Chemistry* at N.D. just prior to accepting his present position with G.M. He and his wife Eleanore have a son, David John, and A daughter, Jtlary Clare. Further information offered by Mrs. Eldred is that BOB CAIOLA and his wife are living in Midland, Michigan, and as of last August were expecting the arri\-al of their third chad. Address of the Eldreds: 31322 Reid Drive, Warren, Michigan. 
JEM BERRY was married August 24 to Edithann Cooper of Birmingham, Michigan. Jim and bride are Ii\^g at l&M Fargo, Chicago. Among those in attendance at the nuptials were TOM O'RE­GAN. and RUSS HOPKINS. 
The new address listing for Mr. and ^Irs. GEORGE CONNOLLY is 980 Ha^vthomc Drive, I^ayette, California. 
JOE FERRONE is currently the medical officer on 

48 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
INFORMAL REUNION at the New York home of John Bundschuh was attended by (roughly l.-r. down the stairs) Alan Pando '53, BUI Dwyer '54, John Conors '54, Guery Becker '53, Frank Raith '54, Jack Mertens '54, Jack Brczette '54, Don Duffy '55, Joe Gallagher '54 (Law '56), Mike Ward '55, Fr. Tom Cady '41, C.S.C., and Bundschuh '54. 
the U.S.S. Fremont, whicli in St-ptembcr was under­going repairs and modernization in the Norfolk Nav-al Ship%-ard, Portsmouth, Va. Joe had just completed his internship in surgcrx- at Grace-New Haven Hospital, New Haven, Conn., in June of this year when the Na\-y called. He would welcome hearing from any classmates in the area. Address: Lt. J. D. Fcrrone, Jr., (MC) USNR, USS Fremont (APA-+4) c/o Fleet Post Office, Neu- York, N. Y. 
JACK SWXENEY'S wife, subbing for her busy husband, writes tliat Jack is in his fifth and last year of night law school at Loyola of Los .Angeles. He plans to take the bar exam next August, after which he hopes to practice in the L. A. area. Tlie Sweeneys have two children, Julie .Ann (2) and James Patrick (born in June). They have recently bought a new home in Canoga Park, Calif., located at 24131 Highlander Rd. Jack is working as a Contract Administrator for Ben dix-Pacific. 
One further note. Among those who wed recently was JOHN SENG, who took the big step last July. 
FATHER HESBURGH receives a fdlvcr medallion from Thomas L. Judge '57, marking Montana's territorial centennial and 75th anniversary as a state. Judge made the presentation on behalf of Montana C^vcmor Tim Babcock, who invited Notre Dame's president to the centennial cele­bration in 1964. 
Your secretary- spent a pleasant hour or two with John last August in Chicago, where John is cm-ployed by the Peoples Gas Co. as a statistical analyst. 
Many thanks to those who have taken the time to write. All others please take note. 
Since this is the last issue ot the year, may wish all of you A Very Happy Christmas and the best of cver>*thing in the New Year. 
From the Alumni Office: FATHER BRIAN J. EGAN, O.S.B., has relin­quished his post as president of St. Bernard College. Father Egan, who served as head of the college nearly 10 years, will continue in his priestly duties with the Benedictines. DICK LYNCH has signed his 1963 contract with the New York Giants. JAMES S. BUTCOFSKI graduated from Jefferson Medical College, Pliiladelphia, in June and will intern at Thomas M. Fitzgerald ilcrcy Hospital, Darby, Pa. MILO SOLOMITO, JR. received his M.S., nuclear engineering and science, from Rens­selaer Polytechnic Institute in June. JOHN BARRY BURNS has an M.D. from the Univ. of Vermont and RICHARD GEORGE CONSIDINE at the Penn. State Univ., received a master's in bacteri­ology. Dr. ROCK F. MARTEL has joined the Car^vin Co., North Haven, Conn., a division of the Upjohn Co., as senior research clicmist in Its department ot research and development, where he will investigate polymers and their applications in polyurethanes. He has several patents pending. ROBERT FUREY writes that he is employed in the Los Angeles office of the Service Bureau Corp. a wholly owned subsidiary of IBM, as a sales representative trainee. He said DON HAZELTON '59 recently completed the sales training program and received the monthly award as outstanding district salesman for June. 
R. MICHAEL M. AL\DDEN was placed on active Air Force duty as a captain and assigned to the 1611 .Air Transport Wing, McGuire AFB, N. J. Doctor Madden had been associated with Akron (Ohio) General Hospital before Uncle Sam called. Capt. NORMAN F. BLINSTRUB, after completing his orientation course for officers, has been assigned to the staff of the USAF hospital at Burderop RAF Station, England, as a physician. After being a soldier for two weeks Army Reserve 1st Lt. GERALD R. MAUER returned to his wife Joyce in Rocky River and the Higbce Co. in Cleveland. 
DR. JOSEPH T. SHERIDAN, after graduating last June from U. of Mich. School of Dentistry, has opened a dental office in Saginaw, Mich. Joe and wife. Bertha, have two sons and a daughter. MILO SOLOMITO received a master of science degree from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute last June. GORDON KOWA-CHENG CHEN received an MA in research from St. Louis U. last June. GEORGE BERNAT received his master's in busi­ness administration at the same time and place. 
Army Reserve 1st Lt. GERALD R. MAURER finished being a soldier after two weeks this summer and returned to Joyce at 2603 Lakcvlcw Ave., Rocky River, O. He is employed by The Higbce Co., in Cleveland. 
Our s>-mp3thy to Mr. and Mrs. MARTIN VIN­CENT MUNSTER on the death of their 4/2­ycar-old son. 
1959 
Dennis M. Nead 6121 Robison Rd. Cincinnati, Ohio 
BILL BRELSFORD was awarded a teaching felloi^-ship in historj- at Creighton University in Omaha and started teaching there September 21st. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN FRANKLIN HAYWARD announced the birth of their first child, Elizabeth Shea, on July 11. 
LOUIS MANZO \\'as married to Miss Ann Marie Bordonaro on Saturday the 24th of August at St. Mary of the Angels Church in Olcan, New York. 
NORM ODYNIEC was married to Miss Mary Fitippa Scafuro on Saturday the 22nd of June in Allendale, New Jersey. Norm should be in his internship at tliis time, but I do not know the hospital. (Washington General, while Mary nursed at Georgetou-n. Ed.) 
JIM DORSEY no\v' has a regular commission and plans to make it his career. Presently he is at­tending New Mexico State University working towards a master's degree in mechanical engi­neering. Jim has three daughters Val (4J4)» Pat 
(3) and Betty Lou (I/3)­JOHN HOL&IES and his wife, Judy, recently welcomed their first child, Cynthia Maria, born April 20, '63. John is working on his doctorate at Michigan State University. 

Lt. DONALD J. MURRAY spent 4 years at McGill University in Montreal, Quebec, where he received hb doctor of dental surgery degree in June; he is now beginning a 2-year tour as a Naval lieutenant at the U. S. Naval Clinic, 205 
I Park Avenue, Brooklyn, New York. CUARENCE HUTCHES recently moved to Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and is working in the traflic dcpart­
•^ mcnt of the Quaker Oats Co. While working with Quaker Oats in Chicago, he had the opportunity ^ to study night courses in transportation and traflic management at Xorthwcstcrn. JOE MAIER is also with Quaker Oats, Chicago, in premium promotion. JIM BAZANY, with Murphy, Lenoir and Quinn in Chicago, was married last December 2nd to a 
r nurse (name unknown) who worked at Walter Reed Hospital. TO.M MURRiW is working in Dcs Moines with an insurance company. 
k DUNCAN LaVIGNE and wife' Fayc announce the birth of their second child, Patricia Marv*, 
^ born August 12, in Huntington, W. Va. BILL DOWDALL became the proud dad of Mark Patrick Dowdall on June 26t!i. BiU is doing well with the Federal Market Company, a fairly active retail market chain in Western, N. Y. JOHN A. FOCHTMAN received his doctor of medicine degree from the Stritch College of Medi­cine, Loyola University, June 11. John will intern at Cook County Hospital for a year, starting last July 1st. CHUCK QUEENAN would you please drop me a line concerning the details of the fund you have in mind for DICK HORSFALL. Received a most welcome letter from WAYNE FAIST and, as I often do, I will merely quote his 
^ letter: "Upon graduation I took a job in Chicago which permitted me to look for something in the field of international marketing. I was fortunate in gelling my foot in the door to this field, and am now employed by Rust-OIcum Corporation in Evanston, III., as an overseas correspondent. In the fall of '59 I married Renec Schneider and thus far have been blessed with three children—all girls. I ran into BARRETT GLIXNER when taking the entrance test for graduate school in July. He is out of the Na\*>* now and is employed by IBM. His intentions arc to begin work on his master's in business at Chicago University. Also ran into TOM (SENATOR SAM) CAHILL, who was work­ing in Chicago this summer between his first and second year of graduate school in business at HaP.ard. JERRY BARKER and his wife (married early in August, '63) visited us last month and we had a good chance to discuss old times. BILL FLYNN and wife Patsy are still in the Canal Zone and hope to come north at reunion time in June, '&4. TOM FLEMING and wile Naneltc arc re­siding in Kansas City and plan to meet Renec and me for the Southern California game." Thank you, Wayne, for your interest and don't wait long to write again. 
WARREN GRIENENBERGER has attended the University of Michigan since '59 and received his 
LL.B. this June and his M.B.A. this August. His summer has been spent along with his last 2 business courses in studying for the Illinois Bar exam and boning up on some French. 
GEORGE ROSS, NEIL BALL and JACK McNAMARA were seen the Sunday following the Purdue game in Frencli Lick, Ind. Neil is with an advertising agency* in New York; George and Jack's endeavors I am unaware of. 
Tlie Class of '59 wishes to express sincere sympathy to JOSEPH MEINERT on the death of his father this past March 5. 
From the Alumni Office: WALTER R. BERNARD, JR., has been named super\-isor of the salaried personnel unit for Ford Motor Co., in Cincinnati. Walt and Sue were ex­pecting their first child in September. JOHN C. O'BRIEN, M.A. and Ph.D. from N.D., has been named an assistant professor of economics at the University of Dayton. Dr. O'Brien, formerly of Hamilton, Lanarkshire, Scotland, has taught in Scotland, at N.D. in Canada, and at the Univ. of British Columbia. During WW II he was a member of the British Army and served in several European countries before being taken prisoner of the Germans in mid-1941. 
EDWARD D. MURPHY has joined the General Electric Research Laboratory's patent lawyer staff as a patent agent specializing in general physics. Ed, his wife, and their 2-year-oId daughter live in Latham, New York. RONA1J5 E. MELICHAR joined the law firm of Obear & Ovcrhober in Delphi, immediately after being admitted to the bar before the Indiana State Supreme Court. M.AX 
D.VVID L. SCHWARTZ, '59 For the Astronauts, GhostwTitcr in the Sky-
When the television cameras turned to the Cooper family during Gordon Cooper's orbital flight, a young civilian could be seen with Mrs. Cooper and her daughters. He was also seen with them on their flight to Honolulu to meet Major Cooper. For more than a year at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston, Te.x.j David L. Schwartz has been the voice of the Project Mercury Astronauts in their articles, speeches and public pronouncements. 
Since joining the Manned Spacecraft 

W. BAU.MAX attended the National Shade Tree Conference in Toronto this summer. 
BOB WILLIAMS and ROGER BRESLIN were ushers and ERNIE WOOD the best man when NORM ODYNIEC married his nurse. JI.M KEE­GAN sa>*s in regard to marriage, "Believe me, it is not a bad life at all.*' He ^x-as married on Sept. 21. GEORGE VANDER VENNEL, JR. married a St. Mar>*'s N.D. girl and now living in Chicago. JACK McGRATH completed his active military service with the Army Tank Automotive Command in Detroit, was married August 3rd, is now em­ployed by management consultants in Cleveland and is living in Shaker Hights, Ohio. JOHN F. CHRIS­TENSEN Is now Maintenance Engineer for six coun­ties with the Florida State Road Department. John and his wife have welcomed their first child into the family, daughter Ann Elizabeth. 
AUGUST VERHOFF received his M.S.A.E. from Princeton Univ. WILLIA.M H. McCULLOUGH and ROBERT A. PUTNAM were awarded M.B.A.*s in June from Harx^ard Univ. Also at IIar\'ard in June JAMES F. HAYES received liIs LL.B. and RICHARD J. SAMPSON received his M.D. 
Army 1 /Lt. JAMES E. SCHREINER, in Germany since January of this year, completed a conversa­tional German language course in mid-August. His wife has joined him in Germany. Capt. HARVEY JOSEPH FREM is stationed with the Army in Greece. ALFRED O. MYERS, JR. is Supply/Dis­bursing Officer on the USS Harwood based at May-port, Fla., and on its second Mediterranean cruise. Al received his M.B.A. from the Graduate school of business, Univ. of Chicago. 
ROBERT FUREY '58 wrote «s that he is em­ployed in the Los Angeles office of the service Bureau Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of the IBM as a sales representative trainee. He says DON HAZELTON recently completed the sales 
staff on October 1, 1962, David has served as the information services officer for the Public Affairs Office. The job requires handling information requests on all phases of MSG work, and remaining in close touch with the latest developments in manned space flight. In addition, David serves as advisor and writer for MSG man­agement in the preparation and presenta­tion of public speeches. 
A native of the Buckeye State, David was bom in Mansfield, Ohio, in 1937. He re­ceived a liberal arts degree in journalism from Notre Dame*s department of com­munications arts. After graduation, he ac­cepted an ROTC commission and spent two years in the Army as assistant information officer at Fort Meade, Maryland. Dis­charged as a first lieutenant in 1961, he began his work in the aerospace field, join­ing the staff of the Army Missile Command in Huntsvillc, Alabama. He served as pub­lic-relations officer for the Pershing missile system before being assigned to the astro­nauts. 
The N-AS-A Manned Spacecraft Center has been responsible for Project Mercury since its inception. MSG has the responsibil­ity for developing manned spacecraft, for training space-flight crews to man these craft, and for conducting space-flight mis­sions. The Center is presently engaged in conducting Projects Mercury, Gemini and Apollo for the development of space-flight technology, for the acquisition of knowl­edge, and for the use of man in exploring space for the generation of better under­standing of the universe in which wc live. The Center is one of several research- and space-flight Centers within the board N.\SA organization and frequently calls upon other NAS.A. facilities, government agencies, pri­\'atc industry and educational institutions for support in its programs. 
David is single and resides in Houston. His hobbies are golfing, tennis, and bowling. 
training program and received the monthly award as outstanding district salesman for June. 
THOMAS JOSEPH HALUGAN JR. received a Doctor of Medicine degree from the University of Vermont. DAVID E. GLOW and JOSEPH C HOHL were graduated from JefTerson Medical Col­lege of Philadelphia in June. Dave will intern at Maumee Valcy Hospital, Toledo, O., and Joe will intern at Akron General Hospital In Akron, Ohio. 
Lt. ROBERT JOSEPH YOUNG, who got an 

M.S. in mechanical engineering in 1961 at N.D. teamed up with one of his profs, DR. K. T. Y/\NG, on an ASME paper, "Effect of Small Cross Flow and Surface-Temperature Variation on Lami­nar Free Convection Along a Vertical Plate," printed in the June '63, Journal of Applied Mcchuiics. Bob*s at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton. Ohio. 
BERNIE FLIGER, 2205 42nd NW, Washington, D.C., formerly of Detroit, stopped in at the Alumni Office while in town for a game. He has just com­pleted six months active duty in the Army reserve and is now an Insurance underwriter with Govt. Employees Insurance Co. Bernle said LARRY FLYNN, 20909 Ronan, .Midland, Mich., is with Dow Chemical and u-as married last Dec. 29 to Maureen. JAMES A. DONOVAN spent the summer at USS Corporations's research Laboratory in Monroeville, Pa. He and his ^v•Ife Patricia live at 5343 Waterford St., Pittsburgh 24, Pa., and Jim is presently attending grad school at Carnegie Institute of Technology, where he hopes to graduate next year. 
SR. MARY ANGELE HOTZE, S.S.N.D., one of our co-edj, received an MA In research from St. Louis U. in June. JOHN C. ROURKE and CYRIL 
T. SPELTZ were ordained In June as foreign mission priests of Holy Cross. This fall they will depart for the missions of Uganda. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
1960 
John F. Gcicr 1045 Linden Ave. Wilmcttc, Illinois 
With the help of a pot of coffee, nicotine, and a 
bottle of those tension-reducing drugs, commonly 
Icnou-n as tranquilizers^ your scribe is making at­
tempts to meet another deadline for the publication 
of this column. Many thanks to those who have 
ViTitten. yo u have made the following possible. 
1/Lt. JACK COLE writes from Ft. Eustis, Va., where he is stationed with the U. S. Army, as are his wife, Sandra, and their two-year-old son, Grcgorv-John. Jack sa>-s BILL WTJITE, who has since been released from active dut>', scr\*ed as his commanding officer for a short time. 
Our sinccrest 5>*mpatliy is extended to classmate TONY ODEM whose father, Brian S. Odcra (LL.B. '17), died June 5; and to JOSEPH M. KRUPP, Jr., whose father died in ^fay. 
My old friend and roomate TOM GIBXEY is residing in the Detroit area where he's an account­ant with Ford Motor Co. Tm told that Tom and his wife Beth have two tax deductions. .. . A letter from the father of JOE COOPER brings good ti­dings. Joe, who is serving as 2/Lt, with the ^^arine Corps in Lcjeune, X. C-, was married in November to the former Judith Eva. Scwcll . . . and JACK FEENEY and Joanne Wnte of Jersey City were married last year. 
BILL POTTER, who happily paid 8c postage to receive the latest issue of the ALUMNUS, claims this was the first copy he'd seen since graduation. I suspect his two and some years of nomadic exist­ence *vith the Naw can explain it. At any rate. Bill will be a regular subscriber to our magazine now that he has a permanent address in Washington, 
D. C. Besides working for the Department of Labor there. Bill spends his evenings in the stacks of the Georgetown Law Library*. . . . Also at Georgetown is law student CLAY SNIITH who expects to grad­uate at the end of tlie current semester. 
The main trend in the "Diaper Market'* is upward and We have the following dependable indications to prove it. . . . Jennifer L>Tin, the daughter of Julie and BOB DINI, arrived July 9 . . . Carol and JIM WOLF have a daughter, Lisa Marie, born in August. .. . Anne Elizabeth, a baby girl, was bom to Prbdlla and CHUCK S.AWICKI, April 18. . . . Mr. and Mrs. SKIP E^\STERLY are the happy parents of a daughter, Mary Chris. . . . Ann Mary, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. "SA\'E" SAMUEL­SOX, w*as bom June 22 . . . and Mr. and Mrs. 
TOM KEEGAX announce the birth of a baby girl, 
Bridget Marie, July 25. 
Congratulations to ED (A) KENNEDY, who married the former Mary Eileen Clark of Chicago; and to '60 grad DON KRISTINIK, who exchanged nuptial vows witli Ellen Cabler of Houston, Texas, 
July 27. 
'Wc now Iiave news of the whereabouts of BRUCE BABBITT. KEN MURPHY, who is Product De­velopment Supervisor for Colgate-Palmolive Inter­national in Latin America, recently met Bruce in Venezuela. Writes Ken, *'A\liiIe in Caracas on busi­ness, I was at the home of a friend of mine when a jeep came roaring up the street. A tall, lanky guy jumped out, and in passing, I mentioned that he looked familiar. Tumed out to be BRUCE B.\B­BITT, who is ^vorking in Caracas, Venezuela, with the Accion organization, a peace-corps-t>*pe group which is managed and run by local sources.** Ken also wTites us of the happy news that he and his ^rifc, Modesta, are the parents of a baby boy, Douglas John. . . . We arc grateful. Ken, for your sending along info on the following. . . . SAM RIVERS P.ATOUT HI is studying at a seminar>* in Houston, Texas. . . . PAT 0*DALY is in mcd school in New York, and he and his wife, Denisc, have two sons. . . . JIM DRISCOLL is working for a construction firm in D.C. . . . AIIKE SHIP­MAN is at N.D. studying for a doctorate in chemi­cal engineering . . . and Mr. and Mrs. BOB BOWEX' and their two sons are living in Detroit. 
I propose that a N. D. club be chartered at the accounting firm of Arthur Andersen & Co., of Chi­cago—as Alumni BOB BENNETT, "BEETLE*' LA MONTAGNE, and ED (A) KEN*NEDY arc employed there. . . . Living in Rochester, N. Y., are grads *'SAVE" SAMUELSON (who is secretary of the N.D, club there) and TOM KEEGAN. While "Save" is an adman for Rochester's DEMO­CRATIC CHRONICLE, Tom is a cost estimator for the tool engineering department of Delco Ap­pliance, General Motors. Tom's also studying at the U. of Rochestcr*s Graduate School of Business. . . . ED McKEOWN is a partner in McKeown-Phalin Chevrolet, Inc., located in Glen Ellyn, III. . . . Mr. and Mrs. BILL BOLAND and tlieir son Shane Stephen arc living in the D.C. area where Bill is employed with the Trane Air Conditioning Co. . . . and DAVE HURD has joined the coacliing staff of the Fighting Irish! 
Ea route to the Opium Dens of the Orient, Ensign >URTY TOPPING included a stopover here in Chicago recently. On hand to greet him at the airport •were yours truly and classmate PAUL PRIEBE. Marty has been given a twelve-month as­
signment in Seoul, Korea. I*m sure his tour of duty there with the Public Information Office of the United Nations joint command is abounding with political and military intrigue. MORE ITEMS OF INTEREST. . . . DON KRISTINIK is a Project Engineer at the Monsanto Chemical Chocolate Bayou plant near Houston, Texas. . . . JlXf HUTTON, who UTitcs of his marriage last year, is nearing the end of his two-year hitch with Uncle Sam. Jim has been assigned to tlic army band at Redstone Arsenal in HuntswUc, Alabama. . . .SKIP Ei\STER­LV is employed with the Department of Labor as wage and hour investigator. . . . BOB DINI, now a member of the Illinois State Bar /Vssociation, is a law clerk for a justice of the Illinois Apellate Court in Chicago. . . . TIM McGRATH was mar­ried to the former Jane O'Connor of Chicago. . . GUS SHERIDAN received a degree in law from De Paul University last year. . . . DON CURLOVIC recently received his masters in mathematics at Washington University in St. Louis and is continuing graduate work there. . . . After a year of higli­school teaching in Miami, Florida, BILL HE^XPHY has moved to Texas, where he's commanding the Headquarters Squadron, AGlst Bomb AVing, at the Air Force Base in Amarillo. 
From the Alumni Office: EUGENE T. KOZOL, an employee of IBM since Sept., *6I, has been promoted to senior associate engineer. PETER A. RYAN, JR. has been appoint­ed assistant controller at the H. & A. Sclmer, Inc., Elkhart (musical instruments). Peter and Lorraine arc living in South Bend and have a daughter, Erin Ellen. JAMES P. TURNER completed his Peace Corps projects in July. He has joined the faculty of the Atcneo de Manila Univ. (a Jesuit institution) and is teaching history and political science. At the same time he is enrolled there to study Asian and Philippine histor>*, planning to stay at least an ad­ditional two years. He said, "My best regards to my fellow graduates. It would be most appreciated if you would inform them of my location through the ALUMNUS." P. O. Box 154, Manila, Philip­pines. ROBERT L. HORN for the past two years has been a teaching assistant and taking graduate studies in the dept. of English, ND. He is now a graduate assistant at the Univ. of Wisconsin, while studying for hb Ph.D. EUGENE F. JORD.\N, formerly employed at the Probate Court and with a law firm in St. Louis, has joined the staff of Congressman Thomas Curtis as administrative assist­ant. 
LEONARD A. MRx\CHEK tied the knot with Kathy Cobb, fashion designer and model of ^^'hite 

PROF. DANIEL PEDTKE M-as honored by the Glee Club and alumni over the ND.-UCLA weekend for hb 25 years as director of the Club. Multiple ceremonies included a fall concert, a half-time tribute with the NJ). Band playing his music, a Communion breakfast and the party pictured here. At left a puzzled "Dean" Pedtke listens while nephew Hciman Pcdtkc of the DePauI music faculty reads a "distinguished alumnus" citation, an award made previously to only three DcPaul men including Metropolitan Opera star Giorgio Tozzi; reunion organizer BUI Sahm *51 waits in the background to deliver ^t s from 300 alumni and students, a commemorative plaque, huge autographed poster and $1200 check. At right it becomes a real family affair for Dan, wife Helen, older brother Otto and four Pedtke children. Cheering (backgroimd from left) arc Glee Club Prnident Jim Egan '64, reunion treasurer Jim Etling '52, Prof. Herman Pedtke (Otto Pedtke's son), and John Laughlin '48 <^ the Alumni Office. 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
J 
LT. ROBERT B. SIENKO '60 is shouTi directing the successful launch of a re­search vehicle at Cape Canaveral in Sep­tember. Bob served as project officer for Thor booster systems, responsible for overall booster checkout from arrival at the Cape to launch. The test was the first of six to develop a spacecraft for reentering the atmosphere as a pilot-driven glider. 
Stag, N. Y. City, at the main altar of St. Patrick's Cathedral on June 22, while EDWIN SPIEGEL and PHIL WELTER stood by as attendants. He is teaching mathematics and coaching at Bumsvillc High in suburban Minneapolis. 
LAAVRENCE H. KYTE, JR., MARTIN V. ROACH, WILLLVM R. MAPTHER and LAW­RENCE O. TURNER JR. have received their LL.B.'s from the University of Virginia this past June. Congratulations. 
SHELDON M. FRvVNZ and MAURO J. PANDO, candidates for the priesthood, recently completed a vcar of University studies at St. Joseph Hall, N-D. 
D.WID S. STOELLER of Glenvicw. III., was commissioned a 2nd Lt. upon graduation from Air Force Officer Training School and has been as­signed to Kecsler AFB, Miss., for training in com­munications. Lt. Stocller was selected for ofHcer training through competitive examinations with other college graduates. 2nd Lt. WILIAM J. HEAPHY of Bridgeport, Conn., after scn-ing as administmtive oHiccr for the *161st Field Maintenance Squadron, Amarillo AFB, Texas, has assumed command of Headquarters Squadron, 416th Bombardment Wing, there. Army 1st Lt. FR/VNCIS X. DISTEL, regular­ly stationed near Mainz, Germany, partidpatcd in a practice missile shoot at White Sands Missile Range, N. M., late in September. Army PFC MATTISI^VU M. PLONSKI, stationed near Vicen­za, Italy, since October, '62, participated in a four-day N.ATO field training exercise in Northern Italy in September. Ist Lt. Dx\NIEL P. STAN'TON, JR. was moved by the army from Fort Sill, Okla. to Vietnam in August. He is helping advise the armed forces of the Republic of Vietnam on train­ing, use of equipment and tactical operations. After his promotion to Specialist Fourth Class, R.\LPH 
R. D.ANNA has been assigned as an electrical engi­neer, at the Army's Picatinny Arsenal's pyro­icclinics research laborator>-. Picatinny Arsenal is the Army's principal research and engineering center for ammunition and weapons and has developed u-arheads for some of the countr>'*s most formidable nuclear and non-nuclear missiles. Pvt. ROBERT 
J. LEONE, Oak Park, 111., is stationed with the 287th military police in West Berlin. He recently was selected to represent his company In small-bore rifle competition. 
RICHARD CORNELL IMMING and PAUL MICHAEL SHERIDAN became bachelors of laws at DcPaul U. on June 6. 
1961 
Nick Palihmch 34 Dartmouth Road West Orange, N. J. 
The middle of October at this ^vriting, and I am still Irjing to recover from the "great Los Angeles tragedy" that befell my team from the Bronx. How­ever, the events of the past twenty-four hours have done mucli to soothe my condition. After the great victory over Southern California I can*t help but wonder if, but for just six very small points, this might have been the year we had all been waiting for so long. 
Over Labor Day weekend I took a trip to Char­lottesville, Va., to participate as an usher in the wedding of BERNIE DOBR/\NSKI and Miss Carol Wood. The couple hone>Tnooncd in Washington, D.C., and then returned to Charlottesville, where Bemie will complete his final year at the University-of Virginia Law School. For those of you who can't believe that the greatest of all "Polish lovers" has finally met his match, I can only say, "I speak nothing but the truth." 
A special note of congratulations to three of our classmates currently pursuing a career in law. First to JOHN KEHGAN, who was elected President of the Georgetown School of Law Student Bodv. Second to BOB FISHER, who has academically reached the top of his class at Georgetown after two years of study. Last but not least to DAVE McCANN, who is currently among the top ten of his class at Fordham and who was just recently awarded a partial scholarship for hb final year of study. 
Caught in the act: Mr. and Mrs. DON RIGALI picking out a rug in Macy's, New York. Little docs he know that if he had gone across the street to Gimbel's he would never have made this column. Don and his w-ife arc currently living in Queens, New York, recently having been transferred to the New York office of the Morse Chain Company. Don is working as a sales engineer for the firm. BOB LORENZ is now in La Paz, Bolivia, where he will be working for the next two years. TIM FLEM­MING received his M.B./V. from the University of .\rizona in May of 1963 and is now employed as a planning engineer for General D>'namics in San Diego, California. Received a note from JACK WTHTAKER and learned that he is on the threshold of marriage with the former Queen of our Senior 
@> 
Kt^ 
J 
.'/• 

TIMOTHY K. HINCHEY, JR. '61, Lt. (jg) USNR, has received the Navy and Marine Corps Medal from President Kennedy with a citation for "heroic conduct" in a sea rescue on Oct. 7, 1962. Serving aboard the USS Navasota off Japan, llm saw a crewman injured and washed over­board by heavy seas, dived in after him and withstood pounding waves until he could attach a safety line to the victim. Navy Secretary Korth praised his "inspiring and determined efforts," his "courage and perseverance in the face of strong grinds, heavy seas and repeated immersions which left him at the point of almost complete exhaustion." Tim has been studying at the Naval Post­graduate School in Monterey, California. 
JAMES A. BOGLE, assbtant professor of political science, studies a model of an Iron Curtain guard tower on a recent visit to Radio Free Europe headquarters in Alunich, Germany. (For more about RFE, see "Spodight" feature on William 
G. Mahoney '47 in this issue, describing the work of the private, nonprofit network.) 
Ball, Miss Linda Da\-is. The date was set for October 12, 1963. Jack has been working for the Whitaker Cable Co. since receiving his M.B.A. from the University of Kansas in June of 1963. TOM PAULICK has returned from his Peace Corps as­signment in Chile and is currently in the Chicago area. Dorothy and GEORGE LESMCK arc now making their home in Brooklyn, New York, along with the third member of their family, George Jr. George, Sr., is now in the field of merchandising, working as a buyer for A. and S. in Brooklyn, New York. 
I received a bit of news from the number one man, MIKE "JU,\N" BRENNAN. From what I could get out of his literary' stylings, he is now serv­ing out his Army obligation and at the same time coaching the Cadet Varsity in baseball at West Point. Looking for^vard to seeing the big man at the Syracuse game in New York. 
Lt. TIM HINCHEV was married on August 31, 1963 to Miss Nancy Walsh. The ceremony took place in Evergreen Park, Illinois. In the same month of August, MIKE CURTIN took the big step with Miss Ann Grady, the marriage being held in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, Indiana. Shortly after receiving his ^I.B.A. at ^Vharton School of Finance, Philadelphia, in December of 1962, BOB BRADLEY and Mimi Clark, St. Mary's Class of 1961, were married in Oak Park, Illinois. After re­turning from their honeymoon in the South Pacific, Bob entered the Anny where he is currently ser\'ing out his active dut>' at Ft. Leonard Wood. LARRY NxVYMIK and Carol Jean Tabone were married on -May 18, 1963. 
Lt. BRL\N REG,\N (USMC) and his wife Sharon arc still stationed at Camp Lejeune, North Caro­lina. Recently the couple was blessed with a future Notre Dame halfback, Douglas Patrick. If he doesn't make it with that name, no one will. Lt. RAY KELLY earned his *'wings" as an air observer with the Marine Corps at Camp Pendleton, Cali­fornia. Shortly thereafter he announced his engage­ment to Mary Foley, a graduate of ^farymount College in Manhattan. JIM TWOHY is stationed in San Diego on the U.S.S. Calvert, serving out his military obligation as a Lt. JG. On August 10, he was married to Elizabeth Berg in Portland, Oregon. TRACY OSBOURNE, DICK HENDRICKS and RICK REYNOLDS were all members of the wed­ding party. Other Class of '61 graduates stationed in the area are Lt. JG. GEORGE GEE, serving on the U.S.S. Monticello, LT. JG. JOE SCWVARTZ on the Snomomish County, LT. JG. ED GEI5EL­MAN and LENNY BLUM on the Seminole, and LT. JG. ED CHEW, now on a destroyer, the Hopewell. 
TERRY FLYNN is now a full time member of research staff at Ohio State University, with his eye set on a Ph.D. in the not-too-distant future. GEORGE GORE is embarking upon bis final year of law at Western Reserve. Last year George 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 51 
was a member of the National Moot Court Team and chainnan of the Moot Court Board. This year he was elected president of the Student Bar Asso­ciadon. JOHN WALSH wU also go into his final year of law at ^Vestc^l Rescrxe. PETE GLOVXA is still at Cleveland Marshall Law School in Ohio. MIKE STEPANEK is doing very well at Notre Dame and >%'as one of the four finalists in the Notre Dame Law School Moot Court Competition. GREG HELLRUNG at Catholic University re­cently had an article published in the Law Review. 
My next door neighbor from Pangbom Hall, CHARLIE CAYCE is stationed at Fort Eustis, Virginia, as a 1st Lt. in the Allied Li^on, Office of the U.S. Army Transportation School. Charlie will end his tour of active duty this Fcbruar>-. His roommate JAY KILROY is stationed in Washington with the Army Intelligence Corps and is also sched­uled for release in February. Charlie is engaged to Kathr>Ti Holmes with a wedding planned some­time around August of next year. ViS'CE N.-\SO is scr\'Ing his militar>' obligation at Ft. Hayes, in Columbus, Ohio. JOHN BRAUN, who is now at Ft. Dcvins, Mass., was married last June to Joyce Blaid of Reading, Pa. 
From the Alumni Ofiice: TERENCE F. SHEA has received his M.S. from the State University of Iowa, and ALBERT J. PERINI received his M.B.A. from the University of Virginia. JOHN J. COLLIGAN has been promoted to senior assooatc engineer witli the IBM Company and is living in Endwcll, N. Y. THOM.AS MAR­CINL\K, after completing graduate studies at Iowa State University has returned to the South Bend area and is employed by Bendix Products Aerospace Division as an engineer. HAROLD F. BOERSXLV, JR., candidate for the priesthood, recently completed a year of University studies at St. Joseph Hall, N.D. THOMAS P. BRENN.'^N pronounced perpetual vows in the So­ciety of Jesus on September 8 at MiUord Novitiate, Milford, O. He will spend the next two years at Milford College in liberal arts studies. GLENN T. SEABORG, LL.D-, Atomic Energ>­Commission chairman, delivered the dedicatory- ad­dress for the dedication of the new Radiation Re­search BIdg., N.D. Campus, September 1. BRIAN J. SULLWAN has been promoted to 1st Lt. at Fort Hood, Tex., where he is executive ofiicer of Company B., 2nd Battalion of the 1st Armored Division's 81st Armor. Lt. Sullivan is also associated with the Herbert A. Sullivan In­surance Agency in Worcester, Mass. Dr. MICHAEL 

F. SEHY of Efiingham, III., who was recently ac­tivated as a 2nd Lt. in the Air Force Medical Scr\'ice, has been given instruction In specialized aerospace medical subjects and has been assigned to the staff at HoIIoman AFB, N. M. to practice as an optometrist. 1st Lt. JOHN L. RUPPEL, JR. of Rochester, N. Y., after completing advanced na\^gator-bombardicr courses at Mather .\FB, Calif, and following sur\i\*al and specialized aircrew training at other bases, will be assigned as a B-52 Stralofortrcss navigator-bombardier at Dyess AFB, Texas. 
Lt. (j.g.) STEVE SCHARFENBERG WTotc in August that he was on the pre-commissioning detail of the guided missile frigate U.S.S. England. The powerful new ship should be placed in service about Christmas. 
THO.MAS G. PAULICK, a Peace Corps volun­tecr, has returned home after two years in Rancagua, Chile, with the feeling the Chileans helped him as much as he helped them. Tom taught history and geography to 17- to 20-year-old men on a grade school level. He abo was in charge of the physical ed program. Tom received a fellowship at U. of Pittsburgh and plans to study public administration in urban affairs this fall. He said, *'I would like to return some day on my own to visit the many good friends I have there (in Chile) and if I had to decide again, I would join the Peace Corps." 
THOMAS E. MARGRAVE, JR. received his 

M.S. from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute last June. 
Law Class of 1961 
John N. Mordand Attorney at Law 202 Fresh Bldg. 119 East Second St. Ottumwa, Iowa 
LAW CLASS OF 1961 

I regret to give you the news of the death of Marilyn Phelps who passed a^vay in Dixon, Illinois, on October 6, 1963. Marti)!! is surx-ived by our dass­
52 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
mate JIM PHELPS, and son, John, age two. 
Our class was represented at the funeral by ED 
HARBIG, TOM McNISH and wife, Joyce, HENRY 
DIXON, and Mary and I. JIM will appreciate 
your prayers for the repose of her soul. 
Got a newsy letter from JOHN COFFEY, who 
will be married to Patricia Dowd on October 19, 
in Chicago. John and his new bride will be liring 
in Coronado, California, until early 1965, where he 
is Base Legal Officer in the Navy. John also wrote 
that JOHN PL.\TTNER was named "Soldier of the 
Month" at Fort Irwin last spring and will be out 
of the service in November, and back in Chicago. 
He also wrote that ED BURKE is a recent father. 
MIKE ROSE who is now at 901 Wilder Building, 
Rochester 5, New York, sent mc a clipping from 
the Rochester paper, where he flunked out on his 
political debut by a scant nineteen votes, when he 
ran in the democratic primar\' for the office of 
Super\-isor. Mike notes that it is ver>' appropriate 
that I happen to be in the "FRESH" Building. 
I also heard that DICK BARTSCH b now practic­
ing with CLARENCE RUDDY in Aurora, Illinois, 
and that he and w'ltcj Rosic, have a five-week-old 
baby. 
SOAPY ^VEBBER gives a new home address as 
2822 Mackinaw St., Saginaw, Michigan. His law 
office is at 613 N. Granger St.. Saginaw, Michigan. 
SOAPY told mc that CHUCK ROBISON is now 
City Attorney in Albion, Michigan, and also has 
his own law office. 
I hope to hear from more of you in the future. 
1962 
Terrcnce AfcCarthy 23420 WclUngton Mt. Clements, Afich. 
Tliis article couples the old with the new. Tlie old is information \%-rittcn for a previous article wliich was misplaced prior to publication, the new being more recent information. My magic quill please. . . . 
Holy Cross Seminarian C^VRL EBEY spent a month in California before returning to the novi­tiate. He wrote that DAN KENNEY is now in South Carolina after spending time in Greece and France with the Navy. We hear reports that JIM BL:\CK is now stationed in Germany. JIM (.MARDI GRAS) SMITH has finished sdiool at Boston University and entered the Army in July. FRANK DUNHAM now finds himself stationed at Fort Rudier in Alabama. 

Congratulations to MIKE THORNBURY and his bride, the former Kathleen Ilarlett, who were mar­ried on June 15th in St. Michad's Church, Findlay, Ohio. GEORGE MURPHY receiver his Master of Arts in English from N.D. and has been awarded a 21-month full scholarship to study at the Univ. of Hawaii's famed East-West Center. George plans to work towards his Master of Fine Arts Degree in drama and theatre, study tlie Japanese language and dramatic literature and spend a minimum of 6 months in Japan. 
Our sincere sympathy is expressed to the parents 
and friends of BERNARD J. O'CALLAGHAN. 
Bemic died last February; and certainly he will 
be remembered in the hearts and prayers of his 
dassmates. FATHER THOMAS J. 0*DONNELL 
offered a special Mass for Bcmie on the campus. 
Congratulations to Lt. and Mrs. JOHN MADI­
CAN on the birth of John Patrick last May 10. 
The Madtgans arc presently stationed at Ft. Eustis, 
Virginia. 
TOM QUINN was married this past summer in 
Toledo, Ohio. TERRY McaARTHY married Sand­
ra Stock! Aug. 3 in Mt. Clemens, Mich. DAN 
KRALIK, RICH NUGENT and ROGER HARVEY 
were on hand to add to the happy occasion. JIM 
McC-VBE and Gail Stelzor were married on Sept. 7 
in Weston, Massadiusctts, and will live on ^faurice 
.Avenue in Missoula, Montana. 
JIM HOOVER is working in Chicago for Con­
tinental Casualty Co.; engaged last Christmas, 
Jim planned on marriage in a year. JOHN GUEN­
IN and JIM CAREY expected to be released from 
the Coast Guard in June. DAVE WIGTON is with 
Kimberly-Clark in Milwaukee, and he and his wife 
were blessed with their first baby this past summer. 
KARL HEYE and his wife happily announce the 
birth of their second child at the same time. 
While I'm on this wonderful subject of babies, a 
few more congratulations arc in order: 2nd Lt. 
PAT SHERIDAN and wife. Jane, welcomed their 
first in May; the JLM FISHERS of Indianapolis had 
their first baby last spring; 2nd. Lt. PETE ^LA­
LONEY and wife, Jane, had an addition to their 
lives in May; congratulations and good luck at Ft. 
Benning, Ga. ^fy good friends Janet and ROGER 

H^VRVEY were blessed with a baby, Roger Patrick, 
in July. Roger is in his second year at Indiana 
U. grad school, and lie wrote that his former room­mate RICK R^VSTATTER, is tearing up at Virginia. Tlic BOB HAULENS have a baby giri. Bob is in his 2nd year at N.D. Law School. 
Tliere were some other summer nuptials im­pending but unconfirmed. JOHN TR.ACY planned on this past summer; John works for Ford at Detroit and finds time to attend Wayne State grad school. PAT MAZZ/\, area representative from Chicago, had summer plans. BILL STACKPOOLE, in his second year of law at the Univ. of Detroit, had summer intentions. 
Some belated but interesting news follows: 

Although most of us left the campus a year ago last June, some of our classmates returned [or various studies. Good ol' GUIDO aVRNLVSSI is in grad­uate English and taught a freshman English course. (I had reports that his students thought Guido looked and sounded like a full professor!) ED B.\RTON completed his 5ih year of A.B. English to go along with his B.S. I'n chcm. CHARLIE MCCARTH Y worked on his master's in English at 
N.D. and Uught in South Bend. OWEN DON­NELLY finished his final year in architecture. N.D. Law student MIKE BISKO recently paid yours truly an overnight visit ^vhen he was en route to Colo. Mike flew to the Air Force Academy to serve as a Judge in the N.C.A.A. Fencing Championships last Mardi. 
MILWAUKEE—Pabst Brewery was tlic scene of the fall football smoker, with President Tom Mulcahy addressing members in the smoke-filled raths­keller and a tableful of celebs, (seated, l.-r.) Don Penza, President Mulcahy, John Lattner, (standing) Publicist Dave Roemer, Vice-President John Schloegd, and Treasurer Tom McNulty. Teammates Lattner and Penza spoke. 
Xou- ril relate some bits of information that have filtered down to me. JOE HILLIAR is an engi­neer for Zenith Radio Co. BILL SNYDER is a mfg. sales representative. DENNY BUTLER is at Marshall Law School in Cleveland. PAUL THOMA-f SON is with Cadillac of Detroit in their marketing department and planned on a fall or winter wcd­j diny. TOM H/\NSEN is head track coach at a / high school in Chicago. DAN KR^VLIK teaches and coaches in New Baltimore, Micli., and attends graduate school at Wa>Tic State Univ. in Detroit. *• BRUCE ODL/VUG is at Minnesota Law School with PETE SCHMITZ. Bruce hears wedding bells for ' the near future. JOE TADDEO is presently aboard the USS Jason. JIM O'HANLON married Angcil ., Joan Piccininni, the 1961 Militar>- Ball Queen, after graduation, and is presently an officer in the Marine Corps. MIKE FUREAZ married Miss Judy Jan-
f. ovic in Chicago a year ago this December, and they \, now live near Ft. Sam Houston in Texas. AL ' HIGHDUCHEK and his \vife, the former Patrida 
'. Ifayes, live in Syracuse, N. Y., where AI is with ^ General Electric. GEORGE MAMMOLA 'is work­ing for G.M. in X. Y, 
I received a card from MIKE MORROW in Texas recently. Mike related that he, DAVE HANNAH and MIKE RITSCHEL were serious students of jurisprudence at the Univ. of Texas. LEE FLEMING was last heard of from the >rcditer­rancan, where he is an officer with the U.S.N. CHUCK SLADEK is working in Dallas for Sears-Roebuck Co. MIKE DUNIGiVN was last in Chi­cago with the Army. 
MoWng towards the East Coast area, we have some news from TOM SMITH on the New England fellows. Tom himself is doing medical research at Boston's Beth Israel Hospital and will enter Albany Medical School this (all. Tlic old sporlscaster 
[. JACK CURTIN completed Navy intelligence school and was hoping for assignment aboard a nuclear powered aircraft carrier. PETE CURTIN Iiad his ship, the USS Gurke, declared unseaworthy and was transferred to another ship. GREG AVEIS­MANTLE is seen around the Beacon Hill section, where he is attending Suffolk Law School. As for other future law>ers, BARRY MAHER, JOE HAR­RINGTON and FRED FITZSIMMONS arc at Boston College; whereas GEORGE L.\NE and CHUCK MONAHAN attend Boston Univ. JERRY PLUKER received his master's in histor>* from the Univ. of Oregon last August. DICK HUGHES is an ensign stationed aboard the USS Sturdy. JIM FITZPATRICK is doing graduate work at Boston College In the school of social work. 
Recently I received a newsy letter from TOM WALSH which I will reiterate. Tom spent six months with the Na\*al Air Station in Jacksonville, Florida; during this time he was a frequent house guest of MIKE ZAMBETTI and his wife, Kay. Tom is now employed by the Minnesota Mining Co. and will take that "big step" on Jan. 11, 19Gi, when he marries Miss Nancy Miller. TOM HECO­MOVICH and his wife, Barbara, arc now living in Duluth (belated congratulations, Tom and Barb). CRiVIG VOLLHABER is working for the Trane Co. in St. Paul and ser\'ed as an usher at the 
. summer wedding of BRUCE ODLAUG. JOE "TALES" CULLIGAN is an ensign in the Nav>* stationed aboard the aircraft carrier Wasp. JACK REAG.A N is with a Minneapolis accounting firm. His four-year roommate LOU SCHIRANO showed up In the Twin Cities this summer to be a godfather for Jack and Carol's firstborn. 
D.AVE SCALISE and his wife, Barbara, and daughter, Theresa Marie, reside in Ann Arbor, Michigan, where Dave is attending the U. of M. School of Business. A real fine letter arrived from Johanna (Jo) Mader. JOHN MADER and wife Jo, are presently stationed with the 30th Inf. in Schwcinfurt, Germany. JOHN PUGLIESE and Karen are also there. The Xfadcr family now consists of two daughters. Mar>- Margaret and the eldest, Beth 2i/2 yrs. Jo had other information, TOM SHIPP and Judy Lunk were married Aug. 10 in Chicago. They arc now living in Tucson were Tom is studying for his Master's at the University of Arizona. BILL IRVIN is in his second year at Harvard, and was married on Aug. 24 to Nanc>­Jane Allman of Cambridge, Mass. DICK CREE­DON and GInny are l!\ing on Staten Island and are both going to scliool, Dick for his Master's at Columbia. The MaderS would love to hear from Grace Ann and JAY TITONE. JOHN GOETZ is stationed with the U. S. Army in beautiful Heidel­berg, Germany, where he is a training officer in a signal company. 
This past summer I received a pleasant letter from Mrs. ANGELO DABIERO. Angic took on a new challenge this year when he began teaching at Carmel High School, a boj-s* Catholic school in Mundclein, lU. Angie is the head football coach and serves as director of physical education. How-
SACRAMENTO—At UND Night cere­monies (from left) IVfan of the Year William T. Daly received congratulations from Umversity representative Thomas 
J. Keman and Al Kaelin, retiring presi* dent of the N.D. Club of Sacramento. 
ever, he'll have to go some to improve on the 8-1-1 record compiled by the Marian Central Cath­olic Team on which he was an assistant. Angle's Avife Pat and daughter Lois live at 329 E. Midway Dr., Mundelcin, 111. 
From area rep. TERRY McGLINN we received a real newsy letter which I'll pass on to you. JOHN OLANE is working oa the sales stafT of Union Carbide Co. in Boston, Mass. ARMAND REO is a salesman for Armour Foods and was mar­ried to Miss Judy Quinn last July 6. Congratu­lations, Arm. KARL RQESSLER is employed by General Electronics in Ft. Wayne and is engaged to be married. 2nd Lt. DICK N/\.AB and his wife as of last February were living in Calif, where Dick \vas stationed with the Army. TOM TWARDOW­SKI is attending Villanov*a Law School; Tom and Mrs., the former Ann La Manna, were expecting their first child along about Sept. 2nd Lt. TOM NE\VMAN is stationed at Olmsted AFB in Harris­burg, Pa. TOM HECOMOVICH was married last November and is working for Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. in Duluth, Minn. 2nd Lt. CHRIS BUCKLEY is reported to be ser^'ing with the Army in France. TERRY McGLINN himself is at Wharton of the Univ. of Pa. 
I received a nice letter from GLENN HENDRY, who received his MBA from ^Vashington University in St. Louis last June. Glenn is presently serving with the armed forces as a 2nd Lt. at Ft. Riley. Glenn married Carolyn Cowan, a St. Louis U. grad, on Sept. 14. And if that doesn't mark a busy year! Congratulations. His ex-roomie from N.D., JOHN KUEHNE, is spending his spare time familiarizing himself with Germany and the rest of his time with tlie 83rd Field Artillery Gp. 
LECTURE SERIES of five foreign diplo­mats, supported by a grant from The Sperry and Hutchinson Co. presented by S & H district manager Harry M, Bixby 
(center), will be adminbtered by Dr. Stephen Kertesz (left) of the NJ>. Com­mittee on International Relations and Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the president for special projects. 
From the Alumni Office: ^VILIAM J. WILDERS writes us from Vicenza, Italy, that he has "a very lucrative job with the 
U.S. Government. Due to its highly classified nature I can divulge no further information." 
ROBERT F. KRAU5E, employed by U.S. Steel's Duquesne Works during the summers of 'GO and '61, participated in their *63 tedinical summer pro­gram at the Fundamental Research Laboratory in Monroevillc, Pa. RICHARD S. JANICKI 1$ now employed by Linder-Kelleher Sc Co., South Bend public relations firm, as an account executive and assistant to the president. 
PAUL F. SLATTERY, Hartford, Conn., has been awarded a prize at Yale for outstanding work in physics by first-year graduate students. He is one of 10 Yale graduate students who were recently ap­pointed predoctoral trainees by the National Aero* nautics and Space Administration. WILLIAM O'CONNOR HARNISCH is attending Georgetown Law School. 
CARL F. EBEY, candidate for the priesthood, recently completed a year of University studies at St. Joseph Hall, N.D. 
JOHN J. McGUIRE JR. took the big step in July and married Joan Mousaw, a June graduate of SMC. They set up housekeeping at 760 Prospect Avenue, Hartford, Conn. 
Sister M. ROS.ANNE EZERSKI5, SSC, one of our co-eds, has been teaching Spanish at Maria High School, Chicago, for the past eight years and this past summer participated in a Spanish Lan­guage Institute restricted to 40 outstanding foreign-language teachers of elementary and secondary school Spanish. 
Last December Kfiss Ton! Grey and TONY BILL were married and are living in Hollywood. Tony has started another movie, **Soldier in the Rain," co-starring \vith Tom Poston and starring Jackie Gleason and Steve McQueen. (Tony's love interest —Tuesday Weld.) FREDERICK SEITZ, LLJ). president of the National Academy of Sciences, spoke at the dedication luncheon for the new Radiation Research BIdg. on our campus. 
2nd Lt. KHCHAEL R. DeWALD completed an ll-week officer orientation course in July, at the Army Armor Center, Fort Knox, Ky., where he received instruction in the duties and responsi­bilities of a newly commissioned armor officer. 2nd Lt. LEONARD C. BETTEX of Jamaica, N. Y.. received his silver wings in the Air Force at Vance AFB, Okla., and completed pilot instructor truning at Randolph AFB, Texas, this summer. He will be assigned permanently to Moody AFB, Ga., to fly T-33's and is trained to teach student pilots to fly jet trainer aircraft. Meanwhile, back in Texas, seven more Class of '62 men have com* picted or are working on Air Force courses. At James Connally AFB 2nd Lt. PATRICK D. MORAN, the working one, has started radar and celestial navigation training in T-29 "Flying Class­room" aircraft. Airman 3rd Class FAUST E. CAPOBIANCO of Bangor, Pa., has been named honor graduate at the Air Force fuel specialists' school, and will be assigned to Willow Grove Naval Air Station, Pa. Also at Amaiillo, Ainnan 3rd Class JAMES S. HOHENBRINK ivas trained in the use of supply publications and mechanized accounting procedures and returned to his Indiana Air Na' tlonal Guard Unit in Fort Wayne. Flyinsf ever to Lackland AFB, we find that four of our boys have graduated there and were commissioned 2nd Lts. DAVID W. STRUTZ of McrriU, Wis., has been assigned to Ellsworth AFB, S. D., as an air police officer. WILLIAM L. OTIEN of Ferguson, Mo., who was honored as a distinguished graduate, has been assigned to a imit of the Missouri Air National Guard at St. Louis. Lt. Otten, the first member of the Mo. Air Guard to attend GTS, won the academic trophy in his class. PAUL J. McKENN.A JR. of Pittsburgh, Pa., is a personnel officer with the .Air Forces In Europe. MICHAEL 
D. O'SHEA of Jersey City, N. J., is a wex^rans controller at Luke AFB, Ariz. 2nd Lt. JEROME R. KULESIA, South Bend, is stationed in Korea with the 8th artillery, and Is scheduled to return to the States In January. Ensign ROBERT A. GREEN, JR., Pleasantvillc, N. Y., Is stationed with the Navy at Norfolk, Va. R^ert is also a finalist In the competition for the Paris Prize, a natioital architecture award. For bis thesis, he planned a development of the Tarrytown waterfront, with ex­panded recreational and boating facilities, a new marina and "boatel." 2nd Lt. JER0!11E F. KEEFE, English langu^^e liaison officer for the 304th Signal Battalion, is supervising his imlt's participation In a volunteer program to help teach English and Americanism In two middle and high schools in Korea. 
JOHN F. WILBRAHAM, an internal auditor at Clark Equipment Co., Buchanan, Mich., is now 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End, 2963 53 
residing in Niles. His brother FRANCIS "MKE " WILBRAHAM has started his second year at Hlhnrminn Medical College in Philadelphia. JOHN 
A. D^ALOO is attending Rutgen Laiv School for hu second year. 
Uraf Class of 1962 
Pan! K. Rooncy 
700 Victory Boolcvaid 
Staten Island, New York 
The long nde out to South Bend wzs worth­
while to take in the opening Xotre Dame-Wis­
consln game. Victory eluded the Irish in the 
final 67 seconds—^a real heartbreaker. But hearts 
can be mended by Haig & Haig and good company 
—^thc former furnished by the Morris Inn and the 
latter by Sophie and JIM GOETHALS, who fed 
mi^ boarded us at Chicago and Stur^. Entertain­
ment was furnished by son Michael Allan^ alias 
"Tiger." Also spoke to Dean 0*Meara, Professors 
Murphy, Kellenberg, Clark, and the ever livelv 
Chief. 
Conversed with Barbara and JAY CHARON, who 
are now residing in Chesterton, Indiana. It's a 
**steel" for Jay, who's been in and out of court 
representing his Gary, Ind., firm. LaSalle Street 
was well represented by the firm of Kelly, Fecora, 
Macizewski, and Brou-n. BILL KELLY is engaged 
(to Sarah) in his final year of clerkship in South 
Bend. Out in Colorado, FELIX MACIZEWSKI is 
making plans for his appearance as the next Luau 
hegal Eagle in Hau-aii. If you want your goose 
cooked, see STAN the Man PECOR.A, who was re­
cently returned from bis stint as Chef First Class 
with the Army, RAY BROAVN and Bev have also 
joined forces with Uncle; Ray is stationed ivith 
JAG in St. Louis. New Yorker JIM HARRING­
TON, having won his degree from Northwestern and 
his wrife from Iowa, may relocate in the Big Apple. 
GEORGE McANDREWS showed up with one of 
his usual attractive dates, personally confirming that 
(1) he is still a bachelor and (2) be Is currently with a Chicago patent firm. Understand MIKE FHENNER is undergoing JAG training at the U. of Virginia, in preparation for a more permanent post at the Pentagon. Saw MIKE BRADY briefly, but missed TIM and Karen AVILKE (parents of a little girl) who were visiting the new library, which has completely changed the complexion of that fide of the campus. Also missed JIM STUCKO and FETE **JIV£" KELLY at the Touchdown Club. 
Heard the call of the wild from BOB VERVER­KA, PFC (Pariah First Class) at Fort Lewis, Washington. Big V*s letter decrying the lot of the noncommissioned lawyer can be read in the ABA Jonmal—Jidy issue. His campaign cry: **&lore status for the EM." JERRY BRANN is with a Philaddphia firm, and JOHN DELL is balancing the scales of justice under the Florida sim. 'Weigh­ing anchor with Navy JAG is MIKE KELLEY. Correction: JOE ALBRIGHT is located in West Virginia «nth a general practice, and not Kentucky as prenonsly reported. 
The **never rains but" adage has again proven true. Saw no one N.D. wise in New York until xecent lunch mth KEVIN LYONS and JOE BIR­MINGHAM, both located on the Street. Standing on the comer, who should happen by but DAN 03RIEN '61. Speaking of comers, around the same in Staten Island live TOM JOYCE '63, wife Pat and daughter Ann. 
New address necessitated in part by an extra pair of smiling Irish eyes—Erin Patrice, bom August 9, thinks the world is a lot of laughs. Et tu? 
1963 
Fraaof IKcdlo 
218 F^dmcr HJU Road 
OM Greenwich, Connecticut 
It has been a busy and active period since last June for the Ou s of 1963. I had the pleasure of joining JIH HUGHES, KEVIN O'NEILL, DAVE KENNEDY, JACK WALKER, PARLE BLAKE, SIEVE McMAHON, DICK JA&fES and KEVIN QUINN at the wedding of Marine 2nd Lt. JAMES FLEMING to Chris Crean in Greenwich, Conn., last June. Jim and Chris arc now living in Vtr^nia. 
Claii area representative CHARLES SAGE, who b u enrolled at Texas Law School, writes to an-BooDce the nmuncr weddmgs of JOHN O'CONNOR aad JOHN MADDEN. New Houston residents are Mr. aad Mn. KEVIN CHISHOLM. Kevin is 

54 Notr4 Dorm Alumnus, Year End, 1963 
ROME—^Mrs. A. H. Kru^cr, mother of John Knieger *49, presents Eternal City Club Secretary VIncc McAloon '34 with a bust of RocLnc long honored in her home at Oak Harbor, O., in memory of her late husband. 
working for the accounting firm of Arthur Anderson and Co. 
Detroit area representative TERRY DESMOND, who is doing graduate work at Wayne State Univer­sity, reports that CLIFF ANGERS was married in a ceremony at N.D. this summer. Classmate LARRY MORGAN was the best man. GREG SCmVARTZ was also married tlus summer and then served as the best man at the wedding of MICKEY WALK­ER. Joining the business world were RAY BO­NANO and BRIAN RICHARDSON. Ray is with Ford Motor Co. and Brian is associated with the Detroit Bank and Trust Co, 
MIKE DEL MONTE, our Philadelphia rep., writes that he would like nothing better than to hear from some of the fellows. His address—^3019 Long­shore Ave., Philadelphia. Mike worked at the Rohm-Hoas Co. during the summer and will attend Penn for graduate work in chemical engineering on an NDEA fellowship. 
Word has it that Fjndlay, Ohio, was invaded by many of our classmates last July. The occasion— the marriage of that confirmed bachelor, PAUL LEWIS to SMC graduate Carol Kramer. 
GEORGE KERIN writes from Denver that he is attending Denver U. doing grad work in psy­<^ology. EUGENE BLISH spent the summer work­ing for the Denver National Bank, while LARRY GRIFFIN tmderwcnt amphibious training with the 
U.S. Navy. BARTLEY O'HARA is studying Eng­lish at Columbia. 
Also in the mailbag last summer was a letter from REGIS aANFIELD. He worked as an accountant 
FRS. PAUL WENDEL, '49 (left) and John Dupuis *31, C.S.C, (right) quiz a major on summer ROTC training proce­dures during a recent visit to Fort Rilcf, Kansas. 
all summer and will attend Virginia Law School. 
JOE SIMONI, TOM VOLLMER, KEVIN HART and I got together in Yankee Stadium one night this simmier to watch the Yankees down the ^Vhite Sox. The Simonis are living on Staten Island and Joe is attending Columbia. Tom is at Harvard Law and Kevin plans to attend graduate school in January. 
It was recently announced in the New York Times that fomier Grand Knight PAUL KELLY is engaged to Ruth Dowling. Paul is attending Fordham Law School. 
BOYD GEORGE is attending Virginia Law School. He sends word that BOB CALLAHAN is now working in Chicago with the Health, Education and Welfare Department. JOSEPH "BUZZ" MENDEL has moved to Pittsburgh to work for Westinghouse. DON MAUS is in the Navy work­ing in Admiral Rickover's na^'al reactor program. His new address in Washington—30 Old Gelebe Rd., Arlington, Va. 
Returning to the Southwest, TOM JOLIE claims that Texas football doesn't compare in excitement with the N.D. brand. Tom is doing graduate work in Latin American studies, and is active in Newman Club activities. 
Among those back at Notre Dame for the season opener against \Vl5consin were: DON RYAN, JAY WARD, MIKE SENNOTT and AL KILLILEA. Don Is at Northwestern Business School, and Jay is stud>-ing law at DePaul. Al is at the University of Chicago on a fellowship. Mike left immediately after the game for an extended tour of Europe. 
1964 OPPORTUNITIES IN THE PEACE CORPS 
Washmgtott, D.C.—The Peace Corps estimates that it vnll require at least 9,000 Volunteers to meet the requests of host cotmtry go\-einments in 1964. 
These needs include: 5,000 teachers, 2,000 community development woriccrs, 700 health workers, 600 agricultural technicians and 700 skilled tradesmen, technicians and pro­fessional personnel. 
The greatest demand is for teachers — 3,000 for secondary schoob, 1,000 for ele­mentary and 500 for colleges and univer­sities. An additional 500 Volunteers are needed for the fields of physical, vocational and adult education. 
Tbe Peace Corps is interested in Volun­tecn who are planning to retire and also those eligible for a leave of absence from thdr present employment. 
Applicants are advised to submit an early applkatioa if they want to be conadered for either a Fdiruary or June appointment. An application form may be secured from the Peace Corps, Dit*ision of Recruiting, Washington, D.C. 20325. Special literature win be sent to those indicating the partic­ular area of their skill and when they would probablr be available. 
From the Alumni Office: 
ROBERT F. KfENSIK of La Grange, 111., became a 2nd Lt. at Lackland AFB, Tex., and has been assigned to Amarillo AFB, Tex., to attend a course for supply officers. Aviation Cadet RONALD J. STAPUTON of Gary, Ind., has entered training for radar and celestial navigation in Air Force T-29 "Flying Classroom" aircraft at James Con­naUy AFB, Tex. Cadets STEPHEN D. HENNING of Green^le, S. C , and JOHN M. LAMBERTI of Hollis, N. Y., participated In the AFROTC this summer. Upon completion of their training they become eligible to be 2nd Lts. At Fort Bliss, Tex., Army 2nd Lts. JOHN Q. HALL of Lenox, Mass., ROBERT V. DAHLKE of Cleveland, O., and JAMES C, DIPPMAN of Mt. Prospect, III., are scheduled to complete officer orientation courses at the Air Defense Center this fall. WILLIAM C. MORAN of Memphis, Tenn., JOSEPH R. HICKEY of Bauvia, N. Y.. MILTON J, MARTINI of Koj^le, Pa., and JAMES J. THOMAS were com­missioned 2nd Lts. in the Army at Fort Riley, Kan., late in July after completing six weeks* train­ing under the ROTC program. Jim returned to 2360 Wisconnn Rd., Rockford, 111., where wife An­nette bad kept the home fires burning. Army 2nd Lt. £. JAMES WEBER, Kankakee, lU., completed his ordiumcc officer basic training at Aberdeen Proving Ground, Md. He received a comprehen­sive introduction to the ordnance mission of develop­ing, stq^lying and maintaining the Army's combat vehidcs, as well as extensive training in leadership and other phases of troop command duty. He 

plam on two yean with the army and then into law school. Army 2nd Lt. THOMAS F. WILLIAMS, of South Plainfield, N. J., completed an orientation course for newly commissioned infantry officers at ; Fort Benning, Ga. At Fort Belvoir, Va., Army 2nd 
• Lt. DAVID J. DEKA, South Bend, Ind., has com­
pleted his orienution for officers in the corps of k>- cngmcers. 2nd Lt. EDWARD A. DAVIS of Alden, 
• N. Y., has completed officer training and has been assigned to the 10J4th USAF Auditor General Squad­^ ron in Los Angeles, Calif. THEODORE EUGENE MADEY (physicist, solid 
, state) and CHARLES EDWARD DICK (physi­cist, atomic and molecular) have been employed by the U.S. Department of Commerce, National 
» Bureau of Standards, 7th Cii-il Service Region. 
.Anne, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS R. , JOYCE JR. of New York City, was baptized in k August in a dress worn by her father and grand­
\mothc r and had been handmade by her great-aunt. L "Her godmother is a friend of her mother's visiting IWe at the time from Montpellier, France. . -HILTON G. "BUDDY" HILL has returned to 
N.D. to work on a master's in sociology. The trio of N.D. Senion he has been singing vrith last sum­mer arc making a name for themselves in the Mid­west. TIMOTHY J. TOMASI has entered George­town Medical School. RICHARD J. PEPLINSKI has returned to N.D. for his master's in chemical engineering alter working for the summer (or _ Humble Oil & Refining Co. at Baytown, Tex., in the distillation and treating section of the process tech­. nical diy. PAUL T. PITLICK is attending Stan­ford Univ. for a master's after spending the sununer working with scientists and engineers at Autonetics, a division of North American Aviation, Inc. JOSEPH M. CASHORE spent the summer visiting 
^ in the home of MICHAEL E. MEEK and had a reunion with JA.MES R. WYRSCH. Mike is going to medical school at Tulane Univ., Jim to George­town Univ. law school, and "MIKE" CASHORE has returned to N.D. for a master's in theology. Mike does not plan to be a priest but a lay the­ologian and feels now that he wants to teach. 
.MAUIIICE PHILIP BRUNGARDT is working in Washington, D.C., now but can always be con­tacted through his home address. Box 307, Mays-ville, Okla. 
JAMES W. ERASER, 2909 Concord Pike, ^fcDanicI Heights, Wilmington 3, Del., is now a 

- research and development chemist at the DuPont Jackson Laboratory. 
Law Class of 1963 

Classen Gramin 912/2 Tenth Ave. -\Port Huron, Mich. 
CLASSEN GRAMM volunteered to represcpt the class as ALUifNUS correspondent at a recent in­formal meeting. He hopes all '63 law^-ers will get in touch at the address above. 
NE;V EXAMINATIONS ANNOUNCED BY 
U. S. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION 
Applications are now being accepted for the 1964 Federal Service Entrance Examination, the U. S. Cit'il Service Commission has an­nounced. This examination, open to college graduates reganlleu of major study, offers the opportunity to begin a career In Uie Federal sen-ice in one of 60 occupational fields. These poutions are located in various Federal :^en­des both in Wasfaingtim, D.C., and through­out the Umted States. Depending on the qualifications of the candidates starting sala­ries for persons appointed from this examina­tion will be $4,^ and ^,795 » year. A written test is required except for those candi­dates who have attained a sufficiently high score on the Graduate Record Examination Aptitude Test. Six tesU are scheduled. The dosing date is April 14, 1964. Management Internships mth starting salaries of $5,79S and $7,030 a year will also be filled from this examination. An additional written test is reqiured. Applicants for these positions most file by January 16, 1964. Details concerning the requirements, further infonnation about the poutions to be filled, and instructions on how to apply are gi^-ca in Civil Sernce An­nouQoement No . 3U> obtainable firom post offices, college placement offices, GvH Service Regional Offices, or the U. S. Civil Service Commisuon, Washington, D.C. 20415. 

CALUMET REGION —At a lawyer's brunch after the animal Red Maes, Ae St Jhotam More Guild of the Gary Diocese had Bishop Andrew Gnttka as sucst at ikt Hotd Gary, All ND men, the principals were (seated, L-r.)t Tmwthy P- Gahin, Guild president; the Bishop; and Judge Alban A. Smith, LaPorte, vice-president; (standing) Benedict R. Danko, treasurer; and Thomas Clifford, GniU secretary. 
VINGENNES — Southern Indiana ND leaders, gathered to discnss alumm and ND Foundation activity in the area, included (seated, L-r.) Rene Dogncanx Jr^ Jim McQuaid, Paul Brokhage, Ralph Sunon; (standmg, from left) Lyle Miller, C B. Lcnahan, and Dick Ruwc, Foimdation assistant director for the Southeast. 
COLORADO SPRINGS —Lookmg over a busy schedule out m dK Rodies mn d^^. Colorado Springs officers, (from left) Vice-President Joe Reich, Pkcsidcst- Otto -^^ Hilbert, and Secretary-Treasurer Jack Brandt. The Chib is lookup ahead to playing host for the first ND-Air Force Academy game in October of 1964. 
Noir0 DmnM Almmmu, Ytv End, i9€3 
Rev. Raymond VT". 1'urra.y. CSC Corby Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
JOHN KENNEDY — NOTRE DAME MAN 
Right: Loetore Medal wos presented by Father Hesburgh at the White House on November 22, 1961, two years before the dote the President wos ossossinoted. Looking on were Fr. Joyce (left) and Asst. Postmaster General James Kelleher. 
" Below: The President's father. Ambassador Joseph P. Kennedy, was a fellow alumnus 
(LL.D. 1941], OS wos his maternol grandfather (not shown), LL.D. 1915. 
Above: Senator Kennedy received the patriotism award from senior doss president George Stroke, Jr., at Washington's Birthday exercises in 1957. Brother Robert Kennedy won the award in 1958. 
Left: The young honorary alumnus was shown enioying football at his new alma mater in the eorly 50's with his sister Patricio and his 
bride, the former Jacqueline Bouvier. 





