The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
fcVS 
\ ^ 
I 
-ft^ 



Bliiliii 
the dead women and children lying 

Alumni Ash there. And I watched as a photogra­
pher snapped a picture of my Marines 

"I do not believe ND has digressed as far as some are led 
to believe." 
ABOUT CHANGES AT ND 

It is with mixed emotions that I report the (lack of) activities of the Ohio Valley ND Club. Recent changes at ND and the adverse publicity they have generated have caused most of the local Alumni to become dis­interested to the extent that our ND Club has had no activities since last fall. 
When questioned about lack of interest, some of the answers are—^ND is no longer a Catholic University; Material wealth has spoiled ND; Re­ligion is being neglected at ND; It is not the same school we attended; and I would not send my son to ND. 
As the father of two sons at ND I have had the opportunity to visit the Campus and talk with some of the students. I am sorry to say there are some reasons for the above criticism, but I do not believe ND has digressed as far as some are led to believe. 
In the first place the students have not changed appreciably in the past 35 years. It is the dicipline and leader­ship that has changed. The students of yesterday were as confused about the future as those of today. Then it was the depression; today it is the war. Not much to look forward to. Then students looked to their instruc­tors and the school administration for guidance; today they are led by their elected classmates who have to be controversial to maintain their posi­tions. 
Yesterday it was the Scholastic and the Daily Religious Bulletin that guided the students. Today it is the Scholastic and Observer. The Scho­lastic of yesterday was also edited by students but the administration must have been consulted more about its contents because it did not receive the adverse publicity it is now re­ceiving. 
Most of the older Alumni of the valley are concerned about the article "Religion on the Campus" in the March-April issue of the ALUMNUS. It evidendy was not written by some­one who lived there during the "old times" described, at least not during the years 1929-1933. I do not re­memiier any demands that students attend daily Mass and receive holy Communion. They were encouraged to receive daily and opportunities for the sacraments were more available. 
I also do not remember the whole student body assembling at the Grotto during May. That too wras voluntary and was attended by fewer than 500 students. 
It is true that lights were out at midnight (10 pm for freshmen) but that was an advantage. Everyone knew he would have to plan his day so he had his work done by midnight. There was no studying all night and sleeping through or in class the next day. 
It may be too early to judge the results of the changes that are taking place but what was so wrong with the "old time religion" that produced such men as Cardinal O'Hara, Tom Dooley, Knute Rockne, Father Nieuw­land and Pat Crowley? 
To refute the statement that stu­dents of yesterday did not care about their fellow man, one only has to ex­amine the works of the above men and the many others who carried on their work without fanfare or protest marches. 
Because the present-day student does not have leaders to turn to, radical groups seize upon the op­portunity to promote their ideologies. Many radicals have found ND a good place to expound their ideas. Many are led to believe all of the ideas expressed at ND are approved by the administration. Would it not be better if their ideas were expressed else­where? I am thinking of the Father Kavanaugh incident. We still have a hard time proving he was not presi­dent of ND. 
—Bill Milsch '33 Wheeling, W. Vo. 
The ALUMNUS welcomes all letters regarding the University and its Alumni but reserves the right to edit them to meet space limitations. Short letters stand the best chance of publication. 
MORE ABOUT PEACE AND WAR 
This time last year I was there . . . commanding a Marine rifle company. For 13 months, I lived through the hell of heat often in excess of 120 degrees, flood-causing rains, treacher­ous rivers, mud, lats, ants, flies, mosquitos and (lest I forget) "Viet­namese Nationalists" . . . shooting, mining, shelling . . . maiming and killing the cream of American youth. 
Believe me, my young conscientious objectors, it is not a Vietnamese Na­tionalist that we US occupation forces are fighting in Vietnam. It is a ruthless, calculating, unscruptdous, totally unethical Communist who will stop at nothing to further his aim. I saw him kidnap innocent civilians, terrorize peaceful communities with assassinations, use civilians as human shields while he fired upon US and South Vietnamese men, blow up his bridges, blow up civilian buses and other civilian vehicles .. . his own countrymen, if your reasoning is valid. This is the enemy we are fighting in Vietnam, the Vietnamese Nationalist you claim to support! 
Yes, I saw civilians that we killed! I saw my men pinned hopelessly in open rice paddies, casualties mount­ing from the relentless fire we were receiving. I issued orders for artillery fire to be delivered on the village, the source of the enemy fire. Afterwards, we moved through the village and my men searched for the enemy. I saw moving past the dead civilians, sending it for you to see. So now you can form your accurate conclusions about how immoral our actions are in Viet­nam. And don't forget to gather your statistics! And by all means, go on believing the half-truths of the press. 

You may say what you like (I was one of many thousands who fought over there to ensure you of that privilege). But I respond to your statements as one who has been there, who knows that your words are not true. Of course, if you doubt my word, I have an excellent suggestion. Why don't you go over there and see for yourself? Then let me hear from 
you I 
—Ed Banks '58 Stolen Island, NY 

Capt. Jack Gleason III does not speak "for all ND men who have served as members of the Armed Forces" in feeling the pious and patriotic privi­lege he experiences in committing murder in Vietnam. 
I am a former Marine Corps officer —I resigned from the reserve in 1966. having served on active duty from 1957 through 1960—^who does not "sincerely believe that seldom has a man been able to live more fully according to the ideal of God, Country and Notre Dame than as a member of the Armed Forces participating in the defense of the Republic of Viet­nam against an enemy seldom equalled in cruelty or in complete disregard of basic human and individual rights." Such disgusting stupidity! 
—Berl G. Hornback '57, '61, '64 Ann Arbor, Mich. 

Congratulations to the 3000-plus brave and patriotic student "freedom fight­ers" who signed the ROTC-inspired petition condemning demonstrators who show a "basic disregard of human freedom" by non-violent direct action against the Presidential Review. 
Signing such petitions is an ND tradition. Back in January, 1939, 600 undergraduates heroically went on public record as opposing the lifting of the US embargo on arms shipments to Spain, thereby demonstrating the ND man's devotion to the cause of human freedom as represented by the Fascist Franco and his reactionary allies (Hitler, the Catholic Church, the Army and the landowners). 
More recently, in 1965, 3000 stu­dents blindly signed a petition sup­porting the US adventure in South Vietnam—like Spain, a "defense of freedom" from "Communism" which has produced more than its share of Guemicas. 
An ND student petition is com­parable in weight and honor to a HUAC citation. To borrow from a famous comment on the latter, I think it may be fairly observed that any ND demonstrator who b not at one time or another, for one reason or another, condemned by a student petition may be regarded as having wasted his time there and its opportunities for pro­gressive citizenship and service to god(s), country and Earth Mother University. 
—Howard J. Dooley '66 Caithersburg, Md. 2CIT60 
VoL 46 No. 4 July 1968 August 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFRCEHS 
Ambrose F. Dudley Jr '43 HONORARY FIIESIDENT Richard A. Rosenthal '54 
PRESIDENT William D. Kavanaugh '27 VICE-PRESIDENT WUHam F. Kerwin Jr '40 
VICE-PRESIDENT Leo V. Turgeon '42 VICE-PRESIDENT 
James D. Cooney '59 EXECUTTVE SECRETARY 
MAGAZINE STAFF 
John P. Thurin '59 EDITOR June Shassere 
ASSISTANT EDITOR Sheila Dierks Jeannine Doty 
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
M. Bruce Harian '49 
CHIEF PBOTOGRAPHER Richard Stevens '51 Peter McGrath '70 Richard Hunt '69 Don Dempsey '71 
PHOTOGRAPHERS 
ALUMNI BOARD OF DIREaORS DIRiaORS TO 1969 
William D. Kavanaugh '27 BUDGET 3445 Ordway St. NW Washington, DC 20016 
William F. Kerwin Jr '40 ADMISSIONS 1108 Emilie St. Green Bay, Wis. 54301 
Richard A. Rosenthal '54 PUBLIC RELATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT STUDENT AFFAIRS 
P.O. Box 200 . South Bend, Ind. 46624 
Leo V. Turgeon '42 ATHLETIC 3731 Stocker St. Los Angeles, Calif. 90008 
DIREaORS TO 1970 
Edward G. Cantwell '24 70O Binns Blvd. Columbus. Ohio 43204 
Edward B. Fitzpatrick Jr '54 5 The Maples Roslyn Estates, NY 11576 
John J. Reidy '27 11850 Edgewater Dr. Lakewood, Ohio 44107 
Leonard H. Skoglund '38 426 Dover Ave. LaGrange PsCfk, lU. 60525 
DIREaORS TO 1971 
W. Jerome Kane '38 P.O. Box 3707 Seattle, Wash. 98124 
Walter M. Langford '30 1315 Otsego St. South Bend. Ind. 46617 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 1113 Rocky River Rd. Houston, Texas 77002 
Francis J. Wilson '28 6105 Howe St. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219 

In This Issue 
GLADLY WE ACCEPT 
Just as sure as April brings showers and May blossoms forth in newborn flowers, June (for Notre Dame Alumni) means only one thing: Class Reunions. 
This year ten classes represented by more than 1,300 Alumni made the five-year rendezvous and this issue of the ALUMNUS, under the guidance of a gal whose name is June (June Shassere, our loyal assistant editor for the past year) recalls the old-fashioned three-day jam session for all to enjoy. The fun begins on page 10. 
For the magazine staff and myself, thb time of the year also signals a reunion of another sort, the annual meeting of alumni editors. Convening this year under Miami's air-conditioned palms at the American Alumni Council convention, the editors blew their own minds for three days — in this case on the old and the new of alumni publishing. What gave it special flavor was the presence of staffers from national magazines like Time. The Saturday Review and the Allantic Monthly. And before the meeting was over, we alumnors had a pretty good idea of what our com­mercial counterparts thought about our magazines. 
On the one hand they were pleased to see new life in what used to be tired old alumni journals. They felt that not only were these reprobates beginning to look the part but they were also coming up with the timely in-depth stories of campus life today. 
Notre Dame magazines were on the re­ceiving end of several awards. Newsweek presented the ALUMNUS with one of its top national publications awards, citing it for achievement "in alumni publica­tion content relating the institution to public affairs." They had specific praise for the magazine's special feature on "Has Change Run Away with the Church?" (July-August, 1967) and "STUDENT POWER: An Inevitable Issue Takes Its Turn at Notre Dame," (November-December, 1967). Our sister publication, INSIGHT: Notre Dame, drew favorable reaction in the appear­ance category, being cited by Sports 
Illustrated, and also was given national recognition for its photography, faculty sketches and institutional promotion. 
After they were finished praising, the visiting firemen expressed certain mis­givings about alumni publishing. They wanted to know — and I believe rightfully so — why so many of our publications don't interpret national problems from their own institution's perspective. Why aren't Hiore alumni magazines addressing themselves — through their alumni, faculty, their research projects, their educational programs — to the problems of social inequity, the big-city ghetto, the Vietnam war, student unrest, water and air pollution, etc.? 
Quite frankly, these national magazines are envious of our position. They believe alumni magazines have — or could have — a distinct advantage since our publications have a tremendously large — and captive — audience that represents this nation's intellectual and material wealth. .•\nd with that advantage, they also see the undeniable responsibility for us to mobilize that resource for the good of our society as well as for the cause of education. I, as well as my staff, accept that responsibility just as willingly and just as eagerly as I accepted the accolades that came our way last month. The need to express ourselves in such a manner has always existed and now, for us, the incentive has been renewed. We're proud to be publishing your Notre Dame magazines and we hope that in return we will merit your pride — and support. 
PRIZE-WINNING INSIGHT PHOTOS 



Editorials 

The Time Is Now 

By RICHARD A. ROSENTHAL 

TH E 100TH ANNIVERSARY of the 
Notre Dame Alumni Associa­

tion, celebrated this year, was also 
the first birthday of the National 
Notre Dame Alumni Senate. The 
Senate concept evolved some two 
and a half years ago when Dr. 
Thomas P. Carney, president of 
the Alumni Association, recognized 
an organizational gap in the struc­
ture of the Association. 
For many years dedicated boards of directors of the Association had been frustrated in tlieir attempts to converse with equally dedicated and interested Alumni-in-the-field on vital University problems. The tapping of the reservoir of talent (40,000-plus members) was a tre­mendous challenge the Association could ill afford not to meet 
The national character of the University of Notre Dame and its Alumni body provides many in­herent strengths. But the diverse location of Alumni adds to the communications problem. There­fore the organizational structure of the Senate demanded a keen attention to geographical spread, wth weighting given to population densities. 
The structure of the Senate, for­malized at the Alumni Board-Senate joint session at Notre Dame last May, provided for representa­tion from each of the 159 active Alumni Clubs in the continental United States (the Club president, by virtue of his office, automati­cally becoming a member of the Senate). Additionally Clubs whose membership is greater than 199 will elect a second Senator, and those with membership greater than 749 will elect a third Senator. 
The final oi^nizational struc­ture was adopted upwn the recom­mendation of Club presidents, of­ficers and directors around the 
country, as well as interested 
AlumnL 
Senate members are charged 
with the prime responsibility of in­
terpreting Notre Dame as it is to­
day for their Alumni constituency 
and to bring back to the Univer­
sity the ideas, thoughts and desires 
of the Notre Dame family. The 
Alumni organization, as stated in 
its charter, finds its justification for 
existence in serving the Univer­
sity and its Alumni. 
No longer will Alumni groups located 100 to 3000 miles apart be forced to operate without the common bond of tlie University. The Senate will tie togedier the Notre Dame family in the charter responsibilities of "serving the Uni­versity and its Alumni." This is not to say that individual Club initiative will be frustrated. Quite the contrary, the best of Club in­novation will be shared. 
Newly established Alumni pro­grams that received strong support at the joint Alumni Board-Senate meeting in May were broadly categorized into 1) Closer Alumni-student relations, 2) Deeper Alumni and faculty cooperation and 3) Alumni participation in an imaginative admissions program. 
At the 1967 fall meeting of the Alumni Board a representative group of students was invited to visit with the Board so both groups might come to know and under­stand each other better. The suc­cess of this meeting was so great it was suggested such efforts be dupli­cated between Alumni groups and students across the country. 
The idealbm of today's student will unquestionably stimulate the Alumni and the practical season­ing of Alumni will undoubtedly be of value to the students. Such meetings are presently being or­ganized. 
Understandably today's Notre 
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 
Dame faculty is the most sophisti­
cated, vital and diverse group ever 
assembled at the University. Fac­
ulty representatives have expressed 
a desire to know better the Notre 
Dame Alumnus and recognize the 
void that ejosts between Alumni 
and faculty. Faculty members have 
volunteered to Join in Club meet­
ings for an evening of discussion 
and/or to present papers on sub­
jects of topical interest. 
The Admissions Office has au­thored a student recruitment pro­gram which would cover substan­tially every high school in metro­politan areas. Notre Dame Alumni will be assigned the responsibility of carrying admissions information to the high schools and to become so well-acquainted with counselors, principals and teachers that no student of Notre Dame calibre will be lost due to a lack of informa­tion about Notre Dame programs and facilities. 
Additionally Clubs across the country are establishing a Notre Dame Scholar award as a vehicle highlighting Notre Dame's aca­demic excellence. 
The Senate is clearly a vehicle through which the contributions of individual Alumni can be concen­trated in a synergistic phenomenon where the sum of the parts is great­er than the whole. Notre Dame men are continually looking for ways to better their University. And now the opportunity is at hand. 


The Century's Legacy 



By JAMES D. COONEY 
• s INDICATED by Association 
President Richard Rosenthal in this issue, the Notre Dame Alumni Senate is now a reality. The reali­zation of the concept comes at a 

ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 
significant moment — the 100th 
Anniversary of the Alumni Asso­
ciation. 
Creation of the Senate, an ex­
citing and imprecedented entity 
in Alumni organization, is a fitting 
capstone to a century of unparal­
leled Alumni devotion and involve­
ment in the life of a dynamic Uni­
versity. As we close the 1868-1968 
books, the axiom "The past is but 
prologue" emerges meaningfully. 
While our 100th is not marked 

with pealing bells, institutional 
extravaganza, or even modest hula­
baloo, there is nevertheless cause 
for personal rejoicing. Anniver­
saries are, after all, personal kinds 
of things. And, each Notre Dame 
Alumnus should take a hiatus and 
savor the accomplishments that 
have been ours, and our Univer­
sity's. 
The century has seen kaleido­

scopic change within the institu­
tion which is our common experi­
ence and within all of us who have 
passed this way. Change is often a 
\vrenching process and our experi­
ence has not been without concern 
and anguish on occasion. 
But retrospect should show that nothing of value is ever really cre­ated, built or nourished without discomfort, sacrifice and often pain. It's also axiomatic that creation can be an intensely satisfying act. And we have participated in the cre­ation of a great University, which is one of the most noble works of which man is capable. 
There are, however, great lia­bilities associated with what we have done, for a university is a vibrant, living thing and as it achieves new levels of perfection, its needs irrevocably increase. 
And this means that our re­sponsibilities, our liabilities propor­tionately multiply. This is why the Alumni Senate is not just an tm­expected arrival on the Notre Dame horizon. It's an imperative. 
This is also why the centui/s 
I^acy should not woo us into 
euphoric reminiscence, but should 
stir our inclinations, fire our 
imaginations, set new directions. 
The Alunmi Clubs, always 
among our greatest strengths, are 
accepting this challenge. The c<m­
cept of continued (but substan­
tially increased) service to the Uni­
versity is realized in new programs 
of faculty relations, student rela­
tions, student recruitment, public 
relations and development. 
The concept of service to the 
Alumni is bearing new fruit in pro­
grams of placement, continiiing 
education, commimity service and 
more effective and direct commu­
nication with the University. The 
Clubs through Senate influence 
and guidance are investigating 
every means at hand to heighten 
their effectiveness. 
A most exciting aspect of these efforts is Club involvement in ccMn­munity service or social action pro­grams, ranging from work with the retareded, the underprivil^ed, the diseased, to sponsorship of cul­tural events. The spirit of Chris­tianity, a hallmark of Notre Dame since 1842 and long a distinguish­ing mark of its Alumni, is now found realized in multi-faceted Club effort and program. The pos­sibilities here are imlimited. The needs are constandy apparent. The Clubs are answering the call. 
But the Clubs' effectiveness is directiy proportionate to the inter­est and participation of the mem­bers. Newly latmched, relevant programs shall require a greater d^ree of involvement. As we look forward to the next 100 years, tha^s one <A our challenges. 
nCHARO KOSSmiAE '54 b president bf Hie Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
JAMES COONEY '59 is executive secretaiy of Ihe Notre Dome Alumni Association. 


The University 

ACC DIRECTOR PLOUFF and NEW AIDE, JOE SASSANO And just think how it will look then! 

Anticipating Isn't Half the Fun 
J 
UST two years ago die first spadeful of dirt was turned, the first truck moved into the area across from tlie stadium on Juniper Road and the Athletic and Convocation Center was on its way. 
Now the massive double-domed building is almost complete, yet it shields from the \dew of the casual ob-ser\'er die tremendous variety of equipment being installed. What will it offer once its doors are opened? 
Beneath tlie south dome are just under 12,000 multicolored seats sur­rounding, coliseum-style, the basket­ball floor. When the Notre Dame five aren't facing opponents, a portable stage can cover the court and make space for personalities appearing on Campus. In the event of sell-out crowds, 1,000 chairs can be set up to bring the grand total of big dome seating to a litde less than 13,000. 
A variety of activities can progress at one time in the massive area under the north dome. An ice rink, 200 feet by 85 feet, bordered by permanent seats for 1200, has been constructed for hockey practice and play and rec­reational skating. A shop for sales and service on skates and equipment will be available. 
Runners will have no need to worry about their shoes damaging tlie indoor tiack because it is covered with a new rubberized material which is resistant to spike damage. The ten laps to the mile can be run any time witiiout dis­turbance from baseball practice in the track infield. With the installation of nets which can be raised and lowered, there should be no fear of tracksters boing beaned by a pop fly. Also ac­commodated under this dome are a 
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 

ED KRAUSE, HERB JONES, JOHN PLOUFF A lamp IFor you and a key for you. 
THE FIELDHOUSE 
ATHLETIC DIRECTOR KRAUSE 
Not tumbling yet. 
Installed in his new home. 
pole vault area and a high jump area where the traditional pits are replaced by mats. 
Still More. All these diings don't fill up that floor and a great deal of it is to be left open and considered part of the 203,000 square feet of display space available for conventions and trade shows. 
Scattered throughout the rest of the complex are four odier gyms with bas­ketball and volleyball courts and room for free play. Weight-lifting rooms, with weights and other exercise ap­paratus, are being constructed. There is also an area designated for faculty workouts; it is complete with sauna baths. It is rumored this may occa­sionally be used for ladies' nights, too. 
Adding elegance to the building is the Monogram Room, a paneled ex­panse which can be divided into smaller areas for meetings. It has its own kitchen, too. 
As if all this doesn't seem enough 
to fill a building, the Athletic and 
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 

Convocation Center also is home for most of the sports offices and offers such niceties as private interview rooms for the press. 
Among those who will be enjoying the brand-spanking newness is Joseph Sassano '55, '59, former head football coach at Chicago's Weber HS. Sas­sano has been appointed assistant di­rector of the ACC and will lend his helping hands to John Plouff, man­aging director, in overseeing all facets of the operations in the $8.6 million facility. 
When will all this magnificence be ready for public viewing? The grand opening is scheduled for Dec. 1-8 and a variety of activities is being planned to spotlight the occasion. Dr. Thomas 
P. Bergin '45 is chairman of a cam­pus-community committee planning the dedication. 
Big Times Ahead. Some of the pos­sible events are the appearance of a well-known star (this would be broad­cast from the Center on national tele­vision) ; an all-city band, choral and orchestra concert led by a famous conductor; the annual football ban­quet (which this year will be open to women for the first time); a medley of sports events including an ice skat­ing e.xhibition by Miss Indiana of 1968, Lynn Haglund; and a display of South Bend industry. 
Dec. 7 the ND quintet ivill meet UCLA in the opening game in the new arena and the official ceremonies will be Sunday, Dec. 8, with the dedi­cation Mass following a luncheon at the Center. 
It is a week which promises some­thing for everyone as Notre Dame marks the beginning of the age of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Meanwhile, Over There... 
A new age begins and people are apt to forget quickly what went before-— for example, the Fieldhouse. Built in 1898, it served ND well in a variety of roles, the primary one being shelter­ing of ND basketball teams, their op­ponents and the spectators who came to cheer. 
It was presumed that, with the completion of the Athletic and Con­vocation Center, the old Fieldhouse would be razed and a grassy mall planted where once Irish cagers trod. 
The demolition was scheduled to begin early in June but has been de­layed, probably permanently. Instead the building may be turned over to the student body for conversion into a place for social gatherings. The stu­dents are excited about the idea since it has been a standard complaint for 
FIELDHOUSE OF THE FUTURE? What's this world coming to? 

years that there isn't any place you can take a date, especially if you aren't 21. 
So, in behalf of the minors and oldsters alike, architecture students undertook die job of exploring pos­sibilities. One plan, which combines a number of ideas, calls for a student center area. The design includes a miniature mall typical of many subur­ban shopping centers. Also included are shops such as a small bookstore and shoe repair, meeting places, a restau­rant or two and, of course, lounging space for those perennial complainers. 
The idea of making the old struc­ture into South Bend's own Fun City has been voiced around and fairly well received. Conversion into stores, boutiques and cafes is appealing and would certainly add a new dimension to Campus life; but no final decision has been made on exactly how the Fieldhouse will serve the ND family for the next few generations. 
We Never Had It So Good 
Dormitory living -will take on a new air when students occupy the new ac­commodations now being constructed behind Memorial Library. The 11­story dormitories are a far cry from anything ND has seen before. 
The rooms will all be doubles and color coordinated by the interior dec­

orator who works for the aichitectural 
firm. Each room will contsun dual-
type beds which can be used as 
couches during the day and -for sleep 
come nighttime. 
The wardrobes \vill stand seven feet high and measure four feet wide and two feet deep. Each one will contain a number of drawers for folded stor­age as well as a bar for hanging clothes. To minimize space problems the wardrobes will have sliding doors. For studying, each student will be provided with a desk which will con­tain bookshelves and a light. 
Perhaps the biggest furniture fea­
ture is its mobility, allowing not only 
varying arrangements within the room 
but also for conversion of two con­
necting rooms into suites, with all bed 
furniture in one room and the study 
area in the other. 
One feature of the new dorms 
which \vill entice students is the air-
conditioning. 
Another luxury item is carpeting in the corridors. Originally it was sched­uled for the entire buildings but costs forced cutting carpet from the dorm rooms. It is possible room carpeting may be reinstated in later plans, but one area definitely slated for the treat­ment is the lounge which will connect the towers. Couches, chairs, coffee tables and television will make this section of the building an attractive one in which to entertain visitors. 

Life, Student Style, Goes On 
"This gives the Board the highest hopes for the future of an increasingly significant and meaningful society at Notre Dame, provided that the many, often apathetic, are willing to join the presently active few and to work together, intelligently and responsibly, for the ultimate good of the whole conmiunity." 
This quote from Edmund Stephan, chairman of the ND Board of Trus­tees, in his statement of policy on student Ufe, gives hope to the stu­dents, too. As a result of a meeting between the board and faculty, ad­ministration and student representa­tives, ND students have been given a voice which was not heard before. 
At April's end, the Board approved the principle of "equal representation of faculty, administration and stu­dents on a legislative University Stu­dent Life Council, with a comparable structure for adjudication and review in serious disciplinary matters." 
The type, number and pwwers have been defined. Now all that remans are elections and the real work. July 18 Student Body Pres. Richard Rossi, Rev. Charles McCarragher CSC, Ed­
ward Miuphy, Phil Faccenda (assis­
tant to the president) and Edmimd 
Stephan worked out final plans for 
the Student Life Council. 
The Coimcil will be made up of eight students, eight faculty members and eight administrators, with two from each group acting as ex-officio members. These will be the student body president and vice-president; Ed Murphy, chairman of the Faculty Senate, and Gerald Jones, chairman of the Faculty Conmiittee on Student Affairs; Father McCarragher, vice-president for student affairs, and Rev. James Riehle CSC, dean of stu­dents. 
The role of this new coimcil is pri­marily legislative, setting up rules which the undergraduates must ob­serve. Any Student Senate resolutions or petitions bearing the signatures of 500 students will be taken up imme­diately. 
The first meeting of the Student Life Council will be Oct. 14, shortiy after the remaining six members of each division have been chosen. The election of student members will be on a Campus-wide basis. "We want to get away from the class system and madice this a united University," Rossi said. "We feel that freshinen and seniors should be treated alike." 
Also in the making is a Student Judiciary. This committee will take up all infractions by the students either on a hall or Campus-wide level. 
Rossi has not let the summertime disrupt his duties as student body president. Since the beginning of June he has remained on the Campus, mak­ing ready his year as No. 1 leader. In addition to his work on the Stu­dent Life Council, Rossi has been making plans for another group of 20 students — the Student Academic Council. 
"Although the Student Life Coun­cil is very important because we want to see it work, academic reform is my real pet," he claims. "The big ques­tion now is 'How can we improve academics on this Campus?' To an­swer this, we must first ask ourselves these questions: What exactly is the nature of education? How is our edu­cational system geared here? What are we trying to produce? What is a good teacher and how do you de­termine this?" 
One of the projects the Academic Council hopes to initiate is a "Fresh­man-Sophomore Year of Studies" which would be an integrated study of the humanities. Presently there is only a Freshman Year of Studies di­vision in the University. The new division would attempt to put more emphasis on the undergraduate school. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 

DICK CONKLIN '59 
THE MOREAU MASS-and MONEY 
I T BEGAN in the fall of 1966 when a small group of 
nuns walked around the lake to comprise most of the congregation at Moreau Seminary's first public 11 am Sunday Mass. Opening up the traditionally closed Mass to the whole People of God was one of the innovations of the Rev. Louis J. Putz CSC, Moreau's rector, and today's worshippers come 20 minutes early in hopes of a seat 
The attraction? Simple. The Moreau Mass has what every pastor and liturgist is looking for — that elusive quality called "community." And contrary to what might be expected, it is not as homogeneous as the average parish. Looking around, one spots teen­age girls from town, the head of the psychology department, one of the leading Pentecostal move­ment proponents on the theology faculty. Saint Mary's women, a beard on a man here, a hat on a woman there, and so on. 
The liturgy is folk, but not radical. Spoken peti­tions are invited from the congregation, and there is a "handshake of peace" at the Agnus Dei. Otherwise, it's rather much the same liturgy the ordinary parish advertises somewhat disparagingly as its "Teenage Mass." The music is mainly Ray Repp and Missa Bossa Nova, well executed by seminarians. 
The sermons are unquestionably superior, espe­cially when Rev. John Dunne CSC, a quiet-spoken theologian who preaches as though he is leading a seminar, or Father Henri Nouwen, a Dutch priest-psychologist whose approach is more histrionic, are in the pulpit. 
The popularity of Moreau has not been lost on those across the lake. Sacred Heart this year ini­tiated a folk liturgy at 12:15 pm Mass, and (although it might be coincidental) more South Bend parishes seem to be allowing a folk liturgy option. 
While no one would argue that every parish ought to be a Moreau, it would be a channel-visioned person indeed who would not admit that Moreau — with its unusual sense of community — might not have something to offer a pastor seeking a liturgy which is relevant \vithout being unorthodox. 
The real tragedy of the Vatican's turn-down of the American Bishops' request to set up liturgical experimentation centers at such imiverSities as Notre Dame is that successful experiments such as the Moreau Mass might remain "outside of town and on the other side of the lake." 
*** *** **» PRU-UN . . CH! SNAP! THUD! What's that you hear? 
That's the tread of the efficiency expert in academe. He doesn't want to be called an "efficiency expert." His foot is slippered and his pace measured, but sensitive faculty ears are attuned to his every 
step. What has brought him to the Campus? A money squeeze. 
From 1910 to 1950, the nation's per capita gross national product rose faster than college expenditures per student, but between 1949-50 and 1963-64 (virtually co-extensive with the Father Hesburgh era at ND) the real increase in the educational cost-per­student was 79 percent versus an increase of only 34 percent in per capita GNP. 
As one observer summarized the situation, "If we extrapolated current trends sufficiently far into the future, the entire GNP would be devoted to higher education. This is plainly impossible: hence the much discussed 'crisis in college finance.'" 
A sign of the times came recendy with the in­stallation of Charles Hitch as the president of the 
U. of California, replacing Clark Kerr. Gone was the academically trained econcnnist and in was the experienced comptroller who successfully applied systems analysis to McNamara's Pentagon programs. 
The apjwintment of Dr. Thomas E. Stewart, former associate vice-president for academic affairs, to head a new Office for Planning and Analysis and to direct a comprehensive institutional study is local evidence of the national trend. 
The basic analytic tool of this new breed of campus plaimer is "PPBS"—^jxilicy, programming, budgeting systems. It sounds complicated, but it is really nothing more than a highly systematic, more complicated and longer range version of what we all go through when we sit down with our checkbook and try to figure out how to buy that badly needed new car. We establish goals and priorities (policy), figiure out how we are going to achieve them 
(programs), especially in view of limited resources (budgeting). 
Few persons quarrel with attempts to apply PPBS to the business office (or even to the development office), but there are many who are disturbed at the thought of this approach being used on the academic side—^in determining, for example, the optimima size of an academic department in order to accomplish set teaching and research objectives. 
"The search for new knowledge is extremely difficult to program," Kingman Brewster, president of Yale, remarked at an education writers' sympo­sium this spring, succinctly voicing the skeptics' case. 
On the other hand, PPBS proponents argue the academic side of education is not so mystical it cannot be submitted to rational analysis and, furthermore, such analysis should be welcomed in the avowed House of Reason. 
One thing is certain—^unless some kind of system­atic matching of resources to goals is accomplished in academe, the next footfalls heard might be the pallbearers for private higher education. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1963 AUGUST 
What About Those Gals? 
Foundations wll soon take an active 
role in promoting the affiliation of 
liberal arts colleges and universities, 
according to Dr. George N. Shuster 
'15, assistant to ND's president. 
Speaking to summer school students 
and the public in July, Dr. Shuster 
said small college faculties are increas­
ing pressure for access to the research 
facilities of a university. He added, 
however, that future technological de­
velopments might permit affiliation 
without geographical relocation of 
schools. 
He declined to detail the possibili­
ties of collaboration being discussed 
by faculty-administration committees 
of ND and neighboring Saint Mary's 
Col. But he noted SMC's recent elim­
ination of graduate programs means 
she is going to remain a liberal arts 
college while ND "seems more and 
more a university." 
The possible relocation of Barat 
Col. of Lake Forest, 111. puts the dis­
cussion in the "cluster college" con­
cept stage. Barat is an "experimental 
case," Dr. Shuster said, which points 
up the difficulties of affiliation and 
also its opportunities. 
He implied the future might see several colleges clustered around ND and also said the University had been approached about affiliation by still another college, a non-sectarian one. "Something of the vitality of Notre Dame can be seen in the fact that it can, by its own nature, attract non-Catholic institutions," he commented. 

In answer to a question following the talk. Dr. Shuster said he felt ND was "big enough" already and had no intention of "gobbling up" smaller institutions. The trend, he pointed out, is in the opposite direction, with large state university systems attempt­ing to "break up the colossus" in a variety of smaller educational units. 
He predicted South Bend would be the center of two major university complexes with Indiana U. having at least 25,000 students and probably a medical school. The private comple­ment to this public institution, he said, would be a Notre Dame around which other colleges will cluster to form "one of the great private uni­versities of the United States and possibly of the world." 
Dr. Shuster's attitude toward the collaboration between SMC, Barat and ND was cautiously optimistic. "We're getting there very slowly, but we will get there," he said. 
The joint committee for ND and SMC is scheduled to report to Uni­versity trustees this fall. Barat's plans are expected to be announced yet this summer. 
DR. CROSSON 
DR. STEWART 
A comprehensive study of all facets of the University and the creation of a new Office for Planning and Analysis have been announced by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, president. In a letter to the faculty. Father Hesburgh said, "We must go into a truly comprehensive study of every aspect of our present op­eration and future planning . . . and use this self-knowledge to or­ganize and manage our situation in the most reasonable, economic and efficient way." He noted this broad-gauged institutional study would parallel a complete study of the curriculum which was an­nounced in April. 


Dr. Thomas E Stewart '57. '59, 
associate vice-president for aca­demic affairs, was named to the new post of assistant to the presi­dent for planning and analysis. Dr. Stewart will work with a steering committee headed by Rev. Edmund 
P. Joyce CSC, executive vice-presi­dent, in carrying out the study. The NYC management consulting firm of Cresap, McCormick and Paget, earlier retained to study business operations, will act in an advisory capacity. 
Succeeding Stewart as associate vice-president for academic affairs 

PEOPLE 
FATHERS BROWN and WALSH 


is Rev. Ferdinand L Brown CSC '51, 
religious superior at ND since 1960. 
* * * 

Frederick J. Gosson PhD '56 is to 
begin his term as the first lay dean 
of the University's College of Arts 
and Letters Sept. 1. 
Crosson, a 42-year-old philoso­

pher specializing in phenomenolo­
gy and existentialism, succeeds Rev. 
Charles L Sheedy CSC '33, liberal 
arts dean since 1952, who was 
named to the new post of dean of 
theological studies and institutes. 
Crosson joined the ND faculty in 1953 and became chairman of the General Program of Liberal Studies in 1964. He has also been serving as associate director of ND's Philosophical Institute for Artificial Intelligence. During the past year he has been on leave at the U. of Chicago where he has been lecturing and conducting re­search for two books. 
Rev. John E Walsh CSC '45, vice-president for academic affairs, has been appointed by President Lyn­don B. Johnson to a new Advisory Committee on the Teacher Corps. The committee will advise the US Commissioner of Education on the development and improvement of Teacher Corps services and will make recommendations on legisla­tion. 
* * * 

Silver stars aren't the usual sports awards, but who says the Army isn't athletic? After a four-year stint as professor of military science and commanding officer of the Army ROTC unit at ND, Col. John J. Stephens has bolted the armed forces doors and opened a new one—to the assistant athletic director's office. He fills a position which has been vacant since 1966 
RUSH, FATHER JOYCE, WYCUFF, MRS. BUNDSCHUH, BUNDSCHUH and SPEAKER McCORMACK RASH 
when Hugh Devorc resigned to ac­cept a coaching job in professional football. 
Rev. Arthur S. Harvey CSC '47 is taking a busman's holiday. After producing nearly 50 Campus plays since 1954—and directing most of them—he has been awarded a sab­batical leave for 1968-69. And he will use it to visit college and uni­versity drama schools and repertory companies throughout the US and Europe. 

iL iL St. 

House Speaker John McCormack was among those at the ceremony when the first ND Martin Luther King memorial scholarships were presented in Washington, DC. Re­cipients are Harold S. Rush of Chi­cago, Christopher C. Wycliff of Washington, DC and John W. Banks-Brooks of Hastings, Neb., all incoming freshmen. The scholar­ships are sponsored by Mr. and Mrs. John J. Bundschuh Sr of NYC. 
Joseph Mulligan '59 has been named an admissions counselor at Notre Dame. He comes to the position after three years of teaching at Elder HS in Cincinnati. 
John R. Rash, former general man­ager of the Hayes Hotel, Jackson, Mich., has been named manager of the Morris Inn. Rash, 49, is a graduate of Hillsdale (Mich.) Col. and brings with him 23 years' ex­perience in the hotel industry. He replaces Colin D. B. Tutt who re­signed in April. 
The machines got more sophisti­cated, but Bro. Cosmas Guitly CSC kept abreast as head of ND's phys­ics shop for 26 years before retiring this summer. One of his last proj­ects was making fittings for the $1.8 million "atom smasher" now being installed on Campus. Brother Cosmas, 74, is a native of Switzer­land where he was a machinist. He came to the US in 1920 and settled in Wisconsin Rapids, Wis. before joining the Holy Cross Brothers in 1940. 
BROTHER COSMAS 
FATHER HARVEY 

ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 
5, 

You Can't Tell the Players Without Their Hats 
MAN, THERE WERE HATS galore. All 
over the place. Dome busters as 

well as mini toppers. And chapeaux 
of more different colors than even 
the rainbow. In all a record 1,327 
were handed out to Alumni Jvme 7­
9 at "Reunion '68." 
Gold colored for 1918ers, silver 

hats for the Class of '43 and in be­
tween there ^vere red, green, blue 
and purple caps for the other return­
ing grads whose class years end in 3 
or 8. And then there were the chaps 
wearing tlic white hats — the "good 
guys" from 1928, so they said. 
Ten classes returned for the three-
day rendezvous. And back in Dome-
land they found plenty of fun and 
frolic, football films, familiar faces, 
a full-blown campus and even a frank, 
forthright afternoon of discussion of 
change in the Church. In-bet\veen­
times there were the houi-s Just for 
easygoing talk under the canvas. It 
was indeed a full weekend. 
There also were the sobering mo­ments, one in particular that per­vaded the entire weekend. That was the death of Senator Robert Kennedy and his burial Saturday of the Re­union. In his memory numerous Masses were said on the Campus while the Notre Dame family nation­wide joined in prayer. 
Despite tlie tragedy, the festi\'ities went on. They officially began — Thursday morning under clear skies and moderate temjseratures that pre­vailed throughout the weekend — with the arrival of Notre Dame mon­ogramers. Their traditional golf outing attracted 180 old-time coaches and athletic heroes of bygone days. .-Vmong them, were Don Miller, Creighton Miller, Pat Filley and Cor­win Clatt. John Murphy '38 was elected president of tlie Monogram Club and Bill Earley '43 was chosen secretaiy-treasurer. 
From Every Direction. The onslaught came Friday when the majority of returning grads began filling up Alum­ni. Dillon, Morrissey, Howard, Lyons and Walsh Halls. The 50-Year Club-bei-s along with the Class of 1918 received the VIP treatment as they — together with wives — were housed in the Morris Inn. 
Class dinners and all the accom­panying shenanigans highlighted the Friday evening programs. Nationally known Alumni took the platform at tlieir respective Class gatherings and teamed witli University officials to present perspectives on various topics from within as \vell as beyond the Cainpus. 
Issues — bordering on the contro­versial — also were given an airing Saturday when the annual Alumni Seminar convened in the Center for Continuing Education. For three hours facultj' panelists presented papers on die question, "Has Change Run Away with the Church?" Floor debate followed and Alumni soon found themselves in die spirit of chal­lenge and answer so characteristic of today's University. 
Hours earlier at an unprecedented Reunion-wide luncheon in the North Dining Hall, Notre Dame's president. Rev. Theodore M. Hcsburgh CSC, delivered his annual "State of the University" address. Normally the president addresses the Reunioneers at the Saturday evening banquet while bo.K lunches on the lawn have cus­tomarily been the noon menu. This year the president's prior commit­ments necessitated die shift. 
Felicitations. At the luncheon Alumni Assoc. Pres. Richard A. Rosenthal '54 presented Father Hesburgh with a special citation commemorating the 25th anniversaiy of his ordination. The antique-framed plaque read: 
"We admire you as our president, perpetuating and elevating during your administration the values of this place, always cherished by us. But, we honor you especially now for never losing your sense of priesdiood in the midst of the ovenvhelming pres­sures of your presidency. You continue every day, in Christ with love, to ex­perience the joy and to manifest the humility of your calling. 
"It is with deep gratitude that we, as sons of the University you have so well served, commemorate your priest­
hood and ofTer each month for per­
petuity the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass 
for your specific intentions. In this 
way we thank you, and we praise you 
as a priest forever, according to the 
Ancient Order." 
Father Hesburgh, a member of the 
Class of 1938 which had its 30-year 
Reunion that weekend, was ordained 
June 24, 1943. Seated at the head 
table and participating in the presen­
tation were six past presidents of the 
Alumni Association: Thomas F. 
B>'me '28, Francis Wallace '23, J. 
Patrick Canny '28, John C. O'Connor 
'38, Oliver H. Hunter '43 and PhiUp 
J. Faccenda '51. 
Other Tributes. Special honors also 
were a part of the Saturday evening 
banquet. Members of the Class of 
1918 attending their golden anni­
versary Reunion received special 
miniature diplomas from Rev. Ed­
mund P. Joyce CSC, executive vice-
president of the University. 
Presented to the 24 members of the Class who attended, the diplomas recognized their status as loyal Alum­ni in their service "to God, country and fellow man..." Adding their con­gratuladons to this year's 50-year group were the evening's guest speak­ers. Coaches Johnny Dee and Ara Parseghian. 
Duffers had their moment, too, when awards were made to winners of tlie Annual Alumni Golf Tourna­ment. Gene Fehlig '43 took home top prize in the 36-hole tournament with his 141 gross score. In the senior 18­hole tournament Tom Jordan '38 won honors with a 74 while in the junior clajs Joe Gaucher '48 was also low with a 74. 
Sunday morning Mass in Sacred Heart Church concluded the three-day holiday. Rev. Joseph Fey CSC, University chaplain, joined eight other Alumni priests for the concelebrated Mass and delivered the homily to the late Senator Kennedy. 
The Campus then emptied and the players left . . . not one of the 1327 hats remained . . . big, little, red or blue . . . Besides, what's one without the other? 
Golden Class of '18 Joins the Ranks of the 50-Year Club 
By GEORGE WAAGE '18 
This is the toughest report I have had to submit. The reason is that I'm supposed to report on the Golden Jubilee Reunion in 700-1000 words. It would take that many and more to report on the wis-cs that attended! The lovely ladies must have been Miss Americas 50 years ago. The Morris Inn was loaded with charm and it was a first for the ladies to be invited to a Class Dinner. 
Rev. C. J. WILLIAMS invited Head Coach .'\ra Parseghian, Ticket Mgr. ROB­ERT CAHILL '34 and JAMES E. ARM­STRONG '25 who addressed us after dinner. 
Our first event was Thursday night, the Monogram Club cocktail party, dinner and meeting at Morris Inn. Those attend­ing were Father Williams, BILL .\NDRES, CHARLIE CALL. JIM LOGAN, PETE NOONAN, PETE RONCHETTI, FR.\NK RYDZEWSKI, JOHN VOELKER and WAAGE. 
Friday, Saturday and Sunday were all planned out—"go here be there at such a time"—^and all had a real good time. Our Class stayed at the Morris Inn where our Class Dinner was. Those present included Ruth Call, Margaret Harbert, Marie Kazus, Phyllis Lemmcr, Jcannette Logan, .Justine Rodrigues, Anne Ronchetti and Marie Seng. 

Saturday the big event was the Annual .•\Iumni Banquet at 6:30 pm. After dinner Rev. EDMUND P. JOYCE CSC called the Class of 1918 to the head table and presented each one of us with an honorary diploma which, beyond a doubt, will be cherished by all of us. This was another first by our Class and I believe it will be­come an annual award for the Golden .Jubilee Class. 
.•^ftcr dinner we returned to Morris Inn and joined the ladies and Pete Ronchetti brought out his "squeeze box"—the same he had while in school—and you can be­lieve me from then on the air %vas filled with old songs. 
Gotta give thanks to your Class com­mittee and especially Rev. Charles J. Wil­liams for time and effort spent to make our Reunion successful and most interest­ing. Gotta thank M.'VX G. K.'\ZUS for his great idea of honorary' diplomas. Max also brought with him two 1914 huge pano­rama pictures which will be turned over to ND. 
Honestly a lot of you guys were missed. AVe express our thanks for a wire and letter from Dr. EDWARD J. REYN­OLDS who wrote "I enclose a token pay­ment on the interest of my debt to the University and I hope that you enjoy a \-er>' happy reunion." I know that Reyn­olds would have enjoyed seeing classmates Dr. RENE RODRIGUES and Dr. NEIL "WHITEY" WHALEN and their wives. Both couples have made world tours. 
Thanks also have to go to JAMES D. COONEY '59, executive secretary of the Alumni Assoc, and to JOHN P. THURIN '59, editor of the ALUJINUS. NOW that you have been welcomed into the 50-Ycar Club I hope to see you on Campus in .June, 1969. May you live to be 100 with health, con­tentcdncss and peace. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 
FATHER JOYCE and 1918ERS 

THE MEN and THEIR LADIES Another ND diploma. Nice to have some gals around the place. 
PARSEGHIAN, CAHILL, FATHERS MURRAY and WILLIAMS, WAAGE Celebrities at the Friday dinner. 
V 
FATHER HESBURGH and DICK ROSENTHAL Only a 25th anniversaryl 
^i^ :i> 

FATHER THORNTON  
50-YEAR  DINNER SCENE  and  REUNIONEERS  REV. CHARLES DOREMUS  '06  
The service v/as swell.  Much to remember.  Another familiar face.  

ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 
Both the Long and the Short of It for '23: Great! 
By LOUIS BRUGGNER '23 Never have '23 men met in closer cama­raderie then at our 45th Reunion. The attrition of the years on our roster was fully accounted for by the deaths in the inter\'ening five years. Friday night's Class Dinner at the South Bend Coimtry Club (as it was in 1963 and 1958) was a huge success and %vas at­tended by 48 of our 52 registrants. (Four men did not check in until Saturday). Outgoing Pres. FRANCIS WALL.A.CE presided at the meeting and at the installa­tion of our new officers: W. EDMUND SHEA, president: EDWARD P. KREIM­ER, vice-president: LOUIS V. BRUGG­NER, secretar>',- and JOSEPH W. NYI­KOS, treasurer. 
A full turnout attended the Class Mass in Howard Hall chapel Saturday morning, celebrated by REV. LEO WARD CSC. So enthusiastic were the reunionists of '23 that already plans were being laid for our Golden .Anniversar)' Reunion in 1973. Then we will be quartered in Morris Inn, with special attention planned for wives wishing to attend. At the 1968 gathering, six of the distaff "classmates" spent a convivial Friday evening at dinner at Morris Inn. Joining the South Bend hostesses, Mrs. .Arthur Diedrich, Mrs. Louis V. Bruggner and Mrs. Edward P. Kreimer, were Mrs. Daniel D. Lynch, Mrs. Cyril Neff and Mrs. Dan Nolan. These six say they'll be back in five years. 
Deo volente. 
The 52 reunionists of record are FRANCIS BREEN, M.A.RTIN BREN­N.\N, LOUIS V. BRUGGNER, GLEN CARBERRY, PAUL CASTNER, RICH­ARD E. CORDRAY. J. DANIEL CUL­HANE, LOUIS A. DeSMET, ARTHUR 
CORNELIUS PFEIFFER and DR. CHARLES MORAN Close camaraderie. 

J. DIEDRICH, JOSEPH F. DONALD­SON, FRANK S. DORIOT, WILLIAM T. FITZGERALD, FRANK J. GALVIN, WILLIAM C. GAYNOR, CYRIL J. HARTM.\N, EUGENE M. HINES, BRUCE J. HOLMBERG, WALTER J. KENNEDY, EDWARD P. KREIMER, THOMAS J. LEE, DANIEL D. LYNCH, JAMES R. M.\RTIN, MATTHEW D. McENIRY, LYLE H. MILLER, DR. CH.'VRLES T. MORAN, CYRIL W. NEFF, JOHN W. NIEMIEC, DANIEL 
P. NOLAN, JOHN C. NORTON, JO­SEPH W. NYIKOS, GEORGE A. ?\T­TERSON, FR-^NCIS W. PEDROTTY, CORNELIUS W. PFEIFFER, THOMAS PLOUFF, JEFFREY V. POWERS, MURIL^Y POWERS, ROBERT G. QUINN, EDGAR J. RAUB, WALTER 
F. RAUBER, WALTER I. RAUH. D.AN­lEL T. REG.\N, LEO F. RIEDER, JOHN 
M. ROHRBACH, E. MERLIN ROL­WING, W. EDMUND SHEA. JOHN B. STEPH.AN, JESSE N. TORRES, WIL­LIAM L. VOSS, GEORGE I. WACK, FRANCIS WALLACE. REV. LEO R. WARD CSC and J.\MES F. YOUNG. 
Joining us intermittently were GEORGE KERVER '22, .JAMES R. MEEHAN '24 and RAYMOND J. SCHUBMEHL '22. 
Our "box score" as of June 1, 1968 is as follows: 
Xamcs 
on Old 
Com­Stu­
mence­dents 
Pictures ment p re­
in 23 Pro­nted. 
Dome gram etc. 

Names on record 234 201 105 Deceased 83 79 32 Living 151 122 73 Lost Contact 16 12 
15 

Present Mailing List 135 112 61 
(Note: many names appear in more than one category.) 

Bill Dwyer Describes the Reunion Atmosphere Aptly 
By LOUIS BUCKLEY '28 The corridors and the basement of Walsh Hall again are still. The trampled grass on the Walsh Hall lawn is outgrowing its bruises. And miles away in all directions from Honduras, Central America, to Min­nesota and from Florida and New York to California, the men of '28 carry the memories of another great Reunion. BILL DWYER e.\-presscd the views of each of the 180 men of '28 who were present when he obser\'ed, "The '28 Re­union of 1968 was again a phenomenon of human relationships. Where else could you possibly find such a delightful kaleido­scopic conglomeration of conviviality, thoughtful talk, mature good humor and sheer sophomoric fun? The threads of spir­ituality so strongly woven through the fabric of fcstiveness gave it balance and set it apart. Every hour, even the wee small ones in the Walsh Hall basement Saturday and Sunday am, brought fun and happy memories." The close-knit fellowship which char­acterizes the '28 Class was evident from the early arrival Thursday of more than 50 classmates to late Saturday when the last of the 180 joined us, thus swelling at­tendance to over 56 percent of the living classmates who were graduated 40 years before. I believe this breaks all records of Reunion attendance at Notre Dame. Al­though we had 10 more classmates at our 25th Reunion, the percentage attendance is much greater because 63 classmates have died since 1953. 

The '28 Reunion opened officially with a Mass for early arrivers Friday morning offered by REV. ANDY MULREANY CSC and served by VINCE CARNEY. As additional classmates arrived Friday, each joined the superb gathering of old friends at our old home, where each relaxed and resumed his old place with the companions of 40 years ago. 
Friday evening we joined together at the Class Dinner in the beautiful Center for Continuing Education. JOHN IGOE did his usual superb job as toastmastcr. The report by Treas. JOE LANGTON indicated an excellent response to his ef­forts in securing funds for keeping the Class on the road and in building up our Mass fund. 
The classmates selected by JIM AL­LAN'S nominating committee were elected Class officers for the next five years as folloivs: Pres. EDW.-MID R. QUINN; Treas. T- JOSEPH LANGTON; Sec. LOUIS F. BUCKLEY: and vice-presidents GEORGE E. LEPPIG (South), WIL­LIAM B. JONES (East), WILLIAM K. DWYER (Midwest) and CHRISTIE FL.\NAG.\N (West). We were pleased to have GEORGE COURY announce at the '28 Class Dinner that he planned to donate $40,000 to the University in honor of the 40th anniversary of the Class of '28. 
Your secretary was surprised and deeply moved when he was given a most generous gift with a card carrying the notation "The entire Class of '28 loves you much." My wife Pauline and I want to thank the thoughtful classmates who were responsible for this wonderful present to us. We will remember you when we use the funds for a trip to Eastern Europe this summer. 
The visit to the Grotto after the good time at the Class Dinner was a spiritual highlight. The rosary led by Fathers MULRE.ANY and McSHANE with each of us holding a lighted candle was very impressive. 
The large turnout, including some 20 wives of classmates. Saturday morning at Sacred Heart Church at the Mass for our deceased classmates was most gratifying. We joined in the concelcbrated Mass by Fathers Mulreany, McShane and FITZGER.ALD, with one of JOHN LIT-ZENGER's 11 children as one of the servers, and with TONY REILLY as the other, GEORGE SCHEUER as lector, FRANK CRE.\DON leading the group in singing and VINCE CARNEY as organ­ist. 
Saturday evening we joined the Reunion Parade, 180 strong, with a Class banner and each classmate wearing his gold tie, blue shirt and '28 plaque to the Alumni banquet where we let the returning Alumni of all Classes know we were there. Follow­ing the banquet, we saw pictures taken at previous Reunions which brought back fond memories of classmates who are no longer with us—such as JOHN RICK.\RD who died in April. 
We were honored and impressed by the 1928 e-xhibit in the Memorial Library which included copies of books written 
'28ERS EVERYWHERE YOU LOOKED Hearty welcome for the 40th anniversory group. 
— if Somewhat Effusively! 
by '28 men, our Class surveys and the 
newspaper articles from the Chicago Sun-
Times and the South Bend Tribune re­
garding our survey. Incidentally, a few days 
before our Reunion, the Chicago Sun-
Times devoted the cover and most of 
their Midwest Magazine section to BILL 
DWYER and the St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
carried a long article on ED DEAN. Both 
of these articles related these men to our 
Class survey, to the Class of '28 and to our 
approaching Reunion. 
It was a pleasure to have sons of class­mates attending Reunions of younger Classes visit us during the weekend. These included sons of JOHN CARLIN, TIM ALLAN, VINCE WALSH, MAX GAU­THIER, LEO McINTYRE and our de­ceased classmates RON RICH and JOHN McMAHON. 
Space docs not permit the acknowledge­ment of all who were responsible for an­other perfect production—our 40th. To mention a few, our thanks go to BERN G.'\RBER for a master job in directing over-all plans; to ED QUINN for han­dling local arrangement in a superb man­ner: to BILL DWYER for an outstanding publicity campaign with the excellent co­operation of the following from whom you received mailings: JOHN FREDERICK, GEORGE KELLEY. TOE BR.\NNON, JOHN IGOE. GENE FARRELL, BERN GARBER, and ED BRENN.'\N. 
Thanks also to HERB McC.'VBE, GEORGE SCHEUER. HOWIE PHALIN, CYP SPORL, SEYMOUR WEIS­
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 
HERGER, GEORGE BE.'VMER, JOHN SHEEDY and FR.-\NK HEGARTY for arranging special Saturday noon luncheons for the engineers, journalists, commerce, '28 LLB, '29 LLB, insurance men and medics respectively; to JOHN R. MUR­PHY for arranging a '28 Class golf tourna­ment; to JOHN WOULFE for the im­pressive "In Memoriam" cards; to JOE LANGTON for a great job as treasurer; to FRANK MEYER and JIM ALL.'\N and his son and all others who took pic­tures of the afTair who will make them available for showing at future Reunions; and to VINCE CARNEY and BERN G.^RBER for obtaining the ties and in­signias for our shirts. 
-Also to the many classmates including LES FLEWELLING. TOM MAHON, BILLY WOOD, CHARLES MURPHY and ART DENCHFIELD who wired or wrote us at ND extending their best wishes and regrets for not being able to attend; tc the three classmates who financed the Class survey: and to JOHN THURIN and his staff in the Alumni Office who did an outstanding job in helping us make this the greatest of all of our Reunions. 
May we hear from those who couldn't make the Reunion? I had many inquiries about these absent '28 men from class­mates who had looked forward to seeing them. These included ED CUNNING­HAM of Los Angeles, who was among the dozen or more who returned for the first time—he was hoping to see his old roommate ED McG.'^ULEY. 
A DRUAAMER AND A PIPER Parading kilties of all sizes. 

PICTURE POSING TIME None the worse after 35 more summers. 
Like Graduation in'33: 
By JOHN HO\T '33 Although the death of Senator Robert F. Kennedy put a somber note on our 35th Reunion, we, in good numbers, did gatlier together to renew old friendships that commenced in 1929. Morrisscy Hall was lilled with more than 100 balding and greying Iicads of men of 1933. We shared the hall with the more sprightly Class of 1938. 
EDDIE ECKERT, JACK HOYT and JUDGE MAURIE LEE arrived early i Thursday to make the preliminary ar-; rangements. Several of the Monogram I men, including R.-\Y BRANCHEAU, I NORM GREENEY and STEVE BAN.AS, i were on Campus Thursday for their activi- :• ties. Most of our forces arrived Friday j morning. j: 
The planning committee, which in-i eluded Eckert, Hoyt, Lee. CHUCK JASK-t ^VHICH, CHARLIE F.ARRIS. LUCIEN i KEMPF, TACK O'SHAUGHNESSY and JIM DANEHY, did a splendid job of ar-; ranging our many activities. • 
ED STEPHAN and ED ECKERT Friday dinner at the Morris Inn. 
ALUMNUS JULY 19^8 AUGUST 

SUNDAY MASS AT SACRED HEART Memorials for those who couldn't make it. 
A Time for Joy and a Time for Tears 
The toastmastcr at our Class Dinner Friday night was CHARLIE FARRIS. The speakers included ED KR.*\USE, EDDIE STEPHAN and REV. CHICK SHEEDY. The new officers as well as the retiring Cl.-.ss officers spoke. 
.Judge Maurice W. Lee, 8309 Loomis 

Blvd., Chicago 60620, was elected by your 
classmates to be our president for the next 
five years. He delivered a splendid ac­
ceptance address. 
Class Masses were arranged and con­ducted Friday. Saturday and Sunday by Fathers JIM DO.N.XELLY and LLOYD TESKE. MSGR. FR.\NK HARRISON and Fathers Chick Shccdy and M.VURICE POWERS participated. 
At Sunday's Mass the seemingly end­less list of our dead was read in a highly emotional ceremony. The latest name to be added was that of big ED VYZRAL, who was gunned down in his office by a crazed client. Judge Lee represented our Class at the funeral. 
The weather was e-xtremely hot and 

ALUMNUS JULY 19i58 AUGUST 
humid but our tender skulls were pro­tected by a tent erected in front of Mor­rissey Hall. PETE CONNELLY and JACK NEUBAUER acted as genial hosts. 
Our turnout should have been better; however, it was an unusual weekend. Our classmates who did not attend missed a wonderful experience. 
Many individuals worked long and hard to make our affair a success. Among them were CHUCK HAFRON and SAM HYDE. Undoubtedly there are many others that I do not know about. My thanks to all of these unsung heroes. 
We must have news to fill your column. ED ACKERMAN, JOE D.-\VEY, ED D.-VILEY and others have volunteered to help. We would be .grateful for your con­tinuing news contributions so you may hear about all of your classmates and not just a few. 
Judge Lee and I pledge our best efforts on your behalf for the next five years. We, in turn, ask for your help. Please com­municate with the Class of 1933 through this, your column. 
A. SLEEPIHEAD Gotta catch as catch can! 



FATHER JIM DONNELLY 
Just one of the backslappers. 
MORRISSEY HQ for the 
livewires. 

CHARLIE BOROWSKI, RAY MEYER and TOM JORDAN An athletic line-up. 
TOUR GUIDE ED CRONIN and CREW My! Some of the skirts you see from bus windows! 
BOB DUBOIS, BURNIE BAUER and AAAY B. HEWUZATHIRTYEIGHTER TOM WUKOVITS Relaxing for Dr. Boyle? Behind his back, yet! 
'38 Says: Eveiyone Ought to Come Back at Least Once 
By BURNIE BAUER '38 It is now TAPs—meaning Tops Anything Previous—for our 30th Reunion! One hundred twenty-two actually showed up though 21 more sent in reservations. De­spite Pres. CHUCK SWEENEY being con­fined at home recuperating from his heart attack of a month previous and Chairman JOHN PLOUFF suddenly going into the hospital for a hernia operation Friday morning, all libations disappeared and all reminiscences were properly inflated. No bones were broken and no one taken sick—not that Dr. AL SHERROD didn't bring his satchel from Te.\as or that psy­chiatrist D.^N BOYLE didn't reach for his notebook as he passed the couches in Mor­rissey toward early morn. But it was truly a serene group guilty only of an occasional understatement. There were numerous philosophical gems uttered as you would naturally expect when such demure lads get together. Among them were P.-\UL NOWAK, slimmed down to a Florida retirement weight of 277; TOMMY AVUKOVITS, happy that his oldest son has just returned safely from his second tour in Vietnam where he (lew over 200 missions; JOE RUETZ, making his first Reunion all the way from Stanford where he is their foundation director but looks like he should be their quarterback. Fathers JOE R.\CE and JACK .AxNTON concelebrated two Masses for us at which our departed classmates were especially remembered. Also here were .JOHNNY MOIR, who got his start in life selling peanuts at basketball games; basketball captain R.AY MEYER, who helped said sales by calling frequent time outs; NEVIN "BUNNY" iicCORMICK. still the Liver­more, California philosopher; and PAUL PSIK who started the first protest move­ment by demanding a fur-lined jock from Mac—^just once! It was the first time, according to CHARLIE CALLAHAN who dug out the information from among his Miami Dolphin brochures, that all the members of our National champion basketball team had been together since school. TOM JORD.^N. JIM CARSON and JOHNNi' O'CONNORS of that same squad were also there. Jordan winning the golf tourney to boot. JOHN MURPHY, on Ara's staff, was elected national president of the Mon­ogram club and his former boss, JOE kUH.^RICH, was back to congratulate him as were teammates D.ANNY SUL­LIV.^N. BILL HORAN, LEN SKO­GLUND, CHUCK BOROWSKI, JOE ZWERS. HARVEY FOSTER, ANDY PUPLIS and JOE DeMATTEO. First time back was Class Vice-pres. GEORGE FITZPATRICK, whose second son just graduated from ND as did DICK 
C.'^RRIG.AN's second son and the sons of TOM MULLIG.\N, DENNY EMAN­UEL, PAUL NOWAK, JOHN O'CON­NOR and TEX HAGGAR. JOHN JEHLE's daughter graduated from St. Mary's as did ED McDONOUGITs and my daughter, Terry. 
Other first timers were ERNIE KLING, aeronautical engineer from Cape Kennedy, Brownson Half philosopher JOE DINEEN from Herkimer, NY who said I could quote him that "ever>-one ought to come back at least once every 30 years" and LEN TOBIN from Harrington, RI who con­tributed §25 to start a Mass fund for our deceased classmates. P.\UL ANDERSON has suggested this fund several times. His idea is just a dollar from each, so if you want to send a buck along with some news I'll handle it. DICK GERL and RAY LONGSTRETH also contributed and any balance left over from the Reunion will be added to give us a good start. 
Longest travelers were from California: BUNNY McCORMICK, TOE RUETZ, PHIL KIRCH, TOM BOND (whose brother JOHN from Franklin, Ohio made it, too), TOM SHEILS and GENE VASLETT. JOHN COLLINS came from Missoula, Mont. None from the five foreign countries made it. 
ED BRENNAN of Paw Paw, Mich, made us feel young by announcing they expect their seventh child soon and JACK SCOTT has a si.x-month-old son. DAVE CROOKS from Kansas City was the only nonclergy bachelor present. 
Among the old-timers who sent in their checks but didn't show were CHUCK BEASLEY, ED BERN.^RD, JOHN CLIF­FORD, CHARLEY DUKES. BOB DOYLE, L.-\RRY EBY, Denny Emanuel, JIM SWEEDYK. HARRY WE.AKLEY, JIM FOLEY, JOHN FRANCIS, PHIL G.\LLETTA. ED HAGGAR, M.A.RTIN HUSUNG, TOM MAKER (who phoned me from Boston that he was coming), JACK MAHONEY, JOE M.\NIX, WALT M.-\RSHALL and JIM DRISL.\NE. Wot happened? 
Continuing their record of making every Reunion were JOE MOORE, JOHN BOURKE, HAL L.ANGTON (now a race­horse owner), DON CURRIER, TOM HUGHES (who super\-ised my emceeing at the Friday Nile dinner). TONY SULESKI and WALT MONACELLI. 
Other faithful who returned again in­clude Kokomo's PAT C.\REY. Brooklyn's ED CONDON. DAVE CONNOR. JOHN COTTINGH-AM, BUB CROWLEY (also a racehorse owner), FRANK DELANEY (Cookie King), JIM D.\UGHERTY (Bristol, Tenn. real estate scion), REGGIE DE BRIENZA, JAY DUTMERS, Mich­igan solicitor general BOB DERENGO­SKI,TOM ELDER, BUD SHERWOOD, JOHN THOMAS, JOE THORNBURG, upper New York's ED UNIACKE, Florida's NED FISHWIEK, TED FLAN­AGAN, TOM FOY, DAN GIBBS. DICK HENNESSY, FRANK HIGGINS, JOHN KANE, OWEN KANE, ED KAVA­NAUGH, JACK LEADBETTER, JERRY LEDVINA, RUSS LONGON, JOHN LYNCH, FRANK M.-VYS, Texans JOHN POORE. FRANK PRUSHA, CLARK REYNOLDS, KEN ROWE, FRANK RUSSELL, BOB REILLY (who stopped in for one hour on his way through), BOB SHAY and Hoosiers TED SWEENEY, Bob Whitecotton and Vem Ruge. 
Great credit for the success of the Re­union should go to BOB DuBOIS and his wife Rita and local committee heads. Bob set up contacts in every state and handled registration all the way through. Rita hosted the wives at a cocktail party and dinner Friday night. DON FISHER, BILL GIBBONS, JIM LAHEY and .JAKE BURKE took care of the cocktail hour arrangements and breakfasts. DON HICiCEY prepared the memorials and ED CRONIN drove the sight-seeini? bus. CELLY BALL, LOUIS ANDERSON, JOHN MON.AGH.^ and DON SMITH were on the reception committee. 
Maybe it's our age, but probably it's the times and Notre Dame's great growth that caused the academic scene to attract almost as much play as the golf course. Father Hcsburgh's eulogy at a Mass for Robert Kennedy Friday night and his talk on ND at a Saturday brunch were worth the trip alone according to such men of letters as NICK LAMBERTO, Iowa's greatest journalist; LARRY DILLON of Florida; CAS VANCE of NY; and JOE TIMMERMAN of Worcester, Mass. So said SCOTT RE.\RDON, DICK SCAN­NELL and BILL MURPHY who were among those who attended the Saturday afternoon panel on "Changes in the Church, World and Notre Dame." 
As we said our long good-byes, I sensed a new pride in many, not only for the part that ND has played in their lives but for the part ND now is playing in molding the changing world of today. Some ex­pressed doubts, but more fascination at the headlong bold plunge our school has taken into the arena of modem life and thought. 
Rev. Joe Race, in his homily, hit the key when he said men of ND and especially the Class of '38, though older in years, are just as young in spirit and as eager to meet the challenges of the world today as when we first said "what though the odds be great or small, Notre Dame's spirit will win over all!" 
See you all—God willing—^in 1973. 
ED CRONIN and DON HICKEY 
Say, do ya think we could get . . . our picture in three times? 
ALUMNUS JULY 1958 AUGUST 
Secretary Kaiser's Wife Reports on Sleeping Sicliness; 
By THE KAISERS 
The Class of 1943 has been had. When my husband. FRAN^K K.MSER, was named corresponding secrctar>% little did they realize his strong motivation toward procrastination. In fact, Frank is still ad­dressing his 1950 Christmas cards. I must admit that at times he does display extreme vigor—a few weeks ago in a sudden burst of energy he managed to discard his Willkie buttons. I hope HEINIE SCHRExN'KER '42 isn't disappointed in him. 
Frank has been sleeping since Reunion time and copy deadline is near so I will have to cover Reunion events as he mut­tered them in his sleep. 
Lyons Hall served as the headquarters and Thursday arrivals numbered about 30. BILL E.A.RLEY led choir practice till the early am. Friday morning many toured the new athletic center which is to be completed in time for the ND-UCL.-V basketball opener. The balance of the day was spent with a never-ending flow of choice liquid refreshments amidst a never-ending flow of reminiscing. 
Friday evening's activities started with a trek to the North Dining Hall for a won­derful cocktail Iiour—complete with or­chestra. Class Dinner followed, an espe­cially fine one. as the local chairmen didn't spare the buck. 

Class Pres. OLLIE HUNTER (or is it Hubbard?) paid welcome to the group and introduced JOHN "MAC" McALLISTER who is retiring after 40 years as athletic equipment manager. Mac received a ter­rific ovation and was presented a suitable .gift. 
JOHN J. GILLIGAN, our US Senator-to-be from Ohio, and EDWARD V. H.\NR.\HAN, former US Attorney and Cook County State's .-\ttorney-to-be, wired that they were forced to cancel their Re­union attendance to attend the funeral of Senator Robert Kennedy. 
JOHN McH.'\LE, assistant to the com­missioner of major league baseball, sent a telegram stating he would miss the Re­union because of the Major League Free Agent Plaver Draft in New York. FBI Agent TONY MALONEY, San Diego, wired he had been subpoenaed by the gov­ernment to appear in US District Court and was forced to cancel Reunion plans. 
A card from BILL BONYAI stated he could not attend because of illness. A later report to the Alumni Office tells of Bill's death .^pril 20. He is survived by his wife, Kathrjn, 120 W. River St., Milford, Conn. 06460, a son and five daughters. 
The June issue also reported the death of Dr. J.UIES F. HARRINGTON April 
22. Jim is survived by his wife, 2613 Rolling Ridge Dr., Lo.gansport, Ind. 46947, four daughters and two sons. 
Also listed in the June issue was the death of FR.A.NK M. "MOE" HERBERT JR, '47, May 16. He was publisher and treasurer of the Allantic Monthly. The sympathy and prayers of their classmates arc extended to the families of these fine men. 
W.A.LT McN.\M.\RA wrote from 338 Gordon Way, Los Altos, Calif. 94022 that he sends his greetings and regrets he couldn't make the 25th. ROBERT MOR­RILL, 89 Malvern Rd., Stamford, Conn., reported urgent business precluded his attending. Maj. ROBERT C.\RVER's reserve unit had been called up and he sent regrets. (121st Combat Support Sqdn, Lockbourne AFB. Ohio 43217.) 
FR.\NK STE\VART planned to be in Europe at that time. Lt. Col. GEORGE B.ARRETT's wife wrote he would be in Vietnam at Reunion time. THOM FARMER of 205 AVellington Rd., DcWitt, NY sent his regrets. DUTCH HOFSTET­TER moved from Ohio to California and was unable to attend. 
Business interests did not permit ROBERT B.\KER to attend. C.\RL COCO wrote from Lake Charles, La. that he could not make it. 
Thanks for a job well done went to 
BOB MUELLMAN BILL EARLEY JOHN BOSAK and ED HOLLAND 
Plenty of familiar faces, bubbling blarney and lovely lemonade. 
ALUMNUS JULY ^96B AUGUST 

Cause Ascribed to Overdose of '43 Get-Together 
retiring Class officers Ollie Hunter (or Hubbard—Frank's still asleep), presi­dent; JIM MADIGAN, treasurer; JACK AVIGGINS, secretar>-; and area vice-presi­dents BILL MIDDENDORF, Bill Earley, HERB MELTON and TOM COONEY. 
JACK BERRY, the Rcnial barrister from Chicago, was elected president of the in­credible Class of '43. JACK BREHMER, South Bend Foundr>' president, will serve as its treasurer. And poor old Frank Kaiser, Chatsworth, III., population 1304—eight are Kaisers—will try to sene as secretar)'. .As a former teacher I feel it my duty to inspire you with a few words: "The only way he can get information to put in the colunm is from YOU. Pass on any news—marriages, births, jobs, job changes and advancements, new addresses, ND .games you attend and those you meet, etc. At least drop a line and tell him that you arc still operating." 
The Class Dinner was followed by a lawn party at the Lyons arch where re­freshments, music and conversation pre­vailed until the wee hours. 
Saturday morning (8 o'clock—oh, what a short night) members of the Silver Anni­versary Class of 1943 were honored guests at the President's Breakfast. At that time Father Hcsburgh was presented a por­trait and a commemorative clock. 
.After breakfast the Class assembled at the Grotto for Mass offered for its de­ceased members. Mass Concelebrants were Fathers ROBERT HOFFMAN. KEVIN O'DOUGHERTY, TOM FINUCANE, BEDE FITZPATRICK and GEORGE BERN.ARD—all members of the Class of '43. Tom Cooney ser\'ed as lector. 

Next on the agenda was the Class picture taken on the steps of the old library. A brunch for all Alumni was held in the North Dining Hall with Father Hesburgh delivering his annual "State of the University" address. 
Your new secretary, '43's own Rip Van AVinkle, has awakened enough to carry on, so I shall say adieu, but no doubt I shall be acting secretary again from time to time. 
Jane, Wife of the Secretary 

First, thanks to my spouse for beginning my first ALU.MNUS report. I find the Re­union difficult to describe. You who were there don't give a damn to have it re­peated and those of you who were un­fortunate enough to miss our Silver An­niversary just won't believe it. 
Saturday afternoon Lyons arch ser\'ed as the outdoor theater for presentation of Oscars. JOHN WOOD, a civie now work-jn.g under contract with Uncle Sam, came from Saigon and received our travel award. This was closely contested by Rev. Bcde 
JACK BREHMER. OLLIE HUNTER, FATHER HESBURGH, BOB LeMENSE, FRANK CONFORTI Silver anniversary presentation. 
MASS AT THE GROTTO Remembrance of ones passed. 
Fitzpatrick who journeyed from Tokyo. Zeke plans to return to Saigon in July and Father Bede will resume his teaching duties in Japan by September. 
Bill Earley, short-distance award winner (412 yards), has also attended the most Reunions. Dome award, not to be confused with our yearbook, went to RAY SCHOONHOVEN with ED HOLLAND in close pursuit. Prolific award was a tie between BLAIR McGOWAN and Bill Middendorf—12 each. Judge FRANK CONFORTI ruled that only one prize was available and the wnner will be determined upon first notification of any change in number. 
Reunion parade to the Alumni Banquet, led by Color Guard and Scottish Band, was the beginning of a long-to-be-re­mcmbered evening. 
Ara Parse.ghian briefed us on the foot­ball squad's potential and introduced his aides. JOHN DEE paid tribute to his basketball squad of the past season and is quite optimistic about his 1968-69 team with the possibility of three sophomores in the starting line-up. Congratulations to our own GENE FEHLIG, winner over 508 entrants in the golf tourney. 
Sunday was a day for Mass, farewells, promises to return in '73 and a race to the airport. GEORGE McQUISON and I made a check of the Campus to find if any of our group had become lost. While on tour we found the Michiana Kennel Club holding a dog show in Stepan Center, but found no '43ers. Too bad the show could not have been in front of Lyons Saturday when BILL McCAUGHEY, CORNEY JOHNSON and BUCK MUELLNLAN, to mention a few, could have given the canine fanciers a little variety with a song and dance act. 
Congratulations to the 167 men who were able to return for our Silver Anni­versary; 212 indicated their intentions to retiurn. Your being there was what made it a success. The program ^vas excellent, weather was good and the price was right. In fact, CHARLIE BUTLER. ROGER CUMMINGS, Bill Middendorf and LEO LEWIS agreed that the price was the greatest bargain since Kaiser's Place sold 12 ounces of Michelob for 10 cents. Our only disappointment was that there were so many unable to attend. Someone asked about everyone from Abaldo to Zitnik. 
We are interested in each and every one of you, what you are doing, your family, your business, etc. Dr. SAM ROWBOT­TOM. GEORGE HUTH and BILL BRADY were among those attending their first Reunion. I know that I must have missed some others; write your corres­pondent and give him hell for omitting you. 
The Class of '43 can be proud of the estimated total value of the silver anni­versary bequest pro.gram for our class— §244,300.00. 
The following men deserve thaiiks and commendation for their work in connection with the reunion: .Jack Brehmer, Bud Dudley, Ed Murray, Frank Conforti, Bill Earley, Dick Diltz, Bob LeMense, Bill Middendorf, Herb Melton, Tom Cooney, Tony Maloney, Walt Ziemba and Hans Helland. 
Keep the mail coming! Keep the Class in mind! And meet outside Gate 5 before and after home games. 
JIM MELLO and ENTERTAINER  ZIG CZAROBSKI and UNIDENTIFIED ADMIRER  More faces in the  
All accordion to Hoyle.  If you weren't there, you don't know if he "took it all off"  crowd.  f  
24  ALUMNUS JULY 19«8 AUGUST  

'48 Secretaiy Reports It Was 'Our Finest Performance' 
By GEORGE KEENAN '48 

Within the Octave of the Reunion, it is time to get a column in to give all the 20­Year Reunion news to those who did not make it and to review it for those who did. 
This %\fas without a doubt our finest performance as far as turnout and overall good weekend. We had 102 register and many were the old standbys but there were some who were at their first reunion. From the looks of things our 25-Ycar Reunion should be great and we arc going to shoot for a turnout of 500. All we have to do is get everyone enthused about it. We have too many who have never showed up; probably the time of the year is rough but it shouldn't be that way every year. 
For the past five years I have been writing this column, reporting on what has been going on and gearing it toward Reunion time. Well, it worked out that I will be doing it again for the next five years, although someone mentioned "for life." I have not determined whether or not someone is drawing a bead on me, but I do appreciate the confidence placed in me by the electoral college and I hope to keep the pace going—but, as always, I'll need your help. 
Our 20-Year Reunion was successful be­cause we kept writing about it and be­cause of the two local chairmen who vol­unteered to help out. JOHN DiG.\NN and DON PATRICK did a terrific job with the local arrangements. This was noticed and appreciated by everyone. 
Our Class was not one of the bigger classes at the Reunion as far as representa­tion but we were one of the largest classes to graduate. The Classes of '28 and '58 smothered everyone (see their sections for turnout) but the next time we want to be right up there and it can be done. While not the biggest, we did get to have the lead position behind the band and antique cars to the All-Classes Dinner Saturday night so our presence was noted and espe­cially so because everyone had his Sunday suit on. 
We had terrific weather. The Indiana heat was on full blast but we had plenty of cooling refreshment. Our cocktail party and Class Dinner Friday night was the highlight of the weekend and was well attended and enjoyed. The humidity of the weekend, the flowing golden nectar, the light shower, were all nothing when compared to the wetness suffered by JOHNNY LUJACK when JOE LYNCH was carr>-ing a 12-quart bucket of water towards ZIG CZ.AROBSKI and Zig faked to the right and the bucket went to the left and there stood John. It just shows how unsafe it is to be in a crowd today because Zig had just finished being inter­viewed by John Lujack on matters of general interest. 
The entertainment at our Class Dinner was highlighted by the "Go-Go" dancers, Lou Gasper and Gasper Urban. This pair, which grossed about 500 pounds, had the makings of a great team, "Gasper and Urban." Zig Czarobski, in his address to the class in size 56 shorts (extra long), love beads, sombrero, thermos, appetizers, etc., directed his remarks to the current domestic situation and stressed greater love for and with your neighbor. 
GEORGE CONTVOR told some interest­ing stories of the Class of '48 football players who played in various postseason bowl games, all-star games and pro ball. 
The first to arrive on Campus were GEORGE KENNARD and JOE FLOOD. George came all the way from Florida by car and Joe drove from St. Paul to get in some early golf. Soon afterward NEIL KELLY, JIM MELLO and LEONARD HART arrived. Arrivals were coming in at all times from all directions in all modes of transportation. BILL GRIFFY came the farthest as he now lives in Pasadena, Calif. BURT .APKER brought his son with him all the way from Phoenix. RUSS FARREL brought his sons also to take in the sights of the beautiful and growing Campus. BOB MOR-^N, our ex-ofBcio class photographer, was all over the place taking pictures. LEO COSTELLO and BUNKY REG.^N led all chow lines. 
JOE O'TOOLE came a long way, too; Hollywood, Calif, is his new home town. Joe never misses and can always be counted on to be leadin" in the activity department. JACK COONEY. FR.'VNK DEBITTETO, TONY MISTRETTA, FRENCHY COR­RELL, PAUL CARTRIGHT, JACK CARVIL, WALT HUTGHENS, BEN KOEBEL and a host of others did an excellent job of being night watchmen. They watched every night go by until it became a morning. CORNIE CL.\TT, JACK and LOU AMBERG sen,ed as prefects of the second floor at Howard Hall only to be sure that no one got any sleep. 
JIM MELLO, who thinks he is the suc­cessor to Dean Martin, was voted the best dressed. JIM McCONN and his rainbow wardrobe as bright as the stars of Texas was only a runner-up in the fashion parade. TOM HERBERT drove in with BOB TAYLOR. 
Space does not allow me to cover every­one and everything but we'll tell you more about it all soon again. Oh yes, H.ANK DiGIROLAMO made it this year again. The rest of you, think about what you missed! 
230 Fun Lovers from the Class of '53 
made it in from Mexico City via Chicago. Some of us headed down to the Grotto and others to the Indiana Club. DORTCH DORINI, BOB MULLEN and others were greeted at the airport by GERRY HAMMES, JOE DES.\UTELS and gang, complete with several, no, many, six packs. To be perfectly truthful, room 116 in Alumni hasn't gotten any better with age. I had forgotten how humid Indiana can get in the summer, how small those bunk beds were and what a long jaunt it was to the bathroom. 
Friday morning opened with golf and the beer started flowing at 10 am. The golf course was in great shape; I got in 18, playing with JOHN SELLICK, John Jr and DR. JOE SULLIV.\N '28. Back to the beer and the planners did a good job with nice, large name cards which every­one wore; without them it would have been a tough deal. The hair is getting thinner, grayer; the belt lines are growing and the rear ends are keeping up! The faces would look vaguely familiar but it's been a long time, so three cheers for the name cards. The names of those who made it are printed elsewhere so I'll merely try to relate some of the happenings. Anyone who was there and wishes to add some lines, please send them in; I'm sure there are some good stories out there I didn't hear about. 
The Class Dinner was Friday night; Joe had a tough time getting us started over there (North Dining Hall), but we finally made it. The speeches were merci­fully short with JERRY MULVIHILL bringing down the house with his dry wit. 
IN REGISTRATION LINE At least one '53er was early. 
BENEATH THE BIG TOP Real gusto. 

By W. F. STUHLDREHER '53 Well, the 15th has come and gone, and what a swell one it was! For those of you who missed it. how can I tell you just how much you missed? For a short time some 230 of the Class of '53 shed families, jobs and creditors and returned to the days of the Campus and the small-size worries of yesteryear. It was really a strange experience in certain ways, almost like entering a time machine; but I can tell you this: .\11 who made it had a grand time and hated to see it end. 
First of all, I would like to single out those who did so much to make this Re­union such a great one. JOE DES.4U­TELS, ED MCCARTHY and JERRY MULVIHILL really carried the ball for the weekend. Joe, of course, was our chairman and was much in presence, doing a good job and making sure the rest of us kept moving. Ed and Jerry shouldered much of the burden of planning the week­end and took care of the many duties that can put you under. The Class of '53 is extremely lucky to have two good men in the South Bend area who are willing to pitch in like Ed and Jerry. 
I'm only allotted 1000 words, and with 200 plus returnees, that only works out to five per man. So I'll cover what I can and continue in the next column. But don't think this lets you olT the hook and you don't have to write in—keep 'em coming. 
A few of us landed Thursday night, I, myself, arriving from Alabama via New York. I thought this might set a weekend ' travel distance record but it didn't hold a candle to C.\RLOS CROWLEY who 
AT THE MASS Starting Saturday on the right foot. 
ED AAcCARTHY 
dlled for one 
more. 
LEO CAHAIAN 
Cleaned up the 
potatoes. 

Were Obseived 'Bucking Up' Remarkably Well 
It was decided we would try to get to­gether after the Pitt game. The time of the season and the availability of a loca­tion contributed to selecting this particular game. You'll be hearing more on this. 
After the dinner, we trooped back to Alumni and the beer, bridge games, poker games and the nonstop game called "Buck-up" (I think), a form of Russian roulette. Some of our Detroit brethren kept it going the clock round: JIM KLINK, JOHN FISH, LOU BASSO, JERRY KELLY, and others who dropped in including DICK McCONNELL. BILL DECRICK and JACK MASON. There's a rumor that Fish actually saw the sun once over the weekend but I personally doubt it; there's a man who came to play cards and succeeded. JIM PATTERSON and LES Z.ACZEK were in several bridge games, as well as my brother Bill and CHUCK STIMMING from Indianapolis. 
The big percentage of the troops sat out under the awning and swapped stories. You either found out you hadn't changed much, like AL DECR.\NE. D.W E MC­ELVAIN, TOM REEDY, JIM HUTCH­INSON, ED O'CONNOR and others— and therefore were considered bums by those of us who had like myself, BL.ACKIE BLACKBURN, JIM PATTERSON, DICK McCONNELL, TOM NOURIE, DAN COLLINS and others. LARRY PRID­MORE told some wonderful stories and never did go to bed. JOHN WATHEN offered to take on all the northerners as usual and JIM FOLEY slipped off a knccler (he says!) and gave himself a bad cut. 
RALPH ARGEN looked like a success­

ful doctor should (is there any other 
kind?) and where in the world were guys 
like BOB BERNER. RAY SMITH, TOM 
BAKER and my old roomie DON SULLI­
VAN? D.\VE SPONSELLER sounded 
like a PhD (which he just got) and 
STAN STASCH sounded like Stan Stasch. 
Saturday morning brought the Class picture and a Mass celebrated by ERNIE B.'\RTELL. Golf took over once again, along with some educational activities; "GOOTCH" LEWINSKI couldn't find JOE DES.^UTELS for our golf match so we split up. with me foining DICK ADLER. BLACKIE BLACKBURN and VIC SNYDER. Pi\T MONTROY played with GOOTCH, along with a couple of other '53ers I can't remember. Either the heat, old age or the beer got to us as we all quit after nine. 
Some more beer and our Class Cocktail Party at 4:30 was a crowded cabin. This set the stage for the big banquet that night. Father Hesburgh had to leave town early so he addressed us at 11 am instead of at the dinner; gave a darned good speech, too. The main speakers at the dinner were Father Joyce, Ara and JOHN DEE. There seems to be little doubt: next year's basketball team might be No. 1 in the country. We'll know more in De­cember; we take on UCLA then when the new Convocation Center opens. And let me tell you, gents, those of you who haven't been back, that hall is really some­thing! Man, it's BIG. Not done yet by a long shot, but you won't believe it when it is. The school has waited a long time for this facility and it truly staggers the imagination. I heard eight million bucks mentioned, with more needed; you can see it's going to be a little different from the old joint. 
Saturday night meant more beer, more card games and more talking over Ae old times. A good many, like myself, didn't make it to bed until the sim was up; I suppose everyone was trying to make all the hours count. There were so many to talk to and fellow classmates to discuss. 
Sunday morning BOB McKINSTRA said Mass for us in the Alumni chapeL It was a nice idea and almost everyone- at­tended. Many farewells after that and perhaps you guys that missed making it will get a better idea of how everyone else felt about the Reunion hearing this tidbit: better than half the Class wants the next one to start Thursday night instead of Fri­day morning. They just felt it only comes by once every five years and let's make the travel count. What do you think? 
We finally have a Class treastiry, may­be. I think so but it depends on how the finances for the Class Cocktail Party turned out. Anyway, we need one badly for Masses, etc. JERRY MULVIHILL has offered to assume responsibility for this effort and his being located in South Bend will be a plus for this activity. If any of you can slip Jerry anything (ad­dress: 645 1st Bank Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 46601), it will be a big help. You'U be hearing more of this in future issues. 
That's it for now, more next column. 
MCCARTHY, DESAUTELS, RBDY, MULVIHILL and STUHLDREHER 
Good times in the time machine. 
Weekend Temperatures Helped the 
By ARTHUR ROULE '58 

As you can see from the list of those who attended, we had a very representative turnout for the 10-Year Reunion June 7, 8 and 9. The heat was stifling but no adverse conditions could have dimmed the enthusiasm. 
The surge of 1958 returnees began Fri­day morning with registration at the ex­cellently equipped Center for Continuing Education. 
The brilliant sunshine and sweltering temperatures lured some of the athletically inclined to Burke Memorial for the Re­union Golf Tournament The more pas­sively inclined reported to the beer tent adjoining Dillon Hall where, in joint effort with the Class of 1963, a Reunion record was established for beer consumption. 
Many men took advantage of the tours of the expanded Campus, including the spectacular new Athletic and Convocation Center scheduled for completion this fall. Friday evening was the occasion of our Class Dinner, preceded by cocktail hour. 
Your secretary did not attempt to take detailed notes of the items reported to him during the course of the weekend since this would require practically full-time stenographic help. We can report that the Class of 1958 was very well repre­sented and acquitted itself well in the events of the weekend. 
Saturday morning a memorial Mass for the deceased members of the Class of 1958 
ART ROULE and ED HARDIG No speech needed for reelection. 
was concelebrated in the Dillon Hall Chapel by Fathers JOHN CARLIN, ED NASH and BOB WILLIAMSON, all mem­bers of our Class. The balance of the day was spent at seminars, tours, golf again (by those hearty enough to stand the heat) and in general relaxation. 
The 1958 forces massed splendidly for the parade to the North Dining Hall Satur­day evening for the Alumni Banquet. Our Class again showed its distinction by carry­ing away a lion's share of the prizes of the Golf Tournament, the results of which were announced at the banquet. 
The final major event for the weekend was the Alumni Mass Sunday morning at Sacred Heart Church, concelebrated by priests of all the Reunion Classes, which at this time included Fathers Carlin, Nash and Williamson, as well as Rev. JOHN MCCARTHY. 
In spite of the rapid passing of ten years since graduation and the obvious changes wrought by time in the physical appearance of many of the returnees, it was remarkable how little everyone seemed to have changed from the days we spent together under the dome. The comment frequently heard was that anyone who was at all able to attend one of these Reunions was crazy to miss the opportunity. 
As part of the business transacted at the Friday night Class Dinner, the in­cumbent Glass officers were reelected for another term of five years. In case you 
GOOD AND GREAT, THE CLASS OF '58 
And no flowers and no peace beads, either. 
Class of '58 and Associates Set Thirst-Quenching Reconl 
have forgotten, these officers are: Rev. DONALD E. MCNEIL L CSC, president; JIM "HOOT" WALSH, vice-president; ART ROULE, secretary; and ART RO­NEY, treasurer. 
The news received since our last addi­tion is as follows: 
Father Don McNeill is spending the sum­mer at Yale-New Haven Hosp. as part of a program in pastoral theology at Prince­ton Theological Seminary. Father Don is working on a doctorate at Princeton. 
Capt. EDWARD A. WARNICKE is in South Vietnam and his address is Capt. 
E. A. Warnicke, 075317, Force Logistics Command, FPO San Francisco 96602. 
M.'^TTHEW McKENNA. since receiv­ing his MSME at ND in 1960, has been working for ITT-Nesbitt, a division of IT&T. He is now manager of the No. Jersey Sales Office which sells heating, ventilating and air-conditioning equipment. He is married to the former Patricia Phe­lan and has two children. The McKcnnas reside at 15 Rowan Rd, Chatham. NJ. 
J.\MES H. D.AILEY is an assistant at­torney general in Olympia, Wash. Jim and his wife have one son and arc living at 4416 Redwood Lane, Olympia, Wash. 98501. 
WALT HUURMAN was married in December, 1967, in Frederick, Md. to the former Lindsey McGuiness. Walt is in aviation medicine at Miramar Naval Sta­tion, San Diego. In August he will begin an orthopedic residency at the Navy Hos­pital in Oakland. JIM ESCH and MIKE HERM.4N are both at San Diego Naval Hosp. as an orthopedic surgeon and cardi­ologist, respectively. Walt reports that JOE BRIDE, TOHN GLAVIN, DON COR­BETT, BILL SCANLON and Jim Esch were at his wedding. DICK MEYER is reported to be in Vietnam with AID. By the way, Walt Huurman's address is 4149 Sixth Ave,, Apt 12, San Diego. 

JACK SWEENEY (24131 Highlander Rd., Canoga Park, Calif. 91304) is prac­ticing law in Los Angeles, specializing in personal injury litigation, particularly avia­tion accident cases. Jack was chairman of the 1968 UND night in Hollywood and was just elected vice-pres. of the LA ND club. 
Dr. JOHN MCDONALD, who shared a room with your secretary in Dillon Hall during the Reunion, was married in 1962 to the former Karen Day and now has two sons. John received his MD in 1962 at the U, of Pennsylvania and interned at the U. of Miami. John spent two years in the Air Force and now is in surgical residency at Presbyterian Univ. Hosp. in Pittsburgh; his address is 65 Greenbrier Dr., Pittsburgh. 
JIM INDIVERI (23 Lancelot Lane, Basking Ridge, NJ) after these many years has reported on his personal history. Jim spent three years in the Marine Corps in No. Carolina. In 1958 he married the former Carol Ann Roberts. After the Marine Corps Jim sold group insurance for Connecticut General in NYC. Three years ago he was appointed group sales manager for Colonial Life Ins. Co. in New Jersey and it is still his position. Jim now holds the rank of Major in the Marine Corps Reserve and has three children. Jim occasionally hears from JOE DERRICO. 
LARRY SHEARON (2820 N. Huron, St. Paul, Minn.) is at Honeywell's Aero­space Division as a project engineer. Larry and his wife Kathy have four children and he reports they are rapidly outgrowing their house. 

TOM MOORE (185 Woodedge, Blooni­field HiUs. Mich. 48013) has transferred back to Detroit from Muskegon, but is still a branch manager for Detroit Ball Bearing. Bob and his wife Beverly have four chil­dren. 
DAN LAMONT ((3131 N. Treat, Tuc­son 85716) spent the years from 1958 to '61 in the Navy, then attended Loyola Law School in Chicago, graduating in 1964. He was married in 1965 and moved to Tucson. Dan and his wife Jeannine have two children and Dan practices law in the partnership of Quigley and Lamont and reports recently having seen HUGH McGUIRE who was in his area on busi­ness. 
JOHN CAREY (7 Ticc Ct, Spring Val­ley, NY) is completing his lOth year in the Dept of Fhys. Ed. at Manhattan Col. where he coaches swimming and baseball. John and his wife have five children, the most recent having been bom Jan. 1, '68, the first baby of the year in Rockland County, NY. 
JOHN LIESKE (4713 Middaugh, Downers Grove, 111.) now has four child­dren, three boys and a girl, and is work­ing for US Gypsum Co. as a marketing policy manager. John has heard from DAN BERGEN who returned in May from Vietnam. 
We have received an interesting article from the East Side Journal of Kirkland, Wash, relating to the appointment of JOHN PRUSS as mayor of Houghton, Wash, in February, 1968, to fill the term of the mayor who resigned. John had been elected to the Town Council the preceding November. John has resided in Houghton since August. 1962, after com­pletion of a tour of duty with the Air Force. He and his wife, Mary Joan, and their five children reside at 12229 NE 67th St., Houghton, Wash. 98033, where his honor the mayor is an architect with the firm of Jack Woodman & Assoc, in Belle­vue. Wash. 
THOMAS S. GOZDECKI JR has been named vice-pres. and trust officer of the Calumet National Bank in Hammond. 
Capt. JAMES L. BAZ-^NY received his second award of the Army Commendation Medal March 14 while serving with the 9th Inf. Div. near Bear Cat, Vietnam. He earned the award for meritorious service during his last assignment with the So. European Task Force in Italy. 
JAMES J. RASCHER is participating in "Operation Jeb Stuart" in Vietnam with other members of the 1st Air Cavalry Div. The division is carrying out search and destroy missions in Quang Tri prov. and aroimd the old imperial capital of Hue. Dr. Rascher. since arriving in Viet­nam in May, 1967, has been ai^rded the Air Medal, Bronze Star Medal, Purple Heart and the Combat Medical Badge. 
That takes care of all the news for now. For those who will be attending the Fur-
due game Sept. 28, we hope to see you 
•58ERSNOT KNOWN FOR orETING at the after-game reunion in the Morris Even the waitresses had a good time. Inn. 
ALUMNUS JULY IM S AUGUST S? 

CLASS DINNER 
carbohydrafe crime, 
Youngest Old Grads Relived the Long Ago 
By FRANK DICELLO '63 
The weather was great, the beer plentiful 
(29 kegs) and the stories unbelievable at 
Reunion headquarters for the Class of '63 
in Dillon Hall. Over 200 fellows put in 
an appearance. 
TOM O'DEA and BRI.AN BOULAC 
were there. They both spent the past year 
at the Dome. Tom is teaching Spanish 
and holding conferences in the South Oaf 
and Brian was working on a doctorate and 
sen-ing as a member of Ara's staff. 
F.A.THER McCARRAGHER attended the 
Class Dinner Friday. Saturday morning 
many took to the links for the final 18 in 
the Alumni Golf Tournament. Low man 
in our Class was DICK PEPLINSKI. 
At 11 am Saturday Father Hcsburgh ad­
dressed a brunch at the North Dining Hall. 
He is celebrating the 25th anniversary of 
his ordination and received a gift from 
all the Alumni. 
Among those visiting the old haunts and the new buildings Saturday afternoon were MYRON BUSBY and CHARLIE ATEN. Both are liWng in Indiana. Myron is director of admissions at St. Mary of the Woods. TOM BISHOP and DICK J.AMES came out. Dick is working in Chicago and Tom is in Washington. JIM WEBER came down from Minneapolis; he is with General Mills. 
REGIS CAMPFIELD drove out from his law office in Cleveland. TERRY DESMOND came in from Detroit. JIM 


ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 

, m&y^rf^m.i.^ 
 •! 
HUGHES and CH.\RLIE DRISCOLL 
from Chicaso. TOM HOTOPP and his 
wife came in from Atlanta. Tom recently 
left the Army and has a job as a salesman 
in the South. 
Much of the planning and credit for the 
weekend must go to Class Treas. TV 
DEMETRIO and local Chairman PHIL 
RYAN. Ty did most of the advance 
planning and Phil, who received his PhD 
three days before the Reunion began, 
handled the arrangements in South Bend. 

The new Athletic and Convocation Center was open for inspection during the weekend. It is due for completion this fall. Among the fellows I met inspecting the new facilities were MIKE O'DON­NELL, REV. ED MALLOY, ED KEN­NEDY, TOM FABISH and KEVIN HUNT. 
Saturday night all classes gathered in the North Dining Hall for the Alumni Dinner. Among the several speakers were Ara and JOHN DEE. Both gave (autious but confident reports on the outlook for next season. After the dinner it was back to the beer tent for a few more stories and laughs before the weekend closed. 
For many, too, there was one more trip around the Campus or down to the Grotto or the lake. Sunday morning, after Mass in Sacred Heart and a continental break­fast in Dillon, the weekend closed with the familiar words "See you in five years." 
SPEAKER DEE Cautious but confident. 
DREWRY'S 'TINY' See you in five years? 

RON REED AT ND AND NOW He bounced ofF the hardcourt to a Braves' nevt world. 
Former Two-Timer Fmds Right Pitcli 
Classes 

CIX-FOOT-SIX Ron Reed '65, who 
won his first six games as an At­lanta Braves rookie, knows now he made the right decision two years ago. 
The tall Hoosier gave up a career in professional basketball after the 1966­'67 season with the Detroit Pistons. He would, he decided, devote all his ener­gies and time to becoming a big league baseball pitcher. 
During the 1967 season. Reed pitched in more innings—222—than any other International league hurler. He won 14 games and lost 10 for Richmond and Manager Luman Har­ris, now his skipper at Atlanta. 
This season he stepped up to the major league team and polished off six straight NL opponents before his streak was broken May 30 by the Astros. 
Ron was not even a member of Atlanta's starting rotation until the 17th game, April 29 at San Francisco. But what an impression he made that day! He pitched perfect-game baseball for 6.2 innings (Willie Mays reached him for a hit at last) and eventually won a three-hitter, 7-2. 
Houston, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, then New York twice, were Reed's next victims in order. The first Reed victory over the Mets was a two-hitter at Shea May 19. Since then his name has become familiar to sports fans around the country. One of his last appearances before press time was in the All-Star game. 
A star in baseball and basketball at ND, Reed was signed to a Braves' contract by another Alumnus, John McHale '43, then Braves' general manager. The date was July 17, 1965. McHale has since moved on to be­come an aide to Commissioner William Eckert. 
Reed, a native of LaPorte, Ind., spent two seasons doubling in both pro sports, as a farm team pitcher for the Braves and a reserve forward for the Pistons in the National Basketball Association, before giving up basket­ball. 
The Braves are happy to have him all to themselves. 
ALL-STAR IN ACTION Making a hit in Atlanta. 
ALUMNUS JULY IMS AUGUST 

Here Come de Judge 
State Senator Thomas L. Judge '57 surprised almost everyone in Montana by winning the Democratic nomina­tion for lieutenant governor by a landslide. In the five-man field for the Democratic nomination. Judge led with 36,743. 
The 33-year-old Judge has served three terms in the House of Repre­sentatives and one term in the State Senate, but few people gave the young senator much chance when he entered the race. The polls showed him a weak third. 
With the help of young people around the state. Judge put on a bandwagon campaign. He spoke to hundreds of service clubs and other groups all over the state. Every Saturday the Judge supporters traveled to a different city in a caravan, parading the streets and campaigning supermarkets. 
Judge used as his slogan a line from the Rowan and Martin TV show: "Here Comes the Judge!" The slogan was effectively carried out in newspaper, radio and TV ads. 
Judge has an excellent record in labor, education and farm legislation and has led the fight for the state sup­port to local government, moderniza-
THE JUDGE FAMILY Out for more baby kissing. 


ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 
FALL CLASS REUNIONS 

Fall Class Reunions immediately follow­
ing the Oklahoma Game (Sept. 21), the 
Purdue Game (Sept. 28), the North­
western Game (Oct. 12) and the Illi­
nois Game (Oct. 19) have been 
planned by class officers. At press time, 
the schedule reflected these class 
gatherings: 
CLASS OF 1928 

Illinois O'Shaughnessy. 
CLASS OF 1929 

Purdue Engineering Bldg. 
CLASS OF 1939 

Purdue O'Shaughnessy. 
CLASS OF 1951 

Northwestern To be announced. 
CLASS OF 1952 

Northwestern O'Shaughnessy. 
CLASS OF 1954 

Oklahoma Engineering Bldg. 
CLASS OF 1955 

Purdue Morris Inn. 
CLASS OF 1957 

Illinois Hotel to be announced. 
CLASS OF 1958 

Purdue Morris Inn. 
CLASS OF 1959 

Purdue O'Shaughnessy. 
CLASS OF I960 

Northwestern Morris Inn. 
CLASS OF 1964L Purdue To be announced. 
tion of the legislative and executive branches of government and medical assistance for senior citizens. 
At ND Judge's major was journal­ism. He served as a 2nd lieutenant in the Army Adjutant General Corps. Then he worked two and a half years as an advertising salesman for the Courier-Journal in Louisville and at­tended graduate school at the U. of Louisville. In May of 1960 he re­turned to Helena and started what has been a successful advertising and public relations firm. He filed for the House of Representatives at the age of 25. He was elected and re­elected in 1963 and 1965 by the highest majority. In 1966 he was elected to the State Senate and was the first Democrat elected to the Senate from his county in 26 years. 
He has served as chairman of the Natural Resources Committee, chair­man of the Business and Industry Committee and secretary of the Mon­tana Legislative Council. 
Judge was one of the initiators of a $400,000 federal-state recreational development, started a local com­munity action agency and chairmaned a hospital building program. 
In 1966 Judge married Carol Anderson of Helena and they now have a 14-month-old son. Tommy. 
In community activities Judge was 
cited as "Montana's Outstanding Young Man of 1967" by the Jaycees. He was Montana's representative in "America's Ten Outstanding Young Men Congress." In 1966 be received the ND Man of the Year Award from the Montana ND Alunmi Association. In 1963 he received the Jaycee Dis­tinguished Service Award. 
This fall a fighting Irishman in Montana will be camjiaigning hard for the state's second highest office. 
There He Goes Apin 
How does a man who did his imder­graduate work in philosophy and wanted to be a lawyer vrind up going to Rome this September on a Ful­bright professorship in sociology? 
For Dr. Gordon DiRenzo '56, '57, '63, now an associate professor at Indiana U. in South Bend, the path to Rome has been a twisted one. He graduated from ND wth a philosophy major and every intention of heading for law school. He detoiu'ed long enough to take a master's in sociology, assuming the next step was an LLB. 
However, the second detour %vas a couple years of teaching. Then, although he still wasn't completely convinced sociology was his field, a tempting offer to return for his PhD at ND, again in sociology, was too much to resist. 
Dr. DiRenzo gave in. He retiuned long enough to complete a required year of residency and then fulfilled a dream and took off for Europe. While in Italy on scholarship, he began doctoral research. The area he chose was the study of personality 
GORDON DiRENZO Off to a Roman holiday. 

called Arctic char. Also we served 
queen crab—something very delicious 
that the US has only been able to 
import in very small quantities." 
From all over the country people 
came to dance in the glittering replica 
of the Louis Sieze ballroom in the 
palace of Fontainebleau. They in­
cluded some of Schulte's ND class­
mates and their girl friends, St. Mary's 
grads. Both Scottie Lanahan and 
Bobbi Lanahan (Fitzgerald's daughter 
and granddaughter) were invited but 
neither was able to join in the festivi­
ties, tiiough both gave their approval 
and wished they could be there. 
Substituting for the family was 
Scott Fitzgerald III, a fictitious char­
acter whose name appeared on the 
engraved invitation along with Schul­
te's. In the receiving line Fitzgerald 
was played by Mark Fitzgerald Theil 
'67. 

Of the impersonation Schulte says, "I asked Mike to come up from Washington for the party and stand in the receiving line as Fitz III. Every­one knew it was a joke, but they enjoyed it. Mike was tremendous—he spoke fluid Princetonese all night." 
To insure against damage in the magnificent townhouse, once owned by Walter Cabot Baylies and now used as an adult education center by the city of Boston, Schulte was well in­sured by Lloyds of London. "It cost me an arm and a leg but it was worth it," he says. Fortunately, though the guests danced and rambled through the whole house and the gardens, there was no damage except 710 broken champagne glasses. 
The affair was such a wild success that Schulte is planning another one, in late summer or early fall, and it is going to be just as big a bash. And the great partygivers of the world had best prepare to welcome into their ranks a new star. 
structure of Italian politicians—and 
that really hooked him. He has been 
a sociologist ever since. 
The opportunity to be a Fulbright 
professor in residence at the U. of 
Rome comes not by accident but as 
a recognition of Dr. DiRenzo's talent 
and accomplishments in the social 
sciences. He is an expert linguist 
fluent in Italian, French and Spanish 
and he is well known through his 
books: Personality, Power, and Pol­
itics; Personalita' e Politica; and Con­
cepts, Theory and Explanation in the 
Behavioral Sciences. 
Though he was initially offered the 
Fulbright position in research, it was 
partially his fluent knowledge of 
Italian which led him to request a 
teaching job instead. 
What will the professorship consist of? Though the required duties are light—one seminar a week for ap­proximately 16 weeks beginning in December—his plans are extensive. 
"I'm going to offer one course in the relationship of conceptual and methodological problems to research in beha\'ioral sciences. I'm also going to lecture on the research I did in 1960 and 1961 and the rest of the time I hope to carry out extensions of research I did there previously. It has to do with the relation of person­ality to social systems." 
Of his non-working hours he says, "We'll be on the go every weekend." The "we" refers to his bride Mary whom he married July 6. Dr. Di-Renzo is anxious to introduce her to Italy and to get in a little casual re­search on his own. "I'd like to get into the villages as much as possible, off the tourist path. Here is where I get the background of the people." 
Dr. DiRenzo no doubt plans to get a book out of his year in Italy to sup­plement not only the three already in print but one which is currently being 

published and one which is in the 
\vriting stage. 
Though he is anxious to see Rome 

again. Dr. DiRenzo calls his feelings 
"ambivalent" because he hates to leave 
the ND area. Long and closely tied 
with the University, he is sure he's 
going to miss a great deal of ND's 
activities while he is away. As he says, 
"There is so much happening on 
Campus that any time you go away 
you'll miss something." 
But come September, 1969 he'll be back in South Bend, close to the Dome, teaching sociology with the intensity of a man who—^regardless of the circuitous route—^has found the work he loves. 
Talk About a Party! 
Pearl Mesta, watch out! Your reputa­tion as THE partygiver on the eastern seaboard is being challenged—and by a man, yet. An invitation from AI Schulte '65, public relations man for the Boston Globe, is a treasured item these days—and with good reason. Right now his main claim to fame is "The Great Gatsby Ball," a magnifi­cent black tie affair for 400 which he threw in the ballroom of one of Boston's famous townhouses. 
Why did he choose to honor Jay Gatsby of F. Scott Fitzgerald fame? "Because any excuse is a good excuse to throw a party." But also to cele­brate the silk and feathers era of Prohibition with French champagne (23 cases) and bathtub gin (made from a genuine Prohibition recipe and served from a bathtub). 
White wigged, liveried footmen were out in force to assist the guests, the food and liquor were plentiful in the true Gatsby tradition. Schulte says, "For nourishment we had special fish which was flown in from the Yukon, a rare fish caught by the Eskimos 
Al SCHULTE '65, CO-HOST, MIKE FITZGERALD THIEL '67 and THE GREAT GATSBY A toast to prohibitions past. 
HOST SCHULTE IN ACTION Whatta car! Whatta line! 
ALBERT A. KUHLE '15 117 SUNSET AVE. LAGRANGE, ILL. 60525 
GROVER F. MILLER '16 1208 SOUTH MAIN ST. 
RACINE. WIS. 53403 

SlYear 
EDWARD McOSKER '17 525 MELROSE AVE. ELGIN, ILLINOIS 60120 
DAN E. HILGARTNER ' 17 P.O. BOX 75 HARBERT, MICH. 49115 

An Interesting letter was received from HARRY 
J. KIRK, Carroll Manor, 4922 LaSalle Road, Hyattsville, Md. 20782 who among others bean the titles, K.S.G., Treasurer National Conference of Catholic Charities, and deCerred giving Class agent for the Class of 1913. 
Following are quotes from his letter: "Since retiring 10 years ago, with no 'deadlines' and ^vcight dou-n to what it was when I was 16 years old, I have been *Iiving the life of Rilcy.* Mrs. Kirk and I are residents of Carroll Manor, the Archdioccsan Home for the Aged. Of course being nearly as spry as I ever was, I don't really need to be in a home Cor the aged. (Whom am I kidding?) 
"Only recently there moved across the hall from us at CarroU Manor a widow, Mrs. Afargaret Mcnsing. She is a sister of the brothers, HARRY and *DE' NEWNING originally of Houston, Tex. In my day at UND the Newnings lived \wth the lace curtain Irish in Walsh Hall," 
Among the fond memories he mentioned was tlic time St. Joe Halt's football squad beat Walsh for the Intcrhall Championship in 1912. "That year no team crossed St. Joe Hall's goal line." On the team of 14 monogram mm (from a listing on the program) was HUGH "PEPPER" O'DO.XNELL, later President of ND. In telling of the activities of the Class crew of 1913 he spoke of the "crew headed by stroke oar BERNARD 'The Terrible' LANG—Father Lang of later fame." 
Harry added some family news items. "The third generation of our family is presently repre­sented at Notre Dame by one of our 22 grand­M)ns, the son of our daughter Gertrude, Patrick 
L. Mcehan. He is a graduate student in the physics dcpt. He received his bachelor's degree in 1967 at Holy Cross Col., Worcester, Mass. It looks like the draft will cut short his student days at Notre Dame. 
"Our son, PATRICK J. KIRK, was at Notre Dame in 1941-1942, until he transferred to CU of A to begin his studies for the priesthood. He was ordained DOM DANIEL OSB in 1949, and is a member of the Community of St. Anselm's Abbey and on the Abbey School faculty in Washington DC." 
Harry recently received a citation presented by the Hon. Walter E. Washington, mayor of the District of Columbia. It reads "HARRY J. KIRK -- has been acknowledged by fellow club members as an outstanding member and citizen, which honor not only emphasizes the commendable qualities of the individual senior citizen but also the contribution ol senior clubs to the welfare of our city." The Brookland Friendly Senior Neigh­bors, to which Harry belongs, is an cctimcnical group embracing the older members of five congregations in the area near Catholic U. in Washington, DC namely: Brookbnd Methodist, Church of Our Savior (Episcopal), 14th Street Baptist, Brookland Baptist, and St. Anthon>*'s Catholic Church. Harry was one of the co* founders and was the first president. 
Harry continues: "Some time ago I ^vrotc to my old friend CHUBBY CORCORAN, of Chicago, that in the event he got into trouble, he might look up one of our sons-in-law, Joseph I. Woods, sheriff of Cook Co., HI., husband of our daughter Lucille. 
"The last time that I was in attendance at a N D Alumni Reunion, Dr. Corcoran, BILL MIL­ROY, CLYDE BROUSSARD and I, unable to find many old friends about, strolled over to the community cemetery. There on the grave markers we read the names and recalled memories of many beloved departed of the Congregation of Holy Cross." 
A yellow postcard, supplied by ALUMNUS was received from WILLARD V. HALL.\M, who resides at 1061 So. Success Ave., Bclair Apt. B, Lakeland, Fla. 33803 with an article on the history of Florida attached. The Hallams, parents, Willard and his sister are natives of Illinois, migrated to Harpers Ferry, W.Va. and later moved to Florida. Willard's father was engaged for some years in the publishing business. 

ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 
He was associated mth Success magasne and later Britannica. "He conceived the idea of publish­ing *The Messages and Papers of the Rnidents,' one of the most notable publication enterprises ever undertaken and successfully carried out." 
The family purchased 10,000 acres of land in Florida in 1910 and much energy has been devoted to its development; 3000 acres now com­prise the Lakeland Highlands, including a country dub and numerous bcautifid Homes; 5000 acres are now a plantation of dtrus buits with 2000 acres of land stiU remaining to be developed. 
Willard V. Hallam left Dickinson seminary at Williamsport, Pa. to join the Navy during World War I in 1917 even though he was under age. He served on the USS Henderson and crossed the ocean 26 times during the war. 
"I joined the Armed Forces again In 1942, was discharged in 1944, with scnnce connected <&­abihty (honorable medical discharge as a Chief Petty Officer USN). 
"My serial number in both WorU Wars was 1702983. I am now 100% service connected disability — and I undergo surgery ^ai n May 1 or 2 at Lakewood General Hosp." 
I am sure Wilbrd will be happy to hear from his classmates. Willard is a life member of BPOE 1291 Lakeland Elks, also Ufe member DA Veterans, Lakeland Post and a 47-year member of the American Legion. 
A post card was received from SIMEON T. FLANAGAN from London. The note on the card said — "When at ND at our 50th anni­versary we mustered 15 of our Class but a few have dropped since then. I'm lucky to be here trying a Billion $ case in this claim court house. Best to you and all.*' 
Sim graduated in law with the class of 1914. When at home he can be reached at Madison Sq. Hotel, 37 Madison Ave., NY, NY. We urge Sim to fill us in on the success of lus venture and more about himself when he returns. 
On a recent trip to South Dakota and Io%va, I had the pleasure of visiting with two good old ND friends. In South Dakota Mrs. Kuhle and I were guests in the home of Mr. and Mrs. THEODORE N. FEYDER at 800 W. 4 St., Sioux Falls, SD 57104. Ted of the 1914 law class is not too well and is confined to his home most of the time. He does enjoy loving c<Hn­panionship with his dear wife and a devoted daughter. He too would be happy to hear from members of his Class. 
In Sioux City, Iowa we had the pleasure of meeting EDWARD LALLEY. We attended the same Kfass and found him waiting for us outside after services. He informed me that he hopes to retire from newspaper ^'ork in the very near future. 
A letter from EMMETT G. LENIHAN brings the following news: "I had a very enjoyable birthday. All the members of the family were over with the grandchildren and we enjoyed a good swim and buffet supper afterwards. I am getting so now that the only one of the grand­children that I can beat swimming is the seven­year-old and he will probably have me out­stripped before the end of the summer. My youngest, a daughter who lives in Baltimore, of course couldn't be there but telephoned so cvery^ one got a chance to talk to her. 
"I shall not be back at Reunion this year, but will try to keep my schedule of going bade every fifth year which, the Lord willing, will be in 1970. Please give my best wishes to all members of the Class." Emmett's address—1114 Norton Bldg., SeatUe, Wash. 98100. 
Through the thoughtfulness of JOSEPH J. HEALY, I received the sad news of the death of JOHN O'DONNELL, in WHliams, Cafif. His address was P.O. Box 222. He is said to have been in failing health since Thanksgiving. John was a retired attorney, former state assemblyman, one­time speaker of the lower house, and a former Yolo Co. Superior Court judge, appointed to that post by Gov. Culbert L. Olson. He was a native of New York. Survivors include bis wife Molly, of Williams; daughter Mrs. Agnes Lederer of Pacific Palisades; brother. Dr. Frauds O'Donnell of Stockton; sister Airs. Kfary Coombs of New York; stepdaughter, Mrs. Elizabeth Tara of Los Angeles, and seven grandchildren." 
May his soul and the souls of aU the faithful departed through the mercy of God rest in peace. During the past winter season the following "old grads" and their wives frequendy met socially at Pompano Beach and Fort Lauderdale: Mr. and Mrs. Hunk Anderson, Mr. and Mrs. CHAS. BACHMAN '17, Mr. and Mrs. PAUL FOGARTY '17, Mr. and Mrs. JOS. FLYNN '17, Mr. and Ua. FREP WELLS '15, Mr. JAMES FENESV '14, Mr. BILL REDDEN '14. REUNION REGISTRANTS: L. A. Kc^opa, Rev. Charles L. Dorcinus, Doaiiiic Calficrate, Scepben 
H. HcTT, WiOiun Sdunitt, Richard J. Mooroe, Leo Zgodzittski, Raymond Kelly, Edward Riely, Patrick Maloney, EmiUo R. Saluar, C G. Corcocan, Bill Grady, James MrMahon, George 
W. Shanahan, Leo J. Vogd, Bernard J. VoIL —Alktri KmUg, '15 -i A-i n GEORGE WAAGE 
m i x 3301 WUGHTWOOD AVK. XcFX O CHICAGO, nX . 606ff7 
REUNION REGISTRANTS: William Andres, Cmdr. Charles CaU. Edward J. Dnadon, Allan Fritzsche, Rev. George Holderith CSC, Kazns 
G. Maximilian, John Lcmmer, Jim Logan, George Ed Harbert, Arthur L. May, Dommic M. Nigro, William J. Noonan, Thomas J. O'Meara, Jmeph 
T. Riley, Dr. Rene Rodrignez, Peter J. Ronchetti, Frank X. Rydzewski, Lambert Seng, Jim Sweeny, John Voelkers, George Waage, Loois E. (Lou) Wagner, Dr. Ndl J. Whalen, Rev. Charles Williams. 
A comiJete Hconion report is on pages 12 and 13. -i A-i A THEODORE C RADEMAKER I U I U PERU FOUNDRY CO. J.CFXeF PERU, IND. 46900 
1920 
JABIES H. RYAN 2470 EAST A^~ AFT. 314 
ROCHESTER, N, . 14G10 

JOHN BALFE was in Phoenix tm vacation in 
May and visited with LEONARD CALL's son 
Vffao is running the General Electric establishment 
there. He abo saw JERRY CROUGH '21 who 
many of us knew. 
John is renowned as a golfer and a tree ss 
being decBcatcd to him at the Oak Hill Country 
Club in Rochester. He pbys in several senior 
golf tournaments. His insurance business, while 
under his able contn^ is aided fay his son-in-law. 
Leonard CaU is continuing his long career with 
the Hunt magazines in New York Qty. He com­
mutes daily from Hasbrouck Heights NJ, very 
much on the baQ and looking forward to our 50th 
Reunion. He is very proud that his son £s a priest. 
SHERWOOD DIXON, after a pcditica] career 
leading to lieulenant governor of Illinois while Gov. 
Stevenson hdd power, reported long ago he was 
returning to practidng law in Dbton, H L to sup­
port his family. His law practice, ^t h Ids 
pcrsonaUty and ^mily bac^raund, has prospered 
but now he reports turning it over to bis younger 
generation. He will retain his bankruptcy court 
business. His seven children and ten grandchildren 
would ^ve any smart man our <^e with lessening 
of responsibility, great enjoyment. 
He enjoyed some legal business with crar ex-
Congressman, JOE O'HARA, BOW linng In Wash­
ington. We should all pressure Joe to come to 
our next Reunion, in s^te of his arthritis and 
added we^ht. 
I wish our members would send us information 
that I can pass on in our letters. The response 
from the few reports that I have had is very 
gratifyhig and 1 am sure everyone would welcome 
more information. 
REUNION REGISTRANT: Sherwood Dixon. 
DAN W. DUFFY IIBO NATL. CITY E. Oh BtDG. CLEVELAND. OHIO 44114 

1921 
G. A. "KID" ASHE 175 LANDING KO. N . 
KOCHESTEK. N.Y. 1462S 

1922 
One more '22 classmate has been called to his reward. This time the summons came to ED­MUND B. COMYNS who resided at 88S Cam­bridge Road, Cleveland Heights, Ohio .44121. Please do remember in your prayers the soul of the aforementioned, and these others: Mrs. Loretta M. Juerjens, mother of HAROLD E. Mc-KEE of happjr memory, who died last October 28, and a sister (Mary) of Mrs. Charles Crowley of Weston, Massachusetts on Holy Thmsday last. 
We are highly. pleased to report that JOHN PAUL CULLEN, who was immobilized for a few days In Misericordia Hasp., Milwaukee, is active again. His last reported locition was-Washington, DC on June 7. Too, JAMES VINCENT JONES of Rochester, NY is on the mend after a mild ill­ness, and that is happy news. 
On May 4 in Honolulu, Mrs. George (FhylE]) Heneghan writes:. "My. sister and I a n having our first vacation in nine years. Our mother passed away this last Christmas Eve. From.here we go to New Orleans for little Jimmy's lint 
35 

Communion, and then back to South Bend." 
JUSTIN E. HYLAND now resides at 1830 
West Sunset Ave., Decatur, Illinois 62522. For 
many years he lived in the New York area, where 
he was busy oa engineering projects. 
Under ciate of June 2, FRANCIS OTT of 559 
East Providencia Ave., Burbank, California writes: 
*'What is so rare as a day in June? I'll tell you 
what! VINCE HANRAHAN just telephoned me 
from Los Angeles. That makes me feel very good 
— haWng an old classmate call mc who has been in the state of oblivion so long. It is nice to know you arfi not forgotten.*' 
Presently in June, Vjncc has another convoy assignment for the US Department of State in the company of the minister of (education of Swaziland \Tsiting New Orleans, Houston, Phoenbc, California, and Illinois at Whcaton, where the guest of Iionor had earned two college degrees and this year received an additional honorary degree. Vincc had a chance to \Tsit the R.^LPH CORYNs in MoHnc, ^vlierc he had stopped 40 years ago to welcome Ralph and Ann returning from their honeymoon. Also Vince reports he helped our neighboring Class of '23 celebrate their 45th Reunion at ND, as did RANGY MILES and GEORGE KERVER of '22. Then, there was a motor drive to Chicago with JIM M.A,RTIN; a luncheon visit in Chicago witli our own JERRY DIXON; a hospital visit with JOE C.\SSA­SANTA, but location of last mentioned visit Avas not idcntitlcd. 
REUNION REGISTR.ANTS: Vincent Hanrahan, George G. Ker\'er, Clarence Manion. 
 V. BRUGGNER 
1667 RIVERSIDE DR., APT. A SOUTH BEND, IND. 46616 

1923 
LOUIS 
REUNION REGISTRANTS: Frank J. Brcen, Martin H. Brennan, Louis Eniggner, Glen M. Carberry, Paul Castner, Richard Cordray, Daniel 
J. Cullianc, Louis A. De Smct, Joe Donaldson, Frank Doriot, William Fitzgerald, Frank Galvin, W, C. Ga^Tior, Cyril J. Hartman, Gene HInes, Bruce Holmbcrg, Walter J. Kennedy, Edward P. Kreimer Jr., Tliomas Lee, Daniel D. Lynch, Mattliew McEnIr>% James R. Martin, LyIe E. Miller, Dr. Charles T. Moran, Cy Neff, John W. Nicmicc, Daniel P. Nolan, John C. Norton, Joseph 
W. Nyikos, George A. Patterson, Frank W. Pedrotty, Cornelius J. PfeifTer, Murray Powtrs, Jeffcry V. Powers, Ed Raub, AValter I. Rauth, Walt Rauber, Daniel Regan, Leo B. Riedcr, John 
M. Rohrbach, Merlin Rolulng. W. Edmund Shea, John B. Stephan, Jesse Torres, AVilllam L. Voss, George J. ^Vack, Francis \ValIacc, Rev. Leo R. Ward, James F. Young. 
Sec details on pages 14-15. 
JAMES R. MEEHAN 
301 S. LAFAYETTE BL\T). 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46601 

1924 
JOHN P. HURLEY 
2085 BROOKDALE RD. 
TOLEDO, OHIO 43606 

1925 
Congratulations to a few of your classmates for the most news I have received for many a year— letters from EDDIE BAKER, JIM ARMSTRONG, GEORGE VERGARA and MORRIE BOLAND. 
Eddie Baker writes "another change of address for you—^R.R. 2, Box 274, S>-racusc, Ind." He said in part—"I retired from Peter Eckrich S: Sons last November after nearly 38 years. Wc Iiavc had a summer home at Lake Wawasce since 1948. It was built as a year-round home but wc arc adding rooms and installing alr-conditloning. After returning from Florida wc got into our new project because Mrs. B. and I love it here. Another real advantage, 1 can sec practically all ND football games on WNDU ... . beats fighting cold, snow and rain as I did many times. Our children are married and wc have two grandsons and t^vo grand­daughters. It is too bad that the members of the Class (including yours truly) don't communicate with you more often. J like to read the little excerpts from, their letters to you and also get a little nostalgic once in a \v'hile and wonder about some of the fellows I knew on the campus." Eddie, thanks for the news. 
George Vcrgara, 271 North Ave., Neu- Rochellc, NY UTites: *'The picture in the current ALUMNUS captioned, *Who arc these fresh faced lads with Father DOREMUS?' has set the wheels of memory churning. The black shirted youtli on Father's left has to be ART H-ALEY. Behind Father to his right are RIP MILLER's sombre looking features. The fellow on the left hand comer could be your corrcspondcat. 
**About Art Haley . . . wlien I was badly in need 
of a couple of ducats for an Army-ND game, I 
received them w^th a friendly note from Art, 'the 
reason >*ou arc getting the last two tickets avail­
able,* he wrote, Svas because you gave me two 
tickets to the last Anny-ND game played on the 
plains at West Point in '22.' BcUevc it or not, in 
those days there was no admis^on charge to this 
game. You did have to have a white pass. I had 
two such passes as I ran out to the field with the 
team. I don't know whether it was Rockne's pep 
talk to his sophomore teams or the non-appearance 
of someone I knew—^I Iianded the tickets to A 
young fellow I thought was a student. Sure enough 
it was Art (then a freshman). That game at West 
Point ended 0-0 tie. DON MILLER and I played 
cver>* minute of it—the hardest game we were 
ever in." 
This comes from James Armstrong, Ifttt N. 
Johnson St. South Bend, Ind. "Welcome to the 
grandfathers' group. And I say thb with renewal, 
to borrow a current term. &farion and I enjoyed 
our trip abroad and our three weeks with Brother 
Philip, as I have wHtten previously, and I hope 
the happy fallout from that experience has per­
meated the whole Class of '25. 
**Acting on the strength of another memorable highlight of June, 1967, Marion and I launched Dreamboat (the Ninety-Eight) on a two-month trip to the west coast, for a real get-acquainted visit with sons John (wife, two sons and a daughter) in Canoga Park, Richard (wife, two sons and a daughter) in Whiiilcr, and Gregory (wife and two sons) in Fresno. Wc left here Feb. 15 and got back Apr. 15. 
"Heretofore the contacts out there have been 
business-oriented, and the actual get-togethers few 
and usually everybody on best behavior. This time, 
by hovering close, wc enjoyed the day-to-day 
routines which get right down to the real kids 
(and the real grandparents!) Wc really enjoyed 
evcr>' minute of it. 
"We found the family program left out a lot of friendly contacts among Alumni and other friends. And wc didn't visit a lot of the attractions of the Chamber of Conunercc. So wc are planning to make this an annual and probably longer \'lsit. It gets away from the Indiana winter—a goal all by itself but produces an alternative of great attraction. 
**I keep looking for tliosc hours and days of unrest that retirements arc supposed to bring. Actually, up to now, I haven't even begun to find time for the things I want time for. I think this may stem partly from my long-time daim that 1 love leisure. At the moment I would say that my cup runneth over, except that a fairly successful diet from a good doctor takes a dim view of the cup. 
"Sometime soon, I hope to get into a less orbital life, and to practice some of the virtues I preaclied for Alumni." 
MORRIE BOLAND sent me the sad news of tlie death of EDDIE POLH.\US' wife on April 4. Eddie, in the name of your class I would like to extend our deepest s>-mpathy to you in your great loss. 
Let's continue to keep our Class neu's hea\'y! REUNION REGISTRANTS: C. P. Hafel, Brother Norbcrt CSC. 
 GELSON 
GELSON & LOWELL, JSC 
200 E. 42nd ST. 
NEW YORK, N.y. I0OI7 

REUNION REGISTRANT: J. Arthur Haley. 
1926 
J. N. 
CLARENCE J. RUDDY 
111 W. DOWNER PL. 
AURORA, ILL. 60504 

1927 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY 
6415 N. SHERIDAN RD., AFT. 1007 
CHICAGO, ILL. 60626 

1928 
REUNION REGISTRANTS: James Allan, Nell Amiot, John Antus, Robert £. Bannon, George Beamer. Bernard J. Bird, James W. Bochning, Edward Bourke, Thomas J. Bov, Andrew J. Boyle, Dr. Daniel J. Bradley, John E. Brannon, Edmund Brennan, Edwin F. Brennan, Francis £. BrouTi, William E. Brown, I^uis Buckley, John Busche­meyer, AVayne Bushman, James Canizaro, J. P. Canny, Arthur Canty, Rev. John A. Carlin, Vincent Carney, John W. Cavanaugb, Philip Cenedella Jr., James Conmey, Donald J. Coibett, Harold Cosgrove, George Coury, Frank P. Creadon, Dr. Bernard P. Crowley, John Crowley, James CuIIen, Edward P. Cunningham, Bill Daily, Dennis D. Daly, John Davis, Edward Dean, Jerry DeClercq, Anthony J. DeDario, G. Edward Diringer, Carl F. Dockman, Frank J. Donovan, Joe Doran, Jack Doyle, William Dowdall, William Dwycr, Wayne Ewing, Gene Farrell, Victor Fischer, George Fitzgerald, Mark Fitzgerald CSC, Christie Flanagan, Dr. Francis W. Ford, John F. Frederick, John Fonlana, Bernard Garber, Joseph 
M. Geraghty, John Gindling, William Goelitz, Robert Graham, August Grams, Robert A. Grant, Richard A. Greene, Albion Grifiin, Joe Griffin, Dr. Frank G. Guamieri, Bob Hamilton, John Hannan, Thomas Happcr, Thomas M. Hart, Dr. Francis A. Hegarty, John Herbert, Joseph Hilger, Michael Hogan, Frank J. Holdampf, Sr., Arthur 
P. Holton, John D. Igoe, Morris J. Ingram, Hudson Jeiferys, J. A. Johnson, William B. Jones, William P. Kearney, James R. Keams, George Kellcy, Joseph P. Kinneary, Bill Kirwan, Martin 
J. Kinvan, Jr., W. H. Konop, Bernard J. Korzen, John Lahey, J. Joseph Langton, Tom Lavelle, William H. Leahy, John Lcitzlngcr. George E, Leppig, Adrian Lopez, Raymond J. Lusson, John Lyons, Herbert McCabe, Frank McCarthy, Ed AfcClarnon, Edward P. McKcown, George S. McLaughlin, John V. McManmon, Joseph P. McNamara, James L. McShane, John McSorlcy, Joe Madden, Henry J. Massman, Jr., D. M. (Turk) Melnert, Francis Meyer, Arthur Miller, Harold A. Miller, Arthur Mitiguy, Joe S. Morris­sey, Raymond H. Kfulllgan, Andrew Mulrcany, CSC, John R. Murphy, Rev. Edward Nash, Robert 
L. Nickclls, Louis W. Norman, Gene O'Brien, Philip O'Connor, Pierce J. O'Connor, Howard V. Phalin, John PoUsky, Ken Power, Richard D. Quinlan, Edward R. Quinn, Philip Quinn, Edward 
P. Rafter, D. J. Rau, James J. Reilly, Mike Ricks, 
E. V. Riedcr, Robert Rigney, Martin RIni, John 
F. Robinson, Harold W. Ruppel, Martin A. Ryan, George J. Sargus, Arthur Schebcrle, George Scheucr, AI Schnurr, F. C. "Swede" Schroedcr, Charles Schuessler, Bemie Schuh, R. Floyd Searer, Norbert Seldenstlcker, Gerald Shelbley, Joseph R. Stmonin, David Smith, John P. Smith, Russell Smith, Fred J. Solman, Dr. S. David Solomon, C>-prian A. Sporl, Dr. Patrick J. Sullivan, Arnold 
C. Tlioma, Dr. Paul G. Tobin, Charles Topping, Richard Trant, John Voedisch, Willard F. Wagner, Leo Walsh, Thomas F. Walsh, V. T. Walsh, James 
E. White. Francis "Fritz" Wilson, John J. Win-
berry, Larry Wingerter, Elmer Wynne. Get more infonnation on pages 1&'17. 
 STAUDER 
ENGINEERING BLDG. 
NOTRE DAKIE, IND. 46556 

1929 
LARRY 
September 28, immediately after the Piurdue foot-b:UI game, the Class of '29 and their guests will have a get-together in the Engineering bldg. JIM CURRY, CLETE SCHNEIDER, GENE MILLIFF, FRANCIS FLYNN, BILL NEFF, and Rev. THORNTON, who were back for Reunion week­end in June, and your class secretary are looking foru-ard to the September date and June of '69. Each year wc have had a few new faces at the fall party to join with the "regulars." Will you be with us? Wc have welcomed the '28crs to stop by and to join with us if they wish. This will give you the opportunity to \'bit \rith fellows that you have not seen for (perhaps forty) years. 
The Class of '28 has scheduled an after-game get-together for October 19, the date of the Illinois game. You are welcome to join with them and visit. 
It makes no difference whether it is I, or Fr. Thornton or others of our Class, or of the Alumni office, each is overwhelmed by the performance, the depth, the "class" of the Class of '28. They deserve the label "The Greatest" and need not do a public relations job to maintain it. Their actions, some widely publicized, like their Class sur^'ey; some obvious, like their attendance of 180 at the Reunion; some known to a few, like works of charity; and some to God alone. 
It is sobering to Ifxik forward toward the year of preparation and planning that will precede our fortieth in '69. Our Class organization needs more individual involvement to make our Reunion the memorable weekend it can be. Our attendance, measure of our success, depends in final analysis on the individual, on you. Will we have one more? Or will it be one less? Perhaps, it could be three more, ten more? Promotional mailings, and personal contact paid off big for '28. Perhaps we cannot ri\'al them in that role, but we ctan show them that '29 can match them In response. Kfore wives than in former years were seen in the city and on the campus during Reunion weekend. 
You will be hearing from me and from others. If you would like to step forward and volunteer to make a mailing to all or part of the Class, conader this an open invitation. If we can promise you the office vice-pres. of the south, will you attend for first time? I'm not saying that GEORGE 
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 
LEPPIG *2S was here for that reason but he and about four others were back for the first time, if my information is fact. 

GENE MILLIFF now resides in a smaller home, 3167 Linden Road, Suite 303, Rocky River, Ohio. On June 29 his son, Jimmy, will be married in Chicago. Jimmy is with Gliddcn Co. in Cleveland and will enroll in law school at Western Reserve. His daughter, Marilyn, is a teacher in Rye, NH and an MS candidate of U. of New Hampshire. Her husband Perrine Parkhurst, is crew chief flying out of Guam. He is due back in July. 
NORM.\N J. McLEOD, also has a new address, Hillcrcek Lane, Gates Mills, Ohio. Norm has five married children and W/z grandchildren. One son, who recently finished a stint in the Coast Guard, is still single. Norman was recently appointed as loan team leader at Cleveland US Small Business Administration. He was the recipient of two recent honors, the "Public Contract Award'* Mid-Atlantic Area (9 states) and also a scroll for top "Pro­curement and Management Assistance to Small Business" for the same area. He has been a frequent speaker for business majors at Cleveland State U. and at Kent State. He will *'Sce you in '69." 
OLLIE SCHELL, in public practice as a CPA in Tyrone, Pa., plans to attend the '69 Reunion. JIM CURRY's address is now Shadblow Hill Rd., Ridgefield, Conn. 
BILL NEFF and his wife returned on schedule from a Grace Lines trip to selected ports in Lima, Pent, Guayaquil, Ecuador, Colonihia and Panama. Their trip was most cnjoj-able and informative. They arc grateful for the generous cooperation 
DEVERE PLUNKETT SHAUGHNESSY HALL 
NOTRE DAME, IND. 40556 

1930 i 
MARTIN J. TRAVERS, prcs. of Liberty Na­tional Bank and Trust Co., Buffalo, has been named general chairman of ilic Western New-York division of ND's $52 million development fund campaign. 
WALTER M. LANGFORD, prof, of modern languages at ND, is one of four ND graduates who has been elected to three-year terms on the board of directors of the ND Alumni As5n. Wal­ter was also elected to represent the College of Arts and Letters on the Faculty Board in con­trol of athletics. 
Long Island Lighting Co. has elected EDWARD 

C. DUFFY its president. "Charlie*' Duffy began his utility career in 1942 as a design engineer at LILCO. In 1953 he was elected vice-prcs., and 
Congrats 
Edward Duffy '30 has recently been appointed the president of the Long Island Lighting Co. He was made a vice-president in 1957 and elected director of the utility in 1958. 
T, Qairc Keams '33 has been named chairman of the Fort Wright College board of regents. He has been a member of the board of the Spokane college for women for some time. He is active in social service work, serving as vice-president of an organization assisting in rehabilitation of the handi­capped. Kearns is asst. vice-president of the Seattle First National Bank, Spokane and Eastern branch. 
Charles M. Morrison '38 has been elected to the board of directors of the Virginia Association of Insurance Agents. Morrison, a partner in Tabb, Brockenbrough and Ragland, a Rich­

given them. His new history text will reflect the candid, firsthand information made available to him. He will be back in '69> 
The following is the content of a Ifay 28 letter from JIM KENNEDY, 6554 W. Imlay St., Chicago, III. "My son Tom is now in Wesley ^femorial Hosp. in Chicago, where two brain-tumor specialists are trying their best to cure him. He has lost 60 lbs. during his illness. Only by the grace of God and the prayers of our friends can we expect him to recover. 
"I am nearly ready to go back to my consulting engineering practice, following the stroke and heart attack of January 29. I am taking voice therapy at Mundelcin Col. from a wonderful nun who is helping me very much. Some of the *P and *ph* sounds come out alike .. . she is correcting them. I do my *home work* on a tape recorder and she checks it at her leisure on her tape recorder. 
"To pass the time, I sometimes write Just for the sheer joy of expressing my thoughts. The Chicago Daily Nrzvs publishes about 60% of my vignettes, one of which is enclosed . . . they had their own cartoonist illustrate and my family feels sure he must have seen me at some graduation ceremony, head in hand, bored to death-** 
The following arc excerpts from a June 5 letter from JIM KENNEDY addressed to "Friends of our son, Tom Kennedy.** "This is offered as prayer of tlianksgiving: Tom ^vas operated upon for the second time, June 3, for removal of a brain tumor. In the initial operation, inaccessible roots of the tumor could not be removed for fear 
in 1957 advanced to senior lice-prcs. He was elected a director in 1958. 
JACK CASSIDY sent us an ALUSINUS card to report that things were going well, although his recent travels have not uncovered any classmates for news. 
"BO" RICHARDS UTotc an interesting account of his family: "Please pardon the delay in sending you this report on the family that I promised you .••omc time ago. Here goes . . . My oldest son Dave lias joined the ranks of the Benedicts. Al­though he has been out of law school only 5 years, he is faring better than his senior, and I am happy about it. He has his own private practice but gives me a hand when I need him in my little private practice, in which I am engaged besides my Government duties as a claims oflicer. 
"My tu'o daughters, Suzanne and Kathleen, 
I ALUMNI IN THE NEWS 
mond insurance firm, ^vas appointed at the group's 70th annual meeting in Nassau, Bahamas. The VAL\ represents more than 3,500 persons engaged in in­dependent agency operations in the property and casualty insurance field throughout Virginia. 
George L Costello *4I has been ap­pointed to the board of directors of Prentice-Hall, Inc., one of the largest publishers of books and business services. He is also president of Parker Publish­ing Co. Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Prentice-Hall. 
George B. Morris Jr '41 has been promoted to director of labor relations of General Motors. He has been man­ager of the labor relations staff since February, 1966. He joined GM in 1941 following his graduation from Notre Dame. 
DUFFY '30 KEARNS '33 MORRISON *38 COSiaiO '41 MORRIS *41 
of damage to the brain, but It was hoped that the 
growth of another tumor would take several yean 
and allow the wound to heal sufficient for a more 
thoroi^h attach upon it. However, it grew xapidly 
after bringing Tom from the U. of Iowa Hosp. 
to a rest home in Chicago. Tom was failing last. 
This necessitated a second operatios at Wesley 
Memorial Hosp. 
**Dr. Bucy and his assistants, Drs. Jebona and 
Siqueria, performed the t^Kration, going into the 
cranium from a different direction, making it 
posuble to remove the tumor and presumably its 
roots, although the membrane that surrounds such 
a growth (comparable to the membrane that 
separates an eggshell from its contents) was so 
intimately attacJied to the brain, it could not be 
removed. If there arc no celts of the tumor at­
tached to this membrane, and the doctors believe 
they have removed them all, there is a gocxl 
chance of a complete inire. 
*"Tom came out of the operation in good shape. 
With the pressure removed from the brain he 
cotUd hear and respond to commands of the 
doctors. He is having a little difficulty breathing 
and is using a 'pump* earning oxygen and air to 
regain the natural rhythm of his lungs. 
**Through letters from Tom*s students and as­
sociate faculty members, his ^vill to survive ivas 
strengthened. For the return of our son, we thank 
God and trust that in his scr\'ice as a teacher he 
wilt be a valuable aid to society.** 
REUNION REGISTRANTS: James M. Curry, 
Francis Flynn, Eugene MillifT, Bill Neff, Cletus 
Schneider. 
after graduating from college worked until they 
saved enough money to tour Europe, which they 
did last year. They were away about six montlis, 
during which time they \'isited every country and 
capital in Europe. Besides they worked in Lon­
don and Augsburg, Germany, to supplement their 
funds, which enabled them to make more exten­
sive sight-seeing trips. They got back home at 
Christmas, and were we happy to see them, 
especially the undersigned since Alice made a 
trip to Riris to £ee them, and made several trips 
with them during her vbit of 2 weeks. 
**Don, my youngest son, had the good fortune to attend Slaur Hill Prep School, in Atchison, Kan., for four years. It is operated by the Bene­dictines, who do a masterful job in developing young men. You will recall Knute, Jr. and Bill Rocknc attended school there one year. Don had a great season in his last year, playing full­back on the third team in Maur HiU's history (1919) to go undefeated. The team was fabu­lous! They competed against schools that Iiad enrollments from 600 to 1900 students, which speaks well for the 287 lion's at Maur Hill. Don had several offers, two of which were from top flight schools (one pbys ND rcgulariy), but I persuaded him to pass them up and go all out on bis studies if he u-anted to get somewiiere in this competitive era. He appreciates it now since he has discovered that it takes a lot of time for homework in order to keep up in his lessons. Hc*s attending Missouri U. here in KC, and it is a treat to have him home after being away four years at Maur Hill. 
"Like all parents, I am mighty thankful tliat my luds arc receiving and have the benefit of a college education, because without it they are unable to compete. 
*'Dev, I am sorry to have burdened you with such a lengthy letter. My very best wishes to you and all our classmates. Pray this finds you all well and thriving." 
Dr. £ D YORKE is going into a residency in psychiatry at Camarillo State Hosp. in July which will qualify him as a psychiatrist. He has been uith the California department of mental hygiene since 1957. He sends a note of welcome to all 1930 Alumni traveling in California to come to sec him — a social visit of course — not profes­sional. 
GUS BONDI stopped by recently for a ^^t. He was in South Bend to handle some bu^ness affairs for his u-ife's family. Gus is still with Metropolitan in Cincinnati, but has greatly cur­tailed his buuness efforts. He has one son who is now a senior in high school and who likely vrill be coming to Notre Dame. 
JOE DRINANE wrote us a note from out in &blaysia: "Your letter finally cat^ht up with me oat here in Malaysia. I'm sorry I don't have any Class news as I never seem to run into many members of our Class. I do see quite a few N P men but most of them from later dasses.' I have been getting out to a game almost every fall and abvaTi stop in at the '29 get-together in the 
37 

engineering building to have a talk with my good friend Rev. LOU THORNTOX. 
*'As for m>'scU, I liavc been in engineering and construction since graduation. The past twenty-five years, time certainly AicSj about 50% on over­seas work and 50% domestic. I spent the first few months of this year in Ireland on a large otl terminal project and then had to come out here for a couple of months to write a report and estimate the cost of a proposed highu-ay plan. 
*'My daughter still goes back to ND every summer to continue her studies. As she is teach­ing and has the stunmcr off it is a good way to spend the time. 
"On my next trip back to ND I would like Very much to see you and will look you up." 
The Class will be sorry to learn of the death of WALT ROSSELIT of Dayton, Ohio. His family can be assured of the prayers of the 1930 group. 
 DOYLE 
1367 RIDGE AVE., APT. 308 EVANSTON, ILL. 60201 

1931 
JAMES T . 
REUNION REGISTR-ANTS: Austin Boylc, George Jacoboicc, John F. Saunders, Tony Sdireiner. 
1932 
FLORENCE J. McCARTHY 
6 RIVER RD. SCARSDALE, N.Y. 10583 

If no news is good news, then you fellows are all well. I received not a line from anyone. JIM DUBBS, however, sent me a wonderful snapshot taken at our Reunion last year of m>'sclf and the late Archbishop PAUL HALLIXAN. I shall treasure this. Othen%'isc I didn't even receive a good "change of address." ROBERT "BOB" H.ARTM.AN moved from Walnut Street to 1105 North Highland Avenue, both in Pittsburgh. He didn't even leave town. 
I know you all have received a letter from NICK RUFFING regarding donations in Paul Hallinan's name for the "Village of St. Joseph" in Atlanta, a project close to Paul's heart. It would be wonderful if 100% of us participate as a great tribute to our revered classmate. 
I think it might be fun if, using me as a clear­inghouse, those of us going to the NaN-y game next fall pick a gate number to meet at before game time. Let me know. 
JOHN A. HOYT, JR. GILLESPIE & O'CONNOR 
342 MADISON AVE. 

NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017 REUNION REG1STR.ANTS: Edward Ackcrman, George "Red" Armbrustcr, Steve Banas, John Barrett. Joe Bean, Michael Besso, Andrew Botti, Ray Brancheau, Joe Brehlcr, Anthony Brick, Daniel Casey, Lou Chrcist, Laurence Chouinard, Joe Clark, Cliarles Conlcy, Peter J. Connelly, Jr., Bernard Cousino, A. W. "Tony" Crowley, Edward Dailcy. Roland Dames, Joe Davey, Henry AL De-Voss, Bill Donahue, Rev. James Donnelly, CSC, Robert Dono\*an, Jim Doyle, Donald Draper, Norman E. Duke, Edu-ard J. Eckcrt, Ralph Ehr, Philip Fal\crty, Jr., Charles Farris, J. D. Fitz­pairick, Carlos H. Frank, A. J. Freehill, Jim Gcrend. John Gill, Ed Gough, Norman Grccncy, Jerr^' Greer, Charles Hafron, Msgr. Frank Harri-M)n, Roger Hcaly, Robert H. Heitger, Clarence J. Hess, Bill Higgins, Leo Hodel, Joseph A. Hofmann, Richard N. Hosteny, John A. Hoyt, Jr., Sam Hyde, Chuck JaskwhJch, Lucien S. Kcmpf, John E. Kennedy, Joe Kirincich, Maurice W. Lee, 
1933 
C. B. Lcnahan, Frank Lcnnartz, Robert Lewis, Martin Linskey, William A. Lynch, John J, McElwec, Frank S. McGee, F. Jay Martin, Bill Mitsch, Afartin Moran, Joseph F. Mueller, Louis 
C. Murphy, Raymond Naber, John J. Ncubauer, John B. Nicliols, Dr. Al O'Brien, Paul O'Neil, John J. 0'Shaughncss>*, John O'Toole. John Penotc, Rev. Maurice Powers, John Poynton, James P. Ross, Larry Sexton, Richard H. (Dick) Shicls, Jolin Sloan, William G. Smith, Edmund Stcphan, Rev. Lloyd \V. Teske, CSC, Ed Troy, Karl Vogclheim, Don F. AVise, William F. AVit­tcnburg, Fred ZactXow, 
Sec also pages 18 and 19. 
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD 523 W. HILLSDALE 
SAN MATEO, CAL. 94403 

1934 
WILLIAM F. RYAN 1620 E. W.ASHINGTON AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46617 

193S 
Dr. BOB MAHER, whose home is in Spokane, Wash., wrote from Da Nang, South Vietnam that he landed there the end of January as a volunteer pliysician to staff an eye clinic. He 
3S 
was stationed about 60 miles soutlnvcst of Saigon 
and had quite an experience during the >^ct 
Cong oflensivc in mid-February, when his area 
was overrun and had to be evacuated. He is now 
back in business in the northern section of Viet­
nam. 

BILL TOUMEY wTote with the surprising in­
formation that all these years he has never been 
officially listed with the Class of *35. This over­
sight was corrected with the Alumni Office. Bill 
responded again with news of himself and other 
classmates which I will quote: *^In response to 
your request for news for the Class notes, it just 
happens that I \^-as talking by phone today with 
AL LAWTON in Atkuita. Al is now president 
of Georgia International Corp. and his new 
address is 6l5 Pcachtrce Street, Atlanta 30308. To 
quote AI directly: "I now have six and two-
thirds grandsons." Al didn't tell me how to dis* 
tribute these between his two married daughters. 
AI's son, George, a recent graduate of Gonzaga 
is now in Chile on a Fulbright Scholarship. As 
for my family, my oldest, Priscilla, is a junior 
at Marymount Col. in Tarrytown, NV. Chris­
topher is a sophomore at Colgate and Richard, 
the youngest, graduates this June from I^oyola 
Prep in NYC. 
I sec BILL MURTHA frequently. He is still 
one of the top investigative reporters on the 
Ntw York Daily Ntzvs. ANDY MAFFEI tdls 
me tliat he, PHIL HEINLE and MIKE SAN­
TULLI have "the oldest established floating lunch 
club" of all ND alumni. They are occasionally 
joined by others in tliis area and Andy would 
like you to know they have moved from the St. 
Regis King Cole Room to the Barberry Room. 
Any visiting classmates who want to find out when 
the club is meeting next can phone PHIL HEINLE 
here in New York at his office, 765-4890. Bill 
is vice-pres. of Carl Byoir & Assoc., Inc., 800 
Second .Ave., New York 10017. 
I am in touch now and then with ART 
0*NEIL. On a very recent trip to Chicago, Art 
told me tiiat he and Mary liave taken up skiing 
in a big way and tr>- to get at least tu-o weeks 
of skiing in every winter out in Colorado, 
Several pleasant hours were spent with Alice and JOE KNAPP during commencement week end. I haven't seen Joe since graduation but would have recognized him anywlierc. Their son. Bill, graduated and for the occasion five of their eight cliildren were also in attendance and WC had tlie pleasure of meeting them. We are ex­pecting Joe to keep his promise to be at the next Reunion a few years hence. 
Louise and FRANK HOLAHAN were in town tliat weekend to attend the ceremonies. Their sec­ond son. Bill, also graduated this year and ^vill attend Brown U. ne.'ct fall on a scholarship. 
Too late to make the last issue, wc received a note from Mrs. BILL RENNEKAMP with the sad news that Bill passed away November 7, 1967. On belialf of the Class, we tattend our sympathy to her and the family. Her address is 20 Craw­ford Street, McKccs Rocks, Pa. in the event you w*ish to drop her a note. 
REUNION REGISTR^\N"rS: Judge John W. 
Carbcrry, John C. Carcsio, John P. FitzPatrick, Jim MacDcvilt. 
LARRY PALKOVIC 301 MECH.\NIC ST. ORANGE. N.J. 07050 

1936 
JOSEPH P. QUINN 
P.O. BOX 275, LAKE LENAFE 
ANDOVER, N.J. 07821 

1987 
BURNIE B.\UER 
1139 WESTERN AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46G2S 

1938 
REUNION REGISTRANTS: Louis L. Anderson, Paid Anderson, Rev. John F. Anton, Marcellus Ball, Bumie Bauer, John Bond. Charles Borowski, Rev. William A. Botzum CSC, John Bourke, Edward Bower, Dr. Daniel E. Boyle, Ed. Bren­nan, Jacob Burke, Pat Carey. Richard M. Car­rigan, James Carson, John D. Collins, Edward 
J. Condon, David Connor, John C. Cottingham, Dr. Custodc Crisci, David Crooks, Edward Cronin, Frank Crowley, Don Currier, Frank Delaney, Bob Dercngoski, Dr. A. William "Riggie" Di-Brienza, Lawrence A. Dillon, Joseph A. DiAfatteo, Joseph Dineen, James J. Dougherty, Robert Du-Bois, James £. Dutmers, Thomas J. Elder, Donald Fisher, Edward H. Fishwick, George FitzPatrick, James J. Flanagan. Edward Flanigan, Thomas P. Foy, Dick Gerl, William J. Gibbons, Daniel Gibbs, 
Robert H. Hackman, Richard Hennessy, Don Hickey, Frank Higgins, William Horan, Paul Hughes, Dr. Thomas M. Hughes, John Hurst, John Jehle. 1 nomas Jordan, Bro. Reginald Juszczak CSC, John Kane, Owen Kane, Ed Ka\*anaugh, Larry Kcnvin, John J. KHse, Phillip Kirch, Ernie Kling, Alexander Kovzelove, James Lahey, Nick Laraberto, Hal Langton, Jack Leadbctter, Jerome Led\^na, J. Russell Longon, Ray Longstreth, John Lynch, Ncvin "Bunny" McCormick, Francis H. May, John Moir, Walt Monacelli, John Monahan, Joseph Moore, Charles Morrison, Robert V. Mullen, William Murphy, Paid Nowak, William F. O'Brien, John C. O'Con­nor, Dr. Arthur Philson, John Poore, Frank Prusha, Paul Psik, Andrew Puplis, Rev. A. Joe Race, Scott Reardon, Clark L. Re>-nolds, Joseph 
K. Rowe, Frank Russell, Joseph H. Ruetz, E. Vcm Ruge, Richard J. Scannell, Hon. John A. Scott, Robert Shea, Tom Shells, Dr. V. Alan Sherrod, Emery "Bud" Sherwood, William L. Sixsmith, Leonard H. Skoglund, Donald H. Smith, Tony Suleski, Daniel Sullivan, Edward Sweeney, John Thomas, Joe Thomburg, Joseph F. Timmerman, John L. Tobin, Edward A. Uniacke, Cas Vance, Gene Vaslett, Thomas Weigand, Bob Whitccotton, Thomas W. Wukovits, Joe Zwcrs. 
1939 
JOSEPH E. HANNAN 1804 GREENWOOD DR. 
SOUTH BEND. IND. 46614 

It seems most appropriate to open this column with a special thanks to our long-remembered FRANK O'MALLEY, tlie professor's professor, for his eulogizing of our late classmate EDWIN O'CONNOR (ALUMNUS May-June 1968). No one else could have said it so well. 
Col. BOB KENNEDY USMC (Ret'd) com­pleted 27 years in the Corps, retiring July, 1967. Now in Thomaston, Maine, he is currently Deputy Warden, Maine State Prison. 
UN D night in New York saw a minor reunion of TOM GILLESPIE, JACK McGOVERN, HANK BORDA, CAS VANCE, JIM McGOLDRICK. FR.\NK BRIGHT, ED VON HOENE, PETE REPPETTI and their reporter. P.\UL TULLY. Thanx, Paul. FRANCIS J. MASTROPIETRO was recently reelected to Auburn, NY Board of Education for a third term. He is also a member of Cayuga County Catholic School Board. DICK ANTON, GE manager, International Employee Relations, SUMMAing Alumni employees — Saw your letter, Dick, simply great! 
"Gold Star" correspondent DAVE MESKILL writes the follouing: Betty and JULL\N TONS­}kfI£RE at ND for son Julian Kelly Tonsmicrc's graduation; Jean Ann Rice, daughter of PAUL RICE, married April 20, 1968; MOTTS TONELLI w-as main speaker at recent N D Chicago Club meeting—an excellent job. Dave also reports see­ing ED O'DONNELL in Bridgeport, Conn. Ed's older son graduated from Boston Col. in 1967. FR.\NK TOYNE is with TWA in New York. Dave and Adelaide Meskill's Kathleen is with VISTA in Shrcveport, La.; Susan at Illinois U.; and Patty will graduate from high school in June, 1969. TIM MESKILL '69 announced he will leave the benedicts' ranks in January, 1969. Haven't cleared with Dave so cannot announce name of the lucky gal. 
From this end of the pen, son PAT will enter Indiana U. Medical School in September, com­pleting all requirements at end of his junior year. While at ND he found time to participate in the Neighborhood Study Help Program as tutor and section leader, served on Honor Council and was one of eight juniors elected to membership in Alpha Epsilon Delta, International Scholastic Honor Society for premedical students. 
Let's use those yellow cards Yc Editor so kindly pronded. Would like to hear from more of you. Thanx—30. 
1940 
ROBERT G. SANFORD 233 W. CENTRAL AVE. 
LOMBARD, ILL. 60148 

This column must begin with my expression of sincere thanks and appreciation to all of you who have heeded my frantic pleas for news- Starting the day after I forwarded my kist article for the ALUMNUS, letters and cards arrived almost daily for more than a week. Thanks to this new Class activity wie will be able to renew many friendships and recall numerous pleasant associa­tions. Just keep the news coming and I predict our next Reunion, only two years away, will bo the greatest we have ever had. 
Please remember all of our deceased classmates in your prayers and also those who have had 
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 

dcatlis in their families. JAMES A. MLYNSKI 
'65-'66 son of JOHN J. MLYNSKI and brother 
of DAVID '66 was in a fatal accident. The 
mother of ED HUFF, and the father of JIM 
CASPER recently died. In the name of all men 
of '40 I extend our condolences to them. 
GERRY DONOVAN started the flow of news 
by writing: "When we graduated I was the only 
Class member from Tulsa, but things have 
clianged. After the war, FARRIS SAFFA moved 
to Tulsa and lives across the street. A year or 
so ago WAYNE WAHL left the hallowed con­
fines of South Bend and moved nearby. Our 
most recent addition is Col. JOE RYAN, for­
merly of Denver who has retired from the Air 
Force and is now a wheel with American Air­
lines. We used the occasion to celebrate our 
newfound Cbss strength at a ND meeting to 
introduce Joe." 
Rev. JOHN T. PAYNE CSC sent a card from St. Ignatius, Martyr, 2309 Euclid, Austin, Tex. 78704 saving: "Saw JOHN DARROUZET of Dallas several montlis ago after Sunday Moss here in Austin where I have been stationed for 17 yean. JOHN MEANEY is an asst. to the prcs. of Texas U. and doing a great job. Rev. BILL TOBIN of the Paracletes was here for a few da>-5. Looks great, and a most interesting 
speaker.** Our senior class prcs., HARRY BOISVERT, writes: "For the past 10 years I've been located in LA. Just completed five years' service as a superior court commissioner, sitting continuously as a judge pro tempore. Married, with a son Tom and a daughter Patricia who both attend UCLA. Anyone passing through should drop in at the Superior Court at HI N. Hill St., Dcpt. 7." Harry's home address is 4955 Mammouth Ave., Sherman Oaks, CaliL 91403. MATT GONRING, our good German friend from West Bend, Wis. has been witli B. C. Zleg-Icr & Co., Institutional Investments for 23 years. He celebrated 25 years of wedded bliss on April 3. 
Hb oldest of four daughters is married and Matt became a "Grandpa" on Dec. 11. It was a boy. CURT HESTER retired from the FBI last August to accept a position with American Oil Co. In Chicago as chief of their fraud investiga­
tions. Because of the travel involved Curt reports on many visits: "Had a very enjoyable viat with KEN COLLINS and family in Fargo. Talked to JACK MACK and REX ELLIS in CaU­fornia, both happily displaced Midwestemers. JOHN MARTIN is alu-ays the genial host on 
LI. His five and my five pretty well neutralize each other. Had lunch with GREG RICE *39 in NYC recently.** 
HANK DOWD was thoughtful enough to col­lect news at the Universal ND Night in NY and reports: "GERRY SAEGERT was the chainnan of the NY Universal Dinner and is to be con­gratulated as we had the largest attendance in the last decade plus a gay time. The men of *40 were well represented and time is catching up, as JIM ROGERS advised us that he just recently retired from the FBI after 26 years and is now* in charge of security as vice prcs. for a computer and electronic corp. 
"LEO SANTINI, a successful trucking execu­tive, looks fit and has been nominated by the Senate to be a Brigadier General in the reserve. JOHN KELLY traveled in from NJ, where he is directing hii own private investigation service. KEN BEH is with a public relations firm. 
"A recent arrival in NYC is ENRIQUE ARIAS, a mechanical engineer who escaped Cuba as a refugee after a successful career in Havana since graduating from ND. He proves the fighting spirit of ND men, as he arrived in Miami with his wife and three children but little else, has now developed a second successful career traveling around the country proving his worth during the last five years. Last January he was appointed vice-prcs. of National Sugar Co., proWng that good men do win. 
"Personally, the shipping industry has been hectic but interesting, as our American vessel, the 
U.S. Observer, has been detained in the Suez Canal since 6-5-67 and I can almost speak Arabic and Yiddish after many trips abroad, but not very well, as the ship is not moving. We all promised to meet at the Reunion in 1970.** 
Most issues would not be complete without a word from GERRY SAEGERT, so here is the itc\vs from his most recent letter. "Saw some of the men of '40 at the Mich. State game. LARRY 
DEVEREUX, my nMomiate for 3 Tcais* m a 
there with h^ fxaStf. Laxry*s aoa B31 is finnhiiig 
his jimior year at N D and is Unag in Lyons jnb 
just across from the room Larry and I had in 
193940. Also saw Rosemaiy and JOHN KELLE­
HER and the secminshr ever-present JACK. PIN-^ 
DAR. MIKE GORGAN wtote and advmd lie 
saw JIM DANER while on a scootins trip for 
Nebraska U. in the Detroit area. Jim has xe­
cuperatol well from recent suigeiT and is back 
on the job as a lea£ng tnal attorney in the area. 
**Met Jim Casper of Milwaukee at a conven-. 
tion. Jim's son was accepted at ND for tlus fill, 
and his eldest son graduated two yean ago and 
is now doing well in nud. scliool. DON GIL­
LILAND will be lea^ g I>illas soon and hopes 
to be in the Midwest this fall to see a' coapla 
ball games." 
Gerry then forwrarded some very SKI news. 
JOE MJ\NGANO was killed in an automobile 
accident. All of us wish to extend our ccmdolenccs 
to Joe's family and assure them that be will be 
remembered in our daily prayers. 
Now some news from Dubuque and TO U 
SCHMID who writes: "I've pretty mncb lost 
track of most of the fellows, and have always 
had a conflict of dates in Reunion yeais. After 
leaving school I went East to Bridg^iort, Cmm. 
to GE Business Training course. I momed with 
DAVE MESKILL *39 untU I was drafted' in 
IMl. 

"I see BILL SCHALLER a few times cacb 
year, and DICK McKAV MD '39 practices 
medicine here so we see each other regularly. I 
was married after the war- and our family con­
ssts of two boys* 16 and 14, and twin gills, 12." 
T<Mn was recently elected pres. of Natl As^n of Electrical IXstributozs. This association is ooe of the oldest and largest bard goods trade asM>­dations. Its membcrsbtp numbers over 1200 electrical wholesale ifistzibution bouses. 
Gcatlemen, tlus b one of our best columns and we can keep it t^ if yoa will keep yndJng news to Shorty. 
 SPELUUN 
SPEIXMAN & HADDEK 
342 MADISON AVE. 
NEW YOKK. N.Y. 10017 

1941 
JAMES F. 
KUHN "44 KLAAS '48 GROVES '50 MINAHAN 'SI REIDY '54 ROSEUEP '54 
ALUMNI IN THE NEWS
Congrats 
John M. Kuhn '44 has been named treasurer of the International Trade Club of Chicago for the fiscal year beginning July 1. He has been employed by General Binding Corp. since 1951. 
N. Paul Klaas PhD '48, executive vice-president of Wyomissing, has been elected a director of the company. He joined the company in 1965. 
James J. Groves '50, president of the Edgar Corp., makers of automotive stampings, mouldings and assemblies, has been elected to the Young Presi­dents' Organization, an educational association, with an international mem­bership of 2,200 young successful chief executives who have become presidents of sizable companies before the age of 

40 

Daniel F. Minahan '51 has been elected a director in the American Apparel Manufacturers Assoc, the nation's largest trade organization representing the apparel industry. He is vice-presi­dent and labor counsel for the Phillips-Van Heusen Corp. 
John J. Reidy Jr '54 has been named vice-president and trust officer of the Lake County National Bank Trust De­partment. Before moving into the finan-. 
cial field, Reidy was a practicing attor­ney with the Cleveland law finn of Falsgraf, Kundtz, Reidy and Shoup. He holds the rank of Captain in the Judge Advocate Corps of the US Army Re­serves and is president of the Holy Name Society in his parish in West-lake, Ohio. 
Rev. Raymond Roseliep PhD '54 bas been awarded the Kenneth F. Montr gomery Poetry Award for 1968 by the Society of Midland Authors for his book Love Makes the Air Light (W. W. Norton.) The book was described by the Society as "an original and perfect ait." 
I? 

^\1LLL\M M. HICKEY hundred applicants wlio were being considered. ever, he is in Washington much of the time, and 
P.O. BOX 8640A Joe joined Air Cargo, Inc. as director of pick-up tells us he would be delighted to hear from mem­
CHICAGO. ILL. 60680 

and delivery scr\-icc on Oct. 11, 1967, headquar^ bers of the Class of *42 whenever business or 
1942 
tering in Washington. He moved his wonderful pleasure brings them to the Nation's capital. His It is just about a year ago this time JOE family into a dcliglitful home midway between telephone number is 293-2222. Thanks, Joe, and CHAMPLEY flew from Chicago to Washington, Washington and Baltimore — and twelve miles happy flying! DC for an interview with Air Cargo, Inc. With from Annapolis. Even though it is \-acation time, don't forget t>'pical Irish luck, which he justly deserves. Joe Joe tells us his duties take htm to all parts to send us your news. May the fish bite better uas tlie successful applicant out of some half a of the country at some time or other. How­and our column grow bigger!! 
':;"T 

-SI E^^^^H :-^-S>i • '••"-J*-;  w  ­- 
-<^^^H';  
^^^''• f 1iSsSiesi • •-;:i«^-s. -^•^" r 1 m^^  ..^tii:  r«^.  
>t^<  

>r \^. li 
> ' 

't: 
•>ics::. 

Not looking a day over 47 or so, the Class of '43 posed for the Reunion photographer. 
FRxVXK KAISER 
307 CHERRY 
CH.-\TS\VORTH, ILL. 60921 

1943 
REUNION REGISTRANTS: Julian Atwater, Maurice Baddour, Jack Barr>*, Dr. James F, Baumgartner, Dr. John Bennett, Rev. George Bernard CSC, Joe Berr>-, Leo Blatz, John Bosak, John F. Boyle, William Brady, Jack Brehracr, Anthony Buono, Charles Butler, Ed. Callahan, Henry J. Caracciolo, Lou Caruso, Fred G. Christ-man, James R. Clark, Edmund Clear>-, ^Villiam Clemens, Robert W. Collins, Mike Comerford, Thomas Concly, Frank Conforti, Dr. Jim Cooney, Thomas Cooney, Roger Cummings, Gerald Cur­rier, Arthur Czapicwski, Robert Dcgcnhart, Fred Dcwes, William S. Dillon. Richard Diltz, William 
G. Doucettc, .Ambrose "Bud" Dudley, J. Ed Duquette, Bill Earley» Fred Evans, Gene Fclilig, Patrick J, Filley, Jolm Finnigan, Rev. Tlinmas F. Finucanc SJ, Paul A. Fibber, Rev. Bcdc Fitz-
JOSEPH A. NEUFELD 
P.O. BOX 833 
GREEN BAY, AHS. 54305 

1944 
To give tlie exact dates of our silver jubilee Re­union is impossible at this time because, up to now, the University has not released them. Prob­ably they will be cither tlie days at tlie end of the first week in June or similar ones one week later. Therefore, sons and daughters of *44ers (%vivcs, too, if one dare say so), do not select cither of tliosc weekends for any special demand­ing time-consuming events to keep Dad away patrick OFM, Raymond R. Flynn, Jim Gallagher, Dr. Fred Gans, John E. Garceau, Fred Gore, John M. Greene, Jack GrifHn, Richard Gulling, Dr. Dan Hagan, Don Haller, Howard Hanks, 
C. Richard Helser, Hans O. Helland, Donald Helt2el, Ed HIcfcey, Arthur Hiegel, Eugene Ililkert, Joe Hlllebrand, Rev. Robert HoflTman CSC, Edward L. Holland. William Hormberg, Oliver Hunter, George Huth, Joseph Jacob, Vincent L. Jerry, Cornelius Johnson, Frank Kaiser, Charles Kane, Richard W. Kelly, Harry 
F. Kelsey, Kenneth Kempf, Daniel Klein, Donald Kotz, Chuck Kralovec, Joseph Kremer, Bob Kulpcrs, W. Clair Lambert, John Lanahan, Robert LeMense, Dr. Paul Leonard, Leo J. Lewis, Leo LInck, J. Robi-rt McCafTerty, AVilHam T. McCaughey, Dick ^IcCormick, Jim McElroy, Blair McGowan, Graham ilcGoivan, Harry Mc­Knight and son, Harry HI, Dr. Brian Mc­Laughlin, George McQuIston, Bob Madden, James Madigan, Dr. Mario Massullo, Herb Melton, 
from his 25ih at ND- It's his turn to "Rise and Shine In '69." 
Already plans arc being formulated. TOM ROLFS, co-chairman, scheduled a meeting re­cently with BOB LEHM.AN who so ably or­ganized the 20th and with JOE DILLON. Yours truly \v3s to have attended but had to cancel out at the last moment. Within due time you will be hearing from Tom or "BLACK" JOHN MURPHY or a member of their committee. It is none too early to make plans. 
Some *44crs already have stated they would be on hand a year from now (at least they hope to Julian Michel, Bill Middendorf, Tom Miller, Dick Milliman, Sam Molter, Peter Morilz, John Mor­rison, Robert Mucllman, Robert Murphy, Edward Murray, Dr. James F. Murray, Dr. Richard Murray, Fred S. Nacgle, Edward F. Neagle, Rev. Kevin O'Dohcrty, Jim O'DonncU, Charles O'Learj-, Alfred Oliver, William J. O'Neil, Kevin O'Toolc, Dr. Bob Owens, Robert Padesky, Nick Palella, Robert T. Palenchar, Nicholas Pappas, Renzo Pesavento, Mark Pfaller, Donald Potter, John Rademaker, Bob Rcale, Bob Rogers, Ed\*"ard 
C. Roney Jr., Dr. Sam Rowbottom, John Schindler, Howard Schmitt, Ray J. Schoonhoven, WMIliam H. Scully, Wayne Shrlwisc, John Solon, Dr. Louis Spagnuolo, Bill Stewart, Oren Sticns, Quentin Sturm, Jerr>- Sweeney, Thomas Sweeney, John H. Tallett, Lawrence Tierney, Bob Timmer­man. Bill Ungashlcfc. William Waeldner, John E. Walsh, John WicthoIT, John Wood, Harry Wright, Wally Zlemba, Gus Znehlke. 
More dope on pages 22 and 23. 
make it). Since the last column went to press, cards were received from GUIDO ALEX.-\NDER, Columbus, Ohio restaurant entrepreneur and from JOHN CLYNE, Lincoln, Neb. physician and surgeon. '44crs in the Lincoln area should con­tact John re travel plans. Guido has been drumming up enthusiasm and has tentative com­mitments from BOB McBRIDE, JOHN JOHN­SON and JOHN KANE to be present a year hence. 
JOE KEARNEY reported a change of address lo 40 Kathleen Court, Packanack I.akc, Wa>-ne, NJ. Joe, tlic fatlier of four sons and four 
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 

daughters, is employed at ITT in neailiy Nutlcy, NJ. A fellow employee and also a neighbor is another '44er ARNOLD NUNNICK. Both these men pbn to trek to the Afidwcst in early June, 1D69. 
TONY BILOTTI, Queens Village, NY has volunteered to contact '44crs in his area regarding Reunion plans. He begs sons and daughters to pbn no weddings for tlie probable Reunion time. It would be tragic if Dad were at his 25th jubilee — or would it? 
Greetings came from Bishop Lynch High, Dallas, Tex. from Rev. JOHN REARDON OP. Father, an original '44t:r, left ND in 1942 for the white and black robes of the Dominican Fathers. Since his ordination in 1949 he has had \'ariou5 assignments — Newman chaplain at the U. of New Mexico, prof, of philosophy at the Col. of St. Catherine, St. Paul, dean of boys at Fenwicfc H5, Oak Park, and now principal of the bo}^ div. at Bishop Lynch HS. Father reports that JOE RUD is prcxy of the Men's Club and has a couple of daughters in the girls' div. of the school. 
A very welcome letter was received from Col. BILL KELLY who presently is on duty in Korea. His wife and three sons live in Omaha, the scene of his last stateside assignment. Naturally he misses his family but he said that he would not have passed up his present tour of duty, a most interesting and challenging job, for anything- He hasn't seen a '44er in years and unth the excep­tion of TOM ROLFS' annual holiday greeting seldom hears from one. Previously he had occa­sional contacts with KELLY COOK whose "miss­ing in Vietnam" still remains unsolved. Bill's address is—Col. W. J. Kelly, 314 Air Division, C.MR 2004, APO San Francisco 96570. 
Another fine letter came from DICK BRYDGES who with his wife Anne, son Hugh and daughter Margaret lives in Virginia Beach, Va. where for the past twenty years he has been practicing law specializing in trial work. His home is on the water so Dick has become an avid boatman and offsliorc fisherman. 
Let us hope and pray that the summertime has been, still is and will continue to be a liappy safe time for evcr>'one. 
1945 
FRANK M. LINEH.AN 
P.O. BOX 5000 
BINGHAMTON, N.Y. 13902 

REUNION REGISTRANTS: John Horrigan, Richard Walsh. 
PETER P. RICHISKI 
6 ROBIN PLACE 
OLD GREENWICH, CONN. 06870 

1946 
Recently PETER F. GAYDOS and liis family re­turned to Dallas, Tex. after having lived for five years in Mattland, Fla. Peter and his lovely wife Norma, %v'ho5c maiden name was Lambert and ^\•as from South Bend, have two children. Their daughter Vicki is a junior at the U. of Talla­hassee and their son Kent, six foot six and one-half, 200 lbs., is a freshman at Florida State U., on a football scholarship. Peter is Asst. director, data management for Vought Aeronautics div., LTV Aerospace Corp., and both he and his wife wish to be remembered to their many friends in South Bend. 
A short time ago I had the distinct pleasure of meeting up with ANTHONY (TON^) ROCCO whom I hadn't seen in 22 years. Tony was a member of the Notre Dame football squad before transferring to Canisius Col. in Buffalo, from which he graduated. He is director of sales, sports programs for Channel 7 in New York, and on many occasions meets up with ELMER ANGSM.-\N on his visits to Chicago. Tony, his pretty W'ifc Julia and their three children now make their home in Cos Cob, Conn. 
I regret that's all for tlirs issue. IVhy not jot down a few notes on the yellow card and mml it to me? 
^ / \ J nr JOHN MUELLER,, after three years I MZL / 3S assistant manager of the Houston A V i • Anheuser-Busch plant, has been named plant manager for the Jack­sonville, Fla. A-B brewery. The $40 million facility is now under construction with an opening anticipated in May of 1969. A memorial scholar­ship has been established in the name of JOHN 
F. MILES by the St. Joseph Valley Club of Notre Dame. The scholarship will pay four years' tuition at ND. REUNION REGISTRANT: David DcTrempc. 
ALUMNUS JULY \96Q AUGUST 
1948 
GEORGE I. KEENAN 177 ROLLING HILLS RD. 
CLIFTON, N.J. 07013 

REUNION REGISTRANTS: John Abcns, John Amberg, Lou Amberg, Burton Apkcr, Edward F. Aylward, Paul Bearman, Paul J. Bracken, Thomas 
P. Brogan, Lawrence E. Carr, Paul Cartivright, John J. Car\-il, John Cassidy, Joseph Chaput, James Clark, Thomas H. Clifford, Robert E. Concannon, John David Cooney, Jim Corcoran, Don Correll, Jim Costa, Leo Costcllo, Zig Siglsmunt Czarobskl, William Dalley Jr., Eugene Dean, Frank Debltetto, Jack Dec, John Defant, Anthony DIBari, John M. DIGann, L. Henry DIGirolamo, James M. Droney, Joe Dues, Russel 
J. Farrcll, John P. Fiizpatrlck, Joseph Flood, Louis Gasper, Gerald Gass, Joseph Gaucher, William F. Griffin, Wm. GrlfTy, John Harrington, Leonard B. Hart, Thomas R. Herbert, John Higgins, Thomas M. Higgins, John Hocck, W. L. Hutchens, Louis E. Janssen, George Keenan, Nell Kelly, Rudy Kempter, George Kennard, Joseph Kennedy, Robert Klein, Ben Kocbel, Albert J. Lamere, Roy Laughlln, Robert J. Logan, Carl Look, Tom Look, John Lujack, Joe Lynch, Jim McConn, John McCormick, Jim McCutcheon, Travis Marshall, William J. Mazanec, Jim Mello, Anthony Mistretta, Dominic Moffo, Robert W. iloran, Robert Murphy, Alfred O'Brien, Roger O'Reilly, Joseph O'TooIe, Donald Patrick, Jim Patterson, John Patterson, Bob Pierson, Charles Prescott, Joseph F. Quill, Jack Rauch, Jack Reagan, Paul J. Rlgall, Frank Romeo, Charles Ryan, Mario Santarossa, Robert Schlrmer, Paul Schlrmeyer, Robert J. Schoonovcr, George Sealy, Frank Sierawski, Francis M. Spiegel, Raymond P. Srsie, Dick Stack, C. Jim Siyers, Robert C. Taylor, Ralph Thorson, George Tobin, Gasper Urban, Albert Ward, John Welch, Joe Wilcox, La^vrence \Voods, John Wright. 
LEO L. WESLEY 
155 DRIFTWOOD L.\NE 
ROCHESTER. N.Y. 14617 

1949 
JOHN W. THORNTON 
4400 MONSERRATE ST. 
CORAL GABLES. FLA. 33146 

1950 
Afany interesting things have been going on at the University and in the Church due to Vatican II. Aly second Alumni Senate Meeting this past May on campus was rewarding. I was in contact with many students this past visit and can report that I would feel both honored and safe in sending my boys to Notre Dame today. Somehow, students all over the countiy' are so interested in individual rights that they and their universities and their parents forget to teach thein that there is a hierarchy of \-a!ues and tl»at individual rights arc sacred and Inviolate in the absence of some over­riding common good or paramount rights of others. You may find that universities and administrator have abrogated their duties to teach that there Is a hierarchy of \'alues and that there is a lawful authority. 
I know with the good moral, philosophical and tlieological training our Class got at Notre Dame we will fill the gap for our children and also insist that administrators teach more than individual rights. What Is your reaction to the students petitioning to reduce the quantity of courses in philosophy and tlieology at N'otre Dame? Wc are all dilTerent, but I find these courses develop for me a rudder of direction. 
Last Jfay on Campus I sa^v ROY DEEB, St. Petersburg, Fla.; RUSSELL SKALL, Fox River Valley; JOE ARCHIBALD; DICK CORDASCO; JOE JUDGE; BOB KANE; R.-\Y MARTIN; HENRY FLETCHER. DICK SOISSON was at the Old-TImers Game. JOE HARRINGTON is with the AV:t» York Times. Joe Feeney of the Lawrence Welk Show has a brother in the Class of M8 from Appleton in the Holy Cross Order wlio keeps an eye on RUSS SKALL for me. 
BOB K.A.NE r«.ports as a sales engineer in the Indianapolis area that he has seen ROGER HOSBEIN in Chicago and that BOB WELCH is state commander of the American Legion in Indiana. 
We discussed a slight change since we were in school, such as the beautiful lakefront view with sailboats and the new library and the dome in the background; a senior bar off campus owned and operated by the seniors and well super\'ised by policemen; refrigerators and telephones in the rooms; females, including nuns, lounging on all banks of the lakes; No Playboy magazines in sight; the most articulate and well-mannered and pleasant students. 
Jim Carberry had us as guests at the faculty lounge. Frank O'Malley this past June will have 
been at Notre Dame 35 years. TOM CASSIDY is 
teaching in southern Illinois. AU in all the visit 
was inspiring. The student leaders are aware of 
working within a Christian framework. 
Also rewarding is the fact that in addition to a 
Hanratty-to-Scymour combination you may see a 
sophomore Theismann-to-Poskon-or-Eaton combina­
tion, with Colcy O'Brien taking TOM SCHOEN's 
place as safety. 
GENE CAMPANELE has been appointed assoc 
director of the office for education research at 
ND. JIM TANSEY, footbaU and boskctbaU coach 
at Bciger Junior HS in Mishawaka, has been 
named coordinator of athletics at the South Bend 
regional campus of Indiana U. JOEL BULLARD, 
South Bend real estate and mortgage company 
executive, filed for Republican nomination for 
state senator. 
BUD ROMANO reports their seventh child, 
Donald Jr. His wholesale liquor business moved 
into a new modern one-story warehouse in Chicago. 
He saw* TO.M McHALE and talked with his old 
roommate, TOM SAGG.-XU, now living in Fort 
Wayne. EMIL CITKO is in all of our prayers for 
his recovery from a heart attack. 
MARK MARQUELING, in Moraga. Calif., reports being transferred to the San Frandsco office of Otis EI«*ator Co. His oldest started San Jose State last fall, namely. Chuck, 19, and Jean Marie, 16, Steve, II, Richard, 10, and Eileen Marie, one, arc enjoying the California climate. 
BOB KR.'\EMER (SMC's Sisters Pat and Jan) has moved with his wife Anne and children Kathy, 11, Joan, nine, Stephen, eight, Anita, six, Tim, four, to Washington DC where he is working at NASA headquarters as mgr. of advanced planetary programs. JIM ALARTIN is working there as mgr. of the aeronautical flight systems. Bob oc­casionally sees WALT GEUDTNER (head of Cleveland office for General Dynamics), DON DOOLEY and TIM HANRAHAN (launches the US.AF Atlas and Titan HI at Cape Kennedy). 
JOE GERARDI has left Grumman as chief reliability engineer on Apollo Lunar Afodule, to manage his deceased father's estate. PETE ESPENAN, MD and Isabelle, Pete, Don, Anne, Kathy, Gregory, P^ul and Janine get as far as Pensacola beach on the way to sec the Rams-burgers in St. Petersburg but never farther. He is looking forward to the Notre Dame-Tulane game October 25, 1969 in New Orleans and hopes all of hb old friends ^rill pay him a visit at the remodeled Old Homestead. He has heard from DON HOLLAND MD in Vegas and JACK ARGUE MD in Plttsfield, :Mass. 
BOB WAGNER in Chicago reports that the ART ARQUILLAs have moved to Encino, CaliL Bob congratulates—and we join in—Class Agent GUS CIFELLI for our contribution record. JIM FITZSIMMONS JR has his insurance agency in Newark. TOM FARLEY was elected freeholder in Essex County (Newark). 
Alay you all have a good summer. There are sLx issues of this magazine a year. Please write, or ask your lovely wife to run a contest to see which of your children can write me the best. 
REUNION REGISTIUNTS: Donald M. Helling­hausen, John J. Kowalczyk. 
m
J.A!lf ES JENNINGS BORG-WARNER CORP. 
200 S. MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO. ILL. 60604 

Two issues ago wc erroneously placed ANDY Mc-
KENNA and Schwarz Paper Company on LaSalle 
Street rather than at their correct address, 1430 
S. Canal in Chicago. Sorry, Andy. Thanks to JOE RIGALI for the correct address. Joe should know, as he is now* selling industrial paper pack­aging and specialty items for Schwarz, 
-Another recent job change was made by JACK BECKER, who is now Midwest regional mgr for Chandler Leasing, at 1301 W. 22nd St., Suite 501, Oakbrook, 111. Jack promises to lease any­thing so give him a call. 
DAVE GUSHURST dropped a note from 901 Edison, La Junta, Colo. 81050 where he has been an attorney for some eight years- At that time Dave married a widow wt h t^vo children; Cindy is 13, and Don is 11. They also have a litde girl, Kelly, five. The Gushurst family cnjo>3 the western geography and invite any classmate travelling US 50 to stop in. Letters from classmates would also be appredated. 
Another attorney is DAN MINAHAN, vice-pres and labor counsel for PhilHps-Van Hcusen. Dan married the former Jean Gaffney in 1953 and their two children are Daniel, Jr., 13, and John, II-Thc Minahans live at 46 Round Hill Dr., Fair­
41 

field. Conn. 06430. Dan was recently named one of twelve directors to serve three-year terms on tlic board of the American Apparel Manufacturers Assoc. 
In our own back >-ard BILL PRI.XDIVILLE works in Chicago for Amoco Ciiemicals, a sub­sidiary of Standard of Indiana. Bill married Jane Wilder in 1956 and they live at 1535 Chapel Ct., Deerfield, III. 60015. Their three children arc Sliaron, II; Sheila, seven; and Eileen, live. An old (that is, crstwliile) roommate of Biirs, ART GOLDKAMP, is a research chemist with G. D. Scarle in Skokie. Art ^rtnt on in biochemistry at Loyola and the U. of Illinois where he received his PhD. He married Virginia Stewart in 1952 and they live at 1182 Chatfield Rd., Winnetka, 
111. 60093 with tlieir seven children: Bob, Steve, Julie, Amy, Brian, Tim and Jeffrey. 
Here is a report on three of our classmates from a correspondent who insists on anonjTnity: 
CHUCK COHX, who was popular even before ecumenism, is the father of five children, including twins. He recently retired as a leading manager in the Gary Little League when it u-as discovered he could no longer bend over to field ground balls. 
BILL HARTY, a big^Wg with Kecbler Cookies, is kept busy selling cookies and attending meet­ings. He spends his spare time helping to develop dropkicLers among the neighborhood boj-s. 
KOBE TAYLOR of Lombard is a neighbor of JIM "Tiger" OTOOLE. Hobe is helping "The Tiger" get in shape for the Alumni Bengal Bouts. 
We can amplify the news of Jim O'Toole, who is with Amplienol in Broadview. III. Jim and the former Rita Grogan were married in 1957. They live at 810 E. MadiNon St., Lombard, III. with their six children: Jimmy, nine; Tom, eight; Maureen, seven; Larry, six; Katlileen, four; and Michael, two. 
BOB RAYMOND and Donna have moved into their new home in Jacksonville and were seen \*acationing in Nassau. Bob had just shot an 86 and is wiorking diligently to take on JACK MULDOON at the Reunion. In addition to those lines Bob was already handling as a dis­tributor, he has recently taken on Concord Tape Recorders and the Waste King product line. Business in and around Jacksonville appears to be good and is expanding. 
Also had an engraved note from JACK MUL­DOON expressing his thanks for not being men­tioned in this column. Glad to oblige. Jack. 
After some 13 years away from this area DAN B.AGLEY returned about a year ago and lives at 413 Benton, LaGrange Park, III. 60525. Dan travels extensively for Powcrlock Floors. He mar­ried the former Nancy Schmich and their six children range in age from 14 to four: Daniel, Jr., Joseph, Beth, Jean, Trish and Mike. 
DICK HERRL E and family Hvc at 2358 Wil­louay, Yorktown Hts., NY 10598. Dick married Gladj-s Schlchlein and their four children are Richard, Jr., Donna Marie, Robert Louis and Tara Marie. Congratulations are in order for Dick who recently left Nestles to become cor­porate director of new product development for the Continental Baking Co. When not travelling Dick is at their research laboratory in Rye, NY. .•\fter tliey have solved the problem of dehydrating a young lady they will have a great packaged cake mix suitable for stag parties, - smokers, etc. 
A last reminder for our get-together after the Northwestern game on October 12. Please listen for an announcement at the game of where the Class will meet. 
WILLIAM B. KING 
613 E. DONMOYER AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46614 

1952 
From Littleton, Colo, comes word of the ad­ventures of L. H. "LOU" RIPP. Lou is the father of three kids, Kathleen (14). Michael (12) and Dcbra (8). In 1964 he joined Samsonite Corp. as mgr.-chcm. cng. In Jan., 1968 he \%*as promoted to corporate mgr. of R and D. He made Wh-*s Who in the West in 1967. Works real closely with the Scouts, having attained a Silver Beaver .\ward. Lou still s^^-ats the handball around and when things get dull, he climbs mountains. 
ROBERT G. **BOB" TREHEARNE moved to Connecticut in June, 1966. Bob went into business for himself in Dec, 1967. He is the owncr-mgr. of the Arnold Palmer Cleaning Center in Norwalk, Conn. All 1952 Grads arc cntidcd to one year's free la-ndry and cleaning by merely flying in duty clothes—No orders under twenty suits, please. Bob now lias three children—Anne Alaric (1), Afichacl (3), and Mary (4). 
DON KOTOSKE is returning to South Bend as an osteopathic physician and surgeon. He grad­uated in June from Chicago school of osteopathic medicine and will begin internship here in July. Don is anxious to bring his wife and five young­sters back to his old home town. Hmmm—free medical advice!!! 
Rev. WILLIAM TOOHEY CSC is also heading back to the Bend. After 69 years, the House of Theology for Holy Cross Fathers in Washington DC is being closed. Fr. Bill is being reassigned to teach in the profession program at ND and will join the theology dept. faculty. In addition, he will continue preaching around the country while living at the Holy Cross Mission House on Dixie. Fr. Bill abo was elected prcs. of the Christian Preaching Conference formerly the Catholic Homiletic Society. 
PHIL TOOLE writes from Providence, RI that business with the advertising and public relations firm of Fitzgerald and Toole is booming. With a name like that, it's only natural the largest clients 
Congrats 

are Poles and Hungarians. Phil and his wife live just over the line in Alass. They have two daughters—Martlui Mary (7) and Maura Mul­holland (1). Be on the lookout for Phil this fall at the Na\"y game. Please, sir, a full report on the happenings. Phil also mentioned that he sees BERNIE McSALLY (of Huddle fame) quite often. Bemie is now* practicing successfully on both sides of the bar. 
JOHN FR/\NCIS KENNTT received his MA in secondary school adm. and super\isor from Western Mich. U. 
A year ago our classmate FRANK J. HAENDLER moved from Chicago to Sao Paulo, Brazil. By now, Frank ought to have all the coffee beans pretty well counted. That address—c/o US Consulate, Sao Paulo is right out of 007. 
By the way, TOM CHISHOLM, stop moving, you'll never escape us. Tom is back in Odessa after a short fling in Franklin, La. 
From reports in the AI-UMNUS magazine, the first annu 1 all class reunion will be held aficr the Northwestern game on Oct. 12 in O'Shaugli­nessy Hall. So as many as possible, be there for "fun and games." See you all Oct. 12. 
j ALUMNI IN THE NEWS 
BORES '47 DUNN 'ST MARANTO RUFE FANELII 
Six Notre Dame Alumni observe this year as important in a very special way. Five are celebrating their twenty-fifth year as Holy Cross Brothers and one his fiftieth year of ordination. 
Bro. Elwin Bores '47 " a Milwaukee native. He has taught in Chicago, Sherman Oaks, Mountain View and is currently teaching in Long Beach. 
Bro. Fulgence Dougherty '45 is a 
native of North Dakota and graduated from Notre Dame magna cum laude after taking his first vows in 1943. He serves as Vicariate Religious Superior in East Pakistan where he has been stationed since 1948. 
Bro. Fabius Dunn MA "51 comes from Madison, Wis. He entered the Con­gregation of Holy Cross in 1941. He now teaches at St. Edward's U. and is head of the social sciences department. 
Bro. Peter Celestine Maranto is pres­ently stationed in Brazil where he is teaching and a member of the council of Colegio Notre Dame. He served in various capacities around the US before taking the assignment in South America. 
Bro, Mark Rufe is teaching and pre­fecting at St. Edward's U., Austin, Tex., after ten years as director of vocations in the mid- and south-west. He comes from New Jersey. 
Rev, Salvatore P. Fanelli CSC '18 was 
ordained June 16, 1918 in Sacred Heart church. A native of Louisville, he came into contact with Notre Dame when his family moved to the South Bend area. He has held many posts, includ­ing a 24-year stint in St. Joseph's parish. South Bend. He is celebrating his anniversary with Masses in several of the parishes in which he has served. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 

195B 
W. F. "BUD" STUHLDREHER 11006 JEAN RD. S.E. HUNTSVILLE. ALA. 35803 
REUNION REGISTRANTS: Andrew P. Adel­hardt, Jerry Adler, Richard Anderson, William Antonis, Dr. Ralph Argcn, Richard Audino, Robert Barbicri, Vergil Bardash, Lou Basso, Robert Berry, Maynard Bissonnctte, Robert Bitt­ncr, James Blackburn, George Blubaugh, Lou Bourjaily, Hugh R. Braun, James Britt, Joseph Buckheit, Edward Buczkiewicz, Daniel (Dan) Cafarelli, W. Leo Cahalan, J. Thomas Cantwcll, John Carroll, Rev. Daniel Carter, Louis Cav­anaugh, John Clark, Phil Clemens, Dr. Daniel Collins, Tom Collins, Jerry Connors, Dave Costtgan, Bryan Coughlin, Charles "Carlos" Crowley, Emory Dakoske, Ed DcBocr, Al De-Crane, William DeCrick, Joe Dclisi, Joseph Dcsautels, John Dilcnschncidcr, Leo Dohn. Jack, Donoghue, Donald K. Dorini, Michael A. Doyle, Bill Dudine, Harry Durkin, Bill Dw>cr, Bob Dyer, R- Larry Eaton, C. Jim Edelcn, Jack Endcrs, Paul Farmer, P. Tom Fcldpausch, Joe Flnan, John Fish, F. AI FitzGibbon, James Foley, 
1954 
MILTON J. BEAUDINE 
21 SIGNAL HILL BLVD. 
E. ST. LOUIS. ILL. 62203 

What a year! What a week! Umpiring boys' baseball I got hit in the ear with a high fast one and tonight the girls* softball team I manage lost its third game 29 to 7. About the only thing I have to look forward to is teaming up with BOB PODEN to beat BOB WRIGHT and DICK C.ASTELLINI prior to the ND-Oklahoma game and our yearly Reunion party. And don't forget next June in our I5th (would you believe jt?) Reunion. Plan for it now! 
I must admit you guys are hanging in there. Thanks for all the cards. DON ZECH. wife Carol and their four bo>-s and two girls have made a move. Don has left the U. of Washington to take over as head basketball coach at the U. of Piiget Soimd in Tacoma. Wash. Don invites us all to visit him in "God's" country. LARRY MORAN's better half Peg writes that Larry is with United Aircraft in East Hartford. He's goalie on the company hockey team {toothless?). Larry and Peg have two little ones, the latest Kcrin being bom on Jan. 1. 
 FULLMER 1922 LARKDALE DR. 
GLENVIEW, ILL. 60025 

1955 PAUL 
There are times when it's no fun to be Class secretary. One time is when you ser\'e as bearer of tragic news. This is one of those times. On behalf of the entire class, I wish to extend our deepest s^-mpathics to JIM CAHILL, one of the nicest and most popular gu>'s in the cLiss, on the death of his vnfc, Barbara, who succumbed to cancer on May 12. A special Mass was said in her memory on campus on May 18. Jim, who seldom missed a Class Reunion or gathering, lias two children. 
Condolences, too, to JOHN WEITHERS, on the death of his mother. A ^lass also ^vos said for her at Notre Dame. 
Many thanks to all those who pulled out the yellow card and dropped me a note. Why don't yon try it sometime? It^s painless. DICK REAMER sent the following bulletin: "After a baker's dozen years, leaving Vienna, (with MD and Diplomatc in NeuroIogy-Psychiatr>*), to 'set up shop' in Honolulu and shift from the Notre Dame Club of Rome to the one in Hawaii. Auf Wicdcrschcn . , . Aloha.** 
TOM PRENDERGAST received his PhD in philosophy this June from St. Louis U. and will begin teaching at Marquette in September. He spent six weeks at ND this summer at a Carnegie Summer Institute on analytic philosophy. While on the subject of ND, Rev. JOE O'DONNELL, who has been at the retreat house on campus preaching that old-time religion, expects to be heading for Vietnam in September as a Navy chaplain. He has been in the reserve for four years and spent considerable time on the West Coast last summer with Marines leaving for the Far East. 
Father Joe reports that he talked to Lcdr. ROCCO TANNONE in January while in San 

ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 
Thomas E. Foote, Victor George, James V. Gib­bons, Robert Gleason, Edward Greason, Mike Grozier, Patrick Gunning, Jerry Hammes, Al Haney, Dan Hardin, Paul Harrington, Joseph H. Harrison, Richard Harvey, Arthur G. Henken, Francis Hennigan, Andrew Hemon, Dick Herp> mann, Bemie Hester, Donald Hicks, George J. Higgins, Herman Hoffmann, James Hutchinson, Joe Jasinski, William Kcane, Jerome W. Kelly, William R. Kelly, Joseph Kennedy, James J. Klink, Louis Kraft, William I. Lammers, Robert 
E. Lee, Norb Lcwinski, Gene Little, Jim Loney, Richard T, Lorenz, Joseph MacKrell, Bill Mac­Millan, Gerald V. McCabe, Ed. McCarthy, Dick McConnell, John McCormick, George McCourt, Bernard AfcDermott, David McElvain, Joseph Mclnerncy, Larry McKim, Rev. Michael Mc-Kinstra, Charles McMahon, Joseph McManus, Thomas McNamara, John Maher, Jim Malooly, Gerald Marshall, John Mason, Henry J. Massman in , Thomas W. Matey, Bill Maus, Boris Mehoff, 
J. Robert Mitchell, Patrick Montroy, Thomas Morsch, Robert ^[uIle^, Robert Munns, Daniel Murphy, Thomas C. Murphy, Walter J. Murphy, Ricliard Nault, Wallace Neyerlin, Robert Niquette, 
Another New Englandcr is ANDY CORRAO who's kept busy looking after his six boys and one girl. Andy and Afarie live in Greenrille, RI where he's a communications market mgr. for the Ampcrex Electronic Corp. He's run into BILL OFFUTT, a sj-stems engineer for the Mitre Co., who lives outside Washington, DC with his wife and five kids. He's also run into JOHN SCHLOEGEL from Milwaukee. That's not news, most everyone runs into John somewhere or other. 
Even RAY TIERNER wrote. Ray and Kathy have five little ones and Ray is now a partner in the Newark, NJ. law firm of Shanley and Fisher. One comment needs clarification, Ray. Is your expertise in pneumothorax personal or profes­sional? If professional — write!! 
TOM RYDER, 2278 Country Club Dr., Ktts­burgh. Pa. summarized the past 14 years in 11 lines. He completed law school at ND in 1957 and toured with Uncle Sam for two and one-half years before starting private practice in New York. He switched to the patent dept. of Gulf Oil in 1963 and married the former Pat Peters (College of Mt. St. Vincent). 
Francisco. He continues as a career ofhcer in the Nax"y and is in charge of seven large commis­saries in the Bay area. Rocco and family live in Alameda. The good cleric also spoke to JOHN O'MEARA while on the circuit in Detroit. John now is "moonlighting" as treasurer of the Dcm(^ cratic State Committee for Michigan. 
LEE CREAN and his grass roots approach to the poverty program in South Bend has finally been fully recognized and he no longer has to depend on Big Brother in Washington for funds. The local Cliambcr of Commerce has stepped in to sponsor the entire project, which may be the first time a dty group took over a federal pro­gram. 
BILL McLAIN (2770 Dartmoor Dr. NE, War^ ren, Ohio) checks in ^rith the information that he welcomed Bridget Ann in January, the first girl in six generations in his family! He also has an 18-month-oId boy, Patrick. Bill %vas reelected to his third term as city solicitor in Warren. He would like me to publicly ask ED FOX to dis­continue calling from L.\ at 5 a.m., disregarding the time zones. Bill adds that RAY SCHRYVER is back in Warren, worldng in the district at­torney's ofHcc. 
DON LANSPA (7510 Maple Lane, Raytown, Mo.) used one of the yellow cards to let me know that his second son, Paul, arrived on Feb. 19. Don abo has a little girl Patricia. 
GEORGE VOSMIK (U28 Brainard Rd., Lynd­hurst, Ohio) brought me up to date on his activities during the past several years. He now has tuio boj-s and two girls. George is general supervisor of the industrial sales department at the Illuminating Co. (electric priv-ate utility) in Cleveland. He and his bride look forward to seeing one and all at the Class cocktail party in the Shamrock Room in the basement of the Morris Inn after the Purdue game. 
Rev. JIM SHERER should be in East Pakistan by the time you read this. He is teaching political 
Daoid Noc, Thomas Nourie, James T. O'Brien, Jerome O^Connor, Da^^d W. Ogrco, John R. O'Laughlin, David O'Leary, Robert P. O'Neill, Cornelius "Neil" O'Regan, John Pairitz, Dr. James Patterson, George Patton, John Peck, John Peters, Richard J. Petrarca, James Pfeiffer, Jtm Pfohl, John Porta, Edward Powell, Jack Powm, Larry Pridmore, Tom Reedy, BQl Reidy, Jim Riely, William Roche, Jtm Rogers, Donald K. Ross, Paul Rupp, Robert Rust, Robert Schaefer, John Schmidt, John SelUck, John M. Seng, Haixr Shay, Charles Sheerin, Robert A. Shonk, Ralph Schuiz, Harry SicUer, James Silk, C. JertHue Smith, Donald Smith, James Smith, Patrick Smith, Dick Snee, Cy Snyder, Vane Snyder, Dave SpoQscUer, Stanley Stasch, Ken Stead, Charles Stimming, John Stoepler, Walter Stuhlderher, WUiam D. Stuhldreher, David Thornton, James Thulis, Frank Traupman, George Tresch, Ray­mond N. Trompcter, Gerard A. Voit, Richard C. Wagner, Robert K. Wagner, John Wathen, James 
A. Welch, Walter Werner, James Willcox, John Woeppel, Lester Zaczek, Rev. Eugene J. Zcmpfer SJ, Claude Zuba. 
Read all about 'em on pages 26 and 27. 
BOB BALLANGEE married Connie Schubert 
also of the Mt. Tom and I^t have three little 
ones, the latest coming up is Jimmy in October, 
1967. 

Rev. R.AY ROSELIEP of Holy Family Hdl. Dubuque, Iowa received the Kenneth F. Mont­gomery Poetry Award for 1968 in Chicago on April 6 for his book Lout Makes tkt Air Light 
{W. W. Norton, 1965). PAUL ROH&tAN was appointed Eastern finan­cial sales mgr. of the Ford Motor Credit Co. in Stamford, Conn. ROGER NOLAN has been named one of the two divisional attorneys for the Ben^x Corp. life support dW. in Davenport, 
Iowa. That's all the news. I need material, gang. Write! 
Lastly — in just a few days \&rie and I vnH celebrate No. 10. That's a long rime for any­one to put up with me. It occurred to me that many of us June bridegrooms are celebrating our anniversaries at this time and would all like to use this medium to thank our brides. So girls, thanks for all these wonderful years and thanks for getting us to the games and Reunions, and everything. We love you all. 
science at Notre Dame College there and unng the vacation periods for community development actiWty in Dacca %rith its 500,000 people. Those of you who would tike to help Father Jim in his i%tirk can send checks (made payable to Holy Cross Missions) to Holy Cross Bfissions, 4301 Harewood Road, N.E., Washington, DC 20017, noting that the funds should go to him. His nuuUng address Is Notre Dame College, P.O. Box 5, Dacca 2, East I^kistan. For those who would still like to help classmate PAUL HAUHNAR in his efforts to bring a better life to hts people, write him at Ave Maria Cottage, Kfadanryting, Happy Valley, Shillong 7, Assam, India. 
Here's the latest on troops who have moved recently: PAT McAWARD, U Terrace Park, Garden City, LI, NY; CHUCK DEGER, 3512 Allison Way, Louisville, Ky.; FRED WHITFIELD, 5024 Dickens Ave., Tampa; ED KELLY, 2311 
N. Breighton PI., .Wington Heights, HI.; JIM DUFFY, 711 Hobard Dr., Florence, SC; CHUCK HANLEY, 22 Sarati^ Way, Short Hills, NJ; DICK SCHERER, 410 Shermer Rd., Glenview, HI. (welcome to the neighboriiood, Dick!); and FRED GALIONE, 8345 Queen Elizabeth BI\'d., Annandale, Va. 
TOM JAMES has been named buuness man­ager for Nazareth Col. in Rochester, NY. JIM DELINE has been promoted to district sales manager for Mead Containers in Denver. Con­gratulations to JOE SASSANO, who has been named asst. director of the new sports complex at ND. Joe had been head football coach at Weber High School in Chicago for nine years. BERT METZGER has helped establish a highly successful legal aid office for low inccmie groups in the state of Washington and recently won a case in the Supreme Court. 
Don't forget to round up the gang, form a car pool, and head for the Prndue game to swap Ccs with the rest of the gang. See you then! 
REUNION REGISTRANT: James J. Itiley Jr. 
1956 
EUGENE O'CONNOR 
COSGROVE & O'CONNOR 656 ELLICOTT SQ. BLDG. BUFFALO, N.Y. 14203 
Sunday, May 26, a Mass was offered by Rev. Joseph Fey CSC, chaplain at ND, for JIM WAL­LACE who died May 11. Please remember Jim in your prayers. 
JIM FISHER, who is practicing law in Kingston, NV, advises that he is most interested in learning of the proposals of the committee formed to study the possibility of establishing a scholarship fund at ND for sons of deceased members of our Class. Jim has offered his services to assist in the work of the committee. 
JOHN DWYER MD dropped a line from the 12th Evacuation Hosp. in Cu Chi, Vietnam. It seems, among other activities, they play softball over there and he and ANDY AfcROBERTS MD were looking for\rard to the start of the season. 
THOMAS C. OBENCHAIN, field supcr\isor for Chicago film office of the DuPont Co., has just returned from five years in Europe. JOHN 
J. CLEMENCY has been named an associate of the Perkins & AVill Partnership, architectural firm, wth offices in Chicago, New York and Washington, DC. 
The Midwest contingent w-as well represented in a letter I received the other day from BOB COSTELLO who Is now in Ncenah, ^Vis. and will soon open a new claims office of Insurance Company of North .America for northeastern Wisconsin. While skiing in Aspen last year. Bob and his wife Linda discovered that the logl Italian restaurant was owned by DICK FITZ­GERALD. At that time. Dick ^vas planning to sell the restaurant and get into the real estate development field in Aspen. 
JIM ROSENHEIMER and his wife Were also in Aspen at the time Bob was there. Jim is president of the bank in Fredonia. Wis. More re­cently. Bob got together \%-ith JOHN GSCHWIND wiio, with his wife and children, resides in Appleton, Wis. John ^^•as recently promoted to an executive position wt h an Appleton manu­facturing company. -At last report HARRY LOCK­WOOD was working as an advisor for a Lajolla, Calif, bank and JOHN O'CO.XNOR was operating the ^lanchcstcr (NH) Explosives Co. 
MORE =56 NEWS 

TOM KERSCHISNIK spent a spring weekend with the JOHN M.\NIO.Vs in LaGrange Park, 
III. en route home (Rock Springs, Wy.) from a business trip with International Harvt-stcr Co, in Dayton and Toledo, Ohio. It was Tom's first venture east of the Rockies since he and Mary Jo tied the knot in the Log Cliapel on June 7, 1956. Tom is prospering well as the leading citizen and businessman in his home to\\'n; his family enterprise includes the Chr>'slcr automobile line dealership as well as International Trucks and \-aried real estate activities. 
Tliey arc building a new home from which he is able to continue his Cub Scout and Little League activities. His brother DON is apparently successful in the aeronautics industry in Los Angeles—although the nature of his work is so secretive Tom is really not sure. 
During his visit to the Afidwest we showed the new Notre Dame (.\ihlctic and Convocation Center, and the Librar>' and its thirteenth-floor miniskirt inhabitants) to Tom and enjoyed a luncheon visit with class vice-pres. JIM ifASSEY, Jim is spending the summer on some more re­search projects and reported tliat JERRY MAS­SEY has been made a full professor in tlic philosophy dcpt. at Michigan State. 
The Class of *56—Chicago area division—met on July 10 at the Showboat Saris in Chicago. I hope that those who were not in attendance have heard sufficient reports to regret not being there. 
—John Mantojt 

1957 
GEORGE W. GROBLE 
111 ^VEST WASHINGTON ST. CHICAGO, ILL. 60602 

I must open this column witli another cry for help — omr Class informants arc not supplying the news we need to keep the column going — HELP! 
First to be heaitl from is JOHN WOULFE from South Holland. John advises that BILL GERARD*s license plate is a little late as John has had ND1937 since 1964. 
The following '57 grads were at the Chicago 

U.N.D. nite in April: -ART JOHNSON MD is completing his fellowship at Northwestern in gas-
Rev, Paschal BatUe OSB '37 
BENGAL BOUTS LEAD TO MARRIAGE COUNSELING CAREER 
A 
MAN of many talents is Rev. Paschal Baute OSB. {"It rhymes," he says, "with rascal, howdy.") He left Notre Dame in 1957 with a cum laude degree, trailing a sparkling string of honors and achievements. Besides distinguish­ing himself in his studies he was able to find time to serve with Blue Circle, to fight his way to Bengal Bouts champion, to be a top Campus wrestler and a member of the swimming and gym­nastics teams as well as acting as cadet colonel in the Air Force ROTC. 
After graduation he didn't slow down at all, studying at Catholic U. and St. Louis U. before picking up a master's degree in psychology at Loyola in 1965. In the midst of everything else, he also was ordained a Benedictine priest. 
Now perhaps it is possible to say that Father Paschal's pace is slacking a bit. He is putting in only 75-80 hours a week as pastoral psychologist on the staff of the Comprehensive Care Center in Lexington, Ky. The Center is the core agency providing mental health and mental retardation services to a 14­county area in central Kentucky. It was set up under the John F. Kennedy Mental Health Act and, being the first organized and the farthest advanced, is serving as a model for other regions. 
Father Paschal's area of specialization at the Center is marriage and family life. Within this field he has a fantastic number of duties. A few he mentions: "I am consultant to several sex educa­tion programs under way in the local schools. I conduct groups for couples with marital conflict and offer help also on a preventive level, • as well as being a member of the Lexington Family Life Education Committee and participating in panel presentations to PTA heads." 
His labors are not limited to the laity. He comments on his work with the clergy and religious ". . . mostly consultation and referral, as well as several long presentations in current research in marriage and marital satis­faction." 
To the community at large he gives presentations on mental health of 

trology and will shortly begin private practice ia 
San Diego, specializing in internal medicine. RON LORENZINI MD is practidng in DoH-nci3 Grove, 111. in OB and associated with the Hinsdale Hosp. Atty. BILL MADDUX is still known as Judd for the Defense in the Chicago courts. PATRICK SHEERIN, American Bank Note's 
top sales rep. appeared and kept the party going. 
Pat advises that he is still a very eligible bachelor. 
Mr. Sports Fan is now organizing a Midwest 
pilgrimage to So Cal this fall. STU RICHARD­
SON made his first appearance and we are hoping 
to get him back again. Stu is heading up many 
an audit for the firm of Haskin & Sells in Chi, 
children, on religion and on sex educa­tion. 
In 1965 Father Paschal earned a certificate in marriage counseling from the department of psychiatry of the U. of Pennsylvania's School of Medicine and then with an added grant he stretched into special areas of anthro­pology, sociology and social work. He inten'iewed 150 Catholic couples in CFM groups in Pennsylvania and Kentucky to complete his doctoral study, "Intimacy in the conjugal rela­tionship: a descriptive analysis of the felt experience." His doctorate was awarded in Januar)-. 
What is coming up for Father Paschal? As of March 15 he has assumed two new responsibilities at the Center, that of acting coordinator of the alcohol program and also coordina­tor of community education and con­sultation. These duties will, no doubt, fill his time for the foreseeable future with perhaps only a moment or two to cam another degree, or take on a new facet of the Center's work. Nothing more, .\fter all, Father Paschal Baute is a busy man. 
<':'•:-' 5 "•"' 
Another bachelor, BOB COYNE, representing the stock brokers' interests, graced the scene. Bob has uprooted himself from Joliet and maintains his bachelor quarters in the Old Town area. 
We smuggled JACK O'DROBINAK in as a repFesentative from the Calumet area Alumni. Jack's wife Rita will be happy to know he be­haved himself and promised to go home right after the speeches were over. 
Deposed east coast Vice-Pres. BILL RIGALI returned to his old place and advises he heads up Comfort Systems, Inc., located in Addison, HI. Bill's firm specializes in healing and air condi­tioning. EMMETT "BUDD" MALLOV reported in and is looking in great form. 
Congratulations to DENNY TROESTER for his 
recent promotion by the Aliunnt Assoc, to head 
up the LA office in Calif, as of July. Good luck, 
Denny and we'll certainly miss your help on the 
Campus. 
JIM EGGERS MD is the proud father of a 
new son and daughter, bom in March. The twins 
make four for the Eggers. Jim is coming into 
the Chicago area in July as asst. prof in Ob-
Gyn at the Stritch school of medicine. Jim has 
just completed a year at Duke as an NIH fellovT. 
Welcome to Chicagoland} Jim. 
From Alexandria, Va-, Mrs. JOE BLAZINA 
writes that Joe is now Lt. Com in the US Navy 
and stationed at supply hdqrs. in DC. Joe met 
Carolyn when both were in the Navy. She is a 
former Lt. nunc. Both spent time in the East 
in Vietnam. Welcome Iiomc folks. 
Word from JAKE KIEFER has been received 
from Cincinnati. Jake and family, five children, 
recently moved from Pittsburgh. He is branch 
mgr. for Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp. Tlianks 
for the note, Jake. 
BOB BOGG, secretary of the Notre Dame Club 
of Detroit reports that the Class of '57 has over­
whelmed the Club. Board of directors has JOHN 
MURRAY and BOB RONEY; DAN KELLY is 
the new pres. succeeding LOU BOSCO; MIKE 
1958 
ARTHUR L. ROULE, JR. 
102 "r* ST. 
LAPORTE, IND. 46350 

REUNION REGISTRANTS: G. William Aitkcn. Donald Albers, Martin Allen, John Armstrong, 
C. Stephen Barrett, Dan Bergen, John W. Birk, Frank Biscliof, Joe Bisignano, Fred Booth, Lou Bosco, William Bourne, Dick Breitcnstcin, C. Joseph Bride, Frank Briody, Edward Brodcrick, Jerome J. Burke, Jerome T. Burke, Robert Byrnes. William Cahill Jr., Michael CantwcU, Michael Carr, Bill Chcsson, J. Ed Clair, VIck CIcsi, Phil Conway, Bernard K. Cooper, Gerry Curr^% Robert Gushing, Ed Day, Daniel DcBrossc, Hank DcCaluwc, John Dinardo, Pat Dohcrty, John Donahue, Walter Donnelly Jr., William Dottcrweich, James Driscoll, Paul Dubasak, John Dunn, Joseph Du-yer, Robert Dw>*cr, Jack Eaton, Jim Englchart, Thomas Erbs, Jerry FarreU, George Fccley, Micliacl Fccncy, Michael Fitzpatrick, Philip Fitzpatrick, Michael Fogcrty, Robert Fors­berg, Frank Fox, Dr. John A. Franks, Bill Geary, GeraJd Genovcse, Bill Gindcr, Jack Glavin, Michael L. Gleason, Micliael N. Gleason, Thomas 
1959 
JOSEPH P. MULLIGAN 
ADMISSIONS OFFICE 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46356 

The Class is deeply grieved to receive the news of the death of JOHN S. RIZNER (BSChemE; died June 7). Fr. Joseph Fey, the University chaplain offered a \fass for John here on campus on Sunday, June 23. John*s wife lives at 540 Echo La., Palatine, III. 60067. Our sympathy is also extended to LEN TROTTA (I7I80 Afadison Avenue, Southficid, Michigan) on the occasion of the death of his father. 
BILL McFARLAND has been elected vicc-prcs. of OgiKy and Mather, Inc. Anne and DAN CROSSEN became parents for the first time Jan. 18 (a boy, Christopher Trahcy Crosscn). JOHN McFADDEN was the godfather. John is living in Cleveland and is with Gen. Amer. Trans. Corp. (G.ATX). Dan and Anne arc living in Bethlehem, Pa. (721 Chestnut St.) where Dan heads up the sale of Ferromangancse for Betldehem Steel. 
TONY MEROLA is now living at 660 Cabot Road, Rochester, NY, Avhere he is a member of the faculty of Cardinal Mooney HS. ERNIE WOOD, married and the father of two boys, b finishing his Ob-Gyn residency in the Navy at Balboa Hosp., San Diego. Come September, he'll be transferred to Cherry Point, NC as a staff member in Ob. 
After marrying the former Catherine M. Leech (May 14, 1966), a '64 Col. of New Rochelle grad, BERNIE FLIGER moved to Detroit from Wash­ington (wth wife, of course!) Ernie works as the Midwest regional training dir. for the Institute of Scrap Iron and Steel, Inc. He will soon be moWng back to their headquarters in Washington, DC. Ernie would like to know the whereabouts of TOM HALLIGAN (and so would we!) The Fligers met ANDY SULLIVAN in Detroit, and 
HAGERT Y is second vice-pres. Bob Roncy was general chairman of a recent successful Club seminar and John Murray and WALT FISHER were co-chairmen for the SUMHA dinner beld. Detroit promises a good turnout for the October 19 reunion* 
DICK REUSCHER and wife report the birth of number six, a son, in May. Saint Mary's, Fa. has to order a new highway population sgn. 
KEN BORKOVEC MD is practicing urologr m Berwyn, 111., and advises TED LESCHER MD has set up his practice on Michigan Ave. in Chicago. 
RICK SMITH is commuting between Chicago and Miami regularly representing some booze vending machine interest which Ken claims fits into our Class traditions. 
ED CHOTT is moving his dental instrument factory to Lyons, III. DICK LEWIS reports an error in our latest Class directory, his home and law ofHcc are in FaycttsviUe, NC and not in Maryland. Dick reports he is on the main auto route from the New England states to Florida and wants the travelers to stop in and say hcUo. 
Kfajor JIM SWEENEY received a Bronze Star medal vnth Combat ''V" for meritorious scr\'icc in Vietnam, also he was awarded a spe­cial Vietnamese decoration. JIM FLUHR vftis 
Gozdccki, Joe Grace, Urban Gradel, .Richard Hank, Edward Hardig, Timothy Harrigan, Joseph 
R. Ilcimoski, Hubert Hickcy, John Higgins, John Hirschfcid, William Hohmann, Fred Holzl, Edmund Hourigan, Patrick Hughes, Bruce Huot, Larry Irsik, William Isbcll, John Jachman, Daniel Jenkins, William Johnson, William Jones, V. Bruce Junius, Dr. Daniel Ka\-anaugh, Francis Kenny, John Keyes, J. Wally Kisling, Patrick Kittredgc, Charlie Kltz, John Klemmer, Louis Konowal, Frank Kuchta, Richard Kwak, Jack Land, William Landon, Martin Letscher, Michael 
R. Leydcn, Bob Loeffler, John McCarthy OP, Patrick McCullough, John McFadden, Bob Mc­Govern, Daniel Mclncrney, Jim McLaughlin, John McMahon, James McNabb, James J. Mc­Namara, David McShane, Harry KfcSteen, Dr. John MacDonald, John Afaddcn, Bruce Male^ Joseph &farino, Robert Marr, James Marstor, Thomas Martin, A. G. Mason, Robert Massman, Joe Mawby, Thomas Mazur, Bob Aiillman, Robert Missel, George Mitchell, Tom Moore, Frank Moran, John ^foreland. Jack Mulvihill, Marty Munster, Lawrence ^furphy, Lester Murphy, Bernard Nierle, Thomas W. O'Brien, William 
Andy promptly moved to Racine, Wis, (2200 
Washington Ave., Apt. 206) as marketing re­
search mgr. for S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc. Before 
he left, Andy did say he's still single and still 
looking. 
JIM G.-UUUTY has ahrady made arrange­ments for our Reunion next summer. He espe­cially u^nts to see JOHN MURRAY because he can't quite believe **honest" John as a priest. Since his airplane crash (4-19J57), Jim has re­covered and has returned to work at the San Jose main office of Citizens Nat'l Bank as a commercial lending officer, specializing in profes­sional loans. Jim has two sons and is living at 123 Anne Way, Los Gatos, CaliL (95030). 
Jim saw JIM GILCHRIST and PAUL D.AUGHERTY in New York a few months back, and reports that Jim looks great, is teaching and coaching at Somers High in Somers, NY. No report furnished to us about F^ul. Finally, Jim recently visited PAUL CHESTNUT who lives in Los Gatos, and is almost finished with his PhD in mathematics. 
Capt. ANTHONY J. INDENCE JR is stifl in the Air Force and is stationed at Travis AFB, Calif. He i«is recently married to the former Helen Corcoran of Gallup, NM. Tony has his law degree from St. John's U., Brooklyn, NY. GERALD J. BECH.AMPS MD (1533 10th St., SE, Rochester, Minn. 55901) sends the Class the Afayo Clinic report. JACK FOX, wife Marie, and sons Michael (4) and Tommy (2), arc in Jack's last year of clinical pathology and he has probably entered the US Army by the time you read this. 
NORM ODYNIEG, wife Mary, daughters U s {31/2) and Karen (2/2) has finished his last year of surgical residency and has entered the Army. . Norm had been the chief resident associate. "DUKE" COOK, wife Marie with their daughter zccentlr.pnMcd to Major m Ae Air Foice. B» completed lui lOOlh wano* is am F-4 umaft commaader in the Vietnam area. On behalC ol the Claii, I would like to c4Misratalate aad thaak both these fine men lor their acnrioe •» , oar country and the >acrificci they have ande for aB 
of OS. 

DICK EGAN ivas receatir appointed m ae­
counting officer for the Harrii Traic ami SavsaC* 
Bank of Chicago. JOHN BEGGAN hm joncd 
the Qucago law firm oi <^udncr, GmtM» 
Douglas, Chilgren & Ward as a tax attoraer. H e 
was with the Justice dept. in DC. 
In May, Jack O'Drobinak and I went om a 
fishing trip into the Ozaiks area aad I adt alt 
who see Jack to inquire as to ndio is the Chi»p> 
Be honest. Jack. 
Our sympathy and pxaycxs to SAY ANDRE­
JASICK for the April death of hn fiither, Fiaah. 
Word rccttved is that PAUL HCMtNUNG fam 
recently ^gncd an agreement «nth WBBB^ « 
Chicago TV station, to be one of their ^octs 
broadcastezs. We're looking forward to wtaag 
Full on k)cal TV and wish him the best ia.his 
new venture. 
Remember the fall reunion, immcdiatdr Jbl­
lonring the Illinois game. It will be held in the 
courtyard between the sculpture stucfio and 
O'Shaughncssy HaU. ^a y for good weather. 
0*Bryan, Tom O'Donnell, James O'Neill, Thomas O'Regan, Joseph Pellegrino, William Ketmsiak, James Pink, Hugh Plunkett, Robert Porst, Allan Fraught, Richard O'Donnell, Tom Orange, James Rascfaer, Charles Rath, Blasdel Reardon, J. Clark Reardon, Jack Revord, Joe Rich, John Ulcy, Dr. Peter Roberson, Arthur Roule Jr., Joseph Ryan, Thomas Sabo, Gene Salem, Duanc Salkeld, Dr. Bill Scanlon, Robert Schwenkcr, Joseph Scotkovsky, Wm. Jay Sennott, Robert Shannon, Bill Sheehan, John Shechy, William J. Sherman, Richard Sinnott, Jerry Slater, Bob Slota, James Smith, James J. Smith, Walter Smithe, Robert Spahn, Robert Stratton, John Sullivan, Timothy-Sullivan, Nc ^ Sweeney, Dick Sweetnun, Bob Taylor, Frank Tegethoff, John Tiberi, Roger C. Tongas, John J. Tully, Stan Tyler, Mike Under* wood. Dale Vanden Berg, James Voit, Bob Vukojcvich, James Waldron, Jim Walsh, John Walsh, Robert £ . Waters, Stanley Wegrzynowicz, Patrick Whelan, Robert WilUamson, Fanl Wilson, DaWd WoU, Thomas R. Wolohan, Walter Zakrzewski, George Zink. 
A complete Reunion rundown appears on pa^cs 
28 and 29. 
and son, are in their second year of internal 
medicine residency after finishing a tour courtesy 
of the Army. 
DAVE CULLIGAN, wife Betty, daughter and son, are in Dave's tidid TC^UT of general suigeiy after a tour in the Air Force. Jeiry himsdf is in the third year of gen. suigery. The Be-champs arc parents of two daughters, Therex (2^) and Suzanne (1). In adifition to the above news, Jerry told us that BOB GIARRANTO and family are in San Diego where Bob is taking an Ob^yyn residency after his Navy duty, and finally BOB KAERCHER, wife and two daughters, are stationed at Fort Ord, Calif., where Bob answtas to the title. Major Kaercher! Many thanks to Jerry for these items. 
1960 
THOMAS J. O'CONNEIX 
3350 EVEKEIT KD. 
LAKE FOKEST. ILL. eUMS 

IfMA I AUf JOHN A. DI NAROO 
IVO U U%«V fei HDiHAN AVENIX EVANSTON, UJJNOIS OBOe 
JIM KANE writd from NY tliat he has ntiKd to private practice foDowing the 196S legishthc leappoitioiimcnt after sennng in the sate k^sbf ture for one tenn. Last year he served as counsel to Judge Dcsmand at the NY constita­tiona] convention. Jim is maxricd and has a two-Tcar-oId daughter Elizahcth Lea. He at* tended the wedding of TERRY HOGAN in Rochester, May 18. Seeing is believing, lo he says. 
Marr Jane and HUGH McGUIRE annoonced the arrival of Sean Hugh, their first child, on Mar 25. 
The 10.Tear Reunion of the imdeigiad Class of *58 in June broi^ht some of ns in the conrinna­tion law group together, including JOHN SUL­
LIVAN, LES MURPHY, GENE SALEM, TOM 
ERBS and JOE MARINO. 
BOB HOUSE and Donna Lee Snedeker were 

married in Babylon, NY in May. 
Has anyone heard from GORDON HO, DON 

GARRITY, PAUL TITUS, BILL BORROR, 
J.ACK D'ARCY, AL KAELIN, or BOB 
MANNING? 
1961 
WILLIAM HENNEGHAN 30556 SCRIVO DR. 
WARREN. MICH. 48092 

What a great surprise when CLYDE fflOH-TOWER was in town in May and spent the weekend with us. Clj-de is living in Atlanta with his wife Kathy and two daughters. I received a letter from JOHN OSIPOWICZ and he has been teaching at Edgewood HS in Madison, Wis. for the last five years. He Is the baseball coach there with two state Catholic championships under his belt. John and his wife Adeic have three daugh­ters. He is also working on his master's in ad­ministration at the U. of Wis. 
JERRY HUGHES spent about four and a haU years in the Nav>* after graduation and while in he met his wife Lorna Popp. They have two daughters. Jerry went into the television industry after getting out of the Navy and Is now assistant producer on The Family Game. 
After receiving a MS in EE at ND . PERCY PIERRE went to Baltimore, Md. to receive his PhD in EE at Johns Hopkins. In August 1965 Percy married the former 0!ga Markharo of Chi. and is now working on a postdoctoral year at the U. of Michigan in the information and Control program of the college of cngincer­inc. 
ED FARRELL «Tote and informed me he was in the Army as finance officer at Fort Polk, La. Before Ed went into the Army he received his BA at the U. of Maine in 1S62. He married the former Marv«ne Brown of Chi. and they have a daughter Elizabeth Ann. TOM RICKS, after going to Aforcau Seminary* for four years and receiv­ing his B.A in Philosophy at ND, decided to leave the religious Hfe and entered the Peace Corps in 1964- and was sent to Iran for two years. Tom returned to Indiana U. in 1966 and received his xnaster*s in Near Eastern Studies. Last year Tom and his wife Janice were married in Newark, NJ. 
IK)N VECKERELLI and TOM L.ACKIN are both working for Eastman Dillon. Union Securi­ties and Co. in NY. Tom deals uith pension funds and Don is in sales. ARM.-\ND ZILIOLI, after graduation, worked as a design engineer for Pratt and Whitney Aircraft in Connecticut. Since then he has been in medical school at the U. of 
Miami (Fla.) and graduated tMs Jime. He hopes 
to intern in California and was married in March 
lo Albon Wood, an Australian occupational 
therapist. 
BILL BRODLNCK dropped a note and he is 
a financial analyst in the product development 
controller's office of Ford Motor Co. Bill and his 
wife Kathleen had their first child, a girl, around 
the first of the year. JIM *'CHARLIE" CUNEO 
and his wife Jana are living in Sacramento, 
Calif, where Jim is working for the California 
state dept. of employment as an attorney. 
GERRY McGRATH, after serving two years in 
the Army and receiving his MBA from Harvard* 
is now an investment banker with Blyth and Co. 
DAVE WILLIAMS and his wife Karen are living 
In Chicago where Dave is with the Continental 
III. Bank as a securities analyst. They had their first child Kristin in 1967. 
CHAS. RIECK is living in Cambridge, Mass. and 
finishing his doctorate in solid state physics at 
MIT. He was married last November and did 
transistor research last summer for the Zenith 
Corp. While a captain in the dental corps at 
Fort Devcns (Mass.) Joan and VICTOR ROSA­
MILIA had their first son Steven. Victor is now 
in a private dental practice in Caldwell, NJ. 
TERRY MARTIN, after receiving his hxvr degree from U. of Virginia, spent two years in the .Army in France as a captain. After getting out of the Army in 1967 he became asst. city attorney in Newport News, Va. Terry is »ngle and living at home. 
JIM MURPHY ^\-as a lieutenant in the Marines from 1962-65, and now b a captain in the Alarine Corps Rcsen'e. Jim is now an ac­count executive with Winslow Cohec and Stetson since 1965 in Baltimore. Jim is married to the former Anitajean Galantucci of West Orange, NJ. 
After graduating in 1963, MIKE IkfAHANEY, out of school with a broken neck, is living in Malibu, Calif. Mike spent the past year in Hawaii and completed a year in graduate school at UCLA. He is in the music btmness, state politics and raising and breeding German shepherd dogs—oh yes, girls, too! Must be a busy feUow, Mike! BOB McCUTCHAN %vas married last September to Sheila Curtin in Brooklyn. Bob is working for American Airlines as an internal auditor. 
BOB LORENZ, working in LaPaz, Bolivia for the past four years, has been transferred to Lima, Peru. Bob and hb wife Ann spent two months in the States last year. TONY CHESSICK and his wife Phyllis reside in Arlington. Va. Tony received his KtA in ph>-sics from Cath. U. in June, 1967 after leaving the Na\-y in 1966­ANGE PLANES and Clare had their first child, a boy, last Sept. Angc says his son Mike should be ready for ND*s fine around 1987. 
BILL BENDER is a radiologist at the Clark Air Base in the Philippines and enjoying life there. TOM GIBBONS and his wife Joan live in Livonia, Klich. where Tom is with Ford. They have two sons, Thomas and Chris. Tom also told me that STAN FEDEWA has moved from Lansing to Los Angeles to get his PhD in communications. Well, that about docs it for now. Trying to meet these deadlines is something else, just ask my wife who gets stuck typing them up at the last minute. Have a safe summer and I hope to see a lot of you guys at ND this fall. 
10A 1l^«> l  I AU f lA W  JOHN N . MOREL.AND  5iii/^ E. M.« N ST.  
OTTUMWA.  IOWA  52501  

The response to the insert in the spring issue of the ALUMNUS was not as great as I had hoped. However, I did hear from TOP ^ BRUNO, who reports that he now has two children, was ap­pointed to the town council in Redbank, NJ, and is prcs. of the Monmouth County Mental Health Assoc. 
I saw a number of our classmates at the '58 Class Reunion in June in South Bend, including ROULE, DUNN, HIRSCHFELD and HARDIG. I also saw ROSIE SCHIERL who was attending her tcn->xar St. Mary^s Reunion, and we decided it would be fun, if, in June of 1971, our Law Class had a ten-year Reunion at the same time as the regular alumni Reunion was held, which is the weekend after graduation. If there is suf­ficient response, we will get to wt»rk on making the arrangements through the Alumni office. 
The Alumni office reports that DICK BESKE's address is now PO Box 324, Belleville, III. 62222. As you no doubt know, there is a get-togethrr in the lounge after each of the football games, and I hope to sec some of you there in the fall. 
 JAMES KRAU5ER 8301 GARFIELD STREET arTHESDA, KfARYLAND 20034 

1962 H. 
Many, many yellow cards this time so I will devote thb column exclusively to those. 
Lt. JIM HIGGINS writes from Da Nang where he is stationed as an attorney for the Navy. Jim will be back in Washington next January. He sent along a clipping from the Stars and Stripes all about Dr. (Lt.) SEAN FITZGER.\LD who has volunteered his services at the Hoa KhanU children's hosp. near Da Nang. Sean is in the prcxress of treating thousands of Vietnamese chil-
Norman Odyniee '59 
NOT-SO-NORMAL PROGRESSION: PASSING PIGSKINS TO SKILLFUL SCALPEUNG 
IT'S one long pass from scrimmages to ' surgery, but Norman Odyniee '59 has successfully completed it. After a starring career as a Notre Dame half­back, he chose medical school rather than accepting a pro ball offer. Father Tom Brennan says that was "because he learned to think while he was here, too." 
After graduation from med school, he went to the Mayo Clinic in July, 1964 to begin his training in general surgery. He says he chose Mayo's for its high caliber of clinical surgery "and its real opportunity for a learning ex­perience because of the great patient population which visits the clinic yearly." 
It's tough to get information from doctors sometimes and Dr. Odyniee would only report modestly that "the daily activities of a surgeon don't make good reading." But after some urging. 

he goes on to tell that the residents make daily rounds of patients and then operate every other day. 
But Dr. Odyniee bad additional surgical responsibilities after being chosen chief resident in general surgery a year ago. His "other days" became devoted to emergency operations. The chief resident is chosen from the foiurth­year senior residents and is a coveted position because of the opportunity it affords a young surgeon for independent operating. 
"The Mayo Clinic is a unique insti­tution," Dr. Odyniee relates, "in that it straddles quite nicely the best of both medical worlds, namely clinical practice and research. Efforts are directed pro­portionately into both endeavors and the results fortunately pay off in the best possible patient care." 
Dr. Odyniec's residency ended in July and Uncle Sam whisked him off with the Army to Korea for a year. Then it's Destination Unknown for the second year of service and next there'll be a Dr. Odyniee somewhere who is a resident in thoracic and cardio­vascular surgery. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 

dren in addition to his regular duties. It's quite 
an article and I wish I could share it with all 
of you. 
Also received another newspaper article sent by 

BOB GALOABINI sent to him by JOE BROCCX3 
and LARRY SOLETTI. I'll quote the dipping 
verbatim from Herb Cocn's column in the San 
Francisco ChronicU. "MIKE HARTNETT, Hotel 
St. Francis' good-looking young sales manager, 
made his most successful pitch this week. Had 
dates three nights running with Miss Universe 
(maiden name Sylvia Hitchcock). If I were a 
big-time columnist I would have to say they 
ignited, but actually, it was more like a smog 
alert." No comment! 
BOB BARTHOLOMEW writes that he has 

accepted a position as asst. prof, in the art dept. 
at Northern Illinois U. beginning fall, 1968. Bob, 
wife Rhoda and son Pat will reside in Sycamore, 
III. DAN 2AVADA is a partner in a land planning and landscape architecture office in Utica, Afich., residing there with wife Sue and son. Dean. After receiving his master's degree from ND in 196* JULIO VALERA has now a PhD in civil cn^ncering from U. of California, Berkeley. Julio is presently working at Cal., studying the effects of earthquakes on earth structures. 
BOB NORMANT is working for GE's nuclear energy div. in San Jose, Calif, and studying for an MS in mechanical engineering at Santa Clara. PAT MORAN is presently serving a Southeast Asia combat tour with the USAF as a navigator-bombardier in the back scat of a F-4D. TED TESKE and netv family are at Dugw^y proving ground in the Great Salt Lake desert where he 
 P. DICELLO 
218 PALMER HILL RD. OLD GREENWICH, CONN. 06870 

1963 
FRANK 
REUNION REGISTRANTS: W. David Ames, ClifTord Angers, Charles Atcn, Joseph Balolc, Gerry Brinker, James Bemis, Larry Beaupre, Tom Bishop, Parle Blake, Jerry Boland, Jim Boland, Ray Bonanno, Brian Boulac, William Bowling, John Boylan, J. Joseph Brann, John C. Bruno, David Bubb, Robert Buckley, Robert J. Burke, Myron Busby, Robert Callahan, Regis Campficld, James W. Carney, John E. Cash, Timothy Condon, Michael Connor, Robert Dahlkc, James Danehy, Ronald D'Angclo, John Dclmore, George De­mctrio, Terry Desmond, David Dcvinc, Frank Diccllo, James Dixon, Charles K. Driscoll, James Duncan, Edward Dwyer, Jerry Eiscnman, Terry Elberson, Thomas Fabish, Ron Faklar, Harry Fath, Edward Fleming, Thomas A. Floyd, Anthony 
 STEPHENS 
1100 CLOVE RD., NO. 5-C 
STATEN ISLAND, NY 10301 

1964 CLAY 
It is \%*ith deep regret that I inform fellow class­mates of the death of GEORGE J. MURPHY. He was killed in a plane crash in Cincinnati Nov. 20, 1967. Following graduation George entered the Navy and at the time of his death ^^'as a Lt. (jg) serving on the USS Vommer, His wife vna also aboard the same plane and fortunately escaped serious injury. However, she was six months pregnant and the child was lost. Mrs. Murphy is presently at home mth her parents in Dallas (4411 Mendenhall Dr.) A Mass has been said on Campus in remembrance. 
JIM McGRATH is working for the FBI in Bnhimore after completing law school. JOHN RURACK graduated from West Virginia U. school of medicine and will begin his internship in July at Mount Carmel Hosp. in Columbus, Ohio. John is married to the fonner Kathleen Gorman. Best man in his wedding was JON JAMES who is at N D working on his PhD in English after receiving a MA from UCLA. John also hears from DICK GALIHER who is at Catholic U law school; ERNIE SCHUKRAFT who is in his fourth year at Wayne State medical school; and BOB GRIFFITH who is in the Peace Corps in Tanzania. 
JOHN V. LASON is employed as a field elec­trical engineer for General ^ectric Co. in Newport News. Va. 
JOHN NARMONT received a J.D. degree from the college of law, U. of Illinois. He was ad­mitted to the HI. state bar in the fall of 1967 and now Is practicing with Giffin, Winning, Lindner, Newkirk and Cohen at the First Na­tional Bank Building, Springfield, 111. His wife Barbara is teaching gifted children in a Spnng­field elementary school. 
JOHN SCULLY and lus wife are Uving ia 

ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 
is a medical instructor. Ted hopes to 
residency in radiology. 
JOE CULLIGAN sends a report from St. Fnil 
where he works for UNIVAC. Joe writes that he 
sees JOHN TRACY, FRANK SCHUCK and 
**NORTHWOODS GOLDIE" c^ and on. He 
also plans a 6-year reunion with "WILD WHIRL" 
HURLEY. TOM FARLEY is a corporate com­
mercial sales mgr. for the Standard Oil Co. (CMiio) 
and was granted a MBA from the U. of Aknm 
this June. 
GEORGE MURPHY is at the U. of Washins­
ton taking an intennve Japanese language pio­
gram as part of his work towards a PhD in 
Japanese drama and theater. During the past 
year his work has been supported by an NDEA 
Title VI fellowship. George has also recoved a 
National Defense fellowship to Stanford this sum­
mer and to Washington for the 1968-69 academic 
year. 
MIKE JOYCE is in San Francisco wooing for 
Standard Oil of Calif, as an operating asristant. 
Mike said not to confuse htm with the other MIKE 
JOYCE from Toledo. JACK GREEN is living in 
DuBois, Pa. where he is a petroleum distrilnitcn'. 
Jack spent two years in the Philipinnes with the 
Peace Corps and was assigned to the same island 
as DON YATES. JIM LOWE u in Allen Pack, 
Mich, working for the Great Lakes IKv, of Na­
tional Steel Corp. as combustion and instnmieft* 
tation engineer. 
MIKE BISHKO Hves in NYC and >s working 
for Arthur Young and Co. and attending NYU 
law school. Dr. JACK GEREND is in the Air 
Force and stationed at Wcstoon Air Foiice Base 
C. Friedmann, Bruce Fuggiti, Martin Gauthier, John C. Gaynor, Timothy Glcnnon, Joseph Gold-camp, Thomas Graham, Thomas GrifiBn, Rev. Ronald Guzda CSC, Paul Gund, T. Peter Hard­ing, William Hardigg, Walter Heeney, Robert Hellrung, Angel G. Hermida, John G. Hogan, Tom Hotopp, Dick Huelsmann, James H. Hughes, Kevin Hunt, Richard James, Peter Jason, Dick Juckniess, Bob Kaltenbacher, Edward Kennedy, John Lamberti, Jim Langworthy, Bob Lieb, Wil­liam Liebcr, Carl Ludecki, Larry Luther, James Maendcr, Edward A. Malloy, Mike Mashuda, Allan McCarte, Michael McDonough, Roger McLaughlin, Mike Maher, Martin Meeker, Thomas Michael, Lawrence Morgan, John Motier, John H. Mulhem, Matthew Murphy, John Mur­ray, Jack Myers, Larry Niklas, John Obbagy, John O'Brien, Patrick O'Brien, Steve O'Bryan, Thomas E. O'Connor, Michael O'Donnell, Kevin 
Riverside, HI. John is employed by the Northern 
Trust Co. after spending two years in the Army. 
RICHARD PANTHER has been appointed special agent for the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. He has esUiblished lus new office at 1238 S. Main, Elkhart. He worked the past three years for an investment company in Kansas City and South Bend- Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS ZIRILLE are the parents of a son, Anthony Michael, bom June 24. Graduate degrees earned: LAWRENCE RUSSO, MS, Polytechnic Instimte of Brooklyn; RAYMOND MEYO and PHIUP LATTAVO, juris doctor. Western Reserve U.; WILLIAM BELDEN JR, MBA, Western Reserve; ROBERT TANZOLA JR, MBA. Fairleigh Dickin­son U.; WILLIAM I. MARKWELL JR, juris doctor, U. of Miami; EDWARD CLARK, juris doctor. Ohio State U.; MICHAEL WALUSIS, MFA, Ohio State. 
Army 2nd Lt. ARTHUR DUNN completed an eight-w^ek information officer basic comse at the defense information school. Ft. Benjamin Har­rison, Ind. 
JAMES SECHSER was commisnoned an Army 2nd Lt. upon graduation from the Army OCS at Ft. Knox. Ky. Army Pvt. THOMAS ACHIERER completed a medical specialist course at the Army medical training center. Ft- Sam Houston. Tex. 
Army Capt. THOMAS REILLY was asdped to the Vietnam communications and dcctronics £v . near Long Binh. Vietnam. He is a communica­tions plans officer in the divisions headquarters. 
Army Capt. TERRENCE WOLKERSTORFER received the Bronze Star Medal in Vietnam June 17, Capt. Wolkerstorfer, asst. dvil affairs advisor assigned to Advisory Team 75, advising the Vietnamese Army, earned the award for outstand­ing mcHtonous service in that capacity. 
Army 1st Lt. WILLIAM STAUD^mEIMER received the Bronze Star Medal in Arlington, Va. He earned the award for outstaiuUng meritoxioot in ducopee Falb, Mass. BOKE WCXHIS Is a pubfic rebtSoas mgr. for RKific Ifntnal Life la ­sorance and fives ia Wcstlake IHHit^ Cslif. 
BILL KLEIN is doios miJeacy ia psycUatty at Ohio State Ho^k BOB POWSIE is ia Isnii viDe and employed hf Ford as a senior mrffcsnirtl engineer. Bob abo reports that BILL JIOSTON is abo in Loiiisnile with Krogei's real estate development group. BOB CVLEARY wiB coM­piete his PhD in polymer toadcology al tha U. oC Texas m September. 
1I|^« I AUf PAUL K. KOONIY VS. COURTHOUSE FOLEY SO. NEW YOB 
on:.N.y. 

BOB COX has settled in NY (Tarrytom) mtb Vat and tfadr three duMrcn. Before doios f^ Bob spent several prospenras seasons ia Wash­ington DC with the SEC, where he was cdnef asst. to one of the conunisaoneis. He's now with Baker ft McKenzie at 350 V^A Ave. Maige and myself were guests at the COK'S in late May mad haid a very pleasant time. Ahvays an active athlete. Bob still enjoys tenms and, in fact, is one of the stalwarts in the local Tarry town Tennis Club, ffis ni)|px9 career has been shdvcd, however, for the time being. 
Understand that BILL SCHRIGER is an ast. attorney general and county chairman of the DemocRtic Party in Winnebago, H L and that Ca ^ PAUL B. McNELUS is now slatinnrd in Fort Wayne, Tnrtiana. 
O^eill, Bfidhad CShanghnesiT, Ljle fma, Richard PepUmki, Notb Rascher, Tim Rcardon, Michael Reilly, ijslie Renkey, Bfiaa Rkhaidsoa, Thomas Riley, Donald Rothcrmich, FluUp J. Ryan, Hike Szvitsk^ Gil Schimmoler, Tom Schneider, Richard Schradcr, Gregory' Schwartz, Thomas Schwartzbaner, David Seng-, Brian Shea, James Sherlock, Joe Shiely, John Slafkosky, Art. Smith, John Sonderman, William B. Stone, Stuart F. Strieby, David Swire, E. Tom Thibnan, David P. Thomas, Charles Topping, James M. Turley, Larry Valli, Rev. Frank Wagner CSC, Jack Walker, Michael Walker, John Wabh, Tom Walsh, Nicholas Wah, John Ward, Joe Warner, 
E. James Weber, Francis J. WDIOD, Mike Wurzelbacher, Joe Yochasz. 
lfUL« lAU f JOSEPH R. SULLIVAN iTfM LAW 132S E. CEDAR ST. SOUTH BEND. IND. 4GSI7 
sernce with the 224th Aviation BattaBon dming 
his last asugnment in Vietnam. 
CHARLES HERZOG JR was promoted to Army captain at the Redstone Arsenal, Ala. where he is serving with the US tms»lc uid mmution center and schooL He is a training supervuor ass^ed to headquarters company of the school's student troop command. ' 
EDWIN NEFF JR married Miss April Louise Manford of Soath Bend. She is a fashion modeL He is continuing his graduate study at the Wharton School of Business in Philadelphia. 
Dr. GEORGE MATTINGLY has been named 
a. research chenust in the polymer research lab. of Celanese Coatings Co. in Louisville. RICHARD MURPHY has been named an associate in the Society of Actuaries. He is employed at the home office of Aetna Life & Casualty in Hartford, Conn. 
Harvard awarded LLB degrees to JOHN HAMILTON, JOHN GAINE, JOHN ROGERS. FRANK ISSEL and RICHARD BONNEVHXE got th«r MBA degrees at Harvard at the same commencement^ 
RICHARD STRANGER was honored in August at a qMcial recogmtion ceremony by the maritime administratioD, US Dept. of Commerce. A pro­gram analyst with the maritime adnumstiation's office of progxam planning, he received the sustained siqierior performance award. 
RONALD VOMERO has been hired to £nc t the Greater Erie Anti-Poverty Action Cmn^ttee's project. 
STANLEY SZKLAREK JR and IC a VatAS* Ann Gibtiap wreie married in Sncred Heart Chiirch at N D ^« . 26, 1967. Ther a n makiag their home in Sootli Bend. JAY SOIOIERKAMP lias condnded his toor as an Armr Lt. in Vietnam and is stndyins for bis MBA at Golumlna. 
WAYNE ALLEN b txad coach of Us Ugh scbool alma mater, Salanam, in VHInungton, DcL, and he and his wife Pat arc parents of a giri. TOM BENSOX has graduated from the U. of Denver law sciiool with a JD degree, has passed his bar exam and \nll enter the US Army Reserve for a six-month tour of duty. 
JOHN HAMILTON who graduated from Har\'ard law school in June, 1967 has moved to Los Angeles. John took the California bar exam and is working for tlic California Attorney Gen­eral in the crnminal section. 
Ens. JOHN SALZM.ANN married Miss Karen Colecn O'Hara in San Diego. John and his wife reside in Honolulu where he is stationed with the Na\7. Lt. (jg) KEN STINSON is presently serving his second deplo>Tnent in Vietnam as a company commander with a US Na\-y construction battalion. He is in the Dong Ha area. Ken will return to the United States sometime in July and will marry Joyce Anthony in October. 
JACK McCABE is in Oceanside, Calif, and has finished law school at the U. of San Diego where iic edited the Law Revieiv. 
^OJL.A  tAXAi  THOMAS  F. CONNEELY  
I70 4  IM W  ONE  NORTH  L.\SALLE  ST.  
SUITE  701  
CHia\GO ,  ILL.  60602  

 P. HARNISCH Apt. B 863 E. GRANVILLE RD. COLUMBUS, OHIO 43224 

1965 
JAMES 
JERRY HOULIHAN has received his JD degree from Syracuse law school where he was president of the Student Bar Assoc., member of the law review and order of the Coif. He is now associated with the firm of Harris and Beach in Rochester, NY. Jerry and wife Beverly have two children, Andrea and Jerry Jr. 
NICK SORDI has graduated from Han-ard law school and is working for Sage. Gray, Todd and Sims in NYC. Nick's wife Eileen is ex­pecting in August. Proud parents of their second son, Thomas Michael, are DON KINTNER and wife Linda. Don has just accepted a position as asst. to the controller of St. Clare's Hosp. in Schenectady, NY. 
Lt. JOE YADOUGA is serving as a T-38 
instructor pilot at Laughlin AFB, Tex. and his 
wife &farcia had a baby boy, Jf>c Jr, last &Iarch. 
BILL SHEPARD informs me that BILL FLAT­
TERY was recently presented with a son, John 
Patrick, by wife Joan (Marskcy, SMC *65). 
STEVE CULBERT is in his 4th year at Stanford 
&fed. school and claims to be the victim of the 
first brain transplant with a raisin. 
STEVE WALTHER has graduated from Berkeley law school and BOBBY ARCARRO 'a working in NYC. JOHN KEEGAN plans an August wedding to Susan Ravey of Niles, Ohio. BILL FERRENCE was presented with a second son, James Andrew, by wife Cheryl in a most unusual u'ay. The baby came a bit earlier than anticipated and as a result Bill ended up delivering the baby himself in his ou-n home. Bill is working for United Airlines in Elgin, III. 
LOUIE JEPEWAY and STEVE PRICE have graduated from the U. of Florida college of law. Both had participated on their school's Law Review and plan to practice in Florida. Steve was married in June to Joan Daniel of Detioit and will enter the Judge Advocate General's Corps in February. Louie is keeping up his political interests by working on the campaign this summer. 
Lt. GERALD MARX is stationed as di^ursing officer at the Naval .\ir Station in Pensacola, Fla. and was married in February to Patricia Ann Ruocco of Rochester, NY. He also received an MBA last year from the U. of RfKhestcr. Capt. ED ARMENTO has completed a three-year tour of duty with the Marine Corps and plans to enter the FBI. Ed served IS montlis at the Da Nang air base where he was awarded the Navy coimnenda­tion medal. 
ELMER MARTIN received his JD degree from 
U. of Wisconsin law school in June and is working with a Mexico City bw firm for the summer. In September he plans to begin a year's clerkship with a Justice of the Ne\-ada Supreme Coturt in Carson City. 
TIM TUCIISCHERER also received his JD 
Congrats / 
Eight young men have been ordained priests in the Holy Cross order this spring. They come from a variety of backgrounds and from all over the United States. Seven of them were ordained at Sacred Heart church on Campus; one was ordained in Texas. 
Rev. George A. Rozum CSC was or­dained May 5 in the church of St. Ignatius Martyr, Austin, Texas. He offered his first Mass in his home parish. Holy Family, Mitchell, SD, on May 31. In Texas he has been doing pastoral work among the deaf. 
Rev. Joseph F. DeViegher CSC, a na­tive of Mishawaka, Indiana, graduated from ND in 1952 with a degree in electrical engineering. After working for Bendix and serving in the Army he joined the Holy Cross order. He offered his first Mass June 16. 
Rev. Andrew R. Guljas CSC is a South Bend native. He entered Holy Cross Seminary in 1955. He is a 1962 grad­uate of the University and has studied theology at Holy Cross College, Wash­ington, EC. His first Mass was June 9 at Little Flower church in South Bend. 
Rev. L Peter Logsdon CSC was bom in Cleveland and came to ND in 1958. After transferring to Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn., and pro­nouncing his first vows he returned to 
from Wisconsin law school and was admitted in 
July to the Wisconsin Bar. Jim is now serving with 
the Army. RALPH DOTY received his PhD in 
Educational Administration at the U. of ^lin­
nesota this summer and has accepted an asst. 
professorship in secondary education at the college 
of St. Scholastica in Duluth. Ralph and wife 
Diane have two children. 
Last September JIM HAVERLAND was 
married to Judith Van Meter and is now working 
as a research analyst for Banker's Trust Co. in 
NYC. In addition Jim is taking courses at the 
American Institute of Banking. 
GEORGE BUBOLO is working as power engineer for Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corp. in Kingston, NY. George and wife Candacc have one son Dean. JOE McLAUGHLIN and wife Anne also have a son, Mark. Joe is working for Kfobil Oil in Chicago. 
D.WE C-VNTLON has been promoted to 2nd lieutenant and MIKE SCHMID has accepted a position with IBM in South Bend. Also living in South Bend is CHARLIE WILLS and wife Gloria who now Iiave a daughter. After wiorking for two years as a Uniroy-al research chemist CHUCK EISENSTEIN has settled down in Sidney, Ohio %vhcre he teaches math and science at Emerson elementary school. His wife Debbie gave birth last Alarch to Charles Tliomas 11. 
JIM &L\ROLD and LOUI YU share a bachelor apartment in Chicago. Jim received his MS in civil engineering from ND in June and is working as a foundation engineer with Harza Engineering Co. Loui received his MS in civil engineering at N D in January and is a sanitary- engineer with Grcely and Hansen Co. LEONARD SOBCZAK is working both for his master's in Special Educa­tion at Eastern Mich. U. and full time at a school for retarded children. Lt. RICK DEICHL USMC u now flying the F-4B Phantom and is attached to VMFA-513 at Chase Held, Tex. but is planning to head overseas in November. Also in Texas under­going advanced flight training is Lt. TED FALLER who was recently presented with a baby girl, Christine Lynn, by his wife Betty. 
ALUMNI IN THE NEWS 
ND to complete his college work and was graduated in 1964. He offered his first Mass in Gesu church. University Heights, Ohio, June 15. 
Rev. C. Richard Nowery CSC, from Shreveport, La., attended Notre Dame and graduated in 1960. After service in the Army he returned to Holy Cross Seminary. Besides his studies for the priesthood, he has worked in a mental hospital, taught religion and assisted a Christian Family Movement group. Rev. John Thorpe CSC entered Holy Cross Seminary as a freshman in high school and was graduated cum laudc from Notre Dame in 1964. He has been assigned to teach at Notre Dame College, Dacca, East Pakistan. He celebrated his first Mass in his home parish, St. Cajetan's, Chicago, on June 
16. 

Rev. Thomas Windburg CSC, origi­nally from Grand Haven, Mich., came to Holy Cross Seminary as a high-school freshman and received his degree from Notre Dame in 1964. He offered his first Mass June 16 in St. Mary's church. Spring Lake, Mich. 
Rev. Donald E Wyndra CSC gradu­ated from Notre Dame in 1959 and went to Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn, where he made his first vows. A native Chicagoan, he offered his first Mass in St Juliana's church there. 
WrNDBURG WYNDRA 

10AC I A W JOHN A. HAUTER 
• TO a liMVV 1030 INDIANA AVE. GLENWOOD, ILL. 60425 
1966 
RICHARD ANGELOTTI 
8640 SOUTH 86TH AV£., AFT. 203 JUSTICE. ILL. 60458 

lOAA IAU# FRANK GREGORY 
I TO O LM W 7403 KEYSTONE LANE 
FORESTVILLE, MD. 20028 I am pleased to tell you that the address at the head of this column should change in one of the next two issues. Cookie and I have purchased a new home in Annandalc, Va., and we*ll move in as soon as the builder makes it possible. It looks like we are in Washington for good. Since u-riiing last I have left my job with ilr. Justice Brcnnan and am now in private practice in Wash­ington. The change has been interesting and educational. 
Cookie, the children and I spent our vacation in St. Louis visiting my parents. Cookie and the children spent the better part of the day at the pool with my mother while my dad and I tried to solve the ancient and honorable riddle of golf. We had a better time than my scores would in­dicate. Prior to this Cookie spent two weeks in New York, attending her college reunion and just getting a change of scene. 
STEVE SE.ALL called on business and re­ported that things arc indeed well. He told me that DICK. STEINBRONN will take a position with the Elkhart office of the Dare, Thornburg firm. The firm is about to open a Washington office so we hope to see more of Steve. TOM READY hosted BOB MURPHY and BOB KRAUSE to a round of golf at his home course in Monroe, Mich. Murph presented the Govern­ment's case to the grand jury which retm^ned the indictments in the Detroit riots case. 
ROSS PETERSO-X was at Fort Bclvoir, Va., for a conference on Army transportation prob­lems. He is a lieutenant in the transportation corps. He drove to DC on an afternoon for a siiort visit, a tour of the Court, and a chance to hear oral argument. He is still at Fort Hood, Tex., and was handball champion of the fort (40,000 men). He represented the Army at the Rocky Mountain Rcgionals of the National AAU Handball Championships. 
Ross is teaching accounting at Mary Hardin-Baylor Col. and told me that M-ARTY IDZIK. will teach economics there next term. Marty has extended the necessary time so that he and Pat will be given a tour in Germany. They cavort regularly wth NORM MANDEL. Ross said his brother TOM is now at Wiirzburg in Germany where he will finish out hb tour of duty. Ross received a card postmarked Miami Beach from "FOX** CONWAY who has received walk­ing papers for Victnam-
AL McKENNA called and told me that all is well in Columbus and he has started work as an assist. United States attorney. His duties will give him complete exposure to all the work in the office. He tried his first case four hours after he Av-as officially sworn in. MIKE SULLIVAN, '65L, said that he heard from "RABBIT** DEL FRA \*lio is completing two years of teaching at North­ern Illinois U. and intends to return to Philly. 
PAUL POLKING married Joan Yaeger on June 15 in Carlisle, Pa. BOB MURPHY was best man. Paul and Joan hone>'mooncd in Ber* muda, and are now residing in Oxon Hill, Md. Paul's apartment faces on a popular race course. I received a "yellow card** from BILL SAN-NEMAX's dad. He said Bill was admitted to the New York Bar in Oct., 1966. His present ad­dress is Headquarters Co. — 8th Army CG4), APO San Francisco, CaUf. 96301. 
JOHN H.AUGH sent the belated news that Phyllis "had a baby girl, Bryn Marie (pronounced 'Erin') on Febniary 23. She docs not look at all like me (i.e., she is beautiful] and is a little doll (of course). First girl in the family in over 70 years, so everyone is pretty excited.'* John moved his family into a new home in Portland. He is renting with an option to buy. 
TOM KENNEY has moved into town from the suburbs and now lives at 2 Charles Center, 8 Charles Plaza, Baltimore, Md. 21201. Tom has two weeks of summer duty behind him but he is still awaiting orders to go on six months* active duty. JOHN GOTTLICK informs me that he took a "quickie vacation down to the Playboy Hotel in Ocho Rios, Jamaica.** Oh, the life of the swinging bachelor! JOE DELL.\ MARIA, Na\7 lawyer, is stationed in Philly. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 
Spcakins o{ leaving the country, Pkofessor Blaltey had lunch with me recently (he was in town shepherding the wiretapping bill through Congress) and told me that the law scboc^ has instituted a "second year in London** program. We old men got out too soon. Keep the good word coming. 
 HUGHES 
99 W. 37th ST. 
BAYONNE, NJ . 07002 

1967 
JOHN J. 
10A T I AlAI JAMES C. HEINHOLD 
I TO / l^«VY 801 Oddfellows BMf. South Bend, Ind. 46501 
I must admit that I've been pleasantly sur­prised at the number of our Class who are sending in information — by no means a majority 
— but enough to fill this month*s column^ Still waiting to hear reports from DOM MONTEROS­SO, "KIP* ROE, GERRY SANDWEG, MIKE SENG and TONY KOWALS. 
Roseanne and H. GREGORY NASKY are now 
in Ft. Polk, La. Greg has just finished JAG 
school at Charlottesville, Va. He did manage 
several months of private practice in Warren, 
Va. before being called and looks forward to 
getting back to it. Greg also reports that he, 
JACK WINGERTER, PAT O'CONNOR and 
FRANK VERTERANO had no trouble with the 
Pennsylvania bar. That's another 100% for ND. 
O'Connor's current address is 111 W. Jkfaple 
Ave., Langhome, Pa. 19047. 
JIM MOLLISON, ex-civilian, is in the finance 
corps and is stationed in Ft. Knox, Ky. MIKE 
KL\NZrs new address is 114 East St., Methuen, 
Mass. 01844. JOHN BLASI and LARRY FLEM­
ING are in the naval justice school at New­
port, RI. 
Prof. Bo>-nton told me that on a recent trip to 
Indianapolis to attend a Labor Board hearing, 
the chief hearing officer looked familiar but that 
he could not place the face. It was none other 
than MICHAEL J. FOGARTY doing very weU for 
himself. Gailanne, Mike and their seven-month­
old son live at 28 Brenda Ct., Apt. 9, Green­
field, Ind. 
JACK "SNOOPY** COUCH, at time of publi­cation, will have joined his ship, the USS Taylor^ DD 467, at Pearl Harbor. The Snooper grad­uated from OCS in Newport. While there he ran into FRANK CAREY who apparently was quite peeved because the Na%y wouldn't let him bring his TV to basic training. The Snoop's long-term plans include returning to NY and join­ing an attorney in his home town. 
GARY KAUP married Pat Ward on Aug. 2, in Wilmington, Del. STEVE "JEAN CLAUDE" LAM.\NTIA stood up (on one leg) for Gary and SEAN KEENAN (naturally) made the affair. Sean hasn't missed a party in the past six years. Close on the heels of the Kaups are the BARKLEYs. Bob will be married Aug. 10, in New Orleans. 
Ens. Kcenan, completed his training in Florida and is presently stationed in Washington, DC. Sean seems pleased since he is somewhat cen­trally located and does not have to travel too far to make all the utddings. He did ask that I pass on the fact that his schedule for September is unusually light and would appreciate it if any of our classmates, who are contemplating max^ riage, would schedule it for that month. Actually, it doesn't have to be a wedding, any excuse ^rill do. 
LENNY "THE DUKE" BONFANTI has finished his time with the National Guard and is working for the Mass. Attorney General. MURRAY CAMPBELL has been notified that he has passed the Florida bar. Murray was admitted to practice in Michigan last year. 
Tlie stork report is rather light for this edition, the only return coming from the BOB KONOPAs. Afaryanne gave birth to their second child and second g'rl, in May. 
1968 
LEONARD J. PELLECCHIA 311 MT. PROSPECT AVE. 
NEWARK, NEW JERSEY 07104 

I would like to thank all the mcmbexs of the Class who have sent in information concerning their activities for the next few months. 1 hope the response will continue and make this a veiy successful column. 
JOHN BRODERICK is engaged to Jfiss Janet Barnes (SMC '68) and will continue his studies in business at Washington U., St. Loub. CHRIS MURPHY, former SBP. and JOHN (Sb) SICIUANO win be attending law school at the 
U. of Viigima. JOHN "OBUS" O'BRIEN is es-gaged to Mi s Karen Schcrkenbaeh and will be going to law school at the U. of niinois. 
RICH SCHLAFF win be teachii« at St. AI> phonsus HS and wiU attend law school at Wayne State. PETE WAYNE wiU be at Wayne State school of mefdoe. TIM HAULER wiU be at­tending law school at Case Westeia Kcsecve U. LOU FOURNIER is engaged to ICss Joyce Daley and win work for National Sted in Detroit. 
RICH CARTER win attend Focdham law school next Ian. CARL CASTELLAN has en­listed in the US Naval reserve OCS pngram and win be stationed at Newport, KI. PAT MICHAELS is engaged to Mia Dianne WHtshire and is empkiyed as an accountant irith Haskins and Sells in Fort Wayne, Ind. Abo wooing for Haskins and Sells are PAT CARR who is married to the fonner Miss Barbara HiUman, Fat is em­pkiyed in their Fh3adelphia office, and PAUL DETTOR who is married to the former Miss BreU Nelson. Paul wiU he at 1 WUshire Build­ing, LA. VINCE (SPAGS) SPAGNOLO will attend business school at the U. of Massachusetts. 
JOHN WHITE is working for Arthur Young and Co., Newark, and wffl attend business school at NYU. PHIL RATHWEG win be going to Wharton Business School, U. of Pennsylvania, next faU. BOB HEINEMANN is married to the for­mer Ikliss Frances Viventi and win be working as an underwriter for Phoenix Life Mutual. Bf>b plans to enter the Army Signal Corps on January 23, 1969. 
DICK KELLY will attend law school at the U. of &faine. Dick is our New England contact, so if you are in the area drop him a line. DICK CTJMMINGS is employed as an aecounUnt with Lybrand, Ross Bros, and Montgomery in New York. 
TIM COONEY is married to the former Miss Dona Karlic and wiU attend law school at South Texas. JIM O'ROURKE is engaged to Miss ^mela Spencer and wiU continue his giadualc studies at Temple University. JOHN CRIKEL­AIR has enlisted in the Army O.C.S. program. 
MIKE LAFIN will enter St. Louis school of medicine this fall. DICK GAVIGAN win attend Xavier. TOM WEIFORD is engaged to Miss Sheila Hughes and will enter the U. of Kansas this fall. G. BRUCE PAPESH is engaged to Miss Kfagdalene Wilczewski and win attend business school at Michigan State. 
DAVE DrrTM.AN »riU continue his studies in accountancy at Ohio State. JOE PETRO is em­ployed with Arthur Young and Co. in New York. Joe Farley win attend Maryland U. and is en­gaged to Miss Mary Jeanne Murphy. 
DAN LUXGREN is engaged to Miss Barbara Kolls and wiH be going to law school at the use . TOM SHERIDAN vnll attend law school at St. John's U. WALLY FEHST wUl continue his studies in business at Northwestern. 
GERRY KLEIN JR is engaged to Miss Elaine Smith and is working for the Bureau of Federal Credit Unions in Qeveland. TOM McKENNA is engaged to Miss Mary Ann O'Toole and is teaching at Shawe Memorial HS in Madison, Ind. 
JAY LaMARCHE is married to the former Miss Carol Betts and is on active duty with the US Navy. ED DONOVAN wOl be at Seton HaU U., South Orange, NJ. MIKE GODZIK is on active duty in the US Navy. PAUL WALLACE is working for Alexander Grant and Co. in Chicago. 
MARTIN THOMAS win continue his graduate studies in physics at ND. WIIXIAM K. SCHMIDT is married to the former Miss Claudia Weely and is in the Peace Corps. BILL FOLLETE is married to the former Miss Barbara Cunneen and is in the pilot training program with the US.AF. 
JIM SAUTER is going to graduate school at the U. of Michigan. RICHARD MUNSCH win also be going to the U. of Michigan law school. PETE LaREDDOLA is employed by the NYC board of education. BOB CASEY win attend law school at Tulane. MARK LIES is on active duty in the US Navy. 
MIKE FROST is married to the former Miss Janet Blaschke and plans on graduate school in English at Emory U. HEINRICH RETIZUG is married to the former Miss Barbara Stun and win attend Indiana U. school of medicine. 
DENNIS PISULA is engaged to Miss Barbara Rochford and wiU continue his stucfies in buM­ness at Notre Dame. BOB RANKEL JR u en­gaged to Miss Susan Lauer and wiU be attend­ing New York upstate medical center at Syra­cuse U. 
4? 

OMI Heconl-
CLASS REUNIONS The fall reunion of the Class of 1953 wll be at 11 am in O'Shaughnessy Hall Nov. 9 (the Pittsburgh game). Other fall class re­unions kno\Mi at press time arc listed on page 33. 
MARRIAGES 

MUs ifarsha Prentiss to JOHN ALLE>f ADAMS '36, May 25. Miss Joyce Ann Kaminski to ROBERT PAUL BRAUX '55, July 6. 
Miss ^^an.• Kathleen Rj-an to DR. GORDO.V JA.MES DIREXZO '56, MA'57. PliD'63, July 6­Miss Juanita Helm to ROBERT ER.XST '58, 
MS-59, June 22. Miss Mary Jane Tliompson to JACK DOL.\N '59. June 23. Miss Ann Imclda Moran to RICHARD CHARLES L-ATIMER 'GO, June 15. Miss Donna Lee Sncdcker to ROBERT HOUSE 'COL, in Mav. -Miss Kathleen Ann Russell to JOSEPH V. SI.MERI '61, June 22. Miss Mary Loretta Puchcnski to WILLLAM DE.V.VIS WOLTER '61. Miss Mar}- Mangelsdorf to THOMAS BENSON '64. Aug. 3. Miss Sally Lynn Ruby to JAMES E. HOUGH '6+. Jan. 6. Miss Man- Kathleen Hinsbcrs to CH.\RLES O. VIMMERSTEDT '64, May 18. Miss Ten ^ Rose Lapenla to CHARLES B. SILIO JR. BS'65, MS'67, Mav 25. Miss M.arilvn Myers to JOH.N G. ALLEN '66, MS'68, June 29. Miss Virginia A. Ward (SMC'68) and J. CLARKE BAKER JR. '66, March 9. Miss Linda Weinbrecht and CH.-\RLES P. D.ATZ '66. April 6. Miss Catlileen Condran to JOHN GEIST '66, MS'68, June 4. Miss Patricia Rathbonc to THO^L•\S JOHN­STON '66. June 22. Miss Xlt^inia Carraher to MICHAEL P. MURPin' '66, June 22. iliss Susan Jane Balscr to JAMES ARTHUR ZELL '66, June 29. Miss Donna Marie Fizzano to MIKE DEL ERA 'GGL, Aug. 10. Miss Joan Yacger to PAUL POELKING '6GL, June 15. Miss Donna McManus to LARRY CONJAR '67, June 8. Miss Cathy Ann DcWitt to DENIS R. ANDER­SON '68, June 8. Miss Barbara June StuU to HEINRICH CHRIS­TI.AN REITZUG '68, June 15. Miss Barbara Skrzcszcu-ski to JAMES CEVASCO '68, June 3. Miss Constance Knust to D.WID TARKOWSKI '68, June 1. 
ENGAGEMENTS 

IViss Kaye Marie Sandine to MARK RICHARD­SON '64, MS'66. Miss Claudia Ann Klosterman to JAMES WIL­LI.AM SZYMANSKI '64. Miss Marion Eich to HENRY POLICINSKI AB'65, BS'66. Miss Judith Ann MaxwiiU to WILLIAM J. BERGE.N '67. Miss Mary K. Zieger to THOMAS MICHAEL D'HAEZE '67. Miss Linda Colt to RICHARD KIEKBUSCH '67. Miss Joan Marshall to JAMES G. VERNETTI '67. Miss Karen Scherkenbach to JOHN O'BRIE.N '68. Miss Mary Jeanne Murphy to JOSEPH FAR­LEY '68. Miss Ebinc Smith to GERRY KLEIN JR. '68. Miss Barbara Kolls to DAN LUNGREN '68. Xfiss Mary Ann CTooIe to" THOMAS Mc-KENNA '68. Miss Dianne Wiltshbc to PATRICK MI­CHAELS '68. iliss Pamcti Spenser to JAMES O'ROURKE •68. 
ifiss Magdalene Wilc2c«-ski to G. BRUCE PAPESH '68. Miss Barbara Rochford to DENNIS PISULA '68. Miss Susan Lauer to ROBERT R.\NKEL JR. 
'68. Miss Sheila Hughes to TOM WEIFORD '68. Miss Janet Barnes to JOHN BRODERICK '68. Miss Joyce Daley to LOU FOURNIER '68. 
ADOPTIONS 

Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. MILLER '61, a daughter, Judith Anne, adopted June 12. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD D. DcBOER '53, a daughter, Lisa Eileen, May 14. Dr. and Mrs. EDWARD BUSH, a daughter, Cecilia Marie, July 12. Mr. and Mrs. L.'VRRY MORAN '54, a son, Kevin, January- 1. Mr. and Mrs. DON LANSPA '55, a son, Paul, Feb. 19. Mr. and Mrs. BILL McLAIN '55, a daughter, Bridget .Ann, January. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES L. BYRNE '57, a daughter, Marie Tlicrcsc, May 25. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES EGGERS '57, a son and a daughter, March. Mr. and Mrs. DICK REUSCHER '37, a son, Mav. Mr. and Mrs. HUGH ilcGUIRE '58, a son, June. ilr. and Mrs. FR^\NCIS L. MANZO '58, a son, Matthew Francis, June 12. Mr. and Mrs. DAN CROSSEN '59, a son, Christopher Trahcy, Jan. 18. Capt. and Mrs. D. T. Mc*\LLISTER '60, a daughter. Shannon, May 20. Mr. and .Mrs. HUGH McGUIRE '60L, a son, Sean Hugh, May 23. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT C. HETZLER '61, a daughter, Heidi Ann, May 18. Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP BERTONI '63, a son, Philip Micliacl, June 5. Dr. and Mrs. D.WID Y. GRAHAM '63, a daughter, Susan Kathleen. Jan. 21. Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK MICHELAU '64, a daughter, Ann Monica, May 31. Mr. and Mrs. FR^\NCIS ZIRILLE '64, a son, Anthony Michael, June 24. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES TEDFORD '63, a daugh­ter, Karen Lynn, May 21. Lt. and Mrs. MICHAEL B. MOONEY '66, a son, Mattheu-, April 13. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H.AUGH '66L, a daugh­ter, Bnn Marie, Feb. 23. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT KONOPA '67L, a daughter, ilay. 
DEATHS 

ELMO A. FUNK '11, June 12. He leaves his widow Mildred, 920 W. 8 St., Anderson, Ind. 46016. 
LEO BER.NER '17, May 29. He served in the South Bend area as asst. police chief, cit}- editor of the old South Bend News-Times and as Demo­cratic joint state senator at \-arious timts in his career. 
REV. MICHAEL J. EARLY CSC '17, Feb. 10. ALBERT T. BOHRER '19. Jan. 28. CHARLES J. McCAULEY LLB'19, April 3. CHARLES M. DUNN '21, Oct. 7, 1967. He 
is sur\-ived by bis widow Grace, 13440 Remington, Pacoima, Calif. 
GEORGE C. WITTERIED LLB'21, May 20. He is survived by his widow Frances, 179 £. Lake Shore Dr., Chicago. III. 60611. 
EDMUND B. COMYNS '22, 888 Cambridge Rd., Cleveland Heights, Ohio 44121. 
H. GERARD SUTTER '25. 
DONOVAN J. RAU '28, June 17, Lansing, Mich. He was chief deputy commissioner in the Michigan Dept. of Revenue and was a founder and former president of the Klidwestcm States Assoc, of Tax Administrators. He is survived by his widow, 924 N. Walnut, Lansing, Mich. 48906, and three children. 
Rev. JOHN J. HARRINGTON CSC '29, Jan. 1, 1967. WALTER P. ROSSELIT '30. He died after an illness of several montlis. Rev. A. F. BRUGGER OSB '33, Feb. 28, 1967. 
Most Rev. LORAS T. LANE '32, July 22, Chicago. The bishop of Rockford, 111., he died from heart failure associated with a kidney ail­ment. He headed the 11-county diocese since 1956 and was named by Pope Paul VI this year to the Congregation for Catholic Education, a group of 26 high Cburcli officials charged with the development policy for all Catholic education. He also was a member of the administrative board of the US Catholic Bishops organization. He is survived by his mother, Afrs. Thomas J. Lane of Cascade, Iowa. 
JOHN T. YEISER '33, Dec. 5, 1966. 
DANIEL J. CUNILA '35, July 2. He leaves his wife Doris, 1105 Fifth Ave., Watervliet, NY 12189. He coached Siena College's basketball team to national prominence in the late 1940's and, over a 21-year period there, compiled a record of 247 ^•ictorics to 225 defeats. 
GERALD R. MOLINARI '35, June 30. He leaves his widow, 62 Dietz, Oneonta, NY, and se\"cn citildren. 
WILLIAM RE.NNEK.AMP '33, November 7, 1967. He leaves his wife, 20 Crawford St., ifc-Kces Rocks, Pa. 
JOSEPH P. MANNEBACH '38, July 23, 1967. He leaves his widow at 140 Robsart Rd., Kenil­worth. 111. 
JOSEPH A. MANG.VNO '40. JOHN G. BECK '51. He is survived by his 
widow, 15 Bank St., Red Bank, NJ 07705. WILLL\M D. ALLEN '52, August, 1967. JOH.N S. RIZNER '59, June 7. He is sur­
vived by his widow Judy, 540 Eclio La., Pala­tine, III. 6O067, and three young children. 
HAROLD R. VOGEL '63, June 14 in \nctnam. He is survived by his widow, 915 Massman Dr., Nashville, Tenn. 
GEORGE J. MURPHY '64, Nov. 20, 1967. He died in tlic crash of a TWA plane approaching the runway of • tlie Greater Cincinnati airport. He is survived by his widow, 4411 ilcndenhall Dr., Dallas, Te.x. 75234. 
THO.NUS J. CARROLL '66, April 26 in Viet-
SYMPATHY 

MARTI.N H. BRENNi\N '23 on the death of 
his wife, June 22. JAMES CASPER '40 on the death of his father. GEORGE C. WI-TTERIED JR. '49 on the 
death of his father GEORGE C. WITTERIED LLB'21, May 20. JAMES J. CAREY '50 on the death of his son. May 9. HENRY J. BALLING JR. '52 on tlic death of his father, June 24. ROBERT E. CRAVEN '52 on the death of Iiis father. P.AUL D. B.ALLING '53 on the death of his lather, June 24. LAWRENCE A. BRENNAN '54 on the death of his mother, June 22. JAMES CAHILL '55 on the death of his wife. May 12. DANA P. WEITHERS '34 on the deatli of his mother June 9. JOHN G. WEITHERS '55 on tlie death of his mother June 9. PETER M. BRENNAN '58 on the death of his mother, June 22. JACQUE HUBER '58 on the death of his mother in April. CLARENCE F. HUTCHES II '59 on tlie death of his father, June 4. JAMES F. SUTTER '39 on the death of his father, H. GERARD SUTTER '25. WILLIAM M. HENNEGHAN '61 on the death of his father. May. JOHN L. HOFFER '61 on tlie death of his father, Jan. 28. WILLIAM F. HUBER '62 on the death of hb mother in April. THOMAS R. BRENNAN '63 on the death of his mother, June 22. 
FACULTY DEATH 

EDWIN FREDERICKSON '20, May 20, South Bend. A retired ND professor of law, he and his brother Arthur were well kno\\*n for their home-made films. They also played in several bands In the '20s and '30s. He attended tlie U. of Alichigan and the U. of Wisconsin and ^vas graduated magna cum laudc from ND. 
/LUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 

GRADUATE SCHOOLS 
Law School Undertakes Year-Abroad Program in England 
DEAN WILLIAM B. LAWLESS assumed his duties as head of the Law School July 1 and two immediate changes in legal edu­cation at ND beean to be implemented under his regime. 
The most dramatic is a year-abroad program for second-year students. Thirty students and Prof. Conrad Kellenberg will leave in September for a year of legal study at University Col., U. of London. They will take courses with English law stu­dents in areas traditionally taught at ND and in other elective areas of comparative and international law. Professor Kellen­bertr will work with them on American aspects of their English courses. 
The English program enjoys the support and assistance of prominent English judges, barristers, solicitors and teachers of law and of American supporters too. In the latter category. Judge Charles Desmond, former chief judge of the New York Court of Appeals, will join the ND contingent for its end-of-the-year evaluation period. 
The students plan two weeks of review and evaluation next May at Cumberland Lodge on the grounds of Windsor Castle after they complete their regular class study in London. 
Another immediate development under Dean Lawless is a move toward elective courses in the second and third years of law study. New courses to be offered in the fall semester, for instance, include seminars in several areas and courses in comparative law, community property and admiralty. Prof. Edward F. Barrett's prac­tice court program, which remains a re­quired course, will expand into both semes­ters to accommodate the electives and to handle an increased third-year class of 81 students. 
The war in Vietnam directly affected the lives of about half of this year's gradu-
FATHER HESBURGH and DEAN LAWLESS President welcomes new dean, \ 
ating class. Nine of the graduates have an 
uncertain future because of the possibility 
of military service; another eight are 
already assigned to military duties — most 
of them as legal officers. 
Nine of the graduates will be law clerks. 
STEVE J. MADONNA will clerk in the 
New Jersey Superior Court (for Judge 
Joseph Stamler). Four graduates will 
clerk for federal district judges — ROB­
ERT J. SIDMAN for Judge Joseph Ken­
neary, Columbus; JOHN SCRIPP for 
Judge John F. Kilkenny, Portland; JAMES 
H. SECKINGER for Judge WiUiam Doyle, Denver; and JOHN A. BURGESS for .Judge Robert A. Grant, South Bend. 
Four will clerk for the judges of the US Courts of Appeals—CHARLES A. WEISS for Judge M. C. Matthes and DENNIS M. KELLY for Judge Charles J. Vogel, both of St. Louis; WILLIAM T. COLEMAN for Judge Roger J. Kiley, Chicago; and OWEN M. LOPEZ for Judge Oliver Seth, Santa Fe. 
Two graduates will go into large metro­politan law firms and 19 into smaller firms, most of them in smaller cities. Four will go into legal-services programs (three of them with Reginald Heber Smith Fel­lowships) ; two plan to work for corpora­tions, one will enter government service, and two will become teachers (THOMAS 
J. KAPACINSKAS, who was appointed an instructor in the General Program at ND, and THOMAS M. WARD, who ^vill be a teaching fellow at the U. of Illinois School of Law). 
Seckinger, a St. John's graduate from North Dakota, was first in the class and received the Hoynes, Lawyers' Title, Pren­tice-Hall and Dean Joseph O'Meara awards. He was one of three members of his class, with Weiss and JOHN E. AM­MERMANN (Detroit, Mich. State), to graduate cum laude. Anunermann won the Farabaugh and Weber Research Pa­per awards. 
The Weber Moot Court awards went to JOHN F. SANDNER (Illinois, So. 111. U.) and RICHARD L. MANNING (Chicago, ND). The Law Week Award, for Ae greatest scholastic improvement in the third year, was given to PAUL A. GORE (Florida, ND). TIMOTHY O. KRISTL (Indiana, ND) won the First National Bank estate planning prize. 
Prof. G. Robert Blakey headed the faculty on "Wiretapping and Electronic Eavesdropping" for the institute on Crim­inal Law and the Constitution at the U. of Michigan in July. Professor Blakey is a nationally-recognized expert on criminal law, particularly on the use of modem technology in criminal investigation. He worked closely this past spring with Senate sponsors of the 1968 "anti-crime" Act, particularly on Title III of the Act, which deals with electronic surveillance. 
Prof. John J. Broderick addressed the ND Club of McHenry County, 111. UND Night. The Club's man of the year was JOSEPH A. CONERTY JR '44, '47, '50L, who was one of Professor Broderick's "V-7". naval officer students at ND in 1943. 
Rev. William Lewers, who is on leave from the faculty in Santiago, Chile, re-' ports he is both studying and teaching in­ternational law there, ' in addition to 
ALUMNUS JULY 196S AUGUST 
working with seminarians, with university 
students, and with the poor of that large 
Latin American city. 
Prof. Bernard J. AVard has been ap­

pointed reporter of tlie Committee on 
Rules of Practice and Procedure of the US 
Supreme Court. The appointment was 
made by Chief Justice Earl Warren. 
Professor Ward, whose specialty is civil 

procedure, has been reporter for the 
Court's Ad\-isory Committee on Appellate 
Rules which recently promulgated uniform 
rules of procedure for the 11 federal courts 
of appeal. He is also the author of a 
forthcoming treatise on federal appellate 
procedure. 
Chief Justice Warren, in announcing 

the new assignment, acknowledged Profes­
sor Ward's contribution to the Court and 
expressed to him "deep gratitude for your 
distinguished service to the bench and 
Bar." 
Professor Ward has been at ND since 

1956. He was educated at Loyola U.. New 
Orleans, and at Yale. He is a member of 
the Louisiana Bar. He will be on leave 
from ND during the 1968-69 academic 
year to serve as visiting professor of law 
at the U. of Texas. 
—Prof. Tom Shaffer 
Law Sc/iool 
Notre Dome, Ind. 46SS6 

English Department 
FR.\NCIS J. MOLSON PhD '65 is one of 12 faculty members on all Indiana U. campuses named as Danforth Foundation .'Associates. Dr. Molson is assistant profes­sor of English at the South Bend-Mish­awaka campus of Indiana U. He joined the faculty there in 1959 and is sen'ing as chairman of the Facult)- Senate. Dan­forth Associates are selected from outstand­ing teachers who are able to bridge the "generation gap" and lend a personal dimension to their teaching. 
Sr. M. FRANZIT.A CSC PhD '58 is this year's recipient of St. Mary's Spes Unica award. This award is conferred by the president of St. Mary's College for outstanding faculty ser\'ice. Sister Franzita is spending the summer in Europe doing research on Dryden. 
SID SHANNON REFFETT MA '64 is returning to Notre Dame to take up doctoral studies in September. For this purpose he is leaving his position as head of the English department at LaPorte HS. 
Sr. MARY MARTIN McCORMICK PVBM MA '58 has received her doctorate from St. Louis U. Her dissertation is titled "A Critical Edition of Abraham Fraunce's 'The Sheapheardes Logike' and 'Twooe General Discourses.'" 
DANIEL T. DENEAU PhD '59 was recently appointed professor and chairman of the department of English at Spring HUl Col., Mobile, Ala. 
THOMAS EAGAN MA '62 of Flushing, NY has written a three-act comedy en­tiUed "The Real World." The play, set in Oklahoma City, was presented by the drama students at the U. of Oklahoma April 17. The comedy concerns an upper­middle-class family and deals with over­population, the generation gap, and other Sam S. Shubert Pla>'wright Fellowship. The fellowship, awarded by the Sam S. Shubert Foundation of New York, requires the recipient to write a full-length play during the year. 
—Prof. Edward Vasta 
Fngff'sfi Depf. Notre Dome, Ind, 

Mathematics 
Prof. James D. Stasheff will be a visiting 
professor of mathematics at Princeton U. 
for the academic year 1968-1969. He will 
then be an Alfred P. Sloan Fellow the 
following year. 
ANTHONY C. HUGHES PhD '66 has 
accepted a position as assistant professor 
in the mathematics department at Boston 
State Col. in Boston. 
LESTER H. L.\NGE PhD '60 is pro­fessor of mathematics and chairman of the department of mathematics at San Jose State Col. in San Jose, Calif. A book of his. Elementary Linear Algebra, has re­cently been published by John Wiley & Sons. Professor Lange spent a month in Bangkok, Thailand where he taught 30 advanced Thai high school teachers for the Ministry of Education. 
ARNOLD STOKES PhD '59 is pro­fessor of mathematics and chairman of the department of mathematics at Geoigetown 
U. in Washington, DC. He has six chil­dren and is a consultant for NASA at the Goddard Space Flight Center. 
JOHN J. TAYLOR MS '47 recenUy was named to the position of engineering man­ager of the PWR Plant Division of West­inghouse in Pittsburgh. 
JAMES WIRTH PhD '66 is an assistant professor of mathematics at East Carolina Col. in Greenville, NC. 
Three PhDs in mathematics were awarded this June: JOHN J. HIRSCH­FELDER has accepted a position as as­sistant professor at the U. of Washington in Seatde; STEPHEN J. O'DONNELL is now a postdoctoral instructor in mathe­matics at ND; JAMES W. O'TOOLE is an assistant professor of mathematics at the College of the Holy Cross in Worces­ter, Mass. 
—George Ko/ettis 
Depl. of Motfiemotfcs 
Notre Dome, Ind. 46556 

Mechanical Engineering 
The department presently offers graduate 
work in three programs: systems and con­
trols, nuclear and thermal sciences (heat 
transfer, fluid mechanics, thermodynamics). 
The heat transfer and thermodynamics 
group is studying various aspects of free 
convection phenomena. Dr. K. T. Yang 
and Dr. Jerome Novotny are investigating 
analytically free convection behaviors in 
temperature or density stratified environ­
ments with possible applications in deep 
ocean and under-sea habitats. These same 
phenomena are being studied experimen­
tally by Dr. Stuart McComas in a spe­
cially designed environmental chamber. 
In another project. Dr. Yang and Dr. Albin Szewcz)'k are investigating free con­vection about plates and disks at low Gras­hof numbers to gain insight to the coupling process between the energy and momentum fields and also to the development of boun­dary layer behaviors. With the collaboration of Dr. Victor Nee they are also studying turbulent free convection with a view to de­veloping a more rational phenomenological theory. 
Dr. McComas is investigating the effects of secondary flows generated by free con­vection as well as direct free convection ef­fects on flow and heat transfer in horizon­tal and vertical channels and pipes. Dr. Novotny is also researching the effects of various radiation-interaction parameters on heat transfer in free convection stagnation flow with emphasis on the role of the optically thin and optically thick limits in boundary layer behavior. 
In the area of thermal radiation. Dr. Novotny is directing research on the in­fluence of gaseous radiation in the heat transfer in conducting gas layers and an experimental determination of the radiative properties of painted surfaces, while Dr. 
contemporary problems. Eagan has been DR. W . F. STOIL, STEPHEN O'DONNELL and JOHN HIRSCHFELDER studying at OU this year under a $2,580 
Advice from the chairman for the new PhDs. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 

Robert Manning is studying the interaction of thermal conduction and radiation in partially transparent solids. 
Dr. Edward Jerger is working on proj­ects dealing with supersonic condensing in­jector performance and Dr. Manning is studying nonequilibrium processes in electric and magnetic polarized solids. 
Dr. Jerger continues serving as a con­sultant on engineering education to the Dominican Republic and was recently elected vice-president (central region) of the Pi Tau Sigma mechanical engineering honorary. Dr. Jerger has been designated by the Department of the Army, Office of Civil Defense, as director of the Indiana State CD professional advisory center. Dr. Novotny has been selected by the ASME to serve on the national committee on thcrmophysical properties. 
In subsequent issues the activities of our other groups will be described. A copy of the department's 1967 Annual Research Summary may be obtained by writing the department chairman. 
DANIEL J. TOWERS (MS '67) has been promoted to 1st Lt. in the US.\F. TOM MARCINIAK, CH.-VRLES LOVAS and JOHN BRENNER have completed their PhD requirements. ARTHUR FRIGO (MS '68) is now a research engineer at Argonne. 
Prof. George Rohrbach has retired after 37 years of dedicated service on the Uni­versity faculty. 
We ask graduates to send us news of their activities for subsequent publication in this column. 
—Edward Jerger, Chairman 
Mechanical Engineering Depf. 
Notre Dame, tnd, 46556 

Philosophy Department 
At the annual meeting of the American Catholic Philosophical Assoc, in April at New Orleans, three members of the de­partment gave papers or comments: A. R. C.\PONIGRI on "Seneca: Reason and Death," A. E. M.'\NIER on "Man's Re­sponsibility for Future Human Evolution" 
H. S. Johnston on "The Order of Teaching and Learning." 
Also attending this meeting as members of the executive council of the Association were Professors Ralph Mclnemy, John Ocstcrle and Eman McMullin. A luncheon for department members and Alumni at the Court of the Two Sisters was hosted by Bahram Jamalpur (Teheran, Iran) and Ernest Briones, nonresident advanced graduates who served on the committee for arrangements of the convention. 
Rev. Eman McMullin, department chairman, was elected to the four-man ex­ecutive council of the Metaphysical Society of America. April 5-6 he presented three lectures on "Stages in the Development of Galileo's Mechanics" to the Council of Col­lege Teachers of Physics, an NSF-spon­sored study group at the U. of Wisconsin in Milwaukee. 
Graduate student Rafael T. Caldera, Caracas, Venezuela, in graduate philosophy at ND under the auspices of the Inter­national Institute of Education, was select­ed as a delegate to the First World Con­ference on Mankind at the Center for In­tercultural Studies of the U. of Chicago April 5-11. 
The department was also represented at the Western Division meeting of the American Philosophical Assoc, in S t Louis May 2-4. Dr. Guido Kiing presented a paper entitled "The Role of Language in Phenomenological Analysis." Father Mc­Mullin presented a paper in the philosophy of science section, "The Significance of the Use of Models in Theoretical Physics." Rev. DAVID BURRELL commentated on T. Patterson Brown's paper, "Logical Mysti­cism." In St. Louis, over the same week­end. Father Burrell and Dr. FREDERICK CROSSON, the new dean of arts and letters, spoke at the annual meeting of the Catholic Commission on Cultural and In­tellectual Affairs. The theme this year was "Secular Theology." 
Father McMullin attended the meeting in Chicago April 26 of the six US con-suitors of the Vatican Secretariate for Non-Bclievers with Bishop Wright of Pittsburgh, newly appointed chairman of their group. It was decided to hold a major conference at ND in September, 1969 on the theme "The Sources of Unbelief in the United States." Participants will represent such fields as psychology, cultural anthropology, science, technology, literature and theater. 
May 14 Father McMullin lectured at Tufts U., Boston, on "Reductionism and Anti-reductionism: Where Does Virtue Lie?" May 15 he was a commentator on a paper by Prof. John Murdoch (Harvard) entitled "Mathematics in the Resolution of Philosophical Problems in 14th Century Mechanics" and delivered to the Boston Colloquium in Philosophy of Science at Boston U. 
In June Dr. Manier commented on "Teleology and History as Unique Factors in Biological Explanation" at the Asilomar, Calif, meeting of the Council on Under­graduate Education in the Biological Sciences. 
Dr. Robert Caponigri, assisted by Dr. Neil Delaney, organized and chaired the ND Humanities Workshop, sponsored jointly by the ND Committee on the Hu­manities and the office of the ^ce-presi­dent for academic afi'airs. For two weeks in June the Workshop of ten representa­tives of the humanities at ND explored with the two invited leaders. Dr. Richard McKcon of Chicago U. and Dr. Albert Levi of Washington U., St. Louis, ways of improving the teaching of the hu­manities. 
Two new appointments to the regular staif are Michael Loux, PhD, U. of Chi­cago, and William D. Solomon, PhD U. of Texas. 
Two visiting professors in the '68-'69 academic year will be Prof. Maxwell J. Charlesworth, U. of Melbourne, Australia (fall semester), and, for the spring se­mester. Prof. Vere Chappell of Chicago U. 
The department will be represented at the International Congress of Philosophy at Vienna, Austria, by Professors Balle­strem, Caponigri, Hund, McMullin and Kiing. In 1968 the department will have graduated 11 MAs and eight PbDs. 
—Pn{. John }. FiizGvatd 
Otpf. of Philotophy 
Noir* Dam; Ind. 46556 

Melalluriical Engineeriq; 
The usual author of this column. Prof. B. 
O. Cullity, is enjoying a well-deserved Mexican holiday, but let me fill in where I can. First I would like to extend again Prof. Cullity's hopeful invitation to all of you to keep him posted on your where­abouts, promotions and transfers and what you are doing. I think you will agree that it is interesting and pleasant to keep track of old friends and acquaintances. And you are our most reliable source of in­formation. 
One of the people whom both the Alumni Association and we have lost track of is DILIP K. DAS PhD '54 who, ac­cording to a recent article, is co-inventor of a process for producing copper with good strength and dimensional stability at elevated temperatures, important in high-powered electron tubes and similar devices. 
HUGH McQUEEN PhD '61 has been working and publishing extensively in the field of hot working of metals for the past two years at the Mines Branch of Canada's Bureau of Energy, Mines and Resources in Ottawa. In the fall he will be accepting an appointment as associate professor of metallurgy at Sir George Williams U. in Montreal. 
Enjoying the southern hospitality and beautiful magnolias of the Aiken, SC area are JAMES A. DONOVAN MS '61, PhD '66, M. R. LOUTH.\N JR PhD '67, SHELDON P. RIDEOUT MS '51 and 
M. L. HOLZWORTH MS '49. They are all with the Savannah River Laboratory, £ . I. du Pont de Nemours Co. 
The problem of attracting students into the little-known field of metallurgy is a perennial one. One of the most common questions we are asked by prospective students is what kind of woric do our graduates really do? I have been wondering if this question could not be answered more easily, and perhaps quite impressively in many cases, if the graduate and imder­g.-aduate Alumni would supply us with some small products, parts of products or photographs of products in whose design or manufacture they have taken part 
Or perhaps enlarged photomicrographs such as those we are presently displaying (electron micrographs of several high-temperature nickel-base alloys) which were donated by JAMES E. COYNE BS '53. One or two of the fine optical micrographs of dislocations in niobium, which appeared in last fall's ASM International Metal­lographic Exhibit, would surely spruce up our lab or corridor. They are the work of RONALD G. VARDIMAN PhD '61 of the US Naval Research Laboratory, Wash­ington, DC. We have a glass display case available and lots of wall space. 
If you could help us out in any of these ways, please include a descriptive caption 
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 
and your name, degree and year and present title and company affiliation; 8 x 10 or so is a good size for individual photo­micrographs. 
—Prof. Charles W. Allen Oepf. of Melo/lurgi'co/ Engineering 
and Materials Science Box E Nofre Dome, Ind. 46556 

Physics Department 
Our official "head count" of Physics PhD Alumni is now 138, an increase of seven over the figure given in column No. 1 (March-1968-AprU). The 7 new members, as listed in the June 1968 Commencement Exercises Bulletin, are JOHN HALL DINAN, Feb. I, '68 (physical electronics); RICHARD J. FORTNER, June 2, '68 (physical electronics) ; ALBERT JOSEPH FROELICH, Feb. 1, '68 (nuclear physics); Lt. GRANT R. GARRITSON USN, Feb. 
1. '68 (nuclear physics); JERRY W. 
LAMSA, Feb. 1, '68 (elementary particle 
physics); WILLIAM C. NIEHAUS, June 
2, '68 (physical electronics); Hock Kee 
Sim, June 2, '68 (theoretical phyncs). 
Jack Dinan completed requirements for hb PhD degree late last summer and has been at Yale this past year on a post­doctoral appointment. Dick Fortner is now at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory, Idvermore, Calif. Al Froelich stayed on at ND on a postdoctoral appointment. Lt. Grant Garritson, who b a graduate of the US Naval Academy, is now at the Navy's Reactor School in Bainbridge, Md. Jerry Lamsa is a research associate at Purdue. Bill Niehaus has joined Bell Telephone Laboratories at Murray Hill, NJ. Hock Kee Sim will be at Northwestern this next academic year on a postdoctoral appoint­ment. 
A very considerable expanaon of_ our research programs in solid state physics is well under way, with the formation of a new research group in this area. The new group will be headed by Dr. WALTER J. 
Sister Martj Arthen SSND 'S4 
MUSICAL NUN GOES INTERNATIONAL 
A 
LOT of people in Quincy, III. had 
never talked to a nun until Sister 
Mary Arthen SSND '54 tuned them in. 
But talk she did and it all came out 
like music 
She calls herself "just an ordinary 
music teacher" but she is really some­
thing else. According to her Quincy is 
a very musical city and she "loving 
music and having a good musical back­
ground, made stronger by about 51 
graduate credits from the ND music 
department, just happened to hit upon 
a good thing." 
Her good thing is a "one-man" show in Notre Dame High School's music department which includes chorus classes, a special chorus, concert choir, orchestra, string ensemble and private students. When she was assigned to the full schedule, she found her master's degree in voice didn't help her cope with the orchestra, so back she came to Notre Dame for more summer work in strings. 
Now she and her students enter all the state contests and panoramas and play in the all-district and all-state music organizations. It was because of this active participation that she was considered by the Illinois State Music Association as a chaperone for the all-state chorus and orchestra which would be traveling to Europe this summer. The group performed at the Interna­tional Society for Music Education conference in Dijon, France in July. 
"I signed up for it, thinking I would never make it out of all those public school teachers in Illinois," she says. More than 350 volunteered and, after investigation and interviews, only 30 were chosen. To add other feathers to her wimple, she was selected as one of 14 among the 30 to be teaching-chaper­ones and she is the only nun. She says there must have been a special ecu­menical reason for her selection and. 

even before the trip, it paid oflF— ecumenically speaking. 
The folks in Quincy know Sister Mary isn't just an ordinary teacher. When they found out she needed some cash to get to Europe they organized a successful "Sister Mary Appreciation Day" bake sale that netted $435 plus $300 in contributions. 
But then nothing was being done to help the public school students raise money for their trips, so Sister organized a city-wide rummage sale. Because it was sponsored by a nun, it received great publicity and Sister found her­self on the front pages, in editorials, oa newscasts and TV interviews for several days. 
The sde raised $2000 and the mothers and dads of those going became real buddies with Sister Mary Arthen. "Many had never talked to a nun before and there is much better undentanding now," she says. And that can't be measured in auctioneer's language. 
! TOMASCH who has recently joined our faculty. Dr. Tomasch was formerly with Atomics International. 
Our new 15 MeV Tandem Accelerator is now officially "on the air," the first proton beam from the machine having been obtained this past week (week of June 16). A great deal of work still remains to be done before the new accelerator can actually be used for research. 
In the 1968-69 academic year we will have approximately 80 full-time graduate students and approximately 95 undergrad­uate physics uajors (sophomores, juniors and seniors). The estimated number of freshman physics intents is about 60. Our teaching faculty will consist of approxi­mately 30 menijiers, supported by an esti­mated 8 to 10 additional members of the research staff. 
The first two physics PIiD Alumni colunms (see issues for March-April and May-June) contained brief "write-ups" on our first 13 PhD Alumni, namely those who received their degrees in the 1940s. A fast count reveals that 52 PhD degrees in physics were awarded in the 1950s so my job is expanding rapidly. In fact it ap­pears it will require several columns to bring you up to date on the present where­abouts and activities of our PhD recipients of the 1950s. Since two of these Alumni have recently been in the news, I'll start with them. 
DpNALD J. ANTHONY '53 (nuclear physics) has recently been named to head 
'the newly formed Operating Nuclear Plants Component at General Electric Company's Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory. As head of the new component, Don will have the responsibility for all currently operating KAPL-designed nuclear systems. Don and wife. Norma, live at 228 Spring Ave., Troy, NY 12180. They have five children. Donna, Mark (who just completed his first year at ND), Donald. Norma and Susan. 
WALTER B. LaBERGE '51 (physical electronics) was recently named vice-presi­dent of Philco-Ford Corporation's Elec­tronics Group, after having served as gen­eral manager of their Western Develop­ment Laboratories Division. Walt, who will have offices in Philadelphia, will super­vise Philco-Ford's six defense, space and industrial divisions. Since Walt has not yet "checked in," I am unable to supply further details as to home address, children, etc. 
The information about Walt LaBerge was supplied by ERNEST G. BROCK '51 (phpical electronics). Many thanks, Ernie, for the information and the ac­companying letter. Ernie is head of the Quantum Electronics Division, Aerospace Corporation, El Segundo, Calif. Ernie and wife, Alice, live at 2607 Finale Lane. PO Box 1045, Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. 90274. They have three children, Ernest, Philip and Cynthia. 
Since this column is already too long. I had better end it. In the next one I will endeavor to provide up-to-date information on more of our PhD recipients of the 1950s. 
—Prof. Roberf t. Anthony Physics Oepf. Nofre Dome, Ind. 46556 

Music Department 
Considerable research and study have gone into the formulation of a proposed insti­tute to be offered during the summer ses­sion of 1969 on the teaching of general music on the elementary and intermediate levels. Iti s being designed for teachers in self-contained classrooms teaching in dis­advantaged and/or rural areas. Complete 
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 

FACULTY NEWSAAAKERS—Cr. Milton Burton (right), formally prasmtad to CcnS Wai3 ' M tf director of the NO Radiation Lab, has been named menh The award ploqu*, whkhbaan Dr. Ba(diiigtr*s recipient of New York U's first Graduate School Alumni name, also lists the naaws of KmncMi A. Khowry *66 Association Award in Chemistry. Dr. Lawrence H. and Patrick 0'D«i '67 for th ^ •ffbrls in establishing Baldinger (left) was honored when the first annual the award which honors tho deportiiMnt choimion. 
award for a graduating preprofessional student was 
criterion for selection of participants to the institute has not yet been established; however, the educational personnel in­volved will -have little or no training in music and prospective participants must adhere to the minimum entrance require­ments as established by the Graduate School. . 
This institute will be directed to those conditions which compound an already in­sufficient and increasingly critical program in basic music education for the following reasons: (I) the subject matter ordinarily preem'pts teaching time within the estab­lished curriculum of a particular institu­tion; (2) unless given the opportunity of in-service training with a music specialist or music consultant, the teacher is com­pletely unqualified to present an adequate program of a sustained and worthwhile nature; (3) without a basic knowledge and background of music, the teacher lacks confidence and, in most instances, becomes disinterested in the presentation of the music program; (4) in cases of extreme incompetence and lack of interest, the program may be ignored completely. 
This institute will consider, through its curriculum, an approach directed to three areas which have an important effect on the student: (1) the administrator — in an effort to create a proper and efficient educational and structural atmosphere; 
(2) the resource teacher, music specialist and/or resource agency — to provide the actual training of the educational person­nel and who provides an active reference for continued information; and (3) the classroom teacher — who must teach the daily classes. Further information will be made available upon implementation of this program. 
The department will also offer (for the academic year 1968-69) a new curriculum of music education on the undergraduate level. The continued acquisitions to the graduate library have been outstanding and have rapidly made this one of the finest collections in the country. 
Our congratulations to DUDLEY BIR­DER '52, recipient of the 1968 Man of the Year Award by the ND Club of Green Bay. 
—James S. Phillips University Bands, Box 523 Noire Dame, Ind. 46556 

chemistry at the June commencement: CHARLES AMATA, now with Union Carbide in Cleveland; Rev. BONAVEN­TURE DENK OSB, Behnont Abbey, Behnont, NC; JOHN GANNON, Chevron, San Francisco; CHESTER GIZA, Wheel­ing Col., W. Va.; CLIFFORD HEBERT, Loyola U., New Orleans; JAMES HICK­MAN, DuPont, Wihnington; Sr. ELIZA­BETH KELLER CSJ, Loyola U., New Orleans; FREDERICK MEYERS, Fort Belvoir, Va; JAI PAL MITTAL, post-doctoring at UCLA; JOHN MOTIER, Sinclair, Harvey, 111.; Sr. MARIE ANGELA MULLINS SCH, M t St. Vincent Col., Halifax, Nova Scotia; DONALD SURBEY, Lubrizol, Cleveland; WALTON WELNA, American Oil, Whit­ing, Ind.; and STANISLAUS ZIEMECKI, DuPont, Wilmington. 
At Seatde U. Rev. JAMES COWGILL SJ '57 heads the physics dept. and Rev. ERNEST BERTIN SJ '57 and DAVID READ '49 are teaching chemistry. JOHN FORTMAN '66 is teaching and research­ing at Wright State U. in Dayton; he was married May 18 to Margaret Murry. DAN NOLAN '39, recently retired from S t Vincent Col., Latrobe, Pa., where he served for many years as head of the chemistry dept., was at the Alumni Re­tuiion in June (class of '23). His daughter is married to ED REILLY '52 who is with the central research dept of DuPont in Wilmington. They have eleven children. ED WILLIAMS MS '50 (PhD Purdue '60) teaches at S t Norbert CoL, West DePere, Wis. ED ZUBLER '53 is with General Electric in Cleveland; he visits the Campus each ' year in search of ND chemists. 
We hope to schedule the ND social hour at the Atlantic City ACS meeting for Tuesday, Sept 10. See you there. 
—iro. Co/umba Curran CSC 
Oepf. of Chemistry 
Notre Dame, Ind. 4655$ 

Sociology Department 
Six of the departmenti's staff, studiously ignoring South Bend's reputation as sum­wife and children in tow, is among a contingent of ND professors tffaching in Gennany. Dr. Arthur J. Rubd will not wind up his IS-month sojourn in Menoo as population program advisor far die Ford Foundation until September. 
An AID-sponsored research project will keq> Dr. WILUAM T. LIU MA '52 in the Hulippines and Dr. Jdm P. Koval inll be in England to do research on changing occupational structures. Anthropidogists Irwin J. Press and Carl OTfell are headed for summer research sites in Mexico. 
Meanvdiile the department is being m n by its indispensable administrative awistant, Mrs. Florence Lawrence, with minimal assistance from Acting Cluunnan ROBERT 
H. VASOU MA '53, PhD '63. Current Summer Session courses are being tan^^t by Dr. John J. Kane (Race and Minor­ities), Dr. Frank J. Fahey BA '49, MA '51, PhD '59 (Methods of Research) and Dr. Plcess (Advanced Review of Antliropology and Social Stratification). Firojections based on this year's heavy enrollment in­dicate an increase in the number of coniset that will be offered during the summer of 1969. 
Dr. GORDON J. DiRENZO MA '56, MA '57, PhD '63, now a mainstay at Indiana University's South Bend-It£sha­waka Campus, renounced bachelorhood July 6 in Sacred Heart Church. tSsay Kay Ryan of South Bend is the winsome, persuasive bride. Sister RUTH WAL­LACE, IHM MA '61—formerly Sister JEAN BAPTIST WALLACE—received her PhD this June &om the U . of Cali­fornia, Berkeley. 
A tepUcation of LOUIS BUCKLEY'S well-known study of NO'S Class of '28 will be conducted on Loras CoL graduates by Rev. PHILIP A. HAMILTON PhD '61. Former Loretto Heights CoL depart­ment chairman ROBERT H. AMUND­SON MA '52, PhD '56 was awarded an MA in anthropology by the U. <rf Colorado. JOSEPH DORAN '48, MS '49, HiD '63 is presently affiliated with the department of preventive medicine of the State U. of New York at Buffalo. 
mer Fun City of Northern Indiana, are —froF. Koberf VosoR 
Chemistry Department 
spending all or part of the summer of Sociofogy Oept. 
1968 abroad. Dr. William V. D'Antonio, Nam Dam; Ind. 4606
The following were awarded the PhD in 
AlUMNUS JULY J9<8 AUGUST 
Sophomores Beat the Summer Slump 
Clubs 

S
UMMER employment or the lack of 
it has been one of the biggest gripes 
of college students this year. So, to 
ease the "looking longer than work­
ing" problem, ND's sophomore class 
ofticers decided to beat the problem 
to the punch. 
Calling in the ^ d of the ND Alumni Association, Vice-Pres. Kevin Donovan set up a pilot summer place­ment program with Alumni Secretary Jim Cooney and the Alumni Club presidents throughout the country. 
Establishment of job placement committees within the Alumni Clubs has long been a recommendation of the ND Alumni Office and the Na­tional Alumni Board. So the sopho­more proposal was a good opportunity to activate a new dimension in Club programming. 
With the needed cooperation at hand, the class officers then took the middle step—a referendum of the class in all of the halls on Campus. The tally showed approximately 50 students who wanted to enlist the services of the local Alumni in their home towns. The areas ranged from Seattle and San Diego to Boston and Fort Lauderdale. 
Letters were sent, appeals made and the search began. The various Club presidents or their representatives con­tacted employers in the kinds of busi­nesses students were interested in. In some cases the student's job preference was not always available but a job usually was. 
"With the rising cost of higher ed­ucation, a supplementary income is a necessity," Cooney remarked, "and am glad we can help the students out. This program is also as important to the Clubs as it is to the students. If the student can be assisted by us, then he becomes a much better potential Club member. So there are mutual benefits involved here." 
After the response the sophomore class received, the program may be expanded to the freshmen, juniors and seniors in coming years. 
ITS a Small World 
Some of them had to come 5000 miles to do it, but they said it was worth it to meet Ed "Moose" Krause '34, ND athletic director. The oc­casion was the thirteenth annual Mil­itary Council of Catholic Men in Berchtesgaden, Germany. 
Krause was the chief lay speaker at the spring council and one of the bonuses of his trip was meeting Alumni who belong to ND Clubs in Europe. 
Pictured below (first row) are Lt. Mike Roddy '66, who is now with the 4th Bn, 6th Arty, in Spangdahlcn, Germany; Lt. Jim CuUey '66, 60th Army Postal Unit, SHAPE, Belgium; Rev. Edward Dougherty '48, USAC, Karlsruhe, Germany. 
In the second row are Capt. Bob Kennedy '65,3rd Infantry Div., Wiirz­burg, Germany; Lt. Pat Brennan '"63, S&MA-6SD, Zweibriicken, Germany; Maj. Gen. Robert H. Schellman, HQ 
KRAUSE AND IRISH IN EUROPE Bantering in Berchtesgaden. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 

USEUCOM 53; Krause; Marshal McAveney '33, who is in the immigra­tion office of the consulate general in Frankfurt, Germany; Lt. Tony Colucci '67, NATO/SHAPE Support in SHAPE, Belgium; and Father Miller, NATO chaplain in Brussels, Belgium. 
BOSTON 

The new officen chosen to lead the Club during the upcoming year are RICHARD W. MURPHY '58, pres.; ARTHUR P. MURPHY *59, vice-pres.; THOMAS R. WELCH '57, treas.; WILLIAM J. PIETRUSIAK *58, sec JOHN C. McCULLOUGH '63 and JOSEPH F. KINXEALEY '39 were elected directors, replacing J. RICHARD LAMERE '49 and PAUL F. SULLIVAN '49. Our thanks to tHck and Paul for their years of time and effort. 
The Club recently appointed the Rev. John Fitzgerald as chapbin, succeeding M^r. COR­NELIUS J. DONOVAN '09, who passed away earlier this year. Fr. Fitzgerald is the prison chaplain at Walpole State I^ison. He recently was the main celebrant at the Memorial Mass for Senator Robert F. Kennedy, held at the Cathedral of the Holy Cross, Boston. 
Joe Kinnealey and Dick Lamere were co-chairmen of the fourth annual Gkilf Outing held at Wollaston Golf Club, Quincy June 18. They were ably assisted by LOU DiGIOVANNI '49. Twenty of ND's best golfers participated in the jolf tournament. A dinner for over thirty mem­bers was held in the evening. 
JACK KARLE M\ '56, Scholarship Committee rhatrman, has announced that $500.00 scholar* ships were awi^rded for the upcoming school year to incoming freshmen John Giltis, Chatham, and Anthony Wyner, West Boxford. Jack pointed out that the choice was particularly tough this year due to the large number of highly qualified ap­plicants. 
The Club extends its thanlcs to Jack and his committee for their many hours of hard but productive and rewarding effort! Working with Jack on the Scholarship Committee are JOHN 
L. CONNELL, JR. '51, THOMAS F. KIN­NEALEY '38, PAUL F. HELLMUTH '40. and AHCHAEL B. O'TOOLE '55. 
—Bill Pietruaak '58, Secretary 
BUFFALO 

We are presently updating our western New York directory and have happily learned that there are now about 500 ND graduates in our area. In our survey %ve ane learning individual occupations, family status, and the like. This should prove valuable to the success of our program for this year and the future. 
Our steering committee has already set up chairmanships for a Night At The Races, basket picnic. Golf Outing, and the Christmas dance. Plans for a Communion Breakfast, retreat, and annual highlights meetings will follow soon. We have also initiated a speaker's bureau to lead discussions on various timely or informative sub­jects at our meetings. 
GENE P. O'CONNOR '56 is running for the US Congress and is enjoying our full and active wpport. 
^Robert A. Dnijem '64, Secretary 
CHICAGO 

New officers chosen to lead the Club during the coming year are JOSEPH J. ARCHIBALD JR '50, pies; KENNETH R. SCHUSTER '49, first vice-pres.; PATRICK J. MONTROY '53, second vice-pres.; THOMAS F. CAREY '55, sec; JOSEPH L. RIGALI, JR '51, treas.; ELONARD 
O. KREZ '23, hon. pres.; and Rev. Msgr. JAMES 
V. MOSCOW '34 wiU serve as chaplain. The following persons were chosen to serve three-year tenDs on the board of governors of the Club; 
THOMAS C. CONOSCENTI '67, GEORGE W. GROBEL '57, ALVIS W. HANEY '53, THOMAS 
F. MONAHAN '40, J. HOBIE MURNANE '44, FRANK R. REYNOLDS JR '59 and WILLIAM 
F. OREMER JR '50. DONALD E. STEPHAN '64 was appointed to a one-year term on the board of governors replacing his brother, EDMUND A. STEPHAN '61 who moved to New York. DENNIS M. TOOLAN '68, ex-pres. ND Campus Club viiU serve ex officio for one year on the Board of Governors. The Club will have a new public relations officer PAUL FULLMER '55 who is replacing 
JOSEPH ARCHIBALD. EDWARD M. MORAN '34 and FRANK J. MURNANE '49 wHl handle 
REIDY, FRIEND, CORRIGAN, GUIYASSY, O'NBU Starting a new Club year in Oeveland. 
the special events for the Qub. The anBual 
Golf Outing will be held Aug. 5 at the Elmbinst 
Country Club. Cochaiimen are P. J. Moatroy '53 
and JACK B. DWYER '49. 
—Thomas Carey '55, Secrelaiy 

^^^^ CINCINNATI ^^^^ 
At the annual election meeting at the Burger Tap 
Room, the following new officers were chosen 
to lead the Club during the coming year: LARRY 
KYTE '60, pres.; JACK LYNCH '63, vice-pres.; 
DREW BARTON '60, treas.; and DICK CASTEL­
LINL '54, sec. 
BILL BURKE '54 and Drew Barton '60 served 
as cochairmen of the annual Golf Outing July 10 
at Hyde Park Country Qub. The annual Fresh­
man Send-Off Picnic will be Sept. 3 at Mt. Airy 
Forest. 
—Larry Kyte '60, Secretary 

^^^^ CLEVELAND ^^^^ The honorable Mr. COYNE has retired trtm the job as Alumni secretary. We presented him with an engraved plaque epitomizing the 10 years of meritorious service put forth so unselfishly and dc\'otedIy by John. He's so busy in so many diverse interests now that he was compelled to relinquish the reins to me. The new Prewlent didn't let him off the hook completely however since he now has chairmanship of all-important placement committee for graduates, job reloca­tion, summer help, etc. As a matter of fact, we have even retired his tide as a gesture of gratitude. My position is kind of a "ficto" job. I see that everybody has enough martinis, dance partners and all that kind of fun stuff. 
Newly elected officers are: VICTOR J. 
GULYASSY '42, pres.; THOS. A. CORRIGAN 
'57, vice-pres.; FRED W. FRIEND '50, sec; F. 
MICHAEL O'NEILL '61, tteas. 
These officers were formally installed at a board of governors meeting on June 4 at Kiefer's Restaurant attended by about 55 members and their wives. JOHN J. REIDY SR. LLB "27, a national board member, conducted the formal swearing in of the officers. 
Some of those in attendance, such as PAT CANNY, FRED NAEGELE and GEORGE KERVER left directly from the party for this year's Reunion up at school. In all it was a very successful event with emphasis on increasing our numbers, advancing our causes, and enhancing our name and the University in the entire Northern Ohio area. 
—Patrick J. Cannon '55, Executive Secretary 
DAYTON 

The new ofiicers of the Club were elected at the local UN Night celebration April 25. The new officers ivasted little time getting organized. Their first meeting was held on &Iay 7. Those present were RON HENNE '57, pres.; JIM BROGAN *62. vice-pres.; Lt. MIKEMATHIS '65, '67, sec; and JACK. BARSTOW '65, treas. Also in attendance were ED STEINER '44 and BOB HOLLEN­CAMP '49, '50. 
It was decided at this meeting that the new scholarship fund would be the main project for the coming year. The Boanl af Direetoa n ­sponnble for the Schobmliip Fund are Ed Steiner pres.; HERM ZITT '48, vice-piei.; PAT FOLEY '54, '55. '56, ICC and FRANK McBRmE '30^ treas. aIof« with jn i BROGAN 'G2, Rm Hcane '57, and Lt. Mike Uathis '65, '67. Tim Baud Mil a luncheon meeting on Jane 4. The brbws ol the Scbolaiship Fond were rriihiiiwl by thor author Pat Foley- Flans were made ts lead o n a inaifing as soon as the by-laws recclred apppvnl bam the Internal Revenue Service. 
There was much djyuwion on aeir ways to get 
more Ahmmi imrolved in the aSaun at die Cliib. 
Suggestions for rhanging the nniihaA *mi activ­
ities of the Qbb were presented. 
An prospective Notre Dame students, icgaidles 
of their grade in school, axe invited to attend the 
Picnic with their parents. This should afford all 
an excellent opportimity to talk with preseat and 
past students. Vfhat better way to fiiid oat what 
Notre Dame it all about .. . 
—Uike Uathis '65^ Secretary 

^^^^ DECATUI, IIL = 
BERNARD MARTY >37 nurtnted our inn"^i Golf Outing to its highest partidpatioa: toured the eighteen, and thirty-foor members made up the nineteenth. A. LANDOLT '50 of Virginia 
m. and J. HIRSCHFELD '58 LLB '61, irith J. MCNAMARA '61 from fJiampajgn, Uinais, travelled a straight line to the golf prizes. Abo scrambling to the winners' circle were JOHN DUNN '58 LLB '61, NICK NEIERS '58 LLB '61, JOHN LANIGAN '62; and G. Sheehan. 
Our chaplain Rev. ROBERT STEWART '45 maintained his composure even when DAN CAREY '61 wouU let fly "fore" mm shots. Afichae] Dougherty, David Ward, John Shiel Jr. John Couter, Paul Hagenback, and John Grap received student membership cards from Dr. ED KOVAL '50. "The 1967 Notre Dame FootbaO Highlishts" shown by JOHN DUNN sthnulated on-the-spot organization of our alumni bus trip HhSs bSL 
—Steve Gralifcer '43, Secretaxr 

As the deadline for this column approaches, we here in Erie, are finalizing our platis for our .nwMal Summer Picnic Among those who wiU attend are: JOSEPH BARBER '36, ROBERT BARBER '«>, LEO BRUGGER SR '34. LEO BRUGGER JR '61, DONALD BUSECR '50^ HOWARD ESSICK '41, WILLIAM GRANT '45, EDWARD KERN '56, HERBERT KERN '54, JAMES MAHONEY '51, JOHN McCORMICK JR '53, RICHARD McCORMICK'55, TIMOTHY McCORMICK '57, LEWIS SHIOLENO '49, JOHN SrrTERLE '60, JOSEPH STADLER '53, RONALD VOMERO '65, Robert Weschler, CHARLES WITTMANN '33, JOHN YOUNG '51, ANTHONY ZAMBROSKI '52, Frank Mey, Hoot Scully aixl Fred Strasser, and their wives. Also Jui^e Thomas Barber, Michad McCanni^ Mike McCoy and Joseph Spak. 
RICHARD ARRINGTON '65 kokSng fqcwaid to the coming football season. It seems Rich tigned to play ball in Cinada come lalL 

ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 
The TOM GALLAGHERs '55 are now settled in Liitliexsbux]^, Bid. We all here in Erie wish him the best of luck with his new job. 
]£ke McConnick has been quite busy with lus wofk here at Erie Beer Co., but still finds some tune to get to New York to renew aquaintances with DON CRIQUI '62, another ND graduate who got his radio and TV start at Notre Dame and here in Erie. 
Tony Zaxnbroslu is getting quite aniuous for the start of the football season here in Erie. Tony will be the new head football coach at Cathedral IVep this year. 
JOHN PALMIS.\NO '55 is really enjoying married life. You can sure tcll by looking at him that borne coc^ng has done Wbnders for him. 
—^Lco J. Bruggcr Jr '61, Secretary 

-' GREATER MIAMI • 
It was a very warm but delightful day for our annual Golf Day at the Palmetto Country Club, May 9. While the number of alumni participating in the match was low, tlielr enthusiasm w ^ high. Among those Alumni who exercised their skills on the course were BILL MAZANEC '48, GEORGE KENNARD '48, BILL STREETER '54, CHARLIE CALLAHAN '38, CHUCK NACKLEY '60, TOM HIGGINS '48, and BILL RICHARDS '56. 
PAT O'MALLEY *55 was cJiairman of the event and he was asasted by his wife Terry in the planning and the organization. The "non­golfers" enjoyed the pool and patio area while the **Champions" and their guests battled it out on the course. Among those present were GEORGE HERO '52 and his wife Marie. 
We arc proud to report that as of this ivTiting we have over 100 ducs-pa>ing alumni membcis. Ways and zncans are being explored to improve our Club here in the Greater Miami area. 
—L. Nick Muclhaupt '52, Secretary 
HARRISBURG, PA. 

At the Annual Business Meeting a new Club Constitution was presented to the membership. &fembers who assisted the President in the prepa­ration of this document were JOHN BOLGER, BUD ECKENRODE. and DICK CROWLEY. The Constitution was adopted unanimously. 
Under the new Constitution, the following Directors were elected: For 3-year terms: JOSEPH J, ELLAM, John J. Bolger, L. MICHAEL BEKELJA. For 2-ycar terms: FRANK D. GILLIS, 
R. S. *TTM" McGARVEY, WILLL\M J. BONDE. For l-ycar terms: Edivard R. Ecken­rode, JOHN B. GOEDECKE MD, lUchard D. Crowley, Jr. 
Those in the I^ncastcr area arc asked to contact Dr. ALBERT SCHREDER, 320 West King St., Lancaster, Pa. if they have any questions. In the York area, BOB GRAHAM, 513 Colonial Ave., Vor)^ Pa. vnU be happy to be of assistance. 
—Frank D. Gillis '42, Secretary 

. INDIANAPOLIS ^^^ ^ 
The annual Sug Outing June 4 was enjoyed by many Alumni and guests. For the second year, TOM MOYNAHAN '60 ^^•as chairman and host, while BILL SAHM '51 and BOB KANE '50 prepared the charcoal broiled hamburgers. DICK OWENS '50, PHIL O'CONNELL '50, BILL WELCH '57, JIM CROSSIN '60, TOM BOWERS '60 handled various aspects of the event which made it successful and enjoyable. 
Newly elected officers of the Club are Bob Kane, '50, pres.; LEO McNAMARA '50, pres.­elect; JOHN CASTELLI, vice-pres.; JOE NAUGHTON '51, sec; DICK OWENS '42, trcas.; BO CONNOR '49, and TOM MOYNAHAN '60, directors. 
CLAY SMITH '60 is coordinating activities of Club members with the Voluntary Advisor Corps program sponsored by the Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce. 
Rev. JOSEPH P. WADE '60, £s the Club chaplain for this year. —Joseph A. Naughton '51, Secretary 
^^ ^ MUSKEGON, MICH. = 
July 2, though the day \v*as cold, we had a warm and friendly time at our annual (9th) Golf Stag at Pontaluna Country Club. Fr. Dur-bin along with coaches Ray, Schultz & Brown created a fine image for the University and it was a joy to show them off to our many Mich­igan State friends who alu'ays attend and look forward to this affair. They know that it is a good cause because we use the money to help some boy from the Muskegon area get a start at Notre Dame. 
This' year the scholarship went to Mark Witucki (his father RALPH is an N D grad) 
who will be coming down xn the faU. STAN TYLER, along with JIM MORSE, BILL TAR­DANI and the CANNON boyi (BILL and GEORGE) are to be credited with naUo s this year's stag a fine affair (there were over 150). —Leo L. Linch '43» Secrctaxy 
^^ ^ NEWYOMCOTY i 
The following officers have been elected for the coming year: BUD MULVEY '51, pees.; BILL MURPHY '38, vice-pres.; FRANK REIDY '55, sec and JI&l SPELLMAN '41, treas. The Boaid of Directors has established an ofifice in Midtown Manhattan to coordinate Club activities and handle secretarial chores. 
Club members and their guests got together with members of the Class of '68 and nndergraduatcs and their guests for a gala evening cruise June IS. While sailing in the New Yoric harbor and up the Hudson, the group enjoyed a jncnic supper and dancing under the stars to the delightftd munc of FRANCIS WALTHER '25. Jim Griffin '47 was chairman assisted by cochairman TAX SHEP­PARD '69, who took care of arrangements with students on the Campus, and BILL DINGER '63. 
Various committees are hard at work platming 
for coming events: Freshman Send-Off to be held 
at the Waldorf Aug. 27; Annual lUckoff scheduled 
for eariy fall, Na\*y game trip to Philadelphia on 
Nov. 2 and a special printer vacation trip to 
Freeport, Grand Bahama Island in January. 
GORDON FORRESTER reports that the N D 
golfing contingent gave a good account of itself at 
the dcmandi;:g BrookviUe Country Chib, Glen 
Head, LI May 23. Among the many prize win­
ne r were: low gross, HARLEY (77), and FAHEY 
(82); low net (CALLOWAY) HORAN (71) and 
GOODMAN (72) and longest drive, MALLOY 
(260 yards). The last two foursomes were also 
treated to a fine spring shower. 
—Frank J. Reidy '55, Seczetaty 
OMAHA AND COUNCIL BIUFF5 

The ND Club has held elccdons and ottr officers elected for the coming year are as follows: JAMES P. KINEEN '59 pres., JOHN HUGHES '62 vice-pres., ROBERT O. BROWN '55 sec, JAMES BEAflS '63 treas. 
The Club is planning on having monthly luncheons in order to spur interest in actinty among the Alumni in this area. Alumni members will be contacted concerning the date of this first luncheon. 
—Robert O. Brown '55, Secretazy 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. = 

The Notre Dame Club of Rochester installed oew officeis for the coming year May 21: EUGENE 
W. YURGEALITIS '57, pres., 207 London Rd.. Webster 14580. JOHN G. CURRAN '56, vice-pies., 260 St. Gabriel Dr., Rochester 14610. RICHARD 
F. DELMONTE '54, treas., 152 Bientiroad, Fait­port 14450. THOMAS E. PETERSON '63, sec., PO Box 7517, Rochester 14615. 
—Thomas E. Peterson '63, Secretary 
= R0ME = 

Alunmi and all comers are welcome to our Notre Dame hospitality daUy from noon-to-nine at Largo Brancaccio 82 near zail-air terminal and Basilica of St. Mary Major. Tel: 730.002 
Helpful hint: Papal audiences by PAXIL V I N D '60 are held once weekly on Wednesdays at 11 am. He also gives his public blessing each Sunday at noon in St. Peter's Square. 
New Rome resident Bro. ARTHUR LOFTUS FSC MA '33. Departures: Bro. PATRICK HART OCSO '66, Rev. HAROLD RUTHERFORD '61, Rev. XHLTON ADAMSON '62, Rev. MICHAEL LAHEY '64, Rev. KEVIN BUCKLEY '65, aU CSC; Wlbl KEARNS '65, SYLVESTER THEISEN M A '49. 
—Vince McAIoon '34, Secfctaty 
ST. LOUIS = 

The election of officers and board c»f directon highlighted the March 13th board meeting. 
The officers for 1968-1969 are JOHN R. POWERS JR '53, pres.; RICHARD F. ASH '54. sec-treas.; CHARLES H. WITTENBERG '57, vice-pres. activities; WILLIAM OTTEN '62, vice-pres. univenity relations; ALAN FTTZGIBBON '53, vice-pres. publicity. 
The board of directors are: RICHARD ASH '54, JOHN J. PHELAN '56, JOHN BOYCE '59, JOHN S. POELKER, '64, RICHARD CONNORS JR '63, ROBERT McGLYNN '51, JOSEPH F. DWYER JR '58, JOHN R. POWERS JR '53, ALAN FITZGIBBON '53. PETER W. SALSICH JR '59, PAUL GUND '63, RONALD J. 
SZWEDA '61, ROBERT HELLRUNG JR '63, 
CHARLES WITTENBERG '57, JOSEPH LAU­
BER MD '51, JO^PH McGLYNN JR '55, WIL­
LIAM OTTEN '62. 
Jneph F. Dwyer, retiring prcsden^ was named 
Chairman of the Board. 
William Otten '62, assisted by Peter Salsich '59 
and John PoeUter, '64, initiated a scries Con­
tinuing Education programs June 19, at the 
Clayton Inn. Donald Bourgeois, director of St. 
Louis Model City Agency, was the speaker and 
his timely subject was very intresting. This 
program will be continued and a number of out­
standing speakers are being engaged. 
The Summer Golf Outing and Sports Night is 
set for August 12, at Fox Creek Country Club. 
The featured speaker will be a member of the 
St. Louis Blues Hockey team, who will also show 
films of this year's Stanley Cup Playoffs. Rich 
Coimors '63 and Alan Fitzgibbon '53 are in charge 
of this event. Since Gene Fehlig '43 won the 
alumni Reunion golf tournament early in June 
with a score of 65, we have already set aside his 
trophy for our local tournament. 
—Jack Powers '53 president 
_ SAN DIEGO, CAUF. ^^ = 

With Universal Notre Dame night comes the 
traditional change-over of club officers. For the 
coming year the officials of the Club are: CLEM 
O'NEIL "56, pres.; TERRY CAREY '53, vice-
pres.; DICK HESSLING '49, treas.; CLASSEN 
GRAMM '63L, coires. sec.; TIM HINCHY '61, 
membership sec; Monsignor OTT '15, second 
chaplain. 
PVes. Clem O'Neil got the new club year off to a quick start by organizing an imprc«nptu get-together at the Bob Hope fund raising spectacular held in San Diego Stadium to raise money for t«>o new USO centers. The 30 members and wives who attended the show joined with some 52,000 other spectators to give Hope a rousing "well done." 
The comedian, who received Notre Dame's "Patriot of the Year" award in 1962 was joined by dozens of top-name stars in tins charitable effort. 
—Classen Giamm '63L, Corresponding Secretary 
TULSA 

The Club has gone into a slight hibernation for the sunmier months, vacadons being the tempo of activity for our members; however, the officers of the Club meet frequently to plan our summer picnic and the various different activities that will come about in the winter months. The dub has tentatively pbnned, depending upon the ticket ntuation, a Sept. 21 jaunt to Notre Dame when the 'Tighting Irish" will whip the Oklahoma "Big Red"! As one can imagine, this is the b^es t fall festivity that the Club has, and vrc vnH attempt to make the best of this opportunity. —Ray H. Siegfried H '65, Secretary 
= TWIN CITIES, MINN. 

The SUMMA kickoff dinner May 13 iias at­tended by over 200 Alumni and friends of Notre Dame who heard Rev. Edmund Joyce, Dis. Carney, Shuster, and Stewart spell out the goals of Notre Dame in this five*year drive to help Notre Dame. The goal for the Twnn Cities is a modest $140,000 compared to the goals set for other large cities. Vm sure that general chairman Judge JOHN CONNELLY LLB '53 has high hopes that if we all get behind this program we can exceed our goal. WE NEED EVERYONE'S HELP! HELP! HELP! 
June 9 16 couples met for cocktails, dinner, and the hilarious comedy "THE GIRL IN THE FREUDIAN SLIP" at the OM Log Theater. I'd fike to let the 416 couples who received in\*itations but did NOT attend know that they missed a very enjoyable event that did not last late (10 PM). Doe to the very poor turnout YOUR Club LOST ¥. One more couple and we would have put $ into the treasury. It b very discouraging for me to spend considerable time and effort planning, arranging, mailing etc etc and then have only 16 couples out of 432. I realize there are many good excuies but I cannot believe there are 416 of them. 
I'd like to hear from anyone planning to go to the Iowa game this fall. If there are enough of xOy let's charter a bus and forget about the driving and the parking problems. Please drop me a note or give me a call (474-7500). My final thought, n YOU want a Qub THEN PLEASE SUPPORT 
m 
—^Bob Bums '55, Secretary 
ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 
Sports 

MIKE O'CONNELL, COLDS JONES and CHARGES That's the way we do it at ND. 
Passing the Ball to the Community 
There is a big difference between Tom Sinnott, J< ^ Pleick and Sid rubbing shoulders with an All-Amer-Cadett demonstrated the various has­ican and just reading about him in ketbaU skills which were then taught newspapers and sports magazines. in greater detail the following four This difference is what hundreds of days. The players also collaborated (Hi young boys experienced in South Bend a 22-pK^ notebook which was mimeo­this summer. graphed and distributed to all of the 
With the help of the city's recrea­partidpants. tion department, ND's basketball team The 75-100 who turned out for the developed Reach-Up, a unique atii-daily meetings acquired more than letic program which helps youngsters good left-hand hooks. "We tried to have a more constructive summer. impress upon these kids the necesaty Twice a day, four days a week for of teamwodc and the value of an ei­five weeks, ND's assbtant basketball ucation," team capt^ and Ail-Amer­coach Gene Sullivan and his ei^t-ican Amzen lemaiked. "We knew 
man squad made the rounds of the scxne of them couldn't care less about playgrounds and jimior and senior school and so we wanted to point out high schools in the area. They ad­to them that we aren't just basketball players and we didn't just play bas­
vised boys and girls alike on the cor­ketball when we were younger." 
rect form of shooting, dribbling, team formation and other court techniques. ND is thefirst collie in die country 
Each week of activities began with to perform this type of service udi^ a Monday clinic session at which Mike a varsity team. Other programs are O'Connell, Bob Whitmore, Bob being conducted in CSiicago, Ann Amzen, Collis Jones, Austin Carr, Arbw and Columbus, but on an in­
»

ALUMNUS JULY 19i8 AUGUST 
AUSTIN CARR and BOB WHITAAORE Aiming higher than the backboard. 
di\-idual basis. "South Bend has 
needed something like this for a long 
time and I'm very glad that Notre 
Dame took tlie first step," a member 
of the recreation department com­
mented. "You can see how wordi­
while it is by its success." 
Reach-Up started as a program conducted by the freshman team alone. ND coaches encourage their freshmen to attend summer school to lighten academic loads so they are in die South Bend area in the summer­time. 
But tlie varsity didn't want to be left out of tlie action. Bob Whitmore, for example, dropped a good-paying job so he could participate. Mike O'Connell inteiTupted a telephone conversation with Johnny Dee before he finished explaining the program and asked when diey wanted him back. 
The attitude of die young athletes is as good as their attendance (one session included 250). Their eager­ness to help was demonstrated not only in their response to the program but in all the back slapping, morale building and personal attention given in every afternoon and evening session. 
As one recreation department worker remarked, "What's really great is the attitude of these players. You can tell they really want to give these kids something to remember and they're not just showboating around. I'm really glad these youngsters can get the chance to see they are real gU)'S and not just headline names." 
(50 
One of the major factors in origi­nating Reach-Up was the present unrest throughout the country. "The assassination of Martin Luther King and the aftermatli helped to concen­trate our attention," Gene Sullivan commented. "Then came the troubles on many campuses which we naturally wanted to avoid. We wanted to come up with something positive and so we talked it over with our players. The terrific cooperation of all concerned has made it a success." 
"With all this unrest we needed somediing and I tiiink this is a good start," Whitmore said. "I also think there is a gap between Notre Dame and Saint Mar)''s and the South Bend community. I think perhaps this might close tiiat gap." Austin Carr agrees with the need for a program like "Reach-Up" and feels it should be promoted in more cities. "If this program were in my neighborhood, I know I would want to participate in it and I'm sure my friends would too," he said. 
Hall of Fame Taps Kline 
Clarence "Jake" Kline '17 is a Notre Dame tradition. After 35 seasons as head baseball coach, he's not lolling in the dugout yet. In tribute to his years of work in the sport, Kline has lieen named the 31st member of the College Baseball Hall of Fame and is now awaiting his formal induction in January. 
Kline's diamond career at ND be­gan when he was a student In 1915, 1916 and 1917 he won monograms playing third base and hitting well above .300 in all three varsity cam­paigns. His varsity fame continued when he captained the 1917 team which won ten games while losing four. But 1916 was the high point of Kline's beginning baseball days — he slammed three home runs to lead the Irish to a 14-6 victory over Michigan. 
After graduation the Pittsburgh Pirates of the National League made Kline an offer. Although the Amer­ican pirates couldn't get him, the foreign pirates did; he turned down the bid for overseas duty in die US Infantry. He returned widi bat in hand as director of prep athletics at ND for two years. 
In 1922 he played and managed a team in the Southern Minnesota League, moving on to California for the 1923-24 seasons. He spent the 1925-30 seasons playing and manag­ing for various dubs in tlie Utah State League. 
"Jake" finally landed where his real baseball action began. In 1931 he returned to ND as freshman coach and in 1934 succeeded the late George Keogan as head coach. The baseball field is not die only scene of Jake Kline in action. As a professor in die mathematics department, the students say he can really make figures move, too. 
JAKE KLINE anci PART OF CREW 
Still digs the dugouK 

|^5aai!afiga*g>^^i;S3Sffli8a3?>^7fc?jawwgnfj?agig^ 
BILL AAcELROY and RICH DOYLE JAMES DeFILIPPI BILL HURD Look! The Rghting Irish on sea, on land and in the air. 
Skippers Find Smooth Sailing 
Although the ground sports of foot­
ball, basketball and baseball have 
taken the lead in the headlines, the 
ND Sailing Club is giving these land 
fighters a little competition. ND, along 
with the U. of Michigan, represented 
the Midwest at the North American 
Intercollegiate Dinghy championships. 
The Olpnpic-qualifying event was 
hosted by Yale at Branford, Conn. 
June 17-21. 
In tlie first two days of the regatta 

weekend, team races were the main 
event. Skippered by ND sophomores 
Rich Doyle, Marblehead, Mass., and 
Bill McElroy, Cranston, RI, and with 
the help of the ND and Michigan 
crew members, the Midwest placed 
second to the Pacific Coast. They de­
feated New England, Northwest and 
Southeast to win this honor. 
The second part of the collegiate championships saw the Midwest come up with only a 10th place. But Ail-American and team captain Rich Doyle wouldn't let ND sailing fame stop tliere. At the single-handed championships at Branford June 24, Doyle took fifth place and became the first alternate for the July 24 and 25 Olympic semifinals. 
The ND crew members who par­ticipated in vying for the team cham­pionship were Mike Morrissey of Fitchberg, Mass.; Mark Brown, St. Louis; Gerry Mehm, Bridgeport, Conn.; and Gary Ticus, Chicago. 
NDers Aim for Olympics 
When Notre Darners talk about the Olympics, it's not generally, but spe­cifically. The specifics are American indoor record holder (for the 300­yard dash] Bill Hurd and trapshooter James DeFilippi. Both these Notre Damers have worked their way to the Ol^Tiipic semi-finals, hoping to gain a few honors for the home country in Mexico in October. 


ALUMNUS JULY 1968 AUGUST 
Hurd sees going to the Olympic 
games as the greatest goal he can 
achieve as a trackman. The sprinter 
already owns eight ND records and 
recently was named his team's most 
improved player. At the Central 
Collegiate Conference championships 
Hurd won the 100- and 220-yard 
races, the latter in a time of :21.0, 
breaking his ND record by three-
tenths of a second, establishing a new 
Cartier Field record and equaling the 
meet record held by Kansas' Charlie 
Tidwell. 
Hurd's accomplishments do not stop there, however. He was named the 1968 Athlete of the Year at ND— the first time the award went to a non-football player since its birth in 1964. Captain-elect of next year's team, he is a dean's-list student in electrical engineering and an expert jazz saxophonist. 
James DeFilippi, a '68 graduate in marketing, has qualified for the finals in the Olympic trapshooting elimina­tions. As a freshman at ND four years ago, DeFilippi also qualified for the Olympic air sport, but his talent was sidetracked for three years due to shoulder surgery. He is off to a good start again, just waiting for the results of the finals to select a three-man US team. 
Hockey Gets Status and Coaches 
Hockey has finally reached the varsity status at ND after making its way the past five years as a club sport. The 1968 team will not only begin the season with a new ranking but it also will herald the arrival of two new coaches. 
Charles "Lefty" Smith, a ten-year veteran hockey coach at South St. Paul HS in St. Paul, Minn., will act as head coach of the "Irish leers." Smith comes to ND with a successful record in all areas of hockey play, from pee wee teams to senior amateur. 
His ten-year record at South St. Paul is proof of that. His teams won 197 games, lost 68 and tied 11, competing in state high school tournaments seven times. 
A graduate of the College of St Thomas, Smith played collegiate hockey from 1947 to 1951. For 12 years he played as an amateur and on semi-pro teams. His coaching ex­perience also includes teams in the senior amateur hockey league and a junior "A" team for the St. Paul Saints pro team. 
A fellow college alumnus of Lefty Smith will serve as assistant hockey coach. Tim McNeill has a three-year record at SL Mary's Col. (Minn.) of 39 wins and 18 losses. Prior to his coaching position at St. Mary's, he was assistant coach at Cretin HS in St. Paul and Cooper HS in Robbins-dale. 
CHARLES "LEFTY" SMITH New coach for a "new" sport. 
Mr. Francis P. Clark Head, Microfilming & Photo. Lab. 
« 
Memorial Library 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Rear 
UNIVERSITY CALENDAR 
• Aug. 16-18, La\-ni3n's Retreat. 
• .Au?. 22-25, CS.MC (Catholic Sindi-iit Mission Cnisadc). • .Vui;. 31-Scpt. 5, The second spe­cial general conventiim in llie Iils­lorv- of the Episcopal Cliurch with cleric:il and lay delegates from all its dioceses participating. » Sept. G, Spoitswriters Press Preview. .Atliletic and Convoca­tion Center. • Sept. 13-15, Fresh­man Orientation. • Sept. 18^ School begins at 8:30. 
CENTER FOR 
CONTINUING 
ED U CATION 
• Aug. 26-30, United Church Board for Ilonifland Alinistrics. 
FACULTY AND STA FF 
• Re\-. James T. Burichaell CSC, head of tlie llieo!og\- depart­ment, has been designated a Danfortli Associate at tlic Uni­versity. • Dr. George B. Craig Jr, professor of biology*, lias written a cliapter for a new-book entitled Genetics of Insect Vectors of Disease, being pnb­lishcd by the World Health Organization. • Dr. Thomas M. Lorch. assistant professor of Englisii. has been designated a Danfortli .Associate at the Uni­versity, o Dominic D. Lorenzo has been appointed associate di­rector of the UXD Press. • Dr. John W. Mcaney, assistant to the vice-prcs. of academic affairs in charge of edncational media, was elected sccretarv* and executive director of Michiana Public Broadcasting Corp. which plans to operate an educational TV channel for tlic South Bend area. 
GRANTS 
• Aero-space, Dr. John D. Xicolaides, $24,950, Sandia Corp., for special projects in flight dy­namics; $24,330, Naval Weapons Lab., for dynamics and fluid mechanics of free flight; $5,808, .\rniy, for a parafoil wing. • BiQlog\*, Dr. Karamjit S. Rai, S700 travel gran t from the Entomological Society of .-Xmerica to attend tlic XIII International Congress of Entomology in Moscow .Aug. 2-9 and the Inter­national Congress of Genetics in Tokyo Aug. 19-28; $2,800, World 
fSS 

Page Roundup 
Health Organization, for a study of the cytogenetics of the .-\edes acg^-pti mosquito. Prof. Morton S. Fuchs,; $30,552, Public Health Service, for hormonal and gene controlled sterility in mosquitoes. I'rof. Kenvon S. Twcedell, $26,733, Natl. Inst. IleaUh, for tumor induction In embr>'onic and young rana pipiens. • Chemical Engineering, Dr. A. H. P. Skelland, $48,700, NSF, for a study of factors fundamental to the design of mass transfer equipment. Dr. James P. Kohn. $48,200, NSF, for a study of solution thermodynamics and ternar>* liydrtKrarbon systems at elevated pressures. • Chcmistr*', Prof. G. Frank D'Alelio, $40,000, Natl. .Aero. Space .Admin., for heat resistant polymers and di­rected polymerization. Prof Ru­dolph S. Bottei. $20,700. NSF grants for instructional scientific equipment. Dr. George F. Jlcn­nion, $10,000. Eli Lilly & Co., grant-in-aid for research. Prof. Charles E. Brambel, $4,000, Indi­ana Heart .Assoc, for platelet­!eucoc\-Ie aggregation and vascular occlusion. Dr. Jeremiah P. Free­man, $16,215. .American Chemi­cal Society's Petroleum Research Fund, for research on the stereo­chemistrv' of azetidine deamina­tion. • Civil Engineering, Dr. Harr>- C. Saxe, $831,469, Office of Naval Research, for research in militar>- vehicle technology-with an emphasis on deep-sea engineering and high-speed ve­hicular performance; $2,000, Bendi.v Corp., for equipment for structural mechanics research. Prof. Keith A. Yarborough. $2,000. Indiana Heart ^Vssoc, hemolysis produced by extra­corporeal hemodynamics; $8,800. NSF grant for instructional scientific equipment. Dr. Mark W. Tcnney, $21,079, PHS, for extraction of algae by floccula­tive techniques. • Electrical Engineering, Prof. James L. Massey, $25,000, Natl. Aero-Space Admin., for convolutlonal coding for data protection. * History, Dr. Samuel Shapiro, $67,820, OE. for advanced study in history*. Dr. Robert E. Burns, $33,800, OE. for an experienced teacher fellowship program. • Mechanical Engineering, Dr. James Dasclibach, $406, Natl. Safety Council, for a proposal preparation. Dr. Edward W. Jerger, $29,265, Office of Civil Defense, for a professional advisory-center. • Mcdiaev-al Institute, Canon A. L. Gabriel, §35,000, 
Kress Fndt., for microfilming of art treasures of Milan's .Ambro­slana Library. • Metallurgical Engineering, Dr. Charles V. Al­
^^i 

len, $29,927, Air Force Office of Scientific Research, for research on strain cnerg\-, formation and thennal stability of three-dimen­sional dislocation arrays. Dr. Bernard D. Cullity, $5,072, US Atomic Energ\* Commission, for research on magnetoelastic phe­nomena In metals. Dr. Nicholas 
F. Fiore, $32,441, Army's .Aber­deen Proving Grounds, for re­search on material behavior after shock leading. • Microbiologv', Dr. Bernard Wostmann. $79,530. NIH, for rt-search on rearing gnotobiotes on a chemical liquid diet. Dr. Ronald J. Downey, $18,862. NIH, for research in respiratory* enzymes; $11,266, NIH. for control of nitrate res­piration In bacteria, Dr, Thomas 
F. Kellogg, $4,500. lndi.^na Heart .Assoc., for serum chole.sterol lowering by polyunsaturated fats. 
•
 Physics, Dr. Cornelius Browne. $84,000, Natl. Science Fdtn., for capital equipment for new ac­celerator. • Psychology, Dr. Eugene J. Loveless. $8,646. OE. for research on the relation of artistic preferences, conceptual thinking and Intellectual at­titudes. Dr. John G. Borkowski. S3,900. United Cerebral Palsy of Queens Inc., for a study tif verbal mediation In the re­tardate. Dr. Chris F. Anderson, $54,500, NSF grant for instruc­tional scientific equipment. * Sociology-, Dr. William V. D".An­tonlo, $1,525, Catholic Extension Society of Chicago, for an evaluation study of the Catholic extension program: $17.(XK), study of the Cliristian Family Movement; $2,500, Hispanic-American Institute, for a study of conversion to Protestantism among Spanish-speaking Ameri­cans. Dr. Julian Samora, $140,000, Ford Fndt., for US-Alexico border studies. Dr. AVil­liam T. Lin, $31,417. Natl. Inst, of Mental Health, for research training In the social sciences. 

•
 University, $6,000, from the Woodrow Wilson National Fel­lowship Foundation for graduate scliools. 


BOOKS 
• Rc\*. John A. O'Brien, re­search professor of theology*. 
Family Planning in an Explodins Population^ Hawtliom Books Inc., XYC. 
Vf^: 
mm& 
»f^?! 








