The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

THE NOTRE DAME 
Rev. Hugh  O'Donnell,  C.S.C.,  Greets Nen'  Coach Leahy  With  Former Coach  Layden  
Layden Resigns,  Centennial Program  Classes  .  . .  Clubs  
Leahy Signs  Takes Shape  and Other Features  

VoL 19 MARCH, 1941 No. 5 
A. D. MCDONALD. Fetruary 4, 1941 • 
PKESIDENT 

Reverend Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., President, University of Notre Dame, Kotre Dame, Indiana. Dear Father O'Donnell: I am pleased to acknowledge the Trustee's Report, and again wish to say I am sorry I was unable to attend the meeting, owing to 'business vAiich kept me on the West Coast. I note -with interest the progress -.liiich the University has made since our last meeting, and I congratulate your administration on the construction of an addition to .the Chemistry Building and the new Heat and Power Laboratory. I hope it mil be possible for IJotre Dame to carry on the aaditional construction indicated, and to stimulate interest in endovments for foundations of Chairs and for visiting lecturers in the various departments of the University. 
•iifhile in school it vms indeed difficult for me to realize and appreciate that we students paid only tvro-thirds o'f'the dost of our education. JTiiis figure, of (30urse,, is also true of other universities; however, their endovaient is from ten to one hundred times greater than ours. After experience in the business world,.I have found that cold statistics take on a more severe and actual form. I hope tliat some day Kotre 
.Dame's endowment per student, which is now ^315, will be raised to $3,315; and this, is still only one-half of Stanford's figure of over $6,000 per student, which amount I noted in a Press release last week. 
I hope to have the pleasure, at an early date, of stopping off at Alma~Mater on my next trip East. Very tnllyjSr<3rrs,j 
ADMCD*db 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This masazine is published monthlj from October to Jane, inclusive (except January), by th* Unhmsitir ot Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1, 1939, at the FostofSee, Notre Dune, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alunmi Council and of the National Gatholie Alumni Federation. 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, "25. Editor; WILLIAM R. DOOLEY. 76. Manapng Eiilor 
Vol. 19 MARCH. 1941 No.5 
Centennial Plans Take Shape 
Rev. John Cavanaush, C.S.C '23, General Chair­
man, Announces Committees and Some Out­

standing Features. Alumni Suggestions Asked 
(Ed. Note: Aluvmi have been asking viany questions about the Centennial of the University. These have been difficult to ansiuer, but the folloioing official ex­pression from the chairman, Rev. John 
REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, CS.C. Vice-President of Notre Dame, General Chairman o{ the University's Centennial 
/. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, '2-3, is eloquent testimony that the officials of the Uni­versity have not been unaiaare of the imminence of the 100th anniversary. The committees announced are obviously the results of careful planning and a study of qualified personnel. An'd in each para­graph of the plans for the Centennial alumni loill find new vistas of Notre Dame which will arouse varied response. It is hoped that alumni, many of whom have been interested in this great observ­ance, will accept Father Cavanaiigh's gracious invitation to make suggestions for the further enrichment of the cele­bration.) 
(N. B. The Centennial is also bringing the spotlight to bear upon the need ex­isting at Notre Dame for financial sup­port, particularly in the field of endoio­ment. Plans are being formulated to crystallize these needs so that their fzd­fillment will be a logical corollary of the story of 100 years.) 

Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, presi­dent of the University, has appointed an Executive Committee and sub-commit­tees to work under the Executive Com­mittee to handle all arrangements for Notre Dame's Centennial in 1942-43. 
Several meetings have already been held by the Executive Committee and by the various sub-committees, and a general program to express the academ­ic, the religious,-the ascetical, the his­torical, and the recreational phases of the University life has been tentatively worked out. Celebration of the Centen­nial will formally begin with an an­nouncement to be made by the president of.the University at the Commencement of 1942, in which he will ask all the-faculty members, alumni, students, and friends of Notre Dame to unite in a year of special prayer, petitioning, through Our Lady, Heaven's blessings upon Notre Dame and the Centennial year and begging for peace throughout all the countries of the world. This in­tention will be featured in a program of Masses, frequent Communions and Ad­oration of the Blessed Sacrament which is to be observed during the summer school of 1942 and throughout the reg­ular schoolyear of 1942-43. Alumni par­ticipation in this religious program is now being studied. 
The Centennial celebration will for­mally close with a climax of special events at the- Commencement of 1943. 
The academic life of the University 

is to be expressed at various times throughout.the centenary in special sym­posia to be held by several graduate and 
"OLD COLLEGE." ORIGINAL NOTRE DAME Present Miasion Headquartera — Centennial Muaeam 
undergraduate departments of the Uni­versity. Eminent scholars from centers of learning in America and abroad, as well as Notre Dame faculty members, alumni, and students are to be invited to participate in the symposia, and it is. planned to publish the special lectures delivered during the symposia. Invita­tions are to be extended to many learned societies to hold their regular annual meetings at Notre Dame during the Centennial year. The Com­mittee is considering plans to pub­lish an anthology of Notre Dame poetry together with sermons, letters, and brochures of manj' outstanding priests and laymen who have been associated with Notre Dame. A new history of the University of Notre Dame is already in preparation and a moving picture, to portray the modem Notre Dame and the present-day activities at the University, is being filmed. The "Old College" build­ing, first ever built on the campus and now occupied by the Holy Cross Mission Band, will be transformed into a. mu­seum in which many relics of the past are to be placed on display. A series of monographs on priests and laymen who figured prominently in the building of the University is to be published in per­manent form. 
The Committee is considering the pro­duction of several plays of historical significance, as well as a symphony and, perhaps, a cantata, for the Centennial. It is hoped that the Moreau Seminarj' choir, the Glee Club and a group of specially-chosen student voices may be trained into a large chorus for the sing­ing of the special Centennial Mass dur­ing the Commencement of June, 1943. 
Publication of a special Notre Dame prayer book as a means of establishing spiritual union among faculty men, stu­dents and alumni has received the en­dorsement of the Executive Committee. 
Suggestions for alumni participation in the Centennial are solicited by the President of the University and by the Executive Committee. Please send all suggestions to the Alumni Secretary, Notre Dame, Indiana. 

For example, the Notre Dame Club of New York might study possibilities of observing the hundredth anniversary of Father Sorin's arrival in this country, which will occur on Sept. 13, 1941. Then the journey westward — Albany to Buffalo by the Erie Canal; thence across Lake Erie to Toledo, thence by wagon and canal to Fort Wayne, Logansport and Lafayette. These offer very inter­esting beginnings to the official Cen­tennial. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


CENTENNIAL COMMIHEES 
EXECUTIVE COUMITTEE 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, Chairman 
Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C. Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C. Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C. Rev. Kemdt M. Healy, C.S.C. Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C. Rev. Bernard J. 111. C.S.C. Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C. Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C. Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C. Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C. 
Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C. 
Sub-committees to work under the general Executive Committee are: COMMITTEE ON INVITATIONS AND LITERATURE 
Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C, Chairman Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C Mr. Thomas J. Barry Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C. Mr. Henry F. Staunton Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C. Mr. Joseph S. Petritz Brother Justin, C.S.C. Mr. James E. Armstrong Mr. Frank J. O'Malley Mr. Paul R. Byrne 
Mr. Willis D. Nutting 
COMMITTEE FOR RECEPTION, HOUSING AND DECORATIONS 
Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, Chairman Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C. Brother Patrick, C.S.C. Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C. Mr. Clarence E. Manion Rev. John J. Bednar, C.S.C. Mr. J. Arthur Haley 
COMMITTEE FOR ACADEMIC AFFAIRS Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C, Chairman Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C. Mr. Karl Menger Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C. Mr. Henry B. Froning Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. Mr. Edward G. Mahin Mr. James A. Reyniers 
COMMITTEE FOR STUI»:NT PARTICIPATION 
Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C, Chairman Rev. John M. Dupuis, C.S.C. Mr. Frank W. Leahy Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C. Mr. Walter M. Langford Mr. William J. Coyne Mr. Robert H. McAuIiffe 
COMMITTEE ON RADIO AND MOVIES 
Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C, Chairman Mr. James E. McCarthy Mr. Thomas J. Barry Mr. Joseph S. Petritz 
COMMITTEE ON CHURCH OBSERVANCES 
Rev. Kemdt M. Healy, C.S.C, Chairman Rev. William R. Connor, C.S.C Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C. Rev. John P. Lynch, C.S.C. Rev. James H. Young, C.S.C. 
Rev. William T. Craddick, C.S.C. Rev. Michael A. Mathis, C.S.C 
Rev. G. Carlos Hager, C.S.C. Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C. 
Rev. George J. MaiT, C.S.C. Brother Boniface, C.S.C. Brother Joseph Walter, C.S.C. 
CENTENNIAL ALUMNI COMMITTEE 
Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C, Chairman Rev. Bernard J. Ill, C.S.C. Mr. James E. Armstrong Mr. Robert B. Riordan Mr. Paul I. Fenlon Mr. Clarence E. Manion President of St. Joseph Valley Club 
President of the National Notre Dame Alumni Association 
COMMITTEE ON MUSIC AND DRASIA 
Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C, Chairman Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C. Rev. James H. McDonald, C.S.C. Rev. G. Carlos Hager, C.S.C. Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C Mr. Joseph J. Casasanta 
Mr. Cecil Birder 
COMMITTEE ON EXHIBITS Mr. Paul R. Byrne, Chairman Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C Mr. Francis W. Kervick 
COMMITTEE ON HISTORY Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C, Chairman Rev. William M. McNamara, C.S.C -Rev. Thomas T. McAvoyi C.S.C 


Layden Resigns—Leahy Signs 
"Local Boy Makes Good" Applies to Both; Bmcr 
Leaves Splendid Record, Leahy Arrives With Same; 
Notre Dame Wins General Approval in Arrangements 
February was a short month at Notre Dame, but a stout one. 
On February 4, Elmer Layden, LL.B. '25, director of athletics and head foot­ball coach since 1934, resigned his post to accept the newly created post of com­missioner for professional football, at an announced salary of ? 2 0,0 00 a year with.a 5-year contract. 
Frank Leahy, B.S. in Phy. Ed. in 1931, for the past two years head coach of the Boston College football team, was announced on February 15 as the suc­cessor to the post vacated by Layden. 

Alumni hardly require details of the latest Notre Dame shift. Papers, maga­zines, moving pictures hastened through their various channels to elaborate the succinct and startling scoops that rolled from the national radios during this his­toric eleven days. 
Significant to alumni are several points. 
First, Elmer Layden leaves a remark­ably fine record written in words as well as in figures. His six seasons produced 46 victories, 14 defeats, and three ties, against a schedule that gxew in intensity under his guiding hand. Attendance steadily reflected a continued national admiration for Notre Dame football. These are figures, and vital ones at Notre Dame. But even deeper, and more vital, was the widespread good will, the genuine admiration which Layden won 
personally and which Notre Dame shared. 
Old rivalries were preserved in a spirit of healthy competition, tempered with manifest sportsmanship and mutual re­spect and admiration. New competitors appeared on the schedules over the six seasons, and in the several seasons ahead, opening new vistas of interest and influence for Notre Dame and Notre Dame followers. Nor should the work done in his capacity as director of ath­letics, in the promotion of a balanced program of major and minor sports, var­sity and intra-mural schedules, and the general welfare and interests of the students in all forms of athletics, be omitted in this brief summary of Elmer's crowded Notre Dame career. 
part of the Rockne Tradition, is still self-sustaining. In all the speculation of the short interim between resignation and appointment, it was simply a ques­tion of which one of the many outstand­ing Notre Dame coaches would be se­lected. As usual, the Board in Control of Athletics weighed the arguments carefully, if rapidly. 
The result has been followed by na­tion-wide acclaim. 

PVank Leahy was the type of student and athlete in which the campus has always taken particular pride. Success, and he had that in a great era — the '29 and '30 undefeated teams — made him no more known or liked than the period when injuries kept him out of the game. He was a combination of seri­ous student, rugged player, and pleasant companion. Off the field and on the field, his influence was good, and consistent. 
Frank is immediately limelighted by his spectacular success at Boston Col­lege, which was climaxed by his team's victory over Tennessee in the 1940 Sugar Bowl. But the two years of his ascendancy in the Boston school were, characteristically, prefaced by years of hard work on the fundamentals of his profession, first as line coach for Tommy Mills (now director of the Rockne Me­morial) at Georgetown, and then as line coach with Jimmy Crowley, first at Michigan State, and then at Fordham. His success at Boston College, for those who had followed his work, was merely the added revelation of a great person­ality in this young man whose coaching ability had long been outstanding in the major leagues of the sport. 
A five-year contract with Boston Col­lege, signed the day before Elmer's res­ignation was announced, was, by mutual action, set aside in favor of the obvious logic of Leahy's succession to the Lay­den post at Notre Dame. 

Third in alumni interest is perhaps the disposition of the assistants involved in the shift. The splendid staff of Notre Dame men with whom Elmer Layden had worked at Notre Dame was, in the . nature of Layden's move, automatically disbanded in one sense. Their ability makes the nature of this state temporary at most. Joe Boland, '27, for example, has already been signed with Mai Elward as assistant coach at Purdue University, and the next ALUHNTJS expects to an­nounce new connections for the remain­ing members of the staff, Chet Grant, Bill Cemey, and Joe Benda. 
Leahy's loyalty to his own assistants has been a growing tradition in the two 
Second in significance, Notre Dame NATIONAL CHAMPIONS OF 1929 retains its conviction that the Notre 
Back row L to r., Caridao, Brill. Mallma, EM«r. Dame system of football, so integral a Front row, L to r., Conlay, Laaliy, Law, Moya&aa, Causa, TwoiMy, Colri^ 
The Notre Dome Alumnus 
short years at Boston, as has their loy­
alty to him. And the record speaks for itself as to the efficacy of the foursome. Ed McKeever, assistant to Leahy, is him­self a Notre Dame man, 1929-32, who left N.D. to finish his college work and to play football at Texas Tech. Line coaches Johnny Druze and Joe McArdle are Fordham graduates, products of Leahy's own line-coaching of the Blocks­of-Granite era. McKeever reported at Notre Dame on March 1, and Leahy was expected March 7, as this issue of the ALUMNUS goes to press. 
Elmer Layden will continue to occupy his home, under present plans, on Iron­wood Drive, South Bend, until the chil­dren finish school in June. He will open an office in Chicago in April, and Mrs. Layden and the family expect to move to Chicago during the summer. 
Alumni regard the record of Elmer Layden as a personal tribute to his abil­ity and a definite contribution to the athletic and general welfare of Notre Dame. 
By the same token, alumni welcome 

That Boy I a Ufe of St. Gabriel, C.P., and The Adventures ' of Tommy Blake are the two latest products of the facile pen of Brother Ernest. Some of his other books, written over a span of 15 years, are: Religion and Living, Our Brothers, Dick of Copper Cfap, Captain Johnny Ford, and Equipping the Teacher of 
his successor not as a stranger, but as a fellow-alumnus who, like Elmer, will without question, win new personal laurels, and at the same time continue to preserve and to promote the phase of Notre Dame which, more than any other, has won the University a loyal nation-wide and uncounted following. 
The Notre Dame tradition definitely wins. Elmer leaves for new worlds to conquer, but remains a part of it. Frank Leahy comes to it, not a stranger, but himself already a part of it. 

Father O'Donnell's Statement on New Appointment 
"I am grateful to the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics for its patient and painstaking efforts in helping me choose a successor to Elmer Layden. Among our own graduates there are innumerable men well qualified for the position. They haTe established themselves in life by fidelity to the ideals of Notre Dame and the schools they represent. In this profession, as well as in many others, the Univer­sity is blessed with a group of devoted sons. 
"In the selection of Mr. Frank Leahy, of the Class of '31, I feel that Notre Dame has chosen a loyal son, who by past achievement is well qualified to carry on the work of Mr. Layden and his capa­ble staff. Everjrwhere Frank has been, he has exercised a fine in­fluence on his associates, — facul­ty, alumni and students. Modestly but efficienUy he has performed his duties and, like so many others, has always been a Christian gen­tlman. In my judgment, therefore, he possesses the necessary qualifi­cations to direct our program of 

intercollegiate athletics and coach our football team in accordance. with the traditions of Notre Dame. 
"Mr. Leahy leaves Boston Col­lege with regret^ but with the best wishes of his friends there, and I am grateful for the sympathetic cooperation given us by that splen­did institution of learning. The call to serve his alma mater Frank considers an honor and a trust. He recognizes the responsibilities of his office and is willing to do his very best in maintaining the high standards of his predecessors. I bespeak for him, therefore, the cooperation of all at Notre Dame, and her countless friends every­where, in the work that confronts him. 
"We welcome the return of a loyal son and wish him Godspeed in his new position." 
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., 
President of the University 
of Notre Dame. 


NOTRE DAME BOOKS. . . 
Religion, and Boys of the Covered Wagon, which was placed on the state approved list for Oregon last year. Brother Ernest, C.S.C, is teacher of English at Portland Preparatory School, Portland. Ore. 
Brother Hilarion, C.S.C, '38, head of the Department of Art, Cathedral High school, Indianapolis, made 80 pen sketch­es for That Boy! 
Most recent volume of the series of Medieval Studies, now being published by the University, is. lohannis Dominiei Lueula Noetis, a 432-page book, edited by Brother Edmund, C.S.C, '35, profes­sor of classics at Notre Dame, and sub­mitted by him as part fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of doctor of philosophy at the University of Chicago. 
Lueula Noetis, as its latest editor in­forms us, was written by loannes Dom­iniei, O.P., in 1405, to provide a compen­dium of the pro and con on the Classics question. 
A new edition of the book is now nec­essary, says Brother Edmund, because there is available the manuscript sent by Dominiei to Salutati, his disputant. 
. Ill collaboration with some of the leading political theorists of the coim­try. Dr. Waldemar Gurian and Dr. F. 
A. Hermens, of the Department of Politics at Notre Dame, have contribut­ed to a unique publication Introduction to Politics, released recently by the 
. Crowell Publishing Co., New York. This textbook symposium is edited by Boy 
V. Peel, of the University of Indiana, 
"Bloomington, and Joseph S. Roucek, of Hofstra college, Hempstead, Long Is­land, N. Y. 
With Prof. Francis J. O'Malley, Dr. Gurian and Dr. Hermens edit the quar­terly Review of Polities published by the University. Although less than two years old it is recognized as one of the outstanding publications in its field. 
The contribution to the book of Dr. Gurian is "Trends in Modem Politics" and "Parliamentary Government" is the title of the section by Dr. Hermens. 
Twenty-four leading political think­ers contributed to the unique publica­tion. 


UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS . 
CS.C. CHAPLAINS APPOINTED Rev. Robert W. Woodward, CS.C, '28, of the Department of Philosophy, has reported for active duty as chap­lain at Fort Hancock, N. J. He was commissioned first lieutenant in the OflScers' Reserve Corp early in January. Awaiting assignment as an Army chap­lain is Rev. Edward R. Fitzgerald, C.S.C, '30, of the Mission Band. He also received his lieutenant's commis­sion in January. 
Two more members of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross have applied for commissions as army chaplains. They are Rev. George J. Welsh, CS.C, '29, instructor of history at Notre Dame, and Rev. Joseph D. Barry, CS.C., '29, assistant in St. Joseph's parish of South Bend. All will serve under the Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, D.D., CS.C, for­mer president of the University and military delegate in charge of chap­lains. 
J. H. Van Deventer of New York City, president and editor of the Iron Age was a principal speaker at a joint meeting held recently on the Notre Dame campus of the Notre Dame chap­ter of the American Society for Metals, the Michiana chapter of the American Foundrymen's association, the manufac­turer's division of the Association of Commerce of South Bend, and the South Bend chapter of the American Society of Tool Engineers. High officials of the various organizations were among the 300 attending the meeting. 
NEW REGISTRAR Rev. James W. Connerton, CS.C, on Feb. 14 was appointed registrar of the University. 
The announcement of the appoint­ment was made by Rev. Hugh O'Don­nell, CS.C, president, who also granted a leave of absence to Major Robert B. Riordan, registrar since 1930, who on Feb. 22 left for active army duty with the R.O.T.C at Purdue university. 
Father O'Donnell expressed regret at Major Riordan's departure and paid tribute to his work as teacher and exec­utive during the last decade. 
Father Connerton, a professor of music and religion, is recognized na­tionally as an authority on the Greg­orian chant. He is a former superior of Moreau Seminary at Notre .Dame and was for many years director of the Moreau Choir. 
Father Connerton has been serving as head of the University program committee and secretary of the com­mittee on plans for the centennial of the University's founding, to be cele­brated in 1942-43. 
The new registrar is a native of Binghampton, N. Y., and received the degree of Litt.B., from Notre Dame in 1920. He did graduate work at Catii­olic University, Washington, and holds a diploma in Gregorian chant from the Pius X School of Liturgical Music in New York City. From 1931 to 1937 he was superior of Moreau Seminary and in 1938 and 1939 he was master of novices at St. Joseph's Novitiate, Roll­ing Prairie, Ind. 
-• MATHEMATICS SYMPOSIUM Mathematicians throughout the coun­try were attracted to the University on Feb. 28 and March 1 when the fifth annual mathematical sjnnposium was sponsored by the Notre Dame Depart­ment of Mathematics. Prominent edu­cators from the nation's leading univer­sities presented papers on the general symposium subject, "Mathematical Eco­nomics." 
The highlight of the two-day session was the general public meeting in the auditorium of Cushing Hall of Engi­neering on Feb. 28 when Prof. Harold Hotelling, of Columbia University, New York City, lectured on "Problems of Valuation and Rate-making in Public Enterprises." 
Prof. H. T. Davis, of Northwestern University, presented the opening sym­posium paper on "Functionals in the Theory of Economics." Prof. Oscar Lange, of the University of Chicago, followed with a paper on "The Theory of Technolog^ical Unemployment." 
On March 1, Dr. Charles F. Roos, of the Institute for Applied Economics of New York Ciity, talked on "The Dy­namics of Commodity Prices." Prof. Joel Dean, of the University of Chica­go, and Dr. Franz Alt, of the Institute for Applied Economics, also spoke at the morning session. At the afternoon meeting of that day. Prof Hotelling discussed the general topic, "Unexi)ect­ed Effects of Certain Taxes." Dr. Ab­raham Wald, of Colombia Univeraty, lectured on the "Solvability of tiie W«l­rasian Syston of Equations," and Pro­fessor Karl Hoiger, of Notre Dam^ spoke on "The Cieometrieal and Aiifb­metical Determination of the Index of Prices." 
DR. HAAS. DIES Notre Dame lost one of her great men of science when Dr. Arthur E. Haas, professor of physics, died oaa Feb. 20 in Chicago where he had been confined since November as the result of a stroke which he had suffered whfle attending a scientific meeting. 
DR. ARTHUR E. HAAS A Great Catliolic Scientist Is Gin* 
Funeral services were held on Feb. 

22. The requiem Mass in Sacred Heart Church was sung by Rev. Henry J. Bolger, CS.C, head of the Department of Physics, and the sermon was preached by Rev. James H. Kenna, CS.C., of the Department of Mathematics. 
Dr. Haas was bom in Bmenn. form­erly Czechoslovakia, in 1884. He was educated at the University of Vienna, Austria, and was professor of physics at the University of Vienna, the Uni­versity of Leipzig, Germany, and at ttie University of London, England, before coming to America in 1927. 
He lectured at the major universi­ties in the East and Midwest and in Canada, and in 1928 Yale University appointed him associate editor of dibVs Commentary, an important woric in physical science. During 1935-36 Dr. Haas served as visiting professor at Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Me., .where he occupied the chair of the Talfanan Foundation. He joined the Department of Physics at Notre Dame in 1936 as professor of theoretical physics.-. . 
Dr. Haas was noted for his eontri­(Continoed on Face 1() , 

Electrical Engineering Develops 
New Equipment, Faculty and Curricular Changes, 
Meet Modem Challenge to the Profession; Grad­

uates Equipped for New Professional Demands 
Recent years have brought develop­ments in curriculum, staff and physical plant of the Department of Electrical Engineering. 
The present senior class of 16 stu­dents is the first to have the opportunity, as afforded by the new curriculum, to supplement their senior year fundamen­tal course in alternating current machin­ery With courses of either a communica­tions or power nature. Approximately half of the class elected theorj' and lab­oratory work in radio and telephone, while the balance of the class chose courses in advanced a-c machinery, elec­trical design, applications and control, and power transmission. The new sched­ule lists changes beginning in the sopho­more year, to better utilize the increased laboratory facilities in fundamental elec­tric and magnetic circuits. Several new courses offer instruction of a more ad­vanced nature and afford opportunity for more intensive study and laboratory experience. The tendency toward exces­sive student load was relieved by the scheme of alternate curriculums or "op­tions." 
Recent changes in teaching staff date to September 1937, when Larry Stauder, B.S.E.E., Notre Dame, 1929, M.S.E.E., Mass. Inst. Tech'., 1931, was imported from Allis Chalmers Cfg. Co., Jlilwau­kee, where he had acquired three years of experience in writing specifications and making up bids also for the Electri­cal Estimating Division. During these years he had also taught evening classes at Milwaukee Vocation School. His ad­ditional industrial experience includes two years spent on the test course of the General Electric Co. 
In 1938, Al Vitter, '35, left Notre Dame for a lucrative position in his home state of Louisiana and was re­placed by P. A. Guarino and H. E. Elli­thom, both of the Engineering Depart­ment of the Sylvania Tube Co., Salem, Mass. Mr. Guarino, B.S., M.I.T., 1935, came to Notre Dame as a. graduate as­sistant and now holds an M.S. awarded in June, 1940, by the Department of Physics, and an instructorship in elec­trical engineering. 
Mr. EUithom, B.S.E.E. Union Col­lege, New York, 1934; M.S. Harvard 
PROF. J. A. NORTHCOTT Head of the Department of Electrical Engineering 

University, 1935, has likewise pursued graduate work in the Department of Physics and is now a full-time instructor in electrical engineering. 
Dr. J. A. Caparo, '08, E.E., ScD., Ph.D., still the brilliant, admired, genial gentleman of years gone by, continues to carry practically a full teaching load. He has, however, been relieved of the administrative duties of the head of the department which have grown with the physical plant and staff, which he has so ably built up. 
Professor J. A. Northcott, Jr., B.E., North Carolina State College, who has been with the department since 1922, was made Head of the Department in 1939, and has assumed the duties of administration with which he had as­sisted Dr. Caparo. 
The rotating machinery laboratory, located on the second floor of the John 
F. Gushing, C.E. '06, Hall of Engineer­ing, is supplied from a 225-KVA trans­former bank, a 150 H.P. synchronous motor-generator set, and a control and distribution switchboard, and is equipped with motor-generator sets, transformers, electro-dynamometer, and required re­lated apparatus for machine testing. 
Laboratory facilities for circuits and communication courses have been pro­vided by equipping three rooms with benches and apparatus for experimental studies of electric, magnetic, radio and telephone circuits and electronics. A partial, list of apparatus available in­cludes a model magnetic circuit with scale and flux-meter, cathode-ray and electro - magnetic oscillographs, five variable-frequency oscillators, an arti­ficial telephone line, an artificial cable, a wave analyzer, and other items in­cluding a shielded cage and apparatus for high frequency measurements. 
(Continued on Page 14) 

Artificial Telepkone line in communications laboratory View of ganaral aiacliinerr laboratory 


New Ghosts In Washington Hall 
Washington's Birthday Exercises Hold Sentiment and Sig­
nificance-as '41 Class Listens, as Did the '16 Qass; to Tim­
othy P. Galvin; "History Repeats Itself," Is Theme 
In 1916, the Senior Class, observing a tradition then 71 years old, sat in Washington Hall, itself a patriotic ges­ture from Notre Dame to the rich tradi­tions Father Sorin loved and admired. They presented a flag to Notre Dame, as the Classes before and since have done. And, — among them J. Hugh O'Donnell, varsity athlete, former presi­dent of the Class — they listened to the leading orator of the Class, Tim Galvin, deliver the oration of the day. 

Little more than a year later, in the World War, many of the boys were putting into practice the patriotic prin­ciples Tim Galvin had identified with the teachings of Notre Dame. Some of them became names on the memorial tablets of the East door of Sacred Heart Church, traditions of Notre Dame. 
In 1941, the scene looked startingly familiar. Caps and gowns have changed little. On the stage the officers of the Class were gathered, with the orator of the day, William E. Cotter, Jr. (his father of the Class of 1913,) and the poet of the day, Felix Poliagno, and the Class President, Charles Dillon. Some listeners were sons of the listeners of '16. 
And standing out vividly as links with the event being repeated, J. Hugh O'Donnell again was present, this time as the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, receiving the flag on behalf of the University, as Father John W. Cavanaugh had received it from Eugene McBride 25 years before. 
And gathering these threads, pointing out the deadly parallel of the imminence of war, emphasizing the truth and the beauty of traditions and principles that have not changed in 25 years, or in many more years than that, was Timo­thy P. Galvin, guest orator of the day. Tim is now Supreme Master of the Fourth Degree of the Knights of Co­lumbus, that branch of a great Order which stresses constantly the patriotism and the Catholic principles of social jus­tice that have been the theme of Wash­ington's Birthday and its significant ceremonies at Notre Dame from the earliest years of Father Sorin to the present. Hope, expressed and implied. 
moved speakers and listeners, that the unusual parallel of this Silver Jubilee observance would not be carried out to its obvious end—war. 

"The fundamental correctness of the American theory of government stands out today," Mr. Galvin declared, ". . . the beacon light of liberty in a world enveloped by the fog of despotism. Never has there been a time when the rational basis for American patriotism was so clear, so simple, and so all-com­pelling as it is today. 
"Totalitarianism has become an octo­pus that has wound its tentacles around the peoples of many nations. The prog­ress of communistic and other dictator­ial forms of government which make the people the slaves of the state has brought out into bold relief the value of that fundamental doctrine of true Amer­icanism so unmistakably proclaimed in the Declaration of Independence, name­ly, 'That to secure these rights, govern­ments are instituted among men, deriv­ing their just powers from the consent of the governed.' 
"So long as that America can be pre­served, so long can our patriotic devo-. tion rise above sentimentality and emo-^ tionalism and find the basis of its strength and fervor in reason itself, reason which dictates that the govern­ment does not own the citizens, but that the citizens own the government. Dicta­torship most not be allowed to rear its ugly head in these United States." 


E M. MORRIS CIVIC BENEFAQOR 

Ernest M. Morris, '06, a member of the Board of Lay Trustees of the Uni­versity, recently purchased and gave as a gift to the city the South Bend Tippe­canoe Place, famous home of the Stude­bakers. llie home will be used as a school for handicapped children, starting in the fall of 1941. It is estimated that there will be an initial attendance of 200. 
When built, the residence ranked as one of the 12 best in the United States. The property comprises three and one-half acres of ground, and it is estimated that to replace the house and tributary buildings ais they were originally fin­ished would now cost $1,500,000. 
SENIOR FLAC PRESENTED 
Class President Dillon presenU tlie '41 FUg to Rev. J. Hnch O'DoDnell, CS.C, as TimoUiy P. Galvin, gnast orator, observes. 


Forum Plans Are Developed 
Alumn! Reflect Intense Interest in Current Problems From Sound Viewpoint of Notre Dame Teaching; Alumnus Letter Reprinted; Bibliography Suggested. 
Besponse to the request for alumni opinion regarding the holding of some form of intellectual manifestation in conjimction with the 1941 Commence­ment has been encourag:ing. 
As has been the history of similar development elsewhere, the stimulus de­rives from the quality of the response rather than the quantity. The letter from Bill Brown, '29, of Milwaukee, re­produced with this note, is indicative of the reaction the plan has received. It probably reflects many minds, though too few letters have been received in similar vein. The proposed symposium, or forum or whatever it may be titled, is without question a minority project, but nevertheless the conviction grows that it is integral in any alumni re­\inion program, and essential to a prop­er continuing relationship between No­tre Dame and Notre Dame men. 
Emphasis has been placed on the de­sirability of avoiding too philosophical treatment of timely subjects. Alumni thought definitely tends toward the broad fields of politics and economics. 
A program is being planned to em­brace at least phases of these general fields. In the hope of stimulating a sound and constructive discussion, the ALUMNUS is privileged to make a few suggestions for reading to be done be­tween now and Commencement, based on bibliography which has been pre­pared under the general and appropri­ate heading of Catholicism and Human Solidarity by an outstanding professor of philosophy and a g^oup of associates. 
(More detailed bibliography wiU be supplied by the Alumni Office upon re­quest.) 
^ BnuOGRAFHY 
Berle and Means, The Modem Corpor­ation and Private Property (New York: Macmillan, 1932). "An epoch-making book." 
Ryan. John A., A Better Social Order (New York: Harpers, 1935). All of Dr. Ryan's works are relevant to our gen­eral welfare. 
Tawney, R. H., Religion and the Rise of Capitalism (New York: Harcourt, 1926). This remains a classic. 
Michel, Virgil, Christian Social Recon­struction (Bruce, 1937). The best com­mentary done in English on Quadre­gesimo Anno. 
Michel Virgil, Tlie Social Question (St. Paul, Minn.: - Wanderer Press. 1936). Simple and incisive studies in relation to the common good. 
Briefs, Goetz, The Proletariat (New York: McGraw Hill, 1937). The origins and psychology of the proletariat. 
Richardson, G., The ABC of Cooper­atives (New York: Longmans, 1940). Much the best elementary book on co­operation. 
Dawson,' Christopher, Religion and the Modem State (New York: Sheed & Ward, 1935). The danger, in Europe and America, is "the crushing out of religion from modem life by the sheer weight of a State-inspired public opin­ion and by the mass organization of a society on a purely secular basis." 
(p. 57). 
Lucey, Archbishop Robert E., "The Papal Peace Program," Commonweal, Sept. 6, 1940. 
Murray, Rosalind, The Good Pagan'sFailure (New York: Longmans, 1938). Contrasts pagan and Christian in a kind and intelligent way; is good for pagan and Christian. 
Robbins, H., The Sun of Justice (Sower Press, RFD I, Scotch Plains, N. 
J. 1938). An intelligible and quite good statement of the social teaching of Catholicism. 
Sommerville, Henry, The Catholic So­cial Movement (London: Bums, Oates, 1939). 
'.'"^ 
Bill Brown's letter follows: - '' 

"Your idea of Commencement Forum sessions on current puzzlers is tremen­dous. 
"Farmers, miners, manufacturers, transportation men, wholesalers, retaU­ers—in a word, everybody engaged in business, whether as an employer or an employe, and those who attempt to coimsel them, such as lawyers and ac­countants, are hung^ry for guidance these days. They are able to find out for themselves, either by the regular educational methods or by experience, how to do their work here and now, but they are worried about where they go from here; in other words, they are groping around for information not so much on techniques as on aims. It's the old question of why, not how. Thus, a manufacturer or his employes can per­ceive two or three ways in which they could conduct themselves in a given labor dispute and they know how to carry through on either course, but they have an awful time deciding which course to take and are just as likely to give up thinking about it and simply use the trial and error method—which might result in waste or even in dis­aster. 
"My experience indicates that most people have lost faith in the ability of themselves and their fellow men to ar­rive at the right solution of a problem by thinking it through. They no longer believe in anything like objective truth, much less in the ability of men to ar­rive at it by using the ..old bean. This horrible despair runs through every­thing today, so that decisions in almost every field are made on the basis of ex­pediency or some kind of force. 
"People don't believe that principles can be worked out, for instance, for establishing a correct wage, or for de­termining when, if ever, a working man ought to join a imion, or for what causes and subject to what conditions the government may take over private production facilities. . The doctrine is also dismayingly widespread that peo­ple have, no rights which exist regard­less of' what any dictator or any ma­jority says. Hence, proposals to try a scheme regardless of its morality or its impinging personal rights—or propos­als to bargain a question out, making as certain as possible that approxi­mately equal forces are on opposite sides of the table. 
"This, I think, is the worst danger we face today, and plenty of other people feel the same way about it. Personally, therefore, I would like, to suggest for your Forum sessions first a philosophi­cal session on metaphysics and general ethics, directed < to the point that there is objective truth and that men can ar­rive at it, or pretty close to it, if they try. Then there could be a variety of special sessions on subjects of current interest, such as how to arrive at just wages and wage differentials; the pros and cons of unionism; the proper role of government in business; the histori­cal and philosophical background of our Bill of Rights, and present tendencies of the U. S. Supreme Court with refer­

(Continued on Page 19) 


Electrostatic Generator Built 
Capable of Developins 
Eight Million VoKs in 

New Research Project 
Physicists at Notre Dame are rapidly completing an electrostatic generator capable of developing eight million volts in preparation for extending their re­search in atomic disintegration and X-rays. 
What new fields of scientific informa­tion may be revealed by the 20-ton gen­erator in which voltage will be developed under high atmospheric pressure is something about which the scientists are reticent. However, during the last few years, Notre Dame physicists using a generator which developed slightly less than two million volts demonstrated that nuclei could be disintegrated by high speed electrons, and were able also to produce radioactive lead, silver and gold by X-rays. 
Dr. George B. Collins, under whose direction both generators have been con­structed, and his associates plan to con­tinue this same line of research on an enlarged scale. 
The new generator, which will operate under air or gas pressure approximately 10 times as great as that of the atmos­phere, resembles a railroad tank car, and an addition to the University's sci­ence building was necessary to house the 20-ton steel container, 40 feet long, in which the apparatus is contained. One section is moimted on wheels so that the generator proper is accessible for inspec­tion or repairs. Freon gas, the same used in many refriegators, will also be forced into the tank to improve its operation. 
Electrons will be driven by the high voltage down a porcelain tube and pro­duce atomic disintegration and X-rays at a target outside the tank. All the controls essential to the operation of the generator are located in an adjacent room separated from the generator by a wall five feet thick. The doorway be­tween the two laboratories is closed with a three and one-half inch solid steel door to protect the operators from the X-rays. 
The voltage expected when the new generator is placed in operation is some­what less than that produced by the largest cyclotrons, but scientists feel that it can be better controlled. 
The Notre Dame laboratories were the first to show that nuclei could be dis­integrated with high speed electrons. 
This was demonstrated first two years ago in Notre Dame laboratories by Dr. Collins and Dr. Bernard Waldman, fel­low in physics at the University, work­ing with a 1-750,00.0-volt generator. Knowledge of this type is of a very fandamental character and it is planned to continue this work using the very high energy electrons produced by the pres­sure generator. 
This new generator can also be used to produce X-rays whose penetrating power and energy will be unique and these X-rays will thus provide a fruitful new field of research. Lastly, the genera­tor may be used to produce artificially radioactive substances in quantities suf­ficient for chemical and biological ex­periments. 
Initial experiment will be supeirvised by Dr. Waldman as Dr. Collins, who has been granted a leave of abscence, left recently for Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, where he will be engaged on a special governmental re­search project in connection with. the national defense program. 
Civic Banquet for 



Greg Rice 
Alumni and Villagers Cooperate In Event 

BY BOB OVERAKER (In the South Bend Tribime) 
Notre Dame's famous little barrel-chested king of the world's runners at two and three-miles—Joseph Gregory Rice—^was clocked as a champion by approximately 400 persons who attended a civic testimonial banquet honoring the toy bulldog from Missoula, Mont., in the University of Notre Dame's dining hall Monday night [March 3]. 
Tributes from dignitaries of the church, the realm of sports and politics were paid the stocky Rice, who, on the . 
consecutive Saturday nights of last Feb. 15 and 22, lowered his own world narks at two and three miles as thousands 

.cheered as he wheeled around Madison Square Garden's board track. 
Don Lash, one of Indiana University's all-time great distance runners, and now a member of the Indiana state police force, was among those who paid tribute to Montana's perpetual mi^ty mite. Lash, a competitor of Rice during their university years, and now a rival'of his on the board tracks on the indoor winter racing circuit, struck the theme of the night's eulogies to the diminutive ex-Irish star when he said: 
"The achievements of Greg serve as an inspiration to the youth of America, and his brilliant triumphs in establish­ing world marks exemplifies the im­pelling spirit of his alma mater—Notre Dame." 
William P. Mahoney, former Irish tradanan, and now track coach at Notre Diuiielp'pointed out that Rice became a ­champion because he absorbed and lived the philosophy of his coach, the late John 
P. Nicholson. 
"Nick would tell us," Mahoney said, "that an athlete becomes a champion, not because he is a super-man,-not be­cause he is more brilliant than another competitor, but through that rare, quality —^perseverance. , -"'^ 
"And that is why we' are' hionoring Rice, the champion, tonigfat.''He'tQ)3orbed that philosophy. He lived;.th£t$hiloso­phy. And through it all Greg Its hidnUe in acknowledging praise and he is forti­fied with the courage of a lion." 
The deep convictions of his religion were alluded to by Rev. John J. Cava­naugh, C.S.C., vice-president of Notre Dame, and chairman of the board in con­trol of athletics. 
Elmer F. Layden, retiring athletic director and head football coach at Notre Dame, said that Rice's "quiet dignity should serve as an education to every­one." 
From the press Rice heard tributes voiced by James Keams, ['34] of the Chicago Daily News sports staff, and Jack Ledden, sports editor of The South Bend Tribune. 
Mayor Jesse I. Pavey, of South Bend, and Fred L. Steers, [11] of Chicago, first vice-president of the A. A. U., also praised Rice. Mr. Steers explained the voting which resulted in Rice being awarded the James E. Sullivan trophy 
(ContinDed on Page 14) 

»





SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI 
JOSEPH L. APODACA, class of 1930, 
former professor of economics at Notre Dame and now a senior economist in the Office of Foreign Agricultui-al Relations of the Department of Agri­culture, has recently been notified of an honor bestowed upon him by the Repub­lic of Ecuador. By special act of the 
Joseph L. Apodaca, '30 

President of the Republic, Joe has been made a member of the "Society of Ag­ricultural Economic Merit." Accompany­ing the honor is a medal which will be received through the Ambassador from Ecuador, Seiior Colon Elroy Alfaro. However, because of a Federal law which forbids the acceptance of a decor­ation from a foreign country by an employe of the United States Govern­ment, there will be no formal presenta­tion. Joe has been informed that instead, the medal will be entrusted to the State Department for safe keeping until such time as he leaves the Government or is retired. 
Joe has received letters of congratu­lation from Seiiores Alfaro, and Ernes­to Molestina, Director General of Agri­culture of Ecuador. The honor seems to have been an outgrowth of Joe's recent trip to South America as a representa­tive of the United States Department of Agriculture. One of the letters received commended him for "valuable service in promoting improved inter - American economic relations." 
TjiD HARTRICH, '34, who left Notre 
Dame at the end of his Sophomore year, is another of Notre Dame's grow­ing list of men who are making world affairs articulate for America. Preceding Harry Flannery as one of the Voices of CBS in Berlin, Ed won many laurels for himself. While in Paris in 1939 he met an American girl, Eileen O'Connoi-, who was a dancer. Returning to this country in November of 1940, Ed announced his engagement to Miss O'Connor, who had preceded him to America, and they were married shortly before Ed left for the Orient, as a CBS free lance announcer, accompanied by his bride. 
Before his Berlin assignment, from which he returned more or less at the suggestion of his Nazi critics, Ed had been in the Paris office of the New York He?-aZd-rrt6iine, and then became CBS announcer in Finland. Previous experi­ence on Time magazine's London staff, and the Washington staff of the General Press Association, provided a compara­tively brief but rich background for Ed's brilliant work on the air. With the spot­light on Singapore as well as Berlin, Notre Dame men may now hear two familiar voices from these remote points. 
Ed Hartricli, '34 

"PRANCIS R. CAWLEY, Ph. B. Com. 
'33, is another young alumnus in a responsible post. In February announce­ment was made of his appointment as chief budget and finance officer of the production management division of the national defense progi'am of which Wil­liam S. Knudsen is director. Frank, a 
Francis R. Cawley, '33 

magna cum laude graduate, attended law school in Washington where he passed the District bar and in 1940 was made a member of the bar of the Su­preme Court. He entered civil service classification and in 1938 became budget officer for the Rural Electrification Ad­ministration. In,1940 he was advanced and made budget officer for the United States Housing Authority, from which he moved to his present important post. 
Frank was a Wrangler, and was ad­vertising manager of the Juggler. His home was Ottumwa, Iowa. 
(Note: The ALUMNUS derives its Spot­light Alumni more or less from the chance reception of clippings, letters, etc. Alumni suggestions for this depart­ment are most welcome.—^Ed.) 
Progress of the College of Law 
Notre Dame's Law School, Oldest in Catholic Education in This Country, Keeps Pace With Opportunities of the Era 
The publication within a single year of three books by members of the faculty of the College of Law indicates the Uni­versity is maintaining its tradition as one of the leaders in the field of legal education. In Aiigust, 1939, Prof. Clar­ence E. "Pat" Manion, '22, had published his work on the fundamental conception of our Constitution, entitled Lessons in Liberty. In December of the same year. Prof. William D. Rollison had published his already widely adopted Treatise on Wills. And in August, 1940, Prof. James 
J. Kearney, '31, had published A Treat­ise on the Law of Crimes, a complete revision of a text on substantive criminal law which has enjoyed wide popularity for the past 40 years, since its original publication by Clark and Marshall. 
The- College of Law was established in 1869 and is the oldest Catholic law school in the United States. After a brief organizational period the Univer­sity, in 1883, secured the services of the late Dean William Hoynes, or Colonel Hoynes, as he was popularly kno\vn to generations of students and alumni. For approximately 40 years Dean Hoynes guided the College of Law from which were graduated scores of students who by the application of the principles learned at Notre Dame were able to achieve success in their chosen profes­sion. 
Dean Hoynes retired in 1919 because of his advanced age. and Judge Francis 
J. Vurpillat filled the dean's position un­til he retired in 1923, when the present Dean Thomas F. Konop was appointed as his successor. Under Dean Konop's leadership the teaching staff was strengthened by the addition of more full-time professors, and the library fa­cilities were greatly improved. In 1925 the reorganized college was admitted to membership in the American Association of Law Schools, and received an ap­proved rating from the Section on Legal Education of the American Bar Asso­ciation. 
The College of Law was one of the first schools to place in its curriculum a special course in jurisprudence having for its purpose the direct integration of law and philosophy. The Notre Davie Laivyer, the quarterly law review of the University, now under the supervision of Professor Kearney, is devoting much of its space to the development and dis­semination of a Scholastic philosophy of law. Many articles have been printed on Natural Law, and its relation to oth­er legal philosophies, so that it truth­fully may be said that the Notre Dame Lavnjer has become the organ of Scho­lastic jurisprudence in the periodicals of the legal profession. The spread of 
THOMAS F. KONOP 
Dean of the College of Law-Natural Law through the Lawyer has merited the approval of the editorial boards of philosophical journals, and of many jurists, lawyers, and legal edu­cators alike. 
Notre Dame further accepted its re­sponsibilities as a "Church law school" when it created a Bureau of Research in Educational and Civil Church Law. This Bureau, under the direction of Prof. Kearney, has five general objec­tives: first, it supplies to the attorneys for schoolmen or churchmen, of any school or creed, memoranda upon par­ticular legal problems with which they are currently troubled; second, a survey of the legal status of schools and church­es in all the jurisdictions of the United States will be made and published state by state; third, monographs on particu­lar abstract propositions of law pertin­ent to schools or churches -will be pre­pared and distributed; fourth, a digest of every case involving civil church law will be prepared and distributed annual­ly; fifth, classes of instruction in school and church law are being offered to train law students in research in these fields. 

Since the inception of the Bureau in the summer of 1939 Professor Kearney has handled some 30 distinct problems and the Bureau's work has been -widely commended by the Catholic hierarchy in the United States. About 200 schoolmen, churchmen, their attorneys, bar associa­tion committees interested in church legislation, and insurance companies have e-videnced their interest in the Bu­reau's work." 
To date Prof. Kearney has -written and issued three general bulletins in addi­tion to briefs on specific problems for particular attorneys. The three publica­tions of a general nature are: A Memo­randum on the Liability Created by a Mortgage on Church Property which Is Held by an Ecclesiastic as a Common Law Trustee; second. Public Aid for Private and Sectarian Schools; and third, A Digest of Church Law Decisions of 1939. 
To be published in the near future are two more general bulletins. The first -will discuss the Tort Liability of Eccle­siastic Persons, and the second -will he A Digest of Church Law Decisions of 1940. A third publication will be issued be­fore next June hut its subject matter has not as yet been determined. 
To make his faculty an integrated group possessing -widely divergent quali­fications has been the objective of Dean Konop in selecting his present staff. 
Dean Konop was a member of the United States House of Representatives, a member of the Wisconsin Industrial Commission, and a lawyer and educator of many years experience before he came to Notre Dame. 
Prof. Manion has had -wide experience as a lawyer, lecturer, and politician, and is an acknowledged expert in the field of Constitutional Law. Besides his recent Lessons in Liberty, Professor Manion is the author of two history texts entitled American History, and Catholics in our Country's Story, both published by Allyn 

- and Bacon of Boston. 
Prof. Elton E. Richter, '26, has been a professor of law at Notre Dame since 1928, having pursued a short but dis­tinguished career as a lawyer and edu­cator before joining the faculty. 
Prof. Homer Q. Earl joined the staff a year after Professor Richter after practicing law and engaging in educa­tional work. 
Prof. RoUison came to Notre Dame from a position as professor of law at the University of Alabama, by way of Harvard Law School where he won an 
LL.M. degree. He has long been acknowl­edged as an expert on the law of wills, and such recognition has assumed a more concrete form since the publication of his recent Treatise on Wills. This series contains works by many outstanding lawyers, jurists and legal educators. 
Judge John P. McGoorty, Chicago, presides over the practice court and brings to this highly interesting class many years of experience gained as a judge of the Superior Court in Cook County. He leaves his bench in Chicago once a week to "preside" at Notre Dame. 
Prof. John Whitman, '25, has been Li­brarian of the College of Law since 1921, and his ability in the use of law books has been acclaimed by many gen­erations of Notre Dame students. 

Prof. Kearney came to the College of Law in 1938 with a varied experience in the practice of law, in legal education, in drafting legislation, and in legal writ­ing. His recent edition of a Treatise on the Law of Crimes was also published by Callaghan and Company as part of the National Textbook Series. At pres­ent he has been engaged by the National Conference of Commissioners of Uniform State Laws as the expert draftsman of An Act to Make Uniform the Construc­tion of Statutes. 
ELEQRICAL ENGINEERING 
(Continued from Page 8) 

A fifth room is a standards laboratoiy for high-precision measurements and for meter calibration. An additional room is furnished as a shop for use in construct­ing and maintaining laboratory equip­ment and for needs by students electing experimental theses. 
The Engineering Central Library, which is on the same floor as these lab­oratories, provides current issues of 80 leading technical periodicals, as well as over 2,000 volumes of bound sets and reference books in various branches of engineering. 
An innovation sponsored by the stu­dent A.LE.E. membership is a monthly department newspaper, The Eleetrieal Line, created to foster more intimate acquaintance and greater unity of spirit in the department. News and technical contributions from the alumni are so­licited. A limited number of copies of the paper are available to alumni, who might care to make a written request for them. The paper offers facilities for closer contact between electrical engi­neering alumni and the campus with mutual pleasures and gains including placement of graduates (which has been excellent) and placement of alumni who are interested in making a change. 
While considerable department prog­ress has been made, many needs for ad­ditional facilities still exist. The depart­ment is sincerely grateful for gifts of books and apparatus and wishes to ac­knowledge recent additions received from Indiana Bell Telephone Co., West-em Electric Co., Cutler-Hammer, Inc., and Westinghouse Electric and Mfg. Co. 


CIVIC BANQUET RDR GREG RICE 
(Continued from Page 11) 
as the nation's outstanding athlete of 1940. 
At the close. Rice, choked with emo­tion in speaking his thanks for presents and tributes he received during the pro­gram, closed out the affair with a ring­ing salute to his parents and his late coach, Mr. Nicholson with these words: 
"The honors which I do deeply enjoy here tonight are due to the teachings of my mother and father and the invaluable aid given me by most beloved friend, Coach John P. Nicholson. I shall always remember the kindness of my friends and my teammates on the South Bend Athletic Association roster. 

"This occasion tonight I regard as the high light of my athletic career, and the memory of which I shall always cherish. For these tributes and these splendid gifts, I say from the bottom of my heart —^thank you." 
The affair was sponsored jointly by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley and the Notre Dame Villagers. Louis V. Bruggner, president of the Valley Club, served as presiding ofScer, 
. and Paul M. Butler as toastmaster. Ed­ward Meehan served as general arrange­ments chairman. 
A tribute in song and poem was paid to the late Coach Nicholson by members of the Notre Dame Glee Club. 

WRANGLERS ALUMNI! 
The Wranglers, honorary forensic society of the University, is currently in its fifteenth year of existence. During its fifteen years the society has at­tained a position of high regard in the minds of the faculty and student body.. 
Because of the fraternal interests amongst its members. The Wranglers is presently establishing a Wranglers' alumni movement, the purpose of which is to keep all Wrangler alumni informed as to the operations of the organization. All members of the Alumni of the Uni­versity who during their years as stu­dents held active or honorary member­ship in The Wranglers are requested to forward their mailing addresses to John 
M. Hennessy, 211 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
•ROCKNE' SECOND IN GALLUP POLL 
"Knute Rockne," film depicting the 
life of the famous Notre Dame football 
coach, in which Pat O'Brien starred, re­
ceived the second highest number of 
votes in a recent survey published by 
the Institute of Public Opinion, of 
Princeton, N. J. 
The premiere for "Knute Rockne" was held in South Bend on Oct. 4. O'Brien played the role of Rockne. Other stars included Gale Page, as Mrs. Rockne; Ronald Regan, as George Gipp; and Donald Crisp, as Father Callahan, who preached Rockne's funeral oration. 
The six leading choices, in order of rank, are as follows: 
1.
 "Boom Town." 

2.
 "Knute Rockne." 

3.
 "Rebecca." 

4.
 "Northwest Passage." 

5.
 "Strike Up the Band." 

6.
 "The FighHng 69th." 



The pictures selected by the public as the best, are, with one exception, the pictures which were most successful at the box-office. The exception is "Knute Rockne" which, although second in the institute's survey, was not among the top leaders in terms of box-office re­ceipts. . . . 
"Knute Rockne" and "The Fighting 69th" were more popular with men than with women. 
MEN 
1.
 "Knute Rockne." 

2.
 "Boom Town." 

3.
 "Northwest Passage." 

4.
 "The Fighting 69th." 

5.
 "Sea Hawk." 

6.
 "Strike Up the Band." 



Two Priests 
of Congregation, 
Fathers French 
and Folk, Die 
Two men whose careers added great­ly to the development of the Congrega­gation of Holy Cross, died within a few days of each other at the opening of March. 
One was Rev. James French, C.S.C., oldest member of the Congregation in the United States at the time of his death, on March 6, a man who had served in many capacities in the Univer­sity, and in the other phases of Holy Cross activity. He was buried at Notre Dame on March 8. 
The other was Rev. Paul Foik, C.S.C, Ph.B. '07, for many years librarian at Notre Dame (1912-24), who, in recent years at St. Edward's University, had become one of the great Catholic histor­ians of America. Father Fpik died on March 1. He was buried at Notxe" Dame 
. on March 7. 
Father French was vice-president of the University from 1893 to 1905 "£tad he was assistant superior general of the A Recent Photograph of Fatlier Fmc h Holy Cross order for approximately 20 years, until 1926. 
he served in the mission field. Father When a novice. Father Frendi helped Founder of the mission band in 1912 fVench had held many important posts, dean brick for the new administxation and its superior most of the 18 years including high executive offices at Notre building of the University in 1879, after Dame. From 1931 to 1939 Father French the main bnflding had burned to the was chaplain of St. Joseph's Hospital, ground. where he endeared himself to thousands of the city's sick through his ministra­
The retired priest was president of 

tions and friendly visits during all hours 
St. Joseph college, Cincinnati, from 1883 
of. the day and night. He has resided 
until 1887,.. returning for another term 
since then at the Community Infirmary 
in 1905-06.' He became superior of Holy on the Notre Dame campus. 
Cross Seminary at Notre Dame in 1887, holding that office until 1893. From 1893 
Ordained in Cincinnati, Ohio, 56 years 

untfl 1905 he was vice-president and 
ago. Father French celebrated his sacer­
director of studies at Notre Dame. From 
dotal golden jubilee at Notre Dame on 
1906 until 1926 he "was assistant supe­
May 25, 1933. His first mission band 
rior general of the Holy Cross order. 
which he founded included in addition to himself the late Most. Rev. George J. Finnigan, D.D., bishop of Helena, Mont.; It was at Father French's suggestion 
Very Rev. James W. Donahue, former that perpetual adoration for University 
superior general of the congregation; students began in the Lenten and May and Rev. Wendell P. Corcoran, now seasons and he constantly encouraged pastor of St. Joseph's church in South daily Communion for students. He is na­
(ContiniKd on Face 19) 

Rev. Paul J. Foik, CS.C. Bend. 
butions in the field of atomic theory, quantum chemistry, relativity, cosmol­ogy and natural physics. He is best known in the United States for his standard texts in physics which have been published in ten diilerent lan­guages. He was a member of the na­tional physics fraternity, Sigma Pi Sig­ma, and also of the International Acad­emy for the History of Science at Paris. In 1937 he was elected a fellow of the American Physical society, an honor conferred for contributions to the ad­vancement of physics by independent, orig^inal research, and shared by only 100 of the society's 5,000 members. 
Dr. Haas leaves his wife, Emma Bea­trice (Huber) Haas, and two sons, Ar­thur and George. 
An exhibition of water colors by Pro­fessor Francis J. Hanley of the Depart­ment of Art is being shown in the Wightman Art Galleries in the library on the campus. The nucleus of the pres­ent show has been exhibited recently in Cincinnati, and a few other pieces were shown in a national exhibition in Wash-



STUDENT NOTES 
DOWN SOUTH IN DIXIE 
The University debate squad will "cover Dixie like the dew" come April when they leave for an extended tour through the southland under the leader­ship of William J. Coyne, director of debate. First stop for the Wranglers is at the University of Alabama on April 

11. Georgia Tech, Emory University, University of Georgia, an d Xavier (swinging back into the north to dock at Cincinnati) in turn will be foils for the Irish affirmative and negative teams. Proposition for discussion is: "Resolved: That the nations of the western hemi­sphere should form a permanent union." Personnel of the affirmative squad lists John O'Loughlin, Bangor, Me., and Mil­ton Williams, Elkhart, Ind. The negative team is composed of William Meier, Faulkton, S. Dak., and Thomas Grady, Farmer City, 111. 
WAR ON FILTH 
Students of the University are organ­izing to combat the evils of pornographic literature—filth in print. At a campaign conference with Rev. John P. Lynch, C.S.C, prefect of religion, Walter Bren­nan. New Rochelle, N. Y., was named chairman of the student commission for decent literature, and Robert Nenno, Buffalo N,. Y., chairman of the vigil­ance committee. The vigilantes will keep 
The Notre Dame Alumnus' 
ington. D.C. Many of the sketches were 
done at Professor Hanley's summer 
studio in Matunuck, B. I. 
Old gold and blue, the colors of the University, will be used for the 1942 Indiana automobile license plates. The figures will be in blue on a gold back­ground. 
Gen. Umberto Nobile, famous Arctic explorer and head of the Department of Aeronautics at Lewis Holy Name Insti­tute in Lockport, III., gave a series of six lectures to jimiors and seniors in the Notre Dame Department of Aero­nautics recently. 
Gen. Nobile is former director of aeronautical design for the Italian gov­ernment and was also deputy chief of Soviet air construction by permission, of the Italian government until recalled in 1936. In 1928 he was in command of the airship Italia when it was forced down in a flight over the Arctic. He and his crew were rescued by a Russian ice breaker. 
By Robert Towner, '42 
a watchful eye for first signs of the enemy. This committee, chosen for the task of calling at various newsstands in the Bend to get acquainted with dealers and ask their cooperation to make the clean reading drive a success, includes William P. Mahoney, Notre Dame track coach, as advisor. 

NOVENA FOR PEACE A novena to Our Lady for peace opened Feb. 2 on the campus in Sacred Heart church with a solemn high mass celebrated by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University. The novena intentions were announced by Rev. John P. Lynch, C.S.C, prefect of religion for "peace for the world and for our country; for divine guidance for our country and for its president and statesmen, and for each student against death or any injury to body or soul if (God forbid) war comes." 
INTO MILITARY LIFE 
Inducted into the United States army, naval and air forces, seven Notre Dame men left for these various branches after completion of their semester work. Sol­diers, sailors or flyers are: Patrick Fin­neran. South Bend, Ind.; Joseph Mul­queen. Council Bluffs, Iowa; Arthur Madalena, Westfield, Mass.; Clarence J. Ryan, Oak Park, 111.; Charles P. O'Neil, New Rochelle, N. Y.; William Hampel, Mt. Vernon, N. Y.; and, Craig Simmons, Los Angeles, Calif. 
STUDENT BOOK TASTES 
College students no longer shun so-called "heavy" reading in favor of the story and novel, says Paul R. Byrne, '13, Notre Dame librarian. 
The change in undergraduate reading tastes, Mr. Byrne hastens to add, how­ever, is not due to a more scholarly and ambitious group of men, btit has been brought about by the publication of many excellent books on sociology, mathematics, biography, reli^on, phy­sics, philosophy and technical subjects during the last decade. 
These works are written in a mod­em interesting style that appeals to the reader from a recreational point of view, in addition to carrying out the primary purpose of instruction. 
The Notre Dame main library has 165,000 catalogued books used mainly by students on the colleges of Arts and Letters and Commerce. The colleges of Science, Engineering and Law have separate departmental libraries. 
Since 1930 the total circulation for the main library has increased 23,183 per year although University enroll­ment has remained nearly constant. 
Some of the new types of books said by Mr. Byrne to be responsible for the trend are Man the Unknown, by Alexis 

Carrell; How to Read a Book, by M. J. Adler; American Doctor's Odyssey, by Heiser; Fun of Photography, by M. Sca­cheri; Sorroiv Built a Bridgej by Burton; Your Wings and Through the Overeast, by A. Jordanoff; Pll Take the High Road. 
by Wolfgang Lang-Wiesche; Yoic and Heredity, by A. Scheinfeld, and Microbe Hunters, by P. de Kruif. 
"As for the old-line books," Mr. Byrne said, "Mark Twain hae retained his pop­ularity down through the years. Thack­eray and Stephen Crane are also well-liked, and Sigrid Undset, Norwegian Nobel prize winner who at present is on a tour of the United States, is a great favorite at Notre Dame. Historical novels, too, are popular among the fiction readers." 
Current favorites in modem fiction among the students are Lewellyn's How 
Green is My Valley, Alfred Noyes' No 
Other Man. and Feeney's Foii'd Better 
Come Quietly. 
Non-fiction works holding undergrad­uate attention are Van Wyck Brook's two books. Flowering of New England and New England Indian Summer; South of Yesterday, by G. Mason, and Patient's Dilemma, by Cabot. 
BY JOSEPH S. PEmnZ. '32 

ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
George E. Keogan is a man to over­come obstacles. You may have read the recent issue of Collier's in which appears Kyle Crichton's interview with Keogan, decrying the monkeying that's been done with the rules in the past several years. You are undoubtedly aware that during the holidays a trip to the Mayo Clinic resulted in George being ordered to restrict his activities. You may or may not know that since then Keogan has been ordered to bed in St. Joseph Hospi­tal, South Bend, for complete rest. We are happy to report that rest, the ab­sence of visitors by doctors' orders, and Keogan's fighting spirit have combined to improve his condition considerably. 
It has long been established that, rule changes or no, you have to get up pretty early in the morning to beat George Keogan as a basketball coach. He's re­vamped the offense as required, and the Irish have registered victory after vic­tory. Last year's team was weak at cen­ter, you will recall, and both Capt. Mark Ertel and Rex Ellis were graduated. Larry Ryan was moved into the start­ing lineup at guard last year. Capt. Eddie Riska led the team in scoring the past two years. George Sobek was one of the most productive sophomores to come to Notre Dame. 
While recent teams have adapted themselves to the new race-horse game to set all sorts of new Notre Dame scor­ing records, Keogan's teams have been primarily sound defensive units. This year, Frank Quinn, Indianapolis junior who failed to get a letter last year, has stood out all year as a fine defensive center, always asking for "the toughest man" among the opposition. 
Sobek hurt his knee badly in a minor game last year, and he re-injured it early this season, losing much of his effectiveness on offense, but Jim Games has come along as a junior to replace him on many occasions when points were needed. 
Ryan indicated that he could not stand the strain of 40-minute games because of a serious automobile acci­dent just before he entered Notre Dame, but Cy Singer, who is being ranked with Johnny Moir as a fancy shot, was there to take over. Bob Smith, a steady, cool, smooth-working senior, handled the other guard post with Singer—and Ryan was brought in when extra speed and punch were needed. 
Fine jobs of replacement, these. But then Capt. Riska suffered a broken left foot in the overtime victory at Syracuse and he was benched for a month. In came slim, curly-haired Charley Butler, a sophomore from Chicago, who prompt­ly got 17 points in helping the Irish end Michigan State's six-game streak and win their own sixth straight. 
But the biggest replacement job of . all came when Keogan was benched himself. He called on Ray Meyer, cap­tain of the great Moir-Nowak teams of 1936-7 and 1937-8. Meyer has not ex­actly replaced Keogan, but he took charge for the two Eastern trips. Then, when George was ordered to bed follow­ing the shock of his sister's death in Minneapolis, Ray took active cha]^, getting his instructions almost daOy from Keogan's bedside. 
This combination of obstacles would floor an ordinary team for the count, and the 1940-41 Irish looked no better than ordinary at the start of the season. 
But the record, as of this writing, reads 15 victories and 5 defeats. At one recent stage of the campaign, Notre Dame scored 11 straight victories over the pick of the nation's teams. 
Reviewing the early season hastily — the Irish won their warm-up games from Monmouth, Kalamazoo, and Illinois Wes­leyan before dropping a 44 to 43 deci­sion to Wisconsin's new Western Con­ference champions at Madison. Michigan fell, 37 to 27, but Illinois, aided some­what by some of the most unusual offici­ating we've seen in some time (covered in an earlier issue), brought about a 41 to 39 overtime victory for the visitors. Northwestern sunk the Irish into the depths with a 46 to 36 New Year's Eve victory. 
All three defeats, as recounted last month, came when the Irish folded in the stretch. They folded again against Kentucky, but didn't collapse, winning 48 to 47 from the Southeastern confer­ence runners-up. Wabash was next, and Notre Dame had them under control all the way. Butler, the eventual stumbling block, came up even with the Irish after 10 minutes of the second half, but Notre Dame's 10-point spurt paved the way to a 45-35 victory. Penn couldn't come close, losing 57 to 37. Two days later, the Irish dashed Syracuse hopess, 54 to 49, in overtime. Art Pope, No. 3 rig^ forward, sinking the tying basket irith 10 seconds to go. In this game; Meyer showed his ability to think under fire by lining up the seven men not in action and sending them into the game one by one every time the whistle blew in the last minute of play, thereby stopinng the clock and saving valuable seconds. It is reported that Charley Oljeaiy, sab guard, was in three times for a total of eight seconds. Trainer Eugene (Scnp­iron) Young called it the ^^atest game he ever saw. 
The best Michigan State team in re­cent years, with six straight victories in the book, fell, 46 to 39 when Charley, Butler, as recounted, burned up the court. A sub-par Marquette team fell, 58 to 40, a few nights later, wiOt Sobek getting 14 points. Sobek .and Canies both got colds, so Pope took over, get-. ting 12 points in the first half to lead the Irish to an easy 46 to 38 victory over North Dakota. Came the letom game with Northwestern, and Batter and Ryan, Chicago boys, took chaise, getting 10 and 9 points, respeetivdy. Ryan turned in the best game of ids career. 
Sobek, having tested his bad knee at considerable length, cut loose for 15 points against N.Y.U., and Singer col­lected 14—six of them on thriee cbnsee­utive looping hook shots—to stand oat in a ragged game which the Irish took; 41 to 38, from practically the same team that won 18 out of 19 last year. 
Riska rejoined ..the' squad for the Georgia Tech game, which honesty, forces OS to report was won largely on superior strength of numbers. Notre Dame used 11 men to Tech's five in the first half, coming off the floor with a two-point edge. The valiant Ydlow Jackets used only six men in the first 37 minutes, but they were in the ball­game until the last few minutes when Notre Dsme pulled away to win, 53 to 
42. In case you haven't been counting, that made it eleven strait^ 
Then, signs of raggedness around the, edges having manifested themsdves previously, the Irish really had that baid night at Butler, the Bulldogs winning, 54 to 40, when Notre Dame converted only 6 out. of 18 firee throws, blew at least a dozen lay-in shots, one of.them 

when there was also time to miss a follow-up before the Butler defense arrived on the scene; and allowed the Indianapolis lads to score 18 points in the last five minutes of the first half for a commanding 33 to 15 lead. 
Keogan said he felt very fortunate about winning from Michigan State at Notre Dame by a 46 to 39 margin, so he can't be too down-hearted over the 44 to 35 defeat administered by the Spartans at East Lansing just before we went to press. Notre Dame was in the game until the last five minutes, according to witnesses. And, according to the box score, the Irish had 15 free throws to shoot, making 13, while the Spartans dropped in 20 out of 32 ^ t tosses. State outscored Notre Dame, 12 field goals to 11, and led 17 to 14 at the intermission. 
Games remained with Marquette at Milwaukee March 8 and with Detroit at Detroit March 12. It should be noted that each of the last four games closed the opponents' schedule, away from Notre Dame at that, so the boys have been and will be running into a high brand of inspiration from said oppo­sition. 
TRACK 
That the pre-season enthusiasm and confidence of William P. (T-Bone) Mahoney, scholar, lawyer, gentleman, and successor to the late John P, Nichol­son as Notre Dame track coach, was not misplaced was demonstrated conclusive­ly when the Irish defeated Marquette, 79 to 25, in a, dual meet March 1. The Irish ended a string of dual meet victor­ies which had gone successfully-through most of three seasons and 15 contests. Pre-viously, Notre Dame opened the sear son -with an 84 to 40 victory over Mich­igan State, performed creditably in the Illinois relays, and lost a tough one, 56 2/g to 47 l/g to Indiana at Bloom­ington. 
It was in the Marquette meet, how­ever, that the Irish surge really started, and our prediction is that it -will con­tinue through much of the next three ­seasons, inasmuch as sophomores have dominated the scene to date. 
Perhaps the best way to describe the season thus far is from the point of -view of individuals. Francis James (Jim) Delaney, San Francisco sopho­more who must be classified among the smaller stars in this event -with his mere 200 pounds and 6 feet of height, "caught" on his final toss against Mar­quette for a. new meet, gym, and all-time Notre Dame indoor record of 51 feet 1% inches. It was the best mid-western mark of the year up to this writing, and if memory serves correctly, the best throw ever made by a midwest­em sophomore. Delaney had pre-viously set a meet mark of 49 feet against Michigan State, and had defeated Archie Harris of Indiana at a fraction over 49 feet in the dual meet, following Harris' -victory in the Illinois relays. 
Wally Ziemba, husky tadde, was a shade under 46 feet in the Marquette meet, even though he's still throwing line drives. He is expected to approach 50 feet before the season runs its course. Cliff Brosey, who last year erased Don Elser's indoor and outdoor Notre Dame records, is shelved -with & sore leg, but prospects for next year, and possibly the 1941 outdoor season, are for three 50-foot -tossers! 
Keith O'Rourke, another spoh froin 

Warren, Ohio, flopped out of the Michi­.gan State meet -with a mere 6 feet 3% inches in the high jump, but the next week he found himself to defeat Michi­gan's Don Canham and to set a new Illinois relays mark of 6 feet 6% inches. Canham is the defending Big Ten champ. O'Rourke sprained his ankle in his record-breaking leap and was held to 6 feet 2 inches against Indiana and to 6 feet against Marquette, both good 
enough to win. 
Bill Nicholson, South Bend, son of-the late Notre Dame coach, set a meet record of 7.7 seconds for the 60-yard highs the first time he ran them in com­petition, against Michigan State. He was second against Indiana, and first again against Marquette. "Nick" has twice finished in ties for second in the high jump, and got an undisputed second against Michigan State. 
Blanked by Indiana's superb milers, nevertheless Oliver Hunter HI, Erie, Pa., and Frank Conforti, Bronx, N. T., are two more sophomores to watch. Hunter ran 4:22.4 against Michigan State, and the duo set a meet record in exactly the same time in their dead heat against Marquette. Hunter has been under 9:30 for the two-mile, and he's developing fast. 
Wilbur Biordan, a game, husky young man from Sioux City, Iowa, came down from 2:01.1 against the Spartans to a sparkling 1:57.8 against Marquette in the 880-yard run. He, too, is a sopho­more. Tony Maloney, another Bronx soph, shows promise in the two-mile, ha-ving run approximately 9:40 already. 
The combination of Hunter, Oliver, Maloney, and Conforti was nosed out by Indiana's distance stars in the four-mile event at the Illinois relays, Indiana lowering the meet record to 17:34.8. The Irish ran no worse than 17:36 as compared -with the Notre Dame indoor record of 18:30.2 by King, McFarlane, Roberts, and Young in the 1934 Butler relaj^ We confidently expect the new foursome, barring injuries and conscrip­tion, to break the old mark by a full minute one of these days, possibly at the March 15 Butler relays. 
Then there's Jay Gibson, sophomore sprinter from Mishawaka, who defeated Bob Saggau and Bill Buenger to win the 60 in 6.4 against Michigan State. Saggau later pulled a leg muscle, but he -will be back in action soon. Buenger nosed out Gibson in 6.3 at Indiana, but Gibson won against Marquette, again in 
6.4. He took fourth in the Illinois relays. 

Ezra Smith, Glendale, Calif., and Jack Wietoff, Mount Vernon, N. Y., have been flirting with the 13-foot mark in the pole vault, -winning their share of points. Dick Tupta, sophomore half miler from Cleveland, Ohio, has had trouble shedding pounds, but the stuff is there 
— and it -will come to light before the season has passed. 
Bob Garvey, Ashtabula, Ohio, broad jumper; Gene Fehlig, of the St. Louis £:olfing Fehligs in the 440; and Bill Dillon, Harbor City, Calif., hurdler, are other newcomers who -will bear watching. 
All of which, apparently, doesn't leave much room for the veterans. And ap­pearances in this case, are correct. There's Ray Roy and George Schiewe in the quarter-mile, of course, and they're developing to new peaks. Schiewe ran an unofficial 49.3 -with the mile relay team aaginst Marquette. Roy and Schiewe each ran under 50 flat -with the rday, only to Jose to Indiana. Roy has been clocked in 50.7 from a stand­ing start—against Marquette—and he's the defending C.C.C. champion, ha-ving taken the title at East Lansing last year. He was second to Gene Littler of Ne­braska in the Illinois relays 300-yard dash. 
Capt. Joe Olbrys, half-miler, took third in the Illinois relays 1000-yard run, and he placed in the 880 against Michigan State and Marquette. Joe Pro­kop is coming along fast in the low hurdles, ha-ving won against Marquette and placed against Indiana. Frank Sheets, hardest-working man on the squad, won the broad jump against Marquette, taking second against the Spartans. Ed Sullivan and Herky Bere­olos are still nipping in there for places in the shotiiut. Bill Bogan refuses to be deterred in the two-mile, and hell come into his own yet. Saggau and Buenger should have their greatest seasons, de­pending on how Bob's bad leg comes along. 
FENCING 
We have been pleasantly crossed up by Prof. Walter M. Langford, coach of fencing and an essentially honest man. Prof. Langford professes to have been crossed up himself by the gratifying deeds of his swordsmen, who, he said, looked like the least promising crop in years when the season opened. Inasmuch as he predicts great success for the ten­nis team, which he also tutors, we have no choice but to take his word when he says he didn't expect his hearties to break even in fencing. 

Things have reached such a pass now that the Irish can't have a losing season, and they may come up with one of the best in Irish annals. They have won 5 out of 6, with 3 left. A 15-12 victory over Wisconsin came as a surprise, and it wasn't until the next week's 17-10 victory over Chicago that Langford re­alized he really had something. It was Chicago's first dual match defeat in 25 starts since Notre Dame turned the trick, 9 to 8, in 1936. The Irish were also the only team to tie the Maroons during that five-year span. Two victories over Marquette, a 14-13 decision over Michigan State to revenge partially last year's two defeats, and a 15-12 loss at Ohio State tell the story. 
Euss Harris, Little Rock, Ark., senioi:, has won 14 foil bouts while losing 4, and he has taken 11% points in epee while dropping 4% for a total of 25% points to 8%. The all-time Notre Dame single-season record is 38% victories to 13% defeats, by Kevin Kehoe of the 1936 team. Harris has a mathematical chance of bettering this mark. Capt. Jack Gaither, Louisville, Ky., has won 21 bouts, losing 13. He got 14 victories and 4 defeats in foil. Mike Humphries with 12 victories in 18 sabre bouts. Herb Melton with 9 victories in 17 sabre bouts, Lou Peck with 6 out of 9 in sabre, Jim Corbett with an 8%-8% split in epee, and Frank Veit with 4 victories in as many attempts in epee have stood out thus far. 
The record: 
Notre Dame. 15; Wisconsin. 12 
Notre Dame. 17 ; Chicago, 10 
Notre Dame, 19%; Marquette, 7% 
Ohio State, 15; Notre Dame, 12 
Notre Dame, 15%: Marquette, 11% 
Notre Dame, 14; Michigan State, 13 

As a- part of the national defense pro­gram to train skilled workers. 111 em­ployees of South Bend manufacturing firms are taking advanced courses in the night school at the University. The courses have been recommended by the Association of Commerce manufactur­ers' division, which is aiding in the project to assure an adequate supply of skilled workers. 
TWO PRIESTS DIE 
(Continued from Page 15) tionally known among the clergy and hierarchy for his work in the Priest's Eucharistic Congress. 
He was bom in St. Joseph, Mo., in 1859 and entered the novitiate in 1878 after completing his college course. In 1900 he received his, M.A. degree from the University. 

Father French is survived by a cousin, Mrs. Cecelia Fitzpatrick, his only living relative, whose home is in New Castle on Tyme, England. 
Father Foik was librarian at the Uni­versity from 1912 to 1924 and super­vised the layout and arrangement of the Lemmonier Library on the campus which was opened in 1917. As chairman of the library section of the National Catholic Educational association, he was largely responsible for the organization of the Catholic Library association, and was a founder and chairman of the editorial board of the Catholic Periodical Index. 
During 17 years of service as librarian at St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas, where he was transferred in 1924, he became known as one of the outstanding authorities on the history of the southwest. He was for many years 
• a member of the historical commission of the state of Texas and as chairman of a commission for the study of the Catholic history of Texas he had pub­lished two volumes of a seven-volume project dealing with the early history of Texas and the influence of the early Catholic missionaries and explorers. 
Father Folk's work in the field of history brought him official recognition from the governments of both France and Mexico. He was made an honorary member of historical societies of both nations. 
His written works in addition to the seven volumes on which he was working include Pioneer Catholic Jotimalism, Martyrs of the Southwest, Early Catho­lic Explorers of the Southwest, and Fray Juan, de Padilla. 
Father Foik was bom Aug. 14, 1879, at Stratford, Ont., Canada. He entered the seminary of the Congregation in June, 1901, and made his final profes­sion in July, 1905. He was ordained to the priesthood on June 30, 1911. He received a Ph;D. from the University in 1907 and from the Catholic Univer­sity of America, Washington, D. C, in 1912.. 
He is survived by a sister, Mrs. Ger-• trude E. BuUaxd, of Detroit, Mich. 
Burial was in the Community Ceme­tery at Notre Dame. ' 
COMMENCEMENT FORUM 

(Continned bvm Fase 10) ence to £he protectian of such rights; and so forth and so on. 
"Yon mig^t plan all of these sessions with a view to having at the end of them another general session with the announced purpose of drafting a plat­form, such as might be announced by the National Association of Manufac­turers or the United States Chamber of Commerce, setting forth in precise defi­nitive terms, instead of in vague terms or platitudes, the respective rights of owners, employers, workers, govern­ment, to dividends, interest, profits, a fair price, a fair wage, taxes, etc., and some of the chief rights and duties aris­ing out of the essential relationships between the aforenamed parties. 
"Yon might even have a session on America's position among the family of nations, considered from all angles, re­ligious, ciiltural. economic, in the lig^t of which could be discussed America's duty to intervene or stay out of the war—or in case it is unhappily too late for that, war aims could be dis­cussed. 
"Anyhow, your idea has limitless pos­sibilities, and. I am certain that the alumni will be anxious to see what you have ready for them at commencement." 
DEAN JACKSON HEADS A. I. E E. 

Prof. D. C. Jackson, Jr., dean of engineering at the University, February 26, was named chairman of the newly-organized South Bend section of the American Institute of Electrical Engi­neers in the group's first meeting held in the Hotel LaSalle. 
This section was organized because many of the A.I.E.E. members in this area, who have been attached to the Fort Wayne, Ind., section desired more activity. Engineers from Porter, La­porte, St. Joseph and Elkhart counties, Indiana, and Berrien county, Michigan, 
•will
 be eligfible; 

K.
 L. Hansen, Milwaukee, Wis., con­sulting engineer with the Hamischfeger corporation and. vice-president repre­senting the Great Lakes division of A.I.E.E., traced the history and develop­ment of welding as an industry at the organization meeting. 


Officers of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, a companion or­ganization headed by Prof. Carl C. Wil­cox, head of the mechanical engineering department, attended the meeting and proposed joint meetings with subjects common to all for the near future. Prof. Wilcox gave a brief talk. 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
« 

think we had a good idea on favors for the dance 
— we gave a copy of Harry Sttthldreher's book, "Knute Rockne AIl-American,'* to each couple. 
JiH Drislane had some tough luck skiing — we hope his broken leg is mended by this time. 
Our coaching stars of this area. Larry O'Neill, ChadE Riffle and Dan Canha, were on hand to greet Frank Leahy of Boston College when he arrived in Albany to confer with officials from Notre Dame. We wish Frank luck in his new position as coach of the Fighting Irish. 
Ed Kenefake. 

CHICAGO 
Georce A. Brantiffam, *29, Soite 4000, 1 
N. LaSaUe St. President; Franklin E. Doan, '29, 314 17th St., Wilraette, III., SccreUry. 

Opus 1, Movement 1 (Andante Cantabile) of the Chicago Club's new deal is herewith presented. Rule 9 of Dooley's Advice to the Shopworn club journalists specifically states that the embroidery can be left out So to the nub of things: 
The old order changed on Jan. 20 when 150 members of the club, and their guests, met at the Knickerbocker hotel for dinner and the in­duction of officers. Tom Donovan made his last official gesture by presiding and acting as toast­master. Typical Donovan bon mots bounced light­ly all over the place, and. Tom put a graceful ending on what has been a very able year, thanks to his guidance and capacity for work. Jack Clark pranced through the yearly financial report with a nice regard for uneven figures, against a back­ground of "hear! hear!" and something faintly resembling cat-calls. 
George Brantigam, one of the original '29ers, was safely escorted to the presidential chair and gave immediate assurance that he will fill it amply. George thanked the outgoing officers for their work in behalf of the club and promised the members a year of energy and activity. John Dergan, who was for-Brautigam-before-December, sat quietly at an obscure table, pulling strings. 
Ihe nkeeting was enlivened by Harry Scott "who came up from Indianapolis for the occasion and added to the reputation he has built up with Notre Dame men. Harry was his fast-moving, quick-shooting self, saturated to the eye-brows with quips and anecdotes. His dialogues brought down the house. Pat O'Malley. fast becoming one of Notre Dame's favorite adopted sons, had to grab a plane for New York and regretfully passed up his date, with the Chicago club. 
Joe Boland commuted in from South Bend for the evening and passed along salient facts re­garding the *41 football season and his high hxspG^ that, despite the schedule, the draft and a dearth of exi>erienced linemen, all would work out well. Bill Blake, a native Chicagoan and an intimate of many of the members of the club, gave a few highlights of the 1940 Northwestern game and explained some suggested rule changes for this fall. Bill refereed the N.D.-N.U. game last fall. 
Sim Gallaxher, new general manager of the Cubs and one of Notre Dame's original news butchers, sat at the festive board and made some remarks about his new duties. 
John Kanaley and John Tally, outgoing and in­coming honorary presidents, dined affably to­gether and were presented to the club. 
The 1940-1941 Alumni Board 

Very Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C, '99, Notre Dame, Ind.  Honorary President  
Ray J. Eichenlaub, '15, Columbus, Ohio  President  
Clyde E. Broussard, '13, Beaumont, Texas  iJFirst Vice-President  
Thomas F. Byrne, '28, Cleveland, Ohio  Second Vice-President  
James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Ind.  Secretary-Treasurer  
William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind.  As^tant  Secretary  
Francis H. McKeever, '03, Chicago, 111.  Director to 19JU  
Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, 111  Director to  1H2  
John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich.  Director to 19^3  
William J. Mooney, Jr., '15, Indianapolis, Ind.  Director to 1944  

Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, Chicago, HI Joseph H. Mulqueen, '40, Notre Dame, Ind. 
BOSTON 
Charies BL GalUslier, *38, 588 Adams St., East BGIton, Haas., President; John H. Blorphy, '32, 718 Adams St, Dordiester, Blaas., SecretaiT-

On Feb. 9. 2.000 people gathered in the Statler Hotel to pay tribute to Frank Leahy and the Boston College team. The entire Sugar Bowl committee was on hand to present the "sugar bowl." It remained for Fred Digby, sports editor of the New Orleans "Item-Tribune," father of Fred Disby* '39, and a member of the committee. to furnish the surprise of the evening when he presented to Frank an 11-year-old football auto­graphed by Rockne, his coaching staff, and his national championship team of which Leahy was a member. The ball had been given Mr. Digby by Knute Rockne, the resulting financial proceeds to go to underprivileged children. It ^vas unclaimed after three numbers had been drawn, and for the past II years it had been in the safe of Mr. Digby's paper. Coach Leahy and his team had made such a fine impression in New Orleans that it was decided he should be presented with the ball. 
Among the guests at the head table was an^ other Notre Dame man, Joe Sheeketski. whose Holy Cross team very nearly upset Boston Col­lege's hope for an undefeated season in the final game of the schedule. 
John H. Murphy. 

BUFFALO 
John H. Ttavers, Jr., '33. 191 North St, President; Liond V. O. Smith, '33, 424 Main St, Secrctaiy. 

On Jan. .31, we started the New Year by electing a new set of ofTicers and Board of Gov­ernors, as follows: president, John H. Travers, Jr.; ^nce^president, Midiael Sheedy; treasurer, Martin J. Trarers; secretary. Lionel V. O. Smith; governors, Joseph J. Dnnn, RnsseU W. Kinr, John C. McKcndry, Jr., Thomas Condon, Paal Sheedy, Nonnan Anderson. Martin A. Ryan, Carl Na^d and Frank Reppenhagen. 
Ralph F. Passonno, a newcomer to the club, was also at the meeting, as was Bob Moore. We are sorry to say that we will lose the splendid services of Bob Naxel, at least for a year, inas­much as Bob has enlisted in the 209th Coast 
Ex-Offlcio Director to 1941 Director to 1941 

Artillery Anti-Aircraft Searchlight Division, and will soon be leaving for Savannah, Ga. Jim Moulder, one of our most active members and the one who handled our successful ticket cam­paigns, is already in active seni'ice with the 102nd Coast Artillery Anti-Aircraft at Fort Ed­v.-ards, Mass. Dan Sheedy is now addressed as SNAP, all of which means Student Naval Air Pilot, and is stationed at Floyd Bennett Field, Brooklyn, N. Y. "We are sorry to see the lads go, but Uncle Sam has gained a trio who will do a real job for him. 
Don Love is in line for congratulations on two scores, as the proud father of a son, and, second­ly, Don is now a partner in the architectural firm of Backus, Crane and Love. 
As his first official act Jack appointed Tom Condon and Norm Anderson as co-chairmen of the annual Easter dance, while Chodc Nayel will be general chairman of Universal Notre Dame Night 
Russ Kins ^vas to go down the middle aisle about Feb. 10 and honeymoon in Atlantic City before bringing the bride to Buffalo. 
Ralph Else was in from Auburn for Christmas and again later. Lionel V. O. Smith. 
CAPITAL DISTRICT (New YoA) 
Midbael J. Lcding, *33, 1047 GiUe^ie St , Sdienectady, President; Edwin W. Kenefake, '34, 401 Union St , Sdienectady, Secretaxr. 

We must start off with a salute to Bill Casazza, our worthy vice-president, who was married a couple weeks before Christmas. Loyal Notre Dame man that he is, he was able to conclude his honeymoon in time to make the Christmas Dance. 
Belated as it is, the news of our Christmas Dance is too good to keep. We held it in Sche­nectady this year for the first time in the history of the club. Nine^ couples attended and the club made a nice little profit Many fellows con-. tributed greatly to the success of the dance by having parties before the dance. Some of those who entertained were: Jade Casazza, Frank VM­ly, Ray Sdaeck. Joe Bncci, Blike Ledinc. £ d Kenefalce and John Holland. The latter is pre ^ dent of the newly-organized campus club. We 
Despite the fact that new leadership always starts out with the burden of bavins to do every­thing bigger and better than it has ever been done before, the new officers are resolved to in­itiate just that type of activity. To that end they met with the board of governors on Feb. 3 and discussed plans for the coming year. President BnmtiKmm's policy will be to develop and round out the fixed features which have become a part of the Chicago club's annual calendar, and to inaugurate an innovation or two. 
The Victory Singers will give their annual 
concert in March. Universal Notre Dame Night is 
coming up. and something new in the way of 
symposiums (or does Father Hebert insist that we 
call it symposia?) is jelling under the watchful 
eye of Art Conrad. 
Frank Dean. 

CINCINNATI 
Jowph P. Kinneary, '28, 1717 Femwood Ave., President; Frank I. Broeman, ex. *35, 364S Middleton Ave., SecrcUry. 

Perhaps this effort should be entitled "1940 in Retrospect," for, as you well know, Cincinnati did not come through with a single letter all year. Our silence should not be construed as in­activity down here on the tawny Ohio, — rather, we had a full and successful year. I might add that the absence of any letters all year was en­tirely due to your present correspondent. With that explanation out of the way. here is 1940 in a flash-back. 
The January dinner meeting held at our per­manent headquarters, the Kemper Lane Hotel, which hostelry is efiiciently presided over by our fellow member, Frank Sweeney, was devoted principally to electing Don Dixon, president, with Bob Chenal, vice-president, Francis Lowney, treasurer, and Joe Kinneary, secretary. Of course, the secretary was instructed at that time to get a monthly news letter to the alumni secretary. As you know, he failed spectacularly. 
The next event of any importance on our an­nual calendar, was the Universal Notre Dame Night celebration, which was held at the Hamilton County club. Thirty-five of the good brothers rallied around for this party. In addition to tun­ing in on the national broadcast, the boys were busy othenvise in the early evening. Around about midnight, everyone did full justice to a sumptuous buffet supper. 
Our mid-summer outing was held at the Mi­ami Boat Club at Miamiville, Ohio, on July 25. We had a gratifying turn-out of approximately 25 members, which we considered rather good, in view of the absence of members on vacations. Indoor baseball, horseshoe pitching, and shuffe­beard were the order of the afternoon. Ray Eich­enlaub, our national alumni president, very oblig­ingly drove do\vn from Columbus, and was very busy all afternoon meeting the boys and remi­niscing with Joe "Chier* Meyers. Dinner at 7 finished off a very pleasant day. 
Our regular schedule of monthly dinner meet­ings was resumed at the Kemper Lane Hotel on Sept. 24. At this meeting, plans were discussed for the obsen'ance of the premiere of the Knnte Rockne picture, which was scheduled to open in Cincinnati the middle of October. Flans for co­oiierating with the local Warner Brothers office never, materialized. 
The next dinner meeting was held on Nov. 
19. At this meeting, plans for the Christmas fiance were discussed, and at the dinner meet­ing held on Dec. 10. our plans for the holiday dance were perfected. 
As for the Christmas dance itself, too much credit cannot be given to John Brodberger, Frank BrocBian and Paul Jansen, the committee in charge, for throwing a swell party. The affair was held at the Hamilton County Country Club. The cocktail hour was enjoyed from 9:30 to 10:30, with dancing following. I am sure the older-boys were acutely conscious of their advancing years, as they watched the undergrads and younger alumni go out of the world in an assortment of rhumbas. La Congas and what will you have. In short, it was a whale of a party. To everyone's amazement, the committee in charge reported a nice profit on the party, which was placed in the scholarship fund. 
At the next regular monthly meeting, Jan. 14, 
at the Kemper Lane Hotel, the following ofHcers 
were elected for 1941: president, Joseph P. Kin­
neary; vice-president, Paul Jansen; secretary, 
Frank I. Broeman; treasurer, Kenn DaBrvl; 
trustee, Donald E. Dixon. Jack Brodbeirer, Jan­
sen and Broeman were appointed a permanent 
entertainment committee. 
Joe Kinnesiy. 

CLEVELAND 
Cornelius J. Raffing, *32, Bnlklcy BMc-* President; Dr. Myron E. Crawford. '32, De­troit-Cook BIdg., Lakcwood, Secntaiy. 

In the biggest piece of concerted Catholic action since Notre Dame played Navy in Cleve­land stadium, the local K. of C, with the support of other city organizations, is bringing to town a collection of the nation's fastest track stars. The CIe%*eland Arena will be the site of the races that will be staged for the benefit of the local Catholic Youth Organization, on Sunday, March 16 and the local N.D. club has promised its support. It is hoped, as this is written, that Greg Kice and a relay team from the University can participate. 
You men of Notre Dame in Cleveland. Youngs­town, Akron, Canton, Lorain, Elyria, and all neighboring towns will receive no engraved in­vitations to this event but your attendance is earnestly requested and desired. If you don't be­lieve what I have said about this meet, stop in and see Al Grisanti and let a lawyer tell you. Incidentally, if you're in town for the meet and looking for friends or classmates, see Grisanti or Rohr, and tell him for whom you are looking. 
To pass on to purely personal palaver, let me give you the births of recent note. To Jskn (Sarge) Raleigh, a boy; to Jim UprichanL a daughter; and to Nick Raffing, a daughter. On which side of the Dixie highway will be the Cleveland power in 1960 7 
Art Carey was home from Washington F.B.I. duties for the first time in two years — I didn't see him but Grisanti did. 
Bob Hackman has reported for Marine training already, and Jack Collins has said "goodbye" to 7.000,000 friends and constituents in the past three weeks. 
Jim Callahan has Sears-Roebuck all agog after winning innumerable prizes in the Cleveland lamp sales division. 
Hugh Ball is back Cutler-Hammering prospects after recovering from a very severe attack of black cigar peritonitis which required surgery and seven week's hospitalization in Buffalo — but where was Johnny Perone? 
Monday luncheon attendance has increased pro­portionately with the weeks but special commen­dation should be given Ed Gannon, Jin Dvbhs, Jr., Collins, both Tom Byrnes, Ball, Raffing, Gene Kane, Gerry Miller, Van Rooy, AI Lmwtmi, Alorrissey, Upridiard. and Becrar. 
Word has reached here that Ckre Carey has received a nice promotion with J. C. Penney Co.. and that after a short vacation in Florida, he will take'up his duties in California. 
Two week-end Retreats were sponsored by the 
. Cleveland dob at the St. a*«ig«i«— Till—1 HooM on conaeeatiTt •weA-toAa aariy ia Mndh. Pioraoted by a eoonnttee headed fay P M Pi«i ­dntast, this yeai^s Retreat morement showed tha same increase in attendance that has OMiriBsd eadi preee^ng event. 
President Saffiac has a committee under A * 
direction of Tem (Telephcme) Byiae at Woeic on 
plans for the local bbservanee of Uibhrertal 
Notre Dame IHflftt. That note alone dioold aarve 
to inform all that the Cleveland l»arti^Mtiaii -wiD 
be of the best. It also insures this tiKNH^: 
"How long will it be before a kroop eomes 19 to 
help those men who have given so modi of thdr 
time to this ehib? Whoe are the later day Ganay. 
Kane!, Lereaz, Bahr, Raffiar. CiKai, Yaa Bosor, 
Byrae. tefall, Byaa. Marterstedc, Lawtaa, Kad­
dat% and Beidya? 
Aw, pot this to bed. Deelcyl Mfte Grawfei4. 
DETROIT 
Jay tu Lce^ *12, 1717 Natiaaal MaA WMK^ 
Pnsid^t; metar J. Schaebcr, "U. Sit 
Federal Blds^ Secretary. 

The clob held its January meeting on the 27th in the Fort Shelby hoteL Approadmatdy 50 were on hand. The featore attraction, was newsrcels of the collapse of the Tscoma bridge^ - the naval engagement between the English and WrtnA fleets at Oran and a travelogue of Ireland. . ^ . Need I say 'vdiidi was best recaved? Fiaak Me-Gianis "angeled" the movie arrangements,. and very special th ^ wer^ too. 
Saw Jae BfcCahe, (not Chicago's demon re­porter), Jeha lisaglias, Eraie La Jeia and Kay Ifoly; Art Cnaia (who is diairm'ing the dalTs annual retreat . . . and why don't TOU sp ! . . .), Jmtk Brtea and Ted Fdisua, Jea SM^^ • Dee Whafca. Jeha Bicaaaa» Hawaid Bscdriasr* and Hank Aadrrsea 
President BiBy Lee officiated as Gas Dsrals was re-presented with the tnvby given him fay the Notre Dame (Hab of Detroit at the ITniversitar of Detroit football hanqnet in Deconber. • 
The-club took this oecaaon to commend those yonnger members of the ehib who wore recoil­sible for putting over the elob^i Christmas dance in so fine a fashion. Beading £rom left to rl^it; the members of the dance committee were: Bad DeHayes, Jim Ibare, Ted Tieter. Bfl Bifahma, DidE Fefey and Chainnan George Msirili, 
A great many of the familiar fsee^ were miss­ing. However, the officers prondae to get evciy* one out on one of these forthcoasing Big Evaats .. . OR ELSE! 
Vic ScaasinMr'* 

ERIE, PA. LM J. Braner. *M. CM Bcmir IMw> PiwHiMt; Ibitfai A. Ot^r. t*. "39. tXt 
W. list St, Secntaiy. 

Lc« BnMScr ia the new president of the Erie Club, and MaHfai Blertlfr is the new seereCur. aeeordine to a note from Den Naitaa. 
GREATER LOUISVILLE (Kmtadr) Lads J. HsBintarli. ex. 17, GkMaa fcir. htHnOt. VnMtmtt DaiU W. 
• ex. 11 . S1 7 Ckciakce Parkway. Zmlnmi, SeeictaiT. 
The encasement of Wss Honiea SdH» and Chailes Hairaw is annoimeed I T her pannlaL Ihe weddinx date is Kay 10. Charley is a neaater of the class of '38 and is at present wWi Ua father at the plant of KHeridi ft Bradaby. .&­mons in tl» sportins world as makers of liaastiaB bats and sporting goods. 
Hie lAuariHe-Notre Dame ehib will nndouttad­ly feel the loss of Bak Wifta. 'ST. Notre Dua* 
footballer of several seasons back, who has re­moved to Baltimore, Md., where, it is understood, he has a better position \vith another firm. AVe'll miss you. Bob, but here's srood luck! 
Chariey Schwmrtzel, *37, has been sent to Wil­
mington. Del., by the duPont Company, for 
which he works. Hurry back, Charles. 
DaWd W. Baird. 
MINNESOTA 
Frank Mayer, '27, Korthem States Power Co., St. Paal, Prendent; George McDermott, 714 New York Bldr-, St. Paul, Secretary. 
The local club gave a luncheon at the St. Paul Hotel on Feb. 8, in honor of Harry Stuhldreher and Don Bfiller who visited the Twin Cities for the purpose of presenting the Rockne Memorial Trophy to the University of Minneapolis for hav­ing the best college football record for the past ten years. The affair was exceedingly well attend­ed, and among the guests were: Professor Dickin­son of Illinois; Major Griffith, commissioner of the'Western Conference; Frank McCormick, ath­letic director of the University of Minnesota; and ' Father Bernard Conehlin of St. Thomas College. 
This meeting was held during the week of the St. Paul Winter Sports Carnival and King Boreas VII and Kathleen, his Queen, and their attendants honored our club and its guests by attending the luncheon. Just prior to the arrival of King Boreas. Fire King Vulcan (the sworn enemy of King Boreas) rushed in upon our gath­ering and with fire and sword collared our hon­ored guests and made them pledge their word (duress it was) that they would aid Vulcan when he and his followers would storm the King's beau­tiful Ice Palace at Lake Como. For promising so to do Knightshoods were conferred upon Harry StiAldreher (Sir Hobby Horse), Don BXiUer (Sir Rocking Horse), and Frank Mayer (Sir Maver­ick). This was indeed a. hilarious get-together, and some mighty good stories were told by Don and Harry and our other guests, including his Royal Highness. 
Our next meeting will probably be on Univer­sal Notre Dame Night. Gconce Thomas McDermott. 
MILWAUKEE 
Earl HcCarron, '25, Home Owners Loan Corp., President; John E. Clander, '34, 1219 
W. VUet St., SecreUry. 
Tlie big news of the month concerns the Com­munion Breakfast held at the St. Charles Boys Home which is so well conducted by the Holy Cross Congregation. The affair was catalogued as our Memorial Mass for the late Rer. Joseph Borke, CS. C About 35 braved a severe blizzard to attend the Mass said by Rer. Vincent Thilman, 
C.S.C. Brother Vcnard, C.S.C., was very gracious and &er\*ed a breakfast that was both delicious and generous. President Earl McCarron intro­duced George New, an internationally-renowned etcher and engraver, who delighted us in his in­terpretation of how it's done. 
Many boys were noted in viewing the crowd, for-instance: Frank Barke and son, John; Dr. Dnndon, now located in a new office downtown; Boh Lntz and Earl O'Brien, who were hand in hand; Charley O'Neill, who is moving into a new home; Dr. Frank ScUneter, John Corrigan, Bob Schmidt, Frank Eaton, Jim Wheeler and AI Sdiamadier. Always attending Notre Dame af­fairs is John Boinski, probation officer of the juvenile court, who had Coach "Yegg" Dermody as his guest. Our officers were out in force, as well as many others too numerous to list. 

John Bru t is working harder in designing buildings ance the new husky baby boy arrived. '^Jiin EtHnxer will have become the husband of Miss Betty Stanton by the time these lines are 
printed, for the big eyent is scheduled for Wash­
ington's Birthday in St. Mary's church at £bn 
Grove. 
We hear that Dr. John Carey has moved from Milwaukee to upstate Sheboygan. John Brammi. came up from Kenosha recently. He played a prominent part'in a fraternal event. 
Jean LaBonle seems to be rushing around town. His connection with a Letter Service outfit keeps him thin. His former roommate. Bob Beck, who had the same physique in Walsh Hall days, now carries twice the number of pounds quite grace­fully. 
They say, over the luncheon table at oar Thursday noon gatherings, that Don Gottichalk is stud>-ing to attain some enviable position in the Navy. Few of the boys are known to be in the Service. 
Jim Rank seems to be so busy in the sale of diamonds and pearls, and in the affairs of the Junior Chamber of Commerce, that he cannot get around to lunch. There are always some of the boys at the Maryland Hotel on Thrusdays. 
Paul Brut. 
MOHAWK VALLEY 
Lester Loricr, '26, 604 N. HadiBon St.* Rome, President; Edward J. Sweeney, *39* 1415 Aliller St., Utica, Secretary. 
Les Lovier, our president, secured 60.tickets for the Syracuse-Notre Dame basketball game heW in Syracuse. From this section attending the game were Cacorge Ricfater and his wife^ "Vin. Fletcher, Frank Donalty, Charlie Hitzelhcrccr, the writer, and many others. 
The club is having a meeting to discuss ways 
and means of trying to bring the Glee Club here 
on its eastern trip this spring. Les Lovier prom­
ises to have some interesting news for us in that 
regard. 
' Ed Sweeney. 
NEW YORK CITY 
Warren S. Foffel, '30. 12 E. 4Ist St., Pieii­dent; Timothy J. Toomey, '30, Royal In^M­nity Co., 150 WiOiams St.. Secretary. 
The club opened the 1941 season at the Commo­dore Hotel on Feb. 4 when officers for the cur­rent year and members of the Board of Governors were introduced to the 125 "clubbers" present. 
Bob (No ITiird Term) Hamilton, '28, retiiinjr prexy, turned the meeting over to Warren (Bar­rister) Fogel, '30, new skipper, who presented the new officers: Joe Friel, '29, and JaliB A. (Cross-County) Hoyt, Jr., *33, vice-presidents, George Rtrfirs, '34, treasurer, and "yours truly," secretary. Much heckling believed to be conung from classmates, was heard when it was an­nounced that the class of '30's gift to St. Mary's had selected Johnny Martin, '40, as his assistant. The remaining members of the Board of Governors are: William A. WalA. Sr^ '96, John Balfe, '20, Dan O'Neil, '25. Bob HamiltMi, '28. Jade Lavelle, '28, Dan Halpin, '31. Dick Donoghne, '31, Paul Haholcfaic. '35. Sic Sludca, •35. 
Warren Fogel announced Dan Halpin as diair­man of the Rockne Communion Breakfast, and Jack LaveUe as master of ceremonies and chair­man of the Universal Notre Dame Night. And, while announcing chairmen, the president called on John Balfe, chairman of the Alumni Employ­ment Bureau in New York, to ^ve an aeeount of the bureau's activities. John announced that he had been able to place 29 N.D. men during the past year and that he hoped to be even more successful during the coming year. He also made a request that alt alumni who could be of msnst­ance in placing men register with him and that 

- all sraduates register even before they are grad­uated. 
In looking over the members present, it was evident that the 1940 class is making a fine start in its bid for the most active class of the club. Let's keep up that spirit. And bring along the rest of the class next time. 
lliere are some grads around New York who never get to the meetings. These are the ones we would like to get out. You all get notices of meetings, or are supposed to. If you aren't on the mailing list, due to error or to the fact that you have recently moved to N.Y., drop a card to Jalm Martin, 80 Maiden Lane. N.Y.C.. and we'll see that your name is added immediately. 
Several members of the club who drew low numbers in the "big lottery" have already been called and are on their way .to do their bit for the national defense program. According to the information at hand Joe Schmidt. '35. Don Sta­pleten, '41. Dong Bangert, '40, Bill Tacker. '40, and Jalie Bercik. *40, will soon be wearing the khaki. 
Earl H. Blaik, newly appointed football coach at West Point, acknowledged the good wishes of the club and promised to put an end to the continued success of Notre Dame over Army on the football field. 
Tim Toomey. 
OKLAHOMA 
WmUra J. Sherry, '14, 814 Kennedy Bldg., Tnlsa. Okla., President; Cart J. Senger, '37, 12N S. Cheyenne, Talsa, Secretary. 
The annual fall dinner held at the Tulsa club was a gala affair and a grand crowd was on hand. As in the past at this meeting, the new officers for the ensuing year were elected. Wil­lian Sherry, president of the Sherry Petroleum Company, was elected president. Robert Sieg­fried, vice-president, and Frank Reidy, treasurer. Carl J. Senger was again re-elected as secretary. 
The members join me in thanking the past of­ficers, J. A. LaFortnne, Marion J. Blake and John 0*Hem, for the splendid job they did in making this a better Notre Dame club. 
Hie annual Christmas dance, under the direc­tion of Boh Siegfried, was a great success; some 300 people were present. Bob and his committee. consisting of Ll«yd Woiiey, Charles McNanur and Jahn O'Hem planned and directed the out* standing dance of the season. 
B. C. Staeve, the father of the late young graduate, has been made an honorary member o! this dub. Mr. Stneve has always been most in­terested in Notre Dame and the club is proud to have him as a member. 
Frank Reidy, our present treasurer, has been transferred to Fairbanks. Texas, where he will continue working for the Warren Petroleum Cor­poration. Firank didn't leave with the money; the arrangement, as we understand it. is only tem­porary and Frank, we trust, will soon be back with us again. 
Hie club will attend Mass in a body and re­ceive Holy Communion for Knnte Rodoie on Sunday, March 30. We hope this will be the beginning of an annual a^ir. 
May Arch Leonard, a true Notre Dame man who brought honor to his school, rest in peace! 
RHODE ISLAND ft S. E. MASS. 
J«lu J. McLMuUln. '34, Mendon Boad* OsMherUnd HOI, K. L. President: Russell L. Ummt, 19, 45 01» St., WoMuedcet, R. U Secreteiy. 
Club activities have been rather dormant for the past two months but the members revived 

interest on Feb. 19, when a meeting was held in the Narrasansett hotel. Providence. A report on the Army game trip was made. The affair was a financial snccess. 
Plans for a dance* to be sponsored, by the dab 
suild, were discussed 6nd the members made ar­
rangements to lend full stipport. The event was 
held in the Metacomet solC club, Feb. 24. 
Flans were also made for participation in the 
Universal Notre Dame Night program. 
It was learned at this source that Earl Brown, Jr., '39, suffered a severe head injury while playing basketball in Worcester, Mass. Earl was attempting a shot when an opponent took him out of play with a. block that threw Earl against a cement wall. It took three stitches to close a scalp wound, and a week in bed to recover from the shock. 
On the brighter side, for Earl, is the fact that he has been appointed assistant football coach at Harvard following the resignation of Tuss Mc-Laughry, his boss at Brown University, where Earl has been end coach for the past two years. Besides his football duties Earl will be head basketball coach. 
Ed Kraiue, '34. has been a frequent visitor to the smallest state in the Union recently, and spent a bit of time sampling the products of his classmate. John HcLangiilin. 
Rassell L. Hunt. 

ROCHESTER 
Fnnk X. ConneUy, ex. *34. 13S Spring St., President; John F. Harley, *37, 1018 Com­merce Bldg., 119 Blain St., Secretary. 

Since my last letter the club has been spon­soring something of a general fast &om all ac­tivity in order. I suppose, to strengthen their collective will for Lent. 
'nie club, however, did give a farewell party for three of its members who were to leave for a year's training in the army. The party con­sisted of an evening of bowling, with refresh­ments. About 20 -merabers attended. The new soldiers are: Corporal Jerry FarreU, Private Bin Whelefaan. and Private Loa Bemish. Their re^ment is the 209th Anti-Aircraft, and they are headed for Alabama, and later, it is ru­mored, ^Trinidad.. 
The club also reserved a table at the "Demo­crat and Chronicle** Athletic Association dinner, hel4 Feb. 5, at which Jim Crowley was the chief speaker. About 15 Notre Damers assembled to witness Jim wow the crowd of some 700 guests. Also at the speakers' table that evening was an­other Notre Dame man, Sha^ ShanghnesH'* presi­dent of the International League. 
John F. Harley. 
-ft';t. ,, '.-1. .J ,. 

SCRANTOiN, PA,, 
Joieph F. Huininc. .'29, 403 State St, Clarks Samrait, Pa., President; Robert A. GoUen, '32, 8M Providence Road, Scranton, Secretary. 

We realize that you have received little news from Scranton for. some time, and X suppose everybody, includinfr the writer, is at fault re­garding the matter. However, we really are sroinsr to try to do better in the future. Therefore, I am taldns this occasion to give you a list of onr new officers, who were elected at our annual dinner meeting held at Hotel Casey, Scranton, ou Feb. 
12. They are as follows: Joseph F. Manning, '29, president. Attorney John E. Boland, '31, vice-president, ^ John Qninn, '39, treasurer, Robert Golden. '32, secretary 
We had been holding meetings every month, but it was noted that meetings were too frequent and that attendance would be better if meetings were held less frequently. Consequently, a motion was adopted to the effect that meetings should be held only every two months in the future. Attorney John E. Boland, chairman of the com­mittee on by-laws, was instructed to draw op proper amendments regarding the change of the schedule of meetings and was asked to report back to the next regular meeting of the club, which will be held on Universal Notre Dame Night on April 21. 
In connection with the officers, I might advise I was the retiring president, who did not choose to run for a second term, but that all the other officers chose to run again for a second term. 
Torn Leahy. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Inaiana) 
IXHiu V. Bnixxner. '23. 129 W. Jttttwm. Soafli Bend, President: Clarence Hardias. '25. Sooth Bend Trikune, SM A Bend. Sec­retary. 

Coming up for the attention of club members are the following important events; both de­
. serving, as usual, strong support: 1) the ff^nxial Rockne Mass, Communion and breakfast on Sun­day, March 30, in Dillon Hall and in the Dining Hall; 2) Universal Notre Dame Nirfit, on April 
21. Ladies, as last year, will be a welcome and important part of this year's U.N.D. Night. 
ST. LOUIS 
Dr. Bertrand D. CowUin, '2C. 77M C«mtiT CInb Coort, President: Alkrt J. Baraiioab '3S. 4S51 Shaw St.. Secretary. 

One day a 'phone call from Bill Cronk informed us that the local boys had held a conclave and selected us to fill the post of "corresponding sec­retary" for the St. Louis club. In simple words, that means we will write two columns monthly now instead of just one. We accepted the job and hope to be able to keep at least a few embers glowing in this comer every issue. 
The club meets for informal luncheons every Monday noon in the grill of the Hotel De Soto. Here club members talk over the week's news, and every now and then do a little reminiscing of their campus days. Familiar faces at almost every luncheon are: Bob Hellnaic. Bill Creak. Doc Conghlin. Joe McGlynn. AI Pkaneaf. Lea Fehlig. Jade Griffin. AI Rararino, and Vlaee Gorilla. We would like to mention those attend­ing lunch every time we go to press and in that way perhaps increase the ranks of our Monday nonners. 
"Hedi." 

Despite difficulties arising from the Notre Dame coaching changes, the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis went ahead on Feb. 19 with the very effect­ive presentation of its first annual Notre Dame Award in Memory of Knatc K. Bodcae. ^ e tro­phy is to be given annually to tlie hifi^ scho<d football team in the greater St. Louis area-^rablie or private—^which is selected by a committee of sports writers, annoimcers and officials of the prep league, on the three-fold basis of sportsman­ship, team play and record. Soldan High school was the recipient of the first trophy. 
In the presence of the Soldam team, school offi­cials, coaching staff, celebrities of • the St. Louis sports world and a distinguished-gathering of Notre Dame alumni and friends at i the De Soto Hotel, the club made the presentation throng James E. Armstrong, who, with BClton Picpal, captain of the 1940 team, made the trip for the occasion. 
Joseph B. HcGlynn served as toastmaster for the occasion. President B. D. CiiasUlii. II.D., opened the celebration. Besides the campus speak­ers, those addressing the banquet were Col. John 
J. Griffin, Missotu: athletic commissioner; Scr. William J. Ryan. SJ., chaplain of the Notre. Dame club; John Rush Fowell, representing the Board of Education; John Scully, representing Mayor Dickman; Brother Seemers, president of the prep league, and Coach von Lehsten of the Soldan team. 
WASHINGTON, D. C 
Ambnr Aa*. •34. Mi (th St. &W. 
dMt: Gad 6. Ortmiaain, 11. un 

Here in the Capital of these United States « • had a splendid meeting on Feb. 3. again ia tiie Colony room' of the Hotel Ambassador. With many thanks to Gaptaia Jaka HIakd. now wtflk the War. Department, we were fortunate in bar­ing as a guest speaker Taylor Henry, ace war correvondent for the Associated Piesa. Mr. Henry, newly returned from England just three weeks previous, had many a yam to spin aod a harrowing tale or two to relate based on Don-kirk, Yiehy, and the "ti^t little Isle" aeraaa the Channel. Not only did the speaker stand up before the memben and hold fnth eontinnooaly for upwards of an hour, hot later carried OD nnd» a barrage of questions for an additional hour and a half. It was far and away the moat stimulating meeting we've had this season. 
Other distinguished members and guests were legislators Bah Gcaat of South Bend, and Jae CHara of Minnesota: DatA Bergaaa of Catho­lic University, and Jolba Maloney. foreign eorre­spondent in Red Ctoss work. 
Onr calendar for the next eight weeks.or to includes a Comrannion Breakfast at Holy Crass College, a week-^nd retreat (May 9. 10. and U ) at Manresa on the Severn near Annapolis, and. of course. Universal Notre Dame Ni^t . Am­bitions, what? 
Carl ChrisHaaaaa. 

WEST VIRGINIA 
Wiaiaa J. Keaacy.'M. n « Lee St.. Oaiha­tea. Prcddeat: lOckael J. O'Caaaar. t*. 1329 Qaarrier St. Chariestai^ Secretary. 

. Although no formal meetings have been held recently, a few of the boys. BiH Keaaey, AI Kessiag. Jiai Hallay. Vi M B>isrtim»». Kea GatAav and Mike O'Caaaw. have met infot^ maHy and discussed plans for a dinner and smoker for Universal Notre Dame Night. 
The alumni group in Charieston take a particu­lar interest in thie athletic affairs of Charlestoa Catholic high school since Paal SariA. '37. is athletic director- and has attained such success and popularity. He now conducts an adult gyas class for the CUhbUe men of Charleston, and many of the Notre Dame grads attend it. The Notre Dame club here has donated a sportsman­ship trophy to be awarded at the West Virginia state basketball tournament 
Congratulations and best wishes to three of oor members. Bab Shaauckcr. Howard Larfie^ and Paal Sadtii. who have recently been led to the altar. 
The boys in Charleston we n sorry to see JA a Cackley.' '37, who is employed by 6JLA.C.. transferred to Athene, Ohio, but were all idad to sec him drop in town for a week-end recently. 
Mike 0'« GRADUATE NEWS 
Befecrt J. TliiMii. » 1 W. Mth St. WB­adadaa, l>ilaaai«. 

Jiat MfKraaa (FhJ>. '39) passes on word from Wyandotte, Mich., that he was recently visited by Beb'Beraard (M.S. '37). Bob. he says, is located with the Kimberly-Clark Paper Com­pany at Mma^ha, Wis. 
Pete Saadrack. who is now engaged as an engineer on the "eonstmction of a naval air sta­tion, writes that Paal Sartaretta (Fh.D. '38) is now teaching diemistzy under Fatter McGratfc (PhJ>. '39) at the University of Portland. Con­gratulations, Paul,' and best wishes. Tou will have no occasion to blush if yon tell your present students to be careful about spilling add on tlieir pants. 
Dm KilKaa (FhJ>. '3S) has transferred from the Ammonia IHviwm of the duPont Oompany to the Krdis Pigment Division. Don has taken up his re^dence in Newark, N. J. 
)»

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Hiss Mary Josephine Cunningham and Francis Allen Deitle, '26, of Benton Harbor, Mich. 
Miss Angela Nadonly and Albert J. Smith, Jr., *37, of Evanston, HI. 
Miss Alberta Haberfelde and Cloyd D. Smith, ex. '37, of Burbank, Calif. 
Miss Monica Schoo and Charles G. Morrow, '38. of Louisville, Ky. 
Miss Dorothy Patterson and Juan Enrique Cin­tron, '40, of South Bend. 
Miss Rosemary DeVreese and Edward L. Dela­hanty, Jr. '40, of South Bend. 
Miss Maggielee Lancaster and James L. Dela­hanty, '40, of South Bend. 
Miss Audrey Joyce Gloppe and Frederic K. Hendez, ex. *40, of South Bend. 
Births 
A daughter, Katharine Virginia, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. J. Daniel Calhane, '23, on Feb. 8, in Chicago. 
A daughter, Mary Sheila, was born to Mr. and Mrs. James P. Danehy, '33, recently, in Cleveland. 
A daughter, Rosemary, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John Midtnta. *36. on Jan. 10, in LaCrosse, Wis. 
A son, Gerald, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Doyle, '35. on Jan. 20, in Burlington, Vt. Clyde E. Broussard. '13. is the proud grandfather. 
Morriages 
Miss Margaret O'Brien and Dr. James W. ToMn, '29, were married, Feb. 7, in Chicago. Dr. Paul G- Tobin, '28, was best man. 
Ibe marriage of Miss Fay Wilder and Laurens 

P. Cotter, '30, took place, Feb. 8, in Detroit. 
Hiss Dorothea Gertrude Erickson and Lt. Charles D. Jones, '32, were married. Feb. 15, in Shreveport, La. 
The marriage of Miss Maureen Shay and Robert 

R. Stapp, *36, took place, recently, in Boulder, Colo. 
Hiss Mary Elizabeth Gilbert and John A. Gil­lespie, 'ST, were married Feb. 22, in Westfield, 
N.J. 
Miss Margery Hugett and Joseph W. Krapa, ex. '38, were married, Oct. 19, in Portland. Ore. Rev. Theodore J. Mehling. C.S.C.. '29. performed the ceremony. 
The marriage of Miss Katharine Janet Kedzie and John S. Hovlder, '38. took place, Feb. 15, at Notre Dame. 
BCiss Marguerite Eleanor McNulty and Mark J. BGtcheO, '39. were married. Feb. 22. in Winnetka. HI. 
The marriage of Miss Bumas Haslanger and Carroll A. Micfaels, '40, took piece, Feb, 15, in South Bend. 
Miss Lorraine Schultheis and Frank Sdiaied, *40, were married, Feb. 18, in Columbus, Wis. 
Miss Carmen Martinez and W. Enffcne Sadth, ex. *40, were married, Dec. 9, in New York City. 
The marriage of Miss Helen Meuser and Donald 

P. Smith, '40. took place, Aug. 21, in Pern, IIL 
Deaths 
Samuel C. Hoover, I.afayette, Ind.. a student at Notre Dame in 1869^71, died on Jan. IB at'the age of 84. according to a note in the "Religions Bulletin." 
A four-year monogram man, Edward C. Pnid­homme, of the class of '90, captain of the 1888 and the 1889 football teams, the second and the third teams in the history of the University, died in his sleep on Feb. 5 in his home in Bemrada, La. Word of his death was thoughtfully sent to the Alumni Office by his sister, Mrs. Cora Pmd­homme Lawton. Natchitoches. La. Mrs. Pmd­homme survives, residing in Bermuda, La. 
The Alumni Office has just tieard of the death, on Dec. 16, 1939, of J. Raymond Diver, Ph.B. Com. '25. Ray was employed by a public ntiUty company in Indianapolis. Acute leukaemia, from which he was seriously ill for, only three wedcs. caused his death. Ray is survived by his wife and a son and a daughter. 
Word just came to the Alumni Office of the death, on Dec. 26, 1937, of John Joseph Oaray, 
A.B. '31, Bridgeport, Conn. 
Capt. Richard S. Freeman, ex. '29, of the U. S. Army Air Corps, commandant of Ladd Tteld, Fairbanks. Alaska, died on Feb. 6 in the auv plane crash at Lovelock. Nev. 
Dick was originally a resident of Winamae. Ind. He spent 1925-26 at Notre Dame, then trans­ferred to West Point and was graduated there in 1930. In 1940 he won the Mackay trophy for outstanding aircraft engineering in the 1939 Army plane flight to Rio de Janeiro. He was en route to Wright field, Dayton, Ohio, when the crash occurred. 
Capt. Laarence J. Lane, of the South Bend police, a special student and a si}ecial policeman at Notre Dame in the early 1900*s, died in South Bend on Jan. 28 after an illness of two years from heart trouble. 
Maintaining through all the years, following his immigration from his native County Limerick, Ireland, a devoted interest in Notre Dame, "Larry" was the friend of countless Notre Dame men. He had spent two terms as chief of police of South Bend and was, for 7% years, superin­tendent of plant protection for the Studebaker Corporation. 
Rev. John C. McGinn, C.S.C., a close friend for many years, preached the sermon at Capt. Lane's funeral Mass. Father McGinn was one of a large delegation representing the University at the funeral. 
Persoiiofs 
Before 1890 L.^^^^:^ La. 
BOT. J. A. HBcNaaun. "97.

1890-99 
Saiat' Jaaeili'. Saaitariwn, Ibaat Clauiu, lOddcaii. 
SO-Year Reunion 
Oass of 1891 
May 30, 31, June I 

From Father Mac: . I had a letter from Charka S. Mitchell, C.E., '94, of Lplita, Texas. He has noticed that news of the early '90's 15 scarce. He sends some in and would like to hear some more. He was known to his class as "Stock." "Stock" says he's kept the wolf from his door all these years and can still sit up and take nourishment, also that his door key is lost, but the old latch string is still doing business at the same old stand. 
He had luncheon recently with Fred Schillo, '94, who lives in Houston, Texas. Fred is con­nected with a large insurance firm there, looks hale and hearty and doesn't show his age at all. Fijed played on the football team in '96. He was a post grad then. 
Babt. E. Pnetar, 'M, linear 

1900-04 
Bafliinr. EOdurt ladiaaa. 
BcT. Thaaiaa E. Baike, C.S.C.. 

1905-09 
'17. Natia Daau. Indiaiu. 

1910 Bar. K. L. Haiiatty. S t Ifair'a Ckareli. Mcalar. OidaL 
Ben lu Berre, of Bochelle, III., chairman of the Bepubllcan state central committee, was recently appointed fiscal supervisor of the department of public welfare of the state by Governor Dwight Green. 
na< Steata. UM Ifaat Natiaul Badt 

1911 
BafliiBr. Ckkaca, mhaia. 

B. J. KUatr. SZ4 FMrtik St . Pitta> 1912 fcaitk, Paaaqrlvaala. 
Jim Sanfard. '15, wrote that he attended the presentation banquet of the Knute Roclcne Me­morial trophy to the IT. of Minnesota as the guest of Dr. William A. O'Brien, ex. '12, brother of Jim O^rien, '13, of Detroit Dr. O'Brien is a professor on the staff of the U. of Minnesota Medical School and is in charge of Postgraduate. Krtension work. He is also on the radio several times each week. 
101 9 Po l B. Byne, Uniranity Liktaiy. 
•'• * Natra Dame, bdiana. 
IQI^ Fkank H. Bayea. M2 TUid ATC . 
• »•• » CfcaU Viata. Callfamia. 
191 E '•>«• E- Sairfaid. ST15 CUatan An.. 
• ' • * Betwyn. IIHBSis. 
Bay Kelly and Ernie LaJoie of Detroit both were nominated on Feb. 17 for circuit judge of Wayne County. The election will be on April 8. 
1916 TiaMlhr P. Qabta, Rn t Tnut AdU­
img. 
25-year Reunion Oass of 1916 May 30, 31, June I 

191 7 ^"" ^ '• HcOikcr, 31H Fminmmt 
• ' • « BITIL, CleTdand Hcichti, Ohio. 
From Danny HUsartner (by way of Eddie Mc-Osker: 
*'. . . Not much doing among our group of six or seven in Chicago. I never see Bill Kennedy, or Joe Flynn, the lawyer, who is doing all right in the insurance business. Slim Walsh comes around once in a while. Rig Sackley and Austin Mc-Nidiols arc both active in the Chicago club. Big's oldest girl is a freshman at St. Mary's. 
"My only boy, who was 20 on New Year's Day, is a junior in the College of Commerce at Notre Dame. ... " 
Paul Fogarty is, as ever, active in radio. He is connected with WON, Chicago, and his weekly duties consists of producing two sport shows, two commentary programs, a musical show, and a series of iive-minute, iive-a-week dramas. 
101 0 John A. Lenuner. SOI Lake Shan Drire. 
• ' ' * ' Ewniaba. Hidtlgan. 
191 9 <^>««» Bader, (5t Plem Stnet. ' ' • ' Gary, Indiaiu. 
1990 ^^ ^ ^**^ ^*^ ^^'^ Bl^- ^^ 
•
 '** » Anselei. CalUonla. |A4 | Daa W. Daffy, Ki t Teimliu] Tower, 

•
 '^ • Ckrelasd. Ohio. 


20-year Reunion Class of 1921 May 30, 31, June 1 

From Dan Dnffy: 
Here's the first of expressions on the 1921 class makinsr the 20-year reunion. It conies from Leo D. KeDey; 2731 S. Salina St» Syracuse, N. Y. I trust that Kel's letter is only the first of a long line that I'll receive regarding our reunion come the next Memorial Day week-end. Please get a note off to me pronto. Kel says: 
"Because I have a nephew in the senior class of Notre Dame this year I shall undoubtedly at­tend the Commencement exercises. 
"As this will be the 20th anniversary of our class, I trust that I am not supposing too much to expect you to arrange a real reunion of that bunch of broken-down old men like myself who were once the boys of '21. 
"Duke and I have long since given up the hope of your long-promised visit to Syracuse* but it would be good to receive a word from you occa­sionally." 
192 2 ^" ^ ^^""^ ^* ^<^ ATense. Hfltte, 
K. T. 

From Kid Aihe: Bill (William A. A.) Castellini, president of the Philadelphia N.D. club, has opened offices in the Lincoln-Liberty Building where he is offering a public relations service. Among his present clients are: The Biochemical Research Foundation of the Franklin Institute, Philadelphia Advisory 
Council on Vocational Education for National Defense. The Benjamin Eshleman Company. Stew­art Jordan Company. Museum Council of Phila­delphia. Philadelphia Theatregoers* Coundl, Greek War Relief Association, the 18th annual Phila­delphia Flower Show, United Charities, and the Castellini Company. 
Dan (Daniel H.) Tonne is being kept busy with the construction of a 15-milIion dollar dry dock at the Philadelphia Navy Yard- It ia rumored thjit by the time this is printed his Dry Dock Associ­ates will have another order for a like construc­tion in Philly. 
Eddie Herbert, in the advertising department of Kelvinator, Detroit, visited Philadelphia on a business survey. 
Bill Daly, Philadelphia manager of the Worth­ington P\imp Company, has" recently moved to (^•nwyd. Pa., a main-line suburb of Philadelphia. 
A card from Dr. Dan Sexton, of St. Louis, tells of his vacationing at Miami Beach, Fla. 
Pan! H. Castner, 137 So«tt ATC^ N«ir 1923 Canaan, Connectiait. 
J. F. Hayc^ S9S Ttii An^ I UU.1924 New York City. 
The appointment of Rev. Leo F. Flood, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame mission hand, to .the pastorate of Sacred Heart church. New Orleans, succeed­ing the iate Father Joseph Barke.; C.S.C^ was recently announced. Father Flood is known throughout the country as a missionary, having traveled widely since his appointment in 1929, The New Orleans parish, one of the largest in the nation, includes 3.000 families. 
1925 John P. Barley. 3985 Bnakdala WtmiL T6Mo, OUo. 
From John Hnrley: 
There are no Lenten regulations .on news, but this letter from Congressman Vince HarruiKton is all I have to offer, unless Leo Powen's letter concerning the boj'S in the Chicago area comes through before the deadline. Vince says: 
*'I want to acknowledge your kind*note of Nov. 11, and at the same time offer my apologies for this belated reply. As you have probably ^nce learned, Iowa went heavily Republican, and Mr. Willkie carried our district by more* than 10,000 votes. Inasmuch as my majority .'was around 2,500, you can readily see that we won the hard way. This is about the story in a nutshell." 
J. Clifford Potts will retain his-post as presi­dent of the Family Welfare Society, Inc. one of the South Bend Community Fund agencies, by virtue of action of the society's board of direc­tors. He and Paul M. Butler, '27. both local attorneys, spoke recently in the Elks' temple in South Bend on the observance of National Broth­erhood Week. 
The establishment of the NoMe E. Kixer me­morial trophy in memory of the popular Purdue athletic leader who died' last summer was an­nounced recently by A. H. (Mai) Elward, *16, Boilermaker football coach and athletic director. The award, given by Mitchell Menacof, Purdue alumnus, will be presented to the Purdue football player who distinguishes himself both in studies and football. 
1926 Jaw, A. RMUB, 127 IT. DtufcMta St. Chlcase,.IlBnoii. 
IS-Year Reunion Oass of 1926 May30, 31, June 1 

1927 Nalial 
JAa ltrMih»B, '28, reports that JM A. BraiB, ex. '27, is writinK a clever eohnim, "One Han's Opinion," in the Pittsburgh "Son Telegraph." Also on the staff of the paper are Jaha Ward. ex. '16. and Dkk O'DMUCB, '31. 
•alM.ir««i«l 

1928 
From Lea BaAky: 
Oar guest writer this month, Jeka C FIsataBa, came thnmgh with m fine letter in m 22 East Gay Street, Colambas, Ohio, where he is praetie­ing law. Ji^in has succeeded in securing news from several fellows from whom we have not had a word of news in some time, blanks for the fine cooperation. John writes as follows: 
"Yon are prohahly thinking, after reading my letter, that I am writing from the War Zone. Lack of news is doe to the fact that most of the boys to whom I wrote neglected to answer my letter, bat Kaitia J. Salaaa refoaed to let me down and tells me that he is lirins at 412 Water Street, Clinton, Kass., and is eertunly giving Bab Kiiky a mn with four heirs. His other sieat interest seems to be the John Hancock Life In­sarance Co. 
"Aronnd Clinton, Mass, is Ed FUOia. ex. '2S. He is in the coal and real estate bomness. Jeka Barfce, '29, is still one of the eligible men -^th the ladies aboat town. He has forsaken politics to become manager of the State Employment Office. Followins the Borke tradition, Jaka F. Barfce, '29, is married and has three lovely diil­dren and directs the history department of the Clinton High SdiooL Phil Cencdella has been seen in Clinton, bat is a mystery man. They threaten to stop Phil the next time he is in town. 
"Ed HcGaaley is to be found at U6 Pleasant St, Leicester, Mass. The proprietor of a hotel and restanrant business is not other than Patsy Has-tints, '30. 
"Pete GsBacher still reigns at 934 Center St.. Freeland, Fa. He reports he hasn't seen many of oar class for a good number of years and if it wasn't for the Christmas cards he received he would think he was a lost man. Pete says his friend, Eddie Canlia. is a medico in Chicago, and married. 
"Maatice MrMraaaiia is in New York working for the Whelan Drug Co. Brother GaUsgher says. he is a married man of six years and has two future sons for'Notre Dame and that he heads the English department and is the Keeper of the Coin for the athletic department. Pfete woald like to hear from the following baddies: BUI Dwycr, Jack Wiaserter. Jee OUigats, Jaha LeUiianr, Ed Ficitas. Bab Facerty. Frank Da<aette. Dkfc Elpera, Dick Weks, Ed Oeaaea and Bab Ward. 
"Better late than never. Art Canty, who is in Los Angeles, writes he has been close to Cohmi­bus but always detours and then writes his re­grets. Martia Biai. my old schoolmate, is prac­ticing law in Cleveland. I understand Hartr has been deferred to a 3-A classification. He finally took the plunge. Jae Kinneary is my Sunday night caller. Joe is practicing law in the Atlas Building at Ondnnati and has a heart throb in Columbus. 
"Paal Falter, formerly of Ironton, has been recently appointed diief bailiff for the Industrial Commission. Note from Didc Traat, of Cam­bridge, Nebr., gives an invitation to the members' of the class of '28 to be sure and st<v in when in the vicinity. Neil Aaiet. the sage of Wyan­dotte, Mich., answers to the address of 1932 Davis St. Jee Waaalak is in Akron and is seen oceaabm­ally at Democratic meetings. From lOlwankce comes a note from Fiaak HaHampf. '28. F^ank is married. 
"A Sunday would never be complete without seeine: Jim Shockneasy. Jim is practicing law in Columbus since he left the Home Ou*ners' Loan Corporation and besides worrying about our po­litical party, Jim is making a name for himself as a lawyer. The State Office Buildins: now houses Paal Brady, fo'rmerly of Painesville. The Public Utilities Commission holds his interest. Paul hasn't changed but I lost track of his side­kick, Bcmie Zipperer. I recently missed him in my prowlinss. 
"Jim RoM is becoming quite a sensation in Ashtabula. His annual CHiristmas wire completes the holiday spirit. Vircil P. Cline, '29, formerly of Akron, with whom I have been associated in the practice of law, has answered Uncle Sam's whistle. Captain Pete is in charge of the Selec­tive Service classification for the State of Ohio. Pete doesn't smoke but his Webster 'Fancy Tales' are enjoyable. I suggest that the boys stop at the University Club building and try them. Sylvester Hobily, of Cleveland, called at my olTice recently. He is manager of one of the stores of the Stand­ard Drug Co. 
"William Dore, '30, formerly of Hffin and Cleveland, has finally decided to return to his old haunts in Columbus. Bill is now selling bonds. By the grapevine. I hear that George Sargns is one of the leading business men in Bellaire. Ohio, but I haven't heard from or seen George since graduation." 
Now I will give you the letters which we 
saved from Bob Grant's collection of last month: 
Bob Hamilton wrote to Bob from 143-63 Ash 
Ave., Flushing, "L. J.i 
"Occasionally I see Larry Cnlliney, and he usually has the same femme in tow. Bill Cronin and I spend hours arguing about almost any­thing. As a matter of fact, my wife thinks I should pay for the entire telephone bill at the end of the month, since Cronin and I use up three-fourths of the bill by ourselves. 
"Bemie Garber was married and had a group of classmates there, but unfortunately I was xm­able to attend either the ceremony or the break­fast following. Tommy Listzwan takes a great interest in the activities of our club, and is one of our most loyal supporters. Jim Conmej* is very seldom seen at any of our functions. I don't know whether it is because he likes Brooklyn more or us less. Jade Lavelle, our star shot-putter, has developed into an after-dinner speaker extraordi­nary, and his services are in great demand. He is doing a lot of officiating in basketball and foot­ball circles, as. well as coaching at All Hallows Academy. 
"Taric Kelly is coaching basketball at De La-Salle. Connie Odioa dropped in at the Reunion and Rally last November and we introduced him as the alumnus who had come the .greatest dis­tance to see the Army game. As you know, he hails from Chihuahua, Mexico. Art Dendtfield came all the way from Brazil shortly after the Reunion and Rally, so he lost the honor which was accorded to Connie. 
"Jean Farrell is mixed up with the 'Long Island Press,' and lives in College Point, which is only a few miles from my home in Flushing. I under­stand that Fred Miller spent a few days with a friend up in White Plains and that quite a few of the boys were guests at a beefsteak dinner which was given for him. Hiis was anther shin­dig which I was forced to forego, because of other activities." 
John Frederick is practicing law from the Hackley Union National Bank BIdg. in Muske­gon, Mich. John wrote to Bob as follows: 
"I saw James AOen the Friday night before the Iowa game, and on Saturday I was with Dave Krembs. They both tell me that ther are doing very well. I also saw Connie Odwa. Jeny Bigge is now a star salesman here in Muskegon, and is doing well. Saw Chile Wal ^ and from alt reports, he is doing a good job with the Chicago Cardinals. 
"I drove through Cedar Springs. Mich., on my way to Sa^naw and stopped there to have londi with Don Raa, who has a comer on all the in­surance business in his county. While in DetrtHt recently I inquired about Gay Loranger and vas informed that he is now an M.D. and has m very good practice. Leo Walih is now situated in Grand Rapids where he is practicing law and is finding it a lucrative field. Robert AmoU, for­merly with the Attorney General's office at Lan­sing, is back in private practice at Ithaca. I saw Bob in Muskegon on several occasions this past fall. 
"During a trip through the East and Canada this summer, I stopped in Maine and saw Adaai Walsh, '25. Harry StnUdrdter was the principal speaker at the Elks banquet for the Greater Muskegon high school football players. Harry made a great impression and we were all pleased with his oratorical ability. 
"As for myself, I am still practicing law, have three children and exx>ect the fourth soon. Tdl Bob Kirby to look to his laurels." 
Bill Armin wings in this report: 
".. . I left Notre Dame in March, 1939. after finishing the statistical tables for FaAer Ed Keller's study, "Fhyacal Assets of the United States." I came down to Marmion, Aurora, HI., to assume the post of Quartermaster, which in the laymen's world is a post comparable to that of Comptroller and Business Manager. 
"Marmion is a very excellent Catholic, essen­tially military, school' with approxinutcly 400 enrolled. Marmion is conducted by the Benedic­tine Fathers. Father Norbert, superintendent, took his M.A. at Notre Dame some years back, and consequently, he is a very good Notre Dame booster. Other Notre Dame laymen at Marmion are Captain George Ireland of basketball fame, and Captain Thad Bednard. In addition to the above Notre Dame representation, we have Father Benedict. Father Damian, Father David, and Father Raymond, who attended Notre Dame for their advanced work, and consequently are keen on anything that Notre Dame does. From the above, you will see that we have a very strong representation of Notre Dame men at Marmion. Consequently, we feel a very strong bond existing. 
"I have an occasion to see Dr. Phil Hcmflung, and Clarence Rnddy every now and then. Both are doing exceptionally well in their particular lines of endeavor. ... " 
Our plans for next month include two guest writers from whom we will be expecting a great deal of news. John Igoe will be on deck with a letter from Kansas City Club. Kansas City, Mo. I still haven't given up hope of securing & re­sponse from the engineers. Consequently, I have asked Laurence A. Wingerter, of 292 Madison Ave.. New York City, to see what he can do for us in this respect, Z^et's hope the engineers give Laurence better cooperation than they did a few months ago when Xoa Carr tried in vain to get a response from them. 
Angle Grams was toastmaster of the I^aCrosse Catholic High School thirteenth annua] football banquet. Among the speakers were Larry "Moon** Mullins. '31. then coach of St. Ambrose, Daven­port, Iowa, now assistant to Tom Licb at the University of Florida. 
P. HdTaaaxa. AUmrmn Gm­
1929 
•nlOfleiw] 
Clurfes E. Meyer, '29, is representative of the 
Equitable life Assurance Society of the U.S. with 
offices in the Tower Petroleum BIdg., Dallas, 
Texas. He recently wrote requesting that litera­
ture be forwarded to a prospective N.D. student. 
Ber. Jaseph Vo*rde, CS.C, *29, Rev. John 
Haniagtan. C&C, '29, and Rev. James HcGar­
vey, C&C., recently returned from Dacca in 
Bengal, India. Hiey are members of the mission­
ary band and will spend some time in this country 
before returning to their work. 
IQ^ A gfafcw* L, P«MKh—, i n Btririlfc Dr„ IT^ V NmrTmkGHr. 
From Dick Donoglue: 
Congratulations Department: In behalf of the class, yotir correspondent expresses felicitations to Elaer Layden, on his appointment as commis­sioner of national professional football: to Frank Leaky, on his being selected as Layden's successor; to J. Arthnr Haley, new director of publie relations and to his successor. Herbert E. Janes, new business manager of athletics. 
It is not too early to solicit suggestions from the class concerning its interest in a get-together on the campus at Commencement, this year. It is probable that many who attended the 10-year reunion last year, as well as others who did not, will be on hand this year. We might drum up in­terest in a cantonment which will rival that of last June in Morrissey Hall. Why not drop "yours truly" a line, saying what you suggest? Do YOU plan to attend? 
Belated acknowledgments of holiday greetings go to Charlie Powers, of Macon. Ga., who says bis present efforts in the engineering field are going fine, and to Jim Malloy, of Charleston. 
W. Va., of the same profession, and father of a grand &mily. Frank Lederman, of Utica, N. Y., likewise of the mathematical turn of mind, ccmes in with greetings from himself and fam­ily, (Ibe class news which appeared in the Feb­ruary "Alumnus" was written prior to Christ­mas.) Tom Kassis, of Cheyenne. Wyo., announced the birth of a son with his greetings, which adds additional lustre to his fireside. 
Jade FoDces, Jr., is manager of credits, collec­tions and finance for the Nassau Suffolk Lumber and Supply Co., Amityville, L.!. Jack recently participated in the program of the 47th annual convention and Building Material Exposition which was held at the Hotel Pennsylvania. New York City. He addressed the Managing and Op­erating Session on the subject: "How to Play the Cash Re^ster in Six Easy lessons." Jack attend­ed Newark University in '33 and finished his law at New York University in '36. He is also man­ager of Lumber Security Corp. and Building Counsel, Inc. 
Adding to last month's news item on George Pope, the newly-elected president of the Avoyelles Parish school board, Bunkie. La., comes word that George is doing all right as o^vner of a Coca-Cola bottling plant in that county, as well as being interested in Ice & Utilities Co. and a few cotton plantations. Tliis would seem to be a case of diversification of interests on an all-year round basis, now that utilities and cotton prcblems are in the news in the national press. According to Jade Folkes, George was in town to attend a Bottlers* Convention which - was held at the Waldorf-Astoria, New York City, in early January, at which time he visited Jack. 
•Al Calrer, the sage of N. LaSalle St.. Chica­go, comes in with many views and much news. and says that Tony Kegowicz was affiliated ^vith a law firm, prior to doing his "time" with Uncle Sam. Looks like "Keg" won a lottery, after all! He also says that Ckarlie Sdiwartx. Jr., is in the lumber business in Napcrville, III., Char­lie, it seems, wilt be married soon, in v>-hich case, we'll be listening* for the 'word. Al saw Dick Savace at the Notts Dame election party at the Knickerbocker Hotel, Chicago. Dick is married. Jolin T. Ho«]ihan was the Democratic candidate fo'r a judgeship, and despite his good race, was deefated by his Repablicnn opponent. Al plans to fnit loose with some more news in the future, having to do with the Chicago contingent. We \fouId like him to bring in Ray Riordan in his next letter. 

Bill Dooley*ft "one-cent teletype" flashed the last-minute news that Kaii Brennan was moving out to South Bend for W. T. Grant Co. That is to remind Kirwin and Frost and Sallivan to make contact with him. Rev.. Richard J. Grimm* C.S.C.. has been appointed superior of Holy Cross Seminary, and we are going to ask him to relax from his new duties to write us a few lines, saying where those of the class are located, who became priests, and news about them. 
J. Francis Finne^an has resigned his position as advertising manager of the Huntington, Ky., "Herald-Press" and has joined the Advertising F\iblications, Inc.. of Chicago, publishers of "Advertising Age" and "Industrial Marketing," 
 Benan, SS8 E. Colfmz A' 

1931 Jolm 
SmOi Brad. Indiana. 
lO-Year Reunion 
Class of 1931 
May 30, 31, June 1 

From recent Alumni Office record changes: Francis A. Zilierle reports that he is still teach­ing in the Chicago school system and that his home address is 9525 Avenue M, Chicago. Martin 
J. Dowlinff is assistant treasurer of the Atlantic Stamping Co. and his home address is G3 Ingle­^vood Drive, Rochester, N. Y. 
Raymond P. Nea is an assistant accountant with the Armour Fertilizer "Works, Jaclcsonville, Fin., and lives at 69th & Lorain Sts. in that city. Philip J. Prenderxast is a salesman with the Central Engraving Co.. Cleveland. Ohio, and his home address is 2036 Wyandotte Ave.. Lakevrood. Ohio. Attorney Wilton J. Sherman, of Gary, Ind., now is a captain in the U.S. Army and is sta­tioned in the Officers Training Camp, Fort Knox. Ky., as a member of the First Armored Tank Division. 
Edrar H. Lloyd is a foreman in the National Tube Co. plant at Fllwood City. Pa. His home address is 819 California Ave., Ellwood City. Charles R. Slack is a florist in Medina, N. Yi, and lives at. 1100 West Ave. in that same city. Lester J. Widda is a statistician with the Con­sumers Power Co. and lives at 598 Royal Drive, Jackson, Mich. Erston Herzoc is superintendent of' the Lever Brothers plant in Baltimore. Md., and his present address is 601 Arlington Ave., Baltimore. A leading attorney of Michigan f^ty. Ind.. is Francis G. Fedder who lives at 1005 Washington St. 
William L. O'Malley is a lawyer and master in chancery of the circuit court of Cook County, m., and lives at 1705 West 82nd St.. Chicago. Winiam "Mike" Bnnrn is a mutuel supervisor of several race traclts. dividing his time between Rockingham. N. H.. Narragansett, R. I., and Hialeah and Tropical Park, Fla. His official resi­dence is 91 Farragut Roa£ Swampscott, Mass. 
BIynm J. Marphy is a Rock Island, III..-attor­ney and lives at 2009- 32nd St. of that city. WilliaK H. Cleaiy is a salesman connected with the Laird-Ludwig Co., Minneapolis. His home address is 3133 Portland Ave., Minneapolis. Fnnk R. Dittoc is in the insurance business in Glerfr. land, and is living at 674 Euclid Ave.. Widc­liffe. Ohio. 
From John Bexran: Nomination for '31 Man-of-the-Year is Fiaak Leahy, newly - appointed athletic director and coach of the Notre Dame football team. FVank is certainly to be congratulated and by his new position takes on a high place in the athletic* world ten years after his graduation. Frank was president of our freshman class and was one of the most popular men on the campus. Though he was denied a role in the last championship team under Knnte Rockne, due to a pre-season broken leg. he has always been one of VaA*» most prominent coaches. He is competent, cheer­ful and aggressive. May his years at Notre Dame ha happy and successful ones. He assumed his duties 'at the University early in March and expects to move his family of two daughters and a son to South Bend this summer. 
The tenth reunion ball is rolling and already great plans are being'made to entertain the class of '31 in great style on the campus at the Uni­versity and in South Bend during the days of May 30. 31, and June 1. A very enthusiastic meeting of the reunion committee was held the latter part of the month and plans were dis­cussed to invite every member of the class, grad­uate or not, back to the reunion. The meeting was conducted by class "Vice-President Bill Leahy. Chicago's handsome bachelor, and resulted in the naming of Jimmy Doyle, investment expert, as chairman of the reunion, with the writer in charge of local arrangements. 
The general committee, in addition to the 
- above named includes; Chicago's weld executive, Eddie Ryan; barrister Bos Ridi; insurance brok­er Gil Seaman, who, by the way. has a swell family in Oak Park; coal company manager Frank Holland; and printing firm executive Ray Collins. From South Bend will be Coach Frank Leahy; paint company ad man Jeny Crowley; University personnel man Ed Monay; law pro­fessor Jim Kearney; restauranteur Dan Claric; haberdasher Rollie PooUn. and shoeman Clarence Fatter. Letters have already been mailed to the class telling of our reunion plans and the follow­ing men have been placed in charge of contacting the members of the class residing in their vicini­ties and interesting them in making the trip to the reunion: 
Thomas R. Ashe, Ix)s Angeles; Bfatthew I. Cal­linan, San Francisco: William J. Flahaven, Bridgeport. Conn.; Sara Vetrano. New Britain. Conn.: Ridiard W. Giroox, Washington. D. C ; Frederick J. Rahaim. Florida and Georgia; Tlwm­aa F. Monahan, Jr.. Areola, Southern Illinois; Michael H. Kinney, Springfield, III.; "Wilfred B. Habing, Indianapolis; Frands J. Hennebcrfcr, Southern Indiana; John Manley, Dyersville^ Iowa; Pierre 'V. Angenniere. Louisville. Ky.; Aastin L. Boyle, New Orleans, La.; John F. Saanden, Bos­ton, Mass.; Robert L. Neydon. Detroit, Mich.: Joseph F. Deeb. Grand Rapids; JoMph R. Sdirw­der. Minneapolis; Bill McCarthy, Kansas City; Paul Fehlig. St. Louis; John E. LisiiU. Perth Amboy. N. J.: Thomas Gordon Salmon, Trenton, 
N. J. 
Walter A. O'Brien. Albany. N. Y.; Daniel C. Williams, Brooklyn; and Arthur C. Bcrcen, Dan­iel D. Halpin, New York City; Jokn J. Kahn, Poughkeepsie. N. Y.; Martin J. DowUnr, Roch­ester. N. Y.: John W. Zaback, Ashtabula. Ohio; Clarence H. Brink, Cincinnati: Dr. James Jaseph Hnglies, Columbus. Ohio; Alfred C. Grisanti and Larry Krai. Cleveland; Don McDsnald. Flint. Mich.; Bad Gies. Helena. Mont.: William J. Mc-Aleer, Altoona. Pa.; John P. Hi^ey and Chalks 
J. SpineUi, Pittsburgh; Edward L. Shean. Scran­ton. Pa.; Alkert J. Haloney, Texas; Frands E. Fknnery. Seattle. Wash.; Daniel C. Lendnw. Kenosha. "Wis.; F. X. Marphy, Jr., Manitowoc "Wis.; Jaseah A. Lawimaa, Marinette "Vna.': Eari J. CBiia. Milwankee; Jdm K. Dimmj. Oshkoah. "Wis.; and Hwaid C Ijgarth*, Hedeo City, Herica 
' It is oar earnest hope that these men WHI con­tact eadi member of flie class and arnmte. for transportation it neeessarr and mge Omr neWi­bois to attend so that the class of '31 irill have the largest rennion of any graduating class bom the University. Tlie eommittee -wisiies to stnsa the'fact that the reunion this year will he organ­ized and interest through letters wHI he'kqit i v from now until May. A definite program is bdns arranged so that there win be somethins planned for the entire three days. 
The tentative program fallows: informal re­ception and lundieon. Friday noon in oar resi­dence hall, yet to he adected; golf and swimming. Friday afternoon: class dinner. Friday evening, place to be sdeeted. Movies of the 1930 foothaB team will be shown at the dinner as wen as 1931 class pictures. 'Die dinner "wiU be the highfight of the week-end as definite entertainment is as­sured. Informal smoker win follow the dinner. Saturday morning the class golf toamament wiU he held, in addition to the traditional ten year-five year sottban game. (Note: "Stretch" Kahaa. please get that "soophme" in diqie.) Saturday afternoon, 'informal rec^tion, residence haU; Saturday evening, alumni banquet with ^ledal places arranged for the class. Smoker in Ckrroll hall "Ree" will foUow the hanimet. Sunday morn­ing tlie class Mass for deceased members -win be offered at ten o'clock. 
The class fee for the entire week-end "will he '92.50, a very ntMiunal sum for a planned reunion. It is necessary that yoor reservation be tamed in early along with your check so that .we can count on .your support for a real week-end of entertainment and feUowship. The eommittee is making every effort to arrange your entertain­ment, so if yoa know of any addresses of boys who are not reedving the "Alumnus" please ad­vise us or invite them to make their reservation on time. 
Dr. James Binins is kept busy these days with his general mescal practice in Sharpsville, Fa. Laa O'Shea is stiU the master salesman for the Petrologar Laboratories of Chicago, and Walt Beasley is assistant dty editor of the "Salt Lake Tribune." Paal Enricht has transferred his engi­neering activities from the Southwest to Oakland. Calif., where he is associated with the Hydraulic Dredging Company. Inddentally. one of our-other engineers is also in Oakland. Paal Caddac. who has promised to be on liand for the reunion wedc­end. Call Gaeasslea is with the Boreau of Becla­mation of the state of Cdorado and is located in Ftaeblo. Serving on the staff of the Fordham hos­pital in New York is Dr. Jeha Gaanaa. Bah Gate is dividing his time between McHenry. HL, 'where he has a large chicken farm, and Florida where he deals in lumber. Bert Malaaey is the new as­sistant manager of the International Harvester truck branch in San Antonio. Tern Ftccd is fill­ing out his third year as Penn Township trustee in Mishawaka. Ind. 
Jahnny Hiasea is doing a thriving ardiitectaral business in Fond du Lae, "Wis. Kenny Tahaka has transferred his pharmaceutical talents tram South Bend to Minneapolis. Jim Coram is Oe proprietor of S t Marys. W. "Va., finest pharmacy. Bah Manhal is -with the Florida state department of engineering and is living in Tdlahasaee. BU SaKvaa is spending the 'winter months at his Sarasota. Fla.. home. 'While over at Palm Beach. Bah Balfe is doing a fine id> for the "Palm Beadi Post 'Hmes." 
Our Batland. 'Vt.. rendents. Dr. and Barrister Ed MrliaHra are stirrins up a lot of reunion interest in thdr sector and pronise to bring a gang with them. 
Say fflaadnuas is the general manager of the 
Gloudemans Gase Co., Appleton, Wis. Steinert Gansanre is with the J. L. Hopkins and Co. at 220 Broadway, New York City. Word from the Argentine conveys the news that Harry Kennedy is in Buenos Aires as the South American repre­sentative of his company and may be located at Adolfo Berro 3442. Jack Hnphes is assisting Joe Folej-, '33, and his brothers in the Foley Lumber Company, Jacksonville. Fla. Clarence "Kappy** Kaplan is in the old home town with the Owa­tonna Tool Co., Owatonna, Minn. Brother Martin John. CF.X.» (George Mattingly Spaulding) is teaching at Mt. St. Joseph College, Baltimore, Md., and would enjoy hearing from some of the old gang. From Vera Cruz, Mexico, word reaches us that Alex Melo is working there with the Mex­ican National Power Company and, if at all possible, will be heading toward Indiana come May 20. 
Bay Smith, the Denver statistician, spent his midwinter vacation in South Bend around the first of February recuperating from an automo­bile accident and was ably entertained by Eddie Hosinski, affable furniture salesman. Carroll Wil­son, formerly of Buchanan, is now with the Standard Oil Development company in Elizabeth, 
N. J. Dr. Blanrice Regan is practicing medicine in Hollywood, Calif., and is located at 1006 N. Mariposa SL Charlie Powers, the engineer for the Southern Under\\'riters, is on the move again and this time he is located in the Bibb Bldg., Macon, Ga. Charlie is single and expects to be on hand for the reunion. 
To make our class reunion list complete v:e would like to know the present addresses of: Joe Bartone, Howard Beasley, Ellis Bloomstrom. Art Bradley, Bbnrice Brannigan, Bill Brown, the old Danville flash, Angnsto Cantanjal. Bill Cleary, John J. Conroy, Phil Duffy, AI Ferlini, Bill FIahs\-Tn, Tom Flannelley, Joe Hamcy, Hu­bert Hogan. Paul Koprowski, Johnny Alaloney, Ron McEacfaen, Oiariie Podlaski, Carl Palomini, Jim Rudolf and Jim Strong. 
193 9 Junes T- Iffoe, 328 South Jefferson 
• '^ " Chicaco, Illinois. 
From Jim Igoe: 
Don Rsnin, the tall, dark and handsome lad from Oak F^k, is now married and lives in New York. Don and his wife, formerly a Chicago girl, live in the same apartment building with the Florence MacCarthys. Both Don and Mac have one child each. 
Joe Hn^es is now a full-fledged M.D. practic­ing in Columbus, Ohio. The confidential report of Jack Gcddcs is that Joe is a bit hea\'y. Those of you who remember Joe on the fourth floor of St. Ed's hall will find this hard to believe. 
Ted Kremer. after leaving Notre Dame in '31, went to Western Reserve University where he became an excellent fullback. Ted is now a law­yer and has been married for about six months. 
Vince Cavanangh married a nice Irish gal last month. At his pre-nuptial stag I spotted Phil • Danlea\7 and Benny Blikes. It was reported as a rumor last month that Phil was in the Army. This is now authentic so you can tell it to all your friends. He is in the Intelligence Division at Rantoul, III. Benny was trying to pick up some money for shoes for his new son in a pinochle game. John Herfastritfs latest is a boy. 
This is all the information I could get for this issue. During the last month I sent out over 20 postcards, requesting information and letters, to various fellows throughout the country. To date no answers. Please, for .gosh sakes, please write me a letter giving some information on yourself and any of the fellows that you have seen. Even if it is a little, jot it down and send it. 
EdHn4 MmUxty, 1127 Femdon RoU. 1933 A n AiWr, mcUffan. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1934 H. Robert CaUB. Attletic AMMASIIMU. Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Vince HcAloon. '34, was a recent caller in the Alumni Office, He is doing promotional •work for the niird Order of St Francis and is working out of St. Louis. 
Ralph Roffers is now airport manager for the Pan Anttrican-Grace Ainvays, Inc., and may be reached by addressing him in care of that com­pany in Lima. Peru. 
«Q9 E FranUya C. Hodurcltcr, 341 
• '^^ An., S t Looi^ BOnoori. 
FVom Hoch: 
There was some confusion of thought and structure in the February issue due to proof reading, when w e talked about Hill and McGrath, but we expect that you made it out anyway. 
Well, since our last shot at the crowd, two let­ters came through, and from two of the gang back from the dead. Ned Rowan tuned in from Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and Cliff Welsh got the wave length down Whippany in the Commonwealth of Jersey. For these two bits of assistance we are most grateful, and now await your combined reaction to our comments that have just come off the press. We need a lot more Rowans and Welshes to keep this column on the griddle. What about it? 
Ned reported on our Federal Bank Examiner correspondent, Frank Hollahan. Ned writes that Frank has found an increase in his professional work, but we think that the chief reason for his silence was his added responsibility in the way of a wife. (We won't forgive you for not writing and letting us in on it though, Hollahan.) 
Frank was married way back last September. 
It was a native Wilkes-Barre maiden named 
Louise Rita Goeckel. Iliey are living in Lancas­
ter, Pa. Ned was the "best man" at the wedding. 
The Rowan man took his law degree at George­
town last June and at the present time is in 
the ranks of thousands of budding barristers 
awaiting the silver lining that is sure to follow 
the cloudy present. There is a prospect for Ned 
though, as he is working on a government con­
tact Hope you make it, Ned! 
Ned wrote that Blatt Brown, ex. '35. of rosy complexion and fond memory, also took his de­gree last spring at the Washington law school and has returned to Springfield, Ohio, to practice on the local folks. 
Cliff Welsh sent along a clipping that told of the announcement being made on New Year's Eve at the Hotel Robert Trent in Newark. His bride-to-be was not unknown to your scribe dur­ing his days in New York City a few years back, and we can vouch for Cliff's choice. She is Sara (Sally) May Webster of Parsippany-Troy lEIIs, N, J. To both of you here is to an early wedding date and loads of happiness and good luck. 
Now to bring you up to date on the Welsh lad and his doings of the last few years. We quote directly from his letter: 
"Last year I was appointed on the Township Fire Commission and have since been elected secretary. Have appeared in plays for the newly-formed Little Theatre in the Township — in the last one I had to assume the leading role. ("Die other fellow in the town wasn't home — that's the reason.) Being director of a junior bugle and drum corps, and scoutmaster of a hustling group of 30 boys also keeps me moving. .. . 
"As your last column stated, I am teaching in the Whippany Junior High School, and I love i t This is my third year in the educational field, and I think I'm beginning to learn some of the fundamentals. Teaching is far superior to bank­ing — even though I haven't lost complete con^ tact with the First National as I work there during vacations. 
**One of the outstanding days in the bank was Aug. 13 (Friday) 1937. We experienced a hold-up, and I had nervous spells for some time after­wards." 
You really have a full schedule. Cliff, and we appreciated your taking time out to drop us the interesting note. Incidentally, we are still wait­ing for the reply to our question about a mutual friend. 
Cliff writes that Bob Tansey, ex. '35, is being married on Washington's Birthday. 
The prospective bride and groom were in Phil­adelphia to see N.D. take over Pennsylvania and ran into Bill Smith, who is reported as having had a successful year as head coach of the As-bury Park state champs. 
Some of the New York gnng is seen occasion­ally, such as Louis Grosso, Phil Heinle and Ed Kirhy. Tom. Flynn drops into ^new now and then, and Emilo Gerrauo is carrying on as a special ofHcer in Morristown. Liberio Cifrese is running a flower shop in Dover. Nothing like being in business for yourself — if you can make it pay. 
Gunner McGrath and Jim Hill have dropped in since we last went to press for additional visits. Gunner anticipates returning to the banking business in Sedalia, while Jim is finding his work with the student division of the N.Y.A. dcnibled with the new defense program. 
We met Fred McNeil on the street one day and he was much griped about the fact that he would have to take a year's leave at government expense beginning Feb 20. We don't blame Fred for his con\*ictions — we share them. 
That's about it. It will boil down to less than last month, so how about sending in the ole chatter so we can bring this column up to the old standards we once used to set for other classes? 
Vermont C. Barter, of South Bend, recently was appointed to a position in the guidance de­partment of the Central High School, South Bend. 
IQ^ X John Horan. 61 E. 95th St, Apt 2. I TO O u^^ YoA City. 
S-Year Reunion 
Class of 1936 
May 30, 31. June 1 
From John Moran: This month we'll take only a quick sidelong look in the old crystal ball that we dig out whenever this column has to be written and we haven't had any letters from you hibernating he-men, ^ e quick look will suffice because the mail man rang the bell four times since the last issue, and that, my uncommunicative urchins, is really an avalanche of mail for this column. Yeah, man! 
First of all came an announcement from Was^e Thnrm. Oneida, Iowa, that Richard Thomas Thurm arrived on Jan. 27. Congratulations to you and Mrs. Thurm, Wayne, and you might let Coad Leahy know that he has a good fullback prospect for the 1961 team. 
Leo HcFarlane, the old hill-and-dale man, came through with a fine letter in answer to our request for information from the '36ers who had gone into the Army or Navy. Says Leo: 
"Enlisted in the V-7 class of the Naval Reserve last July in Detroit and set out on a naval career. We left for New York, Aug. 16, and arrived there the next day. Immediately our group went aboard the Wyoming for a month's cruise. While still loading up the second day in preparation for leaving I saw Steve Bfiller, Blarty Bams and Ckariie C«le. Seemed like a reunion. 
**On the cruise we took in Cuba, the Panama Canal and Ibmpton Roads. We were released in New York on Sept. 13 to await our instructions for midshipmen land schooling. That was some experience. 
"I registered recently and drew number 3,440 which was drawn 24th in the selections at Wash­ington. My papers are already made out and filed, and I'm glad to set started early. Notre^ Dame has certainly given her share of men to the services. On the Wyoming last summer were 15 N.D. graduates or undergrads out of slightly more than 500 men aboard. 
"Met Ed Momn, *34, and George Demetrio, *35, in Chicago recently. Both are doing well. Ed is with the Tyne Co.. and George is working for the Palmer House. Had BiU Steinkemper on the 'phone and he sounded like the same old Bill, full of fun and humor." 
Thanks very much for your interesting letter, Leo, and lots of luck in the Army. Meanwhile, if you run across any other N.D. men while in ser­vice, let us know. 
More news about the draft, and a very worth­while suKgcstion regarding the activity of NJ>. men in the Services came from Joe Mansfield, the demon announcer whom the "Scholastic," in a blissful moment, once described as "The Golden Voice of WSBT." Joe writes as follows: 

"First of all, thanks for your Christmas card. I also received cards from some of the other members of the class whom I'll get around to writing shortly. The old draft has landed on John Desmond with the result that he is now uj)­holding the honor of N.D. at Fort Bragg, N. C. T daresay there are other N.D. men • located at the same place. And that gives me an idea which perhaps you might be able, through the 'Alum­nus,* to give the needed publicity. There must be scores of N.D. boys in the services at the present time. Why not form an N.D. club at each post. It would give the boys a chance to get together as in the old days and also it might lead to a vig­orous Catholic Action movement. What do you think of the idea?" 
Well, Joe, as one whose draft number will be called in the not-so-distant future, I'm all for it and have already written BiU Dooley of the Alum­ni Association and passed along the idea to him. If the boys who go into the Army, Navy or Ma­rine Corps will comply with our recent request and advise us where they are located, we will keep a directory of their whereabouts for the in­formation of other '36ers who are moving from one post to another, or who are just going into ser\*ice. The knowledge that one of your own classmates is stationed at a particular camp will be particularly valuable to those who are to be transferred there. So what say, you soldiers, sailors, marines, and air-men. Send along your letters and let the rest of the gang know where to look you up. 
But to get back to Joe's letter: "Speaking of radio, another N.D. lad is in the business here in FVovidence (R. I.). Ed O'Connor, '39. is with one of the rival outfits and is doing a fine job. 
"I see Ed Crotty and Hugh Devote quite often. Ed is coaching basketball at Providence College and has been having a fine season. So far he has dropped only one game, and that to one of the best clubs in the East, namely Khode Island State. Earl Brown, '39, now at Brown U., has been appointed to the basektball coaching job at Harvard. 
"The family is well. As yet we haven't any fullbacks in the fold, but the two St. Mary's prospects are thriving. As far as I'm concerned, things are pretty much the same. Since the foot­ball season closed, I've been taking things easy. I hope to do baseball in the spring and summer. That's about all there is for the moment. Let me know all about the plans for the reunion. I'll be there." 
That was a fine letter, Joe. 

The last letter of the month was from Bad Goldman, who dropped a line to say that Pitts­burgh weather was getting murkier and colder every week. Bud is connected with the Penn Optical Plan, Inc., Suite 808, Professional BIdg., Pittsburgh.. 
And that winds up the mail for this issue. At the N.Y. alumni meeting in February at the Hotel Commodore we saw Joe Sdimidt, who. was drafted on Feb. 14, and reported to Camp.Dix; Ed Neaher, who is married, studying law at night, and serving as secretary to Judge Edward S. Dore of the Apellate Division; and Joe Donnino, Bin Walsh, and Frank Hnrray. 
Bill Walsh informed us that Jnstin Haiinen recently called him up while in New York on a visit, Justin, who took his law degree at Kansas, was reelected county attorney of Coffey County, Kansas, for the second time last fall. This was something of a feather in the Hannen bonnet as the county went Republican and Justin was the third Democrat ever to gain office in the county. 
Doc Murray is now located at French Hospital here in New York, and reports that he is doing very well. Biff Flannery called up before the 
N.Y.U. game regarding tickets, and incidentally passed along the word that BiU Shea, in addition to being admitted to the bar, is now serving as secretary to Congressman William Pheiffer (R) of New York. Congratulations, Bill. 

At the N.Y.U.-N.D. basketball game in Madi­son Square Garden we bumped into Walt Matose­vich, who recently returned from an engineering assignment in Peru. Walt was looking fine and reported that he is now located with the Cerro De Pasco Copper Co., in their New York office, room 4712. 40 Wall St. Sitting with us at the game, and enjoying the final 41-38 score as much as we did, was Jim Kirby, the most traveled auditor in the U.S.A. By now Jim is probably up in New Hampshire again, or down North Car­olina. 
At a radio broadcast before the N.Y.U. game which featured an interview with acting-coach, Ray Meyer, '38, we met Johnny Hopkins, of Elizabeth, N. J. John reported that he is with John A. Cairns & Co., advertising agency, at 45 East 17th St.. N.Y.C., and doing very well. We inquired about AuRgie Churdi and a few more of the Jersey contingent, but John reported that he'hadn't seen many of the boys lately. So what say, you '36ers from Jersey. — break down and come through with a few letters. 
Your scribe is driving to Dallas. Texas, in March to do the honors as best man at his brother's wedding. While enroute we hope to stop by and say hello to as many of the '36 gang as we can reach. In the meantime, we need your letters to keep the home fire burning. Particular­ly would we like to hear from you men in the ser\-ices. And since we couldn't close any column without a reference to our Five-Year Reunion, we'll just remind you that the long week-end. May 30 (Memorial Day), May 31, and June 1 is ideal for getting back to the campus. Plan NOW to attend. See you then. 
From recent Alumni Office record changes: 

Thomas J. Vicars is a state auditor and is living at 613 E. Washington St., Pontine, III. Lawrence F. Sibr is living at 5659 S. Maplewood Ave., Chicago, and is a cartage contractor in the city. James J. Siddall is secretary to 'the presi­dent of the Acme Steel Co., Chicago, and lives at 7724 Yates Ave., Chicago. 
Donald Richard McKay is an interne in a Fargo. N .Dak., hospital and is living at 523 13th St. South. Maurice F. WaUentacfa is connected with the Retail Credit Co., Chicago, and is living at 37 S. Porter St., Elgin. 111. Alfred H. RoM is a Chicago insurance broker and lives at 1007 Forest Ave., Wilmette. IlL 
John W. Tobin is connected with the R. A. Kelly Co., Anaconda, Mont., and may be reached. by addressing him in care of that company. Dr. 
N. F. Gdirinier, ex. '36. cousin of the famooa Charlie, is the new plant physician of the Tellow Truck ft Coach Manufacturing Co., of Fbntiae, Mich. 
 Fvley, 9I» Hawtlwiite 
1937 Paid 
Grooe Psiiite, MicUsan. 
From Paal Fafey: Apparently all the able-bodied remnants of the '37 vintage have taken to the tall timber, or have silently packed up their tents to slink into the night — avoiding the draft, no doubt. In any event our correspondence has dwindled to a trickle. 
Of course some news-heavy epistles may have gone astray while we were in the process of moving. But until th ^ tighten the IGehisaa mortgage foreclosure law our address will be as in^cated at the head of this colutnn — with the grace of God. and a meat axe. 
First comes word from Washington, I>. C . from a "Cbnstant Reader" identifying himself as Bemic Nieacr, who is living at 1311 19th street, 

K.W. Bemie takes issue with some of our pre­vious statements in his regard, but in a fine, friendly way. 
Bemie was with the firm Niezer & Niezer until Dec. d and was then singled out from this 130­million for an apiwintment as a junior attorney in Washington with Federal Security Agency. Just what brand of legalistic security is being handled by friend Niezer is not known at the moment, but he says he has "a fine i>osition and enjoys it very much." If he's not careful Sam Fettengill will be writing a novel about him. 
Attorney Niezer, in the course of his investiga­tions, has run into Dan SaBiTan and Clem Mc­Gowan, both of whom are gum-shoeing for the 
F.B.I. In fact Niezer reports that this so-called F.BJ. is nothing but a Capital branch of Jim Armstmng'a ofFice. Which is a rather dire trcoid we think. Think of the dues collection angle alone t 
Confirming our recent screed on Al Sdiwartz, our junior attorney, says that Al was present at the Iowa game and has "done all right by him­self!" 
Didc McArdk, we are told, has been married with all the attendant fanfare including ushers, of whom Niezer was one. Dick is with the Wayne Knitting Mills, with headquarters in St. Paul, We are not informed of his specific duties, but he is probably purling away at some sweaters and socks for our boys who are seeing the world in khaki. 
Dick, we are told, meets up rather regularly with Ed Kath and Jolui Metcalf, both in Duluth. John is working for the local bank and has gained 20 pounds. (Signs of the times). 
Speaking of the "boys in khaki," we must have a rather ^zeable contingent by now, but only an occasional dribble of such goings on reaches us. We do know for sure, however, that one of "our men" is with the 119th Medical Regiment, Co. C, 44th Division at Fort Mx, N J. "Our man" in this case is Ben Sdwrer, Jr. We arc not informed of Ben's oftidal status hut since he left Mamaroneck, N. Y., on Jan. 21, and wrote us shortly after that, we doubt whether he is yet wearing the colonel's bar. 
Closer to home. Bob "Slick" Hart is biting his nails and expecting to hear hourly from his par­ticular branch of the Coast Guard Artillery. BoVs. number was up, so he "ji'ned-up" and will be ushered into service pronto. 
In spite of this meager information we sleep a sounder sleep with such men as Scherer and Hart at their posts. 
By word of mouth we hear from some of the Chicago contingent, but only in fragments. For instance: We understand Hago Melcfctane is no longer in California. He was doing movie art work on the coast, but rumor has it that such is no longer the ease. With that rather negative assertion, we wait word of Helchione. 
Gcae Lies was called away from Chicago and back to his native Cleveland by the deatii of his 
father some months ago, we are told. Gene was \i-ith the "Chicago Tribune." 
From Westfield, N. J., comes engraved news which is not sorpnsing. It chronicles the fact that at ten o'clock on Saturday morning. Feb. 22. in Holy Trinity Church. John Austin Gillespie takes unto himself a spouse in the person of Mary Elizabeth Gilbert (Betty to the bo3'S on the block). We expect high-jinx in Jersey and wish we could have been on deck for the affair. 
Thus endeth the second 1941 canto. 

Ardi G. Graham, Jr., has become afHliated with the law iirm of Doran & Hanion of South Bend, Ind. His new associates are M. Edwrard Doran. 
•20. and Prof. Clarence E. Manion. '22. the latter an instructor in the Notre Dame Law School. 
William A. Lieaer and Harold V. Alarley are to be June graduates of Western Reser\'e University Medical School and each has accepted internship in Charity Hospital. Cleveland. 
Basil G. Gillespie, C.S.C., Brooklyn, N. Y.. received the black habit of a seminarian of the Congregation of Holy Cross at SL Joseph's Novi­tiate, Rolling Prairie, Ind.. on Feb. 1. Basil had spent the first semester of the year as a prefect in Howard Hall. 
IQ9 A Harold A. Williams, 308 East Lake 
• '^O j^y^^ Baltimore, Blaryland. 
From Hal Williams: Here's the news from the *38 boys for the March issue — dra^vn from six or seven letters and one visitor. 
First, our ace correspondent from Chicago, Ed Brennmn: 
"We are a month or two premature with our annual communique, but we can take the hint you dropped in the December "Alumnus" ahout a dispatch covering the activities of the Chicago contingent. 
"Cupid, aided and abetted by the Burke-Wads­worth bill, has taken a shuddering toll, but In each case the arrow has left the bow long before it struck. So without further ado, here's what some of us mid-westerners are doing, have done, and will do. 
"We start with the promising utility magnate, John Bourke, who last summer chose to share his life with the former Winifred Pendergrast, a Chicago girl. Replete with the exactitude befitting the dignity of his firm, John already has peeled off two years under the wing of the Common­wealth Edison Company. Jade Sexton continues a buyer for the food products concern of John Sex­ton and Company. We know little of Jack's per­sonal exploits, so rather than put ourselves out on a limb, we'll omit them for the time being. 
"Hiree months ago Gresr Kelly waived bye-bye to the classified advertising department of the, "Chicago Daily News" to take up his new post as a copywriter for the Chicago Mail Order Co., a direct mail advertising firm. Across town, on North Michigan avenue. Jack Hughes argues about the war, politics, and the stock market. while in his spare time he completes his second full year in the "Chicago Daily Tribune's" circu­lation department. 
"Add the names of John Thomas and Len Skog­lund to those who last autumn swapped the free­. dom of bachelorhood for the blissful servitude of conjugality. Fat and well fed. John Is looking for­ward to another good year in the traffic depart­ment of T^ans-Continental and Western Airlines, Inc. Though we haven't seen Len lately, we know he's still with the accounting firm of Haskins and Sells, and at present is stationed in South Bend. "Most recent Chicagoan to spurn the rigors of firearms and khald is BUI Armel. who in Novem­ber plighted his troth to winsome Jane Pryor. formerly of St. Mary's. Bill is doing a good job of selling for the Nubian Paint and Varnish Com­pany of Chicago. like intentions were e\inced by 
Frank O'Laucfalin, when on Christmas Day he got himself all engaged to Miss Marie Griffin, of St. Louis. Frank is well into his second year sell­ing wholesale coal for the Chicago office of Con­solidated Coal Co.. also of St. Louis. The suy still has nerve enough to tell us all his recent visits to the Mound City were on business. (Read­ers reserve the option of their own conclusions.) 
"A Christmas card signed 'Grayce, John and Jackie' means that Mr. and Mrs. John Francis have invested in a high chair for their four-month-old son. John has been appointed advertis­ing manager for the Berry Asphalt Co., Chicago. The amiable and persevering Dick Carrigan is an undaunted pioneer if there ever was one. From his home on the far north side he makes his daily pilgrimage to the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Company where he contributes his part in turn­ing out the precious metals vital to Uncle Sam's security. 
"We don't see much of Phil Kirch, Bob Shea, and Nick Lamberto, the unholy three from our neighboring tall com state. Since the blow-up of the Chicago "Herald-Examiner" ovfir a year ago, Nick and Phil have scuttled their journalistic ventures to turn loan sharks. [Editor's note — for the . latest Lamberto exploits, see his own letter a little later on.] Bob puts in his eight hours for the W. A. Alexander' Insurance Com­pany, with offices in Chicago's stately Held Building. 
"And so another year has rolled by. If our Government doesn't send us along on an extended tour, you can count on us again in 1942. Neither space nor limited sources permit us to include all our friends, but we've done our best. As for myself, I'm still selling advertising space for two trade publications: 'Plumbing and Heating Jour­nal' and 'Aero Digest,' biggest and second oldest book in the aeronautical field." 
Thanks. Ed, for another fine letter. I hope you won't keep the readers waiting another year 'be­fore you favor us with one of those Brennan gems. 
Writes Nick Lamberto from 914 Jackson street, 

Sioux City, Iowa: 
"Here I am out in Sioux City working for the Sioux City "Tribune." I started on Jan. 4. I'm 'swingman* — cover district court and police two days, am telegraph editor two days, and edit and make-up the women's page one day. The latter job is my headache but it is not too bad. After quitting Edward Hines Lumber Company last July I worked for International News Service at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago. Tlien I went to New York for a short time. When I came back I started with Household Fiance Company and worked there until my present job came along. I had an appointment with the Air Corps Cadets and was slated to go in January but sent in my resignation when the real thing came along. 
"John Beer, Bob AlcCIain, Fred Noon, Bafc Shea, and Paul Glass still holds down the apart­ment at 1500 North Dearborn. We had quite a farewell party New Year's Eve. . . . N.D. fel­lows are in a minority around here, so any news about them is welcome. . . ." 
In your ^^are moments you fellows might drop the Iowa Westbrook Pegler a line and inclose your favorite recipe for his woman's page. 
The next letter will give you an idea on what thrilling lives your classmates lead — particular­ly when they go to New York for the Notre Dame-Army game. Take it away John -Cleatr and be sure to duck when you see the bullets. 
Writes John in a shaky hand, "When in New York at the Army game I had somewhat of an experience that doesn't happen every day. Some fellow shot his wife near the Times Square Hotel while I was standing a short distance away. When somebody cried 'stop' the fellow started runnins; up the street directly across from us. I started for him but someone grabbed me. He then started shooting at me but luckily the shots hit a nearby taxieab. The nun escaped by running down an alley but he was caught the next day. 
"And now for even more exciting news. Miss Mary J. Cronan and 'yours truly' have become engaged; it hapi>ened at Christmas with the final step to be taken in June — if Uncle Sam doesn't catch tip with me within that time. 
•*Pete Gay was elected a councilman of Taun­ton, Mass., in an election last month. Heard from Art Sclna (Christmas card) and at least I know he's still alive. I^iil Shields also forwarded, one of the same as did Mr. and Mrs. Bad Sherwood. . . . Greff Rice was in Boston Jan. 11 and once again beat the pants off Don Lash and the rest of the field. He cert^nly is a favorite in Boston, 
— the crowd goes wild over him. Well, I am go­ing ice boating now so will have to say adieu." 
I had a letter from Bob Sherwood several weeks ago and he writes that he is recovering fast from his illness and that the doctor let him get out of bed on Dec. 23. He expects to get back to his old job with General Motors in Tarrytown, N. Y., about the first of May. Ticer HcGrath writes from Catholic University in Washington that everything is fine even though he was down with the flu for a short time just before he had to grapple with the mid-year exams. Tom Hatdiinson wrote me a long, illiterate letter several weeks ago but the epistle is so egotistic that it is not worth quoting. 
Boh Wehater, working in the technical depart­ment of the cellulose products division of the Dow Chemical Company, Midland, Mich., was in Baltimore on Jan. 13 while making a business trip through the East. I spent the morning with Bob and he told me that everything is fine in the mid-west and that he has one swell job. Bob gave me a little news about some of the boys while we were having lunch at the Lord Balti­more Hotel but I didn't have my pencil with me so I couldn't write the information down. Hence I have forgotten it. 
Hal Langton, now living in Baltimore, called 

me the other night and said that he is in the 
plumbing business and malung all kinds of 
money. He is rounding up the N.D. boys now liv­
ing in Baltimore and asking them to write Gre^ 
Rice to invite him here for a track meet in March. 
That's all the news for the month. Still no 

news about any of our boys being drafted. 
Joe W. Kmpa, ex. '38. is teaching and coach­

ing at the highschool in Rickreall. Oregon. He is 
living in the Post Office Building. 
Jahn A. O'Lcary is in the Legal Department of 

the National Catholic Welfare Council, Washing­
ton, D. C. He is working there under the noted 
WiUiam F. MonUvon, '98, N.C.W.C. attorney. 
John and Major Bob Riordan had a good chat 
when Bob was in Washington recently. 
1939 
Viaccat DtCmrmr, S«5 Biwli CiMk, City, ! 
From Vincc DeCoarsey: In the interest of national defense (a spirit commendable, if unnecessary) the-boys this month went on a paper-saving spree — with only two-fifth columnists showing up with communications of sny sort. To further this worthy c&use this month's literary effort will be in keeping viitii the times, an "all-out" drive for the nation's security: we, therefore, sacrifice inches in type and paper to serve onr country. All of which means that this particular month's column is goins; to he short because of lack of letters. Marie MItckell. my old "Scholastic" boss came throng with a handsome card inviting me to attend his wedding in Chicago — certainly wish that I could go, but anyway, wish him the best of luck. Then, too. J. J. SaUivan. pride of New Bedford, announced nuptials recently with Hiss Ann HcGoven, of Attleboro, Mass., as the bride. Bab H«etlwr wrote saying that he and his new 
bride managed to get back, after a few delays — includine: spending New Year's Eve in Bed Elk, Okla. — and are happily engaged in hoosekeep­ing in North Hollywood, Calif. The rest of the news has been stipplied by word of mouth. Two visitors in town this week: Joe Rizzi* here to audit the books of Sears, Roebuck for Rankin & Co., and Lidw Tieman, installing international business machines in the office of the quartermas­ter's depot here. 
Joe took Al Sdiraitz, my wife and myself to dinner one night here. He is in good shape, a 
C.P.A. and doing fine. Reports that Norm Jan­doli is w^orking for an accounting Arm in East Orange, N. J.; that Joe Lewis is with Goodyear Rubber (I think it's Goodyear) in Nashville, and that Fred Digby has just left the employ of that New Orleans paper, but Joe didn't say what Fred is doing now. ? 
Luke Tieman, Tom and Dotty Rcardon, Helen and I spent a very enjoyable evening in the re­formed hotspots of K. C. 
There's little else of any interest, except that I have decided that the brokerage business isn't. • Beginning with the first of the year I have been trying to sell ice cream and learn how it is made 
— and if you think that Is a good job in January, try it some time. Last week I went to Fort Riley and Camp Funsten and looked around at the places some of the boys are going to call home for a year or so; I was really surprised; It Isn't bad at all — and the food will be good. 
That Is really all the news I have. I wonder if Digby, Fred Sisfc, Frank Pariu, Carl Fricke, Bill Donnelly, Frank Fitch (with Carson, Pirie, Scott in Chicago Instead of Montgomery Ward), Didc Anton will write by next time — and paper economy be hanged. 
A word about Charles Colgan would be much in order. Charley, according to Rizzi, was ranked first in his class at Columbia Law School — a high honor for our boy. 
Dave McskiU, Long Hill Acres, R.F.D. No. 4. Bridgeport, Conn., sends some welcome news. 

- Dan Kelly, '39, Forest Hills, N. Y., was up the. other day for an interview at G.E. and can have a job if he wants it. He had several offers, appar­ently, and since I haven't heard from him yet ho may have taken one of the others, since he wanted to stay In New York. 
With G.E. here there are now five graduates that I know of. Of older classes, Frank Rooney, one of Father Nienwland's chemists, has a good job in the Works Laboratory, 'and Jeny Andres in doing a good job in the Radio Division. I'm the lone 1939 man. doing accounting for the Appliance Division, while from 1940 are Herb Connelly and Tom Schmid, from Oil City, Pa., and Dubuque, Iowa, resi>ectively, and in the Radio and Wiring Materials accounting sections. Connelly. Incidentally, got married last summer shortly after coming here. 
Also in and around Bridgeport are Harry Norria ('38. '39, and '40). John Pinas, '37, and Jack Horan, '40, who are all with United Air­
• craft's Vought Sikorsky plant. John Luke Hc-Gainess, '39, civil engineer, is a government in­spector working at the Chase Brass Co. in Water­bury. I'm to have the pleasure, incidentally, of being best man for Luke when he marries Elinor Sullivan In Waterbury. Alan Donovan, '36. Harvard Law, '39, Is a claim adjuster for Trav­eler's in Bridgeport. Jim Tansey, '39, is teaching In New Haven and just received an offer for teaching high school afternoon term for the rest of the year. James (Mickey) McFarland is still working for a New Haven dairy, while Paul Locher, '38, is teaching at Cheshire School in Cheshire, Conn. John Tormey, *39, Is working for I.BJtf. and was recently transferred from Boston. where he was a junior salesman, to Hartford where he is a senior salesman and In a good spot. Barney Sullivan was working as a claim adjuster 
In Boston until last week, when Liberty Mutual transferred him to Detroit. 
Ralph F. Wachter has been appointed aty chemist of Frederick, Hd. His appointment is efiTective June 15 next. Ralph is at present on . the chemistry staff at Catholic U., Washington, 
D. C. Greg Rice continues his string of victories in the N.Y.A.C. meet, the Seton Hall InviUtional, the Boston K. of C. meet and others. Or 
do you read the papers? And did yon see Gres under "Spotlight Alumni" in the February issiwT 
IQdA ^'^^ ^- Sanford. 3»M K. XuflMi 
• '^^ ^ Are.. BOhnMkec, WiMMuim. 
Bob Sanford writes that he is very bn^, work­ing at least 12 hours per day and even working overtime a few hours on Sunday. He sends eanm letters and promises to be back in the harness next month. Dave Sprafke reports (via Sanford): "From Gerald E. Horrissey, in Attleboro, Mass., comes a lament that he cannot get in tondi with fellow CIvils. He has been working for the New England Power Association, having started In the Boston office and later transferred to IJttleton, 
N. H., for six month's experience. In January he was sent to the Attleboro Steam and Electric Co., a branch of the parent organization. May I edio Gerald's questions: Where are the Civils keying themselves ? 
"By the time this reaches print. Rnsscll Nod King will be married. The date: Feb. 8. Rnss in­tends to reside in Buffalo with his bride. He is employed there in the Worthlngton Pump Cor­poration. 

"Ed Hart has been working in Rochester for the past month. Dick Witte has joined the Coast Guard and is teaching radio at the training sta­tion in Baltimore. Dick has promised to look tip Burt Hail and Jim Kelly employed there. BUI Cleaty is still working hard in New York and going to school nights. 
**BiU Small is with Brown, Crosby ft Co.. in­surance brokers. New York. Joe Whitford is now in Chicago. Bob Sayia is working in New York. Thanks to Russell JandoU for a splendid letter. Rtiss Is now sinking his teeth into the second semester work at Columbia. Bob Doagherty was down Connecticut way during the Christmas hol­idays and contacted Joe Lavery. Harry Stevenson is now with General Electric in Bloomfield, N. J. 
"Johnny Else has been making strides with 

G.M. in Detroit. Splendid reports have been com­ing In about him. Bob Bard was able to leave Los Angeles for a short visit to Pittsburgh dur­ing the holiday season." 
Next, there was a letter (via Sanford) from Red Martin, 18110 Aberdeen Rd., Jamaica, Long Island. Red says: 
"My roommate. Dong Bangert, has signed up with the Naval Air Corps. He and Bill TnduAr and Paul Linndian, just finished their prelimi* nary training at Floyd Bennett field in New York and are awaiting further orders which will send them to cither Pensacola or Jacksonville for further training. Doug and F^ul Iiave switched to the Marines, hut Bill is still with the Navy. 
"Julie Bercik is taking off weight so that he will be able to get Into the Army Air Corps. As soon as he loses about 10 more pounds he'll be working for his wings — he took life too easy as a guide at the Chrysler exhibit at the World's Fair this summer. Tom Philpott joined up with the Marines last fall and he's somewhere down South right now. George Haggerty is also a mem­ber of the Marines. As soon as Den StaplctMi graduated In February he was Inducted into the Army for his one year. What with all these fellows getting into uniform I feel sort of up-patriotic for my number is over 2,800 In my local board. 
'•Bin Donnelly was over here New Year's Eve. Right now he's teaching Latin and English at the Rhodes Sdiool in New York and staiyias for the New York Oty teadi«s' exams. lUxkm and he have just annoonccd their riigst*iWMiL 
**E4 MTIIS^IIMM and Bsb Fnst ar« hath' hitting the books at Georgetown Med. SdwoL Chack Patcna-is worUns hard at Loos Islaad Medical CoUcge where Ssl Scailata is in Us sse­ond year. Sal, by the way, announced his engasa­ment to a giri across the street from mt dnrins the vaeatioQ. 
"I was talking to Daa Kd ^ a few days aco and, as nsoal, we got to talking about joba. B t sud there are plenty of them aroond Nsw Toric right now since all the conipsnifs aia cxpanfinc with the rearmament program, so mayba aU tba boys will be getting nice salaries in a year or two. 

"I7p at F(»dham with me P*Ce Maitati is-still the same hog on hooks that he was at NJ>. Every once in a while be comes in with a new text en Property or ContraeU <Hr the like. He claims that he is working so hard with law and his job'that he hax^ has time to see his wife. Jim •*••» is holding.up the Bockaway end of the class even though he has had to he the guiding Uii^t for Pete RriUy who recently found that he was near­ly blind. He went to have his eyes tested and found that he had a dickens of a time rea^Bns the doctor's chart. Now he has passes and he is lost beginning to see the si^t s of New York. Lake Laereix completes the NJX group and he is still' the comedian he was at N.D.; whenever he gets up to recite he has the class and the profs in tba aisles before he is. finished. 
"By the way. have yoa heard from Tsd JadMsm? Mac and I were talking about him dor^ ing the vacation. Joe Saulfey is working on the • advertising end of "Pt^olar Meduuues,** and Tern Miasgae. Dick Falka and Bsb Dsagberty are all up at Gotnmbia trying to find the secret of passing the bar exam. 
"Jim Brawn is working with a constmetion company whidi is building army camps in Ma^ sachusetts. and from all reports is getting along nicely. Jack Meraa is also up in New England worldng for. an aircraft concern. Bed Bowler is studying for the position of chief clerk of an Army arsenal, and any one of these days will be assigned to an arsenal somewhere in the 
V. S. From all reports this is a honey of a ic*." 
Hany H. FfciBips is in the TJ.S. Marines and is located at Qnantieo. Va. He may he addressed in care of Company "D." 
Jaaws E. Keancy, M.A. MO. is employed by the Bethlehem Steel Co., in the Billing and Schedule Divirion. He rendes at 2769 S. Park Ave.. Lackawanna, N. Y. 
Joe MaliaecB, a director of the Alumni Asso­ciation, is now a lieutenant in the Marines. Joe was at N.D. for the first semester. taUng gradu­ate courses in social work. He will be trmned initially at Philadelphia. 
James L. Delabaaty has left the "Automobile News" of Detroit and is working at the con­struction of the new dnPont plant in Kingabory* Ind. 
Many of the '40'a will remember the Gcas Sadth who resided in Freshman Hall during the 
• first semester of 1936-37, the lad who was pho­tographer for the student publications. Gtane left ­Notre Dame at the end of.the first semester of that year to attend a photography school in New ­York aty. 
Iliis is tlie same W. Eageae Smith whose bril­liant pictures yoa now see regularly, in "life.**­"Collier's** and other leading national pabHca­tiona. Gene has "made goocT' with a crash and is now one of the topnotdiers in the honness. B s can be reached in care of his ageney. Black Star, 420 Lexington Ave.. New York <Sty. He was mar­ried in New York on Dee. 9 to Carmen Martinex. 
Gene was out to the campus on Jan. SO and 

31. sent by "Collier's'' to get some pictures to illustrate an article on basketball which Coadi George Keogan had eontributed to that i 
THE 18th ANNUAL 

Universal Notre Dame Night 
MONDAY. APRri 21 

Chicago, Notre Dame's largest Local Alumni Club, will be the key city of the 1941 program. 
Plans are being la;id for a national broadcast from the Chicago meeting, featuring Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, CS.C, President of the University; Frank Leahy, newly appointed dii'ector of athletics of Notre Dame, and Frank C. Walker, Postmaster General of the United States, — all within the scope of the theme of the Night, Notre Dame Men. And — 
As a most gracious and appreciated tribute to Notre Dame and its Men, the Chicago meet­ing will have as its guest of honor the Most Rev. Samuel A. Stritch, D.D., Archbishop of Chicago. 
Announcement in detail of the national program will be sent to the Clubs as soon as de­finite, and will appear in the April issue of the ALUMNUS. 
Suggestions Generally 

1. In keeping with the general theme of empha­personnel of the Clubs as a theme, and with Notre sizing this year the Notre Dame Men of the com­Dame men generally as a background, a gi-eat deal munity, Clubs are asked to compile a brief history of very beneficial publicity ought to be possible. A of the Club, including the list of Presidents. This, committee in each Club, small and qualified, could for the Clubs organized before 1923, when the contribute heavily to the .success of the Night, both ALUJINUS was inaugurated, will be a very im­locally and generally, by handling this phase. portant contribution to the records. The Alumni OiHce, of course, wishes a copy of these histories 
5. The Office will again attempt to work out a for both reeoi-ds and publications use. 
few suggestions for local radio programs. The local Stations have been unusually co-operative in the 
2. One Club has ah'eady set about featuring the past, and they offer an invaluable channel for bring­ing Notre Dame to a large cross-section of the com­
Past Presidents as special guests on this Night. 
munity. Programs should be carefully worked out and contain real merit to repay the Stations for 3. Many distinguished men ai-e in effect Notre their intei-est. Most Stations will gladly have one Dame men by virtue of (a) an honoraiy degree (b) of their experts work with the Club on script, the Laetare Medal (c) membership in the Congre­music, etc. 
gation of Holy Cross (d) membership on the Uni­versity faculty (e) some family connection with 6. The Night is an occasion for emphasizing Notre Dame men. Many Clubs could enrich their Notre Dame, and this year in particular the Men of programs from this field. The Alumni Office will be Notre Dame. But it is not necessarily a night for happy to make suggestions. 
excluding the families and friends of Notre Dame, who share with interest the reminiscences and the 
4. The Alumni Office will try to send you a few outlines of principle and procedure which reveal the 
suggestions for basic local publicity, which will, of machine that makes Notre Dame men, the fountain course, have to be adapted. This year, with the of the spirit of Notre Dame. 






