The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
?^ ^  .«*^=^  
-^  ^^^  '•^=^%^,-..^»* .  
Vol. 29, No. I, January-February,  1951  

-r  W^m»^ ^M;H  
!U  »^.. . -••.•.;_i ! •<..3;^­ 

.l-»~' 

Zhc Notre Dame Alumnus 
VoL 29 No. 1 January-February, 1951 
James E. Armstrong. '25. Editor John P. Bums. '34.'Manoging Editor John N. Cacldey, Jr.. '37. Associate Editor 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second Aass matter OcL 1, 1939, at the Postoifice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
Table of Contents 
ALUMNI BOARD MEETING  3  
BACCALAUREATE SERMON  4  
FOOTBALLL TICKETS  6  
FOUNDATION  REPORT  ,  8  
"THE KEY TO PEACE"  9  
COMMENCEMENT  ADDRESS  10  
BOOKS  11  
CLUBS  ..._  13  
CLASSES  22  

BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS 
LEO B. WARD, '20 Jlonorary President 
R. Co.VROv ScoGcr.vs, '24 President WiLU,\M J. SHERRY, '21 First Vice-President WiLLUM B. JONES, '28 Second Vice-President EDWARD J. BECKMA.V, '16 Third Vice-President 
DIRECTORS TO 1952 
WILLIAM J. SHERRY, '21 1001 First Natl. Bldg., Tulsa 3, Okla. WILLIAM B. JONES, '26....7102 Meadow Lane, Cheay Chase 15, Md. 
R. CoNROY ScoGGiNs, '24 480 Humble Bldg., Houston, Tex. EDWARD J. BECKMAN, '16 2 East Mill Dr., Great Ne(k, N. Y. 
DIRECTORS TO 1953 
JOHN Q. ADAMS, '26 128 Highland Ave., Montclair, N. ]. HARVEY G. FOSTER, '39 327 Federal Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. RICHARD J. NASH, '23 6235 Kenmore, Chicago 23, III. DR. MATTHEW WEIS, '22 7379 Northmoor, St. Louis 5, Mo. 
DIRECTORS TO 1954 
JOSEPH S. MORRISSEY, '28 22Main St., Cincinnati, Ohio JOHN-H . NEESON, JR., '35 37 Highland Ave., Cnywyd, Pa. WILLIAM G. SCHMITT, '10 ^2765 N.W. Nicolai St., Portland, Ore. LUTHER M . SWVGERT, '27 6330 Hahman Ave., Hammond, Ind. J.J^MES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 Director and Secretary 



Class Reunions 
June S, 9, 10 
CLASSES RETURNING 
1901,'06,'11, '16 '21 '26 '31 '36 '41, '46 
FRIDAY, JUNE 8 
(all times Central Daylight Saving) 
General Registration Law Building Lobby 
Class Registration in class halls 
Golf Tournament, Class Reunion Dinners, Smokers 
SATURDAY, JUNE 9 
Class Masses, Pictures, Elections More Golf President's noon luncheon for 25-year class Baseball Game, Cartier Field, 1:30 p.m. Academic review by deans, 2:00-3:30 p.m., Wash­
ington Hall Moot Court Finals, 2:30 p.m. and Law Cocktail party. Law Building, 4-6 p.m. Annual Alumni Banquet, 6 p.m., dining hall—The 
Alumni Secretary, toastmaster Principal address, by the University President Awarding of Golf Prizes—Trainer Hugh Bums Presentation of awards to members of 50-Year Club Reports of Alumni Board Officers 
SUNDAY, JUNE 10 
10:00 a.m., Low Mass, sermon by Father.Cornelius Laskowski, c.s.c. Sacred Heart Church 
GENERAL INFORMATION 
Cafeteria Hours: 7-9:30 a.m. (Sunday, 8-9 a.m.); 
11 a.m.-1:30 p.m.; 5-7 p.m. Western Union—Incoming messages delivered 
from South Bend 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
-a-pj 
1 "^ ~
 1 
:ii 

100 Percent Alumni Participation Is Foundation Goal (or 1951 
At the annual election meeting of the Alumni Asscciation Beard of Directors, 
E. Conroy Scoggins, '24, of Houston succeeded Leo B. Ward, '20, of Los An­geles. 
Retiring Board members Ward, Fr. Vincent Brennan, '32, Joe Boland, '27, and Arthur D. Cronin, Jr., '37, were suc­ceeded by Joe Morrissey, '28, Luther M. Swygert, '27, John H. Neeson, Jr., '35, and William Schmitt, '10. 
James E. Armstrong, '25, was re­named Executive Director and John Burns, '34, assistant secretsry. Three new vice-presidents—William J. Sher­ry, '21, W. B. Jones, '28, and Edward 
J. Beckman, 'Ifi were also elected. The Board recommended that greatest emphasis for 1851 Alumni activities be placed on the Foundation Drive, with a goal of 100 per cent alumni participa­tion in contributions. A Universal Notre Dame Night slogan "Every Alumnus a Contributor" was adopted to aid the University in its critical utilities pro­gram. Selling the value of the small gift by Alumni, the Board said, should bs 
one of the major jobs of the Associa­tion through the Clubs in 1951. More 
William Schmitt, '10 

frequent discussion by local Alumni Clubs of fund raising activity was ad­vocated as a primary means of imple­menting the small-gifts program. 
Extension of the University heat, water and sewage facilities, which be-
Luther M. Swygert, '27 
Joseph S. Morrissey, '28 

came an urgent '-'MUST" with the ad­
dition of four new buildings to the pro­
gram places an immediate burden of 
fund-raising on the 1951 drive. 
The new Science Building, the Notre 

Dame Inn, the Fred and Sally Fisher 
residence Hall, and the Fine Arts 
Building will overtax existing facliities 
and expanding them to meet the new 
demands will be costly. 
Local Clubs were urged to keep rec­ords of their members who enter mili­tary service and to send to the Alumni Office all information concerning ser­vicemen so the Alvmmi Office can keep closer contact with them. Clubs also were urged to get in touch with Notre 'Dame men in military installations near the Club .arc:s and to invite them to 
Club activities. 
Continuation of the awarding of "Man of the Year" scrolls by local Clubs was recommended by the Board in approving a report by the Local Clubs Committee. The Clubs Committee further advocated establishment of the Notre Dame Family Communion Break­fast in all clubs. 
Arrangement of more family observ­ances was recommended in local Clubs. 
John H. Neeson, Jr., '33 




Fight Marxism With Spiritual Arms 
January Baccalaureate Seimon by Rev. Vincent J. Flynn 
"But they that hope in the Lord, shall reneio their strength, they shall take wings as eagles, tfiey shall •run, and not be weary, they sltall loalk, and not faint." 
—Isaias xl. 31. 
I
T IS characteristic of the race, as well as of individuals, to be subject to different temptations at different 
times. For example, when a man has 
been unusually successful in any en­
deavor he is liable to the temptation of 
pride. And when he has been notably 
unsuccessful he is liable to the tempta­
tion of despair. 
Now we of this generation are, I sub­mit, peculiarly vulnerable to the tempta­tion of despair. The world, in our day, has certainly got itself into a frightful state and while we are seeking a remedy for our plight, we could very easily abandon all hope and resign ourselves to leaden-eyed despair. 
It is precisely to remind you young men of the .Christian virtue of hope that I have quoted the ringing words of the prophet Isaias as the text of your baccalaureate sermon. For no one should have better reason to hope than the graduate of a Catholic University. No one understands better than he that ultimately truth will prevail because God is truth and God will ultimately pre­vail. For some mysterious reason, God allows evil and error to persist. But it is the doctrine of the Church that in the end truth will triumph. 

In this respect, I need not remind you, you have been privileged to receive a type of training that has been denied a great many of your contemporaries in secular institutions. For at least half a century these institutions have been growing steadily more and more irre­ligious and more and more materialistic. Let me quote from a recent editorial in a prominent Catholic Weekly: 
"It is very hard for us to get used to two very unpleasant truths. The first is that the American people are not all grounded on the rock of Christian religi­ous belief, nor are they especially gifted with the political wisdom and moral character which great statesmanship requires. Many Americans—and this is notably true of our college-trained lead­ers—^know precious little about religion and morality. 
"If our leaders long misappraised the intrinsic evil in Marxism, wculd this surprise us? You cannot educate hun­dreds of thousands of college students on pragmatism, positivism, behaviorism, Deweyism, Freudianism, skepticism or even pure hedonism and expect to pro­duce a generation of political statesmen and civic leaders with a passion for 'the values of Western civilization.' The un­dogmatic modem mind has been 'liber­ated' from these very 'values.'" 
There is no need, I am sure, to explain to this audience the nature of the false philosophies just mentioned. Suffice it to say that they all add up to the general position which denies the supernatural, which regards man as an irrational animal, truth as relative, and morals a set of superstitious tabus. 
Now it is a fact that many of the text­books in use in our colleges and uni­versities openly advocate the pernicious views to which I have referred. Lack of time prevents me from giving any­thing like a full treatment of this matter; but I should like to g^ve you four quotations from a volume of read­ings on political science published in New York in 1949. 
"One of the great tragedies of our day is that moral values . . . have actually hindered progress toward the realization of certain ideas." 
"The belief that rules of conduct are unconditionally right or wrong involves the confusion of two distinct ideas: the good and the right." 
"Justice consists not in the conform­ity of a rule to an ethical idea, but rather in rigid enforcement of law, law made by those who have achieved power and dominion over others, and see it as a means of their continuance in office." 

And as for the psychological nature of man: "The sort of understanding that changes purpose is one that a person somehow gets below the neck." 
These quotations from different au­thors in the book are a fair sampling, I think, of the whole. Other passages make practical application of the new United States is described as a capital­istic and reactionary tract; our Govern­ment is called merely a means for the exploitation of the masses; religion is described as irrelevant to our time. 
According to the publishers, at least 48 colleges and universities use this text, and it is a regrettable fact that a high percentage of texts in the fields of education, psychology, and the social sciences reflect similar views. Actually, this anthology includes the work of some seventy men and women, all of them persons of some degree of eminence in their respective fields. 
In varying degrees, and in varying ways, it is this denial of God and of the nature of man which has ruined most of Europe, which has debauched Russia, and which has brought the United States to its present fearful peril. 
But, my dear young men, let me re­peat it: you are not a part of this shame. You are inheritors of the Chris­tian culture of the past. To you is given the exalted honor of standing out against the fury of the paganism which is sweeping in upon us. Let me remind you that in a storm it is the rootless things, the flimsy things that give way. It is the tumble weed that is rolled about until it vanishes; it is the jerry-built shanty that crashes first. It is the sturdy oak that survives, because its roots are deep; it is the sturdy house built on a solid foundation which stands fast. 

This is not the first time the world has faced a crisis. Those who are forever telling us to study the future might profitably, I think, take a look at the past. They might look back to the first three centuries of Christianity, when the might of the Roman Empire was pitted against the infant Church; they might recall the confusion and chaos which reigpned for centuries in Europe after the fall of Rome; they might picture to themselves the terror that must have gripped the hearts of Europeans when the barbarians swept down from the north—even into Africa—in the 4th and 5th centuries; they might contemplate the misery wrought in the 14th and 15th Centuries during the Hundred Year's War, when, to compound the wretched­ness of the people of Europe, they suf­fered besides from the "Black Death," perhaps the worst plague of modern times. 
And we know that ultimately we can no| fail. That is our faith, that is our hope. As we read in the book of 
•Ecclesiasticus (ii. 11) "My children, be­hold the generations of men: and know ye that no one hath hoped in the Lord, and hath been confounded." To repeat the text from Isaias: "But they that hope in the Lord, shall renew their strength, they shall take wings as eagles, they shall run, and not be weary, they shall walk, and not faint." 
—Isaias xl. 31. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Harry Hogan, '04. and Arch Ward. "23. Honored at Commencement January 28 
Cover Picture: (1. to r.) Rev. Vincent J. Flynn, Rev. John Courtney Murray, S.J., Father Cavanaugh, Mr. Ward, Mr. Hogan. 
'Review of Pblilics'Has Look at Tito's Country 

Tito's Yugoslavia is now pledged to a policy of "absolute neutrality," Adam 
B. Ulam says in the January issue of the Review of Polities, quarterly jour­nal published at the University. 
Honorary degrees of Doctor of Laws were conferred January 28 on two alum­ni, a college president and a noted the­ologian as 207 graduates of the Univer­sity received diplomas in the Drill Hall. 
Harry Hogan, '04, attorney and banker of Fort Wayne, who helped or­ganize the Notre Dame Foundation, and Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chica­go Tribune were honored by the Uni­versity. 
Rev. Vincent J. Flynn, president of St. Thomas College of St. Paul and Rev. John Courtney Murray, S. J., theolo­gian and editor, of Woodstock College, Woodstock, Maryland, were the other two recipients of the honorary degrees. 
Mr. Hogan, a past graduate of the Alumni Association was the organizer of Fort Wayne's Veterans' free service facility, which became a model for com­munity service. Mr. Ward, as sports ed­itor of the Chicago Tribune, has pro­moted the All-Star Games in football and baseball, and initiated the Golden Gloves. 
Father Murray, editor of the "Theo­logical Studies" delivered the Com­mencement adderss, text of which is re­printed on page 4. 
Of the degrees conferred at the Com­mencement exercises, 181 were in the undergraduate school. Advanced degrees were conferred on 226 by the Graduate School of the University. 
Bill Mehring, '38, of Com Products Re­fining, and (Left) William Prindeville, Com­merce Senior in Placement Office. D. H. Albery, company official is at right. 

Alumni on Catholic Paper 
The Netv World, paper of the Chica­go Archdiocese has two Alumni on its recently announced advisory board. 
They are Jim Sanford, '15 and Arch Ward, '20. Sanford, '15 class secretary is president of James E. Sanford Asso­ciates, advertising and marketing ex­perts of Chicago, and Mr. Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune received an honorary LL.D. at the January Com­mencement of the University. 


Fire Complicates the Building Program 
Fire from an overheated salamander burned up $18,000 in lumber and set the building schedule for the new Science Building back an undetermined number of weeks, on Feb. 6. 
January-February, 1951 
Professor Ulam bases his judgment on a study of speeches, political re­ports, and personal diaries made, avail­able through the Russian. Research Center at Harvard. University. I^radng the history of the Yugoslav Reds since the early part of World War II, the Harvard professor concludes that Tito's party is still too fantastically Com­munist to join the West, but much too nationalistic to suit Russia. 
Still, Ulam states, the Tito-Stalin split could have been avoided if the Russians had chosen to use diplomacy. As early as 1943 Russian officials were distrustful of the "self-made .Com­munists" in Yugoslavia who refused to let Moscow run their country. Instead of trying to depose Tito by political pressure, the Russians chose to' infil­trate the Yugoslav army and govern­ment with spies. The plan backfired, and Tito bolted from the orbit of Soviet satellites. 
Rumors of a vast Balkan plot against Russiai during 1948 are dis­counted by Professor Ulam, who ex­plains that "the Yugoslav Communists were at that period in no position, either politically or psychologically, to plan an anti-Soviet bloc" When Yugo­slavia did break with Moscow, he says, it was only because the Soviet lack of diplomacy had convinced Yugoslav lead­ers that they would have to stand up against Russia "for sheer survivaL" 
Professor Francis Attends Sociological Society Meeting 
E. K. Francis, associate professor in Sociology, attended the 12th annual con­voition of the American Catholic Socio­logical Society, which was held at Loyola University, Chicago, Dec. 27-29. Dr. Francis was a speaker together with Father Furfey of the Catholic Univer­sity, to the section on Methodology, when he discussed problems of sociolo^cal re­search by Catholic scholars and made suggestions for significant research pro­jects to be undertaken partictilarly by graduate students. 
At the same meeting Dr. Francis was elected to the executive council of the ACSS. While in Chicago he also attend­ed several sessions of the American Eco­nomic Association and the'American His­torical Society. 


The 1951 Alumni Football Ticket Picture 
or. Cut-backs and Rationing, Campus Style 
Your Alumni Board at its annual Bv .M. ROBERT CVHILL. '34 January meetinjr moved that "the exist-in.u system (of alumni ticket distribu­
tion) .. . be continued." So the nus in Key West was planning to order 
Board's motion will be carried out, the a couple of Michigan States for that sy.<tem will be continued, BUT . . . old roommate in Detroit, he'ti I)est for­remembei- that old Saluration Point 
get it. The Detroit roommate will we've been muttering about these last have to make his own two do, (and few years'.' Well, it a])|)ears that S to-do, no doubt!). Day has arrived. .At least the van-Nevertheless, if Joe in Key West iruard, or its scout ])atrols. .-\ny\vay, has planned his vacation for a long trip here's the way Messrs. Supi)I.v & De­to Lansing and the game, the Ticket mand ii.srure to me.-^s u\> our heretofore Committee would still be glad to con­neat little system: sider his beef to that ef:cc':, as far as the local situation will iiermit. Up to now, we've mailed to all of ysu We're in tiouble in our own stadium, contributin.ir alumni — about ten thou­toe. From now on, we're at the point sand of you — an .Advance Sale ai)p!i-of no return on the BIG G.\MES at 
cation for every game on the schedule. home. This .vcar it's SMU. But it's -At least in theory, every contributor not so bad as the Lansing situation — had the opjiortunity to ajiply. we can still send all contributors an SMU order blank. Eut ONLY the -Ad­
Not so in l!)")!. 

vance Sale form, good for two tickets. The Michigiui S^ate game at Lansing No general-use form, no additional ticket allotment makes such a move ticket.s. And very likely NO SJIU 
absurd. Jloreover, it will iirobably be tickets to non-contributors. the Ofricial Student Trij), so why send None of the figures for the SMU out order blanks for t;cket3 v.c know categories are e.xact, nor are the allo­
we can't furni.-:h? Consetiuently, (de­cations ade(iuate, but it's the best we tails aren't yet worked out) some kind can come U]) with and yet keep every­of .geographic distribution for that body reasonably happy. We still think game will bo Vi-orked ou: by the Ticket it's lietter than no alumni i)reference Committee and your Alumni Secretary. at all, a policy followed by many 
It's not as calamitous as it sounds — schools with bigger seating capacities. yet. It only means that if Joe .-Mum-For the other games, distribution 
Here's the present breakdown on the SMU .game: Reserved Seat Cai)acity (including temporary bleachers) r)4,l<)4 Alumni (S,C()() at two each) 1(;,000 Season Tickets (IH.'iO holders cnly —no new orders) 1(;,()()0 Students and Wives 5,000 Southern Methodist allotment 12,000 Parent.-; of Students 3,000 Administration, Pre.<s, Sijuad, Faculty, St. JIary's, all others 2,1!)-! 54,1!)4 
should be the same as befo-e. We'll 20th. Forms received will offer two list br^e.ly the usual mechani:s: tickets i)er game and will be honored un*il July 14 OR UNTIL THE 
1. Advance sale to .Alumni will open TICKET SUPPLY IS EXHAUSTED. 

JUNE -20 and close JULY 14. 
4. General-use ai)i)licat!ons will be 2. Alumni contributors to the Eighth .sent to ALL alumni, for all games Annua! .Alumni Fund for I'.liio, plus EXCEPT MICHIGAN STATE .AND 
religious and honorary degree holders, SOUTHER-N METHODIST, about July will be eli.gible for lOSl alumni order loth. These forms may be used for forms (excei)ting Michigan State as orderin.g additional tickets but carry noted above). 

no priority. They are acceptable only 

3. .A.lumni forms will be mailed to AFTER -Alumni .Advance .sale closes contributors as stated ]>rior to June July 14. if any tickets remain. 
5. General public sale will open as customary on -August 1. The Ticket Committee will be pleased to send gen­eral blanks to anyone you may desig­nate as long as tickets are available. 
G. -Alumni Clubs planning to spon­sor excursions should notify the Ticket Committee or the -Alumni Secretary not later than June JO, for tentative reser­vations. Obviously, we cannot handle requests for blocs of tickets for Michi­gan State or Southern Methodist. 
Record January Enrollment 
-A record total of 4,822 undergraduate and graduate students are enrolled for the Spring semester at the University, acording to the Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of -Academic -Affairs. 
Father Norton .said that of the total enrollment, 4,:{8r> students are enrolled in the five undergraduate colleges at Notre Dame. Tlie renuiining 437 arc enrolled in the Graduate School. 
The enrollment fi.gure reveals that, in s|!ite of the war .iitters being suffered by college .students all over the nation, the Notre Dame enrollment is normal as comi)ared to last year's Si)ring enroll­ment of 4,7SS. -Althou.gh Fall enrollment was 5,052, Father I^Iorton i)ointed ou: that there is a normal decrease between the Fall and Spring semesters. 
SPECIAL NOTE 
The -Alumni Board did not rec­
ommend the stdlii.s quo as a per­
fect plan. But in the face of a 
minimum of complications during 
the lOoO season, and new and 
changin.g ccnditicns of military 
and emergency nature alTecting 
alumni and alumni travel and 
planning, the Board believes that 
it was best to avoid further ex­
perimenting. -Also, in the same 
connection, discussion of the limi­
tations of the Michigan State and 
Southern JSlethodist games are 
being left fluid as long as i)OS­
sible to achieve the major ob­
jective of Board and Athletic De­
partment thinking — the greatest 
good for the greatest number. 
—J. E. A. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
^nX 

s& 
%
"h--. 
m^^ 
-'Hi 

'^•^ &m&
^^""^N 



20th Anniversary — March 31, 1951 
]a:i:tary-Fcbruary, 1951 



Report of Foundation Committee 
January 20, 1951 

ANNUAL RECORD OF GIVING 
Almnni and Friends 19il-1950 
(ALUMNI) (FKIENDS) NUMBER AMOUNT NUMBER AMOUNT 
1941, 1942, 1943 3,462 $107,424.00 208 $237,154.00 1944 3,313 111,342.00 98 59,916.00 1945 3.096 94,345.00 84 186,783.00 1946 5,885 276,989.00 262 254,612.00 1947 7,888 376,013.00 302 175,790.00 1948 6,973 451,898.28 691 163,041.14 
1949 7,517 506,231.16 1,158 1,418,310.51* 1950 7,114 2,032,437.94 2,695 373,749.26** 
Totals 45,248 $3,956,680.38 5,498 $2,869,355.91 
* Does not include $407,305.70 in Research Fellowships and Grants received in 1949 or equipment received and valued at $84,800.00. 
** Does not include Research Fellowships and Grants, and gifts other than money received in 1950. 
The drop of 403 alumni from 1949 tober report of the Committee that we to 1950 is considered due to the in­believe should be mentioned again, creased cost of living which is draining namely, that the figures of the 1949­the family budgets of all members, and 1950 school year, compiled in the to the uncertainty of the immediate Alumni Office for the Foundation, 
future for the younger graduates, sub­ments the tuition and fees of each stu­ject to military call. This drop of 403 showed that the University supple-in number is offset by an increase of dent with $476.00 each year. approixmately $150,000 in alumni par­
The Foundation Committee requested ticipation after subtracting the gifts of the Board to open up the entire Foun­Mr. O'Shaughnessy and Mr, Morris. 
dation participation and solicitation for Among the friends of Notre Dame, general discussion and its recommenda­you will note that the 1949 amount in­tions for further discussion at the aft­cludes $1,000,000 from Mrs. Fisher ernoon meeting of the Board. The which when not included, shows a de­President asked Joseph Boland to sub­crease of about $45,000 in amount al­stitute for Art Cronin who had to leave though the number of contributions to catch a train, and during the noon shows an increase of 1,537. We feel hour, discussed the recommendations ad­that the decrease in amount is also vanced by the Directors with John caused by the rising cost of living, Cackley and James E. Armstrong, re­causing smaller contributions in 1950. 
sulting in the following recommenda­The substantial increase in numbers 
tions: 
can be attributed to the televising of the football games and the Ben Duffy 1. Seek at once 100% alumni par­Leaflet Campaign. 
ticipation by each Aliunni Club. 
2. Plan campaign for each Alumni 
The Committee desires to call to the attention of the Board, especially the Club, Feb. 1 to April 30. Campaign new members, that at the October 28th to be conducted by the Alumni Club. 
meeting, Resolutions were prepared and sent to Mrs. Fred Fisher, Mr. E. M. 

Morris and Mr. I. A. O'Shaughnessy, commending them on the part of the New headquarteis for the Chicago Association for their gifts to the Uni­0£5cc of the University of Notre versity. In the letter of transmittal Dame Foundation are: sent to each of them with the Kesolu­
36 SOUTH DEARBORN ST., tion, it was mentioned that it was our 
SUITE 648-650, custom to do this at the annual meet­

FIRST NATIONAL BANK BLDG. ing in January but because of the mag­
The Foundation office formerly was nificence of their generosity, we broke precedent. 

located at 64 West Randolph. There is one more thing in the Oc­
3.
 Adopt slogan for Universal No­tre Dame Night ceremony. "EVERY ALUMNUS A CONTRIBUTOR. 

4.
 Set quota for all Alvunni Clubs and for each individual Alumni Club through cooperation with each Alumni Club President. 

5.
 Submit proposed original plan for Alumni Club campaign to each Alumni Club President at once, requesting in­terim report April 2 and final report April 30. 

6.
 Establish direct contact between Alunmi Executive Director, James E. Armstrong and campaign chairman of each Alumni Club, for purpose of con­trol and efficiency. 

7.
 Also suggest Alumni Club or­ganize small non-Alumni contributions through special committees of Altunni Club members on basis of industries and professions. 


. This committee feels that this pro­gram will be successful if adopted. 
FOUNDATION COMMITTEE 
John Q. Adams 
Joseph M. Boland 
Arthur D. Cronin 
Dr. Matthew Weis 
William J. Sherry, 
Chairman 
Mutscheller 1951 Captain 
Jim Mutscheller, a Senior from Beaver Falls, Pa., was announced as the 1951 football captain as the climax of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club's annual testimonial dinner Dec. 14 to the team. 
The usual devotees jammed the East dining hall to hear the lineup of celeb­rities rounded up for the occasion and to applaud a statement of policy by the University President, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c. Father Cavanaugh scored the Jeremiahs who held inter­ment ceremonies for Frank Leahy's football future and announced a "sub­stantial increase" in Leahy's salary for the coining year. 
Mel Allen, who did the television end of broadcasting the home football games was toastmaster of the banquet and gfuests like Stu Holcomb of Purdue, Bud Wilkinson of Oklahoma and Ralph Young of Michigan State paid honor to the 1950 team. 





Dean Manion s: "The Key to Peace 5> 
Small Volume by Clarence L "Pat" Manion, '22, Is Sparking American Patriotic Ren­aissance on the Strength of Its Power and Precision in Defining Fundamentak 
For the many years since he received ting of fixed truths that should have a most happy coincidence of copy edit­
his J. D. from the University's College ordered it through the centuries. ing and the author's ability to provide of Law, through the practising and Like most men of genius. Dean Man-sequence and coordination, a small vol­teaching career that brought him back ion's work was too often confined by ume appeared, attractively titled and as its Dean, Pat Manion has been a his modesty and the deceptive facility timed—rfce Key to Peace. (?2) clarion voice of God in government, a of his expression to these fortunate Neither author or publisher was ap­disciple of the Declaration of Independ­enough to be in his audiences, or read­parently awar^ in the modest throes of 
ence and a valiant champion of the ers of particular journals or texts. the first edition, of the power of their Constitution. Arthur Conrad, '35, Chicago, was one creation. But hardly had the volume A clever pen was somewhat obscured of those alumni long familiar with Dean appeared, when it was identified as a over the years by an eloquent tongue, Manion's pronouncements, and aware simple but almost startling articulation of its vital application to the critical 
that kept the best of the old-time ora­of the fundamentals of American phi­years through which we are moving. As 
tory and modified it to the streamlined losophy for which partisans, propagan­timing of the microphone era. President of the Heritage Foundation, dists, but most of all the people, had 
Both tongue and pen were only the 75 E. Wacker Drive, Chicago, he was been groping. talented instruments of a keen and ana­instrumental in bringing together a col­Like a lighthouse that serves big lytical mind that insisted' on examing lection of manuscripts, articles and ad­boats and little boats, freighters and the parade of history against the set­dresses, and the Dean in person. From (Continued on page 12) 
"Dean Manion's book gives the one certain method for making 
freedom strong in our time. It is one of the greatest books of all 
my reading experience and I commend it to every patriotic man 
and woman." 
Dr. Norman Vincent Peale, Pastor 
Marble Collegiate Church, N. Y. 
"Legionnaire Clarence Manion's dynamic and thrilling re-state­
ment of American principle THE KEY TO PEACE is in full accord 
with the Americanism program of the American Legion. We have 
been so impressed by the quality an dthe importance of this re­
statement that we will assume the work entailed for widespread 
distribution." 
Erie Cocke, Jr., National Commander 
The American Lekion, Indianapolis, Ind. 
"I was very much impressed with the content of this volume. The book should certainly be read by those who in our day are attempting to find a new approach or a new formula for peace. I do hope the book has the success it so richly deserves." 
J. Edgar Hoover, LL.D., Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
"Dean Manion's THE KEY TO PEACE is most tunely and vitally important. It presents a battle plan for the saving of Free­dom which everyone can imderstand. Here is an answer to those who have wondered what they could do to help save liberty." 
Dr. James W. Fifield, Los Angeles, Pastor First Congregational 
Church and Director of Spiritual Mobilization. 
"Those who love this Country and are troubled by the prospect confronting us will be stimulated by the discussion this book con­tains, and can scarcely fail to profit by the reading of it. 
B. E. Hutchinson, Detroit, Chairman of the Finance Committee—^The Chrysler Corporation. 
"Once I began to read it, I could not stop until the final page was read. This book must be studied in all the homes and schools of America. 
Denton Kerr, M. D., Houston, Texas. 
President-Elect, -American .Ass'n of Physicians and Surgeons. 
"Dean Manion has written a book which very much wanted writing. Its basic theme is sound and worthy of being shouted from the housetops." 
Very Rev. Vincent J. Flynn, LLJ>., '51, St. Paul, Minn.,*Presi­dent. College of St. Thomas and St. Thomas Military Academy. 
I wish that every American could read THE KEY TO PEACE. 
Dean Manion clearly and forcefully states the doctrine of natural 
rights on which America was boih and which AmericaBs miBt 
cherish and defend if human frecdnn b to survive." 
Cecil B. dcMille, Los Angeles 
Paramount Pictures Corporation. 

"I consider THE KEY TO PEACE one of the outstanding 
contributions to constructive and patriotic literature. This excel­
lent book is in simple language and makes dear why we should 
treasure the blessings which are guaranteed by our constitutioii." 
HoiL Cody Fowler, Tampa, Florida 
- President, .American Bar Association 

"It robbed me of a flight's rest, but it is so readable, scnsiU^ cogent that I did not realize time's passing. Clarence Manion's book is a real contribution to peace." 
Most Reverend Eugene J. McGuiimess, DJ). 
Bishop of Oklahoma City and Tulsa. 
"This book—THE KEY TO PEACE—should be required reading for every American who enters the armed forces. Our boys should understand the nature <A the cause-for which they are asked to give their lives." 
Edward Hayes—Chicago .Attorney, Past National Commander, The American Legion. 
"This book should be read by every one who loves hb church and his coimtry. It is the finest politico^piritual study tA America I know. I read it twice in one night, have returned to it many times, and expect to do so as far in the future as my road may go." 
Walter Trohan, Chicago Tribune. Magazine of Books—February 4, 1951. 
Spirit of God Will Down Russia, Grads Told 
Januarj- Commencement Address by Rev. John Courtney Murray, S.J. 
T
WO plain facts combine to give special seriousness to this occasion. A great storm is gathering- over 
our country and over the world, bearing 
we know not what furies in its bosom. 
And this storm will blow upon your 
young lives—^blow disruptively, scatter­
ing your personal hopes of shaping your 
own careers. 
We have identified an enemy. We are in conflict with him. The conflict will be lengthy, long drawn out, a thing of tightening and relaxing tensions, where­in every resolution will be hardly more than the start of a new tension. No man alive can foresee the final outcome. All we know is that the Marxist outcome is not inevitable, and that our task is to forbid it. 
No one stands aside from this conflict —least of all you, who may have to enter it with arms. What I have to say to you is chiefly two things. First, you are specially equipped for this conflict be­cause you are able to understand it, on its deepest level, in its full dimensions, in all its import. Secondly, this faculty of understanding puts upon you a special responsibility. 
The fact is that the future of the world hangs suspended between two poles, two centers of power, two foci of ideas. Russia and the United States are the two powers, both formidable. 
Is it a case, as in the wars of the past, of defining political frontiers? To some extent, to a very small extent. Is it a case of delimiting zones of com­mercial influence? At the moment, no; Russia is by no means ready to be an economic competitor. Is it then a matter of marking off zones of cultural influ­ence? Again, no. It cannot be a ques­tion of marking off frontiers between two ideologies that are in radical op­position between two civilizations that stand over against each other, and know that they are irreconcilable. 

This is no war over frontiers, or be­tween peoples, or between continents. It is a clash of forces that know no front­iers; for each seeks a zone of influence that is unlimited. 
Most simply, and therefore most fun­damentally, the great battle rages be­tween the forces of materialism and the forces of the spirit. 
But we shall do well to measure the full power of this materialism. It is a materialism that has been fashioned into a metaphysic, and offered as a total explanation of human life, a theory of history, a complete guide for the action of man in history. It is a materialism that has been raised to the status of an idea, to the dignity of a religion. 
This is why it has a revolutionary power. This too is why it can only, in the end, be opposed by a still more revolutionary power—the spirit of man in alliance with the spirit of God. 

There is a warning needed here. The metaphysical materialism that, in its formidable alliance with Sovet power, threatens the world today, cannot be overcome by that practical materialism which, in alliance with sentimental moral idealism, has been the major force be­hind what is called "the American way of life." "In a conflict between religrious materialism and practical materialism," » Miss Barbara Ward has said, in her Policy for the West, "it seems certain that the religious variety will have the strength to prevail. 
An idea has never yet in human history been defeated by no idea at all." American practical materialism has no status as an idea. It has no dignity. It will not prevail. Even the forces of its ally, American moral idealism, cannot assist it to prevail. For this idealism is a thing of sentiment. It has not the toughness of a real religion, nor even the toughness of the pseudo-religion with which it must match itself. 
Everything that you have learned here at Notre Dame has formed your minds to an understanding of today's fundamental issue. There may indeed be a Great Debate about the manner in which the threat of Soviet power is to be countered. But there can be no smallest debate about the fundamental issue. 
Your understanding of the issue de­fines your responsibility. You are to be the champions of the spirit, w^itnesses to the Spirit. 
This means recognizing that the enemy is not only outside the City, threatening its walls with frontal attack. He is, in various forms, also within the City. And, within and without, he is to be opposed. 

The task then is to affirm—^by word, by deed, by the whole quality of your lives—^your opposition to materialism. To the vulgar "materialism of the digestive tubes," as it has been called—the phi­losophy of comfort and amusement and material success. To the practical ma­terialism that puts its total trust in machinery and science and knows no other norm of truth or goodness than the purely pragmatic. To the political ma­terialism of those men to whom prin­ciple means nothing and expediency is all. To all these forms of the enemy in our very midst. And then to the mighty metaphysical materialism that looms out of the East. 
The task is the affirmation of an op­position. But it is also the affirmation of something more positive. There are in fact positive affirmations to be made. 
First, you, as educated men, have to affirm your belief in reason, in intelli­gence Professor Orton has well said that "the function of the intellectual is to maintain that pressure of reason upon mere circumstance from which alone true meaning, for the rational animal, emerges." Never more than today was this "pressure of reason" needed. For the pressure of circumstances was never greater. 
And men are being hurried by it into fatalism, into defeatism, into hysterical disintegration. In opposition we must maintain that reason is a valid tool whereby the destiny of man may be shaped. We have to believe, and act on the belief, that a rationalization of man's political and economic life is possible. It is an intention of nature. 
Signs of it are visible in history. It can be done. Society and man himself are not at the mercy of the irrational— the irrational in power-confficts, the irrational that breaks out in conscious judgments or lies hidden in unconscious depths. 
This is a day in which the effort to reason, and to be reasonable, is of high importance. Reason must be brought to bear, made a genuine pressure, a shaping force upon opinion and events. 

Secondly, you, as Christians, have to affirm your faith. Perhaps the element of faith that chiefly needs affirmation is one intimately linked to the central mystery of our faith, the Incarnation. I mean faith in the providence of God our Father. Belief in God's providence means denial of the insidious pagan tenet, resurgent today, that the course of humanity through time and history is guided by fatality or that it sets towards meaninglessness — even the meaninglessness of the earthly kingdom of the God of Communist theory. 
Because you believe that the son of God, the Word, the Logos, Eternal Reason and Justice, became man, you be­lieve that it is the destiny of man to achieve here on earth, with God's un­failing help, an order of justice—never perfect, always fragile, often ambigu­ous, but genuine, pacifying, real. 
Because you believe that the Spirit of Christ was sent at Pentecost to be the hidden dynamic of history, dwelling in the Church, shared by those who share the Church's life, you also believe that human effort towards the realization of man's dignity is not meaningless or doomed to frustration. All such effort has such an ally; it is instrumental to the effort that Omnipotence itself continually puts forth. God wills the life of man. God wills His own glory which is, as Irenaeus said, "the living man," clothed in human dignity. 
Because you believe in the Chui-ch, which represents on earth the very free­dom of God Himself, which He wills to communicate to men, therefore you be­lieve that the aspiration for freedom rooted in the human heart is not illusory, and that man's laborious effort at the conquest of his freedom will be crowned with its measure of success. 
We are about to enter upon Lent. Mankind itself seems about to enter upon a Lent—a time of discipline and sacrifice, suffering and even death, to be borne willingly or unwillingly, in any event ineluctably. 
But the Christian Lent is lived in the perspectives of Easter. Already we can hear (because the song is never stilled) the angel chorus singing, as in Goethe's Faust, "Christ is arisen! Blest is the loving one who has come through the wholesome and chastening trials that troubled him." 
Dr. Faustus, you remember, hearkened to the song, but said: "I hear the mes­sage well enough; but what I lack is faith." You are not as he. To the clear mesage of victory, which is the last word in the Christian message, there rises in you the strong response of faith. Faith you have, and with it courage. Keep it high. 
NOTRE DAME 



Books 

THE WEEK WITH CHRIST (Fides Publishers, South Bend,'Ind. Cloth §3.50, Paper $2.50) by Rev. Emeric Lawrence, O.S.B. 
Father Lawrence, with the rich ex­perience of Army chaplaincy behind him, and the spiritual environment of St. John's University, Collegeville, Minn., about him, brings to the layman, to the family, and to Catholic action groups, a concise yet thorough treatment of the liturgy of the Church year, and its special feasts, arranged by weeks. 
Father Louis Putz, C.S.C, Notre Dame's great contribution to Catholic action, has a complimentary and signifi­cant foreword, on the integration of the liturgy and the apostolate. 
Father Lawrence seems to come re­markably close in this volume to making clear the paths and the possibilities by which men can become Christ-like, by 
Alumni Board Officers for 1951 
Vice-Presidents Edward C. Beclonan and William Jones, President R. Conroy Scoggins, Honorary President Leo B. Ward and Executive Director James E. Armstrong. Vice-President William J. Sherry was absent when the picture was taken. 
January-February, 1951 
which they can, as he points out, not only 
contemplate holiness but become holy. 
The volume is a book-of-the-month selec­
tion of the Thomas More Book Club 
(instituted by Notre Dame's John C. 
TuUy, '11). Father Lawrence has made 
easy the expansion of a living Christian­
ity from 52 days to the full 365, in a 
clear lay approach, without sacrifice of 
the dignity or the majesty of the liturgy. 
—J. A. 

"The Soyiet Union: Backg^round, Ide­ology, Reality," is the title of a book just published by the University Press. 
Edited by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, it represents the proceedings of a sym­posium of Soviet Russia held last year at the University under the auspices of the Committee on International Rela­tions at Notre Dame. Dr. Gurian is Chairman of the committee which is partially financed by a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation. 
Ck)ntributors include Dr. Gurian, "The Development of the Soviet Regime from Lenin to Stalin"; Dr. Michael Karpovich, Chairman of the Slavic De­partment at Harvard, "Historical Background of Soviet Thought Con­trol"; Dr. Naum Jasny, member of the Food Research Institute of Stanford University, "Results of Soviet Five-Year Plans"; Dr. Philip E. Mosely, member of the Russian Institute at Co­lumbia, "Soviet Exploitation of Na­tional Conflicts in Eastern Europe." 
Dr. Stephen Kertesz, Professor of Political Science at Notre Dame and former Hungarian Minister to Italy, treats "Methods of Soviet Penetration in Eastern Europe"; Dr. Vladimir Pe­trov, of the Yale faculty who escaped from a Soviet Siberian labor camp, "Aims and Methods of Soviet Terror­ism," Dr. N. S. Timasheff, Professor of Sociology at Fordham, "Religion in Russia, 1941-1950"; and Rev. Francis Dvomik, Professor at Harvard, "Church and State in Central Europe." 
Army Ensineers at ND 
The University by next September will be one of the few in the country training all branches of the Armed Services. 
Activation of a 400-man Army Engi­neering ROTC unit, approved this month by the Army Adjutant-General was announced by Rev. John J. Cava­naugh, C.S.C., University President. This will bring to nearly 1,400 the total military trainees on campus at the be­ginning of the 1951-52 school year. 
Currently enrolled are 269 Navy trainees, 279 Marine Corps and 425 Air Force. 
11 
Jordan in For Moose Krause 
John Jordan, '35, this month suc­ceeded "Moose" Krause, '34, as basket­ball coach at the University. 
Krause stepped down as basketball head to devote more time to his job as athletic director. He and Jordan were teammates in the '30's and Jordan left a coaching position at Loyola of Chi­cago to take the Notre Dame post. 
After graduation Jordan coached Mount Carmel of Chicago to three Catholic High School League'champion­ships and to two city crowns. Last April he replaced Tom Haggerty at Loyola. 

January Freshmen Enrolled 
The University for the first time since World War II, has enrolled fresh­men in the January semester. 
Father Louis Thornton, c.s.c, Reg­istrar, said that Notre Dame's post­war enrollment policy was changed to afford young men faced with induction a chance to get at least a part of their college education before entering the service. 
The Notre Dame enrollment policy since the end of World War II has permitted new freshmen to enter the University only in the semester which begins in September. Previously, the only students who were accepted in the January semester at Notre Dame were transfer students from other colleges and universities, and former Notre Dame students who were reentering the University. 
Father Thornton said that Notre Dame will be able to accept new freshmen in the January semester this year because of openings in the stu­dent body left by mid-year graduates and by a limited number of Notre Dame students who have been called to active duty with the armed forces. 

Library Gets Original 
Peter C. Eeilly, President of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Company, In­dianapolis, has presented the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery at the Univer­sity an original painting by Sassofer­ranto, noted Italian artist. 
Mr. Keilly, a member of the Asso­ciate Board of Lay Trustees and of the Advisory Council for Science and Engi­neering at Notre Dame, added to the Notre Dame gallery Sassoferrato's "Madonna and Child Adored by An­gels." Valued at $1,000, the Sassofer­rato original will be added to the col­lection of other panitings donated to Notre Dame by Mr. Eeilly and known as the "Peter C . Eeilly Collection." 

Heart Attack Fatal to Father Michael Moriarty on Feb. 14 
Eev. Michael Moriarty, Litt.B. 1910, Secretary of that Class, and former member of the national board of direct­ors of the Alumni Association, died in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday, Febru­ary 14. Father Moriarty was 62 years old, and at the time of his death was serving as pastor of St. Catherine's Church in Cleveland, O. Father Moriarty was a priest of the Cleveland diocese from his ordination in 1915, and had at 
Rev. Michael Moriarty, '10 
various times served as assistant pastor of the Cathedral, as vice-president of Cathedral Latin high school, and as director of Catholic charities. He also served as pastor in Wooster, Ohio, for eleven years from 1922 to 1983, and later for a short time in Mentor, Ohio. 
These are biogrraphical facts. They are completely barren of the warm heart, the fine mind, the loyalty, the enthusiasm, and the priestly qualities that made of Father Moriarty one of the great personalities of the Alimini Association. A monogram man, and a man with perpetual vital interest in Notre Dame and all its activities. Father Mike was a familiar visitor at most of the athletic and non-athletic highlights 
LATE BULLETIN 
The University has announced that banning freshmen will be accepted for the Summer School term, which starts June 18. For the summer session they may gain one-half semester's credit. The announce­ment follows one of last December which permitted b^inning freshmen to enroll for the January semester of the present academic year. 
of the school year, when his duties to 
his own jobs permitted. His delightful 
humor was an extra asset that con­
ributed to the effectiveness of the variety 
of assignments he enjoyed. 
To those who knew him, it is useless to expand the rich details of reminiscence and friendship over the years. To those who missed the privilege, it would be too difficult to capture the combination of the spiritual, the human, and' the in­tellectual that made up a visitor always welcome, a counselor always wise. Notre Dame has lost a great alumnus, and many of us a dear friend. Prayers for him will be many, from the many who were—and will undoubtedly still be—in his own.—^J. E. A. 
•raE 1951 SCHEDULE Sept. 29—^Indiana at Notre Dame Oct. 13—So. Methodist at Notre Dame Oct. 20—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Oct. 27—Purdue at Notre Dame Nov. 3—^Navy at Baltimore Nov. 10—Michigan State at E. Lansing Nov. 17—No. Carolina at Chapel Hill Nov. 24—^lowa at Notre Dame Dec. 1—S. California at Los Angeles 

"The Key to Peace" 
(Continued from page 9) pleasure craft, the enthusiasm for The Key to Peace has been as universal as is the hope for peace. 
The book is American, rather than Catholic in a sectarian sense. And while any Catholic can find in it the rich roots of religion that guided the thinking of our Founding Fathers, the sensational reception of the book stems from its quick adoption by men of all races and creeds and walks of life. 
So powerful is its appeal as a hand­book of citizenship that the American Legion, through its national commander, Erie Cocke Jr., has undertaken to accept funds which will permit Legion Posts to place copies of the book in every school library in America. 
Statesmen have sent it to industrial­ists. 
Bishops have sent it to statesmen. Pulitzers prize editors have sent it to ether editors (a rare tribute in the pro­fession) . 
Clergy, labor leaders, big and little business, educators, leaders in organi­zations that are striving for a strong America in the light of its real herit­age, have been phenomenally and volun­tarily vocal in their praise of the book. 
The Washington Times-Herald, the Booth papers in Michigan, and other media, are runnnig or planning to run the book serially. 
Alumni, fellow-alumni of the author, trained themselves in the greatest tra­ditions of America, will find the Key to Peace a refresher course indeed. JEA 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 




Alumni Clubs 
Boston 
The annual Communion Sunday was celebrated on December 10 at St. John's Church in Cambridge, followed by a breakfast at the Hotel Commander. President jack Duffey told the breakfast gather­ing of a visit paid to Boston by Robert Ervin, of Noire Dame, representing LOBUND. Jack re­peated the interesting story of LOBUND as it was told to htm by Mr. £rv-in. 
A most welcome guest at the breakfast was Father Frank Gartland, C.S.C, who was in Boston at this time. Father Gartland spoke in particular about *'The Catholic Boy" magazine and left those pres­ent with a fine impression of the excellence and importance of this publication. 
The Campits club held their annual Christmas formal on the evening of December 27 at the Hotel Puritan. 
On January 13, Notre Dame footballer Bob Wil­liams appeared at a dinner in the ballroom of the CopIey-PIaza Hotel to accept the Swede Nelson Award for sportsmanship. He was accompanied by Joe McArdle, representing Coach Frank Leahy. Club member and Notre Dame Foudation Governor for Massachusetts^ Jack Saunders was on the Dinner Committee, and quite a few of Boston's Notre Dame men were sprinkled throughout the audience. Bob's father, Mr. H. A. Williams, of Baltimore, was present. Bob, his father and Joe McArdle gain­ed many friends for themselves and for Notre Dame. 
The following Saturday, January 20, at the Uni­versity Club, Boston, Archbishop Graner, *24, of Dacca, Pakistan, was honored by members of the club at a luncheon. Hugh Blunt, who graduated from Notre Dame the same year as the Archbishop, introduced him to the gathering, and the Arch­bishop delivered a most pleasing and absorbing talk. The Archbishop was presented with a purse at the conclusion of the luncheon. 
Joe McArdle dropped in at this luncheon and discussed the dinner at which Bob Williams received the coveted Swede Nelson sportsmanship honors. He also discussed football prospects for the *51 season. 
Other notes: the Notre Dame Debating team was in town the first week in February. . . . John Moran and family have moved into a new home in Jamacia Plain. . . . Ernest F. Eastman, origini­nally from Boston, has recently moved back to his hometown and has joined the club. 

Central Illinois 
On Jan. 22 the Club held its annual stag evening, and enjoyed a. football movie. December activities included a Communion Breakfast, wliich had a commendable Club representation. 
John Lynaugfa, the new Club President, has an­nounced a decision by the Club to resume noon meetings on the first Monday of each month. The meetings are held in the Knights of Columbus club rooms. 
Visiting alumni can reach John at 328 State 

House. 
Other new officers are Tom Vicars, vice-president; Jim Costa, treasurer, and Gerry McGlone, secretary', all of Springfield. 

Chicago 
The Chicago Club has had two affairs which were a source of enthusiasm to the ofBcers and those who attended—the Bal Noel, on January 6, and the Annual Election Banquet, on January 29. 
As another example of the last being first, a resume of the election banquet must necessarily be highlighted, as was the affair itself, by Father Cavanai^'s inspiring talk. Although the banquet was held on one of the coldest nights of a very cold winter, the fact that the president of the Uni­versity was to be there drew a substantial and spirited crowd. Father Cavanaugh made the hero­ism of braving the sub-zero weather more than worthwhile as he delivered one of the finest extem­pcraneous talks it has ever been this reporter's privi­lege to hear. 
January-February, 1951 
He briefly recapped the difficulties the University faces due tb the international unrest, told some of the measures being considered for future eventuali­ties, and then gave a memorable spiritual message, pointing out the ever-present necessity for charity among Christians^ He also paid well^deserved trib­ute to Dean Clarence **Pat** Maiuon*s new book, the "Key to Peace." 
Other highlights of the evening included the elec­tion of new officers, headed up by the installation of AI Stepan as president; the fine work of Jolin McGoorty in revising the constitution so as to facilitate the election^ and the spirited contribution of members when the meeting was thrown open to a discussion on the problem of arousing more inter­est in the club and increasing attendance at club functions. 
This open discussion was featured by a letter offered by Jim Gallagher (Chicago Cub officio) sug­gesting brief dinner meetings given over to short and timely lectures from leading academic figures, possibly supplied by the University. Bert Met2ger commented in favor of the suggestion. Another feature of the meeting was the award of plaques for meritorious ser\*ice given to the past presidents of the Chicago Club, a number of whom were pres­ent by special invitation. Jim Armstrong lauded the efforts being made by the Club. 
The Bal Noel was a tremendous success, and will be an annual affair. Held at the Drake Hotel, it was attended fay nearly 500 couples. Outndera who saw the dccor^toos proaoonced them the best of the many social functions they had seen. Major 

credit for the achievement goes to chairman ^A CSttaaam, assisted by a hard-working group erf co-chairmen and workers. InddcntaUy, coagmtulations are flowing in to Jack, not only for his ^lendid work on the ball, but also on hb promotion to vice-president of the Chic^p> First National Bank. 
Ahead on the Club schedtde is the annual cele­bration of Universal Notre Dame Night, Saturday, A|iril 17. Fred Bf rfcliniM ig, Jr., is working on the problem of commg up vrith an outstanding speaker, and other features of the evemng will be strictly top-drawer, from all indications. It is hoped that the reqwnse will justify t})p efforu being expended by club officials and chairmen. 

Cincinnati 
The major acthnty of the year for the Ciadnna.^ Club was our Fifth Annual Scholarship Ball held December 28 at the Hotel Netherland Plaza. The Ball was a great success and will enable the club to carry on its scholarshq> gift. 
To JXA ScaOan go congratulations for his great job as General Chairman of the dance. The com* nuttee members who worked along with Dick were 
munion Breakfast in Hotel Bihmore. 
i3 


N. Y. City President Shells and Guests 
Rev. Howard Kama, C.S.C., Assistant Snperior-Gcnen], Slieil^ Herb Giorgio and (Ae Mustache) Thomas F. Murphy, Police Commissioner of New York City at the Com­
Then came Lent, just like that. So early this year. And what better way to start this penitential sea­

Washington, D. C. Club Communion Breakfast 
son than a Retreat. Nearly one hundred Notre 


^sm^ 

Tom Flynn, Club President (far right, first row), and members of the Capitol Club at Holy Cross College for the annual observance of Universal Notre Dame Conmiunion Sunday. 
BUI Grafe and John Fcad, Rc5cr\atlon5; Bob Burke, At our Januar>- meeting, a resolution was passed 
Arrangements; John Cottingham and Bob McCaf-supporting the resolution of the Washington, D. C. ferty. Entertainment; Dr. Tom Hanifin, Decorations; Club regarding a Communion Sunday to be ob-Bert Schloemer, Publicit>-; Bob Leonard, Wally scr\-ed on the Sunday closest to the anniversary* of 
Nienabcr and Jim Burke, Patrons. We especially the death of Knute Rockne. The Club strongly want to thank Tom Ahem and Jim Bartlett of the 
approves this idea and wishes to commend the Cincinnati Club at the University for their assis­Washington Club for inaugurating it. tance. Following on the heels of the dance was our .An­nual Football Smoker held on January H, at the 
Cleveland 

Hotel Sheraton-Gibson. Walt Grothaus very ably acted as Chairman and handled all the details. We On December 10, Notre Dame men, their wives are especially pleased that Athletic Director and and cliildrcn marked the Feast of the Immaculate Basketball Coach Ed "Moose** Krause was able to Conception with a Family Communion Breakfast. be with us. Coach Bill £arle>' did a fine job nar­Afass was celebrated by His Excellency, Bishop Ho-rating the films of tlie Michigan State game. ban, at St. John's Cathedral Later, the crowd of 
Again this year, the Club will award a four-year nearly 150 had breakfast at the Hotel Hollenden scholarship to the University to a dcsen.'ing student and heard an impressive talk by Father James £. from the Cincinnati area. The committee is com­Norton, C.S.C, vice-president of ND. Dr. H. G. posed of AI Castellini, Joe Morrisse>' and Wally McCarty, chairman of this impressive affair, did an Nienaber as alumni members and the Hon. Edward outstanding job. 
T. Nixon and Mr. Louis Richter as non-alomni Next in the wntcr social season's calendar of members. The committee hopes to announce the events was the annual Christmas Dance. Thanks to winners of the prize in June. 
Hugh Ball it was a huge success. As chairman he 

AVe Icam, with a great deal of pleasure, that marshaled a telephone squadron of men and wives, Joe Morrisscy has been elected to the Alumni and cver>'onc's phone kept ringing until he said Board of Trustees of the University. Joe was the yes, he was going to attend; not that the Christmas recipient of our Man-of-tlic-Year award in 1950 Dance needs strong arm tactics—but there was the and we are certain that he will do the same fine the Rainbo\%- Room at the Carter to fill—and George job on the Alumni Board as he has done for the Duffy's orchestra. P.S. it was, forcsooih, a fine Cincinnati Club. formal frolic. 
Dame men and their friends attended a closed Re­
treat at St. Stanilaus Retreat House in Parma. 
February 9, 10 and II. Tom Enri^t was chairman, 
and did a swell job. \Vhat a great spiritual life one 
must get out of being chairman of a successful 
Retreat^ 
On February- 13, Clevclandcrs in general, and Notre Dame men in particular, were honored when the Rev. John J. Cai-anaugA, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, addressed a luncheon meeting of the CIe\'eland Chamber of Commerce. His subject "The Bases of Americanism" \%'as well received by a packed house. 
Future plans include a big Rockne Memorial Communion Breakfast for fathers and sons. Pat Canny, who knew Rock so well and worked close to him, was a natural as chairman of this affair, and he promises a top-notch speaker and a big turnout. 
Plans arc progressing for the annual Easter dance, but nothing at this writing is concrete enough to give dates or details. Read your local newspaper for time and date. 
Columbus 
The local club had a get-together of alumni and present students at the City Club of the Virginia Hotel, on December 29th. This affair was well handled and arranged by Harry Nester. 
JcStn Geddes, our president, has been transferred to Minneapolis, and at the meeting he was presented with some fishing tackle as a going-away present and in appreciation for the excellent work he had done ^vith the club. Vice-Pres. Joe Ryan is now in command. 
The annual Notre Dame Communion breakfast was a success, under the direction of Dr. Joe Hughes, chairman of the committee; Bishop Het­tinger, auxiliar>' Bishop of Columbus preached the sermon. A very interesting talk was given by Pro­fessor O'Grady, of the Philosophy Department of the 
University who was at the breakfast. The last meet­ing was held on the I9th of Januar>-; plans were discussed and a committee appointed to make ar­rangements for an early summer dance. 
Local alumni were very' pleased to sec Rev. Leo 
R. Ward, C.S.C., of the University, here in Colum­bus February 15, as the guest conductor of the local Critics Forum. 


Connecticut Volley 
"Peace, Power and Prayer'* was the theme of an informal talk delivered by Father Walsh, C.S.C, of the Class of '45 to the members of this Club at our Annual Communion Breakfast on Dec. ID, 1950, at the Hotel Bond in Hartford. Father Walsh, who is presently studying at the Yale University Graduate School in New Haven, was AVCII received by the many Notre Dame men attending this event.. Don Foskett, Class of '39, Chairman of the Break­fast Committee is to be congratulated on his ex­cellent choice of speaker. 

The All-Notre Dame Coaching Lineup at Dallas 
Two takes were necessary to include all the Notre Dame Alumni who attended the NCAA meet in Dallas. Lineups (no numbers) are 
listed on page 39. Father Hesburgh attended as an oBScial representative of the University. 
Brother DcHutus» C^vC.» Prtaclpal o[ tltc No­tre Dame High School in New Haven, accom­panied Father Walsh to Hartford and following the Breakfast spoke briefly concerning the Notre Dame High School. 
A suggestion was made by Johnny "Clipper** Smith that this club sponsor a four year scholarship to the Notre Dame High School for some worthy youth in the Central Connecticut area. This sugges­tion was enthusiastically received by the members present, and a committee composed of John Rob­inson, John Smith and Paul McCormack was ap­pointed by Club President Matt Mcskill to look into the matter at greater length. 

Dallas 
On December 3 the Club attended Mass and re­

^ 
ceived Holy Communion in a body at Holy Trinity Church in honor of Our Lady. 
The Club locally obscr^-ed The Natural Law In­stitute by addressing to one of the leading news­papers in Dallas a letter commending The Natural Law. Arthur T. Simpson and President Jim Walsh discussed The Natural Law over Radio Station WFAA. 
One of the most gala affairs of the Club in recent years was the formal Christmas party on December 29 held at the Northwood Club. About 150 couples attended, including members of the Club and their guests. The club was decorated in the Iioliday mo­tif and music was provided by a nationally-known band} Jimmic Joy and his orchestra. Mike Linehan was the General Chairman and was rendered great assistance by Mike Doran, John Giles and various others on the Dance Committee. 
One of our legal-lights, Lee Shipp, is preparing a Constitution to be adopted by the Club. He is being assisted by Joe Haggar and Jake Reichenstein. 
On January- 10 the Club was host to the Notre Dame men in the coaching profession who were in Dallas at the NCAA meeting. A cocktail party and snack bar honored the visiting coaches in the smart Texas Room of the Baker Hotel. Pictures of some of the visiting coaches appear elsewhere in the magazine. 
Jimmic Simmons has recently purchased a Beech Bonanzo plane and with his wife and guests recent­ly attended the Miami Air Races. He had a ver\­rnjoyablc visit with his classmate, Fred Snite, Jr., who is in Miami Beach for the w-inter. 
Our former President, Ed Haggar, is busily en­gaged in super\'ising the construction of his new home. 
Our Second Vice President, Johimy Sierra, was honored by being named Chairman by the local Life Underwriters of a committee appointed to ar­range a series of lectures on Advanced Life Insur­ance Studies. Johnny is attracting much favorable attention in life insurance circles locally. 
John Darrouzet, our very efficient and obliging Treasurer has recently accepted a position with Geophysical Ser^'ices, Inc., in the Engineering De­partment. 
Our new Secretary-, Charles Lobr, has received a promotion with the large drug concern where he is employed. 
Our-First VP,-Dr. Lloyd Bellamy, is the proud Owner of -a new station w*agon w*htch he says is absolutely the smallest conveyance that he can use to get his family to cliurch in a body. Lloyd re­cently had a ver>- enjoyable visit with his former roommate. Spike Sullivan, of the Class of *31. 
Our Foundation Governor for the State, Jim Swift, is the Chairman of the Legislative and Legal Committees of the Texas Life Convention. In addi­tion to this, he is very prominent in the studies now being made for the Re-Codification of the Life Insurance Laws of Texas. 
Pat Bucll is reported to be recovering nicely from a recent illness. Bill Defferari reports that his son is in serxicc in California. Dr. Bob Murphy has recently volunteered for service in the Medical Corps. Mike Linehan, Jr., is the proud father of a daughter. Patricia. The Club extends sympathy to Jake Reichenstein on the recent death of his father. 

Dayton 
The Dayton Club has a fully scheduled program for Universal Notre Dame Night, with a tentative commitment from a campus speaker. 
Our Winter Dinner Dance was held Jan. 20 at Miami Valley Golf Club, and was well attended. 
January-February, 1951 
Krause and Earley in Cincinnati 
At Cinci's Football Smoker, with Joe Morrisscy, left, new Almnni Board member, and Walt Grothaus, center of the 1950 team. 

Dearborn, Mich. 
The Dearborn Club held its Communion Break­

fast jointly with the Detroit Club, details of which 
are listed under Detroit. 
Independently, the Club had a stag evening at 

the Bohemian Room of Stroh's on Jan. 8, preceded 
by an educational tour of Stroh's extensive process­
ing, manufacturing and packaging divisions. 
Denver 
The happy winner of the recent Football Ticket Prize, as announced by committee chairman Frank Conway, was Mrs. John McCarty of 700 S. York St., Denver, Colo., wife of John McCarty, class of 1937. Mrs. McCarty was the recipient of two round-trip airplane tickets to the ND-USC football game, plus reser\*ations at the Biltmore Hotel in Los Angeles, and a $50.00 expense account. The club netted approximately $600.00 from this func­tion and this amount will be applied towards the Annual N. D. Scholarship Award. 
At the November meeting, Tom Gargan, Club Secretary, announced an up-to-date roster of all club members had been compiled. This roster in­cludes all pertinent information regarding all No­tre Darners. The club voted at the November meet­
Tom Gargan, Denver Club President, inns senting the CluVs award to Bravdica. 
ing to have a pocket-size directory printed for each member of the Denver club. Plans are being made to distribute the club cUrcctory in January, 1951. 
Tom Currigan, club president, presented the Knutc Rockne Xfemorial Trophy to Brother GOT­dian. George Bravdica and Coach Dick Brown of Mullen High School, on December 2. Mullen High School won possession of the trophy, emblematic of the Colorado parochial grid supremac." .for the first six months as a result of their 13-13 tie with the Pueblo Catholic High School. Pueblo Catholic High won possession of the trophy for the last sL^ months of the coming year. This trophy is given by the club each year to the State Parochial Grid c:hampion. 
Jim Haolon, chairman of the Football Special Train Committee gave a favorable report on the results of procreeds from special trains sponsored by the club. 

Detroit 
Father Corndim Laskowski, C.S.C., was speaker at the breakfast in Hotel Book-Cadillac on Dec. 10, which foUo>0ed the Communion Mass in St. Aloysius Church. 
To assure a good club representation, the com­mittee (Jack Courtney, Ed Roaey, Jr., and Bob Cronin) even hired trained nurses to look after the children during the Mass and Breakfast after­wards. 
Father Laskowski gave one of his usual excellent talks. 

Eostem Illinois 
We sponsored a very successful bus trip to the Notre Dame \s. Pitt, football game. The crowd left Danville, Illinois, at 7:45 a. m., November 11— arrived at the Notre Dame Stadium about 12:30— went on a sight-seeing tour of the campus—then to the game. After the game we had supper at the South Bend Airport where accommodations had been secured — arriving back in Danville at ten o'clock Saturday evening. We furnished the trip for ten dollars, which included, round trip OQ the bus, ticket to the game, refreshments on the way up, and mums for the ladies. The trip was a tremen­dous success and everyone that attended wishes to return next year. We hope to secure tickets to the 
S.M.U. game for next year's trip. 
Sunday, Dec. 10, we had our annual communion Sunday. The club received commtmion In a body at the 8:30 o'clock Mass at St. Paul's Catholic Church in Danville, 111., with Rev. B. T. Motiett, a Notre 
D:unc alumnus, saying the Mass. After Mass we had a communion breakfast at the Grier Lincoln Hotel followed by a short business meeting. At this time wc laid the ground work for Universal Xotre Dame Night and John Bellon and Ed leaden were elected co-chairmen for the affair, also we are going to attempt to work out a plan of co-ordination with the local Catholic high school and Ernie Sedlma>x and Les Fahey were put in cliarge. At this meeting wc deadcd to sec the Xotre Dame basketball game in the Butler Fieldhouse at Indianapolis, Ind., Dec. 22, 1950, with John Mey-er and John Morrisscy mak­ing the arrangements for this trip, and finally, Joe Bauer was put in charge of obtaining our block of tickets for our trip to the N.D. \*s. S.M.U. game for next year. 
Two of our alumni won in the recent election, John P. Afeycr was re-clcctcd as State Representa­tive and Frank J. Meyer was elected to the office of County Judge. Wc arc very proud of them and know they will do a great, honest, and sincere job while in office. We would like to say that any alumni in our area that have not been contacted please write us and let us know where you are so w*e can include you in our organization. 


Fort Louderdole 
The new officers of the Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale are: 
Jc^tn C Sulln-aB, '31, president; Robert Gore, '31, x-icc president; John Scwell, *43, 5ccretar>-; and Bill Burgltart, '31, treasurer. 
The first event of the current year was the ap­pearance of the Notre Dame Glee Club in the Fort Lauderdale War Memorial Auditorium on Wed­nesday, Jan. 31. Because the city was crowded with tourists, and hotel accommodations were impos­sible to obtain, club members and their friendf had as their guests in their own homes the members of the Glee Club. 
Regular meetings of the Club are held the first Wednesday of each month. Visitors in the area may obtain informadon regarding the meeting place by calling any of the officers or the Governor's Club Hotel. 
I'm pleased to report that I ^vas married on 
August 26, 1950 to Miss Claire Pelt of South 
Orange, N. J., in Our Lady of Sorrows Church, 
South Orange. Wc arc residing at 1600 S.E. llth 
St., Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Come to sec us. 
From John Sulli\-an. 

Fort Wayne 
A Christmas party for the children in St. Vin­cent's Orphanage was given by the Club again this year. It's become an annual affair, now'a "must*' for the club. 
De c 28 the Club had a football dinner, and Athletic Trainer Hu ^ Bums showed a football film, and filled in with hts usual sagacious remarks. 

Grand Rapids 
Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., head of the Univer­sity's Department of Religion, was guest speaker at the club's Communion Breakfast. He gave an in­spiring talk on the t>-pe of leaders Xotre Dame is striving to produce. Over 130 men attended the gathering. 
At the same meeting, in St. Francis school audi­torium. Club President Edward R. Dunn presented an honorary' membership scroll to Louis A. Weil, Jr., publisher of the Grand Rapids "Herald." The scroll is presented yearly to a non-alumnus showing interest in and devotion to the University. 
President Dunn also gave Ronald Makowski, quar­terback on the 1950 Catholic Central High School football team, a scroll honoring the lad as an out­standing scholar, athlete and geiitleman. 
Chairman and toastmastcr for the event was Leo 
L. linck. 

Indianapolis 
Things arc shaping up nicely for Universal Notre Dame Night. Needless to say ^vc feel very honored to have Father Cavanaugh as the guest speaker. The big affair is to be held at the Indianapolis Athletic Club on April 2. Our good friend, Hugh Bums is going to be the master of ceremonies. The following guests of honor have accepted thus far: 
Gov, Henry Schrickcr, Archbishop Paul Schulte, of Indianapolis; H. B. Wells, president of Indiana University, and Philip Bayls, mayor of Indianapolis. 
Our wives have been invited to attend this affair. John C O'Connor, the chairman, has appointed a group to act as the "Ladies Auxiliary'* and it is felt that they will talk it up and thus be responsible for a very good turn-out. Chairmen have been ap­pointed for all the surrounding cities and towns and they should he instrumcntol in gctdng a good rep­resentation . Wc are looking for a crowd of between three and four hundred. 
Our president, Harvey Foster, has arranged for Bemie Crimmins to entertain us with a movie on Frfiruary 28. This is to be held in the Cathedral High ScJiooI auditorium. All cit>' high school coaches and their squads have been inrited to attend this affair. 
Ed Cunningham, John Carey and Tom Fitzgerald have been appointed chairmen of the annual retreat at Alvema Retreat House. \Vc are hoping for a good turnout this year. 


Family Breakfast, Baltimore Style 
FranUyn (Poppa) Hochreiter at the head of Baltimore's Communion Breakfast Table, at Loyola College, Baltimore. When Baltimore says 'Tamily Style Breakfast" they bring the family. Table No. 2 at the Dec. 10 observation. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Fox Valley (Wis.) Christmas Dance New York City 
Three student guests of the club, and their dates; Jim Garvey, John McKenzie and Fred Gantheer in the tux. 
Kansas City 
The Kansas City Club's annual Communion Breakfast was vcr>' well attended, with an edifying representation from the Club. 
Two Christmas parties—one by the Alumni Club, and one by the Campus Club of Kansas City—are the other activities we have to report. 
Our No. 1 Boy in Korea is now Jimmy Metzler, 

'40. He was recalled to active duty in the Marine 
Corps and is now ser\'ing in the Korean theater as 
a major. He left Dec. 9. 
Mempliis 
Herewith news from the Notre Dame Club of 

Memphis: 
Ed Duke, *48, entered the army in January and is stationed at Camp Brcckcnridge, Kentucky. Joe Signaigo, *48, present vice-president of the Memphis Club is first lieutenant in the Marine Corps and is scheduled to leave in March to report for acti\-e duty. Eugene Podcsta, '48, present president of the Memphis Club, has been notified he will probably be recalled by the Nas-y in March. 
It has recently been announced that John Mon­tcdonico, A.B., '35, LL.B., '36, has become a part­ner in the law firm of Canale, Glankler, Little, Boone &. Loch, with offices in the Commerce Title Building in Memphis. Leo Buchignant, '44, recent­ly formed a law partnership under the firm name of Buchignani, Greener & Younger, with offices in the Shrine Building, Memphis. 
Barney Peebles, '48, has been given one of the leading roles in a play soon to commence at the Memphis Little Theatre. Tony McNicholas, *44, is now doing resident work at St. Joseph Hospital in Memphis. Billy Bond ol Brownsville, Tenn., an­nounces that he is soon to be married and Eddie r*fontcdotuco was not too long ago the proud father of a baby boy. 
Plans are being made for a gathering to cele­brate Universal Notre Dame Night in April. 
Miami 
Star attraction at the January* meeting of the Club was Vince Giblin. He was recently appointed to the bench of the Eleventh Judicial Circuit of Dade (Miami) County. 
The Judge and Fred Jones (Club Secretary) be­came a two-man committee to conduct the Feb. 22 Ladies' Night meeting of- the Club. The San Juan Restaurant was the scene of the "Club's hospitality to the ladies. 
In December, the Christmas "In-Betwccn" Party was highly successful. Walter Rowlands, Foundation City Chairman opened the meeting with a report on the Club's Foundation activity of the year. 
Michigan City, ind. 
The regular meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Michigan City, Ind., was held on Monday evening, January 15, at the K. of C. Hall. The annual elec­tion of ofiicers took place at this meeting. Walter 
A. Tlmm was elected president succeeding Dr. C. 
W. Kolanczyk, John Donnelly was elected vice-president succeeding Walter A. Timm, John Fiti­henry was elected secretary succeeding Phil W. Ott, and Frederick PilHard %vas reelected treasurer. Dr. Kolancz)'k became an ex-officio member of the Board of Directors. 
The installation of ofiicers will take place at the next meeting on February 19. 
Our club had a very successful year in 1950. The highlights were the Irish Greens Golf Party at the Long Beach Country Club and the football trip on the Monon Railroad to the Notre Dame-Indiana game at Bloomington. 
The club members are looking for\%'ard to similar events during 1951 rounding out a program of in­creased activity. 
New Jersey 
Religion will always be the most important sub­ject taught at the University, the Rev. Louis J. Thornton, Registrar, told members of the Notre Club of New Jersey at their annual Communion breakfast at the Alexander Hamilton Hotel. 
"Character building, and sound training in re­ligious priciples will always be given first considera­tion," Father Thornton said, "Any time we have to choose between brains and %*irtue, we'll choose virtue." 
Father Thornton scored critics who charge that Catholic educators interfere with academic freedom. He said that outside the realm of faith and morals, Notre Dame encourages the liveliest curiosity in ever>' field of knowledge. 
Notre Dame asks her students to accept and live ^r the timeless standards of the Catholic Church, Father said, but docs not demand that they ac-rcpt those standards blindly. Students nre given ivery opportunity to examine and weigh the proofs which the Church offers for Her claims, the regu­trar declared. 
The Most Rev. Thomas A. Boland, Bishop of Paterson, who presided at the affair, urged partici­pation in the Crusade of Prayer requested by the Holy Father. He commended the devotion of Notre Dame men to the Blessed Virgin, and pointed out that a second World War had engulfed the world and a third threatened because men had disregarded Our Lady*s pleading for penance and prayer in her \*arious apparitions. 
More (han 300 Notre Dame men and their friends attended the Mass in St. John's Cathedral, before breakfast. The success of the get-together was due, largely to the untiring efforts of Joseph Abbott, *30, club president, and Anthony J. Conti, '32, who was general chairman. 
Another year, another Board of Directors and some new officers. This was the new order of busi­ness at the January 17th monthly meeting at the Biltmore Hotel. Commissioner of Investigations Jim Sbdls, '35, turned over the presidency to former football captain Jim McGoIdrick, '39, and the other details fell to Frank Conforti, '42, as treasurer and Al Penine. '41. as secretary.. The latter two are assured of looking good in their sulministration with a fellow like McGoIdrick running the show. 
Jim hasn't lost any of the hustle that he exhibited on the ball field and the Club can look forward to the same performance in events to come. Vice presidencies were installed upon the experienced heads of Jack Hoyt, Bob Hamilton, Heib Gio^o, Tiemey O'Rourkc, and John McCanley cf the Glee Club fame. 
Members of the Board for the new year are: Ed Ttghe, Jerry Brown, KB Furlong, Kev Carley, Flnl Shea, Ed Beclunan, Bod CoocannDo, Jim Sheib, John Balfe, Jordan Hargrove, John Duffy, Gr ^ Rice and Jim Klein. 
Since laiit repotting the Club was afforded one of the finest Communion Breakfasts seen in these part* in manv a day. We would like to publicly state, again, that we are sorrv, to those who were unabt­to secure Uckets for the morning of December 10th but we do promise to try and take care of every­one at the next breakfast provided they don't wait until the last minute. 
Chairman Herb Gk>rgio again ran the proceedings and if he doesn't watch out he'll be running them for us all the time he remains in New York. Herb was successful in arranging for the acceptance of Police Commissioner Thomas F. Murphy and Father James Keller, M.M., director of the famed Chris­topher Movement as principal speakers—and better speakers to our way of thinking are difiicult to find. Approximately 400 persons attended Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral and breakfast later at the Bilt­more. Francis "Bugs" Walthcr, '23, again supplied our music and it was long into the afternoon be­fore the final guest departed. 
In addition to the standing Committees and their functions the following events have been penciled in during the coming yean the February monthly meeting on the 21st brings to us former world's champion Gen Tunney and Commissioner Eddie Eagcn—and a prod from Trust Fund Chairman Bob Hamiltwi to get going on his new raffle. This year Bob has outdone himself (as he seems to do each succeeding year) in raffing off t>vo round trips by air for 16 days to Europe, television sets and lots more too numerous to mention here. The Trust Fund, for the benefit of those unfamiliar with the operations, is a non-profit function of the Club which sees to it that two less fortunate young fel­lows from the Metropolitan area of New York are given scholarships to the University each year—so any of you who have received books and are lax xa filling them out, try and give Bob a hand in a work that is good beyond compare. 
As this goes to press the Club members are pack­ing and laying plans to attend the annual Retreat at Mount Tkfanrcsa—another function chairmanncd by the popular Herb Giorgio. Thus far, all the po­sitions reser^'cd for us are taken but next year we hope to have the entire Retreat House to ourselves for the weekend. February 26th brings the basket­ball squad for its annual set-to with NYU. 
A custom of having lunch at Toots Shores on the afternoon of the game seems to have sprung up about three years ago and become an established affair. The success of this event can be laid to the skillful direction of Jack Hoyt and it should be equally successful again this .year with Jack at the wheel. Frank Leahy, Moose Kraose, spbrtswiter Jynmy Powers and the football film "Highlights" are on the docket—attraction enough for any ban­quet. 
The March meeting already has John McQinlcT hard at work arranging for the annual show of the Glee Club in New York. From last year's tremen­dous show—arranged by the same McCauley—we can expect great things, but that's for another is­sue, as are the plans being set by U.NJ>. Night Chairman Ed Tighe for the 2nd of April and Presi­dent's Night In May with Father CUvanau^i—the highlight of the Spring meetings—and finally, but indeed not the least, the annual June sports meet­ing for which details are already being laid out— this one should be a wind-dlnger with Jim M ^ G<^drick and Jim Shefls handling affiurs. 
By next issue we believe we vnW be able to report 

January-February, 1951 
some solid news of the operations of Ed Bcckman's Placcmcni Committee—a new and comprehensive operation of the Club with more members partici­pating, but the wording might be only repetitious from past reports of former Chairman John Balfe. Vcr\- few members, we are sorr>' to say. know of the tremendous and unselfish work of John over the course ol the last 23 years. 
Xo, that's not a typograpliical error—23 years! John has undertaken to place Kicrally hundreds of 
N.D. men in \*anous jobs and fields of work— startins on his own l»ook back in 1928-^ and con­tinuing until 1935 when someone sought to give John a hand and help finance the cost of running this all important phase of tlic Club. If John were in the placement field as such, you might say it wasn't much—but he conducted all tins in addition lo running his own highly successful insurance busi­ness. If wc were to attemit to reimburse John fully for his expense and elTori. and the countless aid he afTorded both friend and new acquaintance, we're afraid tlie Club would b:* bankrupt shortly after. 
*"Why don't you go over and see John Balfc,*' was invariably the advire to the young graduate and the older fellow seeking a job or a change . . . and John always came through. The treasur\- of the Club, we're sure, would be overflowing if ii had a dollar for every friend John has in New York . . . and he acqi:ired these • net in a pressure-manner, but ratlier in a quiet unsrlfi^h and sincere way . . . and cvcrv' one an eventual friend of Notre Dame . . . they naturally became friends of Notre Dame on contacting tlie likes of John. This bit of writing is not done to blow the bugle for John, but more, a weak attempt to publicly thank Jolin for his past efforts and grace in being virtually a phi­lanthropi:t witli his time. John hasn't relinquished the reigns of the Placement Committee because of age or anything eke, but rather the pressure of increased business and maintenance of a larger staff has forced the activity to the hands of more men as it rightly should be and should have been done years back. That pleasant beaming countenance and familiar silvcr-whitc thatch, held erectly by John Balfc, will be aro'ind to ever\- New York Notre Damr Club function for many years to come and a finer fellow doesn't come to meetings. 


Northern California 

From ^larin County and East Bay points, the peninsula and elsewhere, members oi the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Northern California came to Ve­neio's Restaurant to pay tribute to Notre Dame participants in the East-West Shrine game. This year the young stalwarts were Jerrj' Groom, Billy Gay and Bob Williams, though the latter was un­able to play due to injuries suffered during the USC-ND scrap. Fred Peak was toastraasier for the evening and **S!ip" Madigan the chairman. Dennis Heenan, athletic director for Santa Clara, was kind enough to drive the "lads" to the affair and back. 
.A.fter the usual remarks about California weather, the honored guests passed on to the members a few-humorous insides about the team and some of the games. This verbal delight was well received and climaxed an enjoyable cx'cning of fried chicken a la 
Shrine Game Players in Frisco 
Seated, Bob Williams, Jerry Groom, Club Chaplain Father Dahl, Club President Bill Daley and Dennis Heenan. Standing, Bill Gay and Fred Peak. 
Viennese, congenial companionship and well-deserv'ed tribute to three Notre Dame men. 

President Bill Daly sparked an innovation on the Club's agenda by holding a business meeting for all members on February 1. Tlic members met at the Marine Memorial Club for a buffet dinner. Future plans and ideas were discussed openly by the mem­bers and a blueprint of anticipated events and club polic\' was initiated. 
In conjunction, the new officers for the coming year were also elected. Attorney George Thomas was elected president. Bob Tarvcr, also an attorney, vice president, and Frank M. Perez was re-elected treasurer. 

Three new directors were elected to replace the outgoing. They are Brccn McDonald, A. W. Mc-Mullen and Mike McDermott. 
Frank Culhane, Lt. (j.g.) USN, is in San Fran­cisco for a spell. Frank is the executive officer aboard the destroyer USS Colohan. 
The next impoi^ant event on the agenda is Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. Date and place will be announced to members via mail. ItUl be in early April and truly promises to be an outstanding cvenr. 
Soinu new names arc in tlie area . . . Robert E. Daly, Dr. R. J. Daschbah, R. G. Greer, Western 
Connecticut Valley Turnout tor Communion 
One of the more active small clubs in the Alumni Association holds stiU for a group portrait at the Dec 10 Communion Breakfast. 
Regional Manager for International Har\*ester Motor Truck Division. C. A. Imbodcn, Jr., Zane J. Sambodom, District Manager American Express Co., and Richard A. Glass, who is studying for his mas­ter's degree ai the University of California. 

Oregon 

Dr. Ralpl) M. Prag, '26, and Mrs. Prag were host to the Club and their ladies at an informal party in the Prag home designed to acquaint some of the newer members with the gang. Mrs. Prag had tlie assistance of daughters Grctchen and Susan in her hostess duties, while brother John supervised the parking arrangements. The Club is grateful to the Prags for the gracious atmosphere of the first Club party. 
On hand were Phil and Mrs. Berthiaiune, *28; Dom and Mrs. Callicrate, '08; Fred Cunningham, '30; AI and Mrs. Gross, '46; H. J. and Mrs. Har­ucck, *25; AI Hodlcr, '23, and guest; Norfa Kava­naush, *26; Hugh and Mn. Laoey, U6; Hu^, Jr. and Mrs. Lacey, '47; Barney and Mrs. Macnab, '25; Tom Magee, '32: Jim Maletis* '50; J. J. McCarthy, '01; Natt Jr. and Mrs. McDougall, '33; Ed, '38, and Pbil, '50, Mcaney; President Oscar C. Quoid­bach, '48: Pete and Mrs. Sandrock, '39; Ed and Mrs. Sandstran, '39; Floyd and Mrs. Simmons, '47; Tom and Mrs. Trixler, '47: Pete and Mrs. Trixler, *48. Also joining us were Mr. and Mrs. Louis H. Moran, parents of Justin Moran, '54, and ^fr. and Mrs. James W. Murphy, parents of James W. Mur­phy, '52. 
Dr. Prag has been recalled to active duty and wc shall miss his spirit at our aff^rs. 
In the same group called up is Phil M;aney, who had just started on a career in general insurance, following the footsteps of brother Ed, who heads one of the largest agencies in Portland. Hugh Lacey, Jr., *47, recovered from the arrival of his daughter, announces his aflination with Jewctt, Barton, Lcavy &. Kern, another of the largest agencies in town. Proportionately, it would seem that the general insurance business claims more local Club men than anv other. 
The stork has been bus>- on the airlift with the latent crop to members' families. Cheryl Ann came to Joe, '49, and Mrs. O'Reilly on January 15. Con-Sratulations, Joe! The Dorwin Palmeis, '43, and Tom Magecs, *32, nearly made it a dead heat again this year. Tast time out. Sheila ^fagee won by a couple of hours. 
This year, Terre Ann Palmer made it by a week lo the hour before Mike Magee! Your honored sec­retaries (Mrs. Magee usually carries this chore from my scribbled notes), after three girls have a candi-
The Noire Dame Alumnus 

ball and a monosrammed blanket. This proved to 
Mr. B. Goes to Washington fine financial ' •
be a boost to the club's treasury. 
Our annual Cfunmunion Breakfast .was held on Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, De c 10th. The committee was headed by Tom Howler, '49. We had Rcr. Bemard A. McCafferTt C.S.C., '36, as our speaker. Father McCafTery is now ch^i­lain at the Holy Cross Brothers Juniorate at Va­tatic, N. Y. He also assists Father Patrick Feytoii, C.S.C., with the Family Rosary Crusade in Albany and has hts own column in the magazine "Our Lady of the Snows." Father gave us an inspiring talk on the ^'Family and the Notre Dame man." 
A very fine turnout of alumni and fathers were on hand for both the &fass and Breakfast. As our guests we had Brother Christian, C.S.C., principal 
^ 
of Vincentian Institute In Albany, and a classmate of Father McCaiTery's; and also Brother Brcnnaii, C.S.C, of V. L 
The Christmas Formal held at the Locomotive Club in Schenectady, imder the chairmanship of Frank Lin^han, '45, (who does own two pair of glasses] was a very successful affair. The club was decorated with the holiday and University colors. There were flower decorations on each table and corsages were ^vcn to the girls. We had the same as in previous years, one of the heaviest snowfalls of the year the day of the dance. However, instead of Politics Prof. Paul Baltholomcw with the University and St. Mary's students he annually dampening our spirits it just added more beauty to the setting for the dance and no one had to come 
takes to Washington, D. C. They were guests this year of Walter Trohan, '26, Wash­
by snow-shoe. ington Bureau head of the Chicago Tribune. 
Plans for our Universal Notre Dame Night pro­gram were discussed at a meeting held January 25rd. President BiU Leonard has appointed Dr. 
date for the ND line. Judging by his pudg>- frame. tion setups and suggested greater local club interest Charles E. Welsh, '38, who holds his B.S., Master's, Father is and support of the larger aims of the University. 
 recovering. and Doctorate from N. D., as chairman of the 
Next events on the Club calendar will be Uni­Father Lawless centered his remarks around the affair. We are hopeful that this will be one of the versal Notre Dame Night on April 2 (Adv.) and much forgotten fact that education consists in train­outstanding events of the year and that all alumni the annual Club Retreat at Loyola House of Re­ing of both the mind and the heart, and that Notre in the Capital District will join with us on this treats in May. Dame alumni should always remember to be worthy evening. 
of the great University which they attended. 
With regret we learn of the passing of Austin J. President Leonard has appointed Charles Flanigan, Barlow, '31, formerly of Chicago, who resided the John Briley did a good job as chairman of this *39, as chairman of the nominating committee. 
last few years in Salem, Ore. President Quoidbach event, and he w-as ably assisted by Jack Monte^'crde. Elections will be held at our next business meeting and past president Pete Sandrock received word in They both arc grateful for the support the event March 6th. time to act as pallbearers. Our sympathy goes to received and hope all enjoyed the breakfast. 
Here Is some new*s on a few of our members: 
his family, and a Mass is to be offered in the
 name At the Universal Communion Breakfast, Father 
Our two servicemen members, Lt. William Findi, of the Club. 
Brennan paid tribute to the late John J. McMahon, 
'49, of the Marines and Pvt. Raymond Zasada, 
R. James Mahoney, '31, is the new district man­Pennsylvania State Foundation Governor and offered '49, of the Army were home for the holidays. ager of Grinncll Company of the Pacific and is a prayer for the repose of his soul. Glowing tributes supervising the erection of their new warehouse to John ^fcMahon's character, ability, and accom­
John J. Meehan, '23, has been appointed Head of the Dept. of Water for the City of Schenectady. 
here. Jim came here from a similar supervisory job plishments were recently published in the Mellon Institute News Hygiene Digest. He had been serving as senior engineer in the in Pocatello, via Seattle- We hope to have Jim  and the Industrial department. 
with us for a long time. Myles A. Duffy was recently elected Seca-etary of 
We are all very happy to hear of the election of the Edison Golf Club. 

Schenectady 
Bill Schmitt, '10, to the Alumni Board of Directors. 
Congratulations, Bill—and are we glad. The Schenectady Club has been quite active in John A. Hcdiand, Jr., '41, Is serving as president the past two months and here is a brief summary' of the Schenectady Life Undenvriters Assoc, this of the happenings. year. 
Pioneer Valley 
A business meeting was held on November 14th, Dr. Dan J. Roorke, '43, resident physician at 
The Pioneer Valley Club has a new president— at which time we awarded an autographed foot­Ellis Hospital Is also serving as team .physician for John F. Shea, he of the "Victory March." He was elected at our winter meeting in the Yankee Pedlar Inn, Holyoke, Mass. 
Art Demcrs of Springfield is 1st Vice-President; Hubert Crane of Northampton, 2nd Vice-President; Jobn F. Sullivan, Jr., of Holyolcc, is Secretary, and 
Boston's Luncheon for the Archbishop 
TcHn F. Dunn, Springfield, is Treasurer. Four new members to the Board of Governors were named. They are Bob Campbell, Springfield; Ulric Rucll, Holyoke; Ray Snyder, Chlcopec, and Charles Beaulisu, Longmeadow. President Jobn Shea gave tentative plans for bringing the University Band to this vicinity, pref­erably during the Easter vacation. 

Pittsburgh 
The Universal Communion Breakfast was held with great success on December 10, 1940, at St. Mary, of Mcrc>' Church at the Point. A large crowd attended and received at the 10 o'clock Mass. Father Daniel Lawless, pastor, welcomed the group and preached the sermon. Breakfast followed at Dutch Henry's second floor with more than 40 present. Guest speakers included Father Cajetan, 
C.P. of St.' Paul's Monastery, Father Daniel Law­less^ and our own Father Vince Brennan. John Bri> ley acted as toastmaster. 
Father Caje'tan in'urging.the group to attend the Annual Retreat in January") warned that all should keep in mind a sense of proportion between the ma­terial and spiritual, and that^'in these dark times it pays to stop cvcryr^nce. iii^a while to get back to normal. • •^^^''^ 
Archbishop Graner's surprise visit to Boston resulted in a luncliean in his honor, hastily 
Father Brennan' very interestingly outlined the organization and goals of the Alumni and Founda­
but well rounded up by Club Preddent Jack Nye Duffey. 
Siena College basketball team. Siena is making quhc a name for itself in basketball circles and is coach­
Knighthood of St. Gregory for Alumnus 
ed by a felioH* alumnus and former star athlete Dan 
Cnnha. 
As of Jan. 23rd, they were ranked 13th in the 

nation and also maintain the second best defensive 
rating in the nation. 
Although their announcements appear under their 

respective classes, our congratulations to new papas 
Bud Biittner, Ray Fitzserald, Bob Eckel and Tom 
HowIe>'. Also our congrats to two recently engaged 
alumni: Bill Leonard and Ray Zasada. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Geo. T. Biittner, Jr., M3, a son, Brian, on Oct. 23rd. To Mr. and ^^^s. Thos. A. Howlcy, M9, a son, Tliomas Michael, on Jan. 24th. To Mr. and Mrs. Ra>-mond Fitzgerald, '49, a daughter, Karen Marie, Dec. 23rd. 
ENGAGEMENTS Mbs Miriam M. McGralh to William G. Leon­ard, Jr.. '49. Miss Eleanor Ann Govel to Ra>-mond Zasada, '49. 

Scraiiton 
Traditional ob5cr\*ance of annual Communion Sun­

day for all Notre Dame alumni on the Sunday 
nearest the Feast of the Immaculate Conception was 
held December lO, 1950, in the cliapcl of Vcnard 
Scminarj', Clarks Green, Pa. 
Tlie gracious hospitality of the Mar>'knoll Fathers made it possible for the Club to hear Mass in their private chapel. A Communion breakfast fol­lowed in the dining room of the seminar^-. 
A large number of the active members were in attendance. 

Southern Tier (N. Y.) 
As the climax of this Club's first year of organiza­tion, a most successful Christmas Get Together was held Dec. 27 at the Langwell Hotel, Elmira. 
TIic Club staged a cocktail hour, dinner and a genuine Notre Dame talk session afterwards. Help­ing complete the occasion were the University stu­dents from this region, attending the Get Together as Club guests. 
Secretary- Paul McCabs of Elmira descr\es a bow for making the affair the success it was. 

St. Louis 
TIic Notre Dame Club activities since last writ­ing have been plentiful, successful and well attend­ed. The Christmas Communion Breakfast was ably handled by Tom White, and was held at Candle­light House following Mass at Immacolata Church, which has for its pastor. Father \VUUam Rcc\'es, the club chaplain and alumnus who is very interest­ed in club actinties, and has generously opened his 
L to R, Emmett Walter, '14, and Mrs. Walter, Mr. and Mis. John Young, parents of three alumni and Mr. and Mrs. Norman Boudrcaux, all of Houston, at investiture ceremonies. 
parish house to club functions on numerous occa­sions. 
Father Daniel Moore, the guest speaker, who is a popular parish priest, spoke on the benefits to be gained and received by way of our alumni help­ing in parish activities. He feels that Notre Dame men, through their training and their interest in their religion could do a great deal toward helping tlieir pastors, and in hb talk he was mindful of the fact that his particular parish is well furnished with Notre Dame men who are active and helpful in these functions. It was a ver\- interesting talk, and verv* appropriate for the occasion. 
The Christmas Dance was held at Sunset Country Club, and was well attended by both students and alumni. Tom KfcDcrmott had started the plans and work as committee chairman of the event, but tem­porary* illness caused his ^vithdrawal, and Fred Weber replaced him as chairman. Those who at­tended feci that the dance was so well given, and so enjoyable, that it would be as other events are, an effective way of directing the interest of students and new alumni in the club, and its activities. 
The basketball team played St. Louis University recently, and the day of the game a luncheon was held at the Missouri Athletic Club, which had been arranged by Bob HeUrung. This meeting was very interesting vfixh Bob Bums, the sports editor of the "Globe-Democrat" acting as toastmaster, and Eddie Hickcy, St. Louis Universit>- coach, and Moose 
Two Captains and the Shellalegh 
1930 captain Jerry Groom (bow tie), hands 1931 Captain Jim Mutscheller the emblem of his position. Father Caranaugh, University President, and Mel Allen, Football Banquet toastmaster, at right. Bud Wilkinson, Oklahoma, left. 
Kraiise answering questions c:onccrning basketball. Father Reeves gave a breakfast at his parish house for the team members. 
The Club, of course, as usual arranged so that alumni received ticket preference. Father Sheedy, head of the Department of Religion at the Univer­sity, was present at the luncheon, as was Father Reeves, our chaplain, and Father Donahue, vice-president of St. Louis University, who attended in place of Father Rcincrt, president of St. Louis Uni­versity', who was ill and unable to attend. 
There was 3 party given recently at the Hyde Park Brewery rathskeller, \intx FeUig, Club presi­dent personally arranged for this meeUng, and during the course of it wc learned from Joe &Ic-Glynn that Dr. Matt Wcis has been made chair­man of the Notre Dame Foundation. Dr. Weis, in taking over this hcaxy, time-consuming, important work, is certainly to be commended, for he is one of the busiest men in the Club, haWng a medical practice which takes so much time, and of course Dr. Wcis was very busy with Club and University activiUes prior to the acceptance of this added responsibility. 
He is, as you know, on the National Board of 

Directors of the University-. A more interested, de­
\'otcd and loyal member could certainly not be 
found in the Club. The members present promised 
Dr. Weis that they would help him with this re­
sponsibility, and we know that the Club members 
will realize that it is up to them to support him 
fully. 
Joe McGlynn, in his talk, indicated that it was important to the University and Dr. ^Veis and the Club that the members give him ma.ximum help. 
Dr. Weis was appointed City Chairman of the Foundation to replace Dr. Bert Coughlin, who had been chairman for sometime, but has moved from St. Louis to Minneapolis. The Notre Dame Club has suffered in losing Dr. Coughlin, for he had been very interested and active in many important and time-consuming Club activities. He was chair­man of the Football Trip Committee for years, on the Board of Directors of the Club, and has held various ofHccs in the Club. He is certainly one of the best known and most popular members of the Club. 
There will be a Club election in the coming month, wherein approximately seven new Board members will be selected. 

Syracuse 
The Communion Breakfast on December 10 was really an enjoyable affair. The members assisted at eight o'clock Mass at St. John the Baptist Church, and recei^'ed Holy Communion in a bfxly. The Breakfast was held at Tubberts Restaurant, Court Street, and the group was enlarged by several alum­ni who, not being able to travel to St. John's for early &Iass, recei\-ed at their own church. The meal put on tiy Tubberts was probably one of the finest breakfasts ever had anyH'here. Breakfast is not or­dinarily served at this restaurant, but due to the greatly appreciated efforts of Jack McAuliffe, chair-
man of the affair, an exception was made for the 
Notre Dame Qnb. 
Plans for the next scheduled, meeting of the club 

have had to be temporarily shelved due to the 
Alumni Association's difficulty in distributing the 
1950 "Highlights" film. There was to have been 
a get-together at Haberle*s during the early part 
of Febntary at which time the pictures of last sea* 
son were to be shown. Since the University was 
unable to secure a definite release date for the film, 
the event will be postponed until after Lent, and 
will probably be held in the latter part of April. 
At the Communion Breakfast plans were disctissed 

for Universal Notre Dame Night, April 2. The ar­
arrangements are as yet incomplete but word will 
be sent to the members as soon as possible. 
Social News: Paul W. (Bill) KcUey was married 

to the former Miss Sally O'Byme on Saturday, 
November 25, in the Church of the Most Holy 
Rosary. 

Toledo 
The Toledo Club's annual holiday dance was held 

December 29 in the Grand Ballroom of the Com­
modoTc Perry Hotel. Approximately 200 couples 
turned out to hear Gene Williams and his orchestra. 
Doin Hummer served as general chairman of the dance. He was assisted by the followmg committee: Jim Detzer, patrons; AI Heckler, music; Joe Hille­brand, publicity; George Korfaumel, tickets; Jim Malone, invitations; Bob Schramm, decorations; and Dick Tillman, arrangements. 
The Club's first general meeting of the new year was held January 12 in the Synod Hall at Rosary Cathedral. President Jack Solon reviewed the group's operations in 1950 while secretary Bob Kopf and treasurer Bud Kfalone brought members up to date in their respective fields. A group discussion was held and tentative plans made for 1951. 
Joe Hillebrand added "Lt., USNR" to his name January 15 when he was called back to service. He is stationed at the naval base at Norfolk at present (BOQ a-52. Room 144). Two other alumni club members, Mike Hoefiingcr and Lee Mara, have also recently left for service. 
The election of new officers and board members will take place shortly. Plans arc already underway for a big Universal Notre Dame Night celebration. 

Tri-Cities 
St. Ambrose College in Davenport was the scene of this year's Universal Communion Breakfast. 
Breakfast was ser\'cd in the college dining hall. AI Ersldne was chairman of the event, and man­aged to bring out a good percentage of the mem­bership. 
The Tri-City Club joined with the other alumni clubs in observing the Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday on December 10. AI Ersldne arrang­ed for approximately 25 members to attend \fass and receive communion in a chapel on the campus of St. Ambrose College, Davenport. A breakfast was held immediately thereafter in the faculty dinner hall. Father Marlin of the College Speech Depart­ment spoke briefly on the present Catholic education problem. Jerry Arnold, club president, concluded the affair with a business meeting. It was decided by vote to send the Notre Dame Foundation Fund a monetary contribution in the club's name. 
The Club's December activities did not cease here —as the present students and their fathers were entertained at a Christmas luncheon, Dec. 27, at the LeClaire Hotel in Moline. Joe Kearney guided the luncheon to a successful end. Jack Bush, Art Perry, and Bob Martin discussed the prospects for the coming football season. Jerry Arnold did a fine job in informing the students and guests on the purpose and activities of the Alumni Association on a local and national level. 
What are the ladies doing? 

Well their January 31 luncheon was another social success. Mrs. Vance Uhlmeyer and Mrs. Ed &fea­gher entertained as hostesses for 30 of the wives at the Fort Armstrong Hotel in Rock Island. Mrs. Jerry Culligan and Mrs. Joe Kearney conducted a very amusing afternoon during the February meeting which was held in Moline. 
Washington, D. C. 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was observed by J87 local alumni of the University of Notre Dame Sunday, Dec. 10, at Holy Cross Col­lege, 4001 Harewood Road, N.E., under the Notre Dame Club of Washington. 
The Notre Dame men received Holy Communion at a Mass said in the college chapel by the Rev. 
January-February, 1951 
Vincent J. McCauley, C.S.C., Superior of the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Seminary and chaplain of the dub. 
Afterwards, a Communion Breakfast was held in the college refectory. Speakers at the breakfast were the Very Rev. Bernard E. Rannng, C.S.C, Superior of Holy Cross College; the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.P., of St. Paul's College, Catholic University; and Thomas J. Flynn, president of the Notre Dame Club of Washington. Robert J. Mollea, a Navy Department ofHcial, presided. 
Special prayers were said at the Mass for world peace, for the welfare of Notre Dame men now serving in the United States Armed Forces, and for the repose of the souls of Americans killed in World ^Va^ II and the Korean War, especially for those of the 352 Notre Dame alumni and former students who died in World War H 
Youngstown 
The Voungstown Club honored one of its members, John Mayo, now outfielder for the Philadelphia Phillies, at a meeting Jan. 23 at the American Legion Hall. Mayo spoke briefly; then Charles Riffle, now head football coach at Warren G. Hard* ing High School, Warren, Ohio, presented him with a gift on behalf of the dub. 
Color movies of campus life were enjoyed. Frands Hopkins, '41, was re-elected president, and George Kelley, '28, secretary-treasurer. The new vice president is R. Griffith Allen, '48. Trus­tees re-elected are Gabriel E- Moran, Richard A. Riley and Paul Fleming. 
The'dub is planaias a qvectal program for ^rit 2, Universal Notre Dame Ni^t . ' 
Neariy 20 men attended the Commuiiioa bieak­fast hdd by the Youngstown Club ax the Hotel Pick-Ohio, following Mass at St. Colun^ba Cathe­dral. Rev. Dominic CorigUano, O.P., assistant pas­tor of St. Draninic Church, spoke at the breakfast. Fraadi HnpHwj preudent, presided and Ja ^ Aik­gaa presented the speaker. 
Byrne Needs Books 
Paul Byrne, Director of University Libraries has asked the Alumnus to hdp the University in augmenting its col­lection of Oriental and Slavonic mater­ial. 
Mr. Byrne hopes that some of the Alumni veterans of the ETC or South Pacific still have some of the souvenirs (in the form of books, periodicals or manuscripts) they brought home, and that they are willing to contribute them to the Library. 
"We would welcome," Mr. Byrne says, "anything of this type, and there are men on the faculty with the language equipment to make use of such printed matter." 
CLASS SECRETARIES 
1890-1899 1900-1904 ROBERT E. PROCTOR, Monger Building, Elkhart, Indiana 
1905-1909 1910 1911 FRED L. STEERS, 105 S. LaSalle St., 
Chicago 3, Illinois 1913 PAUL R. BYRNE, University Library, 
Notre Dame, Indiana 1914 1915 JAMES E. SANJORD, 509 Cherry St., 
Winnetka, Illinois 1916 GROVER F. MILLER, 612 Wisconsin Ave., Racine, Wisconsin 1917 EDWARD J. MCOSKER, 2205 Briar­wood Rd., Cleveland Hgts. 18, O. 1918 GEORGE E. HARBERT, 108 North Main St., Sycamore, Illinois 1919 THEODORE C. RADEMAKER, Peru Foundry Company, Pern, Indiana 1920 RALPH W. BERGMAN, 1609 N. Jeffer­son Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 
1921 DAN W. DUFFY, 1101 N.B.C. Build­ing, Cleveland 14, Ohio • 1922 GERALD A. ASHE, 39 Cambridge St., 
Rochester 7, New York 1923 PAUL H. CASTNER, 1305 W. Arling­ton Ave., St. Paul, Minnesota 1924 REV. THOMAS A. KELLY, C.S.C, Cavanaugh Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 1925 JOHN P. HURLEY, 1218 City Park Ave., Toledo, Ohio 1926 JOHN J. RYAN, 2434 Greenleaf Ave., Chicago, Illinois 1927 JOSEPH M . BOLAND, Radio Station WSBT, South Bend, Indiana 1928 LEO R. MCINTYRE, 3004 Turner St., AUentown, Pa. 1929 DONALD J. PLUNKETT, Biology De­partment, Notre Dame, Indiana 
1930 DEVERE PLUNKETT, Social Science Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 1931 WALTER F. PHILLIP, 4 Pickwick Lane, Newton Squar, Philadelphia 1932 JAMES K. COLLINS, 17 Triangle Ave., Dayton 9, Ohio 1933 JOSEPH D . A. MCCABE, Rosary Col­lege, River Forest, Illinois 1934 EDWARD F. MANSFIELD, 6575 N. Glenwood, Apt. 1, Chicago, Illinois 1935 FRANKLYN C . HocHRErrEK, 1327 Pentwood Rd., Baltimore 12, Md. 
1936 JOSEPH F. MANSFIELD, 423 S. Main St, Crown Point, Indiana 1937 FRANK J. REIIXY, 1651 Metropolitan 
Ave., Apt. 7F, New York 62, N. Y. 1938 CHARLES M . CALLAHAN, Sports Pub­licity Dept., Notre Dame, Indiana 
1939 VINCENT DECOUBSEY, 1917 Eliza­beth, Kansas City 2, Kansas 1940 ROBERT G. SANFORO, 1103 £. Ken­sington Blvd, Shorewood, Wis. 1941 JOHN W . PATTERSON, JR., 5530 Dar­lington Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 1942 WILLIAM E. SCANLAN, 400 E. 111th St., Chicago 28, Illinois 1943 JOHN L. WIGGINS, 6442 Latta St., Dallas, Texas 1944 WiLLLOt F. TALBOT, 300 Main St., White Plains, New York 1945 AL LESMEZ, 61-56 82nd St., Ehn­hurst. New York 1946 JOHN TENGE, JR., 912 Lovett Blvd., 
Houston, Texas 1947 1948 HERMANN A. Zrrr, Dayton Product 
Co., Warren at Apple, Dayton, O. 1949 JOHN P. WALKER, 135 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Illinois 
Contributions from Classes in 1930 totalled $2,032,437.94 
Alumni Classes 

Before 1900 
Benjamin C. Bachradi, Chicago's first public de­fender, and for many years a prominent criminal lawyer, died Jan. 2 in Chicago. 
In 1930 Mr. Bachrach gave up a lucrative lau* practice to accept appointment as Public Defender, when that position was created. Subsequently he helped draw up the original Illinois parole reform bill. 
Mr. Bachrach resigned in 1945 because of ill health and had been hospitalized for several years. 
1904 

From Robert E. Proctor: Two letters from the '04 class, apparently evoked by your secretary-'* belief that only 34 of us are still liWng. They speak for thcmscvles: Mr. Robert E. Proctor Elkhart, Ind. Dear Bob: I have yours of Oct. 18, 1950, in re W Class or­ganization and it's a fine job that you did. Ver>* fine. Nine days later comes a letter from Harry Hogan and a copy of names of 34 living members of '04 class with addresses. There arc more alive than 34. Only last summer John Duggan Quinn— more dapper than ever—of 319 West Chclton Ave.. Philadelphia—visited me in Rapid City. (I maintain my Rapid City home and work here for Uncle Sam.) As I look over my class picture, I figure that other live members arc George Gormley, Father Eugene Burke, Father Ir\-ing, Fred Casper, Arthur S. Stein­cr of Monroe, Mich., and Charles P. Kahler with the U. P. at their Omaha offices. Louis Care>''s whereabouts is doubtful (something like that of Pat 0*Shca) Benjamin Enriquez of Chihuahua and Igna­do Tomlin of Guadalajara, may have been lost after Diaz lost out in Mexico, but again Eduardo Hay, about '02, may have taken care of them. I think that Jimmy Armstrong better look deeper in the bottom of his files. 
Yes, indeed—the Good Lord willing—I will meet with the class in 1954. 
I still have all my X. D. school photos and if I were home just now, I could give you the names of some '04 lawyers that have been overlooked, 
I and my son, Tom, saw the Michigan State game on Oct. 28^my first \-isit to the school since '39, when X. D. took Minnesota, 19-7, In '44 I was on wap plant construction and could not get away. 
With the best of wishes to you and yours, I hope to see you in '54 if not sooner. You have been a good and diligent class secretory'. 
Yours truly, Harry W. Zolper Igloo, South Dakota 

Dear Bob: Am, a little late in answering your letter of the 16th ultimo regarding the new s\-stem by which the 1904 Class Acti«tics will be handled in the future. I quite agree with you that since our ranks are tliinning appreciably with each successive year, we should grow closer to one another. This particular thought was emphasized to me when Harry Hogan*s letter enclosing a list of the sur\*iving members of the 1904 Civil Engineers: John D. Quinn, Arthur E, Stetner, Benjamin Enriquez, and ' Gaston. Can you give me any information on these four classmates of mine, such as when they passed away and what happened to them? I had read in the ALUMNUS some time-ago that Tom Donnelly and Charles P. Kahler had passed to the great beyond but I have never seen anything regarding the four men indicated above. 
Your recent letter referred to our getting together for our 50th Anniversary in 1954. You may rest assured that nothing would give me greater pleasure than to be able to attend such a gathering. In Han^' Hogan*5 letter, Hany- stated: "I am in hopes that some more distantly situated will make an effort to join us in the Reunion next year." This seems to be at \-ariance with your 50th Anniversary' reunion. 
Regarding myscU, I retired in June, 1940, from the executive staff of Devoe and Raynolds Company 
22 
due to poor health. I had been with that company 
for 18 years and had been a vice president, treas­
urer and a director for the greater part of that 
time. In recent years, I have taken considerable ­
interest, as mucli as my present health will permit, 
in the affairs of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago 
as well as the University of Notre Dame Foundation 
of Chicago. My home is at the Edgcwatcr Beach 
Apartments where I often see BjTon V. Kanaley 
who resides in the same building. Frequently, we 
reminisce the good old days surrounding the Golden 
Dome. During the summer, I spend four months 
with my family at our summer place at Crystal 
Lake, Illinois, au-ay from the heat and bustle of 
the big city. In the fall, I tr>- to see as many Notre 
Dame football games as I can and frequently run 
into a member of our old class. 
With best personal wishes, I am 
Sincerely yours of the 1904 Class 
A. C. Slephan, 5555 Sheridan Road, 
Chicago, in. 
1907 

James D. Jordan, attorney- of Scranton, Pa., takes issue in the recent Ivy League controversy over University of Pennsv-Ivania's scheduling of No­tre Dame in football. The controversy' has since abated to a whisper, but Mr. Jordan's letter to the "Catholic Light," of Scranton, Pa., bears reprint­ing. 
To refresh: an eager reporter had pegged his 

story "involving scholastic standards" on the ageless 
and always quotable ''reliable source." 
Mr, Jordan's letter: 

"As an alumnus of Notre Dame, Class of 1907, T wish to make a few comments: First of all, there is no taint of communism among the teaching staff at Notre Dame. It is my opinion that this can­not be said of all the Ivy League colleges. 
"Anyone familiar with the scholastic standards of Notre Dame must admire the galaxy of intellec­tual giants which her teaching staff has produced, including Rev. Julius Nieuwiand, inventor of syn­thetic rubber; Jerome Green who sent the first wire-' less message in America; Albert 2^hm, pioneer in areonautics who blueprinted the first airplane on the Notre Dame campus many years before the Wright brothers became famous; James A. Reynicrs who established the first germ-free laboratory in the world on the Notre Dame campus twelve years ago; and any list of Notre Dame greats would be incom­plete without mention of Knute Rockne, greatest football mentor in history. 
"Any chemist is familiar with LOBUND, as any lawyer is familiar with the Natural Law Institute f^tablishcd a few years ago at Notre Dame and attended annually by some of the greatest lawyers and scholars from all parts of the world, 
*'Any historian is familiar with th<» Mediaeval Institute of Notre Dame, and any student of inter­national affairs is familiar with the 'ReWew of Politics,* sponsored by Notre Dame. Some other outstanding projects recently started are the Notre Dame Afarriage Institute, the Notre Dame Econom­ics Forum, the Notre Dame Symposium on Soviet Russia, and the Notre Dame Bureau of Youth Counselling. 
"When I was a student at Notre Dame we had more candidates for the debating team than for the football team, and in my time thirteen victories and no defeats in debating. 
"As an indication that Notre Dame still goes in for debating in a big way, AVilliam Carey, Notre Dame debater, was the individual college champion at the West Point Invitation Debate Tournament in 1949, and Notre Dame debaters in the 1949 season had 80 victories and 28 defeats, not so im­pressive as the fact of the 13 consecutive victories from 1903 to 1907, but the number of Notre Dame intercollegiate debates in 1949 and other recent years indicates the fart that they still go in for debating in a big way. 
"For the second year in a row the Naval Reserve Officers' Training Corps unit at Notre Dame was first in the 1949 William Randolph Hearst Rifle Competition, and for the second time in as manv 
years Donald J. Murphy of Notre Dame topped 
the field in individual marksmanship. 
"The 'Pennsylvania Gazette,' alumni monthly of 
the University of Pennsylvania, in a recent issue 
published a list of donations by the alumni of the 
leading universities for tlic year 1949. The list 
showed that the contributions by Notre Dame alum­
ni for 1949 exceeded the contributions of the alum­
ni of any other university in America to such an 
extent that the total was more than the combined 
totals of the alumni of tlic universities which were 
second and third on the list, and more than the 
totals reported by Yale, Harvard and Princeton 
combined, although the total register of alumni of 
Notre Dame is less than 20,000. 
*'The contributions to some universities from out­
side sources exceeded the contributions to Notre 
Dame, but the list referred to contains only con­
tributions by alumni, and in this category Notre 
Dame is far in the lead. 
*'It might seem fair to assume that one reason 
why Notre Dame is so far in the lead is because 
her alumni arc more successful in a financial way 
than the average college alumnus, but that is not 
necessarily so. The real reason is because of the 
fond recollections of a happy and harmonious cam­
pus life" that I have ever seen, in an atmosphere of 
pure democracy, where there are no fraternities, 
and under the patronage of the Mother of God. 
whose name Notre Dame proudly bears. 
"That is the Notre Dame spirit. If that spirit 
wins football games, we can be sure that the same 

spirit wins in the game of life, and that the happy 
cultural background of Notre Dame campus Hfc 
has produced the most loy-al group in America 
today. 
**Yours very truly, 
**James D. Jordan.** 
1912 

Rrv. Thomu E. Burke, C.S.C., asks that his name be removed from the list of class secretaries, claiming that he was not one to begin with. 
Father Burke's duties at the Ave ^faria Press keep him too occupied to gather class news, but the Alumni Secrctar>- (or his assistant) will welcome any class news which might other^visc be addressed to Father Burke. 
Regrettably, the ALUMNUS rcoorts the death last autumn of Father Edward J. Howard, recently pastor of St. Aloysius, St. Johnsbury, Vermont. Father Howard was ordained in J915 and held i.'arious pastorates in Vermont, being appointed to St. .Moysius in 1943. 
One brother, Thomas of Bellows Falls, Vt.. and three sisters. Miss Gertrude Howard of St. Johns-bury, Miss Lena Howard of Bellows Falls, and Mrs. 
T. P. Fitzgerald of Providence, R. L, survive. 
1915 

From Jim Sanford: New address for you to send your deadline notices: we moved from Winnctka to Chicago—1429 W. Far­ragut Ave., Chicago 40—and I've been neglecting my correspondence. 
At the annual election of the Chicago Club in January Father Cavanaugh gave a great address and this class secretary is about to become a one-man committee to see that such speeches are record­ed so Chicago can share them with other alumni groups. 
What with moving and everything else there isn't much class news, but if we had a class award I'd like to present it to Joe Farrell in recognition of his appointment as Foundation Governor of the State of Pennsyl vania. There couldn't have been a better choice, and Joe's classmates will second the appointment 100 per cent. 
Emmclt Walter of Houston doesn't legally get into our class as he got a Ph.B. in 1914. But he got an A.M. in 1913 and LL.B. in 1916, and the 1915 class secretarj- feels he is perfectly in order by congratulating Emmctt on receiving the Knight­hood of St. Gregory from His Holiness last Decem­ber. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

1911 
From Kcrre de Lunden in Brussels, Belgium: '*I will let you know the telephone number^ also, in case some friend of Notre Dame will be passing through Brussels on the way to duty in Germany, or just taking a holiday. "If any members of the alumni come this way they will be always welcome at our house.*' The de Lundens, complete with Brussels phone 
numbers  arc:  
Charles de Lunden,  '09  Pierre  de  Lunden,  *11  
148 Rue de  la  lo!  72 Aven de  TArmec  
Brussels, Belgium  Brussels,  Belgium  
Phone 34.88.73.  Phon: 33.11.85.  

Robert R. Shenk of Philadelphia, died in Novem­ber, the ALUMNUS has just learned. He was a native of Dclphos, Ohio. 
Mr. Shcnk was 61. He was a World War I vet­eran, and long an employee of Yale & Townc Man­ufacturing Co. Two brothers, Alex J., of Delphos, and Richard, of East Orange, N. J., sur\'ivc. 
WVndell T. I%illips of Milford, Mass., has been appointed to the Massachusetts State Board of .\rchilccts by Gov. Paul Devcr. (The information was supplied the ALUMNUS by Prof. Francis W. Kcr^'ick, who retired last June after 41 years at Notre Dame.) 
Mr. Phillips is the fifth Notre Dame architcctvire graduate named to state registration boards. 
Joseph B. Murphy, senior partner of the Dayton law firm of Murphy, Murpliy and Mayl died in his home after a heart attack. 
Mr. Murphy was vice-president of the Hospital Care Corp., former head of the Montgomcr\' Coun­ty (Ohio) Bar Association, and a member of Cal­vary Ccmeter>* Board. 
His wife and two nieces, Sister Miriam Thcrese, S.N.D., and Miss Kay Murphy of New York, >ur\'ive. 
1918 
From George Harbcrt: Harry M. Brady lives in Payne. Ohio. His occu­pation is looking after his farms and it sounds like a very pleasant occupation. Father Charles J. Williams, Litt.B.,. 1918, is the pastor of St. Malachy's Church in Rantoul, 111. This year he made a trip to Rome with the Apostleship of Prayer group of Fordham University. He sailed on June 26th and returned August 6th after visiting Ireland, England, France and Italy. If you are ever down around Rantoul, you can count on a grand welcome from Father Charles. 
Louis Hellert, LL.B., 1918. we finally dug Lou Hellcrt out of the class of forgotten men. Lou is 
Navy Secretary Matthews (center), with Paul Brumby and F. X. O'Brien in Tokyo. 
the manager and part owner of the Home Title and Abstract Company at McMinnville, Oregon. He lives at 4409 N. Willamette Blvd., Portland, and com­mutes to and from his work. Somewhere in the shufHe, his address got oft tnc aiiuum list as he writes that lie had not heard from any one for several years. Lou comes East occasionally and is beginning to feel his age as he tells us he is a grandfather and that his grandson is 2!4 years old. Looks like he wilt just about make the class ot 1970. 
Clyde Zoia, LL.B., 1918. It has been a long time since we heard from the rock of the 1918 football team, but Clyde Zoia is still in the rock business. He is one of the partners in the Zoia Monument Company of Woodstock, Ilinois. Clyde writes that he is still a football fan and ran into Vince Giblin who is now in Miami, Fla., as well as many others. Vince is doing all right for himself but from our correspondence, has lost his ability to write. 
Wc learn with deep sorrow of the death of Frauds 
T. McGrain, LL.B., 1918. Francis was born in Genev-a, New York, and graduated from DeSales High School, Geneva, before coming lo Notre Dame. After receiving his bachelor's degree in 1918, he scr\-ed as an ensign in the Naii-y during World War I. 
He practiced law in Rochester, New York, until 1930, when he moved to Syracuse, where he con-tined to practice until his death, which was occa­sioned by a heart attack. Funeral Mass was cele­
brated at St. Frands dc Sales Church on Noven^ber 
8th, 1930, and he was buried in St. Patrick's Ceme­
tery in Geneva. Francis was never married, and left 
no immediate family. 
Your Claa SecretaiT 
George E. Haibert 
106 N. Main Street 
Srcamore, Hfioob 

1920 
Having been deposed as Class Secretary but be­ing in receipt of notices of deadline, I am appar­ently still expected to offer contributions, so thoi^ht it best that I clear CQy desk of such items as have come to my attention. 
Members of the Class of 1920 will undoubtedly be saddened by the death of Graver Malooe who died in South Bend of a heart attack in December. He is survived by his wife, the former Louise Peterson, of South Bend, a brother, Henry of Peru, HI., tu'o sisters, Mrs. Charles Hoscher, of Peru, and Mrs. Albert Benscl, of LaSalle, 111. 
The long lost O. A. "Larry" Lanazolo has been located. He has i%Titten that although 254 Korbcr Building, Albuquerque, New Mexico, has been his headquarters for more than twenty years, he has spent the biggest part of the time on the West Coast of Mexico following his profession as petro­leum geologist. He says he does not have much money but has had a lot of fun. 
It is interesting to note that anoher member of the Class of 1920, Edward P. "Slip" Madigan, was on the c:ampu5 recently to visit his son who is a freshman. 
I had a recent visit with the son of Richard White, formerly known as *'Dog." Dog is in the oil machiner>* business in Los Angeles. His son, Dick, has not as yet been christened Dog, like all the other Whites who attended Notre DameZ 
A few weeks ago I had a nice visit with Gerald "Kid" Ashe. He provided the lunch for Gene Ken­nedy, Ed Asbe and Tom Ashe, as well as myself. 
I was also favored with a visit with the Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C, of our class, who is now Provincial of the Eeastem Province, with head­quarters in Albany, N. Y. The Father Peyton Fam­ily Rosar)' program is a project of- the Eastern Province and Father Connerton was here on the Coast in his official capacity as Provincial. 
In January I was fai-ored with an invitation to attend the testimonial dinner to Herb Jones and Bob Caldll in Dixon, Illinois. Lieut. Governor Sher­wood Dixoo w-as present and he like^-ise has a son at Notre Dame. Also at the testimonial dinner was Mrs. Al McGann, Jr., sister of the late Ellie Moore. She said that she had recently heard from M^r. Tom Tobin, of the Portland Diocese, and his expectations of visiting the campus were somewhat hampered by the many duties assigned to him. 
Texas Is Big and So Are Its Clubs 
15* ./ 

»^ / ^;< »f 
Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C., head of the University's Physics Department (fourth from left, front row) and membeis of the San An­tonio Club at the luncheon in Father Bolger's honor after he gave an address at Incarnate Word Acad­emy's Science Building in San Antonio. 
January-February, 1951 
1921 
Cl>-de A. WaUh of Campus, UK, died recently in Veterans* Hospital, Dwight, after an illness of two and one-half months. 
A real estate and insurance agent, Mr. \Valsh was also engaged as a banker. He was a veteran of World War I and member of Dwight Post 486, American Legion. 
His wife, the former Audrey Hill and two sons 
Robert and 'William, sunivc. 
1924 
Once again the Holy See has honored the class of '24. When the diocese of Dacca was made an arch­diocese, the Most Rev. LawTcnc-- L. Gniatr, C.S.C., ­^v-as cle^-atcd to the dignity of Archbishop of Dacca and Metropolitan of East Pakistan. .-Vrchbishop Graner, now in this country- soliciting funds for his large archdiocese, will shortly leave for Rome and thence to Dacca to receive the pallium, the insignia of an archbishop. 
The Re\'. Leo F. Flood, C.S.C., '24, last summer became the third president of King's College, Wilkcs-Barre, Pa., an institution conducted by the priests of the Eastern Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
The Rev. Joseph M. Rick, C.S.C.. '24, was chosen as prottncial superior of the Holy Cross Mission in Dacca, East Bengal, Pakistan, replacing the Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24, who has just finished 
two terms in the office. 
The Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C., '24, head of the Department of Physics at the TJniversit>', recent­ly delilvered the principal address ''Science and the Modem World" at the dedication of a new science hall at Incramate Word College of San Antonio, Texas, in the presence of His Eminence Francis Cardinal Spellman, Archbishop of New York. 
Class congratulations to R. Conroy Scoggins, whom the Board of Directors of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association has just recently elected as president of the Alumni Association. 
1923 
John M. Montague, western representative of the First 3 Markets Group, on Jan. 29 was named honorary- president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. His selection ser\'es as recognition of his leadership in club activities over a period of years during which he held \-arious elective offices and ser\'ed three terms on the board of directors. 
As a member of Rockne's track teams in the early twenties, John held the Indiana Slate and all-time Notre Dame records in the 440-yard dash and ran on the 440-yard, 880-yard, mile and two~ mile relay teams. 
Bill RoWig is a candidate for city commissioner in Cairo, 111.—the first alumnus to run for public office in that tou'n since its adoption of the com~ mission form of government a century ago. Results of the election will be in on April 17th, Bill reports. 
1925 
Henry Wuner, Notre Dame Foundation Gover­nor for Iowa, and president of Blackhawk Hotels Co., has been ^pointed by Commerce Secretary Saw>-er to the Small Business Adwsory Committee. 
Hank replaces Daniel J. O'Brien, president of the American Hotels Association, who had served 20 months on the committee. 
1926 
From Chicago, Class Secretary John Ryan vvrites: 
After this column appears, somewhere there will be a member of the Class of *26 who will say 
•That stinker, Ryan—^aftcr the way I worked to ^vrite up my life's history and then he drops it from the column." And he'll be right, if the un­easy feeling your secretary has is correct. As I have harped risht along I get those cards out usually with an awfully fast deadline but in the column I keep saying "If you just can't make the deadline send the material in anyway and it will be on hand for the next issue." 
And there were many times when I reached in the folder (within the folder) to draw out letters that t had been holding for several weeks. Now I can't locate the folder (u-ithtn the folder) and I feel positive that it contained a very interesting 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
CHARLES A. MOONEY 
"Chuck", A.B. cum Umde '26, is the new President of the Cleveland School Board. He was unanimously elected at the organization meeting of the Board in January. 
For the past two years, Charley has been Vice President. Originally ap­pointed in 1945, to fill a vacancy, he has been elected and re-elected in city wide polls to four-year terms. 
The Board administers one of the largest metropolitan school systems in the United States, comprising 155 ele­mentary and high schools with an enroll­ment of more than 100,000. It employs 
letter from SOMEONE. So, if you have \mttcn and your letter has not appeared ^VHOEVER you are. accept my apologies and send me the carbon copy. 
Before I got the letters together which I have received in the last few days, got out the type­writer, put the pad on the dining room table, got cigarettes and a large ash tray and otherwise pi«­pared to "one-iinger" this story I attended the usual Monday night Block Rtuary which a number of families in our apartment building hold. During the course of the prayers my attention wandered for a second to this job that was ahead of me. 
I'm glad it did for it gave me the chance to offer my rosary and ask silently that those of the others in the room be offered for our deceased members. One of the letters received this month named a few and I guess that is what brought the thought and the prayer. Before starting I got out the cards and there are 35 in the list of deceased. That included the most recent—Ted Ley of Akron, Ohio. That report has come along since the last issue of the ALUMNUS and your secretary has not had an opportunity to learn any details. ^Vill try to have them for the next issue. 
\Vhcn the class roster was given to your secre­tary some months ago he split it so that for each issue approximately 40 cards would go to members, requesting **dope** for the next issue. This time only 29 cards went out for those were the last on the list as it was divided. That means that every man in the class has been asked to send in his story of the past 25 years. There was one esccep-tion—Tony Roxas—whose name came up on the last list and Ryan's quick deadline was too quick except for cablegrams both directions. So, I inten­tionally held out Tony's card and will send him an airmail in the next few days and we'll look forA^-ard to seeing Tony's story in the March-April issue. 
more than 6300 persons and operates on an annual budget of more than $25,000­000. 
Early in his career on the Board, Charley distinguished himself by taking leadership in a program to make better community service use of school property and facilities, especially to provide bet­ter athletic and supervised recreational activities for childreiv He became the first Chairman of the Board's Athletic, Recreation and Community Center Activities Committee. 
Having to relinquish that post is probably the only regret he has in mov­ing up to the top spot. 
Since his graduation, Charley has ob­tained an LL.B. degree from Western Reserve University, Cleveland, but has not practiced law. He heads the Charles 
A. Mooney Insurance Service, an in­surance brokerage firm. Charley lives at 10912 Edgewater Drive, with his wife (Helen Byrider, New Rochelle '28) and two children, Carol, 18, and Charles, 16. 
Charley is also on the Board of Di­rectors of Radio Station WERE, Cleve­land, of which RAY T. MILLER, '13, is President and over which JOE BOLAND '27 broadcasts all Notre Dame football games. 
An oddity of his new position makes Charley a bigger restaurateur than his well-known fellow Cleveland alumnus Chuck Rohr. The Cleveland school system serves more than 30,000 lunches daily during the school term. 
Charley is also Vice President of this year's Silver Reunion Class of '26—the class composed entirely of child prodi­gies, its members claim. 
The March-April issue has been saved for "Who Will be THERE!" There will be no cards sent out but you fellows, will be getting some direct mail from our President, Ray Durst, and from ' your vice-presidents. Right now I'm giving the edi­tors of the ALUAINUS warning that we'll need lots of space for the column in the next issue. So, it's up to you to get the word in of your plans to return for our SILVER ANNIVERSARY and what classmates you expect to accompany you and what classmates from other directions you expect to see when you get back to school. 
Get out those "Domes" and start looking them over and send in the names. Also look well at the pictures, add some pounds, remove some hair in some cases, gray most hair in the remainder. And then mull over the suggestion that came in two letters this month—that we all wear badges (large' ones for us bifocal guys) so that we'll know each other. And I'll offer a small wager that with all of the changes that 25 years have brought there'll not be too many of us unrecognizable to the others.­
For the column in the next issue we also plan' to list the names of the 35 who will not be back for reunion, except in our prayers. 
Of the 29 cards that went out we received 9 replies and we start off mth Jim Bowen who uTote' from Indianapolis. Jim^ writes that after two years t in the life insurance field he .entered the laundry t bnsiness in 1928 and has bjin washing people's) dirty linen e\*er since. \ 
Jim is married and has three boyi and a 2V2-ycar old daughter. He says it keeps Mrs. Bowen busy at­tending the various PTA meetings. 
Jim saw Bad Baix in Chalmers, Ind., a couple of years ago and of course sees the Indianapolis gang regularly. Jim winds up by saying that if his wheel chair holds together he'll see us all in June. Jim, 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

twenty-five years is a long time liut we ain't ready for the wheel chairs yet. 
From New York Ken Cook wrttts on a Boy Scout letterhead: 
That after drying out the '^Master^s sheepskin" on that rainy Jmie day in 1926 he has put to work what he learned at N.D., in the Boy Scout field. That is with the exception of the years 1929­35 which he spent in Montreal and BufTalo in Catholic Charities and Catholic sodal work. 
Your secretary will say one thing for Ken, he practices the principles of Scouting. If I remember "A Scout is helpful." Ken certainly was, sending in hb story during Scout Week when everyone connected with Scouting, even in a minor way, has plenty of extra demands on his time, and Ken is National Director of the Scouts Catholic Relation­ships work as well as Executive Secretary of the Catholic Committee on Scouting. "Cooks Tours" have taken him into every state in the past fifteen years—and Alaska and Puerto Rico. 
He is very happy that 54 million of the 2% million Scouts are Catholic, due to the splendid cooperation of the Catholic priests and laymen. With all his travels Ken finds a happy home life wth his wife, Mary, and the four Cookies (2 boys and 2 girls). He meets N.D. men in all parts of the country and has frequent contacts with his old Boy Guidance classmates. Ken doesn't say so but we imagine he'll try to schedule a trip that will put him at N.D. in June. 
After reading George Dolmage's letter from ^fa-son City, Iowa, your secretary feels qualified to work behind any prescription counter. It has been said that a doctor's ability is in inverse ratio to Ms handwriting. We present Dr. Dolmage, physician of the top rank. Frankly, and honestly, George's letter ivas a dern sight easier to read than these notes are when they arri^-e in the printer's hands. After leaving N.D. George took graduate work at Iowa 
U. with the idea of teaching English, getting his 
M.A. there. He taught at N.D. for 2 years but decided that was not hb field. So he returned to the U. of Iou*a where he received his medical degree in 1937. FoIIomng V/3 years of intern work in Denver he returned to Buffalo Center, Iowa, to practice ^vith his father. Four years later George was an Army doctor. His description of the next 214 years is left to the imagination of the reader. Following Army scr\*ice came three years in the 
Eye Department at the U. of Minnesota Hospital which brought him to Mason City where he is an 
My Dear Ray: Some weeks ago, you graciously sent to me a copy of the Holy Father's blessing upon the Class of 1926. Unfortunately, sev­veral prolonged absences from the Univer­sity have kept me away irom my desk, and delayed, much too long, the proper, grateful acknowledgement of it. Now, let me congratulate you most hearti­ly, and extend to you and, through you, to the members of the Class of 1926, a most cordial invitation to attend the ugnificant Twenty-fifth Anni^-ersary on the Notre Dame campus on June 8, 9, 10. 
Other classes will obsen'e \'arying ing re­union anniversaries, but, to me, there is something very special dbout celebrating a Silver Jubilee that captures both the sun­slune and shadow of our alumni life. 
I hope you will find, as other ttwenty-five year classes ha\*e found, that the shadow is past and not future; that the years, by this time, will have dispelled the doubt, the dis­illusion, and the difficulties, and offer in the years ahead a mellower, richer realization of those things for which Notre Dame and its education primarily stand. ,, . „ — 
It will be a real pleasure and joy to see the entire Class of 1^6 here at Notre Dame. The IVesident's Luncheon for you on June 9 will be much more than a formality —^it is a privilege and a pleasure to whidh I shall look forward with- real anticipation. 
(Rev.) John J. Ca^-anaugh, CS. C 


SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
ROBERT S. LAMEY 

In the past year Bob has accumulated enough titles to take over half of the 1928 column which his class secretary Lou Buckley writes. 
He is president of the Evansville Downtown Quarterback Club, which calls itself "The Best Luncheon Club in the City of Evansville." 
He was named District Deputy of the Knights of Columbus after serving two terms as Grand Knight of the Evans­ville Council No. 565. He is also a mem­ber of the board of the Evansville Cath­olic Charities. 
The Tri-State Notre Dame Alumni Club (Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky) prints his name in the president's slot on its letterheads. 
He is a director of the Evansville Transportation Club and Traffic Repre­sentative for Meeks Motor Freight, operating out of Louisville and serving Cincinnati and Evansville. 
Mrs. Lamey is the former Mary Gertrude Veneman and they have three children: Martha, Timothy and Dennis. 
eye specialist. George was married at N.D. in *36 and has three children. George sees few classmates though he does report having seen John Grifi&i in Chicago (your secretary seems to have heard that that meeting went a much greater distance than the Xyo of them used to run). George may have overlooked it—what about the REUNION? 
From 149 Broadway, New York, Ed£e FaDoa makes a fine report. At least the letterhead shows that address but actually he dictated it at home where he was bedded down with a bad cold. Eddie starts out by going back to June, 1926 when six Brooklyn boys left N.D. Bill Reid, Jim Dwycr, Doc Gelson, Tom Burke, Eddie Byrne ''who wore bow ties before Sinatra ^'as bom" says Eddie,- and Ed­die Fallon. That's a fair sized crowd and if Eddie can get the other five lined up to return this Jose we*Il have a good start on a REUNION crowd. 
Eddie reports that Bill Reid is in Hartford, and that he sees him about once a year; Jim Dwycr is practising law in New York and now has a son at NJ>.;,Doc Gdna's second soa is at NJ)., the first one being in a Jesuit seminary; Tom BaAe is a lawyer and still looking for the ri^t giri; sad he has not seen Eddie Byiae for several years. 
Eddie had an interesting note about auto liceue plates. Several years ago N. Y. state Issued a license series **ND". Thinking "ND-26*' wonM look pretty good on his car he applied for that nnn^>er only to find that Leo Caatwdl had beaten him to it. Eddie's letter reads like he took the names fxoai the **Dome." I wish it could be prmted in full for he has hit more names of fellows that he has seen through the years than anyone your secretary has, heard from in a long time. 
As a matter of fact if we had an awrard "He who has seen the most classmates in 25 years," I believe Eddie would be the strongest contender. It's a shame to have to cut Eddie's letter but I am sure he got some happy moments nmnmg back through the years and recalling those fellows. Ever modest, of 554 p^es, only one short paragr^^ covers the story of Fallon. Eddie is married to a Spanish girl, from Barcelona, and they are the proud parents of Andrea, who is six years old thn month. Happy birthday, Andrea. 
He is still in the law book business with his father's old company and IS running two offices, one in New York and the second in Long bland where he now lives. He says he hopes to make the REUNION and I believe we can cotmt that "hope" as a certainty. We'll be watching for you, Eddie. 
It just goes to show even a lumberman shouldn't go too far out on a limb. Look at the nominatimi for Eddie FaOoa in the preceding paragraph and then what follows? A letter fn»n Notre Dame frcm Art Haley! Right away I've got an argument on my hands. Me and my big typewriter! Art's letter claims that he sees more '26 alumni than anyone— with the possible exception of BUI Dooley. Crawl out of that, Ryan. That's easy, I started the contest and I can make the rules aod I herd>y eliminate pros. This is strictly an amateur contest and FaUbn is stUl in there. 
Art claims your secretary had something to do with his start after graduation. I was the messen­ger who called him to Rock's office where he took over the duties he so ca^ubly filled for 14 years as Business Manager of Athletics. For the past 10 years Art has been Director for the Department of Pidilic Relations and the record speaks for the fine job he has done in that assignment. Of such fel­lows as Art Haley is Notre Dame made. Art has two sons at N.D., a daughter at Rosemont and <»ie son in Central Catholic H. S. at South Bend. With all of his work Art finds time to serve as preudent of the South Bend Council of Boy Scouts. Hell be waiting for us at REUNION time. 
Hal Kravser wrote from Marietta, OIuo, -where 
he H-as visiting as part of his duties as Field Engi­
neer for the Construction Bureau of the Ohio De­
partment of Highways. He covers about 30% of 
the state in his work. Since graduation, Hal has 
spent his time in the construction fidd, mostly 
highways. 
Hal has been married since '27 and has two daugh­
ters and one son. They make a trip to NJ>. each 
fatt and your secretary has had the pleasure (^ 
seeing "Ral on a couple of those trips. Ib l e^KCts 
to be back in Jtme to Join the select drcle of "Old 
Timers." 
The secretary to Lams G. LaMur, preudent of Lyon & Healy, Chicago, wrote to acknowledge my card, m his absence. Lou was with us for '22 to '24. Perh^M he'll have a chance to answrer the card when he returns to his office. Or maybe, since his office is right around the comer from mine I can get the story first-hand. 
From Charleroi, Pa., '^^nce That the years rince Jnne, *26, have all been spent with West Penh Po«rer Co. He has moved snccessfuOy from one ass^mnent to another and now is managu- of their Central Division with headquarters' at Charleroi. From the description of his duties "-ud responsiblities it looks like Vince n running .hii. own business ui an area from Pitts­burgh .t».the West Virginia line. 
lA^th,^iili' hb work l^nce has found time to be active; ui civic affairs wherever he was located and is pfoiiii|-of..two honors that have come to hhn: ManiiValley N.D. Man of 1950, and (here's the Boy 'Scouts again) the Silver Beaver from the Scouts. Congrats, Vince. 
Vince >vaited until 1938 to marry and now has two children, a boy and a girl. Vxnce Cipaao Is a classmate wh«n Vince sees often. He praomes (his word was "expects") to be back for REUNION. 
January'February, 1951 
Another PennsyK'aliiall writes from Morgan^ Pa.— Qem Sweeney says: that after leanng N.D. he got his M.S. in Mining Engineering at the University of Alabama. He followed this by worlting for J&L Steel in Aliquippa, Pa.; Bureau of Mines at Rolla, Mo.; G. E. at Schenectady, and since 1934 with 
U. S. Steel in the H. C. Frick Coke division. He is Assistant Mining Engineer. Clem has been married for 10 years and has two daughters. He is looking forward to REUNION time and asks especially that his old friend, Hal Krauser be there. 
That covers the story for this issue. Be on the lookout for letters from Ray Durst outlining RE­UNION plans. The dates JUNE 8. 9, 10—the year 1931—REMEMBER '26—PREP.\RE FOR '31. 
1927 

Most important item, which you will become ac­quainted with when ballots reach you through the mails from the Alumni Office, is the nomination of two slates for the first class officers we have elected since 1926. 
A nomination committee composed of Paul Butler, Herb Jones, Sebastian Bemcr, and your departing secretary worked out the two slates, with an eye to geographic distribution of the representatives on them. I use the word "departing" sccretarv- be­cause the man elected to that office will take over_ these duties, as I understand the intention of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association in setting up elections in all casses. 
Here are the slates: For President: LUTHER M. SW-^'GERT, Ham­mond, Ind. CLAYTON LERAUX, Cleveland, Ohio. For Vice-presidents: Eastern TED BERKERY, New York City. JACK HICOK, New York City. Mid-western BOB IRMIGER, Chicago. AL DOYLE, M"isha­waka, Ind. West Coast BERNARD ABBROTT, Oakland, Calif. ARNOLD PETERSCHMIDT, Portland, Ore. Southern LAWRENCE "Dink" HENNESSEY, Vicksburg, Miss. TOM GREENE, Conroe, Texas. For Secretary FRANK MORAN, South Bend, Ind. JOE GART­LAND, Boston, Mass. For Treasurer THOMAS F. BYRNE, Cleveland, Ohio. STE­PHEN RONAY, South Bend, Ind. 
By the time you read this, you will have cast your vole: this is to refresh your mind on the en­tire operation. 
Bud Dudley, Philaddpliia Club president, As^tant Coach Jolm Druze and John Lavin, winner of the club's Most Valuable Player Award. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
WILLIAM N. STEITZ 

William N. Steitz, '30, President of Sauer, Inc., recently announced that his company will celebrate its 75th An­niversary in 1951. For the occasion the company has produced a 40-page bro­chuer. 
Following his graduation from the 

By way of notes, Regis Ignatius Lavclle can be reached at the Duquesne Light Company, 435 Sixth Avenue, Pittsburgh. Regis has been faithful in call­ing mc whenever he's in town—but this last time, I found his card on my desk on my return. 
And, from Clarence Ruddy, comes an announce­ment that he has withdrawn from the present firm of Putnam, Johnson, Alschulcr & Ruddy to join Robert £. BrowTi in the new firm of Ruddy 8c Brow*n, for the general practice of law w*ith offices in the Aferchants National Bank Building, 104 Fox Street, Aurora, III. Happened Februar>- 1. 
In part, Clarence reports: "I see or hear from a classmate cvcrv' once in a while. When I was in Cleveland a feu* weeks ago I saw Jack Reidy who appears to be a succcsful lawyer in that vicinity. I see Jack Dailey in Burlington, Iowa, once in a while and run into some of the Chicago alumni at various times. 
The last classmate I have seen is Mansiel Hag­erty. I saw him in Indianapolis last week. He is trjing to convince all the States' Legislatures to abolish the death penalty and apparently is making a bit of headway." 
Tlianfcs, Clarence; antl, to all of you fine lads . . . thanks, too. 
1928 

I regret vcr>* much having to report the sudden deatli of Bob Knox on November 25 in London, England. He was en route to Rome on a Holy Year pilgrimage when he was taken ill. His death was caused by a hemorrhage of the pancreas. As you know. Bob suffered a head injury in 1&44 \vhilc serving as a Lieutenant aboard an ammunition ship that e.\pIoded ofT Newfoundland. He was in almost continuous pain from severe headaches and had looked forward to the Holy Year Pilgrimage and a trip to Lourdcs for some comfort, hah had been very active in his architectural practice in St. Joseph, Alicliigan, during the past five years and played a prominent part in the design and con­truction of new school and church buildings in southern Michigan. 
Besides his widow, he is survided by two daugh­ters, ages II and 5. and a three-year-old son. I have 
University, Mr. Steitz was elected Treas­urer of Sauer, Inc., mechanical con­tractors, and at the same time entered Carnegie Institute of Technology and the University of Pittsburgh for special courses in Engineering and Law. 
In 1937 he was elected President of Sauer, Inc. and in 1943 President of Sauer Company, Inc. of Columbus, Ohio, both positions being held at the present time. 
He is a lifelong resident of Pittsburgh and at the present time resides in Fox Chapel, a residential suburb of Pitts­burgh. 
In 1933 he married the former Edna Diebold, a graduate of New Eochelle College, and sister of -Al Diebold, '27. He has three children, William, Jr., who is attending Kiskiminetas Springs School, John attending Central Catholic Boys School and Edward attending St. Scholastica. 
Mr. Steitz is a member of the Pitts­burgh Field Club, Duquesne Club, Pitts­burgh Athletic Association, Chamber of Commerce and the Plumbing and Heat­ing Local and National Association. He is a director of Palestra Foundation, a Catholic organization sponsoring the erection of a public auditorium in Pittsburgh. 
extended the sympathy of tlic Class of 1928 to his widow . and his brothers, Harold and Vernon, of Crystal Lake, Illinois. Bob was buried in Springfield, Illinois, on December 4. Among the pallbearers were Don Fitzscrald, '27; Michael Kinnery, '31, and Howard Fhalen, '28. Howie Phalcn, by the way, had just returned from a Holy Year Pilrimage to Rome. 
Vcmon KDOX, '31, advised mc that his brother. Bob, had been ver>- much upset about the death of Jolm McMahon who was a very close friend of his. Bob, like John,- ivhose death I re­ported in the November-December ALUMNUS, was one of the most active members of the Class of 1928. Howie Fhalcn tells me he has a photo taken at our 20-year reunion of Bob, John and himself in group picture. Bob was one of the ''regulars" who came to Notre, J^ame each June for die-reunions. I recall that he brought together the '28 men who were back to Notre Dame a year before our 20­year reunion so we could make plans for our most sufxessful reunion. Bob wrote to the arf:hitects in the Class to promote their attendance at that re­union. He never failed me when I called upon him for news for this Column. 
The Class of 1928 lost a close and good friend in the death of Father James Gallagan, C.S.C. The poll of '28 jnen which I took prior to our 20-year reunion in which Father Gallagan was the over­whelming choice for celebrant of our Mass for de­ceased '28 men, indicated the high esteem in which he was held by our classmates. We will miss Father Gallagan, John McKfahon and Bob Knox at our 25-year reunion. I am sure you will remember them in your prayers. 
Joe Morrisiey, who probably sees more '28 men at the games than most of us, reports that he saw the following at games this year: Bill Murphy, John Fredericiu, Tom Byrne, Ed McSweeny, Jerry De-Qcrcq, John Igo, V^ce Walsh, Frank Connor, Frank McCarthy, Oscar Rust, Harry Haslcy and Art Canty. Joe said that he spotted Art Canty outside the stadium and he had a far away look in his eye since it was his first time back in 23 years. Art is now living in California and his cousin, Toai Ca&ty, is in the old home town, Batavia, New York. Joe remarks that Bolts Crowley had a bad weekend at the Purdue game since his wife and mother-in-law arc Purdue grads. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

The suggestion has been made by Denny Daly, Bill Murphy and £d Rafter that we make an arrangement for next year so that some spot will be designated in advance of the games where *28 men attending the games can get together. I think it is a good proposal and will appreciate hearing from you for ideas as to liow it can be done. 
I was pleased to hear tliat Cyp Sporl is coming along nicely after a gall bladder operation, which was followed by a blood clot in the lung which had given him quite a setback. Cyp mentioned that he appreciates deeply Father Thornton's having the Notre Dame student body remember htm in their prayers during his illness. Cyp reported that he saw- Christy Flannagan, Rube Morrison, and Pat Canoy at the Notre Dame-Tulane game. Cyp is president of C. A. Sporl & Co., Inc., insurance brokers and average adjusters, Whitney BIdg., in New Orleans. 
Andy Powers broke a long silence with a letter from Waukesha, Wis., where he is general sales manager of the Fox Head Brewing Co. Andy was in the water business in Waukesha until 1940. Fol­lowing that he lived in Pittsburgh, Atlanta, Florida, Omaha, Cleveland and New York, returning to Waukesha in 1945. Andy's present usual monthly itinerary' includes a week in New York, ten days in Chicago, and the remainder of the time in Mil­waukee. He sees Freddie Miller occasionally and Red Cavanaugh periodically. He ran into Ed Mc-Swccney in Cleveland recently. Ed has been with Sears-Roebuck in Chicago since he left school. Andy met Tom RoU on the Twentieth Century coming back from New York after the North Carolina game. He sees John Roach in New York almost every month and gets reports on the Buffalo gang from Eddie Bums whom he sees in the Lexington Hotel almost once a month. He keeps close tab on his old roommate, John Cullinan, who is now su­preme court judge in Bridgeport, Conn. 
.\rt Schcberle is with Detroit Edison in the piping department in Detroit. Art has a sister a mm and a brother a priest in the Holy Cross Order. I was sorr>' to hear of the death of Art's mother which occurred a few years ago. Art is quite active in the Third Order of St. Francis and is a member of the diocesan Catholic Committee on Scouting. Al has six daughters and is a former director of the Archdiocesan Holy Name Society of Detroit. J. R. Simonin is designer o( pulverized coal systems for Detroit Edison Co. He has three children. I was sorry* to hear that Virnx Sacc, assistant to the pur­chasing agent of Detroit Edison Co., was on the sick list with bronchial trouble at the University Hospital, Ann Arbor, Michigan, at the time Art wrote to me in December. 
Although Phil O'Connor did not give me any information on himself, he did come through with some interesting news on a number of the fellows. Phil hears from Bill Dwyer ivho is married and has three children. Bill is with Ra>'mond C. Hudson & .Associates at 205 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago. Phil also reports that Ed Tulty heads Marinag Inter­national, Inc., in New York. Ed Captained mer­chant ships-ducing-and. after.the.war carrying sup­plies and troops. Ed is married and has a daughter, age 3. Dr. Joe Sulli\'an, "Holyoke Joe," according to Phil, studied in Lyons and Berne and did spe­cial work in Vienna. During the war he rode the hospital ships and when it was over he collected his wife and children and returned to Puerto Rica. Phil mentioned that during the war he met Eddie Rafter in Iceland. Tommy Noon, who has been a Lt. Colonel in the Marine Air Corps since the 30*s is married and w'as raising a wonderful crop of boys the last time Phil heard from him. Phil receives a Christmas card regularly from Bob Ward who is keeping things legal out in Marshall, Michigan. Phil heard from John Carlin who, according to Phil, keeps Salina, Kansas, in gas. John wrote to Phil concerning happy days at the last reunion and happier ones at the next. Pliil mentioned that he and Marty Ryan have been planning to invade Ar­cade, N. Y., for some time to sec Frank Connors who is town clerk there. Phil added that they had best do it before the elder Connors fill up all the guest rooms with litlle Connors. 
John Larsen wrote from Geneva, N. Y. He and Joe DeBott arc the only '28 men there now. Joe, who is a bachelor, is manager of a men's clothing store. John is still in the Health Dept. of Geneva. John has one daughter, 8 years old. James Berry operates a farm near Stanley, N. Y. He has two sons and two daughters. Jim's oldest daughter is attending Nazareth College in Rochester, N. Y-John sees Bud Topping who lives in Rochester and has 3 children. Bud travels for Johns Manville Co., demonstrating transite sew*er pipe. Russell Collins stopped to sec John a few years ago. Russ, who is 
January-February, 1951 

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
RUSS McGRATH 

"My activities since leaving the Uni­versity in 1929 have centered largely around the little state of Rhode Island," RUSS McGrath wrote 1929 Class Sec­retary Don Plunkett when asked for the facts of his life. 
"Right now," he continues, "my prin­cipal activity is as President of the First Federal Savings and Loan Asso­ciation of Providence. 
"I had looked forward to attending the 20th reunion in 1949 but a last minute change in plans kept me from South Bend. I am looking forward to attending the 25th Reunion in 1954." 
When Russ mentions his "principal activity" he is guilty of slight under­statement. His directorships and other offices speak, as the lawyers say, the best testimony for themselves: 
•president. First Federal SaWngs & Loan Associa* 
tion of Providence. President, Phillips-Wickford Corporation. President, R. I. League of Savings, Building and 
Loan. Treasurer, James J. JfcGrath & Sons. Treasurer, Mcdway Really Co. Secretary', 0*Kecfe Motors,' Inc. Director, Plantations Bank of Rhode Island. Director, Providence Real Estate Board. Director, Harold Realty Co. Director, Ruth Realty Co. Director, Northeastern Federal Savings League. Director, Children's Friend and Service. Director, Executive's Club of Providence, Imme­
diate Past President. Member, Town Criers of Rhode Island. Member, Turks Head Club. Member, National Association Real Estate Boards. Member, National Association Insurance Agents. Member, Providence Chamber of Commerce. 
with the telephone company on Long Island, was on leave during the war teaching electronics at Duke University. Russ is married and has two children. 
The medics arc represented this month by Dr. Dave Solomon who writes from Johnstown, Pa. Dave is in his seventeenth year of practice, the first seven being general practice and the last ten in gynecology and obstetrics. He recently completed his specialty board requirements in Boston and Baltimore. Dave is married and has four children, 14 to 9 years of age, three boys and a girl. 
J. M. lasruK wrote Crom LotusviUc, Ky., wliere he is practicug architecture. He has a SCHI, a sapho­more at Notre Dame, who b studying architecture. The Ingrams recently purchased a 137-acre Kea­tucky farm which they are lookins forward to mov­ing to in the qiring. They have made all the football games during the past two.years. 
A note from Ed McConucfc from^ the Sfaeltoo Hotel in New York City indicated he had come to New York only recently to accept a.new poatiim as copy chief at one of the New York advertisii^ agencies. George Wagacr is now living in San Fran­cisco, Calif., where he is Field Representative, Of­fice of Housing E]q>editer. George's new address is 773 Post Street, San Francisco 9, Calif. Fanl Fahcr is bailiff for the Industrial Commission of Ohio in the workmen's compensation field. Paul's address is 167 E. Markinscm Ave., Columbus 7, Ohio. 
Viace Carmey stayed ovenught with us in Chicago recently. Vince remodeled his clothing store in Rf)chelle, 111., and had a house wanning there In December. He has six children, five girls and one«. boy. We enjoyed receiving a report of Vmce's re­cent trip to Europe. Vince advised me that Fud Fry of Dixon has a son at Notre Dame. Joka '*Red" Leahy, also of Dixon, has four children. 
I noticed in the "Congressional Record" for Nov. 27, 1950, that Bob Grant is registered under the lobbying act as a Washington representative of the Ethanol Committee, an industry committee repre­sented by various members of the pharmeceutical industry. Bob has been practicing law in South Bend since he left Congress two years ago. 
I was pleased to note that two '28 men BcnuiJ 
J. Bird and JoMph S. Morriaey were nominated for membership on the.Alumni Board of Directors. Bemie is Treasurer of the City of Buffalo and has also served 9S professor of criminology and sociology at Canisius College for the past ten years. He is married and has two children. Bemie is also a member of the Erie County (N. Y.) Children's Court Probation staff. Joe Morrtssey is manager of the King Mfg. Co. (textile b^^) in Cincinnati. He has four children. Joe received the Man of the Year Award in 19^ from the Cincinnati N. D. Club. Both Bemie and Joe have been very active in '28 class reunion work. It was also a pleasure to read where Bin Jooes, who is now a member of the Alumni Board, has been elected president of the University of Notiv Dame I^w Association. Bill, as you know, is an attorney in Washington, 
D. C. He Is married and has one child. Oiir classmate. Father Mark Fitzgerald* C.S.C., of Notre Dame, was a guest lecturer recently in my graduate class In Government and Business at Loyola University. Father spoke to my class on the Problem of National Organization and did his usual outstanding job. In addittion to my regular work as Regional Employment Security Representative for the U. S. Department of Labor* and professor at Loyola University, I am to give a series of lectures at Rosary College during the second semester on social insurance. A Christmas card from Frank Kdly fro;n Lee, Mass., carries the picture of his seven diUdren, four girls and three boys. I also had a Chrutmas letter from Art Gleasoa. I was pleased to hear that Art's wife is well on the way to recovery after hav­ing broken her neck last summer in a fall, I regret to have to report that my mother died on January 3, 1951, after a long illness. Please 
remember her in your prayers. Afortia Ryan \vrote from 45 W. Mohawk, Buffalo 
2, N. Y», and sent a newspaper clipping on the death of Bob Knox. Marty noted that our class must be hitting the troublesome forties %vhcn fel­lows like John KfcMabon and Bob Knox leave our midst. Their passing, commented Marty, leaves a space that won't be filled at our reunion. 
I wish to acknowledge the receipt of a contribu­tion from Marty Ryan to the Class of *28 Mass fund. This is the first contribution I have received since I mentioned in the May-June, 1950, .A,LUM­NUS that I would be pleased to arrange for Masses for 1928 men to be said by members of our class. As you know, three classmates, Joe Bcnda, John Mclkfahon and Bob Knox have been added to the list of twenty-three deceased classmates to which I referred in the May-June, 1950, column. I am asking Father Andy Mulraney, C.S.C., to say the first Mass as the result of Mart>**s ofTcring. When you send in your Mass offering, please remember to inclose some news for this column. My address is 4700 W. Adams St., Chicago 44, 111. Also rc­mcraber that the oflfer I made in the last issue of tlie ALUMNUS to send you a '28 class roster in exchange for some news for tliis column still stands. 
Bill Doolcy, Director of the Placement Bureau at Notre Dame, advised me that he had a placement interview with Bob Wildcman. He is the son of Qucntin Wildcman. Bob will finish at Notre Dame in August if the army doesn't get him first. Qucn­tin is treasurer of the ^Vhitcman Division, National Mine Service, Indiana, Pa. 
It is particularly gratifying, since this is my last column, to have had replies for inclusion in this issue from classmates representing Commerce, A.B., E.E., M.E., Phy-Ed., Architecture, Lau- and Medi­cine. TTic only ones missing were the civil and chemical engineers and they were well represented last month by Vic Fisher and Ron Rich. 
A visit to Mishairaka during the week-end of the meeting of the Alumni Board of Directors at Notre Dame gave me an opportunity to sec the two '28 members of the Board, Bill Jones and Joe Morrissey. Bill, who is serving his third year on the Board, was elected a \^ce-President of the Association. I was pleased to have the opportunity of congratulat-Joe Monissey on his recent election to the Board. Joe's son, Rock, who is a freshman at Notre Dame, under\**cnt an operation recently for a knee injury which he suflTeird as a member of the freshman football squad. 
The Alumni Office advised me that the results of . the class election conducted in December are as follov^-s: President, Loms F. Buckle>-; Regional Vice President for the East, Bernard J. Bird; for the West, Arthur L. Canty; for the Midwest, Thomas 
F. Byrne; for the South, James T- Canizaro; Secre­tary, Leo R. Mc&ityre; Treasurer, Bonard Garber. I trust you will give each class officer your whole­hearted cooperation in caniying out a class pro­gram. We will welcome your suggestions for class activities, 
I wish to express my gratitude to the hundreds 

of classmates who have responded to my requests for news for this column during the twcntv'-two years I hav% been privileged to serve as your class scwetary. I have sent out 256 cards requesting nev%-s during the last 254 years since our 20-year reunion. The task was much easier in the earlier years v*'hcn I was called upon to report engage­ments, marriages and births. The death notices I have had to give you recently made the reporting Very difiScult lately. I am sure you will give our new class Secretary, Leo Mclnt^re, the same ex­cellent cooperation you have given me for tlie past twcnty-t\*-o years. I envy Leo the opportunity he will have to report on children and grandchildren of classmates. Doc Forge is the only grandfather I have discovered thus far in the class. How about other grandfathers speaking up? Vou, no doubt, \rill be hearing from me concerning our 25-ycar reunion in June, 1953. And now, I reluctantly say farewell to the bi-monthly deadlines breathing down my nciJc. Leo Mdntyre has my best wishes for suc­cess in his new- job. Send him some news at once so he can get off to a good start in the next issue. His address is 30M Turner St., Allentown, Pa. 
A number of *28 men got together at a 1928 table at the Annual Election Banquet of the Notre Dame Club of Chic^o, ininduding Bill Ikfurphy, Ed Bren­nan, Ifoitic Fhalin, £d McKeown, Bill Armin, Jack Ri^ey, Dick Flidan, Bill Kearney and your Glass SecneCary- It " M a great night for the Class of 1928 as the Chicago Club took this occasion to honor the Past Presidents of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, two of whom were classmates. Bill Kearney who served as President in 1943 and Dick Fbdan who followed Bill as President in 1944. An­other classmate, Ed Brennan, was elected to join 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
JUDGE HAROLD STEINBACHER 

Second youngest Circuit Judge in the State of Michigan and a cum laude graduate of the University in 1930, Judge Steinbacher begged off sending the Alumnus any biographical material on grounds that his selection as a Spot­light Alumnus was "erroneous considera­tion." 
Accordingly, a factual listing of his achievements is listed, something which could be culled from the morgue of any Marshall or Battle Creek (Michigan) newspaper. 
Bom: South Haven, Mich., Sept. 26, 1907. Graduated, Notre Dame, cuvi Uiude, 1930. General practice of law, 1930-1950. Secretary-Treasurer, Calhoun County Bar Ass'n., 1932-33. Local Field Attorney, HOLC, 1935­45. Calhoun County Public Administrator, 1933-34. Special Prosecutor, Calhoun County, 1936. Prosecutor, Calhoun County, 1937-38. Chairman, State Local Labor Media­tion Board, 1941. Commissioner, City of Battle Creek, 1943-47. Vice-Mayor, Battle Creek, 1946-47. 
Circuit Judge, 37th Judicial Circuit of Michigan, 1949. by appointment of Gov. Williams. 
Elected to 6-year term November, 1950. Clubs: Knights of Columbus (former advocate); Elks, (life member, past ex­alted ruler, former trustee); Moose, Eagles, United Commercial Travelers, Optimists. Married, two daughters: Judy, 14 and Janet, 11. 
your Class Secretarj' as a member of the Board of Governors of the Chicago N. D. Club. 
Fatkr Aady Mulreany, C.S.C., advised me that he said a Mass for the deceased '28 men on Jan. 21 and' Jan. 26. He will say another Mass later as his contribution to our late classmates. He men­tioned that he sang a solemn requiem for Father Gallagan recently. Father Andy is going on his seventh year at St. Mary's Cathedral in Austin, Texas. 
Jack Lavdle, scout for the New York Giants football team, was the principal speaker at th* an­nual football dinner held by the Chesterton Club at Voungstown, Ohio. The Chesterton Club, an organization of Catholic men who are college grad­uates, has a high percentage of Notre Dame men, and Lavelle greeted a good many old friends, in­cluding Charles B. Cushwa, Jr., Jack Hagan, Gabe and John Moran, George Kelley, and others. His talk was a great success. Clarence T. "Pete" Shec­han, who arranged with I.avelle to speak, had to be out of town. 
1929 
Here are excerpts from some letters recently received: 
Tom Markey (Ass't. Counsel for Firestone Tire and Rubber Co., Akron) writes an interesting and newsy letter. 
**In the fall of '29 four of us from N.D. moved to Washington — Frank Connally, since deceased, Dick Novalc (who died in camp during World War II), and Bob Newbold, (my roommate in Badin and Sorin). 
"I had two years with the Federal Trade Com­mission and got a law degree from Georgetown in 1932. I then practiced law in Washington for five years with the late Everett Sanders, ex-sccretary to President Coolidge, and Chairman of the Republican National Committee. Since 1937 I have been As­sistant Counsel for the Firestone Tire & Rubber Company, at Akron. 
"I married a Maryland girl in the Log Chapel in 1937, and we ha\-e four dividends, Judy, 9; Joan, 7; Nancy, 5; and Patty Marie who is pushing one 
year. 
"Presently I am vice-president of the Akron No­tre Dame Club and chairman of our formal dance December 30. I am in frequent contact with other 29ere here: Clande Homing who is in the lumber business; Joe Kraker, real esute; Paul Bertidi, in the paper business; and Joe Wnmiak, attorney. 
"Last summer in Indianapolis I attended with my other Notre Dame roommate. Bill Krieg, the 25th reunion of our high school graduation class. Also there were Bill O'Connor and Bill Craig, and we all visited together at Krieg's later in the even­ing. 
"In recent weeks I have had the pleasxire of entertaining at our home Larry Moore, his mother and young Larry. 
'y«ently when I talked to Hank Bums from Buffalo I had to admit to him that I gave up tennis because they keep moving the backline so far from the net. I wonder if Ted GrifEn is still at it? I have resorted to hacking around the golf course at Portage Country Club and also wading with the small fry because I am on the swimming nool conmuttee. "^ 
"During the recent American Bar Association annual convention in Washington after the Notre Dame law luncheon I had a pleasant visit with Dean MaaioB, Judge Ambrose O'CooneU, Washing­ton Iaw>-er Bin Jooes, and other gold and bluers. 
1 missed seeing Betm'e Loshboa^ on thU trip to Washington smce he was in Connecticut on Gover­nor Bowles' staff. 
•„','/°S.*°" ""'' ^"" ' '"»** fo' «en Bob New-bold, To n Ryaa and Jack Elder. Understand Jack IS now m Cleveland; last I talked with him was the day he caught Chris Cagle's flat pass and beat ;tany. That warmed my heart but my feet were £U below zero, 
'T greatly regretted missing our 20 year class re­umon, but Firestone had so many anti-trust and otho-government problems that I had already post­poned my vacation several months and was in the east with the family when reunion time arrived. 
"I can think of many of my classmates whose letter! to 42 Ehndale Avenue, Akron, Ohio, would be very welcome. 
"Sign me ap for the 25th Reunion in '54." 
Ray Drnialski (Judge, Municipal Court of Chi­cago) sends a fine letter. 
". . . Prior to '43 I ser\*ed as an assistant state's attorney and later as an assistant U. S. District .\ttomey here in Chicago. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

"In April, '43 I was elected City Treasurer of Chicago. In January, *44, I enlisted as a Naval officer—spent four months in indoctrination and was then transferred to the Office of Strategic Services where I ser^'ed until 1 was released from active duty about November, '45. Our unit in OSS was trained as a top secret unit to take part in the invasion of Japan. 
"Returning to civilian life in November, *45, X resumed my position as City Treasurer until my term expired in April, 1947. 
"In November, '48, I was elected Judge for a 
term of sLx years. I have just completed two years 
of this term on the bench. 
"After my tenure ot ofBce expired (City Treas.) 
in 1947 I became associated with the outstanding 
legal firm of Crane, Kearney, Korzen and Phelan­
100 per cent Notre Dame alumni. Elmer Crane, 
'34; ^Vniiam P. Kearney, '28, as are Richard Ffac 
Ion and Bert Korzen. Kor7en is currently the attor­
ney for the election commission. 
"My tenure on the bench has brought me into 
contact with such eminent barristers as Francis 
(Spike) McAdams, '29: John Dorgan, '29; and AI 
Moore, '29. 
"Currently, I am a member of the Chicago 
Athletic Association, Chicago Bar Association. Amer­
ican Legion, director Catholic Charities of Chicago, 
and director Archdioccsan Boy Scouts. 
".-\mong my roommates at N.D. were Dave Saxon, 
'29 of Memphis, and C>-ril Anthony Jones, '29 of 
Allentown, Pa. 
"My family consists of my.wife, Alice, and three children: Ray, 14, a freshman at I^yola Academy, and a member of the basketball squad; Paul, 11, and Sue, 7 years. 
"Best regards to the *29ers and I'll see you all 
in '54 at the Reunion." 
John Res^er (Supt. and Engineer, Water Dept., Perth Amboy, Nc«' Jersey) brings us up to date on his activities. 
"In reply to >*oar letter I want to let yaxi know that the family now consists of my wife, Helen, and four children: John. 9; Mar>-, 5; Helen, 22 months, and Sheila, 7 months. 
"I am superintendent and engineer of the Perth Amboy City Water Works and kept very busy at that job. We have a ground water system, pumping plant, distribution system and all the office work to super\"ise. TIic plant is 9 miles out of town and I go there every afternoon. . . . We built a new home last year and that keeps me a little busy on week­ends. 
"I am a member of the K. of C . Holy Name Society*, Notre Dame Club of Central New Jersey, Perth Amboy Civil Defense Committee and some professional societies. 
"I was sorr>- to miss the reunion last year. I was in the mid-west the week before on business and thought I tvould stay over. ^Vhile there. Bill %ViIbur came down from Green Bay to sec me in Chicago and I went to Springfield, Ohio, to see Joe Dantremont. I thought I'd get to Green Bay to see Bill's wife, Genevieve, and the children but time ran out. Joe Dantremont and his wife, Judy, were wonderfully hospitable and their children arc grand. 
**I have read about some of the boys in the *29 column from time to time and they seem to be do­ing well but never do I sec or hear anything about George Jewett of Roswell. New Mexico. Does any­one know where he is? I'd certainly like to hear from him. 
"I will most certainly tr>- to make the 25th year reunion and am sorr>- now I did not wait over last year, but we moved into our new home the day before I left on the trip and I was anxious about my family and ncu' estate. 
"Remember me to Father Steiner if you run into him: I hope he is well and not working too hard. "Tliat is about all now, Don. Happy Christmas from all the Reagers." 
Hugh McManigal (Pros., Acme Construction Co., Kfiami, Fla.) writes: 
". . . Hazel and I went over to the Tulane ?amc in Neu- Orleans. There wc found Thomas F. (Mickey) McMahon as president of the Notre Dame Club of New Orleans and. in fact, the maitre d' for the Notre Dame activities during that weekend there. Mickey had arranged a vcr>' impressive rally for the evening before the game and a long list of luminaries and a large crowd A%-as there. The only '29 man I ran into there was Alfred W. (Tex or Sonny) Duperier. Tex and his beautiful wife, to­gether with Mickey McMahon and Bud Afiller, '30, and our wives all adjourned to the French Quarter after the rally and spent a good bit of thimc remi­niscing. Mickey has a very fine family headed by a son who is taller and much better looking than 
January-February, 1951 

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
RICHARD A. BLOOM 

Dick Bloom's career, set to the tune of calendars, sounds like the story of the man who found the spot he wanted and stayed there. 
Since 1930, the year of his graduation from the University, Dick has been with Oneida, Ltd., Oneida, N. Y. 
Oneida, Ltd. are silverware manu­facturers, and one of their products is Rogers Sterling. Until 1934 Dick was a "general office worker." For the years 1934-35 he was managfer of the Leased Silverware Department. 
In 1935 he began as a salesman and stayed until 1939. That year he was named sales manager of the Hollow­ware Division and in 1942 he became manager of War Production for the company. 
A year later he was elected to the board of directors and two years later— 1945—^he became director of sales for Oneida-Rogers and Sterling Division. 
On March 25, 1948 he was made a member of the executive committee and on March 31, 1949 was named to a vice-presidency. 
Dick is a Fourth Degree Knight of Columbus, the father of two sons: Robert, a freshman at the University, and Ronald. His wife is the former Gertrude Duggan. 
his daddy and who wilt matriculate at Xotre Dame come fall. 
*'The next football weekend was to see the Michi­gan State game. . . . The only '29 fellows I saw were Riiil Bartholometr and John Hinkd, both for very brief minutes in the crowded after-game condi­tions. However, we saw a very good game and en­joyed the company of ^ViUiam Patrick Byrne, *28, during same. 
"This l^Iichigan State weekend was rather brief for me and 1 didn't do much circulating as I was only in South Bend for the evening of Friday, the morning of Saturday being taken up to a great extent by a meeting with Fatkr Hdtargh and U 
"I bad a very lengthy and pleasant chat with Fatkcr U M Tkentiia and aomnpanied b!m in at­tendance at the Prendent's Luncheon the daf of the Midiigan Sute game. 
"The Navy game weekend in Cleveland was soae­
•Iwhat more fruitful ai far as '29 contacts are con­cerned. My torn, Hugh, who b enrolled in the da a of 1957, and I arrived in CSeveland in time for the rally Friday evening which was, as usual, large and weU attended. We met Nora McLcod, Kari Harto^ stei^ Bob Tratter, Gaybrd Baai, and Oetai Sckacsdcr. Naturally, at all of these affun there was a goodly sprinkling of other class representatives and dsstingaxihed people identified with Notre l>anie. 
"Hazel and I diifa't get out to the Sontbem California game as we had planned. We had aD our reservations, in fact bad the air line tickets bought, but the very real press of business here forced me to cancel these arrangements and the reporting of such a trip will have to go to another year. 
"The local alumni group has been very faithful in continoing the annual CommunHin Sunday and George Braatigaa and Jeny Oodlette and myself were the '29 representatives with our families. George gave a very fine talk after breakfast on Catholic Action. Don, this has been a good bit more lengthy than 1 thought it would be. . . . 
"With very best regards to you and all my friends and classmates." Dr. FUfip C. Hewnmig (Obstetrician and Gynee­cologist. Walker Clinic, Eugene, Oregon, writes; 
"Where is Bob Lane? Wasn't he teaching out on the coast here? We moved to Oregon last November to become associated with the Walker Clinic where I'm doing the obstetrics and Gynecoligic surgery. Took my American Board of Ob-Gyne a year ago 
. last May in Chicago. This seems to be a very vital, rugged country with scenery on a magnificent scale. There is qpportimity for development since the re­sources have never been exploited to any great extent. We miss our friends from Elgin a ^ Chi­cago but we're slowly making new ones. 
"I haven't met anyone from N.D. here. Do you know of N.D. graduates in the Eugene-SpringfieM area? This seems to l>e an outpost of N.D. activity. 
"I ^vas happy to read af>out Joha SoUivaa in a recent issue of the ALUMNUS. Incidentally, you mentioned John wanted to hear from some of our Pre-Mcd gang. I happen to know John Sinmoaes is doing ear, nose and throat at LaCrosse, Wis. I stf^ped in to see him last siuiuner but he was fishing somewhere in Wisconsin. Art BAoriey is past president of the Kane County Medical Society. He's in practice at Batavia, III. Art Flemins is a pediatrician at Mercy Hospital in Chicago. He interned there the year I did. Jim Tofan is with his brother, Paul, at Elgin. Jim does larcgly urology and Paul practices general surgery. .. . 
[ Secretary's Note: Dr. nSEp received bis MJ) . in 1934 at Rush, U. of Cliicago, and interned at Mercy Hospital in Chicago. He is active in Oregon Sute Obste. and Gynecology Soc., Lane County Medical Sodcty, Sute and A.M.A., Elks, K. of C , N.D. activities and Sacred Heart Hospital saff. 
His major interests are obstetrics and has done reesearch on pre-menstrual tension; also, has in­structed at Loyola U. Medical School in Chicago.] 
The Hemmings (Phil and Janet) have a fine family of three children, Anne, Phib'p, Jr., and Larry, and vacation on the Oregon coast and Cas­cade Range. Phil's hobbies are gardening and golf and he'd like to hear from Bud Kane and GcMgc McDoaaell as he plans to attend the reimion in 1954. The Henunings can be reached at 399 E. 10th St., Eugene, Oregon. 
Tom McDoogal (Judge—Antigo, Wis.) vnita: "It took the NJ>. ALUMNUS to remind me that at one time I attended Notre Dame, f have .had such a busy Calendar this year. I greatly enjoy our '29 column. . . . "It is 20° below today and I'm thankful Just to sit and take it easy. I hope you and your family had a fine Christmas. God's blessing on all of you for a happy 1951. I received a card from my cousin, Ker. Leo Goemaa, '30, who is at King's College in Pennsylvania. He is a great priest. Received a card from Jndge Steiabadier, '30. . . . '*Witb personal regards to all 29ers and niy best vishes to you, Deveie, '30, and your families." taai Holakaa (Staff Engineer, Ohio Bell Tele­phone, Cleveland) writes on his activities: ".. . As for my work, I have t>een with the Ohio Bell Telephone Co. since graduation. Started in the Accotmting Department, hanng majored in accounting and remained there on various assign­
29 
ments until the Fall of 19*4 when I transferred lo the rate section of the Executive Department. Am knoun as Operating Staff Engineer—Exchange-- . . 
" I \*-as married to Dolores Winkel in 1945 and wc ha\-c two strapping boys. Danny is 3 years and Mark is 7 months. 
"As for club actiWiics. I am raihcr inactive. . . . I sec Tom Byrne (also with Ohio Bell) Tom Kiener (Klcner Col Co.) and Jim Uprichard (Ohio Brll Telephone) frequently. 
**. . . Was glad to read about Joe Smictanka and Ray Dr>-maUld in the latest issue of the .\LUM­
XCS. They roomed across the hall in Freshman. I roomed there with Bud Clark, now of Lexington. Ky.. Russ Trelcncn of Rhinelander. ^^"ls,. and the late Bob Mannlx (the cheer leader) of Greeni-JIIe. Ohio. 
**Louis Kundert and wife. Betty, of Delphos. Ohio, joined us for the Xa\y game, ^\'e had a s^vcll \isit and wc are looking for^^ard to their return for the ne.xt Xaxy game. The Kundert's have 2 children. Tommy and Jane. 
"Don. I guess this just about covers it. Be?i regards and a Happy New Vear.'* 
Father James Gibbons^ C.S.C.. iPerm. Chairman of the Texas K. of C . Historical Commission. .Austin, Texas) writes these news items and sum­marizes his work. 

"Rcspectinc Texas membership of the N.D-'29 Class, there is no news for there are to my knowl­edge no '29 members in central Texas. I am the only C.S.C. priest of the '29 class in Texas. 
*'Tic Ret*. Christopher OTooIe taught Philo>o­phy here in '35-"34-. the year before I came here to St. Edward's- He is now. 2LS you know, the Superior General of the Congregation. The Re\-. James Norton is on the ProWncial Council and Mce President at Notre Dame. Re\-. Ted Mehling. another '29 class member was elected ProWncial last July. Rev. Bernard McAvoy is Superior at Moreau Seminary and Re\*. John Harrington is in charge of the Seminary in Dacca. Bengal. India. The Rev. Joseph Voorde and Rew Charles Young are two others of the '29 class \\ho are serving Christ in Bengal. 
"Now about my own doings since '29—ordained in '33, returned to Catholic U. to study for an ^^„\.. came to St. Ed's in "34 and have served in almost every capacit>- here—principal, prefect of Relicion. head of the HIstor>' Dept.. dean of the .\.B. School. librarian, prefect of discipline, commandant of cadets and nrincipal during World War U. I have taught Enclish. Latin, all the history courses. Religion. Moral Ethics. Psvxhologv- and Sociology-. L'pon the death of the Rev. Paul Foik. aS.C - March 1. 1941. I was assigned by the Superior General to succeed him as Permanent Chairman of the Texas Knights of Colxmibus HL*­torical Commission and editor of the work spon­sored by the Texa< State Council. "Our Catholic Heritage in Te.\a«." The sixth \-oIume L> to be released in the early fall and the composition of the se\-enth is scheduled to be completed by the first of the year, arcordinc to the author. Carlo? 
E. Castaneda. Ph.D.. LL.D.. K.H-S.. Professor of History on the faculty of the L'niversitv of Texas. The seven tomes co\-er the histor>' of Texas from 1510 to the present time. Castaneda is the Bolioa of Texas hisior*.*. His research w^Il ne\cr be done again and challenges successfully many statements erroneously made as facts by other historians."* 
Dr. Frank Paul Kan= (Surgery. Binghamioa. N. V.) sends this note: 
'"Ted Griffin, "29. still continues his tennis and won the city title this pa<t summer. E\lrnd my best wishes to Art Morle>'. Walt MacFarland, -Art Flcmmg. Jim Tobin, Phil Hemming and Dr. Kac­marek •'retired}.'* 
ST.ATISTICAL DEPARTMENT Basil Raudi (Prof, of History. Barnard College. 

N. Y. 27. N. Y.). Educator and historian: A.B. at Notre Dame. 1929: student of drana and Enclish at Yale. 1929-33: Ph-D. at Columbia. 1946. 1931-40 taught ai private schools. Lecturer in history for Columbia L'nrx^ersitv- Exten-ion School. 1940-41. In­structor in history at Barnard College. 1941-43: assistant professor, 1946-49: associate professor. 194? to date. Lt.. L*5NR. taught at .AnnapoIL=. 
Books: "Historv- of the New Deal." 1944: ".Amer­ican Interests in Cub." 1947: *"Roose\e!t—From Munidi to Pearl Harbor." 1949. 
Home: Pike's Falls, Jamaica. Vermont. 

.Address: Department of Historv-. Barnard College. New York Cit>- 27. New York, 
Joseph Whalcn is general manager. Hotel Sa\-er>-. I>es Moines, lou-a. \\"orkcd at Hotel LaSalle in 
30 

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
COL. a D. JOXES 

C. D. Jones graduated in 1932 from the University, at the age of 20. Three years later—in the peacetime Air Corps —he had a set of pilot's wings and a pair of brass bars •which entitled him to fiy anj-thing the Army owned and to return salutes from enlisted men. 
South Bend ^vhilc aticndins the Cnivmity and has been in the hold business continually since; and owTts and operates a 220 acre farm 25 miles from De^ Moines. Joe is on the Beard of Directors of Dei Moines Safety Council. Des Moines Convention Bureau, Better Business Bureau of Des Moines, and Des Moines Enterprises, and active in Chamber of Commerce. Iowa Hotel .Association. .American Hotel .A>sociation and Iowa Farm Bureau. Knights of Columbus—ith Decree. Elk's Club. W'akonda Club, Xotrc Dame Club of Des Moines. Joe and Ruth have t\vo daughters. Sue, 18. who entered St. Mary's College of Notre Dame in September. 1950. and Joan. 14. student at St. Joseph's .Academy. Des Moines. Iowa. 
1929 
Durinc the last week in December your secrctar>­attended the .A.A.AS (Sdence Meetings) in Cleveland and had the pleasure of seeing and talking ^%•ith a number of 29ers. Jack Elder, (Pres. of the Cleve­land .Alumni Club and Mcr. of Sinclair Oil). Karl Manrrsteck J.Ass'i. Div, Mcr of Great Lakes Dredge and BcKk). Gene MillifF (Ohio Bell Radio & Toll Engineeri. Fr. Ote>- \\"inchcster (St. Luke's of Lake­\*cx»d. O.;. Tom KeEnsr (Keinrr Coal) and Paul Holohan t'Rare Engineer. Ohio Bell). 
Your secretary- called Rccco Pcrone and Chas. Wolfram bat didn't find them in-
The CIe\-eland .Alumni Club entertained the ND ?:3Ji^ attending .AAAS at a luncheon at Chuck Rohr's i *30i Restaurant and it \*-as an enjoyable aifair. Tlie Cleveland .Alumni Group is to be com­plimented on it> acti\-it>-. vigor and programs. .At­tendinc the luncheon were: Ward Leahy, '26; Tom BxTne.' '23: Crwsit MiUcr, '44: Tom Miller, -43; Bill Griffy, John B;>-crfcy, '44: Jim CDllcrson, '35; George Kervtr. '22: Frwl Nacele, *4S: Bro. Luke Clement. Jack Doyle, -~6i Fr. Sc**-ard, '34; Ed Kil-Icen, '33. and Hurfi Ball, "32. 
Clet Schneider reports that their fifth son 'Paul'i arri\-ed in September and from all appear­ances uill he the ND fullback in '69. -Also that Fred Wagner t'lnszirancc—Timn. O.) and Jim Frcil v'Pharmocrof:—N"^') \ver* up for the Na w game and that Father Oiey Winchester and John Colangelo xven? coaSned in Merc>- Hospital ^^•ith ailments that lucHly permitted them to miss the do^vnpour. 
Nobody calls the colonel by his given name—nobody in he' Alumni Associa­tion, that is. He is simply CD, and if anyone wants to get technical and go to the record the initials stand for Charles Duncan. 
Right now he commands the largest training base the Air Force owns— Sheppard Field, Texas—^but back of the ribbons and that command pilot's badge is a story that has to be dug from Army files. CD was twice wounded in flight over the European Theater, and so the second try he became a prisoner of war and stayed that way for a year. 
His first Purple Heart was earned in 1943, and he became a war prisoner when his Flying Fortress was shot down over Italy the next year. 

Besides the Purple Hearts, CD owns a Silver Star, the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Legion of Merit and quite a little salad from the French and Mo­roccan Governments. 
CD is a graduate of both the Command and General Staff School at Fort Leaven­worth, Kan. and the Air War College at Maxwell Field, Alabama. He was named executive officer of Sheppard Air Base in April, 1949 and Commanding Officer in November, 19-50. 
CIct recently ^ad a fine letter from Louis Schneid­er (Ncus Editor—Baltic Creek. Mich., "Enquircr-Neus") who is in good health, has a son at Michi­gan on a scholarship. John Colangelo and I had a nice \-isil. He recently had a rough time at Merc>­Hospital with a gangrenous appendix but is now-feeling better. He is a construction engineer \Wth Lombardo Brothers of Cleveland, who do lots of work for the Ohio State Highway Department. The Colangelos have a new home at 4901 Broadview and report a Christmas greciJnc from LarT>' \Vingerter, '28 (San .Antonio Transit Co.). 
Kari Marsterstecfc sends greetings to the class. Hc*s in fine health and besides his work with Great Lakes is vrr>* active in all Notre Dame activities, to say nothing of the Lay Legion, Catholic .Action, Catholic Book Store and the Serra Club. He and Moura live at 19355 Molvcrn .Ave.. Rocky River, and have a fine family—Karl, 13 and .Ann, 10. 
From MilliiT: 

"Magdalene (Raedcr) and I have two youngsters —Marilyn, 9 and Jimmy. 6. They attend St. Chris­topher's and »ve live at 21324 Moreuood Park»*ay, Rocky River. Hobbies arc photography, woodwork­ing, model railroading, model shipwnrk: send my greetings to Larr>- Staudcr, Fred Wcise, Charlie Sdiutty, Pat 0'Lcar>- and Jim Yates. 
**Tom Keincr recently moved to a new place, just across the street. He's now a successful coal dealer and iie and wife Jane have four children. Incidental items: Cla\t Leroux (*27) is ass't per­sonnel manager of Monarch .Aluminum and he and Margaretc have a lovely home in Cleveland Heights with three children in it. Charlie Kaiser, '28. is with the Lakewood Coal Co. and he and Martha also have three yonngster^." 
If it's not too late, your secretary would like to list here the cards received over Christmas, and let >"ou know who sent them: 
Guy Haas—Army Signal Corps. Washington. D. C. Dr. John Sulli\-an—Surgwn—Park .Ave. NYC. Mum y GIa$go%*—Glx^gow Brewery. Norfolk, Va. Paul Bartbolomcw, Department of Politics. ND. Eari Leach, Grand Rapids. Mich. Fr. James Norton—^NHce-Pres.. ND, Fr. John Mollcr—Zoolog>-. U. of Portland. Bill Crotl>'—Pres., .Automotive Corp.. Quincv, 

Midi. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Lsuny Stauder—Dcpt. E. Engr., ND. Fr. Louis Thornton—Registrar, ND. Bob McVely^-Safctv Director, Remington-Rand, 
NY. Mickey McMabon—Amcr. Ins., N'. Or[eans. Joe Bamett—Insurance. Ogdcnsburg, NY. Hughic McManigal—^Acme Construction, Miami. Fr. Bernard McA\'oy—Moreau Superior, ND. Frank Smola—^Nat. Dair\- Council, Chicago. Fr. Christopher OTooIe—Superior Gen'l, ND. Louis Neizer—^Attorney, Ft. Wayne. John Nash—Nash Construction, Chicago. Francis Jones—^Attorney, So. Bend. Joe Mulhall—Mulhall Lumber, Owosso, Mich. Fr. Theodore Mdiling—Provincial, ND. John Law—Mt. St. Mar>-'s, Md. Joe Nash—TV, Chicago. Frank Belting—Superior Metal Prod., Mpls. Harold Steinbacher—Circuit Judge, Battle Creek. SyK-ester (Doc) Dougherty—^Weirton Steel. Vincc Carney—RochcUe, 111. Frank Aheam—^Travelers Ins., Hartford. Wm. Cronin—Frigidairc, Oakland, Calif. Jim Curry—Real Estate, Long Island. Joe Laubeiw^hect Metal, So. Bend. Ed Krick—H. L. Green Co., St. Paul. Dr. Geo. McDonnell—Physician, Freehold, X. J. Russ McGrath—Real Estate, Providence, R. I. Ed Baum—Insurance, Battle Creek. Tony DeDorio—.Attorney, Elkhart. Bill Kreig—^Attorney, Indianapolis. Emmett McCabe—Vultce, San Diego. Joe Angelino—Real Estate, Buffalo. Joe Doutremount—Construction, Springfield, O. Norm Hartzer^-O'Brien Co., Los Angeles. John Meagher—Construction, Bay City. Larry Moore—^Navy, Washington, D. C. Jchn Dorgan—^Attorney, Chicago. Clyde Atchinson—Steel, Kansas City. Paul Bertsch—Rohner Paper Co., Akron. Jim Gallagher—Business Mgr., Chicago Cubs. Jim Digan—Digan Corp., Logansport. Ed Ganrity—Plumbing. Chicago. Bill Neff—School Sup't., Mandan, N. Dak. Joe Freil—Seagram's, NY. Jim Brady—KIFI, Los .\ngeles. Fmnk Hurley—^Aluminum, NY. Joe Smietanka—Attorney, Chicago. Jim Nowery—Oil, Shrevcport, La. Leo SchroU—Bradley U., Peoria. Bill Byrne—Phy. Ed., Frisco Schools. Dr. Ed PfMt—^Necrologist, Camp Custer. Joe Lenihan—Liquors, NY. Geo. Brautigam—^Attorney, Miami. Hank Bum*—Paper Boxes, NY. Ste\'e Schndder—Fed. Security, Tucson. John F. P. Burke—Dept. Education, Clinton, Mass. Bill Sodenfoden—Cas Co., Ontario, Calif. Geo. Monroe—Autos, Freeport, III. Lou Regan—Sears Mail Order, Mpls. Sam Colorusso—Attorney, Newark, X. J. John B. Sullivan—Director of Education, N. Y. 
State. Fr. Henry Altman—St. Raphael's Glasgow, Mont. Dr. Corrin Hodgson—^Mayo Bros. Tom C. Murphy—Probate Judge, Detroit. Frank Sloan—Tax Accountant, Pontiac, Mtch. Charley Colton—Hospital, Taunton, Mass. j€>e Radigan—^Attorney. Rutland, Vt. Dr. Art Fleming—Pediatrist, Chicago. Bob Newbold—U. S. Marshal, Indianapolis. Joe H'halen—Dcs Moines. Norb Berghoff—Hoff Brau, Fort Wayne. Gus Dieter—Construction, Memphis. Dave Campbell—English Dep't., XD. Dr. Phil Hemming—OB. Eugene, Oregon. Dr. Charles Baum—Dentistry, Hamilton, O. Don Schettig—Hardward, Ebensberg, Pa. Dr. Paul Kane—Surgery. N^. Bob Broeckel—Architect, Joplin, Mo. Paul Clark—Drugs, Lexington, Ky. Dr. Ed Lyons—Dentistr>-, Phila. Ed Doll—Electric Products, Cincinnati. Bill Biser—GE, Buffalo. Pete Morgan—^Track Coach, Princeton. 
Don Plimkett, '29 secretary, has been re­covering from a serious illness. His secretarial duties, including this colunui, have been tak­en over temporarily by Larry Staudcr. '29ers_ arc requested to address class communications to Larry until Don u back in the lineup.— Editor. 

January-February, 1951 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
JAMES A. MAROHN, B. C. S., '35 

Native South Bender. Seen frequently around the area during years at South Bend High and Notre Dame playing piano and piano accordion in local dance bands. Wrote N. D. Junior Prom and Senior Ball songs for class of '35. 
Made that famous 13 week tour in 1933 vrith N. D. Glee Club on E. K. O. and Loew circuit. Received B. C. S. de­gree—accounting major. Was secretary to Prof. Chizek. 
After graduation abandoned music for business—^^vent with C. P. A. firm of Ernst & Ernst in their Pittsburgh oflice and subsequently received Pennsylvania 
C. P. A. degree. Joined Noma Electric Corporation, New York, as Controller and Assistant Treasurer in May, 1946. 
Elected Treasurer in April, 1949 and Vice President and Treasurer in Nov­ember, 1950. 
Member Pennsylvania Institute of C. 

P. A.'s, American Institute of Account­ants and Controllers Institute of Amer­ica. 
Married Gloria Kaye Schaefer of Pittsburgh in 1938. Two sons—Jim, Jr., 11, Billy, 8. Home is at 379 Winthrop Road, West Englewood, New Jersey." 
1930 
I don't know "hen tliis ALUMNUS will reach you fellows, but John Bums, the slave-driver on this publication, is making us beat out these columns in mid-February. 
This would be a good spot to do a review on the winter's weather, but anythin'? I would claim for South Bend most of you could top by several more inches of snow and many degrees of sub-zero stuff. Especially if you live in the Cleveland-Pittsburgh belt. I suppose Jerry Holland down in Miami, and Lou Bcrardi and George O'Malley in southern Cali­fornia, are pretty smug about the whole winter's proceedings. 
This is a dull season ot the year around the N D campus. The new semester has just opened, and the profs have outlined a nifty 6 months of school work to be covered in the 4 months ahead. 
Into this rather gloomy atmosphere steeped oae JiaMT Navarre today. Jim, attired like the Maa of Distinction, reported things were good with Na­varre Brothers, beer distributors in Monroe aad Adrian, Michigan. Visiting the campus with hi a was his brother, Joe Nanne, who gradoaled ia 1926, Uught English here in 1927, and tlien went oa to law sdiool at the Umversity of Michigas. Jim has a ilaugfater who is a college freshman at Coral Gables, Florida. 
On December 13 last we had the annual testi­monial banquet for the 1950 football team. This affair is sponsored each year by the local ahtmai club, and your secretary was chairman of the event this winter. It was a real pleasure to work with such assistants as Fiaa Moncfc and Ilk ITnlfi of our class, and other alunmi like ffnd Boehm, Joki Floi^, and my brother, Doa. These fellows took over portions of the banquet arrange­ments, and on the evening of the 13th they had everything meshing perfectly. 
Mel Allen, the sportscaster, was. a smooth MC. Talks were given by TCRT Brcaaaa, coach of the Chicago champion Mt. Carmel High School team; Stu Holcomb of Purdue; Ralph Young of Miditgaa Sute; Bud Wnkinsoa of Oklahoma; Mayoc Geaege SdM>cfc. Ed KraaK. Fraak Leaky, and Father Jota Cavaaaogk, C.S.C. No doidit you all saw Father Cavanaugh's address, as it was reported fully over the press of the country. 
Fiaa Mesacfc, treasurer of the American Trust Company in South Bend, served this year as gea­eral chairman of the March of Dimes program m this area. Fran does such a bang-up job on all such dvic drives that he is constantly in demand. 
The' Veraoa "Bock" Slack family moved into their new home this winter. Buck cased the enviroas of South Bend pretty well, and then chose a house over in Harter Heights. You may recall that is the section close to the ND golf course. I think Emily Slack is wise to the whole business, but she is let­ting Buck think he put over a pretty smooth deal. 
Walt Langford has taken over again the coadiiag of the ND fencing team. Heib Mdtaa, former coach who had succeeded Walt, is now in private law practice. Walt continues with his other heavy duties as Head of the department of Modem Lan­guages and varsity tennis coach. That is a lot of work and responsibility even for a Texan. 
Had a nice note from Mrs. Fraack X. Walker shortly after our deadline for the last .\LUMNUS. Jane Walker wrote: 
"Just a note to give you the latest on Francis 
X. Walker, class of '30. Since the war he is back with the Department of Justice as an attorney in the Criminal Division. 
"The latest news and the reason for this letter is the announcement of the birth of a daughter oa the first of August at 7:10 p. m. The child was named Jane Anastasia and weighed in at 5 lbs, 15 oa. 
"Frank was married to Jane Hooker, University of Illinois, class of 1941, on Dccmber 4, 1948, in Washington, D. C. 
"That's enough for now. I thought perhaps you'd enjoy hearing of Frank, if not from him." 
Thank you, Mrs. Walker, for message, and hearti­est congratulations to you and Frank. Please write again and send any ND news that you pick up around the capital. 
Which reminds me, it's about time that Mrs. Jim Leahy of Tiffin, Ohio, sent in her news re­port on ND doings in Ohio. I am building up a staff of women reporteis over the country. The male members of this class are slow in sending in news, and the time may come when I have to wedge their news in between recipes, Dextro-maltose ads and home permanents. 
We had over two hundred graduate) in the Mid­year Commencement, January 28. Father J. C. Murray, Jesuit theologian and editor of "Theologi­cal Studies," gave one of the finest commencement addresses I have heard in 20 years of parading in cap and gown. I think it is appearing in this issue of the ALUMNUS. Don't miss reading it. Then, you might recall this passage of a speech twenty years ago: 
". . . We caaaot Sfjuir hni h aside the views of the eaemiei of democracy—cnamnaists aad oihcr sahvenive foRxs. They bdierc. l a aa age of skepti­cism, they have ao Joatu. They sactilce. They are eager to go ap agaiart the gnat. They are iateaare-They are tireless. They are jggicjMie. Tk y are a meaace hecanie they are a tiagiag challfage. Aad 
31 
if we are to meet this challrnge, wc must rekindle ia oandvcs the spirit of the fathers, and with something of their eDergr* asnduity, and fcr\-or, go forth like warriors of a faith and battle for the prcservatioQ of our own. 
—Claude G. Bowers (present Ambassador to Chile} 
ND Commencement Address, Tune I, 1930. 
It was good to hear again Irom Tim Toome>". 
His letter just missed the last deadline. H m writes: 
**Your first column following the reunion was a 
bang-up job, and I hope the 'lads* from our class 
continue to fumbh you with interesting bits of 
neH*5 so you will be able to surpass your initial 
efforts. 
" 'Admiral' 0*MaIle>"*s odyssey read like a pro­
logue to a Cook's tour, but George certainly went 
places and met ND men. I think he put the wham­
my on the chances for a successful football season 
by putting Charlie Callahan over the barrel at that 
3 a. m. Sunday session in ^lorrissey Hall. Charlie 
had to discard his lucky hat as early as the second 
game. 
"Father Jim Rizer must have dictated his epistle, 
because he has never written anything longer than 
would fill a penny post card since he graduated. 
Incidentally, I hear from Father Jim regularly, and 
he seems to enjoy his work as a missionary- He is 
temporarily stationed in Roanoke, doing substitute 
parish assignments. 
"The latest word from John *Bus' Redgate is that 
he is impro\'ing rapidly, and may soon be discharged 
from Gaylord Farms Sanitarium, to return to his 
family in Bridgeport, Conn. - Keep plugging, Jack­
son, we know you can make it. 

"I was not able to get to see any of the games in person this fall, but I sure took advantage of the telcvized games from school. Clarence *Korie* Ko­zak, complete with battered hat, trench coat and cigar, was observed on several programs. 
"I have not had an opportunity to pick up loo much nev*s about the *30crs, but I'll list a feu- who arc still in New York and who show up at the N. Y Club meeings every census time. Perhaps the sight of their names in the class news will stir them to action with further information about themselves. Ed Arthur is a sales representative with Western Electric with offices at 120 Broadway, NY C Mike Bishko is wth Empire Box Corp., Clifton, N. J., where his home is located. Don Buchohlz visited my office last year in connection with an insurance claim. He is doing well as a securities representative with a well-known Wall St. firm. 
'Long Jack' Casady has not been seen for some time at our meetings. I am not kidding when I say Jack would make an excellent model for Calvert's Man of Distinction (a plug for the Friels). 
"Art Dennehy usually makes all the meetings and has interesting news about ND classmates, but vcn' poor dope on the nags he is touting. (For further data on this subject, please contact John Bums, '31). 
"To m Bradley was looking chipper when I saw him at the June meeting. I have not seen or heard from Frank Dunn in years. I used to sec him regularly when I lived in his parish. Another classmate long on the Missing Persons List is Carl 'Cliick' Gnming. 
"I would like to hear from Jim Afurray, Geoige Doyle, Ted Abel (my old roomie in Soph Hall, the cardboard palace), Joe Kcelligan, John ifcMurray of Corby Sub, Jcrfm Houlihan, Frankie Dayton, Ralph Johnson. 
"I read with sorrow of the death of my good friend Johnny Mangan. I had a nice visit with Father John Cavanau^ and Johnny Mangan on the Monday follou-ing the Reunion. We recalled-many pleasant incidents from 1926 to 1930. I got to know Johnny very well at school, because my mother and John came from adjoining villages in Ireland. 
"The best to you, Dev, and all my friends at school. Keep up the good work, and I'll assist whenever possible." 
Ed Blatt (Eaton Mfg. Co., Cleveland) sent along a good account of the Na\Y game weekend. He wrote: 
"Received your card of the 4th and, though I am no Bob Ruaric, I hope the following ^vill be of some use to you. 
"The Notre Dame-Na\y \vcekend succeeded in being a great affair in spite of an exceedingly heavy dew which spotted up the gals' new hats the night of the rally, and, what was ^vorse, muddied up the field Saturday. 
"The rally, as always, was well attended. In fact, we were packed in. Loyal ND folks from all over made it. Dick and Vi Bloom were on hand from 
New York, sharing a table with newly-wetls Jerry 
and Mary Rddy. Gay Haas and the missus came 
over from Washington. Recent arrivals to our burg. 
Bill Moss and wife, enjoyed their first Cleveland 
rally. Bill recently transferred residence to Cleve­
land from New York and is with Eaton Mfg., also. 
"The Blatt family was well represented, brothers 
George and Father Bernard holding down places 
at our table. George and wife, Jane, chose the big 
%v'eekend to celebrate the recent arri\*al of their 
third Blatt. Father Bernard and all of us thoroughly 
enjoyed the vvitty remarks of Father Moriarity from 
the speakers' table. 
"Speaking of Moriaritys (no relation), John and 
Mary Moriarity were among those present, John 
just making it, flying in from a business trip to 
New York and coming directly from the airport. 
"Had a chance to bandy words with the Jim 
Callahans and Councilman Al Grisanti. Bill Moss, 
mentioned above, had as his guests at the rally and 
Dick Dericks' backficid: Peter, Bruce, Gerard and Richard. 

for the weekend. Bob Weaver, '37, and wife Ann, a St. Mary's grad. They came up from Coshocton, Ohio, where Bob is an attorney. Moss is our traffic manager at Eaton Mfg. Co. Also saw Art Cronin, '37, of Detroit, and Joe Sotak, '42, who goes to law school with me and is in the banking business with his father. Vic Gul>*as5ey (former mayor of Vet­'V'ille) and wife attended the rally. 
"As for news—I guess I am fresh out. Pat and I have 3 daughters now—twins, 9, and single, 8. Guess the closest our second generation will come to • Notre Dame is St. Mary's. A fine thing! All in all, aside from a few totally uncalled for remarks about my waistline, the ND-Na\y weekend was a huge success." 
A letter just came in from Bus Redgate who can be reached now at 99 Sterling PL, Bridgeport, Conn. Bus writes: 
"Don't know whether I can help you out much. Just getting back to normal here at home. Have been going into tlie office for an hour each day. 

"Last night the local ND club held their first meeting since our communion breakfast in Decem­ber. Nick Lanese, vice-president conducted the meet­ing in tlie absence of Joe KfcNamara, '29, who was on a business trip for his firm, Bridgeport Brass Company. John Mitchell Murphy, '28, and his brother Tom, *29, were both there. Frank McGce, Dan Brennan, Joe Russo, Ed Broughal and several other younger lads made up the meeting. Having only met them for the first time, I failed to get their names. 
"We are la>*ing plans for Universal ND Night, and hope to put it over big this year. 
"The ND Band comes here next month and we all expect to make their stay here as pleasant as possible. 
"I expect to go South shortly, and doubt if I'll be able to make the NYU game in the Garden on the 26th of this month." 
Here are some changed addresses of 1930 class members: 
Major Patrick Dayton, USMC, Villanova College, \^tanova. Pa. Rev. Geo. W. Dolan, C.S.C.. Sacred Heart Col­lege, Watertown, Wis. Leo M. Doriadicr, 800 Fifth Ave., Wihnette, 111. Hairy P. McKeown, 606 Woodlawn Ave., JoHet, 111. John H. Millar, 1417 Huron Terrace, Charleston. 
W. Va. Mario P. Nardone, RFD No. 1, Westerly, R. I. Donald L. Norton, 20 Orange St., Oil City, Pa. 
Fricdiy A. Rous, 415 W. Wayne, South Bend, Ind. Alfred C. Scherer, 1353 NorthcUff Rd., Syracuse, 
N. Y. VciDon J. Slack, 303 E. Napoleon Blvd., South Bend, Ind. Rev. Raymond F. Totten, St. Ann's Church, Dres­den, Ohio. News from close by: Paul Farmer (Interstate Glass Co., South Bend) has a son in prc-med at Notre Dame, and a sharp student. Also Francis "Bill" Fink, managing editor of "The Sunday Vis­itor " has a son here in school, and a good history student. Austin Gildea is a big wheel in the Elk­hart dty administration. Marshall Kuer is county Democratic chairman in Marshall County. Pat Mc-Cttsker, prof at ND, is seen at many of the dupli­cate bridge sessions around town and al Notre Dame. If I could get Lou SteUer from Elkhart over here, we might take him on for a few boards. It was good news to read of Larry Mullirn' re­cent appointment as Director of Athletics at Kai«=^ 
State College, Manhattan, Kans. The class of 1930 wishes "Moon" success in this new assignment. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Andrew A. Aman, Jr., a daugh­ter. 
1931 
One '3Ur who has found a sure way of beating the cigarette and meat shortages and/or high prices is John Arthur Van Dike, Valley Lee, Virginia. 
John was married recently to Miss Mary Adeline Rouen, in Flint, Mich.; and the Van Dikes are now operating Wcstbury Manor, a tobacco and beef enterprise in Valley Lee.. 

And a threat to the housing problem in Man­hattan, Kansas, arises with the transfer of another of the '31 class. The threat is in the form of our owTi LaHTOice A. MuIIins, A.B., '31, and the Mul­lins family. 
"Moon," the recent author of a "Saturday Even­ing Post" story, was named director of athletics at Kansas Sute by Dr. James A. McCain, president. Larry Iea\-es behind (at St. Ambrose) a host of friends and loyal rooters. 
1932 

From Jim Collins: Don Ryan has returned to Chicago after several years in New York. He is associated with Carrier Corp., and has built a new home at 1765 Good Awnue, Mayfield Estates, Desplaines, Illinois. Jerry Conway has moved operations to 1615 Per­kins Drive, Arcadia, Calif. Other new addresses in­clude Don Sulln-an moving to 1505 Westbrook Drive, New Orleans; Don McManus to 77 Crestwood Road, West Hartford, Conn., and Cliff Beck to 1156 E. Victoria, South Bend. John litcher writes that Kelly Powers has been transferred to Milwaukee as Health and Accident Manager of the Continental Casualty Co. He also mentions seeing Barney Powers, Ike Terry and Andy McGnan occasionally. He is the assistant branch manager of the American Assodatcd Insur­ance Companies in ^filwaukee. Mardiy SAwartz kissed off a brand new 5-ycar contract as Stanford's head football coach and is going into pri\*ate enterprrise. After coaching at Creighton and Stanford, he may hang out a law shingle, since he's been admitted to practise in California. 
He told reporters, "I've gone as far as I can in the coaching pro­fession," shortly after he helped coach the West All-Stars in the annual Shrine Game, "and I only h<^>e I can go as far in something else." John Joe Rush was recently made Investigator 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

in Charge at the wage and hour operations office in the Rome-Utica (N. Y.) area, for the U. S. Department of Labor. John was with the Vcteftans' Administration la Buffalo and Utica before joiniiig the Labor Department, and was in the Navy in World War 11. 
Robert Emmett Lee's current address is: 
Robert E. Lee, Jr. 
Lieut Comdr.y U. S. Navy 
Staff, Chief of Naval Air Training, 
NAS, Pensacola, Florida. 
Ray Gdger is editing the "Farmers* Almanac" into its 133rd year from Newark. He's had over 2,000 letters already this year, he states, asking for items like asthma cures and weather predictions. 
Ray claims the **Almanac*' accurately predicted last September's Atlantic Coast storms. No com­ment. 
Only radical change for 1951 is the inclusion of household tips edited (and probably suggested) by Mrs. Geiger. She does her farming in the backyard of their Jersey home. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Cy Theisen, a son, Thomas Theron, in Benton Harbor, Mich., 7 lbs. 13 ozs. 
1933 
Dear '33*s: This is indeed a thing, if not The Thing. Your underwritten undersigned is able again to report that he has received a letter. That makes one this month which is well over par for the course. 
The welcome little message was received from TOM HUGHEN—that's H-U-G-H-E-N, printer, of which more later—and here it is: 
'*Dcar Joe: 
*'I have an idea of a way to get letters for the '33 column, at least it worked in my case . . . and that is to misspell the moniker, as you did mine in the ALUMNUS. [See what I mean, print­er? Misspell them and we get more letters!] 
*'Being away down here [Tom's address is Ameri­can Republics Corporation, Petroleum Building, Houston 2, Texas] I don't get to keep up with 
N.D. too much. In fact the effort to do so after 15 years or more is definitely outweighed by matters closer to home. For example, I'm almost completely converted to the brand of play down here, especially after last football season. 
"However, I'll have you know I went to a N.D. Communion Breakfast in December, and it was the first N.D. gathering I ever attended. The word football was never mentioned. Things are really that bad. 
"I have been with American since leaving law school in *35, and have been in Houston since 1940. I have a wife, who was a Chicago girl, and 4 kids —three gals and a boy. Believe it or not, I'm not going to urge them to go to N.D., or St. Mary's, or Rosary either. [See—we print all the news, bad or not.] I'd like them to go to school close to home with people they will work and live with. They have a Texas brand on them, and T don't want them to miss out on the spirit that according to my view is found no other place on earth." 
Many thanks for letter, Tom, and if you are not a member of the Chamber of Commerce, Houston and Texas is making a sad mistake. I am glad to see that Texans do not learn their loyalty by rote—Kyle Rote, that is—and that the bowl games did not shake your faith. 
You've got a good point about educating your children close to home, even though we in the Mid­west arc sorry to lose out on those like you. But the important thing about your letter for all your ND schoolmates to point with pride is that you attended that Communion Breakfast . . . even though they didn't discuss football. After all, that belief in the spiritual life is the chief lesson that the C.S.C. Fathers, or any other priests, impart and I'm sure your children will learn that from you, wherever they matriculate. Thanks again for the swell letter, and maybe we'll see you when Southern Afethodist plays up here, as I believe they are scheduled to do. 
The McCabes have joined the Vital Statistics de­partment, as John Bums tells me will be properly announced somewhere else in this journal, and the arrival of Mary Regina has kept your slue-foot from meetmg many chums at local activities. 
However, it was my honor and privilege to be toastmaster at the Chicago Club Election Banquet, 
January-February, 1951 

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
E. J. HOYT 

Mr. Hoyt was recently named Chair­man of the Drug and Chemical Export Club of New York and holds member­ship in the National Association of Credit Men. 
Since 1946 he has been credit manager for the International Division of Vick Chemical Company. He joined Vick shortly after being released from Army service. 
Mr. Hoyt was inducted in 1941, and finished the war as a captain in the Signal Corps. He was overseas 42 months and was in the Phillipine and Okinawa invasions. Presently he is a member of Army Reserve. 
Graduating from the University in 1937, he took a position with John P-Maguire Company, in New York, re­maining there until 1941. He is a life­long resident of New York City, al­though recently moved to a home in Paterson, N. J. 
A brother of John Hoyt, '33, past president of the New York City Alum­ni Club, E. J. is finishing a Master's thesis in Business Administration. 
which I will discuss in the Chicago Club column. While there I saw scores of NDs whose names I cannot possibly remember—though I shall rack my brains trying. All looked well and healthy, and here goes for making more enemies by omitting large numbers from the following list of those I saw: 
Club pres. AI Stepan, chairman Frank O'Dowd, Bill Leahy, Frank Holland, A. C. Stepan, Jim Doyle, Jolm O'Shaughnessy, Carl "Stumpy" Gramn, Barry O'Keefe, Jim O'KedFe, Byron Kemieallr and By, Jr., Art Conrad, Bert Metier, Jim Galla^ier, Ed Hoban, Dan Gibbs, Tom McCabe, Gen Vallc, treasurerjay Reynolds, Jim Barry, Terry Dillon, Honorary President John Monaghan, Jim Martin, Gil Seaman, Jack Woods, Jim Sanford, and a host of others to whom I hereby apologize. 
At other times and places I have seen Walt Ca-hill, Fran Crowe, Tom Gorman, Marty linsky, Justin and Kevin O'Shea, Neil Hurley, Ed Ryan, and, again—a canasta handful of others. 
Thb is written as the thumbprint of another Asb Wednesday is almost discernible, so I thooght I might get in a few ckmng words on the sackcloCh season: This is the time when the overstuffed Uth ­fol take stocfc of assets, possets, and the giowinc hardness of church Imeelers, and admit if only to wives that the paunch is licking the punch that old '33 used to boast. It's a far cry these Lenten meal times—at least in this diocese—from the days wbem dry toast and black coffee was the order of A e day, and a two-hour priming job at dinner to re­pair the havoc was the bloeplate blueprint. 
If I can sense a trend, and I'm an old trend-tracer and tattler, the Chnrdi is placing more and more emphasis on the positive side of Lent. I think the word itself can be used as a play or pray npoa words: the blessings we have are oiUy—brace yoor-self—Lent to us, and now is the time to offer thanks for them and penance because we so little deserve 'em. So the recommended exercise for this'40-da(y workout is a more frequent bending of the knees. It reduces the waistline and strengthens the sinri­tual lifeline. 
The shadows of Korea have not fallen directly on too many of us '33s, but they point the way to what may be dark valleys ahead; and the sorrow of one, in the Catholic tradition, is the grief of alL We've got a direct promise from a Mother who never backs down on Her word, that if we pray the Rosary hard enough, the threat to world peace will dissolve. We may have only tonight to do it in —let's start now, .. . 
And if you'd like to give me up for Lent, let me remind you that you can't give up what you're not accustomed to—so write often, and next Lent put McCabe on that no-no list. 
Best regards, Joe McCabe Rosary College Rn-er Forest, HL 
HOLD THAT PRESS 

Just in from Rtm O^bea, in Cairo (111.)—a let­ter. This makes t^vo, and may, we hope, set off a chain reaction. No chain letters—^just a diain re­action. It's on a letterhead of the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co., and reports, amoi^ other matters that Russ is a candidate for the City Commission in Cairo: 
**Had Christmas cards from Father Ray Clancy, C.S.C., who's now in Washington, D. C ; from Johnny Ross, Nick's '32 track manager and from Fred Suite, In Miami. Ross is still in Brooklyn, the postmark says. 
• "The primary election here is Feb. 27, and the runoff on April 17. There is no contest in the pri­mary, but the test comes in April. More of that later. BiU RoKving, '23, is a candidate, too. 
"We're now located about 20 miles frtmi Cairo, over in Kentucky, at a uranium plant—and they aren't making ax handles. The plant is a pretty big thing ID these parts." 
The KfcCabe Pipeline and Listening Post Service reports that Jim Doyle is located in St. Cather­ine's, Ontario, Canada—with Brewers' Warehousing, Ltd., is now the parent of a son, 4J4 years old, and daughter, 8 months. 
STATISTICS, REVITALIZED 

From John Crimmins: (to Jim Annstroog) 
"I am very grateful for the big splurge which you gave me in the last edition of the ALUMNUS. However, I want to point out, not for the purpose of correction, but for your own Information, that your source for our vital statistics was badly out of date. 
"I am enclosing a copy of our Christmas crard. There are no nephews or nieces In it, and none of the neighbors' kids wandered In." 
Frrd Laughna has been made admini.strativc as­sistant to the vice-president of Chr>-slcr's Airtcnip Di\^sion in Dayton. Ohio. Fred began with Chrvs­lef the year he graduated, starting as a facton.­time clerk. 
Three years later he was assistant manager of tlie Australian Export Division. In 1940 he switched to Airtcmp Division and became Detroit regional man­ager in JWfi. Al the lime of his latest appoint­ment he was regional manager In Chicago. 
BIRTHS 
To Mr. and Mrs. Joe McCabe, a daughter, Mar\­Regina, Januarv* 26. To Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Dcwald, Fort AVayne, Ind, a son. 
To Mr. and Mrs. J- Harold Roddy, a daughter, Carol Anne—7 lbs., 4 oz., Dec. 26, 1950 at .Ameri­can Hospital. Paris, France. 
SYMPATHY 
To Paul Boyle (Gar>% Ind.), on the death of his mother. Besides Paul, three other Boylcs arc alumni: John C , Jr., '35; Father Jerry Boyle, C.S.C., '35; and Leo R., '38. 
To John R. Cahill (Dixon, III.) on the death of his father. 
1935 
Here we are again gang! By some unfortunate turn of fate, we missed giving you a column for Novenibrr-Dccrrober. Tlie mails did not come through and we never received a deadline card. Nevertheless, we are continuing with reunion letters even though the dope is growing old. 
Jack Braymer, living at 2035 Dewey Street, out in Bartlesville. Oklahoma, wrote: that he is still with the Phillips Petroleum Company. If our mem­ory sen*es us correctly. Jack went with this outfit when he left school. We appreciate not only Jack's contribution toward the reunion, which he made in lieu of his coming, but also his work on the Reunion Committee. 
Though they did not come, we got a report on Cainille Gra\d and Bob Rogers. Both ot tbcm are practicing law: the former in his native .Alexandria, Louisiana, the latter in Rockaway Beach, N. Y. 
.Although we told you before reunion that Al Lawton was not coming back because reunion fell the same time as the graduation of his oldest daughter from the eighth grade, wc felt that we should give you another report on .Al at this time. Wc have never known just what his position \\*as with the Aetna Life Insurance Company of Hart­ford, Connecticut. We find that he has signed his letter .Assistant Superintendent of .Agencies. 
Here is something on Jack Flanigan, out of Chicago: 
"For the sake of the records to bring you up-to­date on names, I married a Boston girl six years ago- We have three children: Jack, Jr., 4; the twins—Terrencc and Timothy, 3. Riglit now we arc expecting a little sister in June. TTiis latter fact is the reason for some of my indecision regarding reunion. 
*'I am a licensed Master Plumber in the State of Illinois and have my own plumbing and heating contracting business. Spent four years In the United States Na\-al Reserve as a Communications Officer, but did nothing spectacular in that department. I am presently living in the South Shore district of Chicago in a house that is complete with a dog and mortgage." Jack, as you may remember, show­ed up at reunion and took home a prize as being the roost recent father.; He welcomed the stork and ran to Xotre Dame. 
Although Tom (Hawaiian Islands) FI\-nn reported at reunion, we cannot resist glWng you a quote or two from his prc-rcunion letter: 
''Please trj* to get some of the old bridge players back on the campus—and I also hereby hurl a chal­lenge at any and all comers in tlie 'most youthful loooking,' or * least-changed classmate,' or whatever that contest may be called. Include me in, also, on any contest as to which of the old gang makes the longest trip to attend the great event." .As you all know, Tom won both contests hands down. 
Here is a ver>- full report on Tom AMIIimsen, 759 Priority Road, York, Penns>*lvania. He gives us the story as follows: 
"Suppose a fellow must start in the beginning .. . after leaving Dayton landed with G.M.C. in Harrison, New Jersey. . . . Chemist, Metallurgist, Metallurgical Procurement (Midwest Steel Mills) 
. . total five years, son, C.T.W., Ill, bom in New York City, 1939 . . . daughter, Barbara Elaine, born in 1942 . . . lost four before C.T.W. landed, so that is all to report in that department. 
"In 1943 went to Na\-al Ordnance (York) as Metallurgist . . . became Ch. in 1944. ... . W.J. termination . . . did consulting for a while . . . dis­trict engineer for Eutectic . . . later Ch. Metals Buyer. . . . Metallurgist Division Super\TSor, and now District Engineer again . . . much better, makes it possible to be at home. 
"Still try to be active in civic affairs—Catholic and public . . . long stor>- . . . Catholic High Scliool band , . . Public School P.T.A. . . ." 
When anyone of you birds can come up with three 
John Montague, honorary Chicago Club president, and Father Cavanaugh. 
more pithy paragraphs, please send your letter col­lect. 
We received an interesting letter from Bill Burns, who is now Brother Fergus Bums, CS.C. Said Bill in part: 
"I am sorry that I will not be able to attend the reunion; would certainly enjoy going and kno**- it would be fun to meet the old classmates. But I will be bus>-right at the time and cannot come. 
"As you already know I joined the Brothers of Holy Cross in August, the same summer as gradua­tion. After Novitiate and one school year of gradu­ate work at Xotre Dame, I was sent to St. Ed­ward's University in Austin, Texas. I was here seven years teaching Business Administration classes. Then i was transferred to University of Portland, Port­land, Oregon, where I spent four years teaching commercial subjects during the latter part of the war. I have been back here at St. Edward's for the lost two years and I am now a Professor of Business Administration. During the summer I found time to do graduate work at the University of Texas. 
"I also do prefect work in the residence halls. I have had about eight or nine years of experience and I have found that my training as a student at Xotre Dame stands me In good stead when it comes to detecting skiving students and holding down the usual horseplay in which the students still engage. 
"My brothur, Joe Burns, is still living in our family home in Watertown, New York. .. . I cer­tainly hope that I will be able to attend the twentieth or at least the twenty-fifth reunion. . . . I will be with you in spirit on the ninth or tenth of June." 
It was good hearing from Bill and to discover one more of our crowd who has decided to devote himself to reh'gion. Bill sent along word on Brother Edmund Hunt, CS.C , whom many of you will re­member as the good-looking blonde Brother in a number of our classes. Said Bill, "Brother Edmund Hunt, CS.C , is the President here. He is doing a fine job at St. Edward's. Brother Patrick, CS.C , is Vice President in charge of publicity. Many of the members ot the class will remember him from Brownson Hall where he was Rector and Prefect for levcral years." Wc know that thc^ Brownsonites will never forget Brother Pat. 
Her« Is ao interesting note from Jim Hamilton which wc think we should pass on to you. In his pre-reunion letter, he wrote in part as follows to Bin Ryan: 
"You may be surprised to have a letter from mc on Greene Manufacturing »tationer>-. I now have a new job in addition to my duties at the Dumore Company, as I took over the presidency of this company in January of this year (1950). 
"Do you have any more children? I now have three: a boy, 4; a girl, 2; and a baby boy, six months old. Considering the fact that I did not get married until 1945, I believe that I am keeping up to Notre Dame standards." 
line Wener, in one of his communications, passed along the won! that Ray Brett would not be able to attend reimion because of new duties he was caking over in conjunction with bis position at Ford Motor Company in Detroit. We are glad to have this dope on Ray since we did not know wliat he was doing. 
We think this is sufficient chit-chat from the re­union letters. There are many more in the file, but they arc mostly from those who returned for the weekend and those of you who were present for the festive occasion had an opportunity to cx­chsmge experiences. Tlie remaining letters from non­participants were not particularly newsy. 
On the current news front, we have the results of the class election. The total number of ballots cast ranged from 143 for class secretary* to 167 for treasiuxr. Wc are very happy to announce that the 
-officers for the next five years are as follows: 
President—Bill Ryan (Indiana). Vice Resident, Midwest—John Clark (Illinois). Vice Plrendent, South—Jerry Foley (Tennessee). Vice President, East—Bill Kennedy (Nc%«- York). Vice Prendent, West—Vic Arcadi (California). Treasurer—Pal Lynch (Indiana). Secretary—Your Scribe. 
We want to congratulate and clasp the bands of our fellow officers. The one disappointing note about the election h that only about thirty per cent of the class voted. Wc had hoped that a greater per­centage would have taken the opportunity to express their preferences. 
Since one of the basic reasons for the new class officer program is to keep us all informed about each other and thereby soldify our ranks, wc hope from our end that our four vice presidents, to­gether with the other two officers will keep the mails busy with newsy memoranda. You don't have to send us much but please try to give us a report on a few of the men each month. Unless we receive the dope the column will soon become sterile. 
We think this is a good place to announce that Roy SdK ^ here on the Baltimore front, has just moved into a beautiful new California ranch-t^iie home in Blythewood. Roy will have plenty of room to nm in and we think he should consider having his ouTi private reunion for *35*ers sometime during the next year. How wc could warm up that house! 
A personal note Is perhaps in order since wc continue to wear the Gruen wrist watch with much 
At the risk of incurring the Hochreltcr w*rath and indignation, the editor of the ALUMNUS would like to report that Hoch is making yardage on the Baltimore stage. First, ac Captain Gallagher in "The Trai­tor" and now as Nero in ".Androcles and the Lion." 
The Vagabond Players put the sleeve on Hoch for the Capt. Gallagher part In Jan­uary and drafted him into the Nero part when the regular player was forced out by illness. Besides his appearances on stage, Hoch is directing the Vagabonds' "Late Christopher Bean," due in April. 
The ALUMNUS editor ordinarily does not butt into Hoch's column like this, but would like to note that Franklyn (whom you can sec at the head of the breakfast table in that Baltimore Communion picture) was playing in two Vagabond features and direct­ing a third while not even a member of the players. Herewith a feather in the Hoch­reiter hombur^. 

pleasure. Recently we appeared on a local TV pro­gram and won a Spidel band. Strangely enough this occurred right after the original band broke. The Spidel band is a beautiful complement to the class gift. 
That's it, gang. Keep them rolling. 
1937 
Glenn Richardson is personnel manager of the Cincinnati District for Kroger Company. He was transferred there from Charleston, W. Va., to take over a larger territory. 
Sons of the Revolution (in the State of New 
York) have named Jack Wallach to the society. 
Headquarters arc in Frances Tavern, comer of 
Broad and Pearl, New York City. Hall Evcrson, 
sccrctar>' of the society, announced the admission 
of Jack. 
BIRTHS 

To Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Dahill (Province­town, Mass.) a son, Michael John, Jan. 11. 
1938 
Tom O'Brien, it says here, right in the "Universe-
Bulletin," has become a French chef. 
Did it on the GI Bill, too! 
He graduated as such under the eye of one Louis Barthe, boss of Nfaxim's kitchen (in Paris) for over 30 years, the U-B says. He whompcd up a cuisine for 14 French critics and U. S. Ambassador David Bruce as his graduating thesis, [menu ^%•tIl be sent on request.] 
Tom wants to open a Frcncli restaurant in the Lfwp in Chicago, with fanc>' dishes and less fanc>* prices. 
1939 
Seems strange to be sitting down to write this column with even just a little news to report. Even though it may be more than just a little ancient, don't think that is has been reported that Bernard Feency, after graduating magna cum laude M.S. in Education at Notre Dame last year, is now assistant professor of Law at DePauI in Chicago. Bcrnic lives at 31 N. Drexcl, LaGrangc, IJI., on a plot big enough for his three daughters. 
Had the pleasure of a visit with Dick Anton in Chicago in late Januar>' and found him well physi­cally and in business. Dick is director of employee relations (I think that's the right title) at Hot­point in Cliicago and when I saw him had just concluded a long day writing up a labor contract at their plant at Milwaukee. Hotpoint is a divi­sion of General Electric and I noticed in the "Wall Street Journal" that Dave Meskill had been pro­moted to a bigger job in the appliance division back in New England. Ray Scfaleck is with Hotpoint in Afilwaukec, but I didn't have any opportunity to visit. 
Bumped into Ed Brennan a couple of nights ago on one of his trips to Kansas City. Hope he will keep his promise and drop a note before coming in next time. 
Tom Reardon now has his own insurance agency here in Kansas City and doing ver>' well—in more ways than one, now being up to five in the family. 
Am looking for^vard to hearing from someone soon. If the letters don't come in any better than the past three or four months, this column isn't much use in keeping track of the doings. Let us hear from you. 
Bob Schrocder, formerly of Brooklyn, has been promoted in San Francisco to the position of man­ager of IBM's dbtrict ser\'ice bureau. 
Bob had been a sales representative for IBM in San Francisco and an assistant representative in Brooklyn. 
From Bill Ricke: 
"Been living in Atlanta for about a year now. I'm still working for the same firm, Plomb Tool of Los Angeles, and am now in charge of south­eastcrn sales." 
Father L. F. McKcan has entered the Trapplst order, and Is now in the Abbey of Our Lady of New Mclleray, near Dubuque, Iowa. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Julius R. Kristana, a sun, Stephen Paul, Jan. 27. 9 lbs. 8 ^ oz., at Walling-ford. Conn. 
January •February, 1951 
Archbishop Grancr being interviewed at the Boston Club luncheon. Jack Nye Duffcy and John Moran backstopping. 
1940 
Much more of this and the ALUMNUS will be registered as co-ed. '44 has a Ladies Auxiliary, and comes now MRS. Bob Sanford, with a report from the '40 members who've written Bob on class doings. 
Mrs. S. liritcs: "Bob is knee deep in public accounting and be­cause of the long hours and traveling I shall (tem­porarily) take over this branch of correspondence until March 15. [Wonder why she picked that date. Editor.] '*Larry Ferguson Is at a seminary In Nashota, Wis. He writes: 'Have a big load this term, but am still hoping to get into Milwaukee for an ND Club Jfeeting.' **I'm Sending the letters Bob has received and hope you can use some of them." Sincerely, JVfary L. Sanford. 
From Jack Mclntyre: "This is a note from one who has neglected to send in any news, but this time I have an item that Is important to me. I would like to announce that I was married on Dec. 26, 1950, to Miss Ann­ette Mon^eau and am now a ver>' happily married man. "I'm still in Providence, have my own sporting goods business and coach the Providence Steam Rollers pro football team. Incidentally, this team is the oldest operating pro team in the U. S. "Sorr>' I had to pass up the class reunion last June but the Naval Reser\'e called me In for a month of active flying duty. I'm CO of VF 912 at Squantum Naval Air Station, Mass. "Would like to hear from Chet Sulli\-an, Red Obcrbrunner, S:cve Coughlin if you ever see them. Best wishese to the Sanford family." 
From Joe O'ConnslI: *'Sorr>* that you couldn't get some kind of write­up on the '-W class reunion but I know it's pretty difficult to pin people down. *'I'm always interested in your report, hope you keep up what must be an unappreciated task. Best wishes to all the *40crs. I sec that Chuck Meagher is energetic as ever." 
Joe's address is: Amercian Consulate General, APO 407. c/o Postmaster. New York. He's in the Office o( the U. S. High Commissioner for Germany. 
From Jim McShanc: "After all these years it has to be a request that makes me write you. As class secretary. Bib, do you have tlic addresses of some of the fellows? Or would you know where I could get hold of some of them? **rd like to send some of them ordination an­nouncements, but I've lost track of cver>'body but Joe Mufqueen and Jack Reddy. Don't know how many of tlie old friends would remember me after all these years. Hope to hear from you soon." Jim Is shortly to become the RCT. James E. Mc-Shane, S.J., Is now teaching at St. Mary's Kansas. Clarence T. "Pete" Sheehan, City Hall reporter for the Youngstown (Ohio) "Vindicator," was one of about 35 newspapermen selected to attend the American Press Institute at Columbia University. The session was a seminar for reporters from all over the countr>' who arc covering municipal affairs. Charlie O'Brien is commander of the Amvets' Post in Alliance, Ohio. He has.a law practice In 
Alliance and he aod Mrs. 0*8 have three youassten. ters. 
Joha C KcBdwr, M,D., has opened a new office in Toledo, with practice limited, so the fonaal an­nouoccnient says, to "plastic and maxillofacial nir­gery and recomtructive sui^err of the head." 
John took a short walk in the Fall of '39—off the field where he'd just kicked the field goal that beat Purdue. Remember? 3-0 was the score. 
Bin Bok k M at Irvington High School, Irvingtoa­on-Hudson, N. Y. Teaches English. Toai littaa left Mandel Bros., in Chica^, to take a position in New York with Bloranlngdalc's. 
DOB Fotkect, of the stafF of Connecticut's Cath­ilc weekly, "The Catholic Transcript," writes that he and Mrs. (Esther) are parents of a son, their first. 
And to Mr. and Mrs. George K. Ward, of Bay City, Mich., came a daughter, Kathryn Margaret, Dec. 16. 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Miss Jfun Marie Hamilton to Daniel F. SaIlo«n of New York (now an Alaskan duty with the Navy). 
Miss Vivian Repka to Edwin H. Somnwrcr of South Bend. 
1941 
The class of 1941 Is, no doubt, wondering wheth­er "Sir. Secretary has or has not disappeared from the earth's face. No he hasn't. And herewith be submits apologies to those who pick up each issue of the ALUMNUS only to find a skeletonal colmnn for 1911. 
Things are about to change. 
With the reunion upcoming, I have received a post card from Mr. Robert J. Doran—with Brazi-Illan stamps yet. A coincidence? Yes! For, five years ago, just before reunion time. Bob also sent me a card from down South America way to assure me that he wotild be on hand for the gathering of the '41 clan. 
He repeats that promise this time. Some more in­telligence regarding Bob—he and Vera are the parents of Peggy (6), Jim (4), and "Cappy" (5 months). 
A short note arrived recently from Matthew S. (Bob) Byrnes out in Fowler, Ind. Major announce­ment—"Bett and I have a new baby girl, bom October 20th. Her name is Martha Cu^on Byrnes, and she is our third child and. Incidentally, our third daughter." 
Bob also plans to make the Tenth Reunion. 
Now—about that Reunion. 
In wTlting to me about It, Dr. Eugene (Gene) Ryan has gone all out on the side of enthususm. Gene made the last one and will be at the Tenth If he has to walk from Reading, Pa. 
You say that's not enough! Then tell you what he's ofTered to do\ 
Write a note to Gene (at 1(X)9 Pcnn Street in Reading) and let him know If you're planning to get out to the ND campus for the reunion. Include your return address. 
Gene will make up a list of the names of every­one who plans to attend and shoot a copy off to each one of you. 
Qene, by the way, is the father of two little girls. He and his irife ivill he out for the reimion 
' along with Jfan Walsh, who is working in Bethlc hem. Pa. Jim has also two daughters—one a recent arrival. More info from Gene—Ml Tobin is with the Reading Credit Bureau, "a good man to know." BiU Herzoff Is also In Reading, doing engineering work. Ray M^liams finished his surgery residency last time Gene heard. Ray Is married, the father of one hny. BUI MooMer is out in Frisco. Gerry Frnelich Is doing general practice in Jersey. Gene wants to hear from Bob O'Shanghnewy, Johnny McNamara, and Don Casady. Now for me—should anyone care to get the de­tails. Finally got married. To a lovely girl named Dolores. We went to Europe, were fortunate enough to be in Rome during the Holy Year and had an audience with Pope Pius XII. We also visited hourdes, London, Paris, Zurich and Lisbon. By this time we're well settled at, get this and drop a line (everybody): 123 Glenrock Dri\-e, Ruthfred Acres, Bridge-ville. Fa. And get to that reunion. We've got some new class officers to elect and ned a quorum. At the Fifth there were nearly a hundred. Let's double it this time. 
1943 
From Jack Wigguu: Evcr>-one seems to be ganging up on tlie Class of '43. Last issue the ALUMNUS failed to carry a word that your secretary had fonvardcd to the University for publication in the Class Notes. It's a gigantic conspiracy* to keep us from getting our due publicity. Through de\'ious methods the Class of 1934 craftily rearranged the last two digits of the graduating year, and published our Class notes in the '34 column! SufBcc to say that Mr. John P. Bums, the managing editor of the ALUMNUS, is a member of the 1934 Class. 

The fact that our notes appeared in the 1934 column was brought to my attention by Joseph £. Jacob (42 P>*thian Ave., Torrington, Conn.). Joe wrote his first letter to a Class Secretary in years only to have it buried in the *Old Men's' column. 
We have a Christmas card from Budd Cans (220 

S. Pershing, Wichita, Kans.) who told of the newest addition to his family, Marie Elenor (&feg), bom January 23, 1950. His other daughter, GiGi, is al­most four years old. Budd is working at the Boeing plant in Wichita in the Contract Administration Department. He has been doing interesting contract work ^vith the government on the B-47 jet bomber. 
Paul Wcbcr noted on his Christmas card that their latest addition, Renata Lee, weighed in at 8 lbs., 4 oz., on Dec. IDth. Congraulations to Paul and his wife. 

From Dallas' western suburb, Fort Worth, Texas, Donald B. Guy (5008 Locke St.], sent the following letter late last November: "I notice in the October Notre Dame ALUMNUS that you are the 1943 Class Secretary- and also tliat my name is listed under a Los Angeles address. I want to correct the address and also make knoun my presence in this territory-. 
''Bill Ungashick came in Saturday and stated that you and his brother were in a prison camp together dunng the last war. I would like to get together with you during a Dallas Club meeting or anytime that you happen to visit Fort ^Vorth. I have not joined the Dallas Alumni Club, but plan on doing so soon. I am pleased to know that there is a Notre Dame classmate close by so wc can cry on each other's shoulder over this football season." 
From another new Texan comes the following: From Stan Murray (Gulf Drive Inn, R. R. No. 1, Box 13, Galveston, Texas): **I must admit that I have been at least as negligent as the rest of the class of 1943 in helping you fill your column, but now that we arc both Texans by adoption I seem to feel a greater ui^e to write. 
"I'll be living here in Galveston for about a year 

to take the Physical Theraphy course at the Medical 
Branch of the University of Texas. The course be­
gins in January and ends in December of 1951. If 
any of your travels bring you dou-n this way, stop 
in and see me. It's very easy to find the place; just 
go out 61st St., and if you're traveling too fast and 
overshoot the mark, you'll take a s^nm in the Gulf 
of Mexico. 
'*During our trip from Rochester, my wife and I stopped at Jacksonville, Fla., where we had the pleasiu-c of meeting John Lanahan at a high school football game. John is in the lumber business, and has a \nfe and two children. 
"We hit New Orleans in time to attend the Tulane game. We enjoyed the game tremendously, but were unable to spot any classmates in the mob of 70,000. 
*'In August of 1949 when we were honc>-mooning through the Adirondacks, Jeanne and I went over to St. Albans, Vermont, and spent some time with my old roomie, MTard Menard. He and his wife have one baby. 
"Can't tell you about any of the other boys, Jack, so I'll close with best wishes form '.America's Playground'." 
Thanks for the letter, Stan. We hope that many others from the class wiH take the time to send that "once-in-a-lifetimc" letter sometime between now and the next deadline date. 
While waiting for a plane in the Oklalioma City aiiport about three months ago I talked briefly to Jerry Comer. Jerry now lives in FlaggstafT, Arizon, and is interested in the paper mill business. 
Wll the entire class assembled in Washington do a solo on contributing class news! Blair Mc­Gowan and Bill Tracy closed with a rush just before press time. Joe Jacob writes from 42 Pythian Street, Torrington, Connecticut: 
"After eight years I think it's about time I made my contribution to our class column. Of those eight years I spent three with Pan American World Air­ways at LaGuardia Field, one with my Dad making ice cream, and the last four with the Torrington Manufacturing Company here in my home town. We make fans and centrifugal blower wheels. 
"Most of the fellows I've kept in touch with are the Aero Engineers like myself. Bill Waldnia stopped in to see me one evening this sununer. I've been working nights this summer, so I was able to take him on a tour of the plant. He found it interesting as he is working for one of our customers. His office was in the process of being moved from New York City to Hartford. Art Hiegd is also working in Hartford. He lives in Wclhers­field and is in the engine test section of Pratt & AVhitney Aircraft. 
"I stopped in at Pan-American for a visit during last Easter week-end and met three of the class working there. Jack ^Viethofl* is Po^vcr Plant En­gineer, Mel Rummcl, %vho has been there since graduation, is in Production Control, and Gcoi ^ Coppin is a Flight Engineer. George has just been transferred from Pan American's Pacific Coast di­vision and was attending school in preparation for going to England for three years. He expected to fly from a home base in England. 
"My wife is also a Pan American alumnae. Her folks live in Elmhurst, N. Y., so we get down to the big city quite often with our two youngsters. When there we get together with roomie Jade Andres. Jack is married and has two children. He is working as an architect and recently took the examination to become a registered architect. 
"I bated to miss our 5-Year Reunion in '48, but I'll be there for the tenth in '53." 

Good for you, Joe. We'll be looking for you then. Meantime, keep us posted with letters like this one. AVc read quite a few names we haven't seen in this column for some time. 
Blair McGowan post cards: "I seem to get a line off to the ALUMNUS about every 3 years—they go by too fast. Saw Leo Lewis and new bride at the North Carolina game as well as Frank Kaiser, Bill ^fiddendorf and Mrs. "Middy," Jerry Gainer, Joe Goecken and Bill McCauliffc. 
''Repeat on Kaiser at the Michigan State game, but that was all. Seem to miss the Gate 14 meet­ing after games in a rush to get out on the high­way and home. 
"Have three children and am living at 1116 Washington Blvd., Birmingham, Michigan." 
Thanks for your contribution. Blur. Send us another report of any you might have seen at the Pitt game. 
Bill Tracy journeyed to the campus for the Mich­igan State game and he reports from 607 U. S. Court House, Foley Square, N. Y. C : 
"The Notre Dame men of the F.B.I, are all functioning as usual. I went out to see the Michi­gan State game last week and it was a pleasure to^ be on campus again. The results of the game dimmed an othensise perfect Saturday at ND. I saw John "Chow" Treacy at the game, and he beamed when he mentioned his five children. "Chow" is in business wztb his fathcr-in-laiv. Afike God&ey also attended the game in the company of Irma and Ida Bonnicclli, librarians at the ND Library. Mike said that both he and his brother Jim arc practicing law in St. Louis. 
"My brother, Joe, Frank Kunkel, Jim and Mike Godfrey had a get-together in St. Louis during the summer. They had a swell time talking over old times in Lyons Hall. Frank is teaching at St. John's University in Brooklyn. My brother prac­tices with Hogan, KcIIcher and Bill, New York City. 
"I saw Tony Kfaloney today and lie advised me that OIlie Hunter was transferred to his home town, Erie, Pa., where he is a resident agent with the 
F.B.r. Tony and I arc in the same office, but due to its size we don't see each other often. Tony is the father of two wonderful children. 
"Out at ND, prior to the game I saw Bill Cemey and Chet Grant, my old football coaches and both looked prosperous. I had a long chat with Brother Edwin, principal at Central Catholic, South Bend. I also had a long talk with &fr. Willis Nutting of the History Department." 
Our thanks. Bill, for taking the time once again to drop the class a note of your activities. It certainly would make the gathering of a representa­tive column an easy task if we could get a few more to WTite as often. 
Ed C. Roney, Jr., has switched from tlie Detroit office of Merrill Lynch, Pearce, Fcnncr and Beane, to Manlcy, Bennett & Co. Ed formerly was a sU­ttstician with Chrysler Corp. Edward C , III, ar­rived lu t fall, weighing in at 10 lbs. 
Bin Bi^mer has moved from Buffalo to Syra­
ctise, N. Y., to head the Syracuse branch of Re­
liance Electric & Engineering of Cleveland. Bill 
had been a field sales application engineer for the 
past four years with the company. 
BIRTHS 
To Mr, and Mrs. F. Gerard Feeney in South Bend,, a daughter, Mary Pauline, 7 lbs. 8 oz. 
1944 
At the end of this column you'll find a slate of officers picked by the Class Nominating Committe. Those elected (ballots to be mailed from the Alumni Office—^with return envelope furnished) will serve until our next reunion. 
For fuller and detailed explanation sec end of column. But read your way through. Never know when you'll find mention of somebody you thought was in Korea. Matter of fact, quite a few are in Korea. 
Leading off is news of the appointment of Jack O'CoBikdl to a professorship at Clemson College; and another change of address, Duke Leary to Rice Lake, Wisconsin. Also Lt. (j.g.) Jack McKen­
•a, USNR, to USS LST 772, F.P.O., San Fran­cisco. Another announcement, dated February 9, of the engagement of ^Villiam C. O'Connor in the general practice of law as an associate of E. J. O'Connor, 522 Fifth Ave. N. Y. C. 
A member of the nominating committee. Jack Colliiis had occasion to come through with infor­mation on several occasions: "After the Cleveland game Bill Grafe stopped by my room in the Hotel Cleveland. Married life certainly seems to agree with Bill, who looked fine. He is still working for the Abbott Pharmaceutical Laboratories as a sales­man in the Cincinnati district and had a little in­formation about another class member. Jack Mc-Kemia, who has received active duty orders from the Navy. 
"Jim Retter, '45, and his wife, the former Flor­
ence McCarthy, ^so stopped by the room for a 
short visit. Jim is with Union Carbide as a sales­
man in the Chemicals Division in Cleveland. 
"In the terminal I ran into Jrrry Colman and 
his brother, Fran, who entered Notre Dame ^vith 
me in 1941 but graduated after the war. Both were 
on their way home from the game. 
**CarI .^jtone, '49, was also staying at the Hotel 
Cleveland and I had a short talk with him while 

waiting for the elevator. 
'*Bin Bamctt, who will receive his doctor's de­
gree in metallurgy from Notre Dame this spring, 
stayed with me in Cleveland. Bill and I lived to­

geUier in Cadillac Hall at school while I was work­
ing for my master's degree in 1948." 

Then later as a follow up: "Since I last wrote to you I have started on my way to taking the big step in life, marriage that is. During the recent holiday season I became engaged to Miss Elizabeth 
L. B^Iin of Midland, Pa., my home town. No date has been set for the wedding but it will occur during this year. 
"Saw IKdc 0*Hcam during the Christmas season «diile he was home. He looked as big as ever and appeared to be in excellent health." 
Frank Stnmpf came through with a vcr>- infor­mative letter that just missed the last issue. Winter hadn't come when he wrote: 
"My wife and I went to New Orleans for the Tulane game and ran into a number of our class­mates. First, there was Jack Wattcrs, who is now living in New Orleans. Sam Wing came up from Dallas and Tom Brcnnan flew in from Houston. Jim and Floy Meagher were there from Harriman. Tenn., where they are now liring. Jim is still a 'damyankec' even though he has been in the South ever since the war. At the pre-game rally I saw Jim Mahoney, Bob O'Malley, and Jim Clarke, who is now back at ND. Later we saw John "Adam" Qnimi. It was swell seeing so many of the fellows ^ain and exchan^g information on other class­mates that each of us had heard from. 
"Here and there: Frank Curran is coaching at a high school somewhere in Michigan; I've sent Joe Van Dyke two telegrams and a letter and haven't received an^ answer as yet. 
"Here in" Richmond, Leo Burke's wife is in the same bridge club as my wife. Leo was taken sick at the North Carolina game in New York last year, and was a long time getting over it. His roomniate at ND, Ton Cooaty is in school here at the Medi-
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

cal College of Virginia. I have seen him very often, since he is dating my wife's sister. St. Mary's alumnae please note. Also now in Richmond is Ed Boyle, brother of Dick. He said that Dick died some years ago of heart trouble. 
"As for myself, I'm in the brick manufacturing business, and nuvi* have two children. If any of the fellows pass through Richmond I would cer­tainly love fr.r tiicAi to giv.r mc a call." 
And tltuugh it may seem anti-climatic, we woidd like to insert here a portion of the first paragraph of Frank's letter: "Wouldn't our class news in the ALUSfNUS he tnnst interesting if each o[ us ivould resolve to write at least once a year? I'll resolve to do just that right here and now." 
And the above gives the best and most interesting cWdence of the results of such a rcsohition. 
A short, but very welcome note, from Leo Bu­chignani crarrics in part the following glad informa­tion: "On November 27th I was married to Elisa­beth Crislcr. She is a Afemphis girl, although all her mother's people arc from Cleveland—the Criles." 
A brisk and generous letter from Jim Piatt: 
"Your letter caught me, no less, on a leave. I am again back in the scr\*icr: i.e., the U. S. Ma­rine Corps. I was called tip with the organized rc­ser\"e. My only words on the situation arc 'It looks mighty unCathoUc over there.' 
I was married in June, and since have done a lot of traveling. Saw Bill Schcuch in L. A., also Bob Burke in New York, and have recentiv visited with Jack Coaker, and Jack Thornton in Chicago. Spent Sew Year's eve with Frank Vignala, Stratte Coorlas, and G:ne Pilawski. So I'm surrounded by ND men. That's all I have to oflfcr, but a hello to Leo Lardic." 
Glad tidings from the Afidwest via Pat Kiley: "I got married on November 18th, 1950, at St. Paul's Churcli in Marion, Indiana. Barbara Jane Fcnstermakcr of Pclham Manor, New York, was the lovely bride. Joe Dillon, '44, of South Bend, was an usher, along with John Koch, '44, of Dunkirk, New York. Both came to Marion for several days and wc had a grand reunion. 
"Have been in New York several times during the last few months, and once during the New Year's holidays for about five days. Next time out will give you a call for sure. Was there in September and ran into Ed Dowling at Mass in New Rochellc. 
"Now that the football season is over, don't run into so many of the old bo>-5. Mike Kcllcy from Indianapolis stops in now* and then, and I run into the Fitzgeralds—Jim and Joe from Indianapolis— frequently; also Ted Smith, wlio runs a beer dis­tributing agency In Anderson. 
"Jack Scgerson from Chicago stopped in Marion one day last fall, traveling for a jewlcry company and Alarion was one of his stops. 
"My address will still be Northwood, Marion, Indiana, until April first, when we move into our new apartment." 
From up-state Nc»' York, Wrangler President Bill Lawless sends a lengthy report, as follows: 
"Although have not been able to get back to ND since February of *44, I have had the pleasure of meeting some of the gang on various occasions and in diverse places. Bumped into Ed Kcelan fleecing a junk operator in Tsingtao, Bill Grant from Erie, Pa., walking down a street in Cambridge, Mass., and Professor Matt Sullivan, D.D.S., currently of Georgetown Dental School, instructing a promising young student, Joe Daley, in the art of extracting an olive from a martini. 
"At the Na\->--ND downpour in Cleveland wc saw a good deal of Bill and Jim AfcVay from Brad­ford; Jack Herlihy, from Biltmorc Square, and Joe Gallagher from the Long Island wastelands sup­ported by "Slim Brady-* Joe Pons was unable to attend because of a lame gelding and Dave Cur-tin refused to risk his Rochester Hooper-rating to come. 
"Jack Lawler, my retiring roommate at N.D.. has proved his belief in unification of the armed forces by transferring from the Navy to the Army. His Christmas greeting bears the following address: Staff Judge Advocate Sec, FMP, APO 757, c/o Postmaster, N. Y. C. 
"Locally the Alumni Club is operating with gusto under the trapable leadership of G;orge Ferrick, president, and hustling supporters such as Johnny Docrr (late of Fordham law fame), Nick Willett— another barrister—Jack Shine, of Tonawanda, and Jim Clauss, who is now an ojficcr in a local insur­
Janu€try-February, 1951 
ance firm. Recently the Club swelled its scholarship 
fund by promoting an excursion to the Na\y game. 
"Last year I took leave of absence from the 
Kcncfick law firm in town and moved Jeanne, my 
wife, and our two daughters to Cambridge where 
I spent a leisurely year of graduate study at Har­
x-ard Law School. Wc discovered \o our delight 
that in our neighborhood in Cambridge was Bill 
Grant, '45, who was enrolled in the Business School. 
While there we ran into Henry Hixjver who was 
finishing up his law studies and Bill Carey at the 
'B' school 
"Senator Jim O'Dca's name often appeared in the Boston press while the State legislature was in ses­sion. He was praised for introducing a bill that would afford free legal counsel for indigents accused of crime in ^tassachusetts. In June of '50 I received my LL.M., and wc returned to Buffalo. Tlie year was most profitable, for in July we were blessed with the arrival of our son, Billy. 
"That about catalogues ray meetings with mem­bers of the clan over the last few years. If \ou see Bill O'Conncll, Bill O'Connor, Jim Gibbons, or Harr>- Fccney around the city give them my best. I would send the same to Bcrnie Carlson but I don't expect you will sec much of him for the next few months inasmuch as he was married recently and is likely busy getting settled." 
A note, too, from another member of the nomi­nating committee. John Lynch. This ii to advise that he and the family are well, and send greet­ings. And if you are wondering when his next stor>­will appear, tn-' the next few issues of the "New-Mexico Review." And other magazines, too, of course. Never pass a by-line yoti might overlook a friend. 
And yet another note, this one from Tom O'Reilly, on what color paper would you expect but green? 
"Sorr\' that I haven't a great deal to report, but am very happy to advise, however, that on Sep­tember Dth I was married to Jeanne Shctcron. Jeanne was alr,o a member of St. Patrick's Parish in Fort Wayne, and graduated from Stenna Heights, College. My brother. Bob, class of '43, was the best man. 
"As concerns other Fort Wayn^ men. class of '44, I sec Dick Docrmcr and Dan McDonald quite fre­quently. Dick is practicing law and Don is holding forth with the McDonald banking institution. I sec John (Slats) Slater on occasions. As you probably know, he is now working out of Fort Wayne with Standard Oil. Had a note from Ted Toole at Christmas time. Ted was anticipating a recall to ac­tive duty with the Marines." 
What follows next is indescribable. It is not a letter, or a newspaper, or a house organ, but something resembling all three. It is a one-page spread of collected trivia with the banner, "Lcary times," and is edited by Warren "Duke" Leary, with some distaff assistance from the missus. It would be great sport to quote Duke at length, but there is entirely too much to encompass in this sliort space. At any rate, here are a few samples: 
"The Lcars' Jr., [lacked up young Mike, drove to Minneapolis, wined and dined at Charlie's and Sheik's with Dorothy and Tom Nolan of Minneapo­lis, and Marg and Lou Sduntz of Willmar, Minn., last F^ruary. The result was a rousins Notre Dame reunion. After watching the Lakers trounce Phila­delphia, the Learys struggled home through a rag­ing snowstorm." 
A little later this appears: "W. D. Leary, Sr., looked up his son's N.D. classmate Bcmie Bowliag early this month in Louisville, while on a five-day tour of distilleries (that's right) as a representative of the Wisconsin Press Assn. Came home cold sober, too." And still further: "Where is Arthur Anbeser McCratfa? Regaling the gals who Svork by Ben­dix?' Flexing the beer-pull at Logansport? Or may­hap back among 'The Old Breed'?" John LyncJi's family comes in for another mention, and so docs John Hunt's. Duke challenges the latter "Our boys can lick your boys." 
A letter from I^iul Lally gets the column back on the right track. Paul would like first of all to pass on some word afiout cla::smatc Bill White, and it is worth heartening to: 
"Bill was injured in the last war, leaving him 
paralyzed from the hips down. 
"What h nnteworthy about Bill's case is what be has done about it. First he learned to walk, next drive a car, and this past January to take fab bar exam. He also supervised the construction of his home, which is a mixlel for paraplegics. 
*"BiII has done all this under some trying circum­stances. He lost his mother two years ago and, this past January, his father. 
"I thought you and our classmates would like to hear about Bill who has done so much under such adversity. He is the personification of Notre Dame courage." 
Paul reports on others as well: "Henry Pyne, who IS married, has a son, and lives down the street from me; and Laning ("Itchy") Wdtber, who is also married, the father of a daughter, and who comes to Milford quite often. 
"Being a Kentuckian, I imagine you know all about Bemie Bowling. He calls about twice a year to make up for his lack of letters. 
"For myself, I'm married and the father of three swell daughters, Patty, VA; Mary, 2'/'2, and Mar­garet, 10 months. I'm in the shoe business.'^ Which saves shooting craps? 
And finally a copious letter from James Newman, which reads: 
"I'm here in Chicago, now doing graduate work in history at the University of Chicago. After I left N.D. in '46, I went to the U. of Minnesota for a year of graduate work, then taught a year at the College of St. Tliomas, in St. Paul, then returned to Minnesota again as a teaching fellow in the Histor)* Department. 
"I left there in January, '49, when my father died. Spent the next year and a half at home, working on his estate, and have been here since. While at Minnesota, I saw Dick Ames and Tex Pequignzy occasionally. I understand that Tex has 
Miami Club's Officers and Guesf 
George Brautigam, Director; Fred Jones, Jr., Sec; Faris Cowart, Pres.; Andy Gusta&on, Miami U. Football Coach; Hugh McManigal, V.P.; Walter D. Rowlands, Board Chairman; I. I. Probst, Director; Mike Zorovich, V.P. 
'37 
interested the Benedictines at St. Jolin's CoUege­
\*ille,'and Dick is now at the U. of Pennsylvania 
working on his Ph.D. That is second-hand, so I 
hope I have it right. I also saw a lot of Father 
Joe PoH-en, C.S.C. who has been teaching at St. 
Thomas and doing graduate work in histor\- at 
Minnesota the past few years. He made a lot of 
friends for himself and for Notre Dame at both 
places. 
".^t home 1 saw Dr. Tom Mangan of our class 
s.e%cral limes. He was, practicing medicine at Forest 
City, Iowa, but has recently been recalled to, ac­
tive ser\-ice. I heard at Christmas tliat he is now in 
Hawaii. 
"When I first came to Chicago. J. H. Johnston 
was here in the Engh'sh Department and I sau- him 
a great deal. He married .^gncs Haney, and they 
now have a young son. 
"I was in New York last fall for a weekend and 
spent a day with Ed Meagher. I discovered just 
before I left that Gcrr>- Hoguc is back in New-
York and xvas sorr>' to miss seeing him. Lyie Joyce 
is still in Paris at the Sorbonne. but expects to get 
his degree tliis year. Kelly Cook is in Sioux City, 
Iowa. I keep hoping to get out there for a visit 
but haven't yet. j€>e Lanigan is reported in Spain 
to join the Carthusians, and Bob Cullen is mar­
ried and living in northern New York. 
'*I had more news than I thought I did wlicn I 
started. Only hope that tliis will encourage some 
letters from my delinquent correspondents." 
A letter from evcr>body*s friend. Bill Dooley, regarding the placement scnice for Notre Dame students and alumni. If you have any suggestions, or know any companies that would br interested in taking advantage of the placement ser\ice. drop Bill a line at the University Placement Office. 
This column should open up a Ladies' Annex. And the First Lady (no offense. Eleanor) Is going to be Mrs. Charles Frances Merrill, Jr. Darned if she didn't sit down and send the class Sec. the following: 
"Dear Mr. Secretary: 
"My husband seldom lias a chance to write; but 
We both do enjoy news of the class and ficurc it i-* 
high time we contributed. [Who sa>*s a class secre­
tarv-*s lot is a thankless one? £d.1 Charlie is still in 
the Na\-v*—and expects to be until retirement time— 
and has been on duty here in Washington, D. C . 
for almost two years. It is a good life, and we arc 
busy keeping track of two Na w juniors. Charles 
Francis. Ill (3V^K and Thomas Howard (1 month). 
Would you please change your records to show 
our address here; 4fll Grecnlawn Drive. Apt. 201. 
Hyattsville. Maryland? The old one was 137 Mag­
neson Loop, Los Gatos, Calif. 
Vcr>' truly yours, 
Joan Merrill 
(Mrs. Charles Francis. Jr.) " 
Lct*s have no speculating over how Charlie is going to get along in the Na\y. .-Vnyone who can find an apartment within 50 miles of Wasliington, 
D. C , these days is either a Congressman or a vcr\­perspicacious gent. 
.And so all other business being completed, we come to the matter of class elections. It began in June, 1950. when the .\lumni Board of Directors met at the University. On July 5, through John Q. Adams, president of the Class of '26, they announc­ed the inauguration of a new plan for class elec­tions, which is designed to achieve "more effective organization of our Alumni with consequent benefits to our University." 
It was suggested that all classes elect a slate of 
officers to srrx'e five years (or. as m our c^sc. until 
the" next reunion), during which tenure they would execute "the duties and responsibilities that have formerly been carried out by the Class' Secretaries." 
Following the stegc of summer, therefore, the present 5ccretar>' picked a nominating committee of six men, sent each of them a mimeographed copy of the class roster, and asked them to make their nominations from the class at large. The offices for which the nominees were picked are as follows: 
Presidtnt: in direct contact with .-Mumni Secre­tary'; adv'ised of Alumni polic>-; coordinator of other class officers. 
Sccretar>-: will be kept pos ed on activitie> of class members by the Regional Vice Presidents. Treuurcr: funds for reunions, mailings. 
Regional Xlcc IVexidents (one for the cast, south, midwest, and far west): in touch with ever>- member of class in their region; solicit column copy; be active in placement of graduates, procurement of new students, prestige programs. 
.\nd accordingly the following slate of nominees was chosen by the nominating committee: 
President: W. BOSS and R. DOERMER; Secre­tan-: G. BARISCILLO and H. LAVERY; Treas­urer: E. ENGLERT and C. MILLER; Eastern .Vice-President: E. DOWLING and J. HICKEY; Southern Vice-President: J. G. CROU'LEY and H. ADAM; Midwestern Vice-President: R. A'HEARN and J. COKERT\'; Far West \acc-Presidcnt W. SCHEUCH and T. SHELLWORTH. 
It h an excellent slate, as anyone will affirm. The class will begin voting on it shortly, if it has not already begun to do so. The Secretary* would like to thank the nominating committee for such an excmplar>' slate and for the great time spent in the task. It is considered discreet not to name the committee in full. 
And that's that. 
1945 
Many Thanks 
To all the men of the class who have written me in the past month or so. many thanks. It has been a real inspiration to have received such a swell bunch af letters from the members of the class. There arc still many of you from whom we have not heard; and to you especially is this message addressed: We want to hear .about YOU. So sit down right now and drop Al a note. Many thanks to those wJio have cooperated. Did You Know That . . . 
Charles LaCugna will receive Ins Ph.D. in Politi­cal Science this Tune from Notre Dame .. . he is presently on th* faculty of Seattle University. . . . thai Kenny Schultz is workin-; for Caterpillar Trac­tor in Peoria, Illinois . . . t'iat his wife and little son can be verx- proud since Ken just recently pass­ed the slate exam for a registered engineer. . . . Frank J. Curran is in h'ts third year at ilic Col­lege of Physicians and Surgeoni at Columbia Uni­versity in New York .. . he expects to receive his 
M.D.
 in June. 1952. . . . Frank xva-. seen at Com­munion Breakfast the N.D. Club of New York had recently, and is still ver>' much single. . . , Johnny Mack, Jr., is working as salf-s representative for Inland Steel Company .. . he ha-, one daughter and the stork is exnerted to pay another visit this month. . . . l\'ahcr McDcrmolt is living in Kenosha, W^js., now. with his family of three bo\-s and one Httle girl. . . . Bill Grant has been attending the How­ard Business School in Cambridge. Mass. since 1949 and expects to graduate with an M.B.A. in June of this year. He and his wife. Mar\- Agnes, expect a "little Grant'' to ioin the family in .AugiLst. . . . Edward G. Forticr, M.D.. has completed one year of internship and a two year residcncv* in pe­diatrics at Cook County Horpital in Chicago. . . . he i^ awaiting a call to militarv' ser\'icc in March and would like to hear from Bob Murphy of South Bend. . . . Bob Maddrn is now associated with the Kansas City Terminal Warehouse Company, and also representative of the Lawrence Warehouse Sys­tem of San Francisco. Bob says he sees a great deal of Bob R*ardon. . . . Dave Walsh is now an engineer at the Bureau of Standards in Washington. 

D.
 C. He and his wife haie two loiely boys. Mark and Kevin. . . . Jim Cl\-ncs is living at the Cor-, nell Club in New York City and has been practicing law with Wise, Corlett. and Canfield of the Chanin Building in New York. He sees Harry Walters, Bob Rossiter, Bill Fiizharris, Bob Walsh, Jim Donnelley, and others - of the class. Jim would like to know the whereabouts of his old roommate Jack Clears­.. . my records have him listed as livin*: at 260 .\farIborough Road, Brooklyn. N. V. . . . Kenneth Kehl, D.D.S.. is practicing dentistry" in Chica'^o .. . he is expecting active duty any month (he holds a captaincy* in the Rescr\es). . . . Ken often wonders what hapoened to many of the old pre-nieds of '45 such as Brook L>-nch, Mik* Coffey, Stu Bsrden. and many others. . . . Our old XROTC buddy. Bill Mtrarc, is a married man as of Decem­ber 2nd. having Tom Nolan as best man . . .Tom came all the way down from Chicago for tUc wed­ding. Bill's wife is a graduate nurse from Elizabeth General Hospital and hails from Manville, New Jer­sey. Bill is working for Research Corp.. and just received a promotion to the post of sales engineer and sales coordinator for that firm. . . . Larry Romagosa, Box 3393, Panama City. Panama, is now sales manager of the largest coffee roasting com­pany and on; of the largest wholesale liquor com­panies in Panama .. . he is a partner in this business, and was married two years ago—but no "muchachos" as yet .. . he will be glad to sec any of the gang of 45 in Panama. . . . Ra%-mond 


Midiok, M.D., is currently in orthopedic residency at the Columbia Hospital in Milwaukee, Wis. He expects to be in the Air Corps in June. . . . Ray sa>-s he would like to hear of Herb Zeigler, Ray Baddour, and Frank Pendar\-is .. . a part of his wish can be answered if Ray reads the "Mailbag" below . . . this column depends on only YOU for its news, so please cooperate!! 
Mailba? 
"Letters From" Dept.: From Harry Berliner: '"The ALUMNUS came today with your good report of our friends. This is one of the best ALUMNUS' I've received. On Jan­uary 11 we were blessed with another baby, Mar\' Catlierinc. We already have an ll-montli boy, Har­old, III. Give my best regards to the rest of the class." 
From Tom Nolan: "Bill Moore of our class was 
married to Miss Luc>' Bellomo in Manville, N, J., 
on December 2 of last year. Bill and his brid** spent 
a two-week honc\-moon in Lake Placid^ N. Y., be­
fore returning to Bntind Brook. N. J., where they 
will live. Bill was kind enough to ask mc to be 
Best Man. 
"Since Christmas eve. Miss Jeanne Smith of Chi­
cago has been wearing an engagement ring, a pres­
ent from me, with the wedding set for late in 
June." 
From Ret-. Charles Dclaney, C.S.C: "Thanks a lot for the nexvs of the class. I was ordained a priest for the Congregation of Holy Cross in June of 1949. My first and present assignment is at St. George's College. .\vcn:da Pedro de Valdivia 1423. Santiago. Chile, South America. I teach English and am in charge of sports. We have both intra-miiral and inter-scholastic programs for the boys. This coming year wc hone to have basketball, soccer. Softball, tennis, volleyball, and track. Hope the cla";s keeps up the excellent spirit of keeping you informed." 
From Ray Baddaur: "At pr-sent I am extracting a Doctor of Science decree from M.I.T.. which I plan to have by June of 1951. After graduation I have passage to Europe where I plan to spend an enjoyable 2Yz months. After the varation I'll have no more excuses for ntt going to i»"ork. so I suppose I'll have to get a job . . . but I have made no decisions so far as to what kind of w<»rk it will be. 
*'I was delighted to sec that some of the '45's made the five-year rcnnion; I only wish that I couH also. I can only say that I will do my best to make the next one in 1955. 
**Saw some of the class members i-i N'*w York last year, I esprcially remember seeing John Caron. Say 'hello' to everyone for me." 
From Jim Schaeffer: "Thought youM like to knttw that I was married in October of last year. My brother, Cbar!es, '52. was my best man. and Bob Oi'cey, '37, was one of the ushers. I am presently with General Electric Supply Corporation. 
From Thorn Bergin: "Some of the fellows in our class were a little bit annoyed over the fact that I was not here for the reunion after having writ­ten them several times encouraging them to come. Naturally I would like to have been here and felt badly when I found that it was going to be im­possible. 
"At present I am .\ssistant Professor and As­sistant Head of the Department of Business Admin­istration at Notre Dame." 
[Your secretar'.' knows that Tom actually did a great deal of work as chairman of the 5-year re­union. It is a shane that after so much prepara­tion for the event it was impassible for him to be present.] 
From Enriqu? Lul!i: "I have been working for Compania Antonio Lulli. Soc, Anon. Lima, Peru, since I94G. H^d some correspondence with George Despot, Joe Menez, Ernie Rauscber and a few others. I certainly would enjoy a visit from anyone of the class. Will paint the town red with the first to drop by. Father Cunningham passed by here last vear and wc had a most enjoyable time. I see Eric Rev ds Castro, Raul Ibansz, Louis Palluis regularly. Best greetings to all from *Coc3' Lulli." 
From Rudy Anderson: "I am married to Helen O'Donncll, sister of Dan Q'Donnell, '45. and we have a little girl almost one year old, I have been working for the Department of Justice. Claims Divi­sion, Patent Section, as a Patent Attorney. Dan O'Donnrll and I arc both in Patents; Larry Winters is with a patent firm here in Washington, as is Clayton Toddy." 
From Ernie Rauscher: "I am working for Ameri­can Colortype Company at 200 Fifth Avenue, New 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

York City. I was married on June 10, 1950, and took a Notre Dame honeymoon to show the wife ''our*' school. Joe SyK-ester is now an insurance man, works at Rockefeller Plaza in N.Y.C. Rudy Lop£Z is head coach at Nonterrey Institute of Tech­nology in Mexico. He is married and has a little girl and they are very happy. Last year Rudy's team won the Industrial Bowl game. Pat Mazza li<u been a M.D. since June. Greg Rice works in this ^ame building for Louis Marx, the toy king. Frank Ruggierio is coach at Orange High School in New-Jersey and is a proud papa. Hope to see you or any of tlie boys of the class who are in the city for lunch. You can get me bv plume on ORcgon 5-3100." ' . 
From Brathrr Auguslus Patin, C.S.C: *'I am now a Brother of Holy Cross at work here in Milwau­kee at St. Charles Boy's Home. I sure appreciate reading about some of the others of our class. Tell ihe boys lo keep up their enthusiasm and may you all have a Blessed New Year." 
From Paul W, Smith: "Well, since you do not know what has happened to us, let me tell you of the wonderful things that have filled our life in the past year. First off, I take it that you already know about our expectancy. *IT' (as we call it) it due sometime about the first of Februar>-. 
''The second bit of news is concerning this Southern Oxygen Supply Company letterhead. That's right, you guessed it—I have gone into business for myself, as a distributor for National Cylinder Gas Company here in Atlanta, Georgia. I have a partner in the business. We got started in this ven­ture, September 15, 1950, and so far have done ver>' well. Believe it or not, we showed a net profit at the end of the year, which is pretty good for a new-business.*' 
From Bill Quinn: "Been married since September. 1948. Our son. Billy, is now one year old and al­ready he is being groomed for Notre Dame, class of '68. 
"W^as with Jim Atkinson, Kc^in Carly, Art Mur­phy, Joe Dittrick, Jack Dillon and Jim Sheridan at the recent N.D. Communion breakfast here in New York. We aUo got together at Joe Dittrick's house in GardenCity, N. Y., for New Year's eve." Bugle Call: 
Some of the men of the class have been called up to active duty recently. Here are some of the letters which have been received: 
From Mrs. Edw-ard A laRocque: '*I am taking this opport'.inity to give you my son's address. Ed­ward has been in the ser\-ice sine October 3rd. He is now in Pusan. Korea. His address is Edward A. LaRocque, Ll. (j.g) U.S.N.,. R-4792I9, USS LST 802, c/o FPO San Francisco, California." 
From BUI Klem: "As you see by the above ad­dress, I have just been recalled to active duty with the Naxy—October to be exact. I have not run into any other N.D. man, but can report that Don Claeyes, J. D. Usina, and Bill Pfistcr are also back in and scattered over various parts of the globe." (Bill's address is William H. Klem, ht. (is.) USS Rich, DDE 820, FPO, New York, New York.) 
From Joe Guzzitto, Jr.: "As of January 15, 1951, I'll be on active duty as a dental officer in the USNR. Best regards and wishes to you and to all the class." 
From Jim Andrews: "I have recently re-joined the armed 5er\'ices, this time in the Air Force, and for the present am stationed at Andrews Air Force Base. Station Infirinar>-, Washington 25, D. C, c/o I050tli Medical Group. Prior to this, and subse­cpient tu completion of internship at St. Joseph's Ifospital, Lexington. Kentucky. I had been in resi­dency training in dermatology at the University of Virginia Hospital in Charlottesville. Virginia. Will be happy to get together with old classmates here­abouts in Washington, D. C," 
From Elmer Gillespie: "By the end of June, the internship was completed and my call to active duty iu the Air Force was in effect. The wife and I drove from Washington to San Francisco for further assignment. Enroute, we spent a weekend in South Bend and the campus but were disappointed in not seeing a soul we knew. From San Francisco we drove to my first station, Elmendorf Air Force Base, Alaska, via the Alascan Highway, making* the 4000 miles in around 12 days. 
"One of my first greetings up here in winterland was from Capt. Bob Hughes, ex-'45, also on duty as a medical officer with the 39tli Medical Group. Before long the two of us hope to find a few other Notre Dame men up here and form a Far North Alumni Club. I surely woidd appreciate Iiearing 
January-February, 1951 
from some of the old gang and promise to be more 
prompt in my correspondence in the future." ]EI­
mer's address is Capt. Elmer F. Gillespie, A0976&41, 
39th Medical Group. APO 942, c/o Postmaster, 
Seattle, Washington.] 
From Bob Hughes: "I attended St. Louts Univer­sity Medical School and graduated in 1948. After interning at St. Mary's Group of Hospitals (1948­49), I entered the U.' S. .Air Force. While passing through Seattle on my way up here last May, I met Pat Sutherland, who completed his freshman year with tJie class of ^45 before transferring to the Uni­versity of Washington. Pat has since completed law-school at U. of W. and' is now practicing law in' Seattle. Incidentally, he i^ a Rrprcsentative in the Washington State Legislature." [Bob's address is Capt. Robert G. Hughes, 39th Medical Group, APO 942, c/o Postmaster, Seattle, Washington.] 
From Bill Wrapc: "1 am now in the U. S. Navy on the USS New Jersey (BB62) as a 3rd Division and Turret .\o. 3 Officer since October 25, 19^. Prior to that I was working as a plant engineer at the W. R. Wrape Stove Co., Little Rock, Ark. Hope to hear from some of the boys." [Bill's ad­dress is William R. Wrape, Lt. (j.g.) US.N'R, USS .New Jersey, BBG2, c/o FPO New York, N, Y.] 
The '45 SPOTLIGHT 

The '45 class spotlight is focused this issue on Thomas F. X. Vail of R.D. No. 1, Wappinger Falls, New York. Tom can best be remembered as the popular mailman of Sorin Hall, and as an under­graduate electrical engineering laboratory' instructor. He taught night daises of the University's War Program during his last year at school, and ser\*ed as the student president of the Institute of Electri­cal Engineers' local branch. 
Tom was born in Poughkcepsie, N. Y., on August 
1. 1924. He attended Arlington High in that city where he was active in the band, French club, the school paper, track team, student government body, and the yearbook. He graduated with the Honor Key from Arlington. 
In September of 1942 he entered Notre Dame where he continued his spirited participation in many campus activities. Some of us remember him in particular because of his band-playing. His loud "oomp-pah-pahs" o.-i the string bass and bass horn used to shake the seats of the stadium during the home games. Tom remembers fondly that he had two swell roommates, Leon Larocque and Joe Incc. He liked the Electrical Engineering lab as his favor­ite campus haunt, and of course the Huddle. 
On October 19, 1946, Tom married Miss Evelyn 
K. Miller, and they are now the proud parents ol a 5-months old boy, Thomas Michael. To Tom, 
HD Coaches at NCAA 
Coaches (and others) pictured on page 14, left photo, are: 
FIRST ROW: Ed Krause, Lancaster Smith, Jesuit High, Dallas; Jinunic Phe­lan, Buck Shaw, San Francisco 49ers; Joe Bach, St. Bonaventure; Jim Swift, Foun­dation Governor for Texas. SECOND ROW: Earl Brown, formerly of Auburn; Ed Haggar, of Dallas; Bemie Witucki, Tulsa U.; Gene Oberst, John Carroll; Bob Walsh, Toledo U.; Harry Wright, former­ly of Portland U.; Bob Maddock, Mis­
souri. 
RIGHT PHOTO, FIRST ROW: Dr. Lloyd Bellamy, Vice-President of the Dal­las Alumni Club; Frank Leahy; Rev. The­odore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, Executive Vice-President of the University; Hugh Devore, NYU; Joe Reutz, formerly St. Mary's (California); Joe Kuharic, San Francisco. SECOND ROW: George Mcl­inkovitcfa, formerly Utah State; J. M. Haggar, Dallas; Tom Heamdon, St. Nor­bsrt's; Larry Mullins, Kansas State; Jim Walsh, Dallas Alumni Club President; Jim Leonard, Villanova; Tom Lieb, Alabama; Andy Pilney, San Francisco. 
who used to orias as so indi.pfeMre by ing our mail in Sofia, we vriik tW best off ladt; to fail family, our ftieadlint of wiilies. 
YOUR SECRETAIIY KUOKTS: 

There can be no greater encoaragemeat for aK, eflbrt that is put iato this columa iliaa the t]Fpr of response that the class of *45 has shows tWae past few months. With some of the. Bea. going back into uniform, with the class spread out throo^MNSt ' the nation, and some thiougboat all.parts of the-world, it is important that we have-a "deariag­house" for news. The «^t"mn will be just that. So don't hesiute to sciul in any small item about your-' self, or about any other of the gang of '45. 
Your Class Secretary: AI Ltimrt, fil-Jfi 82KI St., Ehnhurst, N. Y. 
1947 
From Joe Dittrick: 
Alumni Association 
Notre Dame, Indiana . . 
Dear Secretary Resistance to your column seems ever mountiag doubtless due to the many fellows who would rather read about former mates than, write about any of. their own activities. Exi^o, thu attempt by an of* fender to gain respite from a gmlty consdeacc. 
Recently had the opportunity of grcetias a covey. of the Notre Dame clan, which should prove of Is­terest to many class readers. The occasitm was my fourth consecutive New Year's- party, a soiree of~ about half a hundred exuberants gathered to riag in the New Year with spirit(s). Included in the' fracas were John Danfeavy, Jnn Sherklan, At San­tangdo, Jim Athimoa, Gharfie Koegfer, BOI QMBB, Artie Murphy and their very lovely wives: abo Kev­in Carley, Jack OiUon, To a Molloy, Jokn Nortoi^ George Barsa, George Conway and Lcn Hart, the latter group belonging to the rapidly diminithiag 
N. D. bachelor standard bearers in the Long Island area. Al Santaogo and Lcn Hart, a couple of beer salesmen (Rheingold versus Miller's High Life)/set the pace. Waxing enthusiastic, this pair in an effort to promote their sales, covered all available wall space with sales media. Jofcn Norton presn-vcd an acxrount, of the proceedings on film. He, tnci­dentally, is scheduled to take the nuptial walk Jan­uary 20th in Sacred Heart Chuirh, on tfae'canqpos. 
Kev Carley is still a 'creflit* to Dun & Brad­street. Bill Qmiui, proud p^ a of Billy, Jr., is with the Englander Company, a widely known bedding and mattress firm. 
Art Murphy is directing operations tn Muiphy's Storage Warehouse—he's developed into quite a corporate figure! Jim AtkiMon is pushing Powers Regulator products, and for six months has prom­ised lunch on the expense tab—I*m starving! 
Jim Sheridan now nuungCB a real estate office in Queens Village. (Havendale Realty Company.) 
Charlie Koegler and Jack DiUon are stiU booit­ing Kaiser-Frazier sales; Charlie is s&les manj^^ for a local * distributor. 
As for myself, I*m now engaged to a lovely lass,. Mary Cuff, and hoping to make a beautiful June-groom. Business-wise I'm associated with a local wholesale house (Mineola Plumbing Stqtply Co.), and faced with the task of formulating ciMiqiany policy in these times of critical material shortages. 
In closing I want to wish the new class aluraai xrcretary best of luck.--and hope this little tid-. bit will prove a vote of confidence frmn these hinterlands. 
Sincerely, 
Joe Dittrick, *47 

1949 
Here's some news from kind *49rrs who droiiped us a card. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jolm J. Marget report the arrival. of a son, Michael Riley Marget, January 17, at Carroll, Iowa. *^ '^. 
Paul Kennedy is back in the service ^[ain. After * graduation Paul joined Marsh & McClimion, a firm of imurance brokers here in Chic^o. 
Tom McNally and BUI Lyaan have left the "Southtown Economist" for a leisurely trip throiqjli ^ Europe. 
Don Smyth writes from Orlando, Florida, that he has become engaged to Miss Elaine M. Vevem. 
Grocge Fraaer of New Rochelle, New York, hm also taken the plunge and reports his ragageaieBt ­In Miss Dolores Theme Fox. 
Mr.. Edward. J, ../rracey-J r . 12^7 Old Eoaloburg Rd.. 
Universal Notre Dame Night 
MONDAY, APRIL 2, 1951 
EVERY ALUMNUS A CONTRIBUTOR IN 1951 
There is no better time nor means to tell the world of Notre Dame's needs for help in training moral, re­sponsible leaders than through the Alumni Club gatherings of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
The national and world crises have created a crisis at the University. Help is needed, urgently—NOW— in meeting the expanding utility program to provide facilities for four new buildings. Heat, water, sewage facilities are unglamorous aspects of Q University's overall needs. But they must be provided this year. Father John H. Murphy, C.S.C, Vice-President in charge of Public Relations amply covered Ihs subject in the last issue of the ALUMNUS. 
The Foundation Committee of the Alumni Board of Directors prints its report on page 5 of this issue and lists seven points on which the 1951 Foundation drive is based. They are repeated here: 
1.
 Seek at once 100% alumni participation by each Alumni Club. 

2.
 Plan campaign for each Alumni Club, Feb. 1 to April 30. Campaign to be conducted by the Alum­ni Club. 

3.
 Adopt slogan for Universal Notre Dame Night ceremony. "EVERY ALUMNUS A CONTRIBUTOR." 

4.
 Set quota for all Alumni Clubs and for each individual Alumni Club through cooperation with each Alumni Club President. 

5.
 Submit proposed original plan for Alumni Club campaign to each Alumni Club President at once, re­questing interim report April 2 and final report April 30. 

6.
 Establish direct contact between Alumni Execu­tive Director, James E. Armstrong and campaign chair­man of each Alumni Club, for purpose of control and efficiency. 


7. Also suggest Alumni Club organize small non-Alumni contributions through special committees of Alumni Club members on basis of industries and pro­fessions. 
The need for moral, responsible leaders is recog­nized not only by the University, but by secularly trained individuals. Two such opinions, separate but relevant, can state the problem: 
"Our knowledge of science has clearly outstripped our capacity to control it. We hove too many men of science; too few men of God. We have grasped the mystery of the atom and rejected the Sermon on the Amount. 
"Man is stumbling blindly through a spiritual dark­ness while toying with the precarious secrets of life and death. 
"The world has achieved brilliance without wisdom, power without conscience. Ours is a world of nuclear giants and ethical infants. We know more about war than we know about peace, more about killing than we know about living. This is our 20th Century's claim to distinction and to progress." * 
"Our moral crisis grows out of the fact that there has been developing an ever more serious and danger­ous cultural and moral log between man's progress in the physical sciences and his lack of comparable pro­gress in the human and social sciences. 
"We have failed in the human and moral sciences to create the social mechanism and the sense of moral responsibility necessary to translate achievement in the physical sciences into tangible social and moral achievement in the human sciences." ' * 
Gen. Omor Nelson Bradley, U. S. Army'Chief of Staff. 
* Waller P. Reuther, President, United Auto Workers. 





