The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
If 

This book is not to be taken from the Library 
U/>e 

Notre Dame ALUMNUS 
JOHN T . BALFE, PH.B. COM., '20 
Catholic Leader > 
Notre Dame Leader 
Business Leader 

April, 1935 
n» 

ITS nUTEH BEAUTY HEFLECTS ITS IWEH UUALIT\ 
Chevrolet has given as much care to the manufacture of hidden parts as to the fashioning of the bodies of this aristo­crat of low-priced cars. Careful selection of materials—precision engineering—and rigid inspections—assure sterling quality all the way through. When you buy a Master De Luxe Chevrolet, you may expect performance that equals its beauty . . . comfort and safety fully as advanced as its streamline styling. The prices are an added inducement to choose Chev­rolet for quality at low cost. 
CHEVROLET MOTOR CO.. DETROIT, MICH 
Can-.pare Chevrolet'h /ow delivered price>-and eaf^ 0 ^ A ^ 
 MaOtr Dm Liam Tmm Stimm 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES £. AIUISTROXG, '25. The masrazine is published monthly durinp the scholastic year by the Alumni Association Member of the American of.the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 
Editor Alumni Council. 
. a year; the price of sinele copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of S5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 
WILLIAM R. DOOLEY. '26. Member of Nafl. Catholic 
1923. at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1879. All Associate Editor correspondence should be addressed to The Notre D.ame Alumnus. BQTZ SI. Notre Dame. Ind. Alumni Federation 
VOL. XIII APRIL, 1935 No. 7 
DEATH TAKES FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH, '90 
Former President of University, Foremost Catholic Orator, Inspiring Friend of all Notre Dame Men, is Buried Amidst Impressive Services. 
He was a great president, a great orator. He wrote beautifully and spoke charmingly. His delightful hu­mor would fill books. His learning was unbounded and deep. 
Yet "Cavvy"—and there is no ir­reverence here—was immeasui-ably more than that to eveiy Noti'e Dame man, of the past, the present and even the future. 
He was their friend, their ever­lasting, inspiring friend. 
Hundreds of these Notre Dame men knew it—and the letters and tel­egitims show well they knew it. 
Other thousands didn't realize it for they never met the man of whom the Religious Bulletin said: "No man ever loved Notre Dame more pas­sionately than Father Cavanaugh." 
Yet these thousands were just as truly Father Cavanaugh's friends as the wide circle of his intimates. In his gi"eat heart Notre Dame men were enshrined. 
So it is that Notre Dame men evei-ywliei'e are sad today at the thought that Father John W. Cava­naugh, C.S.C, '90, president of the University from 1905 to 1919, is dead. He died in the Community In­fii-mary (formerly St. Joseph's No­vitiate) on Friday, March 22, at 5:30 in the evening, the second "good Notre Dame man to depart this world that week; the first was Joe Sullivan. 
Father Cavanaugh was buried on Tuesday, March 2C, in the cemeterj­of the Congregation of Holy Cross on the Notre Dame campus. 
The simple service at the grave marked the close of ceremonies which began in Sacred Heart church at nine o'clock in the morning when the com­munity assembled to chant the office of the dead. 
This was followed by a Solemn Eequiem Mass celebrated by the Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C, provincial of the Order of Holy Cross, with the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, presiding. The Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, acting presi­dent of Notre Dame, was deacon, and the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, sub-deacon. 
Other members of the hierarchy in the sanctuar>' to pay their last respects to Father Cavanaugh were the Jlost Rev. Joseph Ritter, D.D., 
F.\TIIER JOII.N- C.WAXAUGH 
May He Rest In Peace. 

Bishop of Indianapolis; the Most Rev. Joseph Schrembs, Bishop of Cleve­land; and the Most Rev. Philip Mc-Devitt, D.D., Bishop of Harrisburg; the Most Rev. Karl Alter, D.D., Bish­op of Toledo; and the Most Rev. Michael James Gallagher, D.D., Bish­op of Detroit. 
Since Saturday afternoon the body had lain in state in the Administra­tion Building of the University and thousands of persons knelt in prayer beside the simple black casket. Day and night, a constant procession of 
FATHER CAVANAUGH MEMORIAL SUPPLEMENT 
will be the Feature 
of the 
MAY ALUMNUS 
—The Editors students, alumni, friends and reli­gious filed past the body to pay hom­age to one of Notre Dame's greatest presidents. Religious, students and lay professors had, in turn, formed a constant guard of honor at his bier. 

Telegrams and messages of con­dolence poured by hundreds into the University from all over the land. Among them were words of sympa­thy from President Roosevelt, Arch­bishop Amleto Cicognani, Apostolic Delegate, and from almost every member of the hierarchy in America. 
At the services the sanctuary and body of the church were crowded with eminent clergj-men and with men prominent in the business and industrial life. 
Bishop Noll delivered a brief eulogy after the funeral JIass, saying in part: 
"It is only by a great exception that a tradition and a i-ule of the Holy Cross Congregation permits a sermon to be preached at the ob­sequies of one of its members. The exception in this instance does not nullify a tradition or that rule. Many of vou who are gathered here this morning to pay your last tribute and respects to Father Cavanaugh probably knew hira in many aspects better than I, but I knew him in other respects better than you. 
"My acquaintance with him ex­tends back forty years, and this ac­quaintance developed into a warm friendship which on his part was manifested to me in many ways. You knew hira as the genial gentleman, the scatterer of sunshine in whose warmth and rays you regaled your­selves. You knew him as a profes­sor and president of Notre Dame Uni­vei-sity, as a profound scholar, as the wise counsellor, as the builder of character, as an extraordinary ad­ministi-ator. 
"You knew him as a pulpit orator of unusual ability. I knew him as an editor whose facile pen, steered by a brilliant mind, wrote com-incingly, entertainingly, and interestingly. knew him as the serious religious in­tent primarily on his own sanctifica­
178 The 'Notre 'Dame oil umnu s April. 1935 tion, as a religious consecrated to Al­
mighty God by the vows of poverty, IMPORTANT CHANGES FOR CURRICULUM 
chastity, and obedience, vows which detached him from the world and which stimulated him to the pursuit of higher things. It knew him as a priest, and it was particularly in his priesthood that he found satisfac­tion. . . . 
"Father Cavanaugh's answer to enemies of the Catholic Church and Christianity was 'Show me your fruits.' Show me a single accomplish­ment or achievement conformable in the slightest degree to those of the institution which you oppose. Show me a civilization you have cultured, a republic you have founded, a cathed­ral you have erected, a service station you have built for the sick, for the aged, or the poor or the widow or the orphan or the outcast. Show me the art you have developed, the pic­ture you have painted, the master­piece you have conceived. To your credit belong only the French revo­lution, the Bolshevism of Russia, the diabolical satanism behind the Mexi­can persecution, the hatred which produces wars, the materialism which breeds depressions'." 
"The philosophy of infidelity," said the Bishop, "is death, that of Chris­tianity, life. Father Cavanaugh was wont to remind the unthinking that the most outstanding fact before men was not death but life, a fact preached more loudly by nature than by religion. We die to live more per­fectly, death being only the door to a fuller life." 
Born in Leetonia, Ohio, May 21, 1870, Father Cavanaugh entered Notre Dame after his primary and secondary education in parochial schools. Ordained in 1894, he became an associate editor of The Ave ilaria, and served in that capacity until he was named to the presidency of Notre Dame in 1905. For seven years prior to that he was also superior of Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame. Serv­ing until 1919, he held the office long­er than any of the presidents of Notre Dame with the exception of its founder, the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., whose incumbency lasted from 1842 to 1865. 
Father Cavanaugh spent a year in Washington as professor of English at Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C., after which he returned to Notre Dame to begin an 11 year per­iod as professor of English at the University. 
In 1921, Father Cavanaugh re­ceived the degree. Doctor of Divinity, from the University of Ottawa, and that of Doctor of Laws from Notre Dame. 
As an author. Father Cavanaugh wrote Priest of the Holy Cross and The Modesty of Culture, as well as numerous pamphlets and articles. He was the co-editor of a biography of the late Knute K.- Rockne. 
Aero-engineering 
As predicted in recent news re­leases from the Universitj-, a four-year course in aeronautical engineer­ing will be inaugurated by the Notre Dame College of Engineering next September. The progi-am in detail will appear in the next general bul­letin now on the University Press which will be available for mailing later in the spring. The progi-am will be the result of conferences held by the President of the University, the Dean of the College of Engineering, and a committee of facultj- members, with a number of nationally known technical and commercial experts in aeronautics. The first two years of the course will be quite similar to the first two years of the pi-esent course in mechanical engineering. The Uni­versitj' authorities are cominced of the necessitj- for all engineering stu­dents first getting the fundamental courses in mathematical and the phj'­sical sciences regardless of the field of engineering in which thej- may specialize. Such an educational point of \-iew redounds to the advantage of the student in making him more adaptable to the great varietj' of cir­cumstances under which he may find himself working later. 
Pharmacy 
Chieflj' for the benefit of students coming from the State of New York, the Department of Pharmacj' in the College of Science has recently ex­panded the pharmacj' progi-ams to meet the New York state require­ments. Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger is the Head of this Department which has for some time been a member of the American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy and which has long maintained the high standards of this association. 
Politics 
Heretofore combined with econom­ics, politics has been i-aised to the status of a department and will offer facilities for students wishing to major in that subject. Special atten­tion will be given to those preparing to take up Governmental work 


Father D'Arcy To Speak 
Rev. Martin Cyril D'Arcy, SJ., well-known philosopher and writer, will lecture in Washington Hall on Friday, April 26. 
Father D'Arcy is a graduate of Ox­ford and for many j'ears has been a lecturer in Philosophy at his alma mater. He has also been Mast-^r of Campion Hall, Oxford, since 1933. 
After having received his M.A. de­gree Father D'Arcy was ordained in 
whether national, state, or local. It is anticipated that Governmental Service will offer increasing oppor­tunities for speciallj- trained and specially qualified j'oung men. 
Architecture 
Beginning with fi-eshmen students entering next September, the Depart­ment-of Architecture in the College of Engineering will increase to five j'ears the course leading to the de­gree of Bachelor of Science in Ar­chitecture. Heretofore the Depart­ment has offered two courses, one in architectural design and the other in architectural engineering, but in conformity- with standard practices among the better schools elsewhere, the new five-j-ear course will include both engineering and design. This cliange will i-aise the already high standards achieved by this Depart­ment. 
Social Work 
The graduate curriculum in social work offered bj' the combined facul­ties of the Department of Sociologj' and the Department of Boj- Guidance has been expanded to meet the pro­fessional needs of the student pur­suing advanced work for the purpose of preparing himself for either recre­ational or case work. Fifteen special tuition scholarships are available for selected graduate students, ten of which are awarded bj' the Knights of Columbus through their national headquarters at New Haven, Con­necticut. The academic prerequisite for such scholarships is a college de­gree with at least twentj- hours of undergraduate • work in social sci­ences. The service requirements con­nected with the scholarships will be academic in nature. 
No longer will any probation work 

be offered on the undergraduate level as all professional work in this field will be offered in the graduate school. . The revised progi'am to be offered bj' the Department of Sociologj' in un­dergraduate courses %rill afford an ex­cellent preparation for the graduate 
work in the professional fields. 
1921. He attended Gregorian Uni­versity in Rome. 


J. F. Cushine Gives Lecture 
John F. Gushing, '06, donor of the John Gushing Hall of Engineering, spoke on "Marine Engineering" on March 8 before the campus Engi­neers' Club of which his son, Je'rome 
J. Gushing, '35, is president. The senior Mr. Gushing is president of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Com­pany, Chicago, and a lay ti-ustee of the Universitj'. 


NOMINATIONS OF OFFICERS PROMISE PROGRESS 
Customary Brilliant Array of Nominees Guarantees Continued Development of Association Program; Good Representation of All Association Membership on Slates. 
NOMINATIONS 1935-36 
Honorary President 

ALBERT F. ZAHM, A.B. '83, A.M. '85, M.S. '90, LL.D. '17, The Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C. 
President Second Vice-President 
FRANCIS H. McKEEVER, A.B. '03, LLB. '04, PATRICK E. BURKE, LL.B. '88, A.B. '89, 
10 S. La Salfe St., Chicago, III. 
BERNARD J. VOLL, PH.B., '17, Sibley Machine Co., South Bend, Ind. 
First Vice-President 

ALBERT J. GALEN, LL.B. '96, 435 Clarke St., Helena, Mont. 
GRATTAN T. STANFORD, PH.B. '04, 45 Nassau St., New York City. 
Merely naming the above men con­stitutes a tribute to the acumen and efficiency of the nominating commit­tees, chairmaned by Al Feeney and Al Slaggert, the former enlisting Vitus Jones and James D. Hayes, the latter supported by William Draper and John Lemmer. 
•Dr. Albert F. Zahm, one of the most brilliant alumni, is too mdely known to demand identification. Suf­fice it to say that with the advent of a course in Aeronautical Engineering being inaugurated at Notre Dame next Fall, Dr. Zahm's early experi­ments in Science Hall and his articles in the Scholastics of 50 years ago have brought him into the Notre Dame limelight again, despite his present scholarly and distinguished post in the Congressional Library. 
The presidency, presenting two candidates as the constitution com­mands, presents two men prominent and active in Middle West alumni circles. Probably both committees had in mind the practical economy of a neighboring president, where close contact is desired. 
Francis H. McKeever is a promin­ent attorney, practicing at 10 S. La Salle St., Chicago. He has been ac­tively identified with Notre Dame and the Association. He attended Notre Dame from Ireton, Iowa. The Scho­307 Camp St., New Orleans, La. 
GEORGE N. SHUSTER, A.B. '15, AM. '20, The Commonweal, New York City. 
Director for Four-Year Term 
DON P. O'KEEFE, '03, Chevrolet Motor Co., General Motors Bldg., Detroit, Mich. HENRY C. WURZER, A.B. '25, The Kahl Bldg., Davenport, Iowa. 
lastic claimed his extra-curricular talents during his school years. 
Bernard J. Voll, prominent in the civic life of South Bend, is carrying on the speaking and executive prow­ess of his Notre Dame career. As head of the Sibley Machine Co., he has made a success of his business and at the same time participated freely in the development of the St. Joseph Valley and in the social and business life of South Bend. 
For the first vice-presidency, Al­bert J. Galen, Helena, Mont, is a familiar name in alumni circles. Com­ing from a family long identified with Notre Dame and St. Mary's, his own career has brought Notre Dame prominently to the fore in the legal and political worlds of Montana. Grattan T. Stanford, present second vice-president of the Association, holds down a most important legal post in New York, as attorney for the Sinclair interests. His name, too, has been identified familiarly with the ac­tivities of Notre Dame wherever he could be of service. 
For the second vice-presidency, Pat­rick E. Burke, New Orleans, has kept alive the Notre Dame spirit in that Southern metropolis. His son, Bolan, a Notre Dame graduate, has assisted in maintaining the Burke interest and contact. On the other side of the line, George Shuster, brilliant managing editor of the Com7nonweal, keeps con­
stantly before the Notre Dame world the brilliant, Catholic reasoning that so many classmates and later stu­dents remember in the classes attend­ed and then taught by the eminent writer. 
Four years of faithful and valuable service by Eobert E. Lynch, Green Bay, as Director of the Association, come to an end, to find him happily faced with the succession to his Di­rectorate of either Don P. O'Keefe or Henry C. Wurzer. The former is in the inner circles of the Chevrolet Motor Co., in Detroit, a frequent vis­itor to Notre Dame and an active member of the Notre Dame club of Detroit. The latter is the son of the late beloved F. Henry Wurzer of De­troit. Henry is now in business in Davenport, la., but is also among the more familiar visitors to the campus, and has become active in the Notre Dame Club of the Tri-Cities as he was in Detroit. 
Ballots will be mailed before May 1. Please return them promptly, so that the results can be announced on Jime 1, at the Annual Banquet. 
Nominations for lieutenant-gover­nors of the Districts will also appear on the ballot. Vote for the one in your district only. These men serve a year as lieutenant-governors and automatically succeed to the gover­norships the following year. 
S. B. Villagers Sponsor Annual Basketball Banquet 
Notre Dame's 1935-36 basketball team will have t%vo captains, Johnny Ford, a for\vard, and Marty Peters, center. This arrangement was de­creed when eight lettermen voted at the annual testimonial dinner in hon­or of the Irish quintet in the Univer­sity dining hall. 
More than 300 fans turned out to do homage to Coach George Keogan and his squad. Included in the assem­bly were several coaches of rival in­stitutions as well as high school coaches from neighboring cities and towns. 
Peters, leading scorer on the Irish team this year with 136 points, was captain of the Spalding Institute quintet in Peoria, 111., before coming to Notre Dame. Ford, third in scoring with 100 points, is a graduate of Cathedral High in Indianapolis. Oth­er monogram winners were Joe O'Kane and John Hopkins, forwards; Don Elser, center; George Ireland, Capt. Johnny Jordan and Frank Wade, guards. Phil Kirley student manager, also received a monogram. 

Tribute to this year's team was paid by a large array of speakers. Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C, '07, acted as toastmaster at the banquet. Among the coaches giving addresses were Dr. Clifford Carlson of Pittsburgh, Tony Hinkle of Butler and Ed Krause, '34, of St. Mary's. Frank Lane and Nick, Keams, two of the country's leading net officials, also gave short talks. 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, vice president of Notre Dame, ex­pressed the University's appreciation of this year's team and warmly praised the efforts of Coach George Keogan. Timothy P. Galvin, '16, said the organization was behind George Keogan to a man and did not expect record breaking seasons year after year in view of the fact that only the best teams were played by Notre Dame. 
Others who praised the team and its coach were Leo Fischer of the Chicago Aiiicrican, Elmer Layden, '25 athletic director; Rev. Vincent Moon­ey, C.S.C., '16, South Bend C.Y.O. director; Robert Proctor, '04; Pat Flanagan, Chicago sports broadcast­er, Jim Costin, sports editor of the South Bend News-Times and Jack I<edden, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune. 
Holy Week Broadcast 
Excerpts from the hymns of Holy Week will be broadcast by the Mor­eau Seminarj' Choir over the Colum­bia Broadcasting System, Monday, April 15, from 3:45 to 4:00 p.m. The 


COMMERCE OFFERS COURSE TO ENGINEERS 
In a recent issue of a contempo­raiy alumni periodical there appeared an article announcing a new course in engineering, a course marking a progressive step in the training of candidates for that profession, a course looking to the expanding op­portunities and responsibilities of the engineer of today and of the future. Quoting from the introduction to that ai-ticle, "That the X civil engi­neer of the future will be not only a competent engineer but will equally understand the broader economic and social implications of his work and become thus a more competent exec­utive is forecast. . . . beginning next fall the school of Civil Engineering greatly broadens its scope to prepare its students for executive positions in business and in local, regional, state and national public works. . . " 
Something similar might have been said about engineering at Notre Dame some ten years ago. It has long been recognized that the engi­neer should have the fundamentals of business ti-aining, but at Notre Dame it was also recognized that it 
program will emanate from the studio on the University of Notre Dame campus through Station WSBT at at South Bend. Central Standard Time. 
FOURTH ANNIVERSARY 
KNUTE K. ROCKNE 
HIS spirit lives on. 
takes at least four years to make a technically trained engineer. In fact the trend is toward requiring a long­er period; witness the five year course in Architecture at Notre Dame. To meet the practical difficulties of the situation, the business course was not incorporated in the engineering program but was made available for those who had secured first the engi­neering degree, whether in the CiWl or other courses. 
The College of Commerce prepared a one j-ear program for graduates of engineering courses in which the suc­cessful student could earn the degree of Engineering Administrator. Minor adjustments have been made in the schedule but it still stands as offer­ing the fundamental training for ex­ecutive work necessary to make the engineer adaptable to any situation in which he may find himself. Ob­viously one year is not long enough to produce a highly refined product but equally obvious is the fact that a student with four years of technical training back of him can get the maximum benefit from the opportuni­ties offered in this one year. 
To the man in the field who knows what the possession or the lack of business training may mean to the engineer the program speaks for it­self. A brief outline of the schedule follows: 
Sem. Hrs. Accounting 1-2 S Principles and practice; corporation?, co-partnerships, and other .fomts of the business unit. 
Economics 109 3 Distribution of Wealth: Rent. Intere^Jt. profits, and wages. 
Marketing 3 3 Essentials of Advertising 
Marketing 9 3 The Law of Contracts: Corporations 
Marketing 13 3 Market Management 
Marketing 4 3 Selling and Sales English 
Marketing 10 3 Agency: Negotiable Instruments 
Finance 12 3 Public Finance 
Finance 14 3 Corporation Finance 
EIcctivGS P 
Total semester hours 3S 
All Notre Dame engineers in their regular engineering schedules get a four hour course in Engineering Eco­nomics treating of such matters as the analysis of the problem of invest­ment, interest, first cost, cost of op­eration, calculations, and engineering reports. 


BROTHER "LEEP" DIES AFTER 72 YEARS AT N. D. 
Beloved Dispenser of "Lemonade and Fours," Former Music Teacher and Sorin Associate, is Buried in His Ninety-Ninth Year After Lifetime of Service. 
Death came to Brother Leopold, C.S.C, aged 98, at 2:20 o'clock this morning as he lay on a cot in St. Joseph's hospital and fulfilled the wish he had often voiced in the last few years. 
To thousands of alumni of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame the news of the passing of the tiny, silver-haired religious man who gave 72 years of his life to the university, will come as expected hut none the less sorrow­ful information, for the oldest mem­ber of the Congi-egation of Holy Cross was known to nearly eveiy stu­dent who had studied under the golden dome. 
On Sept. 3, 1836, Joseph Kaul (as he was known in the world before the religious profession) was born in a hamlet near Heidelberg, Ger­many, the second oldest child of a family of nine. As a small boy he came to America with his parents, moving from New York to Philadel­phia, Pa., and finally to Reading, Pa. 
On his way to enter the no\-itiate at Notre Dame in July, 1863, Brother Leopold met little victorious bands of the "Boys in Blue," returning wearj' and battle-stained from the inferno of Gettj-sburg. 
With Brother Leopold's aid Rev. Edward P. Sorin, C.S.C., founder of Notre Dame, established The Ave Maria magazine. For 30 years Broth­er Leopold taught music and directed the University choir. But it was as dispenser of milk and cookies in the University candy store, a job filled for three decades, that he made mjT­iads of friends. 
Brother Leopold and Noti'e Dame grew old together. When he an-ived at the University the graduating class numbered two men. Last year there were more than 500. Twice he saw fire tear down the work of years. Twice he aided in the reconstruction. He was a storehouse of tradition; whenever anyone wished to check a date he went to Brother Leopold, whose memorj' was i-emarkable to the last although extreme age had stolen his sight and impaired his hearing. His deep, rich voice, too, was full of vigor to the verj- end. 
In the last few years the old man asked only to he allowed to rake leaves. His long-toothed wooden i-ake and the huge wheelbarrow which be­came too hea\T,' for him after a while were familiar campus objects. After his days of sen'ice were finished he sat in a little room in the Community 
By Carl E. Zimmerer, '34 

(Reprinted from the South Bend Tribune for March 11, 1935 
&» 
BROTHER LEOPOLD, C.S.C. .1 life of consecrated service. 

house, clad in a heavy overcoat even on the hottest summer days, endlessly telling his beads. And after a longer period of service than anyone else has ever rendered the University this humble man felt that he had not done enough and that he was a burden. That is why he had no wish to live to 
100. He had buried all his friends, and his days of work were over. "God has forgotten me," he used to say. He thought of living as serWng. To­day his prayer was heard. 
Brother Leopold had a sister who was a nun at St. Mary's college, but is sui-\nved only by a brother. Right Rev. Mgr. Pirman Kaul, pastor of St. Anthony's church, Lancaster, Pa. As is the custom in the congregation, no sermon will be preached at the fun­eral mass, which will be celebrated at 8 o'clock Wednesday morning in Sa­cred Heart church by Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C. Interment will be made in the community cemetery at Notre Dame. 
After a Long, Holy Life 

(Tho RcUijious Bulletin of March 13. 1935) 
Brother Leopold was buried today, in his 99th year. His was a long life, full of activit>-, yet shrouded iil shadow. 
Brother Leopold was known by generations of students by the nick­name, Brother "Leep". It was a term of aifection. It stood for gentleness, patience, simplicity, sly humor, hu­mility. 
When this Bulletin shall have come to the old students, there will flash before their minds a quaint, familiar picture—the little store, a diminutive old man, gray-headed, gray-bearded, undisturbed by the insistent din of implacable youth wanting to be sei^ved. 
He moved slowly, methodically, questioning quietly, "What will you have, sir?" 
"Lemonade and fours!" "Lemon­ade and sixes." They were served, in turn, the nickle scrupulously ac­counted for, surety demanded for the return of the heavj- glasses. 
For forty years he served the "boys" their lemonade and cakes, their candy—and tobacco (if you were grown, and had permission from • home, and the consent of authority at school, to smoke a pipe.) 
Old students returning with their young wives brought them into the "store" to see Brother "Leep." The wives had heard all about hira and his lemonade and cakes and humor and patience, a hundred times. Now they were to see him. He remembered you; perhaps the town you came from. The Lady of the house noted that! He gave her lemonade at the oil-cloth co\'ered table, "on the house." And not to be a piker, you bought twice that much in candies and cigars. 
The old man smiled inwardly. "Hon­esty is the best policy!" "Yes, gen­erosity is a pretty good policy too." Kindly Brother "Leep" tells how he had invested a free glass of his lem­onade, and it netted him a half-dollar sale in cigars. 
His familiars called him "i-ascal," "hypocrite." He smiled. He liked that. He defended his virtue to pro­voke more abuse. He got it; and smiled some more. 
He was not always in the store, however. Brother Leopold was a fine musician, a violinist. He taught mu­sic for years; and during the hours between, he set type for The Ave 
. Maria. He saAV the first issue of that magazine come from the press. 
But through all his years, he was the simple, humble, cheerful reli­gious. Virtue made him good-natured, tolerant, forgiving, slyly mischievous. He thrived on raillery; welcomed it; feared to be without it. He had stored up a head full of spiritual lore which he could illustrate with a story for every case. He had a lot of the 
(Continued on Pace 185) 

CAMPUS ACTIVITIES 
By WILLIAM H. TOUMEY '35 

STATIC South Bend natives boasting a i-eceiving set are being educated through several weekly lectures by prominent members of the faculty from the campus studio of Station WSBT. Father aiiltner and Prof. O'Grady are suffusing the locals with the philosophical aspect of current problems. Father Wenninger is add­ing the human side of the news with the latest bulletins of his science hall insects, and members of the Com­merce faculty are forming a brain trust of their own. Not to overbal­ance the programs with an avalanche of academic assets. Father Eugene Burke is turning producer and tiying to stir up some undergi-aduate con­tributions for dra]natic and humorous skits. 
After a whilwind entrance on the campus stage of activities, Shane Leslie, eminent Irish pla>^vright and author, has settled down to the pro­saic conduction of his senior classes and is also cariying on his weekly lectures to the public on Tuesday evenings in Washington Hall. To date, his most popular subjects in­clude: "Ghosts in Legend and Real­ity;" "St. Patrick's Purgatorj';" and "The Man in the Iron Mask." 
Mr. Leslie, by the waj', had not long to wait before learning the trials and tribulations of the American un­dergraduate. -A^long with several other members of the lay facultj', he attended the Junior Prom. Return­ing in the early hours of the morn­ing, he found the entrance to Dillon Hall securely locked and bolted, and stopping some passing juniors, he learned that the hall was closed for the night and the watchman was probably over in the Main Building, eating his nocturnal meal. 
He then called for suggestions and followed the instructions with surprising agility. Supported by sev­eral willing juniors who soon entered into the spirit of the thing, he was boosted up over his window ledge and into the darkness of his first floor room. 
For the Affirmative 
The University debating team, under the able coaching of speech Professor CojTie, has been enjoying the most successful season in recent years. Against such competition as Leland Stanford, Michigan State, New York University, and Alabama, the campus orators have talked their way through many winter engage­ments and are yet undefeated. 
Inspired by the success of their first men, the 'B' team traveled to a three day tournament at Manchester College and scored eight victories to win fii'st place against similar en­trants from many big ten schools and others of like calibre. 

Another Wirry 
At the annual banquet tendered the managerial force upon the con­clusion of the basketball season, George Wirry, a junior in Commerce and resident of Racine, Wisconsin, was elected head manager of the 1935 season and carries on in the work of the current manager, George Demetrio. 
The new boss is a brother of the popular 'Tony' Wirrj- who occupied the same position a couple of years back. .A.ssisting him as associate football managers, will be James Burke, of Lemoore, Cal., and Ray-• mond Kenny, a resident of Yonkers, New York. Burke succeeds Thomas Thompson as manager of the stadium personnel and Kenny will take over the work Ray Oakes as manager of the equipment. Both are juniors in the school of Commerce. 
"Packy" McFarland, lightweight contender of former years and a member of the present Illinois athletic commission, came down from Chicago on the night of JIarch 22 to officiate at the annual Bengal Bouts. 
This boxing show, sponsored by the Scholastic for the aid of the Holy Cross mission band in Bengal, saw the cream of undergraduate leather pushers sling padded mitts in all di­rections before a capacity crowd in the gj'm. 
The participants in this show were survivors of a nine week elimination tournament and the victors will be hailed as campus champions for the next year. 
Bill Sheehan, tire m-;rchant, and 'Scrap' Young, lord of the training table, assisted McFarland in the judging of the bouts. The booming voice of Coach Bill Cerney carried the weights and decisions to the far comers of the spacious gym. 
JOE A misty spring rain was falling as the campus awoke on the morning of Wednesday, March 20, but the usual early rising banter was exchanged as teeth were scrubbed and necks washed. Then the hail chapels began to fill up as morning Mass began. Rosaries and prayer books were laid aside, however, when the rectors ap­peared on the altars and began to 
speak. Annoucements were not un­common, but they were usually re-ser\'ed for breakfast, and every day now, the students were offering up novenas at their Mass for the recov­ery of Joe Sullivan. This announce­ment must be unusual. 

"Men,", the priest began, "we have just received word from New York that Joe Sullivan died about two o'clock this morning." That was all. Nothing more was expected. Joe had been reported as having only a slight chance after the third operation was necessary on Tuesday. 
The intention of two thousand prayers changed from the hope of a speedy recovery to the repose of his soul. When the celebrant came down from the altar to distribute Holy Communion, eyes were closed in the uplifted faces, but on many the tears still seeped through. Masculine af­fection for a fellow student and elected leader is that strong. 
On the way across the campus to 

the dining halls many little incidents 
of Joe's life here at Notre Dame were 
remembered and repeated. Stories 
of his studies and of his football days 
seemed only yesterday, but now he 
was gone. It seemed impossible. 
At breakfast the announcement was repeated. And all through the morning professors began their class­es with a short prayer for the man who had sat before them only a month before. At noon the rain ceased, but it had continued unno­ticed for five hours now. 
In the afternoon the Religious Bul­letin appeared and told the story of Joe's last hour. Father Dolan, last year's prefect of discipline, had been at his bedside and led the family through the prayers for the dying. Notre Dame was there at the end. 
That evening Elmer Layden, Joe Boland, and football captain Dom­inic Vairo left for New York to as­sist at the funeral and convey to the family the sympathy of two thousand students who had prayed with Joe since the day he was removed from the campus infirmary to St. Joseph's hospital. 
On Thursday morning the whole campus assembled in Sacred Heart church as Father Hugh O'Donnell celebrated a solemn high Mass; and the next morning the monogram club, Joe's teammates, praying for his soul as Father Tom Brennan, club chap­lain, said Mass for them in Sorin Chapel. 
It was the way Notre Dame re­members her dead. 
RADIO PROGRAMS TO FEATURE U.N.D. NIGHT 
Studebaker Corporation to Devote Large Share of April 29 Broadcast to N. D. Features; Individual Stations in United States, Mexico, Cuba and Rome Cooperatinsr. 
Radio programs of international scope will feature the twelfth annual observance of Universal Notre Dame Night on Monday, April 29. 
From every corner of the countrj' letters have already come telling of plans for club gatherings. To this unprecedeiited enhusiasm and early-planning may now be added the hap­py news that, through the kindness and cooperation of the Studebaker Corporation of South Bend and the National Broadcasting Company , there will be an official Notre Dame coast-to-coast broadcast on Universal Night. 
In addition to this one program, 
.featuring Notre Dame speakers and Notre Dame music, 132 or more indi­vidual stations in the United States, Mexico, Cuba and Eorne will cooper­ate in observing Universal Notre Dame Night. Many of them will pre­sent Notre Dame alumni as speakei's. Others will offer N.D. music or N.D. skit-s or N.D. facts. Some will present their N. D. program in the evening on April 29, others during the day. Still others will honor Notre Dame on April 28 instead of on April 29. Alumni, former students and all friends of Notre Dame are asked to watch their local papers for further information about these broadcasts or to ask their local stations. 
The Philco Eadio and Television Corporation is also cooperating with Universal Notre Dame Night by ask­ing Boake Carter, its news commen­tator, to announce the event to six million listeners several days in ad­vance. Philco dealers everywhere will be requested to lend radios to local Notre Dame clubs for the reception of the Notre Dame programs of the day. These Philco facilities were of­fered through the kindness and as­sistance of William A. A. Castellini, '22. 
The Notre Dame part of the Stude­baker program will include the "Vic­tory March," as played by Richard Himber's orchestra; remarks by Frank C. Walker, '09, and by Eddie Dowling, an honorary member of the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York; "Hike, Notre Dame!" by the 
N.D. Glee Club; remarks by Elmer Layden and by Father John F. O'Hara, C.S.C.; "When the Irish Backs Go Marching By," and the "Victory March," by the N.D. Glee Club. 
The Studebaker program will be broadcast at the following hours (lis­
teners are urged to consult their local papers for verification): 
8:00 to 8:30 East, daylight time. 
7:00
 to 7:30 East. Standard time. 

7:00
 to 7:30 Cent, daylight time. 


6:00 to 6:30 Cent. Standard time. 
10:00 to 10:30 Mountain Time. 
9:00 to 9:30 Pacific Time. 
(Note: There will be a re-broad­cast for the Mountain and the Pacific Coast states.) 
The following stations, all members of the NBC system, will broadcast the Studebaker program: 
WEEI—Boston, Mitss.7chusetrs WBEN—Buttalo. Now York WJIAQ—ChicaKO. Illinois WSAI—Cincinn.iti. Ohio WTAJt—Cleveland. Ohio \\^V,I—Detroit, Michimin WOC-WHO—DCS jroincs. Iowa WTIC—Hartford. Connecticut WDAF—Kansas City. Missouri WEAF—New Yorli City WOW—Omaha. Nebriislia KVW—PhiLldelphia. Pennsylt-ani.-i WCAE—Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania WCSH—Portland. JIaine WJAR—Providence, Rhode Island KSD—St. Louis, Missouri WGY—Schenectady, New York WRC—Washington, D. C. WTAG—Worcester, JIassachusetts WFAA-^\'BAP—D.illas. Ft, Worth, Texas KPRC—Houston, Texas WTCY—Oklahoma City, Oklahoma WOAI—San Antonio, Texas KTBS—Shreveport, Louisiana KVOO—Tuls.-i, Oklahoma KOA—Dcn\-er, Color&dci KFI—Los Anffeles. California KTAR—Phoeni.x, Arizona KGW—Portland. OreKon KDYL—S.ilt Lake City. Utah ICPO—San Francisco. California KOMO—Seattle. Washinsrton IvHQ—Spokane, "Washinston 
The following stations will, indi­vidually, broadcast Notre Dame pro­grams on or near Universal Notre Dame Night: 
WBRC—^Birminffham. Alab.-un.t WNRA—ShefSeld, Alabama KLCN—Blythevillo, Arkansas KUOA—Fayetteville. xVrkansas KTHS—Hot Springs, Arkansas KLRA—Little Rock Arkansas KARK—Little Rock, Arkans.TS KSUN—Lowell, Arizona KOY—Phoenix. Arizona IvPJM—Prcscott, Arizona KVOA—Tucson, Arizona KUMA—Y'uma, Arizona KTRB—Modesto, California KROW—Oakland. California KFXM—San Bemardine, Gali/ornia KQB—San Jose, California KDB—Santa Barbara. California KGDM—Stockton, California KVOR—Colorado Springs, Colorado KLZ—Denver, Colorado KFXJ—Grand Junction, Colorado WDUC—Hartford. Connecticut WTIC—Hartford. Connecticut WATR—Waterburj-, Connecticut WIXBS—Waterbury, Connecticut WRUF—Gainesville, Florida WIIBR—Jacksonville, Florida WQAM—Miami, Florida WGPC—Alb.-iny. Georffia WCAZ—Carthage, Illinois WLS—Chicago, Illinois , WMBD—Peoria. Illinois WHBF—Rock IsiancL Illinois 
"WHBU—Anderson. Indiana WGBF—Evansville. Indiana WIND—Gary, Indiana WWAE—Hammond. Indiana ^VFBM—Indianapolis. Indiana "VVTBC—^Muncie, Indiana woe—Davenport, Iowa ^VHO—Des Moines, Iowa KFJB—Marshalltown, Iowa KFKU—I^wrence, Kansas ^VPAI>—Paducah. Kentucky WJBW—New Orleans, Louisiana ^VBNO—New Orleans, Louisiana \VDSU—New Orleans, Louisiana KRMD—Shreveport, Louisiana DWKH—Shreveport, Louisiana WAAB—Boston, Massachusetts ^VMBC-Detroit Michigan WJMS—Ironwood, Michigan WIBM—Jackson, Michigan WEXL—Royal Oak, Michigan "WTCN—Minneapolis, Minnesota KGDE?—Fergus Falls, Minnesota KGFK—Moorhead, Minnesota WHEF—Kosciusko. Mississippi WCOC—Meridian, Mississippi WQBC—Vicksburg, Mississippi KFRU—Columbia. Missouri WMBH—Garden Park, Joplin, Missouri WHB—Kansas City, Missouri KWTO—Springfield. Missouri KGVO—Missoula, 3iontann KGNF—North Platte, Nebraska WAAW—Omaha, Nebraska WOW—Omaha. Nebraska KGKY—Scotts Bluff. Nebraska KICA—Clovis. New Mexico WCAP—Asbury Park, New Jersey WTNJ—^Trenton, New Jersey WABY—Albany, New York WVFW—Brooklyn. New Y'ork WCNW—Brooklyn. New York WEBR—Buffalo. New York \VESG—Elmira, New York ^VHAM-Bochester, New Y'ork ^V1BX—Utica, New York WFBL^Syracusc, New York WHAZ—Troy, New York WIVRL—Woodside. New York WSOC—Charlotte. North Carolina WBIG—Greensboro, North Carolina KFJM—Grand Forks. North Dakota KGCU—Mandan. North Dakota WFBB—Cincinnati, Ohio WGAR—Cleveland, Ohio ^VBNS—Columbus, Ohio KOMA—Oklahoma City. Oklahoma KOAC—Gorvallis, Oregon KOOS—Marsh/jeld, Oregon KXL—Portland, Oregon KOIN—Portland. Oregon WFBG—Altoona, Pennsylvania WKJC—Lancaster, Pennsylvania WHT—Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ^VTEL—Philadelphia, Pennsylvania WPEN—Philadelphia, Pennsylvania WCATJ—^Philadelphia, Pennsylvania WWSW—Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania WRAW—Reading, Pennsylvania WHAK—^Williamsport, Pennsylvania WEAN—Providence, Rhode Island • WCAT—Rapid City, South Dakota WOPr—Bristol, Tennessee "WROL—Knoxville, Tennessee WHBR—Memphis, Tennessee WSnC—Springfield, Tennessee WDAG—Araarillo, Texas KGRS—Amarillo, Texas KNOW—Austin, Texas ^VTAW—College Station, Texas WRR—Dallas, Te-xas KRGV—Weslaco, Texas WEHC—Charlottesville, Virginia WCAX—Burlington, Vermont ^VTAQ—Eau Claire, Wisconsin WIBA.—Madison, Wisconsin WOjrr—Manitowoc, Wisconsin WTMJ—Milwaukee. Wisconsin KVOS—Bellingham, Washington KWSC—Pullman, Washington KOMO & KJR Seattle, Washington KVT—^Tacoma, Washington KIT—Yakima, Washington KWYO—Sheridan, Wyoming 
FOREIGN COH—Havana. Cuba XBK—Mexico City. Mexico XEB—Mexico City, Mexico 2RO—(Short Wave) Rome, Italy 
JOE SULLIVAN, FOOTBALL CAPTAIN, DIES 
Joseph George Sullivan, '36, cap­tain-elect of the 1935 Notre Dame football team, died on March 20 in New York hospital. New York City. Three operations and numerous blood transfusions had been performed in a vain attempt to save liis life. 
Joe was stricken with pneumonia at Notre Dame in January. While he was still suffering from the effects of that illness it was necessary to per­form a mastoid operation. His condi­tion grew steadily worse and he was rushed to New York on a stretcher March 8 and placed under the care of Dr. Joseph E. J. King. 
Dr. King performed two operations for a brain abscess and on March 17, a third operation was decided upon in an effort to check the streptococcus infection. Blood transfusions were made before and after each operation to keep up his strength. 
His condition took a turn for the better after the third operation, but late on March 19 he suffered a re­lapse, from which he failed to rally. 
Joe, a resident of Belle Harbor, Long Island, New York, a born lead­er even in high school, captained the first St. John's eleven of Brooklyn to defeat Brooklyn Prep, its traditional rival. In addition to football, he was a track and field athlete, specializing in the 12 pound shot put. He was unbeaten in New York metropolitan meets from 1930 to 1932. At Notre Dame he was a member of the track team as a shot putter. 
Because of his ability, personality, character and high scholastic stand­ing, Joe was chosen by a committee of track coaches as one of two school­boy athletes to make a free trip to the Olympic Games of 1932 in Los Angeles as guest of the New York 
World-Telegram. 

Joe was one of the most popular students on the campus and his criti­cal illness brought forth Communions, novenas and prayers unequalled at Notre Dame since the illness and death of George Gipp. His hard fight against the terrific odds of his va­rious illnesses aroused the intense ad­miration of the students. 
He failed to win a monogram in his sophomore year of football as one of Ed Krause's many understudies but came along fast in the fall of 1934, took over the first string left tackle job and ranked third on the team in the number of minutes played during the season. 
More than 1,000 persons, including many of prominence in athletics, col­legiate, political and clerical circles were present at Joe's funeral. 
The Rev. Father John J. Patterson, pastor of St. Francis deSales church, presided at the simple home and bur­ial services and celebrated the solemn requiem Mass. 
There were 17 priests on the altar, in all, during the church services. Notre Dame's clerical faculty was represented by the Father Patrick Dolan, C.S.C., superior of the Mission Band; Father John Farley, C.S.C, ofiicial representative of the Univer­sity, and Fathers Joseph Hart, Thorn-

JOE SULLIVAN 
He died fighting. 

as Duffy and Thomas Richards, all of the Mission Band. 
The eulogy was delivered by Father Dolan, who was at Sullivan's bedside when he died. "Joe Sullivan was a Catholic gentleman, a hero of sports, but, above all, a model youth," he said in part. 
The church was filled to capacity long before the mass started at 10:30 o'clock. An overflow crowd of several hundred more blocked traffic in the inmiediate vicinitj'. 
The funeral cortege of about 100 cars formed a procession a half-mile in length. Four cars were required to carry the floral tributes, among which was a large piece from Notre Dame, formed of blue and gold flowers to resemble a football. Floral tokens from many other colleges, including the United States Militarj' and Naval Academies, other football rivals of Notre Dame, and Catholic institutions from all over the country, were noted. 
Representing the Notre Dame foot­ball team were Elmer Layden, head coach and director of athletics, Jos­eph Boland, line coach, and Dominic Vairo, captain of the 1934 eleven on which Sullivan played left tackle. 
Many Notre Dame football heroes of the recent past attended. Among them were Jimmy Crowley, Fordham football coach; Ed Huntsinger, Ni­agara football coach; John Law, 1929 captain, now secretary to Warden Lewis E. Lawes at Sing Sing; Hugh Devore, George Vergara and Ed Krause, whom Sullivan succeeded at ,left tackle. A large delegation of New York and New Jersey alumni 
was also present. 
Fill Out And Return Your Religious Questionnaire 
By P.ev. John J. Cavanaiiyh, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion. 
You have recently received in the mail the third religious questionnaire for Notre Dame alumni. If you have not already filled it out, please do so at once and return it to the Prefect of Religion, Notre Dame, Indiana. 

The purposes of the religious ques­tionnaire are familiar to you. You might, for example, sit down, fill it out and throw it into the waste bas­ket,—-and still be much Ihe better for your performance. The religious questionnaire induces self-inventoiy on important moi-al and spiritual points; it asks for comparisons that reveal tell-tale trends in your life; it pokes away at your will, challeng­ing valuable resolutions. 
It affords, too, a rare opportunity to preach, to offer suggestions and criticisms to fellow alumni on puz­zling matters. Since most of the ques­tions were submitted by alumni them­selves, your answers are sure to re­ceive a serious hearing. 
The questionnaii'e provides a sort of pulpit, from which, of all things, you may preach to parish priests. Tell them frankly how you think they might improve their Sunday sermons, how they can be more effective in the confessional, how they might stimulate college men in parish ac­tivities. Many parish priests through­out the country will welcome your suggestions. 
Present-day students, as well as the faculty and administrative offi­cials of the University, will profit gi-eatly by your observations and rec­ommendations on University life, on matters of policy. 
The alumni surveys Tinto which the questionnaires are analyzed and edited) are regarded by many Catho­lis and non-Catholic leaders through­out the countiy as important contri­butions to moral and spiritual liter­ature. They are the direct, frank voice of Catholic college men on many of their own personal habits, attitudes and opinions. They afford educators a check-up on how theories work out with college men after graduation. 
Some of the questions in the cur­rent questionnaire continue investi­gations begun in previous alumni sur­veys; others are inserted to pro\-ide comparison^ between alumni and stu­dent status. 
For the sake of complete frank­ness, complete anonymity is assured to alumni who fill out the question­naire. A secretarj- will open and de­stroy each of the postmarked en­velopes before he turns over your questionnaire to the editor of the forthcoming Sur\-ey. 
FRANK SPEARMAN RECEIVES LAETARE MEDAL 
California Novelist and Scenario Writer Is Honored for His Wholesome Writings; Received LL.D. from Notre Dame During Father Cavanaugh's Presidency. 
Frank Hamilton Spearman, Cali­fornia novelist and scenario writer, was on March 31, Laetare Sunday, named recipient of the Laetare Med­al, bestowed each year by the Uni­versity of Notre Dame upon an out­standing member of the Catholic lait}'. 
In announcing the decision, the committee made the following state­ment: 
"Frank H. Spearman has been se­lected by the University of Notre Dame as recipient of the Laetare Medal for 1935 in recognition of his distinction as a Catholic layman and of his services to the country in the volumes of interesting and whole­some fiction he has provided through many years for a large reading pub­
lic. This award will have the hearty approval of all who are acquainted with the work of this manly Ameri­can novelist." 
Mr. Spearman, a resident of Hol-Ijnvood, began to write fiction after spending several years in the field of journalism. In rapid succession he produced the following novels most of which are well known, some of which have won distinction in con­temporary American literature. 
Nerve of Foley, Dr. Bryson, Held for Orders, Whispering Smith, Robert Kimberly, Moiiutain Divide, Nan of Mnsic Moimtain, Marriage Verdict, Spayiish Lover, and Hell's Desert. Gunlock Ranch, recently announced, is his latest work. 
Whispering Smith is his best known novel, while Robert Kimberly is re­garded as the nearest expression of his Catholic mind—a defense of mar­riage sanctities. Several of his works have been recast in scenario form for production on the screen. 
All his writing, however, was not merely to amuse. "The Strategy of Great Railroads," a critical history 
FRANK HAMILTON SPEARMAN 
Interesting and Wholesome. 

of transportation development in the United States, is regarded as one of the outstanding treatments of this subject and is a standard reference for students of economics. 
Totally unlike his adventure loving creations, the author of so much stirring fiction is a quiet appearing, gentle speaking man who lives a se­questered life in his Holl>-wood home. He is the father of four living chil­dren, a girl and three boys. One of 
N.CA.F.MEETS IN CHICAGO APRIL, 25-27 
The theme of "Catholic Thought and National Reconstruction" will unify the decennial convention of the National Catholic Alumni Federation which is to be held in the Palmer House, Chicago, on Thui-sday, Fri­day, and Saturday, April 25, 26, and 27. 
Addresses at the convention •ivill be given by numerous nationally known figures. The College Presidents' Din­ner on Thursday evening, April 25, will be featured by the addresses of Ross Hoffman, professor of Euro­pean histoi-y in New York Universitj-, and of Thomas E. Woodlock, associ­ate editor of the Wall Street Journal. 
Raoul Desvemine, Professor Louis 
J. A. Mercier of Han-ard and Rev. Ignatius Cox, S.J., will address the forum session on Friday evening and Rev. M. C. D'Arcy, S.J. and the Hon. Edward S. Dore will speak at the closing luncheon on Saturday. 
Two panel discussions, one on "De­veloping Catholic Leadership in Cath­olic Colleges," the other on "Develop­ing Catholic Leadership Among Cath­olic Alumni" will bring the following Notre Dame men to the front: Dan Mon-issey, Tim Gahnn, and Ray Gallagher. 
John W. Scallan, president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, is a vice-chairman of the convention. Ser%-ing on various committees are Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, John T. Balfe, Daniel E. Mon-issey, James E. Ai-mstrong, William R. Dooley, Aus­tin .\. McNichols, Richard L. Halpin, the latter. Rev. Arthur D. Spearman, is a Jesuit priest. 
Mr. Spearman was bom in Buf­falo, N. Y., Sept. 6, 1859. He was educated at Lawrence College, Ap­pleton. Wis. During the presidency of the late Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the University of Notre Dame honored the novelist with the degree of LL.D. in 1917. In 1924, Santa Clara Univereity of California be­stowed a like award. 
The Laetare Medal is given by Notre Dame as a recognition of merit and as an incentive to greater achievement. The custom originated with the Papal practice of bestowing the Golden Rose on a member of the Italian Catholic nobility on Laetare Sunday. Its counterpart was inaugu­rated at Notre Dame in 1883 when the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C, founder of the University, bestowed the first medal on John Gilmary Shea, a historian. 
The roll of previous medalists con­tains names of persons selected from everj- walk of life—statesmen, finan­ciers, artists, writers, soldiers, scien­tists, physicians, architects, philoso­phers, jurists, orators and economists. 
Recent recipients of the medal in­clude the Hon. Alfred E. Smith, John McCormack, the late Edward N. Hur­ley, Dr. Albert F. Zahm, occupant of the Guggenheim chair of aeronautics in the Congressional Libi-ary, and Dr. Stephen S. Maher. Mr. Spearman was selected for the current award by the medal committee which has been considering the list of prospec­tive medalists for several months. 
Edward W. Gould, Francis X. Egan, Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., Bruce J. Holmberg, and Maximilian J. St. George, all Notre Dame' men. 
BROTHER "LEEP" 
(Continued from Pace ISl) 

St. Philip Neri—Cure of iVrts kind of sanctity. It wasn't long-faced, or terribly solemn. 
It was practical as shoe leather, and like shoe leather, was on the ground. 
Brother Leopold didn't fear the death that places his tiny body today in the Community Cemetery. He knew that his broken body could no longer serve, and consecrated service was the watchword of his life. Sure­ly, wherever he is today, his heart can reach up to God in prayer, for the Universitj- and "the boys." 
SPRING ATHLETIC SUPPLEMENT 
The NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Ford, Peters 
The election of Johnny Ford and Marty Peters to the co-captaincy of the 1935-36 team recently marked the official close of the 1934-35 Notre Dame basketball season. 
Altho-.:gh this team was one of his poorest in the matter of games won and lost, Coach George E. Keogan can look back over his 12 years at Notre Dame with pride. His teams ha%-e won 189 games and have lost 63 for a winning percentage of .750. 
Notre Dame won 13 games and lost nine last season, losing five games by a total of 10 points, or an average of two points a game. His team averaged less than six feet in height, and lacked some of the offensive punch of recent teams. Ed Krause, thrice all-American center, and Joe Voegele, forward, were lost by graduation. With them went an average of 350 points a season. 
The team that represented Notre Dame had to concede the tip-off to the opposition in almost all games, and then had to fight to control the ball. Marty Peters, the only tall man on the squad, had to get the ball off the enemy back board, and race down the floor to lead the offense. Johnny Ford and Joe O'Kane, forwards punc­tuated the season with their numer­ous interceptions and their fine ball-handling. Capt. Johnny Jordan, shift­ed from forward to guard to replace Don Allen, when the latter was taken 

m JOSEPH PETRITZ, "32, Sports Editor 
 Elected Basketball 
COACH GEORGE E . KEOGAN 
ill just before the season opened; and George Ireland, who has played in 46 consecutive games , distinguished themselves by their fine all-around play. Don Elser, center; Johnny Hop­kins, forward; and Frank Wade, guard, were outstanding reserves. Jordan and O'Kane will be graduated. 
The Irish played such opponents as Northwestern, Stanford, New York U., Holy Cross, Minnesota, Marquette, Butler, Pittsburgh, Chicago, Ohio State, Illinois, Xavier, and Temple. 
 Co-Captains 
BASEBALL 
Only seven losing seasons in 42 years of baseball at Notre Dame is the tradition the 1935 team will try to perpetuate. For 26 years from 1906 to 1932 Notre Dame baseball teams each season won more games than they lost. They had a winning season in 1933 but lapsed again last season when I I of the 10 games went to the opposition. 
The conclusion of the 1934 season gave great promise for 1935, and Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline is ^^•il­ling to go on record with the predic­tion that Notre Dame will win more than half of its games. The 1934 nine lost 9 of its first 10 games; it finished by w^inning seven of the last nine games. 
The work of Andy Pilney, Frankie Gaul, Joe Beach, Wally Fromhart, and Matt Themes, who joined the team at the conclusion of spring foot­ball practice, made the difference. All of them are back this season. Gradu­ation losses have been heavy, particu­larly in the pitching department, but Coach Kline feels that the hitting power of the current team will offset infield defensive weakness and the pitching blight. 
Themes forms the nucleus of the pitching staff. Joe Beach, senior southpaw outfielder, has moved on to 
(Continued on Paire 2) 

Back row: Manager Kirley, Trainer Young, Wade, Baur, Peters, Elser, O'Connor, DeMots, Capt. Jordan, and Coach George Keogan. Front row: Mettler, Hopkins, Ford, O'Kane, Bonner, Ireland, Wentwortk. 
TRACK 
Undefeated in four indoor dual meets, Notre Dame track stars are anxiously awaiting the opening of their outdoor campaign. 
The indoor season was featured by the record-smashing performances by Capt. Vincent Murphy, high jumper; Don Elser, shot putter; and George Meagher, broad jumper. 
COACH JOHN" P. NICHOLSO.V 

Following are the results: 
Notre Dame, 6.5; Chicago, 39 
Notre Dame, AS; Marquette, 41 
Notre Dame, 51; Iowa, 35 
Notre Dame, 71^,2; Illinois, 32»2 
Possibly the fact that Murphy, El­ser, and Meager confined themselves chiefly to breaking records they had established previously themselves dulls the general effect, but they broke sev­eral marks established by other per­sons, and put their own records up where no one should tamper with them. 
Murphy served notice that this was his year when he leaped 6 feet 8 inches in practice. The following week he set a University of Illinois armory mark of G feet 7 inches, the best mark made indoors from a dirt take-off in history. Another week elapsed and he set another mark of 6 feet tM inches, which eclipsed all previous ef­forts in the Central Intercollegiate conference meet, the Notre Dame gymnasium record, and Murphy's own record for Notre Dame men compet­ing indoors. Attempting to jump from boards in Madison Square Garden, Murphy twisted his ankle on his first jump, taped it himself, returned with the bar at 6 feet 2 inches, cleared this height and then added t>vo more inch­es to that jump to take fourth with a mere leap of 6 feet 4 inches. 
Elser fiddled ^vith his Notre Dame indoor shot put record, raising it from 47 feet 3 inches, to 47 feet 7 inches, and then 47 feet 11 inches. In the Armour relays, Frank Davis of Hillsdale gave him his first defeat 
1935 Track Schedule 

April 20—Purdue at Notre Dame April 2G-2T—DraJve or Penn relays M a y 4—Oliio State at Columbus Ma y 11—Michigan State at E. Lansinjr M a y 18—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame M a y 25—Marquette at Notre Dame June 1—Iniliiina state meet at Lafayette June 7—C. I. C. meet at Milwaukee 
of the season. Elser met Davis the next week at the Butler relays, made three mediocre tosses, and then put everything he had into his last throw. "As I cocked my arm, I said to my­self, 'here's one for "Sully," ' " Elser related after the meet, referring to Joe Sullivan the Irish football cap­tain-elect and weight star who had died a few days before. The ball sailed out 48 feet 9% inches to beat Davis by an inch and to set a Butler record with the best toss made in the middle west last winter. 
Meagher has had only three oppor­tunities to perform in the broad jump 
ELSER MURPHY 
Ma-VGHER LAYDEN 

the past season, but he raised his own Notre Dame and gymnasium record from 23 ft. 3VJ ins. to 23 ft. 71^ ins." 
Credit is also due to Mike Layden, brother of Elmer the Irish director of athletics, for his fine work in the high and low hurdles which places him in the individual scoring lead; Jack Edwards, star pole vaulter who has cleared nearly 13 feet; Jim Sheils, Bob Bernard, Salvador Ducasa, Paul Rubly, Jim Parsons, Jim Bowdren, Jack Frawley, John McKenna, and Joe McGrath, who ran the middle dis­tances and formed the mile and two-mile relay teams; Charles Jordan, consistent point-winner in the dashes; and Art Gott, two-mile star. 
Notre Dame took second in the Central conference meet which was won by Pittsburgh. The indoor meet is run in the Notre Dame gymnasium annually. The 1935 meet attracted a record entry of 190 men from IB schools. 
BASEBALL 

(Continued from Page 1) the mound where he will attempt to curve 'em past enemy batsmen; Ger­ald Van Wagner and Frank Kopczak of the football squad; and Bill Tou­mey, relief hurler last year, are the other outstanding mound prospects. Behind the plate will be two ex­perience stars, Gaul and Underkofler. 
COACH CL-USEXCE (JAKE) KLI.VE 
Capt. Kieran (Lefty) Dunn will hold do>\-n first base. Danny Cunha and George Wentworth are after the second base opening. Harold Reagan and Vic Mettler are the outstanding shortstop prospects. Wally Fromhart appears to be the stand-out at third base. 
Pilney, Frank Matthews, and Arn­old Velcheck should give Notre Dame one of the best defensive outfields in the country. Should any of them fal­ter, Mettler and Cunha, who patrolled the garden last year, can move out there again. 
Every man on the roster is capable of hitting .300 or better, and it is just a question whether defensive weak­ness and a lack of top-notch pitching can nullify this power. 
1935 Baseball Schedule April 12—Ohio State at Notre Dame April 16—Purdue at Lafayette April 17—Purdue at Lafayette April IS—Western State at Kalamazoo April 20—Chicago at Chicago April 2-1—Iowa at Notre Dame. April 25—Iowa at Notre Dame April 27—Illinois at Champaign April 30—Chicago at Notre Dame Ma y 2—Michigan State at E. Lansing Ma y 3—Toledo at Toledo (night) M a y 4—Ohio State at Columbus Ma y 8—Northwestern at Notre Dame May 11—Western State at Notre Dame May 14—Wisconsin at Madison May 15—Northwestern at Evanston May 18—Purdue at Notre Dame May 31—Wisconsin at Notre Dame June 1—Michigan State at Notre Dame 
FOOTBALL 
Saddened iimneasurably by the loss of their chosen leader, Joseph Sulli­van, captain-elect and varsity left tackle, who died in March after a long and valiant battle against over­whelming odds, Notre Dame's 300-odd football candidates have returned to spring practice with heavy hearts. 
Coach Elmer Layden, who is also Notre Dame's director of athletics and a brilliant character of her foot­ball history by reason of his feats as a member of the Four Horsemen, does not expect to replace Joe Sullivan, either as a leader or as a player. 
His loss will serve as an inspira­tion to the men who carry on for him, possibly an incentive which \\'ill tran­scend the absence of his leadership, playing ability, and friendship. 
The coaches—Layden, Joe Boland, Chet Grant, Tom Conley, and Bill Cemey — are also seeking replace­ments for some 30 men who will be graduated in June. As in the case of Sullivan, equals to many of these men will not be found, and the task in spring drills is simply to iind the best available man to fill the shoes of 
Capt. Dominic Vairo—right end, who ranks as one of Notre Dame's greatest ends, a fine leader, a cool, efficient, fighting wingnian whose all-around play won him considerable all-Anierican mention; 
Jack Robinson—^All-American cen­ter, who, after an amazing series of mishaps in 1933 came back to foot­ball cold and zoomed to the heights as one of the game's finest pivot men; 
George Melinkovich—Another liv­ing example that "they do come back," star right halfback, given up for dead or life invalidism a year pre­viously, shifted from fullback to right halfback upon his return to the line­up, leader of the team in points scored, average and total yardage from scrimmage, and the first right halfback in Notre Dame to lead in scoring for many years; 
Eocco Schiralli—I r o n man left guard, who played more total min­utes than any other man on the squad, playing brilliant, heads-up ball in every game. 
And you can add to these 25 others, many of them monogram men. The loss of Robinson and Schiralli was enough to weaken the center of the line; plus the loss of such fine guards as Fritz Weidner, Paul Schrenker, Dick Shamla, and Art Mueller, the outlook is verj^ dark. Dan Hanley and Al Costello were lost at right half­back, in addition to Melinkovich. Bud Bonar, Eddie Caldwell, Hal Quinlan, Carl Esser, Invin Davis, Matt Ron-zone, John Hoban, George Lynch, Bemie O'Brien, Pat Fisher, Phil Heinle, John Connor, Bill Schroder, Karl Fulnecky, and Al D'Amora are among the other valuable squad mem­bers lost to the 1935 team. 
Returning lettermen around whom 

Coach Layden will form his team are: Ends—Wayne Slillner, Marty Pet­ers, Matt Themes. 
"Tackles—^Ken Stilley, John Michu­ta, Dick Pfefferle, Harrv- Becker, Bill Steinkemper. 
Guard s — Bill Smith, August 

Church, John Lauter. Centers—Harry Pojman, F. Solari. Quarterbacks — W a 11 y Fromhart, 
Frankie Gaul. Halfbacks—Bill Shakespeare, Andy Pilney, Mike Layden, Tony Mazziotti. Fullbacks—Don Elser, Fred Cari­deo, Steve Miller. 
ELJIER F . LAYDEX 

Bill Steinkemper and John Lauter are the only returning sophomore monogram winners, so Layden cannot look for much help from next year's jtmior crop. Sophomores who have w^on varsitj' positions at Notre Darae could be counted on your fingers, and for this reason Layden is not antici­pating any particular help from the current crop of freshmen. 
The addition of Ohio State and Kansas to the schedule has aroused more than the customary interest in the 1935 team. Notre Darae led the rest of the country in attendance last year and should maintain that lead this year. Those desiring ticket appli­cations may write to J. Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics, Notre Dame, Ind. Ticket prices have not yet been set. Applications will be mailed late in July and the sale of tickets will open August 1. 
1935 Football Schedule 
Sept. 28—Kansas at Notre Dame Oct. 5—Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh Oct. 12—^\Visconsin at Madison Oct. 19—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame Oct 26—Navy at Baltimore Nov. 2—Ohio State at Columbus Nov-9—^Northwestern at Notre Dame Nov. 16—Army at New York Nov. 23—South. California at Notre Dame 
INTERHALL ATHLETICS 

Notre Dame lends itself naturally to a fine interhall system of athletics. The presence of 13 residence halls and an off-campus division creates a natural rivalry which needs only the direction which it gets from trained workers from the department of phys­ical education to make it one of the finest in the country. This direction has led to a true exemplification of the slogan "athletics for all" at Notre Dame, and practically every student on the campus participates in foot­ball, basketball, track, baseball, play­ground ball, golf, tennis, swimming, 
cross-country, bo.xing, wrestling, hand­ball, squash, skating, hockey, rifle shooting, or fencing. Appropriate awards are made to \\Tnners of team or individual championships at the conclusion of the round-robin sched­ules or eliminations. Equipment, fa­cilities, trainers, officials, and student managers are at the disposal of the interhall athletes. 
BOXING 
Boxing came into its own at Notre Dame in 1932 when the Notre Dame Scholastic, campus weekly, sponsored the first of a series of annual univer­sity championships in eight divisions. The proceeds of the championship bouts go to the Bengal Missions in India. Participants in the 1935 tour­nament included such notables as 51 a x Marek,' international light-heavyweight golden gloves champion; Bart McKeman and Bud Marcy, Chi­cago C.Y.O. champions; the Gooden brothers of Tulsa and the Purcell brothers of Salt Lake Citj- who hold many club, citj' and state titles. 
RIFLE SHOOTING 
Rifle shooting passed from the Notre Dame picture after the World war, but has been revived in the past three years until now 100 men are shooting on the campus. The 1934 team Avon 19 straight matches, and the current team is maintaining this fast pace. Capt. John McGrath re­cently won the invitational Camp Perry meet at Booneville, Mo., from a field of 415 gunners, making a score of 499 out of a possible 500. 
GYMNASTICS 
The formation of an exhibition gym team by the department of physical education has met with the enthus­iastic approval of students in the de­partment as well as the hundreds who have witnessed its skilful demonstra­tions. Twelve men selected from the department's enrollment of 140 stu­dents form the team. The work done by the team is based upon work taught in classes. John A. Scannell is head of the department. 
FENCING 
Prof. Pedro de Landero introduced fencing to Notre Dame in 1934 and had the expected losing season; in 1935 his men were undefeated in sev­en matches and reigned supreme in the middle west. 
Interest and impro%'ement increased so rapidly in one short year that Prof, de Landero could afford to use the shock troop system in several matches, and when you can use shock troops, you have arrived, as any Notre Dame football fan knows. 
Now Prof, de Landero has taken over tennis and hopes to accomplish similar results with this hobby. 
His sons, Carlos, who captained the fencers, and Telmo, were two of the brilliant stars of the past season, Carlos winning 11 of his 12 sabres matches. Telmo won 13 of 18 foils matches. 
John Caresio fought 27 bouts, more than anyone else on the squad, and he won 17, also more than anyone else. 
Kevin Kehoe won 15 out of 23 bouts in epee and saber. Louis Grosso won 15 out of 20 bouts in foils. 
John McAuliffe, Joseph Jlyron, and Richard Snooks were valuable in sub­stitute roles. 
Caresio, Grosso and Myron will be graduated in June. With several' promising; freshmen coming up, pros­pects for 1936 are excellent. Follow­ing is the complete record: Notre Dame, 11; AVashington XJ., 6. Notre Dame, 12; Purdue, 5. Notre Dame, 11; Northwestern, 6. Notre Dame, 9; Wittenberg, 5. Notre Dame, 10; Ohio State, 7. Notre Dame, 9; Cincinnati, 8. Notre Dame, 11; Purdue, 4. 
TENNIS 
Tennis prospects for 1935 at Notre Dame are unusually bright despite the loss of Dick Kelley and Capt. Jack O'Hanlon of the 1934 team. 
Capt. Frank Weldon, Joe Waldron, Joe Prendergast, George Cannon, and Norman Fredericks are the returning veterans. They will be supplemented 
C.A.PT. FRANK J. WELDON 

by Ed Buchart, Jr., Kentucky state champion; Bill Fallon, university fall champion last year; Joe McNulty, and George Specht. 
Matches are played on four excel­lent asphalt courts and 12 new clay courts. The schedule includes Bradley, Wabash, Indiana, Northwestern, Chi­cago, Michigan State, Ohio State, Illinois, Western State, and the In­diana college tournament. 
Coach Pedro de Landero, John McAuliffe, Capt. Cai-los de Landero, John Caresio, Telmo de Landero, Richard Snooks, Joseph Myron, Louis Grosso, and Manager Tom iValsh. 
GOLF 
Led by Capt. Johnny Banks, Notre Dame's golf team is going after new laurels in 1935. The sport is young at Notre Dame, but the record is im­pressive. 
The completion of the William J. Burke-Notre Dame 18-hole course in 1930 inaugurated golf on the campus. The 1930 team won all of its dual matches, the state individual and team titles, and third in the national intercollegiate tournament. Capt. Lar­ry MoUer won the medal, went to the iinals, and was elected to the associa­tion presidency in the intercollegiate. 
It was a fast pace to set for future teams, but they were equal to the assignment. Notre Dame has been imbeaten in dual matches for four of the past five years, losing but two matches, both in 1932. Irish golfers have won four state team titles and 
C.«T. JOHN L. BANKS 

five individual champoinships in five attempts. They have finished third twice and fourth twice in the national intercollegiate tournament. 
Former V/estem junior champion. Banks tied for the medal in the inter­collegiate in 1933 and went to the 1934 quarter-finals. He set a state college record of 294 last year. He has lost only one dual match in 15. 
Winfield Day, university champion for three years, forced Charley Yates, intercollegiate champion and sixth ranking amateur in the country, to the 18th hole in the first round of the 1934 intercollegiate. He forced Reynolds Smith to the 20th hole in the quarter finals of the national am­ateur, and has been Chicago district junior champ two years running. 
Bill Cole and Pat Malloy will prob­ably complete the four-man team. They will be supplemented by Harry Baldwin and Lou Fehlig, sophomores; and Herman Green and John Jordan. 
Following is the 1935 schedule: 
April 20—Purdue at Lafayette 
April 22—Wayne U. at Detroit 
April 23—Detroit at Detroit 
April 27—Detroit at Notre Dame 
April 2D—CliicaRO at Notre Dame 
3t a y 'i—Wisconsin at Notre Dame 
Ma y 11—Northwestern at Evanston 
Ma y 17—inchisan State at E. Lansins 
M a y 25—Pittsburgh at Notre Diune 
Sfaj- .11 and June 3-—State meet at N. D. 
The "^otre 'Dame cAlumnus April, 1935 
•
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARIZONA—James 

D.
 Barry. '97. Oinsolidated Bank BIdjr.. Tucson. President; Steve Rcbcil. '2o. 620 N. Sixth St., Tucson. Secretar>-. 


NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS—Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassner, '14, Hope. President: Burt L. Roberts. 1325 Lincoln Ave.. Little Rock. Secretary. 
AKRON NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Joseph 
H. Kraker, '29. n76-24th St.. Cuyahosa Falls. Ohio. President; Claude H. Homing. 

•29, 133 N. Highland Ave.. Akron. Ohio. Secretary. 
Just a few lines to let you know-that the Akron Alumni are still click­ing. 
FRANK DOAN, is chairman of the committee for the Rockne Memorial. Alumni will attend Mass and Holy Communion at St. Vincent's in a body, followed by a breakfast. 
The Alumni here sincerely regi-et 

to hear of FR. CAVANAUGH'S 
death, and also of next year's team 
captain, JOE SULLIVAN. 
RICHARD BOTZUM is the last of the Alumni to put into practice the maxim "two can live as cheap as one" —Dick and Miss Margaret Barrj^ were mairied at St. Vincent's during the fall. 
JOE KRAKER, club president and 

his dad, now opei-ates Akron pop­
ular and most populous "Old Heidel­
berg"—situated in the heart of down 
town Aki-on. CHUCK ROHR might 
take a night off to come down and see 
a good restaurant and beer dispen­
sary. 
I understand that DAN DUFPY has almost persuaded his boss, the Hon. Martin Davey, Governor, to declare a state holiday when N. D. and this state tangle—just a little more pressure, Don. 
That 's all. 
FRANK STEEL. 

On March 31 we had our annual Mass and Communion breakfast in memory of ROCK. We attended Mass at St. Vincent's Church and had ham and eggs at Kaase's Dining Room. More than 20 of the fellows were on hand. CLAUDE HORNING was in the chair and CHARLEY SCHNUR, JOE KRAKER and myself contrib­uted the other '29 atmosphere. DR. PAT DORAN, FRANK STEELE, the barrister. Newshawk MURRAY POW­ERS, and Rubberman MIKE LUN­DEKGAN, all of the early 20's rep­resented the old-timers. JERRY CLINE, -A.RT DUTT, HOP OPREY, LEO CROWE, and JOHNNY DOR­AN carried the baton for the earlv 30's. 
Leonard Breiding, local attorney and grand knight of the Akron K. of C, was our guest and speaker. As one who had "never seen Knutc Rockne, nor one of his teams, nor had ever set foot on the Noti'e Dame campus" Mr. Breiding paid eloquent tribute to "Rock" who "Reached mil­lions that didn't know a thing about football and then, with the sheer force of his character and personality, inspired them in many ways." 

FRANK DOAN. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C.. '02. Dacca. President: Rev. J. J. Henessey. C.S.C, Dacca. Secretary. 
BERRIEN COUNTY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BERRIEN COUN­TY—Wm. H. Downey. '28. 1615 Oak St.. Niles. Mich.. President; Malcolm K. Hatfield. '29, 2305 Niles .A.ve., St; Joseph. Jlrch.. Secretarj'. 
The last meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Berrien County was held on Monday, March 11 at the Four Flags Hotel, Niles, Mich. Treas­urer JOHNSON reluctantly loosened up with enough cash, from the profits made on the cabaret dance which was held at the swanky Hotel Whitcomb, St. Joseph, on March 2, to buy three rounds apiece of what have you for all members present. 
Less than thirty Notre Dame men attended the March 11 meeting as the annual spring caucus of both political parties fell on that evening. Attor­neys PHIL LANDSMAN, BILL DESENBERG, and CAPPY GRATH­WOHL were reported to have at­tended their local Republican caucases in Buchanan and Niles in an effort to administer aid and comfort to the rapidly improving old elephant. On the other hand it was rumored that such staunch Democrats as Attorney THOMAS FARRELL, Alderman SHERIDAN COOK, THOMAS GRIMES. Supervisor PAT LAGONI, CLARENCE HESS and others were having their hands full keeping the energetic young Democratic mule from kicking his stall to pieces. 
After 37% minutes of prolonged discussion it was decided that the Berrien County Club would obser\'e Universal Notre Dame Night on the campus on April 29 so that the proper setting could be had for the occasion. Once more a dastardly raid was made on the club treasury so that an elab­orate stag dinner could be given in the faculty dining hall for all former students of Notre Dame who now live in Berrien County. 
The meeting was adjourned at 

10:15 so that all members could hear 
FATHER COUGHLIN vs. General Johnson. MALCOLM HATFIELD, Secretary. 
P.S. The Club wishes to take this opportunity of inviting all Notre Dame men and their families to spend their vacations in the land of the beautiful blossoms queens. We be­lieve that it pays to advertise. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON—Jarlath 
(Jack) Slaltery. '31, 226 I.. St.. South Bos­ton. President; James Skahan. '31. 5 Grove St., Belmont, Mass.. Secretary. 
• 

BUFFALO 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFP.\LO—Rob­ert Moore. 'SO. 31 Geraril PI,. President: Robert Measer. '34. The Amherst Bee Co.. Main and Rock Sts.. Williamsvillc. Secretary. 
ROBERT MOORE, Main street, Buffalo, was elected president of the Notre Dame Club of Buffalo at a re­cent meeting held in room 1509, Lib­erty Bank Building. Mr. Moore as­sumes the presidency after occupying the office of vice-president and secre­tary. He is a member of the firm of the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Com­
•pany. 
THOMAS KENNY was elected vice president, ROBERT S. MEAS­ER, secretary, and CARLOS -A.. FRANK chosen as treasurer. 
The directors elected are GEORGE DAPSON, PAUL HOEFFLER, JAY 
L. LEE, DR. ROBERT BURNS, HENRY L. BURNS, MARTIN J. RYAN, GORDON BENNETT, CLYDE A. SCHAMEL, and CYRIL 
J. RICKARD. JOHN BYRNE, an executive of the Phoenix Brewery, very kindly ar­ranged the meeting which the club held in the Phoenix Tap Room on March 4. Beer and lunch for every­body— and at an astonishingly low-price. The club's ROCKNE memorial Mass was read in St Louis' Church on Saturday morning, March 30, at 8 o'clock by Rev. Henry B. Lauden­bach, Confessions began a half hour earlier. Elaborate plans are in the making for the club dance in Hotel Lafayette 
on Easter Monday, April 22. "Some­thing new and different" the ads say. 
CAPITAL DISTRICT 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CAPITAL DISTRICT — Ronald McNamee. •2-1. 80 Church St.. Balston Spa. N. Y.. President; Richard Walsh, '31, 110 Union St..' Schen­ectady. N. Y.. Secretary. 
Upon returning from a lengthy trip I have just learned with surprise and regret of the death of Father Cava­
naugh and of Joe Sullivan's untimely 
death. 
I can assure you of the deep sym­
pathy of every man of The Notre 
Dame Club of the Capital District for 
the University in this our common 
bereavement. 
Sincerely, 
Ronald J. McNamee. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CALUMET DIS­
TRICT—John Stanton. '24. 1071 Broadivay. 
Gary. Ind.. President: Fred J. Salman. Jr.. 
'28. 5752 Erie Ave.. Hammond. Ind.. Sccre­
tarj*. 
• 

CHICAGO 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHIC.A.GO—.John 
\V. Scallan, '25. 79 E. Adams St.. President: 
AI C. Stepan. '.'il. 363 E. Illinois St.. Sccre­
t.iry. 
NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
National Convention 
Palmer House, Chicago 
April 25, 26 and 27 
YOU ARE INVITED 

JOHN W. SCALLAN, '25, unani­mously elected President of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago at the Annual Dinner and Election of Offi­cers, held February 28 at the Joseph Urban Room of the Congress Hotel, has plans well under way to make the Annual Universal Notre Dame Night, April 29, one of the most un­usual and colorful events of recent years. This will be the first social affair of many that will be held throughout the year. 
Everyone knows of Jack's aggres­siveness and his organization ability and the support the members of the Club will give their popular president in his undertakings assures in every way a splendid year for the Chicago Club of Notre Dame. 
The unanimous election of the fol­lowing officers is announced: 
Honorary President, JEROME J. CROWLEY; first Vice President, WILLIAM P. KEARNEY, '28; Sec­ond Vice President, PAUL J. FOG­ARTY, '17; Secretary, ALFRED 0. STEPAN, JR., '31; Treasurer, WIL­LIAM J. MILROY, '13; Board of Governors (Three Years): JAMES 
E. SANFORD, '15; EDWARD W. GOULD, '23; JACK ELDER, '29. 
RAYMOND MULLIGAN, Chair­man of the Annual Dinner, assisted by FRANK FITZSIMONS, RICH­ARD H.4LPIN, RAY LAWLER and JAMES.E. GRAY, presented an out­standing list of speakers and ar­ranged for the regular Congress Ho­tel floor show for the complete en­tertainment of the gaests, whose at­tendance numbered over 225. 
The hohored guest was none other 
than FRANK THOMAS, successful and popular coach of Alabama Uni­versity. The class of 1923, headed by EDWARD W. GOULD, presented Thomas with a little gift as a token of their esteem. Seated at a special table the twenty-two members of the class of '23 who were present filed up to the speaker's table and shook hands with their classmate. In this group was JOSEPH CAS-A.SANTA, Musical Director of Notre Dame, who earlier in the evening conducted the great Cherniavsky Orchestra while they played the Victory March and Hike Song. This was a sight to be­hold and will be long remembered by those that came to hear and see. 
The principal speaker of the eve­ning was General Robert E. Wood, Railroad, Industrial and Banking leader of the Middle West, and presi­dent of Sears Roebuck & Co. The General e.vpressed a warm and sin­cere regard for all Notre Dame men and next to West Point he has adopt­ed the University of Notre Dame as his own. "There may be some lounge lizards among the Notre Dame gradu­ates," he said, "but I never knew nor saw one. The type of men turned out by your great school is the type that America needs at all times and especially today. The hard fighting man is the man of the hour." 
Needless to sav his remarks were well received. ELMER LAYDEN, Lynn Waldorf, head coach of North­western, Clark Shaughnessy, head coach of Chicago University, and NOBLE KIZER of Purdue all graced the speaker's table and each spoke a few words. ARCH WARD, Notre Dame graduate and sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, also spoke. 
The three University lay trustees residing in Chicago were present, namely, BYRON KANALEY, JOHN 
F. GUSHING and Edward J. Doyle 
of Commonwealth Edison. JIM GRAY, '28. 
CINCINNATI 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI— Albert Castellini. '24. 1001 Atl.T-s Bids.. President; GeorKC AUR. '3;>. •1.1.15 Ridfre%'ie\v Ave.. Secretary. 
At a meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Cincinnati held at the Kemper Lane Hotel, Tuesday eve­ning, March 12, the following officers were elected to guide the Club through the coming year: President, AL CASTELLINI; Vice President, HARRY CRUMLEY; Secretary, GEORGE AUG; Treasurer, ROB­ERT VAN LAHR; and Trustee for the three year term, CLARENCE BRINK. 
This letter, will, therefore, bring to a close my official connection with the Club as its spokesman through the medium of the mail in keeping you informed as to the whereabouts and doings of our group, and may I at this time extend to you and the good officers of the Alumni Association my sincere thanks for all the many fine things you have done for me and the full cooperation that has been extended during the past seven years that it was my good fortune to serve as secretary and president of our local group. I am sure that our new officers will do a much better and big­ger job for Notre Dame and the Alumni than I have been able to do, because one naturally has his limi­tations. 
The meeting was well attended— the largest that we have had in years. Quite a ntmiber of the recent gradu­ates were present, which is a very good sign,,as we need the interest of the younger blood to carry on a suc­cessful club. 
We were very happy to have had a flying visit from FATHER HUGH O'DONNELL during the early part of the month. Father Hugh was in to«'n in the interest of the Univer­sity, and I was glad to be able to spend a few hours with him; took dinner with him and ED MORIARTY, after which naturally there was a discussion of Notre Dame and Notre Dame men. • We are always glad to have Father Hugh drop in on us. 
Saturday morning, March 9, we routed out five of the old regulars, LEE DUBOIS, LARRY JANSZEN, FRANK SWEENEY, JOE MORRIS­SEY, and myself, and we met George Keogan and the basketball team. I came in for a lot of grief because in order to be sure of being on time, I had the boys report at 7:20 A.M. and the train did not arive until 8:10. I had a terrible time explaining that I had been given the wrong time by the railroad. 
I am sure that the Prefect of Disci­pline will be glad to hear that we took the boys to the Church of the Assumption where they all received Holy Communion; then to- the Kem­per Lane Hotel, which is under the management of FRANK SWEENEY, 
N.D. '18, had quite a nice gab fest with George Keogan; and.then saw them trounce Xavier in a very fine game that evening. Quite a number of the Alumni called at the hotel to pay their respects to Mr. Keogan and the team. We sincerely hope that this game will become a yearly affair. 
Cincinnati had two very fine rep­resentatives from the University speak at Irish Day banqeuts Satur­day night, March 16. The Hon. Shane Leslie talked at the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick Banquet at the Nether-land Plaza Hotel and REV. P-A.T­RICK J. CARROLL, C.S.C, spoke at the Irish Fellowship Club Banquet at the Hotel Alms. Your humble servant rendered a couple of Irish ditties at the latter affair. 
Well, Jim, this is about all the news. In closing, let me again thank you for your many kindnesses during the past years. Extend my good 
wishes to all the good fathers and brothers of the Holy Cross Order and to all my friends. 
With sincere personal regards to you and the family, I remain, HOGAN MORRISSEY. 
CLEVELAND NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF CLEVELAND— William R. Ryan, 'll, 1SS4 Rosclinil Ave.. East Qevcland. President: Pierce .1. O Con­nor. '28. 1044 Hanna Bids., Qevcland. Secretary. 
Local Club news seems to have eluded me of late, and even "WIN­CHELL" HAAS, who sees all, knows all, has no scoops to offer. However, a little judicious double-spacing may make the column look as though your scribe still has his ear to the ground. 
The annual Retreat, held the first week-end of Lent at St. Stanislaus Novitiate in Parma, was the best at­tended of any we have had. A lot of the fellows who had been unable to attend in other years were there this year, and commented enthusiastically on their experience. JOHN IGOE again officiated as a sen.'er. 
For the first time in twenty-odd years, Cleveland had a 'St. Patrick's Day parade. R-A-Y MILLER and BILL RYAN helped represent the Club and did some very superlative marching. DAN DUFFY deserted the state capital to attend the eve­ning celebration here as Governor Davey's representative. 
As in past years, we are again awarding a trophy to the Catholic scholastic basketball champs. The cup this year goes to Holy Name High, coached through a victorious season by "GEEVER" GAVIN and AL GRISANTI. 
The Easter dance is shaping up nicely. It will be a supper dance, at Guild Hall, on Monday, .4pril 22. 
OTIS WINCHESTER has recently gone into the insurance field with Northwestern Mutual, and is going great. Another of our insurance-minded alunmi, JACK DUFFY, was promoted recently and is now in New York, in the home office of Royal Fire Insurance Company. 
The Club has arranged to attend in a body the annual memorial Mass for KNUTE ROCKNE, to be said by FATHER M. L. MORIARTY at the Cathedral, at 11:30 A.M., Monday, April 1. Luncheon at CHUCK ROHR'S will follow. 
HOWARD RICHARDS is Chair­man of the arrangements for Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, April 29, and at last reports, had everything set for an evening get-together at the Turnverein, where some attention will be given to the current bock beer situation. 
PIERCE O'CONNOR, 
Secretary. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CONNECTI­CUT VALLEY—Tliomas E. Fersruson. •26. 37 Windsor St.. Thompsonvillc. Cbnn.. Presi­dent: Francis D. Ahem. •29, 1 Welstcr St., Hartford. Conn., Secretarj-. 
Although you have not been fur­nished with a report of late regarding the activities of the Connecticut Val­ley Club, the reason was not oversight or neglect, but rather the report was being held in abeyance until such time definite advices might be fur­nished. 
-\s you know, our activities have been concentrated on the visit of EL­MER LAYDEN and arrangements incidental to such visit. The better way of submitting the report seems to outline Elmer Layden's \-isit in a chronological manner. 
Sunday, February 24, at 4:51, he arrived in Hartford, acompanied by 
J. ARTHUR HALEY. After regis­tering. Father Quinlan, our chaplain, called to take Layden, Haley, TOM FERGUSON, DINNY SHAY, and the writer to St. Thomas's Seminary to be the guests of the Most Rev. Maurice F. McAuliff^e, Bishop of Hartford, at an informal dinner. 
After the dinner we adjourned to the recreation rooms until 7:30 at which time, Layden was presented to the student body, approximately 225. Pictures of the 1934 games were shown, to the enjoyment of all pres­ent, according to the comments heard. 
Father O'Brien, president of the Seminary, then introduced Father Quinlan, who is a member of the fac­ulty at St. Thomas. Fr. Quinlan talked about the "Spirit of Notre Dame"—more about this later—and then introduced Elmer. After his in­formal address, Elmer offered to an­swer questions the students might have. The boys had plenty of them and many difficult ones. Truly, Jim, I have never seen such spontaneous enthusiasm manifested toward Notre Dame since some of the famous rallies held at school. There seems to be no doubt as to the school in which these boys have the most interest. 
Monday afternoon, Layden was pre­sented to an audience of approximate­ly 350 Catholic High School youths from Hartford and immediate vicin­ity at the Knights of Columbus Hall. The program was similar to that of the preceding evening; he was intro­duced by Father Quinlan, addressed the body and pictures were shown. 
Monday evening, he spoke on the radio at 7:05 from WTIC, 50,000 kilo­cycles, rushed to the dinner at the City Club, spoke for about twenty minutes and rushed to catch the train from Hartford to Springfield. 
From the itinerary outlined, you can appreciate his time was pretty well taken up, and acquiescing to your request not to plan too much, we omitted a few minor things. Ap­parently, the Eastern clime was sat­isfactory to Layden and Haley as they said their rest Sunday evening was the best they had for some time. 
The "Press" cooperated most gen­erously in giving us space before and after Layden's visit. Clippings from the local papers, The Times and The Coiirant are enclosed. No doubt you will find them of interest and it will be appreciated if you will refer them to Layden and Haley. 
The school may well be proud of Layden. He is certainly all to be de­sired as a true representative of Notre Dame. A very favorable im­pression was created as a result of his visit. From comments received it appears the general reaction to his appearance was regret that he could not talk longer—but it was appreci­ated that this could have not been otherwise under the existing condi­tions. 
JOHNNY L.A.W entertained most successfully—speaking highly of No­tre Dame and ROCKNE, intersper­sing his talk with some very good jokes. 
Father Quinlan, referred to above, spoke on the "Spirit of Notre Dame" and in such a forceful manner that several people told me that his speech alone was well worth attending the dinner for. Really, it was a honey. It opened the eyes to all as to the real Notre Dame. He received a tre­mendous ovation. I had heard the speech on two previous occasions, the address to the St. Thomas boys and to the High School boys Monday af­ternoon and it gave me a real thrill each time. 
I had hoped to be able to attach a copy, if any, for you but as yet I have not received one. If I do, I'll send it along. 
.4fter the speeches and just prior to showing the pictures, Cyril War­ren announced a prayer would be said by Father Quinlan in memory of "Rock." It seemed to me to be a beautiful thought and—^needless to say—very impressive. 
As a result of the visit by Layden and Haley and the attendant affairs, I can truthfully say that Notre Dame has been more strongly and truthfully strengthened in the minds of the peo­ple in this vincinity. The people now realize the significance and impor­tance of Notre Dame—over and above her football prowess. Direct contact was made to approximately 600 high school boys, 225 men—fathers, broth­ers, relatives, and priests. Of course, it is difficult to predict the result of work of this nature but the reactions noted lead me to believe that the en­rollment of the Connecticut Valley boys in the near future will be mate­rially increased. 
We appreciate that our first major step sponsored by the Club is a suc­cess and we do not intend to stop at this point, but rather to continue to let the people learn of Notre Dame. Tentative plans are being considered along these lines. 

Of course, we fully realize that our end of the work could not have re­ceived its good start mthout the as­sistance of your office and we, per­haps, can appreciate to a slight extent the inconveniences we caused you. Please be assured we do appre­ciate your cooperation, Layden's and Haley's and the school's. 
The cooperation received by the Club from Bishop Maurice McAuliffe was of the highest order. It was a compliment to Notre Dame, I feel, to have him invite Layden and Haley to dine with him and then allow Layden to address the student body. I have been told that he was the first layman to address boys. 
Your announcement regarding No­tre Dame Night sounds like the real McCov and we are pleased to see WTIC and WDRC listed. As sug­gested, we will soon meet to arrange for the occasion and expect to make it a real event. 
Please extend to Elmer and Haley the Club's heartiest thanks for their visit, their amiable attitude, courte­ous cooperation and the genial man­ner in which they acquiesced to our requests. We are indeed grateful to them and we hope we did not over­do it. 
Well, Jim, there may be points I have overlooked, but I have tried to cover them all. Although this report is quite voluminous, I hope it will be of interest to you. 
Best personal regards. FR.A.NCIS D. AHERN, Secretary. 
P. S. JACK LAVELLE and JOHN­NIE LAW'S brother-in-law, Sweeney, accompanied Law to Hartford. JOHN­NY SMITH left February 21 to take up his new duties in Pittsburgh. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DALLAS. TEXAS —James P. Swift. '24. 1202 Southwestern Life Bldf;., Dallas. President: Francis A. McCuIIouBh. "30. 917 First National Banli Bide:.. Dallas, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON—Amos Qay, 'IB. Union Trust Bldsr.. President: An­drew A. Aman, Jr.. '30, 210 Lcxin^on Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER—Robert Dick. '29, 930 Grant St., President: Harry Lawrence, '29, 1951 Lawrence St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES— James C. Sliaw, '22. 307 Equitable Bide., President: F. M. Wcndcrlin, '29, 302 Hnb­bell BIdff.. Secrctarj*. 
DETROIT 
NOTRE D.A.ME CLUB OF DETROIT—Wil­lard Crotty, '29. 830 Calvert Ave.. President: Robert Beaty, '30, 1S074 Ohio Ave.. Secre­tary. 
WILLARD CROTTY, who has been the vice-president, is succeeding me as president of the Detroit club and should be recognized accordingly on your records. Bill's address is 830 Calvert Ave. 
My own time has been so limited this winter that the club has suffered as a result. In fact, I have not found a busy newspaper office a very good spot from which to try to turn an alumni club. Bill, I think, will be able to give more time—with benefit to everybody. 
Bill is going ahead with plans for April 29 and either he or Beaty will let you know the final arrangements. I am planning to get away for a much needed rest and vacation, but I am hopeful I will be back in time to share with the rest of the crowd the events of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
All of us here in Detroit have been saddened by the death of FATHER CAVANAUGH. Certainly there is a , vacancy in the hearts of Notre Dame men that no one else on the campus can fill. 
CHARLES MOLZ. 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBLV—James D. Hayes. '17. 4BI2 MorKan Drive. Chevy Chase. Md.. President: Harry M. Ambrose. '25. 1722-19th St.. N.W.. Secretarj*. 
We successfully put on our first dance on February 15 at the Ward-man Park Hotel and had a very de­lightful evening. We had more than a hundred couples and wish I could list all the names. Committees con­sisted of the following: 
THOMAS GARVEE, of the Labor Department, distinguished guests; HARRY AMBROSE, of the Archi­tect's Office, Treasury, publicitv; RUDOLPH RICE, of the Tariff Com­mission, floor committee; BERNARD 
E. LOSHBOUGH, architect in the Procurement Division, Treasury De­partment, tickets; THOMAS M.A.RK­EY, local attorney, invitations, and the undersigned of the Veterans Ad­ministration, general chairman. 
Everj'one worked hard. Our guest of honor was Senator Minton of In­diana, and he seemed quite surprised to know there were so many Notre Dame men in the Capitol. We are now going into our shell until Univer­sal Notre Dame Night in April but hope then to again get into the lime­light. 
I received a copy of the -recent .4LUJINUS and have had a number of calls for extra copies. Think it is the best that has been produced for years and should be very helpful in advertising the school. I am wonder­ing if we could get fifty extra copies for distribution to friends of the club who are interested. If so, please ship them to my address and I will do the distributing. 
I had a very pleasant visit Avith ELMER LAYDEN and ART HAL­EY recently and am sorry they could not have arranged the trip so as to have been with us for the dance. We are looking for Elmer back for the Catholic University dinner in May. 
With kindest personal regards and hoping you will give us a little no­tice in the next issue regarding the success of our party, I am. 
Sincerely, JIM HAYES. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE. PA.—Rich­ard D. Daley, *17, Erie Dailu Times, Presi­dent: Thomas Barber, '24, 416 Newman St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY—James Murphy, '22, 611 Semrity BIdfr., BridfTeport, Conn.. President; Joseph 
B. Russo, '32, 166 Houch Ave., Bridgeport, Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE— Robert Esseman, '30, Old First Banic Bids.. President: Thomas McKieman, '27, Fort Wayne National Banlc. Secretary. 
GOGEBIC RANGE 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE GOGEBIC RANGE—Victor E. Lemmer. '26, P.O. Box 
661. Irunwxiod, Mich., President; Harold C. Cannon, '13, Curry Hotel, Ironwood, Mich., Secretary. 
Acting upon the suggestion of DR. 
D. M. NIGEO, of Kansas City, the Gogebic Range Notre Dame Club held a Knute Rockne Memorial Banquet on March 4 at the Curry Hotel in Ironwood, Michigan. There were present alumni and guests from the Gogebic County mining range, and also from .Ashland, Wisconsin. 
After the banquet, I showed my moving picture film depicting the last events in the life of Rockne. 
During the Christmas holidays, our Club also had a meeting. In addi­tion to the alumni, there were present the students from here now attending the University. 
ARTHUR T. CAVEND.A.R, '33, of Wakefield, Michigan, is in the ac­counting services of Haskins & Sells, with headquarters at Chicago, 111. -•it present he is on an accounting task which is being supervised by JEROME BENNING, '25. 
-Attorney THOMAS McKEVITT, '34, of Ironwood, Michigan, recently became affiliated ^vith the legal de­partment of the Federal Government in one of the New Deal programs; his headquarters are at Marquette, Michigan. 
JOSEPH GILL, '32, of Wakefield, Michigan, has an executive position with the Federal Emergency Relief with headquarters at Ironwood. 
TED NOLAN, '33, of Ironwood, Michigan, is an instructor in the schools at Iron Belt, Wisconsin. 
Kindly, give my regards to BILL DOOLEY, ART HALEY;— and to those who may inquire, tell them that the Lemmers are under quarantine with a measles sign on their door. 
With kindest wishes, I am, VICTOR F. LEMMER. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAPIDS, MICH.—Geoote E. Ludwi?, '25, 328 Glen-haven Ave.. N. W., President: Raymond J, Bonini, '27, 2460 Oakwood Dr., S.E., Sec­retary. 
GREEN BAY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY— Harold L. Londo, *24, City Ensineers* OtEce. City Hall, Green Bay, Wis., President; Levi 
A. Geniesse, '24. 610 Minahan Bids.. Green Bay, Wis., Secretary. 

JOE BOLAND, assistant football coach, pleased an enthusiastic Rockne memorial dinner-meeting of a hun­dred or more when he appeared in Green Bav on March 4. HAROLD LONDO and LEVI GENIESSE were co-chairmen in charge of the gathei-­ing and State Assemblyman BOBBY LYNCH presided. Despite a sprained ankle that necessitated a cane. Mayor JOHN DIENER was present, as were the local high school coaches, high school students and many alumni, former students and friends of the University. Joe showed the football movies and, to use his own words, "they met with a great reception in football-minded Green Bay." He also discussed the nile changes and Notre Dame's football prospects for next year. 
Professor NORB ENGELS, '2G, was in Green Bay, his "home town," on March 25, to attend the College Daj- programs at the high schools. He discussed Noti-e Dame with many interested prospective students. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF HAJflLTON. OHIO—M. O. Bums, '86. 338 S. Second St.. President: Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rcnt­schler Bids.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAWATHA­LAND— Nonnan Bartholomew. '15, 225 Qeveland Ave.. Iron Mountain, Mich.. Pres­ident: Michael S. Corry, '27, 837 Terrace Ave., Marinette, Wis.. Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON—M. E. Walter. '14, 1702 Stuart Ave., Houston. Texas, President: T. F. Green, Jr., '27, Conroe, Texas, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAPOLIS —Harry Scott, '17, 838 N. Delaware St. President: John Carton, '28, City Hall, En­gineering Dept.. Secretary. 
JOLIET 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET—Robert Duffy, '31, 213 N. Hickorj-. President: Ed­ward H. Kins. 301 Ruiiy St., Secretai-y. 
TOM FEELY gave nie the card he received from you re the Joliet news for ALUMXUS. The annual elec­tion of officers took place at the last meeting. The results were as follows: 
President, ROBERT DUFFY; vice-president, THOMAS P. FEELY; Sec­retary - Treasurer, EDWAR D H. KING. 
The combined clubs of St. Mary's and N. D. gave a very successful dance St. Patrick's Night. Everybody reported a good time. 
On March 4 we celebrated the birthday of the late Mr. Rockne, with twenty members bein g present. FRANCIS DUNN spoke over WCLS, Joliet Station, for 30 minutes. Rev. Fr. Adrian of the Carmeh'te Fathers spoke at the dinner. Both gave great honor to Rock as a man and a coach. 
James Bothwick, father of Tom Bothwick, '09-'10, of baseball fame, died last week. 
A committee is working on a loca­
tion for club rooms on a very prom­
inent comer. 
ED. H. KING. 
Report of visit to Joliet and Lock-port, Illinois on March 12, 1935, by Louis F. Buckley and Benjamin Du-Bois: 

We visited Lockport High School, where I spoke to the assembly at 9:30 
A.M. ED KING, ROBERT DUFFY, and TOM FEELY accompanied us there. Excellent arrangements were made by Agnes Lennon, graduate of St. Mary's College, who is a member of the faculty of the school, and we extend to her our sincere thanks. 
I [Buckley] spoke to an assembly of 2,500 students at Joliet Township High School later in the morning, where I was acompanied by ED KING. .A.t noon I had luncheon with a number of the Notre Dame men, in­cluding JOE ADLER, BOB DUFFY, TOM FEELY, ED KING, CHUCK LENNON, DR. ED. MAYER, and JOE SILK. In the afternoon I spoke before the seniors at the Catholic High School. 
The Joliet Club, through Ed King, handled all general arrangements for our appearances. 
KANSAS CITY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS CITY— Daniel F. Foley, '23, 25 Wint Ave.. PL Leavenworth, Kansas, President; John M. Dugan. '27, 7401 Terrace Ave., Kansas City, Mo., Secretary. 
BIRTHDAY SUGGESTION—Con­tact the N.D. club in K.C., Mo. I had the pleasure of celebrating mine (Feb. 22) there . . . DOC (D. MIKE) NIGRO met me at the train and whisked me to his office, where DAN FOLEY, president of the K.C. club, ED (TINY) McGRATH, and ROME (JOHN) DUGAN lay in ambush. .A.fter lunch Dan and Rome escorted me to K.C, Kans., where I was to see Fr. O'Connor. We failed in our mis­sion, unfortunately, in spite of there being two Fr. O'Connors in K.C., Kans. Had dinner with Mike Nigro and the DUFFY BEOS., the latter pre-War schoolmates of your corre­spondent. After dinner, a showing of the Army and So. Cal. games: Met a group of K.C. alumni and o.s. but before I had time to reinforce a weak memory for names was whisked away to present the Nigro-Notre Dame trophy to Al Rozgay, most valu­able H.S. footballer in K.C. last fall (a crowd of 8,500, one of whom in­vited the management to throw the speaker a fish in tribute to his well-trained remarks); after that we whisked to a radio station; and after that we whisked to the hockey game. MOON MULLINS drove over from Atchison, and provided the moral sup­port until midnight. So, wisk! to bed. (FRED MANCUSO, by the way, gave me some background informa­
tion on young Rozgay . . . JIM BR.AY 
was there, too., I am an old admirer 
of Jim's basketball technique.) In­
tended to leave Friday night but 
schedule and K.C. hospitality would 
not permit. Saturday .A..M., Dan and 
Rome recalled that Friday was my 
birthday. Informal post-anniversary 
ceremonies ensued. . . . NOTE FOR 
DI.\RY: Sunday A.M., off for home. 
CHET GRANT. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ICANSAS—Albert 
J. Gebert. '30. U. of Wichita, Wichita. President: Dan Welchons, '30, 306 E. 13th St., Hutchinson, Secretary. 
NOTRE D.iVME CLUB OF KENTUCKY— Eugene J. Steuerle, '25, 1439 Willow Ave., Louisville, Ky., President; John Bannon. '32. 2011 Sherwood. Louisville, Ky.. Secre­tary. 
LAPORTE 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LAPORTE. IN­DIANA—A. Gordon Taylor, '18, 1507 Indi­ana Ave., LaPorte. President: Norroan Duke. '33. 304 Niles St., Laporte, Secretary. 

GORDON TAYLOR is the local chairman in charge of Knights of Columbus Mobilization for Catholic -Auction. TIM GALVIN, president of the Alumni Association and a su­preme director of the K. of C. was the principal speaker at an open meeting which Gordon arranged on March 17. 
Gordon, reported when he was over for FATHER CAVANAUGH'S fu­neral, that the club was cbnsidering plans for a Universal Notre Dame Night banquet which would include the ladies as well as the gentlemen. More announcements later. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUISIANA­
MISSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke. '88. 307 Camp 
St., New Orleans, President; Cyprian A-
Sporl, Jr., '28, Whitney-Central Bids.. New , 
Orleans. Secretary. 

Pardon the delay in responding to your recent alumni circulars but have been crowded with the Mardi Gras season and visitors. 
Had the pleasure of having PAUL JOHNSON and his wife down here to visit me for Mardi Gras, together with Jim Boylan and his wife, who are warm Notre Dame supporters and followers from Forest Hills, New York. 
TOM SHERIDAN of New Jersey and his "side-kick" Sargent were also here for Carnival. BILL HIL­DERBRAND and his wife were like­wise down here. I understand that FRANK CROWLEY was in to%vn but did not get a chance to see him. 
About a month ago the writer also had the pleasure of meeting and go­ing fishing ^vith HAROLD CON­NICK, presently of New York, and Assistant United States Manager for the Royal Liverpool group of insur­ance companies. Harold was a great friend of Rockne's. As a matter of fact, they both started college to­gether at Notre Dame and also played football together for a short time. He then left Notre Dame to attend Villanova. Harold is one of our foremost admirers and backers in the East and very seldom misses any of the Notre Dame games regardless where played. 
Our dear President, PAT BURKE, held a luncheon on March 4 in honor of our late beloved mentor, Kock. 
The Crescent City Jockey Club re­cently conducted a College Day pro­gram down here at the Fair Grounds and Notre Dame was well repre­sented by the BURKES, DE LA VERGNES and SPORLS; together with their guests who acted as spon­sors. The horse carrying our colors ran second. 
The foregoing just about covers all the news that has come to my atten­tion. 
With kindest personal regards and best wishes, beg to remain, CYP SPORL. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOS ANGELES— Thomas Hearn, '25. 1120 Pacific Finance Bldf?., President: Douglas Daley, '30, 781 Ceres Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP MANILA—Jaoobo Zobel. '23, Manila, P.L President: A. F. Gon2.-Ucs. '23. Insular Life Bids., 2nd Fl.. Manila. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ME.irPHIS—Wal­ter J. Fransioli. Jr., '34. 2IS N. McLean Blvd.. President: Theon Dohoene, '27, 1072 
S. Wellington St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CEJNTRAL MICH­IGAN—Joseph W. Stack, '15, 102S Chester­field Pkwy.. East Lansing, President: Charles J. O'Connor, '33. Carsnn City. Jlich­i;r:in. Secretary. 
NOTRE D.AME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE— 
P. Dudley Pearson, '19, 2037 N. Lake Drive. President: John Clauder, '34, 735 N. Water St., temporary secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MONTANA—Earl 
W. Brown, '93, 320 Power St., Helena, Pres­ident: James B. O'Flynn, '11, Great Falls, Secretary, 
NEW YORK CITY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK—Edward A. Falten. '2G, 2 Lafayette St„ President: J, Norbert Gelson, Jr., '26, 1201 Troy Ave., Brooklyn. Secretary. 
Plans have been made for the members of the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York to pay their respects at the home of Joe Sullivan in Belle Harbor on Friday Night, March 22. The club will also be. present in a body at the Mass and funeral the following day. 
The annual election of ten new members to the Board of Governors will be held in the Centre Club on Tuesday, March 26. The nominating committee has proposed the following members for election: WILLL4.M CRONIN, JAMES M. CURRY, WAL­TER A. DONNELLY, DAN D. H-A.L­PIN, JOHN V. HINKEL, JOHN T. BALFE, WILLIAM A. DAUNT, ROBERT HAMILTON, JOHN HOYT, and HARRY SYLVESTER. 
A petition has been filed proposing the following members: JOHN B. LAW, D-ANIEL J. O'NEIL, ED­WARD T. TIGHE, WARREN S. FOGEL, ANDREW J. SHIEBLER, JOHN T. BALFE, WILLLA-M A, DAUNT, LESTER C. GR.ADY, HER­BERT P. GIORGIO, and JOHN J. HAYES. 
The Annual Rockne Communion Breakfast will take place this year of the anniversarj- of Rock's death, March 31. The members of the club will attend Mass at St. Patrick's Ca­thedral, and breakfast will be sen'ed at the Centre Club. 
Until next time, DOC GELSON. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NASHVILLE— 
Robert P. Williams, Jr.. '29, 106 Gallatin 
Road, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JERSEY— 
B. K. Wingerter, '26, 113 S. Qinton St., East Orange, New Jersey, President: Ed­ward Hargan, '26, 17S De Witt Ave., Belle­ville. New Jersey, Sccreta:y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA—Royal H. Bosshard, '17, 324 Sansnme St., San Francisco, President: Robert B. Hill, '23. .=1033 Proctor Ave.. Oak­land. Secretary. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO —Raymond J. Eichenlaub, '15, Hoster Real­ty BIdg., Columbus, President. 
The Central Ohio Club is going right along. Stag for Universal Notre Dame night, April 29, Chittenden Hotel, Columbus. 
This club has always enjoyed the cooperation of alumni and old stu­dents of the following towns. Please publish and let them know we want them to join us in all undertakings. It is difficult to keep in touch by mail, but we would certainly be glad to hear from them, and look after their interest, in event they are not in position to organize. 
Springfield, Urbana, Circleville, Chillicothe, Delaware, Marion. 
Newark, Zanesville, Lancaster, Lo­gan, New Lexington, Washington Court House. 
Marysville, London, Bellefontaine, Mt. Gilead, Mt. Vernon, Coshocton. 
If we ovei-looked any other spot, we apologize. We ask them to con­tact us if they would celebrate that evening of reunion. 
Luncheons have been receiWng fine response. .A.t last meeting it was agreed to meet once a week instead of twice monthly. The luncheon dates have therefore been changed to ever}' Monday noon. University Club, 40 South Third Street remains the meet­ing place. 
R.A.YJ. EICHENL.A.UB. 

On Februarj' 16 from noon until midnight the "Central Ohio" alcmni enjoyed a round up in the spacious rooms set aside for our stag party at the Knights of Columbus home. 
More than two hundred ran in on us. There were not many from out of town, but a few of the boys came a long way to join the frolic. We called it successful. We want rep­resentation from the nearby towns where there are not enough men to make a crowd. We hope they will read these articles and communicate. They are certainly welcome, and their support is most desirable to us. 
The date of our next activity will be announced, and certainly it will not be later than Universal Notre Dame Night, April 29. However, we repeat that our limcheon dates are fi.\ed for each Monday at the Uni­versity Club, 40 South Third Street. 
RAY J. EICHENLJVUB. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA— Jos. A. Moran, '32. 1611 S. Carson. Tulsa. Okla., President: Norbert F. Skelly, '25, University Club, Tulsa. Okla., Secretary. 
OREGON 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREGON—Frank 
T. Collier, '08, 721 Yeon Building. Portland. President: William C. Schmitt. '10, Consol­idated Equipment Co., Portland, Secretary. 
JACK NAFTZGER, o.s. 1928-31, has transferred his residence from Sioux City, Iowa and is now making things hum for the -\etna Casualty Ins. Co. His address is c-o Bates, Lively and Pearson, Portland, Ore. Last information is that Jack is still a bachelor. 
Had a nice visit recently with JAMES L. HOPE, Law 1911. Jim is a prominent attorney in .Astoria, Ore., as w-ell as being one of the best natured winning golfers in the As­toria Golf & Country Club. His daughter, Mary Louise, is a freshman at the University of Oregon, and his three boys are growing up into fine future prospects for Notre Dame. The charming Mrs. Hope is a sister of LEO and BILL CONLIN, both old students at Notre Dame. Jim's business life started when he man­aged the varsity in 1910, which is best remembered as the year the im­mortal KNUTE ROCKNE came to Notre Dame. 
Columbia University, which was the preparatory training ground for many of Notre Dame's famous ath­letic stars is no more. In its place is the University of Portland, a fuJI fledged school of high collegiate standards destined to furnish future history for the Pacific Coast under the direction of the order of C.S.C. REV. JOSEPH BOYLE, C.S.C. is the new president, REV. MICHAEL EARLY, CS.C,, Vice President. 
While this date is a little tardy, I want to thank ANTON HEBEN­STREIT, C.E. 1911, for a very pleas­ant visit OTth him some months ago at his home in Albuquerque, N. Mex. "Heb" is the executive head of the New Mexico Construction Company, one of the large contracting firms of the Southwest, and we spent some very enjoyahle hours rehashing our days together at Notre Dame. 
EON SULLIVAN, Ph.B. 1930, is with his father in the Sullivan Lum­ber Co., Board of Trade Bldg., Port­land, Oregon. 
JIM CULLIG.AJSr, M.E. 1921, is the secretary and treasurer of the new University of Portland. 
GEORGE PHILBROOK, 1911, one of Notre Dame's best known football and track stars of that day, was re­cently appointed track coach at the Univ. of Portland. "Phil's" coaching career includes berths at Multnomah 
A.A. Club, Univ. of Idaho, Univ. of Nevada, and Whittier College. If "Phil" teaches his new charges how to do things the way he did them for Notre Dame and the 1912 Olym­pic teams, the future of his new work is very bright. 
MORRISON CONWAY, C.E. 1914, is head of the Cascade Construction Company, 87 S.E. Main St., Portland, Ore. From information believed to be authentic, but not guaranteed, "Morrie" is kept busy providing for five little Conway girls. 
WILLI.4M C. SCHMITT, '10. 
PHILADEPHIA 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADELPHIA 
^AuEust Dcsch, *23. 1421 N. Broad St.. 
Premdent; Wm. E. Cooney. '21. 5725 McMa­
hon Ave,, Secretary. 

With apologies for the lateness of my report on the activities in the Philadelphia and here is a very good view of the alumni around town. 
Of course the news of the month is that the basketball team met Tem­ple there. It was a tough game, especially after they put on such a rally in the second half. The club had a section reser\'ed for Notre Dame rooters that was well filled. 
On March 31 the members will at­tend Mass at the Cathedral and re­ceive Holy Communion in memory of KNUTE K. ROCKNE on the an­niversay of his death. A Communion breakfast will follow the Mass. Fur­ther spiritual activity ^v^ll be shown by a large number of the alumni at­tending a laymen's retreat at Mal­vern, April 5. 
It was a pleasure at our March meeting to welcome JOE FARRELL who takes care of the Harrisburg sit­uation. Congratulations were in or­der for the happy trio who had en­tered the matrimonial seas recently. 
Concerning some of the members— TOM BYRNE is a regular at the meetings, dropping in after class at Temple Law School. TOM MAGEE, JACK KENNY, and BOB FLINT are also law students. CH.A.RLIE DOUGHERTY is quite a political student these days. WALT PHILIPP is receiving praise for his work in 
conducting the Ro.xborough Sym­phony Orchestra. I certainly hope your plans for a national radio hook-up on Universal 

N. D. Night materialize. We are working out our plans for the big night, and have expectations to see our biggest turnout ever present. Will be able to give you more details next month on this. 
BILL COONEY. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS—Holdcra 
of Permanent Seats: Louis P. Harl, *16. 
Paris Office, N. Y. Heruti. 

EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EAST. PENN­SYLVANIA—Leo R. Mclntyre, '28. Bethle­hem. Pa., President. 
Tills is to acknowledge your re­cent card, clamoring for news. I hope the following tid-bits will arrive in time to make your dead line. I pride myself on being able to make dead lines, the Notre-Dame ALUMNUS excluded. 
Approximately five hundred per­sons attended the Rockne Memorial Dinner, which was held at the Ma­sonic Temple, Bethlehem, on the night of March 4. HARRY STUHL­DREHER, head football coach at Villanova College, and quarterback of Notre Dame's immortal Four Horsemen eleven, was the principal speaker. Harry paid a fine tribute to his former tutor, the late and la­mented KNUTE KENNETH ROCK­NE, great coach and gallant gentle­man. Professor H. R. Reiter, head of the Department of Physical Edu­cation at Lehigh University, also lauded Rock. 
The East-Penn Notre Dame Club will hold a dinner in observance of Universal Notre Dame Night on April 29 at 7:00 P.M. at the Hotel Allen, Allentown. There will be mu­sic, both vocal and instrumental and several acts of vaudeville. The an­nual election of officers will be held at the same time. 
JOHN J. ANTUS, former fellow Preshman-Hallite at Notre Dame, re­cently sent me a letter conveying the good tidings that he is now a busy barrister close to bustling Broadway. His office is located at 41 East 42nd Sti-eet, New York City. John is at least one Latrobe, Pennsylvania, boy who has made good in the big city. He used to play quarterback for FA­THER MHCE MULCAIRE'S Fresh­man Hall team. 
During the past month I have re­ceived several welcome messages from JACK E. CHEVIGNY, head football coach at the University of Texas, Austin, Texas. Jack, at some length points out that the Southern colleges and universities do not play football the year around, but are lim­ited to exceedingly short spring training sessions. He said that the rules of the Southern Conference forbid any of its members holding spring practices exceeding 31 days in duration. He made the following statement: "We are ha^•ing a difficult time keeping that Rockne offense in forward motion without the master's presence but I believe that if all keep driving on the right hand side of the road, we will be able to over­come our opponents." He mentioned that Minnesota had been scheduled as one of his 1936 foes and expressed regret that his team would be un­able to tackle next year's strong Go­pher gridiron array. 
On March 10 I received another interesting letter from THOMAS C. MAHON, who like Chevigny, was a member of the class of 1928. Tom informed me that he has moved from Superior, Wisconsin to Duluth, Min­nesota. He also informed me that TED TWOMEY, former great Notre Dame tackle, was operated on for ap­pendicitis several weeks ago and is now up and around. He stated that JOE BENDA is going great guns as director of athletics at St. John's College and that MARK NOLAN is "going great" as a member of the State legislature. Tom is not doing so badly himself as an employee of Thomson & McKinnon, Brokers, Tor­rey Building, Duluth, Minnesota. I am going to ask LOUIE BUCKLEY, our class secretary, to recommend him to Lowell Thomas' Tall Story Club. In his recent letter he writes: "During January we had what might be called frigid weather. The cold­est was 38 or 40 below. That, broth­er, is a heap of cold. For one solid week the thermometer never strug­gled above 30 below. When it finally got back to as warm as 20 below, there were reports of sunstroke and the papers were talking about a heat wave." 
My scrivening to you has been spasmodic, I know, but I assure you that ray next letter, due sometime in May, will give you all the details of our Universal Notre Dame Night ob­servance. I trust this will be satis­factory. 
Please give my best wishes to BILL DOOLEY and all others at Notre Dame who might remember me. 
LEO R. McI>npyEE. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PEORIA—Emest 
C. Hechinccr. '.12. 301 Barker St.. President: AI Gury. '28. 612 Albany Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHOENIX —E . John Hilkert. '22. Box 62. President: Julius 
J. Danch. '2.1. mx N. 20th Ave. Sccre(.-iry. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WEST. PENN­SYLVANIA—Francis J. Wilson. '28. 1217 Melvem. Pittsburch. President: Edward .7. O'Brien. Jr., 446 Wood Street PittiburBh. Secretary. 
At our weekly luncheon on Thurs­day, March 14, an election of officers for the coming year was held. FRAN­CIS J. (FRITZ) WILSON was elect­ed president to succeed ED BYRNES, and automatically became a director of the club succeeding DR. LEO O'DONNELL, whose five-year term had expired. The other officers are: CHARLES E. SHEEDY, vice-presi­dent; JAMES V. BURKE, treasurer; and EDWARD J. O'BRIEN, JR., sec­retary. The following are the direc­tors: FRANCIS J. WILSON, ED BYRNES, JACK SHEEDY, B. J. KAISER, and JOHN REARDON. 

It was decided at the luncheon on March 21 that the meeting place for these weekly affairs will be changed. The Varietj- Club on William Penn Way, directly across from the Wil­liam Penn Hotel, has been chosen. The first gathering here will be on the 28th of March. The new location is just about in the center of the busi­ness district and we hope the visiting alumni will join the boys each Thurs­day at noon. 
Nothing has been done as yet in preparation for Universal Notre Dame Night; but I will keep you in­formed as plans are made. And here's hoping I'll have more news for you next time. 
EDWARD J. O'BRIEN, JR. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER— James Jones. '22, 319 Ellwanser and Barry Bids., President; Frank Norton, '32, SO Beckwith Terrace. Secretary. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Raymond C. Marelli, '27. 1312 Younp St., Rockford. HI.. President: Francis 
W. Howland, '25. 902 N. Main St., Rock­ford. Rl., Secretary. 

Via JERRY JONES, who at­tended FATHER CAVANAUGH'S funeral on March 25, this news: the alumni of Dixon had a Mass said for Rock on March 4 and attended it in a body. 
The special sympathy of the alumni of the area was also extended to DR. DAVID MURPHY, '25, and DR. ED MURPHY, '31, on the death, in Dix­on, of their father, one of the Middle West's most illustrious and best known doctors. 
RHODE ISLAND 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP RHODE ISLAND —Leo R. McAloon. '27, 260 Pawtucket Ave., Pawtucket, R. I., President: John F. Mc-Kieman. '34, 206 Lockwood Ave, Providence, R, I., Secretary, 
The Rhode Island club sponsored on February 22 an informal dinner and reception honoring ELMER LAY­DEN. Held in the Narragansett Hotel, the affair attracted a large gathering of club membei-s and guests, both men and women. 
JOHN J. BRADY was general chairman. Those assisting him were: Invitation committee, CH-ARLES A. GRIMES, and JOHN J. FITZGER­JVLD of Newport and LEO R. Mc-ALOON, president of the Rhode Is­land Alumni Club, Publicity, J. CLEMENT GRIMES, ROBERT W. POWERS, JR., and JOHN STEELE. Reception committee, JOHN JOLLY, JR., JOHN J. BROWN, EUGENE MOREAU, JOHN FAG-A.N, and WIL-LliVM COOGAN. Hall committee, EUGENE MOREAU, GEORGE J. GRIMES, ROBERT DWYER, VIN­CENT A. DOYLE, and JOHN WA­TERS. Ticket committee, CHARLES 
A. GRIMES, CHARLES McLOUGH-LIN, JOHN McKIERNAN, CHARLES 
L. KIRBY, RUSSEL McGRATH, and HARRY BUCKLEY. Speakers com­mittee, JOHN J. FITZGERALD, of Pawtucket, JOHN ROURKE, JR., THOMAS COLLINS, GRAHAM NORTON, WALTER GOFF, MARIO NARDONE and CHARLES EUART. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SAN ANTONIO— William V. Dielraann. Jr.. '23, 107 Thelma Drive, President; Edward G, Conroy, '30. 204 B. Craie PI.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SIOUX CITY ­Vincent F. HarriniTton, '25, Continental HoTtgase Co,, President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS—Rob­ert HellrunB. '30. 306 N. Grand Blvd., Presi­dent: David J. Riellcy. Jr., '30. 107 A\Tjn­dell PI.. Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—William Sheehan. '25. 302 N. Main St, South Bend, Ind.. President; Francis Jones, '29, 802 I.O.O.F. Bide., Sooth Bend, Ind., Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK —W. Ed. Byrne, '26, Travelers Insurance Co., Syracuse, N.Y., President: Ward L. Leahy. '26. 307 Forest Hill Drive. Syracuse, N. Y.. Secretary. 
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP SPRINGFIELD— Mike F. Kinney, '31, State House, President: John Troy, e.N-. '2S, SOO S. Ninth St.. Sec­retary. 
The Springfield, Illinois Notr e Dame Club held its annual constitu­tional meeting for election of officers Monday, March 11, 1935 at the Knights of Columbus building. 
WILLIAM B. IRVINE, '07, was re­edected honorary president; MIKE 
F. KINNEY, '31, who is -vvith the Corporation Department, State of Illinois, was elected president, BER­NARD McGLONE, '31, vice-presi­dent, an'd JOHN TROY, e.x-'28, is sec­retary. 
The retiring officers are BUD ZIM­MERMAN, '26, President; EUGENE SCHWARTZ, '27, Vice President; BOB GRAHJ\.M, '2G, Secretary and Treasurer. 
A meeting was planned for March 26, for the purpose of appointing a committee for observance of Univer­sal Notre Dame Night. 
All members of the club express regret at BOB GR.A.HAM'S moving to Topeka, Kansas. Bob had much to do with the forming of the Spring­field club last year, and served as 
secretary-treasurer. He is now living at 1024 Taylor Street, Topeka. 
JOHN TROY. 

TRI-CITIES 
NOTRE DAHE CLUB OF TRI-CITIES— Richard B. Swift, '20, Kaii Blit., Daven­port. Iowa, President; Arthur L. Himbert. '32, 527 39th St., Rock Island. 111., Seera­taty, 
DICK SWIFT, president of the Tri-Cities club, sent the following mis­sive to club members on March 19: 
The present oflicers of this Club, with particular reference to the Pres­ident, feel that they have held office too long. 
A dinner meeting of this Club is called for Tuesday evening, -^pril 2, 1935, at 6:30 P.M., at the Ft. Arm­strong Hotel in Rock Island, Illinois, of which JOE WHALEN is manager. 
In addition to electing a new Pres­ident, two new Vice-Presidents, a Secretary and Treasurer, it will be necessary to have a Committee ap­pointed to take charge of the affairs for Universal Notre Dame Night. Stations WOC, Davenport, Iowa, and WHBF, Rock Island, Illinois, as well as WHO, Des Moines, have offered the facilities of their stations for part of the evening of April 29, 1935. 
Your President has no recommen­dations or suggestions to offer other than we should have a full attend­ance at the meeting on .A.pril 2, 1935. 
The ^vriter has asked RALPH CORYN, of Moline, HAYES IttUR-PHY. of Rock Island, and GEORGE VAJTOERVENNET, of Davenport, to assist in getting out the entire mem­bership. Please advise one of the above referred to parties, or the ^vi-iter, without delay whether or not you expect to attend. 
If any of you know of any new members who might not be on our mailing list, please furnish such in­formation to this office at once. 
TWIN CITIES 
TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— Eoeene A. O'Brien. '28, 15 S. Fifth St., Minneapolis. Minn., President; John D. Yd-land. '30, 3221 Holmes Ave.. S.. Minneapolis, Minn,, Secretary. 
President EUGENE O'BRIEN has just returned to Minneapolis from a two weeks trip out in the state for the Northern States Power Company, and will name a committee in the next few days to make plans for Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. 
J-A.CK DOYLE, 1927, was in Chi­cago a few weeks ago, representing the Standard Clothing Company of Minneapolis, at the National Retail­ers' Clothing Association. Jack had lunch with the Chicago club boys, and renewed old acquaintances. He said he also visited RAY McCLORY, 1927. Jack's young son, Robert Wil­
198 
liam Doyle, six months old is in spring training, and getting into con­dition for a tough summer season. 
PERCY WILCOX was telling me that JOHN PETRICH has been made chief clerk for Northern States Pow­er at Montevideo, Minnesota. TOM LEE, also of Northern States Power, said that he saw JOE O'HARA, of Glenco, at the auto show, and Joe had just bought himself a new car. TED TWOMEY was laid up in his home at Duluth as the result of an appendicitis operation. He is feeling fine now, however. 
DR. J. 51. CULLIGAN, St. Paul, gave a dry and operative clinic, be­fore the North Central division of the American College of Surgeons, last week. The doctor had a verj' nice ^•isit with FATHER J. J. BOYLE, president of Columbia, at Portland. DR. EDDIE GIBBS is practicing in St. Paul. 
PAUL CASTNER visited his home in St. Paul a few weeks ago. An­other old fullback, and one of the first at Notre Dame, TOM O'REGAN, 1892, is in the real estate business in St. Paul. PAUL McDERMOTT has started his own oil company, and is seriously considering going into the dairy business. 
JACK LAMPREY, lOOG, had lunch with Dr. CuUigan a few days ago. FRANTC MAYER is getting to be a very popular toastmaster and after dinner speaker in St. Paul. TOM GREEN is advertising amnager at the International Harvester Company in Minneapolis, and MARTY DOLAN is assistant manager at the Ford Motor Sales Company in St. Paul. Marty is playing handball four nights a week at the University, but is still in the hea^-yweight class. 
ART SULLIVAN is with the Royal Indemnity Company in St. Paul. JOHN LINDEN^ERG has his cloth­ing store in Hutchinson, Minnesota, and I understand is the father of a baby giri. CONNRAD SCHISSEL is in the grain business here in Minne­apolis. VINCENT MAUREN is with the Barber Oil Company. 
I saw MELVIN MAYER a few days ago, and he is a hard working accountant. BUD LIEMANDT is in the insurance business, and ROBERT TEGDOR plans to return to Notre Dame next fall. AL McEACHERN 
•washome a short time ago. It is the first time we have seen him in two years. He is working for McKesson Drugs in Chicago. 
ARNOLD KLEIN, JR., will be mar­ried this spring. ROD SULLIVAN and VIC THEISSEN are also mth the Northern States Power Company. Rod in North Dakota and Vic in Min­neapolis. JOE SCHROEDER and LOUIE REGAN are still going around together as they did at Notre Dame. 
The 'J^otre 1>ame cAlumnus 
Our next meeting will be at the banquet on Universal Notre Dame Night. With best wishes, I am, 
JOHN D. YELLANT). 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE CITIES —Joseph Carey. '32. 20 Roosevelt Ave., En­dicott. N. Y., President: Rccis McNamara, 
•33. 13 Crandall St.. BinEhamton. N. Y.. Sccretao'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN. OHIO— 
C. J. Schmidt, '11. 260 Melmore St, Presi­dent: Fred J. WaEncr, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO—Fred A. Sprenger, *30, 3X29 Kimball Ave., President: Joseph L. Wctli. •31. 717 Starr Ave., Sec­retary. 
UTICA 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTICA. NEW YORK—Dr. John F. Kcllcy. •22. Peoples' Gas and Electric Bids., President: Joseph 
W. Fullem. '31, 1621 Neilson St., Secretary. 
On reception of your letter some few weeks ago concerning Universal Notre Dame Night, DR. JOHN KEL­LEY immediately appointed me a Committee of One on arrangements. After writing some twenty-five Notre Dame men living about these parts, we have received enthusiastic replies from fifteen or twenty. I am glad to report (our club reports so very, very seldom I hope you can stand the sudden shock) that on April 29 at 7:30 P.M., we are going to gather together to eat, drink, and be merry. Arrangements have also been made with our local broadcasting station WIBX for a short Notre Dame pro­gram, the exact details of which have not as yet been completed. 
Before we yell, "Play ball," elec­tion of officers is scheduled to take place. The present staff of leaders believe that after two years of con­stant activity the future of the club depends upon the immediate injec­tion of new blood. 
The Utica Club wishes at this time to offer condolences to the University in the loss of our beloved mutual friend Rev. Father Cavanaugh, and also to the Sullivan family on the untimely death of. their son, Joseph. 
With best wishes from all the Cen­ti-al New York boys, we remain, 
A. CHARLES HITZELBERGER. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTAH—Raymond 
R. Brady, 'ii. 206 Keams Bide.. Salt Lake City. President: Cyril Harbecke, '19. 64 F. St.. S.-ilt Lake City. Secretary. 
WATERBURY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY— John Robinson, '28, 32 Farminston Ave., President: James M. Monaehan, '27. 44 Ayer St., Secretary. 
A gi-oup of Connecticut alumni met in Waterbury on February 21 to entertain ELMER LAYDEN and ART HALEY prior to their appearance at the annual Catholic Action banquet sponsored by the Waterbury Knights of Columbus of which JOHN ROB­INSON is grand knight. 
April, 1935 
Heading the committee which ar­ranged the meeting with Layden and Haley was WALTER STAPLETON, of Waterbury. Others in the group were: 
Attorney JOHN CULLINAN, ROG­ER MURPHY and Attomev JAMES MURPHY, Bridgeport; GEORGE SHUSTER, Glenbrook; Attomev JAMES CURRY, Attomev THOMAS CURRY, GEORGE SHAY, JOHN SMITH, Hartford; CYRIL GAFF­NEY, Nev.- Britain; JOHN CONT­WAY and CHARLES DUCEY, New Haven; THOMAS FERGUSON, Thompsom-ille; GEORGE G.A.FFENY, HAROLD HANLON, JAMES MON­AGHAN, FRANK MURNAME, JO­SEPH ROBINSON, WILLIAM SUL­LIVAN, JOHN HENRY, and TED ROURKE, Waterburj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE WABASH VALLEY—Noble Kizer. '25, Purdne Un!­vcrsity. Lafayette. Ind., President: Peter VoKt. Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN WASH­INGTON — Joseph Sinnott, 'OS. 1931 E. Lynn St., Seattle, President: E. Morris Starrett, '21, 801 Washinirton St.. Port Townsend. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WHEEUNG, W. VA,—Thomas F. Howley. '11. Citizens-Peo­ples Trust Co., Wheclinn, President: GeorRe Sargus, '28, 2111 Belmont. Bellaire. Ohio. Secretao'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGSTOWN— John Moran. '29. 1345 Quinn. President: Charles Cushwa. '31. 463 Madera Ave., Secretary. 
WOMEN'S CLUB 
THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME Sister M. Frederick. C.S.C, "24, S t Maiy'i College. Notre Dame. President: Miss Rose SUffaniak, '26. 161 Walnut St., Goldwater. Michigan. Secretary. 
IN SEARCH OF MOZART, By Henry Gheon; translated by Alex­ander Dru. New York: Sheed and Ward. 3GC pp. .?4. 
In this thoroughly charming book, the author, a French convert, a doc­tor by profession, and well-known as litterateur, biographer, an d play­wright, enters upon a new field— music—and finds himself delightfully at home. Yet apart from his evident intimacy with the most spiritual of the arts, it is not difficult to under­stand the appeal of Mozart to the biographer of the Cure of Ars and the Little Flower. Each of the three was favored with an exti-aordinary gift; each had an innate passion for perfection; each kept always the heart of a child. 
"Quality in simplicity—that is Mo­zart and the whole of classic art," concludes Monsieur Gheon, after a revealing study of the gay, loving, generous spirit whose genius he con­siders supreme. He finds in the Salzburg master a kinship, with Soph­ocles, Vergil, Fra Angelico, Moliere, Shakespeare. By means of numerous excerpts from both his musical works and his correspondence, he shows us the man and artist w^ho "was not to 

April, 1935 The 'Hotre 1)0)711 cAlumnus 
be imprisoned—as were his success­ors and as we are—by pride, dis­illusionment, affectation, complexity, mannerisms. He turned away from self to the reality of the outside world, to the possibility of other worlds, to God." 
While the book holds a special in­terest for music-lovers, it cannot but appeal to anyone who relishes a very human biography, in this case that of a lovable genius, who, caressed by queens in his childhood, was later "dissected alive" by contemporary persons and circumstances, yet kept his art pure and high to the end— a pauper's gi-ave at thirty-six, and after that, a fame that makes the words Mozart and music synonymous 
Incidentally, if Le style est I'lioyn­me, the limpid loveliness, the disarm­ing sincerity, and the occasional nai­vete of the book, stamp Gheon as a kindred spirit of the Mozart he all but worships. 
Sister M. Ancilla, O.S.U., '22. 

WESTERN WASHINGTON 
Here's a news item for the Alum­nus:— 
On Tuesday, March 5, the annual AU-CoUege Night was held at the University of Washington Armory on the University campus, Seattle. There was approximately 250 in attendance representing possibly 25 different Universities. The "U" pep band was present with popular band music and college songs. There were selections from soloists, trios, quartets, glee clubs and some fancy dancing. Men in the "limelight" in Seattle were individually escorted to the stage by two policemen and cross examined in Mock Court. This was all very hu­morous. These men included the Mayor of Seattle, the Sheriff of King County, the President of the Seattle Chamber of Commerce, JIMMIE PHELAN, football coach of the 'Huskies' and many others. The eve­ning terminated with a "help yourself luncheon." 
Members of the Notre Dame Club met at the Commons on the campus at 6 P.M. and had dinner before at­tending the annual gathering at 8 o'clock. 
Here's another:— 

The Campus Number of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS was received and was very interesting. Particularly so on acocunt of the many changes. I took my copy to Mr. George Var­nell, sports editor of the Seattle Times prominent football and basket­ball referee and Univ. of Chicago graduate and star athlete. He looked the edition over with interest. He picked out several men in the picture of the first Notre Dame football team that he knew and had met in the business world. 
AS to Rockne's picture in track suit, he said he appeared in track events against Rockne. In later years Var­nell was chosen to referee a Notre Dame-Southern California game in Chicago. He said it was then that he was amazed at Rockne's memory. Vamell asked 'Rock' if he knew who he was and 'Rock' came through with some surprising detailed incidents re­lating to track meets held at Notre Dame and Chicago in which Vamell and Rock participated, leaving no doubt as to knowing Vamell. Mr. Vamell paid wonderful tribute to the morale at Notre Dame and said here­in lies the best background for all athletic sports and the athlete him­
self. 
JOSEPH D. SINNOTT. 

I I j I Graduate Social Work 
Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C, Head of the Department of Sociology, and Professor Raymond A. Hoyer, Director of the Department of Boy Guidance in the Graduate School, have announced the formation of The Graduate Curriculum in Social Work, to be connected nominally with the Department of Sociologj-. 
The Curriculum will bring together the courses of the Boy Guidance De­partment and the Program in Proba­tion Work under two generic divi­sions, group work and social case work. Group work, under Professor Hoyer, will continue to emphasize boy guidance; social case work, under Professor Frank T. Flynn, Jr., will emphasize preparation for the field of probation through training in broad fundamental courses. 
The Department of Boy Guidance was established in 1924, with the co­opei-ation and financial support of the Boy Life Bureau of the Knights of Columbus, who had felt the need of securing trained men for directing the leisure-time acti\'ities of boys and young men. More than a hundred graduates of the department are in executive positions in community rec­reation, scouting, boys' clubs, indus­trial welfare work, and in relief agen­cies. The recent growth of the Cath­olic Youth Organization movement has emphasized the need of trained leadership in group work with youth. 
Professor Hoyer completed recent­ly an exhaustive survey of trends in the field, and the present move to­ward homogeneity in the social work courses is one result of this survey. 
The Program in Probation Work was organized in 1929 by Father MuiTay and has been strengthened gradually. The present training equips the student for work with depart­ments of public welfare, child wel­fare agencies. Catholic Charities, re­lief organizations, and in fact any type of social work which demands comprehensive training. There is al­so particular stress on training for work involving juvenile and adult delinquency, especially in the courses dealing with probation, parole, and prison administration. 
Ye Days of Old— 

(/ tvas at Notre Dame in the old days and knew all these men. Today on returning to the campus I found no one that I recognized. These few lines are my sentiments.—H. D.) 
O give us back the da^vns of old That shone upon our youth, When eyes were clear and hearts 
were bold And loyalty and truth Guided our footsteps every day .'Vnd softened the sharp, stony way. 
When Father Thomas Walsh was here To w^arm us ^vith his smile, When Zahm's and Corby's names 
were dear. And life held less of guile; Ah, those were hours that were blest When youth gave only of its best. 
Bring back the days of Morrissey, 
Of Regan and of French, 
How full of hope they used to be! 
Contentment seemed to drench 
Our spirits with its overflow— 
And we were innocent of woe. 
Bring back the days when Schier 
taught. And Alex Kirsch held sway, When Father Stoffel's genius wrought Such marvels day by day; The laughing days when Father Fitte Charmed all aroimd him with his wit. 
Bring back the golden days we knew When Cavanaugh was in command. The days that prodigally threw Their sunshine over all the land; When Father Crumley's genial look Taught more of peace than any book. 
Ah, bring us back those days again That time has hurried by. Those hoiirs that were free from pain When youthful hearts beat high. Roll back once more those joyful 
years That were unclouded by our tears. 
New Kind of Questionaire 

A few days after you receive this magazine, there will be mailed to you a new kind of questionnaire for graduates. During the past seven years, thirteen editions of this ques­tionnaire have been issued to the graduates of the 44 leading colleges and universities. 
We are anxious for Notre Dame Graduates to make a good showing on the return card which will be mailed to The Graduate Group, our national advertising representatives in New York. 
Every Notre Dame alumnus who fills out and mails back this card will be rendering a distinctive service of value to the Notre Dame ALUMNUS. 
• THE ALUMNI ^ 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Nora Louise Kennedy and THOMAS A. FAERELL, '26, were married March 2, in Montclair, New Jersey. 
Miss Helen Lang and ROBERT G. HUETZ, OS. '28, were married Feb­ruary 9, at Our Lady Help of Chris­tians Church, East Orange, New Jer­sey. 
Miss Catharine Jones and WIL­LIAM H. MILLER, '30, were married March 2, at St. Peter's Catholic Church, Jackson, Miss. JOHN RO­CAP, '30, was the best man. The bride is the sister of C. D. JONES, '32. 
Miss Jeanette Louise Hillebrand and FRANK L. JIURRAY, '32, were married March 5, at St. Phillip's Church, Battle Creek, Michigan. 
Miss Mary Durm and JOHN F. BURNS, '32, were married February 23, at St. Maiy's Church, Niles, Mich­igan. 
Miss Margaret Liska and PAUL LESKO, '34, were married March 2, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Velma E. Smith and ELJIER 
M. CR-ANE, '34, were man-ied last December 8, in South Bend, Indiana. 
Miss Roberta L. Davis and ROB­ERT A. MASSEY. '31, were man-ied Febniaiy 26, at St. Thomas Church, Fail-field, Connecticut. 
Miss Susan Irene Knight and RUS­SELL H. ARNDT, '25, were married Alarch 30, in Indianapolis, Indiana. 
Announcements have been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Rebecca Beverlev Herbert and GEORGE Q. BRUECKNER, os. •26. 
Miss Winifred G. Breen and JAMES GR.\Y, '28. 
Miss Dorothv Lewis and WALTER 
V. HART, Jr., '29. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. HERBERT P. VALK­ER, '23, announce the arrival of Vir­ginia Ellen, on February 15, Iowa City, Iowa. Herb reports that "she is the fifth child and second girl in the family." 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD T. O'­NEILL, '26, announce the arrival of a son, William L., on Januai-y 7, in Detroit, Michigan. 
Mr. and Mrs. CARL P. WOLFRAM, 
COMMENCEMENT 
and 
ALUMNI REUNION 
June 1 and 2 
CLASS REUNIONS 
50 year ---- 1885 
25 year --- 1910 
5 year -- 1930 
'29, are the parents of a daughter, KaiTl Belle, Febi-uai-j' 22, in Cleve­land, Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH E. BUSH­ER, '33, announce the arrival of a son, Joseph, March 13, in South Bend, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. P. KENNEDY, e-K. '29, announce the birth of a son, James Philip, Jr., on March 20, in Chicago. 
DEATHS 
REV. IGNATIUS E. McNAMEE, '09, one of the most able and most prominent students of his day and in the later years one of the most dis­tinguished priests in the Pacific Northwest, died in Portland, Oregon on March 12. President of his Senior Class, editor of the Dome, winner of the Breen Medal, winner of the state oi-atorical contest, skilled debater, Father McNamee was outstanding in an outstanding class. His classmates, according to the 1909 Dome, voted him the most scholarly member of his class as well as the man who had done the most for Notre Dame. 
Father McNamee prepared in Rome for the priesthood and was ordained there in 1913. In the Portland arch­diocese he held many important posts, among them the pastorate, for 14 years, of St. Francis Church, Port­land. -Archbishop Howard ofiiciated at the solemn funeral services in that church on March 14. His mother and a sister survive. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sym­pathy to: LEO D. KEATING, '30, upon the death of his mother; C. B. PITES, '22, upon the death of his mother and father; LEROY J. KEACH, '08, upon the death of his wife; CHARLES W. DONAHUE, *25, upon the death of his mother; JAMES McGILL, '33, upon the death of his-mother; GERARD HODGES, 32, upon the death of his father; GER­ALD, '29, JEROME, '33, and TOM ROACH, '34, upon the death bf their mother; JOSEPH DRENANE, '30, upon the death of his mother; DAVE, '25, and ED MURPHY, '31, upon the death of their father. 
PERSONALS 
Before 1880 
BEFORE 1880 —Hon Thomas F. GallaEher. 
Fitchburs, Mass. 
Brother Raymond, C.S.C, a repre­sentative of The Ave Maria, writes of a very pleasant visit in San Fran­cisco ^vith Mrs. M. Staley McKannay, 567 Twentieth Avenue, a grand­daughter of the late JOHN W. STA­LEY, a student at Notre Dame in the 70's. 
1885 50-YEAR REUNION June 1 and 2 
1880-85 
1880.85—Prof. Robert M. Anderson. Cirdeville. Ohio. 
I am at almost a loss as to address­ing you in a correct maimer. My writing this letter is on account of receiving a nice letter from my closest college chum, and compan­ion in my days spent at the college. 
S.A.M P. TERRY, of -A.lanieda, Cal. The fifth of this month, he wrote me, one of several letters, that I have re­ceived, in the last year. He requested of me to write and ask for Campus Number NOTRE D.\ME ALUM.VUS — for Feb. 1935. I am complying with that request. 
He writes me that he has taken up the task of trjing to locate (near as he can) all the old students. Where they are living (and why) and what they have accomplished since the days of long ago. -A.nd in this same letter he tells me that it appears that only about one third of them are now alive. I am extremely sorry to hear this, but I realize only too well that half a century has made wonderful changes, and we are but a part of the passing throng. Am not any too well at this time, but with it all Life has been wonderfully good to me, and the (76) years have passed as a pleasant dream. With all the strength of my being, I sincerely hope the suc­cess of the past, may ever be with my old college—^NOTRE DAME. 
Yours— THOMAS HALE. 

[Mr. Hale is vice president of the American National Bank of Pryor, Oklahoma.] 
1SS6—Michael O. Burni, 338 S. Second St., Hamilton. Ohio. 
18SS—John L. Heineman, Conneraville. Ind. 
1889 
1S89—p. E. Burlie, 301 Camp St.. New Or­leans, Louisiana 
From GENE MELADY in Omaha came the very green and ever wel­come St. Patrick's Day greeting. It was entitled " 'Tis Grand to See the Green." It said: 
"Sure, afther all the winter. 
-\n* afther all the snow. 
'Tis fine to see the sunshine. 
"Tis fine to feel its slow: 
'Tis fine to see the huds brcal; 
On bouffhs that bare have been— 
But best of all to Irish eyes 
'Tis .^mnil to see the ;rreen I" • 

Since receiving your postal asking for some items for the April number I have been traveling by auto from New^ Orleans to Miami where I am attending the National Insurance Agents mid-winter convention. My daughter, Margaret Gibbon Burke, Miss Stella Kenney and Grady Har­rell of my office, are members of our party. 
I have been trying to locate some 
N. D. men during our travels, but have met onlv one, at Orlando—BER­NARD HEFFERMAN, '18, of Indi­ana. He is known to most of the N. 
D. men of that period, and a close friend of FATHER JOHN C.AVAN­AUGH, and FATHER BURNS. 
I understand from Father F. Sulli­van, S.J., that there are some Notre Dame men visiting in Florida, and I may meet some of them before sailing for Nassau tomorrow (Thursday), re­turning to Miami on Monday, when we will direct our car to New Or­leans, expecting to reach there Wed­nesday or Thursday. 
I made a grievous error last month when I referred to BROTHER GIL­BERT, C.S.C, as the president of the Holy Cross College in New Orleans. I had a note from BROTHER GER­ARD, C.S.C, calling my attention to the fact. I have not his letter at hand, but I think I have him right now as Brother Gerard, president of Holy Cross College. He also calls my atten­tion to the fact that the dramatics at Holy Cross continue to occupy the front page in College activities. But BROTHER LEONARD, C.S.C, put on Journey's End in a more finished manner than the original English company. 
We have passed through the prin­cipal cities of eastern Florida, includ­ing Jacksonville, St. Augustine, where we drank of the fountain of youth as did Ponce de Leon a few centuries ago. There is a charm about that old 
PATRICK E . BURKE . A solo observmice. 

Cathedral city that one would like to linger there for many days. I had the pleasure of meeting Bishop Barry who succeeded Archbishop Curley, D.D., of Baltimore. 
I sent you a newspaper of March 5, Carnival Day, containing an accoimt of the lunch given in memory of Rockne's birthday, March 4. 
I had made a public announcement through the Press and depended largely on that to get a representa­tive gathering of Rockne's friends. As it turned out, however, I was the only person to show up. The papers made much of this incident. 
P. E. BURKE. 

1890-93—Louis P. Chute. 7 University Ave., Minneapolis, Minnesota 
1894—Hugh A. O'DonncU, 1 W. 67th St. New Yorit City. 
1895—Eustace CuJlinan. Sr.. 860 Phelan Bid?., San Francisco, Calif. 
1896—William P. Burns, 327 Wiliard Ave., Michican City, Indiana 
1897—Rev. John A. MacNamara. St. Joseph's Sanitarium, Sit. Clemens. Michisan. 
1898 
1898—William C. Kccler, 9th and Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 
WILLIAM F. MONTAVON is the author of "The Church in Mexico Protests," a factual pamphlet pub­lished by the National Catholic Wel­fare Conference which has been wide­ly circulated and widely commended as one of the most effective protests against the religious persecution of the Mexican Government. The pam­phlet sets forth in very brief form the history of Mexico from 1906 to the present. 
1899—Dr. Joseph F. Duane, 418 Jefferson Bide., Peoria, Illinois. 
1900 
1900—John Vr. Eggeman. Old First Bank BUdff., Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
Judge JOHN W. EGGEMAN de­livered the address of welcome on March at the reception for Rev. D. Lawrence Monahan, new rector of St. Patrick's Church in Fort Wayne. Among the other Fort Wayne resi­dents w^ho issisted in the ceremony were DONNELLY P. McDONALD and FRANK GILMARTIN. Father Monahan succeeded the late Rt. Rev. Msgr. Joseph F. Delaney whose re­cent death in Fort Wayne was a cause of deep sorrow to the many Notre Dame men who knew him well. 
1901—Joseph J. Sullivan. 1300. 139 N. Qark St,. Chicago. HI. 
1902 
1902—C. C. Mitchell. 110 S. Dearborn St.. Box 
S, Chicaero, Itlinais. 
The Class of 1902 has been very remiss in making reports or in any other way assisting the editor of the ALUMNUS. 
We have seldom appeared in your columns except on felicitous occasions but this time we come with bowed heads and sad hearts to join all other Notre Dame classes in lamenting the passing of dear old Brother Leopold. 
To all Notre Dame men of the last half century or more a beloved char­acter, a center of many fine recollec­tions, an institution dear to us, has passed out of Notre Dame. 
Brother Leopold, C.S.C. by the very reason of his oddities, silently and patiently contributed to the real edu­cation of young men throughout his connection with the University. Without being conscious of it, class after class, through more than five decades, learned from him the virtue of respect for others, patience, fidel­ity to small things, and the dignity of doing little things well. 
Let us assure you that Brother Leopold still has the love and the prayers of the Class of 1902. 
C. C. MITCHELL. 

1903—^Francis P. Burke. 901 Trust Company BIdff., Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
1904 
1904—^Robert Proctor, Moneer Bids-, Elkhart. Indiana. 
GALLITZIN A. FARABAUGH, to­gether %vith FATHER JOHN Mc-GINN, '06, is serving on a board of arbitration which is working out a final settlement of the strike which tied up the South Bend plant of the Oliver Farm Equipment for several weeks. Father McGinn, chairman of the arbitration board, was one of those most instrumental in bringing the strike to a close. 
1905—Daniel J. O'Connor. 10 S. LaSalle St, Cbicaffo. minoiB. 
190B—Tbomsa A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen Bid?., Spolcase, Washincton. 
1907 
Stressing the difference bet\veen modem Christian civilization and the ancient pagan vrorld into which Chiist was bom, FATHER WH^LIAM A. BOLGER recently addressed mem­bers of the St. Joseph County Min­isterial Association. He warned liis audience against pagan tendencies in the modem world as evidenced by such practices as birth control and "mercy murders." 
1908—Frank X. Cnll. Bulldcy Bide.. Qcveland. Ohio. 
1909 
1909—^E. P. Qeary, Kotre Dame, Indiana. 
FATHER RICHARD COLLEN­TINE, head of Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame, is preaching a series of Lenten sermons to the students. He takes the pulpit twice each Wed­nesday evening in Sacred Heart Church, since the present student body is of such size that two sen'ices are necessarj-. 
1910 25-YEAR REUNION June 1 and 2 

1910 
1910—Eev. M. L. Moriirty. 1900 Eaclid Ave.. Geveland, Ohio. 
The Society of Catholic Medical lEssionaries, the headquarters of which are at Brookland, D. C, has just begun to issue a new magazine, the Medical Missionar\-. Its editor is the REV. MCH.4.EL A. M.A.THIS, C.S.C, '10. 
1911 
1911—Fred I.. Steers. 1635 First National Bk. Bids., Chica^, Illinois. 
FATHER PATRICK C-4RR0LL, editor of The Ave Maria, poet, essay­ist and novelist, on March 7 spoke to the students of Riley High School in South Bend on "Irish Polk and Fairy Lore." The lecture was arranged by Miss Sarah O'Neill, a teacher in the school and a sister of WILLI.A.M P. O'NEILL, '06. Father Carroll on March 17 delivered a St. Patrick's Day address in Cincinnati. 
1912 
1912—B. J. Kaiser. 324 Fourth St. PittsburBh. Pennsylvania. 
GEORGE PHILBROOK, football star and track star in his Notre Dame days, is the new track coach at the University of Portland, Oregon, for­merly known as Columbia University. Amidst familiar C. S. C. surroundings George will no doubt be able to in­still into his track students some of the \vizardy that made him a member of the 1912 Olympic team. . 
1913—James K. Devitt 921 EnEinecre Bids., Cleveland, Ohio. 
1914 
1914—Frank H. Hayes. 406 Bank of America Bids., Anaheim, Calif. 
W-ALTER CLEMENTS, prominent South Bend attorney, is district attor­ney for the HOLC and ^vith the dis­trict HOLC manager recently made a tour of the principal counties in the district which includes a large part of northwestern Indiana. 
D.A.NSHOUVLIN was the maestro of entertainment when the fencing team was in Springfield, Ohio, on February 14 and accompanied the boys to the contest. TOM McMA-HON, '29, of Cincinnati, was also among those who cheered the Notre Dame victoiy. Incidentally, there were seven N. D. fencing victories during the season just past—and no defeats. Professor PEDRO DE LAN­DERO, '11, is the fencing coach. 
1915—James E. Sanford. 1033 S. Linden Ave.. Highland Park. Illinois. 
1916—Timothy P. Galvin. 708 First Trust Bids., Hammond. Indiana. 
1917 
1917—Edward J. McOsker. 104 S. Union St. Elsin, Illinois. 
BERNIE VOLL, prominent busi­ness leader, was general chairman of the recent So.uth Bend Chamber of Commerce "Restore South Bend" campaign which added hundreds of new members to the Chamber's rolls. 
F.A.THER SPEER STRAHAN, pro­fessor at the Catholic University, is gi^^ng a series of lectures to class in creative ^vriting sponsored by the In­ternational Fedei-ation of Catholic Alumnae in Washington, D. C. Ruth Craven of the Bengalese staff ar­i-anged the lectures. 
1918—John A. Lemmer. 1110-Sth Ave., S., Es­canaba, Michisan. 1919—Qarence Bader, 650 Pierce St , Gary, Indiana. 
1920—1*0 B. Ward, 1912 Black Bids.. Los Anseles. California. 
1921-Alden J. Cusick. 1 Park Ave., New York City. 
1922 
1922—Gerald Ashe. BuSak) Athletic Qub. Buf­falo. N. Y. 
FR.4NK MILES is putting the old baseball skill to good use by serving as chairman of the Catholic Youth Organization softball league in South Bend. Professor RAY HOYER, '24, head of the Boy Guidance Depart­ment at the University, is chairman of the local C.Y.O. scouting com­mittee. 
BILL CASTELLINI, public rela­tions expert of Cincinnati, has joined the organization of Edward L. Ber­nays. New York, as liaison officer with the Philco Radio and Television Corporation. His headquarters are in Philadelphia. 
For the past ten years, Bill J.as been identified with many of Cincin­nati's most important civic, business and philanthropic enterprises, such as The American Red Cross, The Community Chest, The Cincinnati Chamber of Commerce and The Hamilton County Rspublican Party. His publicity activities have covered a wide and important field. 
• 1923 
1923—Paul Castner, WTiite Motor Company, Cleveland, Ohio. 
WILLI.\M J. FUREY was recently heard in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, in several fine baritone solos on the occasion of the recital of George Carlos Hager, C.S.C, class of '35., student in the Department of Music. Bill, who is well known in the St. Joseph Valley for his musical ac­tivities, sang works from Elijah, Men­delssohn, and a beautiful "0 Sanctis­sima" by Fritz Kreisler. 
Hundreds of residents of East Chi­cago, Indiana, on March 2 in St. Marv's Hall held a "homecoming banquet" for FR.A.NK THOMAS, coach of the champion Alabama team. Frank, a graduate of Washington High School in East Chicago, talked and showed pictures of the Rose Bowl game at Los -A.ngeles on New Year's Day. 
FATHER JOSEPH MUCKEN­THALER opened a series of Lenten sermons at Holy Cross Church in South Bend with a discussion of "The Family Group." 
H.A.RRY FL-A.NNERY, late of Sta­tion WIND in Gaiy, Indiana, a Co­lumbia station, is now with KMOX, St. Louis, the key station of the Co­lumbia chain. 
Says the "house organ" of KMOX about Flan (with picture 'n every­thing) : 
"The -American Packing Co., St. Louis, sponsoring a daily morning news broadcast, featuring Harry W. Flannery. 
"Flannery comes to KMOX with a brilliant background as newspaper editor, syndicate writer of New York City and Chicago. He is a graduate of Notre Dame University and played a great part in the success of the col­lege papers during his years at South Bend. Besides his newspaper work, he was secertary to J. P. McEvoy, fa­mous author of many stage successes, including several comedy skits in the "Ziegfeld Follies" and George White's "Scandals." 
"Harry W. Flannery brings to the air a fine, resonant voice, clear dic­tion and a most pleasing style in his news broadcasts, "Views on News," heard daily except Sundav at 8:00 
A. M." 
Says Flan in a recent letter: "I ran across MERLIN ROLWING here in the street one day; I meet him more places than any other Notre Dame man. Merlin is selling insurance and breaking records, %vinning prizes with much persistency. Have toast and coffee many mornings with ELMER COLLINS whose office happens to be in the same building as our studio and who is selling heat regulator equipment and burning them up with his sales." 
EDDIE GOULD, in the- efficient Gould way, was largely responsible for organizing the '23ers at the THOMAS dinner in Chicago. But, modestly slipping out of the limelight, the same Mr. Gould sent the follow­ing notice to the Alumni Office: 
An unofficial reunion of the class of 1923 in the Chicago area was held at the Annual Dinner of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago on February 28th at the Urban Room of the Con­gress Hotel. 
FRANK THOMAS, '23, coach of the Rose Bowl champions, was the guest of honor. A long table was set for the following classmates: JOE TROMANN, BRUCE HOLMBERG, THOMAS COOKE, FRANK GAL­VIN. LOU MOORE, MAURICE DACY, JAMES MARTIN, EUGENE HINES, MELVIN ROHRBACH, ED GOULD, FRANK X. EGAN, JOE DONALDSON, BILL VOSS, JOE HENNEBERRY, DAN CULHANE, GEORGE PATTERSON, JOHN MONTAGUE and a special represen­tative from the campus, JOE CASA­SANTA. Among those who -ivrote in and sent their regrets were PAUL CASTNER, MIKE SEYFRIT, ED­WARD D. KELLY and Rev. JOHN 
J. CAVAN.-VUGH, C.S.C. 
At the conclusion of Thomas' talk, the class walked up to the speaker's table, individually congratulated him and presented him with an electric razor. Joe Casasanta then lead the orchestra (Josef Cheraiavsky's) in two of his own compositions. The Hike Song and When Irish Backs Go Marching By. It is not likely that the Notre Dame Club of Chica­go will soon forget that the Class of 1923 is a substantial source of its strength. 
I have had occasion to visit JOHN MONTAGUE in Chicago and also had the pleasure of having him at my home in Cleveland recently. John is in charge of a large portion of Automotive Advertising for the Chi­cago Tribune aiid is doing a very fine job. 
As Harvey Woodi-uiT says in "The Wake," I would like to have a little help and wish some of the class of '23 would send me some news about themselves. 
PAUL CASTNER. 

The same JOHN MONTAGUE, ad­vertising representative of the World's self-confessed Greatest Newspaper, spoke one afternoon in March to the advertising class of Herr Professor TOM BERRY, '25, who besides hand­ling academic publicity for the Uni­versity, is teaching some classes in the Department of Journalism. 
May 30 and 31 
For a Visit on the 
Campus 
PLUS 
June 1 and 2 for the COMMENCEMENT and 
ALUMNI REUNION 

A GREAT WEEK-END 
1924 
1924—James F. Hayes. Wm. J. Pcilrick .1 Co.. Empire State Bide, New York City. 
FATHER LEO FLOOD preached a mission in Jlarch at the new parish of Christ the King on the Niles road in Roseland of which FATHER WEN­DELL CORCORAN, '07, is the popu­lar pastor. 
Professor RAY HOYER discussed "Group Psychology" at a recent Guardians Training Course session of the Camp Fire Gii-Is in South Bend. 
Some day I will keep my promise to be a faithful coriespondent for the Alumni Magazine. Perhaps now that I am settled in a new business I will have mare time—although the way we are going along now (and I hope it keeps up) I won't. 
TOM HODGSON who disappeared from %ie\v in 1924 and has gone along quietly gathering unto himself a fine position, a very chai-ming wife and a family of one great boy, called on me about ten days ago. He was in town for the Mid-Winter conference of the Trust Division of the Ameri­can Bankers Association. Tom is with the Federal Resen-e Bank of Minneapolis in case any of the class of '24 want to reach him. While here he stayed at the Waldorf-As­toria and as soon as he told me that I knew he was a banker. He and Mrs. Hodgson did all the high spots of town in a brief visit, but despite my importunities I couldn't get him to call back to visit the Empire State Tower. I was in the middle of mov­ing from one office to another but we had a nice visit nevertheless. Tom looks the same—ten years of banking hasn't changed him, and I think that is news these days. 
CHARLIE DeBARRY, also of the great class, was in town recently when I was up in New England try­ing out the skis and snow-shoes. Charlie is doing a gi-eat job in Wash­ington, but pines for New York and I expect to see him back in town soon. FR.A.NK DUFFICY is also in Washington, and, so I am informed, heading for the altar. 
We had a luncheon for FATHER 
NIEUWLAND at the Empire State 
Club recently, and about 24 Notre 
Dame men turned out on short notice. 
Very interesting, and no doubt the 
Club has sent you the news. 
JIM HAYES. 

1925 1925—John W. Scallan. Pullman Co.. 79 E. Adams St., ChicaEO. HI­
CLIFF POTTS, drum major ex­traordinary in the Four Horseman days, on March 15 was one of a group of South Bend attorneys and Master Masons who directed initia­tion of a class of candidates, all of them lawyers, into South Bend lodge. No. 294, F. and A.M. Despite the hazards of living next to the DOOL­EY family. Cliff carries on his law-practice in the JMS building and teaches his young son, Philip, how to box and handle a baton. 
J.-VCK SHEEHAN is sales manager of Burton Motors, Studebaker dis­tributors in New York City, accord­ing to an ad brought back alive from a New York paper by Athleticor ART HALEY, '26. 
NOBE KIZER and his brother MARSHALL KIZER, '30, took a prominent part in recent Boy Scout banquet in Plymouth, Indiana. 
Most '2oers and other Notre Dame men know by now that -4DAM WALSH is the new football coach at Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine. Aiter his Seven Mule days Adam went to Santa Clara w-here he spent five years as head football coach, leaving there to spend five years at Yale as head line coach. The past season he spent at Harvard as head line coach. 
1926 1926—Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, 96 N. Walnut St. East OranBe. N. J. 
Professor NORB ENGELS, togeth­er OTth Professor LOUIS HASLEY, '30, and Professor FR-ANK O'MAL­LEY, '32, were the leading lights of the March progress of the Poetry Club of South Bend. Louie spoke on the life and poetry of Vachel Lind­say, and Norb and Frank both read original poems w-hich were heartily commended. Assisting in the Alumni Office program Norb visited high schools in Green Bay, and Milwaukee on March 26 and 27. 
IRVING HURWICH, president of the South Bend - Mishawaka B'na: B'rith lodge and Mishdwaka city at­tomey, was master of ceremonies at 
the fourth annual A.Z.A. cabaret 
dance in South Bend on March 24. 
HOGAN MORRISSEY, who has just given up the presidency of the Cincinnati club after a tenn of gen­erous and highly efficient sei-vice, is busy with an-angements for Port Scott Camp, near Cincinnati, of which he is camp director. The camp will opei-ate for girls between June 10 and July 21 and for boys betiveen July 22 and September 1. There "vnXX be three terms of two weeks each for both girls and boys. The age limits are seven and seventeen. The camp is under Catholic auspices with Monsignor R. Marcellus Wagner as genei-al director and spiritual ad­\-iser. Hogan (address: 35 East Sev­enth Street, Cincinnati) will welcome inquiries. 
WALT HOUGHTON, who is \vith the Singer Sewinc: Slachine Com­pany in Newark, New Jersey, stopped to look over the campus on Sunday, March 24 en route to Chicago on a business trip. .TACK GALLAGHER, who was returning to Cleveland from Chicago, and the Associate Editor got together briefly for a miniature class re-union. We were able at the same time to pav our respects to the late FATHER CAVANAUGH who was lying in state nearby. Jack is with the legal department of the Morris Plan Bank in Cleveland. In Chicago he had seen HAROLD "GIGGS" GALLAGHER who is the busy pater of two lively young offspring and DICK DONNELLY who spent his freshman year as a member of our class. 
PA last the good Doctor crashes through and with a ten-pound baby book. Hear ye this—and rejoice: 
Information has been relayed to me that you are dealing disdainfully with ray name in the ALUJIXUS. I say "re­layed" because I have not seen an ALUMNUS of my own in months. Your addressograph files have an an­tiquated address of mine which I now ask you to discard. In your own rec­ords you have my correct identifica­tion— the above — GERALD WEL­DON HAYES, M.D., 9G N . Walnut Street, East Orange, N. J. For the same reason, I suppose, you have sent me no reminder on dues. I, therefore, enclose a check to coves my obliga­tion for the current year. 
Fortunately I have a few choice tid-bits for you at this time. The first is Farrell's wedding. The mil­lennium has come! It is the truth that THOMAS ALOYSIUS FAR­RELL takes a wife—a sweet little Gael—one Nora Kennedy of Upper Montclair, New Jersey, Tom, of course, has forsaken the bachelor's club to live at 65 FuUerton Ave,, Montclair, N, J, This leaves DAN O'NEILL (Butte, Montana) to ren­der Notre Dame flavor to the estab­
The ^o tre 'Dame cAlumnus 
lishment in East Orange, since JACK 
S.A.UNDERS spends most of his time 
laundrying in Boston, , , , Other Jer­
sey nuptials recently involved BOB 
HtlETZ in East Orange and BOB 
M.4SSEY in Bridgeport, Conn. I 
have no doubt the details of all these 
will appear elsewhere in this issue. 
Many of the boys have the past 

few weeks been arranging little get­
togethers in honor of JAKE PUR­
CELL who is leaving next month for 
London, England, out of which city 
he will work as foreign auditor for 
IngersoU-Rand. Jake is taking his 
family to Europe and ^vill live there 
indefinitely. Yesterday at ED 
BURKE'S there were Jake, BOZO 
(RICHARD) PURCELL, who is an 

insurance broker in Jersey City, JOE 
NULTY, a probation oificer in our 
Union County; LARRY KEMPER, 
'24, advertising business, Newark; 
ED DUGGAN, one of Newark's very 
successful counsellors ; PETE 
QUINN, mortician of Bloomfield; and 
yours truly—lowly among the above 
wolves, . ." , EDDIE BURKE, inci­
dentally, still works for the Plain­
field Lumber and Supply Co, and 
lives a happily wedded life in little, 
but lovely Scotch Plains, 
There was a delightful letter from 

NORB KAVAN.A.UGH yesterday. The 
letter-head read "Kavanaugh and 
Kavanaugh," supplanting the well 
known Portland firm — "Bowerman 
and Kavanaugh," Norb's implanta­
tion, I am sure, will add greater 
grandeur to that already illustrious 
firm, Norb sends favorable tidings 
regarding the University of Portland 
(good old Columbia) where he teaches 
a little law. Other notes from Port­
land concern EDDIE MURRAY who 
is running a lumber camp for his Dad 
in either Southern Washington or 
Oregon, and TOM McMAHON who 
also practices the law in Portland, 
MANS HAGERTY and HAROLD 

ROBERTSON were recent visitors 
from South Bend, Harold paid a 
brief business visit here last week 
and Mans I attended because of a 
slight accident he suffered en route 
(with wife and three children) from 
Boston to Florida, 
Others whom I see on occasion are JACK ADAMS whose vocation is storage (Manhattan) and avocation the Mercer Club of Montclair (group of Catholic young men and women) with which Jack has done a splendid job, . . . JOHN BARTLEY, '25, now a proud papa (Dr,) TOM SHEEN, '21, conducted the maneuvers making the incident entirely Notre Damish, , . . (Father) JOE TOOMEY, who directs the destinies of the Catholic Charities in the Diocese of Rochester. , . . JIM WALDRON, who has come out of the North a well man and carries on a large parking station business in downtown Newark. . . . the indefatigable ED HARGAN, who noctumally studies law, laboring in April, 1935 
the interests of a large Wall Street bank during the day ; , . LARRY KEEFE, whom we are pleased to have in Jersey on too rare occasions, practicing preventative medicine in the advocating of wider use of Lily-Tulip cups . . . KERNAN WIN­GERTER, who now manages the Brooklyn office of the G.M.A.C. , , , PAUL HARRINGTON, research en­gineer with the Standard Oil of New Jersey at BayAvay, and who lives im­mediately opposite Jake Purcell in Fanwood, 
Jake Purcell yesterday gave us an account of his recent meanderings throughout the states and the follow­ing morsels I have picked up from him: BEN BOURNE is doing well with the IngersoU-Rand Co, (pumps) in Phillipsburg, N, J, , , , DAN BRADY'S success ^\•ith Chevrolet as city manager in 'Frisco and Oakland is know to all of us , , , BERT DUNNE'S advertising achievements in the same vicinity you have re­ported , , . TONY CAVALE is with the Jones and Laughlin Steel Co, in Pitsburgh and lives in a suburb with wife and a brood of three or four, . . . LEW CODY is now a veteran with the Federal Electric in Chicago as is ANDY CONLIN with the Philip Collins Coal Co in the same city and GEORGE HARTNETT as a peanut v'endor (carload lots) , , , ED FAL­LON'S (law books, N,Y,C,) good work with the Metropolitan Club has already been mentioned in the ALUM­NUS . . . MAL KNAUS is with the General Electric in Detroit , , , MAURICE (MAC) McELLIGOTT has received his doctorate of medicine from Rush and is now preparing to serve time in a large metropolitan hospital. Here, Jim—and I'll prob­ably get hell from Mac for this— is one of us whose success deserves psalms of praise , . , CHUCK MOON­EY conducts an insurance business in Cleveland . . , JOE SHEA is con­vention manager for the Statler Ho­tels in Buffalo, [Ed's Note: More re­cently, Joe is with the Convention Department of the Palmer House, Chicago,] , , , SLIM DONOVAN is in Pittsburgh \vith the Recordak (East­man Kodak) Company , , , TOM RYAN is a successful barrister in our capital city, Trenton , , . JIM SILVER is doing well as an attorney for the HOLC in New Jersey and is now associated with Heine and Laird, Atorneys, of Newark, 
Every third or fourth moon I have greetings from JIM STACK and JOHN TUOHY, There are glowing reports I could make concerning Stack but let it suffice that, happily married, he is practicing surgery at 30 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, has enviable adjimct attendingships at the best hospitals in the city and is giving a course in "Fractures" at our medical mother—Northwestern. . , , John Tuohy, I am glad to say, is well but he has suffered greatly during the past two years in his bereavements. His mother and father, who were also my mother and father in Chicago, will always be remembered in the prayers of the many '26 men who knew and loved them. 
These occasional letters from John Tuohy and Jim Stack are now my only link with the midwest. This, Jim, is my own fault as I have be­come a "sluggard" with correspond­ence. It is not that I am continuous­ly busy with my practice but medi­cine, even for the neophyte, is a time-consuming task. All I desire, Jim, is news and I shall gladly report to you. I do hope that these scraps may stim­ulate the McQUAINS, the MURT CULLINANS and the BEOUS­SAEDS to render accounts of their stewardships. 
JEEEY HAYES. 

1927 
1927—Edmund DeCIerq. 81IS Ellis Ave.. Chi-c&go, Illinois. 
It's been a mighty long time since you have heard from me, and unless your memory is pretty good you have probably forgotten me long since. If that be the case it won't hurt to re­new old acquaintances. You knew me as the skinny little kid who used to be secretary to Dr. Cooney in the Journalism Depai-tment. Since that time I have battled back and forh with the rising and falling tide of business and at present I am connect­ed with the above fii-m. (Central Electric Company, Hattiesburg, Miss­issippi). 
I have been married quite a while and am now the proud father of a big three months' old boy, "Rupe" Jr. It will be some time, but I hope some day to send him up to N. D. 
There are two fellows whom I have little or nothing of or heard from for several years: BILL CAETEE and FEANK CONWAY. Put a little notice to these fellows in your next ALUMNUS and tell them that I would like very much to learn of their whereabouts, either through the ALUMNUS or directly. 
I was down in New Orleans last month and saw CYP SPORL, '28. He seems to be doing mighty well in the insurance finn of his father. N. D. boys are scarce articles down in this neck of the woods. However, I did see BILL MILLER, '30, a few months ago. He was in town on business and he dropped in to see me. FRANK CARIDEO was in town a good while back and came out to the house, but unfortunately I was not at home. I should like very much to have met him as he came to Notre Dame after my time. 
With kindest regards, I am, Your's sincerely, RUPE WENTWORTH. 
The 'N.otre T>ame cAlumnus 
1928 
1928—Louis Buckley. 7IS B. Corby St.. South Bend, Indiana. 
HENRY HASLEY, Fort Wayne, district deputy of the Knights of Co­lumbus, is one of the many Notre Dame men who are taking an active and very commendable part in the Mobilization for Catholic Action. In furthering the campaign Henry is speaking in many parts of Indiana. TIM GALVIN, PAT MANION, JAMES E. DEERY, CHARLES M. NIEZER are also active in the speak­ing campaign. Peter C. Reilly, a lay tnistee of the University, heads the mobilization program in the Indiana area. 
Professor LOtTIS F. BUCKLEY on March 7 spoke to the Y's Men's Club at the Y.M.C.A. in South Bend. You'd never guess his subject, of course, so we'll have to di\'ulge it right now: labor legislation. There! 
ART ZIMMERMAN, of Chicago, paid the Alumni Office a brief call on March 21 when he was down to South Bend on business. 
• 

1929 
192£>--Joseph McNaraara. 231 Wisconsin St,. Indiannpolis, Indiana. 
JOHN ROLISKY" is the new line coach at Creighton University, ser­ving under MARCHY SCHWARTZ, recently named head football coach. 
JAY WALZ, reporter and music critic on the South Bend News-Times, resigned in March to take up new work in the editorial department of the Washington (D.C.) Post. 
Registi-ar Riordan sends word that JOE MARTIN of Stamford, Connect­icut is attending Teachers College at Columbia University. 
GEORGE BEAMER, former city judge in South Bend, headed a group of South Bend, attorneys who, as Master Masons, directed the initia­tion or a class of lawyer-candidates into the South Bend lodge. No. 294, 
F. and A. M. 
'Member TED AUSTIN and how he regaled the various sessions of '27­'28-'29 with plans for a rugged out­door life that was to be his after col­lecting the sheepish-skin ? Your scribe once wagered seconds on refectory pie that Ted would pop into news print some day tagged ^rith a yam about explorations in some mumbo­jumbo land;—or at least achieve the fame of the cover of HARRY Mc-GUIRE'S Outdoor American. Well, ennihow, Ted has been discovered en­cased in a perfect fitting morning coat, ^rith gray striped trousers and other items of flawless attire. But Ted hasn't forgotten those early dreams of the rugged life—^he wears a gay gardenia in his buttonhole as a dedication to that ideal. . . . The reason for all this is that Austin is most successful as the manager, part-owner, and style dictator of Evan­
205 

ston's swankiest ladies pocketbook and hosieiy shop. Nice going, Ted! 
With thousands of aspiring young journalists in the head-lines, JOHN 
L. NANOVIC, ex-Jitggler editor, is the editor-in-chief of not one, but three of Street and Smith's publica­tions: The Sliadoiv, Doc Savage and Nick Carter. John sees LES GRADY, famous editor of Film Fun, every now and then. If his luck and money hold out, John hopes to trek back to Notre Dame this June to see his kid brother collect a sheepskin. We'll all be glad to see you at that time, John. 
JOHN NIXON DEROULET, twentj-­nine's trobadour extraordinary, has given up the man-about-the-world title he earned in various portions of Europe after that fateful June and has become equally famous as the man who brought about the success­ful marriage of Culture and Com­merce. Culture, which is John's stock in trade, was escorted by him on a triumphant tour of Milwaukee, Pe­oria, Evanston, and Indianapolis with­in the last month. John has a whole bag full of ideas for making money and the startling thing about them is that most of them work for him. Despite his development of business acumen, John still manages to be the affable, charming personality that he always was. We hope he brings his commercialized culture back soon. 
After the best sleuths in the coun­trv had failed to unearth him, WAL­TER BUR McMORROW gave himself up to the proper '29 authorities. It appears now that Bud is the branch manager of the New York Division of Defiance Spark Plugs, Inc., with offices at 450 Seventh Avenue, New York City. Those of us •who always admired Bud as the outstanding bach­elor of the Class were shocked to learn that he is not only fettered but also carries a picture of Walter J. Jr., eighteen months of age, around in his pocket. Bud, the same genial gen­tleman we admired of yore, resides at 54 Eveh-n Place, Bronx, New York City. 
Should you elude the dozen or so minions who guard a certain sanctu­ary in the Wrigley Building you might, by appearing to be an ad­vertiser looking for an opportunity to spend money, be ushered into the office of the sales promotion director of the western branch of the National Broadcasting Company. Achieving ttie distinction of meeting that offi­cial face to face you'd be surprised, —and then delighted, to discover that the title merely served to designate our old friend DICK ELPERS. Any­one whom you meet in Chicago will tell you that Dick's rise has been as Hoi-atio-Algerish as it has been de­served. 
• FRANK JONES contributes the following to this column from 802 LO.O.F. Building, South Bend: 
"In reading your account of the doings of the Class of '29, in the March ALUMXUS, I noticed a ques­tion as to what had become of the DICK BROTHERS. 
"I had the pleasure of visiting BOB DICK in Denver last summer. I find that he is a veiy happily mar­ried man and has a beautiful little daugter with perfect manners which she acquired, I am sure, from the mother. 
I received a letter from Bob on March 12 in which he informs me that BILL is working with the Amer­ican Steel & Wire Company; that HARRY LAWRENCE is a mining prospector; that CHARLIE HAS­KELL is the proud father of a boy. He Winchells that LOUIS HUGH is on the waiting list; that DOC DELE­HANTY has a fine baby boy. His letter may be best described as "Ba­bies, just babies." 
This mav supplv some of the in­formation OTIS WINCHESTER de­sired. 
Anyone wishing to get in touch with BOB DICK can write him c-o Smith, Brock, Akolt & Campbell, 1300 Telephone Building, Denver. Bob has connected with this firm and from my own knowledge their offices cover half the city of Denver." 
JOE MC NAMARA 
1930 
5-YEAR REUNION May 31, June 1 and 2 
1930 
1930—Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth SL. New Kendnglon, Pa. 
News is very scarce around here, but I am pleased to forward the few items that I have been able to collect. 
HARRY FRANCIS, our worthy Vice President, is busy keeping things on the move in Philadelphia and vicinity; however, you can de­pend upon him to desert the Quaker-town in May and lead a large conti­gent of our classmates to the re­union. MARTY BRILL will be with him, although Marty was last seen taking a boat ride to South America. 
JACK CANNON stopped off in Pittsburgh long enough to get caught in his fii-st snowstorm after leaving sunny Georgia. Count on Jack and his entire 230 lbs. to be on hand for the re-union. 
JIM DODSON is moving right along in the advertising department of the Pittsburgh Press. 
I don't remember if the ALUJIXUS noted that JOE KELLY of Brooklyn and Miss Edith Molinari were married last June, but his classmates should know about it. 
JOHN SMITH, '28, has taken on a big job as line coach at Duquesne University, but JOE BACH, '25, is the busiest coach in town with jobs with both the Pittsburgh Pirates and Carnegie Tech. 
FRITZ WILSON, the new Presi­dent of the N. D. Club of Western Pennsylvania, is in favor of a New Deal in our athletic relations with the University of Pittsburgh. Fritz feels that we have lost enough con­tests to Pitt and that its time that we win a few. Please tell Coach Nicholson that it is up to his track team to make the first move in this New Deal. 
Very sincerely, 
BERNIE CONROY. 
FIVE YEAR REUNION MAY 31, June 1-2 
The first meeting of the Class re­union committee was held April 1, in the Alumni Office. The following men, appointed by BERNIE CON­ROY, comprise the local committee: JOE APODACA;RALPH AUGUSO­VITZ; GUS BONDI; HERMAN CO­HEN; CHARLES DEWITT; HARRY DRAVES; JOHN GIBBONS; LOUIS HASLEY; WALTER LANGFORD; ARTHUR LASZLO; CARL MOORE; FRED PARENT; DEVERE PLUNK­ETT; KARL WEIGAND; EDWARD SMITH. GUS BONDI was elected chairman of the committee, and the next meeting will be held at his home, April 10. Tentative plans include a Class gathering on Friday night, May 31, at one of the South Bend hotels. Definite dope will be sent out soon. The boys hope to have a record-breaking crowd back this year, so plan to be here May 31, June 1 and 2. 
FRANCIS LEDERMAN is working for the Depai-traent of 1-ublic Welfare in Utica, New York. 
.\nd up in Chicago VIC JLARTZEL is doing a great job as a teacher at Mt. Carmel High School, one of the largest Catholic high schools in the countr}', where he has been since he finished in '30. When the Associate Editor \isited Mt. Carmel the other day Vic was on the welcoming com­mittee and said that he was looking forward eagerly to the re-union in June. Along with his teaching duties Vic has taken advanced work in Eng­lish in each of the principal univer­sities in the Chicago area. Mt. Car­mel, incidentally, has more boys at Notre Dame than any other high school in the world—and there are some 1,100 high schools now repre­sented on the campus—^with the ex­ception of Central in South Bend and the Holy Cross Seminary High School. 

ED SMITH, captain of the basket­ball team in 1929-30, was the princi­pal speaker at the second annual ath­letic banquet given by the Westmin­ster Presbyterian in South Bend a few weeks ago. 
RICHARD T. NEESON ivrites to Professor Willard Groom of his ac­tivities in Kentucky. He is organist of the Church of Saint Francis d'As­sisi in Louisville, and teaching a full schedule at Ormsby village. Anchor­age, Kentucky. He says that they are adhering strictly to the liturgical requirements in his church and in ad­dition endeavoring to have the very best choir in the diocese. To keep up the old Notre Dame spirit, Dick writes that he is studying violifi and taking a course in education. He took his Mus. Bach, degree in 1930, major­ing in piano, and with his minor as organ and has stayed consistently with the profession ever since. 
• 
1931 
1931—John E. Boland, 1402 Linden St., Scranton, Pa. 

BILL MCCARTHY, IS Llnwood Terrace, Kansas City, has recently had the Registrar transfer his credits to Rockhurst College, in Kansas City. He is taking evening classes in com­merce and finance. 
AL FERLINI sends word that he is teaching mathematics in South Side High School in Fort Wayne— and has since last September—and that he plans to attend the Notre Dame summer school this year for further graduate work. 
• 1932 

1932—Herbert Giorgio. 9005 188th St.. Hollij, 
L. I.. N. Y. 

• ED RADZUK, M.A., '32, has been appointed assistant director of social case work in St. Louis University and is a member of the faculty in the School of Social Ser\'ice. He is also continuing his law studies as well as his graduate work in preparation for his doctors degi-ee. Ed has been dis­trict superintendent of the St. Louis County Relief Association. 
• 1933 

1933—Donald Wise, 1246 Hillcrest Road. South Bend, Ind. 
March 20, 1935 

I have been intending to write to you for some time but I never did get around to it. I guess I will be given a front row seat in Hell if it is true that Hell is paved with good intentions. 
It might be of some interest to the members of '33 class that THOMAS 
F. MORROW, OS. '31, was married last Fall to lliss Thirza Jane Sax­ton. Thomas was my roommate in old Sophomore Hall until he left that January; 
JIM KRAUS stopped in the Alum­ni Office on March 1 after an all night drive through from Niagara Falls on his way to attend a funeral in Joliet, Illinois. Jim reported that WILBUR SHEEHAN is working for a utility company in Rochester and that CARLOS FRANK is with the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Com­pany in Buffalo. 
JOHN GALLA used St. Patrick's Day to write as follows: "Will you kindly change my addrcfes from the Ford Hotel, Buffalo, N. Y. to 291 Spring St., Bridgeport, Connecticut. 
"I am resigning my position with the Catholic Charities of Buffalo and assuming an executive position with the Welfare Department, Bridgeport, Connecticut, starting April 1, 1935." 
JOHN STAUNTON, B.S. in E.E., has been crashing into South Bend musical activities lately with a ven­geance. As librarian of Saint Pat­rick's choir. South Bend, he noticed the need of motets for the season of Epiphany, and promptly produced a beautiful "Jubilate Deo" for mixed chorus, in the contrapuntal stj'le of the Palestrina period. After com­posing the work Mr. Staunton dedi­cated the piece to Prof. Groom of the University Music Department and mimeographed forty copies for the choir of St. Patrick's church where it was artistically sung several times during January. Since Februarj' 1 Mr. Staunton has served as assistant organist to Mr. Groom at Saint Pat­rick's and has also become the tim­pani player in the University sjTn­phony orchestra. He is the son of the well known Prof. Henry Staunton of the Department of English, at Notre Dame. 
From the oiBce of the Chevrolet Motor Company, Harrisburg^ Penn­sylvania, where he is assistarlt office manager, JOHN McNEILL sent the following: 
I am enclosine two clippings from the Harrisburg MomingT elegraph on the death of JOE SULLIVAN. These may interest you to know that Notre Dame men alone did not feel the great loss that Joe's death has caused, but people, especially many people that have never seen Notre Dame, or had contacts with the school, feel that loss also. The article "Sports Shop" written by Mr. Clark, a writer that has never seen the school, was writ­ten with some assistance from me, but in his own words he says, "A person feels that Notre Dame is a place like I have attempted to de­scribe; that there's a certain spirit that enters into the name, Notre Dame." 
The few graduates that Han-isburg can boast offer their deepest sym­pathy to Notre Dame in the loss of Joe Sullivan. Notre Dame has lost a great athlete, student, and as we all try to be, a real Notre Dame man. We all know the men will cari-v on for ROCK, JOE, JOHNNY YOtJNG, GEORGE GIPP and the many loyal men that have gone before us. 
Harrisburg is proud to have two men at Notre Dame now, and I shall exert every effort to make that total grow with the years to come. 
I was up to Cincy not so long ago where I did see the Staley Bros, who are now aspiring to become big men with Proctor & Gamble Co. Sston is the Advertising Dept. with hopes of being placed with the Southern Sales Force. I am sorry that I do not know in what capacity Carroll is employed. That is about all that I know concerning my class. 
It looks as if the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky will have to go through some kind of reorganization. We have not had a meeting since the last Uni­versal N. D. night in 1934. Maybe some day we lazy Kentuckians uill wake up. 
RAYMOND NABER. 

1934 
1934—James Moscow, 2320 N. Lawndnle Ave.. Chicago, m. BERNARD WITUCKI, of South Bend, who was at Notre Dame for three years, on February 22 received the degree of bachelor of science in physical education fi-om George Washington University, in Washing­ton, D. C. 
GENE STRONG, who was on the campus in 1930-32, is about to take or has taken the Jlissouri State Bar exam, according to word shot along the line by Registrar Riordan. Gene is living at 7527 Westmoreland Ave­nue, Clayton, Missouri, a St. Louis suburb. 
ED JIANSFIELD, writing from his new post on the Catholic Week, Birmingham, Alabama, gives gener­ous news. He said in pai-t: 
Your recent campus supphment reached me well before my departure from Leaks\'ille, N. C. I thought it was an excellent idea, excellently done. I was in Greensboro, N. C, with an amateur basketball team that I managed and handled publicity for, the day after the supplement came in, and when I dropped in to see Eddie Mitchell, Daibj Neivs sorts edi­tor, I gave him the copy I had re­ceived. Thought he might be a good man to whom to give a bit of dope. If you have any more around, I could use a half-dozen or so down in this section. 
I'm behind on my N. D. correspon­dence with the men of '34, but I be­lieve these jottings are sufficiently up to date to be of use: 
BILL O'TOOLE is displaying his Irish charm and his smooth-flowing command of what Pittsburgh uses for English as secretary to the secretary of state in Pennsylvania, at Harris­burg. . . He can be reached there, and craves to be reached, if his last communication is trustworthy. . . VINCE FEHLIG still shows St. Louis what an economic major knows about lumber (I think it's lumber!) 
^SPRIflCTIfTlETOflK 
07c7^\%Vt(fMmt2 
Come to Nassau in the Bahamas .. . Come at Easter time when this un­spoiled paradise is a dreamy isle of a hundred and one enchanted pleasiues. 
Bathing in buoyant, transparent seas, basking in the sun on coral sands, sail­ing at twilight, dancing imder the stats, dreaming under tropical moons,—and sleep .. . deep, untroubled sleep. 
Awake to new pleasures .. . to ten­nis, to hunting, fisiiing and riding on fascinating bridle paths, to golf on palm-flanked feirways .. . awake to the beauty that is Nassau .. . to the quaint charm of its tinted houses, its walled gardens, its winding, old-world streets. 
Come to Nassau to "tau-up and tone-up" lot Summer. See your tourist agent or write— 
NASSAU Bahamas Information Bureau RKO BUILDING ROCKEFEILER. CENTER NEW YORK CITY 
DEVELOPMENT BOARD 
• NASSAU BAHAMAS , 

. Perhaps he's whittling mashie staffs. . . PAUL MANOSKl comes back to the campus occasionally, I hear, to check up on what the i-e­vamped journalism depai-tment is doing . . . Paul has been doing some free lance feature work around Hun­tington, BILL KENNEDY, law '35, tells me .. . ED KOSKY signed for another year at N. C. State under Anderson . . . Incidentally, Hunk is reputed to have a swell crop of fresh­men Footballers ready to achieve sophomoredom and stardom simul­taneously next fall. . . sports obser­vers in the daily sheets up home pre­dict a bigger year next year, with EVERETT ROBINSON, e.x-37, and EARL SCOFIELD, ex-37, among the stars-to-be . . . ROBINSON is the sensation of spring practice . . . Didn't get any notice last fall as a frosh, because he couldn't play in the five regular frosh games because of his foi-mer N. D. affiliation . . . SCO­FIELD broke his leg recently, and won't be back in action until next fall. 
BERNARD DORIS (Cokey!), e.x­'34, is now Frater Fabian, O.S.B., at Belmont Abbey . . . Saw him recent­ly . . . Still full of N. D. fervor and Augusta, Georgia enunciations . . . WORTH (ANDY) ANDREWS, '34, thrice all-campus interhall football center, is applying Dean McCarthy's principles in his dad's store, Augusta, 
208 The "N o t T e 'Dame cA lumnus April, 1935 Georgia . . . ANDY and I got to-
FR. J. H.MULLH *11, OBSERVES ANNIVERSARY 
together for an awful session this 
summer . . . He can be reached at Andrews Brothers, Broad Street, Augusta . . . 
CHARLES (Beejay), LITTY, an­other one of my stooges, was try­ing to wind up things for a connec­tion with the Gi-ace Lines last time we heard . . . Our apologies to him, wherever he mav be, for failing to write . . .HANK GANNON, BOB NACHTWEY, JIJI MURPHY, those niidnight-oil-burning medicoes, are batching it togetlier while attending St. Louis IMed. School . . . JOHN RICHARD HAGAN (so his hi-de-hi Christmas card engraving shouted) is doing his bit in Youngstown, Ohio . . . GENE BLISH is actually tied up with an accounting job with a Denver fii-m, after those millions of letters he tapped out in the still of the niglit back in .319 Sorin . . . JOHNNY "RED" TOBIN, the hard-luck half, showed the .A.merican League pro football fans how N. D. halfbacks should go about thing.-; . . . He played last fall with Dallas, Tex­as, and then went to the Memphis Tigers near the end of the season . . . Saw his name listed with the all-star team chosen by the AP from league rosters . . . Since then he's dropped from sight, and owes me a letter to boot . . . Bad business, both. 
FRANK THOMAS, the Alabama gentleman, s u h , who instructed Thornhill's tinjnnites in certain form.-; •of football fundamentals one recent New Year's day, is kingpin down in this Birmingham sector, trailed by Octa\-us Roy Cohen and John Jlack Brown . . . FRANK KOSKY is coaching at Roanoke College, Roan­oke, Virginia, so 1 noticed in last fall's Ejjort columns . . . Has been there since his graduation several 
years ago. 
Noticed an NCWC story that's here on the desk for next week's issue, telling about the aviation, poli­tics, architecture departmental chan­ges. N. D. moves on. Great stuff. Glad to hear it. 
Will Rogers attracted much atten­tion of the right sort to Notre Dame last fall, late, when his Sunday and daily dispatches about his visit there appeared in South'n papers. A num­ber of people here—excluding myself: I was asleep, 1 think!—and in Leaks-ville heard the banquet broadcast, and chuckled for days over the Rog­ers sallies. 
That about winds up the grad notes at random. 
The magazine has been good this year, I think. Keep up the good work. Better change my address to Box 2109, Birmingham. 
Sincerely, 
Edward F. Mansfield, '34. 
On Wednesday, Februarj- 27, Fa­ther John H. MuUin, '11, pastor of the Church of St. .-Anthony, in Cas­per, Wyoming, obseri'ed the twentieth anniversary of his ordination to the priesthood. 
He was ordained in Rome in the Church of St. John Lateran on Feb­ruary 27, 191.5, and practically all the years of his priesthood have been spent in Casper. 
From the Casper Tribune-Herald comes a clipping which tells of the genuinely fruitful pastorate of a ster­ling alumnus. The newspaper story overlooks only the fact that in his 20 years in Casper Father MuUin had recorded .321 conversions to the Cath­olic faith. 
The clipping—in part: Prior to going to Rome, Father Mullin took his college work at the Universit}- of Notre Dame, from which he was graduated with an 
A.B. degree in 1911. His element­ary education was received in St. John's parochial school of his na­tive town, Pittston, Pa., and he was graduated from high school in 1907. 
All of his priestly life, except for a period of a few months in New­castle, Wyo., has been spent here. Aside from building up the parish spiritually, he has done much ma­terially. This is evidenced by the fact that when he took over the par­ish the total material assets were estimated at §2.=5,000 while today they have a valuation of S300,000. 
Numbered among these assets are the church, the school, the Mullin club, the convent, and the rectory. The church is regarded as one of the finest and most beautiful in this section of the Rocky Mountain re­gion. 
The school has the first eight ele­mentary grades complete, and 11 Sisters make up tlie personnel. There are 320 children eni-olled in the school. In addition to the religious foundation given in the school, a course of education equal to that of the state schools is followed. 
A scene of many memorable gatherings is the Mullin club, which was built in 1917 to fill the widely felt need of a hall where the youth of the communit}' could meet and carry on activities of a social, spir­itual and civic nature. 
The club was so named in honor of the founder and donor of the building. During the World war it was headquarters for the local Red Cross organization under the direc­tion of the Presbj-terian minister, and many young men who left for the war look back upon the place as the scene of their parting banquet and fond farewell. 
He has travelled widely, having made two tours of Europe and sojourned into Egj-pt, Africa and other parts of the world. During his sojourns at Rome the pastor at­tended the papal elevations of Pope Pius X, Pope Benedict XIV, and Pope Pius XI, successively. 
In addition to his being pastor of St. Anthony's church here Father Mullin is one of the deans and con-suiters in the diocese of Cheyenne. 
Throughout the 20 years of his residence in Casper, he has become widely known for his leadership in religious and civic activities and has gained a host of friends of all creeds and from all walks of life, in this and many other states and in distant lands. 
He has witnessed during those 20 years here the phenomenal growth of Casper from a small western town to its present day metropolitan size, and with that growth he has done his part in contributing toward the citv's advancement. 

MAKE N. D. GOLF COURSE MORE DIFFICULT 
When the William J. Burke Uni­versity golf course at Notre Dame was opened last month, the aspiring Bobby Joneses among the student body found themselves faced with a vastly changed course from the one they deserted last fall. 
Work begun in the fall and re­cently finished has made a "golfer's nightmare" out of a course that was formerly difficult because of the its length. Ten additional traps have been placed around the course and six others have been i-emodeled to make them more effective. 
The green on No. 7 has been com­pletely remodeled, being rebuilt to a length of 10.5 feet and widened to make its area approximately 9,450 square feet. The green on No. 15 has also been noticeably changed. By closing off adjacent fairways, its area has been almost doubled. 
The landscape itself will present a changed appearance, with the addi­tion of 125 trees and 250 shrubs planted throughout the course. 
Soon after the course was closed last fall, a group of senior civil engi­neers, headed by Jerome Gushing, pi'esident of the Engineers club, made a complete survey of the course, determining the exact lengths of holes, and making a contour map which may be used in the installation of a new watering svstem. 
4,^Z^L 

NEW LASALLE 
ASPVCHJ:/ n^^Mj b-ei'fctntaKCC 
ENTERS A LOWER-PRICE FIELD 
^1225 
IjADILLAC is proud today to an­nounce its latest achievement... a brilliant, flashing new La Salle, with . . . 
PERFORM/VNCE of an inspiring new type... responsively eager in traffic, swift and unlabored on the hills, faster and smoother on the open road. Yet performance that carries with it new economies of operation. 
security . . . the solid steel Turret-Top body. And the safety of big, capable, hydraulic brakes. 
QUALITY of unusual character.. . . Throughout its sturdy chassis and throughout its luxurious interior, trimly tailored in quality fabrics, the new La Salle is a tribute to fine car ideals. This is but natural.. . for it is designed and built by Cadillac. 
Tlie new La Salle is now on display at the salesrooms of your Cadillac-
STYLING . . . that is smarter than La Salle dealer. You are cordially 
and up, list prior at the (jtjlllac Jac­fory, Detroit, ytlchlfLan. OJJered In that of the style-selling La Salle of invited to see it and to drive it to 
four motlAs. Model Illustrated, the Four-Door Touring Sedan, list price, $1^5, last year. judge its exceptional value and its Special eijulpment extra. IM Salle Is a 
SAFETY . . . that includes the latest brilliant performance for youfself. 
product of General Sluturs, and acall-

Fisher contribution to motoring 
aile on cuntenlent C. M, A, C, terms. CVDILLVC 5IOTOR CVR CO.MP.4NY 
© 1935. LlCCETT & MVEBS ToBACCO Co , 





