The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

f-^^-^.­
iri I • 
* * •••» 
b5^i 

'^.^^^^.^^e-^^^.i^':^^­

N 
^ — ­


VOL. 49, NO. 6 DECEMBER, 1971 
James D . Cooncy '59 ExECUTi\x DIRECTOR ALUMNI ASSOCIATION EDITOR 
Timothy J. Hughes *61 AIANAGING EDITOR Georsc A. Scheuer *28 
CHIEF COPY EDITOR James Fanto '73 EDITORIAL ASSISTANT 
M. Brace Harbn '49 CHIEF PHOTOGRAPHER 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFFICERS 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 HONORARY RIESIDEN'T Robert A. Erkins '45 PRESIDENT John T. Classman '56 
VICE-PRESIDENT, ADMINISTKATU-E AFFAIRS 
Frank L, McGinn '52 VICE-PRESIDENT, ALUMNI AFFAIRS Robert L. McGoIdrick '56 VICE-PRESIDENT, STUDENT AFFAIRS Leonard H. Tose *37 VICE-PRESIDENT, ACADEMIC AFFAIRS James D. Cooncy *59 E?tECUTi\x DIRECTOR Michael E. Jordan '68 ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 


DIRECTORS TO 1972 
Robert A. Erkins '45, P.O. Box 546, Buhl, Idaho 83316 John T. Massman '56, 3917 Broadway, Kansas City, Mo. 64111 Frank L. McGinn '52, 900 BIdg., Pompano Beach, Fla. 33052 Robert L. McGoIdrick '56. 15 Drury Lane, West Hartford, Conn. 06117 Leonard H. Tose '37, 64 W. 4th St., Bridge­port, Pa. 19405 

DIRECTORS TO 1973 
Daniel D. Canalc '42, 1325 Commerce Title BIdg., Memphis, Tenn. 38103 
Dr. John C. Lungren '38, 4180 Chestnut Ave., Long Beach, Calif. 90807 
James C. MacDevitt '35. 43 Hampshire Rd., Great Neck, N.Y. 11023 
Joseph T. O'Neill '53, 60 W. 4th St., St. Paul. Minn. 55102 
John R. PancIIi '49, 17549 Kirkshire, Bir­mingham, Mich. 48009 

DIRECTORS TO 1974 
Joseph G. Bertrand '54, 8114 S. Luella Ave., Chicago, 111. 60617 Paul J. Doyle '36, 5061 Cedar Creek Dr., Houston, Tex. 77027 Peter F. Fkherty '51. 5033 Castleman St., Pituburgh, Pa. 15232 William K. McGo»-an Jr. '57, 108 Pcnnsyl­^•ania Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 46204 Charles F. Osbom '38, 73I5-51st N.E., Seattle, Wash. 98115 1971 Notre Dame ALUMNUS, University- of Notre Dame, all rights reserved. Reproduc­tion ill whole or in part without written permission is prohibited. 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is published monthly, except January, Afarch, May. August and November, by the University of Notre Dame. Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
FEATURES 6 On the Rocks? 8 A Matter of Money 
12 Soldier of Science DEPARTMENTS 
3 ND News 
5 Student View 16 Class Notes 43 Club News 49 Graduate Sctiools 50 Alumni Ask 51 Alumni Speak 




Notre Dame Magazine 
There's at least one merger around announcement came as we were in here that will be carried off on the middle of our press run. This is schedule—that of ALUMNUS and IN­the first time I've ever had to shout SIGHT. The two will become one in "Stop the presses." It was a disap­February and come to you under the pointing task. masthead—^NOTRE DAME MAGAZINE. Jim Cooney gives the details on page 
51. We hope you will be pleased with the new product. 


-^/A 

As to the other merger—^well, the 
A BOOK FOR ALL SEASONS 
What does Ara Parseghian do after the game? If the new NOTRE DAME COOKBOOK is any indication, he spends part of his time in the kitchen putting together his favorite recipe of stuffed grape leaves. It is just one of the many recipes in the cookbook by the culinary experts in Notre Dame's family. Rev. Jerome J. Wilson CSC, vice president for business affairs, provides you with his no-nonsense recipe for 15-minute spaghetti. And another highly placed ND gourmet. Rev. James 
T. Burtchaell CSC, provost, reveals a recipe for oyster stew that will warm the hearts of alumni, faculty and students alike. 
The NOTRE DAME COOKBOOK is conveniently divided into sections that include recipes for rally parties, before-the­game brunches and lunches, postgame cocktail parties and buffet dinners. But don't let this fool you. NOTRE DAME COOKBOOK recipes will serve you the year around, no mat­ter what the season. 
All profits from sales of the NOTRE DAME COOKBOOK will be used by the Notre Dame Library Association to buy materials for the Rare Book Room. The cookbook can be ordered for $4.45, including postage and handling, Notre Dame Library Assoc, P.O. Box 45, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

THCUH AWVI 
Dr. Joseph M. Duffy, a professor of English at ND since 1954, has been named one of the ten 1971 winners of the Danforth Foundation's E. Harris Harbison Award for Gifted Teaching. Duffy, who will receive a $10,000 grant with the award, is the second Notre Dame faculty member in three years to be so honored. Rev. John S. Dunne CSC, a theologian, won the award in 1969. 
Duffy attended Columbia Univer­sity, Harvard, the University of Chi­cago, where he received his doctorate in 1954, and did post-doctoral studies at the University of Leeds in England. Students who have had Duffy's course, Literature and the Imagination, con­sider it one of the two or three best courses they have taken at ND. Their opinion of Duffy's teaching ability is exhibited by this evaluation published in the student-edited Scholastic maga­zine: "Duffy is a brilliant lecturer who demands only the interest of his stu­dents. . . . This is the study of litera­ture at its finest, critical hardnosed best." 
The Harbison awards were named in honor of the late E. Harris Harbi­son, professor of history at Princeton University and a former trustee of the Danforth Foundation. Winners of the award are chosen annually by panels of educators who make their selections from nominations submitted by col­leagues, students, past award winners, and college and university presidents. The nominee must be teaching in an 
Dr. Joseph M. Duffy 

accredited college or university and served as a full-time faculty member for at least five years. According to Danforth Foundation president Mer­rimon Cuninggim, the nominee is judged on his capability as . . . "an articulate, passionate teacher who views education as a spiritual affair .. . a universal teacher who cares about values, society as a whole and human beings." 
New Facilb 
Notre Dame added 85 new faculty and staff members this fall. Rev. James T. Burtchaell CSC, provost, has announced. In addition, 28 will return from leave during the aca­demic year while 113 have announced plans to leave and 35 will go on leave. 
New in the Department of Mathe­matics are Theodore J. Barth Jr., Francis X. Connelly, Richard H. Es­cobales Jr., Joseph A. Gallian, Wil­liam L. Goodhue, William C. Hale, Thomas A. Mclntyre, V. Frederick Rickey, Malladi Sitaramayya and Da­vid H. Tracy; in the Law School (London Program) are John Dela­fons, Helen Galas, Burton K. Haimes, Patricia Harmer, Leonard H. Leigh, Ronald H. Maudsley and Keith Uff. Femand N. Dutile is joining the cam­pus Law School. 
The Department of Philosophy adds Sheilah Brennan, Brian Cooney, Ken­neth Goodpaster, Earl Ludman and Peter McCormick; the Department of Biology, Reinhart Brust, Robert P. Fiorindo, John F. O'Malley, Quentin 
E. Ross, William Surver Jr., and Thomas A. Troeger; the Department of Theology, Rev. Robert C. Anto­nelli CSC, Roberta C. Chesnut. Rev. Donald McNeill CSC, Rev. Leonel Mitchell, Rev. Ronald T. Schmidt and John H. Yoder. 
New in the Department of Sociol­ogy and Anthropology are Edward L. Fink, Kook Ching Huber, Lincoln 
C. Johnson, James J. Noell, Tom T. Sasaki and Kathleen M. Weigert; the Department of Government and In­ternational Studies, Peri E. Arnold, Wesley W. Daley, Peter R. Moody Jr., and Christopher Osakwe; the De­partment of English, Maben D. Her­ring, John J. McDonald, William J. Reeves and Daniel J. Sullivan Jr.; 
the E>epartment of Economics, Dennis 
M. Byrne, Horace R. Carby-Samuels and Stanley H. Masters; the Depart­ment of History, Lawrence Bradley, Rev. Jay Dolan and Brother Bernard 
F. Donohoe CSC; the Department of Modem and Classical Languages, William J. Hunt, Thomas W. Renaldi and Marie-Claire Royer, and the De­partment of Management, Yu-Chi Chang, George E. Manners Jr., and Matt M. Starcevich. 
The Department of Communication Arts adds James P. Carroll and Don McNeill; the Department of Finance, Edward J. Farragher and Howard P. Lanser; the Department of Architec­ture, Rein Pirn and Enrico Plati; the Memorial Library, Robert D. Nich­ols and David Sparks; Military Sci­ence, Lieut. Col. Frank K. Kulik Jr., and Capt. John R. Tufano; the De­partment of Psychology, Donald Wal­ter and Rev. Jerome Rene Wilett, and the Freshman Year of Studies, Daryl Glick and Rev. Thomas E. Seidel CSC. 
Also new are William E. Biles, aerospace and mechanical engineering; Richard Emge, Center for Continuing Education; David J. Fielding, civil engineering; Lois Godersky, micro­biology; Carl J. Magee, electrical en­gineering; Kenneth W. Milani, ac­countancy; Philip T. Sciortino, gradu­ate studies in education; Kenneth F. Thibodeau, general program; Sister 
M. Robertia Urban OP, music, and Amo O. Zozki, physical education. 
ULUKEkrk 
The editor of the student-published Notre Dame Lawyer, William J. Maledon of Detroit, Mich., has been selected by U.S. Supreme Court Jus­tice William J. Brennan to serve as a clerk on his staff during the 1972-73 term. 
As a clerk Maledon will be involved in research and preliminary prepara­tion of opinions on issues presented to the high court for decisions. Ap­pointment to the judicial staff is lim­ited to two law graduates for each justice. 
Maledon, a third-year student in Notre Dame's Law School, received an undergraduate degree in econom­ics from Loyola University, Chicago. 

New Hlstora Heed 

Dr. Philip J. Gleason has been named chairman of the ND history depart­ment by Rev. James T. Burtchaell CSC, provost. He succeeds Dr. Vin­cent P. DeSantis, who will continue to serve as a professor in the de­partment. 
The editor of a current book, "Catholicism in America," Gleason is the author of several articles on the history of the Church, including "Mass and Maypole Revisited: Amer­ican Catholics and the Middle Ages." 
A native of Wilm.ington, Ohio, Gleason received an undergraduate degree in education at the University of Dayton and graduate degrees at ND. Before joining the faculty in 1959 he served as a management as­sistant for the Air Research and De­velopment Command, Baltimore, Md. 

Belieien end Tbeeleosi 
Religious education is not a branch of theology but a form of social science which needs "demythologizing," a University of Notre Dame professor of education argues in his newly published book. The book, entitled "The Shape of Religious Instruction," is being published by Pflaum/Stand­ard, Dayton, Ohio, and has met with a mixed reception from professionals in the field of religious education. 
Dr. James M. Lee, former chairman 
of ND's graduate department of edu­
cation, makes a distinction between 
teaching religion and teaching the­
ology. "Teaching religion means build­
ing the entire class around changing 
the student's understanding, attitudes 
and way of life along religious lines. 
Teaching theology, on the other hand, 
is simply to teach the basic theologi­
cal facts and concepts which under­
lie an individual's faith in a particular 
religious denomination," he said in an 
interview. 

Since, according to Lee, learning 
religion is not basically different from 
learning something like citizenship, he 
wants religious education "demythol­
ogized," removed from the supersti­
tious or overly supernatural trapping 
and put into a framework of learned 
intellectual, attitudinal-lifestyle be­
havior. 

Lee states that the field of religious education has not matured because it has been used as a "messenger boy" for theology. He feels that theologians have used religious education simply as a "methodological railway" to ship theology from teacher to student. He believes that just as religious counsel­ing became a worthwhile psychological discipline after disjoining itself from theology, so also will religious educa­tion become a more effective branch of education if it disenfranchises itself from theological affiliations. 
Lee's theoretical ideas influence his direction of the graduate program in religious education at ND, in which he aims at developing a specialist in modifying students' behavior along religious lines by emphasizing the structure of the learning situation. Lee uses a "studio-classroom" equipped with three videotape camera-recorder­playback machines to analyze teaching behaviors in religion classes. About one-third of Lee's curriculum is in pastoral theology, compared with what he said was an average of 80 to 90 per cent theological content in other programs. Nontheological courses in­clude such subjects as the teaching process and the development of reli­gious attitudes. He predicts that by 
1980 most religious education pro­grams will have switched from the theological approach to the social science approach. 
Lee, who received his doctorate from Columbia Teachers College in 1958, has been at ND since 1962. He served five years as chairman of the Department of Education and has written or edited seven other books on various aspects of Christian education. 


AmoiBt Diniciip 
Dr. John F. FitzGerald, professor of philosophy at ND, has been appointed acting director of the University's Center for the Study of Man in Con­temporary Society by Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh CSC. The Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society is a University institute which coordinates interdisciplinary research in the humanities and social sciences. 
FitzGerald, who has taught at Notre Dame since 1937, succeeds Rev. Ernest J. Bartell CSC, who resigned Sept. 1 to assume the presidency of Stonehill College, North Easton, Mass. FitzGerald received his under­graduate degree from Boston College in 1933 and his doctorate from the University of Louvain in Belgium in 1937. He recently served as acting chairman of the Department of Phi­losophy and was the former head of the Association of Chairmen of Doc­toral Programs in Philosophy in American Catholic Universities. 

HISTORIC MEETING —Robert A. Erkins, president of the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion Board of Directors, and Karen Galvin, president of the St. Mary's College Alumnae Board, share the symbolic gavel before the first session of the two boards on the Notre Dame campus in October. The two associations are working out arrangements for closer cooperation as the result of the unification of St. Mary's and Notre Dame. 
Liikiii at AlmiK 
by Jim Fanto '73 
It seems most appropriate for me to 
take advantage of this column to cite 
one student view which many of you 
take issue with—that of a student's 
conception of alumni. Granted, I can­
not speak knowledgeably for all stu­
dents, yet I can relate to you the com­
mon caricature of alumni which I 
have heard described by • students. 
Whether a misconception, opinion, or 
truth—depending on how one regards 
it—this stereotype regularly emerges 
in student conversation. 
The "typical" alumnus is a grey­haired man who attended ND when attendance at morning Mass was man­datory for all students. This hypotheti­cal alumnus is conservative and natu­rally, opposed to any changes within the University. He frequently remi­nisces about his undergraduate days at du Lac, poking fun at the man­nerisms of contemporary students. True, he donates money to the Uni­versity, but not to support the intel­lectual and social changes at ND. He wants only a good seat for all home football games. 
This student conception of alumni arises from the few contacts an aver­age student has with alumni. Almost all students meet alumni before they enter ND. An alumnus acquaintance of a student, perhaps a family friend or a high school counselor, often was the one who first interested him in ND. All prospective freshmen are en­couraged to come to a local ND alumni club meeting specifically ori­ented at presenting ND to the new students. 
It is sad, but true, that these pre­freshman year meetings constitute perhaps the only personal contact students will have with alumni for his entire four years at ND. Further­more, the student meets only a few alumni club members who present a limited vision of campus life. They allude mostly to the fall football schedule and their own experiences at ND, avoiding contemporary student life and academic programs. 
Because of this, the student does not come away from the meetings with a complete knowledge of what alumni do for the University. Thus, rumor adds to the student's conception of alumni. In the past, alumni have sup­ported many administrative decisions, such as parietals, that are unpopular among students. Consequently, a con­ception of alumni as authoritarian figures has arisen and has been pro­mulgated each year in the campus student media. 
A student's view of alumni who come on campus does nothing to dispel the alumni stereotype. When I speak of alumni on campus, I allude to the football season that brings many of them to the home games. Actually, a student only sees the alumni—^he rarely meets or speaks with them. He watches them wander about campus reminiscing around old haunts, and he may open his door to the knock of an alumnus who wants to tour his "old room." 
The student conception of alumni is a gross caricature for the most part. Staunch Catholic or conservative alumni exist, rabid football-enthusiast alumni exist—but this "alumni con­ception" obscures the total picture of graduates. Individual alumni who help struggling students through school, who search for minority students, and who perform countless other tasks for ND go unnoticed. The majority of alumni have gone along with the planned merger of SMC and ND. Above all, students fail to realize that many of their friends who have gradu­ated are alumni as well as a good number of faculty and administrators. These alumni the students know per­sonally. 
A lack of communication exists be­tween students and alunmi that per­petuates the one-sided, and at times, harmful conception of alumni. Since our four years at ND are times of wonder, reflection, and occasions for founding lasting friendships, many students feel an attachment to the school and a desire to aid the Uni­versity after their graduation. Many alumni fulfill this desire. Their actions should be explained to the students by more meetings on and off the campus, between students and alumni. After all, we should let our common and continuing experience at ND, rather than our age differences, be the basis of our relationships. 
TRY IT, YOU'LL LIKE IT! 
Eight days in Ireland. It's the latest European excursion pack­age offered by the Notre Dame Alumni Association In co­operation with Alumni Holidays, Inc. The escapade will take place April 22-30, 1972, with Marion and Jim Armstrong your hosts. 
Discover the world of balladeers, tail tales, rich food, ancient pubs and storybook scenery. There are castles, manor houses and quaint villages to see and photograph. You will see sparkling lakes, brooding forests, and green velvet country­side. You will sample Irish coffee, Guiness stout, fruitcake, Irish hams, bacon and soda bread. 
As Jim says: "For many alumni, they will walk over the graves of the various kings of Ireland who were their fore­bears. For the rest, the philosophy which shaped the Fighting Irish from the melting pot spirit of Notre Dame will find you just as welcome and at home." Package price: $329 per person plus 10 per cent taxes, services. From New York. For more information write: Alumni Association, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


N THE BOCKS? 
(continued from cover) 

unified. Some of us with little more 
to do in off hours had even fiddled 
with the dilemma posed by "While her 
loyal sons go marching " 
The inevitable question of course, is "what went wrong?" And, offi­cials on both sides are playing it close to the vest. So much so, in fact, that time may not even tell what, or who, threw the monkey wrench into the works. But, that's not unusual. I'm still trying to find out what made Ara walk out of the Morris Inn in 1963. 
The official word is that "financial and administrative problems" inter­vened, which covers a multitude of sins. I don't want to throw stones or speculate unduly here, but it is known that there were several major concerns throughout the stages of negotation. Primary among them was whether or not SMC could extricate itself suf­ficiently from the total community of Holy Cross Sisters and their apos­tolic enterprises including hospitals, schools, etc., in order to negotiate relatively independently. The total group shares some common purchas­ing, personnel and financial arrange­ments. Diminution of one would affect the whole. While ND is owned by a Board of Trustees, predominantly lay, and thereby an autonomous entity, SMC is ovraed by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, each of whom is a "stock­holder" in the College. These different negotiating postures were bound to create highly complex problems. 
Additionally, the Motherhouse of the CSC Sisters is located at Saint Mary's. Outright sale of the College's facilities therefore, was unlikely, since part of them are used for non-Col­lege purposes. Lease arrangements would have to be flexible enough to accommodate a growing and diverse University, while sensitive to the needs and interest of a group of aging and retired nuns, as well as the housing and education of those taking their places. 
A predominant question, of course, was whether or not ND, experiencing its share of the financial pressures facing all private higher education. 
would or could afford whatever lease 
arrangements the sisters might require. 
A third nagging concern which surfaced early was the question of SMC security . . . the effect merger would have on the College's 125-year heritage .. . and importantly the role and influence members of the Col­lege would have in the emerging Uni­versity. Did unification really mean institutional conjunction .. . or did it signify total absorption of SMC by ND? 
These are doubtless anguished if not downright embarrassing days for ad­ministrators and Trustees on both sides of the Dixie. Proponents of the "I told you so" school will point out that as a first order of business the schools should have determined the financial possibilities, before signing agreements and sending the troops onward and upward. And, history may support that thesis. But, one imagines, it must have been felt by those involved that two institutions whose physical separation amounts to four lanes of asphalt, but which other­wise boast a common founder (whose founding budget was $437.00), in­tertwined histories, common religious heritage, and thousands of graduates who have forged their own unifica­tions, . . . that somehow neither ideologies nor finances nor identity questions could stand in the way of the union. But, obviously something has. Perhaps many things. We hope to shed sufficient light on the matter in the next issue of our magazine. For the moment, the facts have not all been revealed. 
One can't help but feel a haunting sadness that at a time in history when private institutions of higher educa­tion are going out of business with alarming frequency . . . when there is unprecedented division within every unit of society, the family, the state, the Church, and yes, the University . . . Notre Dame and Saint Mary's aren't seeking the solution together . . . they're part of the problem. 
The disappointment is more than personal. At this writing SMC stu­dents and some of their faculty are up in arms over what many consider to be the College's breach of coedu­cational promise. Class boycotts have been suggested. "Demands" include a look at the College's books, public release of the minutes of Trustees' meetings, reopening of the negotia­tions, etc. It remains to be seen how strong current resolve will be. Student revolts have a habit of flickering out when time and/or the weather inter­vene. 
One wonders though if SMC stu­dents aren't being just a bit unfair to the college. While it is doubtless that deepening relations with Notre Dame appealed to many applicants in recent years (applications as of Dec. 2 for the 1972 school year were up 23% for males and 50% for females), neither the College nor the University promised current students a fully co­educational program prior to their enrollment. Possible exceptions are the handful of freshmen who may have applied and been accepted after the unification announcement last spring. But, the fact that the an­nouncement was made at all (though couched in terms indicating financial arrangements were pending and would govern ultimate decision) caused the students to presume coeducation was just around the comer. The current impasse in the student mind, there­fore, represents just another instance wherein the establishment says one thing and does another. 
ND students seem to be sitting this one out, since they're getting what they had campaigned for anyway. While they empathize with their feminine counterparts, most are con­tent to sit back and as usual tolerate the rhetorical bombast of the student press which predicts SMC's future as a "second-rate finishing schools for morons." 
Obviously emotions are high, and disappointment general. The whole thing was a valiant effort carried out in the best of faith, but perhaps with the agenda a bit askew. The episode is not without some benefit. Unifica­tion at some yet unnamed date may still be possible. Previous barriers to communication and other relation­ships between the two schools have lifted on a number of levels. The stu­dent bodies, their organizations and activities, are virtually integrated now. Academic cooperation is at the highest level ever and should continue. Notre Dame will be a coeducational insti­tution next fall. And the Alumni/ Alumnae Associations, their Clubs and programs have already entered a new era of cooperation and inter­action. 

The courtship-marriage rhetoric has been much overdone but, as the old saying goes, perhaps it's better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all. 
I MtriEP 
The proposed merger between the University and Saint Mary's College was suspended indefinitely Nov. 30 
In a joint statement. Mother M. Olivette Whalen, CSC, chairman of Saint Mary's Trustees, and Edmund 
A. Stephan, head of ND's Board, an­nounced that it was not possible for the two schools "to accomplish com­plete unification at this time" because of an inability to solve "financial and administrative problems." 
At the same time coeducation at NDwa s assured with the announce­ment that women would be admitted directly to the undergraduate program of the University for the first time in history next fall. Father Hesburgh said an estimated 250 women, roughly divided between freshmen and upper-division transfer students, would be accepted for the 1972-73 school year. Thus, about 1,000 women would be full-fledged Notre Dame students by the 1976-77 school year. 
The student exchange program with Saint Mary's, which is six years old this year and involves hundreds of students who take courses on each campus, will be retained, although for the first time there will be a financial reckoning between the two schools for tuition, library services and use of athletic facilities. The two schools also have agreed that Saint Mary's women who major in the Colleges of Business Administration or Engineer­ing may receive Notre Dame degrees since Saint Mary's does not offer courses in these fields. 
The advances in collaboration made since the intent to unify was announced last May will be examined individually to see if they can be beneficial even under the revised separate-institution framework. "The advisability of merging certain aca­demic departments and major pro­grams will be studied further by the faculty and administrative personnel involved," the joint statement noted. On the administrative side, the major unifications occurred in public infor­mation, the registrar's office, and ad­missions; each will have to be studied to determine if a unified operation is to be retained. 
Officials of both schools declined to elaborate on the "financial and ad­ministrative problems" which collaps­ed unification negotiations, except to say that discussions had terminated amicably. "The two institutions still recognize unification as a goal to be desired and hopefully to be achieved in the future," the joint statement said. 
Saint Mary's announced that a special meeting of its trustees would take up the question of its future as a Catholic women's college, concen­trating on its liberal-arts orientation, expanded to include health-related fields "and other innovative programs significant to contemporary society." 
While disappointment was wide­spread following the announcement, it was most evident among Saint Mary's students, who geared up campaigns to challenge the decision within hours after it was announced. "There are no heroes or villains," Father Hesburgh told a group of stu­dents. "We all tried very hard to get everything together. But it didn't work. We're confident, though, it will all work out in time." 

StlMNIt 

The University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College have decided, after a series of high-level meetings, that it is not possible to accomplish complete unification at this time. For the present, we are unable to solve financial and administrative problems. Progress has been made toward unifi­cation since the intent of the two institutions was announced last May, much of it due to the substantial work of the four inter-institutional com­mittees. It is planned that many of these newly formed bridges between the two institutions, academic and otherwise, will be preserved and strengthened. Students from each in­stitution will continue to have access to the other institution in many ways. 
While Notre Dame and Saint Mary's remain two distinct institu­tions, the students of each will be free to pursue their education together on either campus, with continued co­operation in social, cultural and spiritual areas as well. The advisability of merging certain academic depart­ments and major programs will be studied further by the faculty and ad­ministrative personnel involved. 
Notre Dame announces that it will initiate internal coeducation with the direct admission of women as fresh­men and upper-division transfers in the fall of 1972. Notre Dame is like­wise amenable to the granting of its degrees to qualified Saint Mary's stu­dents, a matter for further discussion with Saint Mary's officials. 
Saint Mary's announces that it will study its goals and objectives for the future, concentrating on its liberal-arts orientation, expanded to include health-related fields and other innova­tive programs significant to contem­porary society. New directions will be determined at a special meeting of the Saint Mary's Trustees. 
The two institutions still recognize unification as a jgoal to be desired and hopefully to be achieved in the future. —^EDMUND A. STEPHAN AND MOTHER 
M. OLIVETTE WHALEN, CSC. 





MMiP a If 
^fii^'i:^ 
Notre Dame strives to recruit more minority students. 
by Jim Fanto '73 and Jim Palenchar '72 
m
^m 
mmm 
B*;*-?; 
yt. 
S&* 
•"g!! 

"In no small way, the University is responsible to a context much larger than the boundaries of Notre Dame, Indiana." Since 1968, Notre Dame has been actively seeking the enroll­ment of minority ethnic groups at the University. This enrollment has stead­ily increased to the point where almost four per cent of the 6,300 under­graduates are either black, Chicano or American Indian. 
Numbers are, however, for the most 
part abstractions of our desires (or 
fears). Numbers are deceiving. Al­
though a degree of success can be in­
terpreted through these numbers, ad­
missions counselors and student rep­
resentatives sense room for improve­
ment. 
The University and. in particular, the Office of Admissions, is guided by two obligations in the area of minority recruitment. In regard to the minority students themselves, the University is impelled by a social obligation — a response to the times and the society in which it functions. These students are finally getting the educational op­portunities that everj'one deserves. In no small way, the University is re­sponsible to a context much larger than the boundaries of Notre Dame, Ind. 
The second obligation follows from the first. The society within the bound­aries must also reflect the relevance of the community to its times and society. This obligation encompasses the University's relation to all its stu­dents. As expressed in the Admissions Office Report on Minority Enrollment, dated September, 1970, the University is attempting to enrich "the diversity of the student body." According to Daniel Saracino, assistant director of admissions, the University is obliged to educate each and every student in a "total way," providing them with an environment that demonstrates the multifarious nature of the world. The effect on the student body is apparent; all social and ethnic backgrounds have a chance to experience all the others. 
Students themselves are deeply in­volved in fulfilling the obligations of the community. Notre Dame has two very active student recruitment orga­nizations: For blacks, the Recruitment Aid Program (RAP), and for Chi­canos, MECHA, a national organiza­tion of Mexican-American students. Their views on recruitment reflect the cold necessity of the University's obli­gations. Armando Alonzo, head of Notre Dame's MECHA, sees the edu­cation of Chicano students as a neces­sity for the economic survival of the Chicano communities throughout America. The barrios or Chicano neighborhoods are on the fringe of self-development. For a people, who, in economic terms, are .second only to the American Indians in poverty, the need for educated and trained people is the simple reason for recruitment. According to Carl Ellison, head of RAP, an ethnically diverse community is needed, yet black recruitment is aimed primarily toward the education of a class of blacks that may never fit into the white world. Education is a call for solidarity among all blacks. 
"I don't like the word, recruitment, because it connotes some sort of athletic huckstering or talking one into going to Notre Dame. I go out on the road and share my experiences here with the students." One cannot say that the search for minority students, by the Admissions Office or by the stu­dent groups, has been lax. The Ad­missions Office itself has established a number of contacts with testing agencies which learn of academically qualified blacks, Chicanos, or Indians through their extensive research activi­ties. Also, both the Admissions Office and MECHA send out letters to high school counselors asking for the names of promising minority students. Con­tacts with these men, as well as junior college counselors and administrators, are invaluable, enabling the University to have firsthand, personal informa­tion on prospective students. 
Yet often, information on minority high school students comes not from the established channels or testing facilities, but from members of the University community. Minority stu­dents attending the University fre­quently suggest names of prospective students whom they know personally from their own home communities. Individual faculty members, such as 
Dr. Julian Samora of the Sociology 
department, or faculty groups inter­
ested in particular minorities seek out 
applicants. Administrators, other than 
Admissions Office personnel, also 
suggest students that the University 
should be interested in. 

Alumni, through local ND club schools committees or through indi­vidual efforts, have also been instru­mental in channeling information on minority students to the University, according to Saracino. "Our gradu­ates have been of great service in this area," he states. "And in many in­stances, they have provided financial assistance to these students." 
A case in point is the ND Club of Mississippi in Jackson. Recently a club member designed a ND Alumni Association decal. It is now being produced and sold through the Missis­sippi Club and other ND clubs. Pro­ceeds will go to a scholarship fund for students from low-income families who want to attend Notre Dame. 
The foremost form of seeking mi­nority students is by "bringing Notre Dame to them" through visits to inner-city, barrio, or reservation schools by RAP, MECHA, and the Admissions Office. These trips, funded by the Uni­versity, give high school students a chance to speak with either a Chicano or black student and Saracino. The bulk of the traveling is done by an admissions counselor, because of limited time of students, trips are usually restricted to a 100-mile radius of the campus. 
"I don't like the word, 'recruit­ment,' " says Saracino, "because it connotes some sort of athletic huck­stering or talking one into going to Notre Dame. I go out on the road and share my experiences here with the kids." Besides the special effort to learn of academically qualified minor­ity students and the waiver of ap­plication fees for needy individuals, there is ultimately no difference in the Admissions Office "recruitment" for minority students than for white stu­dents. The prospective students are invited to visit the campus, they are made aware of application procedures, details of financial aid, and programs which might be most suitable to their ethnic background (e.g., Urban Studies). 
For Armando Alonzo, the MECHA group offers prospective Chicano stu­dents an understanding of the Chicano community and its language. At present there is no Spanish-speaking counselor in the Admissions Office or in the Freshman Year Office. In the 
past, however, a Chicano student has worked as a student assistant in the offices and on recruitment trips. The MECHA members, who themselves come from the barrios, realize that they must speak to a very poor, under­educated community. They realize, too, the significance of Notre Dame to the Chicanos, who are 90 per cent Catholic and look with reverence on a school which offers a high-quality education and, in their thought, a Christian community. Armando and his group are able to speak to the students and their families in their own language and perhaps give to them a view of Notre Dame that could never be communicated by an English-speaking recruiter. 
According to Carl Ellison, the mem­bers of RAP can communicate the situation for blacks far better than any white recruiter. "A white man's experiences may be interesting, but they tell the black very little in terms of the minority student's life at Notre Dame." Ellison tells them honestly that the school is changing yet by the same token he describes the Univer­sity's problem in relating to its black students. RAP, he says, does not speak of Notre Dame's academic excellence, for most black students have only a vague notion of higher education. "You can't go to the comer," says Carl, "and start running down Des­cartes or Plato to a brother and expect him to respond." 
"For the blacks, Ciiicanos, Indians, and Anglos things are looked at in the same way essentially, but . . . every­thing is looked at, everything is put in its proper perspective." Once the applications are submitted, however, the decision of accepting students lies in the hands of admissions personnel. It is here that the fear of Notre Dame's alumni can become manifest —that the University is selecting stu­dents, who may not be up to past standards, only because of their ethnic background. Some alumni may see the recruitment as being prejudicial against white applicants. 
The admissions policy with regard to minority applicants is similar to its recruitment policy. While there is a flexible attitude towards blacks, Chi­canos, and Indians, the criterion for final judgment is the same one used for all students. "For the blacks, Chi­canos, Indians, and Anglos things are looked at in the same way essentially," states Saracino. "But. . . everything is looked at, everything is put in its proper perspective." For the minority student, proper perspective might in­clude the placing of more particular importance on his classroom perform­ance than on standardized tests. 
The prospective minority student must have the basic academic qualifi­cations to show that he can perform well at Notre Dame, for no official remedial or "catch-up" program exists at Notre Dame. TTiere is an English course reserved for international stu­dents in their freshman year, but its application to American minority stu­dents is negligible. More importantly, the Admissions Office looks at the stu­dent's "motivational potential"—his competitive desire which would make up for any deficiencies in formal edu­cation. "These students have a lot going against them in high school," says Saracino, "so they must have strong attitudes and characters," Judg­ing from the admissions memo on this year's freshman class, Notre Dame has succeeded in attracting the kinds of students who can realize their academic potential. The academic and extracurricular records, except for the SAT, for minority freshmen are better than the entire freshman class. 
Statistics for the 77 minority stu­dents entering as freshmen show that 14 per cent graduated either first or second in their high school classes. And 53 per cent ranked in the top 10 per cent of their classes. A little more than 48 per cent of all entering freshmen graduated in the top 10 per cent. 
And yet the University's admission standards for minority students or in particular, their trumpeting of these standards and the high-quality stu­dents they bring, seem to be addressed only to those that worry about the prestige of Notre Dame. The Univer­sity states that the minority students who do enroll here possess high aca­demic and motivational qualities, and they are correct. But, as Carl Ellison points out, the Admissions Office is primarily concerned with students who have adjusted to white educational and social standards, who demonstrate ac­ademic excellence and high "motiva­tion." Ellison fears that the University is enrolling what he terms the "black bourgeois," avoiding the "brothers on the street" who have not and will not adjust to the motivational standards of a white society. 
". . . when the funds run out there is nothing more we can do." Despite the debates over recruitment and se­lection methods, Notre Dame's mi­nority recruitment is, in the end. 

conceived in terms of numbers—the amount of financial aid. The monetary figures of financial aid make the philo­sophical considerations significant only on paper. Financial aid is the basic and limiting element of recruitment. For the 1971-72 academic year, MECHA got 100 Chicanos to apply, 67 of those were accepted, 19 of these were offered financial aid, and just these 19 are now freshmen. The Uni­versity sees its recruitment as a "re­moval of the greatest wall which sep­arates minority students from Notre Dame," and that wall is money. Most of the minority applicants are poor, and, in Alonzo's words, "What is the use of being accepted when you can't even provide one-third of University expenses?" 
Financial aid for minority students is broken into three categories, the last of which is not available to white students. Much financial aid comes directly from the government in the form of EOG grants. National De­fense Loans, and Work-Study Pro­grams, Scholarship money from the University, ROTC, state or private associations accounts for the second large percentage. Last, special Uni­versity grants funded by the Cotton Bowl games and private contributions are used specifically for black, Chi­cano, or Indian students. All but a few minority students receive one of these types of aid, or a "package" of all three. 
"Notre Dame's commitment is a commitment of funds," says Saracino, "and when the funds run out there is nothing more we can do." If the Uni­versity is ultimately concerned with minority recruitment and its social and educational obligations are reduced to the availability of funds, then its mi­nority recruitment program is on shaky ground. The special University grants are the concrete evidence of its commitments, but the source of these grants is unstable. Presently, the Cot­ton Bowl money is the predominant source of the University minority grants, but this source is a fixed amount—it will run out. Is, then, the availability of funds for minority stu­dents dependent upon football ratings and postseason bowls? Since the quota for enrollment is based solely on fund availability, an endowed fund would be more stable. 
Without adequate funds RAP and MECHA cannot do what is necessary to bring students that widen the cul­tural scope of Notre Dame. Without adequate funds these students can never become part of Notre Dame. 
The people who have, in the past, sup­ported the traditional concept of the Notre Dame student body are to be looked towards for a response. Alumni and friends of the University have the potential to invest in the cultural future of the University; the response to the SUMMA campaign demonstrat­ed this. Thus, we of Notre Dame con­tinue working towards a total com­munity at the University and among the ones who leave it, as well as to­wards a full and human education expressed by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, CSC, President of the University: "Our education should nurture in them this hunger for equality, this respect for the human dignity of every human being, whatever his or her race or color." 


imm\^mmf^rmm(i\mrmmmri\^mmmmmmmmmmmmmmm^^^^ 
Neoprene, the first useful synthetic rubber, has come a long way since Rev. Julius Arthur Nieuwland CSC wore a raincoat made of his brain­child that in his words "smelled like heck." 
Since the product was developed by Fr. Nieuwland and E. I. DuPont Co. scientists 40 years ago this month, more than seven billion pounds has been manufactured. That's enough for a rubber band around the entire orbit of the earth about the sun. 
As durable as natural rubber, neo­prene is also resilient, good-weather­ing, flame resistant and resistant to ozone, oil, air and many chemicals, according to DuPont. It is used as an architectural glaze, a jacketing for cables, an expansion joint for bridges, safety cushions, lab stoppers and, of course, tires. Some newspapers cred­ited neoprene with helping the U.S. weather Japan's capture of Asian rubber plantations during World War II. 
This first of many synthetic rubbers was developed through the interaction between a curious, absent-minded sci­entist carefully investigating the re­actions of acetylene, and industrial chemists quick to see the practical possibilities of his research. As a graduate student at Catholic Univer­sity of America, Nieuwland noticed the strange odor of an elusive gas when acetylene was passed through a solution of copper and salts. Ex­perimenting with different salts over the next 14 years at Notre Dame, he finally isolated an oil which appeared in addition to the gas. When treated with vulcanizing agents this oil 




SOLDIER 
OF SCIENCE 
By Jean Horiszny 
It's been 40 years since Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland CSC pi­oneered the development of syn­thetic rubber. But there was nothing artificial about Nieuw­land the man. 
formed a rubbery substance too plas­tic for practical use. 
Chemists at the DuPont Company heard of Nieuwland's success with the oil in 1925, and joined him in his search for the mysterious gas—^finally identified as monovinyl acetylene. The same group actually developed "syn­thetic rubber" from Nieuwland's basic discovery by reacting the gas with common hydrochloric acid. 
When Father Nieuwland and the DuPont chemists announced the new product at the ACS meeting in Akron,' the mild chemist who wanted neither fame nor fortune suddenly received both. Fortune was easily disposed of 
— Notre Dame received all royalties from the discovery. Fame was more tricky. 
Scores of journalists descended on the campus following the armounce­ment. One reporter for Columbia magazine suggested that the newsmen were expecting to find a "great man," surrounded by the trappings and as­sistants common to such. But instead, "They met a very plain, a very quiet, and a little bit tired middle-aged man," he said. "To see him walking about the campus one would scarcely take him for a distinguished scientist. His cassock is stained with chemicals. He smokes a short, black pipe and, if he happened to have been working most of the night in his laboratory, a stub­ble of beard will adorn his cheek." 
If the journalists were surprised at the unpretentious life Father Nieuw­land lived, some scientists were ap­palled. An eastern researcher charged that "gross "neglect of the God-given genius of Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C, has wasted a ma­jor portion of his talents." He cited inadequate laboratory facilities and the lack of trained assistants to sup­port his claim. 
However, Father Nieuwland be­lieved that it wasn't the equipment, but what you did with it, that count­ed. And as for assistants — many have since entered original research fields of their own in chemistry, bi­ology and the germfree life program that eventually became Lobund Lab­oratory at Notre Dame. Perhaps his most famous assistant never took up research, but Father Nieuwland main­tained that Knute Rockne could have been a fine chemist if he had not gone into other work. 
While the general public came to admire the priest-scientist for his ex­periments ending in neoprene, his col­leagues conferred the highest medals of the scientific community on him for a lifetime's work in both chemistry and botany. The Nichols Medal of the American Chemical Society hon­ored him as a "soldier of science" for braving considerable danger to dis­cover basic scientific truths. Many products of acetylene reactions are Wghly unstable and explode without warning, while others are extremely toxic. Father Nieuwland once spent several days in the hospital after in­advertently discovering the poisonous gas later developed into "Lewisite" intended for use in World War I. 
He received two other important medals for his chemical research, and finally won the Mendel Medal from Villanova College in 1936 in recogni­tion of his contributions to botany. Actually, Father Nieuwland began his teaching career at Notre Dame in 1904 as a professor of botany, and founded the respected journal The American Midland Naturalist, before moving to the chemistry department. He collected thousands of plant speci­mens for the Nieuwland Herbarium, now a major collection in the depart­ment of biology, and was instrumen­tal in bringing the country's leading botanist, Edward Lee Greene, to No­tre Dame. For the first few years at Notre Dame, Nieuwland supported his "hobby" of chemistry by prepar­ing and selling botanical slides. 
When chemistry became his "work," botany took over as his recreation, A campus magazine received an un­expected treatise on botany when they asked him to write an article about his hobbies. He relished sum­mer "botanizing" trips along the In­diana dunes and the New Jersey swamps, and kept a sharp eye out for plants during his travels. One ex-graduate -student tells of driving the famous scientist to a chemistry meeting at over 70 miles an hour, only to be forced to stop so Father Nieuwland could examine some plants along the road. 
Father Nieuwland died suddenly in 1936, while visiting his old labora­tories at the Catholic University of America. The hundreds of speeches and articles that marked his death described him not only as an out­standing botanist and chemist, but as an endearing human being and a 
'conscientious priest. A native of Hansbeke, Belgium, Father Nieuwland spent most of his Saturdays hearing confessions in Flemish at the Belgian churches in South Bend and Mishawaka. The chairman of his chemistry department remembered him as a man who loved to tell "illustrated" stories to the chil­
dren of friends, sketching the action as he unraveled the plot. He loved circuses, and was always accompanied by several children when he jour­neyed to see the elephants and high-wire acts. 
He played the guitar well, spoke eight languages, studied subjects from Egyptology to "The Lives of the Saints," and devoured detective sto­ries in great numbers. He could re­member the details of every scientific experiment he ever performed, but often forgot what time his train was leaving. He knew both the Latin and common names of the trees and plants all along the dunes, but had to be re­minded to change his stained cassock and fraying sweater for an important meeting. His contribution to syn­thetic rubber ushered in a new age of chemical technology, but he per­sistently refused to use the telephone, describing it as "an invention of the devil." 

At Notre Dame, the priest-chem­ist's name lives in the Nieuwland Science Hall, the Nieuwland Lecture Series in Chemistry and the Nieuw­land Herbarium in biology. Funds from the patents on neoprene helped the chemistry department develop one of the best chemical libraries in the country. Many scholars in that de­partment credit the groundwork laid by Father Nieuwland with establish­ing Notre Dame's chemistry depart­ment as the only doctoral program at a Catholic university to win a recent "strong," or highest, rating in the American Council on Education's ranking of the nation's graduate pro­grams. 
by Robert A. Erkins, President, 
ND Alumni Board 
The Alumni Board of Notre Dame 
convened for its two-day fall meeting 
Oct. 21, with both executive com­
mittee and nominating committee 
sessions. The nominating committee 
selected an excellent slate of candi­
dates to be presented for the election 
this fall. Not only is the caliber of 
each candidate extremely high, but 
those nominated have been so selected 
that they will give the full Alumni 
Board an excellent class year and pro­
fessional balance, as well as fine rep­
resentation of the various colleges at 
the University. Please cast your ballots 
by December 30. 
The board heard a discussion on 
admissions by John Goldrick, director 
of admissions, and his staff. Board 
members discussed with the admis­
sions personnel the problems and 
policies of selecting students to attend 
ND and SMC. The admissions offices 
of both schools are unified. 
Also the board reviewed with Frank 
G. Kelly, ND Development Director, and his staff, the Pilot City Program launched in a revitalized alumni fund campaign. While the University is honoring its pledge not to engage in any special capital funds solicitations in the near future, the University does rely upon gifts from friends and alumni to underwrite at least 11 % of the operating budget requirements for each year. It is necessary that the ND Annual Fund generate around $6.5 million per year, with at least $3 million of that amount in alumni sup­port. The Pilot City Program is being conducted to find the best methods of gaining financial support from those alumni who have not recently con­tributed to ND. This test is being run in Boston, Detroit, Chicago, Dallas, Memphis, Peoria, San Francisco, Los Angeles, and St. Louis. It is being very well received, and the returns are good. One letter, that was sent to me in October, summed up the need very well. It said in part, "After working while studying as an undergraduate and as a professional student, after receiving multiple education loans, after spending three years in the Far East and seeing poverty on a first­hand basis, I agree that supporting our colleges and universities is a worthwhile imdertaking." Notre Dame is no different than any other privately supported school. The finan­cial need is great and your contribu­
tion, either big or small, is a much 
needed source of revenue. 
The Friday afternoon meetings were combined meetings with the St. Mary's Alumnae Board. We discussed the effects of unification on the alumni associations. Your ND Board ap­pointed Joe O'Neil of St. Paul as Chairman, Joe Bertrand of Chicago, Paul Doyle of Houston, and Bill Mc­Gowan Jr. of Indianapolis to a joint committee to work with the St. Mary's Alumnae Board members on the pos­sibilities and problems of unification. Friday evening, the St. Mary's College Alumnae Board hosted the Notre Dame Alumni Board, with their re­spective husbands and wives at a dinner at St. Mary's. 
At the Saturday morning session, the Alumni Board discussed the idea of combining Insight: Notre Dame and the Notre Dame ALUMNUS into one magazine. This we hope to ac­complish with the first issue appearing in February 1972. (see p. 51) 
The next Alumni Board meeting will be January 27-29, 1972. At this time we will discuss matters that you feel are important to the University and to the alumni. Please write me your views on any matters that you want us to discuss. 

NEW Aliiii PrtsHnt 
Dr. John C. Lungren '38, a physician from San Diego, Calif., has been elected 60th president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. He was 
chosen by members of the ND 
Alumni Board at its meeting on Cam­
pus in late October. 
The new president, a member of 
the Alumni Board since 1970, will 
begin his one-year term Jan. 1. He 
succeeds Robert A. Erkins '47. 
Dr. Lungren is chief of staff at Memorial Hospital, Long Beach. With specialties in cardiology and internal medicine, he is a consulting physician to U.S. President Richard M. Nixon. 
The doctor and his wife, Lorain, have seven children. Two are Notre Dame graduates — John Jr. '66 and Dan '68. A daughter, Christine, is a 1970 graduate of St. Mary's College. 
A native of Sioux City, la.. Dr. Lungren has lived in California since his graduation from the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine in 1942. After completing his intern­ship at the Los Angeles County Gen­eral Hospital, he served in Europe during World War U as a battalion surgeon in the U.S. infantry. After the war he returned to California to begin a private medical practice. Sev­eral years later this practice was in­terrupted when he returned to school as a postgraduate fellow of the Na­tional Heart Institute at the U. of Southern California School of Medi­cine. 
Dr. Lungren is a diplomate of the American Board of Internal Medicine, a fellow of both the American Col­lege of Physicians and the American College of Cardiology and since 1955 has taught on the staff of the UCLA School of Medicine. 
ORDER YOUR OFFICIAL NOTRE DAME ALUMNI DECAL 
NAME 
ADDRESS 

CITY STATE TT 
Enclosed is $ for decal(s). 
Enclose $1.00 for each decal and mall to: 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MISSISSIPPI 733 North State Street Jackson, Mississippi 39201 
As noted in the January-February issue of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS, this is the official alumni decal as approved by the alumni board. It is available exclusively from either the Missis­sippi Club or your local organization. Buy several and help an underprivileged Mississippian obtain a quality education at Notre Dame. 



CliKllmis 
For the last 10 years, the Notre Dame 

Class 

class agents have been more or less 
secret (or silent) agents. That's be­cause the University has been carrying on its great fund programs—Chal­lenge I, Challenge II and SUMMA. Now the decade of capital gift campaigns is drawing to a conclusion. And the emphasis is shifting back to the Notre Dame Annual Fund. 
Part of those alumni who have helped make the Fund a success in the past have been the class agents. We thought you'd like to know what they look like—as you remember them. So we got out.the old yearbooks and copied graduation pictures. For those of you who graduated during WWII, we're sorry but no Dome was published then. 
Do you remember your class agent? Check your class column. 
50-YEAR CLUB 

Why not send a birthday greeting card on: Nov. 3 to JOHN F. BOYLE '15, Box 67, Coalgate, Okla. 74538; Nov. 4, CLARENCE 
J. DERRIK '14, 2021 Kenilworth Ave., Los Angeles, Calif. 90039; JAMES P. LOGAN '18, 2951 S. Fillmore Way, Denver, Colo. 80210; Nov. 8, PAUL J. FOGARTY '17, 400 Seasage Dr., Delray Beach, Fla. 33444; Nov. 9, THEODORE C. RADEMAKER '19, 154 W. 6th St., Peru, lnd..46970; Nov. 10, CHARLES E. LENTZ '19, 1021 NUes Ave., South Bend, Ind. 46617; Nov. 11, PETER 
J. MCDONOUGH '21, in N. Pompano 
Beach Blvd., Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062; Nov. 12, GEORGE B. REINHARDT '19, 301 W. 51 St., Kansas City, Mo.; Nov. 
13, WILLIAM E. KENNEDY, 1700 S. Ashland Ave., Park Ridge, 111. 60068; Nov. 
14, RAY C. WHIPPLE LLB. '18, 373 Western Ave., JoUet, III. 60435; Nov. 16, JOSEPH F. FLYNN '17, 401 N. Riverside Dr., Apt. 207, Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062; Nov. 22, FRANCIS A. ANDREWS '18L, 424 Missouri St., Fairfield, Calif. 94533; Nov. 23, WILLIAM J. ANDRES '18, 410 Dorchester Rd., Rochester, N.Y. 14610; Dec. 1, CHARLES W. BACHMAN '17L, 11 Sunset Lane, Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062; Dec. 2, THOMAS H. O'CONNOR '16, 428 Magee Ave., Rochester, N.Y. 14613; Dec. 7, ROBERT E HUBER '19, 405 W. SL, Dowagiac, Mich. 49047; Dec. 9, Dr. L. VINCENT GORRILLA '21, 3262 Falkland Circle, Huntington Beach, Calif. 92649; Dec. 10, JAMES L. SWEENY '18, 1254 Milwaukee, Denver, Colo. 80206, and Dec. 
12, Col. JOSEPH J. HEALY '15, 2845 Santa Paula Ct, Sacramento, Calif. 95821. 
Great to hear from STEPHEN H. HERR '14: "My wife and I have been spending our winters in Fla. Hope to go there this winter for three or four months. If all goes well hope to see you all in "72." Gotta thank Class Secretary ALBERT A. KUHLE '15 for his kind note and acknowledge here what a fine column he has in the ALUMNUS. 
'17. Pleased to report that Danny states he is feeling OK. Sounded to me in good spirits. (Editor's Note: BERNARD VOLL '17 reported that Dan has resigned as '17 secretary due to health.) 
CARLETON D. BEH '17 is aU set, in same box for this season's football games. Starting off with Northwestern game. Heard from 50-Year Club freshman, ALFRED R. ABRUMS '21, Hon. NORMAN C. BARRY '21L, Class Secretary RAYMOND J. (Schub) SCHUBMEHL '21. All appreciated pictures taken at reunion. Now that "guy" LEO J. VOGEL '17 sent a letter that he'd understand when I say "Thanks." Vogel reported that he talked with JAMES L. SWEENY '18 and that Jim was not feeling any too good. Trust he is much better now. Leo said if we had more fellows like Jim on this good earth we would not need a heaven. Recall my visit West a couple years ago. I stopped at Denver and phoned Jim, whom I had not talked to or seen for years. I was commanded to stay right where I was and he'd pick me up for a drive around 
Up "pops" GROVER F. MILLER, aass Secretary '16, with a nice note about how he is enjoying the North Woods. Phoned Class Secretary DANIEL E. HILGARTNER town. I had to promise to wait and have 
coffee with him in the morning and he 
would lead me out of town and get me 
headed in right direction for home. That's 
the kinda guy Jim is. 
Hope Mrs. "Ted" Feyder has infor­
mation she requested about the names of 
the fellows on picture taken of her late 
husband, THEODORE N. FEYDER '14L. 
LEO S. ZGODZINSKI "14 could not help, 
but HENRY J. FRAWLEY '14L came 
across with a most interesting letter and 
named the guys in the picture. Back row— 
TIMOTHY E. SOWNEY '14L, BILL J. 
CUSACK '141^ and ARTHUR W. RYAN 
'14, (deceased). Front row—Ted Feyder 
and himself (Henry Frawley). The "huddle" 
football leak for this year, Henry, is that 
ND is No. 1 in '72. Again Frawley, thanks 
for your interesting letter. That's all the 
chitchat this time. Closing wish is that you 
all live to 100 and enjoy the best of health. 
Geogre B. Waage '18 
3305 Wrightwood Ave. 
Chicago, lU. 60647 
'11 THE COLONEL 15%' 
'12 RICHARD J. MONROE 9.5%* 
'13 FRED 20.6%* 
'14 BELL 19.4%* 
WlUiam J. Redden 
'15 OVER THERE 31.2%* 
It is always a pleasant surprise to hear from an old friend, especially when that friend is so far away. I just had such a surprise in 
the form of a postcard from J. STOCK­DALE KOBB '14, whose address is 69 Heidelberg, Nouenheimer Land Strasse 52, Germany. The card had a picture of the Wallfahrtskirche in St. Margen (Schwarz­wald). He said St. Margen is one of the most scenic spots in all Germany. Warm regards to you J.S.K. Thanks for being remembered. Next time you might tell us what keeps you over there so long. 
Albert A. Kuhle 

Following the June reunion GEORGE B. 
WAAGE '18 told me that I was missed on 
that occasion. I had made plans with two 
alumni for transportation but in the final 
stages both petered out. I hope to have 
better luck next June. Just had a thank-you 
note from an old friend who recently 
celebrated his 82nd birthday. Anyone 
attaining that age should consider it an 
accomplishment instead of a misfortune. 
Congratulations are indeed due to 
STEPHEN H. HERR '10 who is still active 
as chairman of the board of the Citizens 
Bank of Chatsworth, 111., where he resides. 
He and Mrs. Herr both enjoy good health 
and spend their winter months in Braden-
ton, Fla. May the Good Lord keep you in 
His care, grant you good health, a long 
and happy future. 
A cheerful note was recently received from RAY HOYER '24, a good friend and former associate who was on the teaching staff at ND from 1924 to 1940. Ray resides at St Anne Retirement Home, 1900 Van­dalia. Fort Wayne, Ind. 46805. Ray reported that he had recently had his second cataract operation. You have my best wishes Ray. See a writeup on Ray in the April-May issue. 
JOHN D. MOYNAHAN JR., formerly of LaGrange, 111. has been named vice-president of Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.'s New York Metropolitan group office. He earned his B.A. degree cum laude at ND. He began his career with Metropolitan in 1957 in Chicago as a service supervisor and later held the same position in Detroit. He was transferred to New York as senior account representative and became account executive in 1970. Moynahan and his wife have three daughters and a son and reside at 25 Little Brook Rd., Darien, Conn. Would that space would permit recounting here some of the folklore of the "Roaring 20's" in Lakeland, Fla. sent to me by WILLIAM V. HALLMAN who resides at 1113 S. Success Ave., Lakeland, Fla. 33803. He and Mrs. Hallman have one daughter and three grandchildren, two girls and a boy. Needless to say, he is very proud of them. 
BiU says WILLIAM and TOMMY CAREY '29 dropped by. William has pur­chased a home at 40O4 Wellington Dr., RED, Lafcewood, Fla. 33802. Tommy still lives in Santa Barbara, Calif. Both are fine men and are nephews of the late W. F. Carey, president of Madison Square Garden. He also reports seeing CHARLES W. BACHMAN LL.B. '17 who is retired and lives at 11 Sunset Lane, Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062. 
My daughter, Mrs. J. D. Flynn of La-Grange, 111., and her family made a trip East this summer sightseeing and visiting friends and relatives. Among the folks visited was the TOM HESSERT '48 famfly at 603 Chews Landing Rd., Haddonfield, NJ. 
I regret to report the recent death of the 
father of CLAUDE W. TOUREK '35 who 
is president and owner of Hi Quality Mfg. 
Co., Screw Machine Products, and resides 
at 624 N. Edgewood Ave., LaGrange Park, 
III. 60525. 

WALES E. FINNEGAN "10 retired 
manager of the Veterans Administration in 
Martinsburgb, W. Va., died Aug. S at the 
Washington Sanitarium and Hospital after 
a long illness. He lived at 10616 Mantz Kd., 
Silver Spring, Md. He is survived by his 
widow, Katherine, and a sister, Mrs. 
Katherine Waterhouse of Saranac Lake, 
N.Y. I am indebted to JAMES F. O'BRIEN '13 for this information. Jim added, "Have been well, thankful and quite happy with Arizona, 790 more Mid-Western winters." 
The death of JOHN W. SCHINDLER SR. '09L was reported in my column in the September issue. This additional infor­mation has recently come to hand. "John 
W. Schindler Sr., 86, of 810 Lincoln Way, E., Mishawaka, Ind. 46544, a well-known attorney, died in St Joseph's Hospital following an illness of one week. A 1909 graduate of the ND Law School, Schindler had conducted a law practice here since that time. He was former president of the St. Joseph County Bar Assn. and a member of the Indiana State and American Bar Assns. He was a member of the Father Nieuw­land General Assembly, Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus and Council 1878 Knights of Columbus." He is survived by his widow; one son, JOHN W. JR. '43 of Mishawaka; three daughters; 12 grand­children and six great-grandchildren. 
Albert A. Kuhle 
117 Sunset Ave. 
LaGrange, HI. 60525 
'16 NO NEWS 193%' 
Can't seem to get news from my Qass of 
'16—so here are some notes from my 
picture album of 1912-13-14-16. 
The football team goes East and beats Yale. They arrive home by train, of course, and the whole school meets them and parades through South Bend, taking over a few streetcars for the trip out to ND. 
The old post office, about 20 feet square, and the budding opposite it about the same size, where the watchman slept, both stood at the end of the Hill Street car line. 
Faithful nuns washed our clothes and cooked our meals and baked those famous ND buns. The buns we didn't eat were used 
^ C. Patrick 

in pitched battles of hall against hall after breakfast 
The football team all played a full game. GUS DORAIS, the quarterback, never wore a headgear and never was tackled down. Thei» were KNUTE ROCKNE, HEINE BERGER. EICHENLAUB, DEAK JONES, CROWLEY, AL FEENEY, JOE PLISKA, HARVAT. FITZGERALD, FINNEGAN, GUSHBARST and 20 others. 
The Natatorium back of the Main Build­ing was about gone. The Minims were the "preps" from four years of age till college. Brother Floren was the boss and a sister did most of the teaching. Their St Edward's Hall was next to the Main Building. 
College fellows ate in two sections on the 
ground floor of the Main Building, eight to 
a table. At the head of the table were 
juniors and seniors and were served first 
Walsh Hall was new and one of the finest 
in the whole country as the fathers had 
visited the East and the West for ideas. 

The old Novitiate across the lake burned 
one night about 6 p.m. so all of us ran over 
and saved pictures and statues to become 
heroes. 

I can produce pictures of all these memories and hundreds more since I was the school photographer in those good old days. 
Classmates, send me some news. 
Grover F. Miller 
1208 S. Main SL Racine, Wis. 53403 

'17 JOHN E. CASSIDY JR. 31.2%* 

'18 ABOUT FOOTBALL 26.8%* 
Let's start this report with acknowledging a very interesting letter from JOSEPH T. RILEY '18. If you know Riley you know it's all about football. That guy takes in all the games he can get tickets for. Muskegon 
; '?*». =»v~ 
John A. ^ Lemmcr 

is not far from ND. He sends copies of his letters to PETER J. RONCHETTI '18 and FRANK X. (Big Frank) RYDZEWSKI '18, A nice note came with a calendar from ARTHUR J. (Young Dutch) BERG­MAN '17. Chicago radio station WBBM gives Dutch credit for putting over a deal for the Washington baseball team. WILLIAM A. GRADY '17 is always "on the ball" with a card and it's mighty nice of Bill. Got a note from JOHN A. LEM­MER '18: "Had hoped to make the USC game, but lost out on tickets." The card from NEIL J. (Whitey) WHALEN '18 comes from the Gold Coast of Maine. Whitey and Rosemary sure enjoy their trips. Great to know they are enjoying good health. Regret to report that Mrs. MAX KAZUS is still in the hospital and, accord­ing to Max, not doing too well. Only wish I had more to report about cards coming in. Why don't you drop a hello card and let us all know that you are still around? 
LAMBERT Q. SENG '18 and I often phone each other. We talk about fellows like JOHN J. VOELKERS '18 that we don't hear from. Seng is one swell guy and I like him. After I get through the ordeal I'm now in, Bert and I will perhaps drop in on you. We often talk about driving down to see Ex. Lt. Gov. SHERWOOD DIXON '20L. Have not seen WILLIAM E. BRAD­BURY '16 since he got out of Vets hospital. REV. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS '18 missed out seeing Bill. Let's have a card from you. 
Sincere best wishes to you all. 
George B. Waage 3305 Wrightwood Ave. Chicago, lU. 60647 


'19 LOLIS J. FINSKE 11.7%* 
'20 WE'RE RECOGNIZED 14%* 
We now are recognized by the Alumni Association as members of the 50-year Club and are invited to stay at the Morris Inn during all class reunions. 

The following attended in June: LEONARD CALL with his wife; PAUL CONAGHAN; HUMPHREY LESLIE with 
JohnT. Balfe 
his wife; HARRY NESTER, and JIM 
TRUANT who brought his wife and me. 
We all promised to return next year and to 
urge others to join us. SHERWOOD 
DIXON while registered at the Morris 
Inn did not come and we missed him. 
WALTER MILLER always came to annual 
Monogram Club meetings before but was 
among the missing. 
JOHN BALFE, our president and leader, disappointed us by his absence. The atten­dance of the '21 Class was not as large as ours but among them JOE BRANDY and NORM BARRY were at the Morris Inn with us. 
James H. Ryan 24270 East Ave., Apt. 314 
Rochester, N.Y. 14610 


'21 HALE AND HARDY 35.4^ 
JOE MAAG reports that he is hale and hardy again and feels bad only because he was not able to make the 50th reunion. Remember the story about the ghost of Washington Hall? CHARLEY DAVIS claims to have the inside dope on the mystery. Perhaps we can prevail upon "Chuck" to tell us about this affair when we meet again in 1973. Dr. JOSEPH HEIN­MAN phones me that he would have made the '71 reunion except for a slight illness. By the way Joe has a grandniece who is applying for admission to ND-SMC for the fall of '72. 
JOE TILLMAN reports that he has 44 grandchildren. He claims this is a record. Would like to hear if there are any others 
Raymond J. Schubmchl 4 
who can.b"ea't;or.'even approach this number. HARRY andEUa McLELLAN who missed'the" reunion because they were moving into their new home are now all settled and ready to receive visitors. Their address is 10446 Meade Dr., Sun City, Ariz. 85351. If any of you have information that might be of interest to others of our class, please let me know about it This 

column can be done only if you furnish such information. Thank you! 
Ray Schubmehl 1622 McKinley South Bend, Ind. 46617 

'22 TRAFTON DIES 24.2%* 
As we try to make the deadline for the next issue of the ALUMNUS, today's Sports Columns carry the sad news of another classmate, GEORGE TRAFTON, who died at age 74 in a Los Angeles area convalescent hospital on Sunday Sept 5. Trafton was a great football player. His career got nicely under way during World War I, when George played the center position for Camp Grant at Rockford, 111. At that time, it was murmured around the campus that he would like to matriculate at ND, and so he did in the fall of 1919, when most of the military, who had been discharged from service with eyes on ND arrived on campus. At ND he played in conjunction with the famous "Slip" Madigan of later fame at Saint Mary's College in the San Francisco Bay area. Usually Slip would start the game, but Trafton would be called into service to relieve Madigan. George played only the year 1919 pt ND. In 1920, he signed up with the Decatur Staleys who later became the Chicago Bears. Trafton played until age 32, and he, indeed, was one of the AU-Time Great centers for the Chicago Bears, e.xcelling on defense. Subse­quently, he spent 13 years as assistant coach for the Green Bay Packers, the Cleveland Rams, and the Los Angeles Rams, also served as head coach for the Winnipeg Bombers in the Canadian league. He was later elected a member of the National Football League Hall of Fame. In the recent past, George was in the real-estate business in West Los Angeles area. We extend our loving sympathy to his wifs, 
Jacqueline, a son George E. Jr., and a daughter Bliss Ellen. Kindly remember George in your prayers. 
HEARTLEY (Hunk) ANDERSON of 917 North Flager Drive, West Palm Beach, Fla. 33401, who played football with George both at ND and the Bears, kindly assisted us in telling the Trafton story. Many thanks for the sympathy message concerning the death of JOE BRANDY '21 from our class­mates who thought highly of Joe. 
Best of wishes are extended to Mr. and Mrs. David Woodhead, who were married in Christ the King Church, South Bend, Ind. on June 26. Parents of the bride are Mr. and Mrs. Clarence (Pat) Manion of South Bend. 
Our grateful thanks are directed to A. 

F. (Tony) GONZALEZ '25 who writes us from 6781 Ayala Ave., Makati, Rizal^ Philippines: "Thank you for your hand­written note acknowledging the information I sent you on the death of my late brother, 
R. J. DUKE '22. He was not associated in business with me but it so happened that one of his business interests was the fran­chise from Armour Dial of Chicago for the manufacture and distribution of Dial soap. That part of the business was turned over by Armour to my son, J. A. '58. Mrs. Gonzalez and I plan to be on the campus for both the North Carolina and the USC games...Durihg-.tH'e interv'ening week,..we shall"berstqppirig-.at'Moms Inri-ra ,. 
.ydii'happen to be on the'campus between • Oct. 1'6'arid Oct 23, I shall be very happy to greet you. I just went to ND in the fall of 1920 as a "prep" and have a hazy recollection of having said hello to you on the campus a number of times." 
Many thanks to FOM LEE '23 of Minneapolis for his kindness in sending details of the Woodhead-Manion wedding, also, to LEONARD M. CALL '21 for his nice remarks about EDWARD JOSEPH 
'Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of Sept. 30, 1971. 
GOTTRY, deceased, and for the fine 
spiritual bouquet he so arranged. Leonard's 
address is 231 Paterson Ave., Hasbrouck 
Heights, N.J. 07604. 
Don't fail to attend our Golden Anni­
versary Reunion. This month the South 
Bend group will convene to prepare the way. 
G. A. (Kid) Ashe 175 Landing Road, N. Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
'23 PAPA WRITES 11.4%* 
They Remember Papa. . . . Class secretaries 
are always complaining that nobody writes. 
Well, somebody wrote from Mandaluyong, 
Rizal, in the Philippines. Following are 
excerpts: 
"Although Notre Dame has been so 
faithful in keeping in touch with Papa all 
these years, 1 don't believe Papa has had 
time to send word about himself and his 
activities. I was reminded to write you 
because a few days ago one of Papa's ND 
contemporaries JACOBO ZOBEL, one of 
the most prominent businessmen in this 
country, died at the age of 69. 
"Papa is MARIANO DONATO, a 1923 Electrical Engineering graduate. He is so sentimental about anything ND does that last month he showed me his well-preserved 1923 Commencement souvenir program. He keeps talking about his ND days and has sent me all his copies of Insight, ALUMNUS and other ND publications. I feel I know so much about ND because of Papa . . . ND has given Papa a lot. 1 am glad for that because he has given lis a lot." 
Us includes his wife. Carmen Rivero, nine children, 20 grandchildren. The children, spread geographically and all with college degrees, are: Filomena (San Jose, Calif.), Milagros, Salvador, Salud, Angclita, Socorro, Raoul (New York), Mary (New York) and Brother Rafael FSC, a Ful­bright Scholar and now president of a school of 3200 young boys. 
Brother Rafael wrote the letter. He did not mention Papa's other activities but they must be considerable because you don't put nine kids through college on trading stamps. There is obviously no generation gap be­tween Papa and Brother Rafael who con­cluded: "He would be tickled pink if you would mention him in your column. He is 71 years old. On his trip last year to the States Papa had plans to visit Indiana. But Mama and my sisters had other plans and he was outvoted (our version of women's lib). You can't win." 
So here's Papa. And a word to Mama: We are planning our 50th Reunion in 1973. We want to see Papa in Indiana and Mama too. So for that year women's lib gets lost. Right, Mama? And many thanks to Brother Rafael for the type of letter all class secretaries hope to receive. Perhaps other children might be inspired to write about other Papas who are too busy or too modest. For his classmates who want to remember Papa with a note, the address is: 2526 Arrellano, Manila, P. I. . . . All of this recalls a chance meeting at the Morris Inn a few years back with ANDRES MALA­TESTA '23 of Lima, Peru, where there obviously was no women's lib because Mama was with him. So come back in '73, Andres : . . and all you nice people. 
Let's Hear It for the Editors. . . . The people who put out the University publi­cations do an exceptional job. I doubt if any magazines are more completely read. The class secretaries, each in his own style, write about things and people they know and care about. Occasional opinions reflect the thinking of their age groups. They all add up to a panorama of ND through the years, and, for those interested, opportunity for dialogue and communication. And this we need. ND has always been family. 
ROCKNE once put it: Anytime those blue jerseys take the field we forget the little things. So we start with four quarterbacks this season . . . but there will always be only the one who happens to be wearing that blue jersey on the field. We can all learn from Papa Mariano Donato. 
The Readers Write. .. . I heard from six people that my picture was in Insight before I knew it was there. It was in a cemetery 
Joseph F. Donaldson 

which is no place for a senior alumnus to hang around, but 1 always include it in the 50-cent Grand Tour for distinguished visitors. Those old fellows who built the place, from Sorin to the humblest brother, lie so quietly beneath the little wooden crosses . . . but still speak so eloquently . . . 
Faith and good works. 
JOHN NIEMIEC, one of our oldest fellows, doesn't write but he sends news­papers every so often from Miami, Palm Beach and other health spas in Ponce De Leon land. FRANK. DORIOT weighs in cheerfully from St. Pete to Cape Cod and is planning to join the Boston Club tour for the Miami game this fall, with wife Helen and daughter Frances. HY HUNT, with "wife and brown dog" has been "antagoniz­ing fish instead of tax-payers" in Canada since he retired from the IRS. He hopes to be back for Southern Cal. If he makes it we hope to include him in the planning session for '73 along with the class brass, RED SHEA. ED KREIMER, JOENYIKOS and South Benders JOHN ROHRBACH, LEO REIDER, ART DIEDRICH. Ed Kreimer has his updated class roster about ready for distribution to all of us by the Alumni office. 
CHARLIE CONLEY and DOC NIGRO, working to get a KNUTE ROCKNE stamp, have enlisted SAM DEVINE, congressman from Columbus, O. NORDY HOFFMAN and our many other people with political muscle, please get in touch with Charlie who is secretary of '33. And this from Paul Tarsus who wrote to the Hebrews: 12-5, 7-11, 11-13: "What son is there whom his father does not discipline? At the time it is administered all discipline seems a cause for grief and not for joy, but later it brings forth the fruit of peace and justice." 
Francis Wallace 4615 Guernsey St. 
Bellaire, O. 
'24 WHERE'S HAROLD? 20.0';^* 
HAROLD WELCH, Fort Dodge, la., was last seen personaliyby-your.secretary in NYC when Harold was liiiiiding;tfie,BeIl Telephone business for the World's Faih. • circa 1930. Now I have news-via a letter •"• from ED CANTWELL that he is recom­mending a trial run in 1972 for our big Golden Reunion in '74. It is a little like suggesting a trial marriage but without the moral stigma. ^Vhat about it 'mates; will you join Harold in '72? It is a little late to advise his many friends that he planned to be at the Michigan State game Oct. 2. Did he make it? He inquired particularly about LEVI GENIESSE. That makes two asking about you, Levi, Harold and LEO HARINGER. Let them hear from you. 
It is about time I exposed a letter from JAMES P. SWIFT, an apparent unwilling candidate for Class President. The opinions 
expressed are entirely his own. Listen to this: (slightly edited) "Perfidious and utterly revolting is the metamorphosis of Ed Cantwell from the sweet boy graduate of 1924 to the dirty old man who by his dastardly nominations for (defunct) class officers pits the blopd brothers EARLE and JIM HURLEY; and MAYL and SWIFT who are cousins by affinity, against each other in a death struggle for the elusive fame and fortune with which such official status is crowned (and don't tell me that Ed didn't know that Helen Mayl is my kissin' cousin). I hereby irrevocably re­nounce Ed Cantwell and all his pomp and evil machinations, and to paraphrase that non-loquacious Republican who occupied the White House when Ed was still a bed-wetter in Walsh Hall: / will not accept the nomination, I will not run against my cousin by affinity, and if elected I will not serve. I hope to see all the living classmates in the luxury of Morris Inn in June '74, except Ed Cantwell who should be banished to the torture chambers of Badin. Cordially . . . Jim." N.B. Notwithstanding the above lengthy quote, the ALUMNUS is getting an abundance of campaign literature from this candidate. In his letter to TIM HUGHES '61, ALUMNUS Editor, published in another portion of the magazine (must reading for "24 classmates) Jim expresses himself and what he stands for. He deals with, in this writer's opinion, the prejudice against the older generation just as naturally and deeply rooted in our modern generation, as we, in our older generation, dealt with race prejudice, but in a sort of reverse­english (to use an old pool-room expres­sion). We pray for the day when age and experience will develop the tolerance of younger generations for the opinion and human honesty of those who have lived before them. Compromise is a sign of maturity when we try to blend idealism with practicality. 
On a recent (when written) visit to Dallas, Tex., our reluctant candidate tried 
to contact PAT BUELL but missed him. 
He says Pat doesn't read the ALUMNUS 
notes, so this secretary is sending him an 
advance copy with a red circle around this 
classnote. Pat, do you remember when the 
Hurt twins (female) made their invasion 
into New York City society about 1925 
from Dallas, and you suggested that I meet 
them and keep them from feeling lonesome? 
I couldn't beat my way through the crowd, 
Pat. Hd Cantwell "leaked" to me that Jim 
Swift was run out of Texas. Did you hear 
any rumors to this effect? 
Our amiable and retiring Gene Mayl also ^deeli'ne.d the nomination in a gentlemanly sfattmient Apparently neither of these lawyer-pplitjcmns are acquainted with Oregon election ballot laws. No popular candidate for high office can withhold his name from the ballot in Oregon. Maybe our Judge, TOM' DONOVAN is acquainted with that law. If you lost your first ballot and need another, ED CANTWELL will supply it. You might even be able to vote twice without detection in the Chicago tabulation, but dc it soon. The judge is 
being pressed to close the tallying and declare the winner. The "machine" is already talking about a recount. When this secretary inquires, all he gets is "Tricky Dickie Talk" from a Democrat. He reports thus: . . . The vote at this time is extremely close . . . returns from Worthington, Minn., and Chatsworth, 111. may well decide the election. . . . Many perplexing questions have been raised, and I in my usual way have fairly resolved them . . . for instance a "wise guy" inquired if I was counting absentee ballots .. . 1 told him if he would send me the laws from each of the 50 states, the Philippines (PIO MONTE­NEGRO); Peru (LOUIS RIVERA); and the Argentine (GENE VIAL), 1 would give the matter further consideration .. . I may add that his ballot was placed in the "D&O" (defective & objective box) . . . another voter wanted to know which of the Hurley boys had the dark wavy hair. . . . I gave him an ambiguous answer because I cannot show favoritism . . . what do you suggest I do with a write-in ballot for Prof. Dan Waters? The judge continues with a devious deceit to disqualify all '24 cum laude graduates on the grounds they should have come up with this idea 47 years ago. He concludes with the advice that he has appointed JOHN P. McGOORTY (Bronson Hall seatmate) as amicus curia (to non-lawyers, friend of the court). He gives us two reasons. (1) Unable to find anyone else to undertake the responsibility, and (2) unable to find anyone else who would admit to the social amenities with the Judge. Thank you. Judge TOM DONOVAN. 
Voting time has been extended rather than a call for a new election in a com­promise solution to the claims of "foul" by some of the candidates and withdrawal by others. Maybe we'll have a Christmas present for half the reluctant candidates. If not, we'll probably have to wait till April 1. 
James P. Durcan 5400 SW Scholls Ferry Rd. 
Portland, Ore. 97225 
'25 MEMORIAL GROWS 18.6%* 
If it wasn't for Judge JOHN F. KILKENNY these past few years your secretary would have little material to work with when the deadline looms up. John is retiring Nov. 1. He will continue working as a judge in senior status and he is entitled to maintain his chambers and his staff. Mrs. Kilkenny plans to attend the Purdue game with PAUL and Mrs. ROMWEBER. 
In a letter sent a few weeks before the above, John felt the Class would be inter­ested in learning that the JAMES W. WRAPE Memorial Fund with the ND Law 
Henry C. Wurzcr 
School now amounts to over $700. The money will be used to purchase books for the law library. Thanks again John, and will some of you '25ers drop me a line about yourselves or other classmates? 
It is with deep regret that I have to an­

nounce the passing of an old friend from 
Toledo and Indianapolis, and a classmate, 
THOMAS F. HARTNETT, 4224 Rustic 
Ave., Paducah, Ky. We received word that 
Tom died in April of this year. 
In a letter dated Sept. 8 from the Alumni 

Office we were told that CHARLES E. 
CASE, 1575 Perry St., Denver, Colo., died 
May 26. 
In the name of the Class I extend heart­

felt sympathy to both wives, and HANK 
WURZER will take care of the Class Mass 
for Tom and Charles. 
John P. Huriey 
2085 Brookdale Rd. 
Toledo, Ohio 43606 
'26 PROMISES, PRO^nSES 24.6%* 
There were firm promises at the reunion that there would be a steady flow of news from the far comers of the states, as yet even the first trickle has not appeared. Maybe I can persuade TOM FARRELL to use a pen instead of a golf club and I know Dr. JERRY HAYES is a busy obstetrician but if the zero population proponents succeed he will have more time soon. We missed several of the standbys at the reunion. HAL KRAUSER, ART BILWILL and JOE RIGALI usually come even if it was for a short stay. CLEM CROWE, ART SUDER, HARROLD KLEEN, WALTER 
•TROHAN and a group of the Mechanicals would like to hear from TONY CAVALLE. 
Had a pleasant surprise, a call from IZZY PROBST. He was up from Key Biscayne to get his son Bernard started as a freshman at ND this year. Sounded as full of vigor as ever. 
Haven't seen RUDY GOEPFRICH since his trip to Alaska. I'm counting on him as a source of news. He gets around and never lets me down. 
JERRY REIDY writes from Chicago: "The old bunch of '26 enjoyed their air-conditioned isolation out in the boondocks. It was too bad that some of the buildings which one looks back upon with nostalgia were locked and bolted, such as the old gym, Washington Hall and the log chapel. One would look for them to be open on such a weekend. It is always a looked-forward-to pleasure to attend the reunions and many thanks to Rudy Gocpfrich and FRANK DEITLE for the enjoyable hours they arranged for us. Is it true that your new slogan is 'Onward and Forward to the Morris Inn in '76'?" 
Frank Deitle 
1763 Kessler Blvd. South Bend, Ind. 46616 
'27 NO AVALANCHE 16.9%* 
My recent request for information regarding retirements from the professional and com­mercial careers did not bring exactly an avalanche of responses. As a matter of fact, 1 have received two replies, one from a classmate who has retired and one from a classmate who has not. 
BOB STEPHAN reUred on May 21 from the U. S. Gypsum Co. His experience covered 37 years, the last 18 of which he served as an officer. After his retirement the company offered him a contract as a consultant and in that capacity he has been working several days a week, which, Bob points out, is a pleasant way to retire into a semi-retirement posture. ITiis provides suf^cient work to keep him alert and sufficient leisure for hobbies and grand­children. He has five daughters and 14 grandchildren, eight of them boys, so he and his wife always have plenty of family activity. Furthermore he has plenty of traveling also as the children and grand­children are scattered from California to Bob continues to live in Barrington his home for some 15 years. He expects to continue to make that his headquarters except for trips to wa:Tner climates if he can in the wintertime. He adds that he sees ED RYAN frequently. Ed lives in Chicago. Bob also has frequent communi­
cation with TOMMY GREEN in Houston and BILL O'KEEFE in Moberly, Mo. All of these classmates are planning on attending Reunion '72. 
AL DOYLE also wrote me. He and Mrs. Doyle are scheduled to fly to Europe in September. Al has not retired and says he does not intend to retire except for frequent vacations during the year to travel and visit his children in the East and West. He says he is going to remain active in the practice of law "as long as I can find my way to the courtroom." 
Clarence J. Ruddy 
III W. Downer Place 
Aurora, 111. 60504 
'28 FLORIDA IN MARCH 19.9%' 
Make your plans now to attend the 2nd Annual Class of '28 Luncheon on March 2, 1972 at the Yardarm in Pompano Beach, Fla. The HATCH-DAILY-QUINLAN team promises a repeat of the successful affair held last year. Since BILL DAILY is based in Florida the year-round, write him at 818 
S. East 4th St., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 33301 advising you will attend. JOHN ROBIN­SON, BOB HAMILTON and ART HOLTON have already indicated they expect to be there. 
The generous hospitality of Frdn and JOE DORAN in the friendly atmosphere of theii beautiful home and the history-making Purdue game combined to give a party of rain-dampened classmates and their wives a most delightful evening on Sept. 25 at Lafayette. Among those there were LOU BUCKLEY, FRANK CREADON, JOE DORAN, BILL DWYER, TOM HART, MIKE HOGAN, TOM LAVELLE, FRANK MCCARTHY, LEO MCINTYRE, FRANCIS MEYER, ART MILLER, BILL MURPHY, GEORGE SCHEUER, SWEDE SCHROE­DER. BERNIE SCHUH, and RUSS SMITH. FRANCIS MEYER did his usual good job in taking pictures which I hope to get to you later and Frank Creadon led us in song. Incidentally the party coincided with the 37th wedding anniversary of the Creadons. 
HOWIE PHALI N and his wife, Pete, have returned from Rochester, Minn., where each underwent surgery. JOE LANGTON is now home after having had surgery on his leg in Chicago. TOM BOV was hospital­ized for several weeks after returning from Pakistan where he picked up a bug. ED BOURKE was hospitalized with a coronary. I am pleased to report that these classmates are making progress in recovery. 
1 gave reports on the deaths of CHARLEY RILEY, CLIFF TROMBLEY, and RALPH NOLAN in my August News-
Kansas to Indianapolis and Chicagoland. 
'Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of Sept. 30, 1971. 
letter. JOE SULLIVAN, LL.B. '29, died 
in Chicago on Aug. 24. Joe was an attorney 
at the time of his death with the Amalga­
mated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen 
of North America. He died suddenly and 
was at work the prior day. He is survived 
by his widow, Kay, and four children. 
BILL MURPHY represented the Class at 
the funeral. 
Father JIM McSHANE, SJ., returned to 
his old address, Apartado Postal 10, 
Progreso Yoro, Honduras, in September 
after surgery this summer in Denver. He 
now visits only four villages, instead of 60, 
for regular parish work and six parishes of 
the State of Yoro to supply movies, radio 
tapes, etc. Father Jim bought and begged 
many radio and TV programs during the 
summer in the U.S. 
Recent get-togethers of '28 men include SWEDE SCHROEDER stopping to see JOE DeBOTT for a first get-together in 20 years: Fr. McShane visiting JOE BRAN­NON and Maria; your class secretary and Pauline having a good session with VINCE CARNEY and Mary and CARROLL PINKLEY in Chicago, and my visit with BILL KIRWAN and Lillian in Iowa City, where my son is a graduate student. Inci­dentally, I am curious over the fact that Carroll Pinkley doesn't have one gray hair. Is it related to his drug business, his living in a small town, or to his being a bachelor 
— I wonder? 
Congratulations to FRANK CREADON on being honored as 1971 Man-of-the-Year at a testimonial sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce and Lions Club of Riverside, III., where Frank is village trustee; and to BILL BROWN on an interesting article in the June-July issue of Parish Today on parish councils. 
Our recent travelers include JERRY GAYNOR (a freighter to Europe and South Africa), Dr. PAT SULLIVAN (an extended stay in Switzerland), JOHN CARLIN (Europe), BERNIE GARBER (Ireland and London, where his son, Clint, has a 2-year Navy assignment), STEVE SHERRY (Japan and Hong Kong), and BOB RIGNEY (Germany to visit his son who is an air pilot there). 
Since retirement is the most important news these days, the following are the most recent to be added to this group: GORDON BENNETT (42 years with the Buffalo Courier-Express); BERNARD CONNELLY (43 years with the Central Trust Co.. Rochester. N.Y.); JOE BRAUNSDORF (35 years with Indiana & Michigan Electric Co.); LOUIS ECKSTEIN (16 years with Scott Tobacco Co., Bowling Green, Ky.); JERRY GAYNOR (10 years as owner of miners Collection Service); CHARLES KAISER (33 years as owner of Lakewood 
Waiiam K. Dwyer 

Coal and Coke Co.); BOB MADDIN (42 years with Northern Pacific Railroad Co.); BILL MAHIN (7 years with Kaiser Engineers); BOB RIGNEY (40 years with Chicago Show Printing Co.); Dr. S. DAVID SOLOMON (40 years of private practice as a physician in Johnstown and Gettysburg, Pa.); and BURT TOEPP (20 years with Bendix Corp.). 
Those who recently reported as retired from their regular employment, but who have taken another job on a part-time or full-time basis include: Father GEORGE BENGLIA CSC, is now auxiliary civilian chaplain at Fort Huachuca, Sierra Vista, Ariz.; PHIL BERTHIAUME is self-employed on a part-time basis as con­sultant on insurance and investments; ART CANTY, after 36 years with Prudential Insurance Co., is now an attorney with Stephens, Jones, LaFeres and Smith in Pasadena, Calif.; FRANCIS DAVID is now with U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, New Orieans District: WAYNE EWING works part-time in auto sales, Weston, Ohio; MAX GAUTHIER, formerly with Internal Revenue Service, is now a self-employed tax consultant; JIM HAYWARD, retired after 28 years with Archer, Danvers Midland Co., is now self-employed as a technical consultant for segments of feed and food manufacturing companies and writes extensively in these fields; ART HOLTON, who retired as commander in the U.S. Navy in 1957 and who worked until 1966 as a high school teacher in Falls Church, Va., is now engaged in home projects in Georgetown area of Washington. DC; BERNARD LOEFFLER. 33 years with Indiana Bell, is now field representative for Engineers Registration Board; and GEORGE SARGUS, for many years owner and operator of retail shoe and clothing stores in Wheeling, W. Va.. now assists his daughter and son who each have retail stores. 
Thanks for the excellent cooperation I have had from classmates on news. For example, Leo Mclntyre kept me advised by phone almost daily on Howie Phalin while he was hospitalized in Rochester, Minn. 
Louis F. Buckley 
6415 N. Sheridan Rd. 
Chicago, 111. 60626 


'29 GEORGE SCHMIDT DIES 20.8%* 
One year ago the highlight of the Class of '29 after football game get-together was the surprise birthday cake and party for Dr. JIM TOBIN. The donor of the cake was classmate and close friend, GEORGE SCHMIDT, and his wife, Jessie, who ac­companied Jim and his Margaret from Elgin, HI. On Aug. 18 George died in his sleep of a massive coronary attack. His sudden death has left a deep sadness, a void that will continue. George was one of those young men who absorbed what ND had to offer to those who lived and studied here with him. No doubt he brought much with him, but he cooperated with Our Lady and her friends here to develop an even stronger sense of values and the foundations of an exemplary way of life. To quote from his wife's brief letter, "The inspiration of Notre Dame was deep within George and was a large part of his life." Their address in Elgin is 620 Summit St. 60120. The Schmidts and Tobins had plans to come to ND together again in October. At times like this God gives us. his classmates, a chance to share "in the inspiration . . , that was deep within George." We offer George our promise of renewed efforts to carry on together. 
Rev. GEORGE HOLDERITH CSC 18 died Sept. 2. Although not in good health he was still up and about until shortly before his death. Father George was, as I recall, a hall rector in our senior year. You know him best, perhaps, as golf coach. His straw hat was invariably the type with a flat brim, like that of Father DOM O'MALLEY. Father LOUIS THORNTON CSC. a good friend of Father George, was one of his honorary pallbearers. 
JOSEPH S. SULLIVAN, monogram man, 
second baseman and captain of the base­
ball team, died Aug. 24. He is survived 
by his widow, Kay, 9250 S. Damen Ave., 
Chicago, III.; two sons. Dr. Patrick and 
William; two dau^ters, Mary Kay Joyce 
and Connie; and a brother, William J. We 
extend the condolences of the Class. 
Congratulations to BILL KRIEG on his recent appointment by the governor of Indiana to the Board of Trustees of Purdue U. At recent class reunions you and I have often heard the question: "What have you heard from or about Bill Krieg?" Usually, at least in my case, I recall rather superficial replies to the question and have had little to contribute myself. We just haven't been reading the right news­papers. In a recent letter Bill writes, .. . "I hope and plan to attend the next '29 class reunion. .. . I am including some biographical information on myself and family . . ." Bill is senior partner of the law firm Krieg, DeVault. Alexander and Capehart, 2860 One Indiana Square, Indianapolis, he is director of numerous companies including Hook's Drugs, Sarget Paint, Mutual Hospital Insurance Inc. (Blue Cross), Boy Scouts .. . President of the Board of Trustees. Winona Memorial Hospital of Indianapolis, President C. C. Fairbanks Hospital of Indianapolis, and former commodore of the Indianapolis Sailing Club, Inc. 
Bill and his wife, Virginia, have two sons, Peter, M.E. Purdue and Frederick. A.B. Wabash, J.D.U. Michigan Law School. Bill took his law at Harvard. He contributed almost five years to military service in the early forties, attaining the rank of lieutenant colonel. He has enjoyed extensive travel and has expended himself in the continuing legal education program of the Indiana Bar Association. He has lectured on federal tax law at Indiana U., Mar­quette and New York U. 
We are grateful to Bill for his contribu­tion to the column. Your classmates and your secretary are dependent on you, especially if you are one whose name seldom appears, for the news we need. The column is the sum of its parts. Please send at least a little today, more later. Thank you. 
Larry Stauder 
Engineering Bldg. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

'30 COMMISERATION 18.8%* 
A cheery card from JACK CASSIDY informed us that he was cruising the river 
Shannon in Ireland this summer with 
CY KELLEHER '35 and his wife. Jack said he ran into TOM KEEGAN sauntering down a street near St. Stephen's Green in Dublin. Tom and his family had been in London where he attended an American Bar Association meeting. If Jack Cassidy had gotten out deeper in the bogs, he might have encountered our Class president, TIM TOOMEY, who was doing a research study there this summer in the interests of the Toomey Foundation. 
JOHN J. ODONNELL has joined the board of trustees of Golden Gate College, San Francisco. O'Donnell is manager of manpower planning and development for the Beehtel Corporation. After ND he did graduate study at Fordham and Columbia. With his wife, Catherine, he lives in San Rafael, California. They have three married children. 
The Class of 1930 will want to remember in prayers the parents of LOUIS CHAP­LEAU who died this summer within the period of one month. 
This office needs some news items fast. 
Maybe Toomey's column in the September issue will have enough libelous charges against classmates to stir up some conflict. Also, there is a substantial number of our class who have gone into early retirement in some sunny clime. They could easily take pen or typewriter in hand, and send us their reflections on the easy life. 
A group of some 1930 class members and wives gathered in the Athletic and Con­vocation Center after the Southern California game. There was a note of disappointment throughout the place after Ihs defeat, but it was soon dispelled by the friendly conversation of old campus friends. Among those sighted were: WALT BER­NARD, JACK CASSIDY, JOE DRINANE, BILL DUNLEVY, MILTON FOX, TOM LANTRY, CHUCK. LENNON, FRED LENSING, DEVERE PLUNKETT, JOE RUPPE, JACK SIGLER, SAM SIL­VESTRO, TIM TOOMEY and JOHN VOSS. 
Sam Silvestro is moving soon to Fort Lauderdale where he can enjoy the warm weather sports and catch ND now and then in the Miami Orange Bowl. 
JOHN HEALY wrote in September prior to his departure for Australia. He will miss the football games this fall in South Bend, but he may find good competitive sports down in Australia. 
The University Club before the Southern California game was the scene of several alumni gabfests. Tom Lantry and wife had as their guests Mr. and Mrs. FRANK SPIEGEL '48. Jack Cassidy was present with CY KELLEHER '35 and his wife. "Hm Toomey moved through the throng dispensing gems of Irish wisdom. Also on hand were my son JOHN PLUNKETT '65 and my nephew PAT PLUNKETT '53 of Detroit. 
Class members will want to extend prayerful sympathy to Jack Sigler whose wife, Helen, died in recent months in Omaha. 

Joe Drinane was accompanied to the game by his daughter who has been doing graduate courses in communication arts at ND in the summer sessions. 
Joe Ruppe now lives back in his old home town, Hancock, Mich, after residing many years in San Francisco. 
JOHN VOSS reported favorably on his brother, Don, who is at a veterans' hospital in Wisconsin. Don attended the 40th re­union at ND in June 1970. 
WALTER LANGFORD has resumed teaching in the ND modem language department, after two years' absence during which he directed ND student programs in South America and in Mexico City. 
ROBERT HOLMES has come out of a very short retirement and has accepted a position with the local Valley Cable Tele­vision Corporation. 
Devere T. Plunkett O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'31 HOPES FOR LETTERS 18.6C 

News is a bit on the sparse side this time, but 1 am hopeful of letters resulting from meeting classmates at football games this season. CLARENCE FUTTER phoned while in town with his wife attending the Gift Show at McCormick Place. KELLY POWERS '32 was a recent guest at his home. Kelly is now retired and living in Ft Lauderdale, Fla. FRANK LEAHY, according to a newscast in late July, is off the critical list at a West Coast hospital. LUIS GODOY and his wife are in Spain attending Salamanca U. where they are taking special teaching courses. I am looking forward to a visit with Luis when he makes his holiday visit to Chicago. Sympathy of the class is extended to DICK BREEN in the loss of his brother. Judge EDWIN T. BREEN '17. FRANK HOLLAND just phoned offering seals for the Northwestern 
game and promises to report on class­
mates seen on campus. Please let me hear from you by letter or telegram as your news makes this column interesting. 
James T. Doyle 
1567 Ridge Avenue Evanston, 111. 60201 
'32 NO NOTES 17.1%* 
The news this month will have to be about me as I have no notes from any of you. Labor Day weekend we took off for Cape Cod to stay at MURRAY BOOTH'S at Brewster. When I say we, I mean we! 
We reserved three cottages: No. 1 to house my wife, Evelyn, daughter, Maryann and girl friend; Cottage No. 2 for our son, Tim, his wife, Lori, our three grandchildren, one dog and one cat; and, in Cottage No. 3 for daughter Sally, son-in-law, Brian Putney, and dog, Mollie. I'm sure the Cape—and Murray—will never be the same. 
The Alumni Office notified us that MARION J. PILLIARD died March 9, 1971. His widow lives in Michigan City, Ind. 
1 am writing this as Ev and I are airborne on our return from 14 days in Greece. Wc spent five days in Athens, five days on a classical tour of the ancient ruins, and four days on a cruise ship of the Greek Islands. We got talking to a gal aboard only to find out she was Mary McNally, SMC '38. 
Walking through one of the castles where St. Paul preached and where the Virgin Mary died, I happened to remark to Ev, "I wonder how Notre Dame made out last 
Francis J. O'Mallcy 
Saturday." A complete stranger spoke out. "They won." 
FRAN OELERICH wiU break up when he reads this but at my old age (and yours) 1 have just accepted a new position as vice president of A.T. Houlihan Inc., in charge of their Pound Ridge office in Scotts Corners. This is a leading real estate firm specializing in estate properties and land development. Fran and I figured out I had 19 jobs since '32 — so this makes 20. That's about all for now. 

We are landing in Paris in another half hour and then non-stop to New York. Reunion is getting closer so let's all make plans to be there. 
Florence J. McCarthy 6 River Road Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 
'33 ISLAND FEATURED 15.7%* 
A recent article in The Raniblin Rover was about Beaver Island, Mich., "The American Arranmore," which was the summer home of our late classmate, WILLIAM F. WIT­TENBURG. Just before his untimely death, Bill sent me voluminous printed matter on this picturesque resort area. At our 35th reunion, 1 promised to visit him, but my plans were cut short by the sad news of his death in '69. The article above described the Gaelic-speaking Irish who settled the island after the forced departure of the Mormons. The priest for these Catholic people was a Rev. Peter Gallagher, born in Ireland and eventually buried in my parish cemetery, St. Denis. This was such a co­incidence that I sent a copy of the story to Mrs. Wittenburg and to JOE DAVEY, the renowned Michigan historian and 
Lucicn S. Kcnipf 

former operator of the gigantic History-mobile. 
The always amiable Joe Davey responded immediately to tell me that the Michigan Department of State had put the History-mobile in mothballs due to budget short­comings. If it is revived the first visit will be to Rogers City in deference to KARL VOGELHEIM. Joe said Sophie and he attended the summer picnic of the Lansing ND Club where they had a nice visit with 
C. J. HESS who is now deputy director of Civil Service for Michigan. The remainder of the '33 Michigan brethren are scattered over that large and beautiful State. Joe's immediate superior is FRANK SlERAWSKl '45, the president of the club. 
Continuing with his personal history, Joe said he is now the curator of the Michigan Historical Museum, Lansing, Mich. He invites traveling classmates to view the contents of the museum but neglected to give the visiting hours. Of his children, the "baby," James Patrick, was graduated from 
U. of Detroit Law School in May and will take the state bar soon. His daughter, Mary Ellyn, is a special ed teacher. The oldest son, John, is an attorney with the Oakland County prosecutor's office in Pontiac. Last, but not least, the Daveys have four grand­children. For the football season, he plans to attend both the Michigan State and the Southern Cal games. The eminent historian invites all members of the '33 class to join him for a pitcher of beer and cake at Mrs. 
'Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of Sept. 30, 1971. 
Nick's after the games. He still hopes to 
find a S7.50 felt hat from Max Adler's that 
was lost under the beer barrel in '30. 
NICK LUKATS, of late-Iate movie fame, 
now resides in Barberton, O. Whenever TV 
revives an oldie, such as a Burns and 
Allen drama, I watch for our classmate. 
Before his Hollywood career, you'll re­
member Nick as an all-time Irish football 
great in '30, '32 and '33. A tennis-incurred 
ankle fracture caused him to nuss the '31 
season but he more than made up by his 
play against Army in '33. I hope he attends 
our 40lh reunion in '73. 
Nick reminded me of another splendid 
player in '30, '33 and '34, DAN HANLEY. 
A few years ago I met him after a Navy 
game in Baltimore. In his playing days 
someone handed him the sobriquet of 
"Dynamite Dan," but when I saw him 
last, he was the image of the distinguished 
Wall Street executive type. 
MAURIE SCANLON, former president of the Glee Club, was the host of that singing group when they visited Rome, Italy. In our senior year, Maurie was the Sorin Sub roomie of MIKE COYLE. Wc had a fine group down there, including NORM DUKE and RAY NABOR. 
Dr. BOB DONOVAN proposes that the stadium be named the "FRANK LEAHY '31 Stadium." That is a wonderful sug­gestion. Bob, and I hope to discuss it with you at the Southern Cal game on Oct. 23. 
The Alumni Association informed me of the death of FRANCIS A. MURPHY of 900 Somerset Avenue, Windber, Pa. 15953. No details or date of death were given. I requested Fr. JIM DONNELLY to remem­ber Frank in his prayers and Masses. Father wrote immediately to Mrs. Murphy and extended the deepest sympathy of the ND Class of '33. 
My niece, Barbara Metz, Margate, NJ., was awarded the "Daniel Keating Memorial Trophy" for her sportsmanship in playing and officiating in the high school basketball league. This trophy honors LEO KEATlNG's son, Dan, who was lost in a boating accident a few years ago. After a great basketball career at ND, I-eo became a member of the faculty of Atlantic City (NJ.) High School. 
DAN CASEY plans to attend the Miami game as well as some of the home games. His son, Joe, a junior at ND this year, made the dean's list again. Dan lives at Evergreen Park, 111. SAM HYDE reminded me that Father Doremus celebrated his 90th birthday on Aug. 4. It is not too late to send this good priest a card or a note. His address is: Rev. CHARLES DOREMUS CSC, Corby Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Judge MAURIE LEE will move to a new home in October and will have the address for the column's next issue. Under the new (1970) Illinois Constitution he is now an associate judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County. 
During August, I had the opportunity to visit HARRY H. FRANCIS '30, who is the owner of a Plymouth-Chrysler agency, Francis Motors Inc., 81 E. Lancaster Ave., Paoli, Pa., 19301; telephone (215) NI 4-2700. Harry, a great baseball player at ND, plans to visit his old teammate, JOHN (Lefty) MORAN '30. in October. Lefty, a successful Allstate Insurance Co. executive for many years, now lives in suburban Chicago and practices law. 
Late in August we were entertained by Fran and WALT RIDLEY '31 at their lovely home in Oreland, Pa. To top a delicious dinner, Fran served Irish Coffee made from all the necessary additives plus a generous portion of TuUamore Dew. Betty and LOUIS (Bookstore Louie) ALAMAN '37 were also guests to complete the ND motif. The only discordant note was Lou's statement that the U. of Kentucky with Paul Alaman playing offensive guard would bring that team to the number-one position in the national ratings. If ND cannot make it, Lou, I'll go along with you! 
This column is being written early because my daughter, Mary Helen, will marry Bruce Edward Mapes, on Sept. 25, 1971 at St. Denis Chapel. My loving wife and proofreader insists that my writings be out of sight before the guests arrive. To repeat in old wheeze, Irene and I will lose a daughter but gain a bathroom. 
Charles A. Conley 100 East Turnbull Ave. Havertown, Pa. 19083 
'34 RHODE ISLAND 4 15.7%* 
JOHN J. MCLAUGHLIN of Providence, 
R. I., is one of four men from "Little Rhody" in the class of 1934. John is president of McLaughlin & Moran, Inc., 175 Terminal Rd., Providence, R.I. Their firm is the top distributor in New England for Anheuser-Busch, Inc. VIN McALOON —Mr. Notre Dame of Rome, Italy—^is originally from Pawtucket, R.I. Vinnie and John McLaughlin roomed together in Sorin Sub in •33-'34, JACK STEELE is owner of an exclusive shop in the city by the sea, Newport, R.I. JOHN S. McKIERNAN, who was lieutenant governor and also governor of Rhode Island, is now a respected judge in their Superior Court. Just recently the famous Doris Duke (tobacco heiress) case came before him. Mac handled this interesting case with distinction. This gives you a complete report on the State of Rhode Island. 
Members of our class who are permanent residents of Florida according to my un­official records are: PARIS N. COWART, 1430 S.W. 12th Ave., Miami, Fla. 33129; WILLIAM P. HUGHES, 47 Palm Club. Pompano Beach. Fla. 33062; CHARLES L. HUISKING, 201 Gaines Ave., Sarasota, Fla. 33580; WILLIAM J. MOTSETT, SR., has moved. His new address is Apt. 911, Sea Ranch Lakes North, 5200 North Ocean Blvd., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 33308. Bill's telephone number is 305-781-1337. Bill is in the real estate business, and is associated with Ivan J. Smith and Co., Inc., 3350 E. Atlantic Blvd., P.O. Box 2775, Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062. His office phone is 305-946-0800. CHARLES QUINN, JR., resides at 927 N.E. 9th Ave., Delray Beach, Fla. 33444. RICHARD B. TOBIN's address is P.O. Box 12728, St. Petersburg, Fla. 33733. Then we have three of our class­mates who spend the winter months in sunny Florida. They are DANIEL J. BRICK, DAVID J. FROELICH, and JAMES R. MORRISON. If any other fellow classmates are residing in the Sun­shine State besides those I've mentioned, I have not been informed about it. 
After scanning through the National Alumni Directory, I learned that FRANCIS 
T. CRAWFORD now lives at Wolfeboro, 
N.H. 03894. His phone number is 603­569-3510. His mailing address is Box 44. We have no representation in Maine or Vermont and only Francis in New Hampshire. 
I was happy to receive a postcard today from RAY and Beachie TROY. They were vacationing in Voss, Norway. This is the town where Knute Rockne was bom. Received another card from Ray Troy today advising of a trip to Cape Cod. 
ELI SHAHEEN tells about his annual golf outing and dinner held in Sturgis, Mich. June 17 was the big day this year. MOOSE KRAUSE, Father RIEHLE and several members of the coaching staff attended. Eli asks "If ND is no longer a Catholic University, what is it then?" This is in response to Father Hesburgh's article that was reprinted in the magazine. Mademoiselle. Eli spent five days at Pheasant Run in St, Charles, 111., recently. 
Dr. Mary Fransioli, daughter of VINCE FRANSIOLI, 141 Fairview Ave., Elmhurst, 
III. 60126, has been named resident psychiatrist at Cleveland Clinic Hospital, Cleveland, Ohio. 
CHARLES H. CARROLL, president of Carpet Laying Service, 1550 E. Birchwood, Des Plaines, 111., has been elected to the board of governors for the ND Club of Chicago. 
NORBERT J. SCHENKEL received the "Man-of-the-Year" Award from the Fort Wayne ND Club. Hope you all read about it in the August edition. Happy to receive a note from WALTER KENNEDY wishing me a speedy recovery after my gall bladder operation. It was finally removed on Aug. 5. 
More changes of address for our class­mates: EMMET J. HOLLAND, 1950 Park Ave., Paducah, Ky. 42001; EDWARD A. KERNS, 4271 Hilray Dr., Saginaw, Mich. 48603; BROTHER E. P. MULVANEY FSCH, Bishop Hendricksen High School, 2615 Warwick Ave., Warwick, R.I. 02889; ROBERT S. RENSBERGER, 192 Berwick Place, Lansdale, Pa. 19446 and AUGUST VON BOECKLIN, P.O. Box 1882, Tacoma, Wash. 98401. 
WILLIAM J. WALSH formerly of 7357 Merrill Ave., Chicago, III. 60649 is now listed as address unknown. 
Edward M. Moran 2501 N. Central Ave. Chicago, 111. 60639 
'35 ATTENTION WIVES 16.6%* 
This column is directed exclusively to the wives of the Class of '35. After several years of frustration as secretary and, after my experience this past weekend, and after the Michigan State game, have concluded I've been appealing erroneously to the male of the species. From now on that is going to change! 
My dear wives of the Class of '35 (pretty good approach, I think), this column is being written two days after a swinging 
Paul A. Fergus 

"wingding" in South Bend, during the So. Cal weekend. Secretaries are supposed to be "chosen" (or "conned" into serving, as I was) to meet the challenge of the ALUMNUS' deadlines with equanimity (never heard of her). So here goes: 
We finally made it! A successful mini-reunion at South Bend. The wives of the Class of '35 did it! About 3 weeks ago Lenore Fergus and Elouise Ryan decided to jointly arrange an affair at their respective homes Friday night and Saturday after the "Revenge Bowl." They concluded after 14 phone calls (par for the course) that those '35ers who had declared themselves—the old standbys—VAN HUISSELINGs, MAFFEIs, BILL BERNARDS, BOB ROGERS', TOM STRINGERS, JOE SCHMIDTS, etc., were sufficient to get a mini-reunion started. To this group they expected the TOM WELSHs, AL RUBLYs, JOE LYNCHs, GEORGE McGRATHs, JIM O'MEARAs, DAVE LYNCHs and others who directly or indirectly indicated they would be here. Added were the South Bend stalwarts for 35 years— the KURT SIMONS, FAL HARRIS'. TOM HICKEYs, JIM McCRALEYs, CHET CHANDLERS, KARL FULNECKYs, and ED SMITH, 
our treasurer. (By the way, Ed is so dear 
to our hearts that no longer do we allow 
him to drive after dark without a body­
guard.) Last, but not least, the expected 
the suave and former Class of '35 professor, 
CoMsrats 
LEE FLATLEY, and the reason for his 
O'Brien O'Neil Grosso 
Neaher Gormeley Ford, Jr. 
Eugene A. O'Brien '28 has been chosen to head a new authority, the 
•'MXC" or Minnesota Experimental City. Appointed by Gov. Wen­dell R. Anderson, O'Brien is to head the 11-man unit for two years. The primary responsibility of the group will be the selection of a site for a city of ultimately 250,000 population in Northern Minnesota. O'Brien is vice president of Sun Newspapers in Minneapolis. 
John W. O'Neil '34 has been promoted to senior vice president in the Banking Division of the Boatmen's National Bank of St. Louis, where he is in charge of four departments. Leasing and Equipment Financ­ing, Time Plan, Master Charge and the Fort Leonard Wood Facility. 
Louis J. Grosso '35 has been named vice president of Marine Midland Bank-New York. He is in charge of business development for the per­sonal trust department and had been an assistant vice president since 1968. He is married and lives in Manhattan. 
Edward R. Neaher '37 has been nominated by President Nixon to be judge of the Federal Court of the Eastern District of New York. He has been serving as U.S. attorney for that district. After graduation at ND he received his lav/ degree at Fordham U. and served as a spe­cial agent of the F.B.L before becoming a partner in a law firm. 
James F. Gormeley '44 is vice president of manufacturing for General Signal Corp., New York. Before joining General Signal, he served for six years in operations for International Telephone and Telegraph Corp., most recently in Los Angeles and earlier in Brussels.- He lives at 536 Surrey Lane, Fairfield, Conn., with his wife and son. 
John T. Ford Jr. '47 has been appointed vice president for finance of the Chesapeake and Ohio & Baltimore and Ohio railroads. Ford joined C&O in 1951 as internal auditor in Cleveland and went to Bal­timore the next year as comptroller for C&O and B&O. With his wife and three children he lives in Severna Park, Md. 21146. 
success outside the classroom—wife Kay. 
Lenore and Elouise's "hunch" that this was the year for a successful mini-reunion was, as usual, correct—much as Paul and I hate to admit their feminine clairvoyance. (For youse guys in Phy Ed that means to "see beyond.") At the zenith of activities Friday night at the Elouise Ryan's 38 were accounted for on their feet, and 7 other­wise. Lee Flatley attested to the tatter's attendance, but as a member of the National Council of C.P.A.'s, did so with a footnote that they were there and in the party "according to accepted principles of accounting." 
Not all the "maybes" showed up but other welcome '35ers did—like the wives of BILL MILLER, AL D'AMORA, PAT FISHER, ART MULHOLLAND, FRANK McQUIRE (all the way from Europe), JIM McDEVITT and BILL GORGEN. 
Ill Van Huisseling discovered other wives after the game at the Convocation Center— the HOWARDS, POGUEs, DEMETRIOs, and others, but prior commitments pre­vented them from coming to Lenore Fergus' party—which was not a sober party despite the afternoon's giveaway program in the stadium. 
Have no idea how you gals corralled your husbands and kept them going these past 36 years. But you must have a story to tell, and most importantly, you can help this column—if it is worthy of perpetuating— by passing on interesting information about you and your loved ones. Please, may I have your cooperation for future columns? Am tired of appealing to the males for interesting news—receive only mundane info. Let's hear from "the gif^Is behind the throne." Promise to lend my by-line to the one who writes first! 
Have now about reached my quota of words for this issue. However, look for more to come in '72—solicited from Isabelle (DAVE) LYNCH, Marge STRINGER, Elizabeth Jane O'MEARA, Carroll FISHER, and other dolls who surrounded me this and the Michigan State weekends. 
Really was inundated by news for this column—received one letter from TONY CROWLEY! Tony retired and moved to Boca Raton. The Crowleys' children are now technically off the payroll: oldest daughter married to a doctor—^has two children; son. Bill, starting second year as an IVIBA at 11. of Florida; Mary Anne with a master's, and two years of elementary teaching, starting in Stuart, Fla., this fall as a teacher. Have fun Tony—hope to join you before too long. 
Attended the wedding a few weeks ago of DAN and Dorothy YOUNGERMAN's oldest daughter, Peggy Sue. Couldn't help thinking of Dan during the ceremony, and how proud he would have been to walk Peggy Sue down the aisle. PAUL FERGUS, her uncle, did the honors instead. 
It still isn't too late to join the "group" at the LSU game in Baton Rouge on Nov. 25, i.e.—if you have tickets, a tent, a Coleman lantern and an understanding frau! Seriously, if you are planning to go— get in touch with ED VAN HUISSELING, PAUL FERGUS or CAMILLE GRAVEL (Alexandria, La.). Understand Camille has rounded up quite a few hotel and motel rooms—so if you decide to go call him pronto and hope for the best. 
Our treasurer, ED SMITH, just told me he got a ruling that the "Nixon Freeze" doesn't apply to annual dues for the '75 reunion. You can still pay for the entire five years—namely 10 bucks—all at one time. Ten bucks from one hundred '35ers 
'Percentage of donors to the ND.Annual Fund as of Sept. 30, 1971. 
invested for three years at 7 per cent (we can get it!) is worth 10 bucks from 21 '35crs. Or, to put it more factually, and more enticingly—allows us to supply 35 fifths of your favorite beverage (at whole­sale, of course) "on the house." How aljout it? And, also, how about some news for this column? 
William F. Ryan 
1620 E. Washington Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46617 
'36 THANKFUL BUDDY 20.4%* 
JAMES S. GLEASON JR., has been 
appointed vice chairman of businessmen for Loyola U., Chicago. He is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the Mercantile National Bank of Chicago. IRWIN (Buddy) GOLDMAN writes that it is a crying shame that open-heart surgery must provide the motivation for a guy to write to his class secretary. Buddy is doing well and beautifully, thanks to the skillful hands of the eminent Dr. Denton Cooley and the special Mass attended by all the '36ers who met at the reunion, and is deeply grateful. Now he can boast a record that might never be broken under the Golden 
Francis L. Laydcn 

Dome. Back in '31 when as a freshman he contracted pneumonia. That was "BA" before antibiotics, etc. so, the victim just lies in bed until the crisis passes. During that time, the entire school participated in a special novena for him in the Sacred Heart Church. Buddy still has the religious bulletin with this announcement. And this again in 1971 comprises a unique ND record, especially for a nice Jewish fella. It worked beautifully both times, so what more could an ND man want except perhaps St. Mary's girls, who are now on the way. All kidding aside, Buddy is using this column to profoundly thank us one and all, to ANDY HUFNAGEL, JOHN MORAN and the rest for their prayers in his behalf. Six weeks after Buddy's operation he returned to work. It involves some writing, research and teaching in the College of Education, U. of Arizona, having changed careers in '65 when he entered grad school and pursued an MA degree while teaching in the English department. 
His only regret was inability to join us at the reunion and he is looking forward to participating in the next reunion so that he can personally thank us all for our prayers and to see his former Scholastic colleagues, Moran and Hufnagel. 
"The past months of inactivity," he writes, "have kept me out of touch with ND men in Tucson. However, did read in the paper the other day that Tim King '36L cele­brated the occasion of one of his daughters taking her vows. Two sons and wife, Heanor, comprise my family. One son. Bill, engaged in the field of special education with disturbed children and the younger son, Jim, attends junior college. Wife, Eleanor, is secretary to the deans of boys and girls at one of our major high schools." I guess you could say that the entire Goldman family is involved in education to one degree or another. Whether that is good education in general remains an unsolved mystery. In closing Buddy again expresses 
his deep thanks and heartfelt wishes to 
us all. 
Buddy lives at 3932 East Poe, Tucson, 
Ariz. 85711. 
From DAN O'BRIEN: "Spent a weekend at ND and watched the Irish squeak through a tough Northwestern team." 
Presently Dan and his wife are staying in Cleveland for the duration of the home season at ND. Sold our home in Penn­sylvania and spending most of our time in Florida now that all of our children are all on their own or away to school. 
Dan spent some time with a number of classmates including that rare Irishman TOM GRADY and his bride. Dan didn't say where this took place but I imagine on the ND campus. 
ART MULHOLLAND and Mary Frances plus two of their children who go to school in Tampa are going to join us down South for the ND-Miami game. 
Dan asked me if I ever had seen SONNY CHURCH. We had visited Sonny about 3-4 years ago and if I am not mistaken I made a report about seeing him. Quite a few of our classmates live close by in this vicinity but seldom see, visit, or get calls from any of them with the exception of JOHN MORAN up in Cedar Grove, as we call one another from time to time. Hope the boys take this hint and give me a ring. My new address is 249 North Day St., Orange, NJ. 07050. Tel. No. is 673-5290. 
Incidentally, Dan will be in Florida after Nov. 15 at IID Concourse Drive, Turtle Creek Village, Teavesta, Fla. 33458. 
Larry Palkovic 249 N. Day St. Orange, NJ. 07050 
'37 REUNION '72 16.9%* 
Appointment news tells us ANTHONY (Tony) O'BOYLE has been promoted to Class 3 in the U.S. Foreign Service and confirmed by the U.S. Senate. Tony entered the foreign service in 1956 and is currently assigned to the Embassy in Saigon as consul, a long way from the Scranton­Wilkes-Barre Pa. area. 
Rev. JOSEPH POWERS CSC former 
E.V.P. of U. of Portland will direct that University's overseas center in Salzburg, Austria, during 1971-72 academic year. To complete the overseas news, JACK Mc-AULIFFE, an architect from Honolulu, is also a rear admiral in the Navy Seabee Reser\es, a former deputy director of the State Transportation Department in Hawaii. Jack's Seabees made history as they con­structed the North Field at Tinian from 
Robert M. Siegfried 
which the "Enola Gay" took off in 1945 with the historic bomb. 
Back home, we have GLEN RICHARD­SON appointed as associate director of personnel for labor relations at the U. of Chicago. DICK DELANEY anticipates a trip for a game and also reports the family news as No. 1 daughter teaching in Omaha, son, Richard, with Arthur Young & Co., 
L. A., and two other children teaching in Ohio. This is Iowa's contribution to the 
U.S. EDDIE REARDON checked in from Baltimore, there for the Chief-Colt game, with son, Kerry, on the Chief squad. There 
is still another Reardon playing for Iowa, Terry. Your secretary attended the Met Club of 
N.Y. party for Freshmen and parents in NYC. No reps of '37 were present to help. Missed BILL FALLON, who reportedly is not the Ford man. JIM McDEVITT, on the Board of the Met Club, reported that the ceremony and party for JUDGE NEAHER was a large event. 
GERRY ZEILLER, the new commissioner of HEW in New Hampshire, has his depart­ment making news in the mountains where the touring pros start. Other N.E. rep. has mail from Maine for SKIP COURMIER returned no forwarding address. 
Don't forget —REUNION 1972. 
J. P. Quinn, Jr. P.O. Box 275 Andover, NJ. 07821 
'38 BURNIE'S BLARNEY 22.6%* 
I'm warnin' ye right off. I kissed the Blarney stone in the midst of the Irish mist. Both my folks and my wife, Helen's, folks came from County Roscommon. So be takin' what 1 tell ye from now on with a grain of salt—in your beer. 
Being with grand families in Limerick, Cork and Dublin and in Glasgow, Scotland, I missed the last issue (Did you notice?) but covered every other issue in the world in the pubs and so am prepared to roll out barrels of good cheer. 
First cheerful bit was a note from BOB ORVIS, of Orvis and Douglas, CPAs, Los Angeles, that he had stopped off at ND for the first time in 20 years on the way from Boston. He was impressed. Another note 
Leonard H. Skoglund Jr. 

came from JOE KRUPA, Portland, Ore., 
telling me he would be here for the Navy 
game. 

A newspaper photo showing JOHN (Jack) A. SCOTT with President Nixon at the retirement dinner of Purdue's presi­dent, Hovde, which Jack emceed, arrived with postage due. Glad to pay—^just send the news, lads. 
Another note from Krupa said Clare, the wife of JIM SULLIVAN, with GE in Bing­hamton, N.Y., had undergone open-heart surgery and that prayers would be ap­preciated. Joe took classes in our sem'or year and graduated from Portland U. He has 5 boys and four girls with 5 grand­children so far, works for Pacific Northwest Bell and occasionally sees BOB HUTCHIN­SON who lives in Bend, Ore., where he sells auto supplies. 
REDMAN DUGGAN wrote from 550 Waldo Ave., SE, Salem, Ore., where he has retired, after 30 years in the Foreign Service, because of total blindness and now increasing deafness. He received a Dis­tinguished Service Medal and Citation (living in Sorin sub, no doubt, conditioned him) from the State Department. 
A letter from BILL COSTELLO in St. Louis brought the sad news that MARC GRUENENFELDER died of cancer recently. "My memories of Marc at ND are that he seemed always to be walking towards—never away from—the old architecture building. It didn't matter whether it was morning or evening, Satur­day or Sunday—Marc always had a heavy roll of blueprints under one arm and a T-square under the other," says Bill who lived near Marc and his wife, Lorraine, in the city of Des Peres, near St. Louis. Bill is now with one of St. Louis's oldest real estate firms. He and wife, Kathie, have three children married, with 7 grand­children. They also have a son. Jack, who is a deacon and will be ordained a priest on May 20. Bill sent a full-page pictorial story of Jack's work in SL Norbert Parish last summer. Another son is at home. Bill would like to hear from TOM FITZ­GERALD, CHARLIE CALLAHAN, FRANK BRIGHT, JOE MESSICK and JIM DOUGHERTY. 
Another sad note: EMERSON HYNES 
M.A. '39, a close friend of mine who was in the two-year apologetics program and got to know many of us in our senior year, died July 30 of a heart attack in Arlington, Va. He was Sen. Gene McCarthy's assistant and close friend from the time when both were on the faculty of St. John's U. in Minnesota. Emerson and his wife, Arleen, had 10 children and we often visited at each other's homes—that was a full house! Fr. Leo Ward said a special Mass for him at ND attended by his ND friends. 
On Aug. 22, Bro. REGINALD JUSZCZAK CSC died of a heart attack. He taught at ND and had served as principal of several high schools. 

To end on a happy note, GEORGE B. MORRIS JR. has been appointed vice president and chief negotiator of General Motors. George lives at 1420 Pembroke Rd., Bloomfield HUls, Mich. 
Bumie Bauer 
1139 Western Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 46625 

'39 JIM 21.3«; 
'40 BOTHERED BY M.R.U. 21.2'; 

Before reporting the class news I want to make some comments pertinent to our University. It bothers me that some of the address changes received are marked 
M.R.U. (mail returned unopened). If the reason for this is dissatisfaction with the St Mary's College merger, please give some thought to my brief comments. 
Constructive change is necessary to every organization no matter what its goals and purposes might be in these days of constant change. If you will recall changes were being made during our years on campus; many appeared to be minor, but our campus life was different from that of those who preceded us. 
The merger was considered for a number of years before it became an actuality. It was investigated and studied by many experienced and vitally concerned religious and lay men and women. The primary concern was the welfare and education of present and future students at both insti­tutions. I grant you the decision was not based on nostalgia and concern for the past; it was based on the needs and goals of the future. The past and our experiences are ours to hold and cherish all of our lives. The present and future of our Uni­versity must be directed to the needs of the present and future students. 
Let us not become disgruntled and antagonistic because our University is not the same as it was in our day. Let us pray that God and Our Lady of Notre Dame and St. Mary's will guide all associated with the schools to even greater accomplish­ments. One way we can display this hope is by continuing our support and interest in the University that has given so much to us. 
In pursuit of news of the Men of '40 my visit to Missoula, Mont, was successful. Although visiting other friends, we tracked down Dean ROBERT E. SULLIVAN. Bob is dean of the Law School at the U. of Montana and active in many areas associated with the education of lawyers. We had a pleasant visit reminiscing and he looks just great. We also enjoyed his fine, sociable family, and Sully assured me he will do his best to make the '75 reunion. 
While attending an accounting con­vention in Lexington, Ky. I saw JIM CULLATHER and other ND accounting 
Waller L. Fleming Jr. 
professors. Jim reports all is well with him and his family. 
Fr. JOHN F. ANTON '38, was a house guest who reported among other things that he sees JOE THESING often. Joe is with the Toyota Co. with offices in the Oakbrook, 111. area. JIM DONOGHUE informed us of the death of the mother of PAUL LENIHAN. The Men of '40 assure you of their prayers, Paul, for your mother and your intentions. 
Received word that CHARLES A. WAECHTER has been named an instructor in sociology at Walsh College, Canton, Ohio. He holds an M.A. in sociology from the U. of Akron. 
It is strange that shortly after seeking informaUon about NORV HUNTHAUSEN a routine change of address notice was received. Norv has left that famous metropolis of Mexico, Mo., and now resides in Davenport, la. His address is 2130 Kohler Dr. It is only proper that you Davenport men check on Norv and see that we receive more information. 
As you can see the news is not lengthy and since the vast majority of you are reluctant to write I expect to see many of you at the Convo Center after the games and thus come up with more news. 
Robert G. Sanford 947 Oakcreek Dr. Dayton, Ohio 45429 
'41 FOUR IN COLLEGE 21.6%* 
Had a note from BOB SAGGAU. He and 
Marge will have four in college this year, 
Barbara at Witchita State, Dave at U. of 
Wisconsin at Milwaukee, and Tom and 
Catherine at U. of Wisconsin at Oshkosh. 
We'll have to keep selling a lot of skis. 
Expects to be at the Northwestern and Southern Cal games. 
Heard from JACK BURKE who let a 

day in court in Sioux Falls interfere with his reunion plans. Doesn't sound like the Jack I knew in Law School. At that time he didn't let anything get in the way of his plans. He has his oldest boy at Arizona State at Tempe, and his No. 2 son has just finished his frosh year at ND and will be taking his soph year at ND in Rome. 
FRANK WEMHOFFs oldest boy. Drew, 
1 4.­
William E. Cotter Jr. 

started at ND this fall. Frank sees BILL MORREY occasionally in Chicago and also visits just about every summer with his old roommate, BUD POGLIANO in Colorado. Bud is with Honeywell. 
GEORGE RASSAS is still in the con­struction business in Chicago and sent me a very nice article on Dr. JIM CARROLL who is doing great work as the police surgeon in Chicago. 
Marty and I spent a weekend in Phoenix recently and met ART ERRA '30, who is a hearing officer for the Insurance Depart­
ment, and also saw an old friend, JOHN MILLER '48, who is now practicing law there and has just become a partner in the law firm with which he has been associated for five years. 
My son, TIM '69, is now in the Teacher Corps and is teaching at Boligee, Ala. 
This December 28 will be the 25th anniversary for my bride, Marty and me. We are going to celebrate a little earlier though. As soon as I get this column off in the mail, we'll be winging our way to Hawaii for a short stay at the Royal Hawaiian. 
Come on all you '41ers, let's hear from you so I can keep the rest of us informed. As the years go on there will be fewer of us, and it becomes important to know more about the remainder—so write. 
Bill Daly 
1204 Indian Springs Drive Glendora, Calif. 91740 
'42 -nVO DIE 19.4%* 
JOHN P. CRONIN has been appointed manager of sterile products for the Upjohn Company. He lives in Kalamazoo, Mich, with his wife and two sons. 
We are deeply saddened by the deaths of two of our classmates. DANIEL F. DUGGAN died June 19, and RICHARD 
T. MATLAVISH in July. To their widows and families we extend our deepest sympathy, and we shall all remember Dan and Dick in our prayers. 
Thanks to Rabbi ALBERT PLOTKIN for his very nice note in July thanking uf for mentioning him in our column. It is always nice hearing from our classmates and we wish more of you would drop us a line and let us know what you are doing and anything that might be of interest to all of us. News has been very scarce lately. 
A good time was had by all at the Miami game. Among members of our class that your reporter visited were TOM WALKER, LARRY KELLEY and JIM CONWAY. We stayed at the Key Biscayne Hotel. I 
*Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of Sept. 30, 1971. 
am sure there were many others of our 
class who stayed on the Beach at the 
Deauville and the Fontainebleau. 
Congratulations to JAMES D. MORAN who was elected president and chief executive officer of the Flintkote Company, White Plains, N.Y. Jim lives in Larchmont with his wife and six children. 
DON FIGEL reports there was a minia­ture reunion of the Class of '42 at the Purdue game in Lafayette. TED MC­DONALD and his wife, Corrine, hosted MIKE CARR and Betty Lou, DON MARTIN and Mary, DON FIGEL and Marge, JOHN MALONE and Ellen, and JIM McNULTY and Mel, also STEVE GRALIKER. VINCE SHIELY was scheduled but had to cancel. 
William M. Hickey 5500 West 73rd St. Chicago, III. 60638 
'43 FAME LUNCH 18.2%* 
Your secretary was in Chicago for the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame luncheon. 
GEORGE CONNOR '48 is president and our own JOE KEENAN is vice-president of the chapter. JOE JR. '70 has signed a contract with the Cleveland Indians and is with their Sarasota, Fla. team. 
TONY GIROLAMl, ED MURRAY, and BUD DUDLEY were other NDers in attendance. The Murray family left shortly thereafter for an extended tour of Europe. Had a great visit with "Inspector Shindler" Dudley who was in for All-Star week, promoting the Liberty Bowl game. 
MARK PFALLER writes that eldest son, Mark II, started in Fine Arts at Wisconsin State U., Oshkosh, and after three years started fresh in Architecture at Ball State 
U. This fall he transferred to ND where he will be a junior again. The junior architectural class is studying in Rome this academic year. Mark left for Paris in September and after a tour will continue on to the Eternal City. Mark sees BOB HACKNER occasionally and had plans to see BILL and JACK SHERER. ED KAM­MERER '67 and PAT WAITE '65 are aspiring young architects with Mark F. Pfaller Associates, Architects-Engineers, 3112 West Highland Boulevard, Milwaukee, Wis. 53208. 
THOMAS MILLER, 11 Mt. Lebanon Blvd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15228, writes that daughter, Michele, graduated from St. Mary's in '70 and Diane is a senior there this year. Eldest son Timothy is a freshman at ND in A. B. and Walsh Hall and will be the first of the third generation of Millers to play football at ND. 
Thanks, Mark and Tom, for coming through. 
Frank W. Kaiser 307 Charry Chatsworth, 111. 60921 
'44 REJOICE! 18.8'; 
Autumn is here. For some it is a time of much excitement because the football season is once again in full swing. For others it is a time of great pleasure because the change in season from summer to fall brings with it a majesty of glorious colors. For a few it is a time of increasing sorrow because age has dimmed their outlook and the approaching winter with its long cold dark days is a continuing of a long tired life. Let us rejoice, however, because as winter turns to spring life here is but a prelude for living in eternal splendor. 
RAYMOND J. CUSICK has been elected vice president of Turner Construction Co., 
New York, the firm he joined upon gradu­
ation. He is operations manager of the 
company's Philadelphia office and will 
continue in that capacity. 
Recently an early morning call was received from JOE CHRISTEN, Western Springs, III. He was en route with his family to D6or County for a vacation and had stopped overnight in Green Bay. Un­fortunately it was the morning following a tragedy in my family so it was impossible to suggest a breakfast meeting before his departure for the Door County Peninsula. Joe is with the A. G. McKee Construction Co. and just had completed a big job in Memphis. His family consists of three children—a daughter at Marquette, a son at Southern Illinois and a son at home. 
Does anyone know the whereabouts of RICHARD KISGEN, originally from Iowa? A letter came from TOM CUTSHAW who is on a sabbatical from Morehead State U. and presently is doing research on inter­national law in Washington, D.C. If Dick can be located, write to Tom in care of 5502 Decatur St., Hyattsville, Md. 20781. 
Perhaps several of you have sons or daughters who entered ND this fall. Some of them have been mentioned in previous columns. For those desiring such publicity, drop your secretary a card with the infor­mation. It will be used in a future issue. One recent entry is Mike Christman '75, son of WALLIE CHRISTMAN, Green Bay's gift to ND. 
Col. WILLIAM KELLY is on the move 
again. That is par for a career serviceman. 
For the past three years he was in Wash­
ington, D.C. where he was a member of the 
Armed Service Board of Contract Appeals. 
Now he is in Dallas where he is General 
Counsel to the Army/Air Force Exchange 
Service. He feels it will be an exciting and 
interesting experience and should be an 
assignment of about four years. The Kelly 
family lives on the south side of the city 
at 6529 Braddock Place. Fellow '44ers in 
the Dallas community take note and 
welcome Bill and Helen to the ND family 
in that area. 
Joseph A. Neufeld Post Office Box 853 Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
'45 ITS NOT ALL BAD! 23.8%* 
There's a certain risk of having to work extra, to type more, to send out more letters, and to stand by the front door and wait for the mailman . . . especially as deadlines arrive . . . but when a job involves getting word from some old friends and classmates telling you how their children are doing great, and how they themselves are happy, progressing, working hard, making money, living good . . . then the job can't be all bad. There's plenty of compensation in it. It's nice to hear from you guys. So please write. 
Received a nice note from FRANCIS FITZGIBBONS telling me that he and his wife Evelyn (St. Maiy's '45) and their eight children live happily in Estherville, la., where Francis practices law in association with his two brothers. His oldest boy, John 
(20) was recently elected president of the Student Body at St. Norbert's College, Green Bay, Wis. John is now a senior there. Ann (19) is a junior at St. Mary's College; Tom (18) is a sophomore at the U. of Iowa; Joseph (16) is a senior at Esther­ville High School. Coming up in the rear, but strong competitors to older brothers and sisters are Julia (15), Kathleen (13), Joan (9), and Mary Claire (7). Francis adds a few notes which I found interesting to read, and sort of relaxing compared to my hectic Fifth Ave. and 45th SL, survival pace: 
"I am sure that my life since leaving ND," writes Francis, "has been very ordinary with the accomplishments, awards, successes and disappointments that most of 
us expected. Estherville is my home area and in the heart of the rich Iowa com belt. There are few ND graduates in the area but I occasionally hear from BOB OTOOLE, MIKE GARRY and BOB SINKLE. My life is devoted to our children and my law practice. The children, fortunately, are all in excellent health, reasonably intelligent, active and apparently happy. We have severe winters in Iowa, particularly in this area, but fortunately we have a ski area less than a mile from our home so the winters are active and enjoyable. We have a summer home in the Lake Okoboji area, some 20 miles from home. This area is one of the last beautiful inland lake areas in the world—a deep (100-150 feet) lake that is unpolluted and serene. Our visitors from the Wisconsin and Minnesota "lake states" are amazed at this beautiful lake. Estherville is also one of the few places left in the country that does not have the large city problems. We have excellent schools, a small community college, little if any serious crime, little if any poverty, and no racial problems. We are only about two hours from the Minneapolis-St. Paul area so we can enjoy the benefits of the metropolitan area without the many inherent problems. I am sure you will conclude that we are very happy. I believe the good priests and brothers and teachers at ND were trying to teach us how to live a happy life. I believe in my case this has been accomplished .. . the Lord has been good to our family." 
More nice news is that JOHN G. MACK 
Jr. has been named president of the 
container division of the Inland Steel Co., 
Chicago. He joined Inland in 1946 at East 
Chicago, Ind. 
DR. WILLIAM E. CASTLE is a dentist 
in Lockport, New York. He too has a small 
family of few children . . . seven in his case. 
His wife Jean and he supervise the house­
hold consisting of Mary Beth (23), Michael 
(21), Carolyn (18), Ann (17), Stacy (15), 
William, Jr. (13), and Kerry (9). Mary 
Beth is a nurse in Boston, Mass.; Michael 
is a junior at St. Bonaventure; Carolyn is 
on the dean's list and is a sophomore at 
St. Mary's; Ann is starting her studies in 
nursing at Niagara U.; Stacy is a freshman 
at DeSales High School; William and Kerry 
are still in grade school. And Jean? . . Bill 
writes that "she's tired!" We say it's nice 
to be tired in such a wonderful way. 
Rev. JOHN VAN WOLVLEAR CSC has 
been named director of admissions and 
financial aid at the U. of Portland, Oregon. 
JACK FENA and his wife Kathleen live in Hibbing, Minn., where Jack is practicing law and has been a member of Minnesota State legislature for 12 years. Their family •of 10 consists of James (19), Urslynn Ann (21), Susan (18), SaUy (16), Peter (14), Margaret (13), Christopher (11), Barth­olomew (10), Mary Ann (8), and Andrew (5). 
CLIFF MARKS and his wife, Virgima, have just celebrated their 25th anniversary. "Hard to believe," writes Cliff, "seems a lot less than that . . . they've been good years." Cliff and "Ginny" are ^andparents since son Mike (19) and his wife had a daughter, Christine, bom on Cliff's birthday, Jan. 5 of this year. Cliff writes: "I'm working on Space Shuttis Program for McDonnell Douglas, Des Peres, Mo., as director of the orbiter stage. Prior to that I was director of ad'anced systems and technology for MDC in St Louis. I see FRANCIS J. (Paddy) McCARTHY frequently . . . he's in same parish . . . coaches all teams .. . his Tom and my Pat 
(14) were high-point men on St. Clement basketball team . . .also have daughters in same class. CAL BLATTNER '46, was one semester behind, works at MDC and I see him frequently of course. Saw JIM DUGGAN and his wife at one of ND 
football games last year. He's still one of 

the nicest guys you'll meet anywhere." By 
the wav, the other two Marks' children are 
Mary Beth (10) and Carol (8). 

That's the short visit for this time. See 
you real soon. And write me meantime. 
A. V. Lesmez 122 TuUamore Rd. Garden City, N.Y. 11530 

'46 GOOD WORK 18.7%* 
Please be advised that TIM HUGHES, the 
ALIJMNUS Managing Ed., has forwarded to 
yours truly three articles concerning our 

classmates. Tim was kind in his brief note 
to tell me to keep up the good work. Might 
I say to Tim he's doing an excellent job 
for me. 

You will be pleased to hear that THEO­
DORE C. RADEMAKER was appointed 
to the position of assistant regional com­
missioner (Appellate), North Atlantic 
Region, New 'i'ork, N.Y. This region in­
cludes six New England states and New 

York. Ted began his IRS career in 1948 as 
a special agent in South Bend, Ind. Ted 
holds a bachelor of science degree in 
accounting and finance from ND. He 

married the former E Nancy Anderson, the 
belle from Peru, Ind. Mrs. Rademaker has 
four wonderful children. What arc their 
names? 
PRESCOTT O. WILLAMAN of 
Ossining, N.Y., vice-president of sales for 

New York Air Brake Co., Watertown, N.Y. 
was graduated from the Advanced Manage­
ment Program of the Harvard U. Graduate 
School of Business Administration. Con­
gratulations, Prescott! 

EDWARD M. SCOTT is deserving of our congratulations for his recent book entitled "The Adolescent Gap." It will be published in 1972. The text has a foreword by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC. Dr. Scott is the clinic director for the State of Oregon Mentali Health Division's Alcohol and Drug Section. My warmest and sincere good wishes go to you three. Keep up the excellent work. 
It was indeed a pleasure to communicate with PETER RICHISKI, our past excellent secretary. Peter and Helen pass along that they are all fine and in the best of health and spirits. 
The school bells are ringing for me so it is another interesting year of teaching at Barringer High School in Newark, NJ. I am fortunate in being able to team teach with a great NDer, WILLIAM HEWSON '58. 
I am happy to inform you that JOSEPH DeLIA '47 is now interning and hopes to hang the shingle with M.D. following his cognomen next year. Joseph or Doc and his charming wife, Gloria, are blessed with four children Debra, Joseph, Robert and Richard. 
This summer was not a good one for me as I had the disheartening task of informing Michael DeCicco, fencing coach, that Doug Gemmell '72, captain-elect of the 1971-72 basketball team suffered a terrible accident resulting in a bad fracture of both his tibia and fibula. Douglas will be back I hope. It was wonderful to hear from Doug about the ND family in my hospital visits. 
May I take this time to thank Coach JOSEPH YONTO '48, our exceHent assistant football coach, for advising my son, Vincent, during his visit last June. Coach, your counselling and St. Benedict's coach Gene Schiller's expert teaching are coming to the fore. 
Hoping to hear from all. Go, Irish! 
Diamond Commisa Jamestown Apts., Apt. 27A 221 Harrison St. Nutley, NJ. 07110 
'47 CHAPLAIN 21.0%* 
REV. JOHN VANDENBOSSCHE CSC, 
who has spent the past year as chaplain of 
Holy Cross Junior College at ND, and in 
graduate study at the University, is to be 
chaplain for the next year in the Newman 
Center at the San Bernardino Valley Junior 
College in the Diocese of San Diego. He 
will live in the nearby parish of Immaculate 
Conception where he will serve as assistant 
pastor on Sunday. His address is 1090 La 
Cadena Drive, Colton, Calif. 92324. 
Had a nice note from SAM ADELO, he 
said he was happy to see the Class of '47's 
column revived, said the column has 
appeared and disappeared. He is living in 
San Juan now as counsel for Gulf companies 
which operate in Puerto Rico. Before his 
transfer there in JiJy, he was on the staff 
of the law department of Gulf Oil Company 

—Latin America for four years with head­
quarters in Coral Gables, Fla. He has had 
the opportunity in his law career to travel 

to many foreign countries where he has 
had the pleasure of keeping many friend­
ships that were formed while he was an 
undergraduate and law student at ND. 
Well, that is all for this month, but please 

keep the news coming, and keep in mind 
the 25th reunion next year. We all have to 
get together for that one. 
Sincerely, 

James J. Shea 
35 Liberty Terrace 
Ashley, Pa. 18705 
'48 NEWS NEEDED 22.4%* 
I know you have been anxiously awaiting this column which has missed the last few issues but due to lack of information or enough of it, I preferred to skip rather than have a short writeup. So those of you who have been thoughtful enough to send some material, this is your moment to be high­lighted. 
BILL SIEBERT was elected to the position of controller-treasurer in Stevens Point, Wis., last April. He had been con­troller since 1961 but in the last election the job was made controller-treasurer so now he is in charge of tax collections and is custodian of city funds. CHARLES V. OWENS Jr. has been elected vice president of the Professional Products Group of Miles Laboratories Inc. in Elkhart, Ind. BRUCE 
E. HILL, VP of marketing for the Olin Corp., Chemicals Division, has been gradu­ated from the advanced management pro­gram at Harvard U. Graduate School of Business Administration. 
We were indeed sorry to hear about the May 21 death of PATTRIXLER, BSC '48, who was living in Huntington. Ind;' 
Had a communication from GENE. LA FAVE who is out in El Cajon, Calif^, with the Input/Output Company. Gene makes a noteworthy suggestion of having a Class Reunion in California or New "Jersey. 
JIM DRONEY had remarried and thereby increased the size of his fampy twofold. He and his wife Lois now have jJ'sons. Jim is president of the Mt. Lebanon Ofiice Equipment Co. in suburban Pittsburgh.-' BILL GRIFFIN, now a prosperoiis architect in Bridgeport, Conn, attended Jim's, wedding since they were roommates in '42. ED McBRIDE a Miami attorney, and his brother ART have developed a cablevision system in Miami. They also have interest in some shopping centers and Art is VP of the Yellow Cab Co. in Cleveland. 
Had a nice letter from Fernando Luiz Magno de Carvalho who was in the College of Science and is now teaching in a high school in Rio de Janeiro. He would like to hear from some of his old friends from ND and invites anyone down Rio way to visit him at his new address: Rua Barata Ribeiro No. 611. Apt. 803, Copacabana, Rio de Janeiro, Guanabara, Brazil. Back in 1948 Fernando said he could have never 
believed that ND would some day be a coed university. That goes for a lot of us and probably would have been the most acceptable change compared to everything else going on! 
LEO COSTELLO took in the Southern California game and brought along a portion of the family for the tailgate lunch and view of the campus. FRANK TRIPUCKA has two sons who were winners in the Ford "Pass-Punt-Kick" contest in their respective 
age groups in local competition. The older boy was in the national finals last year in New Orleans between the halves of the Pro Bowl. BOB TAYLOR is on his way to recovep' after a recent illness per TOM to critics, Alumni and friends of ND who wonder "what's going on out there at ND?" One other thought, first read Father Ted's HERBERT. I guess this is about it for now. Cannot write a column without any news, so I look forward to hearing from you. 
George J. Keenan 177 Rolling HHls Rd. CUfton. NJ . 07013 
'49 CLASSIC ANSWER 23.0%* 
I know that many of you read the ALU.MNUS magazine, or at least this portion on occasion: But how often do you take a good look at Insight: Notre Dame? The reason I ask is that I would like to point out an article in the summer '71 issue titled "Notre Dame—How Catholic Is It?" written by JAMES T. BURTCHAELL CSC the provost of the school. It's a classic answer commentary on page 2. It leads quite naturally to this very real analysis by Fr. Burtchaell. 
My Tom, Paul and Peggy are showing numerous signs of a mounting anxiety as they almost daily remind (at this writing) me that the Southern Cal game is next month. It will be history by this reading and we shall still be licking our chops, as the perfect season unfolds. 
Now for class news. U.S. Air Force Lt. Col. RICHARD J. BUSTIN has assumed command of the 100th Field Maintenance Squadron at Davis Monthan AFB, Ariz. (I spent a little time there in a B-24 many long years ago.) He and his wife, the former Betty J. Munn, have three children: Joseph (17), Jame (16) and Michael (14). 
Someone will have to check me as to how "new" this item really is, but I received a note undated informing me that LEWIS J. SHIOLENO was named president of MEPCO Inc., a subsidiary of North­american Philips Corp. Mepco produces metal film, carbon film, wire and power resistors, miniature capacitors and hybrid 
• integrated circuits. Lew? Is this current information? (No pun intended.) 
DR. ALBERT \y. BERGSTAHLEN, who is professor of origahic chemistry at the U. of Kansas, recently presented a report against fluoridation to the city council of Cincinr nati, Ohio. Al is president of the' Inter­national Society for Fluorine Research. I don't have an identifying date on this item, either, but a memo was passed along to me 
'Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of Sept. 30, 1971. 
saying that Rev. ALFRED F. D'ALONZO 
CSC '49 was appointed dean of students at 
King's College, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. to fill the 
post left vacant by the death of Rev. Tom 
Sheehy CSC. 
FRANCIS E. GAUL has been named a 

councilman in Cleveland, Ohio, to succeed 
James V. Staunton who was elected to 
Congress. Frank, who was a varsity tackle 
at ND in 1947 and 1948, is a trucking firm 
executive. He lives at 17119 Ernadale Ave. 
in Cleveland and is a founder member of 
the Don Bosco Guild, a big brother 
organization. 
Well, Gents, I've done it again. The mail 

bag is empty; I've used every bit of news 
data at my command. Football season 
usually promotes some class contacts. Write 
me about games you've seen and class­
mates who crossed your path. 1 surely can 
use some Help! 
I received (or more correctly, Joan and 

I received) congratulatory notes from Rev. 
BILL NEIDHART CSC and BILL 
BROCKHOFF on the birth of Dan Wesley 
in April. Fr. Bill says he plans to visit us 
next summer to supervise Dan's training 
table and backyard "workouts." Brockhoff 
also looked into the future, saying "Some­
day you will experience the thrill and joy 
that is mine this week as our son, John, 
begins college life at Notre Dame. Further­
more, 1 cannot agree with any of our 
Alumni who say that ND has 'gone to the 
dogs.' There is far more good here than 
bad." Well said, Billy boy! 
My final piece of mail came from the 

Alumni Office and announced that Dr. 
ALBERT J. MOTZEL of Waukesha, Wis., 
has been named director of medical edu­
cation at Waukesha Memorial Hospital. Dr. 
Motzel is a graduate of St. Louis U. 
Medical School and has been on the 
hospital's medical staff since 1958. He will 
maintain his private practice in the field 
of general surgery on a. part-time basis. 
All that remains to me is to thank all who contributed in large and small effort toward my pleasure in assembling this news corner. The year of 1971 has been a fruitful one with many new correspondents. But my needs never wane. Please make a promise to yourself to write just once to your class secretary in 1972. What a year we '49ers could have! All the Wesleys wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. 
Leo L. Wesley 
155 Driftwood Lane 
Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
'50 LETfERS APPRECIATED 23.9%' 
Here's hoping that you have all had a good summer and are having a fine fall. I ap­preciate the letters that have been written so that we can have some information in the column and would encourage the rest of you to please do so for me. 
JOE SCHEIDLER has been appointed director of public information for the Chicago Commission on Human Relations. He is married to the former Ann M. Crowley and has three sons, Eric, Joseph and Peter. WILLIAM D. GORDON and family, including daughter, Mary Susan, are now in Carson City, Nev. 
Edie and BILL O'CONNELL's Mike, TOM and Marge O'GRADY's Margaret and Kathy, DICK, and Lee KLEE's Mary Beth and Rick, and Mary Pat and my son John and Jane have returned to ND this fall under the newly integrated University, now colloquially known as the East and West campuses. I did not realize until this summer when Mary Pat and I visited the Church of the Sacred Heart of Notre Dame ihUe Mails;' France, that this' 1971 inte­gration of SMC and ND is really a revival of the way it all started from the beginning. 
We visited Father Henri Jambon CSC, rector of the Sacred Heart Church of Notre Dame in Le Mans, France, and he gave us a fine tour of the church and facilities, explaining that the Holy Cross Order is divided into three branches, the French, the Canadian, and American, and one can see the stained-glass windows in the Church over one side altar represented a ND graduate in cap and gown with Our Lady on the Dome in the background along with priests and nuns representing our campuses (East and West); stained glass over the main altar representing the Canadian branch and over the other side altar representing the French branch. 
In the same church there are other stained-glass windows of nuns, whom SMC girls would recognize, as well as of Father Moreau and Brother DuJarfe. When talking with Father Jambon and seeing all of the unity of N.D. and S.M.C. in this church where the Holy Cross Order was founded for both nuns, priests and brothers, before they sent any missionaries to America, one realizes that they were unified from the beginning and that this year's agreement between SMC and ND is another step in the progress of the order. 
Mary Pat and 1 were walking along the side of the Notre Dame Cathedral, which is on an island in the Seine River, downtown Paris, and who should be sitting there in this beautiful park on the island but Prof. Joe Evans, now Dr. Evans, who taught most of us philosophic psychology. He was spending much of the summer on the "Left Bank" translating from French to English many French philosophers' works. He spoke of old friends Vince Cunningham, Armand D'Agostino and John Evans, among others. Joe invites us to drop in and see him on the Seventh Floor of the Library at any time. 
TOM and MARY ANN WEITHERS at­tended the Defense Research Institute and the International Association of Insurance Counsels' meetings in Washington, D.C. We had a wonderful visit and it was a pleasure to sit down next to Tom at the same dis­cussion tables. We saw MARTY and Joyce O'CONNOR at Marco Island near Naples, Fl., with their fine family. You will recall Marty contracted polio when he was a basketball coach at ND, and then gradu­ated from ND Law School with GEORGE SULLIVAN and myself: He is living in Sarasota as the president of a seafood corporation and has the same great family that he had in Vetville. 
We received a nice note from Joyce and CHUCK BAIER (Vetville, Apt. 22 and former Mayor) Westminster, Colo., as well as from JACK and Mary McHALE, Wash­ington, D.C, ED and Barb KELLY, Chicaeo, FR. KUNKEL. Huntsville, Ark., ROD and Sarah FORBES. College Park, Md., JACK DOYLE in Birmingham, Mich., Gloria and JOHN FERRY; and last but not least Rosemary and her famous travel­tour-to-the-games husband ED FOLEY. DON and Fran BUSECK and their family are doing well in Erie, Pa. DICK COLA­SURD pays us a visit from time to time. He is General Counsel of the American Flint Glass Workers' Union, still lives in Toledo and from time to time sees JOHN',. PETRIKOWSKI. 
STAN STEVENS writes: "In 1960,:we'' moved from South Bend to Niles, lll.;when 1 went to work for the Intematidiial Division of SKIL Corp. In .1966-67 I was transferred to Australia (along with my wife and two sons) tO:start up their Australian subsidiary and returned as SKIL's international marketing director. In October 1969 I became the director of sales 
- and marketing for the International Division —Gases and Related Products Group of Chemetron Corporation. Incidentally, my family name has been legally changed form 'Tsalikis' to 'Stevens'." 
DICK FITZGERALD has the Fitzgerald 
Real Estate Company, Aspen, Colo, and 
has a complete rundown on ranches, 
acreage, building sites, houses, condo­
miniums, businesses, etc. 
RAY SULLIVAN writes from Mount Mercy College, Cedar Rapids, la.: "My wife Mary and I keep busy feeding and educating our six. I am now business manager here at Mount Mercy College in Cedar Rapids. My activities other than those at the college pretty much center around music and church. I am in our St. Jude's Choir and plan to rejoin the Barber­shop Chorus here as soon as time •will allow. I am lector at church and will be teaching CCD this fall. I am also a member of our Catholic Layman's Club here. I feel very sorry for people like yourself when you have no copy. It's a little like throwing a party and no guests show up." 
Nice note from DICK CORDASCO, who was selected ND Man-of-the-Year by the ND Club of Jersey Shore and handles the State of New Jersey for Economic Develop­ment Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, with offices in Trenton. Dick's boss is Bob Podesta, Assistant Secretary of Commerce, who has three daughters graduated from SMC and married to ND men. 
DAVE ROBINSON is President of RO.MO Photo Labs in St. Petersburg, Fla. ROBERT E. WELSH has been named general manager of the Foam Division of Scott Paper Company, Philadelphia. WILLIAM HOPKE, Jr. has been elected to the Advisory Board of Woodlawn National Bank, Grovetown. Va. ALLAN LANDOLT has been appointed by Gov. Richard Ogilvie as director of the Illinois Department of Aeronautics. JOHN MEN­DENHALL, a partner with Arthur Ander­sen and Company, Washington, D.C, was a recent speaker at a meeting of the State Planning Council of Chattanooga, Tenn. John is in charge of his company's Wash­ington Tax Department. 
Our prayers to Marie MOULTON and family. Her late husband, WALTER, was a partner in Beaudin-Moultin Associates of Winooski, Buriington, Vt., an architectural and site-planning firm. He was a member of the Vermont Chapter of the American 
A. B. (Gus) Cifelii 
Institute of Architects, and he and Marie 
(St. Maty-of-the-Woods '50) had the 
blessing of six daughters. 
JACK SANFORD reports from Oxon Hill, Md.: "Right now I am a systems engineer and technical advisor on the Department of Army Staff in the Pentagon, Washington, D.C. Having resumed graduate school I'm nearing completion of my M.S. degree in operations research with a hopeful eye toward the Ph.D. The golf is down in the low 80's now. Perhaps JIM CREAMER is interested in taking me on now. My home is open to all men passing through the D.C area. Just give a call." 
May God bless you all. 
John W. Thornton 4400 Monserrate St. Coral Gables, Fla. 33146 
Corey Sheridan Ghiglieri 
Bartlett Finney Noonan 
Paul A. Corey '49 has been appointed director of personnel for the state of Ohio. In that position he administers the state's program for 57,000 employees. Prior to his appointment he was clerk of the board of the Cuyahoga County Commissioners in Cleveland. He was a teacher in the Cleveland schools from 1950 to 1961. 
Thomas R. Sheridan '50, who received an M.S.E.E. in 1957 at the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, has been appointed manager of data communications systems at RCA's Government Communications Sys­tems, Camden, N.J. Sheridan is a recipient of the RCA Achievement Award. 
lames P. Ghiglieri '51, president of the Citizens National Bank of Toluca, III., has been elected second vice president of the Illinois Bank­ers Association. Active in the affairs of the association since 1953, Ghiglieri has served on a number of its committees and has served as a group officer. 
James J. Bartlett '52 is now manager—finance and production—at the Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory, Schenectady, N.Y., which is oper­ated by the General Electric Co. for the U.S. Atomic Energy Com­mission. Bartlett, his wife, Betty and their two sons live in Schenectady. 
Robert G. Finney '53 has been named president of Teleprocessing In­dustries, a subsidiary of Western Union Corp., New York, N.Y. His most recent assignment was as vice president of the Western Union Telegraph Company's planning and engineering operation in Mahwah, 
N.J. Finney and his wife have five children. They live in Franklin Lakes, N.J. 
William F. Noonan '54 has been appointed general manager of the New York ofiice of Burson-Marsteller, international public relations company. He joined the firm in 1961 and became a group vice presi­dent last year. With his wife and four children, he resides in West­field, N.J. 
'51 KELLVS POEM 26.6%* 
JOE EUSTERMAN sent this epistle from his ofiice at 1040 W. 7th Ave., Albany, Ore. 97321: "It was great to read in the ND ALUMNUS the names of many of my old pre-med classmates who were reunion 71 attendees. Please remember me tfirough your colunm to the following great guys whom I remember with fondness and grati­tude: BILL ANHUT, PATRICK: J. BAR­RETT, JACK BOEHM, LEO BRENNAN, FRANK CROVO, CHUCK DESCH, BILL HARTY, BUD HERR, MIKE JACOBS, RANDY McNALLY, TOM MEYER, JOE INSLEY, VINCE STE MARIE, NICK SCALERA, DON SONDAG, HOBE TAYLOR. 
"Sorry I was too busy building a new medical complex and luring new doctors to this fine city plus many duties such as chief of medicine for the local hospital and vice president of the Oregon Medical Associa­tion, to attend the reunion. I definitely plan to make the silver reunion in 1976 and hope to see all of the above fellows and more at that time. 
"Of course would be very happy to have any of tlie guys visit if they are ever out in this great Pacific Northwest for any reason." 
JIM HENNESSY sent this poem, which Jim promised to read for BILL KELLY at the Class meeting—which didn't meet. 
TO THE CLASS OF 1951 
Greetings to all oj my jriends of old. 
Whose stories of success are being told. 
By every one of you that's there. 
Though you have much or lack of hair. 
It's Reunion Time at Notre Dame, 
And you know it won't be the same, 
fVithout Kelly, the Wit, from Louisville, 
Whom you know by the rmme of Bill. 
In Cincinnati he is today.
Attending a convention that is not so gay.
Office product dealers from five large 
states. 

Have met there to discuss their loves 
and hates. 

So please think of me when you raise 
your glass.

To recall old times of this famous class. 
Good Luck, I wish to everyone.
May your reunion be mucfi fun. 
Bill Kelly 'SI 

Thanks to Jim, Bill, Joe and the Xerox machine for meeting this deadline. 
Congratulations and many aspirins are due CHARLIE O'DONNELL, who is now in charge of the price freeze problems at Sears. JACK BECKER is now with the leasing subsidiary of B. C. Ziegler & Co., in West Bend, Wis. Jack is still commuting; he expects to move the family in 1972. Hate to lose such a good member but we're sure he can activate a branch of the poker club in the environs of Milwaukee. JIM LACESA is now chief engineer for Bachi, Inc., in Chicago. 
At the ND-So. Cal. game, saw FRANK MULLER and Maureen, JACK MUL­DOON, BUD O'BRIEN, JIM HENNESY, JIM FRICK, and PHIL FACCENDA and Kathy. All were fine and their families in good health. 
JACK HARNETT reports he has been with A. E. Staley in Decatur for a year and a half now, specializing in patent and food laws. The four girls are fine, but Jack did ask for prayers for his wife Muriel, who has a recurrence of a health problem. Please do your best. 
Send a card to your old secretary at a new address. 
Jim Jennings 600 N. Franklin SL Hinsdale, lU. 60521 
'Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of Sept. 30, 1971. 
'52 THIN MAILS AG 22.8%* 
The mailbag is extra thin this trip. Every­one must be getting off vacation and settling down to the routines for another year. If you visited any '52ers this year, drop us a line and let us know about it. 
CHARLES V. FALKENBERG Jr., now practicing law at the famous address of 10 
S. La Salle St. in Chicago, recently was elected president of the Chicago Alumni Club and that takes a lot of doing. On July 30, Chuck welcomed Elizabeth Jeanne to the house which put the odds in favor of the girls five to four around the Falkenberg household. He says he sees RUDY UNGER 
William V. Cuddy 

quite often in the Chicago area. Rudy is still reporting for The Chicago Tribune and his by-line appears on a regular basis. Chuck also received a visit from HANK BOLLING and his wife who are living in Buffalo. They were in Chicago for a meeting of the Retreat League. Chuck played golf with TOM DURAND at a recent Chicago Alumni Club affair. Tom is a great golfer who shoots in the 70's and is rarely caught cheating. 
TOM DEVINE is still selling real estate in Chicago and longing for the big sale to make his bundle. 
BILL SANTINI writes from Kittanning, Pa., that he is president of Phoenix Materials Corp. He seems to be generating a great deal of calluses and work which is good for the soul, Billy-boy. He and MATT DUGGAN were scheduled to attend Southern Cal game and are planning on the great reunion come June '72. 
JOE CELUSNIAK is now romancing out of Monterey, Calif. He sent some beautiful pictures of his boats and companions. Joe has decided to play it straight and rejoin the establishment. 
DR. ARTHUR A. SCHULTE Jr. has been named executive vice president of the 
U. of Portland, Portland, Oregon. 
Gents, that's all for now. Please write and let me know what you're doing before I start telling all kinds of stories. 
William B. King 613 E. Donmoyer Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46614 
'53 MISSES TICKLER 27.8%* 
Through inadvertence, I neglected to pro­vide materials for the October publication of the magazine. The "tickler" from the Alumni Office escaped my attention. Sorry about that. 
The contribution to the column by you, the membership, is great. Keep up the good work. From JOE PEGLIERI of Chicago we have, with very little paraphrasing, his letter in detail: 
"Like most of us, I always enjoy reading about classmates but have not been a contributor of the column. Hope this will rectify that failure to an extent. A few months ago we attended a formal dress, surprise 40th birthday party for BOB LEE hosted by Bob's wife and by TOM MORSCH. Bob was completely taken un­awares and thoroughly enjoyed the affair attended by many of our resplendent class­mates—TOM REEDY, LOU BOUR­JAILLY, TOM McNAMARA, DAVE McELVAlN, FATHER ERNIE BARTELL (who came in from ND), BOB McKENNA, JIM GEAREN, PAT MONTROY and DAN JAMES. 
"UND Night was held at the newly reopened McCormick Place and our class was well represented to see PAT MON­TROY retire as president of the Chicago Club. JIM MALOOLY, who handles the diverse real estate interests of the Cuneo estate, was there; also, BILL READY, who is still with IBM, but now located in Chicago after some years in the East; AL HANEY, partner in a Chicago law firm;and JIM BLACKBURN, oflicer of a paper container company. 
"FRED TADROWSKI has his own appraisal company with offices on LaSalle Street. Had lunch with CHARLEY BILLERBECK, not having seen him for many years. Charley heads a technical marketing division of Standard Oil and travels the world. He reports that Fr. MIKE McKINSTRA is being assigned from Freeport, 111., to the Woodstock area (closer to Chicago), very shortly. See JIM GAL­LAGHER every now and then through business contacts; Jim is a principal in an asphalt paving company. Saw DICK HARVEY after one of the games last year and tipped a few downstairs in the Morris Inn. Dick has his own business and also does some traveling. Saw JIM WILCOX at the opening of Ernst & Ernst's new offices in Chicago; Jim is an officer and principal in a nursing home management corporation. Also saw BRYAN COUGH­LIN at that reception; Bryan is chief ac­counting officer of the Midwest Stock Exchange. 
"Had dinner recently with JACK MIL­LIGAN, BOB McKENNA and Al Crowley; Al was with us for our first two years at ND, but left then for his dentistry studies at Loyola U. and is now a practicing den'tist in Deerfield; Bob is executive vice president of ILG Industries and Jack is treasurer of Burton-Dixie Corp. I saw JIM (Luke) MOORE at a wake recently and it was the first time I'd seen him in probably 15 years; he is in marketing as an officer of a national company. I asked Luke if he heard from JACK MANIX but he said it had been quite a while since he had and as far as he knew. Jack was still on the West Coast. 
"I did enjoy dinner with FRANK (Buck) O'CONNOR, our wives, and another couple in New York last year; Buck is an officer of one of the large banks in Manhattan. 
"I see DAVE McBRIDE occasionally; he is a partner in a law firm and a highly respected authority in zoning matters (I know because he represented a venture I was part of on a sticky suburban zoning petition and he was persuasively successful for us). JERRY O'CONNOR is a builder and real estate developer, with offices in the northern suburbs. JIM CELANO is also in the real estate business with one of the nation's largest real estate firms. 
"That should hold you for a while." Joe is a Chicago mortgage banker with O'Brien & Pain, Inc. Thanks a milUon, Joe. 
REV. ERNIE BARTELL has been ap­pointed president of Spring Hill College, Mass., a Holy Cross institution. BILL KEANE has taken a two-year leave of absence from his position as an accounting professor to join Price-Waterhouse in New York. He apparently will be with JIM KLINGE in New York. The Alumni Office reports that the U.S. Senate has confirmed the promotion of LOUIS N. CAVA­NAUGH JR. to a Class 4, Foreign Service Officer. He has been in the foreign service since 1960 and is now stationed in Kuching, Malaysia. How about that, Louie? 
The great JAMES C. ROGERS of the "Twin Cities" Rogers provides the following letter, which unfortunately doesn't indicate that he will be at the reunion in 1973. Jim, can we count on you? 
"I have been reading your comments regarding our class in the alumni news for the past few months and I am only soriy that I have not responded sooner. I will try to convey to you some of our fellow class­mates who are in this area. 
"JOE O'NEILL is a practicing lawyer and also one of our state senators. He's also on the ND National Alumni Board of Directors. He is married in the traditional Notre Dame spirit and has eight children. BILL ROGERS Jr., my cousin, is with another insurance agency and is doing very well. BOB GLEASON is still travelling in Wisconsin and Illinois and is selling as a manufacturer's representative sporting goods. CHUCK RITTEN is owner of Louis 
N. Ritten Co., grain brokers, and is cur­rently in their office in Chicago. 
"PAUL GABLER is sales manager for Foley Manufacturing in Minneapolis. DAVE KENNEDY is a lawyer and is top man with the League of Municipalities. BOB KELLY is with the Kelly Furniture Co. in Winona. Most of the peojrfe I see quite often. All are married with three or more children and are in professions and are community leaders. 
"I am owner of an insurance agency here in St. Paul with many extracurricular activities in the promotion fine and am also a scout with the Montreal Canadiens. Trust this will bring you up to date about some of the fellows in this area." 
Thanks Jim very much and say hello to 
«»> Joseph L. Pagliari 
•all of the boys from "The Cities." Do you ever see RAY DIETRIECH? 
BOB DREY writes from Des Moines, 
la. that he is the partner in a law firm,
married and has three children. He oc­
casionally sees JIM HIGGINS of our class 
of Kansas City fame. Higgins was always 
going to bless us with some information 
respecting his activities. We keep getting 
reports of peoide that see him in Kansas 
City so he must be up and around. 
I also take the liberty to provide the 
information sent along by JOHN CLARK, 
from 830 Hudson Road, in Glenview, 111.: 
"I occasionally see AL and JERRY 
ELLSWORTH. Jerry, some few years ago, 
became chief financial oflicer of C. F. 
Murphy & Associates, the largest archi­
tectural firm in Chicago. BOB MUNNS 
is in the plastics business and now lives in 
Leominster, Mass. As for me, we have six 
children and live at the above address. I 
recently moved my manufacturing company 
to Northbrook at 1825 Holste Road. We 
manufacture and repair extrusion equip­
ment. We also have another company. 
Plastics & Equipment Sales. PHIL 
CLEMENS is also in the jdastics business, 
as is JIM PFOHL, Phil in Fort Wayne and 
Jim in Long Island City. Along with ART 
MEDILLI, we comprise a firm foundation 
in the growing plastics world." To you 
gentlemen in plastics, we extend our sincere 
congratulations. Are there any butter and 
egg barons out there? 
The end of August, I was at the Mayo Clinic to pick up my father-in-law (BOB MAHOWALD's dad) and stopped by Winona, Minn, to use the telei^one. Ran 
into JOHN J. O'CONNER, who is in the 
furniture business. The coincidence was 

additionally rewarded with a good visiL He 
appears in good health. He promised to 
write to the column someday too. 

ROLAND GRABELLE's letter of Aug. 
30, 1971, is completed in full: 
"Dear John: 

"Upon reading your column in the August 
issue of the NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS, I was 
dismayed to find, what I consider, a very 
inaccurate reporting on my activities as 

mentioned to you in my letter of April 29, 
1971. I do not understand your reference 
to my functioning as a 'financial architect' 
and as you say in brackets 'his words.' The 
service of Grabelle and Company, which is 
financial designing, is registered in the state 
of Illinois and California as a unique 

service mart and service. This is our main 
business, and as I mentioned to you, I am 
also a general agent for Mutual Trust Life 
Insurance Company of Chicago, NOT an 
agent as you so indicated. There is a vast 
difference. My function as president and 
owner of the Grabelle and Company is 

primarily to provide asset accumulation and 
distribution programming, as 1 indicated 

in my letter, and secondarily, we are general 
agents for Mutual Trust Life Insurance 
Company. 

"You report that 1 anticipate opening a 
London Office soon. I did not indicate 

soon, I merely stated that we are planning 
to open an office (for your information) 
as a subsidiary of Grabelle and Company. 
"You also indicated that numbered 
among my clients is Forrest Tucker who, 

as you say, 'apparently' has been utilizing 
my service for years. I resent the inference 
of the word 'apparent' and do not feel 

that anything that I write you has to be 
authenticated or verified by a notary public. 
However, to satisfy you, I am enclosing a 
copy of the photograph of Forrest Tucker 
and myself, which was printed in the 
Chicago Tribune newspaper. 

"You also indicate that I am a partner in the Arlington Park Theatre, which is correct, but which you refer to as a portion of the Chicago Park Race Track in Arlington Heights; this is completely inaccurate since it is, as I indicated, at the Arlington Park Race Track. I clearly stated that we were having Joan Fontaine as our first star and mentioned nothing about having Vincent Price, Mickey Rooney, or Betty Grable for the Grand Opening, as you so reported. As you can read, from my letter, I said 'hoping to have name performers such as the forementioned stars in the near future.' 
"In summary, John, I resent the in­ferences of the validity of some of my statements and your inaccurate reports and subtle allocations. You state that there are limitations of space yet you seem to be able to find more space than was allocated to your report on me for other alumni. I really do not care how much space I get, but I at least expect to have all the facts as relayed to you printed accurately. 
"I expect that you will print a retraction and correction of your article on my activities as soon as possible. Correct me if I am wrong, but I am under the impres­sion that your job is to relay the facts that are sent to you by the alumni of the class of 1953 via the NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS magazine without any personal interpreta­tions." 
The sequel, dated September 2, 1971: 

"With reference to Mr. Grabelle's letter dated Aug. 30. There is an inaccuracy in the second paragraph on the second page. I wrongly interpreted allegations as alloca­tion, which more than changed the meaning of the sentence. 
"This letter was signed by myself as secretary in Mr. Grabelle's absence and the mistake has been brought to my attention on his return to Chicago this morning. 
"I apologize for any confusion caused 
by my error." 
As we say in the law, res ipsa loquitur. 
For the price of a first-class stamp, this 
"job" can be had by anyone that wants it, 
including Roland GrabeUe or his secretary. 
I pay for the postage, and my law firm 
provides the logistic assistance. I get no 
money and want no money. I sit low down 
in the end zone at the football games and 
high up above the basket at the basketball 
games. 
Late flash: DAN COLLINS, M.D., 
reports that FATHER GORSKI is back on 
the campus. This will be confirmed by the 
next column. 
John T. Mulvihill 
645 First Bank Building 
South Bend, Ind. 46601 
'54 UNDEFEATED? 28.2%* 
As I write this column, with the usual lack 
of material, it's preseason and the forecasts 
for N D are glowing, to say the least. By 
the time this is published we'll be fast 
approaching our deadline with LSU in 
their snake pit and hopefully we'll be un­
defeated. The annual reunion party was 
another great affair. The first one I missed 
since we started them in 1962 or 1963. If 
you plan to make the LSU game be sure 
to look up DICK LYONS and have a quick 
drink before the game. 
Another regular reunion partygoer who's moved is JIM (The Bern) BERNHART to 3411 Monterey, San Mateo, Calif. 94401. Also noticed that GEORGE (Gapper) PFLAUM has left Dayton for La JoUa, Calif. I must say, after being here in New England for a little over a month now that this is a great place to live. The only disadvantages are the high taxes, the crazy drivers and the distance from ND football. We love it so far though and welcome calls and visits. How about a postcard from DAVE DEVLIN (Close enough to paint the mural you promised in 1951?) GEORGE KOLASA, DON PENZA, BOB STANTON, FOSTER PACKARD, JOE AZAR, VAL­CHUN and VINCE RAYMOND? Hey! Want to have some fun? Take out your 1954 Dome and leaf through it. There's a great picture (page 220) of FRANK VARRICHIONE on his back saving the Iowa game. As I recall BENGIE SCHRADER helped just before the game ended with his clock-stopping injury. 
JOE LEASER, Hummelstown, Pa., has a rotating internship at Harrisburg Hospital. He was a National Institute of Health Fellow at Pennsylvania and graduated from the Hershey Medical Center at Penn State. Two letters since last article: Lieut. Col. CHARLIE (Beautiful, Chariie!) SPICKA is enjoying his tour at the Penta­gon, managing to take in all the sites between trips to Hawaii, Canada and ND. Yerna. his better half, is working towards her M.A. in dramatics at Catholic U. If all went as planned. Charlie and FRANK (Hooks) WISNIEWSKI made it to the Northwestern game and the party after­wards. 
Had a great letter from BOB McGLYNN, 4251 Alder Brook S.E., Salem, Ore. 97302. Bob and his bride, the former Betty Foley SMC, have three children, Beth (16), Maureen (15) and John(13). Bob studied hospital administration at U. of Minnesota and since then has been administering at hospitals in South Bend. St. Louis (taught two yrs. at St. Louis U.), Fresno, Calif.; Pullman, Wash., and Salem, Ore. In 1970 he assumed his present job with the State of Oregon as assistant superintendent of three mental hospitals. Well, gentlemen, that concludes this article. Write if you find work. 
Milton J. Beaudine 
6 Russet Lane 
Andover, Mass. 01810 '55 BUSY IN VIENNA 25.8%* 

I knew it couldn't be true that DICK 
REAMER was back in St. Louis, and sho 
nuff, he wrote to say that he has a very 
large psychiatry practice in Vienna and that 
he also is a member of the Psychosomatic 
Department of the University Clinic. 
Although busy in Vienna, Dick manages 
to hit the convention trail—Brussels, Rome, 
Madrid, London and Mexico City. "Took 
my vacations in the fall in '69 and '70 and 
got to campus for ball games both times. 
Had good weather and big ND wins. Ah, 
nostalgia! Both the buildings and the kids 
seemed bigger." 
Dick adds that he is on the board of 

both the American and Irish societies in 
Vienna "and did my damdest to get a good 
turnout for the ND Glee Club last June." 
Dick says the welcome mat is out for 
anyone making the European circuit—^home 
address is Altgasse 25-5, Vienna, Austria, 
1130. His phone is 82-78-394. 
FRANK MAIER has been named Chicago bureau chief for Newsweek. Frank has six years' experience covering Chicago, first with the Daily News and since 1970 with Newsweek. He is responsible for the magazine's coverage in 10 Midwestern states. Among the assignments that Frank remembers best are his coverage of the Texas Tower sniper and an 18-month investigation of a major Chicago park scandal that resulted in the indictment and conviction of six park officials, and which also won him the Chicago Stick-0-Type award in 1968. Frank credits all his success to his wife, Ginny. (I had to put that in because a reporter from their local paper listed their four children and neglected to mention Ginny!) 
NEAL HALLORAN met LARRY BUCKLEY and his family while on vacation in North Carolina and reports that Larry's wife is delightful. Neal couldn't figure out how such a nice person could have put up with Larry all these years. 
Here are some new entries for your Christmas card list: CHARLIE BROAN, R.D., Prattsville, N.Y.; DICK MANNION, 2601 Greenacre Drive, Findlay, O.; FRANK DELL'APA 401 Talus Way, Reno; BILL GLASS, P. O. Box 313, Portage, Mich.; 
Geoi£e H. Shelton 

and DALE RENAULT, 35968 Ashton PL, 
Fremont, Calif. 
Dr. BILL TUNNELL is now assistant professor of surgery and chief of the section of pediatric surgery at the Louisiana State 
U. School of Medicine. His address is 1542 Tulane Ave., New Orleans. 
Dr. ED TOOMEY of Concord, Mass., writes that Dr. DON SANTSCHI of Home-wood, HI., has been named a fellow ot the American College of Physicians. At the same time, Ed was made a member of the college. Now if I knew the difference between a "fellow" and a "member" . . . Ed reports that his Elisa is now 5 and that Cynthia celebrated her first birthday in July. 
One of the Chicago Tribune's sports columnists wrote about the Baltimore Colt training table prior to the AU-Star game: "At lunch the desserts were waiting at the 
'Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of Sept. 30, 1971. 
table and if there were any weaklings who 
passed them up there was always some­
body waiting to pounce. DICK. SZYMAN­
SKI was the champion. He devoured six 
dishes of custard one noon-time." 
Stopped overnight in Milwaukee last 
week and watched JOHN McCULLOUGH 
report the 10 o'clock news. He's the anchor­
man for \VTMJ-TV, the city's No. 1 station. 
John does a smooth job, utilizing the new 
relaxed format to introduce his cohorts. 
Incidentally, while driving around town, I 
noted that JIM BARRY had his name on 
many industrial development sites. His 
real estate business must be going very well. 
On the same swing, I called TOM 
O'MALLEY in Kansas City, but his wife, 
Jackie, said he was still at the office. They 
enjoyed another Colorado vacation this 
summer. 
Other class members on the move include: 
BOB RUSSELL, 135 Ashdale. Los Angeles; 
RAY GENDRON, Stratford House, 150 
Overlook Ave., Hackensack, NJ.; JIM 
TWOHY, 1200 Madeira, S.E., Albuquerque; 
JIM CORCORAN, 929 Sheridan Rd., 
Evanston, 111.; and JACK GITS, 39 
Devonshire Dr., Oak Brook, III. 
TOM HAYES called to say that he had just received word of the death of TOM FINNEGAN. Our condolences to his widow, Sarah. 
PETE BEIRIGER writes to say that he and his family have moved from Los Angeles to the Pittsburgh area (108 Over­look Circle, Monroeville, Pa.) to work for a division of Westinghouse Electric. "Now that I am much closer to South Bend, I look forivard to the next reunion and perhaps some football weekends on campus." Pete, who has three children, has been in California since graduation. 
Speaking of football weekends and re­unions, Sandra said that BILL (Always on the Alert) McLAIN called to say that he had a problem. Seems that he ordered MSU tickets, thinking that it was our reunion weekend, despite the fact that each column carried a notice that USC was our rallying point this fall. We'll report next time on whether Bill made it to the real reunion— and on those who showed up. 
Paul Fullmer 
1922 Larkdalc Drive 
Glenview, 111. 60025 
'56 ASSIGNMENTS GIVEN 25.6%* 
There is a clear and present danger that I'm failing at this job. I had similar vibrations 38 semesters ago during freshman chemistry when "Happy Henry Hinton and his helpful household hints"—remember him?—zonked me for the only time in my academic life. 
Now the second coming of zap is ap­parently upon me. Here it is another column by your sterling class secretary— number two to be exact—and not a single letter or postcard from anyone. (Need I remind you that I once was considered popular by my peers, a status I'm obviously in danger of losing should things deteriorate any further.) The few bits and pieces of news I'm able to scrounge up come by way of the Alumni Office, last term's class officers or through my own peregrinations in and around New York City. 
Even the timing of this column has conspired against me. As I compose these very words the calendar says it's Sept. 12, a good six weeks before our reunion football game. What you're actually reading, how­ever, probably didn't arrive until sometime after Nov. 1, or at least a week or more aflcr the' Southern Cal weekend. TTie net result of such unfortunate scheduling is 
that I won't be able to get my typewriter 
around this juicy event for quite some time. 
And you won't be able to read about it 
much before Christmas. 
In the meantime I'll just sit here and 
wonder about all you guys out there who 
could (and should) be helping me get over 
the news-gathering hump. Let's see now— 
working geographically from right to left, 
there's ED COSGROVE in Buffalo to begin 
with. Ed's a great lawyer and knows how 
to track down leads. (Let's give him New 
York State for openers.) Besides, Ed's had 
plenty of experience in this sort of thing 
since his partner is last term's class secre­
tary, cigar-chomping GENE O'CONNOR. 
Moving into the New England area why 
don't we settle on Boston's JOHN 
O'CONNOR as our far-flung correspondent. 
He should be good for a spicy item or two 
now and then. 
Traveling south to Manhattan there's of course the Hippie and yours truly to get in touch with, and if anything of note is happening further south, say along the Mason-Dixon Line or below, there's always PETE CANNON and my good friend JOHN MURRAY who'll be happy to hear from you; they're both out of Washington, D.C. 
Moving rapidly along into our beloved Midwest and smack in the hotbed of ND news, Chicago, you might consider getting in touch with any one of the three JOHNs— MANNION, KEGLEY, CORBETT. Ready to add assistance, if necessary, are JIM REVORD and BOB (Benito) CARRANE. (One guy I'd love to hear from out there is ED KRUPKA, one of my freshman roommates.) 
At school, I think RON WEBER and DON SNIEGOWSKI ought to help out our class vice-president FRANK BEYTAGH, don't you agree? LEO LINBECK, being the great guy he is, has volunteered to blanket not only Texas but all of the Southwest. (The \Vhale is big enough to do it too.) 
So that leaves just the West Coast. At the June reunion another of our illustrious lawyer-classmates, TOM CREHAN, agreed, if I'm not mistaken, to handle the repor­torial chores all along the Pacific Coast. Guys like BERNIE ALLARD and ANGELO CAPOZZI, for example, might take a minute out of their busy days and drop Tom a line. It won't hurt, really. 
That's a pretty formidable line-up, I would think. So I'll expect to hear from a good many of you before my next deadline, Dec. 6. 
Actually, I do have a couple of interesting items to report. One involves RICHARD 
J. VAN MELE, who's just been elected assistant vice'president for governmental affairs of Associates Corporate Services Company, Inc. (a subsidiary of Associates Corporation of North America), right there in beautiful downtown South Bend. Dick, I was just informed, invited all fellow '56ers and their wives to a tremendous around­the-clock bash at his place following the Southern Cal game. He asked me to let all of you know about it, but I didn't do it. (If you guys won't write to me, I'm certainly not going to write to you—except only when I have to.) Dick, who received an 
M.B.A. and J.D. from Indiana U., joined his present firm last year as director-legis­lative research for the Indiana Legislative Council. (Good show, Dick. The Hoosiers really needed that.) 
I ran into LEE CROGHAN on the IRT subway a while back. After ND, Lee took a master's (or was it a Ph.D.?) at the Yale Drama School and he's now putting it to good use. He's teaching drama at Brooklyn College (or is it Hunter?—see how much good reporting help I need!), and living at 333 East 47th St. in New York if anyone would like to get in touch with him. (My address is listed below, if anyone would like to get in touch with me.) Lee, if anyone's interested, kept matrimony at bay until just a year ago, which is a tough thing to do when you pal around with Joe Namath all the time. Lee also reports that he sees a good deal of DON BROPHY, who writes for the Catholic Press in New York. (Naturally, I forget for which publication.) 
Speaking of bachelors, our final face in the news is none other than the Hippie himself, S. EDMUND RESCINI'H Jr. (He calls himself S. Edmund and not Silvio, 
because he's ashamed people will think he's Italian. What S. Edmund doesn't realize is that we wish he'd "rescind" his last name, so there'd be absolutely no mistake about it.) It seems that S. Edmund spent the entire month of August on the French Riviera. Biarritz to be exact (or was it St. Moritz?) S. Edmund reports that he didn't run into a single Notre Damer along the bikini-clad beaches, but he did run into quite a few bikinis. I'd tell you all about it but I know your wives read these columns. I'll show you the picture, however, at our next get-together—after which S. Edmund is going to rent out the slides for stag parties. Meantime, you'll just have to eat your hearts out, the way I did one night recently when S. Edmund burned my ears and my eyes until 3 a.m. 
Have a great Thanksgiving holiday, and 
keep the peace. 
Albert M. Parillo 
6 Brantwood Terrace 
Short Hills, NJ. 07078 
'57 NEBRASKA NEWS 27.6%* 
DAVE THOMPSON writes to give some info on '57 grads in the Midwest: RICHARD SHAFER is with Northern Natural Gas Co. He's the father of four children. ARTHUR KIDDOO, also the father of four, is with Western Chemical Co. in St. Joseph. Mo. JOHN GLENSKI is an engineer with Colgate in Kansas City. He and his wife are the parents of seven children. Dave is covering City Hall in Omaha for Nebraska's largest daily, the World Herald. 
ROBERT W. BOGG is now manager of market research at the Pontiac Motor Division, One Pontiac Plaza, Pontiac, Mich. 48053. ELMER KOHORST has become a member of the faculty of St. John's U., Collegeville, Minn., as physical education instructor. He has done postgraduate work at ND and at St. Cloud State College. JOHN W. HANNIGAN and family have returned from two years in Adelaide, Australia, and are now living at 33 Arbor Drive, P.O. Box 1268, Attleboro Falls, Mass. 
I am just recovering from the traumatic effects of the August wedding of sports fan PAT SHEERIN and his lovely bride, Carol. The ceremony was closed with singing of the Notre Dame Alma Mater which was an expected Pat Sheerin coup. 
August was filled with many parties for the newlyweds and topped off with a rousing stag at Johnny Lattner's Restaurant (where else?). Attending the many functions were classmates: BOB COYNE, BOB ECK­LAND, BOB CALABRESE, BILL 
WATSON, FRANK HENNESSEY, JIM 
CULLINAN, JIM MORTON, GUS 
SCIACQUA and RON PATOIZE. 

Best wishes to JACK D'ARCY, attorney and candidate for district attorney in Allegany County, New York. Jack sounds like he has all Uie qualifications for the job. Jack asks if anyone has heard from BRYAN ROSS and if so to let us know. 
JACK ROBINSON and wife, Marilyn, after their return from the Far East settled in New York only to have to pack up and settle in Houston with the move of ESSO's home offices. 
BILL McGOWAN tells me that old 
PFA'er ERNIE KLETZLY has become 
marketing officer with Great West Life in 
Columbus, Ohio. 

JOHN GIBBS, regional manager for BASF in Schiller Park, 111., writes that he met with BOB BOGG at GMC in Detroit and BILL LANDON is with us in Chicago at Bell and Howell. John visited with ELMER KOHORST in St Cloud, Minn., who is coaching at St. John's College, Minn. DON HANEY stopped by the Gibbs' and advised he is contract manager at American Slating. 
Last June I had an opportunity to meet with JOHN BRENNAN in St. Louis where he is now a senior VP in the banking divison of Boatmen's National Bank, John refused me a small loan to get back to Chicago but did pop for lunch and cock­taUs. HANK LUEPKE checks up with John once in a while and word is that Hank is still the biggest lawyer in St. Louis. 
MIKE HYLAND finally has reported in with a note. He really can write despite what some people say in Richmond, Va. about that sports writer for the News Leader. 
Mike tells us that ED STUBENVRAUCH is now in Bangkok for Union Carbide. JIM BRADY, with a Ph.D. under arm, is an economics prof at Old Dominion U. in Norfolk. CHARLEY McKENDRICK, attorney and counselor, made a most un­expected and welcome midnight call to Mike recently. 
Mike closes with a challenge to DENNY BUTT, CHARLEY WITTENBERG and BILL GRANT to show up at the reunion in June with plenty of hard cold cash for "a little game of chance." 
BILL McGOWAN "our man in South Bend" advised that we can be proud of the members of '57 now president or senator of their Alumni Clubs! LARRY BEDFORD, Dallas; BOB BOGG, Detroit; TOM COR­RIGAN, Cleveland; ERNIE KLETZY, Columbus, BOB LAKE, Michigan City; JIM MUNRO, Des Moines and DENNIS TURNOCK, Miami. 
LOU LONCARIC and family are return­ing to South Bend after many years in Atlanta. Lou is joining the Du Pont stock-brokerage firm in South Bend and he promised he would buy a home with grounds large enough to accommodate our class and friends after the home games. 
BOB MARCO has opened Bob Marco Buick and Opel in Houston. JIM O'LEARY is prof and chairman of the O. B. depart­ment at Loyola U. College of Medicine, Chicago. 
JOHN McMEEL, DENNY TROESTER, ED HEALY, LOU LONCARIC and your secretary will be meeting in January at ND to finalize arrangements for our class reunion in June, 1972. So set the time and money aside now. Let's make it big. If you have any ideas for the gathering please let us know. We'll even consider some wild ideas from BERNIE LYONS, the Red Baron of Pan Am. 
DAVID B. MURPHY, former president of the Milwaukee ND Club, has been named regional vice president for the New York City group of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., and has moved to 48 Rural 
Dr., New Canaan, Conn. 06840 with his 
wife Angela SMC '58, and their three 
children. They would welcome a call or 
visit from anyone passing through. 
George Groble 
111 W. Washington St. 
Chicago, 111. 60602 
'58 UNDERWHELMING 29.1%* 
It is obviously time for another of our periodic appeals for news items. As you can see, the quantity of news at our disposal 
for this issue is . . . underwhelming. How long has it been since you dropped us a line? 
Rev. RICHARD R. MERCY SJ, was 
Alfred J. 
Weimheimer Jr. 
ordained June 12, after completing his theological education at the Jesuit School of Theology, Berkeley, Calif. He spent the past summer at St. Joseph's Parish, Seattle, and is now teaching religion at Beilarmine Prep in Tacoma, where he will also conduct retreats and work in adult education. 
THOMAS S. SMITH, JR. was an M.B.A. recipient in the June 12 commencement at the U. of Santa Clara, Calif. 
Maj. RONALD J. JEBAVY was selected for the U.S. Army Command and Staff College Commandant's list upon graduation, June 11, at Ft. Leavenworth, Kan. He has served in Vietnam and his next assignment is at Oregon State U. Graduate School, Corvallis, Ore. 
PAUL W. PIKELL has been chosen the outstanding employee of 4950th Test Wing Engineering Division for 1970 at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio. He lives at 1532 Wedgewood Dr., Fairbom, Ohio. 
Arthur L. Roule, Jr. 
1610 Fifth Street 
La Porte, Ind. 46350 

'59 NEW DISCOVERIES 26.4 ?r* 
My new residence in the San Diego area has proved to be a great experience. One of the discoveries I have made is that we have seven classmates in this area! PAUL WILLIHNGANZ, 5001 Kensington Dr., and TED BARES, 7838 Cowles Mt., Apt. C-39, are also new to the area. The three of us join FRANK PRANTIL, 1892 Nautilus, La JoUa; WAYNE PENCE, 3710 10th Ave.; MIKE LORCH, 4231 Varona Ave.; RUBEN GARCIA. 6301 Lake Athabaska PI., and Dr. BOB GIARRATANO, 5763 Lance St. 
ANDY SULLIVAN married Marian Hagan of Chicago on Sept 12, 1970. Marian is a Loyola Chicago graduate and teaches in the city. Last month Andy was promoted to associate director of marketing research at Libby, McNeill & Libby. His address is 10214 S. Walden Parkway, Chicago (60643). Fr. MIKE HEPPEN CSC has been appointed assistant senior vice president of the U. of Portland. Mike has served for the past few years as director of admissions, besides doing quite a bit of the public relations and development work for the university. Another CSC classmate, Fr. LARRY CALHOUN, of the Notre 
Dame High School for Boys, Niles, III., is 
the new secretary-treasurer of the Illinois 
High School Athletic Association, and 
national chairman of the Junior Olympic 
Fencing Development Committee. Notre 
Dame High School will host the U.S. Junior 
Olympic Championships in April, 1972. 
DAN CULLEN's sister. Sister Irene 
Cullen, RSCJ, is the principal of the ele­
mentary school here at Sacred Heart, 
Greenfield Hills. (Small world!) Dan is a 
vice president for the Northwest offices of 
Walston & Company, lives in the San 
Francisco suburb of Hillsborough, and has 
three daughters: "K.C." (7), Kristin (5) 
and Danice (2). BOB SCHOENEMAN has 
moved from Mishawaka, Ind. to Manhasset, 
N.Y.
 (136 North Woods Road). JAMES 

M.
 O'BRIEN, M.D. has moved from Chanute AFB, 111., to Fort Worth, Tex. And BOB GHELARDI made a big move from 300 E. 71st St to 340 R 63rd St in NYC. The last report we have of BILL WARDELL is that he is living at 99 Cadogan Gardens, London SW 3, England. Another man of the continent, ED ROHRBACH, must have decided to stay in Paris. Ed, who is head of the Paris office for "The Chicago Tribune, finally had his address at ND changed from Crown Point Ind., to 15 Rue de Marignan. 


California has definite attraction for some of our classmates, among them: Major ANDREW WYRICK, Sunnyvale; GARY VONDRAN, San Jose; CHARLES VON DER AHE, Studio City; PAUL DECKER, San Francisco; and TERRY MOLONY, Palos Verdes Peninsula. We also have a few men in the St. Louis area. They are: JESUS JOSEPH MIGUEL, JOHN ROEDEL, RAY OFFUTT and BILL McDOWELL. BO 


"> ^ 1 

BROEMMEL lives in Mexico, Mo., which some might claim is a suburb of St. Louis. 
Meanwhile back in Chicago—Here's a list of guys you im'ght contact: BOB MARSO, Downers Grove; EMIL ZER­NICK, Downers Grove; EUGENE KELLEY, Evanston; BILL MOLLIHAN, M.D., DICK PHELAN and DUKE GIBBON, Oak Park; JOE MAIER, Glen Hlyn; HARRY KOENIG and GEORGE VANDER VENNET, Wilmette; JIM PIOWATY, M.D., and ED HICKEY, Naperville; TOM HOBERG, Oak Park; TERRY DALY, Grayslake, and BILL BATTALGIA and MIKE MANNING. 
Joseph P. Mulligan 2100 Greenfield Drive a Cajon, Calif. 92021 
'60 SALESMAN OF YEAR 28.6%* 
CHARLES M. SINCELL has been named salesman of the year for the Midwest region by the Mueller Climatrol Corp., of Mil­waukee. Sineell is a sales representative in the Indianapolis zone office where he and his family reside at 1619 E 77th St The firm manufactures heating and air-con­ditioning equipment for residential, com­mercial and industrial applications. 
ROBERT J. NICOLAZZI, a member of 
'Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of Sept. 30, 1971. 
the '57, '58 and '59 football squads, has been 
appointed assistant district manager of the northeast sales district for tractor operations of the Ford Motor Co., at Latham, N.Y. He recently returned from a two and a half year assignment with Ford Tractor 
(Belgium) Ltd., and has been program timing manager at a staff office in Troy, Mich. He will be relocating his family in the Albany, N.Y. area. 
LAWRENCE E. VANCE JR., has moved 
D. Jeny McGlynn 

from Commacfc, N.Y., to Melbourne, Fla. 
32901, Box 351. 
ANTHONY L. WALSH JR., has been appointed deputy managing director of Indofil, the Bombay, India, subsidiary of the Rohm and Haas Co., Philadelphia. 
Thomas J. O'Connell 
3350 Everett Rd. Lake Forest, 111. 60045 
'61 FROM LONDON 29.2%* 
The column would have been even shorter 
this time if it hadn't been for a newsy 
letter from Dr. DENNIS P. CANTWELL. Denny writes from London, England: 
"JIM McVElGH I see quite frequently. He is assistant administrator at Harbor General Hospital in Los Angeles, single, and owner of a fabulous bachelor pad on the beach in Manhattan Beach, Calif. 
"BILL HEINBECK.ER, my roommate for four years, is teaching at Missouri U., in St. Louis, married, and has three daughters. The St. Louis Post-Dispatch recently ran an article on him after he swept all tennis titles in the St. Louis area. 
"JOHN CARELLA is in private law practice in the San Francisco area. DEAN JACOBSON is working in engineering in Pasadena and FRANK FASEL, single, is working in aerospace in Fullerton, Calif. Administration and has relocated his family in the Albany, N.Y. area. He writes 
"J. J. MACEDONIA, finishing general surgery residency in Columbus, Ohio, plans private practice in Stevensville, while ED KOMPARE, in internal medicine residency in Chicago, plans to work in Arizona. 
"Sadly I have to report that TODD EMMANUEL was killed when his car was hit as he was driving to work as an internal medicine resident at St. Louis U. 
"Finally for myself, I am on sabbatical 
Duffy Mallard! Murphy 
Walczy Melody Patchel Jr. 
Donn B. Duffy '55 has been appointed general sales manager for WCBM Radio, Baltimore, Md. Duffy joined the Baltimore Metro­media Radio station in 1963. He is president of the ND Club of Bal­timore and lives at 4304 Norwood Rd., with his wife and four children. He is a member of the Baltimore Radio-Advertising-Television Society. 
Michael P. Mallard! '56 has been elected vice president for planning and analysis for American Broadcasting Companies, Inc. Mallardi is rejoining ABC after 10 years with Straus Broadcasting, Radio Press International and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. He is married and lives at 10 Charnwood Dr., Suffern, N.Y. 10901. 
David B. Murphy '57 is the new regional vice president in Metro­politan Life Insurance Company's New York City group office. He joined the company as a service supervisor in Chicago in 1959, later being transferred to Milwaukee. Murphy and his wife have three children. The Murphy home is at 48 Rural Dr., New Canaan, Conn. 
Robert J. Walczy '58 is now chief systems consultant of the Manage­ment Science Department of International Computers, Ltd., of Great Britain. His office is in Computer House, Euston Centre, London, N.W.I, England. Walczy previously was a project manager with Booz, Allen and Hamilton in Chicago. 
Lawrence J. Melody '59 has been elected executive vice president of the Northland Mortgage Co., St. Paul, Minn. He joined the firm in 1967 and is also president of Northland Investment Co., a subsidiary engaged in real estate brokerage, equity joint ventures and other ser­vices to developers. 
Thomas E. Patchel Jr. '60 has been appointed director of marketing for Holosonics, a Richland, Wash., firm specializing in the application of acoustical holography to medical, nondestructive testing and geo­physical applications. He joined Holosonics after serving as national sales manager of Photophysics, Inc. 
leave in London until July 1972. Then I'll 
return to the UCLA Ne?ro Psychiatric 
Institute in Los Angeles as director of 

residency training in child psychiatry. My 
office address here is: Institute of Psychiatry, 
Room 109, De Crespigny Park, Denmark 
Hill, London S.E. 5, England. My home 
address is No. 16 the HanJet, Champion 
Hill, London, S.E. 5. If any of the Class 
of '61 are in London this year, give me a 
ring at 01-274-0203." 

STEPHEN W. BENNISON has taken a 
long-awaited Federal appointment in 
personnel management with the Veterans 

from 24A Commodore St., Albany, 12205 
that he is looking forward to activity with 
the alumni of the area. 
Arnold Leporati Jr. 
225-23—108th Ave. 
Queens ViUage, N.Y. 11429 

'62 ISLAND EPISTLE 25.8%* 
MIKE GIACINTO sends an epistle from Marina Cay "the island of tranquility" in the British Virgin Islands where he and wife Fran own and run a resort hotel. Mike sent me a picture and believe me the "Dunes" never looked like this. In addition, Mike builds homes on a neighboring island and is thoroughly enjoying himself after spending three years in the Marine Corps and three years with an ad agency in New York. Mike has squired a son and daughter who have as their godfathers JOEY BAL and ROSS ROSI. For a brochure on his island paradise write Mike at Marina Cay, Tortola, British Virgin Islands. 
DAN KOENIG has completed his doctorate in sociology at Illinois and is now teaching at the U. of Victoria and can be reached in care of the Department of Sociology Victoria, British Columbia, Canada. MICK BIALLAS is the new assistant program administrator for the Petroleum Research Fund of the American Chemical Society in Washington, D.C. He and wife Cam: have three children and recently visited JOHN LEFELHOCZ who is now teaching at Virginia Commonwealth in Richmond. 
JOHN ECK is a partner in a CPA firm in Springfield, 111. and the father of four chUdren. JOHN PUGLIESE works for Alcoa in Chicago and has five children. MIKE HARTs better half, Dottie, writes that they are moving back to Arizona, this time to Scottsdale where Mike will be the district manager for Ford's new customer service division. This is Mike's fourth or fifth move with Ford. JIM MIKACICH is back in Sacramento where he is in his second year as a deputy district attorney.He reports seeing LINSEY KRAMER who is practicing law in Vacaville, Calif. 
Dr. MIKE WILBRAHAM has recenUy opened an office in Swedesboro, NJ. for the practice of pediatrics. Mike has spent two years in the Navy at New London, Conn, as a pediatrician. BILL SWEENY is an associate professor in the math department at Rutgers University. Bill and Gail are living in North Brunswick, NJ. JIM MAHER is the accounting manager for the Monrovia, Calif., operation of the DuPont Company. Jim and Gloria have two children. GEORGE O'KEEFE writes from Taipei, Taiwan where he is a partner in Pacific Keystone Company which represents various American and European companies in the Far East. George's address: Pacific Keystone Co., Ltd., 123 Nanking East Road, Sec. 3 Taipei, Taiwan. CYRIL DE­VLIEGHER has been appointed manager of events of the ND Athletic and Convo­cation Center. He will be responsible for crowd control, and event setup. Cyril had been teaching in St. Joseph and Marian 
High Schools. 
JIM RHODES has been awarded the Peace Fellowship of the Hoover Institution at Stanford U. and will begin a year in Palo Alto this fall. JOE WHITE has been named director of portfolios in the securities investment division of the Massa­chusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. Joe joined the firm in 1964, is married and the father of three children. 
My cry for news two issues ago ap­parently worked. While I didn't have enough to publish last time, all of a sudden letters poured in. Would like to hear from more of you now as we approach our 10th reunion. In the meantime, Giadnto here we come. 
Make your plans now for our reunion. You will be getting periodic notices from the Alumni Office but as you read this column try and set aside those few days next "June for a trip back. 
Recently returned from our annual pilgrimage to a ND football weekend— this time it was the Michigan State game. We motored out with EARL and Darielle LINEHAN then merged with JOHN and Jeanne MACHECA, MIKE and Theresa HARRON and JOHN and Linda TIDGE­WELL. BILL and Roberta WEINHEIMER 
John C. Dearie 
joined us briefly to aid a weekend filled with memories. Also ran into the tem­pestuous trio from "Motown," JOHN SHUFF, JOHN HARDY and TOM FALLON all of whom live near each other in Detroit. Their wives have much in common since all graduated from SMC. Was good to see RUDY KOLOSZAR, ROGER BROWN, JOHN GULLIARD and RON NASSER. Must admit however that each year fewer classmates seem to return. If one significant aspect of this weekend stands out it has to be the emergence of the team of Harron and Krauser as an unbeatable darts duo. This or John Macheca's ability to play golf in the woods. 
Received a note from PAT METTLER announcing the adoption of their first son. Pat is a general insurance agent in Hunting­ton, Ind. Pat writes that TOM NOONAN is in the sales department of a drug company in Indianapolis. Congratulations to JOE ECHELLE who in his first year as general manager of the Dallas professional soccer team guided them to the North American soccer championship. Anyone who is in Miami please stop at NICK BUONICONTI's new restaurant. Nick, an all-pro linebacker with the Dolphins, has his law degree as well and is very active in the N.F.L.'s player association. 
If you have any thoughts concerning the reunion please convey them my way. Some of you may be called upon in the near future to help put together a reunion which surveys indicate brings more classmates back than any other. 
H. James Krauser 8301 Garfield St. Bethesda, Md. 20034 
'62L ALL NEWSED UP 
I just returned from the So. Cat game and am all "newsed up." While the game was a disappointment, it did provide the 

scenario for a small reimion. The STUCKOs, GOULDS, and TOM KELLYs were all there. PHIL KNUTE HANSEN and wife drove in from White Plains, N.Y., where Phil has been working at Title Guarantee & Trust Co. for the last nine years. Dog "Flair" did not make trip. PAUL McNELLIS and Jan were there. Paul, calm and collected as ever, was driving a big orange and white sporty sedan, the car, he said, that was most fitting for a store-front lawyer. He and Jan have three boys and operate out of Ft. Wayne. My ticket benefactors, JOHN COSTELLO and JOE SULLIVAN, and their wives, Mary Lou and Patti, co-hosted with DICK CLIFFORD the parking lot postgame cocktail party. John and Joe are both with Associates of South Bend. John is assistant general counsel and has been doing a lot of travelling around the country in con­nection with several lawsuits. Joe is in charge of the legislation section. LARRY MANDYCK, our FBI man in NashvUle, Tenn., drove up with his spouse. Larry, as witty as ever, said that he is ready, willing and able to heed the call for a reunion. CHARLIE O'MALLEY, who was a few years behind us, flew in from Massachusetts. Charlie's a litigator in Boston. EMMET TYRRELL, who has been handling a goodly amount of trust and estate litigation in Youngstown, Ohio, appeared Friday night and managed to brighten up the halls of Sweeney's, the situs of our postrally cocktail party. Lots of class. 
After the game I had the pleasure of spending a most enjoyable 24-hour period with the Stuckos in their new home in Deerfield, a suburb of Chicago. Jim, Maiy, sons Jimmy and Stephen, and daughter "Beloved Erin" were the perfect hosts. The visit gave me the opportunity of logging in a few hours of tv football with Jim, who must rival only Dandy t)on Meredith for football witticisms. 
Speaking of John Costello and Jim Stucko, both have appeared with some frequency in the Big Apple recently. John and I have been working on a case which has required his absence from Mary Lou and Baby John and his appearance on a number of occasions. Naturally, we have made the most of each visit. Once we teamed up with MIKE SCANLON who started with us in '59. Mike is now a partner in the N.Y.C. office of Arthur Andersen & Co., lives in New Jersey and sends his best to all. Another time John and I had to travel to Syracuse and man­aged to snare ED KEARSE from his municipal duties. Ed is corporation counsel in Syracuse and has been playing a very active role in its management. He's part of the new breed in that city and doing quite a job. John is still very much his old self, lots of fun and just one hell of a guy. 
Jim Stucko has been practically living here for the last three months. His firm, Pedersen & Houpt, just completed a major acquisition which saw Tom Kelly called to action to flyspeck the usual sundry docu­ments in small, medium and large prints. Tom, who has been mostly involved with real estate work, lives with wife Gail and their son in Park Ridge, a Chicago suburb. He and Jim Stucko, who is still coining those phrases—a martini is now a "see thru," made quite a pair. The nights that we spent together had to be the funniest times that I have enjoyed in quite a moon. 
In early October the Stuckos, Goulds and PETER KELLY and wife Suzie came into 
N.Y.C. for a long weekend. This has de­veloped into an annual trek and gives us all a nice chance to get together, see a few off-Broadway shows and just generally "shoot 'em up" (another Stuckoism). Need­less to say, we milk these opportunities for all that they are worth. Jim Gould, who 
*Percentage of donors to the ND Animal Fund as of Sept. 30, 1971. 
until very recently had been handling up to five workmen's compensation cases per week, has since delegated this work to another member of his firm and now, much to the satisfaction of Nancy and their three children, is doing mainly trial work in Grand Rapids and its environs. Pete Kelly, the third member of Pedersen & Houpt to grace our shores in the last month, had quite an experience on this his first trip to 
N.Y.C. After one of our late night meetings at Christo's, Pete decided to take a walk and promptly fell off a curb and severely twisted his ankle. He sought refuge in an adjacent coffee shop where amidst his groans the counterman dropped dead right in front of him. 
Don't forget to return those complex reunion questionnaires. Merry Christmas and for the New Year: "May the wind be always at your back." 
Paul K. Rooney Rooney & Robinson 
60 East 42nd Street New York, N.Y. 10017 
'63 WHERE THEY'RE AT 25.6% * 
STEPHEN PETERS reports from Union-town, Pa., where he, wife Miralynn, and two little girls are living. Steve is working as a registered rep for Parker/Hunter, stock brokers. He spent two years in grad school in W. Va., and three years in the 
Michael H. McCarthy 

service, including a hitch in Munich. Maj. 
DICK TUSHLA reports from Hanau, 
Germany, where he is practicing out­
patient medicine. Dick expects to return 
to the States in '73. 
DAVID M. KENNEDY is a director and president of Valentine Smith Co. Inc., of New York and Los Angeles, an organization formed to develop and produce program­ming particularly in the educational and instructional field. He is the former head of the New York office of Trans World International and its director of program and sales. 
JOHN M. RAMMEL, M.A. '63, L. '64, was awarded the degree of master of laws in taxation by the lawyers Institute, the graduate division of the John Marshall Law School, Chicago at the June 19 com­mencement in the auditorium of the Prudential Bldg., Chicago. He is a trust officer with the First National Bank of Chicago. 
DAVID M. COOPER '63 has been ap­pointed manager, marketing communications for General Hectric's General Purpose Control Department at Bloomington, III. He joined GE four years ago as a pro­motion specialist at Hendersonville, N.C., later transferring to Schenectady and then to Phoenix, Ariz., where he became manager of advertising and sales promotion. He, his wife and their three children will live in the Bloomington area. 
Note here from TERRY DESMOND. MATT MURPHY has been transferred to Albany, hf.Y., where he is a district manager for Chevrolet. Matt's family recently expanded to S with the addition of a new boy. 
PAT O'BRIEN is the proud parent of a 
new boy also. BRIAN RICHARDSON is 
now with the IR dept. of Kelsey-Hayes. 
CHARLES DRISCOLL is now employed 
with a wholsesale office furniture company 
in the Merchandise Mart in Chicago. Thank 
goodness for wives, if not for them, this 
column would never get written. Note here 
from Mrs; RICHARD KUZMICH. Dick is 
now working for May Company as as­
sistant manager of internal auditing. Dick 
and Barbara have two children, a boy and 
a girl. They are living in Sappington, Mo. 
Guess who turned up finally! FRANK 
DICELLO, living at 4451 Q. St. N.W., 
Washington, D.C. Note that address, future 
items for the class column should go to 
Good Old Frank! 
Frank reports that he recently married Mary Janice Lord, SMC '67, and is working in the Tax Division of the Justice Dept. He reports that TOM VOLLMER is working for the late Gov. Dewey's law firm in NYC. PHIL RYAN is working for an ecology related consulting firm on Cape Cod and recently became the father of a new girl. TOM JOLE recently returned from Catholic Relief Service work in SA and is now working in Chicago. 
Dr. FRANK MARTORANO is interning at U. of Colorado Hospital in Denver. He and wife Geri are expecting their third child. Since this is my last column (until Frank goes to Vietnam again), I should report that Dona and I recently became the very proud parents of a future ND line­backer via the adoption route. We now have a family of three, Tara 5, Megan 3, and Patrick, new. We've been here in Coming 2 years, where I am a marketing/financial guy for Coming Glass Works. 
Thomas Hotopp 
R.D. 1, 55 Churchill St. 
Big Flats, N.Y. 14814 
'64 ROSSMAN RETURNS 24.2%* 
PAUL ROSSMAN has joined the Com­puting Center staff at ND as an admini­strative applications analyst. He and his wife, Mimi, have moved with their three children to Mishawaka, Ind. 
DAVID D. CIRULI has been appointed project engineer in the Boulder laboratory of IBM's systems Development Division, Boulder, Colo. Ciruli and his wife, Elizabeth, and their two sons live in Boulder. 
Dr. ROCCO R. TUTELA was voted the outstanding intem of the year bythe house staff of St. Michael's Medical Center, Newark, N.J., and was recipient of the Upjohn Award and Honorarium at the seventh annual Dr. Philip R. D'Ambola Night of the hospital. Dr. Tutela received 
David W. Ellis 

his degree in medicine and surgery from the U. of Bologna, Bologna, Italy. He is married to the former Francesca Cunti and they liave a son, Arthur. JAMES P. CROWLEY received his M.B.A. degree in June at St. Louis U., SL Louis, Mo. 
WILLIAM C. RUETER is now a Real Estate Officer with the First Pennsylvania Bank in Philadelphia. JAMES C. McGRATH is now special assistant to Bob Mardian, the assistant attorney general for internal security. Jim and his wife, Sherby are living in Silver Spring, Md. 
THOMAS O. BENSON Is legal counsel 
for the Denver Regional Council of Govern­
ments. Tom is the college recording chair­
man for the ND Club of Denver. ED­
WARD M. HUGHES competed 5V4 years 
of Navy service and is emiHoyed as a 
senior engineer for Bechtel Corporation in 
San Francisco, Calif. Ed married the former 
Susan E. Brown of Santa Ana, Calif. 
MICHAEL P. KIRCHEN is department manager for Abbott Laboratories. He Uves in Waukegan, 111., with his wife and son, Christopher. T. A. KULICK completed law school at the U. of Detroit J. GERALD YOUNG married the former Kathryn Taaffe. They are living in New York where Jerry is a resident in psychiatry at St Luke's Hospital Center, Columbia U. CHARLES G. BRAGG was with SheU Oil in Cincinnati and is now at the U. of Cincinnati at the Graduate School in Philosophy. JAMES E. HOUGH is an attorney and executive secretary of the Wisconsin Judicial Council. Jim and his wife Sally live in Madison and have one son. 
FRANK J. KENNY Jr. is a stockbroker with Kidder Peabody in San Francisco. He married the former Elizabeth O'Hare of New MUford NJ. JOHN J. ORAS Jr. received his Ph.D. in Aero-Space and mechanical engineering at ND. ROBERT 
F. CORRAD received his M.B.A. at UCLA and Adel(Aia U. Bob and his wife have a son and are living in Farmingdale, N.Y. 
Clay Stephens 2 S. 120 Big Horn Drive Wheaton, lU. 60187 
'65 ALL THE NEWS THAT FITS 29.5%* 
BILL McGRAW is in his second year of Radiology residency at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. Bill has one son, Noel. STEVE VAN HEYDE and his wife, Nancy, had their first child, Stephanie Heaton, last May. Steve received his J.D. in 1968 from 
Ohio State U. College of Law and is 
associated with the firm of Porter, Stanley, Treffinger and Piatt in Columbus, Ohio. 
In 1968 TOM DeCOURSEY earned a 
J.D. from the U. of Kansas Law School. Subsequently he served as a Peace Corps municipal adviser near Caracas, Venezuela. Upon returning he joined the staff of the Wyandotte County (Kansas City, Kan.) Legal Aid Society. Tom recently was ap­pointed general counsel of that organization. In August Tom was married to Joy C. Hemphill in Denver. 
JOHN KOONS and his wife, Kathy, are living in Falls Church, Va., where John and his father have the largest Ford dealership in the world. John will be opening a new Chevrolet dealership in the same city. JIM CARROLL and wife, Paula, have moved back to Annapolis, Md., where Jim is serving as the general manager of the Ford dealership. John has a son and two daughters and Jim has one daughter. 
After graduation BILL CARETTA worked for IBM for six months until the Army caught him. For three years he was stationed in the surgeon general's oBice in Washington, D.C. Bill then developed hospital-oriented computer systems for Lockheed. He left that company recently to form his own corporation with several partners. It will function as a consulting company at Sunnyvale, Calif. In March, Bill received his M.B.A. from the U. of Santa Clara and in October he was married to Mao' Campbell in Palo Alto, Calif. 
BOB DITORIO took over Bill's job at the surgeon general's office in 1968 and has now completed his military obligation. Bob is single and is working for IBM in New York. Living in Sunnyvale is HAL FEENEY who is married and is working for INTEL, a semiconductor company. 
In 1970, TOM HECK received his Ph.D. in musicology from Yale. His training included a Fulbright fellowship in Vienna. Early this year Tom obtained an honorable discharge from the Army as a conscientious objector and now remains active as a draft counselor while pursuing a career as a teacher of music histoiy. He and his wife, Anne, have a two-year-old daughter named Latissa. 
WYN NORRIS is serving as director of planning for CRC-Crose International, a division of Crutcher Resources Corp. Wyn and his wife, Carolyn, live in Houston with their son and daughter, ages 3'A and VA. Last spring JOHN MEULEMAN earned an M.B.A. from Northeastern U., in Boston where he resides with bachelor status and works as an application engineer for the Power Breaker division of Allis Chalmers. 
BOB McKEEVER and his wife, Kathy, live in New London, Conn., where Bob is employed with the Department of the Navy as a personnel management adviser for the Underwater Systems Center. In June he earned his second M.B.A., this one from the 
U. of Hartford in public administration. BOB GAENSSLEN spent the summer in London where he worked with Scotland Yard on a blood identification program under a research grant Bob has a Ph.D. in biochemistry and holds an assistant pro­fessorship at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, City of New York U. After receiving his J.D. from Georgetown Law Center, JOHN MORAN moved to Chicago where he was admitted to the Illinois bar. While in Chicago John served as a public defender doing criminal appeals and also had the opportunity to study the psychological, social and legal implications of the Chicago confrontation between police and various factional groups several years ago. His report was included in the analysis by the National Commission on the cause and prevention of violence. John is now planning a European trip in order to reflect on the political structure of the U.S. JIM BORDA is at the U. of Toronto working on his Ph.D. and CHARLEY O'LAUGHLIN is working with South­western Indians in Oklahoma for the Public Health Service. After an extended Army tour PETER VINSON in 1969 joined the Prudential Insurance Co., in Boston where he works in their ordinary agencies depart­ment His wfe, Kitty, presented him last June wth their first child, Kristen Monica. 
Within a few months Tom will be moving to a field agency in the New England area. 
James P. Hamish M.D. 8661 S.E. 75th Place Mercer Island, Wash. 98040 

'66 SWEENEY'S 28.0%* 
I want to thank TOM SULLIVAN for covering for me as to the happenings at our class reunion. J was really sorry to have had to miss the goings-on but I was in a wedding in Iowa that weekend and was 
unable to attend. I've been assured that 
everyone who was there had a wonderful 
time. I want to thank you all for your 
confidence in electing me as your class 
alumni secretary for another five years. I 
hope I can live up to that confidence. 
CHUCK NIGRO was also unable to attend the reunion but he had the pleasure of receiving a midnight long-distance collect call from Sweeney's from TOM HOLLAND, FRANK MALLEY and HUGH Mc-GOWAN. Chuck writes that be and his wife, Judy, are expecting their second child in the immediate future. LT. PAUL AHR is the proud dad of a year-and-a-half-old son. TTiomas Brady and CapL GARY FISHBURN is living in San Antonio with his wife and new son, Steven Arthur. 
CHARLES ROACH, Jr. has been ap­pointed one of the managers of the Devon Office of Roach Bros., Inc., Main Line 
Realtors of Devon, Pa. ANTHONY LISA 
has joined the 'Trane Co., in Boston as a 
sales engineer. JOE BLANK writes from 
Columbia, Md. where he is with Eastman 
Kodak as a Micrographics Sales Repre­
sentative. Joe and his wife, Carol, have 
three children, two boys and a girl. 
BOB STRAKER is in Chicago working across the street from me with Fidelity Mutual Life in their Advanced Financial Planning Division. Bob filled me in on some of our other classmates in this area. JIM STARSHAK and JIM EGAN are with the IRS. TERRY KEWELA is working as a special assistant to Judge Thaddeus V. Adesko and BOB BASCHE is in a training program with Jewel Food Stores. 
RICHARD J. STEINLE is a staff writer with the Goodyear Tire Public Relations Department in Akron. Dick was an Air Force newswriter from 1966 to 1970. JOE KAMINSKI is with General Electric in Syracuse after receiving his M.B.A. with distinction from the Harvard U. Graduate School of Business Administration. 

TIM STREB has been promoted to account officer at the Security Pacific National Bank in Los Angeles. MICHAEL HANNIGAN has been appointed assistant mortgage officer for Colfax-Waterfield Corporation of South Bend and is re­sponsible for origination of residential mortgage loans in the South Bend-Mishawaka area. 
LOUIS BARTOSHESKY is compleUng a pediatric internship at St. Louis Children's Hospital in St. Louis. He received a doctor of medicine degree from Cornell Medical College and was the recipient of the Milton Spivak award for excellence in pediatric medicine. Another doctor classmate is MICHAEL J. OSBORN who graduated from Minnesota Medical School in June of 1970 ranking third in bis class. Mike was elected president of Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society. He is presently interm'ng at Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas and is preparing for his two-year stint in the Army. 
ED CALIOR is in the Army JAGC unit serving his commitment with Uncle Sam after graduating from U. of Pittsburgh Law School and passing the Pennsylvania bar examination. Ed is in charge of legal assistance. Ed is working with classmates GEORGE GRAY, a Geoisetown Law School graduate. Ed informed me that his Pittsburgh classmate RICK DAVIS is with the public defender's office in Midland, Fa. and that DAVE McSORLEY is practicing law in Pittsburgh after graduation from Duguesne Law School. 
GORDON NASH is back in Chicago after serving with the 101st Airborne Division in Vietnam as a defense attorney with the JAGC office. Gordon and his lovely wife, Roseanne, had their first baby, a darling girl, Caroline, last Christmas. There are other '66ers who are still in the service: Capt. JOHN KUMINECZ has assumed command of the American forces television station at Ramstein AB, Germany. Dr. THOMAS COOK is now a flight surgeon with the Navy. The U.S. Air Force Outstanding Unit award has been earned by the I2th Tactical Fighter Wing of which Capt. CARL P. PARLATORE is a member. Capt. JOHN WALTERS is on duty at Udorn Royal Thai AFB in Thailand as a civil engineering officer. 
The success of Apollo 15 precluded use of Capt. THOMAS R. LOVEs Air Force unit which was ready to provide support if the lunar mission had ended prematurely. Tom is an HC-130 search and rescue air­craft pilot with an Aerospace Rescue and Recovery Squadron at E^in AFB, Fla. Capt. JOSEPH W. FOBES received the Air Medal at Korat Royal Thai AB in Thailand for outstanding airmanship and courage as an F-4 Phantom fighter-bomber pilot. MIKE RUSH after graduation from Syracuse U. with honors and a remarkable Army career was married last year. While in the service, Mike was awarded the silver star for gallantry in action, two bronze stars for bravery in the face of armed enemy, three air medals for operation in a hostile area, the commendation medal and two South Vietnamese government medals. 
Men of '66, keep up the good work and keep the information coming! 
Richard H. Angelotti 4620 Clausen Ave. Western Springs, 111. 60558 
'66L GOOD NEIGHBORS 
I received the notice that JOE DELLA MARIA has become associated with Roth­schild, Barry & Myers in Chicago. Perhaps we will get to see Joe more often now. PETE IPPOLITO is moving to Washington, 
D.C. and will be employed as an attorney with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. He has purchased a house near us. 
BOB MURPHY moved to 5202 Glen-wood, Bethesda, phone 301-530-5841, after his promotion to acting chief of the Criminal Section of the Civil Rights Division. We understand that MARTY IDZIK has extended his stay in Europe with the Army, but will be back in the United States by Christmas. 
SAM BERNARDI's new address is 459 Roane Lane, Valparaiso, Ind. 46383, and DENNY SUNDERHAUS' address is rumored to be 557 Belvedere St., Apt 2, San Francisco, Calif. 94117. I promised that I would specify DICK STEIN-BRONN's address, R.R. 7, Kennedy Manor, Elkhart, Ind. 46514. Dick is looking for­ward to seeing anyone who gets back for the football games. TOM HARVEY is attending graduate school in London after being released by the Army. 
Francis M. Gregory, Jr. 5018 Woodland Way Annandale, Va. 22003 
'67 FALL CALL 25.7% * 
ND, fall and football conjure up dreams of heaven for many a NDer. Not that our first two correspondents represent heaven, but they surely experienced fall at ND 
'Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of Sept. 30, 1971. 
because the gridiron was their home for many hours of their campus days. For TOM RHOADS, the present finds his wife Kathie, Tom Jr., (I), and himself settled in the Bluegrass country which, Tom reminds us, is also the home of John Kay, head coach at the U. of Kentucky. Tom has been working for Batesville Casket Sales Co., since last October and so far is ex­tremely pleased with what he considers to be a pennanent assignment. A "big news" item from Tom states that JOHN OVER­MAN will have been led to the rail as of October 9 by Phyllis Blaise, a Barat Bomber from Cincy. 
Last summer the Rhoads' spent a night with JIM THORTON, his wife Barbara, and son Jamey in New Albany, Ind. Jim has joined the family leather goods business. Tom reports that "still single" ED BRANDT has changed locations with his employer Budweiser—^from SL Louis to New York and that MIKE BRENNAN and his wife Adrian have joined with the forces of Uncle Sam as of the end of this past summer. (Mike completed ND Law this past June.) Tom's old roommate, JIM RYAN, will finish LSU Med School in the summer of 1972. He and his wife Mary are expecting their first this fall and better be prepared for the arrival of the Rhoads' for the LSU game. Tom also sends forth a special request: "If any of the members of the 4th floor of Badin are still alive, I'd like to hear from them."—Creekside So. 2220 Devonport No. 56, Lexington, Ky. 40504. 
ANGELO SCHIRALLI writes that as of this summer he has become engaged to Bonnie Parker Cameron of Palm Beach, Fla. The wedding is to take place Oct 31 at Sacred Heart (day after the Navy game), and Angle extends a warm invitation to all friends on campus that weekend to stop in at the reception at the Monogram Room. At the time of this writing, ushers stand at DICK SWATLAND, TIM GORMAN, and JOHN LIUMl. Angle's present address is Palm Beach Shores where he's employed 
with Mutual Benefit Life Ins. Company. TIM WENGIERSKI recenUy joined the insurance firm and is also living in the Palm Beach area. 
ANDY REARDON informs us of his completion of duty with the Navy as of July 30. Andy's assignment just prior to his discharge was as damage control officer of the aircraft carrier fVasp. With the service behind him, Andy and wife Michelle have sold their home in Fall River, Mass., and have moved to Oxford, Miss., where Andy will be a first-year law student at the U. of Mississippi. With BOB SEVIER having been recently discharged from the Army, Andy was trying to coax him and his wife to join them for the Southern Cal game. Andy mentions that PHIL AZAR, after graduating from Tulane Law School in January, is now doing legal research in Washington, D.C. 
JACK DONAHUE has been busy getUng ready to start grad school in aerospace management at USC. And he's going to have company because his wife Mary Jo will be starting law school. While with Uncle Sam, Jack was iniured, and as a result, part of Jack's Calif, preparations 
Hicks Killilea Carmouche 
Hamilton Eustice Raspitha 
3. William Hicks '62 has been named associate dean for academic af­fairs in the College of Law at Syracuse U., Syracuse, N.Y. He has been a member of the faculty since 1968. He received a J.D. from the 
U. of Michigan in 1965 and an M.A. in history at New York U. in 1968. 
Alfred G. Killilea '63 has received an award for excellence in under­graduate teaching at the U. of Rhode Island, Kingston, R.I. The assistant professor of political science has taught at Rhode Island for two years after receiving his M.A. and Ph.D. from the U. of Chicago. 
Charles H. Carmouche '64 has been promoted to vice president of TeleCom Corp., Houston, Tex. Since July 1967 he had been legal counsel of the firm which has interests in trucking, investments and manufacturing. 
Richard M. Hamilton '65 was appointed advertising supervisor for the Electro-Products division of the 3M Company, St. Paul, Minn. After graduation he earned an M.B.A. degree in marketing at the U. of Wisconsin and joined 3M in 1966. He will be responsible for develop­ing the division's annual advertising program and supervising advertis­ing plans for each market area. 
John T. Eustice '66 is now manager of the new Barclays Bank branch in San Francisco. Eustice had been a lending officer in another San Francisco bank before joining Barclays earlier this year. Barclays is a subsidiary of Barclays Bank D.C.O. with main offices in London. 
Bro. DePorres Raspitha O^.F., Ph.D. '70 is the new academic dean at St. Francis College, Brooklyn, N.Y. Bro. DePorres has been a member of the faculty since 1965 and has been assistant professor of chemistry. 
have included surgery for a complication 
involving a pinched nerve in the legs. Hope 
all is going well. Jack. Jack and Mary Jo 
welcomed a daughter, Audra Christine, into 
the world a year ago in November. This 
past summer Jack was in Chicago for a 
weekend of sailing with his old roommate 
CHARLIE McMANUS. CharUe is stiU with 
Procter and Gamble. Remember Father Joe 
Locigno who taught Theology for a year 
at ND during our junior year? Well, Jack 
crossed Father's path this past year and so 
did I through the old pen and paper 
method. Fr. Joe is dean at Manhattan 

College in NYC and has been teaching 
both there and at Fairfield. He claims he 
has gone the way of the old—^he's the proud 
owner of a female terrier which he quotes 
as "the woman of my life and a real joy." 
Fr. Joe is living away from the dorms but 
is on the campus; and his bachelor pad 
turns into a home for many. 

THOMAS W. RIECK. writes from Evans­
ton, III. where this past spring he received 
his J.D. degree from Northwestern and is 
now practicing general corporate and tax 
law in Chicago. Tom also received his CPA 
shortly after graduation from ND. Penney 
and Tom's neighbor BOB BROWNE gradu­
ated from the U. of Wisconsin Law School 
and is now a patent attorney in Chicago. 
Bob and Connie also have a son Robert, 
Jr. Last fall STEVE (Buzz) HARTEL, 

who is a law grad of Tulane, and his wife 
visited with the Riecks' and saw ND defeat 
Georgia Tech. Tom also reports that 

VERN RODEN graduated from St. Louis 
Med. School this past spring with special 
honors in pediatrics and will be doing his 
internship at Cardinal Glennon Mem. 
Hosp. in SL Louis. 

JOHN J. CORRIGAN II has come out of four years of hiding to report that after attending Villanova Law School for a year ('67-'68), he now finds himself serving as the property officer for Hqrs. Co. at the Nha Trang Ran command. John says he has been with Uncle Sam since January '69 and received his commission from Infantry 
O.C.S. at Fort Benning where he also com­pleted airborne and ranger schools. After his discharge in November, he hopes to return to Villanova. 
MIKE WALSH reports from Bethesda, Md., where he and his wife Jean have set up housekeeping while Mike is doing his internship and residency in pathology in conjunction with the Armed Forces Institute. This assignment follows Mike's recent graduation from the Medical College of Wisconsin where he was president of his class and a member of Alpha Omega Alpha, National Honorary Med. Society. 
CLAYTON LEROUX graduated from Cleveland State U. this past June with a 
J.D. and has since passed the Ohio bar. He's currently with the Legal Aid Society of Cleveland. Apart from his interest in law, Clayton and his wife Janet are busy with two boys, John (3) and Timothy (18 mos.). Clayton also had news about two other men of '67. RICHARD GRANT is living the good life in Hawaii where he and his wife, the former Cynthia Fontana, are expecting their first child in October. GERARD (Ace) HECK is completing work on his Ph.D. at Duke U. Ace and his wife Maureen have two children, Elizabeth and Trevor. 
Just as most of you guys have signed off in your letters, "that's about it from here"; but I have been impressed also by the number of you who are talking up Reunion —1972. Continue to think positively and 111 attempt to handle questions as you fire them to me. 
John A. Buttler 4023 Elaine Place, S. Columbus, Ohio 43227 
'67L TIME FOR CHANGE? 
A secretary in the Alumni OfiBce thought 
it was time for a change and removed my 
name as Class Secretary, substituting KEN 

LAZARUS. That may not have been a bad 
idea but your chance is gone; I'm reinstated 
and here goes another column of newsdips. 
COUCH, JACK separated from the Navy 
in May, has established the firm of Steuer­
wald & Couch in Hudson, N.Y. Going 
against all the rules the firm is prospering 
right from the start. Snoopy, his wife Pam 
and Courtney (IVS) have bought a home 
at 16 Eichybush Rd. Kinderhook, N.Y. 
12106. Drop him a card. 
LUBER, ANTHONY. His wife Mary 
wrote to share their joy in their adoption 
of Elizabeth Anne, lliey hope for another 
in 1972. That's family planning. Tony is a 

public defender in South Bend and generally 
having a good time. Tony, please tell Mary 
not to address me as Mr. Heinhold. 
HARGROVE, JOHN. StiU stationed in Calif., he and Jane flew East and we were lucky enough to get together with them and Maureen and DAVE FRANCESCANI. You would think we'd talk about what has happened since we left law school but the conversation was repeatedly prefaced by "Remember the time the Chief. . . ." It was a good evening. Dave of course is a patent attorney in N.Y. City and lives in Pt. Washington, N.Y. 
New Address Dept.: KENNETH LAZARUS. 7231 Hadlow Dr., Springfield, Va. 22152. SEAN KEENAN. 4704 Blue­berry Ave. N.W., Canton, Ohio 44709. I didn't think Canton was big enough to have its own zip code. 
Jim Heinhold 
16 Morris Rd. 
East Haven, Conn. 06513 
'68 ACTIVITIES UPDATED 27.9 %•• 
Received a very nice letter from BUD DUFFY the other day bringing us up on his current activities. Bud is married to the former Miss Ann Hoffmann and is stationed at Ft. Benning, Ga. as a lieutenant in the Army. Prior to his entry into the Army, Bud was working for his M.B.A. in financial analysis at NYU and he hopes to continue his endeavor next spring. 
James Smithbeiiier 
Also received a couple of notes from RICH FLAVEY. He is a programmer analyst with Ford in Dearborn and is married to the former Miss Nancy Halicki. 
And now some notes from the Alumni Office. THOMAS CORBETT is an estate tax attorney in the St. Louis District office of the IRS. AL VAN HUFFEL is now a sales engineer for the Wheelabrator Corp. in Pittsburgh, Pa. FRANK BLONSKA has been named a public relations assistant at the Babcock & Wilcox Co.'s power genera­tion division headquarters at Barberton, Ohio. Our class has its "little own wine­maker" in the person of BOB HIGGINS. Bob took up wine making as a hobby while working as an industrial engineer at Uni­royal. Inc., in Mishawaka, Ind. and now it has grown into a full-time business. His shop includes wine making kits and con­

centrates from French, Spanish, and 
California vineyards along with instructions. 
JIM MOONEY is now working as a 

computer engineer in Clifton, NJ. and is 
engaged to Miss Joan Arbogast of Bridge­
port, Ohio and expects to be married next 
April. Jim received his M.S. in electrical 
engineering from Ohio State and is now 
working on his dissertation for his 
doctorate. 
A correction from the April-May 

ALUMNUS. JOE BLAKE was stationed in 
Vietnam with C Company 1st Battalion 5th 
Marines, 1st Marine Division. Joe returned 
to the States in May and his new address is 
H&S Co. 1st Battalion 5th Marines 1st 
Marine Division (FMF) MCB Camp 
Pendleton, Calif. 
Leonard J. Pellecchia 
1300 Rock Ave. L-5 
N. Plainfield, NJ. 07060 
'68L DOES NANCY KNOW? 
My apologies for missing my last deadline, but things have been pretty hectic for me the last couple of months. As can be noted from my new address, I am no longer stationed in Norfolk but have been trans­ferred north. Between cleaning up loose ends and getting moved, somehow my column got lost in the shuffle. At any rate, I am now attached to the Navy's Office of Legislative Affairs in the Pentagon, the primary functions of which are to stay on top of pending legislation of interest to the naval service and to prepare the Navy's position thereon, provide information to Congress where needed, etc. My last two years in the Navy thus promise to be busy ones, but I hope that any of you who wind up in the D.C. area will be sure to drop by for a visit 
The big news of this column, though somewhat belated, has to be the announce­ment of the loss of one more bachelor. On May 30, that eligible former editor-in-chief of the Notre Dame Lawyer, FRANK SMITH, married Nancy Jean Kasmarik in Latrobe, Pa. I'm sure I speak for us all in conveying our sincere wishes to both of them for every joy and happiness in the years ahead (and our sincere hope that Nancy knew what she was getting into). 
Next in order of precedence must come congratulations to the new parents in the class. This month's awards go to the HERRs and SCRIPPs (again). Mathew William Herr dropped in to stay with BOB and Andrea for a while. He weighed in at 8 lbs. 9 oz. on August 3. And it was a second girl, Susanna, for JOHN and Sue Scripp. 
Europe will probably never be the same. As if the New Economic Policy was not enough, London, Paris, and Rome were all blitzed by that terrible trio of TOM CURTIN, LARRY BONENBERGER, and JOHN COYLE during this past summer. According to JC, a good time was had by all. (I wonder if he means the English, French, and Italians, too?) JC also writes that DICK KIRCH has now completed working on his master's at N.Y.U. and will soon be heading back to California. JC himself is working with a small firm in Newark. DENNIS COLLINS is now with the NLRB in St. Louis, Mo., and living with CHARLIE WEISS. JIM COOLING is in private practice with a firm in Kansas City. JOHN and Pat PUSEY have just bought a new home in Peoria. To Pat, though, it doesn't seem like John spends a great deal of time there. In addition to a heavy load of trial work, John is working as. a volunteer attorney and counselor with a local court counselling program for youthful offenders. As if that were not enou^, he has just recently been elected president of the Peoria ND Club. 
^Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as oj Sept. 30, 1971. 
In early August, DICK and Laurie 
MANNING hosted a mini class reunion in 
Chicago with TOM WARD as guest of 
honor. Tom had been in Madison, Wis., 
taking some courses before heading to teach 
down in South Carolina. Present at the get-
together were JACK, and Carol SANDNER, 
SKIP and Mary Ann GRIFFIN, BILL and 
Kathy COLEMAN, MIKE and Juanita 
WILLIAMSON, and LOU BIANCI. 
OWEN and Vicki LOPEZ are now 
happily settled in Santa Fe, according to 
Owen an "almost ideal place to live." As 
most of you know, Owen and Vicki were 
married in April of 1969. Among those in 
attendance at the wedding were JOE 
LADD, JIM and Kathy McGOVERN, 
DENNIS COLLINS, CHARLIE WEISS, 
and Professor RODES. After completing his 
clerkship with Judge Oliver Seth of the 
Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals, Owen 
joined a firm in private practice in Taos, 
N.M. After eight months of burdensome commuting, he decided that a change of location was in order and made the change­over to a small firm in Santa Fe. Accord­ing to Owen, he "couldn't be happier" with his present arrangement and anticipates that it will be permanent. 
While passing through Chicago in June, Owen spoke with Joe Ladd who, he reports, is enjoying private practice and doing an "inordinate" amount of sailing on Lake Michigan ("and still chasing all the 'chicks' "). CHRIS CARROL is both practicing law and teaching high school in Ohio. JIM HANCOCK has resigned as assistant U.S. attorney in Las Vegas and, at last report, was contemplating returning to grad school for an advanced degree in English. Finally, PAT PACELLA has left Oklahoma and returned to private practice in Youngstown, Ohio. 
That's about it for now. Please note the new address and drop a line. 
Dennis C. Thelen 
1400 S. Joyce SL 
Apt. B712 
Arlington, Va. 22202 
'69 NO CUTS 21.7^ 
The Irish continue to succeed and we can­not help but recall the good times we had for four years. The professional life is nice but without unlimited cuts it certainly can drag at times. 
JUAN ANDUJAR wrote from Cali, Colombia to report on our Latin American classmates. CARLOS MOLINA'S father 
died and he took on the hard task of run­ning the family's business which he has done well. GERMAN CALLE is with International Petroleum in Cartagena, Colombia, as an industrial salesman. He misses all the football, pizzas. Bud and girls. MAURICIO CANO is working with Coltejer, a Colombian textile firm, in their export department RODRIGO URIBE '70 is a salesman with FUTEC, a foundry in Medellin. Last July GUSTAVO MOLINA '70 was married to, Maria Isabel Estrada his long-time girl triend. Several NDers were able to attend the affair. 
Juan had a teaching assistantship at ND while working for his master's in mechan­ical engineering. Currently he's employed with Carton de Colombia (subsidiary of Container Corp.) as a controller for their mills division. He invites everyone to visit south of the border noting that Cali was the home bf the VI Pan American Games. 
Received a couple letters this month from the women in our lives. Mrs. DAVID PRUSIECKI, the former Cynthia Niero of Flemington, NJ. informs us she and Dave were married July 17. JIM SINCLAIR and JOHN CORGAN assisted as ushers. Before the wedding Dave spent eight months in the Western Pacific off Vietnam, for which he was awarded the Navy Achievement Medal for outstanding performance. Cur­rently he is serving as Staff Operations Officer in Long Beach, Calif. 
Mrs. CHARLES HOF wrote to say her son is stationed in Los Angeles with Navy Space Systems Activity. JOHN KOEPPEL Chuck's roommate, entered the Air Force in Laredo, Tex. and ED RETTERER is somewhere in Germany with the U.S. Army. 
Military intelligence has located MARTIN (Rip) McCOY at Luke AFB, Arizona. Rip just graduated from a special training course for F-lOO Super Sabre Pilots. BOB DEPIERRE finished his navigator training at Mather AFB, Calif. Bob will remain there as an electronic warfare trainee. 
Keep sending those cards and letters. Your classmates are anxious to hear what you've been doing for two years. One short note will keep everyone informed. 
Take care. 
Mike Neumeister 64 West Winspear Ave. Buffalo, N.Y. 14214 
'69L ALL-TIME DOMER 
The absence of my column in the two preceding issues was based upon a com-mum'cation gap-^about two issues worth of gap! By the mailing of this issue I hope that most of us at least will have been able to meet at one of the home games. 
As you must all know by now, in a surprise upset in the ratings JIM (Star) STARSHAK has been surpassed in his position of "greatest Domer of all time" by TIM MCLAUGHLIN. Tim and his family have returned to South Bend to live, selecting a homesite nearly 90 miles closer to the Dome than that of the former all-time greaL 
There appears to be a significantly in­creasing number of lineal descendants of the class members of '69 Law. Susan and DENNIS MACKIN have a second daughter, Mary Frances. Dennis has recently joined the staff of the Fulton County District Attorney in Atlanta. Cathy and JIM BRADY'S second child is a boy: Michael George. Peggy and DAN HEBERT are expecting No. 3 in February. 
The Brady family hosted the HEBERTs, the STAMPS and the TROGANs for a weekend in August. Cathy dropped a line to advise that VINCE STAMP spent five months in the active reserves at Ft. Polk and at Ft. Sam Houston and now has only his yearly summer duty to look forward to. He and Anne are presently living in Cin­cinnati. NICK TROGAN has opened his own law practice in Saginaw, Mich. 
JOE (Zep) FRANTIN, as most of you know by now, is living in Coconut Grove, Fla., and attending Miami law School for his LL.M. in Taxation. I am pleased to report that he got an "A" from Prof. Chaumee. 
Patsy and I took a brief trip to San Francisco this summer. While passing through the L.A. area we tried to reach JEFF CAVANAUGH without success. Where are you now, Mr. Cavanaugh? Meanwhile, Denver is increasing its ranks of practicing ND Law alumni. JIM ZAK has moved in with afirm in a nearby suburb and settled the Zak household in Denver. 
Scott Atwell 
1050 Lafayette No. 501 
Denver, Colo. 80218 
'69MBA LOST IS FOUND 
We were pleased to hear from one of the 
long lost brethren when we received a letter 
from DUANE MERTL. Here's Dewey's 
two-year progress report: Nine days after 
graduation, Dewey joined the staff of one 
of our largest finns, the VS. Anny. After 
training and working at Fort Leonard Wood, 
Pvt. Mertl was sent to Vietnam in March, 
1970. Fortunately, an office job rather than 
a foxhole awaited him there. After spending 
nearly a year in Vietnam, he returned to 
the U.S. and an early discharge in February. 
He has recently taken a position with a 
bank in Michigan City, Ind. His address 
there is 2904 Roslyn Trail, Michigan City, 
Ind. 46360. As the AU-MBA wide receiver 
on our intra-mural team, Dewey asked 
about the other members of that nationally 
ranked squad. So let's hear from that group 
of pseudo-jocks. 
An address change reported by KEN 
CULLUM is as follows: 1716 Havenwood 
Drive, Richmond, Va. 23233. 
It seems that nearly all the pollsters have 
put the usual pressure on Ara's Irish by 
ranking them Number 1. As I write this, 
Linda and I are looking forward to being 
in South Bend to see the opener against 
Northwestern. We hope to see some of you 
there and gather some information which 
will allow us to report on the activities of 
more MBA's in the next colunm. 
Joe Cavato 
7122 Vernon 
University City, Mo. 63130 
'70 FLEET'S IN 19.0%* 
Just as I prepared to compose this month's class report, I was greeted by the smiling face of none other than CHRISTOPHER 
E. SERVANT. Since Springfield, 111., is not a Navy town, I inquired of Lieut. Siervant the reason for his visit The reply was astounding! The Navy, on an economy kick, is releasing junior officers early. Chris, for this reason, was given an honorable discharge after IS months, thereby saving 21 months of active duty. He is now slowly winding his way back to Attleboro Falls, Mass., where he will try to decide what to do with himself. His current idea is operat­ing an ice cream parlor, but I think he was a little touched by the heat 
Another ^obe traveler made his way through Springfield at summer's end, but this time I wasn't home. Remember Hiuri­cane Doria in August? Well, the blustery old gal kept me at Cape Cod long enough to miss KELLY KNAUER, fresh from a summer in Europe. He spent a few weeks at his home in Springfield-the-lesser (Mis­souri) before trekking back to !.^rist the King School in Middle Village, N.Y. I expect a full report soon. 
ReUy's feUow teacher MICHAEL MOR­RISSEY has temporarily sdiandoned formal academic pursuits in favor of a personal investigation of Lake Mendota in Madison. Mike will sail the Wisconsin waters until Jack Frost nips his nose. Then on to Fitch­burg, Mass., unt0 February, when he will make the grand tour of &irope. Two of his sisters live there now and Mike i^ans to inspect their quarters. Hopefully, too, he wni find a way to destabilize the European currencies enough to make the dollar appear sound again. 
On my way back home at the end of August I stopped at ND to visit my old 
roommate TONY ALHOLM. Tony has just 
begun the third of a new four-year law 
program there. He reported that his London 
experience was wonderful. ND's contract 
with the U. of London expired, and the 
program is being revised considerably. Most 
important is the fact that ND contracts 
individual teachers rather than a whole 
school to teach the 2S second-year students. 
Fr, WILLIAM LEWERS of our law school 
will be resident coordinator this year. Join­
ing him will be at least two of our class, 
RON BASSO and JOHN KREIS. Both 
were aware of potential communication 
problems in a foreign country, and inten­
sively studied the language this summer. 
Although I'm not a law student, I do 
enjoy parties, so I stayed for the annual 
student-faculty picnic. Several old class­
mates were there, including BOB RIGNEY, 
PAT McDONOUGH, and ED SMITH, 
who is teaching a freshman section of the 
expanded collegiate seminar course. After 
listening to him as devil's advocate in our 
junior year with Professor Chris Powers 
(still at Assumption College I presume) 
I'm sure he will be a fine teacher. 

Another familiar face at ND last month 
was JOE BRADLEY, who is now a first-
year law student. He taught at a junior high 
school in South Bend last year and was 
kind enough to pick me up as I hitched to 
Frankie's from the new, improved Circle. 
The guardhouse is now in the middle of 
the street, allowing passage of twice as 
much traffic. Down at Frankie's I ran into 
TAL YOUNG, who was granted a C. O. 
last year and is doing alternate service as 
an orderly at Memorial Hospital. A fellow 
dropout from chemistry, he was especially 
good to see. Tal reported that our freshman 
class president, LEO KLEMM, is now 

living in Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, and teach­
ing at a Catholic school across the border 
in Laredo, Tex. 

I heard from MIKE O'BRIEN several 
weeks ago in Frankfurt, Germany. He's 
trying to make the base traveling tennis 
team and so far feels he- has a good chance. 
I wish him luck, but want him to know the 
Washington U. Medical School Softball 
team wants him to hurry back to catch for 
us. This year could be tough without him. 
In case you forgot, O'B was at Ft. Leonard 
Wood last spring and visited us every week­
end in St. Louis. 

FRED NACHTWEG and I had a nice dinner in July with BILL and Ruth SOR­RELL, just before they left for the East. Bill is now at Cornell Law, while Ruth is finishing her training in occupational therapy in Boston and will join him in Ithaca early next year. (I presume there will be interim visits, however.) 
Also in Boston will be RICH MORAN, now in his second year at Tufts graduate in English; KEVIN MYLES at Suffolk Law School. DENNY CLARK, PAT DOW­DALL and JOHN GARVEY are also studying in Boston, but their roommate of last year, LARRY KICKHAM has finished his studying. Larry now holds a master's degree in accounting from Northeastern U. and will take the CPA exam in November. Best of luck, Larry! 
A little Texas news is now in order. PAT BARBOLLA is a 2nd-year law student at Texas and in the top half of his class. At last report he was working for the Fort Worth district attorney and hoped to make the Law Review this year. FRANK Mc-NALLY is working for Prudential in North Texas and will be married this falL Also tying the knot will be LARRY MOSER in November. 
FRANK SESAK, whom I had seen at the ND-Missouri game in Columbia last fall, is now working in Lorain, Ohio. After six months in the Army Reserve he is making a bid for a CO. 
PAUL WHITE is at Ohio U. studying economics. 

MIKE McALEER reported he saw DON SCHMIDT and his wife recently in San Diego. They were trading commanding officers, and now Don is on the U.S.S. Iwo lima LPH-Z. PAUL RODGERS has joined the Concerned Officers Movement, accord­ing to Mike. I'd like to hear some more about the organization, if anyone knows. 
JACK and WILL PIERCE are still living in San Diego (as of August), although Jack at that time was deployed on a two-month turnaround cruise. 
JOEL CICERELLA was working in Toledo in a hospital for his CO. alternate service. In July he left to look for another position. 
Mike (who certainly is good for news) had a final report on Authentically Merri­weather, that talented group of folk artists from our class. He had heard that TONY DEL FAVERO and TOM CONNOLLY were on tour, although the whereabouts of RICH MEEHAN and DENNY WILLIAMS were unknown to him. 
That rounds out the news this month. Now it's back to work as I immerse myself in an 1800-page pharmacology book. 
Don Graham 1155 Claytonia Richmond Heights, Mo. 63117 

'71 FROM THE BETTER HALF 3.0%^ 
I'm not too long on news this month but I will pass along what I've got. I received a letter from Lois Ann Walsh, who married KEN WALSH in June. Lois wrote to tell me that she and Kenny are now living in South Bend. He's starting Law School at ND this fall and she works for ND's Sports Information Department. 
I also heard from Cathy and JACK SCHAEFER. They are now living in Stur­btidge, Mass., Jack has a job with Reynolds Aluminum. He probably expects to get a cut rate on some metal skis. I know be and Cath plan to wear theirs out this winter. 
Word has it that a few '71 grads sweated out the summer at Army training camps. JOHN ZURCHER and DAN DELL'ORTO were at Ft. Riley, Kan. CHARLES DE­MONACO, LARRY LEROY and PETE MOULDER put in their time at Ft. Knox, Ky. 
I had a few complaints about my last column from DENNY CONROY and PAUL HICKEY. Rumor has it that they accused me of deliberately not mentioning them although I knew that they are at the Navy's Supply School in Athens, Ga. I didn't really do it on purpose. All I was trying to do was avoid thinking about the wild weekends they are having, while I study. 
BERNIE RYAN is getting MBA from Wayne State U. at night. He works for the 
U.A.W. in Detroit during the day. Bemie never was satisfied with just sitting around taking it easy. 
One other bit of good news is that JOE SCHAPPERT will be going to George Washington Medical School this fall. I haven't heard from Joe but I hear things look pretty good in D.C 
Until we meet again, peace. 
Tony Earley 1505 E. 4th St. Bem'cia, Calif. 94510 

'71 MBA STORK CLUB ._ 
Since our last column the stork has been both busy and well-traveled. He stopped in South Bend on Aug. 19 to deliver John Anthony to STEVE and Louise ANELLA (1st boy, third child), then reappeared in Albuquerque Aug. 21 with Laura Jean for TONY and Helena STRATI (2nd giri. 

third child). Congrats to mothers and fathers alike. Wonder what a college edu­cation for these kids will cost in 1988? 
Talked to KEVIN TINNEY recenUy; he's on the road quite a bit with Associates and has moved into Scottsdale (about VA miles south of our home). 
Had occasion to ask STEVE ANELLA for some professional architectural advice— well, they say that the M.B.A. doesn't have to know everything—only where to get the information!! 
Speaking of M.B.A.'s, I'm told that 97 first-year students entered the program this fall. 
Leona Pestka and Monica Groom were visiting the IMPARATOs in mid-August and we had them all over for a cookout. JOHN PESTKA is on special projects with WE in Chicago and GARY GROOM is busy taking the C.P.A. review course for November's exam. 
Not much else new, the HENNs took a five-day vacation over Labor Day—stopped off in Indianapolis, and then spent two days in a cabin at McCormick's Creek State Park. We took a three-mile hike through the park—it was grueling and yours truly had to go the complete hike without a Camel—that's what I call roughing it. 
Mike Henn 
1955 Trent Way 
South Bend, Ind. 
CHE.MISTRY 
Reilly lecturers scheduled this semester include Or. Earl L. Muettenies, associate director of research at the Central Research Laboratory, du Pont Co. and adjunct pro­fessor of chemistry at the U. of Pennsyl­vania, the week of Oct. 13; Pro. Leo A. Paquette of the Ohio State U., Nov. 8-12; and Dr. Joseph J. Katz of the Argonne National Laboratory Nov. 29-Dec. 3. 
Among those who recently received, or completed the requirements for, the Ph.D. are GEORGE ABELL, postdoctoring in the Radiation Laboratory; MERLE ARNOLD, engaged in postdoctoral research at the Catholic University; CHARLES BATTEN, postdoctoring with GERRY MEISELS '56 at the U. of Houston; SUSAN LESKO, at Altoona Hospital, Altoona, Pa.; JOAN MAY, at Roswell Park Memorial Institute, Buffalo, N.Y.; TOSHIAKI MATSUSHIGE; ROBERT NORRIS, a research associate at Louisiana State U.; and DONALD PUCCI, postdoctoring at the U. of Michigan. 
ARMAND BOISSELLE '61 has recently joined the law firm of Oberlin, Maky, Donnelly & Renner in Cleveland. JACK DUGAN '65, with NASA at the Lewis Research Center in Cleveland, presented three papers at the International Conference on Electronic and Atomic Collisions in Amsterdam and chaired a session on ap­plications of computer films to molecular collisions. PAUL HOPPER '51 has recently joined the General Foods Corp. as director of environmental sciences, Tarrytown, N.Y. 
Recent visitors to the campus included GIANCARLO BERTI '53 professor at the 
U. of Pisa, who presented a paper at the 
'Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of Sept. 30, 1971. 
lUPAC Meeting in Boston in July; Sr. IRMA GERBER OP '57, returning from a summer of research at the U. of Utah; Sr. MARY O'ROURKE SCL '67 from the NSF institute on applications of computer science to chemistry at NYU; and FRANK '33 and JOHN BS '56 (Ph.D. U. of Penn­sylvania, now teaching at Union College, Schenectady, N.Y.) SOWA. Frank's fifth son Joe is a junior at ND. 
Bro. Columba Curran CSC Department of Chemistry Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
HISTORY 
As the fall terra began the most noteworthy immediate change in the affairs of the Department of History was the retirement of VINCENT DE SANTIS as departmental chairman. Prof. De Santis led us ably for nearly a decade and deserves the best wishes of all of us as he returns to full-time teaching and research. He has been replaced by PHILIP GLEASON. Phil received his Ph.D. from ND and has been an esteemed member of our faculty since 1959. Our congratulations to Phil, who assumes the unenviable task of working out the in­numerable practical details of the imminent merger with St. Mary's. Congratulations are also in order to RICHARD BALFE, a member of the Loras College History faculty since 1958, who was recently elevated to the chairmanship there. 
Among the more enjoyable events of the summer here were long chats with RAMON ABARCA from Canisius College and WALTER GRAY from Loyola, both of whom visited friends in South Bend. Walter had just returned from a year in Rome. (By contrast, I feel cosmopolitan anymore if I spend an afternoon in Mishawaka.) 
RICHARD BOURLAND is teaching at St. Mary's this year. 
Social Notes—On Sept. 7 the Union of Graduate Historians (UGH) launched the new school year with an outdoor picnic at the home of Mr. and Mrs. ALFRED ROACH. This was followed by the annual History Department reception at the Uni­versity Club 10 days later. The purpose in both cases was to promote camaraderie among new graduate students, UGH veterans, and faculty members. Success was iidmirable on both occasions. t'-Near the end of the spring Softball season a "day" was held for your correspondent. It was replete with the gifts, speeches and refreshments common on these occasions. Detractors said the purpose was to single out the Most Decrepit Participant in Twentieth-century Sports. (Somehow, I had always thought of my activities as an en­deavor to bridge the generation gap.) Near the end of the summer season a similar "day" was held to honor RICHARD WALTERS. Of all the famous huriers who have performed through the years in the ND graduate Softball league Dick not only totalled the most lifetime victories but also compiled a sparkling 14-2 record in 1971. During his "day" it was suggested that Dick's right arm be sent to Coopers­town, a proposal subsequently abandoned for technical reasons. It was then proposed that since Walters' earned-run average has sometimes been compared with that of Vida Blue, and since Blue was given a blue Cadillac last spring, that Walters be given a red Cadillac now. Because Dick's athletic achievements, not only in Softball but as player-coach of the basketball team, have reflected great credit on the whole profession of history, it seemed only fair that you readers be invited to contribute to the purchase of the Cadillac. The procedure is absurdly simple. Nothing to buy. No jingles to write. No forms to fill out. Just 
pin a $10 bill on a. 6-cent postcard and mail it to "Red Cadillac," Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Bernard Norling G66 Memorial Library Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
LAW 
Prof. Mike Mclntire addressed the New York State Bar Association, Section on Insurance, Negligence and Compensation at Cooperstown, N.Y., regarding an environ­mental law program. 
The Law School registered 150 freshmen this year. The last LSAT average was over 600, and the average cumulative grade was 
3.3 on a 4.0 scale. The students represented nearly 100 different colleges and universities. 
Dean THOMAS SHAFFER '61 served on a panel Sept. 23 and Oct.-7 concerning the new Indiana Trust Code sponsored by the Indiana Continuing Educational Fund. Twenty-six students have left for the new London program under Fr. William Lewers' supervision. Assistant visiting professor, Chris Osakwe, Professor of International Law, has recently published an article in the American Journal of International Law on contemporary Soviet doctrine on the juridical nature of universal international organizations in Volume 65 of the 1971 issue. Prof. Osakwe has also coauthored "Agreements of International Orgam'zations and the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties." 
Prof. Bud Murdock will teach a joint program on minority business planning in the Law School and School of Business Administration. 
Prof. Chris Osakwe and Prof. FER­NAND DUTILE '65, are now on campus. 
Prof. Bob Rodes is back in Hoynes after two years in Britain. Prof. GERALD GALLIVAN '61, U. of Wyoming Law School, visited here Aug. 24-25, and Assist­ant Dean GERALD CAVANAUGH '69, Loyola of Los Angeles, visited oh Aug. 14-15. 
THOMAS M. WARD '68, is now assistant professor of law at the U. of South Carolina Law School. 
Leslie G. Foschio Law School Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
PHYSICS 
According to the August 1971 Commence­ment Exercises Bulletin, the ranks of our Physics Ph.D. alumni have now been in­creased from 169 to 174 members. The five newest members of this very illustrious group are KENNETH W. BRODA (theoretical physics), KEVIN W. COR­RIGAN (nuclear physics), PAUL M. DeLUCA (nuclear physics), STEPHEN 
A. LONGO (theoretical physics), and DENNIS R. ZOLNOWSKI (nuclear spectroscopy). Broda accepted a teaching position at Canisius College, Longo is now an assistant professor of physics at LaSalle College, and Zolnowski is a postdoctoral fellow in the Cyclotron Institute at Texas A&M. DeLuca accepted a postdoctoral research associateship in the Department of Radiology at the U. of Wisconsin, where he joins three other former ND physics graduate students, Jim Hevezi, Chuck Kelsey, and George Spalek. Kevin Corrigan is still with us on a temporary appointment, while preparing the results of his work for publication. 
Nine new graduate students joined the department this year, giving us a total of 56 graduate students for the 1971-72 academic year. There are 73 undergraduates (sophomores, juniors and seniors) in the department this year, and about 29 fresh­man physics intents. 
Now for a few more names, addresses, and accounts of activities of some of our older physics Ph.D. alumni. 
FRANCIS G. NAGASAKA '56 (the­oretical physics), wife Akiko, and five children, Michiko, Naoka, Kiyoshio, Etsuko, and Itaiu live at 65 Yamazato-cho, Showa-ku, Nagoya, Japan 466. Frank received his B.S. degree from Tokyo University in 1949, and came to ND for his graduate work in physics. He currently holds the rank of professor at Nanzan U. He is a member of the Physical Society of Japan, and also of the Japanese Philosophy of Science Association. Frank stopped in for a brief visit about a year ago, on the occasion of a visit to this country to deliver a paper on the philosophy of science at a meeting held in Boston. 
CARL G. ADLER '66 (theoretical physics), wife Catherine, and two children (as of April, 1968, report) live at 217 Harmony St., Greenville, N.C. 27834. Carl received his B.S. in physics degree from ND in 1961, and stayed on for his graduate work in physics. At last report, he held the rank of associate professor of physics at East Carolina U., Greenville, N.C. 
WILLIAM R. ALLING '65 (theoreUcal physics), lives at Rt 1, Moorhead, Minn. 56560. At last report (April 1968) Bill was still single. Bill came to ND from LeMoyne College where he received his B.S. in physics degree in 1958. After receiving his Ph.D., Bill went to Moorhead State College as an assistant professor of physics. He was promoted to associate professor in 1966, and since January of 1966 he has been serving as chairman of the Department of Physics at Moorhead. 
That's all for this time. 
Robert L. Anthony Department of Physics Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
ATLANTA 
On Aug. 14, the ND Club of Atlanta put on its annual family picnic at the Mathis Dairy Farm. The picnic was especially enjoyable by reason of the presence of a number of the incoming freshman students from the North Georgia area. The students who were present were: Michael R. Snider, Jules C. Beale, William K. Principe, and Joseph J. Gaspierik. The ND alumni who attended were: BOB MULSHINE '63, PETE MURRAY '64, FRANK COTTER '65, PAUL LOMBARDI '60. BOB HUETZ '58, LOU LONCARIC '57, PETE DANCE '65. and BILL RICH '64. 
'The club has planned a number of functions for the near future: An infor­mation day program for prospective stu­dents, a party after the Georgia Tech-ND basketball game in January and a party in connection with the televised broadcast of one of the football games. 
WiUiam N. Rich '64 
BOSTON 
On Sept. I we had the first joint freshman sendoff for St Mary's and ND students. The event took place at the Fargo Naval Building under the chairmanship of our past Boston Club president. ARTHUR MURPHY '59. Representing the St. Mary's Club of Boston were the president. Marge Belander and the secretary, Noreen Burke. Approxi­mately 80 guests attended—10 St. Maiy's 
ladies and 30 ND men, along with their 
fathers. 

We were very fortunate to have JOHN 
MOROZ '70 and Anne Patterson SMC '71 
address the incoming freshmen. Also, Val 
Madden '73 answered many questions the 
freshmen had concerning University life. 
It was a very successful affair. JACK 
KARLE '56 introduced the scholarship 
winners, Charles R. Falcione '75 from 

Shrewsbury and George Sibley '75 from 
Gloucester. The ND Club of Boston is very 
proud of the new freshmen from our local 
area and wishes them continued success at 
the University. 

Congratulations to JOHN MAZUR '52 
on his team's victory 20-6 over the Oakland 
Raiders. Also, to JOHN MEYER, '65, 

assistant coach to Mazur, who also did a 
fine job. 

CHUCK PATTERSON '47 is chairman 
of the pilot Alumni Fund raising program 
in the Boston area. Also serving on the 
board are LOUIS DiGOVANNI '49, 

RICHARD P. HYLAND '50, JOHN Mc-
CULLOUGH '63 and ROBERT LYNCH 
'49. 

WILLOUGHLOY M. MARSHALL '47 
vice chairman of the New England Litur­
gical Committee, had a Liturgical Week at 
Cranwell, Mass. Representing the University 
as-a keynote speaker was Fr. Burtchaell, 
CSC, Provost of the University and Dr. 
William Storey, professor of Liturgical 

Studies at KD. They, with other learned 
individuals, discussed the new liturgy in 
the Church. 
David A. Fay '60 
BUFFALO 

The ND Club of Buffalo extends its con­
gratulations to former president Dr. 

MARVIN J. LAHOOD '58 on his appoint­
ment as academic dean at Misericordia 

College, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. The presidency 
of the club passed into the able hands of 
Vice President DAN BRICK '65, attorney, 
until the election of PATRICK RYAN '67. 
Friday, the 13th, was a lucky day for HARRY QUINN, '53, the winner of the annual golf outing. JOHN ALLEN '56 handled the successful event in which 30 alumni participated. 
The annual freshman sendoff, for the first time, included the St. Mary's girls. BILL O'CONNOR '64 and BILL KANE '59 were in charge and the club was the guest of John LaDuca and the Buffalo Savings Bank. 
And finally, local alumni will have the opportunity to watch all the ND football games this year, as a new local station will telecast Irish Football on Sunday mornings and again Sunday evenings. 
James P. Julian '69 
CENIRAL CALIFORNIA 

The ND Club of Central California's Football Weekend Sweepstakes winner is Mrs. H. R. Wilson of Modesto, Calif. Mrs. Wilson, a widow, made the trip to the Southern California game with her son. The Club president, Andre P. Provost, wishes to thank all who assisted in the project. 
David C. Hudson '61 
CENTRAL JERSEY 
The recent election of officers for the 

Central Jersey Club saw DAVE GIBBONS 
'64 take office as president. Assisting Dave 
wiU be DAVE COLLINS '56, vice presi­
dent; HOWARD J. GILLESPIE '34, 
secretary; PAT KEALY '65, treasurer. 

Gibbons succeeds NORRIS HARDING '57 
who held the president's office for two 
fruitful years. 
The annual golf outing and dinner was 
held in June and the winner of the trophy 

was DAN GRACE '51. Scoring was on the 
Callaway system and out of respect for 
Dan's family and friends we will not dis­

close his score. It is enough to say that his 
handicap was higher than his net score. 
Through an unfortunate error, the outing 
was held on primary day and there is still 
on the books in the town where the club 
is located an archaic law banning the sale 
or serving of liquor on election days. ND 
ingenuity came to the fore and no one 
went thirsty. We now know what Texans 


mean by brown baggers. The outing was to 
be repeated on Sept. 28 at the same club— 
Fiddler's Elbow. 
The annual freshman sendoff was held 
on Aug. 30 in combination with the New 
Jersey Club and was attended by over one 
hundred incoming men and their parents. 
JIM GIBBONS '53 attended and gave his 
usual fine presentation. 
Future events include a wine-lasting party. Communion breakfast and trip to the Garden for the ND basketball game with North Carolina. We invite all resident alumni in the Central Jersey area to par­ticipate in the club activities. For infor­mation, you can call me during the week at 796-1311 or weekends and evenings at 232-3413. Dave Gibbons can be reached at the Cranford Motor Lodge just off the Garden State Parkway in Cranford, tele­phone 272-4700. The Lodge is a great place and serves fine meals. Convenient to New York, being only 30 minutes from Manhattan. If there is any charge for advertising, send it to Dave. 
Howard J. Gillespie '34 
CINCINNATI 

The Cincinnati Club held the annual fresh­man picnic at Mt. Airy Forest to welcome all incoming freshmen. The annual softball game between alumni and students was again won by the veterans. Following the game a steak dinner prepared by chefs, and chairmen PAUL KELLEY '66 and TOM HOCK '69, was served. Special congratu­lations go to Paul and Tom for the success of the outing. FRED WOLTNIZEK '69 won two season tickets to the Cincinnati Bengals games. 
Timothy D. Schilling '69 
CLEVELAND 

On July 9, the Cleveland Club held its annual golf party at Tanglewood Country Club. Mike Stock, assistant ND football coach, showed movies of the 1971 Cotton Bowl victory and addressed the assembly concerning the Fighting Irish. One hundred alumni were present to enjoy the cocktail party, dinner, entertainment and prizes. The grand prize was a set of custom-made irons won by Joe Mawby. Also present was Eric Pennis, a freshman at ND, attending with a football scholarship. Eric is a past state champion in track and an all scholastic Cleveland area football irilayer. Congratu­lations go to the golf party co-chairmen, JOHN HUMMER '57 and BOB SCHRINER On Aug. 24, student orientation night was 
held at the St. John's College Auditorium 
for the Cleveland area 1971 ND-SMC 
freshman class. TONY and Julie DeBAG-
GIS did a great job in organizing and 
coordinating this affair as co-chairmen. 
Forty-five students and parents listened to 
speakers from the St. Mary's and ND 
Alumni offices. Gary MetaJois, president of 
the Cleveland Club Student Organization, 
welcomed the incoming freshmen and spoke 
of his organization's activities on the 
campus as well as in the Cleveland area. 
The Alumni Assoc, was delighted by the 
student participation in this affair. The 
meeting broke into small groups according 
to the number of colleges at ND, with 
Cleveland area alumni from these respective 
colleges running each group. 
President FRED FRIEND will be an­

nouncing the new board of directors as well 
as a schedule of this year's Alumni 
activities and the Chairmen who will preside. 
Good luck to FRANK GAUL '49 and 

NICK DEVITO '63 both of whom are 
running as candidates for Cleveland City 
Council in the upcoming fall election. 
Dennis F. BuUer '62. 
COLUMBUS 
On Aug. 28, the Columbus Club held its 
annual alumni-student picnic. A new twist 
was added this year by combining the fresh­
man orientation with the picnic. President 
TOM GERLACHER '64 chaired the picmc 
and JOHN GUENIN "62 oriented the fresh­
men. It was a mutual orientation; the 
freshmen learned beer drinking and poker, 
and John learned how your ribs can get 
cracked in an ND "touch" football game. 
The alumni were, as always, victorious, but 
this year the students defaulted by lack of 
numbers. The "exhibition" game was hard 
fought and required much liquid "balm" 
to soothe the sores it caused. As usual, 
much money changed hands at the poker 
tables, and much chicken was consumed. 
Next year the alumni hope to continue 
their win streak, but not by a hollow 
default—let's see more of you there next year. 
Bob O'Shaughnessy '66 
DALLAS 
Notre Dame Information Night was held Aug. 27 at Holy Trinity Auditorium and was attended by approximately 75 people. TOM SULLIVAN '66 was on hand from the University to answer questions on subjects ranging from the prospects for the coming football season to the merger between ND and SMC. As usual, Tom did an excellent job and we look forward to having him in town again soon. 
The club also took this occasion to intro­duce and welcome incoming ND and St. Mary's freshmen and their parents. We wish the new students well in their college studies. We would like to express our sincere thanks to MIKE McDONOUGH '63 and his crew for a job well done for this-gathering of the Irish clan. 
TTirough the efforts of local radio station KIXL and the generosity of some loyal alumni, ND fans in this area will be able 
'51. These co-chairmen did an excellent job and the Association extends its appreciation. 
to listen to all the Fighting Irish football 
games this season. We are extremely grate­
ful to Dick Bove, station manager, and 
ART DURBIN '29 of Texas Distributors, JACK SCHROEDER '44 of Fieldcrest/ St. Mary's, JOHN RODGERS '55 of Wynnewood State Bank, SAM WING 
'44 of Sam A. Wing Company, VICK 
CLESI Jr. '58 of Saffron Tree Restaurant 
and CHICK MARTIN '59 of Schneider, 
Bemet, and Hickman, for their support of 
ND footbaU. 
Coming events include a resumption of the monthly men's luncheon after a summer recess, a club home Mass, a ladies' sherry party, and the Christmas scholarship fund party. 
Jerome J. Bradley '64 
DAYTON 
The ND Club of Dayton held its annual golf outing and steak cook-out at the Walnut Grove Country Club on Aug. 26. Fifty members turned out. Golf prize winners were: Low gross. Dr. LC5UIS HALEY '50; low net, JIM BRITT '53; Paul Lammers trophy, JACK O'BRIEN '41 and longest drive (300 yards?), MIKE HERR •65. 
The 1972 officers were elected at the outing. They are: JOHN D. O'BRIEN '66, president; LARRY DONLIN '65, vice president; JIM BORCHERS '70, vice presi­dent and JIM IRETON '66, secretary-treasurer. These new trustees also were elected: WILLIAM SEALL '68, PETE DONAHUE '51 and Ireton. 
In the evening of Aug. 31 the Dayton Club held a sendoff for the first coedu­cational ND freshman class at the Dayton Country Club. A panel of recent graduates, Borchers, Ellen Hansman SMC '71 and STEVE COOKE '71, discussed with fresh­men and their parents what to expect during their first year at ND. 
Upcoming events for the club are an informal get-togelher for one of the tele­vised ND football games and a game party for :he annual basketball game between the 
U. of Dayton and ND. 
James E. Ireton '66 
DELAWARE 
The summer picnic was held Aug. 22 at the home of ART and Ruth BAUM '36 with 74 persons attending. PAUL CLEMENS '57 and DENNY PETRILLO '61 were chair­men of the event. Others there were the families of LEX PETRILLO '54, TOM McNAMARA '51, JIM VACHRIS '55, JIM KEEGAN '59, ROBERT KANE '49, MARK FAULHABER '56, TOM DILLON '66, Ed Dillon, and DAN MOTZ '54. TOM DEGNAN '42 and JACK McVEIGH '51 were loners. The largest family there were the McNamaras with 11, including Kevin who is spending the summer with Tom and Jan in conjunction with the New York City Fresh Air Program. 
A touch footbaU game was scheduled for Sept. 12 at the Boys Home of Delaware. Results later. 
This year an ND man starred in the Longwood Gardens Open Air Theater. Our former club president, BOB DALEY '58, played a leading role in "Rose Marie." Jack McVeigh worked behind the scenes. 
In arranging the picnic we learned that 
J. DAVID SCHLAAK '56 is moving to Ohio in October and that GEORGE RAAB '59 has moved to Chicago. 
Our Universal ND Night was successful and enjoyable with MICHAEL JORDAN '68, assistant director of the Alumni Association, as speaker. 
James E. Vachris '55 
DENVER 
The Denver Club completed its summer activities with two excellent events. On July 24, Crestmoor Pool was the scene of the annual family picnic. FRANK POTENZIANI '67 and his committee did a superb job in making arrangements for a delightful evening. Needless to say, there was plenty to drink and the swimming and various games and races provided great entertainment for both young and old. 
TOM BENSON '64 is to be commended 
on the fine turnout for freshman orientation 
which was held on the evening of Aug. 25. 
Ten freshmen plus several underclassmen, 
alumni and wives were present. The evening 
began as an informal gathering and was 
concluded by a panel discussion of the 
underclassmen informing the new freshmen 
about what to expect at the University. "The 
freshmen found the evening to be most 
informative and responded with many 
questions to the underclassmen and alumni. 
DICK McMANUS '65 and JOHN ROGAN 
'65 assisted Tom in making the evening a success. 
Fall events included a golf outing on Sept. 24 at Park Hill Country Club, co­ordinated by ROBERT ZEIS '54 and a dinner party on the evening of Nov. 20 during the ND-LSU game. 
The Denver area ND Alumni Directory is nearing completion and will be mailed to all active alumni in the area sometime in November. 
For all new alumni in the Denver area, we encourage your membership in our club and suggest that you call the secretary at 534-0809. 
Richard V. Damm '64 
DETROIT 
Our Annual Fall Kickoff Party was held at the Botsford Inn on Sept. 7. MOOSE KRAUSE, our keynote speaker, brought those in attendance the latest pre-season report on this year's Fighting Irish. Roger Stanton, editor of the Football News, and VINCE DOYLE '48, WWJ Radio Sports­caster, served as anchormen adding color and insight on our team. 
DAN O'LOUGHLIN '62, chaired this very enjoyable party. 
Gary W. Dillon '65 FORT LAUDERDALE 
What a fantastic weekend! AH of the 350 
ND fans who came to the Mass, party, 
busses and Miami-ND game will not soon 
forget the fun and good food at Emerald 
Hills or the well-fought victory in the 
Orange Bowl. 
Our thanks go to Fr. David Russel, pastor of St Maurice, for the special Mass and his eye-opening sermon. We look fotward to the next time ND visits Miami so that the good times may roll a^iin. 
With the fabulous Miami game and party behind ns, we look ahead to the LSU-Notre Dame TV game and party on Nov. 20. This promises to be an exciting evening with good food, good drinks, prizes and hopefully a big victory for the Irish. All our alumni in the South Florida area are invited. Send your reservations now to: Notre Dame Club of Ft Lauderdale—100 
E. Las Olas Blvd., Ft Lauderdale, Fla. 33301. 
If by any chance you ought to be on the Ft Lauderdale Club mailing list and are not or an address change is needed, send the correct info c/o Dick Stritter, secretary, at the above address. 
Fr. MARTY DEVEREAUX '56, wiU serve two roles for the club this yean first as chaplain and second, along with MARTIN SULLIVAN '64, as a director. 
PAUL GORE '65, treasurer of the club has re-entered the academic world by aiming for his master's in tax-law at the U. of Miami as well as teaching an evening course at a local college in real estate law. 
EDWARD ZIEGLAR '71, who received his Ph.D. in economics this past June from ND, is now teaching at Florida Atlantic U. 
We all cheered JIM EVERTs '48 daughter Chris, as she won the hearts of millions by her spectacular victories in the Forest HiUs Tennis Championships. Con­gratulations, Jim and Chris—^fceep up the great work. 
Our dynamic young president JOHN KEENA '62, has been very busy lately making speeches and organizing conventions in his capacity as a national director for the Jaycees. His efforts in Florida residted in a hard-fought victory for this area's candidate for president of Florida Jaycees. 
This year promises to be one of the busiest for the Ft Lauderdale Club as many activities are fanned for our many members not only to have a good time but to keep us more in touch with the activities of the University. 
Richard T. Stritter '64 
GREEN BAY-FOX VALLEY 
On Aug. 21, a beer and.brats event was held for students and incoming freshmen at 
WASHINGTON, D.C.—Frank N. Hoffmann '33, left, and Peter J. Cannon '56, right, chat with Congressman Joseph M. McDade 'S3 of Pennsylvania at a luncheon of the ND Club of Washington. McDade was the speaker at the affair. The club's luncheon series, held each month at the Touchdown Club in the District of Columbia, has brought in many distinguished alumni and friends of the University as speakers. 
the Lake Winnebago home of RANDY 
MELZER '68. President TOM BROGAN 
'48 served on the welcoming committee. 
A family picnic was held Sept. 12 at Way-Morr Park. Co-chairmen George Kerwin and JAMES SIDALL '36 did a line job of organizing games and races. Other families attending were Dr. EUGENE SCHRANG '53, JEAN BEAUDOIN '60, Dr. MIKE CROSS '59, Dr. FRANCIS DEGA '56, Dudley Burger, WILLIAM KERWIN '40 and Tom Brogan, president. Brogan reported that our club membership has now reached 102. 
The next club event will be a Communion Dinner on Dec. 8. with NICK. CONLON and RANDY MELZER in charge of arrangements. 
Graham Werner '61 
HAWAII 

The new and returning students from Hawaii were honored at the annual Aloha party held Aug. 20 at the Olaa Steak House in Honolulu. 
A very special Aloha was extended to TOM HOPKINS '30 who recently retired as senior sports editor of the Honolulu Star Bulletin & Advertiser. The mayor of Honolulu, Frank Fasi, paid tribute to Tom for his many years of outstanding citizen­ship. President WALT CABRAL '55 presented Tom with a plaque commemo­rating his past service and leadership to the club. Mr. and Mrs. Hopkins are moving to the mainland and will certainly be missed by their many friends in Hawaii. 
Jim Rakers '65 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The last Friday football luncheon for the 
year will be on Nov. 12 at the Murat 
Shrine Club for the Tulane game. 

The club officers and directors recently lunched with MIKE JORDON '68, assistant ND alumni director. The current status of the ND student was discussed along with the present non-existence of the Indianapolis student club. Mike suggested that the club support some type of student activity for the Indianapolis ND students during the month break between semesters in January. Alumni having suggestions on this matter should contact any of the club officers or directors. We are sending a representative to the Alumni Senate at ND on Nov. 11 and 12. More on this later. 
Jack V. Moriarty '63 
MID-HUDSON VALLEY 

The most recent meeting of the Mid-Hudson Valley ND Club was held on Aug. 19, at the Knights of Columbus Hall in Wap­pingers Falls, N.Y. with CONNOR HAUGH '57, president, presiding. It was an excellent turnout of alumni—ioth subway and regular. 
The first order of business was election of new officers for the coming two years. The new slate of officers is: TED KENNEDY '63, president; CHARLES MANERI, JR. '60, vice-president; ANDY SALANSKY '57, secretary, and JOE GAGLIARDI Jr. '58, treasurer. 

The next order of business concerned the relatively recent merger of St Mary's with ND. By vote of the members, it was decided that all SL Mary's alumni in our area would automatically be granted membership in the Mid-Hudson ND Qub. We feel that this may possibly be a first for ND Alumni Clubs. Have any other clubs taken similar action? 
At the conclusion of the business meeting, 
refreshments were served and two films 
shown—the "NBC First Tuesday" film 
featuring ND and also 1970 ND Football 
Season Highlights. 
With the exception of the final game played in the rain, the films were enjoyed by aU. 
Ambrose F. (Andy) Salansky '57 
NASHVILLE 
On Aug. 28, the ND Club of Nashville held 
its annual picnic at Edwin Warner Park. 
We had an excellent turnout and those who 
participated in the touch football game had 
many aching muscles the next day. 
The following members were in atten­
dance: Dr. PHIL DAUGHERTY '40, 
JOHN KURTZ '55, DICK MARTIN '54, 
FRANK RHODES '59, JUDE LENAHAN 
'66, PAT CARROLL '34, Dr. LARRY 
FREANT '63, Dr. AL KERNS '62, Jim 
O'Hara '72, JOE WHITE '71, PAT Mc-
REDMOND '66, Joe Holymer '73, AL 
ABBEY '51, PAUL HEER '57, BILL 
KORTAN '51, Rev. OLLIE WILLIAMS 
•61, Rev. ED MULLOY '61 and Rev. JOHN HENRICK '57. 
The Club presented an engraved plaque to DICK MARTIN in appreciation for his fine efforts as president during the past three years. During his term of office, the membership in the club has increased from 45 to 65 along with the members' active participation. The new officers look forward to exceeding this accomplishment. 
Paul Heer '57 

NEW ORLEANS 
The New Orleans alumni welcomed the 
members of the Class of '75 in fine style at 
the Holiday Inn on Aug. 26. The incoming 

freshmen and their parents were honored 
just prior to their departure for South Bend. 
Among the alumni in attendance were Judge 
WILLIAM REDMANN, ALBERT E. 
CARPENTER, JR., and WALTER BABST. 
Local alumni are looking forward to hosting ND fans from all over the country on the ND-LSU FootbaU Weekend. The weekend includes a pep rally cocktail party on Friday evening, Nov. 19, at the Royal Sonesta Hotel, ND headquarters. On Saturday, chartered buses will be available for the trip to and from Baton Rouge for the game. 
Leon J. Reymond Jr. '64 
NEW YORK CITY 
More than 300 New York metropolitan area alumni and friends assembled in the Sky Room atop the Statler-Hilton Hotel (the old Pennsylvania) for the annual kickoff meeting of the ND Club of New York on Sept. 16. They were welcomed by GERALD F. SAEGERT '40, club president, who introduced Digger Phelps, new Irish basketball coach. Digger delivered an in­spiring message about the type of basket­ball player he and his staff are now coaching at ND, getting ready for the 1971-72 season. Col. JACK STEVENS, assistant director of athletics, followed with an appraisal of prospects for the 1971 football season. Then the capacity audience thrilled to the complete film in color of the Irish Cotton Bowl victory over Texas. Gerry Saegert was chairman of the event, assisted by PAUL 
T. SMITH '60 and DEON SUTTON '31. 
Earlier in the same room a freshman sendoff drew more than 100 new students and their parents. Among the speakers were 
JACK McNAMARA '31; Kevin Quinn, 
president of the Metropolitan Club on the 
ND campus; and Jerome Koch, a junior at 
ND who told the incoming freshmen just 
what they could expect. Featured speaker 
from the campus was JIM GIBBONS '53. 
Saegert served as chairman of the successful 
event. 
Plans are being formulated for the 
Communion dinner, Wednesday, Dec. 8. 
Smith is chairman. Later in December, the 
Notre Dame hockey team will be competing 
in the Eastern Collegiate Athletic Con­
ference tournament at Madison Square 
Garden, Dec. 20-21. The Irish basketball 
team and Digger Phelps will meet North 
Carolina on Feb. 19 in the Garden. 
All graduates in the New York metro­
politan area have received a dues notice. 
Payment of SIO annual dues entitles 
members to reduced prices and preferential 
treatment for other club events in addition 
to providing support for the club scholar­
ship fund. New arrivals in the New York 
area arc invited to call the club office at 
420 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y. 10017 
(212-685-4254). They will be put on the 
club mailing list and membership roster. 
John B. Powers '43 
OHIO VALLEY 
A dinner meeting of the Ohio Valley ND 
Club was held Aug. 25, at Figaretti's 
Restaurant, Elm Grove, Wheeling, W. Va. 
The meeting was to welcome students 
entering ND this fall and to make plans to 
invite SMC graduates to become interested 
in the club. 
After the dinner Secretary-Treasurer 
BILL MITSCH '33 welcomed Tom Burke 
'75 and his father Walter Burke into the 
club. Tom Burke thanked the club and 
asked any alumnus going to the campus 
this fall to look him up. 
Incorporating SMC alumnae and students into the club was discussed. Some local SMC graduates are already members of Ohio Valley ND Club because they are married to ND alumni. These will help the club contact other local SMC graduates. 
Future plans suggested for the club include a TV party for one of the televised ND games, a bus to the ND-Pitt game and a Communion breakfast. Ideas to reinstill enthusiasm in the club's activities were offered, and it is our hope that more activity can be reported in the future. 
Present at the meeting were: Mr. and Mrs. FRANK SIMONIC '63; Mr. and Mrs. RAY KEYS '49; Mr. and Mrs. Bill Mitsch '33; Tom Burke '75, Walter Burke; Mr. BILL DUSCH '34; BILL HOGAN '51; and Mrs. BOB MITSCH SMC '71. 
Bill Mitsch '33 
ORANGE COUNTY 
This summer the club was reorganized and currently has a membership of 70 alumni. Elections were held and the following officers will be serving;: NEWELL STICKLER '64, president; ROBERT LIES '63, vice president; TOM KEOGH '58, secretary, JOHN McSHANE '55, treasurer; board members, JOHN DECOURSEY '53, ROBERT SCHADE '56, JOHN BALLAS '52, TOM GETZINGER '53, TIM HAID­INGER '63. H. F. (Dutch) HOFSTETTER '43 and PHIL BERTONI '63. A family picnic and TV party on Oct. 23 was at­tended by 120 alumni and families. 
Various activities are planned for the '71-'72 club period. Any alumni in the Orange County area not receiving the club's mailings can contact Tom Keogh, 714­838-2503 and be placed on the mailing L'st. 
Thomas Keogh '58 
PEORIA 
The ND Club of Peoria met Sept. I to honor the new and current students at our bacfc-to-school-m'ght. After a terrific meal, we had the pleasure of meeting the students entering ND and SMC this fall. 
JOHN E. CASSIDY Sr. LL.B. '17 pre­sented the Lt. James A. Cassidy Award to GERALD McSHANE '71, who was the Peoria area ND undergraduate having the highest academic average for the previous school year. Gerald is now a first-yearmedical student at the U. of Illinois College of Medicine in Chicago. We are proud of Gerry and thank him for his remarks directed to the new students to "make the best possible use of their years at ND. Pick the best teachers and the top courses. Enjoy them and get the most out of them." 
Our guest speaker was MIKE JORDAN '68, assistant director of alumni affairs at the University. He urged the new freshmen not to be let down by the first few days in their new surroundings; that things change quickly and that if a person gives of him­self to others the adjustment will be easier. Mike stressed the point that ND is great because of the people that it brings together. Notre Dame is people who have been drawn together through friendship, interest and personality. We thank Mike for joining us in giving our students a great send-off. 
Our back-to-school night was the first of a full slate of activities for the coming year, and we are pleased with the great participation of the ND and SMC graduates. 
Mary Lou Hartley SMC '69 
PITTSBURGH 
The Pittsburgh Club had a freshman orientation meeting for new students and a golf outing for members and guests on Aug. 12 at the Press Club in Pittsburgh. It was a joint meeting with the local St. Mary's College alumnae group in recognition of the coming merger between the two schools. About 50 freshmen and their parents at­tended. Several students gave their com­ments and advice on university life. From their remarks, it appears that intellectual and social life at ND has continued to grow, but that the food is still lousy! BILL GOMPERS '48 handled the affair on the ND side, with NEAL SEAMAN '59 and JOHN RYAN '65 also on hand. The St. Mary's side was represented by Cathy Connor (wife of MIKE CONNOR '63 and '66, of our executive board) and Bobbye Flecker (wife of Dr. CARL FLECKER '64). 
The club's annual golf outing was held on Sept. 8 at the Latrobe Elks Club in the Allegheny Mountains. We had 35 golfers on hand to assault the course on the clear and sunny day. Winning scores were turned in by DICK KLUCK '49 and his partner. PINKY MARTIN '27 won the honest scoring award for having the highest score. The day was topped off with refreshments and a steak dinner. Prizes were presented. The golf winners received a set of golf balls for future accomplishments. Other prizes were ND golf hats. Bill Gompers' special first-aid kits, and a case of Fritz Wilson's favorite beer. JOE GASPERELLA '50 was in charge of the affair and Mike Connor was the accountant of both cash and golf scores. Joe had some of his Carnegie-Mellon football staff with him and related how he had hopes of challeng­ing our alma mater again one of these days. (Hell need at least another Howard 
Harpster to do that) 
Bill Gompers and JOHN MASTRAN­
GELO '47 were looking to the reunion of 
the 1946-47 national champions. Neal 
Seaman and ED FAYE '49 also were 
present. 
At the end of the evening. Pirate fans 
were listening to the radio reports of the 
latest game in the pennant race, and the 
pool players, including TOM MITTLE­
HAUSER '65, were matching their wits 
and skill at the table. 
The next club function was the rally on 
Nov. 5, the night before the ND-Pitt game, 
at the Webster Hall Hotel. ND alumni and 
subway alumni coining to Pittsburgh for the 
game were cordially invited to join us. 
John Ryan '65 
RHODE ISLAND & 
S.E. MASSACHUSETTS 
The annual freshman send-off dinner was 
held on August 25 at the Ramada Inn, 
Seekonk, Mass. This year we were honoring 
18 young men, candidates for the class of 
'75 and one young lady entering St. Mary's. 
The highlight of the evening was a film on 
student life at ND taken from the National 
Broadcasting Company Television Series, 
"The First Tuesday." This was followed 
by an extremely interesting discussion on 
"Current College Life" led by seniors Bob 
Hall, Bob Gill and Linda McMahon, a 
sophomore at St. Mary's. 
Jim Donaldson, sports editor of the 
Observer, gave us a rundown on ND Foot­
ball for the coming year. Senior Jim Ih'llon 
was also in attendance with his parents 
and Jim commented on student life at ND. 
All and all it was a very interesting evening 
talking to students about the "changes" 
at ND-—and a word of encouragement for 
the incoming freshmen. 
Thomas McHale '59 
ST. LOUIS 
With the end of summer, two events were held by the St. Louis Club. The first was the annual picnic at Babler State Park headed by DONALD HEMMER '66. Then on Sept. 1 our party for incoming freshmen was held. Both MIKE MCCARTHY '40 and JOHN POELKER '64 did a great job. Some 13 of the 20 ND freshmen from the St. Louis area were in attendance—along with several seniors who held an open-question session. The successful event included a back-yard barbeque at Mike's house. About 75 people attended. 
Fall activities included a trip to ND for the North Carolina game. ROBERT McGLYNN '50, '51L was chairman of the trip. 
Phil Tomber '64 
ST. JOE VALLEY 
The annual freshman send-off luncheon was held at Eddie's Restaurant on Sept. 2. Twenty-eight incoming freshmen heard 
Dr. Emil T. Hofman, Dean of the Fresh­man Year of Studies Program, discuss the varied services and activities available through his office. 
The 1971 dues notice has been mailed to all area alumni. President DAN O'BRIEN '58 is seeking 100 per cent participation. Our club should lead the nation. The $5 dues can be mailed to P.O. Box 111, South Bend. We need the support of everyone who really cares. 
Chairman DENNY TROESTER '57 has 
TERRE HAUTE — Five students going to the ND campus were honored at the back-to­school dinner of the Terre Haute Club. Shown here are Freshman William Grimes, Junior Don Ferris of Robinson, 111., and Freshman Steve Grohovsky. Also attending, but not pictured, were Senior Fred Chrislman Jr. and Freshman Steve Kendrick. 
announced the 5Ist Annual Football 

Banquet will be Dec. 2 in the A&CC. 
"The Twelfth Night party is scheduled 
for January. It is a joint activity with the 
St. Mary's Club and represents closer 
cooperation between the clubs. 
Brian C. Regan '61 
SAN DIEGO 

The San Diego Club started the new school 
year by hosting ND students and their dads 
at the Flare Path restaurant TOM 

HENNESSY '67 directed this annual event 
which provided the old grads a chance to 
"rap" with the new breed of Irish. In­

cidentally, we do have an excellent group 
of returning students. 

Club members were guests of JOHN McCABE '64 for a superb dinner-dance on North Island. The predinner social hour provided opportunities to rediscover old friends and meet new ones. Had an opportunity to swap politics with MIKE SCHAEFER '60, a candidate for city mayor, and torts with CLEM O'NEILL '56. 
Our Wives' Club held its monthly social gathering at Consuelo's restaurant, con­tinuing a policy of eating their way across San Diego County. Co-hostesses were Mrs. Rosemary (MARVIN) RICKLING '52 and Mrs. Norma (DOUG) GIMBER '60. 
Minor notes—SAM MIRABITO '64 has 
become a land baron in San Carlos, BILL 
WALSH '62 has joined the faculty of 

Grossmont College, Southern California 
did not fall into the sea and club members 
did not provide newsy items for this issue. 
BiU Walsh '62 
SAN FRANCISCO BAY 

The San Francisco Bay Area ND Club enters another fiscal year with high hopes for a successful program of events. Presi­dent JIM O'DONOGHUE '58, in coopera­tion with his board of directors, has prepared an interesting assortment of social and educational activities which, by this writing, should have been made the subject of a genera] mailing to all members. 
Included in the fall calendar will be the annual TV football game which will feature ND vs. LSU on Nov. 20. 
During the past several years, the board of directors has been gathering information on the active members of the .dub and 
that information will be used now to stream­
line the mailing list and to prepare a 

Directory to be made available to all dues-
paying members. You will receive more 
information about the Directory in the 
near future. 
Board member J. PETER CLARK '64 

has been transferred to Florida and we wish 
Pete the best of luck in his D»W position. 
The vacancy created by the forced resig­
nation of Pete has been filled by BRIAN 
NAGLE '61. 

We take this opportunity to welcome the 
following recent graduates who have taken 
up residence in the Bay Area: BILL 
LAJOIE '70; DAVE KRASHNA '71; JIM 
PAQUETTE '69; TONY EARLY '71; 

TERRY LEE '71; ALLEN GABRIELE '71. 
Effective the first Friday of October, the 
club's monthly luncheons were renewed 

after a summer break. Club members should 
note the fact that the location has been 
changed from St. Francis Hotel to the 
Barbary Restaurant in San Francisco. 
The club extends its special welcome to 

our good friend JOE MULLIGAN '59, who 
is now a Bay Area resident. 
Gerald C. Smith '61 
SPOKANE 
The Club mourns the death of a long-time 
member, FRANK H. HERRON '35, who 
died Aug. 16. Club members attended the 
rosary on the evening before interment. 
Arrangements were made for our annual closed retreat on the weekend of Oct 22-24 at Immaculate Heart Retreat House. 
Joseph M. Walsh, '14 
TERRE HAUTE 
The ND Club of Terre Haute held its 

annual back to ND dinner party on Sept. 1. 
The affair was held at the new K of C 

Building. Cocktails were served prior to the 
dinner. Those returning to Notre Dame 
included Fred Christman Jr. a senior, and 
Bill Grimes, Steve Grohovsky and Steve 
Kendrick, freshmen, all from 'Terre Haute, 

and Don Ferris, a junior from Robinson, 111. 
DENNEY PENNY '61, new president for the Terre Haute Club, was chairman of the dinner. Helping was BERNIE BURDICK, dub secretary. The evening was a big success. Members, wives, guests and families had a fine time. On SepL 8, MKE 
JORDON '68 was in Terre Haute and held 
a meeting with the members of the club. 
Mike is assistant Alumni Director at ND. 
In addition to a new club president, the 

club has a new club chaplain in Fr. RALPH 
FISHER CSC '55. Fr. Fisher is stationed at 
the Gibault Home for Boys south of 
Terre Haute. 
James P. Boyer '49 
TRIPLE CITIES 
The annual freshman send-off party was 
held Aug. 27. For the first time in the 
history of the club the gals from St. Mary's 
were included. Perhaps for this reason the 
turnout for the event was the best it has 
been in some years. 
Special thanks go to TOM BENEDICT 

'49, for making the lion's share of the 
arrangements. For all you alumni in our 
area, the officers have a pool going on how 
many of you will pay your dues. Let's 
surprise BILL BURTIS '59, and make BOB 
CANNON'S '50 optimism come true. 
John F. Stanley '64 
TWIN CITIES 
The Twin Cities ND Alumni Association 
Inc., of St. Paul and Minneapoh's held ils 
annual election on Sept. 28 at the Joseph 
Schmidt Brewery. The following officers 
were elected: 
JIM BREHL '56, president; JOHN 

MADDEN '58, vice president; JOE RUSCH 
'57, secretary, and JACK THOMAS '59, 
treasurer. 
Named directors were: EMMETT 

BARRON '27, LOU BRENNER '59, JOHN 
CANDELL '63, VINCE FILERS '56, JIM 
GIBBONS '58, JOHN HEALEY '50, BILL 
HERBER '48, ROBERT HOODECHECK 
'53, JOHN NEIS '64, JOHN PETRICK '24 
and JOE SUMMERS '62. 
The name of the organization was changed 

to the Notre Dame Club of Minnesota to 
encompass the whole state in a single group. 
Activities and social events were planned. 

The Auxiliary potluck supper was scheduled 
for Nov. 12 at St. Frances Cabrini Hall. 
The stag night featuring the TV game of 
the week, LSU vs. ND was set for Nov. 20 
at Hamm's Hospitality Room. 
Jack Thomas reviewed ND activities to 

interest local high school students in be­
coming ND students. JIM COONEY '59, 
executive director of the Alumni Associa­
tion, presented an enlightening and enter­
taining program on the past, present and 
future of ND and St Mary's combining to 
form one coeducational university. 
Plans for an evening of fun at the Old 

Log Theater an a Scotch doubles bowling 
party were presented. Dates for these events 
are early 1972. Other events are planned, 
so pay dues and stay informed. A member­
ship fee of S4 is required before any 
additional mailing will be sent out Atiyone 
interested in ND-Minnesota hockey tickets, 
please contact the secretary at 1587 McLean 
Ave., St Paul, Minn. 55106. 
The meeting adjourned after viewing 

highlights of the victorious ND football 
season of '70-71. 
For additional information on local events 

send dues to: 
Joe Rusch '57 
WALL STREET 
The Wall Street Club held a meeting on Nov. 23 in the New York Stock Exchange Lunch Room, seventh floor of the Stock Exchange Building, with Donald T. Regan, chairman of the board and chief executive of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, as the speaker. ITie talk was followed by a question-and-answer period. Refreshments were served. 
Club officers urged all alumni involved in the investment business to attend and were particularly interested in the presence of recent graduates. A large turnout was ex­pected for the meeting because of Regan's world leadership in financial affairs, his ability as a speaker and his interest in the University. 
Deon Sutton '31 
MARRIAGES 
Miss June Hester and JOHN \V. McFADDEN JR. '58, July 24. Miss Eolina De Rossi and JAMES DENIS O'HARE '64, Oct. 2. 
Miss Margaret Jane Roberts SMC '69 and DAVID G. RICHARDS '67, '71L, July 31. 
Miss ROSEMARIE R. ULIS M.A. '67 and THOMAS P. GREEN '65, M.S. '67, Aug. 7. 
Miss Nancy Jean Kasmarik and FRANK SMITH '68L, May 30. Miss Mary Alice Herod SMC '69 and RICHARD JOHN LAJOIE JR. '69, Aug. 21. Miss Cynthia Niero and DAVID PRUSIECKI '69, July 17. Miss Joyce A. Niebrugge and MARTIN A. KUHARICH '71, June 12. 
ADOPTIONS 
Maj. and Mrs. GEORGE D. NAVADEL '58, a son, Stephen, Aug. 13. Mr. and Mrs. ANTHONY LUBER '67L, a daughter, Elizabeth Anne. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES V. FALKEN­BERG JR. '52, a daughter, Elizabeth Jeanne, July 30. 
Maj. and Mrs. GEORGE D. NAVADEL '58, a son, David, Sept. 3. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT HASSENGER '59, a son, Robert Kennedy, June 27. Mr. and Mrs. DONALD A. MODICA '64, a son, Donald Joseph, Aug. 31. Mr. and Mrs. PETER W. MURRAY '64, a son, Trevor Thomas, Sept. 22. Mr. and Mrs. STEVE VanHYDE '65, a daughter, Stephanie, in May. Mr. and Mrs. PETER VINSON '65, a " daughter, Kn'sten Monica, in June. Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL J. HANNIGAN JR. '66, a daughter, Carrie Marie, July 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD T. McAUUFFE '67, a son, Edward Timothy, June 16. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT HERR '68L, a son, Matthew William, Aug. 3. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN SCRIPP '68L, a daughter, Susanna. Mr. and Mrs. STEVE ANELLA '71MBA, a son, John Anthony, Aug. 19. Mr. and Mrs. ANTHONY STRAT '71MBA, a daughter, Laura Jane, Aug. 21. 
SYMPATHY 
ADAM WALSH '25 on the death of his 
brother CHARLES F. (Chile) WALSH 
78, Sept. 4. 
AUGUST M. GRAMS '28 on the death 
of his brother, JOHN A. GRAMS '33, 
March 31. 
LOUIS C. CHAPLEAU '30 and 
RICHARD J. CHAPLEAU '34 on the 
death of their mother, Mrs. Mary C. 
Chapleau, Sept. 6. 
DR. PAUL ROARK '37 on the death of 
his wife, March 27; and DR. MICHAEL 
ROARK '65, Mame Roark SMC '68 and 
Jane Roark SMC '69 on the death of their 
mother. 
J. GORDON MURPHY '37 on the death of his brother, Robert Murphy. 
FRANKLIN R ECK '44 on the death 
of his mother, Mrs. John H. Sheehan, 
Aug. 5. 
PATRICK H. MARTIN '48 on the death 
of his son, Josepii W. Martin, Aug. 29. 
LEONARD A. DENTE '49 on the death 
of his mother, Mrs. Mary Dente, Aug. 8. 
JOHN J. ELLIOTT '50 on the death of 
his father, William Francis Elliott, Dec. 5, 
1970. 
WILLIAM F. ROEMER JR. '50L; JOSEPH E. '49; THOMAS J. '52, JAMES 
A. '51, LL.B. '55 and CHARLES W. '53, 
LL.B. '58 on the death of their father, WILLIAM F. ROEMER Ph.D. '27, Sept. 25. 
JAMES CASE "51 on the death of his father, CHARLES R CASE '25, May 26. JOSEPH P. SCHAEFER '56 on the death of his father. Dr. Leo J. Schaefer. JOHN FAZIO '59 on the death of his mother, Mrs. R. J. Fazio. Sept. 16. 
MICHAEL '63, TIMOTHY '65 and TERRENCE O'SHAUGHNESSY '70 on the death of their father JOHN J. O'SHAUGHNESSY '33, Sept. 11. 
DEATHS 
LADISLAUS A. WIECZOREK '00, Sept. 
6. He is survived by his widow, Frances, 1005 N. Wilber St., South Bend, Ind. 46628; two sons, a daughter; 11 grand­children and 10 great-grandchildren. 
WALES R FINNEGAN '10, Aug. 5. He is survived by his widow, Katherine, 10616 Mantz Rd., Silver Spring, Md. 20903, a sister, two nieces and a nephew, Rt. Rev. John Waterhouse. 
CLARENCE J. CENTLIVRE '13. He is survived by his family at 2616 Terrance Rd., Fort Wayne, Ind. 46805. 
MSGR. FRANCIS OCONNELL '14, Sept. 20, at St. Mark's Parish, 235 R Fourth St., Emporium, Pa. 15834. 
EUGENE F. McENlRY '17. He is sur­vived by his family at Creston, Iowa. 
EDWIN T. BREEN '18, in September. He is survived by his widow, Bemiece and two brothers. 
GEORGE E. TRAFTON '22, Sept. 10, in Los Angeles, Calif. He is survived by his widow, Jacqueline; a son, George R Jr., and a daughter. Bliss. 
EGBERT L. CURTIN '23. He is survived by his family in North Adams, Mass. 
CHARLES R CASE '25, May 26. He is survived by his widow, Beatrice, 1575 Perry St., Denver, Colo. 80204; two sons, JAMES '51 and Edward; a daughter, Margaret; seven grandchildren and a sister. 
SISTER M. ROBERTA BRESNAN 
HHM '27. Aug. 9 at Lourdes Education 
Center, Oeveland, Ohio. 
WILLIAM F. ROEMER Ph J>. '27, Sept 
25. He is survived by his widow, Cannd, 422 E. Angela Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 46617; five sons, WILLIAM F. JR. '50L; JOSEPH E. "49; THOMAS J. '52; JAMES 
A. '51, LL.B. '55 and CHARLES '53, LL.B. '58; a daughter, Mn. Thomas Kusbach; 27 grandchildren and a great-grandchild. 
CHARLES F. (Chile) WALSH "28, Sept 
4 in Hollywood, Calif. He is survived by a 
brother, ADAM '25, 8 Haipswell Place, 
Brunswick, Maine 04111. 
DAVID A FIELDS SR. '29, Sept 17. 
He is survived by his widow, Bemadette, 
103 Oak Dr., Catonsville, Md. 21228, two 
daughters and four sons. 
DR. PHILIP C. HEMMING "29, Sept 1. 
He is survived by his widow, Janet 415 
Cabrillo St., Costa Mesa, Calif. 92627; 
three sons; a daughter, and a grandson. 
GEORGE R. SCHMIDT '29. He is sur­
vived by his widow, Jessie, 620 Summit St., 
Elgin, 111. 60120. 
JOSEPH STANLEY SULLIVAN '29L, 
Aug. 24. He is survived by his widow, Kay, 
9250 S. Damen Ave., Chicago, 111. 60620 
and four children. 
CLIFTON J. TROMBLEY '29, July 25 in Detroit. 
FRANK J. (Spike) McADAMS '31, Sept 19. He is survived by his widow, Irene, 415 S. Lombard, Oak Park, III. 60302; four sons and three daughters. 
REV. GEORGE J. BAXTER CSC '32, of Via Coeli Monastery, N.M. He is survived by four brothers, John, Edward, James and William, and by two sisters, Mrs. Ann Quinn and Miss Mildred Baxter. 
JOHN A. GRAMS '33, March 31. He is survived by his brother, AUGUST M. GRAMS "28, LaVOla Riviera, 1930 Gulf Shore Blvd., Naples, Fla. 33940. 
JOHN J. O'SHAUGHNESSY '33, Sept 
II. He is survived by his widow, Efleen; four sons, MICHAEL '63, TIMOTHY '65, TERRENCE "70 and Dennis: a daughter, Mary; five grandchildren and two sisters. 
MELVIN D. HARBAUGH '34, Aug. 26. He is survived by his widow, Margaret 19652 Sunset Lane, South Bend, Ind.; his mother, Mrs. Minm'e Harbaugh; a daughter, Mrs. John Lester; three grandchildren, and a brother. Noble F. 
CHARLES J. HORAN '34, March 26. He is survived by his widow, Margaret 4801 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Apt 805, Washington, D.C. 20008. 
FRANCIS H. HERON JR. M_A. '35, Aug. 15. He is survived by his widow and two sons. 
DR. WILLIAM P. CALLAHAN JR. '39, in August He is survived by his widow, Joan, 41 Mission Rd., Wichita, Kan. 67206. 
MOST REV. RUSSELL J. McVINNEY '39, bishop of Providence, R.I., Aug. 10. He is survived by a sister, Mary L. McVinney. 
SR. FRANCIS de SALES DUFFY, IHM, 
M.A. '40, St Mary Convent Monroe, Mich. 48161. 
MARC A. GRUENENFELDER '40, Sept 27. He is survived by his widow, Lorraine, 11717 Claychester Dr., Kirkwood, 
III. 63122; three daughters; a son; his mother and his grandchildren. REV. ELIAS DENISSOFF, professor of 
philosophy '48-'57, Sept 7 in Chicago. RALPH J. HOLMES '50, MJi. '52, Aug. 
27. He is survived by his widow, Rosemarie, Route 1, Bark River, Mich. 49807 and four children. 
REV. BONIFACE J. KRASZEWSKI OFM, M.A. "54, Christ the King Seminaiy, P.O. Box 246, West Chicago, 111. 60185. 
THOMAS D. FINNEGAN '55. He is survived by his family at 134 Sheafe Rd., Wappingers Falk, N.Y. 12590. 
FAVORS MERGER 

I am in favor of the merger of the Notre Dame and St Mary's College Alumni/Alumnae Associations. How can they not be merged, now that the two schools are almost completely united? The mere physical presence of SMC has always been a factor in ND student life. Most of ND's recent graduates will testify to the fact that our friends from across the road be­came so much an ordinary part of our lives, that we no longer felt haunted by the spectre of a Saint Mary's Girl, a Sly Siren of the St. Joe. 
I cannot accept the argument of Mr. and Mrs. Sanford that appeared in the October ALUMNUS. If two groups of college-educated people, with fairly similar backgrounds, can­not join together without, "some alienation and rejection and probably further polarization of the different attitudes," then I guess that we are all in trouble. 
Furthermore, perhaps the women­folk could add a little spice to alumni meetings which presently tend to the­ologize blandness. The '71 Cotton Bowl movie is cool, but I think we all know the tale by now. At a recent meeting, a respectable alumnus, (not one of us young anarchists) presented a series of well-researched questions regarding the athletic department and its finances, to the assistant athletic director, John Stephens. However, the alumnus was ruled out of order, by the chairman of the meeting, on the grounds that it was supposed to be a "fun" evening. "Fun," I suppose, de­fined as that which does not require mental exertion, i.e., "fun" people will just sit and listen to the speech, and sit and watch the movie. 
Here's a couple of random thoughts. How about a ban on all articles that deal with symbols instead of realities. The recent Mitchell-Swift controversy was a laugh. Why do Americans of all points of view have this mania for defending and attacking words and symbols? To each of the gentlemen, I award a fine piece of country music by John Prine entitled "Your Flag Decal Won't Get You Into Heaven Anymore." Finally, Terri Buck seems to draw a lot of commentary and publicity, but I think that someone should mention, above all else, that she is a fine and thoughtful human being. — KEVIN RODNEY '70, 960 Barrie Ave., Wantagh, N.Y. 11793. 
YVES SIMON 

I would like to add a brief recollection of my own to Professor Corbett's moving "Yves Simon at Notre Dame" (October, 1971), As a faculty mem­ber's son I met Professor Yves Simon a number of times over the years, but it was not until 1955-1956 that I had an opportunity to know him person­nally and, indeed, to become his stu­dent. That year, while beginning re­search on my doctoral dissertation at Columbia University, I commuted several times a week between South Bend and Chicago to take several courses at the University of Chicago. Early in the year I spotted Professor Simon on the old South Shore and somewhat hesitantly greeted him and took a seat beside him. I immediately learned that he was teaching at the University of Chicago but our con­versation turned quickly to my own work. When Professor Simon dis­covered that I was working on a topic that was central to his La grande crise de la Republique Francaise, he converted our seats on the South Shore into a mobile mini-classroom. For the remainder of the academic year, as we rode home together at least once a week, we discussed France of the '20s and '30s, my graduate work, and, most important, the quali­ties of the genuine scholar. It was the latter that left its mark on me, for Professor Simon, as Professor Corbett points out, was much more than a narrow professional scholar. Professor Simon suggested time and again that my work should be something more than a narrow and rigid kind of in­tellectual exercise. 
Several years later, shortly before leaving for a year's research in France, 
I called upon Professor Simon — I 
think at the suggestion of the Cor­
betts. By this time. Professor Simon 
had learned of his illness, but he wel­
comed me warmly into his book-
strewn study. We discussed my work 
and once again he demonstrated his 
kindness by searching through his 
books and papers and giving me a 
large stack of French journals as well 
as several pieces of personal corre­
spondence for use in my research. 
This was the last time I saw Professor 
Simon. 
Now, as I work laboriously over the pageproofs of a book on Yves Simon's beloved country, these recollections seem especially meaningful. In my "Acknowledgments," the name of Professor Simon appears in what 1 hope is something more than the usual perfunctory manner. — RUFUS WIL­LIAM RAUCH, JR. '50, Department of History, Temple University, Philadel­phia, Pa. 19122. 
VARSITY 6, GRADS 5 
On behalf of the Notre Dame Alumni Lacrosse Association, I'd like to take this opportunity to express our sin­cere appreciation for the article you published on the Second Annual Old-Timers Lacrosse Game in the October issue of the ALUMNUS. Your interest and efforts are appreciated. The Varsity won the game 6-5. — JACK TATE '64, '66MA, 90 Broad Street, New York, N.Y. 10004. 
PRAISE FOR HESBURGH 
I have been regularly receiving ALUM­NUS magazine and enjoy it very much since I graduated in 1960. 
It seems that many alumni who "sound off" in the pages of the maga­zine are the same guys who were always griping about the food, laun­dry, teachers, etc., when they were on campus way back when. They have grown little since teen-age days, it seems. 
I, for one, approve of the radical changes in campus life. I further feel that ND is blessed with the greatest president of any school. Indeed, Sorin and Hesburgh divide Notre Dame between them: there is no third! I wish that the sour-grape alumni who want to turn back the clock and the restive students whc want to throw away the clock would unite and support their visible head. Does it take a "wake" until the ND family really will ap­preciate Father Hesburgh? — TERRY LAUGHLIN '60, 1117 South Wilke Rd., Ariington Heights, 111. 60005. 
MMiziKMenir 
by James Cooney, Director 
ND Alumni Association 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College unification was not the only union dis­cussed at the October Alumni Board meeting. One of the major actions taken by the Board was the agreement to merge ALUMNUS and Insight maga­zines. The approval, which was wel­comed by University officials, paves the way for creation of a new publi­cation, NOTRE DAME MAGAZINE, after the first of the year which will serve Alumni better than ever. The new publication will be an 84-page bi­monthly, distributed to all 50,000 alumni and some 25,000 friends of the University. 
Alumni should welcome the new publication since it will be a larger magazine than ALtn^NUS, with im­proved design, graphics and photog­raphy. All current content of ALUM­

GdriBl. tie Sdiolv 
by Richard W. Conklin, 
Director, Information Services 
A great deal happens on college cam­puses apart from academic activity, chiefly because a substantial portion of the personal development of post-adolescent but preadult men and women takes place outside of books. 
So preoccupied have we been of late with the personal development aspects of higher education, however, that we have tended to obscure the fact that scholarship still lies at the root of the educational enterprise. I was reminded of this recently when I represented the University at a luncheon in Washington, D.C., at which Dr. Astrik L. Gabriel, director of Notre Dame's Mediaeval Institute, was inducted into the Bavarian Academy of Sciences. 
Nineteen people — an interesting melange of government agency and private foundation executives, scholars and patrons — had gathered to pay their respects to an internationally known specialist in Mediaeval edu­cation who was about to become the eighth American professor to join the 
NUS will be retained, and several new 
alumni features added. Severe space 
limitations in the current magazine 
have had us up against the wall in 
terms of class column expansion, in-
depth features, etc. And, the new 
magazine's 84 pages will give us ex­
tremely welcome elbow room. 
Neither of the two current maga­
zines was overstaflfed. But creation of 
the consolidated magazine will focus 
the creative efforts of both staffs onto 
one publication with greater depth re­
porting of alumni and University 
scenes. Alumni profiles in particular 
will be expanded . . . Mike Jordan 
will highlight the Alumni Club scene, 
a readers' forum will be established 
welcoming literary debate on topical 
issues . . . and alumni-authored arti­
cles will be sought. 
Inevitably one must ask: Why the merger? Weren't ALUMNUS and In­sight alive and doing well? The answer is a resounding, yes! ALUMNUS served the growing alumni body emi­nently well for 47 years, and was in fact a premier publication in the field of alumni affairs. And Insight was created primarily as a communica­tions vehicle with the University's nonalumni family. 
But, in recent years campus evolu­tion (and, some revolution) caused 
Bavarian Academy and the only active 
U.S. professor to be a corresponding fellow of the Bavarian and French Academies. 
The Madison Hotel luncheon — served from what is reputably Wash­ington's best kitchen—^was flawless in food, wine and conversation. The West German embassy's cultural counselor greeted Prof. Gabriel with a continental flavor, addressing him in the languages of the five nations he could call home — French, Italian, Hungarian, German and English. (He could be forgiven for having missed Gabriel's sixth "home"—the Gibson Bar of the Washington Hilton, where the waitresses never serve him flat champagne.) 
Gabriel responded into Voice of America microphones with appropri­ate gratitude. He is a man of books, and he noted that the Nazis had burned his first library and the Com­munists his second. America had given him a chance to build a third, and with liberal financial backing from the National Science and Kress Foun­dations, he had brought to Notre Dame one of the finest collections of Mediaeval manuscripts and Christian art to exist outside of Europe. 
both :nagazines to engage in similar 
editorial activity. Insight, which had 
been created to report on campus 
progress, began like ALUMNUS, to ad­
dress campus change. And, so, the 
rationale for separate publications was 
severely diminished. 
Economic exigencies while not the 
paramount factor in the decision, 
nevertheless came into play. It's 
simply going to be cheaper for the 
University (which had budgeted both 
publications) to hit the post ofBce 
six times per year with one magazine, 
rather than eleven times a year with 
two. And, in this age of financial 
crisis for private institutions such a 
move is more often than not essential. 
It reflects a wise usage of alumni 
support income as well. 
The new publication will actually fulfill a lot of old ALUMNUS staff dreams (pipe dreams we thought on occasion) with improved budget, space, staff, graphics and design. We're kind of excited about it 
So, shortly after the first of the year, with the blessings of the Alumni Board, the Alumni Office staff (and I might add that of predecessor Jim Armstrong), and the University, the ALUMNUS shall retire after having fought the good fight, and a new star with an old name shall be bom. 
There was a temptation to view the 
whole scene as somewhat quaint and 
irrelevant. I mused silently over my 
Bordeaux about what Maximilian m , 
elector of Bavaria and founder of the 
Academy in 1759, would think about 
parietal hours, the issue galvanizing 
the campus back in South Bend. 
More tangible than this sense of apparent incongruity, however, was a distinct feeling of historical and cul­tural continuity reaching back to Gabriel's own Middle Ages and per­haps further. In the midst of Marshall McLuhan's audio-visual global village, here was honor being paid to a priest-scholar who cared passionately about preserving a culture far removed in time . . . and linear at that (It was a small irony that Gabriel was preserv­ing the best that was said and thought in Mediaeval times by using some of McLuhan's tools, microfilm and colored transparencies.) 
It came to me—^the Bordeaux might have helped some—that the luncheon was really a kind of ritual, an attempt to link up, for deeply human reasons, with the spirit embodied in the Me­diaeval monks who first copied the manuscripts preserved in Gabriel's library. 
'r^immmmmmm^^^swF^M 
Vit. Franeis P. Clark 


'-^Ur^''---^ 
Head, Microfilming & Photo, Lab. "emorial Library Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
J>



iw^ § 
e-t 
1. 

5^^S­
•*sC 

^?K5 
M' 
m 
JSI^ 
^*>--«. 
-^':;, 
1 "V .­
^M 

.•i•«*^i1h!.!:Dv • Hi' 
i< 
«fc 
' i-Ti ^'••fe:IS" 5-,/ J 
V 
m 

^ ttni$«^ 
^^m*:J 
•'» 
^Si&im. 
^ 
I^g 

;M^ 










