The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

ALUMNUS 
c/he Ssoq C/hapeL L(tttvenihf of CNabre U)ame 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Sample Page, Proposed Directory 
7—ilccounfonfs and 
Statisticians 
ROHBBACH, Robert J., '32, Tax Account­ant, Chicago Tribune, 435 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago 11, III. RES.: 5243 Suffield Terrace, Skokie, 111. 

2—ildverffsing Men 
BABBY. Thomas H., ex. '40, Advertising Sales, McGraw-Hill Publishing Co., 520 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago 11, 111. RES.: 241 Prairie Ave., Highv^ood, 111. 

3:—Architects 
MUNGEB. Harold H., "15, Architect (Part­ner), Britsch & Munger, 531 Nicholas Bldg., Toledo, O. RES.: 215 E. Second St., Per­rysburg, Ohio. 

4—Armed Forces, Members of 
HAWSES. William M., '33, Commander. USN, C. O. U. S. Naval Research Lab., 470 Atlantic Ave., Boston. Mass. RES.: 182 Orient Ave., Orient Hts., East Boston, Mass. 
5—^4ffifefes, Sport In­structors and Sports 

Officials 
McCAHTY, Patrick P., '38, Athletic Director. Central Catholic High School. 2550 Cherry, Toledo 8, O. RES.: 521 Toronto St. 

6—Authors, Editors and Reporters 
TOWNER, Robert W., ex '43, Sports Writer, South Bend Tribune, 223 West Colfax Ave., South Bend. Ind. RES.: 129 Willow Dr. 


7—Cfcemists 

SOMMEBS, Armiger H., '42, Research Chemist, Abbott Laboratories. Dept. 68-A, North Chicago, 111. RES.: SOB N. Elmwood Ave., Waukegan, 111. 

8—Clergymen 

ALLEGA. Rev. Francis R., '40, 315 N. E. Third St., Washington, Ind. 

9—Credit Men 

COBCORAN. Joseph R., '47, Collection Su­pervisor, Sibley, Lindsay & Curr Co.. 228 East Main St., Rochester 4. N. Y. RES.: 47 Shepard St. 

Send in Thot Card 
When the proposed alumni direc­tor)- (now in the making) appears, it will contain, in substance, the kind of information which is given on this page. The typographical arrange­ment of the information may, of course, be somewhat different. 
The directory will be divided into four sections: geographical; by classes; alphabetical; and occupa­tional. The occupational section, which should prove to be particular­ly valuable, will be di\'ided essen­tially according to the work classifi­cations given on these pages. 
If you haven't sent in your direc­tory card, which was enclosed with the April ALUMNUS, will you please send it ver>- soon? Thanks for your help. 


70—Denfisfs 
McCOBMCK, Robert E., ex '42, 1140 Lake St., Oak Park, 111. RES.: 110 S. Home Ave. 

77—Draftsmen and Designers 
mx , John F., '47, Project Engineer, Fort Wayne Tool, Die S Engineering Co., 1025 Goshen Rd., Fort Wayne 7, Ind. RES.: 3204 S. Hanna St. 

7 2—Engineers— (Elec,J 
ALVmO. Alphonse V.. '33, Project Engi­neer, Eclipse-Pioneer, Teterboro, N. J. RES.: 560 N. 7th, Newark 7, N. J. 

73—^Farmers and Farm Managers 
lONES, John, '29, Farm Manager, Jones Dairy Farm, Iba. Wis. RES.: 1111 Front St., Iba. Wis. (Sample name only). 

14—Funeral Direcfors 
SMITH. James. '40. Smith Funeral Home, 10 First St., Second. Ind. RES.: 20 Second St., South Bend. Ind. (Sample name only). 

7 5—Go vernmenf Employees 
McGEE. John B.. '30, Chief, Industrial Prop­erty Accounts Branch, U. S. Air Force, Bell Aircraft Corp., Niagara Falls 1, N. Y. RES.: 730 Starin Ave., Kenmore 17, N. Y. 

76^Lawyers and Judges 
ISVh James H., '37, Lovryer. Cashin, Dunn, Bdblitch & Levi, 446 Main St., Stevens Point, Wis. RES.: 213 Center St. 

17—Librarians 
BYBNE, Paul R., '13. Librarian, Notre Dame, Ind. RES.: Sorin Hall. 

78—Musicions and TeacAers of Music 
BEHB. John L., '43, Supervisor of Music, 404 Washington Ave., Oneida, N. Y. 
79—Owners, Execufives 

and Managers (Re~ ^ tail Business) 

McMANUS. Robert R., '40, Partner, Stand­ard Roofing & Supply Co., 362 W. 16th Place. Indianapolis 2, Ind. RES.: 2156 N. Meridian St. 

20—Personnel and Em­ployment Managers 
LEAVEY, William J.. '47, Personnel Asst., 
N.Y.C.R.R. Co.. 466 Lexington Ave.. N. Y. 17, N. Y. RES.: 3760 88th St., Jackson Heights, N. Y. 

27—Pharmacists 
McFABLANE. Clement E., '38, Owner, Mc-Farlane Drug. 334 S. Washington. Lansing 
25. Mich. RES.: 412 W. Ionia. 

# 22—PAys/cians and Surgeons 
MUBPHY, Dr. George E.. '36. Surgeon, St. Vincent's Hospital, New York, N, Y. RES.: 440 Marshall St., Paterson, N. J. 

23—Public Officials 
SMITH, John J., '30, Mayor, City of West­chester. Ind. RES.: 1111 Second St. (Sam­ple name only). 

24—Public Relations Workers 
lEMMER. Victor F., '26, Director of Tcac Bureau, Gogebic Industrial Bureau, Suite 
101. Rosemurgy Bldg.. Ironwood. Mich. RES.: 424 Douglas Blvd. 
Continued on Page 39 ' 



The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the Univexsity of Notre Dame* Notre Dame, Tn*Kai^y Entered is second cJass matter Octo­ber 1, 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of tike AmericaD Ahunns CoondL 
James E. Annstiong, '25, Editor; WlUimn B. Doolay. '26. Maaoging Editar 
Vol. 26 

REUNION PROGRAM 
FRIDAY, JUNE 4 Alumni Registration for Compus Residence Alumni Golf Tournament 
3:00 p.m. Baseball, Western Michigan vs. Notre Dome, Cartier Field 
7:30 p.m. University Band Concert, Main 
Quadrangle (Reunion programs of the 5-Year Re­union Classes hove been scheduled by the Classes for various times ond places OS noted elsev^here in this issue) 
SATURDAY, JUNE 5 
8:00 a.m. Mass for Deceased Alumni, Sacred Heart Church 
8:45 a.m. Breakfast Meeting University Foundation Governors and City Committeemen 
9:30
 a.m. Senior Class Lost Visit, Sacred Heart Church (o private Class ceremony) 

9:30
 o.m. College of Low Alumni Organ­ization Meeting, Auditorium Law Building 


10:00 a.m. Class Day Exercises and Aword of Prizes, University Drill Hall 
12:00 m. President's Luncheon for the 25­Year ond 50-Yeor Classes 
1:30p.m. Foculty "At Homes" in the faculty offices in the vanovs College buildings 
3:00 p.m. Baseball, Western Michigan vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field 
5:00p.m. Reception for Parents and GroJ­uotinq Class by Administration 
6:00p.m. Alumni Banquet, Eost Holt, Uni­versity Dining Halls 
8:00p.m. University Glee Club Concert, Woshington Hall 


SUNDAY, JUNE 6 
G:30 a.m. Academic Procession, Mai n Building in the University Drill Hall 
9:00 o.m. Solemn Pontfiicol Mass, Univer­sity Drill Hall Celebront, Most Rev. John F. Noll. Bishop of Fort Wayne Sermon, Most Rev. Richard Cush­inq, D.D., Archbishop of Boston Music, Moreou Seminary Choir The Flog, presented by the Class of 1948 on Woshinoton's Birth­day, will be blessed and raised immediately after the Mass. 
12:00 m. Monogram Luncheon, West Hall, University DIninq Halls *1:30 p.m. Conferring of Degrees, Univer­sity Drill Hall 
*3:30 p.m. Conferring of Degrees, Univer­sity Drill Hall Commencement Address, Mr. Paul G. Hoffman, Director of the ECA 
*Si2e of Class necessitated dividing exercises 

MAY-IUNE. 1948 II0.3 

Paul Hoffman, ERP Director, To Speak at Commenoement 
Paul G. Hoffman, newly-appointed Direc­tor of the European Recovery Program, will deliver the principal address at commence­ment exercises at the University of Notre Dame on Sunday, June 6, it was announced on May 5 by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c, president. 
Father Cavanaugh announced simultan­eously that the Most Reverend Richard J. Gushing, D.D., LL.D.. Archbishop of Boston, Mass., will deliver the Baccalaureate ad­dress on Gomraencement Sunday. The Most Reverend John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind., will celebrate the Baccalau­reate Mass. 
Mr. Hoffman and Archbishop Gushing will receive LL.D.'s at the Gommcncement. Roy 
J. Deferrari, secretary general at Catholic University of .America; William J. Corbett, president of G. W. Marks Shoe Co. and member of the Board of Lay Trustees; and Vincent J. Shaefer, General Electric research chemist widely known for his successful ex­periments with "artificial weather," will also be awarded LL.D.'s. 
Resigns as Studeboker President 

Mr. Hoffman, who resigned his post as President of the Studebaker Corporation in South Bend to accept his new duties, holds one of the most important positions in the nation as he is charged with the respon­sibility of supervising the distribution of aid from the United States to rebuild the war-stricken countries of Europe. 
Mr. Hoffman began his spectacular climb to become one of the nation's most promi­nent industrial leaders in 1911, when he became an automobile salesman for the Stu­debaker Corporation in Los Angeles. After fcur years in that capacity, he was named Sales Manager of the Los Angeles Branch of the Studebaker Corporation in 1915, and two years later had advanced to the posi­tion of Distributing Branch Manager. He purchased the Los Angeles retail branch in 1919. 
It took only fourteen years for Mr. Hoff­man to rise from automobile salesman to an administrative position in the Studebaker Corporation. In 1925 he was appointed Vice-President of the organization and ten 
years later was elevated to the presidency. 
Even before his appointment as Director of the European' Recovery Program, Mr. Hoffman for many years had been active in the nation's affairs. He has served as Chair­man of the Board of Trustees of the Com­mittee for Economic Development Chair­man of the Automotive Safety Foundation, Honorary Chairman of the United China Relief, a member of President Truman's Commission on Foreign Aid and a member of the Business Advisory Council of the United States Department of Commerce. 
Hald Many PositioBs 

Author of "The Seven Roads to Safety" in 1939, the prominent automobile manu­facturer also has served as Director and Vice-President of the Automobile Manufac­turers Association and is a member of the Visitors Committee of the Department of Government at Harvard University. He is a Director of the Federal Reserve Bank of • Chicago, the New York Life Insurance Company, the United Air Lines, the Ency­clopedia Britannica and Encyclopedia Brit­annica Films, and the Chicago Corporation. 
Archbishop Gushing, after receiving his early education at Boston College high school and Boston College, entered St. John's Seminary at Brighton, Mass., for his religious training leading to the priesthood. He was ordained into the Catholic priest­hood oh May 26, 1921. 
After his ordination, the present .Arch­bishop was active in parish work in the Boston area and at one time during his career gained considerable prominence as Director of the Society for Propagation of the Faith in the Archdiocese of Boston. He was consecrated Auxiliary Bishop of Boston and Titular Bishop of Mela in 1939, and was elevated to his post as Archbishop of Boston in 1944. 
Archbishop Gushing, former pastor of Sacred Heart Church in Newton Centre, Mass., is a prominent writer on the missions and on religious, social and moral problems. He is a Grand Knight of the Gross and a Knight of St Hubert of Lorraine. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

1U mean the virtual disappearance of many of 
the nation's private schools which are pro­
During the meeting, members of the Ad­visor>" Council inspected the laboratories in 
UNIVERSITY the Department of Metallurgy at Notre 
By Edward A. Fischer, '37 
SPRING FEVER didn't have much of a chance as a rash of dances, speakers' programs, and assorted activities broke out on the campus during the past month. Everyone was hxirrying to com­plete one more project before the end of the school year. 
A NEW MAG.'^ZINE, entitled Notre Dame, is being edited here. First copies of the 24-page quarterly will roll from the press in about a month. The magazine, free to alumni and friends of the university, will be filled with human interest stories and feature articles on the little-publicized phases of Universit>' life. 
THE LAYMEN'S RETREAT will be held from 8:30 pjn., Aug. 19. until the end oi the Communion breakfast Aug. 22, according to the Rev. Michael A. Foran, C.S.C., director oi retreats at Notre Dame. The practice ol an annual week-end retreat on the campus was started here in 1918. 

THE SIXTIETH ANNriVERS.<^Y of his final profession in the Congregation of Holy Cross was celebrated by Brother An­gclus Dolan, c.s.c, here, March 19. At 86 he is the oldest Brother in the United States ProWnce of Brothers. For 40 years he canvassed for The Ave Maria magazine, covering the United States, .Australia, and Canada. .Mumni will remember him as "Brother Dome," a title he acquired when guestmaster of the Universit>' for many years. 
WAGNERIAN SOPRANO Helen Trau­bel was guest artist of the South Bend Symphony orchestra during a concert May 7 at Notre Dame. 

THIRTEENTH ANNUAL conference of the Indiana College English .Association was held here April 30 and May 1. 
RAPID EXPANSION of tiie University library has made necessary the crea­tion of an Acquisition Department headed by Assistant Librarian Louis A. Eenney, former assistant librarian at the University of Illinois. The library, which lists nearly 300,000 volumes, is growing at a rate of more than 1.000 volumes a month. 
Rev. Philip S. Moore, CS. C dean 




TODAY 

THE NEXT GENER.\TION of scien­tists may be of inferior quality because of a scarcit)- of competent scientific instructors, the Rev. Philip S. Moore, c.s.c, dean of the Graduate School, told the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering during a meet­ing here April 24 and 25. While student rosters have increased 80 per cent, faculties have increased only 20 per cent. Father Moore pointed out. In addition to this lack in quantity there is a lack in quality be­cause government and industry are drawing some of the best men away from the uni­versities. 
The Rev. John Cavanaugh, c.s.c, presi­dent of Notre Dame, told the council that "Just now it almost sccTas that the govern­ment is deliberately undermining the one in­stitution—the privately controlled religious school—that is the staunchest defender of the principles that give it vitality and in­sure its future." 
After stressing that the very roots of de­mocracy are based on religion. Father Cav­anaugh pointed out that the effects of gov­ernment subsidy of education eventually will ducing morally responsible leaders embodied with the training to preserve this democracy. 
 |j 

Dame and heard Dr. Edward G. Mahin, head of the department, review research being conducted in the laboratories. Prof. James A. Reynicrs, Director of the Labora­tories of Bacteriolog)' at Notre Dame (LO­BUND) reported on the latest bills intro­duced in Congress for the establishment of a National Science Foundation and the im­portance of such a foundation for Notre Dame. The Rev. John J. Burke, c.s.c, business manager of Notre Dame, discussed the various problems of business manage­ment of research. 
The Advisor}' Council, which meets semi­annually to discuss expansion of research at Notre Dame, has as its chairman Edgar Kobak, president of the Mutual Broadcast­ing System. The vice-chairman is Bradley Dewey, president of Dewey and Almy Chem­ical Co., Cambridge, Mass. 
Other members arc: Britton I. Budd, president of the Public Ser\'ice Co. of North-em Illinois, Chicago; W. S. Calcott, assist­ant chemical director of the E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co., Inc., Wilmington, Del.: 
M. E. Coyle, executive vice-president. Gen­eral Motors Corp., Detroit; James C. Daley, president of the Jefferson Electric Co., Bell­wood, 111.; William Feeley, president of the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co., Chicago; William H. Harrison, vice-president of the American Telephone and Telegraph Co., New York; Thomas Pangborn, president of 
 oi the graduate schooL shown with Rev. 
Gerald B. Phelan, PhJ)., director of the Mediaeval Institute, received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from St. Mary's College, Oakland, Calii., at a special convo­cation on April 3. He also spoke at the Los Angeles Club's UND Night observance while in California. m 
the Pangborn Corp., Hagerstown, Md.: Peter C. Reilly, president of the Reilly Tar ^ and Chemical Corp., Indianapolis; Arthur 
J. Schmitt, president of the American Phe­nolic Corp., Cicero, 111.; Oliver Smalley, president, Meehanite Metal Corp., Cleve­land, O.; Lcland Standford, vice-president of the Sinclair Refining Co., New York; Harold S. Vance, president and chairman of the board of the Studebaker Corp., South Bend, and Dr. Albert F. Zahm, occupant of the Guggenheim Chair of Aviation, Washington, D. C. 
A TRIBUTE to the work of CalhoUc missionaries in China was given by Hallett Abend, for 16 years Chief Far Eastern Correspondent for the NEW YORE TIMES, in an interview following a lecture in South Bend. Mr. Abend, a Protestant, said that more than 2.500.000 Chinese Catholics testify to the fine work of several thousand Catholic mis­sionaries. 
Chinese Communists have always been controlled by Moscow, Mr. Abend said. He added that although the majority of the Chinese people do not 
W want Communism, neither do they want the present Chiang Kai-shek govern­ment which he labeled as corrupt and inefficient. 
.AMERICA has lost the peace. That was the theme of an address given here by Dr. Max Jordan, Central European representa­tive of the National Broadcasting Company and author of the book. Beyond All Fronts. He found little to praise in the .-Mlied occu­pation of Germany. He accused the victors of an unworkable and inhuman partition of Germany which deprived that countr>- of its eastern agricultural regions. 
A NATION-WIDE BROADCAST from Washington Hall at 6:30 pan. Monday, April 26. when Henry J. Taylor, author, journalist, and commentator, gave his twice weekly talk. "Your Land and Mine." over Mutual. 
* BIGGEST TROUBLE with the theater today is that serious dramatists want to use the stage for a soapbox, said Father Gilbert 
V. Hartke, O.P., in a talk that closed the Aquinas Lecture Series. The priest, who is the head of the ver>' successful speech and drama department at Catholic University, said that the theater will regain its popu­larity when writers quit using it to carry on political, sociological, and economic cru­sades, and return to the belief that the prime purpose of the stage is to amuse, please, delight, and entertain. 
THE FORTY THOUSAND priests in the United States need the help of Catholic laymen to bring the teachings of Christ to eighty million Americans who ore not affiliated with any church, the Rev. John 
A. O'Brien told the Catholic Laymen's First Friday Club of Chicago. The Notre Dame professor of Religion told the story of George M. Reichle, former in­
^ structor of speech at Notre Dame, who while in the army instructed 41 officers and enlisted men and saw each of them baptized into the Catholic Faith. Father O'Brien also told of Frank Estis who, with the help of a few assistants, made 332 converts and won back 104 foUen­away Catholics during 1947. 
STUDENTS will be able to matriculate at an .American-type university in Mexico this summer when the Department of Mod­ern Languages at Notre Dame sponsors the second annual Notre Dame summer session at Mexico City College from June 22 to .August 27. The session will provide a three­fold opportunity: to develop a fluency in the Spanish language in the real-life atmo­sphere of that language; broaden education by residence in a foreign land, and better inter-.American understanding. Though pri­marily for Notre Dame students, the special summer session is open to other interested persons, both men and women, provided they indicate a certain background in Span­ish studies or a desire to pursue such studies. 
DEAN JAMES E. McCAHTHY. of the College of Commerce, has been named chairman of the Jury of Awards for a national high school essay contest of the Advertising Federation of America. 
-ANY SYSTEM of education that does not teach the difference between right and wrong is morally sick, said the Rev. Robert 
H. Sweeney, c.s.c, executive assistant to the president of the university, in a St. Pat­rick's Day speech at Scranton, Pa. 
Referring to the Supreme Court decision that release-time religious instruction in the public schools of Champaign, 111., was un­constitutional because it violated the tra­ditional separation of Church and State, Father Sweeney pointed out that some "very disturbing consequences could come out of the Supreme Court's new ruling." 
"Does it mean that the public schools are now forbidden to teach the principles underlying the Declaration of Independ­ence?" Father Sweeney asked. "These prin­ciples are principles of the Christian reli­gion. They are not principles of Hinduism, Buddhism, Shintoism, or Mohammedanism; there are thousands of tax-paying adherents of these religions in the United States — many times more of them than there are avowed atheists like Mrs. Vashti McCoUum. 
"For example, has it become unconsti­tutional to teach in the public schools that men are endowed by their Creator with cer­tain inalienable rights? Is it unconstitu­tional to teach the children that stealing is wrong? Is it unconstitutional to teach chil­dren that there is a God who is our Crea­tor? Every one of these principles is denied by one or another religion other than the Christian and the Jewish." 
The Notre Dame executive pointed out that if the principle of divorce of the State and Religion is carried out to its final con­clusion, the public schools cannot teach a child that anything is wrong—or right—be­cause that is morality, and is religious teach­ing. He observed that the most they could do would be to assert that stealing and ly­ing and infant-murder arc against the law of the land as presently written on the statute books. 
POTENT QUESTIONS were oaked in a poll sponsored by TIME and con­ducted on the campus by students ma­joring in joumolism. 
Of the 153 Notre Dame students who answered the questionnaiie. 121 were ioTorable to the Marshall Plan. 18 were against it. and 14 confessed that they didn't know, or hadn't made up their minds, 
The United Nations has only a poor or faiT chance of being able to maintain peace, according to Notre Dame opin­ion. If there were no United Nations and we relied solely on ouiselTes backed by oiur atomic bomb, 121 oi the 153 ogieed that we would not hare a better chance for peace. 
The majority of the students polled agreed that it would be "a bad idea for the democratie countries of Western Europe to form a United States of Eur­ope with a plan of government some­thing like what we hare in the United Slates of America." and most were against a United States of the World. 
"In the conflict between Russia and America, which side is gaining and which is losing?" The poll showed that 112 thought Russia was gaining. 13 thought America was gaining, and 28 didn't know, or answered "neither." Who will be ahead 20 years from now? America drew 98, Russia 15. 
The SPRING ISSUE of Notre-Dame Lawyer features an article by the Honorable Warren R. Austin, United States Senator from Vermont from 1931 to 1946 and cur­rently representative of the United States to the United Nations, and an article by the Honorable Pat McCarran, United States Senator from Nevada. 
THE COVER of NFSE NEWS, maga­zii^e of the National Federation of Sales Executives, features the picture of Pro­fessor Brooks Smeelon. of the College of Commerce. The Notre Dame professor heads NFSE's Educational Survey Com­mittee. 
THE MILLION DOLL.AR visual mer­chandising education program developed by Goodyear was explained to students of mar­keting in the College of Commerce during a full-day session .April 28. 
NOBEL PRIZE WINNER Dr. Arthur H. Compton, Chancellor of Washington University, of SL Louis, ond one of the nation's leading scientists, delivered an address "Paths to Peoce" in Washing­ton hall. April 28. 
TWO NEW EDITIONS of books by Rev. Raymond W. Murray, cs.c , head of the Department of Sociology, have just been announced. The Bruce Publishing Com­
(Continued on P. 25) 



ATHLETICS • • 
Foofba/f 
The annual Varsity-Old Timers game, held each year in the Notre Dame Stadium between the current Irish N-arsity eleven and past Notre Dame stars, will assume added significance on Saturday, May 15, when the two teams clash before a crowd that may reach 20,000. 
First, it will mark the final appearance in Notre Dame Stadium of a number of Irish stars who will receive degrees in June— and included in this array will be a trio of all-time greats in quarterback Johnny Lujack and tackles George Connor and Ziggy Czarobski. 
And in direct connection with the ap­pearance for the last time of Lujack, Con­nor and Czarobski, a lead will be offered to the answer to the question of just how Coach Frank Leahy's national champions will fare during the 1948 season without these three vital cogs in the 1947 title ag­gregation. 
Other former stars who will perform with the Old Timers include left halfback Bob Lmngstone, defensive quarterback Pete Ashbaugh, fullbacks Floyd Simmons and Corwin Clatt, right halfback Bill Gompers, tackle George Sullivan, guard Joe Signaigo and place-kicking expert Fred Barley. 
From last year's national championship eleven and still in school performing for the Varsity will be ends Jim Martin and Leon Hart, guards Marty Wendell and Capt. Bill Fischer, center Bill Walsh, right halfback Emil Sitko and fullback John Panelli. Frank Tripucka will do the quarterbacking for the Varsit)-, taking over the duties \'acated by Lujack. 
Proceeds of the game will go to the aca­demic scholarship fund of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley. Frank Miles, of South Bend, is chairman of the game committee. The annual game marks the end of spring practice for the Varsity. 
Coach Leahy's chief problem during the Spring drills has been the consistent threat of injuries. Among the outstanding candi­

1948 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
Sept. 25—Purdue, at home 
Oct 2—At Pittsburgh 
Oct 9—Michigan State, at home 
Oct. 16—At Nebraska 
Oct 23—^At Iowa 
Oct 30—Navy, at Baltimore 
Nov. 6—^At Indiana 
Nor. 13—Northwestern, at home 
Nov. 20—Open 
Nov. 27—Washington, at home 
Dec 4—At Southern California 
Catcher Tom Cocdtti. second baseman 

By Raymond J. Donovan, '42 
Assistant Director of Public Information 

dates for the 1948 Irish who have been shelved by injuries are left halfbacks Terry Brennan and Ernie Zalejski, and tackles Jack Fallon and Dean Thomas. None of the quartet is expected to be able to par­ticipate in the annual game and with espe­cially the t\vo tackle spots conspicuous by a scarcity of seasoned performers, the task of moulding the 1948 team in the Spring 
session has been even more difficult for Coach Leahy. 

Baseball 

Still searching for a semblance of much needed power at the plate. Coach Clarence 
J. (Jake) Kline's Notre Dame baseball team swings into the second stage of a rugged 2»j-game schedule seeking to improve on a bad start which saw the Irish drop five out of their first seven contests. 
The Irish diamond crew, definitely miss­ing the slugging ability of last season's hard­hitting trio of Jack Mayo, Tom Sheehan and Bobby Klein, proved in its first seven games of the season that plenty of class is available in the pitching and fielding de­partments, but that extra punch necessary 
to win close ball games is lacking. 
Although victorious in only two out of seven games at the outset of the season, the Klinemen's record actually is not as bad as it appears on paper. For example, all five of the losses by the Irish baseballers were dropped by one-run margins. 
Notre Dame opened the season with a four-game series in Cincinnati, emerging victorious in only one of the quartet. The Irish dropped a pair of tilts to the Univer­sity of Cincinnati by scores of 4 to 3 and 2 to 1, and lost to Xavier University by a 4 to 3 count before salvaging the second game against Xavier by a 5 to 2 margin. 
Still hitting the road, the Blue and Gold stopped off at Peoria, 111., to meet Bradley . and after big John Creevey had tossed three-hit ball for seven innings he was tagged for .1 home run with one on to drop a 2 to 1 decision. And in two more contests decided by., a single run, Notre Dame edged past Iowa, 8 to 7, with a ninth-inning rally and lost a 4 to 3 tilt to the Hawkeyes at Iowa City. 
Coach Kline is juggling his lineup in an effort to get more punch into the starting nine. At third base, where Gene Lavery started the season, Tom Martin also is being given an opportunity. Shortstop is well set with Pete Koblosh, who with a .384 average in the first seven games is the only Irish 
S*^!^ 
•-•si;>4 

ravi.'^-;: 

 Benny Kozlik. outfielder Tom McHale, 
and first baseman Bay Petrzelka, four o! Jake Kline's sluggers, take aim with their 
bats. 

hitting over .300, while Benny Kozlik holds down second and Ray Petrzelka is set at first. Tom Cocchitti, Dick Rattay and Jim Presley all have alternated behind the plate, while Walt Mahanna, Jack Campbell, Dick Kluck, John Creevey and Dick SmuUen provides a strong pitching staff. In the outfield Coach Kline has used primarily Capt. Steve Pavela, Don Grieve, Rattay and Creevey. 
The remaining games are: 

May I—Indiana at Notre Dame (doublchcader) 
May -i—Northwestern at Noire Dame 
May 7—Wisconsin at Madison 
May 8—Wisconsin at Madison 
May 11—Purdue at Lafayette 
ifay 1-1—Ohio State at Notre Dame 
May 15—Ohio Slate at Notre Dame 
^fay 18—Michigan at Ann Arbor 
May 20—Michigan at Notre Dame 
May 22—Michigan Stale at East Lansing 
May 25—Purdue at Notre Dame 
May 26—Northwestern at £\'aiiston 
May 29—Michigan State at Notre Dame 
June 3—^Toledo University at Toledo 'nii^ht game) 
June 4—Western Michigan at Notre Dame 
June 5—^Western Michigan at N 3tre Dame 




Track 

After only mediocre performances in the Kansas Relays and Drake Relays to open the outdoor season. Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy's Notre Dame outdoor track and field squad looks ahead to a triangular meet and a pair of dual affairs as features of the outdoor campaign. 
In the Kansas Relays, the Irish tracksters copped a trio of third places in the three-mile relay, the four-mile relay and the tv/o­mile relay events. Only a bad spill over the last hurdle, injuring his leg, kept ace hurdler John Smith from copping second place in the 120-yard hurdles in which the famed Harrison Dillard of Baldwin-Wallace turned in a record performance of 13.6 sec-seconds. Smith's leg injur)- also kept him out of the Drake Relays. 
The only Notre Dame team which placed in the crack field at the Drake Relays in Des Moines, la., was the sprint medley ag­gregation. The Irish held down the second place spot in the event until the final five yards when a sudden burst of speed by Wis­consin's Don Gehrmann overtook Notre 
' Dame's Bill Leonard. 
Expected to provide most of the power for the Irish during the outdoor campaign are hurdlers John Smith and Bill Fleming, dashman Bob Smith, two-miler Jim Mur­phy, miler Leonard and Capt. Ernie Mc­Cullough in the 440-yard dash. 
The remaining schedule follows: 

May 1—^Triangular Meet with Bradley ,ind Drake 
at Peoria, 111. May 8—Marquette at Milu-aukce May 15—Michigan State at Votre Dame May 22—State Meet at Bloomington, Ind. June 12—Central Collegiates at MiluMukec 

Tennis 

Coach Walter Langford's Notre Dame tennis team, undefeated since 1946, got off to a good start in quest of its second con­secutive undefeated season by trouncing Wisconsin's Badgers, 9 to 0, in the opening match of the season. 
So complete was Notre Dame's mastery over a good Wisconsin team in the initial 

Alumni to Gather on Campus June 4-6 for Annual Reimion 
The Golden .•\nniversary of the class of 1898 and the Silver Anniversary of the class of 1923 take over top billing as the campus prepares to welcome back once more, on June 4, 5 and 6, the Notre Dame men of other years. As before, the annual Alumni Reunion will be joined with the activities of Commencement. 
Alumni will register, as they did last year, at a booth at the main entrance to the campus and from this point will be directed to residence halls. In the traditional reunion way, halls will be assigned by classes so that friends of the same Notre Dame era will be together again. 
(In answer to several inquiries, the ALUMNUS is happy to stress the point that there will be residence accommodations on the campus for all returning alumni, and for these accommodations only a small fee, to cover the cost of ser\'ice and laundry, will be asked. The campus unfortunately cannot provide accommodations for wives, and the hotels in South Bend and nearby cities have long since been sold out for the Commence­ment and Reunion weekend). 
On page 3 of this issue, readers will find a tentative program of Commencement ac­tivities. And in the news of their respective class, also in this issue, most reunioners will find in detail the news of what has been 
contest that the Badgers managed to win only one set during the entire meet, and al­though the Irish will miss last year's power­house, Charles Samson, they gave indica­tion that they will be among the nation's best once again during the 1948 campaign. 
The "old reliables" on the Notre Dame court squad again this year are the Evert brothers. Captain Jerry and Jimmy. The Everts, winners of the doubles title in the western indoor meet this Spring while Jim­my also beat his brother for the singles championship, arc backed up by such ca­pable veterans as Bob David, Joe Brown, Gene Biittner and Phil Lyons. 
The remaining schedule is: 
May 1—Michigan at Notre Dame May 5—Marquette at Milu-aukee May 8—DePauw at Xotre Dame May 12—Michigan State at East L.in3ing May 15—Kentucky at Le.xington May 18—Western Michigan at Kalamazoo May 21—Northwestern at Ev-anston ifay 22—Purdue at Notre Dame June 3, 4 and 5—C.C.C. Tennis Meet at Detroit 
Tennis Club (sponsored by U. of Detroit) 


Golf 

Notre Dame's golf squad, coached by the Rev. George L. Holderith, c.s.c, gave every indication of bright things to come during the 1948 season by a pair of outstanding performances in the first two matches of the season. 
Father Holderith's linksmen came through Continued on Page 15 
planned for them by their class secretaries and reunion chairmen. 
Both the class of 1898 and the class of 1923 will have dinners on Friday evening, June 4, the former in the Dining Hall at Notre Dame and the latter in the LaSalle Hotel, South Bend. And the 20-year class of 1928 will have a fish fry the same eve­ning, starting at 7 pjn. in the Izaak Walton League club house, north of South Bend. 
The wartime class of 1918, 30 years out, is gathering its small but potent forces under the direction of John Lemmer, class secre­tary, and Father George Holderith, c.s.c, local reunion chairman, and before this issue of the ALUMNUS is in the mail class mem­bers will probably have word of what Father Holderith has planned by way of a Friday night gathering. 
The class of 1933, sparked by Joe Mc­Cabe, secretary, and Al Artz and Paul Boehm, the local chairman and vice-chair­man, respectively, have lined up the Vets Recreation Hall on the campus for their Friday evening party. The boys of 1938 will have a similar party at Manherchor Hall in South Bend and the latest five-year class, 1943, will congregate at the Indiana Club, South Bend. 
The class of 1923, with the class of 1898 attending, will be guests Saturday noon at a luncheon in the University Dining Hall. All reunion classes will have memorial Masses on Saturday morning or Sunday morning or both. And the classes will, of course, be seated together at the annual Alumni Banquet on Saturday evening. 
It looks like a full weekend. 
BEUNION OF NJ). LAWYERS 

A meeting at 9:30 on Sattnday morning, lune 5. in the Low Building auditorium will ieatuie the general reunion oi Notie Dame lawyers to be held during the Commencement weekend. June 4. 5 and 6. 
At this meeting, according to pres­ent plans, the Noire Dame Legal As­sociation will be formed. Commit­tees, working with Deem Clarence Manion of the Low SchooL hare been framing a proposed constitution ond set oi by-laws {or the new organiza­tion. Officers will be elected. 
All Notre Dame men who are law­yers ore parliculorly invited and urged to be present for the weekend and especially for the Saturday morn­ing meeting. Those who were law students at other schools are eqnoUy welcome with those who were gradu­ated from the Noire Dome College of Low. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

4^at the Siluet /i4uiLae%iafi4f,, /In, /IcMed SUee*t 

The 25th U. N. D. Night Observance 
The 25th annual Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated on April 5, 1948. And in all ways it was a Night befitting a Silver Annivcrsarj-. 
' Written reports from all over the coun­tr\', printed in the club section of this issue of the ALUMNUS, as well as many letters and much word-of-mouth comment, indicate clearly that this world-wide tribute to Notre Dame, initiated by the late John H. Necson, '03, of Philadelphia, in 1924, reached its climax in the year 1948. 
In the number and caliber of club meet­ings, in the extent of radio coverage, both nationally and locally (through the courtesy of the Mutual Broadcasting System and the cooperation of many local Mutual outlets), in constructive newspaper publicity, in the number of speakers who went out from the campus, this year's Universal Notre Dame Night advanced even beyond the remark­able records of other years. 
And there were some notable "firsts." This year for the first time, with the aid o* Dan D. Halpin, '31, the main observance of U. N. D. Night, in Philadelphia, was in part televised. Through the courtesy of the National Broadcasting Company, a half-hour of the program from the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel went out to the Eastern television chain. 
Prof. Reyniers Beceives Award 

And in Chicago, at the Chicago Club's observance in the Drake Hotel, Prof. James 
A. Reyniers, '30, head of the Laboratories of Bacteriolog)' at Notre Dame, received the club's first annual award for outstanding accomplishment by a Notre Dame faculty member. This was another notable "first," and gave merited recognition to a man who is devoting his years to studies in germ-free life. 
Several clubs began this year the laudable practice of recognizing by an award an out­standing member who has contributed in a special way both to the activities of the club and to the life of the community. And the Triple Cities Club in Binghamton, N. Y., directed by James H. Hogan, president, built its Universal Night around a tribute to one oS its native sons who this year is president of the National Conference of Catholic Charities, Rev. Joseph B. Toomcy, '26, di­rector of charities in the diocese of Syracuse. 
Philadelphia Meeting a Sellout 

Eleven hundred attended the central ob­ser\'ance of Universal Night in Philadelphia, and the ticket sale had to be stopped a week ahead of the event. Principal speakers were Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c, president of the University, Dr. Clarence "Pat" Manion, dean of the Law School, and Frank Leahy, director of athletics, all of whom were heard on the half-hour national broadcast of the Mutual Broadcasting System, and Harry G. Hogan, president of the Alumni Association. Jack Lavelle, '28, New York City, -was toastmaster. 
The dinner, following a reception, was opened with the invocation by Most Rev. 
J. Carroll McCormick, auxiliary bishop of the archdiocese of Philadelphia. Charles 
A. Conley, retiring club president, wel­comed the guests and presented the gavel of office to John H. Neeson, Jr., '35, new club president, who is the son of the founder Harold Duke Outstanding Alumnus 
of Universal Notre Dame Night. Other  
new club officers for the year are: Charles  
M. Dougherty, vice-president; Robert E.  
Bums, Jr., secrctarj*; William G. Burns, as­ 
sistant secretar\-; and Charles McKinney,  
assistant treasurer..  
Mr. Neeson then introduced the distin­ 
guished guests who included, in addition to  
Bishop McCormick and the speakers. Vice  
Admiral James L. Kauffman, U.S.N., com­ 
mandant. Fourth Naval District: Hon. Fran­ 
cis J. Myers, United States senator; George  
William McClelland, president. University  
of Pennsylvania: Rev. John J. Long, s.j.,  
president, St. Joseph's College; Robert L.  
Johnson, president. Temple University: Rev.  
Francis X. N. McGuire, O.S.A., president,  ^  
Villanova College; Brother G. Paul, F.s.C,  "  
president, LaSallc College; Rev. James W.  
Connerton, c.s.c, president. King's College,  
Wilkes Barre, Pa.: Rev. James W. Gibbons,  
rector, St. Joseph's-in-the-Hills, Malvern,  
Pa.; Hon. Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, trus­ 
tee. University of Notre Dame; George A.  
Munger, football coach. University of Penn­ 
sylvania; Hon. Vincent A. Carroll, judge.  
Court of Common Pleas No. 2, Philadelphia;  
Frank M. Folsom, executive vice-president.  
Radio Corporation of America; Hon.  
Eugene C. Bonniwell, judge, Municipal  
Court, Philadelphia; Hon. James P. Afc- 
Graner)*, judge, U. S. District Court.  

Rev. Charles Mahoney, c.s.c, chaplain of the Philadelphia Club, offered the bene­diction at the end of the dinner. Johnny McGee and his orchestra supplied music for the dancing which followed. The Rhythmaires, a quartette, furnished dinner music. 
The local award of the year's outstand­ing alumnus in the Philadelphia area this year went to Harold E. Duke, '30, a direc­tor of the Alumni Association, who was pre­sented wth a scroll in recognition of his efforts concerned with promoting good will toward Notre Dame. Dan Young, '22, re­ceived the same award a year ago. 
James A. Nolen, Jr., was genera] chair­man of the club committee which arranged the central obscr\'ance of Universal Notre Dame Night in Philadelphia. Committee chairmen were: Charles McKinney, recep­tion; Daniel Halpin, television-radio; Thomas Lewis, publicity: Harold Duke, re­lations; John Neeson, Jr., program; William Bodo, entertainment; Daniel Young, ar­rangements; Clifford Prodehl, decorations; Walter Ridley, tickets; A. F. Dudley, pa­trons; Arthur Coughlin, parents; and Charles Conley, alumni clubs. 
Delegations came from nearby Notre A ' 
Shown at the Philadelphia observance are, left (o right, fohn H. Neeson, Jr., son o! the iounder oi UND Night* the principal speakers, Clarence Manion, Dean oi the Law School. Frank Leahy, and Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president: and Charles Conley. —Photo by Philadelphia Inquirer Volume 26, No. 3, May-June, 1948 
Dame clubs. Leo Mclntyre headed an Al­lentown, Pa., contingent, and Gil Perr)' a group from Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Joe Farrell and several others came from Harrisburg, Pa., and Pete Morgan and some others rep­resented Trenton, N. J.; Art Baum and Tom Gillespie headed the Wilmington, Del., party. 
The coast-to-coast Mutual broadcast orig­inated with Station WIP in Philadelphia, and the telecast was handled locally by sta­tion WPTZ. Station WIBG, Philadelphia, carried a regional, broadcast of the dinner. 
Private schools conducted according to religious principles arc the "greatest single force today for the prcser\-ation of a sound .-\merica," Father Cavanaugh said in his widely acclaimed address. 
In vigorously defending the private school, the existence of which, he said, is being threatened by "competitive state-sponsored forces," Father Cavanaugh de­clared, in part: 
"It seems to me that the .American private school, founded on the religious principles that arc woven into the pattern of American democracy, and still teaching on the sound foundation of those principles, is our great­est single force today for the preservation of a sound .'\mcrica. 
SCENES 

For Additional UND Night Pictures See Pages 20-21 and the Club Section 

"Church and home can and must, of course, contribute immeasurably, and are by nature more fundamental, but only as the home is implemented in the principles of the church through the medium of the schools can we hope for organized strength sufficient to ofTsct the increasing forces of a society no longer acquainted with the fun­damental principles upon which it rests. 
".And here wc come to the greatest para­dox of our time: The verj- private school, with its religious roots, that seems to be the salvation of our democracy, is becoming in­creasingly the victim of competitive state-sponsored forces which threaten its ver)­being. It does not take an educator or an administrator to read in the report of Presi­dent Truman's Commission on Higher Edu­cation the potential death knell of many of our private schools." 
Father Cavanaugh pointed out that if the government "continues increasingly to pour into the ta.x-supported public schools the money which will enable them to build the classrooms, the laboratories, the libra­ries, the residence facilities, conducive to the program of modem education; if its largess permits them to outbid all other schools for the best faculties in the fields of learning: and if, on top of that, they can offer these advantages to young men and \%'omen free of charge, the fate of the pri­vate school becomes largely a matter of time rather than of speculation." 
The Notre Dame president continued, in part: 
"And remember, in these highly modem and thoroughly equipped buildings, bril­liantly staffed, and filled with all of the young leaders of tomorrow, God must not be mentioned. I am sure then that you will understand why we are concerned, not just for Notre Dame, but for all private education. 
"From the campuses and classrooms and laboratories of pri\-ate schools have come many of the men, many of the advances in knowledge that have made America great. They have been the reservoirs of progress, the fountains ol youth for Ameri­can leadership. They should be the intel­lectual Fort Kno.xes, where the gold of independence is stored against the day 
(Continued on Page 39) 

 FROM THE "KEY" CELEBRATION IN PHILADELPHIA 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 



New Fields Open as Foundation Long-Range Program Progresses 
The importance of special forms of giv­ing in supplementing the annual unre­stricted gifts of alumni and friends has been growing and contributing constructive thinking to the long-range program to solve Notre Dame's needs. 
To reach the tentative and estimated $25,000,000 figure which represents only the progress which Notre Dame should en­joy within the next 10 years, it is the con­sensus of opinion that all of the programs of fund-raising which arc being used suc­cessfully by various agencies must be com­bined under the program of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
The Annual Alumni Fund is of course being maintained and developed as one of the most basic programs, on the success of which will depend to a large extent the success of other programs. 
The program by which all alumni are asked to enlist similar annual support from non-alumni friends should lead to an an­nual giving program which will parallel and 
•which should ultimately outnumber and outgive the limited alumni program itself. 
Corporation Giving 
Henr)- C. Wurzer, Foundation Governor foi Iowa, is the newly appointed chairman of a Foundation committee to study the ap­plication of corporation giving as it might affect Notre Dame. His committee consists of Foundation Governors John E. Cassidy (Illinois), Hugh O'Neill (Ohio), John E. Moore (Michigan) and Galvin Hudson (Tennessee). 
Some implications of this field are con­tained in excerpts from an article by Laird Bell in the May Atlantic Monthly: 

"Some reasons for corporate interest in education, not too obvious at first glance, lie in certain trends of education which should give corporations increasing con­cern. Two of these are outstanding, both involving the heightening of governmental control of education. 
"The first is the ver>- bulk of the in­stitutions direcdy supported by the state. Whole cities of students have moved in upon the state universities, California, Min­nesota, Illinois, Wisconsin, to name only a few, have populations in the neighborhood of 25,000 each. Annual budgets of more than 25 million dollars are accepted as a matter of course by the legislatures. To date, the legislatures have usually kept their hands off what the educators do with the money, and the freedom of the state uni­versities in their educational endeavors has, OD the whole, been respected. One won­
ders, however, how long legislators will re­strain themselves as they pour out these colossal sums. 
"Frontal attack upon such freedom is probably not so threatening as that from the flank. The happy sport of legislative investigating committees and the witch hunt for "reds" in faculties contain hints of con­trol that don't have to be spelled out for teachers. And we might as well face the fact that to the average man, and particu­larly the businessman, academic freedom is not an appealing concept. The businessman is accustomed to giving orders and to firing people whose actions don't meet with his appro\-al. He doesn't like to have his own economic and political views questioned by persons who never met a payroll, or to have "impressionable young people" subjected to acquaintance with "wild theories"; he would get rid of those disturbing professors. And legislators think in these respects much as businessmen do. It is a fair assumption that the prospect is for more governmental control rather than less. 
HENRY C. WUBZEB Iowa Foundation Governor 

"Well as the state institutions have de­fended their academic integrity so far, there 
can be little doubt that the privately en­dowed institutions are more secure in their freedom from political pressure. ... At least relatively, the endowed institutions may be regarded as citadels of freedom from political domination. 
"There is no need to expand on the plight of the endowed institutions. Teachers must eat, like the rest of us, and their sal­aries will have to follow the cost-of-living curves. State pride can be counted on to enlarge university appropriations to meet growing costs. But endowment funds are not so elastic; rather, their yield has been drastically cut down. Tuitions cannot be raised indefinitely in competition with the 
state-supported schools, even if the colleges were prepared to disregard the bad social effect of excluding students of slender means. At best, mounting costs and falling income may well snuff out the endowed lamps of learning in the fairly near future unless substantial help is forthcoming from sources which can afford such help. . . . 
Endowed Institutions Freer 

"There are also subtler results to be feared. Our own state institutions are not so free as the endowed to e-xperiment and to pioneer in untried lines, or in lines which may in the first instance be looked at askance by the voters. Or it may be neces-^ ' sEry, in order to get funds for serious proj­ects, to submit to logrolling and set up courses demanded by pressure groups, such as the ology of beauticians in California, thereby at one stroke debasing higher edu­cation and dissipating the energies of ad­ministration over trivialities. .. . A brilliant project like the Nieman Fellowships at Har­vard would be almost unthinkable but for private generosity; a state university would probably have had to set up one more school of journalism to grind out mediocre reporters for whom there are no jobs. 
"The possibility of dry rot and mediocrity settling down upon state-supported schools without the stimulus of competition from the freer schools must also be recognized. The effect of all these factors can be tested by imagining what it would be like if we had forty-eight state universities and no Harvard or Chicago or similar institution to set the pace; or by contemplating the ex­tinction of the liberal arts colleges. gk 
"A more immediate concern of corporate business is research. Evidently business con­siders research worth while. No business feels itself up to date unless it spends some money on research, and reports to stock­holders are full of pictures of handsome young men in white coats, looking at test tubes. The idea of research has, it is true, been debased somewhat as it has functioned in commerce. There is a tendency to feel that you put a nickel into the machine and take out a bottle of research. It covers everything from cooking up a new plastic to counting the people that go past the comer drugstore. There is, however, enough se­rious research going on in business to make it clear that managements believe the genu­ine article to be worth paying for. 
"Much excellent scientific work has been done in corporate laboratories, but it is necessarily somewhat cramped because it must be pointed directly at developing a product or a process that will create profits ^ in the near future. Yet nature doesn't have ^ her secrets departmentalized; a botanist may Volume 26, No. 3, May-June, 1948 
develop an anesthetic, as has in fact been 
done. Yet few corporations can justify staffs in all branches of learning, while the in­vestigator in a university can call upon spe­cialists in nearly every field. Forward-look­
*ing managements art therefore turning more and more to the widespread facilities 
of universities for light on their problems, and the field has been but scratched." 
Wills and Bequests 

The possibilities of additional income to Notre Dame from wills and bequests has been under study for some months. Presi­dent Hogan has referred the national study to a Committee of the Governors and City Chairmen consisting of James P. Swift (Texas), Leo B. Ward (Los Angeles) and E A. Berkery (New York). 
.lOHN E. CASSIDY Illinois Foundation Governor 

City Committees have already set up, in major centers, fourteen special sub-com­mittees to work in this special field. 
A campus conference with .'Archie Palmer, nationally known authority in educational fund raising, revealed the significant infor­
• mation that one major university raised six million dollars in twelve years under such a stimulated program. Many universities op­erate a special and very active program in this one field. 
The opportunities will also be presented to the proposed organization of Notre Dame law alumni. 
Insurance Giving 

The many ramifications of possible gifts to Notre Dame through the medium of in­surance were discussed at a campus confer­ence of alumni in the insurance business. 
To continue the study of the many phases of this major field President Hogan appointed an Educational Committee con­sisting of Frank Howland, Memphis, chair­man; Joseph Stewart, Kansas City, vice-chairman, and Joseph Casasanta, South Bend, secretary, and a sub-committee on in-
I surance research consisting of Paul Hoef­fler. Providence, chairman, Jerome Arnold, Davenport, and James H. Brennan, Chicago. 
The conclusions of' the first insurance conference are of- general interest: 
I. The University of Notre Dame Founda-^ tion is primarily concerned with the raising of money for the University. It is not properly confined to any chan­nel, such as an annual fund, wills and bequests, insurance, annuities, etc., but should open its efforts to any proper form of gift. 

II.
 Notre Dame insurance men, it was unanimously agreed upon by the Com­mittee, do not want to appear to be utilizing this field for any personal ad­vancement. This produced two sugges­tions : 

A.
 The impetus for insurance giving should come from some other per­son (City Chairman, Will and Trust Committee Chairman, etc.) than an insurance alumnus. 

B.
 In all instances, givers interested in insurance giving should be advised to see their own insurance counselor, and not directed to a Notre Dame agent. 



III.
 There will, it was suggested, probably be more potentials in the field of paid-up insurance, without sales incentive, than in new sales. 

A.
 Persons with paid-up insurance, whose obligations have terminated with the death or maturity of de­pendents, etc. 

B.
 An exception, which offers a rich field of attention,, is the conversion of capital investment in other low-interest brackets, into insurance an­nuities. 



IV. Whatever the application of effort to call attention to a field of giving which all agreed has tremendous possibilities, it was again unanimously agreed that insurance was not to be indicated as a substitute for other forms of giving, but was to be emphasized only as a supple­ment to or a perpetuation of annual giving, or a guarantee of project or capital giving for endowment (in effect, insuring the custom or the intention of 
donors in all fields). 

N.B. The above basic considerations gave rise to the suggestion of the Committee that instead of organizing separate Insurance Committees in each community, the City Chairman be given the option of simply making a member of the City Committee a sub-chairman in the field of insurance giv­ing, or that the Committee on Wills and Living Trusts be set up to include insurance forms of giving as an added objective, with possibly an insurance man included in its membership for expert counsel. 
Special Gifts 

Any program of the scope of the Foun­dation program must always keep in mind the special gifts necessary to finance the major projects planned. The University Department of Public Relations provides the nucleus for such a program. Studies are 
n 

under way for the expansion of the objec­tives, procedures and penonnd of such a pn^ram on the larger scale it must reach in order to provide adequate implementiiig of the University's pn^ress. 
Benjamin Fine, in his bool^ "Our Chil­dren Arc Cheated," expresses several thou^ts pertinent to the Foundation pro­gram: 
"Through the schook our future voters learn how to be intcUigent citizens in a com-
GALVn HUDSON Tennesaa Fonndatioii Goremor 

plicated society; they discover that responsi­bilities and duties are as important as priv^ ileges and rights. 
"American colleges and universities, jammed beyond capacity, are facing very serious problems. During the war the col­leges were in trouble because the student body had dwindled to a mere trickle. Selec­tive service had taken most of the eligible' young men from the campuses; in many in­stitutions only a skeleton force of students and faculty members remained. 
"With this tremendous enrollment have come problems of readjustment. Many of the situations are facing a financial break­down; a student's tuition fees do not pay for the cost of his education; the coUeg* suffers a substantial loss on every student that it admits. With the onrush of veterans after the war, the colleges found themselvts going deeper and deeper into debt. Many turned to the federal government for help in maintaining their institutions. Others con­ducted fund-iaising campaigns to secure revenues. Still others were forced to bor­row on their endowment or from the banks 
in order to continue. 
"Inflated building costs, likevirise, add to college headaches. Many college officials are prepared to expand their facilities. They have allocated sulntantial sums for the con­struction of new buildings; but the con­struction will have to wait until men and materials aro available. In the meantime the pressure on the college'continues to grow apace. With each passing year the difficul­ties colleges encoimter will increase. We are 

Continued on Page 14 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

The Role of the Notre Dame Man in the Present Critical Era 

Tor God, for Country, and for Notre Dame 
The Foundation windows on the South look out on the Memorial Door of Sacred Heart Church which commemorates 56 Notre Dame men who gave their lives in World War I for God, for countr\- and for Notre Dame. In the vestibule of that same Church there are presently 327 memorial plates of the names of Notre Dame men who made the same sacrifice in World War II. 
In anal>-zing the program for alumni in the critical period in which we now find ourselves, the inevitable conclusion is that all of us must be as steadfast in our prin­ciples, as valiant in our effort, and as effec­tive in our example, if this is to be the peace to end war. 
The boys whose names are on those plates are familiar to all of us. They ask no more for their heroism than do the living heroes who have melted into the halls and class­rooms of today's campus. 
But we and our world would be ungrate­ful indeed if we did not recognize that against the backdrop of their graves we have a vital part to play. Unless the actors take the stage, the value of the setting may be lost. 
Our parts are written clearly in the script of Notre Dame. They can be outlined under the beautiful trilogj' that has too long been identified only with our dead. 
"For God—" 
In the example of his personal life, in­structed and inspired by the great Christian tradition that brought Notre Dame into be­ing, ever\- Notre Dame man is armed with the greatest weapon in the conquest of the modem world. 
The atom bomb or biological warfare be­come secondary- forces in the face of the apostolate that made twelve humble men greater conquerors than any of the militar)­leaders in the historj- of the Christian world. 
This, then, is Act 1 for all of us, the consciousness that the spiritual integrity of our own lives reaches beyond the goal of personal salvation and becomes by example a power of aggression that makes us truly the most hopeful of the soldiers of civiliza­tion. 
Trained by Notre Dame, we have advan­tages in this phase of our mission that make us all in effect officers. .•\nd as our oppor­tunities have been great, our obligations are great. 
It is not my proWnce to preach. But I know that you all share with me the rich tradition of placing first things first, and we would fail indeed if we did not base our present program on the immovable rock of religion. 
By JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25, 
Alumni Secretary and Executive Vice-Chairman of the University of Notre Dame Foundation 


"For Country—" 

We come now to a phase of our mission that has suffered from neglect. All over America, there is a restlessness in higher education which stems from a conscience that feels our leadership has failed. And the feeling of failure is aggravated by the knowledge that this leadership should have been derived in much larger measure than it has from the enrichment of our national mind by the advantages of the greatest sys­tem of higher education a countrj- has ever enjoyed. 
.•\nd if the broad poverty of leadership is attributable to higher education generally, how much more conscience-stricken ought we be of the religious colleges to be in the presence of the spiritual bankruptcy of our leadership. 
For even as we have reflected technolog­ical progress we have seen the failure to e.vert responsible moral control over the forces thus created. And our very revered standard of living has been wasted because wc have forgotten our standards of life. 
We have been blessed with the opportunity now to restore the fundamental principles of family and of countr>-. There is almost a hunger in our country to know why our victories seem empty and our high produc­tion potentials seem futile. 
A Force for Reconstruction 

In Philadelphia, on Universal Notre Dame Night, Notre Dame men pointed out con­clusively that in the training of Notre Dame there is the vitalizing force to reconstruct the sound patterns of our past. 
It is not a complex problem. It resolves itself largely into bringing to the civic, the professional, the fraternal groups in which we move the things that so many of them have lost, many through no fault of their own. 
It consists of knowing and saying out loud that unless God builds the house he labors in vain who builds it. 
We do not need to quote papal encyclicals or councils of bishops, Thomas Aquinas or Monsignor Sheen, to make these points, where prejudice might reject them. We have found that we can quote George Wash­ington, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jeffer­son, James Wilson, and older Supreme Courts, who knew well, and who wrote for posterit\' the famous documents that for more than a century were the fully accepted 
doctrines of a government that grew great. 
We know these things. They are a part of our heritage as Americans, and more im­portant a part of our heritage as Notre Dame men who have been trained to be leaders. 
So we must be articulate. We have un­derestimated the speed with which secular influence has widened the breach between religion and education, and between religion and government. 
The recent graphic examples of the domi­nance of secular thinking in our courts and in our schools is only a logical product of our negligence. But they are also the im­mediate call t # a duty that is peculiarly ours to restore by our power of articulation A ) and our clarity of thought the fundamental principles that must motivate government and education if democracy as we have cre­ated it in America is to live. And it must be interpreted in these same fundamental aspects of its integration with religious prin­ciples if it is to be effective in the creation of world peace. 
This is our call to battle for our countr>-, a call that should be as stirring as any war cry in our history. Victory will be more permanent, more satisfying, than any that America has ever won. Sacrifice will be as richly regarded as those of the saints or sol­diers of other times. 

"For Notre Dame—" 

And we come inevitably to the third great objective of our program, Notre Dame. 
Whatever you may do for God or for Country will of course reflect in generous ^ measure for Notre Dame. ^" 
There is already at Notre Dame a rich sense of satisfaction in the record of the Notre Dame men over the years in all of the fields for which they have been trained, in all of the challenges they have been called upon to meet. 
There is the unequalled satisfaction of knowing that what Notre Dame has stood for during the 106 years of its existence, what has been the unchanging basis of her educational processes, is not only unshaken by the shifting of the century in which it has flourished, but comes now to the fore­front of American education as being more sound in its religious roots, more patriotic in its preparation of citizens for leadership in our democracy, and more integrated in its academic progress to the proper balances of the changing and the unchanging than any other system of education. 
And there is as a result of this feeling of rightness a sort of exaltation in accepting ^ ' the challenge to progress that, parado.xic-^ 
ally, Notre Dame is meeting at the very moment of its institutional vindication. 
^k. We arc not basking in the security of our own University conscience and missing the implications of legislation and philanthropy that can undo much of the work we have done, and which can turn our long years of slow progress into short years of rapid decline. 
So we have organized the spirit of Notre Dame, which is peculiarly ours, and at the same time peculiarly contagious to hosts of friends. 
We must meet the challenge of existence largely on three fronts. 
Must Euild Facilities 

The first is enrollment. It is important to Notre Dame and, we believe, to all of the things for which Notre Dame stands includ­ing country, family and Church, that the maximum number of deserving and able young men be given the advantages of the education which has now been proved, be­yond all doubt, to create a responsible lead­ership no longer a matter of option if our v.'orld is to live. As you know, we are now in a period of oversupply of these young 
^ men. We are doing all that we can, with 
^ their considerate cooperation, to give the greatest number of them a Notre Dame edu­cation withoiit sacrificing its essential stand­ards. We must, however, if we are to hold to the present enrollment — and we believe that it is destined to persist for a number of years to come — build substantially to create the facilities necessary for proper and normal realization of our objectives. And we must have the added financial resources to create and to hold the proper facilities for these young men, and to attract and as­sist such young men from all geographical areas, and in all fields of training, to secure their training for leadership at Notre Dame. The second great field of challenge is prestige. Here we are face to face with needs that can only be interpreted in terms of financial assistance. We must have the buildings and the equipment to train the scientists, the law>xrs, the business leaders, the journalists, the architects, the engineers, to compete with the modern young men 
A from the richly endowed classrooms and lab­oratories of the greatest private schools and the increasingly subsidized facilities of the tax-supported institutions. We must not lose our faculties to the schools that can offer them higher salaries. And we must not ex­pect to ask deserving students, with all the evidences of ability, to pay fully for educa­tion which they may obtain without cost in other schools, or to persist in the expensive levels of graduate work without help after they have exhausted frequently modest means in the undergraduate processes. We are going ahead within our limits on the theory that we will enlist the necessary sup­port to do what we have to do as well as it can be done anj-where. Our faculties and our students have demonstrated that they can produce competitively to the degree to which they are equipped and financed. Our prestige presently is sound. ' But we are encountering intensive development in the colleges and universities of this country that indicates we must progress rapidly "ourselves, 
or see this prestige ^vane rapidly and dan­
• gerously in the years ahead. 
The third challenge is endowment. Ade­

quate endowment of course permits the ex­
ercise of the functions referred to under the 
above classifications. It allows better facili­
ties, better salary scales, better scholarship 
and fellowship incentives. Notre Dame oc­
cupies a high place in the academic respect 
of America. Its endowment of under 
$5,000,000 is one of the lowest of any major 
institution. 
And so we have, in the organization of the 

University of Notre Dame Foundation, 
sought to create the army that must pro­
vide the front lines in this battle for God, 
for country, and for Notre Dame. 
We are not trying to build our Rome in 

a day. We have recognized the youth and 
the economic and wartime upheavals that 
have affected our most fruitful generations 
of alumni. 
There are short cuts to meeting our chal­lenges. The increasing annual giving from increasing numbers of alumni and friends can offset greatly the lack of a large capital ' endowment. 
From the stimulus of this interest and 

understanding there will be bound to come 
the occasional alumnus or friend who can 
make a capital gift to building or endow­
ment that will represent a major battle in 
our long war. 
We are erecting a pyramid of support. Our alumni and our friends are the broad base. We know that with the loyalty and the enthusiasm that has been shown, we will build to the topmost point. 
Without this pyramid of support, from the modest annual gifts as a base to the high pinnacle of ultimate endowment and building, Notre Dame, like all private edu­cation, may find itself losing a battle that neither church nor state can afford to lose. 
Enrollment Sfill Open In ND Summer Session 
The University has facilities to accommo­date additional qualified students who wish to enroll for the eight weeks summer session commencing June 21, 1948. 
Undergraduates, who are not beginning freshmen, may enroll for courses offered in the College of Arts and Letters, College of Science, College of Engineering, College of Law, and College of Commerce. 
Graduate students may enroll for courses offered in the Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Classics, Economics, Education, English, History, Mathematics, Modem Languages, Music, Philosophy, Physics, Po­litical Science, Sociology, and by the several Departments of Engineering. 
Residence halls on the campus will pro­vide accommodations for Religious and lay­men who enroll for the summer session. Married students living with their families must arrange for residence accommodations in South Bend. 
For applications for admission. Summer Bulletins and further information regarding enrollment for the summer session, under­graduate students may communicate with the Registrar, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana, and graduate stu­dents may .communicate directly with the Dean of the Graduate School, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. 

CinciHnofi Leader Named Lay Trustee 
Charles F. Williams, of Cincinnati, presir dent of the Western and Southern Life In­surance Co., has been named a member of the Associate Board of Lay'Trustees of the University. 
Mr. Williams, one of Cincinnati's most successful business leaders, replaces the late John J. O'Brien, South Bend manufacturer, who died in 1946, as a member of the Board. 
CHJULES F. WILLIAMS 

An 1897 graduate of the University of Cincinnati, Mr. Williams in 1935 assisted Most Rev. John T. McNicholas, archbishop of Cincinnati, in the founding of the Insti­tuti Divi Thomae and gave the fund nec­essary for it to start operations. Purposes of this Institute include the investigation of fundamental problems in various fields of science and the establishment and coopera­tive assistance of research laboratories at affiliated colleges, hospitals and other insti­tutions. Under the leadership of Mr. Wil­liams, who also is President of the Cancer Research Foundation at the University of Cincinnati, the Institute has developed a special section for cancer research projects. 
Mr. Williams was elected vice-president and general counsel of the Western and Southern Life Insurance Co. in 1910, at which time he and his brother, W. J. Wil­liams, who founded the Company, acquired control of the entire capital stock of the corporation. He was elected president of the company in 1931, succeeding his brother who died in 1930. 
Mr. Williams has been twice iionored by the Vatican. In 1934 he was made'Knight Conmiander of the Order of St. Gregory by Pope Pius XI, and in 1941 he was appointed as Master Knight of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta. 
facing a new era — an era in which higher education for all will become the accepted doctrine. As a result, it is e-xtremely un­likely that the pressures will be removed in the foreseeable future. College expansion 
zvill become an increasingly important issue. 
"Many significant questions come to mind. How large shall the colleges be? At what point is expansion undesirable? Shall the universities be dix-ided into smaller cam­puses? Will it be more advisable to add new colleges than to expand the existing ones? It is obWous that a point is ultimately reached beyond which the expansion of an institution is undesirable. At the same time, unless the colleges are expanded, or new ones added, millions of -•American youths TOU be denied the privilege of a higher education. 
Federal Aid 

"Sooner or later the American colleges and universities will have to face the issue of federal aid. They receive it now in va­rious forms — through the G.I. tuition fees, the money for veterans' housing, and the Army and Navy training programs. But the next step, it would appear, is that of aid to the colleges and universities. 
"This aid might be given in t\vo forms: either through scholarship grants to the students or as subsidies to the colleges them­selves. Probably a combination of both \vill be needed. It has been suggested — and the proposal has met with widespread ap­proval among prominent educational lead­ers— that the federal govenmient establish a systcln of national scholarships. • » * * 
"The scholarship program would not be a radical departure from existing educa­tional policies. Through the G.I. bill the government has already set the pattern. Ac­tually, the money provided to veterans is scholarship money. I believe that the gov­ernment should establish a minimum of 500,000 scholarships and fellowships for the youth of America. When our college popu­lation reaches 3,000,000, that would mean that the government would be helping one out of every six students to earn a college education. At present it is helping one out of two under the G.I. bill. It would also mean, if properly administered, that this country would place a premium upon abil­itj- and worth. 
" * • • On the average, the tuition rates have gone up 20 per cent in five years. Still further rates are contemplated. However, the point has already been reached where the tuition is too high for the average stu­dent. In some instances tuition has jumped from $350 to $500 and then to $650. 
"Then again, raising tuition wU destroy the very purpose of our higher institutions —-that of providing an education for all who are worthy and qualified, regardless of their station in life. The colleges them­selves point to four possible solutions: they can raise tuition further; they can seek 
more annual gifts; they can hold financial campaigns; or they can work for federal 
scholarships. Actually, no one of these meth­ods will be sufficient; the colleges will have 
to work out a program that will cover all 
four. 
"The rising costs of services and ma­terials affect colleges and universities as they affect ever)- other kind of business enter­prise. We cannot pass on these costs by continually raising tuition without putting 
college education beyond the reach of mid­dle-class families. The large fortunes that 
sustained colleges have been depleted by 
taxation or divided by inheritance. New 
donors on the grand scale are hard to locate and to interest. The outlook ahead for the small college is not good, but America would not be America without these col­leges. New friends must be found." 
" * * * The consensus among educators was that the enrollment would level off at about 3,000,000. • • * (Now about 1% million — our figures). * • » Acting on that assumption, many are laying long-range plans. Although several sigh for the "good old days," on the whole the college presidents are convinced that the new era ahead wU be one of scholarship rather than 
extracurricular emphasis. They recogrtize that the goldfish-swallowing, rah-rah spirit has gone, to be replaced by one more serious, 
more alert, more in tune with the issues 
that the world faces today." 
Catholic Education 

And in an article in the May Catholic Digest, Adam Drayer, for some time a vet­eran's counselor at Harvard University, sums up a powerful argument for Catholic education in these words: 
" * * * Picture your son, if you will, carefully nurtured in the Catholic faith, leaving his family unit to undertake higher learning at a secular college. Up to this point his life has been well ordered. • * • 
"Then he arrives at X college. Whether he elects to take an arts or a science course, he will find required courses in some branch of philosophy. He will discover immediately that his professors believe in a system of philosophy which is incompatible with his Catholic principles. * • • Now many ques­tions come to his mind, but you are not there to answer them. 
"Unfamiliar with scholastic philosophy and unable to reconcile his faith with a ma­terialistic philosophy, your son's structure of faith will start to crumble. * * * He will begin to doubt the things you told him. 
"Conflict mounts upon conflict, doubt upon doubt. If it is not lost, his faith at least Avill be weakened. Day after day he will sit in class, hearing statements which are contrary to his faith. He wishes to pro­test but he cannot, for he is poorly equipped to support his statements on a philosoph­ical basis. * * * 
"// you are planning to send your son to college and wish to foster and strengthen his faith at the same time, the only way to do it is to send him to a Catholic college. If you send him elsewhere you risk the loss of his faith and expose him to psycho­logical conflicts which may affect his entire personality and future life." 
All of the above programs are long-range, in keeping with the purposes of the Foun­dation in furthering the permanent progress of Notre Dame. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

All of them depend upon the full mobili­zation of the interest, the knowledge and the special talents of Notre Dame men. iM 
• * • • 

Meeting •— 


THE FACULTY 

Elsewhere in this issue will be found a story on the reunion of Notre Dame lawyers, to be held on June 4, 5 and 6. This is only the latest activity of the widely known educator and orator. Dr. Clarence £. Man-ion, dean of the College of Law at Notre Dame. A former president of the Alumni Association, he has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1924 and dean of the College of Law since 1941. 
DEAN CLABENCE E. MANION 

In addition to his outstanding reputation in the legal profession. Dean Manion has also achieved fame as an author in educa­tional fields. His latest text. Lessons in Liberty, has been adopted widely for class use in high schools throughout the United States. He also wrote Americanism, which will be published soon. 
A native of Henderson, Ky., Dr. Manion received a bachelor of arts degree from St. Mary's College in Kentucky in 1915. In *»; 1916 he received a Master of Arts degree from the Catholic University of America, and a Master of Philosophy degree from the same institution in 1917. He took his J.D. degree from Notre Dame in 1922, after mili­tary service in World War I. 
During his legal career. Dean Manion has been a strong advocate of observance of the Natural Law and Natural Rights in his profession. He is a founder of the Natural Law Institute at Notre Dame inaugurated last December through a gift of the Notre Dame Club of New York. This Institute, to be held annually, is designed to empha­size through nationally-known educators, jurists, la%v>'ers, and other authorities the Natural Law as the basis of democracy. 
In addition to his work at Notre Dame, Dean Manion has engaged in the practice of law as a member of the firm of Doran, Manion and Dempsey in South Bend. 
Dr. Manion was married in 1936 to the former Virginia O'Brien of South Bend. j| , They are the parents of five children. " ' 
Mr. Horry G, Hogan, Chairman 
The University of Notre Dame Foundation 
Notre Dome, Indiana 
Dear Horry: 

It is almost o year ago, at Commencement time, that we actually emborked upon the work of the Foundation. 
As we prepare for the 1948 Commencement I'd like to tell you that the work accomplished in the interim by the alumni and by the Foundation organization under your leadership has been even greater and more effective than we dreamed last June that it would be. 
The loyalty and the enthusiasm are not surprising to us, who know Notre Dame alumni and friends too well for that. But the national acceptance of a serious, hard-working demand upon time and effort, with a realization of the permanent nature of the Foundation, by such a large number of outstanding Notre Dame men and friends of Notre Dome has been encouraging indeed. 
We know that the Foundation workers have been handicapped by their very enthusiasm^ because their work has carried them ahead, in the early months, of the information, the literature, the instructions, which we were preparing for them. 
And we are happy to know that the Foundation Office is catching up with this tempo, and correlating the invaluable monoower of our volunteer field force. 
We were pleased with the 1948 Manual, which told the very creditoble story of 1947 to Governors, to the City Chairmen and their Committees, and to alumni everywhere. It would have token far more manpower, and for more expense, to begin to point this picture in any other way. The need for not only confr/bu/ors but for salesmen has mode this first year's presentation to our alumni and friends one of more detail and more expense than will be necessary after the Foundation is thoroughly established in its methods and its personnel. Creation of the Getter OS well as the GiVer has intensified the simpler problem of Cultivating Our Own Garden. 
The reward will be in the multiplication of results, and the old proverb that many hands make lighter work. There is a chollenge that con include all of us. The acceptance of that challenge is one of the most encouraging factors in this schoot year. 
Sincerely yours, 
ROBERT H. SWEENEY. C.S.C. 
Executive Assistant to the President 

theory by ample illustrations from his plays 
N.D, Band Presents 

and poems. The volume is addressed to Concerts in Nine Cities the wide audience of teachers, philologists, and Shakespearean scholars. The nationally-famous Notre Dame band 
-Another book that Sister Miriam Joseph, appeared in concert in nine Eastern cities who teaches English at St. Mary's, has writ­on an annual Easter tour from March 29 to 

ten is The Trivium in College Composition
April 6. The band was conducted by H. 

and Reading, which is closely related to the Lee Hope. 
other book. A third edition was published The Eastern trip, which included 16 con­in March. It combines a full course in logic certs in the nine cities, opened on March 29 with freshman rhetoric, composition and lit­when the Notre Dame band played in the erature, and has been used at many colleges Scottish Rite Cathedral at New Castle, Pa. for 13 years. An abridged form, entitled 
A Other cities in which the band appeared in­Everyday Logic, is used as a textbook in cludes Connellsville, Pa., March 30; Shen­logic classes. andoah, Pa., March 31; Mt. Carmel, Pa., April 1; Wilkes-Barre, Pa., April 2; Scran­ton, Pa., April 3; Bridgeport, Conn., April fr, John Cavanaugh4; New Haven, Conn., April 5; and Median, 
N. Y., April 6. In Panel Discussion 
Fifty-seven topflight musicians comprised The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, the Notre Dame concert band on the tour. president, participated in a panel discussion The band traveled in two chartered busses on "The Broad Objectives of Engineering specially-equipped with radio-telephone for Education" at the annual meeting of the the trip. Indiana-Illinois Section of the American So­
ciety of Engineering Educators on May 7 and 8 in Chicago. 
Publish New Book by 

Participating with Father Cavanaugh in Sisfer Miriam Joseph the discussion at the meeting, which was In Shakespeare's Use of the Arts of Lan­held at the Illinois Institute of Technology, guage, published by Columbia University were Dr. Frederick L. Hovde, President of Press, Sister Miriam Joseph, c.s.c, M.A. '27, Purdue University; Dr. Ronald B. Prentice, presents for the first time the theory of com­President of Rose Polytechnic Institute; and 
position current in Renaissance England Dr. Henry T. Heald, President of the Illinois which enters into the form and texture of Institute of Technology. 
A all Shakespeare's plays. 
The panel was broadcast over radio sta­The book shows Shakespeare's use of the tion WIND in Chicago. 

Voncfenberg Nominoted Af Moek Conventjoff 
The "nomination" of Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg for president of the United States highlighted a three-day mock Re­publican political convention held April 26 to 28 by Notre Dame students. 
The mock convention, sponsored by the Department of Political Science at Notre Dame, was conducted to give practical po­litical experience to the Notre Dame stu­dents. Similar conventions are normally hdd at Notre Dame in each election year, but since the one scheduled for 1944 was can* celled due to the war, the last such con­vention was a Democratic meet staged in 1940. 
Senator Vandenberg, as represented at the convention by Daniel Norander, Notre Dame student from Detroit, Mich., was "nomi­nated" unanimously on the sixth ballot. Gov­ernor Earl Warren, of California, in the person of James Cassidy, of Peoria, 111., was nominated by the Notre Dame students for vice-president on the second ballot. 
The mock convention at Notre Dame, which followed exactly the procedures of regular political conventions, was under the faculty supervision of Dr. Paul C. Bartholo­mew, Professor of Political Science at Notre Dame. Students in the Department of Political Science, however, were in charge of staging the rally. 
Francis J. Keenan, graduate student from Dover, N. H., served as the Chairman of the Republican National Committee, Leonard 
C. Boykin, of Camden, S. C , delivered the keynote address at the opening session, and John R. O'Connor, of Indianapolis, Ind., was named the jiermanent chairman of the convention. 
Afhiefies 
(Continued from Page 7) 

with an 18 to 9 victory over the University of Kentucky in the season opener and forced a veteran-studded Purdue team to the limit before dropping a 14% to 12% decision on the Boilermaker course. Only by virtue of the two lowest scores ever carded on the Purdue fairways were the Boilermakers able to edge past the Irish. 
The early matches pointed to George Stuhr, two-time monogram winner for the Irish, as the most consistent golfer on the squad, but Stuhr is followed closely by Jack Fitzpatrick, Capt. Dick Seidel, Tom Dore, Jack Quinn and Tom Conlcy, all capable of turning in sparkling exhibitions on the greens. 
During the remainder of the 1948 card, the Irish golfers must face the following opponents: 
&lay 3—^Wisconsin at Madison May 6—Detroit at Detroit May 8—Minnrsoa at Notre Dame Kfay 10—^Northwestern at Notre Dame May 15—Louisville at Notre Dame May 17—Michigaii at Notre Dame May 22—Ind. Intercollegiate Tournament at NJ>. May 24—Michigan Sute at East Lansing 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
» »

ALUMNI CLUBS 
Akron 
The dub met at Seniler's Tavern Hotel for dinner on UKD Night. FATHER LOUIS J. THORNTON, C.S.C., Registrar, was our speaker. Fifty-three mem­bers were present. 
After the meeting a good number of the men retired to JOE KRAKER's and listened to the pro­gram from Philadelphia. 
The officers elected for the coming year are: PAUL A. BERTSCH, president; WILLLAM AHERN, \-ice president; CLAUDE H. HORNING, secretary-; ROBERT KOLB, treasurer. 
The club has been getting a great deal of pubh'city 

on its establishment of a $2,000 scholarship at the 
University. Prominent Akron civic and business lead­
ers have been appointed to the committee which 
will select the scholarship student, who will receive 
$500 annually for four vears. The club's scholarship 
committee includes JOHN KELLY, WILLIAM 
BURKHARDT, MURRAY I>OWERS. and THOM­
AS MARKEY. 
PAUL A. BERTSCH 

Boston 
"Sports Night" was the theme of our February* meeting held on the 26th at the Har\-ard Club. In addition to the "Highlighu of the N.D. 1947 Foot­ball Season" for which we owe appreciation to tlie Alumni Office, President MOHRAX arranged for another sports film which gave us a \.ell rounded program. He invited comment on the subjVct of Cann ConJercnccs. 
Chairman JOHN HERBERT supervised the big event, a drawing for the benefit of the Campus Club. Tlie grand prize, an all-expense trip for two to the Notre Dame-New York University basketball game, was appropriately won by one of our mcst Io>-al alumni, DAN QUINLAN. The table model radio prize drawn for early returns went to one of the fathers, ED HICKEY. 
AL BIRNUNGHAM had a big job when he step­ped in at the last minute as chairman of UND Xight. A dinner was held at the University Club for members, friends and their ladies. Father McNamara one of our honored guests, head of the Boston Cath­olic Boj's Guidance Centre, invited Notre Dame men to participate in work at the Centre for the rehabili­tation of young bo\-s. Through the courtesy of WNAC an cnjo>-able part of the evening was spent hearing the program from Philadelphia so clearly. 
The headline event was an address by Congress­man John F. Kennedy. Mr. Kennedy gave an en­lightening talk outlining the problems connected with our foreign affairs. It was encouraging to note that we had an increase of approximately 50 per cent over last year's event. Serving on the committee uith Al were JANtES McLAUGHLIN, TOM ATKINSON, and JOHN VAUGH.AN. 
JACK NYE DUFFEY 

Blue Water District 
The year of 1947 was merely an organizational year for this club. Our aim was chiefly to find out how many prospective members were in this area. 
We held a membership meeting the first Wednes­day of evcr>* month and the majority of the meet­ings were well attended. We attended Mass and communion in a body ever>' First Friday. 
The club's achievement award was presented to Jerr>- Mugan, basketball player of St. Stephen High School in Port Huron. The presentation was made by President BILL WILSON at a dinner in the Wilson home. Jerrj*'s team reached the nnals in the Michigan State Regional Class C. tournament. 
The following officers were elected for 1948: president, WILLIAM L. WILSON; vice president, FRANK COAHNS; secretary-treasurer, WILLIAM 
L. WEIL. 
Plans for 1948 are as follows: Presentation of an .Annual Achievement Aw*ard to the athletic team at St. Stephen's High School establishing the best rec­ord for the year; a monthly get-together of the members and their wives for the summer months; communion every First Friday; extensive campaign for the Notre Dame Foupndation. 
BILL WILSON 

Buffalo 
BuHnlo alumni, their families and friends cele­brated UND Night at the Wanakah Country Club Thursday evening, April 8. The celebration of the event u-as postponed to that date in order that the speakers, REV. ROBERT H. SWEENEY C.S.C, and HARRY HOGAN, could be present. Father Su-ceney's message as to the University's need for alumni cooperation u-as supplemented by Mr. Ho* gan's explanation of the functioning of the Notre Dame Foundation. Guest of honor u-as BISHOP JOHN F. O'HARA. Co-chairmen of the affair were DANIEL SHEEDY and DONALD J.ACOBI, with ALFRED RYAN as toastniaster. 
The club held its annual elections Jan. 30. The four members elected to the Board of Directors are: RICHARD A. BATT, GEORGE FERRICK, JAMES SEYMOUR, and DANIEL SHEEDY. 
The Board of Directors then met in private ses­sion and elected the following officers: president, JOH.N HOELSCHER; vice president, DANIEL SHEEDY; treasurer, GEORGE FERRICK; secre­tary, RICHARD A. BATT. 
The club honored the basketball team w-ith a lun­cheon prior to its game with Canisius College on Feb. 28. More than 100 attended the luncheon, which was under the chairmanship of CLEM CROWE. CHARLIE HANNAH was the toastmaster, and the honored guests were A. T. O'NEILL and Coach MOOSE KRAUSE. The oldest alumnus at­tending u-as PETE WOZNIAK, '02. 
A $4,000 scholarship, which will cover tuition, room, laundr>-, books and laboratory fees, will be awarded to a high school graduate of the Buffalo area in July. Bishop JOHN F. O'HARA is the honorary chairman of the scholarship committee. 
R. A. BATT 

Calumet District 
FATHER THO.MAS A. LAHEY, C.S.C, repre­sented the University at the club's observance of UND Night. Officers chosen at the dinner are DAN LYNCH, Hammond, president (re-elected); ROC­CO SCHIRALLI, Gary, vice president; JAMES 
BALTIMOBE CLUB UJI.D. NIGHT CELEBRATION—The club and guests met ot the Emerson Hotel Seated at head table, from left to right: Mrs. James Murray; Bill Hartman. retiring secretary: Mrs. Boy O. Scholz. FranUyn Hochreiter, toastmaster and vice president- the Bev. David H. Fosselman, C.S.C.. '37, Catholic chaplain of National Training SchooL Washington. D. C. (main speak­er); Dr. Roy O. Scholz. president- Mrs. Lewis J. O'Shea, wife of the retiring president; James Murray, secretary; Mrs. Hartman. 
The newly elected officers, who were inducted at the celebration were: Dr. Roy O. Scholz. president; Franklyn C. Hochreiter. vice president; William L. lacobs, treasurer, and lames H. Murray, secretary. lacobs had to leave town the day before the diimer because of the death of his mother. 
GLENN, Whiting, secretary; and HUGH E. CAR­OLL, Hammond, treasurer. An executive committee with representatives from the various cities was abo elected. 
Capital District 
Close to 100 alumni, wives, and guests obser\*cd UND Night at a banquet held at Duncan^s Inn, near Albany. 
Co-chainnen of the event were JOHN HOL­LAND, '41, of Schenectady, and J. J. DRISLANE, '38, of Albany. The Schnectady and Capital District clubs were co-sponsors, and the good time had by all indicated that more cooperative functions will be held by the two clubs in the future. 
The main speaker was a Fordham man. Rev. Lawrence Atherton, S.J., former moderator of ath­letics at Fordham and presently director of a Jesuit Retreat House near Albany. FATHER McC.-\F­FERTY, C.S.C.. BROTHER ERIC, C.S.C., and DAN CUNHA also spoke. 
Central Ohio 
Thirty-two members of the club obser\ed UND Night at a combination party and business meeting held at the Virginia Hotel in Columbus. The in­spiring addresses made by FATHER CAVANAUGH, FRANK LEAHY and DEAN MANION, which were broadcast from Philadelphia, added a great deal to the success of the gathering. It made us all proud to be a part of Notre Dame. 
The following new ofHcers were installed for the coming twelve months: DR. THOMAS M. HUGHES, '38, president; CHARLES O. WEIL­BACHER, '41, vice president; DONALD R. HAV­ERICK, '35, sccreIar^•; LEO J. KLETZLY, '31, 
It is our intention to schedule several different forms of activities during the remainder of the year, each of which will be designed to contribute in some way to the successful functioning of the Cen­tral Ohio Club. 
Visiting alumni in Columbus are invited to at­
tend the weekly luncheon of the Club which is 
held cver>' Monday noon at the University Club. 
DONALD R. HAVERICK 
Chicago 
A capacity house attended the club's UND Night celebration in the grand ballroom of the Drake Hotel. 
JAMES R. CRONIN, president of the club, pre­sented Prof. JAMES A. REYNIERS, '30, the in­augural Faculty Award. Prof. Rcyniers, director of the Laboratories of Bacteriolog>' (LOBUND), ex­pressed his appreciation to the club for conferring the honor on htm and explained that only the full cooperation of the University made possible the extensive research carried on by his staff. 
ALFRED C. STEPHAN, Jr.. '31, chairman of UND Night, introduced Dr. Mortimer J. Adler, professor of the philosophy of law at Chicago Uni­versity and a noted writer and humanist. In his address, "What Every College Graduate Knows," Prof. Adler pointed out that since college education was merely a scratching of the surface, educational growth should never cease. He felt that w*ith educa­tion, we should become aware that world govern­ment is the only solution to present day problems. 
The ever popular Rev. EUGENE BURKE, C.S.C., representing the University, told many interesting anecdotes on Notre Dame's latest addition, "Vet­ville." 
The Honorable Martin H. Kennelly, mayor of Chicago, told of the need for an ever-increasing number of college graduates who are instructed both how to live as well as how to make a living. He explained that an increase of well rounded, educated men would make government administrat­ing both simpler and more efHctent. 
Rev. JAMES MOSCOW, '34, gave the invocation and final blessing, and THOMAS H. BEACOM, Jr., '20, was the toastmaster. Entertainment was provided by the octette from the.Notre Dame Glee Club and Jack Owens, singer and song writer. 

John Lujack was the principal speaker ot the banquet the Decatur Club held for St Theresa High School on March 18. Shown left to right are Steve Gratiker, '42. Bernard Marty, '37, Bernard liTergood. '25, Diane LiTergood, Fohn Lujack. '48, Mrs. Marty, Mrs. Livergood. Mrs. S. Rapier. Sy Rapier, '33, Hm McGrath, '41. and Mrs. McGraih. 
Much of the credit for the success of the func­tion, one of the finest put on by the club, goes to the following for the painstaking work they put in: ANTON STEPHAN, '04, JAMES R. CRONIN, '35, Chairman ALFRED C. STEPHAN, Jr., '31, THOMAS H. BEACOM, Jr., '20, FRED BECK­LENBERG, '33, FR.ANK O'DOWD, '43, THOM­AS S. McCABE, '22, and JOHN L.ACEV, '38. 
On the Bowman Musical Milkwagon, broadcast over WMAQ at 12:15 p. m. on .April 5, part of the program was devoted to Notre Dame and the obser\'ance of UND Night. 
ROBERT LONERG.AN 
Cenfral New York 
Memorable among our events of the past few months was a meeting of our club on March 13. This one was held at the Haberle Brewing Company in S>Tacuse. and featured the 1947 N.D. football movies. JACK TERRY did a fine job of planning and putting on this event. 
The big night was UND Night. A large crowd gathered at the University Club to hear the pro­gram from Philadelphia. Dinner w*a5 at 7. p. m., followed by installation of new officers. 
LEO KELLEY gave us the substance of the Foundation aims for 1948. Previous to the dinner, Leo was inter\-iewed on local station WNDR and gave a fine account of UND Night, the University, and what it stands for. 
New officers installed were: president. JOHN E. Mc.\ULIFFE; vice president, H. JUSTIN COR­COR/\N; vice president and chaplain, REV. JOHN 
G. HARRISON; secretar,--treasurer, D.\NIEL A. KELLEY. 
Directors include: H. JUSTIN CORCORAN, FREDERICK T. DeLANY, MARK E. MOONEY, JOHN H. TERRY, REV. JOSEPH B. TOOMEY. 
The City Chairman of the Foundation is LEO D. KELLEY. 
The highlight of the evening was an address by our principal speaker, REV. ROBERT G. SULLIVAN, '40, assistant chancellor of the Catholic Diocese of S>Tacuse. Father Bob gave a very inspiring and in­formative talk on "The Heritage That is Ours" as Catholics and Notre Dame men. 
The broadcast from Phibdelphia was carried on WNDR, the local Mutual outlet. 
ED MOORE will head the committee in charge of our next event, an outdoor day and buffet sup­per at the Ca\alry Club. 
BOB COX, of SoU-ay Process Co., has finally found the house he wants in Albany and wrill soon be packing Betty and the three kids eastward. JACK 

O'NEILL Is back in town as quality control engi­neer with Easy Washer. DANaEL A. KELLEY 
Cinciimofi 
ROBERT J. LEONARD was elected president of the club at the celebration of UND Night, held in the Hyde Park Golf and Country Club. 
• Other officers chosen were: JOHN C, COTTING­HAM, vice president; ROBERT McCAFFERTY, treasurer; and WILLIAM B. MIDDENDORF, Jr., secretary. The directors are: RICH.ARD W. SCAL­LON, BERTR.AM SCHLOEMER and J. WALTER NIENABER, retiring president. 
To serve on the Scholarship Fund Committee were named ALBERT D. CASTELLINI, JOSEPH 
S. MORRISSEY and J. WALTER NIENABER. Two non-Notre Dame men will be asked to complete this committee at a later date. 
Greetings from the University were extended by REV. JOHN P. LYNCH, C.S.C., Assistant Director of Vocations at Notre Dame. 
.Announcement was made of the appointment by the University of Charles F. Williams, prominent Cincinnattan, as a member of the Assodate Board of Lay Trustees. 
Th following telegram was sent to REV. JOHN 

J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., president, who was in Philadelphia attending the t^iscrvance there: "No­tre Dame men in Greater Cincinnati and their friends join you in honoring the memory of JOHN 
H. NEESON, founder of Universal Notre Dame Night. We pledge our continued support in all efforts to extend the name and fame of our Al­ma Mater. Kindest regards, (signed) J. WALTER NIENABER, President, University of Notre Dame Alumni Assodation of Greater Cincinnati.'* 
The 65 members and guests who attended the celebration here heard a broadcast of the'>Philadel­phia program over the Mutual Broadcasting System and carried into the Cindnnati area by WCPO. 
Sports writers and radio commentators who at­tended the club's football smoker on Feb. 15 at the Hotel Alms, spoke highly of the affair. inJGH BURNS was the speaker, and films of the Army and Southern Cal games were shown. 
BILL MIDDENDORF 

CfeveloiKf 
The annual Knute Rockne Memorial Mass was held Palm Sunday at St. John's CathedraL Break­fast foUowred at the HoUenden Hotel with approxi­malely 100 Notre Dame men; inducting fathers and sons, in attendance. Co-chairmen J.ACK REIDY and 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 
DAN DUrFY, the latter acting as toastmaster, pre­sented a program of speakers, chief of whom was JIM CROWLEY, of Four Horsemen fame, who re­called for eveo'onc's cnjo\Tnent his memorable asso­ciations with the Rock. 
BILL GRIFFEY was chairman of the Notre Dame Spring Dance Easter Monday at the Lake Shore Hotel. Through Bill's efforts and those of his com­mi:tce men, JOE MULLIGAN, TOM C. BYRNES. BILL MULLIGAN. GEORGE GORDON and JACK COLEMAN, the members of the club en­joyed an e\-ening of dancing, with a turnout of over 180 couples. 
April 30 \%-as the date for our Bingo Party at the East Side Turners, E. 55:h St. CHUCK ROHR was chairman with TOM F. BYRNE, TOM MULLI­GAN, BOB STOCK, TOM C. BYRNE, SARG R.A­LEIGH, and JACK COLLINS acting as committee men. A tcle\Tsion set was given away. 
The new club membership roster is now in the hands of club members. It is a complete listing of all Notre Dame alumni of Cleveland and Wdnity, together with student listings. CLAYTON LEROUX is indeed due all our praise and congratulations for an extraordinarily difficult job ver>' well done. 
FRANK McGRODER, Jr. 
Connecficuf Valley 
The club observed UND Night with a smorgas­bord supper at the Highland Hotel in Springfield, Mass. A good number of alumni turned out for the affair, which w*as strictly informal, and provided an opportunity for the renewal of many old friend­ships and the inevitable "bull sessions." In the latter part of the evening, the members gathered round a radio to hear the ceremonies from Philadel­phia. BILL HURLEY was in charge of arrange­ments. 
The club sponsored a most successful entertainment on Feb. 1 for the benefit of the Notre Dame Foun­dation. We presented the No:rc Dame Football Highlights of '47 on the screen, together with the moxies of the Notre Dame-Southern Cal game. As­sistant, Coach JOE McARDLE was on hand to give the commentary. An audience of about 2,500 sat in on the show. A great deal of credit is due Chair­man MATTY MESKILL, '29, and his stafT for putting this one over for the Foundation. 

The club took advantage recently of a chance to help two fine mission priests, both Notre Dame men. FATHER PAT QUINLAN, of the Home Missioncrs of America, a former priest of the diocese of Hart­ford who studied at Notri Dame prior to entering the secular priesthood, received a check from us to help his work in the mission fields of Sauth Caro­lina. We also sent a contribution to aid FATHER EDWLN C. BAUER, C.S.C.. with his work among the Negroes in Texas. 
DO.\ FOSKETT 

Dallas 
At the UXD Night celebration the following offi­cers were elected: ED HAGGAR, president; DAN FOLEY, first vice president; JIM CROW, second vice president; SAM WING, Jr., third vice presi­dent; JOHN MORAN, scc^:tar^•, and GEORGE BECKER, treasurer. 
New club members who were welcomed at the obserx-ance arc TASS W.ATERSON, HUGH FAR­RELL, JOHN SIERRA, and .MIKE CARR. 
Des Moines 
Our regular first Friday noon luncheon was post­poned this month in favor of UND Night, which was very successful. Our smoker got under way at 
8:30 at the Roosevelt Grill. The broadcast was car­ried by local radio station KCBC, through the ar­rangements of GEORGE PrLANZ, III. Needless to say, the broadcast was enjoyed very much and the club would like to take this opportunity to express its appreciation to FATHER CWANAUGH, PRO­FESSOR MANION and FRANK LEAHY for their very fine and forthright addresses. We indeed were proud. 
After the broadcast we *vere scr\ed a buffet lunch and were entertained by a male quartet. 
JOE ZUENDEL 

Detroit 
UND Night was celebrated in Detroit with a large meeting and buffet supper at the Harmonie Club. A former Detroiter, REV. JOHN J. BURKE, C.S.C., business manager of the University, was the 
speaker of the evening and made a big hit. 
Don Wattrick, popular Detroit sportscastcr, acted Of^ as toastmaster and introduced an element of fun '-­to the occasion. •'. 
The names of the new ofHcers were announced. BERT B.AUR is the new president; TOM MORAN, first vice president; DICK FOLEY, second vice president; MAL KNAUS, was re-elected sccretar>-; and the new treasurer is TOM SHEEHAN. 
JOE BACH, outgoing president, ended his year in office with a swan-song to the dub and Detroit. Joe's moving to Boston to act as line coach of the Boston Yanks, pro football team. 
As second speaker of the evening, Mai Knaus, substituting for HARRY KELLY, who was ill, re­viewed for the club the aims and purposes of the Notre Dame Foundation. He announced that in De­troit the Foundation drive would be identified with the club and that the local committee would con­sist of the club's directors. 
Plaques were presented to the club's presidents of 
the past two years, Joe Bach, and GEORGE MOR­
RIS, as well as to RAY KELLY, president in 1921, 
who was absent in the ser\-ice when the other past 
presidents of the club were similarly honored in 
1W3. 
ED RONEY 

Forf Wayne 
Election of ofliceis for the club was held at a ^ k special meeting on March 15 at Hotel Indiana. 
BERNARD T. KEARNS, who did an excellent job as president during the past year, was re-elected to that office. HARRY HUMBRECHT is the new lice-president, while ROBERT CENTLIVRE and TOM O'REILLY were elected as treasurer and sec­retary, respectively. 
A movement was made and carried at the meeting whereby a Board of Directors for the club be elected. The board consists of four men who were elected by the members of the club at the March 15 meet­ing. They are: EDWARD J. DISSER, ROBERT K. GORDON, BER.NARD M. NIEZER, and PAUL SAGSTETTER. 
The club observed UND Night Mh a dinner and dance at the Hotel Van Orman. DK. LrtWRtNCE 
H. BALDINGER, Dean of t.ic Colleg= of S\*ient.e at the University, was the guest speaker. Approxi­mately 90 people (members and their wi/es or girl friends) attended. A radio was provided so that those present could listen to the Mutual Network broadcast of the Universal Notre Di:ne Night pro­gram emanating from Philadelphia. Danring from 10 p. m. until midnight completed th; e\ening. 
RICHARD SCHEELE was chairman of the ccm­mittee and was assisted by FRANK PITTMAN MAURICE BOLAND, MARTIN T0R30RG, JE-A ROME O'DOWD, and TOM SUELZER. ^ 
The club paid its respects to CARL L. CENT­LIVRE, a member who died in February'. 
Forty members attended the pre-Lenten party on Feb. 5. A purely social meeting, dinner was 5er\-ed at 6:30, followed by card playing and "shooting the breeze." 
TOM O'REILLY 

Ft, Lauderdale, Fla, 
FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., presi­dent,and J. ARTHUR HALEY, director of public relations, were the guests of honor at the club din­ner held at the home of ROBERT H. GORE, presi­dent of the club, on Feb. 12. 
Club members who attended included WALTER 
D. CRANE, '35, FRED J. STEWART, '13, BOB GORE, '31, BOB ERKINS, '47, JOHN SULLI­VAN. '31, KENNETH O'MEARA, '39, FREDER­ICK P. GORE, '43 TED GORE, '50, and lO-SEPH A. GORE, ex '42. 
At a dinner meeting held at the Governor's Cub Hotel in early February, R. H. GORE v.as elected president; BOB ERKINS, vice president; and KEN­NETH O'MEARA, secretary-treasurer. It was de­cided to hold a contest with a prize of two tickets 
The relative merits of the 1947 Notre Dame and Michigan football squads must have been thoroughly discussed at the meeting the Memphis Club held with the Michigan alumni of Memphis. The N. D.-Southem Cal and the Rose Bowl films were shown at the meeting. Pictured above are Charlie Callahan, assistant director of publicity at N.D.; T. Hawley Topping, Michigan Alumni Secretary; Harry WeUord. president oi the Michigan Memphis alumni- and Jerry Foley, president of the Memphis 
N.D. Club. 

Father Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., told central Pennsylvanians the details ol the Foundation program at a dinner meeting of the Harrisburg Club. Left to right are shown E. R. Eckenrode. Jr., secretary-treasurer; Thomas Carfagno; Father Sweeney: loseph B. FarreU: Edward C. Smith; and Robert J. Elaiber, who comprise the Central 
Pennsylvania Foundation Committee. 
to a football game at Notre Dame next lall, \%hlch would include transportation and holi:l at'iommo­dations. 
KENNETH O'MEARA 
Fox River Valley 
The dub held its annual UND Night meeting at St. Andrew's Countr>' Club. Thirty-five members were present. 
The evening was taken up with organization bus­iness and the following new officers were in charge: BILL CHAWGO, president; VERN KXOX, vice president; ROL SCHLAGER, treasurer; and JOHN McNERNEY, secretary. These men arc to hold office until the end of the year. 
The constitution of the organization was discus­sed. President Chawgo appointed the standing com­mittees as required by the constitution and they took steps to organize for the coming year. 
It was determined that because of the small mem­
bership, about forty out of a potential of about a 
hundred, and the large area we cover, the Events 
Committee would have full authority to arrange for 
future meetings. In general, plans were made for 
the annual Golf Day and a winter dance. As soon as 
these dates are set definitely we shall extend an in­
vitation to all Notre Dame men to attend. 
JOHN L. McNERNEY 
Grand Rapids & Wesfern Michigan 
Most Rev. Francis J. Haas, bishop of Grand Rap­ids, was the guest of honor at the UND Night observance in the Morton House. Following dinner, REV. MICHAEL FOR/\N, C.S.C, delivered the principal address. ARNOLD R. LEVANDOSKI was toastmaster. 
JOSEPH F. DEED, retiring president, introduced the new officers. President-elect ROBERT N. ALT spoke. 
Georgia 
Georgia Notre Dame men from Savannah, Au* gusta, Rome, Columbus, and Atlanta attended the first state-wide meeting of the club on ivfarch 8 in the Mayfair Club, Atlanta. At the rrgauizational meeting, which was attended by MICHALE F. WIEDL, Georgia Foundation chairman, and A. R. ABRAMS, Atlanta city chairman, the following offi­cers were elected: WILLIAM H. SCHRODER, pres-dent; Lt. Cmdr. JOHN B. DE WILDE, USNR, vice president; K. C. LATTIMER, treasurer; and LARRY BENEDICT, secretary. 
The club observed UND Night with a dinner at the Piedmont Driving Club. A recording of the Philadelphia proceedings was brfiadcast at 11:15 p. 

m. over Station WATL, the Atlanta outlet of the Mutual Broadcasting S>'stem. 
LAWRENCE D. BENEDICT 

Hamilfong O. 
The club observed UND Night with dinner, fol­lowed by an outline of the purpose of the Founda­tion program by ^L•\RC A. FIEHRER, local chair­man of the program. 
After a brief business meeting conducted by ILVR* RY F. WALSH, president, football movies were shown and the broadcast from Philadelphia u-as listened to. DON C. CISLE presented the secre­tar>''s report. 
Harrisburg 
The dub met at the residence of ROBERT M. JOHNSTON to hear Father ROBERT SWEENEY, C.S.C, who talked on the Foundation program. The club pledged its cooperation in the movement. In-duded on the program was the showing of the film of the campus. The dub is considering running a special train to the Navy-Notre Dame game next fall. 
A Catholic college alumni dinner is being spon­sored by the club, -which will be held in the Penn Harris Hotel on May 18. Alumni of all Catholic colleges residing in the district will be invited. JOHN MCNEIL L is chairman of the committee in charge of the event. 
The newly elected officers of the dub are E. R. 
ECKENRODE, Jr., president: WILLIAM A. GOR­

MAN, vice president; and WILLIAM J. MOORE, 
sccretary-treasiirer. 
EDWARD ECKENRODE, JR. 

Houston 
.About 30 members attended the UND Night ban­quet in the Captain's Room of the Ship Ahoy. The Foundation was discussed, and the broadcast from Philadelphia was tuned in. Everyone enjoyed the talks by FATHER CAVANAUGH, FRANK LEAHY. and DEAN MANION. 
New officers elected that night are THOMAS STANDISH, president; CHARLES 'ATCHISON vice president; and LEIGHTON YOUNG, secre­tary-treasurer. 

Indianapolis 
On April 5, 147 members and guests of the club observed UND Night at the Knights of Columbus with the annual dinner and election of officers. 

General Chairman WILLIAM H. KRIEG (fid aa admiraUe job. espedaUr in his introdactiim of JOE BOLAND, of South Bend, a directorof the Ahmui Association, as our prindpal speaker. Joe outfined the history of Universal .Notre Dame ^^ht ffwd traced the tramition that has taken place on the campus unce that first UND night 25 years ^o . He also stressed the need of all of the alunmi in JwirfcTig the Foundation to the utmost. 
The Rt. Rev. Henry F. Dugan. Chancellar of the Archdiocese, emphasizied the need for Catholic laea —^Notre I^une men—to assume thdr places as dvic and religious leaders in thdr today more than ever before. Msgr. Dugan spoke on behalf of the Archbishop, who was unable to attend. 
Other speakers included letiring president PAT FISHER, AL FEENEY, mayor of Indianapolis, Rev. GEORGE DOLAN, C.S.C., chaplain of the Ca­thedral High School, and the new club president, 
G. DON SULLIVAN. 
At 9:30 we all gathered around the radios to listen to the UND night broadcast from Philadelphia. At various times diuing the evening MIKE REDDING­TON, JOHN O'CONNOR and JIM ROCAP, eadi gai-e 15-nunute broadcasts over WFBM, WISH and WIRE, respectively. 
Those elected for 1H8.49 were G. DON SULU­VAN, president; JOHN C.\REY, vice president: GEORGE T. O'CONNOR, secretary and JOHN R. WELCH, treasurer. PATRICK J. FISHER and FRED L. MAHAFFEY were each elected for one year to the Board of IKrectois, succeding AL M>­HONEY and JOHN HARRINGTON. The retiring club officers are PAT nSHER, JOE BECK, JIM ROCAP, and NICK CONNOR. 
At the meeting held at the K. of C. on Mard 30, the full prt)gram was devoted to the Scholaxship Fund committee and its campaign. It was resolved' that a $2,000 scholarship to the University would be awarded to a senior boy from any of the Marioa County (Indianapolis) high schools. ' 
The club photos appearing on I^ges 20-21 were taken by TED ABEL, '30, of the W. H. Bass Photo Co. 
NICK CONNOR 

Konsos aty 
On March 12 the club held a business meeting and election of officers at the Catholic Coramunity Center. The following were elected: president, JOE VAN DYKE; vice president, TOM HIGGINS; sec­retary, BERNARD FINUCANE; treasurer, BEN OAKES. 
The new officers were installed at the UN D Night observance. Approximately sixty wr e in at-­tendance at the dinner held at the Hotel FhUHps and enjoyed the program from Philaddpiua aad the fihn, "Highlights of the 1947 Football Ssascn." 
M. J. VAN DYKE 

Kemtucky 
UND Night was observed by the club in its tra­ditional way—a dinner dance at Colonial Gardens. The evening was highlighted by the installation of the new officers for the forthcoming year, and by some thoroughly enjoyable community sii^ng of Notre Dame and Irish songs. 
OSCAR VON ALLMAN. chairman of the election committee, announced the results of the balloting. ­CHARLES G. MORROW was elected president; JAMES CARRICO and CARL RATTERMAN first vice president and second vice president, respectively; secretary, LARRY AUBREY; and JOSEPH BUCK­LER, treasurer. 
The retiring officers, headed by WILLIAM WOERNER. left behind an outstanding record of achievement in Notre Dame Club of Kentucky an­nals, and were given full credit for their efforts hf the members and their friends. 
Plans have been completed for the Second Annual Club Retreat at the Trappist Abbey at Gethsemam. Ky. The Retreat is to begin Friday, May 21. and end Sunday evemi^. May 23. The first retreat, in 1947. was attended by 33 members and friends. 
M. J. VAN DYKE 

VAYNE—L. to R., Bernard T, Keorns. president; Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Deon of MILWAUKEE—Charles O'Neill. Neil Gleason. INDIANAPOUS—W. H. Krieg, choirr ; Jo iiie College of Science; Tom O'Reilly, secretory; Horry Humbrechi, vice president. and Tom Dixon. 
speaker; Rev. George Dolon, C.S. Nicl 
UlVIVERSAm IN PlCl 
'nNGELES—Seoted, I. to r., Jerry Colono, Rev. Mortin Dempsey, Jim Phelan, Regis Toomey, Leo I Word ond Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C. Standing, Gene Colhoun, John Miller, Vernon I Riclcord, Hon. Joe Scott, Ed Cunningham, and George Trofton. 
fOUNGSTOWN—At center, front row, is Pother Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C; at his right ore CINCINNATI—Seated, Robert Leonard, Robert McCofferty, Willlom 
II Ciorence C. Sheehan, president, ond Judge John J. Buckley, toostmoster. 
Middendorf, Jr. Standing, Bertrom Schloemer, Andrew Barton, ond Richord Scollon. 
|v YORK—John M. Balfe, Pronk C. Walker, Raymond Hilliord, John A. Hoyt, pother Robert Sweeney, C.S.C, Mr, McCorthy, and John B. Konoley. THE RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHWESTERN MASSCHUSEHS CLUB 
-.; Joe Bolond, principal INDIANAPOLIS—Jim Recap, treasurer; Joe Beck, vice president; Nick Connor, sec*/* Pot Fisher, president; and Rt. Rev. Henry F. Dugon. 
,\N. D. NIGHT nURES 
CENTRAL NEW YORK—Rev. John Harrison, John Terry, Daniel Kelley, John McAuliffe, and Rev. Robert Sullivan. 
WASHINGTON—Leo Mulqucen, Larry Moore, J. Harvey Daly, Pat Gorman and Welter Short. 
PITTSBURGH—Left to right. Father VincenI Brennan, Dr. Leo O'Donneli, Father Ci Sheedy, C.S.C., John McMahon, and Vincent J. Burke. j 
THE TULSA CLUB BUFFET SUPPER 
THE HAMILTON CLUB IN OHIO 
THE NAUGATUCK VALLEY CLUB — Mr. and Mrs. Harold Hanlo.i; Joseph Robinson^ president, and Mrs. Robinson; Norbert L. Henebry, general chairman, and tATi.\ Henebry; James Scigliano, secretary-treasurer, and Mrs. Scigliano. 
LoCrosse, Wis. 
The club had an almost 100 per cent turnout at the UND Night celebration, which capped an active year for the organization. The activities in­cluded picnics, a Communion Breakfast, and a Christmas Ball. 
The new club officers arc ARTHUR FUNK, hon­

orary president; FREDERICK FUNK, president; 
Dr. JOHN SIMONES, "ce president; AUGUST 
GRA&IS, seceretar^-treasurer. 
The club voted to donate $50 to the Foundation. 
JOHN A. ELLIOTT 

Los Angeles 
More tlian 200 atlcndcd the UXD Night obscn­ance in Rfidger Young Auditorium, at which Rev. PHILIP S. MOORE, C.S.C., dean of the graduate school, WBS the principal speaker. 
JIM PHELAN, new head coach of the Los An­geles Dons, GEORGE TRAFTON, assistant coach of the Los Angeles Rams, Rev. Mairtin Dempscy of Dublin, Hon. JOSEPH SCOTT, TOM HEARN, California Foundation go\"ernor, and LEO WARD also spoke. VERNON RICKARD, newly-elected president of the club, acted as master of ceremonies. 
Entertainment was provided by Jerr>' Colona, who delivered his inimitable style of comedy, and Regis Toomey, well known actor. 
The new officers of the club are VERNON RICK­ARD, president; JOHN MILLER, first \-ice presi­dent; ED CUNNINGHAM, second vice president; and GENE CALHOUN, secretary and treasurer. 
LOU BERARDI, Judge JOHN CXRBERRY, JOHN MILLER, and J.\MES McC.\BE are the Dew members added to the I>oard composed also of TOM ASHE, ED ASHE, LEO WARD, GENE a\LHOUN , ED CUNNHNGHAM, PAT SHEA, JOE O'NEILL, and VERNON RICKARD. 
Father Moore pointed out that the unalterable conflict between Communism and western democ­racy has reached the time of crisis. "Behind it lies two philosophies of the nature of man and of the universe in which he lives and the relation of man to his universe and his fellow man," he said. 
VERNON RICKARD 

Memphis 
UnixTTsal Notre Dame Night was postponed by the Memphis Club until April 16th. A dinner meet­ing v,-3s held in the Tennessee Club, which was at­tended by approximately 25 members. Movies of the Notre Dame-Iowa 1947 football game were shown during the evening. The new president, PHIL CANALE, had charge of the program. Talks were given by FRANK HOWLAND, City Chair­man of the Foundation in Memphis, anJ JOHN N. CACKLEY, Jr., representing the campus olSre of the Foundation. 
Miehigan City, Indiana 
Members of the club gathered to obsnve UND Night at a dinner in Michigan City. FATHER JOHN J. LANE, C.S.C., assistant director of studies, u-as the principal speaker-
Milwaukee 
The dub celebrated UND Night at the Milwaukee Athletic Club, with 75 members attending. Fellow­ing the dinner the new ofBcers were sworn in. They are: DON GOTTSCHALK, president; NEAL GLEASON, Wee president; STEVE WANTA, sec­retary; and MARK PFALLER, treasurer. 
The retiring \-icc president, CFIARLES 0*NEILL. executive secretary of the St. Vincent de Paul So­ciety, u-as unanimously chosen as the club's out­standing member. A scroll u-as presented to him by the retiring president, TOM DIXON. Chariie was in charge of the dinner last September at whidi the 1947 I<aetare Medal was presented to William G. Bruce, and has otherwise been outstanding both in club affairs and in religious and d\^c affairs. 
Speakers at the dinner were JOHN PAUL CUL­LEN, head of the Veterans Administration Jn Ml­waukee, and the REV. ROBERT SHEEHAN, C.S.C.. head of the Biology Department at Notre Dame. Mories of the Northwestern game were shown, and the broadcast from Philadelphia was listened to< 
STEPHEN WANTA 

Mohawk Valley 
The dub had its election of officers at a meeting held in Utica, N. Y. There were approximately 25 members present at which time the football pic­tures depicting the highlights of the 1947 season were shown. 
The new officers are as follows: Dr. FRANCIS 
A. MARINO, '37, president; F. DONALD FUL­LEM. '33, vice president; BARTHOLOMEW T. O'SHEA, '31, treasurer; EDWARD J. SWEENEY, '30, secretary. 
The foHoH-ing were elected to a board to aid the officers in fostering the dub activities: JAMES GRIFFIN, FRANK CONNORS, F. EARL HACK­ETT, ANTHONY J. GIRUZZI, Jr., ROBERT FITZGERALD, VINCENT FLETCHER, FRANK DONALTY. 
Meetings are to be held on the third Thursday of each month and the May meeting will be held at the home of A. CHARLES HITZELBERGER, Jr., 1535 Oneida St., UUca. 
The dub will hold meetings in Ilion and in Rome, N. Y., altematdy in order to have memben in the respective localities present and to increase the active membership of the organization. 
EDWARD J. SWEENEY 

 Naagatuck Valley 
WILLIAM J. ANDRES, 'IS, was presented as the ^ Notre Dame man of the year by the dub at the UND Night observance at the Elton Hotd. Plant ei^ioeer at the Autotyrc Co.j Oakville, Conn., Bill is also area Foundation chairman. 
Rev. STANLEY PERRY, C.S.C., and Rev. JOHN SULLIVAN, dub chaplain, spoke at the dinner. 
OflScers of the dub were re-dected. They are: D. FRANK MURNANE. president; JOSEPH ROB­INSON, vice president; and JAMES SCIGLIANO, secretary-treasurer. 
NORBERT F. HENEBRY was chairman of the annual Easter dance held at the Elton in Water­bury. Serving on the committee with him were BILL ANDRES and THONL\S SCALLY. 
New York City 
UND Night was celebrated at the famous oak­panelled dining room of Jacob Rupperts. .An over­flow crowd of 340 attended in spite of every effort to hold the size of the crowd to 275. It was a stag affair, confined as far as possible to alumni. 
Father ROBERT SWEENEY, C.S.C., was the only speaker, though FRANK C. WALKER, Bugs Baer and one or two others made very brief re­marks. Music was furnished by FRANK WALTHER, '25, and bis orchestra. The entertainment, which was confined to a. one hour program, featured the AIills Brothers—famous colored singers, Walter Scheff, who is featured in the album of Notre Dame songs which ^ TOM TRUMAN, '41, and MIKE GRACE, '41, are % putting on the market, and Anally by television of the proceedings in Philaddphia. DAN HALPIN, '31, arranged for the installation of three large tele­vision receivers. Drinks were on the house. 
The second annttal IVesident's Night on Afay 5 at the Biltmore Hotd was the kick-off of the Foun­dation cirive in New York City. A capadty crowd made up of alumni, their wives, parents of students, and friends joined in the open forum on Notre Dame matters, with questions being asked from the floor. Following the forum the guests enjoyed dandng to the music of FRANK WALTHER's orchestra. 
The Hon. FRANK C. WALKER was chairman of the meeting. Among those attending were Bish­op JOHN F. O'HARA and HARRY HOGAN. 
ED BECKMAN, chairman, announced the re­vival of the annual retreat which was set aside durii^ the war. It will take place the weekends of June IS and June 25 at Afount Kfanresa, Staten Island, N, Y. 
In connection with this, JOHN A. HOYT, Jr., president of the dub, received a letter from BISH­OP O'HARA, who said that "the lay retreat move­ment is one of the great sources of strength in American Catholic life, and it should have an es­pecial appeal to Notre Dame men. When they make the retreat together, they recapture some of the ^_ beautiful spiritual atmosphere of the campus." ^m 
COLMAN O'SHAUGHNESSY 

Ohio Valley 
More than 150 members and guests of the dub gathered at a dinner in Bellaire, O., to observe UN D Night and to hear Rt. Rev. John J. Swint, of Wheeh'ng, W. Va., appeal for a higher tj-pe of Catholic leadership. 
Representatives from 11 valley communities were present. FRANK WALLACE, national alumni vice president, was the master of ceremonies, while the program was presented by Dr. W. E. ACKER­MANN, Jr., president of the dub. Others who spoke induded Rt. Rev. JOHN KING MUSSIO, bishop of Steubenville, O., and Afcgr. W. C. Hayes of Bellaire. 
TOM HOWLEY, of WheeUng, was chosen by the dub as the person in the area who best represents the spiiit of Notre Dame. 
Oklahoma City 
HASKELL ASKEW, Oklahoma City Foundation chainnan and president of the club, explained the workii^ and purposes of the Foundation at a meet­ing beld in the Oklahoma dub 01 March II. ^ ^ After the dinner the "Football Highlights of 1947" ^ %iras shown. 
The head table o! the Schenectady-Capital District UND IHght obsenratioii. L^ft to right ore J. J. Huethen John F. Hurley, president of the Schenectady Club; BOT. Lowrence Atherton, SJ., main speaker; John A. Holland, general chainnan; and John CompbelL former president of the Capitol District Club. 
The other officers of the uub a.e ED SIORY, Elk City, vice president, and JOHN B. MARTIN, Oklahoma City, secretary-treasiucr. 
Panama 
Two days before the marriage of LORENZO RO­MAGOSA and Miss Ida Rebeca Lassen on Jan. 31, the club held a moonlight picnic on the finca of JOSEPH HARRINGTON in their honor. 
The members and guests included Dr. and Mrs. GUILLERMO PATERSON, Mr. and Mrs. JO­SEPH HARRINGTON, Captain and Mrs. THOM­AS P. CODY, Mr. and Mrs. LEO J. KARRIZA, Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM B. ALLEN and family, JAMES WHITE, Miss Elena Cooban Fabrega, and JOSE CARDENAS. 
Peoria 
About •too attended the UND Night celebration at the Hotel Pere Marquette, at which ZIGGY CZAR­OBSKI spoke. Following dinner the Football High­lights of '47 were shown and otiier entertainment provided. 
The new officers installed are DON SMITH, pres­ident; GENE SLEVIN, vice president; TOM CON­NOR, secretary; and LOU CRYSTAL, treasurer. 
Phoenix, Ariz, 
The club held its annual election of officers on April 5. The following are the new office holdets: ROBERT KENDALL, '31, president; TOM O'MAL­LEY, '40, vice president; WILLIAM JOYCE, '40, treasurer; JOHN DEHNER, '33, secretary. 
Elected to the board of director were: JOHN JOYCE, '40; JOHN FAHRENDORF, '34; Dr. C. 
F. RISSER, '40. j 
Go%-ernor WILLIAM MALONEY and President ROBERT KENDALL appointed iSTEVE BIELLI and JOHN O'MALLEY to the Foundation Fund Comimttee. 
JOHN W. DEHNER 

Rhode Island and 
S. E, Massachusetts 
UND Night was obser\-ed in an atmosphere as similar to Notre Dame as could be found ouuide of the campus itself, that is. Our Lady of Holy Cross Seminary at North Easton, Mass. Members of the club and a limited number of friends of Notre Dame were the welcomed guests of Rev. GEORGE BENA­GLI.'\, C.S.C., superior of the Seminary. 
The events opened with a reception sponsored by 

• 
the retiring president, JOHN J. McLAUGHUN. At a short business meeting officers and directors for the coming year were elected. The newly installed officers are J. CLEMENT GRIMES, e-x '29, president; RUSSEL L. HUNT, '39, vice president; ANDREW 
J. McMAHON, '35, secretary; JOHN A. McIN-TYRE, '40, treasurer. Rev. RUSSELL J. McVlN-NEY, '35, was re-elected chaplain. The Board ot Directors includes ROBERT POWERS, '28, LEO McALOON, ex '30, THOMAS COLLINS, '28, EUGENE J. MOREAU, '32, Lieut.-Go\-crnor JOHN 
S. McKIERNAN, '34, and JOHN J. McLAUGH-LIN, '34. 
Immediately after the business meeting members and friends were ser\"ed a delicious dinner. The speaking program was informal with thoughts go­ing to former days at Notre Dame. PAUL HOEFFLER, '25, was toastmaster and Father Bena­glia gave the principal address. Lieut.-Gov. John McKiernan installed the incoming officers and board of directors, and the speaking program closed with short remarks by retiring President McLaughlin, and acceptance of the "reins" by President-elect Clem Grimes. 
The evening ended with all members and friends attending solemn Benediction of the Blessed Sacra­ment in the chapel. The seminary choir chanted the hymns. 
^ JOHN McGUIRE, '42, headed the commitctee  <hat made the arrangements for the evening. ANDREW J. McMAHON 
Officers elected by St Lonia Club'a board el diracteia ara. lalt to right, Vincant 
J. FeUig, treasuren Fred S. McNeil], praaidant; and John I. GriiCn. Jt^ viea praaidanL 
Not shown is Walter A. George, aacratory. 
San Diego 
This dub-in-the-making joined in the nationwrede observance of UND Night with a program in EI Cortez Hotel. 
KYOR presented a program at seven o'clock on the traflitions and development of Notre Dame with FRANK LAUERMAN, WINFIELD DAY, ALBERT STEWART, and EMMETT McCABE participatii«. At 10 o'clock KGB carried the Mutual broadcast from Philadelphia. 
EMMETT McCABE 

St, Joseph Valley 
On March 7 the club honored the memory of Knute Rockne with a special Mass held in the Dillon Hall Chapel on the campus, followed by a splendid breakfast in the Notre Dame Dimng HaD. The Afass was said by Rev. THOMAS BRENNAN, C.S.C., and those members present thoroughly en­joyed an address by CECIL BIRDER, bead of the Department of Speech at Notre Dame, as %veU as the remarks of the Rev. VINCENT MOONEY, 
C.S.G. Following the breakfast program, 85 club members proceeded to the graves of KNUTE ROCKNE, JOHN NICHOLSON, and GEORGE KEOGAN, where memorial wreaths were placed. Arrangements for the Memorial were under the direction of LARRY DANBOAL 
On April 1 new directors were elected as fol­low: RUSSELL ARNDT, '25, LAWRENCE DAN­BO.M, '37, ROBERT HOLMES, '30, and GEORGE STRATIGOS, '43. There followed an election of officers for the coming season. Those elected were as folloivs: honorary president, ALBERT McGANN; president, JEROME CROWLEY; vice president, FRANCIS MESSICK; secretary JOHN PLOUFF; treasurer. GEORGE STRATIGOS; chaplain, REV. JOSEPH D. BARRY, C.S.C., 
The officers and directors expressed their ^ncere appreciation to retiring president JOHN McIN-TYRE, under whose able leadership great piogTcsi had been made. 
The club celebrated UND Night with a special dinner for members and their wives on the ampas. Seventy couples attended the affair and thonm^Ur enjoyed the excellent cuisine. During the course ot the dinner, guests were entertained by an ordiestra under the d^tio n of IVofessor CHARLES BION­DO from the University's Department of Mnnc Hie highlights of the evenii^f were addresies by HAR­OLD S. VANCE, diaoman of the Board of A s Studebakcr Ccnpoiation, and Rev. JOHN H. MUR­PHY, C^.C., vice prendent. 
On May 15 the diA will - sponsor the axmtitl Vazsity-OId Timers football game. FRANK MILES is chairman. 
On June 22, 1948, the members will hold thdr annual Golf and Dinner Partr at the Soath Bend Country Club under the chairmanship <rf ED KRAUSE. 
F. M. MESSICK 

Sf.Uwis 
In St. Louis %ire had a big get-together in honor of Universal Notre Dame Night. As before, we coofr­bined this event with our Monte Carlo Futy- TOM McDERMOTT did the nujor share of the graond work at the party. Our Mutual station, KWK, ze­broadcast the program from Philadelphia at 11:30 since no earlier time could be cleared; this worked out very well. 
Our new dub officers for 1948 are: FRED Mc-NEILL, president; JACK GRIFFIN, vice pceiident; VINCE FEHUG, treasiirer; WALTER GEORGE, secretary* We also elected the foUowii^ men to the Board of Directors: Four Year Term, Dr. BERT COUGHLIN, BOB HELLRUNG, AL RAVARDiO. FRED WEBER; Three Year Term: JACK GRIF­FIN, JIM O'NEAL, Dr. MATT WEIS, DUTCH WRAPE; Two Year Term: ROLAND DAMES, VINCENT FEHLIG, JOE McGLYNN, FRED Hc-NEIIX; One Year Term: LOU FEHUG, PAUL FEHLIG, WALTER GEORGE, CHARLES GIOHI. 
FRED WEBER, retiring president, reaDy deierm a vote of appredation for the wonderful job he turned in the past year. 
Our scholarship cofmnittee is in high gear and this fall should see a deserving student enter Notre Dame. ROLAND DAMES is the sdiolaiship duiw man. 
On Sunday, March 22. we bdd our first Fannly Gommimioa Breakfast with an attendance of tboat 100 people. FATHER SWEENEY, CJS.C., made a special trip to celebfate the BCass; as nsinl he de­livered an excellent talk after bnak&st, adda( far­ther to oar bdief that he makes a traly fine 19 ­reseatatrve;firiom our University. 
Dr. BERT COUGHLIN, dty chnrmaa, mtUaf in coajunctian with JOE UcGLYNN, state goicr­nor, has the Foundation project %TC1I under way. 
jnifyNEAL 
S. W. Connecticut 
The club enjoyed a verv* successful UND Xight. The dinner w-as held at the Stratfield Hotel in Bridgeport with about 42 members present. The toastmaster was Judge JOHN T. CULLIXAX, Stale Foundation Governor, and the guest of honor JAMES L. McGOVERX, honoran-- president of the club and assistant editor of the city's largest ncu-spapcr. 
Mr. McGovern spoke on the late >nLES O'BRIEN and his twin brother, JOHN, both of whom were members of the Board of Lay Trustees. He related how the two settled in South Bend and started the small industry- that was to develop into the South Bend Lathe Works. 
Judge JIM MURPHY also spoke. Following the 
•dinner and the scheduled activities, the broadcast from Philadelphia was tuned in. 
The new officers installed at the dinner are: FRANK J. ^rcGEE, Bridgeport, president; JOHN 
L. KILBRIDE, Stratford, \-ice president; WIL­LIAM MULRENNAN, secretar>-; and FRANK J. KOWALSKI, Fairfield, treasurer. 
FRANK J. McGEE 
Toledo 
The club held its UND Night obser\-ance at the Hillcrest with Rev. JAMES E. NORTON, C.S.t_.., professor of Economics at the University, the prin­
•cipal speaker. He spoke on labor-management re­lations and on his experiences in the field at Gen­eral Motors last summer. 
The assembled guests listened to the broadca^i from Philadelphia, and after the formal program they held an old-fashioned Notre Dame get-together. 
The club will sponsor an open house for the baseball team after its game with Toledo University In Toledo on June 4. 
Notre Dame Backfield Coach BILL EARLEY spoke to more than 300 out-of-season football enthu­:siasts in Toledo's Commodore Perr>- hotel, Feb. 2. The affair^ sjKinsored by the club, included football 
highlight mo^es of the 1946 and 1947 seasons. 
Tri-Cifies 
JAMES E. MCCARTHY, dean of the College of 0}mmerce, was the principal speaker at the club's observance of UND Night at the Blackhawk Hotel in Rock Ishind, III. 
ALBERT ERSKINE, president of the club, intro­-duced the toastmaster, HENRY C. WURZER. Other speakers included Rev. John B. McEnir>' and Re\'. Thomas J. Jordan. 
Henr>* Wuracr was cliairman of the UND Xight coimnittee and u-as assisted by EDMUND J. MEA­GHER, WILLUM F. BERNBROCK, VANCE N. TJHLMEYER, RALPH J. CORYN, ALBERT ER­SKINE, JEROME C. ARNOLD, and JOHN Mc-DONALD. 
On Feb. 1 the club sponsored a smoker at which ZIGGY CZAROBSKI spoke, and, as usual, he had ever>body rolling in the aisles. STEVE MILLER was the master of ceremonies. Other speakers in­cluded George Magerkurth. retired National League umpire; MOON MULLINS, St. Ambrose coach; John O'Donnell, and Jim .-Vmechc. 
BILL BERNBROCK 
Triple Cities 
Rev. JOSEPH B. TOOMEY, '26, president of the National Conference of Catholic Charities, \\'as hon­ored as about 250 persons attended the UND Night celebration at the IBM Homestead in Binghamton, 
N. Y., on April 7. Most Rev. JOHN F. O'HARA, the principal speaker, urged alumni "in keeping with the moral training you received at Notre Dame" to combat the spread of "militant atheism which is attempting to destroy the world," JAMES H. HO­G.*\N, president of the club, was toastmaster. 
Among those present at the dela\-ed UND Night observance were H.ARRY G. HOGAN, president of the Alumni Association; F.\THER ROBERT SWEENEY, C.S.C.; Charles F. Johnson, Jr., vitx president of Endicott-Johnson Corp.; and Judge Daniel J. McAvoy. Dr. J. WORDEN KANE \%-as the general chairman. 

Tri-Sfofe 
The club celebrated UND Xight at the Vendome Hotel in E\-ansviIle, Ind. Six Indiana and Illinois cities were represented at the alTair. 
The followins club officers were elected: PAUL (PETE) THOLE, president; BOB HENNEBERGER, «ce president; RUDY STURM, vice president; R.\Y ZILIAK, treasurer; and STEVE ESNER, sec-
STEVE ESNER 

Tulsa 
Members of the club gathered at the Mayo Ho­tel for a buffet supper in obscr\-ance of UND Night. A rebroadcast of the national radio program was enjoyed and a business meeting, highlighted by election of officers, was held. 
The following officers were elected for the com* ing yrar: CARL J. SENGER, '37, president; JOHN 
L. O'HERN, '37, vice president; and G. K. DONO­V.\N, '40, secrctarj' and treasurer. The outgoing officcre were W. E. LEROUX, '33, JOSEPH Mc-NULTY, '37, and FRANK J. REIDY, '37. 
The first two monthly club luncheons held ia Fd>­ruary and March were well attended and it was decided, by majority vote, to ha\'c luncheons regular­ly at monthly inter\'als. Plans for a summer picnic have been formulated and the possibility- of a spring dance has been discussed. 
We regret to announce the death of two of our most faithful members, EDG.\R MOR.\N and JO­SEPH LANTRY. 

GEORGE FEELEY, '37, was a recent visitor to ^ h our city. ^^ 
• FR.\NK J. REIDY 

Virginia  
UND Night was obser\ed by Virginia alumni with a meeting at Benedictine High School, Richmond, Va.  
Program for the meeting consisted of a talk by JOHN N. CACKLEY, Jr., field representative of the Notre Dame Foundation, plus movies of the 1947 Xotrc Dame-Nebraska football game.  
The meetingto reach home  closed in time to tune in on  for the  those attending  national N. D.  
program over the Mutual Network at 10:30 p. m. This program wxis carried in Richmond over radio station WLEE.  
R.  A.  SHEPPARD  
Wabash Valley  
The new officers elected at the Feb. 19 meeting are WILLIAM J. SCHRADER, president; KEN­NETH J. LAWS, vice president; and JOSEPH E. INCE, secrctar^'-trcasurer. The club has drafted and adopted a new constitution.  
.At the club's UND Night observ-ance F.ATHER ARCHIBALD M. McDOWELL, C.S.C., professor of religion, was the principal speaker.  
EMMETT  FERGUSON  ^  
Washington, D. C.  
Notre Dame men and their friends gathered in the Carlton Room of the Carlton Hotel in Washington to celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night. About 200 w^re present. JOHN V. HINKEL, director of public information at Notre Dame, was the prin­cipal speaker. J. HARVEY DALY was chairman of the evening. The program started with a telev^ion show of the highlights of the national meeting in Philadelphia.  
DAN CULHANE, retiring president, introduced the officers and members of the Board of Governors  
for the coming year. They are: THOMAS L. Mc-KEVITT, '31, president; HAROLD V. BOISVERT, '40, \-ice president; THOMAS J. FLYNN, '35, sec­retary; J. HAL RODDY, '33, treasurer; Board of Governors: Dr. JAMES A. FLYNN, '94; J. R. "PAT" GORMAN, '40; DANIEL CULHANE, '23; RAYMOND E. DEELY, '36; EDWARD R. FEN­
LON, '41; WILLIAM C. KARL, '31.  | ,  
THOMAS L. McKEVITT, the new president,gave a short talk. Chairman Daly presented Dan Culbane, on behalf of the club, with a suitably in-^ scribed plaque in appreciation of his excellent ad­ministration during the past year.  \  

^ "­

A laige gathering tamed out for the Washington. D. CM Club's Conuaanion BraoUosI in memory of Kiute Roekne. 
WILLIAM C. KARL, *31 %vas also presented with an inscribed desk set for hts splendid accomplish­ment in getting out the new club directory. Door prizes were distributed. Dancing followed. 
Har\"cy Daly was assisted by a committee of LEO MULQUEEX, LARRY MOORE, PAT GORMAN and WALTER SHORT. 
FATHER R.-\XSL\G advised us that plans will soon be announced for our Annual Retreat to be held in June at Holy Cross College. 
The Annual Rockne Memorial Communion Break­fast was held on Palm Sunday, March 21, at the Washington Retreat House, home of the .Francis­can Sisters of the Atonement. 
About 150 club members and their wives and girl friends were in attendance to hear an address by Rev. JOHN J. CAVAXAUGH, C.S.C., who was the principal speaker. 
The success of the affair was due to the efforts of Chairman EDWARD E. FEXLON and his commit­tee of JOHN P. BRADDOCK, Dr. JAMES COR­CORAX and TOM O'REILLY, and also the fine spiritual guidance of our Chaplain, Father Ransing. 
THOMAS J. FLYNN 
West Virginia 
JOHN CACKLEV, Jr, former member of the club and now on the Notre Dame Foundation staff, addressed members of the club and their guests on April I on the Foundation. 
Motion pictures of the N'otre Dame-Iowa football game and the colored sound picture of the Notre Dame campus were shown. 
.ARTHUR P. HUDSON, West Virginia St^te Foundation Governor, and JOSEPH T. NEEXAN, Charleston city chairman, were in charge of the meeting. They were assisted by MAXWELL HILL, Jr., WILLIAM J. KENXEY, ALBERT H. KEES­ING, MICHAEL 0*CONXOR, and VIXCEXT J. REISHMAN. 
BILL .MINGES 
Western Pennsylvania 
UND Night was celebrated in Pittsburgh by the Western Pennsylvania Club. FATHER CHARLES SHEEDY, C.S.C.. guest from -Notre Dame, high­lighted the affair with a fine talk to his home town alumni club. Father Shecdy with many humorous in­cidents showed how the Notre Dame of today still retained the warm, friendly atmosphere that so many alumni still remember from their college da>-s at Notre Dame. 
The Notre Dame Foundation Plan was discussed and digested along with a buffet lunch and beer. 

The following officers were elected for the coming « >Tar: president, VINCENT J. BURKE; vice presi­dcnt , JOHN P. MOXTEVERDE; treasurer, GEORGE H. KIXGSLEY; secretary, ROBERT V. CHAMBERLAIX. BOB CHAMBERLAIX 
Williamsporf, Pa. 
Fifty members and guests of the club attended the first local celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night, April 5, at nearby Ashurst. 
FRANK C. HAYES, president, presided as toast­master. Rev. FRANCIS O'CONNELL, former N.D. baseball player and now a pastor in Coudcrsport, asked the invocation. The main address of the even­ing was given by ROBERT J. FLINT, Coudersport attorney, who spoke on a topic of deep religious significance. 
I. V. DAVIS, coach of the Lock Haven High School football team and a former N. D. gridder, spoke briefly about the Notre Dame athletic tradi­tions. Also present were EUGENE P. KLIER, a former basketball player now doing research at Penn State; WILLIAM R. DOWNS, of Jei^ey Shore, a former baseball player, and ANTHONY J. STOPPER and JOHN B. WILLMANN, both of this city and both former baseballers. Other N. D. men 

I present were C. C. McCARTHY, chairman of the ' dinner; FRANK J. LEAHY, and LEO C. BAR­L.\ND, all of this city; J. E. ECKEL, of Syracuse, 
Club Luncheons 
AKRON — Eraker's Old Heidelberg Restaurant—every first Tuesday 
CENTRAL OmO (Columbus) — Uni­versity Club—every Monday 
CHICAGO—Deutsch's Restaurcmt 28 
N. Dearborn SL—every third Wed­nesday 
DES MOINES—Savoy Hotel—every first Friday 
INDIANAPOLIS—Canary Cottage— every Tuesday 
MILWAUKEE — Maryland Hotel — every Thursday 
ST. LOUIS — Victorian Qub, 3719 Washington Ave.— every Monday (12:15) 
VIRGINIA (Richmond)—EwarU Cafe­teria—every second Wednesday 
Other Club Meetings 
CINCINNATI — Hotel Alms — every second Tuesday (6:30 p.m.) 
FLORIDA (AComi)-Downtown Club ^-every first Monday (5:30 p.ni.) 
NEW JERSEY-Essex House. Newark —every first Monday 
NEW YORK—Waldori-Astoria Hotel —every second Wednesday (8 pjn.) 

N. Y.; and PETER SOMERVILLE and THOMAS 
B. DORRIS, both of Muncy. JOHN B. WILLMANN 
Youngstown 
One of the largest meetings in the history of the Youngstown Notre Dame Club was held in ob­sen.-ance of UXD Night, with Rev. THEODORE HESBURGH, C.S.C, instructor in religion and chaplain of "Vetville" at Notre Dame, as the speaker. The meeting followed a steak dinner at Raver's Restaurant, and 38 were present, including men from Niles and Warren, O., and Sharon, Pa. 
Municipal Judge JOHN J. BUCKLEY, Jr., was toastmaster. 
Father Hesburgh, in praising the veterans as the finest group of men who have come to the crampus, said they had raised the scholastic standards and that the married men were doing a remarkable fob of supporting their families at the same time. 
RICHARD A. RILEY, as publicity chairman for the Foundation campaign, explained the prognun. 
All officers were re-elected: CLAREXCE T. SHEE­HAX, Jr., president; THOMAS KERRIGAN, vice president; and GEORGE KELLEY, secretary-treas­urer. Three new trustees were elected: PAUL GU­ARNIERI, of Warren, and EDWARD MADDEN and ALBERT EVANS of Sharon, DAN PINON of the Detroit Club was a guest. New members prcs­ent were HAROLD VAN HUFFEL of Warren and GRIFFIN ALLEN of Youngstown. 
Universify Today 
Continued from Page 5 

pany, Milwaukee, has issued a 1948 edition of Man's Unknown Ancestors which brings the story of prehistoric man in both the New World and the Old up to date. The Agir Press, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, has had a Portuguese translation made of Introduc­tory Sociology by Jose Artur Rios. The Ap-pleton-Century-Crofts Co., publishers of the American edition, has announced that it is cow being used in over 100 colleges. 
TRUTHS MEN LIVE BY. a book on 

basic morality by Father John A. 
O'Brien ol Notre Dame, is hailed a> "a 
complete philosophy of religion and 
life" by the distinguished Protestant 
clergyman. Dr. John Haynes Holmes oi 
New York, writing in the N. Y. TIMES. 
Published by the Marmillon Com­

pany, the book has wpn wide acelcdm 
among leaders of all religious faiths and 
has been chosen as a Book of the Month 
by the SL Thomas More Book Club for 
nationwide distatibntian. The volume, 
now in its third printing, is used in col­
leges, universities and Newman Club 
courses. It wos first published in 1946. 
Sons of N. 0. Grads 
Organize on Campus 

A committee of Notre Dame men whose fathers or grandfathers attended the Uni­versity is working on plans for a permanent organization of the more than 150 eligible men in this category on the campus. 
Plans include a survey of membership, a reception by the University administration, a meeting of fathers and sons during a football weekend in the fall, holding of re­gional or metropolitan meetings of fathers and sons during the holidays, a newsletter to fathers, and other programs to emphasize the fine tradition embodied in the presence on the campus of so many second and third generation students. 
The committee, a temporary group ap* pointed by the Alumni 0£Sce to make simply the preliminary plans, consists of George Witteried, Lyons Hall, chairman; Leo Vogc, Sorin; Ray Miller, Breen-Phillips; Eric Rey dc Castro, Dillon; George Patterson, Cav­anaugh; Harold Plamondon, Dillon, and Ed McCarthy, Off-Campus. 
Quarterly Report 
Mailed to Alumni 

The First Quarterly Progress Report for 1948 has just been mailed to all the alumni and many friends of the University. The report is similar to the list of 1947 contri­butions in the 1948 Manual and Guide. 
Special attention is directed to the Per­tinent Facts about the 6th Annual Alumni Fund for the First Quarter, 1948. Forty-two per cent of the alumni have either in­dicated that they would supplement their original gifts later in 1948, that they would secure from non-alumni friends an amotmt which, with their own gifts, would total $200, or have sent names of non-alumni friends to be added to the mailing list of likely contributors to the University. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

e alumnt 
Engagements 
Miss Eulalia Marie O'Toole and JOHN L. ZILLY, 
Miss Florence McCartliy and JAMES R. RET­TER, '45. 
Miss Patrida Hickcy and GERARD F. SARB, '48. 
Miss Allecn &Iarie Curran and WILLIAM R. FOLEY, '37. 
Miss Natalie Jay Karom and LOUIS A. WOLF, '41. 
Miss Anne Jo Mullen and DON F. HICKEY, '38. 

Miss Marsaret Sceger and ROY L. SONNE­BORN, Jr.. ex. '36. 
Miss Man' Catherine Simpson and ROBERT F. SIM.MO.NS, '35. 
Miss Betty Marie Ullers- and DON.ALD E. NU­NER, ex '43. 
Miss Mary Ellen O'Conner and JAMES F. Mc-NULTY, '42. 
Miss Betty Ann Nagy and JOHN F. ^LABEY, Jr., '48. 
Marriages 
Miss Rita Quinn and JAMES V. CUNNING­HAM, Jr., '44, Oak Park, ffl. 
Miss Marion Harriott Gooley and EDWARD J. BURKE, '44, Sjiacuse, N. Y., AprU 10. 
Miss Regis Grace Foolc and JACK CROWLEY, 

•47, Cortland, N. Y., March 29. 
Miss Anne Virsinia Plcscia and Dr. OLINDO 

W. ROSANELLI, '45, Fort Sam Houston, San An­tonio, Texas, Feb. 7. 
Miss Grace SuUiran and JOSEPH J. McGUIRE, '39, Log Chapel, Notre Dame, March 29. 
ACss Anna Bahr and LESTER C. SENTZ, '44, Milu-aukee, Wis., April 10. 
Miss Patrida McLellan and RICHARD BOR­GESS, '44. Jan. 31. 
Miss Moonyeen Marion Schillin and WILLIAM 

H. JOHNSTON, '44, New Orleans, April 10. 
Miss Avis Ann Blake and ROBERT F. iL\RTIN, '46, Washington, D. C , April 10. 
Miss Evaleen Mueller and DONALD F. Mc-GINLEY, '42, OgaUab, Nebr., Dec. 27, 1947. 
Miss Virginia McKnight and GEORGE H. HEIDEMAN, Jr., ex. '38, South Bend, April 24. 
Miss Mary Jane Buse and J.AMES CLARK, ex '43, Feb. 7. 
Miss Mary Pat Hancy and JOHN J. CAREY, '39, Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. MURPHY, '28, a daugh­ter, Julie Ann, April 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. MATTHEW H. ROTHERT, '24, a aon, Paul Christian, Feb. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. CYRIL C. THEISEN, '32, a son, John Jacob, Jan. 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. MARTI.V HUSUNG, '39, a daugh­ter, Karen Elizabeth. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN P. DO.N'.NELLY, '39, a son, Peter John, March 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. MAURICE F. LEAHY, '39, a daughter, Mar>- Elizabeth, March 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL LEAHY, '38, a daughter, their sixth child, on April 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE TOBI.N, ex. '44, a son. 
Mr. and Mrs. BER.N.ARD A. GARBER, '28, a son, April 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLI.AM L. PIEDMONT, '39, a son, Aiichael, their fifth child, Feb. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. GORDON FORESTER, '45, a daughter, Carol Ann, March 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES J. ROGERS, '40, a son, James Owen, March 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANKLYN C. HOCHREITER, '35j a daushter^ Mary Christine, April 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. BLAIR McGOWAN, '43, a son, Blair Jude. 
-Mr. and Mrs. 'MARK J. LIES, '43, a son, Donald Charles, March 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH VAN DYKE, ex. '44, a son, Michael Joseph, Jan. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. T. GORDON SALMON, '31, a son, Paul Gregory, March 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. PARIS N. COWART, ex. '34 ,a son, Paris II, March 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM C. FAY, '40, a son. 
Mr. and .Mrs. D. J. GIORGIO, '33, a son, Thomas Francis, Feb. 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. H. J. GRIFFIN, '37, a son, Thomas Patrick, March 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE A. DOYLE, '39, a son, Roger Charles, March 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT J. BRENNAN, '29, a son, Kevin. 
Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND MULLIGAN, '28, a daughter, Dorothy Jean, Jan. 7. 
Mr. and Mn. JOHN DERRICK, ex. '44, a son, Feb. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. HOBART P. SHE.\N, '31, a son, Christopher Anthony, Feb. 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES PIERONI, ex. '36, twins, Stephen and Lisa, Jan. 27, thdr second set of twins and their seventh and eighth children. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES W. MAHAR, '40, a daughter, Julia Anne, March 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM COLE, '35, a son, John Stephen, Feb. 27. 
Mr. and Mis. JOHN G. ELSE, '43, a son, John Geotse, U, March 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDMUND H. HOGAN, '32, a daughter, Joanne. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK R. DnTOE, "SI, a daughter. 
Prof, and Mrs. EDWARD A. COOMES, '31, a son, Thomas Edward, April 4. 
Deaths 
BERT G. ^£ARIS, track and basketball coach at Notre Dame from 1907 to 1912, died in St. Peters­burg, Fla., on April 17. 
After leaving Notre Dame Mr. Afaris served as athletic director of Northwestern High School in Detroit until his retirement. Prior to taking up coach­ing at Notre Dame he coached at the University of Alichigan. While there he introduced basketball, boxing, and wrestling. 
Mr. Maris sen-ed in Puerto Rico during the Spanish-American War and entered athletics follow* ing the war. 
Surviwng are his wife and two sisters. 
THOMAS BUONO, Jr., a senior from Sauger­tics, N. Y., was found dead in the Calumet River, Chicago, 11 da>'S after he disappeared from his res­idence hall at Notre Dame on April 2. 
When last seen he was going to South Bend to make room reservations for his parents for June ^ Commencement. His father, who said that a letter ^B written by his son on the day of his disappearance was very cheerful, expressed the opinion that his son was robbed and his body bter thrown into the river. 
At the inquest held In Chicago the coroner said that he apparently drowned but that the body was so badly decomposed that it was Impossible to de­tennine any evidence of \^olence. 
WALTER VINCENT BARRY, ex. *44, was kiUcd on Klarch 8 while on a routine training flight at Pensacola, Fla., Na\-al training base. 
Ensign Barry spent two >-ears at Notre Dame be­fore entering the Na\-al Academy at Annapolis in 1942. At Notre Dame he won monograms In cross­country and track, and at Annapolis was one of the finest runners to represent the Academy. At the time he was killed he had orders to report to the Academy to train for the Olympic trials. 
Commissioned In June, 1945, he served on various ships until last fall, when he started flight fraloing at Pensacola. He was married in December, 1945, and Is sui^ivcd by his wife and a daughter. 
Dr. WILBUR S. EATON, '25, died of a heart attack in Skiff Hospital, Newton, la., on March 13. 
Wilbur played end in 1923-24, and ser\ed as freshman coach at Notre Dame. He also served as head coach at St. Thomas (Minn.) College, and H-as assistant to Marchie Schwartz at Creighton. He was practicing medicine In Colfax, la. at the time of his death. 
Suniwng are his wife, five children, his mother, and a brother. 
Word has been received that WILLIAM E. PERCE, '06, of Elgin, 111., died in HInes Hospital, Chicago, on April 25. No other Information Is a\'all­able as the ALUMNUS goes to press. 
PAUL J. DONOVAN, '10, well-known Chicago attorney, died at his home In Oak Park, HI., on March 31. 
Admitted to the Illinois bar In 1911, he was an assistant state's attorney for eight years, then gen­eral counsel for the* Borden Co., Chic^o division. Since X937 he had headed his own law firm. 
Surviving arc his wife and a daughter. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathies to JOHN, '34, and FRANCIS KROEGER, *38, on the death of their father; to WILLARD WAGNER, '29, on the death of kis father and aunt; to JOHN HERBERT, '28, on the death of his mother; to RICHARD AHEARN, '43, on the death of his fath­er; to SHELLY, ex. '26, ROBERT E., '28, JOHN W., '32, and PATRICK J. BANNON, '41, on the 
Volume 26, No. 3, May-June, 1948 
death of their mother; to FATHER VICTOR F. DEAN, C.S.C., '41, on the death of his mother; to JOHN R. MURPHY, '28, on the death of his fath­er; to BERNARD and RICHARD P. DEVINE, '20, on the death of their father; to THOMAS L. 'IS, LOUIS F., '23, and EMERIT E. MOORE, '33 on the death of their mother; to WILLIAM J. BO­GAN, '41, on the death of his father; to JOSEPH 
L. MATTHEWS, ex. '21, on the death of his son; and to BROTHER EDWARD, C.S.C, '32, on the death of his father. 
Personals 
Before 1910 
Msgr. MAURICE GRIFFIN, '04, president of the Catholic Hospital Association and pastor of St. Philomena's, East Cleveland, O., is in charge of the association's annual convention to be held in Cle\*eland from June 7-10. 
JAMES A. RECORD, '(M, is managing editor of the Fort Worth, Texas, Star-Telegram. 
Father MATTEHW A. SCHUMACHER, C.S.C, '99, professor of philosophy and theology at St. Ally's College, Notre Dame, attended the consecra­tion of Bishop Reicher in Galveston, Texas, in mid-April. 
 I. Kaiaer. 324 Fouith St. 
1912 B. 
KtUburgb. Pa. 
JAY L. "BIFFY" LEE was guest speaker at the congress of the Life Underwriters' Association in Vancouver, B. C , on April 13. 
 B. Byine. UniTeraity Li­
1913 Paul 
bioTT. Notee Oame. Ind. 
HARRY J. KIRK held a clothing ceremony at his home, 1404 Otis St., N.E., Washington, D. C, on behalf of a new novice in the Carmelite Nuns. 
FATHER THOMAS J. MACKLIN is the chap­lain of St. Francis Xavier Infirmary, Charleston 16, 
S. C. 
JOHN B. HEINEiL\NN is practicing Jaw at 30 N. LaSalle St., Chicago. • 
LEO C. BARLAND is advertising director of the Sun-Gazette Co., Wiiliamsport, Pa. 
1914 
 W. Huiley. ContiQental Dli­b a Bank BIdg., S. LaSalle 
noi* 231 St. Chicogo 
J. P, McEVOY, who resides in Havana, Cuba, 

A recently visited in South Bend. He is the creator of the comic strip "Dixie Dugan." 
THEODORE J. SCHEID, a personnel director, is living at 525 S. Main St., Watervliet, Mich. 
SAMUEL C. POWELL, an attorney, has his offices at 614 Essler Bldg., Ogden, Utah. 

CARL R. VOELKERS is an engineer at Mem­orial Hospital, South Bend. 
 South 
1917 
B. J. VoU, 206 E. Tutt St, 
Bend. bid. 

CLIFF CASSIDY is a patient at the Veterans' Administration Hospital, Wood, Wis., after having been a patient at Hines Hospital, Chicago. He has been in and out of hospitals for the past four yeais with a painful leg ailment. 
CY RUDOLPH was in South Bend recently and had a Ion gtalk with BERNARD VOLL. He is with the Sun Rubber Co., Barberton, O. 
JAMES M. PHELAN, the colorful coach of St. Mary's, Calif., Gaels, has left the college coach­ing ranks to take command of the Los Angeles Dons of the All-America Conference. He signed a three-year contract at a salary described as equaling the highest paid in professional football. 
LEO J. McINERNEY is the president of Mc-Inerneys, Inc., 54 Elizabeth St., Detroit 1. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
JOHKM.M1UEH 
John M. Miller, '17, now factory man­

ager of the Los Angeles plant of the United 
States Rubber Co., has had a long and note­
worthy career in the rubber industry. 
He joined the Firestone Rubber Co. in 

1920 and in 1924 was made manager of the 
Firestone Steel Products Co., Akron, Ohio. 
In 1926 he was made manager of the Fire­
stone Footwear Co. in Hudson, Mass., a 
position he held until 1935, when he joined 
the United States Rubber Co. as manager 
of the Footwear Plant in Hudson. 
In 1936 he returned to the Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. as manager of the Mechan­ical Goods Division in Akron, and in 1938 was appointed manager of their Rubber & Latex Products Co., Fall River, Mass. 
He became factory manager of the U. S. Rubber Co. in Providence, R. I., in 1940, and in 1942 was made factory manager of the company's Scioto Ordnance Plant, Ma­rion, O. He assumed his present position in 1943. 
At Notre Dame, John was captain of the track team in 1.917 and won a football monogram in 1916 as a fullback. He joined the Army in 1917 and served two years as a first lieutenant in the infantry. He was freshman coach at Notre Dame in 1918, and played fullback for the Massilon Tigers in 1919. He recently was elected vice-presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of l.os An­geles. ' 
1918 
John A. Lemmen 901 Lake Slior* Drire, Eacanaba^ ACch. 
JACK MEAGHER has resigned as line coach at the University of Iowa. The Iowa University ath­letic director, in announcing Jack's resignation, sud that he had other definite plans which were not yet ready for announcement. 
 B. Word. 458 Spring St. 

1920 Lao 
I>o« Angela! 13. CalU. 

FATHER LEO L. WARD, C.S.C., head of the English Department at the University, suffered a severe heart attack in mid-ApriL He is now be­lieved to be past the crisis and on the way to re­covery, bat,- at'this writing, is still confined to St. Joseph Hospital, South Btmd. 
MARC VERBIEST has his own insaraQce bosdncss at 2210 PaA Ave., Detn^t. Biulifing, Detnnt 1; &Gch. A major independent insurance finn,-its ^ dlitics wrere greatly expanded last month with the chai^ to its present quarters. Marc has ^ipointed two prominent insorance men to head departments and the launching of Motor Underwriters, Inc., an a£Sliate of the original firm. 
 W. Dofir, ISOO Tai^BinQ] 

1921 Dan 
Towar. daralond. O. 

CHET GRANT has signed a two-year contract to manage the Kenosha, Wis., Comets team playing in the girls' professional ball league. 
EDGAR F. SCHOLANO, 1020 White Building, 298 Main St., Buffalo 2, is a food broker. 
• '* * BodaMar 7 N. Y. 
From KID ASHE: 
Congratulations to TOM McCABE outgoing pres­ident of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. Tom was instrumental in renving things by starting in­novations, and injecting plenty of new fire and interest into the club which is the largest of the Notre Dame alumni groups. Very well done, Tom. 
A letter received trom JERRY JONES informs us that he was confined to hospital and borne for nine weela after his automobile accident while returning to his home town of Dixon, HI., from the NJ).-Northwestem football game. When Jerry wrote, he said he was limpii^ a bit, and needed support of a cane, but expected to he completely recovered with­in a short time. 
We axe more than pleased to have news of pro­motion of JOSEPH E. DUFFEY to vice president of the Diamond Match Co. Joe is in charge of production generally and of timber and lumber oper^ ations in particular. A letter received froo Joe indicated he left N. Y. for Spokane on March 19 and hoped he would get as far west as Portland to see CHARLIE HUtSCHBUHL. 
ED BAILEY, top>flight public relations man, has left Ihe Davison Chemical Corp. of Baltimore and is ready to take on any impossible job in the field of public relations. It cannot be done means noth­ing to Ed Bailey. By the way, Ed reports all of the Baileys axe in the home area for the -first time in five years. His sons were almost an army of occnpa­tion in themselves, viz; Ed, the Marine officer, back from China; Jim, the paratrooper, back from Japan; John, from Manila; and Bill, paratrooper from Japan. 
Classmate Dean PAT MANION of the Coll ^ of Law gave an excellent radio talk on the occasion of Philadelphia's celebration of UND Night. 
Another great class from the fabulous 20's cde­brates its 25th aimiversary reunion at NJ>. this year. We salute the class of 1923, and wish for them a record turnout, splendid weather, and a fine time in general. This is the class of our beloved piesi­dent. Father JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., and other wonderful fellows like PAXTL CASTNER, JOHN MONTAGUE, DICK NASH, BILL VOSS, RED SHEA, TOM LEE, PERC WILCOX, JACK NOR­TON and many others we cannot mention for lack of space. 
JOHN L. WHALEN is the owner of the W. & 
H. Canning Co., in Warrensburg, HI. JAMES E. BURKE, 816 Caton Ave., Joliet, m., is state's at­torney of Win County. WALTER S. RAE, 1933 Macomb St, Detroit 7, is an attorney and nsm­facturer. 
RAYMOND E. GUtARDIN, 17S55 Oak Drive, Detrtnt 21, is vnth the Detroit rimer. 
JACK HUETHER, Schenectady, has been appoint­ed manager of the Transportation Division vt the General Electric Co., a big promotion. 
1923 Paul H. Castner, 1305 W. Arling­committee for advancement of highway engineering of the American Road Builders association. 
ton Ave., St. Paul, Minn. 

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
JOSEPH A. HOGAN, who practices law in South Bend, has been appointed clcrk-auditor of the St. Joseph County home. 
25-Year Reunion 
June 4-6 

As you probably will have heard before this maga­zine reaches you, the main events of the Silver An­niversary Reunion, June 4, 5 and 6, have been worked out by the committtee in charge. 
The first big class gathering will be held in the Bronzcwood Room of the La Salle Hotel, South Bend, on Friday evening, June 4. The official class Mass, to be offered fay Rev. JOHN J. CAV­ANAUGH, C.S.C., president of the Univcisit\-, will be on Saturday morning, at an hour—not too early— to he announced later. 
Saturday noon, in the Dining Hall on the campus, the C.S.C. priests who are members of the *23 class, will be hosts to the class at a luncheon. And Saturday ex'cning at the traditional Alumni Ban­quet the members of the Silver .Anniversar>' Class will sit together. 
Golf and swimming at your convenience, a base-hall game on Friday afternoon and another one Saturday afternoon—these, plus many a "session," will fill in all too quickly the comparatively few-hours of the weekend. Men of *23 will of course be housed in one hall on the campus. Registration will take place at a special booth at the entrance to the campus. 
Elsewhere in this issue you'll find a general stor>* on the Commencement and Reunion weekend. Read this and shoot along questions, if any, to the Alumni Office or lo PAUL CASTNER. 
You'll recall that the alumni recently cooperated with the Population Reference Bureau in a survey of the *23 and *38 classes regarding births. Maybe you'd like to know the results up to March 31 when the offidal compilation was made, ^v'ilh regard to '23. For a comparison with 38, sec the '38 column in this issue. 
One hundred eleven, or 60 per cent, of the cards mailed were returned. Of th 111 there were 100 who had married, and these 100 reported 235 births, for an average of 2.35. Eighty-four of the 100 had had at least one birth in the family. The average number of births for the married '23 men reporting at icast one birth was 2.80. 
According to the sur\-cy, the leaders in the class, each reporting eight births, are LOUIS A. DESMET, Chicago, and ANTHON'Y M. JACKSON, Assump­tion, 111. (Remember, we're writing only about the men who returned cards., JIM MARTIN, Chicago, had a long talk with BER.\ARD VOLL. He is with with seven, is in the next spot, followed by ROG KILEY, Chicago, HERB VALKER, Oak Park, III., and GEOFFREY BURKE, Albanv, N. Y., all with six. TOM LEAHY, Scranton. Pa., CLIFF DOLL, Louisville, and MERLIN ROLWING, Cairo, HI., all repotting five births, are next in line. 
Special Leap Year note—The following answered **no" to the question, "Have you ever married?": ALBERT M. HODLER, HENRY F. BARNHART, Dr. KEV m E. CURRAN, HAROLD F. HAYNES, DANIEL O'SULLIVAN, Jr., W. E. SHEA, J. GERALD CUDDIHY, JAMES X. BELL, EDWIN 
S. RYAN, GEORGE B. STOCK, and JOHN C. NORTON . 
W, F. RAUBER has been appointed assistant man­ager of sales, Swtchgcar Divisions of the Apparatus Department. General Electric Co., 6901 Elmwood Ave., Philadelphia 42. GEORGE A. UHLMEYER is the manner of the industrial sales department of the lowa-niinois Gas & Electric Co. 
St. Mary's Cathedral in Austin, Texas, of which Father JOSEPH McALLISTER, C.S.C., is the pas­tor, sustained $3,000 damages in a fire which was confined to the sacrist>-. LOUIS F. MOORE is superintendent of Colmnbia Steel Co., Provo, Utah. 
JIAf MARTIN, president of the OJeny J. Dean Sted Co., has ben elected president of the Chi­cago Serra Club. 
Thomas H. King, '18, an educator with an active and varied career, has recently been appointed director of alumni relations at Michigan State College, East Lansing, Mich. 
Tom joined the faculty of Michigan State College in 1933, as an assistant professor in physical education and served as end coach for the football team. In 1941, he was appointed head of the Department of Po­lice Administration, in which capacity he served until November, 1947. In 1943, he organized the central placement ofiSce at Michigan State College, which opened in September of that year. He was appointed as counselor for men in October, 1945, and two months later became director of the OflSce of Veterans Affairs. With the open­ing of the personnel ofSce in July, 1946, Tom took over the combined office as di­rector of the Placement and Personnel Serv­ice, serving in that capacity until his latest appointment. 
THOMAS H. KING 

A native of Boone county, Indiana, Tom received a Ph.B. from Notre Dame and his law degree from the University of Louisville in 1928. He served in the U. S. Army from 1917 to 1919 as a first lieutenant in the field artillery, was coach and athletic director at the University of Louisville from 1925 to 1932, and was field representative and assistant manager of the Travelers In­surance Company in 1931-33. 
Tom is married to the former Lula Van-Dyke, and the Kings have one son, Tom, Jr., a nationally known basketball player, who is at present director of public relations for the Chicago Stadium. 
1925 John P. Hurley. The Toledo Par­lor Furniture Co^ Toledo. O. 
WALTER J. CYR has been appointed manager of door closer sales of the Stamford, Conn., dinsion of Yale & Towne ^fanufacturing Co. 
GEORGE F. DRISCOLL, instructor of civil en­geneering at the University, has been named to the 
^ 

Tbiee of Notre Dame's four horsemen met at a dinner in Kansas City, Mo., in observ'ance of Knute Rockne day. They were HARRY STUHLDREHER, DON MILLER, and JIM CROWLEY. 
1926 Victor F. Lenuner. Box 661. Iron­wood* Mich. 
From VICLEMMER: On the afternoon of ''Universal Notre Dame Night" three of us—N. D. alumni—had an informal meeting in the office of the Michigan Attorney Gcn­eral, at Lansing, Mich. 
Present were: Attorney MEREDITH DOYLE (Menominee, Mich.) who is an assistant attorney general of Michigan at Lansing; WILLIAM F. WIT­
TENBURG (New Buffalo, Mich.) supervising audi­tor of the Michigan Auditor General, in the State Capitol, Lansing; and myself. 
On April 3, at Detroit, I had a \-isit with JOHN FREDERICK, '28, of Muskegon. Tried to see ED CROWE, but he was not in his office. 
GORDON BETHUNE, accountant for the 01i«r Iron Mining Company, Ironwood, has been pro­moted to the Duluth general office. I think he came from Colerane,' Minn. He was the secretarj- of our 
N. D. Club. He is the father of the "first" son, \ bom about a month ago. 
JOHN ROACH, law enforcement officer of Wis­consin, in the liquor and gambling traffic, comes up this way often, but only gets as far as Hurley, Wis. 
JOHN Q. .ADAMS spoke at the Boston meeting of the Catholic Conference on Industrial Problems on March 2 and 3. The title of his talk was "Man­agement Looks to the Future." 
GEORGE PARAGE was elected president of the St. Joseph county (South Bend) election board. 
JOHN A. GALLAGHER, former special agent with the Intelligence Unit of the Bureau of Internal Rewnue, has formed a law and accountanc>' partner­ship at 883 Union Commerce Bldg., Cleveland. 
1927 Joseph M. Bolomd* Radio Station ¥rSBT« South Bend* Ind. 
From JOE BOLAND: That call for help in the last issue got one (1) reply, for which a low bow to PAT HENEY, 1618 
E. Aloha, Seattle 2, Washington. Pat was in the Signal Corps during the recent unpleasantness. Mar­ried, he has fi\'e E)eautiful children . . . one, a ^ fullback-potentiality for about '68 at Notre Dame, fl Pat telU of BYRIL K. GROSECLOSE, his pal from Seattle, who is now assistant traffic manager for Quinn, White and Prince, wholesale fruit distrib^i­tors, located in the Skinner Bldg., there. Both are awaiting Notre Dame's first football call on the Northwest— in *49, when the Irish meet Washing­ton at Seattle. 
During Ye See's Universal Notre Dame Night visit to Indianapolis. BILL HOLLAND, JIM SHEERIN, and BOB GAVIN renewed old times with a few touches. CHARLEY RILEY didn't show at the meeting . . . previous commitments. Cfiazz is married; working at the Arsenal in Indianapolis, I'm informed. 
That's about the size of it, this trip: that *'Help! Help!" still goes. And, if there are any monogram men of '27 who arc NOT enrolled as dues-paying members of the National Monogram Club (revitalized alumni club) be sure to write me, at WSBT, scnd^ ing—if you please—two dollars as dues, for which you'll get the new Monogram Club paper three times yearly—the "Monogram News," as well as other advantages it will describe. 
ELMER F. MARCHINO is judge in the Indiana Stole Department of Rc\*enue. His home address is 125 East 51st St., Indianapolis 5. 
ALLEN R. THURN is a scrap iron buyer for M Bethlehem Steel Co., Bethlehem, Penna. His home " address is 1820 Sycamore St. 
109 0 I^uis F. Buckley, 170 E. iSlst SU ''^ ® EucUd 19. Ohio. 
20-Year Reunion 
June 4-6 
From LOU BUCKLEY: As TURK MEINERT very effectively stated in a recent letter, "interest and enthusiasm in our 20­>-ear reunion in June is certainly running high all over the country." As of April 8, 218 classmates have indicated they expect to attend the reunion. Distance docs not seem to interfere, as \vc have five men coming from California and a large number from New England. The fact that alt of our medical men intend to be present indicates that pressing business will not keep many away. 
If possible, plan to arrive before 6 p. m. Friday, June 4. As you arrive at the entrance to the campus, register at the alumni booth where you will be given a name badge and directed to the *28 residence hall which will be Morrissey Hall. The WAG­NER-SEARER local committee will greet you at the Friday night party and give you the '28 novelty identification. 
At 7 p. m. transportation will be arranged from the Hall to the Izaak Walton League Lodge located off Dixie Highway across from Healthwin Hospital. Those driving will be given a map showing how to get to the party. There will be signs up along the wav to direct you to it. It is absolutely essential that you drop a card to WILLARD WAGNER at once, if you have not done so, reserving a ticket to the fish fry and get-together. Wagner's address is 1437 East McKinley .Ave., South Bend. Wag is do­ing his usual fine job. so let's show our appreciation. 
JOHN IGOE has arranged for FATHER M.\T­THEW WALSH, C.S.C., to offer the Mass for the living '28 men on Saturday morning, June 5, at 
9:30 a. m. in the Morrissey Hall chapel. We arc fortunate in having the man who was president during our years at Notre Dame as celebrant. 
The '28 men will be seated together at the an­nual Alumni banquet Saturday night in the Univer­sity Dining Hall. 
Sunday morning the Mass for the deceased '28 men will be said by F.ATHER GALLAGAN, C.S.C., in the Morrissey Hall chapel. Father Gallagan, as you know, was chosen by class vote to be cele­brant of this Mass. Frank and Jim O'Toole. sons of our deceased classmate FRANK O'TOOLE and the first sons of a '28 man to attend Notre Dame, will ser\e this Mass. FRANK CREADON reports that the reaction of the fellows in Chicago is ver>' enthusiastic to his plan to have the '28 Glee Club sing the Mass. Frank intends to have the '28 Glee Clubbers who reside in the vicinity of Chicago get together for a few rehearsals prior to June 6, so that they might get into the same shape they were in twenty years age. 
BILL KEARNEY is making arrangements for the *28 class golf tournament for Sunday. .-V tournament sheet will be placed at the starting point so that all *28 players can post their names and their scores. Bill advises there will be a trophy for the winner. Judge MAURICE CONLEY will arrange for a Softball game. 
I am sure you will agree with me that BERNIE G.ARBER and his Publicity Committee are doing an excellent job. LEO McIN*TYRE and D.WE GIB­SON have been added to the men previously an­nounced as members of that outstanding committee. If you haven't completed Bernic's questionnaire for a class history, please do so at once and send it to him at 8ih Floor, 33 West 60th St., New York 23, 
N. Y. Bcrnie and some of the members of his com­mittee, including JOHN McMAHON and LEO Mc-INTYRE, are not only preparing publicity material, but are actually taking care of the printing and mailing. Since this involved addressing and mailing some 500 letters for each mailing, it is a huge job and a very costly one. Wc are deeply indebted to these men for their great contribution to our reunion. 
The other men assigned to committees to promote attendance are doing a fine job. To date, I have heard of the following work by this group: TURK MEINERT, HOWIE PH.ALIN, GEORGE BEAM­
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 

Back of the harmony between manage­ment and labor that kept war plants of Portland, Ore., himmiing and free of labor unrest were the efforts of a hard-working, persuasive priest, the Very Rev. Thomas J. Tobin, '20. S.T.D., j.cj)., LL.D. 
Father Tobin, pastor of All Saints Church 
VERY BEV. THOMAS I. TOBIM 

and Vicar General of the Archdiocese of 
Portland, managed to find enough time, de­
spite numerous parish and diocesan duties, 
to take over as chairman of the Portland 
Labor Stabilization Joint Board of Appeal. 
When the board was set up in October, 1942, labor and management were unani­mous in their choice of a neutral public chairman. The three-man board was given complete authority over movements of work­ers from one plant to another and over labor-management disputes. The Oregon director of the U. S. Employment Service went to the WMC chairman in Washington to convince him that Portland didn't need a federal board since it was doing its own job. 
Father Tobin maintained a deep interest in labor problems after the war. On Jan. 17, 1948, he was appointed to the Wage and Hour Conunission. , 
After being graduated from Notre Dame, Father Tobin studied at North American College in Rome until 1925, when he was ordained. From 1933 to 1936 he attended Gregorian University in Rome, where he re­ceived his doctorate in Canon Law, 
One of the West's foremost authorities on canon law, he was appointed chancellor of the Archdiocese of Portland in 1936, and Vicar General in 1940. An ardent advocate of the Liturgical Movement, he has in this field alone done work that is described by a fellow priest as "simply stupendous." 
ER, JOHN LAKSEN have written to the A3. . CodUDerce, '29 lawyers and Enguieen icspectndr who weie not Usteii on the '28 rater as attenifing the reunion. JACK CANDMRO aho wrote to 30 cb» ­mates and JOE LANCTON has written two letten to the Missouri '28 men. 1 am sure that many move of you have also written to classmates regarding attendance. 
LEO McINTyRE has been appointed chainnan of a committee to locate addresses of those listed as unclaimed on our '28 raster. JOHN LARSEN and BERNIE GARBER have abeady helped Leo on this work. Leo is of the opinion that JAMES T. MOR­RISSEY, JOSEPH D. MURPHY and JOHN J. HOWARD are deceased. Please send Leo at 121 N. Ninth St., ADentown, fo., any information ,yoa have on these men, as well as the .others listed ai unclaimed on the '28 raster. FRANK CONNORS also wrote that JOSEPH D. MLIIPHY iGed sev­eial yean ago. 
A total of $170J0 has been contributed to date by 113 classmates to help pay the expenses involved in the promotional wrorfc of the reunion-1 have not acknowledged these contributions individaally, but wish to thank the 113 men who have con­tributed. 
I wish to cxtem] our sympathy to our local chair­man, WILLARD WAGNER, on the tragic death ot his father and aunt by accidental asjdiyxiation' in their home in Greenfield, Mass. 
Last month I bad the opportunity of visiting JOHN HERBERT while in Boston where I spoke at the Catholic Coofereace on Industrial I^oUems. John is manager for the New England area for Will & Baumer Candle Co. John has two children. I was sorry to hear that John's mother died in November. 
I also had a fine session with TOM QUALTERS while in Boston. I hope he writes a book on his experiences as bodyguard to F.DJI., as he has some very interesting impressions to relate on this subject. Tom, as you know, was also in the armed services fhirii^E the war. 
RAY MULLIGAN wrote from Chicago on the occasion of the birth of his second child recently. Ray was married in 1942 while in the Navy. He arrived home from the Pacific for Christmas 1945 and is back with the Chicago Htle & Trust Co. 
FATHER JAMES McSHANE, S.J., had an ex­cellent article in the June, 1947, issue of Socikt Order on credit unions. Father Jim, as you know, is located at S.S. Peter and Paul Rectory, 130 N. Sixth St., Mankato, Minn. 
I had a fine letter from ART PARISIEN from 548 
E. 7th St., Uidand, Calif. Art is married and has two children. Art inquired about JIM SEXTON, ED ABEL, JOHN ROBINSON, TOM BYRNE, and JOHN CONSIDINE. 
HENRY DAVIS, who is with the Sterling On Division, St. Mary's, W. Va., tells me that my old roommate, JIM SEXTON, is with a drilling com­pany in Texas. Jim's address is General Delivery, Robert Lee, Texas. 
GERALD SHIBLEY, who lives in Fostoria, O., is with the Grider Machine Tool Co. in Bowling Green, O. Gerald has three chilciren. 
BERNARD BIRD wrote of the note of deep tra­gedy in the '28 roster as he observed that the only college roommates he ever had, FRANK O'TOOLE and AL THOMAS, were listed as deceased. Bemie is still deputy dty treasurer of Buffalo, N. Y., and is teaching criminology and general sodoli^y at Ca­nisius College. FRANK CONNORS sent me a clip­ping from the Buffalo '^Courier-Express^* carrying a picture of Bernie and a statement by him on how he is observing Lent in the inquiring reporter column. 
FATHER ANDY MULREANY, CS.C , whose ad­dress is St. Mary's Church, 209 E. IDth St., Austin, Texas, hopes to be with us at the reunion in June. 
CYP SPORL advised that he is making a buri­ness trip to the Scandinavian countries, so win be unable to attend the reunion. At Cyp's suggestion, STEVE WOZNIAK has been appointed to take his place as chairman of the committee to promote at­tendance of '28 lawyers. 
ART DENCHFIELD wrote from Caixa Postal 21, Recife, Peroamhuca, Brazil, that since he was in 
U. S. A. and m*er to Scandinavia last summer he will not be able to attend our letmion this year. 
30 
BILL 0*HARA is chief accountant of the Man­chester Di%^on of the Connecticut Power Co., Manchester, Conn. J. HARVEY DALY is personnel and public relations director. Giant Food Depart­ment Stores, Washington, D. G. 
PAT VARRAVETO is \nth the Lockheed Air­craft in Los Angeles. FRANK DAVID is at the New Orleans District, Corps of Engineers, major Ei^nccr Reserve. My old roommate and best man, JOHN L. BRANNON, after being in the Navy during the war, returned as manager. Sears Roebuck Co., Sacramento, Calif. Joe, as an extra-curricular acti^aty, is head of a campaign to raise funds for a new church, school, sisters* home and rectory in 

•his new parish. Joe is married and has two children. 
JOE KINNEARY is now located at 908 Um'on Central Bldg., Cincinnati 2, O. JOE McNAMARA is legal counsel for the Bridgeport Brass Co., viith offices at 30 Grand St., Bridgeport 2, Conn. Joe sees JOHN MALLOY and Judge JOHN CULLIN­AN in Bridgeport. 
JIM BERRY writes from R.D. No. 2, Stanley, 
N. Y., that he has four children. 
JOHN FORGE is still with Goodyear in Des Moines, la. Doc holds the distinction of being the first grandfather in the class. Please advise me if there are any other men who are grandfathers. 
BOB NTCKELLS \*-rites from Los Angeles that contemplation of the memorable event (the 20->'car reunion) without participation \rill take a lot of "grin-and-bear-it philosophy." 

I ^ited VINCE CARNEY recently in Rochelle, SI. Vince has four daughters and one son. He prom­ised to see that PAUL FREY and RED LAHEY of Dixon attend our reunion. \'incc also ^^TOte to CONNIE OCHOA urging him to attend. Vince makes annual trips to Mexico. 
GEORGE A. SCHEUER has joined the staff of the South Bend Tribune and thereby becomes a member of the Local Arrangements Committee, as well as the Publicity Committee. 
%fIKE LAWLER is doing some ring announcing for the Illinois State Athletic Commission, occasionally on tele\'ision. JACK ELDER is secrctar>' of the Commission. 
JOE BAIRLEY writes from Saginaw, Mich., that he has four bo}-s and three girls. This tics the rec­ord mentioned in the Februarj' ALUMNUS of FRANK KELLY. Let me know if there are any *28 men who can break this record on number of children. 
MIKE HOGAN of Fort IVaj-ne called my atten­tion to Ibting ROSS E. PETTIT on our '28 roster as a deceased classmate. 
As of April 8, the follouing men have ad\*ised me that they hope to attend our 20->'ear reunion: 
Alexander, Cedl; Allan, James A.; Amiot, Neil H.; Armin, Wm. F.; Bairley, Joseph J.; Berr>% James F.; BenagUa, Geo. P., Rev.; Bird, Bernard J.; Boehning, James W.; Boyle, Andrew J.; Brad­ley, Daniel J.; Brannon, John £.; Brust, Paul C ; Buckley, Louis F.; Burke, Bolan E.; Buschcmeyer, John B.; B>Tnc, Thos. F.; CaIIag>-, ^farti^ V.; Can­izaro, James T.; Canny, Patrick; Carney, Vincent. 
Carlin, John E.; Ca\*anaugh, John W.; Collins, Thos. S.; Conlcy, Maurice B.; Connors, Francis H.; Coury, George; Covert, Geo. F.; Creadon, Frands P.; Cronin, Wm. F.; Crowley, John M.; Cullincy, Lawrence J.; Cunningham, Edw. P.; Daly, Dennis D.; Davis, Henry P.; Da\TS, John A.; Dean, Edw. J.; DeCIercq^ Jerome C ; Devlin, James A-; Don­ovan, Francis J.. 
Doyle, John J.; Doyle, Joseph L.; Ducey, Chas. J.; Duffy, Edw. J.; Duquette, Frands L.; Dw>-er, Wm. K.; Egan, John W.; Erans, Robt. F.; Farrell, Eugene G.; Farrell, Marcus E.; Fcttig, Leo B.; Finn, Edmund J.; Fitzgerald, Kfark J., Rev; Flana­gan, Christie; Fbnagan, Frank M.; Fogerty, Robert P.; Fontana, John C ; Forge, C John; Frederick, John F.; Frey, Paul. 
Galardy, Frank M.; Gallagher, Peter J.; Garber, Bernard A.; Geraghty, Joseph M.; Gilbert, Jacob H.; Gleason, Arthur E.; Gocke, John A., Dr; Gra­ham, Robert F.; Grams, August M.; Grant, Robert A.; Griffin, Joseph W.; Gury, Albert F.; Halpcrin, Jacob, Dr.; Hamilton, Robt. A.; Haney, Joseph A.; Hans, Alvin; Hart, Thomas M.; Hasley, Henry; Haven, Clarence B.; Hegarty, Francis A-, Dr.; Herbert, John R.; Hickey, David F.; Hogan, Mi­chael J.; Holton, Arthur P.; Horan, Joseph J. 
IgoCj John D.; Ingram, James M.; Jeffcrys, Hud-
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 

Michael Joseph Tiemey, '21, who was New York City metropolitan director of the New York State Employment Service, was appointed state director on Jan. 1. 
The New York State Employment Service is the largest personnel organization in the world with a staff of approximately 2,300 people in 90 ofiSces. The Manhattan office, which Joe headed, has been studied by rep­resentatives of all the large metropolitan cities in the country. 
MICHAEL lOSEPH TIEBNEY 

Joe joined the New York State Employ­ment Service in 1938 as assistant district superintendent of the Rochester district. In 1940 he was made metropolitan director, a position which he held until his recent pro­motion except for 25 months spent in the Army in World War 11. 
Joe entered the military service as execu­tive officer of the Labor Branch, Ninth Serv­ice Command. He handled strikes in the non-ferrous metal mines and the logging and lumber industry in the Rocky Mountain and West Coast states. He joined the Army as a major in 1942 and became a lieutenant colonel in 1943, a.rank he held until going on inactive duty in October, 1944. 
Married in 1922 to Thehna Overlies of Rochester, Joe has five children. The old­est, Joseph, was graduated from Notre Dame in 1946 and is now in the Holy Cross For­eign Mission Seminary in Washington, D. C. A daughter, Mary Agnes, will be professed this June in the Sisters of St. Joseph Order, and another son, Thomas, is awaiting en­trance to Notre Dame. The Tiemeys live in Bayside, Long Island. 
son; JcnluDS, Augttstus; Johnson, J. Allan; Jones, Wm. B.; Kearney, Wm. P.; Kearns, James R.; Keller, Geo. H.; Kinneary, Joseph P.; Kiiby, Robt. E.; Klrwan, Joseph W.; Knox, Robt. V.; Konop, Wm. P.; Konen, Bernard J. 
Lahey, John P.;' Lamey, Robt. S.; LangtOD, J,. Joseph; Larsen, John F.; Lavelle, John S.; LaveDe, Thos. F.; Lawler, M. Raymond; Leahy, Wm. H.; 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Loeffier, Bernard T.; Lussoon, Raymond J.; Mc­damon, Edmund F.; McGauIey, Edw. J.; M o Intyie, Leo R.; McKeown, Edw. P.; McMahon, Jcdm F.: McShane, James L., Rev.; McSorley, John J.; McSweeney, Edw. L.; Madden, Joseph J.; Ma­lun, Wm. E.; Mahon, Thos. C.; Massman, Henry J. 
Meinert, Dorotheus M.; Miller, Arthur W.; MUler, Harold A.; Mobily, Sylvester N.; Mode, Raymond G.; Mohlman, Robert J.; Moirissey, Joseph S.; Mullen, John A.; Mulligan, Raymond H.; Mulreany, Andrew, Rev.; Murphy, Hayes; Murphy, John R.; Murphy, Wm. H.; Norman, Louis W.; O'Brien, Eugene A.; O'Connor, Philip A.; O'Connor, Pierce J.; O'&Iaia, William. 
Parker, J. Gregory; Piter, Clement A.; Persyn, Henry A.; Pfortner, Frederick W.; Phalin, Howard; Fhalen, Richard L.; Pinkley, J. Carroll; Pluchel, Wm. H.; Power, Kenneth; Quiolan, Richard D.; Qulnn, Edw. R.; Quinn, Francis J.; Rafter, Edw. P.; Rau, Donavan J.; Rich, Ronald E.; Rickord, John W.; Ricks, Michael T.; Rini, Martin A; Robin­son, John F.; Ryan, Martin A. 
Salmon, &lartin; Saigus, Geo. J.; Scheuer, Geo. A.; Schnurr, Alfred A.; Scfaroeder, Francis C ; Schubmehl, Harry F.; Schuessler, Clias. A.; Schuh, Bernard R.; Searer, R. Floyd; Seidensticker, Nor­bert; Sheedy, John C ; Schocknessy, James W.; Simonin, Joseph R.; Smith, David H.; Smith, Rus­sell R.; Solomon, S. David, Dr.; Sporl, Cyprian A.; Stenius, C Arthur; Strohm, Francis H. 
Telian, Edw. A.; Thoma, C. Arnold; Tobin, Paul G., Dr.; Toepp, Burton; Topping, Clias.- G.; Totten, dias. A.; Varraveto, Patrick; Viktoryn, John W., Dr.; Voedisch, John T.; Wagner, Geo. A.; Walsh, Leo W.; Walsh, Vincent T.; White, James E.; WU­deman, Quentin; Williams, Chas. A.; Wilson, Fran­cis J.; Wingerter, John J.; Wingerter, Laurence A.; Wood, B. P.; Worden, Roy A.; Wozniak, Stephen J. 
Beamer, Geo. N.; Cullen, Matthew J.; DeDario, Anthony; Dowdall, Wm. P.; Jones, Thomas J.; Mc­Namara, Joseph; Wagner, WiUard F.; Hilger, Joseph P.; Rieder, Ernest V.; Gibson, David N.; Happer, Thomas V.; Salrnan, Fred J.; Sheibley, Goald; Breslin, Roger W.; Brown, Frances E.; Momsen, Rufjen; McGuire, £d.; Warren, John; Cain, John; Haven, Bert. 
BOB HAIkHLTON has been made executii-e as­sitant to the vice president of Pan American Air­ways. 
Dr. Wn.LIAM A. McGUIRE is practicing med­icine at 2322 N. Kings Highway, St. Louis, Mo. 
JOSEPH C. NORTON is an electrical engineer with Carbide & Carbon Chemicals Corp., South Charleston, W. Va. 
1929 JamM R. Nowenr* P. O. Box 1545« SIireT«port teu 
LOUIS R- SINCLAIR is new-s editor of the Enquirer and News in Battle Creek, Mich. 
OLIVER SCHELL is now a member of the dty council of Tyrone, Pa. 
JOSEPH S. SULLIVAN is comptroller of the Northern Illinois College of Optometry, 41st and Drexel, Chicago. 
GERALD A. BUSCH is assistant industrial rela­tions manager of Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 26 Broad­way, New York. 
1930 Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. Broad SL. Philadelphia. Pa. 
JOHN MORAN, with his partners, has opened a law office in Boston at 31 State St. The firm name is Costello, Moran and Mohan. JOSEPH A. Mc-HUGH is director of service sales for the F. A. O'NeiO Mat. Corp., 345 Market St., Kingston, Pa. ALEXANDER C. MACKEY is supervisor of Rem­ington Rand's tabulating department, 5033 Elston Ave., Cliicago 41. 
FATHER (MAJ.) EDWARD R. FrrZGERALD is a' chaplain at Hickam Field, Honolulu, Territory of Hawaii. GORDON W. DIESING is an attorney with offices at 1028 City National Bank, Omaha, Neb. 
Professor LOUIS HASLEY, assistant dean of the CdOtge of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame, wrote **The Catholic Writer's Problems," whidi appeared in the Feb. 28 issue of Amtrica. FRANCIS A. "Bin. " FINK has written the life of Most Rev. John Francis Noll, bishop of Fort Wayne, which ap­peared in Our Sunday Visitor, of which Bill is man­aging editor. JOHN A. HURLEY is the New York City area director of the Veterans Reemployment Rights, DiWston of Labor, 11 W. 42nd St. 
1931 Walter F. Philipp, 4 Pickwick Lcme, Newton Square, Pa; 
DEON SUTTON is publishing Omnibook, Edition Francaise, in Paris. He HTote from the Herald Tribune Building, 21 Rue de Berri, that distribu­tion of the magazine has just started in the U. S.: "We could use a few pages of American advertising. Some of our fellow Notre Damers might be in a position to give us a little push. At present our American agent is: Omnibook, 76 Ninth Ave., New York." Deon was married on Dec. 21, 1946 to Si­mone Legard in Paris. 
Dr CHARLES H. SCHUTT is practicing medicine at Fort Totten General Hospital, Fort Totten, N. Y. 
EDWARD P. DeNINNO is producing industrial motion pictures in Pittsburgh. His home address is 490 S. Highland Ave. 
BILLY SULLIVAN, who has his own construc­tion company in Sarasota, Fla., played with the Pittsburgh Pirates baseball team all last summer, although a severe knee injury early in the season prevented him from doing much catching. 
FORREST R. WEST has organized an architec­tural firm in South Bend. He formerly was deputy chief architect for Indiana in the Federal Housing Administration. 
JAMES A. HIGGISTON, who is leaching math­ematics and doing school administration work in Milford, Mass., ts also doing graduate work at Har­vard on his doctorate. 
 E. CoUins, 17 Triangle 
1932 James 
Aye.. Dayton 9. O. 
From JIM COLLINS: 
A recent letter from WEE HARRINGTON points out that he is bothered with a common malady— trying to keep up with the addresses and other members ol the class. 
"Each month," Wee sa>-s, "I hungrily grab for the ALUMNUS only to be sadly disappointed in the lack of news concerning the last class of '32. As I recall most of them could read and write. Could it be that it didn't take? 
*T think it would be a very good idea if some attempt was made to set up a complete list of the class, the present occupations, size of the families, present addresses, etc. How about putting out a feeler in the next issue of the ALUMNUS? 
"I went to the Army game and tvas a comnlete stranger. CHARLIE HITZELBERGER was to have gone along, but Jn the last minute was forced to continue the struggle to pile up the surtax net in­come. In three days on th campus I ran into one lone . member of the class of '32—Buffalo BILL HALL. In one hour in a local pub I met the only other member of said class—ED KELLY, who was very down in the mouth as he had just learned that GENE CONNOLLY had more children than he has. 
"I see AL WATERS and DICK BOHNSACK reg­ularly. AI is with the Middlesex County Probation Dept., and Dick is coaching a basketball team. (No names can be mentioned as he is very sensitive about their record.) 
"A couple of weeks back I ran into JIM O'CON­NOR—he is now with the FBI. BILL MURPHY is connected with the U. S. Marshal's oRice in New­ark, and evidently leading a \*erv interesting life. I ha\-e written SOL BONTEMPO but cannot get any resnonse. TONY GUI^FRE has become a board and splinter man with the Ira Crouse Lumber Com­pany in Perth Amboy. By the way. Hitrclberger has ^ven no shoe laces and is now selling bufHng pads —^I think it is from door to door as you cannot sell wholesale at night." 
Thanks, Wee, for a fine letter. Does anvone else feel the need of such a directory of the class? If so, droD me a note and I'll see what can be done about it. 
BILL CONATON was in Dayton for a day re­cently and we had an evening. He is still in the dairy equipment business and covers the eastern half of the country. 
STAN CZAPALSKI wrote that he would be in Dayton for the Knights of Columbus bowling tour­nament, hut I mi^cd seeing him. He mentioned that he sees THAD ZELOWSKI occasionally. Thad is practicing medicine in Chicago. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMHU% 

Joseph E. Duffey, '22, New York City, recently elected vice-president of the •Dia­mond Match Co., will be responsible for the timber and lumber operations of the com­pany and \n\\ have general charge of pro­duction of all other departments and divi-
JOSEPH E. DOFFEY 

Joe has been president of Industrial Man­agement Engineers, Inc., of New York, and Management Engineers, Ltd., of Montreal, Canada, since 1932. His U. S. organization has been retained by American match manu­facturers as consultant in engineering and timber operations for more than 15 years while his Montreal headquarters has acted in a similar capacity for the Canadian match industry. He is also president of Consoli­dcted Building Materials, Inc., operating nine lumber yards in Vermont and Con­necticut. 
In addition to formulating Diamond's production policies, Joe will direct opera­tion of company timber tracts in California, Oregon, Washington, Idaho and Maine which supply the factories of the company and its B-F-D Division, for the manufacture of matches, paper and paper goods, clothes­pins, toothpicks, candy sticks and various items of woodenware. The timber tracts also provide lumber for the 101 retail yards and building material stores operated by the company. 
JOE PETRTTZ, publicist for the AU-America Football Conference, sent in the addresses of six men who were listed in the enclosure witii the April ALUMNUS as "address unknown." 
The Associated Press, United Press and the radio have been giving a great deal of publicity, to ED­WARD W. MEHREN's proposal that the govern­ment coin a V/z-ccnx. piece. He made a stop on the campus in February. 
Rev. PAUL J. HALLINAN is the resident chap­lain of the chapel in Newman Hall at Case SchoiJ, Cleveland. 
LEO E. CAVANAUGH is with the Michigan Medical Exchange, Lock Box 1702, Detroit 31. 
ROBERT J. HURLEY is living at 18 Coste A«. , Buffalo 20, N. Y. 
1933 leMph A. MeCcdM. AdvariUag. Eotman Kbdcdc Co. 343 State 
St. BochMtor. N. T. 
15-Year Reunkm 
June A4> 

- PAUL J. WEIDNER is manufacturing redwood awnings in Detroit. His home address is U454 Col­lege Ave./ Det^it 5. JOHN N. STOESSLER is ivactidng law at 5412 N. Clark St., Chicago. ROB­ERT £ . O'CONNOR is in the insurance business at 100 W. Seven Mile Road, Detroit, Mich. JO­SEPH £. PILON is the manager of the Western Adjustment & Inspection Co., Lion Cafe Building. 91 S. Main St., Fond du Lac, Wis. 
JOHN L. TOWNE is a lawyer with the Office oi the Solicitor, Department of Commerce, Wash­ington 25, D. C. MILTON J. FOLEY is the execo­tive vice inrsident of the Powell River Co., Ltd., 1204 Standard BIi^., Vancouver, B. C , Canada. THOMAS E. ENRIGHT is doing sales work with Day and Maddock Co., 8201 Almira Ave., W., Cleve­land 2. 
JOHN H. FRIEL is with the Association of American Raulroads in the Car Service divinon, 421 South Station, Boston, Mass. CHARLES F. HAF­RON, who was assistant coacfa at lUIcy High School, South Bend, has been named assistant coach to JOE KUHARICH, '38, at the Uni\-ersitr of San Fnn­dsco. 
RAYMOND J. HARMON is thtf cashier of the American Locomotive Co., 100 Orchard St., Auburn, 
. N. Y. Dr. ROBERT £. DONOVAN is a camfidate for the school committee in Arlington, Mass. FRANK CAWLEY is now the budget officer of the Deput­menC of Commerce, Washington, D. C 
WALTER J. KECKICH has been appointed as­sistant U. S. attorney for the northern district of Indiana. He will be in charge of the Hanmiond division office. 
CHARLES J. VAUGHAN is advertising mana­ger of the Purity Bread Co., 1003 3rd Ave., Rock­ford, lU. 
BILLY SULLIVAN, *31, reports that he sees JOE FOLEY occasionally: "Joe is the head of a huge lumber empire—^Brooks, Scranton Co. He just left Florida to go to Vancouver, B. C , where one of his brothers is holding forth with one of their subsidiaries.'* 
From JOE McCABE : Hope everyone is set for the trek to South Bend— we've got very active men lining things up for ns there for the June Reune. Details will prob^ly have 
- reached you, via U. S. mail, before this nu^azine arrives. 
We know that FATHER "CHICK" SHEEDY, C.S.C., will be celebrant of the Class Mass on Re­union Sunday. For the undersigned, at least, it's always a pleasurable thrill to see a former "civflun" and dassmate in priesdy garb .. . he might be the one who'll sneak us past that Golden Gate! We saw a bit of Father "Chick" in Washii^ton, when we were in darkish garb ourselves (Navy bine), and we found his dr(^ wit undimmed .. . a fine priest, and a great guy. 
Those are all the details we can supply as we go io press. Right here is about time for the ttsoal pep-talk inomotion to get all hands drooling with anticipation for the arrival of Reunion. But shucks . . . you're probably as tired of reading that lug build-up as I am of writing it. You all know what Reunion means—how much solid, unforgettaUe sat­bfactioo there is, mixed with the gayer highlights of Auld Gai^r Myne. The fun, the memories, the quiet satisfaction will be there, waitii^ for every­one who can get there . . . the trip is really worth it . . . and it %rin be five xmpredictable yean until the next Reunion. So .. . try to make it, won't you? 
Here in Rochester, PETE CONNELLY is definite­ly plannii^ on goii^, and is trying to enlist aU classmates within shouting and phoning distance to make up a caraxran. Fete's a lawyer, and draws up a nice summons. JACK MURRAY, formerly of Chicagoland, now here with Kodak^ is going to tr>' to go if he can swing it. The \ine has it that JACK TRAVERS is booming the big drum up Buffalo way, and expects a substantial convoy of *33's to rally round for R-Day . 
MIKE KOKEN, out in South Bend, is now chairman of the board, Indiana Motor Trucking Association, Northern Indiana chapter, following a >-car as president of the group, ^Iike will have to attend the association's annual meeting at Lake \Va­wasee, Ind., on June 4-5, but hopes to get back for a bit of the reunion on June 6. 
1934 Joseph B. Glennon, Jr., Commer­cial Solvents Corp., 17 E. 42nd St. New York City 17. 
Dr. JOHX J. DORSEY has opened an office for plastic and reconstructive sur^erv- at 250 E. 43rd St., New York 17. EDWARD T. i'lcGRAX.N' is a pro­fessional representative in Xew York City. His home address is 64 High St.. Wareham. Mass. tEOXARD 
C. NACHBAR, 4904 38th Ave. South, is a public accountant with Ernst & Ernst, Minneapolis, Minn. 
THO.NWS C. ifcLAUGHLI.V is residing in Nice, France. CHARLES K. WRIGHT is in the real es­tate and insurance business at oil Water St., Port Huron, Mich. HARVEY P. ROCKWELL, Jr., runs the Rockwell Engineering Co., 4063 X. New Jersey St., Indianapolis 5, Ind. 
XICK LUKATS was in South Bend with JACK CARBERR Y in April trying to sign FRANK LEAH\' to a juicy movie contract. Leahy refused fb become an actor. 
1935 FrcmUya C. Hocfareiter, 1327 Pentwood Bd„ Baltimore 12. Md. From HOCH: 
We have been away from the office for the better part of two weeks, carrying on at borne in place " of the "little woman." Our third daughter arrived on April 5 and has assumed her position in the female-dominated castle as Mary Christine. 

A card came in during March from ED KIL­MURRAY telling us of the relocation of his law office in Racine, Wis., to 1927 Charies St. 
FRED BROOKMEYER has been in to see us frequently during the past year snd during the month of March he has sent us numerous cards from his swing through the South. A stopoff in norida made the trip worthwhile. 
One letter arrived and it was from FRANK SINNOTT. We give it to you as it came to us. 
"Every time I receive an issue of the ALUSI.VUS I determine to write to you and get you up-to-date on what I have been doing and the little bit I know about some of our classmates. As you well know, my resolution to write rarely materializes—I believe that this is my second letter to you in the dozen plus years we have been away from Xotre Dame. 
"After separation from the Navy, in 1945, I re­turned to my old teaching job at Farragut Academy in Toms River, N. J. Along about a year ago I joined the Contract Field Service Division of Phiico Corporation in Philadelphia. So far I have been doing all right in Phiico and have no cause for compUint at all. Incidentally, whenever you get up to Philly give me a growl at Lin'ngslon 9-6000, or call my home number, Ogontz 3285-W (Home ad­dress: 431 E. Wharton Road, Glenside, Pa.). 
^ "In all my travels in the Na\-y and in my occa­sional jaunts in civilian life I rarely run into any of the '35 gang. However, my wife (Lorraine) and I did call on JIM and BILL DILLON out in Pitts­burgh in the summer of '46. Both of the Dillon brothers spent almost five years in the Army and both had fine records. Bill was in the class after ours '•; <2se you are wondering. On the same trip we visited N.D. briefly and we spent some time with BOB SIMMONS in Rochester, N. Y. Bob was back in business with his father, settling do»>n after a very lively time as a glider infantryman (with a splendid record). We had a good reunion in Ro­chester with CHUCK BRAGG, who is doing well in the building supply business. 
"We learned from the Dillon brothers that our old side kick, BOB MAHER, was doing vety well as an M.D. somewhere in the Northwest. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
MATTHEW a ROTHERT 

Matthew H. Rothert, '24, president of the Camden Furniture Co., Camden, Ark., has been made director for the state of Arkansas of the National Association of Manufacturers. 
The announcement of Matt's appointment was made by Arthur G. Drefs, regional vice-president of the N.A.M. and president of the McQuay-Norris Manufacturing Co., St. Louis. 
Bom in Huntingburg, Ind., Matt began his career with the Huntingburg Furniture Co. and in 1926 moved to Camden. He is chairman of the industrial committee of the Arkansas Economic Council of the State Chamber of Commerce and a director of the .Arkansas Public Expenditure Council. 
''About a week or two ago I saw an article in the New York Times announdng BOB SIMMONS* engagement to Miss Mar>- Catherine Simpson of Rochester. We met Afar>' Catherine during our visit; she is a very fine girl. 
"Tliat's about alt I can think of now, Hf>cfa, ex­cept that the Sinnotts have a daughter, also named Lorraine (age 9 months). I cetainly enjoy your notes in the ALUMNUS, and I sincerely hope that you will continue to have every success." 
Congratulations on the daughter, Frank. Looks like we are producing plenty of candidates for St. Mar>-'s in the class of '35. How about a trip to Baltimore one day—you^re not far aM-ay! 
That's it this time gang! Let's have a few letters! 
ROBERT NL SLACK, who is personnel manager of H. J. Heinz Co., Medina, X. Y., reports that the local K. of C. Council accommodated the N. D. concert band members overnight in its dormitory when the band played in Medina on April 6. 
JOHN W. CARBERRY, who is associated with Bing Crosby, visited in South Bend with NICK LU­KATS, '34, on April 10. 
THOMAS J. McSWEENEY, Jr., is a bu>«r with the Caterpillar Tractor Co.j Peoria, III. 
Dr. FRANK A. DINEEN is practicing mediane at 121 University Place, Pittsburgh, Pa. His home address is 4532 Penn Ave. 
GEORGE W. STELZER, 1603 State St., St. Joseph, Mich., is with the Bramall Supply Co., Benton Harbor, Mich. 
JOSEPH C. DUDLEY is a special agent for the Northwestern Life Insurance Co. His mailing address is P. O. Box 531, Paducah, Ky. 
WARREN J. ASHLEY, who is co-owner of the Dy-Dee Diaper Serxice, 13232 Turner Ave., has bc«n named to the Detroit Department of Health. 
1936 Joseph F. Mansfield. National Broadcasting Co., 30 Bockefellei Ploza, Hodio Cit;. New Yoric, 
N. Y. 

FRANK E. CANE is executive officer of the State Board of Corrections of California. His address is 1840 Fourth Ave., Sacramento, Calif. 
FRANCIS J. KELLY is postmaster at Mansfield, Pa. 
RICH.\RD A. SCHMIDT is plant tnanager of Linde Products Co., 541 Covcnd Ave., Cambridge, Mass. 
 J. Reilly, MacKoir-Dorlcznd 

1937 
Frank 
Co.. 254 W. 3Isi St., N. Y. C. 

From FRANK J. REILLY: 
One of the first and certainly the most ambitious piece of mail to arrive after the February* issue of the ALUMNUS had been received u'as a four page tome from PHIL HOSTERM.AN, now a travelling man for Eastman Tag & Label Co.. Seattle. Phil makes his home in Seattle, living at 4807 Hudson St. He writes: **Vou will probably have to turn back the pages of history a few years in order to identify the wTiter and a few of the names mentioned ^k herein. .. . It happens that I'm on the road for the V abow concern covering most of Washington, western Idaho and northwestern Oregon. This offers an explanation—^just in case you're wondering—how I happen to see these lads in \-arious locations. 
"Just left Aberdeen (Wash.) yesterday (Mar. 5) and while there had lunch with MAURICE SCHA­FER, '38. Being a lumberman, Morrie's biggest problem has been trying to fill the demands of the public . . . 'public' included a certain Miss Marie McHugh . . . Apr. 10 . . . the wedding vnll take place at St. Joseph's Church. Seattle. 
**Over on the other side of the state, I frequentlv see WALT SMYTHE, formriy of Salt Lake City, who is now with General Elcctric's atomic energy* project in Richland and Hanford, Wash. I usually take advantage of the hospitality offered by the Smytbes' and stay over long enough to enjoy some of Helen's good dishes and a pleasant evening. Their three healthy youngsters add their share to the e\'emng and make it seem more like home. (We have two boys; and do I miss those kids when I'm on the road!) 
"Walt is in the personnel flivision and has to do some travelling himself on occasions when he at­tends hearings in Olympia and Seattle. 
•*WhiIe in Spokane recently. I ran into JOE Mc-GRATH, '36, at the Quarterback Club, He is now taking his masters at Gonzaga U., while doing some flft teaching there. He also coaches track. He boasts of a few things, principal among them being Mrs. McGrath. four youngsters and the fact that he once weighed 155 pounds. 
"Also in Spokane I enjoyed frequent vbits at the home of JIM DURBLV. '47. of the Indianapolis area. Jim is learning the clock works of the hotel business at the Davenport and making grand pro­gress. 
"Our club in western Washington has also been making good progress. We have a membership of close to 100 of which 60 per cent is active. In the Scattle-Tacoma area. I often see DICK CAMP. ex. '36; GENE BICHON. '40: JOE HORRIGAN, PAT GOGGIN, JOHNNY ENGLISH. CHARLIE OS­BORN, JERRY KANE and others. 
"Say, I'd sure be interested in knowing a little about such bo>T as JACK GILLESPIE, BUD BON­FIELD, JACK McGURL and FRANK BARBUSH." 
Thanks, Phil, for the wonderful letter. We hope those fellows mentioned will get in touch with you directly and drop us a note for inclusion in the column. Incidentally. Phil Hosterman is one fellow whom I think I could recognize an>-*vhere, any time and under almost any circumstances. 
Another piece of mail from the West Coast, this time a birth announcement post marked Los .An-^ geles, went a long way tou-ard solving the riddle of ^B ^ "what e\-er became of MART HUSUNG?" The frard announced the birth of Karen Elizabeth to 
Martin and Grace Ilusung, who have two other , ^ children, Brian and Kathleen. Mart received his ^^fp law degree from N.D. in 1939. Wish he'd write xis -*' a nice long letter, which when stripped of its legal 
verbiage, might throw some further light on his recent activities. The Hiisung*s address is 1637 Hilts .•\ve., Los Angeles 24. 
Coming further east, we received a card about a month or six weeks ago from Dr. HERBERT E. LANDES, M.D., who announced his association with EDWARD T. WILSON, M.D., '37, with offices at 30 N. Nfichigan Ave., Chicago 2. The doctors are limiting tlicir practice to urology, according to the announcement. 
BEX SCHERER, violin virtuoso of the class, sent us a clipping from the Bridgeport (Conn.) Post of the announcement of the engagement of Dr. ^11­CHAEL R. SCULLY to Miss Mar>-Louise Mc-Quecny. Perhaps by the time this item sees print the couple will have been married, since May 15 was the date set for the wedding, the clipping states. It also points out that Mike was graduated from Columbia Medical School following his graduation from Noire Dame. His address is given as 3263 Main St., Bridgeport. Ben, who is living at 12 Orchard Ave., in Port Chester, N. Y., unfortun­ately omits any details as to his own activittes. 
Moving east again with a report on the mail, this lime it's a letter from our very wonderful, priestly classmate FATHER CRONAN (BOB) KELLY O.F.^L, in Rome. The big ticws about Cronan is that he expects to return to the United States around June 12 for a visit. He'll probably go back 
^ ^ to Rome, unless this puts the whammy on him, ^ where he's been stationed with the Procurator Gen­eral for about the past year. 
The mail having been dispensed with, I'll tr>* to recollect all the neu-s of any members of the class whom I've met or heard from over the telephone lately. First, there's JOE QUINN of Newton, N. J., and the limestone business. I met Joe in New York along about the end of January at a luncheon of the Circus of Saints & Sinners. There, too. I met GREG RICE and GEORGE KEENAN, '38, fellow Jerseyite of Joe's and mine. Joe seems to be doing ver>' well for himself in the gravel business, but so far has avoided any entangling marital alliances. I think it was Joe who told about WILFRED KIRK receiving a fellowship or scholarship to study at the Har\'ard Business School for a year or so. Will had been Grand Street branch manager for National City Bank, I believe. The scholarship award, it seems to me, was given on a competitive basis, which is darn good for an old Phy. Ed. man, what. Then, on the other horn of the dilemma you have HARRY MARR, A.B. and all that sort of thing, who is doing extremely well as a football coach. 
Speaking of doing well, did you know that MARK LONERGAN is probably the class leader in the stork derby with four kiddies, and that VINCE HARTNETT, when last heard from, was negotiating with one of the large producers to write a well­^ known radio show, one script for which had already 
'( ^ been accepted? 
JOE SCHILLING recently became associated with Robinson Brothers-Buffalo Ammonia Works, Brook­lyn, as plant manager. Formerly with E. F. Drew Co., Joe lives in East Orange with his wife and three children. Joe tells me he has bought a house in Livingston, N. J., where he »vill move shortly. 
I sat with ED HUISKING at on of the luncheons during a recent soap convention in New York, but missed Ed, and saw brother DICK instead at the big dinner of the Drug. Chemical and Allied Trades Section of the New York Board of Trade at the Waldorf in March. 
While in Baltimore during Januar>'. I had a sort of farett-eH luncheon with CY STROKER. My duties at the office have been shifted somewhat so that I don't expect to be going to Baltimore once a month to close a magazine. Cy said at that time he had hopes of a possible transfer eventually to New York, but I have heard nothing further on it from him. 
I would have spent a weekend with JOHN WAL­LACH if I had been able to join my regular re­treat group for three da>-s at Mt. Manresa, but events prevented my going, so I'll have to adopt the Brooklyn motto and "Wait 'til Next Year." 
FATHER VICTOR J. BOISVERT, C.S.C., who had been doing such fine work at St. Joseph's Hd{yf Cross Home Mission of Mississippi in Pearlington, Hancock County, Miss., returned to N.D. recently 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
The appointment of James O. Cole, ex; '34, as secretar>-of the Reconstruction Fi­nance Corp. effective March 1 was an­nounced by John D. Goodloe, chairman, in February. 
Jim's service with the RFC extends back to August, 1933, when he started in the Drainage and Irrigation Division. Bom in Peru, Ind., he is 36 years of age. He was educated in the public schools of Peru, and attended Notre Dame for three years. He completed his undergraduate work in 1935 through evening studies at George Wash­ington University. Studying law in the 
JAMES O. COLE 

evening classes of the Georgetown Law School, he was graduated in 1939 and is a member of the Bar of the District of Co­lumbia and the State of Indiana. 
Jim and his wife have four children, and make their home at Silver Spring, Md. During the war he served two years as lieu­tenant in the Navy, attached to the Office of the Secrctar>-of the Navy. 
because of ill health. Father Victor, who was grad­uated at about our time, has been assigned to light summer work in the cooler Michigan climate, after having had a throat infection cleared up and under­going a major operation. 
How about sending me a flock of letters with lots of names to help build a really impressive colimin that would be in keeping with the wonderful "new look" of the ALUMNUS. 
CLARENCE C. MCX)RE is a consultant radio engineer in Elkhart, Ind. GLENN W. RICHARD­SON is prsonnel branch manager of the Kroger Co. in Charleston, W. Va. His address is 3 Estill Drive. 
CLOYD D. SMITH, 2119 S. Setuloeda Blvd., is a consulting mechanical engineer in Los Angeles. WILLIAM E. GIBSON is investment manager of the peoples National Bank, Grand Rapids, Mich. JEROME M. DAVEY is the owner of the Bowl-Mor Grill, 306 N. Michigan St., South Bend. 
1938Hcnold A. WilUonu, 4323 Motbl* HaU BiL. Bollimor*. Md. 
K^Yeor Reunion June 4-6 

From HAL WILLIAMS: The top spot this isnie goes to PAUL HUGHES (310 Peterson Building, Flint 3, Mich.) for this letter which tvas folded around Ids contribution for the 10-year reunion fund. He writes, 
**Herc's a brief history of myself: I married a little Irish girl from Flint in 1940. We now have two girls and a boy—2, 4 and 6. Beginning in 1943, Uncle Sam had a mortgage on my life for 23 months, nine days, four hours, ten minutes and thirty seconds. I spent most of my time in the hiUs of Idaho at Farragut. I spent fi^'c years with my brother in the collection business and on Nov. 1, 1947, was appointed trustee for the Charles H. Mann estate in Flint. Our job is to mortgage proi>­erty, collect and buy land contracts, invest in bonds, etc. 
"See GEORGE McDERMOTT quite often and he says he is going to write youj but guess he is too busy. He is married, has three children and lives in Flushing, Mich., about ten miles from Flint. He travels for the Hickok Belt Co:, I also saw TEX HAGGAR and JACK MAHONEY at one of the N.D. football games last fall. Oh yes, abo bumped into GEORGE HOWARD. I see Bin> SHERWOOD occasionally; the Shcrwoods have a beautiful baby boy. .. . I would like to know DENNY EMANUEL'5 address or would appieciate hearing from him.** [Secretary's note: See below]. 
BOB LEONARD, writing from Nanticoke Acres, Seaford, Del., says, **Just a few words to let you know that I*m planning on attendii^ the reunion. I'm drivii^ out from Wilmington and I'U have room for four others besides myself. I'm writii^ to ED WRAFE and FRANK BRIGHT to ask if they want to go along. . . . Frank is practicing law in Franklin, N. J. He left the FBI about two years i^o, you know. He and Joan now have two children (a boy and a girl). BILL BRANNIGAN is in San Francisco, I hear. ED WRAFE will graduate from Harvard in June and I hear be plans to teach at Notre Dame. I am still with duPont, manufacturing nylon. We have three children—two boys and a girl, Severely Teresa, who was bom in August." 
And then came this note from JOE MOORE, "Just got back from Florida last night and the ALUMNUS was on my desk this morning. I note your appealing last paragraph so I'm enclosing a dieck. P.S. I got a letter frtHn JOHN PINAS. He can be reached care of TEX Bearing Co., Brii^eport, Conn. Quite a few of the boys have lost touch with him." Joe's address is Detroit Ball Bearing Co. of Michigan, 48-50 West Fulton St., Grand Rapids 2, Mich. 
The following day this post card arrived from JO­SEPH G. ALLI (3340 Baltimore, Indianapolis 18, Ind.), "I would like to say hello to JOE CALLA­HAN, JOE DeFRANCO and ALEC SHELLOG through your column." • 
RAY E. LONGSTRETH (928 Laurel Avenue, Zanesville, O.) writes, "In an effort to make your latest vocation, the promotion of greenbacks, a bit easier, enclosed please find the equivalent of fifty beeis (Milwaukee price quotation). Assuming that your pleading is founded on the basis of charity and further believing that charity is repud a hundred*fo!d, I'd like to warn you that I expect to see about fi\e thousand beers lined up at SWEDE BAXJER's farm—this should be a fair start for the '38 gang." 
JOHNNY Di MATTEO (509 Montgomery St., Miamisburg, O.) writes the foUowing: "At present I'm associated with my brothers in the wholesale produce business. Last January my brother CHAR­LIE, '34, and I opened the Dt Matteo Sphaghetti House here. Only periodically do I don the dieTs cap and make with the spaghetti and meat balls while Charlie manages out front. 
*'REX WEAVER, who was my roommate in Walsh Hall, is serring his first term as jui ^ of the munidpal court here, and he is doii^ a fine job. 
Rex was elected last November after having served as citj' solicitor prior to his army ser\'icc with the counter-intelligence corps. McCARTY and ARBOIT are three up on me. All I have to ofTer are two candidates for St. Mar>-'s, class of '61 and '66. Hope to see all the bo>-s at the reunion." 
Now to render a public accounting of the money that I have received for the 10 year reunion funds (some ol this w:is accounted ior In the April issue) : 
Tom MuUigan $1.00 Ray Longstreth 5.00 Joe Moore „„ _ 2.00 Tom Hutchinson 1.00 Paul Hughes „ 1.00 Johnny Di Mattco ._ 5.00 
This $15, along with my own two dollar contribu­tion, has been forwarded to JOHNNY PLOUFF. 
On April 10, DON HICKEY, chairman of the South Bend reunion committee, wrote that Plouff has received about $85 so far for expenses. Don also passed along this information: *'Dr. 'GOMER JONES' HUGHES dropped in the other day. He stopped by school to see the fifth pre-med Hughes, and then was s^'i^S o" ^^ ^^ another brother at St. Louis ^fedical School. OWEN KANE reports that he, "BABE" KELLY and GARTLAND have their wives 'sold* on the reunion weekend. MIKE 'DUTCH' 2ELLER called in .April. He is traveling for the Civic Music Company and raises and races horses during the summer." .And then, with char­acteristic modest>', Hick tacks this P.S. on his letter, *'I'm manning .Anne Jo Mullen in Los .An­geles on June 19." Congratulations, Hick. There goes one of the last of the confirmed bachelors.. 
Hick enclosed all the letters Johnny Plouff has received. 1*11 merely note the names and addresses of these unless the writer has some definite news to pass along. Here goes: 
PAUL J. LEAHY (National Drug Company ser\-­ictt representative, 527 Nortli Sandusk^' St.y TifSn, O.) • . . "'CHUCK' TERRY and I'll be there. Oh Boy!" .. . Dr. TOM HUGHES (481 East Town St., Columbus 15, O.) . . . WALT DUNCAN (914/2 Main St., Mt. Vernon, III.) . . . J. B. MAGEE (Wolverine Tube DivTsion, 416 Jackson Bldg., Buffalo, N. Y.) . . . BOB HOLTZ (Elkhart, Ind.) . . . ART MULHERN . . . BOB LeMIRE (attorney, Escanaba National Bank Bldg., Escanaba, Mich.) "My brother Dr. DON and I are making plans to attend ...". . .GEORGE W. JOHN­SON (107 West Vine, Taylor^-ille, III.) . . . JOHN O'CONNOR (attorney, 103 East Washington Bldg., Indianapolis 4, Ind.) .. . Dr. JOHN C. LUN­GRE.N (Walker Medical Group, 430 West 14th St., Long Beach 13, Calif.) . . . TED TREFZER . . . JIM CARSON (Anderson, Ind.) .. . Dr. DENNY EMANUEL (203-204 McNett Bldg., Ottumu^, la.) . . . CAS VANCE , . . ANDY PUPLIS . . ­DON CURRIER (Currier Lumber Co., Detroit) 'Til get in touch with TED TUFZER, TIM CRUICE, BILL ROBI.NSON, and a few others in Detroit and try to get them down for the reunion." 
JOHN N. POORE (4520 Gaston .Ave., Dallas, Texas) PHIL BAYER (Quaker State Oil Refining Corp., St. Mary's, W. Va.) . . . PAT a\REY (601 North Main St., Kokomo. Ind.) . . . .MIKE CROWE (2352 Adams, Indianapolis 18, Ind.) "Right now my fingers are crossed became I don't know yet if the Indianapolis News can do \Wthout my services from June 4 to the 6. Also my son and two daughters no doubt will find it hard to be fatljerless for three da>-s. Of course, tliey thrived without me for 14 months during the war." . . . LAWRENCE G. HESS (894 Sherwood Road, Charleston 4, W. Va.) "I don't believe I'll be able to :nake it, but just in case I might I am enclos­ing my contributions. FRANCIS A. KROEGER is now living at 2221 Galeta Ave., Youngstown 4, O. He is married and has a boy about 16 months old." 
Well, that's it, bo\-s. The committee is working hard and the reunion plans arc well laid. A great many of you have made plans to attend the reunion but ha\*en't come across with that initial t\vo dollars ^•et. Let's get the money in right away to the re­union treasurer, Johnny PIoufT, assistant business manager of the University. We need that money for mailing and down payments on refreshments. 
Make ""plans to attend, send in that two bucks, convince your wife that it will do you good— spiritually and ph>'sically—to attend—and then travel out to Notre Dame to see all your old friends and classmates. 
See you at the reunion! 

P.S.—When TOM HUTCHINSON sent his con­tribution along he HTote, "Hey, let's have a $100 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY 

Louis F. Buckley, '28, associate regional representative of the Social Security Boaril in Cleveland, lecturer on labor economics at Western Reserve University, and president last year of the Catholic Economic -Asso­ciation, is the current president of the Catholic Conference on Industrial Problems. 
Louie, as secretary of his class since 1928, is preparing plans for the class' 20-year re­union on June 4, 5 and 6. He has for the past 15 years been vitally interested in the Catholic Conference on Industrial Prob­lems, which endeavors to bring about a bet­ter understanding of labor and management problems. He said: 
"Although we are not able directly to solve problems of labor and management, we have been able to promote study of labor and management abuses and foster a better understanding of industrial problems . . . We will try to present the solution in the light of the Papal Encyclicals." 
Convinced that unions eventually will at­tain to the dignity of the old-time guilds, he- believes that radicals in labor are losing ground, although he says that they present a serious threat. 
"Management and labor must learn to have mutual respect and confidence. . . . The way to a solution is through reviewing labor difficulties in the light of the Papal Encyclicals, which point out to labor and management the rights and duties of each." 
Louie taught economics at Notre Dame for 10 years and at Catholic University for three years, and was a guest professor at American University in Biarritz, France. He is a director of the Alumni Association and a member of the American Economic Asso­ciation and the American Association for Labor Research. He and his wife and two children live in Euclid, near Cleveland. 
The Notre Dome Alumnus 

prize for the '38*cr who tra\-els the most miles to 
attend the reunion." Torn lives in Bend, Oregon. 
P.S. from DOOLEY: John PIoufT reports con-^ tiibutions from the following, in addition to those ^ ^ previously listed here. 
Hal Williams, Tom Mulligan, William J. Gibbons, Charles W. Duke, Don Hickey, Richard J. Hcnnessy, Louis Fox, Bud Alackin, Jack Anton, Bob Leonard, Eddie Brcnnan, Scott Reardon, Cfiarlcs Morrow, Eddie Kfann, William Clifford, John J. Gorman, Jr. 
Len Skoglund, John J. Francis, Paul Hughes, Ray Longstreth, Francis J. Kirchner, Dr. T. E. Hani­fin, Leo Boyle, Ralph McDonald, Don Smith, E. B. Bernard, George G. Howard, Jr., Tom H. Atkinson, John L. Buckley, F. J. Delaney, Jr., D. R. Fisher. 
Tom Fit^erald, Harvey Foster, R. E. Hniska, F. 
J. Solon, Jr., John Waters, John Clifford, Frank 
J. O'Laughlin, Michael Zellcr, John Di Mattco, Jim Leahy, Robert N, Laughlin, Frank A. Winninger, Dr. Robert Br^-an, Jack Moulder, Chuck Daly, Jim Carson, Charles M. Brown. 
JAMES J. REGAN, 5306 Izard St., is a cattle buj-cr in Omaha, Ncbr. He is a member of the firm of Regan, Regan and Hess. JOHN MONACO, Jr., is a major in the 15th Air Force. His home ad­dress is 1648 N. Normandy, Chicago. CHESTER A. Wn.GA is supervisor of case work of the Eric Coun­ty Probation Department, Juvenile Division- His home address is 317 Sanders Road, Buffalo 17, N. Y. 
REDMAN DUGGAN, who was vice consul at Durban, South Africa, has been transferred to Van­com-er, Canada, in the same capacity. Redman came ^ back from Africa to have a very serious eye opera-™ tion and happily has made a fine recovery. 
ROBERT W. ZELLERS is an engineer with the ChiUicotbe Paper Co., Chillicothe, O. JOSEPH L. KUHARICH has been appointed head football coach of the University of San Francisco. His address is 119 Bucareli Drive, San Francisco. 
JOHN A. SCOTT, 828 E. Jefferson Blvd., South Bend, a major in the Marine Corps resen-e, has been awarded a certificate for his work as a volunteer recruiting ofliccr. He set a record in the nation, and as chairman of the South Bend campaign helped the dty to exceed its quota. 
JOHN P. MURPHY, a teammate of EARL BROWN, new head coach of Auburn, was appointed backfield coach at Auburn. For two years John was coach at Holy Trinity High School, Chicago. 
JOSEPH R. THORNBURG is the new owner of St. Cyril Pharmacy, 7401 Harper Ave., Detroit 13. 
Lt. Comdr. JOHN P. FOX, Jr., is at the Naval Intelligence School, Naval Reviewing Station, Wash­ington, D. C. 
Not long JTO, you'll recall, the Alumni Office cooperated with the Population Reference Bureau in a sun-ey of the '23 and '38 classes regarding births. You'll be interested in the results. (For a ^ comparison with '23, see the '23 column in this 9 issue.) . 
Three hundred twenty-eight, or 68 per cent, of the cards mailed ivere returned up to March 31, when the official compilation was made. Of the 328, there were 278 who had married, and these 278 reported a total of 525 births, or an average of 1.89. Two hundred and forty-one of the 278 had had at least one birth in the family. The average number of births for the '33 men reporting at least one birth was 2.18. 
According to the sun-ey, the leaders in the class, each reporting five births, were JOHN BUCKLEY, Oak Pirk, III.,- CHUCK SWEENEY, Poniiac, Mich.; PAT McCARTY, Toledo, O.; ENNIO AR­BOIT, Peoria. HI.; MARC BALL, South Bend, PAUL LEAHY, Tiffin, O.; and JOHN O'DON­NELL, Pittsburgh. Remember we're writing only about the men who returned cards. 
{It of course ought to be reported here that early in April after the survey was comoleted, Paul Leahy went out in front in the '38 derby, accorch'ng to Alumni Office scouting reports. Paul and hit ivife now have three boys and three girls). 
The '38 men reporting four births are numerous and include: RAY MEYER, Chicago: TOM AT­KINSON, Cambridge, Mass.: CHUCK TERRY Findlay, O.: BERNIE PETERSON, Middle River Md.; JOE MOSHER, Genoa, N. Y.: DICK HEN-A ' NESSY. Indianapolis; TOM HXTTCHINSON, Bend ^ Ore.; CHUCK BOROWSKI, South Bend; JOHN JEHLE, Alton, DI.; Dr. TOM HUGHES, Colum­bus, O.; FRANK RUSSELL, Tiskilwa, HI.; FRANK MEYER, West Los Angeles, Calif.; BOB McGRATM, Oak Park, lU.; BILL GALLIN, New RocheUe, N. 
v.; JOHN BRADDOCK, Washington, D. C ; and JOHN HART, North Branford, Conn. 
1939 Vincent DeCouisey. 1917 Eliza­betii. Kansas City 2, Kansas. 
RALPH F. WACHTER is doing graduate work in the department of chemistry at Purdue Univer­sity-, Lafayette, Ind. 
VALENTINE BECKER DEALE is research as­sistant to the Secretary of Defense in the Pentagon Building, Washington, D. C. 
GEORGE H. ROSS, 1140 Fifth Ave., New York City, is an insurance underwriter in New York. 
1940 Robert G. Scmfoid. 4218 N. 17th SU Milwaukee 9, Wit. 
From BOB SANFORD: The postman was keeping our spirits up for a while, but during the lost month the letters stopped. We hope these letters which we are passing on to you at this time will inspire you to decide to "GET THAT NEWS OF CLASS OF '40 ON TO SHORTY." 
HARRY STEVENSON sends us the first news for this issue, written under the following letterhead: "Sporting Goods, Stevenson and Troy, 17 S. War­ren St., Dover, N. J." and he says: "The letter­head will save a long-winded explanation and at the same time spare you some very gruesome details. Let it suffice to say that my present field of endeavor stems from a natural aversion to hard work. It is only fair to add that this 'natural* aversion was nur­tured, polished and developed to a very high lustre after three >*ears with Uncle Sam. 
"Since *40 my personal fortunes include a very lovely wife, an astute j-oung daughter of four years (getting so I can't even fool her any longer) and last but not least, one poor, miserable Oldsmobile. 
"I see some of the guys ever>' now and then— JOE AfcKEON drops in on us here at the store, at which time I nail him for a soda. GEORGE PLAIN and HANK BORDA usually make the monthly meeting in Newark. Both George and Hank appear very prosperous. 
"I haven't been back to South Bend since '40, ex­cept for a brief glimpse from the windou3 of a troop train 'way back in 1942. I hope to make it for one of the games next fall." 
A great letter, Harr>-, please keep them coming. We all enjoy hearing from you and are looking for­ward to the next one. 
Next ive ha\e ne»-s from PHIL DONOHUE who writes: "In the service, I visited with many No­tre Dame fellows, too numerous to mention. 
"Enjo/ed a happy reunion with some golfing team­mates at Dcs ^foines during the 1947 Western Ama­teur. BILL CASTLEMAN, TOMMY SHEEHAN, and SAM NIELD were there. Missed *SHORTY' SCHALLER. my freshman year roommate. Had the pleasure of losing in the third round to Bud Ward, National-Western title holder. 
"Am in the cattle business, having spent many months in Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, Texas, and other western states during the past two years. Now I am permanently located in Sioux Falls, S. D., heading Rice Brothers Live Stock Commission. 
"Incidentally, if any pheasant or duck hunters venture out here, tell them to drop in because I never pass up a shooting party. Wonder where all the Alumni Hall second floor gang went to !!! Some of them are BUD KOTTE. JACK HACKETT, ROY PINELLI, BILL FAY, JOE RYAN and JACK PINDAR. 
"AIwa>-s glad to read your column, 'Shorty* and I hope ever>one responds to your call for news." I certainly do hope that other members of our class respond as well as you did Phil. Thank you very much for that fine letter. 
By the way, Bill Fay, as sports editor, is now writing a sports column for the weekly magazine, CoUier*s, He is certainly doing a very good job and I have enjoyed all of his articles which I have seen. 
JIM DONOGHUE started a letter on stationery of 

A. G. Becker & Co., 120 South La Salle St., Chi­cago, III. He promises to continue it soon, but for now he sa)-s: "I see TOM LLOYD quite regularly. He is paymaster at Marshall Field & Co., and is do­ing a good job of it. He is married and living in Evanston. Another member of the class in the de­partment store field is TOM LISTON. He is with Mandel Brothers, and is responsible for the proper functioning of the store on State Street. The next nearest thing to the department store field inchides TAD HARVEY, who is with Simmons Mattress Company. We saw him at lunch one day, and I almost fell over at the size of him—he has taken off a lot of weight, but still looks like he could handle himself in any situation. 
"JOHN HENEBRY, of whom I have been very proud, due to his splendid military record, is funr­tioning at Chicago Douglas Airport in his own busi­ness, called Symotive. I am not sure of the tech­nical details, but they play nursemaid to airplanes of all sizes, especially the large ones owned by the larger crorporations. John is also active in the Air Reserve, and has a responsible command. 
**TOM BARRY, ex-40, and one of your fellow townsmen, promised me several times that he would call you when he got up to Milwaukee, and that was one reason why I postponed this writing. He is with McGraw-Hill Publishing Co., and sells ad­vertising space for their electrical trade magazines. We are associated in the Marine Corps Organized Reserve in Chicago. Tom is CO . of *A* Co., and I hold down the battalion operations job. 
"I see one group of fellow? that are as close now as they were when in school. They gather every Wednesday at noon and include TOM DUFFY, a practicing attorney, JACK HUSSEY, also a lawyer, but working with Foote, Cone, & Belding, an ad­vertising firm, DICK DILLON, JACK HENNESSY and BILL GEDDES." 
Good work, Jim, I'm looking for the rest of that letter, because the part received certainly was in­teresting. That's two Donoghues heard from, we are waiting for the rest of you now. 
BOB SULLIVAN uses the stationco' of the Col­lege of Law at the University of Notre Dame to give us the following message: "As you can see, I am a member of the law faculty here at Notre Dame. In September of 1947 I forsook the practice of law in Lima, O., and returned here. Appar­ently I was not alone as our classmate GEORGE WALLACE is gracing the halls of the Commerce School as an associate professor of Finance. JOE MILLER, a combination student with a degree in Conunerce in 1941 and Law in 1942, although ac­tually one of us, is abo teaching in the Commerce School and at the same time working towards his 
C.P.A. in South Bend. Others in the combination course, who are actually men of '40, save for the oiHdal record, put in an appearance at the Army game and gave a running account of their activities since graduation. 
"ED KELLY is in Chicago doing legal work for the Mcister Brau Brewery Corporauon. JOHN SPECA, is a professor of law at Kansas City Col­lege of Law, Kansas City, Mo. JOHN KELLY, after five years in the na\y and finally receiving his law degree from Notre Dame in 1946, is practicing in Akron, O. HENRY SCHRENKER is practidng with hb brother, Paul, in Anderson, Ind. BUD BER­NARD is running his father's lumber business in Youngstown, O. 
"Now for some news of the official men of '40. LOU ZONTINI, the father of two girls, is work­ing for Thompson Products Corporation in Cleve­land. BOB GRISANTI, who went to Western Reser\'e for his latv degree is married, an expectant father, as this is uTitten, and practicing with his brother AL, Cleveland city councilman, in Clevc^ land. AL MOONEY is coaching football at a boys* school in Hartford, Conn. CHUCK RIFFLE has just completed his second year with the New Vork Yankees of the All America Conference and is liv­ing in New Jersey. CEC JORDAN is a South Bend sales representative for I.B.M. 
"JOE McKEON, father of a boy, lives in CaldwcU, 
N. J., but works for a business s^'stems concern in Jersey City. DON FOSKETT is with the diocesian paper in Hartford, Conn. GENE FEHLIG is in the construction business with bis father-in-law in Helena, Mont. 
"PAUL GLASS is vice president in charge of personnel for a mortuary chain in Los Angeles, Calif. BILL COLEMAN, who had to leave school in Sep­tember of 1939 due to the death of his father, is the father of three fine children and the president and dynamo of the Colman Petersen Corporation in Cleveland. He is well on his way to being one of the first self-nude men of the class of 1940. LEO SANTINI is with his father in the moving and storage business in New York City. WAYNE WAHL is a sales representative for I.B.M. in Soath Bend. JOE THESING is doing personnel work for Chev-n^t in tbnr plant south of Chicago. BUD KERR is football coach at the University of Denver, Den­ver, Colo. 
**I am here at Notre Dame specializing in Cor­poration Law and taxation. The work here is keep-ii^ me busy, but with three children and living in Niles, Mich., it's a merry-go-round." 
Sully, let me tell you that it is men like you who make my duties as class secretary an easy job. We certainly appreciate your exceptional letter and are lookii^ fonrard to your next one. Thanks a million. Bob, you certainly have contributed well to thu ct^ umn. 
Out east to 62 Lewis Road, Merrick, L. L, N. Y., where RED MARTIN of track fame is now livii^. Red has this to say: "To bring you up to date on myself I started out at Fordham Law School after I left Notre Dame. Got through a year and two thirds before I was called to active duty with the Navy. Went to indoctrination school in the first dass at Notre Dame, csme back to New York and yns commissioned in August of 1942- Spent another four years here and there in the Pacific and ended up as a lieutenant commnnder in Washington, D. C After being separated I returned to Law School and wai graduated last June, have been admitted and am now practicing in the legal department of the Preferred Accident Insurance Co. of New York. 
"After separation from the Navy I was married to Rita E. Cordts of Jamacia, N. Y., and we spent our honeymoon—my eighty-five days terminal leave— touring 'he U. S. and Canada. Have' now settled down in our own home in Merrick, L. I. and dreaming of ways to make enough money to send my son—a ten-month-old red head—to Notre Dame. 
"Get around to the New York Alumni Club meet­ings and have picked up the follovnng information: ED BADDOUR, a southerner, has come north* and is now working here in the dty; JIM ROGERS is still with the FBI and doing swell; TOM FORD recently finished Harvard Law School and is now with some large N. Y. law firm; JOE MANGANO is getting slimmer e\ery day; JIM CAWLEY is work­ing on the editorial staff of Haire Publications and supporting a ^unily; ED FULHAM recently arrived in N. Y. to work for Chase National Bank, has giv­en up newspaper work ff>r this advertising job; PETE REILLY was in my class when I started back in 1940, but he came home a little sooner and therefore was able to get practicing law with a firm here in the dty. 
"My roommate DOUG BANGERT—Major Bang­ert—is still in the Marines. As you probably read he did a fine job during the war. Helped sink a battle­ship, was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross, and ended up with command of his own TBF squad­ron at Okinawa. He has since commanded a fighter squadron and only recently finished a special train­ing course at Quantico. He is now assigned to the Amphibious Force of the Atbntic Fleet as aircraft support officer. He's married, has two children, a jirl and a boy. 
"CURT HESTER was back east last summer and came up to New York for a couple of rushed v^ts. He was in training at the FBI schfwl at Quandco. He finished training in August and has since been assigned to Butte, Mont., and reports he is get­ting along in great style. GREG RICE, '39, was televised last Saturday night at the New York A. C track meet. In fact he broadcast the two-mile run in which my kid brother FRANK, ex *46, ran third. Greg is still with the Marx Toy Co. and en­joys his work. Frank tells me that CHARLIE PA­TERNO is a resident at the hospital where he trains. 
"What ever happened to TED JOCHEMS? I sup­pose ED MCLAUGHLIN is around these parts now, althoi^h I ha\-en't seen him." 
Thanks very much Red, a marvelous job, we are pleased, make us pleased again real soon. 
The last letter for this issue—sorry there aren't more, but I am looking for a big response to this plea—comes from JOE LARKIN. Joe has this to say: "My story since that memorable graduation day in June of 1940 reads as many others. Into service in 1940 (U.S.N.), out in 1945. I found time to journey to the chapel at Notre Dame in 1942 where FATHER BRENNAN married us. In August 1943 I acquired a son, J. W., Jr." 
Joe continues: "Now for the part where your eyes pop. On March 1, 1946 my wife, Elizabeth, gav-e birth to twin bo>'s, named Frankie and Teddy after my two brothers. On March 4, 1947 we dupli­cated the above performance with another set of twins, this'lime a boy, James Arthur, and a girl, Jane Ann. Thus, Notre Dame is assured of fine backfield material about 1960, plus one contribution to St. Marj-*s. 
'*I am engaged with my father in the sale of heav-v- construction machinerj- in central Penns\-K-ania area, with headquarters in Harrisburg. L.ater w*e hope to manufacture machinery*. 

"You mentioned CLIP LECHTER (Washington office FBI) in the ALUMNUS column. Cliff is now-associated uith our outfit. He has a charming wife and two husk>* boj-s. 
"Saw BILL SYRING in Washington a couple of times. He is planning to practice law on his own. Often wonder about mv old roommate BUD GENT­-VER and TONY MALLECK and JOE AfAN.VIX, don't these fellows ever send any news?'* 
I hope these fellow's take example from you, Joe, and ]et the rest of us know about themselves. You Certainly rate a good nod, and I'm sure you are ver>' happy with your fine family. Please send any more news along as soon as you hear about it. Thanks for a great letter, Joe. 
Xo more letters to pass on at this time, but I ex­pect the rest of you to furnish me with some material for this column. Saw TED BRUSH the other day, but he was so bus\" with his own engineering con­sultant business that he didn^t have time to tell me what to say about him. I have recently acquired the title of Certified Public .Accountant and have man­aged to keep verv- busy this past income tax time. 
Let me leave each and ever>- one of you with this one inspiring thought: 
MEN OF '40 GET TH.AT NEWS TO SHORTY 
JOCK HENEBRY, who was a colonel command­ing the 73rd bombardment wing, air force reserve, has been upped to a brigadier general in the re­serve forces. 
WALTER C. HAGEN, Jr., is general sales agent at a Dodge and PljTuouth agenc>' in Richmond, Va. His address is 3220 Griffin .A\-e. " 
EDWARD F. 0'MEAR.A is the editor and part owner of a weekly newspaper in Livermore, Calif. He receives his mail at P.O. Box 31. 
BENN\ SHERID.\ N has resigned as business man­ager of the South Bend Blue Sox, a girls' profes­sional ball team, to enter a local business project. 
EDWARD P. WURTZEBACH, who for the last two years was media director of an advertising and public relations agency in South Bend, has joined the Chicago office of Young & Rubicam, Inc., as a space buyer. 
Dr. HOW.ARD A. KLEIN has started practicing medicine in Detroit. His address is 4881 Kensington, Detroit 24, 
JOHN D, GAV^AN has taken a position with Remington Rand. Inc., in Milwaukee, Wis. His ad­dress is 3121 S. Taylor .Ave., Milwaukee 7, 
JOHN J. REDDY, who has been working at the .Atomic Bomb Laboratories at Los Alamos, N. M., for the past two years, is office manager of the Zia Co., a contracting firm working for the Atomic Encrg>- Commission. 
1941 John W. Patterson, Jr., 5S30 Dar­lington Rd.. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
GEORGE T. O'COSSOR has been named man­ager of the life insurance department of the W. F. Souder, Jr. general agenc\- for the Continental As­surance Company in Indianapolis. 
WIILIAM J. SYRING is practicing law in To­ledo, O. His address is 518 Jefferson .Ave., Toledo 4. 
J.AMES L. TEAGARDEN. of 155 E. Water St., is a sales representative for the J. W^eller Co. in Oak Harbor, O, 
JOHN R, STEIDL is a pilot for United .Air Lines. His home address is 313 Lorraine Rd., Wheaton, HI. 
JOSEPH C.-\RR received a law degree from Co­lumbia University last Februarj*. Joe had a phenom­enal scholastic record—nearly all A's. 
William £. Scanlan, Pullman Sav­1942 ings Trust & Savings Bonk. 400 
E. lUth St., Chicago, 28. 

From BILL SCANLAN: It's great to see some of the '42-ers taking a vital role in heading Notre Dame clubs around the coun­try-. No less than five presidents of clubs were in our class. Take a bow: FLOYD (SLUSH) RICHARDS. radio station WTtC's gift to Hartford, Conn. JOHN HOELSCHER, Buffalo, N. Y.; BILL WILSON, Blue Water District around Port Huron, Mich.; BILL HOYNE, Dayton, O.; and JOHN MALONE, Toledo. 
From STEVE GRALIKER of Decatur, 111., comes this: "What's happened to the Class of '42? No news is good news is consoling, but very DULL. The latest I've got is the engagement of Mary Ellen O'Conncr of Winnetka, 111., to JAMES F. McNULTY, Jr., of Chicago. They plan to be mar­ried in the fall. The ^BarrcU' contends he had the situation well in hand, but no matter how you hear it, it's still Leap Year. 
"While in Chicago not long ago JIM McNULTY, JOE ILARTGES, '39. and I saw BILL STURBITS ascending an escalator. He waved hesitantly and made the next one down to see who it was. Also visited WALLY KELLY, '43. and his family. Under­stand BYRON KANALEY, Jr., "broke in" a new Cadillac sedan en route to Florida this winter. I was mddly surprised to receive word of NEIL Mc-CARTY's marriage in Februar>*. I was confident I had a comrade in arms for at least a vcar. 
"While driving to the N.D.-Na\-y game Jast Octo­ber I was detoured into a hospital for about 10 da>-s in Belle\'ue, O. My only regret is that I cr.n't remember listening to the game the ni^ct djy. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER P. McCOURT. Jr., and 'MA­MA" CL.ARK drove over from .Akron one evening. Next day the hospital authorities asked the medicos if I weren't able to travel. En route to the Army game, Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD DUNL.AVY stepped for a visit. The 'Big E' is still the 'Bigijest.' I sec JIM McGR.ATH. '41. JIM McROBERTS, '40, and JOE PEDAUCCL '39, quit often, otherwise I ha\-e little ne\%'s from Notre Damers except L.AWRENCE 
F. HICKEY. LARRY and BUDDY CONCANNON rounded out the .Army weekend with a t:ip to De­catur. .After talking to the 'Biggest* thry expected to find me just this side of CaK-ar^- Ccmeter>% 
"I'm still wondering what happened to ED MAN­GELSDORF, LARRY KELLY and HARRY BEAL. They must be tr\-ing to wxile those letters under­water." 
Nice going, Steve. 
While dashing for an L C. at the Randolph St. station in Chicago recently, I ran into ANDY GORKA. He's with Kraft Foods, as an electrical engineer. He's married and that night he came over to Pullman Bank—that's where I'm hold­ing forth now in the advertising dept. Andy had with him .Andy HI. Andy's Na\-\- career sent him to Cornell for a spell and there he ran into LARRY KELLY, PAUL LILLIS and TRUK SHUREK. He also hears from BOB HEIL occasionally. Bob heads a Coca Cola firm in the big town of Urichvillc, O. It's near Denison. 
In addition to Cornell, Andv also spent some time at M.I.T. and Harx^rd. He also sees JOHN GIL­BERT, Caterpillar Tractor Co., Peoria, once in a while, and DON FIEGEL. While stationed at Mare Island. Calif., where he was married, Andy bumped into TO M GESELBRACHT, a ship designer. Tom was best man at .Andy's wedding. 
It's a bit late but last fall I was best man at GEORGE UHL's wedding. It was a fine example of the \-alue of direct mail advertising. George is now one of Sinclair Oil's engineers and found a home in East Chicago for the new Mrs. in short order. PAUL DERRY came over for the wedding, in Chi­cago. He uas with the Eli Lilly Co., pharmaceuticals. 
JACK DINGES is currently with the Swift Co., advertising dept., in Chicago. He reports that BILL BAADER has an art studio on Chicago's north side» that JOE PALMER was last heard from m Califor­nia, that JOHN GRIFFIN works in Kansas City, that TOM KAUFMAN and NORM VAN SICKLE are also Californians, that BILL KIRBY was an .Army MP, Dinges recently left the ilinsdale DmngSf a weekly neu-spaper, for the Windy City and Swifts. 
TOM POWERS is currently one of ARCH WARD' S aides on the Chicago Tribune's sports .-m staff but he found time to round up a nifty New j [ York Daily News hem on Detecti\-e JIM BURKE. It was all about the stories of several New York policemen and their sons following in their footsteps. Here's the News' comment on the Burkes: 
"James Burke fooled his dad, Capt. Patrick Burke, attached to Traffic C. Jim went to Notre Dame, was graduated—and then came back to enter the force. He now is a third-grade detective, but he also is waiting to see that sergeants' list. 
"Young Burke is a newcomer, having been on the force for only three years. But for a time he \%-as wearing another uniform—Uncle Sam's. .As a waist gunner on a B-29 he earned the DSC and an Air Medal with three clusters." 
So there you have it, and let's get back into a corresponding state of affairs. Remember, 
IF IT'S NEWS, WRITE SCOOP. 

From Mrs. LORA L.ASHBROOK: 
This is a "command performance" ordered by Mr. SCANLAN from his office in the Pullman Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago. My compliance is not so much a tribute to his executive ability as it is an excuse for me to indulge in my favorite oc­cupation—talking about the Notre Dame law\-crs. 
JIM McGOLDRICK recently passed the New York bar examinations and is engaged in practice in ­New York City. ROC MONTEGN.A is practicing in m Chicago. Occasionally we get some current ne\%-s from him through his brother. JOE. who is a Ju­nior in the law school now. BILL MOONEY has left the FBI and opened an office for pr:ictice in Iowa, JERRY O'DQWD is practicing in Ft, Wavne, Ind. BOB RICHARDSON has also left the FBI and recently applied for admission to the North Caro­lina bar. He expects to practice in Lumberton. K­
C. where he was stationed for a time with the FBI. 
AL CHOLIS is attorney for the OPA in South Bend and was on the campus last week escorting a \-ery lovely j-oung lady. JOHxN VERDO.NK was elected prosecuting attorney for his home county in Michigan last election. 
LOUIE ANDERSON is practicing in South Bend 
in the office of which Congre«man GR.AN"r is a partner. JOE B.ARR recently made headlines when he was appointed assistant state's attorney for his district in Illinois. The Barr*s added a baby daugh­ter to the family not too long ago, making three for Joe. JIM D.ANER is practicing in Mt. Clim-ens, Mich. JIM DIVER is connected with the Fed­eral Court in Indianapolis, according to a front page story in the Indianapolis papers. TED FRE­RICKS is practicing in Marion, O. Ted's brother, AL, is in law school now. BILL HOSINSKI is a familiar figure around the court house these da\-s, and is apparently doing a good practice. ^ 
JOE LAVERY is in Quino% III. TI.M M.AHER is living and practicing in Pittsburgh, Pa. The Mahcr's recently became parents of a baby girl. LEO LINCK is in practice at Muskegon, Mich. TO M CALN's activities in Niles, Mich., make the newspapers ever>* day or two. .Among other things he is Justice of the Peace there. 
JIM X£U has an important job as attorney for the Columbia Broadcasting 5>'stem with offices in the Earle Building in Washington. You will remem­ber that Jim went to New York as attorney for the CBS and left to enter the Army. Upon his re­turn he was assigned to the Washington office. 
Among those of the class of 1942 who have re­cently graduated from the law school or who are presently in law school are GERRY SHE.A, JACK FINMGAN, LOU CARUSO, GRAHAM McGOW-AN, FRED McMAHON, HERB MELTON, SAM MOLTER, TON^ GIRALOMI, MIKE and JIM GODFREY, NICK PAPP.AS, VAIL PISCHKE, JACK RYAN, NICK VILLAROSA, JACK BARRY, JOHN WUERTZ, and TOM MITCHELL . 
THOMAS A. W.ALSH, Jr., 9300 Dodge St., is in th'e paper manufacturing business in Omaha, Nebr. 
Capt. JOHN A. SHEEDY, who is with the Army Medical Corps, is stationed at 120th Station Hos-^ pital, Bayreuth, Germany. His APO is 696-6, New ^ York City. 
DONALD F. McGINLEY, who %vas married to E\'aleen Afueller in Ogallala, Nebr., last Dec. 27, is attending law school at Georgetown University. 
Dr. NICHOLAS S. GULYASSY received a medi­cal degree from the Loyota University, Chicago, School of Medicine last March 27. 
BERNIE CRIMMINS lost the distinction of being the only bachelor on the N.D. coaching staff. He was married last Feb. 7 in Louisville, Ky. 
CHARLES M. KEARNEY received a degree from the Duke University School of Law last February. GEORGE C. CROWLEY has been appointed de­signing engineer of the General Electric automatic blanket and sunlamp division in Bridgeport, Conn. 
MALCOLM V. T. WALLACE is in the graduate school of Har\*ard University. His address is 25 Harx-ard Way Extension, Cambridge 63, Mass. DAV­ID C. BAGLEY is in law school at Catholic Uni­versity. His address is 3960 Tunlaw Rd., N.W., Washington 7, D. C. 
JOHN C. GROEGER is teaching English, German and Spanish at the University of Portland. His ad­dress is 2534 S.E. 35th Ave., Portland 2, Ore. 
CHARLES H. DEGER, who died on Feb. 20, 1944, while in na\-al ser\*ice and was buried in Ips­wich, Australia, is now at rest in Dayton, O. 
The body arrived in the United States on the "Cardinal O'Donnell," which docked on Feb. U. The funeral services in Dayton were in charge of the Naval Reser\'es, which provided an honor guard of 20 men at the funeral home, ten of whom were on guard all of the time. A firing srjuad of 10 men and a representative of the admiral flew from Co­lumbus to be present at the funeral. 
WESTON COLLEGE WESTON 93, MASS. Feast of S. P. Canisius DEAR SCOOP: 
I'm Matty B>Tnc's brother. I know you could not forget Matt. I am 5 years older than Matt. With the grace of God I am to be ordained this June 19th at Weston. Matt will be in Heaven exactly 5 and a half years that day. He made the supreme sacri6ce Dec 19th. I shall sing my first Solemn Mass Sunday, June 27th, at Our Lady of Mercy-Church, Bronx, N. Y., at 11 a. m. I invited JOE POWERS, C.S.C., to act as sub-deacon but he couldn't make it or at least he couldn't say yes when I asked htm. My Reception is at Bishop Hall, Ford­ham University. Matt's mother, dad, and sis and I would be thrilled to greet Matty's friends that day. I shall be eternally gratefully to you. Scoop, if you mentioned these facts in your column. I correspond with the families of Cy Miller, Jack Whelan, Tom Banigan. Charlie Tobin and I have gotten together. Saw Vince Daigler and ? Fallon while I was teaching at Canisius High School, Buffa­lo. Have attempted in \"ain to contact McCarty at Harvard and Grady of Holyoke. Although my alma mater is Fordham I am notorious among my re­ligious brothers for my love of ND. 
God bless you, Scoop. ^Vrite, please, if you have 

time. Keep me in your prayers during this last 
l-8th mile. 
Sincerely in the Sacred Heart of Jesus, TOMAfY B. 

1943 
Edward C. Honey, 1723 Iroquois Ave., Detroit, BCch. 
5-Year Reunion 
June 4-6 

From ED RONEY: SY/ATR SY/ATR. Yes. nine out of ten men who have made a S^otre Dame reunion say, "See you/at the Reunion!" 
The big news this issue is our Five-Year Jubilee Reunion from June 4 to 6. Plans arc about com­pleted to make it the biggest and best ever. You've all received a letter from President JACK TAL­LET and you cither have received or will soon re­ceive reservation cards from PETE MORITZ. Even at this comparatively early date in mid-April, it looks like a big majority of the class will be there. 
Report of Class Giving Fifth Alumni Fund. 1947 
Cla!a  Amount  No. Contr  No. in Class  % Contr.  
To 1900  $ 3,934.00  47  170  27.6  
1900-1905  4,120.00  66  141  46.8  
1906-1909  15,632.00  36  144  38.8  
1910  1,507.00  20  37  54.0  
191t  1,774.00  39  75  52.0  
1912  5,295.00  37  67  55.2  
1913  1,831.00  28  50  56.0  
1914  6,043.00  46  100  46.0  
1913  3,334.00  38  82  46.3  
1916  1,245.00  37  79  46.8  
1917  5,502.00  59  116  50.8  
1918  1,102.00  42  72  58.3  
1919  10,923.00  32  68  47.2  
1920  1,229.00  49  95  51.5  
1921  2,172.00  65  119  54.7  
1922  2,756.00  118  181  65.1  
1923  2,132.00  101  209  48.3  
1924  2,290.00  114  180  633  
1923  3,999.00  176  313  56.2  
1926  13,176.00  147  269  50.9  
1927  3,236.00  202  374  54.2  
1928  3,901.00  231  433  53.3  
1923  5,010.00  228  445  51.2  
1930  6.490.00  248  472  52J  
1931  3,884.00  277  489  56.6  
1932  7,272.00  276  499  55.3  
1933  6,179.00  297  510  58.2  
1934  8,673.00  299  515  58.0  
1933  6.229.00  282  482  583  
1936  2,691.00  238  410  58.0  
1937  3,089.00  266  449  59.2  
1938  2,960.00  278  483  57J  
1939  3,829.00  338  557  60.6  
1940  4,810.00  379  670  56.5  
1941  31,568.00  389  618  62.7  
1942  3,321.00  370  569  65.0  
1943  4,550.00  381  535  71.2  
1944  3,339.00  376  503  74.7  
1945  3,062.00  257  343  74.8  
1946  2,150.00  235  321  73.2  
1947  106,570.00  486  722  67J  
1948  246.00  41  
1949  40.00  10  
1950  76.00  15  
1951  260.00  60  

X. D. Clubs 
& 

Anonj-mous 32,582.00 Total 346,013.00 7887 2,966 61 
Thb issue of the .-VLUMNUS will contain the overall program. Any of the fellows that were there the last two years can tell you how good that really is. But, as for M3's particular plans, PETE and HERB MELTON have been working hard and the schedule reads something like this: 
A big party, get-together, bull-session, etc. at the Indiana Club Friday night will ofTidally open our own portion of the fun. Herb and his committee have spent a good deal of time making arrangements for this and promise a real blow-out at low cost. Saturday night is the occasion of the general Alum­ni Association banquet but after that another, more informal, party is planned. 
Sunday, and in a more serious vein, the class will be privileged to attend a Mass said by one of our own classmates for the deceased of our class and the next one of us to die. This should be a popular activity as many have requested it, and M3 has lost over 10 per cent of its men since graduation. 
We'll of course all be housed in one spot'on the campus. 
Other things popping up are an answer to a chal­lenge from one of the other classes to a softball game Saturday afternoon; swimming in St. Joe's for the more hardy; plenty of reminiscing with old profs and deans; and looking at the gang's pictures of the one-and-only and junior . 
One thing can be guaranteed—everyone will have plenty of fun and will never forget those three days. So make your reser\*ation now, if j-ou haven't al­ready, and plan on getting there as early as possible. If you must miss Friday, don't count yourself out; there'll still be two days left. 
Other news this month that would ordinarilr take top billing but 1$ pushed to the second page by the reunion is the arrival of a new meml)cr of the dass of '69, BLAIR JUDE McGOWAN. Jean and Blair now have a girl and hay and, Blair, Sr., pramiscs to have pictures of both to show BOB MORRILL and the rest of us at the reunion. 
JACK O'NEIL is %trorking for Carrier Corp. as an engineer in the service department. JOHN D. HUNT is a reporter in the New Y(»k bureau of the United Pkess. His home address is 151 QJumbia Heights. Brooklyn 2, N. Y. JAMES J. FENNEL, of 298 Nelson Ave., Saratoga Springs, N. Y., is a chemical engineer with Esse Standard Oil Co., Lin­den, N. J. HARRY J. MCKNIGHT, jr., is an office salesman for Graybar Electric Co., Norfolk, Va. His address is 400 Maycox Ave. 
GEORGE A. COPPIN, of 17120 Via Cielo, San Lorenzo, CaliL, is a flight engineer with Pan American World Airways. ROBERT H. KERNQ. HAN is a vocational counselor in Columbus, O., at 20 S. Third St., Room 228. GEORGE J. BOT­WINICK is an accountant with Leval & Co., 2 Broadway, New York, N. Y. 
Dr. THOMAS M. SPENCER is an osteopathic physician and surgeon and is practicing in North Long Beach, Calif. His home address is 2217 Eu­clid Ave., Long Beach. 
Solemn Reqm'em Mass for Lt. CHARLES T. LEWIS, who was killed in action in France in Tth­ruary, 1943, was stmg in St. Martin's Churdi, Philadelphia, on April 17, and he was buried in St. Dominic's Cemetery. He was a member of the Medical Detachment, 501st Paratroop Infantry, 101st ^Urborne Division. 
I^lbearers were from the Charles "Buddy" Lewis Post No. 5343, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Villas, 
N. J., which was named Tor him. Members of the Philadelphia Notre Dame Club, of which Char­lie was a member, attended the funeral Mass in a body. 
 iTnch, 15721 GranvUIe 1944 John A. 

RtL. Detroit 23. BiGcli. 

From JOHN LYNCH: Dr. DANIEL J. ROURKE is at St. Peter's Hos­pital, Albany, N. Y., and not practicing in Green­wich N. Y., his home town, as the February column reported. 
Dan wrote on Feb. 28: 
'^Graduated from Georgetown Med. in June, 1947. BILL RABBETT and VINCE MURPHY, both of '45, were in my class. Rabbctt is married and in­terning in St. Vincent's, New York City, and Mur­phy is at Georgetown Hospital in Washington. I am still in my internship at St. Peter's and expect to go on from here for more training. 
"Was back this past fall for the Army game, but stayed in Chic<^o. Was only at school long enough to see the game and get back to Chi. Saw a lot of familiar faces around the Stevens. . . . Expect to go to New York this Monday afternoon for the 
N.Y.U. game at the Garden." 
BILL SCHEUCH has come up with a new ad­dress. This time it's 2064 Hermosa Avenue, Hennosa Beach, Calif. Bill was married last ^b y 3 to Betty Ho\\3 of Clex-eland. 
March 14 he wrote: 
"Just received the latest ALUHNtjs and noted that the class of '44 has become pretty skimpy in their correspondence. Hope this hdps. Of course I have been lax myself—have been meaning to write people Hke KEN BROWN, MIKE MALLOY and JOE FIEWEGER, but somehow the weeks fall into months. 
"Took in the Southern Cal game here last De­cember and what a happy day it was. Really a good bunch, but I still like BERTELLI, C. MIL­LER & Co. of '43. It was the only time I have seen the Irish since graduation. 
"See \ezy few Notre Dame men out here—but I have not been active in the club as yet. IJope to one of these days." 
"BLACK JOHN" MURPHY has gone East again, after a position in Hammond, Ind. He is now with the Charles FGxtr and Co., Manufacturii^ Chen^sts, Brooklyn, N. Y., as a persoimel assistant. Ag and Johnnie, HI, of course, are with him. 
The news from Murph on April 6: 

"Big Universal Xoirc Dame Night at Jake Rup­pcrt's famous brewcr>" here in New York: ED DOWLING was there, along with many friends I haven't seen for rears. JERRY GAFFNEY. BILL ROGERS, JACK SULLIVAN. BILL 'PEEKSKILL' O'CONNOR, BILL TALBOT. JERRY BROWN, JACK FALLON, BERNIE RUTLEDGE and scores more were on tap. 
**The defeat of N.Y.U. was cnjo\-cd by all true and subway alumni. O'SHEA and company were brilliant. The spirit? It was there all the way! 
"Announcements from the J.-\MES LLOYDS of Chicago, and AL YOUNGH.\US' of Fort Wayne, tell of early March arri\-als in their homes." 
Murph adds a note that he would like to hear from ERNIE SEDLM.AYR. !RED JOHN' MUR­PHY, MICKEY FI.N.V, BILL O'BRIEN, 'RED BILL' MURPHY' and the other classmates who owe him mail. Murph can be reached at 585 Isham St.. New York 34, N. Y. 
Ens. LARRY ST.AHL is now at Treasure Island, San Francisco, in electronics school. Larr>' has in­formed us of the death of Ens. WALT BARRY, who was killed in flight training March 8 at Pcnsa­cola, Fla. 
DICK BORGESS of Chicago \ras married Jan. 31 to Patricia McLcllan, former St. Mark's student. 
Mr. Douglas Grant has informed the ALUMNUS that the body of his son DICK GRANT, who was killed in action in France on Nov. 23. 1944, arrived in New York on April L The body was interred in St. Joseph's ccmeter>% Freeport. III. Mr. Grant requests that the monogram men who played base­ball with Dick in 1943, as well as the other members of the class, remember Dick in their prayers. 
THOMAS J. CON.-\T\' is enrolled in the Med­ical College of Virginia. His address is 1411 Fifth Ave., Huntington, W. Va. 
BERNARD J. GHIGLIERI is stud>-ing law at Georgetown University. Washington, D. C. THEO­DORE T. TOOLE, Jr., is a buyer for Blooming­dale Brothers, Lexington and 59th Sts., New York. 
N. Y. THOMAS J. McCARTY has joined the Trappist Order and is at New Melleray Abbey, Peosta, la. 
WILLIAM A. REMPE. who studied at Notre Dame for three years, received a B.S. from Loyola University, Chicago, on Feb. 3. ARTHUR W. FELTES received a master's degree in business ad­minbtration from the University of Chicago last March. THOM.-VS SHELLWORTH. of Portland, Ore., also received a master's degree in March, from Stanford University. 
THOMAS A. COSTELLO is a salesman in Chi­cago. His home address is 316 .Ash St., Cr>-stal Lake, III. THOM-AS P. NOLAN is in the road con­struction business in Minncaj»oIis, Minn. His ad­dress is 4254 Hariert Ave., Minneapolis 9. NOR­BERT D. LEWANDOWSKI has resumed his studies at N.D. after serving in the Army. 
HARRY LAVERY, Chicago, received a law de­gree from Columbia University last Februar>'. GER­ALD F. HOG.AN has a men's clothing store at 828 Main St., Duranga, Colo. 
IQ^C James W. SchaeHer, P.O. Box 
•'^' 369, Schenedady. N. Y. 
Dr. THOMAS C. PUCHNER is practicing medi­cine in W^auwatosa. Wis. His home address is 9719 Harding Blvd. FREDERICK J. BIGGS is employed in the ~ distribution department of Bendix Home .Appliance Corp., South Bend. His home address is 706/2 E. LaSalle Ave. 
LOUIS F. LAUTH. Jr., of 1126 Hageman .Ave., is a grocer buyer for the Bennet Tea Co. in Buriington, la. Lt. OLINDO WILLIAM ROS.A­NELLI is serving with the Army Medical Corps at Madigan General Hospital, .Annex No. 1, Ward No. 4, Fort Leuis, Wash. 
DAVID D. SLATTERY, of 2702 Wisconsin Ave., N.W., Washington, D. C, is a reporter on the Washington Daily Nezvs. H.ARRY WALTERS re­ceived a law degree from Columbia University last Fcbruarj-. J. JOSEPH T. SHEA is a salesman with the Ohio Ball Bearing Co., Elj-ria Ave., Lorain, O. THOiL\S P. BERGIN is an instructor at Notre Dame. 
1946 
JOE BRESLAW, of 1538 Utica St., Denver, Colo., is employed as a mechanical engineer. 
Dr. JAMES F. DOUGHERTY received his M.D. from the University of Rochester's School of Medi­cine and Denti5tr>- on March 27. Another who was awarded an M.D., on March 29, is Dr. JOHN E. MURPHY, by the Loyola University School of Med­icine, Chicago. 
ARTHUR R. KERNEN, Jr., is a junior research chemist with Petroleum Chemicals Lab, Chambers Work, Dcepwatcr Point, N. J. 
EARL F. GLENN, Jr., is stud>ing law at the University of Arizona, in Tucson. 
FR.ANK RUGGIERO, the proud father of a ycar­old-son, wrote in to inquire about the whereabouts of LOU aAPPUCCI and JIM KING. The ALUMNUS can help out on Cappucci's address—it's 117 Canner St., New Haven 11, Conn.—but there are three Jim Kings listed in the alumni files. 
J.ACK STEWART, %vho resigned from the Foreign Service to help with a General Motors franchise in Garden City, Kans., reports that he ran into JACK TEXGE in Kansas City, and has heard from LEE "TEX" SHIPP, who expects to take the Texas bar exam in the near future. 
Dr. SAMUEL W. ROWBOTTOM is practicing medicine in Kent, Wash. 
WILLIAM J. C.ASSIDY is a senior at the JefTcp­son Medical School, 1025 Walnut St., Philadelphia. 
Dr. AN'TOHNY J. PIZZARELLI is practicing in New York. His address is 345 ^V. 50th St., New Yoik 19. 
tOAf J-1>. Usina, 219 S. ScoH SU South ''^ ' Bend, Ind. 
From J. D. USI.VA: After ten months of class reporting it is real encouragement to receive TWO letters the same day from members of our class who break their silence with some swell reports. JIM SHERID.AN, 172 Mill Spring Road, Manhasset, L. I., had this to say: 
^'Thought you might be interested in knowing that we New Yorkers manage to get together more than just for N.D. club meetings . . . weekend of Feb. 28 found several of us huddled in a trail lodge in Peekskill, N. Y., w^iiting for the weather to break . . . fireplace burned eight-foot logs like toothpicJts . . . among those present were JIM ATKINSON, LEN HART, KEVIN CARLEY, GEORGE BAR5A, ED BUDDOW, '40, JOE MALONO. . . . After the N.Y.U. game we had another get-together at Joe King's—the old German-American Club . . . ART MURPHY, JOE DEITTRICH, JACK DIL­LON and CH.ARLEY KEOGLER. . . . E\-er>thing is going along pretty well. Majoring in English is great groundwork for selling of real estate." 
Thanks very much, Jim, and good luck pushing that real estate. The other letter was from JIM MURPHY, E\-anston, III., who is working in the ABC newsroom in Chicago while working tou'ards a master's degree in journalism at Northwestern. Murph passes along: 
"DAVE KORTY is with the Lafayette Loan and Trust Co., Lafayette, Ind. . . . studying in the graduate school of economics at Yale is CHUCK MONTRIE. . . . JIM KELLY is attached to the United Nations Affairs division of the State De­partment in Washington, D. C." 
We ^von't mind a regular letter-a-month Jim. Sec if you can keep it up. 
And from HARRY GILLIGAN, Jr., Cincinnati, we get some neu-s about the marriage of his brother FRANK GILLIGAN to Patricia Frances Hamer in early Januarj'. Ushers and guests included JOHN GILLIGAN, DAVE CHAMPION, JOHN DER­RICK, ED BALL, JOHN CARON, HENRY SLA­MIN, GENE GILES, BOB SXEE and Harry. Seems it was quite an affair with the "Ye Delicate Fel­lows" in their usual glor>'. 
Last night I saw JIM GRIFFIN who was in town from Chicago where he is with Kenyon and Eck­hart, advertising. 
We had a "pathetic plea" in last issue for news from the silent members of the class of 1947. PLEASE speak up with some contribution! 
EMIL SLOVAK, who was coaching at Punahou School in Hawaii, has resigned to accept a position with Lewers and Cook, Ltd.. in Honolulu. His ad-^ dress is 2390 Koa Ave., Honolulu, Territory of ^ Hawaii. 
ANGELO BERTELLI is completely recovered from the knee injury which kept him sidelined all last season. Bert, whose knee was operated on last fall, strengthened the knee by ice skating every day during the winter and will be ready to go when ED McKEEVER calls his Chicago Rockets pro foot­ball team together next summer. Bertelli opened a pretentious sports good store in his home town, West Springfield, Mass., during the winter. 
FRANTC C. VENNER, whose studies were inter­rupted by ser\"ice in the Army, has returned to No­tre Dame and is residing in Ca\*anaugh Hall. 
When two National League professional basketball teams met in South Bend on March 4. two Notre Dame men were pitted against each other. JOHN 
R. NIEMEIRA, playing for the world champion Fort Wa>-ne, Ind., Zollner Pistons, met EDDIE RISKA, '41, of the Oshkosh, Wis., .All-Stars. 
PAUL BROTEN is employed as a mechanical en­gineer in Lockport, N. Y. His home address is 279 Caledonia St. 
JOHNNY DEE has signed a three-year contract to coach football and basketball at St. ^feI High School in Chicago. ED STELMASZEK, '46, will be his as­sistant. 
JOHN F. MAHER, who is with the Foreign Ser\­ice in Germany, reijorts that there are quite a few 
N.D. men ser\"ing in Germany, most of whom will ^ remain in Germany for at least two more years. He "^ mentions THOMAS McMAHON, FRANK WIL­SON and ROBERT GSCHWEND. At present they arc discussing the possibility of forming a Notre Dame club in Germany. John's address is O.M.G. Hesse, APO 633, c/o Postmaster, New York, N. Y. 
Lt. JOHN ^^NICLIER is serving with the Ma­rine Corps on Guam. His address is: HAA Group. 1st AAA Bn., FMF Pac. Guam, Navy No. 926, FPO, San Francisco, Calif. 
LAWRENCE J. LYNCH is in the truck trans­portation business at 5132 Forest Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 
GEORGE H. TAYLOR is assistant plant manager of Fox-Vleet Drug Co.. in Wichita, Kans. His ad­dress is 416 Mathewson Court. 
ROBERT C. TR.AINOR is a senior at the Uni­versity of South Dakota, Vermillion, S. D. 
1948 
HERM.AN ZITT, working in the Foundation office at Notre Dame, generously gets the dass news under way with the following: 
With this, the May issue of the ALUMNUS, the class of '48 is getting off to a fl>ing start by getting _^ some class news in print before Commencement, f l This issue is being distributed to the June grads so ^"^ that the>' can drop in their suggestions to me before leaving for the four corners of the U. S. 
The purpose of this writing is to elect a class sec­retary who can report all of the class news to BILL DOOLEY, '26, managing editor of the ALUMNUS. The sooner your nomination is received the sooner we will hav-e a permanent class secre­tary*. Also any suggestions as to the length of the secretary's term of oflfice, etc., would be welcomed. 
Meanwhile fire in to me by pony express, tele­graph, long distance telephone, or just plain mail all the news about yourself and your particular pals— jobs, new jobs, marriages, births, new addresses, etc. In other words, send any kind of stuff that you'd like to read about somebody else. Our class being the lai^est graduating class to date should furnish me with a wealth of choice material, to insert in this column. 
.\n>-way, for better or for worse, here's the col­
lected data on the gentlemen of *48: JOHN AL­VAREZ is working as a salesman for the George A. Miel Co. in New Jersey, DON STOCKING is a patent examiner for the Patent Office of the Com­merce Dept. in Washington. JAMES DUTOIT is -a junior accountant with Haskins & Sells in Detroit. TOM JACKSON is a partner in the Bruner Pic­
ture Service in Hamilton, O. « 
EVERHART SCHLECK is training with an X-ray \M equipment company in Milwaukee. JOHN HORRI­GAN is a junior analyst with the City National Bank in Chicago. DICK STACK (being married in June) is a sales manager with Remington Rand in Wausau, Wis. JIM WEBB is a salesman with the Underwood Corp. in Philadelphia. FRANK WOLF is production manager for the Coca Cola Bottling Co. in Mt. Carmel, III. 
BOB FELTES is taking graduate work at UCLA. TOM HERBERT is a store manager for the Herbert Bros. Furniture Co. in Auburn, N. Y. MURRAY MfiNAMARA is a salesman for the Rhinelander Paper Co., in Rhinelander, Wis. 
BILLY VOLL is assistant to the general manager, Sibley Machine & Foundry* Corp.. South Bend. Rev. CLETUS F. DIRKSEN, CPP.S., is an assistant professor of economics at St. Joseph's College, Col­legeville, Ind. JOHN DEEGAN is in a training pos­ition for Schuster's in Milwaukee. BERNARD DU­CLOS is a research engineer for the New York Air Brake Co., in Watertown, N. Y. JOHN MAD­DEN is a salesman for the Peerless-Tulsa Co. in 
Tulsa, Okla. TOM HARDNLAN is co-owner of the Hardman Hardware Co. in LaFontaine, Ind. AL KAISER is a management trainee for the Kendall Co. in South Bend. 
FRED KLEIN is practicing law in Perth Amboy, 
N. J. BILL GRIFFY is a salesman for the Cham­pion Rivet Co. in Cleveland, O. JOHN BREHL is a reporter for the Toronto Star in Toronto, Ont. TOM KILDUFF is an electrical draftsman in Chi­cago. ED O'HARA is a social and welfare worker in Niagara Falls, N. Y. WALLY ANDREWS is with Better Brushes in South Bend. JOHN CRADDOCK is working for the Elgin Watch Co.« Elgin, III., and JOE DcMURO is working for the Notre Dame Foundation here at Notre Dame. 
N.D.Men Attend Meeting 
Fifty-four faculty members and alumni at­tended a social hour for Notre Dame chem­istry alumni at the Stevens Hotel in Chi­cago on April 20 in connection with the American Chemical Society convention. Dr. 
J. P. Danehy of the Com Products Refining Co., Argo, 111., acted as local representative of the department in making the arrange­ments. 
UNO Night Observance 
Continued from Page 9 when there must be a voice other than the state's if the state should yield to error. 
"We are convinced that at the moment there is a great good will in America toward all education. American people are con­vinced of the merits of education. The American government is on record as de­siring to subsidize education to a degree unprcedentcd in our history, and we have long led the world. 
"But we feel that the proponents of pri­vate education rooted in the principles of religion possess the deposit of faith of the great political experiment that is the hope of the world, American democracy. 
"Wc feel that just as science has created forces which threaten to destroy all prog­ress that man has made through the cen­turies, so the American government, all un­wittingly, may create an educational system that, divorced from its integration with the religious roots that made it great, may be its actual undoing. 
"We urge that our friends remain clear on the discussion of the separation of church and state. And this point should be fore­most. The church, separated from all gov­ernments, has lived. All governments, ex­cept to date the American, separated from religion, have died. But if we remember our origins, and remain steadfast to those 
Alumni Directory 
Continued from Page 2 

25—Purchasing Agents and Buyers 
RYAN. Thomas A., '29, Western Manager, ABC Vending Corp., 224 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago 4, 111. RES.: 250 Vondamin Ave., Glen EUyn, 111. 
26—Radiomen (Writing and Production) 
BROWN, Thomas M., "39, Program Director, Station WND, Notre Dame, Ind. RES.: 10 Second St., So. Bend, Ind. (Sample name only). 
27—So/es Engineers 
RETTER, James R., '45, Technical Repre­sentative, Carbide & Carbon Chemicals Corp., 30 E. 42nd St., N. Y. 17, N. Y. RES.: 537 W. 121st St., Apt. 6. 
28—Salesmen 
HONAN, Joseph M., '37, Salesman, L. Karp and Sons, Inc., 126 S. Green, Chicago 7, 
111. RES.: 5129 N. Sheridan. 
29—Scientists (Biolog­ical and Physical) 
GREEN, James M., '33, Director of Biolog­ical Research, ABC Chemical Corp., South Bend, Ind. RES.: 1111 Second St. (Sample name olny). 
30—SOCIO/ and Welfare Workers 
LATTIMER, Kenneth C. '37, Asst. Director Fund Raising, Southeastern Area, Ameri­can Red Cross, 230 Spring St., N. W. At­lanta 3, Ga. RES.: 924 S. Candler St., De­catur, Ga. 
31—Teachers 
MANGEUI, Joseph E., '37, Teacher, Board of Education, Bayonne, N. J. RES.: 65 W. 39lh. 
32—Miscellaneous (Students) 
MAZZA, Patrick A., Jr., '45, Medical Stu­dent Jefferson Medical College, 1025 Wal­nut St., Philadelphia, Pa. RES.: 2018 Spring St., West Lawn, Pa. 
magnificent words uttered here in Philadel­phia in 1776, we should find in the union of God and government, of public and pri­vate school, of home and church, the ingre­dients of lasting national greatness." 
Notre Dame T-Shirts 
•
 FOR SONS 

•
 DAUGHTERS 

•
 GRANDCHILDREN 

•
 NEPHEWS 

•
 NIECES 

•
 FRIENDS 


and for the "Old Grads," too 
Fine Quality White T-Shirts With Champacraft Processed College Name 

JTS JUVENILE 
H.IO 

B78QS BOYS 78QS MENS 
1 
Order by Number and Size 
NO .  SIZE  SIZE EQUIVALENT  
JTS  SMALL  1 ­ 2 year old  
JTS  . MEDIUM  3 -4  
JTS  LARGE  6-8  
D78QS  SMALL  9-1 0  
R78QS  MEDIUM  11-12  
B78QS  LARGE  13-14  
78QS  SMALL  34 ­ 36 chest  
78QS  MEDIUM  38-4 0  ••  
78QS  LARGE  42-44  ••  

Postage prepaid to any part of the U. S. 
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
. WRITE FOR FOLDER 
listing N.D, Souvenirs, Jewelry, Novelties 

Jbi/iecio^ of Clubs and Their Presidents » » 
ARIZONA—PHOEXIX—Roberl Kendall, '31, 302 Mitchell Dr., Phoenix, Ariz. 
TDCSON—Ted W. Witi. '29. Box 628 
ARKANSAS—Burt L. Eoberts. '16. 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Eock (secretary) 
CALIFORNIA—LOS ANGELES—Vernon E. Rick­ard, '24, 1620 N. ^'isla St., Holljivood 46, Calif. 
NORTHERN—John W. Carey. '41, Hanna Center for Boys, 7S5 Market. Rm. 402. San Francisco (San Francisco area) 
COLORADO—DENVER—Dr. Daniel G. Mon­ashan. '38. 440 William 
CONNECTICUT — CONNECTICUT VALLEY — M'iUiara J. Rcid, *26, 7 May St., Hartford, Conn. 
NAUGATUCK VALLEY—D. Frank Murnane, '32, Summit Rd., Prospect, Conn. (Water­bury area) 
SOUTHWESTERN—Frank S. McGce, '33, 51 Savoy St., ;;ridgcport 6 (Bridgeport area) 
DELAWARE—Arthur A. Baum. '36. 1310 Van Buren St.. Apt. 3-C. Wilmington. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—WASHINGTON — Thomas L. McKevitt, '32, 10,108 Big Rock, Rd., Silver Spring, Mar>-land. 
FLORIDA—Georee A. Brautieam. '29. 538 N. E. 55th Terrace, Miami, Fla. 
FT. LAUDERDALE—Robert H. Gore. '31, . 221 N.E. River Drive, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
GEORGIA—William H. Scliroder, Jr., '35, 162 Ruinson Rd., .Atlanta, Ga. ILLINOIS—CHICAGO—James R. Cronin. '35, 3962 Cottage Grove Ave., Chicaeo 15, III. 
FOX VALLEY—William B. Cliawgo, '31, 516 Binder St., Aurora, III. 
JOLIEr—^Joseph V. Kirincich, '33, 306 Ruby St. 
I'EORIA—Donald P. Smith, '40, 436 Linn St., Peoria, 111. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Donald A. Hen­nessy, '37, Catholic Community High School, Sterling, 111. (Rockford-Dixon area) 
SPRINGFIELD — Nicholas C. Amrhein. '39, 1623 S. Fourth St. 
INDIANA—CALUMET DISTRICT—Daniel D. LjTich, '23, 34 Midway Court. Hammond. Ind. 
E.ASTER.N; INDIANA-William F. Craig, '29, Station WLBQ, Munde (Muncie area) 
FORT WAYNE—Bernard T. Keams, '29, 903 Pasadena Drive 
INDI-ANAPOLIS—G. Don Sullivan, ex. '24, R. R. 14, Box 227, Indianapolis 44, Ind. 
MICHIGAN CITi'—Hugh L. Burns, '39, Stop 18, Long Beach, Ind. 
ST. JOSEPH V.ALLEY-Jerome J. Crouley, '31, 315 LaMonte Terrace, South Bend, Ind. 
TRI-STATE (Ky., Ind. and 111.)—Paul C. Thole, ex. '.35, Hulman Bldg., 1011, 4th & Syca­more, Evansville 18, Ind. 
WABASH VALLEY—William J. Schrader, ex '33, 824 North 10th St.. Lafayette, Ind. 
IOWA—DES MOINES—George J. Pflanj, III, e.x. '43, 604 Insurance Exchange Bldg., Des Moines, la. 
DUBUQUE—C. I. Krajewski, '16, 1775 S. Grandville Ave. 
SIOUX CITY—Robert A. Manning, '36, 2719 Nebraska St. (key Ban) 
TEI-CITIES—Alfred T. Erskine. Jr., '37, 712 Grand Court. Davenport, Iowa. (Davenport-Rock Island-Moline area) 
KANSAS—EASTERN­KENTUCKY—Charies G. Morrow, '38, 419 ilc-Cready Ave., Louis\'ille 6, Kentucky. 

LOUISIANA—NEW ORLEANS—Jules K. de la Vergne, '38, 5811 Hurst 
NORTHERN—James B. Nowery. '20. P.O. Box 1545, Shreveport 94 (Shreveport area) 

MARYLAND —BALTIMORE—Letvis J. O'Shca, '31, 307 St. Dunstan's Ed.. Homeland. 
AU.SSACHUSETTS—BOSTON-^ohn V. Horan, 
•30. Costcllo. Moran & Mahan. 31 State St.. Boston 9. Mass. 

MICHIGAN—BERRIEN COUNTY — AVilliam H. Downey. '28. 60 N. St. Joseph Ave., Nilcs (Niles-St. Joseph-Benton Harbor area) 
BLUE WATER DISTRICTT—William L. Wil­son. '42. P.O. Box 295. Port Huron (Port Huron area) 
CENTRAL—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes. '18, 828 
N. Logan St., Lansing (Lansing area) 
DETROIT—Adclbert C. Baur, Jr., '36, 17365 Parksidc, Detroit 21, Mich. 
GRAND RAPIDS and A\'TEBTERN MICHI­GAN—Robert N. Alt, ex '29, 901 Plymouth Rd., S.E., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.)—Norman C. Bartholomew, *15, 225 Cleveland Ave., Iron Mountain, Mich. (Iron Mt.-Marinette area) 
IRON RANGE—Robert E. O'Callashan, ex '45. 635 McLeod Ave., Ironwood, Mich. 
JACKSON—Lyman H. Hill. Jr.. 5205 U. S. 127 S. 
SAGINAW VALLEY —Joseph C. Goddeyne. 
•11. 2275 Carrol Rd.. Bay City. Mich. (Sagi­naw area) 

SUNNESOTA—Paul H. Castncr, '23, 1305 W. Ar­lington Ave., St. Paul 4, Minn. (Twin Cities Area) 
»nSSOURr—KANSAS CITY (MO. and Kans.)­Joseph M. Van Ds'ke, ex '44, 4642 Pennsyl­vania, Kansas City 2, Mo. 
ST. LOUIS—Fred S. McNeill, '36, 4610 Pen­rose, St. Louis, Mo. 

MONTANA—Bernard Grainey, '43, 801 12th Ave., Helena. 
NEW JERSEY—CENTRAL —Michael J. Balog, '3A. 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy (Perth Amijoy area) 
NE\V JERSEY—George J. Melinkovich, '35, 27 Leo Place, Newark (Newark area) 

NEW YORK—BUFFALO—John L. Hoelscher, '42. 174 Oosby Blvd.. Eggertsville, N. Y. 
CAPITAL DISTRICT — James J. Drislane, 
•38, 75 State St.. Albany, N. Y. 
CENTR.'\L—John E. McAuliffc, '39, 941 Tunic St., Syracuse 8, N. Y. 
MOHAWK VALLEY—Dr. Francis A. Marino, '37, 903 Mohawk St., Utica, N. Y. 
NEW YORIC CITY—John- A. Hoyt. Jr.. '33. Gillespie & O'Connor. 20 Vesey St, New York 7, N. Y. 
NORTHERN-Judge Cornelius J. Carey, '30, 12 Park St., Malone (Malone area) 
ROCHESTER—William E. Bell, '25, 95 Ames St. 
SCHENECTADY—John F. Hurley. '37, 83 Westeim Parkway, Schenectady. 
TRIPLE CITIES—James H. HoBan, '34. 42 Oak St.. Binghamton. N . Y. (Binghamton-Johnson City area) 

OHIO—AKRON-Paul A. Bertsch. '29, 763 S. High. 
CANTON—William H. Beldea, '36, 305 22nd St., N.W. 
CENTRAI^-Dr. Thomas M. Hughes, '38, 481 
E. Town St., Columbus 15, Ohio. 
CLN'CINNATI-Robert J. Leonard, '41, 2504 Carew Tower, Cincinnati, Ohio, 
CLEVELAND — Hugh M. O'Neill, '17, 644 Terminal Tower 
DAYTON—E. William Hoyne, '42, 205 Salem 

Avenue 
HAMILTON—Judge Harry F. Walsh, '31. 
Municipal Court. 
LIMA-George Shanahan, '17. 432 W. Main St. 
OHIO VALLEY—Dr. William E. Ackermann. '33. 14 Edgewood St., Wheeling. W. Va. (Bellaire-Wheeling area) 
SANDUSICY—Alfred A. Schnurr. Jr., '23, 
So. CTolumbus Ave., Sandusky, Q, 
TIFFIN—Fred J. Wagner, '29, 84'/i S. Wash­
ington St. 
TOLEDO—John E, Malone, '42, 4805 Summit 
St., Toledo. Ohio 
YOUNGSTOWN—Clarence T. Shcehan, '40, 
The "Vindicator." 

OKLAHOMA—TULS.\—CiirI J. Senger, '37, 1329 North Boston, Tulsa 6, Okla. 
OKLAHOMA CITY—Haskell Askew, '31, 1000 
Perrine Bldg., Oklahoma (3ity, Okla. 

OREGON—Robert G, Molin, '40. 316 W. Alder St.. Portland 
PANAMA—William .Sheridan. '38. Box 605. An-con. Canal Zone. 
PENNSYLVANIA—EASTERN—Leo R. Mclntyre. /« ? '28. 3004 Turner St.. Allentown (Allentown-^ Bethlehem area) 
ERIE—James B. Dwyer. '37. 4006 State St. 
HARRISBURG—Edirard R. Eckcnrodc, Jr., '44, 
2929 North 2nd St., HarrUburs, Pa. 
MONONGAHELA VALLEY — Edward J. Dean, '28, 11 Linden Ave., Monessen, Pa. (Monessen area) 
PHILADELPHIA—John H. Neeson, Jr., "35, 
37 Highland Ave. Cynwyd, Pa. 
SCRANTON—Louis J. Finske, '19, Gravel 
Pond No. 2, Clarks Summit, Pa. 
WESTERN—J. Vincent Burke, Jr., '33, 1100 
Peoples Bank Bldg., Pittsbursh 22, Pa. 
WILKES-B.ARRE—Edward J. Ro»an, '35, 34 
W. .North St., Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
^VILUASrSPORT-Frank C. Hayes. '27, 820 
Brie Ave., Benovo, Pa. 

RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS— 
J. Clement Grimes, tl . '29, 384 River x\vc., ProWdence, R. I. 

TENNESSEE—MEMPHIS—Phil M. Ciinale, Jr., '40, 1325 Commerce Title Bldg., Memphis 3, Tenn. ^ 
NASHVILLE—W. Kennedy Jones, '30, P.O. 
Box 773 

TEXAS—DALL.-\S—Edniond R. Haggar, '38, 6712 Lakcwood Blvd., Dallas, Tex. 
HOUSTO.X-Thomas A. Standish, '35, 2106 
Swift, Houston 5, Tex. 
SAN ANTONIO—Leonard M. Hess, '25, 201 
Stanford Dr. 

UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kearns Bldg., Salt Lake City 
VIRGINIA-Dr. Charles R. Riley, '39, 3508 Sem­inary Ave., Richmond 22. 
WASHINGTON—WESTERN—John P. English, '33, 1606/- 15th Ave, Seattle, Wash. 
WEST VIRGINIA—Joseph F. Neenan, '41, 4012 Venable Ave.. Charleston 
WISCONSIN—GREEN BAY—Harold L. Londo. '24, Sup't, Green Bay Water Dept. 
FOX RIVER VALLEY—William H. Fieweger, 
'36, 419 Naymut St., Menasha, Wis. 
LA CROSSE—Frederick R. Funk, '46, 208 
South 15th St., La Crosse, Wis. 

MILWAUKEE—Donald T. Gottsdialk, t-c. '41, i 213 W. Wisconsin Ave., Milwaukee 3, Wisconsin. Jk 
SOUTH CENTRAL —John W. Roach. '25. w ' 2115 Van Hise Ave.. Madison (Madison area) 







