The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
June, 1931 THE NOTRE DA HE ALUMNUS 
This is the last issue of. the ALUMNUS for the cuirent year. Next year the magazine goes on a new schedule of pub­lication. It will be issued the fii-st of the month instead of the fifteenth as at present. The fii-st issue of the tenth volume, 1931-32, will therefore make its appearance October 1. 
There has to be, in the na­ture of the editorial staff and the printing facilities, a few days' elasticity in the date of publication, but the schedule this year has been rather regu­lar, and hopes ai-e enteitained for the same happy situation next year. The Commence­ment number, as in this in­stance, usually compels a delay. 
The change means a change in the date that copy is due from the Classes and Clubs. To secure the best results in make-up, sequence, etc., copy ought to be in the Alumni Office ten daj's before the date of going to press. Therefore, the ALUMNUS asks the Club and Class Secretaries to mai'k on their calendai-s for next year the fifteenth of each month as the date for mailing Club and Class news to the Editor. 
There has been a noticeable increase in the co-operation of the Secretaries this year that the Editor believes the Clubs and Classes must have found reflected in their respective columns. This news of indi­viduals is, in all alumni maga­zines, the principal point of interest, the pei-sonal element. The ALUMNUS cannot always give unlimited space to com­munications, but the general statement holds, that the mag­azine can't receive too much material from the Classes and Clubs. 
The Ballots this year earned a space resei-\'ed for the nom­ination of a Class Representa­tive for the Living Endowment Fund for each Class. The re­sults of this voting, being par­ticular to the Living Endow­
|«lltltlltlllllllttlllltlltltltlllllll>llltllltlllllltllllllllllllt»lllllllllllltlllMIIMIItllW»MtllMIMMtM«MMWlMMIIlllll»tMMIIII»"MII»Mt»W«IHwB 
IN TtilS IXXUE 
I Notre Dame . Frontispiece = 
I Commencement Address of 1931, by Angus D. McDonald, '00_ 355 i 87th Annual Commencement-358 Eockne Memorial Announced, by Eev. Charles L. 
O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06 361 Frank Hayes, '14, New President-363 Progress, an Editorial-364 Eeport of Annual Meeting-365 Frank Bering Honored, by Eev. John W. 
Cavanaugh, C.S.C, '90 , 36T Football Ticket Regulations, by J. Arthur Haley, '26-373 Local Alumni Clubs 375 The Alumni 
379 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year hy the Alomoi 
Association of the University of Notre. Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. The 
subscription price is $2.00 a year: the price of sinsle copies to 2S cents, .^ e 
annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's sobseription to THE ALUHNUS. 
Entered as second-cIass matter January 1. 1923. at the poet office at Notre 
Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1879. All correspondence should 
be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnos, Boc 81, Notra Dame, Indiana. ­
MEMBER OF THE ASIERICAN ALDHNI COUNCQ. MEJIBER OP THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALTJMNI FEDERATION •. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration BIdg., Notre Dame, Indiana JAMES E . ABJISIRONG, General Secretary .' 
ALUUNI BOARD 
EEV. JOHN A. MACNAJIARTV, '97 Honorary President FRANCIS H . HAYES, '14 President CLARENCE JVUNION, '22 - Vice-President WALTER DUNCAN, '12 -Treasurer JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '2.T -Secretary JL HARRY MILLER, '10 -Director 
T. PAUL MCGA.V.VON, '07 -- Director JOHN F . O'CONXELL, '13 Director ROBERT E . LYNCH, '03 - Director FRANK E . HERING, '98 (ex officio) Director 
tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii*tiiiiiiii)iiiii"*i**itiiittiii 
ment, will be issued as a part mailed out during July to all of the First Annual Report of alumni. Those which are re­the Living Endowment of the turned will be checked against University of Notre Dame in the above list, and if the dues the very near future. are marked paid a preference 
will be given, ending Septem­ber 15. Three important steps are necessary for alumni desir­
Once again — the list of 

ing this preference. (1) Pay 
alumni whose annual dues of 

your dues by August 1st." (2) 
five, dollars are paid to the 
National Association by Aug­Apply for your tickets on the ust 1, 1931, will be given to the . blanks marked ALUMNI, and 

Athletic Association on that order only the specified eight date. Alumni application forms tickets or fewer. (3) Get your for individual games will be order in before Sept. 15th 
354 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Jun^ 1931 
"Oh Notre Dame, tlvoit, beauteous place. Where nature teems, where natttre teems . . 
Volume IX. JUNE, 1931 No. 10 

Commencement Address MCDONALD, 'OO 
Your Excellency, Very Reverend Father President, Reverend Fathers, Ladies and Gentlemen: 
I appreciate most deeply the honor 

which has been conferred upon me, 
for it is indeed an honor to be chosen 
to speak at these Graduation Exer­
cises. Yet, like all honors worthy of 
the name, that which I enjoy today 
carries with it its own particular 
duty and, if I have interpreted that 
duty rightly, it is to express in words 
my personal sentiments concerning 
our great University, and to offer 
encouragement and advice to those 
who are about to leave these hallowed 
walls to walk the road of life beyond. 
As to the first part of the duty I 

have assumed, it is not easy to find 
words to express the affection that all 
Notre Dame men have for this place. 
There are some feelings in our hearts 
deeper than mere sentiment, and im­
possible of expression, and one such 
feeling in my own heart is my love of 
Notre Dame. I rejoice at her steady 
and solid growth; I rejoice over her 
triumphs in her many spheres of 
activity; and I rejoice in the success 
of her many faithful and loving sons 
scattered throughout this great coun­
try. 
There are thousands who, like my­self, think today of Notre Dame as the home of great teachers. It is not so much a place where all that is known is taught, as a place where great minds, generous hearts, and noble souls are gathered to offer their wisdom, their love, and their faith towards the development in young men, of the worthy ideals of right living and perfect manhood. The spot "where my youthful years were passed as in a dream can never be forgotten. The memory of those days is a part of me. In looking back over that period of cloud and sunshine, the little sorrows, disappointments, and troubles, now seem far sweeter than many of the joys I have since e-xpe­rienced; and I always regard Notre Dame with that feeling of love one has for home, and for those who made it home, a feeling which can neither 
be expressed nor forgotten. 
It is customary to call the ending 

of the scholastic year Commencement, 
because it is the beginning or com­
mencement of a new life for the mem­
bers of the graduating class. It is on 
such a day as this that we undersatnd 
a little more clearly for what purpose 
our University exists. Many of you 
are about to leave the gates of Notre 
Dame, and it is when you have left 
that you will give evidence of the 
spirit you have absorbed. Life which 
is real, life which can be very hard 
indeed, and which may even be re­
duced to a stern struggle for exist­
ence, is about to begin for you; and 
it is in your conduct, rather than in your display of knowledge, that the value of your happy years here will be demonstrated. 
It is not my purpose to discuss why you came to Notre Dame, or to in­quire what measure of success you have attained in accomplishing your purpose in coming here; because your mere presence here as members of the graduating class is evidence that Notre Dame considers you worthy to receive the highest honor she can con­fei-. Neither do I propose to enter into a discussion concerning the va­rious theories of education, university training, and the like; because you have listened to others who do that far more ably than I can. Only this will I venture to say: I think that an important function of a university is to create an intellectual atmos­phere in which the love of excellence in accomplishment, and of education, becomes contagious; and I believe that the first thought in every true university is, and should be, to mould and fashion men who shall reach the development of true manhood. And we know that the one desire of our Alma Mater is to produce first and foremost—men: men who are men before God and their fellows. 
In this place, and permeating every part of it, there is an atmosphere which it is impossible to breathe with­out feeling new and larger hopes and aims. Without an ideal of some kind, life has no significance, and without an ideal, and without a life purpose, opportunities can neither be seen nor grasped. We all associate life with some end, or ends, the attainment of which seems to us most desirable. In youth we foi-m ideals which generally goveni our lives through moulding our characters and shaping our des­tinies. All important, therefore, is the choice of an ideal. When you men of the graduating class came to Notre Dame you had some kind of ideal, and just as every good mother de­votes her life to forming the charac­ter of her child, so your teachers here have devoted their love and their wis­dom to helping you conceive right ideals, and to forming in you habits of industry, which will sen-e as the foundation upon which you will build your lives after you leave here. 
In speaking of principles and ideals to Notre Dame men, the thought naturally comes to mind that the Notre Dame men of recent years have been fortunate indeed in haying the inspiring love and magnetic influence of an ardent and passionate soul who had a peculiar power to develop in others the many virtues which go to make a man a true man—the virtues of charity, decency, honesty, fair-mindedness, cleanliness of mind and of body, and courage in defeat as well as joy in \ictory. 
I know that I am but expressing your ovm sentiments. Reverend Fath­ers, when I say that one of your greatest gifts from God in your task of building up the tradition of this institution, was the gift of the devo­tion of one of your most favored sons. In your capable hands rested the re­sponsibility of forming the characters of your students as children of God. Into his hands you committed the task of showing them how to acquit them­selves before men. To him you gave the responsibility of teaching the stu­dents of this university that good sportsmanship before God necessarily implied good sportsmanship before men. Not a minor part of the educa­tion of Notre Dame was in his hands, for his was not a character that would recognize limitations in the interpre­tation of his duties. Within the walls of Notre Dame, principles as solid as granite have been offered to the stu­dent body; on the playing fields of Notre Dame, principles equally solid, and equally important, have been in­stilled, through his untiring zeal. He has left a priceless heritage, as one who was faithful to his ideals, and all Notre Dame men should cherish his' principles as scarcely less sacred than their religion. 
You know, of course, I refer to our dear departed friend Knute Rockne, and you know why I dare not dwell too long upon his virtues—^that would be to reopen wounds that'are still fresh. Language has been exhausted in expi'essions of admiration and affection for him, and I have no desire to sadden your hearts or to excite your emotions on this memorable day. If we experience a heartache today, it is not because we fear that the glorious tradition he fostered wiU perish, but simply and solely because we have, all of us, lost a friend. 
I am uttering platitudes when I say that his memory will never die, and that his ideals will live on for­ever in our immortal tradition; but you who are about to depart, you men of Notre Dame who remain behind, and the Notre Dame men of future years, as well as we who have gone from these walls, will, I know full well, always cherish as part of the legacy of Notre Dame, the spirit of Rockne, which is the spirit of a great sportsman, a great Christian, and a great friend of all that is clean, and good, and true in life. Whilst that spirit is cherished, whilst the tradi­tion of the class rooms and the tradi­tions of the playing field go hand-in­hand, Notre Dame will continue to produce sons who play the game be­fore God and who play the game be­fore men. 
Today, you who are young, need this two-fold lesson, and need it more 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS June, 1931 
perhaps than it has ever been needed before. You, the members of the graduating class, who receive a crown upon the completion of your labors, during the last few months have doubtlessly asked yourselves more earnestly than ever before: How shall I live? What shall I do in life? How can I best use what I have received here? 
The whole of life is a process of adjustment. Think of all the truths that still remain for you to learn, of all the good you may do, of all the friends you may serve, and of all the beauty you may see. Life, my young friends, is full of pi-omise for you. You stand upon the threshold of the world. Of the many careers which are open to human acti\ity, each of you will ultimately choose one, and your fortunes will be various. What­ever you may make of yourselves, whether farmers, businessmen, doc­tors, lawyers, or teachers, above all things first have a care that you are men, and if you are to be men, it is because I know the supreme im­portance of beginning rightly, that I venture to offer you ad\'ice which, even though it be old and oft-i-epeat­ed, is nevertheless sound and true. 
You have grown to manhood dur­ing a period of the gi-eatest material prosperity ever witnessed in the his­tory of the world; a period which may in real truth be described as artificial, in that false values were attached to almost all things. The economic world erected during your student days, and before them, has been ruthlessly shattered; and we are in the depths of a world-wide business depression which is as intensive and as extensive as was the prosperity we enjoyed. How long this depression will last, or when it will end, no one knows. By a strange and mysterious paradox, more persons are out of work and in need at present than ever before, and at the same time, our wealth, as measured by money and the things we produce, is gi-eater than at any other time in history. There is something radically and fundamentally wrong with a world in which riches abound in all directions, and yet in which millions of men will­ing and able to work are condemned to idleness. Unlike the period of prosperity, which introduced many artificialities, the period of depression has brought us face to face with stern reality. Thinking men everywhere are searching for the causes of the present crisis, and for the remedies that will prevent a recurrence of similar crises; in other words, they are trying to diagnose the disease and to prescribe the remedy, but the cure is not yet in sight. WTiat they have 
failed so far to do, I would not ven­ture to attempt, but 1 do beg of you to remember that this depression stands before you as a gigantic fact to be bravely faced when yon leave this place. You will hear many call­ing it a discouraging and a hopeless fact—whether you believe this to be so, or not, depends entirely upon your point of view. That it is indeed miserable and piteous in its effects, no. one can deny. In my own limited sphere of activity in business I have had many heartaches in recent months, because of things I have had to do in adjusting our affairs to meet the changed conditions. Inasmuch, however, as this present depression calls for a solid grasp of fundamental principles, and a sincere appreciation of the need of struggle and of sacri­fice, as well as the exercise of a truly manly courage, the present crisis may, for many of you, even prove to be a happy time of trial. 
I repeat, you stand at the end of a period of artificiality, and at the be­ginning of a period of harsh reality. For you, the story of Alice in Won­derland is reversed. You are going forth into a society in which millions, through no fault of their own, are idle, and in which thousands besides yourselves, possessing your technical knowledge and your ambition, iind it impossible to obtain employment of any kind. That may sound pessi­mistic and discouraging on a day like this, but if I failed to refer to this fact, I feel that I should not be true to you; I should not be true to the duty imposed upon me. Notivith­standing this gloomy outlook, I think you should consider yourselves fortu­nate indeed, because the education and training you have received here \vill give you the ii'on qualities of courage and persistence, that you will need for meeting in a manly way this condition of affairs. Economic, poli­tical, and social questions are forever changing; views of today may seem absurd a few years hence; and meas-­ures and laws which now seem neces­sary and important may in time be inapplicable and of no value. There­fore, do not become discouraged over this business depression, because it is only temporary; for there is genius enough in America to discover and carry out economic policies that will give us a future ultimately surpassing in prosperity, the rich harvests of recent years. 
So far, remember, you have only been guided and stimulated. That, thanks to your teachers, has been in the right direction; but whither you go they cannot follow; the work that is yours they cannot do. Yon must now begin tb ffeich yourselves, and from now on, your school will be the hard school of a world in the grip of economic laws which do not change over-night or yield to purely human qualities. Let the world outside be what it may, and let conditions be what they may, my first principle and my first element of advice to you is this: cling fast to your ambition to make yourself a man. That neces­sarily implies that when working out your natural destiny, you mil always remember your supernatural destiny, and will live according to the prin­ciples of faith you have studied and practiced at Notre Dame. 
Your success in life, from the stand­point of material well-being, will be proportionate to the industry and perseverance with which you make right use of your opportunities for doing good, and for your o\\-n ad­vancement. Perseverance and hard work accomplish far more than genius. Do not become economic wanderers, but begin at once to de­termine what you will be in life, and when you have determined that, set yourselves manfully at the hax'd work necessary to fulfill your ambition. Whatever your task may be, it will always require for its success a posi­tive zeal and pleasure in carrying it out; hence, if you cannot be happy and contented in the work that you select as your life's work, and if you experience positive distaste and un­happiness in it, have the courage to change your mind and your work..But do not change your mind too often, lest you become slightly familiar with many things and master of none. As you cannot transplant a tree frequent­ly and expect it to bear fruit, so you cannot make frequent changes in your work and expect to get the best re­sults. For such a man the world to­day has no use at all; it is insistently demanding experts in every depart­ment of activity; and the expert is made, he is not bom. It is not possi­ble to know everything at once, or to do everything well at once, or, as a friend of mine aptly expressed it— one cannot play all the instruments of the band at the same time. There­fore, you will be wise to concentrate, from the very beginning, on doing what your talent or your duty points out as your proper work. In such an effort you will require not merely coui-age, but patience too—patience even with yourselves. Haste is a sure 
sign, not only of immaturity, but also of ultimate failure, so do not expect success to come too quickly or too easily. There is no royal road or short-cut to success, and no man can offer a formula for success, as that term is generally understood. The only formula I personally know of, is intelligent hard work, and without that it is impossible to excel in any­thing. 

That brings me to another fact which I must stress in more concrete terms. Your work, from the very be­ginning, should be not merely hard but also intelligent. Every day of your lives you realize the fact that work can be the one without being 
June, 1931 

THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
9 
B
Z 
o 
s 3 
z 
H X 
C 
Z 
z 

the other. A laborer on the road very 
often works hard, but he does not 
often work intelligently, otherwise he 
would not remain a laborer. The 
same is true of the plodding book­
keeper who is contented to spend his 
life making figures. Business today 
demands the maximum amount of 
application and industry, and the 
maximum amount of intelligence. It 
is so because both brain and brawn 
have gone into its building, just as 
brain and brawn have found their 
rightful places in the playing of 
games. 
Industry generally lias grmvn to' such proportions in recent years, that today every large business is made up of a multitude of departments, in each of which a more or less higUy developed specialization is required of those entrusted with responsibility. I am not in any way contradicting my previous advice to you 'to master first your own special duty, when I say that from the beginning you should be unwilling to know merely that special duty. I still ask you to master, and master thoroughly, the work you be­gin with; but at the same time I would urge upon you the supreme im­portance of acquainting yourselves with everything that is related, di­rectly or indirectly, to your particular task. The average young man, buried in a department of a large business, seldom knows what is done, or what is going on, in other departments, and unfortunately the average young man in almost all such cases does not even care, or want to know, what is going on in his own department beyond the limits of his particular duties. Such a young man will not go very far in the business world. Speaking directly to those of you who are going into industry, and I suppose most of you are, I ask you to imagine yourselves commencing in a small department of a large business. Yours may seem a 
j-elatively unimportant task, but in accordance with the measure of your intelligent industry you may make of it the most important task of your life. Look around you, look at the man next to you, look at the man above yon, seek information concern­ing the relation of other departments to your own, inquire into the nature and the working of everything that concerns the business as a whole and, if you care to put it that way, have a restless mind. By that I mean, have a mind that is not content to know-merely the matter absolutely demand­ed for the bare fulfilment of your duty, but a mind that brings to bear much that is over and beyond mere duty. Never be satisfied with doing only the particular work that may be assigned to you. Become a patient plodder, and always be unsatisfied until you know that you have exerted every power within you, and used all legitimate means at your disposal, to improve yourselves and to improve 
(Continued on Page 371) 

358 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS June, 1931 
Eighty - Seventh Commencement Memorable 
Things happened so fast on June 5, 6 and 7 that the Editor is simply going to fall back on the program for a resume of the events that 'will naturally fall short of doing them justice. More than 400 alumni re­turned (see lists imder Classes). To­gether with the 450 Seniors and their relatives and friends, they made a large and colorful crowd that was not particularly dimmed by the worst Commencement weather "in the mem­ory of the oldest inhabitant." 
Friday %%-itnessed the largest alum­ni registration in the Office history for the first day. The Class of 1926, 
•through an uncertainty of plans, was not able to arrange a definite Re­union program for Friday night, but many were on hand and staged an in­formal program. Jay Masenich was chairman of local arrangements. The Class of 1915 enjoyed a Class dinner at the South Bend Country Club. Jim Sanford, Class Secretary, presided. Leo Welch, John McShane, Joe Pliska, Mark Duncan, Rev. Patrick Dolan, C.S.C., and Joseph Byrne, Jr. were present. Regrets were received from Bob Roach, Father Kemdt Healy, Bill Mooney, and several other mem­bers of the Class. The discussion that followed the excellent Club din­ner, arranged through the courtesy of George O'Brien, '90, of the St. Jo­seph Valley Club, showed that in this representative group of alumni, the problems of the Association, and the Classes in particular, are very much appreciated and can be solved in time through the co-operation of such in­
formed and interested alumni as these. 
Prof. Joseph Casasanta led the Uni­versity Band in its annual Commence­ment Concert on the Quadrangle Fri­day evening at 6:30. The Band en­joyed a most popular j'ear and con­tributed an excellent concert to bring it to an ofiicial close. Notre Dame's musical organizations, while they usu­ally form a background for some other activity, are able and recog­nized representatives of the quality that the public has come to expect of Notre Dame. 
This quality was evident again on Friday night when the University Theatre enacted "The Merchant of Venice" before a crowded Washington Hall audience. The play, under the direction of Prof. Frank Kelly, was in keeping with the splendid Shake­spearean tradition that has existed for years at Notre Dame. A stringed ensemble, directed by Prof. Richard Seidel of the Department of Music, provided a classical musical setting for the production. 
At noon on Friday the Senior Class met in Washington Hall for the an­nual farewell address of the the Pres­ident of the University. The Alumni Secretary also outlined the alumni relations into which the Class enters. 
Saturday morning started most auspiciously, from the program stand­point, with a Solemn Requiem Me­morial Mass for Knute K. Rockne. The celebrant was Rev. Bernard Coughlin, '26, former monogram man and a pupil of Rockne. The deacons were Rev. John F, Farley, C.S.C, '02, former star athlete, and Rev. Dom­inic O'Malley, C.S.C, '03, four-year monogram football man. 
At 9:30 the Seniors paid their Last Visit to Sacred Heart Church, a beau­tiful private ceremony for the Class that emprasizes all the influence that religion has played in their years at Notre Dame. 
Following this came the Class Day exercises in Washington Hall, at which time the Oration, the Valedic­tory and G. K. Chesterton's Class Poem were delivered, and the annual prizes for the academic year awarded. These are listed elsewhere. 
Saturday noon the Law alumni held their first general reunion in the form of a luncheon in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall. Two hundred and fifty were present under the guidance of Prof. Clarence Manion. Col. Hoynes delivered the principal address. 
At 1:30 representatives of the Local Alumni Clubs met in the Con­ference Room, Main Building, to dis­cuss the problems of the Clubs. A program of Club Activities and sug­gested Constitutions for small, me­dium large, and large, Clubs was pre­sented by Frank T.-Fitzsimmons, '23, former President of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago and chairman of a committee of Club presidents ap­pointed at the First Annual Council a year ago. Disctision of this pro­posed program and the constitutions comprised the meeting. A special Buletin will be sent to the Clubs. 
Saturday afternoon's promised base­ball game with Michigan State was rained out. If anyone thinks that Franklin is America's leading torea­dor he should have visited the alimii ni halls during that afternoon. 
The Alumni Banquet 
The principal event of Commence­ment from the Alumni viewpoint, was the Annual Banquet, served to some seven hundred, at 6 o'clock Saturday evening in the University Dining Halls. The Reunion Classes were seated at their respective tables. 
Frank E. Hering, '98, retiring Pres­ident of the Association, was the very able toastmaster for the occasion. 
The feature of the Banquet was the annual address of the President of the University, Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, announcing this year the decision of the Rockne Memorial As­sociation to erect a field house at Notre Dame to the memory of Ivnute Rockne, the total costs to approxi­mate a milion dolars. Father O'Don­nell's address is printed elsewhere in this issue. 
Dr. Henry B. Luhn, '88, captain of the first Notre Dame football team, was a guest at the banquet and told the story of the first games with the 
U. of Michigan. John F. Gushing, '06, donor of the new College of Engi­neering Building, represented the Class of '06 (of which Father O'Don­nell is also a member.) He gave a splendid address, directed to the C3ass of 1931, outlining the value of a Notre Dame education, particularly the course in engineering as he had known and followed it, and outlined further the hopes he entertains for the continuance and progress of these ideals in the new College. 
Walter Clements, '14, city attorney of South Bend, speaking for the Dix group of which his Class was a memr ber, gave a most eloquent address. • He presented to his classmates and the general group the great lessons of character to be drawn from the life of Knute Rockne, '14. 
Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, '26, Secre­tary of the Class of 192G, one of the most active of the Class Secretaries the Editor must risk adding in the cause of truth, spoke for the 5-Year Class, repeating their pledge of loy­alty, their confidence in Notre Dame and the future, and their apprecia­tion of Notre Dame education. 
Jesse C. Harper, director of ath­letics, was present at the banquet and was given an ovation when he was introduced by Mr. Hering. 
Rt. Rev. John F. Noll, D.D,, Bishop of Fort Wayne, responded to the in­troduction of Mr. Hering with a brief eulogy of the University, outlining first his interest and enjoyment in Notre Dame football, and the fact that he has never seen a Notre Dame team lose. 
Father John Cavanaugh, former president of the University, was at the head table and received a tre­mendous hand from the hundreds of 

.•* •~^-'>x 
June, 19S1 THE NOTRE DAME ALTJMNTJS 
359 

returned alumni who had been at Notre Dame during his presidency. 
The famous and talented Univer­sity Glee Club sang after the dinner, closing with two campus songs. One, "When the Irish Backs Go Marching By," brought the introduction of Eev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., a member of the Class of 1906, author of the words of the song. The other, the world-famed "Victory March," gave most of the men present their iirst oppor­tunity of meeting John F. Shea, also of 1906, co-author. 
The dinner was served with the usual efficiency and tastiness of the University Dining Halls. 
The Sunday Program 

The Rt. Eev. John Francis Noll, D.D., Bishop of the diocese of Fort Wayne, was celebrant of the solemn pontifical Mass at 9:00 o'clock, at which the baccalaureate sermon was given by the Rt. Rev. John Mark Gannon, D.D., Bishop of Erie. The Very Eev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame, blessed the.beautiful class flag after the Mass, preceding the ceremony with an explanation of its signifi­cance. 
Conducted by the Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C, the Moreau Semi­nary choir, one of the greatest reli­gious choirs in the country, sang at the Mass. 
In the bacalaureate sermon during the solemn Pontifical Mass, the Et. Eev. John Mark Gannon spoke to the graduates on the wide discontent of nations with existing orders of dic­tatorship and parental rule, contrast­ing such systems with the true spirit of democracy upon which the United States is founded. 
"I come out of the turmoil of a topsy - tun'y world into the quiet, peaceful precincts of this University to deliver a brief message to you gentlemen, graduates," said Bishop Gannon. "I think I should begin by throwing upon the world's screen a few flashes of the international pic­ture, the main strong outlines of the races of men and their governments, of modem civilization and its attitude toward God and Christianity, so that you graduates might with your dawn­ing careers add to your line of life to improve the picture and not add to the despair and misery of the whole. 
"Of the 7,000,000 who inhabit that zone known as the European zone at the present time, over one-half are living under Soviet rule, with consti­tutional authority totally destroyed in some cases and supressed in others. In India there is constant, seething discontent among its more than 300,­000,000 of people striving for some ideal which they are trying to grasp. 
"In China 400,000,000 are in a con­tinuous state of disturbance and re­moval of constituted government has resulted in banditry, wanton destruc­tion of life and property, in all, a wiping out of a century of civiliza­tion. From the Eio Grande to Argen­tine, in order to reach some national aim, they have set up military domi­nation which destroys the peace, the prosperity, the comfort of the people, w^ith the consequence that in almost all parts of the world we inhabit, we find discontent and the disappoint­ment of the human race toward mod­em civilization. The only spot of peace and constituted authority is the United States of America, but we cannot hope to escape the calamity and confusions that have come over other parts of the world imless strong-characters, like you, guard the sacred traditions of our beloved nation. 
"What are these sacred traditions? First of all, morality. It is impossible for a democracy set up in the form of a republic to endure long if morality does not exist. The oijy sanction, the Ten Commandments having the di­nne personality of Jesus Christ, have been ruled out of the thoughts of a large portion of our people. There is a strong challenge today to the integ­rity of the Sixth Commandment, not only in the United States but all over the world. The Pope in his recent en­cyclical speaks to all the children of men on the very basis of Sixth Com­mandment morality. There is no bet­ter informed source in all the world than the Vatican, no authority with such a high concept of morality as the Supreme Pontiff of the Church, draiving on his most eminent ency­clical to warn the human race. 
"The United States has not escaped the evils of which I would speak. The Lambeth conference of Episcopal Bishops in London last year publicly decreed a certain moral application. So sweeping was the evil of that de­cree that it has swept over the world. The Fedei-ation of Churches recently in the United States approved all of the endorsements of the Lambeth con­ference. The Supreme Pontiff of the Catholic Church immediately came out with an encyclical for all the world correcting the mistakes of these or­ganizations and calling upon men to observe the Sixth Commandment. 'No man is permitted to prostitute his gifts and to frustrate the laws of God and of nature,' said the Pontiff, as he alluded to the use of contraceptives in the practice of birth control. 
"The outstanding feature of Notre Dame, a feature which distinguishes its course from that of all other American Universities, is a practical, 
concrete program of Ghiistian moral­ity and knowledge. Into the char­acter and personality of its students, it weaves the golden thieada of Clnis­
' tian attitude. Christian piety and habit, of ethical and spiritual knowl­edge. No university can make a con­tribution to American social and pub­lic life more valuable than this. Our social and economic relations cannot be improved except through the teach­ings and practices of religion. We have gone as far as we can in prog­ress and reform. We must now re-inform society with religion. If re­ligion and pious habits are permitted to pass from our American race, the progress and reform which we have already accomplished will vanish with them." 
Rain interfered with the beaatiful flag-raising ceremony on the Quad­rangle that traditionally follows the blessing of the JHag in the Church. 
The !^Tl""''l luncheon of the Mono­gram Club was held at 12 o'clock Sunday in the Lay Faculty Dining Room. The theme of the meeting ' this year was of course Knnte Rockne, outstanding monogram man, a friend of all and a teacher of the majority in the organization. The meeting resulted in the splendid deci­sion to make possible in the Rockne Memorial Field House a Monogram Room, that will serve as a head­quarters for monogram men and will be the "room of honor" of the struc­ture. 
At 1:30 several reels of films of the late Knute Rockne in his last in­terview, in Florida, and finally, the funeral films, were shown to a large group of alumni and guests in Wash­ington Hall. These films will be available for the Alumni Clubs at an early date. 
At 4:30 came the only successful academic procession which the weath­er permitted. The Class of 1931 pre­ceded by the faculty marched from the Main Building to the Gymnasium where the Commencement exercises were held. 
Following are the citations of the honorary degrees awarded by the University at this Commencement of 1931: 
The University announces the con­ferring of the degree of Doctor of Laws, Honoris Causa,: 
On a loyal alumnus of Notre Dame, prominent in his years at the Uni­versity as student and athlete, who by his ability, character and initia­tive has become 'one ot the leading railroad executives of today, recog­nized by the national government in the selection of him as treasurer of the United States Railroad Commis­
360 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS June, 1931 
sion in the recent •war-time — Angus Daniel McDonald, of New York City. 
On a lawj-er who exemplified in his life the virtues fundamental to jus­tice, wisdom, fairness and generos­ity—and a student of constitutional law whose ability as an advocate has given the courts of his State a place in the history of American juris­prudence, through a decision, basic and far-reaching, on the religious rights of men and citizens—^William Francis Wilson, of Oklahoma City, Okla. 
On the dean of American news­paper cartoonists, whose art for more than a quarter of a century been em­ployed as a most effective medium for enlightening public opinion and directing it into right channels, while it has at the same time won for him the fond regard of uncounted Amer­
ican citizens — John Tinney ' Mc-Cutcheon, of Chicago, 111. 
Announcement is also made of an honorary degree conferred at a spe­cial convocation of the faculty last 
Memorial Day Prosram 
(Following is the very iine Memo­rial Day program observ-ed on the University campus. May 30. The ALUMNUS would like very much to have the list of World War dead checked by those alumni who might be in a position to offer revision.) 
PROGRAM 
Military Field Mass at War Me­morial (East Entrance Sacred Heart Church)—Celebrant, Rev. Matthew 3. Walsh, C.S.C, Chaplain 30th Infan­trj', A. E. F. 
Address — Rev. Edward J. Finne­gan, C.S.C., Chaplain 139th M. G. B'n and 61st Infantry, A. E. F. 
Parade to Commtinitij Cemetery 
Marshal—Colonel William Hoynes, K.S.G., Dean Emeritus, College of Law, 20th Wisconsin Infantry and 2nd Wisconsin Cavalrj', Civil War. 
Aides — Major Benjamin DuBois, A.G.D.; Major Walter Clements, 327th Field Artillery. 
Chaplains 
Notre Dame Band — Director, Jo­seph J. Casasanta. 
Military Detail — 1st Lieutenant Robert B. Riordan, 327th Field Artil­lery. 
Color Guard from Co. "D," 152nd Infantry (South Bend). 
November but of record with the de­
grees of this commencement, the de­
gree of Doctor of Laws. 
On a man of letters recognized as the ablest and most influential in the English speaking world of today, and defender of the Christian tradition, whose keen mind, right heart, and versatile literary genius have been valiantly devoted to the eternal truth, goodness, and beauty, in liter­ature and in life — Gilbert Keith Chesterton, of London, England. 
Following the awarding of degrees to the graduates by the Deans of the respective Colleges, the Commence­ment address was delivered by Angus 
D. McDonald, '00. It is the particular pleasure of the ALUMNUS to be pri\-ileged to reprint this address in full in this issue. 
So closed the Eighty-Seventh Com­mencement, in every way a fitting successor to those which have pre­ceded it. Its tenor marks Notre Dame as a University in fact. Its program was representative of the achievements of higher education, Notre Dame's in particular. 


 Honors Notre Dame Dead 
Firing Squad from Co. "I," 152nd 
Infantrj- (South Bend). Visiting Veterans. 
Notre Dame Council No. 1477, 
Knights of Columbus, Professor Louis 
Buckley, Grand Knight. 
Student and Visitors. 
Ceremmiy at Graves of Deceased Members of the Notre Dame G. A. R. Post 
Decorations of Graves. 
Prayer for Nation's Dead — Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, Presi­dent of the University; Chaplain 332nd Infantry and 117th Engineers, 
A. E. F. Salute—^Firing Squad. "Taps"—Bugler. Returning the Colors (Administra­
tion Building Plaza). "Star Spangled Banner" — Notre Dame Band. 
Men TT/MJ Died in Service During the World War 
Alderman, D. A. L. Blum. Paul Burrcll. Lester Callers-. Sgt. Phillip Campbell. Capt. G. A. Clements, Sgt. Gerald Coker, Wallace Colby. Lt. Colbum Connor. William F. Conway. 'William DesnK)nd. Lt. James Egan. William Fitzgerald. Lt. Stephen Ffrench. Lt. Jasper Funke. Arthur Gayette. Edward Goyer, Frank Guilfoyle. George Hand. Gilbert P. Hammond. LeGrand Hayes. Arthur J. Hubbell, Laurence James, A. S. Kinsella. Joseph R. Loguc. Francis Liszewski. Casimir Lawrence. Charles B. Murphy. Charles 
Murphy, Capt. J. E. Miller. Donald litcAdams. Cp. G. C. McCausland. Capt. H. Mclnemy. Lt. Arnold McCann. William SrcKinnie, Gerald McPhee, Capt. Ray Nowers, Lt. Paul Olsen, George O'Rourke, Frank C. 0*Boyle, Lt. Desmond O'Laughlin. Lt. Geo. Parker. Eugene Reeve, Lt. Charles Ryan. George Smith, Lt. Clovis Smith. Charles Shanahan. Lt. James Stevens. Charles Sullivan. Lt. Melville Twining. Simon E. Truscott, Fred. P. W^agner, Cp. Robert Veazy, Edward "Wilmes. Carl Wojtalewicz. Peter 
Deceased Members of Notre Dame 
G. A. R. Post 
Rev. William Corby, Chaplain SSth N. Y. Infantry; Rev. James Dillon, Chaplain 63rd 
N. Y. Infantry: Hev. Paul E. Gillen. Chaplain 170th N. Y. Infantry: Rev. P. P. Cooney, Chaplain 35th Indiana Infantry; Rev. Joseph Carrier, Chaplain 6th Missouri Infantry; Rev. Edward T. Martin, United States Navy; Rev. Thomas Kennedy, Co. D., 13ith Pennsylvania Infantry; Rev. William Olmstead, Brigadier General. 1st Brigade. 2nd Division. Army of Potomac; Rev. F. Schmitt, Co. B, 100th Penn­sylvania Infantrj*: Rev. P. R. Brennan, 134th Pennsylvania Infantry: Rev. R. I, Boyle, Co. C, 137th N. Y. Infantry: Bro. Richard (R. Stoney), Co. A, 3Sth N. J. Infantry; Bro. Se­bastian (T. Martin), Troop I. 1st Pennsyl­vania Cavalry: Bro. Polycarp (James White). United States Na\T: Bro. Leander (James McLain), Co. B, 15th U. S. Infantry: Bro. Agatho (James Staley), Co. G. 8th Indiana Infantry: Bro. Ignatius (IgnatiusMeyers). Co. E, 75th Pennsylvania Infantry: Bro. Eusta­chius (John Mclnemy), Co. H, 83rd Ohio In­fantry: Bro. Benedict (Conrad Mantel). O). 
A," 1st Pennsylvania Hea\'y Artillery: Bro, Cosmas (N. Bath), Batterj- D. 2nd U. S. Light Artillery: Bro. John Chrysostom (Mark AVills), Co. I, o4th Pennsylvania Infantry: Bro. Raphael (James C. Malloy), Co. B. 133rd Pennsylvania Infantrj-. 
WAR MEMORIAL ENTRANCE 

June, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

Rockne Memorial To Be Field House At Notre Dame 
Tribute to Perpetuate Rockne's Interest in Physical Welfare of the General Student Group; Cost, Including Endowment, Estimated at Million. 
• (Announcement of this heroic me­morial to the memory of Knute K. Rockne, '14, was made at the Alum­ni Banquet, Saturday Night, June 6, to some 700 Notre Dame men, by the President of the University, Bev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C. Father O'Donnell's presentation, outlining all of the developments of the project, follows.) 
Immediately upon the death of Rockne, it was assumed by the gen­eral public that a worthy memorial to him would be erected at Notre Dame. Indeed, so great was the emotional reaction of the American public that proposals were made for various memorials. The Mayor of Chicago and the Mayor of New York gave public utterance to their pur­pose of erecting a memorial to him in their respective cities. The general trend of opinion, however, was that the Rockne Memorial should be at Notre Dame. Unsolicited gifts came in from various parts of the country toward the establishment of a fund for this Memorial. Thus, in one city, a small town in Michigan, fifty men and women each contributed a dollar and sent their joint offering to the University. Two or three newspapers opened their columns for subscrip­tions to this Fund. There was much other evidence of general interest, and even of determination, to promote the work of erecting a worthy Memo­rial to our departed leader. In other words, to the vast American public, it seemed not only the natural thing but the necessary thing for the whole country to pay tribute in some out­standing and lasting way to this ideal of the American public. 
Accordingly, we got together at Notre Dame a small group of Notre Dame men and Notre Dame friends and formed the Rockne Memorial As­sociation. This group was constituted of Mr. Frank E. Hering, President of the Alumni Association, Mr. James 
E. Armstrong, Secretary of the Alum­ni Association, Mr. J. Arthur Haley, Business Manager of Athletics, Mr. 
G. A. Farabaugh, Class of '04, Mr. Vitus G. Jones, Classes of '02 and '03, Mr. A. R. Erskine, President of the Studebaker Corporation and Pres­ident of the Board of Lay Trustees, Mr. Paul G. Hoffman, Treasurer of the Studebaker Corporation, Mr. Clif­ford M. Collins, Comptroller of the University, Very Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C, Provincial of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross, Rev. M. A. 
Mulcaire, C.S.C, Vice-President of the University, and myself. Articles of incorporation were drawn up and filed with the Secretary of State. 
The group which formed the Rockne Memorial Association, Incorporated, the result of much deliberation and discussion in several meetings held during the past ten weeks, have de­termined upon a course of action of 
THE LATE K. K. ROCKNE, '14 
"The memory of this man must not perish." 

which announcement is made for the first time tonight. We have decided to enter upon a nation-wide cam­paign to raise a fund of a million dollars, six hundred and fifty thou­sand of which will go to the erection of the Rockne Memorial Field House, and the three hundred and fifty thou­sand of which will go to its endow­ment. I realize that the mere an­nouncement of this purpose does not sell the idea, so to speak. I realize that in this year of depression grave 
misgiving may be expressed as to the wisdom of entering upon a proj­ect which, handsome though it is, may seem idealistic. I feel, however, it is due to them to say that, in the ten weeks' time which we have spent giving our most careful considera­tion to this project, the decision ar­rived at was unanimously concurred in by members of the Board. 
We carefully considered, for ex­ample, the proposal that the Notre Dame Stadium should be renamed the Rockne Memorial Stadium. We agreed that, on the face of it, this 
seemed to be a logical thing to do. We agreed that it was the easiest and the simplest thing to do. But we also thought that it was the cheapest and least honorable thing we could do. Why? First of all, the Stadium is an accomplished fact. It was not erected as a memorial to Rockne, and changing its name would represent sacrifice on nobody's part to do him honor. It would not sat­isfy the general disposition on the part of his friends and admirers everywhere to perpetuate his memory worthily. On the face of things, I have said, it seemed a logical thing to do. Looking more deeply into the matter, the logic of that proposal is open to question. After all, what is a stadium ? It is a place for the pub­lic exhibition of one sport. It stands idle 360 days of the year. It is not for the use of the students of the University, nor is it for the use of the men of the football team. On four or five afternoons a year, for two hours or so, it is a place where football is played. There would be no such institution as a stadium of the proportions of the Notre Dame Stadium were it not for interest in the game of football going beyond the bounds of college life. Merely" to change the name of our Stadium and to consider that Notre Dame had thereby done its duty by Rockne, that Rockne's friends and admirers had thereby paid adequate tribute to him, that the whole sport-loving world of America had thus satisfied their obligation of honoring him, was to us unthinkable. We did not lose sight of the fact that Rockne was the greatest football coach of his day. We are ready to admit that Rockne may be the greatest football coach of all time. But he was so big, and his appeal was so varied and he stood for so much in all departments of college sport, we felt his memory should not be narrowed and limited to the particular sport of football. He was vitally interested in all forms of athletic and recreational activity at Notre Dame. He saw the need which this particular memorial is de­signed to fill. It was part of his own plan for the development of athletics 
. at Notre Dame that there should be here in due time, and the sooner the better, a building that would provide athletic and recreational facilities for the undergraduate body as a whole and not merely those students who were trying out for the varsity sports. Knowing his own mind on this subject, we are certain that we are carrying out a wish and a hope and a dream of his own in the erec­tion of a field house. In erecting his Field House as our Memorial to him, we feel that we are but keeping faith with the dead. 
It is expected, that Notre Dame men everywhere will be particularly interested in this project and give it all the support they can muster. At the same time, by no means is it assumed that Notre Dame only, or Notre Dame men chiefly, will build this Field House. If Notre Dame men directly are responsible for one-tenth of this fund, and indirectly helpful in raising the remaining nine-tenths, the Rockne Memorial Associa­tion, Incorporated, will be satisfied. 
I am happy to announce that the Monogram Club, at a meeting held yesterday, pledged themselves to the creation in this Field House of a Monogram Club Headquarters which should be the special Memorial fea­ture of this Field House, the sancta sanctorum, so to speak, of the Me­morial. I am happy further to an­nounce that a graduate of the Notre Dame School of Architecture, Maurice Carroll, of Kansas City, Missouri, Class of '19, has pledged his firm to the planning of this Field House at the actual cost of blue prints and specifications. In other words, in­stead of asking the usual architects' fee of six percent, Maurice Carroll offers to do this work at two and one-half percent, whicli is the equiv­alent of a donation of $22,750.00. 
Much has been said and written of Eockne. Perhaps more has been said, and written of him than of any man who has died within the memory of any of us present here. There is something more stiU to be said: I am thinking of Eockne as a Notre Dame man. I mean, Rockne as an alumnus and his attitude toward the school as an alumnus, has never yet to my mind received adequate recognition. I do not know how I can bring this before you more clearly, more poig­nantly, than by reading for you the last letter I received from Eockne. It was ivritten less than twenty-four hours before his death. It was dic­tated in my office. Eockne came to see me Monday afternoon, March 30th, before leaving for Kansas City on his way to the Coast. He had been offered ?50,000.00 to take part in a moving picture which was to represent the. Spirit of Notre Dame. I happened to be in Chicago, and there was no chance for the final con­ference which he hoped to have with me. He laid on my desk a letter offering him this contract, and dic­tated to my secretary the following note: "Dear Father: 
The enclosed letter speaks for it­self. I came up to see you and found you would be out of town for the day. I leave this matter entirely in your hands. They have offered me fifty thousand (§50,000) dollars for this proposition, which, however, doesn't interest me at all. The only thing is I thought perhaps there might be a chance to put out a picture that might be instructive and educational as regards Notre Dame in every sense of the word. 
Please wire me collect at the Hotel Biltmore, Los Angeles, where I wiU be Wednesday. 
Sincerely yours, 
EOCK 

In this work-a-day world, we are accustomed to rate loyalty to prin­ciples and ideals by what they cost. Here was a Notre Dame man offered for a few weeks of pleasant diversion an amount of money five times that of his annual salary at Notre Dame. He had a family to provide for, and he no doubt realized that his work­ing years might be few. Only a year before, he had been gravely ill, in­capacitated for active duty. Yet, with a gesture, he was ready to set this handsome offer aside if the Uni­versity authorities should question the wisdom of allowing this picture to be made. There was a Notre Dame alumnus virtually making a donation of §50,000.00 to a Notre Dame ideal. It is something that no Notre Dame alumnus can ever forget. It is something that I, as President of this University of which you and I are graduates, treasure as among the happy experiences of my life. 
I said at the beginning that this announcement is not made to sell the idea of the Eockne Memorial Field House to this body of alumni. I have wanted you to know simply some­thing of the spirit in which the mem­bers of the Rockne Memorial Asso­ciation, Incorporated, approached this question. Having committed ourselves to this undertaking, we are going in­to it with all the power we have. It cannot fail; Notre Dame will not let it fail. The financial depression, seri­ous as it is, is a matter only of the moment when you look at the years that are to come, and when better times come, as come they must, it will be all the more to the glory of the Eockne Memorial Association and the glory of Notre Dame and the glory of Eockne that our faith did not fail and that this good thing and handsome thing was done, not out of our abundance but out of our neces­sity. Man liveth not by bread alone and the memory of tWs man must not perish. 
Law Reunion Scores Success 
Legal Alumni Meet at Buffet Lunch­eon; Senior Lawyers Inducted; Col. Hoynes Speaks. 
Hopes entertained on the campus for the success of the first general reunion of Law alumni were just about 50% of the success actually achieved. 
Professor Clarence Manion, newly-elected Vice-President of the Alumni Association, was general chairman of the Reunion. Colonel William J. Hoynes, K. S. G., dean emeritus of the College of Law, and Thomas Konop, dean, were honorary chair­men. One general notice was broad­cast to Notre Dame lawyers on rec­ord, and the ALUMNUS carried sev­eral stories preceding Commencement. 
The Senior Law Class entered into the idea w^ith a most encouraging unanimity, agreeing to act as a recep­tion coimnittee for the returning law­yers. One hundred and twenty-five cards were returned to the Chairman, signifying attendance at the luncheon. 
Two hundred and fifty were present! 

The affair was planned with the primary purpose of acquainting the Law alumni with each other, with the faculty, with the new College of Law building, and with the graduating class. Necessarily it was informal. 
The only address was by the be­loved Colonel, who was introduced to an altogether familiar audience, rep­resenting almost every Law Class of the past forty years, by C. C. Mitchell, LL.B. '02. The Colonel's always felicitous expresions were wel­comed with equal enthusiasm by those who enjoyed his personal teach­ing and those later students who have known him through all too few con­tacts as the Law School's great con­tribution to the glorious traditions of Notre Dame. 
A feature of the Reunion was the active participation of the Class of 1931. Led by Joseph Yoch, St. Louis, Mo., president of the Law Class, and Joseph Guadnola, Glenwood Springs, Colo., editor of the Notre Dame Law­yer, the seniors were actively behind the preparation of the event. They acted as a reception committee to escort the returned alumni through the new College of Law Building, and were formally inducted into the Law Alumni at the luncheon. 
Now that the lawyers have fore­gathered in legal conclave. Chairman Manion reports that promising rum­blings are already in the offing for annual repetitions of the event. 
The luncheon this year was a cour­tesy to the lawyers from the Univer­sity. 
Jime, 1931 363 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 



Frank Hayes^ '14^ Association's New President 
Chicago Banker Heads New Board; Problems Presented at Annual Meeting Promise New Officers Active Year; N. D. Professor is Vice-President 
Francis H. Hayes, '14, vice-presi­dent of the Union Bank of Chicago, Secretary of the Class of 1914, was elected President of the Alumni Asso­ciation at the Annual Meeting, June 7, 1931. Mr. Hayes, for the past sev­eral years, has been particularly in­terested in the possibilities of the financing plan now in force under the term "Living Endowment." He has made a careful study of the history of this plan at a number of other uni­vei-sities and is very well informed in this particular field. This does not mean to underestimate his knowledge of alumni affairs generally. He has been Secretary of the Class of 1914, keeping in contact with the men of that year well above the average for Class Secretaries. Hardly a month has passed without an official note for the '14 column. He has attended Commencement exercises, has con­ferred with the national officers pre­vious to the introduction of Living Endowment, and is very familiar with Local Club activities through the fine example of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, of which he is a member. All in all, he promises to make an excellent executive to carry out the splendid plans of organization formu­lated during Mr. Hering's administra­tion. 
Eev. John A. Macnamara, '97, the honorary president, is holding a most merited position. Father John's health forces him to be away from his Garden City, L. L, parish about half the year. He comes out to Mount Clemens, Mich., for rest, and usually finds occasion to test his strength with a trip or two to Notre Dame. He is a Notre Dame man in eveiy sense of the word, is most informed in the various departments of Club, Class and general alumni activity, and is also Secretary of his Class. 
Clarence Manion, '22, professor of law at the University, is the new vice-president. Probably one person knows him as Clarence where a hundred will hail him as "Pat." Coming to Notre Dame well under the influence of edu­cation, he added a J. D. here in 1922, in the meantime establishing himself as a brilliant scholar, a talented musi­cian, and a prince of good fellows. It has been the University's good for­tune to keep him on the faculty. He has written a widely approved Ameri­can History text, is a leading student and speaker in the field of constitu­tional law, and is one of the political figures of the very politically-minded state of Indiana. 
Walter Duncan, '12, LaSalle, 111., resigned just before Commencement as Treasurer. The ALUMNUS is pleased to report that no attention was paid to the resignation. Eeally, not as bad as that—the justice of Walter's claim to relief was recog­nized, and the new Board is pledged to relieve the disproportionate burden that now rests on the Treasurer. But a more capable, quiet and efficient manager for the Association's funds, which are growing even if not so rapidly, could not have stepped into the shoes of the veteran Warren A. Cartier. Walter has been imposed upon annually, and has made only the mildest and minimum suggestions for reform. 
Robert E. Lynch, '03, Green Bay, Wis., is the regularly elected Director beginning a four-year term. Bobby, as he is better known to a host of friends, was one of the stars of Notre Dame's baseball firmament when the school was famous as a Big League nursery. He captained the team in 1901-2, and went from Notre Dame baseball into the Big League with the Philadelphia team of the National League. He is one of the pioneers in the Fox River Valley Club, the section about Green Bay, from whence have come so many outstanding Notre Dame men. 
John F. O'Connell, '13, Chicago, was elected in a special vote to suc­ceed the late Peter P. McElligott. From the varied and popular career he enjoyed in the literary, athletic and fraternal circles at Notre Dame, besides his law, there is little wonder that Judge O'Connell was one of the youngest men to be elected to the bench in Chicago and that he. fulfilled that position with ability and honor. Under the terms of the election he has three years on the Board, years that will undoubtedly contribute much to the building up of the greater Association that seems inevitable for the Greater Notre Dame. 
No little source of pleasure and con­fidence for the new Board is the hold­ing over of three informed, able, and vitally interested alumni. M. Harry Miller, '10, Cleveland, the formidable "Ked" of one of Notre Dame's great­est traditions, has served three years on the Board most creditably and con­structively. He has another year in which to aid in the shaping of the new policies. Paul McGannon, '07, New York City, has had difficulty in attending personally to his work with the Board. But there is no hesitation in the statement that Paul has kept astonishingly well informed concern­ing the progress of the Association, and has aided remarkably in the counsels of the Board from his obser­vations and contacts on the Eastern front. The third important officer to be retained for the coming year is the retiring President, Frank E. Hering, '98. His experience as a Notre Dame man, athlete, coach, member of the faculty, and member of the Board of Lay Trustees would in itself make him invaluable. His work with fra­ternal organizations, his talents as a leader, an orator, an editor, and his prominence as a power in the social legislation of this country, make him even more priceless as one of the irre­placeable assets of the Association. 
The Alumni Secretary's position is . subject to the action of the.Board. 
364 THE NoTRK DAME ALUMNUS June, 19S1 
• llllllltllDllllllIltll • •lllllllltl«lllltlllMIIIIIIMIMIII>lllllltttlllillt •••MtlUilMrflMIIMIIIMMtl)MMntnilUlUltllMIH)IIMIItllltllMllllllltlll1l)tM*t)llll«M«l) • •Q 
E" 
DITORIAL^ 

lllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllUlltllllllltlllMIIIIIUMIIIIItlUIII ..Q 
PROGRESS 

Four stages of progress are now embraced in the his­tory of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame. We are in the fourth as a result of the 1931 Com­mencement and Annual Meeting. Appropriately, it prom­ises to be a far-reaching advance. 
The first stage was inaugurated in 1868 when the for­mation of the Alunmi Society of Notre Dame was con­summated in preparaiton for the observance of the Silver Jubilee of the University which had been set for 1869, twentj'-five years after the granting of the charter. The total number of degrees awarded, to that date, was eighty-four. In that year the alumni society published a history of Notre Dame as a Memorial of the Jubilee. 
In the pressure of those pioneer days of Notre Dame, with the great fire and its accompanying problems, the first society of alunmi did not flourish from the organiza­tional viewpoint. 
But the seed had not fallen on barren ground. 
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C, President of the Uni­versity, issued, on February 10, 1908, a general letter to all Notre Dame alumni, calling them together for the 1908 Commencement to perfect a new alumni association. The total number of living graduates at that time was between six and seven hundred. Half of these promised to return. Interest in the project was intense. 
The significant phase of this second stage was the encouragement and the formation of Local Alumni Clubs. In 1908 there were Local Alumni Clubs in New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Portland, and Dayton, 0. 
It was at the beginning of this second stage that such familiar names as Hon. William P. Breen, elected presi­dent in 1908, Eev. Michael A. Quinlan, secretarj-, Hon. Warren A. Cartier, treasurer, Hon. Charles P. Neill, and Byron Kanaley, appear—names of men who carried this new organization through seventeen successful years. This second period was marked by the raising of the Old Students Hall Fund, more than $60,000 in cash and an almost equal amount in pledges, which was turned over to the University's building and endowment campaign in 1922, and which has merited for alumni the title given one of the beautiful new residence halls now under con­struction—^Alumni Hall. 
The Association thrived during these years with the 
remarkable contribution of executive ability made annual­
ly by officers who received only the satisfaction of service 
for their pains. Obviously, as the numbers grew and the 
scope broadened, duties of these officers became more 
complex. 

The third stage had its inception in. the appointment 
of a committee at the 1923 Annual Meeting to revise the existing constitution. The conmiittee consisted of F. Henry Wurzer, '98, chairman, Aaron Huguenard, '22, Francis O'Shaughnessy,''00, and Eev. John C. McGinn, '06. The actual functioning of the new order began at the Annual Meeting in 1925, when the submitted new Con­stitution was adopted. 
During the past six years, the Association has reached maturity imder the provisions of the Constitution of 1925 —an Alumni Office, an Alumni Secretary, an Alumni Magazine,—in short, the fundamentals recognized at that time as requisite for a full-time, centralized Alumni As­sociation. 
These fundamentals no longer satisfy the needs. 
More alumni have come into the association since 1925 than in the entire preceding period. 
Local Alumni Clubs have doubled in number. 
For six years the Alumni Office has borne the detailed burden of the management of the Association. The Treas­urer, unremunerated, has handled steadily increasing fi­nancial problems. Both offlces have reached the limit of their possibilities, in theorj' as well as practice. 
The Treasurer cannot, and ought not, handle reports that require almost two days each week of an assistant's time, without compensation. Nor can, or should, the exec­utive management of the increasingly serious problems of the Association rest solely upon the Alumni Secretary. In these two practical aspects of the conduct of the .A.s­sociation the need for change is most evident, and most urgent. 
Further needs can be correlated—changes in the elec­tion plan; increase and equalization of representation; greater recognition of the Clubs; and so on. 
The third stage has served an invaluable purpose. It took the fine timber of the two earlier stages, planed and smoothed it and joined it together in a strong, smooth flooring. 
It is time to erect a structure above it. 
The Annual Meeting of 1931 empowered and directed the new President to appoint a committee of three to re­vise tiie present Constitution to meet the immediate and future problems that have come with the development of the third stage. 
This is being done quickly. Eest assured that, under 
President Hayes and the Directors of the Association, it 
will be done ably. The sole motive is the advancement of 
the interests of the Association, that it may most effec­
tively serve the University and the alumni. 
The fourth period is begun. If it upholds the tradi­
tions of the past and fulfills the promises of the future, 
your participation will be amply repaid. 
June, 1931 TH E NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
Report OF The Twenty-Fourth Annual Alumni Meeting 
(Dating from the re-organization of the Association in 1908.) 
From the standpoint of numbers in attendance the meeting was a flop. 
Prom the standpoint of significance to the Association, it was perhaps the most important in its history. 
From the standpoint of the interest and representation of those few who were present, it was very successful 
The first statement, while regret­table, had its distinct value. It proved, first, that the time of the meeting is not suitable. It proved further that the destinies of the Association ought not, in theory, to rest in the hands of this haphazard minority. With Byron Kanaley, Father Mike Moriarty, An­gus McDonald, John Costello, Harry Miller, Walter Duncan, Danny Hil­gartner, and a number of others of the "old guard" on hand, red revolu­tion is not to be feared. But the pos­sibilities that some time these men cannot be there, that some group, well-meaning but uninformed, might come, not see, and still conquer, was a perfect setting for the report of the retiring President, Frank E. Hering. 
In a brief summary of the year, Mr. Hering outlined his almost weekly conferences with the Alumni Secre­tary, his disappointment at the fail­ure of the organization to function even in fundamental fashion, as evi­denced by his failure to receive even an acknowledgement of letters he sent personally at the beginning of his administration to all Club presidents and secretaries. He praised the work of Walter Duncan, treasurer, as a contribution which had become too great to expect from that officer. Similarly he pointed out the increased complexity of the work of the Alumni Office as he had studied it during the year and the difficulties involved un­der the present order. He cited the poor attendance at the meeting as an example of the carelessness of the present organization. 
With this background, Mr. Hering, in that beautiful and powerful man­ner that has placed him among the great orators of America, launched a constructive program for the Associa­tion, based on a meeting of the Board of Directors on the previous day, that represented one of the most analytical, most valuable, criticisms of the Alum­ni Association it has been the Asso­ciation's good fortune to enjoy. 
He suggested that the present Board of Directors, powerless under the present Constitution, be made to represent the alumni in a definite, geographic way, through the district­ing of the country and the apportion­ing of a director to each district. He envisioned this director as a responsi­ble agent of the mutual interests of the Alumni Association and the group of its constituents he represents— bringing to the annual meeting the sentiment of his district, and carry­ing to the district the plans of the Association. The ramifications of the district theory of course involve the possibilities of district meetings, joint Club programs in various sections. 
PRANK E . HEBING, '98, '02 
Retiring President 

visits of national officers to such a district meeting at great saving of time and expense, closer contact of the Alumni Office with the Clubs through this director, the stimulating of Club officers at closer range through the co-operation of the Director, and many other obvious advantages. 
Under the suggested re-organiza­tion the present generalized electoral system could be altered to permit the election of a particular man that the program of the Association might profit most from, regardless of the man's wide acquaintance among the alumni. For example, one year a man of aggressive business experience might serve best, the ne.\t year a man with a colorful athletic background, a third one with outstanding cultural qualities, and so on. The board of directors, if chosen by districts and supported as pictured, would be able to make a very rational and profit­able selection. The growing program of the Association makes this need more vital in the coming few years than it has ever been. 
As a result of Mr. Hering's elo­quent and logical address, the follow­ing resolution, presented by Mr. Her­ing and seconded by Byron Kanaley, was unanimously passed: 
"Resolved, that the newly elected president is authorized and directed to appoint, by July 11, 1931, a com­mittee of three to draft such addi­tions and amendments to the Consti­tution of the Alnmni Association of the University of Notre Dame as will provide for the recommendations of the Board of Directors submitted at this meeting. Such additions and amendments after receiving the ai>­proval of the Board of Directors of the Association shall be published in the October and November, 1931, issues of the ALUMNUS. Ballots with return post cards shall be mailed all members of the - Association not later than December 1, 1931. The poll shall close February 15, 1932, and if a two-thirds majority of the vote cast favors the additions and ainendments, they shall be in force and effect im­mediately, and the officers of the Alnmni Association shall see that their provisions are complied with." 
The Class of 1931, pressed on all sides by crowded events of the pro­gram, was not as prominently in evi­dence at the Annual Meeting as the Classes of other years, but this ag^n rather supported the contention that the hour is not ideal. Byron Kanaley welcomed the Class with a few re­marks, expressing the ideal attitude of the present depression as "a game fish loves to swim upstream." 
Paul Castner introduced an idea whereby the Local Clubs may secure photostatic copies of a compilation of newspaper material on Bockne's death compiled originally by Mr. Erskine for Mrs. Rockne and the University. The matter was referred to the Board upon motion of Mr. Hering, seconded by George Coury, '28. 
Byron Kanaley presented to the Meeting, in the absence of George Maypole, '03, a bound volume of a beautiful resolution of sympathy passed by the Council of the City of Chicago on the death of Knute K. Bockne. 
The Treasurer's annual report was adopted, as follows: 
Receipts 

1930 May 26—^Balance on hand ? 309.29 1931 June 6—Dues collected-9,843.00 
Alunmns subscriptions . 53.00 
Advertising 2,209.41 
Miscellaneous receipts 34.13 
Interest on bond 58.50 
Transfer from Living 
Endowment Fund _ 2,500.00 
$15,007.33 
Disbiirsements 

June 6—Salaries .$ 6,060.07 Publishing Alomnus . 4,516.71 Stamps, etc 773.93 Office supplies . 1,579.75 
*Mi£celIaneous expense 2,350.07 

515,280.53 Overdraw-n ? 273.20 'Miscellaneous expense includes sec­retary's traveling expense, commis­sions on advertising, office equipment, 
etc 
The Secretary's Report was adopt­

ed. It is reprinted separately. 
The following Resolution of Con­

dolence was presented by a committee 
consisting of Byron V. Kanaley, '04, 
C. E. Dorais, '14, and Rev. John Mac­namara, '97: 
Resolution 

Whereas God in His wisdom has taken from this life: Hark M. Foote, 1873,- Rev. Stanislaus Bilecki, 1920; Alphonse J. July, 1926; William T. Johnson, 1868; Richard T. O'Connor, 1873; Bro. Alphonsus, C.S.C, 1884; Col. Joseph Cusack, 1889; William P. McPhee, 1890; Rev. J. H. Guendling, 1914; Francis O'Shaughnessy, 1900; Bro. Matthew, C.S.C, 1917; Rudolph Geoghegan, o.s. 1919; M. M, Mel­sheimer, o.s. '23-'26; Wilbur Kingseed, 1929; Rev. Paul JMiller, C.S.C, 1924; Thomas A. Quinlan, 1904; Harrington J. Noon, 1930; John 5L Gearin, 1871; Edward H. Jewett, 1894; Dr. John S. Boyer, 1920; Gerard B. Kremp, 1924; George Kuppler, 1902; Peter P. Mc-Elligott, 1902; Rt. Rev. Msgr. Francis 
J. Van Antwerp, 1914; Charles P. Somers, 1915; Dr. John Weibel, 1925; Joseph L. Hepburn, '87-'89; Norman Steyskal, 1927; Clarence T. Hagerty, 1890; Harold W. Halpin, 1928; Joseph 
L. Prelli, 1928; Dr. Louis T. Pirn, 1889; Knute K. Rockne, 1914; Coyne Hatten, 1926; Judge Martin J. Wade, 1916, loyal and devoted members of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association during the past year, and 
Whereas those members have served their Alma Mater with glory in their respective avocations. 
Be it resolved that this Association extend its heartfelt sympathy to the relatives Avith promise of prayers that the same God in His mercy will be generous to their souls and grant them that eternal rest which we all so earnestly seek. 
Be it further resolved that an expression of the above be written on the official records of the Alumni As­sociation and a copy be sent to the bereaved relatives. 
Respectfully submitted, Byron Kanaley, Chairman 
C. E. Dorais Rev. John Macnamara. 

The following men were elected to membership in the Association upon motion of the Board of Directors as follows: 
The Board of Directors moves that the following individuals, having been students of the University of Notre Dame, and having applied personally, or through friends who are members of the Association, for membership in the Association, this application hav­ing been investigated and approved by the Board of Directors, be admitted to the Association as members, upon the payment of the annual dues: Paul J. Anderson, o.s. '21-'25; E. Bradley Bailey, o.s. '09-'22; Dr. Robert J. Bums, o.s. '17; Frederick A. Cas­sinelli, o.s. '12; A. K. Clay, o.s.'09-'15; Heni-y W. Clement, o.s. '24-'25; Leo F. Craig, o.s. '03-'04; Robert B. Cum­mins, O.S. '23-'26; Henry P. Degen, 
o.s.
 '08-'O9; Richard S. Dougan, o.s. '93-'94; William T. Flynn, o.s. '95; Emil Fritch, '12-'13; Louis C Fritch, 

o.s.
 '04-'15-'19; Rev. Leo C. Gainor, 


0. P., O.S.—two years; Frank D. Hayes, o.s.—3% years; Charles A. Gibbons, o.s. '26-'28; Fred J. Heneg­han, '18-'26; F. Joseph HoIIeran; Martin B. Herbert, '96-'01; Henry E. Hensenkamp, o.s. '26-'28; Robert Bu­ford Hill, O.S. '19; Carl Hillenbrand, 
o.s. '27; C J. James, '15-'17; Fred Joyce, o.s. '19; Dr. Kelvin A. Kasper, 
O.S. '20-'22; Ed. Keenan, o.s. '24; Dr. William J. Johnson, o.s. '86-'88; Phil Kiley, o.s. '18-'19; John W. Keelin, 
o.s.
 '22-'23; Art Lea Mond, o.s. '15-'17; Louis A. DeLone, o.s. '99-'03; Edward F. McGrath, o.s. '19; Joseph 

W.
 McKenna, o.s. '14-'18; E. J. Mc-Erlain, o.s. '90-'91; Francis P. Mc­Fadden, o.s. '2l-'25; William B. Mc­Donald, o.s. '14-'17; Fred Mancuso, 


O.S. '20-'21; Frank Miles, o.s. '18-'21; Hayes Murphy, o.s. '24-'27; John T. Neeson, o.s. '83-'84; Edwin J. Quinn, 
o.s. '21; Eugene E. Raymond, o.s. '26­'29; E. Clark Riley, o.s. '15-'17; Leonard Smith, o.s. '04-'05-'06; Archie Ward, O.S. '16-'19; Robert J. Wend-land, O.S. '11-'12; Raymond T. Mc-Nally, O.S. '28-'29; Robert Huetz, '26­'28; Thomas R. Purcell, '27-'28. 
The Tellers Committee, appointed previous to the meeting by President Hering, consisting officially of E. C McHugh, '13, chairman, Simeon T. Flanagan, '14, and Jasper Lawton, '11, had to call in extra help to count the Ballots and their numerous di­visions. The Committee reported the results of the election as follows: 
Honorary President, Rev. John A. MacNamara, '97, Garden City, L. L President, Francis H. Hayes, '14, Union Bank of Chicago, Chicago, HI. Vice - President, Clarence Manion, 
'22, Notre Dame, Ind. Treasurer, Walter Duncan, '12, La-Salle, ni. 
Director (4-year term), Robert E. LjTich, '03, 113% N. Washington St., Green Bay, Wis. 
Director (3-year term to succeed 

P. P. McEUigott, deceased) John F. O'Connell, '13, 160 N. La Salle St., Chicago, m. 
Frank E. Hering, '98, retiring pres­ident, becomes a member of the Board for the current year, ex officio. 
The Alumni Secretary is appointed by the Board. 
M. Harry Miller, '10, Cleveland, and T. Paul McGannon, '07, New York City remain as Directors. 
George M. Maypole, '03, Chicago, retired at Commencement after four years service on the Board. 
The following alumni were an­nounced as the Association's choices for members of the Board of Lay Trustees: Byron V. Kanaley, '04, Chi­cago; Angus D. McDonald, '00, New York City; Francis C. Walker, '09, New Y^ork City; George M. Anson, 
•95, Merrill, Wis.; C. C. Mitchell, '02, Chicago, ni. Mr. Mitchell will fill the vacancy on the Board caused by the death of the late William P. Breen. Two members were elected in the regular order of the Board and two were elected to add to the mem­bership of the Board as a result of the last meeting of that organiza­tion, creating a total membership of 16, eight of whom are alumni. 
The Amendment proposed carried, 640 for, 2 against. With the provi­sion made for a general readjustment, the difficulty aimed at would prob­ably have been eliminated anyhow. 
The new President, Frank Hayes, took the chair. Father Moriarty moved a standing vote of apprecia­tion for the work which Frank Hering had done for the Association and in recognition of the universal love and admiration for him among Notre Dame men. Byron Kanaley spoke in support of the motion, characterizing the retiring president as a Notre Dame man of all time.' The motion was of course unanimously carried. 
John Costello, nominated with Frank Hayes as candidate for the presi­dency, spoke in congratulation to the new president, promising his con­tinued support and urging the mem­bers of the Association to promote the program of the new administra­tion. 
A motion was made that the An­nual Meeting be held at some more suitable time, subject to the action of the Board of Directors. It was seconded and carried. The discussion evolved the suggestion that the Alum­ni Banquet could incorporate the comparatively short business fea­tures, with the customary recognition of the Reunion speakers at the Ban­quet transferred to separate Class functions. 
President Hayes gave a very short inaugural talk, emphasizing his per­sonal interest in the Living Endow­ment, his encouragement at the show­ing of the first year in amount, his hopes that the number of contributors might be substantially increased this year, and his wish that the Associa­tion might co-operate in this vital project. 
A motion for adjournment was en­tertained, and passed. 
Frank E. Hering Honored On Mother's Day 
Retiring Alumni President Lauded for Idealism; Impressive Ceremonies at Indianapolis and Arlington. 
MOTHER 

The flowers that are put Will bring no smile upon her breast to lips forever chilled. 
Will shed no fragrance Today, the petals when her heart is stilled. of a waijside rose 
The praise ive whisper, Will lure awat/ when she lies at rest. 
a multitzide of ^voes. 

-By FRANK E. HERING. Father o£ Mothers' Day. 
Frank E. Hering, whose activities in many national fields are familiar to his fellow Notre Dame men, was the recipient of additional outstand­ing honors on Sunday, May 10. 
At Indianapolis, the Fraternal Or­der of Fagles, who originally spon­sored Mother's Day through Mr. Her-ing's leadership, unveiled a tablet to him in the English Opera House, where, on February 7, 1904, he de­livered the first address on record advocating a national observance of a day honoring the nation's mothers. 
In Arlington cemetery, at the tomb of the Unknown Soldier, simultane­ously with the Indianapolis observ­ance, Mrs. Virgil McClure, president of the American War Mothers, which organization has honored Mr. Hering as founder of Mother's Day, read an address prepared by Mr. Hering. 
The ALUMNUS is pleased to pre­sent herewith a eulogy of this great work of a great alumnus, delivered at the Indianapolis ceremony, by an­other eloquent alumnus of Notre Dame, Father John Cavanaugh: 
In the capital of the nation the gratitude of a generous people has lifted up a noble monument to the daring navigator who first sailed the uncharted seas, who out of his cour­age and wisdom gave to the world an­other continent and to humanity an­other hero. But the discerning way­farer, as he stands in the shadow of that majestic pile feels that only half the story has been told; -and that, side by side with the monument to Columbus, should be lifted up an­other of Isabella of Castile, the glor­ious queen who made Columbus pos­sible. President Taft once told me that the world will never know how much of the success of any adminis­tration is due to the wisdom, the vir­tue, the courage of the Prseident's wife. A few years ago there passed away one of the Wright brothers, the Columbus of the clouds, the bril­liant young narigator who iirst dove with his airship the billows of the sky. It was only then that the world learned how much of the success of their large enterprise was due to the constancy, the courage, the noble gen­erosity of their sister Catherine— 
Catherine, the little country school­teacher, who when her brothers, working in their poor blacksmith shop, were tempted to discourage ment and despair, regularly put into their hands her meager salarj- and into their hearts the faith and strength on to victory. 
Noble men in every age have in­deed taught glorious lessons, but it is the destiny of every woman, what­ever her sphere, to be a teacher. Whether she adopts teaching as a means of livelihood in the public schools, or as a consecrated nun. 
368 June, 1931
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNTJS 
turning away from home and friends and domestic happiness, dedicates her pure heart and her shining face to the vocation of teaching in the clois­ter; or whether, as the virtuous mother of children, she becomes the heart of a happy home—^her vocation is always and" ine^^tably that of an exemplar and a teacher. 
The Blessed Mother of Christ Since, the day when Holy Mary first 

- gathered her heavenly Babe to her bosom and breathed the perfume of her breath into the roses of His cheeks, woman has been the great lover of Christ. Since the day when Holy Mary followed her Divine Son through the Streets of the holy city —hounded like a criminal, deserted by the Apostles, clothed only in His blood and in His shame, woman has been the great follower of Christ. Since the day when Holy Mary first taught her beatiful Boy the first simple lessons of life—He, the mighty God who whispers in the thunder. Whose ser\-ants are the lightning bolts of heaven; He, whose chemistry is the rainbow, Whose mathematics are the orbits of the stars, Who washed the lily in eternal snows and dipped the rose into the molten sun­set, Who wrote the story of the uni­verse in the strata of the earth and folded them up like the pictured pages of a book ... . He deigned to spell His way through the elements of our scant wisdom at the knees of His Blessed Mother and since that day women have been the teachers of all holy and beautiful lessons. 
All good men idealize- women, and this is why all men worthy of the name are grieved when women are less ideal than they might be. It is because men want something to look up to, something to admire, to love and to serve with chivalry that they so poignantly feel the desecration of womanhood through thoughtlessness, boldness, coarseness, vulgarity, im­modesty, or whatever else cheapens and degrades woman or destroys her sweet elusive charm and her almost sacramental power. 
The War Mothers 
Turning his attention to the war mothers, many of whom served as nurses in the great wars of the past and all of whom bore a grievous bur­den through pains of worrj' and he­roic privation, more notably even in the Civil War than in the recent World War, Father Cavanaugh paid a tribute to the enduring bonds es­tablished between the wounded sol­diers and the noble women who nursed their wounds. 
"The pathetic remnants of the Grand Army of the Eepublic, scat­tered over the country, are mystically present to glorify this day. They 
halt and stumble as they march, and their blanched faces and their thin and wasted figures proclaim that the envious years have sucked from their veins the rich liquor of their young red blood. They have grown old in all respects save one, for within their hearts, imperishable as human gratitude, immortal as human love, perennial as the stars, they cherish the beautiful memory of the mothers who labored for them in privation and devotion. In fancy I see' the dim legions of the past drawn up around their graves. With solemn pride these wraith-like armies, long since gathered into eternity, lift their hands in solemn salutation. Peace to their souls and may they all, the mothers and the soldiers, hold happy reunion in the fields of heaven. 
Tribute to Frank E. Hering 

Not quite thirty years have sped since the clarion voice of young elo­quence shook the vaults and ceiling of this beautiful House with a burn­ing appeal for national honors to motherhood. Like the patriot's shot in the early Revolutionary days, that voice was heard around the world. It was heard particularly under Amer­ican skies, and today the hearts of our country thrill in sympathy with the pleadings of the youthful orator, who remembering the beauty and holiness of his own mother, yearned that all the mothers of America should be honored as he would honor his. As if by magic his pleading touched the world, and today we like to believe there is not a mother in America whose heart does not throb more happily, whose eyes do not shine more brightly, whose soul is not sweetened and refreshed and youthened by extra tribute of love, reverence and devotion. The man that has set this beautiful crown on the motherhood of the world deserves to be honored as a great figure in a world that has been made beautiful chiefly by mothers. He has done a great thing greatly, he has done a beautiful thing beautifully. He him­self is one of the finest examples of the influence of a g:reat and noble mother. Bom in modest conditions, cradled in thrift and nurtured by honest labor and ambition, he walks before the world today with giant stride deserving and receiving the ad­miration of men. He was bom in no golden clime with no golden stars 
above. No silver spoon did homage to his baby lips. Thrift and ambi­tion were the lessons he learned at his mother's knee. Patient and unre­mitting labor were the doctrines she taught him by her own fine example. She and she alone was the fairy god­mother, who cheered and supported him with the magic wealth of her 
love and encouragement. In his early years she put into his hands beauti­ful banners that the world with all its disillusionment has never been able to wrest from his grasp. For more than thirty years I have known him as a student, athlete, coach, pro­fessor, eloquent orator, leader of men, master of magic speech. The best years of his life have been given to promoting the spirit of brother­hood and fraternity among men. And when at last his destiny seemed al­most to have run its course, when he seemed to have accomplished the finest purposes to which he had dedi­cated his youth, there passed upon him what seems almost an inspira­tion from heaven, a desire that the great aggregation of men whom he had bound together in brotherhood and fraternal love, should themselves unite in an act of aggregate love for 
the motherhood of men. Honor to this dreamer of beautiful dreams, to this doer of majestic deeds, honor to the man who has borne so high, so spotless and so inspiring the flag that a wonderful mother's virtue placed in his youthful hands. No man who needs a monument ought ever to have one, I suppose. No man who really needs a monument to per­petuate his name can ever be immor­talized by any artistry of the plastic or the pictorial arts. No magic of picture or statue or bronze tablet can bring immortality to one who has not won the shining heights and fields of everlasting gratitude by the great thoughts of his Soul or the mighty works of his hand. Frank Hering needs no monument during life. He is already enshrined in the enduring admiration of his fellow men. It has, however, been wisely ordained that for the benefit of fu­ture generations that may not look upon his face, the noble features that so fitly express his Soul, shall be set forth for the knowledge and admira­tion of future generations. 
As a Notre Dame man I am proud of this distinguished son of Alma Mater. As a friend of ancient years I oflFer him affectionate greetings and congratulations. He has already re­ceived the assurance of the great multitude of his fraternity brethren who have honored him with highest position and acclaimed his leadership, his eloquence and his wisdom. It re­mains only for me to express the earnest belief that he has been in­spired to do highest honor to the vir­tues, the sacrifices, the inspirational power of the mothers of the world, he shall receive from them the living of today and the mothers of the fu­ture who shall revere his name such a tribute of gratitude and affection as ever the great sons of noble mothers have known. 





The New Engineering Hall Under Construction 
The architect's elevation of, the John F. Gushing Hall of Engineering, construction of which began this Tuesday, is shown below. The hall was designed by Francis Kervick, professor of architecture at Notre Dame, and will be built of brick and Indiana limestone. 
This addition to the University campus will be located east of the new Law building, and in style will conform to that of the Law school which is modem Gothic. The rear portion of the building is to be two stories in height and will house va­rious laboratories and machine shops. The third section, a court, will be only one story and will include more laboratories and an assembly room seating five hundred and fifty. 
A high tension laboratory will be one of the newest and most advan­tageous features of this building. Ac­cording to specifications it will be about forty feet square and forty feet high. On the exterior of the building there will be carved pannel­ings depicting eminent Catholic sci­entists. Ampere, Volta, Ohm, and Roentgen are a few of the men who will be represented in these sculp­tures. 
John F. Gushing was graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1906 with a degree in Civil Engi-
Env. THOJIAS A. STEINER, C.S.C. 
Dean of Engineering 

neering. He is now president of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Com­pany, Chicago. His gift of 5300,000 is the first building benefaction to the University from one of her alumni. 
In 1897 the College of Engineering at Notre Dame was established. In the thirty-four years since it was or­ganized it has grown, in enrollment, from seventy-nine students to four hundred and thirty-nine in 1930. 
The erection of this new Engineer­ing building at the University of Notre Dame makes possible the ex­tension of the expansion policy adopted by University officials six 
years ago. At that time three new dormitories were built—^Lyqns, How-aid, and Monissey halls, designed by Kervick and Fagan, professors of architecture at Notre Dame. Eariy in 1927 the Dining hall was started and completed in time to be used when school opened the following fall. It is said to be the largest building of its kind in America. Cram and Ferguson of Boston, with Kervick and Fagan of Notre Dame, associate architects, designed the Dining hall. 
In 1929 plans were made for the erection of a Law school at a cost of $400,000. In the Spring of 1930 foundations were laid for the Notre Dame stadium. Both of these build­ings were completed last summer. Last fall the plans for the erection of the Edward N. Hurley Commerce school' were announced and at the present time the foundations of this building are being laid. About two months ago the erection of two new dormitories, Dillon and Alumni halls, was announced. These buildings will be located west of the new Engineer­ing building, and will be built at an approximate cost of $850,000. The super-structure of these residence halls is at present well under way. Like the other buildings they will be constructed of brick and Indiana limestone. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Annual Laymen's Retreat On Campus, August 6-9, 1931 
Alumni Urged to Increase Participation by Local Club Groiq>s; Largest Retreat in America; Rev. William Burke, C. S. C, '13, to be Retreat Master. 
The ALUMNUS is particularly pleased to announce to all alumni the forthcoming Lay Retreat to be held at Notre Dame August 6, 7, S and 9 under the direction of the Mission Priests of the Congregation. This re­treat, the largest of its kind in this country, attracts annually some twelve hundred Catholic men from all parts of the country. There has been in the past a rather encouraging sprink­ling of alumni among these men, but it seems to the ALUMNUS that Notre Dame alumni, to whom the significance of this particular Retreat ought to be most emphatic, have not occupied their proper place in the van of the retreatants. 
The suggested program for the Clubs, introduced this year at the An­nual Council, contains the promotion of the Notre Dame Retreat as one of its clauses. Certainly the Clubs in the immediate area are in a position to aid. The result would reflect credit to them not only in a spiritual way, but in a civic sense, as the Retreat has enlisted the suport of leading citizens in all the important cities of the Middle West. 
Rev. William Burke, C.S.C, '13, will act as Retreat Master this year. The Retreat is under the supervision of Rev. Thomas Kearney, C.S.C. who took over the work when Rev. Joseph 
J. Boyle, C.S.C, 'OS, went to St. Thomas two years ago as prefect of Religion. 
The following account presented to 
prospective  Retreatants  is  to  the  
point:  
WHAT?  

A retreat is a withdrawal from 
•worldly distraction to think of God and the immortal soul. This partic­
ular Retreat means the withdrawal to Notre Dame for three days of such reflection, in the restful, prayerful, seclusion of this spot dedicated to re­ligion. Business is left behind, family affairs are forgotten, w^hile each man devotes himself exclusively to the business of salvation. The Retreat is likewise a mental rest which re­freshes the tired body at the same time that it stimulates the soul. Thus, is the whole man benefited. 
The great and enduring fruits de­rived from such brief intervals of spiritual calm and soul - upbuilding should awaken in the laity a desire to promote, by every means at their disposal, so worthy a cause. 
The democracy of the Lay Retreat surprises one. There we find men from all conditions of life. Men who retire from the clash, chaos and con­fusion of the work-a-day world, and in the solitude of that "beauteous spot" Notre Dame, sit under the di­rection of experienced directors, to do a bit of soul - bookkeeping; to strike a spiritual trial balance; and to return to the world and its oc­cupations, strengthened, enlightened, cheered and consoled in body and soul. 
WHY? 
Modern existence is a mad rush, competition is keen, business demands exacting. What is the result? The result is, when we come to figure it out, we spend about nine-tenths of our time — which was given us to save our souls—and to work for God —in earning our bread and butter. Now, we can spend our time this way and perhaps save our souls, but un­less we have to, we are fools to try it. Young or middle-aged, we are rapidly drawing near that time when the Master will come to demand an account of our stewardship. And the books to be balanced are the books of the soul. We shall be asked not mere­ly to produce our talents, but to pro­duce the increase we have won by trading with them. Of course the big question will be, have we saved our soul. That is the end and ob­ject of our existence here on earth, a duty placed upon us by the Living God—a duty from which no one can be exempted. All created things were given to help us attain that object. If we do nothing towards the sa\Tng of our soul, we can expect nothing in return. But after that there will be the question of how much merit we have won seri-ing God as He gave us the opportunity and grace to do it. The object of the Lay Retreat is, therefore, two-fold; first of all to make sure the salvation of the im­mortal soul for which Christ died; and secondly to build up a body of strong militant Catholic men who will be proud of their faith and their country, and who will glory in work-, ing to spread the kingdom of Christ upon earth. 
WHERE? 
Notre Dame is an ideal place for a Retreat. The very spirit of the place itself, so far from the noises and distractions of the world, con­tributes mightily to effect that "dose of calm" which a French writer says is so indispensable an element of the Retreat. A happy combination is ob­tained between public and private de­votion, between the hours of silence and those allotted to recreation. The Retreat, conducted as it is in summer time, furnishes city folks with an opportunity to spend a few days in the country, which contribute alike to bodily health and vigor. There are 
(Continued on Page 372) 

Jtmc, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Commencement Address, 1931 
(Continued from Pase 357) 

your work. Never adopt the prin­ciple that you are giving more than you are paid for. If you should adopt that principle, those over you will adopt it, and you will remain at the bottom rung of the ladder; whilst those who have given their services generously will be generously treated by that fair lady "Opportunity," which beckons, remember, not to the small-minded and to the unwilling, but only to those whose minds are enlarged by worthy ambition, and whose deeds have proved them to be willing and deserving. 
To sum up in a few words, the best advice I can give to any young man who desires to succeed is to work hard and to make himself 7tscful. By working hard, I mean, as I have previously explained, working hard intelligently. By making yourself useful, I mean that every young man in industry should learn all there is to know about his particular work and master as much as he can, and as much as time will permit, of the work of those around him, so that he will be useful to his superiors in the many ways that arise in large industries. A man's worth in business is meas­ured by his usefulness, and a useful young man generally attracts the attention of his superiors, and vriU be held in mind when opportunities for advancement occur. 
These simple rules of conduct, if I may call them that, are not difficult to follow, and all young men who are anxious to serve their business in a worthy manner are observing them today. These rules are also responsi­ble in large measure for the success 
,of those who have been successful in modern business. You will often hear this statement denied. It is not denied, however, by the intelligent, but only by those who do nothing, or never accomplish anything,. and who are left far behind in the competition. They will say that chance, and oppor­tunity born of chance, is solely re­sponsible for the success of certain great captains of industry. Never believe it. They are where they are because they were ready to be where they are, and they were ready to be where they ore because of intelligent hard work. It is true that the oppor­tunity came to them, but if you are equally ready, opportunity must, in the very nature of things, come to you. 
Finally, bear in mind that modem business, in spite of its gigantic ma­chinery, still retains much that is hu­man. On its human side it can have no use for the grumbler, the fault­finder, the destructive critic, the 
PRESIDENT TALKS TO MONTEREY, MEXICO 
Left to right, Dr. Jose Caparo; Rev. Thomas Stciner, C.S.C.; Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C.; Sergiits P. Grace, and R. M. Pease. 
\s this photosraph was talicn the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C.. president of the Uni­versity, was rarS on a telephone conversation with a former Notre Dame student. Gustavo Trevino E E '08, M.S. "00. now ceneral manaser of the Mexican Telephone Co.. Monterey. Mexico. Other members of the partj- talked over the wires to Mexico, the call having >»«? Iiut throush by &rSus P. Grace, aiistant vice-president of the Bell Laboratories. Inc. who. with Mr.J-ease. wLrCTests of Mr. Trevino previous to comins to South Bend. Mr. Grace addressed more than 
1.000 persons in Washington Hall on Tuesday eveninu. May 10 on late developments of telephone enrineers. and was assisted in his lectnre and demonstration by R. M. Pease. Father O Donnell was host at dinner, preceding the lecture, in the Lay Faculty dining room. 
cheerless mocker. Moreover, in mod­em business neither the sycophant nor the tyrant can gain lasting suc­cess, or, to express it more bluntly and rather crudely, no man can gain success of a substantial and perma­nent character by licking the boots of those above him, or by kicking the . heads of those below him. In other words, modem business needs the en­livening atmosphere of praise where praise is due, of constructive sug­gestion and of encouraging cheerful­ness, and that atmosphere, members of the graduating class, you may carry in abundance from the class rooms and playing fields of this be­loved institution. There are none more fitted to do this than you who have been so highly privileged in the 
spheres of study and of play. 
I salute you then, you who are to receive your crown today and to leave Notre Dame to begin your lives amid other surroundings, and I greet you as brethren in the great fraternity which stands in reverence whenever the name of our University is men­tioned. May the light of Notre Dame ever guide you along your several roads. 
And to you. Very Reverend Father President, I offer my renewed pledge of loyalty—the pledge of love for all that you are, and all that you repre­sent. It is through the unending sac­rifice and devotion of men such as you, that many of us can feel proud and happy today; proud in the knowl­edge of our tradition, and happy in the conviction that that tradition will never die. 
And when. Very Reverend Father President, I say "May Notre Dame flourish!" I know that this familiar wish comes not only from my own heart, but also from the hearts of thousands of your sons, bound to­gether in reverence and love, in grati­tude and admiration; I know, too, that.others will repeat it after me, and that it will be repeated as long as the devotion of your Holy Order endures . . . May that be until the end of time! 
Calls Board Meeting 
President Frank Hayes has 
issued a call for the first meet­
ing of the new Board of Direc­
tors for Saturday, June 27, at 
Notre Dame. The Board will 
take up at this meeting the 
recommendations made by the 
Annual Meeting for the prog­
ress of the jissociation. The 
Committee to revise the Consti­
tution will be appointed. 

372 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS June, 1931 


SECRETARY'S ANNUAL REPORT 
By JAJIES E. AEMSTEOXG, '25 
Abimni Secretary 
The Alumni Office has been too 
busy this year to prepare the charts 
and graphs of achievement or lack of 
it that modem business is so fond of. 
In addition, much of the work of 
the Office is impossible of expression 
in comparative terms. 
Nevertheless the year has had its concrete activities. K the following pointing with pride seems sinful, re­member last Friday's contribution to Commencement, "the quality of mercy is not strained." 
Living Endowment was added to the duties of the Office for the year. Developed, it is a job alone. The Office appreciates the rather encour­aging response that was given effiorts that were necessarily curtailed. The Office estimates that the introduction of the Living Endowment Plan took a substantial quarter of the time usual­ly allotted to the other features. 
This year the Office installed an ad­dressograph machine and the address­ing of all mailing of the ALUMNUS, bills for dues, and so on, has been done in the Office. This was formerly handled by the Ave Maria Press with increasingly difficult results as their demands grew. Returned mail has been cut down to one-fourth of its former volume by the change, with, we believe, an improvement general­ly in accuracy and neatness. 
The ALUMNUS enjoyed an un­usual year with the appearance of two special editions, the Stadium Dedication and the Eockne Memorial numbers, both double the customary thirty-two pages. The work on the magazine therefore approximated that required for twelve issues of the book. 
Seven new Local Clubs were or­ganized—Arizona, Binghamton, N. Y., Grand Rapids, Mich., Eastern Penn­sylvania, Peoria, HI., Tiffin, Ohio, and Wheeling, Va. This new group was supplementd by new heights in achievement of Clubs already in ex­istence. The Office is very definite in saying that everywhere among the Clubs there is a more serious tone of Club life, a more active effort and desire to participate in the bigger projects of Notre Dame and Notre Dame men. The Second Council of Local Alumni Clubs, held yesterday, while it was disappointing in the number of Clubs represented, was most satisfying in the spirit and the work done by those Clubs whose rep­resentatives were there and the pro­gram proposed and adopted by the Council should aid in the furtherance of Club activities throughout the 
coming year. 
President Frank E. Bering visited 
the Notre Dame Clubs of Los Angeles 
and San Francisco on a western trip 
and has been most helpful in the St. 
Joseph Valley Club. The Secretary 
visited the Notre Dame Club of 
Louisville and, on several occasions, 
the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
This is a good time to express the appreciation of the Association for the outstanding achievement of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago in in­viting and acting as hosts to the Na­tional Catholic Alumni Federation, the alumni representatives of fifty-two Catholic men's colleges in this country, of which your Secretary happens to be Vice-President and Mid-West regional director. The Con­vention achieved much that was hoped for and the showing of the Notre Dame alumni in Chicago overshad­owed the work of the central, national alumni organizations of Marquette, Loyola, De Paul or St. Viator's. This is not said to disparage those newer groups but to indicate that with all our faults, in spots we are reaching very substantial proportions. 
The work of the St. Joseph Valley Club in connection with the dedica­tion of the Stadium and in connec­tion with the tragic death of Knute Rockne also deserves special mention. On both occasions the Club was ap­pointed the University's official recep­tion committee by Father Charles O'Donnell, and on both occasions rendered distinguished service in this capacity. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was by far the largest and best in the history of the Association. The num­ber of Clubs reporting on meetings in the May ALUMNUS exceeded all previous records. The observation of the suggested Conmiiuion Sunday on the preceding day for Knnte Rockne was also most general. The Alumni Office is pleased to announce that in all probability, the Universal Notre Dame Night of 1932 will inaugurate an annual national radio hook-up that will be readily receivable by every Club in this country. 
The Alumni Office co-operated with the Prefect of Religion, Kev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, in a Religious Sur­vey of Alumni, a project that was most successful and which promises to do for the religious side of Notre Dame alumiii what Father O'Hara's great work in this field has done for the spiritual life on the campus. 
As announced by Father O'Donnell at the Alumni Banquet, the President and Secretary of the Association were honored w^th membership in the Rockne Memorial Association. 
Your Secretary was honored by the National Catholic Alumni Federation in its Chicago Convention by his ap­pointment as general chairman. The American Alumni Coxmcil, the non­sectarian organization of alumni sec­retaries, magazine editors and fund directors in which Notre Dame has long been a member, honored the Notre Dame representative with the directorship of its Atlanta convention and re-elected him to a similar post for next year. 
These were probably the high spots of the year. But the principal work of an alumni office is detail, those small, inconspicuous things that con­tribute little to a report. 
All in all, despite the fact that business is not prosperity, the year was interesting and encouraging. 
Annual Laymen's Retreat 
(Continued from Page 370) 
tours of the campus which take in the many points of interest which have made Notre Dame uniquely famous among the Universities of America. In a word, no effort is spared to make the time profitable. It must not be forgotten, however, that a Retreat is primarily devoted to the well-being of the soul. Who will say in these days of multiple and varied assault upon all the fun­damentals of Christian life that this is not time well employed? 
HOW? 
To cover the expense of eight meals, room service and other fea­tures provided by the University, each Retreatant is expected to con­tribute to the collection which will be taken up Saturday evening, the mod­est minimum of ten dollars. 
The University of Notre Dame in­vites all to come and enjoy a rest of body and peace of soul in an atmos­phere of prayer and religion in one of the most beautiful spots of Amer­ica. 

For the greater security of the im­mortal soul for which Christ died, for the upbuilding and fortifying of a militant Lay Apostolate, for the glory of God and Holy Church, we ask you to attend the 1931 Aimual Retreat which opens Thursday eve­ning, August 6th, at 8 o'clock (Cen­tral Standard Time) and closes Sun­day morning, August 9th. 
For reservation of rooms or any other information desired, write at once to Rev. Thomas Kearney, C.S.C. 

June, 19S1 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Q>.lllttllllllltllllDIIIDIIIIIIIIttMtllDIIMIIItll 


ATHLETICS; 
Football Ticket Rules Outlined by The Athletic Association 
The ALUMNUS Rushes In Where Angels Fear To Tread; Usual Courtesy of Preference Extended To Alumni With Dues Paid By August 1 and Applications In By September 15. 
Through the co-operation of the Athletic Association, those alumni whose dues are paid for 1931-32, by August 1, will receive a preference in the distribution of football tickets, if their applications are duly filed be­fore September 15. 
In that little paragraph is the de­tail and all the dynamite of a labor of love all too often lost. 
Alumni are not expected to pay dues to secure good football tickets. 
But, as a recognition of the inter­est and support of those alumni who recognize in the Alumni Association a factor of importance in the general development of Notre Dame, the Ath­letic Association has decreed that alumni complying with the above regulations shall be segregated in a section apart from and better than the general public, cash-on-the-board and eager as this latter and larger group is. 
1932 Football Schedule 
(OlBciolIy released by Jesse C. Harper) 

October 8— 
Haskell Institute at Notre Dame. 

October 15— 
Drake University at Notre Dame. 
October 22— 
Carnegie Tech. at Notre Dame. 
October 29— 
Univ. of Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh. 

November 5— 
University of Kansas at Lawrence. 

November 12— 
Northwestern Univ. at Notre Dame. 
November 19— 
Navy (place to be decided). 
No%'embcr 26— Army at New York City. December 10— University of Southern California at Los Angeles. 
J. ARTHUR HALEY, '26 

Business Manager of Athletics 
Further extenuation would only in­volve a repetition that must tire us all. For the new alumni, let this summarj' suffice: 
Notre Dame appreciates the alum­ni; the Athletic Association, whose personnel is largely alumni, has no purpose to further in discrminiating against alumni; the interests of the University sometimes require steps that inconvenience some alumni, but these are few, and certainly co-opera­tion ought not to be outside the pale of expectancy; ticket sales represent a tremendous volume in a short pe­riod, involving a necessity for defi­nite rules and the possibility of oc­casional error; read the rules care­fully, abide by all of them, and re­member finally that football is a game, Notre Dame a University. 
Alumni applications will be mailed during July, in time for their return by August 1, the opening date of sale for individual games. 
The 1932 Football Schedule was re­leased recently by Jesse C. Harper, Director of Athletics. 
Pennsylvania and Indiana are re­placed by the Haskell Indians and the University of Kansas; otherwise the opponents remain the same as for the 1931 season. The Indians are a colorful team, numbering always some outstanding native American athletes. Kansas usually, is one of the representative members of the Big Six, a group that Notre Dame has had little contact with since the abandoning of the Nebraska games. The absence of Indiana leaves Notre Dame without a Hoosier opponent for '32, but the ALUMNUS assumes that the older civil wars' for the State title have been forgotten in the com­mon cause of bringing national lau­rels among the sycamores. 
The 1932- schedule assures the Notre Dame Stadium of four games, with the Navy a possible fifth. 
In spite of the moving of the Northwestern game to Chicago this year, the 1931 Notre Dame home crowds will see Drake, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and Southern Califor­nia, a schedule any stadium would welcome. 

1931 Football Schedule 

October 3— 
Indiana University at Bloominston. 

October 10— 
Northwestern Univ. at Soldier Field. 

October 17— 
Drake University at Notre Dame. 

October 24— 
Univ. of Pittsbursfa at Notre Dame. 

October 31— 
Camesie Tech. at Fittsbursh. 

Novanber 7— 
Univ. of Pennsylvania at Notre Dame. 

November 14— 
Navy at Baltimore. 

November 21— 
Southern California at Notre Dame. 

November 28— Army at New York City. 
374 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS June, 19S1 

SPORTS SUMMARY 
(From the Scliolastic) 
FOOTBALI^-
Vfhen the last team ever coached by 
ICnute Rockne trotted oif the gridiron 
of the Los Angeles Coliseum last De­
cember, after crushing Southern Cali­
fornia in the most amazing upset in 
modem football history, they com 
pleted the greatest season that a 
Notre Dame team has ever had and 
set a record that no other team has 
ever equalled. Notre Dame won ten 
consecutive games in the fall of 1930 
from ten of the best football teams 
from every section of the country; 
the best in the south, the best in the 
east, the champions of the Western 
Conference, the pride of the Pacific 
coast — all fell before the Fighting 
Irish of Notre Dame. 
The praises of this wonder team have been sung far and wide. Their deeds cannot be summ.arized in a few paragraphs. Theirs is a story of courage, of sacrifice, of crystallized perfection of football strategy and execution. They were Rockne's great­est masterpiece, and in them the character of Knute Rockne lived. No praise can be higher. 
BASKETBALI^ 
Notre Dame's basketball team of 1930-31 met with fair success. Con­sidering the handicaps under which the team started the year, the record of twelve victories and eight defeats was highly creditable. As Coach Keogan faced the prospects of a hard twenty-game schedule, he was with­out the services of such stars as Don­ovan, Smith, McCarthy, Kizer and Busch of his last year's quintet. In the shoes of these men were five com­paratively green basketeers as the season opened. 
Totals for the season showed that Notre Dame outscored her opponents, 485 to 476. Ray DeCook and Bill Newbold, center and forward respec­tively, took individual scoring honors with 131 and 93 markers for the year. 
At the annual testimonial dinner held in the spring, Joe Gavin, mid­get marvel, was chosen honorary cap­tain for the season. Norb Crowe, a forward, was picked to lead the team for the 1931-32 season. All of the first two teams with the exception of Gavin will return for next year, and one of the greatest of Notre Dame teams should result. 
TRACK— 
Tlie 1931 track season, recently concluded with the C. I. C. meet, at Milwaukee, found Coach John P. Nicholson's Blue and Gold team in performances that at times were very satisfactory. The showing of the men outdoors was a source of keen disappointment at times, al­though the erratic performances can­not be wholly accredited to Coach Nicholson and his men, since ob­stacles that arose proved impossible to overcome. Throughout the whole season the squad was hampered by 
JESSE C. HAKPER 
Director of Athletics 
injuries and sickness to stars, and then to climax these physical diffi­culties, tivo prominent members of the team were dismissed because of a disagreement. 
The indoor season was weathered much more favorably than the out­door season. The Blue and Gold squad recorded dual meet victories over Butler and Iowa State, and re­tained their C. I. C. indoor title for the fifth consecutive time. Coach Harry Gill's "Fighting Illini" were the only ones to defeat the local tracksters in a dual meet, and they recorded their ivin only by a slim margin in an exceptionally close meet. To top off this success, Alex Wilson journeyed to New York for the fa­mous Millrose games and returned with a sensational victory in the fa­mous "Millrose 600" siely tucked away. 
The meet with Navy concluded the dual competition for the year, and the following weekends found Notre Dame defending her Indiana State and C. I. C. titles. In the former. Coach Nicholson's men nosed out In­diana for the championship by a scant four points. At Milwaukee, in the C. I. C. meet, Notre Dame was again returned the champion, but was forced to win three out of the last four events on the program to re­tain her title. 
Graduation will take an almost ir­
reparable toll in the Blue and Gold 
ranks this year when Captain John-
nit O'Brien, Ralph Johnson, Ken 
Fishleigh, Fred Reiman, "Marty" 
Brill, Kirby Shaeffer, Joe Quigley, 
Carl Cronin, Roy Bailie, and Al Tuohy 
will have hung up their spikes for 
the last time in collegiate competi­
tion. Coach Nicholson should be 
stimulated in his efforts next year 
though by the return of Captain-elect 
Bill McCormick, Charley Kelly, Fred 
MacBeth Ed Gough, Lourie Vejar, 
Chauncey Branfort, Gene Howery, 
Bob Darling, Ale.\ Wilson, Brant 
Little, Jack Scanlon, and Regis Kuhn, 
all of whom have been consistent 
point winners in the season just re­
cently concluded. 
BASEBALI^­
Losing but one game in the nine that were played on Cartier field, Coach George Keogan's ball tossers came down the stretch to the finish of a very interesting season. Notre Dame's stick artists have demon­strated that baseball should be re­tained at the University by winning eight out of twelve contests played before enthusiastic crowds. 
Two of the contests were in the form of practice tilts, but from these workouts Notre Dame brushed up on the weaker points in commendable style. 
GOLF— 

Notre Dame golfers won all of the eight matches on their 1931 schedule to complete their second successive undefeated season. Captain Fran Beaupre and his brilliant contingent of par-shatterers swept through every match and the Indiana State tourna­ment without ever once being in diffi­culty. The eight matches against Valparaiso, Michigan State, Univer­sity of Detroit, Loyola, Iowa, and Pittsburgh were all won by lop-sided scores, and the state tournament was a walk-away for the Notre Dame boys. 
With this great record behind them, Notre Dame has now turned expec­tantly towards the national intercol­legiate tournament at Olympia fields, in Chicago. Last year they placed fourth as a team, and Larry MoUer was runner-up to Dunlap of Prince­ton in the individual tourney, besides copping medallist honors and being elected to the presidency of the In­tercollegiate Golf Association. 
June, 1931 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Ei« llltlllltltllllttlDIIMItllllMIIIIM Q 


THE LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
iiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiKiDiiiiiiitiiia 
Q., ttititiia))iiiiitiitiii B 
WARNING! 

Alumni are advised that finan­cial aid to unknown persons claim­ing to be Notre Dame men is being abused. 
In this particular period, the. tendency is to believe any hard luck story. Notre Dame men have always been too ready, if anything, to let their love for Notre Dame bridge suspicious gaps in strangers stories. 
Reports have come from Clubs, distant from each other, that mem­bers have been imposed upon by men who afterward were rather definitely established as impostors but not before they had gone their way. 
Houston, Texas, has been be­sieged by several men representing themselves to be prominent Notre Dame athletes of other years. Parish priests are particular prey for these men. They present a story of temporary financial em­barrassment, usually in such con­dition that publicity, if they were who they claimed to be, would be most regrettable for Notre Dame. 
The Calumet District reports an alleged member of the Class of '15, (this will be hard on Jim Sanf ord's blood pressure though no one of the name given appears in the Class list), took several Calumet alumni on a stranded motor tour­ist story. 
A wire from San Francisco re­ported that a suspicious person posing as Bert Metzger, last year's AU-American guard, was circulat­ing out there. 
The only advice the ALUMNUS can give, is that, story or no story, unless the party can be personally identified, any money or other aid provided must be classed as pure charity. It is too bad that un­doubtedly deserving cases are go­ing to suffer perhaps from these frauds. But the ALUMNUS feels confident that a genuine case can prove itself. 
M. 0. BURNS 

M. O. BURNS. LL.B., 1SS6. !s another out­standing alumnus whose active participatkjn in alumni afTairs has meant a sacrifice of other interests, but this sacrifice has been given to the lasting advantase of Notre Dame interests in and about Hamilton. Ohio. As president of the younff Hamilton Qub, he has brought to it the invaluable experience gained with the Fra­ternal Order of Eagles, of which he is a Past Grand Worthy President, the highest honor in the order, which two other N. D. men, Frank 
E. Hering and tl;c present incumbent, Robert E. Proctor, have shared. 
ED. BOEHMER 

ED BOEHMER is making up. as Secretary of the Notre Dame Oub of Kentucky, the time he missed in the completion of his course at N. D. with the Class of '27. Ed's very likeable per­sonality is to be counted upon at the Qub func­tions and he fits into the Colonels'. programs tailor-made. The Editor's personal contact with the Louisville Qub is responsible for the first­hand assertion that the officers of the Louisville Club know what constituents want and know how to give it to them. Ed's headquarters are at 140S Hepburn .A.ve., Louisville. 
^^^^^HRT^ 
^^^^^^RU.3 . . 
^^^^•^41.­
\'''--•^^^^^H 
^^^^^^f^T'-' ~.'
I^^^^^H 


^^^•^^^^^ ^1 
^^^•K^RSxSHfi^,;-jvJ 
''t^'^-^^^^^^H 
M4^ 


^^K^^ 
JOHN HUETHEE 

JOHN J. HXJETHER. '22. is one of the younger men whose interest as president of the Notre Dame Gub of Albany and the Capital District during the past year has left to Mr. Forbing, the present executive, a legacy of en­thusiasm. Jack took his E. E. in 1922 and hied himself to Schenectady, the mecca of electrical engineers, where he now resides at 1122 Sumner Ave. Mr. Forbing, as Secretary of the Qub last year, paid Jack several high compliments as president and that, as any Secretary knows, is praise indeed. Jack's service on the S. A. C. at Notre Dame prob^ly prepared him well for Qub vicissitudes. 
BEN RESTING 

BEN KESTING. '25, comes before the edito­rial chair with a big handicap over the rest of the field in those magic numerals. However, Ben's work this year as Secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Toledo, working with the ener­getic John Hurley of the same memorable Qaas. as President, makes it imnecessary to depend on that to put him across. Tcdedo alumni can be counted upon whenever they are needed. That spells successful organization. Ben. in addition, and with the aid of Mrs. Kesting, is rearinff some mighty promising Notre Dame boys. Ben's address is 173 E. Broadway. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Junej 1931 
GEORGE W . BURKITT, JR. 

GEORGE W. BURiaTT. JR.. Gulf Bldfr.. Houston, Texas, is one of the addresses lonjr familiar to the Alumni Office. As President of the Notre Dame Club of Houston, Texas, Mr. Burkitt has been most active, with the compar­atively few Notre Dame men in his larRc terri­tory. As a result, i^otrc Dame and Notre Dame men in theHouston area enjoy an enviable repu­tation that would have been most difficult with­out the time and interest devoted to its develop-men by Mr. Burkitt and his confreres. Mr. Burkitt was uraduated from Notre Dame with an A. B. in 1902. 
DR. DUNDON 

DR. J. R. DUNDON was the very efficient president of the Notre Dame Oub of Milwaukee until Bill Redden took the reins Universal Notre Dame Nicht, Doc has been one of Notre Dame's mainstays in the former Blue Ribbon city, and it is no small tribute to his enthusiasm and efforts that the Notre Dame Cub of ^lilwaukee did not suffer the same extraction of pep that other of Milwaukee's products did. The new administration is capitalizing on the prestige ot the CJub with new and big;?er projects that make the Club one of the leading organizations in Local Qub Circles, albeit the membership is not extensive. DDC'S address is 1228 Brady St. His Oass, 1914. 
FRANK BLOEMER 

The pep that makes Bloemer's chile one of Louisville's favorite dishes has been applied by FRANK BLOEMER . president this year of the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky, to the Club pro­gram. Theweek-end that the Editor enjoyed in Louisville, including Universal Night, showed that Frank has the Club with him strong in carrjing out a most commendable series of events. Frank was graduated in 1922, kept in touch after that through his younger brother, Bemie, and has kept pretty much the old Louis­ville open house for visiting N. D. men at 126 
E. Jefferson. Brother Cyprian is one of Frank's regular visitors who has kept him in close touch with the campus. 
^S^It^^SSS^^HIHIJ^B 
y-T'-ffeS>i-iJM 
• -'-..•. u.v'^^^^^^ 
-.' ^^^^^ 
t K" '^K^ 

RI'IH^ 
' ^^^^ 
J ,:l]H 
"• '*! t-'-^^fe.
.0^. ;^H 
^MP^'''^'.^^^^^H 
'•\ J^^^^^^ ^va I^^^^^^KV ^^^^^^^^^^^1 ^.^^^^^^L. ^^^^BR^-' II^^^^^^H 






^H^s^S^B
-'-'^^^^EI^^^L 



K'^^H
^^L.' '>:i>^;7A?^H 
-'.•• v41?vl^s^ 
--•-^'^^^3^S^ fjt^ • * ' H^^x^^^^l 
2^^Si£3^^K£SL^^

ikm-\i&: 
KiRwiN WILLIAMS 

KIRWIN WILLIAMS, '28. returned to San Antonio from Notre Dome and was promptlyimpressed into the Notre Dame Club that Joe Menger had started there. He has been one of the well-known pillars of the organization ever since. As Secretary of the organization this past year he hasfunctioned in thestyle to which Club Secretaries ought to become accustomed. He is associated with his father in the haberdasherybusiness, Gunter Hotel Bldg., and keeps Notre Dame radiating from this central location. 
J . W . FORBING 

JOHN W. FORBING, '00. president of the Notre Dame Club of the Capital District, those cities about and including Albany, N. Y., pre­sents the encouraging example of an older alum­nus who considers Notre Dame affairs, particu­larly as exemplified in the Local Oubs, worthy of his time and attention. Participation of men such as President Forbing is most encouraging and helpful to younger alumni. He served as Secretary of the organization last year, was veryinstrumental in its early success, andwas elected to the presidency Universal Night. His address is 15 CataJpa Drive, Albany. 
JOE ABLER 

JOSEPH ADLER , '24,has been prominent in the frequent news dispatches from the Notre Dame alumni in andabout Joliet, HI. Always it has been in an active and constructive capacity. Joe has given to the Club considerable ability and influence that have helped greatly in work­ing out the extensive Gub program in the com­munity. For its age and size, the Joliet Club has a record of achievement to which it can point with a great deal of justifiable pride. Joe's presidency of the organization this year is the culmination of an exemplary participation in the Club's affairs that brought the deserved recognition. 
June, 1931 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 37T 

Fitzsimmons* Report Features Second Local Club Council 
Proposed Constitutions and Suggested Program Features Meet With Approval of Delegates; Club Organization to Be Strengthened by New Plan. 
The Second Annual Council of 

Local Alumni Clubs met on Saturday, 
June 6, at 1:30 P. M. in the Confer­
ence Room of the Main Building. 
President Frank E. Bering presided. 
The report of the Committee of Club Presidents, appointed by Presi­dent John W. Eggeman in 1930, was presented by Frank T. Fitzsim­mons, '23, former President of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, chair­man. 
Preceding the report a roll call in­dicated the presence of the following representatives: B. J. Kaiser, Wes­tern Pennsylvania; AVilliam J. Red­den, Milwaukee; Frank T. Fitzsim­mons and James H. Brennan, Chica­go; John A. Purcell and Dr. Gerald Hayes, New Jersey; William Bossing-ham, Joliet; Gerald Morsches, Fort Wayne; Victor Yawman, Rochester, 
N. Y.; M. Hari-y Miller, Cleveland; Walter Duncan, LaSalle, 111.; Edward Fallon, New York City; Joseph P. McNamara, Indianapolis; Paul Doo­ley, Detroit; Frank E. Bering and James E. Armstrong, St. Joe Valley. 
James E. Armstrong, Alumni Sec­retary, outlined the history and pur­pose of the Council of Local Alumni Clubs and the proceedings of the first meeting at Commencement, 1930. 
The report follows of Fitzsimmons' committee — consisting of Rev. J. Bugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, Notre Dame; Dudley Shively, St. Joseph Valley; Henry Dockweiler, Los Angeles; Jo­seph Nulty, New Jersey; -Alfred Slag­gert, Detroit; Bugh A. O'Donnell, New York City; George W. Burkitt, Jr., Houston, and Patrick E. Burke, Louisiana-Mississippi. 
June G, 1931. Mr. Frank E. Bering, President Notre Dame Alumni Association, Notre Dame, Indiana. Dear Mr. Bering: 
This committee, appointed at the First Annual Meeting of the Local Alumni Club Council on May 31st, 1930, has studied into the problems for which it was created, namely, to suggest activities which might go to make up any club's yearly schedule of events, activities not necessarily year­ly or periodically, and a suggested foi-m of Constitution and By-Laws. In this connection, the committee has been gi-eatly aided by the generous suggestions and help received from our genial and efficient Alumni Secre­tary, James E. -Armstrong. In fact, it was he who furnished most of the fundamentals and ideas for this com­mittee to start on. Knowing that any plans which the committee may sug­gest will be used by Secretary Ann-strong in carrying out his splendid work, the committee has followed his suggestions carefully. 
This committee, being made up of members who were at the time of their appointment. Presidents of their own local clubs, was never able to hold a meeting together because of the fact that they reside at farthex-­most points in the United States. Accordingly all committee work was carried on through correspondence. 
It is presumed that the basic idea in the formation of this committee was to assist in the creation of new local clubs and to encourage and assist the creation of such local clubs by the preparation of a skeleton con­stitution and by-laws and a list of suggestions for events and ideas for the new club to select from in its start for success. 
The committee hereby submits three forms of constitutions for considera­tion, having in mind thi-ee different sized groups. The constitutions are hereto attached and made a part of this report. In this connection, the committee has not striven to perfect a constitution in any certain com­munity, but has offered these di-afts or constitutions, two of which ai-e substantially the same as now being used by local clubs. 
Regarding suggestions for Club programs of events, the committee makes the following suggestions which, of course, must necessarily be general since no two communities in the United States ai-e alike, and since no two clubs are alike in size or locality. The suggestions are set forth as briefly as possible. They do not cover all of the many events and attractions which might go to help the success of any club or clubs but represent what the committee feels to be important suggestions. They are: 
1.
 Adopt standard constitution or articles of association to be supplied by Alumni Ofiice. A set of these articles will be furnished each Club, based on the requirements of the smallest organization, and subject to the revision and enlargement to meet special needs. 

2.
 Annual election of officers. 

3.
 Annual observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. 

4.
 Weekly, or Semi-monthly, or Monthly Luncheons. 

5.
 Publication of some kind, or at least a club bulletin to be sent out perhaps each month. 

6.
 Maintain contact with Notre Dame undergraduates by holiday sea­son events or some annual outing in the summer. 

7.
 Annual Communion Sunday. Sermon by a member of the Congre­


gation of the Holy Cross, if possible. 
8.
 Active support of the Living Endowment Plan; the formation of a committee to confer with every alum­nus and with other persons in the community who are friendly towards Notre Dame and its best interests. 

9.
 Creation of a student loan fund from which worthy young men from the locality of the Club could be made loans from time to time to enable them to continue their work at the University. It could be either part-expense or full-expense, to be subject to .the fund limits and de­cision of Club officials. 

10.
 Deal with present and pros­pective Notre Dame undergraduates, to maintain contacts with Notre Dame and with whate%'er preparatoiy schools are in the Club territory. 

11.
 Stimulate attendance at the Notre Dame Lay Retreat from the Club or to organize a Club retreat in the Club's own community. 

12.
 Engage in those activities which involve Club relations with other agencies in the community, such as the press, the civic groups of similar nature, controversies concern­ing Notre Dame arising from the various errors to which lack of infor­mation exposes the public, and so on. In other words, promote corect and constructive Notre Dame publicitj', in the community. 

13.
 Secure the best opportunities in the community for Notre Dame men. 

14.
 Check with the community li­brarv for books by Notre Dame authors, Notre Dame publications, etc., and to supply a medium through which occasional general or specific reading lists can be circulated from the University. . ^, i, 

15.
 Stimulate attendance of Club members at the annual Commence­ment exercises and Class Reunions at Notre Dame. 

16.
 Make an effort to have some member of the Univei-sity faculty or administration appear before the Club at least once during the year. 

17.
 Attempt, if at all feasible, to sponsor the appearance of some Uni­versity student group such as the Glee Club, the Band, the Orchestra, the Debating Team, the Breen Medal­list, the University Theatre Produc­tion, or some organization willing and able to present to the Club and the public the other great work that is being done at Notre Dame, as ably as the athletic teams are holding up their end. , 

18.
 Try to have some member ot 


the national Alumni Association ad­ministration address the Club. The 
378 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNXJS June, 1931 
Directors and the officers are more informed than any other members by virtue of their positions and can do much to stimulate intelligently the Club activities. 
19.
 Inter-University alumni con­tact and communication; such as joint social enterprise with the local alumni of other representative schools in the community. 

20.
 The award of Notre Dame Club trophies to prep students or to preparatory schools in a given area, for excellence in specified activities, such as debating, oratory, athletics, etc. 

21.
 Have a representative present at the Annual Club Council. 


The Constitutions are available for the several Clubs and will be made a part of the official report, but ^vill be omitted here. 
FoIIo\Wng the presentation of the report Mr. Hering suggested that the meeting be open.to discussion. 
Mr. Redden, of the Milwaukee Club, inquired if there was any objection to calling a Club the "Notre Dame Uni­versity Club." This point was brought up in connection with the Club Con­stitution drawn up by Frank Fitz­simmons and his Committee. Accord­ing to this Constitution the name of the Club should be "The Notre Dame Club of ," 
Mr. Fitzsimmons pointed out that the Constitution for Local Clubs, as dra^vn up by the Committee, was only a suggested one and that the name of the Club could rest upon the ^viEhes of those in the community. 
Mr. Hering asked those present if there was any objection to the words "Notre Dame University" appearing in the Club title. No objection. 
Mr. Hering then suggested that the 21 points be read and each discussed. He also suggested that, rather than burden a club with all 21 suggested activities, five points be taken from the 21 and if these worked out over the period of a year, more points could be added the following year. It was Mr. Hering's belief that 21 points for club activities imposed on the Club officers, in the present organization of the Local Clubs, would dismay them to such an extent that none of the suggested 21 points would be worked out. 
Sir. Fitzsimmons suggested that Mr. Armstrong send all 21 points to the Local Clubs and let the clubs select the ones they felt covered their needs. 
Mr. Fitzsimmons then re-read the 21 points on suggested activities for Local Clubs. 
Following this re-reading of the 21 points, Mr. Armstrong pointed out that none of the Clubs could possibly • carry out all the suggestions of the Committee at the present time, but all of them could follow out a few of these suggestions. Mr. Armstrong further stated that these 21 points would be of great benefit to the Clubs, especially newly organized and small­er clubs. He pointed out that partici­pation in definite duties by as many club members as possible had proved 

• to be very satisfactory. 
.4.LBANY, N. Y. 
The Capital District Club is pro­moting a big golf tournament and outing for the middle of June, at which time the '31 graduates and new members of "the Club will have an opportunity to meet the Club mem­bers. 
BINGHAMTON The Notre Dame Club of Bingham­ton was definitely organized Universal Notre Dame Night. The following officers were elected: Honorary President, Eev. James Connerton, Notre Dame. President, Allen H. Mahar, John­son City, '28. Vice-President, Edward J. O'Brien, Johnson City, ex. '24. Secretary, John O'Loughlin, Bing­hamton, '23. Treasurer, Donald M. Kennedy, Binghamton, ex. '18. A letter from the President gives us the following dope: "We had a very lively meeting at-the Elks' Club in Binghamton, Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, and we all had a very good time. We were not as fortunate as we would like to have been in having all the district present, however, there was a very representa­tive crowd and things look as though we will have a very lively Club. "We expect to hold a meeting some­time in June and get the entire crowd together, including those at school at present." Any alumnus living in the vicinity of Binghamton who is not already associated with the new Binghamton Club may get in touch with any of the Club officers or write the Alumni Office. We wish the new Club success and pledge our cooperation. 
CLEVELAND The Annual meeting was postponed, due to the death of Jlr. Sockne. It was held June 1, in connection with a ' dinner at the University Club. "The following officers were elected: John 
P. Butler, President; Thomas F. Byrne, Vice-President; George G. Kerver, Secretary, and Mathew I. Trudelle, Treasurer. A new office of Chairman of the Membership Commit­tee was created, and Charles E. Eohr, Jr., was elected to fill that post. 
An innovation passed upon at this meeting was a plan to charge the members of the Club an annual dues which is to be $5.00 for those who have been out of school more than five years, and ?3.00 for those who have been out of school five years or less. No dues will be charged the members who have just graduated until after January 1, 1932. Plans were also made to assist Notre Dame men graduating in June to find busi­ness connections. A committee is to be appointed to assist in this work and the Club Secretary will act as a clearing house where the Notre Dame men may be informed of possible openings. 

The Club held a Summer Dance on June 17 at the University Club. Thomas F. Byrne was General Chair­man of the Dance Committee. Other members of the various dance com­mittees are: Eugene A. Milliff, John Bdjon, "Fritz" Slackford, Clayton LeEoux, John Raleigh, Myron Craw­ford, Norman McLeod, Matt Trudelle, Joe Butler, John Kiener, and "Chuck" Eohr. 
Harry (Red) Miller waS the prin­cipal speaker of the evening at the Annual Meeting. 
George G. Kerver, 
Secretary. 
NEW JERSEY 

The following new officers were re­cently elected, according to Jake Pur­cell, who braved the wilds of South Bend to attend Commencement: Bill Carter, '27, President; Arthur J. Lea Mond, '15-'17, El. '31, Vice-President; Ed. Broderick, '27, Treasurer; and Joseph Nulty, Secretary. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY 

The Rock River Valley Notre Dame club put in its bid for staging the first post-commencement alumni activity on Sunday, June 14, when twenty-five of its members gathered for a stag picnic. Attorney Sherwood Dixon, of Dixon, was host at his cabin on the banks of Rock River, south of Oregon. Rockford, Dixon, Amboy and Oregon were represented at the party. 
Baseball, horse-shoe pitching, turtle-shooting (as well as other shooting frequently indulged in by N. D. stu­dents), cards and swimming were among the diversions, which inci­dentally resulted in some cases of sunburn which will help to recall the picnic for a few days. 
Yours in haste, 
J. Henry Fannan. 
TOLEDO 

New officers in Toledo, too. Here they are: President, J. P. Hurley, '25; Vice-President, Dr. W. G. Hartnett, '22; Secretary, R. L. Tillman, '15; Treasurer, A. H. Suder, '26; Trustees, 1 year, E. S. Toth, '23; 2 years. Rev. 
E. E. GaUagher, '22; 3 years, A. J. Kranz, '17; 4 years, J. A. Schmitt, ex. '06. 
A golf tournament for the Club is planned for some time in June. 
June, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
lllllltlliilliitlliltlliii llDllllllllllllllllllDlillllillllilliilililtlllttlltllltlllti 
B" T 
*-J-/ \J IVX X^ 
h

El.. •tllKlllllllllllllltllllllllllllll llltllllllllllllllllliilllllllllllllllltlllllll 
Mr. and Mrs. Ryan are at home at Deaths Manages 1 1017% N. McKinley St., Oklahoma •*— City, Okla. 
JOSEPH A. HIGGINS, ex. '15, died May 18 in Hartford, Connecticut, fol­lowing a ten days' illness with pneu­monia, according to a newspaper clipping received from a Hartford paper. 
Joe served with the Intelligence Service during the World War. Afterward he studied law at Colum­bia and later read law in Hartford law offices. 
It is with great regret that we an­nounce the death of ARTHUR COYNE HATTEN, '26, who was shot to death May 16, in Webb City, Mo. The first report was that he was killed in an auto accident; the news­papers the next day carried the story that he was murdered by a Detroit gangster. A letter from Mrs. Hatten, Coyne's mother, to Father O'Hara, gives us the first authentic account of what happened: 
"Coyne was one of the best boys in the world. He received Holy Com­munion on Mother's Day and was at Mass on Ascension Thursday, three days before the tragedy. Saturday evening was quite warm, and he was driving around with his wife and baby later than usual, and then he took them down to^vn and said he would go and get the Sunday papers. As he left the drug store to return to his car this gangster saw him coming and thought him a detective in dis­guise, so he shot him. We are crushed, but with God's help and gfrace ^ye will try to carry on." 
The ALU5INUS extends sympathy to the followng: To FRANK PAT­RICK BURKE, '03, on the death of his son, Frank P., Jr., a Junior at Notre Dame, who was killed in an automobile accident; to CHARLES MOONEY, Jr., '26, on the death of his father. Congressman Charles Mooney of Cleveland; to CLEM CROWE, '26, ED CROWE, '26, and FRANK CROWE, '29, whose father was killed in an automobile accident recently; and to JOHN ROBINSON, '28, and JOSEPH ROBINSON, '31, whose father died April 17. 
We have just received word of the death of JOHN EGGEMAN, JR., ex. '2i, who died quite suddenly from a heart attack. Commencement week. Jack was the son of Judge John Egge­man, '00, past president of the Alumni Association, and present class secre­tary of the Class of 1900. 
Miss Madeline McGarry, daughter of Mr. and- Mrs. MICHAEL J. Mc-GARRY, '94, Los Angeles, Calif, was married to NORMAN NICHOLAS FELTES, '24, of Chicago, on Satur­day, the thirteenth of June, at twelve o'clock, noon, at St. Vincent's Church, Los Angeles, Calif. 
A reception, immediately following 

the ceremony, was held at the Town 
House, Los Angeles. 
Mr. and Mrs. Feltes will be at home 

in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Howells an­

nounce the marriage of their daugh­
ter, Margaret Eleanor to FRANCIS 
WILLIAM HOWL.AND, '25, on Sat­
urday, the sixth of June, Streator, 
111. 
After July 1 Mr. and Mrs. How-

land will be at home at 1270 N. Main, 
Rockford, 111. 
Mr. and Mrs. James R. Daly an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­ter, Florence, to EUGENE RICHARD McBRIDE, '16, on Wednesday, the tenth of June, at St. Joseph's Cathe­dral, Hartford, Conn. 
Mr. and Mrs. William H. CTady have announced the marriage of their daughter, Goldie May to LEO PATRICK ST. JOHN, '26, on June 17, at Sacred Heart Church, Tampa, Florida. 
Mr. and Mrs. St. John will make 

their home in Tampa. 
Announcement has been made of the marriage of Miss Arline Lucile Newman, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Harry S. Newman, to HAROLD S. HUTCHINSON, er. '27,' on May 20th in Washington, D. C. 
Miss Cecelia Margaret Schilling daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John Schilling was married ot ORVILLE LOUIS HOUGH, '27, on Tuesday, May 30, in the Cathedral of the Im­caculate Conception, Denver, Colo. 
Miss Helen Josephine Smith, daugh­ter of Mr. and Mrs. John Henry Smith was married to ROBERT JAMES BRENNAN, '29, on June 29th, in Saint Charles Church, Wo­bum, Mass. 
Immediately following the cere­mony a reception was held at Wo­bum. 
Mr. and Mrs. Cornelius O'Brien have announced the marriage of their daughter, Alice Margaret to THEO­DORE JOSEPH RYAN, '30, on June 1, in Brainerd, Minn. 
Mr. and Mrs. John Leddy of Elm­hurst, Long Island, have announced the marriage of their daughters, Mary Rita, to LESTER CHARLES GRADY, '27, of Brooklyn, N. Y.; and Loretta Irene to ALBERT LORING DOYLE, '27, of Mishawaka, on Wed­nesday the seventeenth of June at ten o'clock in Saint Bartholomew's Church, Elmhurst, Long Island, N. Y. 
Mrs. Grady is a graduate of Mount 
St. Vincent's college in New York, 
and an accomplished musician, and 
Mrs. Doyle attended Mount St. Vin­
cent's college and was graduated at 
New York university in June. 
Mr. Doyle, son of Mr. and Mrs. 
William J. Doyle of Mishawaka, was 
graduated at Notre Dame University 
in 1927. He was president of the 
Notre Dame Players', club and a 
member of the Lawyers' club, and is 
still active in campus dramatics at 
Notre Dame, where he is an in­
structor. He was deputy prosecut­
ing attorney in Mishawaka from 1927 
to 1929, and is now city judge of 
Mishawaka. 
Mr. Grady was also graduated at Notre Dame University in 1927, and was editor of The Juggler during his junior and senior years, presi­dent of The Scribblers and a member of the Notre D^me Players. He is now editor of Film Fun magazine. 
Miss Harriet Barber, of South Bend became the bride of WILLIAM 
C. DAVIS, JR., '27, of Chicago, on June 23, in St. Monica's Church, Mishawaka. 
Miss Bemice Kuhn, Detroit, Mich­igan, and Miss Margaret Maurice, South Bend, were the bridesmaids and Mr. William Brydges and Mr. JOSEPH BIGALI, '26, were the groom's attendants. 
Mrs. Davis is a graduate of St. Mary's College. 

T Births T 
« « 
If your letters and requests to the Alumni Office have been ignored, blame it on Richard James Arm­strong who has been claiming all the attention of the Alumni Secretary. since June 1. Jack Armstrong has been head man in the Armstrong mansion since May, 1929, bnt brother Dick insists on playing the lead . . . esi>ecially around 2 a. m. He is at home to admiring friends and rela­tives on Corby St., South' Bend. 
380 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS June, 1931 
The ALUMNUS offers apologies to its readers (if any) for slipping up last month by neglecting to mention the birth of JIM SANFORD'S, '15, latest son. The youngest Sanford arrived on April 4. 
Mr. and IVIrs. M WILLETT BRUCE, '12, tell us that "the depres­sion at our house is over." SEles Willett, Jr., seven pounds of pros­perity, was born June 6. 
The following for the Class of '21: ."Tell Schubmehl, et al, that JIM CULLIGAN has announcements out for Mary Jean who came to play ^\^th her little brother, Jim, on June 4th." 
Edward Da%'id Ahlering arrived on June 8, just in time to oifer his best wishes and congratulations to his parents, Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD L. AHLERING, '25, on their second wedding anniversary. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES L SMTH, Jr., '24, of Grosse Pointe, Mich., an­nounce the birth of a son Saturday, Jlay 23. 
Born to Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES DE GROOTE, '28, of 813 34th St., South Bend, a son, Sept. 30, 1930. (Ed's Note: The ALUMNUS has just received this statistic Sorry to be so late in recording this news.) 
BucHey, Class Secretary, writes this summer from the wilds of Jlisha­waka the following: 
"Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR GLEA­SON, '28, announce the birth of a daughter, Virginia Ann, on May 11, 1931. They live at 245 Melbourne Ave., Aki-on, Ohio. This gives the Gleasons a well balanced family as Bobby arrived about a year ago this time. And, by the way, Pauline and myself were the god-parents for the new daughter. What a .. . of a fu­ture that kid has. 
-« 
I 
I Engagements 
« « 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward F. Roessler, South Bend, Ind., have announced the engagement of their daughter, Ro­sina, to Mr. RAYMOND M. SNY­DER, '27, son of Mr. and Mrs. Ray­mond F. Snyder, Colorado Springs, Colo. 
The wedding will take place July 27, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Mr. Snyder is a member of the English Department of the University of Notre Dame. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edmund O'Shea of Forest Hills, L. I., have announced the engagement of their daughter, Rita Marie O'Shea, to Daniel Francis Cunningham, Jr., son of Mr. and Mrs. 
Daniel F. Cunningham of Far Rock­
away. 
Miss O'Shea attended the Convent 
of the Sacred Heart at Noroton, 
Conn., and is now completing her 
senior year at the College of the 

•Sacred Heart, Manhattanville. Mr. Cunningham was graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1927 and has since been associated with his father in business. 
Mr. and Jlrs. Byron V. Kanaley of 682 Ardsley Road, Winnetka, an­nounce the engagement of their daughter, Adele, to Mr. Frederick C. Miller, son of Mr. and Mrs. C. A. JEIIer, of 2909 Newberry Boulevard, Milwaukee. Miss Kanaley is the daughter of Byron V. Kanaley, Notre Dame '04, and a Trustee of the Uni­versity. Miss Kanaley is a graduate of Roycemore Academy, Evanston, and Sacred Heart Academy of Lake Forest, and of Ogontz, '31, where she is valedictorian of her class. Mr. Miller is a graduate of Country Day School, Milwaukee, and Notre Dame University, '29, where he was an honor student, and won national fame on the varsity football team on which he played throughout his collegiate career, and of which he was captain in his senior year. 
I I 
Personals 
EVERYONE WAS HERE 
Dix, 5-Year or what-have-you Re­
unions may come and go. The Notre 
Dame Reunion will always supple­
ment them with that general frater­
nal spirit that moves through all the 
years alike. 
The Reunion Classes did come back 
in very representative and laudable 
numbers, particularly 1906, 1914, and 
1926, but the following list illustrates 
so well what the Editor has in mind 
when planning Commencement that 
the emphasis just has to be placed 
here instead. EVERY CLASS FROM 
1890 UNTIL THE PRESENT COM­
MENCEMENT WAS REPRESENT­
ED. 
That is the Notre Dame spirit. 
That is Notre Dame's wish—^that all 
Notre Dame men should come to the 
campus as often as opportunity per­
mits. Class spirit is of course strong 
and wholesome, but it is probably true 
at Notre Dame as at few other places 
that, regardless of his Class, a man 
enjoys a visit on the campus. 
If you attended Commencement and 
your name isn't in the following lists 
it is because you didn't register. 
Before 1880 1877 
Col. Wm. J. Hoynes—^Notre Dame. Ind. 
1878 
Henry New-mark—Oeveland, Ohio. 
1880-1885 
Prof. Robert M. Anderson, '83, Circle-ville, Ohio, Secretary. 
Francis X. Wall—Louisville, Ky. 
Dr. J. B. Bertelins—South Bend, Ind. 
1881 
N. J. Comerford—Joliet. HI. 
1885 
Rev. B. J. m. C.S.C—Notre Dame. Ind. 
Joseph C. Smith—Chicago. HI. 
1887 
Hon. Warren A. Cartier, 
Ludington, Mich. 
The following interesting, though regrettable, news explains the unusual absence of the Class Secretary from Commencement: 
"This is the first day at my office 
(June 6) since getting back from N. 
D. May 19 (Lay Trustees meeting). A^\-fully sorry I could not keep my appointment with that room, but I immediately went to bed on my re­turn, called the doctor and that's that. Had a job to fight off pneumonia, so they all said . . ." 
1888 
Dr. Henry B. Luhn—Spokane, Wash. 
1890-1893 
Louis P. Chnte, 7 University Ave., Minneapolis, Slinn., Secretary. 
John L. Herman—South Bend, Ind. 
1892 
D. M. Shively—South Bend, Ind. 
1893 
James G. Henley—Jackson, Mich. 
1894 Hugh A. O'Donnell, The New York Times, New York City. 
M. D. Kirby—Lansing, Mich. 
1895 Eustace CuIIinan, Sr, 860 Phelan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 
Martin J. Schnui^Goshen, Ind. 
1896 
William P. Bums, 327 Willard Ave, Michigan City, Ind. 

Kev. Thomas Crumley, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. 
Hon. ALBERT J. GALEN, asso­ciate justice of the Supreme Court of Montana, formerly attorney general of that state, recently a candidate for the Senate against the famous Thom­as Walsh, visited friends on the campus May 13. Judge Galen was returning from a trip to Washington. 
1897 

Rev. John MacNamara, 16 Elm St., Garden City, L. I., N. Y. 
Rev. John A. MacNamara—Garden City, N. Y. 
1898 
F. Henry Wurzer, 1632 Buhl Bldg., Detroit, Slichigan. 
Peter E. Kearney—Chicago, 111. Frank E. Bering, South Bend, Ind. 
1899 
Rev. Thos. A. Stciner, C.S.C., Notre Dame. Ind. Wm. N. Bergan, South Bend, Ind. 
1900 
John W. Eggeman, 1201 First Nat'l. Bank Bldg, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Angus D. McDonald—^New York City. James F. Murphy, Bock Island, III. 

June, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
The ALUMNUS is indebted to C. 

C. FITZGERALD for the above pic­ture of Notre Dame in the early 90s. The original was damaged in a Cu-ba.n .tornado, bat Mr. Fitzgerald has 
LEFT TO 1—Leo (?) (Kneeling) 
(Standing) 3—Ned Jewett (Kneeling) 4—Frank 'Buck' Keough (Standing) 0—Ed. Maurus (Standing) 6—Elmer Scherrer (Standing) 
So far my duties as Secretary of the Class of 1900 have been delight­ful. Reason: two fine letters received from members of that class whom I have not seen since graduation. 
Our old crowd will be pleased to know that Mr. NOBBERT SAVAY is engaged in the practice of law at Los Angeles, with offices in the Black Building and is the author of a val­uable legal work entitled "Trial Strategy For Practicing Attorneys," which is now in its second edition. 
Mr. JOHN W. FORBING of 15 Ca­talpa Drive, Albany, New York, will be remembered for his determination to learn Spanish without the aid of a text book and mastering that lan­guage by keeping in close contact with a few of the students from Mexico. John was in a reminiscent mood when he wrote, for he states that his keen­est and deepest recollections are those . of Carroll Hall. He also says: "I think that when Fr. Burns taught me how to weigh a liter of oxygen, and when Dr. Powers showed me an amoeba reaching out for a diatom, my vision of the Campus began to fade. I am still at times w^ondering how a simple unicellular microorganism without nervous organization or brain can go about selecting its food, obtain­ing nutrition from a siliceous covered plant like a diatom, and living through the hard winters and dry 
had a print made, so strengthened that the accompanying illustration was made possible. The ALUMNUS will appreciate having anyone who can iiU in the missing names do so. 
 RIGHT 
7— (Sitting) 
8—Bro. (?) (Standing) 
9—Stock-dale Mitchell (Standing) 
10—^William Correll (Sitting) 
11—C. C. Fitzgerald (Standing) 
12—John Flannery (Sitting) 
summers of northern Indiana. Of 
course, I remember rooting and blow­
ing the end of my clarinet out for 
you. I do not hold it against Notre 
Dame for not equipping me on grad­
uation with a Ford runabout, knick­
ers, golf socks, dress suit and a meal 
ticket. N. D. gave me more equip­
ment than I shall ever be able to use." 
John must be thoroughly imbued with the Notre Dame spirit for he forwarded a Living Endowment check to be applied to the credit of the Class of 1900, which check is enclosed to you herewith. 
There is still in being at least twenty of the members of the Class of 1900 and I should be delighted to hear from them. Surely abidextrous TOM MEDLEY should have some­thing to say. He was quite strong with his "saying" while a student. 
1901 Joseph J. Sullivan, No. 1300, 139 N. Clark St., Chicago, Illinois 
Geo A. McGcc—Jlinot, North Dakota. 
W. A. Mclnerny—South Bend. Ind. 
1902 

Rev. L. J. Heiscr. C.S.C.—Notre Dame, Ind. Rev. T. F. McKeon. C.S.C.. Notre Dame. Ind. 
G. C. Mitchell—Chicago. HI. 
1903 Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. BIdg, 31ilwaukee, Wisconsin. 
Bev. J. L. Carrieo, G.S.C.—Notre Dame, Ind. 
H. V. Cnimiey—Cincinnati, Ohio. Harold H. Davitt—Jacksonville, Fla. John W. Dubhs—Mendota. HI. Rev. D. K. O'Malley, C.S.C.—Notre Dame, Ind. John H. Neeson—Philadelphia. Pa. 
1904 Robert Proctor, Monger BIdg., EaUiart, Ind. Francis X. Ackerman—^Notre Dame, Ind. James M. Casey—Soath Bend, Ind. Thos. J. Jones—Indianapolis, Ind. Byron V. Kanaley—Chicago, HI. Francis A. McKeever—Chicago, HI. 
T. A. Toner—Grand Forks, No. Dakota. 
G. A. Farabangh—South Bend, Ind. 
The following very interesting newspaper clipping concerning Rev. Maurice Griffin, '04, LL.D. '22, ap­peared recently in the Catholic Uni­verse: 
The Bev. Maurice F. Griffin, LL.D., pastor of St. Philomena's parish. East Cleveland, is sailing from New York Friday on the Adriatic as one of two representatives of the Ameri­can Hospital association to attend the international congress of that asso­ciation in Vienna, June 8-18. Dele­gates from 46 countries will be pres­ent. 
Dr. Griffin is serving his fourth term as a trustee of the American Hospital Association and is its oldest trustee in point of service. 
He is known throughout the United States as an authority on hospital management. Earlier in the year he was one of a number of delegates who made an observation tour of hospitals in Central America. In the 1930 An­nual Supplement to the Catholic Uni­verse Bulletin, dedicated to Catholic hospitalization and welfare work. Dr. Griffin w^as represented with a paper, "Paying Hospital Bills," which creat­ed wide interest. • 
He will leave the steamer at Cobh and spend five days in Ireland. Thence he will go to Vienna. 
1905 Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. La Salle St., Chicago, Illinois. 
R. J. Bums—Pittsburgh. Pa. Daniel J. O'Connor—Chicago, 111. 
1906 

Thomas .4. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen BIdg„ Spokane, Wash. Rev. H. B. McCauley. C.S.C.—Notre Dame Jnd. John F. Gushing—Chicago. 111. Rev. Charles L. Doremus, C.S.C.—Notre Dame. 
J. A. Dubbs—Cleveland, Ohio. 
W. P. Feeley—Buffalo, New York. Harold P. Fisher—Chicago, HI. Albert A. Kotte—Cincinnati, Ohio. 
' Daniel L. Madden—Chicago, m. Frank A. McCarthy—Elgin, HI. lAwrence McNemey—Elgin, HI. Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell—Notre Dame. Ind. Hon. Wm. P. O'Neill—Mishawaka, Ind. John F. Shea—Holyoke, Mass. 
1907 

T. Paul McGannon, 36 W. 44th St., 
New York City. Rev. W. P. Corcoran. C.S.C.—^Notre Dame, Ind. Jas. V. Cunningham—Chicago, HI. 
382 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS /itne, 1931 
Ser. Wm. H. Molony. C.S.C.—^NotreDame. Ind. Ambrose O'Connell—New York City. 
1908 Frank X. CuU, Bulkley BIdg, Cleveland, Ohio. Masimilltan J. St. Gcorse—Chicago, HI. 
1909 
E. P. Cleary, P. 0. Box 356, Momence, Illinois. Kev. P. J. Hssserty. C.S.C.—South Bend, Ind. James Hincs—South Bend. Ind. 
Paul R. Martin—Chicago, DL Francis C. Walkei^-New York City. 
1910 Kev. SI. L. Moriarty, 527 Beall Ave., Wooster, Ohio, Secretary 
Paul J. Donovan—Chicago, HI. Rev. P. E. Hcbert, C.S.C.—Notre Dame. Ind. Kev. W. Lavin. C.S.C.—Notre Dame. Ind. 
M. Harry Miller—Cleveland, Ohio. Kev. M. L. Moriarty—Wooster, Ohio. 
A newspaper clipping is responsible for the following: 
LUCIUS B. ANDRUS, of Indi­anapolis, president of the Northern Indiana Power Co., and officer in other InsuU utilities, has been elected president of the Great Lakes division of the National Electric Light associa­tion for the 1931-32 term, it was an­nounced here todya. 
Andrus succeeds Eugene Holcomb, of the Consumers' Power Co., Jackson, Mich., whose term will expire on June 30. 
The annual convention of the Great Lakes division will be held Oct. 1-3 at French Lick. 
1911 Fred L. Steers, 1666 First Nat'l. Bank BIdg., Chicago, Illinois. 
Pedro A. de I,andcro—South Bend, Ind. 
E. L. Fisel—Chicago, HI. Rev. J. P. Kchoe, C.S.C.—Notre Dame, Ind. Kev. Thos. A. Lahey, C.S.C.—Notre Dame, Ind. 
J. H, Lawton—South Bend, Ind. 
J. B. Murphy—Dayton, Ohio. Fred L. Steers—Chicago, 111. 
1912 Edmund H. Savord, Box 135, Sandusky, Ohio. 
John W. Costdlo—Chicago, HI. 
Walter Duncan—LaSalle, III. 
B. J. Kaisei^-Pittsburgh, Pa. 
1913 James R. Devitt, 921 Engineers BIdg., Cleveland, Ohio. 
Win. E. Cotter—New York City. 
G. Byron Hayes—Fort Waj-ne, Ind. Rev. J. A. Heiser, C.S.C.—Notre Dame, Ind. Rev. John C. Kelley, C.S.C.—Notre Dame, Ind. 
P. J. Meersman—Molinc, HI. John F. O'Connell—Chicago, HI. Bob Singler—South Bend, Ind. Rev. James Stack, CS.C.—Notre Dame, Ind. 
JAMES W. O'HARA, whose law offices are now at 805 First National Bank building, Chicago, has TOM MCGUIRE for a neighbor in the Cam­pus Towers Apts., 1033 Loyola Ave., Chicago. 
1914 
Frank H. Hayes, Union Bank of 
Chicago, Chicago, III. Walter li. Clements—South Bend, Ind. Chas. E. Dorais—^Detroit, Mich. 
S. T. Farrcll—Joliet, III. Simeon T. Flanagan—^Ncw York City. Frank Hayes—Chicago, HI. Frank M. Hogan—Ft. Wayne, Ind. Ira W. Hurley—Chicago, HI. Raymond T. Miller—Cleveland, Ohio. 
R. S. O'Neill—Chicago, HI. Wm. J. Kcddcn—^Milwaukee, Wis. Chas. L. Vaughan—Lafayette, Ind. 
I just received a letter from "IKE" FEYDE K who states that on account of ill health he will be unable to attend the reunion in June, but sends his best wishes to all the old bunch and will try to make the Southern California football game next fall. 
He also calls my attention to the fact that you carry HENRY FRAW­LEY as "unclaimed," and he states that Henry lives on a ranch in the Black Hills and his address is Spear­fish, N. D. 
1915 James E. Sanford, 1033 S. Linden Av e Highland Park, lU. 
Jos. H. Byrne, Jr.—Newark, N. J. Rev. P. H. Dolan, C.S.C—Notre Dame, Ind. Mark L. "Duncan—Chicago, HI. John J. McShane—^Indianapolis, Ind. Jos. S. Pliska—Chicago, 111. James E. Sanford, Chicago, III. Leo T. Welch—Indianapolis. Ind. 
1916 Timothy P. Galvin, 708 First Trust BIdg., Hammond, Ind. Secretary 
Thomas A. Hayes—Fort Wayne, Ind. 
F. J. Hiss—South Bend. Ind. Timothy P. Galvin—Hammond, Ind. 
1917 John U. RUey, 244 Washington St^ Boston, Massachusetts. 
Daniel C. Curtis—Chicago, HI. 
J. Paul Fogarty—Chicago, Dl. Vernon R. Helmen—South Bend, Ind. Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr.—Chicago. Dl. Fred L. Mahaffey^lndianapolis, Ind. Sherman May—Superior, Wis. Rev. M. A. llulcaire. C.S.C.—^Notre Dame, Ind. Austin A. McNichols—Chicago, III. 
H. E. Sojtt—Indianapolis, Ind. 
1918 John A. Lemmer, 1110 Eighth Ave, Escanaba, Michigan. 
Rev. F. J. Boland, C.S.C.—Notre Dame, Ind. . 
L. A. Glasscott—Michigan City, Ind. Bernard D. Hclfeman—^Washington, D. C Rev. G. L. Holderith, C.S.C.—Notre Dame, Ind. Francis J. Hurley—Chicago, Dl. Paul J. (Muffgs) Ryan—Johnston*n, Pa. 
TOM KING, director of athletics and head coach for six years at the University of Louisville, expects to leave Louisville in June for Washing­ton, D. C. Tom has been unnsnally successful at the Kentucky school and is moving to Washington, where he expects to devote all of his time to the practice of law. 
1919 
Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce St., 
Gary, Indiana. Paul Fenlon—^Notre Dame, Ind. Wm. H. Kelly—Indianapolis, Ind. Jos. C. McGinnis—Chicago, HI. Arthur C. Weinrich—Chicago, HI. 
1920 
Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black BIdg., 
Los Angeles, Calif« James H. Brennan—Chicago, HI. Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C, Notre Dame. 
E. J. Median—South Bend, Ind. Elw-yn M. Moore—South Bend, Ind. 
H. A. Richwine—South Bend. Ind. 
1921 Alden J. Cnsick, 1 Park Avenue, New York City, Secretary Wm. A. Allen—Chicago, III. 
D. J. Carr—Grccnsburg, Pa. Ed. J. Meagher—Chicago, HI. 
H. J. McLellan—South Bend, Ind. Jas. L. O'Toole—Pittsburgh, Pa. 
J. F. Sanford—Mukcgon, Mich. 
R. J. Schubmehl—South Bend, Ind. Al Slaggcrt-Detroit, Mich. Walter A. Sweeney—South Bend, Ind. 
FRANK E. COUGHLIN, former monogram man and captain of the football team, now a practicing attor­ney and former prosecuting attorney in South Bend, was elected president of the state organization of the B. P. 
O. E. at their convention in South Bend, June 3. Frank has been active in both local and state Elks in official capacities for some years. 
1922 Gerald Ashe, 1024 Monroe Av e Roch­ester, N. Y, Secretary. 
Heartley W. Anderson—South Bend, Ind. 
Gerald Ashe—Rochester, N. Y. 
Gerald C. Brubaker—Elkhart, Ind. Jerome F. DLxon—Chicago, HI. 
Fred B, Dressel—Columbus, Neb. 
W. T. Dwyer—London, Ohio. Jos. H. Farley—Chicago, III. Aaron Huguenard—South Bend, Ind. Leo A. Mahoney—South Bend, Ind. Clarence Manion—South Bend, Ind. Harry J. Mehro—Athens, Ga. Paul V. Paden—South Bend, Ind. Harry A. Provat—South Bend, Ind. Walter L. Shuts—South Bend, Ind. • Earl F. Walsh—Dcs Moines, Iowa. Chester Wynne—^Auburn, Ala. 
1923 
Paul Castner, Studebaker Corp., 
Sonth Bend, Ind. Rev. J. A. Brannigan, CS.C—South Bend. 
Jos. J. Casasanta—South Bend, Ind. 
Forrest Cotton—^Davenport. Iowa. 
R. C. Doran—Akron, Ohio. Frank T. Fitzsimmons—Chicago, HI. 
W. J. Furey—South Bend, Ind. Edward W. Gould—Chicago, HI. Edw. D. Kelly—Emmetsburg, Iowa. Roger J. Kiley—Chicago, HI. Henry J. lAuerman—Menominee, Mich. John M. Montague—Chicago, HL 
R. J. Nash, Jr.—Chicago. III. 
D. P. Nolan—South Bend. Ind. Rev. R. M. March, CS.C.—Notre Dame, Ind. John M. Rohrbach—Crown Point, Ind. 
W. E. Shea—Dayton. Ohio. 
R. R. Smith—Chicago, HI. 

June,, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
E. J. Paylon—South Bend. Ind. Wm. L. Voss—Harvey, HI. Georee J. Wack—South Bend, Ind. 
1924 
James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave^ 
New York City. 

Ceorffe F, Barry^ChJcafyo. IH. Kev. Henry J. Bolser, C.S.C.—^Notre Dame. 
B. N. DeGursc—Port Huron. Mich. 
J. Henry Fannan—Rockford. 111. Thos. H. Hodgson—Sleepy Eye, Alinn. Raymond Hoyer—South Bend. Ind. Ray J, Lang—Mishawaka. Ind. Wm. Mahcr—Chicaco, HI. James R. Atcehan—Erie, Pa. Robert P. Reagan—Philadelphia, Pa. Robt. B. Riordan—Notre Dame, Ind. Joseph C. Ryan—Notre Dame, Ind. Leo Van Tilbury—Mishawaka, Ind. 
1925 John W, Scallan, Pullman Co^ 79 W. Adams St^ Chicago, Secretary. 
Brother Agatho. C.S.C.—Notre Dame. Ind. James E. Armstrong—Notre Dame, Ind. Chas. L, Baumgartner—South Bend, Ind. Wm. J. Bossingham—Joliet, III. Clarence Bunco—Laporte, Ind. 
M. Clyde Brown—Hammond. Ind. Paul J. Dooley—Detroit. Mich. Clarence W. Harding—South Bend. Ind. Walter M. Houppert—Indianapolis, Ind. John P. Hurley, Jr.—Toledo, Ohio. 
B. G. Kesting—Toledo. Ohio. George Koch—South Bend. Ind. Edmund J. Luther—South Bend. Ind. 
D. P. Marbaugh—Indianapolis. Ind. Jas. F. McNichoIas—Chicai^o, III. 
E. F. O'TooIe—Chicago. HI. 
E. A. Polhaus—Detroit. Mich. Frank A. Reese—Raleigh, No. Carolina. Jack Scallan—Chicago, I!l. John F. Stoeckley—Notre Dame. Ind. Harry Stuhldreher—Haverford, Pa. Adam Walsh—^New Haven. Conn. 
J. B. Walters—Hammond. Ind. 
J. H. A. Whitman—Notre Dame. Ind. 
JOHN P. HURLEY announces the addition of a new line of wood prod­ucts, Beneke of Chicago, to his Toledo Parlor Furniture line. John takes the occasion of a trip into this territory to pay a few welcome visits to the campus. 
GEORGE CHAO sent the follow­ing message to REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C, '11, which was in­cluded in the Religious Bulletin of May 27: 
"When I returned from the German part of Switzerland after my Easter holidays, the first thing I learned at the Fribourg station from an Ameri-. can priest here was Rockne's death. It took away my breath. To us Notre Dame and Rockne is a harmonious identification. I could not da much for Rock, who we all love; but as a Notre Dame man I went to Holy Com­munion and said the Holy Rosary seven days to Mary (May is her month) for him. The loss is irrepar­able, but Rock died in Faith. Rockne once smiled much at me when a foot­ball fan insisted that I should buy a picture of Rock after Notre Dame's victory over Nebraska." 
1926 Dr. Gerald W, Hayes* 38 N. lath St. Newark, N. J^ Secretary. 
Earl J, Antoine—Amboy. 111. 
J. A. Bailey—Chicago, HI. William R. Barr—Chalmers, Ind. Arthur J. Bidwell—River Forest, HI. Jos. Bojewicz—Culver, Indiana. James Bowen—Indianapolis. Indiana. John C. Bulger—Chicago, HI. Thomas A. Burke—Brooklyn. New York. Herbert J. Burt—Chicago, Rl. 
A. F. ConI in—Chicago, HI. Rev. Bernard Coughlin—St. Paul, Hilinn. Clem F. Crowe—Latrobe. Pa. 
M. J. Curry—Mitchell, So. Dakota. Bill Dooley—Hammond. Ind. 
R. W. Durst—Wnukegan. III. Edward A. Fallon—Rockville Center, N. Y. Roman Feldpausch—Hastings. Mich. 
F. G. Ferguson—Lorain. Ohio. Paul J. Fleming—Youngstown. Ohio. 
J. N. Gclson. Jr.—Brooklyn, New York. John A. GallBshcr—Cleveland Heights, Ohio. 
B. A. Goopfrich—South Bend. Ind. 
V. L. Goulet—Syracuse, New York. 
J. A. Haley—South Bend, Ind. Geo, T. Hartnett—LaSallo. HI. Dr. Gerald Hayes—^Newark. New Jersey. Claude E. Johnson—Essex Junction. Vt. 
J. Paul Johnson—Kokomo, Ind. Harold P. Klein—Des Moines, Iowa. Harold L. Krauser—Portsmouth, Ohio. Lawrence F. Krieger—St. Joe, Michigan. In-ing A. Hurwich—Mishawaka, Ind. Fred E. Link—Detroit, Mich. 
E. W. Mahoney—Detroit, Mich. 
E. J. Mandeville—Chicago, HI. Jay R. Mascnich. Jr.—South Bend, Ind. Charles E. ATason—^Indianapolis. Ind. Gerald W. Morsches—Fort Wayne. Ind. Gerald V. McDermott^Chicago. HI. Gerald J. McGinley—Ognllala. Neb. George P. O'Day—Detroit. Mich. Vincent D. O'Malley-Chicago, HI. Daniel J. O'Neill—Newark. N. J. Dennis T. O'Neill—Cleveland, Ohio. James Pearson—Flint. Mich. John (Jake) Purcell—Orange. New Jersey. 
H. J. Robertson—South Bend. Ind. Rev. Keith L. Roche—Peoria. HI. Michael B. Reddington—Indianapolis, Ind. James A. Ronan—Chicago, HI. Arthur Suder—Toledo, Ohio. John J. Sweeney—Chicago, HI. Jos. F. Sexton—Indianapolis. Ind. Donald. C. Trombley—Mt. Clemens, Mich. John Tuohy—Oak Park. HI. Bernard Wingerter—East Orange. N. J. Victor G. Yawman—Rochester, New York. 
1927 
Ed DeClerq, Secretary 

8126 Drexel Blvd„ Chicago, lU. Arthur B. (Bud) Boerinffer—Detroit. Mich. Pnul Butler—South Bend. Ind. Wm. Corbett. Jr.—ChicaRO. HI. Hnrold J. Gosffrove—Indianapolis. Ind. 
L. E. Crowley—Roscvillc, Ohio. Jos. H. Dunn—Brnincrd. Minn. 
B. L. Epstien—Chicago. 111. 
•\Vm.
 S. Finucane—Chicago, HI. Edward J. Flynn—Chicago. III. Ed. T. Garrity—Chicago, 111. Richard L. Halpin—Chicago, HI. John J. Halpin—Chicago. III. Daniel J. Harvey—Chicago, HI. 

M.
 Alijert Henry—Hammond, Ind. Herbert E. Jones—South Bend. Ind. Philip Lopresti—Johnstown. Pa. Charles W. Martin—Pittsburgh, Pa. 


Francis E, Morale—Sontik Bend. Ind. Hay li. Hcaory—Chicaso, HI. Wm. H. HcCaDonsfa—Detroit, Mich. Edw. J. McLanghlin—Chicaso. HI. HariT O'Boyle—^Dea Moines, Iowa. Jack K. Ohnemus—^Mishawaka, Ind. Earle C. Rex—Seattle, Wash. Clarence J. Ruddy—Auroia. HI. Donald Sehl—^Indianapolis, Ind. Raymond M. Snyder—Sooth Bend, Ind, Alban W. Smith—Laporte. Ind. Luther M. Swygert—Hammond, Ind. 
W. H. Vahey—Youngstown. Ohio. James E. Vaughan—Lafayette. Ind. Frank Fendergast—Chicago, HI. 
PAUL BENITZ, son of Prof. WIL­LIAM L. BENITZ, a ^adnate stu­dent at Stanford University last year, has been awarded a two-year fellow­ship in mathematics at Colnmbia Uni­versity, New York City. Paxil will continue his studies under Prof. Ho-telling of Stanford, who takes up his duties as a member of the Columbia faculty in the Fall. He will receive a doctorate in mathematical statistics at the completion of his studies. 
1928 

Looia Buckley, Notre Dame, Ind^ 
Secretary. Andrew J. Boyle—^Notre Dame, Ind. Louis F. Buckley—^Mishawaka. Ind. George Coury—Chicago, HI. 
F. E. David, Jr.—^Alexandria, La. John 0. Fontana—Columbus, Ohio. John Frederick—Saginaw. Mich. 
J. W. Hayward—Notre Dame, Ind. Francis A. Hegarty—^Pittsburgh, Pa. Lester C. Hegde—Melrose Park, IH. Wm. B. Jones—^Denison, Iowa. Wm. P. Kearney—Chicago, HI. Wm. Konop—^Indianapolis, Ind. Laurence Motter—Canton. Ohio. Edward P. McGuire—Chicago, HI. Ed. McKeown—Chicago, HI. Robert M. O'Dowd—Marshall, Mich. Henry A. Persyn—Mt. Angel. Oregon. John F. Robinson—^Waterbury. Conn. Floyd Searer—South Bend, Ind. David H. Smith—Chicago, HI. 
C. A. Thoma—Cleveland. Ohio. 
P. G. Tobin—Elgin, HL 
The Class of '28 was represented at Commencement by twenty mem­bers. FRANK HEGARTY came aU the way from Pittsburgh where he is attending medical school to talk over the problems of the profession with PAUL TOBIN who came in from Chi­cago, where he is studying medicine. Frank has lost some of his excess weight which makes him more hand­some than ever. Two of the '28 law­yers were present for the Law re­union. You lawyers who could not be present should write to ED Mc-GUIRE and ED McTEARNON to know what you missed. I cannot go into details'here, but the reunion was such 'a huge success that they have decided to make it an annual affair. It seemed like old times to see JOHN FREDERICK and JOHN FONTANA together again. The South was rep­resented by FRANK DAVID who came all the way inm Alexandria, 
La., to be with some of the old gang. JOHN ROBINSON came from Water­bury, Conn. I taiow that you will all be sorry to hear that John's father died a short while ago. BILL KEAR­NEY, DAVE SMITH, and GEORGE COURY dropped in from Chicago for the occasion. Bill finished Loyola Law School this year and intends to practice in Chicago. BILL KONOP was present from Indianapolis where he is in the insurance game. I talked over old times with BOB CAPESIUS from Chicago. Bob hears from FRANK CONNORS who is located in Arcade, N. Y. The architects were represented bv CARL THOMA from Cleveland. HENRY PERSYN, who is here at Notre Dame working on his Doctor's degree, was present. We had the pleasure of seeing three of the '2S men receive degrees. ANDY BOYLE received his Ph.D. in chem­istry. Andy will be back as a mem­ber of the Notre Dame faculty next vear. He is spending the summer at Cornell. BOB WARD and BILL JONES received their LL.B. degrees. Bill will coach next year at St. Charles College in Helena. Andy and myself will be lost next year with­out Bob and Bill to talk over old times with. We had a great time talking over the '28 days with the fellows who were able to be back and we made plans for our five year re­union in '33. Start saving your pen­nies now fellows so we will be to­gether that year. All of the gang who were here this year promised to be back at that time. If you receive the chain letter that I have out this summer be sure to keep it on its way so we will have enough news to make this column real interesting next 
I had a letter from PAUL BRUST from 851 No. 29th St., Milwaukee. Paul asked for names of N. D. alum­ni in Europe as he intends to spend the summer there for a little travel and study. Paul says that the N. D. club in Milwaukee is real lively and they e.\pect a verj* successful vear with BILL REDDEN, '15, as presi­dent. He gave me the following in­formation concerning '28 men in Mil­waukee. "BOB BECK is married and has a baby. GENE GALDABINI and his roomy JERRY DECLERQ move into a better apartment every two months. JEAN LABOULE will soon be back from Madison to tell us of 1 ife at Wisconsin. HILMAR BOEHM is one of the vice-president of the Boehm Bindery. FRANK HOLDAMPF is the new secretary of the Milwaukee Club. BOB LUTZ, the attorney, seems the same old live i\-ire. ALLAN laKELY', a fellow ar­chitectural draftsman, is another newly married man. Outside Mil­waukee other '28 men who have writ­ten are the following architects, AR­NOLD THOMA and JACK SONN­HALTER who are in Cleveland. CHAS. PAHL recently opened an office in Tiffin, Ohio. RAY WOR­DEN is just back from an extensive trip of Europe with DON ICREIS, a '29er." 
DAN BR.A.DLEY writes that he and JOE SULLWAN, '29, will be at St. Vincent's Hospital as internes for the summer in New York City. I had a very newsy letter from LEO McINTYRE from 70S Eighth Ave., Bethlehem, Penn. Leo is still on the Bethlehem Globe-Times. He men­tioned that TOM BOV is with the IngersoU-Rand Co. at 11 Broadway, New York City. RAY' BOV is em­ployed by R. C. A., Camden N. J. and is studying for his master's degree in electrical engineering at the Univer­sity of Pennsvlvania. 
CH.A.RLES "MCDERMOTT, Allen­town, '27, is spending his time profit­ably at home selling bonds, according to Leo's letter. 
WILLIAM J. REDDEN of Mil­waukee wTites that PAUL BRUST, Architecture, '28, intends to leave with a small party this month for ten weeks abroad, ^^siting all countries except Spain, Norway and Sweden, in a study of continental architecture. 
1929 

Joseph P. JMcNamara, 231 Wisconsin 
St., Indianapolis, Ind., Secretary. Paul C. Bartholomew—South Bend. Ind. George N. Beamer—South Bend. Ind. Stephen C. Bocskei—South Bend. Ind. Georire A.. Brautiffan—Chicaso, 111. John Brennan—Gary, Ind. Slattheu- .1. Cullen—Chicago, III. 
E. B. DeBaene—Rochester, Mich. 
W. C. Fortier—South Bend. Ind. Walter V. Gildca—Fort Wayne. Ind, Thom.is J, Griffin—Chicago, III. Henry Hasloy—Fort Wayne, Ind. Richard E. Haush—Delphi, Ind. Robert AV. Hughes—Cincinnati, Ohio. Philip C. Hcmmins—Elgin, III. 
W. J. Johnson—East Chicago. Ind. Russell Kuehl—South Bend. Ind. Jos. W. Lauber—South Bend, Ind. Ed. Lyons—South Bend, Ind. John J. Lyons—Chicago, 111. Wm. E. May—Peoria, III, Fred C. Miller—jrihvautcc. Wis, George Monroe—Macomb, III. 
C. E. McDermott—Chicago, III, Jos, P, McNamara—Indianapolis, Ind, Thomas M, McNicholas—Notre Dame, Ind. Don. J. Plunkutt—Cadillac, Mich, James J. Quinn—Gars', Ind. Rev. Sidney Raomers—Notre Dame. Ind. 
J. S. Eiordan—Chicago, HI, R, A. Schlager—Elgin, III. Frank A. Smola—Chicago, HI. Jos. S. Sullivan—Chicago, III. 
1930 Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth Ave., New Kensington, Pa., Secretary. Joseph L. Apodaca—Notre Dame. Ind. 
James A. Bartley, C.S.C.—Notre Dame, Ind, John A. Bitter—San Antonio, Texas, C D, Bohrman—Auburn, New York, Harrj- A. Busscher—Melnose Park, III, Louis C. Chapleau—South Bend, Ind. Edward G. Conroy—San Antonio, Texas, Harry Draves—South Bend. Ind, 
B. T, Crosby—Delphi, Ind, Laurence F, Enright—Chicago, III. Arthur J. Gallagher—Cleveland, Ohio. Wm. H. Hamill—Utrca. New York. Louis L. Hasley—Notre Dame. Ind. Paul C. Hcidkamp—Chicigo, III. Jerome P, Holland—Chicago, 111, 
H. T. Hork.i—Chicago, HI. Harold Jennings—South Bend. Ind. 
T. F. Kenneally—Watorbury. Conn. 
W. M. Langford—McAllen. Texas. 
F. Noi-man Liliig—Chicago, III. 
A. Leo Love—Ottiunwa, Iowa, R,iy A, Loyce—Crown Point, Ind, 
V. J. Martzel—Blue Island, III. Thomas G. Medland—Chicago, HI, John T, Moran—Oak Park, 111, Edmund L. Morrissey—Chicago, III, Devere T. Plunkett—South Bend, Ind, Henr5- Pratt—Peoria, III. Raymond Reardon—Waukegan, HI. John T. Rocap—Indianapolis, Ind. 
J. H. Simpson—Oak Park. III. Charles T. Smallwood—Chicago. III. Robert Soper—Newark, New York. Frank Sowa—Woodbum, Oregon. Jas. ^V. Sullivan—Royal Oak. Mich. Malcolm E. Trombley—Mt. Clemens, Mich, Francis J. Walker—New York City. ICarl R. Weigand—Notre Dame. Ind, 
I have not much in the way of news, but these few items should help. 
PHIL FLYNN of Brookline, Mass­achusetts, came through with a let­ter this month. Phil is president of the Phillip S. Flynn, Inc., a growing concern which deals in used cars and automobile service. The company has been going ahead despite the depres­sion and we are all hoping that he has continued success. By the way, Phil wants all visitors to Boston to be sure to look him up. 
"CHICK" DRISCOLL, also of Brookline, is working at Marshall Field & Company in Chicago. 
TOM DONOVAN and BILL MOR­AN are keeping in the scholastic limelight at Han-ard Medical school. They are both doing very well. 
Sincerely, 
Bernie Coni-oy, '30. 
1931 John E. Boland, Secretary 1-102 Linden, Scranton, Pa. 

The Alumni Office is pleased to an­nounce to the Class of 1931 the ap­pointment of JOHN BOLAND, sec­retary of the Class of 1931 as the continuing incumbent in that impor­tant office. John will serve as the cleai-ing house for news of the Class in this column of the ALUMNUS. Don't burden him with the necessity for driving you or sleuthing on your trails. Drop him a line of your own activities and those of the fellows of your Class near you. You will enjoy news and gossip from others. So will they enjoy a word from you. 







