The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
riiiii •III » inir'tiiiiii ir« 
TH E NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
"^ 

=%it 
.-#"' \-., 

••«» 
^ 
Ik 

Club Communion Breakfasts May 2 
Alumni Hall Tower 
APRIL, 1943 
Vol. 21 No. 4 

Ali44fl4U llelUf40444. R44Ueti4t 
iBY REV. JOHN P. LYNCH, C.S.C.: 
("Tile Alumni Religioxis Bulletin" is lieneeforth to be a regular feature of the ALUMNUS, and in spirit, as well as in name, it will be more than a little remi­niscent of the "Religious Bulletin" tliat has been such a potent part of campus life for the past 20 years. . . . Writer of the "Alumni Religious Bulletin": Rev. John P. Lynch, C.S.C., '25. Father Lynch finished in laia at Fordham and practiced law in Neiv York before he returned to Notre Dame in 1931 to enter the Congre­gation. He was ordained in 1937. He was assistant prefect of religion and prefect of religion until 1942, when he was given a leave of absence for a year. Father Lynch will be glad to ansicer any alum­ni inquiries directed to him in care of the ALUMNUS—Eds.) 
KEEP THE FAITH! 

That's as good a title as any for a few thoughts on religion, but come to think of it, it's too negative. It signifies too much a defensive attitude, jus t holding on. We Catholics hav e been on the de­fensive too long, just keeping the Fait h (though that's a job, at times) and keep­ing it out of sight too, failing to 
bring, it into our Father Lynch 
business, social and political life. 
Too many millions of Catholics have just "kept the Faith," on the defensive, instead of leading the way as is their right and duty on fundamental princi­ples. While we've been on the defensive, others have grabbed the ball and run— the wrong way. Hence, the mess today, with no lunpire to guide, rule and pre­vent dirty play. Sure, the metaphor is mixed, but so is the world—and almost everybody in it except the See of Peter who sees.back almost 2000 years and also way ahead; so far and clearly ahead that he predicted and warned us about all this savagery, mess and confusion, 10, 20, 50, 100, 500 years ago. 
OFTENSE IS THE BEST DEFENSE 

Didn't Rock always use that principle? There's a lot of fun on the offense too; knocks and bruises, yes, but you can give it too. On the defense, it's mostly just taking it, just holding on, and you never 
win by just holding on. 
Rock had a lot of what is needed to­day in Catholics, when you come to think of it. Remember once the game was go­ing badly? Rock sent in a young player, reminding him, "I'm sending you in there to fight." The kid eyed. Rock solemnly with, "I'll fight in there till I die." Rock roared back, "Cut out that dying stuff. We need an offense, not defense. Fight to live—and win." 
WHAT IS THE SPIBn OF NOTBE DAME? 
Fundamentally, it is spiritual thou£^ we see it more often influencing the body on the gridiron. It must be fundamentally spiritual if it has anything to do with Our Lady, and that spirituality shouldn't be anjrthing negative, colorless, lifeless, fearful, defensive. "Fighting Irish" gives the lie to aU those weasel words. 
Yet doesn't the average Catholic re­gard the state of grace (the first step, in spiritual life) quite like this: "The state of grace is absence of sin," i.e., en­mity with God? 
All right, suppose you are married to Sally. I don't know it, and casually ask you if you love Sally. You answer mere­ly, "Well, I'm not an enemy of hers"; or after the glorious 1942 Seahawk game, I ask you, "How did N.D. come out?" and you answer, "Well, she didn't lose." 

Have you given me 1/lOOOth of the real picture of your true relations with Sally or of the game? Sure not; and "absence of sin" is just the absence of black com­pared to the blinding glory which is ours when in the state of grace. We then par­ticipate in the Divine Nature, are broth­ers of Christ, Sons of God and members of the Mystical Body of Christ. These aren't just nice phrases, but very ex-. plicitly explained, defended and backed up by the Rock of Peter. 
That's our dignity, when in the state of grace, and it's subject to increase by every good act, every prayer, every Sac­rament. All this, with its resultant dig­nity, was bought by Christ at the price of His Blood, so that we wouldn't just keep the Faith but share and spread it. With His Blood He paid for us,—gladly, willingly, lovingly, TOthout a lot of whin­ing and haggling. We're pretty expen­sive creatures and we shouldn't go to rust. Christ didn't expect us to crawl through life with our "dimmers" or black-out lights on. He asked us to be the light on the mountain top, afraid of nothing and never "blacking out." 
It's only when we're in the state of grace that we really live. And we ought to fight, not just against dying, but to live more—and to win; and to win not just for our own puny selves but above all for something outside, much bigger than ourselves—^for Some One. 
That theme is outlined in a story print­ed long ago in The Ave Maria, reprinted in the Bulletin maybe while you were here. Let's read it again and chew it over. 
I AM THIBp 
An outstanding leader on a college campus was admired by all for his ex­cellent good nature, spirit of happiness, of charity, and of fearless leadership. One night a bunch gathered in his room to share his box from home. 
During the chatter and horse-play one asked him: "Why that framed motto on your desk there—'I am third?' Is it a song or a story of a broken heart?" 
The host ignored the question but his evasion and the guest's insistence cen­tered everybody's attention on the motto. He had to explain.­
"Well, I'll tell you. That's something that my mother gave to me just before I left for college. She is the finest woman that God ever put on this earth. She told me it was her motto and the cause of all her happiness, and that I'd have happi­ness too if I kept it. That's all there is to it. — Now on with the eats. I've been talking while you robbers have been eat­ing and I've got to catch up." 

"You'll eat when you give us the whole story. It's a good beginning, but what's the ending? What does the motto mean?" He was one against ten and couldn't dodge. 
"All right, if you insist," he said after a pause. "It being my mother, her words sunk in: 'Here's the secret of my happi­ness, son; you won't find any better in any college or in any place in the world, than this—God is first; others are sec­ond, and I am third.'" 
It takes years to see the wisdom of that, but you older alumni as you check back can see its truth in your own life and in others. Forgetting who comes first and second is the main cause of the cor­ruption and misery, the greed, selfishness and savagery in the present world, inter­nationally, nationally and individually. Just apply it in some personal lives you know, in business, in some marriages. 
Incidentally, when did you last bring home some flowers or candy for the wife? Why not shock her by some unexpected 
show of affection? 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1. 1939, at the Postoffice. Notre Dame. Indiana, under the act of August 24. 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National OithoUc'Alnmni Federation. 
Joznetf E. Armstrong* '25, Editor; Vt^lliam R. Docler* '26« Maaoging EcHlor 
VOL 21 APRIL, 1943 No. 4 
Club Communion Breakfasts May 2 
Peace and Honoring of Service Men to 
be Theme; New Plan to Supplant Uni­
versal Notre Dame Night for This Year. 
These are not normal times, as you know too well. Your alumni Board and the University administration have tried to work out a plan for Universal Notre Dame Night in keeping with current con­ditions. 
Monday, May 3, the Monday after Easter Monday, would have been the traditional date. And Sunday, May 2, would have been the traditional reunion of alumni in conjunction with Commence­ment. 
Travel restrictions and accelerated program have made the May 2 Com­mencement merely a convocation, ^vith­out the fanfare of the Commencement week-end. And, of course, there will be no alumni reunion. 
Banquet and transportation restric­tions have made evening meetings of the Clubs difficult at best. 
So, when the motives of this 1943 Night, the 20th annual program, came up, the whole picture changed. 
Peace, and the honoring of the Notre Dame men in the sei-vice, were decided upon as the most universal appeals for this occasion. 
The hundreds of Notre Dame men in service in camps and bases near to Local Clubs who might participate in the pro­gram should be definitely considered. 
And the solution has shifted the tra­ditional program for this year to the suggestion from your Association and the University that the universal obser­vance be, not a meeting on Monday night, but a Club Communion Breakfast in all Clubs on Sunday morning. May 2. 
This type of program obviously serves to best adavntage the purposes and lim­itations of this year. 
1.
 It offers an opportunity for prayers for peace and for the Notre Dame men of the Club, arfd in general, who are in the service, especially the 38 already dead. (See listing elsewhere on this page.) 

2.
 It permits a speaker to the same extent that the evening meeting would. 

3.
 Service men in nearby camps or bases will for the most part be free to attend this observance, whereas most of them would be unable to attend a week night observance. 

4.
 In many cases these N.D. service 


men can be invited to alumni homes for the week-end or for Sunday. 
5.
 Most of the students now on the campus will be at home and can be in­vited to the Communion Breakfast. Larg^ numbers of these boys will be leaving for service soon afterward. 

6.
 A breakfast is much easier to ar­range than an evening meal of any attractive proportion. 


-,;.,.7;; The. Communion Breakfast combines the discharge. Of aji obligation, with legit­imate transportation allowances, so that the effort and''the 'convenience of the members are both served to'best advan­tage. 
8.
 The whole publicity and tone of such an observance is more in tune with the seriousness of the war and the major part that Notre Dame men are already playing. ffj, 

9.
 The Clubs will in effect be holding the- alumni participation in Commence­ment in a nation-wide instalment plan, as against the complete severance of the tradition. While the Clubs are meeting, the Mass for the graduates of the May 


DIED IN SERVICE Charles F. Bebeau. ex. '43 Matthew A. Byine, Jr.. '42 Edward J. Brockman. ex. '45 James L. Carroll, ex. '40 Francis X. Clarke. '39 James T. Connell. '40 Milton E. Connelly, ex. '43 AUen H. Elward. Jr.. ex. '44 John P. Ffreneh. '34 John V. Flynn. '36 Joseph C Foley. '37 Robert E. Fordyce. ex. '42 
Your Prayers Are 
Richard S. Freeman, ex. '29 
OUver P. HeUand. Jr.. '39 Hershel G. Horton. ex. '43 Fergus F. Kelly. '37 
John B. Moos. Jr.. ex. '42 WiUiam P. Marsh. '41 
Newton L. Mathews, ex. '36 Hugh F. McCaHery. '27 
WTiUiom J. Mcjunkin. '41 Richard L. Novak. '29 
Charles H. O'Donnell, ex. '40 
Edward H. Phelan. Jr.. ex. '40 Eugene A. Poletto. '40 
 Especially Requested for: 
Francis V. Quackenbush. ex. '38 MISSING IN ACTION Ambrose L Rice. Jr. ex. '38 Robert D. Bijur. ex. '42 
Joseph F. Riley, ex. '37 John L. aone.'40 
Edward J. Schreiber. '41 Henry J. McConnell. ex. '37 
Anthony J. Seaman, ex. '40 Howard K. PelscheL ex. '42 --_ 
Lionel V. O. Smith. '33 Joseph J. Reardon, ex. '22 John T. Von Hon. '40 Edward F. Rorice, ex. '39 
George C. Woss^ll. '31 George W. Weber, ex. '40 PRISONERS OF WAR ? Thomas J. Webster, '40 Richord J. CarroIL '37 (RoBans) John I^.Whelan, Jr> ex. '43 Thomas P. Foy. '38 Qopanese) John H. Wiechman, ex. '43 George K. Petatiix, ex. '38 Qopanese) George A. Woli, ex. '39 Morio G. TonclH. '39 (Japanese) 
Class will be celebrated on the campus, and some 150 more Kotre Dame alumni will join our ranks. 
10. May is a month particularly rich in the traditions of Notre Dame, with its devotions to Our Lady, the hymns at the Grotto, the special prayers, the Ros­ary. 

Your Alumni Board and the Universi­ty sincerely trust that the plan, based on the reasons above, will not only meet with your approval but will meet wth an active response which will find Sun­day morning. May 2, filled with the communions, the Masses and the prayers of Notre Dame men everywhere, in and out of the service, directed through a beloved channel, the Queen of Peace, to Her Son, the Prince of Peace. 
The plan is left entirely in the hands of the Clubs. We will of course cooper­ate as best we can. This year it is not easy, as you can easily see. But we are most anxious to make this, despite its differences, one of the most universal of all the long line of Notre Dame obser­vances. 

Military Honors -for Notre Dame Men 
The War Department announced on March 3 that the advanced flying school near Seymour, Ind., would be named Freeman Army Air Field in honor of Capt. Richard S. Freeman, ex. '29, of the Army Air Corps, who was killed in a crash near Lovelock, Nev., Feb. 6, 1941. 
CAPT. RICHARD S. FREEMAN 

Dick, from Winamac, Ind., attended Notre Dame in 1925-26, then received an appointment to the United States Mili­tary Academy, where he was graduated in 1930 after establishing a brilliant record in both studies and activities. 
His brilliance and achievement were to go on. At his death Dick was com­mandant of the all-important Ladd Field in Alaska, had been awarded the Distin­guished Flying Cross and had shared in the Mackay Trophy for exceptional skill in aviation. In 1934, when General (then Lieut. Col.) Henry H. Arnold com­manded a flight of 10 Martin Bombers from Washington, D. C, to Fairbanks, Alaska, Dick accompanied him as a mem­ber of the crew. Dick also participated in the historical flight of the Army Squadi-on to Molokai from whence the remains of Father Damian were taken to be placed in a transport vessel and sent to Father Damian's native Belgium. 
Dick participated in the mass "Good Will Flight" of B-17 Flying Fortresses to Buenos Aires and return in 1938. Later he was co-pilot and navigator on a flight from Langley Field to Bogota, Colombia, and return, and for this flight he received the Distinguished Fly­ing Cross. He was a member of the B-17 Flying Fortress which was used in film­ing the motion picture "Test Pilot." Dick flew with Red Cross supplies to relieve earthquake sufferers in Chile in 1939, and for this flight he received the com­mendation of the Secretary of War. 
The Order been awarded Lieut. Hershel  of the Purple Heart has  posthumously to First  G. Horton, ex. '43, Au­
1ST. LIEUT. HERSHEL G. HORTON 
rora, 111., who was killed in action on Dec. 2 during a battle in New Guinea. (See February, 1943, ALUMNUS). Her­shel was one of 367 American soldiers who were surrounded for three weeks by Japanese on Sanananda Road in Papua. They beat off all attacks and eventually aided in smashing the Japs who surrounded them. It is believed that Hershel was killed in this action. 
1ST. LIEUT. C. G. OLFVEROS 
1st Lieut. Charles Gard Oliveros, Jr., 

'41, was recently awarded the Oak Leaf 
cluster for "extraordinary achievement 
while participating in aerial flight." 
As a co-pilot, Gard held his wounded companion off the controls with one hand while he took the plane for the bombing run and then flew it back to the base when the mission was completed. 
This is his second award since he has been serving with the Army Air Corps in North Africa. Previously he was awarded the Air Medal. 
FATHER BAUER ORDAINED 

Rev. Edwin C. Bauer, C.S.C, '37, ninth member of a family of 14 in the religious life and fourth member in the Congre­gation of Holy Cross, was ordained in Washington, D. C, on Feb. 16, by the Most Rev. John M. McNamara, D.D., 
LL.D . '34. He celebrated his first solemn high Mass in St. Mary's Church, Man­chester, Mich., on Feb. 21. 
The newly-ordained priest is a brother of Rev. Lawrence T. Bauer, C.S.C, '31, a missionary in India, and of Brother Christopher, C.S.C, Watertown, Wis., and Brother Protase, C.S.C, at Notre Dame. Another brother is John B. Bauer, '31, St. Mary's, Ky. Four sisters are Sisters of Mercy and a fifth sister, now dead, was a member of that order. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The Campus in Wartime-It's Different 
Dances are Merged; Publication of "Dome" Suspend­ed; Dining Hall Routine Changed; Students Work in Defense Industries; Sorin Evil-Eye Club Plants Garden 
The campus in wartime . . it's the same . . . yet different. 
The Dome gone for the duration . . . as in World War I. . . . The venerable Scholastic published 10 times in each semester instead of 13 times . . . but there are three semesters now. . . . Navy ads (uniforms) predominate and there is color on the cover and inside. . . . Scriji once each semester instead of twice. . . . the Catalyzer also out for the duration. 
The Senior Ball and Junior Prom merged . . . Ted Fio Eito played on March 5 in that Palais Eoyale .. . do you remember it? the sophs danced too . . . on March 16 to Grade Barrie's band . . . but the whole school was admitted . . . even freshmen . . . and it was "semi­formal" . . . the war you know. 
Memories of pre-World I days revived as University Theatre presents "A Tail­or-Made Man" . . . and it's a smash hit in eyes of prospective combatants in World War II . . . "The Spirit of Notre Dame," choral symphony portraying Notre Dame's 100 years, presented by Glee Club . . . and gets ovation . . . ar­rangements and original music by Pro­fessor Pedtke, club director . . , poetic narrative by Kelly Cook, Lexington, Ky., editor, December Dome, now Air Corps cadet. 
The Dining Hall is different . . . cafe­teria system installed last September in each wing . . . and now students receive cards each month to be punched at each meal .. . to facilitate punching only one 
entrance to each wing is used east wing enters opposite Dillon . . . west wing oposite Kockne Memorial . . . each entrance has tentlike shelter for protec­tion against weather . . . but there is no circus inside . . . rationing and' man­power and womanpower shortage plus feeding Navy, have left their mark on efficient Jim Connolly, manager . . . im­agine your domestic help difficulties and your head-scratching about points both multiplied a hundredfold—or a thousand­fold .. . or two thousandfold .. . or more .. . but the boys still look remairkably healthy. 
Mid - February and l.'iO . Army Air 
Corps Reserves called from the campus in one crack . . . and numerous others going daily since the semester started, mostly draftees . . . until the total en­rollment is down below 2,200 from the 2,600 that began in January . . . the ERC's (Army Reserves) of whom there are several hundred locally are still wor­ried but untouched . . . but will go the way of all young men come May . . . Father Trahey, campus coordinator of military affairs, the campus' most sought-after man . . . "what shall I do?" . . . "what shall I do?" . . . Father operates from suite in Engineering Building . . . suite marked by flag, waving in mechani­cal breeze as befits engineering building. .. . He directed A-12 and V-12 tests on 
BULLETIN 

Bev. Hugh ODonneU, C S. C. president oi the University, cm­nounced on April 7 that he had received official coniinnation from the United States Navy department that 1,851 men had been assigned to Notre Dame under the new Navy V-12 training program, which will begin on or about July 1. This program is seperate from and in addition to the Navy's midshipmen school novr on the Notre Dame campus. 
The new V-12 trainees will have the status of apprentice seamen. They will be taught by the regular faculty of the University under cur­ricula described as basic, engineer­ing, pre-medic and the NJ.O.T.C. 
Father O'Donnell added that un­der the new program five residence halls of the University will be turn­ed over to the V-12 trainees, leav­ing the remaining five residence halls free for the normal operation of the University's academic pro­gram. 
Specific details of the Navy pro­gram will be announced at a later date, as will details of the Univer­sity program which will be revised to meet the conditions of the Navy's new pro;ect. 
April 2, taken by 700 at Notre Dame . , . classes dismissed for morning. 
Many students in defense industries in South Bend and Mishawaka . . . w^orking 4 P.M. to 12 M. shift... or approximate­ly such . . . Dining Hall cooperates by packing box lunches for war workers and allowing them to eat breakfast in Caf up to 9 A.M. . . . Red Lonergan, high-powered Scholastic promotion man­ager, promotes campus registration in Comptroller's orffice for those who want defense jobs .. . in cooperation with United States Employment office. South Bend . . . some campus defense workers take on only four hours work per night . . . several accountants at Bendix for instance . . . yes, this Notre Dame is different when the boys are getting back, at 1.30 A.M., from their jobs at Ball Band, Mishawaka. 
Sorin Hall Evil Eye Club takes on Victory Garden . . . many pictures taken and rakes displayed in dug-up plot near Biology Building . . . but lifers are wait­ing for the actual lettuce . . . Father Burke, prefect of discipline, has picture taken, with his rake at workmanlike angle . . . Evil Eye Club sells defense stamps to Sorinites . . . and successfully . . . Sorin had lagged in stamp purchases . . . stamp activity sponsored by K. of C. 
Only 48 show up for spring football . . . used to be almost that maiiy end candidates. . . . Baseball, golf and tennis crowding a lot of competition into about two weeks. . . . Commencement- May-2 acording to present calendar you know . . . outdoor trackmen go to Drake and Penn Relays but no place else . . . pity, too, with such a team . . . Notre Dame's best ever, some say. 
The midshipmen . . . they're every­where . . . especially in South Bend on week-ends . . . and yet so accustomed to them have the campus and the city be­come that they're now an accepted part of the scene . . . the Service Men's Cen­ter in the Bend does a magnificent job for them and for all other service men . . . Navy officers and their families add brilliantly to the social scene . . . that is, after they find a house or apartment 
to live in .. . no WAVES yet despite many rumors . . . the new Navy drill hall behind the Gym took part of Jake Kline's baseball diamond and forced the profes­sor to build a new one nearby. 
The campus in wartime . . . it's differ­ent . . . there's e.\citement . . . tense­ness . . . sorrow . , . every week or of­tener the Religious Bulletin asks prayers for an alumnus dead in service . . . the campus stands reverently while the tiavy raises the flag at sunrise and lowers it at sunset . . . even the lights flooding the dome are no longer lit. 
And yet it's the same Notre Dame. The dome is still there. 
AHENDS NUTRITION MEETING 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, presi­dent of the University, attended the spring meeting of the Nutrition Founda­tions, Inc., in New York City. 
The foundation has bsen established by 1.5 of the nation's leading food indus­tries to develop nutrition as a basic sci­ence of public health. The meeting of the board will consider grants-in-aid, from the funds contributed to its work, to var­ious colleges and universities in the country. 
War, and the problems of rationing have intensified the research, conducted under the foundation, in its fii-st year. Now public support is being solicited to further the purposes of the food indus­ti-y, and the imxjrovement of the food and diet of the people of America. 
Among the other members of the board representing the public are Dr. Kai-1 Compton, president of Massachusetts In­stitute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass., chairman of the board; Walter Coffey, president of the University of Minneso­ta, Minneapolis, Minn; Hay Lyman Wil­bur, chancellor of Stanford University, Palo Alto, Calif.; and Dr. Thomas Par-ran, Washington, D. C, surgeon general of the United States Army. 
STUDENT DIES 
A freshman at the University, Edwin 
E. Matthews, age 19, of South Orange, 
N. J., died suddenly March 30 after a brief illness. 

Cadets in the Naval EOTC attended a special high Mass in Sacred Heart Church for Matthews, who was a mem­ber of the group. 
Prof. John H. Sheehan, '37, head of the Department of Economics at the Uni­versity, under«'ent a serioui spinal oper­ation at the University of Michigan hos­pital, Ann Arbor, Jan. 19. Prof. Sheehan has been in bed in a cast since then, and will remain there for some weeks. 
g*^ 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
TO THE CENTENABY FUND 
Friends of the University 

The Schlitz Foundation, Inc., Milwaukee, Wis $10,000 2,300 
Anonymous 

Jack L. Warner, Burbant, Calif.-1,000 Dudley Nichols, Hollywood, Calif.. 500 Joseph B. Ryan, New York City .(Defense Bond) 500 Walter Wanger, Los Angeles, Callf„ 200 The Denhom Theatre, Inc., per B. D. Cockrill, Denver 
(in co-operation with the Notre Dame Club of Denver)-1,017 Leo Forbstein, Beverly Hills, Calif 100 Mark Hellinger, Hollywood, Calif 100 Walter Huston, Hollywood, Calif. 100 John Hyde, Beverly Hills, Calif 100 Jesse L. Lasky, Burbank, Calif.-100 Most Rev. George L. Leech, Harrisburg, Po.. 100 Eugene Lockhart, Hollywood, Calif-100 Edward G. Robinson, Beverly Hills, Calif.. 100 Jack Chertok, Beverly Hills, Calif 50 Miss Bette Davis, Glendale, Calif.. 50 Harry Sherman, Los Angeles, Calif.. 50 Vincent Sherman, Hollywood, Calif.. 50 Miss Sonya Levien, Beverly Hills, Calif-50 
R. J. Obringer, Glendale, Calif.. 50 David Selznick, Culver City, Calif-50 Delmer L. Daves, West Los Angeles, Calif-25 Louis F. Edelman, Hollywood,, Calif-25 Sidney A. Franklin, Beverly Hills, Calif-25 James Geller, Beverly Hills, Calif. 25 Gaetano Gaudio, Sherman Oaks, Calif-25 Alex Gottlieb, Von Nuys, Calif 25 Ray Heindorf, Beverly Hills, Calif-25 
A. & S. Lyons, Inc., per Arthur Lyons, Beverly Hills, Calif-25 John Pierre Roche, Chicago, 111. (Second payment on pledge of $100)_ 25 Gerald Scully, Lancaster, Pa. 25 Stephen Trilling, Burbank, Calif. . 25 Jerry Wald, Los Angeles, Calif-25 Sidney Greenstreet, Hollywood, Calif-20 Gordon Hollingshead, West Los Angeles, Calif-20 Fred Gage, Beverly Hills, Calif-15 Jack Carson, North Hollywood, Calif-10 Rev. Denis J. Donovan, Barker, N. Y 10 Paul Kohner, Hollywood, Calif-10 Joseph B. Moorman, Cincinnati, O 10 
Keith Winter, West Los Angeles, Calif-10 
Alumni Participation* 

Clyde E. Broussard, '13, Beaumont, Texas-1,000 Karl F. Johnson, '29, Kokomo, Ind 1,000 Fred C. Miller, '29, Milwaukee, Wis. ..(Defense Bond) 1,000 Joseph M. Byrne, '15, Newark, N. J.... 500 
J. Bell Moran, ex. '07, Detroit, Mich-500 Anonymous 100 Anthony Mulvaney, '35, Royal Oak, Mich-25 John B. Kanaley, '09, Chicago--(Defense Bond) 25 
(Third payment on $100 pledge.) Lieut. James P. Aylward, Jr., '41, Kansas City, Mo-20 Ray Conrad, '21, St. Cloud, Minn 10 
TO THE NIEUWLAND FOUNDATION 
J. Bell Moran, ex. '07, Detroit, Mich 500 
TO THE UNIVEBSITY UBBABY 
Shane Leslie, London, England, LL.D. '35: "Letters of Cardinal Vaughan to Lady Herbert of Lea"; and an autograph of A. W. Pugin's letter to the Earl of Shrewsbury. 
C. A. Breitung, Dallas, Texas: a letter written by Charles Carroll of CarroUton; and a book "Tepotzotlan" (Art and Color in Mexico). 
* The silts listed under this heading were received from alumni by the Public Kelations 
office. Gifts received from alumni by the Alumni Office (between Jan. 15 and March 15) are 
listed under the various classes in this issue, but without amounts. A complete register of 
alumni gifts to the Centenary Fund, with names and amounts, will, it is now anticipated, be 
puuisbed in June. 

The Notre Da Al 
u m n u s 

Thomas F. Woodlock Is Laetare Medalist 
Thomas F. Woodlock, distinguished author and editor of the Wall Street Journal, was announced on April 4 as the recipient of the Laetare Medal, awarded annually since 1883 by the University of Notre Dame to an out­standing Catholic layman in the United States. 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C. S. C, presi­dent of the university, in announcing the selection of the 61st medalist, said: 
"Notre Dame honors Mr. Thomas F. Woodlock as one of the most vigorous and effective apologists among the Cath­olic laity of America over a long period of years. Moreover, this same ability ^ d integrity have characterized his work with the Wall Street Journal and the Interstate Commerce Commission, bringing high principle and excellent ex­ample into the heart of the business and economic life of this country. In recent years the facile pen of Mr. Wood-lock has broadened its scope and per­mitted the entire nation to enjoy the fruits of his fine mind. He has attacked the problems of our day with a clarity and a fortitude which have won for him preeminence as an apostle of truth." 
Thomas Francis Woodlock was bom in Ireland on September 1, 1866, the son of Thomas and Emilia Moran Woodlock. After early years of schooling in Ireland, he entered Beaumont College at Wind­sor, England, the Catholic "public" school corresponding to Eton and Har­row. He matriculated at London Uni­versity in honors, third of 1,100 students. He later attended St. Francis College, New York City from which he received his honorary Master of Arts degree in 1905; he received the Doctor of Laws d^ree from Fordham University in 1906. 
Before coming to America in Septem­ber, 1892, Mr. Woodlock was a member of the London Stock Exchange for several years. When he arrived in New York he joined the late Charles H. Dow and Edward D. Jones in the Dow-Jones News Service, specializing in American railroads. He attracted notice as an economist, and after the death of Mr. Dow in 1902 he became the editor of the WaU Street Journal, which position he held until 1905. 
yl 

Recipient Is Editor of "Wall Street 
"Journal" and Author of Widely Her­
alded Book, "The Catholic Pattern" 
After his resignation from the editor­ial chair of the Wall Street Journal, Mr. Woodlock became a member of the New York Stock Exchange, in partnership with Schuyler N. Warren. After a few years, however, he returned to news­paper work and economic writing, chiefly in connection with railroads. He was for some time a contributor on financial matters to the Snn, conducting the column, "By Way of Comment." 
Thomas F. Woodlock 

In the early days of the Catholic News, New York's official Catholic paper, Mr. Woodlock was a contributor of editorial articles. 
In 1918 he joined the .American Inter­national Corporation, becoming its secre­tary in time. He resigned this post in 1923, and two years later he was ap­pointed by President Coolidge to the Interstate Commerce Commission, with which he sei-ved until 1930, when he re­joined the Wall Street Journal as con­tributing editor. When he resigned from the Interstate Commerce Commission President Hoover in a public statement regretted the resignation and said that Mr. Woodlock had rendered "very dis­tinguished service to his country." 
f 

Mr. Woodlock is a trustee of Manhat­tanville College of the Sacred Heart, and is a member of the Catholic Club and many other clubs in New YoA City. He was a pioneer member of the Nation­al Catholic Alumni Federation and bis brilliant adresses are highlights of many of the proceedings of that organization. Mr. Woodlock contributed several artic­les to the Catholic Encyclopedia and was a member of the board of directors of that project. He also pioneered in the retreat movement in this country, at Manresa, Staten Island, and is a former president and one of the organizers, of the Laymen's League for Retreats and Social Studies. Catholic periodicals have carried many excellent articles in recent years from his able pen. 
Among his published books are The Anatomy of A Railroad Rejwrt (1895), Ton Mile Cost (1899), and the book pub­lished in 1942 which has been heralded by all Catholic apologists. The Catholic Pattern. 
Selection of Mr. Woodlock as the recipi­ent on the 60th anniversary of the found­ing of the Medal will add a popular as well as a highly respected name to the long list of Medalists of whom John GO­mary Shea, historian, was the first. The 1942 Medal was awarded to Helen Con­stance White, University of Wisconsin professor and president of the American Association of the University women. 
926 IN DEFENSE COURSES 

Again this semester the courses nnder the engineering, science, management war-training plan of the U.S. Depart­ment of Labor and the U.S. Ofiice of Education are being taught at the Uni­versity. 
A total of 926 men and women from various factories and other places of business in South Bend and vicinity come to Notre Dame each week for the ses­sions. 
The following courses lead the others in enrollment: Basic Industrial Account­ing, 74 men and women; Aircraft En­gines, 96 men; Elementary Engineering and Drawing, 79, 68 of whom are St. Mary's College students; Basic Mathe­matics, 48 men; Motion and Time Study, 64 men and women; and Tool and Die 
Design, 39 registrants. 
Noi^ie. 3>(ime Rooki 
Notre Dame readers have seldom had opportunities in new books so closely con­nected with Notre Dame as they have had in recent months. The Centenary seems to have provided a general stimu­lus to authors, and this particular field of Notre Dame action has been adding victory to \actory, in a veiy diversifisd series. 
Many alumni will welcome Frank Wal­lace's ('23) new novel, Explosion (Wil­liam Morrow & Co., N. Y., $2.50). Frank's earlier novels, most of them in his basic field of sports, have won him not only many friends for their clean and powerful content, but also consider­able respect from critics for a rapidly developing style and literary quality. 

In this new work, Mr. Wallace goes into another field that is also familiar background for him, the mines of his home territory on the Pennsylvania-Ohio bordsr. This is a much deeper theme with much more subtle characters, in many respects, than the vivid but younger cast who peopled his sports novels. By the same token, the book is substantial evi­dence that Wallace has mastered a writ­ing power much broader even than the high standard exhibited in some of his top novels of athletics. 
In the part of the book that he knows from e.\perience, the real mine, the real characters, the real drama of a mine ex­plosion, the real life in a mine town, the book has a very mature writing touch. It is probably in the less familiar effort to create a I'omantic couple and to tie in the war with the plot that Fi-ank showed the touches that caused the New York Herald-Tribnne to mis-name it a first novel. Much critical praise and gen­erous space in the leading re\'iew col­umns indicates that Frank is well into the high brackets of his field, and Notre Dame enjoys increased reflected prestige from the new achievement. 
Rev. P. J. Carroll, C.S.C, editor of The Ave Maria, whose wx-iting is already es­tablished in Notre Dame history and hearts, adds another of his best liked contributions with a new novel Patch of Askeaton Daj/s (Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, $1.50). 
The book is a juvenile in its text, deal­ing with more adventures of the boy already a widespread favorite. Patch, as the present title implies, moves ahead in years and activities through a rich period of schooling in Askeaton in this volume. 
But mature readei's can find much pleasure in this little volume. If you re­member the richness of home-baked bread with home-made jam, before "mothgr's pies' plied the highways in ti-ucks; if you remember when "mis­chief" was not incorporated in the mor­bid nightmare of "juvenile delinquency," you will indeed enjoy Patch, in this or the previous work. 
And if anj^vhere in your veins there is a drop of Irish blood, thei-e is no age limit for readers of the present edition. For in this one, especially, the school theme gives Father Carroll a magnificent opportunity to draw the great parallel of Irish wisdom, the scholarly and state­ly forms of the rigid and x-espected schools, and the rich instinctive wisdom of the Irish mind, in the most humble and unschooled. Father Carroll does this with the success that comes from oppor­tunity to know and power to portray. 
International politics students are showing much interest in Prof. Yves Simon's new volume. The March to Lib­eration. (Tower Press, Milwaukee, $2.) 
Father Hope's A'ofre Davie—100 Years continues to acquaint a widening audi­ence with the first century of Notre Dame's rich record, while Father Charles Carey's edition of The Poems cf Charles 

L. O'Donnell is popular with many who are familiar with the work of the Uni­vei-sity's great poet-president. 
Prof. F. A. Hermens has brought out a booklet on P.R. and Gcod Government through the Review of Politics which has an enthusiastic if specialized reader in­terest. {Revieiv of Politics, Notre Dame, $1.25, cloth; $.75, paper.) 
Notre Dame is represented by four alumni in a recent issue of Books on Trial, which is edited by John C. Tully, '11, a trustee of the University. The pe­riodical is sponsored by the Thomas More Library and Bookshop, Chicago, also founded by Mr. Tully as a medium of Catholic Action. 
Several columns are devoted to a re­view of Nova Scotia, Land of Coopera­tors by Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C, profes­sor of philosophy. 
Brother Aidan, C.S.C, '27, of the De­partment of English, reviews The World's Great Catholic Literatarc, an anthology edited by Dr. George N. Shus­ter, '15, president of Hunter College, New York, and formerly head of the De­partment of English here. 
John Pick, '33, has taken a leave of absence from Boston College, Chestnut Hill, Mass., where he has been teaching in the English Department, to serve with the govei-nment as an administrative aide. 
His book, Gerard Manley Hopkins: Priest and Poet, which he worked at while studying at Oxford, was published in England last September and is to appear in this country this spring ac­cording to an announcement of the Ox­ford University Press. 
Back in 1889, on the eve of the new era in aviation, a Notre Dame gi-aduate began experiments which were eventually to lead to the position of curator of aero­nautics in the Library of Congress. 
The undergraduate was Albert F. Zahm, '83, and the scene of his experi­ments was the Notre Dame campus. His story is told by Jeremiah Milbank, Jr., in his book. The First Centjiri/ of Flight in America, published by Princeton Uni­versity Press. 
Zahm, Mr. Milbank writes, spent some time experimenting with models, motors, propellers, and gliders. "Once," the au­thor says, "even a glider dropped from a balloon was seriously considered, but at last rejected because of the expense of hiring a professional balloonist with his aerostat." 
Such early attempts as these, Mr. Mil-bank declares, deserve a place in the his­tory of aviation in America, even though they were not marked by actual flight success. 
N.R.O.T.C. AWARDS 

Capt. H. P. Burnett, U.S.N., command­ing the Naval R.O.T.C. at Notre Dame, has announced that the Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, Trophy will be award­ed on the completion of each academic year to that student of the senior Naval 
^R.O.T.C class who has attained the high­est merit in the R.O.T.C. course. 
A suitable award for excellence in Nav­igation will also be given at the end. of the semester marking the completion of the Navigation course for each Naval 
R.O.T.C. class, Capt. Burnett has an­nounced. 
An additional N.R.O.T.C. award is needed. Any individual or group inter­ested in providing it should communicate at once with Capt. Burnett. 
George E. Keogan Dies Suddenly 
Noted Basketball Coach Victim of Heart At­tack; Had Raised Notre Dame to Basketball Heights in Twenty-Year Career on Campus 
George E. Keogan, 52 years old, Notre Dame's brilliant basketball coach for 20 years, died in his home in South Bend 
GEORGE E . KEOGAN-

on Feb. 17, the victim of a heart attack. 
Like Knute K. Eockne and- John P. Nicholson, other members of the Notre Dame athletic Big Three in the late '20s, George went out suddenly: his death oc­curred little more than three hours after he concluded basketball practice in prep­aration for the all-important Great Lakes game in Chicago on Feb. 20. He had finished his dinner and was reading the evening paper when he slumped over in his chair. Dr. J. E. McMeel, Univer­sity physician, arriving within a few minutes, pronounced him dead. Eock had crashed to the Kansas plains on March 31, 1931, and Nick had collapsed after a heart attack in the South Bend Y.M.C.A. on April 2, 1940. 
And like Rock and Nick, George Keo­gan went out at the very peak of his ca­reer. His 1942^43 team winning 18 out of 20 games, (under Keogan and under his successor, Ed Krause) was generally considered to be second only to the Illi­famous Keogan teams of past years. Through 20 years, his Notre Dame teams had won 327 games, to 96 lost, for the amazing winning percentage of .771. 
For some time George hadn't been in the sturdiest health. In mid-season of 1940-41 a trip to the Mayo Clinic re­sulted in orders that he had to curtail his activities in order to protect his heart. In was then that Ray Meyer, '38, outstanding basketball captain in 1936­37 and 1937-38, came in as George's as­sistant and ran the team for much of the season. Ray remained for the follow­ing season but left a year ago to become basketball coach at DePaul in Chicago, where his success in 1942-43 won him national acclaim. Ed Krause, '34, one of Keogan's gi-eatest stars, was basketball assistant this year, as well as line coach in football. Though forced to cut down his former activity, George was in active charge of the team. 
Coach Keogan was buried on Feb. 20 after a solemn high . i-equiem Mass in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, cel­ebrated by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and chairman of the Board in Control of Athletics. Rev. James Gallagan, C.S.C., pastor of Christ the King Church, Roseland, Ind,, was deacon and Rev. Philip V. Beaghan, C.S.C, pastor of George's home parish. Holy Cross of South Bend, was sub-deacon. The sermon was preached by Rev. Wendell P. Cor­coran, C.S.C, pastor of St. Joseph's Church, South Bend. 
In attendance at the funeral Mass were many prominent sports figures from the Middle West, especially coaches and other representatives of teams with which George's teams had traditionally done battle, as well as innumerable alumni who had come under George's basketball teachings. Frank Leahy, ath­letic director and head football coach, returned from Florida for the funeral. The Naval R.O.T.C. was present in a body and acted as a guard of honor. 
Pallbearers were all members of the season's basketball team: Capt. Charles Butler, John Niemiera, Robert Faught, William Davis, Robert Rensberger and 
nois Whiz Kids in national ranking; a Coach Keogan is Carried into Sacred Heart Church by His Last Team as noteworthy successor to the nationally-Notre Dame NJLO.T.C. Forms Guard of Honor. 
Francis Curran. Burial was in Highland Cemetery, South Bend, where within a few feet lie also two of George's closest friends and associates in life—Knute Rockne and John Nicholson. Kev. Thom­as Brennan, C.S.C, of the University, officiated at the grave. 
Surviving George are his wife, Ruby, to whom he was married on Thanksgiv­ing Day, 1932, his mother, Mrs. T. M. Keogan, and a sister, Mrs. Clark Deahl, both of Minneapolis, 
Speaking in the absence of Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, president of the University, Father Cavanaugh issued the following statement at Coach Keogan's death: 
"George Keogan has rendered 20 years of loyal and brilliant sei-\'ice to the Uni­versity. Thei-e were veiy few men, if any, who excelled him in his profession. All who had known him well, and particular­ly the young men who played under him, will regi-et the passing of his intelligent, vigorous leadership. The prayerful heart­felt ssTiipathy of all Notre Dame is with his wife, his aged mother and his sister in these days of fresh and deep grief." 
Bom in Minneapolis on March 8, 1890, George enrolled in the School of Dentisti-y at the University of Minnesota upon his graduation from high school. He gave up dentistry, however, to take, at the age of 19, a coaching position with Charles City, la., College. In the following years he coached at Lockport, 111., High School, Riverside, 111., High School, Superior, Wis., State Teachers' College, St. Louis University, St, Thomas College of St. Paul, Minn. While he was at St. Thomas and World War I was in progress, George enlisted in the Army and was as­signed as an instructor to Fort Snelling, Minn., where he remained for the dura­tion. 
After the war, Coach Keogan produced, at Allegheny College, Meadville, Pa., the only unbeaten basketball team of his 34­year career; it won 18 straight in one season. Subsequently he became football, basketball and baseball coach at Valpa­raiso University, Valparaiso, Ind., where his ability came to the attention of Knute Rockne. George brought his football team to Cai-tier Field in 1921 for an early sea­son game. Though Notre Dame surged ahead in the late stages to win, 28 to 3, Valparaiso led for more than half the 

game, 3 to 0, and Rock admired the op­position that his team had got. 
The result was that, after a year at La Crosse, Wis., Central High School, George Keogan came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1923 as head coach of basket­ball and baseball and assistant coach of football. With the increasing pressure of his basketball duties he gradually The Notre Dame Alumnus 
 gave up most of his active participation in football and baseball but he retained until the end an intense interest in the gridiron as well as in baseball, serving frequently as a football scout. 
COACH KEOGAN 
(in his earhj Notre Dame days) 
Though George Keogan was highly proficient in coaching both football and baseball, he will be forever gratefully remembered at Notre Dame as the man who put local basketball on its feet and brilliantly kept it there. 
In the six years before Keogan's com­ing to Notre Dame, the "Victory Fives," playing all their home games on the dirt floor of the gjnnnasium, had compiled the not-too-impressive record of 3.5 won and 64 lost. That basketball at Notre Dame up to 1923 was not too highly regarded and that the facilities for playing it were inadequate, — well, those are simple statements of fact. 
But from the day that Keogan stepped on the campus as a Notre Dame coach all that changed. In his first year, when the home games were played on the Y.M.C.A. coui-t in South Bend, Keogan's team won 

1.5 and lost eight. The following season, when the big addition to the gym made possible the return of the home games to the campus, George had the poorest bas­ketball season in his Notre Dame career, —11 won and 10 lost. 
But for the ne.xt three years Keogan turned out three teams which rank with the great college teams of all time, teams which won 56 out of 62 games. In 1925­26 and again in 1926-27 the team lost only one game—each time to the "Won­der Five" of Franklin College by the same score, 33 to 22. Each defeat was on the Franklin floor. In each year, how­ever, Notre Dame defeated Franklin on the N.D. floor, 40 to 19 and 36 to 16. Clem and Francis Crowe, Johnny Nyikos, Ed Smith, Lou Conroy, Vince McNally, Johnny Colrick and Joe Jachym were some of the stand-out names of those days. 
In 1931-32 (18 won and two lost) and again in 1933-34 (20 won and four lost), each time with Ed Krause, All-American for three years, as the stand-out, George again had two of his greatest teams. And in 1935-36, with Johnny Moir and Paul Nowak heading a superb array of talent, the Keogan teams began a remarkable three-year era. Such well-remembered persons as Ray Meyer, Tommy Wuko­vits, George Ireland and Tommy Jordan combined with Moir and Nowak to bring about at the end of 1937-38 a record of 62 won, eight lost and one tied. 
Came the high-scoring Eddie Riska for three years and finally the magnificent team of this year which in all truth de­serves to be ranked with any great Notre Dame team of the past. (Details of the team's record for the year will be found in the sports section of this issue.) Tak­ing over immediately upon the death of Coach Keogan, Ed Krause, assistant coach, carried the team to victory in six of the remaining seven games. The only subsequent loss was to Great Lakes in a tremendous overtime battle in the Chica­go Stadium the day of George's funeral, 
but the boys avenged this at Great Lakes later. 
Coach Keogan's lifetime re at N.D.: 
IS2;i-2-J, Won 15 : Lost s 192-1-25. Won 11 : Lost 10 1925-2G. Won 19 : Lost I 1926-27. Won 19 : Lost 1 1927-28. Won IS Lost 4 1928-29. Won 14 Lost G 1929-30. Won 15 Lost 5 1930-31, Won 12 : Lost S 1931-32. Won 18 Lost 2 1932-33, Won 16 Lost 6 1933-34, Won 20 Lost 4 1934-35. Won 13 Lost 9 
19.35-36. AVon 22: Lost 2 ; Tied I 1936-37. Won 20: Lost 3 1937-38. Won 20; Lost 3 1938-39. Won 15 Lost 6 1939-40. Won 15; Lost 6 1940-41. Won 17: Lost 5 1941-42. Won 16: Lost 6 
•1942-43. Won 18: Lost 2 
—. 
327 96 

' Coach KeOKan died on Feb. 17, with a season record of 12 wins and 1 loss at that point. 
Post article of Dec. 12: "Jack [Madigan] has insisted on the normal processes of 
thinks Partner Hyland -the finest man I election resuming no later than the pres­
SfuUlufJii ^ ^ 
"HPHE foremost public-works firm in 
New York, perhaps in the country, Madigan and Hyland have won honors for design, such as the American Iron and Steel Institute Award in 1939 for the Bronx-Whitestone bridge, but their greatest distinction comes from the part they played in the vast building program with which Eobert Moses endowed New York City during the depression of the 1930s. The firm were engineers for the West Side Highway, the Bronx-White­stone, the Henry Hudson and the Jamai­ca Bay bridges, among other projects. , . ."—Satiirdai/ Evening Post, Dec. 12, 1942. 
The Madigan of that firm is the noted Michael John Madigan, the dynamic "one­man war effort" at present in Washing­ton as special assistant to the Under Secretary of War. 
RICHARD V. HYLAND, C.E. '18 

The Hyland is Richard V. Hyland, 
C.E.
 '18, of New York, brother of Justin 

E.
 Hyland, '22, and C. Joseph Hyland, '26. 


Dick was with the Pennsylavnia Rail­road for six years and in the general con­tracting business for three years before he joined with Mr. Madigan in 1928 to form the firm of Madigan and Hyland, "using a furnished room, at Rockville Centre, Long Island, and 'the back end of an automobile' for offices." The fii-m soon grew to occupy its own building in Long Island City. 
Says Author Forrest Davis, in the ever met' and sometimes wonders why the Church allowed him to escape the priesthood when it had him at Notre Dame. 'He would have made a wonderful archbishop,' says Jack." 
TiyiLLIAM J. MILROY, '13, of Chicago, 
is the new general attorney of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway System, having been appointed Jan. 2. 
—Sant.T Fe R:ilu=y Photo 
WILLIAM J. MILROY, LL.B . '13 

A graduate of St. Bede College, Peru, 111., as well as of the College of Law at Notre Dame, Mr. Milroy has been en­gaged in the practice of law in Illinois since 1915. He was associated in private practice with Arthur J. Hughes, '11, Chi­cago, when, in 1936, he joined the legal department of the Santa Fe. 
NEW ASSOCIATION OFFICERS 

Oificers of the Alumni Association have served a double term without in­tention. In the war emergency, and in the interests of the Centenary Fund, it was agreed that the normal change of officers a year ago would have worked both hardship and actual hai-m. At that time, the Alumni Board advanced the suggestion of shifting the Association to the calendar year and the program was continued under that objective. 
Increasing complications of the war and the Centenary made the change on Jan. 1 impracticable, and as a result, the Association approaches its normal elec­tion period after having imposed double duty upon its present board of directors. It seems obvious that progress has been made by such delay. 
However, President Harry F. Kelly ent, and has appointed two nominating 
'committees, consisting of past presidents of the Association, who are already well along on the preparation of a slate. 
One committee is headed by Bernard 
J. Voll, '17, South Bend, with Harry G. Hogan, '04, Fort Wayne, and Clement C. Mitchell, '02, Chicago, as members. 
The other committee is headed by John 
H. Neeson, '03, Philadelphia, with John 
P. Murphy, '12, Cleveland, and William 
E. Cotter, '13, New York City, as mem­bers. 
These committees bring to the nominat­inb job not only the experience of past administration of the Association, but also excellent records without exception of individual participation in alunmi af­fairs over a varying period of years. In addition, they represent membership in six of the leading Local Alumni Clubs. 
Constitutional complications have pre­vented the reports of both committees from being printed in this issue of the ALUMNUS. Ballots will be mailed in May. 
BONDED REUNIONS 

From the Treasui-y Department we hear that: 
Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau and Joseph B. Eastman, director of the Office of Defense Transportation, have joined in urging alumni of America's schools, colleges and universities to fol­low the lead of Cornell University, whose alumni have abandoned all class reunions for the duration and are devoting travel costs and other reunion expenses to pur­chase of War Bonds deeded to the uni­versity. The plan is described as a "Bonded Reunion." 
"It both relieves strain on our trans­portation facilities and assists our war financing," the Secretary said. "By fol­lowing Cornell's example thousands of schools and colleges could help bring vic­tory and at the same time strengthen their educational resources for after the war." 
And the Alumni Oflice, Notre Dame, Ind., agrees. 
MAILING BESTHICTED 
la conformity with a letter mailed in January to non-conliibuiors. this issue el the "Alumnus" will be sent only to those who fall within one or the other (or both) of these two classifications: (1) those who hare made a contribution to the Alumni Association and/or to the Centen­ary Fund since May. 1942; (2) those who are in military service. 

Grandsons of Late Warren A. Cartier, '87, Are Present Students 7" - f-^ ­
WARBEN A . CAKTIEK, '46 MORGAN E . CARTIER, JR., '46 WARREN RAPHAEL CARTIER, '13 
Two grandsons of one of the University's most notable alumni and benefactors, the late Warren A. Cartier, '87, donor of Cartier Field, are present students in the University. One grandson, Warren A. Cartier, '46, is the son of the late Warren Raphael Cartier, '13, of Ludington, Mich. The other grandson, Morgan E. Cartier, Jr., '46, is the son of Morgan E. Cartier, ex. '13, of Grand Rapids. Each of the boys is, therefore, a member of the third consecutive generation of his family at Notre Dame. 
Both of the boys are grand nephews of George E. Cartier, ex. '91, Tacoma, Wash., D. E. Cartier, '92, Ludington, the late William E. Cartier, ex. '93, also of Ludington, and of Charles E. Cartier who detoured to the University of Michigan for his col­lege education but who is now on the business staff of the University of Notre Dame. 
FACULTy TO SERVICE 
The war effort claimed two more members of Notre Dame's faculty as Stanley S. Sessler, head of the Depart­ment of Art, received a commission as first lieutenant in the Army Air Force, and -Bernard Waldman, assistant pro­fessor of physics, was appointed to do special research on a government project. 
Prof. Sessler left for Miami Beach, Fla., March 17 for basic training, and later will be sent to Randolph Field, Texas, for instruction as a reconnais­sance photogrrapher. Upon completion of training he will be attached to the Army Air Corps' Gulf Coast command, with the possibility of being: sent into the combat zone. 
Prof. Waldman came to the Univer­sity as a research assistant in 1938 aft­er receiving his doctor's degree from , New York University w^here he did spe­cial work in nuclear physics. He has recently been doing experimental work with the University's giant atom smash­
ing pressure electrostatic generator. 
The nature of the work Prof. Wald­man will do for the government could not be given out by the University, al­though it has been announced he will merely be on leave of absence. 
W.ARREN A. CARTIER, '87 
N.D. MIDSHIPMEN AT N.D. 
The following Notre Dame alumni are currently studying at the Midshipmen school on the campus: Charles M. Brown, '38, Indianapolis; James J. Cas­per, '40, Louisville; John T. Donnelly, '37, Mackinac Island, Mich.; Edward J. Hickey, '43, Grosse Pointe, Mich.; Ar­thur G. Kirby, '43, Great Neck, N. Y.; Edward F. Neagle, Jr., '43, Orange, N. J.; Dudley K. Smith, '43, Excelsior, Minn.;.and Robert C. Ronstadt, '43, Mil­ford, Conn. 
BROWN TO CHINA 
Frank N. M. Brown, head of the Aero­nautical Engineering Department at Notre Dame since 1935, has been named by the United States government to spend a year in China aiding the organi­zation of aeronautical education in Chin­ese universities. 
Twenty-seven specialists were request­ed by the Chinese government to help in the reorganization of certain curricula in Chinese schools, and Prof. Brown's unsolicited selection by the state depart­ment as one of these men is a high per­sonal tribute to his record and reflects special credit on the College of Engi­neering at Notre Dame. 
Prof. Brown's background of consult­ing en^neering links him with many prominent firms as well as with the United States government. A graduate of the University of Michigan, he has been a consultant for the Ford Motor Company, the Bendix Brake Company, the Stout Engineering Laboratories, the General Tire and Rubber Company, the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company and the Goodyear Zeppelin Corporation. In addition, he has been technical editor for the material division of the Army Air Corps and aeronautical engineer at­tached to the U.S.S. Macon. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 13 
ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
Paralleling some records of the classi­

cal quintets of Irish cage history and 
surpassing others, the Notre Dame bas­
ketball team this year drowned all hard­
wood marks established in the last dec­
ade. 
Shovelling up 1,071 points during a 

normal 20-game span the cagers glued 
a new scoring leaf in the record books. 
Scoring 18 victories and two losses the 
Irish percentage swelled to its greatest 
bounds since 1927. The 53.55 average 
per fray is also an all-time high. 
Spurred by a lobby full of competent men. Coach Keogan's shifting man-to­man defense spurned all opposition in early matches as Bob Faught, Frannie Curran, and Bob Rensberger collaborat­ed in a scoring foray. 
Wisconsin's offensive clicked early in 
the season but the Irish, with free-scor­
ing reserves, finally won in a thrilling 
overtime, 61-59. 
Skipping over such formidable oppo­sition as Purdue, Northwestern and Western Michigan, Notre Dame barged into a long-range Kentucky five on a dull evening and were slashed to defeat for the first of two times, 60-55. The Wildcats opened weakly but a battery of mid-court tosses, which the shallow Notre Dame defense couldn't muflle, brought a Kentucky victory. 
Following a triumphant eastern jaunt, during which the Blue and Gold cramped a N.Y.U. ensemble, 74-43, Coach George Keogan died suddenly. 
Saddened, after attending the funeral of their beloved coach, the Irish swiftly sought to punish Great Lakes but dropped their second contest of the sea­son in an overtime duel, 60-56. Eddie Riska, former Notre Dame captain, and George Sobek, another Irish court alum­nus, rallied in the added five-minute period to goal the points that won for the naval five. 
The Irish had a close call in Milwau­kee late in the season when a red-hot Marquette five held the Blue and Gold on even terms during the second half after overcoming a 15-point deficit in the first half, but with the score tied at 47­47 and five seconds to play in the final period, Capt. Charley Butler followed up Bob Faught's long shot to give the Irish victory. 
The stretching fingers of Tom Bren­nan netted a tie score in the second tus­sle with Tony Hinkel's Great Lakes sea­men and Frannie Curran and Capt. Charlie Butler scored a brace of baskets that marked up a 44-42 success for the Irish in another overtime. 
Rangy Bob Faught fielded 196 mark­ers to lead the scoring line for the sec­ond straight year. Frannie Curran, of the smudgy shirt, goaled 186 counters to come in second, while guard Bob Rensberger, scoring leader for most of the season but held to but three tallies in the finale with Detroit, banked in 185 points during the course of the cam­paign. 
Final national rankings placed Notre Dame second in the nation, close behind Illinois. 
The season's record: Notre Dame 56 Ball State 42 Notre Dame 53 Western Michi};an 35 Notre Dame 53 Northwestern 44 Notre Dame 61 Wisconsin 59 (overtime) Notre Dame 46 Purdue 43 Notre Dame 49 Northwestern 36 Notre Dame 55 Kentucky 60 Notre Dame 45 Butler 34 Notre Dame 50 DePaul 47 Notre Dame 50 Marquette 45 Notre Dame 45 Michigan State 34 Notre Dame 74 New York U. 43 • Notre Dame 55 Canisius 37 Notre Dame 56 
Great Lakes 60 (overtime) Notre Dame 64 
Butler 32 
Notre Dame 45 Michigan State 42 Notre Dame 69 
Wahash 42 
Notre Dame 49 
Marquette 47 
Notre Dame 44 Great Lakes 42 (overtime) Notre Dame 52 
Detroit 43 

TRACK One of the best balanced track squads in the history of the sport at Notre Dame breezed through the indoor sea­son without a blemish on its record. Ac­cording to some reliable commentators, the present track team is the strongest in the history of the University. 
The Irish opened the season with a smashing 94-10 triumph over hapless Navy Pier and in the only other dual meet on their schedule trounced Indiana, 76-28. Four meet records were broken, a gym record was broken and another tied, and a Notre Dame indoor record was tied as the squad completely outclassed the Hoosiers in the final home appear­ance of Coach Elvin R. Bandy's squad this season. 
Ollie Hunter faced the illustrious Greg Rice, Notre Dame alumnus, three times during the indoor season, each time keep­ing pace with Greg until his final spurt, only to finish from 15-35 yards behind him. Ollie had the distinction, however, of running the distance faster than Greg ever ran while an undergraduate, as he finished second to Rice in the New York 
A.C. g;ames. Ollie's time was 9:01.1. The Erie, Pa., dnderman made an­other gallant attempt to overhaul his rival in the star-stndded Chicago Relays, but Rice pulled away in the final two laps. Tony Maloney, Irish distance star, finished third in this event in Chicago Stadium, while the Notre Dame mile-relay team copped first place from Indi­ana and Purdue and the two-mile relay team faded in the final lap to finish third 
behind Michigan's powerful team and Illinois' crack squad. 
After sharing honors with Michigan in the Michigan State Relays on Feb. 13, Notre Dame took three titles in four weeks during March. The Irish scored 64'/i points in the Central Collegiate meet to leave Michigan State and West-em Michigan far behind on March 7; counted 6111/28 points in the IlHnois Tech Relays on March 13 to trounce Illi­nois and. Michigan's Big Ten champs; copped individual honors at the Chicago Relays on March 20; and brodght down the curtain on the indoor season with a smashing triumph over a large field in the Purdue Relays on March 27. At Pur­due, Capt. Jim Delaney established a new N.D. shot put record in winning at 53 ft. 4% in. And the four-mile relay team (Maloney, Leonard, Conforti, Hun­ter) established a new American indoor record at 17:31.1. 
The only outdoor meets of the season will be in the annual Drake Relays and Penn Relays on April 23-24. 
BASEBALL 
A shortened spring semester is the only worry Baseball Coach Jake Kline has. Over 100 aspirants, the largest turnout in Irish diamond history, ap­pealed to Jake for starting posts. Two sizeable cuts have pared the squad to a mere 35 members. Looking over the gathering Jake has to smilingly admit, despite schedule difliculties, that the out­look isn't bad. 
The Irish will open on Cartier Field on April 13 with Michigan. The tentative slate arranges two contests with Indi^ ana, a return affair at Ann Arbor,.and a home-and-home series with Western Michigan - and Michigan. State. iGames with Great .Lakes, Camp Grant, and Navy Pier may be played. 
In recent infield workouts Coach Kline has had Tom Sheehan, an outstanding backstop with plenty of competition buckled under him, behind the plate. John Hickey, Bob Kline, Tom Carlin, and Jim Carlin have been covering the inner lot while Angelo Bertelli, Dick Kisgen, Jim Thomas and Steve Pavella are patrolling the outer acres. Harold Smullen, only returning pitching letter­man; John Creevey, like Bertelli a foot­ball quarterback; Juday and Manyak are four possible starters among the pitchers. 
• TENNIS 
The Notre Dame tennis squad faces the new season confident of following closely in the steps of recent Irish ten­nis teams which have lost but one match in the past two seasons. As Coach Lang­ford surveys the prospects now round­ing into form, he gradually is losing the pessimism which imbued Ms comments during the fencing campaign. Principal among the causes for this change is the presence on the courts of Sophomore Jimmy Evert and Junior Bob Faught, destined to occupy the No. 1 and No. 2 posts on the team and to bear the brunt of a difficult schedule which will see all the matches compressed into the period between April 16 and May 1. 
Evert, former National Junior in­door champion in both singles and doubles, as well as outdoor champ in doubles, shows perhaps the gi-eatest promise of any player ever to repre­sent Notre Dame on the tennis coujis. Faught, star basketball center for two seasons, held down the No. 3 berth on last year's undefeated Irish tennis team while compiling the personal record of nine successive wins in singles and six out of seven in doubles. Backing up Evert and Faught will be John Troup in the third position, with the other places on the team presently in dispute between Artie Hoffman, Lyle Joyce, Ed Caparo, and various others, including some freshmen who are now eligible under the revised wartime code. 
The schedule: 

April 16 Wisconsin at Notre Dame April 17 DePauvr at BIoominRion April 17 Indiana at BloominRton April 22 Michigan at Ann Arbor April 24 Northwestern at Evanston April 29 Oiicago at Chicado April 30 Michigan State at Notre Dame May 1 Western Michisan at Notre Dame 
GOLF 
The doleful story Father George L. Holderith, C.S.C, golf coach, can tell is one of the saddest of current athletic sagas. Father Holderith has lost five varsity candidates to the various reserve divisions daring the past month. 
University links champion, Dick Whit­

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ing, left school at the bid of the Anny Air Corps. Jim Casey and Sam Ward were called into action by the Army while the summer champion, Dave Sulli­van, and runner-up, Joe Moore, were also tagged by the fljing cadets. 
Still left from last year's undefeated roster are Gene Fehlig, of the St. Louis golfing line and captain of this year's aggregation, and Frank Crowley, a com­petent niblick swinger with no pi-evious varsity experience. 
Tentative plans match the Irish with Big Ten and midwestem schools. • FENCING 
In a season characterized principally by the steady depletion of the squad by graduation and ento' into the armed forces, the Irish fencers wound up their 1942-43 season with a mark of two wins and four defeats, a highly distaste­fu situation to the swordsmen whose predecessors have been so uniformly successful. The results of this year's matches: 
Notre Dame IS Ohio State 14 
Notre Dame 19 Purdue . ™ 8 
Notre Dame 10 Chicago _. 17 
Notre Dame 13 MichiRan State U 
Notre Dame 8 Wisconsin . 19 
Notre Dame 12 Purdue .=> 
In the opinion of Coach Walter Lang­ford, there are several explanations for the apparently poor showing of his fencers. The principal cause was inex­perience. After losing five lettermen by gi-aduation last May, the coach saw the remaining three monogram winners depart by the diploma route in Decemb­eer. The call of the armed forces ac­counted for all other experienced men, so that in the last half of the season there was not a single member of the team who had appeared in competition prior to this year. The coach likewise laments openly the cancellation, due to transportation or other difficulties, of three definitely- scheduled matches, two with Marquette and one with Cincin­nati, in all of which the Irish would have been odds-on-favorites. 
• FOOTBALL 
Forty-eight varsity football candidates reported for the opening of spring drills on March 29. 
The clarion call to the Cartier lot brought out a group of uncertain boys, lads that aren't quite sure they will see the stain of grass on their jerseys this fall or the narrow strips of chalk be­neath their feet. But, with an alertness for condition and physical skill that will prove invaluable should they be called to active service, the candidates reported with an optimistic attitude and are working just as diligently as in pre­vious unshadowed years. 
Coach Leahy asked all students with high school or interhall experience to report for spring drills this year. 
A revised schedule follows: 

Sept. 25—Notre Dame at Pittsbursh 
Oct. 2—Georiria Tech nt Notre Dame Oct. 9—Notre Dame at Michi^n Oct. 16—Notre Dame at Wisconsin Oct. 23—Illinois at Notre Dame Oct. 3»—Notre Dame vs. Navy at Cleveland 
Nov. 6—Notre Dame vs. Army at New York 
Nov. 13—Notre Dame at Northwestern 
Nov. 20—Iowa Seahawks at Notre Dame 
Nov. 27—Notre Dame vs. Great Lakes at Chicaso 
RICE SETS TWO NEW RECORDS 

•It is the somewhat monotonous, but altogether agreeable, duty of the .A.LUM-Nus to record here that Joseph Gregory Rice, '39, one of the most famous of fa-
GREG RICE, '39 mous Notre Dame alumni, has broken a couple or more world records. In addi­tion, at the last count before the ALUM­NUS -went to press, Greg had won 64 straight races, which, if it isn't a world record of some sort, certainly ought to be. 
In Washington, D. C, on March 8 at the 10th annual Catholic University track meet, Greg broke his own record for the two and a half mile run when he covered the distance in 11 minutes, 23.3 seconds. His old mark was 11:32.6. 
In Cleveland on March 26 at the Knights of Columbus Games, Greg ran the two-mile in 8:51, to clip one-tenth of a second off the mark he established in Chicago on March 22,1941. 
And for weeks and weeks, whenever we turned the radio on at 9:45 on Sat­urday night, there was Greg running in somebody's Garden or back yard or some­thing. Urged on by Ted Husing and often by the Victory March, "Little Dyna­mite" (as Husing would have it) ran 'round and 'round and came out—always ahead. 
Notre Dame is proud of the modest "Barrel Chest" because in everything that he does and says he lives up su­premely to the highest teachings of the University. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 15 
« «
ALUMNI CLUBS 
CHICAGO 
William P. Kearney. *28, 519 Cedar St.. Winnetka, 111.. Pres.; Thomas S. McCabe. *22. 1448 Rascher Ave.. Sec. 

ChicaKO Notre Dame alumni turned out in un­precedented number to attend the annual election meetin;; on Jan. 26 in the dinins room of the ChicaKo Real Estate Board. 
Elected to office were: president, William P. Kearney; honorary president. Fred L. Steers; first vice-president. Richard Phelan; second vice-presi­dent. Joseph Henneberry; treasurer, Robert Irmi-Ker; secretary, Thomas S. McCabe; and to the Board were added GeorKe Witteried. James Lewis. James Cronin, John Dort^an, Joseph Shelley and Ed McLaoRhlin. 
Thomas C. Donovan, '24, presided very satis­factorily over what was termed the best annual meeting in years. Among those gracing the speak­ers* table were President-elect Kearney, Coach Ed Krause, Alumni Secretary Jim ArmstronK* Lt. William Cemey. USNR, Lt. John "Bott.s" Crow­ley. USNR, and Commander Washburne of the Glenview Naval Base. 
After election formalities were disposed of President Kearney spoke briefly of plans for the club in the year 1943. Then followed remarks from Jim ArmstronK, Ed Krause, Lts. Cemey and Crowley. Commander Washburne presented a most interesting talk on the training given Navy Air Cadets at Glenview and elsewhere, after which a question and answer session on this subject occupied a very informative half hour. 
The chairman of the affair was Richard L. "Chicago Title & Trust" Phelan. 
On Feb. 4, despite a cold and stormy evening, the club turned out in sizeable numbers to an autograph party for Father Arthur J. Hope. C.S.C.* at Holy Name Cathedral Library, where his new book "Notre Dame—100 Years** received an auspicious welcome. No doubt Father Hope had writer's cramps for several days, judging by the constant line of book purchasers awaiting autographs. The book has received numerous com­plimentary reviews in the local press. 
The Chicago club, like N.D. clubs everj'where. is hard hit by the war. Among former officers and wheelhorses of the organizations now in uniform are Jade Clark, Barry O'Keefe. Art Conrad, Ray HcGrath, Ray McCIory, Don FitZfcerald, Frank Ecan, Mark Mooney, Frank Downs, Ray Mulligan. John Cavanaash. Jim MnrtauKh. Don Wilkins. John Mohardt, John Nash. Tom Nash. Ed Mel­chione, Joe Dorcan. Gcorfce Conr}-, Herb Burt and a host of others ranging in rank from lieu­tenant commanders to buck privates and scattered from the heights of Chicago's Board of Trade Building to the wilds of New York, Alaska, Cuba, and Guadalcanal. Efforts to compile a complete list of them are proceeding slowly. 
Tom McCabe 

CLEVELAND 
Dr. Francis J. Gannon, *3t. 10420 S. High­land Ave., Garfield Hsishts. O., Pres.; Law­rence P. Kial. *31. 276 E. 272nd St^ Sec 

With Retreats at St. Stanislaus Retreat House on the week-ends beginning March 26 and April 2, the club, according to preliminary announce­ments, was all set to carry on one. of its long­standing traditions. Frank Cull and Karl Marter­steck were named co-chairmen of the Retreats. 
DELAWARE 
John J. Verbanc, '35, ISIO Delaware Ave., Wtlmincton. Pres.; Walter J. Cordes, '42, Sec. 

The following men have been elected to hold office for the year 1043-44: president, John J. Verbanc. *35; vice-president. Rnssel A. Kartz. *42: secretary-treasurer, Walter Cordes, *42. Board of Governors: Albert T. Mertes, *09; J. F. Froninv. •37. 
Dr. Russell A. Kurtz has been transferred from his research position in Jackson laboratory to a supervisory i>ost in the Semi Works of the du-Pont Organic Chemicals Division. 
We hear by the rumor road that Dr. Edward A. Bried has been transferred from his research po­sition at the Hercules Experiment Station to the Wilmington Offices of the Hercules Powder Co. 
The men of the Delaware Club send best wishes to Eddie Mahon of the University Chemistry De­partment and hope that his recovery from his accu dent is complete. Hardly a man in the club has not at some time or other come in for his share of Eddie's super service and friendly advice dished out in the stock room of the Chemistry Building. 
The club extends sincere sympathy to Dr. Art Baum on the death of his sister. John J. Vcrhanc 
DENVER 
John H. Humphreys. *32. 1423 Race St., Prea.; John F. Connell, *23. 2718 FtUmore St. Sec 

Highlighting early spring Notre Dame activities in Denver, the local lads proudly introduced the Denver club's first annual Pre-Lenten Ball on the evening of March 8. Credit for the outstanding success of the affair goes to the members and the committee headed by John Humphreys, Al Frantz. Charlie Haskell and Bart O'Hara. 
Through the splendid and generous coopera­tion of good N.D. friends, Mr. Cockrill and Mr. Fitzgerald of Denver's Denham Theatre, the recent Notre Dame Benefit Week netted over $1,000 for the Notre Dame Centenary Fund. 
John Connell 

We've had good news from all our Denver N.D.ers in service and the many other out-of-town N.D.ers who have been with us recently here in Denver. 
Lt. Jack Akolt is still making the boys at Den-ver's Lowry Field "camera-happy" as a photog­raphy instructor of the Army Air Forces. Last we heard from Don Alexander, ex. *29, he was keep­ing things humming at Peterson Field, near Col­orado Springs. Leon Archer, ex. *29. got a real break when he received his appointment to the Link Training School at Chanute Field. 111. Marine Lt. Tom Barry, *39, has a South Pacific island under his thumb as assistant provost mar­shal] : we've heard that "Boss" Barry has a Jap major locked up in his USMC clink there. Nice going! 
Lt. Chuck Cassidy. *38, is commanding officer of the 312 Dive Bombers and Lt. Tom Tlemey, ex. '40. flies with the 55th Bombardment Squad­ron ; both these N.D. roomies are at Key field. Miss. Lt. Geary Connor, is on active duty in 
the Pacific after shoving off from the Armed Guard Center on Treasure Island. San Frandiico. Recently, at San Diego, Geary ran into his claiis­mate. Lt. Joe Dempacy, now a staff officer at the San Diego Naval Base. Frank Conway. *27, is in officer's school at the Army Air Base in Fargo. N. Dak., and passes on the word that DftTC Hidey, *27. is working in Frisco's shimrards. By now. Ton Carriffan. *41, has completed his train­ing with the Quartermaster supply school at Fort Warren, Wyo., and is probably at officer's school at Camp Lee. Va. Major Henry DiUan. '26, is in the medical corps at Fort George Meade. Hd. Pat Dillon, ex. '29. from Castle Rock is on the high seas. U.S. Naval Resen'e Aviation Base at Los Alamitos. Calif., is still the address for Ensicn Joe psnn, from Rocky Ford. 1T.S. Marine Herk Fairall. ex. '39. received his commission from the Marine officer's school at Quantico. Va. 
Lt. "Dink" Grazier, ex. '39, is literally **xxp in the air* all the time as an Air Corps instructor with a bombing squadron at Columbia, S. C. Dink recently clinched a little deal over in Wash­ington, D. C , and plans to be married in May. Lt. Art Grccory. '36. is with the 417th Infantry at Port George Meade^ Hd. Ca^t Jerry Havan. is in pre-fiigfat school at San Antonio. Ca4et Harry Lawrence. *29, is ready for his commis­sion at Camp Lee. Va., with the Quartermaster Corps. OCS selection beat Ed MansficU. '34, to the gang-plank, and now Ed is at Fort Monmonth, 
N. J., in the Signal Carp officer's traininflr sehooL Some flay, Ed will tell you fellows how to set into a foot locker—and out of it again—at inspec­tion. It's a good yam, worth waitins for, as Bd tells it. Lt. J»e Niffi*. '39, from IVinidad, last checked in from Camp Ritdiie, Hd. Capt. INin Pfianm, *32. is with the St. Louis plant of the Chemical Warfare Service. Lt. FeKx "Bnd" Poj ­]ian«, '41. has been made battery commander of a coast artillery anti-aircraft unit somewhere in Central American jimglelands. Rasa Saba^ -33, was expecting a transfer from Stuttgart Air Base in Arkansas. Lt. Joe Ryan has been ad­vanced from a ffight commander to a squadron commander at Taft field, Calif. Sgt. Paal Suit* is doing special work as an instructor at Lowry Field. Denver. Art Sandnsky is expect­ing a call to Hilitary Intelligence officer's school from his present post with the Troop Carrier Command at Stout field. Indianapolis. Fre4 Skk. *39, is attached to the Headquarters Company at 
Fort Custer, Mich. Ray Smith. *31. SK3c, finished with flying colors at Toledo's Navy "nrainizig School and after ''washing up his whites" shoved off to an unknown port. En^gn Bob Stapp. '36. is training at Corpus Christi's Naval Air Station. On the subject of celestial navigation. Bob says: *'0*Gradty may be right about the universe being an example of perfect order directed by a divine plan, but it doesn't come out that way on my paper!" Cpl. Joe Stephen is tapering off <!) his training with daily 2&.mi]e bikes, obstacle course, and two-hour bend-overs at Camp Murphy, Fla. Jesse Satberiand is at OCS at Dayton, O.. Signal Depot. Ensign Ed W«rtaehadi, '40, stopped at the campus on his way to the Naval Station at Gulfport, Hiss. 
Le* Rohidonx, *41. from Fort Collins, was married recently in Milwaukee, Wis. Bab Dick, '29. enjoys his work with the aircrafters in Los Angeles. Georve Starback, ex. '34, ditto, with North American Aviation in Kansas City. 
Among the out-of-town N.Dusrs with us in Denver are: Lt. **BU1** Barton and Jim fisli­
(6 
er, '36, from Indianapolis; Charlie Callahan, ''iS, who is on medical furlough, at present, at his home in Lexinston, Mass. S/Spt. Bob Dolan, MO. is counting the days at Buckley Field until April 26 when he*s going to test the "Two-can-live-as­cheaply-as-one** theorj' with the little lady in K.C.­Mo. Ensign Paul Morrison, '40, of Lynchburg, Va.. is doing a fine job at Fitzsimmons General Hospi­tal : he*ll be ready to go full-steam-ahead before long. 
Recently with us. have been: Joe Burke, *2o. from Rockaway Beach. N. Y.. who is now at the Armj* Air Base at Santa Maria, Calif. Pvt. George Gipp, nephew and namesake of N.D.*s famous "Gipper,** who is now at the Bombardier School at Childress, Texas. 1st Lt. Maurie Leahy, *39. of Tiffin, O., now in the Personnel Office o£ Truax Field, Madison, Wis. 0/C Jim Dwycr from New York state now at OCS in Miami. Fla. Sgt. Paul Neville^ '42, of Massachusetts, now editor of the weekly pai>er at the Army Air Base at Richmond, Va. And, Francis Sanfilippo, ex. *44, now an avi­ation cadet at San Antonio. 
Gene Blish 

DETROIT 
John W. Brennan, '27, cio American Blower Corp., 632 Fisher BIdg., Pres.; Paul Foley, *37, Seen Inc. 34th Floor, Eaton Tower, Sec 

John Brennan, president, writes that the club has undertaken the publication of a monthly news letter for the benefit of Notre Dame men in service from the Detroit area. The committee will meet weekly or semi-monthly in John*s office to go over the material and establish telephone con­tacts with the families of the service men. 
Hanover Club (new) 
Ensign Qointen Sturm, USNR. *43, Pres.; Ensign Ed Roney, USNR, *43, Sec (Address for both until early May is N.T.S., Dart-month College, Hanover, N. H.) 

With 30 N.D. men literally on the steps of Dartmouth College, we decided to form a club, if for no other reason than to retain our mid-western accents and talk over old times at the Alma Mater. 
• Accordingly a meeting was held in the Hanover Inn on the first Saturda>- we were here. Ensign Quince Sturm, '43, was elected president. Lt. (j.g.) Bill Miller, '30, was elected corresponding secre­tary". *hile Ensiffn Ed Boney, '43, was made re­cording secretary. In order to give all those pres­ent executive positions. Ensigns J. J. Becker, Joe Callahan, Tom Cooney, Bill Dvorak, Tom Finu­canc, Gail Fitcfa, Jim Girard, Fred Gore, Louis Kurtz, Pete Moritz, Bill Stnkcr, all *43, and Tom Walker, '42, were all elected vice-presidents. 
Bliller said that he would contact the Boston Club for entertainment the week-end we all invade their territory. 
President Sturm promised a weekly meeting at.the same.pjace. 
This is believed to be the only Notre Dame alum­ni club composed of all officers and situated on the campus of another college. 
Ed Roney 

NEW yORK CITy 
George H. Rohrs. '33, 6107 Spencer Ave.. Riverdale, N. Y., Pres.; James M. Carroll, ex. '31, Hotel Capitol. 840 Eighth Ave., Sec 

- *Ve recently had an election of 1943 officers with the following results: George Rohrs. presi­dent (vice-president of Storewide Sales Inc) Jack Lavelle, vice-president (athletic director of C.Y.O.) Wilfred Kirk, treasurer (branch manager of National City Bank) James Carroll, secretary (general manager of Hotel Capitol). 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The Board of Governors now consists of: elected. Georgs Rohrs, James Carroll, Jack Lmvelle, Tim Toomey, Gregoo' Rice, W^arren Fogel, and Leo McLaughlin. Members named to the Board: Wil­fred Kirk. John Fogel. John Roadi, Francis Walther. 
PHILADELPHIA 
Harold E. Dnke. *30, 3040 Broad St., Pres.; Charles A. Conley, '33. 100 E. Tnmhill Ave.. South Ardmore, Upper Darby, Pa., Sec 

At the annual election held at the regular meet­ing of the club the following officers were elected for the year 1943-44 to take office immediately: president. Harold E. Duke, *30: vice-president. Walter R. Ridley, *31: treasurer, E. Bradley Bailey, *22; secretar>-, Charles A. Conley, *33. 
The following were elected to fill vacancies on the board of governors: Bob Duffy, AI D'Amora. Fred Frick. 
-•\ committee to determine the boy to be chosen for the scholarship from the club was picked by retiring president E. B. Bailey as follows: Hon. John H. Necson, chairman; Dan Young, Joseph 
J. Toland. M.D-, Rev. J. P. Lynch, C.S.C., Tom 
Byrne. Charlie Conley 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHWESTERN MASSACHUSETTS 
John J. McLauKhlin, '34, Mendon Rd.. Cum­berland Hill. R. L, Pres.; Russell L. Hunt, '39. 493 S. Main St., Woonsocket, R. L. Sec. 

At a meeting held recently in the Crown Hotel. Providence, the club voted to donate .a §200 war bond to .the University's centenary fund. In addi­tion to this, the group's quota of personal contri­butions was almost a certainty. 
President McLaughlin was a recent visitor on the campus and reports changes too numerous to mention. Mac says, *'Ya'd never recognize the place." 
Due to the war restrictions and gasoline ra­tioning the prospect of future meeting looks rather dark at present. The club would like to hear 
from any of the alumni who are members of the armed forces and stationed in this vicinity. In the event of a possible gathering we would like to have their names and addresses so they could be invited to attend. 
D«n Kecfe, '39. is now attending officers* can­didate school at Miami Beach. Fla. He should be receiving his gold bars any time now. 
RasK Hnnt, '39, is the newly appointed assistant secretary of the Chamber of Commerce in his home town. 
News from any of the club members in service is sought so that it may be relayed to friends through this column. 
Russell L. Hunt 

ROCHESTER 
Kenneth E. Power, ex. '28. 173 Hazclwood Ave., Pres.; William D. O'Toole, '39, 175 Hillside Ave.. Sec 

Johnny Odenbach, '36, and Bob, *41. are build­ing boats for the war effort,, and from all reports are doing all right. Hiey were awarded the Navy E a short time ago. Both John and Bob have daughters born recently. 
Jerry Farrell, *34, has been commissioned a second lieutenant in the Cavalry and is stationed in California according to the latest report. 
Frank Connelly, our past-president, was recent­ly commissioned a lieutenant in the Marines. Pete. I understand, is in Officers' Candidate School. 
Latest reports were that Leo Hofschneider, '36. is in Australia in the Medical Corps. 
Frank, *32. and Charley, '39. Norton, are in the Army Ordnance having been drafted together last October. Both were sent to Al>erdeen for their Basic'Training and later split up. Here are their addresses: Pf c Francis A. Norton. Jr.. Co. A. Hdqtrs. Bn. ORTC, Aberdeen FVoving Ground. Aberdeen. Md. Pvt. Charles M. Norton, 1st Pro­visional OVTC, Texarkana, Texas. Frank has a son. Francis III, born Nov. 22, 1942. As- for me. I am working as assistant chemist at Dclco Appliance Division here in Rochester. We also have a new son, our second, born Feb. 6. 1943. and named Edward Lucas Norton. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB GROUP AND IffiNTISTS GROUP At St. Paul's Retreat HMUC Pittshwish, Pa., Jan. 15-17 
Front Row, left to right: Fr. Linns Honahan,CP^ Retreat Master, J. A. Briky. Dr. E. A. Nicot­ra, H. A. Gallafher, J. F. McMahon, J. A. Bach, F.Wilsan, Dr. G. P. Boacelc, Dr. G. H. Foster, Fr. Romnald Walsh, C.P., Retreat Director. 
Second Row: J. F. Caspcro, J. A. BreMr, J. B. Kearian, J. T. Rooney. E. J. Coyne, Dr. J. J. Corrican, A. J. Deibold. Jr., E. J. Hayes, J. W. O'Brien, E. J. O'Connor, P. H. Locdding, R. C Cmk­ovic, W .J. Magarrall, Jr. 
Third Bow: A J. Vater, W. N. Steitx, Dr. C. A. Pctraclia. J. C. Sheedy, H. C. Boyle, B. J. Gallagher, Dr. C A. Flecker, M. Sheridan, H. S. Shccdy, Dr. R. J. Ginff, Dr. S. Laskowski, Dr. J. G. Huth. Not on picture, H. T. Harka. 
The Notre Da Al u 
There have been no activities sponsored by the 

local club since Christmas, but here's hoping 
there will be some affairs planned for the sum­
mer so that we can all get together again. 
John Norton 

ST. LOUIS 
Valda Wrmpe, ex. '23, Heil PadunK Co., 221S LsSalle, Pies.; Dr. Francis L. Kennedy, '25, BflMoari Theatre Bidff., Sec. 

Several years ago the St. Louis Notre Dame Club ofTered a trophy in memory of Knnte Rockne to the most outstanding high school football team in the St. Louis district. This year it was the pleasure of the club to present St. Louis Univer­sity High School this award. The presentation was made by Joseph McGlynn at the annual Father and Son Banquet sponsored by the St. Louis High Club. 
The Notre Dame Club was represented by many alumni including Tom "Kitty" Gorman, coach at Washington University; Paal, Vince, and Lou Fehliff. Valda Wrape, Jerry Arnold, Fred Mc­Neill, Vr, Vince Gorrilla, Dr. Bernard Crowley, Al Ravarino, John Corley. Dick Klohr and Tom Glynn. 
At a recent smoker, attended by alumni and students, we were entertained by Joe Shea and his unequalled dialect jokes and by Don Gilliland*s singing and miscellaneous facial expressions. By the way, it is now Private Don Gilliland. 
Our next big get-together will be Universal 
Notre Dame Night and we are looking forward 
to seeing more soldiers from Jefferson Barracks. 
Roland Dames 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
John McHahon, *28, 446 Longridce Drive, Mount Lebanon, Pa., Pres.; William H. Cin­der, Jr., 'SI, 504 Gettysbare St., Pittabarvh. Pa. 

Bob Kvatsak, '39. beamingly reports the birth of Barbara Jeanne, weight 7 lbs. 994 oz. (and dan*t forget the % oz.) on January 15. This is No. 2. As you'll recall his first was a boy. 
The annual Retreat was attended by 18 of the gang. We are certain that this comparatively small attendance does not reflect an indifference on the part of our members, many of whom found it im­possible to be there because of business trips, week-end meetings, etc. I personally feel that many of us who wore unable to attend were there in spirit and thereby benefited indirectly from the Retrsat. 
Lisut. Joseph C. Clark U.S.N.R., ex. 'S-l, re­plied with regrets to the smoker invitation which was somehow forwarded to him at 512 East Shemon, Ave.. Hutchinson, Kans., where he is now located. Says Dare McCaffrey, *34, is a lieu­tenant (j.g.), engineer in the supply corps at Hutchinson. (It's a U.S. Naval Reserve Aviation . Base according to his letterhead.) 
The morning paper contained a picture and the following write-up—^**George J. Sdiill ['27], super­intendent of the municipal garage, Pittsburgh Department of Public Safety, for the last six years, has been commissioned a captain in the Army Ordnance Department. He will be in the motor transport service, Aberdesn Proving Ground. Maryland." 
Jim Devlin, 'S3, is the proud father of James Dennis, born recently. (This is his first.) 
Henry Horka, *30, now with the F.B.I., dropped into town recently. Ed Boyle, '3S. has been with the FBI in Pittsburgh for the -past two years. Joe Sheekctski, '32. was recently transferred from Pittsburgh to Detroit; with Ed Fitch, '31. in Washington and George Fitch, *29, here and there —Notre Dame is well represented in the FBI. 
Bill Ginder 

yOUNGSTOWN 
Charles B. Cosfawa, Jr., '31. 18C6 Ave., Pres.; Clarence T. **Pete'* *40, 215 Granada Ave., Sec. 

Confined to bed for a week. Charlie got out pencil and pad and let go with lowing : 
"Jack Kane is a spscial U.S. district 
 Conmado  Sheehan, 
 Cnshwa  the fol­
 attorney 

and as such has had to spend considerable time in Toledo and Cleveland. He was appointed to succeed Paul Fleming, '26. who is new counsel for the alien property custodian in New York City. . . . John Buckley was again elected to rep­resent us in the Ohio legislature. BUI Danlevy, Pete Sheehan and numerous others are in the Army. Bud Bernard was an ensign in the Navy, the last I heard of him. 
"The bowling team continues, although Sheehan and Dunlevy are sorely missed. When they were here the rest of us didn't have to worry about the worst bowler! Doc Leonelli is still the only reas­onable facsimile of a bowler, but Steve Repasky is helping to hold the team together. Jack Kane is greatly improved over last year, which isn't necessarily saying much. John and Gabe Horan. Gerry Wolf and I go along for fun. At present we are tied for first place In one league and fourth in another." 
Charlie's company, the Commercial Shearing and Stamping Co.. is going full blast in war production and some months ago won the Army-Navy "E". 
ADDITIONAL MILITARY MEN^ 
(Inclutlinjr names received and classified up lo March 18). 
Abraham, Eli M., '34. Pvt.. U.S. Army Air Corps. TraininK Det., Flight C. Wilburton. Okla. Adamonis. Stanley C . '40. Ensii-n. U.S.N.R.. Naval TraininR Station, Princeton. N. J. Albert, Richard S. '40. Ensign. U.S.N.R., Naval 
Training Station. Princeton. N. J. Aleksis. Norbert A., '39. 2nd Lt.. U.S. Army. Altman, Arnold D.. '41. Ensign. U.S.N.R. Altman. Herman S.. '41. Ensicn. U.S.N.R. Atwater, Jolian G., '43. Ensicn. U.S.N.R. Andenon, Edward' N., '22. Major. U.S. Army 
Medical Corps. Veteran's Hospital. Clinton. Ta. 
* Names are listed here only once—when they are first received by the Alumni Office. Changes in military addresses are included in class news. 
Anderson. Norman I.. '39, S^Sgt.. U.S. Army Air Corps. Sq. 16. Advanced Glider School. A.A.F.­A.T.S., Stuttgart. Ark. 
Aubrey, Francis G., ex. '40. Corp.. V.S, Army, 
A.P.O. 786. cjo- Postmaster. New York City. 
Aubrey. Francis Y., '40, Pvt.. U.S. Army. Co. G. R.R.C.. Fort Devens. Mass. 
Bader, Clarence W., '19. Lt.Com.. U.S.N.R., Nor­folk. Va. 
Baidinger, Edward J., '40. Pvt.. U.S. Army, Group 4, Regulating S.T.A., Camp Hathaway, Van­couver. Wash. 
Ball, Gerald J., '31. (Lt. (j.g.), U.S.N.1L, c/o 
•Postofficc, San Diego, Calif. 
Besley, John H., '34. U.S. Army Air Corps, Hdqs. Siidn.. 611 T.S.S. (Sp.). Atlantic City. N. J. 
Beinar. JMeph E,. '39, 2nd Lt, U.S. Marine Corps, Hq. Sqdn., M.CJLS., Quantico, Va. Belanscr. Gms r O., '38, Corp., U.S. Army, Hdqs., 603rd CJV. (A-A.), Burbank, CaUf. Bckkn. Pari R, Jr,, '32, Lt. U.S. Army, 36th St. Airport, Officers Hdqs., Miami, Fla. Benedict. Lawrence IJ„ '39, Ensign. U.S.N.K., cto Fleet Postofficc, New York City. 
Bercik. Jaliu W.. '40, Capt., U.S.. Marine Corps, Unit 205, c/o Fleet Postmaster. San Francisco. Calif. 
Bereal—, Hercries. '42. In Service. Bercan. WilliaH A., '42, Ensign. U.SJ{.R., Naval Training Station, Princeton, N. J. Bernard. Kalph L.. '37. Ensign. U.S. Coast Guard Reserve. BcriT. Jaaes F., &•:. '38, Major, U.S. Army Air Corps. 
Bina. Frederick J., ex. '44, Pvt., U.S. Army Air Corps, 379th Base Hq., & A.B. Sqdn., Miami Beach, Fla. 
Birder. JaOMi P.. ex. '44, Ist Lt., U.S. Army, 
A.F.O. 35, Co. G, 137th Inf., San Luis Obispo, 
Calif. Bishop, John J., e.\. '44, U.S. Naval Air Corps. Bitlner. JoKph A., '35, Sgt., U.S. .^rmy Signal 
Corp.-!, A.P.O. 787, c/o Postmaster. New York City. Blackmore, Geone H., '43. Pvt.. U.S. Army, FJ{.­T.C.. Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. 
Blake. WiUia'm C , ex. '45. Corp., U.S. Amy, Army Radio School. 2205 Foman St, Omaha, Ncbr. 
BUsard, Thomaa A., ex. '33. U.S. Army Engineers. Fort Belvoir, Va. Bodkin. Leonard D., ex. '44. 2nd Lt.. U.S. Army. 
A.P.O. 875. c/o Postmaster, New York City. BoUvert. Harold V., '40, Lt. (j.g.), U.S.N.R.. Naval Air Station. Key West. Fla. Bontempo. Salratore A., '32. Capt.. U.S. Army Air Corps, Air Service Command. Dayton, Oo. Borda. John N.. '42. Ensign. U.S.N.R.. Naval Training Station. Princeton, N. J. Bracke, Camiel F., '42, Ensign. U.S.N.R.. Naval Training Station, Princeton, N. J. 
Bradley. Norman D., '30, Ist Lt. V.S. Marine Corps. Marine Barracks. Recruit I?epot. Parris Island. S. C. 
Brcnnan, J. Robert. '40, U.S. Army Air Corps. Fort Hayes, Columbus, O. Brick. Daniel J - '34, Lt . U.S.N.R.. Naval Thiin­ing Station. Great Lakes. 111. 
Bridenstine, C.S.C., Rev. Francis D„ '33, Chap­lain. 7th Motor Div.. Fort San Luis Obispo. Calif. 
Bnck, James E.. '43. U.S. Marine Corps Reserve. Brown, Charles M., '38, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. Brown. John F., '42. S2C. U.S.N.R.. Naval Train­
ing Station (SK). Bloomington. Ind. Brozo, Loais F., ex. '42, U.S. Naval Air 0)rps. Bratz, James C . '42, In service. Burby, Leo J., '42, Ensign.U.S.N.R. Baike. Anmst T., '43. U.S. Army. Camp Roberts, 
Calif. 
Barns, Louis J., ex. '44, Pvt.. U.S. Army. Btry. B, 14th Bn.. A.A. Tng.. 2nd Platoon, Fort Eustis, Va. 
Barns. Rabe.rt M.. '42, Pvt, U.S. Army. 631 
T.S.S.. Flight C. Barracks 2. Gulfport. Miss. Bascheiaeyer Charles H., '29, In service. Basckemeyer. William C . e o ';'.4. Capt.. Stition 
Hospital, Brooks Field, Te.xas. 
Byrne. Edward B.. e-x. '42. Pvt., U.S. Marine Corps, Platcxm 68, Recruit Depot, Marine Bar­racks, Parris Island. S. C. 
CaUn. James F.. '43, U.S. Army. Camp Roberts. Calif. CaUweli. Edwin &. '35. Lt., U.S.N.R., Naval 
Training School, Memphis,'Tenn. Callaikan. Jakn A.. '39. Sgt, U.S. Army. Cannon. Riduud G.. '32, Pfc, U.S. Army. Reg. 
Hq. Co.. 31Ith Inf.. A.P.O. 78. Camp Butner, 
N. C. 
Carrall, WiUimm VL. '43. Pvt. U.S. Army. Co. C, 1st Platoon. 87tll Inf. Trng. Bn., Camp Roberts. Calif. 
Casey. Joseph E., MI, Candidate. U.S. Army. Co. D, O.C.S. I, Army Adm. Schools, School 5, Far-SO, N. Dale Casper, James J., MO. U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notr« Dame, Ind. 

. Cheney, Joseph M., c.\. '44. Pvt., U.S. Army. Camp Upton, L.!., N. Y. Chleheck, Andrew- J., 'ii. Lt., U.S. Marine Corps. Co. I, 18th R.O.C., M.C.S., Marine Barracks, Quantico, Va. Chrisman, Frank S., e.\. '29, A.S., U.S.N.R.. Co. 201, Naval IVaining Station. Great Lakes. III. Christman, Frederick G., '43, U.S. Army, Fort Hayes, Columbus, O. Charchman, Joseph H., '33, Ensit-n, U.S.N.R.. Naval Training Station. Princeton, N. J. CUncy, James F., e.\. '21, (M.D.) Major, U.S. Army. 121 Station Hospital. Camp Barkeley. Texas. Clark. Jehn J., '43. U.S. Army, A.T. Co.. 321st Inf., A.P.O. 81. Camp Ruckner, Ala. Clifford. Jeremiah J., '38. F\t., U.S. Army Air Corps. A.A.F.S.A.T., 1165 S.S., Tent City 1, Street C. 313-5, Orlando, Fla. Cliffoid, John H., '42, Lt.. In service. Cluver, Henrj- J., '33, Capt., U.S. Army Signal Corps, 178th Signal Repair Co., Camp Shelby. Miss. Cody, John J., ex. '42, Lt„ In ser\-ice. Colgan, Edward G., ex. '40. Lt.. (j.g.). U.S.N.R.. S.ldn. 2. Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Fla. Collins, James K., '32, Lt,, U.S.N.R., Amphibious Training Base. Little Creek. Va. Comerford, nomas P., '42, Ensign. U.S.N.R., Navy 222. cjo Fleet PostofBce. New York City. Conaty, Francis H., '43, A.S., U.S.N.R., Co. 48­
43. Camp Ward. Farragut. Idaho. 
Cbnmey, James J., '28. Lt (i.e.). U.S.N.R.. Cuy­ler Hall. Naval Training Station, Princeton. 
N. J. Conner, Joseph G., '36, Ensign, U.S.N.R. Connolb-. James S., ex. '43, 2nd Lt., U.S. Army 
Air Corps. Conrad, Arthur L., '35, In ser\'ice. Cooney, Charles E., '43, Ensign, U.S.N.R., 89 Sage 
Hall. Naval Training Station. Cornell Univer­sity. Ithaca, N. Y. Cotter, Richard J., ex. '43, A.C., U.S. Army Air Corps. Coosinean, Edward F., Jr., '41, Lt.. U.S. Army, 
B.O.Q. BIdg. R. 138, Fort Lawton, Seattle, Wash. Crimmins, Charies V., '41, Lt., U.S. Army Air 
Corps Advanced Flying School, Seymour. Ind. Croft, Robert J., e-x. '45, Y6A.S., U.S.N.R.. BtO". 
B. Co. 199. Great Lakes, 111. Crosby, Ihomas F., ex. '33, Pfc, U.S. Army. Co. 
D, Rec. Bn., Fort Hayes, Columbus, O. Craice Timothy J„ '38, Lt, U.S. Army Air Corps. Calkin, Anthony J„ '32, Tech. Corp.. U.S. Army, 
A.P.O. 813, cto Postmaster, New York City. Cammlnm, Rocer S., '43, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School. 609 Tower Hall, Chicago. III. 
Cartin, Robert J„ '39, Prt.. U.S. Army. S7th Sig­nal Co., A.P.O. 448, Camp McClain. Miss. 
Daliymple. David W., '34, P\-t.. U.S. Army, 1st Receiving Co., IB Barracks. 1222 R.C.. Camp Upton. L.I.. N. Y. 
Danbom. Laarence E., '37. Ensign. U.S.N.R.. 
U.S. Naval Pre-Flight School, Athens, Ga. 
DaPra. Laino L., '39, S/Sgt. U.S. Army Air Corps. 337th Bomb Sqdn., 96th Bomb Group, Army Air Base, Pyote. Texas. 
Deser. Charles H.. '42, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Naval Supply Corps School, Gallatin Hall C-23. Har­vard University. Soldiers Field, Boston. Mass. 
DeLla. Emilio F., '35, Lt, M.C., Air Force Base. Dead. Walter J., '42, Platoon 1046, Recruit Depot. Marine Barracks. Parris Island.S. C. DeSimon, Anthony E., '41, C.A.T.C. 1. A.A.F.T.­
T.C.. Room 1868, Entrance L, Stillman Hall, 
New Haven, Conn. DeWald, Robert F., '30, In service. Dillon, Patrick H., ex. '28, c/o Fleet PostoflSce, 
San Francisco, Calif. 
Diver, James E., '42, U.S. Army. Hdqs. Hdq. Btrj-.. 104 Div. Art.. A.P.O. 104. Camp Adair, Ore. 
Dolan, Michael J., '41, U.S. Army. Dolan, William J., '38, U.S. Army. Donahue, Patrick W.. '27. Lt. U.S.N.R. Donnelly, John T., '42, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's 
School, Notre Dame, Ind. Donovan, John P., '43, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School. 709 Tower Hall. Chicago. III. Donovan, Thomas J., '30, 1st Lt, H.C., Orlando Air Base, Station Hospital, Orlando, Fla. Doran, Donnid H., ex. '45. AjC, U.S. Army Air Corps. 
Dowling, Francis W., '41, Sgt, U.S. Army Hqs. Det.. 61h W.M. Tng. Regt., Q.R.T.C., Camp Lee. Va. 
Dull.v. Thomas J.. '40, 2nd Lt. U.S. Marine Corps. 21st R.O.C., C Barracks, Quantico, Va. 
Duke, Norman E., '34, L t (j.g.), U.S.N.R., 2 Top­lifT Hall, Naval Training Station, Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H. 
DunIa%T, Edward J., "42. Ensign. U.S.N.R. 
Dunn, Louis J., '38, SySgt., U.S. Army, Officers Candidate School, Army Administration. Grin­nell. Iowa. 
Dunne, Gerald W., '43, Pvt.. U.S. Marine Corps, Platoon 1109. Recruit Depot Parris Island, S. C. Durbin, Clarence A., '31. L t (j.g.). U.S.N.R., Na\Y 8145. c/o Postmaster, San Francisco. Calif. Dutrieux, Charles P., ex. '18, Army Finance 
School, Duke University, Durham, N. C. 
Ebner. Francis G., *43. U.S. Army, Camp Roberts, 
Calif. Ellis, John Duke, '40, U.S. Na\'y. EmmeneKKcr, Edward J., '42, Ensign, U.S.N.R., 
Room 231. Naval Air Station, Miami, Fla. English, John P., '35, U.S. Navy, cyo Postoffice. San Franci.-^co, Calif. Ennis, John J., '39, Lt, U.S. Army, Hdqs. 29th . Inf., Fort Benning, Ga. Ensner, Stephen A., '43 U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, 606 Tower Hall, Chicago, III. Ernst, Francis R., '32, U.S. Army. 
Falter, Paul E., '28. U.S. Army, Co. A, 64 QM. 
Bn., Camp Swift, Texas. Farley, Eocene P., e.\-. '42, Ensign. U.S.N.R. Farrell, Ensene R., '41, Corp., U.S. Army, Co. C, 
1st Signal Trng. Regt, Fort Monmouth, N. J. 
Farwell, Joseph J., '43, Pvt, U.S. Army Air Corps, 1143 T.S.S., Flight 360, B.T.C. 9, Miami Beach, Fla. 
Fayette, James J., '42, U.S. Navy. Feene}-, Gerard, '43, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, 
1031 Tower Hall, Chicago, HL Fero% James J., '41, U.S. Army, Fort Kno.x, Ky. Ferrj-, James P., '42, Pfc, U.S. Army, Bks. 306, 
1st Frov. Sqdn., Daniel Field, Augusta. Ga. Fink, AnrUins J., ex. '28, Naval Air Station, Nor­folk, Va. 
Finneran, John C, '40, Pvt, U.S. Marine Cbrps, Platoon 114, Recruit Depot Marine Barracks, Parris Island, S. C. 
Finneran, Robert F., '42, AjC. U.S. Army Air Corps, B.T.C. 1, Sqdn. C. Boca Raton Clubs, Boca Raton, Fla. 
Fisher. Charies C , ex. '41, Lt . U.S. Army, Co. I, 6th QM. Regt, Camp Lee, Va. Fisher, Clarkson, S., .ex. '45, In service. 
Fitzgerald, Thomas M., '38, Ensign, U.S.N.R, Naval Training School, Fort Schuyler, The Bronx, New York. 
Fitzharris, Thomas J., Jr., '42, 2nd Lt, U.S.M.C. Fitzmanrice, Edward J., '34, Ensign, U.SJI.R., BIdg. 611, A.P.O., Naval Air Station, Jackson­ville. Fla. 
Flynn, GeiaM J., '40. Ensign. U.S.N.R.. U.S. Naval Training Station. Princeton. N. J. FonUna. Leo A., ex. '43, Pvt, U.S. Army, I91st 
Q.M.
 Aviation. A.P.O. 520. New York City. Faakey. James M.. e.x. '37, 1st Lt, U.S. Army. Co. 

B.
 27th Eng. Regt.. Camp Breckenridge, Ky. Foaa. AlbeH E., '25. Pvt.. U.S. Army. 10th Ferry­ing Sq.. Boiling Field. D. C. Ford, WilUam E., '43. U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, 311 Tower Hall, Chicago, III. Foster, William M„ '42. AyC. U.S. Army Air Corps. Sqdn. 109. Section 9. A.A.F.C.C.S., A.A.­C.C.. San Antonio. Texas. 


Fox, Richard E., ex. '41. AyC, U.S. Army Air Corps, A.A.F.C.C., S<idn. E, Group 2. N.tshville, Tenn. 
Francies, John T., '41. Pvt, U.S. Army, Hdqs. Co, Station, Camp NYPE, Fort Dix, N. J. Frericks, Theodore P., '39. U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Chicago. 111. 
Gainer. Charles D., '41, U.S. Army, Selective Ser­vice Hdqs.. 711 N. Pennsylvania St., Indianap­olis. Ind. 
Gallacher, Ihomas F., '35, In service Gartland. Arthur J., ex. '40, Ensign. U.S.N.R. Gavin, Joseph J., *31, In service. Gilhwly. John F., '35, Pvt. U.S. Army Air Conis. 
A.P.O. 953, cyo Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. Gilmoar. John V., '39, Columbus Army Flying School, Columbus, Miss. Girdami. Anthony G., '43, U.S. Army. Camp Roberts, Calif. Godfrey. James E.. '43, U.S. Army, Camp Roberts. Calif. Godfrey. Michael F., '43, U.S. Army, Camp Rob­
erts, Calif. Gonyo, Georce B., e.x. '42. U.S. Navy. Goocan, James H., '27, Lt, U.S.N.R. Grace. Michael P., '41. U.S. Army Signal Corps. Gresarr. Whitney I.. Jr.. "40. 2nd Lt. U.S. Army 
Air Corps, A.P.O. 10693, cyo Postmaster. New York City. Griffin, Jchn A., ex. '42, Sk.lC, U.S. Coast Guard Training Station, Bks. 4. Grand H.iven, Mich. Groebner. Jerome J.. *43. In service. 
Haa*. Joseph F.. e.x. '43. Corp.. U.S. Army. 336th B.G., 479th B. Sqdn., Avon Park Bombing Range, Avon Park, Fla. 
Hacfcett. Edward F.. '42.. Ensign. U.S.N.R. 
Hackner. James R.. '42. U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, 829 Johnston Hall, Columbia University, New York City. 
Hackner, John W., '37, 2nd Lt. U.S.M.C.R.. Quantico. Va. Haffner, Herman, ex. '23, (M.D.) Capt, U.S. Army, Station Hospital, Camp Campbell, Ky. 
Haller. William G„ ex. '42, AyC, U.S. Army Air Force, A.A.F. Pre-Flight School. Maxwell Field. Ala. 
Halpin, DonaM F., '26, Pvt., U.S. Army, Co. C. I6th Q.H.T.R., BIdg. 340, Platoon 4, Fort Fran­cis E. Warren, Wyo. 
Halpin. William F.. '40, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Naval Hospital, Portsmouth, Va. Hartnett, Dr. William G., ex. '25, Veterans Admin­istration Facility, Montgomery, Ala. Harder. Joseph F., '40, 2nd Lt, U.S.M.C.R.. Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla. Haach. Blchard E., '29, Lt, A.U.S., 1031 S. 
Broadway, Room 403, Los Angeles, Calif. Hayca. Jetome &. '42, In service. HeffenuB. Marion J., '28, In service. Hcimaaa. Joseph V., '21, Capt, U.S. Army. HcBcbiT. Jaaeph A, Jr.. ex. '38, In service. Henniasfdd. Francis J., '33. U.S. Navy, Naval 
Training Station, Great Lakes, III. Herlihy. TIMWU L.. ex. '43, 2nd Lt; U.S. Army Air Corps, Ellington Field, Texas. Hes«*, Jaaeph F„ ex. '45. lOOSid T.S.S., 720 Mich­igan Ave., Room 1630A, Chicago, III. Hesscr. Paal H., ex. '40, R.T.2C, U.S.N.R., Co. 1883, Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, 111. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 19 
Hewson, Gcorfe F., ex. '30, V.S. 22, Naval Air Station, Norfolk, Va. flicker. Edward J., '43, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's 
School, Notre Dame, Ind. flicker, William M., '42, U.S. Coast Guard. fliccins, Charles F., ex. '37, Ensign, U.S.Nje. Hildebrandt. Haco J., '39, S/Sgt., U.S. Army, Fi­
nance Office, Chico Army Flying School, Chico, Calif. flillebrand. Joseph R., '43, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, 507 Tower Hall. Chicago, 111. Hiss. Bernard F.. '40, U.S. Army, 1133 T.S.S. (Sp.), Basic Training Center, A.A.F.T.T.C., Mi­ami Beach, Fla. Hoffmann. Arthur F.. '37, In ser\*ice. Hocan, Donald J., '42, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Naval Section Base, Port Arthur, Texas. HoUenhorst. Georce D., '42, Sgt., U.S. Army, Det. Induction Station. Fort Snelling, Minn. Honerkamp. Francis W., '34, Lt. (j.g.). Junior B.O.Q., S-3, Naval Air Station, Norfolk, Va. 
Hoover. Frederick N.. '43, Midshipmen, U.S.N.R., Supply Corps, Chase Hall B-24. Soldiers Field Station, Boston, Mass. 
Horzan,Thomas G., '41, 42nd Fighter Sqdn., 54th Fighter Group, Harding Field, La. Horn, William B., '42, Corp., U.S. Army, Army Finance Office. Drew Field. Tampa, Fla. Hosinski, Edward J., '31, U.S. Maritime Training Station, Sheepshead Bay, Section 235, Brooklyn, 
N. Y. Howard, Allen A., ex. '31, In service. Howard. John J.. '28, Pvt., U.S. Army, 4th Re­
ceiving Co., Bks. X, Camp Upton. N. Y. Hober. Verne W., '32. Lt. (j.g.), U.S.N.R. Naval Training Station, Princeton, N. J. 
Hnches, Charles B., '36, A/S, U.S.N.R., Co. 265. Bks. 265, Naval Training Station, Bainbridge, Md. 
Hose Charles R., ex. '42, SIC, U.S.N.R., V6-Co. 203, Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, 111. 
luen. Francis J.. Jr., '32, Capt.. U.S. Army, Q.M. Corps, Kansas City Quartermaster Depot, Chief. Fiscal Branch Administrative Division, Indepen­dence & Hardesty Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 
Jacqaes, C. Edward, '41, Navy 8200, cjo Fleet Postoffice, San Francisco, Calif. Jaeser. John G.. '33, Amphibious Training Base. Little Creek, Va. Johnson, Georse W., '38, AjC. U.S. Army .Air Corps. 
Jordan, Cecil E., '40, AjC. U.S.N.R., Naval Air Station, Barracks 110-186, Minneapolis, Minn. JalUn, John D., '40, Pvt., U.S: Army, F.A.R.T.C.. 
Fort Sill, Okla. 
Kairis. Albert C , ex. '44, AyC, U.S. Army Air Corps, Pre-Flight, Maxwell Field, AI.i. Kane. Charles H., '43, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, 407 Tower Hall. Chicago. III. Kane. Henry M., '43, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, 608 Tower Hall, Chicago, III. Kane, John Worden, '26. (M.D.) Major, A.P.O. 647, c/o Ftostmaster, New York City. Kasbers. Robert H., '43, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Abbott Hall, Chicago, III. Kashmer. Paul J., '43, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's 
School, 603 Tower Hall. Chicago, 111. Kastens, Oscar H.. '41, In service. Keefe. Harry J., '40, Ensign, U.S.N.R. Keenan. John E., '42, Corp., U.S. Army, Hq. Co., 
745th Tank Bn., Camp Bowie, Texas. Kelly. Edward J., '41, Yeoman, U.S.N.R., 242 
Senator Placed Cincinnati, O. Kelly. James P., '40, 2nd Lt., In service. Kelly, John E., '37, Corp.. U.S. Army, Officers 
Candidate School, Class 55, Fort Sill, Okla. Kelly, RiAard B.. '40, 2nd Lt., n.9.M.C., Unit 1245, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. Kenedy, Thomas B., '42, A.S.. U.S.N.R., U.S.­Naval Training Station. Great Lakes, 111. Kenner. James E.. '40, In service. 
Keusch. Joseph F.. '43, Pvt., U.S. Army, Co. D, 1610 R.R.C. T-138 Camp Grant, III. 
Killicrew, Jeremiah J., '43, Midshipmen, U.SJ;.R, Chase Hall B-33, Harvard University, Soldiers Field Station. Boston. Mass. 
Kilmnrrr, Edward J., '35, 403 Base Hii. & A.B. S<|., Yuma Air Base, Yuma, Ariz. Kirby. Arthur G., '43, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame. Ind. 
KUzeli, Paul J., '38, C-Sp(A), U.S.N.R., PJ. School. Sqdn. II, Naval Training Station, Nor­folk. Vn. 
Kovatcfa, John G., '42, Pvt., U.SJf.C, Platoon 1107, Recruit Depot, Marine Barracks, Parris Island, S. C. 
Kralovec Charles V.. '43. U.S.N.R., Midshipmen's School, Abbott Hall, Chicago, III. Kramer, John F., '32, Lt. (j.g.), U.SJJ.R.. Naval Training Station, F'rinceton, N. J. Kraus, Bernard J., '33. Pvt., U.S. Army, 5th 
A.A. (A.W.). Camp Hulen, Te-xas. Krawiec, Walter F., "43, U.S. Marine Corps, Par­ris Island. S. C. 
Krembs, David, "28. Pvt., U.S. Army, 30th Div., Co. I. 120th Inf.. A.P.O. 30. Camp Blinding, Fla. 
Kubiak, Joseph F., '34, U.S. Army, 505 Tmg. Group. 19th S<idn., B.T.C.. Kearns, Utah. Kurtz. Loui.< F., '43. Ensign. U.S.N.R., Naval Training School. Dartmouth College. Hanover, 
N. H. 
Lambert, Richard P., '32. Lt. (j.g.), U.S.N.R., Naval Training Station, Princeton, N. J. Lambert, Walter C , '43, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's 
School, 402 Tower Hall, Chicago, III. Lane, Joseph M., '43, U.S. Navy. Larkin, Edward J., ex. '41, Ensign. U.S.N.R., 
Naval Air Station, Corpus Christi, Texas. Laughlin, Daniel F., '40, U.S. Army. Larin, Justin P., e-x. '38. Ensign, U.S.N.R., Naval 
Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla. Law, Robert J., '32. S/Sgt., U.S. Army. Officer Candidate School, Camp Davis, S. C. 
Leary, Matthew G., Jr., ex. '36, Pvt.. U.S. .'Vrmy, E.xtension Hospital, Ward B-o, Chanute Ileld. III. 
Leibin Robert A., '40. T^Sgt., U.S. Army, Tmg. Bn. C, 302 B.B. Bn., Camp Tyson, Tenn., Lebing. James W., '42, T/Cpl.. D.E.M.L. —1206 S.C.U., Fort Niagara, N. Y. 
LeMense, Robert D., '43. Pvt.. U.S. Army, Co. C. 89th Inf. Trng. Bn., 2nd Platoon, Camp Roberts, Calif. 
Litizzette, Sunley V., '42, In service. Lively, John J., "35, Lt., U.S. Army, Camp Ed­
wards. Mass. Lukats, Nicholas P., '34. Lt. (j.g.), U.S.N.R. Lynch, Erward J.. '35, Pvt., U.S. Army, 752nd 
Eng. Parts Supply Co., Camp Claiborne, La. Lynch, George J., '35, In ser^-ice. 
Macdonald, DougUs J., '42. Pvt., U.S.M.C.. Pla­toon 137, R.D., M.C.B., San Diego, Calif. 
Maggi. Edgar B., '28. Sgt., U.S. Army, A.P.O. 81, Finance Office, 81st Div., Camp Ricker, Ala. Magness. Charles D., Jr.. ex. '46, U.S. Army Air 
Corps, St. Petersburg, Fla. Mahoney, John, '22, Air Corps Replacement Train­ing Center, Hotel Arlington, N. J. Majewski. Lawrence C, '41, 2nd Lt., U.S. Army Signal Corps. Mallek. Anthony J.. '41, FVt., U.S. Army, .\.P.O. 939, c/o Postmaster, Seattle, Wash. Maloney, John E., '37, Lt. (j.g.), U.S.N.R., Local Defense Force School, Boston, Mass. 
Marshall. William A. '42, Ensign, U.R.N.R., Naval Training School, Twelfth Naval District, Treas­ure Island, Calif. 
. Martin, FrancU J., '33, En.sign, U.SJJ.R., Naval Training School. Cornell University, Ithaca, 
N. Y. Martin. Roland A.. '39. In service. 
Masenich. Jar. '26, Lt., U.S.N.R.. Naval Air SU­tion. Quonset Point, R. I. 
Mastcnni. Elwaid P.. ex. '33, U.S. Navy. Hadwr. Jaacfh R, '40, Corp., U.S. Amy. Co. M. 1229 R.C., Fort Dix. N. J. KattUadr. Bkkaid K.. ex. '39, 2nd Lt., U.S. Army Air Force, Blaekland, Te-xas. McAAuu, Fnak J„ Jr, '31, Lt. (j.K.), n.SJIJL. Amphibious Forces, N.O.B., Norfolk, Va. MeAdaas. Hcuy J.. '25, Lt. (j.g.), V.SXJL, 
Naval IVaining Station. Princeton, N. J. McCaVertr. Jaaca K.. '43, U.S. Navy. McCawhey. Miduel J.. '41. U.SJI.R.. V-7. McCauher, WiOiaa T., '43, U.S.° Navy. IfcClabi. C Katcrt. '37. Ensign. U.S. Naval Air 
Corps. 
BfcCanaick. WilHaK a , ex. '32. Lt. (j.K.). U.S.­N.R.. Curler Hall. Room 622, Princeton. N. J. McElrar. Jaaes A.. '43, V.SJI.B. Midshipmen's 
School, 704 Tower Hall, Chicago, 111. McFattand, JaiMS IL. '39. T/5, U.S. Army, A.P.O. 
640. e/o Postmaster. New York City. IfcGawan. Blair. '43, U.S. Army, Camp Roberts. Calif. McGrath. Gcarse E.. '33, Sgt.. U.SJI.C.. A.RS. 
— I2,Qaantico, Va. McGrath. Jaac* K, '41, U.S. Coast Guard. MeGrath. Jaha J,. '33, Lt.. U.S. Army, Hq. 4k Hq. 
Sqdn.. Jefferson Barracks. Ho. HcGrath. Wiliiaa F.. '42, A/C. U.SJUC. U.S. Naval Air Training Center, Pensacola, Fla. 
MdBcmy. WUBaB F.. '40, Pvt.. U.S. Army. Flight 69-919 T.S.S.. Hotel Poinsettia. St. PeUrs­burg. Fla. 
HcKar. GciaM K., '30, Lt. (j.g.), U.S.NJ{., Naval Training Station. Princeton, N. J. McKla. Edward D.. '43, Pfc, U.SJI.C., Platoon 1I2I, 8th Ree. Bn.. Parris Island. S. C. MeXanasle. RiAard E.. ex. '34. Lt. (j.g.). U.S.-NJl., 117 B.O.Q.. Fort Schuyler. Bronx. N. Y. 
McNaiuca. Walter F,. '43, Pfe., U.SJI.C.. Pla­toon 1, Reemit Depot. Marine Barracks. Parris Island. S. C. 
McNeTin. Edward K., '42, Corp.. U.S. Army. Co. 
B, F.R.T.C, Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. HeNuHr. JaaMa F.. '42. In rervice. Meaiher. Jalui. ex. '18. Lt. Com.. U.SJf.R. Merer, Jaha P.. '42. In service. mUtr. Ratert L. '42, Ensign, U.SJ4Jt. Assistant 
Supply Officer, Portsmouth, N. H. " Mack. Rarawiid G, '28, CSp., U.S.N.R., NJLT.­T.S., 87th ft Anthony, Chicago, III. Mmtedaaica^ Jahii S., '35, Lt., U.S.N.R.. Local 
Defense Force School, Boston, Mass. Xaatena. Race* J.. '41, U.S. Armr. MaaMy. Alaa B.. '40, Ffc, U.SJI.C, Marine 
Corps Base, Quantico, Va. Hawhead. WiDiaB C. '43, Pvt., U.S. Armr. FJl.­T.C., Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. BfaRiD. Kahert E.. '43. U.SJLC, Co. H. 22nd Candidates Class, M.C.S., Quantico, Va. M—UtT, WiOiaB A.. '41. 1st. Lt.. U.S. Army. 
458th C-A. Bn . Camp Stewart. Ga. HayaAaa. TilMthy. ex. '30, Lt. U.SJf.C. Malbuwr. Ratcrt S.. '42. U.S. Naval Air Corps. Harphr. Gcaite E.. '43. U.S. Marine Corps. Harvhr. J- Eauaett. '33, Ensign, U.S.N.R.. 202 
Gounders Hall. Cornell Universltr. Ithaca, N. T. Har»hr. JaaMa W.. '43, U.S. Armr, Camp Rob­
erts. CaUf. Maiphr. Jaka J.. '39. Ensign, U.SJIJt. Mariar, Edward K.. ex. '41, A/C, U.S. Armr Air 
Corps. A-A.F. Pre-Flight School. Maxwell Field, Ala. Maraay. Jaaca H., '41, U.a Cbast Guard Acad­emy, New London, Conn. lUnia. Jaha IV, '38, i:nsiKn, U.SJIJC. n.a Naval Training Station (I), Fort Schuyler. N. T. 
Nasie. Paul F , ex. '22. Lt.. U.SJI.R.. Air Oper­ating School. N-A.S., Norfolk. Va. Nash, Thiain D.. '42. U.Sjr.B. MidshipiBen;s School, New York City. Nea«k, Edward F., '43, U.S.NJt. Midshipmen's School. Notre Dame. Ind. Neild, Saanel J.. Jr.. '41. U.S, Army, Field Artil­lery, Camp Roberts. Calif. 
Nebon. Ckmries F., '42. U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Columbia University, New York City. NicfaoU. Edwmrd H„ '43, Cuyler Hall, Naval 
Training School, Princeton. N. J. 
Noda. John W., '42, U.S.N.K. Midshipmen's School, 746 Johnson Hall, Columbia University, New York City. 
Nowak. Paol T.. '38, Ensign. U.S.N.R., Philadel­phia Navy Yard, Philadelphia, Pa. Nosbaam. Boyd C, ex. '45, A.S., U.S.N.R., Co. 201, Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, 111. 
Oakei, Wliilam P., '39, U.S. Army, Officer Candi­date Bn., Co. B, Bldg. 114, Fort Washington. Hd. 
Oberiininer, Kenneth L., '40, Pvt.. U.S. Army. 
Ftost Gym, A.P.O. 309, Fort Lewis. Wash. O'Brien. James J.. '31, Lt. (i.g.), U.S.N.R. O'Brien. John J.. '41, 2nd Lt, Field Artillery, 
Camp Roberts, Calif. O'Brien, William H., '40, U.S. Arm.v, Mitchell Field, N. Y. 
O'Byme. Edward P., e.\. '29, SIC. U.S.N.R., Naval Training Station, Co. 1973, Bks. 803 W., Great Lakes, III. 
O'Byme. Rohert J.. '37, PvU. U.S.M.C.. Officer.'' Training School, Platoon 13S, Recruit Depot, Marine Barracks, Parris Island, S. C. 
O'Connor. James J., '27, Corp., U.S. Army, Co. A, 23rd Bn., Fort McClellan. Ala. O'Dea. Edward J., '31, U.S. Army, Co. F, 3I3th 
Inf., Camp Blanding, Fla. O'Donnell. Hnch K,. '40, In service. O'Hem, William SL. ex. '43, Ensign, U.S.N.R.. 

Naval Training School. Twelfth Naval District, Treasure Island, Calif. O'Neil, William J.. '43. Pvt, U.S. Army, F.R.T.C.. Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. O'Toole. John J„ '25, U.S. Army, Co. C. 32nd i.- RailtYiad Bn., New Orleans Staging Area, New Orleans, La. 
Palamko, Leo J., '36. Lt, U.S. Army, A.P.O. 937. cyo Postmaster, Seattle, Wash. Parish. John A„ '36, S/K, 3C, U.S.N.R.. c/o Fleet PostoSee, New York City. Parker. Heniy J.. '30, Lt, U.S. Army, Air Trans­port Command, Hamilton Field. Calif. Pariier. James T.. '28, Corp., U.S. Army, 4th O.R.T.C.. Aberdeen, Md. Penrose. James H.. '40, Lt , U.S. Army, 1st Bn., 87th Mtn. Inf., Camp Hale, Colo. 
Petrillo, Aons t P.. '35, Lt . U.S. Army, Military Police Corps, c^o Capt Paul Watson, Fidelity Bldg., Wheeling, Va. 
Phalin. Howard V.. '28, Lt , U.S.N.R., Naval Training School (I). Naval Air Base, Quonset Point R. I. 
Phillips, Edward F.. ex. '36, Pvt, U.S. Army, A.T. Co., 410th Inf., A.P.O. 103. Camp Claiborne, La. Pilsrim. niomas E.. '41, U.S. Army, 471 Sep. 
Coast Artillery Bn., A.A., Camp Stewart Ga. Pons, Joseph P.. ex. '44, U.S. Army, Fort George 
G. Heade, Hd. Porawski. Thaddeos S., '41, Ensign, U.S.N.R.. Naval Training Station, Princeton, N. J. 
ParceD. James BL, ex. '43, AyC, U.S. Army Air Corps. 
eviA, John C, '31. Lt (i.g.), U.S.N.R.. Naval Training Station, Princeton, N. J. 
Rafferty. Ward J„ '41, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Naval Supply School, Gallatin F-31, Harvard Univer­sity, Soldiers Field. Boston, Mass. 
Reilly, Charles J., ex. '46, U.S. Army Air Corps. 
Beilly. William F.. e-x. '45, Pvt, U.S. Army Air Corps, Group 6, B.T.D.. A.A.F.T.T.C., Sqdn. D. Room R.80, Atlantic aty, N. J. 
Reis. John F,. '43, U.S.N.R., Midshipmen's School, Abbott Hall, Chicago, III. Reidiman. William J., '41, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Naval Training School, Twelfth Naval District, Treasure Island, Calif. 
Reynolds. Joseph M., ex. '39, 2nd Lt, U.S. Army, Co. E, 4th Platoon, QJJ.O.CS., Fort Francis E. Warren, Wyo. 
Reynolds, J. WiUiam, '43, Pvt., U.S. Army, Btry. A, 912 F.A. Bn.. A.P.O. 448, Camp MeClain, Miss. 
Rini, Thomas M., '38, U.S. Army Air Cbrps. Rbka. Edward J., '41, U.S. Navy, Naval Train­ing Station, Great Lakes, 111. Rodcers. Cluirles G.. Jr., ex. '41, Ensign, U.S.N.IL, 
Naval Air Station, Key West Fla. Romanin, Albert V.,e.x. '31, Sgt, U.S. Army. Romnlo. Carios P.. LL.D. '35, Col., U.S. Army. Rosenbaum. IrrinK H., '43, Pvt, US. Army. T.G. 
— A.A.F.T.T.C., Cameron College, Lawton, Okla. Roth, John A.. '26, Pvt, U.S. Army, 93rd Armored Reconnaissance Bn., Co. A, Camp Beale, Calif. Ronstadt. Robert C . '41, U.S.N.R. Midsihipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. Roy. Raymond L., '42, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Bldg. 122, Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, III. Ryan, John V.. Jr.. '35. Ensign, U.S.N.IC Am­phibious Training Base, Little Creek, Va. 
Ryan, Joseph E., '41, A/C. U.S.N.R., Hunt 1, 15th St, R.P.L. Troy, N. Y. 
Salmon, T. Gordon, '31. U.S. Na\-y. Sanborn. Kenneth D.. e c '39, U.S. Army. Schill, Georce J., '27, Capt, 666th Ordnance Co., 
H.M., M.O.P„ Jackson, Miss. Schindler. John W.. '43, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, 405 Tower Hall, Chicago, 111. Scfairf. Vincent E.. '41, Ensign, U.S.N.R.. 51 Sage Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. Schoo, Ollie J., ex. '41, Pvt, U.S. Army, 407 
T.S.S. (Sp.), Bks. 510 Shcppard Field, Texas. Sdirader, WaUer L.. '39, C.Sp., U.S.N.R., Drill Dept, N.O.B., Norfolk, Va. 
Scfaroe'er. Edward H., '40, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Avi­ation Gunnery Officers School, Bldg. 611, Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla. 
Schwartz, Charles L., '30, L t (i.g.), U.S.N.R., Naval IVaining Station, Princeton, N. J. Scfawartzel, Charles J., '34, A.S., U.S.N.R., Nax-al Training Station, Co. 73, Great Lakes, 111. ScnUy, WillUm H.. '42, U.S.M.C, Platoon 1108, Recruit Bn., Marine Barracks, Parris Island, 
S. C. 
Segnin, Bernard R., '40, AyC, U.S. Army Air Corps. A.A.F. Pre-Flight School, Maxwell Field, Ala. 
Shaner. John F.. '36, Capt, M.C.. A.D.T.S, Air Base Hospital, Albuquerque, N. Hex. Shea. Martin H.. '41, Pvt, U.S. Army, 1511 Ser­
vice Unit, Wall Street Armory, Toledo, O. Shean, Hobart P., Jr., '31, L t (j.g.), U.SJJ.R. Sheble. Ernest K.. ex. '04, Major, Corps of Engi­
neers. Sherman. Wesley T.. ex. '33, A.A.F., A.P.O. 833, 
c/o Postmaster, New York City. Shields, Thomas W.. ex. '40, In service. Simon. Joseph F.. ex. '34, In service. Smalley. Joseph G.. '40, Pfc, U.S. Army, S.C.P.C.. 
35-11 35th Ave., Long Island City, N. Y. Smith, Dudley K.. '43, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. Smith. Gerald A.. '43, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School. 610 Tower Hall, Chicago, lU. 
Smith, James H., '39, Pvt, U.S. Army, 23rd T.S.S. (Sp.). Class 13, Platoon 14, Fort Logan, Colo. Sokerka Andrew R., '38, P\t . U.S. Army, Co. A, 
20th Tmg. Bn., B.I.R.T.C., Fort HcQellan, Ala. Solan, Frederick C, '36, Ensign, U.S.N.R. Solon, John J., '43, P\-t, U.S. Army, Camp Rob­
erts Calif. Somers, Louis M.. '39, Hq. Co., 76th Brig., 38th Div., Camp Shelby, Miss. 
Suck. Robert N.. '41, Sqdn. 3, Flight B, San An­tonio Aviation Cadet Center, Classification Cen­ter, San Antonio, Texas. 
Sullivan. Lawrence P.. '43, U.S.M.C, Officers Candidate Class, Platoon 1120, Recruit Depot, Marine Barracks, 8th Bn., Parris, S. C. 
SsOiTaa. William F.. '43, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Abbott Hall, Chicago, III. SweeocT. Hanid R., ex. '39. Pfc, U.SJI.C., A.R.S. 
4. S.G., Marine A.N., San Diego, Calif. Sweeaey. Kabert F., '43, U.Sjr.R. Midshipmen's School, 608 Tower Hall, Chicago, III. 
SwccBey, Robert M.. '41, AyC, U.S. Army Air Corps, Pre-FIight School, Group 12, Sqdn. 2, San Antonio Aviation Cadet Center, San An­tonio, Texas. 
Teny, Ridurd M,, ex. '45, Pvt, ASN 15095821. Army • Air Forces College. Training Detachment (Air Crew), Duquesne University, Pittsburgh. Pa. 
TiaaMrman. RobeH T.. '43, U.S.N.R. Midship-
men's School, 414 Tower Hall, Chicago, III. Ttrnpaai. Ernest C, '41, U.S. Army. Toaasi. Francis C . '42, 1st Lt , Dental Corps. 
A.A.F„ O.T.S., Miami Beach, Fla. Trapp. John F. '40. 2nd Lt, Med. Adm. Corps. M.R.T.C., Camp Barkeley, Texas. Treahlay. Norman C. '41, Pfc, U.S. Army. -P.M.G. School, Military Fblice Occupational Course, Class 2, Fort Custer, Mich. Tsialis. Alexis T.. '41, Officers Training School, Fort Custer, Mich. Tamock. Bernard J.. '43, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Chicago, III. 
Van HaUebeke. HiUarie A., ex. '38, Pvt, U.S. Army, 354th Base Hqs. & A.B.TnK ., Army Air Base, Sioux City, Iowa. 
Veit. Fcancu A,. '42. U.S. Army, 0>. F, 2nd Fi­nance Tunin g Bn„ Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. 
Veiar, Lawrence »L. '34. C^p.. U.S.N.R.. Naval Training Station, Sqdn. 3, N.O.B., Norfolk, Va. Verdank. Jahn H.. '41, U.S. Army, Officers Train­ing School, Fort Custer, Mich. Vadewcde. Frederick A.. '41, Lt, U.S. Army. 20th Ferrying Group, A.T.C., Nashville, Tenn. VaOnMr. Jaaeph w;, '42, CpU U.S. Army 7th Port Headquarters Co., Colton, Calif. 
WaUran, Joseph J.. '36, Ensign, U.S.N.R., 86 Brown St, Providence, R. I. Wallan. Jahn R.. '34, Lt, U.S. Army, Camp Davis, N. C. Walsh. Kabert M.. '43, Ensign, U.S-N.R., Naval Training Station, Princeton, N. J. Weeks. David K , ex. '25. (M.D.) Major, U.S. Army. Wemha*. Fiands J., '41, U.S. Army, 16th Special Service Unit, Camp Shelby, Miss. Weaser. Donald R, ex. '44. 2nd Lt, U.S. Army Air Forces. Wcatwarth. Georce R., '36. Ensign, U.S.N.R., Boston, Mass. WcstCBberser. Geoise L.. '42, U.S. Army Air Corps. Weatka». Herbert A.. '41, Pvt, U.S. Army, 28th T.S.. Jefferson Barracks. Mo. White. Jmmtm W.. ex. '43, 2nd Lt , U.S. Army 
Air Forces, Foster Field, Texas. Wilk. Jaaeph A., '31, U.S. Army. Wilian. Waiiam L.. ex. '43. Pvt, U.S. Army, Co. 
A, 1st Platoon, 77th Inf. Tmg. Bn., Bldg. 1202. Camp Roberts, Calif. Witt, Ralph D., '32, 358th Eng. G.S. Begt, Camp Claiborne. La. 
Waenaer. William J., '38, 2nd Lt , U.S. Army, Post Headquarters, Army Emergency Relief, Fort Knox, Ky. 
Walfe, Leonard H.. '42, 8th Ferry Sqdn., Ferry­ing Division, A.T.C, Municipal Airport, Mem­phis, Tenn. 
WaW, Jaiaes E., ex. '44, TySgt. U.S. Army, 
A.P.O. 942. cyo Postmaster, Seattle, Wash. Welff. J. Fraderick. '40. 2nd Lt , A.P.O. 942, cyo Postmaster, Seattle, Wash. 
Waads. William J.. '41. Pvt., U.S. Army. 7th Section C-9-3. F.A.R.C., Fort Bragg, N. C. 
Zli""anMa, Bernard J.. '34, SIC, U.S.N.R.., P.O. Box 6«1. Fort Lauderdale. Fla. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Hiss Thelma Towne and Dr. Vittorio G. Arcadi, '35, of Whittier. Calif. 
Ifiss Hary Worthington and Frederick W. Hon­criump, '39, of New York City. 
Marriages 
The marriage of Miss Mary McGrane, and Lt. Charles F. Colton, '29, took place on Jan. 25. at Buckley field. Colo. Lt. John J. Cody. ex. '42, was the best man. 
Miss Gabriella Kinney, and Dr. Frank A. Man­zione, '30. were married on Dec. 27. in Peterson. 
N. J. 
The marriage of Miss Sarah Irene Metz and Charles A. Conley, '33, took place on Feb. 13, in Merwood, Pa. At the altar during the marriage ceremony were Rev. John P. Lynch, C.S.C. '25. and Rev. John A. Molter, C.S.C, '29. Maurice W. Lee. *33. was the best man. Harold E. Duke. '30, and Walter R. Ridley. '31. were the ushers. 
Hiss Estelle Broussard and Lt. (s.g.) Francis 
J. Sddneter, V.S.N.R., '35. were married on Feb. 20, in Beaumont, Texas. Mrs. Schlueter is the daughter of Clyde E. Broussard, '13. 
The marriage of Hiss Elsa Marie Muenster and Bernard F. Hartz, *37, took place on Nov. 26. in Indianaoplis. 
Hiss Hadeleine Claire Shannon, and Lt. Ray­mond E. McGratfa, U.S. Army Air Corps, '37. were married on March 2. in Houston. Texas. 
The marriage of Hiss Janet Patrice "Walsh and Ensign John F. Tansncy, Jr.. U.S.N.R., '38, took place on Feb. 12, in Washington, D. C. 
"Die marriage of Hiss Eleanor Gavanaugh and Lt. Joseph M. Corcoran, U.S.N.R., '39, took place on Feb. 16, in New York City. 
Hiss Patricia Engle and Lt. John C. Cole. *40, were married on Feb. 3. in Orlando, Fla. 
The marriage of Miss Caroline Rachel Gal­breath, and Lt. James E. Carran, '40, took place on March 6, in South Bend. 
Hie marriage of Miss Helen Elizabeth Phelan and John J. GUrane. '40. took place on Oct.- 3, in Whittier, Calif. 
Hiss Pauline Churchill and Ensign William F. Halpin, U.S.N.R., '40, were married on Sept. 18, in Portsmouth, N. H. 
The marriage of Hiss Dolores H. Nelson and James P. McCUrren, '40, took place on Jan. 2 in Beaverdale, Pa. 
The marriage of Hiss Frances Bray and John 
B. Asclaxe, *41. took place on Feb. 18. in Delta. O. 
Hiss Harie Ellen Walsh and Jerome J. Froclich, *41, were married on Feb. 13, in Newark, N. J. 
The marriage of Hiss Victoria Puddicomlie and Ensign John M. Kelly, U.S.N.R.. '41. took place on Oct. 17, in Corpus Christi, Texas. 
Miss Ellen Trimarco and Ensign Donald E. 
Kralovec, U.S.N.R.. '41. were married on Feb. 27, in Oak Park, III. 
The marriage of Hiss Virginia Harie Raiss and Edward A. Mahoney, Jr., *41, took place on Feb. 
6. in Buffalo. N. Y. 
Miss Evelyn Moll and Daniel E. Sallivaii. '41, were married on Dec. 6. 
The marriage of Hiss Elizabeth KiefTer and Lt. John H. Verdonlc, '41. took place on Feb. 2. at Notre Dame. 
Miss Jean Elizabeth Devine and Ensign John J. Gavin. U.S.N.R., '42. were married on March 2, in Indianapolis. 
The marriage of Miss Anne Humphrey Keller and Ensign John W. Gilbert. U.9.N.R., *42. took place on Dec. 26. in Mount Sterling, Ky. 
Hiss Barbara Flynn and Ensign Francis B. Qninn, U.S.N.R., *42. were married on Jan. 30. in Indianapolis. 
The marriage of Miss Mary Donahue and Ensign Qaentin J. Marshall, U.S.N.R.. '42. took place on Feb. 2, in Jacksonville. Fla. 
Miss Marian Helen Loughery and Donald A. Potter, '43, were married on Feb. 6, in Indian­apolis. 
Births 
Hr. and Hrs. W, Joseph Haloney, ex. *22. an­nounce the birth of a daughter on Dec. 25. in Chicago. 
A daughter, Susan Kay, was bom to Hr. and Mrs. Russell H. Amdt, '25, on Feb. 7, in Hisfa­awaka. 
A daughter, Regina. was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Henry R. Frcy, '30, on Sept. 22, in New York City. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. Regis KiAn. '32, announce the birth of a son, John Regis II, on Feb. 22, in Latrobe, Fa. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank L. Harmy, *32, announce the birth of a son. Thomas George, on Feb. 3. in Battle Creek. Mich. 
A dauf^ter, Joanne, was bom to Hr. and Hrs. R«3'ii«i J. Naher. '33, on Jan. 28. 
A daui^ter was bom to Mr. antf Mrs. BealaaiB 
H. Wcfantcia. '33, on March 11, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. JaaKs H. CSeaam, *34, annotince the birth of a son. James Patrick, on June 19. 
Hr. and Mrs. William C. BeOIr, '34, annoance the birth of a son, Paul Vernon, on Feb. 6, in Orange, N. J. 
A dao^ter. Susan Mary, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Vaa Halsseluw. *35, on Nov. 20, in Elmharst, IlL 
Hr. and Mrs. Jaha J. Vcihanc, '35, annoance the birth of Barbara Anne on Jan. 18. in "WU­mington, Del. 
Mr. and Hrs. Jalias P. Racca, '36, announce the birth of a daughter. Marie Anne, on March 16, in Linden, N. J. 
A son, Larry, Jr., was bom to Hr. and Mrs. Lawrence F. Sibr» '36, on Jan. 19. in Chicago. 
Mr. and Hrs. ChaHes W. Daluialek. '37. an. nounce the birth of a son on Feb. 3, in Sooth Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Karl G. Kins, Jr., '37, announce the birth of a son, Karl IH, on Dec 15, in South Bend. 
A son was bom to Hr. and Mrs. FraiKis F. Vaktich. *38, on Jan. 25. 
A son was bom to Lt. and Mrs. Framchi T. Farrdl. *39, on March 12, in South Bend. 
Ensign and Mrs.' Francis B. Kdly, '39. an> nounce the birth of a son, Frank m . in Jackson­ville, Fla. 
Hr. and Hrs. Jalfas K. Kristaa, '39, announce-the birth of a son. Uichael Damian, on Oct. 11,. in New Haven. Conn. 
A son, Michael Hugh, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. 
E. Bmtf Winterrawd, '39. on Nov. 22, in Wash­ington, D. C. 
A son, Hichael Richard, was bom to Pfc and Mrs. WilliaM R. DUIen, '40, on Dee. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Farrell, '41, announce the birth of a son. Charles Joseph H, on Nov. 28. 
FOR GOD. COUNTRY. NOTRE DAME 
IN GLORy EVERLASTING 
Corp. Richard L. Novak, '29 (class of '28), died in Lawson General Hospi­tal, Atlanta, on Feb. 27. 
Dick was inducted into the Army in May, 1942, and after being, stationed at Fort Monmouth, N. J., and Washing­ton, D. C, was attached to the 801st Signal Regiment, Camp Murphy, Fla. He was to have entered the OflScers' Candidate School at Fort Benning, Ga., when an illness necessitated his remov­
al to the Atlanta hospital. Before he entered the Army, Dick was doing free­lance writing, residing with his mother in Clifton, N. J. 
One of the most active and successful journalists of his day at Notre Dam^ Dick was editor-in-chief of the .1927 Dome and was a leading staff monber of both the Sekolastie and the Jug­gler. In addition, he edited the foot­ball program of 1927. 
Surviving Dick besides his mother are a sister and four brothei-s, one of whom, Eev. Daniel G. Novak, O.S.B., Cleveland, officiated at the funeral Mass on March 4. 
Newton Lee Mathews, Jr., ex. '36, of 
Chicago, was killed in service in the Philippines in Januaiy, 1941, accord­ing to information just received at the University. His brother is Lieut. John 
R. Mathews, USNR, '32, 4418 Green­wood Ave., Chicago. 
Lieut. James L. Carroll, ex. '40, of Charleston, S. C, was killed on March 12 when the Army plane which he was piloting crashed at Orlando, Fla. Jim, a graduate of Christian Brothers Acad­emy, Syracuse, N. Y., had trained for a time at the Napier aviation ti-aining center in Alabama. He received his ^yings in October, 1942. 
John B. Maas, Jr., ex. '42, Grosse Pointe, Mich., died on Guadalcanal ac­cording to authentic information re­ceived by the Alumni Office, but all de­tails of his death are lacking. John was at Notre Dame from 1938 through 1941. 
Capt. Thomas J. Webster, '40, of the 

United States Marines, died as the re­. suit of injuries which he had suffered in the action on Guadalcanal on Nov. 
24. He had been removed by plane from the battle site to a nearby hospital base. 
Tom was born in South Bend on July 13, 1918, and was graduated from South Bend's Riley High School. En­tering the Marines in 1940, he received his second lieutenant's commission in San Diego, before leaving for active duty. He received his captaincy while sei-ving in the south Pacific. 
Torn made his home with his uncle and aunt, Mr. and Mrs. John W. Schindler ('09) of Mishawaka. Sur­viving also are a sister, another aunt and five cousins. 
CAPT. THOJIAS J. WEBSTEK 
John J. Whelan, Jr., ex. '43, Bloom­field, N. J., died at Corpus Christi, Texas, on Feb. 3, as the result of in­juries suffered in a plane crash. 
JOHN J. WHELAN, JR. 
Jack enlisted in the Naval Reserve in January, 1942, while he was still at Notre Dame, and then in May, at the end of his junior year, he began his preliminary flight training at Glenview, 
111. He had been at the Corpus Christi base since August and had expected to receive in February his second lieuten­ant's commission in the Marine Corps to which he had recently become at­tached. 
A magician of wide talent. Jack was the premier campus entertainer of his day. While he was still in Sacred Heart grammar school in Bloomfield he became known for his magic and at the age of 14 he applied for membership in the Society of American Magicians. Barred from this group by his age, he was made an honorary member. At Notre Dame he won first prize in the 
K. of C. vaudeville in his freshman year; and gave numerous professional shows throughout the South Bend area during his three years. Many of his best shows were given in the cause of charity. 
Surviving Jack besides his parents is a brother, William, five years old. 
2ncl Lieut. Allen H. Elward, Jr., ex. '44, of West Lafayette, Ind., the son of Lieut. Comm. Allen H. "Mai" El-
Lieot. Alkn R. Elnrd, Jr.. with his father Lieut. Comm. Allen H. "Mai" Elward, '16. 
ward, '16, was lost after his pursuit plane and the plane of a fellow officer collided over Panama Bay on March 3. Both pilots parachuted to the water but could not be found in the gathering darkness despite an all-night search. El­ward's body was found the following day floating in a lifejacket. 
Surviving the boy besides his parents are a sister and a brother. Mai Elward, the father, formerly director of athletics and head football coach at Purdue Uni­versity, is now stationed at the Navy base at Lakehurst, N. J. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Deaths 
Brother Raphael, C.S.C., one of the most bril­liant younger members of the Congregation, died in St. Joseph's Hospital. South Bend, on Feb. 11 after an illness of several months. The holder of four degrees from the University (B.S. '30, M.A. 
•36, M.S. 'SO, Ph.D. Dec. M2). Brother had been since September. 1942, a member of the Biology* faculty of the College of Science 
Born in Chicago 36 years ago, Brother Raphael entered the Congregation in 1923. Displaying a rare aptitude for mnthematics and science, he taught in several of the Congregation's high schools before he returned to Notre Dame to study for his Ph.D. degree. He had just completed his dissertation for his doctorate when he was stricken with the malady which took his life. 
Dr. Joseph F. Duane, *99, prominent eye sur­geon and a resident of Peoria, III., almost all his life, died in his home on Jan. 21. Though he had been ill for a year, his death was unexpected. 
A post mortem examination, done in accordance with Dr. Duane's wishes, proved that he had died from a generalized amyloidosis—only the fourth such case in all medical liteniture-
Born 62 years ago in Auburn. N. Y., Dr. Duane moved to Peoria when he was six years old. Fol­lowing his graduation from Notre Dame, where he won a monogram as a member of the track team of 1898-99, he was graduated from Rush Medical College. Chicago, in 1903. He did post graduate work in Vienna, Austria, specializing in internal medicine. Following his marriage in 1914 he returned to Vienna and other European points to center his studies on the eye, ear, nose and throat. Eventually he confined his work to the eye. 
Dr. Duane was a member of many medical socie­ties, local, state and national, and of various social organizations in Peoria. He is survived by his wife and by a son and daughter, the former a medical student at Northwestern University. 
William H. Malone, ex. '00. Niles, Mich., died in February according to a note in the "Religious Bulletin." 

Ray E. Danaher, ex. '02, of Detroit, died in Detroit on Feb. 21 after a brief illness. Surviving him are his wife, two sons (one of whom is James P*. Danaher, ex. '44), a daughter and his father. Member of a family long outstanding in the Michigan lumber industry, Mr. Danaher was president of the R. £. Danaher Co. in Detroit and the Booth Lumber Co.^ Eugene, Ore., as well as vice-president of the Michigan California Lumber Co., Grand Rapids. He was born in Ludington, Mich., 61 years ago. 
Howard R. Parker, *17. Sacramento, Calif., one of the most active, popular and talented students of his day at Notre Dame and one of the most devoted alumni ever after, died in Sacramento, on Feb. 22 after an illness of several months. He was a brother of Jerome Parker, '30. 
Howard came to Notre Dame from Woodland, Calif., where he had studied piano for nine years with the Sisters of the Holy Cross. On the campus his musical ability quickly made him prominent. Eventually he became pianist for the then-young Glee Club and for a time was its director. 
In journalism also Howard was a stand-out. A journalism major under Dr. John M. Cooney, he was editor-in-chief of the 1917 "Dome" and. an editor of the "Scholastic." 
Recommended for Officers* Training School by the late Father John Cavanaugh, Howard became a second lieutenant in World War I. He joined the stair of the California National Bank. Sacra­mento, in 1919, and rose to become its vice-president as well as general manager of the Call* fornia National Corporation. After ranking num­ber one in qualifying examinations, he was ap­pointed by Governor Young in 1936 as manager of the Department of Corporations of the state of California. His work took him to San Francisco, where he became ill last September from a blood infection. In San Francisco, he served as presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of Northern Cali­fornia. 
Howard was married in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame in 1935 to Miss Helen Busic of Sacramento, with Mr. and Mrs. Bernard J. Voll as the attend­ants. (Howard had been Bernie's best man in 1921). Surviving are his wife and three sons, as well as four brothers and a sister. 
Howard returned frequently to the campus (de­spite the distance) and was particularly active in arranging reunions of his class. His piano-playing was, as always, a highlight of the 25th anniver­sary reunon of the class last May. (See 1917 news, this issue, for further comment.) 
William H. Shechan. '35, Oakland. Calif., died in Oakland on Jan. 22. He was a brother of Eileen Shcehan. Manchester, N. H., who received her 
A.B. at Notre Dame in the summer of 1929. Bill had been an employee of the American Trust Company. Oakland, since 1936. 
Surviving are two sisters and three brothers. The body was returned to Manchester for burial. 
Howard H. "Pat" Flannery, *34, East Hampton. L.L, N. Y.. died on Jan. 31 as the result of a kidney ailment from which he had been suffering for more than a year. Since 1939 he had been East Hampton manager of the Long Island Light­ing Company and had worked for the same com­pany since 1935. 
Pat was married in 1937 to Miss Mary Eliza Thomas. Surviving are his wife, his young son, his father, stepmother and a half-brother and half-sister. 
Frank J. Wukovits, Jr.. '3S. of South Bend, brother of Thomas J. Wukovits, '38, and William Wukovits, a present student, died on March 12 after a heart attack suffered in the yards of the New York Central Railroad. Frank was employed by the N.Y.C. Born in South Bend, he had spent all his life there. His parents, two sisters and three brothers survive him. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to George L. O'Brien. '93, upon the death of his wife: Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., '11. upon the death of his brother; Maaricc F. Smith, *21, upon the death of his mother; Rev. Henry J^ '24, and Frank S. Bolger, *26, upon the death of their mother; James R. Meehan, '24, upon the death of his mother; William V. Dielmann, Jr., *25. upon the death of his father; John F.. '28. and Joseph F. Robinson, '31. upon the death of their mother; James P. "Pat" Canny, *2S, upon the death of his father; Bernard E. Loshboach, *29. upon the death of his mother,; Brace (minim) and Wallace M. Rogerson, ex. *29, upon the death of their father; Donald J., '29. and Devere T. Plunkett. '30, upon the death of their father; Bernard J. Roethele, *32, upon the death of his daughter; Eugene S. BUsh, '34. upon the death of his wife: Edward H., '36, and John P. Daley, '38, upon the death of their father; Edward R. Goffgin. '40. upon the death of his father; William V. Jordan, '37, and AyC Cecil E. Jordan, '40. upon the death of their mother; Ensign Richard E. Ball, '41, upon the death of his father; Lt. (j.g.) Thom­as J. McGee. *41. upon the death of his father; George T. O'Connor, '41, and J. Ready O'Connor, ex. '44, upon the death of their father. 
Personals 
 E. Barke, 'SS, 3«1 
Camp, New Oricaiia^ 

Before 1890 P. 
Contribators, Jan. IS-Harcfa 15 

Francis H. Boland, '87. San Francisco; J. H. 
Fendrich, '85, Evansville, Ind.; Thomas Hale, '79, 
(additional) Pryor, Okla.; Vincent E. Morrison, 
'89, Minneapolis. 
 J. A. HacNamara, *97» 1890-99 Rer. 
Saint Joseph's lUGncral Baths, Moant Clemens, Mich. 
Contribators, Jan. 13-Marcfa 15 

Dr. Francis W. Barton, '96, Danville, 111.; Eu­
stace Cullinan, *95, San Francisco; Frank W. 
Davis, '95, Constantine, Mich.; James R. Fitzgib­
bon, '92, Newark, O.; John M. Manley, '90, Cin­
cinnati ; Frank McCarthy, *94, Kokomo, Ind.; Dr. 
Richard C. Monahan. '96. Butte. Mont.; Oscar F. 
Smith, *95, Rock Island, 111.; William A. Walsh. 
'97, Yonkers, N. Y.; Louis C. Wurzer, '96, Detroit. 
Alumni of the era will learn with keen regret 
of the death of Dr. Joseph Doane, '99, of Peoria. 
III., one of the most able and best known men of 
his profession in central Illinois. Details of Dr. 
Duane's death will be found under "Deaths" in 
this issue. 
Death struck again into tne family circle of 
1890-99 men when the wife of George L. O'Brien. 
'93, of South Benil. a lay trustee of the University, 
was taken. Sirs. O'Brien was known and admired 
by a great many persons connected with the Uni­
versity. 
Father Mac writes from Mt. Clemens that he 
had a good reunion there with Father Leo Szybo­
wicz, pastor of St. Casimir's Church, Lansing. 
Mich. Father Szybowicz was at Notre Dame from 
1S98 to 1904. 
Father Mac had recently heard from Ckristopiwr 
C. Fitzgerald, '94. of Havana, who despite the *94 graduation, is trying to get into the current war, having already served in the Spanish War and World War I. Regarding the death of Dan Morphy, '95, Mr. Fitzgerald writes, "The last time I saw Dan was on Christmas Eve, 1898. He was down here representing some newspaper and I was here with the 2nd U.S. VoL Engineers . . . outside the city where we had been working for six weeks preparing the camp for the 7th corps, which formed the Army of Occupation, and also cleaning up Havana. . . - RoIIo Adelsberger of 
N.D. was in the 2nd Engrs. also." 
Mr. Fitzgerald writes also of his operation, on Nov 17. 1917, by the late Dr. Emilias McKee and of later experiences in World War I, particularly his meeting with Father Hattheir Walsh aboard the Leviathan on the way to France. 
Wanted by 1890-99 secretary: news—any time, 
anything. All letters promptly answered. 
lOOA t%A '^'^^ ^ Proctar. 'M, Hragtr I TUU-U T BaOdiiW. ElUiart, Ind. 
Contribators, Jan. 15-March 15 

Francis F. Dukette. '02, Los Angeles; George Halpin. '01, Lapeer. Mich.: Francis B. Hughes. '03. Los Angeles; Cfement K. Qutnn. '02. Duluth. Minn.; Joseph P. Sheils. *00. Chicago; J. t^ Spalding Slevin, *00. Peoria. III. 
 Tbomu E. Bwiw. CS.C 1905-09 Rer. 
'n, Notte Duae. Ind. 
Contribatora, Jan 15-March 15 

J. A. Caparo. '08, Notre Dame; James D. Jordan, '07, Scranton, Pa.: Paul R. Martin. '09, Cumberland, Md.; John B. Kanaley, '09. (addi­tional) Chicago: Edmund L. McBride. '09. Pitts­burgh: Alexander W. McFarland. '06, Cleveland: John E. Moore, '07, Detroit: Joseph F. Oelerich, '09. Chicago; Vamum A. Parish. '08. Momence. 111.: Joseph D. Sinnott. '08. Seattle; Henry E. Weiss, '08. Kenmere, N. Y. 
A recent news note brings word that during "Mrs. Hayes and I live in Chula Vista, a sub­Ifis illness dated back to September of 1943, the 32 years Father Henry Kemper has been urb of San Diego, about four miles from the and from October 4 of that year when he was pastor of Notre Dame Church, Korrville, Texas, Mexican border. I am not actively engaged in any taken to the hospital, until the date of his death. he has distributed 274,000 Communions, heard business, but do occasionally buy a piece of real he was fighting a losing battle. 
more than 130,000 confessions and officiated in 1,600 baptisms, including 204 adult baptisms. 

Postmaster General Frank C. Walker, *09, an­nounced on Feb. 15 the resignation of Ambrose 0*ConneU, '07, as first assistant postmaster gen­eral, effective Hnrch 1. Mr. O'Connell resigned to l>ecome vice chairman of the Democratic na­tional committee of which Mr. Walker is chair­man. 
 Michael L. Moriarty, 8215 St. 
CUir Ave.. Cleveland, O. 
1910 Rev. 
Contribntors, Jan. 15-March 15 

Samuel K. Dolan, Corvallis. Ore.; Wales E. Finnegan, Dayton, O.: Lawrence J. Janszen, Cin­cinnati ; Rev. Michael L, Moriarty, Cleveland. 
Father Mike HoriaHy writes from St. Philip JCeri Church in the good city of Cleveland to tell the Alumni Office that there ^i^hould be 1910 news ^or the next issue of the "Alumnus." Reason: the secretary has written a letter to the class, and he 
anticipates an overwhelming response. 
 Fred Steers, 1666 First National Bank 
m
l 
I Bide.. Chicaco. lU. 
Contribators. Jan. 15-March 15 Chester D. Freeze, Los Angeles; Anton R, Heb­

•enstreit. Albuquerque, N. M.; James L. Hope. .Astoria, Ore.; Joseph B, Murphy, Dayton, O.; 
Carl Pick. West Bend, Wis.; Elmer J. Whitty, -Chicago; Alba H. Wrape, Paragould, Ark. 
 J. Kaiser. 324 Fourth St. Pitts-
harsh, Pa. 
1912 B. 
Contribators. Jan. 15-March 15 

Benedict J. Kaiser, Pittsburgh; Jay L. Lee, Detroit; Joseph B. McGlynn (additional) East .St. Louis, HI.; Paul Rush. Memphis; Edward J. 
Weeks, Grosse Pointe Woods, Mich. 
 Paul R. Byrne, Universitj- Library*. 
m
^ 
3 Notre Dame, Ind. 
Contribators. Jan. 13-March 15 

Dr. William J. Corcoran (additional) Chica­rgo; Kcene Filzpatrick, San Francisco; C Byron .Hayes. Fort Wayne, Ind.; William N. Hogan, 
.Wheeling, W. Va. 
 H. Hayes, 642 Third Ave., 

1914 Frank 
Chala Vista. Calif. 

Contribators, Jan. 15-March 15 Dr. John R. Dundon, Milwaukee; Simon T. Farrell, Joliet, HI.; Eugene A. Kane. Rocky River, O.; Raymond T. Miller, CJcxeJand; M. Emmett Walter, Houston, Tex. In response—favorable —to a letter regarding the Centenary Fund, Mr. Ray T. Miller. Union Commerce Building, Cleveland, xvrote Ui Mr. Frank H. Hayes. Chula Vista, Calif., in part as follows. "Why the . . . don't you find out some­thing about your classmates and -write about them in the "Alumnus?" Every month I turn to 1914 and see the name of 'Francis Hayes* but no information. If you don't know about anybody else, why don't you write about yourself?" To which the aforesaid Mr. Hayes replied in 3>art: "Hie only other *14 men in the immediate vicin­ity are General Malcahy. whom I see infrequently; and Bin Cosadc, -who is practicing law in Los Angeles; and Bill Cook, who used to live in St. .Joe Hall with us, is in Los Angeles. "Every time I receive the 'Alumnus,* I, too, turn to .1914 hoping to find some word of our class­mates, so I am going to follow your suggestion and tell how little I am doing - and then ask all. our classmates to write the 'Alumnus* and do likewise. 
estate in the hope of selling it at a profit. 
"San Diego has grown from a retired citizen's paradise to a city of 350.000. The aircraft plants have brought in thousands of workers. Tlie crowds on the streets today remind one of South Bend. 
"Now, instead of 'turning the heat' on me. why didn't you give us the 'low-down* on *Niir" Kane and Joe Smith and any other '14 men in Cleve­land? Well, now it is up to you and other *14 men to write a letter to the 'Alumnus* telling what you are doing. Don't forget to tell of any news of our classmates that you are in touch with." 
And now the Alumni Office is waiting to be swamped by '14 letters. Herbert Hellranr. Alton, III., who has a freshman son in the University, visited on the campus on March 19, renewing his friendship with Father Hugh O'DonneU with whom he was in school. 
 E. Sanford. 3236 N. Lakewoad 
1915 
James 
Ave.. Chicago. lU. 
Contribators, Jan. 15-March 15 Norman C. Bartholomew, Iron Mountain, Mich.; Alvin Berger, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Albert A. Kuhle, La Grange, III.; Bernard M. Regan, Mandan, S. Dak.: Howard J. Rohan. Cincinnati; Dr. Elmer 
E. Sexton. St. Louis; Henry B. Snyder, Whiting, Ind.; March F. Wells. Bloomington. 111. 
1916 
Grover Miller. 610 WIsccnsin Ave., Racine. Wis. 
Contribators. Jan. I5~Marcfa IS Edward J. Beckman. Manhasset, N. Y,; Jerome 
F. Cermak. Chicago; Dr. John F. Delph. Chicago; Joseph P. Flynn, Rochester, N. Y.; Thomas A. Hayes, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Frank J. Lauer­man, Jr.. Marinette, Wis.; AVilHam B, Meuser. Dubuqur. 'a ; Rieh rd C. Muckermann, St. Louis; Dr. D. M. Nigro, Kansas City, Mo. 
 J. VoU. 206 E. Tatt St., Soath 
Bend. Ind. 
1917 B. 
Contributors, Jan. IS'AIarcfa 15 Oscar J. Dorwin, New York City; Bernard V. Haberer. Fort Worth, Tex.; Thomas C. Kelly. Pittsburgh; Frederick L. MahafTey, Indianapolis: 
W. Breen McDonald, San Mateo, Calif.; Edward 
J. McOsker, Cleveland Hgts., O.; Bernard H. Miller, Racine, Wis.; Charles M. Reagan. New-York City; Rigney J. Sackley. Chicago; John C. Shea, Dayton, O.; James R. Walsh, Chicago; Lawrence J. Welch, Indianapolis; Claude R. Yockey, Alpena; Mich. 
From Bernie VoU: 
On Feb. 22. 1943, Howard R. Paiker was called to his eternal reward. He will be remembered by all of his classmates as one of our most versatile and colorful companions of campus days. 
Because of an exceptional ability as a pianist, and the many hours of comfort and entertainment which he afforded us, he will generally be remem­bered in that capacity. His activities on the cam­pus, however were manifold, as attested by the fact that he was editor-in-chief of the "Dome," editor-in-chief of the "Scholastic," and after Father O'Donnell's retirement from the Glee Club, director and manager of that organization. 
No one whom I have know*n since graduation had more devotion to Notre Dame than Howard. and his visits to the campus were regular, either annual or bi-annual, which is something when one considers it necessitated 4,000 miles of travel to make the round trip. These visits were looked forward to by those of us on the campus and close to the campus because of the happy spirit of the man and the hours of pleasure which his magic touch on the piano keys gave us. 
The infection that got into his blood stream was strep veridans, for which apparently there is no known cure. 
His brother Jerome, *30. writes that his mind was alert and active up to the very end, in spite of the fact that almost continuous fever for five months had taken terrible toll of his physical being. Even though emaciated in body, his faith was strong, and his determination to live inspired the admiration of his attending physicians. 
Durng his long siege of illness a retiuest for prayers had been broadcast and the response from Notre Dame and the Sisters of St. Mary's scat­tered throughout the countr>' was a noble one. Howard, upon being informed regarding this, came up with a typical Parker remark: "All bases are certainly covered." 
May God have mercy on the soul of a great Notre Dame man. We shall miss him terribly, but a beautiful memory lingers. 
John Cassidy, former attorney general of Illi­nois, has been appointed national counselor of the Illinois Chamber of Commerce. John, practicing law in Peoria, is a director of the Peoria Associa­tion of Commerce. 
From Mrs. Lenna Shea, of Dayton. O., wife of John Shea, '17, has come to Father Hagh O'Don­nell, president, a gift of $25 to the Centenary Fund, in honor of the late Father John Cava­naagh. former president. Mrs. Shea writes that John has been ill for 10 years. 
1918 
Jokn A. Lcmmer. 901 Lake Shore Drive, Eicanaba. Mich. 
Contribators, Jan. IS-March IS 
Clarence H. Brown. West Dearborn. Mich.: Vincent C. Giblin. Miami, Fla.: Thomas J. Ho-ban. Elein, III.; Francis J. Hurley. Chicago: John A. I^mmer, Escanaba, Mich.: Dr. Rene KodriBuez, Denver: E. Morris Starrett. Port Town­send. Wash. 
Charlie Call, former Xew York newspaperman, is now Lieut. Charles W. Call, USNR. In late January, Charlie was stationed at Ambrose Naval Base. Tompkinsville, S.I., (and if "S.!." doesn't stand for Staten Island, then don't ask the editors what it does stand for). 
Another '18 man now in the service is Jacic Meatlier who in early February Rave us his job as director of athletics at Auburn to become a lieutenant commander in the Navy. ser\ine in the physical education division. Jack was a captain in the Marines in World War I. 
1919 
Lieat. Comm. Clarence W. Bader, 650 Pierce St., Gary, Ind. 
Contribators, Jan. I3-March 15 
Maurice J. Carroll. Kansas City. Mo.; Philip 
J. Kiley. Marion, Ind.; W. Joseph Maloney, Chi­cago ; Joseph A. Meyer. Cincinnati: William P. Mullen. Grand Island. Nebr. 
Andy McDonough is 
now a major, having 
bee n promoted re­
cently from a cap­
taincy. Ed Meehan. 
South Bend, conveyed 
thi s information b y 
telephone, the n fol­
lowed up with the 
handsome picture of 
Andy which • api>ears 
here. The address is 
337th Service Group. 
AFO 942. c/o Post­
master. Se-
Majar BbDmMcli attle. Wash. 

' And just to keep 1918 from eathering all the naval honors, 1919's .secretary joined up and, at last reports, was carrying on at Norfolk, Va. Yes, it's Lieat. Comm. Clarence W. Bader, Gary, Ind. Chick reported to Norfolk on Feb. 2, accord­ing to a note from his best campus representative, the Rev. Charks Doremus, C.S.C. 
 B. Ward. 1012 Black Bld^., Los 
Anceks, Calif. 

1920 Leo 
Contribators, Jan. 15-M«rch 15 

Leo J. Hassenauer, Chicago; Eugene W. Hauscr, Cedar Rapids. la.; Humphrey L. Leslie. Waverly, la.; Albert Uebbing, Chicago. 
Time keeps marching! Two of the latest students in the University are the sons of Ed Meehan and Dillon Patterson, both of South Bend. Ed is ad­vertising manager of the "South Bend Tribune" and Dillon is general agent for the Northwestern National Life Insurance Company. ' 
Art "Dutch" Bencraan. as the new coach of the Washington Redskins of the National Football League, joins a large and growing Notre Dame group in the latter organization. As Francis J. Powers puts it in the "Chicago Daily News," "the Notre Dame Victory March can now do double duty for the National Football League. The Irish are taking it over. There's Elmer Layden as commis­sioner, Curley Lambcaq coaching the Green Bay Packers. Honk Anderson with the Bears, Gns Dorais with Detroit, and now Arthur Bergman has signed with George Preston Marshall to direct Washington while Ray Flaherty is in the Navy. Besides. Chnck Sweeney is a league ofhcial and Geone Strickler (non-athlete) primes the publicity pump." 
Since this story was written, the appointment of Chili Walsh as coach of the Cleveland Rams has been announced. 
Dutch Bergman scouted the Chicago Bears for Washington last season and was credited with devising the defense which stopped the Chicago­ans in the championship game. 
 W. Dnffn IfiOO Terminal Tower. 
Clereland. O. 

1921 Dan 
Contribators. Jan. 15-March 13 

Raymond J. Conrad, St. Cloud. Minn.: Otto J. Drasek. Berwyn. III.; Thomas C. Kasper, Aber­deen. S. Dak.; Stephen F. Nyikos, Gary, Ind. 
Pfc Vincent A. Naeel a couple of months ago was -with Co. D., Army Administration School, Branch no. 3. Brookings, S. Dak. In civilian life Vince was with the National Photo Identity Corp., Chicago. His home is in Plymouth, Ind. Vince asked especially to be remembered to Father Tom Irving. 
1922 
Gerald Aihe, 46 West Arenae, HUton, 
S. Y. 

Contributors. Jan. 13-March 13 Raymond A. Black. Connellsville, Pa.: Daniel 
M. Coughlin. Waseca. Minn.; Lt. Vincent J. Hanrahan. Raleigh, N. C.; George P. Heneghan (additional) Chicago; Urban Hubert, Detroit: John J. Huether, Schenectady, N. Y.; Fabian T. Mudd, Los Angeles; Leo F. Mullin, Washington. 
D. C : John B. Reardon, Pittsburgh: John M. Rice. Cleveland; Herbert R. Schnettler. Saginaw, Mich.; Alfonso A. Scott, Los Angeles; Robert D. Shea. New York City; Walter L. ShiJts, Notre Dame; Clarence R. Smith, Bemidji, Minn.; Joseph Stewart, Kansas City, Mo.; Chester A. Wynne, Chicago; Clarence A. 21wack, Dubuque, la. From Kid Ashe: 
"Orphans of the Storm" might well be a fitting title for a drama enacted in Portland, Ore., in mid-January. Your secretary, who was traveling in the Northwest, came upon the good city of Portland when that metropolis was somewhat em­barrassed with an overabundance of something which to all appearances was snow. It was almost impossible to get accommodations in the overtaxed 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
hotels. Just when things looked darkest. Bill Sdimitt, *10, who had an option on a hotel room, was seeking contact with other Notre Dame men in distress, »nd offered shelter to CkarBe Hirsch-* bohl, '22. who accepted pronto. At this time, the wayward secretary entered the scene, and Messrs. Schimtt and Hirschbuhl very kindly arranged additional accommodations in their suite to pro­vide for him. Portland hospitality is really some­thing to talk about. 
Bill Sdimitt. '10, of Portland, is president of the Schmitt Steel Co. Bill takes a very active interest in all things connected with Notre Dame. and rates second to none in loyalty to N.D. 
Our own Charlie Hirschbnlil was one of the helmsmen of our class during its four-year voyage in sheltered waters at N.D.. and he still stands by the wheel of the good ship "22" now as she rides in the open sea. Some idea of Charlie's loy­alty to *22 was manifested last June when he traveled all the way- from Portland to South Bend to attend our 20th reunion. Charlie, as pres­ident of the Monarch Forge and Machine Works in Portland, is very busy these days turning out steamship parts and fittings for Uncle Sam's boats. Charlie has a charming wife, and two fine daughters, Margaret and Johann. who attend high school. 
In Portland a most welcome visit was had with Father Bob Sheehan. C.S.C., of the University of Portland faculty. You may recall that Father Bob while a member of our class took a pre­medic course at N.D. and went to St. Louis Uni­versity for further studies. Father Bob is a pro­fessor of pre-medic subjects at the U. of P. 
Father Tom J. Tobin. C.S.C, '20. is vicar-general of the archdiocese of Portland. He is pastor of a local parish. The.>^e war times most vividly recall to Father Tom the days when he was "Top Kick" of Company 2 of the SATO at Notre Dame. One recalls v.-ith amusement when Sergeant Tom would exhort Private Zabcr to in­crease the cadence. 
Dr. Eddie Anderson, formerly head coach of football at the University of Iowa, Is now Major Anderson of the U.S. Army Medical Corps. As this is written, he is in special training in the veter­ans* hospital in Clinton. la. 
The 1922 medical men in the U.S. Army are Major Eddie Anderson, Major John Mohardt, and Capt. Tom Keefe. Of cour*«, there may be others in service as yet unreported. 
A belated report on the attendance of 1922 men at the Great Lakes-N.D. football game in Chicago includes Tom Spencer McCabe, Jerry Dixon and CIcte Lynch and wife of Rockford, III. 
Your secretary had December visits with the very gracious J. P. CuUens of Elmhurst, III., and the ever-hospitable Gerald "Midnight" Marphjrs of Chicago. 
The place of honor this month gees to Captain Charles "Red" Crowley of Boston, who is now in New Guinea with the Fifth Bomber Command. Red sent us a note from New Guinea, dated Feb. 
13. Among other things, he stated that he has been in New Guinea for several months, and that he hears regularly from Eddie Anderson and Hunk Anderson, and that he does not recommend New Guinea for permanent habitation. We can well imagine that maybe "Chuck" had a hand in the blasting of 22 Jap ships destroyed in an at­tempt to land forces on New Guinea recently. Mail intended for Chuck should he addressed; Charles A. Crowley, Captain Air Corps, V Bomber Command. A.P.O. 929, San Francisco. 
Lieut. Arnold McGrath is with the U.S. Army, Service of Supply, and is located at Oakland, Calif.—-San Francisco sub port of embarkation. Arnold received his commission in the Coast Ar­tillery, but recently was transferred to Service of Supply by reason of his present assignment. 
A letter from Father Georce Fisdwr, C.S.C.. written in mid-February, imparted the news that 
he was sivioff a nussion in Anctoria, Texas, whli 
Fatlwr Cfcas—. also of the Eastern Mission Band. 
Holy Cross Consresation. Father CSeorse's itinorary 
called for him to leave Texas on Feb. 28. tfaenee 
to New York Gty for three weeks, heginniiiir 
Hardi 14. and Rodiester. N. Y.. for Holy Wedk. 
Dan Yavnv* of Dry Dock Assodatea^ Fliiladel­phia, wrote a veiy interesting letter reeently fomishins news of BiU CastdHai. As previously reported Bill is in charge of public relations for the city of CincinnatL Recently, be handled detuls for the Fresh F^ t and Vegetable Convention held there. Bill also is busy two nights « we ^ at, Xavier University, where he is teaching journal­ism and applied psydiology. In addition, he is manager of the Cincinnati Savings and Loan Ex­change. 
* Reported missing in action is Joseph J. Beax^ den. of Fort Wayne. Ind., who was at Notre Dame in 191&-19. In the Navy for a number of years, Joe was reported to have gone down with the cruiser Houston hut his death hasn't so far been officially announced. 
 H. Caslner. 137 SOTUI ATC^ Nnr 
Cansan. Cmuu

1923 Pud 
Cmtrikaton. Jan. IS^March IS 

Ralph M. Cooney, Ypsilanti, Ificfa.; Francis X. Disney, Albanjr, K. Y.: Albert Fieks, Jr., S<ars­dale, N. Y.: Thomas J. Lieb. Gainesville, Fla.; Daniel D. Lynch, Hammond, Ind.; Thomas G. Randall, Flint. Mich.: Edgar J. Ranb. Coyahosa Falls. O.; Walter F. Ranber. Swarthmore, Fa.: 
E. Merlin Rolwins. Thebes, III.; Edwin S. Ryan. Freepart,.III.; Dr. Daniel L. Sexton, St. Louis: Ivan C. Sharp, Portland, Ore. 
Harry Flannery delivered the Commencement address to the gradoates of Loyola University, Los Angeles, on Feb. 7. His subject was "Youth • in This Troubled World." 
 F. Hayes. 393 7tli Ave., 151S» 
New Yoilc City. 

1924 J. 
Contribnters, Jan. I3-SIarch 13 George H. Baldus, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Ibomas 
W. Barber, Erie, Pa.; Capt Jasper F. Cava. MJ).. New Orleans; William J. Ci-oolc, Pipestone. Minn.; 
E. Newell DeGurse, Port Huron, Hich.: J. Henry Fannan, Rockford, 111.; Thomas H. Hodgson, Hin­neapolis: Frank W. Kelly. Notre Dame; Mark G. Kreutzer, San Mateo. Calif.; Francis J. McGinais, Birmingham, Mich.; Lt. Edward B. Miller, Lans­downe. Pa.; T. Clifford Noonan, Chicago; Walter 
G. Novesky. Chicago; John C. O'Donnell. Mans­field, O.: Walter H. Rader, Coshocton. O.; Thomas 
J. Sheehan, Columbos. O.; Maurice A. Weber. St. Joseph. Mich. , 
Hernum Haffner, a Fort Wayne physician spe« cializing in dermatology, is now a captain in the Army and at the latest report was stationed at the station hospital. Camp Campbell, Ky. 
Cliff Neoaan, Chicago^ was the resident engi­neer in charge of all design and engineering work on the vast new U.S. Naval Anmranition DcpoU Hastings, Nebr. Working for Graham. Anderson. Probst A White, architects and engineers of Chi­cago, Cliff directed a staff of 221 men at Hastings. Associated with him on the iob was Teat Cssfcs, also of '24 and Chicago. 
ITZ O T«MS,O. 
Centribatevs, Jan. la-Mardi 15 John A. Bartley, Ttickahoe. N. Y.; John T. Cor­coran. Jr.. Bridgeport, Conn.; Raymond M. De-Courccy, Rodelle. III.; William V. Dielmann. Jr.. San Antonio. Tex.; Al E. Fellner. BellevlUe; Vh: Capt. Charles J. Foley. M.D.. Gamp Howie. Tesc: Richard J. F^te, San Francisco: Robert K. Gor­don. Fort Wayne, Ind.; Walter D. Hall. Minnenp­olis; Harold J. Harstiek, Pbrtland, Ore.; Ralph 
F. Heger, Evansville, Ind.; Francis W. Howland, Memphis; William C. Hurley, Saginaw, Mich.; Bernard G. Kesting (additional) Toledo; Paul L. Kohout, Boise. Ida.; Elmer F. Layden, Chicago: Bernard B. Livergood, Chicago; Francis P. Mc­Fadden, New Rochelle, N. Y.; Reuben F. Momsen, E! Paso, Tex.; Hiomas A. Moylan, Fort Wayne. Ind.; Edward F. 0*Toole, Chicago; Rudolph G. Rodighero. Lockport, 111.; Arthur W. Sajewski, Chicago; Vincent A. Schuh, Virgil. 111.; Raymond 
J. Sobatski, Cheltenham, Pa.; John F. Stoeckley. Chicago; John P. Tra>'nor (additional) New York City; John A. Whitman, Notre Dame; Les­ter J. Wolf. Camden, N. J. 
Two military addresses from two '25 young­sters: Pvt. Albert E. Foos. 10th Ferrying Sq.. Boiling Field. D. C ; John James O'Toolc. Co. C. 32nd Railroad Battalion, New Orleans Staging Area, New Orleans, La. 
Remember the South Bend boy. Dave Weeks, who for one year, before he went to Michigan for medicine, was an outstanding high jumper on the Notre Dame track team ? Well, he is now Major David M. Weeks, of the United StJites Army who is doing heroic medical work in North Africa, according to a recent International News Ser\'ice story from Inez Robb. Dave until last August when he entered the Army practiced in New York City and was attached to Roosevelt Hospital there. 

Dave while comi>eting for N.D. won the Indiana state high jump title in 1923. tied for first in the Western Conference meet of that year and also finished second in the national intercollegiate high jump competition. 
John Tnynor, says the "New York "nmes." has been named manager of real estate for the Mu­tual Life Insurance Ck)mpany. effective Feb. 15. An inspiring picture of Mr. Traynor accompanied the story in the "Hmes." 
John had been deputy superintendent of the New York State Insurance Department. His new position, one of the most important in his com­pany, is new evidence of his outstanding ability in his field. 
1926 
Victor F. Lemmer, Box 661, Iron wood. BGch. 
Contributors, Jan. 15-March 13 

Joseph A. Bailey. Chicago; Joseph E. Broussard, Jr.. Beaumont. Tex.; Edmund D. Callahan, Chica­go ; Rev. Bernard J. C^ughlin, St. Paul; Dr. George H. Dolmage. Buffalo Center, la,; Edward 
J. Duffy, Essex Falls. N. J.; Bert V. Dunne. San Carlos, Calif.; John J. Endres. Oak Park, 111.; Roman C. Feldpausch, Hastings. Mich.; James J. Glynn, Lanc:aster. O.; Rudolph A. Goepfrich, South Bend; George F. Hartnett. Wilmette. 111.; Capt. Gerald W. Hayes. M.D., East Orange. N. J.; Charles F. Heintz. Quincy. III.; J. Paul Johnson. Detroit; Dr. Thomas M. Joyce, Portland, Ore.; Brother Justin. C.F.X., Bardstown, Ky.; Ernest 
L. Landry. Holyoke. Mass.; Edwin J. Le Blanc, Beaumont. Tex.; Charles P. Marguet, New Albany, Ind.; Charles A. Hooney, Jr., Cleveland; Thomas 
J. Murphy. Cambridge, Mass.; George P. O'Day (additional) River Forest. 111.; John J. Ryan. Pittsburgh; Wade Sullivan. Algona, la. 
'26 medical notes: Major John Worden Kane (Bin^amton, N. Y.) can be reached through ITiird Auxiliary Surgical Group, APO 647. c/o Postmaster, New York City; Capt. Gerald Wcldon Hayes (East Orange. N. J.) is receiving mail in North Africa (no specific address here yet). 
Gerry, according to two different Associated Press dispatches, is in North Africa with the Air Force. One story made special mention of his leading in Catholic services on the ship going over, where he was affectionately known as "Car­dinal Hayes"; the other story singled him out as sanitation officer of the ship for the trip. 
From Chack Hooney, of Mooney and Cogan (insurance service). 1085 Union Commerce Bldg.. Cleveland, comes a most welcome missive, which is considerably, if not exclusively, about *26ers, viz.: 
••Doc Gelson 'phoned me between planes at the airport the other night on his way back to New York from Chicago. It's the first time I'd heard from him in years, and we had a nice talk about a lot of fellows that one or the other of us hadn't seen or heard of in a long time—one of them being my old roommate Charley Jodffe, who, he tells me. is in Africa with the Army. As my brother Bill is there with the Air Service Com­mand, I'm hoping they may meet, although I'm wondering if Charley is still keeping training the way he did when he was running the mile. . . . Ben Bourne's name also came up—he's been dead a little over a year now and left two little boys whom I saw last summer. One looks and the other 
acts just like Ben. Gelson is still in the insurance brokerage business, as I am, but he tells me he has five boys to pit against my girl and two boys. 
"A good many of the Notre Dame men from around here are in ser\-ice and are scattered all over the globe—however, some of us comparatively old-timers are still around and occasionally get together or see one another. Chuck Rchr has me cut down to one pat of butter and one cup of coffee, and I guess he*s done the same to Pat Canny, Bill Van Rooy, Gene Kane, Fritz Slack-ford, Johnny Chapla, Matt Trudelle. John Powers, Jack Reidy and others whom I see at his place fairly often. 
"I hear of John Hurley of Toledo everj- now and then through his brother-in-law George Hahn here. George is an officer in the Colonial Woolen Mills and is busy trying to make enough blankets to keep the Army. Navy and maritime services warm. My brother-in-law. Bill Byrider, is busy making sponge rubber for the same outfits, as president of the Oak Hill Rubber Co. in Oak Hill. O. Jirfin Butler is on the legal staff of the 

O.P.A. here in the same building, so I see him occasionally. John Murphy's and Ray Miller's law offices are also in this building, so the same goes for them. Once in awhile I hear from Tom Mc-Gnire, who is secretary-treasurer of Interlake Iron in Chicago, and Jim Devitt, he and I gener­ally get together when Tom hits town. I under­stand that dapper Dan Brady is now located here as an expediter with the Parker Appliance Co., but haven't sesn him as yet. Billy O'Neil is com­muting between here and Syracuse where he runs the Niagara Freight Lines. 
"Mrs. Mooney and I saw Pete and Mrs. Chaai­pion at a party the other night and learned that their boy is at Notre Dame; also that Marty Daly just recently became a proud papa out in Califor­nia—Mrs. Champion and Mrs. Daly are sisters— and that everyone is doing fine, including Marty I Johnny Dore, Ray and Don Miller and their wives were there too." 
Chuck' quoted a story" from" the "CleveUuid News" of Feb. 11 which gave high praise to DMI Miller for his accomplishments during his first 
•year as United States attorney-for the northern district of Ohio. Don "hasn't been scored against in the more than 185 criminal cases his regime has handled." Two of Don's assistants are Jack Kane, '25, of Youngstown and Prank Steel, '25, of Akron. 
Chuck reported that Frank Call, *08. of Cleve­land, had been recently appointed hearing officer for conscientious objectors in the northern Ohio district. 
Jfie Qntnlan is in Indianapolis, having moved up another notch, or several, in the Bell Tel organization after a considerable spell in South Bend as plant manager of the district. How about coming through with the details, Quinlan? You might even succeed in getting Mason or Rediinc­ton or other such local hermits to break down and give out with news. 
Father Joe Toomey has been appointed director of (^tholic Charities for the diocese of Syracuse. 
N. Y. 
Secret: Vic Lcmmer is the new secretary of the class of '26. He doesn't know it yet, and won't probably until he sees these words in print. The Alumni Office is, however, following a well-estab­lished principle in appointing Vic: give the job to the busiest man you can find. Vic is doubtless one of the busiest, nnd most successful, young men in Michigan, and we'll take in a lot of other territory if you want. 
It was Vic who sent out those Centenary Fund letters to the class and, while the result hasn't been exactly astonishing financially, we're hoping that Vic picked up some '26 news in the process. It's your ball for the June issue, Vic. 
1927 
Joseph H. BoUnd. Station WSBT, Sooth Bend. Ind. 
Contribotors, Jan. 15-M«rch 15 
Thad J. Bednard, Aurora. 111.; Adam J. Brink-man. Chicaeo: Philip J. Clarlte, Danville, Kj-.: John R. Conlin, De Kalb. 111.; Lawrence E. Crowley, Rose\-ille, O.; Philip E. Doell, Cleveland; Frank E. Doyle. Madison, Wis.; Thomas B. Dunn, Morris, III.; Thomas F. Farley, Jr., Kenmore. N. Y.; Marc A. Fiehrer, Hamilton, O.: Edward J. Flynn, Jacksonville, 111.: John A. Foley, Rutland. Vt.: L. William Fury, Detroit: William D. Hal­loran. River Forest, III.: John H. Harty, South Milwaukee, Wis.: Frank L. Kane, Brooklyn: Wil­liam S. HacDonald, Muncie, Ind.: John F. Horsches, Roanoke, Ind.; Harry W. O'Boyle, Wichita, Kans.: Eugene V. O'Brien. Wayne, III.; Ihomas E. O'Connor, Bellefontaine, O.: William 
A. O'Keefe, Moberly, Mo.: John J. Reidy, Cleve­land; Edwin L. Ryan, Chicago: Andrew F. Sleigh, Weston, W. Va.; Robert N. Wathen, Louis­ville; Ernest J. Wilhelm, Notre Dame. 
Licat. Gerry Froehlidi, USNR, can be reached through 203 A Fleet P.O., Balboa, Canal Zone. 
Geoice Gordon, formerly of Fort Wayne, is now with the Securities Kxchange Commission, Stand­ard BIdg., Cleveland. 
Jim O'Connor, according to a news note now a good many weeks old, is a corporal at the In­fantry Replacement Training Center, Fort Mc-Clellah, Ala., attached to Company A, 23rd Bat­talion, as a cadreman-instructor. 
1928 
Loais F. BncUey. 44SI HacArthnr Blvd., Waihincton, D. C. 
Cantributors, Jan. 13-Harch 13 

Paul O. Brust, Milwaukee; Maurice B. Conley, Fulton, N. Y.; James J. Conmey, Brooklyn; Francis P. Creadon, Riverside, 111.: James A. Cross, Salem, O.: Edward P. Cunningham, Los Angeles: Albert F. Davis, Detroit: Jerome C. DeClercq, Chicago: James A. Devlin, East Liver­
•
pool, O.: Capt. John F. Dunne, Fort Mason, Calif.; Robert F. Evans, Jr., Vicksburg, Miss.; Lt. Rob­ert P. Fogerty, Elwood, Ind.: James J. Hartley, Ridgefield Park. N. J.; Glenn M. Hatch, Allen­town, Pa.; Major Francis A. Hegarty, M.D., Tay­lor, Tex.: Henry E. Hinsenkamp, Plainsfield, N. J.; Hudson Jefferys, Ironton, O.; Charles X. Kaiser, Rocky River. O.: James W. Kelly, t.os Angeles; Joseph W. Kirwin, Iowa City, la.; Bernard J. Korzen, Chicago; Bernard T. Loeffler, Indianapolis; Edward P. McKeown, Chicago; Arthur A. Mitiguy, Burlington, Vt.; John P. Murphy, Little Rock, Ark.: Ralph L. Nolan. Jop­lin. Mo.; Lt. Pierce J. O'Connor, Fort. Ben j. Har­rison, Ind.; Henry A. Persyn, Newark, N. J.: George J. Sargus, Wheeling, W. Va.; Arthur J. Scheberle, Detroit; George A. Scheuer, Chicago: Harry F. Schubmehl, Wayland, N. Y.; Charles 

A.
 Schuessler, River Rorest, 111.; Norbert A. Seidensticker, Chillicothe, O.; John C. Sheedi-, Pittsburgh: Gerald A. Sheibley, Fostoria, O.; Joseph R. Simonin, Detroit: Arthur D. Slaviu, 


Th Notre Dame Alumnus 27 
Milwaukee; Russell R. Smith. Sandusky* O.; Dr. 
S. David Solomon. Ebensburfr. Pa.; Charles A. Totten, Pittsburgh; Vincent T. Walsh, Monticello. III.; Laurence A. Winjrerter, San Antonio, Tex. From Loa Buckley: 
No doubt roost of you read the sad news in the death notices of the February "Alumnus'* about the death of Leo A. Schneider of Pittsburgh. His wife and five children have the sympathy of his classmates. I just received word of the death of Corp. Dick Novak on Feb. 27 in Lawson General Hospital in Atlanta. I do not have any particulars. I know you will all regret to hear about Dick's death as he had many friends in our class al­though I believe he received his degree in *29. 
Dr. Frank Hcfcarty. who is now a major, called a few days ago. Frank is here in Washington for a short time taking a course in tropical medicine at the War College. 
Tony Ceres called recently while he was in Washington looking for a commission. Tony is married and is practicing law and teaching in Ferth Amboy, N. J. 
I had a fine letter from Lt. Bob Fogerty from Ellington Field. Texas, where he has been teach­ing in the Bombardier-Navigator Pre-Flight School. Recently he was assigned to teaching in the department of Maps, Charts. Target Identifi­cation and Photo Interpretations. Bob received his Ph.D. in histor>- and government from Minne­sota University in June. Bob mentioned that Clair Blackall. '30, has finished OCS, Anti-Air­craft, at Camp Davis, N. C. He is now Lt. Clair Blackall, Battery K, 613 C. A, (A.A.), Camp Stewart, Ga. 
John Antus, one of our guest writers, came through in fine style with the following: 
"Happy to receive your letter. It brought back to memory some pleasant scenes in our rooms of old Freshman Hall with Willard Wagner, Jim Sexton, Englert, yourself and a host of other hopefuls. 
"Concerning '28ers whose paths I cross in some way from time to time, the following telegraphic notes are available by way of information to friends who might well wonder whatever happened to some of them: 
"Charles "Bud" Topping—A contented married man with a lovely wife and a couple of children. He is with the Johns Manville Corporation. We attended the rally together at the Waldorf before the big game here, along with 
"Frank GacUardi—^Frank. I believe, works with Bud, is not married, and looks fine. He and I closed up the Waldorf that night. With us also were 
"Bernard Garber—and Dorothy, hts charming Mrs. ITiey have bought a fine home in the coun­try, up Mt. Kisco way. have a lovely son, John, all of 10 months old. Bemie commutes to his office off Columbus Circle, and doesn't look a day older than he did back on the campus. He has just heard from 
"Oliver Schell—•who is in the Njivy, a seaman IC, outbound unit at last accounting. He was sta­tioned ' at Great Lakes Naval Training Station. Was voted the most popular among the seamen, w*hich we can understand. I have just visited 
"Howard Ocfas—Howie and Betty, his wife, are ever the gracious host and hostess. E\'ery time I call they send me away refreshed fully. Howie has a war job with the Copper Recovery Corpora­tion, and looks speculatively at anything that passes by in copper, all with a view no doubt to seizing and reducing it to scrap nuggets. 
"Jan. 28, we had a meeting of the Notre Dame 
Club at the Hotel Woodstock, which is practically 
next door to my office here. The first '28er I ran 
into was 
"Larry CuUiney—still the bank examiner, con­
siderably on the road and away from home, the 
father of John Lawrence Culliney who arrived some months ago. We talked like well satisfied fathers about our respective offspring (my item infra) until other members begi^n giving us Queer looks. At the meeting spoke with 
"Jack Lavelle—who objected that there were too many ex-presidents present. He was big enough—his friends will understand—to renounce any mention this time on the ground that he is receiving a spread of publicity in the 'Alumnus* about to come oft the press. At the meeting heard that 
"Bob Hamilton—basketballer and master ar­ranger, is in Miami, connected with Pan Ameri­can Airways. He has taken his wife and children. Heard this was on a temporary assignment and that we may expect htm back eventually. Spoke with 
"Harvey Daly—who is quite loyal in attendance at meetings. He is still his jolly, smiling self, full of vigor and enthusiasm, and helped with in­formation about some of our members. Recently saw 
"John Robinson—of Brdgeport, Conn. John had a lot of fine publicity in the Connecticut papers about a month ago when he was made head of the State Selective Ser%*ice. Before that I under­stand that he was executive assistant to the Gov­ernor. He is the type of political leader we ought to have more of. along with 
"John CttUinan, who is now Judge Cullinan in Bridgeport. John handed down a judicial opinion in a matrimonial case very recently which was publicized widely for its clarity and wisdom. Had a letter from 
"Francis "Nip" Zappone, the close to the cam­pus day-dogger. He went to Washington, D. C . found himself a nice wife, then found himself a job in Spokane. Wash. He is attorney and assist­ant mnnnger of a department with Aetna Insur­ance. They have three lovely children, and Nip is the solid happy citizen. 
"Concerning myself. I am married to Marjorie Lawrence, of Stamford, Conn. Nearly two years now. John Lawrence Antus, our first, was born Dec. 16. All doing well. I live in Stamford, have my law office on 43rd Street. New York. Still teach in Columbia Law School. Law business is good. My book "Law Secretary's Manual" selling well, — in about the fourth printing now. Two brothers in the army, one wants to go to N.D. on return. Hope so." 
Our second guest writer, Ron Rich, gives us up-to-the-minute news about a number of the fel­lows concerning whom we have not had a report in some time. Ron writes: 
"Wayne (Dutch) Ewing, the banker from Weston, O.. is now one of Uncle Sam's sailors. After boot camp at Great Lakes, and some time at the Naval Armory in Chicago, he is now in radio school at Texas A. & M. He is still a bach­elor, as is Tony Benning. Tony is still with du-Pont in Wilmington. I believe officially he is with a subsdiary, Kinchie Chemicals. He has a brother here at N.D. who is a senior chemical engineer. I have seen Tony every year or so since graduation, and he seems to change very little—has as much hair and as little waistline now as then. 
"Charlie Williams has been operating a small plant in Klamath Falls, Ore., for se%'eral years but a letter from him within the last few weeks reveals that he is anxious to get into some ser­ious war work and to that end was diligently put­ting irons in the fire. 
His old sidekick. Hank Persyn, is living in Cranford, N. J. Hank works for the Reilly Tar and Chemical Corp.—^has been with them for sev­eral years. He is married and, I believe, has one youngster. Another Cranfordik is Bob Bannra. I have neither seen nor heard directly from Bob since we left the gym in '28. He is one of those to whom I wrote. I know he's married—but have no other information. 
"The one fellow who has dropped completelT' from sight is big Jae Rcpctti. I've written him several times but have never raised an answer. At our 10-year reunion I saw Tmy Ceres who was one of Joe's good friends and fellow Eastern­ers. He told me he hadn't seen Joe since gradua­tion. If anyone knows anything about the biff lummox. I'd certainly be happy to hear it. 
**Walt Teassunt holds down a very responsible job with Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Corp. in South Charleston. W. Va. He has been in tfaar research department since he got his B(.S. in *29. He is married and has a family, size of which I don't remember. 
"Jade CosKravc, who started with us but finished up in *29, paid his first return visit to alma mater last summer. He has a very nice private consult­ing chemical and biological laboratory in Newark and teaches part-time at Rutgers. 
"Bin MaUn is metallurgist in the feeder engi­neering division of Westinghouse in Pittsburgh. He is married and has quite a family. I haven't seen or heard from him in years and can't give you any more complete dope." 
I saw Sam Rowan* at his home in New Orleans a couple of years ago. Had dinner with him and his charming wife and an opportunity for a good bull-session. Sam is teaching surgery at Tolane' and had just recently become a daddy for the first time. 
Concerning myself, I have been married for several years and have three children, two future Notre Damers and a candidate for "across the road." Last summer I was appointed head of the Department of Chemical Engineering and have been trying to keep my head above water ever since. 
Thanks a lot, John Antas, Bob Ft^erty and Ron Rich for making it possible to give the fel­lows another newsy column. 
With your cooperation, our guest writers for the next issue will be able to keep up the good work. I am expecting the Commerce men to drop a note to Les Carrir, 2116 14th St. Columbus, Nebr., the engineers who failed to answer the letters sent out by Ron Rich should write to him immediately at Notre Dame or to Bbrtin Kinran, 159 N. Hite Ave., Louisville, Ky. The lawyers will be expected to write to Bill Horley, 70 Montrose St., Springfield, Mass., and the A.B. men* to Floyd Searcr» 318 E. South St . South Bend, Ind. If you drop a note at once to one of these guest writers so they can meet the deadline, I assure you they will come through as the others have done all these years. 
1929 
Capt J9m§k P. BfcNamara, 23C E. 15th St. lM«aM»alis, lad. 
Contrihataxs, Jan. 13-BIarch IS 

Joseph S. Angelino, Buffalo: William T. Byrne. San Francisco; Jf^n F. Colangelo, Glevdand; James J. Connor, Elwood. Ind.; John F. Cosgrove, Newark, N. J.; Donald M. Donahne, Batavia, N. Y.: William P. DowdalU Kenmore. N. Y.; Edward 
J. Fahey, St. Paul, Minn.; J. Walter Greer. Alex­andria, Va.; Karl F. Johnson, Kokomo, Ind.; Harcellus C. Kirchner, Memphis; Lt, Donald R. Kreis. South Bend; Arthur J. Lintz, Brighton. 
N. Y.: Aaron W. Mason, Chicago; Lt. Paul C. McElroy, March Field, Calif.; Thomas M. He-Nicholas, Nashville; Fred C. Miller, Milwaukee: George M. Monroe, Freeport. III.: Lt. James C. O'Connor, Jr., New York City; Terrence R. O'Bfal­ley. Grand Rapids, Minn.; James H. Ragen. Jr.. Chicago; Gerald E. Roach, East Grand Rapids. Mich.; Oliver F. Schell, New York City; WilUam 
R. Sidenfaden. Ontario, Calif.; John M. Staek­poole, Detroit; Daniel H. VerilU, Morristown, N. J.: Joseph E. Whalen, Rock Island. III.; Francis L Zappone, Spokane, Wash. 
Larry Maore, according to a card from his mother, is in motion picture laboratory work with the Navy and can be reached as follows: Laurence 
A. Moore, SP (P) 2/c. 2129 F St., N.W., AVash­ington, D. C. 
Dr. Frank Kane, coroner in Binghamton. X. Y., is a lieutenant in the Na\*y and. at last reports. was assigned to an eastern naval hospital. His brother, John, ex. '33. is also a lieutenant in the naval service, and his brother, Jtw. *28, is in the Army. 
1930 
Harold E. Duke, 4030 K. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Contrihutors, Jan. lo-March 15 
Oiarles S. Atchison, Houston, Tex.: Kenneth H. 

Cassidy, New Albany, Ind.; Patrick J. Conway. 
Hyattsville, Md-; Frederick L. Cunningham, Port­
land, Ore.; Lt. William F. Doyle, Bridgeport. 
Conn.; Harold E. Duke, Philadelphia; Laurence 
F. Enright, Waban, Mass.; Pvt, George E. Erwin, New York City; Henry R. Frey, Bronx, N. Y.; John W. Gibbons, Washington, D. C.: Henry E, Hinsenkamp (additional) Plainfield, N. J.; Charles 
F. Klefeker, Newark. N. Y.; Thomas F. Lantry, Tuckahoe. N. Y.; James C. Leahy, *nffin, O.: James E. Leahy, Chicago; Joseph J. Lordi. New Y6rk City; Walter H. Luedtke, Erie. Pa.; James 
A. Malloy, Hollidays Grove, W. Va.; James L. Mc­Donald, Glenview, III.; Thomas E. McDougal, An­tigo. Wis.: John B. HcGee, Kenmore, N. Y.; John 
T. Moran, Oak Park, II!.: George F. O'Malley. Dixon, III.; Arthur E. Peterson, Evanston, 111.; George B. Pope, Bunkie, I.a.; Francis T. Ready, Monroe. Mich.; William A. Reisert, Jr., Louisi-ille; Francis J. Rooney, Bridgeport, Conn.; Albert J. Shipacasse. Cleveland; August T. Sieron. Chica­go; Harold N. Simpson, Oak Park. 111.; Dr. Ger­ald W. Sinnott, Jersey City, N. J.; Raymond J. Spahr, Bainbridge, N. Y.; Fred A. Sprenger (addi­tional) Dallas, Tex.; R. Zeno SUudt. Jr., Wooster, O.; Rudolph E. Sturm, Jasi>er, Ind.; John D. Voss, Chicago; James T. Williamson, Lake Villa, III. From Harold Ihike: 
THE letter of the month is from Frank Amato. It is so interesting and chuck full of news that I quote it as received. Writes Frank: 
". . . TTirough Bob Hellrang's influence, I've again become a member of the St. Louis Club. having attended several of the recent metings. One couldn't mention the St. Ixiuis Club without telling about Boh HeUmng. who is just as active in everything, in and out of the club, as he ever was. Ife has one boy. .. . 
•*Pa«l App wrote to me at Christmas. He oper­ates three liquor stores. He has one child, a girl much cuter than her daddy. Paul is still a hefty 140-pounder. Speaking of Fort Wayne, the thought comes to my mind that I haven't seen Frank Coihett's name in print. Where are you hiding, orator T ^e n also I wonder why we don't hear something about hibernated Robert (Rink) Peqniffnot who was quietly entrenched in Elk­liart, or was when I last visited hira. 
"Jim McDonald, who now lives in Glenview. III., is a partner in Hallenscheid & McDonald, a bathroom accessories manufacturing firm (you owe me a steak dinner for the plug. Mac) which is suflfering for the lack of materials. Mac has three children. He also has a whale of a big back yard, so he will be able both to keep the Idds out of mischief and raise a big Victory garden by combining the two projects. He sent me a card the other day, and that was the first I've heard from him since I was in Chi last fall. 
"Larry Enright lived close to Mac at Deerfield, III., but ^ he was transferred to Boston by his firm, IMctaphone. He has two daughters. Why don't you send me an acknowledgement or some kind of word, so that I'll know you're alive, Larry? 
Th Notre Dame Alumnus 
"Ed Yorke wrote me a while back, notifying? me that he had joined up with Uncle Sam as u medico. He is now Lt. at Station Hospital. Fort Jackson, S. C. He sent some pictures of himself and Ed Conroy that were taken when the two were visiting each other. Conroy is in the Na\-y­What's your rank, Ed ? 
"Yours truly is the proud father of four chil­dren—two boys and two girls. All live wires. 
"2nd Lt. Frank Downs, the Oak Park insurance executive, is executiving with Uncle Sam. He is the supply officer for the 19th Academic Squad­ron. Scott Held, Hi. He's been married a little more than a year and reports that he has one child. I had a 'phone conversation with him and expect to see him as soon as he returns from his present leave. When he gets back he'll probably have some news of the Chicagoans of our class and if he is too busy to write, I'll act as bis ghost writer to convey the dope. Maybe we'll hear something about Dick Savage, Bob Savace, Bill Bromann, Art Peterson, Pan! Heidkamp, and other fellows we don't hear about. We ought to be able to fill column after column in the 'Alum­nus* about 'SOites. Let's see if we can't arouse some interest and get the fellows to cooperate with the secretary. All the past secretaries did a fine job, but we didn't furnish them with enough items to write about. [Thanks, Frank, for this boost.] 
"Jack Sigler is still in Atlantic. la., judging by the Christmas card we received from him. I wonder where Bode Sladc is? 
"Last year I wrote your old roommate Fltz— Laurence Fitzsimmons—a card but he ignored me. Wait until the '45 reunion rolls around and I'll show him how to hold a pen or pencil. 
"If any of the fellows are shipped to Jefferson Barracks or Scott Field tell them to call me." 
Thanks, Frank, for a swell job of rex>orting. 

Chet Ashman writes that he has been with the cost department of the Tennessee Valley Authority but received induction orders for the Army and expected to leave with his wife for Los Angeles. He contemplated seeing Dong Daley at L.A. Swell to hear from you. Chet, and let us know where you can be reached. 
Mike Bishko \v-rites that he is doing credit and collection work with American Oxygen Service Corporation at Harrison, N. J. Mike is the proud father of a boy, two years old. He reports run­ning into Joe Ahbott, who is assistant personnel manager of the International Telephone ic Radio Mfg. Corp. in East Newark. Also mentioned re­ceiving a card from Ed Arthur, who at that time was stationed at Fort Riley, Kansas, but was ex­pecting to be moved shortly. 
Bill Clear came through nicely with the fol­lowing: "Your 'SOS' was a pleasant surprise. 1939 seems such a' long time ago—when we met on the train. Looking back, I realize how remiss I've been, not keeping in touch with you and others of our class whom I've seen at various times. But for the news as I know it—John Haff­man is in the Army. He enlisted-last November and is now at Camp Pickett. Va. Just before en­listing, John became engaged to Miss Mary Mar­gaurite Flannigan of Pittsburgh. John hitd been working for some time in the Ordnance Depart­ment. He is now a corporal. [Congrats, Johnny.] 
"You of course remember Pat Conway from Warren. O. Well, I've seen and talked with Pat many times in the past eight or nine years. He was head coach at La Salle Prep School at Cum­berland, Md. Our local Catholic high school, on whose Athletic Association I've been privileged to be a member since its start in 1930. has had ath­letic relations with LaSalle, and Pat and I always got together when his teams played here in Al­toona. However. P^t is now in the Navy. 
"As for myself, I'm managing a young men's and boys* clothing department. I have been mar­ried since 1936, and we have a grand little boy. Bill, Jr., 19 months old. I'll not start talking about him because I never know when to stop. We live in a suburb of Altoona, and at the present time am planning my Victory garden—^which is one way of keeping my waist line within bounds." 
I have a letter addressed to Frank Finnegan re­turned with a notation that he is in the armed forces. Let us hear as to where you are and what you are doing, Frank. 
Another returned communication sent to the Kankakee Flash. Ed HaBoran, was forwarded to various points including Urbana, 111., and Rich­mond. Va. If this catches up with you, Ed. give us the latest, 
Ed Sweeney forwarded a note which was re­ceived just before this rei>ort was closed. It is now SgU Sweeney of the Headquarters Company at Jackson, Miss. Ed advises that he has been an in­structor in Administration since going there last September. According to Ed, he will still take the good old Utica climate in preference to the Sunny South. 
Bemie Conroy writes from 435 Charles Ave., New Kensington, Pa.: "The latest news from Tom Canningham is that he is now a lieutenant and is located in London. His address is 0-1637250, 

A.P.O. 887, c/o Postmaster. New York City. I am now working for the Aluminum Company as an industrial engineer. Things are going well and we are breaking all records getting the metal out. Can Carey sent me a Christmas card and said he is up for reelection as judge this year. He sees T<HB Lantry now and then." 
A recent news note confirms what has probably been said here before—that Howard J. Smith is athletic director of Mt. St. Michael's High School in the Bronx, New York City. 
Jiai Bartlcy has been assigned as assistant Red Cross field director at Camp McQuaide. Watson-ville. Calif. Jim received his M.A. at Notre Dame in 1936. 
DeTcre Plnnkett, associate professor of history, was in February commissioned a second lieutenant in the Army Air Corps and assigned to Miami Beach for training. A teacher at Notre Dame since 1930, Devere will also do teaching in the Air Corps. His wife and two children are remain­ing in South Bend for the present. 
Tim Toomey has temporarily transferred his abode from the Great White Way to the Whittle Springs Hotel. Knoxville, Tenn., where he is in charge of a claim office opened by his company. the Royal Indemnity. And the boy. according to his recent letter, misses the bright lights, espe­cially those that shine 'round about the New York City N.D. Club. The Smoky Mountains are all right in their way, sez he, but there isn't a N.D. alumnus in Knoxville or within 50 miles of the place, and Toomey, the erstwhile most able secre­tary of the N.Y. Club, just doesn't feel at home unless 200 alumni are - demanding Army tickets. How^bout-aJetter. to -the -boy ? 
1931£^ 
•osui. tas B. Cdfax An^ SMih 
Cantribaton, Jan. I5-Hareh 15 

Howard C. Beasley, Chicago; Ellis T. Blom­strom, Eeyport, Wasli.; Raymond F. Ckinnora, Great Barrinston, Uass.; Charles B. Cuahwa. Jr., YoanKstown, O.; Joseph F. Deeb, Grand Rapids, Midh.: William R. Desenbere. Buchanan, Hich.; Joseph R. Donlan, Oak Piark, III.; Edward C. Ellsworth, Brooklyn; Cirl A. Gaensslen, Pueblo. Colo.: James B. Gallagher, Haywood, N. J.: Rob­ert H. Gore; Chicago; Charles F. Hancock, Jeff^r­aonville, Ind.; J. Hudson Hausmann, Dumont, N. J.: Erston H. Herzog, Baltimore, Md.: Joseph J. Keamejr, BnlTalo; Leo J. Kletzly, Wheeling, W. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Va.; Charles W. LODK. Auburn. N. Y.: Daniel 
B. MeCarUn. Hffin. O.; Arthur T. McHanmon, Bfiston; Bert L. Hetzger. Chicago; Maurice D. Mulrey* Indianapolis; James W. Hurray. Batavia. 
N. Y.: Robert L. Neydon. Grosse Pointe. Mich.: Lt. James J. O'Brien. Chicago: Henry G. O'Con­nell. Skokie. III.; Tierney A. O'Rourke. Jackson Hgts.. N. Y.; Bartholomew T. O'Shea. Ilion. N. Y.; Lt. John G. Radosevich. Chicago; George A. Richter, New Hartford, N Y.; Joseph H. Robin­son. Waterbury, Conn.; Henry J. Roehl, Belling-ham. Wash.; Bernard E. Thompson, Chicago; Kenneth D. Tohulka. Minneapolis: Albert J. Tuohy. Washington. D. C.: Frank C. Wachsmuth. New York Oty; Leland S. Walker, Niles. Mich.: John O. Weibler. River Forest. 111. 
Sun-Telegraph 
February 10. 194-3 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 

Dear John: 
Thanks for the nice letter. I tried to write the words on Gearc« Wassell that you requested more than once before now hut I just couldn't do it.' I can't explain the psychological barrier, but every time I sat down to the t>T>ewriter to get it done my mind just blacked-out. 
An ironic recollection came to me in thinking back over our days at Notre Dame. And I'm sure that others of the class of *.tl will think of it, too. 
In old Sophomore Hall, when George was a chunky, grinning kid, looking much younger than the boys about him. he developed a sudden pas­sion for airplanes. He bought all the aeronautical books and magazines he could lay his hands on and talked on the subject so much that it became a daily routine in the hall to cry. "Wassell. Was-sell—^here comes a plane" every time the old mail ship passed over the Golden Dome. 
George's plane hobby subsided, however, when he set his course for an M.D. And I belie\*e he would have forgotten it had not the war turned him in­evitably to the skies, to a brief but notable career as the flight surgeon of a Flying Fortress squad­ron, and to his tragic death in a crash in the British Isles. 
I say he turned inevitably to the skies because he had found his first months in the Army Medi­cal Corps unbearably routine and unexciting. And Wassell was one man who could not stand the easy life. 
I recall that he quit his A.B. course at Notre Dame because he couldn't find enough problems to challenge his scientific and technical mind. He turned to science and found delight in roaming* through the "ology" fields that are still un­charted territories to guys like you and me. 
He took his medicine at the University of St. Louis and then came back to Pittsburgh for a residency at a hospital here. And I well remem­ber his grumbling over the restraints of conser­vatism that this conservative town imposes on medical practice. 
He wanted outlets for his imagination and tests of his skill and challenges to his learning. 
And I know that when he folded up his prac­tice in Sharon, Pa., where he had settled and prospered, he went into the army with eager hopes for new exploration and research and ex­perience to occupy that busy intellect and restless heart of his. 
So it was inevitable that he seek out air service. And it was inevitable that he meet the extremely high qualifications for the work. 
They were brave, happy days he had before he met his death Inst October. He had flown thou­sands of miles, criss-crossing the country from coast to coast. He had worked and studied and met all the requirements to go on duty in an active war zone. 
He got his orders to go abroad. His parents joined him in New York for a final few days with him. They bade him farewell and a week later George was dead. 
.. . I can believe that George's death was a seri­ous loss to our Air Force in England. I imagine that at that time, and even now. we have few. men trained in the scientific specialty which he stud­ied. And I'm sure he was on the road to a bril­liant career when fate intervened in the sides over England. 
There will be memories of George Wassell as a 
Kood friend and as a war hero with me the 
rest of my life—and prayers for him, too. He 
was a fine Notre Dame gentleman, a devoted doc­
tor and a brave American. 
Dick O'DenncIl 

Lt. (j. g.) Tom Ashe was a campus visitor not long ago enroute to his new station in New York. Tom had given up his sales promotion job in Los Angeles for the duration and was to complete his naval course in New York before being sent to sea duty. A chronic knee injury has forced Al Culver out of military service so he has returned to the insurance business in Chicago. CMHSB O'Shanchnessy is now with the Stanley Brass Works in New Britain. Conn. 
Paul Hinridis. who was a member of the '31 
class for a year, i^ purchasing agent and comp­
troller of the Midwest Manufacturing Company, 
Galesburg, III. Hobie Shean postcards that he is 
a lieutenant (j.g.) in the U.S.N.R. At the time 
of his writing he was stationed in Bermuda. 
In case you haven't noticed it elsewhere in the 
magazine, the present address is Lievt, <j^.) 
Frank J. McAdams, Jr., Amphibious Forces, 
N.O.B. Norfolk, Va. Spike left his law business and three children in Chicago to join up. and went to Princeton for training. There he generously compiled a list of all the N.D. men in his train­ing class—there were 14 of them—and sent it to the Alumni Oflice. Spike said that Lievt. (J.ff.) Charlie Medland was an instructor in navigation at Princeton. 
It's Lieut, (j.g.) G. J. BaU, USNR, Destroyer 
Base. Ship Repair Unit, San Diego. Calif. Jerry 
was commissioned on July 4. 1942, and trained at 
Newport. R. I., according to his letter to Jelin 
Bcrgan. 
Still another lieutenant (j.g.) is Frank Baterac. 
who is assigned as physical director to the Navy's 
machinist mate school at the University of Kan­
sas. Before his commission came through. Frank 
was a non-commissioned ofiicer in the N.D. Navy 
School. 
Sister M- Agnes Cecile, C.9.C., writes from St. Mary's that two alumni-brothers are in military service. When she wrote, Vincent Midiael Tcfcn, *:J1, was a lieutenant (j.g.) and stationed with the Navy in the Alaskan area. S/Sgt. Bab Tcdcrs, ex. '34, was at Fort Logan, Colo. 
1932 
Lt. Jmmes K. CotUns. 1113 Muicilestcr Ave. Norfolk. Va. 
Contribntors, Jan. 13-Marcii 15 Georse A. Arehart, Lowell. Mich.; Hush E. Ball, Lakewood. O.: William B. Bernini. Bee-ville. Tex.; James A. Bosco. Lawrencebors:, Ind.; Raymond P. Boyce. Morristown, N. J.; Ensign William P. Cass. Jr.. Buffalo: Daniel F. Cassidy. Poughkeepsie. N. Y.; Norbert J. Ghnstman. Green Bay, Wis.: Paul D. Clark. Florence, N. Y.: Wil­liam R. Conaton. New York City; Leonard W. Condon, Rockford. III.: Roser P. CumminEs, Los Angeles; Stanley J. Czapalsld (additional) Chica­go ; Dr. Robert E. Donovan, Belmont, Hassl; Jo­seph J. Dunn, Snyder, N. Y.; Francis R. Ernest. Chicago; Lt. Joseph H. Ewing. Camp Robinson, Ark.; Thomas P. Feely, Honolulu, T. H.; John R. Fox. Chicago; Jackson Candour. Sisterville, W. Va.; Hubert J. Clancy, Utica, N. Y.; Henry C. Johnson, Washington, D. C.; Joseph E. Kennedy. New Haven. Ctann.; Walter A. Kiolbasa, Chicaso: 
J. Regis Kuhn. Youngwood. Pa. Thomas M. HcGinnis. Bardstown, Ky.; Tliomas 
L. MeKevitt. Silver Spring. Md.: WUliaa K. Hooney. Naw York City; Eugene J. Honaii. Faw­toeket. R. L : Frands L. Morrvr. Battle Ciw*. Mich.; Cpl. Stanley C. Obelenm. Caap Ke6qr. Wis.: Edward A. Olblley. Dixon, m.: Thorns 
A. OlUUer. Sooth Bend: Vincent D. VHtO. Hy­annis, Mass.; Herbert W. Pfetiel. New York CHy: Christopher A. Reilhr. Ttaaon, Aria.: Saanel J. Rinella. Kewanee. IIL; Richard T. Roney. New York City: Benjamin B. Salvaty, Jr.. ChicMo: Capt. John M. Scankm. Camp Browder, Mo.: James W. Simmons, Jr, Dallas, Tex.: Sgt. Jo­seph P. Sitek. Detroit: John J. Stannton. May-wood. 111.: Richard T. Sullivan. Rochester. N. Y.: Walter E. Terry, Baraboo. Wis.: Lt. CSfril C. Theisen. Fort McClellan. Ala.: Vance N. Uhl­meyer. Rock Island. IIL; Ivo A. Vmhoefer. Marsh-field. Wis.; Clinton H. Watson, Washington. D. G.: William G. Weir. Brooklyn; Alfred B. White. Mnrrysville; Pa.; Pvt. Edvrard A. White. MitdiA 
S. D.: Edmund N. Yeager. Napoleon. O.; Gcorae Zimmerman. ITtica, N. Y. From Jim CMUas: 
I had quite a surprise about ten days ago when I walked into the Offleers* Club at the Base and ran into Jafai Knuner. '32. in the uni­form of a lieutenant (j.g.) He has been in the Navy since last fall, and took hU indoctrination at Princeton. He is in the Amphibious Force and is slated to be executive officer on a new hush hush type of ship. His present address is Am­phibious Base. Solomons Island. Md. 
This was the first time I had seen him in about seven years, so we had plenty to reminisce ahont —all the way from S.A.C. fenagling to the Stevens and back. 
John's brother. LclaMi "Bud" Kramer. "34. was also here for that week-<nd. so it was an all-around reunion. Bud is on a mine sweeper on duty out of this base, and has been in the Navy since last spring. He is also a lieutenant (i.».) and is one of those fortunate ones who took his indoctrination on the campus. 
Fete Streh writes from Camp Stewart. Ga.. that he was commissioned on Jan. 15. and is now in an anti-aircraft unit at that fiehL This unit is comprised of college men from all parts of the country who are former reserve oflicers. He says he found out the first day that he is no longer 21 years old. 
I had a swell letter from Jae Kennedy a short time ago—the first he is guilty of writing since he used to write home for a cheek. He is chief interviewer for the V.S. Employment Service in New Haven and says he is working day and ni^t. He is nurried and has s dan^ter two and one-half years old. He is president of the Knights of Columbus glee club and can still hit the hi ^ i 
Joe also said that be had been with Ed i . ancy some time ago, having met him at a wake. 
Ed is married, and has one child. He is with the 
Jenkins Company in Bridgeport. Conn. Gka "Bad" 
McDeMagh, whom I last saw heading hade to 
Iowa, is with the FBI in New Haven. Joe is won­
dering what has become of Bcraic Hcila. 
Charley Hitidkigcr did me the great favor of 
writing this month, and I say great favi» re­
servedly. He is working 11 ^ hours a day making 
.50 caliber machine guns, which does not give 
him much time for corxcspondence. He went into 
defense work last November after getting a feav* 
of absence from his work of the last few years 
of coal selling. 11% hours a day to a coal sales­
man is a lot of hours but he says he is getting 
used to it. 
He writes that Bank Dauhy weighs 175 pounds. 
has three swell children, and is operating a rca­
aurant in Utica. Wee Rarriactaa is practicing law 
in Carteret. N. J., is married, and has two fin* 
boys. Al Stewart recently took an appoiniacat 
with the FBI and waa transferred to the Wert 
Ctaast. Dan MaOay is living in Clyde; N. T.. wkan 
he is the postmaster. He is married and has two 
children. i 
To get back to the bachelor's section. I had a letter from Baden Powell in which he said that he was on his way to the Navy Training School at Harvard, having been commissioned a lieutenant (j.g.)- Unfortunately, we just missed each other in Norfolk when he was here. He has been in the Na\*y for over a year, having been a yeoman, first class, when commissioned. 
Jack Jordan is back in his beloved Bronx after si>ending some time in Washington. He is a spe­cial attorney in the Condemnation Division of the Department of Justice, and spends most of his time in the work of acquiring military sites. 
Jack's office is in Brooklyn but he says tliat the only member of the class that he ever sees around there is Eddie O'Connor. He says that Frank O'Kane is a corporal in the post ofhce at Camp Beale. Calif., 13th Armored Division, APO 
263. Paul Howe is still a specialist with the Quar­termaster Corps of the Army Engineers stationed in Philadelphia. Bill Hall is in the steel business in Buffalo and doing very well in that he is con­tracting for defense plants in all parts of the country. 
Jack also said that he saw JIM; Holbrook who says he (Joe) and Frank Madden were each plan­ning to be married soon. Joe sees Smoky Coyne quite regularly in Pittsburgh. Ed Koontz writes that all is well in Asheville. 

Our deepest sympathy is extended to Charlie QaiRlej- whose wife has been seriously ill. Charlie and Ted Halpin still get together every time Ted's paint business takes him to Richmond. 
I often see alumni from other clashes around the Naval Base here, among them Charlie Mor­risson, Johnny Broderick, Jack Yaegcr and others. 
As for me, I moved my family to Norfolk last month and manage to be home Jilmost every week, at least for a day. I have been instructing communications officers on the various ships of the Amphibious Force and this keeps me at sea most of the time. It is very interesting work, and I sometimes feel that I am reversing Jack Lon­don's description of "Sailor on Horseback." 
Cpl. Stan Obelenns wrote a couple of months a^o from Camp McCoy, Wis., to which "winter wonderland" (quoting him) he had been trans­ferred after maneuvers in Tennessee. Sez he. "The NJ). 'Alumnus* is sure a welcome jiiece of mail nowadays." Thanks, pal. A lot of the boys seem to go for the rag in these war days. Guess rationing makes them stay home and read. 
In case you missed it in the Denver Club news in the February issue: Bart O'Hara, one of the most active members of the club, was appointed assistant United States district attorney for Col­orado. Bart had been practicing law in Denver and was legal assistant to the public administrator. He is married and the father of two children. 
Frank O'Malley, the possessor of a large and growing reputation as a writer, editor and speak­er, recently began a series of seven lectures on contemporary Catholic literature before the facul­ty and students of St. Mary's College. Notre Dame. Besides conducting some of the most popular English courses on the campus and assisting in the production .of "Scrip," Frank gives, generously of his time and talents as associate editor of and a principal writer for "The Review of Politics," published at Notre Dame under the editorship of Dr. Waldemar Gurian. The "Review" in the few years since its beginning has won world-wide ac­claim in scholarly circles. 
Reffis Kohn (father of John Regis Kuhn. II, on Feb. 22) is with the Robertshaw Thermostat Co., Youngwood, Pa., as assistant purchasing agent, and likes the company and the job. There ere two other young Kuhns, both feminine. 
A V-mail note came in not long ago from Sgt. Bay Geiffer, who is somewhere in the South­west Pacific. His address is Hdqs., I Corps, A.P.O. 3U1. c/o Postmaster, San Francisco. 
2ND LIEUT. KOBERT C. STREB, *32 
Pete is with the Coast Artillery Anti-Aircraft and has been in special training at various points since he reported for duty on Jan. 13. i 
Fn>nk lucn was promoted from first lieutenant to captain in the Quartermaster Corps, effective Feb. 1.5. He is stationed in the Kansas City Quartermaster Depot as chief of the fiscal branch of the administrative division. With his wife and two children be resides at 7421 Jarboe, K. C , Mo. Before he entered the ser\'ice on Feb. 24, 1942, Frank was an attorney for the Central Surety Insurance Company, K. C. 
Lieut. (j.R.) Joe Petritz is leading his class At Princeton, scouts report. 
1933 
Ticfae Woods, 7944 Ellis Ave.» ChicaEO, 111. 

Contributors, Jan. 15-March 15 George E. Aug, Cincinnati: Fred Becklenberg, Jr.. Chicago; Michael J. Besso, Springfield, III.; John F. Boespfiug, Seattle: Paul F. Boehm, South Bend: Lt. Paul J. Boyle, Washington, D. C.: John 
B. Brinker, Covington, Ky.; John K. Carnes, Cin­cinnati ; Capt, John F. Gary, M.D., Camp White, Ore.; Francis R. Cawley, Arlington, Va.; Louis 
E. Chawgo, Qiicago; Lt. Edward A. Cogley, Jr., Oak Park, III.; John M. Crimmins, Pittsburgh; Edward W. Dailey, Burlington, la.; Bernard H. DeLay, Norfolk, Nebr.; Maurice J. DeWald. Fort Wayne, Ind.; James F. Doyle, St. Catherines, Ont.: Donald E. Draper, Chicago: Charles L. Farris, Dallas, Tex.; John J. Galla, Bridgeport, Conn.: Herbert P. Giorgio, Flushing, N. Y.; Ed­ward T. Gough. Cleveland; Lt. William M. Hawkcs, Anacostia, D. C.; Stephen L. Hornyak, Chicago; Thomas A. Hughen, Houston, Tex.; Samuel Y. Hyde, Elmhurst, N. Y.; Francis H. Joseph, Hackensack. N. J.; John R. Joyce, Chi­cago : Richard J. Klohr, Clayton, Mo.; Edwin S. Kosky, Chapel Hill, N. C.: Edward F. Lottes, Perryville, Mo. 
James F, McGill, Fort Wayne. Ind.: William 

H. Mitsch. Wheeling. W. Va.; Dr. Maurice F. Mulville, Norfolk, Conn.; John R. Murray, Cedar Rapids, la.: Capt. Raymond J. Naber, Louisville; Allison J. O'Brien, Westlake, O.; John F. ptck. Chestnut Hill, Mass.; John V. Quinlan, Soperton, Wis.; Clare L. Randolph, Detroit: Charles M. Ryan. Emery, S. Dak.; Victor J. Schaeffner, Grosse Pointe, Mich.; Paul H. Seaman. Middle-port, N. Y.; John F. Sloan. Jr.. Peoria. III.; Law­rence C. Simmons. Ossining, N. Y.; Carroll A. Staley, Milwaukee: F. Seton Staley, Hamilton. O.; Edmund A. Stephan. Rockville Centre, N. Y.; Austin F. Sullivan, New Haven. Conn.; James 
E. Uprichard, Cleveland; Karl L. Vogelheim. Rogers City, Mich.; Edward Tighe Woods. Chi­cago. 
It's Lieut, (j-sr.) Edward A. Copley, U.S.N.A.­T.B., Solomons Branch, Washington, D.C. Ed got his training at Princeton. When he entered the ser\'ice he was merchandise control manager at Sears, Roebuck & Co., Chicago. 
Dr. Bob Donovan is in practice at 430 Common 
St. Belmont, Mass. 
Art Becvar is in Fort Wayne, Ind., as an ord­
nance inspector, having moved from Cleveland. 
Norm Duke is a lieutenant (j.g.) in the deck volunteer class. He took his first training at Dartmouth and was to go to Princeton on March 11 for further instruction. Norm said that Don Ryan, *32, was on the staff at Dartmouth and that Baden Po«'cll, *32. was, like Norm, a student offi­cer there. 
1934 
Joseph R. Glennon. Jr.. Brook Manor, Pleasantville. N. Y. 
Contributors. Jan. 15-March 13 
Harry M. Burchell, East Greenwich, R. I.: 
John C. Burke. Waupun. Wis.: Joseph A. Caul­
field. Kansas City. Mo.: John E. Clauder (addi­
tional) Milwaukee: Thomas P. Daly, Crnnford, 
N. J.; Lt. Allen G. Farrell. Camp Lockett. Calif.: Michael A. Feeney. Pulaski, Tenn.; Lt. Salvatore 
T. Ferrari. M.D., Fort Dix, N. J.; Vincent G. Fransioli. Rockford, 111; Paul W. Gallagher. Gar­ner, la.: James H. Glenson, Lima, N. Y.; John 
P. Gorman, Oak Park, III.: William W. Green, Corpus Christi, Tex.; Lowell L. Hagan, Mexico. Mo.; John J. Hanley, Medford. Mass.; John C. Hayes. Chicago: David B. Hennessy. Rochester. 
N. Y.; Emmett J. Holland, Chicago; Joseph E. Horrigan, Seattle; Robert K. Kelley, La Porte, Ind.: J. Walter Kennedy, Stamford, Conn.; John 
E. Kiple, Chicago; Robert J. Kolb. Akron. O.; John W. Kroeger, Philadelphia: John B. Land, Upper Darby, Fa.; William F. Lewis. Riverside. III. 
John J. McLaughlin. Cumberland Hill. R. I.; Sgt. Melvin G. Meyers, Camp Chaffee. Ark.; Ray­mond J. Morrissey, Delavan, Wis.; Richard W. Mullen, Los Angeles; James C. Munn, Rochester, 
N. Y.; Edward J. O'Brien, Jr.. Pittsburgh; James J. O'Brien. Pittsfield. Mass.; Thomas H. O'Melia, Fulton, Ala.; John F. Pavlick. Jr., East Pittsburgh, Pa.; Pvt, Edmund P. Philbin. Arch-bald. Pa.: Anthony J. Pugliese. Bronx. N. Y.; Albert E. Saleh. Louisville; Norbert J. Schenkel, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Joseph A. Smith. Indianapolis; Francis J. Toomey. Utica, N. Y.: A. Francis Vitt, Chicago: David M. Walsh, Jr., Clarion, Ph.; Rob­ert E. Ward. Chillicothe. III.; Michael F. Wiedl. Atlanta, Ga.; Carl E. Zimmerer, Louisville. 
Joe Glennon has generously agreed to take over the *34 duties for Lieut. CahilL He comes through nobly as follows: 
Now that Bob. our most able secretary, has been called to arms (and congratulations to him) you have inherited a new reporter. To live up to both Jim Moacow's and Bob's reputation will require a good deal of support from all of you, the majority of whom I have not seen or heard from since that hot week-end in 19.34. Don't hesitate to write and tell us of yourselves and of the other members of the class. 
TTiis fall at nearby Maryknoll I had a brief visit with Bidiop O'Hara who was looking as chipper as ever. 
Ran into Ensign Mike Fox and Mrs. Fox in town some time ago. Panl Laframbois became a father for the third time this January. He has one 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
girl and two future Notre Dame men. Paul has been living in Quebec for some years. 
Gerry Farrell w-as graduated with a cavalry unit this January from Fort Riley, Kans. Know­ing Gerry is in there pitching gives one, confi­dence. Met the Conway brothers. Dr. Bill and Steve, *37, also their attractive wives, at Cava­naugh's after the Army-Notre Dame game. They were looking very well. Hear from Nick Gamboa of Cuba every New Year's. He is a lawyer prac­ticing in home territory and doing well. 
John Glcason has been stcpped-up to manager of Loeser's Department Store, Garden City, N. Y.. branch. He is married and has one daughter. Re­ceived a V-letter from Jim Hallalian, ex. '34. Be­lieve it was from northern Ireland. Ed "Sleepy" McCarthy, ex. *3-l, is in the Engineering Corps. When last heard from he was in California honey­mooning. 
The campus reports that Bob Cahill is still at Harvard and will be there until June 1 because he got in the way of a case of pneumonia and was in the hosjiital for three weeks. The result was that he had to drop back a class in his naval studies. He's all recovered in health for­tunately. 
Congratulations from the chiss to Ed Krause who did a swell job at the end of the basketball season as successor to the late Gjorge Keofan. The team's victory over Great L:ikes in the sec­ond last game of the season was as one of those super Notre Dame accomplishments. 
As for myself, I was marrieci in June, 1936, to the same Kath whom many of you met at the Senior Ball. We have two children. Joseph 3rd ("Nibs") Notre Dame, *G2, and Kate Holley who learned to walk last month. I have been with Commercial Solvents Corp. since July, 1934, and spent two years in Terre Hnute. Ind., one in Jer­sey, five in Boston, and a year in New York. We are busy now passing ammunition in the form of alcohol, acetone, etc. 
From Gene BUsh. the Denver super operator, comes this *34 news: 
"Chicago's Bob Hanley. after shuttling back and forth between Fort Sheridan and Sheppard Field, landed at Sioux Falls. S. D., Air Base, writes: 'I have been classified as a radio operator and mechanic and been training for the past three months and should finish here sometime in April. The weather here has been plenty tough; the temperature as low as 45 degrees below and plenty of snow. I hear from Dick Mullen, whose home is in Sioux Falls, and I have had several nice visits with his folks; also Bob Kamensky, who, by the way, is a new father of a baby girl. Both Dick and Bob live in Oilifornia.' 
"From far off India, we heard from Ted Ga­breski, a major, no less!, in the Army Medical Corps. Says things are going fine for him, but would welcome some letters from his N.D. buddies. Address: SOS. Base Sec. No. 1. APO S8G, New-York City. 
**Ed Mansfield is mid-way through his officer's training at the U.S. Signal Corpt, Fort Mon­mouth, N. J. Ed's due for his well-earne<l commis­sion on April 24. John O'Hanlon. now a first lieutenant. left Fort Monmouth just before Ed arrived there from Sioux Falls and Atlantic City. 
"SySgt- Gil Coyne is with the Force Hti. Co.. Procurement Section, APO 913. San Francisco; but other than that didn't give us any idea as to his location. Says that Jim Murphy. '34. is with his outfit as a captain in the medical corps. 
"Art Sandusky has been with the Troop Carrier Command at Stout Field, Indianapolis, but when he wrote he was awaiting his call to Military In­telligence officer's school." 
From BiU Green, Corpus Christi, comes word that things in Texas and with the Greens are in hand. "Ensiffn Gcorce Kerwin, '38, sings in our choir, besides taking care of his naval duties in these parts," Bill says. . . . "My brother Jerry, '39, is an aviation cadet at Enid, Okla.. and my brother Tom, in Minneapolis, is the proud papa of twins (last October), bringing h b total of young 'uns to five." 
Dick Tobin, Rochester, N. Y., is employed in research development and production work with the Beech-Nut Packing Co., has been given a leave of absence by the company to become a field supervisor for the War Department, specifically engaging in the dehydration of foods for the 
U.S. Army Quartermaster Corps. On March 5 Dick spoke over WGY, Schenectady, on the sub­ject. "Food—Dry as a Bone—but Better." His talk was featured on the General Electric Farm Forum. 
It's Lieut, (j.sr.) Francis W. Honerfcamp. Junior 
B.O.Q., S-3, Naval Air Station, Norfolk. Va. 
Frank was married on April 11 last to Ruth He-
Manus of Brooklyn. He entered the Navy on Nov. 
15 and reported to the Naval Aircraft Factory in 
Philadelphia. On Jan. 31 he was ordered to his 
present post, where he is on the staff of the sup-
l>ly officer. 
Walt Kennedy comes through handsomely for 
'34, as witness: 
"My new home address is 383 Oaklawn Ave., StamfonI, Conn. My new business address, and also my new position since last September, is in the editorial department of Loyola University Press. 3441 N. Ashland Ave.. Chicago, III. I am their eastern representjitive. 
"On January 16, 1943. the Kennedys had a new-son, y-clept Robert Francis, weighing 8 lbs. 2 ounces. This makes two sons, the other being 16 months, named David Michael. Incidentally. Dr. Thomas Cody, Nev.- Canan. class of 1931. was the attendant deliverer. 
"At the Notre Dame-NYU game I had a long talk with Lieut. Robert Cahill. (my how formal that guy makes you feel w*hen you see him in uniform.) and also Charley Qninn, both of the same '34 gang. Cahill looks handsome as Ameche in the blue, although a bit peaked because of the tough strain of studying at Harvard. His wife, Mary, seemed glad to see the bright lights of Broadway. . . . Quinn. as usual, looked prosper­ous, although since he is in the oil business, one wonders how he manages to do so. He had his old seat on the bench, taking care of the spare balls, and soothing poor Georse Keof[an*s feelings when­ever Pat Kennedy called a bad one. Charley has had the same seat since the winter of 1933, thus making himself a 10-year man." 
In case you miss the note elsewhere, you ought to be told here that Bob Halpin, ex. '34. is Sgt. Robert H. Halpin. No. 135151, with the Royal Canadian Air Force attached to the Royal Air Force. Bob wrote on Jan. 20 from England that he had been in the RCAF since September, 1941, and was then a pilot in the Bomber Command. "Interesting work," to quote him. 
Dr. John Kavanangh, who was at N.D. in 1930­31 from Portland. Ore., is temporarily connected with the Union Memorial Hospital. Baltimore, Hd. 
1935 
Franklyn C. Hochreiter, 340 Rowdale Ave., St. Louis, Ho. 
Contributors, Jan. 13-Marcfa 13 

John A. Baker, Lexington, Ky.: Lt. Clyde C. Batcheller. Elba, N. Y. John J. Besinger, Bu­chanan, Mich.; Ensign Edward A. Bracken. • Brooklyn; John R. Braymer, Bartlesville, Okla.; Dr. Edward A. Bried, Wilmington, Del.; Frederic 
R. Brookmeyer, Chicago; Clare B. Burger. San­dusky, O.; William M. Coen. Afton, la.; Arthur 
L. Conrad. Chicago; James R. Cronin, Chicago: Anthony W. Crowley, Salem, HI.; Thomas F. Gal­lagher. New York City; James J. Glenn. Whiting, Ind.: Sgt. William G. HofTert. San Francisco; John F. Holahan. Lancaster. Pa.: George L. Is­selmann, Bronxville, N. Y.: Wade P. Kelleher, Chicago; Robert J. Klaiber, Lerooyne, Pa.; Wil­liam J. Klizna, New York C^ty; Tobias Kramer. Montclair. N. J.; Pfc. George P. Kmg. New York City: G. Albert Lawton, Lakewood. O. 
Francis G. Matavovsky, Chicago; Anthony J. Mulvaney, Royal Oak, Mich.; Bernard H. O'Brien, Chicago; William J. O'Connor, Hilwankce; WU­liam J. Otte, Coldwater, C ; Lt. August P. Pe­trillo, Mt. Vernon, N. Y.; Thomas G. Proctor. Elkhart, Ind.; Roland Rouleau, Peoria, 111.: Roceo 
V. Schiralli, Gary. Ind.: Dr. Roy O. Scholz, Balti­more ; Robert E. Shanahan, Williamsport. Pa.; Thomas W. Thompson, Jr., Detroit; Edward J. Van Huisseling, Elmhurst, III.; Dominic M. Vairo. Houghton, Mich.: John J. Verbanc, Tax' edo Park. Del.: Francis J. Vukovich. Washington, 
D. C.; Carl Weber, Aurora, III. From H«cli: 
Here we are again, fellas, and we must admit that our effort to get news from correspondents has just about flopped. Sow this time we are not going to extend the list of reporters. Guess we'll 
. just return to the old system—catch as catch can! 
Three letters came through this month: one from Tam Proctor; another from EasUrn Art €•• ­rad; and a long discourse from Bemie O'Brien. To all of this in a moment. But first of all, we really do appreciate the cooperation of these three. Without them there would be no column this trip to press. 
Tom enclosed a clipping in his letter. It was printed in the "Elkhart Truth." Jan. 27, 1943: "T- G. Practar gets post in OPA Office." Tom was to begin immediately in the district office in South Bend. "At his OPA office in the Parthian building Mr. Proctor will be chief price attorney and a deputy enforcement officer, supervising the work of 14 investigators operating in 17 Indiana counties, incluiling Elkhart. His duties include interpreting price ceilings." This, in part, gives you an idea of what Tom's prospects were. We are wondering if he stayed on the job very long, be­cause he mentioned in his letter "I had previously made application for the Navy—and in several months I may be an ensign." What cooks, Tom— are you OPAing or Navying? In either case— lots of luck I 
Now to Art Cmirad—his letter came just before we were off to Chicago for the Midwest Confer­ence of Community Chests and Councils, Inc., so we saw- him and checked everything in the letter. In part he says this: "I am in the Navy. Ensign A.L.C.. AV (P) USNR, here in Chicago with the Flight Board. I was to go to Dartmouth, but a change of orders keeps me in Chicago. I have been assigned Cook County, including Chicago, for the new 17-year-old program for Naval Aviation. 75 schools, if yon please. I am a busy little boy. In April I am on my way to Quonset, R. I., for in­doctrination—then back to Chicago and the Flight Board. 
**Jadc ClailE (lieutenant j.g.) is in Tucson now for indoctrination—desert boats I suppose— he should be back in about three weeks. He says it IS tough—^but then the Wranglers will come through, won't they? 
"Today I met Joluny Jordan here on the S.S. Board of Trade and Johnny is taking the oath today (j.g.) and then leaving for Chapel Hill for indoctrination. 
"Ihere are a number of NJ>. boys around the class of *37. *40 and others. The secretary of the Skipper. Lt. Comm. Carl G. Olson, is Fatlwr Jalia Cavanaach's former secretary, Joe Malcranc. He has been, and is, a swell lad. I swore an ensign in today—^Jeranw Glaeys, *37,—^I think he said from South Bend. WaUy 03ric n is on the high seas—'tis said—an ensign we hear." 
Art looked very prosperous in his uniform, and in his job. After all we know about that Coarad guy, do yon know what he was doing when we walked into his office—fleecing his fellow officers 
for the Red_ Cross. If he hadn't shou-n us a letter from the Admiral assiKntnj? him the job—well, you know what we would have thought! Virginia and Art are anticipating a playmate for Carol Ann in May. Lots of luck, kids! Enjoyed our stay with you! 
And now to Bemic O'Brien: We'll quote him in full as follows: 
"I suppose you will be surprised to receive word from a phy. ed- major who is supposed to be mightier with the sword than the pen. but in appreciation of the fine work you have done in the past years, I am sending along a few items about fellows I have seen or heard about in the past six months. 
"Phil Heinle, his wife and daughter are living in Oak Park where he is in defense work at the Amertorp Corp. Phil is still as handsome as ever. 
"Phil. Frank Leonard, Ed Simpson and their wives were up to our apartment one night last month and we had quite a session. Frank has two flaughters. For the past four years he had been working as a salesman for the Arnold Schwinn Bicycle Co., hut last Novemlrer, because of pri­orities, he changed to Hallmark Greeting Card Co. After a two-month training period in Kansas City, he is now assigned to the Chicago area. Ed has one girl and is still with the Illinois Bell where he was recently promoted to assistant dis­trict manager. 
"Saw *Buir Molloy before he went into the Army around the first of the year—^he is the proud father of John G.. Jr., born Nov. 15- Have heard that George McElIigott, one of the few N.D. bach­elors in these parts, is also in the Army but don't know where. Ran into John Brecn in the Loop not long ago—he is married, has two children, and is now working for the FBI. John Morley is now a salesman for Flabst Blue Ribbon and has one boy. John 'Red' Ryan has been in the Navy for the past year. 

"Joe Flynn, wife, and daughter were in Chi­cago around Thanksgiving, but we didn't see them. He is still \vith the Abbott Pbarmaceutiail House in Buffalo. Mt. Carmel gave a large send­off party for Jrfinny Jordan before he entered the Navy as a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Physical Edu­cation division. 
"I am still in the Phy. Ed business as an as­signed teacher at Fenger High School, a nice spot on Chicago's far south side—I am marrie<l and have two girls." 
Thanks a million, Bernie—^you re:illy came through with the goods—and all of it tops. We appreciated the kind words about our work. 
Your scribe is not sure where he will be at the time of the next issue. Attempting to make the armed forces with a commission he found himself short of the necessary qualifications: vision in the Navy; age in the Army; and Military Police for Occupied Countries. Right now, with a re­classification into 1-A just around the well known corner, he is up a tree. Taking a long shot gam­ble he has accepted the position of Director of the Council of Social Agencies, Paterson. N. J. 
It may be that this work will be considered essential to civilian needs as it means planning for all social work in that New Jersey commun­ity. If it is not so considered, and unless they find something wrong inside the machine at the Barracks, we w-ill likely have a "private" label attached to us before long. In the meantime, how­ever, send any letters to the same address here in St. Louis. Wife and child will continue here until we are sure of our future. We had resigned our post at the University last fall, effective May 
1. Many prospects came along, and we selected NJ". as the most essential. Maybe Uncle Sam won't think so. 
Al Vitter is engaged in government research at H.I.T.. Cambridge, Mass. He still finds time to write, as is indicated by the 20-page paper on "Secondary Recovery in Louisiana," which he has contributed to the volume, "Secondary Recovery of Oil in the United States." 
A welcome note (with a generous check en­closed) from John Lehan's father, Dunlap, la., told of John's presence in Africa in early Janu­ar>*. No word since (when Mr. Lehan wrote on Feb. 20). John was commissioned as a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy in April. 1942. 
Through an oversight. Jack Nye Dnffey's con­tribution of $25 to the Centenary Fund was, in the Febi-uary "Alumnus," credited to the class of '32 rather than to the class of '35. Incidentally. Jack, formerly special agent for the Springfield Fire and Marine Insurance Company in Boston, entered the Army in mid-March. 
1936 
JoMph F. Mansfield. 34 Fifth St.. Pel­hmm, N. Y. 
Contributors, Jan. 15-March 15 Robert F. Bernard. Ncenah. Wis.; George A. Binder. Gary, Ind.: Lt. John C. Brady. M.D., New River, N. C.; John F. Bray, Paducah. Ky-; Robert W Cavanaugh, "Washington, D. C.: August J. Church. North Plainfield. N. J.; Robert F. Cook, Mishawaka, Ind.; John C. Donly. Newport News, Va.; James J. Dutton, Norwich. Conn.; William 
J. Farrell, Cambridge, Mass.; Henry W. Grubb, Louisville; Dennis J. Hickey HI, Davenport, la.; Joseph P. Hmurcik (additional) Bridgeport, Conn.; Norman L. Johnson, Louisville; Francis 
M. Joyce, Seaford. Del.; Lt. Edward S. Kirby, San Francisco; Lt. John P. I«han, Dunlap, la.; Howard C. Link, Pittsburgh. 
Robbert A. Manning, Chicago; Robert F. Mc­Cabe, Johnson City, N. Y.; James F. McKenna. Dallas, Tex.; Edward T. McNally, Pittsburg, Kans.; Rev. Russell J. McVinney, Warwick Neck^ 
R. I.; Lt. Francis J. Murray. MJ)., Elizabeth, N. J.; Stephen B. Novak. Claremont. N. H.; Michael 
J. O'Connor. Charleston, W. Va.; Joseph N. Ott, Chicago: Lawrence S. Palkovic, Johnstown. N. Y.: Lt. Leo J. Palumbo. Seattle; Charles M. Pieroni, Muncie, Ind.; Lt. Joseph P. Prendergast, Seattle; Lt. Joseph W. Schmidt, New York City: Lawrence F. Sihr, Chicago; Ensign James J. Siddall, Chicago; Robert F. Simmons. Rochester. 
N. Y.; James D. Swords. Point Pleasant, W. Va.; Matthew J. Thernes, St. Bernard, O.; Maurice F. Wallensach, Elgin, 111.; Ensign George K. Went­worth, Millinocket, Me.; John F. Whitaker (addi­tional) Kansas City, Mo. From Joe Mansfield: 
We had hoped that the mailman -would haul to our door as many letters for this issue as he did for the last. Alas! 'twas not to be. As we pound out these lines we've received only one letter. We're hoping that you'll have time to drop a card this way in the next month, so that we'll be able to put a lengthy column together. 
John Moran, Andy Hnfnagel, Sheiii Herrick and I got together a few weeks ago to talk over old times. It was a dandy evening and we hoj>e to make it a regular thing, rounding up as many more of the lads who are in the neighborhood. John is now a lieutenant (j.g.). He was afraid that he was jinxed by the premature mention of his promotion in the last edition of the "Alum­nus." But now it's a fact and John is quite proud of his new and shiny half stripe. 
Shcrb Herrick is an ensign, stationed in the Public Relations Office in New York. His work keeps him in daily contact with radio, the field in which he also labored prior to the war. Sherb is proud as all get out of his few-month&-old off­spring and will haul out snapshots of the pride and joy at the drop of a hat. 
Andy HnfnsKel is stationed at one of the Army l>osts near New York and reports that married life is agreeing with him. It must be because he looks fit as a fiddle. 
After partaking of a very fine dinner, we were standing in the lobby of the hotel indulging in a little small talk. Sherb. very natty in his uniform, was standing with his back to us when a depart­ing guest of the hotel rushed up to him, and thrust a room key into the hand of the startleil Herrick. "Here boy," remarked the stranger. "drop this key at the desk." Sherb glared at the man—what a glare it was—and then the stranger spotted the stripe and star on Sherb's sleeve. He beat a very hasty retreat. 
I understand that Dan McLaafhlin is now sta­
tioned here in the city. He's with the F.B.I. We're 
hoping to get him to join us one of these nights. 
Radio has been keeping me occupied. In addition 
to the many shows that I handle in the studios, 
I've been spending a lot of time hopping around 
the east on special assignments. For instance. I 
was in Buffalo a few weeks ago to handle the 
National Barn Dance. Last week I was at Wel­
lesley College to put together a show which fea­
tured a talk by Madame Chiang Kai-Shek. Then 
this week I spent two days at an army camp out­
side Harrisburg, Pa., where we originated a por­
tion of the "Army Hour." On all these trips. I've 
intended to look up Notre Dame men w*ho might 
be in the vicinity but each time I find that busi­
ness interferes. 
Ed Crotty, '37. was in town with his basketball team a few weeks ago. Ed is doing a terrific job at Prox'idence College. His record this year shows something like 16 wins against four losses. To date, he's lost his top eight men to the services, yet continues to win games. 
Dr. Ken Laws, 501 Lafayette Life Bldg., Lafay­ette, Ind., contributed the lone letter we've re­ceived and I'll pass «ome of it on to you. Ken is still single. He writes: 
". . . Last November I was in Chicago for three days at a meeting and during that time I tried to contact as many of the boys as I could, but luck was not with me and I didn't reach a one except Gcorxe Demctrio w-ho happens to be an assistant manager at the Palmer House. 
". . . Hike Crowe, '38, has just become the proud father of a son who will be another Crowe, to keep the name running at N.D. Mike is a lieu­tenant in the Quartermaster Corps and is j^ta­tioned at Paris. Texas. 
". . . If Fred Cox and Don McKay are still readers of the 'Alumnus.' I certainly would ap­preciate hearing from them. I saw in the 'North­western Alumni Journal* where Don had entered the Navy but it did not give his address. If they will contact me I promise to answer them as soon as possible as we have not seen or corresponded since w-e left Medical School. 
"You can believe it or not, but I've been up to South Bend but once since the Reunion and that was last year to the Northwestern game. . . . 
"I have it lucky in one way in that I'm prac­ticing w^ith Dad and in that way manage to get a full night's sleep every other night as we take turns doing the night work." 
Many thanks. Ken. Write again when you have the opportunity, I'll be looking forward to hearing from all of you. 
It's 2nd Lieot. Edward S. Kirby, U.S. Marine Corps Unit 115, cyo Postmaster, San Francisco. 
Capt. John S. Gleaaon, Jr.. Chicago, can be reached through H.Q. 33rd Infantry Division. Fort Lewis. Wash.. APO 33. 
Jim Siddall. who as a yeoman went around the world with the Navy and was later stationed in London at the American Embassy, was at last reports in this country and all dolled up as an ensign. Hail will reach him through his home at 7724 Yates Ave.. Chicago. 

The Notre Dame Alumnu 33 
 F«ky, 910 Hawthorne Road, 
Groue Pointe, Mich. 

1937 Paal 
Contribntors, Jan. 15-March 15 

Kalph L. Bernard, New London, Conn.: Sgt. Allen F. Bride, Springfield. Mass.; James R. Burke, Chicago: L t John J. Coyle, Chicago: Rob­ert J. Cronin, Chicago; Joseph R. English, Mary­knoU, N .Y.; Lt. Edward A. Fox, Chicago; 3. Fendall Froning, Wilmington, Del.: John A. Gil­lespie. Westfield, N. J.: Lt. Robert L. Grogan. Terre Haute, Ind.; Bernard F. Hartz, Indianapo­lis ; Ensign K. Joseph Heatherman, Huntington, 
W. Va. Francis P. Kelly, Joliet, 111.; Cpl. John 
E. Kelly. Fort Sill. Okla.; William J. Kennedy. Chicago; Karl G. King. Jr.. South Bend; Wilfred 
B. Kirk. Tuckahoe, N. Y.; Harry F. Koehler, South Bend; Eugene F. Ling, West Los Angeles. Calif. 
Justin C. McCann, New York City; Joseph P. McMahon. Arlington, Va.; Edward R. Neaher, Bronx. N. Y.; Walter J. Nienaber, Cincinnati.; James J. Nolan, East Hempstead, N. Y.; P%-t. Anthony F. O'Boyle, New Cumberland, Pa.: James 
T. O'Donnell, Brooklyn; Henry F. r'ojmnn. Ber­wyn. HI.; Erail J. Peter, Louisville: Robert E. Puryear, Jonesboro. Ark.; Francis J. Reilly, Brooklyn; Robert J. Schmelzle, Freeport, 111.; Pvt. Albert J. Schwartz, Salina. Tex.; Alexander 
L. Sloan, Peoria, III.; Robert V. Trousdale. Mott, 
N. Dak.; James A. Waldron. Trenton, N. J.: John M. Wallach, Brooklyn; Leo M. Willick. De­troit. 
From the South Plains Army Flying School. Lubbock. Texas, comes news that Capt. Frederick Maeller (M.D., St. I^uis University, MO), is surgeon of a troop carrier group. He was commis­sioned in June, 1940. 
pvt. Al Schwartz could, when he last reported, I;e re^ched through No. nS6 TSS, Flight No. 285. St. Petersburg. Fla. A scout sends word that Al registered 151 out of a possible 160 in his I.Q. 
LIEUT. GEORGE J. BONFIELD, '37 
George, was recently promoted to iirst lieutenant at Daniel Field. Augusta. Ga., where he is assistant post officer. He was employed by the Harris Trust & Sav­ings Bonk. Chicago, before entering the service on April 23. 1941. 
tests following his induction at Fort Leavenworth on Jan. 13. 
PRISONERS OF WAR 

The February **Alnmnn^* carried word 
that Lieut Richard J. Carroll, '37, Olicac*. 
of the Army Air Corps, had heen Uitcd as 
missing in action in Northwest Africa. Oa 
Feb. 8, the War Department reported that 
Dick was officially a prisoner of war in 
Italy according to an announcement by' the 
Rome radio. 
For many months Ensisn Gcorce K. Petritz. ex. *38, Rocfcford, ID., had ab * been listed as misainf in action* foQowins the Japanese invasion of the Philippines. It's now revealed, however, that Georse is held as a prisoner of war by the Japanese. Georce is a brother of Lieut. <j.C.) Joseph 
S. Petritz, '32. former athletic pablirity director of the University. 
Lieut. Bob Grosan. AC of S.. A-3, Maxwell Field, AIn., writes that he has seen Lieut. Jim Rocap, *39, and has heard from Lieut. Georse Bon­field, Augusta. Ga. Bob is flying planes all over the Southeast. 
Frank Reilly. one of the champion clippers and letter-writers in the business—he's what an editor dreams about but seldom sees or hears from— sends a contribution to the Association, a clip­ping about Gerr>' Hayes, '26, and the news that Bob McGIain is an ensign in the Navy. How about checking in with more details, McCIain? We can't get a rise out of Foley, the demon journal­ist and father. One child shouldn't slow him dow^n that much. Armstrong, with five, and Doolcy, with four, still get the "Alumnus" out. (What was that crack?) 
Jim Bacon is an assistant in the School of Journalism at Syracuse University and was named to the University honor roll for the fall semester. Besides his work for the University. Jim is night editor for the "Syracuse Herald-Journal'* and "Sunday Herald-American." He was on the "Heraid-Argus" in La Porte, Ind.. before he went to Syracuse. 
Sending the picture of Major Charles "Monk" Meyer and himself (which you'll And nearby in this issue) Lieut. Tom Cassidy writes from the Headquarters. 300th Infantry, Fort Benning, Ga. Says Tom of the foi*mer Ail-American from West Point, who commands the third battalion of the 300th Infantry. "I've gotten to know Honk pretty well, and he's a fine, competent soldier and man. He remembers lots of the boys from N.D., and of course many of the games." 
And Tom adds: ". . . There is another Notre Dame man in my regiment. Lieat. Bill Dreux, '33, who is also on the regimental staff. Came across a couple of other officers here at Benning who are N.D. men—Bob LeMire, *3€, and Ennis, *39. Both are lieutenants. LeMire with the In­fantry School, and Ennis with the 29th Infantry." 
1938 
Harold A. Williams. 4323 MaiUdull Rd.. Balttmotc. Bfd. 
Contributors, Jan. 13-March 13 

Paul H. Anderson, Pittsburgh: SKt, John J. Beer (additional) San Francisco; Cpl. George O. Belanger. Whitehall, N. Y.: Daniel E. Boyle. Phil­adelphia : Charles T. Brosius, Baltimore; Dr. Rob­ert J. Bryan, Baltimore: John L. Buckley, Elm-wood Park, 111.: Maximilian Burnell, Detroit: Sgt. John A. Callahan. Bristol, Conn.: Capt. Joseph 
A. Callahan (additional) New York City: Michael 
P. Clouse, Jr.. Somerset, O.: E. F. Connolly (Elected) Notre Dame: Joseph M. Corcoran, Brockton, Mass.: John C. Cottingfaam, Clneliiiiati; Lt. Emmett H. Crowe. Clearwater. Fla.; IX. II*­othy J. Cmice. Detroit; Donald F. Carrier. De-trait: Lt. Melville E. Dark. Springfidd. Mo.; Ensign John P. Fox. Jr.. Boffalo: fnUiam H. Gallin. Jr. Bronx. N. Y.; John J. Gorman. De-trait: John I. Bead. Weterville. N. T.: Joaqph 
A. Henebry. PlalnBeld. IIL: George C. Howard. Betheada. Md.: John L. Jehle. Alton. DL: Gaorse 
W. Johnson. Taylorville. IIL: Edward S. Kava­naugh, Notre Dame: Maurice 3. Kennedy. Ogdeo. .Utah; Edwin M. Kinderman, Portland. Ore.; Ed­mund S. Kowalski, South Bend: Capt. James B. Lahey. South Bend. 
Carleton G. MaeDougald. Providence. B. I.: Ensign Christoiiher R. Masteiaon. Sonunit, N. J.: William J. Mathey, CUfton. N. J.; Sgt. Edwant 
J. Mattingly. New Orleans: Ernest P. Manrin. Jr.. Hollywaad. Calif.: Robert A. MeGrath. Oak Park. IIL; J<din C. McKendcy. EggcrtsvUle. N. T.; John Murrin IV. Butler. Pa.; Balph L. Pope. Co­lombns. O.; Andrew J. Pupils. Maywood. lU.: Daniel O. Quinlan, Soperton, Wis.; Ibomas J. Radigan. Gary. Ind.: B. Scott Beardon. Grand Rapids. Mich.; William L. Sixsmith. Fittsboish: Robert N. Tharinger. Wanwatosa. Wis.; Ridiard 
J. Thompson. Toledo; John Ii. Tobin. Brunswidc Me.; Capt. Edward A. Uniaeke, Fbn^keepse. N. Y.: Lt. Fkancis F. Valeticb, Macon, Ga.; Robert 
C. Weaver, Coshocton. O.: Francis J. Winter, LeSueur, Minn. 
From Hal WilBam*: We have three letters, two postal cards, and a personal visit to report this month. Business is picking up. 
Hie first customer is Buaett "Swede" Baser who writes from 1613 Richards St., La Porte, Ind. Writes Swede: "Jtwxj Kane has just returned from South America to take up the position of sales engineer with Douglas Aircraft, Los Angeles. Taaa Behcn is now at Camp Roberts. Calif., but will soon be at Fort Benning. Ga.. as he has inst passed his examinations for OCS. Tom welcomed a son. Hike, into the household a month before he left for camp. 
** 'CeOy* BaU was a proud papa several months ago. *Celly* is an accotmtant with Bendix in South Bend. I saw Herb Weter at Bendix last week. The last I heard of Jim Leaky was that he was a captain in the Manne Corps, married, and living.in Philadelphia. Jack Scatt is also a Marine captain and was last reported in the East. Otta Schcrer is with the FBI. My wife is direct­ing the local Little Theatre club's next play—she taught speech and dramatic art at St. Mary's— and I am staying home with our seven-months-old daughter tonight, holding her in my lap and try­ing to type. We have a game—she types a word and then I try to type one. Yon can tell the words she has typed; they aren't misspelled. 
"I have just changed jobs myself. For the past two years I was manager of the local Soft Water Service Company, but last week I took a job as cost accountant for a local factory, the Metal Door and Ttim Company. We have quite a bit of war work. . . . JIa Siman. my wife's cousin, was a member of the first graduating class of Navy Training School at Notre Dame. Jack is married and has a son. ... " 
And that's the word from Swede, the boy from Good Thunder. Minn., who has made good. 
And here's a letter from Jalumy Maiphy of Oak Fark. lU. He says. "Jahn MawKa. Jr., dass of '38. enlisted in the Air Corps and was gradu­ated from Kelly Field, receiving his commission in May. 1942. He was just recently promoted to the rank of major. He is now at Macon. Ga. Lt. Ted Kmr~ — recnved his juris doctor degree from Northwestern in '41. Be was graduated from OCSchool. receiving his commission at Fort Ben­
MAJOR CHARLES "MONK " MEYER, LEFT, 
AND LIEUT. THOMAS E. CASSADY, '37 

West Point and Notre Dame fight on the same side! The fozmer Army All-Amer­icon and former Notre Dome Glee Club president and "Scrip" associate editor serve together at Fort Benning, Ga. (See 1937 news, this issue.) 
nint?, Ga., en Feb. 10. He is now an instructor at Fort McClellan, Ala. He was recently home on leave and his old friends, Tifjer McGrath, Johnny Bndclej-, Ed Fannins^ and Johnn}- Murph}* gave a party in his honor. McGrath is working for the Securities Commission, h.-^s a wife and child. Buckley is the father of three youngsters, all boys. Any time any of the N.D. boys get to Chicago have them get in touch with us fellows in Oak Park. III." 
Thanks, Johnny, for the letter. And congratula­tions to Monaco. I believe he is the first in our class to attain the rank of major. And also con­gratulations to Johnny Buckley. I believe he leads in the number of offspring. Has anyone beaten him? 
T/Sgt. Eddie Mattingly writes, this time from the Civilian Defense School. Loyola University, New Orleans. He is planning on OCSchool in the near future. 
And this from Leon Lancaster, Class 13, Com­pany A. CCS, Fort Washington, Md. "Just got a copy of the February 'Alumnus* and it inspired me to drop you a line. 1 am now in the OCS here, after a little over two years in the army spent in Alabama. Arkansas. Louisiana, and California. Expect to be commissioned a second lieutenant on St. Patrick's day. My brother. Art, '39. is now in the South Pacific, messing it up with the Japs. Got a letter from my old roomie, Owen Kane, and he is married and a father. Another roommate. Chndc Daley, *39 and '40, is married to an old girl friend of mine and he is a second lieutenant in the Air Corps in California. Bob Gartland and Jack Ward are in Washington." 
Thanks, Xieon. Try to drop over to see us if you have the opportunity.. 
And then a postal card, dated Jan. 19. from Cleveland, signed J. M.. saying. "Ll. Robert J-Mazanec, '38, Commerce, and is now stationed at Co. H 377th Inf.. Fort Sam Houston, Texas. He was home for the holidays and was at the Cleve­land Alumni Christmas dance. Met up with some of the boys here along the way." 
Tom HatdiinMn, now of the National Opinion Research Center. New York, stopped off in Balti­more for a visit while making a business trip South. 
This June the *38 class will celebrate its fifth reunion: however. I'm afraid it won't be much of a reunion with practically everyone in uniform and sprc-id out all over the world. Very few of us would have the chance to get back to Notre Dame even if thera was going to be an alumni reunion— and there isn't. 
I'm letting myself in for a lot of work, but here's a suggestion. If all you bums will drop roe li line—a postal card will do—and let tne know the answers to the following questions—Are you in the ser\*ice? What is your rank? What is your address? Are you married? Any children (enu­merate) ? What is your occupation if you are a civilian?—I will compile a class list, giving the data, and maybe we can get Jim Armstronff and Bill Dooley to run it in the June "Alumnus." Let me have this information by the end of April. And I w*ant to hear from all of you, including such dilatory fellows as Schcmmcr, McGrath, Larry Larkin. Tom Jordan. Dillon, and all the rest. 
Lieut. Francis F. Valetich writes from Box 36. Herbert Smart Airport, Macon, Ga. He was grad­uated on Dec. 23 in chemical warfare from the OCS at Edgewood Arsenal, Md. 

Bill Green, '34, sent from Corpus Christi, Texas, a note on the banns of marriage published in the local cathedral on Jan. 31 for Miss Anne Locaer and Ensign Arthur J. Waldron, USNR. 
The efficient Mr. W., your sec. along vrith Tom Morrison, '41, did a noble job of calling to the attention of the "Baltimore Sun" an error in an A.F. story from S.B. Somehow, the late track coach had appeared as "John P. N. Cholson" in this stor>', instead of Nicholson. 
Bill Mathey is a veterinari* student in the Uni­versity of Pennsylvania. Philadelphia, and a sec­ond lieutenant in the Reser\-e. Lieut. Kyle Don­nell was coming along nicely when he wrote on Feb. 1, having been able to leave the Naval His­pital. Philadelphia, for the first time in seven months. His wife and year-old daughter have been living in nearby Wayne. Pa. 
Chuck Tero' came through a serious operation in Kewanee. HI., and is back on the job with the Boss Mfg. Co. in Findlay. O. 
Buss Fltzfrerald wrote as follows on Feb. 1. "Risht now I'm^ out on an island in the Pacific, baking in the sun and being an involuntary blood donor to hordes of famished mosnuitoes." 
CpL George O. Belangcr, 3222516. his mother writes, can be reached through Headquarters G03rd C.A. (A.A.), Burbank, Calif. 
Tom Garvey is a metallurgist with the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corp., Duauesne. Pa. 
Justin Paul Lavin, Haverhill, Mass., was com­missioned an ensign in Naval Reserve at Jackson­ville, Fla., in February. 
1939 
Vincent W. DeCourscy, 1321 Georgia, Kansas City, Kans. 
Contributors. Jan. 13-March 13 

Lt. John P. Akolt. Denver: Thomas N. Armel, Chicago; Ensign Thomas C. Barnett, West New­ton, Mass.; Charles R. Bennett, St. Augustine, Fla.; Thomas R. Bossort, Milwaukee; Major Fran­cis X. Bradley, Bennettsville. S. C.; William J. Brennan. Bellefontajne. O.: Sgt. Luino L. DaPra, East Chicago. Ind.; John J. Deane, Milwaukee; Albert G. Denten. Chicago; Lt. Charles J. Engle­hart, Chicago; Bernard J. Fagan, Bath, N- Y.; Edward G. Farrell. Jr.. South Bend: Lt. Robert 
E. Fitzsimmons, Brooklyn: Har\'ey G. Foster, Bronx, N. Y.; Francis P. FransJoli. Gary, Ind.; Robert J, Gallagher; Pittsburgh; John M. Hag­gerty. Washington Court House. O.; Joseph H. Harrington, Ancon. Canal Zone; William R. Her­rick. Proctor, W. Va.; Robert B. Heywood. New Richmond. Wis.; Sgt. Hugo J. Hildebrandt, Cleve­land; Arthur L. Istanovic. Portland, Ore.; Dr. James A. Johnson. Ann Arbor, Mich.; Walter H. Johnson, Jr.. Bronxville. N. Y.; Ensign Francis 
B. Kelly. Jacksonville. Fla.; Julius R. Kristan. Wallingford, Conn.; Lucien J. Lacroix. Hacken­sack. N. J.; Howard L. Lardie. Texas City, Tex.: Francis J. I«auck, Indianapolis; Ernest F. La-Vigne, Geneseo. N. Y.; Bernard F. LeRoy. Esca­naba, Mich.; Francis W. Lloyd (Elected) (addi­tional) Notre Dame. 
William H. Malesh. Mahway, N. J.; Marion J. Haurello, Trinidad. C^Io.; Lt. Edward G. Mc-Derroott (additional) Grand Rapids. Mich.; Joseph 
E. McDermott, Chicago; Alfred B. McEnearney. New York City; John A. McGuire, Chicago: Charles J. Metzger. Rockville Centre, N. Y.; James G. Meyer, Livermorc. Ky.; Mark J. Mit­chell. Jr. .Chicago: George B. Morris. Detroit: Carl J. Nagel. Buffalo; George J. Neumann, Chi­cago ; Lt. James H. Penrose, Cohoes. N. Y.; Fran­cis R. PfafT, Roselle. N. J.; Sgt. Louis A. RadeJct. Wichita Falls, Tex.; William H. Ricke. Akron. C ; Dr. Charles R. Rilcy. Richmond. Va.; Pvt. Chester P. Sadowski. Washington. D. C.: Salva­tore P. Scarlata, Lodi. N. J.: Lt. Robert F. Schirf, (additional) New York City; Daniel C. Schmidt, Toledo; Harry J. Schroeder, Jr.. Fort Madison. la.: Walter J. Short. Alexandria, Va.; Pvt. Fred­erick E. Sisfc, Trinidad. Colo.; Edward M. Stub­belfield, Evans\'ille, Ind.: Bernard J. Sullivan. Wichita. Kans.; John D. Sullivan, Fall River. Mass.; Edwin A. Von Hoene, P'eekskill. N. Y.; Ralph F. Wachter (additional) Frederick. Md.: Lt. Thomas A. Walker. Harlinen. Tex.; Cpl. John 
E. Walsh. Jr.. Chicago; Eugene R. Zinn. Iron­wood. Mich.: Joseph C. Zuendel. Evansville, Ind. 
Joe Harrincton writes that, instead of working for the customs service in Panama, he is now administrative assistant for the Rubber Develop­ment Corporation program in the Republic of Panama. In the same work is Jf>e Apodaca. *30. former professor in the University, who is in charge of the rubber development program in Central America. 
Father Craddick, prefect of religion, sends word that Bemie Sullivan was married on Jan. 25 in Gesu Church. Detroit. No details. 
Mike Benedict writes from Kenrick Seminarj*. St- Louis, that he will be ordained some time this spring for the diocese of Lafayette. La. 
Harry Penrose, Utica, N. Y.. was commissioned a second lieutenant in early February, following his graduation from OCS at Fort Benning, Ga. 
Jade Ryan is in the research depnrtment of the American Potash and Chemical Corporation and receives his mail at P.O. Box 702. Trona, Calif. He has been married since last October, to a nurse from Trona hospital. From '39 and until January. *42, Jack was in the research department of the Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Company. Flin Flan. Manitoba. 

"Coming through Milwaukee last yenr," Jack writes. "I ran into John F. Jaeger, working for Cudahy meat packers at the time. As of Oct. 14 last year, he is also married. In Jotiet. III., I found Edward Tracey, also of *39, v.orking as a chemist for duPont." 
Paul Kelley, South Bend, is a first lieutenant in the Air Corps in New Guinea, acting as ad­jutant of his squadron and mess and transporta­tion officer. Paul has seen John Henebr}-, '40, and PUI North there. He says that his group has Mass every l^jesday night. 
Jolm Dnffy is a mechanical engineer with the 

U.S. Rubber Co., 6600 E. Jefferson St., Detroit. a recent postcard notice says. 
Ensicn (Coast Guard) Frank Reppcnhagen's latest address is C.G. 83304 N.O.B., Fleet Post-Office, Norfolk, Va. 
(S:e pave 39 for cdditional 1939 news.) 

The Notre Dame A 
u m n u s 
 G. Sanfvrd. 3934 N. MarrUnd 

1940 
Kobwt 
Ave.. MUwaakee, Wis. 
Contributoni. Jan. 13-March 15 

Royal P. Allaire, CambridBe, Mass.; Edgar H. Anderson, Pryor, Okln.; Henry G. Armitage, Hav­erhill, Mass.: Pvt. Francis Y. Aubrey, Norwich, Conn.; Lt. F. G. Barreda, Houston, Tex.; Capt. Julius W. Bercik. St. Albans, N, Y.: SKI. David 
J. Bernard, San Diego; Lt. Francis W. Biagi, St. Paul, Minn.; Lt. Robert W. Blake, San Francisco: Lt. Harold V. Boisvert, Key West, Fin.; Nathaniel Bond. Cincinnati; James G. Brown, Forest Hills. 
N. Y.: John T. Browning, Batt>e Creek, Mich.; William G. Burns, Philadelphia: William J. Can­non. North Muskegon, Mich.; Louis J. Cenni, Jr., Brandy Camp, Va.: Lt. Francis V. Ciolino, New York City; Charles L. Cobb, Galveston. Tex.; Michael H. Corgan, Alma, Mich.: Cpl. George K. Costello, Crystal Lake, HI.: Bernard K. Crawford. Annapolis. Md.; Ensign Joseph P. Cummings, Jr., Norwich. Conn.; Lt. James E. Curran, Dorchester, Mass.: Philip V. Daugherty, St. Louis: Pfc. Wil­liam R. Dillon, Fort Warren. Wyo.: Russell J. Dolce, Chicago; Henry K. Engel, Chicago: Pvt. Francis J. Ernest. Elkhart. Ind-; John C. Flana­gan. Kingston, N. Y.: Paul J. Flood. Somerville, 
N. J.; Ensign John D. Gavan. San Diego: Joseph J, Gerwe, Jr.. Hopkins, Minn.; Lt. Matthew N. Gonring, L.os Angeles; Ensign William F, Hnlpin, Harrison. N. Y.; Capt. John P. Henebry, Plain­field. III.; Paul E. Hickey. Auburn, N. Y.; Robert 
T. Hooffstetter. Columbus, O.: Edward A. Huston, Connersville, Ind.: John J. Joyce, Mahanoy City, Pa.; Sgt. William L. Joyce, Tempe, Ariz.: Lt. Richard B. Kelly, Lorain. O.; John C. Kelleher, Philadelphia; James N. Kenny, Peoria. 111.; Dan­iel F. Laughlin. Chica^ro; John J. Linnehan. Gary, Ind. 
Lt. John E. Mack, San Juan. P. R.: Ensign Edward J. Maher. Camp May, N. J.; Cpl. Joseph 
R. Mathey, Clifton, N. J.: Edward J. Mathieu, Hawthorne, N. J.: Thomas J. McKenna. Gary, Ind.: William S. McKenna, Detroit; Sgt, Robert 
R. McManus. Indianapolis; James R. McQueen. Mishnwaka, Ind.: John W. Meaney. San Fran­cisco; George J. Milford, Marion, Ind.: Francis 
H. Miltner, Cadillac, Mich.; Thomas J, Minogue, New York City; James T. Moore. Detroit: John 
B. Morgan. Arlington. Va.: Gerald E. Morrissey. Sault Ste. Marie. Mich.; Cpl. William J. Morris­sey, Haverstraw, N. Y.; Francis J. MuiThy, Ptoughkeepsie, N. Y.; Harry L. Norris, Trenton, 
N. J.: Pvt. Kenneth L. Oberbruner. Fort Lewis, Wash.; Sgt. John J. O'Brien. Indianapolis; Hugh 
K. O'Donnell, Rockville Centre, N. Y.; Kevin M. O'Gorman, Buffalo; Capt. Thomas M. Philpott. New Rochelle, N. Y.; Roy W. Pinelli, San Fran­cisco; Cpl. Carl E. Quinn, Macomb. 111.; Medard 
F. Rafalske. South Bend; John J. Reddy. Brook­lyn ; Peter J. Reilly, Pleasantville, N. Y.; John 
F. Rogers. Belleville, N. J.; Edward G. Rosanelli. Brooklyn; Lt. Leo A. Santini, New York City; John E. Sav'ord. Sandusky, O.: Lt. Robert F. Sayia, Montchur. N. J.; Lt. Robert J. Schultz. Oak Park, Hi;; John W. Skelly. Avon, N. Y.: Pvt. Norbert J. Spencer, Indianapolis; Robert G. Sulli­van, Binghamton, N. Y.; Joseph R. Thesing, Cin­cinnati ; Robert J. Tiernan. Des Moines, la.; Fran­cis W. Toyne. Kansas City, Mo.; Walter K. War­burton, Brooklyn; William R. Wicks, Hopkinsville, Ky.; John B. Willmann, Williamsport, Pa.; John 
E. Wilson. Yeadon, Pa.; Walton J. Wuebbold. Hamilton, O.: Ensign Edward P. Wurtzebach, South Bend. 
Jerry Bordeaux on Jan. 7 received his second lieutenant's commission at the AAF Bombardier School, Big Springs, Texas. 
Panl Hickey. attending OCS at Fort Belvoir, Va., was scheduled to receive his commission about April 1. He had been with a hospital unit in the South Pacific. 
Lieut. Frank BiaKi is at Camp Clark, Mo. An­other footballers. Al Mooney, was a drill instructor and candidate for Officers* School when the last word came in the Marine Corps base at Parris Island. S. C. 
Lieut. Jim Donoghue (who, incidentally, gets a prominent mention in Richard Tregaskis* recent popular book, "Guedalcanal Diary") writes a swell letter to Herb Jones, '27, business manager of athletics, from this address: "A" Co., 1st. Bn., 5th Marines, QJO Fleet P.O., San Francisco. Here is a quote from Jim's letter: 
"I went up to the Solomons with the first out­fits, early in August, and had a rather interesting time until the middle of October when a Jap shell landed almost in my lap, and I was evacuated with shnipnel wounds, so I took it easy until my outfit was relieved in the combat area. We are now having a nice time on the outskirts of a large city, while the men get hack in shape for another crack at our little yellow friends. I lost most of my gear when woundetl. Herb, but am enclosing a piece of Jap inva'^lon money which we found. The denomination is English because the Solomons were British before the war. 
"R;m into (luite a few N.D. boys on Guadal­canal while there. Tom Barry, *39, Ed Kirby, '35; Capt. Murray, '37; Lt. O'Connell. '39 (VSW) of Indianapolis, and Doujc Bangcrt, '40, who is in a torpedo bombing group. The Femedins twins of *40 are Navy lieutenants (j.g.'s) and were in this area for (luite a while. So, you can see that a 
N.D. Club here would be quite popular. 
"We get the scores on all the games, but little of the details until just recently. Had quite a rivalr>- cooked up over the Michigan game, since there are three of our officers from there. But our record for the year was better than theirs anyhow, so I promptly covered some bets for next year*^ game, and I hope to see it." 
John Mack sends in his contribution from San Juan. Puerto Rico, where he has been since last August as a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Coast Guard Reserve. Lieut. Jim Curran was (a couple of months ago) at the Bedford Airdrome, Bedford. Mass. It's 2nd Lieut. Robert W. Blake, Marine Corps, Unit S65. c/o Postmaster, San Francisco. And Art Lancaster's address is A.S.N. a2034699, 27th Infantry, Anti-Tank Company, AFO 25. cjo Postmaster, San Francisco. 
Don O'NeiH, South Bend, in North Africa with an intelligence unit, has lieen promoted to the rank of sergeant. Jim Cleao' has been promoted to a captaincy with the Medical Administrative Corps. He is at Carlisle Barracks, Pa., the Med­ical Field Service School. Lieut. (j.R.) Robert J. Beaudine, VP 73, Morgan Annex Navy Desk, c/o Postmaster, New York City, is in Africa, his mother writes, and would be very happy to hear from the boys. 
Capt. John P. Henebry is with the Army Air Corps in New Guinea and has met many N.D. men there according to his mother's welcome let­ter. His address: APO 710, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco. And Jim Plummer, now a lieutenant (since bis graduation at State College. Hiss.), can be reached through Transportation Section, Belle Mead QM Depot. Belle Mead, N. J. Jim's mother says that Jim reported that Fred Stnk­bins is in finance work with the Navy in Hawaii. 
Jim Varga, at the last report, was an ensign. USNR, studying at 78 Mt. Auburn, Cambridge. Mass. Jim had been with Caterpillar Tractor, Feoria. as an electrical engineer. Joe Hartzer was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Marine Reserve and received his wings in ceremonies at Jacksonville. Fla. In the same class was Ensign Paul PurccU who is now a Navy flyer. Both boys had undergone elimination flight training at Glenview, III. 
Recently receiving their wings and commissions as ensigns in the Naval Reserve were Ed D^yk* Duluth, Minn., and i«iui Mclntyre, Frovidenee. 
R. I., along with Geerce KnoWl. ex. *39, Nap­panee. Ind. 
1941 Sst. JAm W. Paticim. Jr.^ 5SM Dmr-Ibwtm U , Pittdwdi. Pa. 
ContriW'on. Jan.l5-Harcil IS 

James r. Aylward, Kansas City, Mo.: Cpl. Roy 
J. Bairley. Denver: John W. Barry, Van Home, la.: Lt. Francis J. Belie. Altoona, Pa.: Lt. Bofaert 
W. Boyle. Sycamore, III.: Lt. Lawrence H. Bracken, Brooklyn: Ensien Wade J Brady, Joliet, III.: Charles C. BroKser, Sprinir I.ake,Hich.: Paul 
W. Browniield, Dallas, Tex.; Pvt Robert K Bums. Jr., Philadelphia: James P. Carroll, Chicago: Francis H. Comins, Fort Huron, Hich.: James J. Corhett. Elmhurst. N. Y.: Charles L. Cunniff, New-York City: James B. Curtis, Ilion, N. Y.: iSvin 
J. Deal, Aurora, 111.: Paul R. DeLay, St. Paul, Minn.: William W. Dominic, South Bend: Robert 
J. Fallon, Houston, Te.x.: Cpl. Eugene R. Farrell, Newark, N. J.: Homer W. Ferguson, Winslow, Ariz.: William D. Gagan, Seattle: Charles D. Gainer, AVhiting, Ind.: Ensign John F. Gaither. Washington, D. C.: Ensign Ralph A. Gerra, Brook­lyn : Lt. James A. Conner, Chicago: Edward A. Graham, Sharon, Pa.: Lt. John C. Grobmyer, New York City: Joseph P. Guiltinan, Httsfield, Mass.: 
_ Ensign Edward J. Hanly, Ho-Ho.Kus. N. J.: Nor­man B. Heckler. Blue Island. III.: Ensign Freder­ick N. Holl, Pearl Harbor. T. H.: Lt. Thomas G. Horgan. Harding Field, La.: Pvt. Thomas E. Huck, Kansasville. Wis.: Edward L. Hultgren, South Bend: C. Edward Jacques, San Francisco: Harry G. John, Jr., Oconomowoc, Wis.: John L. Joyce. Tucapau. S. C.: Cpl. Daniel A. Justen. Modesto, Calif.: John J. Kane, Poughkeepsie, N. Y.: Lt. Francis B. Kennedy, San Francisco; En­sign John R. Kerrigan, Lincoln, III.: John W. Larson, Hashrouck, N. J.: Joseph L. Lawyer, Kings Mills, O.: Francis C. Link. Springfield. O. 
Pvt. Noel J. MacCarry. New Yory City: Pvt. Anthony J. Mallek. Seattle: William C. Malaney, Milwaukee: John L. Malaney, Dunkirk, N. Y.: Daniel E. McCarthy, York, Pa,: Michael J. Mc-Caughey. Chicago: Patrick F. McDonnell, Chicago: David L. McDowell, Garden City, Kans.: Lt. Mat­thew J. Miholick. South Bend: David B. Moncrief, Charleston, W. Va.: Lt. William A. Moulder, Camp Stewart, Ga.: John F. Nace. Schenectady. 
N. Y.: Lt. John J. O'Brien, Tracy, Minn.: Rob­ert C. Odenbach, Rochester, N. Y.: Ensign Jerome 
J. O'Dowd. Fort Wayne, Ind.: John F. O'Loueh­lin. Chicago: Lt. Thomas E. Hlgrim, Hollis, N. Y.: Sgt. Ralph R. Pinelli, San Francisco: Edward 
T. Pivamik, Washington, D. C.: Pvt. Eolert E. Pohl, Jr., Dayton, O.: Ensign .Thaddeus S. Poraw­ski, Bayonne, N. J.: Lt. John S. Powers, Ingalls, Ind.: Sgt. Paul F. Puglia, Columbus, O.; Eugene 
H. Quinn. Galesburg, III.: Lt. George D. Ree<I, Santa Maria, Calif.; Leo J. Robidoux, Milwaukee ; Eugene J. Ryan, Pottsville, Pa.; Jerome A. Ryan, Susquehanna. Pa.; Irwin J. SchafTner, South Bend; Hubert J. Schlafly, Schnectady, N. Y.'; Raymond H. Schlesier, Jamaica, N. Y.; Cpl. Law­rence A. Schmidt, Boonville, Mo.: John M. Speea, Kenosha, Wis.: Ervin A. Stefanik. Chicago: John 
R. SeidI, Jackson, Tenn.: Ensign Francis G. Stelte, Springfield, 111.: Daniel G. Sullivan, Rollis, 
N. Y.: CW. Thomas E. Talty, Chicago: Edward J. Tomcik, Cleveland: John F. Tormey, Rochester, 
N. Y.: Pfc. Norman C. Tremblay, Waterville, Me.: Pvt. Thomas J. Trueman. Biggs Field, Tex.: Cpl. John J. Ward. Jr., Keams, Utah; Pvt. Herbert 
A. Westhoff, O'Fallon, Ho.: Pvt. James A. White, Coodersport, Pa.: William F. Wingen, St Louis: E-.si5cn Vernon J. Witkowski, Washington, D. C ; Pvt William J. Woods, Westfield, N. J.; James 
D. Wrape, Paragould. Ark.: Charles L. Ziebarth, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
J»e Hache* recently changed his employment from the Bendix Corp., South Bend, where he had been since graduation, to the Stewart-Warner Corp., Chicago, his home city. 
John O'Brien is a second lieutenant in the Field Artillery following OCS at Fort Sill. Okla. When he wrote (late January) he was on his way to Camp Roberts, Calif., for duty. He had seen Jolin Meyer and Joe C»scy, both of *41, at Fort Sill. 
When Daniel Gerard Sullivan, the newly-married, wrote in late January he had just been sworn into the Navy under the V-7 program and was spending his evenings brushing up on his mathe­matics at New York Universitj-. He expected to be called into active training soon from his Hollis. 
N. Y., home. From the "Holy Cross Courier*' (St. Mary's) for February we get two *41 marriages, both of which took place in 1941: Mary Catherine Theis to Richard B. Everroad on May 5; and Mar>-LaRouche Walsh to Lawrence M. Walsh, on Oct. 25. 
One of the greatest dive bomber pilots in the Pacific, according to all the dope coming back, is a guy named Bob Sa^gau* No details yet. 
Jerrs' O'Dowd, recently commissioned an ensign at Notre Dame, comes through with a swell letter from his new post: U.S.N. A.T.B., Solomons Branch, Washington. D. C. Writes Jerrj- in part: **rm hardly alone here—in fact if nny more N.D. men show up here we're going to add to your headaches by requesting Universal Notre Dame Night to emanate from here. Here are the names of those I've seen so far: Ensign Bob Connelly, ex. '40, who has just come into the Na\-y Supply Corp and is attached to the base here; Ensign Bob Hanrrave. '42, Ensign Ned Wcinfurtncr, M2. Ensign Utb Kokenre, '41, just fresh from Navy training at Princeton; Ensism Mike Kelly, '42. Ensiffn Bill McAnliffe. '42. Ensign Mike Comer-ford. '42. and En8ii:n Sig Wesolowski, '42. 
"Managed ray first 52-hour leave in a month last week and saw the old N.D. chums in a whirl­wind race with time. Jim Barrow, ex. '40, is etill in Washington, -working as mechanical engineer w-ith a tool company, but nevertheless expects a draft call soon. 
"In New York had dinner with Ensign Dan Sallows, *40, who recently finished indoctrination at Dartmouth and who confided in me only to the extent that he expected to be traveling soon. Jack Doyle, '39, came over to the city from Passaic where he is still with U.S. Rubber in their e-xper­imental lab, and, believe me. for the short time he's been in the East he sounds like a Met Club operator already. 
"A Christmas card from the Bill Mooneys hints that he's still with the FBI in Milwaukee and that daughter Priscilla Ann is the wonder child of the age. Speaking of '39 and '42 'sleuthers,' word has it that Jim McG<rfdrick is with the Detroit Bureau of the FBI this month (March). 
"I'm sure that many of the ensigns from the first midshipmen school at N.D. feel they are adopted sons of the University as they proudly point out they've come from Notre Dame — espe­cially to our Ivy League brethren from Princeton. 
"Never enjoyed the 'Alumnus' more—so please keep it coming." 
Ue«t Joe GwltiBsn's father sends word from Pittsfield. Mass.. that Joe's address is as follows: Co. C, 206 Q.M. Bn., APO Annex, c/o Postmaster. Shreveport. La. 
Ji ^ Ifarniy from 561 Davis Ave.. Staten Island. 
N. Y., sends some generous help for John Patter­
•Mi. as follows: "I've just resigned my job [letter written on Feb. 18] as super\'isor of train-ins: with Bethl^em Fairfield Shipyard. Inc., Bal­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
timore, to enter the Coast Guard Academy at New London, Conn., to strive for an ensign's commission. George Ratsas also was employed at Bethlehem Fairfield in the Outfitting Department. George is the man who makes sure everything is ship-shape before the ship goes to sea. 
"Jerry SnlUvan of '41 fame, better known as 
D. G. Sullivan, recently resigned his job to enter the V-7 school at Columbia. Jerry Ryan, who won fame at NJ). in the Bengal Bouts, is employed at Glenn Martin's, Baltimore. Jerry is completely sold that the B-26 is the best plane in the world. 
"Ted Hynes, of Roslyn. L. I., has an APO ad­dress at San Francisco. Tom Pilgrim is a lieu­tenant with an anti-aircraft outfit in (Seorgia." 
The newly-married John Aselage is an ordnance inspector for the Cleveland Ordnance District. When he wrote, March 3, he was working in the Westinghouse plant, Mansfield, O. His wife is also an ordnance inspector in the Westinghouse plant. 
Lieut. Roger Shonvlin's mail is to be addressed as follows: 0-1548552, 380th Bomber Squadron, 310 Bomber Group,. APO . 520, cjo Postmaster, New York City. Another overseas lad who would like to hear from a lot of the boys back home is Lieut. J(An Grobmyer. 0-561155, Headquarters 12th Air Force, APO 650. c^fo Army Postmaster, New York City. 
Lieut. Francis J. Behe. ISIst Field Artillery. Camp Roberts, Calif., sent along a grand letter with a generous contribution to the Centenary Fund. Frank says, "I have run into a few alumni, namely Matt C!onrinff. '40, an officer in the field artillery, Sam Neill. '41, the same as Matt, and Gene DcLay. '41, who is a Q.M. lieutenant at Fort Ord, Calif., and we spent most of our time talk­ing about campus days." 
Al Lee was commissioned an ensign in the Naval Air Service at Jacksonville, Fla., in recent ceremonies. 
Joe Stephen, Longmont. Colo., has been as­signed temporarily to the 6Slst Signal Co. at Drew Field, Tampa, Fla. While at West Palm Beach, Joe met Dan Stack. Lariy Schmidt, who is at Camp Murphy, Fla., and Jade Powers, who is a pilot at nearby Morrison Field. 
Jim Gartland of Marion, Ind. and Ed Bfans­field. *34. are in the same barracks at Signal Corps officer's school. Fort Monmouth, N. J. 
Boy Bairley has been transferred from Lowry Field, Denver* 
1942 
WiUijuB E. Scanlan, 101 W. PleassMt St., Portace. Wis. 
Contribators. Jan..la-Marcii'-15 Robert J. Allen, Mt. Vernon, N. Y.; Diogenes 
J. Angelakos, Bloomfield. N. J.; John E. Busse, Cincinnati; Michael J. Carr. Indianapolis; Ralph 
H. Caston, Cambridge, Mass.: Howard G. Qiva­lero, Bloomfield, N. J.; Lt. John H. Clifford. Auburn. N. Y.: Lt. Daniel J. Cullinane, Bayonne. 
N. J.; Pvt. TTiomas E. Dillon, San Francisco; Lt. John F. Dinges, Downers Grove, 111.; Robert J. Fagan, Bath, N. Y.; William J. Fallon. BuffAlo; Robert F. Finneran, Columbus. O.; Robert M. Fitzgerald. Indianapolis; Thomas J. Fitzharris, New Rochelle, N. Y.; Lt. Joseph J. Flynn, Chica­go: Lt. Robert L. Fountain, Camp VanDom. Miss.: Ensign James E. Frick. New York City: Robert J. Fushelberger. Columbus, Ind.: Edward 
F. Gallegos. Chicago; Ensign John J. Garvey. New Rochelle. N. Y.; Ensign John W. Gilbert, Mt. Sterling, Ky.; Robert W. Hale. Milwaukee: Douglas F. Haley. Gary. Ind.; Lt. Daniel E. Hilgartner IH, Camp Phillips. Kans.; Sgt. George 
D. Hollenhorst, Fort Snelling, Minn.: Michael P. Humphreys, Los Angeles: Eugene F. Hunt. Brook­lyn ; Ensign Clarence A. Imboden. Jr.; New Or­leans : Byron V. Kaniley, Jr., Winnetka, III.; C^I. 
John E. Keenan, Belvidere, III.; William I^ Kel-Idler. Seneca Falls. N- Y.; Maurice S. Kelly, Buffalo: F&xil W. Kelley. Syracuse, N. Y.; Chester 
S. Lampert. Rochester, N. Y.; Robert C. LeJeune. Baltimore: Ensign Paul L. Lillis. Chicago; Stan­ley V. Litizzette. Helper, Utah: Charles B. Lohr, Dallas. Tex.; Cpl. John L. Luthringer, Peters­burg. III. 
Ensign Harrison T. MacDonald, West Lafayette, Ind.: Ensign William B. Madden (additional) Lake Placid, N. Y.; John J. Mahon. Cleveland; Ensign Quentin J. Marshall, Kansas City, Mo.; Horace J. McDonnell. Tulsa. Okla.; Richard E. McHugh, Manhattan. III.; Robert J. McKee, South Bend: Coe A. McKenna, Portland. Ore.: James J. McNulty. Chicago; Walter C. Miller. Notre Dame: William J. Minges, Charleston, W. Va.; Ensign Roy E, Murray, Butte, Mont.; TTiomas D. Nash, Chicago: Charles F. Nelson. Plymouth. Ind.; Her­bert G. Nilles. Charleston. W. Va.: John H. Nolan, Chillicothe, O.; Cpl. Frederick H. Paul­mann. New Rochelle, N. Y.; Ensign Francis J. Pollnow, Clayton, Mo.; Ensign Arthur W. Pope, Chicago: Ensign Robert H. Raaf. St. Clair, Mo.: Jacob M. Reichenstein,. Dallas, Tex.; James J. Rice. Reedsburg, Wis.; Floyd F. Richards, Law­rence. Mass.; Ugo D. Rossi, San Diego; Richard 
V. Ruppe. Hancock. Mich.; Gerhfird J. Schroer, Kansas City, Mo.: John A. Sheedy, Indianapolis: Joseph M. Shields, Pelham Manor. N. Y.; Edward 
J. Sullivan, Trenton, N. J-; Henry E. Storek. Bal­timore: John E. Treacy, Chicago: Paul E. Wack. Council Bluffs. la.; Thomas A. Walsh, Omaha. Nebr.; Cpl. Julian R. Walters, Nappanee, Ind.; Cieorge L. Westenberger, Springfield. Mass.; Ber­nard P. Wojcik. Elizabeth. N. J.; Leonard H. Wolfe, Memphis: Robert E. Wright, Chicago. 
From Scoop Scanlon: Sandwiched between the regular feature picture and news reels was a community song—the still­ness eased into a popular eastern University's song, followed with a southern favorite, and con­tinued with a west coast standby—all met with mediocre response. Suddenly the slow strains of the Notre Dame "Victory March" seeped into the Fort Sheridan theatre—and like a last-minute touchdown, the soldier audience spontaneously rocked the atmosphere. Everybody knew the words, the recruit from Alabama at my side. So did the officers. It seemed like a page lifted from a memory book of pep rallies at Notre Dame. All that was missing were those characteristic inter­rupting phrases like "Haaaay ElllUmer," "Men of Notre Dame," "Father Sorin." and "Now, Lads." 
Fort Sheridan for a moment became a mythical Notre Dame. Most of the soldiers were sidewalk alumni—but the "Victory March" took on a new meaning for them' that night. 
Another similar exiierience of old came ^vith the unexpected arrival from some place overseas of a letter from roommie Lt. Jim O'Langhlin. He writes: 
"By my address you can tell I'm overseas, but I can't say where or what I'm doing. But one thing I will say is that it's been one long time since I've received any mail. In fact I haven't seen any since leaving the States. Before this week (written Feb. 10). there was a long period when I couldn't write any letters, so maybe that explains. 
"Would give anything for a few copies of the 'Alumnus' to get the dope on all the boys. Inci> dentally, my cmnmander is Capt. Marray, '37. Lt. Jim Dsoaduie, '40. is also in this regiment. I guess we'll have to hold a Notre Dame Night some time. I fed awfully proud to be a member of this out­fit I'm in. It is tops in the Marine Corps. We have the 'fi^tinest' bunch of darn fool leathernecks that yoa would ever want to see. Sorry I can't tell you more, but the censor says 'no.' 

The N o tre Dame Alumnu a 
"I've had an education in travel and practical experiences since leaving Notre Dame. Seen places I've read about, others which I hadn't even heard of. So you can understand. I'm not sorry I joined the Marine Corps. I only hope our 
K.D. representation increases. I ran into Joe PostQpack on the West Coast just before I left. He's an ensign and looked swell—naturally. We were both pretty surprised at meeting there. 
"One of the biggest thrills I've had yet w-as on board one of the transports. The chaplain was Methodist (and incidentally, a fine guy). Sunday came and he asked me to conduct Catholic services for the men! And that wasn't all. There ^as just as large a percentage of non-Catholics at my services as Catholic! I never felt so proud in my life as I did that morning. From then on, I was tabbed as 'assistant chaplain.* Please give my best to your folks and say a few prayers for my boys over hers." 
More power to you, Jim— A newcomer to our writing corps, takes over from here, it's Lt. Bill Morrowr from Louisville. Ky.: 
"This is the first chance I have had to write because I have been well occupied in the Army. At this time I am nearing the end of my 10-day leave after having completed OCS at Camp Bark­eley. Texas. I was commissioned a second lieu­tenant in the medical administrative corps. I have been assigned to the Army Air Depot nt Warner Robins Field, Gn. 
"Dan Hilgartner also graduated with me and he has been assigned to a hospital in the midwest some place. Larry Aubrey and Chock Gehres are in finance. They were sent over to England back in October and from there they went to North Africa and have been there ever since." 
Another newcomer to our list is Pvt. Bernie Wasilewski of Nanticoke, Pa., and Fort Mc­Clellan. Ala., who postcards: "Have been always enlightened by the class of 1942 columns in the 'Alumnus' and now more than ever it lifts my morale. Finishing up six weeks' basic training and starting seven w*eeks of clerical schooling. It's really a swell life. Saw Tom Johnson a few weeks ago. He is a corporal at this camp." 
Ensign Eddie Emmeneggcr. of the Naval Air Station, Miami, Fla., joins us with this comment: "Just a note to let you know that I am now an ensign in the supply corps of the Navy and am stationed at the Naval Air Station as an assistant to the commissary officer until I go to Harvard on June 14 for the four-months course in supply and disbursing. 
"While waltzing along Miami Beach I very accidentally ran into Mr. Devere Flonkett, my for­mer history prof, at Notre Dame, and we had an enjoyable chat together. Here's hoping that the world is treating you as well as it is me. This basking in the Florida sun is really a treat after leaving the 18 below zero climate of Monroe, Wis." 
Gcorse Haniger, the engineer from El Paso. Texas, says: "I am at Newark, N. J., working for the Federal Telephone and Radio Corp. My work is just fine and I like it very much. A couple of other N.D. fellows are working here also so I have a little company. I heard from Charley Klei­backer of Cullman, Ala., at New Year's. I just wrote an answer a couple of weeks ago (Feb. 7)." 
One of the recent issues of the "New World," newsy Catholic weekly in Chicago, carried a glam­orous picture of that nifty punting ace of the football squads of our era—^Don Hogan. He's now Ensign Hogan, serving in continental U.S. at that time. Don's brother (Seorge, an alumnus of George­town U., is on duty in the Caribbean. 
Another news flash, via Associated Press, re­ports Knote K. Rockne, Jr., son of the coach, was inducted into the army at Camp Perry, 0.. on Feb. 13. Welcome, chum. 
Tom Dairy, former basketball manager, recently got his bars as second lieutenant from Marine Officers* training school, Quantico. Va. Among graduates of hundreds of fighters and bomber pilots in Class 43-B—largest class ever turned out by the Army Air Forces Gulf Coast Training center at Randolph Field, Texas—was Lt. Danald 
B. McNally. And Tom Henney of Portage, Wis., the one-man welcoming committee when I arrived there last spring, is now a private in the Air Corps at Kessler Field. Biloxi. Miss. He and Bob Uhl ought to get together some time. 
When the EEC received the call. Fort Sheridan became a veritable receiving room for N.D. men. Tony Girolami, Bob LcMcnse, Tom CoatcUo, Joe Trilling, John Solon, Stanley Pyritz, Alfred Oliver. Jr.. Blair McGowan. Jim Godfrey. Frank Ebner and Bill Carroll have gone past. LeMense went to Camp Roberts, Calif., but have no record of others. 
That popular assistant coach, chief scout and B squad mentor for so many of our class, Lt. BUI Cerney, is now athletic ofiicer at the Glenview. 111., Naval Base. He is one of the founders of the Service Men's Baseball league which organized Navy and Army units around the midwest into what looms as one of the classiest loops in the country. 
Tom Walker is now an ensign in the Naval Reserve. The Navy also claims Joe Pctritz. '32, known so well to all the athletes. The ex-pub­iicity chief of the sports department is now a lieutenant (j.g.) at Princeton, N. J. Ted Car­penter, publicist of Marquette sports, postcards that Petritz was one of only two in his entire class to climb a 20-foot rope! Remembrances of school days, eh Joe! 
Just before press time. Petritz postcarded, "I saw the Hunter-Rice race a few weeks ago and have bumped into a lot of N.D. guys here and in New York and Philadelphia." 
An air mail letter brings the latest dope on several law*yers, according to the news-gathering eye of Mrs. Lora Lashbrook, Dean Clarence Blan­ion's careful obser\'er: 
"The Navy has or will soon commission Joe Miller. Jerome 0*Dowd. Ed Kelly and Hank Schrenker. The Army took James D. Lancaster. Rocro Montegna, Ernest Timpani, Jt^n Ward. Alex TsioUs and John Verdonk. The last two were recently commissioned as second lieutenants in the Provost Marshal's Division. The FBI made special agents of William B. Mooney. Jim Hc-Goldrick. John J. Killen and Bob RIdiardaon. hut their addresses change so often it is difficult to keep up with them. Richardson was the last to report to us that he was located in Louisville. 
**Dlck Swisher is still with the Haskins and Sells accounting firm in Chicago. John Spcca was preparing to practice law according to his last letter, which was quite some time ago, and Harry Anderson is engaged in preparation for the prac­tice of law, and is now awaiting the result of the March bar examinations. Ed Portcn. Al Bams and Ward Rafferty have failed to furnish us with current information as to their present location and occupation. Anthony Bernard is a Navy officer, and Bill Syring is with the legal division of the Internal Revenue Service in Detroit. Jim NCB recently reported a change of address 'at the re­quest of the President* from the legal division of the Columbia Broadcasting System in New York to Fort Sill, Okla. 
"Pete Alonzi is soon to be commissioned an en­sign. Mcrvin Bagan is also an ensign stationed in Bermuda, and Jordan Hamel is presently practic­ing law in the legal division of a Chicago trust company. Louie Anderson is now preparing for the Indiana bar examinations; Joe Barr is soon to be commissioned a Marine officer at Qiuintico.. Va.: Jim Daner is presently employed in a defense plant in South Bend; Jim Diver is in the Army in the Far West; Lawrence Ferrnaon is await­ing the results of the March Indiana bar lam ­inations after receiving a medical discharge from the ERG; BUI Hoffaa has been employed in a South Bend defense plant; Bill HaaiBiU* a moi ­ber of ERC, was called into active service in Frit­maty and is stationed at Camp Lee, Va. 
"Cecil Jordaa. soon .nearing a commisnon in the Naval Air Force, completed his pre-ffi^t training at Iowa Gtj and is now traininff at Minneapolis; Joe LaTciy is in the Army—exact location not known but he definitely prondaed to keep us posted; I^e* Liack. who m s admitted to the HIdilgan bar and expected to enter militaxT service, suffered a broken arm and is working in the Supreme Court of Hidiigan pending recovery. 
**Tim Blalwr, another ERC gradoate. was called to active duty and is at Camp Robinson. Ark. Hanr Ifarray took the Pennsylvania bar exam recently and was slated to enroll for gradoate work in the TTniversaty of Chicago and accept a p<^ition with the Chicago Title 4E Trust Co. 
"Charley Haasea is now at Lowrr Field. Colo: Bob SalUvam was recently eomnussioned a lieu­tenant in the Air Corps; Jade Meyer and Danqr DaUll haven't written ns lately; and Jim tjamt '41. wms' accepted as an FBI special agent with headquarters at LomsvilW 
From Miami Beadi. Fla.. Lt. Jalu Dinsea takes time out from basking in the sunshine to write: '*I went to OCS at the Army AdministratiTe School at Fargo. NJ)ak.. and met Bill Woeiacr, '38. and a • fellow named Wise of the class of '41. From Fargo I was assigned to Mianii and in my squadron X found Lt. Frank CoaWy. NJ>. *32. and an English major. At present I am ad­jutant and he is assistant plans and training offi­cer for our outfit. 
"And guess whom he and I met—^FraidL Leahy! He is living (Jan. 17) cm oar same street and set­ting a tan on the nearby beach. My ex-roooiie, Frank Pollaow. was an ensign at Cambridge. Mass.; Joe Fafaacr was awaiting Oie Navy's call as a pharmacists* mate the last I heard—that was around Christmas. Along in September Brother Tom KaalTmaa was expecting to be in khaki. Hank Dahm finally got his degree. Fm espedalb sorry to hear about Biatty Bynw;. I'd also like to hear of or from Bill Kiihy, Mama Clark, Kaaff­man. And what about Doe CooiMy?** 
It's Corp. Paal Neville now. editoi^-in-cfaief of the ''Keflector" at Richmond, Va., Army Air Base. He writes: 
"We've got a bondi of WAACs coming in soon. What's the low-down on them? Eauaett ¥orwa is about set for OCS. I haven't even applied yet but may some day. Have you heard frmn Ton Powers? When last heard from. Joe Laae was in New York awaiting the Navy call. He had passed his math at New York University, so was all set on the V-7 deaL 
"George Straticoo is still holding forth in the base legal office here and one of the defense of­ficers. L t Fredeticfc M- CroOard, '40. is assistant intelligence officer with a ^chter squadron. We had a three-way get-together the other day. 
**GcorKe Kcotaa'a death was sure a shcKk, and that Great I<akes game most have been impres­sive. Joe Hradwree is in Tonopah. Nev.. with a bomber outfit. Keeaaa, by the way, must have re­turned to Camp Bowie; Tex., after a forloagfa. I hear Tiny Fotd was out at Buckley Field in Den­ver, my Army alma mater, attending armament school." 
George VU, the engineer, reports in from In­dianapolis: "I- am still situated in Indianapolis and in mid-Febmary was given a new asrignment which will probably keep me here for some time. 
"Vm taking another chemistry coarse here at In^ana U. £xtennon. and am.still leartung. I had a letter from Bart Crowley, and also a letter from Gene HatmadKr. Bart is still working at Seagrams, and Hatmacbcr is an ensign in Foari Harbor. By the way. what happened to Jaha Doa­nelly? 
Taa l Deery was home this past week but I didn't get to see him. Also Frank Fox was in town about a month ago. In the first part of February I went to Cincinnati for a week-end. Of course. I didn't see or call Irene." Now, George, you're breakinET her heart. 
Recently I received a letter from Bill Kearney, '28, major domo of the ChicaKO club- He writes: "Notre Dame isn't sure yet as to whether we'll have Universal N.D. Night this year. AVe are going to have some affair that night anyway—if we can find a hotel to feed us without ration books." 
A couple weeks ago Dave Henes, editor of the "Fort Sheridan Target," went convoying to Cali­fornia—one of his recruits was Bob LcMensc, *43, of N.D. I took over and at Libertyville. 111. Key­stone printing shop the director was genial Ed­ward A. Cogley, father of Edward A. Cogley, Jr., '33. Ed, Jr., is currently in Atlantic duty and re­ceived his lieutenant's rating in the Navy from Princeton, N. J. Jim Rice, the red-head phy-ed from Reedsburg, Wis., is still assistant coach and a teacher at his home town high school. That team recently went to the semi-finals of the Wis­consin state high school tournament at Madison. It will be Ensign Jim Hackner soon, at Columbia U., New York. 
On the Hiawatha recently, I happened into Hans Helland of Wisconsin Dells, Wis. He reports that Danny Dahill was at school recently, ^-isiting Father Ryan. He also said Red Loncrgan inaugu­rated a new employment service for South Bend merchants and industries. Those needing part-time help can contact Notre Dame students through the "Scholastic's" energetic promotion system, cooperating with the U.S. Employment Office in South Bend. 
Ray Ebli, operatives report, is fully recovered from injuries sustained playing football for the Chicago Cardinals last fall and is currently doing well for an independent team in hometown. Iron­wood, Mich., while awaiting the call to some of the military services. 
Red Obcrbmner, popular red-head basketeer, is captain of the Fort Lewis, Wash., basketball team. Wonder if it is the same team that com­peted in the national A.A.U. tournament at Denver. 
Notre Dame's representation on the Great Lakes basketball team—Eddie Riska. George Sobck and Raster Hiller—helped the club to 34 victries in 37 games, N.D. halting a 24-game win streak. 
Thanks to the combined courtesy of the late Georse Keoffan and Joe Petritz, I got a bench seat to the hectic triumph over Ray Meyer's '38, dan­gerous DePaul team in Chicago's Stadium. Eddie Sadowski was on hand. too. He played for She­boygan Redskins which won the National pro title. Next night after he w^as with us, he looped in 15 points for the Redskins. 
Also have a postcard from Joseph E. Howard, new financial secretary of the Knights of Colum­bus, whidi officially anounces that Brother Eli J. Shaheen, '35, known to so many as Eli Abraham, left for Army service on Jan. 2. Another report says Allen H. Elward, son of the former Purdue coach, lost his life in a plane crash over the Bay of Panama on March 4. 
St. Patrick's night. Tommy Coyne of Letterpark, County Galway, Ireland, a corporal at Fort Sheri­dan, and I attended the 63rd annual celebration by the Ancient Order of Hibernians. And one of the fellows we bumped into appraising the dark-haired oilleens was HUand Edmonds. Ml. who is also still at Sheridan. 
By the way, it now looks like there is consider­able room for improvement in the Alumni Cen­tenary contribution list. Only 107 from our class were listed in the February "Alumnus." 
In the meantime. **If it's news—write Scoop." And don't forget, YOU are news! 
Bob McGowan is second lieutenant at Camp Luna, N. M., according to a note received a couple of months ago from the camp public relations of­fice. He had finished OCS at Miami Beach, Fla., on Oct. 28, after enlisting in the Army in April. 1941. Ed Nigro, Kansas City, Mo., is in med school at Creighton, Omaha. 
2nd Lient. Victor F. Corcoran, of the Army Chemical Warfare Service, reported for duty at the Army Air Forces Flexible Gunnery School, Tyndall Field, Fla. He took his OCS at Edge­wood Arsenal, Md. Walt Desel's address: Platoon No. 1946, Recruit Depot, Marine Barracks, Parris Island. S. C. 
Dan Hilgartncr, having finished OCS at Camp Barkeley, Texas, on Feb. 24, was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Medical Administration Corps. He is now stationed at the 250th Station Hospital, Camp Phillips, Kans. 
Cpl. Vince Hoffan's address is Hq. 8th Air Force, APO 633 (Hold), cjo Postmaster, New York City. Ensign Dan Shouvlin, USNB, is also overseas. 
Recently commissioned ensigns in the Naval Air Ser\'ice include Qaentin Alarshall (married same day he was commissioned). Bob Raaf, Gcorxe Thompson, John Ga\-in, Walt McConrt, Ed Man­glesdorf, Herman Oberfaofer, Don O'Brien, Ed Danla\7 and Bill Grad}*. A second lieutenant in the Marines is another flyer. Bob Smith, who was commissioned on March 10. 
1943 
Ensign Edward C. Roney, 1723 Iroqnois Ave., Detroit, Blich. 
Contributors, Jan. 15-March 15 
Robert O. Baker, Dundas. Wis.; Frederick G. Christman, Terre Haute, Ind.; Carl S. Coco, Lake Charles, La.; John J. Gilligan, Cincinnati; Ensign William H. Grady, Holyoke, Mass.; George O. Hays, Cleveland Heights. O.; John D- Hunt, Brooklyn; Peter F. Moritz, Mansfield, O.; Robert P, Nenno, Notre Dame; Edward C. Roney, De­troit; Leigh R. Sullivan, Milwaukee. From Ed Roney: 
Well, here we are three-months-old alumni and I have a second edition of "1943" to get out. As was to be expected, the theme this time changes from engagements and marriages to service news. 
Just a little late for the last edition Bill O'Connell wrote; "I've not been doing much of anything so far as most of my friends have re­turned to school. Last Tuesday I was in Philly for our club dance. It was a very nice affair and most of the fellows were there. PanI Toland, Ralph Carabas., Joe Kreesoc, Ed Casey, Bad Dad­ley, and Bill Costello are a few of the boys who came. Tomorrow I start work so it really looks as though the party is over." What kind of job is it. Bill, any\vay? 
Shortly after an envelope arrived from Pvt. John D. Hnnt, No. 32720706. 235 QJM. Co., Camp Sutton, N. C, with a copy of the Class Ode. Thanks a lot. Jack. It's even better than I told you it'was. 
While roaming through downtown Detroit a­while back I ran into Jim "Red" Marpl^T who said that he and the E.R.C. had been called up in mid-January. Among those he saJd were going were Jim O'Donnell, Blair McCrowan, Lee "Bull­dog" Raymond. Joe Trilling, Frank Ebner, and Bill Carroll. 
After hanging around doing nothing since 
' Christmas (this town has no jobs for men on 12­hour call) I decided to take another trip down to school, and then to Chicago, with the hope of picking up some more news and seeing the fellows and someone else in both places. Just be­fore leaving on the 19th I received my orders to report to Dartmouth College on March 8 and Princeton on May 11. 
Down at school I bumped into Frank King, the old roomie, now living in town. Bob Martin, Jim Ginrd, Recrie Flynn. and Zig Sandom. Ziggy said that Ensign Jerry Gainor is in D-V(P) training at Tucson, Ariz., while Ensigns Bob Walsh and Ed Nichols are at Princeton. All had been gone about two weeks. Girard had received orders like mine and was in town for the day picking up uniforms. 
Dropped over to Morrissey Hall where now reside (by this time) Midshipmen Ed Hickey, Ed Neaxle. Dnd Smith and Frank Fitzpatrick. All said the work was tough as could be, and Hickey claims that by the time he finishes working and studying he has all of five to ten minutes free-time a day. 
Then on to Chicago where a visit to the Black-hawk produced Midshipmen Hank Kane, Pat Donoran, Ray Scfaoonboven and Pat Bradley. Also there was President, and now Air Corps Cadet. Jade Tallett. Jack and I arranged to meet at the Notre Dame-Great Lakes game that night. This was undoubtedly the greatest game I've ever seen, and there was a most impressive ceremony honoring the memory of Coach Keogan just be­fore it. Gail Fitch and Midshipmen Bob Sweeney, Roffe Cnmmings and Jack Gilligan popped up around the bar at half-time. After the game Tallett.Bill Johnson, Pete Moritz, Bob McKee and I took a little of the town in for good measure. 
Fitch was able to tell me that Bill Dvorak was to be at Dartmouth and Cummings and Gilligan said their roommate. Quince Storm, was going also. Moritz got a call from home over the week­end telling him that his orders arrived too. There should be quite a Notre Dame crowd there. 
Back at school on the way home. Jim Byrne listed Bill "Mose" Moorhead as stationed at Fort Hayes, Paul M«Uoy at Fort Sill, and BiO Brady at some unknown camp in the East. . 
About 145 men were called out of school the week of Feb. 13 for the Army Air Corps. Tallett was one of these and is in Miami by now. Jack Edwards was another. 
Also seen at school were Don Heltzel, Bob Browning, Bob Nenno, Tom Miller, Ollie Hanter, BiQ Sclierer, Jack Morrison, and Ensign Joe AUard who joined the Naval Air Corps in mid-junior year and is now an instructor at Glen-view, 111. All those still in school were struggling through their last semester and wishing they were out. 
When I finally got home a couple of postcards and a letter were waiting for me. The first was from Radio Clubman Tom Cooney who gives out with the following: "Congratulations for your work in the 'Alumnus.* You have no idea how good it is to read about 'the boys.' 
"Just was released from St. "Vincent's Hospital in N. y. C. where I had an operation on my jaw. Everything fine now, but would like a steak if I could eat it or buy it. Tomorrow I go off the liq\ud diet. The day I came out of the hospital I was sworn into the Navy, Ensign, D-V(S) and report at the Navy Indoctrination Station at Dartmouth on March 8. After six weeks there on to Princeton for a few weeks and then? 
"Jamca .'Bud' Pnrccl], who finished his sopho­more year with our class, is at Nashville, Tenn.. with the Army Air Corps. He was engaged over the holidays. Bill O'Brien, Bronxville, left last week in the ERG. Will let you know where he ends up. 
"One of the naval doctors who examined me was 'Bacfcy' O'Connor of football fame. An officer who was going over my papers saw I was from Notre Dame and introduced me to him. He is a grand guy and we had ciuite a chat as he had not been to NJ>. since 1935. Congratulations again and keep up the good work." It took two cards 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
to hold all that. Thanks a lot for the news, Tom. 
The letter was from Gail Fttch reporting on him­self and Sweeney but I had seen them in ChieaKO. Thanks for the effort anyway, Gail. 
Then a card from Al Clark saying: "Just re­ceived February 'Alumnus.* Lots of luck in keep­ing class of '43 together in print- Leaving Feb. 23 for Army Air Corps Pre-flight school at Miami Beach. Joe Mara, Joe Gibbons and Jim Murray are at Fort Monmouth in Jersey, while Bill O'Brien and Veet Cappello are at Upton on Long Island. 
"Met Bill Olvany on the Great Black Way. He's heading for V-7 school at Columbia. Ran into John Tracy and John Roescr at the N.D.-N.Y.U. rout at the Garden—both Army bound. Ray Wil­mer'a at Camp Ferry, O., Blike Comerford's in the Navy 'somewhere in Maryland.' Dick Powers goes in the Army next week." 
Couple of days later a letter arrived from Jack Wicsins. It must have taken his training as a football manager to get all the news he gave on one page. Jack checks in as a contributor with— "Since you petitioned for news of the class of '43, I feel almost duty-bound to get a few names in print in an effort to scrap *Scoop* Scanlon's rec­ord column. 
"This kid reports to Fort Sheridan on March I for the uniform of a Pvt. 1*11 also get the knock­out shots, etc.. It's merely the area reception cen­ter. I imagine that the IG ERC's from Notre Dame have vacated by now. Jim O'Donnell in­formed me that most of them reported on Feb. 
15. I imagine that Frank Ebner was in the group: I do know Jade Solon was grabbed then. 
"When I saw Jim O'Donnell I was with Ed Hanrahan who is now in the employ of U.S. Steel in Gary. I had an offer from them to work in Pittsburgh but was forced to discard the idea when the induction notice was mailed. Ed and I met Jack Tallett and Don Miller at the Randolph St. Station; they were awaiting Pete Moritz's arrival frora^ Savanna, 111., where he holds down an accountant's position. While we were talking together, Joe Hillebrand happened along to give us the dope on the Abbott Hall men. 
"Joe Callahan writes that the Navy IS going to call the D-V(P)*s after all! He is set for Dart­mouth on the 8th of March. I imagine that you. Julie Dnrbin, 'Cholly* Sturm and the rest will report to the same place. 
"And Paul Weber writes that he is working for an auto parts dealer in Albany—claims he is living on borrowed time though. 
"On one of my nights out. I saw Jade Donlevy in the Panther Room; he had a few hours be­tween trains en route to Iowa pre-flight. He re­ported that my football buddy. Art Keating* was a traveling tax expert for Haskins & Sells. 
"I've also managed to see Bob Kuipers at the Loyola-DePaul game and Dick Cree\-y (now a Marine) at the Loyola-Chicago walk-away. Then there's Ed Fercnson, now an ensign. At the time he was awaiting orders to be put on duty in carrier-based aircraft. And I hailed Frank KcUy, another ex. '43, on Randolph St. He has graduated from chauffeur for Father Burke to a med student at Northwestern. He says that Jade Bennett is there with him." 
The Marines listed in the last edition are now graduated and at Quantico, with the exception of Ed McKim, who spent some time in the hospital and is therefore slightly behind the rest. 
Then today another letter; this time from deep down in the south and Carl Coco: 
". . . The February issue .. . I received and read from cover to cover with much enjoyment, especially your news of the latest graduating class. . . . 
"Bob CorricAn is now Pvt. Robert Corrigan. He was stationed at New Cumberland, Pa., but was awaiting transfer at any moment when I heard from him. I am at present waiting to be called to the Army Air Corps." 
This column is longer and newsier this edition due to the efforts of men who took time off to write in what they knew. You can all see from this just how good we can make it if we all get busy and keep punching. As you can see, quite a bit of news can be put on a penny postcard. And it won't even cost a penny for those in the service. 
And, by the way, your copy of the "Alumnus" is sent to your home address until you are per­manently stationed somewhere. So, when you are, send in your new address. 
According to last issue's plan, those having birthdays the next two months are: April I, BUI O'Connell; 5, Bill Mnrrin, John Nidiolson; 6, Bill Ford. Blair McGowan; 8, Joe Goeken, Bob Palendiar, Paul Weber; 9, Julian Atwater, Jim Price; 15, Ed Murray; 18, Joe Becker, Bob Ka»­berg. Bob and Dick Padesk>-; 19. Wayne Zcller; 25, John Sdiindler; 26, Joe HiUebrand; 28. Jay Gibson. 
May I. Pat Donovan; 2, Bill Dvorak. Joe Nor­ris; 5, Al Muench; 6, Ray DnsKan; 7, Bob Baker, John Fearon, Bob Hallein; 8, Herb Becker, Bill Scully; 13, Harmon Spina; 14, Bob Baachman, Fred Doatel, George Thompson; 15, GcorEe Hayes; 
17. Bob Walsh; IS, BiU Frye; 22, Frank Kasper, Ed Palman, Jim Pappas; 24, Leo Linck, Ray Schoonhoven; 28, Frank Fenante; 30, Di ^ Topta, Paul Toland. 
The deadline for these men is May 1 and I'd like to hear from all of them. "nil the next edition then, good luck, and re­
member NEVER TAKE THAT NEWS TO BED SIT DOWN FIRST AND WRITE TO—ED. 
When Fred Christman wrote a couple of months ago he was still working for Haskins St Sells, hut had been ordered to leport at Fort Hayes, O. No word from him since. Bob Baker sent a grand letter from Dundas, Wis., where, as production manager of the Baker Canning Company, he was getting set to prepare lots of peas for lots of people. Bob sent the address of his former roomie, Jfie Farwell, who was then at Miami Beach for Air Corps training but expecting to be moved. 
BiU Mengel is a junior engineer in the air­plane division of the Curtiss-Wright Corp., Buf­falo, N. Y. Joe McGovem is a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps Reserve following successful completion of his flight training course in the Naval Training Center, Pensacola. Fla. 
Late 1939 News 

From Vince DeCoursey (even later than usual) : The past two months or so brought a rather unusual amount of news, for which thanks, and let's keep up the good work. First, announcements: Tom Foye, Ensign, USNR. and Miss Kathleen O'Connor were married in Los Angeles on Jan. 
5. On Feb. 16, Class 43-B of the Columbus Army Flying School graduated Jack Neumann as a lieu­tenant in the Air Corps. 
Concerning Tom Foye's nuptials, a letter from Bob Heather received just a few days too late for the last edition was full of information. Bob being one of the wedding party. Tom is in charge of a Navy crew on a merchant marine ship and a clam about information, according to Bob. Much news in the letter. (Incidentally, we're writing this from the little town of Anaheim. Calif., about 30 miles from Los Angeles, and as yet have been unable to get in touch with Bob). At the S.C.-N.D. game there was a disappointing turn-out as compared with former years and only Frank Meyer, Sweeney Tadc. George Meeker and Bob Ossenbach made an appearance at the Bilt­more. Among other news in Bob's letter: Win Sckaltc was married in the spring of 1942 and Bob Waldedc a few months after that. Win ' still in Engineering at Douglas and Bob with Turco Products (Bob H. is, of course^ at liock­heed). Ensign Jae Dwin is still stationed at liOnK Beach. At Lockheed also are Dan Bbicaa, BIB Stevens. Art Fiedler, B«k Bard and Bab Hiff. BiU Barton was recently married; he is stationed at Lowry field, Denver, in the Air Force. Vince Dacffan is working at Santa Monica, married and with one child. Bob also added that hii old roomie, Jake Jaxtheinwr. was married in Sharon, Fa., during the last year and is still with Westing­house in Canton, O. 
Shortly after Bob's letter, came another frpm Jim Tansey, written from the Army and Navy "Y" in Boston and announcing that he was now a sailor for Uncle Sana. Among others he has seen here and there: Dnke EIIU and Chct GadleiU; Boody Albert is in Boston doing some tyx>e of atb­letics with the Navy. BiU Piedmont is with the Navy at Fort Sampson. Jim says that perhaps the best way for anyone to write him (and he sure would like to hear from as many as possible) would be to write to his home at New Haven, since he has no permanent orders. 
A letter from BL S. HcGinnis, captain. A.F.S., Fort Knox Ky., but more recently a neighbor at Fort Riley, Kans. Marty has been in the army for 23 months; (this may be news to Marty, too, but we missed him by about four hours on one of our trips to his part of Kansas looking for cream; he had just left on something' or other and we didn't get to see him). The Memphis situation was pretty well covered in Marty's letter: Jim Montedonica was a lieutenant in the QM.;' Dancy Mathis is a civilian automotive Instructor in the second army; Larry Satton is an air cadet; Frank Framiali is still at Gary. Marty is apparently just temporarily going to school in Tactics at Fort Knox—in his class is Charles B. McFarland. 
After a long delay, a letter from Pete Sand-rock, Ensign, USNR from somewhere oat of the 
N.Y. postofhce where it is hot and he gets sea­sick. F^te really has been moving since he, a chemistry major, turned up in one of the A.B. philosophy classes and. Lord help us (or him!) if it wasn't' Father Brennan's Logic. He has been employed by the Army in Portland; then to the Navy at Northwestern. Boston, Miami (all schools) and since February this year has been an "exec," communications, gunnery, supply, medical, censor officer. 
Comes word from Dino Falsioni, now graduated from Albany Law School, and waiting to hear from the FBI. He had seen George Maloy in Clyde, who was waiting for a call into the VOC. Jalin Lynaoik is teaching near Clyde at Savannah High School. 
Lake Lacroix's mother dropped us a welcome line about the new ensign (Jacksonville Air Sta­tion. where we wonder if he has run afoul of 0*Mea!ia). 
All the interest in Joe Leisinv's whereabouts has borne fruit. Not from Joe. of course, who is well known as the world's worst correspondent, but from his sister, who thoughtfully provided the information. In June. '41. Joe was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Marine Air Force at Pensacola and made an instructor; in June. *42, he was made a captain. From then until he was transferred in December he was head of the In­structor's School at Pensacola. His address at present is Capt. Joe £. Leising, Third Marine Air Wing, Squadron 321. Cherry Point. N. C. Joe is also married, and, by way of interest, to his sis-ter's husband's sister, which is. of course, perfectly clear if you study it long enough. We do want to thank Mrs. Guastaferra and assure her that any­time she has any infomuition about Joe or any of his classmates we will be only too happy to ^send it on to the "Alumnus." 
Have You Heard the Story About... Father Sorin and Schuyler Colfax? 
Have you ever heard the story of how Schuyler Colfax, a South Bend celebrity, tried to wheedle Father Sorin into supporting his own political party? It hap­pened during the Civil War. Father Sorin had always shied away from politics and wanted to mind his own business—that of education. But the Brothers of the University were called up in the draft and Father Sorin was distressed because he had already given most of his priests who were serving as chaplains. He felt that for that sacrifice the Brothers ought to be exempted. One of his priests, Father Carrier, was down at Vicksburg with Grant and Sherman. He wrote to Father Carrier asking him to prepare a statement requesting the e.x­emption of the Brothers and to show it to Grant and Sherman. These two generals agreed with Fadier Sorin and wrote to Lincoln recommending the e.vcmption. In a few days, the war-President granted the request. 
Then Schuyler Colfa.\, who was running for a seat in Congress, approached Father Sorin and suggested that this might be the very time to show the party in power that Notre Dame appreciated the favors that had been granted him by voting for Schuyler and the rest of the men on his ticket. "Remember," he continued, "you are post-master at Notre Dame, an office you hold only at the good pleasure of the president!" 
Well, Father Sorin realized that Colfax had him in a tight spot. Still, he didn't want it known that he was getting mi.vcd up in politics. He told Colfa.x that he would do what he could. He called together the members of his council and e.xplaincd the situation. One of the Brothers was authorized to go around quietly to all the voting members at Notre Dame ex­plaining how they must vote. 
When the votes were counted, alas, Colfax received no votes! Why? Some say that the Brodier misunder­stood the instructions. Others say that the members were indignant that Father Sorin should tell them how to vote. Then, too, most of the Brothers were Demo­crats in those days and they looked upon the Repub­licans as almost some heretical party! 
Whatever the e.xplanation, Colfa.\ was very angry. He told Father Sorin that the post office would be taken away from him, and that the exemption for the Brothers would be withdrawn. Sure enough, in a couple of weeks, the Brothers were notified that they must respond to the draft. 
Father Sorin was distraught. But he tried again. This time, he urged Mrs. Sherman to intercede with Lincoln. That good lady did. It just happened that on the day Lincoln received her message of intercession, it was announced by telegraph that General Sherman had captured Savannah. This happy coincidence moved Lincoln to relent. And since Schuyler Colfax had been elected without Notre Dame's help, no harm was done and everyone was happy. 
This is only one of the fascinating incidents detailed by Father Hope in NOTRE DAME —ONE HUN­DRED YEARS, a new 500-pagc history of the Uni­versity. There are hundreds of other events, some remote, some recent, that will be of special interest to 
the  alumni  of  Notre  Dame.  A  complete  bibliography  
and  index  and  36  handsome  illustrations  add  great  in­ 
terest  to  the  volume.  

The order blank belort' is for the special use of alumni. 
The UniversityNotre Dame,  Press, Ind.  ORDER BLANK  
Hope, Please send C.S.C., at $4.00  a  copy  copies of NOTRE postpaid. Remittance is  DAME ­enclosed.  ONE  HUNDRED  YEARS,  by  Arthur  J.  
Name  
Address..  
City.  





