The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
n 
/^ 
,f/ 
Cominenceinenl Final 

Cfte Jl^otre j^ame lilumnus! 
VOL. XI. MB^ INDIANA, JUN E, 1933 No. 9
.sS^ '•£r\ 
Cv^ 
^1 

UniversimObse^&s Great Commencement 
, , DR.dflMSS 
"c/. VJflLSlI, M.D. ~ 
Notables Attend 89th Notre Dame Commencement 
Above is reproduced a lay-out for newspapers ivhich carried to the world the brilliant program, which marked the Eighty-Ninth Aiinual Commencement exercises of the University of Notre Dame, and the Golden Jubilee ceremonies of the prfsentation of the Laetare Mednl. 
The New Officers of The 


Notre Dame Alumni Association, 1933-34 
Honorary President President 
First Vice-President 
Second Vice-President Director for Four-Year Lay Trustee, Six-year Lay Tnistee, Sia-Year 
Term Term _. Term _ 

—B^TSON V. KANALEY, 
M. HARRY MILLER, FRANK C. WALKER, .ABTHtJR E, CARMODY, FRED L. STEERS, 
._ FRANCIS E . HERING, JOHN P. MURPHY, 
 '04  '10  '09  '15  '11  '98  '12 

GOVERNORS AND LIEUTENANT-GOVERNORS 
DISTRICT I. (Northern Indiana and Southwestern Michigan) 
Governor —Jolin W. Eggeman, '00, Fort Wayne, Ind. Lieut.Gov.—Timothy P. Gahin, '16, Hammond, Indiana 
DISTRICT II. . (Chicago) 
Governor —Daniel Hilgartner, Jr., '17 Lieut. Gov.—James H. Brennan, '20. 
DISTRICT III. (Ohio, Western Pennsylvania and West Virginia) 
Governor —^E. C. McHugh, *13, Cincinnati, Ohio. Lieut. Gov.—Rev. 3L L. Moriarty, '10, Wooster, Ohio. 
DISTRICT IV. (Minnesota. Wisconsin and Northern Michigan) 
Governor —John V. Diener, '09, Green Bay, Wisconsin. Lieut. Gov.—^Daniel Coughlin, '22, Waseca, Minnesota 
DISTRICT V. (Michigan, except North and Southwest) 
Governor —Raymond J. Kelly, '15, Detroit. Lieut. Gov.—Joseph F. Sanford, '21, Muskegon, Michigan. 
DISTRICT VI. (New Jersey, East. Pennsylvania, Delaware, and District of Columbia) Governor —^Thomas Farrell, '26, East Orange, N. J. Lieut. Gov.—John Purcell, '26, Fanwood, N. J. 
DISTRICT VII. (New York City) 
Governor —Ambrose O'Connell, '07. Lieut. Gov.—William A. Daunt, '08. 
DISTRICT VIII. (New York, except New York City) 
Governor —Dr. Robert Bums, '17, Buffalo. Lteut.Gov.—^Leo Kelley, '22, Syracuse. 
DISTRICT IX. (New England) Governor —Joseph P. Gartland, '27, Boston, Mass. Licjef. Gov.—Charles Grimes, '20, Providence, R. I. 
DISTRICT X 
(Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina) Governor —Anselra D. Miller, '25, Roanoke, Va. Lieut. Gov.—Forest Fletcher, 12, Lexington, Va. 
DISTRICT XI. (Alabama, Georgia and Florida) 
Governor —^Harold Foley, '21, Foley, Fla. Lieut. GOD.—Chester Wynne, '22, Auburn, Ala. 
DISTRICT XII. 

(Kentucky, Southern Indiana and Tennessee) Governor —Frank Bloemer, '22, Louisville, ICy. Lieut. Got;.—Edw. H. Pfeiffer, '22, Louisville, Ky. 
DISTRICT XIII. 

(Louisiana, Mississippi and Arkansas) Governor —Arthur Carmody, '15, Shreveport, La. Lieut. Gov.—Robert Evans, Jr., '28, Vicksburg, Miss. 
DISTRICT XIV. (Texas) 

Governor —Joseph A. Menger, 25, San Antonio, Texas. Lieut. Gov.—James P. Swift, '24, Dallas, Texas. 
DISTRICT XV. (Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma and Southern Illinois) 
Governor —^Dr. D. M. Nigro, '14, Kansas City, 3Io. Lieut. Gov.—Edgar F, Moran, '17, Tulsa, Okla. 
DISTRICT XVI. 

(Northern Illinois, Iowa and Nebraska) Governor —Richard B. Swift, '20, Davenport, Iowa. Lieut. Gov.—R. Gerald Jones, '22, Dixon, Illinois 
DISTRICT XVII. . (Montana, Wyoming, North Dakota, and South Dakota) 
Governor —Dr. R. C. Monahan, '90, Butte, Montana. Lieut. Gov.—^Thomas C. Kasper, '21, Brookings, So. Dak. 
DISTRICT XVIII. (Utah and Colorado) Governor —^Robert Fox, '01, Denver, Colo. Lieut. Gov.—Henry Weiss, '08, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
DISTRICT XIX. (So. California, Arizona, New Mexico and El Paso area) Governor —James D. Barry, '97, Tucson, Arizona. Liezit. Gov.—James H. Bach, '07, San Diego, Calif. 
DISTRICT XX. (Northern California and Nevada) Governor —^Howard Parker, '17, Sacramento, Calif. Lieut. Gov.—^Keene Fitzpatrick, '13, San Francisco, Calif. 
DISTRICT XXI. (Washington, Oregon and Idaho) Governor —E. M. Starrett, '21, Port Townsend, Wash. Lietit.Gov.—James L. Hope, '11, Astoria, Oregon. 
DISTRICT XXIL ­(Foreign) Governor -Alfonso Zobel, Manila, P. I. 

COMMENT 

Another Association year has come to a close with Commencement and the publication of this June ALUM­NUS, the last untfl October. 
All of our problems have been so thoroughly discussed, and the one so­lution of the payment of dues so defi­nitely emphasized, that we ought to make this parting observation one of more pleasurable memory. 
Things do look better. If the tone, that intangible quality of men and events which nevertheless makes it­self heard, rings true from its Com­mencement manifestation, we're all set for a big year. 
This Harry Miller fellow, whom the Michigan football team of 1909 will remember as a driving, force, hasn't lost any of it. 
The University has weighed us in the balance and agreed to satisfy our wants, so long as we continue to give our maximum co-operation. 
The old Secretary-Editor-Treasurer, to list all of the titles of the old mon­archy, has struggled along this far through balanced and unbalanced budgets to a point where he can pre-' diet that the Alumni Office will be doing its utmost. 
About all that leaves is you, old pal. 

Shortly after you enjoy the follow­ing • pages, listing the glamor that was Commencement and the glory that was Laetare Medal presentation, listing the hundreds of alumni who received the unlimited hospitality of the University,—^youll receive a little notice that you are to enjoytheprivi­lege of participating in all of these activities, these achievements, by the increasingly simple (if you're admin­istration-minded) prow&s of sending five dollars in cash, iridney order or (such is our own optimism) cheek. 
That's a simple exchange for a trade-mark that means as much as Notre Dame. 
Then, after we've received the sev­eral thousand fivespots, %vill we go 

THE NOTRE DAMEALUMNUS 
JAJIES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
The magazine is published monthly during; the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of So.OO include a year's subscription to THE AliUSfNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923. at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81. Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEIIBER OP THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
ME.MBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUSINI FEDERATION 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME . Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, Secretary-Treasurer 
ALUMNI BOARD 
BYRON V. KANALEY, '04 ----- Honorary President 
M. H.\RRY MILLER, '10-------- President FRANK C. WALKER, '09 ----. - First Vice-President ARTHUR E , CARMODY', '15 ----- Second Vice-President JOHN F. O'CONNELL, 13-------- Director ROBERT E. LYNCH, ' 0 3 -------- Director HUGH A. O'DONKELL, '94-------- Director FRES L. STEERS, 'H --------- Director FRANCIS A. WERNER, '33 (one year) Director CLARENCE MANION, '22 -----(ex officio) Director 
places! And do things! Set? We've fire .in '79, wiping out thirty-seven 
had ideas and programs and people years of grueling progress. Then waiting these long four years. The look at the air view again. Read the machinery of production is ready. The record of the Eighty-Ninth Com­market is crying for the commodity. mencement. This is the Notre Dame How about a share of stock? You've you are judged by. Who made it? already made a handsome profit on it, You, in part. But not—^youll be the my friend, on the investment of your first to agree—you alone. predecessors and your fellows. They 
Dues are a very small tribute to the 

counted on your interest. 
men who have gone before you in the building of Notre Dame. They are a
Look at the air view on the next 
very small contribution for the men page. No matter if you left here in who will come after you. 

June 1883 or June 1933, think of Father Sorin standing on the snowy But like those few dollars of orig­banks by the little Log Chapel, a inal capital that Father Sorin brought small clearing, a few dollars, a little to these shores, if we have them, we band of Brothers, sparse population can try to work similar miracles in nearby, few Catholics. Think of the the shadows of his Golden Dome. 
•^" H' '^-^"^ • -•* 
A'^^ /f 
•; P"'^'--^ , PftffWifii 
•i«^;S!W. 
,^ffr»'^• 
MOST RBCBNT AIR VIEW op THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRB DAME 
Alumni of nil yearn will find in thin view of the campun the evolution of the liuildin// prouram which han hroHilht Notre Dame from the hidden little Imitdinu on tlie shore of the lake to the (treat (/roup of rewWenco and academic buildinijn tohich now offer no imprendve a picture, to all visitorn. 



THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. XI. JUNE, 1933 No. 9 
Celebrities and Crowds Create Record Commencement 
John McCormack, Margaret Anglin, A l Smith, Dr. James J. Walsh, Gov. McNuH, Falhct Coughlin, Distinguished Cuests and University Speakers Thrill Throngs 
Harking back for terms to the sports pages, "the 89th Annual Com­mencement of the University of Notre Dame, June 2, 3 and 4, broke all gymnasium records." 
Class of '33, Theatre, Alumni Ban­quet, Glee Club Concert, Pontifical Mass, Commencement Exercises, Laetare Medal Presentation, in the order named, achieved new peaks of splendor and attendance, comprising, with other numerous features, Notre Dame's greatest Commencement. 
Sunday, June 4, is a day unequalled in the history of Notre Dame, and likely to remain so for a long time. Therefore, the ALUMNUS violates chronology to recount its trilogy. (The recounting by Edward Brennan, '31 journalist.) 
An Irish singer, telling simply in song of the overflowing happiness of his heart—^"This vast treasure of con­tent that is mine today"—rang down the curtain Sunday night on the 89th commencement program of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. John Mc­Cormack, recipient of Notre Dame's Laetare medal at the golden jubilee celebration of the medal, an honor which, as he said, he long secretly longed for, could find no better ex­pression of his gratitude than in the beautiful and eloquent words of James Whitcomb Rilev's "The Praver Perfect": 
Bring unto the sorrowing 
All release from pain. 
Let the lips of laughter overflow again. 
And with the needy 
O divide, I pray. 
This vast treasure of eontent that is mine 
today. 

Dear Lord, kind Lord, Gracious Lord. I pray. Thou wilt loolc on all I love Tenderly to4lay. 
Mr. MeCormack's song was the final episode in a long and busy pro­gram of brilliant addresses and im­pressive functions throughout the day, highlights of which were the ap­pearance of former Gov. Alfred E. Smith, of New York, on the Notre Dame stage, the baccalaureate sermon by Rev. Charles E. Coughlin, of Royal Oak, Mich., and the commencement address by Gov. Paul V. McNutt, of Indiana. 
Mr. Smith's appearance at Notre Dame in the afternoon at commence­ment exercises was the occasion of an unparalleled demonstration. Again at the Laetare ceremony in the eve­ning his entrance brought the throng of 6,000 that jammed every comer of the gymnasium to their feet while the band struck up that famed battle-song of the Brown Derby, "Sidewalks of New York." 
Mr. Smith's arrival one hour late made it impossible for him to attend the first of the day's exercises, the solemn pontifical mass, celebrated by the Most Rev. John Francis Noll, bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind., at which Father Coughlin delivered the bacca­laureate address. 
The capacity crowd that was present for the beautiful ceremony of the pontifical mass thrilled to the stirring oratory of the clergy's fore-. most radio speaker. Father Coughlin, when he delivered the baccalaureate address. Following the singing of "Veni, Creator Spiritus," by the Mo­reau seminary choir and the Univer­sity glee club. Father Coughlin knelt to receive from the bishop the stole and blessing. The crowd went on its knees with Father Coughlin as he himself kneeled at the altar and prayed briefly before advancing to the front of the stage. 
Materialism and the philosophy of 

"individuals were roundly attacked by the radio priest as he pleaded with the 565 members of the graduating class to "become pioneers of a new era in Catholic education, the advance guard of a movement away from the philosophy of licentiousness and greed." 
"The thousands of friends and relatives of these young graduates," he said, "are celebrating, whether they know it or not, the birth of a 

234 THE NOTKE DAME ALTJMNXJS June, 193 S 
new age in Catholic education and these young men are leaving the halls of their alma mater to go forth as pioneers, not following the old paths but new ones. 
"For more than 400 years that 
. great civilization of ours has been dedicated to a policy of rugged in­dividualism. We have watched this movement grow until the old prin­ciples of Catholic loyalty are referred to as the superstitions of the dark ages. 
"Imanuel Kant defied the Phari­sees of his day with his principles of idealistic selfishness. He strove to make the individual greater than the race, to build up licentiousness, to break down Christian decorum." 
Addressing himself particularly to the graduates, he said, "you have learned within these hallowed walls the Catholic principle that the end of production is use with profit, not profit alone, not use alone. 
"For the last 400 years we have multiplied the numbers of graduates from the schools and institutions who ^vith all their learning and all their pedantry live to create a hell upon earth, the crown of which was the world war—a crown fashioned by rabid individualism. 
"On this feast of the Pentecost, turn away from the old roads that led to horrible sufiering, hunger and want, unemployment and the divorce courts. Assume the new leadership of Jesus, Christ. Become modem apostles, ask for the gift of wisdom, of knowledge, of Christian fortitude. Go forth and preach the gospel of Christ, not the gospel of e.\ploitation'. 
"Though we try our utmost to end the depression we will never succeed until the principles of Christian char­ity and justice are restored to the world." 
Following the baccalaureate mass the 565 members of the graduating class in caps and gowns marched across the main quadrangle on the campus and assembled at the Univer­sity flag pole. -After blessing of the flag annually presented by the senior class to the University, the weather­worn old flag was lowered and the new one raised. Until next June and another class of graduatesit jvfll float over the Universitj' campus. Through­out the day thousands of persons vis­ited the campus, visiting the art gal­leries, museums, residence halls and dining halls. 
When it was learned that former Gov. Smith had arrived many of his loyal followers came from the cam­pus to the hotel, hoping for a glimpse of the democratic nominee for presi­dent in 1928. State and local demo­crats _ gathered in the Oliver lobby, awaiting an interview with Mr. Smith or with Gov. McNutt, who arrived in mid-afternoon. 
At 4:30 o'clock the;. Smith party which then included Prof. Clarence (Pat) Manion, Mayor Ray Miller, of Cleveland, Frank C. Walker, Mr. Mooney, Rev. Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C, and others, left in official cars for the University. Gov. McNutt fol­lowed. 
Cheer upon cheer greeted Mr. Smith's entrance to the gjTnnasium. The program, featured by the presen-
REV. CHARLES E . COUGHLIN 

Pastor of the Shrine of Hie Little Flower, 
tation of degrees to the 565 mem­bers of the graduating class, and the presentation of honorary degrees of doctor of laws to Father Coughlin and Gov. McNutt, moved quickly. The diplomas were presented by Father Mulcaire. 
It was announced by Father Mul­caire that the 1933 award of the ?500 to the lay member of the University faculty who has given the Univer­sity most distinguished service during the past year was won by Paul Byrne, University librarian. 
Hon. Paul V. McNutt, Governor of the State of Indiana, then gave the briefly eloquent Commencement Ad­dress which the -A.LUMNUS is privi­leged to reprint separately. 
Among the many guests of honor at the commencement exercises, one seated on the stage attracted a lion's share of the crowd's attention with his Indian headdress. It was Rev. Phillip Gordon, LL.D., chief of a Chippewa tribe in northern Wisconsin, the only priest in the country who is a full-blooded Indian chief. Father Gordon is a graduate of St. Thomas' college, St. Paul, Minn. 
Two old political rivals were brought together at the dinner which followed the comemncement exercises in the dining halls. Former U. S. Senator James E. Watson and former Gov. Smith, were seated close at the banquet table. 
The climax of the program was reached with the Laetare medal cele­bration that started in the beautifully decorated gymnasium at 9 o'clock. Seven recipients of the medal were present to participate in the Univer­sity's celebration of the 50th anni­versary of the medal's origin by Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C, founder of Notre Dame. These past medalists were Charles D. Maginnis, Dr. Stephen J. Maher, Miss Margaret Anglin, Dr. James J. Walsh, Jack J. Spalding, Edward N. Hurley, and Mr. McCormack. 
The ovation that was accorded for­mer Gov. Smith when he entered the gymnasium and took his seat on the flower decked platform while the Uni­versity bany played again "The Side­walks of New York," was rivalled by the reception of Mr. McCormack. It was the crowd's first sight of Mc­Cormack for he had not arrived until late in the afternoon. For his benefit the band played, "Believe Me If All Those Endearing Young Charms." 
Bishop Noll first addressed the audience, delivering the benediction of Pope Pius XI upon the entire as­sembly to him from Rome. It was the pontiff's tribute to Notre Dame's Laetare celebration. 
It was a typical Smith crowd that cheered him when he stepped to the microphone. "Well, . . ." he began. A big "well" and the crowd loved it. He proceeded to crack Jokes and tell stories and finally got down to the serious business of introducing the speakers of the evening. 
First was Dr. Walsh, who spoke on behalf of the men who have re­ceived the Laetare medal in the past. Miss Anglin then reviewed the lives and works of the ten women who have been recipients of the honor. 
Because of the great significance of the Laetare Medal in the history of Notre Dame, the ALUMNUS reprints separately the complete texts of the talks by Miss Anglin and Dr. Walsh. 
Briefly but beautifully in language of classic purity Father O'Donnell, who took little part in the day's func­tions because of his ill health, then made the presentation address. He looked tired and wan but there was a ring of fiery eloquence in his voice as he said: 
"Sir, in this golden jubilee year of the Laetare medal, the University of Notre Dame places your name on the honor roll of her award. She invites you into the company of men and women -who have given worthy ex­pression to Catholic practice in their lives and exalted the Catholic name by achieving the high rank in a career. Your Catholic faith has been the inspiration of your art; your ranking in that art has been attested to alike by the discerning and by the lowly. The music critic has paid you his tribute; and beside home fires hearts have been hushed by your magic. You have brought poetry from books to human 'lives. Unheard 
June, loss THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS 235 
beauties you have made audible; sim­ple, homely things you have taken from kitchen and fireside to the white­ness and brightness of theaters. You have captured Irish ballads from cross-roads, from countrysides, and by a wizardry of tone have transformed them into new, beautiful essences. You have made Ireland's voice audible to millions who have never seen Ire­land's face. 
"Your art has ministered to faith, patriotism, love, to the simple, holy dreams of poor folk who for so long had been waiting a minstrel. High things you have done highly, exhibit­ing mastery. For that critics acclaim you. You have exalted the humble; and the love of the humble goes to you. You have excelled, have been acclaimed, honored, named and re­named in the rolls of renown. And in winning so much you have not lost the one thing necessary. 
"Therefore the University of Notre Dame honors the faith that is in you, pays homage to the nobility of the art which you express, bestowing her award upon you who express it so competently. 
"In recognition of your devotion to the faith of your fathers, your un­heralded charities, and that voice of yours which has soared high to cap­ture beauty, and searched sequestered places of the earth to discover the simpler melodies of lonely human hearts, the University of Notre Dame honors you. She asks you, John Mc-Cormack, to accept the Laetare medal for this year of Our Lord 1933. May you find as much joy in receiving as the University of Notre Dame takes in bestowing." 
The medal was then pinned by Father O'Donnell on the lapel of Mr. MeCormack's coat, and the great singer who was hailed by Smith as the "greatest of all time," took on himself a new role in delivering despite nervousness one of the most effective speeches of the day. He said: 
"In the presence of such a dis­tinguished company, comprising as it does most eminent divines, statesmen, scholars and what is still more em­barrassing, embryonic specimens of all these, is it any wonder that I stand before you with awe in my soul and a deep sense of utter unworthi­ness in my heart? Can you wonder that I cannot find words to express to you tonight my joy, my pride and my unfathomable gratitude for the great honor that has come to me. 
"The Laetare medal — magical words. Oh! I would that my tongue could utter the thoughts that arise in me at their very sound. 
"Long before I had ever dreamed of the possibility of being numbered amongst the fortunate ones upon whom Our Holy Father in his benefi­cence might smile, I knew all about the Laetare medal and secretly envied those on whom it was conferred. I vividly recall reading in the Catholic News in 1910 the name of that splen­did diplomat and writer, Maurice Francis Egan. Each succeeding year with ever-increasing interest, I watched for the name of the fortu­nate nominee. Notre Dame and Lae­tare became synonymous, Notre Dame and happiness and rejoicing and joy became as one in my mind. It shall ever remain so. 
"I have been wondering why Notre Dame should hold such a weird fascin­ation for me for all these years. Perhaps some psychoanalyst could ex­plain it. Can it be that the coming event of the Four Horsemen was cast­ing its shadow upon me ? Perhaps it was the Fighting Irish with such splendid Gaelic names as Carideo and Savoldi and Popodopulis and Schwartz­bach, that were exerting on my young Irish mind what I might call a pre-Laetare influence. Whatever it was, it, in any event, existed, and in abso­lute truth, I can assure that I had al­ways from that time on had the ambi­tion one day to be the recipient of this great honor. In no sense of false modesty do I now confess that I never thought that I would stand as I do here tonight with the precious medal on my breast. 
"We have an old saying in Ireland, 'tell me your company and I'll teU you what you are.' If I am to be judged by that company in which I find my­self tonight, then with head erect do I proclaim from the housetops—^I am in the company of such men as Bourke Cochran and Dr. Addis Emmett, or Miss Mary Merrick and Margaret Anglin, of Admiral Benson and that most beloved Catholic statesman, Al­fred Emanuel Smith. 
"I hope I will not be misunderstood if I express the opinion that I think it a strange coincidence that in these days of 'sturm und drang,' national and international, that the Laetare medal should be conferred on a hum­ble disciple of harmony. Music is the celestial art and harmony is its essence. Therefore, speaking abso­lutely impersonally, I cannot but feel that in calling attention to the celestial art of music in the presence of the future makers of our country, and in attracting and at least pro tempore concentrating their thoughts on harmony, we are doing a useful, a helpful and constructive thing. 
"I pray fervently that the discords which seem to be reverbrating throughout the world may soon be re­solved and that harmony may reign again, that a concord of sweet sounds may soon banish the raucous rum­blings of mutual distrust. 
"In conclusion, even if I had the great oratorical gift of Bourke Coch­ran, I could never tell you how proud, how happy, how inexpressibly gnrate­ful I am for the great honor which has come to me from Notre Dame. Words are futile things at such a mo­ment. It would be so much easier for . me to sing my thanks. Truly has Thomas Moore sung: 
'Music IJ oh how faint how weak 
language fades before thy spell 
Why should feelinff ever speak when 
thou canst breathe her soul so well.* 

"Thank you, then, dear Notre Dame, from my Irish heart of hearts. May God bless you, direct you, pros­per you and keep you in the Palm of His Mighty Hand." 
He had no more than done when the crowd was on its feet clamoring for him to sing, afraid that he might not. Although tired, he consented and sang, "The Prayer Perfect." The crowd wanted more. He sang one encore. "Believe Me If All Those En­dearing Young Charms," then begged off. The band played. Father O'Don­nel and Mr. Smith rose to go, the crowd pushed forward to see the celebrities as they filed out, the crowd followed them, the band ceased its music, the gymnasium was emp­tied. The S9th annual commencement of the University of Notre Dame was over. 
Friday opened the Commencement with an intimation of the caliber of the programs and the record crowds that were to come. (Chronology in the story of the week-end Avill prob­ably serve the best purpose.) 
Registration 
Alumni began coming in the early part of the week, and Friday's reg­istration pointed to a return from all Classes and places. Alumni and Dil­lon Halls were set apart, and during the course of the week-end filled to capacity, with an overflow of 40 or .50 alumni in Howard. Attendance, by Classes, appears in the back of the book. The Universitj' golf course drew the early arrivals out into the fine weather that prevailed during the week-end. 

President's Address 
In the absence of Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, whose health per­mitted him only the pleasure of at­tending the Sunday e.\ercises, IJev. 
M. A. Mulcaire, C.S.C, vice-presi­dent, addressed the Class of 1933 in Washington Hall at 12:45 Friday afternoon in the annual President's -Address. 


Varsity-Alumni Baseball 
This account doesn't come properly under the heading of athletics, and still less under that of baseball. The score of 14 to 6 is immaterial because it doesnt' tell the story of the heroics of the alumni in their defeat by the varsity June 3 in the commencement game. 
The first palm should go to Hugh (Red) Magevenj', who held the var­sity to 16 hits, two of which were clean. The others went into the book as bingles, merely because what Red was using for support couldn't get under the pop flies and handle-hits of the varsity. Red also got three hits, including a double to score two runs and drive in another. 

An orchid to "Rangy" Miles for his triple, and double which drove in two runs and allowed him to score once himself. 
Further plaudits should go to Bill Sheehan, who organized the old-tim­ers, Falvey, Bader, Botts Crowley, Hunk Anderson and Mageveny for not making errors. It might be ex­plained that Bader didn't have any chances. 

For the varsity, chief honors, as far as the alumni are concerned, go to George Keogan, who relieved Steve Banas in the sixth and allowed four runs to score. 
Since he is now an alumnus, Arnie Seidl, varsity left flelder, should have recognition for his four singles in four trips. He scored four times and drove in two runs. 
Clovis AVhite, third baseman, has two more years of competition, so we can't give him too much credit for driving in four runs and scoring twice after his single and an error. 
Banas, who gave up only three hits and one run in five innings, drew the ire of the alumni when he spiked Col. Anderson on first base in the sec­ond inning, forcing the Colonel to retire to the julep room. Eye-wit­nesses say the Colonel jabbed his leg back under Steve's descending spikes, but we wouldn't give a nickel for Steve's chances of making the .varsity next fall, even if George Melinkovich doesn't recuperate from the yellow jaundice. 
Bader's single in the fourth inning brought him a lo^'-ely bouquet of doubtful vintage. The presentation was made to the tune of clicking cameras at first base. The guards of honor were Director of Athletics Noble Kizer of Purdue, who thinks Purdue will whip the old alma mam­my Nov. 11 next; Business Manager Art Haley (who has just announced that you can buy season tickets on the installment plan); St. Joe Valley Alumni Ex-President Ed Meehan, and Assistant Business Manager Herb Jones. 
Box score: 

Alumni AB R H PO A Miles, ss 5 12 3 1 Sheehan. 2b 2 0 1 0 2 Falvey. rf 1110 0 Bader. If 3 110 0 Kline. 3b 2 1 0 3 1 Moore. r[ 10 0 0 0 Ronay. 2b 2 0 0 0 1 Farrel. of 10 0 0 0 Martin, cf 0 0 0 10 Anderson, lb 1 0 0 3 1 Crowley. lb 3 0 0 2 0 Andres, c 2 0 0 5 0 Shoeketski. c 2 0 0 4 0 Masevcny. P 4 2 3 0 2 
29 6 8 21 8 
Varsity AB R H PO A Cunha, 2b 3 1113 Kane, ss 4 3 2 6 3 Seitll. r£ 4 4 4 2 0 Rascher. rf 5 1 1 0 0 White 3b 4 2 2 0 5 Costcllo. lb 4 0 1 8 0 Matthews, cf 3 0 0 1 0 Vclcheck. cf 2 1 1 0 0 0•^feill. c 2 0 .1 1 0 Robison. c 1 0 0 1 0 Rickard. c 1 0 0 4 0 Banas. p 3 2 2 0 1 Iveoi;wn p 10 10 0 
37 14 16 24 12 
Alumni 000 101 3 1—6 
Varsity 2 02 531 J x—14 
Errors—Miles. Kline, Moore, Farrel, Shee­kctski, Andres, Cunha, Banas. Two-base hits —MaKC\*eny, Miles, Falvey. Three-base hits— Miles, Banas. Runs batted in—White 4, Miles 2, Costcllo 2. Seidl 2. Farrel, Kline, Falvey, Cunha, Rascher, Keo;ran. Hits—off Banas 3 in five innincs. Struck out—Maffeveny 7. Banas 2. Keosan 1. Bases on balls—Mace­veny 6. Banas 1, KeoRan 4. Hit by pitched ball—Martin by Keo;^n. Stolen bases—Seidl 2, Kane, O'Neill, Wild pitches—MaRcveny, Keosan, Banas. Left on base —alumni 9, varsity 8. 


Fourth Club Council 
Decreased attendance, the result of Friday scheduling, presenting an un­fortunate condition which will be remedied next year, the Fourth An­nual Council of Local Alumni Clubs nevertheless met in the Faculty Lounge of the Dining Halls and dis­cussed a number of ideas of definitely constructive merit in the Club organ­ization of the Association. Detroit, Toledo, Chicago, Cleveland, Roches­ter, New Jersey, Eastern Pennsyl­vania, New York, and the St. Joseph Valley, were the Clubs represented. President Clarence Manion presided at the meeting. 
Father Mulcaire, on behalf of the University, welcomed the representa­tives; expressed the University's ap­preciation of the work of the Clubs; asked the Club co-operation at all times with the assertion that the ad­ministration, whatever its actions might be or seem to be, always worked with the best interests of the University as the sole objective; out­lined the present student situation, cost of education, comparative fig­ures, and encouraged a continuation of the appreciated student contact program already in effect in the Clubs in many cities. 
Mr. Frank Lloyd, Comptroller of the University, spoke to the Council on the possibility and the urgency of Club support of the payment of Alumni Association dues, outlining the Association costs and needs. 
Mr. Thomas Byrne, former presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland, outlined the system of Club organization and activity which produced in Cleveland last year prob­ably the most intensive and well-executed Club program in the history of the Clubs. 
Mr. Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., chairman of the luncheon committee of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, gave a short discussion of the fac­tors which have made the weekly luncheons of the Chicago Club an in­tegral part of that Club's program. 

Mr. Bernard VoII, former president of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, was unable to be pres­ent, but sent a paper outlining the history of the Football banquet, which has become, under the auspices of the local Club, a national institu­tion. 
Mr. William A. Daunt, chairman of the Lay Retreat of the Notre Dame Club of New York, also sent a paper on the recent successful Re­treat there. 
Mr. Thomas Farrell of the Notre Dame Club of New Jersey, obligingly spoke on both Lay Retreats, which the New Jersey Club pioneered, and the contacting of prospective stud­ents, which has also been actively promoted over a long period by the Jersey organization. 
The Council had the pleasure of listening also to Registrar Robert Riordan on the subject of student contacts. The Registrar spoke both in appreciation of what has been done and in the hope of what may be done by the alumni in this im­portant phase of activity. 
Discussion of all of these points was participated in by the represen­tatives. It was also agreed that the District Governors can be utilized to greater advantage in the organiza­tion and promotion of Club activities. 

Class Reunions 

As usual, the Commencement rep­resented a General Reunion, with most of the Reunion Classes failing to identify themselves particularly. Two e.Kceptions stand out—one the 5­Year Class of 192S, which broke all Class Reunion records here with a registration of more than 100 mem­bers. A dinner and meeting at the Knights of Columbus Hall, South Bend, Friday night, brought SO of the Class together, the rest coming in during Saturday. To Class Secretary Louis Buckley, and the efficient Local Committee go the appreciation and credit for the success of the Reunion. 
Secretary Paul Castner, of the Class of 1923, arranged a dinner for the Class at the Oliver Hotel, South Bend, Friday night, and then was called out of the city until Saturday. But the affair was turned over to Joe Nyikos, and went off on schedule to the edification of the 25 members on hand for it. 
With the Alumni Banquet coming on Saturday night, with its provision for Reunion Classes, and with the Sunday program so filled, the jVlunmi Office appreciates fully the difficulties of arranging special Reunion affairs. And it seems, in view of the lack of emphasis on Class organization on the campus, the General Reunion spirit which prevails at Notre Dame at Commencement, ought not to be jeopardized any further than the present system, though improvement can be effected in many ways without ^nv risk. 

Band Concert 
The University Band, closing one of its best years, pleased a large crowd on the Main Quadrangle at 7 o'clock, Friday night, %vith its annual Commencement Concert. The range of the Band program is a definite tribute to the talents of the boys as musicians, and their performance adds no little to the laurels of Joseph Casasanta, '23. as Director. 


"Richelieu" 
Notre Dame's rich tradition of the drama gained another victory with 

. the excellent production of one of the stage's most difficult dramas, "Riche­lieu." Originally scheduled for the Gymnasium, and played there the Monday preceding Commencement, the play was returned to Washington Hall for better acoustics, and over­came this handicap of changing facili­ties to hold a packed audience on a hot night through its five acts. 
The South Bend Tribune com­mented editorially: 
Comment on the 89th commence­ment would be incomplete without an expression of appreciation of the University theater presentation of "Richelieu." For the last perform­ance of the 1932-33 season Director Frank W. Kelly and associates select­ed one of the most difficult vehicles, "Richelieu" is colorful, yet definitely "dated"; and its presentation by amateurs these days, considering the 
THE LAETARB PRESENTATION 

Left to right: Mr. McCormack, Father O'Donnell, Mr. Smith, Bishop Noll, Dr. Walsh. 
sophistication of a motion picture era audience, is a dangerous under­taking. The Notre Dame players covered themselves with glory. The title role, which has tested the abil­ities of some of the world's greatest actors was filled by Prof. A. L. Doyle, of the university faculty and Misha­waka city judge, in a manner that intensified the opinion that the pro­fessional stage lost an excellent actor when he decided to practice law. 


Mass For Deceased Alumni 
Saturday morning, in Sacred Heart Church, Rev. Francis Ott celebrated the Requiem Mass for Alimmi, as­sisted by Rev. Charles Hamel, C.S.C, and Rev. Norman Johnson, C.S.C, both members of the Class of '28. 
Last Visit and Class Day 
The Seniors in cap and gown moved to the Church for the private ceremony which has become so beau­tiful a feature of the Commencement week-end, the Last Visit. 
From there, the procession moved to Washington Hall for the Class Day exercises and the award of hon­ors. Francis Werner, president of the Class, gave a short address of welcome. James Joseph Boyle deliv­ered the Class Oration. Cornelius Joseph Laskowski, C.S.C, read his Class Poem. Michael Joseph Leding gave the Valedictory. The University orchestra played before and after the ceremonies. 
Awards of prizes, many of them given by or in memory of, men known and admired by alumni, were as follows: 
1.
 The Breen medal for excellence in Oratory, presented by the honor­able, the late William P. Breen of the class of 1877, is awarded to: Maurice Earl Powers, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Indiana. 

2.
 The Meehan gold medal, the gift of the late Mrs. Eleanore Meehan, of Covington, Ky., for the senior who writes the best essay in English, is awarded to Mr. Robert Vincent Ful­ton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

3.
 The electrical engineering medal, presented by Dr. Jose Angel Caparo, ScD., of the class of 1908, in mem­ory of his father, for the best record in all courses prescribed in the four year electrical engineering program, is awarded to Mr. Michael John Led­ing, E.E., South Bend, Indiana. 

4.
 The Dockweiler medal for phil­osophy, founded in memory of his deceased father, by Mr. Isadore Dock­weiler, of Los -Ajigdes, Calif., for the best essay on some philosophical sub­ject, senior year, is awarded to Mr. Charles James Fiss, Oshkosh, Wis. 


"5. The Lehn and Fink medal for pharmacy, awarded annually by Lehn & Fink, wholesale druggists and manufacturing chemists. New York City, to promote the advance­ment of pharmacy, for the senior in pharmacy who has the highest ave­rage in his work is awarded to Mr. Zigmund Henry Kitkowski, South Bend, Indiana. 

6.
 The Monsignor F. A. O'Brien prize was founded in 1917, by a gift of one thousand dollars from Mr. Edwin 0. Wood, of Flint, Mich., in honor of the Right Reverend Mon­signor F. A. O'Brien, D. D., of Kal­amazoo, Mich., for special study and distinction in an historical subject, the income from this fund is awarded to Mr. Frederick August Schmidt, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. 

7.
 The Meyers Burse, founded in 1920, by a gift of five hundred dol­lars from Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Myers, of the class of 1920, for general ex­cellence in the department of journ­alism is awarded to Mr. Frederick Joseph Curran, Mauston, Wis. 

8.
 The William Mitchell Memorial award for playwriting, fifty dollars, founded in 1928 by a gift of one thousand dollars from Mr. Joseph V. Mitchell, in honor of his son, is awarded to Mr. David Patrick Pow­ers, New York City. 

9.
 A nimiber of public spirited cit­izens of the City of South Bend have cooperated in the establishment of money prizes of fifty dollars and twenty-five dollars each. The prizes are for members of the senior class and are awarded as follows: Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. Albert Russell Erskine, president of the Studebaker corporation, for excellence in machine design (has been divided) and is awarded to: 525 to Mr. Chester A. Barbeck, San Antonio, Texas; $25 to Mr. Francis Joseph O'Keefe Chicago, Illinois. 

10.
 Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. Miles O'Brien of the South Bend Lathe Works, South Bend, Indiana, for excellence in mechanical drawing has been awarded to: $25 to Mr. Ralph James Furstoss, Chicago, Illi­nois; $25 to Mr. Frederick Patrick Zietlow, Indianapolis, Indiana. 

11.
 Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. John J. O'Brien of the South Bend Lathe Works, South Bend, Ind., for excellence in shopwork, is awarded to Mr. Michael John Leding, South Bend, Indiana. 

12.
 Twenty-five dollars, offered by Mr. Gallitzen A. Farabaugh, attorney at law, for high legal scholastic achievement in the college of law, is awarded to William Rea Desenberg Buchanan, Mich. 

13.
 The Hoynes award, established in 1926, by a gift from the late Wil­liam James Hoynes, LL.D., dean emeritus of the college of law. The income, amounting to one hundred dollars, is awarded to the member of the graduating class in the program leading to the degree of bachelor of laws, who has the highest average, 


in scholastic grades, application; de­portment, and achievement together with fitting qualifications for admis­sion to the bar and to the practice of law. This prize is awarded to John Michael Crimmins, Anderson, Ind. 
14.
 Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, Chica­go, 111., A.B., 1904, has made ar­rangements to offer an annual prize of two hundred dollars to the senior monogram athlete who has been adjudged most exemplary as a stud­ent and as a leader of men. This prize is awarded to Charles Joseph Jaskwhich, Kenosha, Wis. 

15.
 Fifty dollars, awarded annual­ly by the Notre Dame club of Chica­go, to the student who graduates ^vith the highest average for the last three years of the college course in which he is graduated, is awarded to Mr. Ralph James Furstoss, Chicago, 111. 

16.
 The architectural medal, pre­sented by the American Institute of Architects, to each of the member schools of the association of Colleg­iate Architecture, to be awarded to the student graduate who has the highest average for the entire course, is presented to Mr. Louis Reuben Chreist, Jr., South Bend, Indiana. 

17.
 Fo r additional prizes, the American Institute offers two copies of Henry Adams' book, St. Michael and Chartres. The books are awarded as follows: Mr. La^vrence Joseph Stitt, Chillicothe, Ohio; Mr. Charles Joseph Medland, Logansport, Indiana. 

18.
 The Kervick gold medal for architecture, awarded in memory of Nellie Wynn Kervick, to the student of the junior class, whose work dur­ing his first three years in architec­ture has been of exceptional merit, has been awarded to: Mr. Frederick Robert Kellog, Rock Springs, Wyo­ming. 

19.
 The Joan of Arc medal is awarded to: Mr. David Wendel Dal­rymple. South Bend, Indiana. 

20.
 Rober t James Fitzsimmons, Benton Harbor, Michigan, man most likely to succeed.—Faculty prize. 

21.
 Michael J. Leding—a gold watch from the College of Engineer­ing. 



The Baseball Game 

Michigan State brought its snappy baseball squad to Cartier Feld and with utter disregard for the occasion, and Notre Dame's big league tradi­tions, added the final defeat of the season to the Irish record. 

The Alumni Banquet 

One thousand alumni, including the Class of 1933, broke all records (and emphasized the remarkable fac­ilities of the University Dining Halls) at the Alimmi Banquet in the East Hall of the Dining Halls on Saturday Night. 
Because of the crowded program of the week-end, the heat, and the un­certainty of arrival of the celebrated 
June, 1933 THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS 

Al Smith Speaks At Laetare Medal Presentation 
Throng of Admirers Thrilled and Pleased With Informal but Typical Remarks 
guests, only a skeleton program for 
the Banquet had been planned. But 
it turned out to be one of the most 
satisfactory in the Banquet history 
of the Association. 
Retiring President Manion, a toast­

master, of wide repute, conducted the 
affair. In an introductory address, 
he outlined the progress of the year, 
made suggestions for further devel­
opment, expressed his views as the 
result of his experience as president 
of the Association. 
Introduction of Rev. JM. A. Mul­caire, C.S.C, '17, vice-president of the University, to speak on behalf of the University in the absence of Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06, brought to alumni another of those pleasing and inspiring summaries of the year at Notre Dame—a year, in spite of the depression, which moved the University a definite step toward that Greater Notre Dame whose hor­izon has been drawing so close. Fath­er Mulcaire stressed particularly the fine report which the North Central Association received on Notre Dame athletics, absolving the University of all the mythical charges leveled against Notre Dame. He listed the deaths of alumni and faculty which have brought their quota of sorrow to the year just closed. And he praised the alumni for their advice and support, urging continuing in­terest and participation of alumni in the development of the University. 
Byron V. Kanaley, newly elected Honorary president of the Associa­tion, gave a most pleasing talk, with the exception of attributing to his office the recognition of age, an accus­ation completely out of keeping with his appearance, voice and activities generally, not to mention actual age. 
The highlight of the Banquet was the introduction of Rev. Charles Coughlin, who arrived Saturday aft­ernoon, and the brief but eloquent address which he delivered in the beautiful voice which has become so familiar to millions of American radio listeners. The theme of Father Coughlin's remarks at the Banquet was the teaching of Christ, and his apostles as the first alumni. Father Coughlin, speaking on the eve of Pentecost, urged Notre Dame alumni, as Christ urged his disciples, to use the great gifts of their Faith in their various ways and places of life.., 
President Manion finally yielded the meeting to M. Harry Jliller, '10, newly elected president of the Asso­ciation, who, after a short inaugural talk promising a "new deal" and continuing development of the Asso­ciation, adjourned the meeting. 

Glee Club Concert 

Another event, running concurrent­ly with the Alumni Banquet, was turning away crowds from the new 
by America's Great 

"Unless the New York producers 
realize that the public does not want 
cheap and smutty drama, there will 
be need soon to clamp a censorship 
on the spoken drama," said former 
Gov. Alfred E. Smith, of New York, 
when he addressed a crowd estimated 
at G,000 Sunday night, June 4, at the 
Laetare medal golden jubilee celebra­
tion in the University of Notre Dame 
gymnasium. 
Former Gov. Smith's attack on the 
conditions of the drama in New York 
was in introduction to Miss Margaret 
Anglin, famous New York actress, 
who spoke at the Laetare golden 
jubilee celebration. 
"She is one of the foremost ac­
tresses in America," he said. "But 
that doesn't mean a thing. What is 
more important is that she has held a 
steadfast position for clean drama 
and the Lord knows we need it." 
Former Gov. Smith was chairman 
of the program which featured the 
presentation of the 1933 Laetare 
award to John McCormack. Most 
Rev. John Francis Noll, D.D., bishop 
of Fort Wayne presided. 
While camera lights flashed and the crowd roared its approval, Mr. Smith advanced to the microphones at the fore of the platform. 
"There is an unwritten tradition that neither the chairman nor toast­master of a program is supposed to speak. "Well ... " he began with a large flourish of his arms. "It's all that I expected and then some." He referred to the day's program. 
"As I sat here this afternoon and saw these young men file past to re­ceive their diplomas I was glad to see New Y'ork so well represented in each group. In fact, New York is well represented on the entire pro­gram, I'm pleased to see." 
He then remarked on having heard as he entered the building, "the strains of a familiar tune," and told how "The Sidewalks of New York" had originally been attached to his name. 
"In 1924," he said, "I left New York 
and decorative portal of Washington Hall. The Glee Club, under the direc­tion of Joseph Casasanta, '23, which is now appearing at leading theaters in the principal cities of the East and \vill close at Chicago in .September, gave one of its varied and excellent programs to guests and the widows and children of Banqueting alumni. 

Chimes and Organ Recital 
Instead of the Studebaker Band's annual concert this year, the visitors on Saturday evening enjoyed a spe­
Catholic Statesman. 
for the national convention at San Francisco. There was an understand­ing that until New York knew what to do with its 90 delegates I was to be its candidate for president. I was not very well known then." 
Bourke Cochran, he said, during his speech nominating Smith, made some oratorical reference to Smith's having risen from the sidewalks of New York. 
At that convention, he said, each candidate was assigned a favorite tune that was played by a brass band with a little Italian leader whenever the opportunity offered. One of the candidates had selected "The Side­walks" as his theme song. But when Cochran made a grand oratorical ref­erence to Smith's rise from the side­walks of New York, the Italian band leader thought it the cue. for that piece and though the band didn't play it very well, he had no trouble get­ting all the New York sidewalk votes as a result and the tune dug to him. 
"In fact," he said, "they said of me that I had to sing to get elected, that I was elected after I had gone around singing a song." 
Former Gov. Smith's peculiarities of speech, so strange to a midwestem audience, drew applause and laughter from the crowd at every evidence of a lapse into "foist" or "the like." 
"I can think of no man in America today that is more deserving of this honor from Notre Dame," he said, referring to the award of the Laetare medal to Mr. McCormack. "When God gives great gifts he has the right to expect great returns, and McCormack has always used the great gift of his voice for the support and relief of those less fortunate." 
This was the only public speaking done by Mr. Smith during his stay on the Notre Dame campus or in South Bend. It was his first visit to Notre Dame. 
"I have been waiting for four years to come," he told the audience, "and it was worth while." 
(From the South Bend Tribune) 

cial recital of the chimes and the organ in Sacred Heart Church, broad­cast through special amplifiers to the Main Quadrankle by Mr. Willard Groom, member of the faculty of the music department. 


Monogram Luncheons 

After considerable uncertainly as to time and place, the Monogram Club finally gathered in the East Hall of the Dining Halls on Sunday noon for a very enjoyable luncheon in keeping with the old tradition. 


Address by the Hon. Paul V. McNutt, Governor o( Indiana 
A t the Eishty-Ninth Annual Commencement Exetcises o( the Uni«cnity of Nottc D«mc 
Mr. President, Reverend fathers, Distinguished guests. Members of the Graduation Class: 
In the closing pages of Plato's Republic is found the story of the prophet who said to the souls of men given a chance to come back to this world and choose the lives they should lead: "Hear the words of Lachesia, daughter of Necessity: Mortal souls, behold a new cycle of life and mortal­ity! Let him who draws the first lot have the first choice, and the life that he chooses shall be his destiny. Vir­tue is free, and as a man honors her he will have more or less of her. The responsibility is with the loser, God is justified!" 
The life you choose shall be your destiny, as well as the destiny of yonr generation. 
You leave the University during a critical period, a time of stress and change. The change carries with it the possibility of far reaching con­sequence. It offers the opportunity to prove that free people can meet any crisis, however great. It calls for leadership based upon patriotism. 

courage, intelligence, and humility. The patriotism must be a new, a greater, a continuous patriotism. Some look upon patriotism as a thing reserved for armed conflict. We wait for the blare of martial music, the sound of marching feet and the rum­ble of the caisson to quicken the pulse and inspire devotion to the com­mon cause. They are sustained by the excitement of the moment and lose all interest in public matters when the hostilities cease. Such in­termittent attention to the general welfare does not satisfy the public needs. 
The struggle to restore economic equilibrium is as grim and as real as any war. It calls for the same un­selfish service, energy, intelligence and solidarity. It requires the same willingness to give all that we are and all that we hope to be without thought of reward save the accom­plishment of high purposes. It de­mands nothing more — a critical and searching examination of all agencies to see which, if any, have outlived their usefulness. This is the time for perfect candor — no bragging, no pre­tense that things are better than they are, no tolerance of what should not be tolerated. Such patriotism is nec­
essary if we are to weather the pres­
ent economic storm. 

Patriotism without courage is of little avail. I have been deeply con­cerned by the pessimism of many of our people during recent months. Some of them, as individuals, repeat Kipling's pagan psalm, founded on the story in the tenth chapter of Luke which tells how Martha, who was cumbered with much serving, while Mary sat at Jesus' feet, came to Jesus and said, "Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her, therefore, that she help me." Whereupon Jesus answered and said, "Martha, Martha, thou are careful and troubled about many things. But one thing is needful, and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken awav from her." 
Mr. ICipling has taken the part of Martha and her kind, who, he, says: 
". . . Must await upon Mary*s sons. 

World without end, reprieve or rest. It is their care in at! aces to Take the buffet and cushion the shock: It is their care that the Rear frajres: It is their care that the switches lock. They finffer death at their RIOVC'S end "When they piece and replace the livinc wires. He roars against the sate they Tend: they feed him hungry behind their fires. 
To these from birth in bdicf forbidden 
They are concerned with matters hidden: 
Under the earth line their attars are. 
Lift yet the stone or cleave the wood. 
To mal^e a path more fair or flat— 
Lol It is black already with blood 
Some Eons of Martha spilled for that!" 
Meanwhile, he says, the sons of Mary 
". . . sit at the feet, and they hear the Word. They know how truly the promise runs They have cast their burden upon the Lord, and—the Lord, He lays it on Martha's sons." 
It is true that most of you are the children of Martha. You are cum­bered with much serving. You are to bear the burden and the heat of the days. You are to be weary of the work which you have chosen and in­tolerably weary with the drudgery which you have not chosen. Y'ou are to enter fine fields of enterprise and to see yourselves growing quickly old with only a little accomplished. You are to find yourselves blamed for do­ing the right thing when it happens to be the unpopular thing. You are to begin in the freedom of youth and you are to end each in his own prison of habits. You are to face society bearing its ancient hereditary burden of tasks, of iniquity, of sorrows, and to find presently that something of all of this has been laid on you. 
You can bear all of this and not be a pessimist. Y'ou can know the worst without surrender. It is possible to meet life as the best men of the great races have done with indomitable courage (which a few of our great leaders have today) and indestructible hope (hope which many of us are living). 
Other pessimists fear for society as a whole. They say that the structure of society is threatened by Commu­nism of Russia, not alone by its propaganda but likewise by its al­leged power to undersell and thus bankrupt the entire world. They say that dull-witted, vain and insolent we clap roundly on the rump the four horses of the apocalypse and bid them to prepare anew to trample the hu­man herd. They say that in spite of our science and invention, or be­cause of them, we are approaching a period such as that which followed the decline of the Roman Empire. Even such a man as Henry Adams, descendant of presidents, student of affairs both economic and political, says that he sees upon the scroll of destiny for the United States of America, four frightful choices: first, the pessimism of Europe's dying civi­lization; second, the tyranny of capi­tal of labor; third, a return "to mysti­cism; or fourth, a ceaseless reitera­tion of the old processes under new guises at a monotonous level. 
Does Mr. Adams mean that he has 
lost faith in our peoples? Does he mean that he has lost faith in the ability of the masses as contrasted . with heroes, the miracle men of the classes, to work out by reasonably 
adequate methods the issues which are raised by the flow of time ? Sure­ly he does not mean that. Every page of our history refutes such statement. 
Does Mr. Adams mean that he has lost faith in the genius of the Ameri­can people? A genius which has pro­duced more by way of scientific achievement during the last decade and a half than has been produced during any half century of the world's history. Certainly that same genius is with us. Certainly it can produce for us those things which are abso­lutely essential for health, security, some share of this world's goods, some leisure time in which to enjoy that share, some ability and some de­sire to make a worthwhile contribu­tion to the sum of things as they are. 
I wish to be counted among those who deny the most of these prophecies of evil and who defy the rest. Who are these prophets and w^here have they been? 
To use the words of Carlyle, "they have been nowhere but where we also have been and have seen at most a few handbreadths deeper than we now see into the ocean, which is without bottom and without shore." Rather than choose the words of some of these major and minor Jeremiahs, I would invite your attention to the words of a man who faced crises in his day and a man who stood at Val­ley Forge 'midst privation and suf­fering and kept his faith, kept his faith in his men, kept his faith in his nation which was to be, kept his faith in his God. Washington said then— and his words are particularly appli­cable now—^"The game is yet in our hands. To play it well is all we have to do. Nothing but honesty, har­mony, industry, and frugality are necessary to make us a great and happy people." The game, is yet in our own hands. To play it well is all loe have to do. Nothing but honesty, harmony, industry, and frugality are necessary to keep us a great and happy people. 
I do not blame these pessimists when I realize that a few short months ago we had in this country all of the things which the writer of Utopian literature thought necessary to the perfect state. We had plenty of money. We had literally millions of hands ready to work. We had no pest of wind or weather. We had no armed invader hammering at our gates to disturb our minds or to de­stroy the course of our enterprise. Y'et at that very moment the shadow of a great economic depression fell across the nation. 
It is necessary for us to make one of three choices. First, we could beat a retreat in the face of our manifest­ly serious problems. We could beat a retreat and follow the example of some of the countries on the continent of Europe and attempt to find relief in the disintegrative process of dic­tatorship, neither one of which has any place in the United States of America. I have been accused of choosing this second course. That is not true. Among other things govern­ment is a business and must be man­aged as a business. The people of Indiana have made their governor general manager of governmental ac­tivities. He is a constitutional officer elected by and responsible to the peo­ple. Instead of creating a dictator­ship the Indiana plan has made pos­sible the application of common sense and practical methods to the impor­tant business of government. 
We can make a second choice, fol­lowing the example of some of pur so-called captains of industry and some of our so-called leaders and edu­cators, that is dig ourselves in and merely attempt to preserve those in­stitutions which have grown through the years. No nation stands in one spot. It either moves forward or backward. Happily the faces of the American people have ever been turned forward. 
Therefore, in reality, we have but one choice is we would be worthy of the fine heritage which is ours, if we would save our souls from damnation. That is the choice which Foch made in the darkest year of the World War, when everything had gone against him. His choice was in the form of this message: "My left is giving way. My right is falling back. Therefore I am ordering a charge, a decisive attack by the center." We can order an attack, move forward with courage and determination under responsible and responsive leadership, solving our problems and bringing about a better social and economic era. We can then say to those prophets of evil that the shadows which some say are the lengthening shadows of the dusk in the United States of -America, are not the lengthening shadows of the dusk at all. They are the shortening shadows of the dawn of a better day. 
The third basis of today's leader­ship must be intelligence. Your di­ploma is not necessarily proof of that. It means that the University has done its part. 
The purpose of an education is to teach men how to think, to make them students for the remainder of their lives, students of great books, stu­dents of men, students of events. am particularly anxious that the members of your generation study most of the great and ever changing book which is the life of the people around you. God give you the power to read it deeply. You will know the wolf that is in us all, that sometimes we hunt together in packs, that some­times we tear each other to pieces over the carcass. You will understand how -we hunger and thirst and speak 
Alumni Preference Deadline Extended to Sept. 1st 
Athletic Association Annoujicements Reveal University's Desire to Co-operate With Alunmi and Public; Prices Promise Heavy Attendance. 
and barter our lives away for a little mess of pottage. But, ii you read deeply enough, you will see also that underneath the greed, the lust, the treachery, there is something worth saving. Jesus of Nazareth knew that and died that man might be saved. 
Lowell said that the final defense of Democracy is whether it can pro­duce the best men. The members of your generation have an opportunity to meet the test and to justify the faith of all who love freedom. The test will be the intelligent perform­ance of these immediate tasks: to provide food, clothing, and shelter to the destitute, the aged and the infirm; to lower the costs of government and to simplify its operations; to reduce and redistribute the burden of taxes; to maintain an adequate system of education; to promote the efficient ad­ministration of justice; to strengthen necessary social agencies; to remove special privilege from the seats of power; to offer every assistance in re­storing economic equilibrium, and to regain confidence in ourselves and in our institutions. 
Important as all these matters are, I wish to emphasize the first, without which the others are of little conse­quence. VThen the Savior said, "After this manner therefore pray ye," His first petition was, "Give us this day our daily bread." It is not that man lives by bread alone. Things of the spirit are likewise necessarj-. But it is significant that, through the ages, hungry people have been in the van­guard of every revolt against the es­tablished order. A hungry man is never rational in his attitude toward the life of the community or toward his own life. Therefore it is our busi­ness to make those adjustments which guarantee to every man the right to live as a normal human being. 
You enter upon your active life at a time when the lives and fortunes of the people are at stake. Who would refuse them the best fruits of our minds and hearts? Who would not choose the high course of action? Who would betray the great trust? Certainly no one who bears the mark of. this great University. 
The fourth requisite of your leader­ship must be a spirit of humility. It is necessary that you see your duty, that you conceive it in high terms and that you spend yourself not upon your own ambitions, but upon the duty which is before you. You must be humble in the presence of your great opportunity. There is work to be done, service to be rendered and sacrifice to be made in your home, in your occupation, in your church, in your community, in your state, and in your nation. Your question is what can I do, not what can be done for me. You brought nothing into the world in the beginning: you will take noth­ing out at the end. Your sole contri-
Announcements from the Univer­sity's athletic department bring wel­come news to thousands of Notre Dame alumni and non-alumni foot­ball fans. 
The following schedule of games and prices, scaled this year, speak for themselves: 
Oct. 7 Kansas at Notre Dame ?2- §1 Oct. 14 Indiana at Eloomington 2 Oct. 21 Carnegie Tech at Pitts­
burgh 3-1 Oct. 28 Pittsburgh at N. D 3-2-1 Nov 4 Navy at Baltimore 3-2 Nov 11 Purdue at Notre Dame 3-2-1 Nov. 18 N'western at Evanston 2.50 Nov 25 So. Calif, at N. D 4-3-2 Dec. 2 Army at New York 4 
All prices quoted are exclusive of the government tax of 10 per cent and the postage (twenty cents for each mailing). 
Season tickets for the games in the Notre Dame Stadium — Kansas, Pittsburgh, Purdue and Southern California—total value of $14.00 in­
bution to the sum of things will be yourself. Are you willing to place yourself upon the altar in order that iife may be better? The tradition of this place, its history, its fine contri­butions to all things worthwhile make me think that you are. Stalwart, humble men of God have made this institution, Father Corby, Father Thomas Walsh, Father Andrew Morrissey, Father John Cavanaugh, Father James Bums, Father Matthew Walsh, Father Charles O'Donnell. It is for you to prove yourselves worthy eluding tax and postage—are being offered for $11.20, including tax and postage, a saving of 20 per cent, with the usual advantages of location and sameness in seats for all games. In addition, this year, the Football Tick­ets Committee is accepting $3 as an order for a season ticket, the balance of $7, plus tax and postage, to be remitted on or before Sept. 1. 
The diagram attached shows the system of ticket distribution. Alumni who will scan this carefully can find little fault with the preference ex­tended to them. Difficulties usually arise from failure to observe one of the alumni rules to secure this pref­erence—have your order in on time, and have your dues paid on time. The sale opens .A.ugust 1 this year as usual. The deadline for handing in the names of alumni whose dues are paid, however, has been extended to September 1. 
The season ticket sale opened June 20. 
You can save a great deal of time for the.Alumni Office and yourselves if all football ticket matters are di­rected to the Football Ticket Com­mittee, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
-A.—Notre Dame Alumni 
B—Season Ticket Section 
C—Visiting Team Section 
I>—Xotro Dame Student Section 
E—Season Ticket Section 

of membership in that great company who made Notre Dame. 
A University is not to be found in buildings, magnificent as they may be. A University is to be found in its men. 
As I have told you in the beginning, the life you choose shall be your destiny. It shall also be the destiny of your beloved Alma Mater. God grant that you may be guided by the ancient phrase: "So teach us to num­ber our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom." 
June, 193S THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 


Golden Jubilee Brings History o( Laetare Medal 
Record of Awards Since 1883, Outlined by Margaret Anglin and Dr. James J. Walsh, Reveals Great and Sustained Merit in the Tradition of "The American Golden Rose" 
One of the features within a feat­ure was the summary history of the Laetare Medal from its beginning in 1883 to the present. Dr. James J. Walsh, famous physician, author and lecturer, familiar and beloved visitor on the Notre Dame campus, under­took the task of sketching the bril­liant array of Catholic laymen who have been honored with the award. Himself the applauded choice for the distinction in 1916, Dr. Walsh neces­sarily omitted one of the great fig­ures of the laity in America whom an Sc.D. in 1009 and the Medal in 1916 recognized for Notre Dame. 
Following is the history of the men who have received the Laetare Medal. (This paper closes with an introduc­tion of Miss Anglin, and is followed immediately by her beautiful tributes to the women Jledalists.) 
I first came to Notre Dame just about forty years ago to see the place and to spend an hour or two with my very dear friend, Dr. Austin O'Malley. At that time Notre Dame was the largest of the Catholic col­leges of this country though its at­tendance was in hundreds, scarcely more than it is in thousands now. The Laetare Medal had been con­ferred for the tenth time that year and the annual event was beginning to attract the attention that it de­ser\'ed. 
The numbers in our Catholic col­leges at that time and especially the numbers of collegians, for the enroll­ment in the Catholic colleges was swollen by the long lists of pupils in the preparatory school and even in the elementary department, were so few that it must have seemed to a great many almost impossible that worthy Catiiolic laymen as the years went on could be foimd for the award. It was true that the liberal spirit of the college stimulated undoubtedly by the sister institutions of St. Mary's, scarcely more than a mile away, had dictated the presentation of the third Laetare Medal to a woman, Eliza Allen Starr, and this doubled the number of candidates and showed at the same time how ready churchmen were to recognize women's rights in intellectual matters but even with addition it seemed as though avail­able candidates worthy of the distinc­tion would require very careful searching for. 
Now after fifty years we may look back and realize that the roll of 
honor thus created has been very 
worthily filled up and that there are 
men on it whose names u-ill be in 
benediction fo r generations an d 
whose work awaits them in the gates 
where they will surely illustrate very 
well the power of Catholic education 
to make men think of others rather 
than themselves. 
As one goes over this list carefully one almost inevitably comes to the conclusion that the example set by these men eminently deserved a dis­tinction which called attention to the unselfishness, a word which is for me much stronger than altruism, which characterized them. I doubt whether there is any list connected by any bond here in America that enrolls so many men whose significant distinc­tion was their thoughtfulness for others rather than themselves. Long ago He said, "And the second com­mandment is like unto the first, thou shalt love they neighbor as thyself." It was Kipling, I think, who once said, "Show me a man who thinks more about others than himself and I'll show you a man who will go far in making a real success in life." Well, this list of Laetare Medalists contains particularly a group of men who thought in terms of others. Over and over again one finds this illus­trated in their biographic sketches. 
Here we have a band of represen­tative American citizens, most of them modest, rather retiring schol­ars, whose achievements would be little known very often only for the fact that Notre Dame picked them out to honor them particularly and give them a place among her im­mortals. The best thing about the Laetare Medal award is that it pre­sents young Catholics with models for work in life that will make existence worth while indeed. Most of them, I am quite sure, had no idea of the honor that was coming to them, and least of all felt themselves worthy of it. Personal or political or social influence has meant nothing to the keepers of the lists, and the result is this distinctive group of Catholics that represent such an honor to us. Biography has come in with a rush in our time but much of its has fulfilled in Shakespeare's dictum, "the evil that men do lives after them and the good is oft in­terr'd with their bones." Above all autobiography has only too often partaken of the character of ought­not-obiography. Here is a list of incentives and exemplars well worth while. 
The very first to receive the Lae­tare Medal probably deserved that distinction better than anyone who has received it during the fifty years since. John Gilmary Shea was a genuine historian in the best sense of the term and he spent all his mature life in the gathering of ma­terials for the history of the Catholic Church in this coimtry. Time had to be taken off for what a distinguished anatomist called "chasing the damn dollar," because there was a family to support. His work is an enduring monument to his whole-hearted in­dustry and self-sacrificing devotion to a great cause. I count it as one of the distinctions of life to have known him and to have had the priv­ilege a few years after his death of paying tribute to him at the unveil­ing of a tablet in his honor at the door of the Newark cathedral. 
After him came Keely, a great architect, who more than any other changed the style of ecclesiastical structure and modified architectural taste in this country. Just forty years later another architect was to receive the honor, Charles Maginnis, who worthily set the capstone on what Keeley so well began, and who has been a godsend for the uplift of architectural taste in our academy, college and church buildings. 

The third medalist was Eliza Allen Starr. Miss Anglin will tell you about her, but it was a triumph for true liberalism of mind to have her selected. This is all the more inter­esting because about that time a young woman passed the examina­tion for the senior wranglership in mathematics at Cambridge, England, and they gave her a certificate to that effect, but passed the wrangler-ship on to the man who was next. How I would like to have been the senior~'^vrangler under those circum­stances! 
And then there was a group of military scientists initiated by the fourth medalist. General John New­ton. During the next forty years he was to be followed by General Eose­crans. Admiral William S. Benson and Dr. Albert F. Zahm of aero­nautic fame. I can speak of only one of them as we pass. Admiral Benson whom I knew very well, and who was one of the most important figures in the modem history of the United States navy. It was said of him. 
"Whatever ship he served was sure to be a happy ship." He was a daily communicant, a convert who shamed many to the manner born, and an historic American iigure, a demon­stration of Catholic patriotism. 
And then came the first of a group of journalists, Edward Preuss, whom our German friends appreciated so thoroughly; P. V. Hickey, known by the Irish; and Patrick Donahoe, known by American Catholics every­where. Had he done nothing hut give Boyle O'Keilly his opportunity to write for his Irish compatriots here in America that would have been fame enough, but he was a Catholic patriarch who worked marvels and began the transformation of Puritan Boston into what it is today. As for 
P. V. Hickey, I could say much but refrain. He attended my Commence­ment at Fordham and offered me a chance to write for his paper. I knew that he had e.Kcellent taste in journalism. 
And then came a series of pub­licists and philanthropists, Onahan of Chicago; Daniel Dougherty of Philadelphia; John A. Creighton of Omaha, founder of the University; Thomas Fitzpatrick who succeeded Donahoe as a Catholic benefactor of Boston; Tom Mulry, the beloved of New York, with regard to whose mar\'elous work for the children of New York we heard over the Cath­olic Hour last Sunday; George Duval, the founder of so many Cath­olic institutions; Kenkel, the great leader in German Catholic activities, another one of these marvelous con­verts who show native Catholics their way to heaven; James J. Phelan, a worthy successor of Donahoe and Fitzpatrick in Catholic welfare for Boston. Most of these men I knew personally, but that only makes it all the harder to skip over their achievements with the paucity of words that the circumstances of this occasion demand of me. 
And now that I come to medicine I refuse to be confined within such v;ord fetters, but I think that you will agree that there is more than profes­sional partiality to justify loquacity about them. Among the Laetare med­alists are some of the greatest Ameri­can physicians. Thomas Addis Em­met probably saved more pain and suffering to women from the unfor­tunate results of complications in the precious process of motherhood than any other man who lived. No wonder patients came to him from all over the world. No wonder that his text­book was translated into four lan­guages. No wonder that men already of distinction in this field came across the Atlantic in order to see what Enunet was accomplishing. His re­sults seemed almost incredible until you actually saw them accomplished. 
Dr. John B. Murphy, it has been 

said, made Chicago famous. He was known all over the world for his in­ventions, discoveries and observations in surgery. I can still recall very vividly how cordial was the welcome to him at the International Medical Congress of Medicine in Moscow in 1897. One of the greatest of living surgeons declared that Murphy was the greatest surgeon for the last three hundred years. He listed all the sur­geons of distinction for that period and he knew his history of surgery very well, and then placed Murphy at the head of them. Our own Dr. Will Mayo of Rochester, Minn., declared that Murphy had done more to make American surgery what it is, the leader of the world in this depart­ment, than any other. Then there was Dr. Lawrence Flick of Philadel­phia, who is acknowledged to have done so much for the reduction of the mortality from consumption, which had been in Defoe's picturesque phrase, the captain of the men of death, and has become one of the less important factors in the mortality lists. The very latest of Laetare Medalists before today, Dr. Stephen Maher, was another one of these he­roes of tuberculosis who have accom­plished so much in wiping out to such a happy extent that great folk dis­ease, the White Plague, that was so threatening only a generation ago— and now is faced so confidently. It might be easy to think that this list of Laetare medalists exhausted the roll of Catholics of any distinction in this country. It might even seem, since so much of the work of these men was done in the quiet obscurity that so often represents the best en­vironment for the doing of good to others, that Catholics had made less than their due contribution to accom­plishment in this country. Anyone who has looked over even casually the work known as the Catholic Builders of the Nation will have brought home to him how active Catholics have been in American life considering condi­tions and opportunities. As it is there are a number of men who might readily have found a place on this Laetare list only that others seemed for the moment to possess more dis­tinction and to carry more prestige. Years ago Alphonse Daudet, I think it was, in France having failed of election himself to the French Acad­emy, the famous Forty Immortals, wrote the story of The Forty-first Fauteuil, pointing out that in every generation someone had been refused admission to the Academy who was at least as distinguished as those ad­mitted, so that "the forty-first chair" actually had more distinction than al­most any other chair in the Academy. I think that something of that same kind might well be said of the Laetare Medal. It is easy to look back and wonder why certain men did not re­ceive the medal, for they certainly deserved it as much as many of those who got it. As a physician I think 
for the moment in terms of medicine and such names occur to me as that of Professor Thomas Dwight, Park­man Professor of Anatomy at Har­vard for twenty-five years in the chair that had been occupied by Oliver Wendell Holmes; Dr. Joseph O'Dwyer, whose invention of intubation saved so many lives and so much suffering among children; Van Buren, the dis­tinguished New York surgeon; and Edward L. Keyes, Sr., another of our great surgeons, known all over the country, both of them converts to the Church. When I recall in addition Charles O'Connor, the great lawyer, and O'Callaghan, the historian of New York State, I know that the forty-first fauteuil is as well occupied in America as in France. 
And now with the list of doctors completed I am almost free to con­fess that the lawyers are ahead of us physicians in the distinction of their members who have been Laetare med­alists. Among them were Timothy How^ard, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Notre Dame's own state of Indiana; New York's great lawyer and orator, statesman and defender of the faith, Bourke Cochran, the young­est man to receive the" Laetare Medal, for he was only forty-seven; Charles 
J. Bonaparte, who said when the medal was conferred on him, "What America demands of a patriot chiefly is not that he die for his country, but that he live for it." He was the evangelist of the doctrine, "No man can be a good Catholic who is not a good citizen. It is not enough that this doctrine be affirmed by our cate­chism or declared by our preachers; it must be recognized in our lives." 
Among the lawyers also was that great Cliief Justice of the United States, Edward Douglas White. With Robert Brooke Taney he was one of two Catholics who w^ere on the Su­preme Bench for some sixty years, and for nearly half a century were Chief Justices of the United States. Could there be a greater tribute to Catholic citizenship? 
Then there is Joe Scott, probably the best known lawyer on the Pacific coast, and Walter George Smith, one of the best known lawyers in the East, president of the American Bar Association, the highest honor for a member of the bar. He was co-author of that life of Father Fidelis of the Passionists whose conversion to the Church while president of Hobart College meant so much. Then there is Jack Spalding, who used all the diplomacy developed by legal train­ing to foster understanding among his fellow citizens of the South and to minimize the religious intolerance that is due more to ignorance than to anything else. 
The first of the medalists was an author, modest and unassuming, but his work was enduring. He initiated a series of authors highly honored in their own day. There was Henry F. 
Brownson, the son of Orestes, but himself declared to be one of the most scholarly men of his day. Then there was Maurice Francis Egan who occu­pies so high a place in the memories of Notre Dame students and who was one of the most genial of diplomats, a poet and novelist as well. How dif­ferent Egan was from the author medalist of three years later, Charles Heberman, looked upon as one of the best classical scholars of his genera­tion, an authority on Latin language and literature, as well as on Roman antiquities, and the greatest guiding spirit of the Catholic Encyclopedia, that triumph of American scholarship. 
Then there is a group of men who may well be called statesmen. A witty Frenchman once defined a statesman as a dead politician, but these men were not politicians, but men who de­voted themselves to some of the best service to the commonwealth. Rich­ard C. Kerens, a great pioneer in -American transportation, who made a fortune without smirch, and who was noted for his charities and benefac­tions, his gifts to the Catholic Uni­versity and to the University of St. Louis, eminently deserved the ap­pointment of Ambassador of Austria. He was a devotee of daily Mass. Three years later he was followed as medalist by James Monaghan, who worked up from poverty to be a prominent authority on United States foreign relation and trade. Another of the series was Charles Patrick Neill, commissioner of labor under Roosevelt, Taft and Wilson, and it is easy to understand that anyone who could satisfy the policies of three men so different in the solution of prob­lems so knotty as those of the labor field in the first quarter of the twen­tieth century is a man of tact and judgment and intellectual acumen. jVnother of the statesman medalists was Edward Nash Hurley, the head of the United States Shipping Board during the war. Quite needless to say this was a diflicult position and yet he emerged from it with a commander-ship in the French Legion of Honor, a Grand Officer of the Crown of Italy, and a Distinguished Service Medal from General Pershing, just another of these Laetarists who began at the bottom of the social ladder and well deserved the distinction of being picked out as the distinctive Catholic layman of his da.v. 
No New Yorker could quite trust himself to speak about the next of the statesmen, .'Alfred E. Smith, who received the medal in 1929. He is the greatest of all our American Catholic laymen and as our greatest New York lawyer, Elihu Root, said after the Constitutional Convention in New York. "Al Smith has been the most useful member of this committee." That was years ago and since we have had the benefit of his seasoned wis­dom. 
I come to the artists who have been 

honored. Thirty years ago the Lae­tare Medal was conferred on jVugust­ifie Daly of New York, the apostle of high and uplifting art. He changed the traditions of the theater from the worship of the star to group excel­lence. No wonder he achieved world­wide fame and his company was as well known in Europe in the great capitals, Paris and London, as in America. No wonder that he was 
MARGARET ANGLIN 

Praised for Preservation of Clean Drama. " 
showered with honors and was looked upon as one of the great moral forces of his day. What he did for the stage comes out all the more by contrast with what the drama became after his day in New York. 
.4nd after having paid tribute to Augustine Daly—one of the self-made Laetarists, whose brother. Judge Daly, once said to me, "The best education that you can give a boy of twelve to fifteen is to put his widowed mother on his hands to support. If there is anything in the boy it will come out." That is what happened to the two Dalys, and both of them succeeded admirably, both of them became lead­ers in their own lines in New York. 
I am told that I should introduce the next speaker who is herself a medalist and who is so much better known than I am even to this audi­ence that I hesitate to do more than present her. She is one of the great­est of Shakespearean actresses, the marvelously successful originator of a revival of the twentieth century of Greek classic drama crowned w^ith a laurel wreath as "the foremost ac­tress of America" by the University of California, invited by the Greek government to produce the Greek classics in Athens. She cor-es wor­thily to a place beside Augustine Daly in what she has done for the uplift of the stage. She is the champion of high ideals in the theater, a recog­nized outstanding leader of women in public artistic life, who became her own producer rather than submit to the dictates of producers exploiting immoral drama, one of the worthiest of the holders of the Laetare Medal who will tell you as no mere man could the tale of the other women medalists. 
Miss Anglin's Talk 
In the fifty years since the Laetare Medal was instituted, ten women have been recognized and honored. It is for them I have been chosen to speak on this Jubilee occasion. The honor is a great one. May I first say for myself, that next to the hon­or of receiving this inspiring decora­tion, no privilege could be greater than to be spokesman this evening for my distinguished sisters. 
In the ritual of the Church on Laetare Sunday, the theme is leader­ship. In that ritual the Call of Moses is commemorated, the Call of God, which summoned Moses to lead the chosen people out of the Wilderness into the Land of Promise. The Is­raelites had their Moses to lead them. But the story of their wanderings and triumphs tells us, also, that they had their Deborah — their woman leader—who cried out to Barak, "Up! for this is the day in which the Lord hath delivered Sisera into thy hand!" -4nd Deborah went up with him and Deborah sang her famous song of leadership and victory praising the Lord for his blessings. 
Notre Dame, in conferring her award year after year on leaders of the American laity has not forgotten the Deborahs. This is a man's school, but is it not presided over by a woman? By the woman of all women —Our Lady! Woman is not forgotten here. 
The first woman to receive the Laetare Medal ^was the well known art critic Eliza Allen Starr, to whom the decoration was given in 1885 the third year of the award. To no single person in the history of American culture do we owe more than to Eliza Allen Starr for our development in the appreciation of art. Few have mastered the principles of painting as she did; but she did more than master them. Her love of Beauty was a communicable gift. She was able to convey to others, to thous­ands, through books and lectures her enthusiasm and her keen knowledge of color and form, not to speak of her vast knowledge of the History of art. She was the American Eus-Wn. More than ever today we need her ideals! 
The first award of the Laetare Medal for imaginative literature was made in 1889 and it went to the novelist Anna Hanson Dorsey. The name of this gifted woman stands in the record of American literature as that of the pioneer Catholic Novelist. Until she brought her pen to its task, there was no such thing as Catholic fiction in America, and it was a time when the printed word was badly needed by a people often scattered far from the ordinary contacts of the old Faith, needed not only to stir their imaginations but to rouse and keep alive their pride in the often ver y difficult practice of their religion. 

In the charming and romantic pages of Mrs. Dorsey's tiventy or more novels the Catholic masses of earlier times found that wholesome pleasure and that inspiration to "carry on." 
A^ery truly may it be said of Anna Hanson Dorsey, as Maurice Francis Egan said to her in his sonnet on the occasion of her decoration—that she 
"with noble art, worked serene above a sordid world— Not prizing much its praises or its blame. But telling secrets to the Faithful heart Learned well of God!" Creative literature was cro^vned for the second time in 1895 when another novelist, Mary A. Sadlier was honored. The term "a household world" is probably out-worn; but never to any name could it be more literally ap­plied than to the name of Mrs. Sad­lier. Every state in the Union knew Mrs. Sadlier's stories, "The Blakes and the Flannigans," "Willie Burke," "The Confederate Chieftains." Those books — many of them still read—are records of a time of strug­gle and development. When Notre Dame, in 1899, scanned the world of American Cath­olic lay achievement to find the one most highly meriting national recog­nition, one name stood out — Mary Gwendolen Caldwell. This time the choice fell not in the field of art, but in the field of education and philan­thropy. It was Sliss Caldwell's deep interest in Catholic education that moved her to give to that cause per­haps the most significant gift ever bestowed upon it in this country. She founded the Catholic University of America; she may truly be called its founder, since it was her munificence that made possible the erection of its first building. That epochal gift was recognized in the highest quar­ter when Pope Leo XIII conferred on Miss Caldwell the Golden Rose. It was fitting, then, that the Laetare Medal, the "Golden Rose of America," should also be hers; and all the more so since, following her first memor­able beneficence,, she added to it the foundation of a Fellowship and a Scholarship in the School of Divinity. 
A woman of great wealth. Miss Cald­well's charities were many; she wjs a true philanthropist and she was far-seeing as well as generous. Since her time, hosts of men, armed with the Catholic faith, have gone out from the walls of the school that she endowed, many of them to significant achievement. Some have come to wear the Laetare Medal. And the riches of achievement which life has given them came from the wealth of a woman's heart. 
Leadership in the world of journ­alism has commonly belonged to men. Women have long played a part in the molding of opinion through the public prints, but seldom has she been at the helm. Katherine E. Conway, the Laetare Medalist of 1907, was one of the few women leaders that American journalism has produced. Trained in the stem old-time school of Patrick Donahoe, for half a cen­tury the high priest of Catholic jour­nalism in the United States, Miss Conway, despite the gentleness of her nature, was the logical successor of Donahoe, and of her brilliant col­league John Boyle O'Reilly, when the historic old Pilot called for an editor. For a quarter of a century this quiet and Tinassuming, but brainy woman, had served the cause of Catholic let­ters when the Laetare Medal found her out in her little back-room office. Nor did The Pilot, patriarch of America n Catholic newspapers, absorb all her energies. As literary editor of The Republic, as contributor to practically every secular daily of Boston and to numerous magazines, 
as poet, essayist and novelist, author of fourteen volumes of prose and verse. Miss Conway kept the candles on the altar of Catholic letters brightly lighted. Her story is the story of a public career dignified by noble service and in it we may read for all time "the lesson of the valiant woman." 
"Christian Reid" was the pen-name of Frances Fisher Tiernan upon whom the Medal was conferred in 1909. Not many knew the private name of this modest Southern wom­an, the daughter of a Confederate colonel, but the whole world knew "Christian Reid" the novelist, whose writings were recognized as the prod­uct of a singularly gifted mind. She was one of those whose voice is heard, not alone by her fellows of the Faith, but by the non-Catholic world as well. The critical recognition given every­where to "Christian Reid" made her work a genuine achievement in the Apostolate of Art. Her daily life, lived quietly and unobtrusively in her native Carolina, was a constant exemplification of her ideals. For years she was the only teacher of Christian doctrine in her neighbor­hood. Around her she gathered the children and taught them their cate­
chism. Himdreds gave her the adora­tion of their hearts, as tens of thous­ands in the world outside gave her the homage that is the rightful reward of the true artist. 
The seventh star in Laetare's gal­axy of women leaders is one that happily still beams and shines for us, a true liuninary in the skies of con­temporary literature. More than 20 years have passed since Agnes Rep-plier, in 1911, was honored by Notre Dame, but already she was one of the foremost figures in American let­ters. A very special type of mind, a very special gift of genius, brought Agnes Repplier into what is some­times termed the most difficult of all fields of writing—the essay. Liter­ature has produced countless great poets, novelists, dramatics, but few supreme essayists. In American lit­erature Emerson and Lowell lead the small band. But they do not lead it alone. It is enough to say of Agnes Repplier that, by the consensus of critical opinion, she ranks with them, she stands abreast of them. She is' unquestionably the greatest of living essayists of the English tongue, and she is so recognized in Europe as well as America. She has been called 
by Schelling, the famous Elizabeth­an scholar, "the cleverest woman in America." If we take Schelling's "clever" to mean the most gifted, the most polished and finished, in short the most artistic, then the appellation is rightfully Agnes Repplier's. Miss Repplier has achieved more greatly than any other woman in her difficult field. There is no name in the cata­logue of artistic accomplishments, be it man's or woman's of which Amer­ica, and especially the Catholics of America, may be more justly proud than that of -\gnes Repplier. 
The achievements of the women whose stories I have so far told rep­resent more than mere gifts of gen­ius. They represent determination, hard work, indefatigable zeal. I come now to the story of one whose record on the score of purpose and courage is unique. In a sense, she stands alone among her sisters and brothers of the Laetare confraternity. Her story is one of the world's inspiring legends of courage, unquenchable spirit and unconquerable win. The story of a woman who, denied all that others have, crippled since childhood, never during the years since she was a little girl, walking, standing or even sitting, nevertheless out of the indomitable strength of her nature and out of the abundance of her heart's riches had built up one of the noblest works of charity Amer­ica has known. In 1915 Notre Dame, turning from the highest tribunal of the land, having the year before given the Laetare Medal to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, looked into the sick 
room of a bedridden woman and found there one of the world's lead­ers, one of the most inspired Debor­ahs—Mary Merrick. I scarcely need mention the name of her great work, the founding of the Christ Child Soc­iety, that matchless and uncompan­ioned institution of infant welfare which has grown out of the beautiful genius of a living modern saint. She began it one Christmas years ago, by the simple act of preparing with her own hands, as she lay stricken on her bed, some warm clothes for two poor babies. From that lovely act has grown a work of the most far-reach­ing consequence, a w-ork which in­cludes in its activities, shelters, sew­ing-schools, libraries, summer outing camps, hospital-visiting, settlement work, all for poor children. Most fit­tingly this work is carried on in the name of the Christ Child. Its found­er is herself literally as hidden away as the Christ Child was at Bethle­hem, and even her name would be still unknown were it not for the insistence of Notre Dame that she be recognized so that others might be given the inspiration of her example. Unique figure that Mary Merrick is in the history of Catholic lay achieve­ment, the work that she has done is nevertheless one of the most common appeal. In that lies her greatness and in that lies her glory—in the obvious fact that from her, all of us may learn not only how to do but how to be leaders in doing, no matter what may be the handicap life puts on us. 
As this cycle of Catholic woman­hood preeminent in lay endeavor be­gan with art, so it comes to a close with the name of an artist. Eliza­beth Nourse, to whom the Laetare Medal was awarded in 1921, is not only the outstanding American Cath­olic painter of our day but is like­wise one of the world's greatest liv­ing artists. Her fame is interna­tional, her record one of the most brilliant of all the wielders of the brush in modern times. Her can­vasses are known in the great galler­ies of the world. The only American woman to be elected to membership in the Societe Nationale des Beaux Arts, winner of awards in all the world—expositions during the past 40 years — since Chicago, in 1893— Miss Nourse stands as one of the most distinguished figures in the field of painting. Accepted by the Paris Salon while still a student—an al­most unprecedented honor—first rec­ognized by Puvis de Chavannes, pre­eminent among modern muralists, acclaimed by Rodin, Cezanne, Car­olus-Duran and the other masters, her name is indeed a resplendent one shining in the starry host of the Laetare Medalists. Yet it is not her great fame alone that is significant to us on this day_ when the Laetare confraternity celebrates its Golden Jubilee. Better than her fame is that for which she is famous — an art devoted to the purest ideals, a mas­tery of technique, of color and com­position, consecrated to the picturing of himian life at its best. The land­scape canvasses of Elizabeth Nourse are famous for their beauty and warmth, but it is as "the artist of the lowly poor" that she will be remembered. That is enough to say of her; that tells all—all the story of her struggle up from poverty to achievement and fame, all the story of her keeping unspoiled throughout that struggle the beauty, the tender­ness, the glowing human warmth and sympathy of a beautiful soul. 
In the address made to that illus­trious military leader. General Eose­crans, when the Laetare Medal was conferred upon him, these words were spoken: "The Laetare Medal has been worn only by men and women whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church, and enriched the her­itage of humanity." 
Americans are traditionally pi'oud of their women. In no land is woman paid such tribute of attention and admiration as in America. Indeed, a stock European criticism against the American woman is that she is spoiled. Of course, the women smile at that, knowing all the time that it is they who spoil the men, knowing, in fact that women are adepts at the art of spoiling—and.that the perfect art is the art that conceals itself! But seriously, women, being only human, enjoy the admiration of the men, which is only another way of saying that, like the men themselves, they enjoy the admiration of the world, even if sometimes their con­sciences reproach them for not mer­iting it. Yet when such a record of woman's leadership is set forth as I have tried briefly to give you here today; when womanhood is seen glorified by the personalities and achievements of such women as these nine Laetare Medalists; then a woman, speaking for herself and for all her sisters, has the right to say, and is perfectly safe in saying, though she speak in great humility, that our womanhood is a thing of which all Americans, and especially Catholic Americans, may be justly proud. 

Artist To Retouch GregoH Art 
The famous fresco paintings by the artist Gregori in Sacred Heart church, Notre Dame, Ind., will be rejuvenated during the next four months by Con­rad Schmidt, Milwaukee, who is surpassed by no one in America as a church decorator. 
The paintings, more than 50 years old, are mostly in perfect condition. Others, however, are disintegrating slightly after a half century in the picturesque Gothic structure, and the pillars and walls need re-painting. 
Schmidt has just linished the fresco work in the Cathedral at Tucson, -Ariz. He was the artist for the St. Louis Cathedral which contained the largest murals and frescoes in the country. He also painted the St. Peter's and Paul's church in Pitts­burgh and many others of the largest in this country. 
He was loud in his praise of the Gregori fresco artistry. "Many of the figures are as fresh as if they had been painted yesterday," he said. 
"They arecentury."   good for  fully  another  
Schmidt  explained  that  Gregori  

worked with mineral colors, using no artificial or chemical colors. The min­eral colors, he said, shed dust and per­mit atmospheric conditions to work through them without any disturb­ance. 
"If these paintings were in oil they v.-ould have been black long ago," Schmidt stated. "In a church I dec­orated ten years ago the mosaics are already black while the frescoes are' as fresh as if they were just painted. Any substance other than natural mineral colors will collect dirt and grime. These paintings have not been touched for 50 years and they look like new." 
Schmidt was also highly pleased with the gothic lines of Sacred Heart church which is considered one of the finest examples in the United States of this type of architectitre. The new Notre Dame buildings have been built in the modem gothic style, and Notre Dame is fast becoming one of the out­standing centers of gothic architec­ture. 
He also had much praise for the Bernini altar which stood in Rome for 300 years and which has stood at Notre Dame for half a century. If anv doubt the authenticity of this al­tar, he said, they have only to realize that it is in perfect condition after 350 years of constant use, and to study the stjie, which is definitely Bernini's. "Aji imitation would not have lasted this long," he said. 
The famous altar, carved by the contemporary of Michaelangelo who worked with that Italian master in St. Peter's in Rome, has been used in re­cent years for perpetual adoration during the Lenten, Advent, and May seasons. Notre Dame is one of the few places in the country outside of convents where perpetual adoration is allowed. 




Secretary's Report 
May I speak first of the financial report, because what we have done has been affected by our financial con­dition. Here, as in the whole report, achievement of the Association, where it occurs, is pointed out for the benefit of the members and is not intended as self-praise from the Secretary. 
June 1, 1932, with a balance of $582.68 on hand, we had outstanding bills of approximately .?4,S00, includ­ing printing, back salaries, and mis­cellaneous bills. 
June 1, 1933, with a balance of ?398.57, we have outstanding bills of appro.ximately $4,800, which have been concentrated by the University through the assuming of the bill for the ALUMNUS and a cash advance of ?l,OaO, to permit the Association to function in spite of this deficit. 
While, therefore, we did not re­duce our deficit during the year just past, it was not increased. We op­erated the Association during the pe­riod on a per capita cost of approxi­mately $1.05. This represents a 50% reduction in the per capita cost from three years ago, while accompanied by a 25% increase in the number of alumni in the Association. 
This represents, of course, reduc­tion in expenditures. We doubt whether it is, completely at least, good economy. 
The -Alumnus The cost of publishing the ALUM­NUS this year was reduced 40% by omitting a cover and taking advan­tage of the general decline of the cost of printing. We believe the mag­azine to have been satisfactory con­sidering the emergency. It should be improved considerably as soon as possible. The uncertainty of finances also resulted in a publication policy that hampered the unity and continu­ity that would increase the interest and service of the magazine. One promising sign of the year was the doubling of the gross adver­tising revenue, representing the ac­tivity of a new organization which seems to be solving the peculiar field of alumni magazine advertising. The introduction of a book review page by Father John Cavanaugh, 
C.S.C. and the continuation of f-o work of Father John O'Hara, C.S.C. through the Religious Page, were hanpy features. 
Through the economies effected, the magazine resumed its 9-time schedule, with benefits from this regularity that we believe offset the cost. 
The Local Clubs Too much praise cannot be found to heap on the Local Clubs. During 

the weakest year of the Alumni Of­fice, in many ways, the Club programs throughout the country have reflected an understanding and a co-operation which deserves the notice and the ap­preciation of Notre Dame and all Notre Dame men. 
The Local Clubs are here to stay, realizing already possibilities that only several years ago were held to be ideals of distant hope. Universal 
•Notre Dame Night brought undimin­ished enthusiasm and activity and a new note of serious purpose and achievement from all comers of the country. The Retreat movement is spreading definitely through the Clubs. The University is pleasantly amazed at the strength of the Clubs as co­operative factors in the program of contacts with preparatory students and schools. 
Despite conditions, four new Clubs were organized during the year— Dallas, Texas; Laporte, Indiana; Rhode Island; and Oklahoma City. In addition, the Notre Dame Club of Bridgeport, Conn., reorganized re­cently en a more intensive scale, as well as extensive, to become the Notre Dame Club of Fairfield County. In addition to the numerical increase in the number of Clubs — there are now 73 such organizations — the Alumni Oflice has been stimulated particularly by the tone of the re­port of organization and the high plane of achievement of the infant organizations. In every instance, new Clubs of this year have functioned in a manner hitherto associated with far greater years and numbers. 
Attendance at other Club functions, among the older Clubs, seems to have generally improved. 
Work of Club officers and commit­tees, in the widening variety of du­ties, has been reported most favor­ably during the past year from all quarters. 
The Alumni Office does not hesitate to report that the worst year of the depression has been the best vear of the Clubs. 
Prospective-Student Contacts 

A new field of activity engaged the -Alunmi Office to substantial degree this year. Economic conditions, and the program of the colleges generally as a result, made it advisable for Notre Dame to begin actively a sur­vey of students for 1933-4. The alum­ni, the Alumni Clubs, and the Alumni Office, formed almost a natural chan­nel for this survey. A number of members of the faculty were enlisted to visit high schools from which the University has drawn enrolment, and even in these instances, the co-opera­
tion of the alumni and the Clubs was freely given and very valuable. 
Two major trips occupied six weeks actual time of the Alumni Secretary. One was East, beginning in Ohio and e.xtending to New York, visiting 15 Local Alumni Clubs on the trip and some 25 high schools, besides sundry other contacts of value associated with such a trip. The other was con­fined to the neighboring but populous area in Southwestern Michigan, cov­ering six cities and 25 high schools and civic organizations. 
In addition, the Secretary has vis­ited the Chicago Club at its luncheon several times and two Chicago high schools, and the Indianapolis Club. The Secretarj' is, of course, in con­stant contact with the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley. 
Besides these trips, supplemented by the faculty visits to other areas, the Registrar's Office and the Alumni Office have co-operated in sending out lists of prospective students and in­quirers to the Clubs and the District Governors. 
The N. D. au b of Milwaukee also brought ten boys, through the per­sonal initiative and conducting of former president and present Dis­trict Governor William J. Redden, to the campus for an inspection tour this Spring. 
The District Governors The above note requires a further comment on the District Governors. Holding positions without precedent in the Association, all of them men of affairs, the response of the Gov­ernors to the student contact project —the one job designed to enlist their efforts this year—^has been most en­couraging. The Governors have con­tributed to the succass of this par­ticular plan which makes the creation of their positions a definite step ahead, the program for their suc­cessors one of active proportions. 
Universal Notre Dame Night 

The 10th Annual Universal Notre Dame Night was observed on Monday, April 24. Due to obvious circum­stances, the Alumni Office offered little enough constructive co-opera­tion. 
In spite of this, the reports were indicative of the usual splendid meet­ings everywhere. Speakers from the campus were present at more than the usual number of meetings. 
A recent questionnaire to the Clubs, as well as a growing conviction at the University and in the Association, in­creases the probability of a national radio hook-up for the next U. N. D. Night. 
Living Endowment 

Conditions obviously made a cam­paign for Living Endowment during the year doubtful both as to result and policy. A gesture was made ac­cording to custom, so that the really promising plan would not lose the value of continuity. 
It is therefore somewhat encourag­ing to report that 200 members of the Association contributed ?1,375.25 to the Fund. This, under the construc­tion of the Fund, represents $27,505 capital invested at 5%. Pressure in other departments of the Association has caused the assignment of this fund to the general expenses of the Association this year. 
Dues 

-A serious decrease in the number of dues paid members, 354, marked this year. This, coupled with almost a 500 drop the previous year, has hit the principal source of income for the Association a terri'ic economic blow. 
There is one improvement this year over last. The Alumni Office has re­ceived literally hundreds of letters re­gretting inability to pay dues, prom­ising to pay as soon as jobs are se­cured, urging continuation of the ALUMNUS, and, in many cases, en­closing a dollar or two as proof of faith. So long as this situation pre­vails, the actual physical shrintage does not carry its normally serious significance. 
However, too much emphasis can­not be placed on dues as the sole major source of income. While the Association modified its system of billing to prevent embarrassment of the membership during the last two years, unless a, voluntary response brings a return of losses suffered dur­ing these years, other and more seri­ous steps will be forced into effect. 
The Alumni Office 

In spite of increased volume of member.ship through the addition of some GOO graduates of June and Au­gust of 1932, and in spite of the cler­ical work and the several weeks away from the Office caused by the partici­pation in student contacts, the Alum­ni Office this year has done without the services of one of the two assist­ants employed last year. 
This move was made reluctantly, and the difficulties with records and correspondence have made it most questionable in actual economy. While we have managed to keep up without vital losses, nevertheless we have suf­fered embarrassing delays in answer­ing correspondence, delays in pre­paring lists of alumni for Clubs and Classes, inability to pursue the im­portant work of filing non-graduate names, and numerous isolated cases of failure to seize opportunities that involved more attention than two people in the Office can give. Club and Class officers have been our most regrettable victims. 
The Office has had more correspond­ence than usual this year, reflecting a growing appreciation of the numer­ous services possible by a central alumni office with records such as those we have. Alumni co-operation in guiding various business opportuni­ties toward fellow alumni has evi­denced an increase this year. 
Special 

Special projects of the year have included mailing of Questionnaires to all alumni for the second edition of the Religious Survey of Alumni, pre­pared and edited by Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C. The first Survey at­tracted such wide and favorable at­tention in the Catholic world and car­ried so many things of importance and interest to Catholic higher educa­tion that the University immediately authorized further Surveys of the kind at two-year intervals. The Alum­ni Office and Father O'Hara co-oper­ated in the mailing of these Question­naires to all alumni. 
For our own advancement, the Alumni Association recently issued a Questionnaire to secure business and biographical data which is almost, es­sential to the type of activity that the development of the .\lumni Associa­tion is evolving. The extent of good achieved will depend to a large ex­tent upon the completeness of the re­turns. To date, however, the number answering has been satisfactory and the contents of the Questionnaires supplying ideas and material for ac­tivities even beyond the immediate objectives responsible for its mailing. 
ConeIasi(Hi8 

We repeat here our annual state­ment that the details of an Alumni. Office permit no accurate report short of volumes. There are, however, one or two general points that we feel obligated to make. 
Our present economy has gone be­low the level of efficiency. We must secure an increase of resources if we are to continue without serious loss. This, of course, simply means that the .Association must share immediately the return of prosperity to its mem­bers, or more sacrifice from them. 
More intangible as to proof, but equally strong as to conviction, is my feeling that, after almost eight years e.\perience in the job, the Alumni As­sociation has more understanding co­operation and more mutual respect from its mambers and from the Uni­versity than ever before. This is the essential situation. When alumni and University understand each other and the part the Association plays as the machinery of this mutual interest, the financial support to make the machinery function is properly sub­ordinated to the greater possibilities of the relationships. We feel secure in our prophecy that the end of this depression will be the end of all such experiences for the -Association. 
James E. Armstrong Alumni Secretary 

TREASURER'S REPORT (From June 1, 1932, to June 1, 1933) Loss From Receipts Gain from 1932 1932 Balance on Hand, June 1, 1932 $ 582.68 ? 855.88 Collected for dues' 5,960.00 ?1,920.00 Advertising ALUJINUS 907.82 469.26 Subscriptions ALUIINUS 18.00 15.00 Miscellaneous :— 161.50 118.00 From Living Endowment Fund 1,375.25 734.75 From the Universitj', Cash 1,050.00 1,050.00 
§2,293.14 §2,669.75 Total Income §10,055.25 
Disbursements More than 1932 Less than 1932 Printing ALUJINUS $3,000.00 . $678.00* Salaries 5,253.75 §716.25** Postage 756.50 27.87 Miscellaneous (Travel, Advertising 
Commissions, office supplies, etc) 646.43 493.99 
§9,656.68 §678.00 §1,238.11 Balance on Hand June 1. 1933-$398.57 
* Last year's figures were to May 1, this year's including June 1. ** This has no relation to cost of printing, but only to payments made. 
James E. Armstrong 
Secretary-Treasurer 

Harry Miller, '10, Heads New Administration 
 Memorial Day Ceremonies 
Memorial Day took on a special significance at Notre Dame this year with the death during the year of two of its former beloved figures. Most Rev. George J. Finnigan, C.S.C, Bishop of Helena, former Chaplain of the 137th Field Artillery and 80th Field Artillery, World War, and CoL William J. Hoynes, K.S.G., 20th Wisconsin Infantry and 2nd Wiscon­sin Cavalry, Ciiil War, the last mem­ber of the Notre Dame Post, G. A. R. 
Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C, Regimental Sergeant-Major, 320th Train Hq., 95th Div., World War, was the Celebrant of the Mass. The Address was delivered by Rev. Fred­erick T. McKeon, C.S.C, Chaplain 48th Inf., U. S. A., World War. Capt. Robert B. Riordan, 489th Field Ar­tillery, University Registrar, com­manded the military detail. The Uni­versity Band played. New in the line of march was the Reserve Officers club of Notre Dame, James C. Mc-Devitt, Commandant. The Prayer of the Nation's Dead, at the graves in the Community Cemetery, was deliv­ered by Rev. J. A. Heiser, C.S.C, Captain Chaplain, 489th Field Artil­lery. 
Indian Priest at Commencement 
One of the most interesting touch­es of color at Notre Dame's brilliant 89th annual commencement exercises and presentation of the golden jub­ilee Laetare Medal to John McCor­mack, was supplied by the Rev. Philip Gordon, the only full-blooded Indian Catholic priest in America. 
Father Gordon is chief of the Chip­pewa tribe of Northern Wisconsin and a member of the diocese of Su­perior, Wis. 
He entered the academic procession in full tribal regalia of feathered headress. 
Glee Club On Tour The Notre Dame glee club of 32 voices and Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, director, opened a 14-weeks stage tour at the' Capitol theater in New York City on June 9. The club will appear on consecu­tive weeks in Washington, D. C, Baltimore, Philadelphia, Newark , Brooklyn, New York City (second time), Boston, Providence, Jersey City, Detroit, Cleveland, Youngsto\\Ti and Akron (split week), and Chicago, according to schedule. Movies to be shown in these thea­ters ^vill be approved by Notre Dame officials before the club is allowed to appear. The week of July 21 the club will make a motion picture short sub­ject while appearing at Loew's State theater in New York City. 
Byron Kanaley, Frank Tfaitcr, Arthur Board; Plans in Process 
Balloting by members of the Asso­ciation brought the usual fine results. Inasmucii as the nominatiohs have never failed to select only leaders in the Association, the elections them­selves can hardly go astray. 
President of the new regime is M. 
Harry "Red" Miller, '10, one of the 
Five Miller Brothers, the Defiance 
Dynasty at Notre Dame, now a lead­
ing citizen in Cleveland, brother of 
the Mayor of that metropolis, at­
torney for the Graselli Chemical Co., 
former national director of the Asso­
ciation, famous in song and story as 
an athlete of the great days of the 
Champions of 1909, all-around alum­
nus. Every qualification an electorate 
could ask I 
Honorary President is Byron V. 
Kanaley, '04, who has held just about 
all the other offices in the Association, 
Lay Trustee of the University, "fa­
ther"' of various movements in the or­
ganization that are still bearing fruit, 
former debater in the era of debate, 
editor of the Scholastic, member of 
the Chicago Club, a member of the 
Board who is going to be "honorary 
in name only." 
First Vice-President is Frank C. Walker, '00. If the now nationally prominent New Yorker-by-adoption (matriculated from Montana) can lend to this organization some of the finan­cial genius of the late Democratic campaign, his year will be well spent. As a Lav Trustee he has been in close touch vdth. the campus and knows Notre Dame today in a way that makes his ser\"ices on the Board of particular merit. 
Second Vice-President is Arthur Carmody, '15, Shreveport, La. A member of an illustrious Notre Dame line of Carmodys, the new V-P. brings, like the President, a viewpoint and a 


Father French's 
Rev. James French, A.M., '90, cele­brated the Golden Jubilee of his Or­dination at Notre Dame, Sunday, May 28. 
For four years after ordination. Father French was a member of the faculty of St. Joseph's College, Cin­cinnati. Following that he was made superior of Holy Cross Seminary. 
In 1893 Father French became vice-president and director of studies of the University of Notre Dame, under Rev. Andrew Morrissey. Father Pat­rick Carroll, preaching the Jubilee sermon, says of him in this capacity, "The director of studies had manifold duties in those early days when the student list was smaller, the number 

Carmody and Fred Steers Join Almnni for a Success Program. 
cross-section of Notre Dame far in excess of his own years on the cam­pus. Being in the oil industry, and in Louisiana, the problems of the Asso­ciation will present little of serious involvement to Vice-President Car­mody. 
Director of the next four years is Fred L. Steers, '11, Chicago. The "freshman member" of the Director­ate com.es in with an alumni back­ground so faithful in senice, advice, attendance, etc., both on the campus and in Chicago, that the transfer from the ranks to the Directorate can make little but formal difference. As Class Secretary of the Class of '11 and man­ager of the Women's Olympic Team, Fred has had his problems. 
President Pat Manion retires to the Board as an ex officio member to con­tribute his valuable experience for the next year. 
Francis A. Werner, Senior Class president becomes the '33 Director. 
In the Lay Trustees, for the next six years, Frank E. Hering, '9S, LL.B, '02, was re-elected. As former coach and football star, as past president of the Alumni Association, and as Lay Trustee for the past six years, Mr. Bering's senice to the University has been such that the vote of the mem­bership which has re-elected him stands for certain reward in a con­tinuation of this service. 
The other Trustee elected this year is John P. Murphy, '12, Cleveland, al­so a former president of the Associa­tion, attorney for the Van Sweringen interests, one of the leading attorneys in his field, long identified with Notre Dame activities both national and local. The new Trustee could receive no more adequate recommendation than that he can capably fill the place of his predecessor, C. C. Mitchell, '02. 

Golden Jubilee 

of professors fewer .. . Father French .. . in a word, pursued the full round of his (the student's) scholastic life." 
In 1905 Father French was made president of St. Joseph's College, Cin­cinnati, and in 190G returned to Holy Cross Seminary as its superior until 1912, when he became a.'-.sistant su­perior to Rev. Gilbert Francais. At this time, too, he took up the work of establishing the now popular Mission Band of the Congregation. 
Two years ago Father French re­tired from missionary WDrk, hut not from active service. He is now serv­ing, as he is so beautifully qualified to serve, as the Chaplain of St. Joseph's hospital. South Bend. 
BY JOSEPH PETRITZ, '32 

Despite lugubrious predictions from all quarters, Notre Dame closed its athletic year with an all-team per­centage of .619 Avith 39 victories and 24 defeats. Two ties in track and baseball are not listed among the vic­tories since this is a non-moral record. 
The golfers, Capt. John Monte­donico, Vince Fehlig, Johnny Banks, Bill Veeneman, Bill Cole, and A. Ray Martin, swept their matches with Loyola, Purdue, Michigan State, Illi­nois, Northwestern, and Chicago to gain the third perfect record in four years. The Irish have lost only two dual matches—^both last season—in the four years of official golf teams since the opening of the William J. Burke-Notre Dame course. 
Furthermore, the state title, which was dropped to Purdue last year, came home again. Notre Dame took 626 strokes. Purdue had 664 and Indiana took 712. The five-man team took five of the first six places, Har­rell of Indiana tying for second with Johnny Banks. Bill Cole's, 152 took the indiAidual title. 
The fruits of these \'ictories are a shuffle off to Buffalo to participate in the forthcoming national inter­collegiate golf championships. 
The football team was second on the percentage basis with seven vic­tories and two losses (see ALUJINUS September, October, November, Dec­ember, January, February, March, April, May, June). The percentage was .778. 
Third honors went to the basket­ball team ^vith a .727 mark for 16 victories and six losses. An 11-game winning streak to finish the season showed what stuff Coach George Keogan's men are made of. 
John Nicholson, an old hypochon­driac, took all honors for the season with his track predictions. His team fooled him, though, and broke even with three wins and losses and a tie. 
One of the track victories, was over the strong Pittsburgh squad, another over Illinois, and the third at Pur­due's expense. Can you name three teams you'd rather have the boys beat? Michig^an State, Marquette, and Army won from Notre Dame. Ohio State's strong team was held to a tie when one of their" gentlemen obligingly dropped the baton and gave the Irish the tying five points in mile relay. 
Genera l unsteadiness, despite flashes of brilliance, cost the baseball team the second successive losing season, also the second in the last 27 years. The team lost seven games while grinning five for a percentage of .417. They won from and tied with Purdue. Another Purdue game was rained out, as was a scheduled game with Northwestern. Victories in the two rain-check games might have given Notre Dame an even break. We predict a great team for next season. Practically all of the 1933 men will be back and they did improve during the season. 
The tennis team found the going just too tough, losing six of its seven matches for a mark of .143. Until indoor facilities and adequate courts are furnished, the same performance may be expected. The four tarvia courts are all right, but they give a higher bounce than clay courts— and when the boys try to adjust their strokes when they get on clay, it's too late. 

Beaupre Wins Golf Title 

The annual Notre Dame Alumni golf meet turned out to be a brotherly affair this year, results made public June 4, revealed with the Beaupre brothers of Detroit, Mich., heading the field of 25 participants in the 36­hole medal play tourney. 
Fran Beaupre ontstroked his brother Russell to win top honors. His scores were 73-75 for a 148. Russ trailed him with a 77-73—150. Larry Moller, captain of the 1931 imdefeated varsity team, came in third. His scores were 75-76—151. 
All three of the top winners were members of the 1931 team. 
Rev. Francis C. Ott, coach of the undefeated 1933 varsity golf team at Notre Dame, left June 5, for Los Angeles, Calif. He will not return to Notre Dame in the fall, it was stated. 


Association Honored 
James E. Armstrong, Secretary of of the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion, is in Chicago from June 24-28 as Director of the Nineteenth An­nual Convention of the American Alumni Council, the professional or­ganization of alumni and alumnae executives of America. The Conven­tion is being held in Evanston, with Northwestern, Chicago, Lake Forest and Lewis Institute as host colleges. The Notre Dame representative has held a national office in the Council for the last five years, and was Di­rector of the Mid-West District of the Council for two years. 



Deceased Alumni 1932-33 
"Whereas God, in His wisdom, has during the past year taken from this life: 
Most Rev. George Joseph Finnigan, C.S.C, '10, Helena, Montana; Fran­cis E. Dailey, '30, Joliet, Illinois; Oscar Lavery, '25, Bridgeport, Conn.; Francis A. O'Toole, '28, Chicago, Illi­nois; George A. Kiener, '28, Cleve­land, Ohio; James E. Sullivan, '26, Pine City, Minn.; N. J. Comerford, Joliet, Illinois; Rev. Francisco Marin-Sola, LL.D., '16, Santo Tomas, Ma­nila, P. I.; Martin J. McCue, '79, Woodstock, 111. 
Frank Ward O'Malley, '95-98, Tours, France; William H. Brady, '07 OS., Corning, New York; Very Rev. Msgr. Francis H. Gavisk, LL.D., '14, Indianapolis, Indiana; C. V. Gal­lagher, '67, San Antonio, Texas; Very Rev. Msgr. Edw. J. McLaughlin, '75, Clinton, Iowa; Thomas F. Healy, '06, Rochelle, 111.; Dr. Edwin R. Heath, LL.D., '19, Kansas City, Mo.; Francis 
J. Kilkenny, '06, Chicago, 111.; Ernest 
C. Duncan, '00 os, San Francisco, Calif. 
Slichael Fitzpatrick, '61, Lockport, Illinois; Rev. John S. Schopp, '94, Cincinnati, Ohio; Rev. Patrick Mc­Veigh, '31, Helena, Montana; Theo­dore A. Scholzen, '32, Racine, Wis­consin; Colonel William Hoynes, '78, Notre Dame, Ind.; Rev. Dominic O'Malley, C.S.C, '03, Notre Dame, Ind.; Augustus F. Meehan, '90, Cin­cinnati, Ohio; RoUin G. Baldwin, '32, Chicago, Illinois; Thos. F. Griffin, '88, Sioux City, Iowa; Samuel P. Schwartz, '13, South Bend, Ind., Harry M Jewett, '90, Detroit, Mich. 
"Whereas those members have served their Alma Mater with glory in their respective avocations, 
"Be it resolved that this Associa­tion extend its heartfelt sympathy to the relatives with promise of pray­ers that the same God in His mercy Avill be generous to their souls and grant them that eternal rest which we all so earnestly seek. 
"Be it further resolved that an expression of the above be written into the official records of the Alum­ni Association, and a copy sent to the bereaved relatives." 


ALUMNI CLUBS 
CLEVELAND 
Well, the time has come for the President to prepare his farewell speech, the Vice-President to join the ranks of the Benedicts, the Treasurer to balance his ledger and the Secre­tary to close his correspondence files and dismiss his "large staff." All to­gether it has been a very pleasant, satisfactory and profitable year for the organization. Through the un­stinted efforts of our President, Tom Byrne, and the wholehearted support of the members, many new policies and activities have been added to the Club's program. 
First of all, there was the adop­
tion of the new "joint enterprise 
policj'" between the Campus Club 
and the Local Alumni Club. The suc­
cess of this policy can only be judged 
after a fair trial. Personally, I am 
strongly in favor of it. Briefly stated 
it means that in all local acti\-ities 
both the Students and the Alumni 
participate and share. It was an 
alternative proposed by the present 
administration in place of the grow­
ing practice among the Alumni clubs 
to control all local activities. 
Next came the adoption of the idea of universal participation in acti\'i­ties by all the members of the club. An honest and sincere effort has been made to place all members of the club on a committee which, at some time during the year will have a definite task to do. Naturally, the success of this plan has been some­what modified in a few cases by the lack of interest, conflicting interests, etc. of some of the members. Never­theless, I believe the success which crowned all the club's acti\'ities dur­ing this past year is the best answer to those who might advocate the select minority. 
Another policy advocated this past year was towards a general and com­plete change of officers from year to year. It was thought that this would encourage individual initiative and stimulate interest. More of this later. 
I had prepared several letters for your department but they were in­corporated in the "Officers' Report," a copy of which, I believe has been forwarded to you. So I refer you to that for any additional information regarding the past years activities of the club and officers. 
At the club meeting and party held on Universal N. D. Night the Club adopted a Constitution. Although very active for over a period of 10 or 12 years there was some question as to whether we had ever adopted a Constitution, so the void was filled and everyone is happy. Also, it should prevent any discussion on pro­cedure, inasmuch as one of my legal brethren, John Weisend, was chair­man of the committee on the job. Speeches by Tom Byrne and J. Pat­rick Canny were relieved by a goodly seidle of two (or even three) of Eohr's beer at the Club's expense. 

Not to omit the most important news of the year—I should next take up the club elections. As you may have gathered from the foregoing, the present officers declined to accept the job for another year. This should not be interpreted in an unfavorable light as much thought was given to it and it was thought to be in the best interests of the club to have an annual turnover of officers. The most disappointing feature of the elections was the unanimous vote the candi­dates received. Not that the men elected were not qualified — for I think they are exceptionally well qualified—but because lack of compe­tition has a deadening effect But let's congratulate the candidates who carried both houses. Here they are: 
President, Matthew E. Trudelle, 1023 Schofield Bldg., Euclid Avenue; vice-president, Gaylord Haas, c-o. Ohio Bell Telephone Co., Huron Road; secretary, J. Pat Canny, c-o. Legal Dept., Erie RR., Medical Arts Bldg.; treasurer, Jerome G. Reidy, c-o. Ohio Bell Telephone Co., Huron Road. 
I might include a' word of explana­tion here regarding the position of Jerry Reidy, As you recall, he was appointed to fill the vacancy left by our former treasurer, Lou Stettler who moved to Pittsburgh. In appre­ciation of his fine job of taking hold and clearing up the year's business and because he had not been elected to his office, Mr. Newmark wisely overrode his objections and nomin­ated him to the treasurer's job again this year. The unanimous vote indi­cated the club members feeling on it. 
I do not wish to be presumptuous or transgress the bonds of propriety but I cannot help but feel that some mention should be made of the excep­tionally fine management the club had under the out-going president, Tom Byrne. I have had very close contact with him during the past year and would like to recommend him to your consideration for a Na­tional Alumni office. He would prob­ably hang me for this but it is the result of sincere enthusiasm and ap­preciation for his ability. 
Clayton G. Leroux. 
•NEW YORK 

Our Retreat that was held from May 19, to 22, 1923, at Loyola House 
June, loss THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 253 
of Retreats in Morristown, N. J., was enthusiastically praised by everyone that attended. Enclosed photo of the group may interest you, and I am also attaching letter dated May 21, 1933, addressed to us from Father 
. Herman I. Storck, S.J., who was in the hospital, so that the retreat was conducted by Fathers Oates and Mc­Cauley. Two printed booklets, which I am enclosing, tell about the Loyola House of Retreats and the manner in which the retreats are arranged and carried on. Holy Communion was offered up by the group for the early recovery of Father Charles O'Don­nell, president of Notre Dame Uni­versity. 
William A. Daunt. 

NEW JERSEY This will probably reach you much too late to use in that special "Uni­versal N. D. nite edition, but I'm sending it along so that you can use 
it when and as. As a correspondent for the Jersey Club I'm a bit dilatory. As you may already know we ran our Universal Night four nights in advance of the regfular one. It was to assure our members of the espe­cially pleasing Jimmy Crowley. He came along to the Steuben club in Newark and the fact that more than a hundred alumni and friends were on hand was plenty of compliment to 
Jim. 
It was a swell feed with plenty of good beer (Jersey of course ha\'ing long since established its reputation with this beverage). Jim Silver was toastmaster and did a good job. Crowley, who always was a wit, has stepped up the ladder plenty in the post-prandial line and right now, in my humble opinion, is far and ahead of more famous football coaches. He had some new stuff and, on urgent applause, repeated some of his old 
stories. Others who spoke briefly were Rus­sell Riley, president of the Jersey Club; Bob Phelan, and Joe Byrne. The list of guests I haven't, but some of the "old boys" included Bert Daniels, Manhattan College baseball coach; Frank McDermitt, Gene Gilli­gan, Lyndon (Babe) Bryce, Joe Gilli­gan, Ex-N. D. and Princeton grid star; and others. Ed Lea Mond's \ Orchestra played. The club held its annual election May 1 at the Newark A. C. and Bob Phelan, fullback in the early twen­ties, was chosen to succeed Russ Riley. Kernan Wingerter of Newark replaces Phelan as vice-president while Eddie Broderick, Newark law­yer has done so well for two years as treasurer, was again chosen for the post. Joe Nulty, ex-cross country captain, continues as secretary—^for the seventh year. The officers take their posts at the annual freshman banquet in September. 
I ought to have a raft of notes about the boys but I'm sorry to say I haven't, though Dr. -Jerry Hayes, who is living in East Orange, has just returned from a two months' European cruse. He says Leningrad is a four-letter word meaning In­ferno. 
Many of the boys are going back 
to the Old School late this month— 
and I wouldn't be surprised if Andy 
McDonough, Plainfield lawyer makes 
his annual auto trip to the campus. 
Art Lea Mond. 
OKLAHOMA CITY 

It will be of interest to you to know that Oklahoma City has now-joined the great number of cities which have an annual celebration of Universal Notre Dame night. We were a little surprised to find that we have eighteen Notre Dame men in the immediate vicinity of Oklahoma City. 
Plans for the banquet were not started until late. It was not possible to inform all the alumni here of the event. It was held at the University Club of this city. So thoroughly did everyone enjoy the dinner and the general round table conversation (which, you may be sure, was replete with stories of the student days at Notre Dame) that plans were made for a larger celebration next year. 
Mr. W. F. Wilson, who received an honorary law degree from the Uni­versity in 1931, Dr. J. F. Martin, whose son is now at Notre Dame, and Mr. Thomas Boland one of the loyal supporters of Notre Dame who attended there many years ago en­joyed the evening with Bob and Ford Sullivan, Curry Holman, A. Mulhall, Louis Danzig, Bernard Lomasney (all now attending the University of Oklahoma), Larry Farnam, Robert Beery, James Burke, and William Lomasney. Rodney Janeway, Roland Wright, Louis Choteau, J. S. Askew, Jr., and Howard Beasley were out of town and could not attend. 
It will be of interest to their friends to know that Larry Farnam is one of the leading lights with the Mass. Mutual Life Ins. Co., in Okla­homa, Bob Berry is an assistant municipal counsellor. Rod Janeway is assistant cashier in the Mangum National Bank, James Burke is a buyer for the leading department store here, Howard Beasley is district representative for the Federal Match Company. Although, my title of as­sistant state fire marshall seems to connote red suspenders, fire whistles, and the like, my work is really con­fined to the development and prosecu­tion of arson cases. By the way, Beasley as match salesman usually precedes me in traveling about the state. 
Please remember me to Father O'Hara, Father Miltner, and the 
other good friends who were so good 
to me at Notre Dame. We are very 
thankful that Father O'Donnell is 
well again. We did not forget him 
when he was ill. 
William Lomasney and J. S. Askew 

are planning to return to Notre 
Dame to complete their courses. Bill 
is working on the Legal News and 
J. S. is working for the Board of 
Affairs. Haskell Askew. 
1933 Ordinations 
A class of 20 men was ordained 

Roman Catholic priests Saturday 
morning, June 24 at eight o'clock by 
the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., 
LL.D., bishop of the Fort Wayne 
diocese, at Sacred Heart Church, 
Notre Dame, Indiana. 
One other, the Rev. James Norton, 

C.S.C, will be ordained at Indianap­
olis, his home. 
Following are the men ordained. 

The Rev. John Molter, C.S.C, Plymouth, Ind.; Rev. James Gibbons, C.S.C, Chicago; Rev. Christopher O'Toole, C.S.C., Alpena, Mich.; Rev. John Scheberle, C.S.C, Watertow-n, Wisconsin; Rev. Cornelius Hooyboer, CS.C., Lake Forest, 111.; Rev. Wil­liam Coughlan, C.S.C., Chicago; Rev. Joseph Luttman, C.S.C, South Bend, Ind.; Rev. George Welsh, C.S.C, Peru, Ind.; Rev. Bernard McAvoy, C.S.C, Tipton, Ind.; Rev. Theodore Mehling, C.S.C, Fremont, Ohio; Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C, Syracuse, N.Y.; Rev. Archibald McDowell, C.S.C, La­fayette, Ind.; Rev. George Dimi, C.S.C, Downers Grove, III.; Rev. Joseph Voorde, C.S.C, South Bend, Ind.; Rev. John Harrington, C.S.C, Eureka, Utah; Rev. Charles Young, C.S.C, Rochester, N. Y.; Rev. Wal­ter Marks, C.S.C, Berlin, Wis. 

Sununer School Opens 

Approximately 500 summer school students enrolled for the University of Notre Dame summer sessions which opened Tuesday, June 20. 
Most of the students are nims, priests, and brothers. The nuns live in Morrissey and Howard halls, the priests and brothers in Sorin and Walsh halls, and the laymen in St. Edward's haU. 
Students have the option of eating in the dining halls or cafeteria. The nuns eat in one of the huge twin wings and the laymen, priests, and brothers eat in the other wing. 
There are 94 officers of instruction for sununer school, including 82 members of the regular faculty and 12 visiting teachers. 
Bachelor degrees will be conferred in arts and letters, fine arts, music, and science. Masters degrees ^vill be conferred iii arts and letters, music, and science. Doctor of philosophy degrees will be conferred. 


HTuE ALUMNI; 
FoUoOTng are the names, by Classes, of those fortu­Cleveland supported its several candidates (successfully) nate alumni who enjoyed the 89th Commencement. These with a delegation of 27, including the Five Miller Brotii­names are taken from the registers of the Alumni Office ers, Henry NewTnark, and the Rev. Mike Moriarty. The and the residence halls. As annually history has repeated register for the record-breaking Five-Year Reunion of itself, this year too convinces us that a number of alumni '28 brings names listed from New York and New Jersey, did not register. This is primarily true of those who Massachusetts, through the U. S. to Oregon and Wyom­came for only one day, stayed down to\\'n, or the resi­ing, to a new high total of 101. The Dix Reunions of dent alumni. '23, '24, '25, '26 brought back 121. The Classes of '04, '05, 
'06, '07 were lighter than usual, with an attendance of That there is improvement in the "local boys" is indi­17. Only six of the 25-Year Class of 1908 were back. cated by a total registration of 111 members of the Notre 
The Class of '83, besides the handicap of distance in Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, in addition to the several instances, reported itself so involved in the busi­
"pros" who can technically be included in the organiza­ness world that attendance was impossible. No outrof­tion—the 47 priests and faculty members of the Univer­industry-at-60 for '83! 
sity, who registered. 

Here are the 595 whose names appeared on the regis­
Chicago leads the legitimate registratipn with 125— ters : 
1877 
F. H. Vennet, South Bend. Indiana 
1878 Henry Newmark, Cleveland, Ohio 
1880 Dr. .Tohn B. Bertelinff, South Bend, Indiana Sol Henoch. Laporte, Indiana Samuel S. Ferley, South Bend, Indiana 
1882 Joseph Ruppe, Hancock, Michigan 
1884 Joseph G. Smith, Chicago, Illinois 
1886 Rev. B. J. m, C.S.C., Notre Dame Ind. 
1887 Wm. K. O'Connell, Monticello. Indiana 
1888 Very Rev. J. A. Bums, C.S.C, Notre D.-une 
1890 Rev. John Cavanauffh, C.S.C, Notre D.-mie Rev. James J. French, C.S.C., Notre Dame 
1891 John L. Herman, South Bend, Indiana 
1893 Edward J. Maurus, South Bend, Indiana 
1894 
J. J. Cooke, Chicago. Illinois James F. Kennedy, Chicago, Illinois Dr. Frank J. Powers. South Bend, Indiana 
1895 Martin Schnur, Goshen, Indiana 
1896 Rev. Thomas Crumley. C.S.C., Notre Dame 
1897 Rev. J. A. MacNamara, Garden City. N. Y. 
J. W. Loshhaueh, South Bend, Indiana 1899 
Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., Notre Dame 1900 
Judge John W. Eggeman. Fort Wayne, Ind. Angus D. McDonald, San Francisco. Calif. 
1901 
W. A. Mclnemy. South Bend. Indiana Thomas O'Meara, West Bend, Wisconsin 
1902 
Rev. F. T. McKeon. C.S.C., Notre Dame 
C. C. Mitchell, Chicago. Illinois 
W. J. Raddatz, Shaker Heights, Ohio 
1903 Rev. T. R. Murphy, C.S.C., St. Mary's Notre Dame, Indiana Vitus G. Jones, South Bend, Indiana 
C. J. Lenhard, Misha\vaka. Indiana 
D. P. O'Keefe. Detroit, Michigan Edwin Pick, W^cst Bend, Wisconsin John H. Neeson, Philadelphia, Pa. 
1904 
G. A. Farahaugh, South Bend. Indiana Robert E. Proctor, Elkhart, Indiana Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago. Illinois 
A. C. Stephan, New York City 
1905 Daniel J. O'Connor, Chicago, Illinois Wm. D. Jamicson. Chicago. Blinois 

1906 Rev. C. L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, Notre Dame Rev. Eugene Burke. C.S.C. Notre Dame Rev. Chas L. Doremus. C.S.C. Notre Dame Rev. J. H. Gallagan. C.S.C, St. Paul, Minn. Rev. Wm. C. O'Brian, Delaware. Ohio J W. Mclnemy, South Bend, Indiana Harold Fisher, Chicago, Illinois Daniel Madden. Chicago, Illinois James J. Dubbs, Cleveland, Ohio 
1907 Rev. Thomas Burke. C.S.C. Notre Dame Rev. Wm. H. Molony, CS.C, Notre Dame 
1908 

Rev. Francis T. Mahcr. C.S.C, Notre Dame Frank X. Cull. Cleveland. Ohio I.. J. Reach. Indianapolis, Indiana Maximilian St. George. Chicago, Illinois 
V. A. Parish. Momence. Illinois Wm. N. Vaughan, Lafayette, Indiana 
1909 John B. Kanaley, Chicago, DHnois Francis C. Walker, New York City 
1910 Rev. P. E. Hetert, C.S.C., Notre Dame 
M. Harry Miller, Cleveland, Ohio Rev. M. L. Moriarity, •Woostcr, Ohio Lou NaKelson, Fort Wayne, Indiana ­

1911 Pedro de Landero, South Bend. Indiana Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C, Notre Dame 
C. McGrath, St. Joseph, Michigan 
F. E. Quish, Detroit, Michigan Jasper H. I^wton, South Bend, Indiana 
J. M. Murphy, Dayton, Ohio 
W. R. Ryan. Cleveland. Ohio Fred Steers, Chicago, Illinois 
1912 
F. L. Mcndcz, South Bend, Indiana Leo J, Condon, Pana, Illinois Walter Duncan, LaSalle, Illinois Wm. J. Moran, Grand Rapids, Michigan John Elmer Peak, South Bend, Indiana 
1913 

E. C. McHugh, Cincinnati. Ohio Rev. John C. Kelley, C.S.C., Notre Dame Wm. E. Cotter, New York City Jos. A. Douglass, Lafayette, Indiana John F. OXonnell, Chicago, Illinois Vem J. Janowski, South Bend. Indiana James W. O'Hara, Chicago. Illinois 
1914 Charles L. Vaughan, Lafayette, Indiana Walter Ocments. South Bend, Indiana Frank Hayes, Chicago. Illinois Ira Hurley, Chicago, Illinois Ray Miller, Cleveland, Ohio 
1915 Rev. P. H. Dolan. C.S.C.. Notre Dame Thomas J. Shnughnessy, Chicago, Illinois James E. Sanford. Chicago, Illinois John S. Malkowski, South Bend, Indiana Mark Duncan, Chicago, Ulinois 

1916 Dr. Jeremiah A. McCarthy, Whiting. Indiana Edward C. Ryan, M. D., Chicago, Illinois Leonard M. (^rroU, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
A. J. Freund, Chicago, Illinois Timothy Calvin, Hammond, Indiana 
1917 Rev. M. A. Mulcaire. CS.C, Notre Dame Fred L. Maha£tey. Indianapolis, Indiana John Guendlinff, Syracuse. New York James I. Boland, South Bend. Indiana Daniel E. Hilgartncr, Chicago. Illinois Austin McNichoIs, Chicago, Illinois 
T. Paul Foearty. Chicago. Illinois 
R. A. Schaub, South Bend, Indiana 
V. D. Vaughan, Lafayette. Indiana 
B. J. Voll. South Bend, Indiana 
G. W. Shanndian. Lima, Ohio James R. Walsh, Chicago, Illinois 
J. Rigney Sackley, Chicago. Illinois 
J. F. Flynn, Chicago. Illinois 
1918 Wm. Andres, South Bend. Indiana Eugene O'Toole, St. Joseph, Michigan John M. Raab, lilishawaka, Indiana 
L. A. Gtasscott, 2llichigan City, Indiana 
1919 
C W. Bader. Gary, Indiana 
L. V. Harmop, South Bend, Indiana George D. Haller. Detroit, Michigan Tom King. Ix>uisville. Ky. Arthur Weinrich, Chicago, Illinois 
1920 
D. J. Patterson, South Bend, Indiana Harry Richwine, South Bend. Indiana Frank Farrington, South Bend. Indiana 
E. J. Mcehan. South Bend. In^ana AL E. Doran, South Bend. Indiana Paul Conaghan, Chicago, Illinois William E. Doyle. Chicago, Illinois Jim Brennan, Chicago, Illinois Walter Miller, Cleveland. Ohio 

Rev. F. P. Goodall. C.S.C.. Washington, D. C. Vincent Fagan, Notre Dame, Indiana 
1921 
Dan. W. Duffy, Cleveland, Ohio Earl S. Dickens, Detroit. Michigan 
H. J. McLcIIan, South Bend. Indiana Callix E. Miller, South Bend, Indiana Norman Barry, Chicago, Illinois William Allen. Chicago, Illinois Wm. E. Vaughan (El.), Lafayette. Indiana Edw. DeCourcey, Chicago, Illinois 

Leo D. Kelley, Syracuse. New York Georjre Kinney, Syracuse. New York A, Gordon Taylor, Laporte. Indiana 
1922 

Heartly Anderson, South Bend. Indiana Chas. F. Crowley. Boston. Mass. Morjian F. Sheedy, Pittsburgh, Pa. Gerald Ashe, Rochester, New York George Heneghan. South Bend. Indiana Fred B. Dresscl, Columbus, Nebraska Leo Mahoney, South Bend. Indiana Gerald Jones, Di:con, Illinois Mark Storcn. Michigan City. Indiana 
A. Harold Weber. South Bend. Indiana Aaron Huguenard. South Bend. Indiana Daniel M. Coughlin. Waseca, Minnesota Rev. D. C. Richards, C.S.C., Notre Dame Slark Foote, Cleveland, Ohio Thos. AlcCabe, Chicago. Illinois Chester Wynne, Auburn, Alabama Jerome Dixon, Chicago, Illinois George' Kerver. Qeveland, Ohio Frank M. Hughes, Chicago, Illinois 
C. v . Fites. Winamac, Indiana Dr. Edw. N. Anderson. Chicago, Illinois Clarence "Pat" Manion. Notre Dame, In;l. Joseph Farley, Chicago, Illinois. 
1923 

Wm. J. Furcy, South Bend, Indiana Richard Cordray. Springfield. Pa. Walter I. Rauh, South Bend, Indiana Linus Glotzbach, New Ulm. Minnesota 
M. J. Troman, Chicago, Illinois 
E. P. Kreimer, South Bend. Indiana Arthur J. Dicdrich. South Bend. Indiana 
E. J. C-ollins, St. Louis, Missouri Jos. Casasanta, South Bend, Indiana 
L. Smith, Chicago, Rlinois 
M. Edward Fleming. South Bend. Indiana 
J. M. Rohrbach, Cro\vn Point, Indiana Clifford B. Ward, Fort Wayne. Indiana John IE. Flynn, Chicago, Illinois Edward W. Gould, Chicago. Illinois John F. Connell. South Bend. Indiana Jos. W. Nyikos, South Bend. Indiana Wm. L. Voss. Jr., Harvey, Illinois Louis Bruggncr, South Bend, Indiana James X. Bell, East Chicago, Indiana Frank J. Galvin, Hammond. Indiana Rev. C. J. Witucki, C.S.C.. South Bend, Ind. Jerrj- Randall, Flint. Michigan Richard Falvey, Winamac. Indiana John Montague, Chicago, Illinois 
F. H. Neitzel. Boise. Idaho Paul Castner, Cleveland. Ohio 
W. E. Shea, Dayton, Ohio 
E. J. Payton. South Bend, Indiana Bruce Hotmberg. Chicago, Illinois Emerj- Toih, Toledo, Ohio Vince Currise, South Bend, Indiana 
J. G. Byrne, Williamsville. N. Y. Maurice Dacy, Chicago, Illinois 
J. F. Kennedy, New Hampton. Iowa Edmund D. Kelly, Emmettsburg, Iowa John Gleason, Cleveland. Ohio 
F. X. Disney, Albany, New York 
1924 Rev. Chas. A. McAllister, C.S.C.. Notre Dame 
J. Henry Fannan. Rockford, Illinois Thomas W. Barber, Erie, Pa. Thomas Hodgson, St. Paul, Minnesota 
W. F. G.i11agan, Poughkeepsie. New York Rev. Philip Moore. C.S.C. Notre Dame Thos. Gordon, Chicago, Illinois Thos E. Cooke. Chicago. Illinois Rev. Thos. Kelly, C.S.C Notre Dame 
E. A. Mayl, Dayton, Ohio 
J. R. Bergman. Chicago. Illinois 
J. Howard Haley, South Bend. Indiana Lawrence Spuller, Chicago, Itlinois 
D. F. Gooley, South Bend, Indiana 
J. J. Norton, Detroit, Michigan Wm. F. Ryan, Chicago, Illinois Ray Lang, Mishawaka, Indiana Bob Riordan, South Bend, Indiana 
J. Farrell- Johnston. Dayton. Ohio Wm. R. Maher, Chicago. Illinois Clifford Noonan, Chicago, Illinois 
1925 

Gerald Holland, South Bend, Indiana John F. Stoekley, South Bend, Indiana John P. Lynch, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Indiana Don. C. Miller, Cleveland, Ohio Leo J. Powers, Chicago, Illinois Robert B. Howland, St. Louis. Missouri Gilbert E. Uhl, South Bend, Indiana Frank Celebrezze, Cleveland. Ohio Gerald Miller. Cleveland, Ohio Raymond J. Sobatzki, South Alilwaukec, Wis. George E. Ludwig, Grand Rapids, Michigan 
C. Bunce, Laporte, Indiana Tom Barry, South Bend, Indiana 
G. L. Baumgartner. South Bend. Indiana Clarence W. Harding, South Bend, Indiana George Koch, South Bend, Indiana 
Dr. David Murphy, Di:Eon, Illinois 
B. G. Resting, Toledo, Ohio Ray Cunningham, Detroit. Michigan Paul Doolcy, Detroit, Michigan John Kelley, Michigan City. Indiana Paul • Sagstetter, Fort Wayne. Indiana John Noppenberger, Peoria. Illinois Lester Mark. South Bend, Indiana 
B. M. Finnigan, Chicago. Illinois Ray M. DeCourcey, Rochelle. Illinois Robert Dixon, Dixon, Illinois Willard Jones. Dixon, Illinois Gilbert Schaefer, Detroit. Michigan George Driscoll, Chillicothc. Ohio John P. Hurley, Jr.. Toledo. Ohio John J. O'Toole. Pittsburgh, Pa, Wm. Seidensticker, Columbus, Ohio Joe Hogan, South Bend. Indiana Hugh Mage^Tiy, Memphis. Tenn. James E. Armstrong, Notre Dame. Indiana 
1926 Bernard J. Schmidt. Amsterdam, New York 
J. Arthur Haley. South Bend. Indiana 
J. V. Soisson. Scotdale. Pa. Dan J. Kelly. Jr., South Bend. Indiana James Kelleghan. Chicago. Illinois Jos. A. Bailey, Chicago, Illinois 
A. F. Conlin. Chicago. Illinois Charles E. Mason. Indianapolis, Indiana Rev. Leo Gorman. C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. Jerry McGinley, Ogallola, Nebraska Urban Simon, No. Platte, Nebraska 
R. W. Durst. Waukegan. Illinois 
R. J. D'oran. Rockford. Illinois 
M. J. Curry. South Bend. Indiana Gerald W. Morsches. Fort Wayne, Indiana 
H. J. Robertson. South Bend, Indiana 
E. W. Mahoney, Indianapolis. Indiana Mike Reddington. Indianapolis. Indiana Victor LaBedz, South Bend. Indiana Wm. R. Doolcy, Culver, Indiana W, S. Pohlmeyer. St. Louis. JIo. Jos. Sexton. Indianapolis. Indiana 
R. A. Gocpfrich, South Bend. Indiana Tom Farrell. East Orange. New Jersey Wm. R. Barr, Chalmers. Indiana James Ronan. Chicago, Illinois 
1927 

Jos. A. Gartland. Jr., Boston. Mass. Albert L. Doyle, Mishawaka. Indiana Philip McCarty, Denver, Colorado Alban Smith, Laporte. Indiana Paul Butler, South Bend. Indiana Richard L. Halpin. Chicago. Rlinois John .1. Halpin, Chicago, Illinois Don Fitzgerald, Chicago. Illinois John Slattery. Chicago, Illinois Herb Jones, South Bend. Indiana Carl F. Kemps. South Bend. Indiana Clayton Loroux, Clevelanad. Ohio R, L. McQory, Chicago. Illinois 
E. C. Worthington, Chicago. Illinois Bill Coyne, South Bend, Indiana Frank Pendergast. Chicago, Illinois 
W. D. Kavanaugh. Dayton. Ohio Wm. P. Garke. Jr.. Toledo. Ohio Edw. J. Hagerty, Toledo, Ohio John F. Slorsches. Fort Wayne, Indiana Stephen Ronay, Cleveland. Ohio Frank Moran. South Bend, Indiana Thomas B. Dunn. Milwaukee. Wisconsin John E. Sullivan, Chicago. Illinois W, H. McCullough, Detroit, Michigan Thomas Byrne. Cleveland. Ohio Wm. Finucane, Chicago, Illinois Dan Har\*ey, Chicago, Illinois Charles Martin, Pittsburgh. Pa. John McNellis, Chicago, Illinois Ed McLaughlin, Chicago, Illinois Clarence Ruddy, Aurora, Illinois Herbert Braun. Aurora, Illinois 
1928 

J. M. "Botts" Crowley, Cincinnati. Ohio George G. O'Brien. Jr., Mahwoh, New Jersey 
W. H. Downey, Niles, Michigan 
E. R. Quinn, Wamsutter, Wyoming Jos. L. McCarty, Denver. Colorado John F. Robinson. Waterbury. Conn. Andrew J. Mureany, C.S.C, Notre Dame. Willard Wagner, South Bend. Indiana Louis Buckley, South Bend. Indiana George Beamer, South Bend, Indiana Matthew J. Cullinan. Chicago. Illinois Thomas J. Griffin, Chicago, Illinois James Gray, Chicago. Illinois Ray Mulligan, Chicago, Illinois John Mullen, Chicago, Illinois Jos. Timlin, Chicago. Illinois Alfred Schnurr, Sandusky, Ohio Edw. A. Huth, South Bend. Indiana 
R. E. Rich, South Bend. Indiana Bernard Loefllcr, Indianapolis. Indiana 
W. H. Konop, Indianapolis. Indiana Jos. S. Morrissey, Cincinnati, Ohio Leo R. Mclntyre, Bethlehem, Pa. Vincent Ducey. Chicago. Illinois Edmund J. Brennan, Chicago, Illinois Tom F. Walsh, Macon, Illinois Jerry DeClercq, Chicago, Illinois Wm. H. • Leahy. Jr., St. Louis. Missouri 
J. Carroll Pinkley, St. Louis, Missouri Edw. J. Conlin. Chicago, niinois Paul Brust, Milwaukee, Wisconsin Ray A. Wordcn, South Bend. Indiana George W. Flick. Fort Wayne, Indiana 
J. W. Conb<^. South Bend. Indiana Richard L. Phelan, Chicago, Illinois John D. Igoe, Lorain. Ohio George D. Byrne. Brooklyn. New York Bernard Schuh. Plymouth, Indiana Laurence Wingerter, Indianapolis. Indiana Robert Ward, Marshall. Michigan Jos. Griffin. Chicago, Illinois Leo Schneider, Pittsburgh. Pa. Arthur Stcnius. Detroit. Michigan Howard Pholin. Chicago. Illinois 
E. J. Hagerty, Toledo, Ohio 
F. Strohm. Delaw.ire. Ohio 
E. R. Weber, Chicago. Illinois Frank Creadon. Riverside. Illinois Bob, Kirby. Indianapolis. Indiana Bob' Tllohlman, Lafayette. Indiana Chester Rice. Youngstown. Ohio Roswell Leahy. Tiffin. Ohio 
Frank Holdampf. Milwaukee. Wisconsin George Conner, Brooklyn, New York Frank Gagliardi. Brooklyn. New York Vince Carney. Rochelle, Illinois Augustus Jenkins, Williamsville, New York Henry Hasley. Fort Wayne. Indiana 
M. J. Ryan. Buffalo. New York Joe Benda. Duluth. Minnesota John Wallace, Gary. Indiana Bert Korzeneski. Chicago. Illinois Michael T. Ricks, Lafayette. Indiana Lou Norman, Detroit. Michigan Ray Lawler. Chicago. Illinois .1. W. Kir\van, Portage, Wisconsin Bernard J. Bird, Buffalo, New York 
F. Floyd Searer. South Bend. Indiana Bob Grant. South Bend. Indiana Anthony DeDario. Elkhart, Indiana Richard A. Weppner, Chicago. Illinois Frank J. Quinn. St. Joseph. Missouri Francis J. Hegarty, M. D.. Pittsburgh. Pa. Jerry Biggc. Muskegon, Michigan 
Thos. F. Lavelle. Anderson, Indiana James Allan. Chicago. Illinois George Coury, Chicago, Illinois Frank Donovan, South Bend. Indiana David H. Smith, Chicago, Illinois Edw. J. Dean, Leetonia. Ohio Wayne A. Ewing, Weston, Ohio 
H. A. Persjm. Mt. Angel. Oregon John W. Cavanaugh, Chicago, Illinois Frank Kelly. Lee, Klass. 
J. R. Keams. Benton. Wisconsin 
D. JL "Turk" Meinert. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
H. A. Miller, South Bend. Indiana Wm. P. Kearney. Chicago, Illinois George Scheuer, South Bend. Indiana 
J. R. Slurphy. Fort Wayne. Indiana Robert Knox. Chicago. Illinois Martin Rini. Cleveland, Ohio John Rodgers, Chicago. Illinois John Fontana, Columbus, Ohio Ross Harrington. Richmond. Indiana James W. Bochning, Indianapolis, Indiana Francis P. McCarthy. Indianapolis. Indiana Edw. Allan Tchan, Springfield, Ohio Alvin Hans. Chicago, Illinois Norbert Seidensticker. Columbus, Ohio Robert S. Nickells. Chicago, Illinois 
1929 

Thomas M. McNicholas. Notre Dame, Ind. 
Paul C Bartholomew, South Bend. Indiana 
John B. Harrison, Jr., Stamford, Conn. 
Ivan Leblanc. Alpena. Michigan 
Donald Plunkett. South Bend, Indiana 
Francis Jones, South Bend. Indiana 
Robert Trotter, Chicago. Illinois 
Barney O'Neil, South Bend. Indiana 
Russell H. Kuehl, South Bend. Indiana 
Gaylord Haas, Cleveland, Ohio 
John J. Lyons. Chicago. Illinois 
K. J. Konop, Indianapolis. Indiana 
S. C. Bocskci. Ssuth Bend. Indiana 
J. N. Perkins. Mishawaka. Indiana Willard C Fortier. South Bend. Indiana Thomas J. Griffin. Gary. Indiana 
•
 Francis E. Metrailer, Fort Wayne, Indiana Fred Wagner. Tiffin. Ohio Harold E. Steinbacher, Battle Greek, Mich. Jules Grossman, South Bend. Indiana Wm. E. Brown. Racine. Wisconsin Robert M. Tyler. Kansas City. Mo. Jos. P. McNamara. Indianapolis, Indiana 

W.
 R. O'Malley. Aurora, Illinois 

B.
 J. Schulze, Whiting. Indiana Jos W. Laub^. South Bend, Indiana Carl P. Friedrich, South Bend. Indiana John Dorgan, Chicago. Illinois Franklyn Doan. Akron. Ohio Gerald E. Roach, Grand Rapids. Michigan Edw. J. Leahy. Chicago, Illinois Walter O'Malley, Aurora. Illinois Lyman Hill. Jr.. Jackson, Michigan 


Louis Sinclair. Marshall, Michigan 
Dr. James Toliin. Elf^in. Illinois 'Sam Colarusso, Newark, New Jersey 
Frank Smola. Chicago, Illinois 
Wm. J. Weber, ChicaRw, Illinois 
1930 
Carl WeijHind, Notre Dame. Indiana 
Devere Plunkett, South Bend. Indiana 
Harold Jcnnin;rs, South Bend. Indiana 
Edw. G. Seiter, Notre Dame, Indiana 
Joseph I*. Apodaca. South Bend. Indiana 
Ray Reardon, Waukegan, Illinois 
F. J. Sowa, Woodbum. Oregon 
R. J. Spahr, Norristown. Pa-Laurence D. Johnson. Syracuse. New York Louis Chaplcau. South Bend. Indiana Harry W. Draves, South Bend. Indiana Charles F. Lennon, JoUct, Illinois. Malcolm E. Trombley. Mt. Clemens. MichiKan James W. Sullivan. Ro>-al Oak. Michijran Joseph Reody, Battle Creek. Michiffan Edward Franck, Joliet, Illinois Henry Pratt, Peoria. IlHnois Harold Simpson. Oak Park, Illinois 
A. C. Fiedler, Forest Park, Illinois Richard N. Konkowski, Chicaco, Ulinois Frank E. Curran, Mauston, AVisconsin John M. Mahoney, Chicago. Illinois. Robert F. Egpcman. Fort Waj-ne. Indiana Jerry Reidy. Cleveland. Ohio 
Carl Trippel. Mishawaka. Indiana John D. Yelland. Minneapolis, Minnesota Neil Hurley. Chicajro, Illinois Henry H. Horka. Benton Harbor, Michijjan Martin, J. Travers, Buffalo. New York Arthur Burkert, Indianapolis, Indiana John Rocap, Indianapolis, Indiana ^ Joseph Ruppe. Hancock. Michigan 
1931 
Edward H. Myers. McKeesport, Pa-George Mattingly Spaldinjr. Bardstown, Ky. Wm. Chawpo. Aurora. Illinois Edward J. Murray, Notre Dame, Indiana Ed\rard Coomes, Notre Dame, Indiana Edward R, Brennan. South Bend. Indiana Jos. F. Deeb, Grand Rapids, MichiRsn Francis W. Brown. Pennville. Indiana Richard Giroux, Muske^ron Hsts.. Michigan 
E. E. Brennan, Grand Rapids. Michipan Laurence O'Leary, Bamsville. Minnesota Dan Lencioni. Kenosha, Wisconsin Bernard Leahy. Chicago, Illinois John C. Shively, South Bend, Indiana Clarence Taeckens, Flint Michigan George Jackoboicc. Grand Rapids. Michigan Edward F. Draves, South Bend. Indiana Eugene D. Rigney, ChilHcothe. Ohio 
Y. T. Oester. Notre Dame, Indiana Wilbert L. Terre. Chicago Hgts,. Illinois Deon Sutton, Ann Arbor, Michigan Clarence J. Donovan, Bedford, Indiana Clarence A. Durbin, Warsaw, Indiana Bernard G. McGIone, Chicago. Illinois Forrest A. West. South Bend. Indiana Jos. R. Golabowski, South Bend. Indiana 
J. J. Orzechowski, Notre Dame, Indiana Clarence Futter. Mishawaka, Indiana 
J. E. Mclntyre, Mishawaka, Indiana Benedict McShane, Chicago, Illinois Joseph Wetli, Toledo, Ohio Perry Peterson. Rolling Prairie, Indiana Maurice Mulrey. Indianapolis, Indiann 
R. J. Breen. Chicago, Illinois Alvaro Ferlini, Fort Wayne, Indiana Ray Collins, Chicago, Illinois Frank Noll, Indianapolis, Indiana James J. Comeford. Valparaiso, Indiana James T. Doyle, Chicago, IHinois 
E. S. Murphy, Dixon, Illinois Thomas Oakes, Chicago, Illinois Bill Sherman, Paducah, Kentucky. Louis Heitger. Bedford, Indiana Francis Brown. Chicago, Illinois Austin Boyle. New Orleans. La. 
M. J. Halligan, Detroit. Michigan Fran Beaupre, Grosse Pointe. Michigan Russell Beaupre, Grosse Pointe. Michigan Louis O'Shea, New York City Lawrence Krai, Cleveland. Ohio John Raleigh, Qeveland. Ohio Henry Kopek, Detroit, Michigan Albert Tuohy, Bayside. L. L. New York 
L. A. Baldinger, South Bend, Indiana 
B. J. Lenoue. Notre Dame. Indiana Wm. Reaume, Waukegan. Illinois 
1932 Wm. C. Otto. South Bend. Indiana 

J. M. Scanlan. Indianapolis, Indiana Edward P. Killccn, Cleveland. Ohio Kenneth Kreps. South Bend. Indiana George L. Hcnnion. South Bend. Indiana Joseph Lopker, St. Joseph, Michigan Robert E. Lee, Jr.. Chicago, Illinois George Brown, C.S.C., Notre Dame. Indiana Jos. A. Toussiant. Notre Dame. Indiana Louis Rohlof. Michigan City, Indiana Art Margraf, Michigan City, Indiana B. J. Roethcle, Notre Dame. Indiana Edw. F. O'Malley, Notre Dame. Indiana John S. Wittliff, Port Huron. Michigan Francis J. 0*MaIIey, Ginton, Mass-Joseph Petritz, Notre Dame, Indiana A, C. Hitzelberger, Utica. New York Jerry Wilson. Pitttsburgh. Pa. Ednmnd Britz, Chicago, Illinois Vincent Ponic, Chicago. Illinois 
S. J. Maher (Laetarc Medallist) New Haven, Conn. 
John P. Laughna. Detroit, Michigan Tom McKevitt. Ironwood. Michigan 
N. O. Schaller, Dyer, Indiana Tim Benits. South Bend. Indiana 

F. L. Murray, Battle Creek, Michigan Herbert P. Giorgio. HolUs, L. I., New York 
M. Van Etten, Chicago, Illinois Edward A. Everett, South Bend. Indiana Joseph J, Flanigan, Chicago, nUnois Sheridan Cook, Nilcs, Michigan Charles Weiss. South Bend. Indiana Dr. Sergius P. Grace, Chicago, Illinois Charlie Spangenberg, Elmhurst, Illinois Wm. DuBois, Elmhurst, Illinois 
J. B. Murray, Elmhurst. Illinois Tom O'Malley, Aurora, Illinois Arnold Weiner, Chicago, Illinois 
R. G. Schneider. Chicago, Illinois John Kramer, Ft. Morgan. Colorado Forest Hazen, South Bend. Indiana Leo T. Qark, Atlantic City, N. J. Bob Gorman, Cedar Rapids, Iowa Harold Lappin, Saginaw, Michigan Howard Miller, Cleveland. Ohio 
W. P. Comeford. River Forest, Illinois Haro* Stegman, Nevada, Missouri 
J. Ralph Carwin, Mishawaka, Indiana 
DEATHS 
L 

BROTHER MALACHY, C.S.C, a prefect in Brownson Hall from 1901 to 1904, died at Dearborn, Mich., May 2. He was born in Portadown, County Armagh, Ireland, in 1858. He was educated at the local academy and at St. Patrick's Teachers' Col­lege, Dublin, of which institution he was an alumnus. He received the habit of a Brother of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, August 15, 1899, and made his profession three years later. From 1904 to 1929 he served as teacher or prefect at St. Edward's university, Austin, Texas; in Holy Cross College, New Orleans; in Trin­ity High school, Chicago, and in Sacred Heart College, Watertown, Wis. He retired in 1929. 
A returned envelope bears the in­formation of the death of THOMAS 
F. GRIFFIN, '88, Sioux City, Iowa. 
One week after SAMUEL P. SCHWARTZ, '13, South Bend, Ind., filled out his Alumni Questionnaire in his vigorous legal manner, the Alumni Office used its information for his obituary. Coming to South Bend from Jersey City in 1910, he entered the Notre Dame law school, working as a newspaper reporter while attending college. For two years he was secretary to Father Joe Burke and did occasional work for Fathers Morrissey and Matthew Walsh. His roommates were ED­MOND SAVORD and LEO SCHU­MACHER. On Oct. 21, 1917, he -was married to Ruth E. Schock, sister of GEORG E SCHOCK, LL.B., '18, South Bend. One daughter survives, Aurelia, who has attended St Mary's since she was five years old, complet­ing her 11th year there this year. Mr. Schwartz was chairman of the Elks work in the Liberty Loan Drives during the War and has been active in various Masonic w^ork. In politics he was secretary of the St, Joseph County Democrats while in school in 1910-11, was deputy prose­cutor from 1912-18 and served three terms as prosecuting attorney, 1918­20, 1926-28 and 1930-32. Criminal law comprised his private practice. Jewish by race, it is significant of his character and his mind that his favorite priests were Fathers Schu­macher and Carrico, and his favorite laymen Judge Howard and Col. Hoynes. Also significant was his Hobby — Work. Born January 29, 1892, much activity was crowded into his 41 years. 
One of the sad deaths of a young man that, with the growth of num­bers, must find their way into these columns ^vith increasing frequency, was that of ROLLIN G. BALDWIN, '32, Chicago, who died May 20 from an infection. RoUin, "Lucky," he was called, was the brother of John Bald­win, captain of this year's basket­ball team, and was himself active in interhall sports while on the campus. 
HARRY M. JEWETT, former star athlete, half-back on Notre Dame's first football team in '87, captain of the University's first track team in '90, holder of two world's records, died suddenly June 15. The follow­ing newspaper account, from the ever-thoughtful HUGH O'DONNELL of the New York Times, classmate of the younger EDWARD H. JEWETT, '94, who died three years ago, gives a detailed story of his life. (Hugh writes: Both he and his brother are gone now. They were excellent com­panions, iine students, but were not Catholics, ye t attended Catholic schools all their lives, Ned even go­ing to Notre Dame when he was a minim. . . .) 
Harry Mulford Jewett, one of De­troit's industrial and sport leaders, died suddenly today of a heart attack at his home, near here, as he was about to leave for his office. He was 62 years old. 
The most notable achievement of his life was the organization of the Paige-Detroit Company in 1910, in association with other pioneers of the automobile industry. From the first he was president and chairman of the board, and in that capacity negotiated in 1927 the sale of the firm, now known as the Graham-Paige Motors Corporation, to the Graham brothers. 
" In 1890 Harry Jewett was the un­disputed champion of the world in 
THENOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 257 
the 100 and 220-yard dashes. He was graduated in engineering from Notre Dame University that year. 
Mr. Jewett was bom in Elmira, 

N. Y., of a family which traced its ancestry back eight generations to Edwin Jewett, a cloth manufacturer of Yorkshire England. Edwin Jew­ett's son was a Colonial officer and his great-grandson founded Jewett City, Conn. 
Surviving Harry Jewett are a wid­ow, a son, Edward Hunting Jewett 2d, and a daughter, Mrs. J. Vincent Dwyer. 
On leaving college, Mr. Jewett worked as a civil engineer on the Chicago Drainage Canal, then joined the Michigan Central Railroad as assistant engineer at Detroit. Next he went into coal mining, being with the W. P. Rend Coal Company of Chicago. In 1903 he started his own coal business at Detroit, later organ­izing the firm of Jewett, Bigelow &" Brooks, miners and wholesale coal dealers. 
For the last six years Mr. Jewett had been president of the Colonial Laundry Company of Detroit. He was a member of the Michigan Naval Reserve, and in the war with Spain served on the U. S. S. Yosemite. He was a former president of the Detroit Athletic Club, and he belonged to many other clubs in Detroit and to the New York Yacht Club. 

BIRTHS 

A note from WILLIAM J. MOONEY, JR., Indianapolis, says: "Arrived at the Mooneys on May 4th a fine nine pound boy. This was in­deed a welcome addition to the two daughters." 
TIM GALVIN writes: "In the next issue of the ALUMNUS you may announce the arrival of THOMAS ADRIAN HAYES, JR., son and heir of Thomas A. Hayes, LL.B., '16. The young gentleman was born April 
13. His parents reside at 1107 West-over Road, Fort Wayne, and rumor has it that the father is existing in the clouds as he dreams about the touchdowns that young Tommy is go­ing to score for Notre Dame in 1953." 
Arriving a day late for the Dix Reunion was Peter Castner, 6 lb. 10 oz. member by marriage of the Class of '23 since June 5. Peter, his broth­er "Pepper" and his mother are stay­ing in South Bend for the summer, while the Class Secretary pursues his new duties under the White banners in Cleveland. Paul writes: "He evi­dently was so inspired by the won­derful Notre Dame Commencement program that he decided to have a commencement of his own." 
Abraham Lincoln and Lucia Ann Geniesse arrived Feb. 12. Some day we hope to be more prompt in observ­ing Levi's daughter's birthday, too. 
Another Class Secretary takes drastic steps to produce news: "Just a note for the records, the arrival of Miss Anne Hayes on Tuesday, April 
18. The young lady and her mother are in fine health. The father is for­tunate that his office is in the Empire State Building because no other would be big enough to hold him these days. Judging from the way the Hayes daughter is sleeping the clock around she will make a first rate Class Secretary some day." 
From the opposite coast: "This will announce the arrival of John Jlichael on April 16, weight 7 lbs., 8 ozs. —JOHN F. KILKENNY," Pendleton, Ore., '25. 
And from that same distinguished Class of '25 comes Sarah Anne Gor­don to the Bob Gordons on May 20, joining Robert K., Jr., two years her senior. 
CHARLEY and Mrs. MARGUET, '26, announce the birth of a son Charles Patrick, New Albany, Indi­ana, on May 8. 
ED and Mrs. MC CLARNON, '28, announce the arrival of Edmund Michael on April 22, Detroit, Mich. 
JOHNNY FREDERICK, '28, and Mrs. Frederick are parents of a son, born June 13. 
Another coach who has started raising his own material is LARRY MULLINS, '31. "The New Moon" appeared May 27—Lawrence A. Jr. 
Word from BERNIE CONROY relays the arrival of a future All-American guard to the BERT METZ­GERS, 6103 N. Hayne Ave., Chicago. Bert, who is learning the dairy busi­ness from the pump up, is reported to have rung the doorbell of every customer before dawn to break the 
FRANK D'MUHALA, writes from Stamford, Conn., where he is proba­tion oflicer for the Juvenile Court: "On April 3rd was inducted into the Juvenile and City courts as chief probation officer. On April 15th, I received this telegram from New York, where my wife Irene remained for some time — Happy landing at 3:40, stowaway on board, a little girl and her name is Joan. 

MARRIAGES 

Miss Katherine Marwitz, Lake­wood, Ohio, and H. LOUIS STETT­LER, '30, were married April 20th. They are residing in Pittsburgh where Louie is manager of the Pitts­burgh office of-the U. S. Transporta­tion Company. 
Miss Anne Agnes Britt, Philadel­phia, and DR. KELVIN A. RAS­PER, '24, were married April 20th in Philadelphia. 
On April 29th Miss Assumpta Martha Chessare was married to RICHARD A. HINCHCLIFFE, '28, in Paterson, New Jersey. 
The marriage of Miss Margaret Marcelle Sacher, Wheeling, West Va., and LEO J. KLETZLY, '31, took place May 4, in Blessed "Trinity Church, Wheeling. 
Miss Catherine Veronica Carey and FRANCIS X. AMATO, '30, were married at St. Luke's Church, River Forest, Illinois, on May 8th. 
Miss Mary Cray, Uniontown, Pa., and JOHN C. SHEEDY, '28, were married May 10 in St. John's Church, Uniontown, Pa. 
"Miss Margaret Dwyer, Kokomo, Indiana, and WILLIAM BRODER­ICK, '27, were married May 20 in St. Peter and Paul Cathedral, Indian­apolis, Indiana. 
Miss Marion AuU, Cincinnati, Ohio, was married to JAMES M. BRADY, '29, in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame on June 9. 
Miss Dorothy Miriam Beck, Water­loo, Iowa, was married to ROBERT 
A. HOLMES, '30, June 10 in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. 
Miss Vera Peters,New Paris, In­diana, and DR. FRED BUECHNER, 
•23, were married June 10 in South Bend, Indiana. 
Miss Mary Agnes Carey, Salem, Ohio, and PAUL BARTHOLOMEW, '29, were married in Salem on June 13. 
The marriage of Miss Kathryn M. Poelking, Cleveland, Ohio, and JOHN 
A. GALLAGHER, '26, took place June 14 in St. Francis Church, Cleve­land. 

Miss Virginia Alice Ortlieb, Chil­ton, Wisconsin, and JOSEPH J. KURTH, '33, were married June 14 in St. Mary's Church, Chilton, Wis-_ consin. 
The marriage of Miss Wilma Ann. Bieker and JOSEPH F. DONALD­SON, '23, will take place June 29 in St. Joseph's Church, Hammond, In­diana. 
Miss Adelaide Pilcher, South Bend, Indiana, will marry AL WELZBN­BACH, '30, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, June 24. 
Miss Irma Anderson, South Bend, Indiana, and WILLARD C. FORTIER, '29, will be married June 29 in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 


LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON— Glen Smith. '21. S32 Elmoro Ave. President; C. G. McGuckin. '2S. 1735 W. Market St., Secretary. 
NOTKE DAME CLUB OF ARIZONA— James D. Bany, *97. 82 W. Penninffton St., Tucson. President; Steve Kebeil, '25, 620 N. Sixth St.. Tucson. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AEKANSAS— Kev. Geo. F. X. Strassner, "14. Hope. Prtaident: Burt L, Roberts, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C., '02, Dac­ca, President: Rev. J. J. Henessey, C.S.C., Dacca. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON— Joseph C Sullivan. President: Robert J. Heam. 43 Chester Road, Belmont, Mass., Secretarj*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO— Paul D. Hocfller. '25. 280 Woodward Ave., Buffalo, President: Edmund J. Lutz, Jr., •24, 91 Beard Ave., Buffalo, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME OLUB OF THE CALU­MET DISTRICT—wmiam L. Voss, Jr., '23. 55B21 Vine Ave., Harvey, Illinois, President; William R. Dooley. '26, 211— 157th St.. Calumet City, Illinois, Secre­tary. 
NOTRE D.,UIE CLUB OF THE CAPI­TAL DISTRICT—Thomas Dollard, '21, 200 9th SL, Troy, New York, President: John Vincent Smith. '29. 252 First St.. Albany. New York. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO— Austin McNichols, '17, c. o. W. A. Alex­ander £ Co., 134 S. LaSalle St, Presi­dent : William P. Kearney. ' '28. 507 County Bids., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI —Robert Hughes, '29, 3E65 Burch Ave., Fresideat: W. D. Morrissey, '26. Cath­olic Charities Bureau, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND —Matthew Trudelle. '17. 1023 Scoficld Bids.. President; J. Patrick Canny. '28. 
c. o. Erie Railroad Le?al Dept,, Medical Arts Bldg., Secretari'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CON­NECTICUT VALLEY—William J. Gran­fidd. '13. Slate BldE.. 1200 Main Street, Springfield, Mass.. President: James A. Cuny, '14, 647 Main St., Hartford, Conn.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DALLAS, TEXAS—James P. Swift. '24, 422 In­tcrurban Bldfr.. Dallas. President. Fran­cis A. MsCullough, '30. 917 First Nat­ional Bank Bldg., Dallas, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON— Robert Ohmer. '08. 512 Mutual Home Bldg., Dayton, President: Andrew A. Aman. Jr., *30. 210 Lexington Ave.. Dayton. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER— David Hickey. '28. 1515 Grant St.. pres­ident: O. L. Hough. '27. 1575 Race St.. Secretarj'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES —Earl Walsh. '22. Des Moines Catholic College. President; Charles H. Lynch, 
•28, 1429 - 13th St.. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT— John T. Higgins. '24. 1632 Buhl Bldg.. President: Paul J. Dooley, '25, 6202 Hamilton Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTEE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Dr. J. A. Flynn, El. '12. ISll H. L Ave.. N. W., Washington. President; James D. Hayes. 5116 Eighth St., N. W., Washington, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE, PA.— Richard D. Daley, •17. Erie Daily Times. President; Thomas Barber. ^24, 416 Newman St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY — J.-imes Murphy. '22. 611 Securities Bldg.. Bridgeport, Conn., President: Joseph E. Itusso. '32. 1G6 Hough Ave.. Bridgeport, Conn.. Secre­tarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE -Frank J. Gilmartin. '01. 336 W. Wool-and Ave.. President: Robert Eggcman. '30. Old First Bank Bldg.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY —Harold L. Londo. '24. City Engineers' Office. City Hall, Green Bay, Wis.. Presi­dent; Levi A. Genicsse, '24. 510 Minahan Bldg.. Green Bay, Wis., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAP­IDS, MICH.—George E. Ludwig. '25. 328 Glenhaven Ave.. N. W., President; Ray­mond J. Bonini. ^27, 2460 Oakwood Dr., 
S. E., Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAMILTON. OHIO—^M. O. Bums, '86. 338 S. Second St., President: Mare A. Fichrer, '27, 701 Rentschler Bldg., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAWATHA­LAND—Norman Bartholomew. •IS. 225 Qeveland Ave., Iron Mountain, Mich.. President: Michael S. Coriy. ^27, 837 Terrace Ave.. Marinette, Wis.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON— IL E. Walter, ^14, 1702 Stuart Ave., Houston, Texas, President: T. F. Green, Jr., '27, Conroe, Texas. Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAP­OLIS—Robert Kirby, '29, 1901 N. Merid­ian. Indianapolis. President: John T. Rocap, •SO, Fidelity Trust Bldg., In­dianapolis, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET— Charles Lcnnon, •30, 605 Herkimer St., President: Thomas Fecley, ^32, 316 Buell Ave., Secretary-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS CITY —Daniel F. Foley. ^23. 25 Wint Ave.. Ft. Leavenworth, Kansas, President: John 
M. Dugan, ^27, 4427 Tracy St., Kansas City. Mo., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS—Al­bert J. Gebert, '30. U. of Kansas, Wich­ita, President: Dan Wclchons, 'iO. 306 
E. 13th St., Hutchinson, Kansas. Sec'y. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KENTUCKY— Wm. A. Reisert. Jr.. "M, Reisert Ins. Agency. 352 Starks Bldg.. Louisville, Ky., President: Herman J. Ohligschlag­cr. '29. Broadway .it 30th St.. Nat'l. Concrete Construction Co., Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ICANE COUNTY —^Wniiam B. Chawgo, '31, Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co., 303 Graham Bldg.. Aurora, 111., Secretary pro tern. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LAPORTE. INDIANA—A. Gordon Taylor. '18. 1507 Indiana Ave.. Laporte. President: Nor­man Duke, '33, 304 Niles St., Laporte. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOS AN­GELES—Judge A. A. Scott. '22. 2205­Sth Ave.. President: Edward P. Cun­ningham. '30, 1031 S. Grand Ave., Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUISIANA­raSSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke. '88, 307 Camp St.. New Orleans, President: Cyp­rian A. Sporl, Jr., '28, Whitney-Central Bldg., New Orleans, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA—Al­fonso Zobel, '24, do Ayala & Cia, 21 Galle Juan Luna, Manila. President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS— Hugh Magevney. Jr.. 1878 Union Ave.. President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILW.\UKEE —William J. Redden. ^14. 3525 W. North Ave.. Milwaukee. President; Paul Brust. 
•28. 135 W. Wells St., SKwaukee, Secre­tary. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF MONTANA— Earl W. Brown. '93. 320 Power St.. Helena. President: James B. O'FljTin. '11, Great Falls, Secretar>-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NASHVILLE —Robert P. Williams. Jr.. '29. 106 Gal­latin Rd., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEBRASKA— Gerald J. Barret. '22, 315 S. 37th St.. Omaha. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JER­SEY—Robert Phelan. '22. 481 William St.. East Orange, N. J.. President: Joseph Nulty, *27. 945 Madison Ave.. Elizabeth. N. J.. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE D.-VME CLUB OF CITY OF NEW YORK—John F. Kennj-. '21. care of Foster Wheeler Corp.. 165 Broadwaj-, President: J. Norbert Gelson, '26, 1201 Troj- Ave.. Brooklyn, Secretarj*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA — Roj-al H. Bosshard, '17, 315 Montgomerj- St.. San Francisco, President; Robert B. Hill. '23. 5033 Proctor Ave., Oakland, Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREGON—Gen­eral J. P. O-Neil, '83. Army Recruiting Station. Second and Washington Sts.. Portland. President; L. Bernard Macnah, '25, Terminal Sales Bldg., Portland, Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO—Raj-mond J. Eichenlaub, "IE. Hoster Realty Bldg., Columbus, Presi­dent. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA— Thomas F. Shea. o. s.. '09, 902 Ex­change Natl. Bank, Tulsa. President: Leo A. Schumacher, '13, King Wood Oil Co., Okmulgee, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS—Hold­ers of Permanent Seats: Louis P. Harl. 
•16, Paris Office. N. Y. Herald. 
NOTRE D.-UIE CLUB OF PHILADEL­PHIA — Harry Francis. Jr.. '30. 15 Spring Ave.. Ardmore. Pa.. President: Thomas J. Magee. '32. 5801 Chew St.. Philadelphia. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PEORIA. ILL. —Albert F. Gury, '28, 704 W. Wilcox Ave.. President: Joseph Langton. '28. 207 Hillyer Place, Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER —^Thomas Ashe. '31, 226 Glen Ellyn Way, Rochester, President: Raj-mond D. Downs. '2G. 46 Qinton Ave.. S.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY—R.iymond C. Marelli, '27. 1418 Eighth St.. Rockford. III., Presi­dent: Francis W. Howland. '25. 902 N. Main St.. Rockford, 111., Secretarj-. 
NOTRE D.AME CLU B OF RHODE ISLAND—Oiarles A- Grimes, '20, Pars-mount Bldg,, Providence', President: Oy­ril A. Costello. '29, 44 Huxley Ave.. Providence, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JO­SEPH VALLEY—Paul M. Butler, '27, 802 I.O.O.F. Bldg.. South Bend. Indiana, President; Norman J. Hartzer, '29, 843 Forest Ave.. South Bend. Indiana. Sec­retary. 
NOTEE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS— Leo Sutliffe, '24. 2T0I So. Grand, Proi­dent: Robert HeUnmg, 'SO. 7214 North-moor Drive. University City, Ho.. Secy. 
(Continued on next page) 

List of Class Secretaries 
Local Alumni Clubs 
(Continued) 
NOTRE DAME OLUB OF SIOUX CITY— Vincent F. Harrinstxin, '25, Continental Mortgage Co., President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK—Vincent Brown, '23. 1418 James St., Syracuse. President; Vincent Goulet, '26, 125 Green St., Syracuse, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SOUTHWEST­ERN TEXAS—Harold Tynan. '27. 240 
E. Huisactce Ave., San Antonio, Texas, President; Kirwin J. Williams, '28, 106 
E. Rosewood, San Antonio, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN, OHIO —C. J. Schmidt, 'II, 260 Mclmore St, President; Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO—Mr. Jolin Q. Carey, '27. 2614 Cliase St., Toledo, President; Fred A. Sprenger, 3129 Kimball Ave.. Toledo, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE TRI­CrriES—Richard B. Swift, '20, Kohl Bld^., Davenport, la.. President; Henry 
M. MeCuUough, '20, 26 McCulIough BIdg., Davenport. la.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE CITIES—Joseph Carey. '32. 20 Roose­velt Ave.. Endicott, New York, Presi­dent : Joseph Hennessy, '30. 115 Bur­bank Ave., Johnson City, N.Y., Scc­retarj*. 
TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— John J. Doyle. '28. 414 2nd Ave.. S.. Minneapolis, Minn., President; Robert FoBerty. '2S. ColleKc.ot St. Thomas. St. Paul, Minn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTAH—Ray­mond R. Brady, '24. 206 Keams Bldg., Salt Lake City, President: Cyril Har­becke, '19, 64 F. St., Salt Lake City, Sec 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE WABASH VALLEY—Noble Kizer, '25, Purdue Uni­versity, Lafayette, Ind., President; Peter Vogt, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA —Leo R. Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem, Pa., Temporary Chair­man; Charles B. McDermott, '27, Allen­town, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF V/ESTERN PENNSYLVANIA —John B. Reardon, '22. 716 Union Bank BICIB.. PittsburBh, President: Joseph Bach. '25. Duquesne University Athletic Dept., PittsburBh, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN WASHINGTON—Dr. Clarence Shannon. o3. '02: Stimson BldB.. Seattle. Wash., President; E. Morris Starrett. •14-'21, El. '23, 801 Washington St., Port Town­send. Wash., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY —George A. Gaflney, '98-'99, 54 Park PL. Waterbury, Conn.. President; James 
M. Monaghan. '27, 44 Ayer St., Water­bury, Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WHEELING, 
W. VA.—Thomas F. Howley, '11, Citi­zens-Peoples Trust Co., Wheeling. Presi­dent: George Sargus, '28, 2111 Belmont, Betlalre, Ohio, Secretary. 
THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME—Sister M. Agnes Alma. O. P., Mt. St. Mary-on-the-Hudson, Newburgh. New York, President: Miss Rose Stef­faniak, 161 Walnut St., Coldwater, Mich., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGS-TOWN—John J. Kane, Jr., '25. 1018 First National Bank, President; Norman Smith, '24, 126 Roslyn Dr., Secretary. 

Ytar Name 
Before 1880 Hon. Thos. F. Gallagher 
1830-85  Prof. Robert M. Andersoi  
1886  Michael 0. Bums  
1887  Hon. Warren A. Cartier  
1883  John L. Heineman  
1889  P. E. Burke  
1890-93  Louis P. Chute  
1894  Hugh A. O'Donnell  
1895  Eustace Cullinan, Sr.  
1896  William P. Bums  
1897  Rev. John A. MacNama  
1898  Wm. C. Kegler  
1899  Dr. Joseph F. Duane  
1900  John W­ Eggeman  
1901  Joseph J. Sullivan  
1902  C. C. Mitchell  
1903  Francis P. Burke  
1904  Robert Proctor  
1905  Daniel J. O'Connor  
1906  Thomas A. Lally  
1907  T. Paul McGannon  
1908  Frank X. Cull  
1909  E. P. Cleary  
1910  Rev. M. L. Moriarty  
1911  Fred L. Steers  
1912  B. J. Kaiser  
1913  James K. Devitt  
1914  Frank H. Hayes  
1915  James E. Sanford  
1916  Timothy P. Galvin  
1917  Edward J. McOsker  
1918  John A. Lemmer  
1919  Clarence Bader  
1920  Leo B. Ward  
1921  Alden J. Cusick  
1922  Gerald Ashe  
1923  Paul Castner  
1924  James F. Hayes  
1925  John W. Scallan  
1926  Dr. Gerald W. Hayes  
1927  Edmund DeClercq  
1923  Louis Buckley  
1929  Joseph McNamara  
1930  Bernard W. Conroy  
1931  John E. Boland  
1932  Herbert Giorgio  
1933  Donald Wise  

338 S. Second St., Hamilton, Ohio Ludington, Michigan Conneraviile, Indiana 301 Camp St. New Orleans. La. 7 University Ave., Minneapolis, Minnesota The New York Times. New York City 860 Phdan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 327 Willard Ave., Michigan City, Indiana 
aI6 N. Elm St. Garden City, New York 9th and Sycamore Sts.. Cincinnati, Ohio. 418 Jefferson Bldir., Peoria. Illinois 1201 First National Bank Bldg., Fort Wayne, Ind. 1300, 139 N. aark St, Chicago, Illinois 110 S. Dearborn St. Bos 3. Chicago, HI. 904 Trust Company Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin Monger Bldg., Elkhart. Indiana 10 S. IjiSalle St, Chicago, Illinois 811-13 Paulsen Bldg., Spokane, Washington Bar Bldg.. 36 W. 44th St, New York City Buckley Bldg., Clevelan'd, Ohio 
P. O. Box 356, Momence, Illinois 627 Beall Ave., Wooster, Ohio 1635 First National Bank Bldg., Chicago, Illinois 324 Fourth St, Pittshnrsh, Pennsylvania 921 Engineers Bldg., Qeveland. Ohio 1055 Granville Ave., Chicago, Illinois 1033 S. Linden Ave., Highland Park. III. 708 First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Indiana 104 S. Union St, Elgin, Illinois 1110-8th Ave., S., E^canaha. Michigan 650 Pierce St, Gary, Indiana 1012 Black Bldg., Los Angeles. California 1 Park Ave., New York City 226 Glen Ellyn Way, Rochester, New York White Motor Company, Cleveland, Ohio Fifth Avenue Ass'n. Empire State Bids., N. Y. City Pulbnan Co., 79 E. Adams St, Chicago^ HI. 38 N. 12th St, Newark, New Jeney 8126 Drexel Blvd., Chicago, Blinoii 718 E. Corby St, South Bend, Indiana 231 Wisconsin St. Indianapolis, Indiana 1055 Park Ave.. New York City 3624 Chestnut St . Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 9005 I88th St, Hollis, L. I., New York 110 Pleasant St, Joliet. Illinois 


Commencement Pictures 
.'Vlumni desiring pictures of the 1933 Commencement can secure them through the .A.LUMNUS. 
Three pictures 7x9 inches, and one 7x17, of the Commence­ment views and celebrities reprinted in this issue, can be had for | 1 by writing to the -A.LUMNUS, Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind. 
SPICY leaves of TCRKisn tobacco are strmig lo dry and cure in the sun. 




Wii.tk ats sometJ liing' ab( •out cigarettes i never knew beiore 
I'd never thought much about Avhat's inside a Chesterfield cigarette. But I have just been read­ing something that made me think about it. 
Just think of this, some of the tobacco in Chesterfield—the Turkish—comes from 4000 miles airay! And before it is shipped every single leaf is packed by hand. 
Of course I don't knoiv much about making cigarettes, but I do know this—that Chesterfields are milder and have a very pleasing aroma and 
The cma/ietie^la^b MILDER taste. They satisfy—and that's what counts! 
Tfte TASTES BETTER 
O 1933. LIGGETT & ^tYERS TOBACCO CO. 






