The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Vol. 39 No. 
February, 1961 


TNOTRE 
J.VMES E. ARMSTRONG, 'Z 
Editor 
JOHN F. Li\UGHLI.\, '48 Managing Editor 

ALUMNI BOARD ELECTS '61 OFFICERS; FLEMING, '40, TO GUIDE ASSOCIATION 
Four Directors Elected by Membership; 
Installed at Winter Meeting 
\Valtcr L. Fleming. Jr.. '40. of Dal­Installed bv the board as new mem­las, Texas, was elccled jjiesiclent of t!;e bers were the winners ol an election Uni\crsity of Notre Dame .Miimni .-\s-held in December among members of 
the .Association: John P. Dempsey. '49, 

~ sociation at the winter meetings of the 
Philadelphia. Pa.: Patrick .-\. Dough­
.Association's board of directors Janu­
erty. ',")0. Minneapolis. Minn.: ^Villiam 
aiy 19-20. Named to vice-jjresi­
H.Fal'on, '37. .New Rochelle, .N. V.: 
dcncies were Panl J. Gushing. '31, of 
and Oliver H. Hunter. "43. New Castle. 
Oakland, Calif., who continues in the 

Pa. Dempsey had just completed the post: James J. H\riie. "43, ol Royal 
une.xoired term of the late Charles Oak, Mich.: and W. Etinuiiid .Shcn. 
Roh:-. "30. of Cleveland. Th.e board '23. of Dayton. Ohio. James E. .Ann-adjomned on January 20 to take part strong, '25. conlinue.'; as e.vcciitive sec-in [he 1960-61 Council of .Ahitnni Ciub retaiy, and retiring President John C Presidents January 20-22. Reports on O'Connor. '38. accedes to the ofiice of the proceedings of both meetings will -.honorary president. 
be included in the March .AJ-L-.M-N-L'S. 

NEW OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS of the Alunmi .Association, gathered at the winter meeting of the Board of Directors after their election and installation on January 20, in­cluded: (seated, 1. to r.) Paul Gushing, '31, second-term vice-president; John O'Connor, '38, retiring and honorary president; Walter Fleming, '40, president-elect; and W. E. "Red" )Shea, '23, vice-president-elect; (standing, I. to r.) 1961-64 directors Jack Dempsey, '49; Pat Dougherty, '50; OUie Hunter, '43, and Bill Fallon, '37; and Jim .Armstrong, '25 elected to a 35th term as executive secretary. Missing was Jim Byrne, '43, a new vice-president. 
'Personal Responsibility' To Keynote 38th Annua! 
U.N.D. Night On April 10 
.At the winter meeting the Board 
of Directors of the Notre Dame .Alumni 
.Association selected "Pereonal Re­
sponsibility" as the theme of the 38th 
annual observance of Universal Notre 
Dame Night, scheduled for Monday. 
.April 10, 1961. 
The President's Committee on Na­
tional Goals, headed by former Presi­
dent Henry \\'riston of Brown Uni­
versity, reported that the major need 
of the nation today is a sense of per­
sonal responsibility. 
The 1960 meeting of the Bishops of the Catholic Church in this coimtry similarly called for a rettnn to this sense of personal responsibility. 
The coincidence of this phrase in these two major pronoimcements would seem to make this an outstanding theme for the annual meeting of the alumni of the University of Notre Dame in their 179 Local .Alumni Clubs. 
The theme is applicable to alumni e\enwhere. It is applicable to the program of continuing education, which is essen-
THE HOLY CROSS F.ATHERS at Notre Dame it'ili gratefully accept sti­pends to offer their Masses for any intention requested by alunmi. Write to Rev. Ferdinand Brown, C.S.C., Superior, University of Notre Dame, Corby Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
tially a matter of personal initiative. 
It is applicable to the major prob­lem of University admissions, since it imderlines the responsibility for eligi­bility of the boy and the family. 
It is applicable to our program of encouragement of alumni to partici­pate in civic and Church programs, since it puts the sense of obligation on the individual and not on the organi­zation or the parish or the political party. 


1961 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
by JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 
Thirty-five years ago this month I took over the duties of Alumni Secre­tar)' and Editor of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS from Alfred C. Ryan, '20. 
Actually, I was the first full-time holder of these jobs, as Al Ryan had also functioned as graduate manager of athletics. 
The Alumni Association was or­ganized in 1868, and was reorganized on a permanent annual meeting basis in 1908. Office and magazine began in 1923. 
ALUMNI Membership by 1926 was slightly over 2,500 — a figure that now represents the growth in our graduates in a two-year period. Present total membership is 30,510. This is the list to whom the Notre Dame ALUMNUS goes four times yearly in major form and twice yearly in four-page editions. Also going to all alumni, and a similar number of non-alumni friends of Notre Dame, is tlie quarterly NOTRE DAME, established in 1948 through Alumni As­sociation interest, edited by me until 1957 when Associate Editor, John Cackley, '37, assumed full editorial re­sponsibility. 
CLUBS Alumni Clubs, the frontiers of the University throughout the U. S. and the world, numbered eight in 1908, and jumped to forty-five by 1926, following the institution of Universal Notre Dame Night in the Spring of 1924. 
Today we have 168 Local Alumni Clubs in the United States and 11 in other countries for a total of 179. A survey of Clubs shows that (from a fourth of the total) the average num­ber of meetings each year is six, the average number of mailings eight, which indicates an intensive Club ac­tivity. 
CLASSES The columns of the ALUMNUS reflect the growing volume of Class news and interest 
The Reunions continue to grow. 
without intensive promotion, and now demand facilities for more than 1,000 returning alumni in June. The cost-figure reunion fee saved the University some $18,000 in June, 1960. 
Our cultivation of our young alumni begins with the datebook prepared by Allan Powers, '51, and given by the Alumni Association each September to the undergraduate members of all Classes. We have re-established the Senior Class Dinner in the Spring. And for the Class of 1960 we co­operated in the publication of the first Senior Class Alumni Director^', whose value seems assured but still re­mains to be proved by Class interest during several more years. 
The Class Secretaries Conference in January, 1960, furthered Class activity. 
FOUNDATION The Annual Alumni Fund, established in 1942, under As­sociation President Harry Kelly, '17, continues to be the solid core of the annual giwng program, which, through Alumni Association cooperation, was expanded into the Notre Dame Foun­dation in 1947 through the efforts of President Harrj' Hogan, '04. Since that time, alumni alone have contrib­uted more than six million dollars and the Foundation reports total more than thirty million dollars in gifts, grants and bequests. 
Current emphasis is on a three-year intensification of the long-range pro­gram, to achieve eighteen million dol­lars and in particular twelve millon dollars necessary for a matching three-year grant of sbc million dollars offered by the Ford Foundation. Notre Dame is the only Catholic institution included in the Ford offer. 

U.N.D.
 NIGHT The 1960 observance of the annual Universal Notre Dame Night established by the Alunmi As­sociation in 1924, under the late John 

H.
 Neeson, '03, was the largest in scope and the most significant in depth of any Night in the series, contributing greatly to the prestige and public re-• 


lations of the Universit>' and Notre Dame men everj^vhere. " 


U.N.D. COMMUNION SUNDAY The 
early returns on the 1960 obser\'ance of this annual Universal Communion Sunday, established in 1938 by the Notre Dame Club of New York City, indicate that it was wide spread among many Clubs, and offered a pioneer movement to inform lay Catholic alumni of the significance of the forth­coming Ecumenical Council. A cable of approbation from the Holy Father was relayed to all Clubs, and the " meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Rome provided a fitting highlight. 
CONTINUING EDUCATION This re­latively new effort to introduce con­tinuing education among alumni has been effective in the inserts in the Notre Dame ALUSINUS under the genera! heading of The Sublime Tradition, an insert which the Association has of­fered to the Notre Dame Scholastic and which the student publication has© featured. 

A most significant development in this direction in 1960 was the intro­duction of the Notre Dame Club of New York Forum, through the leader­ship of President William Cuddy, '52, featuring in each program two out­standing speakers representing opposite points of view on current areas of thought. The initial Forum featured George Shuster and George Sokolsky on liberal and conser\'ative viewpoints.^ 
HELD SECRETARY The contact with 
Local Alumni Clubs has been strength­
ened in 1960 by the appointment of 
Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41, as Father Hesburgh's representa­tive m bringing the University and 1 the Congregation of Holy Cross closer 1 
to alumni. Father O'Donnell has ' visited a number of Clubs while retain-' ing his position as Associate Director ' of the Notre Dame Foundation, and has contributed to Club and alumni^, thinking by articles in the ALUMNUS. 
(Continued on last page). 

The University of Notre Dame 


Alumni Association 
January 20, 1961 
Fellow Alumni: 

]J) As Notre Dame progresses she encounters her problems. There are those alumni and university friends who are tempted to con­clude that Notre Dame can no longer be a "football great"; that all athletic and extracurricular activities, so fond in our memories, have been shunted aside for the sole goal of scholastic achievement and excellence in her students. A few presently doubt that the great number of Alumni and friends all over the country, and in many foreign nations, will continue in their love, devotion and interest in the school 
: of Our Lady. These few also indicate pessimism regarding the present drive for the Library Fund which they would believe will fail because the football team lost more than it won the last few years. Finally they would have us believe that Notre Dame, having achieved national prominence in the past to an admitted substantial extent because of the success of her football teams, is now doomed to the rank of merely a sectional private school. 
But the indicated reasons for all of this doubt and pessimism are simply unfounded. Certainly none of us would hesitate to agree 
• that the primary purpose of Notre Dame is to educate the whole boy to such a degree that it realizes the student's intellectual potentiality. The administration at Notre Dame is constantly striving to provide each student with not only a superior degree of instruction in a well balanced educational program, but also with Just as an effective program of athletic and extracurricular activities. It is true that v.'iA 
kthe great influx of postwar students clamoring to be admitted to this and other great universities that the inevitable, and certainly happy, result is that the average student who enters Notre Dame is much more advanced than those who entered not too many years ago. Thus the standards here and cverj'wherc in our universities and colleges have been appreciably elevated. Certainly this must be a good. 
All of this however does not mean that the days of Notre Dame's excellent football, basketball and other athletic teams are some­thing in the past. I can personally assure you that Father Hcsburgh and Father Joyce are perhaps more anxious than you are that ne-xt year — or perhaps several seasons later — the Victory March will ring out after frequent victorious seasons. Although each true alumnus finds each defeat hard to swallow, perhaps it has effectively portrayed to us the correct balance between the scholastic and athletic phases of the universit>- effort. It is not merely an accident that the Ford Foundation has twice chosen Notre Dame to assist in improving the educational standards and curricula throughout the nation by the Foundation's generous grants to us. You do know that in the last few years the increased excellence of our faculty and the administration leadership has been many times demonstrated by the astounding number of Rhodes, Wilson, National Science Foundation, Danforth, Fulbright and Marshall Fellowships that our students have been awarded, for which educational leaders throughout the world have paid glowing tribute to Notre Dame. This will continue at Notre 
*Dam e and in this same atmosphere we are confident we shall also see Notre Dame returning to her former place in the athletic world. There is no formula which concludes that a university which achieves academic excellence cannot also excel in its athletic endeavors. While Notre Dame is meeting this current problem, and in time surmounting it, we are sure that the loyalty of Notre Dame men everywhere, tempered with right reason, will not waver. 
In this my last letter I should like to briefly comment on some of the recent work of your Alumni Board. We believe you will find most revealing and thought provoking the series beginning now in the ALUSJ.VUS on the results of the Notre Dame Alumni Self Study , Questionnaire, which should prove beneficial to both the University and her alumni. 
' Regarding the all important Foundation Drive for the new Library and other vital purposes the following quotation from a recent C Alumni Board resolution should emphasize your part in it: "That the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association expresses appreciation ;• for the Ford Foundation grant and its opportunities, and strongly urges everj- Notre Dame alumnus to give during these three years if ' he has not given before and certainly to repeat his gift if he is a regular contributor; to increase this annual gift wherever possible in the flight of the generous matching gift opportunity; and to cooperate with the Notre Dame Foundation in the personal solicitation of. such 
•: gifts from alumni and non-alumni friends." 
• We were in attendance at the recent Football Banquet, staged by President Joe Hickey and his St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club. \ Over 1100 people exhibited a loud vote of confidence in Head Coach Joe Kuharich and honored the 1960 team. 
In concluding our administration I must say that it has been both a unique and exciting experience to have served as your 1960­; 1961 President of the Alumni ."Association. I can only attempt to compensate you for this honor by promising you to do all within my '. power in the future to help Notre Dame, her administration, faculty, students ?nd alumni, which after all is the second family of each f Notre Dame Man. Best wishes to President Fleming; Vice-Presidents Gushing, Byrne, and Shea; and Secretary Armstrong. 
? Sincerely yours in Notre Dame, 
pJL(Pt 
•'•i 
CLUB PRESIDENTS GATHER FOR 1960-61 COUNCIL 
EjSESSS^ 

SOME OF THE PRESIDENTS of Notre Dame Alumni Clubs throughout the United States arc Aawn between meetings of the 1960-61 version of the biennial Council of Alumni Club Presidents held on the Notre Dame campus January 20-22, 1961. Names of registrants 
1961 Report 

(Continued from page 2) PLACEMENT Alumni job counseling and placement has been satisfactorily served by the Placement Office of the Universit)', directed by Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C, '29. The Placement Office was developed from the earlier placement work initiated in the Alumni Office by the late William K. Dooley, '26, and later transferred under Bill Dooley's direction to its present full-time University status. 
ADMISSIONS Tliis is the field recently described as tlie most important in alumni work in the years immediately ahead. High school \'isits and student 
ALUMNUS Magazine 
Vol. 39, No. 1 February, 1961 Notre Dame, Ind. 

Return postage guaranteed 

U.N.D. NIGHT April 10. Theme: 
"Personal Respottsibility' 
mil be included in the March issue. 

interviewing were initiated by the Alumni Association and the Alumni Clubs, but the growing volume and significance of the project has resulted in the direction of these activities ema­nating properly from the Admissions Office, under Rev. James E. Moran, 
G.S.C.j '27. Alumni high school visit­ing committees and student interview committees have been established by Father Moran, and by his predecessor the late Father Richzu'd Murphy, in many of the Club areas. 
ALUMNI REPRESENTATION Alumni are unusually well represented in the Uni­versity administration by the presence of alumni members on the Associate ^ 
Board of Lay Trustees, and the Ad­\'isory Councils of the Colleges of Science and Engineering, Commerce, Law, and Arts and Letters. Alumni interest and attendance at the meet­ings of these groups have been strong factors in their progress. 
AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL This 
national organization of the alumni of-^ fices, magazines and funds of the col­
leges and universities of the U. S. and Canada has been of great help to Notre Dame since our Alumni Office was opened. Your Alumni Secretary has been a member for 35 years and has just retired as Chairman of the Great Lakes District (six Midwest States). 
Entered as Second Class matter^ October 1, 1939, at the Post Office,* Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of August 24, 1912. 






