The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
R=%sH-­
Tsim^s-'S#5:V, 
Vol. 31, No. 6—Nov.-Dec, 1953 
mds 

^^' Notre Dame umnus 
t%«  
''•fjftti  »/nin.-!  
r^J  ::ymk  
-ij  
irrtrrt  
%-^  
?<ivi5  
lif  ^ .  
m  
s"rd  
:f^m  
Notre Dame Alumni dedicate Universal Communion Sunday, December 6th, to the  
success of the forthcoming Marian Year proclaimed by His Holiness Pope Pius XII.  
wm^  

v»  i^c-ijia^s-j  m  :N^^ -^mmi)ei;§  
^?  
V- it^^ ^  i^m^rf^;rmm  
c;^ '  >^N^  
•sf^  1f^  

DIRECTORS TO 1954 
JOSEPH S. MORRISSEY, '28 . .49 Race St.. Cincinnati 2, Ohio

the J^otre"DameMumms
JOHN H. NEESOX, JR., '35.. 167 Summit Lane, Bala Cynwyd, Pa. 

VoL 31, No. 6 NOVEMBER-DECEMBER, 1953 
. James E. Armstrong, '25, Editor John N. Cacklcy, Jr., '37, Associate Editor 

This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre' Dame, Ind. Entered as second class matter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Postofiice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of .Aue. •lA, 1912. 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS 
HARVEY  G . FOSTER,  '39..;.......  Honorary  President  
JOHN  H .  NEESO.V,  JR., '35  .  :_.­ President  
JOSEPH  S. MORRISSEY,  '28  ..First  Vice-President  
LUTHER  M . SWYGERT,  '27  ;....  Second  Vice-President  
WILLIAM  C . SCHMITT,  '10  .Third  Vice-President  
JAMES  E. .ARMSTRONG,  '25  ,  Director  and  Secretary  

LUTHER M . SW^-GERT, '27..,. .. Dune Acres, Chesterton, Ind. WILLIAM C. SCHMITT, '10............2765 AMI'. Nicolai, Portland, Ore. 
DIRECTORS TO 1955 
J. RALPH CORV.X, '22.J._.._.._....; -..J>545 I3th Ajie., iMoline, III. JoH.v W. CouRT.\-EY. '25... .401 S. Highland, Dearborn, Mich. JAMES G. MCGOLDRICK, '39...:2675H. Hudson Pkwy.. New York 63 
DIRECTORS TO 1956 
DA.XIEL CULHA.NE, '23. _..;„.../30 Bradley Lane, Chevy Chase, Md. RT. REV. MSGR. J. B. TOOMEY, 26..26J E. Onondaga, Syracuse, jV. 1'. JoH.v F. SAO.NDERS. '31 .....Handschumacher & Co., 48 North St., Boston, Mass. 
DR. LEO D. O'DOXNELL, 'n.:..5121 Ellsworth Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
CHAIRiMEN OF THE 1933 COMMITTEES' 
JoH.N- H. NEESO.N, JR : Jixecutive LUTHER M . SWYGERT..... Mudget and Finance JA.MES G. MCGOLPKICK ...Foundation, Alumni Fund, Gifts JOSEPH S. MORRISSEV ..;. _ Club Activities JAMES G. MCGOLDRICK... Class Activities WILLIAM C. SCHMITT. '. : .Job Counseling and Placement JOHN W. COURT.\-EY..._. __ Religion and Citizenship JOSEPH S. MORRISSEY Preparatory School Relations WILLIAM C. SCH.MITT Inter-Alumni Association LUTHER M . SWYGERT.. Resolutions 


The Alumni Association 
University of I¥otre Dame 
Dear Men of Notre Dame: 

As you all well know, Notre Dame is dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary. . I wish to call your attention to the recent Encyclical of His Holiness Pope Pius XII in which he 
. dedicated the year December 1953 to December 1954 to observing a Marian Year in commemoration of the centenary of the proclamation of the dogma of the Immaculate Con­ception. 
Notre Dome, by its very name and stature as o Catholic University, should be the focal point of the celebration in America. It is equally true that Notre Dame men should likewise be the facets in the local programs,^ whether spon­sored by your parish or the Notre Dame Club in your area. 
702 Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Bldg. Philadelphia, Penn. 
November 15, 1953 

You con honor the Blessed Virgin and direct attention to Notre Dame by participating in such programs. 
One of the intentions for which the Pope suggested prayers should be offered to the Virgin'Mary was the spirit­ual and moral welfare of the youth, of the world and that domestic life "may be conspicuous for inviolate faithfulness, and that it may flourish through the proper and saintly education of its children." Such on intention is especially fitting for Notre Dame men. 
I urge all Clubs to exert a particular effort to arrange a noteworthy .Universal Communion Sunday program for December 6,. 1953, so that Notre Dome men everywhere will begin the Marian Year with distinction. 
Sincerely yours, JOHN H. NEESON, JR., President 


The Distinguished Prof essors Program Alumni Clubs Observe 
16ih Communion Sunday

Solicit Corporation Support For Faculty 
Corporations throughout the nation are being invited to underwrite the addition of forty-five distinguished pro­fessors to the Notre Dame faculty as a part of the new Faculty Develop­ment Fund announced by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Director of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Father Cavanaugh outlined the pro­gram during recent campus meetings 
FATHER CAVANAUGH 
of the -Alumni A.ssociation Board of Directors and the College of Com­merce Advisor}' Council. He disclosed that Notre Dame has already tested this program in certain selected cities and the response from corporation e.\ecutives has been "enthusiastic and encouraging." The plan which cor­porations are requested to sponsor will be known as the Distinguished Professors Program. 
Annual Cost of $450,000 
An annual mininmm cost of $450,­000 will be necessary to insure the­succcss of the new program. It is hoped that corporations owned or managed by alumni will be among the first to participate in this impor­tant project. Under existing laws cor­porations can take advantage of the five percent deduction provision for gifts to educational institutions. 
"The Distinguished Professors Pro­gram in no way deprecates the splen­did staff of teachers who now com­pose Notre Dame's 560-man faculty,"' Father Cavanaugh stated. "Our post­war enrollment was so sudden in its pressures that we now have a student body of 5,400—a 35 percent increase from prewar groups. In view of the nationwide teacher shortage, it has not been possible to insist upon or to secure the permanent faculty additions essential to the long-range develop­ment of the University," he said. 
Benefactors Generous to N. D. 
Forty-five outstanding professors would permit an addition to each of the University's undergraduate depart­ments. Father Cavanaugh stressed that "the University has been e.K­tremely fortunate in recent years in acquiring new buildings from gen­erous benefactors. With the largest enrollment in Notre Dame's histoiy. Father Hesburgh has urged that we. concentrate on expanding and strengthening the faculty," Father Cavanaugh continued. 
The Distinguished Professors Pro­gram, subsidized by corporation con­tributions, will only be a part of the overall plan known as the Facult}' Development Fund, All unrestricted gifts from alumni and other, friends during 1953 and 1954 will be used to provide continuing support for the present and future faculty. Unless otherwise specified gifts to this year's 11 th Annual Alumni Fund will be allocated to the Faculty Development Fund. • 
Students Pay 70 % Education Cost 
"Despite inflationar}' problems, No­tre Dame still is able to give its stu­dents their education at approximate­ly 30 percent below, tlie actual per student cost of operating the Univer­sity," Father Cavanaugh said. "This is possible because about one-fifth of the facult}' are priests of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross who receive no salar}'. It is also possible because of gifts to Notre Dame from alumni and other friends, support from govern­ment and industrial gi-ants and fel­lowships, and auxiiiar}' enterprises, in­cluding athletics," • he concluded. 
Notre Dame Alumni Clubs through­out the world will observe the 16th .Annual Universal Notre Dame Corh­munion Sunday on December 6th. This year the, dedication will be for the success of the program' of His Holiness Pope Pius XII (LLD: '36) in. estab­lishing the Ceritenar\'iYear of the Dog­ma of the Immaculate, Conception (December 8, 1953 to December 8, 1954), Alumni have been asked to devote that Sunday to Mass, Com­munion, and prayers for the Holy Father's program. : 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was originated in 1938, by the New York City club. It is considered a vital phase of the annual alumni club program and has been an out­standing event for many local clubs. 
Club obser\'ances will center around attendance at Mass and Communion breakfasts with speakers from Notre Dame or the local area. 
LUTHER M. SWYGERT, '27 
Hon. Luther M. Swyg"t> '27, Judge of the Federal Court of Northern Indiana and former football monogram man, has been named a special lecturer in the College of Law and is presiding over Moot Court sessions. Judge Swygert is Second Vice-President of the Notre Dame ,\lumni Association. 
November-December, 1953 

Mary's Alumnae Association, $4.) by 
•from your 

Marion McCandless, bright star of the 
Alumni Secretary 



Zditonial Qo4fUHe4iii 
neighboring alumnae firmament, a 
. Reading 

Only one thing bothered me about the great '28 Class Survey—the low book-reading indication. (Maybe it's just that, judging by the June Re­union, the Class is still in the age bracket for taking out the Hbrarian instead of the book.) 
In any event, 1 would like to urge all alumni to keep their intellectual claws sharpened on some book or other as the years go by. (The ALUMNUS at one time carried a delightful article on pleasant reading by Prof. Henry Staunton which, in my opinion, was a one-man one-time blueprint for adult education in attractive and practical form.) 
You don't have to join a book club. You don't have to go to die librar)'. You don't have to make a study of the lives of authors. You don't have to in­dulge in the classics. 
You can enjoy substantial and pleas­ant reading without going outside the Notre Dame family. Several Notre Dame authors have come up with new books: 
Richard SulHvan, '30, popular Notre Dame professor of English, and a fa­vorite in the clean-and-mellow set of good writing, has a new novel, 311 Congress Court (Holt, $3). In one of his favorite settings, Baysweep, his characters are a German Catholic fam­ily "who in times of jubilation and dis­tress alike turn simultaneously to alco­hol and the priest. . . ." Dick, as his fans know well, has the art of writing a book that is Catholic without being the often avoided "Catholic book." 
I mentioned last year a book, a first novel, by Vem Sneider, A.B. '40, Mon­roe, Mich., The Teahouse of the Au­gust Moon, which was an entrancing and refreshing treatment of the occu­pation of Okinawa, which was at once realistic and poedc, historic and fic­tional. Vem has just published a sec­ond novel, A Pail of Oysters (G. P. Putnam, $3.50) which is a grimmer picture of Formosa under the Nation­alist regime. Yet the book still con­tains some of the insight into the characters and distinctiveness of the people and their problems which made his first book memorable. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
VERNON J. SNEIDER, '40 

Bob Blake, anotiier A.B. '40, man, and e.\-Marine, walked away from postwar law school to answer the call of the open road that led him, without benefit of purse, from his hometown. Canton,- O., through the literarj' and historical highlights of the ancient cap­itals of Asia, Africa and the Near East. If you read Halliburton, you will enjoy Bob's /'// Take the High Road (Reg­nery, $3.75). In fact, if you just don't like to sit still in job or classroom, you can reap a rich review of literature and ancient histor\' from the Blake Odys­sey. 
Joe Breig, A.B. '28, Cleveland jour­nalist on the Universe Bulletin, a col­umnist for the Ave Maria magazine, and author of several previous books, does another powerful job of apolo­getics and lay teaching in Catholic fundamentals with his new book, A Halo For Father (Bruce, $2.50). As a father who is happy with a "hello," and despairing of a halo, Joe's picture of the ideal father is surprisingly pleas­ant and endowed with an in-reach quality. Joe's natural humor and spir­itual strength blend to put St. Joseph a little more into the daily routine. If it doesn't give you an immediate halo, it will at least give you a pleasant glow. Let your wife read it, too. The tango is not. all that requires two to. 
If your wife is a' St. Mary's girl, you have probably already read one of last year's highlights. Family Portraits (St. 
lady D'Artagnan with the pen. And if your wife isn't a St. Mar)''s girl, you'll both enjoy this personalized his­tory of the popular school across the road. For all you readers who matric­ulated at Notre Dame and majored in St. Mar)''s, it will be several evenings of enriched reading. 
Fans of Lucile Hasley, wife of the Notre Dame professor, Louis Hasley, '30, will welcome her new volume. The Mouse Hunter (Sheed & Ward, $2.75). Apostie of the literary what-comes-naturally, Lucile has done a much needed switch in modem writing by calling our daily lives to the atten­tion of the Church — on the kaleido­scope of topics that can only happen to an ordinary household where ethics create problems and money is not al­wa)"s in abundance to solve them. So, whether for you, or for Christmas presents, here are some top treats. 
—^Jim Armstrong 

College Quiz Bowl Broadcast 
On the night of Saturday, Dec. 12, four of Notre Dame's finest students will compete in a new "battle of the brains" broadcast over the entire facilities of the National Broadcasting Company. It's on intercollegiate quiz pro­gram in which leading universi­ties and colleges across the country match wits for a $500 prize. The show is called "The College Quiz Bowl." It's broad­cast on NBC Saturday night at eight o'clock, EST. 
Each week the winning team is awarded a $500 gift to be administered by the college, and the winner returns the following 
\ week to meet a new opponent. The show started Oct. 10 and Northwestern University walked away with the winner's honors three weeks in a row. 
Check your nearest NBC sta­tion for the program on Dec. 12. 

Lieutenants Herlihy and Butler Killed in Korea Business Leaders Named To Advisory Council ^ Supreme Sacrifice Made by '52 Class Men 
The*. Reverend Theodore M. Hes-

Lieutenant Robert G. Herlihy, '52, United States Marine Corps, made the supreme sacrifice, for God, Countr)' and Notre Dame. He was killed in ac­tion on July 26th in Korea — the day that the armistice was signed. 
Bob attended elcmentar)' schools in Newport, R. I., Honolulu and gradu­ated from Bulkely High School, Win­chester, Mass., in 1948. He received basic training in the Platoon Leaders Class at Parris Island and Quantico, Virginia. After getting his commission at Quantico in January, 1953, Lieuten­ant Herlihy was transferred to the Third Marine Division in Camp Pen­dleton. 
While at Notre Dame Bob partici­pated in interhall sports and received his degree in Commerce. He is sur­vived by his parents. Dr. and Mrs. John E. Herlihy, and a brother. Jack, 17 Hillside Ave., ^Vinchester, Mass. 
ROBERT G. HERLIHY, '52 

The Marines dedicated a battalion camp in Korea to Lt. Wallace S. But­ler, Jr., '52, who was killed in action on April 19. In_ the ceremony conducted by Major-General Ran­dolph McPate, commander of the First Marine Division, the general stated: 
WALLACE S. BUTLER, JR., '52 

"Lieutenant Butler proved beyond doubt that his generation still contains that hard core of high courage upon which the United States is founded. And he proved himself a good Marine." 
Bud Butler, a native of Grand Forks, N. D., prepared for his career in combat as a member of the. 
N.R.O.T.C. on campus. He died lead­ing a patrol which was evacuating cas­ualties from a raid on Chinese posi­tions. For his heroic action. Bud has been recommended posthumously for the Navy Cross, second highest U. S. military award, and the Silver Star. In one of his last letters home, he wrote, "Pray for me. Don't pray for my safety nearly as much as for the safety of my men. . .It's better to come home on one's shield than without it." 
Lt. Butler is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. S." Butler, 1506 Chestnut St., Grand Forks, N. D. 
burgh, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame, announced the appointment of eleven prominent' executives as mem­bers of hvo of the. University's Ad­visory Councils. 
Named to the. Advisory Council for Science and Engineering are W. R. Baker, vice-president in charge of elec­tronics. General Electric Coi, Syra­cuse, N. Y.; George E. StoU, vice-president and general manager, Ben­dLx Aviation Corp., South Bend, Ind.; Charles H. . Cushwa, '31 president. Commercial, Shearing and Stamping Co., Youngstown, Ohio; and Joseph Becker, research physicist. Bell Lab­oratories,- Murray; Hill, New Jersey. 
Also Walter; J. Murphy, editor. Chemical and : Engineering News, \Vashington, D.C ; John P. Kiley, president. The ^Milwaukee Road, Chi­cago, 111.; and R. S. Lynch, president, Atlantic Steel Co., Atlanta,. Ga. 
Newly appointed members of the Advisory Council for the College of Commerce include Clyde E. Brous­sard, '13, president; Beaumont Rice Mills, Beaumont, Texas; Jerome J. Crowley, '31, president, the O'Brien Corporation, South Bend, Ind.; Rob­ert Sargent Shriver, Jr., the Mer­chandise Mart, Chicago, 111.; and C. 
R. Smith, president, American Air­lines, New York,.N.Y. 
The two groups meet on the cam­pus semi-annually .to consult with the University administration and the Deans and faculty members of the respective colleges. 

McCartiiy Appointed To Senate Banking Group 
Dean James E. McCarthy of Notre Dame's College of Commerce has been appointed an advisor to the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency by Senator Homer Capehart of Ind­iana, committee chairman. The Notre Dame educator will be a member of an advisory group which %vill assist the Senate committee in a recently author­ized study of the operations of the Export-Import Bank and the Inter­national Bank for Reconstruction and Development ­
November-December, 1953 

western Germany, Austria and Sivitz­



imtimversi^j 
Lecture Series in Commerce 
John T. Kirby, vice-president of 
W. R. Grace and Company until his retirement in 1952, gave a series of seven lectures recently in Notre Dame's College of Commerce. A rep­resentative of the Grace organization in Latin America" for twenty years, Kirby discussed foreign trade with em­phasis on United States commerce with South American nations. 
Dean James E. McCarthy has an­nounced that Kirby is the first in a series of guest lecturers who \vill speak at Notre Dame under the auspices of the University's College of Commerce Advisory Council. The Council is compose d of thirty-t»vo prominent business and industrial leaders from coast-to-coast. 
ND Receives Lilly Fellowship 
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapo­lis pharmaceutical house, has estab­lished a post-doctoral research fellow­ship in Notre Dame's department of chemistrj' for the coming year, accord­ing to the Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C, Dean of the University Gradu­ate School. The Lilly fellowship pro­vides funds for research on "New Ap­proaches to the Synthesis of Folic Acid." The research will be conducted by T. L. V. Ulbricht of Bristol, Eng­land, under the direction of Dr. Charles C. Price of Notre Dame's chemistr\- department. 
Prof Writes New Book 
The theory of history expounded by Giambattista Vico, eighteenth-century Italian philosopher, is pre­sented ip Time and Idea, a new book by Professor A. Robert Caponigri of Notre Dame's department of philoso­phy. The book was published on August 24th by Henry Regnery Com­pany, Chicago. It was also released in England by Routledge and Kegan Paul, Ltd., of London, in mid-Septem­ber. 

^' * ii>(mj 
Priest on Dacca U. Faculty 
.A. Catholic priest, educated at the University of Notre Dame, recently joined the faculty of a Mohammedan university in Pakistan. The Reverend Richard W. Timm, C.S.C, a native of Michigan City. Ind., is currently teaching biolog\- and cataloging bio­logical specimens at Dacca University, a predominantly Mohammedan insti­tution operated by the Pakistan gov­ernment. 
Father Timm's work at Dacca Uni­versity was made possible by a Ful­bright fellowship which he received this Fall. Dacca Univereity officials had requested that an .•\merican be a.ssigned to the post. .'\n American with just the right qualifications wa.s the head of the science department at nearby St. Gregory's College in Dacca. The Holy Cross Fathers, who have en­gaged in missionary' work in the area for more than a centur\', agreed to loan Father Timm to the Mohamme­dan university on a part-time basis. 
While Father Timm is believed to be the first priest to teach at a Mo­hammedan university, he certainly is no stranger to the Pakistan students. Many Mohammedans are enrolled at St. Gregor)''s College and other schools where priests. Brothers and Sisters of the Congregation of Holy Cross serve as American "ambassadors" and dis­ciples of Christianitv more than 5,000 miles from home. 
Gurian Lectures in Europe 
"General satisfaction with continu­ing and growing economic prosperity as well as fear of the vague, indefinite program of the Socialists prompted the overwhelming vote of confidence delivered to Chancellor Adenauer and the Christian Democrats in the recent German elections," Dr. Waldemar Gurian declared recently. 
Gurian, who is professor of political science at the University, recently re­turned from Europe where he lectured at several universities and spoke at American Information Centers in erland. 
Unification of Germany continues 
to be Chancellor Adenauer's goal, but 
Dr. Gurian sees little possibility of this 
happening. "Russia will not .permit 
free elections in East Germany for the 
Communists realize it would mean ab­
solute defeat. Of course, without free 
elections unification is impossible," 
Gurian emphasized. 
New Fine Arts-Teacher 
\ former fighting Marine whose fire-group led the patrol that planted the American flag atop Mount Suri­bachi on Iwo Jima has joined the fac­ulty of Notre Dame's art department. Robert A. Leader, who witnessed the memorable \Vorld War 11 event but who does not appear in the historic photo, will lecture on the history of art and teach drawing and painting at the University. 

Leader was just beneath the summit sealing off caves where Japanese snip­ers were entrenched when Associated Press cameraman Joe Rosenthal took perhaps the most dramatic photograph of the war. Leader recalls that the "flag pole" was a piece of zinc pipe which the Japanese had used to catch rain water on the arid island. The flag, he said, was sent up from an LST on the nearby beach. 
"Within a few minutes after the summit was secured," Leader relates, "a Father Suva, a Marine chaplain, celebrated Mass and distributed Holy Communion to Marines knee-deep in nibble. Very few people realize," he said "that the Blessed Sacrament rested atop Mount Suribachi' almost simul­taneously with the American flag." 
Swedish Scientist on Campus 
Dr. Lars Melander of Stockholm's Nobel Institute has presented a month's series of lectures at Nieuw­land Science Hall on. the University campus. The noted Swedish scientist, who has specialized in the use of iso­topes as tracers in studying the mech­anism of organic reactions, spoke on 
the general subject of "The Use of Nuclides in the Investigation of Or­ganic Chemical Reaction Mechan­isms." Dr. Melander was here under the auspices of the P. C. Reilly Chem­istry Lecture Series, established by the late P. C. Reilly, Indianapolis indus­trialist and former member of Notre Dame's Associate Board of Lay Trus­tees. 
Industries Give Fellowships 
Three national industrial concerns 
have awarded fellowships to graduate 
scientists in Notre Dame's chemistr\­
department, it was announced recent­
ly by the Rev. Paul E. Beichner, 
C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School. 
The Sinclair Refining Company has renewed its support of a research pro­gram in which Hcnrj- L. VVeisbecker, Pittsburgh, Pa., will study the reaction of excited hydrocarbon molecules. 
The Monsanto Chemical Company is sponsoring research in the radiation chemistr)' and electrical discharge re­actions of ethane. James Sturm, New Ulm, Minn., has received the Mon­santo fellowship. 
Olin Industries has made a fellow­ship available to M. P. Reddy, whose home is in India, for research in the radiation chemistr)' and electrical dis­charge reactions of ethylene. 
Vocations for German Youths 
A former member of Hitler's Youth Corp is among forty-five new seminar­ians of college age studying for the priesthood at the University. Hans Rulke, who was subjected to four-and­a-half years of Nazi philosophy and military discipline, has commenced nine years of study and prayer which will lead to his ordination as a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
The nventy-one-year-old native of Witten-Ruhr in west Germany was ac­companied to this country by another German youth, Hubert Schwan, whose father was a Russian prisoner in Si­beria for three years. The two young men decided to pursue their religious vocations at Notre Dame after meet­ing several Holy Cross priests in Rome. They are living on the campus at the Old College, one of the first buildings erected here more than a century ago. 
Father O'Brien's New Pamphlet 
A new pamphlet. How You Can Share Your Faith, showing how laymen can both recruit prospects for instruc­tion and win converts to Catholicism, has just been published by The Cate­chetical Guild, St. Paul, Minn. Written by the Reverend John A. O'Brien of the University of Notre Dame, a noted leader of the convert movement in .-America, the pamphlet features the stories of twenty convert makers in widely different walks of life. 
"Diplomacy in a Whirlpool" 
A nation's bitter struggle for sur­vival under two totalitarian masters is documented in Diplomacy in a Whirl­pool, a new book by Stephen D. Ker­tesz, a former Hungarian Minister to Italy and now professor of political science at the University. Dr. Ker­tesz's book, published by the Univer­sity of Notre Dame Press, dramatically presents the tragedy of Hungary plunged in the dark shadow of the Swastika and the Red Star. It is the eighth in a scries of studies sponspred by Notre Dame's Committee on Inter­national Relations. 
Dooley Attends Conference 
William R. Dooley, '26, placement director at the University, was one of twenty-five colleg e representatives from coast-to-coast who attended a Conference of College Placement Offi­cers at Schenectady, N. Y., under the 
sponsorship of the General Electric 
Company. 

The conference considered many as­pects of college placement including the placement of veterans, helping old­er alumni to find jobs, counselling and guidance of students, recruiting ethics and the proper use of placement facili­ties. Also on the agenda was a discus­sion of financial support for education by business and industry. 
Brother Sabinus Writes Book 
The Maid of Corinaldo, a story of Saint Maria Goretti, an Italian girl who died in 1902 while defending her virtue, was publbhed recently by the Dujarie Press. The simple story of the peasant maid who was canonized in 1930 by Pope Pius XII was written by Brother Sabinus Herbert, C.S.C. 
The book is the latest in a series of juvenile works, principally lives of the saints, to be published by the Dujarie Press. The books have been written by various Brothers of Holy Cross under the direction of Brother Ernest Ryan, C.S.C., who is the author of more than forty titles for children, widely Used in schoob throughout the country. 
Brother Sabinus, author of The Maid of Corinaldo, is both a' writer and a printer. He is superintendent of printing at the Ave Maria Press on the Notre Dame campus and has lec­tured before trade groups. He wrote a syndicated article, "Will Irish Himior Too Decline?", and is a mem­ber of the Catholic Press Association. , 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., is installed as Honorary Chief of the Kiowa Tribe at the Notre Dame Rally in Municipal Auditorium, Oklahoma City, on Sept. 23 — eve of Sooner-Irish clash. At right is Chief of the Kiowas. 
November-December, 1953 


1928 CLASS SURVEY 
Religious Influence at N. D. Reflected in Report 
By LOUIS F. BUCKLEY 
One of the many innovations intro­duced by the Class of 1928 on the oc­casion of its twent)'-fifth year reunion was a report entitled "The Life and Opinions of the Notre Dame Class of 1928." The survey was based on 225 questionnaires (of a total of 502 sent out) and summarized replies to 101 questions. The magazine, America, commented that "the results of the sur­vey do great credit to a great Catholic universit)'." 
A book published last year. They Wejit to College by Ernest Haveman and Patricia West, based on a survey made by Time magazine in 1947 of a national sample of college graduates is used for comparative purposes throughout this report. 
Religious and Family Life 
The religious influence at Notre Dame was emphasized by the 1928 men as Notre Dame's most important contribution to their lives. Twelve percent of the class report they are daily communicants and 24% receive Holy Communion weekly. Almost half of the families of '28 men say the ros­ary together and 14% of the families have daily family rosar)'. More than half the class are active in parish af­fairs. The importance attached to reli­gion by the class was reflected in the following '28 class events during the 25th reunion week-end: a class visit to the grotto, memorial services at the community cemetery, well-attended Class Masses each morning, with '28 glee club participation. 

In They Went to College, authors Haveman and West set up a threefold criterion of matrimonial stability. This test required that the college graduates still be living vnth the girls they mar­ried, that they have at least three chil­dren, and that they own their homes. Forty-two percent of the '28 men meet these exacting requirements as com­
* The Notre Dame Alumnus 
pared with 25% of the college men in the same age group in the Time sur\'ey. Surprisingly, 82% of the 1928 gradu­ates own their homes in contrast to 68% of college graduates generally of a comparable age. 
Slightly over half (53%) of us mar­ried girls who had attended college. Twenty-five percent of our wives achieved a bachelor's degree. A recent study of Cornell graduates indicated that 41% of the men married college graduates. Ninety-five percent of the wives of the Catholic members of the class are also Catholics. 
The Population Reference Bureau reports that the Notre Dame Class of 1928 had the highest birth rate of any of the Alumni of colleges surveyed with a graduating class of over 100 members in 1928. Our rate is 2.59 children per alumnus compared with an average of 1.97 of all 1928 classes sur\'eyed. We average 2.76 children per married alumnus, while the aver­age for 1928 classes generally is 2.10. 
The importance attached to the family by '28 men was also reflected in the collection of pictures of the '28 men and their families which was dis­played at the reunion. The class ex­pects to publish this collection of family pictures. 
Our Jobs and Economic Status 
The '28 men as a whole tend to oc­cupy jobs of greater importance and prestige than college graduates gener­ally. Fort>'-sLx percent of the class of '28 are proprietors, managers and ex­ecutives as compared with 33%, 34% and 26% respectively for the Jews, Protestants and Catholics in the Time cross-section of all American male college graduates. Only 10% of the '28 group are white collar arid manual workers in contrast to 16%, 20% and 29% respectively for the Jews, Protes­tants and Catholics in the Time study. The median annual earned income for the 1928 Notre Dame graduate is 
§10,000 compared unth §6152 for all college men in our age group in the Time study made in 1947. These contrasts are of particular interest, since the Haveman and West study concluded that "Catholics, by and large, wind up in poorer jobs and make the least money." 
The lowest earned income' in the class was §2800 and the highest, §60,000. The largest median earned incomes were in law (§15,000) and 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, '28 
medicine (§12,000) and the lowest in education (§6,000) and government (§6,000). In addition, three out of every five classmates receive unearned incomes ranging from less than §100 for seven and from §25,000 to §50,000 for six classmates. 
The Uses of Leisure , 
One out of three members of the class list outdoor sports and one of four give reading as the favorite way of spending their spare time. Since one-third oL those who consider read­ing a favorite pastime had not read any books during the few months prior to the survey, it is evident that maga­zine reading is much more popular. The group reads regularly an average of 3.2 magazines compared with 2.79 
in the Titne survey. The three most 
popular magazines are Readers Digest 
(37%), The Saturday Evening Post 
(32%) and Time (29%). Over half 
of the class (54%) indicated they had 
not read a book in the past few months 
compared to only 20% of the Time 
sample. 
Notre Dame 
An ovenvhelming vote of confidence was given Notre Dame by the class in that 96% of us indicated we would attend Notre Dame if we had it to do over again in contrast to 84% who stated they would choose their alma mater in the Time study. Seventy per­cent of those with a son anticipate that he will attend Notre Dame. The main reasons given by most of those who answered in the negative or as unde­cided were (a) finances, (b) leave choice to son, (c) smaller college pre­ferred and (d) grades and aptitude of son. 
In addition to a valuable religioiK influence, the class considered Notre Dame's best contributions were-a source of friendship and a good edu­cation. The most common complaints about Notre Dame of our college days in the order of importance are (1) lack of vocational guidance, (2) na­ture and extent of discipline, (3) too much leisure, and (4) too little social life. 
Among the things the class likes best about Notre Dame of today are 
(1)
 the raising of academic stand­ards, (2) developments in scientific research, (3) the building program, 

(4)
 public relations program, and (5) the expansion of the graduate school. Concern was expressed by a number of classmates over the increase in size of Notre Dame. 


The study revealed the great inter­est of the class in the ALUMNUS, Nine­ty-four percent of us read it regularly and about half of our wives do like­wise. The importance of the ALUM­NUS as a media for keeping in touch vntb. classmates was emphasized in that over half indicated they turn to class notes first. Typical of the com­ments made concerning the ALUMNUS is the following by a \vriter, "I think it is an exceptionally good job as it stands." A Ia\\7er stated, "Believe it is now a fine, well-edited magazine." 
Vote for Eisenhower 
Although two-thirds of our parents 
considered themselves to be Demo-' 
crats, 37% of us classify ourselves as 
Democrats, 32% as Republicans and 
30% as Independents. The Time na­
tional survey reveals by contrast that 
graduates generally are 38% Republi­
cans, 23% Democrats and 38% Inde­
pendents. Two out of every three 
members of the class voted for Presi­
dent Eisenhower. The class indicated 
they were most nearly in agreement 
with the policies of Eisenhower (43%), 
Stevenson (29%), and Taft (22%). 
The class was asked to indicate whether they liked or disliked certain personalities. Among those liked by two-thirds of the class are: President Eisenhower, Cardinal Spellman, Sec­retary of State Dulles, former Gover­nor Adlai Stevenson and former President Hoover. Those who proved to be the least popular among the '28 men were John L. Lewis, Dean Ache­son and Eleanor Roosevelt. 
Views on Current Issues 
There is coruiderable agreement (72%) on the advisability of contin­uing the present reciprocal trade poli­cy. Over half (51%) of the class be­lieve that future economic aid to Eu­rope should be decreased. However, 55% favor additional American ex­penditures under the Point IV pro­gram. 
Only half of the class feel that the participation of the United States in the United Nations has been worth­while. Fifty-seven percent believe the United Nations should have the right to make conclusions which would bind members to a course of action in con­trast to 78% of the graduates in the Time survey. 
Three-fourths of the class believe that organization of workers into labor imions is a right and a necessit)'. A similar percent of the class favor amendments to the Taft-Hartley Act. 
Approximately three out of five classmates oppose more federally sub­sidized public housing. Over half of the class (a) favor a constitutional amendment placing a limit on federal taxes to a fbced percent of personal in­comes and (b) oppose continuance or increase of price supports to farmers. 
Space does not permit a discussion of other aspects of the survey, such as 
extracurricular activities, religious life, jobs and major subjects while attend­ing Notre Dame, relationship between college grades and earned income to­day, graduate work, unemployment, attitude toward present jobs, life in­surance, entertairmient, social, civic and political activities and additional views on foreign and domestic issues and personalities. Data are available in the survey on subjects varying from the amount of time we spend with our children, the e.xtent of drinking, and how often one takes his wife out to diimer to such serious subjects as the books recently read and attitudes on the Luther-Hobbes-Paine theory of government. 

Seven Depart For Pakistan Missions 
Seven Holy Cross niissionaries, prior to leaving for far-off Pakistan, participated in an impressive departiure ceremony in Sacred Heart Church on the University of Notre Dame campus. Four priests, a Brother and two Sisters of the Congregation of Holy Cross re­newed their foreign nussion vows before the Very Rev. Christopher J. O'Toole, C.S.C., Superior General. The sermon was given by the Rev. Vincent J. McCauley, C.S.C., who spent many years in the foreign mis­sions. 
The missionaries left for Dacca in Bengal, East Pakistan, where the Con­gregation of Holy Cross, this year ob­serves its centennial of missionary work among the natives. They will arrive in Pakistan in mid-November to join eighty-nine Holy Cross priests. Broth­ers and Sisters who staff the Dacca 
DATES TO REMEMBER IN 
1953-54 
Universal Communion Sunday, Dec. 6,1953 Universal Notre Dame Night, April 26, 1954 Commencement, June 6, 1954 Class Reunions, June 11-12-13, 1954 

Seventeen Former Lay Students Enter C.S.C. 
ROGER KILEY, '23 

The Hon. Roger Kilcy, Judge of the Appel­late Court of Illinois and a former All-Amcrican football player at Notre Danic, will serve as lecturer in the College of Law this school year. 
Cuneo Loans Painting To Notre Dame Galleries 
A valuable 13th centur>' painting, recently identified as the work of Guido da Siena, has been loaned to the University of Notre Dame gal­leries by John F. Cuneo, prominent Chicago art collector and president of Cuneo Press, Incorporated. 
"Virgin and Child Enthroned," be­lieved to be the earliest Italian primi­tive painting in America, was recent­ly purchased by Cuneo from an inte­rior decorator for a modest sum. Sub­sequently, the painting was identified by Dr. Maurice Goldblatt, art author­ity and director of the Notre Dame galleries, as an authentic work of Guido, founder of the Sienese school. Goldblatt estimated the value of the painting at §250,000. 
According to Goldblatt, only two other examples of Guido's work exist in the United States and neither is as important as the Cuneo painting as a milestone in early Italian art. The Sienese school in Guido antedates the Florentine and thus can be credited as the first group to rew'e Italian painting after the Byzantine. 
10 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Seventeen former lay students of the Universit)' have recently begun their studies on the way to the priest­hood in the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Charies H. O'Brien, C.S.C, Green Bay, Wis., Nicholas R. Ayo, C.S.C, Elizabeth, N. J., and James D. Wing, C.S.C, Evanston, 111., pronounced their temporar)' vows at the close of a year spent in Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn. Together with 18 other seminarians, these young men have re­turned to Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame where they will resume their philosophical and other university studies. 
Daniel M. Boland, C.S.C, Hazel-crest, 111., Aidan R. Cough, C.S.C, La Canada, Calif., Hugh R. Shine, C.S.C, Goldsboro, N. C , Dennis A. Gibson, CS.C, Rochester, N. Y., Robert L. Mullen, C.S.C, Tampa, Fla., Joseph 
F. O'Donnell, C.S.C, Chicago, 111., entered the Jordan Novitiate to begin a year's intensive spiritual preparation for the religious life. They will make their first vows next August. 
Joseph F. Belfiore, Jr., Washington, 

D. C , John P. Bozzone, Sauquoit, 
N. Y., William B. Hund,'St. Joseph, Mo., Donald F. Guertin, Upland, Calif., Joseph B. Simons, Pasadena, Calif., John F. O'Connell, Chicago, 111., Paul D. Gabler, Chicago, re­turned to Notre Dame after the sum­mer vacation to enter "Old College," the 112-year-old first building on the campus. This historic structure is headquarters for 44 young men (in­cluding the 7 from Notre Dame) who are preparing for the priesthood in the University's new program for college candidates. While living very much as do ordinary Notre Dame students, these seminarians-to-be will specialize in Latin and Philosophy. Their spir­itual life will center around the Log Chapel where Mass, Holy Commun­ion, meditation, rosary, spiritual read­ing, a monthly retreat and nocturnal adoration before each First Friday %vill help lay the foundation for their fu­ture lives as priests of Holy Cross. 
The 44 candidates come from 17 states, the District of Columbia, and one foreign country. They range in age from 16 to 30. In addition to the 7 from Notre Dame, there are students from the following Universities: De­troit, Portland, Michigan, Marquette, Kansas, Minnesota, Catholic Univer­sity, Washington State, AVestem Mich­igan, and Santa Clara. The remainder are graduates of high schools from Massachusetts to California. A dozen are veterans of either World War II or of the Korean War. 
In addition to these fonner Notre Dame students and other seminarians of college age, the high school depart­ment of Holy Cross Seminary on the University campus enrolled 66 new candidates, 47 of whom are in first year. Seventeen states are represented, with Illinois boasting the largest con­tingent, nineteen. 
The total enrollment in high school in Holy Cross Seminar)' is 135. There are two Negro students (from Indian­apolis) and one American Indian (from Milwaukee). 

Honor Students Receive New Class Privileges 
More than 475 Notre Dame honor students may be absent from class an unlimited number of times, according to a new University regulation an­nounced by the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, vice-president in charge of academic affairs. 
Undergraduates named on the Dean's Honor List as having aca­demic averages of 88 percent or better may skip class without penalty, but will be held personally responsible for any class work or tests missed by be­ing absent, Father Moore explained. 
This policy of non-compulsory at­tendance at class has always pertained in the University's Graduate School and is now being axtended to under­graduate honor students and to stu­dents in the College of Law. Until now, students lost credit for a course if they were absent more times than the number of semester hours credit given for the class. In effect, students forfeited credit for a course if they were absent, except when sick, more than three times in a semester. 
"Our experience has shown that the good student, who is not under com­pulsion to go to class, never misses except for very serious reasons," Fa­ther Moore said. "We feel that the time has come for students to assume personal responsibihty for their edu­cation. 



Alumni Clubs To Resume Job Help 
Recognizing especially emplojonent needs of an increasing number of alumni who are being discharged from the Armed Forces, the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association at its meeting at Notre Dame on October 23 recommended the reactivation, where necessary, of the placement function of the local clubs. 
The Placement Bureau on the campus, directed by William R. Doo­ley, '26, will coordinate the club work in this regard. 
Employment aid for alumni will, it is anticipated, soon be made available through special committees in at least a dozen of the countr)''s largest cen­ters of alumni population. In the smaller clubs, this aid will, for the present, be channeled through the club presidents, a listing of whom is found in each issue of the ALUMNUS. If and when placement committees are deemed necessary in some of the small­er clubs, they will be set up. 
Some Centers Already Functioning 
The three largest centers of alumni population. New York City, Chicago and South Bend, are already served by functioning placement services for alumni. The Notre Dame Club of New York maintains a "Job Registrj'" directed by Frank Conforti, '43, of The Tuition Plan, 3347 Fifth Ave., New York Cit>', where job seekers can register and receive aid. In conjunc­don with the "Job Registry," the New York Club also operates, in coopera­tion with the Carroll Club, a Career Planning Clinic, directed by Edward Beckman, '16. The Clinic meets each Thursday at 7 P. M. in the Carroll Club, 120 Madison Ave., New York Cit)', except during July and August and holiday seasons. No reservation is needed at the Clinic; beginners are instructed each week. Attendance is open to all interested persons, Notre Dame and non-Notre Dame, men and women. 
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago operates its placemen t activities through a Counseling Committee of 30 members directed by James R. Martin, '23. Each committee member represents a different field of work. 
Pictured at a reception in the home of William J. Dunn, M.D., '47, honoring the visit of Dean L. H. Baldinger, are Notre Dame men currently in specialized training at the Mayo Cljoic. Seated (L. to R.): Dean Baldinger, Rev. Daniel Kennerk, C.S.C., Dr. Wm. 
J. Dunn, '47, Dr. Ed Morgan, '44. Standing are Dr. Ed J. Sanders, '47, Dr. Wm. B. 
Hehne, '33, Dr. Richard Myers, '47, Dr. James F. Cooney, '42, and Dr. Oliver Vreeland, '42. 
Chicago alumni needing employment assistance are invited to register \vith the Notre Dame Club of Chicago of­fice. Suite 649, 38 South Dearborn St., Chicago. From that point they will be referred to one of the mem­bers of the Counseling Committee for appropriate aid. 
Alumni in the South Bend area are 

ser\'ed directly through the Placement 
Bureau on the campus and are invited 
to reanster there. 
To be Coordinated with Campus Bureau 
Club work in placement will in­creasingly be coordinated with the work of the Placement Bureau at No­tre Dame, according to Mr. Dooley. "We in the Placement Bureau on the campus want to help alumni as well as students," Mr. Dooley said, "but be­cause most alumni reside a consider­able distance from the campus and usually want to work in their home area, we usually find it difficult, and frequently impossible, to give them any direct job aid. We can't function, for the most part, as a national em­ployment agency, bringing the job opening and the job seeker together; 
we can—and do—function as a coun­seling agency, advising the job seeker how to help himself, with the aid of his local Notre Dame Club." 
Must Be Prepared For Interview 
Pending the enlargement of the club placement program and a more de­tailed announcement in the next issue of the ALUMNUS, alumni job seekers are asked to communicate with the Placement Bureau at Notre Dame, with their club president or with the Notre Dame Club office in Chicago or Frank Conforti in New York. 
Alumni are reminded in this con­nection that an interview is a must in practically every job-getting procedure and that job-getting by mail only is virtually impossible. Alumni who- are seeking employment in a distant part of the country should be prepared to travel there for job interviews. That is the uniform advice offered by Notre Dame clubs, especially on the Pacific Coast. They are entirely willing to help the Notre Dame job seeker but they need his presence for any inter­vieivs that can be arranged. 
November-Dtcember, 1953 

Governor Joe Farrell of the Notre Dame Foundation 
Successfully Directs Program in Pennsylvania 
To most everyone the state of Penn­sylvania is famed for its natural re­sourcesj thriving agriculture and heavy industries among other things. And in­cluded in the category of "among other things" are the prodigious efforts put forth by Joseph R. Farrell, '15, in guid­ing Foundation destinies of the Key­stone area. As Governor of the Notre Dame Foundation for Pennsylvania, Joe hjis done practically a one-man job, until last year, of stimulating partici­pation in the annual alumni funds. The results are evident, encouraging for other states—^it points the way that "it is being done." 

Fifty percent of the alumni in Penn­sylv«uiia contributed to the University of Notre Dame in 1952. AVith some monetary assistance from various sec­tions, this record may be excelled in 1953. But the success of the program there hasn't been Ns-ithout the usual de­tailed planning, organizing, and plain hard work which go into any successful venture—although Mr. Farrell would be the last to admit it's even remotely successful. 
Each alumni club and all Founda­tion area chairmen in the state have received at least one visit from Gover­nor Joe—^in most instances he has been around the circuit twice and in some places three times. Often members of the campus staff have accompanied him. This past Summer John Necson, president of the Alumni Association, and Alumiu Secretary Jim Armstrong told the "Notre Dame story" along with Joe Farrell. For two consecutive years, the Governor and John Cackley have teamed on a 'get-acquainted tour* of alumni cities. 
Joe has organized and re-organized— and even re-re-organized—Peimsylvania on a Foundation level so that the best possible results \vill be attained. His training for the past 38 years as a member of the General Electric Company has undoubtedly been a tremendous asset in getting things done for Notre Dame. EUs files bulge with copies of communiques to his state chairmen and club presidents in direct­ing their efforts toward a common ob­jective — doing the finest job possible for Notre Dame. The campus office attests to the statement that the Gover­nor is eager to 'get on with the work.' 
JOSEPH R. FARRELL, '15 

He is quick to offer constructive sug­gestions for the over-all program's bet­terment. 
One of Farrell's most productive theories — which he has put into productive practice — is the use of the pledge card. In factj he helped design this year's 'model' which went out na­tionally to non-contributing alimmi in a Fund mailing piece last month. Joe's contention is that giving to Notre Dame on a monthly pledge basis — $10, $5, $1 or whatever it may be — can be as habitual as paying the telephone bill. 
He ^vas instrumental in recommend­ing that special recognition be given those alumni who had contributed to ten of the annual alumiu funds. More than 40 Notre Dame men in Peimsylvania merited this honor last year. They have given a total of $40,000 over the past decade. 
In recent months he has divided the state into five districts with a 'District Governor' responsible for each. Farrell's Foundation target in 1953 is to get a minimum of 60% alimini participation for this year's 11th Annual Alumni Fund. With his ingenuity plus enthu­siasm that figure isn't a remote possi­bility— Pennsylvania should probably surpass it. 
Joe's initial capacity in the Founda­tion program was City Chairman of Harrisburg, his home to\vn. After the untimely death' of John McMahon, then governor of the state, there ^vas only one real, logical choice for the position — and that was Joseph R. Farrell. He was appointed by Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., at that time president of Notre Dame, to as­sume a leading part in the Foundation's long-range program to get $25,000,000 over a ten-year period. 
•'Don't let a year go by wthout send­ing Notre Dame something" has been the governor's slogan to bis 'constitu­ents.' Participation is the keynote to a successful alumni fund campaign. In 1952 the Notre Dame men of Pennsyl­vania, excluding $100-an-up-givers, contributed an average gift of $12.50. This is a considerable increase from the old $5 "dues paying days." 
One of Mr. Farrell's greatest assets as governor of the Foundation is his own personal conviction that the pro­gram is of paramount importance and his unlimited enthusiasm to make it work. In Joe's way of thinking, and also the University's, contributions made by the alumni are actually repay­ments to Notre Dame for a 'debt' in­curred as students whether they be in the Class of '15 or '53. It costs the University a substantial sum to educate each student and statistics show that the student actually only pays about 70% of the amount necessary to turn him out as an alumnus. Joe says, "When we asked for help — and it took on many forms—^Notre Dame gave it to us. Now that she needs help it's only 
right for us to do what we can to help her." 
Mr. Farrell resides in a pleasant sub­urban section of Harrisburg, known as Camp Hill, with his charming wife and three daughters. 
The editor of the 1915 Dome wrote: "Here we have a most likable and en­terprising representative of Macedon, 
N. Y. He delights to tell of his home town and always stands Vrnt as a prom­inent part of it." That capsule sketch of Joe Farrell was prophetic. The pri­mary difference now is, instead of de­scribing the virtues of Macedon, Joe waves the banner for Notre Dame. 
—/. A^. C. 
Scholarships for Superior Students 
Superior scholastic performance, high character, welfare of the Univer­sity, promise of leadership and finan­cial need are the principal determi­nants in the awarding of scholarships to the University of Notre Dame. In addition to scholarships, there are available part-time employment and loans from the Student Aid program. 
Scholarships in particular have been the means to an educational end for many successful Notre Dame men in business, industry and the professions. Material help from scholarships have often been the difference whether or not a worthy and deserving student continued his scholastic career. 

Our Lady's University has various forms of scholarships which usually fall in three separate categories: Regional, Restricted and General. Notre Dame has been blessed with interested and sincere benefactors who have generous­ly provided help for more than 100 students annually—regardless of race or creed. Endowed scholarships re­cently have totaled $955,000 while the amount available yearly from earned income of this total equals $60,000. 
Scholarship grants to students usu­ally range from $200 to $1,000. There are strict requirements for the scholar­ship holder at Notre Dame. He must maintain an 85 percent academic av­erage, adhere to disciplinary regula­tions and meet any other stipulations which are pertinent to the particular scholarship. The late Mr. Augustus F. Meehan of Chattanooga, Tenn., left a 
The Fort Smith (Ark.) Alumni Club sponsored a trip to the Oklahoma game for forty-five alumni and other friends. 
bequest which is being used for com­petitive scholarships, awarded to young men from the states of Alabama, Geor­gia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia. This is the regional type of scholarship. Each year sLx students re­ceive $1,000 apiece and it is possible for the student to enjoy the privileges of a Meehan Scholarship for four years of college. 
Other regional scholarships include those sponsored by: Mr. and Mrs. E. 
M. Rowley, San Antonio, Texas, in memory of their deceased son Ed\vin Graves Rowley, Class of 1926; the Matthew J. Carney Memorial Schol­arship founded in 1929 by the late Mr. Carney; and the Pangbom Scholar­ships which were established by Messrs. 
Thomas W. and John C. Pangbom of Hagerstown, Md., in 1949. 
Incoming freshmen may compete for the Rev. James A. Bums Memorial Scholarship, named in honor of the late Rev. Thomas Carroll, Oil City, Pa., who also contributed funds for a restricted scholarship. It is rejuired that the applicant be studying for the priesthood and be originally from Oil City, Pa., or that diocese. Mr. 
O. J. Caron, president of the Caron Spinning Company, Rochelle, 111., founded the O. J. Caron Scholarship for superior students in the Depart­ment of Chemical and/or Mechanical Engineering. The Father Michael J. 
(continued on next page) 

Howard D. Johnson, President and Treasurer of the Howard D. Johnson nation-wide restaurant chain, shotvn with John T. Burke, '29, President of the Notre Dame Club of Boston, and Frederick S. Bailey, General Manager of Station WTAO-TV, Boston, signing a contract to televise Notre Dame football games over WTAO-TV every Sunday night. 
November-December, 1953 
Scholarships 
(continued from page 13) 

Shea Memorial Scholai-ship, in honor 
of the late Father Shea, was estab­
lished by Mr. and Mrs. John L. 
Harrigan, Hollywood, Calif. Notre 
Dame's famous "Victory March" was 
\vritten by Father Shea and his 
brother John F. Shea. The scholar­
ship is restricted to a deserving stu­
dent, in the College of Engineering 
at the discretion of the president of 
the University. 
Notre Dame Alimmi Clubs through­out the nation have been generous contributors to the scholarship fund. The Akron, Ohio, Club helps two boys, each with §250 a semester, for four years. Cleveland alumni are aid­ing tvvo boj-s this year with $125 per semester while the Indianapolis Club is assisting t\vo students with semester awards of $240. 
Although most alumni clubs give several small amount scholarships to various students, some, like the Den­ver organization, present a substantial award of $700 to one person each year. The regional scholarships spon­sored by the aliuhni clubs have been of immeasurable assistance to this over-all project and help immensely to stimulate interest in the Universit)'. At the present time, 19 alumni clubs are subsidizing their OUTI individual scholarship program at Notre Dame. 
Grants from the General Scholar­ship Fund are based on the certified financial need of students who have a high scholastic average. In 1917 the Catholic Order of Foresters estab­lished a scholarship in the form of a memorial to John J. Lauth, a former professor at the University of Notre Dame. The late Mr. Ed>vard Nash Hurley, Chicago, 111., founded schol­arships which bear his name and which, to be eligible, the student must be earning, through his own ef­forts, at least half of his University expenses. 
Seven winners of Ford Scholarships, sponsored by the Ford Motor Com­pany for sons of their employees, have selected Notre Dame for their higher education. The Ford Motor Company contributes $500 to the University for each scholarship holder. The addi­tional $500 is an aid to the Univer­sity in helping it to bridge the gap betiveen what the student pays and what it actually costs the University to educate him. —John Cackley 
The Alumn! Scr^-icc Booth, in use for the first time this football season, is located just outside Gate 5 at the Notre Dame Stadium. Staffed by members of the Generation Club—campus organization composed of students whose fathers were alumni—the Booth has been a center for Notre Dame men meeting their classmates and other alumni. This facility was provided by the Alumni Office. 
THE ALUMNI PROGRAM 
In the rapid passing of time, we often lose sight of fundamentals. The Survey of Recent Graduates just compiled criticized the Alumni Association for not making its "program" better known. We have avoided technical definitions of a program, but for the record, here it is: 
1. To keep Notre Dame alive in the hearts of its alumni 
— the Spiritual! 

2. To keep Notre Dame alive in the minds of its alumni 
— the Intellectual! 

3.
 To keep Notre Dame alive in the families and friends of its alumni — the Fraternal! 

4.
 To keep Notre Dame alive — the Financial! 


From these basic objectives stem the hundreds of program activities that are better left without categorical labels—e.g. the Alumni Clubs, the ALUMNUS magazine, NOTRE DAME magazine, the Class Reunions, Universal Notre Dame Night, Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, the annual selection of directors, the reading lists, the alimmi section in the stadium, the Annual Alumni Fund, the alumni placement service, etc. 
J^olre Dame ^omdai'm Qomnors 
Following a process of re-organiza­tion the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., has appointed the following State Governors: 
ALABAMA—Mr. Raymond E. Faher­ty, '24, Birmingham News Adv. Dcpt., Birmingham, Alabama. 
.\RIZONA—Mr. John G. O'Malley, '36, 41 E. Country Club Drive, Phoenix, Arizona. 
ARKANSAS — Mr. Raymond A. Marre, '37, 2510 Dodson Avenue, Fort Smith, Arkansas. 
CALIFORNIA—Mr. Leo B. Ward, '20, 214 Rowan Building, 458 S. Spring Street, Los Angeles, Calif. 
COLORADO—Mr. James F. Hanlon, '18, 1652 Glencoe Street, Denver, Colorado. 
CONNECTICUT —Mr. Timothy J. Murphy, Jr., '24, 9 Hughes Street. Hartford, Connecticut. 
DELAWARE—Mr. Arthur A. Baum, '36, 223 Champlain Avenue, Belle-moor, Wilmington, Delaware. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA —Mr. William D. Kavanaugh, '27, 416 Washington Building, Washington. 
D. C. GEORGLA^—Mr. Michael F. Wiedl, 
'34, 2217 Virgim"a Place, N.E., At­lanta, Georgia. 

IDAHO—Mr. Thomas J. Jones, Jr., '29, 214 First National Bank Bldg., Boise, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS—Mr. Leonard W. Con­don, '32, 1408 National Avenue. Rockford, Illinois. 
INDIANA—Mr. Kari F.' Johnson, '29, 4400 N. Meridian, Indianapolis, In­diana. 
IOWA—Mr. Henry C. Wur^er, '25, Blackhawk Hotels Company, Kahl Building, Davenport, Iowa. 
KANSAS—Mr. George A. Schwarz, '25, 246 N. Glendale Avenue, Wich­ita, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY—Mr. Roger J. Huter, '40, Huter-Quest & Company, 833 
W. Main Street, Louisville, Ken­tucky. 

LOUISIANA — Mr. Jules de la Vergne, '33, 413 Pere Marquette Building, New Orleans, Louisiana. 
MAINE —Mr. John U. Riley, '17, Bo.x 24, West End Station, Portland, Maine. 
MARYLAND —Dr. Roy O. Scholz, '35, HE . Chase Street, Baltimore, Maryland. 
MASSACHUSETTS —Mr. John F. Saunders, '31, Handschumacher & Company, 48 North Street, Boston, Massachusetts. 
MICHIGAN—Mr. C. Marcellus Ver­biest, '20, 2210 Park Avenue, De­troit, Michigan. 
MINNESOTA—Mr. Joseph L. Shiely, Jr., '37, Office of the Vice President, 
J. L. Shiely Co., Inc., 1101 Snelling Avenue, North, St. Paul, Minnesota. 

MISSISSIPPI—Mr. William H. Mill­er, '30, 133 S. Lamar, P.O. Box 1822, Jackson, Mississippi. 
MISSOURI—Dr. Matthew W. Weis, '22, 7379 Northmoor Drive, St. Louis, Missouri. 
MONTANA—Dr. Richard C. Mona­han, '98, 210-11 Mayer Building, Butte, Montana. 
NEBRASKA —Mr. Edward D. Mc-Kim, (NA) 300 Karbach Building, Omaha, Nebraska. 
NEW HAMPSHIRE —Mr. Ma.xime L. Gauthier, '29, 955 Montgomery Street, Manchester, New Hampshire. 
NEVADA—Mr. Edward P. Carville, '09, 1127 Gordon Avenue, Reno, Nevada. 
NEW JERSEY—Mr. John J. Winber­ry, '28, 15 Park Avenue, Ruther­ford, New Jersey. 
NEW MEXICO — Mr. Thomas P. Foy, '38, Box 266, Bayard, New Mexico. 
NORTH CAROLINA—Mr. Charles 
F. Powers, Jr., '36, 1005 Canterbury Road, Raleigh, North Carolina. 

NORTH DAKOTA—Mr. William L. Neff, '29, Mandan High School, Mandan, North Dakota. 
OHIO—Mr. Thomas F. Byrne, '28, 2248 Stillman Road, Cleveland Heights, Ohio. 
OKLAHOMA—Mr. William J. Sher­ry, '21, 1001 First National Build­ing, Tulsa, Oklahoma. 
OREGON—Mr. William C. Schmitt, '10, 2765 N.W. Nicblai Street, Port.­land, Oregon. 
PENNSYLVANIA —Mr. Joseph RL Farrell, '15, General Electric Com­pany, 300 N. Second Street, Har­risburg, Pennsylvania. 
RHODE ISLAND—Mr. John S. Mc-Kieman, '34, 291 Dudley Street, Providence, Rhode Island. 
SOUTH CAROLINA—Mr. Thomas 
F. Armstrong, Sr., (P) Connecticut Avenue Extension, Spartanburg, South Carolina, 

SOUTH DAKOTA—Mr. Thomas C. Kasper, '21, 321 N. Duluth, Apt 3, Sioux Falls, South Dakota." 
TENNESSEE—Mr. John Montedon­ico, '35, 3636 Southwood, Memphis, Tennessee. 
TEXAS—Mr. Clyde E.Broussard, '13, Beaumont Rice Mills, Beaumont, Texas. 
UTAH—Mr. Phillip J. Purcell, Jr., '35, 320 East 4th South, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
VERMONT —Mr. Edward G. Mc-Clallen, Jr., '31, E. G. McCIalIen-& Company, McClallan Building, Rut­land, Vermont. 
VIRGINIA—Mr. Paul M. Morrison, '40, 25 W. Princeton Circle, Lynch­burg, Virginia. 
WASHINGTON—Mr. William J. El­lis, '35, 76 East- Road, Tacoma, Washington. 
WEST VIRGINIA—Mr. Arthur P. Hudson, _ '95, Charleston National Bank Bldg., Charleston, West Vir­ginia. 
WISCONSIN—Mr. Grover F. Miller, '16, 612 Wisconsin Avenue, Racine, Wisconsin. 
WYOMING—Mr. Thomas G. Kassis, '31, 3306 Corey Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
November-December, 1953 

N. D. Men in Hall of Fame 
Rockne, Gipp, Thomas and Layden. Four of the greatest names in Notre Dame's star-studded 65-year football history were recently elected to the National Football Hall of Fame. Three of the group, the late Knute Rockne, the late George Gipp and Elemr Layden were honored at half­time ceremonies in Notre Dame Stadi­um during the ND-Pitt game. 
It was one of 16 award games throughout the country at which Hall of Fame plaques will be presented to 
;;>:aE'ia:•;;.:•::-•.• /••'--.-.:•• ' .-,<f? 
-• -• "=•'•'-•;•-,•• / • •' • •• , .^•,;-. / ••••'''',^~
teS&^'': 
KNUTE K. ROCKNE, '14 

those elected, or, if deceased, to a relative. The presentation at the Pitt game was made by Arch Ward, '23, Sports Editor of the Chicago Tribune, to: (1) Mrs. Knute K. Rockne, of South Bend, in behalf of her late famed husband; (2) Mrs. Paul Tay­lor of Kalamazoo, Mich., in behalf of her illustrious brother, George Gipp, and (3) Layden, who now resides in Kenilworth, 111. 
Rockne is not only the most fa­mous name in Notre Dame football, but also is generally considered to have been the greatest personality to have been associated with our autum­
16 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
nal pastime. He played for the Irish from 1911 through 1913, and cap­tained and played end in the latter year. 
He was an assistant coach and a chemistry professor at his alma mater from 1914 through 1917. He became head football coach in 1918 and from that year through 1930 had almost xmparalleled coaching success gaining a total of 105 \vdns, against but 12 losses and three ties. Rockne was killed, following the 1930 season, in a plane crash over Kansas. He was then 43 years of age. 
Gipp, a halfback, was declared by Rockne to have been his greatest player. It is legendary, whether fact or fiction, how he was discovered on the campus as a freshman by Rockne, kicking a football 60 yards. It is fac­tual, however, that in a frosh game he booted a 62-yard field goal. T.hat he played four seasons for the varsity from 1917-20. That he was the first 

U-^,. 
GEORGE GIPP, '20 

Notre Damer to be selected for first team AU-Amcrican honors, in 1920. 
Gipp died of a streptococcic infec­tion soon after his last game, as an entire campus knelt in prayer for his recovery. 
Frank Thomas, who quarterbacked 
FRANK THOMAS, '23 

Rockne's teams for three years—1920 through 1922, received his award at the Alabama-Tennessee game in Birm­ingham. In 1947 a heart attack forced him to retire as head coach at Alabama, where he had compiled the amazing total of 115 victories, 24 de­feats and seven ties in his 15 years at the helm. 
Layden's fame as a player rivalled that of Gipp's, and if his coaching record at his alma mater, from 1934 to 1940, was a shade below that of Rockne's, it was still just about the best in the country for the seven-year period he was "head man"—47 wins, against but 13 defeats and three ties. But most of all the "Thin Man," as he was called, is remembered as the fullback in football's most famous backfield, the Four Horsemen. 
ELMER F. LAYDEN, '25 

attending. BOB LEONARD. '41. JOHN FEAD, '48, ROBERT BOAfKAMP, *34, JOHN CRONIN, '48, and RAY GUDMENS. '47. were in charge of the successful affair. 
jUmni as m^^mAn excursion to the ND-Purdue game Mras spon­sored by the club. WALT NIENABER, '37, 5er\-cd as chairman for the trip. 
Akron 
A stag party Jointly sponsored by the Campus Chtb and the Akron Alumni Club was recently held. Guests of honor were incoming freshmen and their fathers. Nearly fifty persons were present. 
At a previous meeting the following oHiccrs of the Notre Dame club of Akron were elected. President: STEVE W02NIAK, '28. Vice President: JOSEPH H. KRAKER, '28. Sec & Treas.: THOMAS J. AMER, *49. —GLENN SAflTH 

Aurora 
The Notre Dome Club of Aurora elected new officers at a recent meeting for the coming year. The members who were elected as officers are as follo\%'s: 
President: DICK REEDY, *44. Vice President: JOHN YOUNGEN, '3i. Secretary: JOHN RILEY, 44. Treasurer: BOB KEARNS, '43. 
Tlic club held a dinner meeting at the country club on Sept. 23rd, with 75 slumni and non-ahtmni friends attending. Club President DICK REEDY was in chanje of the program that evening. CLARENCE RUDDY, '22, spoke in behalf of the Scholarship Fund which is one of the club's proj­ects. Ncal Foster, professional magician, performed feats of magic The group listened to current devel­opments on the campus by JOHN CACKLEY, '37, from the Notre Dame Foundation office. A question and answer session about professional football was conducted with BILL FISCHER. '49, JOHN PAN­ELU, '49, BOB DOVE. '43, and Jack Jennings, present from the Chicago Cardinals grid team. Jennings played for Ohio State. 
Baltimore 
DON RAMPALIw\, '53, has returned to the calm of the Science Building to pick up a master's in physics. FRANK HOCHREITER, '35, must give a lot of rope to his kids because they came up with four skip>rope prizes at the annual outing. Refreshments, by the way, at this affair were just fair for CHARLEY KREIS. '51, who 
•till will not have his taste satisfied until he gets a platter of ND chow hall potatoes. BOBBY WILLIAMS, '51, is still pitching pigskins locally, but is taking orders from a bearded quarterback at Bainbridge Naval Station, rather than the Colli. GREG HALPIN, '49, and CY WITTE, '47, confounded the innocent while teacliing re­spective public relations and education courses at Loyola College tins summer. DR. BRYCE SMITH has finished his army drilling to return to civilian life and pick up cudgels of molar mechanics, his chosen career. JOE PONS, '44. BERNIE CRO­NIN, '34. and FRANK O'CONNELL, '41, all came up with boys tins summer. Future Notre Dame material, no doubt. 
—J. MURR^VY ^VIE.\0\N 


BuflFaio 
Through the generous arranging of our well-known Buffalo Club member. JIM.\fIE DUNNI­GAN, '34, owner of the Buffalo Raceway in the neighboring village of Hamburg, the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo ipnnsored a *N*itc at the 
• Races'! Tlils took place June IGth. Tlie seventh race was designated the ND Trot and as an in­troduction to Post Call, the Notre Dame Victory March by our Glee Chib resounded across the oval in in«p*ring fashion. After a spectacular finish, JAMES T. CLAUSS, '44. president of the local club, DO.VALD J. JACOB!. '34. treasurer, and James J. Dunnigan, all accompanied by tlie owner of the winning horse, proceeded out on the track. In conjunction with the presentation to the victor of a proper blue and gold luxilcr, a check in the amount of one thousand dollars (51,000) was presented by Jimmie Dunnigan to the Scholarship Fund of the Notre Dome Alumni Club of Buffalo. Again the strains of the Vic­tory March were heard as a line group of ND friends in attendance showed their appreciation for so noble a gesture. 

Canfon 
Se\'cnty-five alumni, their families and guests were present at tlie fourth annual family picnic of the Notre Dame Club of Canton. Featured were refreshments and actiWties for both young and old. 
The picnic committee consisted of BOB O'BRIEN, '47, and JOE VIGNOS, '49, as co-chairmen, assisted by BUD ZINK, '48, DR. FRANK SCHIRACK, '46, EMIL OTT, '37, NORM CONLEY, '3S, and JACK KENNEDY, '49. 
—JOE VIGNOS 


Carolina 
TIic new Carolina Notre Dame Club has been founded by the Notre Dame alumni of that \icimiy. Future activities of tlie club were dis­cussed at the initial meeting and it is the hope that the club may include tlie alumni of both the Carolinas. A get-together prior to and at the Notre Dame-North Carolina game at Chapel Hill this fall has been planned. 
Officers of the newly organized club include: 
President: ROBERT H. PERCIVAL, '48. Vice President: JOSEPH JACOBS. JR., '46. Treasurer: JAMES A. MALCOLM, '33. Secretar>-: G. G. URB.VN, '48. Comm. Chair.: JOHN AfacCLEMENTS, '43. Chaplain: FATHER GREGORY. 
—G. G. URBAN 


Chicago 
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago's Annual Golf Tournament was again held at Elmhurat Country Club on July 20th. Despite foreboding skies and early morning showers, the day was an outstanding success. About 225 pla>'ed golf and approximately 300 were on hand for an excellent steak dinner. M a result of tlic prize solicitation drive, enough prizes and funds were contributed to enable almost cver>'one to take home a prize. In addition, Notre Dame ashtrays were distributed. ART ARQUILLA, *50, won the golf champion­ship and one leg on the cup with a gross 72. Other low net winners in order were: FRANK 
E. McLAUGHLLN, '33. AL McGUFF, 'St. JOHN BECKER. '51. JOHN E. WALSH, '43, HOBIE MURNANE. '44, JOSEPH H. NASH, '29. JOHN 
J. WALSH, '49. and WALTER McGUIRE. '50. Free Pabst beer was donated through the cour­tesy of JACK MORLEY, '35, and FRED SNITE. SR., again donated greens fees for the day. JIM DOYLE. '31, Chairman, again wishes to thank tliose ^vho generously supported the mail campaign for prizes. 

Cincinnati 
A financially and socially successful danco was recently held by the Notre Dame Club of Cin­cinnati. Approximately 115 couples were in at­tendance at the affair held at the Maketcu-ah Counlry Club. Tlie credit for tliis success be­longs to JOHN CRONIN, '48, who was the very able chairman. 
A pxnic was held early tliis fall with dub members, present students and incoming freshmen 
The annual Christmas dance will be held on December 29 in the Pavilion Caprice of the Nethcrland Plaza Hotel- Eight hundred to 900 people are expected for this social highlight of the holiday season. Proceeds are used for the scholarship fund. 

Cleveland 
The Annual Family Picnic held on the grounds of Gilmour Academy this year >vas chairmaned by JOHN LEVICKI, '37, and attended by JERRY LINN, '32, and STAN LECHOWICK, '27, and their families. It should be added that many others were present, but with Jerry and Stan, their w'ives and children, we already had 26 in attendance. Jerry brought his nine boys and three girls and Stan brought his se%-en boys and three girls. Needless to say many of the contest prizes went home with these families. 
CREIGHTON MILLER, '44, was the wnner of the new FATHER MIKE MORIARITY Me­morial Trophy at the golf party held July 23rd at the beautiful Elyria Country Club. General Chairman HUGH BALL, '32, was assisted by JOHN CHAPLA, '23, who handled the prizes. ED ••XfOOSE" KRAUSE, Notre Dame athletic director helped swell the crowd to over 100 golfers. 
Our fall activities were kicked-ofT by Jack Clowser, veteran sports writer for the Clevrland Press, whose account of last year's ND-Oklahoma game was reprinted in its entirety In the '53 Dome, Jack, who had just finished visiting ND and the' Big Ten schools, spoke at our gathering Sept. 17th at Rohrs Restaurant. 
The ND football highlights of '52, complete with sound track, along with beer and pre:zeli, filled out the even'ng. Among those present were FRED SLACKFORD, '18, roommate of GEORGE GIPP; alumni froni Penn State, Ohio State and John Carroll and out-of-towners from Erie, Akron and Elyria. FRED FRIEND, '50, general chalr^ man, certainly extended himself. 
Oct. 15th saw another of those $1.00 (for re­freshments) get-togethers at which time the win­ner of the all-expense-pald-trip to ND for the Georgia Tech game ^vas drawn. BOB STACK, '41, was chairman of the raffle, and the proceeds went to the Scholarship Fund. 
It is reported that 41 students from the Cleve­land area are enrolled as freshmen at ND for the fall semester. 
Chairman JIM COLLERAN, '35, is in the process of making arrangements for the Family Communion Breakfast on December IStb. FATHER JOYCE will be guest-speaker. Co-chair­men BOB LALLY, '52, and RAY MILLER, JR., '51, are also getting things rolling for the annual Christmas Dance which will be held on De­cember 26. 
We wish to extend our deepest sympathy to KARL MARTERSTECK, '29, on the death of his mother, late in September. ^Vc humbly aik that you remember her in your prayers. 
—VIN DeCRANE. Secy. 


Columbus 
The big event of the summer for the Notr* Dame Club of Columbus was a family picnic So which all the prospective students and their par­ents were invited. It was a grand outing with about 160 In attendance. A volley ball game In­volving the old timers and yntmTsters saw ED CANTWELL, *24, DR. TOM HUGHES, '38, and JOHN IGOE, '28, competing with Ralph GugU­elmi. Chuck Bentz and Jeff Diggs. The game worked up ravenous appe:itcs for the heaps of fried chicken, potato salad, and melons. The work of planning this afTair was turned over to the ladies and they did an excellent job. 
Tlie Columbus Club Is very proud of Its schol­arship winner, Jefferson Diggs. Here is a young colurird boy who found his ov\-n \s-ay into our Faith, led his brothers and sisters after him and has his parents under instructions now. He left public high school to enroll at Rosary High un­der the guidance of Monsignor Mattingly and displayed an enviable scliolastic acumen. Ar­rangements for his taking the scholarship exam were made and he came through in top-flight fashion to win the Bums Scholarship. 
—JOHN IGOE, Pres. 

Dearborn 
The Notre Dame Club of Dcarfjorn recently enjoyed its annual family picnic Games u'cre enjoyed by all age groups. TIic affair was ex­pertly handled bv chairman JOHN GCHAEFER. '49. 
A recent meeting was held in the home of GENE RHEAUME, '29. on September 26, the day of the Notre Dame-Oklahoma game. TIic day's game was discussed and plans iverc made for the trip to South Bend for the Georgia Tccli game. A group of 78 enjoyed this one-day tour. 
—PETER J. KERNAN, JR. 

Detroit 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of Detroit ran special tours to both the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech game on October 24th, and the Notre Dame-Navy game on October 31st. Both trips were ex­tremely succ:cssful and the Detroitcrs seemed happy to sec tlie Irish in action again. 
The Detroit Club staged a brer and pretzel party on September 9th with 375 persons in at­tendance. ED RONEY cliairmaned the affair. Don Wattrick. sportscaster of W'X'^'Z, was master of ceremonies. The program was unique and in­teresting and concerned the approaching football season. ED KRAUSE represented the University. Rone>' corresponded with each alumni ofHcc of Notre Dame's 1953 opponents with the result that a speaker representing racli opponent school was on the program for a four-minutc talk. Present students and incoming fmhmen with their fathers Were also invited. Sports writers and radio men answered questions about the '53 season generally. 
Evansville 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of Evansviiic's officers for the year 1953 arc as follows: 
President: EDWARD F. HALLER, '42. Vice President: WILLIAM R. HENNESSEY,'47. Treasurer: E. FRED THEIS, '36. Sccretar>-: THOMAS G. SCHEITLIN. '47. 
Tlie annual barbecue was held at the West Haven Gun Club on September 10. The buffet style barbecue clilckcn dinner was followed by mbcer games. 
PAUL C. THOLE, '35, the chairman of the entertainment committee, thoroughly confused the crowd with Indian rope tricks. Dancing for all completed the evening's activtics until ' the won­derful crowd had dissipated to their abodei awaiting tht next activity of the Notre Dame Club. 
A local store is going to sponsor the broad­casts of all the Notre Dame football games in 1953:. 
—T. G. SCHEITUN 

Fort Wayne 
The Fort Wayne Xotre Dame Club held an election of ofHcers on last June 22, at our annual Stag Picnic Tllese officers have now assumed their duties for a two-year term and include the following: 
President: ROBERT E. KEARNEY, '48, 1702 Pemberton Drive, Fort AVaync, Indiana. Vice President: MAURICE J. DeWALD, '33, 426 West Oakdalc, Fort Wayne, Indiana. Secretary: GERALD F. PUTNAM, '44, 2812 Chestnut Street, Fort Wayne, Indiana. Treasurer: KENNETH T. SEYMOUR, "49, 31B'y^ East Rudisill Blvd., Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
—GERALD PUTNAM, '44 
RICHARD T. CONNELLY, '31 

Richard T. Connelly, who gradu­ated from the University in 1931, has been named press director of the Na­tional Broadcasting Company. 
A native of Perth Amboy, New Jer­sey, he was a newspaperman for nine years with the Hudson Dispatch of Union City, New Jersey. More recent­ly Connelly has been associated with Young and Rubicam, Inc., of New 
•York City as assistant radio and tele­vision publicity director. 
Connelly is past Vice President of the Hudson County Branch of the American Newspaper Guild. While at ND he was on the football squad for two years, though he admits "no one knew it but myself." 
His son, Richard J., is currently a junior at Notre Dame. 
Green Bay 
HUGH DEVORE, Head Football Coach of the University of Notre Dame in '43, is now an as­sistant coach with the Green Bay Packers. Hughie accepted the Packer position when NYU decided to drop out of the football picture. 
LARRY COUTRE and GUS CIFELLI of the 1930 class, are both members of this ycar'i Packer team. JACK VAINISI, class of 1930, is also a talent scout and a member of the Packer front office. 
Mr. Peter J. Christman, father of WALLACX 
P. CHRISTMAN, class of 1944, and brother of NORBERT CHRISTMAN. class of 1932, died July 16, 1933. 
Mr. Joseph Lally, father-in-law of JOHN 
CHRISTMAN, class of 1942, and uncle of Patrick 
Lally, present student, died September 10, 1933. 
HENRY DELACENSERIE, class of 1948, mar­
ried Miss Lorraine Radant of Appleton, Wisconsin 
on September 5, 1933. 
TOM HEARDEN, class of 1923, former coach of St. Norbert College football, is now freshman coach at University of Wisconsin. 
—JACK VAINISI, Secy. 

Hutchinson 
The Universty recently received a contribution of 563.70 from the Notre Dame Club of Hutchin­son, Kansas, a newly-organizrd alumni group. 
Idaho 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH NETTLETON. '29. of Murphy, Idaho, entertained members of the Notre Dame Club of Botse at an outdoor steak fry on Sunday. August 2. 
Tlic cook-out was held at Silver City, famed Idaho ghost town of ycster>xar, and perennial summer attraction. Alumni and their families drove Into Silver City Sunday morning after early Mass. and following a delicious meal of filets and New York Cut steaks, supplied by the Nettletons and cooked to perfection by Club V-P FRANCIS NEITZEL. *23, they toured the old silver and gold mining town. Historical state­ments appear on each of the buildings and it was interesting to read when the places were erected and what purposes they ser\*ed. 
Alumni had a wonderful day in the clear air of 7,000 feet elc%'atIon, surrounded by the beauty of the Owyhee mountains and the kind hospitality of the Nettletons. 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Idaho is making plans to bring the University Glee Club to Boise for a winter concert. If the Concert Is arranged the Gleemen will be sponsored by the Boise Cotinctl of the Knights of Columbus. 
AL.AN J. POWERS, representative of the Unl­\-crsIty of Notre Dame Foundation was the guest of the Notre Dame Club of Idaho, at a luncheon meeting held Oct. 13 at the Valencia Dining Room in Boise. T- J. JONES, JR.. Idaho Foun­dation Governor was in charge of arrangements. 
Wally Butts, head coach of football at Georgia, conducted a coaches' clinic here in August. Mr. Butts was invited to lunclieon with ND Alumni, but was unable to make It, appreciating the in­\-itation. Coach Leahy held a similar clinic here three years ago. 
Weekly lundieon meetings continue to be held each Friday, at the Valencia Dining room, 612 Idaho St., Boise. Traveling alumni arc Invited to attend. 
—PHIL SHEA. Secy. 

Indionapoiis 
Rain killed one of the events planned by the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis this stunmer. It dampened the other event but failed to keep it from being a huge success. 
Attempts to Inaugurate an annual family picnic for club members and their families failed again tills year when Sept. 19 turned up dark, rainy and cold. HXW. FOX, *40, took care of all of the arrangements, except the rain, for the second straight year. 
Many of the golfers in the annual golf tourney at the Highland Golf and Country Club called it quits at the end of nine holes when the rains came bere July 21, but several finished the full route. PAUL SCHRENKER, '36, posted a low score of 76; LARRY SEXTON, '33, came in with a 77 for the second spot and JACK KIRBY. '42. took third with a 78. Johnny Druze, Notre Dame end coacli, bested his boss. Head Coach FRANK LEiVHY, by four strokes when he came in with an 82. Mavbe the rain had something to do with it but BERNIE CRIMMINS used III* assorted strokes to finish the 18 holes. Incident­ally, it was at the golf banquet after the tour­ney that Leahy glumly predicted that the Irish "would be lucky to make a first down this season." 
LEO BARNHORST, *43, has signed with the Baltimore Bullets to play professional basketball this year. 
Kansas 
A new member was added to the list of alumni clubs this past summer >vhen a group of Notre Dame men got together to form the Notre Dame Club of Kansas. The club will centralize its activities in and around Salina. 
Officers elected were: 
J. E. FOLEY, '40, president. DR. F. A. CANS, '43, vice-prcs. 
R. A. McAULIFFE, '36, scci'-trcas. 

Kansas City 
The Notre Dame Club of Kansas City recently elected new officers for the coming year. The results were as follows: 
President: ROBERT METZLER, '44. 
Vice President: RUSSELL FARRELL, '48. 
Sccrctar>-: JIM DOLAN, '51. 
Treasurer: EUGENE VANDENBOOM, *50. 

Tlie club announced that they will sponsor the William Rockhill Nelson Scholarship for attend­ance of a local boy at the University. Mr. Nel­son \vns a very distinguished neu*spapcr man and for many years was the editor and manager of the Kansas City Star. 
JAMES ARMSTRONG, *25, was the honored guest at the celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night. He prescn:ed DICK BOWES, '38, wth the "Man of the Year" award. Dick, by the way, will be leaving Kansas City soon for the locale of Los Angeles. 
—ED AYL^VARD 

Hard working Bob Metzler, president of the club, really swung into action during August and September. First gct-togclher was :he Annual Picnic held at the Nigro Farm. About 100 alumni and friends were in attendance to watch the soft­ball game, enjoy the barbecue, soft lights, talk of Notre Dame fonlball and songs provided by recent graduates, GEORGE HIGGINS, '53, GENE MEUNIER, '53. BUNKY CONNOR, '53, and older hands CHUCK FRIZZELL, '50, JOHN SEE, '51, and JIM DOLAN, '50. Under the shadows with a party of friends were DICK PREZEBEL, '35, JOE VAN DYKE, '44, and BILL DUNN, '46. Around the coolers leading in son^s and comedy were DAVE CROOKS, '38, BERNIE FIN­UCANE. BOB PENDERGAST, '35, BOB 0^\'ENS, JOHN TROUP, '43, DICK BOWES, '38, and ED AYLWARD, '48. Standing on the sideKncs talking over the Oklahoma-Notrc Dame football game were DOC NIGRO, '42, JOE SHAUGHNESSY, '22, JOHN DAW, '52, and CARL ERFFMEYER, '51. Club Treasurer GENE VANDENBOOM, '50, was unable to attend at the last minute due to a pressing engagement at home which later ended at the hospital with the arrival of Mary Chris­tine, a seven-pound girl. 
The night of the picnic Bob Metzler kept the club in pace by announcing the Notre Dame Club of K-in:as City would sponsor a Special Train to the Oldahoma-Notre Dame game with proceeds going to the Scholarship Fund. SL\ weeks later Bob and his commiltee headed a Kansas City Alumni cheering squad of 300 people in 18 Pull­man cars for the big game. The trip sold out fast but arrangements and details kept a crew of spirited Alumni busy for weeks. 
"He's a Notre Dame man" for former president Dick Bowes, Joe Van Dyke and Bernic Finucane for their work on special arrangements for the Oklahoma trip. 
The winner of the rafHe was &frs. Pauline Elliott. 

The local Notre Dame Club Women's Auxiliar>­worked foi the Scholarship Fund this fall with a luncheon at the Twin Oaks Drning Room. The affair was headed by Mrs. Gladys O'Malley, President. Also on the sclicdulc was a rummage sale ol clothing in the last week of October. Mrs. Norman Bowes was Chairman and said there was a grand turnout. 
The next Communion Breakfast is scheduled for the Notre Dame De Sion School the Sunday nearest December Btli in honor of the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. 
Following the Christmas Spirit everything is set up lor another wow of a time at the Annual Christmas Dance. The same arrangements as last 
CLUB CALENDAR 
Boston—^Weekly luncheons on Mondays, Thompsons Spa, 239 Washington St., Boston. 
District of Columbia—Luncheon at Touchdown Club, 1414 Eye Street, 
N.W. Washington, every Tuesday noon. 
Evansville—Luncheon every Friday noon in the Marine Room of the Knights of Columbus in dov/ntown Evansville, Ind. 
Ft. Lauderdale—Second Thursday of each month. Check President of Club for location, dinner-meetings. 
Harrisbung—Weekly luncheon every Friday at 12 noon in the Pickwick Tavern (mezzanine) Harrisburger Hotel, Horrisburg, Pa. 
Idaho—Luncheon at Valencia Dining Room, 612 Idaho St., Boise, every Friday, 12:30. 
Kansas City—Luncheon at Famous Restaurant, every Thursday noon. 
Kentucky—Monthly meeting every third Thursday at 8 p.m., K. of C. Building, South Rfth Street, Louisville, Kentucky. 
Miami—Rrst Thursday of each month. Dinner at 6:30 p.m., meeting at 8:00 p.m. 
Naugatuck Valley—Second Monday of each month. Hotel Elton, Waterbury, Conn. 
Oklahoma City—Monthly business meeting, first Saturday of each month, 12:30 p.m., Beverley's Restaurant, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. 
Pittsburgh—Luncheon each Thursday noon at the Hotel Sheraton in downtown Pittsburgh. 
Rochester—Regular meeting on the last Monday of every month in the Hotel Sheraton, at 8:00 p.m., Rochester, New York. 
Southern Colorado—Monthly luncheon on the first Thursday of every month at the Swiss Chalet Restaurant in Colorado Springs, Colo. 
Tidewater—^The first Tuesday of each month at the Pinecrest Hotel, Norfolk, Vo. 
Tulsa—Luncheon every Thursday at the Mayo Hotel, 12 noon, Tulsa, Okla. 
Wabash Valley—Luncheon on the first Wednesday of each month at 12:15 p.m., at the Blue Room of the Bohemia in the Lahr Hotel, Lafayette, Indiana. 
West Virsginia—Luncheon on the first Tuesday of each month at 
12:15 p.m., at the West Virginia Room (Elks Club) Charleston, West Virginia. 
(Clubs having regular monthly, or weekly, meetings are urged to notify the Alumni Office.) 
year; a dinner dance uith one hour free cocktail party beforehand. If this !sn*t a lime, ask the students and alumni that crowded the President Hotel last year. Date is set for December 26th. See you there and in tlie next issue. \ • 
—RUSSELL FARRELL 

Kentucky 
An essay contest for graduating high scliool seniors was recently held by the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky, entitled "Why—a Catholic College Education?" Winners of solid gold key medals were Don Merklcy and John Cunningham. The judging committee of this contest consisted of Father Allgcicr of the Archbishop's staff, Brotlicr Mark. John Nf. Henncss%% BILL BOSLER, »41, President ol the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky, 
.and JOE DONALDSON, '23, chairman of the contest committee. 
Little Rock 
The Notre Dame men down Arkansas way have organized a new dub' to be known as the Notre Dame Club of Little Rock. At the iirst meeting the following officers were elected: 
President: JAME^ E. MADIGAN, '45. Vice President: KIRWIX J. >VILLIAAtS, '28. Secy.-Treas.: \\1LLUM V. O'BRIEN, '38. 
, —KIRWIN "TEX" WILLIAMS 
Los Angeles 
The Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles held its annual retreat late this summer at the Jesuit Retreat House in Azusa, Calif. A large percent­age of the club participated. 
On Sept. 4th tlie club held its student "eend­

ofT" party. Tlie twenty boys coming on the •• campus for the first time and their families '- greatly appreciated meeting and becoming ac­quainted with the members of the Alumni group. 
: Your prayers are requested for the repose of tlie soul of Leo Quinlon wlio passed away re­cently, and for GEORGE BEARDSLEE, '00, who has been ill. 
Mexico City 
A meeting was held at the headquarters of the National Association of Movie Distributors by tlie Notre Dame Club of Mexico City on September 7th. President P. TELMO de LANDERO, '37, pre­sided at the meeting and SAM ADELO, '47, gave a short talk on "Recent Developments at Notre Dame—Tlie • Plans for Buildings in the Near Future." 
Four movie shorts were also shown: Lobund; A Day in the Life of the Student; Historical Sketch on ND; and Scientific Research Techniques at ND, along with "Football Highlights of 1952." A buffet dinner was held after the meeting witli approximately 30 people in attendance, ranging in class years all tlic way from 1916 to 1933. 
—ABDALLAH SAMUEL ADELO 

Miami 
It seems attendance records of all kinds were broken at meetings of the Notre Dame Club of Miami this last summer. Keep up the good work boys. Of course with parties like the one at SADOWSKrS Key ifotel it shouldn't be too hard to lure in members. It seems Dick really threw a real one, at which JONES and PIO­WA7*Y won prizes for smallest and largest fish caught, respectively. 
The annual Notre Dame Club picnic was held later In the summer. It turned out to be a great success with activities held for those so inclined. 
One fact that has all the members talking is the possibility of theater television of all the Irish home games. Jack Shay, one of the oIEcials at WTVJ, and also an associate member of the Notre Dame club, was appointed diairman of a committee to follow this affair. Hope the com­mittee can accomplish this amazing feat. 
Mid-Hudson Valley 
The club recently held its annual Summer picnic at Mirror Lake. Tlie outing was a great success, and of course no danger could prevail with TONY BUONO, '43, and BOB DEEGAN, '46, acting as life guards. It seems ED CON­GER, '42, HENRY FISHER, JOE RORICK, '42, and JOHN DRUMGOULD, '40, were vcr>­upset over the cold drink situation, which they immediately remedied. 
The first Fall meeting was held at the Ex­change Club at Saugertics, New York, on Septem­ber 23rd. All future meetings of the club will be held on the first and third Thursdays of the month and w-ill be dinner meetings. The club voted to continue its program of mailing the Scholastic to the local high schools and also discussed plans for giving sLx Penns>ivania tickets in order to raise money for the scholarship fund. 
-JO E McCABE, Secy. 

Mississippi 
A small, yet enthusiastic, delegation of Mis^ sissippi Notre Dame men and their wives met in Jackson on October 9th and organized the Notre 
Dame Alumni Association of Mississippi. The 
group was composed of men wiio came from all 
over the state to attend this Initial meeting. 
BILL MILLER, '30. newly appointed Notre 

Dame Foundation governor of the state acted 
as master of ceremonies and it was chiefly 
througli his efforts, with the help of JIM 
FRICK, University representative, that tlie meet­
ing was possible—and succcssfuL 
Newly elected officers arc: JIM, DOUGHERTY, 

'51, president; BILL CONDON. '39, DR. VITO 
CANIZ.\RO, '29, PAT BURNS. '33, vice prcsi­
dents; and JERRY DERIVAUX, '52, secretary-
treasurer. 
The festivities began with a cocktail party in 

the afternoon. Following this, the group went 
to the rancli home of JAMES T. C/\NIZARO, 
'28, and had the business mectint;, saw the 
Notre Dame football highlights of 1952 on film, 
and ended the evening with a delicious shrimp 
feast. 
' All present were eager to cooperate to put our club on a solid footing. The next meeting Is tentatively planned for the early part of Januar>'. 
-JERRY DERIVAUX 

New Jersey 
JOE BYRNE, '47, was responsible for the suc­cess of our first annual club event, the Fresh­man ^Velcomc, which was held at the Robert Treat Hotel in Newark on September 9th. Each >'ear a preliminary meeting Is held between Alumni and present New Jersey students to estab­lish closer contact between the Alumni group and the New Jersey Campus Club. Then both groups greet tlie incoming Freshmen and their fathers who are invited to meet with the Club prior to leaving for Notre Dame. The program consisted of a short welcoming speech and some words of instruction by present students, followed by mo­tion pictures of the University. Joe Bj-mc's dili­gent efforts resulted in the attendance of 38 of 
the new students and their fathers. 
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., and Arch­bishop Thomas Boland of the Newark Arch­diocese have already accepted invitations to be guests of honor at our Annual Communion Break­fast, December 6th. The Montclair Golf Club has been engaged for the Breakfast following eight o'clock Mass at Immaculate Conception Church in Montclair. The ladies are invited this year and a large turnout Is expected so reservations are being requested at an early date. A member of the Club in your Immediate area will call you to answer any questions that may arise. Two other surprise guests will be announced. 
President CLARK REYNOLDS, '38, has de­vised and presented to the Board of Directors, an operation procurement whereby prospective Notre Dame students will be contacted and given an opportunity to learn what the University* has to offer them. The organization will be permanent 
Chicago alumni ^ives on the steering committee of the October GIcc Club Concert and the planned December Dinner Dance. In photo at left are Mrs. James R- Martin, Mrs. Neil C. Hurley and Mrs. Gilbert Seaman. At right are Mrs. George Menand, Mrs, 
John J. O'Shaughnessy, and Mrs. A. C, Stepan, Jr. 
The New Jersey Club's annual dance. Standing L. to R. are Clark Reynolds, club prexy, and Leo Costello. Seated are Rita Murner, Mrs. Clark Reynolds, Mrs. Francis Moore, and Francis Moore. 
in nature and will culminate this year, in an 
orientation program on December 6th in the 
afternoon. 
—TOM GREEN, Secy. 
New Mexico 
A new alutnnt group, the Notre Dame Club of New* Mexico, was recently organized. At tlic ini­tial meetiog the following men were named as ofHcen: 
President: CECIL E. JORDAN, '40, Vice Prcs.: ANTHONY F. POTENZIANI, '40. Secretary: WILLIAM J. SCHULTHEIS, '53. Trcasuren RALPH G. GLASER, '52. 
Plans to attend the Notre Dame-Oklahoma game were discussed, and a plan to set aside a fifteen-minute period at each meeting for discus* sion of previously prepared religious questions will be carried out. 
New Orleans 
We have been informed by LEO HAPPEL, "37, that new olHcers have been elected for the Notre Dame Club of New Orleans. The results of that election are as follo\%-s; 
President: BILL JOHNSTON, '44. 
Vice President: PETE L. HILBERT, '50. 
Secretary: BILL REDMANN, '49. 
Leo, by the way, is the retiring club president. 
New York 
A fairly busy summer was had by the Notre Dame Club of New York and things don't look to be slowing down much for the fall. Three big events during the summer made that season a success, while the coming highlight will be a trip to Philadelphia for the Penn game in No­vember. 
Tlie first big event of the summer was a dance at the end of May in honor of the ladies of Notre Dame men. Approximately 125 couples were in attendance, and all IIMI a wonderful time. HERB GIORGIO, '33, BILL JOHNSON, '43, and TONY E^VRLEY, '44. were co-chairmen of this afTatr. 
Next ^vas a Notre Dame Night held at Ebbcts Field, Brooklyn, prior to and during a double­header between the Dodgers and Cubs. The aJTair ^v-as open to wives, children, friends, and business acquaintances of the alumni, and chair­men "BUD" MUL\^Y, JOHN DUFFY. '44, and JIM CLYNES, JR., '45, obtained the faciliu'es of the Dodgers* Pri^-atc Dining Rooms and a fine selection of seats for the occasion. 
The third event was the Di%'ot Diggers' 263rd Annual Meeting. Tills was a combination golf match-banquet, held at the Lewood Country Club in Tuckahoe, N. Y., with 69 members in attend­ance. They were even permitted 12 divots or two square yards of turf per man this year, depend­ing on which came first. 
The Club is now in the process of holding ju annual Trust Fund Drive. It was announced in August that Harry E. Smith of Staten Island, a graduate of St. Peter's High School, Staten Island, had been awarded the 1953 Trust Fund Scholarship. Harry was graduated at tlie top of his class with a 90.7 percent average. 
Chairman TIM O'ROURKE, '30, meanwhile, is completing his plans for the annual football trip to the Penn game in November. 
HARRY STUHLDREHER. '25, quarterback of the Four Horsemen, was the guest speaker at our September Ktck-OfF Meeting. He recounted several of his numerous experiences both as a player and a coadi. He proved to be an excel­lent speaker, and one that the Club thoroughly enjoyed having as its guest. 
The Club was fortunate in having JIM BRTTT, ARTHUR "RED" PATTERSON and JACKIE FARRELL give their obserx'ations on the ^VorId Series, whicli opened tlie next day in T^cw York. Mr. Briit gave a short but inspiring talk on the values of a Notre Dame education. The Club is deeply grateful to these men for having taken the time away from the opening of the Yankee Press Room for the series to be \v*ith us on that occasion. 
—JAMES J. CLYNES, JR., Secy. 
Northern California 
ROBERT F. ERVIN, '36, Business Adminis­trator of Lobund at Notre Dame and first assist­ant to PROFESSOR REYNIERS, met with the Notre Dame Club of Northern California while he was in San Francisco for a convention dur­ing August. A luncheon was held for him at :he St. Francis Hotel, where Ervin gave an extremely interesting talk concerning germ-free life and the scientific experiments now being conducted in Lobund's laboratories. 
Dues of the club were reduced at a recent meeting from $3.00 to $2.00 in the hope of in­cluding all the members in the dub and plans were drawn up for a barbecue in September to get the list of fall events rolling. 
Radio and TV broadcasts you will want to hear and lee: Each Saturday over KYA the broadcasts of Notre Dame football games. Each Sunday afternoon a telecast of the Notre Dame game played the previous day. These broadcasts are sponsored by the Chevrolet dealers in San Francisco and Oakland. A fifteen minute inter* view before the game telecast on Sunday with FRANK LEAHY can be sponsored by a Notre Dame man who wishes to Identify himself and his business in a very effective way at a reason­able price. For details regarding the sponsorship please contact Mr. J. Grill at KGO-TV, 420 Taylor Street, San Francisco. 
Oklahoma City 
The Zebra Room of the ^lunicipal Auditorium was rescrv*ed for the night of September 25, the night before the Notre Dame-Oklahoma g:une, for a huge rally dance. A local dance band was ob­tained and alumni from Clubs in Denver, San Antonio, Dallas, Houston, Kansas City, St. Louu, Chicago, and South Bend, who ran special trains for the game, attended. It was a successful event that preceded another successful appearance of the Irish on the gridiron. 
—E. S. KAVANAUGH 
Oregon 
The Oregon Club held its third annual Parents and Students Night, in honor of the present stu­dents of Notre Dame and their parenis on Sept. 3rd, at the Um'versity of Portland. BOB MOIJN, '40, and TOM MAGEE, '32, were chairmen of the event. BILL FISCHER. '49, BOB DOVE, '42, and JOHN PANELLI. '49, members of the Chicago Cardinals football team who were prac­ticing at the University of Portland, were pres­ent. Honored guests were Charles Fick, '54, Justin ^foran, '54, James Moran, '56, and Bill Sykes, '57. 
Congratulations to RT. REV. MSGR. THOM­AS J. TOBIN, '25, on the honor of domestic prelate recently conferred on him by His Holiness Pope Pius XII. Msgr. Tobin, Vicar-General of the Archdiocese of Portland in Oregon, is one of the first two priests to be so designated in many years. 
Vfc welcome to Oregon FRANK J. TRIE^VEI­LER. '32, who came to us from Boncsteel, N. D. Frank expects that the "Oregon Mist" will make his farming efforts more producti%'e. 
FRED CUNNINGHAM, '30, has recently opened his own accounting office in West Slope. 
DR. RALPH PRAG is back at his Portland practice after his third hitch in the army. ED SCOTT. PH.D.. '46, is now on the staff of the Eastern Oregon State Hospital in Pendleton. REV. GREGORY a LAIR. Af.A., '53, has been assigned in charge of the high school of the Star of the Sea Church in Astoria, Oregon. 
The dub honored MOST REV. LORAS T. LANE. '32, aiLxiliary buhop of Dubuque, Iowa, and president of Loras College at a luncheon given at the Mallory Hotel, Sept. 28. Bishop Lane was here to address the opening session of the Congress of Industrial Relations sponsored by Most Rev. Edward D. Howard, D.D., Ardibishop of Portland. Additional honored guests were REV. MICHAEL J. GAVIN, C.S.C., president of the University of Portland, also a classmate of Bishop Lane and FATHER JOHN J. WALSH, '30, a dassmalc of Bishop Lane at the ^Vmerican College in Rome. Present were FRED CUN­NINGHAM, '30, JIM HEALY, '46, JUDGE FRANK J. LONERG.\N. '04, BARNEY McNAB, '25. TOM MAGEE, '32, JIM MALETIS, '50, NATT McDOUGALL, '33, D. JOE McLAUGH-LIN, BOB MOLIN. '40, LOUIS MORx\N. GENE MURPHY, '24, JAMES MURPHY. HAR­RY NEWM^\N. DORWIN PAL.MER. '43, OS­CAR QUOIDBACH, '48, CHARLIE SLATF, '33, and BILL SCHMITT. *10. 
Philadelphia 
Philadelphia is anxiously awaiting the Penn game Nov- 7th. The Club has everything set for another gala weekend, and will start things off Friday night Nov. 6th witli a Rally and Notre Dame get-together at the ^Vanvick Hotel. Anyone who ts in Phila. that night can e^^^ect 
November-December, 1953 21 

Pictured at meeting of the Interstate Oil Compact Commission, New Orleans, La., arc 
L. to R.: Robert E. Sullivan, ND la^v professor and Indiana representative on the Com­mission; Hon. Edw-ard F. Am, Governor of Kansas and Chairman of Commission; Doxic 
Moore, Indiana Conservation Director; and Earl Foster, Executive Secretary of the Commission. 
to meet his old friends, classmates, etc., at this affair. Immediately following the game there uill be a Cocktail Party at the same War^vick Hotel. Because of the great response a year ago and expecting even greater things this year, like a clear-cut victory, tlie Club has rcser\ed every available bit of space at the "Wanvick. 
It seems BUD DUDLEY, '43, has done it again. No doubt all have read of his ffreat pro­motional effort as Athlcltc Director of 'V'rIIanoi'a College. The 58,000 fans who watdied ViIIano\-a*s opener with Georgia comprised the largest open­ing day football crowd in history. Bud's name is on tlic lips of all fans Iiereabouts, and he papers are already heralding him as another Tex Rickard. 
BOB HENSLER, '51, became the proud father of a baby daughter in July. Despite his status as a married man and tiou-a father. Bob still Jias a way with the little woman, Nanc>% and man­ages at least a round of golf a week. 
BILL WHITESIDE, '51, and fiancee Eileen Ferr>' have set their dale, February 27, 1954. Bill is presently in his last year of law school at Pcnn. 
WALT GROTHAUS, *50, center of that great team in *49, will take the center aisle trip next Spring. S:ems he met his fianrec last April at ilic wedding of our Prex;-, JACK DEMP3EY. Speaking ot Jack, I understand he soon will become a fa.her. 
At our last mcctin-*, "gourmets" JOE CATTIE, '41, and CLIFF PRODEHL, '32, exchanged reci­pes. Besides being an "amateur chef,** Cliff also finds time to be a gentleman farmer, and furtlier, assist JOE FARRELL, *15, the Pa. Governor of the ^otrc Dame Foundation, 
—JOHN F. vorr 

Pittsburgh 
A golf tournament and dinner was held by the Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh early in Scplem­bcr under the cliairmanship of GENE COYNE, '33. There were numerous prizes for both ex­perts and duffers but CHARLES TOTTEN, '28, went home with the low gross trophy. Tlie after-dinner entertainment featured Highlights of the Notre Dame 1952 Football Season on Sim. Special guests at tlic cx'ent were the officers of the campus club and the recent 1953 graduates. 
A drawing was also held on raffle books for the Scholarship Fund. Ttie prize: an all-expense­paid weekend trip for two people to the Notre Danie-Pitt game on October 17th, with lodgings in the Morris Inn. The seller of the winning ticket received the same prize. S eve Srsic was the winner on a ticket sold by RAY SRSiC, *48. 
The day after the golf party, the alumni and camptis clubs joined in a get-acquainted luncheon for new students just entering Notre Dame. 
Earlier in tlic summer a garden party was held at the home of Mr. and ^Srs. Dana to welcome JOHN NEESON, *35, Alumni Association Presi­dent, JIM ARMSTRONG, '25, Alumni Associa­tion Secretary and JOE FARRELL, '15, Founda­tion Governor of Pcnasv-lvania. FATHER VIN­CENT BRENNAN. '32, the Club's Chaplain, was Cha'rman of the event, and with the assistance of Mrs. Dana, FRANK ZAPPALA, '49, EDDIE FAY. '49, and ALEX LESKO, '49, provided an cnioyable party. Farrell announced that JACK MONTEVERDE, *38, past President of the club, had been appointed as Lieutenant-Governor of the Foundation Fund for Southwestern PcnnsyK'ania. Tlie climax of the evening's festivities was the presentation of a Iiugc birthday cake to Father Brcnnan. 
—LEE KIRBY 

Rochester (N.Y.) 
A Ecimmer-Fall Ball was held recently by the Notre Dame Club of Rocliester at the University Club. Tlie ailair was to inaugurate the *'p;gskin season" and a good time was reportedly enjoyed by all. 
Plans are being formulated for the annual re­treat on December 4, 5 and 6 at the Notre Dame Retreat House in Rochester. It will begin on Friday evening and close after the family com­munion breakfast on Sunday morning. Plans are also under^vay for the annual Christmas Formal, which will be held on Saturday, December 26. 
Alumni residing in or near Rocliester, who arc not on the mailing Hst, are urged to contact DON BOOTH, '49. at 509 Cedanvood Terrace, Rochester 9, N. V. 
—DON BOOTH 

Rock River Valley (III.) 
Tlie \vinncr of the 1953 Scliolarslup awarded by the Notre Dame Club of the Rock River Valley is Joseph Norton, a recent graduat- of St. Thomas High Scliool, Rockford, Illinois, it has been annsunccd. 
The club's annual summer picnic was hc!d at the Bittorf Lodge, Sterling, Illinois, towards the end of the summer. Sixty-nine alumni and stu­dents attended, representing Sterling, Dixon, Rock Falls, Amboy, Rockford, Rochellc, CbJ::ago, and Riclimond, Indiana. Refreshments, games, and a picnic dinner were enjoyed by those pres­ent and the winner of a 12-day all-cxp:nse trip to the Southern California game was announced as a climax to the scholarship fund raising cam­paign. He is BILL (CHICAGO BEAR) WIGHT­KIN, '50. 
Son Antonio 
The Notre Dame Club of San Antonio re­cently sponsored a ticket sale for the benefit of the Laymen's Retreat League. The prize at the 
drawing was two tickets 'to the Oklahoma game in Norman, along with two round-trip railroad and pullman tickets and $50 traveling expenses. Three pullman cars plus some private cars were also hired to take members of the club and their friends to the s^me. 
The club held its annual picnic the first part of September in the Lone Star Gardens. 
Son Diego 
JACK McCLAREN, '29, is the new president of the Notre Dame Club of San Diego as the result of recent elections. UGO D. ROSSI, '42, was elected vice-president in addition to being chosen *'Notre Dame Man of the Year" for that area, while PHILIP P. MARTIN, JR.. '45, is the new secretary-treasurer. 
HO^VARD F. BEILSTEIN, *47. and AVALTER GEUDTNER, *50, were elected to the board of directors, whose other members include the offi­cers, the retiring president, WIN DAY, *36, and RT. REV. MSGR. FRANCIS C. OTT, '18. chaplain. 
Tlic Club held its annual picnic on September 20th with a good turnout. Walt Geudtner was chairman of the committee In charge. His wife, Eileen, and her assistants provided a delidous picnic lunch. A softball game w-as the highlight of the day, and was enjoyed by all, but it ended when the ball was caught in the trees. 
Those attending with their fam'Ii'es were: PAUL DALLXUN, *49. ED REDMOND, '30, G. R. BILL. '29. FRANCIS DAVIS. *48, WIN DAY, *36, HOWARD BEILSTEIN. *47. UGO ROSSI, *42, Walt Geudtner and ERNIE KLING. '39. 
The club president, Jack McClaren, attended 
with his son, but his wife and three girls couldn't 
make it as the youngest in the McClaren family 
is just four days old. 
—PHILIP P. MARTIN. JR. 

Soutiiern Colorodo 
Tile Notre Dame Club of Southern Colorado recently held their second monthly luncheon in Colorado Spring, Colorado. Present at the meet­ing were REV. JEROME J. HEALY, WILLUM 
J. DONELAN, JR., *52, ALBERT J. THO.MAS, *49, DR. JA.MES A. JOHNSO.N, LT. COL. E. 
J. THEISEN. USAF. CAPT. J. P. GAUGHAN, USAF, DON ALEXANDER, JR., '29, a\PT . 
C. V. CRLMMINS. '41, USAF, M.VJOR P. W. BROWNFIELD. *41, US.\F, LT. COL. J. F. WIMSATT. USAF, JAMES P. ABBOTT, *47, and LOUIS HAEFILE. a present student. 
A later meeting was held at the Top of the Town restaurant In Pueblo. An imprcsiivc num­ber of members and wives was present, thanks to some who traveled as far as seventy-five mile$ to attend. A social gathering an-I a deli­cious dinner preceded the meeting. 7*here was nomina.ion and approval of five honorary mem­bers. These were: John R. Blunt, Mayor of Colorado Springs; Father Holland, Representative of the Bishop of Pueblo; Monsignor Walsh, Pueblo, Colorado; Monsignor Kerr, La Junta, Calorado; George Strakc, member of the Lay Trustees of Notre Dame, and part-time resident of Colorado Springs. 
—JAMES P. ABBOTT 

Soutli Jersey 
Club acti\ity picked up sharp!y, as might be expected, with the coming of September and football season. In ercst centered around the Penn-Notre Dame game to be p!ayed in Phila­delphia on November 7th and the annual raffle of football tickets. 
The Club was able to finance the purcliase of a block ol Penn tickets by obtaining a loan from the local bank. Rules for their distribution and resale were set up at the Augus. meeting and application forms were mailed out to all names on the Club roster. Needless to say, tlie tickets went like wildfire. Proceeds of the ticket sale, as well as the raffle, arc slated for the Club's Scholarship Fund. 
An official club roster in booklet form was cent to all members during the month of August. Everyone seemed very pleased with its format. 
Notre Dame men of the Toledo vicinity who instructed youths in the fundamentals of foot­ball. The group includes ND i^tids who arc coaching in Toledo and also present members of the Irish squad. 
but what really took the cake is that it dtd not cost the Club a cent to put out. In fact, a small amount of profit was made on it. Tlie returns from several ads wlucli appeared in the booklet more than defrayed the expense of putting it out. It is hoped the issuing of a roster will be made an annual affair as it contributes strongly towards binding a club together. 
Plans are undcrtvay for the annual Communion breakfast to be held in December. Why not start thinking now about attending it? This is the one truly spiritual get-together of the Club. Don't miss it! 
—MATT J. a\MPANELL.V, '49, Secy.-Treas. 
Spokane 
"Afan of tlie year" honors for the Notre Dame Chtb of Spokane, Wash., were recently awarded to VINCENT P. SLATT, '42. Club officers were also elected for the coming year and the results were as follows: 
President: FRANK HERRON, '33. 
Vice Pres.: FRANCIS FLANNERY, '31. 
Secretary: ROBERT ROTCHFORD, '49. 
Treasurer: EDWARD BETHKE, '28. 
St. Louis 
St. Louis is extremely proud of its contingent of 25 freshmen at the University, largest in the city's history. A splendid luncheon for them and their fathers, together with the present students, our officers and board of directors and ::cliolar­ship committee was given early in September. GEORGE CONVY, *43, very ably ser\cd as chairman, and wonderful talks were ^ivcn by PHIL HIGGINS, JACK GRIFFIN, '39, and FATHER REEVES, '20, Club chaplain. A vcr^* entertaining picnic was recently staged with DAN REARDON. '52, and JOHN HIGGINS actinff as co-chairmen. JOE GOLABOV'SKI, '31, VINCENT FEHLIG. '34, and JACK SULLIVAN, '39, all past prexies, masterminded the Georgia Tccli-Nolrc Dame football trip anJ dcscr\e recog­nition of cver>'one in the Club. 
—WARD DRISCOLL 
Tidewater 
The Notre Dame Club of Tidewater threw a party for one of Notre Dame's NROTC units this past summer. Refreshments were ser%'cd and the welcome was readily rt-ceived by the unit stationed at Norfolk. 
The club has also planned a "football special" to be run to the Notre Dame-North Carolina game. At press time some one hundred tickets Iiad been sold, so the event was iwdot>btcdly a Imge success. 
The regularly scheduled monthly meeting was held Sept. 8th in the Pinecrest Hotel. Most of the evening was spent discussing the above mentioned "football special." After all of the formal business was handled, however, the mem­bers adjourned to a Uttlc "social hour' to talk over things in general. 
—HARRY McKNIGHT, Secy. 


Toledo 
Tills fall in conjunction with the CYO of Toledo, the No:rc Dame Club sponsored a Foot­ball Clinic for the vouths of tlie city. Coaches PAT McCARTY and DAN MODAK of Central CatlioHc Higli, along with four members of this year's squad, namely, DICK KELLER, DON BUCCI, DICK SZYM.\NSKI and TOM Mc-HUGH, presented fundamentals of the same to the children. JOHN O. CELUSTA, '50, was chairman of the Notre Dame group. 
The Toledo Club also sponsored a trip to South Bend for the Georgia Tech game on October 24ih. BILL AIURTAGH, M9, was chairman of the event, and he said there were five hundred strong from the city that made the trip. 
Earlier in the fall a smoker, under the chair­mansliip of THOM^\S KIRSCHNER, M9, was held at the Hillcrest, with the new students and their fathers as guests of the Alumni. 
—JOHN O. CELUSTA, '50 
Tulsa 
Tlie special train project to the Oklahoma game in Norman, Okla., was successfully com­pleted by the Notre Dame Club of Tulsa. DON FLYNN, '47, was instrumental in handling the detailed and difHcult job of accommodating over 600 persons on the train. 
Although the final figures arc not in, the Scholarship Fund is expected to be enriched enough for a year's expenditures and possibly a little more. The club is planning a picnic some­time in October, and preparations are being made for the annual Cliristmas Dance on De­cember 26. 
—AV. N. SHEEHAN, Secy. 
¥fabash Valley 
Eighty-sLx members . and guests of the Notre Dame Club of the Wabash Valley attended the annual Universal Notre Dame Night, party. It seems MOE FERRTTER, '50, and his committee staged one of the finest UND night parties in the history of the club. JOHNNY JORDAN, '35, and CHARLEY CALLAHAN,.'38, were fea­tured on the program. BOB MOHLMAN, '28, and GEORGE O'CONNOR, '41, also pUyed key roles in making the night a success. 
TED MacDONALD, '42. informs us if someone doesn't claim that handsome Notre Dame banner left at the party mentioned ^ove it will coon adorn the west wall of his Kttle boy's room. Seems it isn't too soon to start working on the class of '73. 
The regular monthly lunch was held October 7th in the Blue Room of the Bohemia Restaurant in the Lahr Hotel. 
Washington, D. C. 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Washington, D. C, this summer held their annual retreat at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C. Retreat Master was FATHER REGIS O'NEILL,' '34, and a fine percentage of the club participated in the event. 
At their first fall meeting, held at the Shera­ton-Carlton Hotel, the club had as their eminent honored guest of the evening Senator Joseph McCarthy. An evening of chatter and refresh­ments was enjoyed by the group. 
The Irish Green Party turned out to be a fine a/Tair. Dubbed the ''fearless foursome" V7ce­Presidcnt NLxon. FRANK LEAHY, MOOSE KRAUSE and JOE LaFORTUNE informed us they had a delightful time. The affair was neatly handled by chairman AVILLIAM DENNING, '50, and his committee VAL DEALE, '39, HOWIE SCHOLLENBERG, SEVERIN BECK, '16. and GAY HAAS, '29. The affair was attended by over seventy-five persons and doubly enjoyed as an outing for the golfers and the non-golfers alike. 
The family picnic %vaa also enjoyed this past summer. Gomes ranging from sack races to volley-ball were included. 
At the meetins; of Oct. 8th, the- club held its annual Football Drawing. 
—JAMES M. CORCORAN, M.D., iVes. 
Western Washington 
The Notre Dame Club of Western Washington recently enjoyed a theatre party at which they attended the comedy hit "Miranda," presented by the University of Washington School of Drama. The entire theatre was reserved and many mem­bers and their guests attended the delightful production. 

Wiiliamsport 
TIic ^Villiamsport ND Club has re-elected WIL­LL\M R. DO\VNS, '10, of Jersey Shore, as president. Now a retired master mechanic with the New York Central Railroad, Mr. Downs ivas ­a football and baseball luminary at Notre Dame after the turn of the century. JACK WILL-IhfANN, '40, continues to be overburdened as secretary-treasurer, and HARRY J. KRIMM, '28, is the vice president. . 
Plans now are being made for the second an­nual Christmas party at which the local ND students are guests of the club. Last year the event, addressed by the REV. W% R. LYONS, '44, was highly successful. 
This club also is promoting the chance sale: of sue tickets for the Penn game, and it is hoped that the results will enable the club to make another gift to the University Foundation. A new member has been added to the club with the transfer of Leo Nolan, of Sayre, to thts city. 
During the summer President Downs headed a four-man delegation to a joint meeting of Central Pennsylvania ND Clubs at Wilkes-Barre where President JOHN H. NEESON, '35, and JIM ARMSTRONG, '25, were guest speakers. Mak­ing the trip from Wiiliamsport were Jack Will­mann and Joe Orso, Jr., a senior law student at ND, and Jim Gibbons, a sophomore. 
—JACK ^VILLMANN 
November-December, 1953 
Deaths 
SAMUEL S. STRAUSS, '00, of New York 

City, died this past summer. WILLUM P. GLASHEEN, '01, of Chicago, 
lirHff^:


Mm^^^^^MM^t 
111., died recently. 
Engagements 

MUs Elbabeth ^tusanIe and ROBERT K. GRIFFIN, '43. Miss Annr-Dillon Cunr and E. ROBERT DALTON, '-19. MUs Mary Lois Dcrmody and ROBERT J. TEUSCHER, '50. Miss Mary Louise Broi%-n and THO^L^S JOHN AUCHTER, -50. Miss Isabel Doron and JOSEPH M. FAL­LON, '50. Miss Jane Patrida Farliiy and EDWARD JO­SEPH VAN TASSEL, '51. Miss KathrvTi Barrj- and HENRY AMBROSE McCOR.MACK, '52. Miss Shirly Jean Bains and RICfLARD D. HARDIN, '52. Xfiss Helen T. Negrcj- and JOHN P. LONG, •52. M'ss Jean Ann Brcnnan and A. PAUL AN­THONY, '53. 
Marriages 

Mbs Esther Catherine O'Donnell and LEO JAMES POWERS, '25, Chicago, 111., July 19. Miss Elisalvth Marvin Callan and ARTHUR 
A. SANDUSKY, '36, Loudonville, N. Y. 
Miss Kalhr>-n Jnan Weidman and EDWARD KENNETH McNEVIN, '42, Baraboo. Wis., Sept. 26. 
.Miss Jean Haves and DR. JAMES F. MUR­RAY, '43, BrooIcl>-n, N. Y. 
Miss Ann Patricia MacEachem and JOHN EMMETT O'BRIEN, '48. Nevv Roehelle, N. Y., Sept. 19. 
Miss Lorraine Radant and HE.VRY DELA­CENSERIE, '48, Sept. 5. 
Miss Ka'hcrinc Mary Drislane and JOHN TALBOT ENGUSH, '49, Averill Park, N. Y., Aug. 22. 
Miss Mary Shannon Dooley and Dr. ALBERT JOSEPH MOTZEL, JR., '49, Florence, VTa., Oct. 10. 
Miss Ann Uhry and EDWARD M. ABRAMS, '50, Atlanta, Ga., Oct. 11. Miss Florence Marie Robbins and KOBERT RALPH DOBSON, '50, 1.05 Angeles, Cal., Aug. 8. 
Miss Mary Ann Smith and ^TCRNER WIL­LIAM SCHWAHN, '50, South Bend, Oct. 4. 
}h(iss Mary Carolyn Fuchtman and JAMES T. JOHNSTON, '50, LauTence%ilIe, 111., July 25. 
Miss Doris Antonellis and HUGH LOUIS KENNEDY, '51, West Quincy, Mass., Aug. 15. 
Miss Patrida J. Wood and GEORGE J. JAN­SEN, '51, Altoona, Pa., Feb. 14. 
Miss Muriel Irene Flanagan and RICHARD DUDLEY CULLEN, '51, Port Arthur, Texas, Sept. 5. 
Miss Margaret Hidi and BILL GALLAGAN, '51, Car»vood, N. J., June 20. 
Miss Imogenp Thcresc Ma>T and THOMAS J. CRAIG, '52, Ll-nbrook, N. Y., Aug. 1. 
Miss Elizabeth Gail and JAMES JOSEPH MORRISON, '52, PottKiKe, Pa., Aug. 29. 
Miss Mary Alycc Spiller and ROBERT A. STEWART, '52, Seattle, Wash., July 25. 
Miss Barbara Thcresc May and JOHN ROB­ERT MORAN, '52, Denver, Colo., Aug. 8. 
Miss Joan Marie Houlahan and Ensign ED­WARD A. McGRATH, JR., '52, Mount Vernon, 
N. Y., Sept. 19. 
>Iiss Roberta Ann HolTnian and WILLIAM ED­WARD KERWIN, '53, Baldwin, L. I., Aug. 29. 
Miss Joan Nelson RickofT and RAYMOND T. DUNCAN, '53, Su Louis, Mo., June 24. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Births 

Col. and Mrs. JOHN C. SHIVELY, '31, a daughter, ^fary Susan, Aug. 1. Mr. and Mrs. H. PHILIP SHEAN, '31, a son, Gregory Francis, June 25. Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR BECVAR, '33, a son, Bruce Robert, June 22. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. KILMURRY, '35, a daughter, Maureen Ann, July 7. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH KRUPA, '37, a son, AVarrcn Clemens, Sept. 12. Mr. and Mrs. F. ARTHUR MULHERN, '38, a son, Timothy, Aug. 10. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN O'CONNOR, '38, a daughter, Nancy, Sept. 30. .Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. MILLER, JR., '39, a son, John Joseph III, Sept. 13. Mr. and Mrs. CLARK VOLBERDINC, '39, a son, Tliomas Martin, Sept. 1. Mr. and Mrs. JULIAN R. PLEASAN^TS, '39, a son, Michael Edward, Oct. 5. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL M. MORRISON, '40, a daughter, Helen Edwards, June 4. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT G. MOLIN, '40, a daughter, Mary Carroll, July 14. Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE S. GEISSLER, '41, a daughter, Teresa Miriam, Oct. 3. Mr. and Mrs. T. F. BANIGAN, JR., '42, a son, John Thomas, April 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS A. MORRISON, '42, a daughter, Mary Eleanor, June 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. HARRY J. McKNIGHT, JR., 
•43, a son, Harry J. Ill, Aug. 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. WALLACE P. CHRISTMAN, '44, a son, Michael Ryan, June 10. 
Dr. and Mrs. VLNCENT T. MURPHY, '45, a son, Vincent T. Jr., July 27. 
Dr. and Mrs. JOHN GUTHRIE, '45, a ton, Joseph Seatty, July 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS J. KOWABKI, '46, a daughter, Marijanc, Sept. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. MARK J. BANNON, '47, a son, Mark Joseph, Jr., Aug. 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. LYNN R. BRYAN, '47, a son, Kelly Damian, June 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. JACK MYERS, '47, a daughter, Annette Frances, May 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. RUDOLPH J. ANDERSON, JR., '47, a son, Rudolph III, Aug. 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL J. BRACKEN, '48, a son, Michael Joseph, Ocu 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. CORWTN S. CLATT, '48, a ion, Barry Wendell, June 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROY B. LAUGHLIN, '48, a daughter, Ann Thcresc, June 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. SCHOUTEN, '48, a son, Michael, May 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT TAR\'ER, '49, a son, Robert, Jr., July 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE E. FLE.M.MING, JR., '49, a son, Michael Francis, July 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. BRUCE HARLAN, '49, a son, Robert Bruce, Oct. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE C. ROMANO, '50, a daughter, Patricia Ann, July 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. LOUIS & DAUGHERTY, '51, a daughter, Luann Catherine, ScpL 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. \TNCENT P. GODDARD, '51, a son, Joseph XHncent, Oct. 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. E. V. O'MALLEY, '51, a daughter, Mary Margaret, Aug. 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. VICTOR B. KROEGER, JR., '52, a son, Mark Louis, April 21. 
REV. MATHIAS J. OSWALD, '01, died August 6 at Notre Dame, Ind. MARK B. FALVEY, '12, died this past sum­mer in Kokomo, Ind. 
WALTER D. ROWL/\NDS, '15, Governor of the Notre Dame Foundation in Florida, died October 20th in St. Francis Hospital, Miami Beach. Mr. Rowlands helped to acti\-ate the Miami alumni club and served as chairman of its board of directors in planning club programs. His work with the Foundation, particularly as 
MR. ROWLJVNDS, '15 

Chairman of Miami since he had been appointed 
Governor only several months ago, was most cfTec­
tivc. He was named *Man of the Year* by the 
^fiami Club in 1951. 
At the time of his death ^fr. Rowlands u*as 
president and general manager of ^tajo^ Appli­
ances, Inc., in Miami, Jacksonville and Tampa. 
His career ^vas \'aried and interesting. During 
\Vorld AVar I, Afr. Rowlands was a pilot in the 
Air Corps. He ^vas owner and driver of "The 
Comet,*' one of the famous early racing cars in 
this countr}'. During World War II he sen.'cd in 
the Coast Guard Reserve. 
A few weeks brforc his death >fr. Rowlands was baptized in the Catholic faith by the REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, OS.C, president of Notre Dame. Mr. Rowlands is sur\*ived by his ivife Irene, a son Dan, *50, and a daughter, Nancy. 
DR. EUGENE F. ROONEY, class of '19, died in the lalter part of July of a heart attack at his stmimcr home in East Northport, L. I. Di­rector of pediatrics at Miscricordia Hospital, New York City, and a past president of that institu­tion, he is survived by his wife, a daughter, and three sons. 
GERALD J. CLEARY, *21, of Escanaba, Mich., died of a heart attack July 12. He was a prominent upper Michigan Democrat and man­ager of an oil distributing company. He is sur­vived by hu widow and four sons. 
J. HOWARD HALEY. '24, of Smith Bend, Ind., died July 26. He is survived by his widow and a brother, J. ARTHUR HALEY. *26. Direc­tor of Public Relations at Notre Dame. 
MARTIN J. KOEBEL. *24, died of a heart attack while visiting in BnfTalo on April 10. Survi\-ing arc liis widow and a daughter. 
GEORGE G. WARD, LL.B.. *25. of Chicago. III., died there on July 30. He was District Manager of the Prudential Insurance Company of America. 
DANIEL W, McCLUSKEY, LL.B. *27, of Janesvilie, ^Vis., died November 26,- 1952. 
GEORGE G. O'BRIEN, '28, died August 28 in Tucson, Arizona. Former co-ov%'ncr of the Roscland Pharmacy, he leaves his widow, parents, a son, brother and sister. 
THOMAS J. GRIFFIN, '29. passed away July 27 in Kno-tvillc, Tcnn. FRANCIS D. SLO.VN, '29, of Pontiac. Mich,, died during the summer of 1953. 
JOSEPH J. McCORMICK, LL.B., '30, of De­troit, Mich., a member of the U. S. Conciliation and >fediation Service, died September 22 after a long illness. He is survived by his widow. 
CH/\RLES J. MANNIX,- '31, died July 14. He was publir relations man for the Union Wallpaper & Paint Co. in Bethcsda, Md. While at the University he earned a monogram in base­ball. He is sur\'ivcd by his widow, two cliildren, a brother and a sister. 
ROBERT L. NEYDON, '31. of Detroit, Mich., passed away in July. 
SISTER ^^ARY ST. LEONA THORNTON, '33. died July 26 in St. Louis, Mo. 
JAMES G. MUELLER, '33, of Phtshnrfih, Pa., was killed In an auto accident Srpicmber 26. Survi\ing arc his ividow and five diildren. Reception in honor of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CS.C, at Oklahoma City. L. to R.: 
CIL\RLES R. FEHR, '35. perished August 4 Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, CS.C, Father Hesburgh, Bob McFarland, *42, President of Notre in a fire at his home in Spring Valley, III., which 
Dame Club of Oklahoma City, Johnston Murray, Governor of Oklahoma, and Most Rcv. 
also claimed the lives of his wife and daughter. 
Eugene J. McGuinness, Bishop of Oklahoma City and Tulsa. 
ROBERT E. PEACHEY, '49, of Mishawaka, Ind., died this past summer. FREDERICK C. TRACY. '49. was killed in an auto accident near Cleveland, Ohio. September 
23. He is survived by his father and two 
, brothers. Your prayers arc requested for GEORGE _ ANDREAV T. HERNON, '52, of Forest Hills, BEARDSLEE, '00, who has recently been ill. 1914 
L. I., killed on Okina\%'a in June. Wc recently received a letter from P. W. JOSEPH J. CONWELL, JR.. '53. of Greens-
O'GRADY, '00, who is E.xecutivc Director of the Ron O'Neal burg, Pa., died at Quantico Marine Base the 
headquarters SlafT of the Confraternity of Pilgrims 1350 N. Black Oat Dr. latter part of July after suffering a sunstroke. 
of Ste. Anne de Bcauprc. The organization is South Bend, Ind. He is survived by his parents. 
concerned with Catholic action. CHARLES L. VAUGHAN was one of the panel JAMES R. MOR.\TH. '53. of Herkimer, N. Y.. 
members in the recent Second District Law In­
was killed in an auto accident August 15. He is stitute of the Indiana State Bar Association.. 
survived by his parents and a brother. 
Sympathy 1915 
James E. Sanford ALBERT T. MERTES, '09, on ihe death of 1429 W. Farnigut Ave his wife, August 7. Chicago 40. 111. FRANK R. LOCKARD, "W, on the death of 
Iiis w-ife. DR. GEORGE N. SHUSTER, M5, was recrnUy awarded the Nicholas Murray Butler Silver 
J. RALPH CORYN, '22, on the death of his Medal. Dr. Shuster is prcsentV president of father April 10. 

Hunter College. The medal, named for the for­EUGENE KENNEDY, "22, on the death of mer president of Cohimbia, is prrsenred annually his mother. 1911 either in silver or bronze to "the graduate of EUGENE SMOGAR, '22, on the death of his Fred L. Steers Columbia University who has during the year mother June 10. 103 S. LaSalle St. preceding shown the most competence in philos* Chicago 3, in. ophy or in educational theory, practice or ad­
J. FR,\NK .\HLES, '22, on the death of his ministration." 

mother at the age of 92 years. 
Dr. Shuster received the award as "recogni­JAMES R. .MEEHAN, '24, on the death of tion of a scholarly, effective and imaginative 
his father, Sept. 3. 1913 
educational and sodal leader both in his own JOHN P. itcGOORTY, JR., '24, on the death Paul R. Byrne college and wider community, distinguished writer of liis father in August. O'Shaughnessy B!dg. on problems of education and society, and ROM.\N FELDPAUSCH, '2S, on the death of liis Notre Dame, Ind. staimch exponent of intellectual responsibnity and 
wife, mother of PARKER T., '53, and RICHARD 
academic freedom." KAYHILL, '51, October 16. CLYDE BROUSSARD is one of nine outstand­.\fAURrCE P. WELSH, '26, on the death of hii 
ing Catholics of ihc Diocese of Galveston who wife who died in September. 
has been named for investiture as Knight of the Holy Sepulchre. The order is an honor of high 
PROF. ANDREW J. BOYLE, '28, on the 1916 
rank fur tlic Catholic laity and is conferred by 
recent death of his wife. 
the Pope in Rome for outstanding service to HAROLD E. DUKE, '30, yOSMAS E. DUKE, the Churcli in many iicldx. in a letter from 
Graver F. Miller '33, and CHARLES W. DUKE, '38, on the death Clyde, he mrntioned he had recently seen BOB 612 WiscDiuin Ave. of their father, August 2. "POSSUM" PAINE. Bob was a football mono­
Racine. ^Visconsin JAMES L. WALSH, JR., '30, on the death of gram man back in *09. and if any of you fellows hu mother. 
of his time would like to contact him. his ad­dress ii as follows: 4614 Montrose Blvd.. Houston 
WILLIAM J. KENNEY, '34, on the death of 1917 
6. Texas. 
his father in August. 
Edward J. McOsker 

C. BYRON H/VYES, LL.B., '13. is associated 
FR.\NK J. MCDONOUGH, JR., '4I, JAMES 
2205 Briaiwood Rd. 

in a partnership with his son in the practice of 
c. MCDONOUGH, '44, JOHN M. MCDON­
aevdand Heights 18, Ohio OUGH, '48, and LT. ROBERT E. McDON-law at 906 Gettlc Building, Fort AVaync, Indiana. OUGH , '52, on the death of their fatlicr who died on May 13. 

1918 
HARRY C. WRIGHT, '43, on the death of his %%'ifc in August. George E. Harbert 
P^^^K^^^^g 
lOa N. Main Su Sycamore, III. 

ALBERT S. O'SULLIVAN, LL.B., *18, is Cir­
1900 llpREUNlONfl 
WILLIAM G. .FERSTEL, BSC. '00. and cuit Jiirlgc nf the 17th Judicial Circuit with JAMEa L. FERSTEL, LL.B., '50. announce the diambcn in Belvedere. Illinois. 
^^^ 
remo\*ai of the law offices of Ferstel. Snkal and RAY.MOXD \VHIPPLE, of Jolict, Illinois, re­
W^^J^M^E^s 

Ferstel. to Suite 1139, Ul West Washington cently underwent a throat operation in St. Street, Chicago 2, Illinois. Luke's Hospital. Chicago. 
November-December, 1953 
Ralph \V. Bergman 1609 N. Jefferson Ave. St. Louis, Mo. 
Dan W. Duffy 1101 NBC Building ae%-eland 14, Ohio 

WILLIAM J. SHERRY of Tulsa is chancellor of the Western American Lieutenancy of the Knights of the Holy Scpulclire. Tlic order is an honor of high rank for the Catholic laity and is conferred by the Pope in Rome for outstanding 5cr\*ice to the Church in many iields. 
LEO L. GILL has been appointed manager of the Technical Sales Department of Harbison-Walker Refractories Company. He will maintain headquarters in the company's home offices in Pituburgh, Pa. 
1922 
Gerald A. Ashe 39 Cambridge Su Rochester 7, N. Y. 

We offer our s^'mpathy to those of our class -u-ho have lost parents by death in the recent past, and we ask you to review the listings in the *'S>Tnpathy** column for the names of the deceased. Eternal rest grant unto them, O Lord. 
Sunday, June 14, u-as a grand and glorious day in Soutli Bend for our class. On that par­ticular day, two priest-sons of '22 men were privileged to celebrate their first Solemn Masses —FATHER JAMES L. SHILTS, C.S.C., M9, and Father Bernard J. Mahoncy. Wc surely do tender 'our congratulations and best wishes to these priests and we felicitate the proud parents —MR. AND MRS. WALTER SHILTS of South Bend and MRS. JULIA MAHONEY of Austin, Texas. LEO MAHONEY, parent father, died in 1935. FATHER MAHONEY'S Mass xvas in St. Patrick»s Church and FATHER SHILTS' first Solemn Mass' was in St. Joseph's Church. Since the Masses were said almost concurrently, it Was not possible to be present for both Classes in ihcir entirety. The Masses were Vcr>' well at­tended by scores of friends from the Soutli Bend area, and by schoolmates and classmates of the parents of the new priests, including GENE SMOGAR and wife, PAUL PFOHL, GEORGE WENEGHAN and wife, and JIM MARTIN of Chicago, PAUL CASTNER of St. Paul, and RALPH CORYN of Molinc, III. WALTER SHILTS, parent of FATHER SHILTS, has been on the Notre Dame faculty for 30 years and presently is in charge of the department of Civil Engineering. 
Twin brothers W. F. and W. D. STUHL­DREHER, sons of our good classmate friend WALTER, were graduated with B.S. degrees in Commerce from Notre Dame in June. Both have been commissioned in the Navy, one now assigned to a destroyer based at Norfolk and the other attending. Naval Supply School at Bayonne, New Jersey. Right now wc can bring you up to date on the rest of the Stuhldreher children by men­tioning that the youngest boy (weighing about 
200} is now a Freshman at ND. Last fall, he was regular center on the Cathedral High city championship football team in Indianapolis. Two Stuhldreher daughters are married, and living in Indianapolis. One is married to an ND boy— BOB KESSING, '49. 
CHARLES M. DOUGHERTY, '26 

A graduate of the,/l926 class^ Charles Dougherty Has'.recently re­signed his j'ob as administrative officer of the Philadelphia regibn. Office of Price Stabilization, to" take over as chief of the cit\''s budget bureau. 
Doughert)', a specialist-in investment company securities, was engaged in budget and fiscal work as. administra­tive officer of the Federal Housing Ad­ministration in Philadelphia from 1948 to 1951 before taking up a similar post with OPS. He held a like job with the Immigration and Naturalization Serv­ice of the Department of Justice from 1941 to 1947. From 1932 to 1940 he was -with the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles at Harrisburg, as chief ac­countant and as director of the bureau. 
When his task %vith the city of Phil­adelphia is completedj Dougherty plans to return to the Federal Housing Ad­ministration in the Quaker City as an executive officer. 
JOHN R. CORYN, 11, was graduated in Law from ND in June. 
Wc are indebted to ARCH WARD*S Chicago Tribune column for news telling us that HUNK ANDERSON'S son Bill was recently graduated from Duke University a Phi Beta KappaL 
JIM JONES, Rocliester, N. Y.. attorney, has a son serving as page in the House of Represen­tatives in Washington, D. C. 
Our congratulations and best wishes to CLAR­ENCE "PAT" MANION, dean emeritus of the ND College of Law for the great honor accorded him by President Eisenhower in selecting him chairman of the committee on Intergovernmental relations composed of 25 members. Purpose of the committee is to try to efTcct monetary* sav­ings in cases where federal and state expenditures are overlapping, and to look into the matter of distribution of powers between federal and state governments. 
LEO (JERRY) MAHONEY, brother of Father Bernard Mahoncy, previously mentioned in this column, was married to Bridget Huss in Fair­mont, Minnesota, last spring. Tlic Mahoney ncvvl>-\vcds are now living- in ...Tulsa,--Oklahoma." where Leo is teacher at Cascia -Prcp, and head coach of football. 
TO.M McaVBE tells-us thht FRED GL.\HE is still with Wilson 'and Col;, dealers in sports goods, but ' no\v"-.'/Is'^ located in Tennessee. Son TO.MMY McCABE was.-at Quanticb for si.x weeks for tniining. with the Marines in the sum­mer. Hc;go^ ' on active; diity with the Marines after completion '.bf>'his "••course at ND, unless changes arc 'madc';.duc to cased Korean situation. 
We. received: a fine letter from AL &\RROLL telling ^us that he greatly enjoyed the reading of FATHER GEORGE FISCHER'S "Nostalgia" in a re£en|i number of the Alumnus. Al also reports that he'- heard two splendid talks in his newly* 
-adopted-city of Rockford by classmate DOCTOR 
•EDDIE /VNDERSON of Holy Cross College on 
-training of young men, and DR. "PAT" Mf\NION oU' necessity of protecting our constitutional rights. 
- Al's new address is 711 North Highland Ave., Rockford. 
Donald M. Drake Co. of Portland, Oregon, has been selected to erect a teaching hospital for University of Oregon Medical School at a cost of approximately $5,000,000. DONALD DRAKE is a son-in-law of our beloved CHARLIE HIRSCHBUHL, now deceased, and Pat Hirsch­buhl, ^i-idow of Charlie. This was the largest building permit ever issued by the city of Portland. 
DANNY COUGHLIN of Waseca, Minnesota, attended the football game in Minneapolis in August between the Green Bay Packers and New York Gian'js. He watched DOCTOR HANK AT­KINSON of Green Bay apply the arnica and bandages as needed. 
ROMAINE REICHERT of Minneapolis has a son attending ND now who is considered one of the top flight sailboat skippers on Lake Harriet in Minneapolis. 
Hearty congratulations to AVALTER STUHL­DREHER of Indianapolis, newly elected vice-president of A. G. Becker & Co., Inc., the Chi­cago investment banking firm. Walter's entire business career of 25 years with the Becker Co. has been in Indianapolis, and for the last eight years was Indianapolis Office Manager. 
DAN YOUNG In far-away Chile wrote us a long letter wherein he mentioned the location and doings of almost everybody in the Class of *22. Dan, in his absence, has been correspond­ing with most of these men, and has given us some up-to-date data which wc are pleased to re­cord. JERRY JONES Is City Attorney In Dixon, Illinois. HUNK ANDERSON is with Production Steel Co. located in Broadview, Illinois. ED BAILEY'S son, Joe, is in the Seminar>- of the Holy Trinity Fathers in Alabama. AL RHOM­BERG has opened his own consulting engineering office in Dubuque. AL SCOTT'S brother, GEORGE, is now a Monsignor and Pastor of Mary Star of the Sea in San Pedro, California. EGON CARL VON MERVELDT is Construc­tion Superintendent for the Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company. Many thanks to you, Dan. 
1923 
Louis V. Bruggner 2165 River^de Dr. South Bend, Ind. 

WILLIAM T. FITZGERALD of Evansville, Indiana, is the new president of the Indiana Bar Association. He Is a former city attorney, state senator, judge and past president of the Indiana Judges Association. 
FRANK STUART Is now associated with the Dolan Steel Company of Bridgeport, Connecticut. He is the company's representative in Northeast Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Vermont. 
30 YEAR 
REMNIIIN^ 
JUNE I7-J2-I3 

1924 
Rn*. .Thomas KcIIy^ C^.C. Ca\'anaugh~ Hall 
•Notre Dame; Iiid. 

1925 
, . John P. Hurley­1218 City Park A\x; ;• Tokda, Ohio , 

FRANK STEEL informs us of- the death of FRANK D. CELEBREEZE who held,the office of Municipal Judge in Cleveland. 
A tliird generation student qualifying, for a degree at Notre Dame is the son" of HENRY WURZER. Henry's falher graduated in .'98, and young Wurzcr has just begun his first year. 
1926 
John J. R>-an 2434 Grccnicaf Ave. Chicago 45, III. 

Some years back, BILL DOOLEY suggested' that I lake on the job of Class Secretary. It is a good thing he backs up his original idea for if it weren't for news from him this column would be skimpy in this issue. 
A recent card from Bill reads "Noticed some familiar '26 names in the June Commencement program this year. Here they are: JAMES A. RON.\N, Chicago, JAMES F. FL/\HERTY, Har:­ford. Conn., GEORGE H. FERGUSON, Lorain, Ohio, PARKER T. FELDPAUSCH, Hastings, Mich., EDWARD J. DUGG/VN, South Orange, 
N. J.. JOHN F. GELSON, Summit, N. J., PAUL J. HARRINGTON, JR., Mountainside, N. 
J. No doubt there were some other *26crs with* sons finishing in 1953 but my aging eyes missed them in the (comparatively) small print. TER­ENCE M. CAREY, Lancaster, Wis., is scheduled to finish in August, at end of summer school." 
Your secretary bumped into FRED FORHAN who has returned to Chicago and the }{onie Office of the Continental Insurance Company. In spile of bclns in the same building with him, I haven't seen him since then. Also bumped into JOHN GRIFFIN who told me that GEORGE DOLMAG E was moving his office from Phoenix to some other town m Arizona or New Mexico. 
Passed JIM KELLEGHAN in the middle of LaSallc Street a week or so a^o bu haven't checked with Jim to find out if he knew who the guy in uniform was. TIic Army had me back on duty for a couple of weeks as is usual each year. 
WALTER TROHAN and his wife were Injured in an auto accident near Youngstown, Ohio, on September 22. Trohan, who Is Washington cor­respondent for the Chicago Tribune, and his wife were returning from South Bend where they had just enrolled their son as a sophomore a. Notre Dame. 
Hope that at some of the football games this fall, v-c will sec some '26ers and thus get a little news for the next Issue. 
1927 
Stc\'e Ronay 2829 App'etree Lane, South Bend, Ind. 

RICHARD L. HALPIN celebrated two anniver­saries recently. He celebrated his 25th anniver­sary wi.h the Commonwealth Edison Company of Chicago on July 13, and a week later his 50th birthday. 
JOHN J. LYONS, '29 

John J. Lyons, '29, has been ap­pointed a member of the Illinois Pa­
•
 role Board by Governor Stratton. He is the only Chicago representative on the. five-man board. 

•Since
 1947 John has served as As­sistant Judge of the Probate Court. He was admitted to the practice of law in. Illinois in 1930 and also holds membership in the Chicago^ and Amer­ican Bar Associations. In the 1948 primary election in Chicago he was unopposed as candidate for Commit­teeman of the 37th Ward and was elected again in April of 1952. John attended Loyola University for his pre­law training, and then graduated from the Notre Dame Law School. He is married and has one son, Ronald, nine years old. John has just been elected Superior Court Judge in Illinois. 


1928 
Louts F. Buckley 1253 N. Central Ave Chicago, 111. 

Massrs have been said for GEORGE G. 
O'BRIEN and TOM J. GRIFFIN whose deaths 
were reported in my September n=^vsIette^. 
The sister of LEO G. PAUL of Syracuse ad­
\ised mn that Leo has been confined in a mental 
institution since February, 1940. The doc ors 
diagnos'rd Paul's case as dementia praecox and 
hu prognosis has not been favorable since he 
was commit:ed. I assured Paul's sister that his 
many friends in the class would pray for his 
recovery. 
BOB GRANT and his wife, Margaret, made a. trip into the Middle East immediately following our reunion at the request of the Ainericaik. Christian Pa'estine Committee to see at first hand .he conflict there. They visited the refugee-camps both in the Ar ^ lands and in the new state of Israel. Both had a very pleasant stop in. Rome, including the privilege of a special audi­ence with the Holy Father, with . another stop­over in Istanbul before they got into he real problem itself in their visits in Lebanon, Syria, Jordan and Israel. Since his return Bob has had several speaking engagements to relate the story of the problem over there. 
HENRY DAVIS wrote from St. Mary's, W. Va.,. telling me how much he regretted missing the-reunion. He is with the Sterling Oil Division: there. He has a daughter who is in nurses* train­ing. Henry mentioned that my old roommate, JIM SEXTON, is still in T«as. Henry sees GEORGE SARGUS occasionally. He expressed great interest in the class family picture and sent me a picture of his daughter. 
DR. DAVE SOLOMON' also expressed his re­grets at being unable to attend the reunion in a. letter from Johnstown,' Pa., where he specializes, in gynecology and obstetrics. Dave has four-children with the oldest in college this year. He mentioned how much he would like to have seen a number of the fellows, such as MIKE RICK5>. BUD CALLAGY and PETE BEEMSTERBOER. 
Af:er waiting for a number of years, I was-pleasantly surprised to receive a letter from. DICK TRANT from Tucson, Ariz., where he is with the Mulcahy Lumber Co. As the result of an auto accident in which his \vUc was seriously injured, and his mother's death In Nebraska re­cently, it was impossible for Dick to return to> the reunion as planned. Dick has one son, age sixteen, who hopes to attend Notre Dame. He-. sees ELMER BESTON In Tucson. Dick inquired about BILL LEAHY and JLM CONMEY who-were back for the reunion. 
It was also good to hear from BOB CAPE3IUS who lives in Chicago and Is with the W. L. Stensgaard & Associates here. Bob's name should be added to the list of classmates with five children—four boys and one girl. I hope Bob will be with us for the 30th reunion. 
^Ve were all pleased to see BOB STRICKEL at '.he reunion since wc had not heard from him in a number of years. Bob lives at 4912 40th PI., Hyattsville, Md. Bob is with the Sun Life Insurance Co., hut due to a heart condition docs not work full time. Bob mentioned how much he enjoyed the reunion. 
I had the good fortune to visit the folloi^-ing classmates and their families during the summer: VINCE WALSH in Monticello, U.; JOHN CAR­ROLL in Springfield, III.; JOE HILGER in Co­lumbus, Ind., and FRANK DONOV/\N in Muske­gon, ^fich. I also see our new President FRANK . CREADON and WILLARD WAGNER regularly. Wc viewed some excellent reunion pictures with VINCE WALSH, his wife and son. Vince hai given these pictures to the class and they are being combined with those from ART DENCH­FIELD and o.hers Into a reunion reel by FRANK CREADON. The college graduations of his son and daughter interfered with JOHN CARROLL'S attendance at the reunion. John has four chQ> dren, Including a son who was graduated from Notre Dame la.st year. John is in the construc­tion business in Springfie.d. We talked over the reunion with JOE HILGER and his wife in Co­lumbus where Joe and his brother operate a very a tractive department store. Joe also has. four children. His son was preparing to attend the Boy Scout Jamboree in California at the time we were In Columbus. We had a good session with FRANK DONOVAN and his fam­ily in Muskegon. Mich., where Frank is President of the Kaydon Engineering Corporation. Frank's son, who was graduated from Notre Dame two years ago, is with Anaconda Copper Co. in )(us­kegon. His daughter was at St. Mar/s last year and his youngest son is at Notre Dame this year. Frank had the flu at the time of the reunion and regretted very much his Inability to attend. He will - be on hand in 1958. 
Our Vice President for the East, BILL CRO­NIN, reports that he has lunch with GEORGE CRONGEYER often. George is Administrative Assistant at the home ofiBce of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. in New York. George is still a bachelor. Bill mentioned that it broke George's 
Noy ember-December, 1953 27 
lieart to mtss the reunloD. Bill also adiiscd that ADRIAN LOPEZ is stili a rabid and enthusiastic member of the Class of *28, Adrian has a maga­zine publishing business of his own in Xc%*- York. Bill ad\-ised that HAROLD P. REYNOLDS of Chicago was appointed General Counsel of the Petroleum Administration wi:hin the Federal Gov­ernment and is now in Washington. He also added that Harold was married in August. Bill sees DR. JOHN FRANKLIN regularly. John in­formed Bill that ED TULLY has been in mari­time work and at sea most of the lime. Ed told John and Bill some interesting stories about running the Murmansk Blockade during the war. Ed i> married. I trust tlie men to whom Bill wiote in September for news will respond imme­diately if they have not done so to date. 
JACK CANIZARO, our Vice-President for the south, reports that he is waiting for replies to letters he WTOte to the men in his territory from whom we have not had news in some time. I trust you will send Jack some news for the next issue. 
A sister of ^^NCE WALSH's, Sister ^L Edna, O.P., told me that she .was entertained with a group of other nuns by JACK CANIZARO at his farm near Jackson, ifiss., where he raises prize cattle. Sister mentioned the fine job done by Jack in designing St. Dominic's Hospital in Jackson. 
Our ex-Treasurer, BERNIE CAREER, contrib­uted the following report for the benefit of our generous classmates: 
"I hate to admit ivhat seems to be failure but after the 25th reunion I found our class had a balance of $256.78 xvhich I turned over to our ne^v treasurer, JACK SHEEDY. By modem standards I should have left a deficit! 
"In approximately two years I collected $1180.30. Of tliis $15 went to Masses for the deceased and $908.52 to mailings, etc., promoting the reunion. 
"Services and materials worth three to four times the latter amount were donated however by a few members of the class and friends of theirs. Let me thank each person who contributed money or ser\-ice$ and express the hope they will do as well by my successor. 
"Everyone attending the reunion enjoyed it, I think. I had letten from DICK PARRISH and DICK GREENE telling me thev were glad the>­did so. Late in July I met JACK 'WINGERTER on the beach at Sea Girt and he was enthusi­astic in expressing his enjoyment of the reunion— particularly about meeting his old roommate, GUY LORANGER. Jack Is now building a new home in Spring Lake, N. J. 
"LARRY CULLINEY WTOte Inviting all the Garbers to visit his new home at 46 Vineyard Rd., North Haven, Conn. If Larry's larder can provide for us he must be prospering! Dorotliy and I met FRANK DUQUETFE recently at Mount Ktsco*s summer theater. Frank was sorry that too much business-traveling kept him from the reunion; he was to go Into the hospital soon for repairs on a, knee cartilegc. Expects It will improve Ms game about ten strokes." 
Thanks, Bcmle, for a job well done for the class, not only as treasurer, but as Chairman of Publicity for our reunion. I trust all of you have written orur new treasurer, JACK SHEEDY, at 1118 Farmers Bank Bldg., Pittsburgh 22, Pa. Jack advised me that he is receiving excellent response from the class to his plea for funds. Jack has a son at Notre Dame this year and a daughter at Dunbarton In Washington, D. C. 
LARRY \VINCERTER, President of the San Antonio Transit Co., will scr\'c as President of the American Transit Association for the coming year. This organization, with headquarters in New York City, is the national trade association for all the city street car and bus companies in the U. S. ai d Canada. Congratulations, Larry! Since this new job should require considerable travel, I trust >-ou wll keep me posted on the classmates >*ou meet. 
I noticed In the Minneapolis paper where JACK DOYLE did a great job as Chairman of the Holy Name rally held la June. JOHN LYONS is a Republican candidate for Superior Court Judge in Illinois. John became Repub­lican Ward Committeeman in Chicago in 1948, hai been a candidate for the ^luniclpal court and recently has scn-ed as an assistant judge of 
G. ROGER CAHANEY, '49 
George Roger Cahaney, a 1949 graduate, has been named new Exec­utive Secretary of the Catholic Press Association. He was introduced to the Association members at the nation­al convention in Atlantic City last summer. 
In announcing the selection for the postj Father Meehan, President of the Association, said, "We are greatly pleased to have a man with such an excellent background for the important post of Executive Secretary. The choice was difficult because of the many qualified candidates. We are certain Mr. Cahaney ^vill make many valuable contributions to the Cathofic Press Association." 
George was previously associated with the Fuller, Smith and Ross Ad­vertising Agency in Cleveland, and served as a member of the sales pro­motion staff of the General Electric Company. 
During the last ^var he served over­seas with the Ninth Air Force Head­quarters and is a native of Dennison, Ohio. 
the Probate Court. He was recently appointed to 
the State Parole Board in Illinois. 
HOWIE PHALEN and his wife attended » 
wedding of the daughter of JOE MURPHY, '27. 
Howie reports that after the wedding AUGIE GRAMS had a party for them ac the Grams' siunmcr home some ten miles north of LaCrosse. Howie recommended it as a wonderful place for a class reunion. 
I had a note from VINCE CARNEY this sum­mer from Mexico. Vincc's family spent the sum­mer there going to school. 
ART aVNTY, Vice-President for the West, will be in the French Bar of the Biltmore Hotel in Los Angeles, wliich is a small room just off the Biltmore Bowl, to greet members of the Class of *28 on Friday afternoon and evening before the Southern California game and after the same. Arrangements wIJJ be made to register the stop­ping place of the '28 men so they can get in touch with each other. 
My last newsletter prompted JUDGE JOHN CULLINAN to dash off a note extending his regrets at being unable to attend the silver "jamboree." He expressed the hope he Will be able to join us five years hence. John, as you know, is a judge of the Superior Court, State of Connecticut. 
ED McKEOWN tells mc that TOM (MICKEY) QUALTERS is located near Chicago with the Inland Steel Co. in labor relations work. Ywi will recall that Mickey was bodyguard for Presi­dent Roosevelt for a number of years. I saw Mickey in Boston a few years ago and encour­aged him to write a book on his experiences with F.D.R. JOHN HERBERT and I had a most Itttcrestins session w-iih him at that time. 
I am looking forward to hearing a talk by FATHER MARK J. FFFZGERALD, C.S.C., As­sociate Professor of Economics at Notre Dame, on "Obscr\'ation5 on Labor and Industry In Europe,** at an Institute on the Notre Dame campus sponsored by the Indiana Chapter of the International Association of Personnel in Em­ployment Security. I am also to speak at the institute. FATHER FITZGERALD, as you know, missed the reunion as he was in Europe this summer studying labor conditions. 
Your Class Secretary is entering a busy period noiv as I begin teaching an evening graduate class at Loyola University in addition to my regular work as Employment Security Represen­tative with the U. S. Dept. of Labor. I am also resuming my teaching at the Shcil School of Soaal Studies and the adult labor classes spon­sored by the Catholic Labor Alliance. I had to give up tlie latter teaching last year so I could devote more time to the reunion activities. I mention this so that you will be aware that I will not have the time available to solicit news for tills column such as I have done during the past few months by sending out over eighty per­sonal notes requesting news. PLEASE come to my assistance by voluntarily submitting class notes. 
It Is a pleasure to give you below an Interest­ing letter from our Vice President for the Mid­west, JOHN IGOE. John wrote from Columbui, Ohio, as follows: 
"It seenu a shame to keep you waiting until the last minute for this copy but reporters are generally depicted as disheveled, fag smoking hat wearers glancing furtively at clocks and typing wildly to make the 'deadline.' Mary lists me as disheveled so all I need is a Camel to make like a newspaper man. Sorry, Louie, and here is my assurance that I will Improve. 
"All reports I have had from our classmate* were full of praise for our Reunion. No doubt that topic will be fresh as a conversation piece until the *28ers are long bearded and doddering. It was a wonderful reunion and our Class has let a pattern that others may find it difRcuIt to emulate. 
"First oil after my return to the chore of 
making a li\ing was a chain letter from 
CHRISTY FLANAGAN. I sent my contribution 
to one of the farm owning Headlc>'s of Lexington, 
Kentucky, suh, and after a studied contemplation 
of my *sucker* list mailed the clialn to MAR­
TIN RINI, TOM LAVELLE, *DOC» FORGE, 
BOB KIRBY, and JACK CANIZARO. The net 
result was not a great increase In the Igoe bank 
roll but some welcome letters and .notes from 
the 'victims.' 
"MARTIN RINI w-r'ites: 'Ever since receiving 
your letter I've been debating whether or not to 
carry out the chain but it is contrary to postal 
regulations and I'm under oath to uphold the 
law so . Really enjoyed the reunion ' 
"BOB KIRBY writes: 'I must be a very re­sponsible business executive for yours is the sev­enth chain letter I've received in the past month. Good to hear from you and I have repeatedly stated our reunion week-end was ilie most cn­joj*able I have experienced. You reformed sots can't appreciate this but it now takes mc two weeks to get over one week-end and I must confess our icunion conclave was worth every himg over minute.' 
**TOM LAVELLE writes: 'Allow mc to thank you for permitting me to be included in your promising chain venture. Believe mc, I have been very choosy la selecting the recipients of my hve letters, have picked upstanding citizens, men of good judgment, men who will be eager as >-ou and I and Flanagan, bless him, to make a fat profit from this charitable and worthy ven­ture—BILL KIRWAN, JOHN DAVIS, JOHN LEITZINGER, JACK CANIZxVRO and that ster­ling freeholder PHIL CENEDELLA. My wife feels this thing will pay off and has started some lusty diarge accounts at the local stores. If it fails proper suits will be hied in Columbus, Ohio, and Port Arthur, Texas.* 
"JACK CANIZiVRO writes: *Boy, am I a popu­lar sucker. Yours is the third chain this week. 
•Wasn't our reunion a wonderful affair! Regards.' 
"A letter, too, from TOM TRAUGHBER ex­pressing thanks to the committees who made our reunion such a 'memorable affair,' and telling me that he and Buschmcycr were in fine fettle. 
"On a recent visit to Cleveland I stopped in for a chat with CHET RICE. Our wives were no doubt bored by our lengthy recalling of inci­dents, names and doings of the *28 class but Chet and I braved through the flow of icy stares and got everything wrapped up satisfactorily. ART DENXHEIELD had Mrs. Dcnchfield in the Cleveland Clinic before returning to his South American chores and he and Chet spent some wonderful hours reminiscing and singing the praises of the *28 reunion. Am glad to report that Mrs. Dcnchfield's ailment did not prove to be serious. 
"At a highway letting the other day I bumped into TOM HART \vho is now a resident of Co­lumbus. He has just moved down from Minne­apolis to be the local manager of the Employers Group Insurance Co., and promises to be an active member of the Columbus Club. 
"JOHN FONTANA broke into the local news recently, as legal counsel for the U. S. Trotting Association, by coming up with a restraining order on the running of The Ltttic Brown Jug event at Delaware. John is feeling fine now and is still the affable classmate you know. 
"Our buddy. JOE KINNEARY, is moving South—South Columbus, that is. He may pro­fess \igorously that the presence of the Igoe kids on the street he is leav'ing is not the raison d'etre for his move but Fontana chides me with lowering the standards of the neighbor­hood, and now I am wondering if buddy Joe may not be slipping away from the toy-strewn la^vn and walk and drive^^•ay of his classmate— your correspondent. Joe is doing well in Co­lumbus and is today the same pleasant fellow be was in school. 
"JAMES SHOCKNESSY is doing a wonderful job as Chairman of the Ohio Turnpike Commis­sion. Approximate^ 45 percent of the contracts for the work have been let and before long there will be a stretch of deluxe highway across the face of our state, that will in a sense be a tribute to the talents of our Jim. 
"BILL KONOP stopped off in Columbus for a few minutes about a month ago. He has been transferred by his A. T. & T, employers from Indianapolis to New York and seems enthused about the new responsibilities. 
"And now before I close let me thank you classmates for the honor of being elected Vice-President for the Midwest. Vflultt I scarcely merit this privilege I u-ill try to execute all the duties of the ofhce in a fashion that will preclude any regrets for your choice. Thank you. Oh yes, how did the chain letters come out? Cost me 52.00." 
WILLIAM E. MAHIN, former director of re­search for Armour Research Foundation, Chicago, was appointed technical director of Vanadium Corporation of America's new research center in Cambridge, Ohio. 
EDWIN E. SLICK, JR., '30 
Edwin E. Slick, Jr., class of '30, 
recently became President of Haws Re­
fractories Company^ Inc. Haws is one 
of the largest companies in its line of 
specialty refractor^' products and has a 
world-wide market. 
After leaving school Ed went with the U. S. Glass Co. of Tiffin, Ohio, and worked up to Vice President before leaving in 1937 to start his own outfit —the Slick Glass Co. in Gas City, In­diana. After the dissolution of his com­pany in 1949 he joined the Haws Re­fractories as Vice President and Gen­eral Manager. 
Besides being a director of his own corporation he is also President and director of Regional Refractories Co., Inc., a director of U. S. Glass Co., Johnstown Finance and Loan Co., and Johnstown Consumer Discount Co. Ed is a member of the Sunnehanna Coun­try Club, Bachelor's Club of Johns­town, and Pittsburgh Athletic Associ­ation, and has been active in the re­vival of the Central Pennsylvania Alunmi Club. 
Mr. Slick presently resides in Johns­to\vn. Pa., ^vith his wife who, inciden­tally, is a St. Mar>''s graduate. 
JOHN J. ANTUS is now a Trial Attorney ror the • United States Department of Justice in Nexv York City. 
STEVE WOZNIAK is a partner in the finn of Wozniak and Herman with ofHces in the First National Tower, Akron, Ohio. 
CHARLES A. TOTTEN, who captained the golf team in '28, was recently elected to the board of directors of the Forest Lumber Company. 
A Eucharistic procession was recently held in LaCrosse, Wis., celebrating the se^'cnty-fifth an­niversary of perpetual adoration of the Blessed Sacrament for the LaCrosse Franciscan Sisters. The co-ordinating chairman for the procession >vas AUGUST GRAMS. 
25 YEAR REIJN^ION 
1929 
Donald J. Plunkett Biology Department Notre Dame, Ind. 
Larry Stauder, Acting Secy. Engineering BIdg. Notre Dame, Ind. 
We regret to write that THOAL\S J. GRIF­FIN, 3119 Woodbine Avenue, N.E., Knoxville 14, Tennessee, died July 27, 1953. Say a prayer for Tom and for his family. Thomas 'was from Gary, Indian^ when in school. His degree was LL.B. Do not confuse him with TED J. GRIFFIN, A.B., tennis captain, now of Vestal, New York. 
We have ^vord from NORBERT BEYHOFF, President and General ^Manager of IVayne Home Equipment Company, Inc., father of Martha Ann, 14, William, 12, and June, 7. Norb expects to make the reunion. He sets B. KEARNS and LOUIS NIEZER frequently. 
WILLIAM T. BYRNE has, since 1930, been in the Public School System of San Francisco where he is now Director of Boys Athletics and Physical Education. Bill and wife Glad^-s have sons Thomas, 19, and Michael, 16. 
From nearby Oakland we have this news from BILL CRONIN, who is Sales Manager, Frigid­aire Sales Corp. He and wife Janet are proud of their family oF Jennifer, 8, Peter, 4, and TTm­othy, 2 years. He writes: "There are not too many '29ers in this particular area, but ^ve have a very active Northern California Notre Dame Club and do see a lot of Notre Dame boys from time to time. I would like to take thij opportunity to issue an invitation to any and all *29ers ivho come tlirough tlie Bay Area to have lunch with me sometime and visit about dear old Notre Dame. I promise not to give them a Chamber of Commerce talk on ihe ad^'antages of living in California. Here's hoping to see all my friends in the '29cr class at our next reunion. I would like to hear from CHRIS ^VALKELMY. EDDIE McMAHON, JOE SCALES, and JOHN REAGER." 
From JIM CURRY: Now residing . in Great Neck, N. Y., with wife and daughter. Sheila, 12. Plans to attend the Class Reunion in '54 and 
•ends word tliat he has concluded his real estate ventures to go into the swimming pool supply business. Jim last heard from "DOC" DOUGH­ERTY, JOE LINEHAN, FRANK GUSHING. LEON ZABRISKIE, WALT DONNELLY, GEORGE BRAUTIGAif, FRANK McANANEV, and HARVEY DALY. He had a letter from FRANK GUSHING, who is unfortunately laid up with tuberculosis at Isolation Hospital, 1414 Slate St., Springfield, Mass. 
From JOHN H. CUSHMAN, Division Manager of Frigidaire Sales Corp., comes word that he saw BILL SCHNEIDER of Butler. SID SIDEN­FADEN of Ontario, Calif., and his wife paid 
November-December, 1953 

John a \isit. John plans to be on hand for 
the reunion. 
Heard from >MLLARD C. "BILL" FORTIER of 4518 Mone Ave., North HolI>-%vood, Calif., currently Treasurer of the New Plastics Corp.. Hollywood. Hv. plans to attend the reunion and reports he last heard from FRED PARENT and AL AVELZENBACH. 
From IG Surrey Lane, Natick, Mass., comes word of CUMMINGS GIARDINO. He and Iiis wife Viola now have a daughter Gail Anne, 7. Cummings, now proprietor of a rug-clean*n^ con­cern, has heard from CHARLES COLTON and would like news of TOM XfAHAFFEY, PETE BEE, and CHARLES SCHNUREY. He sincerely hopes to make the reunion. 
NORMAN J. HARTZER sends word that he is General Manager of O'Brien Co. Paint Afanu­faclurers and that he and his wife Leila have a baby daughter, Mary Edith. Norm is also a member of the Little Hoover Commission of Los Angeles and on the Board of Directors of llie Catholic Welfare Bureau (Arclidioccse of Los An­geles). Between planes in Chica'^o a few months ago he called on JACK DORGAN, whom he hadn't seen in fifteen years. Norm ^v-ill positively be at the reunion. 
We have word from JOSEPH P. HISS of Oak­land, Califom'a. He is District ^^ana^e^ for Capital Real Esta'c Company and is residing at 675 Santa Ray Ave. He and wife ^larjorie have a son Joseph Mark, aged 4. He would like to hear from his old roommates. JOE REPETT, WALT STANTON, JOHN LAW, and BILL DO­LAN. Joe sees ED "SLIP" MADIG.AN and 
F. A. "BODIE" ANDREWS, who arc in the contracting business, quite often; also BOB Mc-DONALD, *3n. J. LESTER RY.VN, and ED­WARD F. RYAN, '28. Ed Ryan is \'icc-Presi­dent of the Capital Company. Joe Iiop=s to be at the reunion. 
CLAUDE H. HORNING of 133 No. Highland Ave., Akron, Ohio, is in the retail lumber and millwork business when not busy -wlili Edward, 14, Margaret, 13, and Sally, 9. Claude sees ver>* few *29crs, although he has run into JOE KRAKER around to\%n and DON KREIS has stopped in to see him. He is looking forward to seeing all the '29ers in '54. 
From JOSEPH JACHYM comes word that he has been a combination teacher and coadi at Westfield Trade High since 193D. He and wife Helen and John, 11, .Ann, 9, Tliomas, 3, and James, 4, are living at 16 Casimer St. in AVest­field, Mass. Joe plans to be on hand in '54 and reports he has heard from TOM FERRITER, BOB BRENNAN, TOM SHEA, TIM TOOMEY, FRAN CROWE, and FRANCIS CU3HING. Joe attended all the ND-Army games, goes into New-York for the ND-NYU basketball games when possible, and reports he would like to see the Irish play Yale in New Haven's Yale BowL 
From 919 N. Front St., Reading, Pa., comes word of CYRIL A. JONES. Cyril is Supervisor for the Pcnnsj'K'ania Dcpt. of Public Assistance and is still an eligible bachelor. In reply to JOE SMIETANKA, who wondered what had hap­pened to him, Cyril ans%vers: "Nothing. I'm still here." 
From GEORGE R. LADNER comes word that he has been elected Comptroller of the Security Insurance Company of New Haven and the Con­necticut Indemnity Company. He and his wife are the proud parents of Charles, 14, Eugenie, 9, George, 5, and baby Carol Ann. Gcorge'5 pres­ent address is Lanyon Drive, Cheshire, Conn., and he informs us that, he hopes to be on hand in '54. 
From C. DONALD McCOLL: Currently living at 3631 Larclimont, Toledo. Ohio, with wife Ger­\*ase Mar>- and Roberta, 15, Tliomas, 14, CharUs, 12, Jean, 9, and Patsy, 7, Occupation—Proba­tion OiScer, Juvenile Court. Donald is planning on making the reun'on and 5a>'s he would like to hear from GEORGE MONROE. 
EUGENE A. MILLIFF, 21324 Morcwood Park­way, Rocky River 16, Ohio, writes: "After 20 years of ser\'icc with the phone company I've almost forgotten how to write a letter. It's much easier to grab a phone and call. However, licrc goes: Married 16 years to Magdalene Raeder and have two children—^Maril>-n, 11, and James, 8. Started with Bell Telephone Co. immediately after graduation and have been with them ever since, except for a short time during the depression. Am now in charge of the Toll Circuit Layout group. I talk to ROCCO PERONE periodically when the A. T. & T. gets in my liair (or wliat's left of it). I saw WALTER MASON the year before he was killed. We had quite a visit and his death the following year \\*as quite a shock to me. I've met and seen some of the '29 men but for the life of me I can*t remember their names at tliis moment. Wlien I get a <:han=e to visit with you at the reunion I'll probably think of them." 
REV. JOHN MOLTER, C.S.C., Ph.D., informs us he is now Dean of Science at the University of Portland. He has not seen nor Iieard from any of the *29ers sinre going to Portland in 1945, but assures us that he will be at the '54 reunion if teaching commitments permit. 
Heard from JAMES R. NOWERY, 59W Fair­field, Shreveport, La. He is a Drilling Contractor for major oil companies and independents in Texas, South Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana. There are three little Nowerys — James, 17, Charles, 13, and Patricia, 8. Jim has run into KARL KASCHOWSKI, 120 Wall St., New York Cily, who is with Standard Ore and Al!o>-s Corp. Jim say's he will be at the reunion. 
RUSSELL T. O'BRIEN of R.R. 5, Nrrth­woods Park, Valparaiso, Indiana, and wife Betty have three children—Patrick, 14, L'nda, 12, and Deborah, 6. Russell is a Manufacturing Engineer for Ford Aircraft in Chicago and commutes be­tween his work and his home on the lake. He relates that at present there arc about CO people working with him who have the responsibility of furnishing precision measuring equipment to the Ford Aircraft Industry' in the Chicago Plant. He is planning to make the reunion. 
Word received from JOHN P. SMITH of 45 Woodmcre Rd.. West Hartford, Conn., reveals that he is planning to attend the class get-together next year. At present Jolm is Personnel Supervisor for Pratt and Whitney Aircraft's Meriden Plant. 
From FRED J. WEISS, father of James, 16. Mary Ann, 14, Martha Jean, 12, Paul, 9, Catherine. 4, and baby Richard: "Have been an electrical construction engineer, both on my o%vn and for othei contractors, for the past 14 years. Tins business of being out on construction Jobs is fine but I am tr>*ing to change into something that will let me spend more time at home w-ith my family," Fred also informs us that he has seen CHARLEY SCHUTTY and that DR. A. R. DEMMAN called him while passing through in 1951, and, if at all possible, will be at the reunion. 
JOSEPH E. WHALEN informs us that lie js Afanager of the Hotel Savery, Dcs Moines, Io%\-a. Joe says that in his position he has the oppor­tunity of meeting quite a number of the alumm of all class years, but would like to hear from former roommate P. L. MOORE, '27. He re­grets that there arc no sons to send to ND, but is doing the next best thing by sending daughters Susan, 20, and Joan, 17, to St. Mary's College and says that prospects seem likely that there will be a son-in-law from one of the more recent ND classes. Will he be at the reunion? Yes." 
JOSEPH KEEFE, Winter Haven, Florida, \h­i'.cd the campus recently, the first time since 1940, with his two sons. 
From Des Moines, Iowa, comes word of F. AURCELLUS WONDERLIN, attorney and lou-a Claims Manager for Aetna Life Insurance Co. of Hartford. He now has three youngsters—Richard, 11, Sue, 8, and Mark, 2, and says he hopes to attend the '54 Reunion. 
1930 
Dc\-erc Plunkett liberal Arts Bui!ding Notre Dame, Ind. 

JOHN T. ROCAP was re-elected to the Su­preme Board of Directors of the Knights of Columbus at a Supreme Council meeting in St. Paul, ^linn., recently. 
1931 
James T. Doylc 6437 N. Bdl Ave. Chicago 43, III. 

Tlic installation of new presses at the Ave Maria Press and resumptTon of regular publica­tion of the ALUMNUS is about to end my \*acation as class secretary. My last notes were sent in March and since that time some of the diligent and faithful '31ers have sent letters. 
Scenes from the Houston Club family picnic At left, some of the "old sacIis" (L. to R.): Jun Donnelly, Tommy Schexnaydcr, Hugh 
Riifferty, Jim Yotmg, Larry Kelley, Lcighton Young, find out how out of shap: they are. In the middle photo are a quintet of future candidates for Coach Leahy's gridders (L. to R.), Kevin Rafferty, Tommy Standish, Michael Rafferty, Johnny Garrett, Richard 
Standish. .At right, a group photo of the whole, tired-out bunch. 
There is iio charge for publication so get busy with notes for the next issue. 
Judging from the Ok!ahoma-ND game last Saturday this is going to be an interesting and successful season for the team. I hope that any '31ers attending the game remembered to check in with SPIKE SULLIVAN at Tulsa before going out to Nonnan. Spike, please send me a note on your tea party and any of the boys who Mopprd-
I attended the Class Secretaries* Conference and 1953 Reunion last June. TIic new reunion setup is perfect and should make for a successful 25-year reunion of our class in 1956. After what the class of 1928 did tliis year we really have somcthfni; to aim for. I would sui*gest reading the 1928 notes for an account'ng of one of the most successful minions ever held at Notre Dame. At the Alumni Banquet I sat across from a man from Stiiriiis. Michitian. and my first inquiry* was about BOB NEYDON. He mentioned that Bob had been taken to the hospital the day before suffering from a recurrence of cancer. I wrote Mrs. Ncj-don and received the following letter from her: 
Dear ^f^. Doyle: 
"Your grand letter arrived the first of July and although Bob was very ill at that time he was very pleased to know that you had written. I told him I had received a letter from you in­quiring about his condition and that you said you were remembering him in your prayers. He wanted me to thank you for him. As you have probably heard, he died July 10th. He was beautifully prepared and his complete acceptance of God's will in his rei;ard was an e:tample ID all of us who were privileged to be near him those last weeks. His faith and couraee were a­sourcc of strength to all of us. The children and I will stay in Sturgis a few years an>^vay. The three older children are in the Catholic school here and I have a wonderful little girl who has been w*i:li us almost four years who will take care of the two younger children while. I teach kindergarten. X am sure God and Bob will take care of us. Sincerely, Mrs. Betty Bruce Xeydon.** Her address ts R. R. 1, Sturgis, Michigan, jn the event anv of you wish to write her. Please re­member Bob in your prayers. 
At the reunion I met LUCIO MUNIAN from Mexico City and suggest that *31ers from that area contact him for details on the new reunion setup. Sunday morning on my return to Chicago I stopped to see FATHER JOHN MARGRAF, who is pastor of a small parish, St. Mary's, 431 
S. Taylor St. He looks well and asked about the Howard Hall boys he had back in 1927-1928. VINCE PONIC keeps in touch with him. Father John would enjoy seeing any of his boys when they are in South Bend. 
CLAY ADAMS, ND *3Ii4, sent a fine letter with pictures and NBC Press Releases from which I have taken the liberty of lifting ctcerpts for the column. He is living in Larchmont, New York, and has a son, Michael. With most of his campus life spent with the class of '31 I am hoping he will plan to make our 25-vear reunion in 1956. 
Dear Jim: 
''Thank you for your kind note of February 23rd with its complimentary remarks about 'Vic­tory at Sea.' My compliments to you and CARL CRONIN for spotting my name on the show and remembering me from the ND Class of 1931. That's pretty good sleuthing considering that you have only been able to see two or three of the episodes and particularly if I am not formally listed as a member of the Class of 1931. Tech­nically, I suppose Vm of the Class of 1931^2 having Ir-st some time by transferring out of the Engineering Sdiool following my freshman year. 
'^Rather than write you about my present activi­ties, as you suggest, I will attadi herewith some of NBC's press handouts regarding the show. If they will 5cr\*c your purposes for the ALUMNUS, you may feel free to use them in any way you choose. 
"My contacts witli classmates in this area have been rather infrequent during the past several years. This past weekend, however, I had the pleasure of renewing acquaintances with a number of ND men during a retreat at the Bishop Nfalley Retreat House, Jamaica, Long Island. ED ELLSWORTH and HERB GIORGIO did a 
The Buffalo Club celebrated' Notre Dame night at Buffalo Raceway—the 7th heat was named 'The ND Trot." James J. Dtmnigan, '34, (R) presented a $1,000 club scholarship check to President Jim Clauss, '44, and Donald J. Jacobi, '34, treasurer. 
wonderful job organizing the sixty-odd Notre Dame men who participated in this retreat. "It was a pleasure to hear from you, Jim. Thank you again for taking the trouble to write." Sincerely, jSf M. CLAY ADAMS 
"M. CLAY ADAMS of Goldens Bridge, New York, former writcr-producer-director for Twen­tieth Century-Fox and RKO-Pathc Studios in Holt>'wood, is currently helping to build one of the most outstanding programs since the begin­ning of television: 'Viclor>- at Sea,' a television history of nav'al operations since 1939, being pro­duced by the National Broadcasting Company. 
"Adams is film director for Henry Salomon, distinguished young na\'al historian who is produc­ing 'Victory at Sea' for NBC in conjunction with the U. S. Navy. Adams has been in the motion picture industry for over 15 years. From 1935-41 he was associated with 20:h Centur>-Fox studios in Holly-wood serving variously as screen writer, story editor and assistant producer. In 1941 he joined Pathc News, where he was man­ager of the West Coast office and also producer-director of short subjects. During World War H he served in the U. S. Nav>- as a producer-director of training and special purpose films. He was put on inactive duty as a Lieut. Commander in 1946 and returned to RKO-Pathe to help or­ganize the commercial film department there. In 1949 he was appointed manager of the firm's Commercial Film aod Television Department and also produced the feature length color film 'Stra­tegic Attack' for the U. S. Air Force. 
" 'Victory at Sea* received an unprecedented Grand Award as 'the greatest program on tele­vision' at the second annual Sylvanla Television Awards dinner in New York, December U, 1952. In addition Clay Adams received the SyK'ania Certificate of Merit for his directing of this program." 
JIM McQUAIDf Vincennes, Indiana, magazine dealer, phones when he is in Chicago and sends an occasional note. Jim has set up the McQuaid award at Vincennes University on an annual basis as special recognition for ability, sportsmanship, scholarship and mental attitude. Co-Captain Ed Cantwcll was the winner this year. Jim recelx-ed a note and subscription from MIKE KINNEY, who is Judge of the Circuit Court at Edwards-ville, Illinois. Jim sends the following letter: 
Dear Jim: *'Surc enjoyed the Old Timers' game last Satur­day. Sorry you did not make it, or did you? Tlie day wxs rather chilly for May but we had a good time. Saw FRANK LEAHY for a minute before the game, and also MOOSE KRAUSE. Had a short visit with JOHN JORDAN in the cafeteria; he Is most enthusiastic about his team for next year. My hope is that he will come 
through and beat St. Louis as I have happened to see St. Louis take these past two years, lo good luck this next season. 
"I was sorry to miss you when I called you last Sunday. Marie and I went on to Chicago Saturday after the game and called just to say hello. Was quite surprised the other day when JIM BOSCO, from Dayton, stopped Jn the shop to see me. He was qiiarterbacking in our day and graduated In 1932. Remember we used to call him 'Boake.' He looked fine and was on his way to Robinson, Illinois, on business. 
"Guess my next trip lo ND will be for the re­treat in August. Wish you could make it for I am sure it would be a wonderful three days for you. Marie joins me in sending our best wishes." 
jSf JIM AfcQUAID 

iUter receiving the last ALUMNUS Jim sent another note saying how much he enjoyed read­ing about the '31ers. He and his wife attended the Old Timers game and are planning on at­tending the Georgia Tech game. IVhen you renew or make gift subscriptions for business or home remember Jim as he can use the business. His address is: Mac's Magazine Rack, 28 N. Fifth St., Vincennes, Indiana. 
EARL BRIEGER sent an announcement of the opening of his new law office under the name of Parker, E\-ashwick & Brieger, 1502 Frick BIdg., Pittsburgh, Pa,: 
Dear Jim: " I have intended writing you on numerous occa­sions since receipt of your letter of last Decem­ber which you sent to me by way of our mutual friend. Dr. Thomas Sabow. Appreciated very much your note to me and while you stated you were happy to get all the information on me, rest assured that I learned from Tom all about you. I also understand from Tom that you and his brother-in-law have quite an operation going and are enjoying real success which I am certain­ly happy to learn. 
"I note in the ALUMNUS that you are offering a reward for a letter of current news about all of the I93I graduates, and I promise you that some day soon, I shall forvvard to you all the information that I have regarding any members of our class. In your letter, you promised that you would look me up on your next trip to Pittsburgh and I shall look fortvard to your keeping this promise. 
"With best regards to you and your family, I remain." Sincerely, 
EARL 

While in Chicago July 7th &IYRON HERSH­FIELD stopped at the office, but I was out buy­ing prizes for the Chicago Club Golf Tournament and missed him. TOM ASHE phoned between 
November-December, 1953 31 

First meeting of the newly fonned Notre Dame Club of Kansas. Standing (L. to R.): J. Carlin, '28, A. Sch\\'artz, '37, B. Schaefcr, and J. Foley, '40. Seated: F. Cans, '43, C. Schii-artz, '97, D. Welchons, '30, G. Schwarz, '25, N. Skelley, '25, R. McAuIifTe, G. Cole, '34. 
flights Jast June, but I missed htm for the fame reason. Hts new address Is 715 Avalon Road, Whtttjer, Calif. I had the pleasure of spending some time with his brother, Gerald, who is secre­tary of the class of 1922 (I suggest you read his column in Uie July-August ALUMNUS). Tom WTites: 
Dear Jim: 
"Thanks very much for your nice letter of June 30th which finally- caught up with me after two trips to California. I was very sorry that I missed talking to you in Chicago, and on my next trip I hope to stay more than a half hour lo that w: atn sit down and compare notes on the class of '31. 
"I wish I could help you out ^%'ith news for your column in the ALU^INUS, but despite the lort of nomadic existence which I have been leading for the past fctv months I am short of information. I can. howewr. tell you that since April 1 have seen HASKELL ASKEW many times, his cliarming wife, Josephine, and his nine-year-old shortstop-to-bc. Jay. The Aske*vs arc the sort of people who help bui'd up that great tradition of friendliness so topical of tltat part of the country. 
"Haskell is a neighbor of JIM BURKE, '30, who has been very successful in Oklahoma City real estate circles, and ivith his lovely wife, Ann, has been also successful in raising a fine family. 
"I was accompanied on my latest trip by my mfe, Kathie, and needless to say because of the afore-mentioncd Notre Damers and their w^ves, we had a most pleasant week in Oklahoma City. From there we went to Rochester by way of Chicago (:ricd to call you), and In Roc**rster had no luck at all trying to get hold of JOHN­NY DORSCHEL. Tliree days in the old home town, then to New York City for a *vcek, a day in Houston, and then to Los Anr^elcs, suburh of Wiittiei. It was the first time that Ka'.hie had ever been away from our thrcc-year-old twins, and though wc had a wonderful trip the plane did not go quite fast enough from Houston to LA. 
"After ^mting that last paragraph I had a phone call from GENE CALHOUN, *32, promi­nent as a Local Loan Company manager and ND Booster. Gene knows everybody around Los Angeles and he Just phoned to say that he liad some TV tickets which I needed for visitors. He asked me to say 'Hello.' 
"I recall BOB NEYDON very well, and was very sorry to learn of his serious illness. Need­less to say, I have remembered him In my prayers and will continue to do so. 
"You mentioned MATT CULLINAN, and that elusive gentleman is one I have not seen In eighteen months. He called around at the plant one day ivhen I was out of town, and I have not beard from htm since then. 
"I hope to be In Oklahoma City on the 26th of September and will try very hard to make tlie remaining fourteen miles to Norman. Any chance of seeing you there?'* 
Sincerely, TO\f ASHE 

EDDIE RYAN reported seeing BEN OAKES on Boul Mich. I saw NED KELLEY at the Tournament. AL STEPAN had a visit fmm DAN HALPIN and in Florida saw BOB GORE, Florida Swamp-bug enthusiast, JOHN SULLI­VAN and BILL BURGHART. Bob's brothers, Fitz and Fred, were early golfers July 20lh. BERT MALONEY put in an appearance at Elmhurst too. Other '31 golfers were PAUL DUNCAN, JIM MULVANEY, AL STEPAN, GIL SEAMAN, TOM COUGHLIN. RAY COLLINS, FRANK HOLLAND and JIM DOYLE. MAR­TIN DOUTfEY, on hand for dinner, had quite a bit to do with the marble s:atucs and art work in the new St. Peter's Church at HO W. Madi­son Street. HENRY G. (RED) O'CONNELL Is remarried and now has 5r\-en cliildren to keep him busy. FRANK DITTOE responded with JOE DUNNE'S address. It is P.O. Box 270, Deming. New >tcxico. I have written Joe and hope to have a note for the next issue. While In Cindnnati last May I phoned BILL CASSADY. Bill had planned on making the I93I reunion, but a new arrival at that time required his presence at home. He is plannini; to be on hand in 1956. I also talked to RED LONEY who has twin boys and a girl. He mentioned having seen DEON SUTTON in Church somewhere in France during the war. CIL\RLEY POUXRS came through w*Ith a iine letter: 
Dear Jim: "Your letter arrived at a time when I was beset with troubles. Hence, I was unable to make the deadline you requested. My ^vife w-as crit'cally ill from complications connected with childbirth which resulted in the loss of the baby. Thanks be to God, my wife is now on the road to reco\"cry. 
"I have greatly enjoyed the *3I column in the ALUMNUS and want to congratulate you on an excellent Job. The news U indeed welcome as I have had but little contact with Notre Dame men in this area. After leaving Notre Dame I spent a while at Georgia Tech and then cm-barked on an engineering career that took me on jobs throughout the Southeast. I did manage to get up to New York each Fall for the ND-Army game and there I would sec ED FLYNN, BUD TOUHY, AL GALL, JOHN BURNS, DICK DONOGHUE and many others. In 1936 I re­ceived a commission as Second Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineer Reser\'cs and In September 1941 was called to active duty. TIic next four and a half years I ser\'ed with \-arinus Topo­graphic Units both In the Unite<I States and the ETO. While stationed at the Engineer Board in Washin<jton I ran into AL STEPAN and 'BUS' RICH. Later in Paris I had a short reunion with CLIFF FISHER at a Red Cross Club. Since my release from active duty I have remaint^d active In the Rcser\*c and now com­mand an Engineer Combat Group which necessi­tates my attendance at Summer Camp and pre­cludes my appearances at class reunions. 
"^Vhile in the service I married a diarmlng young lady from Raleigh, N. C , and upon my release from active duty decided to end my roaming and settle douTi. As a result I have deserted the engineering field for the wholesale baking industry. 
"In the Fall of 1951 I assisted the local council of the Knights of Columbus In staging a Rally the night prior lo the Notre Dame-North Caro-
Una game. It was an outstanding success thanks to the appearance of FATHER HESBURGH. ED KRAUSE, ARCH WARD and HERB JONES plus a like rcprcsen'ation from North Carolina as %s'ell as our political leaders. The Class of *31 \%-as represented by FREDDIE RAHAIM up from Jacksonville, Fla. At the game I saw the Simon Legrce of my Freshman Afanager days— PAT CANNY. I had a short, but delightful talk with Pat who hasn't lost any of his old zip. This full we again hope to stage a Rally and if any of our class are in the \-icinity, I hope they will look me up. The news' of the deaths of BOB CUNNINGHAM, BILL CLE.\RY and JOE LAUERAIAN is certainly shocking and points out the necessity of attending our class reunions as our ranks are thinning. So I have every intention of attending our 1936 Reunion, God willing. ^Vith best personal regards, I remain.** 
Sincerely yours, 
jSf CHARLIE PO^VERS 

From Grand Rapids, Michigan, famous for hardwood and hardheads, home of several *3l men, comes the following note: 
Interesting and newsy, to say the least. I met WALT KELLEY last June and he asked about the fonovi.-ing: TED HUEBSCH, RED MC­CARTHY, MIKE KINNEY. RED O'CONNELL, PHIL ANGSTEN and JIM RICH, who is now City Attorney for Crystal Lake, III. I had lunch with Jim and his wife about two months ai;o. TOM GOLDEN sent a note in ApriL His present address is Box 1412, Anaconda, ^fontana. 
Dear Jim: **Just a few lines from the Wild West to bring things up to date. I am still considered totally disabled, but I shall have a job for the summer at Yellowstone Park. If I can save a few dollars this summer I plan on going to Ireland in the Fall. I plan on staying a year or two if I like it as I have a lot of relatives there and then I want to go to Australia. I have a lot of friends in Australia whom I met during the three years I spent there. *'With the devaluation of the English and Aus­tralian pounds, I can live there nicely on my compensation. 
"There is a young Notre Dame Law School graduate in Anaconda named BOB BOYD. He is Deputy County Attorney and graduated, I be­lieve, in 1931. Another Notre Dame man is back in tou-n from the Montana State Hospital ^vhere he made a very successful victory over tuberculosis. He spent two or three years in the hospital and is looking fine now. His name is TOM KELLY. I think his class ^^^as '38 or *39. 
"When I read your column in the last ALU^f-NUS it was like old home week reading the names of so many fellows for ^vhom I have a deep affection and I would like nothing better than to sec them all again.** 
Keep the Faith, 
jSf TOM GOLDEN 

Our world traveler, MATT CULLINAN, was in the states last June and sent a few %vords: 
"Once again, a Uttle letter from one of those 'missing persons* for whom you have a reward posted for some information. Since my last letter to you just prior to my departure for Japan, I*vc been doing considerable traveling on construction work. The last trip, from which I have but re­cently returned, was to French Morocco. I had intended makmg a stopover in Chicago—this %vas in July, 1931—but at the last moment plans were changed and I made the through flight from San Francisco to New York and on to Paris, Geneva, Rome, Palestine and doubled back to Casablanca. 
"Upon my rctuirn, I took at long last, and the first restful trip in a long, long time, a return trip from New York to San Francisco by train, via New Orleans. It looks as though, ere long, I'll be leaving for either Sumatra or Manila, and will in all probabih't>' be working both projects. Altliough no engineering graduate, I've done noth­ing else for years—it comes under the heading of 'Coordinator* whicli means, regardless of how Webster defines it—in my book—as a chap with a desk between two, or more, dam good expe­diters. 
"I saw aVRLEY McDEVTIT in New York. He is rapidly becoming a guiding genius ior Na­tional Geographic Society-. I ^**as terribly sorry to hear of JOE LAUER.\L\N'S death. He, TOM ASHE and AUSTIN BOYLE used to live across from me in Walsh Hall. Joe was a fine chap. Tom Ashe is now Vice President of E. M. Smith Tool Co., in, or near, Los Angeles, Calif. 
"I had a wonderful trip returning from Paris. I became well acquainted with a French General there, or rather in Casablanca. He was trans­ferred to Paris, and insisted I stay with him and see Paris enroute to the States. He 'took care* of the Air France Line and when I arrived at Orly Field, Paris, I was met by the stalT car. Next day I was called upon by an Air France 
representative and was told I was to be paid 10,000 francs a day for every day I was 'off loaded* and that the General told them I would be his guest for 30 days. In other wortis at 350 francs per $1.00, the sum of $28.00 per day, for being a guest. As it turned ou: my money was no good while being a guest. They could put me Mp for life on that basts, in Fans, or in Timbucto, for that matter. This is just a short note, I happened to see an ALUMNUS in my Dad's office and thought of you. I don't take it because it would never catch up \\*ith me. Let me hear from you. I'll be here for a couple of weeks anyway. How is AL STEPAN, GENE COYLE, EDDIE RYAN and BOURKE MOT­SETT? Ever hear of VINCE PONIC or RED MEAGHER of Mankato, Minn. My very best, Jim.*' 
MATT I. CULLINAN 

While going through the local K. of C. week­ly, I saw a picture of REV. C. B. MOTSETT, Chaplain of Danville Council, attending the state convention. Needless to say, Bourke looks won* derful. I sent TOM MONAHAN a golf an­nouncement this summer and received the fol­lo\ving note: 
Dear Jim: "Received your card regarding the Notre Dame Club of Chicago golf party at Elmhurst. Sure appreciate your thinking of me and inviting me. However, I cannot get away at this time. Maybe next year I can make it. 
"We are keeping rather busy in broom com, though we are taking off for two weeks in August; going back to Holland, Michigan. Was down in south Texas in late June and spent a very pleasant afternoon and evening \isiting with our old friend, BILL BERNING, in Becvillc, Texas. Bill is now one of the big beer distrib­utors of south Texas and handles Schlltz for all the s'ate below San Antonio. Had a very pleas­ant \-isit, and rehashed old times. 
"I would recommend the Beming type of south­ern hospitality if you are ever down that way. Thanks a lot for the card, Jim, and will see you one of these days in Chicago. Best regards.** 
TOM 

JOSEPH B. KIRBY, Manager of WKRS, Wau­kegan, III., was the commentator at Memorial Day ceremonies at Ascension Cemetery. FRANCIS and VERA HENNEBERGER, together with their charming daughter, Nancy, were in Chicago In August. Henne looks fine, but right now is wor­ried about losing some weight. He is in the ice business at Princeton, Indiana. His co-partner in crime of Walsh Hall fame, PAUL GRANT, and his wife were in town after registering their son, Bill, as a freshman at ND. 
Photo at left, Dr. Nabor Carrillo Flores (R.), president of the University of Mexico receives congratulatory scroll in Mcsuco City from Notre Dame honoring the 400th anniversary of the University's founding. Sam Adelo, '47, (L.) presented the scroll, assisted by Richie Leon, '44. At right, a group of alumni who attended the recent meeting in Mexico City, Harry Newning, '14, Tclmo de 
Landero, '37, club president, Rafael Gomez, '27, and Raul Flores, '27. 
Noyember-December, 1953 

 wrote MATT GARRIGAN about Bob Ncjdon and received ttie following: 
Dear Jim: **My apologies for delaying a reply to your letter. Tlie information you gave me on BOB NEYDOX was no surprise as I had been ap­praised of his condition by Mrs. Neydon^s brother who lives in Detroit and is a nc'ghbor of a friend of mine. However, the coincidence of your letter and Bob's death within a short lime was distuH>ing. I was out of town at the time of the funeral and can give you no particulars. 
"Bob had known for well over a year the seri­ousness of his illness and with Dixinc courage faced the situation. Tlie stories brought to me by his family made me feel proud to have known him and an inspiration to meet certainly less de­manding problems in this Hfe. Hts last year was spent in complete resignation to the Will and Love of God, and if Notre Dame means any­thing to us we need look no further than the life of Bob Kc>'don. It seems to me the prayers for the Dead should be re\'ersed and tliat Bob pray for us to receive the graces he must liavc had from the good Lord and his Blessed Mother so that ivc may be as he was, ready and anxious to meet Them. 
**Tlierc is little of great moment here in the Motor Cit>% but I do meet with MARTY AMDER and JOE OVREY, '32, scleral times a month. I,ast summer Mart was iiaving his XINTH (Lealiy hasn't won the title yet) bap ized and the affair almost turned into an XD rxdiy. BOB RUPPE came on from Chicago to be godfatlier, JOE CAREY and I went to the church for the ride, but lo and behold who was having his third son also baptized but ERNIE GARGARO, '33. And iicre is the box score of progeny among ND men present: Wider (9), Ruppe (6), Carey (4), Gargaro (3). 
"Visited with HARRY MERDZINSKI of Grand Rapids during the National Convention of the Catliolic War Veterans held in Detroit last June. Talked on the phone with CLARENCE DURBIX who lives in the Southfield area, suburban De­troit, that is, Clarence was helping the local Lions sponsor a talk by our PAT MANION, author, lecturer and former dean of the law school. 
"I have a nephew at Maryknoll who says a Father Basken-tlle from Joliet. I!l.. a medical doctor before becoming a priest is on his ^^'ay to Africa. I wonder if he could be a brother of BOB BASKERVILLE of our class. Bob hails from Joliet. 

"Put in for tickets to sec the Pitt, Georgia Tech and X'avy games. Maybe I will see you at gates 4 and 5 after the games. So long for a while, Jim; nice to hear from you.'* 
MATT GARRIGAN 

Matt, Father Baskcr\^Ile you mrntion Is a cousin of BOB BASKERVILLE of our class. At ND in June I met FATHER CLEMENT KASE of our class. He had just returned to the campus from Por land. Also seen were JERRY CROW­LEY, FRANCIS FUTTER, TOM COUGHLIN, JOE DEEB and JACK SAUNDERS. I got a fine report on BILL KARL from some of his Washington friends. 
While near Waukcgan recently I stopped to see FRANK BUTORAC at his Dresden Art Products Co., which he operates with his wife. Frank sends his best and asks that the fe'lows stop in when in the vicinity. F. X. MURPHY, JR., has wnfen twice: "Tlie July-August issue of the ALUMNUS arrived the other day. You are doing a line job, Jim, congratulations. I know that I've read ever>- word of it X'TCC times. It is nice to Icam that ARTIE BIEBEL and NORB CHRISTMAN arc doing so well. It would appear that Johnnie and I got out of the north country* in time! Amie with three children, and Norb, the glutton, with five. We, as you know, have four: Mike, Jill, Marcia and Dick. They range from 6 to 19 and keep mc busy. Johnnie and I planned to be in Juarez on UND night, but didn't make it—maybe we will the next time. Wc are really looking fon*-ard to 1956 and you can bet we'll make cvtry effort to be on deck. I am sorry to learn that Red's vdlc died, but am glad to learn that he had the good sense to get married again so that Iiis kids have a mother: Seven is quite a brood but the more the merrier. I'll bet their place is like a county fair and cver>' bit as much fun. Tlic three wc have around here and their friends keep us jumping. Wc also have a couple of Doys from Walker Air Base who make this their headquarters. Johnnie and I enjoy your chatter and letters in the .ALUMNUS—we look forward to it—you are doing a fine job, keep it up." 
Daniel P. Higgins, Jr. (right), Vice-Chainnan of the Notre Dame Scholarship Committee ol New York, presents the 1953 Academic Scholarship Award to Harry £. Smith in ccre­mcaies at Hotel Commodore. Looking on at left is John A. Hoyt, Jr., past president of the Club and current Chairman of the New York City CIuVs Trust Fund. 
THOMAS F. MciMAHON. '29 

The new Vice-President of C. A. Sporl & Co.. Insurance Brokers and Average Adjusters, New Orleans, is Thomas F. McMahon of the class of 1929. 
Tom hails from Coming, New York, and became associated with the Insur­ance Company of North America upon graduation. He recently resigned as New Orleans Manager of this com­pany after 23 years' service to take over his new position. 
He is a past President of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of New Orleans and at present is a member of the Pick­wick Club and of the International House in New Orleans, and is a direc­tor of the Family Service Society. 
The McMahons have a fine family of two daughters and one son. The lat­ter, Thomas, attended Notre Dame for a year and a half before being induct­ed into the Army. 
I hope tliat many of you have made a good contribu.ton to the Notre Dame Foundation in response to the reminder sent out by JACK SAUNDERS in late July. If not, there is still time to participate in the 1953 foundation drix-e. 
Again I ask your help with notes for the 1931 column. It can continue to be interesting only with your cooperation. If your conscience both­ers you, get it off your chest with a letter, PROMPTLY. Let me know about the people you may sec at football games this fall. As this will probably be my last copy before Christmas pub­
JOHN \V. BRENN/\N, '27 

The appointment of John W. Bren­nan, '27, as Vice President-Engineering was announced by the American Blow­er Corporation, Detroit, recently. 
Brennan Joined American Blower 

in 1928, where he wokred as a Sales 
Engineer at several district offices until 
1945. During that year he became 
Manager of the Corporation's Hydrau­
lic Coupling Division with headquar­
ters in Detroit. He remained in that 
capacity until 1951 when he was made 
Chief Engineer, a position he held 
until his latest appointment. 
He is a past chairman of the Detroit Section, American Society of Mechani­cal Engineers; a member of the Engi­neering Society of Detroit; and past president and director of the Notre Dame Cliib of Detroit. 
A son, James H. graduated from Notre Dame in 1952, while John W. is a member of the '56 class at N.D. 
Hcation I wish to extend to one and all wishes for a Happy and Holy Christmas and New Year. 
1932 
James K. Collins 3336 Kenniore Rd. Shaker Heigbts, O. 

A serious injury was suffered by IKE TERRY this past sununnr when he caught his foot in a hay augur on his farm near Baraboo. The acci* dent necessitated the amputation of Ike's left leg below the knee. 
BADEN POWELL wri:cs from hb nzw ad­dress at 1222 Ea-.t Fourth St., Santa Ana, Cali­fornia, he sees TOM GATELY regularly in San Diego, and that JACK WERNER is out of the Nav>- and back at his old firm. JERRY CON­WAY is still with CBS promoting their TV shows in HoII>nvood. 
Baden abo stated that DR. ROY CATIZONE is a regular commuter between Saginaw, ^lichi­gan, and Los Angeles and that be plans to give up his practice and retire to Cal. Roy's father passed away during the past year. 
JOHN LITCHER has been promoted to Dis­trict Manager of the American Automobile In­surance and is in charge of the St. Louis ofHce. 
I stopped in Wooster to sec BILL CON.-VTON recently and found that he has been out of circulation for many months. He broke his hip in March and has been convalescing ever since. 
I was tramferrcd to Cleveland in July and since coming here have seen FLO AIcCARTHY, HUGH BALL, JOHN KIENER, BILL VAS ROOV, JACK COLLINS, SARGE RAWLEIGH and JOHN MATOU3EK among others. McCarthy recently passed the Ohio Real Estate Board c-xamii and is a broker. Jack CoU'ns' father died late in September. The Cleveland Club is vcr>­active and, with McCarthy as president, is hav­ing a great year. 
JOSEPH P. SITEK of Cheboygan, Mich., was recently sworn in as an assistant district attorney. Sitek was assigned to the lands division of the Justice Department office in Cheboygan. 
1933 
Jiscph A. McCabe 632 Forest Ave. River Forest, III. 

FRANCIS J. CROWE b now an associate in the firm of O'Shaughnessy and O'Shaughnessy with offices at 10 South LaSalle Street, Chi­cago, 111. 
PATRICK F. CROWLEY, a member of New-comb, Crowley, Sprecher, and Weeks ha.\v Of­fices, announces that the ofHces have moved to Suite 2010, 100 West Monroe St., Chicago, III. 
JA.MES \S\ MAHONEY, vice-president in charge of sales, has been promoted to executive 
vice-president of Gladding, McBean Co., of Los Angeles, California. FRED B. SNITE, JR., who has been con­fined to an iron lung for the past 17 years, re­
. ccnlly celebrated his 43rd birthday in \Iinocqua, Wisconsin, with five of his former classmates and their wives in attendance. 
MayEAjt 
JUNBtt-12-13 

1934 
Edward F. Mansfield 122 E. 42nd St. New York, N. Y. 

THO.\fAS F. DALTON received a Bachelor of Laws degree from St. John's University on June 14, 1953. 
WILLIAM P. HUGHES has been appointed a special agent for the Northwestern .Mutual Life Insurance Company. He will be located in the New York City area. 
(Ed Note: ED MANSFIELD has been promoted to Assbtant Sales Manager for the Crown Zcller­bach Corporation's eastern divbion.—^J. C.) 
1935 
Franld>ii C. Hochreiter 1327 Pentwood Rd. Baltimore 12, Md. 

EDWARD F. VYZRAL, LL.B., is engaged in the pm'ate practice of law with pfEces at 100 North LaSallc St., Chicago, III. 
HARRY D. GAFNEY has received a Ifaster of Arts degree in education from Notre Dame. This is the first time we have made a trip to press in several issues of our literary publica­. tion. We decided it was better to **say nothing" 
Notables of Kentucky Club essay contest  L. to R.: Joe Donaldson, '23, chaimum of the 
contest committee, Don Merkley and John Cunningham, the winners, and Bill Bosler, '41, former President of the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky. 
November-Decembtr, 1953 

Golfers who participated in the Notre Dame Club of Chicago's annual golf tournament at left includes Lew Fonscca, Jim Gallagher, Earl Hilligan, and Charles Comiskey. At right 
for a few montlis tlian to try filling in the large void with the personal pronoun, first person, singtilar. We must, however, apologize to MITCH SALEH and ED KILMURRAY for not trans­mitting tlietr news in tlie interim. We shall get to it presently. 
The ole tjpewTiter starts grinding now because we arc two years away from a twent>*-ycar re­union and we must start somewhere to begin planning. Last June wc attended the Class Sec­retaries* Conference on the campus and heard some amazing stories about reunions, and saw even more amazing things for real. The turnouts were fantastic—but it took two years of bom­bardment to bring the men back. 
For months now the '35 class has been dead as far as neu'S is concerned. 'We could \%'rite nothing because 'vv-e had nothing to ^sTitc about. Tlic days of having a pile of letters which had to be boiled down to make the news fit the space allotted to us have long- passed au'ay. If the *33 spint is measured by what has come across our desk—that spirit breathed its last and has been duly, if dully interred. But, maybe with a shot of the new wonder drugs and a large dose of plutonium and h^'drogen wc can witness such an explosion tliat tlie dead ^vill come to life. Wc pray it may be so! 
Lct*5 start with our class officers! AVc do have a president, four Wce-prcsJdcnts and a trensurcr in addition to the t>pc pusher. Tlicre arc two more years to R-Day, boj-s! What do you say to lighting the candle in the window and bringing about that rebirth? If you will look back into your files you should find a Itst of men In your territory and your college. How about digging it out and starting a campaign of interest? If R-Day is to be a successful invasion of Notre Dame by '33 men, then we have to start to \vork NOW! 
We have a few weeks until our next deadline for the ALUMNUS—the deadline is December I. Tliat means that we mus: have all of your ma­terial not later than November 23 so that we can do our own work on it. Let's start a battle of letters across the country. If we can build this column back to where it was a year or two ago, we'll have a successful R-Day. But ALL OF YOU ^vill make it possible. ^Vitliout your help we can do nothing. 
It's been years since we heard from AHTCH SALEH, but a few months ago he WTOte us from ^Vashtngloo. Here is MittJi's letter: 
Jr., '51, and Joe Kigali, Sr., '26. 
"Hold on to your hat! I'm checking in agmn with a little news after all these montlis (or has it been years?). 
"Last year I was involuntarily recalled to active dut>' in the Navy, and have been stationed here in the Bureau of Ordnance, Na\'y Deportment, ^Vashington, D. C. It was quite a blow to pull up stakes again and return to the sen'ice, but we have tried to make the best of it. '^Ve' means Del and Helen Marie, our 14-month-old daughter and myself. (She's past 2 now!) 
"I expect to be released later this year and we plan to return to the home town of Tyler, Deep in the Heart of Texas. 
"Del and I made the Notre Dame-Penn game last season via the Notre Dame Club Special to Philadelphia. I was hoping that you and Dr. Scholz would board the train when wc stopped jn Baltimore to pick up a few more passengers." 
It was 50od to hear from >-ou, Mitch. You see wc did receive the letter, but we hope you understand why it was delayed in transmission. Incidentally, why didn't you ever make that 40­mile trip to Baltimore in two years? Delighted to hear about that rank, Lt. Commander! 
ED KILMURRAY and his good wife welcomed the birth of Maureen Ann back last July- To htm Wc send our very best congratulations. 
^\^lilc we were at Notre Dame In June we spent a good deal of time with JIM DOYLE of Chicago. On o»ir return Jim wrote us a word about GEORGE MENARD which he thought would be of interest to all of you. It seems that George (you all remember that voice in the Glee Club) is doing big things in TV out Chi­cago way. He got quite a blow for his "George Menard's Farm Town U.S.A." program in the 
"Clliicago Tribune" TV Column. Our best, George! 
And so that's it! We sit and we wait! Will the '35ers come through? 
1936 
A. H. Afoorman 97 Moran Detroit 30, Mich. 

JAMES J. SHERRY has been appointed as­sistant director of purchases for the Buick &fo:or 
 Ebiihurst Country' Club. Foursome at the  is Paul Kigali, '33, Joe Nolan, Joe Kigali, 
Di\-i5ion of General Motors in Flint, Michigan. WAYNE MILLNER has been signed as end coach by the Washington Redskins for the coming season. (Ed. Note: LEE MOORMAN has terminated his employment as Special Attorney for the Bureau of Internal Revenue to become aiHlJated with the firm of Berry, Stevens and Moorman in Detroit, 
Mich.—J. C.) 
1937 
Paul Foley IbfacManus, John and Adams, Inc. Fisher Building Detroit 2, Micfa. 

TONY O'BOYLE is vacationing for a few weeks in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Isles. 
R. PARKER SULLIVAN has been appointed General Traffic Superintendent of the General Telephone Company of the Southwest. Sulli\'aD resides In Son Angcio, Texas. 
VINCENT G. PROBST has been named to head a new direct Factory Branch Warehouse of the Nelson Stud Welding Di\'ision of Gregory Industries, Inc. The brandi ^rarehousc will be located at 1416 Blake Street, Denver, Colorado. 
1938 
Charles M. Callahan Sports Publicity Dept. Notre Dame^ Ind. 

Hoskins & Sells, Certified Public Accountants, announce that THO.NLVS J- GRAVES has been admitted as a member of the firm. The firm is located in CbicagOf 111. 
F. ^V. WTLLIAMSON, JR., has taken over a new territory for the General Electric Co. and is now siluated at 161 ^V. Wisconsin Ave., Room 5032, Mihvaukcc 3, Wis. 
FRANCIS P. COSGROVE has accepted a posi­tion at the Uni\*ersity of Nebraska. He will be concerned with pharmaceutical education in the graduate school. 
will long rewembcr the fine time experieoced, and this one should be even finer. More plans later. 1942 ALFRED O. KIEFER has opened his own phar­^Mlliam E. Scanlan macy at 201 South Seventh Sueet, Dade City, 
400 E. nith St. 
REUNION 
JUNEII-12^13 

1939 
Vince DeCourscy 
1917 Elizabeth 
Kansas Qty 2, Kansas 

If it wasn't for the football team making an occasional excursion into this part of the country* it would almost be impossible to keep track of some of the boys. 
The game at Norman, Oklahoma, brought out most of the Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas contingent and I had the good fortune to see a fpw of them. Had a chance to shake hands with PHIL NORTH before the game; TEX HAGGAR was up from Dallas with his brother; TOM FOY in from New Mexico. Incidentally the game was Just fine, al .hough I imagine the players felt a little parboiled. 
Have word from FRANK O'LAUGHLIN, first time in years. He has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship for a year's study in Naples, Italy, 
and sailed September 4 with his lamily (wife and 
six-year-old son) from Nc^v York. Frank is a faculty member of Hobart University, Geneva, New York. 
If NORM JANDOLI sees this I hope he un­derstands that sometimes printing schedules and other things delayed his now two-month-old lelter from seeing publication. Hope this gives some sort of redress. Norm goes into a long period of reminiscence about football, Saturday steaks, and of all things the movies at AVashington Hall. (It seems he saw most of them again during the war —and has probably seen them again over tele­
vision.) Norm wants to know what has happened to JOHN McDONOUGH and TOM AfcINTYRE —so would I. 
Norm Was with a lumber company until he accepted a position with the 11th Airborne Di^a­sion and after travels through the islands of the 
Pacific and a sojourn in Japan, returned to the states and is now in the insurance business at Newark. He lives at 485 Linden Place, Orange, New Jersey. 
TTiat's about all the news. But it is not too early to put down a remembrance date—the fifteenth (Gad!) reunion is scheduled for June of 1954. Those who were at the reunion in 1949 Florida. 
• HARVEY G. FOSTER is the new special agent in cliargc of the Federal Bureau of Investigation office in Cincinnati. 
1940 
Richard Burke 
146 Paxton Dr. 
South Bend, Ind. 

LA\VRENCE I. FERGUSON was ordained to the Anglican priesthood this past summer in Milwaukee by the Right Reverend Donald H. V. Hallock, Bishop of Milwaukee. 
THOMAS J. MINOGUE received a Bachelor of Laws dcttree from St. John's University on June 14, 1953. 
AVILLIAM G. O'HARE, JR., has moved to 4513 Russell Dr., Austin, Texas, to take over as Dean of the College of Commerce at St. Edward's University. Bill now has two young sons, William G., Ill, 3, and Gregory, 1. 
JOHN E. DeMOSS has left the Notre Dame faculty to take over as Chief Metallurgist for the Ke>'stone Carbon Company, Inc., of St. Mary's, PennsyK-ania. 
DAVID BERNARD has been in General Hos­pital, Los Angeles, for several months with polio. 
JOHN F. SCHRODER, S.J., was ordained to the Priesthood this past June at Spring Hill Col­lege, Mobile, Alabama, ' by His Excellency, the Most Reverend Thomas J. Toolen. At present Father Schroder is studying theology at St. Mary's College, St. Mary's, Kansas. 
JOHN W. ME^VNEY has been appointed film director for telension station KUHT in Houston, Texas. 
1941 
John ^V. Patterson, Jr. 434 Burlington Rd. Pittsburgh, Pa. 

LEROY ^VIESCILVUS has been appointed Dis­trict Manager of the American IVhcelabrator & Equipment Corporation's Birmingham sales oSicc. Mr. and Mrs. Wieschaus and their five children are now living at 447 Homer Drive, Birmingham, Alabama. 
GEORGE F. MELTZER, '41, and his wife re­cently adopted a daughter, Afary Theresa, who was born ilay 16. 
Chicago 28, lU. 

1943 
John L. ^^ggins, 
1140} Rupley Lane 
Dallas, Texas 

At the recent fiotrc Dame-Oklahoma football game the only classmate I saw ^vas BILL EARLEV, who u-as helping Coach Leahy run the >ictorious Irish against the Sooners on a 94­degree afternoon. At the pfp rally the night before the game I saw AfIKE CARR and fa^ wife, in from Indianapolis for the big game. At the rally Father Hesburgh was made an honorary Indian Chief and presented with a ceremcnlaJ head dress—probably the fanciest biretta he now o^v•ns! 
^VhIIc Notre Dame was operating in Norman, Oklahoma, BUD DUDLEY, ne*v Athledc Director at Villanova (and recently-elected President of the 1943 Class) had his team in Austin, Texas' 96­dcgree heat facing the University of Texas. Bud bos received far-flung publicity for his exceptional job of rebuilding VHIanova's football fortunes. He recently, on the season opener, drew about 95,0(M) fans by selling a block of 60,000 U'ckets to a local supermarket. He recently gave a talk to the New York Football AVrltcrs' Association to explain the methods of his high-powered operation. 
The last issue of the ALUMNUS contained the names of the Reunion regbtrants. For those of you who could not attend we will briefly explain what took place over the BIG week-end. Registra­tions began on Friday morning and several of the arrivals from the East began to appear. For the first time, the Alumni Office decided to try a single fee registration that covered the complete cost of the week-end. For a fee of 520 the regis­trant received his meals, lodging, greens fees, class^ cap, etc, TTiis plan was met with complete ap­prox-al, and probably will be continued in the future. The Classes of 1943 and 1948 were lodged in Dillon Hall; the Rec Room was converted into a beer hall and began operating at 10 a.m. Fri­day. Sandwiches were available at noontnne. Since most re'unioneers arrived late Friday the opening event was scheduled for Friday evening. Roslc's ser\'ed a spaghetti and meat ball dinner in the Vet Rec Hall. It was at this affair that the Blue and Gold tickets for Class Officers were announced and elected. The new administration was NOT responsible for the meat balls on Friday despite any claims that might be made. It so happened that the Congregation had just finished a retreat and had a special dispensation, applicable to the entire Notre Dame area, which allowed 
meat on Friday. It has been the Alumni Associa-
Group photo of Akron Club stag party held in early September for alumn!, students and incoming fresluncn. 
November-December, 1953 
tion's plan to hold clccliODS every five years, and 
•for this reason the following slates were offered: 
BLUE TICKET GOLD TICKET 
Bud Dud!c>-Herb Mchon President Bill Tracy Ed Nagle V-P (East) Jerry Fccn-y Ed Kone>' V-P (Midwest) John Lanahan Julian Durbin V-P (South) Jack Tallclt Don Miller V-P (Far West) Jack ^\'^gg^IIs Jack ^\'iggins Secrctar>' Don Hcllzd Pete iforitz Treasurer 
By a slim margin the Blues were awarded the decision. And, in the ballolins, FRANK KAISER out-Eiscnhowcred the General's Minnesota prlman.­performance by polling an astonishin*; number of write-in votes, just a few shy of the majority. For this reason the Class of 1943 has instructed the Alumni Ofiicc that the office of Ambassador of Good Will has been created and the first officer is FR.\NK KAISER. Wi.U Frank's unbounded Io>'aIty to the Universitv. I am sure that he wJU hold the office perpetually. 

After Frida\''s dtnn-r the group moi'cd back tn tiic Rcc Hall at Dillon. It seemed that this particular Reunion was brttcr than the 5-Year Re­union in that all of the activity was centered on campus and the group was held together for the entire week-end. 
Saturday morning F.ATHER JOHN L\7CCH, Prefect of Religion in our campus days, read the Class Mass in remembrance of the living and ' deceased members of the Class. After the Gospel Father read the list of the deceased. This list is the most accurate we have at this time, and 1 would appreciate your writing either to me or to the Alumni Office to make modifications. 
DECEASED ME.MBERS CL.\SS OF 1943 John Baittle Charles E. Brbcau Mto W. Cappello Thomas J. Collins John E. Cox Edward E. Doyle John R. Fcltcs Robrrt A. Fischer Nicholas S. Gulj'assy Hcrschel Hortcn Paul J. Kashmcr Jeremiah J. Killigrew Charles T. Lewis James C McGoIdrick John J. McKcon Edu-ard D, McKim Ra>-mond J. McManus Paul M. Malloy George E. Murphy Wa^Tie J. 0*Connor Edward F. Palman Joseph \V. Re^-nolds John WTielan John H. \\lechman 
Please remember these men at Mass and in your prayers. 

Immediately after the Class Mass the Class Picture was snapped on the Library- Steps. This picture was published in the last issue of the ALUMXUS. At noon a box luncli was served in the P.ec Ifall, and due to the exceptionally fine weather' prcx'ailing over the week-end most of the lunclies and refreshments were consumed in the courtyards between Alumni and Dillon Halls. Later in the afternoon there was golf and soft­ball. In the golf department the class of 1943 did quite well. BOB ROGERS was the 36-hoIe 
champion and BILL EARLEY was runner-up in the 18<hole gross diampionship. In baseball a scrub match was taken 11-6 by the MUELL­MAXS over the MORG GREENS. Many of the men walked around the campus to inspect the 
Participants of the annua] retreat for members of the Xotre Dame Club of Washington, 
D. C. First row, L. to R.: Valentine Dcalc, *39, Father O'Neill, '34, Paul TuIIy, '39, Father Ho>i-ard Kenna, '26, Leo Mulqueen, '19. Middle row: Charles Horan, '34, Joe Fitzmaurice, '36, Joseph Clark, '33, John Kcnkcl, '33, Robert Cavanaugh, '36. Top row: 
Victor Mcrsch, '19, Harr>* Kirk, '13, John Wright and Tom McKevitt, '32, Larr>- Moore, '29. 
new buildings, particularly the exceptional O'Shaughnessy Liberal Arts Building and the Nieuwland Science Hall. On Saturday evening the traditional banquet was held at whicli Father Hesburgh was the principal speaker. It was at this dinner that the 25-Year Reunion class entered in spectacular fashion led by a brass band. 
And that was the program, as on Sunday everyone left for home. There is no need to dwell on names since you have seen them pub­lished in the last issue. Suffice to say they are all doing tvell—and each and cver>'one there made you feel as if you were the closest of friends. 

A couple of recent marriages to report are those of BILL UNG^VSHICK and of ED JiA^­RAHAN. 
FR^VNK STUART is now with Dolan Steel Company of Bridgeport, Conn. His new address is 11 Bcechwf>od Terrace, Wellesley, Mass. 

The Alumni Office is going to attempt an Alumni gathering after the football games this year. An announcrment will be made during the games designating a gate at which x-arious class groups will meet. So, listen for that an­nouncement. 
REV. WILLIAM CURTIS is the new chaplain at Lowry Air Force Base in Denver, Colorado. 
JOHN R. BATY, LL.B., has terminated his association with the Office of the .\ttorne>' of the State of Missouri and opened an office for the general practice of law at 509 Scarritt Building, Kansas City G, Mo. 
WILLIAM L. • HERZOG has been transferred to Long Beach, California, by IBM and' is now residing at 5547 St. Irmo Walk with wife >Iaril>-n, daughter Susan, 4, and son Alark Edward, 1. He ran across BILL WALDNER, who was straightening out a hospital air conditioning sys­
. tem out there. 
1944 
George Barisdllo, 
515 5ih Ave. 
Bradlo' Beach, N. J. 

The bold t>pc at the head of this column an­nounces the fact tliat our long-awaited ten-year 
reunion is now only a matter of months away! It is to be hoped that the prcliminar>- arrange­ments and plans arc being made now by each of our classma cs so that we'll ha\c a record turn­out at XD next June II, 12 and 13. Your secre­tary was privileged to attend the Second Class Secrctaiics' Conference on the campus this past June and had an opportunity at that time to obscrx'e this year's crop of reunionitrs. They seemed literally to be having the GREATEST time of their lives; that may be a slight over­statement, but only slightly so! Those who were able to make our 5-year reunion will immediately recall the unforgettable x*eekcnd. We're sure they'll al! be back; and wc do hope that those who weren't able to be at the reunion back in '49 will show at this coming get-together. You're getting plenty of advance "warning," so be thinking about it, circle the dates on your '54 calendar and, like Christmas shopping, make your plans to attend EARLY so there won't be last-minute disappointments and regrets. 

Class "Prcxy" DICK DOERMER came over to ND from Fort Wayne last June and wc spent some- time diiscussing plans for the reunion. JOHN LYNCH, who is now Managing Editor of the Ave Maria has consented to be local con­tact for us as arrangements take shape. Wc hope to have City Chairmen, or "recruiters," in the larger diJcs to help round up the gang (any Volunteers?). More on this later. 
Reports were filed from New York, Ohio, Michigan and California, so into the news on your secretary's desk: 
FRANK a\RVER (Altona, X. V.) heartily en­

dorses BILL TALBOT'S sugsesiion of a '44 Donii-, 
recently reported in this column. "Back in Feb­
ruary, 1944," says Frank, "I plugged for a Jittle 
rccognirion for our class at that commencement 
time. I suggested that at least a picture of each 
graduate appear with the story in the Scholastic. 
What wc got was a cover picture of TOMMY 
SHELLWORTH, m>-self and Rx\OUL DEMAM­
BEY departing from campus. So I hope that Something very worlhwhile results from the new plan." Frank, who is a salesman for Elcctrotux, married Mar>" Herman of Carnegie (Pittsburgh). Pa., on November 25, 1950; thry have two sons. Michael and .Mark, and expect a third at Christ­mas-time, lie sends his best to his brother Knights of Columbus of '44 and is looking for­ward to the reunion with the "old-timcrs" come June. 
"TO.MMV" KERRIGAN (110 Bouquet Ave.. Youngstown, Ohio), is another '44er who reports he'll be on hand in June. He recalls that the gang who played basketball at the "Rock" pledged ta have a rvpeat game at the lO-ycar reunion. Following tafcf note: MIKE KELLEY, DAN CASEY, GENE PIL^WVSKI, LEO L.\RDIE, FR.\NK VIGNOL.\. STR.\TTE COORL.\S, BOB BURKE and JIM PL.\TT. Tom was up at Oican, N. Y.. recently and ran into NICK AMATO who is teaching History* at St. Bona­venture, and he reports seeing GRIFF ALLEN regularly at the Youngstown Notre Dame Club weekly lunches. 
JI.M DANAHER, who is with Ford at Dear­bom, Michigan, checked in with another of his welcome reports. Jim is no longer with the advertising agency of Brooke. Smith, French and Dorrance, but is now associated with "Radio and Television Relations," a new department of the Ford Motor Company. He's engaged in con­tact work with radio and TV station managers and news editors throughout the country; conse­quently, much travel duty. Hci has three off­spring and is expecting a fourth in October. (Sounds like a likely candidate for "the must fathered man" of the class. Title to be con­ferred on the winnah at the reunion!) Jim ex­tends an invitation to any of the boys who may be in the Detroit area to drop in at the Ford Rotunda, look him up, and take a tour of the Ford assembly line, which is quite something. 
BILL SCHEUCH (708 36th Street, Manhattan Beach, California), is still another who hopes to be on tap in June. Bill is with North American Aviation in the Guided Missile Division, Test Laboratory, and has two children. Mike (for J. MICHAEL MALLOY) and Patty Lou. "Believe the last classmate I saw," wriles Bill, *'was JIM PLAIT. He had just been married and w*as at Camp Pendleton awaiting orders for Korea. He st-r\ed a good hitch in World War II 
Dearborn CJub Coniniunion Breakfast, Left to right: Father Tom O'DonnclI, HI, Pete Kcman, M9, Prcs., Jerry Sarb, M8, Past President. 
Group photo of the Canton Club's annual picnic. 

(Navy), went back to Northwestern for a law degree, found the Naval Resen'c too dull and joined the Marine Rcser\c!! This is probably old news to many Clucagoans—which brings mc to wonder at what happened to GENE PILAW­SKI? .Aho would like to hear some news of RED BURKE. .MIKE MALLOY, JOE FIEWEG­ER, BILL JOHNSTON—we used to exchange Christmas cards but even that I guess became too mucli of a chore!!!" (We agree. Bill, it's a shame to lose contact with the gang, but thanks to our reunions—though only once every* five years—we arc able to renew those wonderful friendships, relive those unforgettable days be­neath the Golden Dome, and exchange personal experiences and events that have taken place with all of us in the inter\'ening years.) 
Bill endorses Talbot's suggestion of a '44 DOME, and we agree it is a ver>* excellent idea. It's diflicult. however, setting up the details for such a project through our ALUMNUS column, so a full discussion of the plan should be had at the reunion. In the meantime, if any would care to contact BILL TALBOT direct on his sugges­tion, his address is 300 Main Street, White Plains, N. Y. 
Received an announcement from DR. DANIEL 

J. ROURKE who has opened his office for the practice of Internal Medicine at 1339 Union Street, Schenectady, New York. . . . ^Vc were saddened to learn of the passing of JIM Mc­DONOUGH'S-father. (Jim was one of four :ons to graduate from ND). 
WALL/\CE P. CHRISTMAN won the annual Green Bay-Brown County Golf Tournament on September 5, 6, 7, 1953. 
F. R. BEJVUDINE has been appointed manager of the industrial engineering department of the Ball-Band Plant oi Mishawaka, Ind. lie now resides at HOI Rose St., South Bend. 
Air Force Capt. FREDERICK E. LOESCHER, class of *44, has been assigned as squadron com­mander of the 2843rd Depot Wing at Olmsted Air Force Base. He had formerly been stationed at Camp Stoneman, Calif. 
Now before closing, and without fear of being criticized, redundant, and repetitious, we say again: PLAS .VOW TO ATTE.\D OUR 10-YE/\R REUNION NEXT JUNE!!!!! 
1945 
Al Lcimez 
122 Tullamore Rd. 
Garden City, N. Y. 

TflEKE ARE ALU'AYS THE SLOU': 
Our class treasury is growing pretty fast, thanks to those who remembered to send in their dues. However, we stiU have quite a few who arc a Jiitlc slow, and who have not gotten around to doing what they would like—to send in their dues, and get this pest Al off their backs!! We want to extend our thanks to the following men who, in addition to those men whose names were printed in the last two issues of the ALUMNUS, have sent in tfieir dues: 
RUDOLPH ANDERSON, THOMAS BRUN­D.AGE, JOHN CARON. BILL CASTLE. DAVE CHAAfPION, TO.M CLIFFORD, JLM CLYNES, GERRY COSGROVE, CLARK FISHER, CHARLES FITZGIBBONS, JOHN FLEAKA, ED­WARD FORTIER. PAT FILLEY, BOB GRIF­FEN, JOHN GUTHERIE, JOHN HORRIGAN, JOHN JOHNSON. JOHN KEARN'Y. ILVYMOND KOPITUK, JAMES LAMB, JOHN LAWSON, LOUIS L/\UTH. FR.\NK LUICVS. ROBERT McaVRTHY. BILL McNElL, FRANCIS MA­LONE. CLIFF MARKS. PAT MAZZ.\, JOHN MEYER, R^\YMOND .MICHOLS. THOM.VS NO­L.\N, JIM O'CONNOR. JOHN O'ROURKE, FARRE "TEX" PEQUIGNEY, ERNIE R/\USCH­ER, ROBERT REARDON. OLINDO ROSON­ELLL LEO RUOF, JOHN RYAN, DICK SA­DOWSKI. BERNIE SCHOO, JI.M SCHWEICK­ERT, BOB SCHIEL. JACK TRE.\CY, JOSEPH "JD " USINA and DICK ^VTHTING. 
NROTC PLE.\SE TAKE SPECIAL NOTE: 
Unlike 1950, the next reunion of the NROTC '45 group will be' held in coniunction with the rest of the *45 class, in June of 1955. Plans are already undcnvay for the gala reunion, with spe­cial events sudt as a smoker or a dinner solely for NROTC men. The reunion will be for ALL men of the "45 class—and no one better stay home!! Here arc some of the early letters on the subject: 
From J. D. USINA: "Thanks for your letter. I have been much on the hop here what with the fleet—IOWA and four destroyers in Oslo for a few days and then the normal run of things. That might help ex­plain a slight delay in answering. 
"I feel the NROTC should combine with the regular reunion from here on and be with the rest of llie '45ers—perhaps with a few functions just for the NROTC. To my knowledge there are no plans undenvay or anticipated by the NROTCcrs for any reunions in the future. 
"I am completely out of touch with the class at present and so I am not even sure of Father Carey's whereabouts, but I think he would still have his interest as before. As for an NROTC aide, I would suggest a note to BILL KLE\( at 528 Manchester Drive, South Bend, Indiana, saying I had suggested him as a class contact and he might be able to help you in the planning and organization. 
"If I am in the States come reunion time and can make it, you bet your life I will be there. If there is anything more I can do from long range would be happy to try. Do try Bill Klem as he is the best one I know of at 
FRANK X. O'NEIL, '30, Long Beach, Calif., has been in the employ of Stand­ard Oil Co., since graduation. 
November-December, 1953 

A portion of the 225 who enjoyed the New York Club's Notre Dame Night at Ebbetts Field. (First picture, L. to R.: Jim Clynes, Jr., "Bud" Mulvey, and John Duffy. (Second picture, seated, L. to R.): Charlie Koegler, Joe Dittrich, Jr., Joseph Dittrich, Sr., T. J. Cuff, Charles Quinn, Mrs. Quinn, Albert J. Wass and James Rooney. 
the moment. My best regards to all the class.*' 
From BILL KLEM: "I know you have been receiving plenty of excuses over tbe last few weeks so I have no intention ot adding mine to your long list. Your letter of recent date ar­ri\'ed and I sec that J. D. USINA still remem­bers his old friends e\'cn though he is in Oslo, Nonvay. In accordance with his \%'ishes and yours, I will be glad to be the coordinator for the NROTC in the 1953 reunion, but I must warn 
J. D. to remain out of tlic country or risk being on a committee; that is a promise!! 
"This note is Intended only to be my acceptance of the Job—a job I accept with pleasure, AI, and I will vrritc you later for details after the reunion plans become more firm. Best of luck to you and all In the class.'* 
From JIM CLYNES: "I received your latest communication regarding our reunion. I think it it an excellent idea to combine with the NROTC members of our class. 
**I would be only too happy to aid in any way in connection with the reunion. I sec by your letter that you have not received much cooperation dues-wise from tlic members of the class. This docs not amaze me since I received the same lack of cooperation from the members of the Notre Dame Club of New York." 
CONCLUSIO.V: It's going to be a swell reunion with the WTIOLE class—NROTC—civ\ies, gradu­ates, fellows w*ho didn't make it, and those who aren't sure—attending en masse. With a few real helpful hands integrating the work ahead, we'll sail in!!! 

Mrs, George Hughes (seated center) with her Notre Dame "medical" family of Colum­bus, O. All five sons are doctors and all received bachelor of science degrees from ND. 
L. to R.: Joseph, '31; Robert, '45; Martha, daughter; Thomas, '38; Mrs. Bergman, daughter; Patrick, '48; Henry, *41, 
40 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTMENT: From CLARKSON S. FISHER: "Sorry to be so late In sending my dues but because of the notices and letters being sent to my old address, I learned of tliem being due only yesterday. My new address is 23 E. Highland Avenue, Atlantic Heights, New Jersey. Thanks for your patience." 
From JOSEPH M. SYLVESTER: "I surrender as a result of your latest edition. Here's my dues. Best regards." • 
From CLIFF MARKS: "Contrary to what you say, I am always the last to leave a party but I always try to out-fumble when the check arrives. You have caught me—enclosed find one buck. 
"By the way, I'm still out at MAC and I ha\*c run into John Parchem and Dan O'Rourke recently. Hank Payne lives a couple of blocks away. Have you e\'er heard from Ken Schultz?" {Cliff, we got word from Ken back In February, 1951, but nothing more since. He'U write very soon now since I fust got a note off to him. As for JOHNNY PARCHEM, If you see him, tell him I'd love to hear from him, and what he's doing, a^ong with news of how Dottie, his wife, and his little girli are doing. Best of luck to you, Al.) 
From WILLIAM J. McNEIL: "Herein please find the $1 for my due*. Sorry I forgot about it this long. Do hope that the other fellows of the class have had the good luck and are as happy as I have been with my field of architecture." (Bill's In the Kahl Building, Davenport, Iowa.} 
From RAY AUCHOLS: "I don't believe that we had ever met before, but I would like to con" gratulate you upon the fine work ^^•hich you have done in regard to the class of 1945. I left Notre Damr in February of 1945, got my medical degree at George Washington, have spent a few years in the Air Force, and currently am specializing in orthopedic surgery. I am scliedulcd to go to Shrcve­port, Louisiana, in December where I will do a year of crippled children's work. In the meantime, I have become married and have two children. 
"I am happy to enclose a clieck for one dollar, and please keep me on your mailing list. I would like to extend my regards tn aH my old classmates, and cspcdally RAY BADDOUR, with whom I shared the ardours of biochemistry." 
From RICHARD L. \\'HrnNG: "Sure don't want to be known as a 'party poopcr,* so please accept the enclosed check to bring me up to date. Keep up the good work and extend my best wishes to the rest of the fellows." 
From LOU LAtJTH: "I sincerely regret that I have not had time to send in the dues. I ha\*e been so busy organizing my new store and being father to five kids, that It has slipped my mind. 
"Since campus days I've really been bouncing around. Started out with a grocery chain and eventually headed the purchasing department . . . spent a couple of months in an advertising agency as sales manager . . . then took over the sales managership of a local auto dealer . . . finally I counted noses and finding that by now we had five children (Connie, Patrick, Kathy, Irene, and Mike} I decided I'd better buy baby things whole­sale, so I opened the KIDDIE KORNER on July 2, 1953. ^Ve'rc going great guns, so far. I have to keep my own books, etc, etc., so Notre Dame stood me well. If any of tlie fellows are ever out this way, please tell them to stop and see me." (Dear Lou, hope you have enough clothes left over to sell after outfitting your wonderful family. Con­gratulations, and good luck in ever>-thing. Regards, Al.) 
From JIM SCHAFFER: "Very effective, Al." 
From PATRICK A. MAZ2A: "I'm one of your many classmates who has attempted to grey you prematurely. I've been busy but not too busy that I can't jot a few words and send a small check. Your last appeal certainly got me off my dead ^-ou-know-what. (Ed. Note: Can't guess—AVHAT is it?) 
"Just a little past history on one long lost mem­ber of '45. I entered Jefferson Medical Center of Philadelphia in '46, graduating In 1950. I interned at St. Joseph's Hospital in Reading, Pa., and then spent two years in the Air Force. I was separated in July of this year. I opened my offices for the practice of General Medicine in August of this year, and as could be expected, things are slow but I'm not discouraged yet. 
"I was married in April of '51 to Marguerite Davy, a graduate of St. Mary's of the ^\^oods In Tcrre Haute. We have one son, 11 months old. 
who looks like a fullback already. I hope this news fills in a bit. Concerning the class reunion, if at all possible, Til be there with bells on. Vm look­ing fonvard to seeing the old gang with eager anticipation.'* (Good luck, Pat, on your new ven­ture into general practice. Your ofltcc at 522 North Tenth Street, Reading, Pa., would be my calling place cverytimc I get a headache, if It weren't so far from New York. Don't forget that the Brst year is always the hardest. Keep up the good work. Al.) 
From BERNIE SCHOO: "During my \-acation my wife and I spent three days in New York with Earl Englcrt and his family. We visited many honky tonks, restaurants, etc., and had dinner one evening with BILL TALBOT. Earl appears very happy with his wife, four children, and a.new home. Bill is still wandering around socially giving all the girls a break. 
"From New York we visited Quebec, Montreal. Syracuse, Niagara Falls, and Cleveland. Had a fine two weeks motoring, and leaving our three children home with a baby sitter. Best regards." 
From FR.\NK PENDARVIS: "Enclosed please find my long-overdue class dues and apologies for being so late. I'm not sure whether I'll make the reunion (it's a long way to South Bend from here), but your efforts as class secretary have been appreciattfd. 
"After leaving ND in 1945. I put in a short period of sea duty with the Navy before settling down in my home town of Houston, working with an oil company. After working in various parts of South Texas, and getting married in the process, I was moved to California about t\^'o years ago, and have divided my time between upholding the name of Texas and of Notre Dame. Best regards to the class of '45." 
From PAT FILLEY: "Sorr>' to keep you waiting. I just plum forgot about it. Thanks for the reminder. Football season is upon us and naturally we're keeping; busy." (Pat's address is c/o Cornell University, Athletic Association, Ithaca. New York.) 

From MRS. FR.\NIC MILLER: "I am enclosing the dues for Frank who is on a naval cruise right now. I notice that you work at Sperry Gyroscope Company. Until last year I'm afraid I didn't even know what a gyroscope was. but now it Is pretty important to us. Ever>'timc It goes out of commis­sion it means the '880' doesn't have to leave on another trip, so of course wc all root that they are not able to fix it. Unfortunately, they usu­ally do. 
"I'm flying to Norfolk tomorrow lo spend twelve days »\ith Frank before he leaves for Africa. I might add for your class column that we have a little girl Molly—age 3." 
From JOHN F. L/\WSON: "I enjoy reading your column in the xVLUMNUS. I plan to attend the next reunion and am willing to volunteer for any assistance the oflicers may need at that time." 
From FR/\NCIS FITZGIBBONS: "I have a little information on some of the class members which I will pass on for whatever it may be worth. BOB O'TOOLE is now working in an executive capacity in the Pullman Bank of Chi­cago. Bob's wife is from Fort Dodge, Iowa, and we see Bob and his wife when they come out to Iowa. Wc just enjoyed a nice weekend with them at our famous Iowa Great Lakes. Bob's wife and mine were childhood friends at Fort Dodge. 
"BOB SINKLE finished Har\-ard Law School and is now associated with his father' in the contracting business in Youngstown, Ohio. I usu­ally hear from Bob around Christmas time but have not seen him since 1946. 
"BOB MORRISSEY was ordained a priest in the Benedictine order this past May and is now known as' Father Diinstan Morrisscy. After our ' graduation in 1945 Bob and I roomed together in Washington, D. C. Bob was then attending the Foreign Ser\'icc School of the State Depart­ment and I was attending night school at George­town University Law School and working for the Federal Power Commission. Bob became a Vice-Consul^^ and was sent to Alexandria, Egypt. Bob resigned from the State Department after sex'eral months and traveled In Europe for about a year before entering the seminary* at St. Bede Abbey in Peru, Illinois. I understand that Bob Is very-happy and I know he will make an excellent priest. Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell who was my excellent world history professor at Notre Dame 
FRANK L. LINTON, '34 

Frank L. Linton, '34, has recently been appointed Comptroller of the Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation, New York City. He joined Allied in 1946j immediately after the Second World War, and has held various posi­tions in the Accounting Department since that time. 
Commissioned in the summer of 19413 Frank was a finance officer with the 33rd Infantr\' Division. Subse­quently, he was transferred to Wright Field, Ohio, and served as a contract­ing officer administering advance pay­ments until discharge in 1946 as Lieu­tenant Colonel. 
Prior to thq war he worked in the industrial engineering department at Armour and Company in the Chicago stockyards in time study and labor cost control work. In 1951 Frank re­ceived his LL.B. from Fordham. 
Is also at St. Bcdc's teaching history and is an Oblate NoWce in the order. 
"I frequently see Notre Dame graduates in this area but we do not have a Notre Dame Club In the Immediate area. RcVRL D. BAGAN of the class of '40 owns an excellent men's cloth­ing store in Estherxille and JIM KENNEDY of '49 also practices law in Esther.'ille. 
"As stated above, after graduation I went to Washington, D. C , for two years and then re­turned to Iowa and entered the University of Iowa Law School. I received my law degree In the spring of 1949 and have been associated in the practice with my brother Leo since that date. I married Evelyn Murray and we now have two bo>'s and a girl.. Our oldest boy'is three today. Evie attended St. Mary's while I was at Notre Dame and finished at Iowa University. Best per­sonal regards." , 
From JIM O'CONNOR: "Would you please change my address to 1242 ~ Northlawn Drive. Fort Wayne, Indiana. I'm sorry to be so late with this dollar but I've been located'at several other places ^before I finally settled for good here In Fort Wayne, and my mail hasn't ahvays fol­lowed me. I'm looking fonv'ard to attending the reunion in '55. I'll sec you then." 
From DAVE CHAMPION: "I have just re­ceived your letter subject 'party-pooper* and I am 5orr\' to be arrears in my dues. I don't have any of that U.S.A. green stuff but am en­closing a ten peso note which Is worth slightly more than a buck. At the present rate of ex­change, you will pick up approximately 15 cents for interest and your troubles. (Note: Dave's note came from Mexico City, where he is Execu­tive Vice President of Soldaduras Y Equ^os de Mexico, S. A.) 
"I have been In Mexico since the first of the year working for an outfit which is a subsidiary of our company in the Slates. As you can appre­ciate, my mail and everything else gets pretty Well fouled up. This is the fourth city we have lived in since our marriage six years ago and wc are getting used to the confusion of our change of address. Should you have any correspondence for me, I would suggest you write it in care of the company on the letterhead. 
"Our setup here Is that wc have a plant making welding rods in Mexico City and we sell them along with all sorts of accessory items throughout the Republic. We hope to use this plant as an export plant to Central and South America as time goes on. 'We came very well equipped for this move, my wife and I having had no Spanish in school. We are getting along fine now but when wc get stumped we ask one of our three kids what does such and such mean In English and they straighten us out. The youngest says vcr>' little, but whatever it is, it's In Spanish. 
"I hope to be back in the United States in time for the reunion, but If not, I wish you every success for a swell affair. Vou can't go too far wrong knowing some of the members of that class!! If any of the class are coming this way, tell them to look us up. We have become pretty good guides and know our way around some of the better saloons." 
From BOB RIORD.AN: "Sorry I'm so tardy! I will do better. Best regards." 
From JOHN FLEAKA: "Your stimulating re­minder has brought another stray sheep to the fold. May I apologize and submit my humble dollar. Tliere was and is no excuse for my not writing. Now for a little past history of thj^ stray sheep that almost strayed too far. 
"On April 27, 1952, I was marrletl to JIIss Sophie Opris of Struthers, Ohio. I am expecting to become a father in January. I am employed In the Accounting Department of the United States Steel Company in this city (Youngstown, Ohio). Every once in a while I see Hcrble Coleman; he Is located in Canton, Ohio, and is Sales Manager for a Lincoln-Mercury dealer in that city. Herble goes around at about 285 pounds. 
"I can just feel the anticipation mounting for the 1955 reunion, and I am waiting most eagerly for this affair to become a reality.** 
From JACK TREACY: "Just now got your much-traveled letter. I was just seeing how long I would remain 'lost' now that I am back teaching at Notre Dame. Since '45 my affairs have gone something like this: 1946, back to ND for masters In Chemical Engineering. . . . 1947, off to Wisconsin for a Ph.D. . . . 1950, back to ND to teach. . . . 1951, married to Mary Ann Owens. . . . 1952, Eileen arrived. . . . 1953. 'Kathleen' expected momentarily. Well, enclosed is the dues. Maybe I can be of some help in the reunion plans—If my boys stop asking ques­tions long enough to let me do something in that line. Best regards." 
From HENRY PAYNE: "Your circular letter of the 4lh reached me recently. Fortunately I didn't get one of your part>'-pooper notes, but you don't have to apologize. I'll back you up In whatever langauge you use to get that silly little dollar. 
RAYMOND J. KELLY, '15 
President Eisenhower recently ap­pointed Ra\inond J. Kelly, '1.5, as the new chairman of the Railroad Retire­ment Board in Chicago. He is a for­mer Detroit law)-er and fonner nation­al commander of the American Legion. 
Kelly, a colonel in the Coast .'^itil­ler\' Reseive, is a veteran of both World Wars and during the Second World War commanded an anti-air­craft battalion in the Pacific area. He was National Commander of the American Legion in 1939-40 and be­fore going into active militarj' service in 1942 was national director of civil­ian defense for a three-state area. 
In the early 1930's he served as counsel for Detroit's muncipally-owned street railway system. Later, he be­came the cit>''s corporation counsel and, \%'ith the exception of his ser\'ice in the war. held that position from 1933 to 1950. He js past president of Detroit Lawyer's Club, Michigan Association of Cit\- Attorney's, and Na­tional Institute of Municipal Law Of­ficen. 
Ray has two sons who are Notre Dame men — Ray Jr., graduated in '41. and Jerome received his degree this past June. 

42 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
rvcn tliongli, contrary to postal rrgs., you arc Ncndins explosives tlirough the mails. 
''As for suggestions, one thing whicli \v'ill be iibWous to you, is a large group dinner together someivhere. Personally, I'd also like to have one of the present University" 'wheels' give us a pep talk on Morally Responsible LEADERS. • 
•'I'll
 volunteer (horrid word) - to help yoil in any way I can. Wonderful to hear mention ol . 

J.
 D. Usina and XROTC. I'm lucky to claim XROTC as my school fral." 


FIXIS: . ' Well. men. I guess that is mure than enough for this issue, so I'll save most of the stulT for the next issue??? Keep in touch with me. , Best of luck to all. S'long for now.... . Al. 
1946 
jack Ten-jc Jr. 
722 S. Mcremac Dr. 
Clapton Mo. 
1947 
James E. Murphy , . 408 So. 25ih St., Apartmcni B-3, South B:nd,~ Indiana - .. 
More than fifty members of the Class of . 1947 responded lo the recent questinnnatrc so this column should set some kind of ri-cord for length and names mentioned. In the name of the class, thanks especially lo those who sent along a dollar for our class fund. The fund will he used for Mass stipends and incidental expenses of the class. Now to your letters and the neu-s. . . . 
Medics in ilic class: ED SANDERS is a sur­gical resident at the Mayo CHnic while BILL DUNX hxv a fellimship In internal medicine at the famed Rochester, Minnesota, institution. Sev­eral Notre Dame physicians taking ndv'anced training at Mayo's reccniK* had a reunion with DEAN L/\WRENCE BALDINGER of ND's Col­lege of Science at Dunn's home. ED SANDERS 

. would like to hear from BILL ^\*EBB and AR­CHIBALD KANE, hoth medics who roomed with him in Dillon Hall. E. J. POLFTOSKE recently completed two years of ser\icc with the Air Force and has started a surgical residcnc>' at a VA hospital in Los .Angeles. BILL GARNER MKin will open a surgical practice in Nei^' Al­bany, Indiana. He married Mary Crowhurst in Philadelphia last March. LEO '=TRUTNER re­cently joined the stafT of the U. S. Navy School of Aviation Medicine at Pensacola, t'la. He would particularly like to hear from BILL GAR­NER, CLIFF McPARLAND. CLAUDE QUILLEN and BOB TERRY. ARTHUR WAGNER, prac­ticing . medicine at Jasper. Indiana, would wel­come letters from JED PAUL, JOE MALAPOL­SKI and DALE MATTMILLER. 
TIic mail brought word of several men .of *47 in the FBI. JOE CORCORAN is working out 

of the New York office and mentioned seeing -Ti JOE DITTRICH, KEVIN CARLEY, JIM SHERI-f'? 
:®n S Building.' . . , H. CLIFFORD BROSEY 
DAN, JACK DILLON, CHARLIE KOEGLER ^ and JOHN* DUNLEA\^' at a beach parly earbv^ in the Summer. JOHN KELLY is one of J^ / Edgar Hoover's men in Los Angeles. He reports^ . that BOB RUSSELL aU* works out of the L. A^ • office. Kelly says that FRANK McGlN"g5'; scr\*ed with the FBI in Portland, Oregon, - an'df Alaska, but that he's now lost track of himV' 
Members of the teaching fratrrnitv: DON' LUNDERGAN, now the father' of three; ^ymm^ . sons, is acting head of the aeronautical engincerV"­ing department at Si. Louis University-T^JHr teaches math and ph\-sics and also sen-'cs-^a-sj, a consultant. THURMAN COSS w^s ordamgr^a minister of the Methodist Church last J^ncnaifd is teaching at Hamlinc University, St.'flP^ . . Minn. Since leaving ND. he lias studie'dj^jl.' Obcrlin, Drew University. Columbia, Union^j^iei ological Seniinar>- and the Universilv of£53i!^r Chester in England. . . . RAIMOND STRU. ^ is teaching matliematics at the Illinois Institute of Teclinolog>% Chicago. For the past twot^^ ^ he was with Douglas .Aircraft at Santa 'Moni^; Cahf. .. . BROTHER PEDRO HAERINCj C.S.C., is principal of Cathedral High'ScliMTi,' Indianapolis, Indiana. It is the second .'iMg^; high school conducted by the Brothers of "•Holy. Cross. SAM ADELO, our class president, ^-^ 
teaclitng Spanish at Notre Danie while studying for his law degree. He recently represented the University at an international congress at the University of Mexico. Sam saj-s JIM ATKIN­SON has just received his master's degree from N'YU. Sam would like to hear from BOB CASEY, GERRY. O'REILLY and ED CHUTE. 
In the armed forces: BILL LEAVEY is a first 

•,
 lieutenant with the Army Transportation " Corps in Leghorn, Italy. He was with the Ncu- York Central in Nr\*- York City when called to active duty. DON HEREFORD is fiscal and disbursing officer at the U. S. Naval Station at Coco Solo. Canal Zone. PAUL SMALDONE is a Lieutenant in the Nav>- Supply Corps stationed at Boston. His twin, PETE SMALDONE, has a similar assignment at Brooklyn. They met several ND men at Na\-y Supply Corps School at Bavonnc. 

N.
 J. 



DAVE KORTY entertained . several ND men and their wives over the Purdue weekend/at-La­fayette. .Among his guests were BOB 'JOHNSON, KEN KEHL and RAY PIECARSKY. ED SWEE-' iVEY is with ycwhouic and ' Haulcy, Ncu-/ York 
n;urancc finu. Ed's brother, Ray,^the^^aslL.of>, die Rockville Center. Sweencys,. has^*ji^Jtr^'enriilled^^^ at ND as a freshman". ' A^^^';^^^"^ c^ O 

i
ED RUETZ is back in^^civj^^again; (and- jlv working for Sibley Machinr',VandnFound^ GWT>>^ South Bend. .' '. " ' JAMES^:j?PHIir^^BBQ17fi 

, proud father of two sons'^^d^'two^^daughtcrs.-^ is-a field engineer for the^HollyiiSugariCmip^GoIo^ rado Springs, Colo. . . V./jgsTHQ.\tXs: TRIXLER lias been elected to the.iboard'tqfr;dii^tors of Van Camp Sea Fo«">d Co,.- world's: ^largBt seafo^ packers. He and his'brotlJer/ :ai^, partners in the Trixler Brokerage'^iCompanyj; Tolland. Oregon. . . . JIM CLr\USSlJisj?^m'^imurancc agent and broker in Hanibiirgi-{New,- •Vork. . . . JERRY HENDEL recently .'"^recovered from a critical boul with Rocky Mountain'; .spoited fever. He ha.s opened a floral ^boppc) ^ncl is living at Valley Stream on Long^IsIan'H.S Jerr\-, would like lo hear from DICKiHOHllER, BILL GRIFF\', FRANK DEBITETTO^^AUL JACKSON and ED DOWD. 
VERNON^5^.\^Kp? Sl<:ARDLE is the or­ganist at thc^athcHral in Ri>chestcr, N. Y., and teaches, musicV^iiK'Uhe^ parochial schools. He has. .MX youngsters:*' T^gg>\ SHchael, Patricia Anne, twins Kevin^anH'jMaurecn and Stephen. I wish all of you"^couIdi'J;^^ shared his fine and heart­warming leltcrT'^X .; .:"DON WHITE is a research and developnienli ,«igiiieer for North American Aviation at ^'jCphimj^is; Ohio. L. DAVID Dc-TREMPE is'office)nianager of a Peoria depart­ment store. He atlended the Laj'men's Retreat at Notre Damc^in'^a^u.si. . . . FATHER FRAN­CIS McFARIlAND,r"^'is a Holy Cross mtssionari" at Dacca, East^Pakjstan. 

JACK MILES/*:takes time out from his in-Nurance business/'in South Bend to carr>' on a long-distancc^clies<r game with PHIL DELINCKE in C"lIingswiK)d; N. J. Phil recently returned home after--a stay at Wanii Springs, Georgia. Jack^4^Ii]<B' would like to hear from BOB .MULCAHY and ELMER "MOOSE" MAT­^THEA^i .. . PHIL COSTELLO and his father -''havei I'iprhed law offices in the Chicago National 
ii.*; a ."iales engineer with General Electric in \De^tniit." He handles llie sales of GE products to Geiirral Motors. . . . MIKE YARBENET, our class trea-surer. is a CPA in Erie. Pennsylvania. . The. Yarbenets have a new daughter just a few months old. . . . FATHER HAROLD ZINK . is assistant pastor ,at Sacred Heart Church, New Orleans.' He received his MA in English at the 
, University of Portland last. May. 
FRANK CRI.M.ALDI is an architrcl wi.h a Kansas Citv. Mo., firm. One of his bosses is 

J. B. SHAUGHNESSY, '25. Grimaldi is editor of the monthly publication of the local chapter : of the American In.siitute of .Architects. . . . CHARLES RENAULD is an independent oil pro­ducer and geologist in Fort Wor:h. Texas. . . . FRANK SZ\*MANSKI, \ice-president of the Class of '47. is a judge for the Michigan Liquor Con­' irol Commission. He has three sons. . . . ROB­ERT KINNEY is a medical service representative for Wyetli Laboratories and works out of South bend. JOE HAAS is a pharmaceutical salesman, lives' al New Carlisle, Indiana, and often visits 
. the ND campus. Also near the campus is ART DIAMOND who is a partner in the law firm of Diamond and Miller in South Bend. 
JOHN MUELLER is a plant engineer in his , sixth year with Anheuser-Busch in St. Louis. Hr 
ttoiild like til hear from AMRTIN' KILSDONK. his association with Panagra in New York City 
.. . BOB MERZ is a sales representative for Hallmark Cards and lives at Tacoma, Washing­ton. . . . MARVIN HUBER has a general in-Nttrance agcno* at St. Henr>-, Ohio. . . GEORGE WEISS is a Chrosier-Plymouth dealer in Grand Rapids. Mich. His "uife, Mar\*rila, re­ports that they often sec BOB WOODHOUSE and his wife,. .Mar>- Ann. . . \ JOE MALEON represents Sacony Palm Beach Suits and lives at Fresh Meadows* X. Y. He would like to hear from JOHN MAHR. . . . CHARLES JOINERS is an accountant-auditor for the State of Cali­fornia and resides with his wife and three chil­dren at Sacramento. 
DON BIRREN keeps plenty busy between his sculpturing and working also in photo lab f>f Bell and Howell, Chicago. He took post grad work in fine arts at ND and at Syracuse Univer­sitv under MestroWc. Don would like to hear from GENE SLEVIN and ED Cx\SHMAN. . . . BILL CLARK is manager for Household Finance in Galesburg, Illinois. He'd like to have a letter from MOOSE HE/\LY. . . . J. R. KLEE operates the Automatic Rug Cleaning Co., in ^ . Rochester, .V. Y. . . . EUGENE LONG is an >V account, executive for an outdoor advcrtisini; "'jfimi in ' San Bernardino. Calif. He has recently Uren EDDIE HAMEL Jn Long Beach. ELMER GANGSMAN • in Los Angeli-s; DON BRADY in jElDMontc; and JOHN GL.\^\B in San Diego. X'FRED^^. JONES, JR., is associated with the CiFr ^i\^Jones Corporation in Coral Gables, Fla, '.He/ilias'^li*fiyf^year-oId son and a daughter, age I. . . :; "JliARRY^LYNCH, a Marine captain, reports Ne|ii^i7jOHN£.LYNCH and several ND men in 
Korean.' '^^^ T^'^^'^V 
That roundsr/oiitfjthe Class of *47 news for this rditibh i>f {il^?ALy\INUS. How about a card "ir letter •froni'J^^ ^fellovvs not mentioned this lime? Let us'jjcnt^^abTmt. your work, your fam­ily arid the oUieF'/nirnn^of^ ^'•7 you might Iiave ^ee^ or heard from^^ --'•• ^-^^ . 
A special note to those vwlio^.jwill be attending Notre Dame home gan ^ itlusj Fall: The alumni itffice will have a b^Shrfouisidc.'^lhe east side of the Stadium where irieii' q/^ tIie;\various classes can hold retmitms before or at tcffAth c /game. One side of the bo«)tli will be m'ark'irdijf^-jlie Class of '47 
, and graduates of that period.i^^Bc^sure to check in there before or after '.the gap^"^* Chances are. you'll see • some old friendsp ^!£1^, 
Let's hear'from another'\fifty,, of you fi>r the next class rolunm! 'i'?-„ 
^'

1948 
' Herman A. Zitt 126 Fannsidc^Dr. J Dayton, Ohio, '-•'^ ^ 
-. • ' i':^ RICHxVRD NIEMER repl>rw; a change of ad­dress. Dick is now living atY4857 Bonnie Lane. Clarendon Hills. 111. ' "-\ Word has been received that-LT.^FRANCIS T. ROBINSON, 121 B. Iris Strectp.^nard, Cali­fornia. IS in poor health followingiserx'icc jn the Army. * , • ^\i ' CLIFFORD J. WOOD has been nami^^nianager of the market research department of .tlic^^Cape* hart-Farnsworth . Company in Fort \Va^ev;;lhdi-. ana. Cliff was formerly with the Hallicraftcrs Company, Chicago, before moving to m?K)7iew position. ':h> DR. RALPH THORSEN, who obtairicd^bhis Ph.D. at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene fand. Public Health in 1952 and taught in the DepaFl^'j ment of Parasitology there this past year, 'Has^, . accepted a position at the Alabama Polytrctmicd^ Institute for the coming year. "^ . DR. DAVID MOSIER, who interned in pc'dj>^ atrics at Johns Hopkins this past year, is n^^ ; taking' residence' training on the H'est Coast.i,^, JOHN T. FFTZPATRICK is an associate with > the firm of Goldstein and Peck with offices at V 955 Main Street, Bridgeport, Conn. y ' HERBERT S. MELTON is a partner in the ^ j firm of McDonald and Melton with offices in theHi Citizens Bank and Trust Company Building':-,"' 
Paducah, Ky. /"\s: \ of Germany at the request and expense of Uncle 
HENRY L. SHIPP, LL.B., is a partner in Uie.,' } Sam. After receiving his walking papers, he mar-firm of Hutcliison, Shtpp and Wiuikales with >.-""ried the former Mary Schalau. Dick is now offices at 605 Fidelity Union Life Building..-.-^ working as an accountant with the Lake Erie. Dallas, Texas. -'. Engineering Corp. in Buffalo. 
and is presently the - attorney for Charles Pfizer and Company, Inc., 11. Bartlett St., Brooklyn 6, ^cw York. 
EDWARD L. TWOHEY, LL.B., has been re­leased from active duty with the Navy and has' resumed the practice of law in association with 
J. Robert Smolensk! with offices at 937 Michigan Trust Building, Grand Rapids 2, Michigan. 
PATRICK HUGHES announces the opening of his offices for general practice of medicine at 208 
W. Third St., Port Clinton, Ohio. ­
JUNE 11-12-13 
7949 
John T. Walker 
826 Wing St. 
Elgin, III. 

* PAUL PECKHA.M, after getting his M.S. at Wisconsin, finished his first year at Johns Hop­kins Medical School. 
STEPHEN J. GALL. \ received the M.D. from Johns Hopkins University in June, and at • present is taking a rotating internship at Union Memorial and plans to return to Hopkins as resident in anesthesia next year. 
FR/VNCIS B. PARISE received a Baclielor of Law;s degree from St. John's University on June 14, 1953. 
CL/VRENCE J. .MORRISSEY is now associated with the Sinclair Research Laboratories in" Har­vey, III. 
LAWRENCE H. MADDEN, JR.. received his Doctor of Medicine degree from the University of Pittsburgh thus past .spring. 
LT. ROBERT L. MONxVCELLI of Albion, New York, is currently stationed at Biloxi. Miss. 
JOSEPH PHILIP SPALLp recently received hi> Bachelor of Laws degree from Kansas City Uni­versity. 
1950 
Richard F. Hahn 5440 N. Wlnthrop Chicago, III. 

The deadline for this issue is still a few days away and unaccustomed as I am to meeting deadlines, Vm hard at the notes already. It's not because I've decided to go easy on the Editor for a change, but because the deadline for our second child Is up at the same time. So, it's do it now or do it without my re-write secretary, chief cook, and bottle-washer. Then you really would suffer. 
Well, here we go after a long, silent summer. GERRY Rf\MSBERGER uri(cs that he is back at ND doing a little graduate work in educa­tion. He also reports '.hat his family's latest addition is due any day now. If memory ser\"es, me correctly, Gerry has two girls already. He extends an invitation to one and all to drop in for a visit at Apt, 36-C, Vctville, when in and, around XD. 
CHARLIE McALPINE was married last June 27th to Jeanne. Lennonof of Rochester, N. Y. Charlie had been working in Rochester for two years before he licaded sou'h to Fort Lauder­dale. He is now .\vorking for Charles F. ilc-Kiralian, Ar'cliitects. Charlie would like toi hear from any '50 nrchUects, His address is 628 N.E. 8th Ave, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
DICK LEOUS reports that he saw a good bit 

^jswniliHTiUlllllllS 
WILtlAM E. COTTER, JR., '41 

William E. Cotter, Jr.,.assistant pur­chasing agent of U. S. Steel's Oliver Iron Mining Division, has been select­ed to participate in the Sloan Fellow­ship program at Massachusetts Insti­tute of Technolog>- during the year'of 1953-54. * • 
Bill, a native of New Rochelle, New 

York, graduated from Notre Dame in 
I941.- In 1946, after serving ^v-ith the 
U. S. Navy, he began his business ca­reer with U. S. Steel's Oliver Iron Mining Division in the department of industrial relations! Advancing in var­ious positions in salary administration and evaluation, training program super­vision, college recruiting and purchas­ing functions, he was made assistant purchasing agent in 1951. 
One of thirty-four selected for the fel!o\vship, Bill was nominated by his employer and was selected in nation­wide competition. 
dad telling in. • that Bill w-as commissioned an ensign in the Xax'al Air Corps at Hutchinson, Kansas.- He. studied multi-engines and received his squadron assignment last April. Bill tnarried Genevieve .Carey of Phillipsburg. X. J., last Christmas.. They arc expecting their first chfld this October. 
PAUL SULLIVAN, '49, wrote us a (e\v lines from West. Point where he is teaching. He gave us a clue as to the whereabouts of BERNIE GRAY. He had a card from Bemie last Christ­mas from St. Mary (or Mount St. Mary), Ky. 
WILLIAMt^t. BALL, LL.B., has terminated t ' We received a note from BILL McGlNLEY'S Has. anybody else seen Bernie??? Paul also saw 
"DOC" ELITHORX and KEX KEMPF last Januar>" in X. Y. for the AIEE cronvcntioii. Prior lo this stint with the Amiy, Paul 5a>*s he labored t%\'o years witli Jackson & Morcland in Boston. 
KEN SASSEEN was married June 6th to the former Rose Prj-or of Kcu'ton Center. EMIL VIGILANTE, '51, was best man. 
ED 0*DONNELL, ex-Howard Hall man (the Best, You Know), has been trusting in God by leaping from planes in a parachute since June of *51 for Uncle Sam. He reports that lie saw GENE CAMPANELLA at Fort S!ocum, N. Y., in the summer of *52. He and Gene got to­gether witli TOM MOR.\NAT at tlie New York 
A. C. and really lived it up. Ed won't be dis­charged until January*. He would like vcr%' ' much to hear from the former inmates of St.­Ed's 4lh floor '47-'48 and Sorin Sub '49.'50. 
JACK WILCOX has entered St. John's sem­inary at Brockton, Mass. JOE SPALLO, *49, was reported to be at Sclfridgc Field in Detroit. Incidentally, ED 0*DONNELL says that he plans to study law at the U. of D. after his dis­charge. He also sends his regards to PRIMO LUSARDI and requests a line from JOHN SUL­LIVAN and JIM STACK. Sgi. Ed F. O'Don­nell, R. A. 46057889, Com. 508A, Ret., Ft. Bcn­ning, Ga. 
A bit of stork news has it that ANDY LECH­NER and his wife were blessed by ilie arrival of Kathleen Anne, August 11, 1953. 
Here's a note from BOB BARRETT who writes: "Since graduation I married Phyllis Al­bright of Mishawaka and am now the proiid father of a two-ycar-old daughter, Mindy. I've been traveling quite a bit lately, first to Port­land, Ore., where I was with Continental Bank­ing, Inc., in Salem, then to South Bend to work for Bcndix for ten months and finally to Washing­ton where I received my appointment with the FBI. After finishing scliool in June, 1952, I was assigned to Phoenix where my address is 1633 
E. AVhitton St. While in Washington this past ­July I met JOHN McHALE, assigned to San Francisco, and ED DWYER, who's working out of Newark. I would appreciate hearing from FRED BOVE, '50, and BRUCE LAWLER, '51, my" ex-roomics, and from JEf\N KREUZ, my cx­tcammatc at good old Cavanaugh Hall. 
Tlianks to the ladies* page of the Chicago Daily News we've learned that GENE JONES was 'married to Tlicresc Murpliy on October 3rd. Tliey are spending their honejTnoon at Sea Island, Ga. 
We were down at the Instrument show in Chicago and bumped into BOB THO.MPSON, looking none tlie worse for wear. Bob Is work­ing for Dodge Manufacturing in ^lishawaka. 
^Ve were wondering if anyone had seen AL CAMPOMENOSI lately. Novs- that the Yankees have done it again (won the A.L. diampionship that is; this is being written during the fifth game) even without the *'Big Stick," (DiMag, natch) we'll bet he's really on a cloud. Let's hear from you, Al, even if we do hope the Dodgers win. 
Some of the boys have forwarded address cliangcs, so here thev are: ROBERT T. MUR­PHY, 3433 S. Harlem, Ber\*-%n, 111.; RICHARD 
E. LEOUS, 376 MilHcent, Apt. E. Buffalo, N. Y.; and ROBERT M. BARRETT, 1633 E. Whif.cn, Phoenix, Arizona. ROBERT R. HEN'TZ sends along a better address: 5415 N. MarshHcld, Crystal Lake, 111. 
ROY E. ANXNDELL has been appointed Assist­ant Cliief, Office of Public Information, Army and Air Force Exchange Ser\'ice, it was announced by Major General Edward H. ^Vhite in New York. 

MERLE E. McDOUGALL has joined the Field Engineering Department of Hughes Research. and Development Laboratories, Culver City, Califor­nia. He was formerly Associated with the Philco Corporation. 
E. ANDREW STEFFEN has been appointed to tlie legal staff of the Indiana Bell Telephone Company. 
WALTER J. AMSSEL, LL.B., is now sccrctarj­manager of the Grand Rapids Association of Credit Men in Grand Hapids, Midi. . 
JOHN C. AMESSLER, LL.B., is a Patent At­torney for the Bendix A\iation Corporation in South Bend, Indiana. 
RONALD J. SANFORD and AUGUST T. GENTILUCCI have both been reccndy released 
44 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
from the Na\'>*. Aug^t. look the step into marriage the end 'of September while Ron an­nounced his engagement. August is - nou* em­ployed at the-DiiPont plant near Camden, X. J., while Ron is at the BcndLx Aviation Corp. high altitude laboratory* in Teterboro, • N. J. 
JOSEPH e . HARKINS, JR., received a Bache­lor of • LavVs degree from St. John's University on June 14, 1953. 
ROBERT J. SLOCUM received his M.A. from 
the Uhiversitv of Pittsburgh this past spring. 
. VVILLIAM j . ARZBAECHER, C.S.C., has been 'Sent to Santiago. Chile, by the Provincial of Holy Cross Congregation to study tlieoIog>' at the University of Chile, along with JOS. A. DORSEY, C.S.C, '53, and LAWRENCE MONTAG, C.S.C., '53. 
RICHARD F. MAIER has been appointed Kaw­ncer Company field representative covering the Cincinnati territory. 
JEREMIAH P. FREE.NLVN has been au-ardt^ a Fuibright fellowship for study abroad. 
THOMAS BENEDICnr has been hired as a-trachcr-coach at St. John School, Jackson, Michigan. 
Received a letter from LT. PAUL M. SCHAE­FER, AO 2224616, 45th Tac Rec Sqdn., APO 970, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Cal. 
"Since I've been in Korea (arrived 27 April) I've run into a couple ND grads. First one was RUSS (JAKE) SKALL, who was my room­mate a couple years there. Wc both graduated in '50. He's with the Eightli Array special serv­ices division not far from mc—a few miles from Seoul. He had a tape recorder with him and a tape containing JACK (SPARKY) THORNTON'S voice—first time I'd heard it since '50. 
The second was LEROY LESLIE, the basket-bailer, class nf '52. who is stationed on this base in Special Ser\-ices. He'll be here a year depending on the war. Says he's married and has a child. 
Leslie says he talked to DICK WARD '5i at another Korean base, where Dick flics F-86s. I was in flving school with Dick ut Br>"an AFB. Tex., where, inddcnially, FATHER NORMAN JOHNSON is Wing Chaplain. Father Johnson is a C.S.C., formerly in the ND English de­partment. 
. And on my \vny to Korea, I ran into BOB SANFORD, '50, at Alameda NAS. . He was called back into the Na\'y and Is a j.g. He was ready to leave then for Japan. 
^Tliat's about all, except the fact that I'm flying F-80s here and have 25 missions—75 to go. Hope you can use the above info." 
1951 
Robert J. Klingenberger 1717 Pemberton Dr. Fort AVajTie, Ind. 
By now, many of you fellows who were neces­sarily detained in the 5er\*ice for a couple of years arc being released, so send in the news as to your plans, new locations, etc. Also, w-e could be receiving information from many other un­heard-from classmates. 
TOM LOGAN graduated from Indiana Univer­sity Law School with honors, subsequently passed the Illinois bar and is now In uniform. 
JACK CORYN graduated from ND Law School. 
TIM KIGIN is moving Into his third year of training with Fort Wayne Corrugated Paper Co. and is moving to Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Saw STEVE MARTIN at the Lawyer's Club in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Steve Is starting his third and final year at the University of Michi­gan Law School. As a part-time gesture, he's making use of his accounting training, working in the University Hospital Credit Department. Also Steve writes that STEVE "BUD" HERB'S address is 3500 Granada, Apt. 4. Dallas, Texas. (Wonder if that's the penthouse?) BOB HOFF is in the Army and taking O.C.S. training at Fort Sill. In addition to Steve, PAT KINNEY and JOHN VANKER are also finishing up at the Michigan Law School. 
ENS. T. C. ANSELMAN, Staff Com. Seventh Fleet, FPO San Francisco. Tom writes he gradu­ated from line officer's school in Newport last March and has since been located at this ad­dress as communications watch officer. Since in the Far East, Tora reports having seen LEN a\LL , JI.M DOYLE. JACK SANFORD, '50, and ELMER LAYDEN, '52. 
WALLY CLEMENS spent the summer working with Otis Elevator Co. and is now back at ND continuing his studies with aid of a fellowship in English. 
FRANCIS G. BRICKSON writes that he was released from the Naw last June. Also, he an­nounced a new addition to his family—Linda— born August 17. A playmate for Becky and Susan. Francis is working for Acroproducts Divi­sion of General Motors and his current address is Route 10, Box &45. Dayton 7, Ohio. 
LOUIS S. NOET2EL married Miss Justine Lapp at Sacred Heart Church on August 16. 1952 and had a baby glri on July 22, 1953. Lou is working for Giffels and Varlct Inc. and his current address is 13982 Wisconsin, Detroit 38. Michigan. Also. Mrs. Noetzel writes that she has met VINCE RAUTH, who Is currently cm-

Bobby Williams, '51, right, is welcomed to Norfolk, Va., by Phil Russo, M9, President of the ND Cluh of Tidewater, when the former All-American played an exhibition game >\*ith the Colts against the Eagles there. Looking on is Frank Amato, '52, coach of Norfolk Catholic High. 
ployed by Palmquist and Wright, Architects, in 
Detroit. 
HARVEV O'NEILL, 320 N. Broadway, Peru, Indiana, and Nancy just had a baby boy in August. Harv is with the Kingsbury Corp., an agricultural chemical plant, and is in charge of the plant operation and personnel. 
DAVE O'LE/VRY was discharged from the sur^'icc on August 7lh and returned to Iowa where he is considering going Into the general insurance field and has intentions of marr>'ing soon and settling down. 
CHARLIE LUECKE, Xa\-\' Exchange, Box 44. Navy 116, FI'O, New York, N. Y., writes that he and Marge are still vcr>* pleasantly stationed in San Juan, Puerto Rico, and Chuck is cur­rently In charge of purchasing for the Navy Exchange. He writes that on maneuvers last year he had a chance to meet with and enter­tain AL WARD, BOB CLEMENCY, MART\' McKEVrrr, AL ABBY, HUCH HARDY and DON MURPHY. 
Ist LT. JAMES L. BL.\CK. JR., 051735 USMC. Anti-Tank Co., 5lh Marines, Ist Marine Division, FMF, FPO San Francisco, California, is now in Korea. He has been overseas for a total of 14 months and has another 7 months to go. He writes that he saw AL BAILEY returning in the Stales for discharge and saw JIM HARTMAN last March. 
Saw DICK MacDONALD and Joey and the ncvv Margaret MacDonald in Chicago this sum­mer. Mac had been stationed with the Quarter­master Corps there since last November, but was discharged on September 30th. He plans on rc­rurnlng to 505 South Seventh St., Lafayette. Indiana, till the first of the year, then will probably move out to another city to gain some classified advertising experience. 
PETE GARVEY. Company C, 27lh Regiment, FPO, San Francisco, Cal., is now a member of the "Choppin Charlies," serving as a corporal, and was recently located on Pork Chop Hill. 
GEORGE CHOPP writes that he is marr>ing Miss Geraldine Dowd on September I2th in Elizabeth, N. J., will honeymoon In Sea Island, Georgia, and reside at 1055 South Elmore Ave., Elizabeth, N. J. George is working for General Motors Corp., Lincoln, N. J. 
ED SULLIVAN, 180 N. Ellicott St., Williams-ville, X. Y., writes that he left Chr>'sler last November and Is now with Cornell Aeronautical Laboratories in BufTalo and Is vcr>' happy with the change. Ed also wants to convey his con­gratulations to KEN THOREN—got it. Ken? 
Ens. HANK MADDEN married Miss Sally Hanlev on June 27th In Boston. Mass. BOB ED.MONDSON and TOM .MULLEN were in the wedding party. Hank and Sally are now settled down at 414 /Vshantilly Ave., St. Sinion*s Island, Georgia. 
BILL COONEY is still at Georgetown Law and is Associate Editor of the Law Journal this year. 
DAN BAGLEY married Miss Nancy Schmich on July 11th In Chicago. 
ROBERT E. PRUE was separated from the service on September 28. Formerly stationed at Fort Knox, Kentucky, his new address is 2005 Beverly Place, South Bend 16. Indiana. 
LT. (jg) H. B. MARKHA.M, JR.. has re­lieved another ND man—LIEUTEN.XN'T CO.M­MANDER C. D. HOLMAN, JR., MO—In the I3th Naval District's Public Information Center, Seattle, Washington. 
TOM KLETT'S wife, whom he married on August 18, 1951, recently gave birth to a son, Kc\'an, on August 18, 1953. They have one other child, Tliomas, Jr., born in 1932 . . . on August 18. 
DAVE S. SCHOEN, 3305 Natchez Lane, Louis­ville, Ky., has just been released from the ser\'­icc and Is entering an 18-month training program with the Citizens Fidelity Bank & Trust Co. of Loumille. 
JOSEPH MacCORMAC has recently been trans­ferred to St. Albans, Vermont, by the National Carbon Company to assume the duties of Works Accountant at the Corporation's St. Albans plant. His new address Is Apartment 7, Franklin Apartments, St. Albans, Vt. 
JOHN HELWIG is currently playing pro ball with the Chicago Bears. 
LOUIS C. DAUGHERTY has moved to 3625 Wilbur Place in Nashville, Tcnn. 
GEORGE T. PATTON has announced the opening of his law oflice at 214 Lafayette Building, South Bend, Indiana. 
2ND LT. LEO J. BRENN.VN is In the 582nd Air Rcsupply and Communications Wing, Psycho­logical Warfare Division, Box ' 5483, Gt. Falls A.F.B., Montana. LEO McKILLIP is also sta­tioned there with Brennan. 
Word from HAROLD MUNGER that he is working with his father in the architect business in Toledo while awaiting the results on'- his State Board Examination. 
A degree of Master of Automotive Engineering has been awarded to JOSEPH A. NAUGHTON by the Chr>'sler Institute of Engineering.' 
JACK KE^VN is employed as a bookkeep^er In General Elcclric's Fenton, Michigan, plant. 
EDWARD J. DUFFY, JR., LL.B., is now asso­ciated with the firm of Beigel and Mahrt, 901 ^ Winters Bank Building in Dayton, Ohio. 
PETER F. FUVHERTY, LL.B., was commended, by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania for his . written brief and oral argument in the case of Commonwealth v. Kurus, 92 A (2d) 196. 
M.\X GABRESKI, LL.B., Is engaged in the private practice of law with offices in the Veach Building, Oil City, Pennsylvania. 
ART GOULET, LL.B., has been appointed County Poor Attorney for St. Joseph County, Indiana. 
JOSEPH N. LOW, LL.B., has entered the pri­vate practice of law with offices In the Masonic Temple Building, Niles, Alichigan. 
ROBERT J. BOYD, LL.B., is now associated with the firm of Dw>'er and Pearson with offices in the Durston Building in Anaconda, ^lontana. 
EDWARD G. COLE.MAN, LLB., announces his association for the general practice of law with the firm of Curren. Dressendorfcr, Fried­man and Coleman with offices at 726 Relscli Building, Springfield, Illinois. 
1952 
Hanv L. Buck 309 Fisher Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 

I have agreed to take over this Job as class secrclar>* for a few years while trying to finish law school. Most of this information has been gathered from various students still on the campus. I hope fellows will send in whatever news you might have pertaining to yourself and the other members of the great class of '52. Let's keep our column in the ALUMNUS filled. 
DICK STUBBING will receive his Nfaster's degree from the Har\'ard Graduate School of Business Administratii>n in June 1954. BOB DA­VIDSON, a member of the Air Force, was mar­ried Sept. 19 and is stationed in the South. DICK HIDDING, married and father of a daugh­ter, is working for J. C. Penney Co. as Assistant .Manager In Waterloo. Iowa. LT. DICK WIN­DISHAR, Marines, is Ii>cated at Camp Pendleton. Calif. GEORGE HEIMEL, Army, is stationed in Seattle, Wash., and is due to be discharged in Februar%*. BOB HOKE is working for ^fodern Fold Doors Co. in Newcastle, Ind.. and is father of a new daughter, Janet Lee. FRANK McGINN, Ensign USN, was here for the Pitt game, and will continue to be assigned to the West Coast. L.-\RRY LOPINA, who received his .Master's in .Accounting from DePaul In .August, was immedi­ately Inducted Into the Army and sent to Fort Riley. Kansas. He wrote that he ran Into JAY CONLON, who was also drafted. 
JOHN REYNOLDS has joined the Carthusians. He stopped by campus during the summer to visit before sailing to France. ART PERRY Is also studying for the Priesthood in Davenport, Iowa. ­The class of '52 is certainly keeping the law school here in business. x\mong those enrolled are DON BEBENEK, JACK BR.\DSHAW. ED L^VNCHE, JACK MALIK, TO.M HANRAH^VN, TOM KING. GEORGE HERO, MIKE DIONISE, BOB ROSS, DxWE L.\JOIE, FRANK M.VNZO, BOB MAZIAR, BILL McFADDEN, NORM >fc-NEIL, AL PICCINI, DON PREBENDA, TO.M ROE.MER, DOUG ROBERTSON. JLM (CON­NIE) HIGGINS, JOHN GOR.M.\N, JOE GAR­GAN, DICK DE VALERIO and BOB ROSS. 
JLM MUTSCHELLER and JOHN MAZUR arc 
stationed In -Japan with the ^farine Corps. DICK CLANCY, stationed at Naval Air Station, Hutch­inson, Kans., is coaching basketball and teaching math there. JOE CAPRARA is backfield coach for the Camp Lejeune Motor Corps - football team. BOB TONEFF, stationed in Germany with the regular Army, finished second in the discus in a championship meet held with European teams. BOB KAPISH is stationed In Korea with the Army Air Corps. DICK VIOLA is in New London, Conn., with the U. S. Coast Guard. JOHN PETITBOX is playing football with the Marine Corps in Quanlico, Virginia. BERT DADAY was married Sept. I2th and Is working for the U. S. Steel Co. GLENN VATUNI is secretary to Gen. Meade of the First Cai*alry Di\isIon. 
PAUL FATUM has been with the First Marine Division in Korea. DICK SHARDLAN is also reported as being in Korea. TOM KIRBY is in his second year in St, Vincent's Seminary at Latrobe, Pa. He has two years to go before ordination. JACK McGLINN Is running a finance office In Japan for the Army. GEORGE GLAS­ER is working for the government In New Mexico. TOM DIGAN is working for IBM In Massachusetts. CHUCK DOOLEY Is In flight training In Pensacola, Fla. DICK McNA^L\RA» who was drafted just before beginning his senior year, is now back after t^vo years in the Army to finish in marketing. 
JOHN BLADEL was last heard from at Camp Gordon where he attended radar school. Among '52 graduates attending various law schools are: BILL DE.MPSEY at Yale. JIM MANION at St. Louis, LOU GARIPPO and BOB H/\RMON at DcPaul, DON SEIGER at Northwestern, JOHN 
.M.\NNIXG at New York Univ., JAY CONLON at Harvard (before draft), BILL RILEY at Yale, AL GAZORTZ at Sam Houston Institute of Technology, JIM McLEAX at the University of ~ Pittsburgh, DON' EAGER somewhere around New York City, and FRANK ZAPPALA at Duqucsnc. SANDY FEENEY is now at Camp Kilmer, New jersey. CHARLES FAHY Is studying for the priesthood in Washington, D. C. FRED HART­MANX^, presently stationed at Little Creek, Vir­ginia, is scheduled for discharge from the Na\-y 
- in February. 
JOHN SKUDRIS, currently with the ifarines, was married recently according to the news we received here. JIM HA^\'ES is now at Grcnier Air Force Base, Ne^** Hampshire, ^vorkIng as a radio Inspector. MIKE PERINO is reported do­ing graduate work at Wisconsin Univ. HARRY SIEMONSMA Is studing medicine in Toronto. JACK HARRINGTON Is selling insurance in To­ledo. RICIL\RD TIGHE is married and scr\-ing with the Army at Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri. JOHN CASSIDY is working for General Electric at Schenectady, N. Y. JOHN ZANARDI is work­ing back home In Iron Mountain, ^lichigan. CHARLES MCCARTHY is in the Army, serving at Fort Knox, Kentucky. LEN*NY KILIAN re­ceived a Master's degree from Cornell. BOB KLEIN Is in OCS at Fort Bcnnlng, Georgia. TIM KLEIN is with the Army In Germany. JIM ETLIXG is stationed in the Hague, Nether­lands. HENRY M.AYER reports that he was transferred to the Catholic Chaplain's Office at the Tokyo Chapel Center during the summer. 
DONALD K. TRAVIS, LL.B., is engaged Jn the private practice of law with offices at 1-3 Lauer Building in Pl>*mouth, Indiana. 
HAROLD STANLEY, LL.B., Is now a claim representative with the State Farm Insurance Company in Muskogee, Oklahoma. 
DONALD SMITH, LL.B., Is now a first lieu­tenant in Japan where he Is engaged In legal work for the Air Force. 
M.\JOR MICHAEL BREZAS, LL.B., is a pro­curement officer for the Air Force with Briggs Manufacturing Corp. In Detroit, Michigan. 
RICHARD D. CULLEN, LL.B., has begun the private practice of law in Victoria, Texas. 
Hx\RRY HEPPENHEIMER, LL.B., Is now en­gaged in the general practice of law with- offices at 406-407 Piatt Building, 103-105 West Wayne Street, South Bend, Indiana. 
ANDREW V. GIORGI, LL.B., has been com­missioned as a first lieutenant in the Judge Ad­vocate General Corps. 
RICHARD V. LESLIE, LL.B., is a partner In the firm of Leslie and Leslie with offices at 320 8th Street S.W., ^Vavcrly, Io\ra. 
ROBERT A. MEYER, LL.B., announces the formation of the firm of Meyer and Sperry for 
November-December^ 1953 45 

the general practict- o[ law with otlict^ in tlie QUINLAN are all enrolled at Georgetown Uni­those attending was. of course, the ever popular Pulliam' Building, Worland. Wyoming. versity this fall term where each will work on liis and extremely handsome Mr. KERWIN FULTON ROBERT Nf. PARKER, LL.B., is a>M>ciatcd 
Master's degree. who is now on relief. Kerwin enters Columbia Law with his father in rlir prartirr of law in South Received a letter from JI.M ROGERS who is 
school where he .starts work on his law degree Rrnd, Indiana. employed at present by the Minnesota , ^lutual 
this fall. Life Insurance Company (\1ctor-Winter. Agency*. Among the many planning to attend the Nav-^' ALVIN J. SAVINELL, LL.B.. has become .a 
First .National Bank BIdg.. St. Paul, I). He OCS school at "Newport are JOHN OUTER. 
member ot the law flmi <>r Alexander. Loha and 

writes: "My official title is a Life Insurance DICK TROSSET, JOE BUCKHEIT, HAMPTON Savinell, with offices in the City'Annex Building. 
Agent, and I like the job very well. I • have also LYNESS and BILL REIDY. 
StcubenWIIc, Ohio. 
secured the title of husband and also like that 

LEONARD G.AJEWSKI, LL.B.. has been ad­JOHN PECK and his bride, Dolores, are living 
task ver\* much. We have a ver\- nice, apartment 
in Simth Bend where John sells used cars. 
mitted to the Pennsylvania Bar. 
now and ever\'thiiig seems to be running smooth­

JAMES TERMOXDT, LL.B.. h now employed ly." Jim informs me that he will.be ver>' happy JOHN MADDEN will soon enter Loyola Med in the Probate Division of the Continental Illinois to ser\'e any member of the Class desiring, Life School in Chicago. National Bank and Trust Co. of Chicago. Insurance. Free plug. .A card .fnim LARRY TARPEY informs us that 
he is entering Indiana University where he is to 

Pfc. RUDOLPH M. UNGER lias been trans­D.AVE AHLERIXG. who left N<itrc Dame at ferred from Fort Sill, Oklahoma, to the Army's the end of his Junior year, again resumes his 
start working on his master's degree in Business. P^ydiological Warfare Center. Fort Bragg, North Dental studies at Loyola.' He informs me that Reports from Toledo: DAN NOE is now en­Carolina. TOM SCHAUB, tvlio transferred from ND at gaged and JIM BRITT was married s€>on after the' end <if his Junior year to MIT has decided graduation and is . now working in Toledo. to enter the Priesthood. He will go to Loras 
BILL KERWIN married Roberta HofFman of 

1953 College in Dubuque, Iowa, to study • Latin for Long Island on August 29. Thomas AV. Reedy, 
a year and will then enter the Dominican Seih-
Received a letter recently from Father .Al 
inar>' at Winona, IMinn. 

511 Monroe .Ave. Crocc. Holy Cross Priest who is now in Pakistan River Forest, III. JERRY SMITH, •53-'M, Grand Knight of the doing missionary work. Father CriKre corresponds I(K;al , ND . Kaycee> returned to Iiis Law studies with many of the class and informed me thai: 
I aiu sure you will all be :i> allocked and as on campus this fall. 
"VIC RILEY married Marilyn Anne Fellratli 

saddened, as 1 was to learn of the sudden deaths ERNIE BARTEL L spent a month in Hawaii at Dearborn. Michigan, on .August 8. Tlie of two of our former classmates. with his parents this summer and finished up, the Rile>-s • were living in BtifTalo until Vic was JOE CONWELL died <if heat exhaustion uhile summer working for Bartell Poniiac in Chicago. drafted on Sept. 23. engaged in Marine Officer training at Quantico. Ernie is enrolled at the University of Chicago "GEARY BECKER is working for his Dad and «here he will do adx'anced work in Economics. 
\nrsinia. on July 24, 1953. is getting some of his music published in be­
BOBBY BERNER made the AP wires 3 weeks 

JINt MORATH was killed iti an au «> accident tween office hours. Geary, you'll remember, wrote on August 15, 1953. the music the Musical. has given 
ago when an his trip to Europe. Seems he was  to Student He set to sail the next day for New York when 
an ND miniature to a certain Chicago girl. 
Our heartfelt sympathy and prayers are ex­
Mimeliow or other he lost his wallet containing his liner ticket, passport, and visa. The report 

tended to the parents of Jim and Joe—the first "TO.Nf KRUG Is to report to Fort Hayes. deceased of the Class of '53. Columbus. Ohio, on Sept. 30. From there he 
didn't say HOW he had lost them. Bob enters 
will report to Fort Meade, Md., where he'll get 

I am sure that their parents would' appreciate Har\'ard Law ScIiool this fall. 
his training. 
a letter of condolence from those who knew the 
JIM WILCOX, "WHISK" SHEEHAN and ED 

bo\-s well. Letters should be addressed to: "GEORGE McCOURT is.working for American 
BUCKIEWICZ spent the summer at Fort Lewis, 
Seating in Grand Rapids and planning to marr%' Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J; Conwell. Sr. 
Washington, hoping to become GI medics. 

a Grand Rapids girl named Wax-ajean in No­"One of the highlights of the Painesville social vember. 
959 Summit Avenue 
Greensburg, Pennsylvania 
season was the marriage of Miss Marilyn Jouglilin, 
"VICTOR TALLARIDA recently married a

and popular and attractive daughter of Mr. and Mrs. 
, Rochester girl. 
* Mr. and Mrs. James R. Morath, Sr. John Joughlin to Mr. JOSEPH C. COSTAXZO 256 North Main St. of the Le%ris Run, Penns>ivania, Costanzos," re­"SYL SCHULTE is also engaged to a To­Herkimer, New York ports the social correspondent, Louella Fulton. ledo girl." 
Tlie Wedding took place Sept. 5 and was ushered Many thanks. Father. 
Tr>'ing to keep posted on the marriages ] am 

by LEN LEROSE—now working for his father finding to be quite a task. Had the gcKid for­and awaiting induction into the Army sometime DAVE McELVAIN, who hlis just completed tune to attend TOM LORSON'S wedding .MH>II Navy ROTC training in Long Beach. California, 
after Nov. 1—and RALPH ARGEN—now enrolled 

after Graduation on June 9. Tom married Anita at Georgetown Med School. GENE GORSKI, and is now at USN Supply School at Bayonne. who sang at. the wedding, is now doing graduate 
Campmann. graduate of Si. Mar>''s of Notre N. J.,* sent through a whole raft of guys he's. Dame at Hammond. Indiana. The Larsons are work in music at ND and expects get his come across in the Met area: "ENS. WALT 
 to 

now living in Pensacola. Florida, where Tom is master's after 3 more semesters. Also among STUHLDREHER reports aboard the USS Haven taking Na\*al flight instruction. The wedding (hospital .ship) after his graduation from the USN party was composed of TONY Cr\RNEVALE, Sjpply Scliool. He expects to spend about sLx • JOHN "TEX" WILKERSON (best man). months in Japan. ENS. TOM BAKER Is to re­MICKEY DOLAN and BOB SCH/\FER. .Among port to the USS Botce Cannon (Destroyer tender) the guests was DICK F.ALTER, from Oilumbus. which is now stationed in Sassabo, Japan. ENS. Ohio, who many will remember before lie left GEORGE PEARSE , who married a hometown Ncliool at the end of sophomore year. girl on Sept. 20, reports aboard the USS Mon­
s;%:%%;%%5^ 
terev, a carrier. He relieves JACK ROSS, *52. 
TOM MURPHY ("big Tom"), married Pat by the %*-ay. ENS. REG PHILBIN and JERRY Sa^'agc June 13 in Chicago. Tom Ls awaiting his ' McCABE. each will be in charge of the supply .Air Force orders, which have been postponed, end of separate LST dirisions at Norfolk, Va. 
and at the present ts living in New Bedford. 
ENS, HANK HINSEXKAMP pulled shore duty Indiana, where he is in the executive training somewhere In Massachusetts. BOB TRIPENV 
program of GM's Alumi-Craft plant. 
enters Newport Na^y school for OCS training 

BILL GAUDREAU was married to Mar>- Kelly and then proceeds to Supply School at Bayonne. in Dcs Moines, Iowa, on June 13 and at last ENS. ED ROBERTS Is aboard the USS Antietam report was also awaiting Air Force duty orders. somewhere in the Atlantic. DICK SCHREFT-
Entering the Holy Cross Seniinarv" at Notre MULLER working for Spcrr>* Gvroscope on Long Dame this Sept. 20 to start on the road to or­Island, N. Y. ENS. BILLY STUHLDREHER 
dination arc: AL DECRANE, BOB MULLEN and is aboard the USS Borie (Destroyer) somewhere PAUL GABLER. All who know Al, Bob, and around China. ENS. AL ELLSWORTH, RONNIE Paul know what wonderful priests they will make. WONG, TOM YOUNG. BILL DE.MPSEY, JER­
We wish them all the luck in the world. 
RY KEELEY and JIM BUCKLEY are all await­ing orders to specific assIgnmcnLs. JACK MART\' WEHNER spent the summer in Pitts­SCHAEFFER Is at the Harvard School of Busi­burgh where he was being trained for an en­ness. SAM SCUDERI ts attending Har\-ard Law gineering sales position with Westtnghousc. 
School. PAT TIMMONS and DAN MURPHY 

At a party al JERRY O'CONNOR'S house are enrolled at the Seton Hall Law Scliool. earlier in • the summer. 1 saw DICK LOLLA, CHUCK STIMMING, JOE DESAUTELS and JACK HORAN and DICK WEINACHT just before EDGAR O'CONNOR have all been drafted in 
/o/h the

they embarked for their long-planned jonrnc\* to Indianapolis and arc now training at Fort Hav\'aii. Wliile in Hawaii they planned to stay Knox, Ky.*' at th*e home of HARVEY LUNG who lives in 
MARCH 
Honolulu. Jack plans to mix a Cheni. Eng. 
TOM YOUNG reports that: "JOE McDADE background with Law. He's attending Columbia is now at Pennsylvania University Law School. 
Law school this fall. Dick Weinaclit is entering ED DUGGAN is working at Sears in South the Civil Engineers Corps (Na\y), and Dick Orange, N. J., temporarily, while awaiting Air Lolla has just commenced the fall term at Loyola Force orders, PAT LEE and JACK BARRY 
DIMES 
Dental Scliool. Jerrj- O'Connor plans to journey were drafted and are now at Camp Kilmer, to Seattle to lake a position with BuShips (Na\-\-) N. J. BOB BITTNER is working in Cleveland for the summer. He hopes to land a commission for the Diamond Mfg. Company and recently be­sometime in October. 
came engaged to Pat Walsh of Pittsburgh. JOHN 
MURRAY is going to Jefferson Medical School 
JACK VARNEY, JIMMY CELANO and TOM 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

; ill Fliiladflpliia. AL LONG ts working fin- hi;* 
' fatlirr on Long Island while awaiting Air Forro 
i orders." I certainly apprrciatc ri*ceivinB letters like this. 
A lilt of Chicago area XD grads were on hand to see BILL DARGAN at MIKE McNULT\"s home a few weeks agn. Bitt jusi stopped through on the way to St. Louis University wlicre he starts work on his Law Degree: Mike is working at a Xorlh Shore country club while waiting to be drafted, 
DON BERGMAN is at Fort Leonard Wood in Arniy training. DICK DOUGL/\S aitcnding Lnynlu Univcr­sity Law Schi»oL NORM FELTES is at .Marine OCS- at Quan­lico, Va., completing his training. 
DAN HARDIN is working for his father and expecting to br drafted into the Army before very long. 
BILL McMURRAY is at Newport. R. L, at the Xav\- Officer M:hool. JIM NOONAN is back at XD working on u master's in the field of Juvenile Delinquency. , Brother ED XOON/\N is at Fort Riley. Kan­sas, with the Aniiy. 
LEE GETSCHOW is helping coach the ND Frosh team this year while completing his final year of Phy Ed. _ 
GENE FANNING i> working as a satesinan for the J. P. Smith Shoe Company - and going to scli'Mil nights at Northwestern working on his Master\s in Marketing. 
JOE McINERNEY—still playing golf—also at­tending X.U. and working for his father's Chevy agency in the daytime. 
RAY SMITH is studying Law a: Xorthwestern. 
JOHN STOELLER is over in Switzerland tak­ing adv*antai:e of the scholarship he won while at XD. 
BILL RILEY is attending the University of 
' Chicago doing grad work there this fall. He informs me that JOHN PORTA and JIM PFOHL are entering the Harvard Grad School. Whether it was Business or Law slips my mind. 
BRYAN COUGHLIN has activated Iiimsclf wi:h the Xaxy reserves and is now at Great Lakes im active duty. 
DAS ' JAMES is working fur his Dad at the 
D. D. James Mfg. Company in Chicago. HeMl be inducted Oct. 23 along with JIM O'BRIEN who is working for his father. 
JERRY ADLER is employed as a salesman for his father's greeting card company in Palatine. Illinois. 
Received a nice letter from BOB STRALEY who is stationed with the X'axy aboard the USS Maurv. His address is: USS Maur>*j AGS-I6; c/o FPO.* -NY. NY. He writes: '"I saw BRIAN DUFF on a bus in Norfolk and met GEORGE THOMAS recently at the officers club in Xor­folk. I suggest that the XD gobs make the Breezy Point Officers Club their meeting place. I put a sign up there and perhaps we can pass along any pertinent dope by that method." 
Word has it that ED CONDON, LARRY EATON and JACK POWERS enter the Xavy OCS at Netvporl this fall. 
Just as you enjoyed reading about the activities of the handful of classmates we mentioned here, so too woidd they like to read about what YOU are doing. Drop me a letter or even a postcard and let us know about yourself- and the ND grads you might have run across. 
HENRY J. .\L\SSMAN HI graduated from the .\'avj'*s Officer Candidate School at Newport. Rhode Island, the middle of August. 
JAMES A. REID has jouird the staff of iLs Esso Engineering Department it has been an­nounced by the Standard Oil Development Com­pany. The company also announced that PHILIP 
J. KLAfVS, PIi.D. '53. has joined the staff of its Esso Laboratories. CARL E. NICKELS is working for the M. A. Hanna Company, Cleveland. Ohio. DELMER R. SMITH, LL.B., has been ad­mitted to the Alichigan Bar. 
OLLIE CELUSTA, LL.B., is engaged in the private practice of law with offices a:: 842 Xicho­las Building, Toledo 4, Ohio. 
BILL HURLEY and LUKE .MORIN, LL.B.. have been admitted to the Illinois Bar. ROBERT JOLIET, LL.B.. has been admitted to the Ohio Bar. 
The gift that will be welcomed joyously by that Notre Dame fan on your Christmas list 
a subscription to the 
Notre Dame Scholastic 
Weekly Student News Magazine 
Each issue of this slick, sprightly magazine that wins top awards ever)' year in national judgings is loaded with Notre Dame news, sports, social events, humor and features—a weekly roundup that will be a continual source of pleasure for the Fighting Irish fan, whether teen-ager or oldster. 
Included in each subscription is the annual Football Review, a special edition that covere the entire Irish grid season. 
Your gift subscriptions will start with the Christmas issue, and a letter notifj-ing the recipients of your gifts will be mailed to arrive before Christmas. We will enclose your own Christmas cacds with the letters if you send them to us with your order; 
$4.00 for each one-year subscription Fill in the Order Form below and mail it today! 
To: NOTRE D.-VME SCHOL.-\STlC Please send gift subscription to Notre Dame. Indiana ' Please send gift subscriptions to the following at $4.00 per subscription. I 
subscriptions. 
• I am also enclosing my own cards which I wish to have enclosed with your letter notifying the following of the gift subscriptions they will re­

ceive during the coming year. Please send gift subscription to 
MU7.0S.\—PI,i„„h~Kt-A a. Lvn,kc-v. '29. SiHKi WcM U'l-Uoii .\vi>. Tucson—F. Ed\v.-ird Larluii. '44. 2117 E. Copper. 
.\RK.\XS.\S—/'or! Smilli~\i. DiA'al JchnMon. '.'i?. 
925 Garrison. IJIIl,-fi..rt—Jani.-, K. .Maidu.iii. "43. 2(IIC Sum­iiiit. Litllf Rock, .-\ik. 
CVLII'ORXI.A—/...I .1««.;,,-CliarU> II. l.vndi. '211. 13411 E. Fooll.lU Blvd.. .Mladvi.a. Odif. Xmth:«—.\mlrnv K. Mc.Mulli-ii. '25. 1.411 Eord­liani Rd.. Sau .\lal.o. Calil. 
San /JiVei.—Joliu J. .\lcCIau-ii. '29. 451.1 TUoli St. 
COLORADO—/),«.•,,-.\mon P.iji.ia.i. Jr., •4'.l. 1835 S. Eudnra Si. Snulh.in f../.,.—William J. Doiiclaii. Jr.. '29. 1811(1 .Mi-si .\vi-.. liroadinoor. Colo. 
CO.\Xr.CTK:L'T—(7...ui, <-/;,«/ rn//,v-Dav;d ('.­liaBlcy. '42. 739 .Main Street. Hartlotd. .Vfm;.'fl/Mr/.—l'raiiei> M. Cronan. '49. 5! Oakland -Xvo., Waleihnry. Conn Soulhti.il.ni—ViMu-is J. Herb. '37. !152 Main St., Rin. 3U5, Bridstepoit. Conn. 
nF.I,.\\V.\RE-,\itln.r .\. llaiun. '3li. 223 Cliain­plain .Ave.. Ilelleinoore. Wiliniiiitlon. Del. 
DISTRICT OF COI.LMIil.V—Dr. Jann> -M. C.r­eoiiin. '38. 4!ll«l Seilitwirk St. .N'.W.. WaOiin^ion 10, D.C. 
FI.ORlD.\—/'...I ;.nl.,/. t./.il,—Ceo.ue II. Coie, '48. 812 S.W. Ifiih St.. Ft. Lauderdale. Fla. Cr,al,r .l/ia(.ii'—Jeionie I'. Holland. '311. 318 N. 
E. lOllh St. 
.Vnri;i /'.'oiirfo—John F. Ijnahan. '43. I'. O. Box 1679, JackM.nville. 
GEORGI.\-.4lta.i/..-\Villiain W. Corr. '32, 109 Diiyuood Dr.. Marietta. Georgia. 
IDAHO—Panl L. Kolioul. '2-"i. 1722 \Va>liin!!toii St.. Boise. 
ILI.l.VOIS—/lar.o,.-Rirliaid Riedv. '44. 475 Lake St. Cnlrol ///.n..!'.—Jaine, K. C.ifUi. "4!). H-A I'a^­(ield I'ark I'lare. Sprincneld. III. Cltirogo—W. Gilbert Seaman. "31. 195 .Arliimton Ave.. Elmlmrst. 111. 
£oi/,r.I ;;/;/...;—Jolm .\leyer. "42. ICSl Oak St.. Danville. Fox ValUy—George R. Schmidt. '29. 020 Snm­mit. Elgin. /n/i"./—lohn R. Min/iin, '48. 253 Wilrox St.. Jolict. HI. Pffiria—Bernard J. Ghiglieri. '44. Ki Natinml Rank nhi c I'eoria. Itork Itir,, r,i/;. v-Ed«ard M. Sullivan. "33. Anilj,)y. 111. 
IXDIA.N'A—Co.'ui,,, I ;);.l,;,l_Jaine. R. Morrison. "34. 1834 Sumnu-r St.. Haintuond. lud. Ea^l.rii ;iirfm../r-Jaiiies W. Ilallisan. '32. 3113 Wysor lUdii.. Muncie. 'lui. 
HHmrl—Roljert F. Iloltz. '.18. 1021 Strong .Uc . Elkhart. fiton..-;//,—Edwaid F. (laller. '42. 1313 Liticoln Ave.. Evau.ville. Ind. l-orl ll'uvti,—Robert E. Kearney. '48. 1702 I'ein­bcrlon Dr. Ittdio,in:.ol\—Charles Jo-eph Cille-pie. "41. 2034 X". Meridian St.. Iiuiianapolis. Ind. Mirlnnan Cilv-Jolin A. Kelley. "25. 222 W. Warren. Michigan Citv, Ind. SI. ]oSil,li r,iH.v—Harrv F. Koehler. Jr.. '37. 1433 Madison St.. South Bend. Ind. Wabash roH.y—Ted -MacDonald, '42, 106 Sunset Lane, West I.afayettc. Indiana. 
I0WA-» « -Ifoi'ifi—Gerald F. Harrington, '30, 708 44tli St., Dcs .Moines. Dubuqui—Williain Clemens, Jr., '43, 25 Nevada St.. Dubuque. Trl-CltUs (Davcnl)ort. Rock Island. Moline. E. Molinc)—James I'. Doyle. '42. 023 Davenport Bank Building. Davenport, Iowa. 
K.A.VS.AS—James E. Foley. '40. Inleriiallonal Har­vester Co.. COl W. North St.. Saliua, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY—Otto J. Mileti. "44. 1428 Audubon Parkway, Louisville, Kentucky. 
LOUISIAN.A—.V,.V Or/.«nj—William H. Johnston. '44, 5540 S. .Miro St.. New Orleans, La. 
NoTtkern Louisiana—James R. Novvery, '29, 
59W Fairfield, Shreveport, La. 
MARVL.\ND—;;o/i;.:ior,—James II. Murray. '41, 5113 Keniluorth .-\ve., Baltimore, -Md. 
-MASSACHUSETTS—flnjinn—Iohn T. Burke '29. 
145 Pinckney St.. Siiia- 535. Boston 14. Mass. Viont-er Vallt-y—.\rthur L. Demers, '35, 17 Gil­lette Ave.. Springfield, Mais. 
.MICHIGAN—/J.vrnn Connlv—Dr. Paul Leonard. '43, 214 S. Lincoln .\ve., -Niles, Mich. Blue Water Dijirir/—William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave.. Port Huron. Michigan Ccn(ro(—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes. '21, CM Willow, Lansing. 
«,ort..ru—Peter J. Keriian, Jr.. '49, 4475 \V. 
Outer Drive. Detroit. Mich. Delroil—Dr. Ilaney F. Broun. '24. 18002 Wildenu-re, Detioit, Mich. 
Grand Italnds and Western .Miebigan—John I. Flanagan. "35. 035 Lake Drive S.E.. Gnind Rapid's. -Midi. 
//iattalbahaJ—Gem'.tl E. Paveglio, '41, 401 W. W.ashington St.. .Martpn-Ite. .Mich. Iron Range—Ruben T. 0"C.allaghaii. '43. 035 McLeon .Ave.. Itonvvood. 
.Monroe—"I'htunas E. Grillin. '33. 317 Holly­uood Dr. .l/ii.;..(;oti—George W. Ca i, Jr.. "30, Inter­laken Rd., .\"ortli .Muskegtui. Sagina:f FoHo—Harold V. Lappin, '33, 508 Mc-Coskry St., Saginaw, Michigan. 
.MIXXESOI".\—/)u/u//;-.Siif,ri"or—Wm. E. Cotter. Jr.. "41, 114 I_auric St.. Diduth. ruin Ci/iri —Patrick A. Dougherty. '50. 1953 Fairmont St.. St. Paul 5, Minn. 
-MlSSISSIPPI-James Dtuiglierty, '49, 917 Arlingtim. Jackstui. Miss, 
.MISSOURI—A"»n.,i, Ci/v—(Mo. and Kans.) Rob-en .Mct/ler. "44. 31IK1 Walnut. Kansas Citv. .Mo. .•il. /.«»;.—James J. 0"."Vcal. '42. 336 Oakwood, Webster Groves. St. Louis, Mo. 
XEW JERSEY-Clark L. Revnolds. "38. 93 Low-ill Hill Rd.. .Mountain Lakes. X. J. Cil.o;—.Michael J. Ilalog, '34, 310 Watson .-\ve.. I'erth .-\tnhoy. .V. J. 
South Jersey—}:s,ncs A. Webb. '4il. 1915 49di St., Pemisanken. -X. J. 
XEW" .MEXICO—Cecil E. Jordan. '40. 4114 E. Marble .Ave.. .Mbnciuerquc. X. \l. 
NEW YORK—«ii/?a;<. — Janies 1". Clauss, '44, 20 Brendel .Ave., Hamburg. N. Y. Calntal Dislriel—Dr. Bernard A. DulFy. "33, 336 .New Scotland Ave., Albany. N. Y. Crnlraf—Rolwrt D. .MrAuliffc, '48, 227 Wey­mouth Rd,. Syracuse, N. Y. 
Golden Cirr/r—George F. Fitzgerald, '23. 719 .Main St.. Olean. X. Y. .\lid-Hud,on rnHrv-Jolin J. Kulin. "31, 33 llauiinen.ley .Ave.. Poughkeepsie, N. Y. .\loha:ek roHry-Louis I'. Clark. '34. 31 Wliites­boio St., Yorkville. New York. .V,:r 1".../. Citv-Allred I. Pcrriue, Jr., '41, Illfi-IJO 31st .Ave.. East Elndiurst, .X. Y. 
K..r/i,s(.i—John F. Heagnev. "47. 120 Whilcford 
Rd.. Rochester 2(1. X. Y. Seheneetady—Frank M. Linchan. '45, 1257 Gleu­wood Blvd.. Schenectady. N. Y. Triple Cities—Dr. I. Worden Kane, '26, 55 Riverside Dr., Binghamton. 
NORTH CAROLINA-Coro/i'no-Robert II. Pcrci­val. '48. 1355 Kings Dr., Charlotte, N. C. 
OHIO—.4tr.i;i—Steve Worni.ik, '28, 1201 First National 'Fower, .-Vkron, Ohio. Canton-Charles J. Kennedy, '49, 1615 Chcn-v Ave.. N. E. 
Cincinnoi;-John W. Fcad, '48, 8432 Wicklow 
.Ave.. Cincinnati 3G. Ohio. 
CI. ic/onrf—Florence J. McCarthy, Jr., '32, 1413 Wagar .Ave., Lakewood, Ohio. Columbus—John D. Igoe, '28, 2454 Kensington Rd., Columbus, Ohio. 
Dayton—Samuel J. Gibbons, '35, 001 E. Moim­
ment, Dayton, Ohio. Hamilton—Jerome A. Ryan, *4I, 744 Main St., Hamilton. 
Ohio Volley—Geomt! J. Sargm, '28, No. 1 OA 
Park, Wheeling. W. Va. .SanJuifr)'—Alfred A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, 3413 S. Columbus Ave. 
Toledo—James Murtagh, '48, 3112 Kenwood 
Blvd., Toledo. Ohio. roungi/oicH—William G. Lydcn, Jr., '50, 177 Brookline .Aveime. 
OKLAHOMA-OWo/tomo Cil)-—Robert McFarland, 
'42. 4022 .X. -MacArllinr. 'y"u(ia—Charles A. McNamara, Jr., '39, 621 E. Cameron. 'I'ulsa. 
ORF.GO.X—Thomas J. Magce, '32, 3016 N. E. 54th .Ave., Portland. 
PENNSYLVANIA — Central fennsyhania — Priiuo 
V. Lusardi, '50, 521 Pine St.. Hollidaysburg, Pa. Eastern—l.eo R. Mcliityre, '28, SOW Turner St., .Mlentown. 
fin".—Joseph C. Barber, '36, 705 Ariel Bldg. //orriW/urc-Louis C. O'Brien. '47. 1039 S. I3th St.. llarrisbiirg. Pa. 
Monongahela Valley—..\dolph V. Capano, '26, 733 McKcan .Ave., Donora. rMladeltMa—}o\m P. Dcmpscy, '49, 2028 S. 57lh St., Philadelphia. /'///liurc;!-Laurence R. Smith, '33, 1003 Park BItlg.. Pittsburgh, Pa. Seranton—John .-\. Kramer, '45, 121 Chmliiut St.. Dnmuore. Pa. 
ll"i"U.s-«n,r.—Thomas .M. Iliggins. "34. 262 S. 
River St.. Wilkes-Barre. Pa. iriWnm./.n.l-Peter P. SouKrville. '29, R. D. No. 3. Muncy, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND and S. E. .ALASS.ACHUSETTS —Russell L. Hunt. "38. 412 Providencj; St.. Woonsocket, R. I. 
TE.XXESSEE—C/nKlan.iocn — Thom.as B. Owen, '35, 4115 .\layfair Ave. .Memphis -W. James Tyrrell, '49, 416 Cecelia Drive. Memphis. 
TE.XAS—/W/./J—Dr. Llovd C. Bellamv. '32, 4201 llerschel St.. Dallas. "I'e.x. H ;"oo,—Robert E. O'.Malley. "44. 2007 .X. Flor­ence St. Houston—Paul J. Doyle, "30, 2009 Gramercy. Houston. 1'e.v. 
San .4iiloni"o—Ralph T. Stiuhs, '50, 370 Read-well Dr., San .Antonio. 
UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37, I0I7 Kearns Bldg., Salt I.akc City. 
VIRGINIA —Charles M. Morrison, '38, Pump House Road, Richmimd. 
•;"i"r/.a»/,•. —Phillip L. Russo. "49. 7314 Hampton Blvd.. .Apt. 1-C, .Norfolk, Virginia. WASHINGTO.V- .S/,„/;,i.i. —I"rank Ilerron. "35, .X. 23(^l Normandie. S|>okaue, Wash. ll'fj/,rn—Patrick J. Goggin, '30, 57'23 37th .Ave., .X. E., Seattle, Wash. 
WE.SI" \IRGI.XIA-Donahl G. Leis. "42. 410 Xel­son. St.. St. .Albans. West Viiginia. 
WISCOXSiN—/"ov «i";vr Valley—Cu'^ A. Ziiehlke. "43. 807 Piospect .Ave., .Appleton. W"is. f."r,-.ii /!ni—William F. Kerwin. Jr., "40, 414 E. Walmit St.. Green B.ay. Wis. 
UCros,,—Robert B. Ilackner, '43, 320 S. I7th St., LaCrossc. .l/i/aaiit,.—William G. D.iucette, '43, 2973 X. 49lli St.. .Milwaukee, Wis. South C.ntrn/—Philip JL Schwarz, "31, 2012 .Arbor Dr., Madison, Wis. 
FOREIGN CLUBS: Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24, (key man) Dacca, East Bengal. Cuba—Christopher C. Fit/gcndd. '94, (key man) dalle 8 Nuin 35 .Miramar, Habana. .Manila—Enritinc Brias. '37. c/o Roxas y Com­pania. Soriano Bldg.. Manila, Philippines. 
HAWAII—Thomas Hopkins. "30, Ft. Shatter, Iloimlulu.. MEXICO—.Mexico &"/)•—Tcltno DeLandero, '37, Eugenia Sue 220, Mc.\ico City. I'anama—William J. Shertdati, '34. Bo.v 60, .An­con. Canal Zone. Puerto nifo-Paul F. McManus. '34. (key man) 
B. S M. Products Co., Box 2695, San Juan. 
SOUTH .•\MERlC;\—r,rii—Andres M.alatcsta. '23, Caillotna 370, Lima, Peru. 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 





