The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
g" Mtmim^^^m 
THE NOTRE DAME 


ALUMNUS 
Alumni Board Meets 
{Page 3) 


Second Annual Fund 
(Page 5) 


^Father O'Donnell's Address 
(Page 7) 

The University Theatre Carries On: a Group from Gilbert and Sullivan's "Ruddigore/ presented Feb. 9-12 under the direction of Prof. Cecil Birder, '14. 

Vol. 22 FEBRUARY, 1944 No. 3 
c-u 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Immaculate Conception with the Virgin 


ALufuU RelifiaiU BulletUt 
iBY REV. JOHN P. LYNCH, C.S.C.: 
OUB LADY USES HOUYWOOD 

All advance reviews of the movie, "The Song of Bernadette," are "raves." This fact, plus the decided interest in 
religious themes, assures an enor­m o u s audience for the movie. 
We, the Sons of Notre Dame, should rejoice over this new public honor to Our Lady and Mother, whose Grotto of Lourdes 
FaOwr I«ndi 

is one of the mos t hallowed spots on our campus. 
We should rejoice and we should take advantage of this chance to turn atten­tion of our friends toward her and then on to her Son. 
Discussions of the movie will arise over coffee, tea and cocktails. There will be a lot of emotion in the discussion. Anything concerning Our Lady will in­evitably arouse emotion — but, in addi­tion to the emotional appeal, Our Lady and her appearance at Lourdes packed a powerful intellectual punch. 
Naturally, neither the book nor the movie stresses the U\o apologetic points involved, but they are present in the full story of Lourdes. We propose, in this article, to give you those two points, so that you can give your friends the com­plete story of Lourdes. 
Not everyone of us was able to bring glory to her name by playing football at Notre Dame, but everyone of us can use the movie to bring greater glory to her name with our friends. Catholic and non-Catholic, by giving them the full significance of Lourdes. 
ASKING FOR IT 

In discussing the movie, we shouldn't be "chicken." We shouldn't be afraid to "bring up religion" in our conversation. People are clamoring for it today and their interest and enthusiasm over the movie will be proof of it. In this dis­cussion and enthusiasm for the movie, they'll be "asking for it"—for religious discussion— and let's not muff or refuse to carry the ball when it's handed to us. 
Any discussion, of course, must be a discussion only; nothing bitter or con­troversial. If questions are asked or the discussion gets over your head, tell your friend you'll secure a pamphlet or book on Lourdes for him. (One of the best pamphlets is "Lourdes and Modem Mir­acles" securable from Paulist Press, New York City, or Notre Dame, for ten cents.) 
The points we stress are briefly these: 
(1)
 The appearance of Our Lady at Lourdes is a startling and modern con­firmation of the infallibility of the Pope. 

(2)
 Lourdes is a modern proof that miracles, meeting all the standards of science, are possible to God. 


INFALLIBIUTY CONFIRMED 

How did the appearance at Lourdes in 1858 confirm infallibility? It's simple —^four years before, i.e., lS5i, the Pope had declared the dogma of the Immacu­late Conception, i.e., that Our Lady had been conceived free from the stain of original sin. (We mustn't confuse the Birth, i.e., that Christ was bom. of a Virgin.) 
The intellectuals, agnostics and athe­ists of that so-called enlightened period ridiculed the Pope and his definition, saying that the people of 1854 were too advanced and too intelligent to believe in the infallibility of any Pope or to accept any so-called "dogma." The in­tellectuals had a grand time until four years later. Then, Our Lady struck— and stunned them! 
How? 
The book and movie show truthfully this point. The pastor told Bernadette to ask the "beautiful Lady" who she was. 
(a) When she was finally asked to identify herself, she didn't reply: "I am Mary" or "The Blessed Virgin." She didn't identify herself by any of her more common titles, but she said: 
"I AM THE IMMACULATE CONCEPTION" 
This dogma definition and the title hadn't yet percolated down to the peas­ants in isolated Lourdes, and the title didn't register easily with Bernadette; she kept repeating the name over and over again lest she forget it before she (Continued on page 11) 
A CENTURY PASSES 
One hundred years ago laist Saturday, the State of Indiana granted a charter to the Uni­versity of Notre Dame to build and operate an institution of higher learning near South Bend, in what was then a wilderness. 
Without much in the way of resources of any kind. Father Edward Sorin, of the Congregation of Holy Cross, began the building and operation of the Hoosier educational institution which to­day is known throughout the world. All around th earth, indeed, people know of Notre Dame who would have difficulty in bounding Indiana or perhaps even locating it generally as a state. 
Notre Dame exists for only one purpose — to teach men how to love and ser\'e their God. It trains men to be doctors, lawyers, priests, en^­neers. business men and many other things; but always, it teaches them, while being such to bear in mind their ultimate end as human beings. 
It recognizes that the purpose of education is to teach men to lead useful lives, but it adheres firmly to the central concept that no life is really useful unless mankind's eternal destiny is kept constantly in mind. 
It is jMssible that few persons in Indiana who have not had intimate contact with Notre Dame really know it. 
It is much more than an institution which has earned world fame in the field of sports. 
It is much more than an institution which was among the first to give the world pathetic rub­ber or to carry on outstanding scientific research. 
It is an institution which submerges the per­sonalities of all the men who have ever served it. 
in order that the Personality Who is God, and that the personality who was Mary, the Mother of Christ, jnay stand out. 
To Notre Dame, none of its illustrious builders means much except as he is related to the first purpose of the university. Men, such as Sorin, Corby, Badin, Morrisscy, Cavanaugh, Walsh. Bums. 0*Donnell, Rockne, O'Hara. NieuwIand. and the host of others, have all been only mem­bers of a "team" attempting to relate the origin and the destiny of man through the medium of the classroom. 
No great figure of Notre Dame would accept anything more than a small part of any credit for Notre Dame's success. 
He would be inclined, rather, to take his ad­mirers to a small community cemetery not far from the campus, where, beneath tiny crosses, lies what little remains of the hundreds of hum­ble priests and Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross who have gone to their rewards. 
They were the builders of Notre Dame; and the stuff with which they were builded was a self-forgetting devotion to God, and "our Lady." after whom the University is named. 
"The Song of Bernadette." by Franz Werfel, is a beautiful story of devotion to Mary in words. 
The story of Notre Dame's first one hundred years is another such song to Mary—^but written in the lives of the men who both gave to and took from the University of Notre Dame much that is not reckonable in ordinary terms of value. —CUffard B. Ward. '23, in tile Fort Wayne (Ind.) "Newv-Sentind** of Jan. 19, 1944. 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This masrazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indianm. Entered ns second class matter October 1, 1939, at the FostofBce, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of Au^st 24. 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. 
Jeonei E. Annstiong, '25, Editor; Wmiieaa B. Doolar, '28. Managing Editor 
VOL. 22 FEBRUARy. 1944 NO. 3 
Alumni Board Meeting January 23 
As a result of a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association on Sunday, Jan. 23, the Alumni Associ­ation of the University of Notre Dame may well mark its Diamond Jubilee Year as one in complete accord wnth the progress of Notre Dame as reflected in the University's own Centenary. 
Quickly and by major points, these are the plans: 
1.
 Organization of the Local Clubs in­to articulate channels for the develop­ment of a Catholic lay leadership in the field of preserving the fundamentals of American democracy. 

2.
 Rewriting the Association Consti­tution on a new and broader concept. 

3.
 Establishment of the Association on a calendar year. 

4.
 Ee-establishment of Universal Notre Dame Night on the Monday after Eas­ter Monday (in 1944, on April 17). 

5.
 Oflicial establishment of the Notre Dame Club of New York's Universal Communion Snnday project, on the Sun­day nearest the Feast of the Immacu­late Conception (Dec. 8). In 1944, this is Sunday, Dec. 10, with Dec. 3 being recognized if the 10th presents major conflicts in any given community. 

6.
 Launching immediately of the Sec­ond Annual Alumni Fund, for 1944, with a goal of a minimum equal to last year's Fund ($107,424.13), and a mini­mum of 5,000 alumni contributing as against last year's 3,462. 

7.
 Sending the ALUMNUS in its com­plete form, with Class and Club news, only to the graduates in service, and to the contributors to the Fund. (A news letter will be sent to non-contributors, based on each ALUMNUS but not con­


Extensive Plans Provide for Great 
Expansion of the Association's Pro-
Sram, With Much Broader Objectives 

taining Class and Club and some other information of interest.) 
8.
 Study of the problem of placement, particularly as it will be a vital factor in postwar problems of returning alumni. 

9.
 Securing at as early a date as pos­sible of a Field Secretary for the Asso­ciation, a man whose duty would be pri­marily to visit Local Clubs. 


President Thomas Byrne, Cleveland, presided at the meeting, which was pre­ceded by a long informal discussion on Saturday night, and by a Mass in Corby Chapel on Sunday morning, said by Rev. John Cavanangh, C.S.C., at which all ofiicers and directors received Commun­ion. The meeting itself was opened and closed with prayer. These things are mentioned- to indicate a new approach to the entire alumni program.. 
Other directors present were Gerald Ashe and E. Bradley Bailey, vice-presi­dents, of Rochester, N. Y., and Balti­more, Md., respectively, and John T. Balfe, New York City, together with James E. Armstrong and William Dooley of the Alumni Ofiice. Governor Harry F. Kelly made a motion by long distance phone from his own oflice in Lansing, where the special session of the Michi­gan legislature had him tied up. And Rev. Michael Moriarty sent a motion by President Byrne from Cleveland, where his new post as pastor of St. Catherine's Church confined him. 
You can appreciate that much might be written on any of the points listed for action. 
1. The proposal to make the Clubs channels within their areas for the tjrpe of articulate Catholic and American leadership for which Notre Dame trains her alumni came after a discussion in December between President Byrne and Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University and alumni Honorary President. It will call for the full co­operation of the established members of the Local Clubs, but it will insure a Club program to which young and old, and especially the returning alumni from the armed forces, will subscribe in full. It promises to do more than anything in our history to justify the 100 years of preparation by the Univer­sity for such a period of history. 
2.
 The Constitution was written in a depression era, when our problem was existence. Conditions unforeseen then have made some of it obsolete, all of it short of the goals of the new program. 

3.
 With commencements suspended for the duration, and with no class re­unions or annua! meetings of the Asso­ciation, the Board agreed that all other factors in our program argue for a cal­endar year. Hence the agreement for Club and Fund programs that the Asso­ciation be on the calendar year which will aid football ticket preference, elec­tions, etc. Since contributions were due for the current year last June, the pres­ent conception of the period as the year 1944 constitutes a "forgiveness" period of six months. But maybe that shouldn't have been brought up. Give now, and you are in good standing until Jan. 1, 1945. 

4.
 Universal Notre Dame Night, like many things suspended last year, is deemed to serve a purpose greater than those served by its suspension. Since 1924, it has been an annual renaissance of Notre Dame spirit throughout the world. With that spirit taking the tan­gible form of the new program, the Night becomes even greater in its im­portance. 

5.
 Universal Communion Snnda y 



The Notre Dame Alumnus 
needs no explanation. (The Board also expressed approval, but as a separate project for the attention of the individu­al alumnus or the Club, of the family rosary movement being sponsored so successfully by Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., Albany, N. Y.) 
6.
 See the separate story for the Fund. 

7.
 The sending of the ALU.MNUS, com­plete, to all alumni, contributors or non-contributors, is no longer possible with more than 13,000 on the mailing list. Consequently, while there is no desire to shut off the University from any alumnus, the "luxury" items, such as Class and Club news, and some features of the magazine, will have to be omitted for non-contributors, who will receive basic information in a news-letter. 

8.
 Placement has been reduced dur­ing the war to a scattering of contacts and long-range provisions. The Board is anxious to studj' its implications from here on. A committee is being appointed by President Byrne, with the coopera­tion of Mr. Dooley, to make this study, so that we can be ready for the vital work of rehabilitation of our Notre Dame men in service. 

9.
 The Field Secretary is not a fancy touch. At the present time, the Alumni Office staff is conducting at least five major executive entei'prises. -411 of them argue against absence from the campus. Yet the success of a Club program, and much of the other work of the Associa­tion, thrives on contact through travel. Hence the Field Secretary would be the third leg of a triangle, contributing greatly to unity and progress in our whose program. 


This is a brief summary of the pro­posed changes. In their significance they can be as great as your cooperation will permit them to be. 
As Alumni Secretary for 18 years, I can say that never before have the Board of Directors and the University administration seen the possibilities of alumni work so clearly, and so eye-to­eye. 
Never before has the structure ap­peared so definite in its blue-prints for years ahead. 
We have existed for 75 years, through many periods of difficulties. Now, if you will support the Board in its program, we will begin to be a live organization, effecting good that will in turn be of in­estimable value to God and country, as well as to Notre Dame. 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG 
Alumni Secretary 

JOHN J. RYAN, ex. '33, was last fall " elected a vice-president of the Repub­lic Aviation Corp., Farmingdale, L, I., 
N. Y. 
John joined the company as counsel on July 1, 1941, after being associated with the New York City legal firm of Bleakley, Piatt and Walker. He handled for Republic the legal aspects of the financing of an expansion program •which included the construction of new plants at Farmingdale and at Evansville, Ind. In his new capacity as vice-president he will continue as counsel. 
A native of Eye, N. Y., John was at Notre Dame in 1929-31 and was later graduated from the Fordham law school. 
WILLIAM J. SHERRY, ex. '21, geol­
''^ ogist and oil producer of Tulsa, Okla., was on Dec. 6 raised to knight­hood in the Order of the Holy Sepulchre. Officiating in the ceremony, in the Bish­op's chapel, Oklahoma City, was Most Rev. Francis C. Kelley, LL.D., '07, bishop of Oklahoma City and Tulsa, assisted by Most Rev. Edwin V. O'Hara, LL. D., '17, bishop of Kansas City, Mo., and Rt. Rev. Msgr. J. B. Dudek, chancellor of the Oklahoma-Tulsa diocese. 
Distinguished by his wide and substan­tial participation in church affairs, as well as in civic affairs. Bill Sherry is also one of the most widely known oil men in the country. Attending Notre Dame in 1917-19, he received his B.S. from 
M.I.T. in 1921. He is a steadfast mem­ber of the Notre Dame Club of Okla­homa and was president of that organ­ization in 1940. He and his wife, the former Margaret Harrington, are the parents of six children. 
The investiture ceremony was follow­ed by a delightful banquet in the Bilt­more Hotel, Oklahoma City, at which the master of ceremonies was C. A. Breitung, San Antonio, Texas, a close friend and benefactor of the University. Bishop Edwin O'Hara was one of the speakers. 
FOURTH CLASS GRADUATED 

The United States Naval Reserve Mid­shipmen School at Notre Dame graduat­ed its fourth class on Jan. 20, when 1,170 new ensigns received their com­missions in the Navy Drill Hall on the campus. Speaker for the occasion was Rear Admiral -Aj1;hur S. Carpender, U.S.N., Great Lakes, 111., commandant of the Ninth Naval District 
The fifth midshipman class, contain­ing a large group of recent Notre Dame graduates, began, on Feb. 7, its four-month stretch toward commissioning. 

FIRE MYSTERY SOLVED 

The mystery surrounding a series of campus fires was solved in mid-Decem­ber with the announcement by naval authorities and FBI agents that a con­fession had been obtained from a V-12 trainee whose name was withheld. The boy was transferred to a naval hospital for study of his mental condition. 

ABOUT FATHER FARLEY 

Redman Duggan, '38, Ogden, Utah, contributed to the January, 1944, Exten­sion Magazine, an excellent character study of the late Rev. John "Pop" Far­ley, C.S.C, under the title, "A Man To Remember." 


Directors Launch Second Annual Fund 
Goal Is Minimum of Last Year's Efforts; $107,424.13, With Minimum Contributors Number Raised from 3,462 to 5,000. Class Representatives Continue 
Heralding the Centenary Fund, first year in the new fund raising program 
of the Association, as indicative of great possibilities for the progress of Notre Dame, the Alumni Board, with the com­plete sanction of the University, moved to launch the Second Annual Fund, for the calendar year 1944. 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., presi­dent of Notre Dame, indicates in a statement in this ALUMNUS, the gi-eat aid to the University which came from last year's initial effort. Its future aid to Notre Dame, in the light of prob­lems ahead, is difficult to estimate. But definitely it will be of even gi-eater need and help within the year ahead. 
Reasons for giving are .well known to alumni. 
Despite its high ranking as an edu­cational institution, and its ability through 100 years to keep its physi­cal plant on a relatively progressive basis, you know that the University's endowment of slightly over a million dollars is one of the lowest of any ma­jor institution. This situation is the primary one which the annual fund is designed to solve, along the "living en­dowment" line. Each year's contribu­tion, used as it is given, represents a much larger capital endowment than we might be expected to raise through any form of "drive" in the immediate future. 
Notre Dame needs buildings. In spite of the many new and lovely structures which have given alumni so much pleas­ure and service, you are familiar with the fact that Washington Hall is long outgrown. The Administration Building requires some drastic remodeling. Car­roll and Brownson are of questionable value for much longer. St. Edward's and Badin are aging. The Art Galleries and the Library are pushing each other until the present fine looking structure actually bulges at the seam. Reci'eation­al facilities and the campus stores are scattered about in various out of the way places, arguing toward a union building, which might embody the long sought Knights of Columbus quarters and perhaps those elusive rooms for alumni who want to stay on the campus 
(Continued on Page 6) 

FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY 
During the Centenary Year the alumni significant number in the services res­gave another substantial indication of ponded generously. Now that the Assod­their loyalty to Notre Dame, for which we otion has established the fund who are currently charged with Unirersity nual basis, I am confident that the sec­affairs are genuinely grateful. The Alum­ond year will be even more successful ni Association's participation in the Cen­than the first. tenary Fund amounted to $107,424.13. with 
In accordance with the wishes of the 

3.462. or 33 per cent of the entire member­officers of the Alumni Association, the 
ship contributing. Although the number fund raised will be allocated to the sup­
who gave does not seem large, the Asso­port of certain undertakings at the Uni­
ciation has good reason to be encour­aged. Unusual difficulties were met; to 
versity which, without tliis support we soy that the times are not normal is the would have to suspend, or at least curtoil. ultimate in understatement. Thousands of because of the war. After setting aside alumni and old students—almost 5,000 to one or two large gifts which were given be exact—are not following their usual for spediic purposes, the University 
occupations, but are in our country's Council has decided to distribute the re­armed forces in all parts of the world, mainder for the following general pur-' from Italy to the Solomons. Even so, a poses: 
1. Expenses connected with the operation of the Alumni Association bom January, 1942, to January, 1944 _$27,426.5I 
The Centenary Fund replaces the former payment of annual dues. Hence, part of it will be uFed to print the ALUMXtJS, pay salaries of the secretary and assist­ant secretary', maintain club orcanixations and class programs, etc. 
The Graduate School of the University-12.0000)0 
Publication of research studies of certain members of the faculty; also support of publications of the School of Mediaeval Studies; The Review of Polities, The American Miiiland Naturalist, Reports of a Mathctiiatieal CoUoquium, and other learned publications of the University. 
Travel expenses connected with faculty representation at meetings of 
learned societies, educational gatherings, and other important events 3,400J10 library Fund, for both the University and departmental libraries— 20,000jn Emergency Fund for the CoUege of Law 7JXNU10 Faculty Fund for advance study .__ io,ooojn 
79,82&5I 

TOTAL CENTENARY FUND ALUMNI PARTICIPATION. 107,424.13 Less difference between Maturity Value and present Cash Value of United States Savings Bonds constituting part of this fund..._ 6,811.70 Less special purpose gifts of 20.000JIO 26,811.70 
Net cash available for distribution^ 80,621.43 Allocated as above — 79.826.51 
Available for future use 78532 
The foregoing will give the alumni a versities generally are suffering from the general idea of how the Centenary Fund impact of the war, and Notre Dame ia no is being used. If you recall my previous exception. I know, therefore, thai our statement in the Alumnus about our co­alumni will be happy to respond, in great­operation with the Navy on a strictly cost er numbers and a correspondingly greater basis and the loss of revenue because of amount, to the second appeal of the no­decreasing civilian enrollment, you will tional officers. readily see that a similar fund raised an­
MKth appredafion and all good wishes 

nually by our devoted sons will help in (Rev.) J. HUGH O'DONNELL. C.S.C 
the operation of the University during this critical period. Privately-controlled uni­President of the University of Notre Dame. 
overnight A graduate hall is needed. And the administration undoubtedly has even other plans which aren't necessary for this picture right now. 
The University of Chicago has, if memory serves me rightly, 65 endowed chairs. Which means that if all their students were to be called into service, the University might hold a powerful nucleus of its faculty if it wished, with­out regard to its students income or to other fiscal problems. You can see the implications where there are only two endowed chairs, those inadequate to meet normal salary requirements in full. 
Whatever the government does for the returning service man, all schools must be prepared to offer aid to the un­usual student, or the boy who may not qualify for some reason. Notre Dame cannot adequately meet that situation, with most of her scholarship funds defi­nitely restricted. 
Father O'Donnell's statement of the splendid uses to which the Centenary Fund has already been allocated is in­dicative of the power of such a Fund to add stature to the academic and cul­tural as well as the practical side of the University. This is the field in which credit is reflected upon every alumnus. These are the values that add richness to your diploma in whatever year you may have received it. 
Our own faculty members will be able to work toward their doctorates. Our library, suflTering now a real emergency curtailment, can begin to grow again, and to avoid the inestimable damage that comes from complete lapses in the acquisition of material. 
Travel of professors to conventions of learned societies has long been a source of problems. The University could only take such funds from current in­come, difficult in many instances to rec­oncile. The professor could only take such funds from slim personal resources, often unjustifiable in a critical period. And the alumni, anxious to meet and know these representatives from the campus, had no definite knowledge of who might attend such meetings, and no claim on their cooperation. The allo­cation of a part of the Alumni Fund to such representation gives the Uni­versity a voice in the national conven­tions of learned organizations. It re­lieves the mutual financial strain of such representation. And it gives the faculty members so aided an obligation toward the Alumni Club in the conven­
tion area which will be discharged in most instances with pleasant results for alL 
The publications of the University, 

like its libraries, are the media through which its academic stature and progress are evident to the outside world, to the standardizing agencies, to contemporary education. Hence the allocation of funds to the publications of the graduate schools is as logical and as far-reaching in its constructive effects as the contri­butions to the libraries. 
The coincidence of the new program of the Alumni Board and the use of the Centenary Fund by the University augurs well for the Association future. You have heard many times from many sources that this war can be lost in the peace that follows it. But not if you will support the program that now lies be­fore you, and spread its fundamentals to the channels in which a sjmipathy and a coordinated effort should be found. 
This is the opportunity for every Notre Dame man to justify that glori­ous mantle he has worn so long, for so little.—J. E. A. 
The 24th Football Banquet 
National Champions Hon­ored in Cvic Testimonial 
The Fighting Irish of 1943, voted the nation's top football team by sports writers in a coast-to-coast poll, were told by Coach Frank Leahy "that no finer football team ever represented Notre Dame" at the 24th annual testi­monial banquet of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley at the Indiana Club on Jan. 5. More than 500 alumni and friends packed the banquet hall to capacity. 
"It would be terribly unfair of me," the director of Notre Dame's athletics said at the opening of his address, "to evaluate Notre Dame's 1924 team (the Four Horsemen) as it was never my pleasure to see that club play. As for the 1943 team, I want to say that I was proud and pleased to have served as coach for in my opinion no finer football team ever represented Notre Dame than the one of last year." 
The players and diners also heard stirring praise heaped upon the Irish by opponent's coaches. From Lieut. Don Faurot, headman of the Iowa Pre­flight's Seahawks who were defeated, 14-13, by Notre Dame last season, they heard the 1943 team rated "as probably the greatest in the history of football." 
Lieut. Paul D. (Tony) Hinkle, whose Great Lakes team was the only one which whipped the Irish last year, and then in a dramatic fashion on a for­ward pass in the final seconds of play, expressed in a lighter vein "that after. 27 years being associated with Notre Dame athletics it wasn't asking too much for one rich plum." 
Notre Dame's "unflinching will to win" was the cardinal reason for the team's success last year in the opinion of Clark Shaughnessy, whose University of Pittsburgh eleven was crushed, 41-0, in the inaugural game for the Irish last season. 
William Fox, Jr., '20, sports editor of the JridiaiiapoKs News, labeled the club a "family team, one which circulated among its kind and a club which cloaked triumphs in modesty. In speaking for the press, I am sure the press has al­ready spoken. It voted the Irish the national championship. What more can I add?" 
From Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice-president of the University and chairman of the Board in Control of Athletics, those present heard that "the 1943 team was outstanding because of its fighting spirit which emulated the spirit of Notre Dame." Father Cava­naugh represented the University in place of Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president, who was unable to attend. 
Spicing the program with humor was Don McNeiU, of Chicago, radio network personality. Vocalists Dan Ryan, Chi­cago, and Robert Eldridge, Elkhart, Ind., were well received. Incidental music was played by Roy Graveel, blind or­ganist, and Orville R. Foster and his sister. Marguerite. 
Mayor Jesse I. Pavey launched the speaking portion of the program in ex­tending greetings on behalf of South Bend citizens and congratulated the team and its coaches on last season's great showing. Mayor Pavey was intro­duced by James E. Armstrong, national secretary of the Alumni Association, who served as toastmaster after being introduced by Walter M. Langford, president of the host club. Capt. J. Rich­ard Barry, U.S. Navy, commanding of­ficer at the Naval School at Notre Dame, Ommander Russell Cook, at Great Lakes, Lieut. Larry (Moon) Mul­lins, assistant coach of the Seahawks and former Irish fullback, and Capt. Pat Filley gave talks. 




From Log Cabin to University 
By REV. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C. President of the University 

An address at the luncheon sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis on the occasion of the Cen­tenary of the Charter of the University, Jan. 15, 1944. 
Three dates in the very early history of Notre Dame are worthy of remark. The first is Sept. 14, 1841. On that day Father Sorin and his little group of de­voted religious landed in New York. The second is Nov. 26,1842, when he arrived on the shores of St. Mary's Lake, the scene of his future labors, after a ten-day journey by ox-cart from Vincennes during one of the severest winters in the history of the Middle West. The third is Jan. 15,1844, when the State of Indiana gave its official sanction to the infant university that Sorin established in re­alization of the dream that brought him across the sea from his native France. 
It is this third event whose centenary we observe today, and we become remin­iscent as we reflect upon time's muta­tions. One hundred years ago, when Father Sorin came to his journey's end, there was on the lake shore only a log cabin containing a chapel and one living room. A replica of it still stands hard by Old College, the first building erected by the Founder. Both are reminders of the humble origins of the university-city of more than 45 buildings on a 1,500 acre campus. 
One hundred years is a long time in the life of man, but a short span in the life of a university. Yet in those hundred years Notre Dame overcame obstacles that would have daunted a lesser man than Sorin. During the first half century especially, Notre Dame knew the pinch of poverty. More than once the school narrowly escaped being sold for debt. Once the entire available operating cap­ital was exactly fifty cents. On another occasion the horses were taken from the stable and sold to the highest bidder to satisfy a creditor. In 1853-54 came a plague of cholera which ravaged the school for two months. Those who es­caped the contagion were too few to care for the sick and bury the dead. The worst disaster of all was the fire of 1879 which in a few hours destroyed almost every­thing that had been accomplished in 46 years. Only the church remained stand­ing. Father Sorin, who was on his way to Europe, was called back. His remark was characteristic. "If all were gone," he said, "I should not give up," and with that he set about building a greater No­tre Dame on the ruins of the old. 
In her hundred years Notre Dame has seen our national heritage, which was bom in sti-uggle and sacrifice, imperiled by a civil war, come forth stronger than ever. Now our beloved country is once more fighting for its life. As in the Civil War, the Spanish-American War, and World War I, Notre Dame has placed her facilities at the government's dis­posal. 
We have completely geared ourselves for war. We are cooperating with the Navy on a cost basis. Three-fourths of the student body is in uniform, so you can readily see the impact the war is having on civOian enrollment, with .nc­companying financial loss. On the cam­pus is a Naval Beserve Midshipmen's School. Lights bum late in Chemistry Hall, Science Hall, the Biology Building, and the John F. Cushing Hall of Engin­eering as our research workers carry on special projects for the Federal Govern­ment. The former fall and spring semes­ters have given way to a three-term schoolyear. Many familiar figures are gone from the faculty because so many have been granted leaves of absence, either to join the arm^ forces, or to take up government work for which their talent and experience fits them. Twenty-two priests of Holy Cross have been ac­cepted as chaplains. More than 5,000 alumni and students are in service, and the number is constantly growing. In Sacred Heart Church hangs a flag with 75 gold stars, one for each Notre Dame man who has given his life for his coun­try. 
These and other changes have come about because Notre Dame herself, the possessor of a timeless philosophy, can­not change. Her obligations, now and hereafter, have been determined by her complementary traditions of American patriotism and Christian education, by her inseparable loyalties to God and country. She cannot do more than she is doing, and she will not do less. 
Because of these loyalties, I am par­ticularly pleased that the Notre Danw Club of Indianapolis is observing this day. And I am happy to take iiart in your observance for many reasons. One of them is that I wish to honor John Def rees, a resident of South Bend and a state Senator, who came to Father Sorin and offered to procure from the legisla­ture a charter setting up at Notre Dame a university with the legal tigkt to exist and grant degrees. Mr. Defrees, a Meth­odist, admired the Founder's courage. He noted that Sorin had begun what promised to be a good educational in­stitution, and this was his way of show­ing his regard. Notre Dame will always ronember him as one of her earliest benefactors. 

As an historian, I look upon the charter as something more than a legislative for­mality that made Notre Dame a "body corporate and politic." Actually, it was another recognition of an educational philosophy that had its b^^innings two thousand years ago in Galilee when the Apostles were bidden to go and teach all nations. From that day to this the tradition has ronained unbroken; and it is so universal that it could be as much at home in the Indiana of Sorin as it was in Europe during the golden age of Scholasticism. Why? Because it is predicated upon the eternal truths that the end of man is God, and that know­ledge of God is the beginning of wisdom. The founders of our country based thm hopes for the perpetuity of American institutions upon these truths. It is well to remember this fact, especially whoi so many of the things that we hold sac­red are bdng attacked by foreign en­emies, and, seemingly, also being called into question here at home. 
We cannot emphasize too strongly, or repeat too often, that the American tra­dition is a Christian tradition. The found­ing fathers were religious-minded men who had a staimch bdief in the existence of God, the (zod-given ri^ts of man, and the intrinsic dignity and integrity of the human personality. They stated their convictions in the Declaration of Inde­pendence, which is an American act of 
faith; applied them practically in the Constitution; and re-stated them in the Northwest Ordinance of 1787 when they set up the government for the territory out of which our own state of Indiana would one day would be formed. Let me remind you of one section of that Ordi­nance because it is pertinei»t to what I want to say to you today: "Religion, morality and knowledge being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of education shall forever be encouraged." 
But for many years this concept has been opposed by secularists—exponents of the glorified man philosophy, denying God and basic morality—^vho have been becoming more and more of a bad in­fluence in education, government, and other phases of our national life. One of their most notable successes has been to remove from education its very sub­stance, that is, religion. After certain educators cynically took God out of the schools and set up in His place a man-made philosophy of pleasure and e.xpedi­ency, the nation adopted a cafeteria morality. We began to chouse what pleased us, and to reject what seemed distasteful. We began to give a willing ear to the proponents of divorce, birth control, planned parenthood, and other groups that, under the guise of social betterment, attacked family rights and individual rights. Witness the current wave of juvenile delinquency which has its roots in a system of education which has largely cast aside a belief in God and the moral law. But I need not re­view the effects of a godless training. They are apparent, and a cause of gi-ave concern to all who believe in objective morality. 
Since secularist doctrine leads natur­ally to "state-ism," that is, the subor­dination of the individual to the state— the secularists next step was completely logical. Having accomplished the separ­ation of religion and education, and of course having denied that religion has any place in government, they looked to the federal control of education. How­ever, they do not state their objective so baldly. On the surface their motives may appear praiseworthy, and even patriotic. Two years ago, for example, the Federal Government, faced with vast problems of war finance, needed ad­ditional revenue and sources of revenue. There was a prompt proposal to set lim­its on those deductions on estate ta.xes that now permit ^fts for charitable and educational purposes. I do not contend that the real objective was to make up to the colleges by federal subsidy the funds they would lose as a result. I do contend, however, that the proposal was sinister. Had it been adopted, the investment 
CHARTER CENTENARY OBSERVED 
One of the most impressive Local Club functions of the war era, and one which did much to salvage the Centenary consciousness of the University, was the luncheon held at the Indianapolis Athletic Club on Jan. 15 by the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis, commemorating the 100th anniversary of the issu­ing of the charter to the University by the State of Indiana. 
Reprinted here is the impressive address delivered by the president of the University, Father Hugh O'Donnell, which highlighted the occasion. Notre Dame's honor in its o^\^^ state was reflected in splendid talks by His Excellency, Gov. Henry Schricker of Indiana; Very Rev. Msgr. Henry Dugan, chancellor of the Diocese of Indian­apolis, Dr. Clement Malan, State superintendent of schools, and Dr. 
M. O. Ross, president of Butler. More than 250 alumni and dis­tinguished citizens of the Indiana capital were gathered for the meet­ing. William F. Fox Jr., '20, was toastmaster for the occasion with a pace-setting finesse worthy of special note. 
Much of the excellent work of preparation which the meeting re­flected was done by Walter J. Stuhldreher, president of the Club; by P. C. Reilly, lay trustee of the University and general chairman of the luncheon; George A. Smith, Sr. on publicity; Tom Umphrey on tickets; Fred Mahaffey and Wil­liam J. Mooney, Jr. on reception, and the membership as a whole, which turned out in a manner which surprised even the Club. 
J. Arthur Haley, director of public relations, and James E. Armstrong, publicity and alumni director, ac­companied Father O'Donnell to Indianapolis for the occasion. 

portfolio of every privately-owned college and university would have suffered so severely as to make it necessary to seek other methods of financing their opera­tions. And what those methods would be, I am still at a loss to say. Many educators called attention to the danger, as I did myself in an address to the Alumni Association in May, 1942. Al­though the measure came to naught, we thought then—and later attempts at tax levies have proved us right—that it was only a skirmish in a coming battle for control. 
Can it be that we are now facing the preliminary stage of that battle? There is evidence to be found in a federal-aid bill now before both houses of Congress. If enacted, it would provide $300,000,000 to be distributed among the states as additional support for primary and sec­ondary schools. The announced purpose sounds innocent enough. Such aid, we are told, would help "to keep competent teachers in the schools" at a time when the average annual salary of teachers in the United States is ?600 below the average wage of factory workers. That state of affairs is deplorable, and I do not know anybody who would not like to remedy it. But establishment of federal aid, as suggested, would, in my opinion, also establish in education a federal bureaucracy of a nature and scope that should alarm not only the public, but also the very teachers who ai-e the pre­sumable beneficiaries. 
That our schools need greater support cannot be denied, but we cannot streng­then them by sloughing off local and state responsibility and placing control in the hands of a remote commissar of education. If you do not think that fed­eral subsidy, would mean federal con­trol, may I remind you that he who pays the piper always calls the tune. And to support my contention about the pre­liminary stage of the battle, may I quote a statement from the current issue of the N.E.A. journal which came to my desk only yesterday. These are the words of Willard E. Givens, executive secre­tary of the National Education Assoc­iation: "We will take this fight to the people in the 1944 elections if necessary, but we believe the battle can be won this winter if we all work together." So you see, gentlemen, there is reason to be ap­prehensive. 
Before I continue, I v.-ish to make a distinction betiveen the kind of federal subsidy I have just mentioned, and the proposed grants that will permit return­ing veterans to secure the education that the war interrupted, and thereby take their rightful places in the society they are now fighting to save. The latter are an appropriate, but not a complete, re­compense made by a grateful nation to its sons who were willing to give their lives for it. But even here it should be pointed out that no federal educational agency should have complete administra­tion of the fund. In my opinion, it prop­erly comes within the scope of the Vet­erans' Administration, which has at its disposal the valuable experience acquired after World War I. This body, working in conjunction with the American Coun­cil on Education, a voluntary organiz­ation of colleges and universities, should be fully competent to handle the project. Let us steer clear of any method that 
gives educational bureaucrats an oppor­tunity to bask in the sunshine of a billion-dollar fund. The implications are too serious. 
I cannot refrain from adding that the returning veterans would be well within their rights in calling us to account if during their absence we fail to curb per­nicious movements that are undermining the institutions we sent them abroad to protect. Where is the sense in fighting on scores of foreign fronts to preserve the God-given unalienable rights of man, and at the same time failing to check the enemies from within whose goal is to make government man's master in­stead of man's servant? There is no dif­ference in the color between the octopus of "state-ism" and the totalitarianism of the Axis countries—^both are a jaded pink. 
While rejecting this pernicious philos­ophy, let us get back to sound govern­mental principles. We must re-assume local authority and local responsibility, because good government begins at home. And let us remember, too, that the Fed­eral Government did not wrest our pre­rogatives from us. We surrendered them voluntarily. We have been running to Washington with problems that our fore­fathers would have solved for themselves. When the pressure at the city water works goes down, the blood pressure of the city fathers goes up, and their first thought is to entrain for the nation's capital to seek advice and counsel—and also a federal grant. They think they are putting their hands in Fortunatus' purse; actually they are lifting the lid on Pandora's box. The way of our an­cestors was the American way. They jealously guarded the autonomy of local self government and were quick to resent any enci'oachment on it. Unless we over­come our indifference, local self govern­ment may become a complete anachron­ism in the United States, and, for that matter, so may democracy itself. 
The prospect is not one to be regarded with equanimity, and in the name of the University of Notre Dame, which for more than a century has been a bulwark of American democracy, I must protest against any individual act or concei-ted movement that would weaken the Amer­ican heritage. 
On this important anniverary in Notre Dame's history, I have tried. Governor Schricker, to give you and the alumni here a brief account of Notre Dame's stewardship of her charter. I should like to conclude by telling you, the Chief Ex­ecutive of this glorious old state of In­diana, what we of Notre Dame think and feel at this critical time in the his­tory of our nation. 
In the dark hours that our country has known in the past, our fathers al­ways turned to God. That is what we should do now, if we wish to gain His favor. And on the temporal side we must take renewed interest in our government —local, state, and federal—and see that its basic philosophy is maintained. Eter­nal vigilance is still the price of liberty. Hence we must be alive to the dangers that threaten the soul of America, and enlighten others as to the consequences of un-American movements from within. The soul of America is America of the soul. It must be preserved, and Notre Dame believes that true education will help to preserve it. Our program stresses the development of all man's faculties, intellectual and spiritual. It is grounded on a sound philosophy of life. It never compromises truth. Surely, if we are fighting to save the God-given rights of man, our youth must be taught to know and appreciate those rights and their corresponding duties. 
So, on this January 15, 1944, I assure you that although we are living in a fast-changing world, Notre Dame can make no change in principle. We shall continue to nui-ture the Christian tradi­tion in education, which is essentially the American tradition. We shall insist, as we have always insisted, upon the educa­tion of the whole man. We shall not sub­mit to the secularist philosophy that makes a man a glorified animal respon­sible neither to God nor basic morality. We shall insist on the dignity of man and the sacredness of the human person­ality. We shall, please God, remain faithful to the Christian doctrine—^the American doctrine—of the natural rights of man, which are his in his creation, the embodiment of the triune gifts of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happi­ness. As long as there is an America, there will be a Notre Dame. 

NEW DINING HALLS MANAGER 

Eugene F. Connolly, manager of the Notre Dame Dining Halls since 1932, submitted his resignation effective Dec. 15, it was announced by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the Uni­versity. 
Mr. Connolly was succeeded by D. C. Ford, of Swift & Co., Chicago, who was assistant manager of the sales promotion and procurement division of the hotel contract and institution department of that company. 
Coming to Notre Dame in 1932, Mr. Connolly succeeded the late Robert Bor­land, first manager of the new dining hall project. Mr. Connolly resigned to devote full time to the business he re­cently acquired known as "Ye Huddle" 
near the John Adams High School in 
South Bend. 
Mr. Ford had been with Swift & Co. 
since 1927. He is a graduate of Cornell 
University, Ithaca, N. Y. His experience 
with Swift included many hotel and in­
stitutional projects in the Mid-West, 
New England, New York and New Jer­
sey. 


22 C S. C CHAPLAINS 

Twenty-two priests of the United States province of the Congregation of Holy Cross are, as of Feb. 1, serving as chaplains in the armed forces. They are the following: 
Chflplain Edward R. Fitzcerald. '30, 2nd Serv­ice Group, U.S. Army Air Force, APO 860. c^o Postmaster, • New York, N. Y. 
Chaplain Joseph D. Barry, '2D. 157th Infan­try, APO -15, c/o Postmaster, New York, N. Y. Chaplain George J. Welsh. '29, 8th Med. Bn., AFO 8. c/o Postmaster, New York. N. Y. Chaplain Robert W. Woodward. '28, 245 Coast Artillery, Fort Hancock, N. J. 
Chaplain Joseph J. Corcoran, '30, 136th Infan­try, APO 4592, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. 
Chaplain Joseph M. Kmiecik. '30. Air Base Hdq.. APO 729. c/o Postmaster. Seattle. Wash. Chaplain Thomas E. Hewitt, '35, 125th Infan­try. A.U.S., Gilroy, Calif. Chaplain John J- Harrington. '29. 51st Service Group. APO 629, c/o Postmaster, New York N. Y. 
Chaplain Patrick R. Duffy, '31. c/o Commander of Third Fleet, c/o Fleet Post Office. San Francis­co. Calif. 
Chaplain John T. HcGee. '36. 70 I.R.U.. Cana­dian Army. Overseas. Chaplain Francis D. Bridenstine. '33. Infantry Division. APO 7, Ford Ord, Calif. Chaplain Edmund J. Murray, '34, 104th Infan­try. 414th Res-. I.OS Angeles 52. Calif. Chaplain Norman J. Johnson. '28, Buckley Field, Denver. Colo. Chaplain James K Norton., '29, 3oth Group. 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing. Cherry Point. N. C. 
Chaplain John M. Dupuis. '31. 20th Marine Res.. H. & S.. 4th Division. W.C.E.. Camp Pten­dleton. Oceanside. Calif. 
Chaplain John T. Biger, ex. '33. Chaplain Service (R.C.), Trenton, Ont.. Canada. Chaplain Maurice J. Powers. '33, H. D. Beau­fort Inlet. Fort Macon. N. C. 
Chaplain Henry A. HeintskilU'SS. tT.S- Navy. (Censorship restrictions do not allow printing of address.) 
Chaplain Gerald M. Fitzgerald, Normoyle Ord. Motor Base, San Antonio, Texas. Chaplain Francis J. Boland. '18. 114th Bat-j talion. Lido Beach. N. Y. 
Chaplain E. Vincent Mooney. '16, Hdq. 9th Tank Gr.. 188 90PM, - c/o Pcstmaster, Ifls An-ge!es, Calif. 
Chrplcin Clement E. Kane, '31, Chaplains* School, Harvard University, Cambridge. Mass. 
In addition. Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, '11, former president of the University, is auxiliary bishop of the Army and Navy diocese and thus, while he is not actually in uniform, he is pri­marily concerned with the religious wel­fare of the Catholics in the armed forces. Rev. Harry Stegman, C.S.C, '32, is the bishop's secretary. 
By BAYMOND J. DONOVAN. '42 



ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
Bulletin: Coach Ed Krauie, '34, was sworn into the Navy as an ensign on Feb. 5 and will report on March 1 for training. 
Coach Ed (Moose) Krause, serving his 
first season as head basketball coach 
at Notre Dame after the death last Feb­
ruary of George Keogan, developed a 
group of inexperienced, enthusiastic 
players into a midseason aggregation 
that became one of the most feared 
teams in the Mid-West. 
Coach Krause started the season with only two returning veterans from the great squad of last year, and these two —Leo Klier, of Washington, Ind., and Capt. Bernie Rutledge, a guard, of Rose-dale, N. Y.—^between them had a total of only seven minutes playing time at Notre Dame. To supplement these two holdovers, Marko Todorovich, a Marine transfer from Washington University, St. Louis, developed into a topnotch center. 
Carl Loyd, of South Bend, the first freshman to hold down a regular bas­ketball berth at Notre Dame since the freshman rule came into existence, 
proved a real sparkplug to the Irish. 
Inserted as a regular forward in the 
fifth game of the season. Loyd sparked 
the Blue and Gold with his aggressive­
ness and accuracy until he was called 
into active duty with the Navy after the 
Valparaiso game. 
Johnny Lujack, quarterback on the 
1943 Irish football champions, developed 
rapidly as a guard. John Kelly, Utica, 
N. Y., star on last year's freshman team, was moved from guard to for­ward to supplant Loyd. 

Leo Klier, brother of Gene, guard on the squad during the 1938-40 seasons, is leading the team in scoring, followed by Todorovich. 
During the first 14 games of the sea­son, the Krause-coached machine fol­lowed a "win-a-game-lose-a-game" pat­tern .After smothering Alma College, 56-32, in the opener, the Irish dropped a 46-42 decision to a powerful Western Michigan squad and since then have, as this is written, won every odd g^ame played, while losing the even numbers. 
Highlights of the season at this writ­ing include a pair of wins, 47-40 and 35-32, over the high-flying Purdue Boil­ermakers. Other Notre Dame victories 
BEBTELU OUTSTANDING PLAYEB OF SEASON 
Morine Wc. Angelo Bertelli. left receives the Wedter Camp Trophy awaidecl on­nuaUy by the Touchdown Club of New York City. Wth the 1943 Notre Dame quorier­back at the club's annual dinner on Ian. 11 are. center. Ensign Dick Todd. Iowa Sea­hawkB fullback, with the Bob Smith Memorial Trophy for the top service player, and Casimir Myslinski. West Point center, with the Knute Bockne Memorial Trophy for the outstonding collegiate lineman. 
include a 41-31 win over a so-so Wiscon­sin five. The vast improvement in the Notre Dame team can be noted in the comparison of scores of two games with Northwestern played in the Chicago Stadium. The first contest, played Dec. 18, resulted in a 46-32 rout of the Irish by Otto Graham & Co., while the finale of a two-game series, on Jan. 21, found Coach Krause's charges holding the Wildcats on even terms until the final minutes of the game, when Northw.est­em pulled away to a 43-36 decision. 
Undoubtedly the best game of the season thus far came when a highly touted team from Valparaiso Univer­sity invaded the Notre Dame gym, fresh from a 65-57 win over Bay Meyer's whirlwind DePaul five. Averaging 6' 6" in height and composed of players boast­ing vast previous basketball experience, the Crusaders were heavy favorites to topple the Irish, but an aggressive, scrappy Notre Dame aggregation took play away from the Valpo squad and came out with a 57-44 win before a ca­pacity crowd of 4,200 fans in the Notre Dame gym. Carl Loyd led Irish scoring 
in his final game. 
Notre Dame lost to Marquette in Mil­waukee, 60-43, won from Bunker Hill Naval Training Station at Notre Dame, 65-55, then lost to Ray Meyer's ('38) great DePaul team in Chicago, 61-45. 
A tribute to the current team, plajring a top-flight schedule, is the fact that two of the defeats have been by a total of three points, including a 55-54 loss to the University of Kentucky and a 47­45 defeat in a return game with Wis­consin. 


TRACK ^ J;­

Undefeated.in college dual meet com­petition during, the past two seasons, the Irish tracfcteam could not hoje to continue their",^in streak during the current campaign. With "only t^vo letter­men back from last season. Coach E. R. (Doc) Handy was faced with the task of rebuilding his squad from green ma­terial. His hopes were further dashed wh«i 11 men withdrew from the squad early in the season, to devote more time to tiieir studies. 
The Irish squeezed out a win over Western Michigan, 62-51, at Notre Dame, but lost, 48% to 45%, to Mar­quette in Milwaukee. 
From last year's squad the lettermen 

available are Frank Martin, of Jamaica Estates, N. Y., who runs the mile and two mile, and Bob Purcell, of Floral Park, N. Y., a quarter miler. Both are expected to be consistent point winners. Purcell also runs in the mile relay. 
Ralph Pohland, Big Ten half-mile champion from Minnesota last year, who is now a Marine Reserve at Notre Dame, is available for duty, as is Gene Ander­son, a pole vaulter with e.\perience from Marquette. 'Another trainee on the squad, although he has no college ex­perience, is Len Scarpelli, a sprinter from Santa Clara. 
Among the new men, the most prom­ising is George Sullivan, East Walpole, Mass., a 17-year-old freshman, who was a standout tackle on the football team. Sullivan a shot-putter, never had a shot in his hand until he came to Notre Dame. 
In the dashes three men stand out: Tom Clifford, a Navy V-12 student from Gary, Ind., Brad Burnett, also a V-12 trainee, and Scarpelli. Purcell will run the quarter, and Pohland the half mile. Roland Hogue, V-12 trainee from Lin­ton, N. D., is expected ty! be the top man in the high jump. The mile relay team, always-a feature of the Irish track sea­son, is currently composed of Pohland, Purcell, and two newcomers, Hank Mur­phy, a civilian, and Bob Jones, a V-12er from Racine, Wis. 
• The remainder of the indoor track schedule follows: 
Feb. 19—^Notre Dame at Michigan. Feb. 26—Notre Dame, Illinois, Purdue at Illinois. Mar. 4—Open. Mar. 11—^Western Michigan. Marquette, Notre 
Dame, at Notre Dame. Mar. 18—Chicago Daily News Invitational, at 
Chicago. Mar. 24—K. of C. Invitational at New York. Har. 25—^Purdue Relays at Lafayette. 
ALUMNI BEUGIOUS BULLETIN (Continued from Page 2) repeated it to the pastor. That title reg­istered immediately with the pastor— and registered plenty. 

(b) Then, miracles came—and contin­ue to this day to astound and confound the intellectuals, agnostics and atheists of that day and this. 
This backgroimd helps you to under­stand the violent and persistent opposi­tion from the agnostic state officials, all interested in stamping out Catholicism and belief in the supernatural. 
The church officials, of course, also carefully scrutinized and examined Ber­nadette and the incidents, but for a dif­ferent purpose. 
The Catholic Church and its officials are cautious when any extraordinary. 

supernatural event is claimed. She is cautious to prevent superstition and to prevent the gullible from being misled; —also to prevent the charge of intellec­tuals—^"Those ignorant Catholics swal­low anything." You hear that charge even today. 
MIBACLES TODAY ­

Miracles started and continue to this day; miracles which confound the intel­lectuals of that day and of this. Mira­cles which are submitted to the rigid scrutiny of a Board of Medical. Exami­ners composed of men of all faiths, and of no faith. Miracles which this Board 
-declares to be beyond all possible na­tural causes, such as auto-suggestion, faith healing, etc., and, therefore, su­pernatural. 
But, then and today, some still scoff and say the cures are due exclusively to natural causes, that we don't know enough about medicine yet to explain them. They refuse to accept the evidence from fellow scientists (including Dr. Alexis Carrel, in his book, Man, the Unhnoicn), that certain of these cures are beyond all possible natural cause and, therefore, miracles. 
The modem intellectual, you see, dog­matically rules out all miracles as utter­ly impossible and also the Catholic dogma of infallibility as foolish and un­
^ reasonable. 
Our Lady of Lourdes just jioints to Lourdes even in this modem day and dramatically dares and deiies them to explain. 
LET THEM EXPLAIN 

Many of. your friends will be Ijrrically I-j^aiseful about the movie, but, if yon press them,, they will probably say '-mere imagination, though beautiful and inspiring of the girl." Ask them for their explanation of the miracles, then and now, and if they say again "imagination or auto-suggestion," secure for them a book or pamphlet on Lourdes. 
There probably will be many lectures by priests and laymen on Lourdes. The subject is fairly easy and is especially timely now. Invite any of your friends to any of these lectures. . 
"We shouldn't be afraid to "bring up religion" with our friends, given this timely opening by Our Lady herself. Many non - Catholics want religions truths these days and Our Lady, ever modem, has provided the opening. 
Franz Werfel and Hollywood have-done great honor to her by this book and movie. 
We, Sons, can't do less. 
TO JESUS THROUCa MABT. 
Lourdes is another 'example of the real spirit of Our Lady—the real spirit of Notre Dame, if you wish, enlogixed by the Holy Father in his Centomial Letter contained in the Deeonber, 1943, ALUMNUS. 
Her spirit is to live for her Son and to bring others to Him—^which is the epitome of Christian life. 
. You see her spirit at Lourdes. Origi­nally, the miracles were performed in the water which bubbled up miraculous­ly. AS the years passed, the place of the miracles has changed, so that now most of the miracles occur in the presoiee of the Blessed Sacrament, during the Ben­ediction Procession when the crippled are individually blessed. 
Once again we see Our Lady living for her Son—and bringing others to Him. 
Her real Sons of Notre Dame are those who have her spirit—not those who boast loudest of the football team or of their Alma Mater, but rather those who reflect her Son in thdr lives. 
BOOKS 
Many, at times, want modem popu­larly written books on Catholicism for thonselves or friends, — Catholic or uot 
File this list away for present or pos­sible future use. These books written by laymen are written especially for laymen— 

1.
 The Catholic Pattern by Thomas Woodlock, Wall Street Journal editori­al writer. It contains, in the first part, the rational proofs for Catholicism, and in the second part, the Catholic position on fundamental political, economic and moral problons. 

2.
 The Long Road Home by John Moody, financial writ^ and aaalja^ which is the story of his conversion, after floundering around in varions sects and philosophies. 

3.
 What Other Answer? by Dorothy Grant, niece of John Moody. She studied CathoUdsm to prove her uncle was "taken in" by Cfttholic propaganda. Not long after, she was 'asking to be takoi in. (Some wag has termed her book "cocktail apologetics.") 


4.
 Emancipation of a Free-Thinker • by Corejr, a university professor' who found solid and secure truth in the Catholic Faith throng his researchies in literature, philosophy and sdoide. Kecommehded especially 'for 'skqttinl intdlectuals. .,^:i-S'' 


^lJj!6!>!JMiiiiii6liilJJJJM!MlJJJ>UJMlJJ>UMU^^ 

eirxj 

The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts to the Unrestricted Funds of the University. These gifts have been received since the last report was made in the October, 1943, ALUMNUS. (Alumni gifts are acknowledged separately.) 
Anonymous (additional) $5,000.00 J. E. Flynn, Chicago $ 25.00 
J. M. Haggar, Dallas, Texas (additional) 3,500.00 Edward A. Golden, New York City. 25.00 
O. J. Caron, Rochelle, HI 2,000.00 Charles E. Hogan, Chicago 25.00 Edward F. Bessey, Chicago (additional) 1,500.00 Lewis F. Jacobson, Chicago 25.00 James B. McCahey, Chicago (additional) 1,000.00 Thomas Kelliher, Attleboro, Mass. (additional)- 25.00 Anonymous (additional) 1,000.00 M. S. McGum, Chicago (additional) 25.00 John J. O'Laughlin, Chicago 1,000.00 Franklin D. Schurz, South Bend 25.00 Anonymous (additional) 1,000.00 Arthur Strauss, Chicago 25.00 Mr. and Mrs. F. C. Solari, Pembrook, Mass 1,000.00 John P. Grace, Kokomo, Ind. 12.50 Warner Brothers Pictures, Inc., New York City 1,000.00 Albert A. Mulreany, Methuen, Mass 10.00 (Additional) Gail E. Rush, South Bend 10.00 James E. Coston, Chicago (additional) 500.00 J. L Schnitzer, Beverly Hills, Calif. , 10.00 Thomas Flannery, Chicago (additional) 500.00 J. E. Neff, South Bend 5.00 Anonymous (additional) 500.00 Charles E, Merrill, New York City. 40 Shares Stock 
Robert H. Rolfs, West Bend, Wis. (additional) 500.00 Edwin Silverman, Chicago 500.00 George P. Skouras, New York City-500.00 
To the E. M. Morris Foundation: William Veeneman, Louisville, Ky. (additional) 500.00 
E. M. Mori«s, '06, South Bend (additional) §10,000.00 
J. Bruce Allen, Chicago 300.00 
Hugh Dean, Farmington, Mich (War Bonds) 300.00 -V (Additional) 
For Dillon Hall Chapel: Charles C. Kerwin, Lake Forest, HI. (additional) 250.00 Robert A. Uihlein, Milwaukee, in memory of 
W. L. McFetridge, Chicago 200.00 Martin J. Gillen 5,000.00 Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Schuyler, Jr., CWcago 200.00 
(Additional) To the Student L^ian Fund: 150.00 
Anonymous (additional) Dr. Stanley A. Qark, South Bend (additional) 250.00 
150.00 

LaRue Smith, South Bend (War Bonds) 100.00 
Rt. Rev. Msgr. Allen J. Babcock, Detroit To the D. F. Kelly Student Loan Fund: 100.00 
Mrs. Matthew J. Carney, New Rochelle, N. Y. 
Mrs. Irene E. Kelly, La JoUa, Calif. 850.00 
100.00 

Harry D. Crooks, Chicago (additional) 100.00 
Louis J. Donohue, Chicago To the Hamilton Fund: 

100.00 

Robert J. Fischgrund, South Bend 100.00 
L. H. Hamilton Mrs. Vincent A. Gorman, Sr., Kingston, N. Y. 

Robert Hamilton, '34 (Additional) 100.00 James Hamilton, '35, Racine, Wis 2,500.00 
Harold B. Harvey, Chicago 

100.00 "^ (additional) 
Lt. Edward L. Kinn, Postoria, 111 100.00 

Edward L. Lalumier, Chicago (additional) To the Thomas J. McKeon Memorial Fund: 100.00 
E. Lowitz, New York City (additional) 
100.00 Anonymous (additional) 100.00 
Francis A. MacCauley, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
100.00 
Alexander Manta, Chicago 100.00 To the Nienwland Memorial Fund: Mr. and Mrs.'W. A. Middendorf, Covington, Ky. 

Anonymous—^In memory of Leo A. 
(Additional) 100.00 

Schneider, '28 (additional) 250.00 
Michael E. Murphy, Philadelpliia 100.00 
Leo J. Rasche, New York City. 
100.00 

To the Medieval Library Fund: John Pierre Roche, Chicago (additional) 100.00 
S. P. Skouras, New York City. Anonymous (additional) 1,000.00 
100.00 
Anonymous (additional) 

Thomas Taylor, Scranton, Pa. (additional) 100.00 
To the President's Fund: Albert Warner, New York City. 100.00 
Anonymous 50.00 
H. M. Warner, Burbank, Calif. 100.00 George Williamson, Chicago 100.00 
For the Maintenance of the Grotto on the Campus: 
Mrs. Mary Bender, Cincinnati 50.00 Joseph Bemhard, New York City. 50.00 Phil J. Purcell, Salt Lake City. 250.00 Anonymous (additional) 50.00 John L. Hennessy, New York City (additional).. 50.00 Manuel Smerling, Chicago 50.00 Nathan Goldstein, Chicago 35.00 
^ 

P. J. Dee, Chicago 25.00 
President of the University. 

z^'ff'wmvivJ'rriTmrrmTmmM^jv^^ 



Second Annual Alumni Fund 
Contributions, Nov. 17, 1943, to Jan. 31, 1944. inc. 
(These unsolicited contributions are credited to the Second Annual Alumni Fond, to which additional contributions may be made any time during the year 1944. As in the Centenary Fbnd. the alumni contri­butions represent alumni gifts direct to the University, through the Alumni Association, or through the Director of Public Relations!) 
1893 to 1904 O'Brien, G. L. (deceased)'93_$1.000.00 Davis, Frank W., '95 2.00 Dorley, Anthony F., '00 5.00 Mitchell. Qeraent C '02 500.00 $1,507.00  1924 Brown, Dr. Harvey F.— Buell,' D. Patrick Foley, Lester W. Lindemann, Edward G._ Rickard, Vernon E  ..$__  25.00  500.00  333.00 5.00 10.00  1935 Bembrock, WiUiam F _ ~tHamilton, James -Kaofinan, James A -Rowan. Ensign Edward J _Wcinmann. Capt. F. G., Jr _  2.00  833.33 25.00  6.00  5.00  Garvey, Ensign John J GUbert. L t John W Hickey. William M Hunt, Eugene F. , Lewis, John ^. UcKay. Lt. Bernard C McNerthney, Sgt. Joseph  B _  5.00 10.00 10.00 2.00 3.00 2.00 1.00  
1905 to 1909 $ 250.00 Grabcr, Earl F., 'OS-Morris. E. M.. '06 (Add.)__ 10,000.00 E. M. Morris Foundation Moran, Major J. Bell, '07 500.00 • Daschbach, Ray J., '08 25.00 Carville, Hon. Ed. P., '09 — 7.50 Walker, Hon. Frank C , '09_ 1,000.00 511,782.50 1910 Moriarty, Rev. Michael L—$ 10.00 Schmitt, William C. 1,300.00 $1,310.00  1925 Downard, Thomas I*. McSorley, Franklin — Rodighero. Rudolph G— Traynor, John P 1926 Dusgan, Edward L.. Ryan, Capt. John J.­1927  $ 873.00 _$ 5.00 _ 100.00 3.00 5.00 $ 113.00 -S 50.00 25.00 5 75.00  $ 870.33 1936 Tetrault, Ensign Vernon A_ | 2.00 2.00 1937 Bondi, Philip R 5.00 Feeley, George R*. BO.OO Gast, L t Frederick C_ 30.00 Hartnett Ensign Vincent W. 25.00 McAuliffe, Ensign John H_J 2.00 Mcintosh, Joseph K. 10.00 $ 122.00  HcNnlty, Ensign James F Horphy, Ensign Paul Y Kelson, Ensign Charles F— O'Brien, Ensign James J.—— O'Laughlin. Lt. James P. Pahner,'BiroH, J. P Reilly, Pvt. John A Scanlon, Pvt. William E Scbroer, Gerhard J Sullivan, Hiss Nora R. (Summer School) • Supplitt. Ensign George ] Tnrgeon, Pf c Leo V Yavorsky, A/G John G _  10.00 25.00 6.00 10.00 10.00 6.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 10.00  
1911 Dodge, Harry D — Lawton, Jasper H... 1912 Murphy, John P.­1913  _ S 2.00 _ • 102.00 $ 104.00 _ $ 500.00 $ 500.00  Brennan, John W.. Sleigh, Andrew, F— 1928 Antus, John J Buckley, Louis F. Kelley, George H — Morrissey, J«7!eph S - -S 10.00 10.00 $ 20.00 _S 5.00 5.00 „ • 5.00 10.00  1938 Bohen, Lt. Thomas I-. -$Callahan, Ffc. Charles H Callahan, Major Joseph A — Ryan, Sgt. Daniel F. ^ Scott Major John A. Skoglund, Leonard H., Jr.— Zoss, Abraham O.   5.00 l.OO 5.00 6.00 10.00 150.00 5.00  1943 - Gemens. William M Ddaney, Francis J Ebner. Pv t Francis G-— Farwell, Sg t Joseph J*. Godfrey, Pv t James E _ Godfrey. Pv t Hidiael F. Heltzd. Ensign Donald T  I-t  140.00  20.00 2.00 5.00 6.00 6.00 600 6.00  
Fitzpatrick, Kecne P ­Sage, Fred L. 1914 Hayes, Francis H«.  „ $ 25.00 _ 50.00­,5 75.00 _ $ 200.00  1929 Lyons, Dr. Edward J.. McDevitt. Lt. Harley  $ 25.00 $ 29.00  1939 Dreiling, Cpl. Virgil T_ Dunn, James H-. Fricke. Cpl. Carl H. McDermott L t Edward G  $ 181.00 -$ 5.00 6.80. 10.00 30.00  Hillis, Walter G '. Hun t Pv t John D McVay. Ensign JamesPfeiffer. A/ C Paul ESmith. L t Richard H   F » :  6.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 * 62.00  
1915 Beczkiewicz, Peter Hudson, Calvin G._  $ 200.00 _$ 25.00 _ 15.00  1930 Fletcher, BernardHasley, Louis I*Anonymous —. - D ­ „.  _.$_„  5.00  5.00  25.00  Pick. Robert B Sadowski, L t Chester P Sullivan, John D. Sullivan, L t John P  10.00 10.00. 4.00 1.00  1944 Malone, James J. -Toole, Theodore T..  2.0O 2.00  
1916 Carroll,  Hugh  E.­ $ 40.00 _$ 25.00  Langford, Walter Mc C Medland, Thomas G  _ 50.00 _ 5.00 $ 90.00  1940 Cenni, L t  Louis  J-.  t .76.80 _ $ 5.00  1946 Kopf, Pv t  Milo  4.0O 1.00  
1917 Cassidy, John E — Maher, Thomas F_ 1919 O'Connor, Earl T— Suttner, Joseph M.­ $ 25.00 ._$ 200.00 5.00 $ 205.00 _$ 500.00 . 5.00 $ 505.00  1931 Reising, "Warner A.. _ $ 5.00 $ 5.00 1932 Brennan, Rev. Vincent P.­..$ 50.00 Connelly, Eugene T 5.00 Hallinan, Chaplain Paul J.­25.00 Reilly, Ensign Francis H... 10.00 Ruffing, Cornelius J.. 25.00  Dell. Cpl. Charles E Doyle. L t Vincent A Gruenfelder. Marcus A.. Imholz. Berchman J.—. Leader, Henry G-. McCanna, L t Charles B» Miltner, Francis H, — Rodibaugh, Lt. Robert K. Whitford, Joseph C  ____ 10.00 5.00  10.00 6.00  5.00  100.00 2.00 5;oo  25.00  $ 1.00 1947 Lynch. John F. _ -$ 2.00. * 2.00 Subscribers Detroit Citizen's Group _:^ f 1,000.00 (Through Howard Beechi­­nor. '06. and C. M. Ver­ 
1920 Balfe, John T. Beacom, Thomas H.1921 Easley, Donald J.­Foley, Harold S._. 1923   Jr._  50.00 _ 100.00 t 150.00 _$ 25.00 _ 333.00 $ 358.00  1933 Foley, Milton J Kiely, L t John B.­Ryan, Philip J 1934 Hamilton, Robert L .  $ 115.00 ..$ 334.00 5.00 5.00 $ 344.00 -$ 833.33  1941 t 172.00 Fowler, Capt Frederic E. .$ 2.00 Anonymous . 5,000.00 MacKenzie. Pv t Louis A. 10.00 Maher, Joseph G. 5.00 McCanna. Pfc. Philip B. 100.00 Riegel, L t Louis F., Jr.. 10.00 . Scully, 1st L t J. Paul, Jr _ 4.00 Tlusty, Cyrn J 2.00  biest '20) Hamilton. U H(Father, Robert andJames. Hamilton) Lloyd. Frank W. McHenry. Joseph Reynolds, .Mrs. J. Schmitt Herman.A..  ­ ^ 833.34 50.00 . ioo 6.00 25.00 $1,915.34.  
Anonymous Shea. William E_.. Walsh, Thomas A_  -$  100.00 10.00 2.00  Morrison James R Sheridan, William J., Jr._ Walsh, WiUiam J., Jr  10.00 5.00 2.00  1942 Connors, Gpl. Donald  F _  15.133.003.00'   ..IVital Previously  acknowledged -$28,004.30  '6.989.26  
$ 112.00  $ 850.33  Garro,  Samuel  J  5.00  Total  to  date  ___L»S5,08a551  

« «




ALUMNI CLUBS 
AKRON 
Walter P. McCourt, '16, 424 Greenwood Ave., Pres.; Gerald H. Klein, '32, 832 Diaconal Road, Sec. 
A newspaper clippini; from 'way tack says that the club was planninp a Christmas dance for Dec 29 in the Mayflower Hotel. Akron, with Joe Kraker as chairm^n, The club runner hasn't got in yet with late details. 

CHICAGO 
Willian P. Kcmrney, '28. 519 Cedar St, Winnetka, IlL, Pres.; Thomas S. AfcCabe. *22, 1448 Rftsdier Ave., Sec 
The annual Communion-breakfast of the club was held Dec 5. TTie Mass was said by Father John J. CavanaaEh, C.S.C. vice-president of the University in Old St Mary's Church. The break­fast was at the Blackstone Hotel, -where 60 as­sembled. 
Father West, pastor of S t Mary's, attended the breakfast and spoke of his high regard for the University. Father CavanauRh conducted a most interesting session, in question and an­swer form, regarding the "war conditions at the University and its post-war program as present­ly contemplated. John Montague -was chairman of the affair. 

Recent alumni visitors in Chicago were Post­master General Frank Walker. Gerald *'Etd" Adie, Capt Ensene Kennedy of the U.S. Army, and Dan Calhanct program director with the 
U.S.O. in Washington, D. O. Tom McCake 
dEVBAND 
JAn J. Beidr, '27. 1204 Guardian Bldr. Pres.; Jon Bdjon, '30, 11805 Cromwdl Ave., Sec 

The Annual Lay Retreat will be held at St Stanislaus Novitiate starting Feb. 25. Karl Mar­terstetiE is in charge. Universal Communion Sun­day brought many responses and changes of ad­dress. Four Clevelanders were in the latest N.D. graduating class. They were John Joseph Bey­etle, Jalin Thomas Doyle, William Cleve Mnlli­ran, and Daniel Jerome Tomcik. 
JA, Charies F. Daly, whose address is Merced Army Air Field, Merced, Calif-, requests Bob Mazanec's and Al BnUePs address. So, Bob and Al. drop him a line. John P. Butler is now with the law firm of Squires, Sanders and Donpsey. . . . Stan Cafall was appointed head of the boxing commission by Mayor Lausche. succeeding Tris Speaker. . . . Chile Walah has been named executive head of the Cleveland Rams football club- . . . Cec Robert was mar­ried on Jan. 8 to Jean Rath at Holy Cross Chnrch. Cec is now at Camp Stuart Ga. Father Ed SewardVs new address is Chaplain (Major) Edward Seward, 0-442734. Hq. 2nd Bombard­ment Div., APO 634. c/o P3I., N-Y.C. Drop him a line. . . . Val Deale, club treasurer last year, spent a short leave in Cleveland. Stopped at N.D., too, on the way back to Navy Language School. 
U. of Colorado, Boulder. 
Ed Carer had a tough siege with the flu but pulled throu^ O.K. . . . Tom (Telephone) Byrne received a-letter from Badcy Dahman who's still in the, Mediterranean area with the Navy. .. . Gcsrse Lcppif** mother heard that George re­turned to his base unscathed after the Tarawa battle. . . . Gene Ling is still in Brentwood. Calif., with Fox films and two kids. .. . Seen at the Fiesta Room with Councilman Al Grisand was Capt Blike Crawford, home on leave before being shipped to parts unknown. . . . Ju l "Bed'* Callahan is now an instructor in gunnery and tanks at Fort Knox. . . . 
L t Jack Collins was married last month to Betty Kelly of Washington. Art Becvar was home for a few days from Fort Wayne where he is a naval ordnance inspector (civilian). Gtnt Kane was home on furlough from Maxwell Field. Ala., where he finished pre-flight training. Bbd lost about 20 pounds and looked great Said Ensign Fred Payne is in Washington temporarily. Bud Meter was home for two days at Christmas. 
Joe Heimann sx>ent the holidays at home with his family. . . . Tom MnlUgan. a lieutenant (is), is still in the South Pacific running a LCI boat Sees Bob Hackman and Charley Ifae­alaso occasionally, but says the latter is now in Australia. . . . Joe (P.J. Jr.) MolUgan is an en­sign in the Supply Department, stationed some­where in New Jersey. . . . Another ensign in the Mulligan family is Gene, stationed on a carrier somewhere in the South Pacific • . . Tony La­vclle was inducted recently and is now a sea­man. 2nd class, in the Seabees. His address: Platoon 3082, Camp Curry, Va. . . . Tom Confer* his face all set for a fullback, became the &ther of another majorette recently. 
Afajor Frank Celebrezze was returned to in-^ active duty after a recent physical examination and is back at the Safety Director's desk. . . . Lt. Frank Gaol, stationed at Norfolk, was in Cleveland with his family for the holidays. .. . Judge Carberry, formerly of Cleveland and more recently of Hollywood, is now in training with Gene Tunney's outfit at B^nbridge, Md. . . . Lieut Jerry Reidy stopped off before Christmas enroute from Chanute Field to some new loca­tion. John Venables is a lieutenant in Army Ordnance. Address: Chicago Athletic Club. 
Bob Coleman writes from North Africa. Sa^s that after four and a half months -without mail, ­he hit for 98 letters, including two of ours. Was glad to hear about Ned Weinfortner and Bill Kcyes. Write him: No. 35524178, 182 Prov. M.P.­
F.W. Det APO 600, P.W. Camp No. 128, c/o P.M.. N.y.C. 
L t Cmdr. Roscoe Kennedy writes from the Pacific area. Says he has been overseas 16 naonths and is chief of surgery in an English-q^eaking country where the hospitality to Americans is imlimited. Write him. Norm Bringman writes from Co. "D" 53rd Q.M. TRK. Bn, APO 464. cjo P.M.. N.Y.C. Is now celebrating his first year overseas. Says nothing much happened ex­cept that while in the Sicilian invasion he was wounded "once in the neck and the other through the shoulder. However, nothing serious." Says "hello" to Jim Dabbs with whom he was in­ducted. Tom Flynn, in the Army Intelligence, Itas been transferred to Baltimore. Recently married Frances Perkins of Georgia whom he met In Washington, D. C. 
Bill O^eman is an ensign in diarge of all salvage in the Fifth Naval District. Norfolk. Va. Dr. Bill Fkirence has heen with the Dental 0)rps, U.S. Navy, for the past 19 months. His address: Lt William O. Florence, D.C USNB Station Hospital. Camp Peary, Va. Jack Flynn writes in reporting a change of address: Maj. Jc^n R. Flynn. Provost Marshal. Lowry Field. Denver, Colo. Says he heard the Army and Northwestern games with the Denver Club; that George Belting is at S t Thomas Seminary en­joying excellent health; saw Dan Sammon's brother at Lowry Field. Drop Jack a note. Ed Reidy of Lorain, a Marine first lieutenant air pilot, married En^gn Geraldine Boededcer at Cherry Point, N. C, last month. 
Jon Beljon 
Since a club Communion-breakfast was im­practicable at the time, the Cleveland organiza­tion asked its members to join with Notre Dame clubs generally by receiving Communion in their parish churches on Sunday, Dec 5, for the in­tentions of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. At least 65, according to returned cards, responded, and many other members, it was felt, also responded but did not return cards. 



DENVER 
Ewene S. BUA, 'U, 1S4R Oneida St, Piei.: Jalin F. Connell, '2}. 2545 Cbeirr St.. Sec 
Lt. Jack Akolt is with the AAP in Tampn. Fla. Last we heard. Don Alexander was still at Peterson Field. CpL Leon "Ardi" Ardier fur­longhed in Denver, then returned to his Linic Trainer post at Reno's AAB. 

. . . lat Lt. Tom Barry, USHC, has seen lots of action in the South Pacific area. Maj. Chnck Caasidr is really blasting away at the Nazis in Italy where he is squadron commander of his dive bomber group. ­
. . . From the Mediterranean Area this month. came our regular comic-picture card from Ensirn Geary Connor. Lt. Frank Conway is stationed in Chicago. A/C Chnck Crapo is at the U.S. Naval Air Station. Livermore, Calif. 
.. . At the AAB in Pueblo is Lt. Tommy Cnr­rican. A/C Bob Dee flies with the AAF at Lan­caster.^ Calif.; and across the continent — an hour from Times Square — with the Sea-bees is brother Bid Dee, USN 2/c. L t CoL Henry J. Dinon and his hospital unit have shipped — des­tination unknown — good luck, Henry. Castle Bock's Pat Dillon is aboard one of the Na\i's biggest battle-wagons. 
. . . Welcome news from a Denver-N.D.er whom we haven't seen for a long time — Ray Dayle. '27. Ray landed at French Morocco and fought his way across to Bizerte; he was in Sicily when he wrote. Told us that he met other N.D.ers poring over an issue of the "Alumnus.^' Off duty, Ray has been playing the pipe organ at the local Cathedral. Lt. (j.g.) Joe Dnnn from Rocky Ford last checked in from Los Alamitos. Calif., Naval Air Base. 
. . . USMCs Lt. Herb FairaU married recently 

— and after duty in Hawaii and North Carolina says it's pretty good to be in California, with his eye on Colorado. Bok Flynn, at Keesler Field. Miss., has just finished his last classification test for the AAF. L t Art Grecory (Canon City) was at Mill Military Reservation. Va., when he wrote last time. Durango's Jerry H*can is a navigator at San Marcos, Texas. 
. . . Lt. Harry Lawrence is at Camp Custer's Provost Marshal school. BUI Mmhonejr is with the Army Ennineers at Camp Abbott, Ore. Lt^ Ed Mansfield is in "the horse. Iwurbon. and tweedy clothes country" at the Signal Corp's Supply Depot. Le.xington. Ky. Comes word now that John McEniry is with the USN's radio men cur­rently stationed at Fort Worth. Texas. Jim Mon­aRhan is in the Medical Corps at Camp Grant. 
III. And. Paratrooper Ed Nngent writes from Fort Benning that he'll have his wings this month (December): Lt. Joe Nigro is still at Camp Ritchie, according to local chatter. 
.. . Ensign Ed Owens is at the University of Colo­rado. Capf. Dan Pflanm is on a new assignment with the Corps of Engineers in New Yoric City. After almost two years in the Caribbean area, Capt. Bud Pogliano is back in the States: cur­rently on maneuvers at Camp Davis, N. C. Jack Ryan has been transferred to the MP's at Fort Mason in San Francisco. Capt. Joe Kyan last gave us the high-sign from Roswell AFS, New Me.xico. Ross Sabo sends his regards to all you fellows from his b.ise at Stuttgart. Ark. 
. . . SySgt Paul Santo has been at Lowry. Sgt. Fred Sisk is in Chicago. From down South Ameri­can way. USN's Ray Smith says it's too hot for football down there now, but even at that a word or two le,iked through about N.D.'s 1943 football­ers. Haven't heard from Ensign Bob Stapp since he was at Pasco. Wash. 
. . . From "somewhere in the Aleutians." Sgt. Joe Stephen popped with a corking good letter: reports good hunting, good soui-enirs, and good victories. Aside from Tom Carty, '41, somewhere near him. Joe hasn't met any other N.D.ers- Lt. Tom Tiemey, according to reports, is at Tulla­homa. Tenn. USMC's Sgt. Johnny Walsh has re­turned again to combat zones in the South Pacific. Newcomers to Denver's N.D. men-in-service is Chicago's Frank Widger, '34. whose family is now making their home in Denver. Frank's N.D. room­mate, Wally Miller, '34, has been at Camp Roberts, Calif.: Frank is at Fort Ord. Calif. Leo Robidoux has been transferred to the Los Angeles district office of Cutler-Hammer; nice going, Leo! 
N.D.ers in Denver . . . New Jersey's Frank Bailey graduated from aerial photography at Low­ry and is now an air cadet at Buckley Field. Cleveland's George Belting is at St. Thomas Sem­inary with N.D.'s George Evans and Chicago's John Deane, ex-Holy Cross seminarian. N.D.'S Lt. Bemish. now at Lowry, was recently married in Denver. Philadelphia's Bob Corrigan, '43. and In­dianapolis' Jim Fiaher are at Lowry. Ensign Val Deale of Cleveland is at CITs naval school. Cleve­land's Major John Flynn, '23, is provost marshal at Lowry Field. Father Norman Johnson, C.S.C, is chaplain at Buckley. Tulsa's Bob Mannis, '45, is at Lowry. Capt H. J. HcEUigott. '26, is on Buckley Field's hospital staff. USN's A] Soden, '24, is at Colorado U. Just heard from Bart O'Hara that John Stack, '41. is in Denver with one of the commercial airlines. Elmer Wynne, Rock's full­back in the late *20's, has recently moved his offices to Denver. 
Gene Blish 


DETROIT 
Henrr J. CUric. '30, 220 East Merrill St.. Birminciuini, Hich., Pres.; Georce B. Mor­ris, '39, 610 BUine Are.* Detroit, Sec 
On Dec 5 the club held its Universal Com­munion-breakfast in conjunction ^ith the inten­tions of the national association. About 160 were present. 
Rev. Cliarie* E. CoacUin again acted as our host and put the entire facilities of the Shrine of the Little Flower at our disposal, for which we are exceedingly grateful. Father CoughUn's ad­dresses, both at the Mass and breakfast, asked the alumni of the entire country to realize their part as leaders of Christianity. Father Coughlin pointed out the need for financial help at the University. 

A special effort was made to bring out all of the parents of the men in service. As a result we had about 12 boys represented by their par­ents and wives. 
Henry Clark 

Henry Clark was elected president of the club at the annual meeting on Jan. 19. Korman Fred­ericks is the new vice-president; Georce B. M»r­ris, Jr., secretary; and Loo Normao* treasurer. 
New trustees of the club are Henry Clark, L* 

W. Fury, Harry B. Stillman, John W. Brennan, and Xorman Fredericks. 

GOGEBIC RANGE 
Joi«h G. Raineri, Jr., ex. '31, IM7 Scnsd Ave.. N., Hadey, Wis., Prea.; Eagcne R. Zbim, '39, I05-C Brogan Bide-, Ironwood. Hldk. Sec 

Lt. (jg) Joe Raineri, ex. '31, is now in train­ing on the East Coast. He received his call a couple of months aga 
Ray Ebli, '42, left on Jan. 12, for training at Abbott Hall. Northwestern University. Up to the time of his departure he had been coaching at St. Ambrose High in Ironwood. His team won the Little Six conference championship In foot­ball, and was doing all right for itself in bas­ketball. 
G. W. (Doe) HarriMn, '33, completed his Hed course in 1940. He is now in North Africa. 
Robert O'Donnell, ex. '29, is back in England again after completing his officer's training in this country a1x>ut four months ago. He's an AMGOT lieutenant now. 
It's another boy at the Taa McKeritt home in Washington, D. C 
E4Ac Siamkh, '39, is still coaching, hot V-K men, in Carroll College. Helena. Kont. 
Last reports had N.D. men "taldn^ over" Houghton Comity in the U.P. with Vaira, '35, as county clerk, acd Stere C« '39, as prosecuting attorney. 
Eagene • . Ziaa 


MINNESOTA 
duties J. Halhaaw, ex. '25. 179 Irri^ ATVL. N.. MhiiM^»»lis, Pica.; Wahcr D. Hal» "SS. Sit W. 4«th St- BOueapalia, Sec 
TTie club met on Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday, according to a letter from Walt Hall. 
"We had a nice gathering, considering the club is now. made up of old men and 4-Fers; also the fln bug laid sfHne of the members.** Walt said. ''Dake Hsdkr. being in Hmneapolis on business with the Kaiser Shipbuilding Com­pany, was in attendance and related many in­teresting experiences." 

NPMT yoRK dry 
GMige H. Kahn. •» , C»T Spewar Am . KiTtidak. N. T.. Fres.; Jaaei H. Cam!, ex. 11. Haiti Capital. 84* Eighth Arc. Sec 
Only by welcoming active participation of the Holy Father in the drafting of a world peace program can the blunders of the Versailles Con­ference be avoided, said John B. Kennedy, noted radio news analyst, in an address at the Uni­veisal Notre Dame Communion-breakfast Dee. 5 at the New York Athletic CInb. 
Almost a hundred members of the New York Club and friends received at the Commnnian Mass, celebrated by BUep Jehn F. (THna. 

FATHER O'DONNELL IN ONCINNAn 
Ber. J. Hugh CDonnall. CJS.C. prasidaot ai fhm Vmrmaitr. is a—a i«cw*iB9 a Sift oi Bookwood bookenda aa a manwiite oi his visit to Gneiiinati from FJrcmk Broomaa. retiring president oi iho Notro Damo CInb of Graotor.Ciacianati. at a laaehooB giraa in Father CDonnell's honor in the Presidential Soil* oi tho Hotel Gibson, on Jan. 2S. 
Looking on. left to righL ore: Frank H. Swaeney. aecratarr and treaanror. and Andrew P. Barton, acting pceaident ol the dob. 
Father O'Donnell told a group oi Notre Dame graducrtes how the IKuveisity is operating under war conditions. On Jan. 2S he spoke befoco the MedieTalisis ol the Hotel Alms. Cincinnati. 
C.S.C., at Lady Chapel, St. Patrick's Cathedral. Presiding at the breakfast was George H. Kohrs» president of the Notre Dame Qub of New York-John A. Hoyt, Jr. was toastmaster. 
Specific instances of spiritual benefits which might be traced to the practice of group Com­munions were cited by Bishop O'Hara who took the breakfast guests on a rapid tour of the past five years. Going from climates of stinging cold to blistering heat, the Bishop, who has the earth as his bishopric, made brief stops at New York, Notre Dame, and Lima. Peru, and many far-flung way stations. Notre Dame men are spread as wide as the Church, he said, and everywhere they demonstrate the spirit of Notre Dame-
Rev. Thomas Reardon, Marine Corps chaplain cited for the devotion and the bravery of his war sennce, gave a graphic picture of conditions on Guadalcanal where he was stationed from August to December, 1942. 
Jim Carroll 


ST. JOSEPH VALLEy 
Walter M. L&neford, *30, 1245 Diamond A^-e., South Bend. Ind., Prcs.; Richard C Ksczmarek, *40» 317 Napoleon Blvd., South Bend, Ind., Se c 
The club joined with other clubs on Dec. 5 to obser\*e Universal Notre Dame Communion Sun­day. Local members were asked to assist at the 9 o'clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church on the campus in conjunction with the Notre Dame ad­ministration, faculty' and students. 
The club, on Jan. 5, sponsored the 24th annual civic testimonial banquet to the 1943 Notre Dame football team and its coaches. Details of the ban­quet will be found elsewhere in this issue. 


ST. LOUIS 
Roland N. Dames. *33, 3154 Locust, Pres.; Loaia C. Fchlis, *33, 7571 Budungbam Dr., Sec 

Creichton Miller, All-American halfback of the 1943 team, was in St. Louis on Dec 16 to pre­sent to the East St. Louis High School the Knute Rockne trophy, given annually by the club to the outstanding high school football team in the local area. 
The presentation was made at a banquet in the University Club, St. Louis, attended by 200 per­sons. One of them was Bob' Wilkc, *37, former star halfback, now a resident of St. Louis. Creighton Miller showed and commented upon the pictures of the Northwestem-N.D. 1943 game, which he had brought with him. . " ^ ­
The club thus closed a year that was "strong" despite necessary wartime restrictions due to loss of personnel, et c New officers of the club are Roland N. Dames, president; Jerome C. Arnold, vice-president: Richard J. Klohr, Jr., treasurer: and Loais C. Fehlig, secretary*. Directors are John L. Corley, Joseph B. BIcGIj-nn, ^Richard C* Madcerman. Robert T. HeUrung, Dr. Bcrtrand Daniel Couchlin, Albert J. Ra^-arino, Dr. L. Vin­cent Gorrilla, Dr. HaUiew W. Weis, Ed Gricsc­diedE, Jr>, V. H. Wrape, Dr. Francis L. Kennedy* and Fred C. Weber. Jr. 
WBTERN PENNSyLVANIA 
Dr. Lee D. O'DomieU, '17, 704 Maryland AT C Pittabvgfa, Pres.; Wm. H. H. Ginder, Jr., IICC Hanunciide Ave., Pittsbursh, Sec 

The old Western Pennsylvania Club ain't what she used to be with more and more mem­bers donning uniforms, which seem to cloak their whereabouts and actl\'ities with an aura of invisibility. There just isn't much news these days. 
With the recent election of Hugh C. BojU, '24, to judge of the Orphans Court, Notre Dame can now boast of three local judges. James L. O'Toole, '21, and John J. Kennedy. '09, presde in Common Fleas Orart. 
Jack Montererde, *38, was awarded the Pur­ple Heart with a Silver Star citation for pull­ing some men from a burning tank in Italy. 
Lt. Ed Cosffro%'e, '34, is now stationed at Great Lakes Naval Training Station. Joe Hooney, '30, former Pittsburgher, just completed his basic naval training and should now be addressed as lieutenant. 
Bill Ginder 



SOUTH PACIFIC 
From Lt. Pat Fisher. Hq., IV Island Command, 
APO 70S, c/o P.M., S.F.. comes this inspiring 

letter regarding a Notre Dame meeting far away: 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was obser\'ed in the South Pacific at APO 708 by seven of us. After Mass and Holy Communion we had a delightful breakfast for which host George Thomas had managed to procure a quan­tity of frei'h eggs. Fresh eggs, in case you didn't know, are just about worth their weight in gold out here.* 
After breakfast we talked about the "old days" and passed around all of the clippings we had. Fortunately I had my copy of the "Alumnus," which will be passed around to everyone as soon as possible. If it had come a week later it would have leen too late to remind me of this annual event and there would have been no obser\'ance here. All of the chaplains on the island gave George and me every cooperation in getting the boys lined up. Since there were no clippings of 
* An interesting sidelight on the egg situation out here is in a group of six enterprising officers who share ownership in a hen. Each day for 12 "* days they will take her one egg and put it away under lock and key. When the 12th egg has been collected they splurge with a big breakfast at which each of the owners has two fried eggs. 
the Great Lakes game among those passed around, you may be sure that the affair was a complete success. 

Those who attended were MaHc J. Falgoost, , '27. Jerome J. HeindU ex. *41, Francis N. John­son, ex. '33, Robert P. Joseph, '39. Jack Joyce, 
e.x. '36. George Thomas, '36, and Pat Fisher, '35. 
Others out here who were unable to attend be­cause of their duties are Thomas DtUon, '42, Gerard J. Garry, ex. '36, Lt. Cmdr. Kemper, ex. '25, Robert Kenney, '42, J. J- Kerwin, ex. '2G, Thomas Logan, '43, Bill McDermott, '37, Lt. Santos* '41, and Lt. Cmdr. Jim Crowley, '25. 
Some of those who have been transferred are Bob Cahill, Jerry Sexton, Lt. HcGee, John Beard, and Fred Stnbbins. 
Keep the Faith. 
The following letter on Dec. 9 from Lt. (jg) Vince Hartnett, '37. Box 103, Na\-y 128. Fleet P.O., San Francisco, gives added and admirable proof of a great deal of the right "old spirit": 
You would be somewhat amazed, rs well as delighted, to see how many Notre Dame men are out here in the Pacific on service. My motto now is: "A Notre Dnme man everj-where I go." I don't recall being on a single station so far out here, and I've teen in the South Pacific for a year and a half, where I've failed to meet an alumnus. I met Capt. Jim Donoghns. USMCR, class of '40, three times: first when we were aboard the same transport coming out here from the States, next time at one base, and the third time at still another base. Jim gave a mighty fine account of himself on Guadal. of course. 
The first year and a half out here I spent on Comsopac's staff, where there were a number of 
N.D. men around. In fact, about four or five months ago we started a little "Notre Dame Club of the South Pacific." We want you to know-that this was the original and genuine one, started before Jim Crowley started promoting his! 

CORPUS CHBISn GROUP MEETS 
This group o! altunm. represenliiig amrwicm p«noim*l and loccd civilians, met in Corpus Christie Texas, on Friday night Oct 29, the night before the Novy-NJ). game in Cleveland. John McManmon, Herbert Bnrt Bob Rohrbach ond Joe Clark were the committee in charge. ''We all hod a good time," said Lt. McManmon in sending the picture to the Alumni Office. 
Lt. (jfT) Bill Webster, 'SI, Ensifim Jchn M. island. It was always great to rekindle the old SalUvan, '37, Lt. <j«) Daniel F. Sallows* '40, feUowships in this way. EnsiRn Phil G. Hoene, %*]8, Lt. (JE) John N. Meaney* *40, and myself were charter members. Lt. Cmdr. Jim Crowley, summoned both the We elected Sully president- Dan {"Sad-sack") 
Notre Dame men and the Fordham men to coun­Sallows was vice-president. Meaney occupied the 
cil about Hvc or six weeks ago. I know you must utterly desultory position of treasurer, bavin? 
have heard of this. Jim is e-xtremely popular . around these parts, and deservedly so. We had arefused {in the face of having notably edited very pleasant evening together, and it was a"Scrip" to be secretary. 

pleasure to meet N.D. men from other services, Well. Jim, we carried on with occasional meet­such as Capt. Bob Blake, USMCR. who was pass­ings for about three months, and no doubt the ing through. The old N.D. spirit is very high group will keep on for the duration, or as long out here. All the N.D. men I've met have truth­as there are any N.D. men around at this 'un­fully given a grand account of themselves, and mentionable spot. One notable meeting was held the Lady on the Golden Dome must he proud of at a restaurant situated in a farmhouse a good them. ways out in the country on our island-I know it was one of the high-lights of my stay on that Our plane has just landed, so will stop now. 
FOR GOD, COUNTRY. NOTRE DAME 
IN GLORY EVERLASTING 
Lt. Cmdr. Well. Worth Carroll, eX. '16, Manhasset, N. Y., died on Nov. 24 as the result of injuries which he suf­fered when the U.S.S. Lisome Bay, plane carrier, was torpedoed off Makin Island. 
Although critically wounded himself. Commander Carrol l assisted other wounded on the ship until he himself was forced by enlisted'men to leave it. Later a doctor, swimming from one wounded man to another to render first aid, endeavored to save the officer's life but he had lost too much blood. 
Commander Carroll participated also in World War L In World War II he had served in the office of the naval advisor to the WPB until, at his own insistence, he was placed on active duty. He is sur­vived by his wife, by a son, 2nd. Lt. Warren Carroll, in England with the Army Air Forces, and by a daughter. 
Major Vincent F. Harrington. '25 

nominated for lieutenant-governor on the was able to make only a bulletin an­
In the December issue the ALUMNUS Democratic ticket in the June, 1936, pri­

nouncement of the death from heart mary, but later withdrew to run for 
attack of the nationally known Major Congress. 
Vincent F. Harrington, '25, Sioux City, Elected to Congress from the ninth la. Tubby had succumbed on Nov. 29 in district of Iowa in November, 1936, an officers' club in Rutlandshire, Eng­Vince was re-elected in each succeeding land, where he was on duty as security election. In September, 1942, having al­control officer at the Army Air Forces ready been a major in the Army Air support command base. 

Forces for several months, he resigned Famous first as a guard on the Four 
his congressional seat in fulfillment of Horsemen team of 1924, Vince set a stiff 
a promise made to his constituents in the pace for himself in the years following. 
1940 election: that if he voted for this After his graduation from Notre Dame 
country's participation in the war he he served for two years as director of 
would himself serve in the armed forces. athletics and instructor in the Univer­
Eulogized on the floors of Congress sity of Portland, Portland, Ore. Return­when news of his death became known, ing to Sioux City in 1927, he was vice-Vince was praised particularly as a "man president and general manager of the of his word" and "as a fine, sincere Continental Mortgage Co. From 1932 to lovable gentleman." 

1936 he served as state senator in three sessions of the Iowa senate. He was Surviving him are his wife and two children. A brother, Cietald F., was a Notre Dame student in 1927-28. 
Noteworthy is the fact that Tubby Harrington was the third guard from the Four Horsemen team to die. Johnny Weibel, '25, died in 1931, and Noble Kizer, '25, in 1940. 
Lt. Jon Paul Sevcik, ex. '33, of the Army Engineers, as wdl as his two year old son, Alan Laird, died in a Japanese prison camp in the Philippines, it became known in early January when the ex­change ship Gripsholm completed Its latest voyage. The state department conveyed the tragic news to Lieutenant Sevcik's parents in Kalmath FaUs, Ore. Mrs. Sevcik, wife and mother, remains a prisoner in the Santa Tomas ITniver­sity camp near Manila. 
The date of Lieutenant Sevcik's death was given only as "after the fall of Bataan in 1942;" but the child's death was reported as having occurred last July from typhoid pneumonia. The fath­er was a mining engineer for a private firm in the Philippine Islands at the be­ginning of the Pacific War. He enlisted in the engineers and was with Goieral MacArthur's forces on Bataan. He had attended Notre Dame in 1929-30. 
Capt. John J. McCIoskey, ex. '36, of Philadelphia and Washington, D. C, sacrificed his own life in order to save the lives of two fellow Army officers in a crash near Guadalcanal on NOT. 22. When both motors failed simultaneously on the plane he was piloting, he.turned its nose into a power dive, choosing to try to save the lives of the two accom­panying men at the expense of his own. John took the full shock of the crash and was killed instantly. The other two were saved. 
John, 29 years old, enlisted in the Royal Canadian Air Force early in 1940. He was later attached to the RAF as a flying officer in England and for almost a year served as a night fighter pilot. He transferred to the American Air Forces in September, 1942, and was at Kissimee Air Base in Florida when, in February, 1943, he was sent to the South Pacific as commander of a fight­ing squadron. 
John is survived by a son, five years old, and by his father and mother and sister. 
2nd Lt. Oliver K. McMahon, ex. '38, of the United States Marines, was killed in October in a plane crash on an island in the South' Pacific. No details of the 

accident have so far been received by his family in Rockville Center, N.Y. 
Oliver enlisted in the Naval Air Corps in January, 1940, but several months later was released because of a sight difficulty, later to be cleared up by a tonsil operation. Ee-enlisting in March, 1942, he was trained at Chapel Hill, N.C., Squantum, Mass., and Pensacola, Fla., and received his wings at Pensa­cola on May 20, 1943. He had further training at Jacksonville, Fla., and Glen-view, 111., before leaving the country in September. 
Surviving Oliver are his parents, two sisters and one brother, who is serving in the Navy. 
CyCpl. Lester R. Hoch, ex. '39, Fort Wayne, Ind., was killed in action in Italy, his parents were notified on Dec. 29 in a telegram from the War Depart­ment. In the Army since January, 1942, Les had been in Italy since Oct. 25. He was at Notre Dame for one semester, and had been employed for a year by the General Electric Company, Ft. Wayne. Surviving him are his parents, a sister and a brother who is a lieutenant in the Marines. 
Lt. Richard E, Fox, ex. '41, Fort Wayne, Ind., son of the late Oscar Fox, '07, and brother of Louis A. Fox, '38, 

.was killed on Dec. 9 when the B-17 on which he was traveling crashed into the side of a mountain near Sligo, Ire­land. Killed with Dick, who was the bombardier, were two other members of the crew, the navigator and the radio man. 
Dick was inducted into the Army on 
Nov. 18, 1941, later transferring to the Air Corps. He received his bombardier wings and commission at Ellington Field, Texas, on July 15, 1943, then had fur­ther training at the Army Air Field, Kearney, Nebr., until November. 
Surviving Dick are his mother, his brother and two sisters. 
Ensign James R. Hackner, '42 

Ensign James R. Hackner, '42, La Crosse, Wis., earlier reported as "miss­ing in action" in the Mediterranean theater is "now known to have been killed in action in the performance of his duty and in the service of his country. His remains have been buried in Allied territory outside the continental United States pending cessation of hostilities," according to a telegram to his father. 
Jim enlisted in the Navy in June, 1942, right after his graduation, and reported to Columbia University, New York City, for training the following December. He was commissioned in March, 1943, and a short time later was assigned to active duty with the fleet. He is survived by his father, a brother and two sisters. Jim was a halfback on the football squad at Notre Dame. 
TyS Leo A. Fontana, ex. '41, Gallipo­lis, O., brother of John C. Fontana, '28, Columbus, O., was killed in the Medi­terranean area on Oct. 31. Leo enlisted in February, 1942, soon after Pearl Har­bor, and received his earlier Army Air Corps training at Sheppard Field, Tex­as, and MacDill Field, Fla. 
Assigned to the 342nd Bombardment Squadron, 97th Group, he was among the first United States troops to land in England, and he participated in the invasion of North Africa. 
Leo resided in Breen-Phillips Hall at Notre Dame in 1939-40 and, according to his brother, "he often mentioned the fact in his letters that after the war he was going to return to Notre Dame to school." Leo's parents, his twin sister and his brother survive him. 
1st Lt. John S. Powers, '41, Ingalls, Ind., died on Jan. 4 in India. Details of his death have not so far been disclosed but will, it is hoped, be available for the next issue of the ALUMNUS. He was with the Air Transport Command. 
Said the Religious Bulletin regarding John: "His mother and wife will appre­ciate your prayers. He left a baby daugh­ter he had never seen." 
Ensign Matthew J. "Cy" Miller, '42, Chicago, was killed in an airplane crash 

2nd Lt Olirer E. McMohon, ex. '38 TyS Leo A. Fontana. ex. '41 1st Lt. John S. Powers, '41 
near Wildwood, N.J., on Dec. 8. He was a dive bomber pilot. 
Well known on the campus, Cy was president of the Chicago Club during his senior year. Surviving him are his mo­ther, a brother who is in training to be a naval flyer and two sisters. 
Lt. William C. Adams, ex. '42, Look­out Mountain, Tenn., previously report­ed as "missing in action," must now be reported as "killed in action." A report received by his mother through the In­ternational Red Cross from the German government stated that Billy had been killed on June 13, 1943. He had failed to return that day from a raid on the German naval bases of Bremen and Kiel. 
Ensign John H. Hogan, ex. '45, Fort Wayne, Ind., son of Harry G. Hogan, '04, was killed instantaneously on Jan. 29 when a plane in which he was riding as an instructor was involved in a crash at Vero Beach, Fla. Three other naval fliers were killed in the same accident. 
Jack enlisted in the Naval Air Corps in June, 1942, and trained at Ball State Teachers College, Muncie, Ind., Iowa Pre-Flight School, Iowa City, la.. Bunker 
Ensign John H. Hogan, ex. '45 

Hill Naval Air Station, Peru, Ind., and at the Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Fla., where he was commissioned. He had ship carrier flight training at Great Lakes, 111., and was subsequently assign­ed to Melbourne, Fla., as assistant in­structor. He had gone to Vero Beach early in January, 1944. 
Jack was at Notre Dame in 1941-42. His parents survive him. 
Missing in Action 

Winston Disser, ex. '34, Fort Wayne Ind. Capt. John F. Rogers, '40, Belleville, ^, J, 1st Lt. Donald B. McNally, '42, Win­netka, HI. Lt. Wayne J. O'Connor, ex. '43, Ab­erdeen, S. D. 
Lt. Donald R. Wenger, ex. '44, Elk­hart, Ind. 
 Prisoners of War 

 Lt. Raymond J. Eichenlanb, Jr., ex.  '42, Columbus, O., is a prisoner of the  Germans. 
 Charles A. Zitnik, ex. '44, Chicago,  is likewise a prisoner of the Germans. 

ADDITIONAL MILITARY MEN 
(Tncludinff names received and classified Tip to Jan. 25, '44) 
Afrey. Howard L., ex *42, — Wounded in action in the South Pacific area. 
Alexander. Guido A-. *44. Pfc. U. of Nebraslca. SOU 3709 LanguaKe D4. Love Memorial Li­brary, Nebr. 
Amann. William R.. '44. Pvt. (15107227). Para­trooper, U.S. Army. Co, A, 531st Flara, Inf., Camp Macliall, N. C, 
Anhut, John W., '44, A.S. V-7(G) USNR. S2S Tower Court, Chicsgo. 
Bariscillo, Gcorce A.. Jr.. '44. Pfc, ASTU .'iSO.i, Co. F, Stanford University. Palo Alto, Calif. Barrj-, Norman J.. "44, Ensign, USNR, LST 54, 
c/o Fleet P.O., N.Y.C. 
Battailc, John T.. "44. USNR Midshipmen's School. 404 B. U.S. Naval Academy. Annap­olis, Md. 
Baum. John C, '44, Pfc. U.S. Army. 24th Co., 1st STR. ECC. Fort Benning. Ga. Bcaslcy, Norman B., e.\. '33, Lt. (1294417), Co. 
A. 903 Air Base. Security Bn.. APO 913, c/o P,M., San Francisco. Beaudway, James E., e.\-. '38. A/S. USNTS, Co. 1767, Great Lake-s III. Bedard, Antoine W., e.N. '32. AjS USNR, Co. 
1900 USNTS. Great Lalies. 111. Bcrean, Joseph A.. '42. 2663rd S.U. (ASTP) 30 
N. Ashland Blvd.. Chicago, III. 
Beycrle, John J., '44, Pfc. (15107201). Co. E. MDETC, Bks. 246. O'Reilly General Hospital. Springfield. Mo. 
Binet, William E., '44, Ensign, USNR. Little 
River. Va. Bock, Milton J,, '37, Ensign, Gulfport, Mis.". Bnctto, Dominic P.. '44, A.S. Group A. Bks. 03­
1-17, Norfolk Navy Yard, Portsmouth. Va. Bolger. Charles C , ex. '34. U.S. Army. Boss. William E., '44, A/S, V-7, USNR, Mid­
shipmen's School, Furnald Hall. Billet 712B, New York City. Bradley, Daniel P., '41, AjC, c/o Flight Brigade 
USNAS, Pensacola, Fla. Brchmcr, John B., '43. U.S. Na\y. Brcnnan, John C , '41 — In service — Lt, Brennan, John E„ '35, Lt. (01845862). c/o Post 
Q.M., Fort Custer, Mich, Brieht. John H.. '44. Sgt. (15107233), Post Fi­
nance Office, Camp Stoneman, Calif. Brodcrick, Daniel T., Jr., '41, Ensign, USNR. Brown. Howard C , ex. '45, A/S, USNTS, Co. 964, 
Great Lakes, III. 
Brunetti, Benito E.. '44. Pfc, U.S. Army. AST Unit SCU 3709, A & L IB, Love Memorial Library, U. of Nebr., Lincoln, Nebr. 
Buczkowski, John A,. '44, Pfc (ASN 33766535). Det. Med. Dept., Nichols Gen. Hospital, Louis­ville 2, Ky. 
Burke, William »L, ex. '43. Sgt. Medical Detach­ment, 386th Inf., APO 445, Camp Swift. Texas. 
Callan. John L., ex. '21, U.S. Army Adjutant General's Officer Candidate School. Fort Wash­ington, Md, CarroU. Philip V., '40. Pvt. (32713931), 204th Hospital Ship Company, c/o Embarkation Army Post Office, N.Y.C. 
Carroll. Wells W.. e.x. '16. Lt. Cmdr., U.S. Navy. Killed in service. Cassin, William A., ex. '46, Pvt.. Cannon Com­pany. 311 Inf.. Camp Butner, N. C. Cestaiy, Boy D., ex. '43, U.S. Army, Fort Ben­ning, Ga. Clyne. John C , '44, Pfc , Med. Student, Loyola University, 3641 N. Sheridan Rd.. Chicaga 
Coaker. John P., '44, A/S, U.S. Army, 7Sth Col­lege Trng. Det, James Milliken University, Decatur, HI. 
Condon. David R., ex. '43. Co. A, lS15th Unit Eighth Service Command. Fort Bliss, Texas. (Medical discharge. Dec 3. 1943.) 
Considinc, John M.. ex. '43, A.A.F. Aviation Cadet. AAFFTD, Class 44-F, Hick's Field. Port Worth. Te-xas. 
Conway. Michael J., ex. '43. A/S (13107001). Sndn. 2. Bks. 1. 304th College Trng. Det., Univ. of N.D.. Grand Forks, N. D. 
Costello. Thomas A.. e.x. '44, Pfc. U.S. .'Irmy. AST Co.. FSC. S.U. 1149 Yale University. New Haven. Conn. Cowhic, Gerard F., ex. '43. Pvt , U.S. Army (13107262). (Service) Army Medical. 170 Med. Bn. 430 Collecting Ca, APO 403. c/o Post­master, Shreveport, La. 
Cragin, Marleaa J., ex. '42, Naval Air Station. Pensacola, Fla. Crawford, Francis T.. '34. S/Sgt, U.S. Army. Co. A. Bks. Crow, James D., ex. '46, Pvt,, U.S. Army. Area 
A. Reception Center. Camp Dallas. Texas. Curran. Louis P.. ex. '46, Pvt, U.S. Army, Co. 
A. Bks. 3345. R.C., Fort Devens. Mass. 

Degenhart. Robert W., '43. USNTS. Notre Dame. Ind. Delaney. John P.. Jr., ex. '36. Pvt , Recruit Depot, Marine Bks., Parris Island. S. C. Del Zoppo, Albert J.. '41. Armed Guard School. Gulfport. Miss. 
Denniston. John L., e.x. '43. Pvt , 233 Inf. (Co. G.). 63rd Div.. APO 410. Camp Van Dom, Miss. 
Devlin. Thomas H.. ex. '45, FVt, Co. 31st Med. Trng. Bn., Camp Barkeley, Texas. 
Disser. John W., ex. '34. Missing in action. 
Doyle. Edward E.. '43. Co. E. 347th Inf., ASN 13315541, Camp McCain, Miss. 
Doyle, John T.. '43, Pvt.. (ASN 15342028), Cas. Det, 10 Repl. Depot APO 874, c/o. Postmaster. New York City, 
Dreier. Gtorxe W., ex. '43 (ASN 39040207), AFPS. Navigator Wing, Group 24-N. S<idn. 
D. PL 2. Ellington Field. Texas. Dreier. Richard I., e-x. '43, Pfc (ASN 39043669), 30th TSS. Bks. 778. Scott Field. HI. 
Drew, Charles B., ex. -'08, L t Col.. G.S.C., Gen. Staff of the Commanding General, Boston Fort of Embarkation, Boston, Mass. 
Dacu, Amedee. '44, A/S. U.S. Array. 22 College TmB. Det. Canisius Cbllege. Buffalo. N. Y. Danhmin. James W.. ex. '40. TjSsL, U.S. Marines, 
Marine Air Station. Chern- Point. N. C. Dwyer, Raymond W., ex. '45. A/S. USNR, Co. 
977. Camp Green Bay. Great Lalces. 111. 
Emannel. Dennis G., '38. (MX).) Lt. M.C.. 316th Hed. Bn.. Camp Adair. Ore. EnKle. WiUtam H., ex. '47. A/S, U.S. Na\-y. Co. 
977. USNTS, Great Lakes. 111. 
Englert. Earl R., '44, U.S. Army Air Corps. Seymour Johnson Field. Greenslwro. N. C. 
Fallon. Thomas W., ex. '42. Ensign. USNR. Naval Air Station, Breezy Point, B.O.Q., SP 
64. Rm. 106, Norfolk. Va. 
Felker, Andrew J., '39, Cpl.. 335 Q.M. Base Gen. Depot Supply Co., APO 437, c/o Postmaster, Los Angeles. Calif. 
Feltes, Arthnr W., '44. USNR Midshipmen's School. Room 502 Tower Hall, 820 Tower Court, Chicago, 111. 
Fluty, Robert J., ex. '40, Pvt, U.S. Army Co. D­1 Reception Center, Fort Benjamin. Ind. Flynn, Donald P., ex. '47, Air Student, S9th 
C.T.D. Sqdn. 5. Flight P. Creighton Univer­sity. Omaha. Nebr. Flynn. Thomas F.. '38 .Cpl., U.S. Army-DEML. Room 17. 100 W. 23rd St . Baltimore. Md. Flynn, Robert P., '43, Pf c Dental School, Wa.*­ington. D. C. Foley, Daniel H., '44, U.S. Army Air Corps, 53rd Trng. Group, Class 538-4, Kcesler Field, Miss. Frxwiey, Georse M., ex. '45. Air Cadet, U.S. Army, San Antonio, Texas. Friedman. Loais J., ex. '31. Pvt.. U.S. Army. Co. C, Fort Harrison, Ind. 
Frost, Robert J.. '40, Pfc. (1319269S), 2516 SUAST, Washington. D. C. 
Gaffney. Gerald P., '44, Pi-t-, U.S. Army. 463rd MPEG Co.. Prisoner of War Camp, Camp Howze, Texas. 
Gall, Alfred E., ex. '31. Pvt.. Rcgt Hdqs., 241st CA (HD). Fort Dawes. TOnthrop 52, Mass. GallaEher, Gregory J., ex. '47. V-12 Unit. Mar­
quette University. Milwaukee, Wis. Gallegos, Robert, e-x. '46, Lt., ISth Repl. Wing. A.A.B.. Salt lake City, Utah. Garibaldi. Farncis D., '44. Ensign. USNR, U.S.­NATB, Bldg 6, Solomon's Branch, Washington, 
D. C. Gibson, Joseph J., ex. '46, A/C, U.S. Army (ASN 15342075), 44-3-2 AAFNS. San Marcos, Texas. Glanzner, John L., '35, S 2/C, Platoon 2671, Areal B 10, Camp Peary, AVilliamsburg, Va. Gold, Jerome, '46, Ensign, USNR, U.S.S. Monti­cello, c/o Fleet P.O.. San Francisco, Calif. Gonnan, Geoixe W., '36, Capt, U.S. Army Air Forces, Lawson Field, Fort Benning, Ga. Gorman, William F., ex. '45, Seaman 2/C, USNR, c/o Fleet P.O., San Francisco, Calif. Goimley, Joseph J., ex. '46, Q/M, 3/C, U.S. Na^-y 131, c/o Fleet P. O., San Francisco, Calif. Grainey, Bernard F., ex. '43, Pvt , U.S. Army, Fort Douglas, Utah. Greenlialcll, Robert C ex. '46, Cpl., Army Air Corps, Base Weather Station, Pratt Kans. 
GriSin, William F., ex. '43. Aviation Cadet, Sq. L.-G.P. 3, Class 44F. Sec. 1, Maxivefl Field, Ala. 
Grimm, Georse R., ex. '44, Pvt , 905th T.G., B.T.C. 12, Flight 33A, Bks. 1236, AAFTTC, Amarillo, Texas. 
Gross, Chailes H., ex. '38, Pvt , U.S. Marines, Pla t 91g-8th Bn., Parris Island, S. C. Gross, Seymonr R., '31. L t (jg), USNR (335­968), USNR, Trng. School 13th Bat, 25-37, 
U. of Arizona, Tucson, Ariz. 
GakUn, John A., ex. '44. Lt. U.S. Army Air Forces. 317 Bomb Sqd.. 88 Bomb Group. Avon Park. Fla. 
Guy, WiUiam E., Jr.. ex. '43. 322nd Senr. Sqdn., 91st Group. AAF (39529703). Serv. Center. 
Leesburg. Fla. Gwinn. William R-, '44. Pvt , Arm'd Inf. Bn.. Co. A. 526th Arm'd Inf. Bn.. APO 182B. Los 
Angeles. Calif. 
Haller, Donald F.. '43. T/5 (35730889). Hq. & Hq. Dct. 52nd Repl. Bn.. APO 9191, c/o Post­master. N- Y. C. 
Harper, Jackson B., ex. '46. Aviation Cadet Army Air Forces. 35th T.S.S.. Chanute Field, 
111. Hart. William J., ex. '47. Radar Tech. 3/0, NA­TTC. Bks. 7. Ward Island. Corpus Christi. 
Texas. Rartsock, John R., '39. Advanced Navigation 
School, Hondo. Texas. Haw, Fted J., Jr., '29, USNTS. Great Lakes, III, Hayden, John P.. e.x. '46. Av/C, Detachment. 
44-A. Bks. 26, Blackland Army Air Field. Waco. Tc.\as. Healy. Jerome J., M.A. '43. Lt . U.S. Army Cliap­lain. 79th Inf. Div., Yuma. Ariz. 
Heinritz, Frederick T., ex. '45, A/C, AAFP­FS. Sqdn. B, Group 1, Class 44 F. Flight I, Maxwell Field, Ala. 
Henry, James G., ex. '47, Sgt, 1258 M.P. Co. Avn., APO 637, c/o Postmaster, N.Y.C. 
Hcrber, WilUam C , ex. '45, Av. Cadet 53rd FTD AAFCFS. Riddle Aero Institute 4-44D, Carlstrom Field, Arcadia, Fla. 
Hickey, Edward T., '38, Ensign, USMR 29th Construction Bn., Navy Post Office, N.Y.C. Higgins, Luke M.. '45. Cpl. (15107294). Co. A, 
196th Bn.. Camp Blanding. Fla. Koch, Lester R., e.x. '39. T/Cpl. Killed in action. Horn. Robert J., ex. '43. Pfc. (13342162). 34th 
T.S.S.. Bks. 731. Scott Field. 111. Hewlett. George T., ex. '36. ASUS Navy Co. 1583. USNTS. Great L.-ikes. 111. Hoycr. Raymond F.. Jr., ex. '40, P\-t., Camp Cal­lan, Calif. 
Hughes, William G., ex. '46, Pvt, U.S. Army Air Force (ASN 3G660140), Hotel State, Room 711, 122 W. 12th St , Kansas City, Mo. 
Hurley, WiUiam C , e-x. '46, Pvi. (15342034), 4436 ASTP, The Citadel, Charleston. S. C. Hutchison. Louis F., ex. '30. Pvt.. U.S. Army, Co. A. Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. 

lannncillo, Raymond P., ex. '46. Cpl. (31293172). APO 15018. c/o Postmaster. New York City. Inglis. Robert D., ex. '47. Ensign. USNR, MIT. 
Cambridge. Mass. 

Jeaklc. John G., '44. Ensign. USNR. 143 Brown Hall. USNTS. Princeton. N. J. 
Johnson, Harold W., '43. A/S. 81st CTD. Sq. II. Class 11. Momingside College, Sioux City, la. Jones, Francis G., '29, U.S. Na\-y, Great Lakes, 
111. 

Jones, Waller F., '44, A/S, Det 328, Sqd. A, Section 2, Duquesne University, Pittsburgh 19, Pa. 
Jnday, Robert W., ex. '45, Co. F. Enl. Bn., Bldg. 
119. Army Admin. School Adv. Course. Fort Washington. Md. 

Junkin, George M., ex. '46. Induction Station. Camp Shelby. Miss. 
Kane, Eugene F., ex. '45, Sqd. C. Group 4. Flight 
3. Class 44P, AAPPFS. Maxivell Field, Ala. Kashmer, George B., e-x. '46. Sg t (35138724), Bn. Hq.. 400th Arm'd F.A. Bn.. Fort Knox, Ky. Kearney, John J., '44, Pfc., USMCR, 43rd Candi­dates Class, MCS, Marine Base, Quantica Va. Keating. William J., ex. '46. Co. B. Techwood Drive. Atlanta, Ga. Kelley, James A., ex. '44, Soldier, U.S. Army (15107263), Camp Blanding, Fla. 
Kelly, Walter G., '43. Ensign. USNR. Naval Air Base. Pensacola. Fla. 
Kennedy, Thomas J., '33. 1st Lt . Inf. Repl. Trng. Center, 61st Trng. Bn., Camp Wolters. Texas. 
Kenny. William J., '44. Pvt. U.S. Army, Co. A, 526 A.I. Bn.. AFO 188. c/o Postmaster. Los Angeles. Calif. 
Kersten. Herbert M., e-x. '41. Army Medical Re­serve. Roper Hospital. Charleston. S. C. Kiley. Robert P., c.x. '44, Pvt, Btry. B, 567th AAAAW, Camp Haan. Calif. 
Killoren, Eacene R., e-x. '43, A/ 0 (16137466), Flight 34, Class 44-3,AAFNS, Selman Field. Monroe, La. 
Kins, James A., ex. '46, Pvt. Sheppard Field. 419 TSS. B768, Sheppard Field. Texas. 
Kinc. Thomas A., ex. '46. Cpl. (ASN 31268891). Med. Det, 262nd Inf.. APO 434, Camp Robin­son, Ark. 
Kinneary. Joseph P., '28. In senice. Kinney. John F., ex. '46. Pfc . Lowry Field. Den­ver. Colo. Kistner. George L., ex. '47, Pvt . USMCR. Pi t 
984. RDMCB. San Diego 41. Calif. Klee. John R., ex. '44. A/C, Class 44-D-B-l. Cur­tis Field. Brady. Texas. Koch, John D., ex. '44, A/C, Bks. 2E, Class 44K 69th AAFFTD, Union City, Tenn. Koch, Robert J., '41, Pv t (36851886). Co. B. 5th Bn.. ARTC. Fort Knox, Ky. Komp, John R., e.x. '44, A/C. Sq. L, Group 3, Class 44-F. Sec 3, Maxwell Field. Ala. 
Koontz, Edward J., '32. Lt. USNR. Subordinate Command, Service Force. Pacific Fleet, Federal Bldg.. San Francisco. Calif. 
Koontz, Waliam D., ex. '47. A/C, U.S. Army Air Force. iSiid. 3, Gibbs Field. Fort Stockton. Texas. 
Kort. Dayton T., ex. '41. Lt. U.S. Army Air Forces. Kramer, Robert W., ex. '46, Pv t (36636650), 
U.S. Army, 23rd T.T.S.. Class 9. Flight 2. Fort Logan. Colo. 
Kadlacz. SUnley A., ex. '44. Pfc. U.S. Army. 769th Bomb Sq.. WAAB. Victoria. Kans. 
Lally, Paul L., '44. U.S. Navy. V-7 (G). LaLone. Norman C, ex. '44. A/C (ASN 3658­S628). Sqdn. B. Bks. 1036. Johnson Field, N. C. 
Landsren, James P., '44, Pvt. (13107086). Co. A. 526th Arm'd Inf. Bn.. c/o Postmaster. Los Angeles. Calif. 
Lardie. Leo J.. '44, Sec 13, 135th St & North River, New York 27. N. Y. Laax, Jack. ex. '31. Camp Custer. Mich., Avia­tion Corps. Scott Field, 111. Lchan, Paul G., e-x. '35. A/S. U.S-N.. Co. 1867. Great Lakes N.T.S.. Great Lakes, 111. Lennertz, Raymond J., '43. U.S.N. Training School. Notre Dame. Ind. Liljestrom, WiUiam P., '43. USNTS. Notre Dame. Ind. 
Loachery, Robert J., '40, Ensign. USNR. U.S.S. Y.M.S.. 273. c/o Fleet Ftost Office. New York City. 
Lawry, Joseph K., '43, USNTS. Notre Dame. Ind. Lyndl. John A.. '44. Co. A. 32nd Bn.. Platoon 3. Camp Croft. S. C. 
MalMney. James J., '44. Midshipmen's School, USNR. Furnald Hall. Billet 303. 411 W. 116th St. New York City. 
Hancan, John T.. '44. USNR, Med. Student. School of Medicine. S t Louis. U., 3632 Blaine Ave.. S t Louis. 
Marek. M. A-. ex. '37, In service—in California. Marsfc, WiUiam P., '41. Lt, Hines. Ore Killed In Service. 
Martin. Roland A.. '39, Pvt (ASN 36836241). 718 Trng. Group. Sq. A. Jefferson Bks, Mo. Mathews, Newton L., e-x. '36. Chicago, 111. Killed 
in Service. 
BIcAUister. John R., ex. '41. Sgt/Major, Air Transport Command Trng. Det,' Common­wealth Airport. East Boston, Mass. 
MeCaan, James D.. Jr., Capt, Hdqs.. Chesa­peake Bay Sector, Fort Monroe. Va. 

McCanna, P. R., '41. Pfc, Marquette Medical School. 3109 Highland Blvd.. Milwaukee. Wis. McCIoskey. John J., e.x. '36, West Philadelphia, 
Pa. Killed in Action. McDonald, Philip W., ex. '47, ASUSN, Co. 778. USNTS. Great Lakes. 111. McEIkn. WiUiam A., '29. Cpl.. Co. F, 379th Inf.. APO 95. Los Angeles. Calif. McGnire, Thomas D., '44, Co. K. 43rd C.C, M.B., Bks. E. Quantico. Va. 
McKahan. Robert C , '44. Pvt. (15109093), 54th Trng. Gp.. Sqdn. D 548-4, Keesler Field. Miss. McMahon, John"E., '39. Aviation Cadet. AAF Pre-Flight School. AAFTC, Maxwell Field, Ala. McMahon. Oliver K., ex. '38, Rockville Centre, 
N. Y. (Killed in action). McManns, Joseph C, '44. USNR Midshipmen's School. Columbia University. New York City. McNerlhncy. Joseph B., '42, Sgt. (19022603), Hq. & Hq. Sqdn.. AAF. Laredo. Texas. McNicoU John A., ex. '43. Lt., Army Air .Base, Dyersburg. Tenn. 
McNnlty. James E., ex. '41. 1st Lt.. Army Air Force. Brookley Field. Mobile. Ala. (8th Re­porting Detachment.) 
McVay, James F., '43. Ensign, USNR. LCS S8E. 
U.S. Naval Repair Base, San Diego 36, Calif. Meister, Georce F., '35. U.S. Navy. Meli, Vincent A., '44. Lt. (0525576). APO 887, 
c;o Postmaster. N.Y.C. Meyer. William E., e.\-. '46. A/S, Co. 977. 53rd Batt.. USNTS. Great Lakes, 111. MiUer. Francis J., '29, A/S, USNR. Co. 1849, USNTS, Great Lakes, 111. 
Miltner. Francis H.. '40, ASTU 3918. Co. A-2, University of California. Berkeley. 4, Calif. Molnar, Nicholas F., '34. U.S. Naval Training 
Station. Great Lakes. III. Horiarly. George J.. '36, Lt. (jg) D-V, U.S. 
Navy. Morrison, James R.. '34. USNR. Mnellner. Joseph F., '33. Pvt. (35733833), Btry C, 
nt h 4th Regt.. FARTC. T.R 183. Fort Bragg, 
N. C. MuUoy. John T., c.\-. '43. (S)!-. U.S. Marine Corps. Murphy. Paul V., '32. Ensign. USNR, U.S.S. 
P;C 1174, c/o Fleet Post Office, New York City. 
Nelson, Robert A., '44. A/S. USNR. Cornell Med­ical College, 1300 York Ave.. New- York City. Newman. Bernard W., ex. '41, Lt . Co. D, 760th 
M.P. Bn.. APO 830. c/o Postmaster. New Or­leans. La. 
Nilles, John G., '44, USNR Midshipmen's School, Columbia University, John Jay Hall, Billet 1114. New York City. 
Nolan, Robert A., '41. Ensign. USNR, Cornell University, U.S. Naval Trng. School, Ithaca. 
N. Y. 
O'Brien. Thomas F., '44, Ensign, USNR. NTS. 
(I) Batt. 53-A-13-lo7, Fort Schuyler, Bronx 61, N. Y. O'Brien, William F., '44, USNR Midshipmen's School, 424 Furnald Hall, New York 27, N. Y. 
O'Connor. Thomas J.. '44. Pfc (ASN 15107039). Co. H. 350th Inf.. AFO 88, c/p P«tmaster, New York City. '• 
O'Connor, WiUiam C, '44, A/S, USNR V-7 Mid­shipmen's School, Room 1205 Tow^r Hall, 820 Tower Court, Chicago, 111. 
Odem. David, ex. '42, Trng. Div. 99F, NSNAS. Miami, Fla. 
O'Neill, John J., '44. Pvt. (ASN 15120822). 13th Co.. 4th Bn.. oth Regt., ASTP-BT-TIS, Har­mony Church Area. Fort Benning. Ga. 
O'Reilly, Joseph T.. '44, A/S (13107244), Flight E2. 85th. C.T.D.. University of Wichita, Wich'J ita, Kans. ;.^ 
.. . V** -• 

Parks, Okn U. ex. '42. U.S. Army, Camp San Luis Obispo. Calif. 
Pendcrgast, Francis J., '27. 1st Lt , Spec. Inf. Officer Fairfield Air Service. Patterson Field Command. Fairfield. O. Pendergast, John P., '33, Cpl.. Hdqs. 18th Corps, Camp Bowie. Brownwood, Texas. Pierce, WiUiam C , '33, SySgt., 617 AAFTSS, Truax Field. Madison, Wis. Pons, John P., e-x. '44. FVt. Q.M. Remount Depot; Fort Royal. Va. Powers, Thomas V.. '42. Cpl. (32611691). 352nd 
M.P. E.G. Co., Camp Patrick Henry. Newport News. Va. Prezebel, Richard P., ex. '35. Air Transportation 
School. New York Athletic Club, New York City. 
Quinn, Joseph P.. Jr.. '37. U.S. Navy, c/o Post­master, New York City. Quinn, Morgan J., '44. Pv t (15342432). Co. C. 3Sth Inf. Trng., 2nd Bn., I.R.C.. Camp &of t 
S. C. 
Rail, Francis M., ex. '47. FVt (ASN 35730152). Co. A. 31st M.T.B.T.-456. 1643 Service Unit Camp Grant. 111. Randolph. WiUiam E., '43. A/C. Sqd. A, Group 1. Flight 2A. Maxwell Held. Ala. Ransavage. Anthony J., '31, U.S. Army. Reedy, Joseph J., '27, Capt, 11th P.K, APO 516. c/o Postmaster. New York City. Robinson, John F., '28. L t Cmdr., 10 Nl Main St.. West Hartford. Conn. 
Rolfs, Thomas J., '44, A/S, U.S. Army Air Corps, 214 CTD Air Corps, Flight 1-A. Ellensbnrg, Wash. 
Roney, Edward C , '43, Ensign, USNR. c/o Com­mander. Fourth Fleet, c/o Fleet Post Office, New- York City. Rourke, Daniel J.. '44. A/S, V-12. USNR, 3505 T St , N.W.. Washington 7, D. C. 
Sackley. Edward J., e-X. '37. Pvt. (36696307). Sixth Co.. 6th Regt, ASTP-BTC, Fort Ben­ning, Ga. 
Saitta, Joseph J., '40. Fv t (36837348), 3rd Pla­toon, Co. C, 57th Eng. Trng. Bn., Camp Abbot. Ore. 
Schaab. Richard G.. ex. '43. Midshipman. US­NTS, Notre Dame. Ind. Schmitz. Louis E., '44. Pvt. (ASN 13107213). APO 15121, c/o Ftostmaster, San Francisco, Calif. Schoenleln, Theodore A., ex. '31, A/S. USNR, Bn. 1886, Great Lakes, 111. 
Schoonover. Robert J., ex. '44. 80th AAFCTD, Class 43C16, Iowa State Teachers College, Cedar Falls. la. 
ScibeUi, Lnigi A., ex. '45. Pv t (31359317), Co. 4, SCU 3419, ASTP, API. Auburn. Ala. Semczyszyn. Joseph M., '39, Moosic. Pa. Medical discharge from U.S. Army. Sentz, Lester C. '44, A/S. U.S. Army Air Corps. Sqdn. C. Room 33, 57th C.T.D., U. of Ala. SevcUc. Jacob P., ex. '33, Lt , Klamath Falls, Ore. Died in a Japanese prison camp. 
Simmons, Robert F., '35. Cpl. (32844593). Co. A. 193rd Glider Inf.. 17th A.B. Div., APO 452. Camp Mackall, N. C. 
Slattery. David D., ex. '45. Pvt., U.S. Army, Co. D, 9th Bn., IRTC, Fort McClellan, Ala. Smith. Donald H.. '38, Pvt. Co. C. 881st A/B Eng'r. Bn., Westover Field. Mass. 
Smith, Richard M., '42, 336th Sqdn., 95th Bomb Group, AFO 634. c/o Postmaster, New York City. 
Sommerer, Edwin H., '40, Pfc , Co. C Class 18, Army Administration School, Washington A Jefferson College,' Washington, Pa. 
StaCicr. FiaMil R, ex. '4S, Pvt (I53I5580). Btry. B. 231st SyL Bn. AAA. AAFTAC, O K lando, Fla. 
Staler. Sctm. '33. Lt. (is), US. Naval Ttainins Station. Princeton University. Princeton. N. J. 
S t Gecisr. Qaitk* M.. '44, Co. F. ASTU SMS, 
Stanford University. Palo Alto, CaUf. Simiiain. Patiidc J., '38. 2nd Lt, 'nansportS' tion Corps. APO 713. ejo Postmaster, San 
Francisco. Cklif. • • 
SadUvaB, Daaid J.. '37. Ensign. U.S. Navy. 
SaUiTaa. Dau M J., '32. Lt (jg). NTS (I). Bil. let A-15 Fort Sehnyler. Bronx 61. N. T. 
SaDiTaii. Jaacph B , '42, Pvt. Co. A. 1st Sis^ Trng. Bn, USCS, Room 288, Camp Davi< Calif. 
SolIiTaa, Jsaeph W.. '42, 1st Lt, U.S. Amy Air Corps. 
SappBtt. Gearce L., '42. Cab 11. Camp Allen. Norfolk 11. Va. 
Talkat. WiUiam F.. '44. Midshipman. USNB. 523B John Jay Hall, Midshipmen's School. New York City. 
Thampaan, Lawmce. ex. '39, Capt, 16th Caval­ry, Fort Riley, Kans. 
Tkamtan, Jakn F., ex. '44, Pv t (1S107095), T 6 
609. 63rd Wing. Bks. 569, Sheppard Fidd. Texas. 
'fieracy, Lawrence J.. '44. Pvt. Co. F. 259th Int. Camp Shelby. Hiss. 
Task. Theadarc T., '44. 2nd Lt, U^ICR. Co. & 39th R C Marine Base, Qnantieo. Va. 
Tnney . Timalhy WiUiam. '38. Lt , Special Serv­ice OeSce, Fort Hancock, N. J. 
Targcan. Le* V.. '42. Pfc (ASN 17165848). 2024 
N. 16th. Ap t 21. Omaha 10, Nebr. 
Van BarcB. Claytaa H., '44.'A/S. Cadet Piocram. Army Air Force. 85th CID, Flight A-3. U. of 
Wichita, Wichita 6, Kans. 
Vaaskaa, Jaaeph fU, '34, In service—Lt 
VenBcaum. Jamea B.. '38. Lt. USMCB Air 
Forces, Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 
VeriMCstia, AitJhar J.. '39. Lt. Hed. Dept. 43th Gen. Hospital. AFO 477. c/o Postmaster. New York City. 
Walsh. Ridunl J., ex. '45, U.S. Army Air Gnps. 
Wateihary. Daaiel E.. '44, Midshipmen's Sdiool. USNR. 4263 Bancroft HiiU. U.S. Naval Acad­emy, Annapolis. Md. 
Wekr, TheWaie S.. ex. '43. Hdq. Div.. Service of Supplies, APO' 502, e/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. 
Weigel, Stcvea J., '44, Pvt . 30th Hed. Trng. Bn , Camp Grant. lU. Weiss. Lawrence L.. '37. A/S. U.S. Navy Ca. 2048. USNTS. Great Lakes. IIL 
White. WUiam T.. USNR Hidshipman School. Abbott Hall. Northwestern U.. Chicago. IlC -Wiethafl; Jafca P , '43. Ensign. USNR. Naval 
Air Station B.O.Q., Seattle. Wash. WindlMim, Kakert G.. '40. S.&0. Hqs. XV m 
Corps, APO 109, Brownwood, Texas. 
Wiateihalter, John C , ex. '46. Pvt, ir.S. Ai^;^­604 T.G.. Fl. 29. 9q. D, lincoln Air Base, I ^ coin, Nebr. • -
WaeUc. Jain C, '44. Pvt. COL K 2nd Fhtoon. 3Ist Trng. Bn.. Camp Croft S. C. 
Ycates. Hariy L.. '44, Pvt (15107099)', AFO 16049. e/o Postmaster, San F^meisea CaUf. -
Zcitat, Jaha R ..'38, Ensign. USNB. ZItaik. Cfearies A., ex. '43. ChieagOk III. Captmcd. German prisimer. 
»

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Mildred Garner and Lt. William H. Waters, Jr., USNR, '39. 
Miss Florence Perry and 2nd L.1. C. P. Sadow­ski, '39. 
Miss Carolyn Ruth Asher and Karl F. Fromuth, •40. 
Miss Geraldine Peacock to Lt, James R- Vecne­man, ex. 40. 
Miss Patricia Ross and Joseph G. Callahan, '41. 
Miss Nancy Gregg Maloney and 1st Lt. Paul T«fel, Jr., '42. 
Miss Lue Ann Wilson to 1st Lt. Bernard C. McKay, USMC, '42. 
Miss Marcia Jo-Ann Roberts to James J. Mahcr, Jr., '43. 
Marriages 
Miss Catherine Roti Roti and Rudolph G. Rodi­ehero. *24, on Jan. 15 in the Lo? Chapel. Notre Dame. 
Miss Marie Patricia Montani and Lt. Edward J. DeBmrtoIo, '32, "on Dec IS at Alexandria, Va. 
Miss Edith Frances Gilbert and 1st Lt. John J. Hurler, '33, on Sept 19 in St. Louis. 
Miss Patricia Cecillc GrcRory and William Wells Green* '34, on Jan. 10 in Corpus Christi. Texas. 
Miss Dorothy Wilkens and SJSKU Francis .T. Crawford, *34, on Aug. 22 in Lowell, Mass. 
Miss Elizabeth Holman Myers and Lt. (jg) P. . Joseph Lynch, '35, in South Bend, on Jan. 6. 
Miss Berniece L. Spietz and Lt. (jg) A. D. Mc-Carth}', '35, on Nov. 5 in Detroit. 
Miss Frances Perkins and Thomas F. FIjTin, *3S, at Dalton. Ga. on Oct. 16. 
Miss Lois McTigue and L t David W. Harris, '39, on Nov. 6 in Chicago. 
Miss Willie Mae Flielps and Lt. Robert P. Picr­cecchl, "39, on Nov. 27 in Royal Oak, Mich. 
Miss Dolores Lorraine Docco and Ensign Daniel Brady Kelly, '39, Dec. 15 in Forest Hills, N. Y. 
Miss Elsie Virginia Leivesley and Lt. Robert Irving Howard, *40, on Nov. 17 in Richmond, Va. 
Miss Ruth Eileen Montani and Francis A. Mas­triana, ex. *39. on Jan. 8 in Youngstown. O. 
Miss Jean Trentman and Lt. Ted P. Jochems, •40, on Nov. 22, 1943. 
Miss Mary Frances Leahy and Lt. Jchn Louis Darroazet, '40, on Dec 8 in Fresno, Calif. 
Hiss Helen Leonard and 1st Lt. Walter Ha^en. Jr., '40, on Dec. 10 in Watertown. N. Y. 
Miss Virginia Margaret Cartier and Ensign Don­ald Francis Mmgutn, '41, on Jan. 21 in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
Miss Pauline Flannery and Lt. John C. Bren­nan, '41, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, on Nov. 
Miss Suzanne West and Lt. William P. Kramer, 
•41, on Nov. 21 in El Paso, Texas. 
Miss Marjorie Hosinski and Plii!ip Jordan HameL '41. Nov. 13, in the Log Chap2l. Notre Dame. 
Miss Martha Jane McDonald and Lt. Jcseph A. Matson. '42. on Dec. 16 at Craig Field. Ala. 
Miss Bette A. Allen and Ensign Walter G. Kelly, ex. '43, on Jan. 6 in Pensacola. Fla. 
Miss Marie Dunn and Ensign Ray James Sdioon­hoven, '43, in Chicago recently. 
Miss Ruth R Webster and James R. Inwood, ex. '44. in South Bend on Dec. 12. 
Birth! 
Mr. and Mrs. James D. Collins, *25, announce the birth of a son, Patrick James, on Jan. 3 in Indianapolis. 
A son, Harold Francis, was born to Mr. and Mrs. John J. Staunton, '32. of Maywood, HI. on Nov. 9. 
Lt. and Mrs. William R. Robison, *33, announce the birth of a daughter, Pamela Margaret, on Nov. 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. Maurice J. DeWaM, '33, announce the birth of a daughter, Jean Biquette, on Dec. 22. 
A daughter, Kathrj-n Ann, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Kellcy, '34. Evansville, Ind. 
A son, Richard William, was born Jan. 1. to Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Puglicsc, *34. 
Mr. and Mrs. D. J. Hickcy, *36, announce the birth of a son, David Eugene, on Sept. 27 in Davenport, la. 
Mr. and Mrs. Redman Duggan, *38. announce the birth of a son, David William, on Dec 23 in Ogden. Utah. 
Lt. and Mrs. W. H. Tucker, '40, announce the birth of a son, William Henry. Ill, on Dec. 13­

Ensign and Mrs. Robert C. Maddock, .'42. are the parents of a daughter. Patricia Ann, bom Dec 30 in Santa Ana. Calif. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Sullivan, *42, announce the birth of a daughter, Carrie Ann, on Jan. 14 in South Bend. 
Deaths 
Alex J. Campmn, Fort Worth, Texas, a student at Notre 'Dame in the late ISTO's and early 1880's, died on Dec 1. Member of a pioneer De­troit family, Mr. Campau was bom there in 1866. He moved to Fort Worth 30 years ago. Sur\*iving him are one son and three brothers. 
Georce L. O'Brien, Class of 1S93. lay trustee, loyal and outstanding alumnus of the University. died on December 30 after pneumonia had taxed an already weakened heart. 
George O'Brien's interest in Notre Dame was as deep and as broad as his background in her history. He kept up the contacts with priests and Brothers and nuns and the csmpus for the whole of the 50 years after he left the clrssrooms. His home was open to any who c;:me in the name of Notre Dame. 
Business success, ultimately as the president of the O'Brien Varnish Co., brought him pri­marily added opportunities to aid Notre Dame. He was generous in many ways. His interest and generosity launched the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, with the other local trustees, on its successful Centenary Fund effort. A sec­ond annual gift of generous proportions contin­ued his interest and loyalty in the Fund program almost up to the time of his death. 
His character w-s a constant recommendation of the University to his host of friends and busi­ness contacts. A son. Eugene O'Brien, '35. South Bend, n brother, Frederick, '94, a sister, Mrs. Jerome Crowley. Chicago, survive him. Mrs. George O'Brien, known to^ many alumni, had preceded her husband in death, in Februarj-. 1943. 
Requiem high mass in St. Joseph's Church was sung by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. with Rev. Eugene P. Burke. CS-C and Rev. Cornelius Hagerty, CS-C . as deacons. Rev. Wen­dell Corcoran. C.S.C. prenched the sermon. Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C. D.D., came from New York for the service. 
Family connections of George O'Brien went back beyond the founding of Notre Dame, when his grandfather, Samuel Byerley, met Father Ed­ward Sorin on his arrival in New York. Later the family moved, to South Band and the chain of friendship continued to add new links. 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell. C.S.C. president of the University, issued a public statement concerning Mr. O'Brien: 
George L. 03rien. '93 

"From the foundinE of the University an in­timate bond has existed between the O'Brien family of South Bend and Notre Dame. It was Samuel Byerley who, on instruction from Bishop de la Hailandiere. of Vincennes. met Father Sorin on his arrival in New York in September. 1841. Later, after Mr. Byerley's removal to South Bend, he frequently befriended the founder in the early days of strusgle and hardship. The Byerley home became a center for the pioneer priests of Holy Cross, and the happy tradition was continued in succeeding generations, first by Mr. Byerley's daughter, and then by his grand­son. George L. O'Brien, devoted alumnus and faithful trustee of the University. 
"George O'Brien was universally respected be­cause he was a Christian gentleman in both his business and social relationships. Despite the fact that he was occupied with the affairs of an industry that had gained a national reputntion, he always found time to interest himself in the development of his native city. Enterprises that would better mankind or relieve suffering, such as Healthwin sanitarium, had the benefit of his prudent counsel and substantial support. He kept in close touch with all phases of the life and development of his alma mater, and never failed iicr when she called on him. In mourning his loss, the University can pay him no higher com­pliment than to say that he was an exemplary Notre Dame man." 
Most Rev. Francis W. Howard. D.D*^ LL.D. '12, bishop of Covington. Ky., died on Jan. 18 at the age of 76. Bishop Howard was widely known as an organizer and prominent member of the Catholic Education Association. He had many friends at Notre Dame: the late Rev. James A. Burns. C.S.G., also a pioneer in the C.E.A.. was one of his closest associates. Rev. Patrick J. Carroll. C.S.C. editor of "The Ave Maria." represented the Community and the University at the funeral seni-ices. 
Thomas F. O'Neil. '13. Miami Beach. Fla.. 
father of Thomas F. 
O'Neil. Jr., a Notre Dame 
student until he left re­
cently for military serv­
ice, and the father-in­
law of Capt. Richard J. 
O'Melia, USMC. *39, died 
in Miami on Dec. 12 fol­
lowing an operation for 
appendicitis-
Mr. O'Neil was 52 
years old at the time of 
his death. In 1915 he 
joined the General Tire 
and Rubber Company, 

which had just been organ­ized by his brother. William P. O'Neil. With time out to join the United States Na\*y as an ensign in World War I, he served the company in the sales department. Akron. O.. until 1928, when he went to Miami to super\'ise General Tire stores there. When the company opened its Florida district, Mr. O'Neil became Florida dis­trict manager, continuing in that capacity until his death. He was one of the original directors of the company and its secretary for many years. 
T. F. O'Neil 
Surviving Mr. O'Neil are his wife, three sons and four daughters, his mother, three brothers and two sisters. 
Class poet at Notre Dame. Mr. O'Neil was also on editor of the "Scholastic" and an associate edi­tor of the 1913 "Dome." In Akron he found the time, despite a busy business life, to be a director of the Catholic Service League, and in Miami Beach he had been president of his Holy Name Society as well as a member of the board of trus­tees of St. Francis Hospital. He was a member of the Knights of Columbus and of the Catholic Club of New York City. 
Mr. O'Neil was devoted to Notre Dame. He came to the campus frequently, and his hospital­ity to Notre Dame men in Miami Beach was tra­ditional. He extended a special welcome to the innumerable Notre Dame service men who were in the area for war training. 
Dr. Wllhelm Middelsdiolte, LL.D. *22, for years a member of the Summer School music faculty at Notre Dame, died on May 4, 1943. near Dartmund. Germany, according to a recent note from his wife. Dr. Middelschulte was one of the world's great organists, particularly not­able as an interpreter of Bach. He was likewise a composer of the highest repute as well as an inspiring teacher. His Sunday afternoon organ concerts in Sacred Heart Church are one of the brightest memories of many who attended Notre Dame summer sessions during the •20s. 
John F. Reilly, M.A. '29, died on Jan. 6 in Houston, Texas, and was buried on Jan. 10-in Memphis, Tenn. Graduated from St. Edward'^ University, Austin, Texas, in 1927, John came to Notre Dame as a Boy Guidance student. He was assistant superintendent and director of athletics for the recreation department of the city of Houston. 
As was noted briefly in the December "Alum­nus," John E. Bergan, '31. for several years the secretary of his class, died in South Bend on Dec. 10 following a heart attack four hours before. 
Ebcperienced in journalism through his out­standing work on the "Scholastic" during his years at Notre Dame. John took over the secre­taryship of the class of '31 several years ago and to that job devoted himself ardently. His contributions to the "Alumnus" were regular and all-embracing, the result of an intense in­terest and a "nose for news." The high success of the 10-year reunion of the class in 1941 was due in large measure to his long and careful planning. 
Prominent in many South Bend activities, John was a member of the Holy Name Society of St. Joseph's Church, the Knights of Columbus and the Elks. He WKS employed by the Torrington Company, Bantam Ball Bearings division, in Sou'h Bend. 
Surviving John are three sisters, Margaret, Cecilia and Mrs. Lawrence (Moon) Mullins. and four brothers. William, ex. '31, Paul, ex. *36, Cornelius. '40, and Pfc. Joseph Bergan. '42. 
Rev. Cornelius Hagerty. CS-C , John's uncle, celebrated the funeral Mass for him on Dec- 13 in St. Joseph's Church. South Bend-
James A. Kanfmann. '35. Newton. III., ill for many years, died on Nov. 23 according to an in­spiring letter from his mother. Jim had gone to the University of California following his gradu­ation as an honor student in science, but re­turned home in February, 1936. and had been there ever since. All through his trying years he remained intensely interested in and loyal to the University, and in his memory his mother sent a generous contribution to the Centenary Fund and to the "Alumnus." 
Edward J. Dickson, '42. Crafton. Pa., died suddenly on Oct. 20 in his home, the victim of a heart ailment from which he had suffered for many years. 
Upon his graduation in May. 1942. Ed was employed by the Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp. Classified .4-F in the draft but yearning to enter military service, he at length became associated with the Military IVansport Division of the Air Transi>ort Command, was in GI uniform and sent to Macon. Ga., as an agent at the govern* ment airport. 
Only July 1 he received two bars and an offi­cers* rating in recognition of his excellent serv­ices and was transferred to New Orleans. Hav­ing contracted, on his first day in New Orleans, a serious case of food iHiisoning he was forced to return to Grafton. He had just recovered from that illness when the fatal heart attadc struck him. 
The "Alumnus" extends sympathy to Dennis John Hickey, IH, '36, upon the death of his father: to Lt. (jg) Thomas Stritch upon the death of his father: to Daniel SuUivan, MO. upon the death of his mother: to Lt. Cornelias Geary, '40, upon the death of his father: to Pan!, *32. and Loais. '34. Clark upon the death of their mother; to Rev. James McShane, S*J., '28. on the death of his father: to Rer. Joseph Kekoe. C.S.C., '33, on the death of his father; to Rev. John P. Lynchk C.S.C., '25. on the death of his father and brother: to Fredarick C. Bfiller, '29. on the death of his uncle; to the family of the late James V. O'DonnelL '89, on the death of his wife. Agnes Lynch O'Donnell; to John Leddy. '32. on the death of his brother: to Jadxe Wil­liam J. Clancy, Jr., *24, Edward Clancy, *20. and Dr. James F. Clancy, ex. '21, on the death of their father: to the family of the late J. T. Foley, '71, on the death of his wife. 
Personals 
Bmr, J. A. BbafHun. 
Saiat J« Moant CImaas. Bfick. 

1890-99 
Rev. William P. Burke, of the Church of the Visitation. Kewanee. III., was honored by the citi­zens of the city on Jan. 24. having completed 25 years as pastor. Prominent and popular in civic affairs as well as church affairs. Father Burke received a purse of $2,500 in appreciation of his labors. ^ native of Ottawa, 111., he attended St. Viator's College. Bourbonnais. III., and Notre Dame and was educated for the priesthood in St. Bernard's Seminary, Rochester. N. Y. He was or­dained in St. Patrick's Cathedral. Rochester, on June 9. 1900. 
From Father Mac: 
A letter from Al DannemiUer, '95, reminils me there was no news of the '90's in the last "Alum­nus." Al's letter helps and I'll be glad to have any alumnus of the '90's follow his example He was inquiring about Father III and other friends en the campus and wished to be remembered to them. His friends will te very sorry to learn that Al's oldest son..Lt. Albert DannemiUer. Jr., lost his life last summer in an accident in Oran while serving his country. His other son, Lt. Edward DannemiUer, is with the armed forces in Australia. 
Hie news o^the death of Georffe O'Brien* '93. of South Bend, will bring sorrow to a very large number of the alumni to whom he was well 
. known. He was a most devoted and loyal ahiro­nus of the University, always working to ad­vance its interests and served as one ot the 
lay trustees. For more than three score years, he gave an example of loyalty and service to his Alma Mater that cannot be surpassed. He was iust as ardent in his scr\-ice to his fellow men 
— a leader in the relieious, civil and business life of the community. He was in his family life, a most exemplary husband and father. 
He carried on the traditions of his family in lovins and helpinn Notre Dame, for the O'Brien family has lone been a part of the history of Notre Dame. George O'Brien has passed to his eternal reward but to all of us who knew him he will sene as a model of the true Notre Dame man whose motto is "For God, for Country, and for Notre Dame." I am sure Notre Dame men ever>-\vhere will pray for the eternal repose of his soul. 
 E. Burke, CS.C, 1905-09 BcT. Thomu 
'tT, Natie Dame, Ind. 
After an absence of 25 years, Ray Dasdibach, Los Angeles, returned to the campus for Jan. 22 and 23. ITie alumni secretaries spent a pleasant hour with him on Jan. 22, just before he left for a chat with Father Matthew Schumacher, chaplain of St Mary's College. Mr. Daschbach's trip was to talte him to New York, Florida, Pittsburgh and other points. 
Howard Becchinor has opened new insurance of­fices in 1104 United Artists BIdg.. Detroit 2G. 
 J. VoU. 206 E. Tutt St, South 
Bend, Ind. 
1917 B. 
Stan Cofall is now president and treasurer of the National Solvent Corp., Cleveland. And. in his spare moments, he is also chairman of the Cleveland Boxing Commission. In the latter ca­pacity he recently succeeded Tris Speaker of base­ball fame. 
1918 
John A. Lemmer, 901 Lake Shore Drire, Escanabm, Midi. 
The class secretarj* notes that the chaplaincy of Father Frank Baland, C.S.C., has never been officially recorded in the class columns. Father Boland is now Lt. Boland of the U.S. Na\*y. His present address is 114 Battalion. Lido Beach. N. Y. 
 B. Ward, 1012 Black Bidff., Los 1920 Leo 
Angeles, Calif. 
From Leo Ward: 
Gene Kennedy — Capt, E. M. Kennedy, Head­quarters, Ninth Ser\*ice Command, Fort Douglas, Utah — passed through South Bend on one of his trips between Fort Douglas and "Washington, 
D. C. I received a note from Gene, a part of which reads as follows: 

"I had a chance to see and did see the Notre Dame-Pre-Flight game, one of the best I ever witnessed. Had no opportunity to do any talking around South Bend; had to get back to Chicago where I was a guest of Jndge (Mr. Justice) Kiley. He had a little lunch at the University-Club. Present were Gos Desch, Ojai Larsen, Chet Wynne^ Jerome Dixon, John Montagne and John Kenney." 
Col. Sherwood Dixon passed through Los An­geles on his way out to the South Seas, so I am told. He was here only a few hours and very busy. Ed Gottiy spent several days in Southern California organizing the "March of Dimes." I spent a pleasant evening with him where he entertained Harry Denny, now of' the moving pictures, Delmar J. Edmondson, now professor of English at Glendale Junior College, and Ed AA of. Lockheed Aircraft, with piano recitals and recounting days that Denny, Gottry and Ed­mondson spent in Paris. 
I received a Christmas card from Lt. Cmdn William R. Moloney somewhere in the South Seas. He is attached to the Marine Corps in his ca­pacity as a doctor. He couldn't say much but managed to get in a few pictures of some South Sea beauties. Incidentally. I had a visit with Father Duffy, lieutenant, U.S. Navy, diaplain. He dropped in on his way out. John "Judge** Carberiy, seaman, first class, returned from the 
U.S. Na\'y Muscle School (Physical Education, to you) and is again stationed at San IHego. 
A few days before Christmas I received a call from Joseph Ingersoll Kane, formerly of Pontiac, III., but more recently of Los Angeles. Joe had been commandeered by the government and has been spending his time in England as an expert showing the Englishmen how to use radar in airplanes. All I could get out of Joe was that radar worked fine in the new Mosquito bombers and that he didn't like flying the Atlantic even though he had made mere than a few trips. 

AVilliam J. Cook, of the class of 1913. and. incidentally, the man who introduced Bonnie Rockne to Bock at Cedar Point the summer that D orais and Rock decided to make the forward pass workable, recently married. Bill's address is 422 W. 79th St. Los Angeles 3. 
I received a call from William Paal McCai­lough. He tells me that the O'TooIe family is well represented in the Army. Members of our class will recall Jim O'Toole, who is now the Honorable James O'TooIe, judge of the County Court, Pittsburgh. Of the seven O'TooIe brothers who attended Notre Dame, five of them are in the ser\-ic& Jim and his brother. Didc, who is now a doctor, are the only two remaining in ci­vilian life. When they start talking about the five Sullivan brothers you might mention the seven O'TooIes. 
Ed Donnelly and his son enlisted; however, Ed's son is carrying on in the South Pacific while Ed has been discharged and is now manu­facturing airplanes at Korthrup in Inglewood, Calif. 
New address: Capt. John L. Mnimaker, Sta. No. 6, AMEW, APO 606, c/o P.M., Miami, Fla. 
1921 
Dui W. D«tr. !€•• Tbralwd IWiPtr, Ctordaad, O. 

John Callan, Franklin, Pa., was recently com­missioned a second lieutenant in graduation cere­monies of the Adjutant General's OCS, Fort Washington, Md. 
1922 
Gerald Ailie, 19 DorkinK Road. ester, K. T. 
From Kid Ashe: 
Capt. Charies "Bed" Crowley of the Army Air C^rps has returned to the U.S. after 16 months duty overseas, most of the time having been spent in New Guinea on air corps intelligence work. A letter was received from "Chuck" or "Red'* (as you like it), written Dec. 9 from the Oliver General Hospital. Augusta, Ga., vhere he was "shaking oflT* a siege of dengue fever and dysentery. Chuck expected to be in diape to spend Christmas with his family in Dedham. Mass. lliereafter, he expected to report back to Augusta for a physical check-up before gettinsr an assignment. 
Harold McKee, who was editor-in-chief of the 1922 "Dome,** is still going strong in the firm — Wdnberg and McKee, of Chicago. The firm ape­cializes in compiling catalogues for mill jobbers. 
Hank Anderson scores again. As co-coach of the famous Oiicago Bears, Hunk has nuraed his pro footballers to another world championship. 
Congratulations! 
CIcte Lynch visited his old home in Meriden, Conn., during the Christmas holidays- Clete says business is so good that the customers line np just as they do at the butcher shops when beef is obtainable. 
The * furniture magnate of Natchez, Miss, Ed­die Byrne, was expected in Chicago in mid-January to view the latest furniture showings. 
When he came to the campus on Jan- 22 for a meeting of the alumni board, John Balfc, '20, brought word that Bill Murphy had been elected treasurer of Joseph P. Day. large New York City real estate firm with offices in the Chr>'sler BIdg. 
Bill Powers operates a drug store in Los Ange'es, according to his brother. Father Maurice Powers, C.S.C., '33, now a chaplain in the Army. An­other brother. Ed, '39. finished in law at George­town in 1942 and is now one of J. Edgar Hoov­er's special agents. A niece. Mary Jane Powers, is a St. Mao'*s freshman­
 H. Castner, 26 Hoyt Ave.. New 1923 Paol 
Canaan, Conn. 
The class secretary has arisen, and he prom­ises better things for the future. The war. Spike Flinn and the December "Alumnus'* combined to stir up action in Connecticut's leading insur­ance office. 
Spike. Paul says, is with the Army amphibian engineers, on duty in the Pacific area. His ad­dress is: Cpl. Neil Flinn. 36250442, Co. D, 593rd EASR. APO 565, c/o P.M., S.F. Spike would particularly like to hear from Bill Voss and Ed Shea, and other members of the class are also cordially invited to take pen in hand for the sake of the Superior. Wis., corporal. 
Three members of the class (Neil Flinn, Major John Flynn and Father John Dnffy) are in mili­tary service, according to Paul's records, and one (Dan Lynch) is overseas with the American Red Cross­
"More power to these four men who are car-
Dcmiel D. Lynch* '23 Asnstont Field Director, American Red Cross, in Hawaii 

rying the 'class colors' in the present war, as a number of us did a quarter of a century ago in World "War I," Paul writes. "Anyone knowing of other members with the colors, please report to me. And let's ALL write to them.*' 
It need hardly be added that special prayers are in order for Father DnCTy, an Army chaplain since 1933, who was taken captive at the fall of the Philippines nearly two years ago, and has been a Jap prisoner ever since. Father's parents, of Lafayette, Ind., received from him late in 1943 a printed form postcard on which he said that he was in fair health. That ^vas the parents* first word from him in more than a year. 
As a member of the class of '23, Father Daffy was a C.S.C. seminarian. He later joined the diocese of Toledo, O-, and served in that diocese until he became a chaplain. 
Paul recently heard from Bill FitzKeraId» who 
had resigned as judge of the sixth judicial circuit 
of Indiana to become a partner in the law firm 
of Darby and Fitzgerald, Citizens Bank Bldg., 
Bvansville, Ind-, and from John Montasue, Chi­
cago, who is chief of the "Chicago Tribune" 
automotive department, covering Michigan, In­
diana. Ohio and western Pennsylvania.. There "will be Montague news, via Castner, in the next issue. Order your copy now. 
A Canadian scout got word to Connecticut that Bill Gilchrist is chief executive of a Toron­to advertising firm and resides at GO Garfield Ave., Toronto, Ont-, Canada. 
And finally a direct quote: "To bring the Castner history up to date — I live in New Canaan, Conn., at 26 Hoyt St. The family is fine — Paul, Jr., agad 13, is now 5 ft, 11 in.; he met Frank Leahy at the Army game and got quite a sizing up by our able coach. Peter is 10, but not quite of the giant proportions of his brother. I am district agent in charge of Fair­field County for the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company, with offices in Bridgeport and Stamford.** 
Castner has a New Year's resolution to con­tribute *23 news regularly in 1944. Pass some ammunition to him. Quick. 
1924 
J. F. Hayes, 393 7th Ave.. Room 1515, New York Citr. 
Now that Citizen Castner has joined the guild of active class secretaries, there may be hope for the distinguished citizen who, from one of New Canaan's suburbs, represents the class of '24. Boy, needle Mr. Hayes! 
I f James F. is looking for encouragement from a classmate, here it is. Vernon E. "Tex" Rickard. 1620 N. Vista St., Hollywood 46, Calif., who has been "missing" practically as long as Scallan*s ex-roommate — we wouldn't like to say just how long Scallan himself has been "missing** — checked in on Dec. 16 with an ele­gant letter. Tex is still in the movies, appearing in some 200 of 'em a year, and doing very well. He had flattering news of Steve Bagams, foot­ball sensation of the Coast as the star of the San Diego Bombers, whose combined football ability and personality have made him a general favorite. 
Tex wanted news of Bnd Stillman* Walt Bforan. John Hurley, Joe Ryan, John Dore, Ed McLaagh­lin. Bob Rink and Frank McGee, "and others too numerous to mention." He had seen the Army's Capt. Jack Roach, late of Appleton, ^Vis.. and the class of *27, who is doing a big job in trans­portation on the West Coast,,both for the Army and essentia! industry. Tex spoke of other West . Coasters: Frank Wallace, big-time writer for 
LONG IS HONORED 
Capt. John P. Lonsr, '24» of the United State Marines, now scrr­ins in the South Pacific, has been awarded a Soldier's Medal by the Army for having rescued a soldier from drowning. At the risk of his own life, John placed his life belt 
on the man and, in the face of an ebbing tide, swam to shore with him. 
The "Alumnus" was pleased to receive the news about Capt. Long from John P. McGoorty, '24, attorney at 19 S. La Salle St., Chicago. 

the movies. Gene Kennedy, Judge Al Scott and Lt- (sg) Nick Lukats who was at the University of California, Berkeley. 
The "Pittsburgh Fost-Gazette** on Jan. 1 car­ried a feature picture of the Hogh Bibles — father, mother, four sons and one daughter, grandfather and aunt- The occasion was Hugh's installation as judge of the orphans* court on Dec, 31. 
Lt. Col. Bob Riordan. stationed at Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind., for the past three years, is anticipating a change »to field duty. The colonel and his lady are, as you may recall, the parents of nine children. 
1925 Jaim P. Hnrier, 2985 Brookdak Bsad. Toledo, O. 
Lt. Comdr. Jim Crowley is now permanently attached to Admiral Halsey's staff and is welfare and recreation officer for all Army, Navy and Marine men in the South Pacific. 
1926 
Victor F. Lemiiicr, B.K tCl, ItmwMi. 
From Vic Lemmer: 
I had a letter from Arthur J. Bidwill. 1403 Bonnie Brae, River Forest, lit Art is a memlier of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois. He has invited me to visit him the next time I am in Chicago, and the "Bonnie Brae" soimds inviting. Art has promised to write me a letter of information for the next issue of the "Ahnn-
Fatlier Bemie Coaiiilin, of St. Paul. IGnn., never fails in writing to me at least once a year. I always remember Father Bemie as bdnff very faithful to track and the football team, and also faithful to the basement chapel. 
A holiday Erecting from Vince SoinMl, Con­nersville. Pa., indicates that in his familr there are his wife, Frances, and the youngsters, Kancr and Joe. I often think of the swell time we had in Vince's town when we traveled there with the Notre Dame Glee Club. We also sang at Bames­boro. Pa., where Leonard Bams lives. Len and Vince were great pals. 
Did you ever hear of the "B.H.Ij." dub when yon were at Notre Dame? Well, there was sndi a club unbeknown to the University. It fonslitod of three would-be accountants of Bnlher "Zip": Art Haley, Len Bnnu. and the secretary of the class of 1$2S. We senerally did our together, but aomdiow or other we never sot tkm same srades. Haley and T«emmrr still haw* a gold foontain pen and pendl with the aaa* of the dub engraved thereon. They were tlM itft of Len. 
Had a letter from Kaik Nairn of the das* of 1924. He told me that one of Uie last tiMS tm saw a Notre Dame man was tha day he had ooa in court. Ton know that Hark is on* of tiw A ^ trict judges in Dofaith. Minn., dected in U3 t and re.eleeted last faU. Hark was horn in Iramraod but reared in Gilbert, Wno. We had him sha a speech to the youth, in Ironmod some time aaob and he made his usual wonderful impresriop-
JA. Jay K. Haseaich, VSSK, wrote that h* is still located at the Shelton Hotel, New Taxk aty. 
Jim Acautiott wrote that the class of UZC raised in 1943 the sum of $2,070 for the GB ­tenary fund. We should at least donbla Oil amount in 1944, so, members of the dasa. please send your extra donations to the Alonmi OSee as soon as convenient. Our goal for 1944 dHMdd be $5,000 from the class of '26. 
Letters from members of the class of 1926 will be welcomed by the secretaiy-I have wrltlean to a ntmiber of men, and most of them cBd not even bother to reply to the letters. 1 ^ oSee oAto spends an entire day on Notre Dame IMMUMM, so your cooperation win he appredated. A Aart note at least will help me. 
Vic Lemner's request of some months ago fi­nally caught up with S/Sct. Den Hai^in but at this address: Co. B, 131 Engr. Regt (C), AFO 433, cfo P.BL, SJF. In a letter to Art nder on Jan. 23 Don said in part: ". . . I've seexk qoite a lot of these romantic South Sea islands- If the word were 'rheumatic' it would he closer to . the truth. So far I've been in Caledonia, Gaodal­canal, Rendova, Hunda, Kolombangara. . . . and a few others. . . . We've had our share of ^sits from Tojo and I've become quite ad^t at hittinff that foxhole. . • . 
" It has actually been six ntonths since Fve seen a white woman. . . . Had two hot shaves on the boat coming up here, the first in several months. Never thougjit I'd see the day when hot water would be a luxury. . . . Had a dumee to come back on the 'over 38* provision but passed it up. . . . 
**... ! think this life has added 10 years to mine. At least, it sure has streamlined me. Ckn't keep size 34 (waist) up any longer .. . 32 fits now. .. . I don't know whether I mentioned in my last letter to you that I was in a combat engineering outfit. Started ont in the Q.lE.'s Imt was transferred upon coming overseas and I like it fine. Swell hundi of tods. . . . Say bello to our mutual friends." 
December brons^t a letter from Chack RBI— i in response to one of July 13 which had can^t up with him on NOT. 24. The fdlowing excerpts from it will speak for themselTes: 
"Unfortunately, the *propose^ leave I referred to in my letter became a trip to Sidly and Italj, and I'm still awaiting a real bed and a deeent meal. As you know, this is the rainy season here and we have onr beds on the ground with a ground sheet and one blanket below and two over. This is a rather sketchy and makeshift ap­rangCToent. eqpeciallr when the rain brings yoa a cold bath without the diance to remore yoar clothes. For food we have *hull7* or stew, hard­tack and the ever-presoit tea. Our clothes are pattered with mud. our shoes and aocka are soaked from dawn to dawn, and evezythins co ^ ' 
bines to make a man uncomfortable and morose. Still, with all the misery of war conditions, we enjoy ourselves and are happy planning for that day when we return to 'Ci%-\-ie Street.* 
'*. . . you don't know how nice it was to hear about you and the other lads of '26. I sat there repeating over and over the names of Bemie WinBcrter, Jerry Hayes, Art Haley and the rest, and picturing them as I used to know them, and recallinE little things about them and old 
N.D. Your letter has given me a whole hour of mental reunion v.-ith the boys and life back home and has afforded me material for mental remi­niscing for many lonely nights to come. 
"Please give my best to every one. Bill. . . . I had a lad of five (whom I haven't seen for four years) and a wife who is in England, — a nurs­ing sister and Meftenant.* . . ." 

Those bits ought to bring out many an unused '26 pen for the sake of giving a classmate many another 'lift.' The addi-ess: D27064-Cpl. C. H. Guinon, Hq. 14 Cdn. Army Tank Regt., (The Calgary Regt. (Tank) CAC), Cdn. Army Over­seas, Central Med. Forces. 
William R. Barr is now to be reached at Box 21, Chalmers. Ind-, the old stand. Bud was given a medical discharge after long ser\"ice with the 
U.S. Army in India and China, and we're hoping to have for the next issue of the "Alumnus" some details of his experiences in the Orient. 
Father Cniddick, prefect of religion, had a delightful note from Lt. Leo J. Cantwell* U.S.N. Activity No. 1, Navy No. 138. c/o Fleet P.O., 
N.Y.C. "Leo had been at the one base for nearly a year and, when he wrote, had associated with him three other Notre Dame officers of later classes: Hobie - Shean, Bill Lynch and Frank Qninn. 
"Father Ireland [chaplain] has turned over to me many copies of the 'Bulletin,' the first I have seen since my graduation, and their appearance after so long a time brings back many happy memories, I am pained by the thoughts of the transformation which the war years must have brought about at Notre Dame, but proud to hear that she is doing so prominent a job in the preparation of mlUtsry personnel." 
'"Hde," advertising magazine, carried in* its Jan. 15 issue a prominent story on the plans of Hallicraflers, Chicago, world's largest exclusi^-e manufacturer of short wave radio communica­tions, to enter the consumer market after the war. Hallicrafters is owned by Ray Durst and William J. l^IIi^n and their wives. (3Ir. Hal­ligan's son, Bob^ is a former Notre Dame stu­dent). 
"Under the impetus of war production," 'Tide' says, "the 10-year-old radio communications equipment manufacturer has boosted its pro­duction from $2,000,000 to §34,300,000 annually, expanded its one Chicago plant to seven. Addi­tionally, it has a backlog of S20.000.000 in gov­ernment orders." 
Bemie Wincerter, in South Bend with the Bendix Aviation Corp. for nigh unto two years, is in the process of reestablishing himself and his -wife, Pat, and son, Johnny, in the old New Jersey haunts. Wink's work took him to the East so much that his company decided that it would be the wiser part to have him reside there-
Jim Kellcilian, Chicrgo, was the author of "Aquinas Knew What Money Is." one of the leading articles in the Nov. 27 issue of "Amer­ica." Jim wrote regarding money in its national and international aspects, calling up a wide ex­perience in financial public relations Eer\*ice and as financial counsel to large corporations. 
 K. B«hnd, Statton WGK. 4M 
1927 
J«Mph 
N. WcUffan Art*, CUcat*, ID. 
Charles W. "Pinky" Martin was, at the latest report, club director of the NCCS, 303 Wythe St., Petersburg, Va. 
John Carton is manager of the U.S. Employ­ment Service in Port Wayne, Ind. 

John Lemmer, '18. secretary and superinten­dent of schools in Escanaba. Mich., sends word that "Joe Boland was the principal speaker at the football banquet in Escanaba, Mich., honor­ing the St. Joseph and Escanaba high school football teams. His rebroadcast of the Notre Dame-Great Lakes game was a masterpiece." 
1928 
LmUs P. BocUcy, 4461 MacArtfuir BM^ Washinrton, D. C 

From Ixiu Buckley: 
A letter was received from Father JUa He-Shane, S^., just a few days too late to make the deadh'ne for the December "Alumnus." Father Jim is giving missions and retreats. His address is Jesuit Mission Band, St. Louis Uni­versity, St. Louis. He mentioned that Jelm Cai^ roll of Springfield, 111., who joined the Seabees a short while ago. was raised to the rank of lieutenant commander. John ran a constraction company in Springfield prior to his entry into 
military ser\'ice. 
Roscoe Bonjean is in Springfield, HI., and was last seen by Father McShane while attending a Forum lecture. Father Jim reports that Ancela Galdabini introduced him to the Pfister Inndies in Milwaukee. 
Vince Walsh and Father McShane got together at the Northwestern game in Chicago. VInee sai-i Joe Nelson is U.S. tax collector in Decatur, 111., and Kirhy Scfaaeffer is in Springfield. Vinee sees Bill Kirwan in Iowa City each year. Bill Hanley Hnrphy last wrote to Walsh from Scott Field. Thanks, Father McShane, for the report on fellows whom we have not heard from in 
. some time. I hope that some of ns '28ers will have the opportunity to attend one of your mis­sions. Let us hear from you again soon. 
Bill Jones recently reigned from the OPA to become executive assistant to Judge HaroM Stephens, chairman of the Committee for the Exchange of American and British Patents. 
I transferred in December from the Sod«] Security Board to the War Production Board as a labor economist in the Office of Manpower Requirements. I am labor consultant for A e printing and publishing industry and for the container industry. In my spare moments I tetttb graduate classes at Catholic Universib^ in the School of Social Sdences. 
My fellow class secretary. Captain Jae Mc-Xamara, who is in the Office of the Adjutant General in Washington, inquired the other day as to how I managed to get letters from the '28 men for this column. On the basis of my record in the past few issues, Z am the one who needs advice on this matter. Please follow Father He­Shane's example and send along some news for the next issue. The deadline is March 15. llianki. 
Latest addresses: Capt. Thomas F. Bawlrfl­hans, APO 629. 1st Transport Group, c/o P.M., 
N. Y. C ; Lt- Fred Roiz. 935 Bank of America BIdg., San Diego 1, Calif­
 Joseph P. McNaaara, U M IT. 

1929 
Capt. 
CMrt Haue Rd., AribwtMi, Ta. 

Father Kemdt Healy sent word to the Alumni Office that Dr. Jim Tobin, with the Army in India, had met up with Father Larty Gmacrf a 
C.S.C. missionary there, according to recent word from the latter. 
Joe Gastreidi. Corpus Christi. Texas, was re> cently commissioned a second lieutenant at graduation exercises of the Adjutant General's School, Fort Washington, Md. And Jim Roy is a new (jg) lieutenant in the Na\'y according to word from the Boston Office of Naval Officer Procurement. 
Jim Gallagher is now vice-president and gen­eral manager of the Chicago Cubs and, in addi­tion, retains his title as general manager. His election to his new jobs was announced in C!hi­cago in late January. 
1930 
Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. St., 
 Broad Philadelphia, Pa. 
From Harold Dake; 
Those little reminders of another deadline to meet seem to come all too frequently — especial­ly in view of the few letters and cards arriving from members of the class. 
Anyway, here goes the first report of '44 with a fervent hope that before another years rolls around we can start preparations for our all-important '45 reunion. 
A welcome letter from Jim Sullivan* the Royal Oak undertaker, is very interesting. It reads: 

"My old roommate Mack Trorobley was com­missioned a lieutenant (jg) in the Navy last May. However, he did not receive his orders nntil this fall. He is now at Quonset Point. R. I>. for his indoctrination course- He is married and has two fine little daughters. 
"Tom Front is still in Detroit managing the Sears farm store. He has two daughters and two sons. Tom was very busy this summer with a super victory garden. He is also in the chicken business, in a small way. 
**Kari Brennan was in town this summer vis­iting his brother, John, '27. who is now a Royal Oaker. Carl is still making money for the Grant Stores, his latest store being at Madison, Wis. 
"Joe McCabe gave up the linoleum game to be an officer for the Navy over a year ago. I un­derstand from Frost that he is now in charge of a vessel with a complement of about 300 men. 
''Badcy Slack was recently given a medical dis­charge from the Army, having been in about si:c months. I understand that he is now back in Detroit. Joe Kelliran, who formerly lived at Clint, is now living in Birmingham. Mich., and is employed at the Westinghonse Naval Ord­nance plant. 
**BiU Beanme is still in Detroit, teaching in the Detroit school system. I saw Jade Stackpoole recently at an N.D. meeting. He is an attorney with the Michigan Unemployment Commission. 
"I am married and have two swell sons. '^^I­liam John is three and John Edward is 0ght months. I am still in the funeral business and doing business in a fine new Funeral Home which .was built In 1939." 
llianks, Jim. for a swell job of reporting — let ns hear from you more often. 
Former, basdttller Johnny Horan came through in fine style with the following: 
- "Made a business trip through the East a year ago last spring and was lucky enough to estab­lish contact with a number of the old gang. 
"On my initial call at our New Toric office who should I enconnter directly in front ol the boild­
•ng ratranee but Pat Fiantenk I visited with 
Pat. a swell guy, and his charminff wife. He ori^nally hailed from Dowa^ac. Hich., and in New York was doing advertising work for one of the dailies. Pat's brother carried the mail for the Army football team not so Ions aso. My last information on Pat was that he entered the Army late in April or early in May of this year. 
"Ttyjnff to find a Kelly in Brooklyn rivals the needle in the haystack. On my last night in New York, I succeeded in locating Joe Kelly and we had a good old-fashioned session. Joe and I used to handle the Sorin Hall mail (nice work If you could collect for it — Harry Sytretter knows). I hope Joe sees this as I would like to know all about their first baby they were then expecting shortly. His wife, Edie, whom I did not have the pleasure of meeting, must be tops in view of the many nice things I subsequently heard about her. Joe was a pedagogue in a Queens high school. 
"In Newark, I had lunch with Dr. Backy O'Connor, my Sorin sub neighbor and bell ring­ing assistant. Pete Qninn completed the three­some. Our medic was a very busy man — a good sign. Also talked to Sam CoUmsso on the tele­phone. 
"In Philly, I moved right in on Harry Francis in Paoli, taking up briefly where we left off some 12 years prior. As always, Harry was the perfect host I hope he, too, sees this as I would certainly like to hear from him and, better by far, to see him. 
"Finally, in Pittsburgh, I spent the better part of a day in the company of Hugh Gallagher and his lovely wife, Vange. In the course of the day, I saw Fritz Wilson and Bill MagmralL 
"On at least two past summers I dropped in on Frank Carran at the Curran Bros, elevator and mill in Minocqua, Wis., and while in that same area five or six years ago I brought a cash customer into Art Dorwin*s shoe and clothing store. I would say Art hadn't changed much, if any. 
"I do not know as much as I should about 
•what goes on locally and currently among the *30s. I believe Jim I«ahy is engaged in defense work. I know he is married and has a daughter. Harold Simpson, also of Oak Park, is happily married; has, I believe, four children; and I un­derstand is doing well as head of his own com­pany producing commercial stock and poultry feeds. Didc Savage is a bowling alleys proprietor on Chicago's near north side. Jf^n Blahoney is doing well in the legal profession. Likewise. Tom Parcrll has been doing very well in one of our leading bank and trust companies. £d Feehery, my fellow outfielder in the old days, is a grain broker, and I am sure he has at least two children. 
•*Tom Kerrigan and I finished our law together at DePaul here and he has done right nicely in that game, with a lot of real estate thrown in. Assistant State Attorney Red McCarthy was as­sociated with Tom. The Al Ko'ski's are exp-ctinir their first child and. since the Army called but did not choose him. he is still doing a fine job 
•with our company here as an adjuster. A late flash has it that Hanr Bossdier, local barrister and past exalted ruler of the Oak Park lodge of the Elks, has entered the NaiT­
"As for myself, Corinne and I are pretty proud of our two children. Donna's birthday, her second, coincided with the Seahawk game and between her par^ and Bill Stem, I was in a lather. Jack is going on nine months. I'm just a few days shy of nine years service •with the Allstate Insurance Company and am home oflice suiiervisor of our eastern branch claim ' depart­ments. 
"By the way. in the conrse of discosston, Hany Francis and I were both wondering about J M Palermo. Will Joe or someone else adviaa? A friend of mine in the Army told me 1M eixcoiin'* tered Datdi Johnson, also in the Army.** 
Hianks again to both Jim SvOiTaa and J<lmiy Moraa for the "lift." How about some HHV* of you fellows comin* through? 
Joe Abbott, assistant personnel manager of the Federal Telephone and Radio Corp.. East New­ark. N. J., was on the campus on Jan. 14 and 15 to interview senior engineers with regard to employment by his company and associated com­panies (I T & T organization). Joe employed six Notre Dame engineers when he was at Notre Dame in late 1042, and five of them are still with the organization. 
In professional meetings in the area Joe sees John O'Donnetl, who is personnel manager of the Bendix plant in Bendix, N. J. 
John Nanovie, until recently editor of the de­tective and adventure group at Street and Smith, N.Y.C., has joined the publicity staff of Arthur Kudner, Inc.. advertising agency, also of N.Y.C. 
At the latest report. Capt. Norman D. Bradley was at the Marine Air Base, Cherry Point, N. C 
Latest address: Lt. Cmdr. Donald W. Greatly (an M.D. and flight surgeon). Naval Air Experi­mental Station, Navy Yard. Philadelphia: Pvt. Edward J. Meagher, Hq. Ca, 766th Tank Bn., APO 957, cjo P3I., S.T.: PvL Jack Cannon, 304 Hq. Sq., Atterbury Army Air Field, Columbus. Ind.; Capt. J. Franklin O'Marah, 93rd Supply Sqdn., 31st Air Depot Group, APO 4959, c/o P.M.. N.Y.C. 
1931 
The sad news on John Bergan imme­diately brought to mind that the Class of '31 has thereby lost an outstanding character and one of its best known and most admired members. No one ever came even close to doing as much to keep us ail posted on the doings of the other fellows as did our genial, even-tempered, conscientious friend, John. He was unassuming, likeable, unselfish and from the outset gave continuing evi­dence that he was better than especially qualified for the outstanding job he by acclamation was elected to. As time marches on we are all going to more and more miss John. 
Jack Saunders, '31. 

John Berfcan, secretary o£ the class for the past Rood many years, died suddenly on Dec- 10 from a heart attack. 
A stor>- about him will be found separately in this issue, under "Deaths." And Lt. JmdE Saan­ders, president of the class, e^cpresses in the tele­f;ram above the affection and admiration which the class had for him. 
But the editors of the "Alumnus" could not let this *31 column go to press without addin? their word of appreciation for John's tremendous and effective efforts in behalf of the "Alumnus" and the Alumni Association. John worked al­most ceaselessly for the magazine, and his regu­lar contributions, splendidly written, were as much appreciated by the editors as they wece by the class members. 
His work built solid foundation not only for the masazine but for the entire stnictuie of the Alumni Association. His management ot the If)­year reunion of the class was one of the high­lishts of class activities. 
All those at Notre Dame will join with class members everywhere in praying for the repose of John's soul, remembering that he was most faithful in having Masses said for deceased classmates and for the deceased members of classmates* families. 
T* llw Class af Mil: IW Oam at IMS Mta> witk aerraw A e deatk it jrMr excdfcat dHa wciclaiy — Jsloi Bcrcan. 
We whe knew Mm tmtOr adaUrcd Us I M character. As a chas iccrstarrt Iw tuti m» svnL 
T* ym, mmi ts the •waAcra •! Jaha's faaHr. we extcad aar sympathy. 
G. A. Aihs <ftr »21) 

Lt. Jahn P. Hidwy, in a letter to Fathar Hach O'Dsnnell, said that British and Americans alike enthusiastically sang the Victory Harefa "as they went through the hell of Salerno." He was especially in praise of the Navy men trained at Notre Dame, wha he said, "are bringing Notre Dame along with them" wherever they go. 
Lt. Jim Kearney, stationed in N.Y.C. tor a good many months, is now serving his employer, the U.S. navy, in Washington, DLC. Jim and hit wife were in South Bend for a few days in early December. 
Promotions: Frank Tomasi is now a captain at Bryan Field, Texas, where he is serving in the dental corps. Lynn Vance, South Bend, also a dentist, is" also now a captain — at Fort Sill, Okla. Lt. Jim MeCann. New Rochelle. N. Y., was promoted to captain at Fort Monroe, Va., where he is in the Coast Artillery. Jim entered service as a private in June, 1942. was commis­sioned in January. 1943. and raised to first lieu­tenant last Hay. 
Addresses: Pvt. Alfred E. Gall. 42043787, RcgtI. Hq.—2141st CA (HD) Fort Dawes. Win­throp S2, Mass.; Lt. Gerald F. Conway. Hq. U.aA.F., APO 919, c/o P.M.. S.F. Al was in­ducted last September and had his basic training in Coast Artillery at Fort Dawes. He expected to be sent to military intelligence school for special training. 
I An O U. JSMS K. OdHas. lUS : 17 ^ A Av». Nsif sft. Va. From Jim CoOint: I recently received a fine letter from Capt. (Father) Paal HsEinan from the Southwest Pa­cific area. He is attached to the 542nd Engineer­ing Regiment. APO 403. San FranciscOL 
He states that he likes his work immensely and has been too busy to get lonesome but does surely miss the folks at home. He said his young­er brother. Art, joined the Army on July 3 and became the father of a son on July 13. He ends his letter with. "Things are popping here as yon can guess from the papers. I do my travelling around this huge area by jeep, plane and boat, and enjoy it. Keep up the work on the 'Alum­nus' — it's good to read about the old gang." 
OlSe Pawcts is doing war work in Ghieago and does not expect to be drafted because of the high pirority of his work. His address is 6235 N. Oakley Ave., Chicago. 
Bill Caaatea is still with Cherry Bnrrell Com., but has moved to 184 N. Main St.. Fort Plain. 
N. Y. Charley Qaigley* still in the dru? business in Richmond, Ind.. ^vrites that he misses the fa­miliar faces of some of the salesmen 'whe used to call on him. Amonp them is Jim Bosco who was last heard of as an apprentice seaman at Great Lakes-
Ted Halpin writes that bis brother. Ed. ex. *32. recently was awarded the Air Medal for his work with the Twelfth Air Force in Africa. Ted con­tinues to manage the paint business for duPonts in Indianapolis. 
Lt. Chaiiey Fiss» '33. told me that he had seen Lt. Norm Duke, '33, recently and that the latter is captain of a PT boat.. Charley also mentioned that he saw Lt. Bod Dempsey, '33, in Oshkosh at Christmas, and that he had just returned from a convoy to India. He is in charge of an Armed Guard crew of a merchant ship. Charley has been appointed security officer at Camp Brad­ford. Va. 
Lt. Robert C. (Fete) Strcb sent an announce­ment of the arrival of a son on Jan. 4 in Can­ton, O. This is their first child. Fete is still in Boston in charge of an anti-aircraft unit. 
Father Henry A. Heintskill. C.S.CT now a lieutenant (jg) in the Chaplain Corps, has been detached from this area and ordered to a new aircraft carrier. He expected to visit the campus during the Christmas holidays. His associate here. Father C. M. O'Brien, told me that his brother. EnsiKn Jim O'Brien, '42. was here for a \isit recently. Jim is in an Armed Guard unit on a merchant ship. 
Ensiffn Bill Colemmn, MO. was recently appoint­ed district salvage officer of the Fifth Naval District. 
Jim Walder, Cairo, 111., is now a major. Over­seas for more than a year and a half with tlie 12th American Air Forces. Jim has gone through a ship torpedoing as well as the North African, Sicilian and Italian campaigns. . 
Jim Heehan is an administrative officer with the Social Security Board, S80 Bergen Ave,. Jer­sey City. N. J. Lt, (jg) Don Sullivan reported from Fort Schuyler, Bronx, N. Y., on Jan. 10 that in his battalion in that indoctrination school there were four other Notre Dame men as fol­lows: Lt (jg) William Blind, '32, Englewood, 
N. J,; Ensign B. J. KeflTIcr, '37. Canton, O.; Lt. OK) Robert J. Haley, '36. Fort Wayne, Ind.. and Ensirn Ihomas O'Brien, '44, Suffern, N .Y. TTiere were several others from Notre Dame in other battalions, Don said, and most of the teach­ing staff had gone to the N.D. Midshipman School. 

Lt. (ig) Frank H. Reilly, \\-riting from the Fleet Training Base. San Clementc, Calif., where he was communications officer, said that he had recently heard from Lt. Jim Carmody, 1709 19th St.. N.W.. Washington. D. C, and from Lt. (jg) Joe Petritx, with the Armed Guard in New Orleans. Joe, by the way, was up to the campus territory at Christmas time for a short leave. 
Addresses: Lt. Robert N. Leppert, USNR, Air Transport, Sq. 3, NAS. Olathe, Kans.; Major John H. Scanlonf O-472094. 93rd Signal Bat­talion, APO 183, c^o P.M., Los Angeles. 
7f44 I Are., Ohlcaco, 
1933 

From Ticiic Woods: 
Inasmuch as the restrictions of OPA, WPB and WHC make curtailment of space necessary in the "Alumnus." I will not at this time be able to give my expectant public my long await­ed essay, "A Class Secretary Awaits the IPbst­man's Bins: .or What Happens To The Major In An English Major's Life After He Leaves CM­lege?". but I can sum up all 16 pag^ by Hyiiur that if you gents would like news of othem send me something about yourselves. 
Among Chicago visitors for the Northwestern game late this fall was Roland DaMes «ho stopped up at the office for lunch. He looks grand, is 2B and thinks Roosevelt is a dnch for a fourth term. 
A recent visitor to Chicago was Vic SdMefiwr who came over from Detroit on business. I tried to get him out to the house to get a look at that famous Arctic Circle hair line (I'm not exactly a Wild Root Tonic ad myself) but he had too many customers to see or too many customers had to see him or something, you know I 

Somebody, some place told me Father •^fcl^* Sheedy, CS.C, was visiting in town over the holidays. TTiere is one guy who ought to be able to send me lots of news. For the benefit of any one of you who might have missed the last 17 issues of the "Alumnus," "CJhick" is stationed on the campus as an assistant prefect of reli­gion. 
Coming out of the Blackstone Hotel the other night (where I'd gone to get a telephone slug) X fell in step behind a striking young couple in mink and Navy Blue. When the Blue tamed around to see who was shoving, we smiled, and tears of mutual understanding came into onr eyes. It ^vas Lt. Don Wise (not jg ether, Pll have you know) who gave the best years of his life tr>-ing to write for this column. Don has put on weight in just the right places and really looks like something that Uncle Sammy can pat on the shoulder and say, "This is one of my boys!" Just as Don started to get out his little note book and tell me everything about every classmate in the directory, we heard the clang of a bell and we all had to run to catch the last street car for South Chicago. 
Just in case any of the class of '38 happen to stray into this column I'd like to report that your classmate. Chuck. Beasley from Ridgewood, 
N. J., was just recently made a major in the Marines and is stationed at Camp Pendleton, Calif. 
Phil Ryan wrote in late NovemI)er that he was residing at 474 31st Ave,, San Francisco, "after ser\'ing a stretch in the Army." S/Sgt, Bill Pierce's address: 67th T.S.S., Truax Field, Mad­ison, Wis. Bill has been in phy-ed work in the Army since June. 1942, and is at present assigned to the AAF Training Command radio school. 
Addresses: Leo J. Banes, Spic (R) USNR. Navy Recruiting Station, Kokomo. Ind.: Lt. A* 
C. Botti, 623rd Ord. Auto Base Main. Bn., 3042 Co., APO 600, cfo P.M., N.Y.C. 
Promotions: Tom Kennedy to first lieutenant at Camp Welters, Texas (infantry), and Kay Xaber to major at the Jeffersonville Quartermas­ter Depot, Jeffersonville. Ind-
1934 
Joseph R. Glennon, Jr., BrMk MaMT, Pleasantrine, N. Y. 

From Joe Glennon: 
Early in January I had the opi>ortunity to spend a few happy hours at Notre Dame 
Talked with Ed Kranse who is capably han­dling the coaching of the basketball team; also talked with Walt Kennedy. Both were looking fonvard to seeing many of you fellows in the New York area at the N.Y-U. game. 
Herb Alberts, e.>c. '34, is operating "The Little Folks Shop" at the same spot, north of the Strand. 
Else reports that he has been in Au­burn, K. Y., since 1939 where he is an engineer with the Nnxy Departm^it. Ralph has been mar­ried since 1942. 
Hot flash: Robert M. CahiU is now a senior grade lieutenant. The erstwhile "junior" is still in the South Pacific. 
Father (Chaplain) Ed Marray (not to be con­fused with Lt. Ed Marray* tJSNR, '31) wrote re­cently from the 414th Rgt, APO 104, c^o P.M., Angeles (52), Lots of N.D. boys in' his outfit. Father said, and two of them. Capt. Bill Lieser, '37. and Sgt. Lando Howard, here in 1938-39 as a graduate student, particularly asked to have the "Alumnus" sent to them. Father Murray had also been in communication with CpL John Qainlan» ex. '44, 25th Si)ecial Ser%-ice Co., Fort Lewis, Wash. 
Lt. Of) Dick HcMonagle writes from Fort Schuyler, Bronx,' N. Y., where he has been a staff instructor for the past year, that literally dozens of Notre Dame men, including many classmates, have gone through his establishment. 
"To me. it's been like a constant reunion as every class that's entered here has brought a large quota of former N.D. men," Dick's letter says. 
Oiarlie Jahr was a student in the very first class that Dick taught. Among later '34 men at the station were Harold Desnoyer, Bob Jaynes, John Pavlick, Hugh Fitzgerald and Al Scafani. Of other classes, there were Fred Carideo. Fred Solari, Don Elser, Ed Caldwell, Xordy Hoffmann, Jaiui Scfaroeder, Dave Nash, Don Hickey, Eddie Riaka and George Sobcic, to list only a few as­sorted gents, 
"Each and every one of the N.D. men who have come through. here has made an excellent record for himself." Dick concluded. 
John H. Clark is director of the NCCS club. Vega Baja, Puerto Rico. Jim Morrison, Ham­mond. Ind., wrote in December that he had just received his commission in the USNR. 
Bin Sheridan, *34, and Law '38, assistant U.S. attorney. Ancon. Canal Zone, was in the States in January with his wife and three children for a visit with his family and his wife's family. Bill stopped in the Alumni Office on Jan, 14 for a most enjoyable chat. 
Addresses: Ensign John E. Kiple, care. District Coast Guard Headquarters. Communications (Po3UI Affairs), Keith Bldg., Cleveland: Lt. Jolui De WUde, U.S.N.A.S. Commissary Office. Atlanta, Ga. 
1935 
Franklyn C. Hoduciter, 2118 Trcasore St, New Oileans 19, La. 
From Hocfa: 
Now that our good editor has us placed at the top of the column, and we hope in your minds. how about a batch of mail? The class of '35 has certainly put up a poor showing the past few months. 
We tried in vain to have you tell us where you are and what you are doing, especially if you are in the armed forces. So now we appeal to your wife or family to drop us a card telling us about you. How about it, you wives and par­

. cnts of '35ers — will you give us a helping hand ? Just send word to the name and address at the top of this class column. 
Cards were fewer this year at the Yule season. but we. did hear a word from the following: Lt. Paal Goamieri, Medical Section, Columbus ASF Depot Columbus 15, O., U.S. Army; Lt 

Charles Mahar. who sent a V-Mail Christmas card from the South Pacific, where he continues with the engineers: Martin Hendele and wife, who sent sreetings from Chicaco; Art Conrad and wife, who also sent a card from Chicago. How about letting us know your rank and loca­tion. Art? 
Dr. Vincent Gorman's wife sent a card and a note that Vince is on a LST with the Navy in the South Pacific^ (We would appreciate it if Vince's wife would send us their N.Y.C. address.) 
We joined the staff of the Social Protection Division of the Federal Security Agency last August- Assigned to the state of Louisiana, we have our office in New Orleans and are respon­sible for the Federal Program to repress prosti­tution and control venereal disease in the state. 
Let's hear from you! 
Tom Proctor, late of the OPA, Indianapolis, is now in N.Y.C. as special assistant and legal ad­viser to the president of the Ballard Aircraft Co., Inc.. 331 Madison Ave., N.Y.C. 17, fabrica­tors of plastic and plywood aircraft and parts. Tom and his family are living in Apt. 6B, 139 E. 94th St., N.Y.C. 28. 
Lt. (jg) A. D. McCarthy writes that he was commissioned an ensign in November, 1942. and has been at sea much of the time since. At pres­ent he is an executive officer out of N.Y.C. The newly married Mac (see "Marriages," this issue) met his former roommate. Chuck Morris, in Hartford, Conn., not long ago, and he reports that Chuck is the father of three lovely little girls. 
. Jim Marohn, assistant secretary and assistant treasurer of the Kerotest Mfg. Co., (valves and fittings) Ftttsburgh. was in around Christmas for a long-overdue chat with the Alumni Office staff. Jim was in public accounting in Pitts­burgh until he made his present very desirable connection. He's a new CPA too. 
Sgt. Anthony Knharich. investigator for the War Department in the military district of Washington, D.C., was awarded a good conduct medal on Jan. 1. 
Addresses: James W. Pick, Capt.. M.C., 297th Gen. Hospital. APO 180, cjo P.M., Los Angeles: Lt. (J2) James F. Bowdren. XJ.S.N. Amphibious Base. Solomons Branch. Washington. D. C.: Lt. Lewis C. Crego, 12th Detachment loth S.C.U.. Atlantic Overseas Air Service Command, New­ark Army Base, Newark, N. J. 
 F. HansSdd, 34 Fifth Sb. 

1936 
JoMph 
Pdhmm. N. Y. 

From Joe Mmsfield: 
Since our last contribution to the "Alumnus," we've received not nearly enough in the way of letters. However, Bill Gottsacker did come through with a very nice note the contents of which we'll pass along. 
For the last 17 months. Bill has been doing an important bit of work in the South Pacific. He says that the "Alumnus" affords him many a pleasant moment and makes him look forward to that Tenth Reunion of the class. Naturally, Bill couldn't tell of any of his adventures in the battle zone but we have an idea that when the war is over he'll be able to spin quite a yam. Bill attended a Notre Dame reunion in Hawaii but unfortunately knew none of the fellows. 
Shortly after he arrived back in this country. Bill was married to the former Evelyn Parker, of Brandon, Man., Canada. The ceremony took 
The' Notre Dame Alumnus 
CHARLIE BOYLE HONORED 
Entign Charles J. Boyle, '36, Duluth, Minn., has been awarded the Silver Star Medal "for con­spicuous gallantry daring the in^ vasion of Attn Island." Charlie was on duty as assistant beach master of a U.S. transport daring combat landing operations in Attn. 
"Although subjected to heavy intermittent shelling by enemy artillery and anti-aircraft gun emplacements," the citation said, "Ensign Boyle unwaveringly di­rected the unloading of landing boats upon a beach both hazar­dous and extremely anfavorable for such operations and remained there after the withdrawal of his own ship in order to direct the unloading of supplies from other vessels." 
Charlie is mentioned in this connection in Howard Handle-man's book, "Bridge to Victory," which is a story of the conquest 
of Attn and Kiska. 

place in Seattle. Best wishes. Bill, to you and the new Mrs. Gottsacker. 
If Lou Hansman should chance to read this column, we'd like to pass along Bill's wish that he drop Bill a line soon. His address: Cpl. Wil-Uam H. Gottsacker 16049897; Det. 17th B. Hq. and ABSQ (S) Qm. Sec. APO 935, S.F. 
Lt. John Moran, when last heard from, was stationed outside Norfolk, training for the Armed Guard service. 
Lt. John Desmond is now stationed in England, where he was transferred after seeing a lot of action in Africa and Sicily. We haven't heard from Bernard McCormick or Joe Xeawirth since we bumped into them in Pittsburgh the night before the Pitt.-N.D. game. At that time they were both taking advanced classes at one of the Army schools outside Harrisburg. Andy Me-Mahon is in England. 
Please send a card or letter this way. 
Capt. William J. McCraley. South Bend, was retired by the Army on Dec. 23 after serving in the Medical Corps for one and a half years. He had spent five months in North Africa. 
Harold Gilday is Oallistic supervisor with the Hercules Powder Co., Kcnvil, N. J. 
Pat Tofuri, about to I:e a father for the sec­ond time, wrote to give his permanent address: 23 Garfield Ave., Winchester, Mass. With the American Red Cross and frequently transferred. Pat had run into three of his classmates in naval uniform: George Horiarty, Andy Scafati and Neil Barnett. 
Dick Snooks was recently elected president and treasurer of the Citizens Loan and Savings^ Co., St. Joseph, Mo., succeeding his father who had been president of the company for 20 years and who is now chairman of the board. Dick had heen seeietaqr'treasaicr for the vast Ciiar. years. In St. JoaciA. Dick Is aho pfcndsnt of. the Betail Credit Bmnsii. eo-diainaaa of: tte gaaoUne ration pand, Tiee.diain>an of-flie IM4 Presideiifs Birthdar Ball, athletie ehaliaan of the Junior Chaniber o{ Coamwrae, dviBan np ­resentative of the V.S. Coast Gmud a meaibn of the committee of economic developwtnt and , of the K. of C , Kwanis, Elks and Coontry ehda. 
1937 *!• 
Caii Laacstaa, Little Bock, recently renitnad his position as asastant atomey seneral of Ar­kansas to so to Taeaon, Ariz., for a twcKmonth trainins period as a midshipman in the Navy. . He accompanied his wife and son and daushtar to South Bend where the latter three wHI remain with Mrs. Langstoh's parents while Carl Is In training. 
Lt.' (i() Fnd Cast, 1427 Grove. Alameda. Calif., sends an oecoimt of recent years, in the following newsworthy piece dated Jan. 5: 
"As you probably know, X . have been in the Navy for over a year and a half practically all , of whidi time I hive been with National Alr~ Transport Service. My work has heen in ecaa­munications and It has- really .been venr interest­ing. Mary and daughter, Ginny, have been with me most of the time and are known in Alameda. , Calif., which is my home base. 
"Have met a few N.D. men up here in Seattle. Lt. Camdir. WiOiam M. Hawfccs, B.S. in C.E of 1933, is the engineering oSleer of this squadron; Kabert Cex, '42, is a navigator in this outfit: and the other night while quaffing a cold one I saw a familiar face (also quaffing a cM one) that on closer investigation proved to be none other than Jim HcGalre. '38, of Golden Gloves fame. WOBaai Cnmia, '27. a former foot­baller of N.D., is in the same wing and we often get together. He is also based in Oakland. So we do have a few Notre Damers around. ;Also have met two aeronautical engineers frtan the old school: HOI Uagldik and D M Gay, based at present in Oakland. We used to gather about the radio en masse on Saturday afternoons. 
"Also hear from Geeise Braccer and FhU VHts occasionally. George Is a lieutenant in the Army, in training in Colorado. Phil is on a repair, ship as a naval ensign somewhere In the Fadfic Bi McDcraMtt was awarded some decoration — I be­lieve that it was the Air Medal with an Oak Leaf cluster! He Is a' first lieutenant and navi­gator on a fortress. E. J. Flaaagaa was In Eng­land with a fort outfit the last I heard. B 9 Liescr, at whose wedditig I got my last look at the campus, is a captain in the Medical Corps In the Army. He Is at Camp Horn, Ara-" 
Phil Baadl. looking fitter than any one In sight and feeling just as good, hove into the Alumni Office on Jan. 10 for a welcome talk. Phil is back In Chicago with the Standard Beg­ister Co., of Dayton, O.. serving as register su­pervisor for the Chicago area, of which Sooth. Bend is a part For the time being, Phil's wife and child were remaining in Amboy, HL, but. having put In four months at his job. Phil" was more confident every day that his health wonid soon permit. him to set up permanent family quarters in Chicaga 
' Phil said that "Doll - SaOlTan ha^ an ensign's commission! No details'otherwise. 
Promotions: BUI Skakcspeaie to sergeant at Camp Adair, Ore.; Jahn E. Fas. Sooth.Bead, to major in the Army-
Addresses: SySgt. Jslui N. Cackbr. 354S34«I. 
6th Port Hq., APO 765, c/o P.M., N.Y.C. (a Christmas card from Italy) ; Ensiffn John M. Wallach. 731 A Esplanade Ave., Redondo Beach. Calif. 
1938 Harold A. Williams, 4323 Marblehall Rd., Baltimore, Bid. 
From Hal Williams: 
Ensign Ed Brennan, a consistent and sparkling contributor to our notes, deservedly heads the column with this letter: "To New York, early in 1943, -with wife and son went king-sized, well-dressed John Thomas to take up a more respon­sible post with TWA, in whose employ he has been for four years. Their families and waist­lines growing are Bill Armel and Len Skoglund. Len increases in importjince at Scully Jones Co., while Bill assumes greater proportions with Nubian Paint and Varnish. . . . Frank 0*Laugh­lin, late of Consolidated Coal. Chicago, is now in a Mississippi camp; his wife, Marie, joined him there recently. Jack Hughes, once a 'Chica­go Trib* man, is now a corporal in a Utah camp. .. . A naval torpedo bomber pilot, his younger brother. Ed, ex. *42. mixed it up aplenty last summer in the sieges of Lae and Munda. . . . 
"In the last year and a half wc have seen: Lt, (jc) Bill T-Bone' Mahoney giving aviation cadets the word at the Navy Pre-Flight School, Del Monte, Calif. At the Navy's Recognition Training School, Ohio State University, last win­ter we met 'Bonny* McCormick and Ensign Joe CanpbeP. H e 'Bunny* later was detached to the east coast; Joe was slated for sea duty. Hus­band, father, officer, gentleman Owen Kane, last October was an ensign in the Supply Corps at the Naval Air Station, Norfolk. Our good friend. Ensign Joe Heatherman, '37. was at the same station as a naval aviator. .. . In Washington we bumped into Jade Deane who is with the De­partment of Justice. .. . As for myself. I left the Chicago staff of 'Aero Digest magazine* in Hay, 1942, to join the Navy. After being com­missioned an ensign I began the Cook's tour that took me to San Francisco, Norfolk, and finally to the Naval Air Station. Anacostia, D. C" His address there is PSL-Photolith-Building 150.** 
Thanks, Ed, for another swell letter. How about dropping over to Baltimore for a week­end? 
Now I.t "drndc*' Daly, whose address is Merced Army Air Field, Merced, Calif. Writes Chuck: "Leon Lancaster is a first lieutenant in the Adjutant General's Department and is sta­tioned in San Francisco. .. . Ed Grogan is vnth the Department of Justice, stationed somewhere in Pennsylvania. .. . Ed Uniadie is a captain in the Marines, now stationed in San Diego after a hard time of it in the South Fadfic . . . Joe Nicro is instructing in Washington, D. C. (sic!). .. . I am stationed at Merced, the greatest little post in America, and am in the legal department, handling personal affairs of the men.** Thanks, Chuck. 
CpL Ed Bartnett spent a Saturday afternoon 
•with me recently. His address is: Company G, 3rd Bn.. 1st Bgt. Camp Reynolds, Greenville, Pa. He says he is going overseas shortly and he's doing very interesting work. Ed's father, Edmond Bartnett, city editor of the New York "Son,** in response to a request on my part, fur­nished some Information on Chuck Beasley (See box on this page.) This spring Chuck was home on leave, visiting his wife and son, Charles, at 57 Oldis St, Bochelle Park. N. J. 
Jade Zerkst and his wife spent the week-end on Nov. 27 with us and we were joined by Ens. I^an Hickey, who is now assigned to an T,fyr ship. Jack, on Jan. 4, reported for active duty as an ensign in the USNB at Quonset Point. 
K. I. 
I had a nice letter from Father Anthmy G*­mez, who is doing parish work in New Bedford* Mass. (344 County St. is his address.) He also was kind enough to send me a leaflet missal for Christmas. Had -a Christmas letter from Ba4 Sherwood and his wife, writing from 2203 De­troit St., Flint, Mich. Bud is working in the 
TWO '38 MEN HONORED 
Two members of the clats of '38 have been awarded tbe Silver Star Medal for gallantry in action. They are Major Charlei Beatley of tbe Marines and Rochelle Point, 
N. J., and 2nd Lt. John P. Monte­verde of the Army and Pitts­burgh, Pa. 
Chuck, then a captain, was honored "for conspicuous gallan­try and intrepidity during action against enemy Japanese forces on Guadalcanal, Solomon Islands, on Nov. 7-9, 1942 . . . although pre­viously wounded in a skirmish with the Japanese [he] persisted in continuing his duties, frequent­ly operating in advance positions. .. . His courageous endurance and utter disregard of personal safety were in keeping with the highest traditions of the U.S. Naval Service," 
Chuck was also cited on Oct. 24, 1942, in a letter from Admir­al Halsey, "for bravery and de­votion to duty during engage­ments with the enemy in the Solo­mon Islands .. . under severe enemy fire and in the face of re­peated assaults he performed his duties with great skill and des­patch." 
Chuck returned to the U.S. in early 1943 for advanced courses in Marine training. 
John, member of a tank bat­talion unit, probably saved the life of a fellow soldier in Italy. Climbing from an evacuated tank during an attack, with his clothes and hair on fire, a tank crew member ran toward the enemy lines. Jumping upon the man, John extinguished the fire at the expense of receiving bums on his own hands and neck. After much persuasion he succeeded in hav­ing the shocked man crawl to a less exposed position. 
For his heroism John received the Purple Heart as well as the Silver Star. 
accounting department of Chevrolet-Flint, divi­sion of General Motors Corp., in Flint. And then there was a card from Chailie CalUhan who challenged, "Who says I didn't see the Aimy game — see you next year if I'm not in Japan." Listen. Callahan, you told me that not-to-he-for­gotten Saturday night that you had overslept, missed the game, and yon then asked me who won, and the score. Remember 7 Letter follows. Also had a recent note from John Donnelly, still directing the students* accounts at N.D. 
We received the Christmas cards, from the fol­lowing (these are listed only to show you that some fellows are still kicking around): Chailie Bnwiw, of. Baltimore; Ernie Manrin (6712% Sunset, Hollywood, Calif. — he says he's still building planes at Douglas); Betty, Gait and "Ivan" Vance, of Brooklyn; Annabelle. Bob Mc-Giath and their two children, Michael and Mary­ann (406 S. Lombard Ave., Oak Park. HI.), and Brother "BiU" Bertram Mahoney, O.P., who writes, "The remiss pen pal strikes again. I have no personal news, except that all goes well, and quietly. God willing ordination will come in 1945. I saw Scott Reatdon about a month ago; he is now in Chicago working for the Govern­ment. His younger brother, ex. something, is in his first year of study here at the house" Bill's address is Dominican House of Studies, River Forest, III. 
I've just received a V-mail letter from Major Joe CaUahan, waiting impatiently in Sicily for more action. He says that he received a letter from Chack Sweeney, South Bend, who is await­ing a call from the Army. [And Chuck has three, plus, children too—Eds.) Incidentally, while lis­tening to a New York Giants-Redskins game heard that Chuck was headlinesman for the game. . . . Well, that's about all. Recently we*ve heard from a lot of fellows for the first time in five years. Keep it up. Wonder what ever hap­pened to Arizona Hnrphy and the Kalamazoo twins, Simon and Shells? 
Pierre de la Vergne. killed on May 20. 1943, in a plane crash at Pensacola. Fla-. within a week of receiving his wings and commission in the Naval Air Corps, has been posthumously awarded his ensign's commission, his mother said in New Orleans. De& 15. 
Gc*rve Belanger is now a first sergeant at Camp Haan. Calif. Sgt. Ned Fishwidc is in Italy, having covered North Africa and Sicily in the campaigns there. His brigade, he writes. supported the British in the crossing of Messina Strait and thus had the distinction of taking part in the Invasion of Europe. 
SjStU Danny Farley, South Bend, was post­
humously honored on Jan. 16 when the Air Medal and three Oak Leaf clusters were present­.ed to his mother following the 11 o^:lock Mass in St. Joseph's Church. The awards were in recognition of meritorious achievement on 25 
operational flights which Danny had made. 
Addresses: 2nd Lt. Patrick J. Stillisano, Trans­portation Corps, APO 713. c/o P.M.. S.F.; SjStU Daniel F. Byan, 35257857. 1062nd Sig. Co., 41st Serv. Gp., APO 528, c/o P.M.. N.Y.C. 
Ed Boyle, the father of three, is doing his G-manning these days out in the rugged Butte, Mont., country. In Pittsburgh for a time Ed made the 2,000-mile trek to Butte soon after the Pitt-N.D. game. Denny Emmanuel is a first lieutenant in the Medical Corps at Camp Adair, Ore., Denny finished at Iowa U. in medicine in "42 and did his intemeship at St. Mary's Hospi­tal. Dolnth, Minn. 

1939 KUsu Clly t Kuu, 
Ensiffn Joseph Qngory Hice of the U.S. Mari­time Service thinks he probably is "through for life" with this running business, according to a XJP dispatch in December. Greg said that he now has no facilities for proper training and that by the time the war is over he probably will be too old to make a comeback. 
Commissions: Ensigm Bill Br«an (blimp pilot), at the Lakehurst. N. J., Naval Air Station on Dec. 7: 2nd Lt. John R. Hmrtaock, at the AAF Navigation School, Hondo. Texas, on Oct. 23; 1st Lt. Stmnley J. Weigelt Medical Reser\-e Corps, Army (received M.D. from Yale on Dec 18 and is interne at Hartford Hospital. Hartford, Conn.). 
Having completed his interneship in Cook County Hospital. Chicago, after being gradu­ated from Northwestern University, Dr. Dick Ganser is resident physician in St. Joseph's Hos­pital. South Bend. With his wife and daughter he is residing at 1312 East Third St., Mishawaka-
Capt. Lawrence Thompson was recently gmdu> ated from the Advanced Officers Course at the Cavalry School, Fort Riley, Kans., with the rat­ing of "superior." Larry is troop commander of the reconnaissance troop in the 42nd infantry division, the famed Rainbow Division. 
From his post with the 76th Air Base Sqdn., Hendricks Field, Fla., Clarence T. "Pete" Shee­han continues to send news of '39ers and others. John Jaxtheimer. he says, is an ensign and sta­tioned in the naval supply school at "Wellesley College. Lt. Charlie McCabc, now a flying for­tress pilot, is in advanced training at Ardmore. Okla. Bill Dnnlevy, '30. a corporal in the anti­aircraft, arrived in Australia, Pete reports, Lt. Ed«r-ird J. DeBartolo, *33, completed officer tra!n> ing at Fort Belvoir, Va., and is now with the engineers at Fort duPont, Del. 
Frank Farrcll* in England when he wrote in December, had been promoted to a captaincy. Address: Francis E. Fitzpatrick, 102 Naval Con­struction Bn.. cjo Fleet P.O., S.F. 
1940 
Lt. Kobert G. Sanfoid, MU H. Hair-land ATC , MUwaokK, Wis. 
From Gene Blish, *34. Denver: 

U.S.N.'s Bad O'Fallon is at radio school in Chi­cago. A;C Jack O'Malley flies at Stamford, Texas, with the AAF. In his usual newsy letter. Midship­man A] O'Mcarai who was at N.D.*s Navy school, stowed away a deck-fuH of Navy news for you '40 fellows: He'd met Ed Hennessy, '40. from Chica­go, sporting three oak-leaf clusters and having the distinction of flying the first American homber over Berlin; ran into Bud Teah in the "caf." and Lt. Frank Ciolino, '40. who asked in particular about Tom Tiemey. Al's roommate on Howard's 4th deck was RoIIie O'Helia from Tulsa, a friend of Jerry Donovan's, '40. Jerry O'Dowd is a LC Naval officer; Joe Gerwe, '40. is the skipper of a Navy patrol boat. 
Ensicn Bob Tieman wrote in mid-December from the Pacific area, where he was aboard a na\*y cargo ship, asking that he receive the "Alumnus." 
"Paul Mnllen. '40, of Mt. Lebanon, Fa., who was my best man in 1941. is going great guns out in the South Pacific and is one of the Ma­rine Corps' hottest pilots now." Bob said. "He is an ace. I am hoping to run into the guy soon in my travels out there." 
Addresses: 2nd Lt. John M. PUanki, Judge Advocate branch. Headquarters, Fourth Service Command, Atlanta. Ga.; Ensign Edward H. 
TWO '40 MEN HONORED 
l«t Lt. Paul A. Mullen. '40, • Marine fighter pilot and accredit­ed ace, with at least five Jap Zeroi to his credit, recently wa* awarded the Air Medal, Paul, who completed his second tour of duty in the Solomon Islands campaign, received his award for "meritori­ous achievement in aerial attacks against the enemy" on July 7 and 17 while flying with the "Bucket of Blood" unit. 
Paul was later a member of the "Black Sheep" squadron com­manded by the famous Major Greg Boyington, who had shot down 26 Jap planes before he was reported missing. 
1st Lt. Leo G. Facteau, '40, navigator on a heavy bomber, has received the Distinguished Flying Cross for participation in bombing missions in the South­west Pacfic. Leo navigated the first heavy bomber over Rabaul in the first great raid on that stronghold last fall. His plane scored a direct hit on a transport in that raid. 
Sdiiaetcr. Naval Air StiUian. Bitdeoek. Texas: Set. W«M»n J. bake, 3«3«3490, 340 Boob Graop 
H. 48S Squadron. 0.S. Air Corps, APO S20, efb P.M., N.Y.C: Lt. (St) Jaacs V. Cawfcy, Naval Armed Guard Cmter. South Brooklyn, N. Y. . 
Benuud F. Rita, South Bend, whose engage­ment to Mary Cecilia Schubert was recently an­nounced, was graduated from the AAF 'KaininK Command School. Yale ITniversity. and eonuals­sioned a second lieutenant. 
T/4 Frank HiHacr was, when he wrote on llec. 
10. at the University of California, Berkeley, studying Frendi and Annamese. A Christnas greeting from the class secretary. Lt. Kafctrt CS. Sanfard, 01595148, gave his new address as Hq. 491st Q.M. Bn.. QMBTC, Fort F. E. Warren, Wyo. But there has been nothing since from Robert in Cowboyland. 
A dispatch from the Marine Corps tells that 1st Lt. Maarice Naanaa, member of the "Sght Ball" Squadron, shot down in -October his first enemy aircraft — a Zero, — over Vella LaVells in the northern Solomons. ^Maurice was then completing his third tour of duty in South Pa­cific area, having received his wings at Miami Beach in August, 1942. 
Capt. Paal HeUainth writes from England that Lt. Ted Jadwau, a fighter pilot, did fine work in the North African campaign. Ted was later re­turned to the States and. on Nov. 22, was mar­ried to Jean Trentman. 
New '40 M.D.'s: Bob Frost, who was gradu­ated from the Georgetown ^School of Medicine on Dec. 19, and Laaia CcnnI, who was ditto from Temple on l>ec. 16. Lou was commissioned a lieutenant (jg) in the Navy and is now at the Brooklyn Navy Hospital. Brooklyn. N. Y. 

lOHN HENEBBY. '40. AMD HIS BOMBEB 
Here ore the faraotu Jolin P. Heaabcr. '40, at 2S a Uantaacnt ooloaal ood on* oi the war's leoding ocea in tha Padfie. and hia famons booibor. Ifotrw Dam* do Vie­ioire." lohn is second Irom tho right in th* pictaio. JU <h« right is Folhot JlngmtiM GeorhordL Catholic choploia from the IClwooko* aiAdiecoso. 
1941 
Lt. John W. Patterson, Jr., 5530 Dar­lincton Rd., PittsbnrKh, Pa. 
J<4in W. Patterson, the father, carries on— and very effectively — for Lt. John W., the son. Mr. Patterson keeps in touch with many members of the class and their families and forwards prompt­ly all news coming: into his hands. 
Mrs. Annie S. Powers, Kichmond, Va., wrote recently to Mr. Patterson that her son, Dave, had been promoted to captain in the Marine Corps. Overseas for nearly two ye-ars, Dave served for five months in the Guadalcanal region. 
The class secretary, on a short leave in Ens-land, met up with the notable British heavy­weight fighter, Sgt. Freddie Mills ot the RAF. And found that Freddie is highly regarded in £ng'and as a really worthwhile opponent for Conn or Louis. F^t's comments on Mills were in the form of a letter to Chet Smith, sports editor of the "Pittsburgh Press" and were print­ed in Smith's column "The Village Smithy." 
John Aselape is still a 4F civilian but is doing his big bit as inspector for the "War Department ili Mansfield. O. John and his wife and his new son, Laurence Frederic, live at 130 Blanche St., Mansfield. In his spare minutes, if any, John is assistant manager of the local bowling alleys too. 
Aselaee dope: Jim Curtis was at Fort Sill, Okla.; Bill Bofcan, after 18 months in Panama, was at Hoff General Hos^iital, Santa Barbara, Calif. 
Col. James G. Newland, Hdq. S<in., 71st Ftr. Wing, APO 658, c/o P.M., N.Y.C., wrote from England on Jan. 10 that he hadn't seen any 
N.D. men over there so far, but that he had seen several of 'em, especially on the West Coast of the U.S.A.. before he left. John Flana­can, '30, Newburgh, N -Y., and Jim were to­gether for much of their training. At Hammer Field, Calif., Jim met Lt. Bob Boyle, who roomed two doors from him in Sorin. In that vicinity he also saw Lt. Barney Fcro*, who was then at Camp Pinedale, Fresno. Calif. 
2nd Lt. John L. Boyle is at Camp Adair, Ore., with Btry. C. 347 FA. Bn., APO 91. Jack mar­ried Betty Melander in June, 1943, and he and his wife have their temporary home in Cor\'aIlis, Ore. 
In a note from his home in Chicago, Lt. GeorEc Meltzer said that he had seen Pvt Bill Clark in New York, where Bill is an Army doc­tor. In Chicago George had seen 1st Lt. Jim Behe, who is at the University of Chicago. 
His mother writes that Ensign Frank H. Com-ins can be reached in care ot U.S.S. LST No. 1, cyo Fleet P.O., N.Y.C. Bob Stack was commis­sioned at the AAP Navigation School, Hondo, Texas, in Octoler and was later at Roswell, N. M.. for further training. Herb Kcrslcn was grad­uated in medicine from Iowa TJ. on Dec. 22 and is an interne at Eoper Ho.spital. Charleston, S. C. He's in the Army Medical Reserie. 
Lt (it) Frank Santas was one of the first 
U.S. pilots to down a Jap Zero from a new Hell­cat, according to an AP dispatch from Wash­ington. Frank has three brothers who are also in the armed forces. 
After 20 months on duty in the South Pa­cific. Bill Simiaons came back to the States in October and is now an instructor in the Banana Eiver Naval Air Station. He and his wife can be reached through Bo.'c 24, Melbourne Beach, Fla. 
Promotions: Walt Brodbeck to corporal at Fort Knox, K}-., and Milt Williams to captain in Eng-
GEORGE MELTZER DECORATED 
Wearing the Air Medal with three clutters, the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Purple Heart, Lt. George F. Meltzer, '41, Chicago, is back in this country recovering from injuries suffered in one of his 23 bombing missions over Germany. 
Navigator on Flying Fortress, George twice came back to Eng­land "on a wing and a prayer." Once, over the North Sea, the two star-board engines were put out of action by anti-aircraft fire and the 200 miles remaining had to be made on the two port engines. Another time, anti-aircraft fire hit the gas tank and the plane remained in the air just long enough to reach the coast of Eng­land. George was injured by shell­fire and in putting out a fire aboard the plane. Twice he was given up for dead. 
On the campus on Jan. 20, George was asked about his mi­raculous escapes. He replied sim­ply, "Our Lady was there." Hold­ing up his rosary he said, "It was iivith me on every raid." 
land, where he is •ser\'ing in Army intelligence. Address: 1st Lt. Hosrard Hilles, 386 Bomb Sq., 312 Bomb. Grp.. APO 714. c/o P.M.. S.F. 
Joe Ryan was on Dec 11 commissioned an en­sign at the Naval Air Training Center, Corpus Christi, Texas. And Oscar Hastens recently be­came a second lieutenant at the AAF Training Command School. Pampa. Texas. 
 WinUm E. Scanlon^ PaUie BeU­1942 Prt. 
tions Office, Ft. Sheridan, IIL 
From Scoop Scanlan: 
Notre Dame people I have met lately: 
^VhiIe I was helpinff photographers picture Pvt. Luke Applinff, late of the Chicago White Sox, donning the Army togs at Fort Sheridan's Recruit Reception Center -who should pop but Pvt. Bill Murphy, the Chicago version, who spends his Army hours wrestling clothes. 
I had a date with the dentist and he figured I ought to get my molars polished the GI way, so I had them cleaned by a comely dental hygien­ist who happened to be Frances Dorsey, cousin of Ben Hennessey. She reported that Ben will be graduated from West Point soon. 
"While at home in Portage. I met Dr. C W-Henney, Tom's dad. and Mr. Henney reported that the ex-Sonn haller is still learning TO fly in Mississippi. Also visited Reedsburg. Wis., to say hello to Red Rice's folks. Bed calls an Army air base, Nashville. Tenn-, his home now. Via the Rices I learned that Ed Ostroski, one of our phy-eds, is in Italy. Earlier he wrote that the first man he met on the landing barge which had taken his group to the shores of Africa was the late Jim Hackner. 
Ensign Hackner volunteered for Naval duty shortly after graduation and was killed in action in Italy. He comes from my old home town. La Crosse. Wis. 
At a nearby USO, in Highland Fark, III., I met Vince Scnlly's sister. Joan. The Scullys re­cently moved there from Evanston. Vince was due to be graduated from air school the other day. 
Bed Lonerran is often on the receiving end of calls headed for the Chicago "Tribune"—reports of sports results at Fort Sheridan. And if you tell the Chicago "Sun" how your team makes out the listener is likely to be Martin Downey, who was located at Notre Dame as student and employee from 1926 to 1932. 
Lt. Robert Flannery, 19-year-old member of the Notre Dame class of '46, is still one of our com­pany officers at Fort Sheridan. Top scorer on the Fort Sheridan basketball squad is Bill Sticklen. former Joliet Catholic ace, and more recently an N.D. freshman player. He had 262 points in early January. 
Seems like Christmas should come more often. ITie mail bag would be heavier. Vince Hogan V-mails greetings to all the class from England. And Ensign John Gilbert comes through with this masterpiece, also from England: 
"Been intending to get in touch with you all summer but I've been pretty busy fooling around the beaches in Sicily and Italy- Can't say it was too much fun but it sure was interesting. Just came up here to England recently and I'm afraid not just for the ride! Ran into Bob Hatton, '42. yesterday (Dec. 1), and he had a couple of 'Alumnus' for me to read. You don't realize how much you miss all the old gang till you set over here away from everj-body. But I shouldn't say 'everybody.' I think N.D. '42 was better represented than any other school in the North African theatre. During the summer and fall I saw Sara Boyle, Gene Yeager, Ted Weinfurtner, Dick Green, Tom Cooney* and several others I can't think of right now*. This amphibious force sure caught a lot of our class." 
Cpl. Thomas Powers reports from Camp Pa­trick Henry. Newport News, Va.: 
"Had a GI Christmas at camp—on guard both Christmas and New Year's and every other day in between. Was in charge of the Christmas party, decorated the dayroom with holly and a tree, made some potent punch, sang Christmas carols and rolled out some entertainment. Alter New Year's I got away from camp for the first time since the Army-N.D. game for a three-^lay pass — spent a day in Washington with my brother, John, who is at Fort Meade. Md., and two days in New York with my other brother. Jim. 
"Heard from Frank Lavelle — he's about to go into service. Got Christmas cards from Dom LoGoidice, at Georgetown Med school. Washing­ton. D.C.. and from Pfc. Marty Fitzpatrick, 3209th SCSU. ASTU, Bard Hall, 50 Haven Ave.. New York City. 
"Sorry to hear of Jim Hackner's, Bill Rey­nold's, and Matt Bliller's deaths. Our group is dwindling, isn't it?" 
Our faithful lawTer recorder, Mrs. Lora Lash-brook* provides this resume of the boys from Dean Hanion's department: 
"Christmas mail brought new addresses from several of the '42 lawyers but few reported change of status. Among those telling change of location are: Jim Diver from Oregon to a southern camp; Bill Hogan from Camp Rob­erts, Calif., to Camp Hale. Colo.: Warren Deahl from Camp Hood. Tex., to a station in Florida: and Bob SoUlvan from Nebraska to Fort Bragg. 
"The big news of the month from the *iight­

ins lawyers* was information that Lt. J. J. Barr, USMCf was injured in the battle of Tarawa and is now in the Naval Hospital at Pearl Harbor. Joe's personal report was that he suffers from plain laziness, but more ofUcial sources state that the current outbreak of that ailment was brought on by shells from a Jap gun which lodged in his shoulder (the shells, not the gun). Whatever it is. all of us hope for a speedy and complete re> covery. 
"Alex Tcholis has moved on into Italy with the Allied Military Government outfit to which he has been attached since he arrived overseas sev­eral months ago. The Louis Andersons of South Bend have a baby daughter, Candyce­
"Ernie Timpani v;as in South Bend on a four-day furlough last week, early in January. His time was divided between Notre Dame and the girl friend- Vital statistical analysis says Notre Dame received approximately 30 minutes of Er­nie's furlough. Jim Daner recently reported a change of address from the office of the prose­cutor in Mt. Clemens, Mich., to Fort Sheridan. Jim passed two examinations in one week — the Michigan state bar exam and his Army physical. 
"Lt. Tim Maher wrote on Dec. 29 from a Los Angeles APO. . . . Yeoman Ed Kelly of the Cincinnati Navy Recruiting office was slated to be married about Jan. 15. Jero' Killigrew and Fred Hoover are completing a year*s work at the Navy Business Administration School at Harvard soon and both will be ready for active duty as ensigns in the Na\-y Supply Corps." 
Shortly before press time. SfSgU Paul Neville — notice the advancement to one "rocker," — V-mailed a new address with New York APO accent. 
Christmas time also brought a card from En­sizn Steve Gralikcr, via Corpus Christi. Texas, another from Phil RulHt Navy Public Relations Office at Notre Dame; and a note from my for­mer boss. Lt. Joe Petritz from his naval assign­ment near New Orleans. LI. Eddie Bnener checked in from Camp Maxey, Tex. 
Two members of our class continued to make names for themselves in athletics recently. Steve Juzwik led the Great Lakes football squad in scoring last fall with 44 points and was re­cently transferred to "an eastern base" for ad­vanced training. Ensign Art Pope recently starred for the Abbott Hall Midshipmen basket­ball team which defeated the Dr. Goss Collegians at Chicago. 
S/Sgt. Paul Neville, our faithful correspondent, reported on Jan. 19 from England with this newsy V-mail account: 
"About 35 N.D. men in the ETO attended a joint reunion dinner with men from Minnesota at the Grosvenor House in London on Saturday night. Jan. 15. . . . There were a half dozen *42 Golden Domcrs in attendance. . . . 
"When I arrived at the appointed meeting place. Ensign Johnny Gilbert and S^Sgt. Don McGinley already were swapping yarns. Don is with a bomber intelligence unit and Gil is in the amphibious force. Then Sgt. Carol Pitkin, veteran of 10 months in the ETO. blew in. He is instruct­ing radio combat men at a bomber base. We all got together at one end of a table and dug into the turkey, which was an agreeable surprise. 
"Halfway through the meal Ensign Joe Lane arrived and he too broke bread with us. Emmett Keenan was unable to get away but I expect to see him in London the middle of February. In his last letter Em had reported no word of Joe Hrachovec in almost a year. Well, all the NJ>. men were lined up for picture-taking purposes when a second lieutenant standing beside me, Moore was the name, mentioned that he was '37 and asked my year. Then he said: *I wonder if yoii know Joe Hrachovec?* 
"I nearly fell over, but sure enough, Joe is at a base not 20 miles away and I have a date with him for Saturday night. Other bits of stray in­formation : Tony Donadio is touring England with an all-GI show. Gilbert and Saauty B«yle were at Salerno. Gilbert and Pitkin, I also dis­covered, married their St. Mary's belles." 
Another late letter came from FI<^^ (Shuh) 
Richards, who is announcing the program en­
titled "Encores" via NBC from Station WTIC, 
Hartford, Conn. His communique said in part: 
"Received a letter from Black Joe SalliTaii, 
and it seems this ex-Cavalier is under the pro­
tective wing of Uncle and is stationed at a 
branch of the U. of California. He and Betty 
expect a little sax-tooting Sullivan before many 
moons. From aboard a Dutch ship out on the 
Pacific, my roommate. Lt. Lee Barfcy, reports 
that things are going well and that he has met 
a few of the boys. My other co-resident of 418 
Walsh. Paul Knowles, is still selling life insur­
ance in Green Bay. Wis., where he lives at the 
Y3I.C.A. Lt. Jim O'Longhlin sent a few words 
from the Southwest Pacific and reported that 
things were quite copesthetic among the natives 
there. It wouldn't at all surprise me to hear that 
he had a concession selling saki to the Japs — 
with arsenic 
"I hear quite frequently from Tom Horak who 
seems to be tramping the moors in Merry Olde 
England. Bill Frye keeps me posted on the af­
fairs of the U. of Wisconsin where he's further­
ing his education in science." 
IF IT'S NEWS, "WRITE SCOOP! 
Don Casey was commissioned a second lieu­tenant in the Field Artillery OCS. Fort Sill, Okla., and assigned to remain there on the staff and faculty of the student regiment. Jim Jodon, South Bend, with the AAF in Italy, has been promoted to captain. 
Addresses: Sgt. Leo A. Lanigan, ASN 16078­781, 415 B. Hq. & A.B. Sq.. Laredo Army Air Field. Laredo, Texas; Ensign George L. Sapplitt* Cub 11. Camp Allen, Norfolk (U). Va.; Ensign Robert C. Maddock. 1611 E. Fourth St. Santa Ana. Calif. (Bob is aboard a transport in the Pacific). 
Shortly Iwfore he wcs killed in action Dec. 2, 
Ensign Jim Hackner, La Crosse. Wis., sent a 
letter to his father: Nov. 11. 1943 
"Dear Dad. 
"It has been quite some time since my last letter. Dad. just one of those things I may not explain. Twenty-five years ago. almost to this very hour, you received word that World War I was brought to a close and you tossed away a rifle, went home, married a lady who later be­came my mother. 
"You both told me I squawked and bawled, and sometimes now I have my moments because no matter how tough a man may become because of circumstances, he's still a baby. Today, on Nov. 11, 1943. it's that same old story. Tliis time it's that siiuawky kid. wearing a uniform, far away from his people and there is no peace to­day. 
"The kid went to Mass and Communion today, a short time ago. The kid is strong and healthy, but the kid would like to come home. He hears all sorts of rumors, scuttlebutt in his language, but his father gave him the best of educations so he weighs them. He refers to current stories of the Vatican. He knows, not so much about military and naval tactics, but be knows man cannot fool with his Creator's temples and not have the just hand of the Almighty swing a wicked left. The kid is learning todny, saving . it for tomorrow and all his hopes are based on Faith, without that nothing would seem worth­while. Your loving son." 
Ensign James F. McNnlty, Standard Landing Craft Unit No. 18, cjo Fleet P.O.. S.F., is in the Southwest Fadfic, his father writes 
Chicago. 
T/Sct. Jala A. BcUr, 31071203, Hq. N a Sril Photo Group, APO 520, K.T.G.. has been orcr-; seas for 13 nnrnths and only reemtlr reerived a eitation aecordinsr to his brother. Franl^ 'SS, a lientenant (jff) in the Kavy. No details as to tte; citation. 
CpL DMUU F. Cmmmmn, 5th Air Base Sq., Barksdale Held. I.a. ("not to be. confused witib Lt DmaU IK Cenwn of '42") notes the ab­sence of NJ>. men in his present area. EarBer he saw WA SaOiTaa at Camp Upton, K. T.. and Dan Baack and Gearge Gnaia. *44, at Cha­nute Held. 111. Don is yearning for news tra^ Tany Deaadia^ Bab Banu , Bavcr Brawa and Walt HccUa. 
Prof. Kenricfc, head of the Arehitectore De­partment, reports that Jim Gallaghrr was in the initial attack on Salema At least three *42 men. it appears, were in the battle at Tarawa, and two of them were injured. 2ad Lt. Jae Bair (who appeared prominently in a newsreel of the Tarawa landing) and Pf c Howard Agty* both of the Marines, were the injored. Joe is in' Navy Hospital No. 10, c/o Fleet P.A.. San Fran­cisco, lit Lt. Bcmie McKay of the Marines came through unscathed. 
Sgt. JoMph B. BfcNerthncy, 19022603. Hq. ft Hq.. LAAF, Laredo, Texas; is an instructor in aerial gunnery, having entered the Army on June 10, 1942. Joe writes that Joe. Jr.. arrived on Dec. 28, checking in at a husky 9% pounds. 
Pfc Lea V. Targcan, Jr., is a junitv in nie£­cine at Creighton. Omaha. Znd Lt. UMBM S K Fitzgerald is at the Mountain Home Army Air Base. Mountain Home^ Ida., where he is a meoii­ber of the medical corps. 
The mother of Lt, Walter J. Dead, Jr.* VSM.C Ordnance Co.. 4th Base Depot. 1st M.JLC^ C/O Fleet P.O.. S.F., writes that "somewhere in the South Pacific" Walt was able to assist at mid­night Mass on Christmas in a new chapel hnilt of native wood. He said that almost all at Mass received Holy Communion. 
Bob Caartney is in the Army OCS.. Mlaad' Beach. Fla. 2ad Lt. Tarn Hayer is overseas and his brother, Prt. Bayawad F., ex. '40, is. at­tending intelligence sdiool at Camp Qdlan. Calif, lat Lt. Jae SaUiTaa, N.Y.C, was recently at a fighter station in England taking* special­ized course :n advanced aerial combat taetics;. Joe joined the RCAF at Montreal in August. 1941. and had his early flight training there. He transferred to the U.S. AAF last SH>tem­ber. He has flown on offensive operations over Europe. 
lA^ n Babert Leacrgan, Sparta DcfartaMat* IT^ d The CUcaca Tribaae, CUcag«w IB. Easicn Edward a BMwy, 1733 Ira«Mia . Ave . Detroit* Micb. 
(Since Ed Biary is out of the coantty, and hence out of ea ^ communication ranges we asked Bed Laacrgaa to help him oat. Bed. as alwayi^ came through and, we're sure, will continue to do so.—Eds.) 
From Bed Loaergaa: I wcm't be meeting as many of the boys as Ed Baacy did. so I will depend upon your coop­eration in writing up the news. Any items yoa can send in will be appredated, not only by ne , but by the entire class, who are anxioas to know-where their friends are and what they are doing; 
A letter from Jaba Wasd. stati<med in the Army Air Corps at Phoenix, Arix., had this to say: 
"I entered the Air Corps last TAruary and went to Florida for my basic. I met BiB Stov­wart; he was a physical education instnietor there. George Bcberdy was also there, restiaff. 
up before fae entered JefTerson Medical school. I then was sent tip to New York for three weeks of schoolinip. While I was there I met Tom Cttoney who is now in Italy- Also 'the Pope/ and Bedter were on hand, l^en I was shipped to Jefferson Barracks, where I ran into Cpl. Red Oliver. I got in touch with Bill Wamick and had a grand time talldne over old times. He said he sees Dan Marphy every now and then. 
"From here I was transferred to Oshkosh. "Wis-, and this was a fine camp. From here I mored to Santa Maria, Calif., for my primary flying-Ovren McCMdricJc was out there, in the same outfit. Bill Eariey was out there, in bombardier school; he's shipped out by now. My last trans­fer brought me to Thunderbird Field near Phoenix." 
Eddy Ryan is in the Loyola Medical school In Chicago and is really studying hard. Among his classmates are Sol Lapulnsa^ Sam Rowbottomt Jolin Reardon, Dick Bums and Dick Bowdie. Eddy was as surprised as I was to bear of Sarry Wright's marriage in Chicago. 
Had a short chat with Lou Rymkns who was in Chicago with the Washington Redskins for the championship game. Lou likes pro ball. The Washington newspaper men who were up in the office said that Lou was one of the best liked players on the squad. Saw Wally Zicmba up in the Northwestern -pressbox; he likes coaching down at school. At Notre Dame. Bob O'Toole, Kev's brother, told me that Kev had left the coast with some Blarine replacement outfit- Kev is an officer with those "Leathernecks." 
Still see a good deal of Scoop Scanlan, *42. Until Scanlan moved in, Fort Sheridan was un­known in the sport field. Now they are in every­thing. He has even fielded a WAC basketball team. 
Had a nice evening with Snorky Bnono, who is at De Paul University, Chicago, in the physical education department. He has been putting the servicemen there through a rigorous training. 
Vince Commisa has this to say: "I am now stationed in New Haven, which is swell as I get home quite often. .. . I was down to the Army-Notre Dame game, and had a good time seeing all the boys. It seemed like a reunion, sitting around the hotels talking over Notre Dame once more-I spent half the evening with Jack Barr>' and the other half with Mike Mahon. .. . I am here studying Japanese at Yale. We have a four month's course at the end of which we are sup­posed, to be able to write the language and speak it rather fluently. . . . Bad Dudley is back from Gunnery school in Fort Meyers, Fla. He is now at navigators' school and claims Jack Tallett is with him. Say, we sure can be proud of the grand job Joe Campagna is doing for the Air Corps! He is one of our real war heroes. He has had 60 dive bombing missions over Africa, Sicily and Europe." 
Sunny Randolph claims he likes it do\^'n at aviation school in Nashville, Tenn. He misses the Notre Dame hoys, and would appreciate a little mail. A Christmas card from Jerrj- Kila­rrew tells us he is still up at Harvard. 
A telephone conversation with Bob Kuipcrs^ now office manager of the BrannifT Airlines Chi­cago reserx-ations office, gave us this; Jim Ford and his brother. Bill, are both at Northwestern medical school, both in uniform. Bob reported a Notre Dame gathering at the Edgewater Beach Hotel. Chicago, not long sso. Among those pres­ent were Bob Nenno, who was going to Loyola medical school in a few days; Jack Hickey, who had been down at Fort Bliss, Texas, doing desert duty; and Art Ksrtheisen who is finishing up at Notre Dame. Neil Green was also on hand; Bah Martin is up at Great Lakes with him. 
Congratulations to Jade "Abe*' Forester, who was married to Doris Wermuth in Milwaukee on Jan. 22. His best man was Bob Kaipcrm. Zmmm Sandnm was seen passing through Chicago. He is now in the Navy Air Corps, stationed m Muncie. Ind. Joe Rocaefa was at school not lonff ago; he is in the chemical department of the Aluminum Corporation of America in St. I^mis. 
Associated Press tells us that OUie Honter is still kicking cinders in the boys* faces aa he races to victory in the various New York indoor track meets. OUie is at Columbia in the V-7 unit. Tom Callahan just graduated from COIUXIK bia and is now down in one of the naval branches at Norfolk, Va. We received a Utter from Ed CaUahan, familiar to all of us ninth semester boys, and he is now stationed in a V-5 school in Massachusetts. 
Father Tom Brennan. C.S.C.* had this news for us: Tom MiUer has graduated from the Northwestern midshipman school and is now in the South F!acific; Dick Crcevy is in an Army Air Corps school in Ohio; Danny Howell was in quartermasters' school at Har\'ard and is now in Miami. 
Father Charles Carey. C.S.C., heard from Charles Kocgler as follows: 

"The past week-end was eventful for roe. It included a very close call to death, and was fol­lowed by an enjoyable Saturday night and Son-day. Jim Crowley of Spartanburg was home on a furlough from Camp Hale, Colo. He came down here to Clinton to pick me up Saturday after­noon, and on the way back we had a rather bad accident. We slid off the slippery pavement, hit a ditch, and rolled over a few times- He. his girl friend, and myself were in the car, and only by a miracle, none of us was injured very much. Jim cut his forehead and ear, and received s bruised leg. I feel a little stiff today; but the girl was uninjured­
"A friend of ours took us to Spartanburg where we met 'Little John* WoelJIe, Joluuiy Lynch, and their girls. Those t\vo ditch-dijrgers from Camp Croft are still on the ball ^vith their wisecracks­
"I saw the Notre Dame 'Alumnus* at Crowley's and really enjoyed reading the whereabouts of some of the fellows we were so close ta I would appreciate it if you could have the 'Alumnus' sent to me. 
"Ted Kroll is now a sergeant at Fort Meade; and Ed Steiner is now a married man and wait­ing for the Na\-y to call him. As for the name of this place — don't worry, I am keeping the Faith. I arranged a Communion-breakfast for Christmas Day. I hope we shall be able to have another one before I leave South Carolina. Our good chaplain. Father Dab*, travels about 50 miles each Sunday for Mass here. . . .'* 
Addresses: Lt. William J. 0*NciI, Hdqs., 4th Air Force. Fiscal Office. 180 New Montgomery, San Francisco; Pvt. John G. Porheck, IGSth Ord. Dep. Co.. Camp Rucker. Ala.; Lt. James E. Brock, USMCR. Co. A. 35th Repl. Bn-, c/o Fleet P.O.. S-F.: 2nd Lt. John A. McGrath, Co. B. 27th Repl. Bn., APO 502. c/o F.M., S.F.; Ensicn Gail D. Fit!*, U-S-S, LST 3S2. c/o Fleet P.O., N.Y.C.; Cpt Edward A. Reagan. 65th Finance Disbursing Sec, PO 514, c/o P.M., N.Y.C-; En­sign Julian Atwater, NAD. St. Julien's Creek, Portsmouth, Va.; Ensign Eugene A. FcUic, AATB 221, c/o P.M., N.Y.C; Pvt. W- Leo Keat­ing, Div- Hq., Finance Dept.. APO 25, c/o P.M.. S.F. 
Jim Byrne, Detroit, received his ensign's com* mission at the Northwestern U- midshipmen school, Evanston, III., in December. Sgt. B«h Towner was graduated from an Army military intelligence school in England. Lt. Didc Smith. Breckenridge, Minn., is in England as first pikit of a flying fortress named "Destiny's Tot" and is the veteran of many long bombing misdons over the Continent, his mother writes. His ad­dress: 336th Sqdn., 95th Bomb. Grp.. APO 634, c/o P-M.. N.Y.C. 
Lt. Jade Hynes, Military Training Unit, A.A.B.. Dyersburg, Tenn-, wrote that two other '43 men were with him: Lt* Bide Cotter, and Lt. Jahn HcNjcoL The latter is in Jack's im­mediate group. 
Kay Ccstary played at halfback for the Fort Benning. Ga., team last fall. A/S Bob Le Mense wrote on Jan. 4 from the 343rd College Trg. Det. (Air Crew). Class 43-C^13, East Central State College. Ada, Okla.: ".. . a nice place — the best so far for me." Bob had been sent there for some studying and 10 hours of dual training. 
He had been briefly at Sheppard Held. Texas, and so he reported that he *'. . . left Jack Thamton, *44, at Sheppard Field waiting for or­ders. Jim Hnrphy and Evo Fatigati were still there also. Heard that Lt. Emmet Crowe. *39. and Bin Dillon (saw the latter once but didn't get to talk with him) were there. .. . I heard from a friend of Harm Spina's that Spina was at Camp Adair, Ore." 
Prt. Dan DowTiey was at N.D. on Feb. 7 on his return to Camp Adair, Ore., from a leave in Flor­ida. Had just been accepted by the Air Corps. A third "Scholastic" editor. Ensign Don Hcltzel, writes a long and interesting report from the South Pacific (Address: U.S.& LCI 331, c/o Fleet P.O., S-F.) Down there Don had seen Jerry Gainor (sub-chaser) and Joe Kramer (LCI) of *43 and Jahn Hacalaao, *38, (LCI). Don was handling navigation and communications and was in training in other departments when he wrote from his base at "Whisky Beach" (because there's no whisky anywhere around). He had had two weeks in Australia just before Christmas in New Caledonia. Don had heard that Ed Hidcey and B«d tIAer were around his neighborhood but he hadn't seen them yet-
Jerqr Coleman writes that he has moved into Marine training at New River. N. C., from Par­ris Island, S. C. Four of six lieutenants in charge of Jerry's group at New River are recent N.D. men: Jahn Lanihan, Lany Sullivan, George Marphy and Bob Neff. 
CpL John T. Malloy, Chicago, recently arrived home for a rest after a year of action against the Japs in the Southwest Pacific. John. Marine dive bomber gunner, had been on 40 bombing missions. He personally is credited with having shot down a Jap Zero over Munda and his group received a Presidential citation for gallantry in 
action. 
Pf c Bob Flynn, Washington, D.C., stopped in at the Alumni Office for an enjoyable chat a few weeks ago. Bob is in dental school and liv, ing at home. 
1944 and Later 
David B. Condon, care of Alnmni ounce, Notre Dame, Ind. 
[The recently demilitarized Dave Condon has generously consented to take over, temporarily at least, the assignment of reporting on post-1943 activities. Dave will i^-enter the University at the start of the next semester, about March 6. and meanwhile is on the staff of the "South Bend Tribune." His wide journalistic experience, coupled with his wide acquaintanceship, made him an ideal secretary—Eds.] 
From Dave Condon; 
I've been a long time basking in the New Mexico sunlight since I was discharged by the army at Fort Bliss, Texas, on Dec. 3, and con­aeqnently have fallen down a bit in the corre­spondmce. Back here at N.D. I'll try to do heUer. 

Heading back to Notre Dame after the first of the year, I stopped in Chicago and saw BUI Brown, who came down from ]lbrquette. where he is with the Naval V-5. He was to be trans­ferred to pre«fiight school the following IHiesday. Bill's mother said that Ray O'ConncU was in North Africa according to the latest word. 
Sunday afternoon we buzzed over to see John McGowan, who figured to be in from Great Lakes. He couldn't make it, however, having just had a leave following his completion of boot training. Bill said that Ray Downey, the ex.-N.D. and ex-Wisconsin footballer, was at DePauw, Ind., in the V-5 program. At the rail­road station Sunday evening I bumped into Jack Leahy, who was catching the same train that Bill was after. Jack also is with the V-5 at Marquette^ Hadn't seen him since a year ago when Joe Campbell and I rode home on the EH Ccpitan. Also. late Sunday night I saw Robert "Red** Lonergan for a few moments, and he 
' said that he recently got a phone call from Scoop Scanlan. 
Coming down to South Bend sure wasn't like the old days. There was the time when Notre Dame students were ten to a foot in the Chicago South Shore Station, but that is no more-I searched through seven cars of train on the way down and finally found John "The Tree" Adama and had a long talk with him. 
Recently Jack Deejran wrote me from Massa­chusetts Institute of Technology and Jim Daska­loff has breezed in a couple of letters from Mich­igan State. I owe Danny Gentile a letter for his last masterpiece; Don Heltzel's mail has a hard time catching up with him. and Tom Dougherty isn't in the writing mood. 
Jim Horgan sent a letter and informs us that he is now at Stanford; Ronald Carter's latest bit of info looks like he might be heading across the water .. . he thinks so. . . . Dick Bams, who was at Loyola University school of medicine, signed up with the Navy on a good deal and is still at Loyola . . . the latest letter from Bob LeMense reports him in Oklahoma and he said that when he was at Sheppard Field, he ran into a raft of Notre Dame guys including Tom Rolfs . . . maybe it was LeMense, but one of the fel­lows who wrote in said that George Barisciro was recently seen by them. . . . Dick McHagh is still farming and asks us to drop up to Illinois. 
Getting back to Notre Dame was pleasant. Immediately saw Father Carey and then trotted over to Sorin — one of the last civilian strong­holds — you guys know Didc Ames and Frank Kent, F. A. (Tex) Peqaigney, Dick Murphy, Joe (Hobie) Mnmane, John Fleaka, Barney Slater and others. 
The second night I was back I went to the basketball game and ran across Paul Limcnt and Jim White. White says that Luke Higgins owes him a letter, and I say likewise. Cy Kelly turned up at the ball game; Noel Digby showed his face in the cafeteria. All four of them are wearing navy uniforms. Tom E. Donghcrty is around with the civilians; Richard Ryan Yoong is with the NROTC and I had a talk with him. Al Sommer*s mother wrote Tex Peqnicner a letter. . . . Frank Kecnan is helping Tex on the "Scholastic" staff. Frank is wearing the navy colors, too-Gerry Ford called me up one day and asked me out to Alumni .. . he looks good in the Navy outfit . . . we talked about all the guys. 
A few days ago I walked into a cafe downtown in South Bend and saw Dick Ames and Bill (The Beard) Mahin. Dick said that he had seen Art Hayes a couple of times when he was up in Minnesota and he reported that Lt. Don O'Sfaaaghnessy had just written from New Orleans. 
John Denniston, ex. *45. of Camp Van Doin. Miss., comes through handsomely. He says: 
"ASTP men: Tom Sdierer, Jchn Cmin, and Dick McGaricty, are studying engineering at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge. Dick Keooghan is in the specialized program at Texas A. £ M. I reported a few months ago that Joe Hannon was at Yale University in the medical branch of ASTP; since then Brvdc Lyndi and Pat Yoklavicfa have joined him there. John Shannon is currently studying languages and Areas at Plenn. University. Jade Deecaa reports from H.I.T. that things are pretty rugged. 
"Others: J. H. Johnston is stationed now at Fort Benning. Ga.. in the paratroops. He is un­dergoing some rough physical training. Some months ago little Don Marpfay finished the coarse at Benning. Tom Eagan, stationed at Van Dom. says Tom Hardman was at Fort Meade. Hd. Also, he informed us Jerry Witzman was a corporal in the infantry at Fort Benning. 
"During my furlough I stopped down at school and ran into Joe Bad, who is down in the Ari­zona desert. He is an assistant to the chaplain, Capt. Vincent Mooney of the C.S.C.'s I believe. Joe said Ken Brown and Lanigan were with him in the tank corps. I took in the Notre Dame-Northwestern basketball game at the Stadium and ran into Ray Donovan and Jim Cuininsham Jim said he was awaiting orders to report to the midshipman's school at Notre Dame on Feb. 
7. His younger brother, who attended N.D. as a freshman, was ready to receive his wings. I Told Jim that Jack Dinges, '42. former sports editor of 'Scholastic' is a lieutenant in the Army Air Corps ground forces in Greenville, S. C. Ed Meagher, former editor of 'Scrip,* is doing cleri­cal work for the IRC at Camp Blanding. Fla. Jerry Dann, '39, according to Johnston, is with the Field Artillery in Camp Van Dorn. Hiss. O'Laochlin* one of the stars of the frosh basket­ball team last year, is with the infantry at Van Dorn. 
**AI Sommer Christmas-carded from Fort lUley. Kans.. where 'Punchy* is doing some clerking. Bob Kopf finally came through with a long over­due letter from Camp Wheeler. Ga. Bob is in headquarter and headquarters company. He in­forms us that Bob Beck and Jim Halane are both working after being honorably discharged from the Army -because of physical disabilities. 
"Kevin Rohan wrote from New York City, where he is working for a large camera concern. He has been re-cIassified from 4-F U> 1-A and will be called shortly. He says John Fard is in North Africa and that George Cranin is now a corporal. Kev's cousin, Gerry Gaffney, is with the MP's in Texas, 
"Sorry I missed Frank Brady and Noel Dixhy. both studying in the Navy V-12 program at Notre Dame. Ran into Tom E. Daagkerty who is living in Sorin Hall. Bemie Ratledge and Lc* KUer both looked good. They are two of the current mainstays of the basketball five. Talked to Tex Crowley, who informed us Roy GramhiMe, Back Madden, Wally Le Bcrge and all the fel­lows in the NROTC are waiting for graduation this spring. 
MANY IN MILITARY UST 
Under "Additional Military Men" in this issae you'll find listed many class of '•l-l graduates and many memhers of later classes. There would, of coarse, be n« ' point in listing such names here also. 

*^mm McLavUfai and Pat Mtadike were botii at Camp Fannin awaiting DCS when I last saw them.'* 
New addresses for two ex. *44 men: Pvt. Ka^ crt P. Kiby, Battery B, 5«7th AAAAW. OuBp Haan, Cdif.; C»L Fra« J. NeAit, 37420019, 108th Oraiance Co. (MM), APO 717. e/o PJT.. CaUf.: Pn. Jaha J. Dnlcavy. 15343541. APO 150€9, c/o PJC. N.T.C. 
CkmA Patlcraaa is a naval aviation cadet at Fensacola. Fla. Pfc. Jaha E. Crania is in the ASTP at Looisiana SUte University. Box 6525, Baton Rooge. He wrote that he had seen or heard from or about A/C Mike Frawky. Ijtm CaBeraa, Jaha Caasifiae, Kdiy Caak, Dippy Evans and Jeln Daakavy. Pffe. Daa McDanid is with John in the Tiowisisna ASTP. 
Mike Graaat is a labor conciliator for the Teamsters* Union, 811^ I^ncoln Way West, South Bend. Pvt. Dick Fricrott, Co. A. Soth Med. Tmg. Bn., M.R.T.C., Camp Barkeley, Texas, wrote to Dr. Balfiaccn dean of science, that be was already in ASTP at Ohio State as an engi­neering student- before it was discovered be hadn't completed Ms basic- Iherefore the ship­ment to Barkeley. from which spot he expected to go again to ASTP in February. 
Pvt. Ted Wcfcer. Ha. Iftv., Service of SuppIies.*^ APO 502, c/o P.M., SJ*.. writes that be Is a clerk-typist on New Gkledonia and that he finds' the work and the spot interesting. He continues: 
**Geac Slevia works in the same camp and is in seventh heaven since his brother is also sta­tioned here. Lyle Jayce is on the island, as. are Ycatca, Sanivan and Cashauui. Dan BIrrca is probably here, though I haven't been able to contact him yet." 
Whereabouts of assorted '44 men in the Octo­ber, '43. class revealed by tracer cards returned to Alumni Office: Bernard F. Bawling, contrac­tor. 1S87 Rutherford, Louisville; RaWit W. Raff, metallurgist. Taylor Forge and Pipe Works. Ci­cero. 111.; Gearse D. Pawers, test engineer. Gen­eral Electric Erie, Pa.: William G. CCaaacIL chemical en^neer, duPont. Buifalo, N. Y.; VaO 
W. Pischke, law student. Notre Dame; Cluriea 
E. Marray, with Studebaker Aviation Corp.. South Bend; Jalu E. McSwccney, medical stu­dent Johns Hopkins, Baltimore; Jaaea J. Ha­laae, cost clerk, Libbey-Owens-Ford. Toledo. 
Gcrarda J. Lamfeatdi, chemical engineer. Rally Tar 4 Chemical Corp., Indianapolis; Rahcrt C KaU and ttohert T. Daffy, junior engineers. Na­tional Advisory Committee for Aeronautics. Cleveland; WiOiaai J. Eatan and James B. Tieacr* engineers. Pan American Airvimjs, New York City; Bernard J. Odglieri, Toluca. HI., home awaiting orders to report for V-7 training; Jelm J. Jaeger, engineer. Dumore Co., Racine. Wis.; Batert E. Gardner, research engineer, Cur­tiss Wright Corp.. Buffalo. N. Y.; Jaacs A. Finacraa* instructional assistant, MJ.T., . Cam­bridge. Mass.: Laaia CS. Dhaare, engineer. Boe­ing Aircraft Co.. Seattle. Wash.; CyrU G. De­sawt, research in chemical engineering, Grosse Pointe Farms. Mich.; Edward C Waten, nwth instructor. Notre Dame; Daniel J. ToMcik, test engineer. General Electric. Schenectady. N. Y.; Lawrence A. Aaspaa, (Ph.D.). researdi chemist, duPbnt. Buffalo. N. Y.; Kahert S. Wittc, physics instructor. Notre Dame; Hal Banter, law school, Notre Dame; Gcargc R. Weadt, clerk for Cook County auditor, Chicaga while awaiting call for V-7 training; Charles F. Raley, graduate stu­dent. Notre Dame; Paal W. O'CaandL graduate teaching and research assistant in biochenustzy. University of Rochester School of MetSdne, 
Rochester. K. Y. 
The Review of Politics 
Five years ago, with little fanfare but much determination, a group of writers on the faculty of the University of Notre Dame published the first number of The Revieiv of Politics. The magazine was announced as "primarily interested in the philosophical and historical approach to political realities," and was to appear quarterly. The price was placed at 75 cents a copy or ?2.50 a year. Prof. Wal­deraar Gurian assumed the task of ed­itor-in-chief and Profs. Frank O'Malley and P. A. Hermens became managing editors. Closely associated with the new venture were Fathers Leo E. Ward, Francis Boland, and Charles C. Miltner, and Prof. Willis D. Nuttuig. 
Fathers Miltner and Boland have since been called to other fields of work and I have taken up with Mr. O'Malley the burdens of managing editor, to allow Mr. Hermens time for other tasks. To the original collaborators on the campus have been added Profs. Yves E. Simon and Matthew Fitzsimons, with occasional assistance from Fathers Philip Moore, William Bolger, and William Cunning­ham, and Profs. John Sheehan, Eufus Eauch, Paul Bartholomew, Daniel O'Gra­dy, and William Shanahan. (The final two are now on leave for service with the armed forces). As these names indi­cate, the Revieiv while emphasizing the important political problems of the past few years has also included topics in the related fields of economics, literature, philosophy, and religion which are so much in public discussion. 
Equally as significant as the occasion the Revieiv has extended Notre Dame writers to express well prepared opinions on current topics, has been the oppor­tunity offered to prominent nationally and internationally known thinkers to join in the issues of the Review. Jacques Maritain of the Sorbonne, John U. Nef, Mortimer Adler, and President Eobert 
M. Hutchins of the University of Chi­cago, Goetz Briefs of Georgetown Univer­sity, Carl Friedrich of Harvard, Don Luigi Sturzo of Italy, Dr. Oscar Halecki of Poland, and Father John A. Eyan of the Catholic University of America are some of the outstanding contributors who have published articles on political and cultural topics in the Revieiv. Some of the articles resulted from three sym­posia on current political, social, and re­ligious problems which were sponsored on the campus by the Revieiv, and which were attended by students and professors of universities in the vicinity. A notable issue of the Review was the Centennial Issue, written entirely by members of the faculty of the University to commemor­ate the Notre Dame centenary. 
It would not be proper to say that any one article of the past five years is bet­ter than any other because the general level of the Review has been very high. Dr. Gurian's articles on German and Eussian politics have provided sound ap­proaches to the present day political problems in central Europe. Don Stur­zo's discussions of the complex Italian situation are probably the most capable that have appeared in' the American press. Studies by Dr. Simon and Mr. and Mrs. Paul Vignaux have supplied much needed information on the sad conditions in occupied France. Dr. Oscar Halecki has contributed an important article on Polish-Eussian relations. 
The philosophical writings of Jacques Maritain on "The End of Machiavellian­ism," and Mortimer Adler's "A Dialectic of Morals" expressed the brilliance - of the neo-Thomistic movement in Amer­ican universities. Dr. Nef's studies on the unity of culture have shown unusual powers of analysis and synthesis in his examination of the anarchy of values in current university education. Dr. Her­mens' studies on proportional representa­tion, Mr. O'Malley's criticism of current literature and Father Leo E. Ward's in­vestigation of cooperatives are represen­tative of the many other studies of spe­cial current topics which have caused a slow but steady growth in the circulation of the magazine. For some, the excel­lently prepared reviews of current books on history, politics, philosophy, and eco­nomics have been a most useful feature of the Revieiv. Not only have the regular contributors written reviews but other notable writers have given their opinions of books of current significance. 
The maintenance of this high quality of the Revieiv of Politics during the past five years is an achievement of no small merit, attributable in the first place to the University administration since the Revieiv has no'endowment, and secondly to its editors who receive no special al­lowance for their efforts. It has promoted a cultural exchange with members of neighboring universities and has brought new inspiration to the campus. 
Many of the alumni have manifested a great interest in its welfare by foster­ing subscriptions and by making known its work to libraries and teachers. It is a Notre Dame enterprise of a high order and it is hoped that the trying months that lie ahead will not check its good work of giving Notre Dame thought and culture to others and inviting the best of our university neighbors to share in our work by their pens. 
The January, 1944, issue, which be-began the sixth year of the Review of Politics, featured an article by Mr. O'Malley entitled "Education for Man" in which he discusses Maritain's recent book on education and the current pro­posals for changing education. Helmut Kuhn of the University of North Caro­lina examines the very famous myth of the "Common Man." Hannah Arendt has WTitten a remarkable study of the origin of modem racism, one of the more ser­ious problems facing the United States today. There are also interesting re­views of books on current political ques­tions by Professors Gurian, Hermens, and MacNair, among others. — (Rev.) Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., '25. 





