The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
i9tU A*i*iuai 

U.N. D. Night 
AftAiin 

Across the Lake to the Twin Spires 
Vol. 20 APRIL, 1942 No. 6 
FIFTH CHAPLAIN FROM C.S.C. 



UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS :-: :-. 
Rev. Edmimd J. Murray, C. S. C, '34, 
DEFENSE TRAINING 
With an actual attendance, at the sec­ond class meeting, of 1,407, Notre Dame's defense training program shifted into high gear to speed eflSciency in the battle of production. The program, which opened Feb. 9, was the fourth in the series of 12-week courses which the Universitj', in cooperation with the Unit­ed States Office of Education, is offering to give special civilian training in fields essential to national defense. 
Thii-ty-nine tuition-free classes are being offered, with each class taught twice weekly for two hours each night. Civilian re-sponse has been so enthusias­tic that government maximum enroll­ment figures have had to be ""lifted in or­der to accomodate the interested citizens of St. Joseph County and neighboring communities. The special faculty is composed largely of Notre Dame teach­ers. 
The largest enrollment is in the i-adio division with 263 registered. The class­es in industrial safety are second in size, having 100; while the class in tools and dies lists 88 students. Other courses be­ing offered are: engineering physics, ma­chine drawing, elementary and advanced drawing, metallurgy, tools, dies, jigs and fixtures, engineering mechanics, strength of materials, materials testing, concrete design and practice, methods engineer­ing, work simplification, electric motors and control, applied electronics, airplane stress analysis, industrial management, foremanship, personnel administration, salary occupation evaluation, cost ac­counting, statistics, defense contracts and problems, advanced organic chemis­try, and general chemistrj\ 
The classes are open to high school graduates or persons with equivalent in­dustrial experience. The courses are open to both men and women without regard to race or creed. 
Notre Dame Defense Coordinator, Rev. James D. Trahey, C. S. C, is act­ing as supervisor for the elaborate ci­vilian defense training program, in ad­dition to his duties of manning an office to aid boys in the draft and a clearing house for recruiting on the campus by the various military services. 
ON NUTRITION FOUNDATION 

The appointment of Eev. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C., president of the University, as a director of the newly-formed Nutri­tion Foundation by Dr. Karl Compton, president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is one more Notre Dame step in another major war effort, that of nutrition. 
Father O'Donnell attended the organ­ization dinner of the foundation, March 12, in the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, New York City. The foundation was formed by 15 of the nation's leading food and allied industries, and further support will be solicited by the directors from other related industries which may be­come sustaining members. Representa­tives of the public will also be appointed to the foundation. 
The foundation plans to develop and apply the science of nutrition "by lawful and effective means as a public institu­tion operating on a non-profit basis. The field is expected to cover such wartime problems as substitute foods used to meet basic food shortages, and compact food rations for armed forces. Notre Dame's biological department and laboratories may contribute substantially to the prog­ress of the science during the crisis. 
MANION IS HONORED 
Clarence E. Manion, dean of the Notre Dame Law School, received an honorary 

LL.D. deg:ree during the celebration of annual Foimder's Day at Boston Uni­versity, on March 12 and 13, in "recog­nition of the outstanding service" he is rendering "in the field of religrion and the law." He addressed the Founder's Day convocation on the subject, "Relig­ion and American Law," an observance which also marked the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Boston University Law School. 
Dean Manion was a principal speaker on a nation-wide NBC broadcast on March 2, from New York City, inaugur­ating a campaign for Americanism edu­cation to be sponsored by the Knights of Columbus. Presiding was Timothy P. Galvin, '16, of Hammond, Ind., supreme master of the Fourth Degree Knights. Others who participated in the progr^n were Archbishop Francis J. Spellman, LL.D., '35, and J. Edgar Hoover, chief of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
Dean Manion addressed the Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus in Birming­ham, Ala., on Feb. 22, Washington's Birthday. His address was broadcast by the Columbia chain. 

instructor in religion and a prefect of Badin, left March 6 to take on his new .duties as Ui S.-'Almy"chaplain at Camp 
Barkley, Te.x. 
; Father Murray was ordained in 1938 and installed at Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame, as an instructor in Latin and relig^ion. Through the schoolyears 1939-41, he was pastor at the St. Joseph's farm, while teaching religion at Notre Dame. 

Father Murray was the fifth Holy Cross priest to become an Army chaplain in recent months. Fathers Robert W. Woodward, '28; George J. Welch, '29; Joseph D. Barry, '29, and Edward R. Fitzgerald, '30, preceded him into the military service. 
AERONAUTICAL MEETING HERE 
Notre Dame was host to 200 students and numerous visiting technicians and engineering professors, members of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences from 12 college and imiversity branches throughout the Middle-West, at a convo­cation March 20 and 21. An open house held the second day of the meeting, opened to the public for inspection the engineering facilities at Notre Dame. 
The speaker's program included Major 

L. D. Gardner, executive vice-president of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences, New York City, and William B. Stout, widely known head of the Stout Engi­neering Laboratories, Detroit. Professor John D. Akerman, head of the University of Minnesota Department of Aeronauti­cal Engineering, presided over the Satur­day luncheon session held in the Hotel Hoffmann. 
Prof. Bradley Jones, of the University of Cincinnati, presided over the Saturday morning meeting, and Prof. G. H. Twen­ey, of the University of Detroit, was chairman of the afternoon session. Meet­ings were held in Gushing Hall and the Biology Building. 
Next to Notre Dame, the University of Cincinnati had the largest delegation with 30 students present. Next in order were the University of Chicago, with 24 members, and the University of Detroit with 19 members. 
/J>DRESSES EDUCATION MEETS 
Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C, director of faculty and education teach­ers at the University, represented Notre Dame at both the North Central Associa­
(Continued on page S) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This masaiine is published montlily from Octolier to June, inclnsive (except Januanr), br tta UniriraitT of Not n 1 
Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1. 19S9, at the Fosteffiee. Notr* Vaaa, Tndiaiia. jmiar tte 
net of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Cathaiie Alunrai Federation. . JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, "25, Editor; WILLMM R DOOLEY, 76. Manapng EJHor 
Vol. 20 APRIL, 1942 No. 6 
"Meet Your Navy" on U. N. D. Night 
ant of the Ninth Naval District, and Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University. 
Begun in 1924, Universal Notre Dame Night has an­nually grown in program and extent. The 94 local alumni clubs throughout the world, supplemented by other groups, especially this year the N.D. men in the many camps and training schools of the armed forces, meet simultaneously on this night, and since 1935 have enjoyed the unifying factor of a national radio broad­

REAR ADMIRAL DOWNES and FATHER O'DONNELL 
cast. 

The Nineteenth annual Universal Notre Dame Night will be held on Fri­day, April 17, and will feature the moving of the Blue Network "Meet Your Navy" radio program to the Notre Dame campus for that night. 
The above announcement, made by Harry F. Kelly, secretary of state of Michigan, and national president of the Alumni Association, ties in closely with the arrival on the University campus of the 1,000 V-T Navy apprentice seamen for indoctrination training. The broad­cast, usually emanating from the Great Lakes Naval Training Station, will be held in the University Gymnasium with the V-7 men, 3,000 Notre Dame students, faculty and officer personnel and the Notre Dame alumni of the St. Joseph Valley in attendance, totaling an antici­pated 5,500. 
The broadcast, 7:30 to 8 P. M. central war time, will feature the Great Lakes band and choir, with orchestra, the Uni­versity band and glee club, and talks by Rear Admiral John Downes, command­
The close relationship existing between Notre Dame and the Navy makes this union of Notre Dame Night and the Navy broadcast one of both strength and mutual interest. 
All club presidents have received two bulletins from the Alumni Office, giving numerous details of, and suggestions for, the Night. At least one other bulletin will probably be sent to the same gentlemen. Alumni in club areas are, therefore, asked to keep closely in touch with their clubs with regard to individual observ­ances of the occasion. Almnni in non-dnb areas are asked to communicate with their nearest Blue Network stations to insure reception of the campus radio program on the maximum iramber of stations. 
Siihts lilce this were common when, to make room far the NaTjr. stadcnts eracaated Herrisaer, Lyons and Howard halls to doable up in Ditkm. Alamni and Cavanaafh. Law BoiMinc in the kadvnml . 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Knight of St. Gregory 
Notre Dame glories in the new recog­


The Centenary 
nition of Timothy P. Galvin, '16, of Ham­
Exigencies of War Period Dictate Modified Plans 
Elaborate plans for a Centenary which would feature recognition of all phases of the University's 100 years, in the 15 months from June, 1942 to September, 1943, have been modified by the admin­istration to conform to the demands of the war effort and the all-out attention to the immediate problems involved. 
However, motivated by the thought that the recognition and continuation of sound education are among these im­mediate problems, Notre Dame will offi­cially observe the Centenary during the scholastic year 1942-43, with a program reduced to a non-festive and distinctly constructive nature. 
Details of the new program have not yet been revealed in full by the admin­istration. 
Events scheduled to take place at the University under the auspices of outside organizations will go ahead as scheduled within the new limitations imposed by the presence of the continuous naval program involving 1,000 V-? trainees housed on the campus. 
The University's own initiated pro­gram will consist of only a few events on the campus, but the objective is to make these outstanding in every way, and contributions to the progress of edu­cation as applied to the problems of the country. 
The historj' of the Universitj' ^vill be published, probably during the Centen­ary year. It is hoped that the Notre Dame prayer-book will be completed. And through radio and publications, the University hopes to reach those alumni and friends who may not be able to come to the campus for the restricted pro­grams which will take place here. 
Alumni have an excellent opportunity to contribute to the success of the Cen­tenary. 
Our financial program, already launched and in the hands of the clubs, will be a basic form of this contribu­tion. 
But there are many other ways. Notre Dame's first 100 years stand out, par­ticularly in the light of limited material resources, as an era of great spiritual strength. As alumni of this period, you can contribute your spiritual aid to the launching of the second 100 years. And your example, evident throughout the world, will make an additional contribu­tion to the realization that Notre Dame has achieved its spiritual objective. 
You can, by your leadership, your 

work, and your example, bring to ever 
increasing circles evidence of the cul­
tural impact of Notre Dame. 
You can, by enterprise and coopera­

tion with the campus, maintain to the 
limit that various circumstances permit, 
the vital enrollment that best enables 
Notre Dame to fulfil its mission. 
You can refresh your contacts with 

Notre Dame by coming back to the cam­
pus yourself whenever opportunity i>er­
mits. Personal contact and knowledge 
is a stimulus in itself, and a source of 
missionary inspiration that nothing else 
creates. 
Notre Dame's Centenary, in spite of the willing limitations made to aid the mnning of the war, can be successful if you will support in every way the Uni­versity that made you Notre Dame men, and be the Notre Dame men the Uni­versity made you. 
First Citizen at Notre Dame 
The first Filipino to gain United States citizenship. Pastor Villaflor, an expert in the fine art of embroidery, is living in Corby Hall, and has been for a good many years. He came to this coun­try in 1900 through the help of Father Vattman, an American missionary sta­tioned in the Philippine Islands. On his arrival in the United States, he was en­tertained by "Teddy" Koosevelt, and breakfasted ^vith the president at the White House. Also numbered among his friends were such dignitaries as Pius X, Leo Xin, President Taft, President Wil­son, Cardinal Hayes, and Cardinal Mun­delein. 
He has studied many types of weaving and needlework. His technique of blend­ing Chinese silk with delicate shadings and his original designs won laudations and awards at the Chicago and the St. Louis fairs. Some of the vestments that are to .be used during the Notre Dame centenary services were made by him over a three and one-half year period. His other accomplishments include a teaching knowledge of French, Spanish, German and Latin; and painting with oils on velvet; he is an accomplished musician on the piano, guitar, organ and violin. 
mond, Ind., who was recently honored by the Holy Father with membership in the Knights of St. Gregory, a pontifical or­der of knighthood founded by Pope Greg­ory XVI in 1831. Membership in the or­der is not confined to any country, or to Catholics alone, but is a reward for pub­lic service which benefits religion and the Holy See. 


Timothy P. Galvin. '16 

Tim, an attorney, supreme master of the Knights of Columbus since January, 1941, has for nine years been a member of the Supreme Board of Directors of the Knights of Columbus, and for the past two years has served as chairman of the Audit Committee of that board. 
While at Notre Dame Tim was a Breen Medalist in oratory, a star debater for three years, an editor of the Scholastic and editor-in-chief of the Dome. Always close to the University, in 1934-35 he was president of the Alumni Association. Having served with the A.E.F. in World War I, he was a charter member and first commander of the American Legion Post in Valparaiso, Ind. He is a former presidait of the Hammond Chamber of Commerce. 

Speaks in Scranton 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, and Postmaster Gen­eral Frank C. Walker, '09, toastmaster for the evening, were two of the princi­pal-speakers at the 37th annual dinner of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick of Lackawanna County, March 17, in the Hotel Casey, Scranton, Pa., with 605 £:aests in attendance. 
The Notre Oame Alui 


War Breaks Commencement Traditions 
Alumni Association and University WoHdng io Hold Interest and Spirit; No Campus Hous­ing Results In One-Day Alumni Prograrn for '42 
Hardly a square foot of world is un­affected by the war, and the campus is no exception. 
Latest war-problem for alumni is Commencement. The University admin­istration and the Alumni Association of­ficers have seen it coming for some months and have osed every means pos­sible to solve it to mutual satisfaction. 
But the results involve inevitably a sacrifice of the old physical comforts of the traditional Commencement week­ends. 
As it stands now—^for the duration— Commencement itself will be variable in emphasis because of the three semesters. 
Housing complications, caused by the addition of the V-7 trainees who will use continuously Howard, Morrissey and Lyons Halls; and the shifting of stu­dents to the other halls on a 2-for-l basis; plus the short lapse of time be­tween semesters which will produce no complete hall evacuation as in the old summer vacation period—^have combined to permit no housing on the campus of returning aliunni. 
Inasmuch as the South Bend hotels will be taxed, as always, by the parents of the graduates, alumni are faced with the same situation as that of a football week-end. 
Logically, then, the Association has had to work on the same basis, and re­duce the alumni program for the '42 Commencement to one day, Saturday, May 9. Alomni-who-wish to come in earlier, or to stay over for Sunday's academic program, will have to contrib­ute their part to tiie war effort by mak­ing arrangements for hotel or private home accommodations. The Alumni Of­fice will aid in this when desired, as on football week-ends. 
Many alumni in the heavily populated "driving and commuting" area—Chica­go, Indianapolis, Fort Wayne, Detroit, Grand Rapids, Toledo, Calumet District, etc—can come in in the dew of the morning, and leave in the calm still of the ni^it, and hardly know that they haven't had the traditional Commence­ment. 
The program now planned api)ears elsewhere on this page. 
This program, crowded as it is with important and interesting events, seems to preserve the general outline of the traditional week-end of Commencement, and should repay generously all those who make the effort and the sacrifice in­volved in carrying it out. 
We hope to have registration id the Alumni 0£Sce as always, to designate the individuals and the classes by badge for the important and pleasant fratern­ity of reunion and new acquaintance. The reunion luncheons should bring to­gether old classmates and a wealth of memories. 
The alumni forums are too valuable in themselves, and too valuable as con­tributions to needed straight thiwMtig in this period of crisis, to be permitted to lapse. Alumni opinion, solicited in'a recent approach to many alamoi, will guide the selection of topics for these forums, which will be announced as soon as possible, but which will be surely of general interest and importance. 
B« 
The Alumni' Banquet will bring the entire attendance together as always, 'with an even more important and inter­esting program in 'View of the curcmn­stances of the year. Father O'Donnell's annual report 'will have a deeper signifi­cance than ever, and the affairs of the Association need your attention and sup­port more than in any previous period. 
Many alumni are tied down by busi­ness and many 'will have only a short leave from military service. It may well be that the curtailment of the pro­gram 'will be an asset rather than a lia­bility. 
At least it has the element.of novelfy —asking for fewer hours of effort lath­er than more hours. The item of ex­pense is reduced to some extent by the one-day program, and the difference where it is of no vital dgnificance to the saver, can well be added to Hbe alum­ni contribution to the Association's Cen­tenary campaign. 
There are many favorable ancles to the new program. And we bdieve that with alumni cooperatiom we can preaerve an of the content of the worthwhile phases of Commencement in this altered form. 


ALUMNI REUNION PROGRAM 
Saturday morning. May 9, at 10:30—an alumni forum. 
Saturday noon. May 9, at 12:30—two major Reunion Luncheons, the 1937 and the 1932 Classes in the 5-and-lO group; and the 5-Year Class­es of 1927 and before in another, in the University Dining Halls. 
Saturday afternoon a sports program: 
Michigan State vs. N. D., track meet at 2 P. M. 
Western Michigan vs. N. D., baseball at 3:30 P. M. 
Northwestern U. vs. N. D., tennis at 2 P. M. 
Saturday afternoon at 4:30—another general forum. 
Saturday at 6:30—the annual Alumni Banquet. 
H" 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Executives' Duties Defined 
Ail Business Departments 
erick is married and a resident of South Bend. 
Donald J. Easley, secretary of the University, is given the more definitive title of director of student accounts un­der the new program; His office is charged with the record of student accounts, is­suing of statements, preparing of pro­grams of payment, and the assignment of rooms on the campus to students. Mr. Easley was also in the U. S. Navy dur­ing the first World War, serving at Great Lakes and out of San Francisco daring that period, returning to complete his work for the degree of bachelor of philosophy in foreign commerce at Notre Dame in 1921. Subsequent work in bank­ing and accounting took him to the Union Trust in Cleveland, the Edward Gore accounting firm in Chicago, the First National Bank in Portland, Ore., and the First National Bank in Lincoln, Neb. He also worked for several years on the business staff of the French Lick Springs Hotel. In 1933 he returned to Notre Dame where he has been associated with the accounting and comptroller's offices before assuming his present duties. In 1936, while at Notre Dame, he became a certified public accountant. Mr. Easley is married and resides in Niles, Mich. 
Other officers of the University whose duties are outlined specifically in the new program, but whose duties and titles remain practically unchanged from the previous program are: Frank W. Lloyd, comptroller and business manager of the University; Brother Albinus, C.S.C, treasurer of the University; E. P. Con­nolly, managrer of the,University Dining Halls; Brother Meinrad, C.S.C, manager of the University bookstore; Frank W. Leahy, director of athletics; Gerald J. 
(Continued on Page 12) 
Report to 

Three Notre Dame executives have somewhat altered duties or titles, and the business administration generally is clarified and its scope emphasized in new "Articles of Business Administra­tion" just araioimced to the University by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, president. 
Brother Chrysostom, C.S.C, general auditor, William J. Broderick, chief ac­countant, and Donald J. Easley, director of student accounts, are the executives involved in the changes. 
All executives of University business departmoits are made directly respon­sible under the new articles to Eev. John 
J. Cavanangh, C.S.C, vice-president of the University, and steward of the Uni­versity under the rules of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross. 
Brother Chrysostom, formerly in gen­eral charge of the accounting depart­ment, now becomes general auditor with the responsibility for accounting inspec­tion, regular or special audits, inven­tories, the countersigning of disburse­ment checks, and verification of securi­ties, contracts, and leases in the oflice of the treasurer or other depositories. 
The auditor has an interesting personal baekgroimd. His home, town is Marine, IlL He enlisted jn the Navy in World War I and was in the famous Great Lakes band which toured Indiana...and the Middle West in the interests of re­
Donald J. Easley  Vice-President. 

cruiting and sale of bonds and stamps. He was assigned to the U.S.S. Dixie and was overseas in most of the countries of the continent, spending some ten months on land duty and more than a year on ship duty during the War. Fol­lowing the war, he entered the civil serv­ice, spending some time at Scott Field in Belleville, 111., in the quartermaster's of­fice there. Forfive years (1920-25) he was with the internal revenue service in the Springfield office of the Eighth District. In 1925 he entered the Congregation of Holy Cross, took college work at Notre Dame and became assistant to Brother Florence, C.S.C, then treasurer. From 1935 to 1938, Brother Chrysostom was treasurer of St. Edward's University in Austin, Texas. He returned to head the University's accounting department until the reorgfanization just effected. 
Brother Oirysostom, CS.C 

William J. Broderick, • who becomes chief accountant under the new program, charged with the methods, procedures and records of all departments of the University, has been in the Notre Dame accounting offices since 1932. Completing his preparatory work in Indianapolis, he was a student at Notre Dame from 1923 to 1925, when he left to accept a position with the Chapman Price Steel Co., Indianapolis, where he remained until 1929. From 1929 untU 1932 he worked for the accounting division of the Continental Steel Co., Kokomo. Mr. Brod­
William J. Broderick 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Helen C. White Receives Laetare Medal 
Helen Constance White, teacher and author, of the University of Wisconsin, was on March 15 announced as the 60th Laetare Medalist of Notre Dame, the thirteenth woman to receive the medal, which was first awarded to John Gilmary Shea, historian, in 1883. 
Selection of Miss White by Notre Dame singles out for reward and en­couragement a life devoted to the things of the mind and the spirit. 
.Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, presi­dent of the University, said in announc­ing the selection on this Laetare Simday: 
"To the gifted and scholarly Helen Constance White, a brilliant professor in English at the University of Wiscon­sin, and the author of several important literary works,, the University of Notre Dame is proud to award the Laetare Medal for 1942. Miss White's literary successes have been remarkable, but none more so than the devout Catholic life which she has achieved and which she admirably exemplifies through her talent­ed mind and heart." 
The medal was inaug^urated in 1883 by Notre Dame to give each year some rec­ognition to an outstanding member of the Catholic laity in the United States. It derives its inspiration from the Golden Rose, awarded each year on Laetare Sunday also, by the Pope to a layman. The list of recipients since 1883 traces the constructive course of Catholicity in this country. Many have been nationally known. Many others, and this was one of the purposes of the Medal, have done outstanding good for country and church, with little recognition. 
Miss White is a frequent visitor at St. Mary's CoUeg^e, Notre Dame, and a close personal friend of Sister °M. Madeleva, C.S.C, its president. Her books in the Notre Dame library are in constant de­mand by the students, a tribute to her literary excellence. 
The medalist was bom in New Haven, Conn., in 1896, and was educated at Rad­cliife College. After taking her M.A.. there and teaching at Smith Collie until 1919, she came to the University of Wis­consin, where she received her Ph.D.- in 

Award to Wisconsin Professor and Writer Recognizes "the Things of the Mind and the Spirit"; Is President of Univenity Women. 
Helen Constance White 
1924. She is widely known in educational work, and is president of the American Association of University Women and a prominent member of the Modem Lan­guage Association, the Modem Humani­ties Research Association, and the Amer­ican Association of University Profes­sors. She has held several outstanding fellowships at Wisconsin, including two Guggenheim, and a Henry Huntington Library award. 
Miss White achieved a place in liter­ary world with The Mysticism of WH-
Vam Blake, in 1927; EngHth Devotitmal 
Literature, 1600-1640 (prose) ,.whidi'was 
published in 1931; A Watek in the Night. 
considered to be one of her best woxka, in 
1933; Not BuHt WUh Hands, in 1935; 
The Metaphyaieal Poets, in 1936, and T» 
the ETid of the World, in 1939. In 1930 
she was editor, with F. Foster, of Vie­
torian Prose. 
The 1942 medalist adds to a list of il­lustrions American women whose works reflect the contribntions to chanwtw and culture which have bron^t women so large a part in the Imilding of America. 
In a world at war, with the emphasia on urgent physical needs, Notre Darnels selection of Miss IVhite provides an im­portant pause for recognition and re­flection in the fields of the spiritual and the intellectoal, the real and nitiniate objectives of the fi^t of the democracies. 
The Laetare Medal is recognized as the highest award made annually in the United States to a member of the Cath­olic laity. The name of the redpieot is announced on Laetare Sunday, the fonrth Sunday of Lent, a day set aside by the Church for rejoicing in anticipation of Easter. 
It was first suggested in 1882 when 
Prof. James F. Edwards soliniitted fhe 
project to the V»y Rev. IMward F. 
Sorin, C.S.C, at that time president of ~the University. 
The attractive medal is composed of a . soUd gold disc hong tzom a' gdd bar bearin g the inscription "Laetare Medal." The sentence. Magna est Veritas et praevalebit (Truth is mij^ty and irill prevail), is inscribed aronnd the edge of the disc "Fhe design of the medal is changed each year depending on the profession of the recipient. 
The name of the outstanding Catholic layman or laywoman whose distinction in a particular field of endeavor has re­flected {^ory upon the Catholic faith is selected from a list submitted to the president of Notre Dame and a Laetare Medal eomnuttee. Following a dose exam­ination of the acfaievemotts of the rec­bnunended persons, the committee sheets one for this^great hoitor. 

8 
UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS 

(Continued from page 2) tion and tiie National Catholic Educa­tional Association meetings in Chicago March 24-27. Father Cunningham, a member of the board of the North Cen­tral Association, opened the meeting with his paper devoted to the subject of re­ligion in education. His topic before the National Catholic Educational Associa­tion was "The American Educational Ladder of Tomorrow." • 
NEW COURSE ON CHINA 
A former member of the Chinese army 

and air force and native of Canton, 
China, Jackson Benedict Chung, senior 
engineering student at Notre Dame, 
opened a comprehensive two hour a week 
course entitled "Modem China" at the 
University on March 16. Culture, history 
and modem conditions, together with a 
study of the Chinese language, will com­
prise the subject matter of the course, 
which is open to students of the Univer­
sity and townspeople of South Bend. 
Chung, who is 28, came to America shortly after resigning from the Chinese Army, in order to continue his studies. He has lost track of his family through the Pacific crisis, and since has become a salesman, conducted a curio shop, and has held various other jobs at Notre Dame. His adaptation to American ways was evidoit in his appearance on the nation-wide "Vox Pop" program from Notre Dame in December. 
• DESVERNINE SPEAKS 
The distmguished jurist, author and lecturer, Eaoul E. Desvemine, of New York City, spoke at Notre Dame, Feb. 17 on the subject "Religion and the Law." Mr. Desvemine was the second speaker in the series by eminent jurists at Notre Dame this year, the first hav­ing been Dean Roscoe Pound of Harvard University. Mr. Desvemine is at present representing the steel industry on the governing board of the National Indus­trial Conference Board, and is chairman of its committee on industrial mobiliza­tion problems, which consists of 200 lead­ing indosttialists in America. Author of Demoeratie Despotism and Claims Against Mexico, Mr. Desvemine has had wide background in practically all legal experience related to finance and govern­ment rdations. 
HcCready Huston, well known to many Notre Dame men through his as­sociation with the late South Bend Neios-Timea, is now editor of Frontiers, a magazine of natural history published by the Academy of Natural Sciences, 1900 Kaee St, Philadelphia. He is an assodate member of the Notre Dame Club of Phfladelphia. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ROLL OF HONOR 
S^^'->> 
bisign Francis X. QaHce, '39 Lieutenant Howard Petschel, ex. '42 
Lieutenant Howard Petschel, ex. '42, today that he had the highest mark in of the Army Air Corps, was recentiy his religion class — and he was not a reported "as missing in action in the Far Catholic. Most students assumed that East" since March 3, which is the equiv­Howie was a Catholic because they saw alent of an announcement of his death. him in the chapel every day. But it was 
an army chapel that saw his reception 
The Religious Bulletin of April 1 said 

into the Church, his First Communion — of Howie: and his marriage just last Septanber." 
"Howie had promise of a brilliant ath­As was reported in the March ALUM­letic career dating from high school days. NUS, Ensign Frank Clarke, '39, was lost In his last spring practice here, he was when the naval supply ship, Pollux, went 
named for two awards of excelloice at aground on the Ne'n'foundand coast late his position as end. One student recalled in February. 
M*MIMfnillltt*IMMIIMI»tlM*t(*tlllllHtlMIIMlllll*UlllllltllltniflRl 
0.. 
C^MiaMOfif QifU 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the foUowing gifts to the Centenary Fund: 
AnonjTnous, Member of the Class of '40  ^  $250  
Notre Dame Club of Scranton  .  250  
Jasper Lawton, '11, South Bend  100  
Fred Sprenger, '30, Toledo.  .  .1  100  

Anonymous, Member of the Class of '90 100 Anonymous, Member of the Class of '20. 25 Anonymous, Member of the Class of '29..1 25 
HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C., President of the University. 
B" 
The Notre Dame'Aiumnus 


About Father Alexis Granger, C. S. C; 
Hundreds of Archive's Letters Testify to Saintly Character of Principal No­tre Dame Confessor of Early Years. 
By Rev. Arthur J. Hope. '20 

It was late in September, 1872, that ity7 Even his personal appearance, his Father Alexis Granger, prefect of relig­slight stoop, his almost cringing manner, ion at Notre Dame, received the pathetic gave the impression that he was afraid letter. This takes us back into the historT of some mysterious force that might, at ical past, gentlemen, and we ask your in­any time, attack him. His appearance dulgence while we tell you a bit about was not prepossessing. He wore his large the character of Father Granger. He biretta crushed down to his ears. He had came to Notre Dame in 1843, just one a mouth too large and broad for beauty. year after Father Sorin had arrived His spectacles, thick-lensed, gave him a here. And he left Notre Dame 50 years searching appearance. No, he was not later, almost to the day. He died July 26, handsome. But he was good. He was 1893. And in his heart were buried the virtuous. He was reliable. For 50 years, secrets of Notre Dame boys who, for 50 he was Father Serin's most reliable, help. years, had knelt at his feet and received So trustworthy, so dependable, so per­courage and consolation. It is no exag­severing. geration to say that Father Granger was THE Father confessor of Notre Dame. Today, you gentlemen of the campus No one, before or since has surpassed his have little idea of the make-up of Notre record. In the archives today, there exist Dame 80 years ago. At that time, Notre hundreds of testimonials, the acknowl­Dame students were a far different edgement of former students, written in group than now inhabits the grounds. By gratitude and affection, the stories of far the majority of students were of men eternally grateful for the comfort high school age and even younger. In and counsel received at Father Granger's 1860, when Lincoln and Douglas were knee. contending for the presidency of the 
United States, an insignificant young­ster, thin, pale, soft-eyed, Maurice Wil­He was a timid man, almost too timid. 
liams, came from Baltimore, Md., in­
Many of his associates thought of him 
scribed as a student in the "Junior" class 
that way. He was afraid of responsibil­
tIKMIIItlllllllltllll 

g.. 
a 

Qi{U 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude 
the following gifts: 
Anonymous, to the Nieuwland Memorial Foundation 5250 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Breitung, Ada, Okla., for the Dom Gregory Student Loan Fund. Amount to be added to initial contribution of ?400 100 
Collector's items from estate of the late Hugh A. O'Don­nell,'94. (Story in this issue ALUMNUS). 
E. Byrne Hackett, New York City, for the University Library. Copy of volume one of the Acta Sanc­torum, published 1643. 
HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C., President of the University. 
llllllllllllMtlltlMtllllllttllltlll • •••llllllltllltlltlllllltllltllllll lllllltllltlttHtllll • •ItlllltllllIMM 
at Notre Dame. This class pretended to ptepsre a young fellow as a reliable book-keeper and stenographer. He was 11 years old when he came to Notre Dame. He stayed five years. And dnring that time. Father Granger was his con­fessor and friend. 
It was the fashion of Notre Dame in those days to give prizes for nearly everything—neatness, politeness, regu­larity, as well as Latin, Greek, and alge­bra. Well, during his first year, Maurice got away with quite a few prizes. He was a bit of a piano player; he was rated high in politeness, penmanship, reading, spelling and elocution. If you want to check on me, you can read the catalogue for 1860-61. 
His second year was not so good. Maurice had slipped a bit. How that makes one think of you! Maurice was still tops in politeness, but he didn't run away with so many premiums.. He got a few, though. His public reading was the best in the "Junior" department, and he was in the fore, according to his teacher of geography. In the meantime, he kept close to Father Granger, and his soul was well taken care of, pure, clean, fervent. 
As to his third year, he was rated diligent, neat and polite. But aside from Christian Doctrine and i)ennianship, he was no great shakes as a scholar. At the Commenconait exercises of 1863, he gfot no prizes at aU. He somewhat re­deemed hinnsplf in 1864. He came close to winning the premium of Honor in the Junior department, and he ran away with the prizes for French and Si>anish. And he was rated the most polite fellow at Notre Dame. 
Well, to get back to the letter. Father Granger hdd it in his hands, and tears came to his brown eyes. When he raised his spectacles and dried his eyes, he read the letter again. 
Dear Father Granger: I write to make a request of you which 13 most sorrowful, and yet has its own proper joy in the pious dispositions that prompt it. My child—my dear son Mau­rice-—icishes me to beg of you the priv­(Continued on Page 12) 
T he Notre Dame Alumnus 
> > AUufuU 
". . . In Dr. John R. Tobin you inai/ revive a less venal; a 'more neighborly past. As you read of his eager, industri-OMS, and successful life you tvill have a greater respect for that America which gave its precious freedom to his fore­bears, making their ivay from New Or­leans to Gilberts to found their small dynasty here in the Fox River Valley. Dr. John R. Tobin is yet a vital force in this community; his boys and his neph­ew are to follow in his footsteps. He has served his neighbors faithfully; he has guided his sojis toivard a useful life. The world, at least our part of it, is a richer place because this man and his Mth and kin have dtvelt and worked here 

Two Notre Dame doctors and one No­tre Dame doctor-about-to-be are doing fine jobs of living up to the remarkable reputation for service which their father, Dr. John R. Tobin, elected to the Alumni Association in 1929, has built up through years of devotion to his prac­tice among his neighbors in the Fox River Valley of IHinois. 
This is the story of a remarkable "No­tre Dame family." To Dr. Tobin and his wife, of Elgin, HI., four children were bom: Paul G., '28, James W., '29, Alice, and John R., Jr., '38. 
Paul, at Notre Dame, was in the Knights of Columbus, the Chicago Club and interhall athletics. He finished in medicine at Rush Medical College of the University of Chicago in 1932. Special­izing in orthopedic and bone woric, he received further training at the Presby­terian Hospital, Chicago; Los Angeles 
Pictures by courtesy "Fox Valley Mirror" 
John R. Tobin, M.D. 
County Hospital, Los Angeles; and was house physician at the Good Samaritan Hospital of the same dty until he re­turned in 1936 to join his father in the Elgin Clinic. 
Dr. Jim Tobin participated in Notre Dame varsity track, was president of Ihe Fox River Valley Club, and active in interhall athletics, the Knights of Co­lumbus, the Chemists Club, and the Chi­cago Club. He received his M. D. from Rush in 1933, and served his internship at St. Luke's Hospital, until joining his father at the Clinic in 1935. Training in medicine, Jim specialized in urology. He is president of the St. Joseph's Hos­pital medical staif, Elgin. On Feb. 5, 1941, he was married to Miss Margaret 
H. O'Brien. 
The youngest son, John R. Tobin, Jr., while at Notre Dame was a member of the Knights of Columbus, the Student Activities Council, the Wranglers and the Academy of Science. He is finishing his senior year at Rush Medical Col­lege. He was recently elected to Alpha Omeg^a Alpha, the national honorary fraternity comprised of medical students of exceptionally high scholastic stand­ings. 
Now Mrs. Franklin P. Branagan of Mt. Vernon, N. Y;, Alice, the daughter, who majored in voice at St. Mary's, No­tre Dame, has attained fame as a vocal­ist; she has sung in the Chicago Civic Opera and at many concerts in the East. 

A nephew. Dr. Walter W. Tobin, was graduated from the University of Illinois Medical School, interned at Bil­lings Memorial Hospital, Chicago, and is now a resident dermatologist at Bil­lings. 
Paul G. Tob!n. M.D.. '28 James W, Tobin, M. D.. '29 John R. Tobin, Jr., '38 
Th e  Notr e  Dam e  Alumnu s  I I  
ELDER WATCHES CHAMPIONS  .  
STUDEN T  NOTE S  By wiii«mi s«„i.„. 42  Jack Elder, '30, left halfbMk in 1929  

WAR—AND MOVING DAYS 
March 23 took on the aj^earance of a general exodus and house-cleaning ex­traordinary when wax o£Scially dis­played its repercussions on the cam­pus. . . It meant the large-scale move­ment of 600-odd students from Lyons, Morrissey and Howard halls to doubled-up quarters in Dillon, Alumni and Cava­naugh. . . Every available means of transportation, including bicycles and improvised carts, together with Univer­sity trucks and strong-armed carrying methods, were employed in the campus-crossing, Badin bog and all. . . The gal­axy of 1,000 new Navy visitors is ex­pected about April 15. . . War develop­ments had its good side in the announce­ment that the era of two-hour final ex­ams had passed.. . Because of shortened programs and stream-lined schedules of examinations, compulsory quarterly ex­ams went into effect the week of March 
9.. . Exams lasted 50 minutes. . . Finals in May will be the same length rather than an hour and 50 minutes as prev­iously. 
SPANISH GROUP ORGANIZES 
Latin American students from Good Neighbor countries have formed a panel discussion group to help American stu­dents understand the Southern side of the Inter-American questions. . . Vital cog in the organization plans is the Rev. William F. Cunninghsjn, C. S. C., facul­ty moderator. . . Students participating in the program are: Louis Flores, Peru; Francisco Cabrera, Mexico City; Edu­ardo Alcayaga, Santiago, Chile; Ramon Aran jo, Cartagena, Columbia; Clarence Finlayson, Santiago, Chile; Mark Mc­Grath, Ancon, Panama Canal Zone; Pe­ter Robles, Mexico City; and Rafael -M­ducin, Mexico City. 
McGRATH REACHES REGIONALS 
Mark McGrath, sophomore from An­con, Panama Canal Zone, walked off with first place in the Northern Indiana District meet of the National Extem­pore-Discussion contest on Inter-Amer­ican Affairs at Purdue University, Laf­ayette, Ind., on March 19—emerging first in a field of 29 students from six different colleges. . . His topic in the finale was "The Hemispheric Front Against the Axis.". . . By winning, Mc­Grath qualifies for the Central Region contest to be held at Western Reserve University, Cleveland, 0., on April 14 at which 16 students from eight districts will compete. . . The winner at Cleve­land joins five other Regional victors on a South American tour next summer... Four of the eight Notre Dame speakers, under the direction of Professor George 
M. Reichle and the Rev. William Cun­ningham, C. S. C, marched into the fin­als with McGrath, — Rafael Aldudn, Mexico D. F., Mex.; Robert Nenno, Buf­falo, N. Y.; and Leo Raymond, Oak Park, ni. 
Morrissey's interhall debate team, coached by Roger Young, Providence, 
R. I., won the annual Wranglers-spons­ored campus tournament. . . Coach Young's lineup included: Frederick Funk, La Crosse, Wis.; James Newman, Clear Lake, la.; and John Utz, Roches­ter, Minn. 
WIGGINS HEADS MANAGERS 
New head nan of those "Men Behind the Scenes" of Notre Dame's successful sports program, the managers, is Jack ' Wiggins of Chicago... He becomes head manager of football. . . His football aides for the Centennial year are Jim Murray, Bronx, N. Y., stadium, and Art Keating, Aspinwall, Pa., equipment. . . Other managerial posts will be filled by: John Cullen, Rutherford, N. J., basket­ball; Frank Ebner, Grosse Point, Mich., track; Joe Callahan, Niagara Falls, N. Y., baseball; George E. Thompson, Gen­esee, N. Y., fencing and tennis; and Ed Bums, Waterbury, Conn., golf. 
AMES HEADS FROSH 
Perhaps it was the A-B-C-D arrange­ment, or it may have been the lateness of the schoolyear, at any rate freshmen with last names beginning with the first four letters of the alphabet won ofiBces • in the annual freshmen class elections... Dick Ames, Bengal Bouts finalist and all-campus interhall football guard from Zahm hall and St. Paul, Minn., was elected president. . . Other officers were: Charles Brown, Tulsa, OUa., vice-president; Thomas Dowdle, ChicagfO, secretary; Frank Cusick, Providence, 
R. I., treasurer. . . Howard Hall's ping pong team issued a campus challenge— before the Navy mobilization forced withdrawing to foreign halls. . . Tom Sweeney, Indianapolis, Ind., won the tournament with Gene Fdilig, golf-track star from St. Louis, finishing in the run­nerup spot. 
and foimer irish trMlk avtun, filled tte honor role as honoraty lefeiM at tiw 11th Bengal Bouts, Univexsi^ boiiiic tournament on March 17-18-19-21. . . The current secretary of tlie lOinbis Athletic Csnmiission lefeieed the 156­ponnd championship bout in wUeh Par­rell Quinlan, Lake Bomeseen, Vt., de­cisioned Ted Haley, Beacon, N. Y. . . Other champions crowned before the windnp crowd of 3,500 indade: Paul Malloy, Tolsa, OUa., 120 pound cham­pino for the third time; 127 poonds^ Joseph Hahoney, Ashtabula, 0.; ' 135 pounds—Sam Atwater, St. .Augustine, fla.; 145 pounds—Kermit Rousseve, New Orleans, La.; 165 pounds—Bill Mc­Namara, Baldwin, N. Y.; 175 pounds— Charies Waters, Chicago; heavywdtght —George KeUy, Chic^^o. . ..Last-min­ute surprise entry was Mike Hines, sen­ior football taeUe from Kewanna, Ind., who lost to Kelly in the windnp. . . Badin won the hall trophy and Tom Spencer, junior from St. Edward's hall and. Indianapolis, captured the sports­manship award. . . The Bengal Hisnon benefits to the extent of appnurimatdy $800, highest proceeds in the tourna­ment history. ' 
• 
DEBATERS DEFEAT STANFORD 
Coach William J. Coyne's debate team set a fine example for Coach Rank Leahy's football team on Oct. 10 next when the advocates of intdleetnal scrinunage defeated Stanford on Mardi 
24. . . Notre Dame's affirmative on the question, "Resolved, That the Federal Government should regulate by law iall labor unions in the United States," feat­ured James On)ea, sophomore fran Lowell, Mass., and Robert LeHense, jun­ior from Iron Mountain, Mich. . .The Easter vacation trip included the Grand Eastern tournament at Winthrop Col­lege, Bock Hill, S. C, on April 9-10-11. .. . On April 14 the Irish team meets Western Reserve at Cleveland before a Kni| ^ of Columbus audience. . . The weekend of March 27-28, Coach Coyne's men participated in the University of Wisconsin tournament, Madison .. . Other April dates induded Xavier U., and U. of Cincinnati, there on Easter Monday; University of Tennessee at Knoxville on April 9. 
CASASANTA-MEN TRAVEL 
The Universify Band, under the direc­tion of Professor Joseph Casasanta, spent the Easter vacation travdiing about the east... On Aprfl 5, the groop 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
gave concerts at Milford, Mass. . . The next two days, McAlpin Hotel Ball room. New York City, provided the scene of activity. . . Before returning west, the bandmen had stops scheduled for Scran­toa. Pa., April 8; Wilkes-Barre, Pa., April 9; Johnstown, Pa., April 10; Al­toona. Pa., April 11-12. . . Donal Petei-­sen, senior from Escanaba, Mich., is band president this season. . . 
SAVOYARDS OUTSTANDING 
The Notre Dame Savoyards, under the leadership of Professor Cecil Birder, '14, gave the campus one of the finest oper­ettas seen in several seasons with the presentation of Gilbert and Sullivan's 
H.M.S. Pinafore. . . Leading roles star­red Anthony Donadio, Baltimore, Md., David Curtin, Rochester, N. Y.; James Porcell, Jordan, Mont.; and Jerome Heinlen, Garrett, Ind. . . The feminine leads featured Miss Joan Birder, daugh­ter of Professor Birder and a student at St. Mary's college, and June Anderson of South Bend. . . Baseball Coach Cla­rence (Jake) Kline was an interested spectator. . . His daughter, Shirley, had a specialty part, the Horn Pipe Dancer. 
CASEY'S MEN PREPARING 
The campus council of the Knights of Columbus opened its busiest month of the year in April. . . The annual all-School —^formal dance, Casey's Ball, is the feature for Friday night, April 10. . . . Paul Kashmer, senior from LaPorte, Ind., is general chairman. . . On April 13-14-15, Maestro Tom Teamey of Chi­cago, presents the Knights next edition of the Old-Time Vaudeville- show, re­vived for the third consecutive year through the aid of the Bev. Eugene Borke, C. S. C. . . St. Patrick's Day took on a special occasion March 17 with the appearance of green carnations at every dining hall place. 
B» 
FATHER ALEXIS GRANGER 
(Continued from Pase 9) 

Uege that he may die at Notre Dame. Tlie physician who has attended him almost throughout his sickness has pro­nounced his life as near its close; and ardently desiring to prepare himself with all fervor for the great change that awaits him., he vnslies, while his strength is sufficient, to return to the spot where his early piety was strengthened during some happy years of his boyhood, and there yield up his innocent life to the God who gave it At home, where every physical comfort, and mast tender do­mestic intercourse surrounds him, he cannot find that spiritual atmosphere so cliaracteristic of Notre Dame, and for which he longs in the path his feet must tread. 
His affectionate heart, it is true, clings to tliese dear members of his family cir­cle, but, as he said to me a few days ago with tears dropping from his eyes, "the parting will be bitter, for if I leave them I sluM go knowing I have looked my last; but, after all, it loill only be anliei­pating death which will, in a few weeks, tear me from them. And oh, I cannot die liere where, though I can get the sacra­ments, I shall not have the daily and Iwurly comfort of religion that I need. And perhaps God will accept the sacri­fice since I make it for my souL" 
Will you accede to his request, and receive him into the infirmary or else­where where the sisters and the priests may prepare him, for his last end? I will watch over him. at night, for while God leaves him to me, I will never leave him.... Hoping that your answer may be speedy and favorable, I remain 
Tndy and respectfully, 
Valeria S. Williams 

The Scholastic for Oct. 12, 1872, says that the request was granted immedi­ately. 
YOUR NEW ADDRESS. PLEASE 
Uilitary service and defense industry employment are maldng more difficult than ever before the constant Alumni OSice problem of keeping current addresses for some 12,000 persons. If you have chanKed your address recently, please fill out this blank and return it promptly to Box 81. Notre Dame. Indiana. Thanks. 
Class-

Ner AUnst: Street­(Check n-faelher home Q or boiiness D) 
City­ ,  State  
OU AMraw:  Street- 
CSty—  :  State- 

N. B. If y«« can add same news about yoaivelf and or yoar N. D. friends, so modi tW better. 

hlHItlllHNiniHUIIHIIIIIIItlMllltllitttllllltni 
As we leaf throng^ the pages of the 

Scholastic for 1872, we come to the very . last issne, that of Dec. 28, and there we find the announcement of his death. Maurice Williams, a victim of tubercu­losis, died at Notre Dame on the 17th of December. A final paragraph is a fit ending to our story. 
".... A life always remarkable for its unwavering and lively faith in the Cath­olic truths which were his birthright and inheritance, was crowned by a death, peaceful and. holy, amidst Religious whose presence and surroundings for the last two months of his life, made his com­fort and support in the valley of the shadow of death. His last movements were to toipe the streaming tears from his mother's eyes, and to bid farewell to the priest, faithful and true, whose holy offices in his behalf ceased not in death." 
Father Granger went back to the pres­bytery. His heart was expanded in joy. A Notre Dame student had died well. In his mind, he was thinking of something he had often repeated to generations of Notre Dame lads: "The purpose of a Catholic education is to teach men, not only how to live good lives, but also to die good deaths!" 
EXECUTIVES' DUTIES 
(Continued from Pa^e 6). 

Hoar, manager of the campus laundry; 
Rev. John J. Reddington, C.S.C, pur­
chasing agent of the University; Patrick 
J. McGuinness, superintendent of main­tenance; Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C, director of the University golf course; William R. Dooley, graduate manager of publications; and Thomas J. Mills, director of the Rockne Memorial. The new articles also define the work of tiie tailor shop and the mimeograph de­partment of the University. 
The purpose of the articles is to con­solidate under central control the many phases of the business of the University which have expanded to substantial pro­portions along with the growth of en­roUment in recent years. The survey npon which the articles are predicated revealed that Notre Dame is operating on an unprecedented scale in its volume of business. Its non-profit nature, its lack of' capital oidowment, itis continuing aid to students, and its continuing policy of low cost to studaits, makes the efiScient conduct of its business phases increas­ingly TitaL The new articles also remove many burdens of administration from the president, leaving him free to face tlie major academic and administrative problems which are bringing education toward a new order.. ' 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 13 
By JOSEPH S. PETRiTZ. '32 

ATHLETICS 
TRACK 
We ended last month's report on a sad, plaintive note, you will recall. The track team had just lost to Michigan, the bas­ketball team had just dropped one to Michigan State, and the fencers had been nosed out by Chicago and Ohio State. 
But now it is spring. The air is full of rain, snow, and hope for the track, baseball, golf, and tennis teams, while memories of the winter sports program are pleasant, indeed. 
Coach Bill Mahoney of the track squad was a very dejected young man after the Michigan meet. He had figured the Irish to win, with a good deal of reason to back up his enthusiasm. They were nosed out by a red-hot team that was set for its evening's work. 

His only other crack at Michigan was to come in the Butler relays, and he began plotting his revenge immediately. Notre Dame repeated its Central Collegi­ate conference indoor conquest, making 48 points to Michigan State's 45, even though Capt. Ray Koy was unable to run in the 440, an event he had won two years straight, because of an infected, impacted wisdom tooth. Ollie Hunter, two-miler, Jim Delaney, shot putter, and the one-mile relay team, with Austin Jones substituting for Roy, all retained their titles. 
Take Butler Relays 

Mahoney made no eifort to key the squad for the Centrals, and the lads still squeezed through with a victory. He did key them for the Butler Relays the next week, however, and here's what happened: Notre Dame won with 331/3 points to Ohio State's 27, and Indiana's 
21. Michigan, which had won the title eight years in a row, finished Qut of the money. The Irish finished ahead of the Big Ten champions, and the Big Six titlist, Nebraska. With Roy back in form, the mile relay team won a thiQler from Ohio State in 3:21.4. The medley relay unit of Dick Tupta, Frank Conforti, Austin Jones, and Hunter finished a good second to Indiana's winners. The four-mile team of William Kelly, Hunter, Conforti, and Tony Maloney took third behind Illinois and Michigan. Circum­stances surrounding the four-mile event were unusual in that the third Illinois man was permitted to run an extra lap, and the anchor man one lap less than scheduled to run. Maloney was nipped at the tape for second place. 
Keith O'Rourke, junior high jumper, retained his Butler title at 6 feet 3% inches. Bill Dillon, junior hurdler, was shut out by a great field in the lows, but he captured third in the highs. Charles Murphy collected a third place tie in the high jump, and Charles Wiethoff cleared 13 feet, his best competitive effort, for a fourth place tie in the pole vault. 
Set New Record 

Fresh from this conquest, the mile team of Roy, Fehlig, Tupta, and Schiewe, rose to even greater heights in the Chi­cago Relays before some 15,000 fans, the largest indoor track crowd in his­tory. In their match race with Ohio State and Indiana they got a terrific battle from the Buckeyes, but a perfect pass from Tupta to Schiewe and the latter's estimated 48.5 anchor leg gave them a victory in 3:19.2, a new all-time Notre Dame indoor record and a new Chicago Relays mark. This also gave Notre Dame permanent possession of the Knox tro­phy, a handsome silver bowl, which goes to the team winning twice in three years, Notre Dame having won last year also. If no one wins twice in "three years, the team with the best time over that period takes the cup. So the Irish won on two counts. 
John Murphy, a freshman sprinter from St. Louis, found himself right at home in fast company. Running unat­tached, he won the qualifying heat for the sprint series. Unplaced in the 40­yard dash. Murphy took third in the 50­yard sprint, and second in the 5&-yard event. His total gave him third for the series behind the inimitable Herbert Thompson, and Lee Farmer, Iowa's Big Ten chcunpion. 
Another refreshing hapipening of the evening was Ollie Hunter's great bid for third place in the two-mile run, which was won, naturally, by Greg Sice^ '39,• of the New York A.C., Gilbert Dodds was second, and Joe McCInskey nosed out Hunter for third. Ollie was docked unofficially in 9:13, however, which is some 10 seconds better than his best pre­vious performance, and is the outstand­ing collegiate time to date this year. 
Getting around to Greg Kice who al­thoo^ an alumnus, is still active—and we're entering that remark in the na­tional understatement derby — well let the facts speak for themselves. He opened his indoor campaign Feb. 7, and he ran 10 races. Eight of them were over the two-mile distance. The world record was 8:58 by Don Lash when Greg start­ed breaking it. He was over 8:58 only once in ei{^t starts this year, running 
8:59.5. His "second-worst" times was 

8:55.1in his third appearance in a space of eight days, as follows: March 20— Chicago Relays, 8:53; March 25—Navy' relief meet in New York, 8:52.9; and March 27 — Cleveland K. of C. meet, 
8:55.1.
 His best time of the season, 8:52, made without noticeable opposition or help, came March 14 in the New York 

K.
 of C. meet. Between two-mile events, we almost neglected to mention, Greg found time to break his own world three-mile and two-and-a-half mile marks with performances of 13:45.7 and 11:32.^ re-, spectively. Both times, and'the accumu­lation of times in the two-mile'run leave. us so breathless that we can't even dis­cuss them. 


Outdoor Track Prospects 

We have not bothered asking Coach Mahoney about his outdoor prospects. They are undoubtedly good, but proba­bly not as fine as he, in the enthusiasm of his 25 summers and admiration of his boys,-would rate them. We're just not risking putting him on record. The sched^ ul^ we can confide, however, is inter­esting. The Irish will defend their, un­official Drake Relays championship, will try to advance trtaa second place in the outdoor Centrals, and 'will take a crack at the national championships..They 'will try to retain their Indiana State title, either at Notre Dame or at Lafayette. And they will meet Michigan State at home in a dual meet, travding to Coltmt­bia and to West Point for duels with Missouri and Army, respectively. The card follows: 
April 24-25—Dnke Bdairs at Des Hoinn Hmr 2—lOnoari at Cohnnbia Hay 9—MicUsan State at Notre Dame Mar 16—Array at'West Point Kay 2S—Indiana State Heet (Site undecided.) June 6—C.CC. Heet at If ilwuikee Jane 20—N.CJLA. Heet at Utteota, Xebr. .. . 
BASKETBALL 
The basketball season had practically mn its course when we left off a month ago, and we merely want to report that what looked like a dangerous slump ma­terialized into one at the end. Marquette, despite the presence of Coach George E. Keogan on the bench, won a 46 to 43 decision at Milwaukee, and it took a last-ditch rally to win the finale from Detroit at Detroit, 43 to 41. 
The Marquette win, in view of Notre Dame's 66 to 42 victory at home, came as considerably more of a surprise than Michigan State's 46 to 43 victory at East Lansing, following Notre Dame's 52 to 49 decision at home. These two defeats and the scare at Detroit constituted the slump mentioned above. 
The season's record of 16 victories in 22 starts is certainly not without merit, however. The Irish compiled one -winning streak of eight straight games, and took 12 out of 13 in a January-February run. The total of 1,045 points score was the fonrth highest ever made by a Notre Dame team, and the second highest total for 22 games or fewer, last year's team having made 1,062 in 22 contests. Oppon­ents made 906 itoints, the most ever scored against Notre Dame. This, we prefer to believe, is the fault of the race­horse game and not of a defense that was highly efficient, particularly against top-flight competition. The season's rec­ord left Keogan's percentage at .768 as compared -with .771 at the end of last season. He has won 315 games, lost 95, and tied one in 19 seasons. The Irish averaged 51.83 points at home and 42.3 away. They held opponents to 43.5 away and to 37.58 here. 
Butler's victory, 49 to 43, at Indian­apolis, was the first January defeat suf­fered by Notre Dame since Jan. 4, 1938, -when Minnesota won, 37 to 25, at Min­neapolis. The Irish have not lost a Jan-nary home game since Jan. 14, 1933, when Bntler turned the trick, 27 to 25. 
The record: 
Notre Dune, 49: Franklin, 30 Grest Lakes, B2; Notre Dame. iS Notre Dame, £1; St. Louis U., 22 -Wisconsin, 43; Notre Dame, 35 Notre Dame, 46; HicIiiEan. 40 Illinois, 48; Notre Dame, 29 Notre Dame, 40; Northwestern, 36 Notre Dame, S9; Harvard, 31 Notre Dame, 34; -Wasbington (St. Louis), 31 Notre Dame, 51; Syracuse, 35 Butler, 49: Notre Dame, 48 Notre Dame, 61; Nortliwestem, 43 Notre Dame, 62; Michigan State, 49 Notre Dame, 66; Harqaette, 42 Notre Dame, 46; KentucI^, 43 Notre Dame, 46; Great Lakes, 43 Notie Dame, 55; New York U., 43 Notre Dame, 70; Western Reserve, 39 Notre Dame, 57: Batler, 54 Michigan State, 46; Notre Dame, 43 
Marquette, 46; Notre Dame, 43 
Notre Dame, 43: Detroit, 41 

Sophomores dominated the list of 11 lettermen, taking six places. The second-year men who got sweaters follow: 
Bobby Faught, center who led team acorins: with 209 points, Cleveland Heights, Ohio; John Niemiera, Chicago, forward, third in acorins «Kh 137; Ray Knka. regular snatd ba n HsTK;, Mont.; Frank Carran, Sterling, ID., forward; Or­lando Bonicelli, Chisholm, Minn., snard; mnd John (Buster) Hiller, East Bemstadt. Ky., for­fvard. 
Capt. Art Pope, Chicago guard and forward; and Frank Quinn, Indianapolis center, were the only seniors to win letters. Junior lettennen are (Charlie Butler, Chicago, forward; Cy SiBSer, Jasper, Ind., guard; and Bob Rensberger, Nap­panee, Ind., guard, who was second in scoring with 140 points. Senior Manager -William P. Kelly, South Orange, N. J., was voted a letter. 
* 

FENCING 
The two 'tough ones" Coach Walter 

M. Langford's fencers had. left as we went to press last time resulted in an even split, the Irish losing to Wisconsin at Madison, 16% to 10%, then -upsetting a surprisingly powerful Marquette unit, 16 to lljthe next day at Milwaukee. The season's record of 5 -victories in 8 starts is not the best Notre Dame has ever had, nor the best Langford has had at Notre Dame. In -view of losses by graduation, enlistment, and conscription, however, it is an excellent mark. The epee team was particularly outstanding in li^ t of a shortage of blades, which forced cancellation of practice in this weapon. The blades are made in Europe. 
The Irish managed to nose out Illinois' Big Ten champions, 14 to 13, just as a year ago they defeated Chicago's con­ferences winners, 17 to 10. Herb Helton in sabre, Capt. Frank Veit in epee, and Angel Gonzalez in foil were outstand­ing. Gonzalez' brother, Ventura, has just won the freshman foils tournament, her­alding the inauguration of another of Notre Dame's famous brother combina­tions. 
The junior combination of Mdton, John Flynn, and Jim Madigan turned in the best total -victory record of any junior class in Notre Dame fencing his­tory. Because of the closeness of most matches, however, there was little oppor­tunity to work sophomores into the pic­ture for seasoning. The record follows: 
. Notre Dame, 14; Michigan State, 13 Notre Dame, 16; Purdue, 11 Notre Dame, 11; Cincinnati, 6 Notre Dame, 14; Illinois, 13 Chicago, 15; Notre Dame. 12 Ohio State, 14%; Notre Dame, U H Wisconsin, 16^ : Notre Dame, 10 ^ Notre Dame, 16; Marquette, 11 
GOLF 

Big news of the 1942 golf season, of course, is Notre Dame's sponsorship of the N.C~A.A. tournament June 22 to 27 over the Chain O' Lakes course of the South Bend Country Club, proceeds to go to the Navy Relief Fund. The 45th annual intercoll^ate championship is the only amateur tournament of national scope being played this year. 
Somewhere in the field of 175 to 200 coU^ans may be another Lawson Little, Bobby Jones, H. Chandler Egan, Jess Sweetser, Johnny Fischer, Tom Sheehan, Charley Tates, Paul Leslie, Sam Parks, Maurice McCarthy, Bob Babbish, Jack Westland, Watts Gnnn, George Dunlap, Freddie Haas, Willie Tumesa, Charles Kocsis, Walter Emery, or Larry MoUer —^these being a. few of the ex-collegiate stars who have gone on to international fame on -the links. 
Father George L. Holderith, C.S.C, varsity golf coach, is doing a major share of the tremendous amount of work necessary to the successful staging of such a championship. 
Meanwhile, he is also watching the skies closely in order to sneak his 1942 candidates out onto the practice tee be^ tween rains and blizzards. The Irish do not shape op as championship material, but with the advantage of an intimate knowledge of the foibles of the local course, they should be hi{^ in the final standings. Father Holderith -will build his unit around five lettermen: Gene Fehlig, who is again deserting the track squad to take his place in the No. 1 or No. 2 spot; Capt. BUly Wilson, secre­tary-treasurer of the National Intercol­legiate Golf Association; Jack Conrj-, University champion; Bill Fisher, and John Harrington. While this quintet ap­pears to have the starting jobs cinched, Tom Nash, Jack Hedges, Paul Malloy, Mel Wilke, and Southpaw Bill Moorhead -will be in the race. 
The compete schedule follows: 
April 18—^Purdue at Notre Dame 
April 25—^minois at Champaign 

May 2—Great Lakes at Notre Dame 
(Date tentative) 
May 4—^Minnesota at Notre Dame 
May 11—Wisconsin at Madison 
June 5—Midiigan State at East Lansing 
Jane 6—^Detroit at Detroit 

June 14—^Northwestern at South Bend 
June 22-27—N.CA-A. tournament at South Bend 
• BASEBALL 
Seven monogram -winners from 1941 form the nucleus of Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline's ninth squad. Five of them are battery men. Capt. Bemie Crimmins, all-Ameriean guard last Fal, and Hike Kelly have won sweaters behind the plate John Metzger, Subby Nowicki, and Bob (Bobo) Fischer, all right banders, are the monndsmen. Harold Smullen, and Norval Trimbom, a southpaw, are the most promising sophomore hnrlers. 
Andy Chlebeck, who captained last year's team and led the dub in batting with a .479 average, is the only letter­man outfielder available. He wiU be in center, probably flanked by Frank San­filippo, and John (Buster) Hiller, bas­ketball star, in left and right, respective­ly. Bill Stewart, Jr., son of the National league umpire; Dick Kisgen, and John Milliman are the other promising garden candidates. 
The infield has only one letterman available, George Sobek, who also starred in basketball. He is battling Jim Carlin for the second base post. Carlin, whose versatility will come in handy, is also under consideration for the third base assignment, with Sophomore Dick Grant his leading rival. The disposition of these assignments wQl be settled largely in hitting drills. Fred Gore, a smooth field­ing second sacker two years ago, is now at shortstop. Jack Tallett, 6-foot 3-inch junior, is at first base. 
The 1942 card, abbreviated because of the May 10 Commencement, follows: 
Apr, 7—Purdue at Lafayette Apr. 11—Ghicaso at Notre Dame Apr. IS & 16—Iowa at Notre Dame .\pr. 21—Northwestern at Notre Dame Apr. 22—Purdue at Notre Dame -\pr. 27—Northwestern at £^mnston Apr. 29—Michigan at Ann Aibor May 2—^Western Michigan at Kalamazoo May 4—Michi^n at Notre Dame May 9—Western Michigan at Notre Dame 
TENNIS 
Despite the loss of three of last year's first six men, Coach Walter M. Langford rates Notre Dame's 1942 tennis prospects the best in history, hastening to point out that the schedule is the most ambi­tious ever arranged for the Fighting Irish. 
"It's hard to tell who will be our No. 1 man, or how the first four will line up," says Langford. "We should be some­what stronger in the first four positions, but not as strong as last year in the No. 5 and 6 spots." 
Capt. Jack Joyce, No. 2; John Walsh, No. 5; and Norman Heckler, No. 6, have been graduated. Captain-Elect Dan Ca­nale, Memphis, Tenn., No. 1 last year; Olen Parks, Mishawaka, Ind., No. 3; and George Biittner, Schenectady, N. Y., No. 4, are back. 

Supplementing them are Bobby Faught, Cleveland Heists, Ohio, sopho­more basketball star; James (Bud) Ford, Alhambra, Calif.; and Lyle Joyce, Tucapau, S. C, brother of last year's captain, all newcomers; and Fred Dootd, Mishawaka, Ind.; and Nidc P^paa, South Bend, holdovers. Faught, formerly No. 10 in the nation in boys' tomis, was schoolboy champion of Ohio. 
By dropping Detroit and adding Illi­nois and Wisconsin, the Irish have stif­fened the schedule considerably. Lidnded are the top Big Ten teams—^Northwest­em, Chicago, and Michigan—as w<ll as the usually-potent Michigan State squad. 
The schedule follows: 
Apr. 17—^Michigan State at East Lansine .4pr. 18—Michigan at Ann Arbor • Apr. 21—niinois (site undecided) Apr. 25—Kentucky at Notre Dame Apr. 28—^Western Michigan at Kalamazoo . Apr. 30—Indiana at Notre Dame May 2—Wisconsin at Madison May 7—Chicago at Notre Dame May 9—Northwestern at Notre Dame 
Hugh A. O'Donneli Gifts 
Testimonials to the active, interesting, and progressive life of one of Notre Dame's outstanding alumni, Hu ^ A. O'Donneli, '94, former president of the Alumni Association, became the property of the University Library in the form of' rare books, autographs and paintings, Paul E. Byrne, the librarian, an­nounced recently. The gifts provided for by the -will of the late Mr. O'Donneli in­clude autographs' of some of the world's best known characters, (among them President Roosevelt, the late Father Francis P. Duffy and Eamon de Valera), 17 autographed books, and an oil painting of the famed New York City alunmus by the artist Nikol Schattenstein which now has a featured position oh the east wall of the journalism room in the Li­brary. 
The career of one of Notre Dame's outstanding journalists, which began as a Scholastic editor in his undergraduate days, finally blossomed into a keynote position as assistant business manager for the New York Times. Mr. O'Donneli was a founder of the Notre Dame Club of New York and one of its most active members. He had innumerable friends among Notre Dame men and was for many years a "one-man onployment agency" for Notre Dame men in New York City. 
Notre Dame, in addition to a valuable collection of letters, books, and paintings, benefits according to Mr. O'Donndl's wiU by the "Hugh A. O'Donneli Award," which provides a gold medal each year to the outstanding senior journalist, a prize established as a tribute to a de­ceased brother,-James F. O'Donndl. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
TJONOSED for his ontstandiBC ( 
•"• hotions to the civic wdfue af To-­ledo, 0., Fred A. Spienger, 'M, in Jan­uary leeoved the aanoal distiacniaM, service award of the Janior Chamber «rf Commerce of Toledo at its anmial Foand^; ers* Day hanqnet, attended hy 200 hbsi-^ neas, and civie. leaders and mHitaiy offidals. Bcfv. S. C. Mkbdfdder, pastor of St. Paul's Lutheran Chnrdi and dwir-. man of the dtisen eomnnttee of award judges, presented the hey. 
In preaoitins the award Mr. Uehel^ fdder lemaiked, lb. Sprenger, wkaoa character, aUUty, integrity and liqpnta­
ncd A. Spfcn^Cf 
tion axe of the hii^est and whose service to the dty has been given tmadfisUf, symbdiies the Christian and Aouxican spirit. 
"Of all the things he has done^ not one has been for posonal s^ory and never has he sonc^t the limelit^t. A lot of little things he has done throni^ the years have aeenmnlated and riesalted in big things. One of the Iriggest aeea»­plishments, for which the dty is grate­ful, is the introduction by lum of gnnd opera." 

Fred is a native of Port Clintaii, Ohio, and has lived in Toledo 21 years. Amoof the most devoted and active of Notre Dame mm he is a former president of:; the Notre Dame Chd* of Toledii, and a: member of the Kiwanis Club, tiie Holy Name Sodety, the EDcs, S]dvaniai~Cban- ,. try Club, and the Old Newsboy^ Good­fdlow Association. He was chairman of \ the Toledo Central Hig^ Sdiool financial campaign for three yens and was active in the membership campaign of the To­ledo Zodogica] Sodety. 
« M

ALUMNI CLUBS 
CENTRAL OHIO Lwto a Huilv. '33^ 2357 tiTtncston ATC . Cafamkaiw PSM. : Daniel F. Cwmon, ^39, t Bart Braad SU Celomlnu, Sec Cleveland notes from Columbus: The retreat sponsored by the Cleveland Club under the direc­tion of Kar] E. Martersteck and Clayton E. Le­roux, took place Feb. 20 to 22 inclusive at St. Stanislaus Retreat House, Palmer, O., under the capable Jesuit priests. Father Bums and his as­sistant. Father Willmes. In attendance vrere Rob­ert Butler, Dan F. Cannon, T. E. Carey, Philip Doell, John J. Dore, William H. Dore, Norman J. Greeney. Joseph E. Hanratty, Clayton E. Leronx. Gcorffe J. Leronx, K. E. Martersteck. Edward Murray. Philip Prendenrast. Jerry Reidy, John J. Reidy, and Ridiard A. Wcppncr. Father Mike Mor­iarit}*. CS.C., frave a fine talk of encouragement for future Notre Dame retreats. 
Norman Gre«ney lived next to me during the retreat, but Tve had to u-ait until Sunday evening: to talk over old times. Norman, the proud father of two beautiful girls, can be reached at the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, Cleveland, and "would like to hear from his old friends. He told me that John Qnlnn. father of five, is secretary to Hugh Mulligan of the Asbestos Pipe Covers Union in Chicago. 
We missed Tom Byrne, the famous end of 1927 and 192S, who has been associated ^ith the Ohio Bell Telephone Company, Cleveland, since his graduation. Tom is directly responsible for the beginning of these retreats in Cleveland. 
Ernie and Ed Killeen. owners of the Terminal Garage, Cleveland, a good place to park (plug), also made the retreat. 
Hie Central Ohio Club is still holding its weekly luncheons at the University Club in Columbus. We extend an invitation to all alumni and friends passing through the capital city to stop and lunch with us. 
Dan F. Cannon 

NEW JERSEY Jolm J. Winkerry, '28, 2tO Park Are., Batk­erfaid, Prem.; Tsfcjr Kramer, ex. '36. MS Onuise Baad. HontcUir, Sec 
Hie Uarch 2 meetinsT of the club was a lively affair and was graced with several Ion? lost but not forgotten brothers. John Porcorro -was there and told ns of his impending date with Uncle Sam—^tentatively set for the middle of April. Art Malkem also scaling the legal ladder will soon be in service. Doac O'Brien, of Slawah, N. J., now with Wright Aeronautical in Paterson is also counting the days for his send off party. 
Dan 0*Neil and President Winbcrry went over to the Teaneck High school on March 18 to enter­tain some prospective students for Notre Dame. A like symposium was conducted by Freadent Vfin­berry and CUlk Beynolds in Elizabeth on March 8 at the Fingry School. 
Our part in Universal Notre Dame Night will be held at the Essex County Country Club in West Orange again this year. This will be the last time that we can hold the affair there be­cause it is soon to be razed to make room for new homes. Oaifc Bejnoldi and Norm Jandoli are co-chairmen for the affair this year. Plans are bang made to accommodate one of the greatest turnouts in years. Hie lads feel that this is the ocie big informal meeting of the gang for this year; and Notre Dame will be well represented 
The 1940 - 1941 Alumni Board 
Host Be7. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., '11, DJ),, New T<»fc City honorary Presidmt Haziy F. Kelly, '17, Detroit and Prtidmit 
Fnderick T. Hahaffey, '17, Indianapolk, laL .„.JVrrt Viea-Preaiint Alfonso A. Scott, "22, Los Angdea, Calif. James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dam^ bid. _ ^eefretary-Treamrmr William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame^ lad. .-Attistant Searttmry Edward F. OToole, "26, Chicago, DL ^^—Dirtetor to lt4M John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Midi. Direetor to I$4M William J. Mooney, Jr., '15, Indianapolii, bd . ZKrwstor to 1§U Bev. Michael U Moriarty, '10, Mentor, (Mio _ Dirtetor to l$tM 
Ray J. Eichenlanb, 15, Colombns, OUo 
with Nen'ark's Commissioner Joseph BE. Bynw guiding the evening in the role of toastmaster. Toby Kramer 
OKLAHOMA Robert H. Siegfried, '37, 305 National Bank of Tolsa Bldg., Pres.; Gerald K. Denoran; '40, Tulsa, Okla.. Sec 
The Notre Dame Club of Oklahoma is in full accord with the information which we have re­ceived pertaining to the endowment drive for the University among her alumni. We realize that she must have help and I know that you can count on us in Oklahoma to do our part. Please ex­press these sentiments to Fatfacr O'DonnelL 
The third week in November we had our annual fall dinner at the Tulsa Club, with some 25 in attendance. The meeting, called by President BiO Sherry, *19, was in honor of our former president, newly appointed member of the Lay Board of Trustees, li, A. LaFortnne, *1S. Joe, as yon know, has been one of the most outstanding leaders of the alumni in this vicinity. The group feels they were greatly honored by having one of their members selected for such a post. Mr. LaFortnne told of his association with the University. An election was held and the following were elected: Robert M. Siegfried, '37, president: John llaian. vice-president; Gerald K. Donovan, '40, secretary; James M. Beidy, '32, treasurer. Lloyd F. Werley. '40 was then chosen as chainnnn of the annual Notre Dame dance. 
The Christmas Dance was held Dec. 27 at the Mayo Hotel in Tulsa with more .than 450 people there. There were a number of alumni over the state attending. John Shaw, of Oklahoma City; John Hahoney, of Enid; Edgar B. Maggi, of Sapulpa, were -anibng them. 
We are very glad to have Joseph V. Mooney, '30, among us. Joe, who is entering into the spirit of the club has been living in Chicago and has been associated with the Eeelox Carbon Paper Com­pany but his home is back in Pennsylvania. 
Carl J. Senger, '37, was married to Bemice Becker, Dec. 27 in Tulsa. Charies H. Becker, at­tending the University, acted as his beat man. and Robert BE. Siegfried was one of the ushers. 
Geotge G. VDc, '31, who married a Tulsa girl and was located here for several years coaling the University of l^ilsa, has been on Wake bland. Word was received from George immediately after the war was declared bnt since Wake haa baen taken nothing has been beard from him. George has been at Wake acting as physical direetor for 
JB%-0§M» Direetor to l»ta 

a company that has been doing some contracting work there. 
James E. Wade, '33, is located in Portland, Ore.. where he is instructing in the University. Joseph 
F. Bams, '40, of Oklahoma City, is now located in Washington, D. C, working for the govern­ment, so his mother informed us. William E. Cenry, '37, is now located in Shreveport. though he still calls Tulsa his home. 
~ 1 just ran into the mother of Clay Murray, '37, 

and through her I learned that Clay is one of the 
boys the U. S. Marines took out of that university 
dassiiication that was established in about '35 or 
'36. He is now a first lieutenant and is located in 
Iceland. 
Robert M. Siegfried 

PANAMA—CANAL ZONE 
Bon. Goillermo Patterson, Jr., '12, P.O. Box TU, Panama, Rep. of Panama, CJC, Pres.; Lieut. CoL Benjamin DnBois, Headauarters CJ>.C., Qaarry H(a, Canal Zone, CJL, Sec. 

The club is as this is written planning an eve­ning dinner meeting for St. Patrick's Day. 
Dr. Gaillerao Pattenon. '12, president of the dob. was recently elected preadent of the Canal Zone Bar, a very signal honor for the American lawyers to choose a Panamanian as their presi­dent. 
Last wedc when I was out at Pan-American Air­

port checking passengers aboard the Stratoline'r 
for Miami, I met the wife and baby daughter of 
Jerry Kane, '38, who were on their way from 
Lima, Pern, to Blinneapolis; Jerry will follow in 
June. I was best man for Jerry and Katie when 
they were married here in Panama at Gatun in 
July, 1940. 
Joe Harrington, *39 

The soldiers out in the jungle positions are particularly enjoying the football pictures. I'm going to have than shown at our Notre Dame ban<inet, to be held at the Union Club in Panama City on, the night of March IT. 
Raymond R. Brady, Major, JJi.G.D. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) Cbicacs W. Hatdag, '25. Seatii Bend Trib­
•ae, Pm. : Jawfli W. Ny9m. tS. Coart Heaae. Saath Bend. See. 

" At a Feb._ 23 board of directors meeting in the 
Hotel LaSalle, Claienee W. Hatdins was elected 
president of the dub. succeeding. R. FWyd Searer. 
1k«a u L. Bicker* Sr. was oiade hoooraiy pres­ident; and BcT. CkmOa Canr. CS.C^ of Kotre 
ADDITIONAL MILITARY MEN 
Dame, chaplain. Otiter oSieats are Waltar K. LaiwfM< viee-PTCfident: Jaas»k W. Njiksa, seen­
(Inciudins names received up to March 28] 
tary, and Jaata S. Meefcan, tieaairar. 
The seholaiship committee headed by J. Fraalt aOlei. and eondstins of Paal H. BaOer. WiHiaa 
B. Dealer. Heitert E. Jeaes, Jaiu i B. Hechan. and flierire A. Sweeney, is eonsiderins applica­tions of high school seniors in the St. Joseph County. 
The scholarship, worth a total of $1,190 in combined cash and employment credit in the Uttivernty. may be held for a mn-riirmm of ei^ t semesters. Hie applicants must show a need for linanriil assiitsnee in ord^ to attend eoUese and most, in addition, sive evidence of exceptional intellectual ability and mmsual all-aronnd accom­plishment in hi ^ sdiooL 
Ftmds fkir the scholarships are derived partially from the net proceeds of the annnal dvie testi­monial Imnqoet sponsored by the dub to honor the Notre Dame football team. 
TUCSON. ARIZONA TM A. WUM, Ob •». B U (Zt. Pcesi; Fad Vmtamt, •». UU B. Sai St. Bse. 
Tbcson has been' ezperiendntc an exodos of Kotra Dame men. We are glad to note that for some it has been a case of recuperated health and a letom to their fidds of interropted activity. However, it is readilns a stage where we need rct^Iaeements. 
First to leave was Ckailes O. WeilkaAcr. '40, who was transtered from the ^cso n Air Base. Two days ago be letomed and is agidn stationed bete having had temporary assignments at four different Air bases daring the past three months. 
'33, has left here to make his home in California with his brother Ed D. Bad­dats. ex. 'S5. 
Baibj ScUraDi. 'S5, found relief of his asthma, so he has retomed home to Gary, Ind. 
Kca Krips. '3«. left Ilia home in Sooth Bend aboot a year ago becanse of sinus trouble. He Iiad been feding tops so left ^cso n for some destina­tion unknown to na. 
Via D. Hengcakadi. ex. '26, will soon have left Tucson to make Us home In ^ver (Sty. M. K. Vin's leavinc is a sincere personal loss as well as a serious loss to our Tteson dob. Vin came here about'lS years ago with a very short life expec­tancy. He 9ent tbe better part of the next di^t years in bed. His was a grim fiiht—long and hard and uphill all the way. Vin has been woddng for about six years now—trying to make up for tlioae kst years. He has been a hard booster for Notre Dane and tirdess in his efforts. 
For several years tlie action and life of our dub has been Vim lfi»i.is>arli Vin is well known timu^wot th« state. toOk' espedally for his ef­forts in the pmtsetiail of wild life and the short­ening of eertwn hunting seasons. Many yonng­stsn now liaive gists , otlieis have eorreetad virion, still oOers have aii^t beesase Vin eonld make friends. Ha reeantly redgned as prendent of the lions Chib. T^wsoa is kdng a good dtizen; eadi of us is lodng a troe friend. Good lock, Vin. Ton are a son~o< Notre Dame. 
Rank J. Baticr. of Cleveland, a student at Notra Dame in Oe '80s witii his wife spent the winter in Tucson. Bs is tiie father of five Notre Jsha P. Bntlsr. '27. of Cleveland: I J..»rilsr. Jr.. 'SO. of Chicago: Bakert W. *, 'U-. Akcrt A. Budsr. 'S8, and Chailts E. 
ex. '40, an of Lakewood. O. 
Pa d Du&ad 

Alexander, Edward B.. '41, Hdqs. Co., Station Complement, N.YJ>.E.. Fort Dix. N. J. Ames. Bichard F.. '40, Det, 4th WeaOier Squad­ron. 7Tth Air Base Sa.. Shaw Ildd. Sumter. 
S. C. 

Bertding, Jdu B.. '38. 2nd lieat., TT. S. Marine 
Corps B«serve, Ifarine Mt Station. Hian^, Fla. Borer, Harold W.. '40, Ensign, Naval Bcaetve. Bowes. Bickard J.. '38. C-II. HcCulIodi HaU. 
Soldiers fidd. Boston. Uass. Boyle. Bobert W.. '41. 414th School Saaadron. Flight A, Keesler Fidd, Miss. Bruno, William B., '37, XT. S. Naval IVaining School, Norfolk, Va. Byrnes. Matthew S.. '41. Ensign, IT. S. Navy Air Station. Fensacola, Fla. Baddy. Edward O.. '41. Barracks 13-16, Corpus Christi, Tex. Bums, Martin T.. '3T, Ensign, U. S. Navy. Carty, Ikontas F.. '41, Co. C, 8th Bn., Fort Me-Cldlan, Ala. -. Conkling, Emmctt V.. '34. 2nd laeut.. Electronics Training Groop. Fort Monmooth, N. J. Crotty, Thomas T.. ex. '42. Ward 14. Station Hos­pital, Fort Jackson. S. C. Crowley, James H, ex. '25, Lt. Com., U. S. Naval Beserve. Dixon. Slwrwood. '20, Uent. CoL. 129th Infantry. Camp Forrest. Tollahoma. Tenn. 
Doyle, Lawrence A., '39. Det. Medical Dept. Sta­tion Hospital. Camp Forrest. IVillahnina. Ttenn. Duffey. Babert F., ex. '44. hoqiital apprentice 2nd 
class. Naval Training Sti>ti<m. Co. 141. New Port. E. I. Dunn. Edward B.. '36. Great Lakes Training Sta­tion, Great Lakes, lU. 
Elicr, Donald L.. '36. U.S. Naval TVaining Sdiool. Norfolk, Va. Essick, JasMs H., '41, Siiuadron G, Grany V. IT. S. Army Air Corps. Maxwdl FIdd, JUa. 
Finnctan, Pattid J., ex. '43, Endgn, Naval Avia­tion, Fensacola. Fla. Finneran, Theaus C , ex. '42, Chemical Dept.. U. 
S. Army, Fort Sill, Okla. 

Filck, Frank, '39. Ensign. IT.S.S. Prairie SUte. ISBth St. and Hudson, New York City. 
Gagnier, James L , '37, 64th Air Base. Goodfelkrw fldd, San Angelo, Tex. Gaal. Fiaads J., '36. IT. S. Naval Training Sdwol. Norfolk, Va. . 
Higfcy. Kennetk E., Jr., '39. Btry. C. 29th C.A.T.B.. Camp Wallace. Tex. Hoffert. William G.. '35. Sergeant. U. S. Army. 
Kdues. Paal G., '41. Battery "C." 29th C.A. Tmg. Bn.. Camp Wallace. TIex. Kaharick. Jase»k U . '38. company mmmsTider 140th Co.. Naval Ttng. Station, Great Lakes; ID. 
Lancaster, Leen L , '39, Corp., Hesdipurtan 27tii Dividon. Judge Advocate Section, A.P.O. 17, Ontario. Cslif. 
LaaeiMm. Fraads J„ '41. Co. F, Caaadates Class M.C.S.. IT. S. Msrine Corp^ Qusntiea. Vs. tsst^—. Hagk. '3C. Fli ^ 23—367 S.S.. Jeffcrsen Bsrrscks, Mo. Levender. Befcert W.. '42, IT. S. Naval Beserve Air Base; Glenview, lU. 
Levi, JaMS K, '37, Cadet, 410 Sduol Sonadraa. Army Air Coeps. B. T. C. Shcppard FMd. Ttx. 
MaMilias. Artkar D , Jr.. '41. Naval Service. 
Mslsaiy. lUMp J.. 'SO. Lieut. Ibrins Barracks. Boaaevdt Bead. Vieoaes Island. Ftacto Kico. Maxcy. Jsha K . ex. '44. Co. D. 1st Ftatoon. 7th 
Training Bn.. Caaip Lee. Ta. McAalffe. Jaka K. '39. Btry. D. 8th Bn.. Fort EnaUs. Vs. McDcvitt, Jamca C Jr.. '35. Ueut. Co. B. 1st St. Tkac Bset. Fost '»«""»"r Ga. McFadaae. La* P., '3C. Ueut, Ha. Btir-. 1st Bn.. USth F. A.. Fort Leonard Wood, Mo. McNally. James K, sx. '42.68thMstetisl S«aadr6a. Bccmit Detadiment, Lawaon ~fleld. Fort Ban­
ning. Ga. McNally, Jaacili M.. '37. Endgn. Naval Bcaerve. Meaasg; Psal K. '40. Panama Ctoal-Zoos. Marpky. WOBam C 'S3. SOUt Tsdi. Sdiool aiuad< 
ron. Barracks 789, Scott Fidd HL Naewm. Maaiice B.. '40, Aviation Cadet, BU«. UO, Booas <29, MJLS.. Pensseob. Ffa. 
Nsrik. PkOp K, '39, licat, 142nd bf. M(h Div.. AssTt to FU>lie Bdstkms Officer, BtakSi Corps Area, Fort Sam Houston, Tex. 
Oihcrss, C Card, Jr.. '41, 2nd lieut , Army'Air Corps. Victoria. Tex. 
Pkdaa. Edward H.. ax. '40, Air Corps Advanced Hying Sdwol, Stodcton FIdd. CaBf. 
Plamascr. James W., '40, Ha. 1st C.A.T. Det. SJ.P.E., Unit Pasooad Seetion, Nortli Garri^ SOB, Fort McDowdl. CaBf. 
J.. Jr.. ex. '35. 2nd Lieut.. Quar-Supply. Normoyle, Tex. 

Qstaa. Gari, '40, Sbat Finance Tmg. Bn., Co. D.^ First Platoon, Fort Benjamin Harrisoa. lad. 
I W.. 'St, Hdas. Co., Station Cam^ , M.Tf.K. Ptet Dix, N. J. B« '41, Ho. and H«. Co.. Sr4 Armorad Div., CSssap Pelk, La. Bktar. Bsktit BL. ex. '43. U. 8. Army Air Oocps^ Brooks PIsM, Tax. Btvdl; Jalm J^ '42, IT; & Naval ftaining Statioa.. aaat Lakaa. in. Bisik. Jskn W, J c '38. COL B , 5tk a M. Tms. 
Bact, Banadm sn . Firt Warran. Wyo. Billliagi ; Bakert C '40, Hd«a. 1st Arassas* ' Goips. Fact WwninK Ga. Basnsy. Ifcsama B . "sa. Stordteepei^-aiid dssh. 
IT. a Naval Tkainias Station. Great Isdns; DL 

Tsdars. Bakert A., ex. '34. Caasp Loon . Gala^ ~-----. Many C '40, Aviathm CUet, Naval Air-Station. Jadoonvnie, Fla. 
Wdaamaa. Fiaads 6 , Jr.. '38, 2nd lisst.. Air-Cocps, Goodtdlow Fidd, Saa Aagda, Tax. 
WAk. WflBam J;, ex. '41, Aviatka Cadet. 40* SdMol Squadron. Shcppard Field. WicUta lU K Tsx. . 
WMsms, HaisH A.. '381 308 East Lake Ave.< Baltimorsb Md. WkMT. Bsy K, -S*. Basic School. Navy Taid.. PkBadsWda. Pa. 6 , '40. FHgkt TValaias; Nava> I Aviatkm Bass. New Orisaas; LB. 
Zdkr. Csasas M, '«1. 1210 Cteps Azsa Sscvies. lUt. Qaartermastsr Det. Ftat TMtea. N. T. 
» )» 

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Pessy Brant and John A. Donahne, ex. '38, of Seattle. Wash. 
Miss Helen Ridsely and James Lauerman, Ml, of Youngstown, O. 
• 
Marriages 
The marriage of Miss Adelaide Meiser and WiOiam B. Besaor. ex. '27, took place March IT in South Bend. 
Miss Kathryn Schuell and Forrest R. West, '31. were married ICardi 14, .in Crown Point, Ind. 
Hie marriage of Miss jBemiee Becker and Carl 
J. Seiiscr. 37, took place Dec 27, in Tulsa. Okla. 
Miss Carlotta Elizabeth Schebler and WiUiam 
V. Jordan, '37, were married Feb. 14, in Daven­port, la. 
The marriacB of Hiss Boberta Thompson and Corp. Frand* T. Fatrill, '39, took place Feb. 28. in Fort Sill. OkU. 
Hiss Hartha Smith and Ward Rafferts', '41. were married Feb. 11, in Kansas City, Mo. 
The marriage of Hiss Betty Sholtey and Robert Eisner, ex. '41, took place Feb. 22. in Niles. Mich. 
Births 

A daughter was born to Mr. and Mrs. Artlwr Suffirali, '27, on March 1 in St. PauL Minn. 
Mr. and Mrs. Franos Jones. '29, announce the birth of a son, Patrick Francis, on March 5, in South Bend. 
A son, Louis W., Jr., was bom to Dr. and Mrs. Loais W. EspMito, '31, recently, in Rutland, Vt. 
Mr. and Hra. Umr d HcCIaBen, '31, announce the recent birth of a son, Edward G., m , in Rutland, Vt. 
A son, John Jameson, Jr., was born to Mr. and Mrs. Jaka Staanton, '32. on March 7, in Haywood, lU. 
Mr. and -Hra. Jaha H. Crimaiins, '33, announce the Urtfa of a aon, John Michael, on Feb. 10, in Wadiinston, D. C. 
Mr. and Hra. Hany BL Bardi^ '34. announce dw birth of a danaiiter, Mary Alice, on Jan. 28. in Brooklyn. 
A ion was boni to Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. ''^^ — '34, on Feb. 2S, in Halartic, Quebec. Canada. 
Mr. and Mrs. WOKaa F. Byan, '35, announce tha biith of a dan^ter, Hardi 12, in South Bend. 
•
 ilaiit^^rr. EUeen, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. JA a Laritaik. 'St. on March 2, in Schenectady. 

N.
 T. 


Mr. aad Mn. Taslla C. McCann, '37. announce tlis birtli of a daughter, Mary Bleen, on March 1. in GaxdcB Otr, U U N. T. 
A aon m a bom to Dr. and Mrs. James Downey, '37, oa Nor. 24, in St. loois. 
Ur. and Hrs. Jaaaes F. McKanaa, Ph.D., '3», an­nounce the birth of a dan^ter, Marr Ann, on Jan. 23, in Wyandotte, Midi. 
Mr. and Mrs. Vincent DeCaataey, '39, announce the birth of a son, Vincent W., Jr., oa Ftt. U, in Kansas City, Mo. 
A daughter, Suzzanne Carol, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Pick, ex. '39, on Feb. 20, in West Bend. Wis. 
Mr. and Mrs. James H. Lyadi, '40, announoe the birth of a daughter, Elizabeth Ann, on Feb. 9, in Spokane, Wutsh, 
Deaths 
News of the resent death of Heair Patridt Barry, IX.B., '01. of Beaumont, Tex., reached the campus via a wire to the President's office from Clyde Broussard, '13, of Beaumont. 
.A. revered legend of tiie Notre Dame campus, the beloved Dr. JaiMa J. Wabh. SeJ>., '11. re­cipient of the 191( Laetare Medal, noted ^lyiieian and anthiv, and antiiority on the hialocr of the Catholic Chnrdi, died in a New York hospital March 1, at the age of 7S. 
Dr. Walsh was a frequent lecturer at tile Uni­versity, and visited the campus almost annually for many years. He participatad aetivdy in the 1933 Golden Jubilee of the I,aeUre Medal. 
Dr. Walsh was bom in Arehbald, Pa.. April 12. 186S. He received iiis A.B. decree &<aiB Fordham Univernty at the age of 19, and his master's de­sree the next year. He received his Fh.D. for n-ork done at Frederick and Woodstock College in Maryland and his MJ>. from the TJhlveisity of. Pennsylvania in 1896. He spent the next three years in. Europe, studying first at Salpetriere and 
..~g ET" 

REDUCING AN ALUMNUS 
The news of clnbs and classes is much reduced in this issue. Rea­son: ITniversal Notre Dame Wght. 
The editors had the choice of sending notifications to dub secre­taries and class secretaries, wait­ing for their news and "coming out" just after the Night; or tak­ing the dub and the dass news on hand and going to press so as to be in the mail well before U. 
N. D. Night. For the sake of publidzing, in a critical and significant year, a top­notch TJ.N.D. Night program, the said editors chose the latter course. 
Hochreiter, De Coursey, Doan, Toomey et al—please don't shoot. 
P. S. The next issue of the ALUMNUS will be out after Com­mencement, which is set for May 
10. Club news and dass news will be due here not later than May 15. 

a-
Pasteur Institute in Paris, then in Vienna, and finally at tiie TTniver«ty of Berlin, where he had a place in Virelwrv's laboratory. 
He became an instructor of medicine in 1900 at tlie New York Polyclinic School of Medicine and adjunct professor in 1904. The latter position he resigned to become acting dean and professor of nenrolocy at the Medical. School of Fordham Uni­versity. _ 
Tbe same year he became professor of physio­kgieal psydiology at Catholic College, New York Oty. Dr. Walsh established lectures on the history of medicine and the infioenee of the lund on the body, said to have been the first regnlar course of the kind in this country. For some years he was mafieal editor of "Tlia New York Herald," and he had long been a eonttibotinB editor of Om "Jour­nal of the American Medical Association" and the "New York Medical Journal." 
He aitablislied the Fordham University Press. which published his series on the iiistsry of medi­cine and related subjects. He was author of "The I^ipes and Science" and also wrote a book con-t^aing a biographical symyposium of seven Amer­ican cardinals. 
.He was president of the Catholic Writers' Guild far many years and Cardinal Hayes often praised him publicly as a "true Catfaolie Knight." He was a Grand Commander of tlie KniiAts of St. Greg-OCT. with Cross, and a Knight of MalU. 
Or. WaUi wrote an average of more than a book a year for nearly 40 years on aaadical, sci­antifie, or Catliolie aubjeets. He was a foe of nUgMOs prejudica and a vigorous fiijiter in his wilting and puUie addresses against birth control. 
H M funeral.,hdd fran his home, waa March 4. with Tnlimn Mass ot Beqoiem at Blessed Sacra­ment Onireh, New York City, at wfaUh ArehbUiop ••^lellman presided. Bar. Jamaa H. Young; C.S.C.. of Naw Yoik (Sty, imieseuted Notre Dame at the fonanl. He leavea his wife, Julia H.. a aon, James J., Jr., and a daughter, Moira. 

FaMaa N. Jahastsii, E.E., '12. died recently in Mercy Haq»itaL New Orleans. 
Mr. Johnston was bom in. St. Louis, Dec. 8. I8f I. Fbllowtng his graduation fron Notre Dame, ba waa asaong the engineera who eooplated the work of bnildinc the Keoknk. la., dam. He then hfra»« a sales enginasr for the Dodga Manufac­tnin g Cotporatioa of Mlshawaloi. an adlliation which was maintained until hia death. 
In 1914 Mr. Johnston married Miss Katharine Tong. of IGshawaka, who snirivss, with - their ddUicn: Bev. FUdan N. JohnMon, Jr., a Jesuit sifcnisitir in Shreveport, I^ ; Mra. Harold A. ItriMtte. n. . New Orleans; Sister M. Josephine, a Siitar of IfareT, BsWrnnra; Kolfaar Mary Binor JeluntsB, a BaUtiooa of Uie Sacral Heart, Albany. 
N. Y.: William H. Johnston. U, a studmt at Notia Daaa: George, Genevieve, Joseph, James, and Bizabeth, all attending school in New Orisans. 
Ward of the tragic death ot Koaign Fraacis X. OaikCb B.(Xa. '». reached tha otOee just at press tiaa for flw March "Ahiiaans," so tlie Alumnus carried tiie sad news in a box on page four of the Mardi issue. 
' After 'a wedc's illnsss, Bemaid F. NswicU, cxr 'M. diad Mardi t. in St. Joaaph'a Hospital, South 
The Notre Dame Alumnus. 
Bend, at the age of 26 years. Bemie was em­ployed as an interviewer in the Indiana State Un­employment Gompensatian Burean, Sooth Bend. Survivine are his parents, three brothers and four sisters. 
Tlie "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to RcT. Salratar P. Fanelli, C.S.C.. '14, upon the death of his brother; Henry L. Mereney. '21. and Lyie, E. Maieney, '27, upon the death of thdr mother; Bex O'Mallcy, '26, upon the death of his father: Miduid Tcdeis, '31, and Bokert Tedcrs. ex. '34, upon the death of their mother; jMeph DKkcndarS, '33, upon the death of his mother: and AI Sniadowdd. '38, upon the death of his father. • ­
Personals 
 J. A. HacNaMars. "97,1890-99 BcT. 
S^Bt JmttV* IDMIII Bath^ Meant Chim, Hldk 

9' •••iiiiiniiiiiiMitiiMiiiiiiiiitiiMMiKiMMimiiftnnttnii 
•••a 

I SO-YEAR REUNION 
I Clus of 1892 I 
I May 9, 1942 | 
I For details, see story elsewhere in | I this issue and letter to each mem-1 i ber of rennion classes. 1 
iiiiitiiniuniiiiiiiiitiiiiiii IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIMI & 
|«Mk f A n Bar. Thamaa E. Buke, CS.C I TvDm r 't7. Notra DaM. Ind. ArliiBr S. Fank was in March named chairman of the LaCrosse County, Wis., rationing board. 
1911 
Fic< Btwra. ICCf Hrst Natianal Bank BUS., CUeac*. lU. 
Bish<^ O'Hara, former president of the Uni­versity, has been appointed to the national board of the directors of United China Belief, and will take an active part in the national campaign to raise ST.OOO.OOO for Chinese relief work. 
1916 Grarer BDHar. <I( Wiscnuin Ave, Wis. 
FrMHan Fitzzerald, of Milwaukee, Wis., is as this is written, critically ill and prayers Iiave been requested for his recovery by Father Hagh O'DonneO. 
Father Vincc Hooney, C.S.C.. recently was named Held Consultant with the National' Cath­olic Conmunlty Service. He had hean director of the Youth D^artment of the National Catholic Welfare Conference. 
i. Tan. MC E. 'Ritt St . S«rtk 
B« A lad. 

1917 K. 
Q l IllllltUlllinilltlllllim IttMII MIIIH IIIIIIIMMHMtWIIHMIItl 11II t »Q 
25-YEAR REUNION Class of 1917 i 

I For details, see stoiy elsewhere in | I this issue and letter to each mem-| -1 ber of reunion classes. | 
9limlUUIUUimUMIUUMMMHUItMMtllttUllllMllllMlll(lltlMIU,Q 
TO THE MEN OF SEVENTEEN 

Coma out ye Men of Seventeen Who footht the Germans and the th; Come oat upon the campus green . -:•. '•-­And dww the school what's left of you 
Come out ye men who used to be Seias87 and lank and sallow-faced ' And let your old professors see ' Ihe suivlns that has cone to waTst 
Once you were agile, light and gay' Before you understood life's.woes. But now a load or two of hay Would scarcely fill your ample clothaa • 
If married men ye chance to be ' Don't hesitate to leave your spouse. It's time to let the lady see That you're a man and not a mouse 
Come out and spend a happy day And warble the old melodies. The while you drive life's care away . And fill your soul with memories 
You'll hear again of Jack and Bill Who sleep somewhere in Franee tonight. Out there upon a lonely hill Beneath the pale moon's golden light 
You'll talk of Ftefs who naad to daal In matters that were largely bunk. Who gave yon for a mental meal Boloney in a massive hunk 
Perhaps you'll pleasantly recall The prefect that yon knew of yore Who nailed the windows of the Hall And slept all night beside the door 
You'll meet the room mate who was taH. Whose lodes were plentiful and fair. And you wiU find a biUiaid ball Where once had waved his bushy hair 
Come live the old days, one by one. With the best fnends yon ever knew. And thoroughly enioy tha ttat The while yoo have a drink er two 
Come out today and celebrate Your silver anniversary. Tomorrow, it will be too late 
When you are just a memory. —T. E. B. 

I M I A Clarene* Bader. H I PisKe St . Qnr, 
Patrick Hurray, of Buffalo. N. Y., reeeivad hia mast^'s degree in education from the Univeni^ of Buffalo in February. He is assistant principal of Williamiville ffigh adiool at YnUiaanilkh N.T. 
Chide Bader, of Gary. Ind.. was, at a Manh meeting of stockholders, named a director of tiia Northern Indiana Public Service Company, with general offices in Hammond. Ind. 
1921 Daa W. Daay. IMf Tnariaal Vawar. CfavsIsM O. 
Vine Sweeney is still in Pittsburgh aa director of publidty for the Steel Workers Organising Committee. 
1922 
|B|iiniiiiMimii 
I 20-YEAR REUNION | Class of 1922 | May 9. 1942 | 
I For details, see story elsewhere in | I this issue and letter to each mem-| I ber of reunion classes. 1 
From G. Kid Asbe: Men of 19221 This year we celebrate tbe 20th anniversary of cmr graduation. Please fha eanfU attention to this notiea, heeauaa this is'tba aatr announcement whidi time -will peiadt ttnash the medium of tbe "Alnnnns" befoca A s OoM­
nt caifuaiM take alaes and Sindar. H ^ • aad U. AU Of date tat 
Do* to dw aniral of 1,«M aafal iialaw •• the caiapB* SOMUIM ia April, raoai aeeasMsda­tioDS for latBTBins ahmni win aot ha siiiliMs .on the < 
Yet. despUa all of the BaeertaiatT «C tfciac^ tliere is no good taaaoa whr tka ebas at Ut l shoald not BaAnl its haaaan aa tee* far aar annhnraaiy aasUax tUa unsiln Hay. Va aailr can accept witik aood siaea aaytUas ttat. is lack­ing ia tta war of aecaamodatkaa. irtieh aast he expaeted in flw MSiwu ot prsridtac flnt fiir Unda SaaTs niBtair Aarsei^ Taar mtMtmr wishes to sngnst Ost all rsadHalw far tUm year's aaaisarsair esUbratka hciac aka s safll. dent rest to tide Oaa over jaat ia case ft is hard to find a plaee to ahep. Bnetoton, sleeping accoamodatiGas have always beea vided, but no one inMsil to find thae for ) 
We resnt tbat tine will sot pendt aa to < tact oar ace pabUe nistiaas saaa; '. who eoald do a aMstarfal job in soimdhig the eaB for tbe 20th annlvetasry condave. 
Let US disaipete some of tbe idle mmors Oat a n ia dtculatiaa. It is denied tbst pap teats «!•. . be. set up on tbe Bancbo Pat IbaiMi tae.Om returning dslfgatea. Abo. there is Bttla traft ia the reports that Bay Kcatas wiU'eade tbe BMC to anyone, or tbat'Chack llli^lilil is briaaiai ' along a carload of CohnaUa river sabaaa fraaa his nsitive I^lttIa]>d for a vant fish fry oa Uie shores of St. Marr's Lake. 
On the other hand, you can bet your last] 
that tbe abir wU not be a "flov." Aba^br. 
AI Sestt. of Los ABSHSS. ieny aBiieHw of < .and FMhsr Cssess liidttr, of the Bsfer Gkaas 
Mitiiim BKB4 have prnMiwd to sttaadj aalna 
iir*T!hiny aaforsssa uucuis to foiaa a 4aapa ia . 
pUns. We hope to sse Jm sad AMa Bhsailaii; 
Dr. Ttaa Kacfi^ Ifcrtsa Shssdr. Jade Wmtlmg. 
tiagkiy Halt, the Bilikal^ Mfle CilHy. Oat 
Wyaas, Bakh Oasya. Gaaa Ksaaa 
Haak Aadtnsa, OJay laiisa. Dr. 
tbe entire Sattk En d lislmstlna. Jaak ; 
Dr. Daa Ssstsi 
\jMr auUk. Pele 
CsHiBlal. Daa TaaM^ Bacli Shaw. Bn l Waftfc 
Bca aasea. Stcsa Csfsdi. Ait sad M 9hiB. 
Hsreid McKee, and every 'oOer mtmlwr of flie 
dass. 
Tbe Chicago ilslsgitinn. in adfitioa te. ssna already mentinaed will indnde: JadP* Isii e KOey. Jcny Disea. Paal PfAI. and lea Ksilir. These delegates win be down at Notre Dsssa a«aa if they have to eaassMadeer aa iee waaoa to stait tbeas on their meny way (spolosiaa te Jaias KDv). Other men who are good pieapaeU iadala. Cesigi Kerrcr. of Ctcrdsad. Ihnia Enaaa^ ef-Boffsk). Dr. Jsba Kdtar. «f Utica. Ja « miliifc of New Torfc. FMhsr Bik riBl«il>. of Tea Wert. OUe, Jim Jaaw and Oa t VUtM. of Biikiif. 
Men at Itttt Oaae this yaer oa yoar. Mtb anniversary. Tea .will not ragvst it. 
Bad Wabdi has ban aaaad aetiag aoaah. at-IVmliaBB Unheraitr to wplsea Urn Cmtf. tk . wim waa graatad a Isavo ot abaaaee to ealat so . a pbysieal iaatraetar ia the Naial Air Oaqpa.. bri has beta-ddef seoet aad buMili eaaeh at; Fordham for tbe past niae years. 
am listed at Sooth Bead. U hied I eat of the Westeia * Ssatbsm Ut e Ooa^aar. Aa iatsrriew witii hiai. mimtt wMk a hsiidai i pietaieb appsaisd ia flw 
•Tribaae'* whaa tha M4t fsoihall | Lakes wss saanaaesd. BOl was flw Notoa J quartaiback bi tbe lOIS Great Lakes 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
scored the Notre Dame touchdown. Final score. 
1926 
 Bcman, 127 N. Demrborn St.. Jamm A. m. 
GUcavo, 
Besults of a recent survey taken among draft-able Notre Z>«me students fay Norbert Engt^, pro­fessor of Enciish in the University, appeared in the February issue of "Columbia," Enig^ts of Colomfans magazine. Norb has done much other writins for '"Columbia" and appears frequently in "America" and other publications. 
1927 
Jaaepk M. Boland, SUtion WSBT, Soalh Bend, Ind. 

H-"-"-'  • ••••  •  '  "••  •••."•"•• a  
I  IS-YEAR  REUNION  |  
I  Class of  1927  I  
I  May 9, 1942  |  

I For details, see storj' elsewhere in | i this issue and letter to each mem-| i ber of reunion dasses. I 
..Q 
Joe Boland, -who has assumed his new duties as ^Kirts and special events announcer for WSBT, the South Bend "Tribune" station, began in March his new series of sports program heard at 6:45 each Monday, I\iesday, Wednesday, and Friday 
evenins:. 
1928 
Laws F. Boddey, 4481 HacArthnr Blvd., WasUncton. D. C 
From L M Baddey: 

Due to an error in address which we can't blame on Bill Cranin's postoffice department. Bill K—p*s notes did not arrive in time to meet the deadline for the last issue. Bill is tax attorney for the Indiana Bell Telephone Go. in Indianapolis. He is manied and has three children. He reports as follows on the Indianapolis *2S men. 
"Jahn daaka has been disabled for the last few yein and is not worldng. He lives at home and is sin^e. Fnd Pfartncr is with the Indianapolis Foncr * Utjiit Co. Charier Bikjr is married, and works in the Indiana Employment Security Di­vision irith "Jia Bachninc. Tom Backelshans is one of the ownen of the Bed Cab Company. He is marned and a polo player in his spare time Bcnie LadDer of West Virsinia is here at the Tdq^one Coinpany. He is married and has a 
dani^tcr," 
At Bill's snsgcstimi. our old cheer leader. Bob ~ IBi^> came throogii with the following in the usual Kifby a^le: 
"Several jcars aso. Dr. Frank Hecarty was dsaitintad as die 'eolamnist' for the class of '28, so I took it upon mjself to write him an alleged latter,-hnping tliat l would break into print be­fore the time that I reach that page in the 
•jUaanns'
 iriiidi lists those sons of N. D. that have stepped to the sieat beyond. The Doctor was 

•videntlr
 loadsd wiQi material, becaoie I scanned the '28 news for mntiths thereafter to no avaiL Tlie only nason that 1 mention this is to advise yea that I haven't done m darned thing nnce then tliat is worth writing about. I had five kids then. and I still had five when I counted them at 7:30 tUa Bomine. St. Mary's 4—Notre Dame 1. 


"As tile yeaxs roll by. it seems that I have less and leas itmiirm to bear from, or know about, any of A e T28 sang; ISiis is probably due to the fast tliat I have become holed in this Boosier SMlKiiiiilli in the capadtr oi one of the saddest iimelisaifn in the diocese. Vinee Oaeey is about the only nvolar that I've maintained contact with, and 1 haven't heard from him since last summer. 
"Give my regards to Lea BacUcy, and if he can <^wMf«V a contact for me with any of the old bunch, I'd appreciate it more than I could say." 
Jim Boehning. who heads the Interstate De­partment of the Indiana Employment Security Division, took time out from paying unemployBMnt compensation benefits to send Bill the foUowing: 
"Saw Tom Hart at the Notre Dame Christmas dance. He is living in Oklahoma City and seems to have all of the insurance business in the state of Oklahoma. Still the gay and datin g badielw'. (No, no! See 'Marriages,' March issue—^Eds.) 
"Frank McCarthy is living in Fort Wayne and connected with the Van Gamp Condensed Milk Company. He has a new arrival bom during the early part of December, named Sara Jo." ­
Bill mentioned that Bidiat X. Greaaillian. form­erly of Louisiana, is now with the telephone com­pany in Indianajjolis. Bichat is married and has two children. 
I am glad to give you some news from the Southwest this month via Christie Flanacan from Fort Arthur, Tex. Christie wrote to a number of fellows for news. I hope those who failed to reply will do so at once so we can include their eoo­tribntlons in the next issue. Christie has two sirls and two boys. He didn't mention what he was doing but his letter-head was as follows: Christie ^. Flanagan t Co., Ship and Forwar^ng Asents. Customs House Brokers and Stevedores. Christie gives us the following dope on three fellowa whom we have not had a report on for some time: 
"In this locality I see ChanMe Harria who lives in Houston, and by the way Is with a new law firm. He is a married man with a fanuly and a prosperous future. Herb Sdialtz Is still in Port Arthur in the paint and paper business and widics to be remembered to all his friends; he is stffi single and about to get married to Unde Sam. Bari Boyldn is In Beaumont and in tlw brass fittings business and, bendes elipplns enqpons and staying in good mtfa the refineries, he finds time for his golf; he is married happily with a fmily." 

Fred Baiz wrote Christie from S08-l(t]i Ave.' So., Nampa, Ida., where he is teadiins in the local senior hitji school. Re d has five children. He mentioned that he sees Tem Janes in Bmse once in a blue moon. 
Art Canty came through with the foUowins in reply to Christie's request: 
"Tour- letter brought pleasant reooUections of Joe Bcberfs room across the ball from Bune in Scvhomore Hall and the Texma contingenf gath­ered dirilly. 
"I have never vrritten a Iceeinng posted,' but here goes. After~I1eft N. D. I went abnost dnaetly to New York and vent several wedn wacUns for IW k * Wagnalls on Oae Smith-Hbova "Uleraiy Kgesf FoU; then to the New York Central S^l­road General Office in New York for fbur years. At the end of that time, seeinc that I was sittiac nowiiere with the railroad, and who was la fihoae days. I decided to continue law sdiool and went one year to Fordiiam. nights, and flien got a job wifii The Prudential Insurance Oonpany of ftawr lea in tiewaric, N. J. I flnidied wj law in Mew Jersey Law Sdxxil. bong admitted to the bar in New Jersey in 1933. After four years in flie hone office as attorney for a year and a lialt and thai out here to Los Angeles vriiere I have vol t S«e years in the same eapadty. On the war. andaot inddoitally, 1 aeqiuTed a wife and J.-t**— in New Taric and son in las t Orange, now over '21' and 'ir and 'C respectively. Tboae are the Ugh-lights at tat as I am eooceraed. 
"My cousin, Tem Canty* who roomed with me in Sophomore and is really a '28ar though be en­tered in January and graduated in January '29, ven t several years in New York City in the in­surance business and then returned to our home town. Batavia. N. T., where he married his diild­hood sweetheart. Tbey have a dau^ter and 1 understand tiiat he Is still in the insurance busi­ness, althou^ if It were not for otiier and better eorrevondents I -would not know even that little about him. 
"I have heard little or nothing In the last five years fmm the other roommate of mine, Jim Ceaaer, of Elwood, Ind., but he has undoubtedly r^ircd and is growing fat from the proceeds of ice sold to chill the beer that was dnmk at the Wiinde homecoming cdebration, of more or less recent note. 
"This is about the best I can do for the col­umn as I do not seem to run Into many fellows from our class out here although I have seen a few and have mentioned them in notes to various guest eolumnists who have written me during the past year." 
Ihanks BUI Konop and Christie Flanagan for the fine job. Hils goes also for those who co­opCTated with them wfaidi made It possible to m^oitain our standard again this month. 
Next month we will bear from Dicfc Wcppner and Dr. Bemie Giairiey; Tliis Ohio-Missouri com­bination should be a fine one If you give them your help. 
1930 
Bichaid L. Daaachae, 372* Beserreir Bead, N. W.. WasUngtan. D. C 
FVom Dick Dono^ac: 
My brother Bemle. ex. '32, and I are living in WasUagton, D. C , together. I iun in the Iron and Steel Seetion of the Office of Bnergency Jbnage­nent. Office of Price Administration. Bemie Is woridng at the Bureau of Aeronantiea on a loan basis fran 'S.'UUB. Things are going swell. 
. of ChieagOb secretary of the Illinois BoodnK Commisrion, acted aa honorary referee for the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts, held March 21. 

•a y Tsttea, of Pittaburgh, received the reli^ous hahit o< the Congregation of Holy Ones at St. Joaeph's Novitiate, on Feb. 1, when he began his year's novitiate aa a seminarian. 
•stgaa. <U E. CaVax Ave.. 
\^M^1S, 

Ned Gits wrota from 4715 Beach Dr., Seattle. Wadi.: T m ant here as a defense wt^cer drang iwwsftiim work for Bodng Aircraft, makers of those Umoaa "flying foctraases' which CoUn P. Xdly flew to fame. It is'quite a proUem finding a home here for wife; daughter, and son. 
"AI Ttahy, now living in Bntte, Mont., snd I wars pIsnninK msar 'get-togethersT wliea he came to Bstte wifli the KB.L, but I had to leave there before he aiilved. 
"Hare ahran had regular letters from Ed HfaB aatil thsss psat few monOis. He was up in Chnsnek, N. T. with Canada Dir Ginger Ale. hnildfaig new bottUng works for them or some 
Jsaiy CMUgaa is a hasting and Jlluminating laglawi with the lowa-IDinob Gas aaad Eketric CoiBvany in Fort Dodge, U . He is'seeretary­tisswiui of Oe Natndn-Iowa chapter of the nisMliisltin Sigineeiiag Sodetr. 
FMher Esaifa. lhtsstl..hss left Kewanee. IIL, to hseoaw adarinjstratsc of Oar Lady of Loordes Cbardi. CShmm CUy. ill. 
The Notre Da me Alumnus 21 
Fied Beiauui was recently elected president of the I«Cra«ae County unit of the Wisconsin Asso­ciation for the Disabled. 
Lartr Mdlins, for the last year backfield coach at the University of Florida, left for Annapolis in March to begin a month's trainins before soing on dnty In the Navy's physical training program. He has the commission of lieutenant. 
From Jehn Bervan: 

Ibe boys of the class still continue to be drafted into Uncle Sam's forces and soon few '31 bachdors will be minus some sort of service uniform. Ef­forts are being made to have a complete list of draftees listed next issue. Corp. Jerry. Bnstin has 
' left Camp Meade, Maryland, and may soon be heard from across the seas. It is now Lieat. Larry MmDinM, U.S.N., as Larry joined the physical fit­ness program of the Navy Aviation department in March. He will be assigned to one of the schools where naval aviators are being trained. Tom GoMen is a member of the Nai-y and is located on the U. S. S. Phoenix. Ellis Bloomstrom is also a Navy ensign and is located at P^iget Sound. Washington, Jack Laux will soon be awarded ht3 wings at Kelly Field. San Antonio. 
Sympathy of the class is extended to Vince Tiirley on the death of his wife last month in Hartford. Harry Dergan is holding down an im­portant position with the National Bank of Hart­ford. Andy Kata, expecting an early call from the draft board, is one of New Britain. Conn., prominent lawyers. Congratulations to Dr. Larry Zen who was recently married and is living in Jacksonville. Fla., where he is a member of the United States Department of Health. 
Reports from our Rutland, Vt., chapter disclose that two members of the class of 1960 were bom ten days apart. They are, Louis W. Esposito, Jr.. and Edward G. McClallen, HI. The former is the son of Dr. Loa Esposito, one of the up and coming' medical specialists of the state of Ver­mont, and marks the second child in the family. The latter is the third member of the McClallen clan to bear the name of Edward and is the son of Alderman Ed McClallen, who has been prom­inent in the city affairs of Rutland. Ed in addi­tion to his thriving law practice has found time to teach his daughter, Nancy, age 4, the rudi­ments of ice skating and has done a pretty good job of skiing on Picos Peak this spring himself. 
Joe WUk, the Adams, Mass., schoolmaster, has applied for a commission in the Navy and in the meantime has been widely identified as North­western Massachusetts Red Cross director and fir tree fancier. Joe has been married six years and is planning an early trip back to the campus if his proposed naval duties permit. 
Rounding out his sixth year as a member of the faculty of Bowdoin College, Brunswick. Maine, is Denny "Shay, a fellow in our books that has not changed a bit since campus days. Denny is a mem­ber of the physical education department of the college under Adam Walsh, '25. and is assistant football coach, head basketball coach and mentor of the college's tennis team. Denny is single and is ready to answer his call to army duties but in the meantime has enjoyed the respect of a fine student body at one of the East's leading uni­versities. 
Charlie Wittman. Erie, Pa., is the father of two sons and is prominently identified with the Witt-man-Pfeffer Coal Company of Eric. Dick Walsh and family have recently moved to Detroit where he Is ^vith the General Electric Company. Matt Gurisan "'U soon be deserting his Detroit in­surance business for a trip on one of Uncle Sam's cruisers as Matt is awaiting an assignment in the Naval Reserve. Jim Me<l«mld is recovering from a very serious illness and would appreciate a note from any of his old buddies and may be reached at his old home in Indianapolis. Fcaak BafiaaU. South Bend barrister, has filed for a reelection as Justice of the Peace, of St. Joseph County. 
Adam Walsh. '25, in addition to his duties as head coach of football at Bowdoin College has been named air warden of the city of Brunswick. Maine, a very strategic coast town between the shipyards nt Bath and the Portland port. 
Gerald "Kid" Ashe, '22, has been boar these past few months in Montreal, Canada, where his railroad duties have taken him. He may be readied at the Queens Hotel there. 
Charlie Collon, '29, is assistant manager of the University club in Boston.' 
Hnch Devore, '33, is now a member of the football coaching staff of Holy Cross College, Worcester, Mass. 
 Hyran E. Ciawfarl, (TtS Fiaak­1932 Dr. 
lin Ave.. CfeTcland. O. 

0-""-"" »^ 
10-YEAR REUNION | f Claas of 1932 | I May 9, 1942 | I For details, see story elsewhere in = 
I this issue and letter to each mem-| I ber of reunion classes. | 
Q .•il....)l...l.lll..t.*K.....(.l.*.tt...HH*tHM*tn*..*...N*..HlQ 
Dan Pflanm, Ph.D.. '34, has been promoted to captain in the Chemical Warfare Service and transferred to the Niagara Falls Plant of the service. His address is 715 Walnut Ave., Niagara 
•Falls, N. Y. 
Dick Holf, ex. '32, from Iowa, was caught in the draft, according to Robert Siegfried, and is now somewhere with Uncle Sam. 
1933 TIche Woods, 7M4 BIHa Ave.. CUtafk m. 
Nordy Hoffman is doing a fine job with the Steel Workers Organizing Committee in Pitts­burgh, according to a reliable scout. 
1934 Bekert M. CaUn. Addttie AaMlatiMi, Natie Dame. Ind. 
From his brother comes word that Neck Blix­crsld has recently gone to Pittsburgh to work as electrical engineer" for a synthetic rubber corpor­ation. He was formerly a junior engineer for the Chicago subway. Norb has three young sons. 
John HcLaugUin. of Cumberland Hill. R. L. recently registered in the University, his one year old son. John Clement, whose birthday was March 11. 
1935 Franklyn C. Hoekrcitcr. U» Ave, St. Loaia. Me. 
A letter from Jim Bordcaax. of Grosse Pointc. Mich., reveals that he has been an aeeotmtant at Briggs Manufacturing Company for the past seven years, and is now an auditor for the company. Jim was married in June, 1940. to Miss Helen Voorhees, of Muskegon. He adds that his brother Jerome Bordeaox. '40, is in the Army Air Corps and at present is located at Gunter Field, Mont­gomery, Ala. 
Elmer Baraham has been named head football coach at Purdue University, succeeding Mai BW ward, who resigned recently to enter "the Navy. 
Dr. Frank Schlnter has been sworn into the naval reserv'c as a commissioned medical officer with the rank of lieutenant, junior grade. Before joining fba Navy he was witt th* Lahey CBaie^ 
MUwaakae. 
Aai Caavkd has taken a podtka as aeeooit­ant with the Detroit Ordnaaea Dblriet of th* War Department* with hcadiiuarten ia Detroit. 
Dr. Say Schah, now ctmaaetad with tta Johaa Hivkins Hoqiital, Battiaaore, has raeently pab­liabed a researdi article.-"ABKiaid Stnaku ia tha Archives of Ophtlialinology.'* 
tl B. NOi St.. Apt. l; 

1936 Hair TaA Gtty. 
A letter froiB his mother biinci word tkat M Daaa gave up a fine Grand Bapids iob to tater the Navy. He reedved his uaiiniliilnii as eaidgn in January and ia. at present, at Great Isdtes. 
Tma a letter from his father, we learned that Veraea TetiaaU has, since last November, been in TUnidad for the government. He likes his work in the naval division and is booked for two years there. In December he ran into. Bi l flfcakiipsari. who was leaving THnidad for the U. S. A. 
Daa Blaer. Fraak Gaal and Vm BnoMw '37. have recently gooa to the V. S. Naval Tkaiaing Statioa. Norfolk. Va., as phydcal cdneatioB in­stroetors. 
 Bahy. >U Haalksiai 1937 rad 
?
5-YEAR REUNION 

I Clauof 1937 | 
May 9. 1942 

I For details, see story elsewheie in | = this issue and letter to each mem-| I ber of reanion classes. 1 
From Paal Faiey: 

For the first time since we inherited this chore we are able to approach it with something like a blithe spirit—simply £pping down into the lower drawer for that pack of letters we salted away after the last screed. 
Incidentally, we're doing this stint on St. Pat­rick's day—a fitting and pn^er time to dip into a long letter from Vlace Ibrpiv. now established in Evanston. HL Slays Viaee (not too belDgereat­ly): 
"Tm still a liberal—you can get soBie idea b^ remeaihf ring that BUI HcNaly used to call lie 'Bomb Thrower' Murphy." Knowing the HcNd y tiike. we diseoont the whole idea. 
Muiphy is now an interviewer with the United ' States Employment Service. By way of his own empkqment Vince is able to torn in an admirable report: He was married Nor. IT. 1937. now has two sons Tlxnaas Brian, three years old. TBCttce I ^ and when he wrote (Jan. 7) was expeetfag a third hdr. 
Vinee says he is active in the saiae K. ol C cooadl \riiidi daims Al Siaitk but the lattcr'is most inaietiTe. MnriA reports hearing oeeadonally from Paal Blagari and Jiia OUanMB. WeTve re­ported CO Pan] froas time to time and can now repMt that Jim. after a soceessfnl trip amoad. the coarse at Harvard, is itiot wdL 
jU Hater in January reported himwlf dafcnad froas atand activity and going great gnaa wMi a coal ODtfit in Chicago. Beiaaid Marty is. or ' was. still unmarried and travelBng a beat sdBag hospital supplies. 
ReportinGT on a trip to Springfield, III., Murphj­says: "While walkinjr through the local Cathedral I was tapped on the shoulder by Floyd Miller, who has the books of the AlHs-Chalraers Corp. thor­oughly balled up and has been doing same since graduation." 
John Blondctoh, who started his Bend career vnih the '37 cr«© but dropped out of school a year, is now situated in Decatur, III. 
Redmond Davgan is scurrying about a huge Social Security district near Alamosa, Colo., and when last reported was heading for New Orleans on a vacation^wonder if he ran into Joe Drolla? 
We are happy to report, through our Evanston bureau, Harpby. that Frank Foley is successfully married and was last heard from in South Bend where he and Mrs. rode herd on Frank, Jr.. a tow-head. 
Johnny Hart is also married and has been seen wheeling his baby daughter Maty Kathryn round the block. 
Ihe Marphy letter winds up with a couple of snapshots of the family—excellent pictures and family too, we might add. One of the shots was made on the steps of the $80,000 J. F. Cuneo mausoleum in Calvary Cemetery—^but the sun was shining and all seemed well with clan Murphy. 
From information taken straight from a'neat engraved announcement we are able to report the wedding of John Midiael Powers, Jr. to Miss inidred Hetz on Jan. 3 in Houston. Tex. 
Jim Downey, M.D., reports from City Hospital in St. Louis, Mo., where he is interning. He was able to report on his first son, bom Nov. 24. Jim . Sfud the Army had one eye on him as far back as JanuaTT. so by now he may be under even closer scrutiny. 
Agmn we get red-hot news from Decatur, Ala. from Bob Gro^an, a flying cadet in Squadron 2, Air Corps Training Detachment. Since the last ^vord came through early in January he may be many rods from Decatur by now. But Ruby Rob­ert sounded in .excellent spirits and reported an Army technique of discipline worthy of a men's college we know: It seems the Army will not allow its flying cadets to drink 24 hours 1>cfore flying: but they fly every day-
Since his name is Grogan, however, and since we know his family are right nice people, we will as soon as this screed is tapped out, think of him for the duration of a green beer in Tom Ixjng's hacienda this St. Patrick's day. 
We can report personally on the good work bdng accomplished in the Holland, Mich, sector by Bernard Dminelly who is at present travelling for Donnelly- Kelley Glass Company and hits De­troit occasionally. The Donnelly's possess a new daughter-T-or did we tell you before ? 
Much of the information emanating from the "Terror of the '40's," Mr. Leon Henderson of OFA, comes straight from Joe Ixiftns who is assifirned to that bureau as an assistant economist in charge of research statistics—the'boys who will soon rule the world. Joe, not content with a spot in the greatest .Democratic administration since Wilson, is also pursuing a PhJ). in Sconoroics, and expects it from Johns Hopkins shortly. 
But perhaps by now Joe has exdianged all that for a private's countrj* khaki ensemble. 
Pete Johncn, impressario of the piano and other similar nt^se-makers, reports from Chicago where he is a book-keeper and estimator for a plastering oonoem. (No cracks) Acouiring a taste for the plasterincr trade. Fete also owns a tavern on the south side of Chicago (3149 W. 59th St. for you tmvelen). 
Pete has not deserted the song-writins frfttcrnity and has a new number called "I ICss Ton Kore Each Day"—he thinks it might go places and Jus cooked up some air-time for it. Listen and request —give a local boy a plug. 
From Cleveland,'where he is coaching football and basketball at S t Ignatius Hi ^ school, comes word from John Levidd. The Levidds are PTGA>­ably the proud parents of two children now—the second was expected sometime in Febniary; the first boy is just past two years old. While John himself makes no comment, we understand his coaching job has been iirst^rate in every respect. 
On crisp 25 per cent rag content piu»er, the kind affected by insurance salesmen, we hear from Mark Lonerran who reveals that in Oct(A>er 1940, he ^vas married to Miss Mary T. McCarthy "a violent Irish-Catholic" The quotes belong to Lonergan, thank God. The Ix>nergan8 are llvincp in Montclair, N. J., the following paragraph will give you a rough idea of what goes on over in Mont­clair: 
"For the past three years I have had a partic­ularly exhilarating experience with a group here in the city working with the Russian Uniate Catholics. Most of the work consisted in learning Russian and dnging Mass in the Byzantine Rite. However, on Aug. 8, my wife presented me with a 6% pound son and I have found it necessary to . return to the Latin rite and sing lullabies in good old Anplo-Saxon. My plans—to rear a futtirc Dominican!" 
We are happy to report a long and interesting letter from. John Lantar down in Monndsville. 
W. Va., with the Fostoria Glass Company. John is happily married and the father of two girls. Joanne and Tom Marie. 
John is also grand knight of Father Flanagan Council 1907 of the K. of C. and is, OT was, battling with the idea of a new clubhouse for the Knights of Moundsville. For a short time John taught emperical design and mechanical drawing at West Virginia University but work forced him to give up the extra routine. 
According to Lautar he has run into a good many of his ex-team-mates at various of the ball games. He reports seeing Vic Wojdhovski and his ri^t-hand man, Walt Scfarader,- and such stal­warts as Art Cronin, Blatt Themes. WaDy Fmn­hart and Larry Danbom—on many of whom we have reported at greater length. 
Frank Ganl, we understand, is still assistinc Tom Conley at John Carroll. 
Up to his ears in the job of building ships for our seven ocean navy is Joe HanfellL Joe tells ft tj-pical New Jersey story of being unable to set a teaching appointment because the wronsr poli­tical party w*as in the saddle. So he turned to industry and is now a full fledged wdder ftt Federal Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company, Kearney. N. J. 
Jack Hurley wings in a note from Rodiester. 
N. Y., where he is still covering all the riaks he can uncover for John Hancock Life Insonnce (^mpany. Jack says he has visited the campus frequently but is able to report seeing only one of the '37 variety—Ned Joyce who still holds fpr^ in Carolina. 
Jack brings word of Bob Weaver who is re­ported practicing law in Coshocton. C . (says Hurley). 
Zeke CftcUey is in on a new racket-'or at least he was—^that of driving 600 nilea ft day for GMAC to catch up with the boys who couldn't catch np ^t h their payments. We find this a n d commentaiT on the N.D. Journalism Departmeiit. 
Jee Wdck* says Hnrley, was on the campus last spring, sporting a new car and saying nice things aboot. the status quo in Weedsport. N. T. Joe is married and has one child. 
From Louisville, deep in the julep belt we hear fnnn XWrnns H. Ln^ey, Jr., and in a nnmd­abont way of Thomas H. Lackey. III.—a very lacks gay. Thomas (Jr) is working for Jones Dabney Paint (Company, married a South Bend girt and is a faithful attendant at N.D. meetings in the Great Louisville front. 
Lmis HiAenhacfc is now treasurer of Gtencoe distilleries and the father of two children. 
So we saw off for another issue—keeping a neat reserve of half a dozen later letters, stacked like sandbags against the assault of another deadline. 
Before you see this print, or shortly thereafter, yon will receive a letter from the FUey lad giving in some detail the plans for the fifth reunion of the class on May 9. And there will donbtless be a general reunion story elsewhere in the April issue. 
No one is sorrier than I am that our plans for the five-year reunion have to be so shalren apart by the military necessities on the campos. But, even with a one-day program, let's get back there to see each other. A '37 session will provide a tonic all around. 
At solemn services in St. Joseph's Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Ind., Basil Gillespie, C.S.C.. hav­ing completed a year's novitiate training, took t^nporary vows of poverty, chastity, and obedi­ence, in early February. 
J«e McNftlty is now a lieutenant, senior grade, in the U. S. Navy, and is stationed in the vicinity of Washington, where he is a torpedo inspector. 
A . WilUuB., 3(8 Bu t Lake 
1938 BBRU 
An., Baltiaorc, Md. 
John BericUiiffk having successfully completed eigfat months of advanced flight training, was recently awarded his "wings" at the Marine Air Station, Miami, Fla., and commissioned a second lieutenant in the U. S. Marine Corps Reserve. 
llie following is a letter from Ned Hahwick. ex. '38, in part: "I'm still here in St. Augustine. Fla., working for the Florida East Coast Hotel Company, but it looks like the Army is going to call me about the end of Hardi.... Passed my preUminary medical exam last week. I tried to enlist in the Naval Reserve as a yeoman, but they turned me down on my eyes. But with the new Army standard for eyes, I guess they'll be O.K. rm raady to go and glad to get a chance to do ray part." 
"Second lieut. David Bilger, of St. Augustine, was transferred, Feb. 2, to the Finance Office, Camp Croft, S. C, where he is assistant finance officer. 
*%harl« Bennett, '39, is in his last semester of law at the University of Florida, and L. J. Beilly, '40, is still here in St. Augustine and working for Marine Studios and not in the Air Corps as was erroneously reported to the 'Alumnus'." 
David O'Cmnor has been in the Army since Oct. 
1. 1941. He had his bade training at Fort Warren, Cheyenne, Wyo. At present he is stationed at Fort McDowell, Calif., where he is company supply derk for the First Company Quartermaster Corp. 
Oudie Dake has a dvi! service job, beinx a dvil aeronanties controller, at the municipal air^ port In diicago. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
From Hml WillUiu: 
Hie correspondence and news for this month is very scanty, but I'll eive yon what I have and then pot in a plug for more letters. 
More than a month ago 1 received this wedding announcement, "Mr. and Hra. Fisher Jones Beas­ley announce the marriage of their daughter Uary Fuller and Hr. Bernard Francis Peteraon on Sat­urday, the foorteenth of February, 1942, at Balt!-' mora.*' No address on the newly married couple, but I understand that they are U\ing in Baltimore. 
niia from Frank Larwood (725 D Street, Spring­
iield, Oregon); "Having just read the February 
'Alumnus' and having just accumulated some 
news, thought it time for you to hear again from 
the Oregon country. Miss Evelyn L. Wright and 
I were married Feb. 14 at her home in Portland, 
Ore, We are having to be a week-*nd couple for 
.the present, however, since she is keeping her job 
in Portland in anticipation of my being called 
into the army. I am another of Dr. Cooney's boys 
who has left the joamaUsm field, and I have been 
working for the Southern Pacific Railroad since 
last August. My main job is the routing and bill­
ing of car loads of lumber and plywood. As X 
work nights 1 am taking a shorthand course at a 
business college in Eugene, which is four miles 
wbst of Springfield. 
"Sorry I haven't much news about other N, D. boys, but 1 am rather isolated from Notre Dame events here and have to depend on the 'Alumnus' for my news. I did have a letter from my old roommate Redman Duggan, who is still with the Social Security Board at Alamosa, Col. He has recently had his territory enlarged and now has considerable traveling to do. I'll appreciate a let­ter or a personal visit from any of the boys who might get out this way either through Uncle Sam or on their own. They can find me by inquiring at either the Springfield or Eugene depots ot the Southern Pacific" 
. Thanks, Frank, for the fine letter. And congrat­ulations to both of the boys who will have an easy date to remember as their wedding anniversaries— St. Valentine's Day. 
Then there is a letter from Pvt. John Ckary who, when last heard from, was stationed at Fort Andrews, Mass., with the service company of the 104th Infantry. 
I saw Chnck Braeins the other day strolling up a Baltimore street during the lunch hour. He said that he is still with Haskins and Sells and doing quite a bit of traveling these days and just moved into a new house in Stoneleigfa, just outside ot Baltimore. He reports that his young son is growing bigger and better every day. While I was in Frederick, Md., last week I learned that Jack LeMien is now an Ensign in the Navy and ia attending school in Boston. 
As for myself: I was inducted into the army Feb. 6 at Fort George G. Heade, Md., just outside of Baltimore. Three weeks later I was transferred to Fort Eustis, Va., about 70 miles below Mch­mond, and March 25 was transferred to Baltimore with the rank of sergeant to work in the Third Corps Area Headquarters. Not bad. this Army life, when one can live at homel 
That's about all for the time being except that I am issuing an urgent appeal for correspondence. The boys have been slacking up lately. Come on, fellows, drop us a line even if it is only a card. 
1939 Vinecnt OeCeaney. 454* Jaikoe, Kan­aaa atr. Ma-
Having completed a base defense weapons course, Lieut. Jaaeph Stalb. of Augusta, Fla.. was graduated in February &om the U. S. Marine Corps School at Quantico, Va., and has been assigned to duty with a combat unit of the Marine Corps. 
Charles McNamara is now located at Fort Sill. Okla., where be is in the Field ArtiUeiy Attach­ment. 
Boh Kieman, of- Milwaukee, enlisted in March for flight training with the United States Navy Air Force and will report soon for primary flii^t training at the Naval Air Base at Glenview, III: 
1940 
Kakert G. S«ifor^ 3»M, N. IIUTlaad Art*, lOlwmvkce, Wis. 
Lt. John J. Powers, ex. *40, who was srsdnmted recently from the OfTicers* Candidate School in. Belvoir, Va.. has been commissioned in the Army Ensineer Corps. 
Ralph Winsficld has completed his preliminary flight traininsr and is now in New Orlemns for further instruction preparing to become »n en-. sign in the Kaval Reserve or a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps Reserve. ­
Lt. ioe Weidner, ex. '40. was in a critical con­dition in a Vicksbur^, Hiss., hospital from injuries received in an' automobile accident in March, less than a week after he receved his wings in the Army Air Corps at Kelly Field. Tex. He was driv­ing from Kelly Held to Jackson. Miss., where he was to have been stationed, when the aeddent occurred. Joe, a football star at West Point, was graduated there in 1941. He was at Notre Dame for his freshman year, before receiving: his West Point appointment. 
Jim Plummer is in Headquarters first Coast Artillery Transport Detachment. San Francisco Fort of Embarkation, Fort McDowell. Calif. 
1941 Jokn W. Pattanon. Jr.. SSM Darlac­ton Bd., PittsbarA Pa. 
Tom HuUigan is in the Navy, aboard the V. S. 
S. Paducah. 
Tom Carroll, flying over the Naval Air Station at Jacksonville. Fla., fell out of a plane in a loop-the-loop at 4,000 feet, but palled his ripeord at 2,000 feet and landed. Tom wrote: "My safety belt came undone when I was doing some acro­batics with my instructor. The next time I put the plane on its back we parted company, and I remember exclaiming to myself that I was no longer in the plane." 
Ray Fidler writes from Huntington Park, Calif.: "I have been a student at the University of Southern California since- September. Tie law school started out with about 400 students and now has about one-fourth of that number. 
"Jim Spellman is at Fort Lewis, Wash., and Bob Langlois is in the Army Air Corps in T^xas. Dan KeUy is still in Syracuse selling insuranee." 
Pvt. Tom Carty, in Co. C. Sth Bn., Fort Hc-Clellan, Ala., is one of the more recent additions to our service men's file. 
George Zeller enlisted in the Army Aug. I, 1941 and is now stationed at Fort Totten, N. Y. He is in the 1219 Corps Area Service Unit, Quarter­master Detachment. 
Gene Quinn. ordnance inspector traveling for the Chicago ordnance district, stopped in Sooth Bend in March. He took a course at the Illinais InstHote of Technology, Chicago. 
Daniel McCarthy, who recently completed the graduate student course at Westingfaooae has ' been assigned to the Westinghouse Bevator Cotn­pany at Jersey City, N. J., as a junior engineer. 
Jackie Hayes, head football and basketball coach at Bockhuxst College, Kansas City, Ho., joined the Navy in January and reported at Norfolk, Va.. on Maxdi 18 to director with the rank of diitf nrr'«Btt. 
N.D.MeninN.C.C.S. 
Tile foUowinx is a most wdeooH note itami Jeha CMitway. exeentive diraetor of ttt bicht a of C(dumbiia Boy Lif* Btuaaa. Naw Anan. Ckam.' 
"In reading the itoi. on the ahmniia flw M. 
C. C. S., I note that you- have actual of mr former Knights of Cohimhas adwlara in tho Motn' Dame Boy Guidance Dqpaitntat Batad Oania aad tbooiM yon wooM he istereatad ia hanios a aaoce complete list. I amredate that Oeie-ua » i of names laeldnr, aHhoogh I have been i ing to keep pretty doae tah on the Ubw* alo­cated in the Boy Goidanee oonrae at Notre DesK on Kni^ta of Cohxmbaa "^^^^rtiiipf. 
Bcades Fiaak CaM and Daaay CakaM. Gbu* Fiaier and Paal MitrttMr. there ia ViMwt Ut­tl*. who ia area npeniaor for the Boeky »•—tr*~ states and alao covets Oregon, Washlagtofi' aad Alaska, whidi formerly were indndKi ia Flank Cane's ana : Maity OThdaa.' who ia now aariat­ant to Rank Cana in the California. Ncvada.nd Arizona area: nraak (Hsca. who ia abo aantias with F^ank Cane aa a dub diieetor: tta^ Ctjit. who is at the Wadiington headnnartcn. aa a . troohle shooter for the N.aCS. : Ed Badaak who is assistant director with Paul Kaholdle in the southeastern AUantie area: Bin tmmmka, -who ia club dircetw at Lawton, Okla.; Al Fhaaaaf. Frank MeGakrca and JaaM, Claike, win are dob dirtcton ia various parts of the country aa sentativesbftheN.CCA' " • 
"Uibaa Raphes ia Kni^U of Cohudns tary in charge of Canadian Knights of Cduabas war activities at tlie 'Torohtci Tt A F. Ilyias SehooL Adriaa Haaaa.is physical direetor at Camp Pine Tree in New York, in diarge of the prograia for 16,000 men located then. Jaaea Lantt. who ipaBt a year at C. XJ. working toward his doetdr'a de­gree, following his ccespletion of work at Notre Dame, has jmned the Canadian air f<«ea. 
"There are several other KniAts of Cohnabos sdiolaxa at Notre I>ame with the N.C.C.3 of wfaoai I do not have a record at the present time as to their exact status. 
Thi l Ryaa. one of our Knights of Cohnabos Boy Guidance sdolars. is with the American Bed Cross in Washington.** 
UmT . C. 6ABD OUVUMMk '41 ; Comaiiadaaed in the Army Air Coipa oai nb . 20 at Faster Field. TEX." 
V 

Stands for the Navy, at Notre Dame 
With the Navy Department's announcement that Notre Dame has been named ofEcially as a V-1 center, Notre Dame now offers undergraduates several attractive opportunities to pursue their education and at the same time to prepare themselves and their talents for the service of the government. The Navy Department, through Secretary Knox, Admiral Jacobs, Admiral Downes, Admiral Nimitz, and many other spokesmen, has expressed its appreciation 
of the cooperation of the University. 
V-1 * 
PRE-INDOCTRINATION TRAINING 
"This is !he latest procurement plan—a plan whereby the Navy hopes lo obtain 80. 000 pre-indoctrinated trainees-per year. Col­lege freshmen and sophomores between the ages of 17 and 19 inclusive who are of good moral character and in good physical con­dition may enlist in Class V-1 as apprentice seamen. After aproximately three semesters, during which they will study related Navy subjects, taught by the regular college faculty. V-1 men will be given a general examination. Those ranking sufficiently high in the exam­ination may transfer to Class V-5 or V-7 (see below) and continue their inactive status until completion of the academic requirements for those classes. Those whose scores on the examination are too low to warrant V-5 or V-7 training will be allowed to compete the 4-semester indoctrination course and then be called to active duty as apprentice seamen." (For further information or enlistment consult your nearest Navj* recruiting office or address Rev. James D. Trahey, C. S. C„ Notre Dame. Indiana.) 
V-5 * 
NAVAL AVIATION 
"Most Navy men regard this classification as TH E gilt-edge opportunity in the Naval Reserve. Contrary lo popular belief, you don't have lo be a super man to get in. You must, however, be between the ages of 19 and 26 inclusive, unmarried, and in good shape physically, if you haven't yet finished the required two years of college, you may enlist now and continue school until you have. You will receive 90 days training at one of the 16 reserve aviation bases, then be shipped lo the 'Annapolis of the Air' (at Pensacola. Fla.) or lo 'Jax' (Jacksonville. Fla.) or 'Corpus' (Corpus Christi. Tex.) for ad­vanced training. Upon receiving your Navy 'wings' and commission, you will also begin receiving $245 a month. Any Navy re­cruiting office will steer you (transportation paid) to the nearest Naval Aviation Cadet 
Selection Board." 
H '•' ..g 
"Ike M.ll.0.^.e. 
MQ 
B" 
A unit of the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps was established in Sep­tember at the University by order of Secretary Knox. Present Navy plans hare frozen these units both in number and in size. Consequently, at Notre Dame, freshmen, entering in September, are eligible for this training upon accept­ance after proper qualification, only with­in quota limits which permit a maximum unit strength of only about 10% of the University enrollment. For a limited number of the N.R.O.T.C. graduates there are three possibilities: commission as line officers in the regular naval ser­vice; commission as officers in the Supply 
•Corps of the Regular Navy, and com­mission as officers in the Regular Marine Corps Service. The Department of Nav­al Science and Tactics is an integral part of the University, and four years of satisfactory work (academic years) will result in both the bachelor's degree and the ensign's commission. Further details of the N.R.O.T.C. may be secured from the Registrar, Notre Dame, hid., or Capt. H. P. Burnett, U.S.N., command­er of the Notre Dame unit. (Capt. Bur­nett is also general commandant on the University campus, including in his com­mand the tiew V-7 program beginning 
April 75.; 
V-7 » 
MIDSHIPMAN TRAINING 

"Graduates of the three midshipman schools have won numerous citations for their activities aboard destroyers and 'mosquito' boats in the Pacific. If you are junior, seni­or, or graduate student between the ages of 20 and 27 inclusive, you may enlist now and be deferred from active duty until receipt of your degree. In earning the sheepskin, you must complete two semesters of math, includ­ing one course in plane trigonometry. You will then be given 30 days indoctrination at Notre Dame University and sent to one of the midshipman schools—at Northwestern or Columbia University or aboard the USS Prairie State in New York City. Upon completion of this 90-day course in seaman­ship, navigation, ordnance and gunnery, you will be commissioned an ensign in the Naval Reserve, with salary and allowances totaling $183 per month. In peace lime men go to .Annapolis for four years to earn the same commission in the regular Navy. Any Navy recruiting office can accept preliminary appli­cations for V-7 enlistment. 
"Whether or not they are called to im­mediate active duly, all men are draft-exempt after enlisting in the Naval Reserve. All agree to serve for the duration of the war except aviation cadets who agree to serve for 4 years unless released sooner by the Navy Department." 
*
 These quoted paragraphs on V-1, V-5 and V-7 are taken from a Navy Public Relations release. 

*
 It should also be noted that the V-1, V­5 and V-7 classifications permit the student to complete his work on an inactive status, at his own expense. 

N.
 B. In the N.R.O.T.C. the student is furnished with uniform, books and equip­ment for the course by the Navy. Extra allowances are made for the cruises required of the advance course men. 












