The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Bwai 
Vol. 36 No. 4 
May - June 1958 
James E. Armstrong, '25 Editor 
John F. Laughlin, '48 Managing Editor 
B" V* -•­
THE FAMILIAR LOURDES GROTTO 


^^.,3­

Center of the Centcnarj- Obseri-ances at Notre Dame site of the .Alumni Reunion Mass on June 8. 
(Storj- on page 2) 
WM.i&&^^M 
35th UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT A RECORD ONE 
Impressive New York setting indica­tive of growth of prestige and public relations in our 169 local clubs. 
(See editorial and club reports beginning on page 23) 


Class Reunion Weekend 
June 6-7-8  
Class  of 1908  Alumni  Hall  Class  of 1933  Howard  Hall  
Class  of 1913  Alumni  Hall  Class  of 1938  Morrissey  Hall  
Class  of 1918  Alumni  Hall  Class  of 1943  Morrissey  Hall  
Class  of 1923  Alumni  Hall  Class of 1948  Dillon  Hall  
Class  of 1928  Lyons  Hall  Class of 1953  Dillon  Hall  

Friday, June 6 
General Registration—Law Building. One fee, $20, will be collected at registration desk covering all general and class expenditures. 
Class Registration and Room Assignment will be in the halls as listed above. 
Weekend Golf Tournament beginning Friday. Special Monogram Golf Day (Monogram Clubbers only) Thursday, June 5 (all day). Mono­gram Club Headquarters: Alumni Hall. Monogram cocktail party and dinner 6:30 p.m., Thursday, Morris Inn. 
Class Events Scheduled on Friday Night: 1908—Supper, Morris Inn. 1913—Supper, Morris Inn. 1918—^Supper, Morris Inn. 1923—^Dinner, South Bend Country Club. 1928—Dinner, New North Dining Hall. 1933—Silver Jubilee Dinner, Morris Inn. 1938—Dinner, Rockne Memorial Lounge. 1943—Buffet, Morrissey Hall. 1948—Buffet, site to be announced. 1953—Buffet, Dillon Hall. 

Saturday, June 7 
Class Masses, Class Pictures, Golf Tournament, all day. 
Special President's Convocation, 11 a.m., Washington Hall. "State of the University" address. 
President's Luncheon for the 1933 Silver Jubilee Class. 
Bo.x Lunches for other reunion classes (noon). 
Tours—O'Shaughnessy Hall, LaFortune Center, Nieuwiand Science Building, and other places of interest (afternoon). 
Open Houses, 4:00 to 5:00 p.m. Most popular of the efforts to bring alumni into contact with Deans 'and former professors and the environment of their Colleges. Administrators and faculty members of Arts and Letters, Science, Commerce, and Engineering will be on hand in their respective buildings to greet alumni and discuss the College. 
Law Association Meeting in the Law Building, 4:00 to 5:00 p.m. 
Annual Alumni Banquet, New North University Dining Hall (evening). 

Sunday, June 8 
Lo'urdes Centenary Ma<is for Alumni, Grotto. 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Officers 

J. PATRICK CANNY, '28 Honorary President 
FRANCIS L. LAYDEN, '36 President 
EDMOND R. ILVGGAR, '38 
Club Vice-President 

EUGENE M . KENNEDY, '22 — _ Class Vice-President OSCAR J. DORWIN, '17 ; Fund Vice-President JAMES E. .ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary 
Directors to 1959 

FR^VNCIS L. LAYDEN, '36 701 College Highway, Evansville, Ind. 
EDMOND R. HAGGAR, '38 Haggar Company 6113 Lcmman Avenue, Dallas, Texas 
EuGE.VE M. KENNEDY, '22 174 S. Mansfield Avenue Los Angeles 36, Calif. . 
OSCAR J. DORWIN, '17 Texas Company 135 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y. 

Directors to 1960 

LEO J. VoGEL, '17 286 Magnolia Place, Pittsburgh 28, Pa. RAYMOND W. DURST, '26 840 Lathrop .•\ve.. River Forest, III. JULES K. DE LA VERGNE, '33 
• 413 Pcrc Marquette BIdg. New Orleans, Louisiana 
WILLIAM E. COTTER, JR., '41 114 Laurie St., Duluth 3, Minnesota 

Directors to 1961 

JOSEPH R. STEWART, '22 Kansas City Life Insurance Co. Bo.x 139 Kansas City 41, Missouri 
CHARLES E. ROHR, '30 Rohr's, ni l Chester, Cleveland, Ohio 
JAMES H . SHEILS, '35 McManus and Walker 39 Broadway, New York, New York 
JOHN C. O'CONNOR, '38 1000 Fidelitj- Trust Bldg. Indianapolis, Indiana 

Gliairmen of tlie 1958 Committees 
F. L. LAYDEN Executive 
E. R. HAGGAR ; Club Activities^ 
E. M . KENNEDY Class Activities 
O. J. DORWIN Alumni Fund, Foundation and Gifts 
E. R. HAGGAR Preparatory Schools L- J. VOGEL Placement and Job Counseling 
J. K. DE L/\ VERONE .... Inter-Alumni Affairs 
E. M. KENNEDY 
Prestige and Public Relations^ 

W. E. COTTER Religion and Citizenship 
E. R. HAGGAR AND 
E. M. KENNEDY Nominations 

R. W. DURST Budget and Finance 
L. J. VOGEL Resolutions 
This masazinc is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ler Oct. I, 1939, at the Post OlHcc, Notre Dame. Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, I9I2. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
The reappointment of Rev. Theodore 

M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., as president of the University was announced April 26 by Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C., provincial superior of the Holy Cross Fathers. 
Father Hesburgh has been serving as Notre Dame president and religious superior of the Holy Cross priests and Brothers associated with the University since 1952. He will relinquish the latter post in June, Father Mehling ex­plained, since religious superiors are limited to a maximum term of si.x years by canon law. A new religious superior for Notre Dame will be an­nounced later. Father Mehling said. 
In addition to his many responsi­bilities as the head of one of America's major universities, Father Hesbui^h also holds several important posts in the world of public affairs. He is a mem­ber of the Civil Rights Commission and the National Science Board. He is also peiTnanent Vatican City representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency. 
Father Hesburgh became sixteenth president of Notre Dame at the age of thirty-five in June, 1952. During the first six years of his administration the University has experienced one of its greatest periods of physical growth and internal academic development. Twelve campus buildings have been dedicated during the sbc-ycar period and new curricula have been established in the Notre Dame Law School and die un­dergraduate liberal arts and commerce schools. A comprehensive self-study has also been completed in the College of Engineering. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CS.C. 





Fr. Hesburgh Reappointed President of Notre Dame 
Will Relinquish Post As Religious Superior 
Faculty salaries have increased sub­stantially in recent years and a number of internationally recognized scholars and artists have been added to the faculty under Notre Dame's Distin­guished Professors Program. Father Hesburgh has encouraged a marked development of student government on the campus. There has aiso been a steady increase in the number of fel­lowships awarded to graduating seniors. Eighteen Notre Dame students received \Voodrow Wilson National Fellow­ships this year, the fifth largest group in the nation. 
Last March Father Hesbui^li an­nounced a $66,600,000 development program geared "to consolidate and further Notre Dame's academ.ic excel­lence during the next ten yeai-s." The long-range plan includes $27,000,000 in endowment for increased faculty salaries, $18,600,000 for buildings, $11,000,000 for research, $5,000,000 for student aid, and $5,000,000 for administrative puiposes. The Univer­sity recently completed a development program launched in 1947, exceeding its ten-year goal of $25,000,000 by more than $2,000,000. 
Prior to becoming Notre Dame's president in 1952, Father Hesburgh served for three years as executive vice-president of the University. During 1948-49 he was head of the religion department. He is the author of God and the World of Man, a widely used college te.\t, and his Patterns for Edu­cational Growth has just been pub­lished by the University of Notre-Dame Press. 
Father Hesburgh, who will be 41 on May 25, is a native of Syracuse, 
N. Y., where his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Bernard Hesburgh, still re­side. He was educated at Notre Dame and at the Gregorian University in Rome which awarded him a bachelor of philosophy degree in 1939. He was ordained to the priesthood on June 24, 1943, in Sacred Heart Church on the 
Notre Dame campus. In 1945 he re­ceived the degree of Doctor of Sacred Theology from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C. He holds honorary degrees from IJradley University, LeMoyne College and the Catholic University of Santiago, Chile. 
In addition to his membership on the Civil Rights Commission and the Na­tional Science Board, Father Hesburgh holds a number of other influential posts in the world of education, science 
\ and public affairs. He is a member of the Secretary of the Navy's newly-formed Advisory Board on Scientific Education and is a former member and president of the Board of Visitors at the U. S. Naval Academy. 
Father Hesburgh is a director and member of the over-all panel of the Special Studies Project of the Rocke­feller Brothers Fund. He is a member of the Policy Advisory Board of the Aigonne National Library and a direc­tor of the Midwest Universities Re­search Association, a non-profit corpo­ration formed by fifteen Midwest edu­cational institutions to conduct nuclear research. 
Notre Dame's president is a director and former vice president of the Insti­tute of International Education. He is also a director of the National Wood­row Wilson Fellowship Corporation, the Freedoms Foundation, the Nutri­tion Foundation and the Foimdation for Religious Action in the Social and Civic Order. 
Father Hesburgh has just completed terms of service on the Ford Motor Company and General Motors Corpo­ration scholarship boards. His other memberships and affiliations have in­cluded the Commission on Instruction and Evaluation of the American Coun­cil on Education; the Commission on Christian Higher Education of the Association of American Colleges; the Committee on Professional Accredit­ing Problems of the North Central Association. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 

Goglia Appointed John Mohardt, '22, Gipp Teammate, Engineering Dean Wins Plaudits as VA Surgery Chief 
The appointment of Dr. Mario J. Goglia as dean of the College of Engi­neering at Notre Dame was announced April 2. 
Dr. Goglia, who will assume liis new duties July 1, has been serving as 
Regents' Pro ­
fessor of Me­
chanical Engi­
neering at the 
Georgia Insti­
tute of Tech­
nology. Atlanta. 
He succeeds 
Dean Karl E. 
Schoenherr 
ii^SsB who leaves Notre Dame at 
Dr. Mario GogHa ^,^^ ^ ^ ^^ ^ ^ 

current school year to become teclinical director of the hydromechanics labora­tory at the Navy's David Taylor Model Basin, Carderock, Maryland. 
A specialist in thermodjuamics and co-author of a text on the subject, Goglia joined the Georgia Tech faculty in 1948 after receiving his doctorate from Purdue University, West Lafay­ette, Ind. He taught mechanical engi­neering at Purdue during 1947-48 and at die University of Illinois, Cham­paign-Urbana, from 1938 to 1946. The 42-year-old engineering educator re­ceived the Naval Ordnance Award for liis AVorld AVar II research in the muni­tions development laboratories at Illinois. 
Currently Dr. GogHa is a consultant to tlie K-25 technical division of the Union Carbide Nuclear Co., Oak Ridge, Tenn., and to tlie Redstone Arsenal Research Division of Rohm and Haas. One of his current research projects is concerned with tlie tliermal diflFusivit)' of rocket propellants. He has been a frequent contributor to pro­fessional engineering journals. 
Dr. Goglia was elevated to die post of Regents' Professor by tlie Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia in 1955. In addition to his teaching and his work as a research as­sociate at Georgia Tech's Engineering Experiment Station, he has served on several Institute committees including the Committee on Educational Aims and Objectives, tlie Graduate Council, the Administrative Council, the Nu­clear Energy Committee and the Cur­
Noire Dame Alumnus, May-June^ 1958 

Early in April it was announced that Dr. John H. Mohardt, '22, had been appointed assistant director of the Vet­erans Administration's surgical service in Washington, D. C. This is only an­other step in the remarkable career of the former halfback star for Notre Dame and tlie Chicago Bears, who seems to have achieved distinction after distinction as a suigeon in the hardest possible way. 
John, who graduated with honors as a Notre Dame pre-med, used his eam­
riculum Committee. He has also served as faculty advisor to a number of Georgia Tech student oiganizations in­cluding the campus chapter of the American Society of Mechanical Engi­neers, Tau Beta Pi, Pi Tau Sigma and the Newman Club. 
Notre Dame's new engineering dean is a member and former chairman of the Atlanta section of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. He is chaiiman of t^vo of the ASME's na­tional committees — tlie Heat Transfer Division Committee on Theorj' and Fimdamental Research and the Instru­ments and Regulators Division Educa­tion Committee. He is a member of the inspection committee of die Engi­neers' Council for Professional Develop­ment, Region IV, and has been vice president of die Pi Tau Sigma Na­tional Council since 1953. 
A registered professional engineei", Dr. Goglia is also a fellow of the Ameri­can Association for the Advancement of Science. His other aifiliadons include the American Society for Engineering Education, Pi Mu Epsilon, Sigma Xi, Phi Kappa Phi and Tau Beta Pi. In 1953 he \\'as chosen by TIME and the Atlanta Chamber of Commerce as one of Adanta's "100 Leaders of To­morrow." 
Bom in Hoboken, N. J., Goglia studied at the Stevens Institute of Technology there, receiving the me­chanical engineering and master of science degrees in 1937 and 1941 re­spectively. Wliile teaching at the Uni­versity of Illinois he married tlie for­mer Juanita DLxon of Aledo, 111., in 1940. They have two children: David, 14, and Rozanne, 12. 
ings as a pro football and semi-pro baseball player to finance a three-year course at Northwestem's medical school. 
George Halas, owner of the Chicago Bears, said: "Mohardt was a man with a mission. He dedicated himself to the medical profession soon after he joined the Bears in the Twenties and never wavered. The Chicago Bears are proud of John Mohardt." 
Bom in Gary, Indiana, to a family of extremely modest means, Johnny showed hb athletic prowess as a high school star in football, baseball and track. At Notre Dame he played under the late Knute K. Rockne and shared backfield honors with George Gipp. In liis tliree-year collegiate career the Irish suffered only one loss, "a heart-breaker," John recalls, to Iowa, 10-7, in 1921. 
Jolm started his pro football career with the Chicago Cardinals, switching to the Bears and finishing as a playing coach of the old Cliicago Bulls. A teammate of Red Grange, he says: "I guess I was the only player who had the pleasure of blocking for both Gipp and Grange." 
After serving liis intemsliip at Mercy Hospital in Chicago, die young sui'geon was appointed to die world-famed Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, on a fellowship. He returned to Chi­cago in 1933 and set up private prac­tice, followed by election to the College of Surgeons and appointments to the staffs of Nordiwestem's Rush Medical School, Mercy, Cook County, Wesley and Hines Hospitals. 
Enlisting in the army at the opening of AVorld War II in 1941, John served overseas in North Africa and Italy wth the 12th General Hospital Unit. After liis discharge as a lieutenant colonel he returned to private practice in Chicago. 
In 1955 he accepted an appointment with the VA as chief surgeon of the veterans hospital at Fort Bayard, New Me.\ico, where he has served imtil the recent appointment to Washington. 
Having met and married Dorothy Harrison while he was at Mayo in tile Thirties, John is now the father of two children, Mona and John, and the grandfather of three. 
Father Sorin on, Notre Dame has 
from your 

sought important and imposing teachers 

ZdUo^Ual Qo4fi4fie4iiiAlumni Secretary 
to hasten and enlarge this process. Now 
Big is not a bad word. 

Webster's first meaning is "strong, mighty." His second meaning is "large  in size, bulk, extent." His third mean­ing is "pregnant, swelling, teem­ing." He says of the voice, "full and loud." His fifth meaning is "important, im­posing." And his last meaning is "magnanimous." 
James E.Armstrong 
In working on Univereal Notre Dame 

, Night and on the new program of the Foundation in this significant year of 1958, I have received the impression that one of the hidden fears of our alumni is that Notre Dame is becoming big. And I think the fallacy of this fear is that it is interpreted only in the 
f second meaning of Webster—large in size, bulk, extent. 
Even this quality is not essentially bad. But it is not enough in itself. Football coaches will tell you that. Empty factories can prove it. Some universities are suffering: from it. 
What we want you to do is to inter­pret the whole definition when the con­cept is decried. 
We want Notre Dame to be strong and mighty. We feel that when its physical plant and its faculty were much smaller, its student body much smaller, the purpose, the teaching and 
•^ the courage of Notre Dame was strong and mighty. We know that in bygone years the athletic teams were strong and mighty when their organization, pre­paration and incentives were far less. 
Notre Dame would not be properly 

• big unless its classrooms and labora­tories and residence halls were preg­nant, swelling and teeming with the processes of life that join the knowl­edge of the past to the creative pro­visions for the future in the young minds of embryo leaders. And in the 
"^ small anft, the modest evidence of faith, the litde sacrifices that reflect themselves in the small gift, lie the ' seeds of desired bigness, just as the hands and the offerings of thousands went into the old cathedrals. 
) We want the voice of Notre Dame to be full and loud. Unless its voice can carry the truth which is the great heritage of its teaching into the many channels of the world which challenges this truth while it needs it most, much of its value and much of its purpose will be lost. This is an era when truth especially needs a voice that is full and loud. It is essential to the destiny of Notre Dame that its voice as a Uni­versity be full and loud, and that in turn the voices of its thousands of alumni become full and loud ampli­fiers of this fundamental truth. 
We want Notre Dame to be impor­tant and imposing. These will not come from the tangibles alone, from build­ings and landscape. They must come, as Father Cavanaugh and Father Hesburgh have repeated over and over, from faculty and students and alumni who are important and imposing re­flections of the proper pursuit of its great purpose as a University. Many of the parents of alumni foresaw the necessity of higher education for the important and imposing men of the future and lighted the fires of ambition and held out the incentives of eff'ort to anve vou this education. From you are being asked to prepare your own children for the more intensive demands that the progressive world makes on a man before he achieves important or imposing stature. 
The last meaning is far from the least in significance — magnanimous. If Notre Dame is to retain the qualities of magnanimity that mark its whole history, the help to its students, the consideration for its faculty, the rela­tions with its alumni in the increasing importance of this continuing tie, and to contribute generously to the whole development of Catholic education. Catholic culture. Catholic influence in this country, it can cnly seek those re­sources essential to the implenting of this traditional generosity. 
So, to the small Club, to the small Class, to the small gift donor, look at this broad and real definition of big­ness. You possess many of its real at­tributes. You will grow into others. You should be afraid of none. 
—James E. Armstrong, Editor 
7 ^*-i3^S 

These latter-day "minims" are all sons of Notre Dame alumni enrolled at Notre Dame Camp, Bankson Lake, Lawton, Michigan, operated and staffed by the Brothers of Holy Cross for boys age 9 to 14. Their busy day includes communal prayer, work and play, including daily Mass, study, crafts and competitive sports, plus riding, archery, hilting, boating and swim­ming. The first of three two-week sessions opens this year on June 29, and the third closes August 9. In the front row, left to right, are Gary Kohs, Ralph Staunton, Peter Haller, Curtis Kohs and Gerard Gausselin; behind them, left to right, are John Niezer, Charles Niezer, Dennis Humphrey, Terry Quinn and Walter Riley. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
SUPREME COURT 
The "Role of die Supreme Court in the American Constitutional System" was the subject of a symposium at the Notre Dame Law School on April 18. Mr. David F. Ma.xwell of Philadelphia, immediate past president of the Ameri­can Bar Association, presided. In ring­ing terms he called upon American lawyers to rally to the defense of the Supreme Court against irresponsible attacks. 
In ojjening the S)'mposium, Dean O'Meara said: 
, "Criticism is helpful to the Su­preme Court, as to other human in­stitutions. The attacks upon tlie Court in the last years have never­theless resulted in a serious situation, because die attackers have had the field pretty much to themselves. It is diis situation wliich has called for our Symposium. Its purpose is to examine die function of the Supreme Court and the conditions under which it necessarily operates, and in diis way to illuminate some of the far reacliing questions involved. 
"It is no part of our program to debate die merits or demerits of the decisions on which critics of the Court base their assaults upon it. Our concern is for the Supreme Court as an institution — for the Court as the ultimate guardian un­der the Constitution of the rights and liberties which have made America die promised land, for the Court as the chief spokesman for the Rule of Law in an increasingly law­less world." 
The participants in the Symposium, in addition to Mr. Maxwell, were: Mr. Carl McGowan, a member of the Chicago firm of Ross & O'Keefe and General Counsel of the Chicago and North AVestem Railroad; Professor Robert A. Lcflar of the University of Arkansas School of Law, formerly a member of the Supreme Court of that state; Dean Eugene V. Rostow of the Yale University Law School; and Pro­fessor Sheldon D. Elliott, Director of the Institute of Judicial Adminbtration at New York University School of Law and Secretary of the American Bar As­sociation's Section of Legal Education and Admissions to the Bar. 
An editorial in the Philadelphia Daily News for April 19 applauds the Symposium. The editorial be^ns by observing that "all is not pimts and passes and touchdowns at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame." Then, after discussing the-Symposium, it concludes as follows: 
"'Cheer, cheer for Old Notre Dame' for becoming vocal about the attack on die Court. The bar in general has been much too silent." 

LAW DAY IN U. S. A. 
Law Day U. S. A. was obser\'ed jointly by die Notre Dame Law School and the St. Joseph County Bar Asso­ciation with a dinner at the Indiana Club on May 1. Judge John S. Hast­ings of the United States Court of Ap­peals for the Seventh Circuit was die speaker. Students and faculty of the Schools were invited to attend a guests of the Association — a wonder­ful demonstration of interest and gen­erosity on the part of the practicing, bar. 
In addition, the School arranged to present for the entire faculty and student body of the University the motion picture entitled "With Liberty and Justice For All." This was first produced on the Omnibus television program, with Joseph Welch as nar­rator. It telk the story of the great cases, beginning with Ex parte Mil­iigan, in which the Supreme Court of the United States has upheld "the principle of guaranteed fimdamental rights of individuals imder the law" which President Eisenhower has de­scribed as "the heart and-sinew of our nation." The film was shown twice, at 4:15 in the afternoon and again at 
8:15 in the evening on May 1 — LAW DAY U. S. A. 

LAW HONOR BANQUET 
The president of the American Bar Association, Charles S. Rhyne of Washington, D. C, was the featured speaker at the Law Honor Banquet on May 10. This annual affair affords an opportunity to salute the members of the graduating class and, at the same time, to recognize the achieve­ments of all members of the student body who have distinguished themselves in one way or another. Speakers in previous years include Robert F. Ken­nedy, Chief Counsel of the United States Senate's Select Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field, and Justice Stanley 
F. Reed of the Supreme Court of the United States. 


STUDENTS APPOINTED 
Notre Dame is on the list of law schools which is visited annually by a representative of the Attorney General of the United States in connection with the Attorney General's Recruitment Program for Honor Law Graduates. Offers of employment, under this pro­gram, have been received by three members of this year's graduating class, namely, John F. Murray of Elmira, New York; Edward N. Denn of Utica, New York; and Geoi^e A. Patterson of Miami, Florida. Mr. Murray, who ranks second in his class, has accepted; Mr. Patterson had a previous commit­ment to go to work for Uncle Sam as a lieutenant in the Army; Mr. Denn had already accepted appointment as law clerk for Judge Charles Fahy of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Mr. Denn is Editor-in-Chief of the Notre Dame Lawyer and Mr. Patterson is Articles Editor. The Associate Editor, Mr. Eugene F. Wayne of Levittown, Pennsylvania, will be law clerk for Judge John Biggs, Jr. of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit; the Managing Editor, Mr. John 
P. Callahan, Jr., of Chicago, will be law clerk for Judge Roger J. Kiley of the Appellate Court of Illinois. 
(Continued on page 22) 

6 Notre Dame AlumnuSj May-June^ 1958 






NOTED ALUMNI NAMED TO ADVISORY COUNCIL 
FACULTY PROFILES 
DEVERE T. PLUNKEH 
Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters 
An associate professor in histor>\ 

Deverc Plunkett has served for several 
years as assistant dean of Arts and Let­
ters. He has taught American histor)' 
since graduation 
in 1930. 
Bom in 1907 

in Cadillac; 
Michigan, son of 
Irish - Americans 
Alexander an d 
Sarali Plunkett, 
bot h deceased. 
Professor Plunk­
ett is the brother of the late Professor 
Donald Plunkett, who was head of the 
biology department at the time of his 
death last year. Known to friends and 
classmates as "Dev," he is secretarj' of 
the Class of '30 and conducts its 
column in the ALUMNUS. 
Professor Plunkett obtained the de­gree of Master of Arts at Notre Dame in 1936 and pursued advanced studies at the University of Chicago in 1946­
47. He is a member of the American Association of University Professors and the American Historical Association. An authority on U. S. constitutional history, he is the author of articles in­cluding a study of former Chief Justice Vinson in The Grail magazine. 
During World AVar II he served as a captain in the U. S. Air Force train­ing command. He is unmarried. 

THOMAS T. MURPHY 

Assistant Dean of the College , of Commerce 
Thomas Murphy, a faculty member since 1946, holds the rank of associate professor in the department of finance. Last year he succeeded Prof. Edmund 
A. Smith as as­sistant dean of 
* Commerce. 
A specialist in business finance, he has been on the teaching staff of the Program f: ^ for Administra- s»> tors since 1952 „^^_____ __^_^ ^ and was named director m 1955. Cur­rently he is director of the Summer Management Program for Notre Dame alumni, an extension of a program re­cently instituted for local business and industrial leaders. 
Professor Murphy was awarded un­dergraduate and master's degrees by Boston University, has had advanced study at the University of Michigan and is a candidate for a doctorate at Notre Dame. He is also a graduate of the U. S. Naval War College, a former destroyer officer and a lieuten­ant commander in the U. S. Naxy Reserve. 
Prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty he taught at Holy Cross Col­lege, Worcester, Mass., and Aquinas College, Grand Rapids, Mich., and served as a finance consultant to sev­eral firms. He is a member of the American Economic Association, the American Finance Association and the Indiana Academy of Social Sciences. 

RAYMOND J. SCHUBMEHL 
Assistant Dean of the College 
of Engineering 

Professor Schubmehl has been with the faculty since 1922. Possessor of Bachelor and Master of Science degrees from the University, he is an associate 
professor of en­
gineering me­
chanics. 
He was bom 
i n Perkinsville, 
N. Y., in 1896, to William F. and Mary Schub­mehl, now de­ceased, and 

seived in the U. S. Navy in 1918-19 while still a student. In 1927 he mar-lied Natalie Smith of South Bend, now deceased. He has two children, Wil­liam and Barbara June. Since 1949 he has been married to the former Ann McCartney of South Bend. 
Among Professor Schubmehl's aca­demic affiliations is membership in the Advisory Council for Engineering of the Catholic University of America, AVashington, D. C. He has been em­ployed by the Mamer Co. of Benton Harbor, Michigan, and the Hildebrand Nelson and E. R. Newland companies of South Bend. 
Five prominent industrial executives and an eminent heart surgeon, all but one of them alumni, have been ap­pointed members of Notre Dame's Advisory Council for Science and Engi­neering. 
They are Arthur N. BecVjur, '33, industrial design manager of major ap­pliances for The General Electric Co., Louisville, Ky.; Paul J. Harrington, '26, assistant chief engineer of The Standard Oil Development Corp., New York, N. Y.; Dr. Charies A. Hufnagel, 37, Georgetown University Medical Center, AVashington, D. C ; William E. Mahin, '28, president of the Malleable Research and Development Founda­tion, Granville, Ohio; Thomas H. Vaughn, 31', executive vice-president, Pabst Brewing Company, Chicago, 111. and John J. Powers, president of Pfizer International, New York, N. Y. 
The newly completed group met on the campus May 2-3. The Council is composed of thirty-three nationally prominent industrialists, scientists and engineers who meet semi-annually at Notre Dame to consult with University officials on the curricula, research pro­grams and other policy matters affect­ing the Colleges of Science and Engi­neering. 
BecVar has served as president of the American Society of Industrial Design­ers. He has been associated with Gen­eral Electric since 1946 and has headed its appliance design section since 1951. He received an advanced degree in in­dustrial design from Charles University, Prague, Czechoslovakia. 
Harrington, a chemical engineering graduate, took a master's degree at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He has been a member of the Standard Oil organization since 1929. As a Notre Dame undergraduate Harrington was captain of the track team. 
Hufnagel has won international rec-o<mition by developing new techniques for heart surgery. He is a professor of sui^cal research and associate profes­sor of surgery at the Georgetown Uni­versity Medical School. He is a con­sultant to the Bethesda Naval Medical Center and the National Institutes of Health and is also a graduate of the Harvard University Medical School. 
Mahin, specialist in metallurgical re­search, formerly was associated with (Continued on page 22) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June. 1958 
'GOLDEN THREADS WOVEN FOREVER their culinary work thirty years ago 
when a growing student body neces­sitated the erection of a dining hall. 
University Says Good-Bye 
In recent years the Holy Cross Sisters have continued their labors in the 
To 'Women of Notre Dame' 
Notre Dame laundry. Until a few 
Notre Dame said a prayerful thank you and a reluctant good-bye May 4 to a group of Holy Cross nuns who with their predecessors have ser\'ed the Uni­versity for 115 years. 
A Solemn High Mass in the con­vent chapel on the campus marked the departure of virtually all the nuns from the Notre Dame scene. 'Whereas more than one hundred nuns at one time filled the campus convent, only five Sisters will now remain at the Uni­versity to care for altar linens and to staff the Student Infinnary where they will reside. 
Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C, tlieir longtime chaplain and a veteran Notre Dame faculty member, celebrated tlie Mass. The sermon was preached by Rev. Ardiur Hope, C.S.C., author of Notre Dame — One Hundred Years, the official history of the University. A citation of appreciation to tlie Sisters was read during the ser\'ices by Fatlier Hesburgh. 
The first four Sisters of the Holy Cross came to Notre Dame in July, 1843, less than a year after Rev. Ed­ward F. Sorin, C.S.C., Notre Dame's first president, and his companions ar­rived at the site of the future Uni­versity. Their quarters were the loft of the log chapel whose replica on the campus today is a reminder of the frontier hardships which these coura­geous and holy women endured. 
For the first Notre Dame men — Holy Cross priests. Brothers and a small group of students — tlie nuns prepared meals, washed and mended clodies and cleaned their spartan quarters. The group of Holy Cross nuns at Notre Dame, many of them recruited for the religious life by Father Sorin himself, grew steadily with the University. Even­tually Sorin built to the rear of Sacred Heart Church and the Administration Building what is now known as tlie convent. It was large enough to ac­commodate more than one hundred nuns. 
By this time there were some 500 priests. Brothers and students at Notre Dame to wash, clean and cook for. The Sisters also served as proofreaders and in various other capacities at The Ave Maria, a weekly Catholic magazine published on the campus. Still another of their responsibilities was the "Min­ims," a group of grade school youngsters who were quartered in St. Edward's Hall. Until 1921 it was possible for a boy to receive his entire education — grade school, high school and college 
— at Notre Dame. 
Through the years the Holy Cross Sisters have operated tlie Student In­firmary on the campus, caring solic­itously for the sick and injured. Their patients have included thousands of x'ictims of flu and measles and many other maladies as well as athletes and would-be athletes who broke an arm or leg when they zigged when they should have zagged. Still others, aging priests and students, too, they have ministered to in the final hours of their lives. 
For a period of eighty-four years, from 1843 to 1927, die Holy Cross Sisters prepared and ser\'ed meals three times a day to Notre Dame's student body and religious faculty. Many of the dishes they ser\'cd and the pastries they prepared are still remembered with relish by older generations of 
Notre Dame men. They relinquished weeks ago two of tlie nuns folded thousands of students' handkerchiefs each week. Alumni recall one Holy Cross nun who remembered them years after their graduation not by their names but by their laundry numbers! 
On Monday morning, just a few hours after Notre Dame's official fare­well, thirteen Holy Cross nuns, some of whom ser\'ed the University for more than fifty years, went "across the road" to St. Mary's College to spend the rest of tlieir days at the Motherhouse. Most of the labors wliicli the Sisters per­formed at Notre Dame have now been taken over by younger hands and auto­matic equipment. AVithout their more than a century of service, Notre Dame would not be what it is today. 
In the words of the citation read by Father Hesburgh: 
"While you leave the campus which has been your home for so many years, you can never leave the hearts and af­fectionate memory of the priests and Brothers of Holy Cross and the adminis­trators, faculty and students of the University of Notre Dame. You have been golden threads woven forever into the tapestr)' of her life." 
Centennial of Blessed Virgin's apparition at Lourdes was celebrated Feb. 11 with a Solemn High Mass and procession in Sacred Heart Church with a relic of St. Bemadette (on altar, far right) now installed at Lourdes altar (in background) for Lourdes Centennial Year. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
JliL>uin4f> AiAacitUloH. 

The letter on this page was received from John T. Frederick,, professor of English at the University. Professor Frederick is well known in the world of letters, having edited The 
Midland, a famous region­al literary mag­azine, and con­ducted the popular CBS radio series "Of Men and Books" for many years while on leave [ from the Univei-sity at Northwestem's Medill School of Journalism. He is author and editor of several books and anthologies including, with the late Rev. Leo L. AVard, C.S.C., the classic English composition textbook Reading 
* for Writing. 
Students Establish Fund for Scholarships 
The Notre Dame student body has presented a check for $9,000 to the University administration to establish 
« a series of scholarships beginning with the 1958-59 school year. Designated the Notre Dame Student Body Scholar­ship Fund, the money represents a sub­stantial portion of the receipts from tlie 1958 campus Mardi Gras. 
Participating in the presentation were 

' Jerr)' M. Brady, Idaho Falls, Idalio, retiring student body president; AVil­liam D. Shaul, Akron, Oliio, newly elected president; Father Hesburgh; and Rev. Richard Murphy, C.S.G., di­rector of admissions and scholarships 
( at the Univei-sity. Establishment of the fund marks the first major student gift 
; in the University's ten year, §66,600,000 
; development program. 
' According to Brady, $6,000 of the new fund is to provide scholarships for freshmen entering Notre Dame next 
* September. Three incoming freshmen will be awarded $500 grants for each of their four yeare at tlie University. Grants totalling $3,000 will be allo­cated to sophomores, juniors and seniors at die discretion of the Uni­versity's scholarsliip committee. Brady and Shaul indicated that the student-sponsored scholarships will be con­tinued in future years. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
ENGLISH DEPARTMENT 

April 21, 1958 Mr. James E. Armstrong, Editor, 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS, 
Dear Mr. Armstrong: 

I have been deeply interested in the letters you have published recently, from Mr. AValter Trohan and Mr. Vem Sneider, concerning the impor­tance of our University Library and its future prospects. 
As a teacher, I share with my colleagues a strong convicdon of the importance of our library in relation to the total function of the Universit)'. In almost all departments, tlie librar)' is our one essential tool and resource. I suppose that our degree of success in helping our students to prepare themselves for rewarding and useful lives depends, first of all, upon our own capacity and dedication as teachers, and on our cooperation with one another in the common cause. But beyond this we are more dependent on the resources of the librarj' and the help of its staff than on any other factor. Indeed, it is not too much to say that we cannot have a great university in the fullest sense without a great library. 
A great university library is first of all one able to supply all the books and other printed materials needful or desirable for the student's best interest in every course, from the freshman year to the doctoral level, and able to supply these promptly when and as they are needed. But it is something more than that. It is the intellectual center of imiversity life. This means that it is more than a tool. It is a vitalizing power, a challenge and inspiration, as well as an essential practical resource. 
I believe that the best thing that can happen to a young man in his university life, intellectually speaking, is to learn to read "on his own" — for the intrinsic pleasure and reward of reading, beyond and even apart from course requirements. This is a habit that he will carry with him, after courses are completed and degrees attained, to the immeasureable enrichment of his whole life. The acquirement of this habit is a deeper and broader thing, even, than his actual enjoyment of his rights as an heir to all the thought and experience of the ages, waiting for him in books. It is an essential part of his realization of himself as a human person, in the development of his o\wi standards of taste and conduct and of his understanding of others. 
For this high function, the University Library needs to be a concrete expression of the best possibilities not only for the working student but also for the free reader. To this end special collections of the work of writers old and new, of books on widely varied subjects of special interest and importance, and simply of books worth reading for themselves apart from class assignments, are not only desirable but necessary. It is in this aspect of its work especially that I feel the Univenity Library can be signally enriched and strengthened by the contributions both large and small and the organized interest and help of all those who desire to make the library of our University as rich in resources and as adequate in offerings and services as the high achievement and the great destiny of Notre Dame demand. 
Sincerely yours, 
/s/ John T. Frederick 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
Eyc-levcl «c«- of the proposed §800,000 science building at King's College, a school con­ducted by the Congregation of Holy Cross at Wilkes-Barre, Px, shows how the new structure will integrate and extend the facilities of the college's main building. John W. Davis, '32, of Harrisburg, Pa., is a member of the architecture firm which designed the building. 
Engineers Mark Tenth Birthday Of Prize Student Publication 
{By Frank Moore and Cliet Raymo, associate editors of the Technical Review) 
Ten years ago an imusual experi­

ment began at Notre Dame when die 
official publication of die College of 
Engineering was bom under the guid­
ance of Dean Schocnherr. This experi­
ment continues each year as the Notre 
Dame Technical Review grows in qual­
ity and reputation. The story of the 
Technical Review is typical of what 
students can produce when given the 
opportunity. 
In 1948 when Notre Dame decided 

to start its own engineering publication 
the initative came from the students. 
Two mechanical engineers, Jolin VVech­
mann and Ernest Okleshen, undertook 
the Job of publishing a periodical for 
tlieir department. The idea soon grew 
into a magazine encompassing all de­
partments of the college. The backing 
of the University was secured, and the 
first issue of die TR rolled off the 
presses the following fall. 
Writing in that first issue, William 

J. Ruoff, the first editor, stated, "It is only fitting and proper that the College of Engineering of the University of Notre Dame, the oldest CathoUc engi­neering school in this country, and one of the oldest in die Midwest, should support a technical magazine — and one that is second to none." 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
In 1951 the TR was accepted as a 

member of the Engineering College 
Magazine Association, a group with 
high magazine standards. 
Each year this organization makes 

awards for superiority in die various 
phases of magazine make-up and 
Notre Dame has succeeded in taking 
its share of the honors. The Technical 
Review has won firet prizes in such 
diverse accomplishments as Best Edi­
torials, Best Illustrations, Best Single 
Issue, and Year's Best Covers. In 1953 
it was awarded second prize as Best 
AU-Around Magazine. Tliis is quite 
an accomplisliment for the youngest 
member of die Notre Dame family of 
magazines and a publication which be­
longs entirely to engineering students. 
The Technical Review is divided in­

to six all-student staffs: business, fea­
tures, copy, articles, art and layout, 
and circulation. 
An article begins its journey toward pubUcation in tiie hands of the articles editor who has selected it from diose submitted to him by any student in the college. It is then passed on to the copy editor, who, with his staff, re­writes all passages that fail to meet editorial standards. This article is for­warded to the associate editors for ad­ditional comment and lastiy to the editor-in-chief where final corrections are made. 
Feature articles, that is, articles writ­ten by actual staff members and usually concerned with local matters, follow a similar path except they pass through the features editor. 
After retyping, the copy is read be­fore it is sent to the Ave Maria Press for publication in the form of long columns of print known as galleys. In the meantime, the art and layout staff, in coordination with the editor and business manager, begins work on the actual layout of the magazine. 
When the galleys are received from the printer they are proofread for mis­takes and pasted in the pages of a dummy, or sample magazine, courtesy of the art and layout department, in the manner in which they will appear in the regular edition. This dummy is sent to the printers, completing the final step, save for. the reading of the final page proofs, in creating a magazine. 
In one sense, the most important staff mentioned is the business staff with the duty of selling ads, both local and national, die latter obtained from an advertising firm, and assisting in die layout. This staff controls die finances and hence the income of the Technical Review, which derives" its basic capital from the sale of advertise­ments in conjunction with the sale of 
, subscriptions. The size of the TR and number of subscriptions has steadily increased. Today approximately 2500 people re­ceive an eighty-page issue of the TR quarterly during the school year. Since Volume One, Number One, it has moved into the black, and is now self-supporting. Yet, the Technical Review has not met with financial success alone. Many of its articles have been reprinted for use in industrj'. It is also continually renewed by scientific journals dirough­out the world, for example, The Journal of the Russian Academy of Science. 
Tliroughout its growth many things have remained die same. In the original office on the third floor of the engineering building it is still the engi­neering students who prepare the mag­azine for press. The TR has added a professional touch to Notre Dame, and in so doing has increased the standing of the engineering college. It has actively participated in all external and internal college affairs fulfilUng the hope of its first editor "to serve the students of the College of Engineering in a way that will make it a thing of pride to all men of Notre Dame." 
Rocket Chief Bill O'SuUivan,'37, Has Key Role in Satellite Race 
Guides Research for International Geophysical Year 
An aeronautical engineering graduate who tinkered with telescopes and home­made rockets as a boy in Louisville,, Kentucky, is playing a leading part in the nation's satellite program. 
William J. O'Sullivan, Jr., '37, heads the space-vehicle group of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics. Among his projects at the N.A.C.A.'s Langley Laboratory near Hampton, Va., is a balloon-like "subsatellite" to orbit around the globe like Explorer I. 
The quarter-pound subsatellite, a 9­pound comer reflector, and a 40-pound nose cone containing delicate measur­ing instniments will play an important part in the success of this country's research during the International Geo­physical Year. These relatively small objects represent the contribution of the N.A.C.A. in the field of space re­search. Add to them a 12-foot sub-satellite that the N.A.C.A. has tested for an Army Explorer satellite launch­ing. 
The group devising these inexpensive but delicate instruments is headed by Bill O'Sullivan, assistant to the chief of the Pilotless Aircraft Research Divi­sion of the Langley Air Force Base 
N.A.C.A. Laboratory. Bill explains the space vehicles this way: 
The subsatellite for the Vanguard (Navy) satellite project is a 30-inch diameter aluminum-coated plastic • sphere folded like an accordion just under the main satellite and released in the third stage inflated by a small tank of nitrogen gas weighing .19 of a pound. The complete unit weighs just .69 of a pound and is designed to orbit around the earth about 150 times and remain aloft about 10 days at altitudes ranging from 250 to 300 miles. The comer reflector is also de­signed to be a satellite, sending back radar signals of reflected sunlight. 
The nose cone contains the "brains" of the N.A.C.A.'s inexpensive rocket, a space device that functions like sounding equipment in geological study, sending back atmospheric data. The rocket has two solid propellant motors that carry the instruments to altitudes of more than 100 miles at speeds over 4,000 m.p.h. About 100 launchings are scheduled for the I.G.Y.. which ends in December. The two stage rocket has a Nike booster as its first stage and an 

N.A.C.A. high-performance Cajun as the second. At its test site in Virginia the N.A.C.A. has launched rockets with as many as five stages, propelling re­search vehicles more than a million feet into space at speeds exceeding 8,000 
m.p.h. More than 3,000 rockets and missiles have been launched at the station since 1945. 
Bill has also co-ordinated work of the group on sounding rockets. He lives in Hampton with his wife and five children. 
A cousin recalls him as a boy "who was always experimenting with things. . . . He ground a telescope lens once." The cousin was present when Bill con­ducted what was probably his. first ex­periment in missiles and rocketry: "We found a 22-caliber cartridge some­where. He put it in a small piece of pipe and we fired it somehow." 
Bill's picture appeared in an article on N.A.C.A. in the Febmary 15 Satur­day Evening Post. He was shown mounting a deflated plastic-aluminum subsatellite on a rocket nose. 
Engineers Entertain Thousands At Seventh Annual Open House 
The seventh annual Engineering Open House was held on April 25, 26, and 27. "Explorama" was the theme of the 1958 exposition which included departmental displays, an auto show, an air show, a professional engineering demonstration, and the traditional chariot race. 
During the three days thousands of people came to the campus to view the exhibits, watch the demonstrations, and hear about engineering. The purpose of the Open House was to display ad­vances in the engineering profession and the activities of the Notre Dame engineer. Under the chairmanship of Bob Nonis, the Open House committee developed a series of displays and events worthy of a show which is tra­ditionally bigger and better every year. This year a special effort was made to invite local high school students in order that they might have a better idea of what an engineering education cntjiils. 
The Auto Show which was in prog­ress in the Drill Hall on each of the dates of the Open House, included many of the "Detroit Dream Cars" and a line of foreign and domestic sports cars. On Saturday a representative of Indiana Bell Telephone spoke on "Our National Defense." Each department of the college vied for the coveted trophy in the Chariot Race that fol­lowed. The Air Show Sunday after­noon featured light aircraft and stunt flying. 
The departmental exhibits this year encompassed a greater part of the en­gineering education than ever before. Both student-constructed and industrial demonstrations were employed and for the first time the Heat Power Lab of the Mechanical Engineering Depart­ment was open to the public. In ad­dition there were displays on artificial satellites, electronic cooking and wash­ing, reactor materials, and smoke precipitation. 
These vislton to the Engineering Open House new an X-ray diffraction exhibit showing models of crystal structure and how X-rays are used to dctennine them. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 11 
Three New Study Programs Two Senior Awards Increase Fulbright 
Widen Academic Horizons 
Scholars to Five 
Three new programs added recently to Notre Dame's graduate and under­graduate curricula will further extend the academic frontiers of tlie Universitv when they are undertaken this summer and fall. Exemphfying the internal de­velopment that underlies tlie physical expansion of the past ten years, the programs include: advanced studies in business administi-ation for religious at­tending summer sessions, inaugurated in recent years, the first graduate course ever available in the College of Com­merce; a graduate course in theolog%', heretofore available only in summer school, now open to lay and religious students in the regular school year: and an undergraduate program in engi­neering science to meet the need for a general familiarity with the many branches of engineering occasioned by today's complex technology. 
SUMMER M.B.A. 

A new program of courses leading to a master's degree in business adminis­tration and specifically designed for members of religious communities will be continued by the College of Com­merce at this year's summer session, June 20 to August 5, and the first 
M.B.A. degrees will be conferred by 1960. 

According to Dean James W. Culli­ton, the summer business administra­tion program will provide advanced professional training for the competent teaching of business subjects and for effective leadership in eleemos>'nary institutions. Priests, Brothers and Sisters engaged in high school and col­lege teaching or in the management of hospitals and other institutions will find the program "especially attrac­tive," he said, because of the emphasis placed upon.die knowledge and skills needed in such work. 
GRADUATE THEOLOGY 

A graduate program leading to the degree of master of arts in theolog)' will be inaugurated next September. Designed primarily as a preparation for doctoral studies, the new diree-semester program will be open to priests, Brotli­ers. Sisters and lajTiien, Father Beichner said. 
While the Notre Dame religion de­partment has conducted a highly suc­cessful summer graduate teaching-training program for eleven years, the new master's degree sequence in the­olog)' is the first to be offered during die regular school year. According to Rev. Roland Simonitsch, G.S.C., head of tlie department, the new program is geared "to produce educators who are well prepared to cope with the chal­lenge and demands of mature religious education as well as to give die proper tlieological insight necessary for effec­tive lay leadership." 
ENGINEERING SCIENCE 

An undei^raduate program in engi­neering science will be inaugurated in the College of Engineering in Septem­ber, according to Rev. Philip S. Moore. C.S.C., vice-president for academic af­fairs. Father Moore also disclosed that the department of engineering me­chanics, exclusively a graduate unit imtil now, has been renamed the de­partment of engineering science and will administer the new program of studies. Dr. Adolph G. Strandhagen will continue as head of the newly designated department. 
According to Strandhagen today's complex engineering systems, such as those required by rockets and nuclear installations, have created the need for engineering graduates mth an over-all perspective. While specialists in die several traditional branches of engineer­ing are still very much in demand, modem engineering systems also require tliat someone coordinate and properly balance tlie various specialties for smooth operation of the whole system. 
Notre Dame's new engineering sci­ence program, Strandhagen continued, will be geared "to produce a flexible student, one who can adapt himself to the rapidly changing technology of modem times. It will provide the stu­dent with a broad foundation, a prep­aration, a potential for entering and advancing in new and as yet unde­veloped fields of engineering, not as a specialist in any isolated portion, but as one who can grasp, visualize and coordinate the whole." 
Two additional members of the "Uni­

versity of Notre Dame's senior class 
have been awarded Fulbright grants 
for graduate study abroad during the 
1958-59 school year, the International 
Educational Exchange Service of the 
State Department has announced. 
They are William B. Griffith, Smith­

field, Texas, and Michael F. Kennedy, 
Boston, Massachusetts. Both have been 
enrolled in Notre Dame's General 
Program of Liberal Education. 
Griffith plans to take advanced studies in philosophy at the University of Louvain in Belgium while Kennedy will study acting at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art. 
Previously announced Notre Dame winners of Fulbright awards include Theodore J. Collins, ^Vaitsburg, ^Vash­ington; Victor R. Kopidlansky, Cato, Wisconsin; and Ralph C. Nelson, Park Ridge, Illinois. Their plans for future study are detailed in the students sec­tion of the "Campus Today" feature on page 17. 
Rubber Companies Grant Fellowships 
. The General Tire and Rubber Co., Akron, Ohio, has made a grant of $8,800 to support two fellowships in the Notre Dame physics department, ac­cording to an announcement by Assist­ant Dean Francis X. Bradley of the Graduate School. The fellowships, which provide a stipend of $3,400 each, have been awarded to Bemard J. Weig­man, Baltimore, Md., and Louis G. LaMarca, Schenectady, N. Y. The bal­ance of the grant, Bradley said, is being used to purchase equipment for their research in poljoner physics under the supervision of Dr. Robert L. Anthony. 
Notre Dame also recently received a grant of $2,200 renewing the United States Rubber Foundation Fellowship, Bradley said. The fellowship will be held in the spring and fall semester by Robert H. Becker, Greenville, Pa., a graduate student in chemistry. 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
OLDEST UVING ALUMNUS 
Five Retiring Faculty Men 
IS AaiVE IN POLITICS 
Arthur P. Perley, '82, believed to be!' 

Feted at President's Dinner 
• Five retiring faculty members who liave sei-ved Notre Dame a total of 170 years were awarded plaques at the annual President's Dinner for the Faculty in the New North Dining Hall on campus May 14. 
Paul R. Byrne, '13, curator of the University Art Galleries, has been on . the campus since 1922. For many years he was director of the University Library. He has degrees from Notre Dame and the University of the State of New York. 
Thomas P. Madden, '27, professor of English, has taught since 1929, hav­ing received his degree from the Uni­versity two years prior. 
Gilbert J. Coty, '25, professor of modem languages, has been teaching French at Notre Dame since gradua­tion. He received his A.M. from the University of Michigan. Professor Cot)''s wife died recently. 
Frank Horan, professor of civil engi­neering, has served in the department since 1921. A graduate of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, he is the only non-alumnus. 
Elton E. Richter, J.D. '26, professor of law, has taught in the Law School since 1923. He received A.B. and A.M. degrees from the University of Chicago. 
Honored for twenty-five years of service to the University were Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president for academic affairs; Dean Lawrence Baldinger of the College of Science; Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the historj- department; Ronald 
E. Rich, head of the chemical engi­neering department; Edward A. Coomes, physics; Rev. Edward A. Kel­
' ler, C.S.C., economics; Rev. James E. Moran, C.S.C., classics; Dominick J. Napolitano, physical education; and Francis J. O'Malley, English. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., was host and principal speaker at the 
. dinner which honored the five retiring faculty members, the nine professors who are observing their 25th anniver­sary on the faculty, and forty newly promoted professors. Approximately 700 members of the faculty and the University administration and their wives attended the event which was held for the first time in the new din­ing facility. 
The elevation of Dr. Patrick Mc-

Cusker and Dr. Boleslaw Szczesniak to the rank of professor was announced by Father Moore. McCusker, who Joined the faculty in 1937, has specialized in inorganic chemistry. Szczesniak, an authority on the history of Russia and the Far East, has been teaching at Notre Dame since 1949. 
Father Moore disclosed the promo­tion of twenty-three faculty members to the rank of associate professor. They are Cornelius Browne, physics; James 
L. Cullather, accounting; Rev. Ralph Davis, C.S.C., chemistry; Joseph Evans and Boleslaw Sobocinski, philosophy; Irving Glicksberg, Joseph Sullivan and Robert VVeinstock, mathematics; Rev. Philip Hanley, O.P. and Rev. Francis Nealy, O.P., religion; Francis Kobay­ashi, mechanical engineering; Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., and Robert 
A. Leader, art; Eugene J. Leahy and Robert O'Brien, music; Robert D. Nuner, modem languages; Robert Rodes and Bernard Ward, law; Rich­ard Schoeck, English; Robert W. Strickler, education; George W. Viger, finance; Milton Wilcox, electrical engi­neering; and Bernard Wostihann, Lobund Institute. 
the oldest living Notre Dame alumnus, is still extremely acUve in politics in South Bend, Indiana. 
Mr. Perley is president of the South Bend Regular Democratic Club. In May a letter over his signature was sent to all registered Democrats in the city urging support of candidates slated by the regular party organization in the St. Joseph County primaries May 6. All but three slated candidates for major offices were nominated for the Democratic ballot in the fall. 
CINCINNATI N.D. CLUB 
SETS UP PERPETUAL 
SCHOLARSHIP FUND 

The Notre Dame Club of Cincinnau, Ohio, has sent the Notre Dame Foun­dadon, via Coach Terry Brennan, a check for 84,111.11, the proceeds from the last Scholarship Ball. 
This addition to Cincinnati's princi­pal fund for scholarships brings the fund to $25,000, the intended goal of. the Club, and establishes the scholar­ship grants of the Cincinnati Club in perpetuity. 
Edward P. "Slip" Madigan, '20 (left), Notre Dame football great and former coach at St. Mary's in California, shows his son Ed, '54, a typical street sign in a subdivision he is erect­ing in Concord, Calif. A lawyer and architect, he has been building housing develoiHnents for 10 years, loves to bestow such street names as Four Horseman. Lane. Slip and Jimmy Fhelan, '17, were ushered into the Helms Athletic Foundation Hall of Fame May 10 in a ceremony emceed by actor Pat O'Brien. Slip was the subject of a recent pro6]e by John Dengel in the Oakland, Calif., Tribune. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 13 
In the past few months nine Notre Dame alumni have been recognized for outstanding civic leadership and service to their respective communities all over the eastern United States. They have won distinguished ser\'ice and "man of the year" awards not from Notre Dame clubs but from newspapers and civic organizations, including several "Young Man of tlic Year" citations from local 
Men of the Year 

Nine Alumni Honored By Their Communities 
branches of die Junior Chamber of Commerce. Following are brief ac­counts of their achievements. 
William F. Grant, '45 

His work in improving traffic conditions in Eric, Pa., has won for William F. Grant, '45, advertising manager of the Firch Bak­ing Co., Inc., the Eric J a y c e e s award as "Out­standing Young Man of the Year." Bill has been on the boards of direc­tors of both the Erie Safety Council, a Chamber of Commerce activ­ity, and the Erie Civic Theater Association, which operates the "Playhouse." He has been co-chainnan of the United Fund, active in the Y.M.C..'\. and other civic projects and charities. On Universal Notre Dame Night he \vas installed as vice presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of Erie. Bill and his wife Mary Agnes have three sons, Patrick J., 6/=, William F. II, 5, and Chris­topher M., 3. 
Frank R. Paxton, '48 

Frank R. Paxton, '48, who in 1957 "headed the most successful Community Chest campaign ever staged in Paducah and McCracken County," ha s won the Dis­tinguished Serv­ice .^ward of the Paducah, K y. , Jaycees. Frank is vic e president and a director of Paducah News­papers, Inc., which publishes the Paducah _ Sun-Democrat, and an officer of WPSD tele\*ision. He is a member of the River­side Hospital Commission, Paducah .'Associa­tion of Commerce, the mayor's labor-man­
agement panel, Rotarj' Club and several other civic and religious organizations. In the wake of many Community Chest fail­ures Frank organized a group which raised $87,000 for the 10 Chest agencies in 1958, 52,000 more than the most ambitious Chest goal c\*er set for the Kentucky community. This summer he intends to be married to Miss Margery .^nn Gepner of Paducah. 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
George F. O'Brien, '34 
George F. O'Brien, '34, "a leader in 

public housing, slum clearance and com­
munity betterment programs for the past 
decade" in Dan­
bury, Conn., was 
the first recipient 
of the Danbury 
News-Times Civ­
ic .Achievement 
.•Award, bestowed 
in February. .\n 
insurance and 
travel agent in 
the firm of Stev­
cns, Allen & 
O'Brien, Inc., 
George received a silver bowl engraved 
with his name and his citation. He ^vas 
nominated in a poll of the newspaper's 
readers, one of whom expressed the views 
of many by saying that his work in public 
housing and urban renewal was "u-ithout 
doubt the greatest single contribution in 
the community." Since 1947 George has 
been a member of the Town Housing Au­
thority for veterans; the City Housing .'Au­
thority, of which he has been chairman 
for five years: the recently established City 
Redevelopment Agency, of which he has 
also been elected chairman, and a director 
of the Greater Danbury Association. A 
member of the Danbury hospital board, he 
has been chairman of Red Cross and Com­
munity Chest drives, president of Rotary, 
commander of his VFW post and a mem­ber of a dozen other business, civic, re­ligious and military organizations, plus the Notre Dame Club of AVestem Connecticut. George and his wife Florence have five children, three boys and two girls. 
Richard E. O'ConncU, Jr., '48 

"Marshall's Outstanding Young Man of 1957," named at a recent Distinguished Ser\-icc .-Award banquet of the Marshall, M i n n., Jaycees, ^^ESfi^SSi is Richard E. O'Connell, Jr., '48, known to nearly all the W?''T'''i citizens of the Minnesota com­m u n i t y as "Dick," a local Ford and Mer-cur>' dealer. He was president of the Marshall Ci\nc and Commerce .'Association in 1956 and 1957 and remains on the board, plus the boards of the Marshall Police Com­mission, the Lions, Marshall Community 
Chest and the Marshall Golf Club, having scr\-cd several of these as chairman. .-Among several other organizations, Dick has been chairman of the Marshall and Lyon Coun­ty chapters of the Red Cross and a local and area chairman of the National .Auto­mobile Dealers Association. .-A member of the Ford Dealers Council and Ford's Na­tional Advertising committee, he received outstanding dealer awards from both Ford and Mercury divisions in 1957. Dick and his wife Edith ("Bubbles") have five chil­dren, Dickie, Peg, Betsy, Tom and Michele. 
Harney E. O'Neill, '51 
The Peru, Ind., Daily Tribune recently 

announced the selection of Har\-ey E. 
O'Neill, '51, vice-president of Kingsbury & 
Co., as the news­
paper's Man of 
the Year. Har­
vey, a relative 
newcomer to 
Peru and Miami 
County, was 
chosen principal­
ly for his person­
al dedication as 
chairman of the 
first Miami 
County United 
Fund drive held in 1957, the largest drive ever held in the area. When others were la.\ in their efforts, the paper said, Har\cy "picked up the responsibilities himself rath­er than complain that others were not do­ing the job." Giving every free moment, including week ends, to the work, he found it encroaching on business hours and took a week of his annual \'acation so he could devote full time to the UF. "Rarely," the citation concluded, "docs a person dedicate himself so entirely with such great personal sacrifice." Haney and his wife Nancy have two sons. 
Frank E. Sullivan, '49 

Frank E. Sullivan, '49, was selected by the South Bend Junior Chamber of Com­merce as the city's Outstanding Young Man over the past year. He was chosen from among eight finalists for his "outstan ding community ser\-­ice through his loyal, faithful and unselfish ef­forts resulting in a lasting contri­bution to the 
community." Commended for his participa­Center. Having directed the Jaycees' first tion in several community projects includ­annual Rodeo last year, he has been named 
Three Schools Will 
ing the United Fund campaign, hospital general chairman for the 1958 version and fund drive, Moreau Seminary campaign is active in several other organizations. Bill and South Bend Chamber of Commerce and his wife Connie have five children. membership activities, Frank has also been 

Confer Degrees on 
chosen to lead the 1958 United Fund drive. 
Once a secretary to Frank Leahy, he is now a member of McArdle-Sulli\'an Agency, 

} Inc., and American United Life Insurance Company's "Man of the Year" in premium volume for 1957, leading all other agents throughout the nation. In 1956 he quali­fied for the Million Dollar Round Table for the third consecutive year, thereby achieving life membership. His 1957 sales were also in excess of $1 million. "Sully" and his wife Collctte have four children, two boys and two girls. 
Ronald S. Malcc, '51 
Ronald S. Malec, '51, trustee of the Vil­lage of LaOrange Park, LaGrange, 111., is his community's distinguished citizen for 1958, having '"" ' rated the title afte r consider­able winnowing of candidates by the Jaycees of Chicago's Wes t Suburbs. Ron's citation includes special praise for his work as pres­ident of the Gar­field Civic .As­sociation and public works chairman ol the Village Board, for his efforts in the paving of area streets at substantial savings and a neighborhood tree-planting program. .An honor grad in commerce and law, Ron is a member of the Illinois and Indiana bars and won a gold medal for the highest grade in the Indiana C.P./\. examination. He be­longs to several professional and church or­ganizations. Formerly senior tax account­ant with .Arthur .Anderson & Co., Ron is now assistant to the treasurer of Signode Steel Strapping Co., is married and has three daughters. 

, William G. Greif, '51 
William G. Greif, '51, a partner in the law firm of \Valker & ^Valker, was recently named winner of the Distinguished Ser\-icc .Award presented by the Evans­ville, Ind., Jay­cees. .A former assistant city at­torney. Bin was appointed by the mayor of E\'ans­ville in 1957 as executive secre­tary of the city's Redevel o p m e n t 
j Commission, di-^____^ «™_i_^_^ 1 recting a $1.5 million urban rene\val and slum clearance program. He is also chair­
• man of the Mayor's Sidewalk Committee, directing the laying of miles of sidewalks, and has been chairman of the fund-raising committee for the Children's rehabilitation 
Frank J. PaN'alko, '53 

The Key West, Fla., Junior Chamber of Commerce gave its 20th anniversary Dis­tinguished Ser\'icc .Award for "Outstanding Young Man" to Frank J. Paval­ko, M. A. '53, Key West High School teacher and "all around man," choosing him over a direc­tor of the Salva­tion .Army and a local business and political leader. The letter nom­inating Frank enumerated ten ser\'ices he had performed for the community, all extra­curricular, including personal help and counsel in employment and education; writ­ing, producing, and directing numerous shows for charity or to entertain the handi­capped; directing Community Chest and March of Dimes campaigns; and filling a wide range of necessary jobs at the high school. 
The .ALUMNUS salutes these men for enterprise, leadership and a spirit of public scr\Mce worthy of sons of Notre Dame. 
Cornerstone 

President Hesburgh 

Father Hesburgh will be the com­mencement speaker and receive honor­ary degrees at three colleges and imi­versities during the coming month. 
The institutions honoring Father Hesburgh include Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire; Villanova University, Villanova, Pennsylvania; and Saint Benedict's College, Atchison, Kansas. 
Father Hesburgh will deUver the principal address and receive an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from St. Benedict's College May 28. Vil­lanova University will confer an hon­orary Doctor of Science degree on the Notre Dame president at its commence­ment exercises Jime 2. He vnll be awarded another honorary Doctor of Laws degree and give a major address June 8 at Dartmouth College's com­mencement. 
Laid for 

New Moreau Seminary 
Cornerstone laying ceremonies for the new $3,000,000 Moreau Seminar)' on the University of Notre Dame campus were held May 13. Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C, pro­vincial superior of the Holy Cross Fathers, trowelled mortar on the huge block in a quiet morning ritual. 
The blessing of the cornerstone fol­lowed a Solemn High Mass celebrated by Father Mehling in Sacred Heart Church on the campus at 9:30 a.m. The two events marked the close of the centennial obsen'ance of the Vati­can's approval of the constitutions of the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1857. 
Assisting Father Mehling at the Mass was Rev. Charles Callahan, C.S.C, superior of the Holy Cross Mission Band, deacon, and Rev. Bernard Niemier, C.S.C, pastor of St. Casimir's Church, South Bend, sub-deacon. The sermon was preached by Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C, director of province development. 
Ground was broken for the new four-story seminary last May 13 and the buff brick structure will be dedicated and occupied in the fall. The building is named for the founder of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross, Rev. Basil Anthony Moreau, whose cause for beatification has been introduced at the Vatican. 
Moreau Seminary will accommodate approximately 200 seminarians and faculty memben. The building in­cludes living quarters, a chapel, dining room, classrooms and a gymnasium. The new house of studies for Holy Cross seminarians attending Notre Dame is situated on the north shore of St. Joseph Lake opposite the campus proper. The architect is Belli and Belli, Incorporated, Chicago, Illinois, and the general contractor is McCarthy Brothers Construction Company of St. Louis, Missouri. Funds for the building are being raised jointly by the province 
development  organization  and  the  
Notre Dame Foundation.  
Notre  Dame  Alumnus,  May-June,  1958  IS  

University 

DISTINGUISHED VISITOR: Austria's Chan­cellor Julius Raab received an honorar)' LL.D. and delivered a major address in AVashington Hall at a special University convocation May 22. The Austrian chief of state arrived from AVashington, where he had conferred with President Eisen­hower and Secretarj' of State Dulles at the White House. He was honored at a reception and lunch­eon at the Morris Inn and toured the campus with Father Hesburgh, who had met him in Vienna while attending the general conference of the International Atomic Enei^ Agency last fall as a permanent Vatican City representative. . . . MANAGEMENT PROGRAM: Preparations are completed for the new Summer Management Program instituted by the College of Commerce and designed for Notre Dame alumni who wnsh to keep abreast of current trends and prepare for new opportunities in business management. The program will be conducted in one-week cycles beginning July 7, 14 and 21, and will cover marketing management, business finance, human relations and communications, economic environ­ment, control and the humanities. It is directed by Assistant Dean Thomas T. Murphy. . . . ARCHITECTS MEET: Architects from four Midwestern states convened at the University April 17 for a three-day regional conference of the American Institute of Architects on "Urban Planning and the Architect." More than 100 members of AIA's Great Lakes District attended sessions in the Morris Inn. . . . STILL TOPS: Notre Dame is still the largest Catholic imiversity for men, according to the January 11 issue of America magazine, with 5,911 full-time students. Among all Catholic schools the enrollment is still second to tliat of Marquette with 6,722 full-time students, 1,966 of whom are co-eds, and a total (including part-time students) of 9,949 to 
Notre Dame's 6,039 BIOLOGY BUILDING NAMED: The University's biology building, erected in 1937 but never formally named, has been designated Wenninger-Kirsch Biology Hall in memory of two of Notre Dame's outstanding priest-scientists. The three-story building will memorialize Rev. Alexander Kitsch, C.S.C., Luxembourg-bom scientist who taught 44 years at the University and directed scientific studies from 1874 to 1918; and Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., a native of Austria who served as dean of the College of Science from 1923 to 1940. . . . HISTORY WORKSHOPS: Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, head of the history department, has an­nounced two workshops during the summer ses­sion to formulate syllabi for high school courses in American and world histor)'. The American His­tory Workshop will be held from June 23 to July 
11, AVorld Histor)' from July 14 to August 1, sponsored by the histor)' department and the History Teachers Club. .. . IT & T GRANTS: Notre Dame is one of 26 schools named by Inter­national Telephone and Telegraph as recipients of $100,000 for scholarships, fellowships and edu­cational grants to schools offering degrees in electri­cal engineering, physics and mathematics. . . . LAW SYMPOSIUM: The Notre Dame Law School held a symposium April 18'on "The Role of the Supreme Court in the American Constitu­tional System. (See Law page.) 
Faculty-Administration 
THE PRESIDENT: Father Hesburgh, just re­appointed to anotlier term as president of the University, attended the first meeting of the Navy's newly-formed Advisor)' Board on Scientific Educa­tion April 28-29 in the Pentagon. His tenu re­cently e-vpired on the U. S. Naval Academy Board of Visitors. . . . GRANTS FOR CAPONIGRI: Dr. A. Robert Caponigri, professor of philosophy, lias received grants totalling $4,200 to support his research and writing, including a Grace Founda­tion grant of $3,000 to complete and publish Modern Catholic Thinkers, an anthology of re­cent European Cadiolic writings, and $1,200 from the American Philosophical Society to conduct re­search for an intellectual biography of the late Italian philosopher Benedetto Croce. . . . MEDIAEVALIST LECTURES: Rev. A. L. Gabriel, O. Praem., director of Notre Dame's Mediaeval Institute, has been lecturing at several European universities on "International Coopera­tion at the Mediaeval Universities." A knight of the Legion of Honor, he has received the French Academy's Thorlet prize for his latest book. . . . KERTESZ ON GUGGENHEIM: Dr. Stephen Kertesz, professor of political science and head of the Committee on International Relations, has 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
been awarded a Guggenheim fellowship to conduct research on multilateral diplomacy in the U. N. and NATO, will take a semester's leave next fall to study at the U. N., the State Department and in Western Europe. The former Hungarian diplo­mat intends to publish his findings in another book. . . . REILLY LECTURER: Dr. James Westwater, associate professor of chemical engi­neering at the University of Illinois, delivered three Reilly lectures on boiling liquids imder the aus­pices of the chemical engineering department in March. . . . PRIZE PAINTING: Prof. Stanley S. Sessler, head of the art department, was awarded first prize in oil painting at the 15th Annual Art Salon of Northern Indiana for a still life. "The IronKetde." .. . ATTENDS CON\'ENf ION: Rev. Thomas J. McDonagh, C.S.C., chairman of the economics department, attended April meet­ings of the Midwest Economics Association in Des Moines, Iowa. . . . HISTORIAN TO VISIT: Rev. Guillaume de Bertier de Sauvigny, C.J.M., of the Catholic Institute of Paris, will lecture in the histor)' department next fall on European diplo­matic history during the French Restoration. He will also give four public lectures on Mettemich marking the centenary of the Austrian diplomat's death. . . . ARTIST SPEAKS: Rev. .Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., of the art department, gave a talk on "The Christocentric Artist" at the Newman Club's ninth annual Christocentric Arts Festival at the University of Illinois March 30. . . . AID TO S.M.U.: Dr. James A. Reyniers, former di­rector of Lobund Institute, has been consulted by trustees of Southern Methodist Univei-sity's new Graduate Research Center on problems of or­ganization and curriculum. . . . CHEMIST HONORED: Dr. William S. Johnson, professor of chemistry at the U. of Wisconsin and the 1956 Reilly lecturer at Notre Dame, has re­ceived the $1,000 American Chemical Society Award for creative work in synthetic organic chemistry. . . . ADVISORS MEET: "Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C., foreign student advisor, participated in discussions of East-West student exchanges at a conference of the National Asso­ciation of Foreign Student Advisors at the U. of Michigan April 27-30. . . . MAGICIAN: 
G. Herbert True, assistant professor of marketing, used magic tricks to illustrate points in his talk at a recent management development conference at Marquette U., included pouring a beaker of milk into the conference director's ear. 
Religion 

MASS BE.'VTS MISSILES: Despite the launching of rockets and satellites, the Holy Sacri­fice of the Mass remains "the most marvellous victory which has been won over time and space," said Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C., editor of The Catholic Boy, in a nationwide radio address on the CBS "Church of the Air." The Mass is "a proj'ection through time and space of the sacrifice of Christ upon the cross . . . the mystery of our redemption on Calvary daily renewed around the 
earth, circling it, uninterrupted for nineteen cen­turies, from altar to altar over countless orbits of divine grace." . . . CONFRATERNITY BLESSED: Pope Pius XII has extended his spe­cial apostolic benediction to members of the Con­fraternity of the Immaculate Conception of Our Lady of Lourdes \vith headquarters on the Notre Dame campus. The annoimcement cablegram, prompted by efforts of the Notre Dame Club of Rome and signed by Msgr. Dell'Acqua, Vatican substitute secretary of state, said: "The Holy Father is deeply gratified and greatly consoled to learn of the reorganization of the Confraternity. . . . On the occasion of the Lourdes Centenary year he prays that your efforts be crowned %vith comforting success and cordially imparts to the director, officers and members of the Confraternity his special apostolic benediction." . . . RE­FORMATION STUDY: After five yean of re­search in German archives Rev. John P. Dolan, C.S.C., has finished a book on Erasmian influences in the Church ordinances of the lower Rhine in the 16th Centuiy, published in Germany as a part of the Church history series Corpus Catholicorum. . . . PROGRESS IN PAKISTAN: Rev. Vincent McCauley, C.S.C., Superior of Holy Cross Foreign mission, has been touring the missions of Pakistan and has written to describe a great ex­pansion of parishes and schools in Dacca. . . . BEATIFICATION STARTED: The beatifica­tion cause of Brother Andre, C.S.C., has been in-
in Vatican Citv. 

Students 
18 WILSONS WON: Eighteen Notre Dame seniors have been awarded Woodrow Wilson Na­tional Fellowships for graduate study in 1958-59, of which only 1,000 were available. The N.D. group is fifth largest nationally, fourth among male schools and the largest at any Catholic school. Winners are: Robert G. Bowman, Sacramento, Calif.; Michael J. Crowe, Kansas City, Mo.; Peter F. DeVito, Staten Island, N. Y.; William E. Dorenbusch, Middletown, O.; George K. Francis, South Bend; Gerald J. Goodwin, Cambridge, Mass.; William B. Griffith, Smithfield, Texas; Ernest V. Haberkem, University City, Mo.; David 
L. Kamath, Kenmore, N. Y.; John T. Keams, Champaign, 111.; James L. McDonald, Cincinnati, Ohio; Paul F. McGraw, Sherman, Te.\as; Paul 
R. Moran, Coudersport, Pa.; George T. Oser, Houston, Texas; Steve A. Piascek, South Bend, Michael A. Schork, Elyria, Ohio; John M. Ste­czynsky, and Thomas D. Walsh, Chicago, 111. . . . 3 FULBRIGHT SCHOLARS: The State De­partment's International Educational Exchange Sei-vice has awarded Fulbright grants to three Notre Dame students for graduate study abroad during 1958-59. Theodore J. Collins, Waitsbuig, Wash., a senior in economics, vnll study at Rhenish Friedrich Wilhelms University, Boim, Germany. Victor R. Kopilansky, Cato, Wise., a Grace Foimdation fellow in the N. D. Medieval 
Noire Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
Continued from [iremous page
The Campus Today 
Institute, will study medieval historj- in Copcn­hj^en, Denmark. Ralph C. Nelson, Park Ridge, 111., a Ph.D. candidate, will study philosophy at the Catholic Institute of Paris, France. . . . CAVANAUGH \VINNERS-. Rev. John J. Cava­naugh Law Sciiolarships, establislied in honor of the director of the N. D. Foundation and former president and awarded annually to two senioi's witii "exceptional scholastic ability," went this year to Thomas M. Clusserath, Fort \\'a\-ne, Ind., and Paul B. Coffey, LoiTain, Ohio, graduating seniors in liberal arts and commerce, respectively. . . . ADVERTISING HONOR: Loran R. She'f­fer, a senior from Lansing, Mich., represented the University at "Inside Advertising Week," an annual event sponsored by the advertising indus­tr)', in New York City April 6-11. He was selected by a faculty committee as the outstanding adver­tising student in the College of Commerce. . . . MUSICIANS TRAVEL: The Notre Dame Band and Glee Club spent the Easter vacation on sepa­rate cross-countr\' tours. The concert band, di­rected by Prof. F. O'Brien, headed East and North­east for eleven performances in Pennsylvania, Con­necticut, Rhode Island, New Jersey, New York, Massachusetts and Ohio. The glee club, under Prof. Daniel H. Pcdlke, swung South and South­west for eight concerts in Georgia, Florida, Mis­sissippi, Texas and Kentucky. Among the souve­nirs of the band trip was a crucifix made of anthracite presented by sponsoring King's College alumni in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
Lobund Institute Gets Ten-Member Advisory Board 
The creation of an advisoiy board 

for tlie University's Lobund Institute 
was announced in March. 
The ten-man group, composed of outstanding biological and medical scientists, held its first meeting on the campus March 17. Dr. Lowell T. Coggeshall, dean of the Division of Biological Sciences at the University of Chicago, was elected chairman of the board. 
At its inaugural meeting the Lobund advisory board reviewed the Institute's research program and discussed plans for its future development. The group also studied plans for the administra­tive reorganization of the famed germ-free research center. 
Members of the Lobund advisoiy board, in addition to Dean Coggeshall, are Dr. AVilliam D. McElroy, director of the McCollum-Pratt Institute, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, 
•Md.: Dr. Richard E. Shope and Dr. MacljTi McCarty, Rockefeller Institute, New York City: Dr. Thomas Francis, Jr., School of Public Health, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor: Dr. Gail M. Dack, director of the Food Research Institute, University of Chicago; Dr. Charles K. Whiteliair, professor of animal nutrition and physiology, and Dr. H. J. Stafseth, professor of micro­biology and public health, Michigan 
18 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
State University, East Lansing; Dr. Gil­bert F. Otto, Abbott Laboratories, Chicago: and Dr. Benjamin W. Zwei­fach, professor of patholog)' at New York University's Bellevue Medical Center. 
All were present for the first meeting of the advisor)' board except Doctor Francis. Also in attendance were rep­resentatives of the Notre Dame admin­istration and the Lobund staff. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—Bert Metzger, '31, "watch chami" guard under Coach Knulc Rockne, was the featured speaker at the Valley Club's annual Rockne Communion Breakfast March 30. In ceremonies at Highland Cemetery after the breakfast Bert placed wreaths at the graves of Rockne, late track coach John Nicholson, and late basketball coach George Keogan. 
Joseph Scott, Laetare Medalist, Dies at 90 
Joseph Scott, LL.D. '15, attorney, civic leader. Catholic layman and Notre Dame's 1918 Laetare medalist, died March 24 in Los Angeles, Calif., at the age of 90. 
A Scotch-Irish immigrant, Mr. Scott came to the United States in 1889, worked in Boston as a hod carrier and in 1893 arrived in Los Angeles to study law. He established the Knights of Columbus in California in 1902 and during World \Var I directed K. of C. welfare work in France and England. In 1928 he was named a Knight Com­mander of St. Gregory. 
His Eminence James Francis Cardinal Mclntyre presided at Requiem Mass March 29 in St. Vibiana's Cathedral, Los Angeles, offered by Mr. Scott's son Msgr. George M. Scott, pastor of Man-Star of the Sea Church, San Pedro. In his seiTTion Bishop Joseph T. Mc-Gucken of Sacramento said: "It would be impossible to separate in the life of Joseph Scott his activities as a lay apostle and as a citizen and patriot. One is the= support and inspiration of the other. Only so long as the teaching of religion, which the government can neither impart nor forbid, is en­couraged through freedom of educa­tion will our way of life survive.". 
Mr. Scott is survived by his wife Bertha, three daughters and three sons, all Notre Dame alumni. Judge A. A. Scott, LL.B. '22, Rt. Rev. Geoige, '22, and Cuthbert J., '24. Another son. Father Patrick Scott, died in 1948. 
This Irish starting lineup guided the Notre Dame baseball team, coached by Jake Kline, through an early-season u-inning streak. Left to right are Gene Duffy, cf; Dick Selcer, 2b; Harold Trapp, 3b; Jim Morris, lb; Bob Senecal, If; Joe Geneser, ss; Bob Giarrantano, rf; Ed ^Vojcik, c, and Chuck Symeon, p. Symeon struck out 14 in hurling the Irish to a 15-2 victory over Ohio University April 19. 
FENCING 

ND 18 Detroit 9 ND 16 Illinois 11 ND 15 Air Force Academy.... 12 ND 23 Cincinnati 4 ND 21 Indiana 6 ND 18 Iowa 9
Irish Monopolize Season Scoreboard 
ND 14 Buffalo 13 (Won 50, Lost 7, Pet. .877) ND 85 Navy 63 ND 22 Syracuse .. 5 Won Lost ND 86 Holy Cross 53 ND 18 \Vayne State 9 Basketball 24 5 ND 102 Detroit 96 ND 23 Chicago 4 Wrestling 7 2 ND 75 DePaul 71 ND 18 Ohio State 9 Fencing 16 0 ND 94 Tennessee Tech** . 61 ND 16 Michigan State . 11 Track (dual meets only) 3 0 ND 94 Indiana** 87 ND 16 Wisconsin 11 ND 56 Kentucky** 89 ND 17 Illinois 10 
SCORES: ND 22 Indiana Tech 5BASKETBALL * Hoosier Classic in Indianapolis, Ind. ND 16 Case 11 

ND 82 St. Ambrose 63 **N.C.A.A. Tournament. Sixth in NCAA Tournament; Ron Far­
ND 75 Wisconsin 53 row, 3rd in Epee; Jim Russomano, 
ND 69 Nebraska 56 
WRESTLING ND 64 Marquette 78 4th in Foil; Dick Fagon, 14th in ND 18 Findlay Sabre. 
ND 82 Loyola 63 
ND 23 Illinois U. (Chicago) 5 
ND 72 Michigan State 79 TRACK 
ND 29 Western Michigan 3 
ND 68 Purdue* 61 
ND 20 Miami of Ohio 5 ND 59-2/3 Missouri .... .. 44-1/3 ND 89 Indiana* 74 
ND 28 ^Vayne University 0 ND 70 Purdue 34 ND 71 Northwestern 66 ND 26 Univ. of Chicago 0 ND 69 Iowa 40 ND 83 Butler 72 ND 4 AVestem Illinois 24 Michigan State Relays: Joe Foreman, ND 94 Valparaiso 69 ND 23 Marquette 3 1st 300-yard run; Tom Sanfacon, tie ND 79 DePaul 61 NTD 9 Wheaton „ 19 for 1st high jump. 
ND 83 Louisville 94 Wheaton Invitational Tourney: Notre Central Collegiate Conference Meet: 
ND 81 Illinois 67 Dame 4th; Jerry Sachsel, 3rd, 123 \Vestem Michigan, 53% ; Notre 
ND 73 Louisville ... 53 pounds;- Bob Pivonka, 3rd, 137 Dame, 52 J^; Marquette, 45 J4; 
ND 70 Bradley 81 pounds; Paul O'Connor, Srd, 177 Drake, 12; Loyola, 8; Bradley, 6^ ; ND 71 Canisius 59 pounds. Central Michigan, 1; Detroit and ND 98 Air Force Academy.— 70 Wayne State, 0. 
ND 106 Marquette 74 Intercollegiate Invitational Tourney at Knights of Columbus Rela>'s — Cleve­
ND 90 Butler 81 Case Tech, Cleveland: Jerry Sach­land: Dale Vandenberg, 2nd, 1,000­
ND 89 North Carolina 70 sel, 3rd, 117 pounds; Bronko Nagur­yd. run. 
ND 93 New York University 77 ski, 3rd, heavj-weight. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 19 
Josepli's Major Seniinaiy, Edmonton, 
Alberta, Canada. He holds a doctor­ate from tlie Anselicum in Rome. 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS 
AN EDUCATOR SPEAKS 
P.-^TTERNS FOR EDUCATIONAL GROWTH, Rev. Theodore M. Hes­burgli, C.S.C., University of Notre Dame Press, Notre Dame, $2.25. 
His views, as iJresident of tlie Uni­vereity of Notre Dame, on ditferent aspects of university education are ex­pressed in six discoiu'ses delivered by Father Hesburgii between 1952 and 1957 at the fonnal opening of the University's academic year. Each of the inaugural sermons was given in Sacred Heart Church on the campus during a Solemn High Mass tradi­tionally attended by all Notre Dame faculty members. 
The scope of Patterns for Educa­tional Growth is indicated by the titles of the Notre Dame president's dis­courses. They are "Wisdom and Edu­cation," 1952: "A Theology of History and Education," 1953: "The Mission of a Catholic University," 1954; "Edu­cation in a World of Social Challenge," 1955: "The Divine Element in Educa­
tion,"  1956:  and  "Education  in  a  
World of Science,"  1957.  
In  an  introduction  to  the  small  

volume. Father Hesburgh notes tliat the six presidential discoiu-scs "express the guiding lines of our educational endeavor at Notre Dame." Originally addressed to the University faculty, tiiey are now being made available to a wider jDublic because "oiu- University has been the recipient of so much en­lightened interest and help from such a multitude of people dining these past years," Father Hesbmgh writes. 
SCHOLARLY CONTROVERSY 
SCIENCE VERSUS PHILOSOPHY, Rev. Frederick G. Connolly, Philo­sophical Library, New York City, $3.75. 
In the volume. Father Connolly de­scribes the relationship between science and philosophy in ancient, mediaeval and modem times. The problem to­day, he wiites, is whether science is a field of knowledge distinct from phi­losophy and, if so, where lies tlie bound­from philosophy. Other groups of Thomistic philosophers "disagree heart­ily" on several aspects of the problem. Father Connolly notes. "It is indeed imfortimate that this conflict still re­mains imresolved," he says. 
Catholic intellectual life will have little impact upon the American scene as long as Catholic intellectuals can come to no agreement on the problem of modem times. Father Connolly con­tends. "This is the age of science and no school of thought that is unable to fit this modem development into the system of ideas that it presents to the world, and to do this in a clear and convincing manner, can expect much attention, let alone gain much influ­ence," he asserts. 
Father Connolly, a native of St. Johns, New Brunswick, Canada, has been a Notre Dame faculty member since 1948. From 1932 to 1948 he taught philosophy and theology at St. 
LANGUAGE OF THE CHURCH 
LITURGICAL LATIN: ITS ORI­GINS AND CHARACTER, Chris­tine Mohnnann, Catholic University of America Press. ^Vashington. D. C , $2.50. 
Dr. Mohnnann's new book presents a panoramic view of the birth, develop­ment, and eventual perfection of the liturgical language of the Western Church. Coming as it does, at a time when a renewed interest in the liturgy and in the life of the Early Church is becoming increasingly evident, this book might appeal to a reading public far beyond the circle of Latin spe­cialists. 
.-^t present Dr. Mohrmann is profes­sor of Latin at the Roman Catholic University of Nijmegen and at the University of the City of Amsterdam. In recent years she has lectured or given coiu-ses at the Universities of Cambridge, Paris, Tuiin, Munster, Strasbourg. Munich, and Bonn, as well 
ary between them. Curator Paul Byrne examines one of 394 cartoons of the late John T. McCutcheon which have been presented to the University of Notre Dame gallery by his widow, Mrs. Evelyn 
Thomistic philosopher Jacques Mari-Shaw McCutchcon, Lake Forest, Illinob. McCutchcon was cartoonist for The Chicago tain, he points out, maintains that 

Tribune for forty-five years until his death in 1949. In 1931 he received a Pulitzer Prize science is a field of knowledsre distinct as well as an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Notre Dame. 
20 Noire Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
as at Univei-sity College in Dublin and the Catholic University of Milan. 
Although this is the first of her books to be published in America, Dr. Mohr­mann is not a stranger to our shores. She has lectiucd at a number of in­stitutions of higher learning in this countiy, including Notre Dame, St. John's Abbey in Minnesota, and The Catholic University of America. This summer will find her lecturing once again at Notre Dame. 
HANDBOOK OF SECTARIANS 
SEPARATED BRETHREN, \Villiam 
J. \Vhalen, Bruce Publishing Co., Milwaukee, $4.50. 
This popular sun-ey and handbook 

;^ of the non-Catholic Christian denomi­nations was written by the university editor and assistant professor of English at Purdue University, West Lafayette, Ind. \Vhalen is a Notre Dame alumnus, having attended the 
> Univei-sity during 1943-44. Educated 
f also at Marquette and Northwestern 
' where he specialized in religious journalism, \Vhalen is currently faculty advisor to the Purdue Newman Club. He has contributed a number of articles to Catholic periodicals. 
In his new book, which bears the imprimatur of the late Bishop John 
G. Bennett of Lafayette, Whalen takes a reportorial rather than a theological approach. The volume describes the beliefs, practices and histoty of the larger and more significant of the 260 or more non-Catholic churches and sects. Included arc a bibliography, statistics on church memberehip and a graph on the genealogy- of the major denominations. 
Individual chaptei-s are devoted to the Lutherans, Presbyterians, Episco­palians, Methodists, Baptists, Quakers, Disciples of Christ, Monnons, Chris­tian Scientists, Jehovah's \Vitncsses, Unitarians, Old Catholics and Eastern Orthodox Catholics. 

i_ SPIRITUAL ODYSSEYS 
WHY I BECAME A CATHOLIC, edited by Rev. John A. O'Brien, University of Notre Dame Press, Notre Dame, 25c. 
This is an attractive pocket book in which twelve men and women tell the intimate, personal stories of their con­versions. Father O'Brien, the editor, is a research professor at Notre Dame and a leader of the convert movement in America. 
Seven of the ten men whose stories appear in the 156-page book became not only Catholics but also priests. The two women who write of their conver­sion to Catholicism eventually became nuns. Two of the converts represented in the volume withdrew from the Protestant ministiy to embrace the Catholic faith and one of these was ordained to the priesthood. 
Dr. Rudolph M. Lippert, one of the contributors to Why I Became a Catholic, tells of leaving the ministiy, embracing Catholicism, and becoming a lay leader in the annual Cnisade for Souls in the Diocese of San Diego. Arthiu- B. Klyber narrates the moving stoiy of his journey from the syna­gogue to the Redemptorist priesthood. Others whose spiritual Aeneids are described in the book include Cranor Franklin Graves, Rebecca Hirsch, Rol­lins E. Lambert, Edmund Lester, Charles W. Albright, Cora Stevens, \Villiam Lambert Brandt, Francis Joseph Fitzpatrick, Adelbert Young and William R. Rush. 
"The stories of these pilgrims," Father O'Brien writes in an introduc­tor\- chapter, "are told with reverence, humility, charity towards members of all faiths, and a sincere desire to help others. They are neither propaganda nor chapters of a sales talk. They nar­rate their stories of a spiritual Odyssey with the sole thought that their dis­closiu'es may point out to other grop­ing souls the paths that lead to Christ and His Church." 
NOVEL OF AFRICA 
FIRE IN THE BUSH, Rev. Paul Bemier, C.S.Sp., translated by Roch LePage, P. J. Kenedy & Sons, New York City, $3.00. 
This exciting fictional accoimt of a missionaiy priest's experiences in West Africa is drawn from Father Bernier's actual experiences as a Holy Ghost missionar)-. Avoiding the stereotypes of this kind of fiction, the book is notable for its acute characterization and its insights on the African mind and French colonialism. The translation by 
J. Roch LePage, Jr., '40, is in easy idiomatic, even slang)', English. Origin­ally entitled Un Missionaire, the novel was aptly retitled by its translator; the phrase "fire in the bush" is a symbolic play on words connoting both African 

Freshman Joseph M. Meany, Jr., traces the course of the "Mayflower II" across the Atlantic. The 18-year-oId youth was cabin boy and the only American abroad ship for the memorable 54-day voyage. He won the coveted shipboard assignment by being named "Boy of the Year" for 1957 by the Boys' Clubs of America. A native of Wal­tham, Mass., he is studying electrical engi­neering at Notre Dame. 
unrest and the Holy Spirit, the "burn­ing bush" of the Old Testament. 
LIFT FOR THE LAYMAN 
THE MODERN APOSTLE, Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., Fides Publish­ers Asscx:iation, Chicago, $2.95. 
This book, according to a review by James H. Manahan in Jubilee Maga­zine, "is a corrective to an overem­phasis on withdrawal and solitude. The so-called 'lay apostolate' is often badly understood both by its supporters and its opponents, and Father Putz at­tempts, with pronounced success, to set matters straight. His basic premise is that while priests have the responsi­bility for expounding doctrine, the work of spreading Christianity through the world — in an apostolic, not strictly missionarj' sense —• lies in the province of the laity. Whatever the layman can do depends mostly on his education for the job; as this improves the area of his responsibility should broaden. Tech­nically, Father Putz advises, the most effective means of action rests in small groups, organized along occupational or situational lines — students, married couples — or within separate parishes. As a sort of priming of the spirit in which laymen should approach their enlarged task. Father Putz adds to his specific instructions a number of bril­liant insights into the meaning of the Mass and of charity and a long section of meditations on the Gospek." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Afay-June, 1958 21 
Law School 
(Continued from page 6) 
MOOT COURT 
The Appellate Court of Indiana, sitting in two divisions of three judges each, heard tlie arguments in tlie semi-final round of the 1957-58 Moot Court Competition on April 28. Stu­dents who have sur\'ived the earlier rounds and participated in the argu­ments on April 28 are: Altero J. Alteri of Michigan, Dana C. Devoe of Maine, James A. Durkin of Illinois, Kosma J. Glavas of Ohio, Jerome M. Lj-nes of New Jersc)', Robert F. Mone of Oliio, Milton Munk, Jr. of Pennsylvania and Arthur J. Perr)' of Indiana. 
The final round in the competition will be held ne.xt October. Those who are judged the winners at that time will constitute Notre Dame's moot court team and will represent . tlie school in the national competition. Last year the Notre Dame team won the championship of Region 9, com­prising Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin. 
FACULTY NOTES 
"Immensely scholarly" — that is the term applied to Professor Chroust's new 
PERPETUAL REMEMBRANCE 
in the Amasses and Prayers of the Priests and Brothers of The Congregation of Holy Cross 

book Socrates, Man and Myth in a review appearing in tlie April 12 issue oi America. To quote from the review: "The Socrates of literature, says Mr. Chroust, is essentially a legend: rival schools built up rival fictions. And an examination of all tlie available facts by the conscientious author reads like some scholarly detective story." The reviewer concludes that Professor Chroust's book has made a "very im­portant contribution." 
Professor Rodes made the principal address at the closing session of the convention of the National Catholic Educational Association in Philadelphia on April 11. He is one of about 60 scholars who have been invited to par­ticipate in a five-day seminar on "Re­ligion in a Democratic Society." The Seminar will open with remarks by Father John Courtney Murray, S.J., and Reinhold Niebuhr. On the final day of the Seminar, there will be talks by three well-known theologians, namely, Abraham Joshua Heschel of the Jewish Theological Seminary, Father Gustave Weigel, S.J., of Wood­stock College, and Paul Tillich of the Harvard Divinity School. The Seminar is sponsored by The Fimd for the Republic. 
Advisory Council 
(Continued from page 7) 

the Hunter Engineering Co., Riverside, Calif., the Vanadium Corporation of America, the Armour Research Foim­dation, Chicago, and the Westinghouse Electric Corp., Pittsburgh, Pa. He is the son of tlie late Dr. E. G. Mahin who was head of the University's metal­lurgy department for many years. 
Vaughn formerly served as vice-president in charge of research and de­velopment of the Colgate-Palmolive Co. and vice-president of the AVyan­dotte Chemicals Corp., and was as­sociated in earlier years with the Mich­igan Alkali Co. and the Union Carbide and Carbon Co. He holds under­graduate and doctor's degrees from Notre Dame. As a representative of the government and the American chemical industry, he has been a mem­ber of official missions inspecting the chemical industries of Germany, Scan­dinavia and other countries. 
Powers was graduated from George­town University and the Yale Law School. He became head of the legal department of Charles Pfizer and Co. in 1941 and has held posts of increas­ing responsibiUty with the drug firm since that time. 
"A thoughtful and much appreciated 
way of remembering the departed 
soul of a relative, friend or fellow 
alumnus." 
SPIRITUAL BENEFITS HELPS BENGAL MISSIONS 
Every Day—remembrance in over 800 Masses. All membership ofFerings help Holy Cross mis-Every Sunday—High Mass for living and deceased 
sioners overseas and provide the training and be^efac^o^s at Foreign Mission Seminary, equipment for future missioners educated at the 
Washington, D. C. Foreign Mission Seminary, Washington, D. C. 
Ever/ Year—remembrance in four annual novenas. 
A beautiful framed certificate of membership (with donor's name) is promptly sent to the family of the deceased. Offering is $5 for each person enrolled. 
Mail offering vWth names and mailing instructions to: 
HOLY CROSS PURGATORIAL SOCIETY HOLY CROSS MISSIONS WASHINGTON 17, D. C. 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
CALENDAR 
Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: 
BUFFALO—First Tuesday of every month at 8:30 p.m., Hotel Sheraton, 715 Dela­ware Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is reser\'cd for lunch at K. of C , 506 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 
CENTRAL OHIO—First Monday (night) of every month. Junior Rose Room, Vir­ginia Hotel, Columbus, Ohio. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Second Wed­nesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High St., Perth Amboy, N.J. 
CHICAGO—First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12:15 p.m.. Western Society of Engineers Club, 84 E. Randolph, Chi­cago. 
DECATUR —Monthly luncheons, fourth Wednesday of every month at Greider's .Cafe, North Water Street, Decatur, III. 
DETROIT —First Wednesday of each month, luncheon, at 12:15 p.m.. Motor Bar, Sheraton Cadillac Hotel, Detroit. 
ERIE—First Friday dinner meeting with wives. Antler's Restaurant, 7:00 p.m., Sept. thru June, Erie, Pa. 
FORT lAUDERDALE—Second Thursday of each month, dinner, at 7:30 p.m.. Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
KANSAS CITY—Weekly luncheons, Thurs­days, at Famous Restaurant, Kansas City, Mo. 
MIAMI—First Thursday (night) of every month at the Urmey Hotel, 34 S.E. 2nd Ave., Downtown Miami. 
NEW JERSEY—Informal monthly lunch­eon at Kelly's Seafood Restaurant in downtown Newark, first Friday of each month. 
OKLAHOMA CITY —First Monday of each month, night, check McFarland's Drive-In Theater, Oklahoma City, Okla., for details. 
PHILADELPHIA—Second Tuesday of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club, Philadelphia, Pa. 
PITTSBURGH—Weekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Tuesday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pa., at 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER — Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12 noon. Powers Hotel, Rochester, N. Y. (If this is a holiday, meeting is held on second Monday.) 
ST. LOUIS—Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon, Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St. Louis, Mo., second Monday of each month. 
SOUTHWESTERN WISCONSIN — First Friday of every month, noon luncheon get-together at the Racine Elks Club, Racine. 
WASHINGTON —Weekly luncheon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street N.W., Washington, D. C. 
WILKES-BARRE—First Tuesday of every month, luncheon meeting, 12:15 p.m., in the main dining room. Hotel Sterling, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 

The 35th Universal Notre Dame Night may well go down in history as the greatest— certainly the greatest to date. 
Not only is this true in scope—so far as we know, more Clubs had bigger and better meetings than ever before, with few of the 169 failing in some form of observance—but in depth. 
The double-barreled theme of the Night found two major targets of interest to all alumni and to every friend in the growing family of Notre Dame. First was the extenuation of the challenging new Development Program, the stimulating and balanced proposal for faculty, student, staff, plant and research growth that will total some $66,600,000. 
And second was the slightly less tangible, but equally stimulating and interesting chal­lenge to alumni to think. The urge to continue the interest and benefits of liberal education appealed not only to Notre Dame men but to their wives, their guests, to parents and friends, from whatever college or university, or whatever plateau of education. 
Small wonder then that the usual demands for campus speakers were augmented this year by the use of local college presidents or other national figures. It was closely allied to the general theme. 
The Club reports in this, and in the next ALUMNUS, will give you the growing panorama of interest, enthusiasm, loyalty, prestige and public relations that is increasingly 
Universal Notre Dame. This annual Night 
Akron 
DR. JxVJIES W. CULLITON, Dean of the 
Xotre Dome College of Commerce, was the Uni­
versal Notre Dame Night speaker on April 14. 
A general meeting was held on February 4th at 
the Son's of Herman Club. Chairmen for up­
coming activities were named and discussion was 
held on new plans for the scholarship award. Some 
familiar (but too long absent) faces were: JIM 
COULTER, CLAUDE HORNING, JOHN MOIR, 
ED B.-\RCH and TOM AMER. 
The following meeting was held on March 4th at the home of new member MAURICE WELSH. The club was honored at this meeting with a \isit from JOHN Mac&VULEY of the Notre Dame Foundation, who very C-Tccllenlly briefed us on the functions and program of Foundation operations. Order of business included a report on progress of preparation for Universal Notre Dame Night from Chairmen BILL BURKHARDT and GEORGE DEKANY^also plans for establishing new club con­stitution and by-laws. Election of new officers was held—the following being installed on Universal Notre Dame Night: President, BOB KAPISH, "52; Vice President, DAN MOTZ, '34; Treasurer, JOHN DARAGO, '54; Secretary, GEORGE DEKANY, '49. .\mong the fine turnout it was a pleasant surprise to see: STEVE SITKO, "DOC" SOLOMAN, JOE KRAKER, JIM WALTER, BOB KOLB, HUGH COLOPY, TOM WEIGAND and BILL O'NEIL. Tlie film of 1937 football highlights rounded out the evening. 
On March 16th a club Communion Breakfast was held at the Newman Hall at Akron University. FATHER SULLIVAN offered Mass and later com­plimented the group of 45 alumni and members of their families on the fine example of Notre Dame spirit. Chairman for the afTair TOM REYltXNN introduced guest speaker Mr. Cale L. Coulter, President of the Summit County Council for the Retarded Child. More familiar but long absent faces were: TO.M BOTZUM, ED RAUB, JOHN DETTLING, JACK DOYLE, GEORGE GMITTER and TI.M R/\UH. 
—DAN MOTZ, '54, Vice-Pres. 
Atlanta 
REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University, addressed a Uni­versal Notre Dame Night gathering of the Atlanta Club on April 16. 
Aurora 
The Xotre Dame Club of Aurora held its annual Notre Dame Christmas dinner dance at the Leiand Hotel, De c 28, 1957. It was extremely successful with over 100 penons ia attendance. 

brings it dramatically into the limelight.—JEA 
Among the guests were former tackle ZIGGIE CZAROBSKI and line coach BILL FISCHER. Chairman of the affair was JACK MOVER. 
—OVIES KANE, '38, Pres. 
Black Hills 
The Notre Dame Club of the Black Hills met at the Arrowhead Country Club, Rapid City, South Dakota, on Tuesday, April 8, 1938, in order to celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night. 
After an excellent dinner and a few remarks by the officers who had recently been elected we enjoyed the Notre Dame 1957 Football Highlights film. We had approximately 45 people. 
The new officers are: BERNARD GIRA, '10, President; BOB ROMAKER, '50, Vice President, and myself, '49. 
—^VILLU.M H. CARNAHAN, Secy.-Treas. 
Baltimore 
Thirty-five members of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Baltimore attended a cocktail party and dinner on April I4th in observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. JAMES MURRAY, '41, was chairman for the affair. 
A short talk by last year's President, FRANK M. SANDERA, '34, and FATHER T. AUSTIN MURPHY, chaplain for the club preceded the showing of the Notre Dame Foundation movie. 
New officers were installed for the coming yean President, FRANCIS HERB, "37; Vice-President, CHARLES NORTON, '39; Secretary, WILLIAM RYAN, '32, and Treasurer, JIM MUTSCHELLER, '52. 
—FRANK M. SANDERA, ReUring Pres. 
Boston 

On Dec. 8, we held our annual Communion Breakfast and once again we had an excellent turnout of alumni. "Mass was celebrated by FATHER CORNELIUS DONOVAN in the Bless­ed Sacrament Chapel of the Holy Cross Cathedral and was followed by breakfast at the Red Coach Grill in Boston. Chairman of this alTair \vas JOHN HICKEY, '44, who had his father, THOMAS HICKEY, '02, come from South Bend to be the suest speaker. Mr. Hickcy was God-father of KNUTE ROCKNE and his constant traveling com­panion. His subject was "Rock—as a neighbor and leader of men." All those present were treated to many humorous and in:imatc stories of Mr. Hickcy's personal association Vi*ith Knute Rockne. 
On Dec. 27, the Undergraduate Club of New England held their annual Christmas dance at the University Qub in Boston, and tbey alw had in excellent turnout for this event. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June, 1958 
DOUG ROBERTSON, '52, has done an ex­

cellent job as publicity chairman of our film, 
*'Xotrc Dame." in cooperation with many of our 
alumni, this film has been shown to over 30 schools 
in and around Boston and has been enthusiastically 
received by all those who have seen it. JOE 
GARGAX, '52, succeeded in haWng it showTi on 
television, Marcli 22. Our next objective will be 
to ofTer it to any local clubs such as the K. of C , 
Holy Name, Rotarj*, etc. Any alumni who w*ouId 
like to obtain this film for his club or any school 
can do so by contacting Doug Robertson. 
Wc aie pleased to announce that JOE CL/\KCY, 

'50, was recently made District Sales Director for 
the General Foods Corporation. 
We regret to announce that DICK KIRK, *49, has 

contracted tuberculosis and is now at the Norfolk 
County Hospital in South Braintrce, Mass. Dick 
has always been a vrr>' staunch alumn! supporter and 
we ask all of you to pray for his speedy recover>'. 
He would certainly welcome cards or letters from 
his many friends who can write to him at the 
above address. 
WALTER H. JOHNSON, '39, vice-president of 

American Airlines, was the speaker at the Execu­
tive Lunchcoii of the New England Sales' Manage­
ment conference held on Jan. 10. 
\Vc were pleased to have BILL \\'ALSH with us for a few da>-s recently. Bill has ofTcrcd several suggestions in regard to organizing a scholarship program for promising high school athletes in our area. 
Our annual Retreat was held at St. Gabriel's Passionist Monaster>' in Brighton the week end of February 21. FATHER LUCL\N DUCIE was the Retreat Director and for all those that attended, it was a wonderful rest physically and an opportunity to reflect, read and pray for spiritual guidance. 1 v^-as chairman of this affair 
On March 18, we held our annual business and election meeting at th- University Club in Boston. The meeting was started with CHUCK PATTER­SOX, '47, showing a color movie on the Milwaukee Braves team of last year. Last year's events were briefly reported and then the Treasurer, BILL . DACEY, '49, presented the annual Treasurer's re­port wlilch was indeed encouraging. Our Scholar­ship Fund has grown from $450 to over $1900 in one year due to the drive put on in the fall of 
last year. 
An up to date director)' will be published again 

in the Fall, and anyone wishing to advertise in this 
director)- can contact CHUCK PO^VERS, '45, or 
m^-self. Information on this will be forthcoming. 
The Constitution has been amended in several 

places due to moUons for amendments made by 
JOHN KARLE, '56, NEIL FOWLER, *47 and 
CHUCK POWERS. 
BILL DACEY spoke briefly in regard to the establishment of a system and procedure for any high school gradual* who appears to be excellent college material and wishes to go to Notre Dame on a possible scholarship. Bill has been instru­mental in obtaining scholarships from the University' for three local bo)*::, and the need of an established s>'stem was realized at that time. 
The Nominating Committee: JACK SAUNDERS, '31, LOU DI GIOVANNI, '49, and DICK HER­LIHY, '48—presented a full slate of candidates for the new term. Nominations were also made from the floor for cvcr\' office and the results of this election are as follo%\3: President—DICK HYLAND, '50; Vice. Prcs.—CHUCK POWERS, '45; Sccrc-lary—NEIL FO\\TER, '47; Treasurer—BILL DACEY, '49; Directors for 3 vears—JOE GARGAN, '52, and BILL McCORMICK, '47. 
BILL DACEY was chairman of Universal Notre Dame Night which was held at the Commonwealth Country Club on April 14. "MOOSE" KRAUSE was the speaker from the University, and Philip 
J. Driscoll, director of iidroissison for Brandeis University, u-as a guest speaker. LOU DiGIOVANNI's wife gave birth to a baby 
boy in Februar\'. —DICK HYLAND, Pres. 
BufFalo 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo met at the Hotel Sheraton, Delaware Ave., Buffalo. 
N. Y., for the regular monthly meeting February" 4, 1958. The following members were elected to a three-year term on the Board of Governors: HENRY BALLING, JR., '52; JOHN F. ENDERS, JR., '53; JOHN FOGARTY, '43; DONALD G. JACOBI, '35. 
During a recess at this same meeting the entire Board of Governors met and elected the follou'ing officers ior the coming year: President, JOHN A. LaVIGNE, '49; \^cc President; ANTHONY C. ROCCO, '48; Treasurer, JOHN F. ENDERS, JR., '53; Financial Secretary, HENRY J. BALLING, JR., '52; Corresponding Secretary, DONALD G JACOBI, '35. 
The new President, JOHN A. LaVIGNE, outlined the program for the coming year, after accepting the Treasurers report that the Club was currently in a very liquid financial condition. 
MAURICE F. QUINN, '38, Cb^-rman of the week-end retreat at St. Columban Retreat House March 22, 23, 24, Derby, N. Y., reported Uie club had thirty-five Notre Dame men in attend­ance at the retreat. 
ANTHONY W. BRICK, JR., '30, reported on Club standing tvith reference to the Foundation. At present 120 members of the Buffalo Club are contributing to the Foundation. Tony outlined the ten-year plan that the Foundation is currently undertaking. A committee is being formed to contact'the balance of the membership to enlist their cooperation. 
JOSEPH F. RYAN, '38, will again head the Committee to continue the Parochial School Football League with Notre Dame Trophy being awarded to the winner. George Ferrick reported that the Club in conjunctiou with the Notre Dame Alum-drives u*as sponsoring a couples. Bowling and Supper Party, May 17, 1958. This is usually a sell-out and a tremendous '.ocial evening. JOHN F. ENDERS, JR., reported on his Theatre Party, "Eighty Days /Vround the World" and turned in a sizeable check to be used for the local Notre Dame Scholarship Fund. 
HENRY BALLING, JR., '52. was chairman of Universal Notre Dame Night, .April 21. Our guest speakers of the evening were REV. JEROME J. AHLSON, C.S.C., from the University and Con­gressman WILLIAM E. MILLER, Notre Dame Class of '36. The Club hosted the dinner at the Lafayette Hotel, cocktails of course. 
—DONALD G. JACOBI, Secy. 

Canada 
The Not'c Dame Club of Canada held its Uni­versal Noire Dame Night celebration on April 15 in Montreal, Quebec. Present from the University was ALEX WILSON, Notre Dame track coach. 
Calumet 
Following an enjoyable Christmas dinner dance, the Calumet Region club held its annual sports stag dinner, February 5 at the Hotel Gary in Gary, Ind. TERRY BRENN^VN was guest speaker, bring­ing backficid coach HENRY STRtVM and 1958 co­captaJn CHUCK PUNTILLO, and the event was one of the most successful in club history, attended by 190 alumni and friends. The last time Terry Brennan spoke to the club was at the sports stag several years ago just prior to his appointment as head football coach. 
The Christmas dance was held at the Lansing Sportsmen's Club m Lansing, 111., under the chair­manship of Vice President BILL O'CONNOR. Committee members included President TOM CLIF­FORD, Treasurer; AUSTIN BOYLE, Secretary; CHARLES COHN and Directors JAMES R. MOR­RISON, ERNIE HOFF.MAN and JACK OGREN. 
A talk by REV. ARTHUR HOPE, C.S.C., and award of "man of the year" honors to JOHN B. RADIGAN of Gary, highlighted the Universal Notre Dam: Night celebration of the Notre Dame Club nf the Calumet Region. A dinner meeting was 
NOTRE 0*^^^ 1957 
BUWAlA)—Winner's circle after the running of the Notre Dame Pace at Buffalo Raceway last year. Left to right: John Dunnigan, '57, representing Buffalo Trotting Assn., Inc.; winning horse and driver; Donald G. Jacobi, '35, Buffalo Club secretary; Frank J. Gaglione, re­tiring president, and the owner of the winning horse. Track is owned and operated by James J. Dunnigan, '34, a member of the Notre 
Dame Club of Buffalo. 

24 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
held April 7 at Phil Smidt's restaurant in Whiting, 
Ind. 
Father Hops, author of "Notre Dame—100 
Years," gave an intcrssting account of the univer­
sity's hlstoo' and development. 
THOMAS H. CLIFFORD of Gar>% outgoing 
club president, presented the Man of the Year 
scroll to Mr. Radigan, pioneer furniture dealer 
of Gary and benefactor of many Catholic causes. 
New ofliccrs of the Calumet Club for the coming 
two years were installed. They arc: AVILLIAM 
O'CONNOR of Hammond, president; AUSTIN 
BOYLE of Whiting. Wcc president; DAVE OGREN 
of Hammond, treasurer, and BENEDICT DANKO 
of Whiting, secretary-. Directors are Clifford, 
Edward Burke and Charles Cohn, alt of Gar>-. 
—AUSTIN BOYLE, Vicc-Pres. 
Canton 
Thirty members of the Canton (Ohio) Club of Notre Dame received Holy Communion together December 8 at St. John's Catholic Church in Canton. After Mass the group moved to the school cafeteria at the church for breakfast. Club chap-Iain, REV. REGIS McCOY, a Notre Dame alumnus and pastor of St. Benedict's Church in Canton was the speaker. TIic movie "Notre Dame" was shown and newly elected officers were introduced. JAMES 
F. WEBER, '57, is the new president. ROBERT 
A. RICHARD, '56, is vice-president and ED MACHUGA, '55, is the sccretar\'-trcasurer. On December 27 the "Holiday Ball" Christmas dance, sponsored by the alumni was held at the Onesto Hotel u*ith a very good turnout. The club spon­sored a seasonal Communion breakfast Feb. 23. 
—JAMIE WEBER. 
Cedar Rapids 
DR. LAWRENCE H. BALDINGER, Dean of the College of Science at Noire Dame, was guest speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Night obser\-­ance of the Notre Dame Club of Cedar Rapids, loxva, April 12. 
Central New York 
EDWARD W. KR.\USE represented tlic Uni­versity at a Universal Notre Dame Niglit meeting of the Central New York Club April 12 in Syracuse. 
Central West Virginia 
The General West Virginia Club held a dimier in honor of DR. THOMAS DOOLEY in Januar>­at the Stonewall Jackson Hotel, Clarksburg, W. Va. 
Members present were: JOHN JULIAN, presi­dent; DR. MARCUS FARREI.L, a director of the club; FR/\NK WELCH, C. E. AUCREM/\NNE, JEROME MALFREGEOT and J. F. AUCRE­M.-\NNE. Special guests were: Msgr. J. J. O'Brien, Rev. Andrew Heaney, and Rev. John McDonald. 
C. E. Aucrcmaniie was program cliairman. 
Dr. Doolcy told of Iiis experiences in Laos and outlined future plms. 
Chicago 
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago now lias its own suite of offices in the First National Bank Building, 38 Soutli Dearborn Street, Room 1337. All Notre Dame men, and particularly those mem­bers of the Chicago Notre Dame Club arc cordi­ally invited- to drop in any time. The club office belongs to all of us, and wc can all be very proud of it. 
H. GILBERT SE/\MAN was appointed by the club Board of Governors to be Chairman of the Nominating Committee which passed on nomina­tions for the 1958 club officers and board members. Tlic Board of Governors also appointed LUKE J. TIERNAN, Chairman of tlie Notre Dame Man of the Year Selections Awards Committee. 
Tlie monthly luncheon meeting February 3rd pre­sented filmed highlights of 1957 Notre Dame foot­ball, and was an outstanding success. The Marcli meeting was equally interesting \vith Ray Meyers, Dc Paul Basketball Coach, as principal speaker. 
BOB LEx\NDER, RAY DURST and the Freshman Applicant Intcr\'iewing Committee have been doing an excellent job in inter\'icu-ing all the applicants for the 1958 Freshman Class from the Cfiicago area. They have already inter\-icwcd over 200 applicants, and the job is still continuing. Also very active 

AURORA—Among those present at the Aurora Club's holiday dinner dance were Ziggy Czarobskif N.D. line coach BUI Fischer, dance chairman Jack Moyer, Club President Owen Kane, and Bob Kcams. 
havo been JI.M FERSTEL, new chairman JERRY FRtVZEL and the Prep School Committee in "telling the N.D. stor>-." The Board of Governors has de­cided to set up a KNUTE ROCKNE Award for the football player in the Catholic League of Chicago who demonstrates the most outstanding qualities of sportsmanship, leadership, athletic ability, and scholarship as exemplified by Rocknc himself. Also under attack is the problem of local job placement for seniors and alumni. Suggestions are urgently solicited. 
Our print of the 30-minutc color film **Notre Dame" is still a\'ailable to all in the area who would like to show it. 
PRIAL CURRfVN, and BILL WHITE are to be congratulated on the lirgest crowd in recent years at the Communion Breakfast, December 1, which they so ably organized. Father John Cax'anaugh spoke on "The Challenge to Catholic Education to Produce National Leaders." Other guests were: FATHER MATTHEW WALSH, FATHER "RED" BRENNAN, and FATHER L.\WRENCE BROESTL. 
Local alumni turned out in large numbers for Father Walsh's Jubilee celebration at St. Thomas .Aquinas Parish on December 29. This was his liftieth anniversary in the priesthood. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated Monday, April 21, at the Lake Shore Club Ballroom. The theme was "Noire Dame Sportsdom," \vith D.\VE CONDON, Chicago Daily Tribune sports columnist, as toastmaster and FATHER NED JOYCE, C.S.C., Notre Dame vice president and athletics chairman, representing the University. ROBERT K. WILMOUTH was general chairman. 
jXmcrican Legion National Commander JOHN S. GLE/\SON, JR., received a plaque naming him Chi­cago's Notre Dame Man of the Year. 

The following officers were installed: President, JOHN F. MORLEY, '35; First Vice President, PHILIP J. FACCENDA, '51; Second Vice President, GEORGE ^^ MENARD, '32; Secretar>-, KENNETH 
G. ENRIGHT, M8; Treasurer, JAMES T. DOYLE, '31; Honorary President, HON. NORMAN C. BARRY, '21; Board of Governors (3 years), NOR­M.\N J. BARRY, '43, M. PRIAL CURR/\N, '37, BERNARD E. GOTTA, M5, VERNE F. KELLEY, '50, .\NTHONY J. MA2ZIOTTI, JR., '36, JOHN 
J. .MULDOON, '51, and FRANK J. O'LAUGH­LIN, '38. 
—KENNETH G. ENRIGHT, JR., Seo*. 
Cincinnati 

The Club Christmas Scholarship Ball held an­nually at the Netherland Hilton was a fine success. STEVE HEEKIN was general chairman, and ably assisted by BOB LEONARD and JOHN FE.AD. Tlic Ciub gave a mink stole as a door prize. 
The winner of the stole was Mrs. Patricia Long. The Club will au'ard a four-year scholarship in the sum of $900.00 per year starting next September. Applications from the high school seniors of the Greater Cincinnati area are now being accepted. The Scholarship Committee will make the award in June. The Februar>' meeting was held at the Hudepohl Rathskellar. A member of the Club, Councilman JOHN GILLIGAN, introduced Mr. Charles Stamm. Director of Urban Renewal for the City of Cincin­nati, who gave an inirresling report on the city's program. 
On Thursday, April 10, the Club, in co-operation with the Fenwick Club, sponsored a smoker. Coach TERRY BRENNAN spoke and showed moWes of the Army Game. WALTER NIENABER is chair­man. 
On Sunday, March 16, the club members and their families joined \nth the Memorial Committee of the Friends of Ireland for Mass and Communion at the recently rededicated St. Peter in Chains Cathedral. Following the Mass, which was at­tended by over 1700 people, a program was held in the Undercroft. Our own .\L CASTELLINI was master of ceremonies. Speakers included JIM CROWLEY of the "Four Horsemen," WALTER O'KEEFE of radio-TV fame and our own club President, RAY GUD.MENS. 
At the Afarch meeting, held at the Fenwick Club, President Gudmens appointed BOB McaAFFERTY and JOHN BRODBERGER chairmen of the nomin­ating committees and BOB BURKE chairman of tlie Man of the Year .A.ward Committee. 
—JOHN McCORMICK, Secy. 

Cieveiond 
The annual Cleveland N.D. retreat was held the first week end of Lent, with about 50 members in attendance, £t St. Stanislaus. JOHN MENDEN­HALL was chairman of this spiritual acti\it>'. The Rocknc Memorial Communion Breakfast will be held at the Statler Hotel, after Mass at St. John's Cathedral on April 20th. REV. FRANTv GART­LAND, C.S.C., editor of the Catholic Bov and HARRY STUHLDREHER spoke. 
FATHER RICHARD D. MURPHY, C.S.C., Director of Admissions \isited several club members to explain the new lutcrviewlng process of ap­plicants to N.D. by local alumni members. Leo Burby Is in charge of the Cleveland members who arc conducting these interviews of September 1958 applicants. 
We are proud of club members who are seeking public office in forthcominf eirctlons: RAY T. MILLER, Jr., State senator, RON MOTTL, state 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May^June, 2958 25 
representative, and DON C. MILLER, county commlssicncr. —TOM McHALE, Secy. 
Dallas 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held April 9 at the beautiful new* Dallas Country Club. We had the place filled to capacity with about 205 people. HAL TEHAN, who has done a great job as presi­dent, was master of ceremonies. TERRY BREN­NAN was oar guest speaker, and our committee ^vas composed of LANK SMITH, JOE NEUHOFF and 

. EMMETT O'NEIL. The new slate of officers was announced: Presi­
• dent, LANK SMITH; Finit \^cc-Prcsidcnt, FRANK FINN; Second Vice-President, DAVE COWDIN; Sccretar>-, JOE NEUHOFF, and Treasurer, EDWARD HARGAN. 
The "Man of the Year" presentation was made by last year's winner, ARTHUR HUGHES, and JOE HAGGAR was the redpient of the award for this year. We had JUDGE NORMAN BARRY of Chicago as an out-of-town guest; REV. J. M. RICK, CS.a , and BROTHER HIL.4RION BRE21K, CS-C, from Boys Ranch, Bedford, Texas. 
Our next Club activity was the Nine-Day Novcna beginning May II, which was held on the grounds of Jesuit High School. JOHN D.\R­ROUZET and JAKE REICHENSTEIN were co-chairmen of this event. We assembled a replica of the Grotto at Notre Dame, and all of the Parishes in the dty of Dallas as well as the Notre Dame Club members were cordially invited to attend. One of our new Club members is EDWARD BOYLE, *38, who is head of the local F.B.I. Office, transferred here frcm El Paso. TTie new club roster \v"as pre­pared by HENRY NEUHOFF, and mailed to all members who now total 141. 
We had a splendid turnout for the Fall Com­, munion Breakfast on October 27 held at the Lakc­; wood Countr\- Club. FRANK FINN was in charge I and had for our guest speaker Mr. DALE FRANCIS 
\' who is currently associated with St. Edivard's Uni­versity and editor of the Lone Star Catholic 
i' There was a large turnout at the airport to meet the team on the afternoon of December 4'Ai. FATHER HESBURGH was met Wednesday night at Love Field by Club President HAL TEHAN, and JIM FRICK of the Foundation. A score of re­porters were there to inter\"icw Father Hesburgh on the subject of education which vf^s carried on the front page of the local papers. Friday night. December 6tfa, at the Cipango Club, ED HAGG.AR wus host for a nice dinner in honor of Father Hesburgh. 
JOE HAGGAR ^^•as the chairman of the SMU­

N.D. Rally held at the Statler-Hilton. We had a capacity crowd and ihe profit will be used for the club's Scholarship Fund. LANK SMITH was toast­master and introduced Club President HAL TEHAN, Coaches, TERRY BRENNAN and Bill Meek, Ath­letic Directors, Matty Bell and MOOSE KRAUSE, President Tate and Father Hesburgh. 
Sunday morning, we had a brunch at the Dallas Club for club members, alumni, university officials and members of the team. DA\T CO^\T>IN assisted by JOE NEUHOFF did a very fine job. Three hundred people attended this function which IS the largest in the club*s history. 
Jesuit High School hid Catholic College Day on December 11 at ^vlilch time approximately twenty* students interested in attending Notre Dame were interviewed by Hal Tehan. These attended our Communion Breakfast March 9, a very successful affair. Guest speaker W2s REV. JAMES E. NOR­TON, C.S.C. 
The Christmas Dance was held December 27ih at the Glen Lakes Country* Club. We had a better than average turnout and the affair was ablv handled by LEE SHIPP. Tlie club also backed a St. Patrick's dance of the .Ancient Order of Hiber­nians March 15. 
—HENRY NEUHOFF, IH, Secr>-. 

Dayton 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Dayton observed Universal Notre Dan:e Night on April 15 %vith a Dinner at the Gibbons Hotel. A Guest Speaker, 
F. X. "TIM" BRADLEY, Assistant Dean of the Grad School and Actinj Director ot LOBUND, came from the University for the occasion. Election of, Oificers for the coming year will be announced. 
BILL HOYNE recently served as Chairman of the Dayton Polio Drive. A Square Dance u-as held at Miami Valley 
26 Notre Dame Alumnvs, May-June, 1958 
BOSTON—^The head table at the annual Communion Breakfast had, from left to right. Club President Bill O'Brien, '44; Mr. Thomas Hickey, '02, guest speaker from South Bend; Father Cornelius Donovan, and John Hickey, '44. 
Country Club by the Women's .Auxiliarx- on Feb­
ruary 18. Following viie Dance, a Buffet Supper 
was ser\ed. The affair was under the direction 
of the new Co-Chairman for the Women's Auxiliar>% 
Mrs. JOHN POWERS and Mrs. FRANK Mc-
BRIDE, Jr. 
—TOM LANDGREN, Sec^.-. 

Dearborn 
January 11 found a large gathering of Dearborn Club members at the Westwood Inn attending the .Annual Dinner Daiice. The filet mignon was « ­cdlcnt. TONI TUCKER, '49, and JERRY SARB, '48, and their wives diti an outstanding job of organization. Some of those present were Ruth and GERRY GASS, '48; Ann and PETER KER­NAN, '49; Pat and TOM NELSON, '52; Dr. and Mrs. JOHN FISCHER, '50; Marie and JOHN W. COURTNEY, '25; the DICK KINGS, '37; Gerry and GEORGE TOBIN, '48; the JOE BYRNES, '52; the LARRY DOLANS, '47; Pat and ED SNYDER, '49; Pat and JOHN E. COURTNEY, '50; the JERRY WAYNOS, '47, and the JOHN FISHES, '52. 
A large portion of the e-xpcnse of this dance is undenvTJtten by the Club; it's the club's method of thanking its members for their work and lo\-alty throughout the year. 
Last November the Club sponsored a bus trip to the Notre Dame-Michigan State game. In spite of the score, four buses of members and their iriends enjoyed the outing. JIM KING, '50, JOE BYRNE , '52, JOHN SCHAEFER, '48, and GEORGE BALL, '49, made up the committee hand­ling all the arrangements. 
GEORGE TOBIN, '48, was chairman of the Stag Dinner on March 13, attended by BILL EARLEY from the University. LARRY DOLAN, '47, handled arrangements for our Day of Recollection March 8 at Duns Scotus College. Our elections came in April, and our new officers, installed in May at the annual Communion Breakfast, are: President, JOHN 
E. COURTNEY, '50; Vice-President, DA\1D L. DOLAN, '47, and Secrctarv-Treasurer, JAMES A. KING, '50. 
—JOHN E. COURTNEY, Pres. 

Decatur 
On the fourth Wednesday of everj* month for a period of a year the local Alumni gathered at Jack and DAVE GREIDER'S '35, Cafeteria for an excel­lent luncli (plug) and increasing comraderie. Since none of these gatherings resulted in a lake party, we launched into more sociable endeavors. These included Universal Notre Dame Night, a goU outing, and a fall dinner party at which the mem­bership formally elected ofHcers. It was a dandy! 
The right man, time and place had much to do with electing BERNARD A. MARTY, *37. President. Since graduation, he has been associated with Irwin-Xeislcr Company, a manufacturer of pharmaceuti­cals. During the Company's extensive post-war expansion period, Bernard has organized evcr>- new department and energetically applied these same talents in shapint; our program. 
ROBERT R. XJHL, '49, and law '50, of the legal firm of Redmon, Smith & Hull and a past President of the Decatur Jr. Assn. of Commerce was elected Vice President. He had expeditiously organized our constitution and proceedings. 
GEORGE H. HUBBARD, '54, teamed with his classmate in keeping the (ire ablaze and seeing that our actintics were equitably financed. He is our Club Treasurer and propitiously is in the Treas­urers' ofHce of the Illinois Power Company. 
Continued correspondence, both with Notre Dame and local Alumni, u'as carried out by MILTON J. BEAUDINE, *54. Our new Secretary' is a chemical engineer with A. E. Stalcy Manufacturing Co. It may appear that good \\'ork is rewarded by more work, could be. But perhaps the fall-out of his correspondence may engender other individuals or clubs. Also, his class should become aware of his secretarial follow-through come class elections, 1959. 
FATHER A. D. LeBRETON, '42, was elected Chaplain. 
BERNARD B. LIVERGOOD, '24; SY RAPIER, '34; and A. C. MORAN, JR., were elected directors. 
All this was properly brought before the mem­bership by JOHN FOY, '34, Chairman of the nominations committee, consisting of himself and ALLAN LANDOLT '50. It was such a classic nominating speech that the swJsh of the train was hardly audible. 
When Sy Rapier humorously commented on the political ethics of Foy's engineering. Rapier was promptly named Chairman of our Communion Breakfast, December 14, 1957. 
Bernard Marty and Bob Uhl are Co-Chairmcn of the annual fall dinner party, October 15, 1958. 
BERNARD LIVERGOOD resourcefully provided last summer's golf outing and accepted to repeat June 25, 1958. 
It's difficult to belic\'e that a man uho spends less than ten seconds a day on his hair can rale such an attractive fiancee but somehow Bcaudtnc does. lle^s getting married June 14ih, he was Chairman of Universal Notre Dame night. May 7, 1958! 
—STEPHEN G. GR^\LIKER, C. L. U., '42. 

Decatur celebrated the *'Wcarin' of the Green" on Monday night, March 17, with a parly and dance 
a: the Decatur Club. BUZZ MORAN was chairman of the event and did a wonderful job. About 11:30 
p.m. Buzz brought out the corned beef on r>'e to go with the beer that had been and continued to be consumed. Everyone had a wonderful time, .and our green derbies arc ofT to Buzz. 
Wc celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on ^Vcd^esday, May 7, with a dinner party at the Blue Mni. Speeches weie capped by a showing of the color film "Notre Dame." This was our first annual UND Night celebration and from the support 
it received these affairs will continue for a long time to come. ALLAN LANDOLT has been appointed loan olhcer of the Northtown Bank, Decatur. 
BERNIE LIVERGOOD Is cooking up plans for a golf outing In June, while our one-man member­ship committee JIM UHL is busy bringing new members into tlic fold. Fruit of his efforts so far arc: CHARLES NELSON, ED KEENAN, GEORGE JOHNSON, LEO V. GREEN and JLM MONTE­DONICO. 
We are having trouble trying to keep up on the whereabouts of our esteemed president BERNIE MARTY, who is flitting about the country at­tending sales meetings. I myself was fortunate to get away from it all for a few weeks at the expense of the U. S. Xa\y for a two-week training cruise in San Diego. 
We are £till holding our monthly luncheons on the fourth Wednesday of each month at Greidcrs Cafe. And we arc still looking for our first out-of-town visiting alumni. 
—MILT BEAUDINE, Secy. 
Denver 
FRiVNK LEfVHY was scltcdulcd as guest speaker 
a: the Denver Club celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night on April 7. 
Des Moines 
On December 8lh, the feast of the Immaculate Conception, the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Des Moines held its annual communion breakfast. About twenty-five members of the club were present for the Mass &t St. Ambrose Cathedral in down­town Des Moines, and the breakfast which followed at the Hotel Fort Des Moines. 
On December 27th our club held its annual blue and gold ball at the Savory- Hotel in Des Moines. Approximately three hundred fifty alumni and fricndi of the University attended. As always this w:is the social highlight of the club year. 
Prospects for the forth coming year appear very favorable. As always the club is endeavoring to increase the warm and enthusiastic feeling for the University which exists here in Des Moines. 
—TOM NOL.\N, Secy.-Trcas. 
Duluth 
About 40 alumni and friends of Notre Dame gathered in April to pay tribute to the University on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Eastern Kansas 
.\t a Universal Noire Dame Night celebration in Topeka, Kansas, April 7, an unrestricted check for S415 was presented to the Notre Dame Foundation by tlie Notre Dame Club of Eastern Kansas. About 25 were present for the meeting including wives and friends. REV. RICHARD J. GRIMM represented the University and gave a talk on the future of Notre Dame. The latest campus movies were also shown. Father Grimm was Introduced by Club President, T. HENRY DEVLIN. Chairman was JOHN PARRY. 
El Paso 
Nationa l Alumni President F. L. "MIKE" LiVYDEN was a guest of the EI Paso Club for Universal Notre Dame Night on April 29. 
Evansvllle 
On Sunday, December 8, a communion breakfast was held for Notre Dame men and members of their families at the Evansvllle Country Club. Featured at the breakfast was the new Notre Dame Campus Film which drew high praise from all. 
Saturday, January 11, \vas the date of the annual Notre Dame Christmas party for the area alumni and their guests. The party this year was at­tended by 63 couples who were treated to a cock­tail hour, under the supervision of ED KE\fPF and FRED DEAVES, followed by a smorgasbord and dancing to some real lively music. 
REV. ALFRED F. MENDEZ, C.S.C., represented the University at Evansvillc's Universal Notre Dame Night April 14. 
—R. EUGENE JOHNSON, Secy.-Trcas 
Fairfield County 
A reception in honor of the Holy Cross Fathers of the newly dedicated Notre Dame High School 

BLACK HILLS—Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by the Black Hills Club at the Arrowhead Countrj- Club, Rapid City, S. D., April 8. At the head table, left to right, seated, are Bernard Gira, president-elect, Custer, S. D.; Very Rev. Michael Thompson, St. Ambrose Church, Deadwood; Msgr. Weiael Sobole\¥ski, St. Joseph Church, Spearfish, Club chaplain; and, standing, William H. Camahan, Deadwood, secretary-treasurer. 
of Bridgeport was Held on January 9, 1938, at the Catholic Commtmity Center in Bridgeport. A bufTet dinner followed by the Notre Dame movie bigh­lighted the evening. 
Among the [acuity present were: REV. GEORGE 

S. DcFRIZIO, C.S.C., Provincial of the Eastern Province. REV. THOMAS E, LA^VTON, C.S.C., Principal, '48; Rev. JOSEPH F. \VISE»fAN, C.S.C., Rev. ED.MUND J. HAUGHEY, C.S.C., 'SI; Rev. THOMAS C. SULUVAN, C.S.C, '51; Rev. DONALD W. ^VHIPPLE, CAC , "53; Rev. JOHN 
L. YARDAN, C.S.C.; Rev. FRANCIS M. WALSH, C.S.C.; Rev. JAMES F. BOYLE, C.S.C.; Rev. JAMES G. BURBANK, C.S.C.; Rev. ROBERT E. MCDONNELL, CS.C ; Rev. ALFRED F. D'ALON­ZO, CS.C, '49; Rev. CHARLES C .MATUSK, CS.C, '50; Rev. CLAIR S. LAMBOUR, CS.C, '51; Rev. CLE.MENT J. PODSKOCH, CS.C ; Rev. DOUGLAS W, HAWKINS, CS.C ; Rev. JA.MES J. GILDEA, CS.C ; Rev. PATRICK R. COLLINS, CS.C; Rev. THO.MAS M. CONMY, CS.C; Rev. MORTIMER A. FERRICK, CS.C; Brother SERGIUS ROGAN, CS.C ; Brother PETER SCARPIGNATO, C3.C ; Brother JEROME -MATHEWS, CS.C ; Brother HERMAN ZACCAR­ELLI, CS.C ; Brother MICHAEL DELANEY, CS.C; Brother JA.MES .\UDIGAN. 
Club members present were: NICHOLAS A. LANESE, RICHARD J. SCANNELL, WILLLVM 
F. GRIFFIN, JOHN M. MURPHY, STEPHEN CALIENTO, JOHN C REDGATE, CLIFFORD 
P. TALLMAN, JOHN T. FFTZPATRICK, DR. THOMAS J. TARASOVIC, DR. MICHAEL SCUL­LY, HARRY L. NORRIS, ROBERT BRENNAN, WILLIA.M F. MULRENAN, ROBERT K. GRIF­FIN, Vice-President: THOMAS F. MURPHY, ROBERT A. TE^VKSBURY, FRANCIS S. McGEE, JOSEPH E. RUSSO. JOSEPH A. CALLAHAN, JOHN .MOLLOY, DR. VINCE.'^T A. GORMAN, FRANCIS J. ROONEY, E.MIL V. GAROFALO, JOHN J. SLATTERY, EMIL LADYKO, JOHN H. D^VYER, Secrctary-Treas.; ^VILLIAM B. MUR­RAY, FRANCIS J. KOWALSKI, President. 
The following men liave been elected for ofEce for this year at our meeting of March 13: President, ROBERT K. GRIFFIN, 43; Vice-President, ROBERT A. TE^^'KSBURY, '47; Secretary, 
•WILLIAM F. GRIFFIN, '48, and Treasurer, JOHN H. D»VYER, '55. 
—FR,\NC1S J. KOWALSKI, Past Pres. 
Flint 
REV, JOHN J. CAV.\NAUGH, C5.C., Director of the Notre Dame Foundation, represented the University at tlie Universal Notre Dame Ntght meeting of the Flint Club on April 8. 
Fort Lauderdale 

The new ofHcers of the Notre Dame Club of Fort Laudcrdals Include: FRANK McDONOUGH, FRANK McGINN, and JOHN McGINN, all in the real estate business in nearby Pompano Beach; and Tom irurray, teaching at Rogers Jr. High at the Naval Air Station. 
Elected to the board of directors were: CHARLIE BACHALVN and BILL McALPIN. 
At the January meeting a large group heard FATHER CUNNINGHAM, CS.C , Director of the Faculty at the University, tell of the new curric\ila and latest developments at school. FATHER EDIVARD KELLER, CS.C , Director of the Economic Institute at Notre Dame, also spoke. 
The Club recently started a blood bank for members and their families, and DICK FEDDERS, swimming coach at Fort liaudcrdale High, became the first to have his membership card stamped "paid in blood." 
At the February meeting members and their guests heard FATHER TO.\I O'DONNELL from the University, and JIM FRICK, Foundation Area Director for the Southeastern United States. They had films to show from the University to keep us abreast of our Alma Tllater. 
The Notre Dame Florida Convention, which is becoming a southeastern states convention, ^vas held here this year on April I8th, 19th, and 20th. Convention-goers arc z^reed that the Sea Ranch . Hotel and Cabana Club is the ultimate in Gold Coast vacationing, so there tv'as no change of locale. The big convention news was the speaker: FATHER EDMUND JOYCE, CS.C , executive \"ice-president of the University. 
—TOM MURRAY, Secy. 

Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June, 1958 27 
Fort Wayne 
On Sunday, December 8, 1957, the Notre Dame 
club of Fort Wai-ne held its annual Communion 
Breakfast. The Mass was at the Cathedral of the 
Immaculi^te Conception and the breakfast was at 
the Kccnan hotel. FATHER WILLIAM LESTER, 
club cbapl^n, was the speaker. ChMrman for this 
event was HENRY HASLEY, *28. Co-chainnan 
was JAMES BATES, '51. 
Another December event for the local club was 
its co-sponsorship of a Christmas dance (December 
27) with the campus Notre Dame Club. The annual dance was held at the American Legion Post Xo. 47. Chairman for this event was JEROME J. O'DOWD, M2. His committee in­cluded JACK SCHENKEL, ED GEORGE, and RALPH BLUME. 

On Januar>- 10, 1958 the Fort Wayne alumni had the opportunity to sec the current Notre Damt basketball team pl^y Valparaiso University as the feature of a higli school and college doubleheader program. It was a double victory- for the Irish. Our local Central Catholic Irish defeated Con­cordia Lutheran High School and the Notre Dame Irish easily defeated Valparaiso. Tlie local club, under the chairmanship of DICK ROSENTHAL, '54, assisted the host school Valparaiso in making this event a financial success. Attendance numbered more than 7,000 people. Dick was also chairman of the Pre-Ltnten Smoker held at the Ccntlivrc Sodal Room February 10. TERRY COONAN, 
C.C.H.S. basketball co^-rJi, was guest speaker and showed mo\-ics of Central Catholic games. 
ART FRERICKS was chairman of a very success­
ful retreat held Sunday, March 9, at Sacred Heart 

Seminary'. 
FATHER JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., was 

tlic University guest at the Club's Universal Notre 
Dame Nigbt obscr^-ance April 22. 
—JOSEPH H. DANIEL, Sec>-. 
Green Bay 
TOM HEARDEN is rapidly recovering from a 

stroke suffered last summer and gradually working 
into duties as defensi%'e coach with the Green Bay 
Packers. LOU RYMKUS resigned as Packer line 
coach to accept a similar job ^wlh the Los Angeles 
Rams. 
Prexy JOE NEUFELD acquired the Schmitt 

Brothers quartet, former national SPEBSQSA cham­
pions, for Universal Notre Dame Night. Tlic 
foursome, incidentally, sang at Joe's wedding to 
the former Evalecn Everson last October. 
Some 70 couples attended our U.N-D. Night 

celebration. 
Newcomers to the Green Bay area include: DR. 

RICHARD L. MYERS, DR. DANIEL W. SHEA, 
JERRY KUSKOWSKI, and JOHN HOFF. The>­
were officially welcomed to the club (i.e., dues 
taken) on U.N.D. Night. 
—TOM MURPHY, Scc>-. 

Horrisburg 
On February 20 the Notre Dame Club of Harris­burg held a stag party at the home of EDWARD 
R. ECKENRODE, SR. Highlights of the 1957 Football Season and a film of Notre Dame were shouTi. The party was well attended and a fine time was had by all. 
The Club regrets the death of EDWARD C. SMITH, SR., Class of 1901, who died thb month. Mr. Smith was the oldest member in the Club and was active in club activities while his health per­mitted. The Club had a Mass said for Mr. Smith and extended its s>Tnpathy to the family of the deceased. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was an extremely successful occasion bringing REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., and JOHN MacCAULEY as guests from the University. 
—ROLAND H. BERGER, JR., '52, Sec>-. 

Hiowothaland 
JIM ARMSTRONG, executive 5ecretar>- of the Alumni Association, was guest speaker at the Club's annual Universal Notre Dame dinner at the River­side Country Club, Menominee, Mich. About 65 alumni and friends from the area attended the event at which MIKE O'HARA was a surprised recipient of the "Notre Dame Man of the Year" au-ard. 
Houston 
March 16th, 1958 was the occasion of the Club's Atmuai Lenten Communion breakfast with the Ladies Auxiliary. Seventy-five members were present, and cvcr>'one profited by the fine talk made by the Auxiliary- Chaplain, FATHER FRAN­CIS MONAGHAN. After receiving Communion in a body at St. j\nne's Church the group assembled at the Briar Club for breakfast and the program in keeping w*itlt Lent. 
Response has been ver>' good to our club's efforts 

for locating alumni who arc new to our area. 
Interest in our activities by new members has been 
most gratifying. 
President LEIGHTOX YOUNG *37, set April 16 as Universal Notre Dame Night and evcrj'one was very pleased to have FATHER JOHN CAVA­NAUGH as the principal speaker. TIic setting of this annual event was at the River Oaks Country* Club. About 300 members and guests attended. 
The University Golf Team was the s"csl of the local club during the Easter vacation. While in Houston they played in the Southwestern Inter­collegiate sponsored by the University of Houston. It was a great pleasure hawng the boys here, and we look forv\-ard to their visit being an annual affair. 
—LEO LINBECK, JR., Sec^-. 

Indianapolis 
Members enjoyed seeing the "Football Highlights of 1957'* film and meeting Assistant Coach BERNIE ^\T^UCKI at a special meeting Februarj* 11. 
The Indianapolis Club held its Universal Notre Dame Night dinner, at the Athenaeum April 21, under the cliairnianship of TOM O'BRIEN, '53. The main speaker «-as F.\THER JOHN J. CA\'A­NAUGH. 
BILL WELCH, '57, has accepted appointment by the directors as executive secretary of the club. His address h 23 W. Ohio St., Indianapolis. 
—JOE HERRINGTON, '50, Secy. 

Jackson 
The new officers for the coming year for the Jackson Notre Dame Club are: President, JAMES 
F. MORTELL; X'lce-President, WILLIAM A. DOTTERWEICH; Secretary-, GERARD L. MEYER; Treasurer, C\'RIL J. HARTMAN; to the Board of Directors Averc elected LESTER WTSDA and LYMAN HILL. 
The club observed Universal Notre Dame Night vrith MORTELL and BLAIR McGOWAN handling the arrangements. A golf stag outing and Com­
munion breakfast are being planned for the late spring. —GER^VRD L. ^fEYER, Scc>-. 
Kankakee Valley 
.Mumni Sccrctar>- JAMES E. ARMSTRONG was a University guest at the Valley Club's ob5cr\"ance of Universal Notn Dame Night April 17. 
Kansas City 
Tlic last affair of the club here in Kansas City was the annual Christmas dance that was held last year on' the night of December 26 at the Hotel President in downtown Kansas City. Activities got under u-ay promptly at 7:30 when the cocktail hour began. .-\t 8:30 the dinner bell was sounded and 310 people sat down to a roast beef dinner. Dress was informal throughout the whole evening. Music by Lcs Copley and his orchestra drifted over the crowd from 9:30 until 1 a.m., when the affair came to an end. The crowd was made up of both alumni and students, and was one of the largest crowds in the history- of the dance. An autographed football, donated by the student club, was the door prizs, and appropriately enough was won by a student, STEVE SHERWOOD. Corsages were passed out at tlie door to the ladies. Co­cliairman for the affair were GEORGE HIGGINS and BERNIE FINUaVNE, assisted as always by the officers of the club and Mr. RUSS FARRELL, ^ immediate past president of the club. Thanks to many others, on a list too long to put down, arc also extended. Proceeds from the dance, which were not too large, were given to the WILLIAM ROCKHILL NELSON Scholarship Fund. 
Tlic 1957 Alumni Fund Drive, under the able super\ision of Mr. JOE STEWART, came to a close in December. Final results were not available al this writing, but from rough estimates received to this date, the club and all alumni in tliis area made an outstanding showing. Final percentage of all local alumni will be included in our next report. 
Congratulations are extended to Joe Stewart on his election to the Alumni /Vssociati'on Board in December, 
On March 3rd a number of the officers and members attended the annual Rocknc Dinner, an event held in Kansas City each year to com­memorate the passing of Knutc Rocknc. Although not sponsored by ths Club itself, it always has many of its audience drawn from the Alumni Club mem­bership. Awards are presented to \-arious sports * luminaries for deeds during the past year. 
St. Patrick's Day did not find any scheduled Notre Dame Club function, but many of its mem­bers were noticeable at many of the Irish establish­ments around town, such as Danny Hogarty's and The Famous downtown, to name a few. 
CALUMET REGION—The "Man of the Year" a\s-ard of the Calumet Region Club is pre­sented to John B. Radigan, Card, Ind., furniture dealer and Knight of St. Gregory. From left to right are William O'Connor of Hammond, incoming club president; Thomas H. ClifiTord, Jr., of Gary, outgoing president; Mr. Radigan; Rev. Arthur Hope, CS.C, guest speaker at Ac dub's Universal Notre Dame Night dinner, and James Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Association. 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus, May~Juney 1958 
CINCINNATI—A Scholarship Ball was held by the Cincinnati Club at the Nethcrland-Hihon. Left to right: Stephen P. Heekin, general chMrman; Mrs. Patricia W. Long, winner of mink stoic door prize; Mrs. John W. Fead, administrative chairman; Raymond W. Gud­mcns, Cincinnati Club president, and John Fead. 
The big event was Universal Noire Dame Night, which was held here in Kansas City on Monday night, April H, at the Hotel President. We were fortunate in having the REV^ EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, come down and talk to us. A crowd of about 200 people in­cluded alumni, u-ives and friends interested In the doings of the University. 
The week preceding ihc Notre Dame Night aflair, the student club at the University held its annual Easter dance nt Drexcl Hall in Kansas Cit>-. As in the past, the attendance was largely made up of students ar.d th^ir dates, but there was a good sprinkling of alumni to be seen. 
With the reunion week end coming around the comer in June, many of the members here in Kansas City arc anticipating a week end at Notre Dame. Among this hale and hearty group are JACK RUSSELL, 43, BOB OWEN, '43, JOHN TROUP , '43, RUSS FARRELL, '48, ED AYLWARD, '48, BUD M.VSSMAN, '53, GEORGE HIGGINS, '53, and H. J. MASSMAN, JR., '28, to name a lew. I understand that there will be more, but at this writing the complete list has not yet been made up. Congratulations to all of them for what will be undoubtedly a fine week end. 

1 Tiic 1958 Schol.irship Program, under the able 
direction of CR.MG UHITAKER, is now getting off to a start. Th-; pupular movie "Notre Dame" h being showa aroimd town, and the applicants for the scholarbhip from Kansas City will soon be getting set to take the first battery of tests. 
A new inovation of the Club is the up and coming stage nights. Present plans call for the Club to arrange a nioWe from the University to be shown, and have a program of good cheer, via 

' \*arious liquid stabilizers, and the movies. The nominal fee for admittance will more than be enough to reimburse to those attending through the good chesr and informal gathering. 
Summer p\ans in the background call For the students picnic to be held in the early part of the summer, followed by the annual alumni barbecue picnic in August. Plans for these two affairs are in the making, and at this writing, it is too early to tell just where, when, how, etc. 
The next report of the Notre Dame Club here in Kansas City may be postmarked Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri, as your writer is presently await­ing orders to report to active duty in the Army Rcscr\'c. An>^**ay, we'll see you next time! 
—JOHN T. M.\SSNL\N, '56, Secy. 
Kentucky 
The Notr: Dam- Club of Kentucky held three monthly business meetings during December, January and Februarv respectively. Plans were laid during these meetings for the Christmas Dance, Notre Dame—University of Louisville Basketball Game, 
Universal Notre Dame Night, Corporate Com­
munion Breakfast, election of officers. Annual Re­
treat at Gethsemaui, Ky., and other local matters. 
The club gathered together to say the rosary for two members who died during this period, name­ly, NfARTIN F. SULLI\'AN, SR., and FRANK R. CAHILL. Our sympathy is extended to the families of these men. 
The club sent congratulations to Mrs. LOUIS M. 
NICOULIN on the arrival of their little girl, 
Eleanor Carol. 
Our winter Corporate Communion Breakfast was 
a family affair and the attendance was not so good 
due to the cold wMthor and sickness that pre­
v'ailed during the time. The next Communion 
Sunday was held on March 30, 1958 at St. Nfary 
Magdalen Church. Special effort brought a good 
turnout in Our Lady's honor. 
The Christmas Dance was held December 26, 1957 at vhe Provincial House. A very good showing was made by both students and alumni to give a real boost to the Holiday Season. The dance was very capably supervised by President JIM HEN­NESSV, with the students doing an excellent job on the decorations. 
^^ay 23, 24 and 25, 1958 was set as the week end of the Annual Retreat at The Abbey of Our L.ady of Gcthsemani, Trappbl, Ky. All members were urged to make a special effort to bring a nou'CathoHc frien I to enjoy the quiet and peace of the Kentucky hills. 
On April 19 we put on our Universal Notre Dame Night. The guest speaker was REV. JOHN 
J. C/VV.\N.\UGH, C.S.C. —JOSEPH S. BOWLING, '52, Sccj*. 
La Crosse 
The Noire Dame Club of ha Crosse held the annual Nfcmorial Mass and Communion Breakfast on February 23, 1958 at St. Dominic's Monastery. FATHER THOM.VS NINNE^L\N, club Chaplain, was celebrant 3t ^fass and principal speaker at the breakfast. 
The scries of Holy Hours inaugurated by the club have met with great success. Tliey are held on special feasts of the Blesjcd ^^other. On Feb­ruarj- 3, 1958, the feast of the Purificarion of the Blessed Virgin, the ch:b had a fine turn out of Alumni, their wives and friends. The next Holy Hour was ifarch 25, 1958. the feast of the Annunciation. FATHER THOMAS NINNE,\L\N conducts the services. ROGER ZOELLNER and JIM KRONER, the co-chairmen, have done a fine job getting tlic club out. 
April 13 was our Universal Notre Dame Night. JOE BECKER, president and chairman of the cele­bration, planned a fine evening. A banquet at the Stoddard Hotel was preceded by a cocktail rccep­lior fcr tlie members, their wives and friends. FATHER THO.M/\S BREN*NAN, C.S.C., Ph.D., 
of the Philosophy Department of the University, was guest speaker. JIM KRONER and STEVE PAV­ELA were on the committee. Another great success was achieved. 
The club is proud of the fine attendance at their functions this past year and welcome to the club TOM S.AGGAU who recently transferred to La Crosse 
—JERRY HEBERLEIN, Sec>'. 
Lehigh Valley 
The annual Communion Sunday was observed on December 8, 1957 at Mary Immaculate Seminary, breakfast following in the Hotel Bethlehem. Rever­end Francis L. Meade, CM., v%-as the speaker. ROBERT P. (BERT) DADAY acted as Ch:urman of the event and our thanks to him for a fine job done 
The annual reception for students and their guests was held in the Livingston Club on Dec­ember 28, 1957. This year the affair was ex­tended tj include dinner and dancing, and a good time was had by all TO.M LENNO.V and TO.M MAGILL were the co-chainnen, and our thanks also to them for an equally fine job. 
We are pleased to have as a new member KIRK REILLY who has moved to AUentown recently to become business manager of the AUentown ar«*a baseball team. Kirk attended our regular monthly meeting on January 24, 1958, and we are in­debted to him for the showing of the film on the Boston Red Sox (Parent of the local club). Wel­come to the club Kirk and the best of success in your new venture! 
New officers were installed on Universal Notre Dame Night observed this year on April .12, 1958. They will be announced in the next issue. FATHER TOM O'DONNELL and JOHN Mac-CAULEY of the N. D. Foundation were guests at this event. 
—LOU ^VYNNE, Secy. 
Los Angeles 

The L.A. Club Universal Xotre Dame Ni-rht banquet was held Monday, April 14, in the Main Dining Room of the Los Angeles Athletic Club. The principal speaker \vas Laughlin Waters, U. S. District Attorney. 
New officers installed at the banquet were: DONLEY L. BRADY, '49. President: ED. W. SHEERAN, '31, First Vice-President: FRANK .1. MEYER, '38, Sec.md Vice-President, and EUGENE CALHOUN, '33, Secretary-Treasurer. 
Neu- directors include JIM BACON, DONI.-^.Y 

L. BRADY, EUGENE CALHOUN. GERALD COW'HIG. WALTER .1. COVINGTON. FRANK 
M. DE LA VINA. ART C. FIEDLER. STEVE FINAN, ROBERT HEUTHER. BOB K. KELLEY, JACK LEONARn. ROBERT P. LONERGAN, JOHN B. Mc/VRDLE, GEORGE R. MEEKER, FRANK J. MEYER. DR. WM. MOLQNV, JR., HOW.ARD J. O'XEIL, C\RL J. RAU.SCH. PAUL 
J. RIGALL ART T. RV,\N. BEN SALV,\T^\ ED. 
W. SHEERAN. EZR,\ SMITH. CHARLES E. STINE. DR. LEO V. TURGEO.V and PAUL WADDELL. 
Memphis 
.Assistant Coach BERNIE CRI.M.MINS ivas a guest of honor at the Memphis Club Universal Notre Dame Night April 8. 
Miami 
Tlie annual Christmas dinner-dance of the Greater Miami Notre Dame Alumni Club v**cs held on December 14 at the Miami Shores Countrx* Club. The affair, preceded by a cocktail party was a huge success and enjoyed by the alumni and friends, who followed the dinner in singing Clirist­mas carols. 
Father Kell=r, a gtiest visitor from the University attended. The party was planned and completely arranged for by the wives of the alumni, headed by Betty Zorovich. 
On Jaruary 9lh the Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami held its first meeting at the Urmey Hotel, 34 S.E. 2nd Ave., downtown Miami, the future meeting place on the first Thursday (night) of each month. Among the visiting guests attending was. Buckey O'Connor. 
The highlight of th: meeting was the election and installation cf the new Club Officers and members of the Board of Directors. They are as 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 29 
follows: President, CHAS. E. MAKER, '35; 1st Vicc-Prcs., JAMES A. SMITH, '48; 2nd Vicc-Prcs., 
W. DAN ROWLANDS, '50; Sccrcury, DR. WILLIAM B. WELCH, '48, and Treasurer, ARTHUR C. BERGEN, '31. To the Board of Di­rectors: JHCHAEL J. ZOROVICH, EDWARD J. H.\NLy, JR., MICHAEL O'NEIL and JEROME 
P. HOLLAND. Holdover Directors: EDWARD A. KELLY, GEORGE A. BRAUTIGAM and JOHN 
A. KOTTE. 
The Miami Club took part in a joint obser\-ance 

of Universal Notre Dame Night at the Florida 
State Convention at Fort Lauderdale, where the 
guest speaker w-as the University's Executive Vice-
President FATHER NED JOYCE. 
J.ACK HOUGHTELING and CILVRLIE .MAHER 

attended the football banquet of West Palm Beacli 
St. Ann's High on January 21 and presented Miami 
Club All-Florida CatlioHc football honors to grid 
aces Dick Lcpeska and Jack DeMarco. 
Well over a hundred "Irish" shoKed up for Mass and Communion at Gesu Church and breakfast atop the Columbus Hotel February 23. Visiting fireman from tfic campus were Foundation execs JIM FRICK and FATHER TO.\I O'DONNELL; • who celebrated Mass. Thanks to FATHER H.'A. GAUDIN, S.J., pastor at Gesu. 
The March meeting brought one of the largest turnouts ever enjoyed at a regular meeting. GEORGE COURY gave an interesting and in­formative talk on the Arab problem in the Near East. 
Coming events this year include a Christmas party ,to be held at Coral Gables Country Club and a Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday on Nov. 30. 
Michigan City 
On Saturday February- 1st of this year ihc Xotrc Dame Club of Michigan City held its annual Mid Winter Frolic at the Sk^-iat Legion Post in Michigan City. The foUou-ing officers were installed at this meeting: Pres., LOUIS BLACK, M9; \^ce-Prcs., EDWARD DWYER, '50; Secretary-, NORBERT SCHAAF, '50, and Treasurer. WILLIAM PRIEBE, '53. 
As a Program for the evening the alumni and their wives and guests viewed the "Notre Dame" film sponsor ed by the Notre Dame Foundation. The meal was served cabaret style and there was dancing following the filrn, 
All the members ^^•c^e saddened by the unexpected 
death of one of their members, WILLIAM A­
PFISTER, B.S. Com., '47, who lived at Stop 27 
Long Beach Michigan City. Bill died Sept. 15, 
1957, and funeral services were held at Xotre Dame 
Parish at Long Beach. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was obscr\cd April 
12. 
—NORBERT SCHAAF, Secy. 

Milwaukee 
**Tlic University Today*' was the topic for the speech given by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgli, C.S.C., at tiic Universal Notre Darac Night Banquet held April 14. His tremendously received talk highlighted the affair which was attended by the largest turnout in the history ot the Milwaukve Club. Honored guests in attendance to honor the President of the University of Notre Dame included: Honorable Vernon W. Thomson, Governor of the State of Wisconsin; Honorable Frank P. Zeidler, Mayor of the City of Milwaukee; Dr. J. Martin Klotche, Provost of the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee; Mr. Harold \'incent. Superintendent of Milwaukee Public Scliools; BROTHER LAW­RENCE MILLER. C.S.C., Director of St. Charles Boys Home; and numerous business and civic leaders from the Wisconsin area. Toastmaster JAMES A. BYRNE, President of the University of Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee, presented the Man^t-tlie-Ycar Award to JOHN P. CULLEN. Mr-Cullen was chosen for the award based on his activities as Manager of the Veteran's Administra­tion in Milwaukee and the state of Wisconsin, his cxempliary Christian leadership in Church and ci\ic atTairs, and his participation in the activities of the local organization. Co-Chairmen for the 
U.N.D. Night Banquet were Vice-President R. J. SULLIVAN and CHARLES O'NEILL, Executive Secretary of the St. Vincent De Paul Society; Public Relations was headed by HENRY GARVEV; Finances were handled by WALT SCHNEIDER and j\NGELO GALDABINL A reception at the Mil­waukee Athletic Club was attended by the honored guests, ollicers of the Milwaukee Club, and members of the committee and their wives. 
March 10 found the Milwaukee Club hosting at a Sports Night Smoker in the St. John's Cathedral Auditorium. Tlie large crowd in attendance wit­nessed the 1957 Notre Dame Football Hlghlichts and heard Coach TERRY BRENNAN rcview^his 
career <u grid mentor at Notre Dame and were very pleased to hear of his optimism for the 1958 season. The session was enlivened by Toastmaster LARRY "MOON" MULLINS who called on a number ol spoits celebrities on hand to ask Terr>* Brennan som? questions. Former Notre Dame sports greats who took a bow atid put questions to Coacli Brennan included LOU RY.MKUS, JACK VAINISI, BILL SCHALLER, TO.M VEECH, JOHN \U2UR , FRANK "BL.\CKIE" JOHNS­TON, ED MIEZKOWSKI. Such other notables in the sports world as "Baby Joe" Gans, Hank Marino, C. R. "Buckets" Goldcnberg, George McBride, Charlie Blossficld, Russ Rcbholz, and Eddie Race attended. Profits from the event were turned into the Notre Dame Scholarship Fund. WALT SCHNEIDER, R. J. SULLIVAN, and BILL WOODWARD, handled the finances; JOE .MESEC and MARK HEALY were in charge of the con­cessions, and JOHN MANION directed the arrange­ments. 
All members of the Milwaukee organization were 
asked to attend the general meeting held in May. 
Its purpose was to elect officers for the 1958-59 
fi.^cal year. 
—JOHN F. .M.-VNION, '56, Secy. 

Muskegon 
JOHN JORD/VN, head coach of the Notre Dame basketball team, was a guest of honor from the University at the Universal Notre Dame Night observation of the No'rc Dame Chib of Greater Muskegon, 
Naugatuck Valley 
EWARD W. KR^VUSE, Athletic Director of the University, spoke zt tlie Universal Notre Dame Night gathering of the Naugatuck Valley Club in Watcrbury, Connecticut, April 13. 
New Jersey 
Tlirowing dawn a challenge they'd like very much to see taken up across the countrx', the New Jersey alumni made their cltib the first Notre Dame association to contribute to the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame. Club President R.\Y TROY, 'S4, presented Executive Committeeman JIM McGOLDRICK, '39, with a check for 5230.00 
FORT WAYNE—Club members gather for the amiual retreat at Sats'ed Heart Seminary March 9. Retreat was conducted by Father 
Aloysius Mehr, O.S.C., professor of moral theology and canon law at the seminary (center, with President Bob Klingenbcrger). 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
in support of the National Football Foundation's program to erect a fitting Hall of Fame at Rutgers University, New Brunswick, New Jersey. Jim has been assigned 3. substantial quota and will need all the assistance his many friends can give him. To assure that our own all-time greats receive consideration and recognition, it seems proper tliat the individual alumni clubs play a leading role in raising the Notre Dame quota. Of the 110 players and 43 coaches elected to the Hall of Fame so far, only 3 players (Gipp, Caridco and Layden) and 1 coach (Rockne) come from Notre Dame. 

* By contrast, players from eastern schools are being admitted by squads and platoons. Let*s give Jim the help he needs. 
Presentation of our clieck was made at the Annual Communion Breakfast, which was held at Sorrcnio*s Restaurant in Neu-ark on December 7, after Mass celebrated at Sacred Heart Cathedral. Speakers included the Rl. Rev. MSGR. THOM.VS 
J. CONROY, HARRY STUHLDREHER, JOSEPH 
M. BYRNE, JR., '15, and JIM McGOLDRICK. Chairman JIM FITZSIMMONS, »50, surprised the group by presenting Alice McCoy for a delightful interlude of tastefully chosen songs. 
Visitors to the Newark area are reminded of the Club's First Friday luncheons at Kelly's Sea Food Restaurant. 
Universal Notre Dame Night ^^-as celebrated on April 9 at Mayfalr Farms under the direction of ELMER MxVTTHEWS, '47, and GEORGE PL.\IN, '39. REV. THEODORE HESBURGH. C.S.C., was 

' the guest of honor at the event. 
New Mexico 
FRANCIS L. "MIKE" L,VYDEN, 1958 Prcsr­dent of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, was the guest of the New Mexico Club for its Universal Notre Dame Night celebration in Albuquerque, 
N. M., Aiiril 28. 
New Orleans 
The Notre Dame Club of New Orleans has had large gathenngs within the past fcvv months. 
A cocktail party and buffet luncheon was held at the Mctairie Country- Club to watch the Notre Dame-Oklahoma Game on Television. This party was very wcU attended and needless to say the results were very gratifying. As the guests of the Notre Dame Club of New Orleans we were honored in hax-ing Mr. and Mr^. JOSEPH ECUYER, 

i parents of ALLE ECUYER. Arrangements for this party were handled by JOSEPH B. DAVID III and TOM McMAHON, JR., 
Our Club had its annual holiday gathering with the students and their parents Sunday night, December 29th. It was at this party that ALLEN ECUYER was presented his International News Service All-America award and the Club was very fortunate in having Line Coach BILL FISCHER as principal speaker. 

1 On Thursday, January 30th, the Notre Dame Club of New Orleans had a farewell luncheon for JOHN MA2UR, who is leaving New Orleans to become an assistant coach at Marquette University in Milwaukee. REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., Director of the Notre Dame Foundation, was our guest for Universal Notre Dame Night on Monday, April 14. CHARLES DUKE, new Managing Director of ^foisant International Airport here in New Orleans, ^ was pleasantly surprised to meet BILL FISCHER at our December 29th party, the two haWng been neighbors in South Bend. The members of the Notre Dame Club of New Orleans e.\tcnd their heartfelt sympathy to ANDY PILNEY on the recent death of his mother. 
—JAMES E. SMITH, Pres. 
New York 
On November 13, 1957, a good old fashioned smoker was held at the New York Athletic Club. Over one hundred New York alumni gathered around to shoot the bull. I am sure that the Army was replayed yard by >-ard innumerable times during the evening. 
The Twentieth Annual Communion Breakfast of the Notre Dame Club of New York was held on Sunday, December 8, 1957 at the Park Lane Hotel, Park Avenue, New York Cit^*. The New York Club was the originator of this activity and this year's breakfast, we considered to be the most successful ever sponsored by the Club. 
Guests of Honor included the Junior Senator 

ERIE—^Thirty-five Notre Dame alumni took part in the 39th annual Commimion Breakfast sponsored in March by the Guard of Honor of St. Ann's Church, Erie, Pa., founder of the Communion breakfast movement in the Erie diocese. At the head table were (left to right); Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C^.C, '23, director of the Notre Dame Foundation; His Excel­lency Most Rev. John Mark Gannon, D.D., D.C.L., LL.D., Archbishop-Bishop of Eric and the senior prelate of the U, S.; Robert A. Barber, *40, toastmaster and president of the Guard of Honor, and Rev. J. Joseph Downing, pastor of St. Ann's. 
from Massachusetts and possible presidential can­didate for 1960, Senator JOHN KENTs'EDY; the Vatican City Rcprcsentive to the Atoms for Peace Conference in Vienna, Mr. FRANK FOLSOM, Rt. Rev. MSGR. VOIGHT, Secretary for Education in the Diocese of New York and FATHER WILLLVM MORRISON, C.S.C., representing the University. 
Over two hundred thirty-eight alumni and their wives were present at this wonderful gathering. 
The Annual Scholarship Fund Drive arrived at a successful conclusion on January 15, 1958. Over $3,800.00 was laised to send a boy to Notre Dame. 
The 1958 Ford Country Squire slationwagon was won by Mr. JOSEPH J. CERVONE of \Vest Med-ford, Massachusetts, who had purcliased the chance while travling from New York to Philadelphia for the Army-Notrc Dame game. 
The Seller's Prize, which was a choice of one of the following: I. a mink stoic; 2. a §1,000.00 U.S. "E" Bond; 3. a complete wardrobe of Ceil Chap­man Originals; 4. a Crosby-xMison fiberglass motor­boat, or 5. a two weeks cruise (for two) to the Caribean on the S.S. Homeric, was won by ^f^. LOUIS J. BREITER, the father of ROBERT BREITER, '52. Mr. Brcitcr selected the $1,000.00 
U.S. "E" Bond. We wish to thank the following for assisting the Club in this worthy aclivity.-JIM SHIELS, HUBERT SCHUVFLY, TOM McEVILY, BOB REx\LE, HERB KENYON, JACK MURPm', .XHKE MAL­
LARDI, JACK HOYT, JOHN DUFFY, GENE MAGUIRE, DON*N DUFFY, BILL FALLON, FLO MCCARTHY, JOHN z^\^cKER, JOSEPH FRIEL, 
BILL MURPHY, HERB MCD.\DE, TOM L.XNTRY, JOHN ABBATEMARCO, BUD MUL­VEY and JIM KOMINSKEY. 
The following men have been elected Officers of the Notre Dame Club of New York for the year 1953: BUD MULVEY, President; GUS H.ARDART, Secretary; JIM SPELLM.\N, Treasurer; ED NEA­HER„ Vice-President; TONY DiBARI, Vice-Presi­dent, and JOE LORDI, Vice-President. 
The Notre Dame Club of New York obscr\ed Universal Notre Dame Night at a formal dinner dance at the Park Lane Hotel on Thursday, Auril lOth. Father Hcsburgh was the guest of honor. Tills year's U.N.D. Night was attended by over three hundred guests, and the Club considered it a ver>' successful affa:r. 
The Trust Fund of the Club has announced that it will receive applications for several scholarships to Notre Dame. BUD MULVEY, Club President, rcpojrted that, so far, hes has received over a hundred applications for these scholarships. 
The Club, conducted a very successful dinner party at Toots Shor's in conjunction with the Notre Dame-N.Y.U. basketball game. BUI Rogers chairmaned the aH'air, and approximately 100 turned out for the occasion. FATHER JOE BARRY, MOOSE KRAU5E, and BOB &\HILL were among the distinguished guests from the University. 

—AUGUSTIN S. RARDART, JR., Sec. 

Northern California 
The N.D. Club of Northern California celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on Monday, April 21, at Rickey*s Red Chimney Restaurant in San Fran­cisco. REV. THOMAS J. LANE, C.S.C., from the Notre Dame chemistry department, represented the University, and representatives were inrited from Bay area colleges and universities. 
North Florida 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by the North Florida Notre Dame Club on Thursday, April 17, at the Officers Club, Naral Air Stau'on, Jackson\-ille, Fla. The featured guest was FATHER EDMUND JOYCE, executive vice-president of Notre Dame. CHARLES M. MOUCH, JR., and x\L KESSING shared the arrangements. 
Oklahoma City 
REV. GLENN BOARMAN, C-S.C, was honor guest from the University and featured speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Night observance of the Oklalioma City Club on April 29. 
Orange County 
EUGENE KENNEDY, a Vice-President and Director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, was a guest at the Universal Notre Dame Night celebration of the Notre Dame Club of Orange County California on April 14. 
Philadelphia 
Club elections were held in January- WALTER GROTHAUS was re-elected to serve as President; JOHN MOORHEAD, Vice-President; BART JOHN­SON, Treasurer; andJLM LEYDON, Secretary. Elected to ser\-c on the Board of Directors were: JOHN P. DE.MPSEY, THOMAS F. DEMPSEY, JOHN VOrr, BARTON B. JOHNSON and \VILLIAM BURNS, 
Mr. MLLIAM B. BALL, Professor of Law at Villanot*a University spoke to club members at the 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 31 
Fcbniar>' meeting on the "Censorship Controversy-,*' 
All who attended left the meeting better informed 
on the subject after Mr. Ball's fine presentation. 
CLIFF JRODEHL, Chairman of Laetarc Sunday 

actixitics, presented altar vestments on behalf of 
the Club ol St. Ignatius Parish in Philadelphia. 
The Philadelphia Club was host to the football 

coaclics attending the XCAA Coaclis* Conference 
held in Philadclplita in Januarv-. It was a real 
opportunity for club members to meet and talk 
with the top coaches from all over the countr>-. 
Tliis affair was a iremcndnns success and all who 
attended enjoyed ii. 
UnivcFaa! Notre Dame Night was held again Uiis year at the Cherry Hill Inn in New Jersey on Apnl 27th. Our chairman was JERRY VOIT. We wcjc fortunate to have JOHN JORDAN as our gucil speaker. 
Tlic 1958 ^f;^n of (he Year .Award went to JOHN MOORHE.-\D lor his untiring efforts in behalf of the University and our local club. 
.•\noihcr Philadelpliian received recognition on this Universal. Notre Dame Night. BOB DEVCCE, Captain of the Notre Dome Basketball team, received special recognition for his contribution to Nolle Dame's successful year on the court. 
-JIM LEYDON, '49. Sec^-. 

Pittsburgh 
Our Dec. 8th Communion Breakfast was held at S;s. Cy-il and Methodius B>-zantine Catholic Scml­nar>-, with some 49 members attending. Program included a High Mass sung by the Choir, a wonder­ful Breakfast, Group Rosar>-, and last but not least, a showing of the new Notre Dame Film, whicli the members received with great enthusiasm. 
We also had a wonderful 32nd Annual Christmas Ball, which was a social as well as a financial success, with Messrs. Joe Gasparella and Joe Celento as Co-chairmen. There were some 210 people in attendancr. A local Notre Dame GIcc Club pro­dded entertainment. Favors included large Santa Clauses, which were raffled off to the most de­scr\-ing woman at each table. Plans arc now being made for our Communion Breakfast to be held Februarj- 23rd with Mr. George Corivin acting as Chairman. 
The 35th Annual Obscr\-ancc of Notre Dame Night was held traditional second Monday after Easter. The Pittsburgh Club joined this worldwide commemoration with a dinner for Notre Dame men, their wives, their families and their friends at the Webster Hali Hotel. 
Our guest of honor was The Ver>' Reverend Vernon F. Gallagher, President of Duqucsne Uni­versiiv. anc our Toastmastcr was the well-known Mr. HARRY STUHLDREHER.- We had FATHER GALLAGHER as our main speaker to incorporate the University of Notre Dame with our local Institu­tion, and how they tic into on over-all program for the local alumni. Mr. Stuhldreher gave us his usual fine job as Toastmastcr, as well as presenting an over-all picture of Notre Dame's ten-year pro­gram. Many locr-l men in the field of education ivere guest;. 
One of the events of the evening u-as the induction Prcsident-eiect. CHARLES L. CHRISTEN; Vicc-Presidept. PETE FL.\HERT\% Sccrelarv: DON BEBENEK, and Treasurer HARRY PATTERSON, plus new Governors JI.M McNULTY, CARL LINK, JOE GASPARELL.A, PAUL .ANDERSON and EARL BREIGER. 
The hichliglit of the evening was the presentation ol the Noire Dame Man-of-thc-Ycar award to a ver>' wonderful member of the Club, DR. J. A\'M. McGOWAN. Dr.McGowan graduated in 1925, and received a Masters Degree in 1926; he was the founder, and has been tlic head of the Catholic Youth Association of the Pittsburgh Diocese for the past 32 ycais: and he hxs been a Professor of Sociology- at Duqucrnc Umvcn-ity since 1930. 
Phoenix 
National Alumni President ^HKE L/\YDEN was a visitor at the Phoenix Club's Universal Notre Dame Nii;h' on .April 26. 
R. L & S. E. Mass. 
The club sponsored the appearance of the Notre Dame Concert Banfi in conjunction with its U.N.D. Night celebration. As in the most recent appearance of the G!ee Ciub, tins affair was held at Bayvicw 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June^ 1958 

FORT LAUDERDALE—The Notre Dame Qub of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., elected the four Notre Dame graduates pictured above to officership for the year 1958. From left to right, seated: President Frank McDonough, '41; Vice President Frank McGinn, '52; Treasiu-er John McGinn, *54; and, standing, Secretary Tom Murray,'50. 
Academy. In tlie oast, the full proceeds from this affair were tiimed over to the Sisters of Mercy, but this YC3> 3 portion of the proceeds \%*ill be channeled into the dubs loan fund and the balance will be given to the Sisters of Merc>'. 
The U.N.D. Night committee was headed by JAMES McMULLEN and he was helped by JOHN MAGUIRE, JOHN McLAUGHLlN, JOSEPH 
MCDONALD and JAMES MURPHY. 
JAMES .MURPH Y gathered front page head­lines, complete with pictures, for his activities at the recent Rhode Inland constitutional convention. James and Mrs. Murphy are also to be con­gratulated on the birth of a daughter. 
The club has set up a no interest loan fund to help Notre Dame students from the area. It is hoped that this fund will continue to grow and that worthwhile aid can be given to all who need 
-JOHN J. CURTIN, *48. Secy. 

Rochester 
A vcr>' successful Christmas dance was enjoyed by 175 couples at the University Club on the last Saturday in December. A roast beef dinner and dancing to Vic Sweet's orclicstra was arranged by BILL DEMPSEY and Mrs. DON BOOTH co-chair­men. A committee of Mr. and Mrs. TOM HIG­GINS, Mr. and Mrs. JACK DUFFY, Mr. and Mrs. JACK HEiVGNEY, Mr. and >[rs. JOHN CASEY and Mr. and Mre. TED KINTNER aided in making the evening very enjoyable. 
.A club smoker was held in February. Football HighligiitJ of 1957 was shown at the meeting. At the annuel meeting in Mardi a new slate of 
officers for the coming year was selected. DICK KLEE is the new President. He will be assbted by REGGIE .MORRISON, Vice-President, PHIL FIN-NEGAN, Secretary, and BILL McGARTY, Treasurer. Tlie new officers succeed TOM HIG­GLVS, JACK BURKE, BILL DE.MPSEY and JOE CATTALANI, respectively. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held in Rochester on Friday April 11, on the Starlight roof of the Sheraton Hotel. BILL REEVES, GUS FALCONE and Mrs. JACK BURKE were in charge of the affair. We were fortunate to have ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE as our guest speaker. 
The Ladies Aimliary staged a Fashion Show for Mothers and Daughters in February. Mrs. REGGIE MORRISSON and Mrs. AL\RK DOWLING were co-chairmen. Several events arc in the planning stage for the lalc spring and early summer actirities. 
—BILL DE.MPSEY, Scc>-. 

Rockford 
REV. THOMAS J. BRENN/\N addressed the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Rockford, lU., ApiTl 14. 
Rock River Volley 
HUGH DEVORE, new Freshman football coach at the University, was guest speaker at the Uni­versal Notre Dame Night dinner of the Notre Dame Chib of Rock River Valley in Dison, 111., April 28. 
Rome 
Tlie climax of 1957 was our annual Communion Day which happily took place on the Feast of The Immaculate Conception itself. .-Vs usual xve celebrated this spiritual reunion at the General Curia of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Our Chaplain, FATHER EDWARD L. HESTON, C^.C , offered a Solemn High Mass assisted by REV. JAMES DOIG, CS-C, '54, as Deacon, and REV. LE\^1TE THERIAULT, C.S.C., as Sub Deacon. Father Heston preached on "Our Lady of Lourdcs and Notre Dame" In honor of the forth­coming Lourdes Year. 
TIic main feature of the breakfast following Mass was the installation of the Rome Club's first set of officers. Acting as Installing officer, FATHER BERNARD E. R.\NSING, C.S.C., /Vssistant General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, seated the fol­lowing as club officers for 1958: WARREN J. .ASHLEY, '33, President; GEORGE GLE/\SON, '37, Vice-President; VINCENT G. Mc/\LOON, '34, Secretary, and FATHER EDWARD L. HESTON, C.S.C., '30. Chaplain. With over sbcty alumni and friends in attendance, we had as our special guests, T-'cmbers of the newly formed Student Coimcil of Notre Darac International School. 
In reply to a letter sent by the club president to President Eisenhower during his recent illness, we received a very cordial note of gratitude thank­ing the club for its prayers in Rome. 
New N.D, people among us: MOTHER M. ALOYSI, SND., '22, who has taken three degrees at X.D. and will be in Rome for some time. FATHER JAMES DATKO, O.M.!., '5\, studying in Rome. BROTHER LUCI^VN, CR., a warm "subway'* alumnus from South Bend itself, here on a microfilming assignment. 
To start 1938 out well the club was honored to take part in a "triangular" cliaritablc project: Father Ransing, TWA, and the N.D. Club succeed­ed in delivering to the door of St. Charles Hospital. Brooklyn, little Paul Tufano, seven-ycar-old son of AL TUFANO, our Rome *'subway" alumnus, and employee of TAVA. Paul is to receive gratis, treat­ment for polio at St. Charles at the request of Father Ransing; TWA flew the boy and his parents "for free" and the N.D. Club contacted the N.D. Club of New York City through its Chaplain. FATHER SEB/\STIAN EGAN, O.F.M., '34, plus 

' other friends, to offer assistance on the U. S. end. 
His Eminence Gregory Peter XV CARDINAL AGAGI.ANIAN, Patriarch of Armenia of the Cilicians. was made an honorarj' member of the Ron.c CI»ib before 120 alumuni and guests at a Universal Notre Dame Night ceremony at Holy Cross International College April 14 in Vatican City. He spoke on Christian education and the Lourdes Centenary-. Other guests were MSGR. 

. WILLIAM DOHENY, C.S.C., of the Sacred Roman Rota, and REV. CHRISTOPHER OTOOLE, C.S.C., Superior General of Holy Cross. 
Finally, we always wish to repeat that our hospitality mat is out in Rome for all comers. Currently we are listed in the United States Embassy weekly bulletin. So come to Rome and let us make you feel at home. 
—VINCE NfcALOON, Secy. 
Saginaw Valley 
Our Unlver-'al Notre Dame Night was held on April 7. FATHER Ci\Vf\NAUGH was ovir honored guest for the evening. We extended invitations to members and their .vivcs, along with a host of civic and educational leaders in the tri-citics of Midland, Bay City and Saginaw. Atayors and editors in each city were also invited. Industrial leaders in these communities attended a luncheon the same day to hear an informal talk by Father Cavanaugh. a\R L W. DOOZ/\N headed the com­

^ mittec for Universal Notre Dame Night, and this was one of the biggest we have had. The major event wps held at the Hotel Bancroft in Saginaw. Our Family Communion Sunday was obser\'cd at St. Jaaics Church in Bay City, March 30, with a breakfast following at St. James for the families. Gerry Carroll was chairman of this event. 
TOM CARROLL, GERRY CARROLL. BILL MEAGHER, and JOHN MEAGHER represented the Notre Dame Club's contribution toward the annual St. Patrick's Day Parade Committee in Bay City. This event has grown in stature until it is one of the largest parades outside of New York. On March 16, 20 marching units and 30 floats stretched a mile long before an estimated 50,000 people. 400 "Friendly Sons of Si. Patrick" journeyed from Detroit to march in the parade. The preceding evening the University of Notre Dame Concert Band performed before a sellout crowd of 1200. The band was entertained tJiat night at a party at the Wenonah Hotel in Bay City. 
—CHARLES J. LEN2, Scc%-. 
St. Louis 
Our spring meeting was held early in Feb­ruar>*. The gathering was limited strictly to Club business with a discussion of otir Scholarship Pro­gram by committee chairman RtVY DONLiW^. 
Following the spring meeting a mail ballot u-as sent out for the election of four new members to the Board of Directors. Those taking office at 
U.N.D. Night were: BOB CHICKEY, BOB CON­aVNNON, PAT 0*.ME.\R.\. and JI.M PHEL.\N. .-\lso announced at Universal Notre Dame Night were the Club's ofiiccrs for the next year, the Man-of-thc-Year Winner and the Club's four-year 5chalar;hip winner. 
Unfortunately, at deadline, the names of these people were not available. However, we'll have a complete report in the next issue. 
Our plans for Universal Notre Dame Night were handled by DICK MUCKERMAN and ALRAVAR­INO. The annual ob5er\'ance was held at the Hotel Chase on April 8 and was a couples affair. TERRY BRENNAN was the guest of honor. 
Following U.N.D. Night on the Club's calendar of events will be our Second Annual Retreat to Our Lady of Fatinia Retreat Ifousc at Notre Dame. JACK SULLIVAN and DICK K.\RR are in charge of arrangeniems. BOB ROSEN"nL\L .and BILL EGGERS arc handling this year's family picnic which is scheduled for June i4th. Rounding out the activities schedule will be our Annual Golf Tourney and Dinner on Julv 29. GEORGE DES­LOGE and WARD DRISCOLL will be in charge. 
Our monthly luncheons are still being held the :.ccond Monday of the month at the Key Club of the Hotel SCieraton-Jefferson. 
—DO.V R.\TCHFORD, '50, Retiring Seo-.-Trcas. 
St. Joseph Valley 
Mter an extremely successful testimonial dinner for the Notre Dame football team and newly instituted Family Communion Breakfast in De­cember the Valley Club had a large delegation at 

HIAWATHALAND—Officers of the Hiawathaland Notre Dams C!ub chat with James Armstrong, Alumni sccrctarj*, who was guest speaker at the club's Universal Notre Dame Night dinner in Menominee, Mich., April 12. From left to right: T. J. Bergan, Wee-presi­dent; Dan Bagley, treasurer; Armstrong, and John Plouff, president. About. 65 area alumni attended the event, at which Michael O'Hara, Menominee attorney, was named Notre Dame Man of the Year-
the Villager's March basketball testimonial, zt which they were officially represented by Retiring President DON FISHER. 
BERT METZGER, who played under KNUTE ROCKNE in his latter ycaf3 as coach, was the featured speaker at the club's amiual Rockoe Memorial Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn on the campus Nlaxch 30. Other speakers were; Alumni Secretary JIM ARMSTRONG, and Club Chaplain REV. PHILIP MOORE, C.S.C. The breakfast was followed by a trip to Highland Cemetery for ceremonies at the graves of Rocknc, Track Coach JOHN NICHOLSON and Basketball 
Coach GEORGE KEOGAN. Members of Rockne's family were in attendance. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was also obser\-ed in the Morris Inn en April 28. REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., was the featured speaker, describing the University's new development pro­gram, ^fembers of the neighboring Elkhart Club were invited to this joint celebration. 
Officers installed during the evening were: JOHN CACKLEY, '37, President; RUDY GOEPFRICH, '26, VIce-Presidtnt; JOE HICKEY, '50, Secretary, and ED MEEHAN, JR., '49, continuing as Treas­urer. HERB JONES is Honorary President, and the new Club Chaplain is REV. JOHN E. WALSH, CS.C. New Directors arc: BILL GIBBONS, HARRY KOEHLER, JR., JAKE JANOWSKI and JACK POWERS. , The traditional Football Preview pitting the 1958 N^otre Dame Varsity against the Irbh Old Timers was held May 10. Proceeds go to the Valley Club's Scholarship Fund. 
St. Petersburg-Tampa 
St. Petersburg's Notre Dame Club held a dinner meeting at Al Kareem Club on Pinellas Point on Thursday, March 6, honoring FATHER THOMAS O'DONNELL and JIM FRICK, Directors of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Salina 
On January 7 the new Bishop of the Salina Diocese was installed in Sacred Heart Cathedral. He is Frederick W. Frcking. The Salina Notre Dame Club had a 7Q0-foot movie made of the installatiin ceremonies, and ROBERT McAULIFFE presented the 700-fool film to Bishop Freking. The club received a lot of favorable comment locally. 
At present the Salina Club is polling its sup­porters on the annual football trips. We are trying to determine if It is possible to get up a special train for the Southern California Game in Los Angeles. It's a big job and an expensive trip and I don't know if we're going to be able to get the necessary 150 people. So far, we've had about 40 replies to our questionnaire with about 509o indicating they would make the California trip, and the other 50% being divided as to whether they'd rather go to South Bend to a game or to Dallas for the Southern Methodist Game. 
The Club sponsored a Retreat in Kansas City in March and although it's quite a trip over there we got two carloads lined up to go. Our Oklahoma trip was a decided success and wc will have another nice contribution for the Foundation. 
—ALBERT J. SCHWARTZ, Sec>--Treas. 

San Antonio 
Officers and Directors of the San Antonio Club were elected at a luncheon meetinij March 20. 
Xcw ofHccrs are: JOHX M. O'COXXELL, '53, President: EMMET CATER, '32, Vice-President, and WILLIAM F. MARKEY, 31, Secretary-Treas­urer. 
Directors include Past President JESSE POSTOX, '49, MIKE COXLEY, '49. CHARLIE BLO.M­FIELD, '49. and A. C. "DOC" WADE, '36. 
—JOHX M. O'COXXELL, Pres. 

San Diego 
The Notre Dame Club of San Diego conducted a business meeting March 10 for the election of new officers for the coming year, and the main topic of business after said election was, of course, the 35th Universal Notre Dame Night. 
.MSGR. STORM was the speaker at our local celebration. The newlv elected ofiiccrs arc as follows: President, 
F. J. (RED) DAVIS. '48; Vice-President. DICK 
DERENTHAL, '51; Secretary. JACK MURPHY, 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ May^June, 1958 
'51; Treasurer, WALT GEUDTNER, '50; Chaplain, REV. JOHN D. GALLAGHER, '33, and Board of Directors: HUGO ROSSI, '42. 
-F. J. (RED) DA\aS, Prcs. 

Seranton 
At a recent meeting of our Seranton Club we elected new officers as follows: President, THOMAS 
J. H.ARRINGTON", '34; Vice-President, THOMAS 
P. COMERFORD, '42; Secretary, RICHARD J. JORDAN, '51. and Treasurer, JOSEPH M. Mc-DADE, '53. 
South Carolina 
Our Fcbniar>' mcclin-; was bcld at Oic Holiday Inn in Charlcsioa to wricomc Coach Tcrr>' Brennan who was in toun to address tlic CYO of S- C. Due to a delay in plane arri\-al Tcrr>' was unable to join us—but wc were able to sec him later at his hotel. 
March 15 we held our St. Patrick's meeting in Columbia to present a Man of the Year plaque to REX EXRIGHT, '26, Athletic Director at the University of Soutii Carolina. 
Congratulations were in order for family additions to GEORGE NICHOLS, *49, twins (boy and girl; RONNIE McMANUS, *55, a girl, and NEIL McMANUS, '47, a girl. 
\Vc welcomed JOE JUDGE, '51, who with his wife Mary and four children recently moved to Gharlcslon as manager of the Orkin Company. Joe came down from South Bend where he had been with the Associates Investment Corporation for seven years. 
JOE CONDON, '49, was appointed V^cc-Presidcnt 

to fill out the term of LEO MAHONEY, '52, who 
recently moved out of the state. Our meeting in 
May was a family affair—a beach week end at 
Sulli^-an's Island. 
—BILL GWINN, Sccv-. 

Southeastern Wisconsin 
Our ann-jal Communion breakfast was held December 29 at St. Edward's Church in Racine and was ^vell attended—even got some members there that hadn't been going to meetings. 
We arc all sorry to hear that WALT McDER-MOTT, '45, our club president, is moving to Cali­fornia. He's ^old iiis business in Kenosha and plans to set up again out West. AVc'Il all miss him a lot—at Organizing beer drinking picnics he was tops. 
We held a business meeting in March for election ol officers. ED RAYMOND is the new President; DONALD KOTZ, Vice-President; and JOSEPH KIVXIN, Secrclarv-Trcasurcr. Joe was also elected assistant secretary of S. C. Johnson and Son recently. Tliis second position is a paid one in­cidentally. 
At this meeting wc also inaugurated a noon luncheoa gct-togcth-*r on the first Friday of ever\* mo'ith at the Racine Elks Club. WcVc found it gives the beys « cliance to talk about ever>-thing except bucincss. You'd be amazed how tliis has shortened the business meetings. If any of your readers arc in tlie Racine vicinity on a First Friday, they arc cordially invited to Join us for lunch. 
U.N.D. Night for our club was held April 22 at the Elks Club. Our speaker for the evening was FATHER JOYCE. Needless to say, we were ver>* flattered to have him gracing our table. A good crowd was on hand for his remarks about the dc\-elopment of the University-. 
—RICHARD WM. MURPHY, 50, Seo-Trcas. 

Terre Haute 
The University of Notre Dame Club of Terre Haute, Indiana had quite an active winter season. Under the guiding hand of President JOHN MURPHY many actinties \vcre enjoyed. On Dec­ember 8, REV. JOHN G-WANAUGH, past presi­dent of Notre Dame, addressed a deancr)--wide Communion Breakfast in honor of the Immaculate Conception. The Notre Dame Club of Terre Haute acted as host under the cliairmanship of RICHARD KELLEY. Over 500 guest>> attended to make the occasion a real success. 
On Januuar>' II a post-Holiday dance was held in the Blue Room of the Tcrre Haute House. RAYMOND KEARNS was chairman of the festivi­ties and was well assisted by JIM SULLIVAN. Prior to the dance cvcr>*one enjoyed himself at the cocktail party given by our honorable president and wife, Mr. and Mrs. John Murphy. 
Plans arc underway to have a large attendcnce at the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting. 
Our dub held the elections of new officers and the following members were elected: President, DRUIE CAVENDER, *46; Vice-President, RICH­ARD KELLY, '43; Secretary, PAUL M.AR1ETTA, '44; and Treasurer, CHARLES METZGER. PETE VARDA and JOHN BOYER were appointed to the board of directors. Mr. Jim Boyer will act as historian for the club. 
On April 14 we held our Universal Notre Dame Night Banquet- FRED CHRISTMAN was acting chairman. FATHER NORTON was the guest speaker. Tlie allair was held at tlie Terre Haute House. 
President JOHN MURPHY has finished his tenure ol office in grand ctyle. Recently he innov-ated the Notre Dame Club Newsletter which keeps the members informed on the club's programs and acti\ities. Father Culhane, Club Chaplain, has entertained the group with football movies after the meetings. The membership is quite proud of the meeting room that the Tcrre Haute House has granted them. 
—PETER R. VARDA, Sec>-. 

Tri-Cities 
DE.AN LA^VTvENCE BALDINGER of the .Voire Dame College of Science was guest speaker from tlic University at the Tri-Cities Club's observance 
. of Universal Notre Dame Night April 13. 
Tucson 
Tlie president cl the Notre Dame Alumni Association, ^^ICE LAYDEN, \*-as a guest of the Notre Dame Club ' of Tucson, Arizona, at its celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night on April 24. 
Toledo 
The annual Universal Notre Dame Night of the Toledo Notre Dame Club was held at the Park Lane Hotel on May 1, 1958. Tliis was a wonderful get-together of Notre Dame alumni, their wives, and friends. Cocktails, dinner and dancing were on the agznda under ilic chairmanship of RONALD BYERSMITH, *49, assisted by BL/UNE WILEY, '57 and JACK BECKHAM, *50. 
The meeting of the Toledo • Club's Board of Directors was held prcnously to elect the new officers for the 1958-59 term. The active alumni members voted by ballot to elect two new members to the Board of Directors for a three vcar term. TIic>- aie: ROBERT SCHRAMM, '39. JAMES MALONE, '44, and FRANCIS MALONE, '45, who is past president of the club. 
April 13 was the date of Uic Notre Dame Com­munion Breakfast held this year at the Toledo Club. FRANCIS X. 'TIM" BRADLEY, director of LOBUND and assistant dean of the Notre Dame Graduate Scliocl, was a guest speaker from the University. JAMES MURTAUGH, '48, Avas chair­man. 
Tulsa 
FRANK LEAHY visited Tulsa early in November and was special guest at a club luncheon held at the Tulsa Club. After luncli, Frank gave an in­formal talk and answered a series of questions concerning present and past activities of N.D. football teams. 
Over 600 persons from Tulsa and vicinity patron­ized the Club's football "Special" to the N.D.-O.U. game which was played at Norman. All proceeds went to our academic scltolarship fund and the trip chairman was BOB LAIRD. A fried chicken dinner was served en route and a good time u'as had by all. Needless to say, all members were overjoyed with the team's victor>' over the "Big Red." 
Since Octobei, the Club has enjoyed two Com­munion breakfasts, botli of which w-ere ^vell at­tended. At the second breakfast, FATHER CHARLES STATHAM, club cliaplain, gave an excellent talk on the responsibilities of the Catholic college graduatt. 
Tbe Annual Christmas dance was held at the Cimarron Ballroom on December SSth. Over 500 Tulsans Were guests of club members and N.D. studcnu. FRANK REIDY was general dance diairman with BOB JONES and BUDDY LA­FORTUNE handling decorations. This year's dance broke all attendance records and was again the highlight of Tulsa's Christmas season. 
On Febniarv- 3. dub members gathered in the Bam of the Bliss Hotel for the annual stag dinner. An excellent steak was served and N.D. football films were run afterwards. JOHN MADDEN was presented with a Man-of-the-Vcar award for his outstanding service and reports were given by the Treasurer, LARRY SCHMIDT, and by Scholarship Chairman, SPIKE SULLIVAN. 
A one-day retreat for club members only took place at Benedictine Heights College Sunday, February 16. Father Eric Beavers conducted the retreat ai.d a large turnout was achieved. 
LEO FAGAN, former president of the N.D. Club of Tulsa and one of its finest members, died unexpectedly on Januarv- 26th. Leo was president of Braden Steel Co. and an outstanding Catholic layman. He ^vill be sorely missed by Club members who held a special rosary for him Uie day after his death. 
New officers of ihc Tulsa Club arc: JOHN H. CONWAY, '44, President; DAVID M. THORN­TON, '48, Vice-President; JACK MOHATT, '32, Secretarv-, and ROBERT O. L;URD, 52, Treasurer. 
—ROBERT D. MANNIX, Scc\-. 

Twin Cities 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, executive secretar>- of the Notre Dame A.lumni Assodation, was a guest of the Notre Dame Club of the Twin Cities April 14 for Universal Notre Dame Night at the Normandy Hotel, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 
Washington, D C. 
On Sunday, March 9, the Washinston Club held a Family Commiuiinn Breakfast at Pilgrimasc Hall following ^^a5s at the Franciscan Monastery. The soeakcr was MSGR. IR\1XG L. DcBLANC, director of the Family Life Bureau of the N.C.W.C. JOE FITZMAURICE was chairman of the afTair. 
An election meeting and belated St. Patrick's Party took place March 18 at the Shcraton-Carllon Hotel under the cliairmanship of BILL >nDDEX-DORF. JACK .McGRATH, BILL MIDDENDORF, BILL DENNING and PAUL FISHER were re­turned to office. JOE KUHARICH and JIM Mc-GLOON joined the Boaid. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated on April 28. VIRGIL EXNER, vice president of the Chrj-sler Corporation, and REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., vice-president of the University were guest speakers. JOSEPH L. KUHARICH, Washington Redskins coach newly elected to the Board of Governors, was honored as Notre Dame Man of the Year. TIGHE WOODS w-as chairman. 
Western Washington 
The Notre Dame Club of Western AVashington held Universal Notre Dame Night TImrsday, April 17, at the Benjamin Franklin Hotel, Seattle, Wash­ington. Featured guest was Notre Dame Alumnus MIKE STEPOVICH, Governor of Alaska, ^vhile FATHER THOMAS LANE, C.S.C.. represented the University. 
Wichita 
At a meeting of the Wichita Club held February 17 the following officers were elected: President, THEODORE (TED) P. JOCHE.MS. '40; and Secretary-Treasurer, DR. WILLIAM P. CALLA­HAN, JR. 
—GEORGE A. SCHWARZ, Retiring 
Secy.-Treas. 

34 Notre Dame AlumnitSy May-June, 1958 
EDWARD C. SBiTTH. '01, died February 12 a Harrlsburg, Pa., after a long illness. He wai a 
retired electrical engineer. Surviving arc lui widow; a son, Edward, Jr., '36; three brothers aad three sisters. 
CUsSBS REV. M. T. SZALEWSKI, '01, died in South 
Engagements 
MUs Estcllc Bctit and FREDERIC D. HOTH, '43. Miss Margery Ann Gepner and FRANK R. 
PAXTOX, '48. Miss Kathy Shelton and RUSSELL SKALL, '30. Miss Man- Agnes Cummings and JOHN E. 
ARMSTRONG, '32. -Mbs Mar>- Ann Brown and ROBERT J. FINK, '52. Miss Calherin; Lengjel and WILLIAM B. LEWIS, '52. Miss Maureen Carroll and EDGAR A. SMITHE, JR., '32. Miss Maureen Egan O'Brien and ENS. DONALD P. GREIWE, '53. Miss -Marie G. Ladic and MILTON J. BE<\U­DINE, 54. Miss Patricia Ann Morrissey and JAMES F. &\HILL, JR., "54. Miss Regina M. Maguire and PAUL F. KELLEY, '54. Miss Gerotdinc Ann Gocpfrich and MILLARD 
T. BATTLES, JR., '55. Miss Kerry T. Sulli>-an and JOHN CH,VRLES SHEERIN, '55. Miss CaroljTi H. Flynn and LT. JAMES W. FAY, '36. Miss Eileen K. Charles and JOHN H. OWEiV, '56. Miss Katherine Duane and RONALD C. SMES­SAERT, '36. Miss SuKin Maura Tierncy and EARL HODGES WARE, '56. 
Miss Connie Rae Schulcr and ROBERT A. BERGIN, '37. ' 
Marriages 
Miss Joy Prothers and CAPT. GEORGE B. BAR­RETT, JR., '43, West Point, New York, December 8, 1937. 
Miss Madeline Sharretts, and JOHN J. YONA­KOR, '48, Morgantown, W. Va., December, 1937. Miss Man- E. McManon and GERi\LD J. LA^V­
SON, '49, West Orange, N. J., March 8. Miss Sybil -McMahon and JOHN B. LOWE, JR., '49, Columbia, S. C , February- 15. .MUs Suzanna A. AVilson and THO.NHS J. SHEE­HAN, '31, South Bend, Ind., January- 18. .Miss Patricia Kouchcrs and JAMES F. GARVIN, '32, Toledo, Ohio, January- 25. Miss Maureen J. Boland and JOHN A. M.\N­NING, '32, New York City. Xlis! Patricia Ann Bolgcr and HOWARD J. PHILLIPS, '32, Toledo, Ohio, January 18. 
.Miss Barbara Ann Crow and WALTER F. STUHLDREHER, '53, Indianapolis, Indiana, Nov­ember 30. 
Miss Angela M. Lopes and MANUEL A. SE­QUEIRA, JR., '34, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, Fcbruar\- 15. 
Miss Nancy M. Babcock and ROBERT B. CLE.MENTS, '55, South Bend, Indiana, January 18. Miss Carol ,\nn Lassalle and THOMAS J. 
MdlLVHON, '33, New Orleans, La., October 12. Miss Doris S. Wilson and ENRIQUE A. SOL, '55, El Salvador, April, 1958. 
Miss Linda McKay Lcarnard and ENS. FRED­ERICK C. WHITFIELD, '53, Washington, D. C, December 14. 
Miss Miclial Jane Watt and ENS. ROBERT W. MORSCHES, '56, Fort Wayne, Ind., February 13. Miss Mary Louise Singlcr and JOHN A. KEEVER, '38, South Bend, Ind., January 18. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM F. CRAIG, '29, a son, Timothy, February 2. Mr. and Mrs. J. HAROLD RODDY, '33, a daughter, Maureen Mary, January 22. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN O'CONNOR, '38, a daughter, Kathleen Mary, February 16. 
"•4^Pkr! 
-Mr. and .Mrs. DANIEL P. FALSIONI, '39, a daughter, Paula Jane. October 29. .Mr. and Mrs. WALTER J. GEREND, '39, a daughter, Betty Frances. September 21. Mr. and .Mrs. MAURICE F. STAUDER, '41, a son, Paul, December 3. ilr. and Mrs. EUGENE A. FEHLIG, '43, a son, Jeffrey Eugene, January- 21. Mr. and .Mrs. J. H. FINN, JR., '43, a son, Dan Kevin, February- 8. Mr. and Mis. WILLIAM B. MIDDENDORF, '43, a daughter, Nanc-y Jane, Februa'-\- 4. Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES POINSATTE, '47, a son, John Paul, April 12. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. AHENS, '48, a son, Eric Francis, September 30. Mr. and -Mrs. ROY B. LAUGHLIN, '48, a daughter, Mary Helen, January 12. Mr. and Mrs. LVWRENCE TURNER, '48, a son, Lawrence Edward, December 23. Dr. and Mrs. JOHN B. FR.-\NKEL, '49, a daughter, Gcorgina Elizabeth, February 16, .Mr. and -Mrs. EDWARD D. McCARTHY, '30, a son, Edward Michael, December 17. Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND E. .McGR,\TH, '30. a son, Ray-mond, G., September 8 Dr. and Mrs. JAMES E. McMEEL, a daughter, March 30. Mr. and Mis. PAUL J. SHEEDY, '30, twin sons, March 16. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES E. SMITH, '50, a son, Duane Patrick, January- 9. Mr. and Mrs. F. JEROME S\VEENEY, '50, a son, Michael Francis, March 30. -Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND J. WATSON, '50, a son, Patrick Joseph, Januar>- 30. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH GALLOWAY, '51, a son, Stephen Francis, March 21. Mr. and Mn. EDWARD XIE.-\GHER, '51, a son, Pa-jl Francis, Fcbruar)- 22. -Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS H. COUGHLIN, '52, a son. Dean Alan, December 9. ilr. and Mrs. ROBERT K. GORDON, JR., '52, a son, Robert Kilian III, February 7. Capt. and Mrs. F. R. SCHLIEHTING, '52, a son, Frederick James, February 21. Mr. and Mrs. VIRGIL VOSS, '52, a daughter, Katherine Ann, January- 29. Mr. and Mrs. NEIL E. BUTLER, '53, a daughter, Sharon Kathleen, May I, 1937. Mr. and Mrs. JACK DILENSCHNEIDER, '53, a son, Charles Theodore, March 6. Mr. and Mrs, PATRICK J. MONTROY, '53, a son, Patrick J., Jr., February- 11. -Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN D. ^VHEL,\N, '33, a son. Daniel Joseph, February- 23. -Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT D.WIDSON, '54, a son, Christopher Robert, March 18. 1st Lt. and .Mrs. WILLIAM FLICK, '54, a son, David Alan, December 27. Mr. and Mrs. HERMAN L. KRIEGSHAUSER, *>4, a son, Douglas Eugene, February 20. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT GERVAIS, '33, a daughter, Kathleen Anne, March 6. Mr. and Mrs. CARL F. PETERS, '35, a daughter, Kathleen Ann, December 28. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH N. BOSSE, '57, a son, Joseph Napoleon, Jr., April 15. Mr. and Mrs. JACOB W. KIEFER, '57, a daughter, Kathleen Marie, >Iarch 21. 
Deaths 
FROST THORNE, 'W, of Fort ^Vorth, Texas, died December 13, 1951, according to information Just received in the Alumni OfEcc. His daughter survives. 
BURTON W. OLIVER, '95, of Kalamazoo, Mich.,' died in 1957, according to word just received in the Alumni Office. 
REV. JOHN F. McSHANE, '97, died April 10 in Indianapolis. He had been chaplain o! the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis for many years. 

Bend, Ind., April 8. Before his retirement in 1952 he had spent 47 years as a pastor in the Peoria, III,, diocese. He was bom in Poznan, Poland, ia 1881 and celebrated his golden jubilee in the priesthood in St. Hedwige's Church, South Bend. He is sur\-ivcd by three sisters. 
DANIEL L. MURPHY, '05, died April 11 io Peoria, III. He had practiced law only a few years, farmed and in late years was an Inspector of public accounts for the State of Illinois. He is survived by his widow, two sons, two daughters and several brothers and sisters. 
THO-MAS P. BUTLER, '07, of Pittsburgh, Pa., died January 29, according to Information received in the Alumni Office. 
REV. OSCAR R. HENTGES, C.S.C., '11, died April 21 at the Community Infirmary. He was a faculty member at the University of Portland, had served earlier at St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas. 
EDMOND H. SAVORD, '12, died December 20, 1957, in Sandusky Ohio, according to word just received la the Alumni Office. He had practiced law ia Sandusky since graduation, ser\Td as city solicitor, Erie County common picas judge, judge of the Ohio Sixth District Court of Appeals and director of the Ohio securities division. He u survived by two sons, John E., '40, and Joseph G., '44. 
FREDERIC M. GILBOUGH, JR., *13, died March 25 in Dallas, Texas, after a long illness. He was retired, having served for 35 years as tax commissioner for the MKT Railroad. He is sur­rivcd by his widow and t^vo sisters. 
REV. FRANCIS X. LUZNY, '13, died March 2 in the rectory of Holy Trinity Church, Chicago, where he was assistant pastor. Previously he had been pastor of St. Hedwige's Church, South Bend. His brother survi\*es. 
THOMAS J. WALSH, '14, died December 24. 1957, in Htmtingtoa Park, Calif., according to word just received in the Alumni Office. His widow survives, 
ERNEST P. LA JOIE, '13, died January 30 in Crosse Pointc, Mich. A Detroit civil service com­missioner and circuit court judge at 31, he later became associated with the Old Newsboys charity, told its history in a book, "The Story of the Goodfellows." He helped found and was a president of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit. Sur\'iving are his widow, two sons and a daughter. 
JOSEPH .McLOUGHLIN, '16, known in South Bend as "Irish Joe," died February 19 aboard slilp at Bremerhavcn, Germany, en route to visit his native Ireland. He Is survived by his widow, his mother and a sister. 
XIAURICE DONNELLY, '17, died April 7 in Indianapolis. He is sur\*Ivcd by a daughter and five sisters. 
SISTER M. MONICA (M.AGINNIS), OJS.U., '20, died February 27 in the UrsuIIne Convent of the Immaculate Heart oE Mary, St. Martin, Ohio. She received an M.A. and Ph.D. in summer school at the University. 
OSCAR L. SIDENFADEN, '20. died of a heart attack February 27 in Los Angeles, Calif. He was 
•a brother of William R. Sidenfaden, '29, Is also survived by his widow, two sons and a daughter. 
DR. HARRY M. DOYLE, '21. assodate pro­fessor of history at Boston College, died January 19 In Cambridge, Mass. He had also taught at Notre Dame, the University of Texas and Indiana State University and lectured at several eastern colleges. 
STEPHEN F. NYIKOS, '21, died April 4 in Gary, Ind. He was interred In Detroit, Mich. Among the survivors are his widow and a brother, Joseph W., '23. 
EDWARD L. COCHR.ANE, '22, died January 3 in Seattle, Wash. He was an attorney and former state legislator. A son and brother surrive. 
MICHAEL G. KANE, '23, died December 26 ia Springfield, Mass. Among the siir%-ivors are his widow, t»vo daughters and four brothers. 
FRANK R. CAHILL, '24, of Louisvflle, Ky., died in Januury, according to word rcc«ved in the Alumni Office. His widow sur^ves. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May^June, 1958 35 
CHARLES E. DE LA \^RG\E, '25, of New 

Orleans, La., died February 1. Amons the sur­
vivors are his widow and a brother, Jules K., *33, 
a director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
NLVRTIN F. SULLFV^AN, SR., '25, of Louisvnic, 

Ky., died in January accordinc^ to information 
received at the Alumni OHice. Hts widow survives. 
CHARLES A. CANTAV'ELL, '26, died September 

1, 1956, according to word just received at the 
Alumni Office. A brother survives. 
JOHN J. DE\TREUX, '26, died January 21 in 

Chicago, III. His widow survives. 
GEORGE F. HARTNETT, *26, died of a heart 

attack April 21 in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He had 
operated a commodity brokerage firm in Chicago 
and was buried April 25 in Wnnctka, III. Surviving 
arc his widow, a son and one grandchild. 
^LARTIN J. ("BRUFF") CLEARY, '28, sports 

figure and former State Senator, died in his Fort 
Wa>-ne, Ind., home April 3. He was well known 
as a boxing promoter. Big Ten athletic official and 
professional basd)all umpire. He operated a travel 
bureau and died upon returning from a high scliool 
tour of New York and Washington. 
MICHAEL J. CUNNINGHAM, '29, of Los 

Angeles, Calif., died January 17, according to 
information received at the Alumni Office. 
^\^LLUM S. O'CONNOR, '29, died April 1 

in Indianapolis, Ind. Surviving arc his widow, ttvo 
daughters, his mother, three sisters and four 
brothers, including Thomas J., '32, and John C , 
'38, a member of the national Alumni Board. 
DENNIS J. SHANAHxVN, '30, died Februan' 

12 in Ellenville, N. Y. He was president of 
Shanahan Construction Co. and a director of local 
banks. Surviving are two brothers and a sister. 
DANIEL G. SULLI\^/\N, *30, died April 16 in 

Wcllcsley, Mass. HT. was sales manager of Electro­
iux Corp. Among the survivors are his widow, 
two daughters, a brother and sister. 
E.MIL L. TELFEL, '31, associate professor of journalism at Kansas University, died March 24 in Lawrence, Kansas. He had taught at several colleges and universities, including Loyola Univcr­sit>- of the South, New Orleans, La., where he had been chairman of the journalism department. He was bom in Budapest, Hungarv', and worked on many newspapers and public relations assignments. Surviving are his mother, his widow and a sister. 
LEO P. FAGAN, '32, of Tulsa, Okia,, died sud­denly January 26. His widow survives. 
GENERAL CH.\RLES D. JONES, *32, deputy director of legislative liaison for the Air Force, was killed Januarv* 25 when his B-57 jet bombct fell in Chesapeake Bay near Prince Frederick, Md., He had been Air Force Chief of Staff for Nortliern Europe rnd held many decorations for his service in World War 11, daring which he had been captured and wounded twice on bombing missions. His widow and two children survive. 
A. DA_\1D NEAL, '33, died in Kankakee, 111., March 25, after an extended illness. He was plant manager of the David Bradlcj* Mfg. Co. and a former officer of the Notre Dame Club of Kankakee Valley. Surviving are his parents, his widow, a sister, a daughter and two sons. Including David, a student at the University. 
JAMES P. CLEARY, '40, died March 24 in Detroit, Midi. He was president of two companies manufacturing automobile parts and a director of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit. Survivors in­clude his widov\-, two sons, a daughter, his mother and tlirce brothers. 
W1LLL\M A. PFISTER, '47, of Michigan City, Ind., died September 15, 1957, according to word just received at the Alumni Office. His widow survives. 
JANIES E. KEN-NEDY, '49, of Esihervillc, Iowa, died in 1954, according to information just received at the Alumni Ofiice. He is survived by Ins widow. 
LT. JAMES E. McMAHON, '50, of Coronado, Calif., was killed April 5 when his navy plane crashed in Northern California. 
LT. (J.G.) JOSEPH R. JURICIC, '54 was killed Septembei 26, 1957, in a carrier landing mishap iu the Mediterranean, according to information just received in th- Alumni Office. Surviving arc his widow and child, his parents, a brother and two sisters. 
Sympathy 

ROBERT D., '04, and J. GORDON MURPHY, *37, on the death of their wife and mother, January 30. 
36 Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June, 1958 
REV. HENRY GLUECKERT, C.S.C., '16, on 
the death of his mother, February 2. 
JOHN E. CASSIDY, '17, on the death of his 
wife, Febniary 6. 
PROF. GILBERT COTY, '25, on the death of 
his wife in ^fa^:h. 
JOHN W., '25, and WILLIAM A. HILLEN­
BRAND, '27, on the death of their father, March 
U. 
JOSEPH L. SWEENEY, '27, on the death of 
his wife, February 12. 
JOSEPH T. DeBOTT, '28, on the death of his 
mother, March 26. 
J. HAR\'EY DALY, '29, on the death of his mother, January 29. REV. THEODORE J. MEHLING, C.S.C., '29, on the death of his father in January. 
HOWARD J., '» , and JOHN A. GILLESPIE, '37 on the death of their father, February 20. 
6 . DONALD HERRON, 'J4, on the death of his father iu January-. . , . , EDMUND KOWALSKI, '38, on the death of his mother in January-. JOSEPH L. MCDONALD, JR., '39, on the death of his mother, December 26. ARTHUR W., '« , and ROBERT E. FELTES, '49, on the death of their father in April. JOHN T. RUMBACH, '45, on the death of his father, January 23. 
CHARLES P., '45, and REV. THOMAS J. SCHWTNN, '54, on !he death of their mother, March 7. 
THOMAS L. DOUT), '49, on tlic death of his father, January 29. JOHN V. RANDALL, '49, on the death of his fatlier. 
1905 
Mrs. Leo Fcehan, Odell, 111., sister of recently departed DANIEL L. MURPHY, had some notes on her late brother in a letter to the Alumni Ofiice. She wrote: "Dan . . . was president of his (Law School) class. His nickname was "Sox," short for Socrates, for he vv"as a talented speaker. I can remember some of his classmates were ED\VARD SCH\VAB, THOMAS WELCH and EARL GRU­BER, and COL. HOYNES was dean of the Law Scliool. Dan and two others attended the golden jubilee of his class in 1955. He played on the Varsity football team, and I understand that he was one of the oldest living lettcrmen. He dearly loved Notre Dame, and I did too!" 
PUERTO RICO — Juan Cintron, former president of the Notre Dame Club of Puerto Rico, and his son John, now residing in South Bend, place a wreath at the grave of Knutc Rockne on behalf of the Puerto Rico Club after the St Joe Valley Club*s annual Rockne Communion BrcaHast March 30. 
1907 
WILLIAM A. "BILL" DAUNT was a surprised and delighted guest-of-honor at a reception and cocktail-hour dance given in honor of his 50th an­niversary as a Notre Dame alumnus by the Lang Island Di\ision of the Notre Dame Club of !T«w York. Bill ^vas feted February 9 at tlie Garden CSty Hotel on Long Island and received many letters and telegrams with the heartfelt absentee wishes of Governor Avcrell Harriman, Father Hcsburgh and other friends in New York, on campus and through­out the land. 
ivsunion. jMnc6-7-9 
'Ob ^ 

1910 
BILL SCHMITT, on a jaunt through Alaska by bush plane and dogslcd before the dust had settled from the Rose Bowl game and his recent world tour, sent a card from Kotzcbue, en route to Nome: "Lots of ice and snow, and it's cold, but I like it " 
1912 B-J-Kaiser Alfred D. Rcid Associates 
324 Fourth Avenue 
Pittsburgh 22, Pa. 

1913 Paul R. Byrne Box 46 Notre Dame, Indiana 
191 4 ^°" O'Neill 
• ' • 1350 No. Black Oak Dr. 
South Bend 17, Indiana 

Nuovo Bambino 2 Kilos 26 Jan. Joan is Fine. Tliis cabled message awakened CECIL E. BIRDER, '14, before dawn a few weeks ago to let him know his grandchildren now total ten. Joan is Cyd's eldest daughter; married to Lt. Col. T. J. ^[ichel, and no^v* Ii\ing in Naples. The new S-pound boy is her seventh child. 
Cyd's other grandchildren arc the three sons of his son, DUDLEY BIRDER who received his Mas­ter's Degree from Notre Dame in 1951, and who is now working toward his Doctorate at the Uni­versity of Minnesota. 
It may be **news" to some of '14 to know that feminine roles in the student plays in Washington Hall are now played by girls from St. Mary's. The%' do a ^vondcrful job, but as we watch them they seem to lack something of the dedicated en­thusiasm of the Juliets, Lady ^facBeths and Cor­delias as played, in our day, by CECIL BIRDER, FRED GUSHURST, BILLY RYAN, and the be­loved KNUTE ROCKNE! 
In your charity, remember the soul of our class­mate THOMAS J. WALSH, who died at Hunting­ton Park, California, on Christmas eve. 
That's the news—a birth and a death, the be­ginning and the end of God's great mystery of life. Other things are happening, in between, to us of '14. You can read and knoiv about them if you'll just drop a postcard or note to your secretary con­cerning the doings of any man of the great class of 1914. 
I O l C James E. Sanford 
1429 W. Farragut Avenue 
Chicago 40, Illinois 

Declaring that the nation was fxinfronted with "a migration from within" because of its shifting population, DR. GEORGE N. SHUSTER, '13, pres­ident of Hunter CoUcge, addressing a recent Com­munion breakfast of 500 Saks Fifth Avenue em­ployees in New York, called for a "sense of solidar­ity" to help build community life. 
The honorable RAYMOND J. KELLY, U. S. District Judge in Juneau, Alaska, has been keeping in close touch with GOV. .MIKE STEPOVICH, '43, and other locals, has seen the N.D. football highlights brought by WILLIAM C. SCHMITT, '10, on a Portland Chamber of Commerce junket through the territory-. 
1916 Grover F. Miller 
612 Wisconsin Avenue 
Racine, Wisconsin 
1917 Edward J. McOsker ' ' 2205 Brianvood Road Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio 
DAN HILGARTNER has retired after more than forty years in the advertising department of the Chicago Tribune. Dan now has a home in the Forest Springs section of Harbert, Michigan. 
JIMMY PHEL.VN has been installed in the Helms Athletic Foundation Hall ol Fame along with another football great, SLIP MADIGAN, '20, of Oakland, Calif. 
Reunion June6-f-& 
CLASS
'15 
1918 <J^corge £. Harbert 
• ' • *' Rm. 500, Rock Island Bank BIdg. Rock Island, Illinois 
We extend our sympathy to Mrs. George A. Schock whose husband passed away on November 27, 1957. GEORGE SCHOCK received his LL.B. from Notre Dame in 1918 and was engaged in the practice of law in South Bend since his graduation. Throughout his life he w*as active in Civic afTairs ­and his passing will be missed by the many friends and business associates with whom he came in con­tact. Mav his soul rest in peace. 
THIS IS THE YEAR—June 6th, 7th and 8th will mark our 40lh anniversary. Believe me, when I get out of bed in the morning I know I am getting no younger fast. Let's make it a good reunion. 
First returns are already coming in: JOHN LEIM­MER, FATHER WILLIAMS and many others are going to be there. How about you? 
JIM SWEENEY, who is managing the Faust Hotel in Rockford, Illinois, tells us that JUDGE ALBERT O'SULLIVAN comes in occasionally to clicw the fat. Hope both of you can make the reunion. 
LOUIS A. HELLERT, LL.B., 1918, still clings to the West Coast. He lives at 4^09 N. Williamctic Blvd., Portland, Oregon, and has the latch string out to any of his classmates who are visiting Port­land. 
Sec you in June. 
|010 Theodore C. Rademakcr Peru Foundrj- Company Peru, Indiana 
192 0 J^""*^ H- Ryan 
107 Magee Avenue Rochester 13, New York 
OSaVR SIDENFADEN, of 1320 Hauser Street, South Los Angeles, died February 27, 1958. To Mrs. Sidcnfadcn and members of our class he will be remembered as one of Notre Dame's noble gentlemen. 
REV. JAMES J. RY.\N, C.S.C., one of the fine seminarians of our class if you u-ill recall, wrote poems that found their way to the pages of the Scholastic time and time again. I often received credit for them. An exceptional English student in our day, I am sure he prepares sermons today that you would enjoy. He is in Kalamazoo now, Chap-Iain to the Sisters of St. Joseph at Nazareth. 
LEO WARD, I am told, is not in the best of 

PITTSBURGH—Communion Breakfast for the Pittsburgh Club followed Mass in the Eastern Rite at SS. Cyril and Methodius Byzantine Seminary with 49 in attcndxmce. 
health. I am sure he keeps his keen interest in of CYRIL GAFFNEY, our classmate who was prom­Notre Dame and especially in the men of 1920. inent in Connecticut legal circles, and keeps us Write to him. well informed on the doings of their husky sons 
Bernard and Brian, both in law school. 1921 Dan W.Duffy We arc very tardy in sending our best wishes to Mr. and Mrs. J.\CK T. HIGGINS of 400 To^yn­
• ' ^ • HOI N.B.C. Building 

send Street, Birmingham, Mich., who were married Cleveland 14, Ohio December 27, 1956. Our society editors should be *Mustcd ofF' for their tardiness on that one. At 
For "outstanding service to industry and to the any rate, we rejoice with Margaretta and Jack, and people of British Columbia" HAROLD S. FOLEY, wish them much happiness. 

board chairman of the Powell River Company, Van­LAWRENCE T. (BUCK) SHAlV, who has been couver, received an honorary LL.D. from the Uni­head football coach at the Air Force Academy, versity of British Columbia, and, along with Ca­Colorado Springs, Colo., since January 1, 1956, re* nadian Prime Minister John Diefenbaker, another signed his position in late January and very shortly honorary degree from St. Mary's University, Hali­thereafter signed to coach the professional Phila­fax, for "outstanding assistance to Hungarian stu­delphia Eagles football team. This is Buck's second dents." 
venture among the professionals, for previously he 
BILL ALLEN wrote regarding the promotion of had been affiliated with the San Francisco *49cr3 DR. JOHN MOHARDT, '22, by the V.A. in before going to the A. F. Academy. In addition to Washington, D. C, added: "I sec GEORGE his ser\'icc with the pro footballers. Buck coached WITTERIED frequently. He is in excellent health at North Carolina State, Ne\'ada, and the Univer­and taker, good care of himself. NORM BARRY is sity of California, and his teams at Santa Clara slated for election as honorary president of the were outstandingly good before that institution dis­
Notre Dame Club of Chicago at our annual dinner continued football during World War IL Also on April 21." Shaw-coached West teams in the annual Shrine foot­ball classic held in San Francisco have enjoyed fine success. We wish Buck lots of success at Phila­
1922 ^*=^*i A-^^^ delphia. 39 Cambridge Street 
VINCE HANiLVH.AN stated in a Christmas note Rochester 7, New York that he saw Buck in Washington last fall at the George ^Vashington -Air Force Academy football 
M.-VSS FUND game. It was their first meeting in 35 years. 

(Ed. Note: The Editor has been asked to STEVE CARMODY bemoans the fact that he suggest to the Class of 1922 that contribu­was obliged to miss our 35th Anniversary Reunion tions for Class Masses be sent to Dr. 
last June. It seems that Steve was at N.D. on the Matthew Wcis, 7379 Northmoor, St. Louis 
week previous to see his son Thomas P. receive his 5, Mo.. Class Treasurer. Tlie Class Secre­
degree in law. The son is now practicing in MIKE tary has been willingly arranging the Afasses 
SEYFRIT's old law office in CarlinWlle, Illinois. 
without a Mass Fund, but others of the Your secretary was a bit hasty in directing one Class would prefer to make this a Class of our beloved class chaplains to turn in his uniform Fund project. The usual Mass stipend is 
for failure to show at our class reunion. F.ATHER five dollars, and the Fund need not be 
PAT H/\GGERTY, C.S.C, writes from Holy Cross large.) 
High School at New Orleans: **Sorry to disappoint you last June but I spent 17 days in the hospital from which I am now well 
MiiS Dorothy W. Clark, daughter of the widow recovered. I lost 20 pounds in the process and was of our classmate, the late U.S. Senator D. WORTH rather weak for quite a long period. Indeed I did CLARK of Idaho, was killed In' an auto accident get to N.D. after you all had departed. I am now last December near Gilroy, California, along with about as good as ever despite a recent bout with 
a fellow Stanford senior. Miss Nancy Harkcr. We arthritis which I beat. It is hard to keep an old tender our s>'mpathy and prayers to the families of horse down. I am now 75% years of age- Best the deceased. Mrs. Clark resides at 401 South Burn-wishes to all of your gang." side Avenue, apt. 21, Los Angeles 36, Calif. It is just wonderful to hear from you. Father 
Mrs. Phyllis Hcneghan of South Bend, widow of Fat. Vfe did miss you much and hope you are our beloved classmate GEORGE HENEGIL\N, blessed with many more happy years in God's 
writes to tell us of the death last August 14 of \*ineyard. FRED HENEGHAN, '32, George's only brother. From Indianapolis comes a fine letter from We extend our sincere sympathy and prayers to the Mildred Stuhldreher, ^Wdo\v- of one of our closest Hcncghans. classmate friends. She writes: 
Our best wishes go to Mr. and Mrs. Walter "You couldn't possibly know how much I ap­Sulliran of 99 Hickory Hill Road, New Britain, preciate hearing from such a good friend of Conn. They were married last September 18. ifrs. Walter's at Christmas—somehow It makes the Sulllx'an, whom we all know as Helen, is the widow twenty-fourth easier! 
Notre Dame AlumnuSj May-June, 2958 37 
**And I did so enjoy reading about your thirt^'­fifth reunion. VTith the three bo>'s alumni of Notre Dame I Hnd keeping track of the activities of the class of '22 very easy through the ALUMNUS. I alwa>*s enjoy >-our interesting column—and I shall alu-a>'s be tremendously interested. 
"\Vc were certainly busy witli graduation in June. 

The t\«ns received their ^^aster's degrees in Bus­
iness Administration at Indiana University, and 
Donald •M-as graduated from N.D. 
"In August I flew to Juneau, Alaska, for a visit of six weeks 'with our daughter and husband who are living there. Marge's husband is with Associated Press, and he was sent there to establish an A.P. bureau in Alaska. Tlicir closest friends are the governor and his •wife. Governor MIKE STEPO­VICH received his la^v degree at N.D. Another close friend—tlic head of the Democratic party in Alaska—was graduated from N.D. Too, the treas­urer of Alaska has a son who is presently a stu­dent at N.D. Though it was far ai\-ay, there was m'i3!i in common." 
A note from the DR. DAN SEXTONS of St. Louis gives the information that they made a fam­ily motor trip to the Na\'\' game. Tlicy had a pleas­ant visit with F.VTHER BOB SHEEHAN on the campus. Out of Wilmcttc, 111., came Christmas greetings from the FRANK \\\ CONNELLYS, also good neu-s that oiir class has another grandfather. 
MRS. CHARLES (PAT) HIRSCHBUHL spent this Christmas in Portland, Ore., for a change even though that city Is home to her. Just previously she had a wonderful visit with GERRY ANT) MARION JONES in San Mateo, Califomix Latter arc \Trj' happy in their new setting. Formerly they lived In Dixon, Illinois. 
Speaking of San Mateo, we must not forget to mention that MRS. CLETUS (GERTRUDE) LYNCH is a resident of the same cit>'. She lives at 10 Dc Sabia Road. Gertrude spent Christmas in her old home city of Peoria, III. 
EDDIE PFEIFFER of Louisville promises to visit the N.D. campus more frequently if he can get his son into N.D. next September. 
FATHER GEORGE FISCHER, C.S.C., writes: 
"'WliUe in Brooklyn in late November and early 

December on a Mission (Holy Cross Mission Band), 
I had a rait from JOHN (RED) HEFFERNAN 
who is a parishioner ^vhere we were working. He 
is an attorney with the Brooklyn division of the 
Appelate Court of N. Y. State. He looked fine. 
Getting ready to leave January 18 for two weeks 
at East 96th St., Manhattan. Thereafter I work In 
Jersey, Dcla\v-are and elsewhere before Easter. Hope' 
you are well. I have often lived over those wonder­
ful fe^v* hours of our reunion, and shall alu-ays be 
glad I made the trip to be there with the 01' 
Gang." 
HAROLD \\'EBER ^mtes this one: 
"I hope tills tardy card finds you in good health 
and in the state of grace. 
"Luc>* and I have just returned from a three month motor and air tour of Central and Southern Europe. VCc made the rounds of tlie Rhine coun­try, Southern Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Tangicrs, Greece, Istanbul and ndnity, Crete, Rhodes and then back to Rome, Naples and Florence, thence to Paris and home on the S.S. United States. We arrived in N. Y. on Dec. 3, and the next day wc experienced that wild sno\*"storm in N. Y. 
''•We were fortunate in having two audiences with His Holiness—one at Castel Gandolfo and the other at the Vatican. His Holiness looked vcr>- well and u-a*: \igorous in his speech and movements. 
*'It was a very enjoyable and stimulating trip, but we are happy to be home again. While in New York, Lucy learned that her fallier, age 87, was critically ill, so %rithln 24 hours of our homecoming Luc>' left for her father's home in Cannclton, Ind., and was with him during his last week. He died a very peaceful and prayerful death on December 15 (God rest his soul). 
"\Vc arc sorry you did not drive out to Diamond Lake last June with GEORGE KERVER and his friend. ^Vc had a very enjoyable afternoon. We had hoped more *22ers ivould spend the day with us, and we were overstocked with food and other 
LEHIGH VALLEY—Club obser\'ed Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner and dance Saturday, April 12, in the Sky Room of the Hotel Traylor, Allentown, Pa. A Holy Hour was held prior to the event at St Catherine of Siena Church, Allentown. Front row, left to right: Dr. hows T. Gabriel, retiring president and Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., as­socbte director, Notre Dame Foundation. Rear row, left to right: William F. Martin, dinner chairman; Leo R. Mclntyre, dub founder and area chairman, N.D. Foundation, who intro­duced principal speakers; Louis J. Wynne, retiring secretary; John S. MacCauIey, director. District Four, N.D. Foundation, and Thomas A, Lennon, president-dec^ Notre Dame Club of the Lehigh Valley. Father O'Donndl and MacCauley spoke; Dr. Gabrid and Lennon made brief remarks. 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 2958 
supplies. >Vc missed you and hope , that you will 
make amends by \-isIting us in the very early 
future.** 
The FORREST (FOD) COTTONS of Kansas 
City report five grandchildren. 
AL FICKS very kindly In^-ites us down to 
Phoenix, Ariz., for a golf game. ^Vhat did you do 
with my golf clubs, Hawkins? 
Do hope that CULLEN BURKE of Albany got 
over that Christmastime siege of flu he reported. 
The MARTIN BRENNANS of Buffalo report 
their No. 3 boy Tommy Is a right halfback on the 
Canislus High School varsity and, of course. Dad 
Brennan is correcting all the mistakes Tommy 
makes. Martin reports also that he and Geraldlne 
only have 21 years to go for their Golden Wedding 
anniversary. 
^Vc are very grateful to all who so kindly re­
membered us with Christmas greetings, and that In­
cludes all those already mentioned In this report. 
Other include: ARCHBISHOP J. F. O'HARA, 
C.S.C., FATHER THOMAS LAHEY, C.S.C, FA­
THER ROBERT SHEEHAN, C.S.C., FATHER 
NL\RCEL KELIHER of Omaha, ED GOTTRY, 
MORGAN SHEEDY, OLLIE SCHELL, MRS. 
CHARLES FOLEY, MRS. CLETUS LYNCH, 
MISS DOROTHY LYNCH; also the JIM JONES', 
JOE PARLEYS, TOM McCABES, GERALD "MID­
NIGHT" M U R P H Y S, RAY McGARRYS, 
CHARLIE CROWLEYS, HAROLD McKEES, 
WILFRED D^VYERS JACK HIGGINS*, JOHN 
PAUL CULLENS and JEROME DIXONS. 
Joyce Mary, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE * 
G. KERVER of Lakewood, Ohio, Avas married to James Joseph Dunn of the U. S. Army on Novem­ber 30 at St. James Church, Lakewood. We salute the newlyweds xnth our best ivishes, also the par­ents of the bride and groom. 
Mrs. Gertrude Foley, widow of CHARLES (CHUCK) FOLEY is liwng In Portland, Ore., with daughter Mary Ann who is trying hard for a Ful­bright scliolarship at the University of Portland. We hope she is successful in her quest. A second Charles Foley is married and lives In Seattle and has two fine sons, Christopher and Michael. 
Credit TON ASHE, *31, for arranging a nice '22 lunclicon at the Los Angeles Athletic Club on De­cember 27. Of course it was not intended to be exclusively for *22 men, but we did have a good representation present, including GENE KENNEDY, JIM McCABE, JUDGE AL SCOTT and your scc­relar>*. From other classes were such standouts as LEO WARD, ED ASHE and EDWARD (DOG) \VHITE. You may remember the latter as a foot­ball center under KNUTE ROCKNE. CLIPPER i, SMITH, anotlier grand football operator of ye olden days at N.D., almost got to the afTalr. 
REV. THONL^ M. FITZPATRICK. C.S.C., di­rector of the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Society, suggests a splendid spiritual bouquet for deceased relatives and friends is enrollment in the Holy Cross Purgatorial Society, Holy Cross Missions, Washington 17, D. C. In so doing, we greatly as­sist the priests In their mission work. 
reunion 
jMne6-7-B 
CLASS
'25 

1923 ^ ^ ^- Bruggner 
2165 Riverside Drive 
South Bend, Indiana 

As part of tlie maximum cfTort by the officers of the Class of '23 to bring out a full turnout of mem­bers for our 35th reunion next June, your Secretary is purposely writing tliese notes with some restraint. Long before this column meets your gaze, all the news It could hold plus much more will have reached the '23 men by means of tlie Sec*s yellow journal news letter. The correspondence and activities in preparation for our 35th has piled on my desk correspondence in \*olumc unprecedented in the 35 years we have been apart. 
Wliat Is uppermost In my mind Is to inWte on be­half of all the men who are officially "Skidoo Grad­uates,** all those men whom we consider one of us —the "old students, the deferred graduates of 1923­24, and the accelerated graduates of 1922-23—to "MAKE IT A DATE IN *58'* with us. I can't but hearken back to FOD COTTON'S letter of some months ago in which he suggested tliat al­though his sheepskin reads "the V day of August MCNIXXIV/* he still considers himself a member of the Class of '23 and wants to join our 33th on June 6-7-8, 1958. Various circumstances—sickness, finances, change in courses pursued, and similar unforeseen developments—separated many a man from the group who started out with us in the fall of 1919. 
We consider you one of us, even though policies of the Alumni Office cause you to be listed else­where than with us. Come join us— 
"MAKE IT A DATE IN '58." Send me a post cord at the address above. All particulars will go fonvard to you with alacrity. 
Death continues to dog our steps. Wc are report­ing with unusual regret the death of another class­mate, MICKEY KANE, who was found dead in his law office in Springfield, Mass., the day after Christ­mas, according to word relayed to this desk by JIM ARMSTRONG. Tliis brings to a total of 51 the number of known dead in our Class, and eight in two months. The previous issue of the ALUM­NUS, of course, carried word of the death of ED­WARD D. KELLY of Emmetsburg, Iowa, who was on our national Reunion committee, and who was cntiiusiastically beating the drums via U. S. Mail for our next reunion. More than one man, wc think, will be with us in June due to Ed's cx­
. hortations, but sadly enough, Ed will be greatly missed, as he was greatlv enjoyed at our 30th in 1953. 
Also among those departed is the name of RICH­ARD J. REYNOLDS, JR., who died about Nov. 25 in Long Beach, N. V. Dick was one of that group referred to above who left scliool before graduation but whom wc consider "one of us," e\Tn though his name is not on our roster. Tlie date of his death, although not official, is more nearly correct than the date of Dec. 13 ^ven in the last issue of the ALUMNUS. 
See you in June. "MAKE IT A DATE IN *58." From the Alumni Office: ARTHUR GARVEY is currently associated with 
an Illinois concern manufacturing parking meters and automatic machines. 
192 4 J^mes R. Mcchan 
• '^ ^ 329 So. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: HENRY M. PADDON, JR., is principal of the Highland School in Holyoke, Mass. TO.M GORDON is the assistant general sales manager of the Standard Oil Company in Chicago. 
192 B John p. Hurley I #&w 2085 Brookdale Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
Word came from the Alumni Office of three deaths in the past few weeks. Your secretary has no details on these classmates other than the time of their passing. 
CHARLES E. DE L/\. VERGNE of 472 Walnut. New Orleans, Louisiana. Charlie died on Fcbruarj' 1, 1938. This was certainly a shock to me as Charlie and I not only went through our four years of college but we were in prep school at Notre Dame. It is indeed strange that within a week after hearing about Charlie, I received word about another pal of our prep school da>'s, MARTIN F. SULLIV/VN, SR., of 1825 Spring Drive, Louis\-ille, Kentucky. To both their widows I want to express our sincere sjinpathy on the death of their beloved husbands. I am sure they may be comforted in knowing that HENRY WURZER our class treas­urer has arranged to have a High Mass offered for them . . . from the Mass Fund of the Class of 1925. Mrs. GILBERT COTY the xvlfe of Prof. GILBERT COT^% Ph. BFC, '23, died in March, 1938. Gil is still teaching at the University, and his address is 417 Napoleon Blvd. ^Vhen we hear about these deaths. Hank arranges for the Mass and writes to the ividow. In case you ever hear about any of our classmates dying, be sure to notify JIM ARMSTRONG at once because REV. THOM­AS J. O'DONNELL C.S.C., assodate director of the Notre Dame Foundation, offers a Mass for the deceased members of alumni families on the first Saturday of every month. 
TERRY BRENNAN and his able assistants have been working with the "Fighting Irish'* during Spring Training. Next Fall will be a tough one for the Irish, and the best game at Notre Dame will be Army on October 11th. It is a date you 23er3 must remember. ^Ye will have our annual reunion 
THOMAS H. O'CONNOR, '16 
When the Notre Dame Club of Roches­
ter, N. Y., named Tom O'Connor as 1957 
Notre Dame Man of the Year, Rev. Theo­
dore Hesburgh, C.S.G., was on hand to join 
in 'the applause. Such honors have been 
coming thick and fast for Tom as he ap­
proaches his 35th year with the Catholic 
press. 
News editor of the Catholic Courier 
Journal, ofHcial weekly of the Rochester 
Diocese, Tom was recenUy honored by the 
staff for 25 years on the paper. Having 
started as manager of the Rochester Echo 
in 1924, he was hailed at a Silver Jubilee 
testimonial dinner by Bishop James E. 
Kearney and several Catholic editors in 
1949, and in 1950 he was awarded the 
Monroe County Catholic War Veterans 
Medal as "Outstanding Catholic La>*man" 
at a Communion Breakfast with Bishop 
Kearney present. Tom has witnessed the 
growth of the Catholic press from the days 
of delayed paychecks to a day when diocesan 
press runs are well over 50,000. 
A K. of C. member for 40 years, 29 of them as an officer, he is past grand knight of the Rochester Council and a past grand scribe in the Order of .-Mhambra. For more than 30 years he has edited newspapers and written publicity for the Knights of Colum-. bus and St. John, Alhambra, Catholic Cen­tral Vcrcin, Rochester N.D. Club, etc. 
Tom went to Notre Dame with Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., ser\-ed as a ser­geant in 1918, was once lost for days in the Florida Everglades while on an aerial photographic mission. His six sons, three married, have followed in their dad's foot­steps. Three have been in the Navy, three in the -Army: one is now in Germany; the two oldest boys are in the publishing field. . \ daughter is a freshman at Nazareth Col­lege. 
cocktail part>- after the Army game in the same ifahogany Room in Morris Inn. So many fellou-s tell me we don't let them know early enough. This is the date bo>-s, so ORDER YOUR TICKETS EARLY. 
Whenever there is a shortage of news we go back 
lo that questionnaire information and continue cov­erage on felloH's whom we haven't told you about as yet. WALTER D. HALL of 4119 Pillsbury Ave. Minneapolis, Minn., is credit manager of Red O^vl Stores, Inc. He has a wonderful family of six children: Mary Jeanne, 24; Charles, 22; Michael. 20; Kathleen, 17; Thomas, 15. and Jerry, 13. Walt writes "Everything is going quite ^vclI with me John. Still enjoying good health, and raising a family of six has kept me busy. Charlie, the oldest boy is still in Major Sem in St. Paul. Maybe Tom or Jerry will reach Notre Dame when they are ready. I hope to see you and the rest of our '25ers at the next reunion.'* Great, Walt . . . that's October Hth after that Army game this fall. TOM 
F. CARFAGNO, 601 E. Middle St., Hanover, Pa., writes that he has three daughters. "I do drop in to see JIM ARMSTRONG about tm'ce a year. I travel around the country quite a bit but I don't seem to run into many in our ciass. I have seen RIP MIL!LER on the train occasionally. I see FRANK McSORLEY at NJ). meetings in Pitts­burgh. I called *BUGS' WALTHER sometime ago in Xe\v York and had a nice chat." JOHN A. YUNG writes that he is retired but was formerly a lawyer. He's living in Jasmine Hill Rd., We­tumpka, Alabama. He sees LEN HESS and BILL DIELMANN in San Antonio, Texas, occasionally. John said he would like to hear from BILL HUR­LEY. DICK FUITE of Bolinas Rd., Fairfax, Cal.. is a manufacturer's agent. Inez his wlic was one of the original and first group of eight Airline stewardesses of United Air Lines in 1930. Dick writes "I am not in the spotlight but doing fine. I'm the boss both at home and at the office and my only worry is keep the weight down." He sees ANDY McMULLEN, who is manager of National Cash Register Co. in San Francisco. He would like to hear from LES DAVEY, TOM GOSS and CHARLIE DE LA VERGNE. As you have read in the first part of this coltmin, Charlie died last month. I know you and the rest of tlie '25er5 will remember him in your prayers. £D^VARD "OATS" 
G. BYRNES of 505 Egerton Place, Pittsburgh, Penna., has four children: Katherine, 26; Ann, 24; Sally. 22. and Edward. 17. He is president of Byrnes St Kiefcr Co. He sees the Pittsburgh fel­lows FRANK McSORLEY, HARRY STUHL­DREHER and AL DASCHBACH. Ed, it u-as good hearing from you . . . come again with more news and be on deck this fall. ROBERT M. WORTH, Route 2. Greenville, Ohio, is a sales executi%'e of Electric Auto Lite Co., of Toledo, Ohio. Bob has sLx children: Dorothy, M.D., 27; Alice Worth Mur­ray, 23; Sister Mary Grace, O.S.U. (Elizabeth Ann). 21; Patricia, 19; Ruth, 18, and Bob. Jr., 14. Bob writes "The four children went to Marquette and Dot went to St. Louis for her M.D. Ruth is at M.U. since NJ). is not co-ed. Butch, the only 
N.D. prospect, is at present planning on 'Police School*." Bob, maybe one of these days we will catch up with each other but it's hard getting these traveling men together. AVhen I am near your home during the week you are on the road - and rice versa. WILUAM E. VOOR, 1602 Devon Circle, South Bend, is a lawyer. Bill has three children, Marjorie Ann, Mary Louise and William E.. Jr. Bill writes that he would like to hear from "any Notre Dame man and particularly those who have a million or better estates and need some 'classy* estate plaiming. Any N.D. man in the 'clink* ^vtth two bucks or more. There's nothing much to tell except I*m going nuts trying to sat­isfy these cookies who call during the week of a game and say 'Get me six tickets and a hotel room, etc, etc*." Well, Bill, it's Army this year, so just tell them to come out to Morris Inn and see the game on T.V. and then Join our party on Oct. ilth . . . it's as simple as that. 
BERNARD W. LEY is in Real Estate-Mortgage & Insurance in Akron, Ohio, fiemie is president of Heminger-Ritsman Co. and will complete thirty years in the real estate field in Akron. Bemie u'as selected "The Akron Realtor of the year for 1956" by the Akron Real Estate Board. Belated con­gratulations, Bemie—it was swell hearing from you. JOHN MONAGHAN. 335 19th St., S.E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa, is the owner of Acousticon of Cedar Rapids. John has two daughters. Mrs. Richard Seeger and Mary Fae, both of Cedar Rapids. John has for eighteen years owned his own business and engaged in the sales and service of Acousticon Hearing Aids. Well John, it was "good hearing*' from you . . Iet*s have an encore. MAURICE WEBER, Six Peoples State Bank Bldg.. St. Joseph. Michigan. Attorney at Law. Maurice G., 25, was graduated from St. Joseph's College after three years in A.S.A. Sybil, 21, senior at Marquette; Michael, 19, Holy Ghost Missionary Seminary, and 

Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 39 
Susan, 11, at home. Our own class didn't have many vocations, but we certainly have a lot of vocations amoni? the cliildren of the members of the Class of 1925. JOSEPH W, McOVRTHY of 1401 Chestnut Su, .\lemcda, Cal., writes "1 U"ant to thank you for your scr\'ices to the Class of *23 all these years, John." Joe is retired but before he decided to take it easy he was in the restaurant business, banking, shipyard work and the account­ing section of Dcpt. of Motor Vehicles. He plans to move down to t-ong Beacli. Well, Joe, you picked a good part of the country in which to live and retire. When you aren't doing anything say a fe%\* prayers for the classmates Avho can*t come back to an earthly reunion. Don't forget our Mass Fund, fellows. Mail your offering to Hank Wurzer, Blackhawk Hotels Inc., Davenport, Iowa. GIL­BERT E. UHL, 3612 X. Drexcl Ave., Indianapolis, Indiana, has a married son, J. Robert, living in Detroit ana a married daughter, Mrs. Joseph W. FoDtona, Jr., who lives in Miami, Fla. Gil is with Standard Oil and was transferred from South Bend to Indianapolis not too long ago. JOSEPH M. HAGERTY, 312 19th St., Bessemer, Ala., is in engineering and equipment, and he owns a drug store. He writes to tell HERB JONES and JIM ARMSTRONG "hello" as well as BEN RESTING there in Toledo. Joe writes: **I spent three years after graduation at M.LT. in electrical. I was listed as 'unknown' till 1955 reunion. Eleven years in utilities from pillar to post through Central and South and then back here (my home) when I entered private business. Three years '\"acatioa' in the Xax-y during the War. I am now sorry I lost 
contact those thirty years. How the old school has changed. Best wishes for all of 1925." Thanks, Joe, come back to K.D. often and make up for lost time. PAUL HOEFFLER, 230 Spencer Ave., East GreenMch, R, I., has been in life insurance 29 years. He has a son "Buck>-," 20. Paul hasn't been back to school in over 15 years. He writes: *'It is always enjoyable to read the *25 news in the ALUMNUS . . . finding the latest on the oldsters who were youngsters 33 years ago. I hope you can always have the page filled, John. We are all well and remember our almost tu-o years with your active gang in Toledo. Good luck!" Just like old times, Paul . . . xvhcnever I look up that policy you sold me .. . I realize its been a long, long time. Better get back this fall. GEORGE F. FITZGERALD, 41 N. American St., ^Voodbury, N. J., is a Chemical Engineer for Socony Mobil Oil Co., Inc. He has a wife and one daughter, Ellen, 14 vears of age. George writes that he would like to hear from CLARENCE KAISER, SEB MILLER and TOM LOFTUS as well as NICK POLHAUS, CLARENCE BUNCE and GEORGE LUDWIG. *'Socony plant in Olcan was shut down and I was transferred to the Paulsboro plant. There are three or four N.D. men in the plant but no club activities outside of Camden and Phila., which arc a little inconvenient," CHANCIE L. SNTDER, Silver City, New Mexico, is in general insurance. His family consists of ^fildred, his wife, and Lee E. Snyder and Leona ^I., a daughter. Chandc writes: *'I liavc been acdve in Boy Scouts and Game Protective Assn. here in New Mexico. I was honored by the Boy Scouts by being awarded the Silver Beaver Award a few years ago. I have been president of the New Mexico State Game Protective Assn. which is affiliated with the National 
•Wildlife Federation." Nice going, Chanac . . . leave tliosc bo>'5 for a few da>*s and come up for that reunion October 11th. ^Vc will all be glad to see you. 
I have had this secretary job over a quarter of a century but this is the first time I ever received a long wire that just made the "deadline" .. . it came today from Bata\ia, New York. Right you arc, from "JUDGE" LARRY CASEY. "Dear John, I certainly enjoyed your contents of the class of '25 Notre Dame Alumnus news. Say hello to the gang and tell them to take it easy, the sun is setting in the West for the rest of us, as I note FRANK Mca\RTHY*S death \vas very untimely. Tell HANTC WTJRZER of the Black Hawk Hotel chain that I will .-eciprocate in the Masses. Con­gratulations to TOM BARRY, ARCHBISHOP 0'HARA*S nephew as Tom was one of my favorite boys. Best regards to JIM ARMSTRONG and a Happy March 17th. I think it is St. Patrick's Day. Soberly yours, Lar«-y Casey, Atty, at Large, 110 Main St., Batavia, N^w York." Thanks a million, Larry, and let's keep those prayers and Masses coming for the '25ers. In case you don't already know .. . in addition to the High Masses for each member wc arc having a Mass said evcrj- month. 
JOE TOOLIN of Indialantic, Fla., dropped me a sliort note telUng me about tlie death of JOHN 
DANIEL J. BRADLEY, MJ)., '28 

Dr. Dan Bradley of Amityville, N. Y., a member of the executive board and speak­er's bureau of the National Catholic Physi­cians Guild, recently appeared on the pop­ular "Nightbcat" television show. Dan's presentation of the Catholic medico-moral position, on everything from birth control to mercy killing, was so outstanding that the interview was reproduced in the March issue of Information^ national magazine of the Paulist Fathers. Entitled "Cross Exam­ination of a Cathoh'c Doctor," it has been widely reprinted. 
A native of Brooklyn, N. Y., Dan went to medical school at Cornell and interned at Brooklyn's St. Mar>''s Hospital after grad­uation (magna cum laude) from Notre Dame. He has been practicing in Amity­ville since 1934, except for four years \vith the Medical Corps in World War IL In 26 months in the South Pacific he made five combat landings as a battalion surgeon and finished as chief of medical ser\^ce of the 167th E\'acuation Hospital at Aomori, Japan. 
Dan is a diplomate in the A.A.G.P., a member of the A.M.A. and the Suffolk Count}' Medical Socict>'; founder, first pres­ident and a member of the board of the Rock\aIle Center Catholic Physicians Guild; president of the medical board of Good Samaritan Diocesan Hospital; past president at Brunswick General Hospital, and a di­rector of the Suffolk County Cancer So­cietj'. He finds time for such non-profession­al activities as the N.C.C.J., N.A.A.C.P., Catholic Charities, K. of C , Holy Name, the Bishop's lay committee and trusteeships at St, Martin's Church and MoUoy College for Women in Rockville Center, L. I-
In 1934 Dan married Winifred Marie Conway. They have three daughters, Ann Marie, Rose Marie and Danielle Marie. 
DEVEREUX of Chicago. Joe sent a check for Masses saying he felt sure the boys in the class would want to remember him In their prayers. John had many friends In our class . . . even though he graduated a year later with the class of '26. Thanks, Joe, for keeping us informed. Your note was mailed to HANK ^^'URZER. 
From the Alumni Office: 

JOE BACH, one of the Seven Mules and later the coach of several college and pro teams,' Is now a Penns>'I\'anIa state labor concilator and last fall helped settle Pittsburgh's long transit strike. 
JOSEPH P. COLLIGAN, Fort Wayne, Ind., in­surance executive, has been named chairman ol the lay ad\Tsor>- board of St. Vincent Home for the Aged, Ligonier, Ind. 
FATHER JOHN P. L\'NCH, C.S.C., fint pastor of St. Francis Xaner Church in Burbank, Calif., was tlic subject of a recent parish profile In the Burbank Independent. FATHER ^\•ILLIAM C. O'CONNOR, '45, is his assistant. 
DR. RALPH G. GL.\DEN, Modesto, Calif., won the sweepstakes award In Sacramento's 34th annual camellia show recently, winning over hundreds of other camclita growers from throughout the state. 
JOHN J. lOVNE, JR., former U. S. district at­torney in Cleveland, has been appointed police prosecutor and assistant law director of Lake­wood, Ohio. 
Commenting on Mayor GEORGE VERGARA*S . constructing a new $4 million city hall in New Rochelle, N. Y., HARRY FL.\NNERY, '23, writes: "My main memory of George Vergara came at the time the Klan in\'adcd South Bend. George met one of the contingents at the interurban station, told tlicm: 'The town is full of trouble-makers. It's dangerous. Follow me.' Then he proceeded to lead the band up an alley, down another alley, into a third, stopped and said: 'Walt here for me till I check ahead.* He went to the corner, turned, never came back . . ." 
IOO X  Rudolph A. Goepfrich  
• ^^^  tl09 No. Cleveland Avenue  
South Bend 28, Indiana  

In the Class Sccretarv-s* Conference, which was held at Notre Dame In Januarj-, there wxis a lot of enthusiasm displayed by those classes which are baring their reunion this year. ^Vc believe it is not too early to start plugging our 33th Reunion In 1961. Be sure to mention it when you are talk­ing to a classmate. 
PETER M. LA CAVA, who came to Notre Dame from Hartford, Conn., is now firmly cntrcnclied in ^fishau'aka, Ind., where he has a law office and where he is Judge in the City Court. He is also owner and operator of the "Casa Maria Restaurant" at beautiful Lake Wawasee, Ind. In 1924, Pete married Ann E. Amot and they have five children and five granchlldren. 
JOHN J. ENDRES, from McCook, Nebraska, now lives in Oak Park, III., and Is General .Auditor of the Federal Resen.e Bank of Chicago. In 1927 he married Alice Kane, and the>- have two sons: Father Benedict John and William, and three grand­children. 
JOHN F. O'DONNELL is back in his home town of Ma^-siille, Ky., where he Is night editor of the Ledger Publishing Company. He has just com­pleted a term as member of the Maysville City Commission. He married Opal Moore In 193G; they have no children. 
Another Judge in our class is JOSEPH J. D.\WES, who is Judge, District Court, First Judicial Dis­trict, Leaven\vorth, Kansas. Before becoming Judge, he was County Attorney, City Attorney and 
U. S. Commissioner. He was married in 1927 and has eight children, ranging in ages 29 to 16, and 15 grandchildren. We wonder if this is the largest famllv in our class? 
BROTHER JAMES OF MARY, F.S.C., is teach­ing in Saint Patrick's High School in Chicago. 
WILLIAM R. BARR is back in his home town of Chalmers, Ind. He says he has attended all previous reunions and expects to be on hand In 1961. 
Most of us know J. ARTHUR HALEY, tlic genial Director of Public Relations at Notre Dame. How­ever, we don't all know that he married Mary Virginia Matson In 1928 and that they have three sons, John A. Jr., George M.. M.D., and TTiomas W.. all graduates of N.D., and a daughter Patricia Haley ^fcCaf^ery; also one granddaughter. Art's hobbies are golfing and fishing. 
PAUL F. JACKSON is an attorney in Michigan City Ind. He is also President of the Kanney Sj-stems, Inc., an Outdoor Advertising firm. Being 
40 Notre Dame Alumnusf May-June, 1958 

there oil Lake Michigan, Paul is naturally inicr­iestcd in yachting and fishing. Among other offices, he is a member of the Michigan City Yacht Club, the Naval Advisory Board, and the National Rivers and Harbors Congress. In 1930, Paul married Ruth Mattes and they have a daughter, Barbara, a son Robert, and one grandchild. 
RICHARD N. KAVANAUGH is an attorney in 
Portland, Oregon. We arc sorry to hear that he 
has curtailed most of his extracurricular activities 
because of an arthritic condition and that he uill 
not be able to make the '61 reunion. 
From Indianapolis, wc hear from CLAUD M. 
PITSENBERGER. He is with Sclimid and Smith, 
Inc., and is Real Estate Propcrt>' Manager and 
handles insurance. As a secondary business, he is 
Chief Deputy, Center Township Assessor. In 1929, 
Claude married Carol Josephine Calmes. They have 
three daughters: Joan; Ann, who is Sister Claude 
of the Hospital Sisters of the Third Order of St. 
Francis, and Nancy. Claud is active in the K of 
C, and in many of the Real Estate societies. 
DR. J. WORDEN KANE, M.D., whose home is in Binghamton, N. Y., is a busy doctor. He is the Attending Neurosurgeon at Lourdcs Hospital, Bing­hampton City Hospital, and \Vilson Memorial Hos­pital. Also Consultant at Binghamton State Hos­pital, Thompkins Memorial Hospital, Ithaca; Dela­ware County Hospital, Delhi; Cornell University Medical Clinic, and The Hospital, Sidney. The Kanes have two sons, a daughter and one grand­child. 
BROTHER VICTOR, CS.C , is teaching at Holy 
Trinity High School in Chicago. Brother says he*s 
usually very busy at reunion time and that, besides, 
he's getting too old. Hc*s 76. 
BEN H. MAHANK, who came to N.D. from 
Mishaivaka, Ind., is now in Saginaw, Michigan, 
where he is Senior Tool Engineer at the Saginaw 
Steering Gear Division of General Motors. In 1936 
Ben married Martha Quaintance and they have a 
son, John. Ben was Executi%'e Vice Chairman in 
large Convent and Seminary Fund Drives in St. 
Mary's Cathedral Parish. (Ben, JOHN PROBST 'asked about you lately when I talked to him in Detroit.) 
•\Ve received a wonderful Christmas card from DENNIS J. O'NEILL, in which were pictured Dennis, his wife Dorothy, and the children: Susan, Mar>*, Michael, Darcy and Denny. Darcy is play­ing a harp. On a second picture were shoun Anne O'Neill Wallace and her husband Bob and the grandchildren: Robbie, VfM and Peggy. Dennis now lives in Lakewood, Ohio, and is Vice-President of the D'Arcy Advertising Co. As a secondary business, he is the publisher of the Ancestral Map of Ireland. In 1927, Dennis married Dorothy Cun­ningham. Dennis, Jr., was in the NJ3. Class of '51, and Michael is in the Class of '61. Our Dennis was named Man of the Year in 1956 by the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. He Is also active in many ci%^c and religious organizations. He writes: "CHUCK MOONEY has just been re-elected Pres­ident of the Cleveland School Board for the ump­teenth time after a lapse of a year as a mere mem­ber. FR/\NK DEFTLE wins the distinguished broth­er-in-law title of the year, awarded by the under­signed." 
JxVMES J. GL^'NN, originally from Terre Haute, Ind., and lately from Indianapolis, is now living in St. Petersburg Beach, Fla., and is owner of a Gift Shop there. In 1933, Jim married Mary Virginia Griffith; they have a daughter, Mary Ann. Jim is Director ol Athletics at St. John's Grade School. He would like to hear from JOE WAGNER of Tiffin, Ohio. 
DR. THOMAS E. LEAHY, M.D., is a prac­ticing physician and surgeon in Chicago. In 1933, he married Kathr>-n Downey and they have three children: Thomas, Jr., Ellin and ^fartha. Dr. Leahy is on the Interstate Postgraduate StofT of Mercy and Little Company of Mary Hospitals, and Ass't Clinical Instructor at Stritch School of Medicine. 
RAYMOND J. KEISER is an editor for Associ­ated Press. He has been with A.P. for 25 years, and was Chief of Bureau in Phoenbc from 191-1-48 and in Detroit from 1948-53. He is now in the New York Office and lives in Pclham, N. Y. Ray's first wife died in 1937 and in 1944 he married Janet Prendergast. He has three girls, two boj-s, and three grandchildren. Hobby, gardening. 
Our GEORGE "DUTCH" O'DAY made the front page of the Chicago Daily News on two successive days, Dec 30 and 31. It seems that one evening the O'Days' paper boy heaved the paper through their living room window and Dutch wrote the editor a long, humorous letter about it. This was printed, in full, on Dec. 30. The next day the front p:^e earned a humorous reply and a picture of Mrs. O'Day and the newsboy. 
SEYMOUR WEISBERGER is a practicing at­torney in South Bend. In 1932, he married Edyth Landy. They have no children. Seymour is a past president of the Indiana State B'Nai B'Rith Ass'n. 
THOMAS E. FERGUSON is now living in Hart­ford, Conn., where he is a Claim Auditor for the Travelers Insurance Co. In 1936, he married Helen Carlson and they have two girls, Anne and Kath­arine, and a boy, John. Tom is a past president of the Notre Dame Club oE the Connecticut Valley. 
Of the above 20 classmates, 12 indicated that Ihey intended to come to the '61 reunion, 3 said no, and 5 didn't know. 
From the Alumni Office: 
ROBERT L. CVHILL, a New York Slock Ex­change specialist in New York Central stock, han-" died the frantic NYC trading activity after Robert 
R. Young's death. 
1 92 7 Clarence J. Ruddy *• 32 South River Street Aurora, Illinois 
JOHN BRINKM^\N has written mc from Chi­cago that he has three sons. The youngest son is a graduate of St. Louis University and is a Second Lieutenant in the Air Force. The middle one will finish at Marquette in May. John points out that JOHN McKEVrrr of our Class is on the staff of the Engineering College at Marquette. John Brink-man's oldest son is a Jesuit Scholastic, and is finishing his third year of philosophy at West Baden, Indiana. . I %vas ver>- glad to hear from John because to date letters from classmates still have not been too plentiful. John is fortunate in­deed to have three boys who have graduated from college. He has every right to be proud. John himself, incidentally, has also had further college work since his graduation. He received his doc­torate in education at Loyola in February, 1958. 
To show you how time marches on, (as if you didn't know), I was delighted a couple months ago to hear from JACK D.-\ILY, who as you know practices law at Burlington, Iowa. One of Jack's daughters, Mary, plans to get married this summer, and will live in Aurora. I had the pleasure of talking to AJary <incl her fiance a lew wceu M^O. My home town will benefit greatly by the addition of this splendid young couple, although it still h rather hard for me to realize that my classmates are old enough to be parents of children who are marrying. 
THEODORE BEDNARD teaches at Manmon Military Academy in Aurora. He has been there for many years and is almost a part of the institu­tion. He is imdoubtedly one of the reasons that so many Marmion graduates continue their educa­tion at Notre Dame. 
It is with regret that I report the deaths of two of our classmates. You may have noticed that the preceding issue of the ALUMNUS told of the death of JOHN Q. CAREY of Toledo. AH the Law School classmates remember John well. He achieved marked success in his profession and was Judge of the Court of Common Pleas in Toledo for many years. I kept track of him from time to time through a friend we had in common, and under­stand that John was considered one of the best Judges on the Bench. 
JOHN PATTON also died recently. He had been living in ^[itchell, South Dakota, and his loss also will be deeply felt. 
You may have obser\-ed that the Class Secretaries had a meeting at Notre Dame on January 18. I was not able to attend because of another event which concerned one of our most illustrious class­mates. PAUL BUTLER was in .Aurora on that day to speak at a meeting sponsored by the Young Democrats' Club. It was my good fortune to be asked to introduce Paul. I accepted the oppor­tunity with alacrity. Paul's advancement in na­tional affairs has not affected his personality one bit. I will not bring politics into the Class Notes^ but I think I can be allowed to say that wc can all be Fro"*^ of Paul's conduct as National Chair­man of one of the niajor political parties. 
From the Alumni Office: 
^VILLIx\M S. GATE, Detroit regional manager of the Acme Fast Freight Company, celebrated his 30th anniversary with Acme on January 25. Bill now is a grandfather, courtesy' of his daughter Jane. I.ast June Bill, Jr., graduated from Notre Dame just 30 years after his father, and son John is now a freshman. 
ARTHUR "BUD" BOERDJGER, former AU­

FAIRFIELD COUNTY—The Notre Dame Club of Fairfield County, Conn^ gave a re­ception in honor of the Holy Cross Fathers of Notre Dame High School <rf Bridgeport, Coon^ in January. From left to right are Rev. George DcPrizio, CS.G^ provincial; Robert GrifiSn, club \*ice president; Rev. Thomas Lawton, C.S.G., principal of the high school, and Frank Kowalski, club president. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 41 
kiudersartcn icadier in his sdiool. TOM RODG­ER5 is sales manager in the Buffalo district office for Penn-DLxie Cement Corporation. GEORGE SARGUS reports from Wheeling, West Virginia, that DON BUTTER, his roommate in Freshman Hall, is now living in Phoenix, Arizona. Incident­ally, my Freshman Hall roommate, JOE BRxVN'NON, is with Sean in PhoenLx. 
RUSS SMITH, president and general manager of the Sandusk>' Cement Prod. Co., advised that he expected to see JOHN GAUGHAN soon in Dal­las, Texas. I am anxious to locate John's address. Russ sees CHET RICE of Avon lake, Ohio, reg­ularly. JOHN SONNH/\LTER is treasurer of the Xlsual-Tech Publications, Inc., in Cleveland, Ohio. He is also manager of the art department at Jack & Heintz, Inc. ED THOMAN is a project engineer in the plant department with the Indiana Bell Tele­phone Co. in South Bend. Ed, who is a widower, has five diildren. including two sets of twins. 
JOHN AVINBERRY, an attorney in Rutherford, 
N. J., has four diildren, ages 2 to 7. John has serv*ed as general counsel for the Congressional Committee to investigate executive agencies and as spedal consultant for tlie U. S. Senate Committee lo investigate crime in interstate commerce. 
I attended the Notre Dame Club Communion breakfast in Boston on December 8, 1957. JOHN HERBERT was the only other '28 man present. TIM TWOMEY, '29, was inquiring about a num­ber of dassmates. including WILL^VRD WAGNER. JOHN RICKORD reported that he saw DICK PHEL-AN and HOWIE PHALIN at the Chicago 
N.D. Communion breakfast. 
Father JIM McSH.-\NE reports following a se­rious illness that his nurse at St. Joseph's Hospital in Denver was the daughter of BILL CR/UG, '29. Although Bill was not in our class, he was well known to many of us through debating and the AVranglers. Bill is co-owner of the Tri-City Radio Corporation in Munde, Indiana, and has 10 chil­dren. Bill's first wife died. leaving three children. Father Jim reported that ELMER WYNNE visited him * in the hospital. Elmer is in industrial rela­tions work v%-ith the Safeway Stores in Denver. Father Jim offered a Mass for the deceased mem­bers of our class in December. 
ALBION GRIFFIN is assistant head of the patent division of Bethlehem Steel Co. in Bethlehem, Pa. MIKE McGEOGHEGxVN Is director of the dcc­tronic data processing center, U. S. Trcasurv* Dept., at Parkersburg, West Virginia. JOHN POLISKY is physical director of the Catholic Community Center at Steubcnvillc. Ohio. JOHN "CLIPPER" SMITH is in personnel administration with Pratt and Whitney Aircraft in Mcriden, Conn. JOSEPH 
S. SULLI\'AN Is vice president and general counsel for the Amalgamated Labor Life Insurance Co. in Chicago. MAURICE COUGHLIN is an attorney iu Erie, Pa., and Is assistant city soHdtor. Maurice has served as chairman of the Eric County Dem­ocratic Committee. 
BOB DEGN/VN is with the E. F. Johnson Co., an electronic parts manufacturing company, jn \S'aseca, Minn., as material control supervisor. Bob has a daughter who Is a medical technologist at the Mayo Clinic In Rochester. BERNARD KOR­ZEN is Clerk of the Probate Court In Cook County and attorney for the Cook County Recorder of Deeds and for the Chicago Board of Education. 
ART ZIMMERMAN is comptroller and assistant sccretarv- of the Eagle-Picher Co. of Ridce Rouge. Michigan.. He visited with TOM JOHNSON last summer. Art sees BOB VOGELWEDE, '29, fre­quently. Bob is a partner v%Ith Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co. in Detroit. 
JOHN CARLIN is office manager of the Clem­^nce-^forrison Livestock Commission and has cattle and farming as a secondary interest. John has two children and lives in Mentor, Kansas. LOUIS CARR is vice president and general manager of Coast Cities Coaches in Neptune Citv, N. J. He has five children, ages 16 to 21. JOHN S. CUL­LEN is manager for AN'estem New York for the Industrial Appraisal Company. John lives in Buf­falo and has four children, ages 8 to 21. DR. JOHN GOGKE has served as physidan for the Los Angeles police and fire department for 22 years. John has seven children, ages 6 to 22­JIM HARTLEY is plant auditor for the American Can Co. in Hobokcn, N. J. BERNARD LOEFF­LER is division plant engineer for the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. in Kokomo, Indiana. EUGENE MCVEIGH is an attorney in Long Branch, N. J. 
Two items which crossed my desk at the Boston Regional office of the U. S. Department of Labor referred to classmates. One v\'as with respect to JOE Md^AMARA, assistant to the president and in charge of industrial relations at the Bridgeport Aiiivricaii lineman under K. K. ROCKNE and Dc­troJL line coacli under GUS DORrVIS, is employed by Foley Broihcrs at the firm's huge taconitc project at lIo>-t Lakes, Minn. 
CHARLES A. O'NEILL, veteran executive sec­rclar\- of St. Vincent de Paul in Milwaukee, re­cently received a Pcrc Marquette Axvard from Mar­quette University. 
A. J. BRADLEY, recreation supervisor at Newark Slate School, Newark, N. Y., wrote to describe the appearance of Pennsylvania Boxing Chairman JLM CROAV'LEY, '25, at a local sports dinner and to furnish some lore on the Victory Marcii. 
W. W. (RED) SMITH, syndicated sports col­umnist of the New York Herald Tribune, received the tenth annual award of the Catholic Institute ol the Press. 
Reunion 
"Z3 

192 8 Louis F. Buckley 
• '^ " 135 Blue Hills Park^vay Milton 86, Massachusetts 
Some of you may remember BROTHER COR­
NELIUS G. MacMAHON, a student at N.D, from 
1925 to 1929, and who ivas listed on our '28 class 
rosier. Brother passed away on October 30, 1957, 
after fifty years of scr\-icc as a teacliing Brotljcr in 
the Christian Brothers of Ireland. 
I wish to extend our s^-mpathy to JOHN RICK­ORD on the death of his motiier in October, to ARTHUR ZIMMERMt\N, whose mother died in November, and to FRANK CREADON, whose mother passed atvay in February. My father died in December. Please remember them in your prayers. 
The sister of JAMES PARKER advises that Jim is a patient in the Veterans Hospital, Gulfport Division, Biloxi, Mississippi, where he is sufTering from Alzheimer's disease. Please pray for his re­covery. 
I trust all of you received my Nc^ralctter ginng details on the folloinng items: the appointment of HO^VIE PHALIN as executive vice president of the Field Enterprises Educational Corporation and director of ^Vorld Book Encyclopedia sales. Dr. DAN BRADLEY'S appearance on the "Nightbcat" 
NEW ORLEANS—This ^vzs just part of the happy throng at the New Orleans Gluh^s annual gathering of students and parents. From left to right: President James E. Smith, John Petitbon; Bill Fischer, Notre Dame line coach and prindpal speaker; C. A. Sporl, Jr.; W. S. Smith, Jr.; Joseph Ecuycr, Harold D. Sporl and Allen Ecuyer, who was presented the I.N.S. All-America award. 
' 

television program (Ed. Note: Dan is a ^'Spotlight 
Alumnus" in this issue. J.L.), tlic accidental meet­
ing of JOHN CARROLL and GEORGE LEPPIG 
 in the Virgin Islands, my get-together with TOM 
BOV, and llie report of ilic illness of FATHER 
JIM McSHANE. 
News has readied me concerning a number of 
men whose names have not appeared in this column 
in years. LIONEL E. AUSTIN is owner of the 
Gaily Box Company in Chicago, Illinois. Lionel 
has six cliildren, ages 10 to 21. RAY DAH^L\N is 
working at the U. S. Post Office in Youngsto\**n, 
Ohio. Ray has one son. PHIL BERTHIAUME 
is Regional ^^anagcr of tlic Bankers Life Company 
in Portland, Oregon, and Secretary-treasurer of the 
Meltna Company, property and investments. Phil 
has served as city chairman of tlie Notre Dame 
Foundation. 
FR.\NK CREADON sent me a clipping from the 
December 14, 1957, issue of the Chicago Tribune in 
which a report of the Civic Federation was quoted 
concerning tlic installation of a new mcdianized 
system of records dealing with the assessment of 
property and the billing and collection of property 
taxes. Mentioned particularly in the report was 
ED.MUND J. BRENNAN, Director of Central Serv­
ices in Cook County, Illinois. "For his competent 
and painstaking efforts in overseeing the v-ast 
amount of detail involved in the operation." Ed 
also serves as chairman, Committee on Public 
Records, Municipal Finance Officers Association of 
the U. S. and Canada. 
ILVROLD RUPPEL tells me that he noticed on 
TV that HAL HUDSON is listed as producer of 
the Dick Powell *'Zane Grey Theatre" in Holly­
wood. R.\LPH NOLx\N is President of the Con­
nor Investment Co. in JopHn, Missouri. 
EDWARD J. MO\\'ERY, who was with our class during our freshman year, is a special writer for the Newhouse newspapers. You will rcc:dl that Ed received a PuUtizer prize in 1953 for his successful seven-year fight to free falsely convicted Louis HofT­ner, scnang a life term for murder. £d is return­ing for our reunion in June. 
JOSEPH C. NORTON Is head of the electrical engineering staff at Union Carbide Chemicals Co. in South Charleston, West Virsinia. GREGORY PARKER is a teadier in the Rilcy High School in South Bend. a\RL PETIERICH is director of graduate studies and extension services at State Tcadiers College in Danbur>-, Conn. PHIL PITON is assistant to the president of the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues and is located in Columbus, Ohio. JOHN ROBINSON is taking on a' building program for the Robinson School in Hartford, Conn., which will enable them to teach youngsters from the kindergarten through the 12th grade. John has his oldest daughter as 
42 Notre Dome Alumnus, May-Jung, 1958 
Brass Company. Joe is doing an outstanding job for his company and for his community as a mem­bcr of the Bridgeport Manpower Council. The other item referred to JOHN DEVLIN, manager of the cmplo>-mcnt security office in Dayton, Ohio. Reference was made to Jim as "the good quarter­back who calls the plays in winning not only the cooperation of the loc:J office emptoyecs, but also the respect of the community.*' 
I have located a copy of the November 1937 issue of the Columbia magazine, called to my attention by TOM MAHON. A picture is carried on page 27 ol the Fourth Degree class at Vicks­burg, Miss., named in honor of BOB EVAN's father who presented his seven sons, including Bob, and two sons-in-law for initiation. 
In the last issue of the ALU^tNUS wc listed those who arc celebrating their 25th wedding anniversary the first six months of this year. TIiosc for which we have data for the rest of the year are as follou-s: RAY LUSSON, July I; JIM WHITE, July 15; JOHN P. MURPHY, July 29; HERB Mca\BE, Sept. 9; AUURICE CONLEY, Sept. 15; ROBERT GRANT, Sept. 17; NORB SEIDEN­STICKER, Sept. 20; JOHN FONT.WA, Oct. 19; MARCUS FARRELL, Oct. 4; LOUIS a\RR , Nov. 25; HENRY HASLEY, Dec 30. Those celebrating their 30lh wedding anniversary include JOHN LARSEN. July 4; \VM. MAHON, Aug. 10; JOHN RICKORD, Aug. 25: ED McCLARNON, Oct. 10; ED QUINN and BILL McGEE on Nov. 29. I regret my records are not complete on anniversaries, so all could be included. 
FATHER .\LVRK FITZGER^VLD, C.S.C., and I attended the meeting of the Catholic Economic Association in Philadclpliia on December 27-28. Father Mark gave an excellent Presidential address on the subject of National Resources and Public Policy. I spoke on "The Migrant Worker Today." We also attended a meeting of the Executive Board of the National Catholic Social Action Conference. Father Mark is a member and I am chairman of that Board. 
This will supplement my report in the last ALUMNUS of classmates with sons attending the following colleges: Indiana University, GEORGE BEAMER; Western Reserve University, PAT CANN'Y; U. S. ^fe^chant \rarine Academy, LOUIS CARR; Ohio University, RUSSELL COL­LINS; Buffalo University; JOHN CULLEN; Illinois University, RAY DAHMAN; Georgia State College, BILL DAILY; Loyola University, ED DUFFY; John Hopkins, TERENCE DONAHUE; Michigan State. AUGUSTUS JENKINS; Assumpuon College, MAX GAUTHIER; Georgia University, JOHN GOCKE; St. Ambrose, HAYES MURPHY; St. Paul Novitiate, THOMAS J. NOON; San Diego State; THOM/\S NOON; Marquette Universit>-, JOSEPH NORTON; St. Joseph's College, JOHN RICKORD; Nfaryland University, RICHARD WEPPNER; Cath­olic University, RICH.ARD ^VEPPNER; Yale Uni­versity, ALBION GRIFFIN; Holy Cross College, JOSEPH SULLIV.AN. 

You will recall that wc listed the '28 men with sons at N.D. in the last ALUMNUS. I have heard that the sons of FRtVNK CRE/VDON and MARCUS FARRELL arc following in ilieir fathers' footsteps in the N.D. Glee Club. Are there other '28 sons doing the same? 
The following is a continuation of my round-up in the last issue of the ALUMNUS on where daughters arc attending college: Stanford Univer­sity, PHIL BERTHIAUME; St. Mary's College. JOE GRIFFIN, PAT CVNNY, WM. McGEE; Rosary College, FRANCIS CREADON, ROBERT RIGNEY; Buffalo University, JOHN CULLEN; Sorbonnc, Paris, ED DUFFY; Trinity College, JOE KISSLING, ED DUFFY; Mar>-mount College, JOHN GOCKE; Marquette Univcrsitx-, HENRY ILASLEY; Oregon Univcrsitv, JOE E. MORRIS­SEY; Arkansas Univcrsitv, JOHN P. MURPHY; St. Elizabeth College, JOHN ROBINSON; D'You­ville, THOMxVS RODGERS; Newton College, HAROLD RUPPEL; Florida State Univcrsitv, JAMES O'BRIEN; Skidmorc College, EUGENE A. SCHILTZ; Illinois Universitv, FRxVNCIS MEYER; Salve Rcgina College. JAMES GIVREN (deceased). BERNIE GxVRBER sent me a clipping announcing that BILL CRONIN's daughter, a student at Man­hattan\-illc College ^^•as crowned Columbian Queen of Westchester at the annual charity ball at White Plains. 
The following classmates are serving on com­mittees, boards, etc, as follows: GEORGE BE.\­MER, member of the South Bend School Board, trustee of Ashland College, President of the St-Joseph County Bar Association, and the South Bend Advisor>- Council, University of Notre Dame; DR. BERNARD CRO^VLEY, President, N. D. Club of Wichita, Kansas; GEORGE COURY, Chairman of Eisenhower Committee to employ the Handicapped for Southeast Florida; BILL DAILY, Chairman, Atlanta Area Council, Boy Scouts, and Governor of N.D. Foundation for State of Georgia; EDWARD J. DUFFY is a member of the Essex Fells Board of Education and trustee of the lay board of Trinity College. DR. MARCUS FAR­RELL is president of the West Virginia Pediatric Society, chairman of the Harrison City-Clarksburg Board of Health, asd president of the Coordinating Committee, Clarksburg Deancr>' of Roman Cath­olic Churches; HENRY HASLEY is master of Northern district of Indiana Fourth degree, trilstee of Father Gibault School for bo^'s, and member of the ad%TSory board, St. Francis College; BOB L/VMEY is president of the Evansvillc N.D. Club; JOHN P. MURPHY is president of the Fort Smith 
N.D.
 Club and city chairman of the N.D. Foimda­tion; JOHN ROBINSON is chairman of the board of /Mbertus Magnus College; ILAROLD RUPPEL is councilman in ^foreland Hills Village, Ohio; JOHN WINBERRY is governor of the N.D. foundation in New Jersey; L.\URENCE WIN­GERTER is a member of the Board of Governors, St. ^fary's University, president and trustee of the Bexar Foundation, Inc., San Antonio, and director in the Common Carrier Motor Freight .-Vssociation, the Transportation League, and the Texas Safety Council; JOHN FONTiVNA is a member of the Democratic Executive Committee. Franklin County, Ohio, and Columbus chairman of X.D, Founda­tion; JOE GERiVGHTY is diocesan chairman of the Bishop's Committee on Scouting in Rochester, 

N.
 Y.; JOSEPH HILGER is trustee of the Indiana Hospital fVssociation; RON RICH is secretary- of the Y.M,C.A. Board of Directors, South Bend; FLOYD SEARER is a member of the Board of .Aviation Commissions, St. Joseph County; F. X. JAMES O'BRIEN is a director of the University of ^fianii ^Vtumnl Association. 


I have additional reports on children and grand­children of classmates to supplement that given in the ^farch ALUMNUS. The following have had children since our 25th reunion: MARTIN RINI, 
LaCROSSE Some of the throng at Club's holiday formal in LaCrosse, Wis., arc, facing camera, left to right, standing, Pete Ninneman, 
Bob Shields, Bill Murphy, Steve Pavela, Bernie Lavins, Dick Pcarse, Auggie Grams, Joe Murphy and Carl Schacttlc; kneeling, Dave Murphy and Jim Kroner. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 43 
MIAMI—Father Thomas O'DonncIl, C.S.C., associate director of the N.D. Foundation, meets the newly elected officers of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami at the Com­munion Breakfast Feb. 23 atop the Columbus Hotel. Left to right: Dr. Wilh'am B. Welch, '46, secretary; Charles E. Mahcr, *35, president; Father O'Donnell; James A. Smith, '48, first vice president, and Arthur C. Bergen, '31, treasurer. Missing was AV. Dan Rowlands, '50, second Wcc president. 
PAUL BRUST, BERNARD CROWLEY, JOSEPH GRIFFLV, FRANK HEGARTV. JOHN WIN­BERRY, PAT VARRAVETO, BILL O^NEILL, MIKE HOGAN, and MIKE RICKS. Arc there others who should be added to this list? 
My last report in the ALUMNUS on grand­parents is supplemented as follows with the number of grandchndren in parenthesis: ED THOMAS (9), TO.M RODGERS (8). F. X. JAMES O'BRIEN (5), TERENCE DONAHUE (4), CHRISTIE FLANA­GAN (4), LOUIS BUCKLEY (4), JOSEPH NOR­TON (4), RICHARD WEPPNER (3), BOB EVANS 
(3). JOHN DAMS (2), ROBERT RIGNEY (2), AUGUSTUS JENKINS (2), RUSSELL SMITH (2). GEORGE BEAMER (2). Those added to the list of grandfathers *%ith one each arc: JOHN CULLEN. RAY DAHMAN, BILL DAILY, GER­ALD McGILL, ED DUFFY, JOHN RICKORD, MIKE McGEOHEGAN. LEO SCHULTHEIS, THOMAS JAMES. JOHN SCHMITZ, and JOSEPH SIMONIN. FRANK HEGART\' and RALPH NOLAN reported that thc>' expected to become grandfathers soon. 
I noticed in the March 3 issue of the Con­gressional Record a comment on the observance of the silver jubilee of the ordination of our classmate, REV. GEORGE BENAGLIA, C.S.C., president of King's College as follows: "To 5cr\c as president of ;\vo colleges, superior of a seminar>', and director )f a foundalicn In tlic brief span of 25 years Is mprcssivc recognition for a clcrg>-man, testifying :o his executive capacity, Iiis intellectual attatn­ncnts, and the respect he commands." Con­rratulations, Father George, and best wishes on 
his important mll'^tone. 
The sister of LEO PAUL advises that Leo is till confined in Merc>' State Hospital, Mcrc>*, N. Y., fhcTc he has been since 1940. Please remember 'aul in your prayers. 
GEORGE SCHEUER, who has been helping ATHER /\NDY MULREAN^Y, C.S.C., on plans 3r the reunion and who got out a mailing In 'ebniary, has been out to talk to the Journalism :niors on the campus- George, who is chief of the apy desk and anation editor at the South Bend nbune, has a scliedule set up for journalism :udcnts to sit in on the run of the copy desk t the South Bend Tribune for a few Saturday ights of practice, like many of our classmates used t do at the old News Times. George Is planning luncheon for Journalists on Saturday noon during 
ir reunion week end. JOHN SCHMITZ is southeastern mcrcliandlse anagcr for the Oregon Washington-California Pear Lireau. John lives In Atlanta and has one lughter and grandchild. ANDY KANE called me cently. He is an attorney for the City of )ston. Andy, who finished law ai Boston Uni­
? Notre Dame AlumnuSy May-June^ 1958 

versity, has one daughter, a student at RadclilTe. GUS JE-NKINS of Williamswlle, N. Y., has re­tired from active service, although he retains his office of \ice-president of Dunn Welding Co., and is a partner In the Airways Hotels, Inc. Gus is teaching some classes In English in high school. Gus. who is following the example of JOHN SEITER who also recently returned to teaching, alwa>*s liki'd leaching. With the cooperation of the Alumni Ofilcc, we sent letters to all the fellows listed as freshmen in the 1924-25 student directory- who were not on our class roster, inviting them to return to the reunion. Since the addresses were 34 years old, a number of the letters were returned unclaimed, as anticipated. We were advised that the follow­ing men were deceased: GEORGE D. GILLIS, FRANCIS KRAUS, JULIUS M. SCHUH, JOSEPH 
M. Mca\RTHY, ALBERT C. MOORE, FRAN*K 
W. WTNSLOW, CYRIL \\\ BRADFORD (April 28, 1944), A. J. FINK (March 25, 1957), and W.\f. H. McCORMICK (March 2, 1957). Please remember these men in your prayers. 
I obtained news on the following men in re­sponse lo this mailing to old students: M.ARK BRADLEY, who was "from Hickman, Kentucky, In our freshman and sophomore days, is now REV. PATRICK BRADLEY, O.S.B., procurator for St. Procopius Abbey at Lisle, Illinois; JOHN JACKSON is owner and manager of the Mercliants Advertising Service In his home town of Coldwaler, ^ficlligan, where he 5cr\ed as Mayor from 1952 to 1956. JOHN HANNAN is terriior>- manager in Iowa for the James Lees & Sons, manufacturers of carpets. He lives at 243—51st St., Des Moines, Iowa. GEORGE 
H. STADEL is a na\-al arcliitect In Stanford, Conn., where he lives at 426 Sheppan Ave. George played hockcv for New York A. C. several. years. He has six children. JOHN ^VATHEN, who was called J.B. when he was with us during our freshman and sophomore years, is in the field of sales and servicing of personal aircraft. His ad­dress is 391 Mockingbird Valley Rd., Louisville 7, Ky. ED SHORT Is in the Insurance business in his home town of Ifoberly, Missouri. His son was graduated in law from Notre Dame in 1956. 
I trust you are making plans to attend our 30­ycar reunion whicli opens with the class dinner on Friday evening, June 6. As I write these notes on Mardi 8 over 200 classmates have advised the>­\vill attend our reunion. I have been particularly impressed by thz number of classmates who are returning for the first time since graduation. 
BERNIE G.\RBER, with the help of a number of classmatLS, has carried out a great publicity campaign. VINCE CARNEY has the '28 clothing ready for distribution in Lyons Hall on June 6. FATHER ANDY MULREANY, CS.C. and his local commitlre have done a great Job m making plans for the week end that will set a new high In reunions and at least a few new records for the historians, as JLM ARMSTRONG has predicted. This is a final invitation to return to the Notre Dame campus on June 6, 7, and 8—to one of the most beloved dwelling places that we have ever had. I hope that I will sec eacli of you at Lyons Hall on June 6. 
From the .Alumni Office: 
Th; National Catholic Social Action Conference, mentioned briefly by Your Secretary, Is a new national organization dedicated to bringing Chris-tun principlci to bear on American social prob­lems. Replacing the National Conference on In­dustrial Problems, it Is made up of priests and la>-men active In various social fields. Its chairman Is LOU BUCKLEY, who also headed the previous group. N.C.S.A.C. holds its first national meeting OR the Notre Dame campus Sept. 4-7. 
COL. LEO J. SCHULTHEIS, who plans to travel to the reunion all the way from Laos, where he Is .Army .\ttache at the American Embassy, has made a gift to the University Librar>* of three rare volumes in the Lao language pertaining to the teachings of Buddha. 
192 9 Lawrence F. Stauder 
Engineering Building 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

Should you care to remember a deceased friend or relative wjtJ. a Perpetual Remembrance in over 8(X) daily masses and many other spiritual works you will want more information from REV. THOM­MAS M. FITZPATRICK. C.S.C., Holy Cross Purgatorial Society, Holy Cross Missions, Washing­ton 17, D. C. He has available a framed certificate of membership (with donor's name) which he mails promptly to the family of the deceased. OfTering is $5 for each person enrolled. Be sure to send him complete Information should you wish to enroll a member cither living or deceased. Perhaps you have been aware of this program. If you have ivanted details this Is your opportunity to obtain them. The Class of *29 might well establish a class-sponsored remembrance of Its deceased within this program of Father FItzpatrick. 
Many of us may not be aware that on the first Saturday of rvcry month a Mass is offered for deceased members of alumni families. On April 5, REV. THOM.\S J. O'DONNELL, CS.C , in­cluded in his Mass intention the repose of the soul of Katherlne G Dalev (died, Jan. 29), mother of 
J. HARVEY DALEY, *29. Your classmates send you their sincere sympathy, Harx'ey. 
If you missed the Spotlight Alumnus stor>- on HAROLD J. MARSHALL, »29, In the last ALUM­NUS >"0U didn't read page 58, 
WALT MULFLUR, 1031 Queen St., Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, Is a Division Superintendent for Algoma Steel Corp. Son JOE MULFLUR (23) is an N.D. graduate of '56; daughter Mar>' is a senior at St. Mian's. John, age 19, Is \ri(h FATHER WILL CRfVDDICK, '30, at Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn. At home are Jimmy, II, and Loretta, 9. 7*Iic Mulflurs moved to Canada in June, 1954. W^c saw them on the campus fre­quently before that time and look for^%'ard to their next xislt. Mike O'Donnell, Walt's nephew, aspires to enter as an N.D. freshman this fall. ^Valt would like to hear from HAROLD BOUXUS and DOC DOUGHERT\'. Doc is now Chief Afetallurgist of Welrton Steel Corp. If the cor­respondence that your sccrctar>' receives is a \'alid statistical sample Doc is a leading candidate for Class of *29 man of »his year or any year. 
BILL CRf\IG of Muncle, Indiana, vice-president of TrI-City Radio Corp., and wife Ann are proud parents of Tim, bom Feb. 2, 1958. Tim is Craig number ten. His brothers and sisters are Bill, Jr., Margie, Patty, Mike, Bob, Tom, Jim, Don and Joe. Tim is already uncle to three, namely Jeff, Dave and Stc\c, sons of Bill, Jr. That 1958 Muncle basketball team Is tops and has excellent long-term prospects. Bill would like to hear from ARNOLD WILLIAMS and JOE McNxVMARA. 
JOE ^MLALEN, '29's representative on the 
Alumni Board to 1958 and a vcr>' active one, 
writes as follows: 
"MARK WONDERLIN Is the other '29cr living :n Des MoincJ. He is chief of the Claims Division of the Aetna Casualty and surety Company office here. 
"H. A. 'HUB* SCHI.MBERG is In Des Moines frequently on business trips. Hub has a fine dry 
cleaning establishment in Cedar Rapids, lou'a, and 
is the immediate past president of the Iowa State 
Cleaners and Dyers Association. 
"MARK WALSH, long a resident of Beatrice, N^raska, moved lo California with his family a few years ago and continued in the hotel business there. He has recently made a new connection and is general manager of a hotel chain on the West Coast. I have misplaced his last letter so, if he reads this, he will understand why I failed to ansAver it. 
"Wc were honored by a short visit from JOE LENIHAX a few months ago. He stopped over on a business trip to the West Coast. 
"Have seen or heard from a number of the *29i;rs recently, and among them—EMMETT Nfc-CABE, San Diego; AL \\XI.ZENBACH. Los Angeles; L.\RRY STAUDER, Notre Dame: MICK­EY McMAHOX, New Orleans, and GEORGE MONROE, Frceport, III." 
The Burns boys, Joseph P., Class of '58, and Henry, Jr., an entering freshman, are just two more reasons why HENRY BURNS will be here from Kcnmor;, N. ' Y., for our class reunion in '59—and before. Henr>' is President of the Ran-burn Co., Inc.—which ANG GALDABINI do-scribes as one of the outstanding paper box plants in the country. Hcnr%''s family includes Mary Ruth, 23, and Michael, 10, as well as Joe and Henry, Jr. Henry has recently seen EARL LE/\CH, JACK ELDER, BOB TROTTER and JOHN L.\W. John is distributer for Miller Brewing Co. in New York State. HENR\ BURNS would like to hear from TOM RYAW and REGIS BITTNER. 
From Milwaukee ANGELO GALDx\BINI reports his family as: sons John, 21, at Marquette U.; Jim, 19, at Holy Cross, and Tom, 16 (an N.D. prospect), at Dominican High, WhiteBsh Bay. Ang is still managing Manufacturers Box Co. and Manufacturers Chemical Co. He would like to hear from I\^\N WOLF and E.ARL KEEZER. 
JIM NOWERY continues his oil well drilling and related actintics in North Louisiana, East Texas and Arkansas. Son Charles R. is now a sophomore at N.D. living in Morrissey Hall. James 
B. is now 22 and daughter Patricia Elizabeth is thirteen. "Shorty* heard recently from BILL MILLER, '30, of Jackson, Miss., who is doing well. 
Another prospect for N.D. is Fred Baum, age 15, son of DR. CH.\RLES BAUNf and wife Dorothy. Doctor practices dentistry in Hamilton, Ohio, and finds time for service to his community as this partial Ibt of his activities indicates: former 
president of Keely (Butler County) Dental Society; 
past cliairman of Hamilton Quarterback Club; 
former president, Y.^LC.A. Swimming Club, where 
son Fred has won six swimming letters since age 
9; member. Elks, K. of C , and N.D. Club of 
Hamilton. Doctor Baum is a stafT member of 
Mercy and Fort Hamilton Hospitals where he does 
oral surgery. (Thank you, Charles, for briefing us 
on your activities; now your classmates know you 
better. Your class secretary would like to have similar information from others.) 
JOE HISS, Oakland, California, was recently appointed assistant nce-president of the First Western Bank and Trust Co. He is vice-chairman of the bank properties committee. Son Joseph .Mark is age 9. Joe sees BERNIE ABBOTT, FRED PE.\K, LES and ED Ryan. He would like to hear f»-om the Corby H;ill Tribe—which must Include ROCCO PERONE. 
Joe has this sad news to rclav. MICH.\EL J. CUNNINGHAM, '29, of 10335 Wibhlrc Blvd., Los Angeles, died in mid-Januar>'. Joe attended the recitation of the rosar\- at St. Paul's Church, West Los Angeles. WILLIAM S. O'CONNOR, '29, of Indianapolis, died in April. The Class of '29 sends its sincere s>Tnpathy to their families and to the family of OSaVR L. SIDENFADDEN, '20, who died ver>' recently. Among the survivors is his brother, WILLIAM R. (SID) SIDENFADEN, '29. 
John Kcams. a senior in A.B., son of J.ACK KEiVRNS, '29, was recently awarded a 'Woodrow Wilson Fellowship for graduate study in the 1958­59 school year. John vvas awarded a monogram in fencing this spring. 
W'c hope you have time to say a praver for BILL DONEUVN, Colorado Springs, Colo.,'who Is on the mend from a stroke suffered late last fall. 
193 0 Severe PIttnkctt 0*Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
TOM MEDLjVND brings us up to date on a lot of people seen by him in his varied activities: 
"In Logansport H/VROLD TUBERTY, '31, is City Judge and TOM HIRSCHAUER, '41, is City Attorney. JIM DIGAN, '29, is a manufacturers representative with residence in Logansport and offices In Chicago. Jim is the third Notre Dame man presently included in the ofHcial municipal family, ser\ing on the City Council. DICK MOLIQUE, '36, is a successful attorney and LEO HENDRICKS, '34, is in the printing business. ART McGRATH, '50, is with the Pennsylvania Railroad and ED MALAY, '25, is still a resident of Log^^nsport, though I don't see Art or Ed very often. My brother, Ed, '29, is in the construction business. G.ALE BARTER, '49, is an Important cog in my archltectiu^l office. 
ED HICKEY, '38, who spent several years in Logansport following graduation is back in South Bend in the air conditioning business. JOHN TIERNEY, '49, after a few years in Logansport was transferred back to South Bend by the Great Lakes Distributing Corp. PAUL BOTT, '31, a native of Logansport, is now Purchasing Agent for the H. W. Gossard Co. and is living In 'White Plains, New York. BILL R.AMMEL, '49, also a native of Logansport is practicing architecture in Fort Wayne. DR. JIM HARRINGTON, '45, a native of Richmond, after several years in the West has established practice in Logansport within the past year. DICK HAUGH, '29, is with the 
U. S. Employment Service. His territory Includes Logansport and I see him periodically. 
"Surrounding the time I served as Indiana State Deputy of the Knights of Columbus from 1952-1954 I attended Supreme Conventions for four or five successive years. At those meetings and other Knights of Columbus activities I made contact with se\xral Notre Dame men including His Excellency .ARCHBISHOP JOHN F. 0'HAR.A, in Philadelphia, CHARLIE DUCEY, '28, and BILL PIEDMONT, '39 Supr-me offices. Supreme Director CONROY SCOGGLNS, ('24), PAUL CASTNER, '23, in St. Paul, and then Oklahoma Slate Dcputv. MARION BLAKE, '33. I have Just learned that Marion recently welcomed a new addition to his family. 
"Others I have seen particularly through Knights of Columbus activities in Indiana are: BOB LAMEY, '28, of E\-ans\-ille, PAT FISHER, '35, JOHN O'CONNOR, '38, JIM, '38, and JOHN ROCAP, JACK ELDER, and TED ABEL of Indianapolis. Jim Freeman, '33, is In the clothing manufacturing buisiness in Winamac, Indiana. 
**Past State Deputies of the Indiana State Knights of Columbus are als-.> members of the Board of Directors of the Father GIbault School for Boys at Terre Haute, Indiana. This is a school for delinquent boys, sponsored by the Indiana Knights of Columbus and operated by the Brothers of Holy Cross. Fellow Past State Deputies and Board mem-

PHILADELPHIA—Notre Dame men at a reception held by the Philadelphia Notre Dame Club at time of N.CA^. meetings in January at Philadelphia, included: (seated) Wally Fromhart, head coach University of Detroit; Andy Pilncy, head coach, Tulane; Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president, Notre Dame; George Terlep, head coach, Regina Roughriders; Henry Stram, asst, coach, Notre Dame; Terry Brcnnan, head coach, Notre Dame; Ed Krause, athletic director, Notre Dame; Adam Walsh, head coach, Bowdoin; (standing) Phil Yanoschik, asst. coach, Wayne Univ.; Frank (Blackie) Johnston, asst. coach, Marquette; Walter Grothaus, football, *45-'47-'48-'49, (Philadelphia club); Bill Whiteside, football, 1950 (Philadelphia club); George Dickson, asst. coach. College of the Pacific; John Afazur, asst coach, Marquette; Tom Brock, asst. coach, Omaha Univ.; Ed Crotty, coach, Danbury (Conn.) High School; Lou Rymkus, asst. coach, Los Angeles Rams; Milt Picpul, asst. coach, Brown Univ.; Jake Kline, baseball coach, Notre Dame; Wally Zicmba; former asst. coach, Notre Dame; Rex Enright, athletic director, South Carolina; Jack Vainisi, scout. Green Bay Packers; Bud Kerr, head coach, University of Dayton; Bob Dove, asst. coach, Detroit Lions; Bill Smith, coach, Canadian football league; Jack Zilly, asst. coach, Notre Dame; Larry (Moon) Mul­lins, athletic director, Marquette; Ed Mieszkowski, asst. coach, Marquette; Harry Stuhldreher, former head coach, Wisconsin; Johnny Dnizc» head coach, Marquette; Larry Sullivan, head coach, McGill Univ.; Bill Regan, high school coach, Morristown, N. J.; Ambrose Dudley, former athletic director, Villanova; Ernie Zalejski, coach, Joliet Catholic High, Joliet, HI.; and Frank Spaniel, football, 1947-48-49 . 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 45 
gj;!:i^r'gf:!!!jrfq'^j^?^^?gr^-^^ 
bers include TIM GALVIN, M6, HENRY HASLEY, '28, and JOHN ROCAP. Tim is Past Deputy Supreme Knight and Henry is a Master of the Fourth Degree in Indiana. John is presently a member o£ the Supreme Board of tlie Knights of Columbus and has a son studying for the priest­hood. I sec these men regularly. Tim has two sons, Tim and Pat at Notre Dame. Henry's son, Jack, is also a Notre Dame student, as is my son, Tom, who is President of the Sophomore Class. A year ago last December Tim, Henry and I as Past State Deputies, were privileged to be guests of Notre Dame Council to see our sons, Tim, Jack and Tom respectively, become members of that council. Joining us on this unusual occasion was RAY MILLER, *14, of Cleveland, former Supreme Director and his son DICK, *54, a former Deputy Grand Knight of Notre Dame Council. To complete the picture was Ray's son BOB, *57, who was then scrying as Grand Knight of Notre Dame council. During the week end we visited Virginia and PAT MANION, '22, at their 

home. 
"A few ^vecks later we were privileged to attend a Testimonial Dinner given for ELI SHAHEEN, *34, by the Notre Dame Council and the attendance consisted principally of Notre Dame men, too numerous to mention. 
"In tht early 1930's five of us lived together in Chicago. The group consisted of BILL DWYER, '28, JIM ALLAN, '28, BOB VOGLEWEDE, '29 LARRY O'CONNOR and m>-self. 
"Witli the proper planning we held a reunion in Lafayette tlie week end of the N.D.-Purdue game last September. Eleanor and Bill, who is in the advertising business, came from Chicago; and Kay and Jim, who is a legal representative, came from Evanston; Virginia and Bob, who is a C.P.A., came from Detroit and Mar>' and I went down from Logansport. ^Vc \\ere guests of Fran and L^RRY O'CONNOR at their beautiful new home in I^a ­yette. Larr>* is the very successful manager of the Sears store in Lafayette. BOB EGGE&L\N of Fort AVajTie stopped by with his irife for a short \^it. Jim has a son, Jimmy, at Notre Dame and Bob has a son who is studying for the priesthood. 
As for me, "DE\"', I keep busy mth my archi­tectural profession and through the years our ofHce has been privileged to do many Catholic projects, particularly in the Lafayette and Fort Wayne Dioceses. Through the Indiana Society of Architects. I sec FRANK MONTANA, Head of the N. D. Architecture Dept, who is President of the Society. In addition to Tom at Notre Dame, Mary and I have three other sons. Dick is a High School Junior, Bill is in the eighth grade and Tim in tlie fourth grade, both at St. Bridgets. All of them help to make life interesting and to keep Mar>' ^uid me busy. In communities of this size there are many extracurricular activities and I: of course, have my share. This year among several outside interests, the Presidency of the Logansport Rotary Club and Presidency of the Logansport Board of Aviation Commissioners occupies a good deal of time." 
G\PT. GEORGE O'MALLEY, whose son is a freshman at Notre Dame, writes from his post abroad: " I am enjo>ing my work here in London as the Staff Legal Officer for Commander In Chief, 
U. S. Naval Forces, Eastern Atlantic and Mediter­ranean. This command covers all of Europe and part of the Middle East and our legal problems art numerous and varied. I have had the op­portunity to travel In Germany, Italy and Spain. 
As you know, I ^vas fortunate in having a private 
audience with the Pope last summer, along with 
Admiral 'Ward, the Judge Advocate General of 
the Navy. 
" I do not have tlie opportunity to see many 

Notre Dame men. My new boss, ADMIRAL HOL­
LO\VAY, as you probably know, has an honorary 
degree from Notre Dame, so at least I have one 
fellow alumnus In the command. 
"I am going to Madrid, Spain, on the 16th of 

April to attend an Inter-Service Legal Committee 
^Ieeting, of which I am the chairman. This 
committee is composed of the senior legal officers 
of the Army, Navy and Air Force In Europe. 'We 
are primarily concerned with the NATO Status of 
Forces Agreement, and particularly with criminal 
jurisdiction and claims. From my past visit to 
Spain, I know that knowledge of Spanish would be 
very helpful. I wish now that I had Joined 
SPIKE McADAMS* Spanish Club whHe I was at 
Notre Dame. If any of our classmates get to 
London, I would be happy to see them. My 
office address is at 7 North Audley Street, London, 
W.l, which is on Grosvenor Square, now considered 
by most Englishmen to be a part of the U. S." 
CHET ASHMAN has a note of thanks addressed to a lot of 1930 men: 
"Last October I contacted all the fellows in our 

class inviting them to participate in a rafHe and 
Festival we were having to raise funds for our 
church building fund project. All the names sent 
in from here remained in our building fund after 
expenses. It was most gratifying, and most en­
couraging to hear from 80 of the fello\\*s, and a 
little over 5275 was received. 
"A number of the fellows suggested making it 

an annual affair and I would sure like for our 
class over a period of a few years to contribute 
enough to built some permanent part of the 
church—such as the altar, sacristy, etc In other 
words something within the range we could raise. 
A plaque could state this fact, it was built by the 
class of '30. It would be a most enduring project 
and one we could all be extremely proud of 
participating in such in undertaking. 
"I v%ish you would thank all those that sent in 
donations In your column, and any Ideas you 
might have on the above project vvould be ap­
preciated." 
BO RICHARDS completes his report out of the 
Kansas City area: | 
"As to the Richards tribe, I am thankful to re­port all are well and thriving. TIic kids are growing like weeds and the "old man" Is hard put in keeping up with the pace set by them. Our oldest, David, 18, is contlnm*ng his education at Marquette. He originally planned to go to N.D. then later registered at Georgetown, my other alma mater, and finally decided on Marquette. The reason for the change is still a mystery to us, but, nevertheless, we are happy he selected a fine Cath- t. olic institution to further his education. Although we miss Dave, I am sort of relieved that he w on his own now as I had to speak softly In the household when he was around In recent months on account of his size—6' 1" and IM lbs.!! The way kids spring up these days startles me! Sue, 15, is In her junior year at St. Teresa's Academy. Kathy, 13, feels very important now that she is a freshman at St. Teresa's. My daughters are Just as much my pride and Joy as my sons—they arc * all equals in my cstimition. Lastly, Donnle Joe, 9, is the last representative of the Richards clan at St. Elizabeth School. From all accounts, he seems' to be carrying on in fine fashion from the point where his older brother and sisters left off. There are indications that I will be compelled to drag the "coaching harness" out of moth balls where they have been since I wound up a 5-ycar tenure of coaching the South team in the Annual Small Fry Bowl Game here In Kansas City. This i game was really fun as there were no rabid 
alumni or barbershop quarterbacks to worry you. If Donnie Joe persists, I may have to call on PAT CANN Y or "BOTTS" CRO\VLEY to send me their special preparation of liniment and some bicycle tape so I will be able to stay in one piece. I am still ju Government service. In which I am employed by Commodity Credit Corporation a3 an adjudicator. I also have a little private practice, in addition to teaching law three evenings a week at the College of St. Teresa, and at Junior College of Kansas City. I just started my seventh year in the teaching profession on a part time basis. Frankly, I like It "Dev" because I find it very satisfactory work. However, I still wonder at times 
NEW YORK—Senator John Kennedy was guest speaker at the 20th annual New York Club Communion Breakfast at the Park tane Hotel. Other speakers were (seated, left to right) Mayor George Vergara of New Rochelle, toastmaster; Frank M. Folsom, RCA board chair­man and 1958 Laetare medalist; and rednng President William Fallon, who recalled the club's having founded this national event in 1937 and presented a check for $2350 to Uni­versity representative Rev. William T. Morrison, C.S.C. (not shown). 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
how I sot into it since I didn't have too mucli 
enthusiasm about hitting the books in my time. 
Ma^-bc it's because we develop a deeper sense of 
appreciation of a good education as the years pile 
up on us. Before I forget, I must add that Alice, 
my wife, is still doing a magnificent job looking 
after the family and maintaining organization 
despite the bedlam that frequently occurs in any 
normal family home where youthful vigor pre­
dominates. 
"Just received a note addressed to the class of 
'30 from "CHET'* ASHMAN, which was enclosed 
in Father Bernard's letter, making an appeal for 
the mtssicns at Greenville, Tennessee. "Chet", the 
Tennessee philosophy expressed by your wife Sara 
is certainly apropos. Besides, it will be returned in 
some form here or hereafter where it will count 
the most. *'Chct" having lived my boyhood days 
in mission country dovm in Oklahoma, I can very 
well appreciate the predicament of Father Bernard 
and those of the Faith, though small in number 
arc high in spirit, in the Greenville ^{ission tcrri­
tor>'. I feel certain all 30'ers will respond gener­
ously to Father Bernard's appeal. 
"Speaking of Marquette, with particular reference 
to our good friend LARRY "MOON" MULLINS, 
who is director of athletics at that institution, I 
would like to add a few words concerning that 
fine character before closing. I realize at least 
ofHcially and as a matter of record, "Moon" grad­
uated in the class of '31. However, I believe we 
have suHicient evidence to claim him as a '30-cr on 
technical grounds and it probably would stand up 
if we had a hearing on the question. In any event, 
he's still missed in these parts by K-State and his 
friends, of which they are legion. His ser\'ices as 
an athletic director (and he is one of the best) 
arc not only missed, but his great personality as 
well. Anytime a fellow has solid friends in the 
enemy camp, so to speak, he's got plenty on the 
ball. It's a pity that guy didn't get into politics! 
It is a matter of record that "Moon" did a tre­
mendous job in bringing K-Statc out of its athletic 
lethargj- of many years standing. We all know 
he has the drive, determination and the necessary 
wherewithal and will be successful in building up 
the athletic fortunes of Marquette in due time. We 
say this not withstanding the 60-6 score of last 
week's game with Wisconsin. Aside from athletics, 
*'Moon" is a great asset to any institution in many 
ways and we are all mighty proud of him. There's 
another guy who has always looked trim and full 
of spirit over the years. I believe I asked "Moon" 
some ysars ago, to give us the "secret formula" 
and I think he said he has an exclusive on it. 
Moon, I know all the '30-ers join me in wishing 
you new successes at Marquette. 
"My very best to all the Plunketts. McGees, Englands, Keegans, O'Keefes, O'Mahoneys, Kas­sis', G'Donaghues, Higgins', Horkas, Toomeys, Smiths, Cannons, O'Connors, McCabes, MulHns', McCarth>-s, Lennons, Kuhns, Hellrungs, Kozaks, Goldens, Kegowitzs, Brennans, Redmonds, Kersjes', KenneaII>-s, VIks, Fogels, Bradleys and all the other '30-ers and their families, which I regret arc too numerous to mention as much as I would like to do so." 
TIM TOOMEY, who can be reached at American Casualty Co., Atlantic Avenue, Boston, Afass., sent along a summary* of news contributed by many eastern 1930 people: 
"We are passing on the sad news of DINNY SHANAHAN'S death to FATHER JIM RIZER in Alexandria, Va., and will ask him to ofTer a Requiem on behalf of all the class. We were advised he remembered BOB MULHALL as soon as he Iear.icd of Bob's sudden passing. Poor Dinny and yours truly both resided in Brooklyn not too far from each other, but we never did run across each other through the years. That is not strange for us. We met a friend we hadn't seen in 20 years of working in the neighborhood in New York back on the campus for a football game. 
"It pleased us no end to read the nice things BO RICHARDS had to say about our reporting of class nous's frotc the Eastern Seaboard. It is indeed a pleasant task for us to list the doings of the "Brothers" and to keep the "Lodge" posted. 
"Since out last essays we have bounced around a bit and in our wanderings have picked up a news item or two. JIM SKAHAN, an old friend of "Cardboard Palace" days, was a table companion at the Boston Club Communion Breakfast. James has established a fine law practice in Cambridge and resides in nearby Belmont. Another tablemate was JOHN V. MORAN, ever active as a leader in 
N.D. and civic affairs in Boston. "We also met CHARLEY COLTON, '29, another 
RAYMOND F. CONNORS, '31 
Ray Connors has been appointed director of public relations on the Pacific Coast for 
N. W. Aycr & Son, Inc., one of the world's largest advertising agencies. He will super­vise public relations activities for Plymouth cars in the 11 western states. The Ply­mouth Division of the Chrysler Corporation has been a client of the Ayer agency for more than 15 years. 
Ray has been in public relations since leaving newspaper work in New England. Following several years as United Air Lines public relations regional manager in New York, he directed public relations activities for Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, Ameri­can Can Company and General Petroleum Corporation on the West Coast. 
His duties during the past four years have included supervision of the annual Mobilgas Economy Run, an internationally known automotive competition; coverage of the Indianapolis 500-mile race in which Mobiloil is used by nearly all of the com­peting cars, and similar automotive events. 
In his new assignment, Ray will be in charge of national programs emanating from the West, in the area from Seattle, Wash., to Dallas, Texas, including Ply­mouth participation in network television programs, magazine features and wire serv­ice coverage. 
Ray lives in Hollywood with his wife, the former Jeannette Couture of Spring­field, Mass., and two daughters, students at Immaculate Heart School in HolIy%vood. 
sparring partner of the initial dining crew for the opening of the building in 1927. Charley has.' a fine administration assignment with the State Hospi­tal Department and is located in Taunton, Mass; 
"The holidays brought messages from BERNIE CONROY who stated he \'isited the campus for the Pitt game but missed the CANNONS. He re­marked the lads from Columbus, O., were not in town while he was in South Bend as all things were running smoothly. 
"We pray the class horse players took a few hints from the data which we furnbhed in the last issue regarding the performances vi liR. JOHN PREECE'S fine thoroughbred Arion. The speed­ster is enjoying a highly successful season at the Florida tracks. 
"A flock of cards requesting news were fonvarded to some of the real travelers here. As tisual the busiest ones were the first to answer the pleas which we scribbled. 
"A recent story in the Boston sports pages about the Mass. Rangers, one of America's great amateur hockey teams 25 years ago, told of plans for the silver anniversary reunion of the outfit made up of ranking American college players. On the team was FRANK HOLLAND, who is a native of the Bay Slate. Can one ever forget the hockey rink betweeo Walsh and Badin? The water never froze and suited bathing rather than skating. Frank, "CHICKEN" DRISCOLL, and DR. JOE CON­WAY all were Boston schoolboy hockey stars. As a matter of fact, they played as freshmen with the last University-sponsored team. Yfhen the Uni­versity played Club rather than college teams the Bostonians were allowed to play and performed like winners. 
"We had a recent luncheon with JERRY CROW­LEY, '29, and the conversation covered much ground. Jerry Is in the insurance field. '29er JIM CURRY'S daughter is attending Regis College for Ladies here. 
"DICK BLOOM sent us a nice note from Oneida, 
N. Y. He classifies himself as a spoon salesman, biit in reality he is sales vice-president of Oneida, Ltd., leading silversmiths. His oldest son Bob, '54, is %vith the firm after a hitch in_ service and younger son Ron is a junior at the Universit!?­Dick had a happy meeting last year in Minneapolis with LARRY MULLINS. Tlie Blooms and the AL SHIPACASSES joined forces when Dick and his wfe stopped in Cleveland to visit. One of Al» daughters is in the convent. He has a fine family of four including a young son. It was sure good to hear from Dick. 
We took a short trip to N. Y. over Washington'* Birthday weekend to revisit some of the old scenes where we spent 24 cro%vded years. Our first stop was at Madison Square Garden to »-atch N-D­chase N.Y.U. "down 8th Avenue." JOE ABBOTT ^>ras the only classmate we met although we chated w^th JIM McGOLDRICK, '40. JACK LAVELI^ '28, JOE FRIEL, '29, and had dinner with JOHN­NY BURNS, *3I. Our nephew ran in the National Interscholastic mile run in the Garden. JOE LORDI extended the training facilities of the 
N.Y.A.C. to us. It pleased us to learn Joe was re-elected \ice president of the club and abo of the Notre Dame Club of N. Y. Both organiza­tions will benefit from his leadership. Joe still plays a mean game of handball and for years was one of America's leading squash players. 
"The announcement of CHUCK ROHR's election to the National Alumni Board was a source of much satisfaction in these here parts. We know Chuck has served a long apprenticeship and few member* of our class have labored as diligently for the things that are Notre Dame. Chuck, save a place for me at your Army game party! 
"JIM FRIEL came through with a newsy letter just before we signed off. He rejoined the ^f^de Johnson organization some months ago and resides in Rumson. N. J. Neighbors are brother-in-law JOE LENHLAN, '29, and VINNY McCUE, the barrister from nearby Red Bank. He also occasion­ally hears from LARRY CARTON, »29, another neighbor. Anyone In Jersey who lives within 15 miles is a neighbor. Jim attended the Friendly Sons DInuer on St. Patrick's Day in N. Y. alonff with brother Joe and Joe Lenihan. There they had conversation with J. E. McCARTHY, Dean Emeritus of the College of Commerce. Jim said he was forced to %vTite. He stated he read a letter in the last Issue contributed by the Great DriscoU, his roommate in Corby-by-the Sea and Sorin.Sald statement from our Standard Bearer came as a surprise as he didn't think Chick could write. James Frltl, Jr., Is a freshman at Mt. St. Mary's, Maryland. Our attention was called by Jim to the TV program *'Nightbcat" which featured DR. DAN BRADLEY, '28." [Ed. note: see "Spotlight Alumnus," this issue. J.L.] 
FATHER THO^LAS FITZP.ATRICK, Director of the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Society wrote us about the fine certificate and folder Notre Dame men may procure to Insure continued remembrance of their relatives by the Mission priests. In thls­issue of the ALUMNUS you will see this excellent form of tribute described for you. 
This week end (March 13-16) on the campus highlighted the visit of the parents of Junior das* 

Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June, 7958 47 
studcnu. At the reception in the O'Shauglinessy Art galleries given by the College of Arts and Letters, we saw JOE MORAN, BILL BRONLANN, WALT BERXARD, HENRY HASLEY, CHARLEY CUSHWA, LOU HASLEY and DICK SULLI\^AN. 
JOE ABBOTT of Patcnon, N*. J., has been named to the Pasaic Valley Water Cooimtssion. 
Members of the 1930 class were shocked to learn of the death of DENNIS SH-ANAHAN. Dennis received a degree here from the College of Com­merce. He will be remembered in the prayers of his many friends in the 1930 class. 
1931 James T. Doyle '^ ' 902 Oakton Street Evanston, Illinois 
Comes that time again when I must sit down to the pleasant task of keeping the loyal and tvondcrful '3Iers informed of the doings of our class. Christ­mas seems but a short time away, (and will seem further away when this column will be in print) and I wish to thank the follovving out-of-tou-ncrs for their Christmas remembrances: SPIKE SULLI­VAN, FREDDIE S\\1NT, TOM ASHE, CLARK BENKENDORF, FRA^-CIS HENNEBERGER, TOM MONAHAN, F. X, MURPHY and FATHER JIM DONNELLY of Lampassas, Texas. F. X. Murphy sent a note saying he was in Chicago last summer and tried to phone. Mike, his oldest boy. is a Marine Sergeant, weighs 190 pounds. I mention this only for comparison with the campus bantam weight w^ knctv his dad as. He has one daughter in New York and two children at home with Mrs. M, Speaking oE New Mexico, *'Land of Enchantment" EDDIE RYAN is currently in Phoenix and I hope he had a chance to contact BOB KEND.\LL there. GIL SEAMAN and his wife are in Florida and this time I hope he will return with news of classmates from that arra. I ran into GENE VALLEE and JACK RYAN, '26 who had ju:t attended the N. D. Cltib of Chicago Regular Monthly Luncheon, February- -Jth. Gene M'as shortly to leave for the west coast on business. About a week later I was in the loop and had the pleasure of a comer conference with REV. C. BOURKE MOTSETT. Tliis was a real surprise. He said he had just phoned DON OTOOLE and 
managed to spoof him a bit with some foreign dialect. Bourke could not join me for lunch and I met him about an hour later. Needless to say he looks well. I called Don the same day and he mentioned seeing JOE BLANEY. He had a note from GERRY DESMOND who is now engaged in Social Serx'ice work in Kalamazoo, Michigan, and quite happy with his position. Don's oldest boy will graduate from Loras College in June. He also, wzis taking off for some fishing on the Florida Kej-s. The same day I met WALT CAHILL in the Field Building. From Olive Geis Harcombe, St. Mark's, I learned that MNCE BUSCH is president of Gcne\'a Country C!ub this year. 
As I mentioned in previous notes, I talked uith MAURICE GOODE\^ who was visiting GEORGE COSTELLO in Chicago. He made good on his promise and sent the following: 
"'Bout time I wrote you that letter I promised George Costcllo I would write to you. 
*'First of all, my sincere sympathy to you on the death of your mother, Jim. Rather late—but better than never. 
"JIM MORSE, football captain at N.D. in '56 played professional football this year with the Calgary Stampeders in the Western Canada league. He was highly regarded as a player, and was handi­capped by injuries. Our team got into the play­offs, but was defeated by the Winnipeg team, who went on to play In the Grey Cup against the Eastern Canada champions. There are many Amer­ican college players playing football in Canada, which you probably know. 
*'Am still employed as an estate officer with a trust company, and will complete 25 years service next March. Manage to get in a weekly game of golf during our lovely summer weather. Wc are supposed to have winter now, but today the temper­ature was 62 above, and no snow around. So, you see, it Is not all ice and cold up here. 
"Often think of the swell reunion you and the other fellows put on for xxs last year. It felt good to be back at N.D. after 20 years absence and see again many of my classmates. Could be that I will be attending the 30th reunion, but it is still too far away to say definitely." 
Maurice's address is No. 4 Br^'ant .\pts., 520 17th .\ve.. West, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. I have received notes from the widows of KARL 
Tliis huge shamrock was bestowed on Democratic National Chairman Paul M. Butler, '27, (center) by Sportscaster Joe Boland, *27, and Rev. John A. O'Brien, author and Notre Dame research professor, at the annual St. Patrick's Day dinner of the Ancient Order of Hiberians in South Bend. 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June^ 1958 
W. SCHERER and JOHN KOEHL thanking the class for Masses said for their late husbands at the request of the da^s. At the Class Secretaries Con­ference in January, I met FATHER CLEM KANE of our class and managed to spend some time with FATHER XUTTHEW WALSH who told some In­teresting stories of old Freshman and Sophomore Halls. He said Freshman Hall was built in six weeks, and I doubt if there is one among you who will disagree xrith him. Now the University has two dining halls. When he was president there were only 144 students HaWng meals on the campus. 
The football season is a memory, but SPIKE SULLIVAN sent a note in December reporting on his country-uide meandcrlngs; 
**At the Army game upon which TOM MONA­HAN and I collaborated in Philadelphia, It was AL STEPAN and JACK SAUNDERS for the small world department. Tom, by the way, has an eldest playing an end on the Freshman squad at Notre Dame. CARL CRONIN and his tolerant spouse, Ruth, whom we saw at the Na\y game, likewise have their first-bom in the Freshman Class. Others we saw in South Bend were ED MURRAY and CHARLEY CUSHWA. On a bit more local basis, I ran into BERT MALONEY at the Oklahoma game and had a satisfactorily extended \*isit, in­cluding refreshments, with him and his traveling squad at the wand-up In Dallas. HASKELL ASKEW liken'Ise attended both of these functions. He looks like bankers %vould prefer to look (vvithout the ballast), and I see him around. FRANK LEAHY while In Tulsa overnight spent a veiy good evening with us. He travels extensively on business but still manages to sec faithfully the entire schedule of games. 
"Now for you and Kay the very kindest greetings and good wishes." 
A news item mentioned recently that the Stepan Chemical Co., had purchased all the outstanding capital stock of NInol Laboratories, Inc., Chicago chemical manufacturer. HARRY KENNEDY'S current address is: Coca-Cola de Colombia S. A. Apartado Aereo 2077 Cali Columbia, S. A. I will appreciate a letter from you. Harry, for the next ALUMNUS. TOM GOLDEN has left Montana and is now at 423 Phelps, Prince City, Mo. RICHARD L. DONOGHUE moved across the country from S>Tacusc to San Diego, California, where he Is living at the Hotel Embassy. JOHN PULTE is now at 314 Ash Ave., Chula Vista. Calif., where he can look up an old Howard Haller, JACK LEDDY. 
TTie mdlo and TV Stations were telling of FRANCIS FEDDER, Mayor of Michigan City about the middle of February- when a surprise storm dumped over four feet of snow on the town in a matter of hours. This mcmor>' should help to cool him off next summer. 
.\s usual, I close with a plea for your help with news. All manuscripts will be cheerfully returned when requested. 
From the Alumni Office: DR. DICK BAKER, an associate professor of philosophy at the University of Dayton, got into the controvers>' about waning Catholic brainpower xrith a thoughtful article, "The Catholic Intel­lectual," in the Dayton alumni m:^azinc, drawn from his recent commencement address. His main thesis Is that with too many Catholic students faith Is regarded as a substitute for reason rather than its complement. JOHN C. BURNS wrote from Brooklyn to tell of many contacts unth friends and classmates on the coast. 
1932 ^^^^ ^' Collins 
3336 Kenmore Road 
Shaker Heights, Ohio 

The sad news of the death of two members of the Class was received recently. 
LEO FAGAN died while playing golf on January 29 at the Tulsa country club, from a heart attack. He had not been 111 and his death was entirely unexpected. 
Leo u-as president of the Braden Steel Company, and very prominent In religious and civic activities in Tul'ia since graduation. He was married and had one daughter, Suzanne, a student at Grlnnell College. He attended the 25th Reunion last June and wQi be sorely missed by everyone. 
CHARLES D. JONES died in Washington late in January but no details of his death were received. 
G. D., us he was familiarly known, went into the Air Force several years before ^VorId War H and made a wonderful record during that war and the Korean Vfiir. He rose to Brigadier General, and re­mained on active duty. He held many important command posts in the Air Force, and \vas doing strategic planning when he died. His home address was 4100 N. Richmond Street, Arlington 8„ Va. 
A Mass ^s:as said in the name of the class at Catholic University for both Leo and C. D. on March 1, as well as those arranged by the local clubs. 
From the Alumni Office: 
MICHAEL KELLY POWERS has been trans­ferred to New York as East Coast Divisional Claim Manager for Continental Casualty Company and. as a consequence, has renewed acquaintance with several classmates in the area. 
zsyeflR 
Reunion 
CLASS ^m^^S* 
;'.^^ 
^33 
193 3 Joseph A. McCabc 

I 7«9«9 2215 Lincoln ^ Evanston, Illinois 
We're running for the wire! In a couple of short weeks many—wish I could say all—of us will be gathered again under the Golden Dome, bowing our olden domes to the dictates of time . . . but still thrilling to the recaptured springtime of youth, if only for a few hours. 
This will be the last column dedicated to the prelude to reunion. So let's start off in fitting fashion with a letter from Class President GEORGE ROHRS: 
"The burst of activity between yourself. Jack Hoyt, John O'Shaughnessy, and our \*arious other class ofRccrs and representatives is refreshing— reminds me of Cape Canaveral just before the launching of Explorer No. 1. 
"Incidentally, your Class Letter brings us pretty much up to date and, according to Hoyt and O'Sltaughnessy, our program on Campus is worth striving for, especially the tours to new buildings and to LOBUND. I also think the summary of the class questionnaire which Hoyt presents is most 

' interesting. Now let's hope we can keep things soaring on high for the remaining weeks up to the big days—^June 6, 7 and 8th—and our great Jubilee Anniversary* celebrating 25 years out of Notre Dame. 
"You know, Joe, I guess it is rather sobering to most of us in the class to consider our returning to Notre Dame for the big Reunion—the Jubilee— the 25th, Just think of us as the 25 Yearers— the old ont^ as wc ourselves once thought and now it is actually us back for probably our last big Reunion together. The thoughts of this, the mem­ories of other da>-s, and other reunions, and of years to come, make a fellow think and pray God in thanksgiving for how fortunate wc are and how fortunate we have been for our families, our parents and now our wives and children—and, of course, for our Notre Daaie. 
" I have many times felt very inadequate in what I have been able to give back to Notre Dame for 

* what she gave me. Sorta sum it up as my Sunday ^fissaI docs in the words, *What return iian I give for the favors you have given me?'. Money, or at least money alone, can't be the answer here for it is something deeper we owe to Notre Dame—it is 3 desire and an ambition to work and to serve as lajmcn to carry forth the word and to help the University in its tremendous work. 
"On Afarcli I, 1958 Father Hesburgh announced a 10-ye.ar $66,000,000 development program. It is 

>' the biggest fund drive in the 116-ycar history of Notre Dame and we of the Class of 1933 in our Jubilee Anniversary- Year are the first class of the older graduates that can show the world what wc think of this appeal. We can prove that Notre Dame men believe in this appeal and that Notre Dame men will put it over—and we as individuals, and according to our own circumstances can make our personal class gilt our own testimony of our gratitude for her gifts to us over the years. The amount is up to each indiWdual—we should judge it by the axiom, 'This is my greatest gift to Our Lady—my Notre Dame.' 
**Thacks, and congratulations for your fine work. "P.S.—Bishop O'Hara wishes he could come 

ST. PETERSBURG-TAMPA—The Club was host to Rev. Thomas J. O'DonncU, CLS.C, associate director, and Jim Frick, area director of the Notre Dame Foundation, with a dinner March 6. Left to right: Father Thomas Cobeavy, Clearwater, club chaplain; A. J. Ellis, Father O'Donnell; Roy J. Dceb, club pre^dent; Guy Pcrenich, Clearwater; Richard Dceb, and Frick. 
talk to us, but —just too darn many graduations in Philadelphia, June I - 15th." 
George mentions the summari' of the class questionnaire prepared by JACK HOYT; here it is, and I'm sure you'll find it interesting: 
"For those of you %vho thought well enough of our idea to make a class sur\*ey through a class questionnaire, here are some of the results that have been compiled to date: 
"Fa%-6rite magazines are Saturday Evening Post and Time. Favorite radio programs arc News and music Favorite TV programs are Sports, Westerns and Como. 
"Some seven members of our class have made discoveries in either science or medicine. "Approximately TA% of those responding are still bachelors alter twenty-five years. "We have one graduate with 11 children, one with 10 children and five families with 8 children. 
"Politically the class is almost evenly divided as between the two major parties, with the balance of power in those eleven who indicated they were "independents." Only five members of the class have ever held public office. 
"Strangely, only 45% have indicated activity in local alumni activities, and of those who evidenced interest less than 37</o of tliem ever held local alumni office. 
"On the question of the effects of cafeteria t>-pe dining on students' manners and social graces, the class opinion indicated an adverse effect on the present type of cafeteria dining service. 
"Opinion was overwhelming in indicating that the present cost of attending Notre Dame was beyond the reach of most people. 
"In keeping with a fact long recognized among insurance actuaries, mothers long outlive fathers. This should afford iiUcresting debate at the re­union.** 
While we're on the summary, let me express our thanks for the way you responded to the question­naire. I don't think there's any doubt that it re­flects a picture of a substantial portion of the class . . . what they think, what they like, how they are living. Sounds like an oversimplification? Perhaps so, but I %vant to emphasize the point that, in direct mail trade thinking, if you want a true indication of what your market actually thinks of you or your product or your industry, send *cm a poll which they don't have to sign. Sure, you'll get a certain percentage of oddballs who'll bust a ballpoint to be funny; but the majority of those who answer (granted there may not be many— 2</o is considered pretty good) will level ^vith the questionnaire. 
Some other column when wc have more cause for ruminating, and less pressure to dwell on room-mating in 1933, perhaps a further study of the class quiz m::y fill same space and arouse a little reader interest. 
Right now—let's go into the reunion again. At the risk of getting the here-we-go-again reaction, I'll run through the schedule as It looks from here. We told you in the last golden-prod letter that JOHN McNAMARA has consented to play the martyr-hero by accepting the local chairman of arrangements role. He'll nail down the last minute details, but in general the plot is that we have the class dinner somewhere on campus Friday nigfit, class Masses Saturday morning (for those %villins and able to get up—the new fasting rules come in mighty handy here!) the Silver Anniversary lunch Saturday noon, where we are the guest of President Hesburgh, the state dinner Saturday night (and I hope ever>"one is in a pretty good state) and the official Class Mass Sunday, with special prayers for the suffering who have to return to the cast of I Remember ^famma. 
For the last time wc strongly urge all of you to give your all to get back for the 25th. It's the BIG ONE!! Wc only get one—don't miss it. Most of us have business meetings or household concerns which can trap you into passing up the reunion— but pass them up for this once: look the boss (vocational or avocational) right in the eye and say "I'm going back 25 years." \Vhile they stop to think that one over, grab your briefs, brief case, case of? (Coke, 7-Up or any other refresher) and hit the road. 
When We left to buck the world, it was a pretty sorry place—and that was about the only buck around. We've weathered 25 years and done a pretty dam good job of it . . . let's go back and tell each other about it. (Exaggerations up to 100% permitted.) 
Now to get to the response to our last mailing. The deadline for this issue of the ALUMNUS came hard upon the date of our mailing, so we don't have too many ansivers yet—but we did pick up $500, in spite of the small time inter\-al! That gives us a total in the pot of $2200—we're half way toward our goal. 
Lots of the fellows we know will send theirs in later, so we'll give you a full report at the reunion—or later if they are still coming in. Con­sensus of answers favors the ^foreau Seminary gift, so we're inclined to make that the form our dona­tion will take. We'll have final dope on that at the meeting. 
Here are some of the replies received so far: JULES DE LA VERGNE, 413 Pert Marquette BIdg., New Orleans: 
"I prefer the seminary. Regards to all the gang." FRANCIS A. WERNER. BW DicKnson St.. New London, Wis.: "Our son Spike, our oldest, finished Culver and is now at N.D.; Jim, 18, is a senior at K.ALL; Mike and Beth are at home." 
Here's one of our most prized correspondents; the good and very active pastor of St< Mary's Missions at Lampasas. Texas — FATHER JIM 
Notre Dame Atumnus, May-June, 1958 49 
DONNELLY, one of our dassmates-of-tlie-cloth. He 
«iyi: *'I finally got ihc Bishop to promise he vnH 
get someone to take my place for June 8th. I'm 
going to be with you for the reunion. I 'will 
contact Lucicn and perhaps wc can malte the trip 
Cogethcr. I do hope our gift will be to the ne^v 
Seminary." (That should help clinch the matter! 
JAif.) That's really good news, Fathei^-all the 
boys will be anxious to see you and hear more 
about the great work you are doing down there 
in the missions among the shepherds, espcdally 
about tlie soil conser\:ation program, credit union 
and other projects you've launclied. 
Fatlicr's lellcr mcnlluned Lucien. He *\*as re­ferring to our class Midwest VP, LUCIAN S. KEMPF of Lindsay, Oklahoma, who sent an out­standing contribution of $100, with the following news: "Just finished building a new warehouse of 12,000 square feel. Family is all well, and pray that my boys will be in the classes of '65 and '68. I hear from Father Jim Donnelly (a brother act!) in Lampasas quite often. He is doing ivonderftd work with his mission. I suggest we use the gift for Morcau Seminarv* in honor of Bishop O'Hara." Thanks a million, Lucian, and *\c'll certainly pass the word along to the committee. 
SAAIUEL Y, HYDE, manager. Industrial Ad­vertising, American Can Company, CreStwood, 
N. Y.: "Apparently the need is great, so I'm making a second contribution ($25.) And the top of the morning to you on St. Patrick's Day." Tlianks, Sam—wc can use it. 
By a remarkable coincidence wc received a donation from ED ROXrVS, 42 ^rcKinIcy Rd., Forbes Park, Makati, Riwl, Philippines. In the same mail as the others we've quoted. Puzzler: how did our letter get TO Ed in time for him to get a rcplv BACK to us with those from the states? JOHN O'SHAUGHXESSV played Shcriock and pointed out that Ed must be answering the first letter we sent out, some months ago! ^^ust be something in this telepathy btulncss! Thanks worlds, Ed, for your $50 contribution. 
Incidentally, all the men who replied made contributions, all of at least $10—so in order to save space we'll just mention the exceptional ones. Before 'we leave Ed, he has four children and is managing partner of Roxas y Cia, which my high school Spanish translates as Roxas and Company. 
JERRY GREER, manager of Sales Equipment Division, International Har\'estcr Company, in Melrose Park, III., informs us he just got back to this Chicago rangcland after being located at another branch elsewhere. He writes: **This $25 donation along u-ith my earlier one should equal the 'dollar a year' since I got out (sure does. Jei^thanks loads!). Saw JOHN PENOTE and NORM GREENEY recently. Norm will be back for reunion, but John will be In Europe at the time." 
ROGER BRENNAN, 21015 Claythom Rd., Shaker Heights, Cle\'cland 22, O., passes w*ord along that liis family stands at four bo>-s and three girls. 
HUGH COLOPY, 829 Second Nat'l Bldg., Akron. O.: "Have practiced law In Akron since graduating from U. of Miclilgan Law school in 1936, other than four years In service." Hugh has one son. 
PAT BURNS, 7U N. Union St., Natchez, Afiss., with 2 sons, 6 daughters: "I sec very few N.D. men in this area, Kiccpt the eight that live in Natdiez. I will be glad to renew friendships with many such as JACK HOYT. JR., ED ECKERT, ED GAUS­SELIN, LUCIEN KEMPF, AWRTIN LINSKY and JACK TRAVERS. I expect to bring my wife Edith to the reunion, but not the eight children." (Aw come on, Pat—why not?) 
Along with his donation, TOM DO^WS, 219/= 
S. Barstow St., Eau Claire, Wis., sent along a very Interesting Icttir: 
"The enclosed check, while not large, should be of some assistance to your committee in reaching its goal of $5000.00. I note with interest some of the names listed on the committee and particularly PAT CRONVLEY, JOE McCABE and TOM KEN­NEDY. Should you see them please extend my regards to tlicm. During the war while I was in Chicago with the Ordnance I attended several cell meetings in various oHices of members and Pat Crowley \vzi one of them. As I recall FRANK CROU ^ was also an interested part>*. It seems to me that cither you or your brother was also interested. At any rate should you see some of these lads, say howdy for me. What ever happened to DON DRAPER? He and I were pretty good friends except when pla>*ing against each other in bridge. 
"Not long ago, I injured both of my knees and of late I am having arthrtic attacks in knee cap 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, J958 
MliHTflLUIllllllS 
ANTHONY F. ANZLOVAR, '34 

Late last year the Mcrcast Manufactur­ing Corporation of La Verne, California, announced the appointment of A. F. Anz­lo\'ar as \-icc president and general manager of the corporation. 
Tony's ad\*anccment \vith Mercast, west-cm producer of precision castings by the frozen mercury investment casting process, was part of a program of expansion through which the firm, according to his public statement **plans to continue the production and delivery of structural aircraft parts with the critical metallurgical properties demanded by the nation's aircraft and mis­siles manufacturers." 
The company is a subsidiary of the Mer­cast Corporation of California and is affili­ated \vith the Atlas Corporation of which Floyd B. Odium is president 
Prior to the opening of Mercast in 
1955 Tony was special assistant to Everard 
F. Kohl, N.D. '25, inventor of the frozen mercury casting process; assisted • in the organizing of Kolcast Industries, Cleve­land, Ohio, (the first frozen mercury cast­ing company) and assisted in the organ­ization of Industrial Metal Castings Com­pany, Cleveland, the company which later became Mercast Manufacturing. 
After recciwng his A.B. degree at Notre Dame Tony attended the Harvard School of Business Administration. During World War II he served the army as a captain. He -was on the staff of General Friedenall of the 2nd Army, and General Eichelbcr­ger of the 8th. 
He is the father of six children, Kathleen, Patricia, Richard, Kenneth, Anthony, Jr., and Thomas. Tony is a resident of West Covina, California, where he resides with his wife, the former Eileen Hennessy, at 2814 Mesa Drive. 
and joints and frankly its just a darn nuisance. I certainly hope it will clear up in time so that I will be able to attend the reunion. Of course, none of us are as young as we used to be and I presume we must all pay for our early pranks and foolishness. 
"I have little news to convey except to say that my I6-ycar-old daughter who attends Regis Academy and in her second year has recently qualified for a sbc weeks summer scholarship at Lax'al University in Quebec to continue her studies In French. I don't know as yet if she will attend, as she is going to be 16 next month and may be a little young < for that much advancement. Speaking of French it reminds mc of MIKE O'HAR/V of Menominee, Michigan. Remember Mike? I understand he has done very well. 
"Unless something unforsecn happens I hope to attend the reunion in June." 
Thanks, Tom—we'll be looking forward to seeing you at the reunion. Be sure to come along, stiff or not; you'll be one with a justified excuse! 
Our deadline calls tor closing this now—apologies to all \%'ho have sent donations and letters that are ca route. We'll list them elsewhere. 
Once again let's all make every effort to get back to reunion. Increase your prayers for your classmates, living and dead. After all, one of the first tilings done on arrival back at campus is to look up at the Lady on the Dome and murmur a prayer of thanks that She has protected us during many a trj-Ing period, and brought us back after a quarter of a century .. . a little balder, a little fatter; but still young In heart and In her love. See you in June! 
RICHARD C. WALTERS has been named chief clerk of tl;c South Bend District of the Northern Indiana Public Serxicc Co. 
1934 ^" ^^^^^^ ^^«y 
18843 Inglewood Avenue Rocky River, Ohio 

From tlie Alumni OHice: 
THOMAS J. HARRINGTON, construction engi­neer of the Scranton district, Pennsyh-ania De­partment of Ifighwa>-s, has been appointed assistant district engineer. 
103 5**  Franklyn C. Hochrcltcr  702 Scarlett DriveTowson 4, Maryland  \  
Herewriting  we in  are again, the second  gang, snowbound blizzard of '58.  at this  We all  

thought that we "had It" in Fdiruary, but March 19 hit Baltimore (along with a few other commu­nities) with 2 feet of wet snow that took down 50 ft. trees, utility poles and wres all over town. We were among the lucky ones with only a few hours of power loss. Some people still have no heat or lights after three da>'s, and telephone service Is coming back slowly too. 
As we said in February', **as long as the fire %\'ood, food and Scotch hold out we can hole in for a long time." And how was ^-our first week of Spring? 
In January we made a fast trip to Notre Dame for the Class Secretaries meeting and found two other 'SSeis on campus. PAT FISHER was at-* tending his last Almnnl Board meeting and JtSl SHEILS was out for his first session as a new Board member. Our ou-n conference was attended by 31 secretaries. Tliey came from as far West as California, as far East as New York, and as far South as Virginia and West Virginia. 
Your Scribe ivas privileged to lead an open forum on tlie "Election and Role of Class Oflicers." And may we say right now that organization-and­functioii-wlse your own Class of '35 Is up with the **• best and far ahead of the pack. Our reunions were again the talk of the conference, our current Treasury \%*as considered in awe, and our class pro­motion In anticipation of our 25th drew many a question. We were proud to be your representative, fellas! 
We made contact with DAN YOUNGERMAN on Friday and Dan came out that evening to go over a few details so that our notes would be accurate for our meeting Saturday. Later on we will give you his financial statement as of January 15, 1958. But, first we u-ant to send you all a letter. 
Dan showed us the draft of a letter which PAUL FERGUS had planned to send to you, but we lliougtit it iiiighl appear m ttic *35 cnliiiiin to 
> advantage. For ono thing—look at the postage wc arc saving! The tnatctial is a lUtlc old, but the point can still be made—PROMOTION FOR THE 25th REUNION. So, Iicre goes. 
Paul heads his letter **TIie BIG Meeting of the BIG Minds or How a Committee Flows Over a Week end.^* In other words, this Is a report of the class oflicers meeting in South Bend the end of October, 1957. 

"Four thousand miles had been belted—^THE ' MEETING A^-as closing—and 4,000 miles were again to be belted! 
"Whzt a MEETING! Ever\-onc agreed it was a ^tEETING! Standing in the crowded lounge of the Morris Inn, with a Sunday breakfast of hominy grits already tightening against his Louisiana waist­line, C/\MILLE GRAVEL, in no uncertain tone, voiced, 'I'm awfully glad Tve traveled 3,000 miles to be at this IMPORTANT MEETI.NG!' 
'•TliU sentiment was echoed by ED VAN HUIS­SELING (less 2.800 miles!). Both men were bi­focaled by llie worthy president from Racine, (JIM HAMILTON to you non-dues-paying-members), who in his usual innocence, proffered his agreement that this was a REAL IMPORTANT MEETING*. PHIL PURCELL couldn't \-ocaI his feelings to this world-shaking thought because Phil was busy voicing his own thoughts to our wives, which activity he had been busily engaged in since arriving Friday afler­

> nonn. (What a salesman!) 
"Such general agreement of tilings .accomplished has never been equalled by any committee: Re­union, NATO, Lawn Tennis, or otherwise. Little BILL RYAN, with his high forehead newly varnished, started to comment on beating Pilts­burgli; but DAN YOUNGERMAN, by a quick and not too subtle interruption, ran the item of im­portance lo the top of the flag pole with the gemune salute of 'It's the BEST RE^VL IM­

- PORTANT MEETING this committec^s ever Iiad!' "YOUNGERMAN'S tremendous summation was the climax! Evcr\*onc just looked at each other and silently but thoughtfully nodded their heads, and with firm handclasps wisiitng God-speed and quick return, departed witli committee halos hovering over their heads. "What gave rise to this meetuig of the minds? Wliat happened that made these men feel so strongly? "Let us go back to Friday afternoon, October 25. TIic pbcc: Elouisc and BILL RYAN*s new rccrea­( tion room. In attendance arc: Louise and JIM HAMILTON, Tes and KURT SIMON. Doroiliv and Dx\N YOUNGER.M.VN, Til and ED VAN HUISSELING, and Lenorc and PAUL FERGUS— all anxiously awaiting good ole PHIL PURCELL 
flying in from Salt Lake and C/\MILLE GR^WEL flying in from Alexandria. 
"Sweet thoughts, kind thoughts, about the ex­pecttd arrivals flowed back and forth. Ilors d'oeuvTcs of creamed hrrring, shrimp, nuts, olives were tasted between flights to Ryan's new bar. An hour flows by. Sweet thoughts, kind thoughts, continue to flow when through Ryan's phone flows the news that Purcell and Gravel's planes are 'flowing' lalc! 

"Another hour flows by and cveoone is flowutg to the bar, and flowing from liors d'ocuvres, when in flows Purcell. Much flowing is now done by Phil to flow up to the flowing ol cvcr>'one else's flow, while everyone else flows more to flow better. In the meantime, we learn that Gravel will Slav in Chicago and flow in Saturday A.>L (A collect call to FR^VNK HOCHREITER flows in­completely because circuits to Baltimore are flowed up!) A flow to the restaurant and back to Ryan's and soDouno into the night! 
"Saturday's luncheon at Leonore and PAUL FER­GUS' was an hileresting repetition of the night before, while Saturday evening at the country club put the cork in the bottle. 
"Wiich brings us up to Sunday with Mass at Sacred Heart Church, breakfast at the Morris Inn, and the MEETING! Gravel, Purcell, Van Huis­scling, Youngerman and Hamilton made their respective reports. C()rita::ts with '35ers in cacli territory* have and are being made and the money is 'flowing' in—(Scribe's note: This is a flow?) .Attached is a complete report." 
And now, if you will all rise and quietly sing "Flow Gently S\veet Afton" you will get into the mood for a Class Officers annual meeting! Thanks much, Paul. We hope that the Vceps around the countrj' will continue to ride that *'jet-5tream" and get money in the bank. 
Shortly after our ie:urii to Baltimore, Dan sent iLS a corrected flnancial statement bringing us into focus as of Januar/ 1, 1958, with an early Januar>' contribution added to it. So, here wc go. 
We closed 1957 as follows: 
Balance at end of 1956 „„ _ 5 980.68 Contributions during 1957 — 6M.50 
Gross Receipts. December 3I.~ $l.&}5.t8 Expenditures—1956, 1957 283.38 
Net fVssets- Dec. 31. 1957. „. $1,361.80 

An $8.00 contribution came in during January, before the financial report was written. That meant th::t a^ of January 15, 1958 wc had on hand $1,369.80. Not bad, but far from what we need to go into our TAVEN"rY-FIFTH REUNION in two years witli easy minds. 
Remember wc had hoped to hit the $5,000 mark by '60. Tliere is no reason why wc could not make it if wc all did just our part—no mure no less. We arc 500. Multiply that by $10 (the $2 a year wc asked from ever\-onc in the cla^s) and you have the $5,000. 
Do yvu know how many had contributed by the end of last year? Not even hall of the class. There were 169 contributors or 33.8% of the 500. And how did they contribute? Well, here is their breakdown: • 
One man sent in $61; another $35; and another $30; 2 at $25; 5 at $20; 4 at $15; 3 at $12; 100 at $10; 1 at $7; 8 at $6; 4 at $5; 1 at $+.50; 7 Et $*; 29 at $2; and 2 at $1. This report takes into account the $$3.00 received in January which broiight A former $3.{X) man up to the $10.00 class. 
Well, gang, how do you shape up in the tally? Arc you among the SJ% who are too busy or not interested in identifying with the class of *35? Or are you among the 33% who arc on the* beam because they want to be "counted in" as Io^*al '35crs? How about the wives of '35? Why not ask your husbands if they have sent in that check to DAN YOUNGERMAN? We'd like to think that w- have you with us. If every wife who reads this column made it her business to give her husband a prod, our bank account would sky­rocket! Well, girb—will you do your part? We are depending on you! PLE^\SE DON T LET US DOWN! 
Last Jauuar>* wc had a surprise call from a long lost soul—"THE MOL." that's right, JERRY MOLINARL Jerry was in town for the company he is representing—Buflfalo Metal Container Corp. Wc told him that wc were rehearsing for "Witness for the Prosecution" 30 he drove into town from his motel to meet us at the theatre. After re­hearsal wc had a swell \-:sit, and next night we found he had moved into the Congress Hotel where the theatre is located. Jerry still has the hotel in Onconta, N. Y. hut he is trying selling. Hey "MOL" wherc's your class dues? 
Word comes through that BILL FARRELL is with the Industrial and Development Commission in Lowell, Ma*,5. 
And so wc come to the address changes and a few "lost souls." Incidentally, DON JACOB!, from whom we have heard nothing in many years, dropped us a fast note on March 6. Wc quote: "Notice in your write-up that you have the 'arm' out for MIKE SHEEDY. His brother, Dan, was in yesterday and advises me that his address is: M. M. Sheedy, Jr., Hacienda El Palmar, Estada .Aragua, Venezuela, South America- Hope lo sec you in 1960." 
A word about Don, He is apparently still an important part of Jacobi Brothers in Buffalo. This is one of the Writcrn New York town's better clothiers. A feu weeks ago a Baltimore girl mem­ber of the U, S. Olympic ice skating team was on the show ahead of our own weekly TV stint. During the interview she mentioned that there was a "Jacobi" from BulTalo on the U. S. team going abroad. We got a note to her as wc went on the air asking her to wait. It turned out that her skating companion on the U. S. Olympic team was 
TERRE HAUTE—Club had a very successful dance January 11 in the Wabash Room of the Tcrre Haute House. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June, 1958 51 
our Don*s sttn. Ar-2 wc correct. Don? Maybe this way wc can gi-» a long letter from you about what you Iiavc btrn dolni;—Including that iiislniction in the Adirojidacks. And how about yoiir dues for the next two years? \W appreciated getting you on the beani for the original $2.00. 
Here are ihc address changes: 
IRWIN "FOOTS" DAVIS, St. Francis College. Lorello, Pa.; MAURIE FAIRHEAD, 1100 W. Matthews. Joneshoro. Arkansas: JOHN GL/\XZ­NER, 412 S. ^\'ashington. Trenton, Illinois; JOHN JORDON, Athletic Dt-pt., Notre Dame, Indiana; RAY MARGRETT, 483 Lakeview Hark. Rochester. 
X. Y.; BILL MEAD, 6918 Lake Steilacoom Drive. S.E., Tacoma 99. Washington; WALT POUXRS, 3609 Lockslcv. I'aEadena. California; MAURIE ROARCK, 1201 W. Murray. Macomb. Illinois; ARMONDE ALBO, 4418 .\. Howard. Spokane 18. Washington; FRANK BROEMxVN, 7571 Aycrs and /Vsbun.-, Cindnnati. Ohio; JOHN CRUNICVN, 4909 Adams. Chicago 44. Illinois: JIM DWYER, 2811 Dorland Ave.. Berea. Ohio; MAURIE GERWE, 6237 Liibur Lane. Cincinnati. Ohio; BROTHER MARTIN GILES, St. Edivard's High School. 13.500 Detroit .^vi-., Lakcwood 7. Ohio; ARMAND KEL­LOGG, 714 "B " Str-ci. Rock Springs. WVoming; BILL KENNEDY, 409 N. Chestnut St., New Hanip­ton. Iowa; Hon. BILL MILLER, Congress of the 
U. S.. House of Rep., Suite 422. House Office Bldg.. Washington. D. C ; JOHN MURPHY, Bawillc Rd.. Locust Valley, New York; AL \'ITTER, 4100 \'in­cennes Place, New Orleans 25. La.; JOE BROPHY, 55 Morningside Drive. Ossining. New York; NELSON REESE, G30-30th Street. South Bend. Indiana; BROTHER RO.MANUS RINGWELSKT, St. Edward's High School. 13.500 Detroit Ave.. Lakewood. Ohio: JOE WASHKO, 313 Tninko Road. Akron. Ohio; JOE CONLON, 832 New Scotland Ave., Albany 8. New York; ANDY McMAHON, 43 Madeline Drive. R:ven.ide .15, Rhode Island; GEORGE MELINKOVICH, 607 Radcliff Avenue, Pacific Palisader.. California; VIC METTLER, 521­165th Street. Hammond, Indiana; JOHN MOUROS, 1800 S. Main Street. Mishawaka. Indiana: JOHN RYAN, 1020 Miami Road. Wilmeltc, Illinois; JOHN TOWNE, St. Vincent's Home, Legonier, Indiana; JOHN WINTERBOTTOM, 4977 S. Double Drive, Temple City. California; JOHN WADKE, Box 50 RD 33, Fairfax, Virginia. 
We would like to extend to the family of STURLf\ C.\NALE the sincere sjinpathy i>f the "'35 class. Slurla died of a heart attack on Novem­ber 11. 1957. To his wife and son our very 
special condolences and an assurance of our 
prayers for Sturia in the future. 
Has anvonc heard anything of FRANK Mc 
lAUGHLIN? He 1%-as last heard of at 1708 N. 
24th Place, Phoenix, .Arizona. In December he was 
stated as "unclaimed." Tlien In February* wc got 
some code that meant nothing to us. So, where 
is .McLxVUGHLIN? 
Our vcr\- good friend JOHN C/\CKLEY just moved from the .Alumni Office to the Notre Dame Foundation. He has been replaced by JOHN L.-\UGHLIN who wc met when we were on campus in January-. We'll miss CACKLEY—he was truly our friend for he understood the '35 problems and dreams. But he has moved on and in his future we wish him well. JOHN LAUGHLIN Is new but able. As the new Managing Editor of the ALUM­NUS he will need patience and good humor—we wish him succes-s in bis exercise of both. 
Let's have your letters—wc can't write a column without them. 
193 6 Robert F. Ervin 
1329 Kensington Road 
Grosse Pointe Park, Mich. 
Your secretary will take part of the blame for the blank space in the last ALUMNUS where our class column should have been. Even though I had very- little news at dead line time I should have gotten something in there if only to remind you that most of our class looks at that space ever\' issue and they're hoping to sec some news about you. 

L/\RRY PALKOVIC, our most consistent cor­respondent, wrote about seeing ANDV PILNE\"S Tulane team play the Army and the fine battle the Green \Vave gave the Cadets. Andy certainly dcserx-ed his citation as Southeastern Conference Coacli of the Year. Larrv had a reunion with CHRIS MATTHEWS after the game. FRED G.ABRIEL also wrote a letter in which he told us of his completion of a year at the University of Pennsylvania postgraduate scliool in Radiolog>'. FRED ARMINGTON, now a Na\y captain in the Medical Corps, was taking an ad\'anced course in CardIolog\- whil^ Fred was there. Fred's brother. LEW GABRIEL, is a surgeon in Allentown. Pennsylvania. Nice to hear from you Fred, and don't delay too long before another letter. 
BILL WALSH, in a Christmas card, told us that HOWIE CUSACK is a fellow townsman In Yonkers. New York and is manager of the Travelers' In­surance office there, where Bill is practicing law. 
NORV CASPER'S Christmas card pictured his 
family which row consists of eleven children, the ^ 
youngest arriving ir. 1957. I wonder If Norv has 
the largest family In our class. 
During the past few weeks wc have had welcome 

visits from BILL BAYER, who Is manager of the 
Wax ^Division of Quaker State Oil, and FRtVN 
JOYCE, who is Vice President of the Maumec 
Chemical Company In Toledo. Ohio. We certainly 
hope that other clas>mates who might be in town 
will give iLs a ring either at work (Parke, Davis 
& Co.) nr at home (TU 2-5332). /\s part of my t 
welcome to the Motor City, LEE MOOR^^AN and 
ART CRONIN entertained with a swell Chris-
Craft ride on the Detroit River and a lot of fun 
at the Bay View Yacht Club. Lee and Art are 
co-owners of the boat and have themselves quite 
a time on it. 
As M>me of you may have noted in the last issue of the ALUMNUS, the biennial conference of class secretaries was held at Notre Dame, January- 17 and 18. Tins, was not only an enjoyable meeting but ver>- instructive and I came away from It with the certainty that our class has lagged behind the parade very badly, i was amazed at the fine organization and closely knit communications of many other classes. While I realize that all of us are extremely busy and we have more than enough meetings, correspondence, llOth centur%- red tape and family responsibilitic-., it is a shame that our class as a class has fallen apait so badly. It seems to me that as we grow older the need for ^ a better organization increases. It is unbeliev'able that the members of cur class would be any less ­Interested In what happens to our classmates than any other class. 
I learned at this meeting, to my dismay, that the Alumni /Vssoclation sometime ago urged all classes to hax'e a president, four vice presidents, a secretar>' and a treasurer. Most of the classes which are closely knit and whose news items in the ALUMNUS are sizable ever>' issue are so organized. The purpose of the four vice presidents is to coordinate and stimulate class Interests in their respective regions. Thus one is located In the East, one in the Midwest, one in the West and one in the South. It is also recommended that if possible the treasurer or the secretarv- he located In South Bend. Tlie reason for this is to permit closer liaison with the main Alumni office, to coordinate planning for reunions, to more easily take care of having Masses said for our deceased classmate^ and many other activities which arc essentia] to good class operation. i 
Let's contrast this with our class. A\'e have two 

TULSA—This was the scene as the Notre Dame Club of Tulsa held its second annual retreat at the Benedictine Heights College with The Very Reverend Erick Beavers, Ph.D., (center, seated) as retreatniaster. Twenty-four members attended the one-day retreat which started with Holy Mass at 7:30 A.M. and ended with Benediction of the Most Holy Sacrament at 5:30 P.M. 
52 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
ntliccrs, JIM SHERRY, our president, is in Flint, 
Michigan. I am botli <ecretar\' and treasurer. While 
I cvpcct to talk this whole matter over with Jim 
one of these da>*5, I would appreciate hearing from 
you to sec if you fee! fhat it would be worth while 
to exert tho effort to get better organization. Tf 
so Jim should come up with a - nominating com­
mittee which would select a suggested slate of 
officers and you could approve these by replying 
to a special mailing to be sent out of the Alumni 
Office. From where 1 sit, I think the effort would 
be worth wliile. Evcr>- other attempt has failed 
to improve our column, to keep better track of 
our class, to proWde larger attendance at reunions 
and to make us feel that we are still a unit. 
The quality of our class makes it worth salvaging. 
No better testimonial could be made for this state­
ment than the fact that in the past two years, 
two of the Class of 1936 have been presidents of 
the Xotrc Dame Alumni /Vssociation. first JOE 
0*NEILL and now- MIKE UV\'DEX. Congratu­
lations to both o[ them and special he^l wishes 
to ^like as he starts lu> presidential year. 
In closing, your 5ecretar>* would like to give special tribute to JOHN CACKLEY ^who has recently been made /Vssistant Director of the Notre Dame Foundation after many successful and hard working yeafi as Managing Editor of the ALUM­NUS. John has contributed greatly to the Alumni Association and we know lie will be equally i-fTeclive with the Foundation. 
From the Alumni Office: American Legion National Commander JOHN S. GLEASON, JR., addressing the student body of St. Mary's College in O'LaughUn Auditorium recently, charged that the teaching of .American histor>' and gox'ernment has been tragically neglected ill primarv' and seco-idaiy schools. Ife cited the rise in juvenile delinqueno' and crime and cases of collaboration in Korea as evidence of this failure and urged schools to instill patriotism and pnde in country*. 
A typographical error in the last issue uwk 20 years from the record of JOHN J. HOBAN. The first Republican to be elected State's Attornc>' in his county in 33 (not 13) years. John has been appointed by Illinois Governor William G. Strat­ton to a committee to revise the state's tax laws. 
JAMES J. SHERRY, JR., has been named Assistant General Production Manager of the Buick Motor Division of General Motors. 
ROBERT T. BURKE, JR., has written and wishes his friends in know "that 1 am alive and well and as happy as could be under those circumstances." 
I Q^ 7 Joseph P, Quinn 
•'"" P.O. Box 275 Lake Lcnape Andover, Ne^v Jersey-
Many thanks to the "wtll wishers" for their cards of sympathy on my appointment as Secrctarj* —the return cards and notes are appreciated. I am also going to ignore Cackley's introduction and bis "cultural comments.*' 
The Secretary can finally report on the officers elected by the Committee appointed at the fracas at the Rock (The 20th Reunion). President. JERRY CLAEYS, JR., Eastern Vice Pres.. BILL FALLON; .Midwestern Vice Pres., CHARLES "BUCKY" JORDON; Far Western Vice Pres., AL SCH­WARTZ; Southern Vice Pres.. WIL KIRK; and Treasurer, ROBERT WEAVER. 
All the fine officers have been notified of their appointment and election and already we have had a volunteer for all the odd ball jobs. AVIL KIRK will go along with anything and he Is glad they gave him the wide open spaces to cover. In his acceptance note, Wil, on the letterhead of the Texas Bank & Trust Co.. Dallas, reports that BOB SIEGFRIED and his dad were in town for the General Contractors Convention, only mention­ing how young Bobby's dad looks. Wil had taken a trip to NYC and put up with all the PINKY CARROLL children for the night. .Another visitor to Dallas was TOM HUGHES, with Continental Can. Tom also sent tlie Secrctar>' a card from Florida stating he was "on business" and would answer morr when he relumed (what year). Kirk also has a brother, FATHER aVSSLVN, with the Franciscan Padres—whlcli group owns about half of the good land in Jersey. 
PABLO SHEEDY, r.cir tonic peddler, reports plenty of winter and snow In Buffalo after he had 
ARTHUR L. CONRAD, '35 

.Author of a recent article in Extension magazine entitled "Profile of a 20th Cen­tur>' Capitah'st," .Art Conrad is president of the Heritage Foundation, Inc., and has been president, of the National Institute of Professional Ser\iccs, Inc., (publishing and public relations) since 1949. 
Since taking his A.B. at Notre Dame Art has received an Ed.M. from DcPaul, an LL.D. from Loyola, and has done post­graduate work at Northwestern. 
In its relatively short histor>- the Heritage Foundation has had the distinction of pub­lishing several "best sellers," including Clarence Manion's The Key to Peace, se­lected by the American Legion, as part of its Americanism Program, to be placed in even* library- in high schools, colleges and universities throughout the United States; The Case for Right-to-Work Laws by Rev. Edward A. Keller, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, and Monsignor John Tracy ElhV classic 
American Catholics and the Intellectual 
Life. 
In 1956 Art Conrad was appointed di­rector of the Traffic Education and Safety Division of the Municipal Court of Chicago and • founded Its Driver Improvement School. His school has been so successful it is" looked upon by United States and Canadian traffic officials as a model in the field of traffic safety education. 
He is active in many civic and religious organizations; is especially interested in St. Mar>-*s College, having married Virginia Jarecki, a graduate of St. Mar>-'s, and is a member of its lay Board of Trustees. 
The Conrads have four children—two girls and two boys. Their current address is 3601 North Harding Street, Chicago, 111. 
taken a quick trip through the west in January, for Wildroot. Reports 5i*n. Brian. 16, Is interested in pre-med at the U.. and that his gals arc getting tlicrc at ages H and II. I have requested Pablo to add my name to the list of beer lovers to .MIKE BRIAS. Seems as though Mike manages to forward a case of Scji Miguel beer from the Phil­llpincs — can It compete with Millers? The Schwartz clan size amazes the Sheedy family at Christmas time. 
BILL GO.MBER was the first to reply to the early flyer sent out. He turns' up to be a local resident of New Jersey, still single. Itaving re­ceived no proposals over the years, and Is available for a good bull session. Next note came from DR. FRANK HARDART pracildng Obstetrics and Gynecology in Manhattan and also still single. Frank reports a cousin being a neighbor of mine, and I noted that the New York Club elected AUGUS­TIN HARDART as &:cretar>-. Our BILL FALLON just completed a most successful year as President of the N. V. Club—this comes right from a couple of latis who worked with Bill, another single lad. One of the newly elected V.P.'s of the X.Y. Club is ED NEAHER of Garden City who Is an attornev In N. Y. C. 
Under letterhead of Indiana Product* Co. we hear from JOE DRUECKER, who was expecting to treat me to some Cutty Sarfc during the Secy. Conference. Joe's company, which he purchased In 1950 moved to So. Bend last year after being in Kokomn for forty ytars. They feature Foundry Sand, supplies, etc., and feel that South Bend Is more centrally located to the market. He met up with LOUIE ALAMAN at tlir Iowa game and he reports no Improvement in Lou's conduct. JACK "G.E." HURLEY reports in—nothing on the latest price situation. He reports 12 years with G.E.. now manager of sales promotion and train­ing in capital goods distribution. (Should make a giKid speaker for Rotar>-, etc.) The family score is 2 and 2. with th- "extra" due any time. Fellow-townsmen arc LARRY WEISS, also with G.E. and a manager of .Accounting DI\-bion, and DR. JOHN­PHILLIPS an "O.B" in the area of Schenectady. John missed the 20th, hut hopes to make the 25th and had better. Jack ako met DELi\NCY DAVIS while In Phila., and hated to avoid one on the house—also hopes to meet FRANK REILLY some time in New- York. (Jack, I clicckcd the libel laws before reporting your news.) New York press reported DR. CHARLES HUFNAGEL speaking at the Conference on Cardi\-a5cular Surgery, sponsored by the N. V. H;art Association In January, and he later appeared oa radio with Tex McCrary-. Not content with the plastic heart valves and arteries he has made so successfully, hc*s designed an artificial heart. 
Have located JERRY ZEILLER in West Lebanon. 

N. H., with the Vets Adm. Lct*s have more news. Jerry. 
BOB RUSSELL of Marengo, III., a former roommic, later PHIL BONDI'S, called from New-York, being there on official business \*-ith Miller High Life—also a bachelor. I am recommending him to the 25tli committee as a prospective con­tributing member. Bob's commercial Is *"now my hair has turned to silver." whose hasn't, except GENE LING'S and PETE JOHNEN'S. Talked to MOOSE KR^VUSE before the NYU game and he stated they were having a dinner at TOOTS SHORS, per arrangements of BILL FALLON and committee—a successful game followed. 
Plenty of photos of '37 In the last Issue. I had the cover framed to prove to the wife that I made one meeting at the conference at the Morris Inn. (If you haven't been back there to stay, do so— its living—nothing like Freshman Hall, Brownson. etc). Pictures of Ward Leader BERNARD Mx\RTY, the new President of the Decatur club: LOU FEHLIG active in the St. Louis Club; GEORGE GLEASON in Rome; FR. NED JOYCE and FaUon. Looked for JIM DWYER in the Eric Club shot. Jim is with" the law firm of Quinn, Leemhuis, Plate and Dwyer. Missed SKIP COR­MIER'S picture in the Lewlst'on, Me., picture at Ray Gelgcr's home. 
AL SCHWARTZ sent his file on the Seminary Drive. (Keep up sending the donations). Finally news from PARKER SULUVAN—"Pappy" has two running around the house and Is listed as President of the General Telephone Co. of Upstate New York, Johnston, N. Y. This Is a long ways from Ky. CLEM McGOWAN reports 4 boys and 3 gals, a good entr>- for a prize at the 25th. As for BILL LYNCH—the committee receives no fees— fine compliment for a Construction "Consultant" to make. MAURICE SCH^\FER wrote to Al from Seattle, Washington reporting that FR. BOB LOCH­NER keeps him up to date. (Wc vvill try* hard to do this in the column too—with help from all hands). 
DR. J. D. .MANNING is in charge of Surgery at 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 53 
tlic Fallon Clinic at Worcester, Mass., for anyone needing attention in that area. Jay promises to make the 25th. ED GOLDSMITH u-rotc that he and AL SMITH, Chicago, had been together recently. Ed is with Unican Plastics Co., Xorth­boro, Mass.. as Soles Manager. To BOB W'AL­DECK uc report that Al's conduct ivas outstanding regardlr.5s of what BOB WEAVER (Trcas.) re­ported. Waldcck is with Overseas Operations, Ltd. in Los Angela 13, Calif. 
National Toy *'Jobbcr" reports that Frank Lcsselyong has been appointed Sales ^fanager of Tonka Toys, Inc., of Mound, Minn. Frank has been associated with tlic toy field for years, prc­\iously with Slinky Toys in Phila., and with Smith Miller in Calif. Our class certainly is a good field for a toy man. Frank has three of his own. 
BclicvJ it or not, but PINKY CARROLL sings in a choir (director named John Quinn, no rela­tive) lives in New Jcrse\' with plenty of Carrolls— makes his annual trip to Salina and vicinity for the summer. Many thaiiks for the note ^'Pinky." Since the last column we legrct to report GORDON MURPHY lost his mother and JACK GILLESPIE his father. 
Let's hear more from *37—border lo border and coast to coast. Tlic next lad you will hear from is Treasurer Weaver, as the Class finances arc kaput. 
From the Alumni Office: Former Scribe PAUL FOLEY has been promoted to senior vice-president and elected a director of McCann-Erickson. Inc., with headquarters in both New York Citv and Detroit. JAMES W. McHUGH, with Billboard Publishing Co. in New York, has launched a ncu' trade magazine and is now editor of Fnnspot, "the Magazine of Amusement Management." 
zoyeiR 
fieunion June67S 
cutss 
'36 

193 8 ^^^^^ ^^- <^aiiaii^ 
Sports Publicity Dept Notre Dame, ^diana 
Harold A. Williams 307 Cedarcroft Road Baltimore 12, Maryland 
From Hal Williams: 

In the past two Issues we began by listing the classmates with the largest families. The leaders were DR. TOM HUGHES, of Columbus, Ohio. *'CHUGK" SWEENEY, of South Bend, and FRANK J. MEYER, of Glendale, California, with nine each. BERNIE PETERSON now steps to the head of the class among those reporting. He has ten cliildrcn—seven boys and three girls. Bcrnie is a farmer liiing in Bclvue, Kansas. He sa>-s, '*I work for myself against Benson. And I'm probably the onlv farmer in the class." 
"RIGGIE DiBRIENZA, or A. William DiBricnza, M.D.. as ht now signs his name, returned his questionnaire several months ago. but. somehow or other, it got misplaced. Consequently he deser\'es to be mentioned next. He is a phj-slcian, practicing in Brooklyn. N. Y. He sa\-s that he is the father of two bo\-s; the oldest is in high school. He is the president of the local civic organization, the Bay Ridge Community Council, and the secretary* of the Bay Ridge Afedlcal Society. 
Tlircc other doctors—two phx-sicians and a dentist —also, returned questionnaires. JIM BLUNT is practicing in Brockton, Mass., his home town. He bpecializes in internal medicine. He has five girls and two boys—"ihc oldest is eight; four are red­heads, two blondes and one brunette. And I still have all my hair." 
JOHN R. TOBIN, who lives in Elgin, III., writes, **Twcnty years. It seems Impossible. Upon leaving Notre Dame I entered the University of Chicago. I received my M.D, in 1942. I interned at the Presbyterian Hospital in Chicago until 1943 when I -went into the army. I was discharged in 1946 as a major In the medical corps. I was with the 85lh Infantry Division and we served in Italy. One of our classmates, JAMES MULCAHEY, of Taunton, Mass., was a lieutenant of Infantry in this 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
WILLIAM J. RILEY, '38 

A banker who worked every position dur­ing his apprenticeship from messenger to the note cage, Bill Riley is slated for elec­tion in June as president of the Indiana Bankers Association. He is president of the First National and the Union National Banks in East Chicago, Ind., is chairman of the board of Riley Company, which deals in real estate and insurance, and is presi­dent of O. F. Jordan Co., manufacturers of spreaders, ditchers and snowplows for the world*s railroads. 
A native of Chicago, Bill attended North­western University law school for one year after graduation from Notre Dame, and ob­tained an LL.B. degree after two more years in the law school of Indiana Univer­sity. Admitted to the Indiana bar in 1941, he worked in the banks' legal department four months and joined the Nax'y as an ensign in January, 1942. He was dis­charged in 1946 as a full lieutenant after 51 months with Na\'al Intelligence in Wash­ington and the Pacific area. 
Bill re-entered the banks in 1946, be­came a vice president and director in 1947, and was elected president on January II, 1949. Last year he was elected vice pres­ident of the Indiana Bankers Association. Besides his banking activities, he has wide ranging ci\'ic interests. He served as presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of the Calu­met Region in 1951-52. 
He was married to the former Charlotte Marie Ready of Chicago in the log chapel at Notre Dame in May, 1950. They have three sons, William J. Ill, Charles Henry and Robert. 
division and was killed in action.. I was a resident physician in pathology at the University of Chicago, and from 1947 to 1950 a fellow in Internal Medi­cine of the Mayo Clinic Then I was an assistant staff member at Mayo. From 1951 to 1955 I was a member of the Staff of the Rockwood Clinic in Spokane, Wash. In 1955 I was appointed as senior physician in the Department of Sfedical Education 
of Cook County Hospital, Chicago, and assistant 
professor of Medicine, Slritch School of Medicine, 
Loyola University. We are chiefly concerned with 
the teaching and sup^-rvtsion of internal medicine 
for resident ph>*5lclans, Interns and medical stu­
dents. In 1942 I was married to Margaret Callanan. 
We have one child, a beautiful girl of six, Mar>­
Catherine." 
DR. JOSEPH C. CLIFFORD—we heard from his 
brother John in the last issuL—Is a dentist practicing 
in Hamden, Conn. He has two bo>-s and a girl. 
He sa\-s, "I misplaced the questionnaire. Then my 
daughter filled it out, but was too shy to write 
more. I've got a reunion idea—why not tax all the 
fellows who were late returning the questionnaire 
or who never got around to sending it In." (Secre­
tary's note: We wouldn't be able to spend all that 
money in a reunloii weekend.) 
"CHUCK" BEASLEY, writing .from Ho-Ho-Kus. 
N. J., sa>-s that he has two boys and Is vice president of finance for, if I'm reading his writing correctly. Metal and Tlicrmit Corp. He says that he *vouId like to sec some of the priests and professors who taught us featured in the ALUM­NUS. And, he adds, "at the reunion why don't we have a special Our Lady of Fatlma devotion." 
One of the nicest letters we received came from WILLIAM T. MAHONEY, now W. B. MA­HONEY, O.P- He writes, "In August after graduation I entered the Dominican novitiate at Springfield, Ky., acquiring the religious name of Bertrand (that accounts for the change In middle initial) along with the habit of the Order. In the fall of '39 I started my ecclesiastical studies at the Dominican House of Studies In River Forest. 111. 1 was ordained there in 1945, and remained for another year of theology*. From '46 to *48 I worked for a Ph.D., at this Institute of higher studies— the full name of which Is—hang on—the Inter­national Pontifical Athenaeum 'Angellcum'. It Is conducted by the Order, but draws its students, roughly a thousand on the average, from all over the world, and from a number of different dioceses and religious communities. 
"From *48 to the fall of '51 I was teaching philosophy (Cosmolog>' and Special Philosophical Questions connected with the Sciences) at River Forest. In '51 I was called back here to teach, a job originally scheduled for three years, but which stretched to five. I was back at River Forest for the school .year '5(>-'57, hut was called here as a replacement last fall. Present prospects have mc Stateside after June, but one never knows. 
"My summer jobs have a bit more variety than the academic beat indicated. So far, I've taught In Chicago (DePauI), Oklahoma. Florida, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Cincinnati; filled in as a \-acalion replacement for a country* pastor in South Dakota; and for three months (also *a5 a replacement) as an African missionary in Gusau, Northern Nigeria. Distinctions: None. Publications: Only the doctoral . dissertation and a few articles In Cross 8: Crown. Official position: Magistcr Studlorum for my Prov­ince and the Pontifical Faculty at River Forest— a job roughly corresponding to assistant dean. 
**As to connections with alumni: I sec BOB McGRATH fairly regularly when I'm in River Forest and saw something of JOHNNY BUCKLEY before he moved to Texas, plus an occasional brush xvith RICH BOWES. I ran Into SCOTT REi\R­DON (his younger brother is with us In the Order, by the way) two years ago in Sioux Falls and had dinner and a couple of picnic outings with him. Tlianks to my unchallenged position as the world's worst correspondent, an exchange of letters with GEORGE KEENEN has just about ceased. Techni­cally, though not actively, I am one of the initial members ol the recently chartered Notre Dame club of Rome. .. . I had hoped to make the reunion, but our school year goes right to the end of June, so that's out." 
Bill's address in case you want to write him is "Angellcum," Salita del Grillo, Roma 2, Italy. 
Then came some more questionnaires. PHIL BAYER is branch manager for the Quaker State Oil Refining Corp. and lives in St. Marjs, West Va. He has one daughter. He writes that he has built a new home with too much lawn. F. H. MAY, JR., Is vice president, secretary and treasurer of the 
L. O. F. Glass Fibers Co., and lives In Toledo. Ohio. He has two boys and a daughter. J.ACK SEXTON is branch manager of John Se:<ton & Co., wholesale grocers. He lives in Wynncwood, Pa., has two bo>-5, 16 and 13, and two girls, II and 7. He say's he is proud to admit that he once hid and made a i;raiid slam in bridi;e. 
JOSEPH "RED" GLEASON lives In Chicago and has four children, a boy, 9, and three girls. 
15, 14 and 10. He is a supcmsor for the Cliicago Park District in charge of a new field house. He retired from coaching last year (Mendel Catholic); one of his players, Al Sabal (if I'm reading his writing correctly) earned his letter at N'otre Dame last fall. 
Now a few more letters. 
BOB LEONARD writes from Kingston, N. C , ''Thanks for the enjoyable reading about the class­mates. If I had any rcser\*atiDns about attending our reunion they arc gone now. I just have to sec if JACK, ANTON is as pretty as he says he is. My son Pat is an applicant for the freshman class this fall. If there are any others wc might form a '38-'62 club. I don't think I could take what would come out of thsir first 'bull session* but it certainly would make good listening. 
**I would like to make a suggestion for the 
'Spotlight Alumnus.' . . . I'm vcr>' much interested 
in the present family status, activities, etc., of the 
boys. In short if we could present each month a 
short biographical sketch of a small number of 
classmates, witli pictures, it would systematically 
insure that we would get contributions over a period 
of years. If you think this lias merit you might 
tr^' it out on a few to see what the reaction 
Would be." What do you fellows think? 
Here's a good biogr-iphical sketch from WILLIAM 
R. "RED" DUGGAN, now ofliccr-in-charge of West African AfTairs for the Department of State. He writes Irom Washington. ''After graduation I remained at Notre Dame to receive my master's degree in 1939 and to ser\e as busuiess manager and secretary- of Dr. Gurian's Review "of Politics. I worked for the Social Security Board for several years thereafter and then entered the Foreign Service. My tours of duty as a Consul and Diph)­matic Officer have included posts at Lisbon; Dur­ban, South Africa; Vancouver and Victoria in Canada, and Copenhagen. 
"I hav; had a year of special training at the African Research and Studies Center in Boston (1955-56) where I have attempted to become a specialist on African Affairs. During the Eleventh General /\sscmbly of the United Nations I had the privilege of serx'ing on the U. S. Delegation as an advisor. This session, as you recall, was the one which concerned Suez and Hungary* and was naturally a most exciting experience. Since then I have served as Officer-in-Charge of West African AfTairs in the Dcpartniw-nt of Slate with an 'empire' ranging from French West Africa through the Congo, and that too—with Africa 'emerging'—has been proving to be a most rewarding and wonder­ful experience. I am married and have one son." 
And now from probably the most faithful cor­respondent, and certainly one of the grandest guys of the class, DON HICKEY. of South Bend— "Made a killing this past week (January 20). SGW RA Y MEYER and his DePaul Demons play Notre Dame, and N.D. won. Sunday after Mass dropped into the ^[orri5 Inn and this time I didn't bump into "DE/\CON' ^VNTON; he's lost quite a bit of weight. Jack says he was visiting with FATHER a\REY and JOHN O'CON'NOR. And he was on his way to St. Joseph's Hospital to sec CHARLIE CALI^\HAN who w ^ taking his annual post-football season rest. You fellows across the country* shouldn't be so hard on Charlie at those Friday night rallies. Sunday I talked with ED HAGGAR, up from Dallas, for the annual Alumni /Vssoclation meeting. Ed. as you know, was elected first vice president. Anton and Ed said that they would be here for the reunion." 
That's it. There are no more letters or question­naires to pass along. Less than half the class answered. I'm particularly and personally sorry-such fellows as LOU DaPRA, '39, JOHN SCHE.MMER, "TIGER" McGRATH, JOHN CLE/\RY, BILL ROBINSON, RUSS REDGATE, ED BARTNETT, JOHN WATERS, ED UNI­ACKE, NEL VOGEL, '39, VIC MERCADO, BOB 
V. MULLEN and at least 200 others didn't send some word along about themselves. 
If you can't write at least turn out for the reunion. See you then. 
From the Alumni Office: JOHN W. LACEY Is the new vice-president and general manager of Inland Displays, a newly formed subsidiary' of Inland Lithograph Co. JAMES 
T. IGOE, '32, is president of the parent firm. 
J. RUSSELL LONGON lias been named manager of investment analysis for the corporate comptroller's office of Chrysler Corporation, Detroit. 
Our sj-mpathy goes out to LEONARD SKOG­LUND and his wife Alice (St. Mar\*s) on the death of Mrs. Skoglund's father, James A. Scully. Mr. 
CHARLES B. McFARLAND, '39 

Elected governor of the Oklahoma-Texas District of Kiwanis International for the year 1958, Charles McFarland is the next-to-youngest governor ever elected in Ki­wanis. There are 272 local clubs in his two-state territory. He has served also as president of his home club, and as lieuten­ant-governor of his Division. 
Chuck graduated cum laude with a Bach­elor of Science degree in Commerce, taught one year at St. Gregory's College, Shawnee, Oklahoma, before he was inducted into military ser\'ice in 1941. He left the Army in 1945 with the rank of captain, having scr\'ed on General Eichelberger's staff in the Pacific. He received a law degree from Oklahoma City School of Law in 1949 and is a member of the Oklahoma Bar Associa­tion. 
A native of Oklahoma City, Chuck has been active in community work of various kinds and is a past president of the Warr Acres, Oklahoma, Chamber of Commerce. He is unmarried, and at the present time he is active in real estate development, theatre business, investments, and heads a landscape nursery firm. 
He is a member of St. Charles parish'. Warr Acres, Oklahoma, where he is active in the Men's Club. Currently Charles is also president of the Notre Dame Club of Oklahoma City. 
Scully was chaimian of the board of Scully-Jones Co., Chicago, of which Len Is a vice-president. 
1939 J^^^^ ^ ' Motschall Singer-Motschall Corp. 10090 West Chicago Detroit 4, Michigan 
Your secretary* was on campus in Januarv'. En-Joyed seeing all the new buildings, the great plans fur the future and participating In a very instructive two day conference. Our twentieth reunion is the summer of '59 so wc want it to be a big one. Very soon I will get together with CHUCK REODY and others to formulate definite ideas for our class. More of this later. 
JOHN PLANALP is a theatrical booking agent in Des Moines, Iowa, where he lives with his wife Mary (Mar>- &:ott of St. Mary's) and his two sons John Robert, 9, and John Eugene, 6. Please note, class: JOHN can spell his name backward or for^v'ard (all the same). He has been in -this business for the past ten years and recently has joined George HamJI, who handles such stars as Perry Como and Patti Page. -I think it would be nice for you JOHN to handle the entertainment on our 20th reunion with such talent. 
FRANK GEORGE called mc the other day, which was a ver)' pleasant surprise. Frank Is a supervisor of the employment services at the Great Lakes Steel Corporation. He lives in Lincoln Park with. his wife and four wonderful (quote from your letter) kids, Mary Elizabeth, 11, Paul, 9, Michael, 7, and Susan, 5. FRANK would like to hear from WALT SHORT, ART DAVIS, TOM MAKER and BOB SCHULTZ (as would I). 
Our sincere sympathy to JOE McDONALD whose mother died this past December. I am sure all you classmates will say one extra prayer for her. 
LOUIS G. CACCHIOLI Is an old country doctor (according to him). Louis Is married to a sweething called Polly and has three fine children Linda, 12, Susan, 8 and Beth, 3. 
HENRY F. JOHANTGEN also Is a physldan, but he is a city doctor. Henry's new address is 96 Adams St., Brockport, N. Y., (alumni ofEce please take note) where he lives with his wife Anne and five happy children, Henry, 11. Anne Marie, 9, Elizabeth, 7, Mary Ellen. 5, and Peter, 1. 
JOHN D. SULLIVAN lives at Cumberland, Maryland, where he Is an engineer at the Hercules Powder Co. John married a St. Mary's girl (class of '38) in 1941, formerly Marguerite Craig. They have four beautiful children named Kathleen, 13, Denisc, II, Margaret, 8 and John, Jr., 5. 
WALTER J. GEREND lives in Dayton, Ohio, where he is the contracting officer at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Walter and his wife Louise have five fabulous daughters named Kathleen Mar>% 9. Patricia Louise, 6, Jean Thercsc, 4, Carol Anne, 2 and Betty Frances, 3 months. The picture you sent mc of your 5 daughters b terrific You arc a lucky iad—count vour blessings. Walter heard from JUDGE GEORGE HAlTHCOCK who is politicizing in Washington. Walter would like to hear from TED FRERICKS, JULE KRISTAN, BILL MEYERS, JOE ADRIAN, and all his old Feather Merchant buddies. Walter satv HANK ROHL, *40, at a dinner dance held in Dayton in December. If you fran be there in '59 we have ju5t added one more to the Rowing list. 
JAMES A. CLIFFORD Is credit sales manager at Sears In Tucson, Arizona where he lives with his wife Marge and four children, Mary 13, Margaret 
11. Ann 9, and Nelta 5 (I hope I spelled that name correctly). Will write- to you when I get back from Florida—leaving tomorro\»*, ^(a^ch 26th, JIM lias been in Tucson for 3 years, before which he was located in Duluth. Minn. Hope you can get back for our 20ih. Saw TO.M MclNTYRE in Detroit last summer. He Is fine and hasn't changed any more than we all have. Would like to get In a "bull session" just Hke the good old days. 
CARL J. NAGEL lives in Snyder, New York, where he Is treasurer of the Elliott Paint Co.. Inc. He has 2 children. Carl, 9, and -Myrella. 6. Wshed you had called when you were in Detroit—try to do so next tim.-r. Carl would like to hear from DAN SHEEDY, JOE RYAN and FRANK BENNETT. 
Tliere arc still quite a few who haven't answered my first or second questionnaires—would be i;rand to hear from you. I have received some that I will include in tho next issue and hope to make it a large one-with all the ones that are yet to come. Thanks, one and all. 
From the Alumni OfHce: VALENTINE B. DEALE, former staff director for the Hoover Commission task force on procure­ment, now has his own law offices in Washington, 
D. C . and has written an article in the American Bar Association Journal on the .\.B.Al-spon«>red Administrative Practice Reorganization Act. 
JOSEPH J. HIEGEL recently became assistant chief engineer at E. W. Bliss Co., Canton, Ohio. He has five children with ages ranging from 1 to 15. 
The Cinl Aeronautics Board has appointed RICHARD J. 0*MELIA chief of the International division of the Bureau of Air Operations. 
ROBERT L. SCALLY has been promoted to man­ager of the New York group office of Mutual of New York. 
Notrf Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 55 
194 0 J^""^ ^- Brown 625 Madison Avenue New York, New York 
From ihe Alumni Office: JOHN D. GAVAX has been named manager of tlte Ciiarloltt. N. C , agency of Connvclicul General Life Insurance Co. John has three daughters. MATT N. GONRING, JR., lias been promoted to the ^can committee of B. C. Ziegler & Co.. securities undenvriling company of West Bend and Milwaukee. AVis. MI2E .MORRIS works with the Ahmini Associa­tion of Missouri Military .\cademy in his home town of Mexico. Mo. DANIEL J. SULLIV^VN hxs become a full partner in the law firm cf Lewis, Rice, Tucker, Allen & Cliubb. St. Louis, Mo. JOHN T. BENEDICT has been named a direct factory representative for Ruud Manufacturing Co. for Chicago and Northern Illinois. 
104 1 James F. Spellman 
• ' ^ • 7 East 42nd Street New York 17, New York 

Your secretarv- attended a conference in Januar\­on the campus. Tlic subject of the Intensive day of discussions was YOU; how best to serve YOU; what pleases YOU most in the ALU.MNUS; liow to get YOU to let us know your present status; how YOU can help all of us keep alive the wonderful memories of our stay at Notre Dame. Many ideas were ad\-anced as to the best way of contacting \-arious alumni of all classes; some suggested questionnaires; others, letters. All agree that only YOU can make the ALUM.NUS a successful medium of communication between our far-fluug graduates. Space does not permit me to tell you all that happened at the Secretaries Conference. Suflice to say, it was a most productive gathering; and the few hours on tlie campus gave us a real spiritual uplifting. 
I ha»'c again started writing to more of our class, in the hope t!:at you will jot down a few notes about yourself and send them on to me. You can read how welcome to others this news is. Letters to MAL FRASER, FRANCIS CROSS, E.MERY BERES, and JI.M CARBERRY were re­lumed to me undelivered. How about it, fellows, let me know your correct addresses. On the successful side, your scribe received news as follows: 
From BOB DOWD—Bob miss<"d the reunion In June 195G because of "family complications'*—a new son, Thomas Francis, bom Dec. 5. I95G. That makes four; and Bob is trying to sell his present home and buy another. After this month (Marcli) Bob's new address will be 19413 Scotis­dale. Shaker Heights 22, Ohio. He reports seeing BOB STACK, JERRY HAM.MER, ED MURRAY and JOE MULLIGAN. J»c has gone to Nashville with Murray Company. MART\' INWGERSON received a nice promotion In his firm—American Shipbuilding; FR.\NK McGRODER left the Cleve­land area for Ne.v York, around Syracuse. I be­lieve. (I wrote about Frank wav back in 1956. Bob). Bob also saw JERRY RY.\N and BILL HOYNE at the 25tli Bengal Bouts (remember?). Bob is with Muell~r Electric Company as Comp­troller; likes it ver>* much; a wonderfully aggressive firm. Best of good luck. Bob, keep me posted on anything else. 
BILL D.\LY writes that he hasn't bumped into any '4Iers in a long time; MIKE KEEGAN was out in California for a couple of years, and lived only two blocks away from Bill in Redwood City; but has gone back to Minneapolis. Bill has also moved to 2807 Panay Court, Camiicliael. Calif., a suburb of Sacramento. He is Ass't Ref^ional Claim Manager for All-state I^^u^a^ce Co. Wants any of our class in his area to get in touch with him. Bill returned to N.D. after the war and got his l3v\- degree In 1948; married a St. Mary's gal. Martha Abberger. also a '41er. who was secretary to Father Cavanaugh when he was President. They have five children from 9 months to 9 years. Tliey get to the U.S.C. game at L. A. every other year, and arc looking forward to the California game at Berkeky in 1959. Bill is also Foundation Chairman of Northern California. He likes my letter Idea. Tlianks, Bill; hope others follow your example and give me 'omctliing to report. 
From ELVIN J. DEAL, 1217 Granada, Coral Gables, Fla-—^No news in his area. (Have you read the moit recent ALUMNUS, Elvin? Pompano 
56 Notre Danie Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
SAMUEL E. LEMAN, '40 

When the Indiana Veterans of Foreign Wars hold their Departmental Convention in South Bend this summer. State Com­mander Sam Lcman will have completed another chapter in a distiguishcd record of scr\*ice in veterans affairs. 
Starting with two terms as commander of Bremen Post No. 8972, during which he inaugurated construction of a ne%tf $75,000 VFW home, Sam ser\*cd successively as Indiana 3rd District commander, Indiana inspector, membership chairman, chief of staff, junior and senior vice commander, and at last year's convention at French Lick was elected commander of the VFW De­partment of Indiana. 
Sam was commissioned in the U. S. Naval Reser\*c early in 1943 and ser\*ed in World War II as a landing craft com­mander, making the in\-asion of Normandy on Utah Beach and receiving a letter of-commendation for this action. Before he was released to inactive duty as a full lieutenant he was officer in charge of Chem­ical Warfare School in Little Creek, Vir­ginia. 
Equally active in business and civic af­fairs, Sam has been affiliated with William Leman, Inc., since graduation (cum laudc) and is now vice president in charge of the firm's analytical laboratory and rectifica­tion plant. He is ser\*ing his third term as president of the Bremen planning com­mission, is assistant chief of the Volunteer Fire Department and a member of the Board of Zoning Appeals and Chamber of Commerce. 
Sam, an avid golfer, lives in Bremen with his wife Ruth and their three children, Jimmy. Mar>' Ann and Sam, Jr. 
Is only a few miles north) Elvin has been In Miami for the past ten years; has five children, ages five to fifteen; represents the Sunbeam Corp. of Chicago, in Miami. Has little time for any­thing except his family. Your note, however brief, is most welcome, Eli-in. You know, when 
we left the campus. It was the last time that many of us would actually sec one another again. W'c have spread in all directions. So, the only way that any of us has to fill the void is to see familiar names appearing in the ALUMNUS from time to time. I'm sure your roommates and other campus acquaintances will enjoy knowing a little about your whereabouts. Many thanks for rcplv­ing. WALTER J. BRENNAX, M.D., 706 Duke St., Alexandria, Va., writes. Walt enjoyed FRANK McDONOUGH'S letter which appears In the current ALUMNUS. What u-as NOT in the letter is a story* of profound faith and courage that I am privileged to report. During a dread polio epidemic In Chicago in 1949 or '50. DICK. WHALEN contracted the disease. With Frank's Iielp, they got Dick into a VA hospital in Chicago, and then transferred to the Kchabllltation Center at Richmond. Then began a long uphill battle without a murmur or complaint from Dick. ^Vs he progressed, he indicated a desire to study law. So. to Florida, where Dick attended classes in a wheelchair. His wonderful wife, LIbby, helped him immensely. A real study in courage that is an Inspiration to all of us. 
Walt is a psychiatrist (I'll need your help, Walt, after this Income tax season!); finds his profession most absorbing and time consuming. He recalls a phone irall ''last week" (That would be around the end of Feb.) from JOE MULQUEEN. Joe was of the class of '40, but hung around doing graduate work until spring of 1941. About that time, as a result ol ^'greetings,'* Joe and three or four others were given a sendon* at the main build­ing by FATHER JOHN P. LYNCH. I don't know where Joe et al. ended up. Anyway. Jne gets to Washington frequently, and Wall hopes to Iiave a Ii>cal reunion. If I get down that way on one of my Intended Air Force Reser\e trips. Walt., I'll give you a ring. How about HOWIE SCHELLENBERG? He is in Washington, at last rollcall. Tlie N.D. Club of Washington Is an active group, and Walt has worked with JACK .McGRATH on a couple of projects. Also, MILTON RILEY, Class of *DO or *51, met up with Walt. Many thanks for the news, Walt; keep up the good work. 
Now, with your indulgence, I'll recount a little ancient history. When I was hopping bells at the old Pancoast Hotel, 29lh St. and Collins Ave., Miami Beach, early 1937, a certain N.D. student was spending a brief vacation at this swanky joint. He heard that I was interested In attending N.D. We talked; and as a result, your secretary headed for the campus that fall. One of my classmates is a brother to this student; one of my teachers is also his brother. Tlie student li of course F.-VT CAREY from Kokomo; FATHER CHARLES CAREY tried to teach mc English; and FRANK GrVREY Is my classmate. This all leads up to a phone call I didn't receive this week from Pat. He called, all right, but I wasn't in and Pat left no number. The last time I saw either Pat or Frank was in 1944 and 1945. Frank wxs in Honolulu, and Pat was on the USS Abatan. anchored in Ulithi Lagoon. I was on my way to Okinawa and we were tied up for a week at Ulithi. Out of the blue Padfic. JOE DRUECKER, a good N.D. man (class in doubt) draws along side Ihe ship I was traveling on and tells me that Pat Carey is nearby. So, with Joe's help I had a swell visit with Pat. Joe also chauffeured my boys ashore a number of times. A really swell guy, whom I'd like to sec again. Gee, Pat. I sure would like to see you again. Please, leave a number next time If you are staying In the city. 
My next deadline is May 23th, fellow '41trs. about the same time you read this. Please don't wait for my written plea for information on your classmates. When you read these few incoherent lines, resolve to sit down at once and give me some assistance. Tlie longer you wait, the harder it is to do it, and the farther away we all get from Notre Dame. 
194 2 WilUam M. Hickey ^ * 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Illinois 
JIM DOYLE and EMMETT KEENAN who practice as certified accountants under the name of Doyle & Keenan in Davenport. Iowa, recently opened an additional office at 404 Cleaveland Building, Rock Island, Illinois. Both are interested In hearing from any members of the class who are in the TrI-Cilies area on a visit. 
"THE BIGGEST E," MR. ED DUNL.\\% nou-during one year, sell $I.O{K),(XX) or more of life DICK POWERS. S.J., has been at Woodstock rtsidiiig at 2l6 CastL-itoii Avenue. Akron, Oliio, insurance. College in Mar\-laiid, expects to be ordained at 
was ciirtuus t<» know it DON HOGAN wore his foam rubber reunion rap during the winlcr. He can visualize the cap brring soaked in water and frozen to Hogan's head in the sub-zero weather. Ed reports WALT .McCOURT is taking his wife, Peg, lo Hawaii for a tea-day trip as reward for his selling more Gencrd Truck tires than anyone else in a nation-wide contest. Wlio wants to guess how much over-weight they will charge Walt on the airplane? Ed als<) reports that he sees BOB COLEMAN, and they took their sons to the X3\">" game. Ed is still working for Goodyear and would be happy to hear from any of our classmates. 
BILL MORROW reports that on June 1st he is being transferred by Reynolds Metals from Louis­ville to the new sales headquarters at Richnumd. \^rginia. His new address will be: 1213 Knob Road. Richmond. Virginia. 
STEVE GR.\LIKER, P. O. Box 133. Decatur, Illinois, writes: "Quite likely the Class of '42 needs a good five year plan similar to the Class of '37 for news gathering. 
"WALT KELLY, '43. an anthori/ed absentee of the Flying Irish Luncheon, stopped mc early last fall in downtown Chicago xsking news and details of the Flying Irish mementoes for which he had paid. NVxt day I wrote "The Scientist." ED NLVNGELSDORF, who answered first thing this year. Fellows. Ed has been ill (nothing that we didn't take in stride at school)^ but that isn't the real reason you haven't received your Flying Irish Cuff Links. Ed Is in the seed business and. though the gestation period of cuff links is now unknown, it will be when yours arrive. 
"The next hero depicted was met minutes before a lovely wedding. I was a little nervous about whether my tic was iinally knotted correctiv when 
BYRON KANA LEY '42, sidled up whispering— 
"Brown shoes are never worn with a blue suit." I didn't realize I had such big feet. (OTTO -MOLIDOR, please ncte.) "In December, con­fidence was restored when Byron and Salli'e enter­tained a sizeable gather heavily infiltrated by Notre Dame men of several classes. Also, more former St. Mar>-'s students than has been seen since the tea dances. By a circuitous route I arrived with MEL and JI.\i McNULT^' to behold a station wagon eight hands high and two bodies long. BILL HICKEY acquired it in a three-way trade in­volving Parmalee Transfer- It was loaded with Class of '42 Southsiders. 
"Had a short, intense visit vvith BOB and MARIE RAAF last winter at Naval Air Station, Glcnview. Bob Is skipper of an attack squadron which booms sonically in Cougars. 
"In the interest of space and time. I must close. 
P.S. What's the latest readi ng on John Clifford's Class Collection?" (Secrctao's Note: §94.10.) 
The president of the Mutual Benefit Life In­surance Co. wrote that DON FIGEL has again qualified for nieinbersliip in the "Million Dollar Round Table." a group open only to those who. 
GEORGE J. KELLEY has been appointed assist­ant director of thj .American Bankers /Vssociation News Bureau in Washington, D. C. 
NEIL J. McC/VRTY has formed a law partnership with Daniel J. Burns, Jr., under the firm name of McCarty & Burns, with ofHces in the Bachhiibcr BIdg., Kaukauna, \\'is. 
isyfflR Reunion. 
• 
JMHC6-7-& 
A'd ^ 

1 94 3 Jolm L. Wiggins 
• '^"^ 4800 Fairla^^-n Drive La Canada, Calif. 
This will be the last column before the Re­union week end. We certainly expect to see a record turnout. BILL EARLEY lias been hard at vtork making the arrangcinenu as local chainnan for the 15 year Reunion. We have had many indications from our questionnaires that would indicate a large turnout. If you haven't been back since graduation or the 5-year Reunion. I doubt that ycu will recognize the campus. For those who x'bited the 10-year Reunion, there are further changes on campus since that gathering. 
The fee of twenty dollars will cover a fine week end at a minimum cost. So. plan now to attend. A special added incentive during this centennial year of the Virgin Mar>*'s apparitions at Lourdes. a plenar\- indulgence may be obtained by members of any group that visits the Grotto during the centennial year. 
RAY SCHOONHOVEN is now a partner in the law firm of Seyfarth, Shaiv, Fair^vcather & Gerald-son, Chicago, Illinois. 
BOB TOWNER is a feature sports writer for the South Bend Tribune. He is a former president of the South Bend Press Club and at present is Secretar>'-Treasurer of the Lions. 
FRANK EBNER is employed as an attorney for The Detroit Bank & Trust Co. He has three children. Frank will be at the Reunion looking for JOE a\LL.-\HAN. 
In March FATHER ANTHONY BROAX^N re­ceived the first earned doctor's degree ever granted by .Montana State University wlulc on leave from the faculty of Carroll College. Helena. 
JOHN DUNL.\VY has been selected to direct the public relations of the Army and .Air Force Exchange Service in New York. John lives in Riverdale, N. Y. with his wife and two daughters. 
JOHN HUNT has just joined the staff of Look Magazine as a department editor. 
Fordbam in June. Hope cver>-body has heard by now tliat "HARRY THE HORSE" WRIGHT has left his assistant's assignment at Georgia to become the first ciWItan head football coach at the United States Nfcrchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. L,I. 
GENE FEHLIG'S Jeff, duly noted in vital sta­tistics, is the fifth, the others being Kathy, 13. Karen. 10, Mark, 8, and Ricky, 5. Since January 
I. Gene has been associated with brothers Paul, '31, Vince, '3t. and Lou, *37, in Fehllg Bros. Box and Lumber Co. Gene b managing the special products dept,, plans to be on hand for the loth anniversary reunion since his wife will celebrate at St. Mary's. 
194 4 George Bariscillo, Jr. 
515 Fifth Avenue 
Bradley Beach, N. J. 

At the recent Class Secretaries Conference held on the campus, and reported in the last issue of the ALUMNUS, we received some interesting statistics. Did you knoiv that a survey made during last year's reunion disclosed that of the returning reunionitcs, approximately 93% said they read the ALUMNUS; over 50% stated they read the class notes section first, specifically their respective class column; and did you know that 45% of the wives of those surveyed read the ALUMNUS? I would imagine these same percent­ages would carry over to any given class, and the problem of gathering news to satisfy the appetites and interests of these many readers (of which group you obviously are a member) presents for the class secretary-a never-ending headache. Numerous suggestions were given to conquer the problem—some said mail questionnaires to the men; others suggested personal letters begging for news; still others said send postcards, etc. Well, I am using this space lor my personal appeal to you. If you :.re a reader of this column and If you enjoy reading about your classmates, I feel you owe it to them to taxc time out sometime today and send mc a few lines about yourself and others you have heard about or arc wondering about, so I'll have some news to report in the next column. I'll gladly pay the postman if the letter comes "postage due," but 6o help! 
Just one year, nearly to the day, from when this piece teaches you, we'll be trcking back to the campus for our fifteenth reunion! Naturally, we arc anxious to top the turnout we had for our "fifth" and "tenth," and the time lo begin pre­paring tor this memorable event is now. In the course of the coming year a number of mailings will reach you. previewing the big event of our I5tb. I am now open to suggestions from our class officers and from all members of the class for ideas how wc can make this reunion the best yet. Naturally, wc want as near a 100% turnout as 
ROME—At the annual Communion Day on the Feast of the Immaculate Conception in Rome, Italy, the principals were (seated, left to 
right): Rev. Edward L. Heston, C.S.C., chaplain; Jerry Ashley, president; Rev. Bernard E. Ransing, C.S.C, installing officer for Cluh's first executive board (with little Paul Tufano whom Father has helped to obtain polio treatment in U. S.); George Gleason, vice president, 
and Vince McAloon, secretary. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 57 
possible. To assure this we wiU nt-ctl booster com­mittees working all across the country-, and .••cvcral in each of the larger cities. I would like to hear from some volunteers to work on the reunion plans. Tlierc will be a local committee in South Bend again headed by JOHN LYNCH and BOB LEHMAN, both of whom did a hangup job for our lOth. These men will be working close with the .Mumni Oflice in .setting up the baste plans. LetV all start thinking aboat tins important event and resolve now each to do his part in making our "I5th'* a truly mcmo.-ahle occasion. 
Back to the current news. I recently got caught up un the Fort Way;)c gang and learned that DICK DOERMER has retired from the active practice of the law ic become president of the Dime Bank and Trust Co. of Fort Wayne. . . . ARTIE HOFF.M.\N is operating a retail sporting goods store in town. . . . DONNELLY MacDON-ALD , cashier of the People's Bank and Trust Co.. recently 5er\'cd a terra in the Indiana state legisla­ture and is still enjoying bacliclor—bliss. . . . TOM O'REILLY retired this year as president of the Fort Wayne Alumni Club and is busy in Ins business, tliL- O'Reilly Office Supply Co. 
A welcome letter from GEORGE EUSTERMAN dropped on my desk in time to make the deadline for this issue. George writes that he is still doing internal medicine with the Garberson Clinic (6 North 7th St.^ Miles City. Montana), but that he will he taking a breather for a feu' years as head ph\-sician at Montana State College for the Student Health Service, as well as associate professor of bacteriology-, beginning in September. George com­pleted his medical education at Creighton School of Medicine in '49, is married and expecting bts 5th child momentarily. He reports that JACK UTZ at last word was somewhere in Maryland. George also inquires far DICK HINES, *'tliat hot piano player from Biocklinc. Mass.," and asks whether FRITZ FUNK is still in LaCrossc, Wis. 
JOHN CON*NELLY is practicing medicine at the Ro\-al \^ctorid Hospital in Montreal. . . . JIM COOGAN is manager of the Coogan Gravel Co. in Peoria. . . . ROBERTO dc RO.MANA is manager of Vulcanex Rubber Co. in Peru .. . and JOE RUD is comptroller of James K. Wilson Co., clothiers, in Dallas. 
Before closing for this time (and please forgive the repetition), may .1 ask that you accept my invitation to write me a few lines,. thereby saving the column from disaster . . . and also please give some thougl.t to, and send along any suggestions for, making our 13th reunion next year "the greatest!" 
From the .Mumni Oilicc: DOM BOETTO has a ver>' engaging picture of 
SALINA—President Robert McAuliffe pre­sents the Most Reverend Frederick W. Freking, Bishop of Salina, with 700 feet of movie Shn taken by Club at Bishop Fre­king's installation in Sacred Heart Cathedral January 7. 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
his photogenic family »" file in the office. In­cluded: wife Gladys, St. Mary's, '48; Mary Susan. B'/a; Christopher, 7; Joseph, 514; Lizabeth, 4; Jcanmarie, 3, and Paul, 14 months. 
E.\RL ENGLERT has been appointed sales manager of Catalysts and Chemicals, Inc., Louis­ville, Ky. 
DR. PAUL F. HOPPER, Troy, N. Y., has been promoted to director of food industry- development hi the Farm and Home Division of American Cynamid Co. 
10 4 c Al Lesniez I 7 1 i* J22 Tullamore Road Garden City, N. Y. 
CLASS SECRETARIES' CONFERENCE 
During the week end of Januar>- 17 and 18, 1958, '45 was represented at the Class Secre­taries' Conference held at the University by the Alumni iVssociation. Several problems and their solutions were discussed, and an interesting dis­cussion was held on such matters as the Class Column, election of officers, ALUMNUS magazine, editorial problems, reunions, and Class projects. Tlic meeting was a V.T>' enlightening and interesting one. and it paved the way for an increased effort by all of tLs in the ranks to try 10 stimulate YOU. who read this column, into participating by sending in news. So get a note off to me immediately as a vole-of-confidence for the work we are doing. 
"DID-YOU-KNOW-THAT" DEP.^RTMENT 
In browsing through my several sources of in­formation, there are a few items which may be of interest to you. For example, did you know that . . . MIKE M.ANZO is a teacher-coach in Medford, Massach^isetts . . . that he is married and the father of Michael (5 years) and Rose Marie (I year) .. . that he teaches ^latliematics and Science, and is a line coach in football . . . that he is selling athletic trophies, operating under the name of Mission Trophy Company . . . that be reported seeing ED C/VLLAHAN, "BOLEY" D.ANCEWICZ, and DICK HERLIHY at the Boston Club Communion Breakfast this past December . . . that mail to WILLIAM PICCONE comes back undelivered . . . that ROBERT C. REARDON, of Houston, Texas is another of the '"lost" of the class . . . that EDAVARD FAUST, JR.. has a. wonderful family consisting of Joseph. 8; Deborah, 7; David, G; Mary, 3; and Carol, 4 montlis . . . that he is working for Nelson and Warren, Inc., consulting actuaries as a group and casually in­surance Actuar\* . . . that Ed would love to hear from his classmates, and also from any Notre Dame man who may also be in the actuarial business, or related fi-Id . .-. that Ed participated in the St. Loui^ Club Golf Tourney, and he and his wife. Kathlesn. attended the recent club dinner .. . that your Secretary would like to get the latest correct address for ARQADE J. PL-ANTE, WELTON R. ABELL, and JOHN W. ADA.MS . . . that DICK SAYERS and his wife. Ellen, are the happy parents of Kathlcne. Michael. Brian. Monica, and were expecting a fifth child early this month . . . that Dick is with the Monsanto Chemical Co., as Manager. Plant Purchasing Offices, doing general supervisory duties relating to the company's 20-Plant Purchasing Offices . . . that our 45 Class Is-Ycar Reunion is now only two years awav . . . that I hope to locate FREDERICK J. BIGGS, EDWARD MULCAIR, and DICK YOUNG before that time, and that any leads in this direction would be much aporeciated by this department . . . that FATHER CHARLES 
A. DEUVNEY, C.S.C. has been Pastor of Seven Dolors CImrcli in Austin. Texas, since its beginning in 1953 . . . that TOM SCHRRER is with Atco Transporters, Inc., as president . . . that the firm transports petroleum products . . . that he and his wife, Btllic, arc the proud parents of Rose Marie. 7 years; Katby, 5 years; Tommy, Jr., 4 years; and Suzanne. 7 months; . . . that Tom was out to Notre Dame a ye.ir ago for one of the football games . . . that he wonders what has happened to Digby . . . that Tom is a member of the Tulsa Notre Dame Club . . . that JOHN J. CON­NELLY and DR. EMMET T. SHEERAN did not leave a forwarding address when they last moved, and that all mail tc them comes back un­delivered . . . that JOHN N. CACKLEY. JR., long-time ALUMNUS managing editor has been assigned by FATHER JOHN CW^VNAUGH to fulltimc status on the Foundation's multi-million dollar program . . . that the class wishes him good luck, as well as a happy welcome to JOHN LAUGHLIN who will assist JIM ARMSTRONG in doing alumni work, and issuing the ALUMNUS | .' . . th?t DAVE GrVRTWRIGHT'S new address is 2600 Norfolk, Cleveland 6, Ohio . . . that we want to hear from YOU who read this column . . . that JAMES LAMB is living at 1016 Chestnut Street, Grand Forks, North Dakota . . . that Mary-Jean, his wife, is the boss over 7-year old Larr>'; 5-year old David; 3-year old Timmy; 1-year old Brian; and Daddy Jim, of fxiurse . . . that Jim 

i.i one of the partners of Degnan, Ilager, McElroy and Lamb, law firm . . . that Jim has a "natural" gripe when he says: **that was a great idea to send out pencils to everv'one, but there must be a crook in the Postal Service between here and there. At, or maybe you can lay my loss to the general inefficiency of the Republican Administra­tion" . . . that, in effect, your Secretary* must lake all the blame since IIL has found out that the best reaction to mailing pieces is saying that a ^ pencil is enclosed, and then not sending one— ever>*onc always gets so mad . . . that we do all this just to hear from YOU. so don't make it so hard for us to do our job. but sit down and write . . . that BILL MOORE, Class Treasurer is still waiting to get dues from some of you. 
"LETTERS-FROM" DEPART.MENT 

From JIM SCHWEICKERT: ".My new address is ^ 121 Muneon Street, Coldwater, Michigan. How­ever, for mailing I am using my office address which is Lock Box 148, Coldwater, Michigan. 
*'I am now Superintendent of Nurses at the local State Home and Training School, which brings mc closer tj N.D. also." 
From Dinkic Hartnett (wife of DENNIS B. HARTNETT): "I thought 1 better take it upon m\-self to write a brief note to vou and enclose Cabby's dues. Please forward it to the Class < Treasurer. I have no idea if I am enclosing the right amount or not. Please let me know. Gabby is with Chicago Standard Transfoniier Corporation in Sales Administration. We have a comfy home in Glenview, Illinois (2413 Robin Crest Lane), a 6-year old daughter. Deborah .Anne, in first grade; and a futuie N.D. boy 2'/: months old, James Michael, born December 14tli. 
"Even though JUDY and AL WADE live in Davenport, Iowa, we see them often. **I can't think why Gabby is so busy that he couldn't do this—but he just doesn't get around to i 
Rev. Vincent G. (Vic) CuIIen, S.J., '43, talks to some young parishioners in the hinterlands of the Philippine Islands. Lo­cated at Immaculate Conception Church, Impasugong, Bukidnon, Philippines, Vic covers many mountain villages in his area by jeep and by foot, as priest, teacher, doctor and jack-of-all-trades. 
From GEORGE J. DESPOT: "Upon my return to I Shrevcport, a mass of detail has delayed my u-riting to you, I just wanted to drop you a short I note and express my sincere appreciation for your 
kindness to us while we were in Xcw York. 
"We enjoyed your company and Bctty*s, and we are looking forward to seeing both of you again later this year." 
From CHUCK SARTORE: ".\farilyn and DA\ ^ CARTWRIGHT spent a few da>-s with us last winter v/hile he u'as m ^fcmphis on business. He lives in Cleveland^ Ohio, and they had their sixth child on December 29th. I also received a Christmas card from VIXCE GUSHING. 
"Last week Davr called and asked us to be godparents (by proxv") of the new boy, Terence Christian." 
Well, that's all the news this time. If YOU don't write in, wc won't have any news for the next issue. 
From the Alumni OlFicc: 

Your modest Secretarj* neglected to mention one news item: AL LESMEZ achieved section head status with Sperr>' Gyroscope Co. when he was appointed counlermcasures reports supcr\'isor in the Countcrmcasurrs Dinsion, with full responsibility for reports. (Ed. Note: this includes reports on the Class of 1945. Congratulations. Al. J. L.) 
DR. ELMER F. GILLESPIE, is a major and cliief of medical ser\*iccs at EgHn Air Force Base in Florida. 
TED ^\'EBER, JR., formerly associate editor and news editor, has been named managing editor of Electrical Merchandising, McGraw-Hill's appliancc­radio-TV magazine 
194 6 Jack Tcnge, Jr. J ** 2025 W. Six Mile Road Detroit 3, Michigan 
From the Alumni Ofltce: 

REV. ROBERT M. DEITERS, S.J., was ordained in St. Ignatius Church, Tokyo, Japan, on March 18. 
LEO A. KLIER is now a consumer sales repre­sentative with Standard Oil in Indianapolis. Leo has seven children in the family basketball team. 
Heading up the materials laboratory force at the Reynolds Metals Company's Shellield, Alabama, i missile plant is NORMAN J. WANINGER. Norm 
is married, has two children. 
THOMAS E. WARD, son of the late Arch Ward, has been appointed xssistant to the director of public relations of United States Steel Corpora­tion in Chicago. 
194 7 Jack Miles, Jr. 3218 Bentley Lane South Bend 13, Indiana 
Sadly we must report the death of another of our classmates. 
WILLIAM ANDREW PFISTER of Long Beach, Ind., died ot a cerebral hemorrhage Sept. 15 in Michigan City, Ind.; he would have been 33 in another month. 
Employed at the lime of his death as export manager for the U. S. Slicing Machine Co., Inc.. at nearby LaPorte, Bill is survived by his wife, the former Emy Lou Far^o; two children, Kay, 8, and Maik, 3; his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Harry 
C. Pfister, and by three brothers and a sister. After completing the Na\y program at Notre Dame, he served in the South Pacific and was re­called to active duty during the Korean war. 
FATHER JOHN A. DRISCOLL, C.S.C., offered a Requiem High Mass for the repose of Bill's soul, Ash Wednesday, at the request of his class, in St. Patrick's Church in South Bend. Please remember him—and his aggrieved family as well —in your prayers. 
Those of you who have been meaning to send $2 or more for the class Mass fund will do well to let this be the time for mailing me a check or a bill; wc never know whicli action will be our last. 
Shortly before deadline, wc received a note from Emy Lou Pfister expressing her thanks for the Requiem Mass and assuring us it gave her great comfort. "I'm sure that nothing could have made Bill happier,** she wrote, "as Notre Dame was very special to him. . . . Please thank Father Driscoll and the Class of *47 for me.** 
Congratulations to Charles Poinsattc oa his first-FR/\NK J. MCDONOUGH, JR., m 
Frank McDonough, an associate of M. 

N. AVeir and Sons, Inc., Florida realtors, for the past two years, \vas named general sales manager of the firm in February by Milton N. Weir, Jr., president. 
Frank will super\-isc activities of Weir 

offices in Fort Lauderdale, Boca Raton and 
Delray Beach, and his headquarters will be 
in the Weir Building Atlantic Boulc\*ard, 
Pompano Beach. 
He came to Florida from Chicago, where 

he \vas president and general manager of 
Live Stock Press Publishers for eight years. 
He is an Arts and Letters graduate of Notre 
Dame and is the current president of the 
Notre Darac Club of Fort Lauderdale. 
Frank also worked for advertising and 

public relation firms in Chicago, and for 
the International News Scr\-ice. 
He is secretary-treasurer of the Pompano Beach Kiwanis Club; is a member of the Pompano Beach JayCees and an associate of the Board of Realtors. He lives with his wife. Marge, and three children at 2675 
N. E. 25th Street, Lighthouse Point. 
bom. He is married to the former Anne ^^arie Harl, a French girl with an authentic and charm­ing accent, whose father is an N.D. grad and who herself is a "Noire Dame man" for she is pur­suing her ALA. in English. Charlie is teaching at St. Mary*s and he met her there, she being also on the facultv. 
Part HI of the BROTHER IVAN DOL.VN, 

C.S.C., Story: ''How is the collection for him 
coming along?" Tliat is a good question; un­
fortunately, the answer isn't nearly as good. 
So far your Secretary has dispatched just 530 to Pakistan, and one third of that amount has come from an "outsider" .. . a Fort Dodge, Iowa, lawyer named DON N. KERSTEN who graduated in 1948! 
Writes Don: "Just read THE ALU.MNUS and note your appeal for funils. Can't think of a better project for your class. I also knew FATHER FR:\NK McFARLAND and Brother I\-an's brother, now FATHER PAT DOL.\N, at N.D. All of the Holy Cross men in Pakistan are doing a wonderful job under tr>'ing conditions. . . . Enclosed—my small bit.*' 
r-T~~^—w-^^,.r^-,i.,mmw,tmw<mMmMt^mt^, 

With the permission of our President, JOHN .MASTRANGELO, I'd like to propose Don for honorary membership in the '47 class entitled to all the privileges and rights adhering thereunto . . . like having his name capitalized in the news notes, for instance. Thanks, DON KERSTEN, for your gratuitous gesture. 
*'I got hold of the October issue of THE ALUMNUS just a few days before Christmas,** Brother I\-an reveals, "while I was in Dacca town tr^'ing to get more cement for the work I 'am doing . . ^{y spirits and hopes are high because there are a lot of swell fellows in the class of '47 and I know they are going to come through with some more donations. TTiere will be no end to the work wc will be able to do. 
". . . These da>-s I hardly have time to think (this was written Jan. 18. Ed. note). The new school year began on Jan. 6. We have mpre^: than 1,100 boys in the school again this year. "^ Many more applied for admission, but I couldn't take them all; no room, too few teachers. • ---Tlianks again to you and all the members of •-the^ class of '47 for everything you arc doing to help in the mission work. Keep me in your good prayers." 
Keep thlt phrase from that letter in mind: 
". . . T KNOW they are going to come through 
with some more donations." Are vou? 
Personal to DON'NELLY McDONALD: We're 
all sorry the gradi weren't sufficiently aware of 
your cnnsidcroblc ability to vote you to the 
Alumni Bozrd of Directors. It's a select grouD 
you missed joining. Don, but I know your friends 
of *47 join me in laying odds you'll make it one 
day .. . as will others of our class, wc trust. 
Memories of the great victorv* over Oklahoma 
were revived by a letter from JACK NOONAN, 
who has been with the FBI since 1950 and in the 
Chicago ofHce of that great organization since 1951. 
"In November," he recounts." T had the good 
fortune of being in Oklahoma City and got over 
to Norman to watch the biggest upset of the year. 
I didn't know that T was going to Oklahoma until 
three davs before the came, so I had to rely uDon 
an ai;ent in the Oklahoma City office. 'Spot' 
Gentry, who was quite a ball player for Oklahoma 
some years back. lie was able to get a pair on 
the 50. (Ed. note!!!:) and we watched the game 
together. Notre Dame was excellent in heating a 
great Oklahoma team." 
Jack reports a h-'a^T concentration of Notre Dame »"<*n in the BMr*^u's Wii'Iv Citv nf^rr— TOM KERRIGAN. .TACK McHONAGH, MAURY WH1TF„ BILL .ROF.MER. EDWARD "MIKK" HALT.ORAN. FRANK MATTHYS, and BILL McCORAHCK—-and apologizes for havini; to miss the reiini"n because of the coincident restwnsibilities of moving to a new h^mc and of welcoming the fourth child born to him and the former Joan Hitchner of Mishawaka. 
AMLLIAM T. (BILL) PECK has bought out 
C. .A. Girard & Co. in Niles. Mich., and will continue the 15-vear-oId firm's oolicv of serving as distribution headquarters for the sheet metal and heating equipment tratle in northern Indiana and southern Michigan. Bill, who lives \vith his wife and five children in South Bend, assumed command of the company the first of March; he gain-d considerable experience in the field during his nine years with the Tiffin Art Metal Co. of South Bend, having been its branch manager prior to his resignation. 
New addresses arc arailable for: REV. THONLAS 
O. BARROSSE. C-S.C: WILLIAM R. BARTLETT, WALTER S. BIVENOUR. D.ANIEL J. BOYLE, JR.. ANDREW J. BURKE, PAUL M. CEDERWALL, PHILIP A. COSTELLO, ROBERT F. CUTTER, MAURICE C. DAMS, THOMAS L. DUFFY, JOHN L. DUGGAN, D.ANIEL M. EICH, JAMES 
H. EVANS, BERNARD F. FALLON, JR., ROBERT J. FOERSTNER, ROBERT A. FOOS, JOHN S. FORSTER, EWARD J. FRERICKS, VENTURA GONZALEZ, PAUL P. GOODM.AX, JOHN R. HOUGHTELING, DR. RICHARD F. BUCK, JR., CHARLES J. JOINER, ROBERT R. KEEN.\N, BROTHER KERIC DEVER, C.S.C., CHARLES E. KOEGLER, ROBERT B. KURTZ, VERNON D. McVRDLE. PATRICK J. McCUL-LOUGH, PATRICK L. McSHANE, WILLIAM A. MADDEN, ALVIN C. MARRERO, JOHN L. MARTIN, CLEO E. .MELCHER, FRANCIS E. REY, NELLO A. SALVATI, FRANCIS J. SHAN. NON, JOHN J. TAYLOR. JOHN a THONUS. WILLIAAf J. THOMPSON, JA.MES J. TORFY, ROBERT H. WATERBURY, JR., ROBERT F. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May^June, 1958 59 
AX'EYBURNE, EDWARD H. WILHELMI, and CHARLES W, YAKEMONIS. 
How 'bout dropping a line my way, men? And how 'bout doing it TODAY? To give or glean information, just pen a few lines and your class­mates will appreciate hearing about you. To move you to action (or hara-kiri, I don't know %%'hich), permit m^ to close with "An Ode written On Glancing Over The Usual Contents Of My ^^aiI­box:"' 
'•Bills I sec 
Of every size 
But precious little 
From YOU guys!" 
From the Alumni OfHce: VERNON (MICKEY) McARDLE, late of Elkhart, Ind., and Rodicster, N. Y., has settled Elouisc and the six little McArdlcs in Fort Wayne (4104 Arlington Ave-), where Mick is serving St. John the Baptist parish, playing the organ, direct­ing two choirs and teaching music in and out of school. 
DR. JOSEPH A. PAPPAL.\RDO has been pro­moted to associate professor of chcmistr>' at the University of Dayton, cfTectivc this September. 
EDWARD P. a\rAR O has been named district manager for St. Joseph Coimty, Ind., of State Farm Insurance Companies, 
loyeflR Reunion 
June 6-7-8 
CLASS 
'48 
1 948 Herman A. Zitt ' ** 635 Belmont Park, No. Dayton, Ohio 
Remember those tlircc great da>'s—^June 6, 7 and 8. 
At the meeting of the Class Secretaries in January I conferred \rith Local Reunion Chairman JOHN LAUGHLIN. In the foHowing weeks we appointed a South Bend reunion committee which includes: JOHN CREE\% JOHN DEFANT, JOE KRUYER, JIM MELLO, BOB SCHOON­0\'ER, LARRY SCHUBERT, JULUN \^ANDE­WALLE, BILL VOLL and LEO ZUCKOWSKY. These fellows have been bus>' with arrangements for a memorable w*eek end which will include billets and refreshments in our old stomping ground, Dillon Hall, a trek across campus for Mass at the Grotto and meals at tlie beautiful new North Dining Hall, and many more events. 
In the past couple of months you have received mail regarding the reunion details. If you mis­placed your "early bird" card you can fire ofT at postcard to let us knoiv you're coming. Get on the phone and call your classmates. Get a group together and drive up for the big week end. 
Coach VINCE BORYLA of the New York Knickerbockers pro basketball team is a guy who likes to speak his mind. Vlnce found talk is not cbeap, ho\^'cver, when his remarks to and about a referee in a Januar>' game with the Philadelphia Warriors drew a fine of 5325, the second largest penalty- in the history of the N.B.A., and got a humorous write up jn the usually staid New York Times, Hope you'll give us the real lou'do\\'n at the reunion, Vince. 
TOM DOOLEY continues to pop up on so many fronts he makes us dizzy. On top of bis old appearances with Arlcnc Francis and Dave Garroway he has showed up in a picture spread in Life Magazine, for a lectiwc in Clarksburg, ^V. Va,, and is getting to be a regular on Jack Paar*s midnight TV opus, plugging MEDICO, his jungle hospital in Laos, his books and, by dressing thou­sands of Laotian kids in Notre Dame tee shirts, BROTHER COXAN and the N.D. bookstore. Tom's latest award was honorary membership in the Oblates of Mary Immaculate for his medical aid to the missions. Author of "Deliver Us From EWI," best selling account of Vietnam after the fall of Dicnbicnpliu, be is bringing out a new book, **Edgc of Tomorrow,'* dealing with his medical work* in the Oblate missions of Laos. 
JOHN J. GOONEN recently announced his resignation as basketball coach and teacher at St. Augustine's High, Kalamazoo, Mich. Possessor 
60 Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June^ 2958 
JACKSON B. CHUNG, '42 

Recently named chief engineer at Dodge Manufacturing Corporation, Misha^vaka, Ind., manufacturer of power transmission machinery, Jackson Chung has a colorful personal history in addition to an impres­sive record in the field of engineering. 
Bom in Shansi, China, in 1914, Jackson ser\'ed as a fighter pilot in the Chinese Air Force prior to his matriculation at Notre Dame and had also studied civil engineer­ing in Shanghai. 
After graduation in mechanical engineer­ing Jackson continued his education at Notre Dame and received his M.S. in phys­ical metallurgy in 1943. He spent two years traveling around the U. S. for advanced training with eleven of the major Amer­ican machine tool manufacturers before joining the export division of Studebakcr Corporation in South Bend as engineer in charge of Chinese operations. Later he ser\'ed as a machine tool specialist with William Hunt and Company of New York. 
Since 1948 he has been associated with Dodge Manufacturing in \*arious engineer­ing capacities and was chief development engineer before his promotion early in March. 
A United States citizen, Jackson is mar­ried, has two children and lives in Misha­waka. 
of a fine over-all record at St. Augustine's Joliet 
Catholic and Peoria Spalding in Illinois, John 
decided to quit after a losing season in Kalamazoo, 
would like to work for a Ph.D. in education, may 
not return to coaching. 
JOSEPH T. KIVLIN has been named ^Vsslstant 
Secretary* of S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc., Racine, 
Wis,, continues as senior patent attorney in the 
law department. 
GEORGE SE.4LY has left the California & 
Hawaiian Sugar Co. and has been appointed mana­
ger of profit planning for California's Purity Stores, 
Ltd. 
All-Amcrican JOHN J. YOXAKOR, who quit 
pro football in 1933 after playing In Cle\-eland, 
New York, Washington and the Canadian League, 
is now with the Republic Steel and has just been promoted to assistant superintendent of the labor department at Republic's Cleveland steel plant. Back around Christmas John married Madeline Sharetts of Morgantown, ^V. Va. 

Tliat's all for now. Sec you all at the re­

194 9  J^^ Walker  
•'^  '  826 Wing Sdreet  
Elgin,  Illinois  

From tl.c Alumni Office: JOHN R. CONLISK has been appointed re­search chemist with the Atlas Powder Co. in Wilmington, Dela\%-are. DR. STEPHEN J. GALLi\, JR., is an anesthe­siologist in a new research lab at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston, Mass. EDWARD J. MCCARTHY has been named manager of Brooks Memorial Union, student center at Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wis. ROBERT W. PO>\TLL has moved wife Carol and the five children to a new location, 3305 Glcncaim Road, Shaker Heights 22, Ohio. LEWIS J. SHIOLENO bas been appointed general manager of the Electronics Division of the Erie Resistor Corporation, lives in Erie, Pa., with wife Grayce and three children. JAMES E. BARNARD has been made a South­eastern division sales manager by Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co. EDWARD L. FLEMING, a former Instructor at Notre Dame and now a structure engineer with Douglas Aircraft in EI Segundo, Calif., won an award from his company for an outstanding con­tribution to aeronautical science with his study of aircraft safety factors in a nuclear shock wave. 
I OCA Richard F. Hahn "^^ 6930No.OdelI Chicago 31, Illinois 
From the Alumni Office: 

DUD BIRDER, late of Elkhart, Dayton and Nova Scotia, has settled Mary and the three children In St. Paul, Minn., where Dudlc>* is organist and choir director at St. Mark's Church and studying fo" a doctorate in music at the University of Minne­sota. 
On ifarch 14 HENRY R. ROBERTS delivered a technical paper at • a mceting-in-miniature of the American Chemical Society's New York section at the Roosevelt Hotel In New York City. Hc*s in chromatographic research and development for the National Dairy Products Corp. in Oakdale, L.I., New York. 
T. T. "TED" GORE, assistant to the general manager of the Fort Lauderdale Daily News, accepted Boating's Goldin Award from the National .Assn. Oi Engine and Boat Manufacturers for his paper's leadership in boat advertising and promotion of recreational boating in 1957. 
GEORGE W. VALENTA of Bingliamton, N. Y., has been appointed staff engineer of s>-stcm de­velopment engineering at the Owcgo, N, Y,. plant of the International Business Machines Corp. 
I OCI Robert J. Klingcnberger 
• 2634 Marcy Lane F t Wayne, Indiana 

Never ttart anything with an apology-, I'm told—but I broke a rule by not making the last ALUMNUS, so I'll break another and apologize. It Is probably a good thing, though, because with­out that news there wouldn't be a column this time. 
Ills wife Nancy writes for DAN BAGLEY, that since getting out of service two years ago, Dan is a sales representative for Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. m the Upper Pcnnln^ula of Michigan. They have three diildren, Daniel, Jr., 3, Joseph, 2. and Beth x\nn, born June 20, 1957. Tlieir address: 216 Ist Avenue S., Escanaba, ^fich. 
Announcement—^Joanne and JACK MURPHY, a son, Patrick John, bom February 22, 1958. Com­ment: "Future N.D. quarterback of 1976." Dad is coaching In San Diego. Address: 5665 Jackson Drive, LaMesa, Calif. 
CHARLES TALLEY writes that he graduated from Harx'ard La%v School in '54, then spent two years in the army. He is married—has two girls and a boy. Business address: Ist National Bank Bldg,, Tampa 2, Fla. 
LOU REICH, a captain In the ^^edicaI Corps, uTites that he graduated from Tulane Medical School in '55, and while Interning he met and married a lovely nurse from Afacon, Ga., Carolyn. His resid'^ncy in radiology was interrupted by Uncle Sam, and now he is a flight surgeon stationed in Piestwick, Scotland. Address: Captain, USAF (MC), I63Ist USAF Dispensary "A," Al'O 202, Xcw York, N. Y. 
Lou also writes about some other fellows: AL LINDEN, '52, a navigator with Air Rescue; ED BATTERSBY, who finished at Johns Hopkins in '56, and he and his pediatrician wife arc taking further training. Lou reports that JIM \V.-\CK was starting in flight surger>* as he finished in Texas; TEX ATCHISON is married, has three children and is working with an oil company in Houston, Texas, as a geologist; NED WEDL^VKE was in army basic training for doctors at Fort Sam Houston and is now assigned to the Soldier's Home in Washington, D. C. 
BOB NICKODEM writes that his first girl was born on Nov. 21, *57, after three boys, Bobby, ^Viy Michael, 2, and Kevin, 1. Bob was made an assistant trust officer and lie and Margaret are building a new four-bedroom home. Bob attended a meeting In New York last October and reports on two bachelors: JACK McKELVEY, who is doing well with Prudential Insurance Co.," and AL BAILEY* who is teaching hisior>* in a high school in North Haledon, N. J. Bob also wrote about visiting BILL CAREY, Helen and Billy in Skokic, 111.^ last summer. 
^^y wife and I took in ihc Army game and saw BOB ED.MONDSON and his wife itary the Friday night before, Saturday of the game Mar>* went to the hospital, and on 5imday, Oct. 13, their flrst­born John, arrived. (How did you stand up to Friday night, Saturday's game and your son's birth, Ease?) At the game I saw BOB WILLIAMS, who is in the real estate business in Baltimore, ilary­land; JERRY GROOM, is in the trucking business in Denver, Colo., and had been attending a meet­ing in New York; JOE SHELLY, who had driven out from Chicago for the game, and PAT GAL-LfVGHER and Kitty, who arc living in Garden City, New York, ^ l a cocktail party following the game we saw GEORGE KEOUGH and his parents; HOBV TAYLOR, who also drove out from Chi­cago; M. O'DONNELL, now living in Washington, 
D. C , and BILL COONEY, who had just re­turned from Korea and is now in San Francisco. 
From Fort ^Vayne, JIM B.\TES, who has been practicing law here, has enrolled at Loyola in Chicago and plans to enter the Major Scminar>­next fall after a six-month course In Latin. 
JACK TR(\CY writes that after three years in the Navy he spent three years in Europe on the 
G.I. Bill and married a Dutch girl last October. Congratulations and best wishes. Jack. They intend to move to and settle in San Francisco. 
BILL ANHUT writes that he is still in the hotel business, managing two hotels, has four children and bought a home last year in N.W. Detroit. 
Sally writes for H/\NK AfADDEN (20 Oakmont Lane, Timberllnks, Signal Mountain, Tenn.), says that they have just moved into their new home and at prtsent have two girls, 3 and 2, and a son about 1 year old. (Sally, at present we still have two, Jerry, 214, and Mary Beth, 15 months.) Sally also wrote that they have seen JOE DELJ\NEY, who is in the foundry business with his father, has two boys and a girl. Also, they have seen DON SONDAG and his wife, who are now stationed at Fort Benning, Columbus, Ga. 
AL ABBEY has been appointed, among 76 out of a group o! approximately 600, by the Attorney General's 1957 Recruitment Program for Honor Law Graduates, to a post in the Department of Justice. Al received his LL.B. from Vanderbilt University Law School last June. He was manag­ing editor of the Law Review,' president of the Student Bar Assn., bearer of a Delta Tlicta Phi scholarship key and received the • Order of the Coif. Congratulations, Al. 
Marger>-, wife of TONY DaDAMIO, writes that they have three girls, ages 4, 2, and 6 weeks. Tony is coaching track, assisting at basketball and teacliing at Exeter High School in Reading, Pennsyl­vania. After leaving the service Tony attended Penn Slate University and received a master's degree. 

Following is a list of Christmas cards received with addresses and any comments contained there­in: HARVEY O'NEILL, wife Nanc%- and two sons, 
R.R. No. 4, Peru, Indiana; P.\T BARRETT, wife Joan (Pat is in the third year of medical school at Kansas Universitv), 5916 Goodman St., iferriam, Kansas; BILL COONEY; DICK McDONALD, wife Joey, two sons and a daughter, 241 Schilling, West Lafayette, Indiana; Mx\TT O'DONNELL, wife Pegg\- and daughters Patty and Kathy; FRANK BOLLER, wife .\nne and family, 15244 Kingside Drive, Covina, Calif.; PAT O'SULLIVAN. wife Nfaureen, 2015 Military Road, Port Huron, Mich.; BUD HERR, wife Barbara, Tommy, Susan and Stephen, Box H, Chatsworth, III.; BILL .VNHUT and wife Mary Claire; JIM FRICK, wife Bonny and the five children; STEVE MARTIN, who became engaged at Christmas and plans a spring wedding, 1319 Balfour, Crosse Pointe Park 30, Mich.; HARRY H/\NIG.\N, wife Marie, 9414 Laflin, Chi­cago, 111.; JOHN MOORE, who reported he is "taking the big step in April;" AL GUx\RNERI, wife Ann, Robbie and Pattie. 
From the .-Mumnl Office: DAN BRENNrVN has been in Oklahoma City with Shell, goes to Houston, Texas, in June till Septem­ber. DON JORD^VN is in Indianapolis with the Groundwater Division of the U. S. Geological Sur\-ey. OTTO KOPP is finishing his Ph.D. thesis In Brooklyn. WILBERT ODEM was recently promoted to head development geologist. West Delta area of the California Co., now has two children. DR. PAUL F. HOPPER has been promoted to director of food industry development in the Farm and Home Di\-ision of American Cvnamid Companv. HAROLD C. MUNC3ER, JR., son of HAROLD 
H. MUNGER, '15, partner and chief designer of Munger, Munger & Associates, won the Gold Trowel Award of the Toledo Bureau for Lathing and Plastering for his use of lath and plaster design for the New Hall of Music at Bowling Green State Uni%-=rsltv. 
REV. MICHAEL J. MURPHY, C.S.C., teaclies geolog>- and rectors the new Kecnan Hall. JIM O'HxVRA is in water softener sales In Indian­apolis. DAVID D. SMITH is teaching geology- at Dart­mouth College, Hanover, N. H. 
DICK GODSON and his family are reported safe in the Pakanbaru area of Sumatra in revolt-torn Indonesia. 
195 2 Harry L.Buch Board of Trade Building Wheeling, AVest Virginia 
From the Alumni Office: ROBERT T. aVRVILLE is working for H. L. Hunt Oil Company out of the Houston, Tex., office. ELMER F. LAYDEN, JR., has been appointed to the staff of the Chicago brokerage agency of Connecticut General Life Insurance Co. as a technical consultant. Elmer and wife Delorcs have 
year-old twin daughteis and live in RoscUe, 111. 
JOHN E. AL\ZUR, fresh from Tulanc coaching and the Canadian Lei^ue, is now backfield coach for Marquette University, iGhvaukee, ^VIs. 
GEORGE T. MOORE, married and a Ph.D., is working for California Co. out of Billings, Afont. LOUIS E. RIEG is teacliing geology at the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh. 
DONALD G. RILEY Is out of the Air Force and back »viih RIIe\- Engmeering and Drilling Co., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Reunion 
JMIIC 6-7-8 
CLASS 
'53 

195 3 Thomas W. Reedy • *• • 337 Wagner Road Northfield, Illinois 
TERENCE L. BRITT is now In Durango, Colo., had a second son, John Stephen, bom July 31 In Phoenix. 
PAT CROWE, JR., became the father of a third child, Michael Samuel, on St. Patrick's Day in Chattanooga, Tenn. Others are Candace, 5, and Pat III, 3. Pat's fallier hails from Tlpperary, and his brother Frank is at Notre Dame. 
^VTLLIA^f J. DiVNER has resigned as counsel for the North Dakota legislative research committee to enter pri\'ate law practice as a member of the firm of Lord, Ulmer, Bair & Dancr, Mandan and Bismarck, N. D. 
PAUL C. RAYMOND is In Midland, Tex., ^vith the Texas Co. 
RICHARD GILLIS, who took his Ph.D. here, is also a graduate of Melbourne and Sydney Univer­sities In his native Australia but sa>-5 **N.D. is considerably higher in my affection and interest"' because ".Australian universities take no interest In their graduates, who reciprocate wholeheartedly.*' Richard, who lives at 6 Curral Road, Elstemwick,. 
S. 4, Victoria. Australia, says he can't make the reunion but asks us to "let alumni knotv I have an open door for any \*isiting Melbourne." 
DAVID W. STEARNS is in Houston, Tex., work­ing toward a Ph.D. at Rice Institute at Sbdl Oil's expense, 
CHARLES E. STI.M.MING has been promoted from accounting assitant to results super\*isor by Indiana Bell in Indianapolis. 
ROBERT G. STR/\LEY is working toward an 

M.S. at L.5.U. and part time for Shell In Baton Rouge, La., plans to attend the reunion. 
Coach Tony DaDamio, '51 (right), N.D. track monogrammer now in his second year as track and basketball coach at Exeter High School, Reading, Pa., checks the fonn of track hopefuls Marlin Stoltzfus, Charles Willis and Duane Faust. 
NotTe Dame Alumnus^ May-June^ 1958 
JOHN F. SUUK, now an M.S., is working for the Texas Co. out of Houston. GEORGE C. THO.MAS is on leave from Ohio Oil working lor a master's from the U. of Arizona. 
ROBERT T. ZENZIN'GER, has been promoted to personnel manager of the Sorg Paper Co., iliddlctown, O. Bob and his wife live at 1920 Arlington Ave., Middlctown. 
EUGENE A. ZI.MPFER, S.J., is at Loyola Semi­nary, Shrub Oak, X- Y., busy showing Notre Dame campus and football movies to all comers. 
1 954 George A. Pflaum, Jr. 4262 Catalpa Drive, No. 2 Dayton 5, Ohio 
You i»'iU remember a few issues liack your extremely gufiy class secretary had the neivc to run a picture of his first-born for all to admire. TIic response lo tliis bold act drew no complaint, and even worse no other pictures, so it leads this same sccrclarj- to thoughts of further advertJse­jnent. Therefore, I issue the following warning to you, your wives, and I am sure your proud parents. If I don't receive a picture and a short biography •of your nomination for SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS, I am going to take some verj' drastic steps. Therefore, Class of '54, here Is your opportunity lo head me ofT. I am open for suggestions and Avclcomc any material you can supply me. I think that we have gone along too long without a repre­sentative of our class in the SPOTLIGHT ALUM­NUS feature of tliJs magazine. It's up lo you, don't "be sliy! 
I'd like to say thz.t at this point I'll swing right into the stack of mall that confronts me, but sucli an industrious sounding verb far over-stresses the real situation. If I were to swing I'm afraid I'd scatter this small stack beyond rc-Itlacement. I know the effect of these recent postal rate increases, but surely you can set aside enough for a stamp and direct a mention of your activities my way. If things don't get better, I might even offer to accept postage-due mail from any or all ol you. 
My thanks to all of you who sent greetings at Christmas lime and especially for those that en­closed the following news. AL SUWALSKI says that he just returned to the States from overseas and will join the First Marine Division in Cali­fornia after the first of the year. AI reports that SKIP DOYLE is at Camp Lejcune, North Caro­lina and that KEN PATTERSON is at the Naval Air Station, Atsugi, Japan. KEN MELCHIOR is living in Kansas City and works with an Investment company there. PAUL KE.-\RNEY is in Newport, Khodc Island doing a Httlc graduate work there-FR/\NK R.ArrH, JR., is living at 36 Falnvood "Street, MlUord, Connecticut. Second LT. ED LEWIS, G. A. R., Helen and their two children. Sharon and Megan, can be contacted at 323 Br\n Mauer, San Antonio, Texas. RICH HOHMAN reports in from the Marine Base at Jacksomille. North Carolina, where he is stationed along with LARRY CORBETT and DICK MOR^\N. Rich is liolding orders that will send him to Okinawa in the spring. JACK PITTAS is still attending George­town Law School and working at the Securities and Exchange Commission. He will receive mail at 3337B South AVakcficId Street, Arlington 6, \^r­glnla. PHIL BOLIN is the manager of sur\ey operations for the advertising agenQ', Young and Rubican, in Providence, Rhode Island. He re­ported a proposed transfer for him to the New York area in the spring. 
Three other formal-looking cards that I have In front of me report some recent additions. JOHN XEO ROSSHIRT, JR., joined JACK and Alana on December 14, 1957 at St. Luke's hospital in Pasadena, California. Marianne Elizabeth joined Patty and DAVE MAHER on November 12, at 23 WIson Avenue, S.E., St. Cloud, Minnesota. Rowe and RICH HOHM^\N welcomed their third arri^-al, Howard Joseph, to the fold on Fcbniary 24. Through the courtesy of TOM FIELD at Balliol, Oxford, England, I enjoyed reading the "G. P. Poop Sheet" dated October, 1957. In it I discovered tlie following: ANDY B.AUER was serving as an Inspector-instructor witli the Marine Corps at their reserve training center in Augusta, Maine. DA\T BURRELL, C.S.C., is continuing his studies in Europe. JIM CANNON has completed two full years In the philosophy department of the graduate school, Yale University, and is continuing his work towards his Ph.D. DAN COLEMAN and family live at 215 Krotiak Rosd, Park Forest IIHnois. Dan is with Popular Mechanics as manager of Sales 
62 Notre Dame Alumnus, May^June, 2958 
DR. FR.\NCIS J. SHORTSLEEVE, '43 
In the Metals Research Laboratories, keystone of the Electro - Metallurgical Co. Division of Union Carbide Corp., a young metallurgist from Notre Dame has risen in five years from assistant research engi­neer, through assistant group manager and group manager, to assistant director of re­search, both basic and applied, on ever>'­thing from ores to final alloy compositions. 
Frank Shortslecve returned to the Uni­versity in 1945, after two years in .4ir Corps cadet training, for graduate study in metallurgy under Dr. Troiano. After re­ceiving his M.S. he organized a small busi­ness in Elmira, N. Y., selling brass ingots to foundries in the area. Faced with a plummeting brass market, he dissolved the business to accept a position in tlie Engi­neering Research Laboratory of Standard Oil of Indiana in Chicago, where he en­gaged in three years of solid state equil­ibria studies in the iron-chromium-nickle system. In the fall of 1949 he moved to Cleveland, Ohio, to study toward a Ph.D. at Case Institute of Technology. His doc­toral work completed, he joined the stafT of "Electromet" research laboratories in Niagara Falls, N. Y., in 1952. 
Co-author of a book published last year and several papers on iron and steel alloys for the American Society for Metals and the American Institute of Mining, Metal­lurgical and Petroleum Engineers, Frank holds a patent on stainless steel alloy and apparatus for converting hydroca-^ He 
is a member of Sigma Xi and the IVA»,^J­lurgy Technical Advisory Committee for the Erie County Technical Institute. 
Ha\'ing married Mary Kathcrine Weaver of South Bend in 1946, Frank now has three children, Frederick Francis, Ann Es­
tella and Mary Beth. 
Promotion and Mcrcliandlslng. BOB DINEEN was recently discharged from the Army and is presently at Indiana University wx-rking on a Master's Degree in Business Management. BOB ETTELBRICK lives at 2 Meadow Park Lane, Springfield, Illinois. He is working with a construction company in the position of field office manager. PETER FRANK is doing graduate study at Catholic University in the English department. JOHN GRIFFIN completed his tour with the Naw and entered St, John's Seminar>* in Brighton, Mass. BRYON JENNINGS is working with the New York Telephone Company and also attending the New York University, working towards a Master's Degree In Business Administration. You may reach him at lIf)-30 63rd Road, Forest Hills, New York. CHARLIE KELLER is currently work­ing for a Master's Degree in English at Brown University. At last report, TOM SCHWIETZ was with the Air Force flying B-47s. His m:uling address was 14460 S.W., 291 Street, Leising City. Florida. 
Ann and CHARLIE TOUHEY reside at 13 Costa Street, North Dartmouth. Massachusetts. I saw them both in Boston last fall and Charlie was most enthusiastic about his sales position with a chemical company. RAY TILLEY Is working with the General Electric Company In Oxnard. California. 
Lt. TOM SHORT called while I was In the process of writing this article. He was on a week-end cro~.s countr>-flight getting in some flying time for the Air Force. .After finishing Law School at Notic Dame, Tom went through the .-\F flight program. Since then he has been doing contract negotiations for them with the IB^^ Com­pany. He was recenllv In Washington to act as Godfather for BILL V0OR*s first-born, a boy. BILL is doing legal work with the .'Vir Force In the Washington area. PUD RICE Is also in Washington, attending Law School at Georgetown University. Tom can be reached at the following address: Ass't. OHiccr in Charge, US.-\F IBif Plant Office. Kingston, New York. 
I received the following nice letter from BILL GARTELL. "Since graduation In '54 I was married shortly afterward and worked for Sikorsky Aircraft Co., Bridgeport, Conn, for three months and was then called into the .\ir Force. I was stationed at the beautiful oxsis, Webb .-\.F. Base. Big Spring. Texas where our first boy was born and deceased shortly afterward, and Cheryl .\nn was born (now 18 nios.). After much debate and two years of Air Force life I started to work for my Dad selling DeSotos and PIxTnouths. I have been selling cars for a year and a half now, and really cnfoy it. We bought a home on Long Island. Our address is 27 Loretta Drive, Syosset. New York. AVhat really prompted me to write was the arrival of our twin boys on November 23. 1957, Stephen Michael and Daniel James, and it was quite a surprise to us, too. I have been keeping posted with 'MIKE' LYONS. He is working for Lock-herd Aircraft in HoIN".vood. California. Peggy and AL WALTER live In Jamaica. New York. He works for Metropolitan Life and seems to be doing fine. They have a daughter. Maureen. 1 year, ED FITZPATRICK and Betty live In Mlneola. New York and he works for the Texas Co. Tlic>- have a daughter Kathy, 1 year, and a boy. Eddie, Jr.. 2 nionths.^^ 
I received the following note from Mrs. DICK MORAN whicli I am going to quote in its entirely. I think it Is a fine example of how the better half of those married to *54s can keep me posted for the benefit of others. 
**Alloiv mt to introduce myself. I'm Mar>' Miles Moran, daughter of J. Frank Miles, N.D. '21, sister of Jack Miles, N.D. '47 and, since June of 1955, wife of DICK MORAN, N.D. '54. Now the plot thickens! The purpose of this note (which will probably turn out to be half a dojen pages long) is to catch you up on the whereabouts of Dick since you are the Alumni sccrctarv' of his graduating class. Dick received his M.A. from Notre Dame in *56. Then he entered OCS in the Marine Corps and was commissioned 2nd Lt. in December, 1956. Following 8 months of Basic School at Quantico, Virginia, we were stationed at Camp Lejeune, N. Carolina. On October 22, 1957 our twosome became a threesome with the addition of our lovely daughter, Margaret M3r>'. In January of this year Dick left on a five month cruise to Europe and writes that he is truly enjoying this opportunity to travel and visit several European countries. And now to ask a favor. Do you have current addresses for PAT aVRRICO and HUGH BRAUN? If so, we sure would ap­pr«:i3tc receiving them." 
I'm sorry I can't fill your request for the 

addresses, Mao'i tiut I am sure if my readership is 
what it should be, these gentlemen will contact 
you. The Morans may be reached at 1405 E. 
McKinley, South Bend, Indiana. 
JOE JOYCE has recently completed his six-

month period of defending our shores and has 
rejoined the law firm of Holliday, Miller, Myers 
and Stewart in Dcs Moines, Iowa. Wc had the 
pleasure of a visit witli him and his charming wife. 
Donna, here in Dayton last fall. At that time 
PAT KIRSCH stopped by to sec us^ too, so we 
all bad a fine reunion. Joe and Donna are living 
at 1800 Matrons Xo. 29B, Des ^^oines, loi»a. Joe 
rpports seeing JIM BOESEN quite frequently. Jini 
is actively engaged with his father as a florist in 
Des Moines. 
CHARLES G. WAGNER, President, Wagner 

Commission Lumber Sales, Eugene, Oregon sends 
the following: 
'*Paper boys make good once in a wliIIc. even 

the former Alumni paper peddler. My eight-digit 
serial number prefixed by a "US " drew a dandy 
iissigiiinent in Frankfurt, Germany with a joint 
ser\*ice unit handling air transportation for troops 
and dependents. Woiked with the civilian air lines, 
and during one long TDY met a Catholic Bosionian 
who was at the time a flight nurse with one of 
the iion-schedulcd airlines under contract with the 
Dept, of Army. We were married last Mav, ablv 
assisted by TOM (Roomer) MURPHY and DICK 
McXAMARA. CH^VS. TOUHEY got to the wed­
ding, too, and we had a chance to meet .Ann 
Porter, who now has added the name Touliey, wc 
hear. Presently, my wife and I are living here in 
Eugene, Oregon. After working in a lumber mill 
all stimmcr, I Marled my own business here in 
September. Xaptown U still where wc intend to 
live, and will return there in the spring after I 
have made all my n-pdrd contacts out bete. 
"Hack in '54 you thought youM be an old man 

by the time of our 1st 5-year reunion. Xow that 
it's just a year away, how do you feel? Couldn't 
possibly be fatter than you were, but I'll bet 
you're balder." (Secretary's note: He's right!) 
Corny: spring. Charlie and the new Mrs. can be 
readied at 6815 X. Pennsylvania Street, Indiana­
polis. Indiana. 
On the official stattonar>' of the Secretary' of the Xntrc Dame Club of Decatur. Ilinois I received the following message from MILT BEr\UDIXE. "I've done it. On Christmas Eve I became engaged to Marie Ladic. I met her in September. She is a nurse and graduated from St. Joseph's in South Bend. I didn't know her there. She's not from St. Mary's but its as close as I could get. We expect to be married here in Decatur on June 14. 1958. Can yoii-all possibly make it? Drinks to follow! (And I owe you a few.)" 
From 192'/2 E. Rces Street, Fon du Lac, Wis­consin, BILL GUILFOILE furnishes the following: 
"I'm w-orking here in Fond du Lac for the A. C. Nielson Co. (marking research and analysis). Tliey started :i branch here about two years ago and I was quite fortunate to find an opening. 
"Xow for the alumni news. The status of JOE IMBRIACO and DAVE GILSDORF is still un­changed. Joe is with a law firm In New York and Dave is with Weslinghousc in Pittsburgh. JOE BILSINGER Is workiug in Milwaukee for the telephone company. He's married to a girl from Milwaukee and they have one child. DICK DEXI­GER is in the ser:d business with his father in Beaver Dam, Wbconsin. Dick has 2 children. JIM FERRON and family are still residing in xXppIcton. BOB CRESPY is in tnc insurance business in Xew Castle, Pa. KEX BOULAY and his wife, Phyllis, were over last night. They have a lovely daughter, Michcle, 214 years old. Ken is in the feed and grain business here In Fond du Lac with liis father. He had the follo%ving neivs: 
"DICK ANTON is attending Law School in Pittsburgh and will graduate in June. 1959. WALT BABCOCK was married February 15 to a girl from New York and is working for the Avon Corporation there. ED WHITE attended the Notre Dame Law School and is working in Wall Street. JIM BOULEY is working for Motorola in Chicago and doing grad work at X'orthwestcm. JACK BRISETTE is in X'ew York in the training pro­gram of Merill Lynch. JIM SCHRADER is living in Washington, D,C. BILL KE^VRY is working in Baltimore for the Maryland Blue Cross and Blue Shield. He's planning on law school in September. ED GESCHUTN is si-ll in the Xaval Air Force (South Sea Islands, I believe). BOB FRIES was recently discharged from the Army after a siege in Germany." 
JOSEPH S. SIGNAIGO, '48 

This year Joe Signaigo was appointt:d to the newly-crcatcd position of Southern area sales manager by Milwaukee's Miller Brew­ing Company, responsible for twelve South-i.'rn states and the District of Columbia. Since July, 1955, he has managed sales for Miller in Alabama, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee, with headquar­ters in the Dermon Building, Memphis. 
Former general sales manager of the Tennessee Brewing Co., Memphis, Joe is even better known in football, having earn­ed All-America honors as a captain and guard at Notre Dame. He later played with the New York Yankees in the All-Amcrican Conference and with the New York Giants in the National Football League, winning All-Pro honors in 1950. 
For the last few years, Joe has been active in the Prep AU-American football classic, played every summer in Memphis. In 1957, he presented to Ronnie Hartline of Oklahoma, on behalf of the brewery, the Frank Leahy trophy, which was established in 1952 by the late Fred Miller and is awarded to the outstanding player of the annual gridiron spectacle. 
Besides the aforementioned states, Joe will be responsible for Miller sales in Flor­ida, Georgia, North and South Carolina, Maryland, Virginia and West Virginia. 
He presently lives with his wife and three children at 945 Colonial Road, Memphis, but is expected to make his head­quarters in Milwaukee after a replacement has been named. 
Well, gentlemen, that's the picture for this issue. Please excuse the brevity, those of you that supplied something; th.-wc of you that didn't, please assume tlic blame. Before I close, may 1 ask your aid in a very important project. One of our class­mates is having a very dillicult time of it financially. You would never know this to sec him or spend any time with hini, but it is disclosed by the fact thac the lad can't supply himself with ink, station­ary, or postage stamps. A formal campaign to help this individual has been started and I ask you for your generosity. Contributions toward these supplies may be made directly to him. Address your contributions to: JAKE NOONAN, 3915 Orchard Street, Sioux City, Io\va. As Jake's former room­mate, I will sincerely appreciate anything you can do in this cfTort. 
From the Alumni OfHce: 
FATHER JOSEPH D. BARRY, C.S.C., will ofTcr a Mass on May 31 for departed members of the Class of 1954 requested in behalf of the class, by a member who wishes to remain anonymous. He suggests that all members join in the intention and remember their deceased classmates in a special way on that day. 
DAVID B. FOY has been appointed a field engi­neer by the Xorton Company, Worcester, Mass. 
EUGENE W. HENRY has been awarded a re­newal of his fellowship from the N'ational Academy of Sciences—National Research Council to continue his electronic computer research at Stanford. 
JOHNNY LATTNER is all signed up to coach football at the new St. Joseph High School in Kenosha. Wis. 
THO.\L\S F. MOORE is in his third year at Wayne Slate University Medical School. JOHN S. DcFATO is working towards his M.S. on a fellowship at the Unlversitv of Arizona. 
CHARLES J. CAZEAU is in Lubbock, Tex., mapping for Humble Oil Co., plans to go for a doctorate at an eastern school. 
First lieutenant JAMES E. MURRAY has been assigned to the legal staff of the Judge Advocate General Section. Headquarters, Second U. S. Array. 
KENNETH A. SCHWARZ is still flying photo mission:; for the Air Force, has a year-old son. 
REV. THOMAS J. SCHWTNN of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, finished his stuJIes at Mt. St. Bernard Seml­narv and was ordained in Dubuque, Iowa, Februarv 
1. His brother DR. CH.\RLES "PETE*' SCHWINN is now a pathologist at Anderson Hospi­tal, Houston, Texas. 
TI.MOTHY C. SOTTEK is in grad school at South Dakota School of Mines. 
Congratulations to DON ROSS, who is now an assistant to J. ARTHUR HALEY in Notre Dame's public relations office, and to JIM KELLEHER, who was chairman of the South Bend Press Club's "Hoaxes of 1958." 
I Oee Thomas F. O'Malley 
• '^ ^ 6738 Kenwood Kansas City, Missouri 
It's that time again, so lean back, light up, and prepare to be briefed on the class of *55, past, present, and future. At the start, a personal "thank you" to all of those who contributed the class news that makes this column possible. I know-that sometimes It's rather difficult to take the time to write a letter, and considering this, I ap­preciate your efforts even more. I know that there are still those who read the column every time that it appears but who have never taken the time to contribute anything. It's never too late, men, to fill me in on yourselves and any other grads that you might have bumped into during the last two years. 
I would like to begui by speaking for the class in offering our deepest s>Tnpathy to Dr. and Mrs. Edward J. McCormtck on the death of their son MICHAEL J. McCORMICK, December 22, 1957. Tlic>' can be sure that he will be remembered in our prayers. 
This Christmas was rather an interesting one since you people came up with some of the most original greeting cards that I had ever seen.. Greetings camr inscribed on elephant skin from HUGH SCHAEFER, who is stni holding forth in Tulsa. Now I'm convinced, Hugh, those new pens will write on anything. Buried in. a lar^c potato I discovered a note from LARRY HARRISON and his wife Nancy. They now live in Idaho Falls, Idaho, and Larry is working for Phillips Petroleum-He mentions hearing from PHIL POWELL, who is due home from Germany and the Army before too long. 
It's always good to hear from FRANK BURKE and his wife Ann and they manage to have some­thing new to report cvary time. So you ask what's new? Well, I'm not much good at guessing names, but I can say that a "he," or "she" Burke was expected to arrive sometime near St. Patrick's Day, Congratulations to the Wisconsin's ex-D.O-' and spouse. MIKE COSTELLO sent Christmas greet­ings from the land of 'milk, honey, and rented cars—Las Vegas. Mike Avas in service the last 
Notre Dame AlumnuSy May-June, 2958 63 
time I heard and I imagine tliat it will be a little 
while yet before he's rrlcascd. Don't \vorr>-, Mike, 
those last two year: juJt fly by. 
Ah, that gumbo at Mar>-'s place was just like 

I remembered it. However, they could have used 
a little more heat in the placc-
PAT McGAHAN sent a card from Chula \nsta. 

Calif., where he's stationed with the Xa\y. If I 
know Pat he's already made his rescr\ations to fiy 
home to the 500 mile classic on Memorial Day. 
It's a great day at the brickyard. Received a 
holiday "hello" from CIVRL PETERS and his wife 
^faureen. They're now living in Lajolla, Calif. 
RON REXE checked in with a card from Bristol, 
R.I. but as always, he forgot to send money. Hate lo mention it, Ron, but a fiver at Easter sure would buy a lot of egg dye. They celebrated Christmas at Georgetown Medical School and just lo prove it, I received a card from TED L;\UGH-LlS* who hadn't been heard from since he was swallowed into the crowd at the Penn game in 1955. I had given up all hope of him ever bring found alive. Welcome back, Ted, and while I'm at it, congratulations on your marriage lo Marijlc on the 8lh of .April. She's a lucky girl, but have vou told her that vou can't cook? Ted sa\-s that all Is well with JOE SWIFT, KEVIN O'DOXNELL, ED TOO.MEY, TONY .MICALE, and STEVE CONWAY. 
JIM Cv\HILL let me know that he was cele­

brating Christmas in fine style and I'm sure that 
he's enjoying civilian life as much as the rest of 
us. As was reported in my last column, DA\ ^ 
METZ finally listened long and hard to the 
"Tceney One'* and decided that it wasn't good for 
man to live alone. So Dave took a roommate. 
Sandra Metz by name, and pitched a tent at 
2510 Central Avenue, Alameda, Calif. They sent 
Christmas gceilngs to let me know that all is well. 
Dave is still in the Navy and has about a year 
left to do. You could do it standing on your 
head partner, it's that cas>-. 
Now I've heard everything! ROY BELKNAP wins the award for the worst and most exacting military duty known to man. Tlie U.S,S. Daniel A. Joy is berthed at Randolph St. at the lake in Chicago. Roy is her supply officer. In between convoy mislsons, Roy, his wife Maureen, and their baby daughter arc living in Glcnvlcw at 2198 O'llare Drive. Anyone in tlic area be sure to drop in for a few sea stories. BILL STOUTENBURGH writes that he's out of scr\"icc and working In New York City- Write and fill me in on the particulars. BUI. 
PAUL FULLMER docs his usual good job of keeping In touch and he wrlles that he completed his six month:, active duty with the .-Vmiy on September 27. He's now woiklng for I*awrence H. Selz Organization Inc.. public relations considtant. in Chicago. LEE CREAN and his wife Mar\" send greetings from Menasha, Wis., hut I di)n't have any Idea what they're doing there. Tlie last time that Lee wrote, he was on llic Wc>t Coast with the Army. What's the latest, folks? 
BOB HOFFM.ASTER was passing throiigh Kansas City the other day and tried to reach me at the house. Unfortunately I was on the road all week. Bob, or at least we could have done some overdue visiting. I might mention here that I'd like to hear from any of you that happen lo be In and around Kansas City. The number's In the phone book so don't go through without at least saving "hello." BILL WALSH and the former Miss Joan Kennedy were married on the 28th of December In AVlnnctka, Hi. Congratulations and best wishes to them both. It was a pleasant surprise to hear from FRANK SCHILLO and to receive some much needed class news. Frank was drafted into the Army in August of *55 and spent quite a bit of the time in Germ:.ny. He was returned to the States for a short time and then discharged last August. He noiv works for Ross Laboratories who manu­facture and distribute Simllac infant formula. Okay, fathers of '55, let's show a little class loyalty and feed those babies Slmilac Even if they don*t like it, it's for the cause. According to Frank, it tastes good like a formula should. End of com­mercial and beginning of congratulations and best wishes to Mr. Schillo and Miss Marion Travcr^ of Milwaukee w-ho w-Ill be married on the 3rd of May. As a final note, Frank asks that I mention that his address is 65 East Helena St., Dayton 5, Ohio. SKIP REINER is stationed in Japan with the Army and is haWng such a good time that he wonders what the big fight was all about. AMicn last seen, JOHN ACQUILLA was playing the old Army game at Fort Meade, Mar>-Iand. TOM O'DONTs'ELL is working In Dayton for E. F. Mac-Donnell and Co. and in his spare time is a referee 
64 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
for lo<:al football and basketball games. CHUCK KLEE flashed his Na\y experience and landed a job as assistant purser with the Grace Lines. He's now on his way to South -Vmerica but probably misses the Navy more evcr>' day. xVftcr all, when one gets used to chipped beef for breakfast, it's hard to go back to bacon and eggs again. BOB HUBER, from Milwaukee, is married and has a son, Mark. Don*t mind the pun. Bob, but mark my words. I'd like to hear from you. DICK BI>/\CK is spending some lime in the Army and Is stationed in El Paso, Texas. Dick's married and has a son, Jimmy. 
BERNIE TR.-\CEY certainly did his part this time to bring mc up to date on the activities of the sea-going graduates. Bernic is aboard the U.S.S, Fcchteler (DDR-870), FPO, San Francisco, Calif,, and has been touring the Far East. During his travels he encountered many a familiar face and the news that follows will be from his letter. JOE KE:\RNEY is chief rnginccr aboard the U.S.S. Passumsic and v^'as last seen operating In 5ubic Bay. Operating aboard ship, that is. Another boy-san seen in the Nippon area was BOB NEVERIL who is alioard the U.S.S. Jupiter, a station ship at Voko­suka, Japan. For the Information of those not in the know, a station ship is practically welded to the dock. Sounds nice. The welcoming committee for the incoming ships at San Francisco is none other than CHUCK ^^NGES. Chuck was given the job to aid his ^€^covcry from the nine days spent at sea before his ship was deactivated. Feeling better. Chuck? JOE SMITH said his sobbing goodbyes to the Navy and made his way out into the cold and cruel. He's now working for Detroit Edison but rumor has it tliat he misses the Navy and might return sometime in June of 1978. BILL KREBS and FR.-\NK CONKLIN have also become civilians since the last time that I reported and I wonder If they experienced the same lecllng that I did when I was released. You get this feeling after being away from the service for about three months. It's hard to describe if you haven't been through it. It's like . . . well . . . actually It's hunger pangs! PAT Cr\NNON was also in the Long Beach area awaiting discliargc and planned to return to Cleve­land as soon as it was final. Holding an im­promptu alumni meeting in the vicinity of Pearl Harbor seems lo have been the order of the dav as 
HAL WILLENBORG, C,\RL BRrVTTON, and TOM WELLY were all discovered In church, and even on a Sunday. This may be old news by now. but the b'il mi-ssa?;e we received Indicated that 
JOHN BENDEL was scrying aboard the U,S.S. 
Purdy as CIC Officer. CHUCK COLLINS is also 
aboard a destroyer and recently made the rounds 
of Subic Bay. Jumping back to the civilians for a 
moment, FRED DANNER is still working for 
Speiry g\-roscope In Great Neck, L.I. 
One ol th- unsung heroes of this peace-time .Army , managed to tear himself away from the blackeyed peas and Iiushpuppics long enough to fill me in on his southern hijinks. As previously reported, the Army finally got BILL MULLER about eighteen months ago and sent him to Fort Jackson, S. C. for his basic. Needing someone in the combat areas, they then sent him to a civilian component assign­ment In Nashville, Tenn. Sounds pretty nice. Bill, but doesn't It get on your ncr\'es? Bill says that he was able to get home for the holidays and attended FR.ANK CUNNINGHAM'S New Years party. WALT KAVANAUGH also was able to make the parly and I understand that his bird dog kennels arc prospering. Congratulations, Walt- JACK HOBLITZELL and his wife, Sally, expect their first corvette sometime In the spring. Congratula­tions to them both. 
JACK FL\'NN is now passing the time In the ^[a^inc Corps and is stationed in Norlh Carolina He's married and has a baby girl. Sheila Marie. Our condolences tc you and your family, Jack, on the death of your father last November. You may be ass:ired thai he has our prayers. 
It was a real pleasure to hear from ED KELLY since I had lost track of him when he was re-) leased from the Navy In June. He had been stationed at Grosse He, Mich., and met and married a girl from the area. All of the details v*'crc given in one of the past columns. Upon his release from the service, he became a sales trainee for the Mineral Products Division of the Food Machlnerv- and Chem­ical Corporation. He and his wife are now living In Brighton, Mass. and Ed is working the Boston area for his company. Alas, alack! The best news last! Ed and his wife arc the pniud. and what else could they be, parents of a baby daughter born Feb. 15th. By name, Klmberly Ann. and I hope that she looks like her mother. Congratulations. Score and spouse, and I'll bet that being a father beats eating ham heroes at Jo's Pleasant Manor any day, Ed. BOB STUKAS lives In ihe next town from the Kellys and has been over lo sec them several times. Bob mentioned that GEORGE MEYERS has been undrr the weather. We all wish ynu a speedy recover^', George. Pop Kelly recpicsis 
MIAMI—^Armond Vari, head football coach at Archbishop Curlcy High School, was select­ed by the Notre Dame Club of Miami as the "Outstanding Catholic High School Coach of the Year." Past president Mike Zorovich (left) makes the presentation lo Coach Vari. 
information on JOHN WEITHERS, JACK SOR­/\NNO, ED DEMPSEY, and PHIL SHERID.\N. 
If it wcic possible to award citau'ons for corres­ponden::c above and beyond the call of duty, LARRY BREHL would be one of the many to receive such an honor. He's certainly done his part towards helping mc to write this column and it's greatly apreciatcd. Larr>' ^ras released from the Naxy on the 8th of August and is now working for Wcstinghousc in the Employee Communications Department. He and his wife. Dot, arc looking for a home in Pittsburgh but haven't decided on one as yet. Larr>- reports seeing FR^VNK FLORL\N who is also working for Wcstinghousc in Pittsburgh. BOB MOORE and his wife, Abigail, have one youngster now and another is expected soon. For­get the Pirates, Larry, and remember that just as you can be sure if it's Westinghouse, so also you can be sure if it's the Kansas City Athletics. 
I don't know who to thank for including my name on the mailing list, but I do appreciate the mail order information from Polly Pacific, Honolulu, 
T. H. I u-as astonished at the wonderful items that could be sent for at very reasonable prices. Let me give you an example. The first items that caught my eye were a natural raffia hula skirt, Hawaiian print bras, colored paper Ici, ukelcle, and instruction sheet. The only thing I couldn't figure out u-as what article you needed the in­structions for. Another interesting item: the gleaming wooden bowls of Monkey Pod wood, in popular pineapple shape. The description said that cither hot or cold monkey could be scrv'cd in these bowls. I didn*t mean to digress, men, but I did think that this subject was worthy of note, 
FRED ECK.\RT sent greetings wafting in on the balmy breezes from Pearl Harbor. It seems that his days on the U.S.S. Bennington arc gone for good and he's now in communications work for CinC Pac Fit. CinC Pac Fit what a wonderful language that Hawaiian. It just flou-s. Fred hopes to make LTJG in April and BVD, XRA, and WPA In early June. It seems that ART SUL­LJV.\X has been spending some time in Japan, namely the Erlmo-zaki .-Mr Station on the Island of Hokkaido. I thought that Erimo-zakI was some­thing to drink. Art is the commander of an Air­craft Control and Warning Base and enjo>-s his work so much that he mentions that he's to be released from ser\-ice In the very near future. It's with heavy heart that he'll leave all of his friends on Hokkaido. JERRY HILLSM.VX and his wife were on Okinawa but he's been released from ser%'ice and I'm sure that they didn't waste any time getting home. DICK GLENXOX has also been spending some time in Japan with the Air Force but no details are known on his present duty station. CHRIS TAISEX was also in Japan but has since returned to the states for separation. BUCKY J.AXSSEX is working in the Marketing Dept, for Ifamms Brewery- in Milwaukee. 
I saved one letter until last to point up that you're never too busy or too far away to forward class news. I received a ver%- interesting and cnjov­able letter from P.\UL HAUHXAR, P.O. Champ­hai, MIZO DIST., /\ssam-IXT)IA. Paul mentions his da>'5 in Alumni Hall and how much he misses the things that this countr>* meant to him. X'atur­ally he was happy to return home after graduation since it had been three years since he had seen his family. He has four children: Peter, 8, Augustine, 5I4i Julia. 2, and Patrick 1 month. In closing his letter. Paul requests the addresses of W.ALLY GUG­LIELMO, TONf ARMSTROXG, BOB .MOORE, and BILL CLUSSERATH. Why not drop him a line, men, I'm sum that he'd like to hear from you. 
Before closing, I would like to comment on some­thing that I consider very important and worth while. We all know the wonderful work that the Holy Cross Fathers arc doing in their foreign mis­sions and we should all be aware of their need for funds to finance this work. Tlicre is now a way to help this cause and at the same time pro­vide pcrjetual remembrance for deceased family and friends. Tlie deceased person of your choice will receive Purgatorial Membership in the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Society. Tlie family of the deceased will receive a beautiful framed certificate of membership. Donor's name is included. Once enrolled, the deceased person will have a dally remembrance in over 800 masses. Every Sunday he will share in a High Mass ofTered at Foreign Mis­sion Seminary* in Washington. Finally, the deceased person will be remembered yearly In four annual novenas. Offering is $5 for each person enrolled. 
All membership offerings help Holy Cross mission­ers overseas and provide the training and equipment for future missioners educated at the Foreign Mis­sion Semlnar>' In Washington. Mail offering with necessary' names and mailing instructions to: Holy Cross Purgatorial Society, Holy Cross Missions, Washington 17, D. G. If any further Information is needed, you may write to this same address. 
From the .-Mumni Office: 
A recent picture in the Fort Wayne News Sentinel showed JOE Ci\S/VSfVX'TA reading to his six mop­pets, Susie, Kathy, Pattic, Danny, Johnny and Chris while wife X'aomi volunteered for the Mother's March on Polio. Having trained In X^ew York, Joe is now settling back in South Bend as assistant manager of the local Metropolitan Life ofiice. 
JOSEPH D. CROWLEY is now a master of arts from Ohio State. 
The 1958 Centenary of OUR LADY OF LOURDES 
GROTTO: Throughout the Lourdes Centenary Year every visit to the Grotto merits these indulgences ac­corded by the Holy See: 
1.
 A Plenary Indulgence is grant­ed for each visit made by a group (5 or 6) of the faithful who have duly confessed their sins and re­ceived Communion, and who pray for the intention of the Holy Father {PATER, AVE, GLORIA). A single family could be considered a group. 

2.
 A Partial Indulgence of seven years is granted to any individual who visits the Grotto with suitable dispositions of mind and heart (PATER. AVE, GLORIA). 


CONFRATERNITY: Other Indul­gences can be gained throughout your lifetime by membership in the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception of Our Lady of Lourdes at Notre Dame. Benefits include Lourdes water, intentions in Mass every Saturday on the campus, and a Plenary Indulgence under the or­dinary conditions (Confession, Com­munion, etc.) on the day of admis­sion, at the hour of death, and each year on several feasts of the Blessed Virgin plus, by recent Vatican deci­sion, the Feast of St. Bemadette, Feb. 18. 
To obtain LOURDES WATER 
from the Shrine in France, 
write to: 
LOURDES 
Notre Dame 5. Indiana 
REV. BRIAN EG.4N, O.S.B., has been appointed president of St. Bernard College, Ala. MICHAEL J. ELLIS has another year to go at the South Dakota School of Mines. PATRICK C. HALEY is on a core boat for Humble Oil, Los Angeles, Calif. 
JOHN B. O'SULLIVAN plans to leave Iowa State U. in June for geological field work In Point Barro\\% Alaska. 
THO.\L\S L. PRENDERG.AST, JR., received an 
M.S. in December from the Untversit>- of Minnesota. ARTHUR E. JOHNSON is studying at the jVmerican Institute for Foreign Trade, PhocnLx, Ariz. RALPH E. AVEBER has been named registrar and director of admissions at Marquette University. 
ROBERT E. WHIPPO, working for his M.S. at South Dakota School of Mines, Is instructing in the optical mineralogy lab. 
That should take care of the column for this time. Thanks for your help and remember, if you haven't written yet, it's never too late. If you have wTittcn in the past, don't ruin your record. Let's hear from you again. Don't keep the faith, spread it! I'll see you on Old Shell Road. 
• '^^ 5697 North Lincoln Avenue Chicago 45, TUinois 
Had the opportunity to attend the biennial Class Secretaries* Conference last January 17-18. which was held in the "Morris Inn.'' It was a pleasure meeting all the ''scribes" and discussing the \'arious problems of the column. Since the purpose of this column is to pass news to the Class of '56, and today Is the deadline, here goes: 
From Oceanside, Calif., Barbara and JOHN BRODERICK have announced the arri\-al of Patrick Joseph on Jan. 14. 1958. The 7 lb. 2 oz. chip is rumored to be already smoking cigars. Congratula­tions to Barb and Skinny. 
JIM SHUMAKER presently lining in the Extern Quarters of tht Indianapolis General Hospital while studying medicine at Indiana U. asks that anyone passing through "Nap" town, be sure to look him up. 
Ne%v5 from JERRY HIGGINS and bride, ^far­garct. Just missed the last issue, but reported they took time out to see the "Irish" check Oklahoma while being stationed at (Hq- Btr>-. 597th AFA Bn., Fort SiW, Okla.). Tlieir next door neighbors in Lawton are Gerry and JIM WALL.-\CE from Detroit. Gerry heard from JD I GWINNER and JOHN KELLY under orders with the Air Force stationed at Maiden .-Mr Base In ^fIs5ou^i. DICK CiVRROLL and wife arc living In SufHeld. Conn, while Richard works for Kaman Aircraft. P.-VUL LrV POINTE h ^\•orking for Hamilton Standard— ne.\t town from Dick. TIM DRISCOLL and his new wife. Norma Lee, Wsitcd the two while on their honeymoon. The Wallace's heard wcjrd of JIM ZiXJESKI's marriage while stationed in Puerto Rico, to a former SMC Scnorita and that BOB KESTELOOT was somewhere at sea with the Xa\y between Calif, and Japan. 
Typewritten words no less, arrived from Senator BOB O'MALLEY, Box 185, 710 N. Lake Shore Drive, Chicago . . . ^v•ho along ^vith JACK CxVSEY is studving law at Northwestern. Bob informs the column that GEORGE BL^\KE and BOB RUHL are playing military games at Fort Chaffee, Ark. PHIL BRiXDTKE has been making periodic ^-isits to their Abbott Hall residence during his free time with Belli & Belli, the Chicago architectural firm. JACK FIEHRER in the Army somewhere In Ger­many. . . . PHIL BOHNERT and DICK LEWTS are also living in Abbott Hall while in Northwestern U's Med. school. . . . Thanks for the letter. Bob. 
LT. BOB WELSH (Btry. C, 46th A.-\A Bn. Ft. Lewis, Wash.), thanks for the card. Bob. your world traveling jVlumn! Hall partner Is now in the hands of .. . . The Jesuits at Loyola U. studying latin in preparation for the Xfar^'knoll Foreign Mis­sions. . . . Yes, LT. MICHAEL CLUNE MOONEY is no longer running from Russian tanks in Hun­gary, but sincerely devoting his time in prepara­tion for the Priesthood. Mike entered last Sept. after scri'Ing his six months at Ft. Sam Houston . . . had a 7-UP with him last week near his (6551 Shendan Rd. c/o Loyola Hall) address. .. . P. E^vlft in Dallas, N. B. . . . 
A big hello came from WILLIE KEARNEY (250th General Hospital, Brooke Army Medical Center, Ft. Sam Houston, Texas). Bill's only com­plaint of the Army was that there was nothing to do at his ''Country Club" while in charge of the classification and assignment section of the per-

Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 65 
sonnci office of the 230th. . . . Bill, during his C. C. 
travels, has seen MIKE REGJVN stationed at 
Ellington Air Force base. MOOSE PATES is 
stationed at Ft. Hood, Texas and was seen in 
Chicai;o by the column not too long ago. TOMMY 
RUSSELL is stationed at some Air Force Base deep 
in the heart of Texas. CHARLIE * USHER was 
shipped to Germany after spending lus second eight 
in the panhandle. 
BOB DOWD (7028 Osbom Ave., Hammond, Ind.) 
has recently been appointed Traffic Manager in the 
Traffic Division of the Purdiasing Dcpt. at the 
Ko. Indiana Public Scr\'icc Co. in Hammond; 
recently wrote that MIKE MURPHY was attending 
Cornell U. Hotel ^fgt. school and ts now stationed 
in Germany. 
Many thanks to BRL\>' WALSH for his letter 
while he was home for the holidays, on leave as 
an instructor for the signal corp. Engineering 
Laboratories at Ft. Monmouth, X. J. Brian an­
nounced liis ^^-day to Rita Schnecberger, which 
took place in the Log Chapel last December. Fr. 
Schlitzer, C.S.C., witnessed. . . . 
Happv to have read of the progress of many of 
his fomier students, NLAJOR J. S. CHIMENTO of 
1619 Dove Drive, Orlando, Florida, wrote of his 
present assignment as officer-in-chargc of the B-47 
Flight Simulator group in SAC since Oct. '56. As 
part of the Grad scliool class of *56 and Prof, 
of the AF ROTC detachment from 1952-1956, the 
Major expressed his wish to have his address and 
phone number (Garden 3-7307) passed along in the 
hope that his buddies would call on him and his 
family. 
The postman brings word that Ens. DOX 
WAL2 and Ins wife, Evel>Ti. are now living in 
San Diego, where Don is Supply Officer aboard 
the Destroyer U.S.S. Laws. 
To JOHN R/\UB (Mt. St. ^far^•'s Seminary*. 
Xonvood 12, Ohio) the Class of '56 extends best 
wishes lor continued success as you prepare for the 
greatest call of all. 
From JOHN MAXIOX: 
"Tl.e Manions (John and Mao* Ann) will be expecting on or about October 23 in their Mil­waukee, Wiconsin home. Same word comes from the XICK RAICH family u-ilh the number two offsnring on the way. GEXE GORDOX has finished his six months military trainmg and is back in the Rock River Valley (Sterling) working \\-ith the WUctt Engineering Company. BILL STOTZER is about ready to get out of the Xa\y after two years with his commission; but it seems that he's bci-n pla^^ng so much great basketball and enjoying his life on the U.S.S. Forestal that he may not want to give up his present life. LARRY WAHL was still at Treasure Island. Calif., waiting for his 24 month hitch to end. H.\P MEYER recently sent in his dues for the alumni club in Milwaukee, so it's figured he's still in the brewery capital. Letters from DOX LOGAR infoms tliat he's riding carriers from Hawaii to Japan once a month and flying back to the Islands to await the next carrier. Don ran into tliree G.I.'s in Hawaii who called themselves ART XAKAMARU, ERXIE MURATA, and HARRY HIGA, tvho are fulfilling their Array obligations. PAUL X'OLAXD gave with the news that he's giWng us his bachelorhood in June to marT>-a gal from Oak Park; they are planning to live in Ha^^-aii after tlic marriage %vhile Paul finishes his hitch. JIM FITZGERALD is still under the care of John INfanion's grandmother in Frecport, 
III. while he works for Micro-Switdi; Jim rooms with Mrs. Manon during the week and commutes to Chicago for his week ends." 
You will probably hear from Tlie Reverend THOMAS M. FITZPATRICK, C.S.C., Director of tlic Holy Cross Foreign Mission Society, who sug­gests a certificate ol enrollment in the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Purgatorial Society- as an excellent memorial for the families of deceased classmates, friends and relatives. At the same time you will be gi\ing the verv- much needed help to the foreign mission work of Hoiy Cross. If you want to write Father Fitzpatrick directly, you can address him at the Holy Cross Missions, Washington 17, D. C, Your consideration of his appeal w^ll be greatly appreciated. 
Many thanks to Mrs. L. E. KiUian, 214 W. Di\T5ion, Bloomingtcn, HI., for the note about her son DOX KILLIAX aboard the U.S.S. Rowan. Don expects to return to the States sometime tliis April, Thanks, Mrs. Killian. 
The Class of 1956 is asked to remember in their prayers the father of AXDY and TEDDY LUM, Mr. Andre%v T. Lum of 4264 Sierra Drive, Honolulu 16, Hawaii passed away last December 19 
66 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1958 
Letter from ROBERT MILLER, (EXS, CEC. USX, MCB Xo. 6 c/o FPO, X. Y., X. Y.) reports that 2nd LT. KEX WIXKLER is linng at Ft. Leonard Wood, Missouri and while In the Corps of Engineers broke his leg plaj-ing football for the post, but is O.K. now. .. . 2nd LT. DICK MERKELf USMC, is now sweating out a fourteen month tour on Okinawa. EXS. JOE SCHIFFGEXS, CEC, USX, is holding down a ci\*il engineer corps, billet as assistant resident officer in cliargc of con­struction at X^a^'al AJr Station, Sanford, Fla. . . . EXS. JOHX JUERLIXG is doing the same thing in Panama City, Fla. . . . JIM MASOX is \vorking and living in Milwaukee, AVisconsin, where Mrs. Mason is expecting their second. As for Bob, who is stationed with the **Seabees," and has just com­pleted a six months tour in Cuba and firing in Puerto Rico, is no\\' engaged to Margie Hoefer, a Senior at St. Mary's. 
Lt. (j.g.) DOX FIAUSH, USX, 1001 Ridgecrcst 
Drive, Clarksnlle, Tenn., has just scrx'ed 18 months 
on the attack aircraft carrier, U.S.S. Essex, and 
has visited such far off lands as Japan, Hong Kong', 
Philippines, South America, England and Scotland. 
Don and his wife, Judy, arc now parents of a 
daughter, Terry Lynn, born last X'ovember 25, 
1957. Don has recently heard from JIM HIGGIXS, 
JI.M BRUXGARDT and JIM KRAE.MER, who are 
all finishing up their term with Uncle Sam. Let's 
keep Iiearing from you, Don. 
Through the graperine comes the following: 
President AHLLIAM WARREX is now a daddy. 
. . . JIM QUETCH, studj-ing law at Chicago—Kent, 
is now expecting a second. 
Before signing ofl*, word came from the Alumni 
office that the duties of the ^fanaging Editor, 
JOHX CACKLEY, have been terminated so as to 
assist Father Cavanaugh on the Foundation's multi-
million dollar program. Our new editor Is JOHX 
LxVUGHLIX' who brings you this issue. 
From the Alumni Office: 
JACK GUEGUEX got an ^LA. at X'otrc Dame's Center for Sorict.and East European Studies, is on the editorial staff of Soul Magazine, national pub­lication of the Blue Army of Our Lady of Fatima, an international crusade for peace through prayer and penance as requested by the Blessed Virgin at Fatima in 1917. Jack strongly recommends the Blue Army to all members of the Xotrc Dame familv. Address: Ave Maria Institute, Washington, 
X. J. 
JOHX J. DROEGE still has three years of duty 
with S.^C; ROBERT J. HURD Is in AVashington 
u-ith the army, and JAMES E. MILAS has been in 
Camp Lejeune, X. C , may be bound for the West 
Coast. 
BOB MORSCHES, Ensign, USXR, newly married and out of ad\-anced intelligence school, has shipped off with his bride to Port Leyautcy, French Sfor­rocco for the remainder of his tour of dut)', about two years. Bob and his family spent the Army game week end last fall with Ensign and Mrs. JIM McPARTLIX. 
PETER J. STURTEVAXT lias been elected rc­searcli editor of the Xew York University I*aw Rericw. 
BEXJAMIX F. TAYLOR has been promoted to First Lieutenant at Aberdeen Proving Ground, Md. EDWARD F. VIZARD has an ^LA. degree from the University of Minnesota. 
Charles P. \\^nianison 
1957 
P. O. Box 605 Mt. Vernon, Illinois 
Tlianks for the many letters and cards that have been coming in since the pre\*ious issues of tlie ALUMXUS have hit the mail boxes back home, and have been for^\'arded to our illustrious **alums" all over the nation. It seems a few of the *'troops" are traveling incognito and w*on't let us in on their derious destinations and dastardly misdeeds— but all told, tlic class of '57 has given light to the whereabouts of many of its members. Here are a few words on our erstwhile grads. 
PAT SWEEXEY sent yours truly a copy of the .Aeronautical Engineering ne%vslettcr that is being published by the grads of said department. It makes quite a formidable piece of copy—three type­written pages, all single spaced. XaturaHy, only the highlights will appear here. 
Xumber one man of the Aero class, JOHN DAI­BER (we're number one?) is now working at Cornell on an MS in Aero Eng. John brings word that he is accompanied by LEON RING, JERRY BRAINARD, and JOHN CASSIDY at Cornell—and tliat CHRIS COGAN was married at San Diego and is working there. 
DICK KOLODZIEJ was in flight at Pensacola W'ith the USX. It seems that the swabbies found he had a bad ear—so Dick has been reassigned to the 
U.S.S. St. Paul, CA-73. As of last word, TOM McMURTRY, PAUL O'COXTs'ER and TOM BETTERTOX arc all playing junior birdmen at Pensacola. BILL ALLEX, M.\TT WEY and JOHX RE^VRDON declined the required year and a half extension of Xav>* flyers. 
JOHX THOMAS, JIM FLUHR, and BOB 
KELLY were due to start flying at the end of '57 
at San Antonio, but no word since then. 
STE\'E JEXDRAS is married and working for 
McDonnell in St. Louis. BILL KUCERA, Steve's 
junior roommate is at Oak Ridge—and is married. 
Bill Meyers started work at McDonnell in late Sept. 
ROX ^VTIT scored—how would you like to be 
operations officer on a mine sweeper? 
BOB LOXCHARICK, LEO BOLUVR, and DOX 
RIGALI share a little grass shack on the sands of 
the X'ew Mexico desert—Albuquerque—(with all 
apologies to any of th- residents of said town for 
the spelling). It seems this happy group is doing 
tests for Sandia on (and I quote) "Atomic Blah." 
JOHX SULLI\''/\X is giving his multitudinous, 
shining talents to Princeton grad school in .Aero 
%vork. 
ROY DeBELLIS and Diane DcBcUis plus one 
ver>' cute daughter, by the looks of their Christmas 
card picture, arc enjoying the sun in Southern 
Calif. Uncle Sam has use for Second Lts. in the 
Air Force. 
PAT SWEEXEY is giving the benefit of his 
sagacity and height to Xorth American Aviation 
at last word. He w"»s one of the few people in 
our cla^s besides JOHX PALU.MBO and JOHX 
THOMAS who was short enough so that I could 
look him in the eye. The Air Force should get 
him in the merr>- month of May—but when will 
Kay Tucker?—to his friends that Is a good ques­
tion. 
As has been said in the last Issue of the 
ALUMNUS AL REICKERT tied the golden knot ­
but at the Log Chapel no less. Al and ^fa^il^'n 
arc at Greenrillc, Miss, with the USAF. 
JIM KIWUS met his match and at latest word 
they arc living In Calif, where Jim is employed 
by Convalr. 

AL JO^\^D graduated from X.D. at half time— and it was a long grind. DA\ ^ XOON last heard from at the Patent office in Washington, D. C. BILL THOMPSOX Is a technical writer for Sperr>- Gyroscope. 
PAUL JOHNS and ED BURXS arc at present plotting against Babcock and Wilcox. Swecn sa>-s Tom Mariani is driring an ice cream truck—but he should have returned to school by now. 
JIM KURTH sent a note and an Inritation to all his old crew to visit him at Lauderdale. Jim and his wife of last June arc enjo>-ing the sunny soujh, where he is coaching football at Central Catholic High School. In the truest traditions of his Alma Mater's recent example, Jim had a good win-loss record. 
Wiilc rummaging through old notes and papers, out of the debris came a newspaper article given to me by DICK SWIFT. It had been sent to him bv his mother, and gave a little lowdown on the work being done by one TOM KRISTOPEIT. Tom is working up a master plan for the expansion of the Davenport, Iowa metropolitan area. Tom's study is to be completed In June. 
A few other items of interest on Davenport people—DICK SWFT, Second Lt., USMC, is at the writing of this letter noddling his way toward Florida on leave. After that he will join BOB HA\TRKAMP and yours truly at Camp Lejeune where the three of us will be Communications officers. Xow what could be more logical than to make us Communications Officers—when wc are all So familiar with radio and electronics. Bob has his BA in English—^Dick his B.S. in Finance and me a general science major. C'cst la vie. Yours Is ""i not to reason. 
DENNY BRITT of Davenport is at X.D. Law ­more on thit later. JACK REISTROFFER Is at IBM in Chi town—and BUZZ WURZER is still lending his talents to the Chicago Tribune, and more recently to Mrs. Wunicr. 
In my possession still is some ancient net^s that may interest some and be amusing to others. Ensign BUD FRIEDHEIM had the Junior Officer of the Deck Watcli on his ship at sea late last summer. While on duty there w:iS a collision with another ship. Officer of the Deck of said other ship was an X.D. grad of three years ago. You can never tell where we'll meet those of the X'otrc Dame family—bul to collide in the middle of the ocean— Pacific Ocean—is too much. N.D. scores again. 
MIKE BOYLE should be returning at the writing of this from a Far East cruise aboard the U.S.S. Lewis. Mike's home port is San Francisco. 
General Motors seems to have grabbed a feu* of the N.D. men of '57—JACK COOK, JIM WOL­TERS and BOB BOGG all look as though they're heading the way of the Charles Wilsons. 
JERRY TANION and BOB JASON decided to go to the Na\">' for a few years via the OC pro­gram. As did TERRY CROWLEY some months 

> ago. He sent me a note on the back of his Thanksgiving dinner menu. 
DICK STREIT was at International Harvester in Milwaukee from the latest word that had been received. 
I've got to assume BURKE CUENY is with Security Sash and Screen in Detroit. His letter bears their heading and a lot of nc%«. Thanks very much. 
If any of the Class could have seen CHUCK 

h GRACE in South Bend several montlis ago they would have dropped. Forty pounds off the old frame made him look like a new man. Chuck plus the future Mrs. Grace were really enjoying life after he had finished his six months with the Army. To be a civilian again!! 
The occasion of my seeing Chuck was the trip I'd made to Notre Dame for the Class Secretaries Conference in Janu3r>*, The Law students were in the process of exams and they had a few get to­
- gethers. JOHN SLEVIN and his wife Mary, Mr. and Mrs. BOB BERSHINSKI, JACK MOYNAHAN, DENNY BRITT and many others were celebrating after knocking ofT some of the Law exams. 
JOE REICH sounds as though his Navy life is loo much. Hi;, letter dropped names such as Cannes, Rome. Valencia, Naples, Athens, etc.—it can make us USMC ground-pounders wonder a bit. 
Then there is the story of Cogan's crutch. JACK COGA N was on one of our rugged (?) night patrols  at Quantico. And as he was snooping and popping through the boondocks he stepped on a dummy mine and sprained his ankle. But Jack is on Okinawa now, and his worries arc over—he found a home in the Corps. 
JIM WEBER is playing Stcix- Wilson for the Canton Repository. 
CHUCK KOEHLER of Canton was married to Jane Moulin last August, and is working for Re­public StffI while attending grad school at the Univ. of Akron at night. His cx-roommale, DICK SHAGER, is going to grad school at Ohio State  and is now engaged, planning to be married this .summer. 
DON P.ARVIS is in the Air Force—but where? 

BRIAN P. McMAHON is working in New York in public lelations—thinks the US.AF will wait awhile. He*r, and again we quote, "a Vice Presi­dent of sorts." 
Small world—PAT CONWAY un his huneymuon had, as (he man across the hall in hotel, nonc­other-than JAMES KENNEY of Jolict, III. ,\[r>. Conway is teacliing in Palo Alto, California, while Pat is at Stanford grad school in business. Pat iccomniends marriage to all baclielors—quote 'it* irp-men-gelous." 
JIM KENNEY of Rochester, Minn, is in St. Louis ^[ed. School. BOB ST. CLAIR is working for Minn. Mining and Manufacturing selling outdoor advertising in Minn., Iowa, and the Dakoias. DICK GALLE was married Nov. 2.1 to Del Cutler in Hackcnsack, New Jersey. TOM O'BRYAN is so laz>' that his sister Joan wrote mc a note and gave mc the news of his old crowd. JOHN MCDONNELL is at Loyola Law— and this is news—studying up a storm. John missed being rep of the freshmen class to the Bar .Association by one vote—bis own. Tom is also at Loyola, but no stoims Iiave been heard yet. DAX'E MURPHY is working for his Dad in J LaCrosie, Wis. DON BULLEIT Is in Law School ai Memphis. FRANK HALL is back in Jamaica coaching track, and working for a travel agenc>-. Frank plans to return fot' Med. school in this country in the not-loo-distant future. And don't ask bow-but JIM O'SULLIVAN \vas stationed at Ft. Sheridan-must be the luck of the Irish. BOB CALABRESE was last heard from working in Chicago—he blew that big nose of his and was charged with disturbing the peace. TOM JACOBS and wife Char are in Texas City. Texas. Tom is now a proud Papa of Kathleen Mary and is employed by Union Carbide. Also in Texas City arc Pat and DON McCRORV. 
DON DOHERT\' of Rockford was also the proud papa of a Kathleen Mary last fall. Don is employed by IBM and is living in Rockford with bis wife. A note from Don's parents say the Irish lass is a bit of a doll. 
LT. RALPH SCHULLER of Eilensburg, Wash., is now stationed at Ft. Eustis, Va. Ralph is assigned to U. S. Army Transportation, Research and Engineering Command. 
JACK SOUCY dropped a note these past few days and gave me the lowdown on St. Louis Med. Things are tough, but the crew consisting of Jack, BILL HUMMELL, MARSH CATANZARO, JIM KENNEDY, KEN RASHID, and ART SALA­DIN all made it through first semester exams. 
MATT WEIS and GUS LEUPKE arc enjoying St. Louis Law School. 
BOB GRIFFIN is now stationed at Great Lakes, as is JACK CROWLEY. BILL GROGAN and his wife must be having a nice life in Jacksonville— these Nav>- people arc living. Also the USN has .MARK MALEY In the Nfedilerranean and he won't be ht-nie until July. 
RICH KRIEGHAUSER has spent sLx months with the USAF and is now back home and engaged. 
RAV LESCHER is in Law School at 111. 

DICK EGAN, PAUL SCHIERL, JACK Mc-a\BE and TOM GUILFOILE all left the Army in December after six months. 
Word has It that TOM O'BRIEN from Green Bay is in the seminary, but it is not known where. 
NICK GR/\SBERGER is in Milu-aukec with M\\s Chalmers. While CARROLL DOYLE Is burning up Columbia Law School—knowing Car­roll, one might take that literally. 
JOE NEUHOFF is learning the meat packing business in Texas "from the bottom up." He is employed at Neuhoff Bros, in Dallas. 
ROBERT KILEY is now a traveling vice presi­dent for NSA and is covering the nation giving great pep talks. This Is a surprise for some who thought he was at Harvard Law. Bob seems very happy in the present post, and headquarters out of Philadelphia. 
CARROLL DOYLE and Barbara Wood of Barat College in Chicago have just recently announced their engagement. 
BOB PLEUS' father passed away recently, and the prayers of the class are requested for the repose of his soul. 
While visiting back at Notre Dame this fall, I quite bv accident ran into two ex-classmates of ours—HERB RIBAND and MIKE CATANZARO. 
. Herb left us at the end of Sophomore year for the Franciscans, and Mike at the end of Junior year for C.S.C. They're now going to finish up at the old home school. While on Christmas leave. R.\Y DcSUTTER'S father, R. A. DeSutter, senior, and I took a trip down to Getlisemani, Ky., to sec Ray. We got there and met JLM QUINN and DON SCHRANDT both of Loyola Med. and N.D. '57. We had a little get together for several days but had no luck in visiting Ray. Wc were able to physically see him—who could miss that red head even with the clerical tonsure. Ray has as a novice master Thomas Merton, which is certainly wonderful. His Dad showed me some of his letters and they are certainly as humorous as could be. If you'll bear with mo a moment I'll relate an incident which he wrote i:i one of his letters. Ray (FR. MARY ROBERT) was requested to do the spiritual reading during the evening meal one day, as is the Trappist custom. As the signal to stop, the Abbott is to tap his glass and the reading ceases. Well, it seems Ray didn't bear the cue In the noise of clanging dishes in the dining room. He read . . . and read .... Finally he heard a few snickers from his fellow monks and realized what happened. Ray got red in the face about this time and stepped off the platform, and as he stepped he kicked over a small dinner bell. The dinner bell bounced down several steps then rolled around In circles singing its merry song as only n bell could do. If anyone wishes to write Ray—bis address is: Father Mar>- Robert, Our Lady of Getlisemani, Trappist, Kentucky. He will not be able to answer—but would appreciate a note, I'm sure. Fellow alums—about time to close. Hope all Is well with everyone. And drop a note!! It is a well known fact (at least we like to think so) that N.D. men brag a great deal about 
N.D. but seldom about themselves. Consequently, any parents o.- wives whose sons or spouses arc stilt hiding from the Inquiring eye of the ALUAf­NUS—please give us any information you may have plus any qutps or comments you may have about any N.D. *57s. Bye for now—Write. . . . 
From the Alumni Office: GARLAND R. DEVER, JR., has his permanent duty station in Port Tysntcy, French Morrocco, 
DONALD J. FLINN is in the South DakoU School of Mines working for an M.S. in geological engineering. 
Second LT. THOMAS A. EG.AN b assigned to the Specialist Training Regiment at Fort Dix; Second LT. £D\VARD M. HEALY received orders for Korea, Jan. 27, and Air Force Second LT. MICHAEL V. McINTIRE is assbtant installation engineer with Headquarters Chicago Air Defense Sector, Truax Field, Wis. 
RICHARD L. MEINERT is geologist-in-charge at the Ft. Morgan field office of British American Oil Co. out of Denver. 
ALFRED J. RUTKOWSKI has joined Esso Research and Engineering Co. 
THOMAS F. SCHROEDER Is on a graduate assistantship necking an M.S. from Washington University, St. Louis. JOHN F. TRACKALVN h working for his master's at the University of Colorado. 
LAWRENCE J. WHALEN Is with the 3M Ccmpany In the Twin Cities. 
JOHN F. WINDOLPH, a papa as of last Oct­ober, is with U.S.G.S. preparing fossils at the Smithsonian Institute. 
EDWARD N. ZILLIKEN Is working for an M.S. at St. Louis University. 
Paul Kraus (Law Secretary) 1730 W. Bancroft St. 
Toledo 6, Ohio 

.A pleasant Sunday afternoon spent with JIM BOOTH and Martha Jacob recently caught me up on a great deal of ne%vs. In the headlines was TOM BEELER'S release from active duty and a week spent vacationing in Cuba. He's currently looking around for a legal position somewhere in Indiana. DOC BLUME b still practicing in Fort Wayne. PHIL BROWN has opened hb own office In St. Joseph, Michigan, after a somewhat fruitless search for other employment. 
TOM MEGARGLE b engaged to be married to a girl from St. Mary-of-thc-^Voods College in Terre Haute. TOM CALDER has taken a job with a law firm In Cincinnati. LARRY KANE b practic­ing In hb father's office and b very active in local civic affairs. Sounds as though he's making quite a name for himself. Larry's old marine pal, DAVE B.ARNES, took the big step and was married. Congratulations. Chip! 
R. HOLLERAN MIHLBAUGH b living in South Bend and is the law clerk for Judge Grant of Indiana's northern Federal dbtrict. No doubt in this u'ay Bob can keep a close tab on the Chief! BOB GORMAN b planning to take a job with a law firm in Washington, and hb mfe. Gen, b expecting a baby soon. Here's something which could only happen to an Irbhman like .MIKE HEGARTY. While hb appeal of the results of hb Michigan bar exam were pending, the Supreme Court of Michigan resolved the issue In the question he was contesting by using hb reasoning rather than that of the bar examiner. On the strength of that, he is a member of the legal Bar of Michigan. ZEKE ZANARDI xnM be leaving the scr\-ice soon and b contemplating going back to scliool. Really, Zekc? 
Yours truly has been separated from active duty and I plan to practice at home in Toledo. It was with a great deal of pleasure that I bid fond adieu to the rainy confines of Ft. Knox. Let me hear from you. 
Arthur L. Roulc, Jr. 1958 1717 Indiana Ave. LaPorte, Indiana 
(Ed. Note: Presendng ART ROULE, king-she secretary of a king-size class; witness abo President DON McNEILL. Art wK—pardon the pun—filter all the news of 1958, and since he may not hear from mnrt of the class until well after commence­ment, he'll welcome all the help he can get from you February grads. J. L.) 
JOHN ANTHONY GINDUNG, Bonham, Texas, has enrolkd as a member of the January, 1959 class of the American Institute for Foragn Trade, Phoenix, Arizona. 
GIndling received hb degree In February. He is a veteran of the U. S. Anny. ­
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 2958 67 
P:^: •• 
f-^Mias Iwarie K. Lawrence, ' Box 25., Notre Dame, Ind. 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Fellow Alumni: Evansville, Indiana, May 10, 1958 
Thinking big can be a mistake, if it seeks to avoid or to ignore the parts that must make any bigness. 
When I first looked at the formidable figure of $66,600,000 sought by Notre Dame in the next decade, I said to myself, "Our Alma Mater is thinking big." And I almost added, because our traditions and our history and our ambitions are modest, "too big." 
But as I read the brochure which John Cackley so ably edited, and saw how the infinite patience for taking pains had blossomed for a hundred years before its genius was apparent, I changed my attitude. 
The new program has been growing in department after department from their origin. Bigness, where it exists, has won its victorj' over the status quo by merit- alone. 
The first endowment campaign was before my student days, but I have heard much about it. The University reluctantly sought a million dollars for endowment for lay faculty salaries, and a million dollars for buildings — to meet the rapid upsurge of the years after World \Var I. 
This was thinking big at the time — and proved utterly inadequate in the years that followed. 
In 1947, when post-war. conditions were repeating themselves on a much lai^er scale, smothering the University as it tried to fulfill its basic obligations. Father John Cavanaugh permitted the President of the Alumni Association, Harry G. Hogan, to laimch a financial program to meet the phj-sical needs of the hour, whicl'. was established by the University as a separate program, the Notre Dame Foundation. 
More important than money, the Foundation was set up to tell the real story of Notre Dame to all its alumni and to a purposely multiplied family of friends. Its $25,000,000 goal again seemed big. Again it was achieved. And again it is already inadequate in the analysis of immediate opportunities and obligations. 
So we come to a new 10-year program, which again looms large. 
But as we consider its parts, we realize several things that are new at Notre Dame, things which the Foundation has done in its first decade. 
First, Notre Dame has many real and demonstrated families—'• the alumni have long since proved their loyalty and generosity. In addition, we have acquired a splendid spirit among the parents of students. We have attracted a growdng number of benefactions from individual philanthropists. The large foundations have included us in their grants. Industry has multiplied our research appropriations. And most importantly and recently, corporate gifts have begun to help us solve our problems substantially. 
Secondly, the problems of Notre Dame are not only similar enough to those of all private higher education to be familiar, but all our family has learned to take an active and enlightened interest in the University's programs. 
Faculty development, non-teaching staff security,, student aid, research grants, and physical plant expansion are no longer just expressions. We know now what; diey are and why they are. 
That is why our hew program-will succeed. It is not just a 10-year arbitrary time span for raising an arijitrary. big sum of money, $66,600,000. 
It is a carefully thought out, detailed, logical outline of the parts still needed in the immediate years ahead to allow Notre Dame to consolidate the progress.it has already made, and to insure for its students and its other famiUes the development as a great American Catholic university which tlieir faith dictates. 
I know alumni will increase their efforts accordingly. . sincerelv 
Francis L. "Mike" Layden President 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 





