The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
0-
••tKiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiMMiittiiimiiittiiiUtillMiiiiiiiMllttMitip 
When You Come to See the Games in CHICAGO 
Enjoy Your Stay to the Utmost—at the 

MORRISON HOTEL 
Madison and Clark Streets 
Tallest Hotel in the World—Jf6 Stories High 
"Mf 0 doubt you are already making plans for November 9, 16, and 23. These 
-^^ games will be played in Chicago—against Drake, Southern California, and 
Northwestern. 

All "Downtown" at Your Door 
To make the most of your trip, stop at the Momson Hotel. No other leading hotel in the city gives such quick and convenient access to the majority of the downtown theatres, stores, and railroad terminals. 

Rooms, $2.50 up, Each With Bath 
The strategic location has so enhanced the revenues from subrentals that they pay all the gi-ound rent, and the saving is passed on to the guests. Rooms are rented at a fraction of the rate charged at other leading hotels for similar rooms. Every room is outside, with bath, circulating ice-water, bed-head reading lamp, telephone and Servidor. Every floor has its own housekeeper, and garage accommodation is abundant. 
The Terrace Garden and ' Boston Oyster House The fame of this historic location is largely due to the individual character of the Boston Oyster House, a Chicago landmark for over half a century. The Terrace Garden, also, has won national celebrity with its delicious menus, viva­cious dance music, and brilliant enter­tainments. The Cameo Room, seating 2000, offers ideal conditions for fraternity 
meetings and banquets. 
The Netc Morrison, when completed, wilt. be the world's largest and tallest hotel, -16 stories high, with 3400 rooms. 
Write for Reservations or Telephone Franklin 9600 
llllllllllllfllllUMIIIItlllllllillHIIMUIIilttlllUllllllI IIIIIIIHIIIMIIIIMJ^ 
•"••1 ttiiitiMH II liitiimiiitilSI Baiiiiiiiii Mill tiiitiiii • tinmiii iiiiniitintfimiiiiiiiiiiitMiiQ 


Charles E. Doyle & Co. 
INVESTMENT SECUEITIES CHASE NATIONAL BANK BUILDING TWENTY PINE STREET NEW YORK CITY 

ALLERTON 
Club Residences 
Headquarters for 

Notre Dame Men 
New York - Chicago Cleveland 
—•-•-•—*­

WEEKLY BATES TRANSIENT RATES $12.00 to $22.00 $2.50 to $3.50 
HAEEY J. CULLEN, '23 EXECUTIVE OFFICE: 
1 

285 Madison Ave, New York 
LOUIS E. WAGNER, '18 
1

1 1
1_ ii.ui mil I..II...II..III.I pliiiiiiiMiimiiiiin 1iiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiii iiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiitiiiii J
ill 


B nil 1 ii»i II I...I. iimniinimmiiinpj ISIiiitiiiitiiiniiiniiiiimii lllllllllll IIIDIIIIIIIItllltlllllllllltlllltllllllllllll llllltKIIIIIIIII iQ 



Notre Dame Club 
Marquette Club 
Of the City of New York 

Dinner Dances 
1929-1930 

One of the finest Oct. 19 The St. Regis Nov. 30......McAlpin Roof 
units of the Notre 
Dec. 31 Hotel Plaza 
Dame Alumni 

Feb, 15 The St. Regis March 17 Hotel Plaza Annual Dues $5 Dues reduced to only $5 a year. 



MARQUETTE CLUB 
22 East Thirty-Eighth Street 
22 East Thirty-Eighth St. 
At Madison 
NEW YORK 

Qi. lilllitllttliiii iniiitmmiitiiiiiiiiimnmipj Q« IIMIIIIttllltll iiiiitiiinB 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiii 
J ^^—^^­

SPEAKERS ^ "Cbotcc op LctulinftStatlotty " KocItcM:- IfuuuUbte -«­

fALLERTON HOUSel 
TOlNQRXHMrCHIOANAVENUB' 
CHICAQO'^y CLUB R£SIS>EnCB^ 
i FOi? jvcav^ANP voAffK-rKxx>japQMyi 
^OPFlCJALCHlCAaO HBAIK»Ultra25/ forlOZ Colleges'aiul Umvzcpitw^ V'«amt20Nallotiat&>rortti£iy*»*^ 
^—^12.5? jjcr -vvccU- ii|>~^— 
FCCTEALL /EASCN 
/TOP AT THE 

ALLECTCN 
NCTRE DAME tiEADCUACTERX IN ClilCAeC 
&IIHtlllllllllllllllltllltllMtllinillMltlllMII 
011 »s 
iiaititiiiiiiifttttfrMtfiMtttHtfi 

IN THIS ISSUE 
W. F. Montavon, '98, K. S. G 37 Exemplary . 40 Local Alumni Clubs 41 Women's Club Page 44 Bits of Eai-ly History 45 A Reading Guide to Philosophy, 
by Rev. C. C. Miltner, C. S. C, '11 48 Editorial 51 Athletics 52 The Alumni 53 
The masrazinc is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is §2.00 a year; the price of sinsrle copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of ?5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1897. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL MEMBER OF THE NATION-^L CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
HARLEY MCDE\ITT, '29, Advertising Mgr. 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
JLABK M. FOOTE, '73 Honorary President JOHN W. EGGEMAN, '00 President JAMES E . DEERY, '10 Vice-President JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary 
•WALTER DUNCAN, '12 Treasurer ALFRED C. RYAN, '20 Director GEORGE M . MAYPOLE, '03 
Director 5L HARRY MILLER, '10 
Director 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 

Director DON M. HAMILTON, '12 
(ex officio) Director 
tiiiii iiiiiiit 
..Q 
Comment 
"i2 FALL REUNION 

Too late for Class Notes, Kid Ashe writes that the Class of '22 will hold a Fall Reunion after the So. Cal. game in Chicago, Nov. 16. Ray Kearns, Terre Haute, Ind., is in charge of arrangements. 
Judge Eggeman's letter in this issue, it seems to the editor, over­rates the editorial contribution to an issue of the ALUMNUS, but it is printed for the benefit of those who think that a magazine materializes from the ether, that records auto­matically adjust themselves, that con­tacts are not within the province of time, and who wonder why the Asso­ciation pays .A.i-nistrong. 
You will note that the Business and Professional Directory is no better off than in the first issue. Opportunity' has not only knocked once for you, it has almost pounded the panels from your office doors. Please give this plan the consideration of any other business opportunity. 
Don't complain about your football tickets. Everyone can't sit on the 50 yard line. Those that are there, are there for a reason. Either they have applied early according to the rules, or they have been given tickets by those who did. Every alumnus is entitled to eight tickets. You will see at least seven strange faces in every eight, so don't be too quick to reach conclusions. Notre Dame has to depend on outside assistance. If through a few football tickets this help can be secured or repaid, the alumni should be the first to welcome the idea. Alumni complaint about football tickets magnifies the impor­tance of the sport to a degree that is detrimental to the academic interests of the University among the public. 
Look over the progi-ess of the Dues Campaign. It's a long way from sat­isfactory. If you aren't in, get in. If you came in early for a five, and can afford more, come again. This isn't a constant shakedown. It's just an effort to get to first base. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume VII. OCTOBEK, 1929 No. 2 
IV, R Montavon Is Honored By Pope 
K
NIGHTHOOD in the Order of St. Gregory the Great was con­ferred, at the direction of Pope Pius XI, upon William F. Montavon, Di­rector of the Legal Department of the National Catholic Welfare Confer­ence, at a ceremony at the Apostolic Delegation to the United States in Washington, D. C., on Sunday, Sep­tember 15. A large and notable gathering witnessed the ceremony. 
Mr. Montavon has headed the N. 

C. W. C. Legal Department since November, 1925. For almost three years he has been concentrating his efforts on the religious controversy in Mexico, and had an important part in the work which led to the recent settlement of that question and the bringing of peace to Mexico. 
His E.xcellency the Most Keverend Pietro Fumasoni-Biondi, Apostolic Delegate to the United States, per­sonally bestowed upon Mr. Montavon the decoration of the Order and felici­tated him. The Eev. Dr. John J. Burke, C.S.P., General Secretary at the N. C. W. C, read the Papal Brief, which set forth that the honor was conferred at the request of the Dele­gate. 
PIUS XI, Pope Beloved Son, Greeting and Apostolic Blessing. The Apostolic Delegate at Wash­ington commends you most highly to us and informs us that you are a Catholic, not only experienced in mat­ters of jurisprudence, but also out­standing both in your active devotion to the cause of religion and in your loyalty to the Roman See; that you have actively and prudently fulfilled the office of director of the Legal Department of the organization known as the National Catholic Wel­fare Conference and rendered and are rendering, with unfailing zeal, valua­ble serWces to the Church, and in pai-ticular to the Apostolic Delega­tion. It is therefore pleasing and grati­fying to us to grant the request of the Delegate and bestow on you a re­ward in keeping with such praise, by which we also may give evidence of our good will towards you. 
Therefore, by this brief we desig­nate and apopint you a Knight of the Order of St. Gregory the Great, of the civilian class, and we enroll you in the honored ranks of that same knighthood. We also authorize you to dress in the costume proper to this order of Knighthood, and to wear its official badge, namely, an octagonal Cross of Gold, with red-enameled sur­face, bearing in the center the image 
—Underwxxxl & Undenvood 

William F. Montavon, A.B. '98, K.S.G. 
of St. Gregoi-y the Great, with the silken cords, edged with yellow, to hang upon the left breast as is the custom with other Knights. In order that uniformity may be preserved both in the matter of the Cross and the dress, we have ordered that a full design be sent you. 
Given at St. Peter's, Rome, under the Fisherman's ring, the fifth day of August, 1929, the eighth year of our Pontificate. 
To our Beloved Son, William Fred­erick Montavon. 
P. CAKD. GASPARRI, Secretai-y of State. 

By HI S EXCELLENCY, The Apostolic Delegate: My dear Mr. Montavon: 
Our Holy Father is always pleased to reward those who serve in a special way the cause of our holy Faith throughout the world . In his name, it is a pleasure for me to con­fer the reward which he has sent you. 
I have known for many years now of your work as director of the Legal Department, National Catholic Wel­fare Conference. It calls for a thor­ough knowledge of those public affairs that affect the interests of the Catholic Church. Your experience and your constant study have fitted you for that post of director. Your pamphlets and articles of Catholic explanation and defense in leading periodicals have had far-reaching eifect.s. 
Your ever ready service and un­failing co-operation in recent work of this Delegation is well known to us all. We have need of intelligent, in­formed laymen who will be leaders in those fields where the laymen alone can lead. You have shown yourself a Catholic layman devoted to the faith; devoted to your country; of good judgment, zealous and always ready to serve. 
It is with great satisfaction that I confer, in the name of the Holy Fa­ther, this honor upon you. 
MR. MONTAVON'S STATEMENT, 

Your Excellency: Nothing that I can say will ade­quately express the feelings which ovenvhelmed me as I listened to the reading of this personal message from the Holy Father, who has deigned to call me therein "his beloved son." I have always thought the honor of serving with devotion every interest of the Holy See is, in itself, sufficient reward. I do not merit the words of personal praise but it is a joy and a cause of deepest gratitude to receive this honor from our august Pontiff. I know it is due to the kindess of His Excellency, our Apostolic Dele­gate. I think it is his own heart that has seen in me the praise which he sent to the Holy Father. I know that his own zeal and unselfishness lead one to do his utmost and I thank His Excellency from the depths of my soul for this honor which has come to me due more to his kindness and his 
appreciation than to any merit of 
mine. 
The office of Director of the Legal 
Department of the National Catholic 
Welfare Conference offered me a 
providential opportunity to serve the 
interests of the Church in this coun­
ti-y and in other countiies where our 
own Government has for various rea­
sons a predominating influence. Much 
of that work, in national relations 
outside of our own country, was done 
under the Direction of His Excel­
lency, and while it has been one of 
service and co-operation, to His Ex­
cellency, as to a leadei', I feel the 
praise and the success are due. 

And since I have worked not alone but as one of the family of the head­quarters staff of the National Cath­olic Welfare Conference, I have heard with a gratitude that I feel has been common to us all the words of ap­proval in this brief of our Holy Father. Like members of a family my associates have come not only to witness the conferring of this honor on me, but to share in its conferring. Presented to one, I feel it is in a man­ner conferred on all of us of the Na­tional Catholic Welfare Conference, because as indi^^duals we are power­less; our work is essentially a com­mon corporate work inspired by our common Catholic faith and by our common devotion to the Holy See. 
As a reward for the past, but still more as a commission for the future, I humbly accept this Knighthood in the Order of the Great Saint Gregory. To the fulfillment of that commission I solemnly pledge to Your Excellency as the representative of our Holy Father that loyalty and that zeal ever characteristic of true knighthood. 
A joint message of congratulation was received from the Most Rev. Leopoldo Ruiz y Flores, Apostolic Delegate to Mexico, and the Most Rev. Pascual Diaz, Primate of Mex­ico, both of whom were prominent figures in the settlement of the Mexican controversy. The two pre­lates called particular attention to "your assistance in the work of the 
N. C. W. C. on behalf of Mexico." 
NOTABLE PERSONS PRESENT 

The entire staff of the N. C. W. C. was present at the ceremony. Among others who witnessed the presentation were: The Rt. Rev. John M. McNa­mara, Auxiliary Bishop of Baltimore; the Rt. Rev. Msgr. James Hugh Ryan, Rector of the Catholic University of America; the Very Rev. George Sauvage, Procurator General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, stationed at Rome; the-Rt. Rev. Msgr. Edward 
A. Pace, Vice-Rector of the Catholic University; the Rt. Rev. Msgr. George Dougherty, of the Catholic Uni­versity; the Very Rev. Francis McBride, C.S.C, Superior of Holy Cross College, Washington; the Veiy Rev. Richard S. Cartwright, C.S.P., Superior of St. Paul's College; the Rev. Karl J. Alter, Director of the National Catholic School of Social Service; Admiral and Mrs. William S. Benson, Dr. and Mrs. Charles P. Neill, Mr. and Mrs. J. Leo Kolb, Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Haltigan and Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Mitchell. 
Mr. Montavon, with an education acquired in Notre Dame and other Catholic institutions, had achieved distinction in the fields of education, diplomacy and commerce before he came to the N. C. W. C. Notably, he had become an expert on Latin American peoples, among whom he had spent many years. 

Born in 1874 near Portsmouth, Ohio, he attended a local parochial school, St. Edward's College in On­tario and St. Charles' College in Maryland before entering Notre Dame. After three years there, he went as a Notre Dame exchange stu­dent to the Institute St. Croix, near Paris, France, where he spent two years. Returning, he received his A. 
B. degree, after which he spent three years at the Catholic University of America, Washington, studying for his Doctorate. 
At this point, the Catholic Uni­versity was called upon by the Gov­ernment to supply a teacher to work in the Philippines. Young Montavon was appointed and went to the Islands. He rose rapidly and by 1915, he was Superintendent of Schools of the Pro%ince of Tayabas, largest and wealthiest in the Philippines. During his stay in the Islands he also found occasion to lend valuable aid to Cath­olic education there. 
NOTABLE WAR-TIME WORK 

Returning to the United States, he came to Washington at the time when the Foreign Service of the Depart­ment of Commerce was being organ­ized. The appointment of ten com­mercial attaches in key capitals had been authorized by Congress. Win­ning first place in a competitive ex­amination taken by 123 candidates, Mr. Montavon was appointed U. S. Commercial Attache in Lima, his ter­ritory including Peru, Ecuador and Bolivia in South America. In the World War this position assumed special importance, because of the nitrate, sugar, cotton and petroleum in that area. When the Inter-Allied Board on Enemy Trading was formed in Lima, including the heads of all Allied diplomatic missions in the city, Mr. Montavon was chosen as its first secretary and chairman of its Com­mittee on Investigations. In this ca­pacity, he made many trips along the West Coast, gaining an intimate knowledge of the people. 
The day after the Armistice, Mr. Montavon resigned his post with the Government to accept a position with a large petroleum corporation con­trolling the production and refining industry in Peru. As the executive representative of this company, he negotiated an agreement with the Peruvian Government for the inter­national arbitration of a controversy over oil land titles. The controversy was satisfacorily settled. In 1922, he went to Colombia for his company, where he had charge of clearing up other title difficulties. 
It was shortly after this that he was forced to return to the United States because of the illness of Mrs. Montavon. The next three years he spent in this country, retaining his connection with his company. 
When he joined the N. C. W. C. as Director of its Legal Department al­most immediately his duties plunged him into the problems of the Mexican persecution, which for nearly three years occupied much of his time. His expert knowledge of Latin America and its people, and of the Spanish language, fitted him particularly for his work. 
WM . F . MONTAVON AND MEXICO. 

The reconciliation of the Church and State in Mexico is not the work of any one man. The American Hier­archy has manifested its concern for the welfare of the Church in Mexico consistently since Carranza began enforcing his decrees against the Church. When in 1916 these decrees were embodied in the Queretaro Con­stitution the antichristian clauses of that Constitution were protested. 
With the induction of Calles into office in 1925 it became apparent that an attempt would be made to enforce these antichristian provisions. Some of the supporters of Calles undertook to set up a schismatic church in Mexico. Their grotesque attempt was 
repudiated by the Mexican people. 
Before adjournment the National 

Congress of Mexico delegated to Gen­
eral Calles authority to revise and 
amend the penal code so as to provide 
penalties for offenses against the 
Queretaro Constitution and in Jan­
uary, 1926, it became evident that 
this authority would be e.\ercised 
with regard to the antichristian 
clauses of that Constitution. 
The Venerable Archbishop of 

Mexico, Msgr. Jose Mora y del Eio 
who died in exile at San Antonio, 
Texas, in 1928, stated in an interview 
published on February 6, 1926, in EI 
Universal, an important daily paper 
of Mexico City, that there was no 
change in the attitude of the Church 
expressed by the Mexican Bishops in 
1917 when the Queretaro Constitution 
was first promulgated. Professing to 
see in this act of the Archbishop an 
appeal to rebellion the Calles Govern­
ment cited the Archbishop before the 
Attorney General with the instruction 
that he be indicted if he was found 
guilty of any offense against the law. 
Explaining that what he had done 
was nothing new, that the statement 
that had been published had been a 
public record for ten years, the Arch­
bishop cleared himself and the 
charges against him were dismissed. 
At the beginning of March, 1926, the Mexican Federation of Labor held its annual Convention in Mexico City. Calles, who owed his election to this 
il/rs. Montavon, His Excellency The Apostolic Delegate, and Mr. Montavon.
organization, violently attacked the Bishops and the clergy in addressing fonned as to the importance and the expose the agencies that were back of the Convention and resolutions were true nature of the struggle. the propaganda and destroy much of adopted condemning religion "as the Wm. F. Montavon, Director of the their effectiveness. enemy of progi-ess" and endorsing the Legal Department of N. C. W. C. In addition to numerous articles anti-religious policies of Calles. No since November, 1925, had had long contributed to periodicals, many of doubt remained that a struggle was experience in Latin America. He which were translated and thus re­
imminent in which the opponents of was eminently qualified by training ceived wide circulation in Spanish the Church would not only have con­and experience and was given a lead­and French speaking countries, Mr. 
trol of the armed forces of the nation, Montavon prepared four pamphlets. 
ing part in the activities of the N. C. but would be supported by the C. R. The fix-st of these has already been 
W. C. with regard to Mexico. Mr. 
0. M. (Confederacion Regional mentioned. The second analyzes the 
Montavon prepared a pamphlet en­
Obrera Mexicana) under the domina­Calles decree of July, 1926. The 
titled "The Facts Concerning Mex­
tion of Morones and Tejada. other two are most interesting. In 
ico." This analysis of the situation 
them Mr. Montavon assembles state­The Mexican situation was dis­and its underlying causes received ments made in editorials in the lead­cussed by the Administrative Com­wide distribution in the United ing Mexican journals under the gen­mittee of the National Catholic Wel­States and other countries. 
eral title "The Verdict of the Me.xican 
fare Conference at its meeting during The supporters of the anti-religious Press," and proves that the anti-re­April, 1926. The Committee presented movement in Mexico conducted a ligious activities of the Me.xican 
a memorial to President Coolidge call­world-wide propaganda in an effort Government did not have the moral ing upon him to do everything possi­to win the support of public opinion. 
support of the Me-xican people. Mr. 
ble to prevent the struggle. An appeal Mr. Montavon met this campaign in Montavon contributed an important was addressed to the people of the the United States. He not only con­article on Mexico to the Oflicial Cath­United States by the Bishops. The tributed a long list of articles and olic Year Book. 
Bishops instructed the National Cath­statements to the press, he made 
olic Welfare Conference to take public addresses and took part in de­That the Church could not be des­charge of an educational campaign 
bates, and as the result of a thorough by which public opinion would be in-(Continued on Pase 64 > 
investigation was able in the end to 
— Exemplary — 
but a no Jess distinguished crown of 
laymen are showing forth in com­
munities throughout the country, 
those qualities of sterling manliood 
that are inculcated here. 
Every fall the eyes of the nation 
are focused on Notre Dame, because 
of those of her sons who, like "The 
Thundering Legion" in the time of 
Marcus Aurelius going forth to battle 
for the Catholic name, show to the 
world that men who pray concede to 
others nothing of skill or courage 
or valor. 
There must be something admirable 
in the training and contacts that 
develop men like you. The words and 
example and the solicitude of the 
members of the Congregation of Holy 
Cross have a potency that justifies 
the pride they must feel in the men 
whom they have prepared for life's 
problems and life's responsibilities. 
Therefore, frani the bottom of my 
heart I proclaim my admiration for 
Notre Dame and all that it stands for, 
My hope is that each succeeding year 
may bring greater happiness and 
success of its faculty and Alumni, and 
that the dream of its great founder 
may be realized in the measure of 
good done, for time and eternity. 
SCRIBBLER CONTROVERSY 
Having plunged with that title, I 
am now free to remind you that last 
Spring in these columns a letter from 
Harry Flannery, '23, placing the ori­
gin of the term Scribblers in the 
regime of the Writers Club was fol­
lowed by a letter from Harry Mc­
Guire, '25, placing the origin in the 
Scribblers ub initio. 
The party of the first part answered with documentary evidence supported by Louis Bruggner, '23, but the rush of Commencement, Uni­versal N. D. Night and Reunions crowded out this interesting and per­ilous (for the Editor) exchange. However, having unwittingly started the controversy, it is only fair to pub­lish a reference submitted by Messrs. Flannery and Bruggner (indepen­dently) showing that the Notre Dame Scholastic, Vol. LV, No. 21, page 476, dated March 11, 1922, the school year previous to Harry's (McGuire) in­cumbency" carried the following item: 
"Fifteen years apprenticeship in life chasing news and a dollar or two, is the path to success or mediocrity at the age of 45, for the young men in journalism, said McCready Huston, associate editor of the South Bend Tribune, in his talk to the Scribblers, newly donned name of the Writers Club " 
A little booklet has just heen referred to the Alumni Office. It describes an oversubscription of near­ly $50,000 on the §250,000 drive recently completed by Mt. St. Mary's College, Emmitsburg, Md. Appromi­mately 600 alumni, a large percent­age of them priests, contributed prac­tically the entire amount, an average gift of §500. Tlie successful cam­paign was a tribute to the loyalty and spirit of the College, from which Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, received an LL. D. 
Significant is the fact that if 600 lay alumni of Notre Dame would give only $25 a year to the University, it would amount to the equivalent of a successful $300,000 endowment campaign invested at 5%. 
The situation brings to mind that delightful talk given by Rt. Rev. Bernard Mahoney, D. D. , Bishop of Sioux Falls, honorary president of the Mt. St. Mary's alumni association, at the annual banquet of Notre Dame alumni on June 1, which is printed heremth. 

Mr. Toastmaster and Alumni of Notie Dame I wish to thank the toastmaster for referring to me as a distinguished man. In doing so he has set my mind at ease after an experience I had in my home at Sioux Falls. Sometimes ago my sister paid a bill, and she said to the girl, "Does the Bishop get the discount?" The girl answered: "Does he work here ?" Therefore you can understand how I feel now when I find that I am so well thought of at Notre Dame. Gentlemen: I welcome this oppor­tunity to let you know how pleased I am to he with you. I consider the invitation to pontificate at your Com­mencement Exercises a very flatter­ing distinction, and I shall cherish the memory of the hospitality and goodwill that have been accorded the stranger ^rithin your gates. Of course, you will pardon me if I am slow to say that Notre Dame is the greatest College in the country. That distinction is reserved for the College from which I graduated just thirty years ago. Mount Saint Mary's, Emmitsburg, Maryland, is my Alma Mater, and I take it for granted that you expect me to give expres­sion to the hold which that dear old College has on my gratitude and appreciation. However, as Honorary President of its Alumni, I have been commissioned to tell you that Mount Saint Mary's 
College has never I'orgotten that a little over forty years ago, when it was pasing through a financial crisis that threatened its very existence, the students of Notre Dame sent on to the students of Mount Saint Mary's the prizes which they had won during the scholastic year, in order to show sympathy ivith a sister college in distress. 
This gesture of kindliness and gen­erosity is embedded in the memory of 
Rt. Rev. Bernard Mahoney, D. D. 
all those who love the old Mountain, and is one of the reasons why the bond between Notre Dame and Mount Saint Mary's has all the qualities of a friendship that is deep, enduring and abiding. 

Gentlemen, a Catholic Bishop would find it difficult to overstate the claims of Notre Dame on the regard of all those who are interested in the prog­ress of the Church in this favored land of ours. From the very begin­ning, this great University has crys­tallized in its training and in its tradition all that is noblest and best in Catholic culture and American sen­timent. From the time of its founder, the great Father Sorin, down to the present moment, Notre Dame has been synonymous with the progress that we like to think is a national trait, and with the care and conservation that are the heritage of the Church of God. 
Not only does a long line of clerics proclaim the glories of this school. 
October, 1920 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
B 
MDIMIIIII'IIIIIIIDIII • IM'lltllllllililllttiiiiiiiiiiii UIIIIMIIIItUtlMIIIMUIMtlllimilllttliltUIIIIIMIllUMIIIinillltMiiiiitnHlla 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
MiaiitiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiii 
ARICANSAS 
Arkansas Gazette; Sept. 1, 1929. 

"At noon yesterday Rockne was the guest of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Arkansas at lunch at the Hotel Marion. Five of the alumni present were school mates of the famous coach when he attended Notre Dame. Rockne played on the un­defeated team of 1913. He was also a track athlete. The five classmates were Burt L. Roberts, Aristo Briz­zolara and Warren Baldwin, of Little Rock; the Rev. George F. X. Stras­sner, Hope, and Prosecuting Attorney 
T. L. Clifford, Camden." 
At the banquet in the evening, sponsored by the Little Rock College Alumni Association, T. L. Clifford, '14, introduced the Coach. 
Burt L. Roberts is the new Secre­tary of the Club. Father Strassner continues as President. 
BUFFALO A letter from Paul Hoeffler gives a good line-up of the individual BufTalonians: . I was standing on the corner in front of the office with Joe Shea, '26, having him tell me how he runs the Hotel Statler here, when I spied John Byrne, '22, go sailing by, his chest out, his head so big he couldn't wear a hat. The news leaked out, in fact it gushed all over us, that John was a proud papa—a girl, 7 pounds 4 ounces. John was going to Chi I think to take over the vice-presidency of some company or other. Jack Brennan stepped out and got himself a swell looking little ^vife around here somewheres. He's pretty chesty now but years will tell who's boss— he thinks so now. . . . Father Broughall spent one day here. John Uebbing, '24, Tom Kenny, '27, and myself went to his room at the Ath­letic Club and had a real old fash­ioned party—chewed the rag for hours just like old times. I look for­ward to his yearly visits. 
Nick Kauffman, '27, has increased his girth quite ^a bit since the last meeting. While talking to him the other day. Max Kazus, 'IS, came up and gave us a low down on how to play the market. Don Aigner is now office manager of Colonial Air­ways or Curtiss Flying School. He drives back and forth from Silver Creek with George Spencer, '25, and Joe Angelino, '28, who are helping Buffalo become a bigger and better Metropolis. Al Boehm, '24, and some of the other boys including Vince Brown, '23, ivill be down to see the Aimy take their annual beating. 
Biff Lee, '14, is trying to make the 

U. of Buffalo recognized by the sport­ing world. Biff has a job on his hands but from the advance dope his team will be the best the school has turned out for years. That is about all I can think of except that Gordon Bennett, Bob Bums and some of their many committee men have arranged a big time for our first meeting this Fall . . 
CHICAGO Fred Steers, chairman of the lunch­eon committee, has begun a series of fall meetings of the "Rockne Advi­sory Committee," at luncheons each Friday in the Ivory Room at Mandel Brothers, at 12 noon. The announce­ment says, "There is no place where you can express your ideas to less effect." 
"Quad Wrangles" is the title of a new publication inaugurated by the Club. Tom Barry, '25, is the editor, Frank Fitzsimmons, '20, business manager, and Eugene O'Brien, ad­vertising manager. 
Excerpts from the first issue are interesting: 
"The parties this Fall are so ar­ranged that there will be some at­traction for every old student from 1870 to 1929 in every affair. (The first big affair was Commercial Night, which was planned for the night of Oct. 10 under the capable chairmanship of Jim Sanford, '15.) 
"The Stevens Hotel has been selected as general headquarters for the big Fall offensive. Art Weinrich is in charge of the party which will be held there at 9 P. M. on the night of the Wisconsin game. Officially the party will consist of a dance in the main dining room with a reception of celebrities and introduction of guests by President John Costello. . It is Chicago's first chance to demonstrate its hospitality to Notre Dame alumni in a national way and Chicago has never yet failed to seize an oppor­tunity. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIUIMIMIiittIM ..Q 
"The big jamboree of the year will be the dinner and dance following the Southern California game on Nov. 16. Eddie Gould has been selected to grease the machinery for that trip. Both dinner and dance will be held in the Stevens Hotel dining room with a short interval between. -411 talks will be limited to three minutes. 
"The wind-up of the pre-Thanks­giving schedule will be on Nov. 23, the night on which Notre Dame hopes to add another Big Ten scalp to the trophies hanging in the gym. Tom McCabe has accumulated a lot of bond-selling arguments to induce the faithful to attend." 
DETROIT 

The Detroit club will operate its own train to Chicago for the Wis­consin game, Oct. 19. The Wisconsin club of Detroit has taken several coaches. The train is expected to carry more than 400 rooters into Chicago, arriving at the Dearborn Street Station at 1 p. m. The return trip will begin at 7 p. m. 
The alumni listened to returns on the Indiana game at the Norton-Palmer hotel, Oct. 5. Play-by-Play was furnished through the courtesy of the Unitetl Press. Incidentally, the Notre Dame followers were inter­ested in the encounter between Jim Crowley's Michigan State team and Kipke's Michigan men at Ann Arbor. Returns on this game came simul­taneously by radio. 
Meetings of the club at-the Fronte­nac the evening of Sept. 19 and Oct. 3 were well attended. 
Joe Morrissey has succeeded Louis Conroy as coach at St. Frederick's High School, Pontiac. Conroy is now with the Bell.Telephone Co, Pontiac. The ranks of Notre Dame coaches in the Detroit district have been in­creased by Joe Friske, who' is at Holy Name Institute. Friske's team started the season by winning its first game, 26 to 7. PViske is attend­ing University of Detroit law school. 
Bud Boeringer, whose popularity as line coach at the University of Detroit continues undiminished, is acquiring publicity in Detroit news­papers with his tobacco chewing ability. Sam Greene, sports writer for the News, has suggested a con­
test between Art Shires (the Great 
Shires) of the White Sox and Bud to 
see who can carry the biggest chew. 
Greene predicts Shires would finish 
second. 
Al Slaggert took a pre-season 
training trip in preparation for 
resuming his duties as treasurer of 
the Detroit club. The jaunt took him 
to Montreal and thence down to New 
York. From Al's description of the 
wine lists in Quebec, it is to be in­
ferred that he paused now and then 
along the way. However, he had 
vivid descriptions of the shrines that 
dot the wayside, which pi"obably evens 
things up. 
Ed Marcus is following the trend of the times. Ed, who has operated the Acme Letter Service, is going in for things in a big way by taking over the Kerr Letter Co. At last reports Ed was running a close sec­ond to President Hoover as the busiest man in America. 
Friends of Henry Wurzer, Sr., for­mer president of the Alumni Asso­ciation, will learn with pleasure that he is improved in health. Mr. Wur­zer, ordered to take a rest a number of months ago, is now able to devote a portion of his time to the law again. 
Friends of Henry Houghton learned with astonishment if his death early in September, following an operation for appendicitis. Henry rarely, if ever, missed a Notre Dame affair in Detroit. His presence will be missed whenever Notre Dame men are together. 
NEW JERSEY The Annual Retreat of the New Jersey Club was attended by about forty members this year. Tom Farrell writes that every one came away spiritually refreshed. He adds that the Retreat is a movement that other Clubs should develop as a very con­structive and beneficial activity for members. NEW YORK At last report the New York Club was preparing en masse for the Rockne Special to the Navy game. 
PHILADELPHLA 
New elections in the City of Brotherly Love have placed Vincent McNally, '27, former basketball star, as president of the Club, Gus Desch, '23, former track star, as vice-president, E. Bradley Bailey, '22, as secretary, Clarence James, '15, as treasurer, and Ed Hunsinger, '25, as steward. The monthly banquets have not been started because Jim O'Don­nell has been appointed to say grace 
and doesn't know how yet— 
deponent sayeth. 
ROCHESTER 
The Club is planning a big get-
together in New York the day of the 
Army game. The bi-monthly dinner 
meetings are beginning again, 
launched by a dinner at the Eggleston 
on October 1. There are also the two 
luncheon meetings a month, rather 
every other Wednesday noon. Too 
late to classify was the new^s of the 
wedding on Sept. 24 of Gerald J. 
Le Pine to Miss Evelyn Maier on 
Sept. 24. Gerry and Mrs. Le Pine are 
now at home in the Westminster 
Apts., Monroe Ave., Rochester, after 
a honeymoon in Virginia, Kentucky 
and Tennessee. 
The Christmas dance of the Club 
will be held on Friday, Dec. 27, in 
the Sagamore Hotel Roof Garden. 
Ray Pagan's band will be the big 
attraction. 
SYRACUSE & CENTRAL N. Y. 
At a special meeting of the Club it was passed that, "Monthly lunch­eon meetings be resumed on the sec­ond Wednesday of each month at Schraft's, time 12:15 noon! A num­ber of members attended the Navy game on the N. Y. Club's special. -A dinner dance is being planned for the Christmas holidays 
TWIN CITIES 
W. C. Bins, new secretary of the Club writes: 
At the suggestion of Mr. Tom Lee former Secretary of the Twin Cities Notre Dame Club, I am writing you to inform you that we had election of officers on Monday, Oct. 1st. and I am listing the new officers for your files. 
Thomas P. Guthrie, Pres. Rev. J. H. Galligan, Vice-Pres. Wm Cole, Vice-Pres. 
W.C. Bins, Sec. & Treas. Mr. Cole was appointed Chairman of the Annual Christmas Party which ^vill be held during the Christmas season. We had a very successful seasonal Christmas Party last Dec. 28th. at the Lowry Hotel, St. Paul, and hope to make this year's Formal the Gala Event of the Christmas Season. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA Charles "Pinky" Martin, sec, writes: 
Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania is out to make a big time of the Notre Dame—Carnegie Tech game. We woiild appreciate any boost you may give us in the ALUM­NUS or otherwise and we feel sure you can do us a lot of good. 
On the night before the game, Fri­day, October 25th, there win be a joint smoker for all of Notre Dame and Carnegie Tech Alumm', to be held in Carnegie Tech's gymnasium. The smoker will start at 8:30 P. M. There ivill be entertainment, boxing bouts and EATS. All Notre Dame Alumni are cordially invited as guests of Carnegie Tech. 
Saturday night after the game there will be a dinner dance given by the Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania at 7:30 at the Wm, Penn Hotel, to which all Alumni and their friends are cordially invited. The tickets will be $7.50 per couple for the dinner and the dance. For those who cannot or do not care to come for the dinner, the admission to the dance following the dinner will be ?3.50 per couple. Reser\'ations for the dinner dance should be made in advance with Hugh C. Boyle, 1519 Oliver Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa., by for­warding him a check or money order for the places to be reserved. Tickets for the dance following the dinner may also be secured by sending 53.50 per ticket to the same office. Make all checks payable to the Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania. All reservation should be made well in advance in order to insure a place. 
Headquarters will be established at the Wm. Penn Hotel for the conven­ience of visiting Alumni and their friends 
Ivindly emphasize the fact that no tickets for the game will be handled by the local Alumni. All reservations for tickets should be made with the Carnegie Tech Athletic Association or the Notre Dame Athletic Assn. 
The Notre Dame Committee for the combination smoker of the Notre Dame Alumni and Carnegie Tech Alumni are as follows: 
Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, Chairman; James F. OToole, A. J. Diebold, S. R. Rudolph, Vince Sweeney. 
The Carnegie Tech Committee are as follows: Clarence Overend, Chainnan; John 
P. Laboon, L. H. Lee, D. A. Casey, John Parke, Walter Blenko. 
As outlined our program has been made up of some stunts performed by eight police dogs, another act by a black face comedian, six good ama­teur bouts and an Hawaiian quartet, followed by a light lunch. All of the Notre Dame Alumni who expect to be in Pittsburgh the night before the game are invited to be present at this smoker. We expect to have as our guests, Knute K. Rockne and any other Notre Dame officials who might be in the city at that time. 

Womens' Club Election 
Considerable interest was taken in the balloting for officers of the Womens' Club of the Association. Sr. M. Fidelis, O. S. U., '25, of Toledo, was elected president. Two vice-presidents were retained and two more elected this year, Sr. Bene­dictus, C.S.C., '25, St Mary's, Notre Dame, and Sr. Ignatia, L M., '25, of Cleveland, 0. Miss Sarah OWeill, 
M. A. '27, The Rushton Apts., South Bend, was elected secretary. 
• Football by Radio 
The solution to the ticket situation 
seems to be approaching in the in­
creasing broadcasting of football 
games. Aside from the moral to 
colleges to buy radio stock, the fol­
lowing Notre Dame games are in 
prospect: 
CBS, Army—^Notre Dame game on 
Nov. 30. (The Navy game was to be 
broadcasted over the Columbia sys­
tem if rain prevented the World's 
Series on Oct. 12.) 
NBC, Army—^Notre Dame game on 
Nov. 30. (The Navy game was to be 
broadcasted over WJZ chain of the 
system on Oct. 12. The Army game 
will be on the WEAF chain.) 
Sollitt Gets Stadium Contract 

Ralph Sollitt & Sons, contractors 
of the University Dining Halls, were 
announced last month as the low 
bidders on the new stadium. The 
firm is local, and wiU employ about 
400 men in the construction of the 
new field. 
Interesting is the fact that the turf from the present Cartier Field, with all its traditions, will be moved to the new stadium this fall to be ready for the big opening schedule in 1930. 
—Endorsed by Will Rogers 
Those who do not believe in the need for a militant, informed alumni, need only to read such passages as recently appeared under the signature of the usually astute Will Rogers. Gil Dobie, gloomier than ever, had amused Mr. Rogers, which was news. Mr. Rogers commented that if Cornell would wake up like Notre Dame, California and Princeton, and realize that touchdowns and coaches have succeeded degrees and college pres­idents as the end of education, Cornell would be more prosperous. And you'd be surprised how far these little scandals throw their beams. 
Status of 1929-30 Dues 
(CLUB QUOTAS) 
Two hundred and forty-four alumni have paid their dues since August 7, which means after a week of grace had been given for the mails from both coasts. Now that is both a good sign and a bad one. If it means that the payment of dues is not essentially considered in connection with football prefer­ence, fine—that's as it should be. But if it means that most of the 244 expect preference the same as those who were paid by August 1 as specified in a dozen communications, then it's just too bad. The status of the Clubs as of Oct. 1 is: 
(The successful Clubs are making their quotas by the method SOMETHING FROM EVERYBODY. The quotas were assessed 
Club 
Akron, 0 Albany Arkansas Buffalo Boston Calumet Region Central Ohio Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Connecticut Valley Dayton, 0. Denver, Colo. Des Moines, Iowa Detroit District of Columbia Fort Wayne Fox Eiver Valley 

Hamilton, 0 Hiawatha Land Club Houston Indianapolis Intermountain Club Joliet Kansas City, Mo Kentucky Los Angeles Louisiana-Mississippi Manila, P. I Memphis, Tenn. Milwaukee Montana Nashville Nebraska New Jersey New York City Northern California Oklahoma Paris Philadelphia Portland, Ore Rochester, N. Y Rock River Valley St. Joseph Valley St. Louis 
S. W. Texas Syracuse Toledo Ttri-Cities Twin Cities (M. and St. P.) Wabash Valley Western Pennsylvania Western Washington Women's Club Youngstown, 0. 
Quota
 §145 No Quota  100 175 No Quota  280 535 2500 240 550 340 115 ISO 130 700
 95 435 255
 No Quota  No Quota  No Quota  625
 70 215 350 235 550 360 205 110 215 145
 40 410 320 795 125 105
 No Quota  145 385 320 No Quota  1750 440 290 140 360 165 550 225 440 210 No Quota  155 
Contnbuted
 $75
 5 75
 110 55 '"'
 1365.50 105 210 120
 38 35 25 140 40 120 70
 125 0 35 65 60 60 25 0 25 112 20 5 5 295 575 35 60
 30 42.50 35
 543.50 70 35 55 55 40
 110 5 160 15
 5 
Deficit 
 ?70 
 95  100 
 170 
 480 
 1134.50  135  240  220 
 77  145  105  560 
 55  315  185 
 500  70  180  285  175  490  335  205  85  103  125  35  405  25  220  90  45 
 115  342.50  285 
 1206.50  370  255  85  305  125  440  220  280  195 
 150 
 suggested,  on a basis 

that makes it unnecessary for a live Club to tax any member heavily.) 
B" 
lltllllllltlKtMMtllllll 
..Q 

WOMEN'S CLUB PAGE 
a-,...EI 
Minutes of the Third Annual Meeting Women's Club of the A. A. of die University of Notre Dame, August 2, 1929 
The third annual business meeting of the Women's Club of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame was called to order by the president, Sr. M. Eleanore, C.S.C, at 3:30 o'clock on Friday afternoon, August 2, in Brownson Study Hall. The opening prayer was said by Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C. 
I. The assembly moved and seconded that the minutes of the 1928 meeting be accepted. II. The Constitution was amended so as to extend the term of ofBce to two years, with the provision that at least one-half of the officers be restrained at each election. According to this provision, Sr. Aloysi, S. N. D., and Sr. Leona, S. S. J., are to be retained as vice-presidents for the year 1929-30. III. The president, Sr. Eleanore, C.S.C, appointed the following nominating committee to prepare two tickets: Sr. M. Dolorosa, O.M., chairlady. Sr; M. Josephine, Brown County Ursulines. Sr. M. Aniseta, O.M. Sr. M. Veronique, C.S.C. Sr. De Paul, S.S.J. IV. The committees on Curricula of Studies for Grades and High School Teachers are as follows: 
1.
 Committee on Comparative Re­quirements for Teachers in the Grades in the Various States— 

Sr. Pius, C.S.C, chairlady. Sr. M. Presentation, H.H.M. Sr. M. Lucia, (Montana). Sr. IL Aquinas, O.S.U. (Ky.) 

2.
 Committee on Textbooks for Education Courses for Grade Teach­ers— 

Sr. Leona, S.C, chairlady. Sr. M. Michaela, S.S.J. Sr. Louis Irene, C.S.C Sr. Vera, S.N.D. Sr. Generosa, S.C. 

3.
 Committee on Comparative Re­quirements for Teachers in High Schools in the Various States— 


Sr. Margaret Marie, C.S.C, chair­
lady. Mother Sophia, O.M. Sr. Genevieve, O.S.U. (Toledo). 
Sr. Godfrey, S.N.D. Sr. Isabelle Marie, S.L. (Denver). 
4. Committee on Textbooks for Education Courses for High School Teachers. 
Sr. Agnes Alma, O.P., chairlady. Sr. M. Cecilia, O.M. Sr. Agatha, B.V.M. ­Sr. Frederick, C.S.C. Sr. M. Peter, O.P. The ultimate object of this study is 
uniform curricula of studies for grade and for high school teachers in our Catholic pedagog:ical schools which will at the same time meet the existing demands of the various States in which these schools are located and have room for courses growing out of the particular needs of Catholic teachers. The obvious requirements of the members of the various committees are experience in the field of pedagogy and willingness to do a vast amount of work. 
The reports of these committees are to be presented at the regular 1930 meeting. 
V. 
The assembly approved the follow­ing program for the 1930 meeting in addition to the reports of the com­mittees just mentioned— 
1. The Liturgical Movements in Catholic Schools (paper)—Sr. M. Benedictus, C.S.C. Discussion by Sr. 
M. Ale-xine, S.C 
2.
 On Bringing Courses in Religion from the Classroom into Life (paper) —Sr. IL Louise, O.S.U. Discussion by Sr. M. Celestine, S.L. 

3.
 On Training Grade and High School Pupils to do Extra-Curricular Reading (paper)—Sr. M. Josephine, 


O.S.U. Discussion by Sr. Mary Eliza­beth, H.H.M. VI. 
Sr. Louis Irene, C.S.C, presented a very enlightening piece of research, based on the results of questionnaires sent to the members. The study con­sidered the Organization of Educa­tional Curriculum. 
The paper was given very favor­able discussion by Sr. M. Leona, S.C, and Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C. 
VIL Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, made mention of the following— Appreciation and gratitude •n-as 
expressed for the work of the retir­ing president, Sr. M. Eleanore, C.S.C, the officers, and the members of the various committees for the splendid work done. 
Regret was indicated by the speak­er for the presence of so small an assembly. However, it was suggested that something fine could result from the meeting of even so small a repre­sentation. It took only six men and St. Ignatius to establish the Jesuit Order. 
The members of the organization were urged to assist the work of the University by offering constructive criticism and then consider that their only other task is one of cooperation with the policies of the school. 
It was suggested that the 1930 meeting adopt the character of an educational conference. The various committees and officers should be given ^\'ide powers to arrange the details of the program in advance so that all of the business can be con­ducted within twenty or thirty min­utes by the members. Then the meeting should be opened to all of the Sisters on the campus. The educa­tional issues considered at the open session will be published by the Uni­versity as research bulletins, if the assembly wishes. 
III. 
A motion was made and seconded that the officers of the organization be given the power to act as an executive committee to take care of all the details of program planning for the 1930 preliminary meeting, so that the regular meeting may be opened to the Sister-students on the campus. 
IX. 
The meeting voted to have a 
Requiem High Mass sung for Rev. 
George Albertson, C.S.C. 
X. 
The retiring president expressed 
her gratitude for the re-election and 
in her generous manner offered her 
continued services to promote the in­
terests of the organization. 
XI. 
The meeting was adjourned. 
(Miss) ANTOINETTE SEMORTIER, Secretary. 

Bits of Early History of Notre Dame 
T
HROUGH Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, the Editor has had the pleasure of coming in contact with a family whose connections with Notre Dame began with its founding. 
The accompanying illustration is that of William Good, one of the first students at Notre Dame. Joseph Good and Samuel Good, younger brothers, were also student at Notre Dame, as was Joshua Miller, a brother-in-law. A sister of William Good was a student at St. Mary's when that institution was located at Bertrand, Mich., and a small willow slip planted by her then is now a giant willow tree standing next to the little building that was St. Mary's then. 
Joseph Good left Notre Dame be­cause he didn't like the soup, but Wil­liam stayed on to complete his course. The Good family were rare among the pioneers in their devotion to books and the cause of education. William Good's parents were staunch Protes­tants, but so impelling was their educational bent that they became firm friends of Father Sorin and all the children attended Notre Dame and St. Mary's. But even this liber­alism was limited and the sister of William Good had to run away to Chicago to be baptized in the Church. Now all the descendants of this early family are Catholics, and the faith of the converted sister, who walked five miles to Mishawaka or to Notre Dame to church, has borne fruit. The family were founders of St. Patrick's parish. South Bend, and the old homestead, entered with the govern­ment by William Good's father, is still occupied by his descendants. 
William Good went to California during the gold rush of '49. He was successful there and came back to South Bend in 1853 to drive a num­ber of horses back to California. He took them as far as Carson City, Nevada, where he was taken ill, died and was buried. 
Samuel Good went to Colorado during the mining boom there. He carried suplies from Denver to Lead-ville for t\vo years. The prices com­modities brought then sound modern —boots, $26; a sack of flour, 520, etc. But two years was enough for Sam­uel Good, and he returned to South Bend where he died at an advanced age. 
Descendants of the Good family, all nephews and nieces of William Good, are Mrs. Maliel Good Wood, 2309 W. 
23rd St., Los Angeles; John J. Kon­zen, 1620 Castro St., San Francisco; Frank P. Konzen, 550 Lincoln Way W., Mishawaka; Mrs. Joseph Metz­ger, 1861 Horger Ave, Detroit; Miss Mary Konzen and Miss Anna Konzen, 
R. R. 1, Box 4, South Bend, Ind. A case for a top hat is in the Alumni Office at present, the property of Wil­liam Good while he lived. 
William Good, 1S23-1853 

That all was not carefree and serene as the modem campus, is evidenced from the History of Notre Dame. When Alexis Coquillard and the Good boys were struggling with the soup, other conditions added to their discomforts. "In an old record of cold winters in this country, which dates back to 1607, that OTnter when Notre Dame was founded (1842-43) is named as one of the coldest. Snow was fifteen inches deep as far south as Georgia. . . . 
"At Mishawaka, as well as at South Bend and Niles, as soon as it was found that Father Sorin and his Brothers intended to build a college and novitiate, there was much objec­tion and even alarm manifested. The number of priests was exaggerated from one to tivelve, and the seven Brothers became 'hventy monks out at the lake. ' Moreover, it was added that the Pope of Rome had already sent Father Sorin ?90,000, and would soon send another §10,000 to make the even number. If there were not a possible element of danger in this wild talk, it must have seemed rather amusing to this poor priest and his shivering Brothers who made their hard beds on the bare floor where the bitter snows sifted in upon them through the chinks in the walls. There was indeed nothing very en­couraging in this reception. . . . The total amount of money to the credit of the yonng community on their arrival at Notre Dame, including money collected by the Bishop and still in his hands, and a small amount sent from Europe, was less than 
$1,500." 
Twenty-five years after these pio­neers were laying the foundation for Notre Dame, things were still far from ideal or even comfortable. The ALUMNUS is privileged to reprint a letter describing the Notre Dame of 1870, written by Thomas J. Dundon; B.S., '73, Ishpeming, Mich. Mr. Dun-don read the letter at the U. N. D. Night meeting of the Hiawatha Land Notre Dame Club at Escanaba last April 22. His son, E. J. Dundon, 
LL.B. '22, is also an active alumnus. "The day after New Year's day in the year 1870, Peter E. Coakley, my cousin, and I started on our journey from Clarksburg, Marquette County, Michigan, to the University of Notre Dame, Indiana. We had a letter of recommendation from our Parish Priest, Rev. F. Bannion to the Rev. Augustus Lemmonnier. "The first twelve miles of the jour­ney from Clarksburg to Negaunee was made by stage coach; from Negaunee to Escanaba a railroad had been recently constructed and we made that part of the journey—65 miles—^by rail. "There was no railroad from Escanaba to Green Bay, Wis. The only means of conveyance was by stage, a distance of about 120 miles. The road was through a primeval forest and the snow lay on the ground three to four feet deep. But the road was well beaten and we made good progress, changing horses frequently. Along the road at regular intervals huts were erected where man and beast could get some refreshments. We arrived at Green Bay the morning of the second day and after a night's rest we boarded the train for Notre Dame, where we arrived safe and sound. "We delivered the letter of intro­duction to the Rev. Father Lemmon­
nier. When he read it he greeted us warmly and made us feel at home by his kindness and solicitude. The classes were not to start for a few-days and he told us to look around and get acquainted. 
"The officers of the University were Verj' Rev. Edward F. Sorin, president of the board of trustees; Very Rev. William Corby, president of the Uni­versity; Rev. A. Lemmonier, Vice-president; Rev. P. W. Condon, prefect of discipline; Rev. A. Granger, prefect of religion; Rev. Timothy Maher, sec-
Father 

retary; Rev. J. C. Carrier, librarian and curator of the museum; Rev. Mr. 
J. A. Zahm, assistant librarian and curator of the museum. 
"After the classes started we gave our attention to studies and soon be­came acquainted with professors T. E. Howard, J. A. Lyons, William Ivers, 
A. J. Stace, D. A. Qark, L. G. Long, Father Louage, Father Carrier and many others. 
"Charles J. Lundy, M. D., was the resident physician. The change from the pure, invigorating air of the Lake Superior region made it necessary to consult Dr. Lundy a few times until I got acclimated and we became well acquainted. We soon took up our real work and began to absorb learn­ing. It became a pleasure to prepare our lessons. The Fathers and other teachers were hard working con­scientious men and the students were genial, upstanding companions. I re­call a few of them;—John D. McCor­mick, P. J. O'Connell, T. P. Wliite, Mark M. S. Foote, C. J. Douge, J. Fin­ley, T. Watson, J. Bowen, J. B. Comer, 
G. L. Reopele, N. S. Mitchell, E. B. Gambee, D. Maloney, T. F. O'Mah­oney, T. A. Ireland, Michael Carr, D. 
J. Hogan and W. P. Breen. 
We bowed and retired amid applause. 1 forget the name of the young lady who decorated me,—but God be with her. 
"One memorable trip was made to the farm by our sun-eying class, under the lead of Prof. Stace. We surveyed the boundary lines of the farm. When the work w-as done w-e returned to'the farm house and par­took of a fine dinner of pork and cabbage and other good things. After 
Sorin greeted by the Indians, 18i2 (Gregori). 
"Of course we had sports and con­tests of skill in those days—baseball, real football, and handball. Hand­ball was good to limber up the joints, but boating on St. Joseph was my favorite muscle builders. We had a boat club of 20 members, three boats, the Santa Maria, the Pinta and the Nina, and we furnished amusement for crowds at commencement time. 
"The last race in which took part was in June, 1872. I was a member of the crew of the Pinta and we won th race. Then we rowed our boat over to the dock where five young ladies, each holding a badge, stood waiting for us. We stepped on the dock facing the ladies and a badge was pinned on each victor's breast. 
a short rest we drove back to the Uni­
versity. 
"During my term the Lemmonier Library was organized. At the first meeting Father Lemmonier presided and I acted as Secretary. But my w-ork at Notre Dame was to acquire an education and to that task I de­voted my energies. In June 1873 I received the degree of Bachelor of Science. 
"Notre Dame was then as it has always been a great school. Any young man seeking a thorough edu­cation makes no mistake when he enrolls as a student at Norte Dame. My work being done, I was ready for the home journey. The evening before I started, with others, I called on 
(Continued on Pajre Forty-Seven) 

From President Eggeman 
(Editor's Note: It is so seldom that the editor is freed from that born-to-blush-unseen complex, that editor­ial modesty is hurriedly thrown to the winds and the following tribute from Judge Eggeman reprinted. It is done as a tribute to the ALUMNUS, not to the editor. The magazine is not the mirror of a personality; it is the mirror of the Association. If enough editorial personality is injected to show that some one is on the ground, working for you,the end of the Editor is sen'ed.) 
Dear Mr. Armstrong: 
Deep down in the heart of every alumnus goes forth a thanksgiving to you and your able assistants in pro­ducing the September ALUMNUS. It stands as a memorial of high tribute to your sincerity. There is always room higher up and you have sensed the necessity of keeping the alumni organization in step with the amaz­ing progress and advancement being made by the old college. 
The contents of this issue manifest a beauty of purpose and symmetry of thought that endears, and I am sure it will be read from cover to cover by every loyal son of the old school, and when its reading is completed, every Notre Dame man will unconsciously find that something within him say­ing: "I am proud I am a Notre Dame man." 
You have in this enlarged publi­cation, which merits the gratitude of Noite Dame men, accepted the posi­tion of leader. Modestly, but certain­ly, because substance is more than show, because the ideals and tradi­tions of Notre Dame control the form, because mind rules matter, be­cause spirit rules all, and I confident­ly predict that the future issues of this magazine, under your capable editor­ship, will be one of the primary causes of keeping aglow in the breasts of the jVlumni, those things which make hearts of Notre Dame men beat faster and truer. Its life is derived from the Notre Dame im­pulse and it will succeed for it is ded­icated to the service of the old Uni­versity. The publication serves to at­tract the attention and focus it upon the pleasant memories of college days at Notre Dame. It weaves a strange and magic spell. Its pres­ence quickens the heart and enslaves it. It bewitches the mind and brain and unknowingly they yield to its 
mastery. And this is as it should be, for after all, attraction is the force that animates life, underlies love, friendship and all human relation­ship. Pray tell me, is there a Notre Dame man who is not anxious and willing to make some sacrifice in part retribution for the many benefits he received by being a student at Notre Dame? .A.I1 of us have a duty, a real obligation to our -A.lma Mater, and we should constantly labor to discharge it to the last full measure of sub­stantial aid and devotion. 
To peruse the monthly ALUMNUS is to refresh the weary, to console the sad, to hearten up the dull and downcast, to increase the interest of Notre Dame men, and by reason thereof the joy of living is immensely augmented. 
The article contributed by Mr. Ha­ley, the efficient business manager, is most convincing in that it requires a real and adroit diplomat to appease and satisfy the demands of Notre Dame men, as well as the other loyal supporters of our wonderful foot-ball teams under the masterful guidance of our beloved Eockne. Mr. Haley is fair and just in the way he is conduct­ing the vast business connected with his department and by reason of his explanations all Notre Dame men and the host of supporters of the teams %vill be better satisfied. All cannot secure reservations on the Fifty-Yard line. 
The editorial appearing in this issue, "Putting away the things of a child," most forcibly portrays the truth. Back in 1S97 to 1901 the Uni­versity with a total enrollment of eleven hundred students including the Minim Department, was but an infant. At the present time with more than three thousand collegiate students it has grown into manhood, with all the duties and obligations pertaining to maturity. Today Notre Dame, under the protection of Our Lady is the greatest Catholic Univer­sity in these United States, and in the near future it will be universally pro­claimed the greatest Catholic Univer­sity in the world. The -Alumni must realize these facts, and as a conse­quence perform their duty to old Alma Mater, for after all, one of the real satisfactions of this life is exper­ienced by the man who does his full duty. Personally, I am convinced 
that the Alumni will answer with enthusiasm every call not only dur­ing this scholastic year, but luring the j-ear.s to ct-me. 
In conclusion, my dear Mr. Arm­strong, I wan-: to extend to you the gratitude and great satisfaction of all Notre Dame men in setting forth so vividly the activities of the different -A.lumm Clubs throughout the coun­try, and I hope that the Secretaries will consider it a privilege to keep you advised of the actions of their respecive organizations. It is a rare treat for us older Notre Dame men to learn of the successes of the men who were in College during our days, and to know that their hearts beat true to the traditions of Notre Dame. 
The September issue of the ALUM­NUS is wonderful and magnificently creditable and under your masterful supervision and leadership, I know that the future issues will excite in the hearts of all Notre Dame men, not only a determination, but an ex­treme pleasure to do their full duty to dear Alma Mater. 
Sincerely, 
J. W. EGGEMAN. 

Bits of Early History of Notre Dame 
(Continued from PaKe Forty-Six) 

Father Granger for a parting bless­ing. He was sick in bed but he bid us come in. .\s I knelt by his bed­side he placed his hand on my head and the pressure of that hand has re­mained with me through life. Father Granger was a saint. 
"I reserved a surprise for my father. I had not told him that I had studied the Irish language under Brother Patrick, professor of Irish. As I was recounting to my father the subjects I had studied I said, "I can read the Irish language." He seemed incredulous, so I got my book of poems in Irish, and read "The Bells of Shandon." When I had finished read­ing I asked him if I had done well. He made no reply, but on looking up I saw a tear glistening in his eye. My father was bom within hearing dis­tance of the real "Bells of Shandon." 
"Mr. Dundon's statement that Notre Dame has always been a great school is incontrovertible. From contact with these early students of the Uni­versity, it seems a merited corroUary that Notre Dame men have always been great men. 
^ Reading Guide to Philosophy 
Prepared by EBV. CHARLES C. MILTNER, C.S.C., PH.B. '11, PH.D., 
Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, Professor of 
It is believed that our alumni have not only not lost the taste for philoso­phy, but that they are actually hun­gering for some good philosophic bread. The following list of books was accordingly prepared. No claim is made that these are the best books —for indi\-idual taste plays too great a part in such judgment—but only that they are without exception good books, recently published, and such as if carefully read would put the read­der au coui-ant with the academic status of Scholastic philosophy today, its position on most of the funda­mental questions, its history and its relation to other currents of thought. 
Possibly the best one to begin with would be Dr. James H. Ryan's "An Introduction to Philosophy" (McMil­lan). Of this volume Professor Lam­precht of Illinois University, wrote: "Problems of the origin, nature and destiny of man, of the relation of man to nature and to God, of the sanctions of morality and the standards for truth and of the existence and nature of God, are treated with a masterly recognition of the difficulties of and the objections to the established Catholic standpoint . . . Other than Catholic readers will find a system of thorough and profound insight, of which they should hasten to take ac­count." 
In "The Catholic Church aiid Phil­osophy" (Calvert Series, MacMillan), Father Vincent McNabb, 0. P., in a very concise yet clear and entertain­ing way, describes the relation of the Church to philosophy in ancient, mediaeval and modern times. It is an effective answer both to the erron­eous notion that Scholastic philosophy belongs to the History of Religion, and the equally mischievous miscon­ception of its being so dominated by dogma as to be bereft of the spirit of free inquiry. A second volume in the same series, "The Catholic Church and the Citizen," by Dr. John A. Ryan, discusses the recently much mooted and often enough perplexing questions of the relations of the Cath­olic citizen to the civil government. The chapter on "Conflicting Loyalties —Church and State" will be especial­ly enlightening and valuable to the average alumnus whose recollections 
of the principles of social ethics may have grown somewhat obscured with the passing years. 
Since the inception of the i-evival of Scholastic philosophy one has heard much of the exalted position of Saint Thomas in the world of philo­sophical thought. At the same time very few of those not specially trained for the work find it possible to read him understandingly either in the original or, for that matter, without guidance, in translation. This diifl­cuJty is lai-gely removed by three books that have recently appeared: 
"The Key to the Study of Saint Thomas," Algiati-Zybura (Herder); "The Philosophy of Saint Thomas," Gilson (Herder); and "Progressive Scholasticism," Bruni-Zybura (Herd­er). The first of these lays bare the essential unity that pervades Saint Thomas' writings. It puts one in touch with the central theme which binds together the really enormous number of questions treated in the Summa, and thus eliminates one's feeling of bewilderment in the pres­ence of his works, and prepares him as nothing else could for the proper understanding both of their method and content. The second volume at­tempts, and with remarkable success, to enter into the actual thought of Aquinas and to set it forth in as sum-mai-y a manner as clearness and in­completeness of detail will permit. It might well be called a compendium of the main theses in the Thomistic sjmthesis. The third volume combines a plea for a study of the historical study of scholasticism with a discus­sion of the value for the modern stu­dent of the exacting method and critical spirit of the older scholastics. It is in some respects an antidote to the exaggerated claims made for the philosophy of the Schoolmen by some of its over-enthusiastic but less illumined advocates. 
Scholastic, or as it is sometimes— though inaccurately—called. Catholic philosophy has got very little atten­tion from the leading exponents of what is roughly classified as modem thought. The reasons for this very real neglect are candidly given by some sixty of these writers them­selves, and collected in a volume en­
Philosophy. 
titled "Present Day Thinkers and the Neiv Scholasticism," by the Rev. Dr. John S. Zybura. Here one is apprised of the attitude of the non-Catholic world toward the philosophy of the Schoolmen. Dr. Zybura joins to these written opinions analyses and surveys of Neo-Scholastic thought contributed by the outstanding scholars of the Western World. The conciliating value of such a woi-k is bound to be veiy great. No well-informed thinker of the present day can afford to be without this remarkable volume. 
It was my original intention in drawing up this brief list of philo­sophical books to exclude any that might be in the nature of a text. But Father McWilliam's "Cosmology" (MacMillan) enters so largely into that field of thought where philosophy and science are supposed to conflict and shows such a fine command of the scientific as well as the philosophical aspects of questions concerning the nature of the physical world that it really deserves to be called to the attention of our readers. For a sim­ilar reason I have included Dr. Ful­ton Sheen's "God and Intelligence." Dr. Sheen's treatment of the con­temporary views of God and of man's ability to know him is of such high quality as to have attracted as much or even more attention from Euro­pean as from American scholars. No volume to our knowledge more ably traces the theoretical background of the essentially anti-intellualistic philosophy of so many of our con­temporary thinkers. 
Much of the pleasure derived from the pursuit of philosophical studies is due to the clash of rival theories and points of view. Two volumes, "Whither .Mankind" (Longmans), edited by Charles A. Beard, and 
"The Malting of the Modem Mind" 
(Houghten, Mifflin Co.) by J. H. Randall, Jr., supply lines of thought which by reason of their divergencies from the Scholastic viewpoint height­en one's interest in the field of philo­sophic speculation and tend to whet one's critical faculties. 
For a sane and penetrating ciiti­cism of the welter of isms in the fields of Psychology and Literature one could scarcely do better than read Mr. 
October, 1929 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
Harvey Wickham's "The Misbehav-sense of humor. iourists," and "The Imptiritans" (The The sub-joined classified list of Dial Press). In these volumes Mr. volumes is added for the sake of Wickham shows that criticism need those who may feel inclined to build not be dry as dust, that it can in fact up a working library in the field of be highly flavored with an effective philosophy. 
BIBLIOGEAPHY OF PHILOSOPHICAL WOEKS 
(Asterisk indicates works by non-Scholastic authors.) 
GENERAL WOEKS 
Gilson, The Philosophy of St. Thomas .A.guinas, Herder Book Co., St. Louis. DeWulf, Philosophy and Civilization in the Middle Ages, Princeton University 
Press, Princeton, N. J. DeWulf, Mediaeval Philosophy, Harvard Univ. Press, New Haven, Conn. Baschab, Manual of Neo-Scholastic Philosophy, Herder, St. Louis. Shallo, Scholastic Philosophy, Peter Eeilly, Philadelphia. 
•Sheldon, Strife of Systems and Productive Duality, Harvard Univ. Press. Donat, The Freedom of Science, Jos. Wagner, N. Y. Windle, Science and Morals and Other Essays, Kenedy, N. Y. St. Thomas Aquinas, Sumnia Contra Gentiles, (Eng. Tr.) Mercier, A Manual of Modem Scholastic Philosophy (general course, 2 vols.), 
Herder, St. Louis. Eyan, Introduction of Philosophy, MacMillans. 
•Cunningham, Problems of Philosophy, Henry Holt & Co. 
•Patrick, Introduction to Philosophy, Houghton Mifflin. Lord, .irmchair Philosophy, America Press. 
HISTOEY OF PHILOSOPHY 
*Ueber\veg, A History of Philosophy (2 vols.). 
•Windlebond, A History of Philosophy, Eand. 
•Falkenberg,
 History of Philosophy, Henry Holt. 

•Zeller,
 History of Greek Philosophy (several vols.), Longmans. 

•Burnett,
 History of Greek Philosophy, Black. Stoeckel, History of Philosophy (1st vol. only tr.), Longmans, Green & Co. Turner, History of Philosophy, Ginn & Co. 


*Cushman, History of Philosophy (2 vols.) (recent). 
•Sorley,
 a History of English Philosophy, Putnam. 

•Hick,
 Stoic and Epicurean, Scribners. DeWulf, History of Mediaeval Philosophy, Longmans. 

•Eogers,
 History of American and English Philosophy Since 1800, MacMillan. Glen, History of Philosophy, Herder. 


LOGIC 
Coffey, The Science of Logic (2 vols.), Longmans, Green & Co. 
Joyce, Principles of Logic, Longmans, Green & Co. 
•Cunningham, Textbook of Logic, MacMillan. 
'^Dotterer, Beginners' Logic, MacMillan. Crumley, Logic: Deductive and Inductive, MacMillan. 
PSYCHOLOGY 
*Readings in General Psychology, Eobinson & Eobinson, Chicago Univ. Press. Maher, PsycMogy, Longmans, Green & Co. Hill, Psychology, MacMillan. 
•Seashore,
 Introduction to Psychology, MacMillan. Gruender, Experimental Psychology (2 vols.), Loyola Univ. Press. 

•Muensterberg,
 Psychology and Life, Houghton Alifflin Co. 


•Muensterberg,
 Psychology and Industrial Efficiency, Houghton Mifflin Co. 

•Swift,
 Psychology and the Day's Work, Scribners. 


•Warren, Human Psychology, Houghton Mifflin. 
•Watson, Psychology From the Standpoint of a Behaviorist, Lippincotts. Windle, Vitalism and Scholasticism, Herder. Gruender, Free Will (Monogiaph), Herder. Rickaby, Free Will and Four English Philosophers, Burns & Gates. 
(Continued on FolIowinK PaKo) 
N. D. Active in N. C. C. M. 
The National Council of Catholic Men is holding its ninth annual con­vention in Fort Wayne, Indiana, Oct­ober 20, 21 and 22. It is more than gratifying to see the prominent part Notre Dame men are playing in mak­ing it a success. 
Et. Rev. John F. Noll, D. D., 
LL. D. '15, is celebrant of the open­ing Mass, and will deliver an address at the public mass meeting on Sunday afternoon. 
John W. Eggeman, president of the Alumni Asociation, is the presiding officer at the morning session on Mon­day. C. M. Niezer will speak on the "Purpose of a Catholic Community Center" at the luncheon meeting. 
Msgr. Charles Thiele is honorary chairman of the Monday afternoon session. 
Tuesday morning Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, will address the conven­tion on "Catholic Advantages in Edu­cation." Harry Hogan will preside at this meeting. 
At the closing banquet, Tuesday evening, Hon. William P. Breen will deliver an address "An Ancient Cath­olic Post" and K. K. Rockne will address the banquet on "The Influence of Clean Athletics on Character." 
Messrs. Breen, Eggeman, Niezer, Hogan, Joseph Hutzell and Harry Flannery are on the executive committee for the event. 
Rockne Addresses A. A. U. 
K. K. Rockne, '14, director of ath­letics, was the principal speaker on September 16 at a banquet in the Sherman hotel, Chicago, honoring Avery Brundage, president of the National and Central A. A. A. Us. At the meeting, Fred L. Steers, '11, former Notre Dame track star, was re-elected secretary and treasurer of the Central A. A. U. Among the track and field stars present for the meeting was W. Gibbons Uffendell, former middle distance member of the N. D. track squad. 
Laiv College Active 
Dean Konop announces that fifty-one men have entered the first year law classes under the new require­ment of three years of college work, in effect this year. Dean Konop and Professor Manion have begun a series of seminars for the senior lawyers, discussing the legal and governmental affairs current. The Dean is also working on the Alumni Directory for the College of Law. 

BIBLIOGEAPHY OF PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 
(Continued from PrecedinK Page) 
Wassman, Instinct and Intelligence, Herder. 
Wassman, Psychology of Ants and of Higher Animals, Herder. 
Muckermann, The Humanizing of the Brute, Herder. 
Miller, General Psychology, Wagner. 
METAPHYSICS Coffey, Ontology, Longmans, Green & Co. Eickaby, General Metaphysics, Longmans. 
EPISTEMOLOGY Coffey, Epistemology (2 vols.), Longmans, Greene & Co. Eickaby, First Principles, Longmans, Greene & Co. *Eeid, Knoivledge and Tnith, MacMillans. *Holt, Tlie Neiu Realism, MacMillans. *Drake, Essays in Critical Realism, MacMillans. *Perry, Present Philosophical Tendencies, MacMillans. *Eobinson, The Mind in the Making, Harpers. Windle, Facts and Theories, Herder. 
COSMOLOGY Windle, Tlie Church and Science, Herder. Dwight, Thoughts of a Catholic Anatomist, Longmans, Grieene and Co. Husslein, Evolution and Social Progress, Kenedy. Windle, A Century of Scientific Tlwught and Other Essays, Herder. Gerard, The Old Riddle and the Newest Ansiver (On Evolution), Longmans, Greene & Co. Frank, The Theory of Evolution in the Light of Facts, Herder. Mercier, (see Volume One of Manual). 
THEODICY Joyce, Natural Theology, Longmans, Greene & Co. Brosnan, God and Reason, Fordham Univ. Press (contains ample Bibliog.) Schumacher, The Knowableness of God, Catholic Univ. Press. St. Thomas Aquinas, Summa Contra Gentiles (Eng. Tr.) 
H. E. S., The God of Our Fathers, Eevell, Chicago. (Popular Treatise.) 
ETHICS Cronin, The Science of Ethics (2 vols.). Herder. Mercier (see Vol. 2 of Manual). Eickaby, Aquinas Ethicus (2 vols.) (Trans, of Parts of Summa TheoL of Saint 
Thomas.) Longmans, Greene & Co. Hill, Ethics, General and Special, MacMillans. Eoss, Ethics, Devin-Adair Company. Eickaby, Moral Philosophy, Longmans, Greene & Co. Ming, Data of Modem Ethics Examined, Benzigers. Tlie Great Encyclical Letters of Leo XIII, Benzigers. Woods, A First Book in Ethics, Joseph Wagner. 
*Drake, Problems of Conduct, Houghton Mifflin Co. (This work contains copious bibliographies of modem works.) Miltner, The Elements of Ethics, MacMillan. 
SPECIAL TEEATISES ON ETHICAL SUBJECTS Coppens, Moral Principles and Medical Practice, Benzigers. Mausbach, Catholic Moral Teaching and Its Antagonists, J. Wagner. Eyan, The Church and Socialism (And other essays). Catholic Univ. Press. Husslein, Work, Wealth and TFajres, Matre & Co.; The World Problem, Kenedy; 
Democratic Industry, Kenedy. 

Hull, A Practical Philosophy of Life (2 vols.) (paper); The Formation of 
Character; Collapses in Adult Life; Why Should I Be Moral?; Man's 
Great Concern; The Management of Life. All by Herder. 
Cuthbert, Christian Ideals in Social Life, Washbume. 
Windle, Science and Morals, Kenedy. 
Bampton, Christianity and Reconstruction, Herder. 
McNamara, American Democracy and CatlioHc Doctrine, International Catholic 
Truth Society. 
Cotillion of Charm 

This is the pleasing title' of the 1929 Sophomore Cotillion pro­gressing with" all its usual excite­ments and anticipations in the Class of '32. Jack Crawford's band has been chosen to play. 
Interhall Debating 

The • freshmen halls are being organized by the Wranglers Club to debate for the Victor Lemmer ('26) trophy, question not announced. 
"Dome" Photographing 

Editors of the 1930 Dome are rounding up seniors and members of the faculty for photographs. The Eussell Studios again_have the con­tract. The old Carroll Hall refectory is the campus studio. 
Student Trips 

Wisconsin and Southern California games on Soldier Field have been officially designated as "student trips" by the Student Activities Council. Students are required to have permission from home to attend all games, official and unofficial. 
Band Looks Good 

Although the University band was not prepared or equipped to make the Indiana trip. Director Joseph Casa­santa has one of the University's finest bands in the making, and the Chicago games will see it in action. Many good men were lost by gradua­tion, but these holes have been plugged up by an influx of unexpected talent. Henry Tholen, the leader of last year's band, will again vdeld the baton. 
And while on the topic of music, Mr. Casasanta has a dance orchestra, the "Jugglers," which is open for engagements, and if it compares with last year's organization, it is a clever outfit. 
The Publicity Season 

Hardly a popular magazine of news interest is published in the fall with­out some Notre Dame mention. A recent issue of Collier's contained quite a write-up of Capt. John Law by Eing Lardner, and the same issue gave Notre Dame prominent mention in an article by Grantland Eice. Prank Wallace had a short story of football in the same issue. Frank also had a long article on schedule making in a recent issue of the Saturday Evening Post, in which many critics of Notre Dame could invest with profit. 
214571 

October, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
lllllltllllllllMIDtlKllllllltltllltlllltlll 
IIIIIIDIIIIIIIIMII IIIIDIKIIIIIItl 
-B 

EDITORIAL 
ISIinimiitiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimii 
TEETH 

^^ONTINUING the theme of growing up, the Associa­f tion is about to cut its teeth. ^--^ Soft chewing on the various forms of nourish­ment that have been prescribed for the growing Association 
isn't putting enough corpuscular content into the body. 
Football tickets have placed the first imprint of ivory on the hands that feed them. The trouble isn't a disregard of the old proverb. It's trying to feed off-schedule. 
"Dues paid by August 1" means just that. Neither the Association nor the Athletic Association has a force sufficient to continue making entries of dues paid after the sale of tickets begins. And the date gives alumni two months in which to pay their dues. If your tickets aren't where you think they should be, and your dues are paid, check up your stubs for the date. And when the ticket sale opens August 1, no matter how inconvenient financially it is, you can't expect the same ser\'ice on Sept. 30. A lot of money orders flow through the old P. 0. in two months. 
Now comes the prospect of cutting the ^visdom teeth. The growth in the Association has made the per capita cost of the members considerably higher. Since the Asso­ciation w.ns founded, a large percentage of dead timber has been carried in the hope that through some mysterious thaw the sap of understanding would restore life. And it is a happy comment that a lot of branches are blooming now that looked badly frosted when the Alumni Office first chanced upon them. 
But—blooming as many are—the surplus is too great to make a fair burden for the enlightened. Which leaves the regrettable problem of trimming the family tree. 
Threats that the Association might make are neither desirable nor effectual. What will be suggested at the next meeting of the Board, however, is that those whose dues have not been paid for 1928-29 or for the current year be removed from the mailing list of the ALUMNUS. This, unfortunately, means that they will be removed from most of the contacts with Notre Dame—^football ticket applica­tions. Religious Bulletins, special features, and the alumni magazine itself, by which they receive regular news of Notre Dame, the friends they made at Notre Dame, the professors that taught them, the Notre Dame activities in their communities, the business opportunities, the new developments in their field from the same viewpoint that guided their training, and a hundred personal things of interest that no other source can give them. 
If some of the figures of speech in the foregoing treatise have been mixed, here are some figures that are not: Annual dues are five dollars, or more! 
SPIRIT IS UP 

r^EARS that the football games away from home 
r/ might dampen campus ardor are disappearing -'• rapidly. Notre Dame spirit, that elusive quality that, like the Orphean lyre, moves mountains and brings^ tears from stones, seems stronger than ever. 
Faculty reports indicate that the classes are more] smartly aggressive than in the past several years. The", fields are crowded with interhall teams. The tulletjn, boards are bending beneath notices from all knowVi',; and,' 
illlltlllltllllMllltl 

several unknown, forms of campus organization. Joe Casasanta has an 83-piece Band marching up and down whatever space on the campus is available. The Scholastic is suffering g^rowing pains from large overdoses of news in the first two issues. 
As a result, the professors seem snappier and happier than in less encouraging years. 
Faculty and student body are going more than half way this year. Contact with alumni will be more frequent than ever. You'd better get your own spirit up to meet them. 
•-•-•-•  
MR. ROCKNE  
y^  T this time of year, particularly, Notre Dame men  
y  ^  quite generally add to their other prayers, "Thank  
•^  •'­  God for Mr. Rockne."  

It is understood of course that Notre Dame was founded and in reality off to a pretty good start before Mr. Rockne came. An old document that just reached the OfBce shows that cricket was abandoned in favor of football in 1860. And there is much of glory and much of color in Notre Dame's academic and athletic history before Knute K. Rockne took the reins. 
But "Rock" has gilded the athletic lily and perfumed the academic rose. Publicity and new conditions following the war suddenly raised college football from its molehill to the current mountain that it is. .\nd when it was raised, there on the pinnacle was, and is, Mr. Rockne. 
He isn't there by blind popular acclaim. Football is one climb where there isn't plenty of room at the top. He's there because he has stepped purposely and steadily from level to level just about two steps ahead of the other climbers. 
"Rock" is a Notre Dame man. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1914 after a brilliant career in athletics. He remained as a chemistry instructor and assistant to Jesse Harper. All his training, all his traditions, all his aims are Notre Dame's. That is very probably why Mr. Rockne has had so much success at Notre Dame. 
That is undoubtedly why Notre Dame men thank God for Mr. Rockne. The ALUMNUS wishes to get this word of appreciation in before a successful season can discount it as "fan mail." 
NOTRE DAME'S CATHOLICITY ^CATHOLICITY is here used in the sense of uni-I versality. A young lady employed at the University ^—* recently remarked that her connection, mentioned to 
a stranger, almost invariably brought out the fact that a brother, cousin or close friend, of the stranger had attended Notre Dame. This situation gives the idea that Notre Dame men are legion. Whereas, in number, we are com­paratively few. 
Most of us know the truth. We know first of all that Notre. I^ame men are proud of Notre Dame and talk Notre batoe-'We^kiiwithat it makes no difference whether we are'a"Tat Kappa Spsilon or whether we are a Medic or a 
• Dent \"K Notre ;Dame man" is the "be-all and the end-all." ° : "'iWhat'jno-H.oS'us forget is that thousands of other people .know; we are Notre Dame men, gauging Notre Dame by our 
activities. \ \ • • •'. ! 1 
o^  TH E  NOTR E  DAM E  ALUMNU S  October, 1929  
B«(l(Mrt»ltM(IIMt(MIHUIHIIt»lt(tltMttMQ..,.  >ltl>lllltlMll»llli  ATH • •llllllltlllllllMltlDllllllllltMIMIIIIItLETICS^:   llllttlMIIIIIKIliailllllllllt  "H  

..m 

Notre Dame Defeats Indiana 14 to 0 
BY JOHN KIENER 

A "one-man" team, they said, after decision of the referee, Fred Gardner, and made shreds of the Indiana line. Jack Elder's duet of illustrious runs that prevented it from being counted. The total yardage gained from 
for touchdowns to help defeat the Toward the latter part of the first scrimmage, 351 yards, is but a little Hoosiers of Indiana, 14 to 0, Oct. 5 quarter, the second-team had worked criterion of the total strength of the the ball down to the eight yard line. Rockets. The defensive power is 
on the downstaters' greensward. 
With it third down, Bockne then used aptly shown in the figures that It's true. Elder rode the Crimson-
a bit of strategy and pushed- in Indiana totalled only 83 yards from high and wide, but it must not be Carideo and Kaplan. A quick pass scrimmage. 
forgotten that there are three other that caught the Hoosiers unawares That's a most pleasant thing to men in any coach's backfield. resulted, but the officials decided that think of, considering that the 
Kaplan took Carideo's pass outside of 
But for once we must give all credit Hoosiers were able to make first down 
the end-zone. It was Indiana's ball 
to this fleet back who tore around only three times during the entire 
then, and the last chance the shock 
right end in the second quarter, made contest. Indiana's initial first down 
troops had to score, as immediately 
a beautiful cut-back close to center, came late in the second quarter, this 
following. Rock sent in the main 
and iinally eluded three Indianans offensive drive ending futilely with an 
corps. 
for the first points of the fray. incomplete pass over the goal line. Lateral passes appeared to be the 
In the third quarter, the Ken-A strong team, well-balanced on 
mainstay of the menu that was served 
tuckian repeated his scoring proce­both the defense and offense, is the dure, plunging through left tackle, combination of Rockets Knute Rockne 
so pleasingly to Pat Page's squad by Eockne's Rockets. Although only 
ripping through a stubborn secon­has assembled for the entertainment dary, veering suddenly off to the right three of ten attempted passes of his admirers. 
 were 

and speeding down the field past the completed they amounted to a total of Suitable reserves and shock troops 
Hoosier backs with only the safety 60 yards. Indiana's five successes to down the are 
man, Balay, in his wake. A sudden totalled only 69 yards.  wear opponents on 
hand and we look for a hopeful sea­burst of speed and Balay's hearty 
What the fans saw at Indiana was 

son. The N. D. men were fast and in­lunge was short by inches. Elder undoubtedly
 a minority of the Notre 

teresting in their major debut Oct. 
romping on to a touchdo^vn over his 
Dame plays and plans for the season. 
favorite distance of 60 yards. 5th and we will be patiently watch­
Whatever Rockne has secretly 
ing them for future developments. 
We mustn't forget the splendid planned for the other three of his One may expect to see other play­
work done by the starting team, com­backfield, besides Jack Elder, will be ers, besides those who starred against 
posed entirely of reserve material. opened shortly, that's certain. 
Indiana, shine in the near future. 
Mind you, Indiana was unable to 
Joe Savoldi and Moon MuUins are 

We're hoping that they are being kept make a single first down during that hard to choose between for first in reserve until the vital moment. 
initial quarter when Rockne had honors at the fullback .position. occasion to present his 1929 edition Savoldi carried the ball the majority The entire line. Captain Law out­of shock troops. of the time in the first quarter and standing, is one to conjure with. They 
The starters were even so close to gained ground repeatedly. MuUins compose the "silent partners" of 
 was 

a touchdo\vn that it merely a alternated with Elder, principally. Rockne's company of stars. 
XJA^LAJL a % Ji«» 9 « ^«j aX.'L^e «i. e « a « e » « o «'• - « « r.. 
' J 

^ ^ < t ^. i-r -i « f .f f « ^ * f ? f ^ 5 . , , , t , » 5 , , » Jl 
October, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
MlllilllilltliittllllMlllllM»llllMlllHlllllllll||MlinillllinilllMMtlll*lltM**iiHlllltllMIIMi 
a 

^THE ALUMNI:  
IIIIMtl  III1*II1I  Illllllllllll  
^  ff^ar  Memorial Plea  

(Ed. Note: The Alumni Association and the University are obviously and admittedly in need of all the financial assistance that alumni or outside sources can contribute. Nevertheless, the following letter contains an appeal that we feel must be passed on, in the hope that someone among the readers of the ALUMNUS may be in a position to make possible the inclu­sion of Notre Dame's World War dead in this Legion Memorial Build­ing, among that heroic fellowship ) 
Copy A 
September 13th, 1929. Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, President, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
My dear Father O'Donnell: 
You probably read in the news papers of the dedication on August 7th in Paris of America's great memorial to the Commander-in-Chief, officers and msn of the American Expeditionary Forces in the World War. 
Pursuant to the vote of our Board of Directors, including General Per­shing and Laurence V. Benet, whom I believe you have the pleasure of knowing, I have the honor of extend­ing to the University of Notre Dame an invitation to place in the building a bronze tablet commemorating the valor and sacrifice of the Notre Dame alumni who served and gave their lives in the World War. In every division of the A. E. F. were Notre Dame men, and the record of their leadership, achievement and sacrifice are well known to all of us who took an active part in the great struggle. Our Directors feel that this American memorial will be incomplete without this recognition. 
In this building we are reuniting once again all the component parts of the A. E. F. The Army, Navy and Marine Corps each has a memorial salon, as do the various auxiliary services, such as the Young Men's Christian Association, the Salvation Army, Knights of Columbus, Jewish Welfare Board and the American Field Service. 
Throughout the building we have endeavored to perpetuate in painting and sculpture the high points of America's participation. The building will also contain one of the finest war libraries and collections extant. It mil also serve a very practical pur­
^^^•BHHHHBJ 
S^^&^HHII^^^K^ 
Bj9I^J^f^^^^^^^^^^^^^l 
^^^^1 
w^K^MB^^k
MM"^s ^^^^sj^fysSSo^
B 'j?P';%y^^gSii 
H T^ -s^. ^^^^SS?f^^ 
M 4 •yh^^^^C^^s^'^Maks.r^i"***™ 
Hl'^""'' ^^^^H^HiKi3^Hii 
r^'^a 
H'^•fci*> *--^^HPVv li^ 
t^^^^K '"^^^^H< ^fetiwy^^^y ^^ ^ 1|^^ 
'^»i^^a| 
KM?! ^kF -^^ 
I^^B^^iTuT^ — 3 
^H^^^^^^^^^R^^^^^^H 
Field Mass—Memorial Door, Sacred Heart Church 
pose by providing a much needed .American center in Paris. 
There is being built in the building a good sized auditorium and the doors will always be open to all patriotic American organizations for meetings, conferences and cultural gatherings. 
It may also have an endowed in­formation bureau where Americans visiting Paris may obtain accurate and disinterested information with­out charge. There will also be held in the building daily classes for Ameri­can children residing in Paris, where those purely American branches such as American History, civics, etc., not 

in the curriculum of the French schools will be taught. The building ^vill also be used as the Headquarters for the organization charged with the decoration each year of the 30,000 graves of the American war dead, and the Headquarters of the FIDAC, embracing the veteran organizations of all the Allied countries, which has as its primary object, the promotion of international good will and permanent peace. 
This memorial has been made pos­sible by the generous contributions from the organizations previously mentioned and by members of the American Legion and patriotic citi­zens throughout the country. Each organization represented is financing its own part in the project. The cost of the bronze tablet would be approx­imately §2500. 
It may be that this is a matter that should be taken up with the President of your Alumni. In the absence of that knowledge, however, I am addressing the invitation to the Uni­versity, thru you as its head, feeling sure that you will take the proper steps to assure the desired result. 
With cordial felicitations from our Board, I am Sincerely yours, 
(Sig.) Lt. Colonel Francis E. Drake, President 
r Deaths 
JAMES P. FOGARTY, LL.B. '00, died at his home, 38 E. Mt. Pleasant St., Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, on Sunday, September 22, after an ill­ness of several months. Mr. Fogarty was formerly president of the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia and active in the Association. He was a prominent lawyer, being famous in the east for his knowledge of con­veyances and building and loan plans. He was sixty-five years old and had practiced law in Philadelphia for thirty years. 
Mr. Fogarty was also a leader in politics. Last year he was a delegate to the Democratic National conven­tion in Houston. He was past dis­trict deputy of the Knights of Colum­bus and a former member of the board of managers of the American Catholic Historical Society. 

Mr. Fogarty is survived by his 

wife, Mi-s, Rose Fogarty, and five 
children, Nancy, Hosemary, Joan and 
James Jr. 
—«— 

The Congregation of Holy Cross 
was saddened by the death of the 
Very Bev. Gilbert Francais, C.S.C, 
for 32 years Superior General. His 
death occurred on September 15 at 
St. Joseph's Farm, where he has re­
sided for several years. He was 83 
years old. 
Father Francais became head of 
the Congregation in 1893, at which 
time he resided.in France, succeeding 
Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. He 
was exiled from France in 1902 and 
came to Notre Dame. His sacerdotal 
golden jubilee was celebrated in 1921. 
Four years ago Father Francais re­
linquished the duties of his office and 
was succeeded by Veiy Rev. James 
W. Donahue, C.S.C, the present Su­perior General. Father Francais was given the title of Honorary Superior General by the Pope. He was buried with an impressive Requiem High Mass on Sept. 19. 
Brother Onesimus, C.S.C, 92 years old, former steward of the University, died at the Community House on Sep­tember 26. Brother Onesimus (James Hoogland) was bom in Jacksonville, 111., June 3, 1837. 
Births 

MR. and MRS. D. J. O'CONNOR, '05, Chicago, are parents of a son. 
Frank Hayes, '14, writes, "There is quite a bit of rejoicing in Lafayette, Ind., I understand, over the arrival of CHARLES L. VAUGHAN, JR., on July 26. This is the fifth little Vaughan." 
"The Night Cry," a new journal edited by ANSELM D. inLLER, '25, arrived just too late for the last edi­tion of the ALUMNUS, bringing in no uncertain phraseology the out­standing birth in Roanoke, Va., on Sept. 3 of Anselm Dennis, Jr. Inter­views with all relatives indicate that the event was fully anticipated and appreciated. 
MR. and MRS.* JOHN HILLEN­BRAND, '25, are the parents of a girl, bom Sept. 25, in Batesville, Ind. 
The arrival of CLIFFORD ALLEN WARD in Fort Wayne journalistic circles on July 13 was kept back from the public last month. Young Mr. Ward is thriving under the paternal hand of Cliff, '23, and HARRY FLANNERY, '24, his god-father. 
MR. and MRS. EUGENE G. FAR­RELL, '28, announce the arrival of Stephen John Farrell on Friday, September 13, at Brooklyn, N. Y. 
MR. and MRS. EUGENE SMO­GOR, '22, are the parents of a son. 
.» « 
I Engagements | 
* • Mr. and Mrs. Michael J. Kearney, Newark, N. J., have announced the engagement of their daughter, Kath­leen, to FRANK A. MILBAUER, '25, 17 Halstead St., Newark. 
-•Announcement has been made of the engagement and approaching marriage of Miss Dorothy Sullivan, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Marter, 732 E. Haney Ave., South Bend, and SEBASTIAN THOMAS BERNER, '27, South Bend. 
«— 
Maniages 

«— 
Several things went wrong with 
this department last month, none of 
which, fortunately, stands to per­
manently injure the institution of 
matrimony, if I may split an infini­
tive in my dismay. 
It is, however, with sincere regret, that too optimistic a report of the marriage of ANDY SLEIGH last month, is recalled to be amended. Andy suffered an automobile accident between the original date announced and the date of press for the ALUM­NUS, and the wedding was postponed to October 8. 
The Holi/ Cross Courier, the spir­ited and exemplary neighbor of the ALUMNUS, added the following St. Mary's-Notre Dame weddings to the summer score: 
Muriel Simpson, '27, to EDWIN LEO RYAN, '27, in Chicago on May 22. 
Elizabeth Helfrich, '27, to JAMES ROBERT GRAHAM, '26, in York, Pa., on June 6. 
Esther Bailat, '24, to BERNARD WILLIAM LEY, '25, in Akron, O., on June 25. 
Margaret Kahl, '27, to HENRY CHARLES WURZER, '25, of Detroit, in Davenport, Iowa, on July 27. 
COLUMBUS CONBOY, '19, and Miss Anne Blincoe, of Mayfield, Ky,, were married in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame on September 30 by REV. JOHN G. REYNOLDS, '19. Mr. and Mrs. Conboy left for a four weeks' motor tour of the west, and are now at home in Louisville, where Columbus is engaged in architecture. 
A letter from CULLEN BURKE, '23, Newport, N. Y., reveals the fact he recently returned from a wedding trip through the New England states. 
Mrs. Thomas Cunningham has is­sued invitations for the wedding of her daughter, Mary Jane, to THOM­AS CHARLES DONOVAN on Sat­urday, October 26, Holy Family Church, Chicago. 
A letter from BOB SHEEHAN, C.S.C, '21, gives the data on the mar­riage of his brother Joe, '24, who was married on Sept. 2 to Miss Anna Marie Manning, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. G. Manning of Bismarck, N. 
D. Mr. and Mrs. Sheehan are living in Valley City, N. D., where Joe is assistant district engineer for the State Highway Dept. 
J. CLIFTON MCINTOSH, '24, was married to Miss Estelle Cecilia Har­rington in St. John's Church, Omaha, Neb., on June 29. Clif and his wife are living in Minneapolis, where he is connected with the United States Radiator Co. 
Another summer wedding of the Class of '25 escaped the Editor last month,—that of ROBERT KILIAN GORDON to Miss Elizabeth Anne Weiss, daughter of Mr. Gerson J. Weiss, in Fort Wayne on August 10. 
Mr. Patrick James Hanlon an­nounces the marriage of his daughter Patricia to MARTIN FRANCIS SULLIVAN, '25, on Tuesday, Oct. 1, in Louisville, Ky. Mike is editor of the Kentucky Club's pioneer paper. 
VINCENT L. GOULET, '26, was married to Miss Henrietta Johnson on August 12 in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. Vince is with the Hal­colmb Steel Co., 608 W. Adams St., Chicago. 
The predicted wedding of the Class Secretary for '27 materialized on Sept. 17, when one hundred guests attended the marriage of Miss Emma Bekerich to EDMUND J. DE CLEBCQ in St. Joseph's Church, South Bend. JEROME DE CLERCQ, '28, Chicago, a brother of the groom, was best man. 
CHARLES WILLIAMS, '28, was married to Miss Clementine Pierce of South Bend on July 23. ANTHONY BENNING, a classmate, was best man. Charley and Mrs. Williams are living in Ely, Oregon, where Charley is engaged in the lumber business. 
JOHN 'J. VAN DEVENTER, JR., Yonkers, N. Y., e.x-'28, editor of "Advertising Abroad," was married to Miss Beatrice M. Barry of City Island, on Sept. 10. John and Mrs. Van Deventer are enjoying a four months' honeymoon in Europe. 
JEROME WILLIS RAYBURN, '28, was married to Miss Lillian Kane of Chicago in the Log Chapel on Sept. 
25. Following a wedding breakfast at the Oliver Hotel, they left for a honeymoon in Detroit and Cleveland. 
RUSSELL SMTH, '28, was mar­ried to Miss Dorothy Scherer in an impressive ceremony in St. Mary's Church, Sandusky, 0., Sept. 19. After a wedding trip in the East, Mr. and Mrs. Smith are living in Buffalo, where Russell is engaged in engineer­ing work for the government. The bride is a graduate of Notre Dame in Cleveland. 
-•­

Mrs. Marie Ellen Noonan an­nounces the marriage of her daughter Marguerite Ellen to AUGUST M. GRAMS, on October 9, in Ardmore, Oklahoma. 
Personals 

As a general note of interest, JIM SHOCKNESSY, '28, has veiy kindly sent to the Editor a list of the Notre Dame fellows taking graduate work at Harvard, which he has been able to compile since returning there this Fall. In Law are: PAUL FLEM­ING, '26; JOE WHALEN, '27; BILL KEARNEY, JIM CULLEN, DICK PHELAN, FRANK FLANNAGAN and JOE DIRE, of '28; BILL KRIEG, BART McHUGH, LARRY CARTON, JIM ROY, JIM BRADY, JOHN LEDDY, TED GRIFFIN, FRANK McANANEY, JOE MOR­RELL, DICK MOODY, JOHN GOS­SELIN and SAM COLARUSO, of '29. In Business are: BILL LEAHY, CARROLL PINKLEY, HAROLD RUPPEL, JERRY BIGGE and MARK FITZGERALD, of '28, and 
VIC HART and RALPH ZIMMER­MAN of '29. In Medicine are: MIKE MURRAY, '26; MARK FAR­RELL, BEN FRANKLIN and BOB DOCKWEILER, of '28. In the graduate Arts and Sciences are: JOHN McMANMON, '28, and BOB BEENNAN, '29. Jim also had the addresses, but didn't have time to send them along, so if you want to reach any of these fellows and don't know where they are, write Jim, 2 Perkins Hall, Cambridge, Mass. The requirements of the Harvard gradu­ate schools and the large number of 
N. D. men there are indication of the academic status of Noti-e Dame. 
Before 1880 .Mark M. Foote, 501 City Hall, Chicago Illinois. Dix Reunion '78, '79—Next June! 
1880-1885 

Prof. Robt. M. Anderson, Stevens Inst. 
of Tech, Hoboken, N. J. 
Dix Reunion '80, '81—Ne.^ June! 
It is also '80's 50-Year Reunion! 
1886 

Michael 0. Bums, 338 S. Second St., 
Hamilton, Ohio. 
1887 

Hon. Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, 
Michigan. 
1888 

John L. Heineman, Connersville, Ind. 
1889 
Hon. James V. O'Donnell, 105 N. 
Clark St, Chicago, HI. 

MR. and MRS. R. A. O'HARA were visitors at Notre Dame on Sept. 19, returning to their home in Hamil­ton, Montana, after a trip to Europe. It was Mr. O'Hara's first visit to the campus in 13 years. Mr. O'Hara's brother. Rev. Edwin O'Hara, was a member of the summer school faculty at the University last summer. 
1890-1893 
Louis P. Chute, 7 University Ave, 
Minneapolis, Minn. 
1894 

Hugh A. O'Donnell, The New York 
Times, New York City. 
1895 

Eustace Cullinan, Sr, 860 Phelan 
BIdg, San Francisco, Calif. 

ME. and MRS. FRANK WOLF DAVIS, Constantino, Mich., enjoyed a trip through the west this summer, which included visits with Mr. and Mrs. SAMUEL WALKER in Seattle; Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. DEMPSEY in Tacoma, and the Class Secretary in San Francisco. All, Mr. Davis indi­cates, are well and have achieved a prominence that reflects credit upon Notre Dame. M. J. McGARRY, Los Angeles, was out of the city on bus­iness when Mr. and Mrs. Davis were there. 
Mr. Walker has been chairman of the State Republican Committee of Washington, in addition to conducting a wholesale grocery business, and his political activities may keep him from the 35-year Reunion of the '95ers next June, but Mr. Cnllinan and Mr. Dempsey axpect to come east for it. 
ALFRED W. FUNKE is engaged in the stock and bond business in San Francisco. 
HON. ARTHUR P. HUDSON is starting his second 8-year term as Judge of the Circuit Court, Charles­ton, W. Va. He is much respected by the legal and fraternal circles and the citizens of Charleston. Judge and 
. Mrs. Hudson enjoyed a vacation in Atlantic City this summer and attended the state bar convention at White Sulphur Springs. 
MERL PRITCHARD, Staunton, Va., retired, visited his birthplace, Grayson, Ky., this summer, and visited Judge Hudson enroute. 
DANIEL P. MURPHY has been in ill health for some time. He is now in Madison, New Jersey; Greene street is the address. 
1896 

William P. Boms, 327 WIflard Ave, Michigan City, Ind. 
1897 

Rev. John MacNamara, 16 Elm St, Garden City, L. I , N. Y. Dix Reunion Next June! 
1898 

F. Henry Wnrzer, 1632 Buhl Bldg, 
Detroit, Michigan. Dix Reunion Next June! 
1899 

Dr..Joseph F. Dnane, 418 Jefferson BIdg, Peoria, llUnois. Dix Reunion Next June! 
1900 

Francis O'Shaughnessy, 10 S. La Salle 
St, Chicago, Illinois. Dix Reunion Next June! The Class of 1900 has never taken 

up much ALUMNUS space, compara­tively, yet how gratifying to see it so high up in the list of contributors. In the Class of 1900, exclusive of Law, there were ten Classical gradu­ates, two iii Science, and three in Pharmacy. Several of the first men­tioned found their life work in the Lord's laneyard, namely JAMES H. McGINNIS, class president; JOHN 
M. BYRNE, VINCENT D. DWYEE, PATRICK J. DWAN, and HUGH S. GALLAGHER. It is sad to record that two of these have been called to 
THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1929 
their reward. John Byrne, after a 
successful course in Kenrick Sem­
inary, St. Louis, devoted his career 
as a priest to the wide spaces of 
Texas. He was scarcely well estab­
lished in his field of labor when God 
called him to Himself. John was or­
dained in 1903. 
"Ordained also in 1903, Dec. 19, 
Pat Dwan became pastor in a short 
time in Gagetown, Mich. In 1921 he 
was called to organize the new parish 
of St. Cecilia in the rapidly grooving 
metropolis of Detroit. Eager to be 
with his flock for Christmas Day, he 
got up from a sick bed in the hospital, 
had to return when the day was over, 
died January 6, 1925. It is worth 
recording that the priest appointed 
as executor made a surprising dis­
covery among Father Dwan's effects 
of a considerable stock of poetical 
remains, printed and in manuscript. 
To those who were acquainted Father 
Dwan's versatility in poetical inspira­
tion as exemplified in the Scholastic 
of 1899—1900 this would be natural. 
Father Dwan is now known among 
his clerical brethren of the Diocese 
of Detroit as "The Unknown Poet." 
May he and Father Byrne rest in 
peace. 
"James H. McGinnis was a boy from Boston who somewhere caught the Manhattan spirit and studied for the Archdiocese of New York. He was ordained in Rome, whence he returned in 1904. For several years, Dr. McGinnis was a diocesan mis­sionary, where he made good use of the oratorical power he so often exhibited at Notre Dame. After a 
• time spent as assistant in the Metrop­olis he was appointed to his present incumbency, St. John's Church, Goshen, N.Y. Dr. McGinnis has %-isited bis Alma Mater several times, always ready to pull off a good hoax, so much in the spirit of the nineties, when Notre Dame was still one big family. Three members of the fac­ulty in particular Father McGinnis likes to remember" with kindness, Father Fitte for Latin, Father Stoffel in Greek and Dr. Austin O'Malley in English. "There's only a few of them left." For the sake of compari­son it should be remembered that Father Fitte taught the two upper classes Latin and Philosophy, Father Stoffel, Greek to the same classes and was pastor of St. Joseph's Church, South Bend, at the same time while Dr O'Malley taught all the English classes at the University. The occasions for close acquaintance betn-een student and professors were many indeed. 
"Father Vincent Dwyer like the rest of his clerical classmates has celebrated his silver jubilee as a priest. This took place June 14 last at Liberty, Ind., where he is pastor of St. Bridget's Church. Some Sev­enty-five priests from southern and central Indiana testified to his popu­larity in the diocese when they came to Liberty to help him celebrate. Father Dwyer has the distinction of hawng been pastor for part of his career over the countryside where Father Sorin first established his mission in the New World. 
"Father Hugh Gallagher, C.S.C, after ordination, Dec. 19, 1903, was sent to Columbia U., Portland, Ore­gon. It seems that the western coun­try was congenial to his romantic disposition and he remained there till 1921. Father Gallagher has a unique distinction of Being the sole recipient of a degree in Celtic from the Cath­olic University of America. He is at present the spiritual supenisor of Nazareth College and Academy, Naz­areth, Mich., also professor of Philos­ophy and Apologetics. On Dec. 19 of last year he celebrated his silver jubilee at Nazareth, where the Rev. Dr. GEORGE MARR, '01, his long and faithful companion in Oregon, was Deacon of the Mass and preached a most eloquent and edifying sermon. 
"I am enclosing a letter from W. 
D. FURRY, president of Shorter Col­lege, Rome, Ga.: 'I wish to acknow­ledge receipt of your circular letter and am glad to know you are making an effort to keep the Class of 1904 together. I have not been to Notre Dame since 1904 at which time the degree. Master of Arts, was con­ferred. If you will refer to Who's Who in -America for 1928—29 you will find all the necessary data of my life and work. . . -If at all possible to attend the Thirtieth Anniversary of the Class I shall be glad to do so.' 
JOHN F. DALY, President of Hiber­nia Bank and Trust Company, of Portland, Oregon, was enrolled in the class of 1900 but in his sophomore year was called back home on account of the death of his father, to take up the management of his father's bank at Madison, South Dakota. He later moved to Portland, Oregon, where he organized the Title & Trust Company the largest company of its kind in the State of Oregon. Later he.became President of the Hibemia Bank, which now rates third in size in Portland. John is active in civic affairs and has been a member of the Executive Committee Chest at Portland since its inception. He was President of the State Bankers Asso­ciation of Oregon, and is Oregon's representative on the Executive Com­mittee of the American's Banker's Association. His son, John F. Jr., is now a student in Carroll Hall at Notre Dame. 
NAT C. MACDOUGALL did post­graduate work in 1900 anil was a member of the 1900 track team at a time when bicycle riding was a part of the intercollegiate sports. Nat won first place in all of the dashes, including the Western Intercollegiate Meet. He is now Vice-President and Secretary of the A. Guthrie & Com­pany, contractors, and is in charge of their Western ofiice at Portland. His company built the great Cascade tun­nel for the Northern Pacific, and among the company's work at the present time is the great mining and municipal development in Peru, South America. 
1901 Joseph J. Sullivan, No. 1300, 139 N. Clark St., Chicago, Illinois. 
GEORGE A. McGEE, practicing law at Minot, North Dakota, states that they have about recovered from the intense slump in land values in that section of the country, and that business is fairly good there. He sends his regards to his old class­mates. 
From sources other than the Sec­retary himself, comes the following: JOSEPH J. SULLIVAN, Litt.B. '01, 
LL.B. '02, is a candidate for Judge of the Superior Court on the Repub­lican ticket in a hot contest being waged in Cook County. Mr. Sullivan was on the track team 1900-02 as a high jumper and pole vaulter; a mem­ber of the debating team in 1902, and editor-in-chief of the Scholastic in 1902. He has been president of the National Alumni Association (1920­
21) and was president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago in 1928. A campaign card reads: 
"Joseph J, Sullivan was born in Chicago. He attended the University of Notre Dame, taking degrees in Law and Literature. He has successfully represented the City of Chicago in its diiBcult litigation, for many years be­ing retained by Mayors Busse, Har­rison, Thompson and Dever. The Chicago Bar Association, in a report on Judicial candidates, says: 'He has an active professional experience of more than 25 years and is fitted by education and temperament to hold judicial office. He is qualified.'" 
October, 1929 THENOTREDAMEALUMNUS 
PI " itiMiiiKiiiiiiiiiiiiii ••••iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiKiiiiMaiiiiiiiiiitMiiiiiiiiiiiMiDMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiii niiiimim>iiiMiiimiiMiiMiiiiiiiiiMmiiiiimnitniiMnii|5| 
A Catholic Family Magazine 
No religious weekly is more widely circulated than The Ave Maria. It enters the best homes and is read by the best people! 
The staff of contributors includes many of the foremost American and English authors! 
Subscriptions 
Two Dollars and a Half 
per Year 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

IIIIIKIIIIftlltfllMIMtlfftltftHHtHIffHMflMffllMMItlllllW 
B. (•ltl)Mlllillllllllllll)llillllllll")imtl>lt1l*l)>lll)lll 
58 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1929 
Qiiii • IIMIIlQ 
1902 
Peter P. McEUigott, 320 W. 23rd St, New York City. 
1903 
Hello, Fellows! 
Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. Bldg, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
1904 

It's Chicago this Robert Proctor, Monger BIdg., Elkhart, Ind. year—Why not The Editor had a very encouraging and thoughtful letter of praise for the 
enj oy the best 
new ALUMNUS from TOM JONES, Indianapolis. 

while here for the 1905 
Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. La Salle St., 
game. 
Chicago, Illinois. 
1906 
Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen Bldg., Spokane, Wash. 
1907 
T. Paul McGannon, 36 W. 44th St, New York City. 1908 
Frank X. Cull, Bulkley Bldg, Cleveland, Ohio. 
1909 
E. P. Cleary, P. O. Box 356, 3Iomence, Blinois. 
1910 
Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 527 Beall Ave, Wooster, Ohio. Special Rip Van Winkle Reunion Next June! 
1911 Fred L. Steers, 1666 First NatL Bank Bldg, Chicago, Illinois. 

Elsewhere in the issue appears an announcement of the Secretary's re­election as secretary-treasurer of the Central A. A. U. 
f Cooper -Carlton Hotel] 
191 2  
I  Hyde  Park  Blvd.  at  53rd St  |  Edmund H. Savord, Box 135,  
I  CHICAGO  I  Sandusky, Ohio. 1913  
South Shores Lines to  James R. Devitt, 921 Engineers Bldg,  
53rd St. Station  Cleveland, Ohio.  
191 4  
Frank H. Hayes, Union Bank of  
400 ROOMS  :  400 BATHS  Chicago, Chicago, III. "I have just received an announce­ 
$2.50 per day and up  ment of the new firm of Derthick, Cu- 
sack,  and  Ganahl,  WILLIAM  J.  
CUSACK being none  other than  our  
"Cutie" of  1914 Class."  
American League Headquarters  (See Births.)  
1915  
James E. Sanford, 8212 Kenwood  
Home of the Crystal Ballroom  Ave, Chicago, HI.  
A letter  came  recently  from  ED­ 
MOND  L  FOLEY,  616 Gary Place,  
F. H.  SWEJENEY, MANAGER Notre Dame  Chicago, who had been in the missing list some time. He is connected with  
the A. B. Dick Co.  
A.  N.  MAHER, ASST.  JUNAGEE  1916  
Colorado School of  Mines  T. P. Galvin, 708 First Trust Bldg,  
Hammond, Indiana.  
QU I  IIQ  Dix Reunion Next June!  

The Editor saw the Class Secretary on the sidelines at the Indiana game, but too far for communication. 
1917 John U. Biley, 244 Washington St, Boston, Massachusetts. Dix Reunion Next June! A bulletin from the U. S. Veterans Bureau announces the appointment of JAMES D. HAYES as Claims Con­sultant to the Council on .Appeals. 
1918 

John A. Lemmer, 1110 Eighth .A.ve, Escanaba, Michigan. Dix Reunion Next June! 
1919 
Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce St, Gary, Indiana. Dix Reunion Ne.xt June! 

P. V. HENEHAN, JR., writes from the St. Clair Hotel, Bartles\-ille, Okla., "Have been a very inactive alumnus since 1919 as I have been on the move every couple of months and gradually drifted away from everything per­taining to Notre Dame. I wish to be reinstated and hope to make one of the games in Chicago this Fall." 
1920 Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black Bldg, Los Angeles, Calif. 

WILLIAM A. P.4.GE wrote from the transportation department of the Hudson & Manhattan Railroad Co., New York, about the ever-pressing -Army tickets. He is living at 134 W. 95th St. 
1921 
.4Iden J. Cusick, 530 Grant St., Denver, Colorado. 

CV-RL SCHUBERT, assistant sup­erintendent of the foundiy laboratory of the University of Illinois, writes: Since graduating from Notre Dame in 1921 I have been blessed with four children, two boys and two girls. Outside this marital expei-ience, I have been with the Pullman Car and Mfg. Co., of Michigan City, and for the past three years in ray present position." Carl has written a book on Foundry Practice for Engineering Students, available at the Real Co-Op, Mathews St., Urbana, 111., and he had an article on Absorption of Moisture by Dry Sand Cores in the Sept. 1 issue of The Foundry magazine. 
CY KASPER added a note that he was in his second year as athletic director at South Dakota, with things going nicely. 
JOE TIERNEY \\Tites from Teek­orator. Inc., Rochester, N. Y.: 
Your recent letter asking for alum­ni news gives me the delightful oppor­tunity to write a few lines on ray favorite subject. 
October, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Eight short years have made me an average stodgy young business man, engaged in the manufacture and sale of incinerators to burn anything from household refuse to mothers-in­law. The same years have raised my weight from one hundred eighteen to one hundred fifty-four pounds, and still climbing. They have taken the curl from my hair and the wild light from my eyes; have brought me to join the Knights of Columbus, Elks, Chamber of Commerce and American Legion as insurance of a good turn­out at my funeral; have given me a first-hand acquaintance with bridge, tradesmen, taxes, ward politics, alarm clocks and neighbors; and best of all these eight years have given me the happiness of one good wife and a child for each corner of the room. 
Although chance has brought me to South Bend and Notre Dame sev­eral times I have never returned to a Commencement. I hesitate to spoil a beautiful memory by going back. Probably it wouldn't be the diiference in the School so much as in myself that would make it impossible to re-live even an hour of the old days. Vanity and a sincere sense of appre­ciation of what Notre Dame gave me may lead me back when greatly in­creased sales of incinerators enable me to bring a check that will cause the faculty to rise and sing "For he's a jolly good fellow" and "the oldest living member of the Alumni." 
I hope your Outdoor life is bring­ing you health, wealth and many husky children and that our paths may sometime ci-oss long enough to enable us to exchange a few happy reminiscences. 
By the time you read this MORRIE ST-iEEETT will be somewhere near Notre Dame. But he wrote last month to A\: 
I'm ashamed, of course. Hearing you have trod into the "proud daddy" class makes me feel old and advising. 
Invite me to come home from the 1929 ramble with Rock via Denver, and I'll ti-y and save enough funds to manage. 
In 1924 I passed the 50,000 mile travel mark with Notre Dame foot­ball teams. That was the year dear old Walter Camp picked me for AU­-•Vmerican Waterboy and Rooter, and then passed out of the grid picture. Since 1924 I have piled up more mileage two trips East and around, and two trips South to see the team, bringing my new total to 90,500 miles and this year I hope to pass the 100,­000 mile mark. 
El 

Local Alumni Club Meetings 
Setid Notice of Meetings of Clubs Not Listed to Alumni Secretary, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
I CLEVELAND: Mondays—^year round luncheon meetings—the -AUerton £ —seventy-five cents. 
i NEW YORK CITY: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—Fraternity Club, I 22 East 38th Street. 
I CHICAGO: Fridays, 12:00—^luncheon meetings—^Ivory Room, Mandel's. 
i DETROIT: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—12:30—Frontenac Inn, 42 i Monroe .A.venue. 
; PITTSBURGH: Thursdays—luncheon—Hotel Heni-y. 
I LOS ANGELES: Wednesdays—luncheon—12:15—University Club. 
I CINCINNATI: First and third Tuesdays of each month—12:15 noon-i Broadway Hotel. 
I NEW JERSEY: Monthly meeting—7:30 p. m.—First Monday—New­i ark Athletic Club. 
1 INTER-MOUNTAIN: Monthly luncheon—First Tuesday—University I Club, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
I KENTUCKY: Generally the second Tuesday of each month—different i locations. Call Edward Pfeiffer, 407 Martin Brown .-Vrcade, I Louisville. 
i W.A.BASH VALLEY: Four times yearly—January, April, October, 1 December—Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Indiana. Call H. R. Kamp, I 1207 Wells Street. 
I ST. JOSEPH VALLEY: Monthly luncheon meeting—Last Monday. 
I Call Paul Castner, Studebaker Corporation, South Bend. 
i DES MOINES: Monthly meeting—no regular date. Call Carleton Beh. 
I JOLIET: Monthly meeting—First Tuesday. Call Edward King, 301 I Ruby Street, for details. 
I NOETHERN CALIFOENIA: Monthly luncheon—first Tuesday—Clift I Hotel, San Francisco. 
1 FOET WAYNE: Monthly dinner—no definite date. Call John W. 1 Eggeman, president, or Thomas McKieman, secretary. 
I EOCHESTER: First and third Wednesdays—12:15—Chamber of Com­: merce Private Dining Room. 
I SYRACUSE: Monthly luncheon—second Wednesday, 12:15—Schraft's. 
BiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiniiittiiiiMiiiiiiiniitiii iiiiiiiiiiinuiiiiiiiiltiilUiiiUliiitlliiiiixniiiMiiMiiiMiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiitiiiiiniiiiiiiii 
THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1929 
Not much new. Am out of the 

newspaper game and into real estate 
and insurance. Port Towmsend has 
boomed and banged. Now is quite a 
paper and pulp city. Zellerbach in­
terests. 
Quite an active Notre Dame crowd 

in Seattle and about, and we rally 
strong when Rock wanders our way 
once a year. 
Hope I shall see you at the U. S. C. game with the family. 
1922 Gerald Ashe, 1024 Monroe Are., Rochester, N. Y. 

1923 Paul Castner, 805 N. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
That explains the results of the ballots and delivers the new Secretaiy into the immediate hands of the Edi­tor. And he's married now. So give him the dope, because he can't get away. 
HOLLY GRINAGEE writes that "there hasn't been a '23 guy in Fer­gus Falls for five years. What's the matter? 10KE SCHWARZ and wife, of Wilson, Kansas, were up for a week catching all the big fish in the county." 
EDDIE GOULD writes that JOHN 

B. STEPHAN is now the executive secretary of the Columbian Country Club, the only Catholic country club in the country. He got an LL.B. from Kent College in June of this year and will soon tackle the bar exam. 
E. S. RYAN is now with the Oliver Farm Equipment Co., living at the Momingside, in South Bend. 
1924 James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave., New York City. 

"Time's" review of Sweet Adeline, the newest musical hit in New York, says "the best thing in Sweet -Adeline is CHARLES BUTTERWORTH." 
JIM MEEHAN is back in Erie, Pa., for a few months with the N. Y. 
C. inspecting electric locomotives for Cleveland. 
J. HOWARD HALEY is treasurer and general manager of the Colin B. Kennedy Radio Corp. of America, South Bend, one of the city's leading young industries. 
JOHN STANTON and DAVE STANTON, '26, have united ^vith Richard E. Houren in law partner­ship, 403 Model Bldg., Gary, Ind. 
AL CASTELLINI has returned from his studies in Rome and is prac­ticing law at 1008 American Bldg., Cincinnati. 
JOHN GLEASON has moved his 
law practice to 686 Union Trust 
Bldg., Cleveland. 
CHARLEY McGONAGLE dropped 
a note from 478 Hudson Ave., New­
ark, Ohio, and seems to be bound for 
the Carnegie Tech game. 
TOM BARBER writes a welcome 
note (check enclosed) from Erie, Pa., 
where he is getting the upper hand 
of Erie's laws. 
1925 
John W. Scallan, Pullman Co., 79 W. Adams St., Chicago, HI. 
0-Year Reunion in June! 
The Four Horsemen are still riding. 
HARRY STUHLDREHEE, in addi­
tion to coaching and business, is writ­
ing a weekly sports review for the 

N. C. W. C. ELMER LAYDEN'S Duquesne team, coached also by JOE BACH, tied West Virginia for an Eastern eye-opener. JIMMY CROW­LEY took Harry Kipke's Michigan State team, trained in the spring by Kipke, and held Kipke's U. of Michi­gan team to two touchdowns. DON AHLLER hasn't had much chance, at this writing, to show his hand in Ohio State's team. But they're still talk­ing about Don in Georgia. ADAM WALSH is being lauded in column after column in the East for his evi­dent rejuvenation of Yale's football. 
JOHN NOPPENBERGER is going into another good season at Spalding Institute, Peoria. John expects to make the Southern California game. 
BILL HURLEY writes from Sagi­naw, "A couple of months ago I de­cided that I was tired of being called a damn Yankee, stuck my toothbrush in my pocket and came home. I'm now persuading the boys around here that they need more insurance. Bill is now at 117 Cherry St., Saginaw, Mich. 
JOHN SHOWEL is getting a lot of credit for his editing of the Lincoln­ite, a Chicago suburban journal. 
CARL SPRENGER is at 244 Tennyson Ave., Detroit. Asked for news of DAN O'NEIL and is get­ting it. 
JOE TOOLEN turns up at 404 Herrick Bldg., Green Bay, Wis. 
TUBBY HARRINGTON, a self-confessed worried mortgage man, came panting through the mails for Wisconsin tickets. Look for him one mile south of the south goal. 
CHUCK COLLINS is looking for a center in North Carolina, but other­wise is in good shape for the season^­his critics say. 
1926 
Gerald W. Hayes, 3117 Washington St., Chicago, 111. 
Jeri-y is back at the same address 
for another year at the N. U. medi­
cine racket. 
BERT DUNNE is with the Camp­
bell-Ewald Co., advertising, 1034 
Monadnock Bldg., San Francisco, 
handling the Chevrolet account on the 
Pacific coast. 
VIC LEMMER has gone into the 
insurance and auditing business for 
himself. Box 61, Ironwood, Mich. 
HAP KIELY was East recently for 
a hurried \-isit. 
1927 
Edmund De Clercq, 8200 S. Ellis Ave., 
Chicago, 111., Secretary. 
MARK NEVILS, who is in the air transport business with headquarters in Kalamazoo, Mich., comes down fre­quently to South Bend. He says that BILL FENNELL is managing the news and cigar department of the Pantlind Hotel, Grand Rapids, 5Iich. 
1928 
Louis Buckley, Notre Dame, Ind., 
Secretary. 
DICK WEPPNER, who has been with the .American Steel and Wire Co. in Cleveland since graduation, is back on the Notre Dame campus as a graduate assistant in the depart­ment of chemistry. 
DICK GREEN received his Mas­ter's degree this summer and contin­ues at Notre Dame as a member of the faculty in the department of physics. 
HENRY PERSYN, who has been connected wtih the Hawley Pulp & Paper Co., of Oregon City, Ore., is now a graduate assistant in the de­partment of chemistry. 

CHARLEY WILLIAMS, as you will notice in the marriage column, followed the example of a number of the other '28 fellows and returned to South Bend to be married. ART GLEASON and his wife stopped off in South Bend long enough to be showered with rice by all the '28 men the Class Secretary could find, includ­ing BILL JONES, FRANK DONO­VAN, ANDY BOYLE and JIM ALLEN. Art was on his way to Akron, Ohio, where he will be em­ployed by the Goodrich Tire and Rub­ber Co. 
ANTHONY BENNING is with Du­Pont Nemour Co., of Wilmington, Delaware. BILL MAHIN and ^\•ife 
(Continued on Page 62.) 

October, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
The Notre Dame Club oft/ie City of New York 
tIDMIIIIItlllllllll 
Club Headquarters 
22 East 38th Street 
il J. Doherty 
Ambrose OXonnell 
Peter P. McElligott 
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW 320 West 23rd Sti-eet 
WHOSE BUSINESS CARD WILL BE HERE NEXT MONTH? For details see AMBROSE O'CONNELL 

•tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
330 Students Aided 
by University 
Part-time work—in the refectory, the University library, the dorm­tories, the projection booth or else­where—is making a college educa­tion, more particularly a Notre Dame education, available for approxi­mately 350 students. These figures are from the Offices of the Vice-Pres­ident of the University, Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C. The jobs are varied; so are the compensations. 
The clatter of dishes in the dining halls calls the largest number of em­ployes There are 132 waiters, 22 "set-up" men, 11 workers in the caf­eteria and 49 in the kitchens. There is one man in charge of the news­stand in the cafeteria. 
Deans and professors must have secretaries; 68 students, including laboratory assistants, do the work. At the reference and delivery desks of the Library, there are 15 men. Visitors to the -A.rt gallery neces­sitate a guide. Another man handles the volumes of the law library. 
Other jobs include those of 9 stu­dent prefects, 8 janitors, 8 watchmen, and several are in charge of the ath­letic equipment in the gym. Four men are at the candy store; two act as freshmen coaches. The most novel positions are probably those of movie operator in Washington Hall and student-commissioner in the Isolation House. 

Newspaper work, driving auto­mobiles and employment in the stores down town, offer possibilities outside of campus demands. It is the policy of the University to provide employ­ment for those who really need it to complete their college years; for that purpose, lists of e.\tra-campus jobs are obtained by the rector of Off-Campus. There are probably as many men working in South Bend as there are on the campus. 
—The Scholastic. 
 tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMitiiintiiiMiiitiiiHMKiMiiintni)*. ; 
WiOiam E. Cotter 
lllKllllDllliitlililuniMiilllllttttllMi* z 
WiUiam A. Daunt 
(••••UIIIMIMItllllttlllllDIIK 
A New York Alumnus 
(•••tlllltllliltllltltilliltllllllllltiilllKUliiMlliiltiitllllloilii 
John T. Balfe 
PERSONAL INSURANCE 
Life Insurance Trusts Coi'poration Insurance Inheritance Taxes Undervmtten 
Graybar Building 
NEW YORK CITY 

llllllltllDtlllllltlllftll IMHIItllllMlllltllllHIII«IHIIIItMltlMlHHMIIIIHIHIIIIHt|l 
QUI 
-John i/antDct Series­
"It's easier to live within an Income than without one".' 
Budget your income and 
buy Income Insurance 
E
XPERIMENT with our 
Home Budget Sheet. 
Records all family Expenses. 
Shows you how to save and 
how to have more to spend. 
Good for your personal happiness and for the welfare of your family. 
Inquiry Bureau 
197 Clarendon St. Boston, Mass. 
Please send me FREE copy of the John Hancock Home Budget Sheet. '(I enclose 2c. to cover postage.) 
Name ~. 
Address 
• Oter Sixty-Fice Yearj in Buiineja ­
(Continued From Papre 60.) 

are living in Pittsburgh, where Bill is connected with the Vanadium Steel Alloys Corporation. RONALD RICH has been located at 6047 Kinbark Ave., Chicago, 111., where he is with the General Chemical Company. How about hearing about some more of the science men, including JOE REPET­TI and WAYNE EWING? ANDY BOYLE asks for news concerning WELDON FORD. 
RAY LAPOINTE has left Toledo for Detroit, where he is with the Fuel Oil Corporation. Ray's address is Markett Apts., Markett and loth Streets. BUS COVERT is ^^^th the Covert Sporting Goods Co. in Toledo. Bus has made quite a name for him­self, according to reports, as a speed demon on the race tracks of Ohio. 
JIM McSHANE gave us a surprise last month when he appeared on the campus and announced that he was entering the Jesuit Novitiate in St. Louis, Mo. Let's hope that the Class has some more such surprises report­ed soon. 
JOE HILGER dropped in the other day on his way back to the University of Pennsylvania, where he expects to have VINCE CAREY as a classmate again this year. 
AL THOMAS has been visiting quite a bit this summer in South Bend but of course we do not know the reason for his frequent calls. Al is 
returning this year to Michigan Uni­
versity for Law. 
JOHN BROWN is at Wisconsin University this year, where he in­tends to finish his law work. JOHN FONTANA spent the summer at Notre Dame, but has returned to Cleveland to finish his law at Western Reser\'e. 
BILL O'MARA is \vith the Ameri­

can Tel. and Telegraph Co. and man­
ages to divide his time between 
Peoria, Springfield and Galesburg, 
Illinois. 
JOHN FREDERICK and JOE 

MORRISSEY visited the campus last 
month. Joe is coach at Pontiac High 
in Pontiac, Mich. John is back to his 
old post at Detroit University. 
Several of the Harvard fellows 

dropped in for a visit before leaving 
for the East, including BILL CAR­
NEY, DICK PHELAN, JIM SHOCK­
NESSY and JERRY BIGGE. 
Will the '28 men who are interested in hawng a get-together after the Southern California game please drop your Class Secretary a card, letting hiin know just what they would like to have and if they can be depended upon to attend. Suggestion as to whether a dance or a dinner would be preferable and the place desired will be sufficient information to give him. If enough will respond to this sug­gestion there will be an announce­ment concerning it in next month's issue of the ALUMNUS or else you will be notified by letter concerning it. Your card must be in by Nov. 1, so don't delay if you really would like to put this over. 
HOWIE PHALIN is located in Denver. Says he found EAY Mc-GR.4.TH bringing down the Publix theater crowds •ivith his banjo there. Also saw LES CARRIG, Metropoli­tan Life, in Columbus, Nebr. MIL­TON WEGNER, '28, is practicing law there. ED LEVINSON is assistant district manager of the John Hancock Life Ins. Co. in Omaha. Ed has a wife of three years' stand­ing, and a Chevrolet. MIKE FRANTZ, the famous glee club tenor Howie adds,. is running a Building and Loan association in Friend, Nebr. They want to know if BOB KIEBY is still single. Ans. He seemed to be a few weeks ago—he al­most paid his dues. BERNIE WICK­HAM has a new seven passenger plane and is going to fly Howie to the Northwestern game if he stays there that long. Bemie recently won the Nebraska-Iowa air race. 
JACK LAVELLE made the N. Y. Times roto recently as a former N. D. athlete, Columbia law student and new coach of All Hallows Inst, foot­ball team in Harlem. 
ART SLAVIN states that he is at 2001 St. Paul St., Rochester, and that if his friends will just send him their address, especially JOHNNY McM.A.­HON, (who is with the N. Y. Sun, Art), he will write. 
HAROLD CANAVAN is at the House of Refuge, Randals Island, N. 
Y. Harbor, N. Y., not a refugee, but a social worker while attending the 
N. Y. School of Social Work. 
ANDY MULREANY has gone to 

Sears & Roebuck, 619 Main St., Wor­
cester, Mass. 
CH.A.RLES J. DUCEY is with the 

Boy Life Bureau, 45 Wall St., New-
Haven, Conn. The New Haven con­
tingent are planning on attending the 
Army game and celebration in a body. 
JOHN R. MURPHY is at a new address, 1811 Prairie Ave., Chicago. BERNARD LOEFFLER has also changed, from South Bend to 1305 N. Delaware, Indianapolis. 
1929 

Joseph P. SIcNamara, 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Ind., Secretary. 
The Secretary is hanging back with the wariness of his legal and debating training until he establishes his facts. That will make a delayed but an in­teresting column. 
JOSEPH BARNETT has moved to 805 President St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
MARCELLUS C. KIECHNER is with the General Electric Co. in Schenectady, getting along fine, test­ing some theremin substance for RCA, and is reported in line for a , promotion. 
DAVE LEHMAN is now living at 600 W. 115th St., New York City, attending Columbia University. 
A postcard from JOE KEEFE in­dicates that he is enjoying a trip on the other side. 
CASPER GEATHWOHL, PHIL LANDSMAN, TOM FAREELL, GEEALD ROACH, VINCENT LUK­ASCEWICZ, IVAN LE BLANC and JOE SULLIVAN passed the Michi­gan Bar exams this Fall. Phil is practicing in Buchanan, Mich. 
JOHN E. HOOVEE is on the mer­chandising staff of the Chicago American and has been piling up a lot of personal glory in the more or less obscure but important duties of that department. John is at 227 Oak Park Ave., Oak Park, 111. 
October, 1929  TH E  NOTR E  DAM E  ALUMNU S  63  
@"'  ItllliltlDtlllttllltllDIIIIIIIIIIIIIII  iiiiiiiiiniKii  iiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiimiimiiHMtimtwmMMinMiMmtiiiiiiiii  
The Notre Dame Alumnus  

Business and Professional Directory 
llllltllltllllllllltlllllllll iiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiitiiiiitiiiMtiitniitiiiiMmitiiiitiifHiimii 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
Established 1911 
COOPER-KANALEY and CO. 
FmsT MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS 120 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. Tel. Franklin 0353. 
IlllllllllllllllllUllllllllllllllltllllllilll 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 
•iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiii 
POLAR ICE & FUEL COMPANY 
John (Ike) Voedisch, '27 Ass't Manager 
ALUMNI OF OTHER SCHOOLS Use It to Great Advantage. 
IIDMIIII ­
THE ALUMNUS Is Read by 5,000 N. D. Alumni. 
YOUR N. D. FRIENDS Want to Do Business With You. 

i This is One of Your First | I Opportunities to Profit | I as Alumni. I 
E iiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiKiiitiiiiiiiii : 
I THE NEW ALUMNUS | [ is a Better but Costlier i I Magazine. i 
• •lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllMllllliilltlllllli ; 
I Send Copy for |I the Next Nine Issues to i 1 J. E. ARMSTRONG 1 I Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind. I 
Unclaimed Mail 

(From time to time, lists like this will appear. You \vill confer a favor on these men and the Association by sending in their present address. The Association has not the facilities for tracing lost members.) 
Ansoatigui, Santiago—'08 Aranas, Emilio—'17 Aranibar, James S.—'15 Barrett, James B.—'96 Babbs, Rev. A. V.—'22 Bailey, Dr. Wm. H.—'84 Ballinger, Joseph G.—'27 Barrett, Eichard K.—'25 Battle, Joachim L.—'08 Baumer, Frederick H.—'22 Becker, Rev. M. S.—'14 Bell, James X.—'23 Berry, James F.—'28 Biggers, Clarence E.—'17 Boehning, James W.—^'28 Borawsld, Alexander—'28 Boucher, F. J.—'12 Bower, John E.—'25 Bracho, Jose—^"15 Britt, Edw. D.—'88 Brogan, Anthony J.—'01 Brogan, John F.—'08 Brucker, Stephen J.—'99 Bucher, Edmund V.—'09 Buckley, Leo F.—'11 Burke, James W.—'12 Byi-nes, Robert L.—'15 Camp, Wm. F.—'12 Carey, Louis John—^'04 Carey, Wm. F.—'87 Carney, Francis L.—'94 Casey, Joseph M.—'23 Cassidy, Henry C—'77 Catapang, Rev. Vincent—'23 Cava, Jasper F.—'24 Chao, George B.—'25 Chassaing, E. V.—'95 Chaussee, Ephrem L.—'24 Chemidlin, Michael M.—'13 Clancy, John—'21 Clark, Owen—'10 Claxton, Wm. R,—'95 Cleary, Leo J.—'10 Clemens, Wm. L.—'25 Collins, Richard W.—'14 Connolly, James J.—'19 Connolly, Thomas A.—^'95 Conway, Franklin L.—^"27 Coomes, Dr. M. P.—'03 Coontz, John L.—'07 Corbett, James J.—'08 Cortozar, Enrique—^'12 Costello, Emmett J.—'19 Costello, Martin J.—'97 Cross, James A.—'28 Crowley, Paul W.—'20 CuUen, J. Paul—'22 Cunning, Patrick H.—'12 Cunningham, L. L.—^"28 Cusick, Dwight P.—'12 
{To be continued.) 
DAYTON, OHIO 
ItllUlttlllllMllllltlllinillltlMIIMiniNHUMItMIIMHI 
JOSEPH B. MURPHY, '11 
ATTOBNEY-AT-LAW 309-15 Mntaal Home Bldg. Dayton, Ohio 
Murphy & Murphy 

Rate for the Next Nine Issues 
$22.50 

I Don't Under-estimate I the Scope of the I ALUMNUS. 
= '•••••iMiiiHtiiMiitiiiiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiiiitiiimiiiiiiitiMiiuin 
I Many Commissions I have been lost to N. D. I Men through lack of this I very Imowledge. 
[ THIS PAGE I I and several like it should I I be filled Next Month. i 
^ IIIIMIIIItlllltlltMIIIUtllll lltlllttllllttllllUlllllttllllll-• 
I DON'T WAIT I I to see who else is in. | I That's what is | f Wrong Now! l 
Z .(•iiitniiiiniiiiitiiiuitiiittiiiiHiiiMiiiiiiitttiiuiiDttiiiitiiii • 
I IF YOU I 
j CAN USE BUSINESS | I Take one of these Cards. I 
Z •••iniiiiniiiiiiiiiitt tiiiitiiiuuiKitiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiM* = 
I Rate is payable by month, | I in advance, or in June. | 
•lUUIIIIIMllll 
SEND YOUR COPY. 

gltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMniiiliiiiiiiniiiniiiiniiiiitiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiniiMiii 
W. F. Montavon Is Honored hii Pove 
(Continued from Pajre 39) 

troyed by •\'iolence in Mexico was apparent and soon after the arrival of Ambassador Morrow in Mexico the Calles Government manifested a will­ingness to discuss the situation with some American citizen authorized to represent the Church. The Holy See apointed His Excellency, The Apos­tolic Delegate to the United States, to be in charge of Mexican affairs. The General Secretai-y of the N. C. W. C, Di'. John J. Burke, C.S.P., was auth­orized to act as the representative of the Apostolic Delegate. 
Father Burke and Mr. Montavon were in close contact with members of the Mexican Hierarchy and with Mexican Catholics who were living in exile in the United States. .4rch­bishop Leopoldo Euiz y Floi-es, senior member of the Mexican Hierarchy, and. Bishop Pascual Diaz, Secretary of the Mexican Hierarchy, were fre­quent visitors in Washington. 
-At the end of March, 1928, Presi­dent Calles in^^ted Father Burke to come to Mexico for a conference and authorized Mr. Montavon to accom­pany him. The conference took place in the ancient fortress of San Juan de UUua in the bay of Vera Cruz. 
A few days later and as a result of this conference, at Celaya, where the anniversary of Obregon's victory over Pancho ViUa was being celebrated, Jose Puig y Casauranc, Secretary of Education in the Calles Cabinet, was the official spokesman of the Govern­ment. In the presence of both Calles and Obregon, Dr. Puig referred to the religious conflict and disavowed any desire or intention on the part of the Government to destroy the religion of the Mexican nation. The speech of Dr. Puig had been read and ap­proved by both Calles and Obregon and was published not only in Mexico but was cabled to all pai-ts of the world. This was the first step openly taken toward reconciliation. 
The results of the Vera Cruz con­ference were reported to the Holy See, and at the same time a basis of reconciliation was submitted to the Mexican Hierarchy. Meeting in San Antonio, the Bishops approved this basis and by unanimous vote ex­pressed their loyalty to the Holy See and their willingness to accept any just arrangement that might be made for their return to Mexico and the resumption of public worship. 
In May, 1928, it seemed advisable that a second conference be held with President Calles. Father Burke was invited to Mexico City for this pur­pose and the Holy See instructed him to accept the invitation. President Calles again authorized Mr. Monta­von to accompany Father Burke and after some hesitation consented to re­ceive Archbishop Leopoldo Euiz as a member of the Committee. As a result Archbishop Euiz, Father John Burke, C.S.P., and Mr. Montavon con­ferred with President Calles in the historic Castle of Chapultepec. The confei'ence was successful and a ten­tative agreement was reached between Archbishop Euiz and President Calles for the resumption of public worship. 
The Holy See summoned Arch­bishop Euiz to Eome for consultation before reaching a decision. This occasioned delay. The presidential campaign, the Gomez-Serrano rebel­lion, the election of Obregon, his as­sassination, the election of a provis­ional President, the trial of a large number of Catholics charged with the murder of Obregon, the convict­tion and execution of Jose de Leon Toral, an attempt to wreck the train on which President Portes Gil was returning from Tampico to Mexico, and finally the military revolt of March 3, 1929, interrupted the nego­tiations. 
Soon after the crisis broke in 1926 the correspondent of the N. C. W. C. News Sen-ice was expelled from Mex­ico. The difficult task of reorganiz­ing this service was given to Mr. Montavon and to him is due in great measure the fact that the Catholic press of the United States has been supplied with information surpassed by no other news agency either in timeliness or accuracy. So well known was this fact that Mr. Montavon had frequent opportunities to co-operate with the great secular news gathering agencies and won international rep­utation as an authority on the Mex­ican question. 
When the military rebellion of March 3, 1929, produced a serious crisis in Mexico, both His Excellency, the -Apostolic Delegate, and Father John Burke were in Europe. Respon­sibility fell on Mr. Montavon, who was in close touch with Archbishop Ruiz and Bishop Diaz. It was soon apparent that the Government of Mexico would succeed in suppressing the rebellion. Efforts were made in Mexico and in the United States to enlist for the rebellion the support of the Catholics. Through correspon­
dents on the ground Mr. Montavon was in close touch mth every phase of the rebellion. The effort to enlist Catholic support failed. At a confer­ence attended by several hundred del­egates in Durango the Religious De­fense League refused to affiliate with the rebels. It was evident that once the revolt was overcome the Govern­ment of Mexico would be in a posi­tion to renew the discussion of the religious question. The fact that the Catholics of Mexico had given no or­ganized support to this rebellion, al­though they never weakened in their opposition to the unjust laws, was brought to the attention of the Gov­ernment of Mexico and on May 2, 1929, President Portes Gil, in pro­claiming the success of the federal forces against the rebel Generals, ex­onerated the clergy and the Church from all responsibility. 
This was an admirable act of jus­tice and could mean nothing else than an appeal to the Mexican Catholics for a cessation of the conflict that had waged for so many months. .A.s such it was accepted by -Archbishop Ruiz who, without allo^ving a day to pass, issued, at Washington, D. C, on the afternoon of May 2, a state­ment in which he appealed to Pres­ident Portes Gil for a settlement of the conflict. 

On May 7, President Portes Gil replied to the press accepting the of­fer of Archbishop Ruiz that a fur­ther conference be arranged. 
The Holy See now appointed .A.rch­bishop Ruiz, .Apostolic Delegate to Mexico. The other Mexican Bishops unanimously expressed their willing­ness to co-operate with him. Pres­ident Portes Gil accepted the appoint­ment and invited the new jVpostolic Delegate to return to Mexico author­izing Bishop Diaz to accompany him. Lea\-ing Washington on June 4, they held their first conference in Mexico City on June 10. Two further con­ferences followed. A deadlock seemed to be impending. .A.mbassa­dor Morrow brought them together. A third conference was held on June 21 and immediately thereafter state­ments were issued by President Por­tes Gil and -4.rchbishop Ruiz which made possible the return of the cler­gy and the resumption of public wor­ship in Me.xico. Both Archbishop Ruiz and President Portes Gil pub­licly stated that the terms agreed to on June 21, 1929, are substantially the same as those that had been agreed to in the fortress of San Juan de Ullua in April 1928. 




