The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Vol. 39 No. 6 
December, 1961 
JAMES E. AKMSTRONG, "ZS Editor 
JOHN F. LAUGHUN, •48 Managing Editor 
•DEADLINES LOOM FOR APPEAL AND ELECTION 



December 75 Windup Sought for Challenge Pledges and Board Ballots 
THE GENERAL APPEAL phase of Notre Dame's $18 THE ALUMNI BALLOT was prepared and mailed in late Million Challenge Campaign is scheduled to close December October for return by December 15, in accordance with con­15 with the return of all pledges by the 4,000 committee stitutional provisions that "ballots shall be mailed to all mem­volunteers. Combined gifts and pledges from general and spe­bers in good standing" (Art. IV, Sec. 2) and that "a mem­cial appeals reached $10J4 million at mid-point in November, ber shall be constituted 'in good standing* if he has made a less than $2 million short of the minimum required for the contribution to the preceding or current Annual Alumni Ford Foundation matching grant but only 57% of the goal Fund" (Art. Ill, Sec. 3). The 1961 candidates for the required by the Program for the Future. Effort will con­Alumni Board of Directors are shown below as they appeared tinue to July, 1963, and all alumni who have not been per-on the ballot, the return section of which inadvertently car­p sonally contacted are asked to indicate their utmost capacity ried the voter's address on the back—not to invade his priva­to help over this period. cy but to provide him with a permanent record of nominees. 
How 

well 
are 

we I doing 
Cftof­lenge­wise  CASTELLINI. Albert D., LL.B. '24, Cincinnati, O. A practicing attorney, married, the father of five children, brother late William D., N.D. *22, Al has been active in the Cincinnati Club, Law alumni, a frepuent visitor to the campus.^ Studied^ in Europe after graduation, Belgian consul in Cin­cinnati. First recipient Man of the Year Award in Cincinnati and permanent chairman Club scholar­ship committee. Tivo sons gradu­ates of Notre Dame, two more present students.  DONOVAN, Clarence J. (Oonie). LL.B. '31, Bedford, Ind. Oonic Donov*an, three monogram basket­ball man and captain, has prac­ticed law in Bedford since gradu­ation except for four years army service, eighteen months oveneas. Member local, state and national bars, he was elected fellow Amer­ican College Trial LawTcrs ip 1960. Board member, and presi­dent 1953-4, N.D. Law Assn. Launched law scholarship pro> gram. Former mayor. K. of C. Married, no fJiildrcn.  DREUX, Waiiam B.. A.B.. '33 (magna cum laude). Practicing attorney, except for war years, Avhen Bill was a captain in the O.S.S. parachute forces. North­western U. law school and LL3 . Tulane *36. Past president NJJ. Cljb New Orleans, past Founda­tion city chairman. Advisory Council Arts and Letters. Presi­dent Bureau of Governmental Research, member Civil Service Commission. Bill was on campus publication staffs and in internal! athletics. Married (NancyReeves).  FAGCENDA, Philip J.. B.S. Mech. Enir. '51. PhU was active in die ASfiiE and the Chicago Clob on campus, a member of the varsity track team three years. After graduation he en­tered the air force for service in Korea. He received his Juris Dot> tor from Loyola U.. Chicago, 1957. Maziied, one daughter, he is president of the Ifidwest Con­tainer Co., Inc. President, NJ) . Club of Chicago 1959-60. Current chairman Chicago general Fouit­flatiaa I  
Turn (poge for  
on ap­prais­al of the alum­ni re­turns »fo date  ! GORMAN, J. R. "Pat". B.S.C. I *40, Georgetown Law *42. Pat is • senior partner law firm Gorman I and Day, Washington, D.C. I Army, three and a half years. I Chairman executive committee I Sorin-Hall advertising and public I relations firm. National adjutant ; gen. Catholic War Vets. Toast-I masters Club (finalist speech con-I test). Boys Club board, national I board Junior C. of C. Member-I ship and public relations chair-I man Sales Executive Club. Mar­ried, four children.  KERNAN, Peter J., Jr. B-S. Met. Eng. '49. Pete is co-ordinator in Ford Motor college recruiting de­partment since 1959, with pre­vious Ford experience in manufac­turing operations, foundry shell molding, materials and quality control, statistical and financial analysis, and other central office work from 1949. Native South Orange, N.J., Pete ^vas an aerial navigator World War II, 24 com­bat missions. Alarried, with five children, Pete is active in Detroit alumni and Foundatioa activities.  WALKER, Thomas J.. A.B. '42. Tom is president of Walker In­surance Assooates, Ft. Lauder­dale, Fla. Tom served three years as a naval lieutenant in World ^Var 11. He has served as presi­dent of the NJ>. Club of Ft. Lauderdale, and is secretary and a director of R. H. Gore Co., chairman of the board of Insti­tutional Ins. Co. of America. Tocn was married by the late Cardinal O'Hara (in 19f3 to Ruth Ann Shelare). The Walkers have five children.  WALSH, Adam J.. H.E. *25. Adam, captain and center of the 1924 football team, has coached college and profesd<mal football, been active in politics since grad­tiation. Fro coach of the year widi national diampmn Rams in 1945. Maine state chaiman Can­cer Society; state edncadooal TV oHnmittee; two terms Maine 1^-idatnre; nominee for Congres; now U.S. Marshal for Maine. Married (Dorothy Fisher, St. Marr'sl three dSldrca.  


Sditorial Comment 
from your Alumni Secretary 

SIGHTS? HIGH! PARTICIPATION? LOW! 
This is the summar)' of tlie status quo in alumni gi\'ing as this is written. 
Everj-one is tremendously encouraged by the obvious effort of alumni to meet the larger gi^ng goal implicit in the current campaign. 
But the Alumni Office, in the light of previous Annual Alumni Fund figures, is a little ner\'ous at this same stage over the slow climb of the partici­pation chart. 
We think the answer is a twofold one. 
First, in 1960, and again this year, the customary and frequent Annual Alumni Fund appeals have not been sent out, in \aew of the projected Gen­eral Appeals program which was launched on October 17. 
Secondly, many alumni are under­standably waiting to determine at the year's end the amount they can give toward the larger goal sought. 
Probably a third factor is that many alumni who do not feel yet that they can give a generous capital gift in three figures or more have chosen to hold up any giving. 
There are tliree points involved in recognizing these considerations. 
First, the General Appeals program, under Chairman Joe O'Neill, was launched on October 17, and all alum­ni, whether in the areas of personal solicitation or in die unorganized areas where direct mail is our contact, are hopefully expected to participate by the end of 1961 — whether by gift or by expression of intent. 

Secondly, we are in complete ac­cord with the advantages of waiting until December to determine a gift that may affect the tax position of the donor favorably, or until some evidence of year-end bonus or other benefits may permit a more generous participa­tion in the current appeal. But we would like to remind alumni that the Annual Alumni Fund ends its year on December 31, and participation for 1961 will be predicated only on those gifts or letters of intent which have been received by that time. 
We need a large increase in alumni participation — six thousand donors (6,000) at this writing — to meet the 1960 participatio7i figure, though the amount of alumni gi\'ing promises to be substantially increased for the year. 
And we would like to suggest, in considering the third factor, that alum­ni who may not now feel in a position to participate as generously as they hope, or as we hope ultimately they may, send in at least a participation gift by December 31, with the possi­bility of considering the more serious gift in 1962-63-64. 
Since alumni support was one of the major factors in our selection by the Ford Foundation, we sincerely hope that the first year of this General Ap­peal will not show any significant drop in participation, whatever generous in­crease in amount we may reflect. 
James E. Armstrong, '25 

Laetare Medal Presented [ In White House Ceremony ! 
Notre Dame's Laetare Medal, awarded : annually to an outstanding -American Catholic layman, was received for the first time by a President of the United States on November 22, when it was presented by j Father Hesburgh to President John Fitz-' gerald Kennedy. The presentation was ! made at an intimate afternoon ceremony in the White House just prior to the Presi­dent's departure from Washington for a Thanksgiving holiday in Hyannis Port/a Mass. ^ 
Major Gifts Boost November Totals 
The mid-November progress report of Notre Dame's Challenge Program was swelled by the following substantial gifts: ' 
On November 11 it was announced that -Alfred C. Stcpan, Jr., '31, founder-presi­dent of Stepan Chemical Co., Northfield, III., and his wife, Mary Louise, are donors of the $350,000 Stcpan Student .-Activities Center for concerts, convocations, etc., a massive buff brick building, topped by an aluminum geodesic dome, seating 3,000, and now under construction north of the Me^W morial Library site. .Among the Stepans' children are three alumni, ."Alfred III, '58, Quinn, '59, and Stratford, '61. 
On November 14 came the announce­ment that the Jesse H. Jones Professorship of Business .Administration has been estab­lished for five years by a $50,000 grant from Houston Endowment, Inc., honoring the Texas businessman-philanthropist who was Sccretar>- of Commerce and a federal administrator under President Franklin Roosevelt. The chair will be held by Dr. j Thomas Bergin, head of the University's i department of business organization. £j« 
On November 19 a grant of $I,000,00(W from the .Alfred P. Sloan Foundation for the expansion and improvement of the Col­lege of Engineering was announced by A\-i fred P. Sloan, Jr., and Father Hesburgh. 
IN MEMORIAM 
REV. THEODORE J. MEHLING, C.S.C. 1906-1961 
Father Mehllng died November 13 in Santiago, Chile, in his eleventh year as provincial superior of more 3 than 400 priests in the Holy Cross Fathers' Indiana Pro\-incc. He had been a priest for 28 years, a teacher, dean and president of the University of Portland. His term as provincial superior has seen the erection of a new Morcau Seminary, priests' in­firmary, and a retreat house at Notre Dame; establishment of a novitiate in Minnesota, a seminary in Chile, and a high school in Illinois; mb­sion schools in Uganda, and the strengthening of those in Chile and East Pakistan. His funeral and burial were at the University on 
9
November 17. Rcquicscat in pace. 

^^pThe grant will be used to strengthen fac­ulty and lab facilities and establish a com­putor center. 



YOUR ALUMNI BOARD 
The gifts will qualify for a matching grant of $700,000 from the Ford Founda­tion. In addition, on December 4 the Car­negie Corporation announced that the Uni­versity will administer a $350,000 grant for a study of Catholic elementary and sec-
i ondar>* education. 
I N.D. Football Portraits Available for GiHs 
The .Athletic Office has announced a 
0 limited quantity of Football Portrait sets still as-ailablc for use as gifts or keepsakes. Four full color portraits commissioned for the covers of 1961 football programs, de-
I picting great sports figures (Knute Rockne, George Gipp, the Four Horsemen, Joe Bo-land) and suitable for framing, can be ordered at $2 per set from the Football Program Committee, Box 69, Notre Dame, Ind. A similar color portrait of the late Dr. Thomas Dooley of Notre Dame and Southeast Asia, used on the N.D.-Navy cover, can be ordered for an additional fifty cents. 

t # N.S.F. Announces Graduate ' - Fellowship Opportunities 
The National Science Foundation is ac­cepting applications for its 1962-63 pro­gram of regular graduate and postdoctoral fellowships. Final selection will be made and awards announced on March 15, 1962. 
h 
Fellowships will be awarded for study in the mathematical, physical, medical, biological, and engineering sciences: also in anthropology, psychology (excluding clinical psychology), geography, economics (excluding business administration), soci­^^ ology (not including social work), and the 
( ^ history and philosophy of science. They are open to college seniors, graduate and postdoctoral students, and others with equi\-alent training and experience. .All applicants must be citizens of the United States and will be judged solely on the basis of ability. 
-Applicants for the graduate awards will be required to take the Graduate Record Examination designed to lest scientific apti­tude and achievement. This examination, administered by the Educational Testing Sers'ice, will be given on January' 20, 1962, at designated centers throughout the United 
1 ^ States and certain foreign countries. 
Thc annual stipends for graduate Fel­
^ lows are as follows: $1800 for the first year: $2000 for the intermediate year; and $2200 for the terminal year. The annual stipend for postdoctoral Fellows is $5000. Limited allowances will also be provided to apply toward tuition, laboratory fees, and travel. 
Further information and application ma­terials may be obtained from the Fellowship Office, National Academy of Sciences-Na­tional Research Council, 2I0I Constitution .Avenue, N.W., Washington 25, D.C. The deadline for the receipt of applications for 
' regular postdoctoral fellowships is Decem­
•ber 18, 1961, and for graduate fellowships, January 5, 1962. 

Interim Director 

George Connor tendered his resignation from the Board last June because of busi­ness pressure. The resignation was ac­cepted with sincere regrets, and President Walter Fleming appointed Roger Huter. Louisville, Kentucky, to fill out George's unexpired term. Roger graciously accepted this appointment. 

Executive Committee: New Staffer 
On Executive Committee recommenda­tion, the Board moved the addition of a member to the Alumni Association staff to accelerate expansion of the Alumni Asso­ciation programs: Universal Notre Dame Nightj Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, the Class Reunions, and the Fresh­men reception programs. 

Fund Resolution 
The Alumni Board Committee on Foun­dation .-Mumni Fund and Gifts, submitted the following proposal to the entire Board of Directors of the .-Mumni Association for its consideration: 
"Because the present program for the future in which the University of Notre Dame seeks to secure $18,000,000 within a three-year period, is the most urgent and significant appeal ever made to its alumni and friends, and because the Ford Founda­tion has agreed to give to the University of Notre Dame, an unrestricted grant of $6,000,000 providing the University raises $12,000,000 of its $18,000,000 goal, in funds other than government or other Ford Foundation grants, by July, 1963, and be­cause such benefaction is the greatest ever received by the University from a single source, and because this generous grant and the University's decision to launch this intensive campaign, and because the Foun­dation story which led up to these condi­tions, have been based on a generous and widespread support of alumni, 
"Your .Alumni Board of Directors unani­mously endorses the recommendation of the Committee on Foundation .-Mumni Fund and Gifts and that every Notre Dame man be urged to take a strong personal part in this program for the future; that each alumnus be asked to consider a generous personal gift based on a new concept of sacrifice and capital giving to meet this great opportunity which may be the turn­ing point in the financial history of Notre Dame; that each alumnus of the many Foundation Committees join in the personal solicitation of alumni and to give such time as such solicitation will require; that each 
alumnus seek out friends, and other sources 
of additional giving for the University dur­
ing this critical challenge. 
"The Alumni Board not only offers its 
unanimous endorsement and effort, but its 
conviction that Notre Dame men will re­
spond with nothing less than total success." 

Spring Meeting Away 
Under Executive Committee discussion, a Board meeting away from the campus was proposed to stimulate regional alumni de­velopment. It was adopted that the May, 1962, meeting of the Alumni Board be held in New York City. 

Advisory Committees 
Also under the Executive Committee, a proposal for advisory committees within the Board, to effect a closer and more constructive liaison with University areas of alumni interest and significance^ was ad­\'anced. The proposal was subsequently drawn up, approved and presented to Father Joyce, executive vice-president, be­tween the June and October meetings. 
Thus were created .Advisory Committees within the Board of Directors of the Alumni .Association — based on present standing Board Committees familiar with these areas 
—
 to meet periodically — probably on the occasion of the three Board meetings on the campus — with the administrators of certain designated departments. The first meetings took place in October. 

I.
 Student Activities. A Committee of three members of the Board to counsel with the Vice-President for Student .Affairs. (Pat Dougherty, chairman: Jim Byrne, Roger Huter.) 


II. Athletic Affairs. -A Committee of three members of the Board to counsel with the Director of Athletics and other mem­bers of the .Athletic Department, including the Chairman of the Faculty Board in Con­trol of Athletics. (Bill Fallon, chairman: Bill Mahoney, Harry Mehre.) 
III. Admissions. .A Committee of three members of the Alumni Board would serve as an advisory group to the Director of .Admissions and his staff. (Jack Dempsey, chairman: John O'Connor, Maurice Car­roll.) 
IV. Public Relations. This is an area in which the Alumni Board hopes that its Committee on Prestige and Public Rela­tions may counsel with all areas of the University which indirectly or directly af­fect the public relations image of Notre Dame. (Ollie Hunter, chairman; Paul Gushing, Red Shea.) 


COMMUNION SUNDAY, 1961 
This year — 1961 — for the 24th Annual Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday — your .Alumni Board of Directors has urged a continuation of the basic theme of Personal Responsibility as called for by the Bishops' Statement of I960, and by the President's Commission on National Goals in the same year. 
IN -ADDITION, to focus on a timely and urgent target within this basic theme, the Board suggested that the 1961 meetings be devoted to discussion of the great Encyclical of Pope John XXIII, "Mater et Magistra." 
athletics 


DESPITE UPS AND DOWNS, HASSLES AND HUMILIATIONS. IRISH GRIDDERS LIVE UP TO PRE-SEASON PREDICTION 
It ^vas a spotty football season for Notre Dame, but perhaps the most thrilling in many years. It was a season in which nearly ever>'thing happened from the heights of brilliance to the depths of dis­appointment, but it was a season in which the Irish really fulfilled the prognostications of the cooler heads in athletic handi­capping. 
While some publications carried rosy 9-1 or 8-2 estimates, an article in Look magazine reported that the Irish were ex­pected to bounce back to 5-5 from the 2-8 low of 1960. They reached the break­even point by November 18, deprived of better by imponderables, key injuries, key penalties, key fumbles and key interceptions. 
They opened with successive victories over Oklahoma, 19-6, Purdue, 22-20, and Southern Cal, 30-0. Then came defeats administered by Michigan State, 17-7, Northwestern, 12-10, and Na\-y, 13-10. They bested Pittsburgh 26-20, then re­peated in a memorable thriller over Syra­cuse, 17-15. The finish with Duke in Durham on December 2 followed humili­ation at the hands of Iowa, 42-21, when a second-half comeback failed to overcome the obvious ps>"chological and ph>'sical stacking of cards. 

The 1961 season has to be considered one of the most exciting in Notre Dame foot­ball history. The first three defeats were by a total of 15 points. Two victories were won by two points apiece. There were radi­cal shifts from possession-type ground of­fense to wide-open passing play, both ac­companied by some of the most bruising line play in history. But wt h the season gone, Irish adherents from coast to coast tend to remember only one game and one play — Joe Perkowski's 41-yard field goal, against Syracuse November 18, which took place with no time remaining on the score­board clock because of a defensive infrac­tion by the Orange on what would have been the last play, an unsuccessful field goal attempt by Perkowski. 
Thus the Irish, while realizing their potential and showing greater promise for the future, participated in another rhubarb that will forever affect the rules of college football. 
— J.L. 
J 

The Directors and Staff of the Notre Dame 
Alumni Association wish you a 
Blessed Christmas and a Joyous New Year. 
paa»g^eesaesPasgasgSsge»aesBgsaesges^^ 
Entered as Second Class matter 


ALUMNUS Magazine 
October 1, 1939, at the Post Office, Vol. 39, No. 6 Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of" December, 1961 
August 24, 1912. 

Notre Dame, Ind. 
Return postage guaranteed 





