The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
LO Oc 
I n 1 s b o o •>.S>6e taken fr^.r., ^n- i.ibrarv 


Notre Dame 
OCT 
^ H

ALUMNUS 
^^Mt \^"!^ 
£LMER F . LAYDEN, LL.B., '25 Able Student Famous Horseman Inspiring Coach Notre Dame Gentleman 

October, 1934 
Oh, those days are gone forever. Now he'd shirk today from tar soap. 
COMMENT 
With the opening of another school year, no comment could be more in­teresting than that contained in the following memorable verses written by Reverend Thomas Burke, C.S.C., '07, and read at the Commencement Show in Washington Hall in June. 
THE OLD DAYS 

/
^ Let me tcll you of the old days. Of the old school and the old ways. Before men became effeminate and soft: WTien the students lived on beefsteak That would make your heart and teeth ache. And at every tender delicacy scoffed. 
They wore corduroy and jumpers. And they rode upon the bumpers When they came hero in September to enroll; And they carried knives and blackjacks, 'Stead of fountain pens and thumbtacks. For the men of old had spirit in their soul. 
Oh, those days are Rone forever. And I fear that they will never Be repeated on the campus any more; For the crcampuff's silken yellow Has replaced the iron fellow ^\^lo in past days slept upon the subway floor. 
/ 
Golf was rated then as croiiuet. Only those who carried sachet Ever dared to brinjr a brassie on the Krounds; And if once they were detected They were forcibly eject*?d As their classmate threw their carcass to the 
hounds. 
If ihey played a ukcleic They'd be tarred-and-feathered daily Till they learned to leave all music to the 
girls; Violins and horns and zithers Gave the boys of old the jitters. They were classed with powder-puffs and 
rouse and curls. 
And we fear that they may never Cast their shadow on the walls of Sorin Hall; We have now the student joker \Mio plays bridge instead of poker. And who listens to the tea room's siren call. 
The gaboons have long been taken From the Law Room. you*d be aching To see all the future lawyers chewing gum; And the feet that decorated All the desks, arc segregated To the dusty floor amid the germs and scum. 
It would make you feel still sadder If you knew the old rope ladder That was used at night, is gone for evermore; And the present generation When they go on a migration To South Bend, will walk right out the old 
front door. 
Oh, those days are Ronc forever. They will come back never, never. Men have changed since John L. Sullivan 
•was young; What today would pass for bravery Was to us conceit and knavery. And the heroes that we loved are now unsung. 
The old Hectors and Ulysses Are replaced by modem sissies \\Tio must always have hot water when they 
shave; They use ssap that's sweetly scented. Drink a liquor unfermented. And it's fluffy angel-food cake that they crave. 
It would fill your heart with sorrow To find out you couldn't borrow Shoes and overcoats and hat w*hen going out; Now each fellow has his own clothes. Has his shirts and tics' and half-hose. If you tried to borrow them he'd start to pout. 
Oh, those days are gone forever. Then the college boj-s were clever. Each one borrowed from his neighbor what 
he lacked; Now the student is a rotter Who plays tag and teeter-totter. And he hasn't a monoiwly on tact. 
And you certainly would bar hope If you gave him old Dutch cleanser for his 
bath; And he'd think you came from Siwash If you used straight gin for eyewash. And mads toothpicks from an ordinary lath. 
Every man was his own snow plough In the old days, each one knew how To take winter's sock upon the chin; And you'd never hear complaining » Through for weeks it might be raining. For the looked on any hardship with a grin. 
Oh, those days are gone forever. And though vainly we endeavor To revive them, they are permantly dead; We may haw our heads in pity • As we mourn the wise and witty. But we'll miss the measured music of their 
tread. 
The refectories have faded Where we went when we were jaded To partake of a repast three times a day; ^\^le^e the hash rose up to greet us And the fish came out to meet us. And the rhubarb wished us "God speetl" on 
our way. 
We were never heard to mutter If the sheer strength of the butter Almost pushed our weary bodies from the 
chair; If the cheese walked out and quit us. And the eggs stoo<l up to twit us We were never wholly driven to despair. 
Oh, those days are gone forever. And though time may try to sever From our hearts the mentory of bygone years; We shall cherish them and love them For.the ghosts that walk above them. Though they're hidden in a misty haze of 
tears. 
Now the boys wear spats and collars. 
And they squander hard earned dollars 
On a twist they've known only for a week: They eat lolly-pops and pickles. 
And the name of Louie Nickels Is supplanted by one Stratagos. a Greek. 
(Continued on Page 30) 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION of The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration BIdg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
DISTRICT GOVERNORS 
District 1. Timothy P. Galvin. *1B. Hammond, Indiana 
District 2. James H. Brennan. '20. Chicago. Illinois 
District 3. Rev. M. L. Moriarty. "10, Qeveland, Ohio 
District 4. Daniel Coughlin, '22, Waseca, Minn, 
District 5. Joseph F. Sanford, '21. Muskegon, Michigan 
District 6. John Purccll. '26. Fanwood. New Jersey 
District 7. William A. Daunt. '08. Long Island City. New York 
District 8. Leo Kollcy. *22. Syracuse, New York 
District 9. Charles Grimes. '20, Providence, Rhode Island' District 10. Forest Fletcher. *12. Lexington. Va. District 11. Matthew M. O'Brien. '31, Tampa, Fla. District 12. Edward H. Pfeiffer, *22, Louisville, Kentucky District 13. Robert Evans. Jr.. '28. Vicksburg, MissrgsU'Pi" • / . District 14. James P. Swift, '24. Dallas, Texas *,' V i -','. District 15. Edgar F. Moran, '17, Tulsa, Oklahoma District 16. R. Gerald Jones. '22. Dbcon, Illinois •*• .-. District 17. Thomas C. Kasper, '21. Brookings, South *4aCota District 18. Robert Fox, *01, Denver Colorado » ••* • 
District 19. .Tamos H. Bach. '07, San Diego, California District 20. Keene Fitzpatrick, '13, San Francisco, California District 21. James L. Hope. *11, Astoria, Oregon District 22. Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris, France 
^ 


ALUMNI BOARD 
FRAXK C. WALKEI, '09---------- Honorar>- President TIMOTHY P. GALMX, '16 ------------- President BERXARO J. VoLL, *17---------- First Vice-President GRATTAN T . STAXTORD, '04-------- Second Vice-President JXMES E. ARMSTROXC, *£5 --------- Secretary-Treasurer WILLIAM R . DOOLEY, '26---------- Assistant Secretary 
r RoifeRT E. LYNCH, 'OS-------------- Director 
I HUSH A. O'DOXXELL, '94------------- Director 
* PnED L, STEERS, *ll --------------- Director ^JASIES E. DEERY, '10--------------- Director ;M{ HARRY MILLER. '10----------(ex officio) Director 
SivMES S. KEARNS, '34----------Cone year) Director 




The Notre uame Alumnus 
JAIIES E. AUMSTnONC, '25, The mafrazinc is published monthly durinfr the scholastic year by the Alumni Association . Alember of the American Editor o£ the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 
Alumni Council. 

a year: the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of §5.00 include 
•\VlLUA3r R, DOOLEY, '26. a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, Member of Nafl. Catholic 
1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1379. All 
Associate Editor 

correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 81, Notre Dame. Ind. AliunnI Federation 
VOL. XIII OCTOBER, 1934 No. 1. 
93rd SCHOOL YEAR OPENS TO 'VICTORY MARCH' 
Increase in Enrollment; Heralded and Popular Administration; New Athletic Heads; New Buildings; All Carry on the Far-Sighted Vision of Sorin. 
The University of Notre Dame du Lac opened its doors for the 93rd year of its history on September 11th. 
Under the guidance of the Rev. John P. O'Hara, CS.C, '11, elevated to the Presidency in July, the Uni­versity begins a year which is in keeping with all the old and new tra­ditions of Notre Dame. 
That the old are in safe hands is indicated by the address Father O'Hara delivered in August from Indianapolis, reprinted in this issue. 
(Cf. p. 5). 
That the new traditions, the Great­er Notre Dame, move steadily on­ward, is evidenced in the completion of the new laundrj' building, giving a modern laundry service to all stu­dents and to the University, the vir­tual completion of the new Notre Dame PostofRce, the completion and occupancy of the beautiful new Novi­tiate of the Congregation at EoUing Prairie, Ind., the establishment of the first preparatory seminary of the Holy Cross Congregation in the East at North Dartmouth, Mass., — these are physical evidence. Further build­ing plans were contained in the June ALUMNUS under the President's ad­dress, delivered by Father O'Hara at Commencement. 
More satisfyingly significant from a purely University standpoint is the evidence of the rapid academic ad­vance being made in the appointment and ti-aining of members of the fac­ulty. 
Returning to the faculty after ex­perience in other fields are: 
Rei-. Eugene Burke, CS.C, '06, who becomes head of the department of English; Rev. Arthur B. Hope, CS.C, '20, who will teach philoso­phy; Rev. James E. Kline, CS.C, '22, who returns from graduate study at the Calif. Inst, of Tech. to teach astronomy and mathematics; Rev. William J. Lyons, CS.C, '17, who returns to the history depax-t­ment; Rev. George Marr, CS.C, who heads the department of Reli­gion; Rev. T. Francis Butler, CS.C, '19, ^\nll teach sociology; Rev. James Quinlan, CS.C, '08, who is to teach economics; and Rev. William Mc­
Namara, CS.C, '17, who becomes head of the department of History. New men this year are: 
Thomas J. Barry, '25, who is han­dling academic publicity and teaching several courses in the department of Journalism; Emanuel Chapman, who comes to Notre Dame's philosophy staff from Manhattan College; Frank 
Neio Notre Dame Postoffice 

T. Flynn, graduate student in '29­'30, who joins the sociologj' depart­ment after probation experience in Chicago, bringing a senior member­ship in the American Society of So­cial Workers; and LeRoy J. Wilkins, Ph.D., who joins the education fac­ultj-, after teaching at St. Teresa's College, Winona, Minn. 
New members of the Congregation assigned to Notre Dame faculty posi­tions are: 
Rev. Joseph J. Corcoran, CS.C, '.SO. relirion: Rev. Robert King, CS.C, '30, religion; Rev. George T. Meagher, CS.C, '30, religion; Rev. Maurice Rigley, CS.C., '27, religion; 
New Notre Dame Laundry 

Rev. William Scandlon, CS.C, '30, religion, and Rev. James D. Trahey, CS.C, '30, religion. 
Equally important to the continued academic progress of the University is the list of leaves of absence granted to members of the Congrega­tion for advanced study here and abroad: 
Rev. Leo R. Ward, CS.C, '23, has returned to Oxford to study Greek Philosophy. He is the author of a new book for the fall market, to be published in October by Sheed and Ward. Rev. William Coughlin, CS.C, '29, and Rev. Howard Kenna, CS.C, '26, are doing graduate work at John Hopkins. Rev. Thomas Kelly, CS.C, '24, is completing his Doctor's work at CU. in the classics. At CU. also Rev. John O'Connell, CS.C, '30, continues sociological study. 
The Medieval Institute of Studies 
of St. Michael's College, Toronto, 
draws Rev. Bernard McAvoy, CS.C, 
'29, for philosophical research. 
Rev. George Baldwin, CS.C, '24, will study advanced mathematics at the U. of Chicago. Rev. Henry Bol­ger, CS.C, '24, remains at the Calif. Inst, of Tech. to continue his studies in physics. 
Advanced work at Notre Dame is being done by Rev. John Lane, CS.C, '30, in English research, and Rev. Raymond Norris, CS.C, '25, in the archives. 
New rectors are always of interest to the alumni who have lived in the halls whose destinies they guide. 
Seven rectors of residence halls re­mained unchanged from last year. Of interest is the departure of Rev. Charles McAllister, CS.C, enthusias­tic promoter of the past Linnet Mus­ical Club shows and rector of Fresh­man hall. He has gone to Columbia University, Portland, as professor. Rev. Thomas Kelly, CS.C, last year's rector of St. Edward's hall, has gone to prepare for his doctor's degree in classics at Holy Cross College, Wash­ington, D. C 
Replacing the departed rectors are Rev. George Marr, CS.C, new rector of Walsh hall; Rev. James Fogarty, CS.C, Freshman hall; Rev. Henry Glueckert, CS.C, Howar d hall; Brother Justin, CS.C, Brownson hall; Rev. John Reynolds, CS.C, St. Edward's hall; Rev. P. Gassensmith, CS.C, rector of Dillon. 
The total enrollment in the Uni­(Continued on Pase 12) 
The "^otre 'Dame cAlumnus October, 1934 


WC Tec, I^NCW 
W
E'RE at practice 24 hours a day—every day—and we've been in training for years. We've learned how to work smoothly and quietly. ... . so efficiently that our guests rarely realize the "team-work" behind every act of service they enjoy at the McAlpin. 
Your comfort and welfare is our chief concern while you are here. We take pains to anticipate your every wish and whim. We've succeeded, too, in so perfecting McAlpin service that we don't hesi­tate to GUARANTCE 100% satisfaction to every guest. 
Perhaps that's why so many people return to the McAlpin, year after year. And, too, that may be the reason why it has been our pleasure and privilege to serve the team of Notre Dame and its contingent on their atmual visit to New York. 
At any rate, we're always proud to be selected as New York Headquarters. . . . and, this year, as always we again hope to be of service to the faculty, the committee, the team and the student body of Notre Dame. 
John J. Woelfle, Manager. 
ROOMS -with BATH from 
$2.50 per day, single $4.00 double $4.50 twin-bedded 

HOTEL MCALPIN 
"The Centre of Convenience" 
BROADWAY AT THIRTY-FOURTH STREET 
October, 1934 The '^otre 'Dame c/llnmnus 

MIDLAND NATURALIST HAS ANNIVERSARY 
LATE CLUB NEWS 
The American Midland Naturalist 

celebrated in April, 1934, the twenty-fifth anniversary of its founding by the Rev. J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C. 
This happy event was fittingly celebrated by the publication, in May, 1934, of a special number containing contributions by students, members and friends of the Department of Biology which was dedicated to the Rev. J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C, founder and editor for this period, as a token of appreciation and recognition of his work in the field of botany. 
In April, 1909, Father Nieuwland issued the first number of the journal then called The Midland Naturalist, setting forth a series of policies guid­ing the further development of the new venture. The name was soon changed into The American Midland Naturalist serving as such for the publication of papers dealing \\ith 
Gipp Memorial Planned 

For reasons known to Notre Dame men, nothing has been done during the years following the death of George Gipp in 1920 to commemo­i-ate his career at Notre Dame in any­thing but the traditions of the Uni­versity. 
That this has been done beyond the power of stone or metal to equal is beside the point, when the public, unaware of the depth of the Gipp epic, comes upon the little grave in Laurium. 
When Charley Bachman became head coach at Michigan State his work took him to Gipp's home town and bx'ought him into contact with George's mother. From this meeting has evolved a plan and a permission. 
-4.t the Monogram Luncheon last June, Lawrence McNerney, '06, El­gin, 111., was appointed by Director of Athletics Elmer Layden, '25, to act as chairman of a Committee to raise a nominal sum—§1,500 was de­cided upon—^within the circle of Mon­ogram men, to erect a suitable, mod­est marker, and provide perpetual care for the grave of the Notre Dame hero. 
Assisting Mr. McNerney are Rev. 

M. L. Moriarty, '10, 1900 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, who is acting as ti-easurer in the collection of the Fund; John J. "Wallace, '27, Calumet City, Illinois; Edward J. Meehan, '20, South Bend; John Montague, '23, Chicago; Charles Bachman, '17, East Lansing; Gus Dorais, '14, Detroit; Robert Phelan, '22, East Orange, New-Jersey; and Chet Wynne, '22, Lex­ington, Ky. 
The campaign is being conducted quietly among the Monogram men this Fall, with a hope of completing the Fund at an early date. 
the natural history of the Midwest though not narrowed to this area by a strict application of this principle. The past 25 years have shown the need of such an outlet for scientific work which enjoys world-wide circu­lation and recognition. Thus the hopes and expectations of the founder have materialized and tested his vision. Ad multos annos! 
Among the well-known contributors now dead, are: Rev. A. M. Kirsch, C.S.C; Brother Alphonsus, C.S.C; Dr. Edward Lee Greene, former asso­ciate of the Smithsonian Institute and professor of botany at Catholic Uni­versity w^hose library and herbarium were willed to the University; Dr. J. Lunnell; Dr. Theodor Holm of the Department of Agriculture, Washing­ton, D.C All groups of animals, plants, fossils and geological prob­lems are treated. 

'34 Officers Named 

In a bui-st of enthusiasm and a paucity of Ballots—due to a heedless union of Ballot and bill—nevertheless the continuing relations of the Class of '34 now rest in an able triumvi­rate of veterans of that active group. 
Jim Moscow, Class President, being in the only modern position that per­mits wide acquaintance, was chosen Secretary, to keep the '34 Column of this publication reeking with news of the Class. Jim is at 2320 N. Lawn-dale Ave., Chicago. 
Jim Keams, Editor of the Scho­lastic, being deemed to have the most responsive finger on the pulse of the Class, was named Director for the Association Board for the current year, to sit with the elders and ad­vise them of the dreams the young men are dreaming. 
Least understood and least desired of the offices—more a vote of faith than fact — the Living Endowment Representative is George Shields, whose grief on the S.A.C. equips him admirably for the task. The idea of the Living Endo^vment is simple. There were 517 member's of the Class. Had the Class been asked to leave a Fund of ?10,340 for the Uni­versity when it graduated, or to raise that much money this year, for in­stance, the reaction requires little imagination. But suppose such a fund existed, invested wisely and well, and with no little difficulty at 5%. The annual income would be §517.00. Now the moral is clear,— if each member of the Class gave but $1 each year, as much concrete good to the school results as if the §10,340 had been left on June 3, 1934. 
From the above trio of officers, the Class can easily draw the promise of adequate representation, and the Association the assurance of an ac­tive Class. 
JOLIET 
I hope the report of the summer activities of our club will not reach your desk too late for publication. 
We have been fairly active during the past summer months. Our regu­lar monthly meetings have been drawing an average group of mem­bers. In June a meeting was held in the Woodruff Hotel for prospec­tive students. Each member was urged to bring a young man. Our success in the matter can best be judged by the three new students en­rolled this year. 
The annual outing was held the third week-end in June at Horrigan's Shack on the Kankakee River and was very well attended. Several ex­ecutives of A Century of Progress were our honored guests. 
BROTHER LAWRENCE JOSEPH, a former member of our club, and now stationed in St. Joseph, Mo. was present at a "get together" in his honor during July. 
CLYDE ROBERTS, '34, brilliant track star, is our newest member. He is now an employee of the Public Service Co, of No. Ill,, as is yours truly, 
ED KING, one of our most popu­lar members, had a birthday recently and it became the occasion of quite a celebration. Our worthy president, JOE SILK, has been in Minnesota during most of the summer. We ex­pect him back with us very soon. 
This just about tells our story for the present. Best wishes for a ban­ner year and continue to count on our heartiest co-operation. 
THOS. P. FEELY, Jr., Secretary. 
• 

KENTUCKY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KENTUCKY— Eugene J. Steuerle. '23. 1139 Willow Ave. Louisville. Ky., President: John Bannon, *32, 2011 Shenvood. Louisville, Ky., Secre­tary. 
The letter recently sent to H, OHLIGSCHLAGER has been turned over to the writer as the new secre­tary of the Club of Kentuck-y. 
At the last meeting in the spring the annual election of offiers took place. 
E. J, STEURLE, '25, was elected president, MURRAY GLASGOW, '29, of Detroit, but now located in Louis­ville, was elected vice-president, ED­W-ARD P. MORAN was elected treasurer, and JOHN BANNON, '32, was elected secretary. 
Since there has been no meeting during the summer months there is verj' little news that can be sent on to the -ALUMNUUS. However after our next meeting I hope to have plenty of news. 
The entire Club is in back of the team this year and many of us hope to see some of the games, thus lend­
(Continued on Pase 8) 

The 'iSlotTe 'Dame cAlumnus October, 1934 




THREE ALUMNI 
CIRCUMEDITOR — The Log, a brilliant organ of the Circumna\'i­gators Club, consisting only of men who have completed a round-the­world trip, is now being edited bj-Louis C. M. Reed, '00. 
LOUIS C. M. REED, '00 
Editor, Exporter, Essayist. 
Editor Reed is at present an ex­
porter, with offices in New York City, 
at 19-25 West 44th Street. 
During his term at Notre Dame he 
was secretai-y to Father Andrew 
Alorrissey, and was interested in the 
various publications at the University 
at that time, and a constant contrib­
utor to them. 
After leaving Notre Dame he went in with an industrj' that required a great deal of foreign ti-avel, and he eventually became an independent exporter. He has lived in almost every countiy in the world; has gone around the world twelve times and has crossed the North Atlantic more than sixty times. He has been with various export publications, has de­livered lectures on export trade and written many essays on this subject. He has a book of, "Snappy Talks for Foreign Salesmen," published under the name of Professor Bojak. This book has been sold to almost every one who has ever attempted exporting. 
In recent years he has made a specialty of exploiting American Pat­ents abroad by forming companies to operate them, and has made quite a success in this undertaking. 
With his wife he lives on an estate 
at Ridgefield, Conn., where he con­
ducts a comfortable farm. 
His brother, Russell, who has had 
much the same career as himself, and 
who was at Notre Dame at the same 
time, lives nearly on a similar estate. 
NO MANANA—Pedro de Landero came to Notre Dame in the Fall of 1907, and was drafted immediately into executive duties with the Latin-American Club, and to the best of our knowledge hasn't had an idle moment since. The traditional lei­sure that lies below the Rio Grande finds no place in Pedro other than softness of speech and culture of manner. 
The usual hope of a career at home that lies in all students was blasted for Pedro after a most aus­picious start that carried him through many ambitious and important gov­ernment projects. At a time when merit would have called for the har­vesting of deserved reward, political upheavals virtually exiled him. 
Notre Dame has always offered 
PEDRO DE LANDEKO, '11 
Inspiring Professor, Coach. 
sanctuary to her alumni, and it must have been with special significance that Pedro de Landero returned here, where men and principles reach far beyond national boundaries. 
Recognizing expediency, Pedro has moved his family here where he turned to teaching. Two fine sons are students at the University. 
But in his teaching there is noth­ing of the despair of a frustrated ca­reer. In his manner there is noth­ing of the self-pitying victim of in­justice. 
The fires that Pedro de Landero's 
CHARLES P. KAHLER, '04 
Behind the stream, lines. 
fellow students knew bum brighter with the fuel of years of experience. The brilliance that w^as once at the service of the Mexican government now serves the students of Spanish with an understanding fervor that few teachers could bring to such classes. 
Surplus energies surge within this mild personage to such an extent that when his Latin-American boys organized a soccer team; when fenc­ing and swordsmanship became the interest of a student group; when the tennis team needed a coach; when the Lay Faculty Club was seeking repre­sentative leadership, Pedro de Lan­dero responded with all his energy, all his ability, all his unselfish love of the things that are Notre Dame, of the boys and the men who make up the manifestation of it. 
Pedro can go back to Mexico now. He and his family visited there this summer. But he has become an in­tegral part of Notre Dame. If he should choose to leave, let it be— manana. 
ENGINEER — All the engineers on railroads aren't Casey Jones. A lot of engineering has to go into a railroad before she comes around the mountain. It is in this phase that Charles P. Kahler, C.E. '04, system electrical engineer for the Union Pa­
(Continucd on Page 12) 

October, 1934 The ^ot r e 'Dame cA lumnus 
LAETARE MEDAL PRESENTED TO MRS. BRADY 
Brilliant Assembly Witnesses Conferring of Decoration Upon Outstsmding American Laywoman by Rev. George Sauvage, C.S.C., Procwator General. 
(The June ALUMNUS carried a brief account of the presentation in Rome of the 193i Laetare Medal to Mrs. Genevieve Garvan Brady. It is with particular pleasure, hoivever, that the following full story of the beautiful ceremony, is presented — Editor) 
In Rome, on the evening of June 6, the Verj' Rev. George M. Sauvage, 
C.S.C. (LL.D., '18), Procurator Gen­eral of the Congi-egation of Holy Cross and Rector of Holy Cross Col­lege, on behalf of the University, presented the Laetare Medal for 1934 to Mrs. Genevieve Gan'an Brady. Through the courtesy of the Rector, Rt. Rev. Msgr. Burke, and with the kind assistance of the Very Rev. Fi-. Fitzgei-ald, Spiritual Director, and of the Rev. Fr. Cody, the ceremony took place in the reception-room of the Pontifical North American College. 
To honor Mrs. Bi-ady on this occa­sion and to expi-ess their pleasure at the distinction conferred upon her by Notre Dame were present Their Emi­nences, Luigi Cardinal Sincero, Car­dinal-Bishop of Palestrina, and Sec­retary of the Sacred Congi-egation for the Oriental Church, Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli, Secretaiy of State of His Holiness, and President of the Pontifical Commission for the codifi­cation of Oriental ecclesiastical law, and Pietro Cardinal Fumasoni-Biondi, former Apostolic Delegate to the United States, and now Prefect of the Sacred Congregation of the Propaganda. 
Accompanying His Eminence Car­dinal Pacelli was His Excellency Msgr. Giuseppe Pizzardo, Under-Secretaiy of State and Secretary of the Sacred Congregation for Extraor­dinai-y Affairs, with Msgr. Alfredo Ottaviani and Msgr. Domenico Tar­dini fi-om the Secretariate of State of the Vatican. Adding still more brilliance to the occasion were Their Excellencies Msgr. Francesco Bor­gongini Duca, Papal Nuncio to the Court of Italy, and Msgr. Camillo Caccia-Dominioni, Majordomo of the Vatican, Msgr. Hemmick, Canon of the Basilica of St. Mary Major, Msgi-. Enrico Pucci, Roman correspondent of the N.C.W.C. news service, and others, were among the distinguished guests. 
The countless religious Orders and Congregations of Rome w^ere well 
BY EDWAED HESTON, C.S.C. 

(Student at the Holy Cross College in Rome) 
represented: the Very Rev. Vladimir Ledochowsky, S.J., General of the Society of Jesus, accompanied by the Rev. Emil Mattern, S.J., Assistant General for the United States and his secretary, the Rev. Fr. Grattan, S.J., the Verj' Rev. Vincent McCormick, Rector of the Pontifical Gregorian University, the Very Rev. John O'Rourke, S.J., former Rector of the Pontifical Biblical Institute, the Rev. Fathers Leo Keeler, Clement Fuerst, and Henry Renard, S.J., professors in the Gregorian University, the Very Rev. Dr. Joseph .4. Hiekey, O.S.A., -Assistant General of the Augustin­ians, the Veiy Rev. Father McEn­niiy, C.SS.R., Assistant General of the Redemptorists, the Very Rev. Raphael Huber, O.F.M.C., Confessor of St. Peter's, the Rev. Vincent Don­ovan, O.P., member of the Dominican Liturgical Commission, the Very Rev. Father Jarrett, C.S.P., acting Rector of the American Church of Santa Susanna, the Veiy Rev. John J. Con­sidine, M.M., Procurator General and Rector of the College of the Ameri­can Foreign Mission Society of Mary-knoll, and others. 
Foremost among the guests from the Vatican City and diplomatic cir­cles were Their Excellencies, the Jlarquis Camillo Serafini, Governor of the Vatican City, the Marquis Francesco Pacelli, Counsellor of State of the Vatican City, Mrs. Breck­enridge Long,wife of the Ambassador of the United States to the Court of Italy, Mr. Alexander Kirk, of the American Embassy Staff, His Excel­lency Mr. W. J. D. Mc.\ulay, Minister of the Irish Free State to the Holy See, the Signorine Pizzardo, Rosvilde Ottaviani, the Signoi-a Rosa Borgon­gini Duca etc. In addition to these there were Mr. Hewlett, Director of the American Academy of Art in Rome, and Ing. Comm. Enrico Gale­azzi. Director of the Roman activities of the Knights of Columbus. 
From the noble and patrician fam­ilies of Rome, the occasion was hon­ored by the presence of Their Excel­lencies the Prince and the Princess Barberini di Palestrina, the Prince and the Princess Orsini, the Prince and the Princess Doria-Pamphilj, the Princess Rospigliosi, the Duke and the Duches Salviati, Donna Maria De Luca, Don Francesco and Donna Beatrice Theodoli, Sig. Comm. Tom­assetti and wife, Mr. Alexander Jor­danow. Master of Cape and Sword in the Papal Court, and Mrs. Jorda­now, and still others too numerous to mention. 
The large colony of -Americans resident in Rome was widely repre­sented. Among ,others were: Rev. Mother St. Luke, of the Sisters of the Holy Child Jesus, the Misses Handley, the Misses McMurrough, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Boon, Miss Lind­say, Mr. and Mrs. Nelson O'Shough­nessy, Mrs. A. C. J. Kelly, Miss Norah Stourton, Colonel Landis, etc. 
Nor was the iVlumni Association without its part in the ceremony. The Rev. Julius A. Nieuwiand, C.S.C, Ph.D., Sc.D., nationally known for his research in the field of chemistry and for his recent discovery of syn­thetic rubber, and who was in Rome as one of the honorary delegates from the United States to the Inter­national Congress of Acetylene, was prominent among the honored guests. Besides the students of Holy Cross College, the Rev. Thomas Tobin 
(A.B. '20) was present, as well as Mr. E. Bourke Motsett (A.B. '31), Mr. Loras Lane (Ph.B. in Com. '32), and Mr. Edward O'Malley, a student at Notre Dame from 1930 to 1932, all of whom are now preparing for the priesthood at the Pontifical North American College. 
After reading of the formal ad­dress and the presentation of the medal by the Very Reverend Proc­urator General, which was greeted with the hearty applause of the as­sembly. Their Eminences the Cardi­nals came forward to present their felicitations to Mrs. Brady, and were followed by all the guests. After­wards all descended to the tastefully-arranged College dining-room where an informal reception was held and refreshments served. 
Graced by the splendor of cardinal­atial scarlet and the dignity of epis­copal purple, honored by the partici­pation of almost innumerable mem­beK of religious Orders, the diplo­matic service and the Roman nobility, the presentation of the Laetare Medal for 1934 was an event of which all Notre Dame may be justly proud. It was a day which made Notre Dame better known and better loved, a day which was worthy in all respects of the renowned Medallists in whose ranks Mrs. Brady takes her place, no less than of Notre Dame's own glories and traditions. 
Late Club News 
(Continued from Pace 5) 

ing a little more than just moral sup­
port. I hope you have a prosperous 
year in every wav. 
JOHN B.4.NN0N. 
• 

LOS ANGELES Pursuant to your request I hereby take my Remington in hand and set down on paper a few random thoughts. Weather has, of course been of the very choicest and as a result the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles has had a fairly active summer season. Our fair city has been ^-isited by only a very few of our Notre Dame breth­ren despite this weather and activity. In past summers many have seen fit to call on us but this year only two such came to our attention, those being Chicago's genial secretary, NEIL HURLEY, and the REV. MI­CHAEL MULCAIRE, C.S.C, now at Columbia in Oregon. LAURIE VE­JAR and JOHNNY O'BRIEN cannot verj' well be called visitors but they were with us only a short while he-fore they both hopped off for St. Ed­ward's, Notre Dame's Texas cousin, where they will handle the coaching reins. 
We sincerelv regret the passing of FATHER CHARLES O'DONNELL, a Ecreat figure and an inspiring man. The Mass and Communion offered by the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles is recalled here as having been a fit offering to God for the repose of that magnificent soul. 
The annual summer outing at the beach was a complete success, mute evidence of the fact that beer, pret­zels, steaks, poker and "'stuff like that" is still popular among our mem­bers. 
The Notre Dame Club retreat was 

a complete failure as a club activity 
but those who made it were well re­
paid for having spared those few 
hours to God. 
Being a more or less conscientious secretary I T^-ill novr retire to grieve over the manifold shortcomings of both myself and the Los Angeles group in general. 
DOUG DALEY. 
• 

NEW YORK CITY The Annual Reception to the grad­uates of the 1934 class residing in the metropolitan area was held at the New York Athletic Club on July 2, 1934. It was a very warm night and everj'one enjoyed a swim in the pool before a buffet supper was served. We were honored on having with us on that occasion REV. ROBERT 
W. KING, C.S.C., who had just been ordained at Notre Dame the previous week. 
On September 6 in Hurley's Res­taurant a Beefsteak and Beer party 
The °HotTe "D a me cAlumnus 
was staged as a farewell to those 
undergraduates in our district who 
were returning to Notre Dame the 
following week. 
Plans are now being made for the 

Dinner Dance to be held after the 
Notre Dame-Army game on Novem­
ber 24. This year the Biltmore Hotel 
^\^ll be the place, and $3.75 per plate 
the price. 
Last year we were unable to take 

care of everyone that wanted to at­
tend the Dinner Dance. Anyone that 
is planning to be in New York for 
the Army game can make his reser­
vations now for the Dinner Dance 
by writing to the Secretary, J. N. 
GELSON, 1201 Trov Avenue, Brook­
lyn, N. Y. 
'The weekly luncheons are still be­

ing held on Tuesdays in Hurley's 
Restaurant, 144 Pulton Street, New-
York CiU', 12 -2 P. M. 
DOC GELSON. 

WOMEN'S CLUB 
The Women's Club of the Notre Dame Alumni Association held its annual business meeting on July 14, 1934 in Washington Hall at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame with Sister Mary Frederick, C. S. C, presiding. Greetings from the President, Sister Agnes Alma, O.P. were read and in­teresting reports were given by the various standing committees. The Committee on Notre Dame Literature paid special tribute to Father Charles O'Donnell, C.S.C, Father Daniel Hudson, C.S.C, and to Charles Phil­lips. The club resolved to keep the memory of these three literary writ­ers by reading and advertising their works. A letter from Mr. James E. Armstrong gave many valued sugges­tions. It was resolved that the Women's Club go on record as sup­porting the crusade for better pic­tures. An active support of the Cath­olic Press was also pledged. 
In the ALUMNUS this coming 

year books of current interest to 
Catholic women •will be reviewed. The 
committee chosen for this work con­
sists of Sister M. Joan of Arc, O.S.F., 
Sister Mary Blanche, O.P., Sister M. 
Vivia, O.S.B., Sister M. Ursula, 
O.S.U., and Sister M. Roberta, 
S.S.N.D. 
The Rev. John O'Hara, president of 

the University spoke briefly express­
ing his appreciation for the prayers 
and good wishes extended to him. For 
the Rev. Charles O'Donnell a Requi­
em High Mass was offered July 25 by 
the members of the club. 
Sister Mary Frederick, C.S.C. was elected president of the Women's Club, Sister Mary Jerome, O.S.U. first vice-president'and Sister Mary Edwardine, R.S.M., the second vice-president. The new committees ap­pointed by the president are: 
Permanent Resolutions Committee: 
Sister M. Eleanore, C.S.C; Sister October, 1934 
Aurelia, S.C; Sister M. Fidelia, 
I.H.M. 
Notre Dame Literature: Sister M. 

Eleanore, C.S.C; Sister M. Aloysi, 
S.N.D.; Sister M. Aquin, O.P. 
Data for the Alumni Directory: 

Sister M. Agnes Alma, O.P.; Sister 
M. Louis Irene, C.S.C; Sister M. Ce­cilia, R.S.M., Grand Rapids; Sister Miriam Therese, I.H.M.; Sister M. Seraphine, S.N.D, de Namur. 
Monthly Bibliography: Sister M. Joan of Arc, O.S.F.; Sister M. Blanche, O.P.; Sister M. Vivia, O.S.B.; Sister Ursula, O.S.U., Toledo, Ohio;. Sister M. Roberta, S.S.N.D. 
Studies in the Teaching Field: Sis­

ter M. Veronique, C.S.C; Sister M. 
De Sales, S.P., Sister M. David, 
S.CN. 
Social Committee, 1935: Sister M. 

Vincent, O.S.U.; Sister M. des Vic­
toires, C.S.C; Miss Marie Mehling. 
The social meeting arranged by Sister St. Flavia's committee was held Saturday afternoon July 21 in Washington Hall at which the follow­ing program was given: 
The Fountain-^Hammond 
Saint Mari''s Voice Ensemble 

Piano Solo 
Rhapsody in G. minor, Ap. 79 No. 2 Brahms 
Sister Mariam Patricia, O.P., Newburgh, N.Y. 
Reading—^The Passing of the ^Vhite Swan 
Sister Paschal, O.P., Adrian, Michigan Violin SoIo~-Sccne de Ballet ,™ De Beriot Sister Saint Flavia, S.S.J.. Brighton, Mass. Adoranneo te Christe -. Dubois Tollite Hostias Saint-Sacns Saint Mary's Voice Ensemble 
Refreshments were served after the 

program through the kindness of Mr. 
Connolly and the compliments of 
Father O'Hara. 
The final enjoyable social event was the dinner on the closing day of the summer session given by the Uni­versity in the Dining Hall. Sister M. Frederick, C.S.C, Mr. Dooley and Fr. Hugh O'Donnell were speakers. 
Thirty-nine new members were added to the Women's Club this year. Copies of the Constitution and Club Director were presented to each. The Women's Club is indeed proud of its new president who received at the Summer Session Commencement the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. 
Rose C Steffaniak, Secretary 
LATE CLASS NEWS 

1910 
Things are always getting dull or picking up in the charity line and just now most people are attempting to pick up. My time is not exactly my own these days and after my two days at Notre Dame I rushed home into the open season on meetings. 
I had promiised myself an effort to 
{Continued on Page 12) 


EDITORIAL 
THE NEW ADMINISTRATION 
The ALUMNUS comes late and comes needlessly, but comes sincerely, to echo the chorus of genuine welcome that swelled to the announcement of the election of the Reverend John P. O'Hara, C.S.C., '11, to the presidency of the University. 
Seldom in the annals of Notre Dame, annals filled with great friendships, has a priest or layman so endeared himself to that annual entity known as the student body. 
For many years almost half that body shared at the morning Communion i-ail the supreme fruition of his spiritual zeal. The others have felt an admiration akin to that of the layman who \'iews a masterpiece, unable similarly to wield a brush, but knowing that here is art. 
No wonder, then, that the new Pi-esident is more than an executive, more than an educator, more than an ordinary confessor to literally hundreds of Notre Dame men since the years that he was a student here. 
That this will be reflected in administrative contacts with alumni is already evident. A year as acting Presi­dent launched his administration with a background of experience. He has surrounded himself with a corps of able, familiar figures in the executive history of Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame has buried many great men, sorrowed by the inevitable sense of personal loss, comforted always by the knowledge that in all her history God has never failed to provide continuing talents in the official suc­cession. 
Spiritually, academically, even physically, the Greater Notre Dame goes on toward that perfection attainable only in that one answer to the University's very being —God. 
NEW YEAR 
Custom inevitably involves the alumnus, as it involved him while a student, with the feeling that a new year is beginning vyith the opening of school in September. Registration is, therefore, in spite of a summer crammed with Alunmi Office activity and with contacts connoting equal activity among the Clubs and indiridual alumni, the starter's gun for another big scholastic year of activ­ity for Notre Dame in the field—the alumni and Notre Dame at home. 
The increased enrollment at Notre Dame i-eflects splendid work and spirit among Notre Dame men every­where. That it will be complemented by the traditional spirit of Notre Dame and the work of the men on the campus goes without saying. 
of childhood habits. It is more than an intellectual form­ing of Faith. It is a living, growing thing that is blended in the nature of the Notre Dame man as his mind and his body grows through his years here. Everything that goes with this glowing Catholicity becomes an integral part of him. 
Much of it is symbolized in the Log Chapel, that shrine of lonely missionaries long years before the school's founders came. This is the jewel, so beautifully set in the campus. No wonder that, like the rings of engagement and maiTiage, the Notre Dame man loves to' oifer'this additional jewel to his bride. Certainly she must cherish that which has placed the indelible stamp of Christian manhood on the one whose life she has chosen to share. 
,>-• 

Nor is it amiss here to point out that during these years of financial depression, the quiet of the campus has offered a definite economic advantage to young people, facing enough barriers without the elaborate settings so frequently demanded by home town weddings. 
Nor is the fi-iendship of the priest-teaeher-advisor to be left out of this custom. How comforting to the Notre Dame man to know that the beginning of this great ad­venture is shared and sanctioned by the same kindly counselor who started him out on so many other high­ways to happiness. 
The percentage of Notre Dame men enjoying this privilege of the little Log Chapel is small. The signifi­cance is large. 
T/e don't believe that wrong impressions, a failure to appreciate the deep-seated meaning of this occasional holy pilgrimage of an alumnus and his bride-elect, should be allowed to interfere with its place in the beautiful traditions of Notre Dame. 
ATHLETICS 

Joe Petritz, '32, who has nothing to do now except handle sports publicitj', continues his editorship of the sports section of the ALUMNUS. 
We are therefore editorially absolved from giving you the inside dope on the new athletic regime as its Spring sowing awaits the reaper. 
We must, however, apart from its significance in columns of scores, express a tremendous satisfaction with the new order as regards its experience and its attitude in things alumni during these first busy months. 
ACADEMIC PUBLICITY MARRIAGE MILL 
The ALUIINUS hails as a constructive step in every The way of the promoter is hard. 
way the appointment of Thomas J. BaiTy, '25, to handle 
Latest of our burdens is the accusation, based on what academic publicity. The burden of athletic publicity re­we considered the happiest of services rendered, that we mains on the capable and experienced shoulders of Joseph are nursing in our midst a marriage mill. Petritz, '32. To this former union, disunion, we believe, 
Religion at Notre Dame is more than a continuation brings strength. 
The ISlotre "Dame cAlumniis October, 1934 
NEW CLUB ESTABLISHED AT IRONWOOD 
The Gogebic Range Notre Dame Club is the result of a large, enthusi­astic and highly successful St. Mai-y's-Notre Dame dinner in Ironwood, Jlichigan on Saturday, August 11. Victor F. Lemmer, '26, Ironwood, is the president of the new club; Thom-hard and effectively, with his wife, Beatrice Boyce Lemmer, formerly of St. Mary's, to make the meeting the success it was. The happy idea of joining St. Marj-'s and Notre Dame in the dinner was his and both schools are far ahead because of his efforts. 
The St. Mary's-Notre Dame dinner-in Ironwood. Standing, left to 
right, are Captain Dominic Vairo, 

as L. McKeWtt, '34, Ironwood, is vice-president; Harold C. Cannon, '11-'14, Ironwood; secretary; Frank Vuko\-ich, '35, Ironwood, treasurer. 
Among the many guests at the meeting were Elmer Layden, '25, di­rector of athletics and head football coach; Joe Boland, '27, assistant football coach, Bill Sheehan, '25, of South Bend, former captain of the baseball team, and Dominic Vairo, '35, of Calumet, Michigan, captain of the 1934 football team. Vic Lem­mer conceived the idea of the meet­ing and was in charge of an-ange­ments. Frank Vucko\'ich was chair­man of the meeting and Eugene Zinn, '35, was toastmaster. 
Long columns of type in the Iron­wood Daily Globe on Monday, August 13, were ample proof of the out­standing success of the dinner and of the tremendous hit which the \is­iting celebrities made. Most of the words that they spoke, every move that they made and every fish that they caught—they were on a fishinpr trip, according to the best unverified rumors — w^ere recorded in detail. Sheehan's feats as "Joe Murphy" of the Antigo league were recalled as well as Boland's officiating and 2:adio­ing. .A.11 of northern Michigan and northern Wisconsin want the boys to come back. 
To Vic Lemmer go the medals for the arrangements. He worked long. 
Elmer Layden and Joe Boland. 
Present at the meeting from the Michigan-Wisconsin territory were: 
ST. MARY'S 

Mrs. Howard McDonnell, Hurley, Wis.; Mrs. Mary Meier, Hurley, Wis.; Margaret Petrusha, Ironwood, Mich.; Mrs. Robert O'Callaghan, Ironwood, Mich.; Lillian Lesselyong, Ironwood, Mich.; Mrs. Victor Lem­mer, Ironwood, Jlich. Mrs. A. J. O'Brien and Joan Joyce, both of Iron­wood, were unable to attend. 
NOTRE DAME Larry Danbom, Calumet, Mich,; Dominic Vairo, Calumet, Slich.; H. 
C. Cannon, Ironwood, Mich.; Frank Vukovich, Ironwood, Mich.; Savino Cavender, Wakefield, Mich.; Joe Gill, Wakefield, Mich.; Robert O'Calla­ghan, Ironwood, Mich.; Lawrence Bugni, Hurley, Wis.; Frank Lessel­vong, Ironwood, Mich.; J. C. Raineri, jr.. Hurley, Wis. 
Arthur T. Cavender, Wakefield, Mich.; Ronald V. Bugni, Hurley, Wis.; J. C. Sullivan, Ironwood, Mich.; 
A. P. Galbadini, Milwaukee, Wis.; 
E. J. Galbadini, Milwaukee, Wis.; Tom McKevitt, Ironwood, Mich; H. Joyce, Ashland, Wis.; Dr. A. X. Kamm, Hurley, Wis. 
John McKevitt, Ironwood, Mich.; George W. Harrison, Ashland, AVis.; Robert Sullivan, Ironwood, Mich,; 
Becomes President of St. Mary's, Notre Dame 
Sister M. Madeleva, M.A. '18, Ph.D., well-known poet , essayist, and lecturer, is the newly appointed president of St. Marj''s College, Notre Dame, Indiana, conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Sister Madeleva has just returned from a year at Oxford. She took her Doc­tor's Degree at the University of California, at Berkeley, and was for three years president of St,-Marj'-of­the-Wasatch college in Salt Lake Cit}'. 
Sister Madeleva is the author of Knights Errant, Penelope, Pearl, and Chaucer's Nuns. She is a member of the American Poetry Society and the Catholic Poetry Societies of both England and America. 
Four Priests Observe Silver Anniversary 
Four priests at Notre Dame quietly obser^'ed on June 26 the silver anni­versary of their ordination. They w^ere Thomas Irving, C.S.C, '04, as­sistant superior general of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross; Rev. Eu­gene Burke, C.S.C, '06, head of the English Department; Rev. Joseph Burke, C.S.C, '04, superior of the Community Infirmarj*; and Rev. John Ryan, C.S.C, '06, rector of Lyons Hall. All four priests were ordained on June 2C, 1909 by the late bishop of Fort WajTie, Most Rev. Herman 
J. Alerding, D.D. 
Juggler Discontinued 

According to a decision made this summer by the University Council, The Juggler, Notre Dame's humorous monthly, wU be discontinued. This decision was premised upon the ap­parent absence of student support of the Juggler as evidenced by an oper­ating deficit exceeding $7,000 in the past two years. Rather than continue the Juggler on a restricted budget, the council decided to discontinue the publication. 
Part of the decline of Juggler rev­enue was caused by a falling off of national advertising. Several other universities have been forced to dis­continue their humorous publications for similar reasons. 
Mrs. John A. Lemmer, Escanaba, Mich.; John A. Lemmer, Escanaba, Mich.; Victor F ; Lemmer, Ironwood, Mich.; Eugene Zinn, Ironwood, Mich. Owen O'Neill and Ted Nolan, both of Ironwood, were unable to attend. 
October, 1934 T h e '^o tre 'Dante c4lumnus 
COLLEGE OF COMMERCE EDUCATES BROADLY 
Tendency in commerce education in recent years has been toward narrow specialization; Notre Dame insists upon broad foundation in principles. 
Now that the study of commerce in our universities may fairly be said to have become of age, it is inter­esting to reflect that the tendency in this field which is strongest at the moment is nothing more than a re­turn to principles which those re­sponsible for building Notre Dame's commerce courses have insisted upon from the very beginning of the school. To be more specific, it has always been felt that our commerce 
•courses should be developed along broad philosophical lines which sti-ess principles rather than mere special­ized techniques of particular phases of business. Full length courses in the principles and history of econom­ics have always been considered fun­damental in the program of every student. Never has any compromise been made as regards inclusion of sufficient work in the fields of Eng­lish, foreign languages, literature, histoiy, and philosophy that gi-adu­ates may enter the business world without having neglected the cultural background that will contribute to a richer and fuller life, come what may in the way of business success. 
During the last twenty years much controversy has been waged over the proper nature of business education, and business school curricula have witnessed many changes in these years. The tendency too often has been toward narrow specialization. Commerce schools of many important universities succumbed almost com­pletely to the demand on the part of parents and students for coui-ses that were of practical value. Boom years in business were reflected in our col­leges by abnormal demand for dol­lars and cents courses with the result that many colleges came to offer a multiplicity of courses so narrow in content as to be entirely unworthy of academic sanction. Where this tendency was accompanied by un­restricted election by students of courses they wished to take, the chances of obtaining a broad educa­tion to enter the business world were indeed small. 
Now that business men have had an opportunity to appraise the prod­uct of schools devoted to commerce study they are in a position to ad­vise what they consider worth while for those who seek knowledge which will advance their interests in busi­ness. What kind of study will en­able men entering business to abridge the old apprenticeship period? It is pretty well agreed that it is best to build along the solid lines of econom­ic principles rather than in the direc­tion of specialized techniques. A 

BY ALDEX E . DAVIS, Instructor in Finance 
collegiate school of business should 
give a man a liberal education that 
compares with that of any other 
school in general cultural value. 
Much depends upon the point of 
view from which courses are taught. 
Good mora! character, loyalty to 
ideals, ability to cooperate and such 
old fashioned virtues are still at a 
premium in business. We stress them 
at Noti-e Dame because they are far 
more appreciated in later life than 
even the most impressive bits of 
factual knowledge. A man of in­
telligence who is familiar with prin­
ciples can observe at first hand the 
special technique it becomes his prov­
ince to master once he has entered 
business. Narrow preconceived ideas 
often have to be unlearned for the 
reason that business life is composed 
of many d>Tiamic forces little about 
which is fixed. 
No attempt is made here to con­demn all kinds of specialized courses. They have their proper place when 

SUMMER BRINGS ALUMNI TO CAMPUS 
used to supplement basic studies, and every commerce student at Notre Dame is offered a reasonable number of courses in special fields. Neither can there be serious objection to specialized courses in commerce, no matter how technical, in the large city colleges where teachers as well as students are largely drawn from the special fields which their studies cover. Our purpose is to insist that collegiate courses in commerce should not neglect fundamental studies in favor of specialized ones. 
SUGGESTIONS FOR READING: 
Understanding the Big Corpora­tions by the authors of Fortune mag­azine (McBride & Co.). 
The Modem Corporation and Pri­vate Property, Berle and Means (Macmillan Company). 
Recovery—The Second Effort, Sir Arthur Salter, K.C.B. (Century Co.). 
The Century of Progress, the Lay Retreat and the normal quota of auto tourists combined to bring to the campus the past summer an unusually large group of alumni and old stud­ents, in many cases with their wives and children. The following list — necessarily partial — tells something about these most welcome visitors. During the Lay Retreat, especially, it was impossible for the Alumni Office machinery to catch up with the indi­vidual presence of an inspiringly large number of Notre Dame men. 
Oscar Smith, '95, Rock Island, Illi­nois, captain of thet baseball team in '95, was here with Mrs. Smith in July and spent a happy day \vith his old friends. 
Francisco Gaston, '02, prominent Havana engineer, brought Mrs. Gas­ton for her first glimpse of the Uni­versity on .A.ugust 4. They were es­pecially interested in the new engin­eering building and enjoyed visiting with Father Burns and Father Stein­er. They stopped at Notre Dame aft­er spending a week at the World's Fair. Mr. Gaston had not been at the University since 1515, 
Dr. H. G. McCarthy, '09, of Cleve­land was here for the Lay Retreat and then returned on Sept. 11 to help enter his son Frank as a Freshman in the University. 
Stephan Herr, '10, with his wife and two children came up from Chatsworth, Illinois to spend July 28 and 29 in the Notre Dame sector. 
Not an infrequent visitor, but none the less welcome on all occasions, was Father Mike Moriarty who repre­sented Cleveland here on Sept. 11. 
Paul Rush, ex. '12, brought his wife and daughter up. from Memphis on -"Vugust 9 to visit with Fathers John 
W. Cavanaugh, Carrico, Irving and Wenninger.'He'was sorry to miss his old friend. Father O'Hara, who was absent from the University. Paul was taking time out from managing the Rush Lumber Company to spend a vacation in Michigan. 
Martin Walter, '14, president of the Notre Dame Club of Houston, Texas, brought news of Texas to the campus on Sept. 11. The recipient of three degrees from Notre Dame, he is a newspaper executive in Houston. 
Regis Fallon, ex. '16, of Youngs­town, Ohio, stopped at the University on September 7, enroute to the con­vention of the International Typo­graphical Union in Chicago. 
Archie Duncan, '21, prominent in the affairs of the New Jersey Club, registered from East Orange, N. J., on August 3. 
When Emmett Burke, '22, of Chi­cago, was here on July 23, he said that some relative of his had been at 
(Continued on Page 14) 

The ISlotre 'Dame cAlumnus October, 1934 
93rcl School Year Opens To ''Victory March'' 
(Continued from Fa ^ 3] 

versity for the present semester is 2,632, according to a report issued by Robert B. Riordan, re^strar. This figure, compiled at the closing date of registration Monday, September 17, indicates an increase of 85 students over last September's enrollment of 2,547. 
An upward trend was also evi­denced in the number of applications submitted for entrance to the Uni­versity. 1082 applications were re­ceived this year as compared to 941 of a year ago. In this number of applicants are included freshmen, transfer students, and return students or those who were here at some time previous to last semester. The fresh­man class totals 805 men, a growth of 94 over last fall's list. 
In comparative iigures, the college of commerce has had the greatest increase. Last year there were 709 students who were commercially in­clined. The present semester reveals an addition of 73 students to bring the total to 782. The enrollment in the other colleges remains about the same. 
Nearly every state in the Union is represented at Notre Dame. The geographical representation als o includes Canada, the Philippines,, Mexico, Panama, Ireland, Palestine, Colombia, and Spain. 
Following is the enrollment in the various colleges: Arts and Letters (including P. E.), 1068; Commerce, 782; Engineering, 346; Science, 272; Law, 112; Graduate, 52. The 112 students in Law do not include those listed in other colleges. 
Interesting in its significance as the first official establishment of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the East is the North Dartmouth prepar­atory seminary. In addition to the house of studies, the seminary, adapt­ed from a former estate and hospital, will serve as an Eastern headquarters of the Holy Cross Mission priests. 
On the campus a new Postoffice, the architectural creation of Magin­nis and Walsh, harmonizing in lines and materials with -Mumni and Dil­lon Halls, which it faces, is rapidly nearing completion. The building is on the North side of the Dorr Road, immediately South of Walsh Hall, hiding the fire-escape exposure of that building to a large and welcome extent. With the Commerce Building facing the imposing Law and Engi­neering Buildings East of Notre Dame Avenue, and this architectural triangle on the West, the new plaza program is rounding into an imposing front for the approaching visitor. The Government lease on the former Postofiice building expires October 1. 
Notre Dame has had a Postoffice since 
1851, when the University was grant­
ed this concession through the inter­
cession of the famous Henry Clay, 
whose benefaction is reflected in an 
oil painting of him in Room 219 of 
the Main Building. 
Student laundry, now incorporated 

at no additional cost in the unit 
charge for all students, is adequately 
handled in the modem building com­
pleted on the site of the old laundry, 
near the Grotto. In charge of a pro­
fessional laundry man and staffed 
with girls from South Bend, the 
plant still retains its dedication to 
St. Michael, a stone above the door 
reveals. The patronage of the Arch­
angel is related in many strange stor­
ies by the Nuns who cared for this 
work before the installation of mod­
em methods. 
These two new structures cost 

more than $50,000. Thomas Hickey, 
former Notre Dame student, was the 
South Bend contractor for both jobs. 
The Community Infirmary has been moved to the old Novitiate, on the Northeast shore of St. Joseph's Lake, with Rev. Joseph Burke, C.S.C, '04, in charge. The Community House is now used for housing the overflow members of the Congregation in executive or academic capabilities. 
Three Alumni 
{Continued from Page 6) 

cific Lines, has established a brilliant record. 
For six years Assistant Engineer Kahler impressed his merits on the Oregon Short Line R. R. So well did he impress that for the next sev­enteen years, until 1930, he was elec­trical engineer for this road, moving from the complexities of its construc­tion problems to the great general field of the Union Pacific Lines. 
In the line of duty Engineer Kah­ler has made hydro-electric recon­naissance and river surveys in West-em country. (Rumor gives him much credit for the workable solution of the Boulder Dam project.) 
He has been connected with the construction of steam, electric, and hydro - electric power plants. He worked on the design and construc­tion of the transmission system of the Utah L. & Ry. in Utah and Idaho. Investigation of irrigation projects in the Western territory was a feature of his career. 
The difficulty double tracking and grade reduction work on the O.S.L. was put under his charge. 
In his present capacity as chief system electrical engineer, all elec­tric and power plant work on the Union Pacific Lines comes within his jurisdiction. This gigantic network of his labors centers about Omaha, Nebr. 
The famous stream-lined train of the Union Pacific is said to reflect fruits of the research of the bril­
liant engineer in the electrical divi­
sion. 
Mr. Kahler is a member of the 

American Society of Civil Engineers, 
the American Institute of Electrical 
Engineers and the Association of 
Electrical Railway Engineers. 
Late Class News 
(Continued from Page S) 

contact the class before writing this letter, but now the promise goes over until the next issue. You will admit the class of 1910 is in a strategic po­sition to claim some anniversary laurels this coming year. RED MIL­LER has discussed with me the chances of working out a full class attendance at the June Commence­ment. He has in mind some financial arrangement to set up with the class insuring the attendance of the long distance rangers. SAM DOLAN and LEO MC ELROY take notice. 
A class letter will go forward very 

soon urging the 1910 men to look to­
wards a special jamboree this coming 
June. 
A word from JIM KENEFICK in­

forms me that he is sojourning for a 
time in the Jacksonville State hos­
pital, Jacksonville, Fla. Needless to 
say a letter from some of the old 
timers would be appreciated. 
Rev. M. L. MORIARTY. . 

1912 
A quick survey of the class of 1912 reveals the fact that JOHN MURPHY has been away from Cleveland on an extended business trip and will not be home until October 1. 
JAY L. LEE, of Buffalo, is busier than ever, I suppose getting his team ready for action and doing his insur­ance business on the side. 
DONNELLY P. McDONALD, of Fort Wayne, is still holding down his job as secretary-treasurer of the Peo­ples Trust and Savings Co., and in addition as a proud father of four children — which these days should keep anyone busier than the proverb­ial bee. 
THOMAS DOCKWEILER, of Los Angeles, has just returned from a three months' stay abroad. 
HENRY DOCKWEILER, the vet­eran globe trotter, is now at home busy at running almost single handed the law business of the family firm of Dockweiler & Dockweiler, since the family has practically deserted the said family firm. (John being lately elected to Congress, George was appointed a Municipal judge, and "Dad" is very much engaged in the perennial business of guiding the af­fairs of the Democratic party.) Let us hope that Henry will bear up well under the load and wish him luck. 
B. J. KAISER. 

BY DIREaOR OF JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, "32 SPORTS PUBUcny 
ATHLETICS 
If Elmer Layden were going to put a great football team on the field this fall, there could be no more dramatic opening to the season than the games with Jack Chevigny's Texas Long­horns and Noble Kizer's Purdue Boilermakers who play at Notre Dame stadium Oct. 6 and 13 respec­tively. 
But Layden is not going to have a great football team this year. He ex­ercises the coach's prerogative in tell­ing you so, but after overlooking this obvious strategem, you may make your own careful study of prospects and you will begin to agree mth him. 
As every good alumnus knows, Jack Chevigny would give both arms and throw in his right eye if he could go bacak to Austin with a vic­tory over Notre Dame to his credit. 
As for Noble Kizer, he was one of the Seven Mules. The Mules have been the butt of jokes emanating from the Four Horsemen at an esti­mated 342,872 football banquets since 1924—and how KIZER would like to win the admination of the other Mules by shooting a horse out from under a Horseman in the first case on record where a Horseman's team will play a Mule's team. 
Texas is somewhat of an unknown quantity, but it is pretty generally conceded in these quarters that the Longhoms are capable of dumping Notre Dame without much of a struggle from the Irish. And we can't see Notre Dame enough im­proved in two games to make up the 19 points which separated the Irish from the Boilermakers on the occa­sion of their latest meeting at Notre Dame stadium last fall. 
We are in the same boat with the rest of the alumni, hoping for the best, but none too optimistic. 
We've watched Chevigny work as a coach and as an orator. He is one of the most thorough young coaches in the game. No detail misses his watchful eye. Perfection is his goal. He knows football from beginning to end. He is a bom orator, one capa­ble of rousing his men to the peak of enthusiasm for their game here October 6. Chevigny opened his sche­dule Sept. 22 against Texas Tech. Texas will play the Texas Freshmen Sept. 29. That means they will have two games under their belts when they take the sod against a team which the Notre Dame coaching staif has never seen in action. 
Kizers's five-year record at Purdue speaks for itself. His teams have scored in the last 48 games without a miss. He has lost only four games 
1934 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
Oct. 6—Texas at Notre Dame. 
Oct. 13—Pnrdae at Notre Dame. 
Oct. 2ti—Camcffie Tech at Notre Dame. 
Oct. 27—Wisconsin at Notre Dame. 
NOT. 3—Pittsbnrsli at Pittsbatxh. 
Nov. 10—Navy at ClcTeland. 
NOV. 17—^Northwestern at Evanston. 
Nov. 24—^Army at New York. 
Dec 8—So. California at Los Angeles. 

in five years. Certainly he will say he has taken severe graduation loss­es, but he lost fewer regulars than did Notre Dame. Everything points for a Boilermaker victory. 
To get on into the schedule, Carne­gie Tech is fully as strong as last year, and Notre Dame has no particu­lar reason to expect victory on the home field Oct. 20. Wisconsin is new on the schedule, but Dr. Clarence Spears is reputed to have the team he was hired to produce, a team such as he developed at Minnesota and Oregon, equipped with a power full­back, an aggressive, large line, and three fast versatile backs to go ^vith the Broncho Nagurski type fullback. 
CAPT/ NOT. 

The Badgers come to Notre Dame Oct. 27. 
Then Notre Dame goes on the road for games with Pitt at Pittsburgh, Navy at Cleveland, Northwestern at Evanston, Army at New York, and Southern California at California. Notre Dame nosed out Northwestern, 7 to 0, on a miraculous run by Andy Pilney, during the coarse of which he had little or no help. The Irish staged agreat fourth quarter rally to beat Army by the slender margin of. 13 to 
12. The others won by margins vary­ing from 7 to 19 points over the Irish. 
No, mates, there is little reason to hope for a grand showing this sea­son, despite the very quick comeback Notre Dame made in 1929 after the disastrous 1928 season. At least in the year 1929 there were some experi­enced regulars and reserves available. This year the outlook, especially from tackle to tackle, inclusive, is especi­ally dark. 
Of the 18 returning lettermen from last year's squad, only seven are sen­iors. Only four of the seven can play at one time since three pairs of them play the same positions. George Mel­inkovich and Fred Carideo, Jr., are both fullbacks, Dan Hanley and Al 
a(o«a£ at»r AWQ "I'M—•" 

The "it^otre 'Dame cA lumnus October, 1934 
Costello are both right halfbacks, and Capt. Dominic Vairo and Irwin Davis are both right ends. The only other returning senior is Eocco Sehiralli, watch charm guard, who was listed on the first eleven during spring practice. 
This means that Layden will have to place in key positions men who have not had what he believes to be adequate experience. As to their wil­lingness and courage there is no doubt, according to Layden, but he can't see Notre Dame winning very many, if any, football games with a group composed almost entirely of last year's sophomores who had little action under fire. 
The linemen especially are ine-vper­ienced. Center prospects pivot large­ly around Fred Solari, Boston junior, who saw but little action last year. Kitty Gorman, who has graduated, played almost the full route in most games. Jac k Robinson, Jr., who played some varsity center as a soph­omore in 1932 in commendable style is expected back after a year's leave of absence with an eye infection. It is a question, however, whether he can get into shape in the three weeks allotted for practice. 
Sehiralli, a senior from Gary, is the only returning monogram guard. Jim Leonard, Harry Wunsch, and Joe Pi­vamik were all lost by graduation. Sehiralli although a senior has not been in the firing line regularly and still needs experience. 
John Michuta, Detroit junior, is the only returning monogram winning tackle. He played only six minutes more than the number required to ^vin a letter. Both Ed Krause and Tom Roach, last year's regulars, were lost by graduation. Dick Pfefferle, a promising prospect in 1932, received a shoulder injury which kept him out of school last year. Various opera­tions, aimed at healing the injured member, apparently failed, for it slipped out of place in spring prac­tice again this year and the coaches, as a result, are not counting upon his services. 

The ends will be fairly strong, with an experienced man at each wing. Wayne Millner, who alternated -ivith Capt. Dominic Vairo last year, will remain at left end, \vith Vairo slated for a shift to right end. Millner as a sophomore saw lots of action and ac­quitted himself well, although he stil) has many things to learn. Marty Peters and Irwin Davis, junior and senior right ends, respectively, both earned their monograms by a close 
margin last year. The backfiield is a little better set for experienced material, but the loss of Johnny (Tex) Young, star righl halfback, who died of an unlocated infection last July, was a crushing loss both to the mechanics and per­sonnel of the team. Young was the 
key man of the 1934 backiield in spring practice, a shifty, versatile, hard-driving runner, one of the very few blockers available, a passer, punt­er, and defensive man of the highest type. He was also a strong influence on the morale of the team. Layden thought so much of Young that he used him with t\vo backfield combina­tions instead of one. 
The blocking post will be filled by George Melinkovich, 1932 star full­back; Al Costello, a letterman in 1932 but not in 1933; Dan Hanley, 1930 star, who was out of school for two years before returning last season to attempt a comeback, and Tony Mazzi­otti, 1933 quarterback. 
The fullback spot, the subject of an epidemic of injuries and like catastro­phies from 1929 through 1933, is ap­parently well fortified with Don El­ser, giant junior from Gary; and Fred Carideo, Mt. Vernon, N. Y., senior, all ready to go places. The jinx crippled such men as Freddie Collins, Joe Savoldi, Moon Mullins, Nick Lukats, Melinkovich, Bemie Leahy, Elser, Steve Banas, Dan Han­ley, and others, depriving the squad of their services in one way or an­other. Steve Banas was the only full back lost by graduation this year. 

The left halfback position calls for a shifty runner, who is also a pass­ing threat, and usually a fine kicker. There is no man on the quad this year who answers all of these quali­fications. Andy Pilney, one of the trickiest open field runners in the game, neither kicks nor passes ex­ceptionally well. Bill Shakespeare, the pest punter on the squad — at least with the old ball — is a good passer, also, but is not an outstanding ball carrier. There is apparently no man of the stature of Nick Lukats, Mike Koken, or Marchy Schwartz— the three immediate predecessors at this post—available this year. 
The reserves from 1933 promise little, and the freshman crop might well have been hit by the drought, according to the coaches. 
Cross-Country 
Coach John P. Nicholson is so per­turbed by the fact that he scheduled Michigan State and Indiana, the two best cross-country teams in this sec­tion, while his prospects are the worst in years, that he has thrown caution to the winds and has taken a 20 min­
. ute ride with Max Conrad, his soph­omore high jump star and ace pilot. "Nick" just doesn't care. 
Between Michigan State, which ap­pears here Oct. 27, and Indiana, whom Notre Dame meets at Bloom­ington Nov. 17, the Irish will meet Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Nov. 3. Pitt, Nicholson figures, will turn out to be 
Summer Brings Alumni 
(Continued from Paso 11) 
Notre Dame or St. Mary's continu­ously from 1908 to 1930. His father learned to lay brick during the con­struction of Sacred Heart Church. 
Ed Thode, '24, of Washington, D.C., 
and his bride of two months stopped 
on July 25, enroute from Minneapolis. 
Jim W r a p e, '25, of Memphis, 
brought his fiancee to look over the 
University on July 27. 
For the first time since he finished, 
Anse Miller, '25, and his wife visited 
the old scenes on Sept. 14. The old 

Juggler executive now resides in Roa­
noke, Va., and is the father of two 

boys. He was in Chicago on a busi­
nes trip and skipped down to the 
campus with Mrs. Miller for a day. 
Vic Lemmer, '26, and Mrs. Lemmer 

visited Brother John, '18, and the 
Alumni Office on July 24, Vic was 
even then preparing for the great 
Notre Dame gathering which he or­
ganized in Ironwood, Michigan a 
short time later. 
John McMullan, '26, and Stumpy Cronin, ex. '33, and his brother looked in on football practice on Sept. 11. 
Tom McKieman, '27, reported on the activities of the Fort Wayne crowd when he was here for the Lay Retreat. 
Ermin Reichert, '27, Long Prairie Minnesota, gave up his hotel-manag­ing duties long enough to take a va­cation trip to the Fair, Notre Dame and Culver, Indiana. He spent August 9 at the University. Reich reported that Joe Dunn, '27, Brainerd, Minn., is managing his dad's drug store. 
Frenchy Dohogne, '27, and his wife and daughter, Mary Patricia, helped to fill out the Memphis representation even more—on July 14. 
John Burke, '28, enroute to the Fair, stopped on August 18. He had come through from Clinton, Mass. 
Russell Riley, '28, of Newark, New Jersey, visited his old friends and the old places on August 1 and 2. 
Herbert Nester, '28, brought Mrs. Nesler to the campus with him on August 28 from Columbus, Ohio. 
the best team in the East. The Cen­tral Intercollegiate conference meet at East Lansing Nov. 24 will con­clude what promises to be a most dis­mal season. 
Capt. Leo McFarlane, last year's star, has weak arches. John Francis sophomore star, carried kidney stones around all summer. The rest of the lads, all Sophomores, might as well be out for glee club, for all the running Nicholson expects of them. 
Well, we've heard it all before, Nick, so you're not fooling anyone. 
October, 1934 The '^otTe 'Dame cAlumnus 
• ALUMNI CLUBS # 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Joseph 
H. Krakor. '29. 1776-24th St,. CuyahoRa Falls. Ohio. President; Claude H. Homing. '29. 133 N. Hishland Ave.. Akron, Ohio. Sccretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARIZONA—James 
D. Barry. '97. Consolidated B.TOk BIdjr.. Tucson, President; Steve Rebeil. '2ri. 620 N. Sixth St.. Tucson. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS—Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassncr, '1-1, Hope, President: Burt L. Roberts. 132."i Lincoln Ave.. Little Rock. Secretary. 
NOTRE D.\JIE CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C. '02, Dacca. President: Rev. J. J. Ilenessey. C.S.C. Dacca. Secretarj*. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON—Jarlath (Jack) Slattery. '31. 226 L. St.. South Bos­ton. President: James Skahan. '31, 5 Grove St., Belmont. Mass.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO — Henr\- L. Bums. '29. 191 Euclid Ave.. President: Franklin O'Marah. '30. 11G5 Del­aware Ave.. Secretaarj*. 
NOTRE DASIE CLUB OF CALUMET DIS­TRICT—C. Patrick Maloncv, '16. 219 Petti­bone .\ve.. Crown Point, Ind., President. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF THE CAPITAL DISTRICT — Ron.iM McNamee, '24, 80 Church St.. Balston Spa. N, Y.. President: Richard Walsh. '31. 110 Union St.. Schen­ectady. N. Y.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO—James 
F. McNicholas. '2.-.. 7603 Phillips Ave., Chi­cano. President: Neil C. Hurley. Jr.. '32. 914 -Ashland Ave.. River Forest. 111., Sec­rctarj*. 

NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF CINCINN.A.Tr— 
W. D. Morrissey, '26. 700 Este Bids.. Presi­dent : Joseph Kinneary, '28, 1717 Gernwood Ave,. Secretary. 

CLEVELAND NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELuVND— William R. Ryan. '11, 1761 Elberon Avenue. East Cleveland. President: Pierce J. O'Con­nor. *2S. 104-1 Hanna Bids:., Clet'eland. Sec­retary. 
The Cleveland Club, under the di­rection of President WILLI-\JM E. RY.A.N, '11, spent an active and in­teresting summer, according to news reports drifting from several sources. Secretaiy PIERCE O'CONNOE, '28, says: 
"A large group attended the lunch­eon on June 11 and had the pleasure of meeting Coach Elmer Layden and iVrt Haley, who were in town for the day ari-anging details of the Navy game, to be played here in November. Coach Layden gave us the dope on next season's prospects and -4rt Haley went on record as strongly favoring the abolition of the fifty-yard line section. Our distinguished visitors were assured of the enthusi­astic co-operation of all us here, in putting the Navy week-end across. 
"Dr. Hiram G. McCarty was elected honararj- president of the club for 1934-35 and the following were ap­pointed as members of the board of governors: FE.ANK X. CULL, Chair­man; J-««ES P. C-\NNY, P-\UL C-4.STNER, JOHN E. PLYNN, DR, JOSEPH V. HEIM.ANN, DON C. MILLEE, M.A.TTHEW E. TEU­DELLE, JAMES UPEICHAED and THOMAS YJVER." 
Later in the summer Chairman 

Pat Canny sent out notices of a 
Cleveland Club golf party to be held 
at the Columbia Hills Country Club 
on Thursday, -4ugust 2. Honored 
guests were to be the Superintendent 
and the Football Coach of the V. S. 
Naval -A-cademy in addition to Elmer 
Layden and -AJt Haley. Golf, beer, 
dinner and a good time—and plenty 
of each—were promised by Pat. And 
doubtless he kept his promise. 
Still later in the summer—on -Aug­ust 18, to be exact—Chairman Loret­ta Kramer of the Cleveland St. Mai-y's Club and Chairman CHUCK ROH R of the Cleveland Notre Dame Club managed a joint beach party at Mirror Lake, near Cleveland, It was the first event of its kind in the Cleveland area, probably in the whole country. Swimming, games, contests, dancing, refreshments and a picnic supper were on the program. It isn't hard to imagine that the party was a gorgeous success, 
PIERCE O'CONNOE sent the 

following additional news in a letter 
dated September 22: 
"The summer just past has been 

both pleasant and eventful for the 
Cleveland Club, 
"The remarkable showing made by the golf team in the Inter-collegiate Tournament here in the latter part of June was a source of much pride to local alumni, and an education to many non-alumni who had thought of Notre Dame chiefly in terms of foot­ball, 
"The first summer party of the year, at Shaker Tavern, was spon­sored by the undergraduates, in honor of the N.D. golfers, and was timed to coincide with the end of the tourna­ment, 
"During the summer, under the able direction of CL.A.YTON LE­EOUX, and with your excellent co­operation in furnishing data, an effort was made to interview prospec­tive freshman, and their parents, to inform them as to various matters in connection with the University and its curriculum. This activity is still in a more or less experimental stage, but seems to present excellent oppor­tunities for future accomplishment. 
"Plans are rapidly materializing for the week-end of the Navy game here, Nov. 10, Details are in the hands of the reception committee. FRED JOYCE and JOHN BUTLER, co-chairmen; the dance committee, TO M B Y E N E, chairman, JOHN GLEASON, co-chairman; the dinner committee, CH.ARLE S MOONEY, chairman, D-A.N DUFFY and CLAY­TON LEROUX, co-chairmen, and the Ladies' reception committee, under the direction of Mrs. James P. Can­ny. Preparation of the official pro­gram is being supervised by G.A.Y H.4.AS. At this writing prospects seem bright for the attendance at the game of the Naval Academy student body. 
"Coach JOE GAVIN'S Holy Name 

High team started the scholastic sea­
son here by soundly defeating their 
neighborhood rivals, South High, 
"JOH N C-A-RBERRY has lately 

joined the coaching staff at John Car­
roll U,, where he will assist Coach 
TOM YARR. 
"JOHN REIDY, and DON MIL­

LER, are still receiving congratula­
tions on recent additions to their 
families. It's a girl, in each case. 
"AL GRIS-A.NTI and CORNELIUS 

RUFFING recently passed the Ohio 
bar exam, with the enviable distinc­
tion of rating first and second, re­
spectively, among those in their class 
at Western Reserve Law School who 
took the exam." 
CENTRAL OHIO 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO —Raymond J. Eichenlaub. '15, Hoster Real­ty Bid?., Columbus. President. 
With the intention of putting fresh injection of pep into the C. 0. or­ganization, DON H-\MILT0N wrote in for the latest list of Notre Dame men in and around Columbus. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CONNECTI­CUT VALLEY—Thomas E. Fersuson. '26. 37 Windsor St.. Thompsonville, Conn.. Pres­ident : Francis D. Aheam. "29, 1 Webster St. Hartford, Conn., Secretary. -A note from CYRIL G-4FFNEY said, among other things, that the club was planning a meeting for September 24 in New Britain. -A-n earlier letter from FRANK -AilE.ARN, of Hartford, secretary of the organization, contained the happy news that a club dance in June was a social and financial success — and that despite the fact that it was the first endeavor of the club and that it was held on the day of the Yale-HaiTard boat races. 

CENTRAL lUICHIGAN 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL MICH­
IGAN—Joseph W. Stack, "13. 102S Chester­
field Pkwy.. East LansinK. President: Chas. 
J. Connor, '33. 120 E. KaJaroazoo, Lansins, Secretary, Our Central Michigan Club kept 

up the good work even through the first summer of its organization. The 
The "l^o tre 'Daine cAlumnus October, 1934 
monthly luncheons are proving popu­lar indeed, and I notice the boys are remaining longer and longer after each one. State politics have held a prominent part in these discussions. JOHN STACK, JR., '02, auditor gen­eral, was courageously bidding for the Governor's Chair against the en­tire state Democratic machine. Sorry to say, but he came out the loser in the primaries. 
Lansing again prefen-ed a Notre Dame man in the selection of DORIS 
N. COWARD, ex.-'34, to head the Athletic Directorship of the new pro­posed public recreation center, the "Di-Sur—Da Club. Doris has done some wonderful work in the publicity field since leaving Notre Dame, and I'm sure the successful culmination of this project will be anticipated by all of us. 
Out at State, CHARLIE B.A.CH­MAN and TOM KING are quite the show these days. Bachman says, '"We'll be taking on Notre Dame in a few years. No doubt about it." Tom sanctioned the threat with that big, confident smile of his. I guess they have a pretty fair bunch out there this Fall. 
I would like to have all the Notre Dame men in the Wcinitj' of Lansing, Jackson, Battle Creek, and Kalama­zoo, who liave not attended one of our meetings, to get in touch with me imiriediately to formulate some plans for a centralized social event early this Fall. . 
Yours, CHARLES J. O'CONNOR, '33. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DALLAS. TEXAS —James K Swift, '24. 1202 S-iuthwestern Life BldR., Dallas, President: Francis A. McCulIoUEh, '30, 317 First National Bank Bids.. Dallas, Secretari-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON—Amos Clay, *\n. Union Trust Bids., President: An­drew A. Aman, Jr.. '30, 210 Lexinjrton Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER—Robert Dick, '29. 930 Grant SL, President: Harry Lawrence, '29, 1951 Lawrence St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES— James C, Shaw, '22, .107 Equitable Bldsr., President: F, M. Wondcrlin. '29, 302 Hub-bell Bldff,, Secretaary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT—John 
T. HiBsins, '2J, 1632 Buhl Bide President; Paul J. Dooley. '2.i, 6202 Hamilton Ave., Secretary. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
NOTRE D,\iIE CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA — James D. Hayes, '17, 5115 Eishth St., N.W., Wa-shinKton, President: Harry M, Ambrose. 1722-19th St., N.W., '25. Sscretary. 
If you have ever spent a summer in Washington you will understand why the local N. D. club doesn't operate during that season. The heat, plus the fact, so many men leave town, causes us to discontinue operation during that time. 
With Fall coming on and the papers talking football, it looks as though our first meeting of the new year will get under way very soon nov>'. With the start we had last Winter, mostly through hard work on the part of our president, JIM HAYES, I believe the club will have another fine year. 
I haven't seen many of the men since early summer.' The last I saw of Hayes ho ^.as knee deep in night work, straightening out veterans leg­islation. 
BUD MARKEY has been promi­nent in tennis circles all summer, and just missed ^^•inning the District sin­gles championship. Bud is living with BERNIE LOSHBOUGH, and JOHN O'NEILL, just around the comer from me. The latter two along with MULQUEEN and myself, are doing architectural work for the government. 
I haven't seen CHARLIE MAN­NIX, or WATTS EICHER, in several weeks. Presume, however, they are still about town. 
FRANK: BON and -AL LODA have been out of the city all summer— Pi-ank in Wyoming, and M in Mich­igan. I don't look for their return until the Senate convenes in January. 

From the smiling faces of BERG­MAN, COTTON, and VLK, pros­pects at C. U. must be entirely satis­factory. Here's hoping Holy Cross doesn't change their expression. 
I see EARLE P. DOYLE at my neighborhood church almost every First Friday. BERT TOEPP says business is fine—and he is still the proudest father in all Washington. 
I saw RUDOLPH RICE the other night, having dinner at my favorite local rendezvous. All seems well with Rudy, 
Well Jim—for the present I am out of news, but after we get under way, • I will keep you posted on the N. D. Club and N. D. men of Washington, 
D. C. Until then— 
Sincerely, HEZ AMBROSE. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE. PA.—Rich­ard D, Daley, *17, Erie Daily Times, Presi­dent: Thomas Barber. '24, 416 Newman St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY—James Murphy, '22, 611 Security BldB., BridKcport, Conn.. President: Joseph E, Russo, '32, 166 Housh Ave., BridKCport, Conn., Secretarj*. 
FORT WAYNE 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE— Robert Eggeman, '30, Old First Bank Bids., President: Thomas McKiernan, '27, Old First Bank Bids., Secretary. 
When TOM McKIERNAN came up for the Lay Retreat in August he reported that the Fort Wayne Club, in addition to electing him secretary, had chosen BOB EGGEMA.N as president; CHARLIE REUSE as vice-president and NOR B BERG­HOFF as treasurer. Big things are ahead for the fall and \vinter season, TOM said. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE GOGEBIC RANGE—Victor E. Lemmer. '26, P.O. Bo.\ C61. Ironwood. Mich.. President: Harold C. Cannon, '13, Curry Hotel, Ironwood, Mich., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY— Harold L. Londo, '24, City Engineers' Office, City Hall, Green Bay. Wig., President: Levi 
A. Geniesso, '24, 510 Minahan BIdg., Green Bay, Wis,, Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAPIDS, MICH,—George E, Ludwig, '23, 328 Glen-haven Ave,, N. AV., President: Raymond J. Boninin, '27, 2460 Oakwxxxl Or,, S,E.. Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAMILTON, OHIO—M. O. Burns, '86, 338 S. Second St., President: Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rent­schler Bldg,, Secretary, 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAW.iTH.A­LAND — Norman Bartholomew. '15, 225 Cleveland Ave,, Iron Mountain, Mich.. Pres­ident: Michael S, Coro'. '27, S37 Terrace Ave,, Marinette, Wis,, Secretarj'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON—M. E. Walter, '14, 1702 Stuart Ave., Houston, Te-xas, President: T. F. Green, Jr., '27, Oonroe, Texas. Secretarj'. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIAN.A.POHS —Harry Scott, '17, 838 N. Delaware St., President; John Carton, '28, City Hall, En­gineering Dept., Secretary. 
It is with a great deal of pleasuio that I break a long silence to inform you of the activities of the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis. On Tues­day, August 28, Notre Dame men from far and near gathered at the Highland Golf and Country Club to compete in our annual Golf Tour­nament and to partake of the e.xcel­lent dinner. 
Our numbers were swelled by the presence of several distinguished guests, and I wish to take this op­portunity to thank Elmer Layden, -A.rt Haley, Chet Grant, John Nicholson, and yourself, Jim, for the pleasure j'ou gave us all by attending. 
The Golf Tournament was a com­plete success. The weather was fine; the course was in gi-eat condition; the scores, although not quite perfect, were entirely satisfactory; and the prizes were numerous. Our most distinguished foursome was composed of ELMER LAYDEN, ART HALEY, AL FEENEY, and TOOTS FOX. MIKE O'CONNOR won the low gi'oss with a sparkling 79, while JOE SEX­TON, as usual, garnered the high gross prize with a remarkable score reaching well into three figures. Art Haley and Jim Kirby ended up in a tie for blind par and there were other prizes too numerous to mention. 
Following the toui-nament and a short interval at the 19th hole a buf­fet dinner was served and appetites sharpened by an afternoon in the open air gradually reduced to sub­jection. At this time President HARRY SCOTT assumed the role of toastmaster and awarded the prizes. Then Harry exerted his well known powers of persuasion and induced Messrs. Layden, Grant, Feeney, Haley, Nicholson, and Armstrong to favor us with i sei-ies of short talks. Coach Layden,- while none too opti­mistic, inspired us all with the feel­
October, 1934 The ISlotre 'Dame cAlumnus 
ing that, under such, a coach, the Notre Dame squad \viU be imbued with that fighting spirit which has always won football games for Notre Dame. The rest of the evening was given over to an informal get-to­gether, which seemed to be thorough­ly enjoyed. 
To President Harry Scott and his hard working committee goes all the credit for a most successful Notre Dame Club Golf Tournament. 
JOHN CARTON, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET—.Foscph Silk. '20. 820 Ohio St., President: Thomns Fccley, '32. 316 Bucll Ave.. Sccretary-
NOTRE DA5IE CLUB OF KANSAS aXY — Daniel F. Foley, '23. 2.5 Wint Ave, Ft. Leavenworth. Kansas. President: John M. Duffan. '27. 7401 Terrace Ave.. Kansas City. Mo., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS—Albert .r, Gcbert, '30, U. of Wichita. Wichita. President: Dan Wclchons. '30. 306 E. 13th St.. Hutchinson. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJIB CLUB OF KENTUCKY— Wm. A. Reisert. .Jr., *30, Reisert Ins, Asen­cy, 352 Starks BldK.. Louisville. Ky.. Pres­ident : Herman J. OhlisschlaRer, '29. Broad­way at 30th St.. Nat'l. Concrete Construc­tion Co., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANE COUNTY —William B. ChaWKO. '31. 401 S. LaSalle St., Aurora. 111., Sccretar>-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LAPORTE. IN­DIANA—A. Gordon Taylor. '18. 1507 Indi­ana Ave., LaPorte, President: Norman Duke, '33, 304 Niles St„ Laporte, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOS ANGELES— Thomas Hearn, '15, 1120 Pacific Finance BIdff., President: Dout'las Daley, '30. 781 Ceres Ave.. Secretarj-. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUISLVNA­MISSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke. 'SS. 307 Camp St., New Orleans, President: Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr.. '28. Whitney-Central BIdff.. New Orleans. Sccretarj*. 
Have for acknowledgment your circular letter of i-ecent date, con­tents of which have been carefully noted. 
JOE BEACH was in the other day before returning to school, and have every reason to believe that he will give a very good account of himself during this coming football season as he is in the "pink" of condition. 
As regards to my brother, Harold, and cousin, Edward, who graduated this past June, the former has joined us in our business and the latter has secured a position with the United Fruit Company down in the Tropics. 
As regards to the rest of the boys from down this way, I understand that they have all returned to school with the addition of another de la Vergne by the name of Pierre. 
The writer saw JULES de la VERGNE of the class of '33 and he advised him that he would not re­turn to Harvard this year but would in all probability connect up with some architect firm here. 
Had a very delightful visit with Judge JOE BLACHE at Hammond, Louisiana, this past Sunday. The Judge is keeping a veiy close eye on 
the political situation and we will no 
doubt be hearing further from him 
befoi'e the end of the year. 
This is about all the "dope" that I 

can presently fui-nish. 
With kindest personal regards and 

best wishes, beg to remain. 
As ever, CYP SPORL. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA—Jacobo Zobel. '23. Manila. P.I. President: A. P. Gonzales. '25. Insular Life BIdg.. 2nd Fl.. Manila. Secretarj*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEJIPHIS—Hugh ilagevney. Jr.. 1878 Union Ave.. President. 
MILWAUKEE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE— 
P. Dudley Pearson. '19. 2037 N. Lake Drive, President: Paul Brust, '28. 135 W. Wells St.. Socreta.-y. 
June 19, 1934. 
Pour new members were added tj 

our local group when the University 
graduated JOHN BRUST, JOHN 
CLAUDER, WILLL4.M FROJIM, and 
JOHN OITZINGER. Unfortunately 
we lost two verj' fine fellows who 
have been here long enough to be 
regarded as old timers. TOM DUNN, 
'29, adjuster for a nationally known 
insurance company has been shifted 
to Minneapolis. Tom was a Vice-
President of our club and an active 
supporter of all our activities. AL 
ROACH, '29, counsellor of the Cath­
olic Social Welfare Bureau, has left 
for New York, where he has the op­
portunity of advancing himself in his 
field and also to be nearer his home. 
With fitting ceremonies the 3Iil­v.-aukee Clu b awarded, through CHAUNCEY YOGKEY, a Rockne Memorial Trophy to FR.A.NK PAL­CETTI, a resident of Rochester, Min­nesota, and a graduate of Pio Nono High School, Milwaukee. He is a rep-I'csentative athlete of the School %rith a high scholastic record. This tro­phy is the first of a series to be of­fered the different city high schools according to DUD PEARSON, who started the program. 
-A. picnic is planned for the summer at which time we would like to en­tertain BILLY SULLIVAN, who is playing third base for the Milwaukee team in the American Association. Billy is hitting the apple in great style, and at the present time the team is in the second place with great potentiality. Milwaukee Alumni and friends of Notre Dame mourn the death and feel deeply the loss to the University of our beloved Father Charles O'Donnell. Suitable resolu­tions on his death have been fi-amed and sent the University. 
JOHN CAVANAUGH, '28, former­ly of Milwaukee and now living irt Chicago, dropped into town for a high school reunion the other night. 
Father NORBERT HOFF, profes­sor at Notre Dame, is spending part of the summer in Milwaukee. He has already given a retreat to local semi­narians since he's been in Milwaukee. 
TOM KELLY is a busy man these 

days. Watching the high schools' for 
eligible N. D. students is an addi­
tional worry for him. 
A possible newcomer to Milwaukee 

is L. F. STAUDER, '29, who phoned 
the other day to say he's scouting 
work in Milwaukee. He has been 
coaching in Champaign, Illinois. 
PAUL BRUST. 
August 30, 1934. 
The bare and adulterated facts 

concerning our recent picnic are 
about as follows: 
The Milwaukee- Notre Dame Club held its annual stag picnic on Satur­day, August 18. About 50 fellows turned out t have a big time at PAUL BRUST'S home at Lake Beulah. Baseball and swimming provided the recreational highlights of the after­noon. 
The "Brownson" team piloted by DR. DUNDON beat the "Carroll" outfit led by HAROLD WATSON by a score of 11-9 in 13 innings. The feature of the game was the only home run hit. It was lifted over the Notre Dame pennant in the outfield by ED HACKETT at a crucial mo­ment. After swimming the boys went through the lunch and beer in true Dining Hall fashion. 
Rev. Norbert Hoff, of the Notre Dame faculty, was the guest of honor. He proved to be well known to many of the crowd and well liked by all, being regularly surrounded by those who knew him best, the present students. 
Older graduates who were active in the ball game and around the beer barrel included JOHN MADDEN, '17, of the Dodge Motor Company, TOM KELLY, '18, an attorney, DUD PEARSON, '19, in the Government's division, and DR. GEBH.4.RDT, '26, a physician. 
In the classes of '28 and '29 were the following: WILLIAM BROWN, R.A.LPH CLARK—recently married, —FRANK HOLD.A.MPF, JOE GRIF­FIN, JEAN La BOULE, BOB LUTZ, TOM MEAGHER, SHERIDAN Mc-C.A.BE and CHARLES O'NEILL. 
Recent graduates in attendance were JOHN BRUST, about to shove off for Washington, D. C, ROLLIN BUNCH, CHAUNCEY BRANFORT, JOHN CLAUDEK—who is starting college methods on our club roster by working to complete a card index a—nd JOHN OITZINGER. 
DAN McNALLY, '28, who has re­cently come to town, is said to be connected with a prominent law firm. 
L. F. STAULER, '29, is another new­comer, being connected with Allis-Chalmers Corporation. 
Enclosed is a recent clipping an­nouncing the new coaching given to TOM HEARDEN. 
Respectfully yours, PAUL BRUST. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MONTANA—Earl 
W. Bnoivn, '93. 320 Power St.. Helena. Pres­ident: James B. O'Flynn, 'll . Great Falls. Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NASHVILLE— Robert P. Williams. Jr.. 'SS, 106 Gallatin Road, Secretary, 
NEW JERSEY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JERSEY— B, K, Wingarter, 'iS. 113 S. Clinton St.. East Orange. New Jersey. President: Ed­ward Hargan. '26, ITS De Witt Ave.. Belle­ville, New Jersey, Secretarj-. 
TOMJIY FARRELL crashed through with the news—as only Far­rell can crash—that 47 members of the club had spent the second week­end in September at the Loyola Re­treat House in Morristown, New Jer­sey, Thus was carried forward one of the most laudable and most pro­ductive of Notre Dame club activi­ties. The New Jersey Club originated the pi-actice some years ago. 
The class of '26 dominated the polls in the election of officers held this summer. KIERN.AN WINGER­TER, '26, was chosen president; ARCHIE DUNCAN, '21, vice-presi­dent; BOB HUETZ, ex, '31, treas­urer; and ED H.A.RGAN, '26, secre­tary. The honorable secretary sent the dope in a recent letter, 
• 
NEW YORK 
NOTRE DAME GLUB OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK—Edward Fallon. '26. 2 Lafay­ette St.. New York City. President: J. Norbert Gclson. Jr., '26. 1201 Troy Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y"., Secretary. 
June 20, 1934, 
This has been a long time in the making and I hope that it %rill not be too late for this month's issue of the ALUMNUS as I have missed a couple and everyone wants to know the reason why. 
At a recent meeting of the Board of Governors the following officers of the Club were elected: EDW.4RD A. FALLON, President, JOHN T. BALFE, Vice - President, BERNARD W, CONROY, Treasurer, was re­elected for another year. 
The Annual Rockne Communion Breakfast of the Notre Dame Club of New York was held on Sunday, April 8, The Mass was celebrated in St, Pi-ancis of .A.ssisi's Church, West 31st Sta-eet, New York Citj- by Rev, Joseph J, Boyle, C,S,C. 
The breakfast was served in the Hotel Governor Clinton. JOSEPH M, BYRNE did a splendid job as toastmaster. He read a message from Father John F. O'Hara, C.S,C, giWng full details about the Rockne Me­morial Field House, 
A minute's silence was obsei-ved at the breakfast, and was followed by a phonograph record of a Rockne "pep" talk to the team. 
Father Boyle gave a veiy fine talk about Rockne and said that "Rockne was the living example of the real Notre Dame, Daily in his relations with his fellowmen he demonstrated the supreme ideal Notre Dame in­
The fiotre T)ame cA lumnus 
stilled in his heart and mind—service to his God and to his neighbor. His memory is a benediction and, praise God, will remain so," 
LAWRENCE PERRY of the New York Sun, and CHRISTY WALSH, also spoke. Father John B. Kelly of the Catholic Writers Guild read the poem which appeared in the last ALUMNUS, 
Universal Notre Dame Night 
brought out a record breaking crowd 
to the Main Ballroom of the Hotel 
McAlpin, 
GENE BUCK, song in-iter and 
one of the great theatrical figures of 
the day, was the genial toastmaster 
and did his usual excellent job. 
There were several speeches given 
during the evening, but the toast­
master and everyone else were most 
impressed by a short talk made by 
DAVE HAYES who journeyed down 
from Hartford, Conn, to be with us. 
He told us how much Notre Dame 
meant to him. 
Among the distinguished group of .speakers were the following: Bill Corum of the New York Journal, Judge ERNEST E. L, HAMMER, '04, RALPH DUMKE, '24, W-A.LTER O'KEEFE, '21, John Kieman of the New York Times, Rev. John B. Kelly, CHARLES DAVIS, '23, BUGS B.AER, and CHRISTY WALSH, 
JOE BRANDY, now known at "the Brisbane of the North," spoke of his football days at Notre Dame when he was teamed with the great GEORGE GIPP, 
On May 25 we travelled down to the Loyola House of Retreats at Mor­ristown, N. J. for our Annual Re­treat. Father Herman I. Storck, S.J, conducted a verj' wonderful retreat. 
The Metropolitan Club of Notre Dame had their Spring Formal on June 15, at the Hotel McAlpin, There were several alumni present at this dance, 
A testimonial dinner was given to our distinguished New York alumnus, HUGH O'DONNELL, on Monday night, June 18, The dinner was given by his former newspaper as­sociates, personal friends, and his Notre Dame friends. There were over two hundred people there to honor him and listen to the wonderful tributes paid to him, 
DOC GELSON, Secretary 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN 
TALIFORNIA—Royal H. Bosshard, "17, 324 
Sansome St.. San Francisco, President: 
Robert B. Hill, '23, 5033 Proctor Ave.. Oak­
land. Secretary. 
ROY.A.L H. BOSSHARD, president of the club, contributed the following, on Jime 11: 
"I want to report a little social activity of the club in Northern Cal­ifornia. On the night of May 29 we held a dinner dance, the first of its kind in Northern California and we October, 1934 
had an exceptionally large crowd and everyone enjoyed the opportunity to get to now better the families of each Notre Dame man. A number of new faces showed up at the party and believe that when things open up again in the Fall we will have con­siderably more activity than we had this past year." 
I regret to state that none of my 
letters to the delinquent members in 
this jurisdiction was answered, so 
that my efforts to collect dues were 
no more successful than yours had 
been. 
I am now in the employ of the 
great State of California, the Cali­
fornia National Bank having folded 
up last year. I am in the Liquor 
Control Division, so am definitely a 
part of the New Deal. 
In checking over the rest of the 
Notre Dame group in this neighbor­
hood it appears that nearly everj'one 
is a State employee. 
Dr. J, M, TONER, as director of the Department of Institutions, has his offices here but spends much of his time inspecting the twenty-odd hospitals, etc., under his jurisdiction. Dr. Toner is always responsive to any movement reminiscent of the good old days in Indiana. His part}' at the Norwalk State Hospital the night of the alst Noti-e Dame game in South-em California was one of the out­standing events of that verj' eventful football season. 
We are represented in the Legis­lature by J. H. O'DOlSfNELL, '15, who lived at the Lilacs during the single year he attended Notre Dame. He came from New York State and taught freshman English while finish­ing his course for an LL.B. John was elected assemblyman two years ago from the district just west of Sacramento. He is a practicing at­torney at Woodland. 
AL WILLETT, who was a student in 1920 and a member of the track team, is connected with the Engineer­ing Department of the State and does considerable ti-aveling up and down the Coast. He keeps up with the avia­tion experience gained during the War and is a member of the Reserve Corps, 
W. B, ROONEY, '20, who was known to the generation of the early twenties as "Bart" is the owner of two prosperous garages here. 
Out here we think you are doing a mighty good job of keeping the as­sociation afloat snd wish vou contin­ued success. With TIM GALVIN and BERNIE VOLL coming along in of­fice (I hope) you will have the right knid of boys working with you. With every good wish to them when you see them and more power to you es­pecially, I am. 
Yours sincerely, HOWARD PARKER, Elks' Club, Sacramento. 

October, 1934 The '^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 
OREGON NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREGON—Frank 
T. Collier, '08, 721 Ycon BuildinK. Portland, President: William C. Schmitt, 'lO. Consol­idated Equipment Co., I\jrtland. Secretan'. 
June 13, 1934. 
Notre Dame was well represented 

in the recent state primary election. 
FRANK LONERGAN, '04, was nosed 
out in the gubernatorial race by an 
opponent who had a more popular 
if not as sound a platform. NORB 
KAVANAUGH, '26, was nominated 
for State Representative, and 
FRANK COLLIAR, '08, lost out in 
the same race. JOHN J. BECKMAN, 
the only Democrat lost a close race 
for United States Representative. 
Crying towels have been passed out. 
GENE SCHMITT, old student and brothe r of your correspondent, 
•showed his heels to all of the local bowling experts by copping first prize in the Oregonian championship recently. The prize wasn't a pewter cup either, but a nice air trip to Seattle, boat to Victoria and San Francisco, and rail back home. All expenses for two. Another boost for a college education. 
CHARLIE HIRSCHBUHL, '22, who studied the classics at Notre Dame, is now the proprietor of one of Portland's largest forging and machine shops. Charlie says there is moi-e quick dough in blacksmithing than in writing sonnets. 
FELIX ISHERWOOD, '30, is run­

ning true to form by doing impor­
tant things for the States Steamship 
Company. Maybe this boost will 
make him easier to approach on the 
subject of a pass on one of the States 
ocean liners. 
JIM HOPE, lawyer of 1911, is so 

busy trj'ing cases in Astoria that we 
don't see him often. Come up for the 
monthly sometime, Jim. 
How time does change things. It doesn't seem long since DOM CAL­LICRATE, '08, and yours truly were spending our summer vacations at Cedar Point, Ohio. Now, Dom is in the advertising business with Foster & Kleiser, and has one fine daugh­ter and four lads growing up. The most recent ones are the twins Bob and Bill seven years old. Old timers will remember Dom as captain of the 1907 varsity, and he's training the twins in all the tricks of the trade. 
W. C. Schmitt, '10. 
September 13, 1934. 

Regular monthly luncheons were resumed in Portland September 9th after the summer layoff, with a good and enthusiastic attendance. 
TWOMEY CLIFFORD, Law '14, is a welcome addition to our group. He has recently been transferred to Portland from Arkansas, and is con­nected with the U. S. Department of Justice. He brings the sad news of the death of BILLY HENDRIKS, Notre Dame's former welterweight boxing champion, who died several months ago in Camden, Arkansas 
from an attack of swamp fever. 
The past year has seen the coming 

of several blessed events, including 
the following: MAURICE CONWAY, 
'14, a daughter; FRED CUNNING­
HAM, '30, a daughter; HUGH 
LACEY, '12, a daughter; NAT Mc-
DOUGALL, '00, a gi-andson. Who'll 
even up the score? 
We're all proud of NAT Mc-

DOUGALL'S par shooting daughter, 
Marion, who now is the undis­
puted lady champion of the Pacific 
Northwest, an honor won during the 
tournament held in Spokane, Wash­
ington during the summer. 
Rev. Joseph Boyle, C.S.C, the new 

president of Columbia University, has 
taken up his new charge and is al­
ready working out plans to continue 
the program of making Columbia the 
Notre Dame of the West. 
JOE SAVOLDI is actively follow­ing his profession of neck twisting and arm stretching interspersed with his famous drop kicks. He has ap­peared t^vice in Portland during the last month, with success on both oc­casions, and after seeing Joe in wrestling trunks, we can easily un­derstand why he could carrj- the pig­skin with the best. 
GENE MURPHY has started the year with prospects of another fine football team for Columbia Univer­sity. We have just heard that ener­getic Father Michael Early has signed up a game here with Clipper Smith's Santa Clara team. 
W. C. SCHmTT, '10. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLxVHOMA— Thomas F. Shea. o.s., '09. 902 Exchange Nafl. Bank. Tulsa, President: Leo A. Schu­macher, *13, KinK Wood Oil Co., Okmulgee, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS—Holders of Permanent Seats: Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris Office. N. Y. Herald. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILiVDELPHU. —Harr>- Francis. Jr., '30, 15 Spring .A.ve., Ardmore, Pa., President: Thomas J. Magee, 
•32, .iSOl Chew St., Philadelphia. Secretary. 

PEORIA NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PEORIA—Joseph 
J. Langton. '28, 201 Hillycr Place, Presi­dent : William J. Motsett, '3-1, 109 N. Maple-w'ood Ave., Secretarj*. 

A bit tardily but none the less in­terestingly the Peoria Club presents the following: 
The Peoria Club fittingly obsei-ved "Universal Notre Dame Night" with a banquet and meeting at the Uni­versity Club. Felicitations were re­ceived from Rev. John F. O'Hara, 
C.S.C. and Elmer Layden, and nu­merous other alumni groups which were graciously received by the members present. The principal ad­dress of the evening was given by the Rev. J. J. BURKE, one of the oldest living alumni in the countrj', who celebrates the fifty-first anniver­sary of his graduation this year. Short talks were given by JOHN NOPPENBERGER, DON O'MEARA and AL GURY all past presidents of the club and SPALDING SLEVTN, whose humorous account of his foot­ball ability at N. D. was one of the bright spots of the evening. 
Following the dinner, election of oflicers was held for the coming year ivith the following men being in­stalled in office — ERNEST HECH­INGER, '32, President; FRANK OBERKOETTER, '32, Vice-Presi­dent; FRED MEYER, '33, Secretary-Treasurer. This is the youngest group of oflicers in the history of the club, and the above men promise plenty of pep and activity for the members during the coming year. The success of the banquet was chiefly due to the untiring efforts of JOHN GRIESER, the capable chairman of the evening. 
The first meeting of the club under its new president was held Tuesday evening. May 8, at the regular club rooms in O'Meara's Buffet. Plans were immediately launched for the first of the summer stag picnics, that proved such a tremendous success last year. The Hilltop Gun Club, was selected as the scene of the first stag to be held this year on Sunday, June 17. The following men com­pose the committee in charge of the affair: SPALDING SLEVIN, ART FULTON, DON O'MEARA, AL WELZENBACH,and FRANK OBER­KOETTER. 
Before the close of the meeting, a motion was unanimously accepted that the secretary of the club send a letter to the Most Rev. J. Schlar­man. Bishop of Peoria, pledging the support of the local N. D. aliunni, in his Legion of Decency Movement. Jill the members of the club had pre­viously taken the pledge. 
The Peoria Club has a number of adopted sons in its ranks at present, among them: AL CULVER and BERNIE LEAHY, actively en­gaged at one of the large distilleries in the city at the present time, RALPH FURSTOSS, '33, and JOHN SIMKO, employed in the engineer­ing department of the huge Cater­pillar Tractor plant in East Peoria. ED CAREY, '32, is employed in the government service, and RA Y BR.\NCHEAU, '33, is also working for a distilling company prior to his trip to New Mexico to take up the coaching reins at the state college there this fall. 
Well, Jim, I think that just about comprises all the news for this time, and in the next letter I will give you all the available dope on the stag pic­nic which is to be held in the mean­time. FRED MEYER, '33. 
The new secretary, BILL MOT­SETT, rushed from the first Fall meeting to send the following ac­count: "Just a few lines to let you know what the Peoria Notre Dame Club is doing this fall. 
"The first fall meeting was called September 18. This was a dinner meeting which was attended by 35 members, which is a very good at­tendance for our club. 
"Due to the fact that our former President, Ernest Hechinger, '32, has been transferred to Rochester, New York, where he is employed by the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co., and our former secretary - treasurer, FRED­ERICK MYERS, '33 is taking a post­graduate course at Catholic Univer­sity, election of new officers was made necessary. JOSEPH J. L.A.NGTON was elected president; PRANK OB­ERHOETTER of Bloomington, 111., was re-elected \ace president, and WILLIAM J. MOTSETT was elected secretary-treasurer. 
"The meeting was a vei-y interesting one and I am sure that it is the aim of each member to make this club a very worthwhile organization. MR. LANGTON appointed an entertain­ment committee and many events are in the making for the coming months. 
"It was also decided that the Club would meet the second Tuesday of each month and that every other meeting would be a dinner meeting. 
"During the summer months there were no meetings, however, a stag picnic was held in July which drew a heavy attendance and everyone had a very good time. The club has several new members and I am sure that this is going to be a very active year for the Peoria Notre Dame Club." 
ROCHESTER NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KOCHESTER— James Jones. '22, 319 Ellwanpcer and Barry Blds., President: Frank Norton, '32, SO Beckwith Terrace, Secretary. June 28, 1934. It must he at least six months since I talked to you, and can't recall having %vritten to you in the mean­time. Bad record. Jim, we had an election of officers at a little party the other night, and the results are as follows: JIM JONES, President; BIL L JONES , Vice-President; FRANK NORTON, Secretarj', and JOHN E. DOERSCHEL, Treasurer. You will notice that the majority of the officers are the younger boys, with the exception of the President. Bill Jones was re-elected V.-P. The boys from our school held a Summer Dance at the Windsor on Lake Ontario a couple of weeks ago. WARD SCHLOTZER, past president, NORB BAGLIN, past president, and yours truly, past president, were the only "old heads" in the party. JOE FLYNN was married a short while ago. Norb Baglin will cele­brate his first anniversary on Aug­ust 7. JERRY BUSCH, who mar­ried Rose O'Connell, BER N I E O'CONNELL'S sister, (the boys were in the class of '28) is improving rapidly, also his wife. If you didn't 

The '^otre T>am e cAlumnus 
know it, they were in an accident. Jerry was badly cut up and his wife suffered a broken pelvis. Loretta O'Connell, Bemie's cousin, is engaged to FRANK NORTON. 
CLINTON LINTZ is now district manager for the Poly Shine Co. and is stationed in Virginia. 
Generally, before you write a let­ter, you can think of so many things you want to say, and then when you are writing it, just try to remember. 
The Notre Dame Club attended Mass and Holy Communion in a body at St. Joseph's Church for Father O'Donnell. It was certainly a fine gesture of respect, Jim, since there was a larger crowd for Mass and Communion at 7:30 Mass than we have had for a regular meeting or a party, as long as I can remember. The old Notre Dame spirit comes to the fore at the proper time, and that includes the Rochester Club also. 
On the Wednesday following Father O'Donnell's death, the Re­demptorists kindly assented to a pub­lic prayer for his soul at all Perpetual Help services that day. Beginning at 8 A.M. and regularly through all services till 8 P.M.—a total of over 12,000 prayers were said for Father O'Donnell that day. Did any other group or city beat the Redemptorists and the people of Rochester? 
Jen-y Smith 
September 13, 1934. 
Your letter was a reminder that we as a club have been rather silent the past year or so. Like all well-intentioned secretaries, I promise to keep you better posted as well as aid you in the matter of dues. 
During the summer we were given a beer party by a local brewery who furnished supplies gratis somewhat as a contrast to the fiesta we had when you were here at Sagamore. Follow­ing that we ran a dance at the lake in conjunction with the undergradu­ates and managed to break slightly ahead of the sheriff. 
Upon the demise of Father O'Don­nell the club attended Mass and Com­munion in his honor and made quite a showing. Since then we have waited for Fall to renew activities. 
Rochester seems to be blessed with graduates from other cities who have come here to work. HERB WEHR­LEN, '32, of Paterson, New Jersey, came up here, landed a job with a newspaper, and worked all summer. He left last week for a teaching job in a Jersey City high school with the promise that he would some day be here permanently. ERNIE HECK­INGER, '32, of Peoria, Illinois, has been shipped here by Pittsburgh Plate Glass and is doing fine. Before long he'll be able to talk like a na­tive. WALTER (Mike and Moon) MULLINS, '32, of Tonawanda, New York is working here for Standard October, 1934 
Brands, a firm that peddles things 
like Fleischman's Gin and the Yeast 
to put you back in shape. 
JERRY SMITH -ivill take unto him­self a wife in the Log Chapel some­time this month. He promised to see you. JOE (Stubby) FLYNN joined the benedicts during the summer and when I last saw him had a smile even sunnier than usual. FRANK De-CLERCK, '33, is superintending his dad's building business. TO M BURNS, '32, is teaching and coaching basketball in a near-by high school. BILL JONES, '32, is working hard at the insurance business and like­wise furnishes locker accommodations at his house if you ever want to go swimming, Jim. DAN MALOY, '32, manages to play all the sports on the town teams in Clyde and finds time to supervise his father's business. JOnN DORSCHEL, '31, is retail dis­tribution man for Cataract Brewery. BERNIE O'CONNELL, '29, is work­ing in Ithaca for Associated Gas & Electric. JERRY BUSH, '29, is per­sonnel man for Standard Oil and is stationed in Buffalo. DICK SULLI­VAN, '32, is working for the city and manages to get around more than LOWELL THOMAS. 
While at the Fair in Chicago this summer I met FRANK MILLER, '32, of Racine, Wisconsin who was there getting ideas for his dad's printing business and preparing to startle the world of tjT)e-setters. Likewise I ran across TOM YARR, '32. He is the same old Tommy, planning to coach John Carroll in Qeveland this fall. After a long ride out to Oak Park I saw JIMMY DOWNS, ex-'32, who reports that the unemployment program has been slow in getting him back to work. 
During the summer, FRAN K MAAS, '32, of Norfolk, Nebraska, stopped off on his way East. He has his dad's store to look after besides most of the town's lovelier sex. When last sighted he was headed for a chat with FRANK CONBOY, '32, who is with Empire Gas and Electric in Geneva. 
ANTHONY CULKIN, '32, says a job has been a bit elusive as far as he is concerned but his spirit isn't killed yet by a long shot. I dont know about FRANK MORRISON, '32, but now that his father is a city official there isn't much sense in his not having a job. HARVEY ROCK­WELL, '34, went to work with little delay for a radio firm in Jersey. PETE CONNELLY, '33, is still at Albany Law School. HOWARD MA­LONE Y, '31, pesters the people on the radio trying to make every day an arbor day for his father's splendid nursery in Dansville. He was mar­ried sometime ago but I was denied the privilege of meeting her until this summer. 
As for myself, I am working in the trust department of a bank here after spending a year and a half October, 1934 

peddling stocks and bonds in the brokerage business. 
So, before long President JIMMY JONES will call us together for an­other meeting and I'll have more news to waft westward. 
PRANK NORTON, '32. 
• 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Raymond C. Marelli. •27. 1418 EiKhth St.. Rockford, HI.. President: Fran­cis \\\ Howland, '25, 902 N. JIain St., Rock­ford, 111,, Secretary. 
NOTRE D.\1IE CLUB OF RHODE ISLAND —Charles A. Grimes, '20, Paramount Bldir., ProviiJenrc, President; Cyril A. Costella. '29, 
•14 Huxley Ave., Providence, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP THE ST. JOSEPH V.-VLLEY—Paul M. BuUcr. '27. 802 I.O.O.F. Bldrr., South Bend, Ind., President: Norman .;. (lartzer, '29, 843 Forest Ave., So, Bend, Ind., Secretary. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF SPRINGFIELD— Frank Zimmerman, '26, 931 N. Rutledgc .•\vp.. President; Robert Graham, "26, 1537 
S. Douglas Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE D.AJJE CLUB OF ST. LOUIS—Dr. Thomas R. Kennedy, "14, 4200 Flad Ave., , St. Louis. President: Joseph Switaer, *32, 
323 N", Broadn-ay, St. Louis, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SIOUX CITY— V;ncent F. Harrincton, '25, Continental Mortgage Co,, President-
SYRACUSE 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SY^RACUSE AND CENTR/IL NEW YORK-W . Ed. Byrne, '26. Travelers Insurance Co.. Syracuse, N.Y., President: Ward L. Leahy, '26, 307 Forest Hill Drive, Syracuse. N, Y., Secretari'. 
-A. recent note from President ED BYRNE asked about the possibility of FATHER 0' HARA stopping off in Syracuse for a meeting with the alumni. ED said that he had driven his brother out for the opening of school but hadn't had time, unfor­tunately, to get around to the Alumni Office. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SAN ANTONIO— Harold Tynan. '27, 240 E. Huisackc Ave.. President; Kirwin J. Williams, '28. 319 W. Gramercy, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN. OHIO— 
C. J. Schmidt. '11, 260 Melmore St., Presi­dent : Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St„ Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP TOLEDO—Fred A. SprenKcr, '30. 3129 Kimball Ave, President; Joseph L. Wetii, '31, 717 Starr Ave., Scc­retarj-. 
TRI-CITIES 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRI-CITIES— Richard B. Swift, '20, Kahl BIdg., Daven­port, Iowa, President: Arthur L. Himbert, '32. 527 39th St,. Rock Island, HI., Secre­tary. 
Although all the proposed summer activities of the Notre Dame Club of the Tri-Cities were cancelled because of the intense heat, at the present time plans are being formulated by the officers and committee for busy fall and winter seasons which proba­ably will be opened in the near future Avith a combined business and social session at the Fort Armstrong Hotel in Rock Island. But more about that in a later issue! 
We recently welcomed into our 
The '^otre "Dame cAlumnus 
midst, JOSEPH E. WHALEN, '29, 
and E. I. MEAGHER, '21. JOE was 
appointed manager of the Fort Arm­
strong Hotel, a member of the Hoff­
man Hotels Corporation, on July 24, 
and moved here with his wife and 
child from Colchester, Illinois, while 
"E. I." came with his wife from Chi­
cago and is associated with the legal 
department of the Royal Neighbors 
of America at their head office in 
Rock Island. Both the WHALENS 
and MEAGHERS are residing at the 
Fort Armstrong. 
Among the members of the Tri-
City Club who became bona fide mem­
bers of the Alumni Association in 
June, WELLS ROBISON is with the 
United States Engineers with head­
quarters at the Rock Island Arsenal, 
and JOSEPH REPINE is in Chicago 
doing field work to complete his 
Sociology major in Delinquency and 
Probation. MYRON MURPHY, son 
of JAMES F., '99, and brother of 
H.A.YES F., '28, recently passed the 
Illinois State Bar E.xaraination and is 
now a member of the law firm of 
Murphy, Murphy, and Murphy. 
We may see you at the Purdue 
game which a number from here are 
planning to attend to help cheer the 
efforts of ELMER LAYDEN, our 
fellow member and coach. Incident­
ally, ELMER and MRS. LAYDEN 
were visitors in Davenport over the 
Labor Day week-end. 
Arthur L. Himbert, Secretary. 

TRIPLE CITIES 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE CITIES —Joseph Carey. '32. 20 Roosevelt Ave., En­dicott, N, Y., President: Regis McNamara, '33, 13 Crandall St.. Binghamton, N. Y., Secretary. 
The Triple Cities -'Alumni Club has its fall meetings in the very near part of June, when they had a joint Student and Alumni Meeting which proved verj' successful. 
This meeting, I believe, cemented a closer relationship between the Students and Alumni. Plans were discussed for a summer formal but due to vacations, etc. a dance was not held. 
The -4.1umni Club expects to start their fall meetings in the very near future under the leadership of ED­WARD O'BRIEN, Vice President of the Club, —JOSEPH CAREY, the President having accepted a position with the Cotton Garment Code Au­thority, working out of the Cincin­nati, Ohio Office. 
Very sorry to report the death of BOB RICE, Jr. which occurred Sep­tember 3. Bob was a very active member of the Alumni Club and will be missed. 
BUD KANE, '29, is interning at St. Vincent's Hospital, New York City, and incidentally he was one of the first doctors to treat the Morro Castle victims rescued by the Mon­arch of Bermuda, and was kind enough to write our local newspaper 
a very interesting account of the 
wreck. 
FRANK CONOLE, student in '27 
and '28, is interning in St. Lake's 
Hospital, Bethlehem, Pa. 
PETER J. WACKS, '30, has be­
come associated with the law firm of 
Chemin and Gold in Binghamton, 
having completed his law course at 
Cornell University in June. 
JOHN O'BRIEN, student '27 and 
'28, is serving his intemeship at the 
Binghamton City Hospital. 
WILLIAM AYRES, '34, is doing 
newspaper work for the Bingham­
ton Sim. 
JAMES HOGAN, '33, is a cadet 
teacher for the Binghamton School 
System. 
JOHN DONNELLY, '33, is man­
aging his father's business, which, by 
the way, is a hotel. John also sur­
prised the community by announcing 
his marriage, which took place Janu­
ary 1, 1933. 
With the exception of yours truly, 
there are no other changes in the 
alumni. I am connected with the 
Eastern Kock Products company, and 
have been nominated by the Demo­
cratic Party for state senator. 
With kindest personal regards and 
until there is something new to re­
port, I am, 
REGIS C. McNAMARA, Secretary. 
Just a line to let you know that Bob Rice, ex-'33, passed away Mon­day morning after an illness of three months and request that you have the prayers of Notre Dame offered up for him. 
You will, no doubt, recall that Bob was with you a lot that day you were in the Triple Cities calling at the schools and that he was then antici­pating a trip to Europe the following week. He made the trip and returned around the first of June and a few days after his return became ill—^the trouble being a heart condition and dropsy developed toward the end. 
The funeral was held this morning with the following members of the Alumni Association acting as pall­bearers : Regis McNamara, Daniel Mc-Avoy, Joseph Hennessey, Harold Kel­ley, William and James Hogan. 
It was impossible for me to act as pallbearer, inasmuch as I am travel­ing for the Cotton Garment Code Authority as Auditor with headquar­ters in Cincinnati, Ohio. I was home over the holiday and requested you be notified of Bob's death. 
You can continue sending my mail to Endicott until I am able to obtain a permanent address. 
With kindest regards, I am 
JOE CAREY,President 
2 Roosevelt Avenue, 
Endicott, New York. 
• 

TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— Eugene A. O'Brien. '28. 15 S. Fifth St.. Minneapolis. Minn.. President: John D. Yel­land, '30. 3221 Holmes Ave.. S.. Minneapolis, Minn.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTICA. NEW YORK—Dr. John F. Kelley. •22, Peoples' Gas and Electric Bldp.. President: Joseph 
W. Fullem. '31. 1621 Neilson St., Secretary. 
UTAH 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTAH—Raymond 
R. Brady, '24. 206 Keams Bids.. Salt Lake City, President: Cyril Harbccke, '19, 64 F. St.. Salt Lake City, Secrctarj-. 
July 3, 1934. 

This is belated considerably, but I trust welcome nevertheless. 
We celebrated the annual Univer­sal Notre Dame Night with a dozen fellows present. We had our usual business meeting at which the in­cumbent officers were re-elected by acclamation and the usual Dutch lunch and beer. 
When Father O'Donnell died Bish­op James E. Kearney said a special Mass in the Cathedral of the Made­leine in this city at which practically our entire organization was present. The Bishop had special cards printed which he caused to be distributed at the Mass, and I am sending you one of these to show you the interest that was taken here. 
About two weeks ago we had the great pleasure of entertaining Elmer Layden during his short stay in this city. A luncheon was arranged in the main dining room of the Univer­sity Club in this city at which 32 former Notre Dame men, as well as many leading citizens of this com­munity, were present. His Excellency, Governor Heni-j- H. Blood, honored us with his presence at the luncheon, as well as District Judges, members of the City Commission and promi­nent civic leaders. 
I wish to ad\ase you that HENRY 
E. WEISS, former secretarj' of the club and also a member of our Board of Governors, has been trans­ferred to Kansas Cit}', Missouri, where he is now with the Allis­Chalmei-s Company. We are certain­ly sorrj' to lose Henry, but our loss is Kansas Citj''s gain, and I would suggest that you communicate with the organization there and have them get in touch with him, because he would make a valuable addition to any organization. 
—RAY BRADY, President. 
WABASH VALLEY 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE WABASH VALLEY—Noble Klzer. •2,i. Purdue Uni­versity, Lafayette, Ind., President: Peter Vojrt, Secretary-Treasurer, 
A welcome letter from HEEJL4N KAMP, Lafayette, former president of the Wabash Valley Club, asked recently for some information to pass along to a prospective student. Out of such interest and activity comes a greater Notre Dame. 
The 'Klotre 'Daine cAlumnus 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN PENN­
SYLVANIA—Ed. G. Byrnes. '26, 122 Hast­
inKS St., Pittsbursh, President: Charles 
Shecdy, '33. 5540 Br>ant St., Pittsbursh, 
Secretary. 

CH.A.RLEY SHEEDY sent along the following in July: 
I realize it's been quite a long while since you've heard from the western Pennsylvania organization, but we've had a change of administration in the meantime, and the usual delays, and so on. 
Election of offifficers was held last month: ED BYRNES was elected president; CARL GOETTLER, vice-president; CHARLES E. SHEEDY, secretary; and LOU FOLLETT, treasurer. A Board of Governors also was chosen: JOHN C. SHEEDY for a term of three years; BER-
Thc Gcarffctown-Notrc Dame luncheon in Pittsburgh icith Jack Dcmpscy as chief guest. Left to right, front row: Promoter Ray Bab­cock, Jack Dcmpscy, .-U Diebotd, 'S7; Christy Flanagan, 'Z8. Second rowi Buddy Overcnd. graduate manager at Carnegie Tech: Ed Byrnes, *35, president, X.D. club: Joe Smith, president, Georgetown club. Third row: Ches­ter Smith, sports editor, Pittsburgh Press: Joe Bach, 'S5. 
NAED KAISER for two years; ED BYRNES for five years; and DR. LEO D. O'DONNELL for one year. That's the story on the election. 
There isn't a great deal more that I have to say. We had our annual outing and golf tournament at the Field Club on the 24th of May. It was a miserable day, but we had a good turnout. No records were bro­ken, however. 
JOE BACH and CHRISTY FLAN­AGAN had a busy spring whipping their football team into shape. CHRISTY is back in Texas now, but will return to Pittsburgh in Septem­ber. 
Needless to say, ELMER LAYDEN has no stronger backers anywhere than in Pittsburgh—not only among Notre Dame alumni, but everyone else; he was very highly respected here. 
No doubt you ^\•ill be seeing some of us off and on throughout the fall. 
P. S. Forgot something: Thursday luncheons now being held at the Commodore, by the Stanley Theater. 
October. 1934 
It goes without saying that out of town members are more than wel­come. 
And on September 15, AL DIE­BOLD came along with the follow­ing; "Jack Dempsey came on the for the Yarosz-Dundee fight and on September 10 the Notre Dame alum­ni gave a luncheon in conjunction with the Georgetown alumni. Jack Dempsey was one of the notables present. Over one hundred alumni of the two schools turned out for the party, which was held in the Com­modore Grille." 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BL\ST. PENN­SYLVANIA—Leo R. Mclnlyre, '2S, Bethle­hem. Pa.. President. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 

NOTRE DA JIE CLUB OF WESTERN WASH­INGTON — Joseph Sinnott, 'OS, 1931 E. Lynn St., Seattle. President: E. Morris Starrett. '21. SOI W.ishinKton St., Port Townsend, Secretary. 
A note from DR. CL.A.RENCE W. SHANNON, OS. '02, carried the in­formation that JOE SINNOTT, '08, 1931 East Lynn Street, Seattle, had succeeded him as president of the Notre Dame Club of Western Wash­ington. Presumably, MORRIS ST.A.R­RET, Port Townsend, is taking time cat, even in the football season, to continue as secretary of the club. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY— John Robinson. "28. 32 FarminKton .\ve.. President: James M. Monashan, "27, 41 Ayer St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WHEELING. tV. V.\.—Thomas F. Howlcy, '11, Citizens-Peo­ples Trust Co,. WheelinjT, President: Georce SarKus. '28. 2111 Belmont. Bellaire. Ohio, Secretary. 
THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAJIE Sister M. Fre<lcrick. C.S.C, '24. St. Man's Collejre. Notre Dame. President: Miss Rose Steffaniak. '26. 161 Walnut St.. Goldwater, Michif^an. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGSTOWN— John Moran. '29, 1348 Quinn, President: Charles Cushwa, "31, 2227 CordDVa .\vc„ Secretary. 
N. D. In Korea 

News printed in a Japanese paper carried word of the appointment of Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, as pres­ident of Notre Dame to a missionary priest in far off Korea, according to a letter received recently at the Uni­versit}'. 
Father Edward Barron, M.JI., a former student at the University and now a missionarj' in the province of Anchu, Korea, glancing at the news­paper from the mainland, was star­tled to see the picture of his friend. Father O'Hara, in a publication printed 4000 miles from Notre Dame. 
Further investigation revealed a full account of the inauguration cere­monies and a glowing tribute to the work of Father O'Hara. 
Father Barron was a student at Notre Dame in 1918 and later joined the MaryknoU Mission Band. 

October, 1934 The "^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 
MARRIAGES AND ENGAGEMENTS 
OSCAR P. SMITH, '95, and Mrs. Marguerite F. King were married in St. Ambrose Church, Milan, Illinois, June 7. 
EDMUND MEAGHER, '21, and Miss Pauline Proctor were married on July 23, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
DR. P.A.TRrCK C. DORAN, '23, 
and Jliss Florence K. Canier were 
married on August 4, at the Log 
Chapel, Notre Dame. 
JAMES D. HURLEY, '24, and Miss Emily Reinhard were married on Sep­tember 1, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
CHARLES W. DONAHUE, '25, and Miss Frances O'Brien were mar­ried on June 27, in Montclair, New Jersey. 
VINCENT J. SCHNEIDER, '25, and Miss Kathryn L. Beminger were married August 9, in Erie, Pennsyl­vania. 
JAMES W. WRAPE, '25, and Miss Lila H. McGehee were mamed Sep­tember 27, in Memphis, Tennessee. 
DR. GERALD W. HAYES, '26, and Miss Florence M. Auth were mamed September 15, in South Orange, New Jersey. 
MAURICE P. COHEN, '27, and Miss Esther Kaplan were married June 29, in South Bend. 
JOHN DRISCOLL, '27, and Miss Genevieve Fitch were married June 2, at St. James Church, Cleveland. 
FRANCIS MORAN, '27, and Miss Mary Voelkers were married June 16, at St. Patrick's Church, South Bend. 
THOMAS R. CONROY, '27, and Miss Dora Shultz were married July 10, St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York. 
H. JUSTIN CORCOR-A.N, '27, and Miss Elizabeth Denman wex-e mar­ried June 5, in Ithaca, New York. 
JOHN F. LEITZINGER, '28, was married July 31, in Clearfield, Penn­sylvania. 
HUGH L. CAMPBELL, '27, and Miss Margaret Smith were married last spring in Hazleton, Pa. 
EDWARD McKEOWN, '28, and Miss Blanche Keegan were married August 29, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
JOSEPH MADDEN, '28, was mar­ried August 29, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
PHILIP CENEDELLA, Jr., '28, and Miss Agnes E. Kanaley were married September 1, in Weedsport, New York. 
DR. DANIEL J. BRADLEY, '28, and Miss Winifred M. Conway were married June 30, in Brooklyn, New York. 
DR. FRANCIS A. HEGARTY, '28, and Miss Louise -A.. Brieger were married August 30, at St.-Mary-of­the-Woods, Indiana. 
JOSEPH P. KISSLING, '28, and Miss Alice Rita Duggan were married June 30, in Church of the Sacred Heart, Bronx, New York. 
JOHN McSORLEY, Jr., '28, and Miss Catherine C. Maloney were mar­ried September 17, in St. Paul's Cathedral, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
MICHAEL T. RICKS, '28, and Miss Veronica K. Joi-dan were mar­ried September 15, at Lafayette, In­diana. 
EVERETT A. JEWELL, '29, and Miss Carolyn E. Hinshaw were mar­ried September 22, in Indianapolis. 
PHILIP LANDSMAN, '29, and Miss Alene Famum were married June 22, in Chicago. 
RALPH ZIMMERMAN, '29, and Miss Gretchen McCarthy were mar­ried July 24, in Springfield, 111. 
CHARLES A. HASKELL, '29, and Miss Irene Mary Conway were mar­ried July 14, at St. Francis Cathe­dral, Santa Fe, New Mexico. 
EDWARD J. ENGLAND, '30, and Miss Jean Brady were married June 21, at Holy Name Church, Winfield, Kansas. 
JOHN J. QUINN, '30, and Miss Maiy Conway were married June 9, at St. Philomena's Church, Cleve­land. 
JAMES A. ALLAN, '30, and Miss Katherine Dittmar were married September 15, at St. Ignatius Church, Chicago. 
LAURENCE F. ENRIGHT, '30, and Miss Fi-ances Boyce were mar­ried in August, in Chicago. 
JOSEPH V. STODOLA, e.x. '32, and Miss Helen -A.. Grachan were married September 1, in Hammond, Indiana. 
JOHN Z-A.BACK, '31, and Miss Ethel D. Edwards were married Sep­tember 15, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
THOMAS J. DONOVAN, ex. '33, and Miss Mary Callender were mar­ried in July, at Naperville, Illinois. 
JAMES S. SWIFT, e.x. '31, and Miss Marie Wessel were married July 2, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
FRED RAHAIM, '31, and Miss Constance D. Picros were married last April 22, in Jacksom-ille, Florida. 
JOSEPH DEEB, '31, was married July 6, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
CARLOS PALOMINO, '31, and Senorita Maria A. Obregon were married in September, in Mexico City, Mexico. 
ANDREW P. BARTON, '32, and Miss Dorothea Bettinger were mar­ried June 16, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
NEIL C. HURLEY, Jr., '32, and Miss Mary Ruth Fairman were mar­ried June 23, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
EMMETT MURPHY, ex. '32, and Miss Virginia Comerford were mar­ried June 11, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
GREGORY F. FRANZWA, '32, and Miss Mary Joan Bilyeu were married May 20, in Portland, Ore­gon. 
EDWARD B. KILLEEN, '33, and Miss Marian V. Bauman were mar­ried August 11, at St. Ann's Church, Cleveland Heights, Ohio. 
PHILIP L. KONOP, '33, and Miss Pauline Snow were married July 3, in Louisville, Kentucky. 
PAUL NIC JANSON, ex. '33, and Miss Mary Horgan were married July 7, at Holy Family Church, Cin­cinnati, Ohio. 
JAMES P. DANEHY, '33, and Miss Margaret Dickson were married June 16, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
MIGUEL J. YRIBERRY, '34, and Miss Catherine L. Marger were mar­ried July 21, at St. Joseph's Church, South Bend. 
HUGH B. O'NEIL, '84, and Miss Joan E. Zimmers were married April 15, at Notre Dame. 
ALOYSIUS G. WEIMER, '34, and Miss Phillis McKowen were married August 9, in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
PAUL E. KEMPTER, Jr., 'Zi, and Miss Edna L, Shuster were married August 11, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
TH0JL4S R. GRIMES, '34, and Miss Dorothy Weidlin were married July 29, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
V-ANCE N. UHLMEYER, '32, and Miss Elizabeth McManus were mar­ried June 12, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Edith Mary Riley and JOHN V. McMANMON, '28, of Lowell, Massachusetts. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Jlrs. SHERWOOD DDCON, '20, are the parents of a son, Henry Sherwood, bom May 19, Dixon, niinois. 
Mr. and Mrs. CLARENCE "JAKE" KLINE, '21, are the parents of a son, Joseph, bom July 5, South Bend, In­diana. ' 
Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL J. REGAN, '23, announce the arrival of their third daughter, Dora Ann, on Sep­tember 2, in -Austin, Texas. 
Mr. and Mrs. NORMAN FELTES, '24, announce the arrival of a daugh­ter on July 25, Glencoe, Illinois. 
Mr. and Mrs. CLARENCE BUNCE, '25, LaPorte, Indiana, announce the arrival of a son, John Joseph, on August 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK A. REESE, '25, announce the birth of a son, Frank Gilliam, on April 15, Raleigh, North Carolina. 
Mr. and Mrs. HAROLD KLEIN, '26, are the parents of a daughter, Jo Ann, bom August 15. 
Mr. and Mi-s. C. TOYNTON SCHLEGEL, '28, announce the ar­rival of a son, James Toynton, on September 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM ROBERT STOEPLER, '28, announce the ar­rival of a daughter, Marj' Clare, on August 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. JACK SHEEDY, '28, Pittsburgh, are the parents of a son. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE W. DAP­SON, '29, announce the arrival of a daughter, Mary Ann, on August 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANKLYN E. DOAN, '29, announce the arrival of a daughter, Loma Marie, on August 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. HAROLD N. SIMP­SON, '30, announce the birth of a daughter, Carmen Margarita, on Au­gust 3, Chicago, Illinois. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. G. O'KEEFFE, '30, are the parents of a daughter, Mar­garet Lessie, bom June 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE MUL­LINS, '31, announce the an-ival of a son, Michael William, on July 11, Atchison, Kansas. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT BALFE, '31, announce the arrival of a daugh­ter, Beverly Anne, on August 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE HENT^ON, '32, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Mary Clare, on July 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. LEO T. CLARK, '32, announce the arrival of a daughter, Anne, on July 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. McNA-MARA, '33, announce the arrival of a daughter, Angela Marie, on August 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN WALLACE, '27, Calumet City, Illinois, are the parents of a daughter. 
DEATHS 
EARL S. DICKENS, el. '22, sec­retary to Father John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., when the latter was president of Notre Dame, died suddenly in South Bend on June 30 whence he had come from Detroit to visit his sister. 
After leaving Notre Dame, Mr. 
Dickens became sales manager of the 
O'Brien Varnish Company in South 
Bend. He later became secretary 
and treasurer of the Dolphin Paint 
and Varnish Company in Toledo and 
at the time of his death was secre­
tary and sales and advertising mana­
ger of the Beck-KoUer Company of 
Detroit, manufacturers of synthetic 
resins and chemical products. 
Surviving are a sister. Miss Ethel 
Dickens of South Bend, and a 
brother, Lyman, of Sioux City, Iowa. 
THOMA.S J. TOBIN. '07, one of the most prominent road construction conti-actora of the Northwest, died in his home in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, on June 14. His death fol­lowed a lingering illness which was the direct result of an automobile accident in which he had been seri­ously injured two years ago. Mr. Tobin had carried out immense con­struction projects in the West and the Southwest in addition to those in the Dakotas. Surviving are Mrs. Tobin, one daughter, two sisters and a brother. 
GEORGE W. FLICK, '28, promi­nent j'oung attorney in Fort Wayne, Indiana, was instantly killed in an auto accident on June 30. Besides being a member of the Fort Wayne legal firm of Eggeman, Reed and Cleland, George was outstandingly active in the Democratic politics of the city. He had received his law degree at GeorgetowTi following his 
A.B. at Notre Dame. Surviving are his mother, a brother and three sis­ters. 
JOSEPH J. LOCKE, ex. '30, out­standing football player during his days at Notre Dame, died at his home in Chicago on September 4. He was buried on September 7. Father J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., preached the funeral sermon and many other rep­resentatives of Notre Dame were present at the services. Joe had been assistant football coach at Holy Cross College, Worcester, Massa­chusetts, following his Notre Dame days. He had been in ill health be­fore his death. 
PAUL E. HARTUNG, '99, for 25 years a prominent real estate dealer in the Edgewater district of Chicago, died at his home on June 22. He is survived by Mrs. Hartung, two sons and two daughters. 
JAMES G. HENLEY, '93, a neph­ew of the late Cardinal Gibbons and for many years one of the foremost labor leaders in Michigan, died in Jackson, Michigan, on September 14, after a heart attack. At the time of his death he was publisher of the Jackson Square Deal, labor paper, and had pre%'iously served as secre­tary of the Michigan Federation of Labor as an organizer for the Ameri­can Federation of Labor. He was the founder of the Jackson Relief Kitchen. 
Word was received during the 
summer of the death of JOHN A. 
WRIGHT, '89, of Tucson, Arizona. 
ANDREW P. COOLIDGE, '93, 
died June 30, in Helena, Arkansas. 
DR. RALPH VAN SANT, '95, died 
in -August in Casper, Wyoming. 
REUBEN P. NOUD, '13, died July 
12, in Pasadena, Califomia. 
HARRY J. HOFFMAN, '22, died 
August 13, in Cleveland, Ohio. 
Word has been received of the death of ROBERT RICE, ex. '30, in Johnson Citj% N. Y. 
PERSONALS 
CLASS SECRETARIES 
BEFORE 1880 —Hon Thomas F. Gallagher, 
Fitchburs, Mass. 
lSSO-85—Prof. Robert M. Anderson. Circlcville, 
Ohio. 1886—Michael O. Burns. 338 S. Second St., Hamilton, Ohio. 1887 — Hon. Warren A. Cartier. Ludinston, 
Michifiran. 1888—John L. Heineman, Connersville, Ind. 1889—P. E. Burke. 301 Camp St.. New Or­leans, Louisiana 
1890 
1890-03—Louis P. Chute, 7 University Ave., ^linneapolts, Slinnesota 
In a letter to ART HALEY, FER­DINAND G. LONG recalled the good old shin-kicking days on the campus. He said in part: ". . . . I have taken part in the orig­inal soccer style of football as we used to play it on the campus before the Rugby type came into use. Sides were chosen from the whole body of students—all of them playing—and the men preferably selected by each captain for his ability to do a good job of shin kicking in the melees. The football was a rubberized black globe, and the prize to the winning side was a barrel of apples fresh from the farm. Just reminiscing—^Thank you." 
• 
1894 
1894-Hugh A. O'Donnell, 1 W. 67th St. New York City. 
I understand that FRANK L. CARNEY recently visited JUDGE FRANK BOLTEN of Newark, Ohio. Both Franks are getting on very well. Judge Bolten is about the most dis­tinguished citizen in Newark. 
BILL CORRELL'S nephew, Mr. Caulfield of Johnstown, Pennsylvania, has just been married to the daugh­

October, 1934 The flotre 'Dame cAlumnus 
ter of Mr. Tumulty, former secretary of President of the United States, Mr. Wilson. 
There are not many in my class to hear from. Most of them have joined the great majority but here and there one finds an alumnus of that year. All of them seem to be getting on fairly well and some very well. 
Hugh A. O'Donnell. 

1S!13—Eustace Cullinan. Sr.. 860 Phclan Bids.. San Francisco, Calif. 
1836—William P. Burns. 327 Willard Ave. Michigan City, Indiana 
1S97—Rev. Joiin A. MacNamara, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
1S98—William C Kecler. 9th and Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 
IS09—Dr. Joseph F. Duane, -IIS Jefferson Bid?.. Peoria. Illinois. 
1900—John W. EfTBcraan. Old First Bank BIdff.. Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
1301—Joseph J. Sullivan. 1300. ISO N. Clark St.. Chicaso, HI. 
1902—C. C. Mitchell. 110 S. Dearborn St., Bo.i 
3. Chicago, Illinois. 
1903—Francis P. Burle. 90-1 Trust Company Bldff.. Milwaukee. Wisconsin. 
1904 
1904—Robert Proctor, Monger BIdg., Elkhart. Indiana. 
The only news I have of the class of 1904 is that of the Lay Retreat. The class was represented by BY­RON V. KANALEY and myself. I think this was the largest represen­tation from any class prior to 'OA. 
JUDGE EGGEMAN and JOE HUTZELL of Fort Wayne, Byron and myself had a big time reviewing old incidents occurring in our time at Notre Dame. We will meet again next year at the Retreat. 
R. E. Proctor. 

1903—Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. LaSalle St.. Chicago, Illinois. 
1906—Thomas A. Lally. 811-13 Paulsen Bldg., Spokane, Washington. 
1908—Frank X. Cull. Bulklcy Bldg., Qeveland. Ohio. 
1909—E. P. Clcary, Kotre Dame, Indiana. 
1910—Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 1900 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 
1911 
19II—Fred L. Steers. 16.'!3 First Nation,il Bk. Bldg., Chicago, Illinois. 
Elmo Funk of Anderson, Indiana, spent a happy day on the campus when he brought his son to enter the University as a Freshman. The jujiior Funk chose Notre Dame in preference to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis and is delighted with his choice. 
FRED STEERS turns reporter for various classes with the following: 
"EDMUND J. MEAGHER, '21, who has practiced law for 13 years in Chicago, has moved to Rock Island, Illinois, where he is general counsel for the Insurance Department of the Royal Neighbors. 
FRANCIS H. HAYES, '14, is now living in the desert back of San Diego. He is greatly improved in health and has regained his youth­ful figure by losing 25 pounds. He touches civilization occasionally at 820 Bank of America Building, San Diego. 
"KEENE P. FITZPATRICK, '11, of San Francisco, came East on busi­ness and pleasure this summer and visited his old friends and acquaint­ances in and about Chicago. Keene is in the advertising business. 
"FOREST FLETCHER, '15, paid his old home town, Chicago, a visit this summer while he and family surveyed the Fair. Forest is teaching at Washington and Lee University at Lexington, Virginia. He is still in­terested in things athletic, being pres­ident of the Southern Intercollegiate Conference. Fletch is remembered as a crask hurdler, sprinter and high jumper of his day. 
FRANCIS J. KIRCHMAN, '14, Wahoo, Nebraska, came to Chicago to see the Fair and dropped in on his classmates and Notre Dame friends for some pleasant visits. He is a lawyer-banker in his home town. 
"WILLIAM STILLING —old stu­dent—1909, 1910, 1911, has an auto­mobile agency in McHenry, Illinois. 
"WILLIAM MCCARTHY,—old stu­dent—1909, 1910, is living in Bur­lington, Wisconsin." 
1912-B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St.. Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania. 
1913—James R. Devitt. 921 Engineers Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio. 
1914 
1914—Frank H. Hayes. 406 Bank of America Bldg., Anaheim, Calif. 
JEROME WILDGEN, of Hoising­ton, Kansas, sent Father John J. Cavanaugh, '23, a pleasant note to introduce his nephew, Henry Wild-gen, who took the ten-day boy guid­ance course at the University this summer. Jerome represents the Bruce-Macbeth Engine Company of Cleveland. He said: "May I extend to you and my many friends at the University my kindest regards." 
• 1915 
1915—James E, Sanford. 1033 S. Linden Ave., Highland Paark, Illinois. 
Tom Shaughnessy wrote especially to say that he had been present at the 1934 Commencement and Alumni Reunion even though his name wasn't among those listed in the June ALUMNUS as being present. Our apologies now! The mechanics of compiling such a list is long and in­volved and entails many hazards of 
1916—Timothy P. Calvin. 708 First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Indiana. 
O 

1917 
1917—Edward J. McOsker, 104 S. Union St.. Elgin, Illinois. 
Under personals and imder Class of 1917 in the May issue of the ALUMNUS is a flagrant example of reportorial inaccuracy and more's the pity, by a graduate of the School of Journalism—in other words Paul Fo­garty is one of the reasons why Prof. Cooney hasn't any more hair than he has. 1 could almost accuse Fogarty of spreading false propaganda about one of the publishing sensations of the new era just because he thinks radio is the only worthwhile adver­tising medium. 
Leisure is published by Frederick 
E. Atwood, founder and for many years publisher of the magazine An­tiques. Leisure is an attempt to edu­cate and encourage persons of all ages and tastes to spend their leisure time in more interesting and worthy pursuits. Although I take pleasure in sending you a sample copy I am hap­py to say you will find it in the Uni­versity Library. Also, practically ev­ery student in the Boy Guidance course is a subscriber. Beginning with the current issue it is on the news stands from coast to coast; you will find it in over 500 public, college and school libraries in various sections of the country and in the International Magazine Rack in the Times-Fortune building at the Century of Progress Exposition. Thus you will see Jim, Leisure has little to do with foster­ing New England summer resorts, ex­cept for the paid advertising carried in our columns. 
Incidentally Jim, I'd be very glad to mail a sample copy to any member of the class of 1917, or in fact any Notre Dame man who may be inter­ested. As for Fogarty—^I hope to get to Chicago sometime during the sum­mer to tell him just what I think of him and his Krank Lather broadcast. 
John U. Riley. 

1918—John A. Lcmmer, 1110-8th Ave., S., Es­canaba. Michigan. 
1919—Oarence Bader, 630 Pierce St , Gary, Indiana. 
1920—Leo B. Ward. 1912 Black Bldg., Los Angeles, California. 
1921—Alden J. Cusick. 1 Park Ave.. New York City. 
1922 
1922—Gerald Ashe. 226 Glen Ellyn Way. Rocfiester, New York. 
One of the highlights of the sum­mer in Chicago was the Roger J. Kiley Day outing at the Medinah Country Club on July 9. More than 1,000 men and women turned out to honor the Chicago alderman. The entry in the golf tournament ran to more than 500. 
W"ord comes that Vince Hanrahan is still down in Guatemala and ex­pects to be there for another two years. He became the father of Vin­cent Brooks Hanrahan on April 26. His address is Callejon Melgar No. 20, Guatemala City, Central America. 
1923 
1923—Paul Castncr. White Motor Company. Gcvdand, Ohio. Jack Norton, in a recent letter to Father O'Hara said that he and Dr. Kevin Curran had got together a couple of times in Chicago. Kevin's address, incidentally, is 800 West 56th Street, Kansas City, Missouri. Jack's is 1522 Thomdale Avenue, Chi­cago. Said Jack: "While Kevin was in Chicago I visited with him on two occasions, and although it has been 11 years since we parted at Notre Dame, the first meeting seemed like a night back at school, for we re­viewed all the old memories. We were so entranced that we expected the lights to go out at ten o'clock." Kevin, a recent visitor at Notre Dame as well as in Chicago, was re­cently one of the central figures in a thrilling episode at Mackinac Island, Michigan. Called upon to give first aid to a girl whose arm had been pierced by a rusty nail, Kevin and his companion, Dr. John A. Malley, advised the immediate use of tetanus serum. None was available on the island or nearby, so a supply was rushed by plane from St. Joseph's Island, Port Arthur, Ontario. The story made the Chicago Tribune. 
m 
1924 
1924—James F. Hayes, Fifth Avenue Ass'n., Empire State Bide.. N- 1'- City. -An interesting letter from Father Joe Rick, C.S.C, asked that his ad­dress be changed to Ranikong Alis­sion, Bagmara P.O., Mymensingh Dt., Bengal, India. He reported that a bad flood had taken a lot of his en­ergy and his relief funds. He was busily engaged at the time of ^^•riting, trying to recover both. Needless to say, any assistance from this side of the world would be welcome. (Editor's Note: This is our own private idea— not Father Rick's). 
A card from the Vatican City made known the fact that Kay Brady, of Salt Lake City, was traveling through Europe. He had already been to Eng­land, France and Germany. Continu­iing his journey, he expected to reach Notre Dame between September 20 aand 25 for a few days' visit. 
Henry Fannan, one of Doctor Cooney's stars in former days, has recently been elected Grand Kiiight of the Knights of Columbus Council in Rockford, Illinois. 
BILL BAILEY, 14 Galloway Ave., Newburgh, New York, in a recent let­ter, sends "best regards to you and to any of the fellows from the Class of 1924 whom you may meet. About the only N.D. men I see much of are CONNIE ALT, who is i\-ith me at the duPont Fabrikoid, JOHN FLAN­AGAN, one of the bright stars of the local legal firmament, and my brother Jim who is at the Newark duPont plant. If you should see or hear from 
TIM RAUH, PAUL De PAOLIS or 
CHARLIE ROBRECHT, I would like 
to hear from them." 
See you Nov. 24, for a victory cele­
bration. 
• 1925 
1925—John \V. Scall.-in. Fullman Co., 79 E. Adams St.. Chicaso, III. 
The grapevine brings the news that Virgil Pagan is %vith Sears Roebuck & Co., in Chicago, writing advertis­ing for farm machinerj'. 
• 1926 
1926—Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, 96 N. W.nlnut St. East Orange. N. J. ED CROWE, of the Lafeyette Crowes, is state secretary of the Holy Name Society in Michigan and as such was a prominent figure at the state convention in Battle Creek. ED is in Detroit, at 1496 Campbell Ave­nue. LARRY KEEPE, who has a cup for every purpose, hopes in a note to Classmate HALEY, the football tick­et maestro, that he will "be able to drop in to see you this Fall." LARRY would have to "drop" from New Yawk City, in case you don't know. He is head man for the Lily-Tulip Cup Corporation. All of which fades into the w.k. insignificance beside the fact that it's now DR. and Mrs. GERALD WEL­DON HAYES. See the vital statis­tics column for the details. Congratu­lations to the class secretary—and hopes for a more active typewriter. 
• 1927 
1927—Edmund Dcacrq. 8IIS Ellis Ave.. Chi­cago, Illinois. TOM "RED" HEARDEN, former co-captain of the football team, has transferred his coaching activities in Racine, Wisconsin, from St. Cather­ine's High School to Washington Park High School. The Milwaukee Joui-nal for August 26 carried his picture together with the story. And Attorney JOHN J. WALL­ACE, of Calumet City, Illinois, is be­ginning another year as football coach at Central Catholic High School in Hammond, Indiana, which is just across the state line from Calumet City. JOHN, by the way, has recently become the father of a third daughter. Score: S.M.C., 3; N.D., 0. 
• 1928 
1928—Louis Buckley, "IS E. Corby St., South Bend. Indiana. LEO McINTYRE, Bethlehem, Pa., newspaper man and politician, was out for the Lay Retreat in August. An anouncement to the Alumni Office makes known the association of JOHN T. CULLINAN, '28, and ALBERT L. COLES for the practice of law in the First Bridgeport 
National Bank Building, Bridgeport, 
Connecticut. 
Another announcement, this one 
from JOHN ANTUS, says that he 
is now engaged in the general prac­
tice of law in Suite 718, 25 West 
43rd Street, New York City. 
Joe Langton is being different by 
selling gas instead of whiskey in 
Peoria. Sending his dues, he writes: 
"The Peoria-N. D. Club has not 
been so active as might be during the 
summer months. However we did 
manage to have a picnic the middle 
of June and were able to meet some 
new members but old grads who have 
come here with the new breweries 
and distilleries. 
"It has been some time since I have 
written you, but due to being busy 
and changing positions I haven't had 
much time. .A.t the present writing 
I am out on the road auditing for 
the Phillips Petroleum Co. with my 
headquarters at Peoria. Being out 
on the road this way gives me an op­
portunity to see some of the fellows. 
I ran into an old pal of yours the 
other night, FRANK HOWLAND, 
'25. Frank is now in the insurance 
business in Rockford. We had a nice 
long chat talking over the Glee Club. 
"I also saw VINCE CARNEY in 
Rochelle. Vince is sho\\-ing the young 
men of Rochelle the correct things in 
men's furnishings. 
"I don't know whether I will be 
able to get down to school for any of 
the games this fall or not. However, 
I will be seeing the Northwestern 
game in Chicago. 
"Give mv regards to BILL DOOL­
EY and LOUIE BUCKLEY and tell 
him I said to quit being so lazy and 
write his own column." 
The Class Secretan' savs: 
DR. BERNARD P. " CROWLEY 
has opened his office for the practice 
of dentistry at 1139 Belle\-ue Ave., 
Richmond Heights, Missouri. 
BILL JONES stopped off in South 
Bend for a \-isit on his semi-annual 
journey to Detroit from Helena, Mon­
tana where he continues to practice 
law with the firm of Walsh & Nagle. 
BILL KIRWIN, who is with Mont­gomery Ward & Co. in Madison, Wis., visited the campus this summer with his wife and daughter. Bill stopped long enough to talk over Lyons Hall days with Father Doremus and Corby Hall days with your class secretaiy. 
HOWIE PHALIN and his wife were present at ED Mc KEOWN'S wedding in the Log Chapel on August 
29. Both Howie and Ed are located in Chicago. 
GEORGE BYRNE of BrookljTi, New York spent a day on the campus on his way to the World's Fair. George reports that the gang in N. Y. City manage to get together quite often and are behaving as well as could be ex­pected. DON CORBETT, according to George, is starting out like F. D. 

R. as Assemblyman in the New York State legislature. 
AL GUEY, from Peoria, registered his brother at Notre Dame after hav­ing visited the campus in August. 
GUS JENKINS, who brought three prospective students with him from Williamsville, N. Y. for Commence­ment, writes that they were favor­ably impressed and are now Fresh­men at the University. 
• 


1»29 
1929—Joseph McNnmnra, 231 Wisconsin St.. Indiannpolis, Indians. Along with his annual dues, OLLIE SCHELL sent a note saying that he is now living at 310 Riverside Drive, New York City, having moved from 611 West 111th Street. Also—"I am now with the Ford Motor Company here in New York; otherwise things are verv much the same with me." JOE HARTNETT'S younger bro­ther, VINCE, is a Sophomore at Notre Dame this year, having trans­ferred after his Freshman year at Fordham. JOE'S address is 21 Lau­rel Place, New Rochelle, New York. PAUL BROKHAGE, 1645 N. Ala­bama Street, Apt. 1, Indianapolis, wi'ites: "Here it is. Five bucks! The check's good, too. Jim so maybe my dues will be paid after all. "Maybe I could give you some dope for the next number of the ALUM­NUS. First of all comes BILL O'­CONNOR. I saw him last Sunday on the way to church so he is still veiy I'eligious. Of course I expected him to be. Anyway he tells me that the gi-ocery business is furnishing him with thi-ee square meals a day. "I also see JOHN ROCAP and BILL KREIG occasionally. Both look prosperous so e\'idently getting married didn't cause Kreig any hard­ship at least. Not long ago he rec­ommended that I take the plunge, but I haven't followed his advice. 
•'SLIM CUSHMAN wrote me a few days ago from Kittanning, Penn­sylvania where he is selling appli­ances for a utility company. Says he is making money for a change. 
"When I go down to Vincennes I usually see RAY ZILIAK who is man­aging a branch of his dad's business there. I think he is still single, but I have a hunch he won't be long. 
"And now for yours truly — A promotion recently made me Chief Clerk to Superintendent for the In­dian Refining Co. A pretty good po­sition, as it puts me in charge of Sales and Operations in the entire state of Kentucky, southern Indiana, and southern Illinois." 
1930 
1930—Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth St., New Kensington. Pa.  don't know when you are going to get started this fall, but I hope 
that you can use these few items that 
I have collected. 
As you know I am back in the Pittsburgh district again. I hated to leave the crowd in New York, as they always treated me well and made me feel as though I belonged there. They certainly do their best to keep up that wonderful spirit of comradeship, which Notre Dame men extend to each other no matter where they meet or whether they are of the same age and class or not. 
Since I have been back I have seen RAY TOTTEN, who has completely recovered from a serious operation which he underwent this spring. Ray took his rest in Mercy hospital where DICK O'TOOLE is now interning, and also, where DR. LEO O'DON­NELL is making great name for him­self as a surgeon. 
JIM DODSON is progressing rap­idly in the advertising department of the Pittsburgh Press; which paper also employs VINCE SWEENEY, who is one of the leading reporters of the city. Vince covers all of the Steel, Coal and Aluminum strikes in this section and he has been very busy for the past few months. Inci­dently, Jim Costin, a very good friend of Notre Dame's, recently left this same paper to take over the position of sports editor for the South Bend News-Times. We are counting on Jim to give us the daily reports on the activities at Cartier Field. 
ED NEBEL and JACK SHEEDY are in the life insurance business. Ed is on the Equitable force, while Jack is with the Reliance. Jack also teaches Life Insurance at Duquesne Univer­sity, but best of all, I just heard that he became a father on August 28, to a future member of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
The "Dukes" are preparing for the fall campaign under the direction of JOE BACH and CHRISTY FLANA­GAN. JOE intends.to put out a team that will make the local fans forget the good work that ELMER LAY­DEN did here. 
JIM O'TOOLE Jr. is keeping in the spotlight in this very turbulent political field. 
JOHN BALFE recently joined the organization of the Luther-Keefer Agency of the Aetna Life Insurance Company as supervisor of their Forty-second Street office in New York City. 
TOM LISTZWAN is coaching and teaching at his old High School up in Proctor, Vermont. Last year TOM'S football team broke even, but his basketball team went through to the finals in the state tournament be­fore losing. 
The latest wedding ews that I hve concerns CHRISTOPHER "BUD" WILHELMY, '29 of Cleveland. BUD married Miss Mary Elizabeth Kane of the Royal Yorke Apartments of Pittsburgh at St. Paul's Cathedral on August 17th. After a trip to Ber­muda they expect to settle in Colum­bus where BUD is employed by the CCC Transportation Company. WID LAWLOE and FRITZ WILSON were at the wedding, but I had to get all of the information from FEITZ as WID'S memory is poor. 
JOHN "BUS" EEDGATE of Bridgeport was in Pittsburgh for a visit, but I did not get a chance to see him. BILL STEITZ reports that he looked fine. 
My brother, TOM is now located at 2800 Wellsley Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
From the way the fellows talk the reunion of the 1930 class is going to break all records. 
Sincerely, 
Bemie Conroy. 

JOE PARKER, according to word carried this way by LEO McIN-TYRE, '28, is selling bonds in New York and living with LARRY CULL­INEY and BERNIE GARBER. 
JACK O'KEEFFE sent with his dues some welcome news about Notre Dame men in the East. JACK is living at 277 William Street, Belle­ville, New Jersey, and is the father of a new daughter, Margaret Lessie, bom June 9. 
RUSSEL SCHEIDLER was or­dained a priest at Notre Dame on June 24 after making his theological studies at St. Mary's Seminary in Baltimore. He is stationed in the Helena, Montana, diocese under Bish­op Hayes. 
PAT MCLAUGHLIN came through early this month with a long and welcome letter in addition to his dues. He said in part: "I shifted jobs last spring—now in the invest­ment game with the above gang (Festus Wade, Jr. & Co., 318 North Eighth Street, St. Louis) and I've found DAVE EEILLY of '30 is here too. FRANCIS ROTH, ex. '29, is one of the old timers here and so 
N.D. has a pretty fair representation with the company. Saw BOB HELL­RUNG a couple of months ago, but I gather from the lack of meetings that there hasn't been much doing clubwise since the St. Louis gang "opened a keg" at New Athens, 111., last June." 
All of which brings up the fact that HELLEUNG is to be married in the Log Chapel on October 20 to Miss Marie Connors, also of St. Louis. The Carnegie Tech game that after­noon is to begin the honeymoon. BOB is division manager (together with EOLLAND GAUPEL, e.x. '15) for Dollahon and DoUahon, claim counse­lors, 306 North Grand Boulevard, St. Louis. 
TOM KENNEALLY, 47 Maple Avenue, Waterbury, Connecticut is looking foreward to the five-year re­
The "tiotTe 'Dame cyilumnus October, 1934 
union nexe June. He says: "All of home address is Green River, Who-us here are looking forward to the ming, but his activities take him all boys making a come-back this Fall. over the state. Not only is he going And I am looking forward to the ahead in the engineering profession, class of '30 making a real come-back but he is also one of the state's star at our five-year re-union next June. Softball players. Says the Torring­
"It might interest you to know that ton (Wyo.) Telegrains "The feature JOHNNY LAW has done a great of the game was a home-run by job at Sing-Sing. He has certainly CARL GAENSSLEN, star first base­done wonders for the inmates by man of the Lions, who parked one making them "football conscious." over center field so far he had to When I was up there to see him, the telephone to to«-n for somebody to whole place was talking over the get it and send it back to the dia­coming season. JOHN is also making mond by special messenger, so the great strides in the executive work game could go on." at the prison and will soon be making JOE EEEDY has deserted the 
ThtB smUing group, mcnthcrs of the Lay Faculty Club and their guests, gathered on May SI in the Faculty Dining Room, to witness the award of trophies in the first anmwl faculty golf tournament. In the front row, left to right (all faculty members unless other­wise noted), arc: Frederic I. Meyers, Wesley C. Bender, Stephen H, Jionay, Rev. Norman Dcprace, C.S.C., who accepted the trophy for Rev. Raymond M. Norris,^ CS.C, winner of the third flight, Herbert E. Jones, assistant business manager of athletics, who accepted the trophy for Business Manager J, Arthur Haley, winner of the second flight. Rev. George L. Holderith, CS.C, winner of the first flight. Rev. John J. Reynolds, CS.C, Stanalcy S. Scs­etcr, Donald C. (ChetJ Grant, assistant football coach. Emit Jacques, Herbert J. Batt. 
Second row: Henry F. Staunton, Raymond V\ Pence, Edward J. Meehan, Robert R. Phclan, 'SS, East Orange, New Jersey, Leo F. Kuntz, Rev. Joseph M. Brannigan, CS.C, James F. Hines, Rev. Regis H. Riter, CS.C Rev. Leo Rj Ward, CS.C Pedro A. de Landero, David L. CampbcU, Rev. Norbert C Hoff, Louis F. Buckley, Earl F. LangwcU. 
Third row: WUlard L. Groom, WHliam J. Coyne, Joseph L. .Apodaea. Norbert A. Engcls, James^ E. Armstrong, alumni secretary, John P. Nicholson, track eoach, Francis E. McMahon, LcClair H. Eells, Andrew J. Boyle, Lawrence H. Baldinger, WUliavi R. Daoley, assistant alumni secretary, Robert B. Riordan, Raymond J. Sehubmcht and Joseph S. Petritz, director of sports publicity. 
the prison world Law-conscious. You newspaper world in Battle Creek, might also like to know that he and Michigan and is ow the editor and Mrs. Law are blessed-eventing-hav-publisher of the NevadaiVeius in ing had a daughter, Suzan, about Nevada, Misouri. His home address five weeks ago." TOM'S letter was is 211 South Ash Street, Nevada. written on August 27. 
e 
1932 
1931 

1931—John E. Boland, 3624 Chestnut St , 1932—Herbert Giorsio. 9005 IBSth St.. HoUis, Fhiladclphia, Pennsylvania. L. I.. New York 
A scout reports that Joe Mammana CHARLIE MILTNER was gradu­is teaching in a high school in Easton ated in law from Michigan last June Pennsylvania. A second Winchell and is now practicing -nith his father flashes the info that Don Sullivan in Cadillac, Michigan. 
parted with his appendix in the re­A note from CAP RIORDAN, the cent past. 
Registrar, conveys the news that Frank Morrison, in checking in his MAURICE REAGAN, Swcgerville, dues, said: "I am teaching at Indus­Pennsylvania, is entering Trinity try, N. Y. and I believe I will like it College Dublin, this fall. 
very much, as I majored in Educa­

Early in the summer CHARLIE tion. I see a few of the boys of '32 POWERS vnote to Professor MAU-occasionally but not very often." RUS from his headquarters with the 
In reporting on some prospective Georgia Forest Service, Reidsville, students Jack Mulhall said that he Georgia. CHARLIE has been sur­had passed the Iowa bar exam in veying and mapping for the Service June and is now associated \\'ith the for the past year. 
firm of Henderson, Hatfield and Wad-

CARL GAENSSLEN is working as den in Sioux City, Iowa. field assistant for the State of Engin­Ernie Hechinger has been moved eering Department in Wyoming. His by the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Com­pany from Peoria to Rochester, New-York. He is living at the Columbus Civic Center. "Across the hall from me," says Ernie, "is Walter (Moon) MuUins, so the two of us are really living N.D. campus life once more." Ernie was president of the Notre Dame Club of Peoria. 
Felix Frank was recently awarded first medal and designated alternate in the nationwide contest for the \\Tiitney Warren Fontainbleau Schol­arship conducted by the Beaux Arts Institute. Felix submitted a "City History Museum." Should the first prize winner not accept, the Notre Dame man will receive a ?oOO schol­arship to the Fontainbleau School of Fine Arts, France. After finishing at Notre Dame in 1932, Felix received his master's degree from the Catholic University in 1933. His home is at 6215-69th Street, Maspeth, New York. 
Howard Miller, 1475 Wagar Ave­nue, Lakewood, Ohio, and Bill Har­rington, Carteret, New Jersey, were among those who wrote to Father Leo R. Ward to acknowledge a philo­sophical book list he had so generous­ly prepared and sent out. Bill is lib­rarian in his home town library. 
Norb Christman has taken over his new duties as football coach in Chris­tian Brothers College, Memphis. He succeeds Emmett Murphy who is now assistant to Ed Krause, athletic di­rector and head football coach at St. Mary's College, Winona, Minn. 
PAUL HALLINAN, according to his recently returned alamni ques­tionnaire, is pursuing his theological course in Our Lady of the Lake Semiary, Cleveland, and expects to be ordained in 1937. 
I have just graduated from St. John's Law School and therefore have been quite a recluse studying for the October bar exam. 
LEO MC LAUGHLIN passed the June bar examination and enjoyed the summer in Italy. WILLIE FITZ­GERALD works in the Chanin build­ing which is right down the block from me. GENE CALHOUN, FRED SNITE and FLO MC CARTHY run the Local Loan Corporation which is located at 55 W. 42nd St. 
Down at Aqueduct race track I met BILL SLATER one day and we man­aged to lose a few dollars. JOHNNIE ROSS' brother also put in an appear­ance at Aqueduct. I continually run into Drew Shiebler at the Country Club's office and yesterday had the pleasure of seeing WILLIE WEIR who is studying for the October bar exam. MYLES MULLEN will take up with his law studies this fall. BILL DARROW is at St. John's also. WILLIE WILLIGAN coached out at Jones Beach this summer and he is also studying law. I understand that GENE CONNELLY was out at Jones Beach one night with Dot Leddy, Te­rese Ryan and JOHN LEDDY but I missed them. 

In view of the fact that I've been 
very busy studying for the bar exam 
I haven't seen many of the boys. I'd 
certainly like to hear from them and 
I hereby promise to be a more dili­
gent secretary after the bar exam is 
over. Herbert Giorgio 
• 

1933 
1933—Donald Wise. Notre Dame. Indiana. 
George Mattingly Spalding is a 
member of the staff of the Louisville 
Courier-Journal, according to the lat­
est campus reports. 
James Gerend, 817 Ninth street, 
Sheyboygan, Wis., was another one of 
those who wrote to thank Father 
Ward for the book list. 
Dear Jim: 
I have received your recent request While I indeed would be very much pleased to give you an account of fine accomplishments, if I had any such to speak of, there is little I can say. Simply, I have been granted an ap­pointment as a graduate assistant here at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, with a scholarship to cover all tuition and research e.x­penses. This will enable me to com­plete all requirements for the degree of Doctor of Science in chemical en­gineering. 
This summer I Jiave completed the work for the Master of Science de­gree, but that degree will not be awarded until December. At the pres­ent time I .am looking forward to the general doctors' examinations which I e.\pect to take during October. 
Much can be said, however, in praise of Professor FRONING and the Department of Chemical Engin­eering at the University of .Notre Dame. Notre Dame enjoys a particu­larly fine reputation at the Institute. The good work of HARRINGTON, BREZINSKI, BLEEG and others be­fore me is well-remembered by mem­bers of the faculty and this serves to help others gain rapid recognition for their work. Notre Dame gradu­ates are able to proceed toward an advanced degree with the very mini­mum of time requirements, while graduates from practically all other schools are invariably required to spend a much longer period of time at Technology in order to attain the same degree. 
BROTHER ALBEUS, who taught me chemistry in high school and who was directly responsible for the send­ing of myself and several other Utica lads to Notre Dame is stationed at St. Joseph Juniorate in Peabody, Mass., nearby. I see him quite fre­quently. 
I am hoping and expecting that a younger brother of mine, who gradu­ated from high school last June, will be able to enter Notre Dame in 1935. 
You will note that my address has been changed. It is now 31 Worth­ington St., Roxbury, Mass. 
Frank Jenny. 

1934 
JOHN KELLEY is teaching this year at Marmion Academy, a prep school conducted by the Benedictines at Aurora, Illinois. He'll find a lot of Notre Dame spirit at Marmion and in the Aurora territory. 
For the cover of the June number 
of the Beaux Arts Bulletin the chapel 
design of WILLIAM NEWBERRY 
was used. 
In making its report the jury was en­thusiastic regarding the excellence of design shown in Newberry's drawing. According to the regulations of the Beaux Arts Institute only a mention may be given a sketch problem but the jury added "Commended," the first time that such a term has been used in this connection. 
The published comment of the jury pointed out the intelligence shown in the design, selection of material and the appropriate character suited for a chapel of fisher folk. 
Questionnaires returned to the Alumni Office by a FEW of the '34 gang reveal that 
JIM KEARNS is a sports wiitet on the Chicago Daily News, a by-line sports writer frequently, according to observers. He is living with BOB GORMAN, '32, at 18 East Ehn Stret. 
BOB DEMER is studying law and playing in orchestras in Honesdale, Pennsylvania. 
ALFRED J. HIEGEL is in the lumber business in Conway, Ark. 
JOHN J. MAKER is a bath house manager and sport writer in New Castle, Pennsylvania. He is writing "The Sport Patrol," a column of about 600 words published daily in the New Castle News. 
ROBERT M. SLACK is assistant manger of a shoe store in Medina, New York. 
EDWARD D. QUINN is a medical student in the College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York City. 
CHARLIE HECKELMANN is working on the Brooklyn Daily Eagle. 
FRANK LINTON is working for his master's degree at Northwestern University. 
LESLIE JANDOLI is an account­ant for the National Oil Products Co., Harrison, New Jersey. 
RALPH ROGERS, M.A. '34, is do­ing social work for the Catholic Big Brothers, Inc., in Los Angeles. Ac­cording to his letter to the Alumni Office he was married about four months ago. Further details were lacking. 
FRANK HONERKAMP is selling lumber in New York City. TOM WALDRON is a reporter for the Trenton (N.J.) Evening Times. 
WILLIAM L. WOLF is studying for his master's degree at Yale and is living at 51 Prospect Avenue, New Haven. 
BILL DUSCH is doing commercial 
' .\thnlling. luxurious cniise on a world-famous ship, visiting a score of fascinating ports in many far-flung coun­iries .. . 83 never-to-be-forgotten days by Round the World President Liner .. . for as little as $810 First Class. 
And here is the best part of all. You may stopover if you like, and as you like, in any or all iif llie ruiinlries of call. (Vbur ticket 
THE 
f IKT CIlif 

Pncessiooi wtnd through Shanghai streets 
allows you two full years.) Visit ashore or make sidetrips . . . then continue on the ne-xt or a later of these liners that sail every week from tlie Pacific Coast, via Hawaii and the Sunshine Route or from Seattle via the Short Route, to the Orient—thence, fort­nightly, on thru the Suez, Round theVorld. 
Ask your travel agent about this and other go-as-you-please President Liner cruises .. . between California and New York (and back, by sea or rail), and round-trips to the Orient. Orsec any of our oflices in Chicago, Cleveland and other principal cities. 
ttmnhip Um nri 
art work in Wheeling, West Virginia. 
Mike AViedl, according to his letter to Doctor Cooney, is busily engaged in building up both the editorial and the advertising side of the Nanticoke News, Nanticoke, Pennsvlvania. JO­SEPH A. BREIG, former Scholastic editor-in-chief, is secretarj' of the News company. 
HARRY ROCKETT and CLYDE LEWIS are attending the Harvard Law School. 
ED MANSFIELD says in a letter filled \\-ith fine suggestions that from late July to early September he held down a temporary job with Marshall Field's southern designing depart­ment. At the time of writing, how­ever—Sept. 14—^he was one of North Carolina's unemployed. Sez Ed : "JOHN J. O'CONNOR, '34's number four man in ranking (I think) is with a Frankfort, Kansas, banking house; BILL O'TOOLE kept busy at a secretarial school this summer and BILL KENNEDY is back for more law from Iowa's waste." Ed's address is 128 South Bridge Street, Leaks-ville, North Carolina. 
RALPH ELSE is in the contract­
The Last Days 
(Contmue?d from Pase 2) 
Mike and HuIIy are unknown. Goat and Jinuny arc both flown And a hea%-y shroud of sadness clothes the 
Bend: And our eyes RTOW sort o' cloudy As we miss the cheery "howdy" Of each voice that we had known for a 
friend. 
I Oh, those days are cone forever, 

, They will come hack never, never, ' Time has rune the curtain dow-n upon the 
^ stajre; All the actors have departed 
•\\TiiIe we wait here broken hearted. Out of step and out of concord with the ase. 
There they so. this generation. See them movinjr with elation, "Would we have the nerve to call them second 
rate? No,—with all their faults and weakness They have fortitude and sleekness. And they^re walking with their daddy's steady 
irait. 
-May be when the years have tried them We may find that we've belied them. That they'll carry in each fist a double shock: That thoUKh steep the Krade, they'll make it, 
'That they'll stand risht up and take it. Till the world knows they are chips of the ^ old block. ­
Are the old days gone forever'' May be not, perhaps there never Was a better crowd of fellows all in all; They are different, hut it may be Just their age, who'd blame a baby 'Cause he happened to be only two feet tall? 
There's the march. As we review it Let us bid the boys go to it. They have pluck and they have power yet 
to win; And as slowly dies each ember Of our 5X)Uth, let us remember That the men who tramp behind us are 
our kin. 
ing business — concrete %vork and 
building—^in Buffalo, New York. 
THOMAS J. HARRINGTON is 
working for the Scranton Contract­
ing Company in Scranton, Pennsyl­
vania. 
CLAY JOHNSON, able student 
and able athlete, has recently won a 
Knights of Columbus scholarship for 
post graduate work in law at the 
Catholi c XJniversit}% Washington, 
D. C. The competition included grad­uates of Catholic law schools through­out the country. Clay had been ad­mitted to the Indiana bar and was practicing with Attorney George Sands in South Bend. 
Some news of what some of the members of the class of 1934 are now doing from BILL MOTSETT: 
ALBERT SALEH, PAUL MAE­TERSTECK, WILLIAM ESCHER, and ROBERT WILLE, are all en­gineers at the Hiram Walker Distill­ery, Peoria. ROBERT AVARD, Tra­velers Ins. Co., Peoria, JOHN DOR-SEY,Peekskin, New York, medicine, at Georgetown University; and WM. 
J. MOTSETT, Bourke Laundry Co., Peoria. 
Touring French Scholars Visit Notre Dame for Day 
A party of five French scholars visited the Notre Dame campus Sep­tember 15, in a tour of the leading Catholic institutions of higher learn­ing throughout the United States. 
The Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president of the university, was host to the delegation in the Administra­tion building, following a tour of the campus. The group, headed by Pro­fessor Joseph Le Blanc, of Loyola University in Chicago, later con­ferred -ivith members of the faculty and discussed the Latin Quarter and the Cite Universitaire of Paris. 
The educators praised American university life, particularly the dor­mitory system at Notre Dame. They maintained that it inspired great im­provements in living conditions of European students during recent years. 
The group included Dr. Gabriel Re­mond, honorary president of the French Federation of Catholic Stu­dents; Dr. Henri Gremont; Dr. Max LeGendre, president of the French Federation of Catholic students; Maxime de Valleuil, doctor of sci­ence; Dr. Oliver de Leau, diplome de L'Ecole des Sciences Politique and Prof. LeBlanc. 
The visitors were entertained dur­ing their stay by the Rev. Phillip Moore, C.S.C, Rev. C. L. Doremus, C.S.C, and Mr. Earl Langwell, pro­fessor of French here. 
Professor Staunton, 71 Is Ordained to Priesthood 
Prof. John A. Staunton, 71, former­ly a teacher of cosmology and meta­physics at Notre Dame, was ordained a priest in Sacred Heart Church, Sep­tember 22. 
Last year. Prof. Staunton left Notre Dame and sailed for Rome to 
REV. JOHN A. STAUNTON 
spend two years studying theology at 
the College of the Beda. Failing 
eyesight, however, compelled him to 
forego these plans and he returned to 
the university. Through a special 
.indult recently granted by Pope Pius 
XI, Rev. Staunton was permitted to 
become a secular priest and to read a 
special Mass for the partially blind. 
The ceremonies Ijegan Tues., Sept. 
18, when Rev. Staunton received the 
tonsure and minor orders. He was 
raised to the order of sub-deacon on 
Wednesday and to that of deacon, 
Friday. The major orders, usually 
granted at set periods during the 
theological year , wer e conferred 
in this case through dispensation be­
cause of the age and infirmity of the 
recipient. 
Holy Orders were bestowed upon the former teacher by the Most Rev. John Francis Noll, D.D., Bishop of the Fort Wayne diocese. 
Father Staunton was converted to Catholicism in 1930. Previously, as a clergyman in the Protestant Episco­pal church, he was recognized for spending twenty years of missionarj' w^ork among the head-hunters of Lu­zon in the Phillippines. 
Holy Cross Order Takes Over Gibault Boys' Home 
The Congregation of Holy Cross took over the active management of the Gibault Home for Boys near Terre Haute, Ind. on September 1. 
The announcement came following a meeting of the board of trustees of the home with Father Burns and his council at Notre Dame. 
Brother Rupert, C.S.C, who has had teaching experience in New Or­leans, Evansville, Ind., and Water­tovfn, Wis., will head the institution. He succeeds the Very Rev. Michael 
J. Gorman, who has been appointed pastor of St. Anthony's parish in In­dianapolis. 

G-E Qampus News 
STONE-THROWING ROIVIEOS 
The engineers of the General Electric Company have been asked to solve some unusual problems, but never before have they had to work against Cupid. This is how it came about: Some of the swains who did their courting in parked cars along certain lighted roads in New England found that the lamps crimped their style. "With simple but destructive logic they decided to extinguish the lamps with stones. Their aim was so good that repairmen of the utility which serviced the lights could hardly keep up ynth. their depredations. Finally, G-E illuminat­ing engineers were called in to design a fixture to foil the stone-lhro^ring Ilomeos. These engineers produced a cast-aluminiun guard, wliich looks very much like a baseball catcher's mask. It protects the lamp, and at the same time helps to concentrate light on the roadwav. 
HUKRY! HUBRY! 

A flood had crippled three important electric motors in the refinery of a large oil company on the island of Aruba, 50 miles north of the coast of Venezuela. The plant had to be shut Aawn until new coils could be installed. Losses caused by the shut­down ran into thousands of dollars a day. An order for the coils and word of the refinery's predicament reached General Electric in Schenectady, N. Y., on a Sunday morning. Work began immediately, and by dint of night sliifts and a great concentra­tion of efforts, the two-and-one-half-week job was completed in three days. The 808-pound sliipment of coils, conveniently packed in small cartons, was flown in a chartered plane from Schenectady to the Newark airport, where it was transferred to an Eastern Air Lines plane bound for jMiami. On Wednesday morning the cartons were transferred to a Fan-American Airways ship at Miami iat the hop across the Caribbean to Kingston, Jamaica. From there, tliey were flown directly to Amba in a specially chartered plane. They arrived Saturday morning, just six days after the order had been received by General Electric. 
J.A.H.Torry, Union College, '11, and G. H. Magn'er, Acadia College, Nova Scotia, '09, of the Inter­national General Electric Company, Inc., made the arrangements for filling the order. 
FAT SPARKS 
The artificial lightning boys have beaten natural 
lightning in one regard, at any rate. Engineers in 
the General Electric high-voltage laboratory have produced discharges of a quarter of a million am­peres, which is greater than the current of any direct lightning stroke yet recorded. This current is dis­charged at a pressure of 150,000 volts. Just as natural lightning, ivith amperage almost as great, destroys that which it strikes, so does the laboratory discharge; and just as natural lightning is accompanied by thunder, the laboratory bolts have their ear-splitting crashes. A copper wire a tenth of an inch in diameter is completely vaporized. A similar piece of iron wre is "exploded," the remain-ins: ends continuing white hot for several seconds. A section of reinforced concrete is broken into bits. The handle of a silver-plated ice cream spoon van­ishes wth a shower of sparks, leaving behind only the bowl discolored by the heat. These engineers were the first to produce 10,000,000­volt artificial Ughtning discharges, and they are con­tinuing their studies through these high-current discharges, in order to find better means of protect­ing electric distribution systems. K. B. McEachron, Ohio Northern, '13, Purdue, '20, M.S., is director of the laboratory, and associated with him in these tests are: W. L. Lloyd, Rennselaer Polytechnic In­stitute, '18; J. L. Thomason, U. of Idaho, '29; G. D. Harding, U. of Arizona, '29; and J. R. Sutherland, Yale, '29. 
96-71DH 

GENERAL m ELECTRIC 
J-o me a ciga­lette is the best smoke. It's a short smoke... and then again it's milder. 
"I notice that you smoke Chesterfields also. I like them veiy mudi." 

1 BAD A BERTH in the ninA sleeper. It was a heavy train and a cold night—snowing—and I thought about the man with Ids hand on the throtde. I admire and respect those men." 
© 1934, LIGGETT & Mrats TOBACCO CO. 








