The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
•— 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
VOL. VII CONTENTS l''OE APEIL, 1929 No. 8 
Local Club Meetings -Frontispiece Some Aspects of Rural Highways, by Harry Kirk, '13 229 President's Page, by Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06_ 233 Nominations for 1929-1930 Officers 234 Editorial 1 237 The Academic Notre Dame ; 238 Athletics 239 Radio for U. N. D. Night 243 
U. N. D. Night! 244 The Alumni 248 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year: the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923. at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1897. All corres­pondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
OF THE 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
EDWARD J. MAURUS, '93 ------ Honorary President DON HAMILTON,'12 ---------- President WILLIAM A. DRAPER, '07 ------- Vice-President JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 -------- Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 -------. -- Treasurer ALFRED C. RYAN, '20 --------- -. Director GEORGE M. MAYPOLE, '03 --------- Director 
M. HARRY MILLER, '10 --------- Director JOHN P. MURPHY, '12 -------(ex officio) Director 
£ocal c^lumni dub Meetings 
CLEVELAND Mondays—year round—luncheon meetings—the Allerton—seventy-five cents. 
NEW YORK CITY Thursdays—Luncheon meetings—Fraternity Club, 22 E. 38th St. 
CHICAGO Thursdays—Luncheon meetings—College Inn, Hotel Sherman 
DETROIT Thursdays—Luncheon meetings—12:30—Frontenac Inn, 42 Monroe Ave. 
PITTSBURGH Tliui'sdays—Lundieon—Hotel Heni-y. 
LOS ANGELES Weekly luncheon—Wednesday, 12:1.5—University Club. 
CINCINNATI First and third Tuesdays of each month—^12:15 noon—Broadway Hotel 
NEW JERSEY Monthly meeting—8 P. M.—First Monday—Newark Athletic Club 
INTER-MOUNTAIN Monthly luncheon—first Tuesday—University Club, Salt Lake City, Utah 
KENTUCKY Generally the second Tuesday of each month—different locations. Call Edward Pfeiffer, 407 Martin Brown Arcade, Louisville 
WABASH VALLEY Four times yearly—January, April, October, December—^Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Indiana.—Call H. R. Kamp, 1207 Wells St. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY Monthly dinner meeting—^no regular date. Call Paul Butler, 708 Sherland Bldg., South Bend 
DES MOINES Monthly meeting—no regular date—call Carleton Beh. 
JOLIET Monthly meeting—First Tuesday—Call Edward King, 301 Ruby St., for details. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA Monthly luncheon—First Tuesday—Clift Hotel, San Francisco. 
FORT WAYNE Monthly dinnei-—no definite date—call John W. Eggeman, president, or Thomas McKiernan, secretary. 
ROCHESTER First and third Wednesdays—12:15—Chamber of Commerce Private Dining Room 



f THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS | 
A magazine which seeks to unify Notre Dame spirit among Notre Dame alumni; to keep alive the friendliness and democracy of the campus when campus days are gone; to acquaint Notre Dame alumni with the development of the University, and the broader devel­opment of the principles of Catholic education; to organize alumni activity so that it may better and in a greater measure attain its ends; to live in print as Notre Dame men live always, "For God, for Country, and for Notre Dame." 
" 

Some Aspects of Rural Highways 
BY HAEEY J. KIRK, '13 
(Former-Director of State HigJnvays in Ohio.) 
Roads a Century Ago: In the early days of the republic, March foui-th was set as the date of the President's inauguration. Four months was the interval considered neces­sary to canvass the vote and permit the President-elect to travel to Washington. At that time practically all the votes to be counted were cast east of the Alleganies, today a mere fringe on our eastern border. One of the most formidable arguments against the formation of a central govern­ment was the almost insurmountable ob­stacle in the way of the representatives of the people being able to meet at a central point %vithin any i-easonable time. 
One could have traveled by highway from Los Angeles to the inaugural of President Hoover in less time and in greater ease and comfort than a Bostonite of other days could have ventured the long journey to see Thomas Jefferson inducted into the same office. He most likely would have left Bos­ton on a sailing ship, for the stage coach, an expensive means of travel, might have been hopelessly stuck in the mud on what today are the boulevards of greater New York or Philadelphia. 
Greatest Highway Development since 1900: And yet as far as highway travel is concerned the great change has come about in the last twenty-five years. 
The horseless carriage, high wheeled, with dash board and whip of Spanish Amer­ican War days, its advent heralded by the loud explosions of the gasoline engine, was the plaything of millionaires, while the magnificent motor car of today is a family necessity. 
The Auto Demanded a Better Road: The 
principal difference between the automobile 
and all other means of highway travel that 
preceded it was the greater speed with 
which it could move from place to place. 
Wherever man's time is valuable, anything 
that economizes time is bound to be in de­
mand. And that is the principal reason 
that eighty percent of all the motor vehicles 
in the world are found in the United States. 
Rubber tired wheels played havoc with road surfaces that filled every need in the days before gasoline began to displace oats as the fuel of highway transportation. It was found that a road might be perfectly satisfactory for a horse and buggy, and at the same time too narrow, too crooked and too rough for this new contraption which caused an epidemic of run-aways among the equine population and frightened timid folks out of their wits. 
Muddy clothes, punctured tires and weary vigils in the solitary company of balky horseless carriages, cried in accents not to be denied for better automobiles and for better roads, particularly for the improve­ment of our rural highways. And some men who began to ponder deeply on these prob­lems gave us better tires and better auto­mobiles, and others became engineers and highway contractors. 
The United States First in Good Roads: The United States renowned for the quan­tity production of her factories has a no less remarkable record in the quantity produc­tion of modem highways. We have in the United States today the most extensive sys­tem of good roads in the world. It may 
THE NOTRE DAJIE ALUMNUS 
surprise some of us to learn that we are 
estimated to have 97 percent of the bitumin­
ous macadam, 94 percent of the bituminous 
concrete and 96 percent of the cement con­
crete highways in existence. 
This article will attempt to answer one or two of those questions about highways that so often come to the mind of the lay­man and which so seldom are answered in terms he can understand, and also to ex­plode one or two of those fallacies about rural highways and rural usage not recog­nized as such in the popular mind. 
How Much Can We Afford to Pay for Roads?: The question is frequently asked, "Why not build all roads of such and such a type? Would it not be cheaper in the end?" A good answer to this question is suggested by a counter question, "Why should not everyone buy the same kind of an automobile? Would it not be cheaper in the end ? It would be just as ridiculous for our road officials to build all roads of one type as for everj- man or eveiy woman to buy the same kind of clothes or all fam­ilies, rich and poor alike, to build the same kind of homes. 
The individual who goes beyond his means to drive a high priced automobile and has no cash left over to pay his grocery bill is considered foolish. It would be just as foolish to spend the public road dollar for high priced pavements on routes with little travel and at the same time compel the motorist to use nan-ow and inadequate pavements on the heavily traveled main routes near our large cities. 
The people should be supplied with the best quality pavements the road dollar will buy. We must i-eniember, however, that the most expensive road of £dl is an impassible road, and the public road funds must be stretched to give service on all parts of the road system in proportion as the people de­sire to use the different routes. 
Let us suppose for illustration that the states should lease out to private corpora­tions all of our public highways, much like franchises are granted to railways,—^that our public utilities commission should fix the rates of toll and standards of service. Let us further suppose competition for the traffic between certain routes, that the only income would be from tolls. 
It is clear that under such circumstances 

companies controlling the main routes near 
our centers of population could afford to 
and would supply a better and wider pave­
ment than could be supplied on the back 
country roads. If five thousand vehicles 
used a certain route every day and paid a 
toll for that usage a better pavement could 
be laid on that route than where only a 
hundred vehicles used a highway each day. 
It is good business for our road oiBcials to pay out the public road dollar in a sim­ilar manner, supplying the best that money can buy where travel is heavy, and cheaper pavement where travel is light. If tolls had to be charged to carry the investment, it would be possible to spend but small sums on many miles located on so called main routes. 
The states are now collecting what amounts to a toll on roads in the form of gasoline and license taxes. 
In deciding the question of how much we can afford to pay for roads, it is logical to say that we can only afford to lay out our road dollar in proportion to the service rendered. To advocate the building of all roads of the same type is a denial of this principle. 
Shall We Build Transcontinental Super-Highways? : A few years ago I attended the annual convention banquet of one of this country's greatest highway associations. It was held in Chicago and among the princi­pal speakers was a man whose name is familiar to every reader as one outstand­ing in his profession. Having had little to do with highways he had a supreme confi­dence in expounding his ideas on highway improvement. We have seen famous in­ventors and successful business men rush into fields of religion and philosophy "where angels fear to tread," and make themselves ridiculous in the eyes of everyone, but their own conceited selves. Such a performance was given at this road banquet. In brief the gentleman advocated the laying out of a right-of-way five hundred feet wide for a highway in a practically straight line across the continent. He contemplated a pavement a hundred feet wide or more the full length of this magnificent boulevard. 
What a beautiful picture can be painted of such a project? A marvelous speedway lined with stately trees and wonderful parkways. 
Waving aside the problem of financing 

THE NOTRE DAJIE ALUMNUS 
such a monumental undertaking let us ex­
amine its feasibility from the standpoint of 
highway traffic. 
It is a popular notion that there are 
great swarms of automobiles traveling long 
distances across the country. What are the 
facts ? Obviously the way to find out would 
be to systematically inquire of passing mo­
torists their origin and destination. This 
very thing has been done over wide areas in 
recent years. Transport surveys conducted 
in co-operation by Federal and State author­
ities in California, Ohio, Pennsylvania and 
other states prove conclusively that high­
ivay trafiic is pi'imarily local traffic, par­
ticularly near our centers of population. In 
1925 at a cost of $150,000 a transport sur­
vey was undertaken in Ohio and informa­
tion was gathered at hundreds of stations 
located all over the state and covering a full 
year's time. 
If the writer were asked to point out the 
most valuable bit of information obtained 
on this survey, he would turn to those fig­
ures which show that 60.4 percent of the 
automobiles obsei-ved traveled less than 30 
miles per trip and approximately 70.0 per­
cent less than 50 miles, also that 71.6 per­
cent of the trucks traveled less than 30 
miles and only 14.0 percent more than 50 
miles per trip. 
Highway traffic is, therefore, primarily a method of local transportation. As indi­cated by the above percentages the volume of traffic in an area is principally produced by the population residing within a radius of 30 miles, less than 30 percent of the traf­fic and less than 40 percent of the passen­ger car traffic being produced outside a 30 mile zone. This means that with vex-y few exceptions when we get away from our large cities, we do not have any really heavy traffic roads. In its practical appli­cation it means that a two lane pavement of twenty foot width will continue for a long time to come to adequately serve on all rural highways except on a very limited mileage. 
These things are very much misunder­stood by the layman, and by many so called authorities on highways for that matter, who advocate the improvement of broad highways the same width across the coun­try entirely oblivious to the fact that most of our traffic is local traffic and that it is largely a function of density of population. 
It is the writer's personal notion that on account of the great saving in time over other means of transporting passengers, air travel will in proportion as it becomes safer and its facilities are developed, be used for trips of over one hundred miles. 
\ 



1f^\1^ 
H
^ ^Pii^^^^^^^H 
fl^^V'"^^

^t....^ "'T^H 

 '^^H 
_^K'*^ 
^^K" ^ ?^*" J^^*^r*^^^^^K 

immK 
ml^^^^BK^K^^^iS^SUi RH'SI^^^B^^^'^.' 
HARRY M. KIRK, '13 

How About the Old Roman Roads?: The old Roman militaiy roads, some of them still intact, are often cited as a reproach to modem road builders. These old high­ways are indeed infallible witnesses to the genius of the Romans as great builders. Their pavements were often made as much as four feet thick using slaves, the captives of the conquering Roman legions. The fact is that if the highway engineers of today followed the methods of construction used on the Appian Way, it would cost us $300,­000 to build a mile of rural highway. The pavement would be only twelve feet wide and the surface would not permit a com­fortable speed of over twenty miles an hour. 
Let some taxation expert figure how long it would take to collect the taxes for im­proving only our main roads with a pave­ment like the Appian Way at $300,000 per mile. It is safe to say that thanks to the 
THE NOTRE DAJIE ALUMNUS 
thought and effort put into the automobile 
and the road for it to use, we today are en­
joying the privileges of the open road that 
but otherwise even our grandchildren might 
never know. 

These things are put down to emphasize that road improvement is something more than designing lasting pavements. It is primarily a problem of financing highways. And here lies the reason you pay a little extra when you pull into the sen'ice sta­tion to fill the hungry gasoline tank. 
Higher Speed Has Demanded Radical Changes in Roads: Fifteen years ago the average speed of automobiles on our rural highways was less than twenty-five miles per hour. The same driver behind the wheel of a nineteen twenty-nine model would step along fifteen miles an hour faster. Furthermore today he would meet on the road or be passed on the road by several times as many motor vehicles. Tliese are two simple facts representing changes in recent years, higher speed and heavier volume of traffic but they are at the bottom of radical changes in road design. 
Fifteen years ago the super-elevation of curves on rural highwaj's was practically unknown. Today we bank our two lane pavements as much as two feet on cui-ves. Fifteen years ago the center of pavements was made as much as six inches higher than the edges. Today we have dropped to as low as one inch, almost flat. Fifteen years ago it was no more hazardous for two au­tos to pass at twenty-five miles an hour on a fourteen foot pavement than it is today 
•withthe speed at forty miles and the pave­ment widened to twenty feet. Fifteen years ago right angle turns were not at all un­usual. Today we cut the corners and ask for a minimum radius of three hundred feet, moving houses and tearing down barns to get it. 
Fifteen years ago we placed a steel lat­tice breast high to keep "dobbin" from jumping out of our steel bridges. Today we have to place a steel channel to prevent fast moving trucks from knocking the bridge in­to the creek. Eoad surfaces which a contrac­tor of fifteen years ago looked upon ^vith pride and regarded "as smooth as a floor," would be rejected today as entirely too rough. 
All this means that any rural highway fifteen years old, yes only ten years old, is just as out of date as an automobile of the same age. 
Shall we condenm the road builders of fif­teen years ago for not making our high­ways \vider and smoother and straighter and stronger? Shall we condemn our manufac­turers for not producing self-starters and balloon tires and one piece fenders and all metal bodies and silent motors fifteen years sooner ? 
Highways are as essential to the motor vehicle as steel rails are to the railroad trains. Nothing in our modem life, particu­larly in these United States, has had a greater effect on the lives of our people than the evolution of the motor vehicle. The development of the twentieth century high­way to make possible the use of this motor vehicle has been just as wonderful, although not quite as evident to the layman. 
It might be remarked in passing that to the motor vehicle and the motor highway, fully as much as to good coaching, good teams and fine college spirit, goes the credit for the greatly increased attendance at football games and the erection of collossal stadiums to accommodate the crowds. 
Motor highway development in our own country is many times farther advanced than in any other part of the world. High­ways and automobiles are complements of each other. The auto created a demand for good roads, and better roads stimulated the demand for autos. So it goes, and the sat­uration point talked of a few years ago is no longer seriously considered. The value of motor and motor vehicle parts produced in our country in 1928 will be over five bil­lion dollars. We will spend on our high­ways a billion and a half this year. This highway transportation business has indeed grown to be a big business. 
ROCKNE COACHING SCHOOL 

Southern Methodist U. has put out pub­licity for the Eockne-Warner Coaching School to be held there from August 19 to August 31. Basketball and track will also be taught under S. M. U. and U. of T. coaches. 
, . . . , 
I


President's ^age 
I T N a recent number of The Catholic Transcript of Hartford, Connecticut, there « I appears so excellent a statement of the needs of such a school as Notre Dame [ that I make no apology for quoting it in extenso at this time, knomng it •will I be of interest to all our readers. "All private colleges and universities," says f this article, "must depend to a large extent upon gifts to meet their expenses, f This is true, not only when they wish to undertake some special work, but also I to fulfil their day by day obligations. There is at present a movement under way I to raise tuition charges to the point where they will more nearly meet the cost « of instruction, but there is little hope for its success. In the first place, the I great state universities which are supported by taxation make little or no charge I to students who are resident in the state, and but nominal charges to those who f come from outside. In the second place, the older private institutions have in I i the course of years accumulated large endowments and so are more nearly able I to make both ends meet than the newer and smaller colleges. Finally, the actual I cost of instruction which, in a private college, amounts to between six and seven I hundred dollars a student is so high that if the colleges were to set their tuition f I fees by it only the wealthy would be able to aiford to educate their sons and i I daughters. This last consideration is particularly important, because it is in I ! opposition to the American theory of democracy, and because it would deprive the | i undergraduates of one of the main benefits of their college course, that is, the ! f mixing with all tjrpes as equals. Accordingly, there is little chance that tuition J I fees will be advanced to any great extent, and it is absolutely impossible for a | I new institution without a great reputation to take the first step. • ! "As a result of the fact that the ordinary income of a college is not sufficient i I to meet all of its expenses, endowments and annual gifts become of great im-I I portance. Moreover, college administrators must do their best to get gifts un-ij I restricted as to purpose. In other words, from the colleges' point of view » I the most welcome gift or bequest is one which does not in any way direct the J I expenditure of the money. For instance, a wealthy banker, who had served in | I a college corporation and died recently, left two million dollars outright to his { « alma mater, which is thus enabled to undertake a new experiment with which the • I donor was not familiar at the time of his death. If he had restricted his gift, I 
either as to principal or income, this experiment would not have been possible. 1| f Frequently, the restriction of a gift actually embarrasses a college and may even i i cost it more money than it brings in .. . . I I "If the recipient is naturally desirous of gifts in connection with which no | I stipulation is made, the donor has an equally natural desire for some say in the J 
• expenditure of his money, even though this is to take place after his death. In j I particular, there is an innate desire in most people to perpetuate their names, ji which they attempt to do by gi^ang buildings or establishing scholarships or I I professorships to be named for them. Frequently, too, people who are making | i gifts have some particular idea either as to educational procedure or as to build-f I ings, which they wish to see carried out, and leave the money to some institution i I on condition that their ideas be fulfilled. There would be, as a rule, no difficulty I i about this if the donors would consult proper authorities when making their gifts j I or drawing their wills. Thei-e is a famous instance of the beneficial results of • I consulting authorities. Many years ago a then unknown lady was sho%vn into the | « office of President Eliot of Harvard. Without preliminaries she asked the ques-| [ tion, 'How much money would it take to endow a great university?' He was ! I naturally somewhat taken aback, and rumor has it that he began to catalogue • ! the particular needs of Harvard at that time. The lady, however, insisted on an I 1 answer to her first question, and President Eliot out of his great knowledge j I gave her a generous estimate of the size of the endowment needed. The result is i I the gi'eatest private university on the Pacific coast. Sometimes, however, people j I in a position to make gifts, large or small, are unwilling to talk over the matter | j mth authorities who are strangers to them, and have no one to whom they ! I may go. Moreover, there is a natural reluctance to go to the administrative ' ! offices of the institution which is to benefit, because of the dislike of the idea I I that a gi'oup of people may be \vishing for one's speedy demise." Ii 
1 CHAELES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C. J 
I 

THE NOTRE DAJIE ALUJINUS 

Association Officers For 1929-1930
 Are—.-* 

(A Report of the Nominating Committees) 
Honorary President MAEK M. FOOTE, A.B. '73, A.M. '7-5, Chicago (choice of both committees.) 
President JOHN W. EGGEMAN, LL.B. '00, Fort Wayne, Ind. AMBROSE O'CONNELL, Ph. B.'07, New York City. Vice-President FRANK J. LONERGAN, LL.B. '04, Portland, Ore. ; JAMES H. DEERY, LL.B. '10,Indianapolis, Ind. Treasurer WALTER DUNCAN, Ph.B. '12, La Salle, 111. (choice of both committees.) 
Director (4-year term) 
T. PAUL McGANNON, LL.B., '07, LL.M. '08, New York City. ALBERT G. FEENY,'12, Indianapolis, Ind. 
(President Don Hamilton becomes a member of the Board of Directors for 1929-1930 ex officio. The Alumni Secretary is appointed by the Board of Directors.) 
The above nominations are of March 30, 1929, as specified in the Constitution of the Association. They will be reprinted in the May issue of the ALUMNUS, along with any additions that may occur under Article VII, Section 3, viz: "Any twenty-five members, not more than ten of whom shall reside in any one county, my, by peti­tion addressed to the Secretary, make other nominations, and provided this is done by filing same with the Secretary not later than April 30." 
The nominating committees were: (a) Ray J. Eichenlaub, '1.5, Columbus, 0., chair­man; Daniel Shouvlin, '14, Springfield, 0.; 
E. C. McHugh, '13, Cincinnati, 0.; and (b) Fi-ank H. Hayes, '14, Chicago, chairman; Joseph Byrne, '15, Newark, N. J.; Joseph 
D. Sinnott, '08, Seattle, Wash. 
THE CANDIDATES 

Mark M. Foote, vice-president of the Association in 1911-1912, the unanimous choice of the Committees for honorary president of the Association, will undoubt­edly find a unanimous welcome in this office from his fellow alumni. One of the oldest living alumni of Notre Dame, Mr. Foote is at the same time one of the yongest. He is a participant in all the worth while ac­tivities of the National -Association and the 
Notre Dame Club of Chicago. He is a faithful and an invaluable link between the 
Notre Dame of today and the Notre Dame of yesterday, and is an inspiration to the 
younger alumni. The honorary presidency for the past two years has been held by Prof. E. J. Maurus, '93, a professor at Notre Dame since '95, known and admired by all Notre Dame alumni. 
The committees have chosen two splendid candidates for the Presidency. 
Hon. John W. Eggeman, a resident of Fort Wajme, and at present president of the Notre Dame Club of Fort Wayne, has been a frequent and welcome visitor at Notre Dame. He has achieved a great deal of success in the legal profession in Fort Wayne, both as an attorney and as a judge. His interest in Notre Dame has been as broad as the acti\'ities of the University. While at Notre Dame, Judge Eggeman was a three-sport athlete, winning three mono­grams in football, four in track, and one in basketball. He was one of the finest centers in the West; he was a shot-putter of ability (the Judge, even then, was sent a valentine, the historical Scholastic relates, titled Baby Elephant,—and the Judge is now a grown 
man.) Judge Eggeman was a vice-presi­dent of the Association in 1913-1914 and again in 1917-1918. 
Ambrose O'Connell, while distance makes him an infrequent visitor at Notre Dame, 
has maintained a contact with his alma mater that should be an example for his fellow alumni. His contacts with New York alumni have been equally exemplary, and he has played a great part in the success of the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York. ]Mr. O'Connell is now in the trust department of the Guaranty Trust Co. While at Notre Dame, he was secretary for three years to Eev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, '90, then president (a liberal education in itself). He was president of the Class of '07, business manager of the Dome of '07, president of the Iowa Club (an Ottumwa boy, strayed from the California trail it seems), and an' active member of the Shakespeare and Dramatic Clubs. In addi­tion to this, Mr. O'Connell did extensive publicity work as correspondent for a num­ber of newspapers. 
Frank J. Lonergan, nominee for vice-president, an attorney in Portland, Ore., was carrying the colors of Polo, 111., while he was at Noti-e Dame. For three years he won his monogi-am as a right half-back on the varsity football team. But during that time he found spare time enough to. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
take an active interest in the academic life, of the campus (contrary to the usual pic­ture of athletes—^you'll notice that a num­ber of monogram men are listed among the men chosen as officers of the Association). He was interested in debate, and was awarded a first honor dii^loma for Corby Hall at the '04 Commencement. Mr. Loner­gan has been an active member of the Notre Dame Club of Portland. 
Hon. James E. Deery, the other vice-presidential nominee, is also an attorney, but in Indianapolis, where he has practiced and served on the bench with much credit to himself and Notre Dame. He has worked with effect for the development of the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis and is one of its most popular members. Judge Deery had much valuable training on the campus in the fine arts of contact and leadership that have marked his professional progress since. He was a varsity debater and one of the leading speakers of the College of Law. He was president of the senior law­yers, varsity cheer leader, and a leading figure in the various banquets and social activities of the campus. 
Walter Duncan, La Salle, 111., is the choice of both committees to retain the office of treasurer. This should meet with general approval. The job is about on the same basis as that of selling blood for transfusion, be­ing the subject for bacteriological expe­riments, etc., and on top of that the incumbent should 
conscientiously take out a magician's li­cense. Warren A. Cartier held the post for sixteen years and should have a suit com­posed entirely of service stripes with Con­gressional Medals for buttons, not to men­tion a pension. Walter has been that rara avis, an able successor. To find two men who are appropriately gifted and at the same time possessed of the proper mental attitude is bordering on the miraculous. The action of the committees evidences their recognition of this situation. 
T. Paul McGannon is a nominee for the directorship, to succeed the late Joseph M. Haley, '99, whose term of four years ends this June. It was for this reason that no successor was named after Mr. Haley's death. Mr. McGannon has been prominent in alumni activities, both in the Association, of which he was a trustee in 1919-1920, and in the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York. Mr. McGannon is a prominent attorney in New York and is active in poli­tics. He is a close personal friend of Mayor Walker and accompanied him to the football banquet at Notre Dame last Fall, when the Mayor made a special trip for that occasion. On the campus Mr. McGannon was most active. He was manager of the football, baseball, and basketball teams, getting the baseball team its first trip East. He played a violin in the orchestra, and was secre­tary-treasurer of the law class. 
Albert G. Feeny, also a nominee for di­rector, is in the furniture business in In­dianapolis. He left Notre Dame without a degree but was elected to the Association in 1925, and has been prominent in alumni activities in Indianapolis. Mr. Feeny is a close personal friend of K. K. Eockne and is a frequent visitor at Notre Dame. He was a teammate of Eockne, winning three monograms in football and three in basket­ball while at Notre Dame. He was captain of the basketball team in 1912-1913. 
These are the candidates—a very able group, juggle them as you will. Ballots will be sent out between now and May 20th. There is little time to have these returned before Commencement, June 2. Begin plan­ning your vote now. When your ballot comes, fill it out promptly and return it. Father Bolger has called the attention of a great many of you to the fact that a duty usually accompanies a right. You not only have the right to vote—you have the duty. While all the nominees are fine, capable alumni, it is reassuring and stimulating to the successful candidates to have a large vote of interested members of the Associa­tion. The coming year is going to bring big things. The officers will need your sup­port from the beginning. 

*——— 


EDITORIAL 
*_. 
UNIVERSAL On the center spread of this 
N. D. NIGHT issue is a forceful enough 
reminder of Universal No­tre Dame Night to make this comment just a little more fuel on the fire. It really shouldn't be necessary any more to do any­thing in the Alumni Office but make the an­nouncement of the date and see that new Clubs join the fireworks. 
Reports indicate that this condition pre­vails to a greater extent this year than ever before. The old line Clubs responded rapidly and readily, and the newer ones were close behind. Don't YOU be the weak link in the chain. Whenever and wherever your club is meeting on the Night of April 22—^that's the time and that's the place for you. 
NOMINATIONS In this issue the nomina­
tions for the officers of the Alumni Association in 1929-30 are an­nounced. The election of officers for the -Association is a matter of real moment. We have passed beyond the era when these offices were honors only. They now require active participation in the affairs of the Association by every man who holds office. 
Ballots will be sent out in accordance 
•\\ith the Constitution. The return of these ballots is a duty that should not rest light­ly upon you. 
Fortunately for the Association, as in the past, the nominating committees seem to have been inspired in their selections. Both groups of nominees are alumni whose loy­alty to Notre Dame and interest in the Association has been proved in many ways. 
COMMENCEMENT Plans for Commence­
ment are already oc­cupying the attention of the University and the Association. Early indications are that all previous records ^vill fall ^vith the 1929 observance of the University's Eighty-Fifth Annual awarding of degrees. 
There will be more Seniors, Two base­
ball games are scheduled, Friday and Sat­urday. Excellent speakers are practically assured. The University Theater is plan­ning a fine production. The musical organ­izations will be much in evidence. The Alum­ni Banquet in the new Dining Halls has be­come a paramount attraction. The Dix Re­unions, with the addition of the '24, '04 and '79 groups, bring back more men this year than ever before, and the outlying precincts pronuse to have them here. 
You might as well get a portable tooth­brush and a celluloid collar now and P-A.CK. May 31 the festivities begin— June 2nd they close. PLAN NOW TO BE HERE. 
FINANCES Records for collection of dues 
have been broken again this 

year. More Clubs exist than ever before. 
The Alumni Office is better organized. More 
correspondence, more activities have been 
the order of the year. There has been gen­
eral progi-ess, ^\^th one fatal exception— 
finances. 
Dues increased, yes. But expenses also 
increased. Progi-ess demands a decided in­
crease. Next year should demand even 
more. Neglect of dues by a great per­
centage of the members is the principal 
factor in creating an annual deficit in the 
Association treasury. 
The Alumni Association itself cannot progz-ess, nor can it be of any assistance to the members, unless it is properly financed. It is an obvious corrollary that the Univer­sity can derive little benefit from an organ­ization that is itself defunct. 
Stimulation of the payment of dues by members of the Clubs and the Classes will help. Advertising for the ALUMNUS will help. In fact the Treasurer and Secretary have reached the point where they would cash checks and no questions asked. 
This is the era of the "Talkie"—and whether we like it or not, money talks. Don't make this your silent year. 
238 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
The Academic Notre Dame 
(Special attention of the Local Cbibs.) 
Notre Dame's Department of Public Ee­
lations has arranged an exhibit of books by 
Notre Dame authors which is arousing fa­
vor'able comment in tlie cities in which it 

is being shown. Appearing at a time when ­
the academic phase of the University is be­
ing much discussed, it is an excellent factor 
in guiding the opinion of a large public that 
other media might very conceivably miss. 
The idea originated with a commercial display plan in Indianapolis. When the books were assembled they formed such a representative exhibit that it was decided to take advantage of the collection to show them elsewhere. Letters were sent to the Local Clubs to assist in arranging displays where they had not already been arranged. The response has been so ready and \\'ide­spread that the Department of Public Rela­tions, under Mr. Franklyn Doan, '29, is hav­ing difiBculty in routing the display to the best advantage. The present program keeps it in the Middle West until the last of April, when it will be shown in Des Moines at the time of the Drake Relays through the efforts of the N. D. Club of Des Moines. From there it will be shipped to New York and then routed westward. 
Books and authors included in the display are: 
Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, "Rime of the Rood and Other Poems," "Cloister and Other Poems" and "Notre Dame Verse" (co-edited by Speer Strahan). 
Rev. P. J. Carroll, C.S.C, "Songs of Creelabeg," "Eound About Home," "Heart Hermitage and Other Poems" and "The Man-God." 
Prof. Charles Phillips, "High In Her Tower," "The New Poland," "The Teacher's Year" and "The Doctor's Wooing." 
Rev. C. C. Miltner, C.S.C, "Elements of Ethics" and "Progressive Ignorance." 
K. K. Rockne, "Coaching" and "The Four Winners." 
Prof. C E. Manion, "American History." 
Prof. R. E. Greene, "Chemisti-y and 
Health." ' Rev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C, "Morals of Newspaper Making." 
Prof. John Cooney, "Hills of Rest." Rev. P. E. Hebert, C.S.C, "Selections From the Latin Fathers." Rev. Thomas Crumley, C.S.C, "Logic: Inductive and Deductive." Prof. Lewis Carey, "Franklin's Economic Views." Father Delaunay, "Tertullian and His Apologetics." Hon. T. E. Howard, "Memoirs" and "A History of Notre Dame." Father Maguire, "Elements of Chem-isti-y." Rev. Michael Quinlan, C.S.C, "Poetic Justice in the Drama." Charles Warren Stoddard, "Preludes," "Poems" and "Exits and Entrances." Rev. Nicholas Stoeffel, C.S.C, "Epitome of the New Testament." 
John L. Heineman, "Two Chapters From the History of Fayette County." and "The Early Days of St. Gabriel's." 
Rev. James Burns, C.S.C, "Catholic Edu­cation." Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, "Priests of Holy Cross." Prof. E. J. Maurus, "Diiferential Cal­culus." Prof. E. G. Mahin, "Quantitative Anal­ysis." 
Rev. John A. Zahm, C.S.C, "Evolution and Dogma," "Sound and Music," "Women in Science," "Great Inspirers," "The Quest of El Dorado," "Down the Amazon," "Up the Orinoco" and "Through South America's Southland." 
J. P. McEvoy, "The Potters" and "Show Girl." 
The ALUMNUS is proud to call the attention of the alumni to this display. There are perhaps schools that could mus­ter larger and more awe-inspiring titles and tomes, but the ALUMNUS doubts if any school whose administrators and faculty members, lay and religious, have had to work and sacrifice during the com­paratively short life of the school can pro­duce a better or more representative col­lection. 

If Notre Dame could acquire the literary and research fellowships and professorships that exist at some of the older institutions, the ALUMNUS is confident that many No­tre Dame writers would soar as high above the common field as those of any other school. 
This list was assembled hurriedly. It is undoubtedly incomplete. If there are alumni authors not represented, the ALUMNUS urges them to submit their books to Mr. Doan for inclusion in this display. 
To lend color to the display, Mr. Doan has included an oil painting by Charles William Heineman, '29, a son of John L. Heineman, and a number of pictures of campus scenes and personalities, and sev­eral identifying Notre Dame banners. 
The display adapts itself very well to a window eight feet high by six or more long and three or more deep. Any Clubs or alumni in cities ^vithout Clubs are urged to consider this display of the academic Notre Dame for their cities. 

Notre Dame — A "Big League" School 
A baseball tradition which may make the University of Noti-e Dame the most import­ant college center of the national pastime within the next few years is rapidly grow­ing up on the campus of the Fighting Irish. Not only ai-e the memories of former stars being preserved here, but Notre Dame var­sity luminaries are being grabbed off every year by big league scouts. 
Four candidates for the varsity and fresh­man teams this year are sons of former big league stars. Ed Connors, an outfielder, is the son of Pat Connors, former Pittsburgh and St. Louis catcher which Bob Walsh, a pitcher, is the son of Big Ed Walsh, the great White Sox pitcher of a decade ago. Big Ed's elder son. Little Ed, is now with the White. Sox. Joe Sullivan, last year's captain, and a senior in law at Notre Dame, and his younger brother, Bill, are sons of Billy Sullivan, a star catcher on the White Sox "hitless wonders" team of 1906. Nor­man Bradley is following in the footsteps of his father for he is seeking the third base job. Bill Bradley was a star with the Cubs and Cleveland Indians 20 years ago. 
Notre Dame varsity stars are holding their o^vn in the big show. "Red" Smith, Harry O'Boyle and Jim Silver of the 1926 team are booked for big jobs this summer. Smith is with the Boston Braves, O'Boyle wth the Boston Red Sox, while Silver is \vith Jersey City in the International league. Young Ed Walsh will be with the White 
LEFT TO RIGHT— ED CONNORS, NORMAN BRADLEY, YOUNG ED WALSH, BOB WALSH, BILL SULLIVAN, JOE SULLIVAN. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Sox again this spring while his 1929 team 
mate, Leo' Schrall, a peppery shortstop, is 
due for a tryout with the Cincinnati Reds. Among the "old-timers" that went from 
Cartier Field (and its predecessor) into the 
Big Time were: American League—Joe Bir­
mingham, Cleveland; Alfred Bergman, 
Cleveland; Bert Daniels, New York; Jean 
Dubuc, Detroit; M. S. Farrell, Boston; N. 
R. Gibson, Boston; Burt Keely, Washington; Albert Kelly, CMcago; William G. Lathrop, Chicago; James E. Morgan, Washington; 
M. R. Powers, Philadelphia; Frank Shaugh­nessy, Washington; James R. Walsh, De­troit. National League—^Adrian C. Anson, one of the pioneers of the sport, Chicago; Roger Bresnahan, Chicago; William I. Bur­ke, Boston; Robert Bescher, Cincinnati; Frank Carmody, Pittsburgh; Harry A. Cur­tis, New York; George Cutshaw, Brooklyn; William J. Granfield, Boston; "Lefty" Inks, Pittsburgh; Joseph F. Kenny, New York; Herbert Kelly, Pittsburgh; Robert E. Lynch, Philadelphia; John J. Mun-ay, New York; Alexander McCarthy, Pittsburgh; Edward McDonough, Philadelphia; William McGill, Chicago; Philip B. O'Neill, Cincinnati; Thomas Quigley, Pittsburgh; Edward Reul­bach, Boston; C.L.U. Clemens, Rufus Wal­dorf and Fred "Cy" Williams, Chicago. Cy has since become one of the leading home-run hitters in the game. 
BASEBAIiL Apr. 1 and 3—^Daniel Baker at Brownwuud, 
Texas. Apr. 3 and 4—Baylor at Waco, Texas. Apr. 5—Southern Methodist at Dallas, Texas. Apr. 6—Texas A. and JL at College Station. 
REGTOAK SEASON Apr. 18—^Wabash at Notre Dame. Apr. 22—Iowa at Xotre Dame. Apr. 24—Western State Normal at Notre Dame. Apr. 2"—lake Forest at Notre Dame. Apr. S9—^Indiana at Notre Dame. Slay 1—Wisconsin at Madison. May 3—^lowa at Iowa City. May 4—Drake at Des Moines. May 10—^MicMsan at East lansing. Slay 11—^Northwestern at Notre Dome. Slay 14—^Bradley at Notre Dame. May IT—Illinois at Urbana. May 18—Coe College at Notre Dame. Slay 20—Osaka-Mainlchi University (Japan) 
afa Notre Dame. Slay 22—Butler at Notre Dame. Slay 24 and 25—^Slinnesota at SDnneapolis. Slay 27 and 28—Marshall at Notre Dame. Slay 31—Wisconsin at Notre Dame. June 1—Slicliigan State at Notre Dame. 
DETROIT CLUB 

The Detroit Club will observe Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner at the Prince Edward Hotel in Windsor (sic). Jim O'Brien is chairman of the com­mittee on ari-angements. Everything points to a big night for the Detroit sang. 
Eighty-one couples enjoyed the dinner dance at Westwood Inn on Easter Monday night. The affair was sponsored by the club in cooperation with the Detroit Club at the University, acting through John 
M. Stackpoale. The Detroit committee was headed by Leo Walsh, assisted by Joe Morrissey and John Fredericks, and they deserve congratulations for the way in which the event was handled. 
The club has to its credit now three issues of Signals, a diminutive publication i-unning from four to six pages which has been established as the organ for Detroit. Signals will be published twice a month trom September to July. The first issue was printed without cost for the club by Edward N. Marcus, of the Acme Letter Service. Subsequent issues have been made self-supporting by advertising. 
One of the features of the second issue was the publication of the entire roster of the club, with addresses of the members. This list totaled 240, in­cluding both old students and graduates, and was a gratifying indication of the way in which the Notre Dame giv>up in Detroit is growing. 
jrembers of the Signals committee are Charles O. Molz, Edward N. Marcus, Paul Dooley, Elbei-t Ma-honey and Tom Slalay. 
Edward Weeks is making arrangements for a week-end for Notre Dame men at Mani-esa, the Jesuit retreat house near Birmingham, Mich. The dates are Sfay 2, 3 and 4. Manresa, located in a beautiful sylvan settling, is one of the most inviting places of its kind in the country. The Rev. William 
E. Cogley, S. J., is the retreat master. Theodore F. SlacManus, Notre Dame alumnus. Knight of St. Gregory and one of the outstanding Catholic leaders of Detroit, has refused to be one of those to sponsor the production of "The Miracle" in Deti-oit. Mr. MacManus stated his objections in a letter to Charles A. Hughes in reply to an invitation 
to a luncheon for Morris Gest. 
An exceiTJt follows: 
"In view of the fact that I consider Morris Gest 

merely a shrewd dramatic charlatan, whose highest 
ability is the knack of translating sacred values into 
box-office results by associating them with sensual 
appeal, I would not care to attend the luncheon or 
allow my name to be used in connection with 'The 
Miracle.' " 
The engagement of Harry F. Kelly, president of 

the club, to Miss Ann V. O'Brien, daughter of Sir. 
and Mrs. Michael O'Brien, of Detroit, has just been 
announced. 
Among the long list of foi-mer football men who 

have found a haven in Detroit is Louis "Red" Sal­
mon, who a quarter of a centui-y ago was the pre­
cui-sor of George Gipp and the Four Horsemen. In 
those days the name of "Red" Salmon struck terror 
on the gridiron. Mr. Salmon is at 2457 W. Grand 
Boulevard, Deti-oit. 
The weekly luncheons at the Frantenac Restaurant are di-awing increasing nvunbers. week by week. The club now has obtained one of the alcoves. 
SUMMER SCHOOL 

Tlie catalog for the eleventh annual sum­mer session of the University has just been issued. The session will open June 25 and continue for six weeks, closing on Wednes­daj"-, August 7. Graduate and undergradu­ate courses in all departments of the College of Arts and Letters will be offered, and in all departments of the College of Science except agriculture and phannacy. A limit­ed number of courses will be offered by the College of Law. A few courses in Engineer­ing and Science of interest to the students in Arts and Science will be offered as electives commanding credit toward the 
A.B. and B.S. degrees. 
The Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, has an­nounced that Dr. P. G. Gleiss, of the Cath­olic University of America, Washington, D. C, and the Reverend Edwin V. O'Hara, of Portland, Oregon, would teach at the sum­mer session of the University. 
Dr. Gleiss, who will teach courses in ad­vanced German, is internationally accepted as a philologist of distinction. He received his education at the Gymnasium Rheine in Germany and at Munster. He has been at the Catholic University of America as a professor of German since 1925. 
Father O'Hara, who is the editor and founder of Catholic Rural Life, one of the pioneer magazines in the field of Catholic sociology, will teach courses in Pastoral Sociology. It is expected that this course of training will prove one of. the most popular on the campus during the summer session. Father O'Hara, who received his early training in the Lanesboro, Minn., public and high schools and at St. Thomas Col­lege, St. Paul, Minn., was ordained at St. Paul Seminary in 1905. He is the president of the Catholic Educational Association of Oi-egon. His contributions to the Catholic World have also been widely read and dis­cussed. 
Dr. Gleiss and Father O'Hara, with Theodore Maynard, internationally famous Catholic poet and professor of English at Georgetown University, Washington, D. C, whose acceptance of an offer to teach in the summer school was announced several weeks ago, are three of the newer faculty members of the Natre Dame summer school. 
Professor Wilhelm Middelschulte of Chi­cago, and the Reverend Gregory Gerrer, O.S.B., of St. Meinrad's Abbey, Indiana, and other professors who have been at the University during past summer schools, will again conduct classes this summer session. 
BREMER-TULLY SOLD 

A story of interest to many alumni ap­peared in the South Bend papers of March 31 as follows (John C. Tully, '11, prominent member of the Alumni Association, is presi­dent of the Bremer-TuIIy company.): 
Announcing the purchase of the entire capital stock of the Bremer-Tully Manu­facturing Co., Chicago, the Brunswick-Balke-Collender Co. will in a short time place on the market a new line of Bruns­wick radio and Brunswick panatrope with radio. 
Respective facilities of the two companies in cabinet and radio production will be so co-ordinated as to insure a product with a stable merchandising background, supported by modern methods and machinery. 
The Brunswick company, manufacturers for 81 years, claims the consolidation is the most important ever effected in the radio and music industry. 
The Bremer-Tully company is well known in the radio industry and holds licenses by Hazeltine, Latur, Radio Corporation of America, Westinghouse Electric, General Electric, and the Meisner company. 
DR. HEATH HONORED 

A Kansas City paper recently carried a comprehensive review of the achievements of Dr. Edwin Ruthven Heath, LL.D. '19. Dr. Heath, nearing his ninetieth birthday, retired and living at 1304 Paseo Place, is one of the gi-eatest explorers of South America, and practically made the rubber industry in Bolivia. 
Dr. Heath, after unbelievable hardship and daring, in 1880 traversed the Beni River in Bolivia, opening a route to the Atlantic ocean for Bolivia's rubber. Bolivia has paid many national honors to Dr. Heath, and though he is no longer able to take part in their activities, he is known and honored by the gi'eat explorers of this country. A river in Bolivia, a tributary of the famous Madre de Dios, was named in his honor. 
242 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
MONOGRAM ABSURDITIES FINE 
One of the outstanding performances in the history of the Absurdities marked the 1929 presentation. Coach Tommy Mills and his athletes had a clever and fast-moving series of skits, and presented theni with a polish that reminded many of the audi­ence of "Sleepy" Crowley, Jim Swift, Dick Lightfoot and the galaxy of stars that made the Absurdities an institution. 
March 20, 21 and 23 were the dates this year. The Editor spotted Judge and Mrs. John W. Eggeman, Danny and Mrs. Hil­gartner, Jim Egan and John Wallace among the capacity audience on the clos­ing night. 
The choruses this year were exceptional­ly good, in a "Grecian Dance," "PicMn' Cotton' 'and the "Parade of the Wooden Soldiers." John "Bull" Poliskey, as Coach BIowofF, giving his team its pep talk be­fore the crucial game of the season, was one of the high lights. Two other skits, "Handing Out Equipment" and "In the Training Eoom" were well done and made it clear that their anonymous author had had more than passing experience with those departments. Several skits of general campus life were also realistic. Tim Moynihan, as the post-prom occupant of an upper deck, was a big hit. 
N. D. POLITICIANS 

No, not a complete list—that would re­quire a separate volume. It might almost double as the Alumni Directory. But the Editor has noted the filing for office of a number of South Bend alumni in the past few weeks. As far as can be discovered at present, the city ticket in May will carry the following candidates for nomination: 
Democrats—^for City Judge: Aloysius W. Hosinski, '12-'15, elected to the Association in '26; Leo L. Cook, '18, and John Louis Herman, '91. 
The city judgeship seems to be a prize. On the Republican side Frank E. Coughlin, '21, and Edmund Luther, '25, have filed for nomination. And over in Mishawaka, Al Doyle, '28, a member of the faculty, has come out for the city judgeship of that city. 
With forty-one Notre Dame laAvyers prac­ticing in South Bend, however, it is not sur­prising. 
FR. SCHUMACHER HONORED 
Eev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C, '99, delivered the baccalaureate sermon to the graduates of the winter quarter of the U. of Minnesota on March 21. 
ROCKNEIN SPOKANE 
A very interesting group of Notre Dame alumni—Dr. Henry B. Luhn, captain of Notre Dame's first football team (1887), 
K. K. Rockne, '14, Director of Athletics and the foremost figure in modern foot­ball, and Maurice "Clipper" Smith, famous guard and one of the best of Notre Dame's younger coaches (Gonzaga)—^met at Dr. Luhn's home on the occasion of Rock's re­cent visit to the Pacific Coast, March 12th to be exact. Dr. Luhn writes of Rock's visit to Spokane: 
"He was met by Maurice "Clipper" Smith and a delegation from Gonzaga which escorted him to the. Desert Hotel where a breakfast was prepared for the party—probably fifty in all. I paid my re­spects to him after breakfast and arranged that he and "Clipper" should dine with me and my family that evening. Mr. Rockne was here in the interest of the Studebaker automobile company. I do not know what he knows about automobiles but I do know that the talk he ga%'e the salesman on or­ganization, team work and pep was 100% and in consequence it is predicted that the business of the company in this territory will increase 150%. 

"After his business engagement was fin­ished the Clipper took him in tow and he gave most interesting and instructive talks to the student body at Gonzaga Univer­sity and the high school boys. During the afternoon he and Clipper engaged in a handball game at the Spokane Athletic Club and Clipper took second money in a truly sportsmanlike manner. 
"That evening Rockne and Clipper ap­peared at my home at the appointed hour and a most enjoyable evening was had by all. Football of course was a lively topic and we appealed to the master on its many phases and learned much from his lucid dis­sertation. Apart from the football phase Rockne entertained us in his own inimitable way. It was a pleasant and real treat to have him with us for an evening." 

Radio For U. N. D. Night 
The Board of Directors of the Associa­tion, and the authorities of the University have discussed the idea of a nation-wide radio progi-am for Universal Notre Dame Night. Because of the great distances be­tween the Clubs; because of the various time that prevails on and between the coast lines; because of the various forms that the Club programs take; and because of the improbability of being able to arrange a chain program without tremendous expense, it has not been deemed advisable to infringe upon the separate Club programs. 
However, so that more of the public, and those unfortunate alumni who can not at­tend a Club gathering, and the wives, children and dates of alumni who are at Club meetings, might know that it is Universal Notre Dame Night, the Alumni Secretary has asked a number of radio stations to fill Monday Night's ether with Notre Dame melodies. 
The following stations have generously responded to this request. (Alumni and friends of the University can repay these stations for their courtesy by writing in their appreciation of the various Notre Dame features.) 
NBC—The National Broadcasting Com­pany has agi-eed to have a male chorus sing one or more of the Notre Dame songs during the Pan-Americana hour, following the Roxy program from 8:30 to 9:00 East­ern time, over the NBC chain. 
ABC—The American Broadcasting Co.— KEX, Portland; KJR, Seattle; KGA, Spo­kane, and KYA, San Francisco,—^has agreed to have an orchestra play some of the Notre Dame melodies on the night of the 22nd. 
WLW—The Crosley station at Cincinnati has written that they will broadcast Notre Dame music if their program of the 22nd pei-mits. 
WGN—Quin Ryan, brother of Joe Ryan, '24, and one of America's foremost an­nouncers, has promised to introduce Notre Dame music on the WGN program about 
10:30 p. m.. Central Standard time, from Chicago. 
KOA—an orchestra and male quartet will sing and play the Notre Dame songs at 9:30 Mountain Standard time, from the 
Denver station. 
WHAS—the Louisville station writes 
that Carl Zoehler's orchestra will broad­
cast Notre Dame music if possible from 8 
to 8:30 Central Standard time. 
WOWO—Earl Gardner's orchestra. Fort 
Wayne, will pi-obably carry the Notre 
Dame features which that station has gen­
erously offered to broadcast between 10 
and 10:30. The progi-am director, Mrs. 
Dorothy Durbin, foiinerly lived in Calu­
met, Michigan, the home of George Gipp. 
KVOO—the studio orchestra of the Tul­
sa station has been suggested as the me­
dium for broadcasting Notre Dame music 
on the Night. 
WNJ—Marjorie McGrath has been as­signed to sing and play Notre Dame music-from the Hotel St. Francis, Newark. 
KDYL—Studio orchestra, vocalists and concert groups have been promised by KDYL in Salt Lake City to cooperate in broadcasting the songs of Notre Dame to the western alumni. 
WLAC—William S. Perry and J. A. Lewis will sing from Nashville at 10 p. m. 
WSPD—The Toledo Blade program from WSPD at 7:30 Eastern time, Monday night will very probably bring the Notre Dame music to the Notre Dame alumni and their friends in Toledo and territory. The broadcast will be from the Commodore Pei-ry Hotel. 
KGIR—Butte, Montana, and its adjacent tex-ritoi-y ^\^ll hear the familiar melodies from KGIR on the night of the 22nd. 
WHBF—in Rock Island, orchestra and vocal renditions of Notre Dames' favorites will come from WHBF bet\veen 9 and 10 
p. m.. Central time. WSBT-^staflf artists and orchestra, un­der the guidance of BILL FUREY, '23, station announcer, will give the home folks the favorites from the South Bend Tribune station. KFI—^the Los Angeles station writes that it is booked solid until 10:00 p. m. but the Secretary has taken the liberty of sending 
on music and asking them to play or sing it at some time during the evening. 
244 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
F 


LNIVECSAL NOTRE D^ 
S
IX years ago this annual universal tribute to your Alma Mater was inaugurated. Five times Notre Dame men have wakened the echoes cheering her name. Each year has found the great and scattered body of her alumni growing larger and more unified. There is every reason to believe that the Sixth Annual Universal Notre Dame Night will break all previous records. 
Following are a list of Notre Dame groups that are observing the Night. If you are witliin traveling radius of any of them, join them. If an unkind fate finds you alone, Notre Dame has taught you how to find enjoyment and profit in solitude. Honor her, as you did on the campus, by dedicating to her whatever activity you are engaged in. • 
AKRON— 
Sec the May ALUJINUS. 
ALBANY, N. Y.— 

Fi-ank X. Disney, Jr., 9D0 Madison Ave., Albany, N. 
y.. is ti-yinjr to locate 
around Albany. The 
yet appiioached by Mr. 
him. 
AREQUIPA, PERU— 

 the Notre Dame men in and  Editor ui'sres all alumni not  Disney to communicate with 
See the May .A.LUMNUS. 
ARKANSAS— 

Notre Dame alumni in Arkansas are going to cele­brate Notre Dame Night at the Hotel Marion. Little Rock, w-tih a banquet, election of officers, and a special program which Father Strassner writes will probably include a speaker from Memphis. Father Strassner's address is Hope, Ark. 
BOSTON— 
See the May ALUMNUS. 
BUFFALO— 
See the May ALUiMNUS.­
CALU^IET REGION— 
See the May ALUMNUS. 
CHICAGO— 

All roads for miles around are going io lead to Chicago, John Costello writes. His committee is working overtime, and surprise progi-ams, record attendance, etc., are assured. The Club expects 400 Notre Dame men to assemble. Thomas C. Donovan. 11 S. La Salle St., is chaii-man of the committee in charge of the entertainment, which consists of a dinner at 6:30 in the Bal Tabarin of the Hotel Sher­man, followed by entertainment. Tom's committee consists of Joseph J. Sullivan, Mark Duncan, Walter Miller, James E. McGuire, George Barry, Bernard Hennes, and Edward Rafter. 
Frank Fitzsimmons, Chicago Club secretarj-, has sent out blanks to be filled in that will be of great value to the Club. The ALUMNUS wants to take this opportunity to urge the alumni to cooperate with 
^ the Club in establishing its records. 
CENTRAL OHIO— 
See the May ALUMNUS. 
CINCINNATI— 
See the May ALUMNUS. 
CLEVELAND— 

Charles Mooney, Jr., writes that Cleveland's Eastej Monday Glee Club Concert under the Club's auspices has been taking all available time and that'U. N. D. Night plans have been delayed till after that event. The concert was held in the new Music Hall of Cleveland's public auditorium, which seats 3,000 per­sons. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY— 

See the May ALUMNUS. « 
DALLAS, TEXAS 
See the May ALUMNUS. 
D-4YT0N— 
See the May ALUMNUS. 
DENVER— 
See the May ALUMNUS. 

DES MOINES— , 
Carleton Beh, president of the Des Moines alumni, is having his hands full. The Club is planning to entertain the Notre Dame representatives at the Drake Relays, April 26-27—there will be about 16 boys from the University. The Club has also ar­ranged a display of the Notre Dame book exhibit, described elsewhere in this issue, for the week-end of the Relays, when thousands of college men and women will throng Des Moines. * 
DETROIT— 

Detroit is the second Local Club to establish its own Club magazine. (Kentucky was the first.) "Signals" ' is the title of the interesting little book which Charley Molz,- '24 Journalist, and secrctarj- of the 
Club, edits. Two editions have been issued. Paul 
Dooley assisted Charley in preparing the numbers. •­
The first issue was printed gratis through the cour-| 
tesy of Edward N. Marcus, '16, an active member 
of the Club. The magazine is to be put on a self-
supporting basis and published twice a month. A 
directory of members appeared in the second issue. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
NieUT! Ai)|^IL 22! 
A dinner-dance, in conjunction with the Detroit ^ students at Notre Dame, was held at the Westwood Inn on Easter Monday. James F. O'Brien is the chairman in charge of 
U. N. D. Night. The magazine carries the follow­ing announcement: "Plans are afoot for the best party the Club ever had. (Ssh! It may be in Wind­sor.) That is the night you must kiss the children early and tell your wife you have an appointment with a wealthy client. You will want to be there whether you come on crutches or roller skates. 
DISTRICT OF COLUAIBIA— See the May ALUMNUS. 
FORT WAYNE— The ALUMNUS iinds out, late but interest:ng. that the Fort Wayne Club enjoyed a banquet on Feb. 7. 
^ with Prof. Clarence "Pat" Manion as the principal speaker, and Very Rev. James Burns, G.S.C.. as a surprise guest and speaker. Something for other Clubs to emulate was a 90 percent attendance, which Tom McKiernan, the secretary, says is impMving. 
Easter Monday the Club and the Fort Wayne stu­dents of the University enjoyed a dance at the An­thony Hotel. Special music, decorations, even blue and gold light bulbs, gave a beautiful and distinctive color to the affair. 
The Club is planning a 100 percent attendance on 
U. N. D. Night, so if you are in the Fort Wayne territory, get in touch with President Eggeman or Secretary McKiernan. 
GRAND RAPIDS— See the May ALUMNUS. * 
GREEN BAY— The Editor had the pleasure several weeks ago of a talk with Robert E. Lynch, president of the Green Bay organization. Mr. Lynch said that he planned 
. the organization of the Notre Dame alumni in the Fox River Valley on a larger scale than at present. The plan sounds fine. Mr. Lynch will of course 
i need lots of cooperation. The ALURINUS suggests 
i that all Notro Dame men outside of Green Bay make it a point to write Mr. Lynch, so that a meeting can be held the 22nd. 
HOUSTON— See the May ALUMNUS. 
INDIANAPOLIS— The Hoosier capital organization is resting secure for the night of the 22nd with Prof, Clarence Manion signed up as the principal speaker. This young, and at the same time prominent lecturer, author and entertainer, is a guarantee for a large evening. If you live in Indianapolis or near it, or are going to be there the 22nd, don't miss. Get in touch with Leroy Keach, president of the Club for details. 
INTER-MOUNTAIN— This far-western organization is making a lot of Notie Dame dents on its large but sparsely settled portion of the map. President Ray Brady and a new Club secretarj-, H. E. Weiss, are keeping things on the jump, in a Club way, and the individuals are keeping N. D. prominent. 
A monthly luncheon, the first Tuesday, at the Uni­versity Club in Salt Lake City, is a strong organiz­ing factor. 
President Brady has some new tricks up his sleeve for U. N. D. Night, but wouldn't break down, so Watch This Space! The celebration will be at the University Club. 
Roger McDonough, '14 and '15, was elected Dis­trict Judge of the Third Judicial District, the youngest man in the county to have held that office, which has made the Club especially proud. Sam Powell, '13-'15, was prosecuting aatomey of Weber County, and President Brady himself has recently resigned as Assistant Prosecuting Attorney of Salt Lake County. This political success is remarkable, in view of the small number of N. D. men, not more than 15, in the State. 
K. K. Rockne stopped in Salt Lake recently and had a visit with President Brady, who was on the Rockne-coached track teams during his years at Notre Dame. Ray says that Rock rates high with the Inter-JIountain coaches and officials. 
JOLIET— Brother Lawrence Joseph, chairman of the U. N. D. Night activities in Joliet, writes that the Club is planning a stag party, with plenty of entertainment and refreshments. 
KANSAS CITY— See the May ALUMNUS. 
KENTUCKY— The Colonels are keeping up the same hot pace under new management. James E. Costello, '19, was elected president at the annual meeting on Feb. 12 (a little slip in relaying). Martin Sullivan, '25, editor of The Kcntuckian, the first Local Club peri­odical, was elected first vice-president, and Fran':C Breslin. also '25, was made second vice-president. Eddie Pfeiffer and Ken Hammond were re-elected secretary and treasurer. Cornie Pfeiffer automatically became a member of the Board. John Buschmeyer, Reedy Brown, William N. Rosier and Ward Hillerich were also elected on the Directors' committee. 
(Contimicd on next page.) 
4r 

& 
THE NOTRE DAJIE ALUMNUS 
U. N. D. Night -.vill be celebrated, but you'll have to get the details from Eddie. 
LOS ANGELES— See the May ALUMNUS. 
1VL4.NILA— See the May ALUMNUS. 
MEMPHIS— See the May ALUJINUS. 
MEXICO CITY— See the May ALUMNUS. 
MILWAUKEE— Dr. J. R. Dundon. president, writes that the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee will enjoy a banquet and general conviviality at the Shorecrest Hotel the Night of the 22nd. 
MONTANA— See the May ALUMNUS. 
NASHVILLE— Nashville will celebrate with a dinner at a local hotel. Nashville has a number of men who were at Notre Dame years ago, Mr. MeiTitt Pilcher being an outstanding example, a student here 52 years ago. Reminiscences of the vastly different Notre Dame of that day occupy the Nashville meetings, contrasted with the newer Notre Dame. 
NEBRASKA— See the May ALUMNUS. 

NEW JERSEY— Eddie Duggan, president, sends in word that Bill Carter is chairman of the' New Jersey Club's com­mitte for the Nisht. A stag dinner, musical pro­gram, etc., is the order of the Night at the Newarit Athletic Club. The Newark A. C. was also the scene of an Easter Formal on April 1 for the students and alumni. Jake Purcell was chairman of the event, which the Club plans to establish as an annual affair. 
NEW ORLEANS— See the May ALXJMNUS. 
CITY OF NTIW YORK— New York is celebrating with a dinner at the Fraternity Club; entertainment, moving pictures, etc. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA-See the May ALUMNUS. 
NORTHERN MICHIGAN— John Lemmer has been active in accumulating the alumni in the northern part of Michigan. He has had replies to his inquiries fi-om N. Bartholomew, Iron Mountain: Lawrence and Gerald Cleary and 
J. K. Stack in Escanaha; Ned Dundon, Iron Mountain; Henry Lauerraan in Menominee; Rob­ert O'Callaghan and Jim Stewart in Norway; and Vic Lemmer in Marenisoo. The ALUMNUS urges any alumni not in this list to write John—1110 Eighth Ave. S., Escanaba. 

OKLAHOMA— See the May ALUMNUS. 
PARIS, FRANCE— Other Local Clubs can find much material for their consideration in the following vei-y interest­ing communication from the present one-man Notre Dame Club of Paris: Dear Mr. Armstrong: I must relieve your anxiety. The Notre Dame Club of Paris is not dead, despite the conclusion which you have probably drawn from my long silence. On the contrary, I assure you, there is no Notre Dame club which is more united or busier and the various members of which keep in closer contact or see so much of each other. The president, secretary, entertainment committee, body corporate, of the Notre Dame Club of Paris are together long hours each day and one and all and all in one are sincerely devoted to the in­terests of the old school. Following, or rather anticipating, the cue given by our esteemed President recently the Club has adopted the slo­gan : "Notre" Dame is something more than a football team," and is constantly hammering away at this idea, trying to drive it into the heads of the many foreign visitors, particularly Americans, with which it comes into contact in Paris. Most young army officers it finds are ready to admit that Notre Dame is "something more than a football team," being a football team, plus a ma­chine, a tornado or something, but visitors fiv)m such benighted centers as Cambridge, Mass., or Jersey (around Princeton), etc. are firmly con­vinced that the place is some sort of a perverted, or modernized monastical establishment, ' where, with all the rigor and success of the early reli­gious orders young Americans are brought up on some sort of a Spartan—like regime which de­velops, instead of invincible defenders of the faith, invincible athletes, particularly football players. Religion they admit may have some­thing to do with this, but that educational results are sought and obtained at Notre Dame, they are inclined to believe, is only secondary, inci­dental and even doubtful. Another slogan which the Notre Dame Club of Paris has adopted is: "Notre Dame is not a cathedral." This slogan is used effectively for that portion of the forty million French people with which the club comes into contact. Need­less to say there is pioneer work to be done here also, for the only Notre Dame the French know about is Our Lady or Notre Dame de Paris and some of the other great Gothic shrines dedicated to Notre Dame. However, the club still hopes that some day it may be able to persuade some French youth to sample the brand of education turned out at the American university. You will understand more readily the size of the tasks implied by these two slogans and the demand on the time and patience of the Notre Dame Club of Paris in propagating them when I explain that at the present time as for some time past the club has had a vei-y restricted membership, the multitudinous duties of the president, secretary, entertainment committee and rank and file being in fact confined to your present correspondent's single person. There was 

a time w^hen the club numbered some eight or ten 
members—counting visiting members of the N. D. 
orchestra—but the situation has changed. 
What the Notre Dame Club of Paris needs 
most of all is not a membership campaign, but 
material on which to draw for new members. 
Until this material is provided the club can hardly 
extend its program appreciably, being also quite 
considerably occupied with making both ends of 
its budget meet while bringing up a young and 
promising future Notre Dame varsity backfield of 
three heavyweights. 
The school must help by encouraging more stu­dents to come abroad to finish or continue their education, or at least send some temporai-y tour­ing members. Better still encourage members of the alumni, after a few years of experience at home to "follow the flag" and seek their fortune in foreign countries. Only in this way can the 

N. D. club of Paris hope to grow and oope with the problem of explaining to Paris what the school really stands for. What in the world is becoming of all the young graduates of the School of Commerce, for instance, or the young en­gineers, scientists, literati, etc.? The Paris club has never had anything but journalists as resident members plus a few musicians and architects as visiting members. 
Furthermore, we must have more propaganda. At the present tmie the library of the Club con­sists of only two books of poetry and one of essays, by O'Donnell, Miltner, etc. Faculty and former students should be producing more books and particularly associating their work, where-ever possible, with the school. How about a No­tre Dame Press, like the Harvard or Columbia press? When are we to see a Notre Dame re­view, of a somewhat broader appeal than the Scholastic? It would look good on the shelves of the American Library of Paris or on the shelves of any other libraiT for that matter. Former students could easily provide a nucleus circulation list and there is surely room for such a publica­tion with a Catholic tone. I am sure there are old students who would be just as interested in helping such projects as in helping to build a stadium or doi-mitory. 
There is probably not a Catholic school in Europe which commands the resources or is so well equipped as Notre Dame or several other of our big Catholic schools in the U. S., but the work some of them are doing for higher education and scholarship is really extraordinary, everything considered. 
The Notre Dame Club of Paris would be in­terested in hearing more about the activities of a gi-aduate school at the university and advanced post-graduate courses, particularly for young Catholic teachers. How is the summer school progressing? What has become of the scholar­ship idea? And the exchange of professors with foreign schools? Could a fund be stalled to provide travelling scholarships, or a year or so of study in some foreign Catholic university for one or two promising graduates, particularly those who would be willing to return to the university as professors afterwards? Since the N. D. 
ALUMNUS wants to grow up I suggest that it keep old students infoi-med a little more about the educational activities of the school, the new courses, new faculty members, their work, their writings, literary, scientific, commercial and other activities of the faculty and alumni, worth-while achievements of the student body in literary or technical work, visiting lecturers and extracts from their lectures, without of course, neglecting information about athletics and personal news of former students. 
I can only close by expressing the fervent hope that the other N. D. clubs will cooperate with the Paris club in making N. D. more famous for other things than it is deservedly for its football team. 
With best wishes to you personally, to Professor Cooney and all my other friends. Sincerely, 
L. P. HARL, 92 Ave. Marigny, Fontenay-sous-Bois. 
PHILADELPHL4— 
The Philadelphia alumni will meet at a dinner in the Adelphia Hotel, according to a card from Vincent McNally, Club secretary. 
PORTLAND, OREGON— 
See the May .A.LUMNUS. 
ROCHESTER, N. Y.— 
Gerry Smith is leading the N. D. Club of Rochester through some fine activities. Two luncheons a month instead of one have been in­augurated, at the Chamber of Commerce, 12:15. The Club took the whole responsibility for a Glee Qub concert and dance when the Rochester K. of 
C.s
 declined. For a young Club of young mem­bers this is unusually worthy of praise. 

U.
 N. D. Night will be celebrated at the Eggleston Hotel, where all the evening meetings of the Club are held. A stag party is. the attraction. From previous affairs, the only logi­cal advice to N. D. men nearby is to be there. 


ROCK RIVER V-4LLEY, (ILL.)— 
See the May ALUMNUS. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (IND.)— 
See the May ALUJINUS. 
ST. LOUIS— 
See the May .ALUMNUS. 
SAN -4NT0NI0— 
Joseph A. Menger sends word that the N. D. men in and near San Antonio (and near in Texas is a broad word) have been summoned for an or­sranization meeting and to discuss plans for U. 
N. D. Night on April 4. The faculty of St. Edward's (a good and goodly group in them­selves) have signified their intentions of joining the organization. 
Father Henry Kemper, who has a little Notre Dame down in Kerrville, has invited the Notre Dame men to celebrate the Night there with hira. When Joe wrote, the meeting had not yet assem­bled to decide these interesting problems. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
SOUTHERN ILLINOIS— See the May ALUMNUS. 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y.— See the May ALUMNUS. 
TIFFIN, 0 — See the May ALUMNUS.' TOLEDO— Unofficial information comes from Toledo that the Club there is under the presidency of Frank Lockard, who succeeds W. T. "Dolly" Gray, who has left Toledo. Ed. Hagerty is still the Secre­tary of the Qub, and the ALUMNUS e.\-pects bo have a report from that organization in the May issue that will have to be printed in red ink to do it justice. TRI-CITIES— See the May ALUMNUS. 
TWIN CITIES— Paul McDermott, president of the St. Paul and Minneapolis contingent, wrties that the Night will be observed up there with the advantage this year of having the Notre Dame administrators of the College of St. Thomas to add an emphatically homelike touch. 
WABASH VALLEY (IND.)— See the May ALUMNUS. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA— 
•ftTiile the Editor was puzzling over the change of address of A\ Freund. former president of the Pittsburgh and neighboring alumni, unofficial word came from Al Diebold that removed all traces of suspense. The Club is carrying on ex­cellently. Weekly luncheons are held Thursdays at the Hotel Heiiry. Rockne and Paul Castnar were guests recently and brought the N. D. in­formation up to date. Elmer Layden conducted a basketball tournament at Duquesne and the Club offered a cup to the team displaying the best sportsmanship, won by St. Joseph's of Oil City. The Club is planning a big U. N. D. Night at the Pittsburgh Field Club. 

WESTERN WASHINGTON— See the May ALXBINUS. 
WO-MEN'S CLUB— The Editor hopes to hear after the 22nd that the members of the Women's Oub in the various Communities have enjoyed some foi-m of observ. ance of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
YOUNGSTOWN, O— Word comes from Youngstown that the Club there is sleeping in true Notre Dame fashion, but that it is not dead. And so the Editor is optimistic enough to suggest that you read the May issue under this heading. 
KANSAS CITY (late)— Program for Kansas City Notre Dame Club U. 
N. D. Night banquet at Missouri Athletic Club: Mr. Conrad Mann, toastmaster: Movies of football games by Louis Finske, manager Publix Theater; Eev. J. J. Gunn address; vaudeville from local theaters; Missouri Athletic Club orchestra. 

r THE ALUMNI 
DE-A.THS 

HUBERT MARTIN HERS-A.M, E. E. '24, died at his home in Dixon, 111., on March 18, after an illness which hegan last Novem­ber but which was not considered danger­ous. The following is the obituary from the Dixon paper: 
Hubert Hersam was born near Grand Mound, Iowa, on December 10, 1902. He was the only son of Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Hersam, 305 West Chamberlin street, this city. Besides his parents he leaves to mourn his loss his three sisters, Mrs. V. F. Under­ine and Mrs. A. V. Kreitzer of Ohio, 111., and Miss Katherine at home, also a host of relatives and friends. 
He attended St. Mary's parochial school in Dixon, was graduated mth highest hon­ors from Dixon high school in 1920, attend­ed Marquette university at Milwaukee one year and finished electrical engineering courses at Notre Dame University in 1924. 
He was most successful in his chosen work and gave every promise of a brilliant fu­ture. For the last two years he has been associated with the Spooner-Merrill Inc., consulting engineers of Chicago, ha-ving his headquarters there, but travelling exten­sively throughout the United States. 
Although of a serious nature he brought much joy to his home folks, his companions and his many friends by his pleasing per­sonality, his talent for music and his seri­ous mannerisms. He was a young man of marked Christian character and high ideals. He came home ill on November 10, and al­though he did not progress as favorably as anticipated, his recovery was expected and his untimely passing was a distinct shock to all. 
Funeral services were conducted from St. Patrick's Catholic church on Wednesday morning at 10 o'clock. Rev. Fr. Flynn of St. Anne's parish was celebi*ant of solemn high mass assisted by Rev. Fr. Weitekamp of Sterling and Rev. Fi-. Warner of Dixon. Rev. Fr. Foley, who acted as master of cere­monies, spoke words of comfort to the be­reaved ones. The pallbearers were Edward Rock, David Murphy, Paul Frye, Edwai-d Mahan, Robert Dixon and John Lahey, all being classmates at Dixon and at Notre Dame. The remains wei*e laid to rest in Oakwood cemetery. 
The ALUMNUS extends sympathy to J. HENRY FANNAN, '24, whose mother died in Rockford, 111., on March 17. 
The ALUMNXIS also extends sympathy to BYRON V. KANALEY, '04, whose business pai-tner and brother-in-law, Fred­erick W. Cooper, a sincere friend of Notre Dame as well, died last month. Mr. Cooper and Mr. Kanaley had been in business to­gether for more than twenty years. Anti­cipating his death, Mr. Cooper had arranged with JOHN B. KANALEY, '09, Byron Kanaley's brother, to take over his interest in the firm under the same name of Cooper, Kanaley & Co. Mr. John Kanaley has conducted a separate first mortgage business in Chicago. An odd coincidence is that the day the merger of the two business­es went into effect was the day on which Mr. Cooper was buried. He had been ill for some time, but his death was not ex­pected. 
BARRET J. ANDERSON, a student at Notre Dame in 1920, died March 12 in Los Angeles at the age of 29. He was already successful in the advertising business there. His death followed an attack of appendi­citis. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. DWIGHT L. FIELD ('26) announce the birth on February 24 of their son, James Robert. The Fields are living at 4433 Harrison, Gary, Ind. 
It was Good Friday for Mr. and Mrs. 

J. N. GELSON ('26). A seven and one-half pound boy arrived Good Friday morn­ing. Doc and Mrs. Gelson are living at 499 Lincoln Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Mr. and Mrs. HUGH C. MITCHELL of Washington, D. C, announce the engage­ment of their daughter, Miss Helen Mai-r 
Mitchell, to Mr. Thomas Neill, the wedding to take place in June. Mr. Neill is the son of HON. CHAS. 
P. NEILL, A.M. '93, LL.D. '08, former in­structor at Notre Dame, and later United States Commissioner of Labor, and also Laetare medalist, 1922. The bride-to-be is the daughter of Hugh C. Mitchell, B.S., 
C.E. '95, who nearly ever since graduation has been prominent in U. S. coast and geodetic work, being the Mitchell the U. S. Congress has a habit of employing to check up on such explorers as the late Admiral Peaiy and Comander Byrd, now on a "fly­ing trip" to the South Pole. 
When the famous Peary-Cook controversy arose Congress refused to accept Peary's claims until given a rigid "once over" by 
H. C, aided by an associate, Mr. Duvall of the Coast Survey Service. Again, when Byrd flew over the top, he was chosen chairman of a committee of three to verify his notes. A number of years ago he lo­cated the place for the Diamond Shoals Lightship, besides which he has done much geodetic work in the West Indies and the Philippine Islands. 
PERSONAL 

(Under the various Reunion Classes the Editor has listed the names of members of the Class who have returned a special Re­union card, saying whether or not they will be back for Commencement this year. The response indicates a record Reunion. If you have not returned your card, do so for the next issue.) 
1880 
Uark Foote, 501 City Hall. Chicazo Secretary. 

COMING Berteling, Dr. J. B., South Bend, Ind. The ALUMNUS did wrong by MARK 
M. FOOTE, '73, (who, as you noticed, is the unanimous choice of the nominating committees for honoi-ai-y president of the Association next year.) The date of Hoynes Night, annual tribute to Col. William J. Hoynes, was announced as March 27,- and Mr. Foote prepared a lovely tribute to the Colonel and sent it down the 26th. It so happened that the ALMNUS was misled on the date and the banquet had been the 22nd. Nevertheless the Colonel had a chance to see the good words he should have heard. 
250 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
1881 
NO REPLIES! 
1882 
NO REPLIES! 
1883 

Prof. Robert 11. Anderson, Stevens Inst, of Tech., Hoboken, N. J., Secretary. COMING Anderson, Robt. M., Hoboken, N. J. Burke, Rev. J. J., Peoria, 111. CAN'T (?) COME! O'Neil, Col. Joseph P., Portland, Ore. The Editor has been hoping to print in the ALUMNUS some of the interesting experiences that have thronged the career of COL. JOSEPH P. O'NEIL, '83, but a recent letter from Col. O'Neil has post­poned tliat pleasure until next year. The Colonel says that he has written two arti­cles and given them to the waste-basket. Which, the Editor is tempted to testify, lost many interesting facts. But you can look forward to at least one treat in next jrear's ALUMNUS. Very Rev. JAMES BURNS, C.S.C, '88, infoi-ms the Editor that he just missed a visit with WILLIAM W. GRAY, '84, on a recent visit to Evansville, where the Congregation conducts a high school. Mr. Gray is president of the Citizens National Bank in Evans^^lle and one of the city's most prominent men. He is a schoolmate of Dr. Berteling, Albert F. Zahm, and a number of other alumni who will remem­ber him well. 
1900 

Francis O'Shaughnessy, 10 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. Secretary. CAN'T (?) COME! Furrv, W. D., Rome, Ga. 
1901 

Joseph J. SuUivan, ICO N. LaSalle St.. Chicago. Secretary. 
NO REPLIES! 

Public records in Indianapolis re­veal an interesting bit of infoi-mation about a prominent alumnus, WILLIAM A. McINERNY. In a dispatch from the Indi­ana capital he is named the "star lobby­ist" from declarations of expenses by or­ganizations lobbying at the recent session of the Hoosier legislature. The Northern Indiana Public Sei-vice Co. paid Mr. Mcln­emy 34500 for the sixtj- days, \\ith an added expense fund of $1500. 
A letter from GEORGE A. McGEE, who is practicing law, McGee & Goss, in Minot, North Dakota, says that he can't make the June reunion this year, but •will be out in 1931, for the thirtieth anniver­sai-y. 
1902 

Peter P. McElligott, 320 "W. 23rd St., New York City, Secretary. COMING Fortin, A. C, Kankakee, 111. Bering, Frank E., South Bend, Ind. Jones, Vitus G., South Bend, Ind. CAN'T (?) COME! Heiser, Rev. L. J., C.S.C, Austin, Texas. O'Shea, Wm. A., Portland, Ore. A card from FRED W. MEYER, who was unclaimed for a while, locates 'him at 231 S. Bunker Hill, Los Angeles, Calif. 
1903 

Francis P. Burlie, 904 Trust Co. Bldg., Milwaulice, Wis., SecretaiY. COMING Carrico, J. L., C.S.C, Notre Dame. O'Malley, Dominic K., C.S.C, Notre Dame. Stephan, R. V., Galena, 111. South Bend papers recently carried news of the organization of the L. A. KOLUPA INC. Drug Stores., This gTOup is com­posed of four stores operated by L. A. Ko­lupa, a member of the Class of '03, and one of the leading druggists of South Bend's west side. AL HOSINSKI, an alumnus, and Bernard J. Bolka, are asso­ciated with Mr. Kolupa in the corporation. 
1904 

Robert Proctor, Monger Bldg., Elkhart, Ind., Secretarj-. COMING Farabaugh, G. A., South Bend, Ind. Griffin, Rev. M. F., Cleveland, Ohio. Jones, Thos. J., Indianapolis, Ind. Kanaley, Byron V., Chicago, 111. McKeever, Francis H., Chicago, 111. Nyere, George L., Seattle, Wash. Proctor, R. E., Elkhart, Ind. Quinlan, John M., Chicago, 111. Stanford, Grattan T., New York City. CAN'T (?) COME! Toner, T. A., Grand Forks, N. D. 
1910 

Rev. II. L. Jloriarty, TVooster, O., Secretary. "Friend James: "Finally we are coming across Avith an 
item for the 1910 group in the Alumni. 1 am in a position now to do a little work on the typewriter and I promise to round up some news for you. 
"GEORGE 'PAT' WALSH, Architecture 1910, incidentally and accidentally the best looking man in his class, has accepted a position in the offices of William Koehl, Euclid Ave., Cleveland, O. For some years Pat has been connected with the John Graham Engineering Co. and has had wide experience in the line of school, church and institutional work. Cleveland­ers in need of such training and experience please take notice.—M. L. MORIARTY." 
The above promising epistle, backed by reports from REV. WILLIAM A. CAREY, C.S.C., who was in Wooster for Easter, has encouraged the Editor and should encourage the members of the Class of '10. Father Moriarty has had his hands full— still has—-with, a new school. 
A card from WILLIAM C. SCHMITT, 380 E. 44th St., Portland, Ore., says that he enjoyed a visit with Rockne and Paul Castner on their recent visit to the Pacific Coast in the interest of Studebaker. 
1914 

Frank H. Hayes, 25 N. Dearborn St. Secretary. WALTER CLEMENTS, A.B. '14, A.M, '15, and LL.B. '16, who served as chairman of the Democratic county speakei-s' bureau during the 1928 presidential campaign, was unanimously elected Democratic city chairman of South Bend at a March meet­ing of the city precinct committeemen. The" nomination was made by J. ELMER PEAK, '12. 
1916 

Timothy P. Galvin, 708 First Trust Bldg., Hammond Ind., Secretary. A letter from BILL BRADBURY shows that Little Egypt (Robinson, 111. and its neighbors) is very much alive. Bill was strong in his approval of Al Smith as the Laetare Medalist and sent the Editor the fine things that R. H. L. said about Al in the Chicago Tribune. He also mentioned having met HERVIE J. RIDGEWAY, Graysville, Ind., a student at N. D. in 1909­10-11. Mr. Ridgeway has extensive fann­ing and blooded cattle interests. Bill had a call recently from FRANK WOODS, for­
mer roommate of CHARLES J. WIL­LIAMS, now Father Charles Williams of Peoria. Frank has a territoiy seUing stocks and bonds and lives in Champaign, Illinois. 
1919 

Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce St., Gary, Ind. Secretary. ARTHUR C. WEINRICH is now asso­ciated wth L. J. Sheridan & Co., 10 S. La-Salle St., Chicago, who are engaged in the promotion, financing and management of Loop ofiice buildings and other properties. 
1920 

Vincent Fagan, Notre Dame Secretary. COMING Balfe, John T., New York City. Conaghan, Paul R., Chicago, 111. Dixon, Sherwood, Dixon, 111. Dorgan, W. E., South Bend, Ind. Farrington, Frank, South Bend, Ind. Leslie, H. L., Waverly, Iowa. McCuUough, Henry M., Davenport, Iowa. O'Shea, Maurice, Chicago, 111. O'Toole, Eugene J., St. Joseph, Mich. Powers, John C, Jr., Cleveland, Ohio. Ryan, A. C, Detroit, Mich. Sidenfaden, Oscar L., Los Angeles, Calif. Tobin, Rev. Thomas J., Portland, Ore. Trant, J. L., Dayton, Ohio. 
CAN'T (?) COME! Loosen, J. Paul, Okarchee, Okla. Sullivan, George L., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
1921 

Alden J. Cusick, 1940 Curtis Ave., Denver, Colo.. Secretary. COMING Bray, Anthony, Deti-oit, Mich. Coyle, James P., Taunton, Mass. Kelley, Leo D., Syi-acuse, N. Y. Miller, Callix E., South Bend, Ind. Sanford, Joseph F., Muskegon, Mich. Schubmehl, R. J., Notre Dame, Ind. Walsh, Clyde A., Campus, HI. Witteried, George C, Chicago, 111. 
CAN'T (?) COME! 

Huxford, James H., Jr., Syracuse, N. Y. 
Oberdorfer, Rev, Benedict, O.S.B., St. Ber­
nard, Ala. 

Schwarz, Michael, Wilson, Kansas. 
Thompson, Jos., Cleveland, Ohio. 
1922 

Frank Blasius, Jr., 24 Main St., Loean, Ohio, Secretary. COMING .4.she, Gerald A., Eochester, N. Y. Blasius, Frank C, Jr., Logan, Ohio. Carmody, James A., Grand Rapids, Mich. Carmodj'-, Stephen E., Carlinville, 111. Dundon, Ned, Iron Mountain, Mich. Dwyer, Wilfred T., London, Ohio. Farley, Joseph H., Chicago, 111. Gafiney, Cyi-il F., New Britain, Conn. • Gonzalez, Rafael J., Chicago, 111. Heneghan, George P., South Bend, Ind. Huguenard, A. H., South Bend, Ind. Lynch, Cletus E., Meriden, Conn. McCaifery, Bernard J., South Bend, Ind. McCarthy, E. J. Richardson, South Bend. Nyhan, Kenneth F., Toledo, Ohio. Pfohl, Paul J., Chicago, 111. Shilts, Walter L., South Bend, Ind. Walsh, Earl F., Des Moines, Iowa. Weber, A. Harold, South Bend, Ind. CAN'T (?) COME! Fischer, George B., C.S.C, Brookland, D. C. Fogarty, Rev. James, C.S.C, Portland, Ore. Huether, John J., Schenectady, N. Y. Mudd, F. T., San Diego, Calif. PfeifFer, Ed. H., Louisville, Ky. Powers, W. H., Cambridge Springs, Pa. Prokop, George E., Youngstown, Ohio. Scott, A. A., Fresno, Calif. Sullivan, Joseph P., Belmont, Mass. FRANK BLASIUS writes that the death of his father last November completely up­set the plans he had made for the develop­ment of the Class of '22, but that affairs from now on promise to permit him to "get back in the harness." The Editor suggests that a little voluntary co-operation from the members of the Class would probably help Frank a lot. 
1923 
John Montague, 1448 Albion St., Chicago, Secretary. 

COMING Barnhart, Henry, Marion, Ohio. Browm, Vincent J., Kenmore, N. Y. Callahan, Nelson J., Cleveland Heights, 0. Casasanta, Jos. J., South Bend, Ind. Culhane, J. Daniel, Chicago, 111. Disney, F. X. Jr., Albany, N. Y. Flannery, Harry W., Fort Wayne, Ind. Flynn, John R., Cleveland, Ohio. Gleason, John W., Cleveland, Ohio. 
Glotzbach, Linus C, New Ulm, Minn. Gould, Edward, Chicago, 111. Gregory, T. G., St. Mary's, Pa. Grinager, "Holly" A., Fergus Falls, Minn. Jacob, Wm. S., Chicago, 111. Kiley, Roger J., Chicago, 111. Lee, Thomas J., Jr., Minneapolis, Minn. Lieb, Thomas J., Notre Dame, Ind. Mclntyre, Walter, South Bend, Ind. Martin, Charles, Detroit, Mich. Miller, Lyle E., Vincennes, Ind. Montague, John M., Chicago, 111. Murch, Raymond M., C.S.C, Notre Dame. Niemiec, John W., South Bend, Ind. Neitzel, Francis, Boise, Idaho. Norton, John C, Chicago, 111. Pfeiffer, C J., Louisville, Ky. Randall, T. Gerald, Flint, Mich. Rauh, Walter I., South Bend, Ind. Rohrbach, J. Melvin, Crown Point, Ind. Shea, W. E., Dayton, Ohio. Strable, Lawrence, Saginaw, Mich. Voss, Wm. L., Jr., Harvey, 111. Walsh, George J., South Bend, Ind. 
CAN'T (?) COME! Cavanaugh, John, C.S.C, Brookland, D. C Desch, A. G., Philadelphia, Pa. Downs, Rev. Dominic, O.S.B., St. Bernard, 
Alabama. Graf, Leo C, Cleveland, Ohio. Kane, M. G., Springfield, Mass. Lauerman, Henry, Menominee, Mich. 
San Antonio, Texas. 
Dear John: 

I've been down here ^vith the Giants for six weeks. Mrs. Wallace is with me. We came down on the boat to New Orleans, took an apartment here and have had a great time of it, what with sojourns in Mexico, flying at Kelly Field and innumerable lunch­eons. I've found time to do three short stories here and have already sold the first one to Red Book. The other two have No­tre Dame background and I hope they sell. 
I'll certainly make every effort to get back for our class reunion. Last year I did not know until a week before that I was com­ing and it may be the same this time, de­pending largely upon my assignments at that time. If I can argue, finagle, bluff, intimidate or coerce the boss I'll be back. 
There is a temptation to sob a little over this; but resisting the temptation to sob over a story has become part of my daily routine. I'll just say this: Last year I went 
back to the reunion, expecting to have a 
very satisfying time. Very few anticipa­
tions will stand such a severe test. I'm al­
ways glad to get home to see my mother, 
I always get a certain calm satisfaction out 
of returning to New York and Christmas 
morning never fails. Other things are 
treacherous in expectation. 
Well, I went back. I put on a sweater as 

I had always done, only a sweater which 
was a gorgeous creation in comparison to 
the old blue one with the elbows out. I 
walked around the grounds, stood around 
the registry room and waited for others to 
come along. I was assigned to a room in 
that palatial Morrissey Hall and welvomed 
by Father Pat Haggei-ty. 
I was always quartered down town, in the main building, Carroll Hall with the preps or some place away from my class, so I had fewer intimates than the boys who remained on the campus most of the time. It was this half dozen or so that I really wanted to see. I came all the way from New York. Mugs like Harry Flannery came from Fort Wayne, for an hour and I missed him; and saps like Vince Engels, who had been on the campus all year, went to the hospital to have his tonsils removed on the day we arrived—and I bawled him out over the telephone. I heard that poor old Pio had had his ears cut off in the Phillipines; that Dacy was on a honeymoon or some­thing; that John Cavanaugh was in the novitiate at Washington. 
But some of the boys were there and I guess all of us were in pretty much the same fix—come back hoping to see a lot of others who couldn't or wouldn't be bothered or who lived too close to Notre Dame and the mob to become excited. So a lot of us casuals became more friendly than we had ever been in college—everybody was pinch-hitting for somebody else. And John Flynn was there. John and I and a couple of other guys bi-oke into Corby Hall at four in the morning and were flattered by some seniors; at four-thirty we were singing on the campus with a couple of young glee­clubbers—John and I were old ones—and at five we drove down town in somebody's Cadillac and had breakfast somewhere or other. 
Very collegiate, yes; veiy pathetic, too, perhaps; but very satisfying, too. Some of us dead, some of us unfortunate, some of us lucky and some of us trying to be seniors again. It wasn't quite the same, of course, and it never will be. But for those few days we tried to make it so and we did achieve something wholesome, hilarious and contented—something you can't quite find anywhere in the work we are doing. 
I'm going to tiy to recapture it at every opportunity until I get as old as Mark Foote, senior, and as baldheaided as Rock. 
There, I suppose I have sobbed after all. But, after all, I wonder if that isn't the big idea of reunions—to come back and sob whether we express it in tears of laughter, restraint, bravura or alcohol. What is the chief relaxation of age but the pursuit of youth? Where can it be found if not at its scene and with its companions? 
Ten years ago, or even five, I would have written that without an epitaph. Now, my sophisticated ego tempts me to add—do­deo-do-do. 
I'll come back if I can, John—^to see who else came back, to see what we can talk about, to forget the racket for awhile, to look at a fellow I went to school ^vith for four years and try to remember his name, to see who has lost his hair, acquired a wife, check up on who has a boy or girl, to see the old teachers and prefects under more pleasant and less embarassing conditions, to drop in at the grotto or the chapel and probably merge every emotion into one glor­ious evening—no doubt the first. 
And to take pictures. I have a pretty fair set of the mob last year which might be valuable for historical purposes. 
I hope to see you in June, Monty, and all the mugs. 
FR.A.NK WALLACE. 

Dear John: Of course the '23 reunion of last year will abide in the memory of all of us pres­ent, and to most of us will be mthout parallel. It would be difiicult to set upon paper the thoughts and reflections issuing from a gathering of so many kindred spirits, which leaves us to dwell solely 
upon the events which combined to make the reunion a gratifying success. 
Can we soon forget the first meeting? Coming onto the campus, for some of us the first time in five years,—^why there's BILL VOSS, fat and happily married, the same old Bill, and when he gi-abs your hand in that big ham of his, you can just feel that handshake tingle way down your backbone and you know that its very strength expresses something that futile words can not offer. That is the hail good fellowship of our campus days, not for­gotten after five, or even ten years,—nor could a lifetime span destroy those rela­tionships. 
Good old EOLWING, tanned by the Arizona sun, KAEL BAKR of Portland, who said "South Bend or Bust"; CHARLIE MARTIN, handsome and very distinguished looking; CY NEFF, the model husband and father; our own EDDIE GOULD, LL.B., has added "F. T. D."; can you imagine BIG DICK NASH a poppa? But you must be there to appreciate it. 
I wonder if DAN LYNCH and JERRY RANDALL will ever realize how much "whoopee" they made in one-eleven Mor­rissey Hall that evening. At the banquet I sat next to the justly famous FRANK WALLACE and I certainly caught up on my sports. Across the table JOHN BYRNE upon the financial situation and the current price of rye in Rochester. JOHNNY GLEASON was master of cheer­ing, ceremonies and CORNIE PFEIFFER had the eye and the ear of the.assem­blage. 
It would fill up the current issue of the ALUMNUS were I to tell all that trans­pired at that gathering, and we'll let the fellows who couldn't attend last year, find out for themselves at the Dix. We won't spoil it for them, John, but we'll hint that our reunions have more of a kick in them than we could have gotten back in '23 if Father Quinlan had given us a three A. M. "per" to go to Tokio, gotten St. Mary's girls for us and the option of cutting the next day's classes. 
And another thought, John,—what of those fellows whom we left hearty and happy in '23, bidding them "Good luck"— we'll see you at the reunion in five years! 
ED LENNON, PAT O'CONNELL, FRANK 
KELLY, and the rest,—we had only a 
memory of them in 1928; will June, 1929, 
have any more included in our prayers? 
The percentage of our loss has been 
small heretofore, but %vith the passing 
years, it gains by leaps and bounds—in 
time we will hardly be able to muster a 
dozen of our men for a reunion. We should 
try to make it this year—-we may never 
have another chance. 
So far it has been easy for me to at­tend each commencement, and I glory in it. Because it is easy for South Bend, Chicago and vicinity to attend is one reason why this district should total 100 per cent attendance. The boys from afar, we can not demand they come, but we certainly extend them a hearty welcome. 
This year, John, I'll take it upon myself to round up all the gang in South Bend and personally conduct each and every one out to the campus on the day of the reunion. I'll get JOE NYIKOS to procure summons' for them all so' there will be no excuses. Yours, 
ED KREIMER. 

My dear John: I know, John, that your efforts coupled with the splendid loyalty of the boys ot '23 will make the first Dix reunion as suc­cessful as was our five year reunion last year. Our boys turned out in far greater numbers than the fellows in the other re­union classes and were surely repaid by the compensating thrill of reviving old 
friendships with the '23 Class, and with a greater and more wonderful Notre Dame. It seems to me that there is an implied duty to return to our reunions. Were there any of us who were not keenly dis­appointed by the warranted or unwar­ranted absence of those whom over a four year period we had come to respect and admire? What a pleasing addition to the party it would have been to have CLIFF WARD, HAYNES, JEF F POWERS, NEITZEL, STEPHAN, and a host of 
others with us in '28. 
Too, where were those friends of our early years at Notre Dame?—^MURRAY POWERS,, DOC WEBER, TED McDON-ALD, JIM WELCH, and BROWN, Avith the rest of his Kentucky contingent. 
The aforementioned would have found in JOHN FLYNN, BYRNE, GOULD, CHARLIE MARTIN, FRANK WALLACE, ARNOLD, FLANNERY, PROFESSOR CONLEY, and others of the gentry, ele­gant hosts. 
John, you can count on me absolutely to help you to the limit in routing out the Skidoo Class. Those who were back last year A\'ill be back again from pleasant memories of the affair. Let us concentrate on those who weren't back and as yet do not know what they missed. 
BARNEY BARNHART. 

Dear John: 
In all probability I will return to the Dix reunion in June and I hope to be able to bring CHARLIE MARTIN with me. I saw him in Detroit a couple of weeks ago and we practically decided to be among those present. 
I am living with ED CUDDIHY, '25, a brother of JERRY CUDDIHY of our class and he is anxious to go back for Com­mencement since he has not been back since he finished. Now we will have to get in touch with LARRY STRABLE and make the delegation complete. 
-JERRY RANDALL. 

Dear John: 
I was disappointed to learn from JOHN COCHRANE that I missed meeting you, and now it is evident why you haven't long gray whiskers and a cane. It's the per­sonal contact, a tonic that money can not buy. Of course we are not all so fortunate as yourself in having an opportunity to travel around the country, so I want to say to those who missed last year's re­union that if they want to "live to be a million," make ready to meet the gang at Notre Dame, May 31st. 
JOHN C. just dropped in with some dope for a Notre Dame meeting tonight. Look out for 1931. He sends his regards. In the meantime, I am extending my best personal wishes to yourself and the class. 'Til June, 
—EM TOTH. My dear John: By reading in The ALUMNUS that we meet again in June, I have solved Mr. 
Dix's "reunion puzzle," and I guess that you and I and the rest of us who were back last June can well appreciate the good "breake" we are getting in having a "double-header" reunion. 
It's difficult to realize John, that this coming June will mark the sixth proverbial milepost since our class left Notre Dame, and these reunions, as ED RAUB used to say are "THE THING." I still get "goose pimples" when I think of the thrill I got in meeting the boys who were back last June—and that Friday nite party in Morrissey Hall. I heard that there was a dance going on that night too. Don't you recall some one coming in and telling us that? Or was it that BILL VOSS and ED SHEA were going to do a dance?—I for­get now. At any rate, that was a nite-
Give my regards to Mrs. Montague, lit­tle Mary and to all the boys when you see them and put me down in your book as a sure reunioner next June. As ever, 
—JOHN GLEASON. 

Dear John: 
Just a note in which the hope is ex­pressed that you will be even more success­ful in having members of the '23 class re­turn to school this year, than you were last. 
Our class was well represented in 1928, but the point that was amazing to me, was that so many fellows who are near, in num­ber of miles, to Notre Dame, were not present. ROGER KILEY and I are going to try to bring back some boys who live a great distance from school. Two exam­ples, DUKE HODLER and GUS DESCH. 
Going back to school at Commencement time is the nearest thing to being in school again, that I have encountered, and being in school is about the finest four years I can think of. Very truly youx's, 
—ED SHEA. 

Dear John: 
I'm certainly glad to feel that I'm go­ing back to coach at N. D. and to feel they want me back. I hope to be of aid to "Rock" and the team and that the years to come will biing the usual success that Notre Dame has enjoyed. 
As for the June reunion of the '23 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Class I certainly hope to see a good num­
ber of the boys back. 
I have lost track of most of the crowd 
and long for a reunion of the Corby Sub­
way gang. Just to talk over the days 
when the rats and ghosts roamed the halls 
and to eat ice cream again from a five-
gallon can stolen from Ole Clark. S'll 4 
now. 
—TOM LIEB. 
My dear John: 
Just the other day I was talking to TOM LIEB and he asked me how many men of '23 were still around Notre Dame. Besides Tom, who is out eveiy day with the football men, there is JOE CASASAN­TA whose orchestra and glee club have recently made a few more Brunswick Records. FATHER LEO R. WARD, C.S.C., is teaching philosophy and is a member of the Ave Maria staff. He and FATHER PRANK CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, have been at Notre Dame since last June. Father Cavanaugh received his Ph.D. de­gree from Catholic University a year ago in sociology. His brother JOHN is now finishing his second year of theology at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C. 
FATHER THOMAS BRENNAN, C.S.C, was ordained in Rome, Holy Saturday morning. He will return to the United States next July after receiving his S.T.D. degree at the Gregorian University. He received his Ph.D. degi-ee there four years ago. 
Last Thanksgiving I spent the day with FATHER JOHN E. DUFFY in Fostoria, Ohio. He was ordained last June and is assistant there. 
FATHER BRANNIGAN, C.S.C. and FATHER WITUCKI, C.S.C, are assistants in South Bend parishes, and FATHER JOSEPH MCALLISTER, C.S.C, is a mem­ber of the teaching staff at Holy Cross Seminary. 
I hope that the '23 men turn out again this year as they did last June. It was a real treat to see so many back for the re­union. The long distance records of ROL­WING and KARL BARR ought to serve as an inspiring example to those who were unable to come last June. I think MER­LIN is located in Indianapolis now. 
That's all for now, John. If I hear about anyone else, I'll drop you a line. Stop and see me when you come this way again. Freshman Hall—second floor—214. 
—RAYMOND M. MURCH, C.S.C. 
Dear John: 
It goes without saying that I am sorry I shall not be able to be at the Dix Re­union. 
So many faces come into mind; so many questions to ask different fellows; so many things to talk over'—I couldn't begin to tell you all my reasons for wanting to be there. Some things I should like to check up on. For instance—One fellow you know very well—and I, planned once on going together into the haberdashery business. What a lot of talking and "law^ng" he and I could do! 
Then there was a little group of six or so who—realizing how N. D. cronies o± other years had promised and failed to come back—pledged themselves at our gi-aduation to be at Notre Dame at all costs on a certain June following—in 1925, I think. That June has long since come and gone and the meeting still is but a remembered dream to all of us. I hope those who can, in that group, will turn up together in June this year. And there are a lot of other reasons I have, but I haven't your pei-mission to recite that litany. 
Well, John, life here at Holy Cross grows more fascinating every day. The­ological studies—^wliich I once thought "dull, stale and unprofitable"—are in real­ity altogether interesting. Besides, Washr ington has charms all its own. 
To make life sparkle, every now and then some old friend drops in to see us. PAUL CASTNER, for instance, a few weeks ago, with "Rock," swooped in on Washington incidentally to make a real holiday for me, but chiefly to do some very heavy work for Studebaker. The Notre Dame Club of Washington, with DOCTOR FLYNN ably commanding, gave "Rock" a luncheon, with many honorables present. It was gratifying to see how completely and adroitly "Rock" satisfied the notables. 
Please give my regards to all the boys you see in June. As I run over our Class and imagine how anxious this fellow and that Mill be to see the crowd, I almost conclude that the only missing members will be, like myself, the embryonic monks. Anyway, here's wishing a big crowd, a great time for the meeting of '23 in June. Your sincere friend, 

-^OH N CAVANAUGH, C.S.C. 

P. S. Has any memento ever been made of PAT O'CONNELL? You won't forget him in June. 
Dear John: 
About this time of the year our thoughts tui-n naturally to Notre Dame Night, Com­mencement time and reunion. 
Last year was the first time I attended our sectional Notre Dame Night and last year was also my first trip back to Notre Dame since '23. Both occasions made a deep impression on me. I resolved to "make" every Notre Dame Night in the future and I hope to make every five-year reunion at Notre Dame. 
There's a queer paradoxical twist to a Class reunion. Personally I experienced the greatest pleasure and at the same time a considerable allotment of poignant sad­ness. There were so many classmates that were not there, classmates who live only an hour or so away, that one could not help but feel that they had already "grown away" from the place where they had spent the best years of life. On the other hand, there were loyal fellows of '23 who made the reunion a grand success. I know that had there been only half a dozen present I would have considered the reunion successful—and to think that in a few short years there will be but a few of us able to get together. The point I'm making is, we all should attend whenever possible. 
If I lived within 300 miles of Notre Dame I'd be vnth. you again on the night you officially gather to reminisce over '23 days, and though I'll not be there in the flesh this year I'll guarantee that my thoughts Avill be some 2500 miles out of the flesh on reunion night. 
With you still wearing the Secretarial toga of '23 I know that this year's get-together will be just as successful as that of last year. 
—KARL J. BARR. 

Dear John: 
Just a word about the coming "ROUND­UP" in June—the Dix Re-union—and what it should mean to the fellows who failed to return last year. I for one had one won­derful time—^from the time I stepped oS the old Hill Street Car until BILL VOSS drove me to the train station. All of the '23 men who returned last year no doubt bear the same opinion of the class re-union —while this year the newly adopted Dix System affords even greater possibilities— and a lai-ger re-union of the men who attended Notre Dame during the years of '20, '21, '22, '23, and '24. 
Let's stai't off with a One Hundred Per­cent return from Chicago of the '23 men. 
Last year we found the following among the missing: JOHN STEPHANS, LOUIE DE SMET, EDWARD KELLY, GEORGE O'GRADY, STAN BRADBURY, MAUR­ICE DACY, GEORGE DEVER, JIM YOUNG, JEROME BLIEVERNICHT, JAMES BELL, TONY GORMAN, GENE HINES, JOHN HENAUGHAN, BRUCE HOLMBERG, JOE TROMAN, STANLEY JACOB, ROGE KILEY, DAN REGAN and PHIL SWANSON. 
KARL BARR traveled from Salem, Ore­gon, last year—let's get the above named to travel the eighty some odd miles for a bigger and better '23 re-union. 
Twenty-three men from other parts of the country will be there to make this re­union one we vnll never forget. Let's Go. 
Yours very truly, JOHN C. NORTON. 
1924 

James P. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave., New York City, Secretary. COMING Boehm, Al M., Buffalo, N. Y. Brady, RajTnond R., Salt Lake City, Utah. Casey, Edward B., Chicago, 111. Cooke, Thomas Edward, Chicago, 111. Corbett, James W., Kokomo, Ind. Crook, Wm. J., Pipestone, Minn. Daniel, Bro., C.S.C, Evansville, Ind. ' DeBarry, Charles O., New York City. DeGurse, E. Newell, Port Huron, Mich. Donovan, Thomas C., Chicago, 111. Dufficy, Francis J., New York City. Egan, James V., Gary, Ind. Faiver, K. E., Cicero, 111. Feltes, Norman N., Chicago, 111. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Fogarty, Eugene M., Indianapolis, Ind. 
Fannan, J. Henry, Rockford, HI. 
Glasscott, Robert, Michigan City, Ind. 
Hayes, James F., New York City. Heringer, Leo C, Davenport, Iowa. Hodgson, Thomas, Mankato, Minn. Hoyer, Ray, South Bend, Ind. Huether, Edward J., Sharon, Pa. . 
Gordon, Thomas E., South Bend, Ind. Johnston, J. Farrell, Dayton, Ohio. Joos, Clarence T., Lancaster, Ohio. Kohin, Ray, Chicago, 111. Kreutzer, M. G., San Francisco, Calif. Lautermilch, Paul A., Tiffin, Ohio. Londo, Harold L., Green Bay, Wis. 
Maher, Wm. R., Chicago, 111. Meehan, James R., New York City. Miller, E. Brown, South Bend, Ind. Petrick, Joseph, Minneapolis, Minn. Piser, Benjamin, Chicago, 111. Rink, Robert M., Indianapolis, Ind. Riordan, Robert B., Washington, D. C. Ryan, Joseph C, Chicago, 111. Smith, James I., Jr., Detroit, Midi. Tilbui-y, Leo Van, Mishawaka, Ind. Uebbing, John, Buffalo, N. Y. Walsh, Thomas J., Chicago, 111. 
CAN'T (?) COME! Bailey, William D., Wilmington, Del. Faherty, R. E., Birmingham, Ala. Mayer, Rev. Clarence, O.S.B., Corbin, Ky. 
The campus received a visit from RAY KOHIN and his wife on March 24, but the Secretary missed the opportunity to meet them. 
An Associated Press dispatch last month carried word that EUGENE OBERST, line coach in football and assistant physical director at Depauw University, had signed up as head football coach at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va., under a two-year contract. He will take up his duties early in the summer. 
Prof. J. A. CAPARO, '08, informs the ALUMNUS that EDWARD S. SULLIVAN has been given a diamond ring by the Auto­matic Electric Co. after leaving the employ­ment of the Company, as a recognition of the suggestions he made in their plant dur­ing the year. Mr. Sullivan is at present chairman of the executive committee of the Engineers' Club and is connected with the Mountain States Tel. and Tel. Co. His ad­dress is 1529 Penn St., Denver. 
1925 

John W. Scallan, 703 Pullman Bids., 79 W. Adanu St., Chicago, Secretary. 
The Editor has resorted to radical means to ensnare Scallan, of which moi-e anon. The Class of 1925 wnll Reune in 1930. 
1926 
Jerry Hayes, 3117 •Washington Blvd., Chicago, m.. Secretary. 
Apparently the School of Medicine at N. 

U. has not yet given Hayes-his sulphur and molasses. 
1927 

Edmund De Clercq, 7212 Circle Ave., Forest Park, III. Secretary. 
JOE BOLAND, who has been at Santa Clara vnth ADAM WALSH, '25, for the past two seasons, has been appointed foot­ball coach of the College of St. Thomas, and is working with his new charges there now. Joe was an excellent student, a wonderful tackle, and one of the most popular athletes of recent years. He is in familiar territory. It was at Minnesota that his leg was broken in the first play of the game in 1926. Coach Rockne will assist Joe •\%ath spring training at St. Thomas after it has closed at N. D. 
STEVE RONAY, who is teaching at No­tre Dame, has signed up as a pitcher with the South Bend Indians for the coming sea­son. The South Bend team has also signed Stan Coveleskie, famous Polish Big League star, and hopes to step into baseball's front ranks this year. 
A card from W. P. McKENNA says that he is working for the Board of Education in the Detroit Public Schools, doing Boy Scout work. Five of the Boy Guidance men are working in Detroit, and often get to­gether and talk over N. D., looking forward to getting back for reunions, etc. 
Another N. D. man of '27, NED FEN­LON, located himself at 3265 Boston Blvd., Detroit, recently. He is in automobile sales, and was impressed by the large Notre Dame representation in Detroit's big in­dustry. 
A letter came in recently from JOHN BUTLEE. He says that JIM JONES, of Badin Hall, the Dome, and student man­ager, expects to settle in Cleveland soon. DON and JERRY MILLER are absorbing part of Ray's private law practice while he 
"H-* 
Wv-rtjl 

SKI ^ llljjjljl^j^rx'j 
Iplfi 
m 
|.-t^?_;| 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^H 
Ry^K^ 

^^^^^iMJ^^il 
Hpfli 
^^K 

i ^H 
1 ^^^^P'-F-^^H ^fe ^^B 
1 
• ^Trg*?;. v^':r>^'^•^,.•^• i'ViV;^-^«;;..ij':-».*^ 

^^^^^H 
^^^^^^^^^«JH**'?*Sfe«^^'-;^^.r,V--? •-•s»n- "?-f^ ^? 
teks!^jS^*«!S'.#»ff*S<a^!iBt<a*iSKiS-«
HEBiS 

Interior of Chapel, University of Chicago. Bertram Q. Qoodhue Associates, Architects. The exterior of this magnificent new building is cdso of Indiana Limestone. 
Beauty and Permanence 
Make this Natural Stone Ideal for Interior and Exterior Use 
T
HERE is no other stone so well suited for sculptured detail and elaborately carved interior work, as well as for exteriors, as Indiana Limestone. This handsome, light-colored natural stone has become nationally famous as a building material. 
Modern production methods now used in the stone industry bring Indiana Limestone within the reach of any institution's build' ing appropriation. There is really no need of your considering any less desirable material on account of expense. 
The best way to prove this to your own satisfaction is to get an estimate on your new building's cost if constructed of Indiana Limestone. We will gladly giveyouthisinfor­mation without obligating you in any way. Simply put us in touch with your architect. 
Write for our handsomely illustrated booklet showing examples of fine college buildings. We also have a booklet on resi' dences that will interest any one about to build. Address your communication to Dept. 823, Service Bureau, Bedford, Indiana. 
INDIANA LIMESTONE COMPANY 
Qeneral Offices: Bedford, Indiana Executive Offices: Tribune Tower, Chicago 
Name Address 
260 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
-"* Fordham Law. He says that his classmates including RUS EILEY, TONY CERES, 
ALLERTON 
Club Residences 
Headquarters for 
NOTRE DAME MEN 
in 
New York -- Chicago Cleveland 
I I 
I WEEKLY RATES TRANSIENT RATES | 1 §12.00 to S22.00 §2.50 to 83.50 | 
EXECUTIVE OFFICE: 285 Madison .Ave., New York 
1 
lj»B—M^—W 
is acting as prosecutor. JACK CURTIS is nicely fixed with the Judsen Freight For­warding Co. at Detroit. PAUL BRADY, BERNIE ZIPPERER and CHUCK MOON­EY are with Johnny at the Western Re­ssi-ve University Law School. Paul, by the way, is one of the star annoimcers at the local radio station WTAM. His Lyons Hall career well fitted him for this work. (Apol­ogies to DENCHFIELD, IGOE and MEIN­ERT.) TOM BYRNE is with the Tele­phone Company. REIDY is quite the at­torney in Joy Hurd's office. "Butz" is sell­ing freight service for the Acme Fast Freight Ser^ace Co. outside of school hours. 
1928 
Louis J. Buckley, St. Paul Seminary, St. Paul, Minn., Secretary. 
BOB HAMILTON saved the day wth a real newsy letter from 1150 Anderson Ave., Bronx, New York City. Bob's line is in­vestment securities and he is with Lee, Stewart & Co. at 63 Wall Street. In order to keep aWay from the temptations of the Metropolis, Bob spends his evenings at JOE OBLIGATO and JACK WINGERTER are behaving themselves and they all passed their semester examinations. In his off hours Bob has been playing center with the New York Athletic Club basketball team. If you are sent up state this spring. Bob, to sell securities, I wish you would round up some of the '28 men who haven't as yet let me know what they are doing. Included in this last are DON COEBETT, GENE FARRELL, BENNY FRANKLIN and GUS JENKINS. 
Rumor has it that WALT LAYNE is with the Music Corporation of America. How about a letter Walt letting me know how your "roomie," JIM CONMY, made out in the parade on 5th Avenue on Easter Sunday? We all hope that Jim survived the crash on Wall Street last month. 
MARK FARRELL'S roommate at Har­vard answered the Class Secretary's plea for news with some dope on the "West Vir­ginia Warbler." Mark, according to the let­ter, has had an illustrious career since he 
Dannemiller Coffee Co. 
New York City 
Roasted Coffee to Wholesale Trade Only. 
SUPREME RESTAURANT BLEND 
1. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
CAMP ROCKNE 
A Summer Camp for Boys 
WINTER, WISCONSIN-ON HUNTER LAKE JUNE 28 - EIGHT WEEKS - AUGUST 23 
and 

Two four weeks periods. 
JUNE 28-JULY 26 a7id JULY 27-AUGUST 23 
EXPERT INSTRUCTION IN: 
Swimming, Canoeing, Baseball, Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Tennis, Track and Horseman­ship, Woodcraft and Nature Work. 
SUMMER SCHOOL and TUTORING 
(Affiliated Summer School of Pio Nono High School, Milwaukee. Authorized credits in Primary and High School Subjects.) 
DIRECTOR (and Chaplain) : Rev. John J. O'Boyle, M.A., Pio Nono High School, St. Francis, Wis., (Near Milwaukee). 
ATHLETIC DIRECTOR: Thomas J. Lieb, M.A., Asst. Football and Track Coach, of Notre Dame; Graduate of Boy Guidance Course, University of Notre Dame. 
Three resident Priests and two Physicians. 
Address Inquiries to: REV. J. J. O'BOYLE, Pio Nono H. S., St. Francis, Milwaukee, Wis. 
Chicago Office: j South Shore 7300 
M. A. DWYER, 1663 E. 79th St. Phones I Stewart 5267 (Home) 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
6 
DAILY 
TRAINS 
to 
California 
this winter 
Details from 
E. P. Fisher, Gen. Agent, Santa Fe Ry. 
311 Merchants Bank Bldgr., Indianapolis, Ind. 
Phone: Riley 3077 
arrived in Boston and his exploits as a Lothario among the girls of Simmons Col­lege have made him as famous as has his voice as a member of the Medical School Quartette. I hope that roommates of other '28 men will follow Mark's roommate's ex­ample. Mark's address is 440 Vanderbilt Hall, Long-wood Ave., Boston, Mass. 
I spent the other afternoon with our good friend Father Gallagan, talking over Sopho­more Hall days. He is just as fine as ever and he says that he finds the St. Thomas gang about as bad as we were in Sopho­more. He gave me the whereabouts of our illustrious publicity man who helped make the Class of '28 famous, LEO McINTYRE. Leo has transferred his abilities to his home town, Bethlehem, Pa. He is a member of the Bethlehem Globe Times staflt. The Editorial department of the Globe Times has become quite famous since Leo's arrival. Now a little publicity, Leo, about some of the neg­ligent Pennsylvanians who have failed to let us know where they are located, for in­stance PHIL LYTLE, JACK LEITZING­ER and BEENIE GARBER? 
The St. Paul newspapers last week carried an announcement of the appointment of RAY MOCK to the position of Athletic Di­rector at St. Thomas College. Ray will also be coach of baseball, basketball and fresh­man football. Ray has just completed a very successful season at St. George High in Evanston, 111. He will assume his duties at St. Thomas next September. 
It was customary for our Class during undergraduate days to remain rather dor­mant throughout the year and then to ex­pound of'energy in the spring in political activity. Now unfortunately we will not be able to meet this April as we have done the last four years and give vent to our feelings in one of those famous Class meetings which made Notre Dame history. In its place, I suggest that you expound some of your excess energy by getting busy and writing a few letters so we can have a good long column next month to celebrate the first anniversary of the Senior Ball of '28. I will be looking for your letter before May first. Don't fail me this time. Tliere are more than half the Class yet to be ac­counted for. 
WILLIAM J. McGEE writes from Rochester, where he is attending the U. of 
No Losses Income Fixed and Certain 
J.he income from a John Hancock Life Annuity is abtoltttdy'^ auartd. You need fear no losses— ^ no reduced income. Your declining years' can befreedfromfinancial worries as they should be. $1,000 or more will create a life income of mtkrinkabU character. For persons of limited capital, there is no safer way of providing a secure income for old age. Our book, "Life .Incomes Tlirough Annuities," tells what the John Hancock Life Annuity plan has done for others—what it will do for you. 
Send for this Book! ••••••••INQUIRY BVREAV-—»•'•'•• 
UPE INSURANCE CoMnuor 
eV lOSrON. MASIACMUSCTTS 
197 Clarendon St, Boston Please send boOkIet"Li& Incomes Through Annoitiet." 
Name , 
Addrm. , • 

Rochester Medical School. He was married in South Bend last Thanksgiving to Miss Erma Jacobs. Mi-, and Mrs. McGee are at 235 Meigs St. Bill says that the medical school at Rochester is ace high, and he seems to be going to town. 
ULYSSES ROTHBALLER, who is at­tending the dental college of Indiana U. at Indianapolis, has been pledged to the Delta Sigma Delta, honorary dental fraternity. 
J. ALAN JOHNSON, Niles, Mich., who went to New York with the National City Bank there, has gone to Shanghai, China, where he will spend four years in the Shanghai branch of the Bank. 
PAUL LUEKEN writes from 5118 W. 23rd St., Cicero, where he is working with the Hurley Machine Co. 
ED McCORMACK writes from the Eas­tern seaboard, where Columbia U. keeps him busy, the following newsy letter: 
Dear Jim: One day about the middle of March when "TURK" KELLY, '28, was exceptionally busy helping take in ads for the New York Times an official advertising form was 
St. Joseph Mineral Baths 
MT. CLEMENS, MICH. 
A good place to rest and build 

up your health, or to enjoy your 
vacation. 
ST. JOSEPH HOSPITAL 100 Bed Hospital MT. CLEMENS, MICH. 
Under the Auspices of 
THE SISTERS OF CHARITY 
-™_4. 
*—— 

THE OSBORN ENGINEERING CO. 
7016 EUCLID AVE. CLEVELAND. OHIO 
ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS 
Stadiums Grandstands Athletic Fields 
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE 
Twenty-three Stadiums and A thletic Fields Thirteen Baseball Parks Five Fair Qround Grandstands 
WE WILL BE GLAD TO FURNISH REFERENCES 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
shoved hurriedly over the counter at him, and a treble voice piped: "Say, mister, how mucli'U that be?" Mechanically "Turk" started to count off the written words: "Wanted — job — in — circus — as — young — fool." "Why, sonny, we can't take this kind of an a-aa-a . . . .," spluttered "Turk," suddenly loking up from the coun­ter for the first time. And there, instead of a baby freak or a youthful clown, stood, not Mayor Walker—^no, nor Texas Guinan, either—nor Harry Emerson Fosdick—^but there, in all the beauty of his vibrant young manhood, stood AETHUR ALOYSIUS Q. DENGHFIELD, lately come out of the West. Art had heard there are too many foreigners in New York, so thought this a good town to start exporting work FRANCIS DESALES RIELLY, also '28, arrived in Manhattan recently. By now he's a regular wolf of Wall Street John B. Kennedy, associate editor of Col­lier's, announcer for Collier's Radio Hour, and Unofficial Alumnus of N. D. No. 652414, came back from his recent trip to the Mid­dle West, singing further paeans of Nostrae Dominae du Lac ART CANTY and LARRY CULLINEY have moved to 115th, near Broadway. They occupy apartment H20, or some such cryptic address in a 66-flat apartment building. Both boys are doing well commercially. ... . PAUL BRUST reports that PAT VARRAVETO, Arch. '28, is at present vacationing in St. Petersburg (Florida, not Russia) JACK LAVELLE has moved to Brooklyn to be nearer Christopher Morley's meller­dramas As for yours truly, he begs to report that although Columbia has some 30,000 students and Notre Dame has but some 3,000, he always did greatly prefer persons, places, and things with compound names. (In further corroboration of this idiosjmcrasy, I cite "cases" at different times on George Hubert-Wilkins, the Lido Venice, and Anheuser Busch.) 

Local Alumni Clubs 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKBON, OHIO 
Frank Steel, '25, 541 Stratford Ave., President. 
John DettUng, '21, 437 B. Buebtel Ave., Secretary. THE NOTRE DAHE CXUB OF ARKANSAS Rev. George F. X. Strassner, '14, Hope, President. Warren Baldwin, '13. 2424 Louisiana St., Little Rock, Secretary. 
THE NOTRE DAHE CLUB OF BUFFALO 
Dr. Robert E. Burns, '17, 948 Main St., President. Gordon Bennett, '27, 722 Prospect St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJVIE CLUB OF CALUMET REGION 
H. J. Lower, '13, 566 Washington St., Gary, 
President. "W. R. Dooley, '26, N. I. Pub. Service Co., Ham­
mond, Secretary 
THE NOTRE 1>AME CLUB OF CHICAGO John "W. Costello, '12, Room 1101, ISO W. Wash­ington, President. Franlc T. Pitzsimmons, '20, 7013 Ridge Ave., Secretary. , 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATt 
B. C. McHugh, '09, P. O. Box 429, President. 
L. V. DuBois o. s. '15, Fredk. Schmidt Co.. 
Fifth and Main Sts.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLETEI^AND Charles A. Mooney Jr., '26, 605-7 Guardian Bldg., President. 
Fred Joyce, '19, Aast. Mgr. AUerton Club Seo'y. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO Raymond J. Eichenlaub, '16, Roster Realtr Bldg., Columbus, President. 
F. X. Finneran. 615 West Chapel St., ColumbuB, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CONNECTICUT 
VALLET 
William J. Granficld. *13. State Bids:.. 1200 Main St., Sprinrfeld. Ma.ss.. President. James A. Curry, '14, 795 Asylum Ave., Hartford. Conn., Secretary. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON Joseph B. Murphy, '11, 309-15 Mutual Home 
Bldg. President 
J. Farrell Johnston, '24, 49 Shaw Ave., Secretary 
NOTRE DABIE CLUB OF DENVER 
J. P. Logan, 3S54 Marlon St., President. 
Henry Scbwalbe, Argonaut Hotel, Sec-Treas. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT 
Harry Kelly, '17, 2428 First Natl. Bk. Bldg., Prcs. Charles O. Molz, '24, The Detroit News, Secretary. 
NOTRE DABIE CLUB OF DE8 MOINKS 
John W. Newman, '98-99 3607 Ingeraoll Ave., Pres. Earl F. Walsh, Des Moines Cath. Col., Secretary 
NOTRE DAME CX.UB OF DISTRICT OF 
COLUMBIA 
L>r. J. A. Flynn, Kl. '12, 1511 R. 1. Ave.N. W., 
Washlnton, President. 
William M. Galvln, '14, Washington, Secy. 
NOTRE DABIE CLUB OF FORT WATNX Hon. .Tohn W. Eggeman, '00, 1201 First Ntl. Bk. Bldg.. President. Thomas McKiernan, '27, 808 Kiernan Ave., Sec. NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREEN BAT, WISCONSIN 
Robert E. Lynch, '03, President. John Diener, '09, 735 S. Quincy St., Secretary. NOTRE DASIE CLUB OF HOUSTON, TEXAS 
George AV. Burkitt, Jr., P. O. Box 652, Pres. 
J. Nat. Powers, 514 Branard St., Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DABIB CLUB OF INDIANAPOUB Leroy J. Keacb, 'Ot, 101 B. Delaware St., 
President. 
Robert Worth, '25, ltl 2 North Delaware St., 
Secretary. 
THE NOTRE DABIE CLUB OF JOLIET 
Edward King, 301 Ruby St., President. Clarence Wilhclmi, 909 Oneida St., Secretary. 







