The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
Vol. 21 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
tion, infinite reparation, perfect thanks­
giving, overwhelming and effective peti­tion in a prayer that the Father can't 

AUuiuu (lelUfl0444. RidHetin 
refuse because it is from His own Divine Son. 
rBY REV. JOHN P. LYNCH, C.S.C.: 
"WHAT DO I GET OUT OF IT?" 

We had a fine reaction to the April article in this comer. One old grad, over the "fat and forty" line, said: "Padre, your theme song of "God first; others second and self last," as a principle for hap-p i n e s s sounds good, but honest­ly it doesn't fit into this high-geared world of today in war or peace. It isn't practical, not to­
Fatlier Lynch 
day at least." 
"What do you mean, practical?" we 

asked. "There's no other practical prin­
ciple for producing happiness — as for 
making a lot of money you seek that to 
gain what but happiness? That motto is 
a practical short-cut to happiness, isn't 
it?" 
Of course the axiom is practical for today, and necessary too. It's scientific also, because it follows from Christ's doctrine of loving God and our neighbor. 
Certainly Christ, being God, is the master psychiatrist and psychologist. As Creator, God knows the real nature and character of man, what makes him "tick" and what can make him really happy. 
Christ preached forgetfulness of self, as the secret of happiness for this earth —and heaven. He Himself practiced it, forgetting Himself utterly, lived and died only for His Father and us. 
He lived that motto. 
SCIENCE CATCHING UP 

Now we find modem psychiatry begin­ning to catch up with Him and His doc­trine. The present best seller by Rev. Emerson Fosdick, entitled On Being a Real Person, is a popular synthesis of various psychiatrical axioms to develop personality for real happiness. 
Its climax and main point can>be sum­marized in this quote from it: "A friend once wrote to Turgenev: 'It seems to me that to put oneself in the second place is the whole significance of life.' Turge­nev replied: 'It seems to me that to discover what to put before oneself, in the first place, is the whole problem of life'" 
The ad\ice is labelled "practical and scientific," for a happy life and sold as such at $2.75 with the backing of the Book-of-the-Month Club. 
More practical, more scientific and at no cost is that axiom: "God first, others second, self third." 
Christ, the real expert on human na­ture and happiness, gave us that doc­trine long ago. He practiced it, too, put­ting His Father and us before Himself 
— even unto death. 
When the world gets really wise and scientific and returns to Christ,-~ft' will get some place — and more happiness, too. 
CHHIST STHX PRACTICES IT 

And sure enough, we see Christ living out that axiom a thousand times a day in our modem world. Christ didn't mere­ly die for us, then rise and retire victori­ous to a distant throne. He didn't merely leave us some rules and doctrine and His example. 
He enlisted "for the duration" — until the end of time, and wanting to stay in the ser\ice of His Father and ours, He continues to live on among us in the Eucharist. 
That's why we enjoy Benediction so much, we feel so surely and strongly the Real Presence, Christ present in His Divinity and humanity, in His love and devotion to us. 
But the more we know about the Mass, the more we know that the Mass is the Real Presence of Christ and more. 
THE MASS IS CALVABY. TOO 

The Mass is more than merely the Real Presence of Christ. It is Calvary continued, with Christ offering Himself anew to His Father for us. We partici­pate in and profit from Christ's sacrifice on Calvary more by attending Mass than if we had actually stood at the very foot of Calvary's Cross. 
The Mass is more than Calvary, too. It is Calvary given over to us — placed in our hands as it were — to give glory to God. Through the Mass we may offer Calvary as pur gift to God. 
< .y"' -' 

At every Mass it is not we who honor God but it is Christ, the God-Man. It being Christ who offers Himself up to His Father and prays for us, we see how there is rendered to God perfect adora­
The more we unite ourselves to that Son in Mass by fervent attendance or by intention when we can't attend during the week, the more Calvary is our gift — Christ's death again being offered — to His Father for us. 
"DONT BE DNSCIENTinC ON SEX" 

That's the motto of the new "scien­tific" leaders in fields of morals and mar­riage. They claim the standards of the Catholic Church are out of date, not suited to modem conditions. 
"Be broadminded," say these leaders, they thonselves being so broadminded that they are flat-headed. They show their stupidity when they claim they have "scientific, progressive, new" stand­ards. They teach and preach greater sex freedom before and after marriage and express contempt for the old moral standards. 
They're not "new, progressive, scien­tific." They're just 1900 years behind the times! Every single distortion and irreg­ularity in sex or marriage that they ad­vocate was known and practiced 1900 years ago in pagan, pre-Christian Rome at its weakest, lowest and most miser­able period. 
OLD ROMAN VS. MODERN ROMEOS 
These modem wise boys couldn't teach anything to the Romans who had easy divorce, unnatural birth control, abor­tions, companionate marriage, free love, homo-sexuality, even "scientific" sex edu­cation. 
Read Roman history and you will find that by Roman principles man was an animal and the slave of the state; wom­an was a chattel and the slave of man, and both were slaves of lust. Naturally, they were in misery, despair and degra­dation until there came truly new, pro­gressive and scientific principles — until Christ and Christianity came preaching purity and the dignity of man and wom­an, with eternal happiness of heaven as the goal of life. 
And now we have todajr's teachers who claim to be "new, progressive, scien­tific." 
Scientific? They're half-baked, because they concern themselves exclusively with one-half of man — the body, the animal part of man. They ignore or deny the soul or spiritual element in man. 
Progressive? They're tragically un­(Continued on page 28) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is publtshed bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame.. Notre Dame. Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1, 1939, at the Postoflice. Notre Dame. Indiana, under the act of August 24. 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Oitholie Alumni Federation. 
James E. Armstrong, '25, Editor; William R. Dooley. '26» Manoging Editor 
VOL 21 JUNE, 1943 No. 5 
Centenary Fund Passes $100,000 Mark 
Success of St. Joseph Valley and Detroit Qubs 
Marks Year; Class of '06 Gives Largest Amount; 
Class of '05 Has Largest Percentage of Contributors 
Alumni participation in the Centenary-Fund of the University of Notre Dame passed the $100,000 mark on June 1. 
Like a victory in the war, that makes pleasant first reading. 
It marks the achievement of a hope that the hoard of directors expressed when Harry Kelly and his fellow officers assumed the reins in the summer of 1941. While no goal was specifically set, it was an unwritten objective to secure a minimum of $100,000 from alumni by the close of the University's Centenary. 
And the money itself comes to the University at a time when it has special significance. In effect, it more than erases the subsidies which have been given by the University to permit the Association's program to function during the long depression years. And in fact, it gives the University funds which will aid greatly in the continuation and the development of the graduate school, upon which Notre Dame has been assuming rapidly increasing stature as a Univer­sity in the most academic connotations. 
There are many highlights of the first year of this new program of alumni par­ticipation, a year which opens a new era of achievement for Notre Dame. 
One highlight was the campaign of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley. With a goal of $25,000 and the generous and active leadership of the South Bend members of the Board of Lay Trustees, the Club, under Clarence Harding, set about the hard work of personal solicitation of members. The fact that the campaign was oversub­scribed, furnishing more than a fourth of the total alumni participation in the Fund, is clear indication that hard work can do it, and nothing else. 
Equally impressive in the recapitula­tion is the high figure set by the Class of 1906, largely through the generosity of two of its members, both trustees of the University. But the figure spotlights again a Class that from its launching of the first Dome has occupied the spot­light frequently. Half the chaplains of the Congregation in World War I . . . the great poet-president of Notre Dame . . . the Engineering Building .. . an editor of The Ave Maria . . . three lay trustees . .. these are some of the things in Notre Dame history traceable to the Qass of 1906. 
Significant in its future promise of alumni loyalty as well as in its present aid is the high percentage of participa­tion by members of the new Classes, 1939, 1940, 1941, and 1942, despite the vast percentage of their members who are in military service. 
Tribute to long-standing loyalty is the Class of 1905 with the highest percent­age of contributors. 
Pattern for progress is the success of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, which promptly set a goal of $4,000 for its Cen­tenary Fund participation, and followed through until the figure was exceeded. 
But as no victory is won without casu­alties, so the first year of our alumni fund effort has its unhappier side. 
There was definitely a failure on the part of the Clubs to follow the lead of the St. Joseph Valley and Detroit Clubs in conducting campaigns to achieve stated objectives. 
And the class representative system, by which letters were sent to members of Classes by classmates, worked well in the instances where it was followed through, but not enough Classes func­tioned in this manner. 
Many alumni failed to recognize the Centenary Fund and the new program 
as an occasion for increasing the small sum asked annually to defray the actual cost of operating the Association. As a result, gifts ranged from $1 to $10,000 with little actual indication of relative abilities to give. This is not a mortal sin or a cold criterion. Participation, in any amount, was our objective this first.year, and the $1 in some instances represented a sacrifice equalling.that of much larger sums. 
The total participation of only one-third of the alumni was perhaps the major disappointment of the first year. The Centeiary year had such definite interest for every Notre Dame man, and participation was possible for such a small contribution, that the hoard. of directors anticipated a record-breaking number of alumni would contribute. 
Some circumstances undoubtedly caused confusion and curtailment of the prog;ram. 
Obviously the outbreak of war in De­cember of 1941 was a major factor. 
Subsequent drainage of almost one-third of our alumni from civilian life into the services was a critical factor. 
Disruption of Club administrations and Class representatives by the call to arms is a matter of record that cannot be discounted. 
The necessity for postponing the Uni­versity's own Centenary program half way through its planned course was a psychological detriment. 
But some of the factors which «tused disappointment in this first year can be interpreted as the most hopeful signs of a successful continuation of the alumni participation on an increasingly import­ant scale in the years ahead. 
Notre Dame's low endowment and its great opportunities presait-a gap which 
only the greatest generosity of alumni and friends can begin to bridge. 
Alumni have show-n that they can play a really significant part in this progress. The Centenary Fund has proved to the Alumni Association that it has passed the liability stage of its development. From now on, each year, it will be a growing asset to Notre Dame. 
With only one-third of the almnni con­tributing §100,000, the implications of increased participation are ob\'ious. 
With only one or two Clubs really conducting a major and serious cam­paign of participation, the implications of 94 Clubs working with proportionate zeal are tremendous. 
With many Classes almost untouched by special representative appeals, the concerted effort through all Classes should result in substantial increases of nimiber and amount. 
The Alumni Office is acutely conscious that the shortage of manpower on the campus, as more than 40 faculty and administrative officers were lost to the war effort, and our corresponding as­sumption of additional campus duties, played a disappointing part in the cur­tailment of cooperation with Class and Club efforts. But again, the ameliora­tion of this condition should result in additional success in the years ahead. 
Conclusions, based on our own study of the program, and on experience of other colleges and universities, seem to be summarized in two observations: 
1.
 We can be satisfied with the first year of the program, if we recognize its limitations and its weaknesses. 

2.
 We cannot be satisfied unless we use this first experience as a stepping stone to a second year that will profit by mistakes and show increased results. 


LAETARE MEDAL PRESENTED 

Notre Bame's 60th Laetare Medal, awarded to Thomas F. Woodlock, New York City, on Laetare Sunday, April 4, was presented to him on May 17 in a ceremony at Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart, New York City, of which Mr. Wheelock is a trustee. 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice-president represented the University at the ceremony and read the citation hon­oring Mr. Wheelock. Most Eev. J. Fran­cis A. Mclntyre, D.D., auxiliary bishop of New York, presided.: The address on behalf of the recipient was given by 

RECAPITULATION, CENTENARY FUND 
Class Gifts to June 1. 1943 
Kumber Kumber Percent Year Amount 
in Glass Contributors Contributors Prior to 1891-$ 878.00 
41 19 .44 
1891_ 5 2 .40 7.50 1892_ 9 3 .333 55.00 1893_ 13 4 .308 1.150X0 
1894_ 10 4 .40 36.00 1895_ 24 5 .21 
42.00 1896-14 .286 
4 45.00 1897_ 10 4 .40 1.640.00 1898_ 13 .154 
2 1.110.00 1899_ 10 1 .10 25.00 I900_ 12 .417 
S 140.00 1901-17 7 .41 1.065.00 I902_ 25 10 .40 517.00 
I903„ 21 .333 
7 110.00 1904­
34 14 .41 2.462.00 1905_ 
15 8 J33 705.00 1906­
37 14 .378 20.367.00 1907-24 10 .417 565.00 1908-33 14 .424 330.00 
1909-31 .355 
11 761.00 1910-27 .481 
13 1.282.00 1911-67 26 .39 1.5494)0 1912­
44 18 .41 4.800.00 1913­
62 26 .42 3.446.00 19X4-67 20 .30 5294)0 1915­
67 31 .463 464.00 1916­
71 31 .437 645.00 1917­
108 31 .287 3.1154)0 1918_ 
61 28 .46 4.514.00 1919­
48 16 .333 1.981.00 1920­
83 33 .398 649.00 1921-94 26 .28 430.60 1922.. ISO .36 
54 2.881.74 1923­
182 64 .352 1.187.00 1924­
208 61 .293 797.50 1925­
289 86 .30 2.259.00 1926­
326 87 .267 1.725.00 1927­
318 84 .264 1.353.20 1928­
414 92 .222 1.445.00 1929­
318 89 .28 2.915.50 1930-444 
119 .287 1.101.80 1931-427 
127 .30 1.543.00 1932-532 
120 .226 983.50 1933-422 
126 .30 661.00 1934-426 
112 .28 2.071.88 1935-452 
108 .239 1,870.33 1936-443 
117 .264 1.576.00 1937-472 
95 .20 828.50 1938-565 
157 .28 2.403.00 1939-606 
207 .34 1.596.45 1940-695 
235 .338 2.807.00 1941-688 
239 .347 6,600.35 1942-512 
196 .383 687.90 1943-323 
67 .21 421.50 1946­
2 325.00 Subscribers. Elected and Clubs 
49 5.486.93 
Totals 

10,409* 3.140 J33S $100,943.18 
* This repr^ents-the number of slnmni (exclndinsr the reli^ous) who were asked to 
contribute to the Centenary Fund. 

Very Kev. John J. Hartigan, president <A list of contrib«t«n by dasses Wciiu on pace IB) of Cathedral College, New York City. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 




1,851 V-12 Students at Notre Dame July 1 
The University of Notre Dame is gearing itself to begin on July 1 the greatest program, in v/ar or peace, of its hundred-year history. 
Contrasted with a peace-time ceiling of some 3,000 students, the summer se­mester will open with a total campus enrollment in all classifications of ap­proximately 4,500. Of this number, 1,851 will be apprentice seamen or Marine privates entering the University's aca­demic courses under the V-12 program; more than 1,200 will continue in the Mid­shipman School at Notre Dame; defense courses are bringing more than 700 war workers to the campus shops, laborator­ies and classrooms each week for eve­ning classes; and there will be some 750 civilian students. 
Beginning July 1, the University wall operate on a 48-week schoolyear com­posed of three 16-week semesters. Since early in 1942 it has been operating on the basis of three 15-week semesters. The change was necessitated by the Navy's V-12 courses. 
With the Navy faculty, a full aca­demic faculty, the "ship's company," added labor in the stepped-up program of feeding and laundering and housing the increased capacity, and a comple­ment of WAVES as the latest break in. its 100-year precedents, the campus pop­ulation is responding \vith an all-out war effort in keeping with Notre Dame's high patriotic traditions. 
A number of details concerning the new V-12 program have become known as the opening of the new Navy pro­gram approaches. 
Capt. H. P. Burnett, USN, command­ing officer of the Midshipman School and of the University's Naval E.O.T.C. will become in addition the commanding officer of the V-12 program (which will now incorporate the N.R.O.T.C. unit). 
The 1,851 students of the Notre Dame V-12 program will be divided as fol­lows: 700 Marine privates; 1,151 ap­prentice seamen, of whom 909 will be in the ordinary V-12 classification and 242 will belong to the N.R.O.T.C. group. 
Of the 1,851 total, there will be 925 
Summer Semester Will Have Total Enrollment in All Classifications of About 4,500; Uni­versity to Operate on 48-Week Schoolyear. 
(Pictures on Back Cover) 

who will be taking college courses for the first time and 926 who will be either continuing Notre Dame students or transfer college students. Engineering students will number 484 and pre-medic students, 200. 
The V-12 students will have their board, room and tuition paid for by the Navy. Uniforms are furnished. And the trainees are paid §50 each month as apprentice seamen or Marine privates on active duty. They will take compul­sory physical training as specified by the Navy and a minimum schedule of mathe­matics and physics similarly prescribed. Their class, drill and study schedule calls for approximately a 58-hour week. 
Otherwise, in their academic curricu­lum, in their extra-curricular activities, in their welfare programs, and in their residence supervision, they will be regu­lar students of the University, with the civilian students attending the same classes and participating in the same activities. (Civilian students also will have a five-hour weekly compulsory phy­sical education program.) 
Rectors and prefects will remain in Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls, which the Marines will occupy; in Walsh, which the N.R.O.T.C. will occupy; and in Alumni and Dillon, which the other V-12 Navy trainees will" occupy. A Navy de­
' 

merit system, however, will snpplonent the University's regnlatians. 
All V-12 members will march to meals in the University Dining Halls, as the midshipmen do, but unlike that group, will not march to class or physical dxiD, which will be more varied as to locations and hours because of the spread through­out the five colleges of the University. 
Civilian students in the summer semes­ter, opening July 1, wiU occupy Soxin Hall, St. Edward's, Brownson Hall and Carroll HalL Breen-Phillips, set aside for the Religious of the Congregation for the summer, will be available for civilian students in the falL 
An eight-i>eiiod day will replace the University's previous seven-period day. Three shifts in the dining halls will be necessary in place of the two shifts here­tofore adequate. Navy regulations pro-: hibit night classes for the V-12. 
The physical training program win be under the University's direction, but Prof. John A. Scannell, head of the Phy­sical Education Department, will have his faculty augmented by Navy and Ma-; rine instructors to the extent necessary to conduct the universal compulsory pro­gram. Swimming is a required course for all Navy trainees. Use of the Univer­sity's two lakes during the summer 
Notre Deone IGdaliipaien Jlro Swam into th* Hayr a En»gn« by Coplcda H. P. Bmnalt lUJf. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
months may supplement the limited fa­cilities of the pool in the Rockne Me­morial. 
Manpower shortage in maintenance has been relieved somewhat by the Na\'y regulation that the V-12 trainees take care of their own rooms. 
Na\'y regulations prohibit making any religious cemeronies compulsory for Navy units, but the colleges and univei-­sities recei^^ng the V-12 trainees have been urged by the Navj' to continue their customary religious programs, which will be available to the students. 
Textbooks are prescribed by the Uni­versity for the various academic courses, but are furnished to the V-12 without cost. The Navy itself supplies its own technical books and manuals. 
Because Washington Hall is inade­quate for more than a fifth of the in­coming campus population, there is a strong possibility that the usual series of entertainments, lectures, moving pic­tures and other features will be moved to the Na^'y Drill Hall for both Navy and civilian attendance. 
Assisting Captain Burnett in directing the various naval groups on the campus will be the following particularly: Lt. Comdr. Milton D. Fairchild, (Ret), USN, executive officer of the Midship­man School; Lt. Comdr. William S. Howell, USN, e.xecutive officer of the V-12 (and executive officer also of the 
N.E.O.T.C. unit within the V-12); Capt. John M. Finney, USMCE, officer in charge of the Marine detachment; En­sign Sylvester J. Jablonski, USNE, liason officer for the Navy in its physi­cal training program. 
THE NAVY AT N.D.—A RESUME 

Have a hard time keeping up with the enlarging Navy program on the campus? 
Well, relax! Even the six-day-a-week "natives" (like the editors of the ALUM­NUS) have a hard time, too. 
But perhaps the following will help: 

The Notre Dame unit of the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps was the first military group to be a part of the campus since the days of World War I. Organized largely through the summer of 1941, this unit officially began its functions in September, 1941, with the opening of the 1941-42 schoolyear. Its first commandant (and only commandant to date) was Capt. Henry P. Burnett, USN. 
Members of the N.R.O.T.C. unit were regular civilian students who, having 
JOE McLOUGHLIN ON CAMPUS 
One of the most coloriul and inter­esting visitors to the campus in re­cent months was Chief Boatswain's Mate Joseph G. McLoughlin. ex. '16, instructor in the United States Mari­time Service training station at HoH­man Island, N. Y. A veteran of the perilous convoy route to Murmansk, Cliief McLoughlin is likewise a vet­eran of World War I in which he served in the Army Air Forces. Re­turning to Jersey City, N. J., in 1919 after 14 montlis overseas, he spent 17 years in the Jersey City fire depart­ment. He joined the maritime service in 1937. 
On the campus. Chief McLoughlin visited particularly with his former teacher. Father John M. Ryan, rector of Walsh Hall. He spoke to a large group of Navy personnel, and three articles by liim, about his experiences on the Murmansk route, appeared in the "South Bend Tribune." 

made special application, were selected competitively according to the total quota assigned for the unit. The Depart­ment of Naval Science and Tactics was set up as a Department of the College of Arts and Letters, and the naval offi­cers assigned to the unit were given fac­ulty rank. Student members of the 
N.R.O.T.C. pursued the ordinary curric­ula of other Notre Dame students but had, in addition, certain class hours of naval studies (for which they received academic credit) and semi-weekly hours of drill. They wore uniforms during drills and at some special functions, but not otherwise. They did not reside in any specific campus hall. 
(With the start of the Navy's V-12 program on July 1 the N.R.O.T.C. unit will, in general, he' absorbed ittto the V-IS, hut ivill retain its separate identity. Walsh Hall will be given over as a 
N.R.O.T.C. residence exchisively. N.R.O.­
T.C. viemhers ivill, of course, ivear naval uniforms at all times. Future members of the N.R.O.T.C. ivill be chosen, not from civilian student applicants as in the past, but—up to the assigned quota of the tinit—from V-12 men wlio have already spent two semesters in residence at Notre Dame.) 
Came Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941! On April 15, 1942, the University wel­comed 1,000 V-7 naval trainees who were to receive at Notre Dame a one-month indoctrination course before being sent on to other naval schools for three months of further training, and their ensigns' commissions. These trainees were housed in Howard, Morrissey and Lyons Halls (Notre Dame students hav­ing "doubled up" in other halls), were fed in the University Dining Halls and used certain other facilities, such as classrooms and athletic fields, leased from the University. But these men were taught, and completely directed otherwise, by naval personnel, which had been much increased. Capt. Burnett was given, in addition to his N.R.O.T.C. du­ties, the general direction of the new V-7 division. 
The first class of V-7 trainees was suc­ceeded by other classes and these also, for the most part, remained on the cam­pus for one month only. (One class of already - commissioned specialists w a s here for six weeks.) Subsequently, it was found necessary, because of the number of trainees had been gradually enlarged, to turn Badin Hall over to Navy occupation. But the character of the V-7 school remained essentially as it was when the progi-am began on April 15. 
On Oct. 5, 1942, the V-7 indoctrination school at Notre Dame became instead the Naval Reserve Midshipmen School. The trainees, instead of spending only 30 days on the campus in most cases, were to spend approximately four months here, with the first month given over to an indoctrination course, and were to be commissioned here as en­signs. Captain Burnett remained as the top naval officer on the campus. 
Two new buildings were quickly erect­ed to care for the increased demands of the Midshipman School — one a com­bined office and classroom building im­mediately to the rear of the Rockne Memorial, and the other a huge drill hall on Cartier Field, just across the road from the University gymnasium. (Since the inaugruration of the N.R.O.­T.C, naval activities on the campus had been directed from headquarters in the Rockne Memorial.) 
Naval personnel, commissioned and non-commissioned, was further increased to handle the increased load of the Mid­shipman School, especially in teaching. The new group remained, as the V-7 gi-oup had been, entirely distinct from the University academically. Midship­men are taught entirely by Navy per­sonnel and receive no Notre Dame aca­demic credit. They do not take an active part in any Notre Dame student activi­ties. 
The first graduating class of the Mid­shipman School completed their work and received their ensigns' commissions on Jan. 28. The second class entered im­mediately and were commissioned May 
27. The third class is now in attendance and will finish in late September. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Arthur J. Hughes, 11, Dies 
Was Outstanding President of Alumni Association, 1936-37. 
Arthur J. Hughes, 56, prominent Chi­cago attorney, president of the Alumni Association in 1936-37, died en June 5. Stricken with a heart ailment a year ago, he had come back only to be laid low with pneumonia in the spring, from which his weakened heart refused to rally. He died in his home on Lake Shore Drive. Surviving him ai-e his wife, Fran­ces Mahle Hughes, and three children, Arthur, Jr., 21, now in the Na\'y at Great Lakes training station; Patricia Ann, 18, and Jerome, 15. 
Art Hughes was one of the greatest in a long line of distinguished presidents of the .A.lumni Association. As a student he was sincere, zealous and withal pop­ular campus figure. He took his Ph.B. with the class of 1911, and was on the staff of the Scholastic, and was editor­in-chief of the 1911 Dome. Returning to Notre Dame several years after gradua­tion, he took his law degree with the class of 1917. 
The same application which marked his studies, accompanied by a personal­ity that was at once genial and intel­lectual, stayed with him throughout his career as a bank official and later as a general practitioner of law. Personal at­tention to clients, and their friendship as well as their business respect, brought him success. 
But in the midst of a taxing legal ca­reer. Art Hughes never lost sight of the broadsr fields which his education had encompassed. He had a rich mind, and an unending will to learn and to serve, far beyond the field of his profession. 
When he became president of the 
The first annual Notre Dame Family Holy Week was an emphatic success in the opinion of its sponsor. Rev. William T. Craddick, '30, prefect of religion, and gave prom­ise of developing into one of the important and inspiring of Notre Dame activities. 
Pictured above in the vestibule of Sacred Heart Church are a few of the thousands of cards which were rettuned to Father Craddick by alumni, parents of students and inntmierable other friends of Notre Dame to signify their joining with the University in a great Holy Week of prayer and petition. Left to right are Father Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., '33, assistant prefect of religion: Father Craddick: and Father Roland G. Simon­itsch, C.S.C» '36, assistant prefect of religion. 
ARTHUR J. HUGHES, '11 

Alumni Association he brought to the office a determination to make a contri­bution that would advance the whole cause of Notre Dame. Without dispar­agement to other presidents, — no one has ever devoted his time and resources to the work of the Association as did Art Hughes. At his own expense, he traveled to Kome to pay the homage of the Association to His Holiness, Pope Pius XI. And deeply imbued with the aggressive Catholic spirit of that great pontiff, he returned to lead Notre Dame men in a more vital awareness of their opportunities and obligations as edu­cated Catholic citizens, particularly through the medium of awakening America to the inroads of atheistic communism. For the first and only time in the history of the Association, its president visited 40 Alumni Clubs from the Atlantic to the Pacific coasts. He addressed many other groups of impor­tance, and wrote many interesting and far-seeing articles for the ALUMNUS. 
So outstanding was his work that in 1937 he was elected to the presidency of the National Catholic Alumni Feder­ation for the ensuing two years. 
There have not been many Notre Dame men who have known so well and exemplified so admirably what an alum­nus of Notre Dame can be, and can do. Some circimistances worked against pub­lic recognition of Art Hughes' real worth. The history of the Alvmini Asso­ciation in its impetus from his presi­dency should do much in later years to raise him to his proper stature. Prayers for his soul can well be accompanied by prayers for Notre Dame's realization of his hopes. R. I. P. 
UNIVERSAL COMMUNION SUNDAY 
Many of the details of the club Communion-breakfasts on Sunday, May 2, replacing this year for the most part the traditional Universal Notre Dame Night, will be found in the club news section of the ALUMNUS, under the sep­arate club headings. The response of the clubs to suggestions of the Alumni Association with regard to the Commun­ion-breakfasts was gratifying, especially in view of the shortness of time and the many other difficulties involved. 
In recommending a general club Com­munion the Association was following, in general pattern, the plan put forth and promoted a few years ago by the Notre Dame Club of New York Citj'. Whether the Communion should be on or near December 8, as originally sug­gested by the New York Club, or at some other time of the year, is still a question for general discussion. But all expressions of opinion seem to indicate clearly that a Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday is desirable and de­sired. 

The Alumni Office will be glad to re­ceive opinions from out thar. 

PROVINCIAL CHAPTER MEETS 

The triennial provincial chapter of the United States province of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross convened on June 18, at Notre Dame. 
Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, pro­vincial, announced that the chapter will be in session about a week, with un­usually serious problems to consider as a result of war conditions. Customary problems of the chapter concern disci­pline, studies, missions, finances, etc., for the various projects of the Congre­gation. 
In addition to the provincial, who is chairman of the chapter, the body con­sists of 34 priests and 34 Brothers. of the Congregation. Members of the pro­vincial council, and all superiors are erc­officio members, comprising about half the group. The remaining half are dele­gates elected by the various communi­ties that make up the Congregation in the United States. 



GIFTS 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts to the Centenary Fund: 
Friends of the University 

Miss Marie Theresa Corby, Lakewood, 0 §1,000 
Greater Indianapolis Amusement Co., Inc., per 
Fred J. Dolle, Vice-President, Louisville, Ky 1,000 Mr. and Mrs. Frank C. Suarez, New York City 260 Hugh Dean, Detroit _ 200 
Mr. Dean is making a contribution of a §100.00 Defense Bond for every month for twelve months, or for the "duration," whichever is the longer period of time. 
Anonymous (Defense Bond) 100 Barney Balaban, New York City 100 Richard O. Burns, Chicago 100 Nicholas M. Schenck, New York City ] 100 Hugh E. Wall, Sr., Dayton, 0 100 Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Killoren, Appleton, Wis _ 25 
A. D. Plamondon, Jr., Chicago 25 
John Pierre Roche, Chicago 25 (Third §25.00 payment on §100.00 pledge) 
W. A. Middendoi-f, Covington, Ky. 
To the Mediaeval Librari/ Fund 
Anonymous 
To the Engineering Department 
Anonymous, for research purposes 

(Rev.) HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C. 
President of the University 
 10 1,000  1,000 

BfuUUfkt /Uumni 
MARK E . ZIMMERER, M.E . '21 
TlffARK E . ZIMMERER, M.E. '21, vice-
president and general manager of 
the Kingston Products Corporation, Ko­
komo, Ind., was awarded on April 5 an 
official United States Army ordnance 
citation for distinguished service and 
personal contribution on the home front. 
The first of its kind in Kokomo and one 
of the few in the country, the award was 
given to Mark for his design of a new 
artillery ammunition fuse which has re­
sulted in a large saving of aluminum. 

Pressntation of the award was made to Mark by Lt. Col. W. R. Martin, exec­utive officer of the Cincinnati ordnance district, at a banquet in the Hotel Fran­ces, Kokomo. Present were 50 of the company's executives and other promi­nent guests. Toastmaster was Karl F. Johnson, '29. J. Paul Johnson, '26, presi­dent of the corporation, spoke. 
The citation read as follows: "The Ordnance. Department, United States Army, makes it known that Mr. Mark E. Zimmerer has rendered distinguished seizes to his country in the struggle to maintain freedom of all people. By the exercise of his initiative and ingenu­ity he has made a marked contribution to the vital war effort and production program to conserve critical materiel and machines." 
Mark has been with Kingston since his graduation from Notre Dame, and, until two years ago, was chief engineer of the organization. He is a member of the American Legion and a fourth de­gree Knight of Columbus. For several years he served as district deputy of the 
K. of C. Carl E. Zimmerer, '34, Louis­ville, is a brother. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

179 Awarded Degrees May 2 
Father Arthur J. Hope Ad­dresses Wartime Graduates 
Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., assistant editor of The Ave Maria, and author of the recently published Notre Dame—One Hundred Years was the principal speak­er on Sunday, May 2, as 179 degrees, graduate an d undergraduate, wer e awarded at a special wartime convo­cation in Washington Hall. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president, presented the degrees and spoke bi-iefly. 
Not a commencement in the usual sense of the word, since the majority of the class of 1943 had been graduated on Dec. 20, 1942, under the current ac­celerated academic program, the cere­mony still held unusual interest because most of the graduates were to go, al­most at once, into military service. 
And the degree-awarding was the first such to be conducted in Washington Hall (except for the summer school com­mencements, which were much smaller) for many years. Memories inevitably went back 20 years and more, when a class of 179 would have been large under any circumstances and when Washing­
ton Hall provided ample space for all attendants. 
Father O'Donnell celebrated a special high Mass for the graduates on Sunday morning in Sacred Heart Church. The sermon at the Mass was by Rev. John 
J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice-president. 
The Washington Hall program in the afternoon included selections by a string ensemble, the playing of "Ave Maria" by Rocco Germano, '45, of Mishawaka and, at the conclusion, the singing of the "Star Spangled Banner." 
A feature of the week-end was the presentation of a law degree to Thomas 
W. Cain, Niles, Mich., an invalid at home since June 13, 1941, when he was hurt in an automobile acident. Tom had com­pleted two years of law when he was in­jured. Through special approval of the American Association of Law Schools and of the academic council of the Uni­versity, he was tutored at home by Notre Dame professors to complete the third year of his legal training. 
NEW LAW COURSES 

Two major innovations were an­nounced on May 22 by the Notre Dame College of Law, to become effective with the sninmer semester, July 1. 
Of interest to defense workers and many other business and professional men is the announcement of law classes to be taught at convenient hours in the late afteiTioon and evening. 
And of equal general interest is the addition to the regular law^ curriculum of new courses in aviation law and the laws of federal and state taxation. 
The announcements, coming jointly from Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, pres­ident of the University, and Clarence E. Manion, dean of the College of Law, stressed the University's conviction that the protection of American democracy lies in a sound legal structure, with; a proper program of continuing training. 
Campus residence enrollment, closed when the four halls available for civilian students reached their capacity of 750 with early registration, does not affect the law school materisdly, since most of its students are resident off-campus. Registration, as a result, continues for the new courses in law, both for reg^ilar students and for those interested in the special courses. 

TWENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY 

Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, United States provincial of the Con­gregation of .Holy Cross, observed on May 14 the 25th anniversary of his or­dination to the priesthood. Father Stein­er was celebrant of a solemn Mass on that day in Sacred Heart Church, with Rev. Joseph Maguire, C.S.C, as deacon and Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C, as sub-deacon. Congratulations of the Commun­ity were extended to Father Steiner after the Mass by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University.. 
Father Steiner was graduated from Notre Dame in 1899 and practiced civil engineering until 1911 when he returned to Notre Dame as a teacher. He entered the Congregation in 1914 and was or­dained in 1918. He was dean of the Col­lege of Engineering when, in 1938, he was elected provincial. 

ON CHURCH OF THE AIR 

Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, was the speaker Eas­ter Sunday, April 25, on the Church of the Air program, CBS feature. An octet from the University Glee Club, directed by Prof. Daniel Pedtke, provided th^ 
Shades of the Past! \1% Receive Degrees in Washington Hall music for the broadcast. 


Byrne and Hoban Are Nominees 
Committees of Past Presi­dents Choose Candidates 
Under the pressure of an accelerated program and the noise of breaking prece­dents, nominations for new officers for the Alumni Association were finally made at the urgent behest of the in­cumbents. There isn't much use of devoting a lot of space to the story in this issue. By the time you read it, the ballots will be in and counted and the keys turned over. 

Happily, not much need be said. The nominating committees were made up of tried and true leaders, past presidents of the Association. Bernard J. Voll, '17, South Bend, headed a committee includ­ing Harry G. Hogan, '04, Fort Wayne, and Clement C. Mitchell, '02, Chicago. John H. Neeson, '03, Philadelphia, head­ed the other committee, completed by William E. Cotter, '13, New York City, and John P. Murphy, '12, Cleveland. Representing not only a high record of achievement in their own right, but also six major alumni clubs, these committees selected a ballot constituted as yon al­ready know of uniformly able candidates. 
It is a merited tribute to the able administration of Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., '16, president of Notre Dame dur­ing one of its great crises, that he should be the unanimous choice for honorary president of the Association, succeeding Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, former president, now doing a great work with the armed forces as auxiliary bishop of the Army and Navy diocese. 
To succeed the dynamic Harry Kelly, '17, elected governor of Michigan last November, the committees picked candi­dates separately, as the constitution de­mands. 
Tom Byrne, '28, has been a key figure in Cleveland Club activities for many years, and has been a frequent attend­ant at the Local Club Councils on the campus. He has initiative, imagination, and a driving organizational sense. 
Tom Hoban, '18, is equally able in very similar style. His participation in the affairs of the Notre Dame Club of Chi­cago has resulted in definite benefit to the progress of that large organization. 
Both these men are proved leaders. Both are accessible, an important point under current restrictions. 
To succeed the popular Fred Mahaffey, '17, Indianapolis, as first vice-president. 
TOM BYKNE 

a job aimed at supervision of the Asso­ciation's financial pi-ogram, the commit­tees selected Gerald "Kid" Ashe, '22, Hilton, N. Y., popular and much trav­eled secretary of the Class of 1922, and John C. Tully, '11, La Grange banker, lay trustee, and now widely known as editor of Books On Trial, Catholic liter­ary critique published through the Thom­as More Book Shop in Chicago. 
To carry on in place of Judge Al Scott, '22, of Los Angeles, in the second vice-presidency with its emphasis on Local Club programs, the nominees are E. Bradley Bailey, '22 (that Class again) the advertising dynamo of the Philadel­phia Club (now on lend-lease to launch a Notre Dame Club in Baltimore) and Clifford B. Ward, '23, the quiet but hard­hitting journalist who is now an integral part of the Fort Wayne Club and man­aging editor of the Fort Wayne Neiis-Sentinel. 
Succeeding Ed O'Toole, '25, director for four years (who ought to get time and a half for a year's overtime) the committees chose John T. Balfe, '20, whose long record of achievement in the New York Club and with the Class of 1920 is a matter of knowledge to alum­ni everywhere, and Joseph F. Donahue, '12, a long time doer in the ranks of the St. Joseph Valley Club, and a pillar in that Club's Centenary campaign. 
So here we are again — with a com-
ToM HOBAN 
forting set of candidates in that the University and the Alumni Association can't lose. While circumstances dictate that only one man can be elected to each office, alumni have long felt that the nomination was the real badge of honor, the election a simple turn of the wheel. The ALUMNUS can say now that it will be happy to announce the new officers in the next issue. 

SHANLEy IN "EXTENSION" 
The March Extension, under the title of "Song on Gaudalcanal," features a letter from Ensign Fred Shanley, US­NR, '35. In an introductory note the editor says: "Thousands of miles over­seas in the Guadalcanal battle zone. En­sign Fred Shanley celebrated Christmas Eve — global style. It was an entirely new kind of Christmas Eve for Ensign Shanley. Last year he was accountant in San Francisco; this year he's a sailor fighting for our lives in the Southern Pacific. This letter gives you a graphic picture of what this twenty-eight year old alumnus of Notre Dame thought and felt on that Tioly night'." 
Did you know that there is a Rockne, Texas, named after the late Notre Dame coach? Not even Mrs. Rockne knew about it until Jim Costin, sports editor of the Smith Betid Tribune, and Jimmy McGar­raghy, Chicago, brought out the facts. The town, formerly called Hilbigville, was so named in 1930 or 1931 by a vote of the children of the local parochial school. They had a choice between Kilmer and Rockne. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 


The Graduation Address 
The Latin word "cardo" means a hinge. And the English term "cardinal," as applied to virtues, means a virtue from which other virtues depend, or hang, or hinge. Among the virtues called cardinal, St. Thomas enumer­ates fortitude, which might be bluntly described as the ability to hang on to some­thing good when 
FATHER HOPE ^^^ ^''•"g g^*^ 

tough. Fortitude must not be confused with that quality of toughness or ruthless­ness which often characterizes a daring murder or a diiKcult robbery. That sort of "courage" is not a virtue for the simple reason that its object is some­thing morally bad. Fortitude is forti­tude only when the target is somsthing pleasing to God. If you hang on to that when the going gets tough, you have the virtue of fortitude. 
Among other things, it has been the endeavor of Notre Dame in these years of your student-ship to point out to you the morally good things at which you should aim — charity and justice and chastity and the preservation of your faith — and to give you practical les­sons in hanging on, practice in fortitude. How will you have absorbed those les­sons, only the years that be ahead will tell. 
In the summer of 1924, I was in France with seven other Notre Dame graduates. We had settled down at a little place called Betharram, about nine miles from Lourdes, and were prepar­ing to enjoy what we were pleased to call a well earned vacation. The French people around us, however, were in a state of turmoil. M. Herriot, who was prime minister at the time, had an­nounced only recently that he and his cabinet would once more put into eiTect the anti-religious laws of 1902. 
Those laws, levied some 22 years pre­viously, had decreed that no religious order in France could henceforth have 
By REV. ARTHUR J. HOPE.. "20 
Washington Hall, May 2, 1943 

any legal standing; decreed that all the property of religious orders should be confiscated by the state; that no reli­gious order could conduct schools, hos­pitals, orphanages, or even churches; that the religious garb was to be laid aside, — it was against the law. And if the religious orders did not like it, they could pack up and leave the country. 
So in 1902 and 1903, thousands of reli­gious, men and women, deprived of everything save their honor, took the road to exile, went to every civilized country and foreign mission in the world, to make a new start. 
In the meantime all their property in France went, supposedly, into the gov­ernmental treasury. Actually, it went to line the pockets of those anti-clerical gentlemen of the French parliament who in their blasphemous greed proclaimed in open session that their next step would be to tear all religion from the heavens. That they did not take that, "next step" is explained quite simply by the fact that such an enterprise is financially unprofitable. It takes some­thing more than a French parliamentar­ian to squeeze a "fin" out of a celestial body. 
Between the years 1902 and 1914 all religious were kept exiled from France. What that meant to French Catholics — the loss of religious instruction in the schools, the lack of Christian nursing in hospitals, the absence of Catholic charity in the numerous institutions hitherto maintained by religious orders 
— can easily be guessed. If a religious so much as stepped back into France to work as a religious, he was fined, or thrown into jail, or both. 
You might ask, as we all did: how, if France is so Catholic, could such an outrage have happened? To tell you the truth, I have never yet heard a satis­factory explanation. Was the Catholic laity of France too indifferent to fight back? I think not. I recall one incident at Angers. On the morning scheduled for the expulsion of the Capuchins, the local gendarmerie approached the mon­astery to execute the orders. They found their road blocked. Thousands of Cath­olic men and women armed with nothing more than staves and pitchforks, men­aced the police. It was only after an hour that tlie gentlemen of the law were able to make their way to the monastery gate. 
When the door was opened, the Father Superior asked what was wanted. He was told, with a great deal of apology — "this is too bad, vraivient! this hurts me much, believe me, M. I'Abbe! But it is none of my doing, you know! Orders from Paris!" 
"What is it you want, please!" 
"You will have to pack up and get out!" 
Now, when the people heard this, they shouted to the Superior: "Don't leave us! Stay where you are! We will fight! Only say the word and we will fight!" 
That word was never given. All over France the laity reacted that way. If they had been encouraged or even per­mitted to show their strength, the reli­gious would never have been exiled. 
Well, then, how did it happen? Was it because the religious orders were too cowardly to fight back? Not exactly. Be­fore religious orders can fight back, they have to ask permission. And in this case, they submitted the question to the bish­ops of France: 
"Shall we resist?" 
After considerable hesitation, the bish­ops answered: "Ah, it seems hopeless! Protest, yes; but resist? No. It is perse­cution, indeed, but all in all, it seems better to submit. Depart if you must. You will have your dignity, resistance will mean bloodshed and we want none of that." 
So the religious left France. 
But in 1914, when Germany dedared war on France, the French government sent word to all those exiled religious to return at once and enter the armed forces. Mind you, the French govern­ment did not want them as chaplains. By no means. Remember, they had vowed to snatch religious from the heavens! No, these exiled religions were to be enlisted just as common soldiers. No attention was paid to their sacer­dotal character. Why so many thousands of them returned to serve a nation which had turned them out and stolen their property remains to me a puzzle. About the only thing I can say is that is is a 
mystery and a miracle of patriotism. Before that war was over, upwards of 7,C00 priests had been killed fighting in the trenches. 
After such a display of unselfish de­votion, it was to be expected that the French government would relent its per­secution of religious orders. And it did 
— for six years. But in 1924, as I have said, M. Herriot and his miserable anti­clerical government were once more threatening to oust the reli^ous and confiscate what property they had been able to acquire. 
The day after M. Herriot made public his intentions, a French Jesuit, Paul Donceur, wrote a letter which was print­ed in a provincial paper. The next eve­ning it appeared in the Paris newspa­pers. M. Herriot read it. It went some­thing like this: 
"In 1902, like my fellow religious, I left France, sent into exile by the iniquitous laws of Parliament. But on that August morning of 1914, when the German ai-mies invaded France, I knelt at the feet of my superior, in exile, asked his blessing, and returned at once to France. I joined the colors and was assigned to a regiment along the Meuse. Later I went up to Verdun and there I was twice wounded. Twice my superior officers recommended me 
. for honors. Twice they decorated me for what was a simple act of duty. 
"I came back to France to fight as a simple soldier. After the war was over. I stayed on. Like hundreds of my fellow-religious, I felt that France would cease her persecution of us. You chased us out of France in 1902 ^and confiscated our property. But in 1914, you pleaded with us to come back. W P were of some use in 1914. But now, that the war is over, now that the battle is won, you are going to tell us to pack up and be on our way. You are telling us to go. M. Herriot, we vein not go — 710US n'irons pas — we will not go, not this time. We will stay and we will fight!" 

That letter — there was much more to it than I have gfiven — was a burning brand that infiamed French Catholics. I do not believe that it alone would have aflfected the anti-clerical Herriot. But it just so happened that three prominent French generals — Marshal Foch, Gen­erals Mangin and Castelnau — also told 
M. Herriot what his government might expect from the French army if he counted on it to carry out the anti­relig^ious laws. 
I shall never forget a small and 

rather inconsequential scene that took place that summer of 1924. On the grounds of the college at Betharram where we were staying, a French priest, George Sauvage, was walking up and down with the Bishop of Poitiers. They have been classmates in the Seminary and the priest made bold to speak to the bishop with great frankness. I have for­gotten i^ost of the conversation, but 1 do remember the priest's final plea: "If,'' he said, "the government does proceed against us, then do not tell us to go. Let us stay, let us fight, let us shed our blood even. Let not such a disgrace fall on us ever again!" 
To which tlie bishop replied: "So be it!" 
* * * 

Why should I speak to you thus on your graduation day? Is there any par­allel between that anti-clerical govern­ment of France and our own? Frankly, no. We have a government that treats the Catholic religion with the utmost consideration. There are few lands in the world where the Catholic religion is less hampered than right here. 
Are there any signs in our land to indicate that what happened to the reli­gious in France might also happen here? Unfortunately, yes. To consider but one point: The consistent editorial policy of such magazines as The Nation, The Neto Republic, Time, Fortune and Life seeks to discredit the Catholic church. How? By linking it up wtih some form of Fascism. They want the people of Amer­ica to believe that the Catholic Church favors some form of totalitai-ianism. 
Will they succeed? Catholics must re­member that they form only a minority in this country. And in times of social and military upheavals, events have al­ways gone hard on minorities. Catholics, although they constitute only 16 per cent of our population, form more than 30 per cent of our fighting forces. For thus surpassing generosity, the Catho­lics of America desei-ve to emerge from this conflict with their religious liber­ties undiminished. 
But will they do so? It is hard to say. Certainly we will have to fight for that liberty. The other day. President Roose­velt said: "The man who is not willing to fight for liberty is in danger of losing it." That is why I have talked to you today about fortitude. The Catholic who is not willing to fight for his faith is in danger of losing it. And if you do lose it, you lose something infinitely more precious than your national citizenship. But if you hang on to your faith, even when the going gets tough — hang on to it in spite of cross and crucible — then 
you will have retained at least your passport to heaven. 
That is the spirit Notre Dame" expects of you. We have every reason to antici­pate your success from these lessons of fortitude. Your days at Notre Dame are now closing. Undoubtedly, there have been some unpleasant moments that you spent among us. But there were fine days, too. Not the least of these days have been those on which you bore a clean, clear conscience; those days when you put up a winning fight against your only real enemy; those half-hours you spent in adoration before the King; those days of fervent Holy Communion; those Masses that you served; that never ending procession to the Grotto. These are the things that have been your bread and meat. These are the things that have fed your spirit. These are the things you must remember if, on some future battle ground, a spirtiual enemy should try to deprive you of your Faith. Consider yourself the luckiest Notre Dame man in the w irld if it should be­come your privilege even to die for the cause of that spirit. 


20 N. D. MIDSHIPMEN 
Twenty alumni returned to the cam­pus on May 31 as trainees in the Naval Reserve Midshipmen School. Nineteen of the men were graduated with the class of 1943, while the twentieth, Albert J. Schmitz, '39, had been previously sta­tioned at naval stations at the Univer­sity of Chicago and Norfolk, Va. 

Alumni who are in training at the Notre Dame school include: Francis J. Conforti, Bronx, N. Y.; John K. Dug­gan, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Rajmiond B. Dug­gan, Sioux City, la.; John J. Fearon, Dansville, N. Y.; Eugene A. Fehlig, St. Louis; William J. Fisher, Huron, O.; Rudolph Gans, Staten Island, N. Y.; Donald T. Heltzel, Warren, 0.; William 
C. Johnson, Valley Stream, N. Y.; Frank 
L. Kunkel, Kew Gardens, N. Y.; William 
R. Mahon, Bayonne, N. J.; Anthony J. Maloney, Bronx, N. Y.; William A. Mc­Gowan, Jersey Shore, Pa.; Samuel E. Molter, Goodland, Ind.; John D. O'Mal­ley, Terre Haute, Ind.; Albert J. Schmitz, St. Joseph, Mo.; Daniel C. Stewart, Chicago, 111.; Franklin H. Stu­art, Wellesley Hills, Mass.; John E. Troup, Kansas City, Mo.; Antonino V. Zagami, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
This group will remain at Notre Dame for four months and will be commis­sioned ensigns late in September. They comprise the third class to enter the local station since it became a midship­man school on Oct. 5. 
The Notre Dame Alumnu 13 



ATHLETICS 
BASEBALL 
The Irish baseballers, comprising one of the most talented teams seen at Notre Dame in recent years, battled the weath­er as well as their opponents during the abbreviated 1943 schedule, but Coach Jake Kline's nine finished the season with a record of five wins against three defeats. Eain and cold weather forced the cancellation of a home and home series with Michigan, cutting the al­ready shortened ten-game schedule to eight contests. 
The squad opened the season with an overwhelming 21-1 victory over a hap­less Chicago team in a game in which Ted Manyak, Flint, Mich., sophomore, John Creevey, Clawson, Mich., junior, and Hal Smullen, West Haven, Conn., senior, divided the pitching duties. An eighth inning rally gave the Irish a 9-4 win in the first game of a two-game ser­ies with Indiana, but the following day the Hoosiers' Ward Williams, lanky All-Conference basketball center, held Notre Dame to three hits and gave Indiana a split in the series, 3-2. 
Michigan State fell, 12-2 and 8-0, in a home and home series as John Creevey and Bob Juday, Goshen, Ind., sophomore, turned in two pitching masterpieces. The boys dropped a 4-2 verdict- to West­ern Michigan and then outhit the power­ful Great Lakes aggregation before los­ing, 8-3, at the Naval Training Station. The Irish pounded three former major league pitchers in this contest, but could not effectively bunch their blows. In the season finale Coach Kline's squad gained revenge over Western Michigan by cop­ping a 4-2 decision on Cartier field. 
Expert bleacherites opined that the record of five won and three lost was no right measure of the high skill of this 1943 baseball team. Given even a normal college season, it would have proved it­self to be one of the top baseball teams of N. D. history, 'twas widely claimed. 
The season's record: 
Notre Dame. 21; ChicaKO. 1 Notre Dame, 9 ; Indiana. 4 Notre Dame, 2 ; Indiana, 3 Notre Dame, 12: Michifian State, 2 Notre Dame, 8; Michisan State, 0 Notre Dame, 2: Western Michii^n, 4 Notre Dame, 3: Great Lakes, 8 Notre Dame, 4 ; Western Michisan, 2 

TRACK 
The Irish undefeated track squad, gen­erally held to be the best in Notre Dame history, was confined to two outdoor ap­
• pearances by the accelerated semester graduation on May 2, but made repre­sentative showings in both the Drake Relays, in Des Moines, la., and the Penn Relays, in Philadelphia. 
The record-breaking four-mile relay team, composed of Tony Maloney, New York City, Bill Leonard, Schenectady, 
N. Y., Frank Conforti, New York City, and OUie Hunter, Erie, Pa., fell far short of the world outdoor record in its attempt at the Penn carnival, but still managed to cover the distance in 17:54.3 to win the event by almost half a lap. The Irish distance medley relay team, composed of Leonard, Conforti, Tupta and Hunter, also won their event before nearly 20,000 fans. Ollie Hunter romped home with the two mile run and Jim Delaney, San Francisco shot-put ace, fin­ished second to New York University's Bernard Mayer, who had also nosed out Jim in the indoor A.A.U. meet in Feb­ruary. 
The squad at the Drake Relays, ac­companied by Ed McKeever and Athletic Director Frank Leahy, brought home seconds in the four-mile relay and the 
Track Coach Al Hands' 

two-mile relay, a fourth by Bill Dillon in the high hurdles, a third by John Murphy in the 100-yard dash, and a fifth by John Yonakor in the shot-put. 
The 1943 squad, selected by the late John P. Nicholson as his "dream team," thus completed its season withoat a blemish on its record. Host members of the squad will be in military service before another track season rolls around. 
TENNIS 
Coach Walter Langford's powerful tennis squad followed closely on the heels of the 1942 undefeated, team as it chalked up five wins and two defeats against the best teams of the Midwest. 
The Irish racqueteers, after beating Wisconsin in the season's opener, 6-3, journeyed to Greencastle, Ind., to trim Indiana, 8-1, in a morning match and then came back to rout a strong DePauw team, 6-3. Michig^an handed the Irish their first defeat in two years when they scored a 5-4 win in a match played at Ann Arbor. This snapped a 12-game Notre Dame winning streak begun in 1942. 
Coach Langford's men showed their merit, however, by bouncing back to take Northwestern, 6-3. Michigan State, rated by the Notre Dame coach as the best team in the Midwest before the start of the season, lived up to this reputation ' by dealing Notre Dame their second loss of the season, 6-3. The Irish rang down the curtain on the 1943 season by easily defeating Western Michigan, 6-3. 
Jimmy Evert, No. 1 man on the Notre Dame team and former National Junior indoor champion in both singles and doubles as' well as outdoor champ in doubles, finished the season undefeated in singles and teamed with Bob Fanght, No. 2 Irish player, to win over' all doubles competition. Faught was beaten once in singles during the course of the season. 
The season's record: . 
Notre Dame, 6; Wisconsin, 3 Notre Dame, 6; DePauw, 3 Notre Dame, 8: Indiana, 1 Notre Dame, 4: Michigan, 3 Notre Dame, 6; Northwestern, 3 Notre Dame, 3: Michigan State, S Notre Dame, 6; Western Michigan, 3 

GOLF The Notre Dame golf team, under the direction of Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C, golf coach, provided the surprise of the Notre Dame athletic year when they completed the abbreviated season with the excellent record of four wins in five matches. 
Father Holderith faced 1943 with but bleak prospects for a successful season because of a draft ridden squad. Capt. Gene Fehlig was the only monogram winner to report for practice, but Fath­er Holderith uncovered several other competent golfers before the opening of the season and after the curtain raiser with Michigan his squad breezed through four matches without a defeat. 
Stalwarts of the team, included be­sides the reliable Fehlig, Mel Wilke, De­troit junior; Jim Gallagher, Newton, la., junior; Joseph LaFortune, Tulsa, Okla., freshman; and Jim Besenfelder. Spring Valley, 111., freshman. 
The season's record: 
Notre Dame, 7: Michigan, 17 Notre Dame. 8; Michigan State, 7 Notre Dame, 14^ : Northwestern, 9^^ Notre Dame, 18; Michigan State. S Notre Dame, 18; Detroit, 0 

FOOTBALL Two special rulings by the Western Conference issued at its meeting on May 14 may have widespread effect on 1943 Notre Dame football. While Notre Dame is not, of course, a Big Ten mem­ber, it does generally follow Big Ten regulations. 
A special war-time rule was issued permitting four weeks of summer prac­tice by Big Ten schools. Coach Frank Leahy has indicated he will start such practice sessions at Notre Dame shortly after the opening of the summer semes­ter, on July 1. 
Another war-time rule passed by the conference permits use of freshmen, or other new students, in varsity football before they actually attend classes. The fall semester at Notre Dame will open around Nov. 1 and new students begin­ning classes in that semester will be permitted to take part in fall practice and to represent the University before they start attending classes early in November. 
SCANNELL IS ELEQED 

Dr. John A. Scannell, head of the Phy­sical Education Department at Notre Dame since 1929, was on April 3 named president-elect of the Indiana Associa­tion for Health, Physical Education & Recreation. He \vill take office next year. 

KRAUSE NAMED COACH 

Edward W. Krause, '34, was named head basketball coach of the University in an announcement made on May 22 by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president. 
In naming Krause, Father O'Donnell said: "I was away from the University 
Ed Krause as a Player 

at the time of George Keogan's death. I would like to say that Notre Dame re­members well his long years of devoted service and the outstanding record of his teams. We think of him as belonging with two other Notre Dame immortals in sports, Rockne and Nicholson. 
"Ed Krause, who was Mr. Keogan's assistant and who coached the team for the rest of the season, is well known to the alumni and friends of Notre Dame. His record as an undergraduate and afterwards as a coach has brought him the regard of persons who appreciate high ideals in sports. 
"Mr. Krause will continue to assist Coach Frank Leahy in football, and will have the faculty rank of instructor in the Department of Physical Education. In the latter capacity he will help con­duct the wartime physical conditioning program on the campus." 
Krause, AU-American selection in both football and basketball at Notre Dame, upon graduation went to St. Mary's Col­lege, Winona, Minn., as director of ath­letics and head coach of football, basket­ball and baseball. He resigned at St. Mary's and became assistant football coach at Holy Cross College in 1938, and became head basketball coach there. He was acting in that capacity when he was signed as assistant football and basketball coach at Notre Dame in Jan-nary, 1942. 

PETRITZ HONORED 
Joseph S. Petritz, '32, for 13 years sports publicity director at Notre Dame and sports editor of the ALUMNUS and now a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy, re­ceived a special citation from the Ameri­can College Publicity Association at its recent convention in New York City. 
The college publicists commended Joe specifically for "his part in helping the American people to appreciate the im­portance of intercollegiate athletics in preparing young men for national ser­vice during this difficult period; for his development of standardized sports sta­tistical records, which have proved valu­able to sports writers and sports publici­ty men of the nation." 
They also noted Joe's efforts "in rais­ing college sports publicity to a high plane, thus enhancing the dignity of this professional field" and expressed appre­ciation for "his unfailing coopex'ation with and unselfish aid to sports publicity men in other institutions." 
Petritz was lauded for "his modesty, friendliness, and high ideals which have won for himself, his University, and col­lege sports publicity men in general, the respect and friendship of the sports writers of America." 
Joe gained the friendship and respect of every newspaper man with whom he came in contact, and he became noted for the e-IHcient manner in which he han­dled the huge task of managing the press box in the Notre Dame stadium during the football seasons. 
Petritz at Work 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
EMSWT Courses Contmue 
Plan Summer Session For Grad­uate Students; To Start June 29 
No summer respite have been granted the facilities of the University which are training defense workers of the St. Joseph Valley, Kev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., director of the engineering man­agement and sci­ence war train­ing program, an­nounced. Thirty classes, training 700 students, fin­ished the spring session of the 
FATHER MOORE 

EMSWT and classes in the new series courses opened May 17. 
The new series offers classes in 59 divisions under the general heading of accounting, aeronautical engineering, chemical engineering, chemistry, civil engineering, drawing and drafting, elec­trical engineering, industrial engineer­ing, mechanical engineering and metal­lurgical engineering. Women war work­ers, and women who may become war workers, were particularly urged to en­roll in the new series. Most of the courses are of 15 weeks duration and are taught in the evening, three hours once a week. 
There is no tuition charge and the only cost to the students is the purchase of text books. 
The University also has announced that a graduate summer session intend­ed primarily to permit those already in the midst of graduate work to complete the hours for their degrees will be opened on June 29, coincident with the opening of the regular summer semester. 
Graduate students will he given an eight weeks' course, with classes six days a week, for which three semester hours of credit will be given. Formerly the summer session extended only six weeks. 
The attendance in the graduate ses­sion will be largely religious teachers — priests. Brothers and Sisters — with the lay students already enrolled in the work toward advanced degrees. 
Another change from the practice of former summer sessions will be the ne­cessity for the nuns to reside off the campus. Several orders have houses in South Bend and Mishawaka, and St. Mary's College and Academy.will house a number of additional Sisters for the eight-week period. 
"Limited facilities for the summer, in residence and teaching," said Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C, secretary of the Conunit­tee on Graduate Study, "also have caused a limitation of the number of departments in which graduate work will be offered to the following: biology, chemistry, economics, education, Eng­lish, French, history, Latin, philosophy, and politics. 
Conferring of degrees in the gradu­ate school will take place Aug. 19. 
The University utilized the May and June absence of students to renovate the 45 buildings for the intensive period ahead. Beginning July 1 an almost con­tinuous year-round program of three 16-week semesters will be followed by the University. 
NAMED TO FELLOWSHIP 

A. T. Cross, young instructor in biol­ogy at the University, has been named a fellow in geolog^y by the National Re­search Council in Washington. 
Professor Cross will be assigned, be­ginning in September, to studies of the practical • stratigraphic correlation of coal beds, working in the deposits in West Virginia. The honor is an out­standing one for the young teacher, who received his doctorate in June from the University of Cincinnati. 
RICE HONORED AGAIN 

J. Gregory Rice, '39, now a chief spe­cialist in the United States Maritime Service, was doubly honored on May 5 at a dinner for him in New York City: he received the New York Track Writ­ers' award as the" outstanding track performer of the 1943 Indoor season and the medal of the New York Athletic Club Veterans Association as the year's outstanding contributor to track and iield sport. 
Greg has again been much in the news and picture spotlight in recent weeks as the leading competitor of Gunder Haegg, Swedish runner now in this country. 

KENNEDY NAMED PUBLICiiy HEAD 
J. Walter Kennedy, of Stamford, Conn., has been appointed as director of athletic publicity of the University by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president. Walt succeeds Lieut, (j.g.) Joseph S. Petritz, '32, USNR, who entered the Navy last February after an outstand­ing sports publicity career at Notre Dame dating from his graduation. 
Walt was a journalism graduate of Notre Dame with the class of 1934. He wrote publicity for Century of Progress,^^ Chicago, in its second year, was publicity' writer and social worker for the Stam­ford, Conn., Community Chest, and spent two years as athletic director and head football coach of St. Basil's prepara­tory school in Connecticut. 
Entering the publishing field, Walt represented Macmillan for three years and at present is completing two years as eastern representative of the Loyola Press, Chicago. 
Adding to his sports background is an early start, in 1929, writing publicity for the world's champion girls' basket­ball team of Stamford. In 1936 Walt also coached and promoted professional basketball in New York City and in Connecticut. Since 1939 he has been president of the Stamford Baseball league and has acted as scout for several big league organizations and for the International league. Since 1935 he has been an official in football, baseball and basketball in Connecticut. 
Postgraduate work at the New York School of Social Work, Coltmibia and Yale universities has filled out Walt's educational background. 
On A c Notre Dame campus he was editorTO the Santa Maria, K. of C. pub­lication, and active on the Scholastic and Dome staffs. Walt is married and has two boys, David, 22 months, and Robert, five months. He will begin work at Notre Dame July 1. 
CHESTERTON'S POEM PRINTED 

A beautifully designed and decorated page containing G. K. Chesterton's poem, "The Arena," is on sale by the Aquinas Library and Book Shop, 110 East La Salle St., South Bend, at 25 cents a copy. It is suitable for framing in the stand­ard size, 9 X 12. The verses are in black against a blue background with the golden dome surmounting the whole. 
Alumni will recall that Chesterton wrote the poem and dedicated it to Notre Dame on the occasion of his lecture ser­ies at the University in 1930. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Centenary Fund, Alumni Participation 
(Jan. 15^6 June I, 1943) 

(N.B. Following are all the recorded contributions to the Centenary Fund of the University of Notre Dame from alumni from Jan. 15 to June 1. Some have been acknowledged by name or amount before. Some of these came direct to the Alumni Association. Others came through the President of the University. Many came through the office of J. Arthur Haley, Director of Public Relations. The list is a compilation of all of these, to gauge the ex­tent of alumni participation. Many of the gifts listed do not represent actual Centenary contributions of the individual but are contributions in lieu of dues during this Centenary* year and as such entitle the contributor to listing. They may be added to at any time, and the Alumni Board.sincerely hopes that the number of alumni contributors will be greatly increased when the complete report of contributions is published in July.y 
Oelerich. Joseph F„ '09 4.00 Rohan. Howard J. — 53.00 Kenney, John E. 50.00 
Prior to 1890 
Sexton, Dr. Elmer E. . 5.00 Leslie. Humphrey L. 5.00 Cullen, John T., '7' 500.00 (22) S5.30S.00 Snyder. Henrj- B. 3.00 Murphy, Francis J. „ 3.00 Hale, ITiomas, '79 Wells, March F. 1.00 Powers, John C . Jr. . 5.00 
1910 

(Additional) 5.00 2.00 
Uebbing, Albert 

Connell, James J. S 10.00 
Fendrich, J. H., *85 5.00 (12) S 179.50 Ward. Leo B. 5.00 Boland, Francis H., '87 2.00 
Dolan, Samuel K. 1.00 
Rothert, Hugo C . 'S7 — 15.00 Finnegan. Wales E. 5.00 1916 
(8) 82.00 Ruffing. Charles E., '87 ._ 
10.00 Janszen. Lawrence J. 1.00 Beckman, Edward J. 5.00 
1.00 Lynch. Edwin J. 10.00 Cermak, Jerome F. 10.00 1921 Moriarty. Rev. Michael L. Delph, Dr. John F. 5.00 Conrad. Raymond J. 10.00 
Morrison, Vincent E., '89 . 
(Additional) 10.00 Flynn, Joseph P. __ 5.00 Drasek, Otto J. 5.00 
Hayes, Thomas A. 2.00 Grant, Donald C. (Additional) 6.60 1890-99 (6) $ 37.00 Lauerman, Frank J., Jr. . 5.00 Kasper. Thomas C. 2.00 Hanley, John M., '90 10.00 Meuser. 'William B. 1.00 Nyikos, Stephen F. 2.00 
a) S 53S.O0 
1911 

Fitzgibbon. James R., '92 10.00 Muchermann. Richard C. 6.00 Tillman, Joseph L., Jr. 5.00 
Freeze. Chester D. -5 5.00 
McCarthy, Frank, '94 1.00 Nigro. Dr. D. M. 5.00 
Hebenstreit, Anton R. 5.00 
CuHinan, Eustace. '95 .. 5.00 Odem, James F. . 10.00 (6) 30.60 
Hope. James L. __ 5.00 
3.00 Murphy. Joseph B. 5.00 1922 
Davis. Frank W., '95 2.00 Turner. William W. 
Smith. Oscar F., '95 5.00 
Pick, Carl _ 10.00 Ashe, (jerald A. 
Barton, Dr. Francis W., '96 _ 5.00 (11) $ 58.00 
Whitty, Elmer J. _. 5.00 (Additional) 25.00 
Honahan, Dr. Edward C. '96 5.00 
Wrape. Alba H. _ 5.00 1917 Bloemer, Frank B.. Jr. 
Wunier. Louis C . '96 30.00 Bums, Dr. Robert J. —'• _S 25.00 (Additional) 10.00 
Quinn, James B., '97 150.00 
(7) $ 40.00 Haberer, Bernard V. _ 10.00 Coughlin. Daniel M. 25.00 
— Walsh. William A. '97 5.00 

1912 Hayes, James D. _ _ 1.00 Farley, Capt. Joseph H. 25.00 
_ . 5.00 Foren. James S., Jr. 
Kelly, Thomas C. 

(U ) $ 228.00 Dockweiler, Thomas A. J. __5 5.0D Kiernan. Frank A., Jr. . __ 1.00 
(Additional) 10.00 

Kaiser, Benedict J. 5.00 
1900-04 Mahaffey, Frederick L. ~ -_ 125.00 Hanrahan. Lt. Vincent J. 10.00 
McGlynn, Joseph B. 
Heneghan, George F. 

McDonald, W. Breen _ 5.00 McOsker, Edward J. -_ 2.00 (Additional) 4.00 
Sheils, Joseph P., '00 5.00 (Additional) _—_ 250.00 
Slevin. J. L. Spaldine. '00 3.00 ._ 100.00 
Miller, Bernard H. _ 5.00 Hirschbuhl. Charles J. 1, 000.00 
Halpin, George. '01 5.00 (Additional $1,000 pledge) 
Bauman, E. Walter, '02 100.00 Rush, Paul 5.00 
Reagan, Charles M-_ __ 205.00 Hubert Urban 3.00 
Russell. Leon T. -— _- 3.00 Huether, John J. 10.00 
Cbrley, John L., '02 5.00 Weeks, Edward J. _ 5.00 
Sackley, Rigney J. _ 25.00 Lovett, Leo J. 3.00 McDermott, Paul LDukette, Francis F.. '02 ._ 27.00 
Shea, John C. _ 25.00 
Quinn. Clement K., '02 _ _ 5.00 (6) $1,270.00 
Sullivan, Dr. Marion F. . _ 10.00 (Additional) 225.00 
Hughes, Francis B., '03 ._. 5.00 
1913 

Walsh, James R. „ 25.00 Mudd. Fabian T. 2.00 
Kanaley, Byron V., '04 .400.00 
Byrne. Joseph M., Jr. _ -S 500.00 
Hullins, Leo F. 100.00 

Welch, Lawrence J. — _ _ 5.00 
(Balance, $500 pledge) Corcoran, Dr. William J. 

Yockey, Claude R. ™ _ 10.00 Rice, John M. (Additional) 7.00 
Proctor, Robert E., '04. __ 50.00 
(Additional) -_ 10.00 
Schnettler. Herbert R. 2.00 

($300 pledged) 
Fifypntrifk, Ke^no 5.00 
(17) $ 489.00 Scott, Alfonso A. 10.00 Hanlon, George T., Jr. 
Shea, Robert D. 30.00 

(9) S 857.00 1918 
100.00 
Shilts, Walter L. 28.00 

1905-09 Hayes, C. Byron _ 6.00 Brown. Clarence H. _$' 5.00 
Smith, Clarence R. 5.00 

Hogan, William N. _ 5.00 Giblin, Vincent C. „ _ 30.00 
Jamieson, William D., '05 Stewart, Joseph 5.00 
Rebillot, Lawrence J. . 5.00 Hoban, Thomas J. _ 25.00 
(Additional) ,S 50.00 Wynne, Chester A. 5.00 
Hurley, Francis J. _ 25.00 
O'Connor, Daniel J., '05 _ 5.00 Young, Daniel H. (Additional) 25.00 
(7) $ 631.00 La Fortune, Joseph A. -—l.OOO.OO 
Stevens, Walter-A., '05 _ _ 30.00 Zwack, Clarence A. 1.00 
Lemmer. John A. _ 20.00 
Welch, Thomas J., '05 _ 10.00 1914 Mayer, Leonard F. -_ 1.00 
Cosgrove, Terence B., '06 . o.OOO.OO Clements, Walter L. _S 25.00 (17) $1,590.00 
O'Connor, Earl T. _ 10.00 
(balance. $10,000 pledge) Dundon. Dr. John R. __ 11.00 
1923 

Rodriguez, Dr. Rene -_ 2.00 
Lally, Thomas A. E., '06 , 5.00 Farrell, Simon T. _ 25.00 
Starrett. E. Morris _ 1.00 Chapla, John P. _S 10.00 
Madden, Thomas J.. '06 ... 1.00 • Kane, Eugene A. __ 5.00 
Cooney, Ralph M. _ __ 10.00 

McCarthy, Frank A.. '06 . 5.00 McGough. Edw. W. _ — 5.00 
$1,119.00 Disney. Francis X. __ 5.00 
(9) Ficks, Albert, Jr. _ _ 5.00 
McFarland. Ale-N W., '06 . 1.00 Miller, Raymond T. „ -_ 5.00 
Oberst, Albert B., '06 5.00 Vaughn, Charles L. „ _ 15.00 1919 Galvin, Frank J. __ 25.00 
Jordan, James D., '07 5.00 Walter, M. Emmett _ _ 50.00 Carroll, Maurice J. 5.00 
Holmberg, Bruce . 25.00 

Moore, John E., '07 25.00 Kiley, Philip J. 1.00 
Kiley, Roger J. (Additional) 100.00 

Callicrate, Dominic L., '08 '10.00 (8) $ 141.00 Alaloney. W. Joseph 1.00 
Lieb, Thomas J. 5.00 

Cpparo, J. A., "08 5.00 1915 Meyer, Joseph A. 3.00 
"Lynch, Daniel D. 3.00 Johnson, Charles H., '08 5.00 Bartholomew, Norman C. .. 5.00 Mullen. William P. 2.00 
Martin, James R. 30.00 Berger, Alvin 3.00 3.00 
Parish, Varnum A., '08 .-5.00 Overton, Charles F. 
Neff. CSrril W. '. 2.00 

Sinnott. Joseph D., '08 5.00 Kelleher, William A. Suttner. Joseph M. _
5.00. 5.00 
Patterson. Georsre A. 5.00 

Weiss, Henry E., '08 100.00 Kuhle. Albert A. 2.50 
Randall, Thomas G. 3.00 

Eanaley, John B., '09 LaJoie. Ernest P. 25.00 (T) 24.00 
Raub, Edgar J. 10.00 

(Additional) 25.00 Munger. Harold H. 20.00 
1920 Rauber, Walter F. 10.00 
Martin, Paul R.. '09 5.00 Regan, Bernard M. „ 5.00 
Hassenauer, Leo J. 5.00 Rolwing, E. Merlin 10.00 McBride, Edmund L., '09 . 2.00 Roach, Robert L. 50.00 
Hauser, Eugene. W, 5.00 Russell, Benjamin F. 2.00 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Eyan. Edwin S. 
Sexton, Dr. Daniel L. . 
Sharp, Ivan C. 
Ward. Clifford B. 
(21) 3 

1924 
Ealdus. George H. S 
Barber, Thomas W. 
Barrett, John R. 
Cava, Capt. Jasper F. (M.D.) 
Crook, William J. 
DeGurse, E. Newell 
Fannan, J. Henry 
Feltes, Norman N. 
Hodgson, Thomas H. 
Kelly, Frank W. .. 
Kreutzer, Mark G. 
Lorden, Elbridge M. 
McGinnis Francis J. ..._«....... 
Miller. Lt. Edward B. 
Nolnn Mnrk Tl 
Noonan. T. Clifford 
Novesky. Walter G. 
O'Donnell John C. ~ .. --
Rader. Walter H. 
Sheehan, Thomas J. 
Sullivan E^li^^Tird S, 
Weber, Maurice A. 
(22) S 

1925 
Hartley, John A. S 
Carfaffno, Thomas F. 
CoUiti*' niarpnrp 0 
Corcoran. John T.. Jr. 
DeCoursey, Raymond M. 
Dielmann, William V., Jr. — 
Fellner, Al. E. _ — 
Foley, Capt. Charles J. (M.D.) 
Fuite, Richard J. 
Gordon, Robert K. 
Hall. Walter D. 
Harstick. Harold J. 
Heger, Ralph F. 
Houppert. Walter W. 
Howland, Francis W. 
Hurley. William C. 
Kestin^r. Bernard G. 
(Additional) Kohout. Paul L. Layden. Elmer F. „.„_„„ Livergood. Bernard B. McFadden, Francis P. McSorley, Franklin Momsen, Reuben F. Moylan, Thomas A. O'Neil. Daniel J. (Additional) O'Toole, Edward F. Rodighero, Rudolph G. .. Sajewski, Arthur W. „ Schuh. Vincent A. Snakard. John W. .: Sobatski, Raymond J. Steel, Frank E. „ „ .._ .. Stoeckley, John F. Traynor, John P. (Additional) Whitman, John A. Wnlf, T^^t«»»- J. 
(33) S 

1926 
Bailey, Joseph A. S Broussard, Joseph E., Jr. Callahan, Edmund D Cook, Kenneth E. . — 
Coughlin, Rex*. Bernard J. — Dolmage, Dr. Georue H. Doran, Robert J Duffy, Edward J.. Jr., Dunne, Bert V Eggert, Herbert A. . Endres. John J. 
5.00 
3.00 10.00 10.00 
 310.00 
5.00 
30.00 5.00 1.00 3.00 5.00 2.00 
25.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 100.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 
258.00 
55.00 25.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 7.00 25.00 5.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 100.00 10.00 
31.00 5.00 10.00 52.00 5.00 10.00 35.00 1.00 10.00 25.00 2.00 1.00 25.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 1.00 115.00 5.00 1.00 
624.00 
10.00 50.00 5.00 10.00 25.00 3.00 10.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 

Fallon, Edward A. 
Feldpausch, Roman C. . 
Glynn, James J. 
Goepfrich, Rudolph A. .. 
Hartnett, George F. 
Hayes, Capt. 

Gerald W. (M.D.) Heintz, Charles F. Hengeshach, Vincent P. . Johnson, J. Paul Joyce, Thomas M. (M.D.) . Justin, Brother X., C.F.X. Keiser, Raymond J. Landry, Ernest L. LeBIanc, Erwin J. Marguet, Charles P. McGinley, Gerald J. . Mooney, Charles A., Jr. Murphy, Thomas J. O'Day, George P. (Additional) Ryan, John J. Sullivan, W. Wade 
(31) S 
1927 

Bednard, Thad J. „ ._ S 
Clarke. Ptiilip J 

Coogan. Lt. James H. „ _ 
Corcoran, Henry J 
Crowley, Lawrence E. 
Doyle, Frank F 

Dunn. Thomas B 
Fiehrer. Marc A. Flynn, Edward J. Foley, John A Fury, L. William . Gordon, George W. . Hagenbarth, Frank J., Jr. Halloran. William D. _ „ _ Harfy, .Tnhn H Hearden. Thomas F. Kane, Frank L. MacDonald. William S. Madden. Thomas P. 
(Additional) 

McKenna, Lt. Robert L. 
MrNellis. ,Tohn F 
Morsrhps, John F. 
O'Connor, Thomas E. . „ .. O'Keefe, William A. _____ 
Ryan. E<lwin T Sleigh. Andrew F. 
Wathen, Robert N. 
Wilhelm,  Ernest J.  
(33)  S 
1928  
Brust, Paul C.  $ 
Byrne,  Thomas  F. 
Conley.  Maurice  B 
Conmey,  James J 
Creadon.  Francis  P. 
Cross, James  A. 
Cunningham.  Edward  P. 
Davis, Albert  F. 
De Clercq, Jerome  C. 
Devlin,  James  A. 

Dunne. Capt. John F. Evans. Robert F., Jr. ' Fogerty, Lt. Robert P. Fontana, John C. (Additional) Hartley, James J. Hatch, Glenn M. . 
5.00 
25.00 3.00 5.00 
25.00 
12.50 5.00 2.00 10.00 250.00 5.00 2.50 2.00 6.00 5.00 100.00 10.00 1.00 25.00 5.00 2.00 
635.00 
2.00 15.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 50.00 15.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 
25.00 3.00 3.00 5.00 
10.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 3.00 5.00 
5.00 
1.00 
 213.00 
 1.00  10.00 . 3.00  10.00  10.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  2.00  5.00  50.00  1.00  5.00  50.00  1.00  1.00 
Hegarty. Major 

Francis A. (H.D.) __ 2.50 Hilger, Joseph P. 10.00 Hinsenkamp. Henry E. . 2.7.00 Jefferys, Hudson 13.00 Kaiser, Charles N. 3.00 Kelly, James W. 3.00 Kirwin, Joseph W. 5.00 Korzen, Bernard J. 5.00 Loeffler, Bernard T. 5.00 McClamon, Edmund F. 5.00 McKeown, Edward P. 5.00 Mitiguy, Arthur A, 3.00 Murphy, John P. I 
5.00 Nolan, Ralph L. 
2.00 O'Connor, Lt. Fierce J. _ 
5.00 Persyn, Henry A. 
5.00 Sargus, George J. 
5.00 Scheberle, Arthur J. 
2.00 5.00 
Scheuer, George A. 
2.00 
Schubmehl. Harry F. 
5.00 
Schuessler, Charles A. 
2.00 
Seidensticker, Norbert A. . 
25.00 
Sheedy. John C. 
2.00 
^heibley, Gerald A. _ 
2.00 
Simonin, Joseph R. 
2.00 
Slavin, Arthur D. 
25.00 
Smith, Russell R. . 
3.00 
Solomon, Dr. S. David _ 
10.00 
Sporl, Cyprian A.. Jr. — 
5.00 
Totten. Charles A. 
5.00 

Walsh, Vincent T. Wingerter. John J. (Additional) 20.00 Wingerter, Laurence A. . . 1.00 
(47) $ 390.50 
1929 

Angelino, Joseph S. — 2.00 Byrne. William T. 1.00 Cline, Major Virgil P. . 25.00 Colangelo. John F. 5.00 Connor, James J. 2.00 Cosgrove, John F. 10.00 Doan, Franklyn E. 5.00 Donahue. Donald M. _ 5.00 Dowdall. William P. 
(Additional) 5.00 Fahey, Edward J. 1.00 Greer. J. Walter 5.00 Hill, Lyman H.. Jr 10.00 Johnson, Karl F. 1.000.00 Kennedy, James P. 2.00 Kirby. Robert E. 10.00 Kirchner, Marcellus C 2.00 Kreis. Lt. Donald R. l.OO Lintz. Arthur J. 10.00 Mason, Aaron W. 2.00 McElroy. Lt. Paul C. 3.00 McNicholas, Thomas M. 5.00 Miller, Fred C. 1.000.00 Monroe, George U. 2.00 Moran, John F. 3.00 Nettleton, Joseph H. 2.50 O'Connor, Lt. James C., Jr. 
5.00 O'Malley. Terrence R. 
2.00 Ragen, James M.. Jr. 
5.00 Raymond, Dr. Eugene E. 
5.00 Regan, Louis J. 
5.00 
5.00 
Roach, Gerald E. 
5.00 
Schell. Oliver P'. 
5.00 
Sidenfaden, William R. 
3.00 
Stackpoole, John M. 
1.00 
Verilli, Daniel M. 
2.00 
Whalen. Joseph E. 

Zappone, Francis  L.  1.00  
(36)  $2^166.50  
1930  
Atchison,  Charles  S.  .  _S  5.00  
Beljon, Jon R.  __  3.00  
Bray, Adam J.  __  10.00  
Brennan, Karl T.  _  5.00  
Brusca, Lt. Donald D.  _  .5.00  

Cassidy, Kenneth H. Clark, Henry J. Conway, Patrick J. Costello. James C. dnningharo. Frederick L. Doyle. Lt. William F. Duke. Harold E. Enrigfat, Laurence F. Erwin. FVt George E. Frey. Henry R. Gibbons. John W. Hinsenkamp. Henry E. 
(Additional) Klefeker. Charles F. _ Lantty. Thomas F. Lawler. Thomas G. Leahy, James C. 
• Leahy. James E. I/ordi. Joseph J. Loedtke. Walter U. _ Halloy. James A. McAloon. Leo R. McDonald. James L. _ HcDougal. Thomas E. . McGee. John B. Moran, John T. . Nelson. John E. . O'Malley. George F. Peterson. Arthur E. _ Pope. George B. Ready. Francis T. Reanme. William J. Reisert. William A., Jr. Richards. Samuel E. Rooney. Francis J. Shay. Lt. George D. Shipacasse. Albert J Sieron. August T. Simpson, Harold N. Sinnott. Dr. Gerald W. . Spahr, Raymond J. 
Sprenger. Fied A. 
(Additional) Staudt. R. Zeno. Jr. Sturm, Rudolph E. Voss. John D . Welzenbach, Alois J. Williamson. James T. _ 
(49) 
1931 
Anderson. John W., Jr. Askew, James H. Beasley. Howard C. Blomstrom, Ellis T. Brieger, Earl W. 
Connors. Raymond F. Cushwa. Charles B.. Jr. Deeb. Joseph F. Desenberg. William R. Donlan. Joseph. R. Draves, Dr. Edward F. Dunne. Lt. Joseph H. . Ellsworth, Edward C. . Fisher. Clifford L. Gaensslen. Carl A, Garland. Leo B. ____;J_ Gr.llagher. James B. _ Golden. Thomas F. Gore. Robert H. Hancock. Charles F.. Jr. Hausmann. J. Hudson _ Herzog, Erston H. Kearney. Joseph J. Kendall. Robert D. 
(Additional) . Kletzly. Leo J. Lenouse. Bernard J. Long. Charles W. McCartan. Daniel B.' HcGongh. Ihomas H. McManmon. Arthur T. _ Metzger. Bert L. Hulrey. Maurice D. 
. : 2.00 
. 10.00 1.50 6.00 2.00 5.00 3.00 
. 5.00 2.00 5.00 
. lO.CW 
1.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 2.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 . 2.00 
10.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 
10.00 3.00 5.00 
10.00 2.00 5.00 
100.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 2.00 
S 319.50 
23.00 3.00 3.00 
i;.oo 
5.00 1.00 13.00 3.00 10.00 

Hulvaney.  James  L.  ­ 1.00  Terry. Walter E.  2.00  Collins, William J.  5.00  Kramer,  Tobias  1.00  
Hurray. James W. Neydon. Robert 1^ O'Brien, lA. James J. O'Connell, Henry G. O'Leary. Capt. LawrenceO'Ronrke, Tiemey A. O'Shea. Bartholomew T.  A. —  2.00 5.00 3.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 5.00  Theiscn. Lt. Cyril C. tJhlmeyer, Vance N. Watson. Clinton H. _ Weir. William G. White. Alfred B. Wright, PVt. Edward A. Yeager, Edmund N.  2.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 2.00 1.00 1.00  Dalrymple, David W, . Daly, Thomas P. Desnoyer. Harold B. —. Donnelly, John F. Dorian. John R. Dunda, Lawrence J. „ Farre:i, Lt. Allen G. _  1.00 5.00 25.00 30.00 5.00 1.00 15.00  Kranzfelder, Arthur L. Krug, Pic. George P. _, Lawton, G. Albert Hatavovsky, Francis G. McDevitt, Lt. James C Jr. Hulvaney, Anthony J. O'Brien, Bernard M.  5.00 1.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 25.00 2.00  
Radosevich. Lt. John  C. — ­ 2.00  Zimmerman,  George  W. .  3.00  Fesney. Michael A.  5.00  O'Connor,  William  J.  10.00  
Richtor. Georce A.  2.00  Ferrari,  Lt.  Otte. William  J.  1.00  
Robinson. Joseph H. Roehl. Henry J. Shively. Capt. John C. Smith, Robert L.. Jr. Sullivan, John R. Thompson, Bernard E. Tohulka, Kenneth D. Tuohy, Albert J. Wachsmuth. Frank C. Walker, Leland S. Weibler, John O. (52) $1932 Archart, George A. _ Ball, Hugh E. Bernine, William B. Blind, William C. Bosco. James A. Boyce. Raymond P. ­Brennan, Rev. Vincent P. Cass, Ensign William P. Jr. _ Cassldy, Daniel F. ~~ Christman, Norbert J. Clark. Paul D. Conaton, William R. Condon. Leonard W. Cook. Sheridan Cummings, Roger P. — Czapalski, Stanley J. (Additional) Dillon. Terrence J. Donovan. Dr. Robert E. Dunn, Joseph J. Ernest. Francis R. Ewing, Lt. Joseph H. „. Feely, Thomas P. Fox, John R. ' Gandour, Jackson Geiger, Raymond A. Glancy, Hubert J. Hitzelberger, A. Charles Hogan, William L. Johnson. Henry C. Kennedy, Joseph E. Kiolbasa, Walter A. Kuhn, J. Regis HcGinnts, Thomas M. HcKean, Joseph E. •McKevitt, Thomas L. " McNarney, Hugh J. Hooney, William E. Horeau, Eugene J. Murray, Francis L. Neville. Maurice N. Obelenus, Cpl. Stanley C. Oberkoetter, Francis F. — O'Malley, Edward A. O'Malley, Thomas A O'Neil, Vincent D. Owens, Lt. George S. Petretic. Charles J. Petzel, Herbert W. Reilly. Christopher A Rinella, Samuel J.  5.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 1.00  372.00 3.00 5.00 2.00 2.00 3.00 5.00 25.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 15.00 5.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 3.00 20.00 25.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 3.00 5.00 6.00 25.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 2.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 3.00 15.00 5.00 1.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 10.00 10.00  (65) $1933 AUK. George E. BecklenberK. Fred., Jr. .. Besso, Michael J. — Boehm, Paul F.. Boespflug, John F. Boyle, LU Paul J. Brinker, John B. Carnes, John K. — Gary. Capt, John F. (M.D.) Casey. Daniel J. _ Cawley, Francis R. Chawgo, Louis E. Cogley. Lt. Edward A.. Jr. Coyne, Eugene J. Crimmins, John M. — Dailey, Edward W. Davey. Joseph F. De Lay. Bernard M. _ De Wald, Maurice J. _ Doyle, James F. —, Draper, Donald E. Farrington, Wesley J. , Farris, Charles L. Flint, Lt. Robert J. ™ Fulton. Robert V. Galla, John J. Giorgio. Herbert P. — Gough. Edward T. Hafron, Lt. Charles P.. Jr. . Harrison, Rev. Frank J. — Hawkes. Lt. William M. Hornyak, Stephen L. Hughen. Thomas A. Hyde. Samuel Y. _ „ Joseph, Francis M. Joyce, John R. Keckich. Walter J. Klohr, Richard J. .— Kosky, Edwin S. Lottes. Edward F. McGill, James F. Mitsch, William H. ,.„ Mulville, Dr. Maurice F. Murray, John R. Naber, Capt. Raymond J. O'Brien. Allison J. . Pick, John F. Quinlan. John V. Randolph. Clare L. _ Rohrs, George H. — Ryan, Charles M. — Schaeffner, Victor J. Seeman, Paul H-Sexton. Lt. W. Lawrence Sloan, John F., Jr. Simmons, Lawrence C. Staley, Carroll A. Staley. F. Seton Stephan, Edmund A. Sullivan. Austin F. Uprichard, James E. Vogelheim. Earl L. Woods, Edward T.   374.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 2.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 25.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 3.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 15.00 10.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 .1.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 2.00 2.00 3.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 5.00  Salvatore T. (M.D.) Forrest, James J. Fransioli, Vincent G. ™~ Gallagher. Paul W. Garland. Lt. Maurice J. . Glcason, James H. Gorman, John P. Green, William W. Crimes, Thomas R. Hagen. Lowell L. Hanley, John J. Hayes, John C. Hennessy, David B. — ~ Hcgan, James H. Holland, Emmett J. Horrigan, Joseph E. —.­Kelley, Robert K. Kennedy, James W. Kiep, Edwin J. Kiple. John E. Kol'j. Robert J. Kroeger. John W. Land, John B. Lewis, William F. McLaughlin, John J. „ Meyers, Sgt. Melvin G. . Morrissey. Raymond J. . Mullen. Richard W. Munn, James C. O'Brien, Edward J., Jr. . O'Brien, James J. O'Connor, John J., Ill O'Melia. Thomas H. Pavlik. John F., Jr. Philbin, Pvt. Edmund P. . Pugliesc. Anthony J. Rogers, Ralph E. (Additional) Saleh, Albert E. Schenkel, Norbert J. Smith, Joseph A. Straub, Walter J. Toomey; Francis J. Vitt. A. Francis Walsh. David M. Ward, Robert E. V/iedl. Michael F. Zimmerar, Carl E. (60) $1935 Argus, Cpl. Joseph H. Baker, John A. Batcheller. Lt. Clyde C. Basinger, John J. Bracken. Ensign Edward A. Braymer, John R. Dried, Dr. Edward A. Brookmeyer, Frederic R. Burger, Clare B. . Coen, William M. Conrad, Arthur L. Crowley, Anthony W. Edwards, Lt. John R. Flynn. Thomas W., Jr.  15.00 S.OO 2.00 5.00 2.00 2.99 2.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 1.50 1.00 25.00 2.00 5.00 3.00 3.00 5.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 105.00 3.00 3.00 5.00 2.00 3.00 1.00 10.00 5.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 22.50 2.50 S.OO 2.50 5.00 1.00 2.00 10.00 2.00 2.00 1.00  443.04 5.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 e.oo 1.00 10.00 25.00 5.00  Owen, lliomas B. Petrillo, Lt. August P. Proctor, TTiomas G. — Rouleau, Roland A. — Schiralli, Rocco V. Scholz, Dr. Roy O. Seymour, James E. — Shanahan. Robert £. Thompson, Thomas W., Jr. . Van Huisseling, Edward J. . Vairo, Dominic M. Verbanc, John J. Vukovich. Francis J. Wackerman, Adrian J. Weber. Carl W. (48) $1936 Baur, Adelbert C , Jr. .. _SBernard, Robert F. Belmont, Roman P. Binder, George A. __Brady, Lt. John C. (M.D.) Bray, John F. Cavanaugh, Robert W. . Church, August J. Cook, Robert F. Donly, John C. Dutton, James J. „ Epler. Edward P. _ Farrell. William J. . Flannery, Cpl. William E. Goldman. Sgt. Erwin L. ._ Grubb, Henry W. Hansman, Capt. Louis H. Hickey, Dennis J.. Ill Hmurcik, Joseph P. (Additional) Hufnagel. Sgt. Andrew D. . Johnson, Norman L. Joyce, Francis M. Kirby, Lt. Edward S. Lehan, Lt. John P. Link, Howard C. Lounsbcrry, Lt. Eugene P. Manning, Robert A. McCabe, Robert F. McKenna, James F. McNally, Edward T. McVinney, Rev. Russell J. Murray, Lt. Francis J, Norton, John W. Novak. Stephen B. O'Connor, Michael J. O'Keefe, James C. Ott, Joseph N. Palkovic, Lawrence S. Palumbo, Lt. Leo J. .. Pieroni, Charles M. _ Prendergast, Lt. Joseph P. Rubeck, Rev. Benedict L.. O.F.M.C. Schmidt, Lt. Joseph W. Schrenker. Ensign Paul E. Shaffer. Capt. John F. (H.D.) Sihr, Lawrence F.  25.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 20.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 1.00  248.00  10.00 2.00 5.00  1.00 10.00 3.00 10.00 10.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 15.00 25.00 2.00 10.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 10.00 1.00 10.00 1.00 25.00 5.00 2.00 10.00 25.00 1.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 S.OO 2.00 2.00 2.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 5.00  
Roney, Richard T. Ruffing. Cornelius J. (Additional)  2.00 25.00  1934  (63)  $  268.00  Gallagher, Thomas F. Glenn, James J. Hoffert, Sgt. William  G.  5.00 5.00 1.00  Siddall, Ensign James J. Simmons, Robert F. Swords, James D.  ,  5.00 5.00 1.00  
Salvaty, Benjamin B.. Jr. Scanlon, Capt. John M. ... Simmons. James W., Jr. _ Sitek, Sg t Joseph P. Staunton, John J. Sullivan, Richard T.  1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 4.00 5.00  Burchell, Harry M. —SBurke, John C. Canino, John J. Carey, Thomas E. -Caulfield, Joseph A. . Clauder, John E. (Additional)  2.00 2.00 2.00 10.00 1.00  2.00  Holahan, John F. Tsselmann, George L. Kelleher, Wade P. Kennedy, William A. Klaiher. Robert J. Klima. William J. .  2.00 I.OO 1.00 1.00 5.00 2.00  Theis, Capt. Edward F. Themes, Matthew J. Tobin, Eugene E. Voorde, Edward F. Wallensach, Maurice F. Wentworth, Ensign George  R.  2.00 1.00 2.00 2S.O0 1.00 1.00  

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Whitaker. John  P.  Cruice,  Lt.  Timothy  J.  1.00  Da  Fra,  Sgt.' Lnioo  L.  2.00  Bereik, Capt. Joliaa  W.  
(Additional)  —  362.50  Currier,  Donald F.  5.00  Deane,  John  J.  I.OO  Bernard, Sgt. David J.  _  
Wolf,  Ceorse  M. (Additional)  15.00  Dark,  Lt. Melville  E. _  1.00  Demer,  Louis  J­ 10.00  Blagi, Lt. Francis W.  _  
Di  Matteo,  A.  .  .  __  5.00  Denton.  Albert  G.  1.00  Blake. Lt. Robert W.  _  
(53)  Doozan,  Lt.  Carl  W.  Doyle,  John  T. (Additional)  5.00  Boisvert, Lt. Harold V. _  
1937 Bailey, Lt. William J. (M.D.)Bernard, Ralph L. ... Bride. Sgt. Allen F. Coyle. Lt. John J. —. Cronin, Robert J. Fox, Lt. Edward A. FroninK, J. Fendall Garland, Laurence R.Gillespie, EnsiKH Basil G. •Gillespie, John A. Groean, Lt. Robert L. Hartz, Bernard F Heatherman, Ensign K. Joseph Jordan, William V. Kalman, C. Joseph Kelly. Francis P. K("lly Cp] John v.. Kennedy, William J. Kins, Karl G., Jr. Kirk, Wilfrpd B. Koehler, Harry F. Lattimcr, Kenneth C. Ling, Eugene F. McCann, Justin C. —~ Mclnerny, Matthew R. McMahon, Joseph P. Neaher, Edward R. Nienaber, Walter J. Nolan, James J. . O'Boyle, Pvt. Anthony F. O'Donnell, James T.Fojman Henry F. Peter, F.mil J Puryear, Robert E. Reilly. Bernard F. Schmidt, Steven J. SchmeWe, Robert J Schwartz, Pvt. Albert J. Sloan, Alexander L. Waldron, James A Wallach, John M Weiss, Lawrence L. Willick, Leo M.  S  .. .  25.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 10.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 2.00 25.00 5.00 2.00 10.00 1.50 3.00 11.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 2.00 2.50 1.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 3.00 2.00 10.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 10.00  5.00 Duncan. J. Walter, Jr. __. 25.00 Fiedler, Raymond E. .. . 20.00 Fortino, Paul F 5.00 Fox, Ensign John P., Jr. . 5.00 Fny, I.t ThnniTiQ p 25.00 Gallin, William H. Jr. 6.00 10.00 H::rd3rt, Thomas A. .. 15.00 Head, John I 3.00 2.00 Hess, Lawrence G 10.00 Howard, George C. 3.00 Jehle, John L. „. 5.00 Johnson, George W. 2.00 Kavanaugh, Edward S. 10.00 Kaveny. William F. 1.00 Keencn, George E., Jr .­10.00 Kennedy, Maurice J. 10.00 Kinderman, Edwin M. 2.00 10.00 Kolp, Charles A., Jr. 5.00 Kowalski, Edmund S. 2.00 Kuharich, Lt. Joseph L. 10.00 Lahey. Capt. James H. 1.00 Lamberto, Lt. R. N. .. 10.00 Laure, George R. 2.00 Leonard, Robert P. ­5.00 10.00 Lungren, Dr. John C. 50.00 MacDougald, Carleton G. 1.00 Magee, Jerome B. 25.00 Masterson, Ensign Christopher R. 1.00 Mathey. William J. 2.00 Mattingly, Sgt. Edward J. 1.00 Maurin, Ernest P., Jr. 3.00 McCarthy, William P. . . . 2.00 McGrath. Robert A. 1.00 McKendry, ,Tohn C 5.00 Mullen, Ensign Robert J. 10.00 Mnrrin, .Tnhn TV, 10.00 Nolan, Ensign William H. 25.00 O'Brien. Yeoman Thomas W. 10.00 0*ConneII, Martin J., Jr. 10.00 20.00 Pope, Ralph L. 1.00 Pupils, Andrew J. ,. . 1.00 1.00 Quinlan, Ensign Thomas F. (Additional) 20.00 Radigan, Thomas J. 5.00 Rcardon, Bernard S. 26.00 Scherer, Otto E. 7.00  Englehart, Lt. Charles J. Fagan, Bernard J.. Farrell. Edward G., Jr. Fitzsimmons. Lt. Robert E. — Foster, Harvey G. Frcnsioli, Francis P. Gallagher. Robert J. Haggerty, John M. Harrington, Joseph H. Herrick. William R. Heywood, Robert B. Hildebrandt,, Sgt. Hugo J. Istanovic, Arthur L. Jaeger, John F. Johnson, Walter H. Kelley, Capt. Paul K. _ Kelly, Ensign Francis B. Kristan, Julius R. Lacroix, Lucien J. Lardie, Howard L. Lauck. Francis J-La Vigne, Ernest F. Le Roy, Bernard F. Maes, Lt. Arnold A. Mahoney, Lt. (j.g.) William P. Malesh, William H. Maurello, Marion J. McDermott, Lt. Edward G. (Additional) . McDermott, Joseph E. _ McEnearney, Alfred B. . McGuire, John A. Metzger. Charles J. Meyer, James 6. Mitchell, Mark J., Jr. _ Morris, George B. Morrison, Lt. Paul E. — Murphy, Dr. Daniel M. . Nagel, Carl J. Neumann, George J. — O'Connor, John C. O'Hara, John F. O'Shea. Patrick R. Penrose, Lt. James H. Pfaff, Francis R. Radelet. Sgt. Louis A. Reppenhagen, Ensign Francis A.. IV Ricke, William H. Riley, Dr. Charles R. Sadowski, Pvt. Chester P. . Scarlata, Salvatore P.  I.OO 6.00 2.00 2.00 3.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 3.00 10.00 2.00 10.00 3.00 I.OO 2.00 1.00 10.00 1.00 I.OO 90.00 3.00 21.00 25.00 .1.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 2.00 I.OO 5.00 3.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 I.OO 5.00 3.00 5.00 25.00 2.00 5.00 3.00  Bond, Nathaniel Boorke, Sgt. Norman P. . Bozicfa, Samuel S. Brown, James G. Browning, John T. Bums. William G. Cannon, 'William J. Cenni, Lotus J., Jr. Ciolino, Lt. Francis 'V. _ Cbbb, Charles L. Corgan, Michael H. Cbstellp, Q>l. George K. . Crawford, Bernard K. Commings, Ensign Joseph P. Cnrrsn, Lt. James E. Daogherty, Philip V. Delahanty, Edward L., Jr. (Additional) Dillon, Ensign John C , Jr. Dillon. Pfc. William R. Dolce, Russell J. Donnelly, Christopher J., Jr. Dray. Walter L. Engel, Henry K. Ernest. Pvt. Francis J. Flanagan, John C. Flood, Paul J. Gavao, Ensign John D. Geary. Lt. Cornelius E., Jr. .. Geddes. William Henry Gerwe, Joseph J.. Jr. Gilliland. Donald R. Gilrane, John J. Golden, Ensign Philip E. Gonring. Lt. Matthew N. Habecker, Enugn Edward E. Hackman, Paul W. Haggerty, Capt. George G. — Halpin, Ensign William F. Henebry, Capt. John P. Hickey. Paul E. Hooffstetter, Robert T. Howard, Lt. Robert I. Huston, Edward A. Hatcfains, Charles K., Jr. . Joyce, John J. Joyce, Sgt. William L. Kelly. Lt. Richard B. _ Kelleher, John C. Kenny, Jaroes N. Klein, Howard A. Laughlin, Daniel P. Linnehan, John J.  
1938  (47)  S  227.00  Sixsmith, William L. Smith, Dr. Eugene J Tallman. Clifford P.  2.00 1.00 25.00  Schirf, Lt. Robert P. (Additional) Schmidt, Daniel C.  28.00 15.00  Mack. L t John E. Haher, Ensign Edward J. . Mathey, Cpl. Joseph R.  
Anderson, Lt. Paul H.  Terry,  Charles  P.  5.00  Schroeder, Harry J.. Jr. .  I.OO  Mnthiea, Edward J.  
(Additional) Anton, John F.  12.00 5.00  Tharinger, Robert H. Thompson, Richard J.  5.00 1.00  Shea. Thomas M. Short, Walter J.  2.00 5.00  Matthews, Edward K McParland. Patrick F.  
Armel, William B.  10.00  Tobin, John L.  2.00  Sisk. Pvt. Frederick E.  1.00  Mclntyre, Lt. John A. —.—  
Barrack, Roger G. —.. Bauer. Burnett C.  1.00 I.tlO  Uniacke, Capt. Edward A. Valetich, Lt. Francis F.  2.00 20.00  Stubbelfield. Edward M. Sullivan, Bernard J.  5.00 5.00  McKenna, Thomas J. McKenna. William S.  
Beer, Sgt. John J. (Additional) Belanger, Cpl. George O. Boyle, Daniel E. Brennan, Ensign Edward J. .. Brogger, Lt. George J. Erosius, Charles T. Bryan, Dr. Robert J. Buckley, John L. Burnell, Maximilian Callaghan, Sgt. John A.  30.00 2.00 1.00 3.00 10.00 3.00 2.00 27.00 3.00 5.00  Weaver. Robert C _ Welch. Leo F., Jr. _ Williams. Sgt. Harold A. Winter, Francis J. (90) ;1939 Akolt, Lt. John P. Armel, Thomas N. Bakes. John W. _  1.00 15.00 5.00 2.00  730.00 2.00 2.00 25.00  Sullivan, John D. Tonsmeire. Julian C. "Von Hoene. Edward A. „ Wachter, Ralph P. Walker, Lt. Iliomas A. Walsh, Cpl. John E.. Jr. Waters, Lt. William H., Jr. _ Zinn, Eugene R. Zuendel, Joseph C. (79) t 5.00 5.00 I.OO 4.00 3.00 2.00 10.00 2.00 2.00  507.00  McManus. Sgt. Robert R. — McQueen, James R. McVay, William P. Me::ney, John W. Milford. George J. _ _ Miltner. IVancis H. Hinogue. Thomas J. ^ Moore, James T. : Morgan, John B. Morrissey, Ck>l. William J. Morphy, Francis J.  
Callahan, Capt. Joseph A. (AdditionnI) Clouse, Michael P., Jr. Anonymous Corcoran, Joseph M. .— Cottingham, John C. — Crowe, Lt. Emmett H.  35.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 3.00  Barnett. Ensign Thomas C.­Bennett. Charles R. Bossort, Thomas R. Bradley, Major Francis' X. Brennan, William J. Clifford, James A. . .™ Colgan, Charles J.  1.00 5.00 1.00 25.00 3.00 10.00 1.00  1940 Allaire, Royal F. Anderson, Edgar H. Armitage, Henry G. Aubrey, Pvt. Francis Y. . Barreda, Lt. P. G.  2.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 10.00  Noonan, Lt. Maurice E. Norris, Hsrty L. Oberbruner, Pvt. KennethO'Brien. Lt. Charles J. O'Brien, Sgt. John J. O'Donnell. Hugh K. O'Goman. Kevin M.   L.  

S.0O 1.00 S.o6 • Z.0O 
5.00 
2.0O 
2.00 " 1.S0 5.00 
10.00 I.OO I.OO 
1.00 2.00 5.00' 
-1.00 
2.00 . 5.00' 5.00 
1.00 

S.0O 
I.OO 
10.00 2.50 2.00 3.00 2.00 2.00 I.OO 1.00 2.00 I.OO 5.00 5.00 2.00 3.00 
.3.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 
10.00 5.00: 1.00 2.00 2.00 1.00 
25.00 I.OO 
10.00 5.00 1.00 2.00 
2.00 lO.OO 1.00 
I.OO 2.00 5.0O \ 1.00 2.00 25.00 .I.OO 25:00 
5.00 ' 5.00 
25.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 
20.00 1.00 I.OO 
, S.0O­



S.0O-­
2.00 
1.00: l.OOr 5.00'. 5.00' 5.00 
10.00 1.00 5.00 I.OO 

20  Th e  Notr e  Dam e  Alumnu s  
O'Meara. Set. Edward F. .„ Philpott. Capt. Thomas M. ­ 10.00 3.00  John, Harry G. Joyce. John L.  Jr.  50.00 5.00  1942  Peters, John T. Pitkin, Sgt. Carroll P.  2.00 5.00  
Pinelli. Roy W. , Quinn, Cpl. Carl E. . Ratalske, Medard F. Reddy, John J. Rcilly. Peter J. RoRers, John F. RosanelU. Edward G. Santini. Lt. Leo A. -Savord, John E. Sas-ia, L t Robert F. Schultz. Lt. Robert J. Skelly. Joseph W. Spencer. P\'t. Norbert J. Sullivan. Lt. James H. — Sullivan, Robert G. Thesinpr, Joseph R. Tieman. Robert J. Toyne. Francis W. Warburton. Walter K. _ . Weilbacher, Lt. Charles O. Wicks. William R. Willmann. John B. Wilson, George P. Wilson. John E.  5.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 2.50 1.00 1.00 5.00 2.00  Justen. Cpl. Daniel A. Kane, John J. ™ Kelly. Yeoman Edward J. _ Kennedy, Lt. Francis B. — Kenney. Ensign Robert J. Kerger. Lt. Adolph E. Kerrigan, Ensign John R. — Koch, Robert J. Kralovec, Ensign Donald E. Landrj*. George T. Larson. John \>. Lawler. Joseph V. Link. Francis C, MacCarry. Pvt. Noel J. _ Mallek. P\t. Anthony J. Malaney, William C. Maloney, John L. Manix. Joseph C. McCarthy, Daniel E. McCaughey, Michael J. _ McDonnell, Patrick F. _. McDowell. David L. McFarland. Pvt. Philip R. „ McGowan, Lt. William C.  10.00 10.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 . 10.00 3.00 5.00 2.00 2.00 1.00 2.00  Allen. Robert J. Angelakos. Diogenes J. Berko, Lawrence Burby, Ensign Leo J. . Busse, John E. Byrne, Matthew A. (Deceased) Carr. Michael J. Caston. Ralph H. Cavalero. Howard G. Clifford, Lt. John H. Corcoran, Lt. Victor F. , Cordes. Walter J. Cullinane. Lt. Daniel J. Dahnl. Henry L. De Lois. Sgt. Jess F. Dickson. Edward J. Dillon. Pvt. Thom?s E. „ Dinges, Lt. John F. _> Doyle. Samuel J. Fagan. Rol>ert J. , Fallon. William J. Fankijoner. Robert C. .— — Finneran, Rolicrt F. .  1.00 3.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 5.00 10.00 S.OO 1.00 2.50 2.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 1.00  Pollnow, Ensign Francis J. . Pope, Ensign Arthur AV. — Raaf, Ensign Robert H. Rabbett, Ensign Gerald J. .. Reichenstein. Jacob M. Rice, James J. Richards. Floyd F. Rossi. Ugo D. Ruppe, Richard V. Schroer, Gerhard J. Sheedy, John A. Shields. Joseph M. Sommers. Armiger H. Storek. Henry E. Sullivan, Edward J. Sullivan. Miss Nora R. Treacy, John E. Wack, Paul E. Walsh, Thomas A Walters,- Cpl. Julian R. . Westenberger, George L. Wojcik, Bernard P. Wolfe, Leonard H. Wright, Robert E.  10.00 3.00 2.00 1.50 1.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 3.00 S.OO 10.00 1.00  
Witchger, Robert W. Wuebbold. Walton J.  10.00 2.00  McGroder. Lt. Francis J., Jr. Miholick, Lt. Matthew J.  20.00 2.00  Fitzgerald. Robert M. Fitzharris. Thomas J. _.  S.OO S.OO  Zimmer. Pvt. Harold E. .  1.00  
Wurtzebach, Ensign Edward P. (Additional) . (117) S1941 Ayhvard, James P. Bairley, Cpl. Roy J. Barry, John W. Baum, Lt. William A., Jr. Behe, Lt. Francis J. Boyle. Lt. Robert W. Bracken, Lt. Lawrence H. . Brady, Ensign Wade J. Brogger, Charles C. Brownfield, Paul W. Bums, Lawrence A. Bums, Pit. Robert E., Jr. Carroll, James P. Comins, Francis H. Corbett, James J. CunnifT, Charles L. Curtis, James B. Deal, Elvin J. De Lay, Paul R. Dereume, Ensign August J. .. Dominic, William W. Dougherty. Lt. Charles T. Duffy, Maurice J. Fallon, Robert J. Farrell, Cpl. Eugene R. Fazzi, George B. Fegan, Ensign Walter W. Ferguson, Homer AV. Fericks, Alfred J. —~-Gagan. William D. Gainer, Charles D. Gaither. Ensign John F. Gero, John B. Gerra, Ensign Ralph A. Conner. Lt. James A. ™ Grady, Ensign Thomas F. Graham. Edward A. Greene, George W. Grobmyer. Lt. John C. Guiltinan, Joseph P. Haller, Ensign Edward H. Hamel. Philip J. Hanly, Ensign Edward J. Heckler, Norman B, Heinzen, Cpl. Anthony C. „ Holl, Ensign Frederick N. Horgan, Lt. Thomas G. Buck, Pvt. Thomas E. Hultgren, Edward L. Ingwersen, Martin L. Jacques, C. Edward  5.00  486.50 20.00 1.00 5.00 1.50 10.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 10.00 1.00 10.00 25.00 1.00 2.00 10.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 1.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 3.00 5.00 10.00 3.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 2.00  Moncrief, David B. 1.00 Moulder, Lt. William A. 5.00 Nace, John F. 5.00 Necas. Ensign Emmett J. . 5.00 O'Brien. Lt. John J. 5.00 Odenbach. Robert C. 25.00 0*Dowd, Ensign Jerome J, — 3.00 0*Loughlin, John F. 10.00 Oliveros, Lt. Charles C , Jr. . 10.00 Pilgrim, Lt. Thomas E. 2.00 Pinelli. Sg t Ralph R. 5.00 Pivarnik, Edward T. 1.00 Pohl. Pit. Robert E.. Jr. 2.00 Porawski, Ensign Thaddeus S. 1.00 Porten, -Edward M. 10.00 Powers, Lt. John S. 2.00 Puglia. Sgt. Paul F. 10.00 Quinn, Eugene M. 2.00 Rassas. George J. , 5.00 Reed, Lt. George D. 10.00 Reis. Ensign Thomas K. 2.00 Robidoux. Leo J, 1.00 Ryan, Eugene J. 3.00 Ryan. Jerome A. 15.00 Schaffner, Irwin J. 2.00 Schlafly. Hubert J. 10.00 Schleiser, Raymond H. 6.00 Schmidt, Cpl. Lawrence A. 1.00 Schiappacasse, Paul J. 10.00 Sievert. John W. 1.00 Speca. John M. 2.00 Stack, Robert N. 10.00 Stefanik. Ervin A. 2.00 Steidl. John R 5.00 Stclte, Ensign Francis G. 1.00 Stevens, Thomas F. 30.00 Sullivan. Daniel G. 5.00 Syring, William J. 25.00 Tally. Cl>l. Thomas E. 5.00 Teagarden. Sgt. James L. 2.00 Tomcik, Edward J. 2.00 Tormey, John F. . 5.00 Tremblay. Pfc. Norman C. — 1.00 Trueman, P\-t. Thomas J. 2.00 Walsh. James H. . 10.00 Ward. Cpl. John J. 1.00 Westhoff. Pvt. Herbert A. 5.00 White, Pvt. James A. 2.00 Wingen. William F. 1.00 Witkowski, Ensign Vernon J. 3.00 Woods, Pvt. William J. 10.00 Wrape. James D. 2.00 Ziebarth, Charles L. 10.00 (132) S 711.50  Flynn. Lt. Joseph J. _... Founjain. Lt. Robert L. Frick, Ensign James E. Fushelberger, Robert J. Gal legos. Edward F. Garvey, Ensign John J. Gilbert, Ensign John W. Goellar. Eugene T. Haas, Cpl. Joseph F Hale. Robert W. Haley, Douglas F. _ Halleck. John C. Hilgartner, Lt. Daniel E., HI Hollenhorst, Sgt. George D. Humphreys, Michael P. Hunt, Eugene F. Hutmacher, Ensign Eugene S. Imboden, Clarence A., Jr. Kanaley, Byron V., Jr. Kearney, Charles M. Keenan, Cpl. John E. _.^ Kelleher, William L. Kelley, Paul W. Kelly, Maurice S. _. Kirby, Kenneth W. ._ . Lampert, Chester S. Landers. Maurice D. ___„_ _ Le Jeune. Robert C. — Lenhard, Richard E. Lillis. Ensign Paul L. Litizzctte. Stanley V. Lohr, Charles B. Luthringer, Cpl. John L. MacDonald. Ensign Harrison T. „ Madden. Ensign William B. (Additional) _. _ Mahon, John J. Marshall, Ensign Quentin J. -Masterson, Ensign Leonard J. McDonnell, Horace J. McHugh, Richard E. McKee, Robert J. McKenna. Coe A. McNulty. James J. Metzger, Ensign Francis E. ­Meyer, Lt. John P. Miller. Walter C. Minges, William C Morrison. Thomas A. Murray. Ensign Roy E. Nash, Thomas D. ­Nelson, Charles F. . Nilles. Herbert G. Nolan, Ensign John-'H. . O'Connell, Quentin J. Paulmann. Cpl. Frederick H.  5.00 2.00 2.00 5.00 3.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 S.OO 1.00 10.00 1.00 5.00 1.00 10.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 3.00 1.90 5.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 4.00 2.60 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 27.00 10.00 2.00  (106) S 376.90 1943 Atkins, Thomas L. _S 2.00 Baker. Robert O. _ _ 5.00 Eehr, John L. _ 3.00 Bonyai. FVt. William J. _ S.OO Borghi, Louis J. __ 2.50 Brooks, Ensign Robert E. _ 4.00 Browning, Robert F. _ 1.00 Burns, Pvt. Edward Kilroe . 1.00 Byrne, James J. 2.00 Carey, William J. 2.00 Can-er, Pfc. Robert B. (Additional) 2.00 Champley, Ensign Joseph P. 5.00 Christman, Pvt. Frederick G. 15.00 Coco, Carl S. 15.00 Corrigan, Pfc­ Robert 10.00 Edwards, Arthur M. ...­. 10.00 Frye. John W. 2.00 Gilligan, John J. 100.00 Girard, Ensign James A. 5.00 Gibbons, Pvt. Joseph W. ' 3.00 Grady, Ensign William H. 5.00 Griffin. Pvt. John J. 25.00 Haley. Pvt. Francis J. 2.00 Haninger, George A. _ . 5.00 Harrigan, John L. 50.00 Hays. George O. 2.00 Heltzel. Donald T. 1.00 Holwell. Ensign Daniel E. , 5.00 Hunt, John D. 1.00 Hunter. Oliver H. 1.00 Jacob, Joseph E. 5.00 Kempf. Kenneth R. 1.00 Kleibacker. Charles J. 5.00 Leonard, Pvt; Paul T. 2.00 Linck. Leo L. 3.00 Maher. James J. 2.00 McManus. F\'t. Raymond J. 1.00 Millett, Robert M. 10.00 Moritz. Peter P. S.OO Murphy, Robert C. 25.00 Murrin. Pvt. William Z. 7.00 Nenno. Robert P. 1.00 Norris. Joseph T. 10.00 Perrj-. Thomas W. 2.00 O'Connell, Richard E. 1.00 O'Malley, John D. '' 1.00 Reagan, Pvt. Edward A. S.OO Reale. Robert J. 3.00 Roney, Edward C. 5.00 Sullivan, Leigh R. 1.00 Terheyden. William A. 3.00 Terry, John H. 1.00 Villarosa, Nicholas J. S.OO (Continued on page 24)  

The- Notre Dame Alumnus 
« «




ALUMNI CLUBS 
BUFFALO 
Henry E. Weiss, '08. 2019 Liberty Bank Bids., Pres.; Dr. Robert J. Burns, ex. '21, 418 Brisbane Bids.. Sec. 

Joe Dann had us all out at his hou?e and we elected the following new officers: president, Hcnrj- Weiss, 2019 Liberty Bank: vice-president, Joseph F, Flynn, 1150 Kenmore Ave: treasurer, Carlos Frank. 130 North Ledse Dr., Snyder, 
N. Y.: secretari". Dr. Robert J. Bums, 218 Bris­bane Bld^. 
R. J. Bums, D.D.S. 


CHICAGO 
WillUm P. K«amcy, 'Z8. 519 Cedar St., Winnetka, 111., Pres.; Thomas S. McCabe, *22, 1418 Rascher Ave., Sec. 

Notre Dame men in the Chicago area Kathered May 3 in the LaSalle Hotel for the tradHional Universal Night celebration. Although not as larjre as some of the past Universal Night cele­brations, the party was well attended and thor­oughly enjoyed by all. 
Judge Tom Hoban presided and introduced Lt. Com. Cullen, USN. Lt. Com, Oakes. USN and Lt. Donald Dillon, Chaplain USN, who gave very interesting talks regarding Na\*y life and ser\'ice in the present emergency. John Carmi­chael. sports editor of the "Daily News," gave a humorous talk regarding sports. The University was represented by Dr. John A. Sirannell, head of the Physical Education Department, who told of the various campus changes and prospects for the near future. 
Among those, attending was Lt. Fred Gabriel. now taking some special medical work at the University of Chicago. John Dorgan was the chairman of the affair and functioned in his usual commendable fashion. 
Recent information received by the club indi­cates that Sgt. Al Huter is now in Camp McCoy. Wis., and Lt. Nick Lamberto is piloting a bomber in the 1st Provisional Bomb Flight somewhere in Europe. Last reports of Lt. Com. Jim Murta^h indicated that he is some place in Cuba. 
Lt. Ray McClory, USNR, is still at Moffet Field. Calif. Lt. (i.K.) William McCarthy is stationed at Atlanta. Ga., in Naval Intelligence: Capt. Wil­liam D. KavanauKh is with the Army in Wash­ington, D. C.; Enaiirn Charles H. Carroll. '34. is in the radio communications school at Harx'ard University; Lt. (j.g.) Joe McCabe, after a tour of patrol as skipper of Cyprian Sporl's converted yacht, is now at Norfolk, Va.; William Hanley Murphy, after wintering in Florida with the Army, is now engaged in radio communications work in New York; Lt. (j-K.) Herb Burt is an instructor at the Navy airfield in Kingsville, Texas; Don Fitzserald is in the Navy, an in­structor at Purdue University. 
Arthur C. Smith of Chicago, a graduate of the University, in the class of '33, lost his life May 12 in the Chicago River while on duty with the Coast Guard. He was buried May 15 from St. Jerome's. The alumni extend sincere sympathy to his wife, two children and parents. 
Presently prominent in the prosecution of the denaturalization trial here in the Federal Court are the names of John B. Stephan, *23, and Frank McGreal, '31, both active assistants on the 
D. A.'s staff. Another N.D. man carrj-ing a big 
stick these days is Jim Lewis, '32, now chief prosecutor of OPA violations. Tom McCabe 

CLEVELAND 
John J. Reidy. *27. 1204 Guardian Bide, Pres.; Jen Bcljon,* 30, 11805 Cromwell Ave., Sec 

Our annual election took place May 12 at Chuck Rohr's restaurant. The results: Jchn J. Reidy, president; Joe Gavin, vice president: Jon Beljon, secretary; and' Ed Carey, treasurer. It was decided that the activities should be curtailed for the coming year so that a greater concentration could be directed towards the Rockne Memorial Fund; the Navy Game; the annual Lay Retrzat. and the boys in the service. 
On. M^y IS, the Rockne Memorial Mass at St. Paul's Shrine and Communion Breakfast at the University Club took place. About 100 alumni and guests were present. Clark Shaughnessy, the newly appointed University of Pittsburgh foot­ball coach and lifelong friend of Rock, was the principal speaker. Other speakers were Don Miller, district attorney, Lt. Ray CnnninchaBi, formerly of Toledo, now a naval procurement of­ficer stationed in Cleveland, (he also h^d his son along), and Father Michael Moriaiily. Dan Daffy was toastmaster. 
An unusual feature of the breakfast was the appearance of many of the sons. Jerry Miller had his twin boys. Bill Van Rooy and Chuck Mooney chaperoned their sons; Dr. Joe Hciman, now a captain in the Medical Corps, was represented by his 12-year-oId son. 
Joey Gavin, our new vice-president, was chair­man of the affair and did a swell job. Others on the committee were J. P. Canny, Bill Van Rooy, Chuck Mooney and Al Lawton. In attend­ance w^ere the following:* Johnny Butler, now* OPA chief litigation attorney; Ed HcCIamcn, just transferred here as head claim agent for Travelers; George Gordon of Fort Wayne, now with SEC here: Clayt Lcroux, personnel director at White Motor Co.; Tom Byrne, Bill Ryan. Dr. McCarthy, (oldest Cleveland alumnus). Ed Gan­non. Chuck Rchr. Ed Carey, Karl Martersteek, Gene Kane. Dr. (Dolly) Gannon, Jim Upricfaard, Al Lawton and many others. 
ELECTION REFLECTIONS 

Johnny W. Gleason, now prominent member of Council, running for judge. . . . Jon Beljon passing out cigars and announcing a tie score in his junior league—2 boys and 2 girls. . . . Larry Krai dwindling away to a shadow with-four dimensions. . . . "Geever" Gavin going great guns doubling on a defense job and coaching. . . . Bob Morrissey wondering about the golf situation this summer. . . . Bill Van Rooy, the coffee man. drinking n ^substitute—with foam on. . . . Chuck Rohr rolling out the barrel. . . . S. J. Leckowick homesick for his family; they're in Columbus. . . . Red Callahan coming in for the tail end of the meeting. . . . Tom Byrne and Clayt Leroux in a huddle on the scholarship fund. . . . Phil Prendersast still as youthful looldng as ever. . . . Gene Kane. Ed Sladcford and J. F. Gleason absorbed in a pre-meeting card game. . . . Al Lawton and Ed Carey munching pretzels in between refills. . . . H. W. Black and J. E. Miller discussing old times. 
Jon Beljon 

DaAWARE 
John J. Verbanc. *33, 1 Lincoln Ave., Tux­edo Park, DeL, Pres.;Wa]ter J. Cordes, '42, 319 W. Uth St.» Wamincton, Sec 

Dr. Thamas E. (Ed) Dillon, '42, is now super­visor of the "Gardinol" Laboratory in the Or­ganic Chemicals Department of the duPont Com­pany. Until his transfer on May 1. Ed was a member of the Miscellaneous Products research group of the Jackson Laboratory. 
DanaM K. Daffy, *39. has been transferred from the Birmingham. Ala., Ordnance Plant to Wil­mington where he now holds a position in the Rayon Department of the duPont Company. 
Lt. Edward J. Butler, *34. president of the Delaware Club in 1942. is now on active duty in North Africa according to last reports. 
Having completed his training at Columbia, Francia J. Hopkins, *41. has been commissioned nn ensign and is now stationed in Virginia. 
CoL Carlos P. Romulo, LL.D. *35. lectured in Wilmington on May 24. Col. Romulo. author of "I Saw the Philippines Fall." was an aide-de-camp of General MacArthur during the Battle of the Philip­pines and was one of the last men to leave Bataan before the surrender of the Filipino and American forces. 
Thonias F. Decnan, *42, of the Jackson Labor­atory, visited Notre Dame and friends in South Bend during the week of May 1. 
Congratulations to Ed Dillon, *42, on his en­gagement to Miss Jean Bradshaw of Wilmington. Walter J. Cordes 
DETROIT 
John W. Brennan, '27. American Blower Corp.. S32 Fidler B!dr.. Pres.; Henrr J-Clark, ex. '3*. 220 Merrill St.. Birminillain. Hiciu, Sec 

At the March meeting of the Board of Trusteas I was appointed secretary in the place of Paul Foley, who is unable to give much time to the club. 
At the February 22 meeting it was decided to publish a monthly news letter for the men in service. The committee appointed by President John Brennan to gather news, edit and mail are: Bill Fury, managing editor; John Brennan, expeditor; Mai Knaus, directory; Gil Sdiaefer, campus news; Georre Morris, Jr., finance; How­ard Beechinor, sports; Henry Clark, club news. The first news letter went out on April 5, and the response from the men was far beyond ex­pectation indicating that the men appreciate the effort. The second letter was set up for mail­ing between May 5 and 9. 
Ensign Lincoln Wurzer and Eileen Marie Bo-land were married at Sacred Heart Church in Washington. D. C , on April 30. 
The annual club retreat was held at Manresa Jesuit Retreat House on March 12 and 13 and was attenfled by 20 of the loyal members of the club, headed by Art Cronin. 
The Universal Notre Dame Communion Break­fast was held on May 2. at the Shrine of the Little Flower. Royal Oak. Mich. 
Through the generosity' and effort of Rev. Chartes E. Coachlin, LL.D. *33, and our commit-' tee chairman. Norm Fredericks, the Communion 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Breakfast was one of the outstanding activities in the history of the club. 
The Masses and Communions of 196 Notre Dame men and their wives. led by Gov. Harr>­F Kelly and David Van Wcllacz, were dedicated to the intentions of the day. 
Father Cooffalin was the complete host, defray­ing all of the expanse of the breakfast and in addition i>resenting each family with a bound copy of "The Life of the Little Flower," by Rev. Albert M. Hutting, and each woman with blessed miraculous medals. 
Father Coaghlin's sermon was directed at the 

N.D. men; he defined the N.D. spirit as being Christian Faith and Hope as lived and taught at the greatest of universities, Notre Dame. His thema: "You Can't Beat Christ." 
It has been suggested, by Bill Fur?*, thst the 

Universal Communion Breakfast be set up as the 
annual Universal Notre Dame function, replacing 
the Universal Notre Dame Night, and that it be 
held the first Sunday of May each year. It was 
also suggested that arrangements for a national 
radio hook-\:p would be easier to arrange on a 
Sunday morning. 
Heno- J. Clark 



DENVER 
Eocene S. BHSIJ, '34, 1540 Oneida St., Prcr.; John F. Connell. '23, 2545 Cherr>- St., Sec. 

Lt. Jade Akolt was married in Denver last month; last we heard Jack was still at Lowry Field. Don Alexander reports that all goes well for him at Peterson Field, near Colorado Springs. Lt- "Ardi" Archer was commissioned May 5 at Chanute Field, HI. At the time Arch wrote, he hadn't been assigned to his new post. 
From far down in the south Pacific—where ap­proaching autumn is bringing summer sports to a close (!)—comes word from USMCs 1st LI. Tom Barry that his outfit of fighting Marines, in addition to chalking up some real victories for Uncle Sam down there, took time out between more important business to w-in the baseball championship of the local island circuit. 
Lt. Chariic Caxsidy flies as CO of his dive bombing squadron at Key Field, Miss. Ensign Geary Connor, N.D.'s-man-about-Pueblo. is doing his winning now^ with the U S Navy in the south Pacific. V-mail from Geary tells us that with the help of a recent N.D. news-letter he located Tom Barry when his ship landed at Tom's far-off island; must have been some tall stories passed when those two N.D.ers met! Lt. Frank Conway has returned to California again, this time to Camp Luis Obispo. 
Cadet Tom CarriKan did his best to sell tickets (mailed to him by mistake) for Denver N.D.*s Prc-Lenten dance to his unsuspecting (?) buddies at QM CCS at Camp Lee, Va. Nice trying. Tommy. Maj. Henry Dillon is executive officer of the 29th General Hospital. Ft, George Meade. Md. Castle Rock's Pat Dillon is aboard one of the big battlewagons of the US Navy. 
Rock Ford's Joe Dann was recently advanced to Lt. (i. g.) at the USN's Aviation Base, Los Alamitos. Calif. A very welcome card from USMCs Lt. Heth Fairall indicates that he will be leaving Quantico soon and hopes to get to Denver again before reaching his next assign­ment. "Lt. "Dink" Grazier is flight instructor at Columbia, S. C and according to an earlier re­port. Dink was planning to "middle-aisle" it this month. 
C^non City's Lt- Art Gregory last wrote from Ft. George Meade with the 76th Infantry Division. Durango's AjC Jerry Ho^an is in preflight school at Sikeston, Mo. 
Lt. Harry Lawrence continues his QM officer training at Harvard. Lt. Ed Mansfield, recently commissioned in the Signal Corps, had a brand new line of stories—with the usual Mnnsfieldian touch—for the local lads during the four very busy days he spent in Denver before returning to Ft. Monmouth, N. J. Lt. Joe Nigro from Trin­idad is at Camp Ritchie, Md. 

AyC Jack O'Malley is in flight training at Fenn State Teachers Army Air Base. Clarion, Pa. Ed Owens is at the USN's foreign language school at Boulder. 
Capt. Dan Pflaum, who has teen at Mary­land's Edgewood Arsenal, is reporting to the Rocky Mountain Arsenal, near Denver. Lt. "Bud** Pogliano is battery commander of his Coast Artil­lery anti-aircraft unit somewhere in junglelands still unidentified. Joe .Ryan, recently advanced to captain, has been assigned to RAFS at Ros­well. N. M. 
Sgt. Ras3 Sabo still gets his mail at Stuttgart Air Field, Ark. CpL Art Sandusky is with the Troop Carrier Command, Stout Field, Indianapolis. SjSgt. Paul Santo is the proud pap of a fine baby girl; Paul is still instructing at Lowry. Our last address for Trinidad's Fred Sisk is Ft. Custer, Mich. . . . still there? 
USN's Ray Smith has shoved off for an un­disclosed port somewhere on the east coast of South America. Ensign Bcb Stzpp passed through Colorado recently on his cross-country trip to a new assignment as instructor at the Naval Air Station. Pasco, Wash. 
Cpl. Jf>e Stephen is with the Signal Corps and barring shipping orders his last address is Drew Field. Fla. Lt. Tom Tiemey and his lovely bride are living in Meridian, Miss,, near Tom's station at Key West. Marine Sgt. Johnny Wabh is in combat area again somewhere oversEas. Enriitn Ed Wurtiebach is stationed at the USN's Armed Guard Center. South Brooklyn, New Yoik. 
Out-of-town N.D.'ers in and around Denver: To Lynchburg's, Va.'s Paul Morrison, Ensign USN. goes credit for the "scoop-of-the-month." Paul not only located but had a visit Avith N.D.'s famed drum major of the mid-30's, our good friend, Louie Alaman, '36, the man of many tal­ents and stories, currently w-ith an Armory Class at Colorado State College. Out to Paul's corner at Fitzsimmons General Hospital goes another reg­ular visitor, Lt. Harr>- Penrose, N.D. '40, of Al­bany, N. Y.; on duty. Ski-trooper Harry is with the Mountain Infantry at Colorado's two-mile­high Camp Hale. Lt. Bill Barton, '41. and Jim Fisher, both from Indianapolis, are at Lowry Field. Charlie Cash, '28. from Iowa, is at Buck­ley : there, too, is Lt. Jack Cody, CO of the 913th QM's. Lt. Bob Crockett, '38, from Wiscon­sin, is at Denver's Medical Depot. Val Deale. '39, from Cleveland, is at the USN's foreign language school at Boulder. MySgt. Bob Dolan, '40, is at Buckley's finance office. Ed Donnelly, Toledo, is at Lowry. Jim O'Leary, eN. '44. from Bayonne, 
N. J., is a new-comer to Lowri'. George G'pp keeps going on a round-the-clock daily schedule at Childress, Texas. Bombardier School. Frank Sanfilippo, '40 from Poughkecps!e, N. Y., keeps in touch with the Denver N.D.'ers from his flight training station at Foster Field, Texas. Bombar­dier Lt. Bob Schroedcr, N.Y.C., flies at I^owry Field. 
THE DENW^ER NOTRE DAME CLUB 
N.D. Men-in-Ser\'ice Committee John Hnmphreys, Chairman; Gene Blish 

The club members received Communion in a body in the Cathedral on May 2 and later break­fasted together in the Argonaut Hotel. 
At a metting on April 20 Gene Blish was elected president of the club; Al Frantz, vice-president - and John Connrll and Al Donds were re-elected secretary and treasurer, respectively. 
John Hnmphreys was given a large vote of thanks for his work as president during the p'st year. John Connell 

EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
te» R. Mdntyre, '28, I1I7 Raymond Are.. BetUdMM, Pres. 

Lt. John M. Broderick, *40, Allentown. Pa., stationed first in Texas and subsequently in Ken­tucky, recently was sent by the Army to its ad­vanced intelligence school in Harrisburg, Pa., for study. John was inducted as a private, after a whirl as a reporter on the Easton. Pa.. "Free Press.** and has been advancing steadily in the Army. It will soon be Captain Broderick, his friends are betting. 
Leo Crowe, *34, baseball and basketball coach at Central Catholic high school. Allentown, Pa., whose teams have been enjoying marked success, is seeking a commission in the navy physical fitness program. Leo. married but without chil* dren, faces induction at the close of the present school term. 
John Cavalier, '38, director of athletics at the same school, is married and a father, and has been trying for some time to secure a commis­sion in either the Navy or Marines. 
The score now stands Red Cross Nurses, 2 ; 

Army 1. at the domicile of the Leo R. Mclntyres, 
1117 Raymond Ave.. Bethlehem, Pa. The tie was 
broken on April 11 w*hen Mary Anne, whose 
mother w-as a Red Cross nurse and whose father 
is prospective material for the Army, arrived. 
Leo Mclntyre 


GOGEBIC RANGE 
jMeph G. Runeri, Jr., ex. '31, 1307 Second Ave.. N,, Harley, Wis.. Pres.; Enscne R. Zinn, '39. ItS^ Brotaa BMv., Ironwood. Midi., Sec 

Robert J. O'CallaKhan, Ironwood. is the district manager of the Sinclair Refining Company. He was at Notre Dame during the days of Governor KeUy of Michigan. Bob has a son. Bob, who has been attending Notre Dame, but he is awaiting his call to service. Frank J. Vnkovich, Ironwood. holds a key position with the War Production Board at Washington. He determines, among other things, whether or not certain automotive parts can be diverted for private industry instead of war efforts. Edward F. Simonich, fullback of a few years back, has a son. Edward, Jr. Eddie is still the athletic director at Carroll College, Helena, Mont. 
Eacene R. Zinn is a prominent Ironwood at­torney and grand knight of the local Knights of Columbus. Joseph Raineri, the president of our local Notre Dame club, is the district at­torney of Iron County. Wis. Iron County is across the river from us, and it is noted for Hurley, the town that has 50 taverns in two blocks. Joe was cooperating with Jack Roach, who until re­cently was the Wisconsin enforcement boss in the liquor traffic in the Hurley area. Jack, who will be remembered for his football playing, especially in the Wisconsin-Notre Dame game during the Four Horsemen period, is now an officer in the army. Arthur Cavender, of Wake­field, is an accountant in Chicago, and his brother "Beanie" is a doctor in the army with the title of colonel. 
Vic Lemmer 


HANOVER 
Lt. (j.c.) John J. Elder. U.S.N.R., '31. N.T.S., DartmoDth Cdlecc. Pro. ; Ensiicn RokSTt M. Roten. |}.SJ;.R.. '43, N.T.S.. Dartmoath CaUese. Sec 

Tlie club had a big froinp-away party on May 1 with most of its 40 men present. Half of them brought their wives or dates. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The party was or^^anized by a committee com­posed of the president, secretary, and Vice-Presidents John Enclish, Pete Moritz, Jack Elder. Don Ryan, Steve HoUcran, and Bob Rogers. It lasted from early afternoon through a delicious chicken dinner, until time for the Navy dance that evening. V.-P. English was MC for the after-dinner speeches. The club was privileged in having the commanding officer of the School. Capt. H. M. Briggs, USN. and Mrs. Briggs as guests for dinner. T^e captain was given a rous­ing "He's a Man." He said he was sorry he didn't know the "Victory March" as well as the mem­bers knew "Anchors Aweigh." 
Toward the close of the p'trty the affairs of the club were turned over to the new officers: Presi­dent Jack Elder and Secretary Bob Rocers as most of the members were leaving the school for further duty. 
Some club members not listed in the last issue 
are Wayne Millner, John Metzger. Jim GaUaxhcr, 
Ed Caldwell. Al Capter. Paul Tierney. Frank 
Comins. Chuck Bamett. Paul Murphy, Gene 
Gocller. Ed Holland, Joe Prokop. Joe Stmad and 
Joe Kuharich. 
Ed Roney 

KANSAS CITY 
Hon. Rnascll Hardy, *16. 919 Cleveland, 
Kansas City, Kans., Pres.; Vincent W. De-
Conrsey, *39. 1321 Georgia, Kansas City, 
Kans.. Sec. 

Sunday. May 2, found a goodly delegation from Kansas City and surrounding territory attending Communion and breakfpst in honor of Notre Dame and her men in the service. Early Mass at Visitation Church followed by breakfast immedi­ately after attracted most of the younger element who are not currently in the service, those few who were at home on leave, and current stu­dents and their fathers, as well as the old faith­ful who never miss any of the N.D. get-togethers. 
Russell Hardy, president of the club, was guilty of pressing too hard on the down-swing the Sat­urday before, and wound up the day as a casualty, suffering from an old back injury. But among those able to get up early in the A.M. were Doc Nicro. Maurice Carroll. Rome Dugan (naturally), Charles Metzler and son Bob, J. E. Marshall, Leo Spaulding. Bill and C. M. Cahill. Frank Dugan. senior and junior. Tom Reardon. T. P. Downs. John Schmitz. Maurice J. Fairhead. Lt. Col. J. 
V. Johnson. Harry J. Kanfmann. Joe Shaugh­nessy, Joe Canlfield. and Lt. Bud Centner of the Army Air Force, who is stationed at Rosecrans Field. St. Joseph, Mo. To those others present whose names we have forgotten or mislaid, our cpologies. 
Wa'tcr A. Kramer, ex. *20, general purchasing director of the Columbian Steel Tank Co. of this city, died hist week after a long illness. He is survived by his wife and a ll-month-old son. The Kansas City-N.D. Club extends sympathy to the family and Mr. Kramer's many friends. 
Vince DeCoursey 

NEW ORLEANS 
Charles de la Vergne. *25, 1102 Maritime 
Bldg., Pres.: Emil L. Telfel. '31. Loyola 
University, Sec 

The Notre Dame alumni of New Orleans at­tended Mass and received Commu'nion on Sun­day. May 2, at the Sacred Heart Church of which Rev. Leo Flood, C.S.C.. is pastor. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ignatius A. O'Shaughncssy of St. Paul, with their son Larry, visited New Orleans the past week-end and were entertained by Patrick E. Burke and son, Bolan. Their son Don, a Notre Dame student, is a lieutenant at the Army Staging Area, Camp Harahan, near New Orleans, and has been stationed here for the past two months. Mr. O'Shaughnessy recently gave a magnificent gift to the University. 
Bolan Burke returned to New Orleans after 
si.x months spent on a U.S. Merchant Marine 
vessel. 
Patrick E. B«rke 

NEW JERSEY 
Richard J. Dericks, *31, 347 Paxton St . Pater­son, Pres.; Tobias Kramer, ex. *3G. 341 Orame Rd., Montclair, Sec. 

The club asked its members to offer their Masses and Communions in their own churches on May 2 "for Notre Dame men everywhere, in and out of the service." 
PHILADELPHIA 
Harold Duke, '30, 4030 N. Broad St., (Ka4­cliff 6900, Hancock 3153) Pres.; Joseph F. Cattie. *41, 6302 Gardenia St., (German­town 0308) Sec 

The Philadelphia Club has risen to new heights in the past few months, for which a great deal of credit must go to Father John P. Lynch, C.S.C., '25, former prefect of religion at the University and now religious director of the club. Principally through Father Lynch's efforts the club has be­come allied with the Big Brother movement in Philadelphia. Dick McCIure, '25, is chairman of the committee and the club has received very favorable newsimper publicity on the work done so far. 
A Jeffersonian Democracy Committee has been rppointed with John Neeson. Jr., '35, as chair­man. This committee was appointed to foster and promote the ideals of Jefferscn and to bring out the need of all governments first to recognize God as the Supreme Being. 
At the annual Penn Relays a Notre Dame team stole the show along with an ex-Notre Darner, Greg Bice. Although the only record which fell was that under the spikes of Greg, who seems to have a habit of doing such things, the Notre Dame relay teams made a mar\-elous showing but could not break any records because of the poor track. Ollie Hunter walked away with the two-mile, and for that matter outclassed all competitors, according to all Philadelphia sport reporters. Captain Jim Delaney placed in toth the shot and discus. 
On Sunday. May 2, the club commemorated Universal Notre Dame along with the Univer­sity and other clubs throughout the country. Mass was said by Father Lynch and Communion was offered for our late coaches, Rockne, Nicho|. son and Keogan. along with Notre Dame men in the armed seni'ices, especially those who have given their lives in the ser\-ice of their country, and for all the mothers of Notre Dame men throughout the world. 
After Mass and Communion, a breakfast was held at the Fhilopatrian Catholic Literary Insti­tute. Speakers included John H. Neeson, Sr., founder of Universal Notre Dame Night, who outlined the history of the establishment of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, followed by Rt. Rev. Msgr. Thomas F. McNally, v,-ho gave us an en­lightening talk on the contributions of Catholi­cism to the world. In order to bring us into closer contact with the horrors of war, we had Pfc. Joseph Kenney of the United States Marines, who was seriously wounded at Gaudalc^nal, retell his experiences and his impressions of the battle for repossession of the island. 
A flag, bearing the offici I coat of arms of the University, was displayed and then presented to the University by our outgoing secretary. CliM Prodehl. Father John Lynch accepted it on behalf of the school. It will be used in the future on all official University occasions. 
Officers for the ensuing year were inducted and took office officially at this meeting. Iliey were as follows: Hatali E. Dake, president: Walter SU-Im, *31. vice-president: JMtph F. Cattie, *4I. secretary: and E. Bradley Bailey, ex. '22, treaa­ur«r. 
During the I:reakfcst, a telegram from Lt. CMim. Bbl Ehrard, '16. expressing his regrets at not being able to attend, was read, as well as a communication from Oarlea Canley, '33, our former secretary, who relinqmsbed his job to take up a bigger job with Uncle Sam. It was announced that oar congenial friend and coach at Vlllanova. CGppcr Smith, had accepted a com­mission as captain in the Marines. Good lock, Clipper. 
Out of town Notre Damers who attended were Pvt. Ben Mnlfia, >37. Enaign Pa d Sduenker, *33. Lt. Naratan E. Dake. *33. Lt. Kyle DanMD, '38. as well as a group of present students who are always welcome at any of the club's activities. 
Jaaepli F. Cattit 


ST. LOUIS 
VaUa Weave, ex; '22. HcU Paddac C«^ tXU LaSaOe, PR^ : Dr. FraMis L. KtMrntir, "SS. »!••••• I TiKati* BUm^ Sec 

Valda H. Wrape, president of the club, wired Father O'Denndl, president, as follows on Hay 
2: "Notre Dame Club of S t Louis joined in the celebration of the Universal Communion break­fast. Fifty men participated in a happy and suc­cessful spiritual and patriotic program." 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEy 
C3Bicae» W. Ifiiifcu. "SS. SMth Btmi *Titt­
«••,* PTM.; Jaatfh W. Vymm, *n, Cmtt 
Haua. Saatli BtfO. Sac 

Marvin L. Tomber. South Bend, a June gradu­ate of Central High School, has been awarded the 1943 Notre Dame scholarship of the club. He will start at Kotre Dame in the July 1 semester. 
Selection of Hr. Tomber was made by a com­inittee of local judges composed of F. W. IJayri. comptroller of the University: Otto J. Newman, superintendent of St. Joseph County Schools: Jadse J. Elater Peak; Otto A. Pfaff. president of the American Foundry Equipment Comiiany. Mishawaka; and Fred N. Smith, president of the First National Bank, Hishawaka. Tliey inter­viewed all scholarship applicants. 
Assisting the judges was the club's scholarship committee comjiosed of J. Frank Miles, chairman: Paul Bl. Batlcr, William R. Daaley. Herhert E. Janes, James R. Meehan and Charles A. Sweeney. 
By the terms of the scholarship, Mr. Tomber becomes eligible to receive from the club $100 a semester for a maximum of eight semesters as a Notre Dame undergraduate student. With this aid. supplemented by additional aid offered by the University in the form of employment on the campus, the major school expenses of the scholar­ship holfler are covered. Funds for the scholarship have been largely derived over a pericd of years from the football banquet sponsored annually by the club to honor the Notre Dame team and its coaches. 
One of the high ranking students in the June class at Central Hi ^ School. Mr. Tomber is particularly outstanding in mathematics. He is the winner this year of the John Nelson BCills medal for excellence in mathematics at Central and received in addition, honorable mention for his accomplishments in science. He won the state-wide high school contest in geometry in 1941 and in 1940 placed fifth in a similar contest in algebra. 
Mr. Tomber is head usher of the Central Ushers Club and a member of the cabinet of the senior 
class. For the past two years he has been a swimming instructor and lifejruard at the 
Y.M.C.A. He is a member of Sinai SynaEOKue. 
Joe Boland, special events announcer for WSBT, South Bend, was elected president of the club at a meeting of the directors on April 12. E. M. Morris was named honorary president: Kev. Charles Sheedy, CS-C , Notre Dame, chaplain: Walter M. Lcnsford. vice-pref'ident; Richard Kaczmarck, secretary, and George Koch, treas­urer. 
Rev. Charics Carey, CS.C , chaplain, officiated at the annual Rockne Memorial Mas? in Dillon Hall Chapel on Sunday. April 4. Breakfast in the Cafeteria was followed by a pro^rram in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial at which J. Arthur Haley was the master of ceremonies. Thomas A. Hynes. South Bend, long a friend of Rock, was the principal speaker. Joseph M. Byrne, Newark. K. J., who was visiting on the campus, also spoke. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17, 704 Mar>land Ave., Pittsburch, Prcs.; Wm. H. H. Grnder, Jr., 1166 Momineside Ave., Pittsburgh. Sec. 
Universal Notre Dame Night became Universal Notre Dame Morning, May 2. when the club at­tended services at the Cathedral end later had breakfast at Webster Hall. The annual election of officers resulted in the following choices: Dr. Leo D. O'DonneU, '17, president; E. J. Ncbcl, '30, vice-president: John B. Reardon, *22, treasurer; and the writer, re-elected secretary—so help you. 
Following the election of officers, we were en­tertained by a showing of the very interesting 
U. S. Rubber Co. mcvie, "Rubber Goes to War." Later Mr. Dereume, local Belgian consul and father of Aagnst J. Dereume, '41 (now in U.S. Na\T foreign ser\'ice) led a round table discus­sion of diplomacy in wartime and post war periods. Richard M. Terrj*, ex. '45, and Jack Talbtt, '43, then in the Army Air Force College Training Detachment at Duquesne University, attended the annual meeting. 
Ed CcrsffFove, '34, is now lieutenant (j.g-). Great Lakes Naval Training Station, Great Lakes. 
III. We had the pleasure of having Father Frank Gartland, CS.C, *2Z, attend our weekly luncheon. May 13. He is now at Cathedral High School, Indianapolis. J, R. Hagan, '34, formerly a New-Yorker, is now in Pittsburgh. He is with the Stainless Division of the Pittsburgh Steel Co. Yes. he's married. 
Don Martin, '33. with the USO. is now at Curacao. Dutch West Indies, according to Charles 
W. (Pinky) Blartin, '27, his brother. Pinky can te reached at the USO Club. Newport News, Va., where he's operating in high gear if the interest­ing stories he was telling us at lunch the other day are any criterion. 
By the way, our Thursday noon meeting place has been switched from the Hotel Henry to the Hotel William F'enn grill. We're happy to report that we've been getting attendance since the move. The same policy holds—order what you like and pay accordingly. 
Phil Donovan, *26, is in the Navy. It's Ss*­
C. E. Dillon, *41, now. according to a very nice letter I received from his mother. He is in New Guinea. His brother, John C , is an ensign in the Na\*y, Section Base, Box 37, Key West, Fla. 

-Ensirn William R. Hawes, '41. of Gresnville. Pa., enroute to a "military secret," had lunch with us recently. Bcmie Conroy, *30, is now with the in­dustrial engineering department of the Aluminum Company of America at New Kensington. 
Won't someone please tell me whether it was 

The Notre Dame Club of Spokane. Waslu was organized at a Communion break­fast on May 2. Mass in Our Lady of Lourdes Cothedral was followed by breakfast in the Spokane Hotel at which Frank Hagenbarth was elected president of the group and Edward D. Raddatz secretary. 
The picture above was taken just outside the Cathedral. Left to right are Bud Raddatz, Bernard Lenoue, Frank Hagenborth, Edwin McV^lliosis, Frank Zappone. Thom­as Lolly, William Olson, Jim Lynch. Claire Keoms ond Armonde Albo. At the breakfast, in addition, were Most Rev. William Condon. DJ>M bishop of Greot Falls, Mont.. Brother Marian. CS.C. Brother Octovius, CS.C ond Lt Robert P. McDonough. 
a boy or girl born to Mr. and Mrs. James Dodson recently. I know that the mother and baby are well and that Jimmy, *30, couldn't get away from San Pedro, Calif. (Na\'y) for the occasion, but I still don't^ know whether he has a son or daughter. 

Dr. John F. Ralston, pre-med '15 and *16. from Rock Island, 111., is now* a lieutenant commander. Medical Examiner's office. Naval Procurement Of­fice, Keystone Hotel. Pittsburgh. Dr. Ralston received his degree at the University of Illinois. His home is in Cleveland. 
Ed Skeehan, '35. is now in a U.S. Navy train­ing school on the battleship "Prairie State," New York City. He was in the engineering department of Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corp. prior to his en­listment. 
We hear that John O'Toole, *25, is Jiow in 

Africa helping the Army solve its transportation 
problems. Charles O'Toole, '23, recently accepted 
a commission as major in the U.S. Engineers, 
making five O'Tooles in the Array—Chuck, John. 
Bill. Larr>'. and Bob. 
Bill Ginder 

yOUNGSTOWN 
Ourlcs B. Ctuhwa. Jr., '31, 18SS Conmad* Ave., Pres.; Clarence T. "Pete" Sbe^an, *40, 215 Granada Ave., Sec. 

From Pete Sheehan at 7€th Air Base Squadron, Hendricks Field. Sebring, Fla.. comes this report on Youngstown activities: 
Was home on furlough in March. Arrived just in time for the annual Chesterton Club dance. As usual, the Youngstown Notre Damers had a table for themselves. Charlie Cushwa, the self-styled bowling sensation and Chesterton Club trustee, was the life of the party. Attorney Jack Kane managed to get down from his federal D.A. job for the occasion. George Kelley, '28. my old editor boss who recently was appointed acting manager of the "Vindicator." was there. State Representative John J. Buckley, Jr., Jf»e Wallace, Gabe Moran and Jade Hagen joined in the re­union. Hagen, with Sharon Steel, has been trans* ferred from New York to Pittsburgh. CpL BUI Dnnlevy dropped in a few days too late. Bill is at Camp Davis. S. C. 
Pat McCarty left Ursuline Hi;:h for Catholic Central in Toledo shortly after I came back to camp. Spike Siecel, '39, is at Newport. R. I., as an anti-aircraft topkick. Ensign Bud Bernard is somewhere in the Pacific, and Lt. Phil Daly, ex. '40. my old roommate in Badin, is at North Camp Hood, Tex.. tr::ining rookies in the Tank Destroyer division. 
I've finally found a Notre Damcr here at Hen­dricks. He's Ist Lt. William F. Hampel, of Mt. Vernon. N. Y., ex. *42. Lt. Hampel is down here learning to fly a B-17 Fljing Fortress at the Hendricks specialized four-engine school. 



CENTENARY FUND 
(Continued from page 20) 
Tracy, Pvt. Joseph A. 5.00 Wahl. John J. 5.00 
(3-1) S 
Sobscribcrs to the "Alamnns,** elcctrd (non former-stodcnt) members of the Alomni As­socimtion and Notre Dame Clobs 
Buckley, T. F. S 2.00 Connolly, E. F. . 25.00 Corona. Josa C. 25.00 Doyle. Mr!=. Peter A. 
10.00 Duncan, John 25.00 Evans, Emmett 
3.00 FoIe.v, J. J. 5.00 Hayes, Bryan 2.00 Leroux, .Geor;re J. 
5.00 
Lloyd, Francis W. (Additional) 50.00 McCarthy. Joseph P. 1 
25.00 
Notre Dame Club of 
Cleveland (Scholarship • Fund—Additional) 1,000.00 Pavey. Jesse I. 250.00 Tracy. Gerald B. 10.00 Schedit, Edward 25.00 Shanley. Rev. Bernard E. 2.00 
(15) $1,464.00 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Dicksm, Edwaid J., '42, U.S. Army, Robins Inn, 

ADDITIONAL MILITARY MEN* 
Warner Robins Air Depot, Rabins Field, War­
(Including names received 

Ahlerinc. Joseph J.. 1st Lt., ex. '37. (M.D.) APO S39, cto Postmaster, Seattle, Wash. 
Anderson, William M., e.\. °4o, Midsliipman, US­NR, U.S. Naval Academy. Bancroft Hall 3310A, Annapolis, Md. 
Armbmster. Hugh J.. '38, Pvt., U.S. Army, 
D.E.M.
 Bids. 59, Fort Slocum, New RochcUe, 

N.
 Y. Armbmster, James W., '40, Dr., U.S. Army, De-


Paul Hospital. Kings Highway. St. Louis. Mo. Ashe, Thomas R., '31. Lt. (i.g.). USNR. Aylward, James P.. '41. Lt.. U.S. Army. C.A.C., 
Fort Bliss, Te.xas. Baltes, John W., '39. C.M.2C. USNR. 63rd Const. Bn., Co. A-2. Port Hueneme. Calif. Barton, Emmet P., "39. Lt.. U.S. Army Air Corps. Lowry Field, Denver. Colo. Bess, Herbert F.. '30 Pvt.. U.S. Army. Co. A, 27tli Bn., S.C.R.T.C., Camp Crowder, Mo. Bischolf. Robert H., '41, EnsiRn. USNR. N.T.S.. Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H. BlackaU, Clair J., '29, Lt., U.S. Army. Btry. K. 613th C.A.(A.A.). Camp Stewart. Ga. Blunt, James W., '38. Sgt., U.S. Army. APO C68, c/o Postmaster. New York City. Bohen, Thomas L., '38. U.S. Army. Camp Roberts. Calif. Bona, Frank T., e.x. '35. A.S.V.S.. USNR. Co. 584, Great Lakes. III. Bower, Raymond C , '41, Ensign, USNR. cjo F'ostmaster. San Francisco, Calif. Bracken, Edward A., '35. Ensign USNR. cjo Postmaster. New York City. 
Bradley, Daniel P., '41. A/C. USNR. Bn. 1. Class 5.\. Naval Air Base. Lambert. Field. St. Louis. Mo. 
Brennan, Edward J., °3S, Ensign. USNR, U.S. Navy Pre-FIight School, St. Mary's. Calif. Brennan, William J., '39, U.S. Army Air Corps, Marfa, Texas. 
Brockman, Bsmard N., '41. Lt.. U.S.M.C. 12th Marines, cjo Fleet Post Office. San Francisco, Calif. 
Broscer, George J., '38. 2nd Lt.. U.S. Army. C.A.C.. 645th A.A.A.. M.C. Btry.. Camp Stew­art, Ga. 
Brusca, Donald D., '30. 1st Lt., U.S. Army, APO 
8775, c/o Postmaster, New York City. Burke, James P., '42, U.S. Army. Burkholder, Richard M., '39. Army Air Corps. 
Miami Beach. Fla. Bums, Lawrence A.. '41. Ensign. USNR, Navy Recruiting Office, Albany. N. Y. Callachan Paul ,M., '33, Pvt., U.S. .•\rmy. Combat Co., Hdqs., Cimp Funston, Kans. Campbell John L., '41, AjC. U.S .Army Air Corps 
Pre-FIight School. Group I. Sqdn. I. Flight E. Class .435 San Antonio Aviation Cadet Center, San Antonio, Texas, 
Canale, Daniel D., '42, Officers Candidate School. Fort Benr.ing, Ga. Canino. John J., •34.- Pvt., U.S. Army. AFO 437, c/o Postmaster. Los Angeles, Calif. Carideo, Fred J., '36, Lt. (j.g.), USNR, N.T.S., Fort Schuyler, Bronx, New York City. Carney, Lionel, '24, Army Transport Ser\'ice. 
* Names are listed here only once — when they are first received by the Alumni Office. Changes in military addresses are included in clrss news. 
 and classified up to May 26). 
Carney, Richard A., '38, U.S. Army, 1st Receivine Co., Bks. 8, Camp Upton, N. Y. Clacys, Jerome P., '37, Ensign, USNR. Naval Air Base Training Station, Dallas, Tex. 
Clements, Samuel S., '35, Lt., U.S. Army, Public Relations Office, Chemical Warfare Center, Edgewocd Arsenal, Md. 
Conlcy, Charles A., '33, Pvt., U.S. Army, Co. A, RST 1354, 1301st Service Unit, New Cumber­land. Pa. 
Connelly, Frank X., e.\-. '34. Lt., U.S.M.C. 
ConnelLv, Robert E., e.\-. '40. Ensign. USNR, A.T.B.. Supply Corps. Solomons Branch. Wash­ington. D. C. 
Cosgrove, Edward A., '34. Lt. (j.g.) USNK. Dept. of Supplies. U.S. Naval Training Station. Great Lakes. III. Costello, Georse K., '40. U.S. Army. 1610 K.R.C., Co, E. T-154. Camp Grant. III. Cowning, William F., e-x. '45. SjSgt.. U.S. Army, Base Ordnance Office, Army Air Base. Pyote, 
Texas. 
CroIUrd, Frederick M., '38. Lt., U.S. Army Air Corps. 
Dahar. Philip G., '39. U.S. Navy, P.O. School, Unit IE. Sddn. I. N.T.S.. Norfolk. Va. 
DeCook Raymond L., '32, A.S., USNR. Co. 532. Naval Training Station. Great Lakes, III. Delisi, Joseph J., ex. '44, Pfc, U.S. Army, 28th Academic School Sqdn., Gulfport, Miss. DcLois, Jess F., '42. S/Sgt.. U.S. Army. 630th T.S.S.. Gulfport Field. Miss. 
SERVICE LIST AT 2,825 

According to Alumni Office rec­ords, as of May 26, 1943, there are 2,825 Notre Dame men in mil­itary service. It is, of course, safe to assume that several hundred other former students are also in service but haven't so far notified the Alumni Office accordingly. The real total would doubtless run well above 3,000. 
As of May 26, a total of 45 Notre Dame men had given their lives in World War II, as com­pared with 56 in the whole of World War I. Six Notre Dame men are listed as "missing in ac­tion" and four as prisoners of war. 
Due to the heavy volume of ad­ditional work occasioned by mili­tary listings, in the office records and in the "Alumnus," the Alum­ni Office hasn't had the time or personnel to date to separate the military men according to types of service, years at Notre Dame, etc., but hopes eventually to do this. 
ner, Ga. D»"«fc»e, Terence C '28. Lt. (j.g.) USNR. Danly, Jshn C , '36, U.S. Army Air Corps. DanneOy. Edward. '20, US. Army, Lowry Field, 
Denver, Colo. DMiey. William F., '37, SySgt., r.S. Army. Dsyie. John J.. '38. In service. Dfl-Ie, WiUiaai F., '30, Lt. (J.g.) USNR. Chance 
Vought Aircraft Div., United Aircraft Corp.. Stratford, Conn. DrjHsbki. Alrin V., '33, U.S. Army. Finance Dept.. P.O. Box 636, Monolulu, T. H. 
Enn . Francis X., '24, U.S. Army. Elder. John J.. '30, Lt. (j.g.). USNR, Naval Training School, Dartmouth College, Hanover. 
N. H. EUswortk, Edward C . '31, FVt.. U.S. Army. 615 
T.G. — 493 M. Sq.. St. Petersburg. Fla. Erwin. Gearce E., '30. Pvt., U..S Army, APO 762, cjo Postmaster, New York City. 
Ewinc. JoKph H.. '32, Lt, U.S. Army. 14th Regt, 67th Bn., Co. C, Camp Robinson, Ark. 
Fahej, Lester D., '42, Pvt.. U.S. Army. Hq. Co., S.L.F.S.. W.D.C., Camp Lockett. Calif. 
Falatck. Gcotce J., ex. '45, Reg. Hq. Co., 302nd Inf., Camp Phillips. Kans. Fallon, Williaai J.. '42. Ensign. USNR, Naval Air Station, South Weymouth, Mass. Fceney. Harry V., ex. '44. AyC. USNR, Naval Air Corps. Left Wing. Air Base, Hutchinson, Kans. Fecan Walter W.. '41, Ensign. USNR, South Boston. Mass. 
Ferxas, Francu E.. '40. Midshipman. USNR Mid­shipmen's School, 306 Tower Hall, Chicago, IlL Ferrari. Salvatoie T., '34. Lt,. U.S. Army Medical 
Corps, Tilton General Hospital, Fort Dix, N. J. Finnecan. J. Francis. '30, U.SJa.C, Marine Bar­racks, Washington. D. C. Finneran. John P.. '33, Lt.. U.S. Army, APO 836. cjo Postmaster, New Orleans, La. Firth. John R.. '38, Pfc. U.SJH.C. Inf. Bn., Co. 
B. Camp LeJeune. New River, N. C. Fitzpalrick. John E.. ex. '45. Pfc. U.S. Army Air Corps, A.A.F.T.T.D., Det. Fl. 5, Barracks 22. Middle River, Hd. Flynn, JoMph J., '42, Lt.. U.S.M.C., Dept. of the Fhcific, 100 Harrison St.. San Francisco, Calif. Ford, Thsmas P.. '40. Lt. (j.g.), USNR, Navy Yard, Boston, Mass. 
Frericks. Alfred J., '41. U.S. Army. Camp Beaure­gard. La. 
Fricfce. Cart H.. '39, Pfc, U.S. Army. Hq. Co., Classification Section, S.C.U. 1959, Fort Mac­Arthur. Calif. 
GaUecoi. Robert W., e.x. '46. Pvt.. U.S. Army. Wing A. Group 4. B.T.D. (Prov.). Section C, Atlantic City, N. J. Gerend. James J., '33. Pvt.. U.SJI.C.. Platoon 
349. M.B.. Recruit Depot. San Diego, Calif. Getts, Paol C . e.x. '42. U.S. Army. Hdq. 25th Tmg. Grp.. Army Air Base. Jefferson Barracks, Mo. Gibson, Francis E.. '42. SF3C, USNR, c/o Fleet Postoffice, New^ York City. 
Gillespie, Basil G.. '37. Ensign. USNR. Naval Training Station. Fort Schuyler, Bronx. New York City. 
Gilliland. Donald R., '40. U.S. Army, Bn. Hdqs., Reception Center 1772. Jefferson Barracks, Mo. Gladen. Ralph C '23, Capt.. U.S. Army Medical Corps, U.S. Army Base, Walla Walla, Wash. 
-Gorman, John J.. *38, Yeaman, U.S. Navy. Goraun. Thomu A., '37, Lt. (j.s.), USN'R. 
U.S. Navy Pre-Flight School, Chape! Hill, N. C. GottKfaalk. Donald T., e.\-. •41. Lt. (j.B.), USNR, cjo Fleet Post Office, New York City. 
Grady, Robert J. P., e.x. '45. Lt.. U.S. Army, Hdqs., 2nd Inf. Div., Chemical Warfare Service, Camp HcCoy, Wis. 
Grady, Thomas F., '41, Ensisn, USNR. Graham. Arthibald G.. '37. Ensien, USNR, N.T.S., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. Graham, Francis X., '32, Corp., U.S. Army, Co. B, Vint Hill Farms Station, Warrenton, Va. 
Green, Ralph G., '33, Lt. (j.g.), USNR, A.G.O. School, Bide- €11, Naval Air Station, Jackson­ville Fla. 
Grcntzer, John M., ex. '45. A/C, USNH, Naval Aviation Flight Training Station, Colgate Uni­versity, Hamilton, N. Y. 
Grisanti. Robert C , '40. Pvt., U.S. Army. Hdqs., & Hdq. Det, 47oth Q.M. Regt., Camp Blanding. Ha. Groves, Frands H., ex. '44, Pvt, U.S. Army Air Corps, 606 A.A.F.T.S., Bks. 929, Sioux Falls Field, Sioux Falls, S. D. Gnnter, Francis E.. '40. Lt.. U.S.M.C.. Quantico, Va. 
Hacerty, John M., '39, AjS U.S. Navy, Co. 381, N.T.S.. Great Lakes. III. HacECrty, Georce C, ex. '45. Pvt., U.S. Army. Co. B, 1229 R.C.. Fort Dix. N. J. Haley, Richard L., e-v. '45, Cadet. U.S. Military Academy, Co. D-12, 4th Class, West Point, N. Y. Hallinan, Paol J., '32, Rev., Chaplain, APO 3383. c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. Hammond, Thomas J., '40, Y3C. U.S. Na\-}-. 
Hanrahan, Vincent J., '22, Lt., USNR, N.T.S.. 3073 Baker Hall, Ohio State University, Co­lumbus, O. 
HarrinKton, Thomas J., '34. Ensign. USNR. cjo Fleet Post Office, New York City. 
Hasson, Charles G., '42, Con>.. U.S. Army. 37th Academic Sqdn., Advanced Armament, A.A.F.­T.T.C, Lowry Field, Colo. 
Hayden, Edward G., e-x. '42. AjC. USNR, Naval 
Air Training Center, Corpus Christi, Tex. Head, John I., '38, U.S. Army. Hodzson, Thomas H., '24, Lt., USNR. Columbia 
University. New York City. Hofschneider, Leo J., '36, Dr., In service. Hocan, Gerald F., ex. '44. A/C, U.S. Army Air 
Corps, Sikeston, Mo. Rosan John H., ex. '45, A/C. USNR, Bldg. 30H, 
1B-R2, Naval Air Base. Peru, Ind. Hoir, Frederidc N., '41, Ensign, USNR. Hosinski, William A., '42, U.S. Army. Camp Lee. 
Va. Hnthes James J., '31. 1st Lt.. U.S. Army. Shaiv Field. Sumter. S. C. Huntley. William L., ex. '45, U.S. Naval Air Sta­tion. Opa-Locks. Fla. Hurrie, William P.. ex. '43, Pfc, U.S. -Army, Hq. & Hq. Co.. Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. Hnrwidi, IrvinE A., '26, YIC, U.S. Na\-y, Naval Training Station. Great Lakes, 111. Boston, Edward A., '40 2nd Lt.. U.S. Army, Ord. School, Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md. Ireland, James W., ex. '45, 1st Lt., U.S. Army. 612 T.D. Bn., Camp Hood, Tex. Jahr, Charles A„ '34, Ensign, USNR. 47 Common­^vealth Ave., Boston, Mass. Jassoy, Robert W., '35, Ensign, USNR, V.O.Q. 4-30-1. Lewis Park, Norfolk, Va. 
Jennincs, John A., e-x. '45, Midshipman, USNH. 3147 Bancroft Hall, U.S. Naval Academy, An­napolis. Md. 
Johnsen, Peter J., '37. Corp.. U.S. Army, 75th Signal Co.. Fort Ord. Calif. Jordan, John J., '35. U.S. Navy. Jndce, Joseph A., '39, Corp., U.S. Army Air Corps, 636 T.S.S., Boca Raton Field, Fla. Jndith, Joseph H., ex. '42. Ensign, USNK. N.T.C., Sqdn. 13B, Corpus Christi, Tex. 
Jnsten, Daniel A., '41, Corp., U.S. Army, Ham­mond General Hospital, Med. Det.. Modesto, Calif. 
Kaczmarek, Jerome J., '39, Ensign, USNK. N.T.S., Dartmouth College. Hanover. N. H. 
Kamm, Wither A.. '40. Pvt.. U.S. Army. Hdqs. Co., Maintenance Bn., 22 Armored Div., Camp Perry, O. 
Kane, Raymond A., '36, 2nd Lt., U.S. Army. 
Keenan, Joseph D., e.x. '43, USNR, 13-C Quad. Battery 1. U.S.N. Post Office. Iowa City. Iowa. Kellefaer, William L., '42, U.SJI.C. Officers Can­
didate Class. Quantico, Va. 
Kelley, Daniel A., '41, Ensign, USNR, Gallatin Hall E.31. Soldiers Field Station. Boston, Mass. Kelly, Francis B., '39,. Ensign. USNR, Naval 
Training Station Lionel B-31, Harvard Univer­sity, Cambridge. Mass. Kelly, William P., es. '42. Prt.. U.S. Army, Co. D, 37th Inf. Trng. Bn., Camp Croft, Spartan­
burg, S. C. Kempf, Laden J., '33, U.S. Navy. Kennedy, Edward J., '36, Pvt., U.S. Army, 75th 
Ferrying Sqdn., 2nd O.T.V, Air Transport Command. Homestead Field, Fla. Kieman, Robert R., '39, Cadet, Naval Air Train­ing Center. Corpus Christi. Tex. Kilburger, Harry F., '32. A/S. U.S. Na\-y., Naval Training Station. Great Lakes. 111. Kilrain, Edwin T., '38, FVt., U.S. Army, Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. Kleinschmidt, Alvin O., ex. '45, Seaman Guard, U.S.N.A.S.. Corpus Christi, Te.x. Klosky, Clarence J., ex. '43, Pvt.. U.S. Army. Co. 
F. Reception Center. Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. Knox, Robert V.. '28, Lt.. (j.g.). USNR, cjo B.O.Q., N.AJ)., Hingham. Mass. Kopczafc, Francis G., '37, Lt., U.S. Army Air 
Corps, Miami Beach. Fla. Kuka, Raphael E., ex. '44. U.S. Army Air Corps. 
LaBonte, John F., e.x. '46. AjS, USNR, Co. 134, N.T.S., Great Lakes, III. Lahcy, Edwin J., '40. 2nd Lt.. U.S. Army, Reld Artillery, Fort Bragg, N. C. Landers, Maorice D., '42, A/C, USNR, Class 3A-1, Naval Air Station, Los Alamitos, Calif. 
Lanigan, Leo A., '42, Corp., U.S. Army Air Corps, 1023 F.G.T. Sqdn., Laredo Army Air Field, Laredo, Tex. 
Lehan, John P.. '35, Lt. (j.g.), USNR. Lillis, Panl B., '42, Ensign. USNR. M.T.B.S.T.C™ Melville, R. I. 
Lipsie, Henry L, '38, U.S. Army Air Corps, 73rd Ser\*ice Sqdn., Army Air Base, Alliance, Nebr. Loranger, Guy L., '28, Capt.. U.S. Army Medical 
Corp Res€r\'e, Extension Hospital, Chanute 
•Field, III. 
Lucas, John W., ex. '45, Lt., U.S. Army, 13th Bn., 4th Trng. Regt., F.A.R.C., Fort Bragg, 
N. C. Lynch, William I., '37. Ensign, USNR. 
Maddock, Robert C, '42, Ensign. USNR,. A.T.B., Little Creek, Va. 
Maher, Herman M., e.\. '45, A/S, USNR, Co. 1962. 16th Bn., 14th Regt., Camp Moffett, Great Lakes III. 
Maher. Robert J., ex. '40. Ensign. USNR. N.T.S.. 12th Naval District. Treasure Island, San Fran­cisco, Calif. 
Haher. Thomas E., e.x. '43, Pvt., U.S.M.C, c/o Fleet Post Office, San Francisco, Calif. 
Mahncy. WiUUm C, '41, Sgt., U.S. Army, APO 709, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. HaUan, B«(h A., '42, USNR, N.T.S.. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. Harbaash. Charles G.. ex. '35, Lt., U.S. Army, Station Hospital, Camp Phillips. Kans. MarUn, Donald J., '42. Lt.. U.S.M.C. 18th R.O.C., Quantico, Va. 
Martin, Emery W., '41, Candidate, U.S. Army, Officers Training School, Qu::rtermaster Corps, Camp Lee, Va. 
Masterson, Christopher R., '38, Ensign, USNR, 
U.S.S. -L.S.T.-359, Main Branch Amphibious, Post Office, Norfolk, Va. 
Masterson. Leonard J.. '42, Ensign. USNR, LCT(5) 420 Flotilla 1, Amphibious Force, Main Branch Fbst Office, N.O.B., Norfolk, Va. 
Mathews. John R.. '32, Lt., USNR. McAlaon. Vincent G.. '34, U.S. Army. McAnalty. John B.. '34, Lt., U.S. Army, Office of 
the Chief of Transportation. Room 1E739. Pen­tagon Bldg., Washington. D. C. McCarthy. Albert O.. '35, Ensign, USNR. c/o Fleet Post Office. New York City. McClamn. James P., '40. U.S. Army. 36th Inf. Trng. Bn.. 3rd Platoon, Camp Croft, S. C. 
McDonaM, Rcbert L.. '30, U.S. Army, 402 T.S. Sq. (Sp.), Bks. 334, Sheppard Field, Wichita Falls, Te.x. 
McElllKOtt, Georce D., '35, U.S. Army. McElroy. Paol C . '29, Lt., USNR. 938th Engr. Cam. Bn., A.V.N.. March Field. Calif. 
McEneamey, Alfred B., '39. Pvt., U.S. Army, Co. C, 8th Q.M.T.R., Platoon 4. Bks T-733. Camp Lee. Va. 
MeFarland, Philip B., '41. Pvt., U.S. Army, 8th General Hospital. Schick General Hospital, Clinton, la. McGrath, Arthur A., e.i. '44, Pvt., U.S.M.C, Platoon 421, R.D., Marine Corps Base, San Diego, Calif. HcHnch, PhUip L., e-x. '40, Lt. (j.g.), USNR, c/o Postmaster. New York City. Hclntyre, James E., '42, A/C, U.S. Army Air Cbrps, Pre-Flight School, Maxwell Field, Ala. McKenna, William S., '40, Lt, U.S. Army, Bush­ncll General Hospital, Brigham City, Utah. 
McLean, Andrew J.. e.x. '41. Pvt., U.S. Army, Btry .B, 374th F.A. Bn.. APO 100, Fort Jack­son, S C 
McLowhlin. Joseph G., e.x. '16, Chief Boatswains Hate, U.S. Maritime Officers School, Hoffman Island. N. Y. 
McNanara, William J., ex. "44, Lt.. U.S. Army. 31st Prov. Bn., A.A.A.T.C., Camp Haan, Calif. 
McNicoL John A., e.-:. '43. A/C. U.S. Army Air Corps, Aviation Cadet Det., A.A.F. B.F.S.. 43-C. Walnut Ridge. Ark. 
Messiek. Joseph H., '39, Sgt.. U.S. Army, Hq. Co., 1st Student Regt., Armored Force School, Fort Knox, Ky. Meyer, Francis J., '37. Ensign. USNR, U.S. Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla. Meyer. James C, '39; Sgt., U.S.M.C.. Unit 1300. c/o Postmaster, Camp Elliott, San Diego, Calif. Miller lUtthew J.. '42, A/C, USNR, Naval Air Training Center, Corpus Christi, Te.'c. MiUer. William H., "30, L t (j.g.). USNR. N.T.S., Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
MUU, Thomas E., •42, S/Sst.. U.S. Army. APO 668, c^o Postmaste r. New York City. 
Mooriiead, John W., ex. '45, U.S. Army Air Corps. 
Box 641, Coral Gables, Fla. 
Moran, J. Bell ex. '06, Major, A.G.D., U.S. Army. Oificer Procurement Service, 1300 Flenobscot BIdK.. Detroit, Hicli. 
Moran, John H.. e.x. •45, A|S, USNR, Co. 42-579, 
N.T.S.. Sin Diego. Calif. 
Morrey. Willard C, '41, Lt., U.S.M.C.. Q.M. Scliaal, School Bn., N.R.T.C., F.M.F., M.B.. New River, N, C. 
Morris. Joseph H., "31, S/Sgt., U.S. Army, Btry. 
C. Bn. 4, Camp Berkeley, Tex. 
Motrissey, Donald M. C. '42, Pvt., U.S. Army, 
U.S. Army Air Base, Ontario, Calif. 
Moss, William B., "SS. Lt. (j.it.), USNR. 
Molvey, Raymond F., ex. ^32, U.S. Coast Guard 
Training Station, Curtis Bay, Md. 
Murdodc, Benedict F., '40, Ensign, USNR. 
Murphy, Francis M., ex. '44, Pvt., U.S. Army, 408th T.S.S. (Sp.), A.C.R.T.C.. Sheppard Field, 
Te.-c. 
Murphy, James P., ^34, Ccpt.. U.S. Army Medical Corps, APO 37, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. 
Murray, Francis J., •se, 1st Lt., U.S. Army Med­ical Corps, S.A.A.C.C., Station Hospital, San Antonio. Tex. 
Neeas, Emmelt J.. •41, Ensign, USNR. 
Neibit, Frederick J., ex. '44, Pvt., U.S. Army, 
106th Ord. Co., Camp Forrest, Tenn. 
Nen, James H.. •42. Pvt., U.S. Army. Sec. L, Battery B, 27th Bn.. 7th Rest., F.A.R.T.C.. Fort Sill, Okla. 
Newbold, Louis F., ex. ^45. U.S. Army Air Corps, 58th Trng. Center, Flight 22, Keesler Field. Miss. 
Neylon, GeorEe M., ex. •30, Pvt.. U.S. Army. Hq. 
33rd Inf. Div.. APO 33, Fort Lewis, Wash. 
Nolan, John H., ^42, Ensign, USNR. Communic::­tions School, Noroton Heights, Conn. Norton, Charles M., •39, FVt.. U.S. Army, 1st Provisional O.U.T.C. Texarkana, Te.x. 
Norton, Francis A., ^32. Pfc, U.S. Army. Co. A. Hdqs. Bn.. O.R.T.C., Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md. 
Oberhofer, Herman J., ex. •42. Ensign, USNR, N.A.T.C, Corpus Christi, Tex. 
O'Boyle, Anthony F.. •37. Pvt,, U.S. Army. Mili­tary Police Section 1247 S.W., New Cumber­land, Pa. 
O'Brien, Eugene L., ^42. Sgt.. U.S. Army, Q.M. Truck Co., Co. F. 7th Q.M. Trng. Regt.. Camp Lee, Va. 
O'Brien, Frank D., ex. '3S. Sat. U.S. Army. 260th C.A.(A.A.), Box 28. McChord Field, Wash. 
O'Connor, J=mes C , Jr.. '29. Lt. U.S. Army, APO 696. c^o Postmaster, New York City. 
Odcn, Edward C , e.x. '44, U.S. Army Air Service. Santa Ann, Calif. 
O'Donohoe, James E., '42, U.S. Army, Co. A, R.R.C., 1609th S.U., Bks 1020. Ft. Custer. Mich. 
O'Hanlon, Jchn R., '34, 1st Lt., U.S. Army Signal Corps, The Pentagon, OC. Sig. O., Washington, 
D. G. 
O'Hayer, Robert E., ex. "42, Pvt., U.S. Army Hq. Co., Supply Bn., 3rd Armored Div., Camp Polk, La, 
Orosz, Gerald C , '42, A/C. USNR, Naval Flight Prep Schoo'. Bks. 1. R.Ti. 301-B. DePauw Uni­versity, Greencastle, Ind. 
O'Roarke, John K.. e.x. •42, USNR. Nrival Flight Prep School, Stuyvesant Hall, Del-ware, O. 
Panlmann, Frederick H., ^42. Corp. U.S. Army Signal Corps, Co. B, Warrenton, Va. Philbin. Edmund P.. •34, Pvt,, U.S. Army, APO' 715, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco. Calif. 
PoKEiani. Tino J.. 'iC. Lt., USNR, Naval Con­struction Training Center, Camp Fteary. Wil­liamsburg, Va. 
Pohl, Robert E.. Jr., '41, Pvt., U.S. Army, Hq. 104 Div., Officers Section, Camp Ad::ir, Ore. Pollnow Francis J., '42. Ensign, USNR. 
Ponath. Robert A.. e.x. ^43. Corp., U.S. Army. 1st Bn., Hdqs. Co., 3S6th Inf., APO 445. Camp Swift Tex. 
Quinlan. Charles R.. ex. •43. Y3C. USNR. Petty Officer. 50 Church St.. New York City. Quinlan. John V.. '33. SIC. U.S. Coast Guard Training Station. Gloucester. Mass. 
Rabbett. Gerard J.. •42. Ensign. USNR. c/o Fleet Post Office. New York City. Reddy. Charles S., ^39, Ensign USNR. Naval 
Armed Guard, Advance Depot, Gulfport, Miss, Reilly, Peter J., '40, U.S. Army, Washington D.C. Rumely, Leo M., Jr., ex. '44, U.S. Army Air 
Corps, Hoff General Hospital. Santa Barbara. Calif. 
Rush. James G.. ex. ^42, A/C, U,S. Army Air Corps. 58 A-A.F.T.C, Sqdn A, Bks. 2, Orange­burg, S. C. 
Ryan. Vinctnt J.. '40, Pvt.. U.S. Army. F.R.T.C.. Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. 
Sallows. Daniel F., ^40. Ensign. USNR, Naval Training School, Hanover, N. H. Saxon. Earl M.. e-x. •44. FVt.. U.S. Army. Co. B. 78th Armd. Med. Bn., APO 258, Camp Polk. La. Scfaaefer, Gerard G.. •SS. Pfc.. U.S. Army. 33rd T.S.S., Bks. 642. Lowry Field. Colo. 
Scfaleck. Everhart J., ex. '45. Pvt.. U.S. Army. Co. H. 5 Q.M.T.R., Fort Frcncis E. Warren. Wyo. 
Schram. Richard A., ex. 'Z9. Lt. (j.B.). USNR. Naval Air Station. Glenview. 111. 
Schrenker. Paul E., 'se. Ensign. USNR. U.S.S. New Jersey, Bldg. 83, Navy Yard, Philadelphia. Pa. 
Schwartz George A,, ex. •45, Lt., U,S. Army. APO 4015. c/o Postmaster. New York City. 
Scott. Harry E., ex. "43. Lt.. U.S. Army. 14th Troop Sqdn.. 61st Trcop Carrier, Pope Field, Fort Bragg, N. C. 
Sexton, W. Lawrence. '33, Lt. (j.g.). USNR. Shanley, Edward P.. ex. '26. Sgt., U.S. Army, 
65th General Hospital, Fort Brasg. N. C. Shanley. Frederick J.. '35. Ensign. USNR. Shea, Joseph B., '26. Pvt., U.S. Army, 3rd Bn.. 
Staging Area. Fort Lawton. Wash." Sheridan. Philip F., ex. '40. Ensign. USNR. Naval Air Station, Jacksonville. Fla. 
Sherman, Wilton J.. '31. Capt., U.S. Army. 1st Armored Tank Div.. Officers Training School. Fort Knox. Ky. 
Sitko, Emil M.. ex. '46. A.S.. USNR. Co. 870. N.T.S.. Great Lakes. 111. Skoczylas, Joseph S., e.x. '38. Ctpt.. U.S.M.C™ Unit 275. c/o Postmaster. San Francisco. Calif. Slattcry, Jarlath M.. '31. Lt. (j.g.). USNR. 
Smith, Ezra J., e.x. '44, Lt., U.S. Army Air Corps, 324 Fighter Sqdn., 327 Fighter Group, Rich­mond. Va. 
Sobecki. Raymond C . ex. '31, In ser\'ice. 
Sobek, Joseph J., ex. '45. A/C, U.S. Army Air Corps, Sqdn. 104, A.A.F.C.C., S.A.A.C.C., San Antonio, Tex. 
Specht, John H., e.x. '42, Pvt., U.S. Army, 12th 
F.A. Ohsn. Bn., Camp Forrest, Tenn. 
Spiane. John F,. ex. '43, Ensign, USNR, Navy Pilot. N-A.S.. Norfolk. Va. SpKBSer. Fred A., ex. '30. Lt. (j.E.). USNB, Public Relations Office. NJ^.S.. Dallas. Tex. Stack, Daniel J.. Jr., '4I,.Lantana Field, Tjintana. Fla. Staaber, Jchn H.. '42. Ensign. USNR. e/o Fleet Fcst Office, San Francisco. Calif. StieciMycr. Tfccmas L.. ex. '46. A.S., USNR, N.T.S.. Co. 178. 3rd Bn.. Great Lakes. III. Straab. Walter J„ '34. T/5. U.S. Army. Hq Det.. 
10th QJI.T.R., Camp Lee. Va. Stathitti, WIHU M C . ex. '42. In service. SaniTaa. Chester N., '40. U.S. Army Air Corps, 
Officers Candidate School. Hiami Beach. Fla. SuUlTan. Daniel C '41. USNR Midshipmen's School. New York CSty. Saltan, Jahn L., '39. A/C. U.S. Army Air Corps, Pre-Flight School. Maxwell Field. Ala. Szikora. Joseph W.. ex. '42. U.S. Army. Fine Camp. N. Y. Talbaani, Edward, ex. '45, Pvt., U.S. Army, Co. 
A. Ist Platoon. 29th Med. Trng. Bn..' Camp 
Grant. III. Tambciclll. Raaacll R . e-x. '40. A.S„ USNR. Co. 
471. N.T.S.. Newport. R. L Tancney, John P.. '38. Ensign. USNB. Navy Dept., Office of Chief of Naval Operations, Washington, D. C. Tanscy. JanMs O., '36. U.S. Navy. A. * N.. 
Y.H.C-A.. City Square. Charleston. Mass. Tasia, Enriqas, ex. *44. In service. Taylor, Sehert C ex. '44, Flight Officer, U.S. 
Army Air Corps. 13th Anti-Submarine Sqdn.,. Grenier Field. Manchester. N. H. 
Tessars, Edward A., ex. '44. Sgt., U.S. Army Air Corps, G.C.G.T.P.. Sqdn. C. AJUA.C.C.. Saa Antonio. Tex. 
Tkombuv. Joseph R.. '38. 2nd Lt.. MJ^.C. Ticman. Robert J.. '40. Midshipm::n. USNB Midshipmen's School. 1324 John Jay Rail New York City. Tiemey. Michael J., '21. Major. 119 North Main St.. Salt Lake City. Utah. Undertiner. Bernard W., '41, Ensign. USNR. Callatin Hzll E-31. Soldiers Field Station. Bos­ton. Mass. 
Vancen. Wa'ard R., ex. '45. E2C. USNR. e/o Fleet Post Office. San Francisco. Calif. 
Walker. Thamas J.. '42. Ensign. USNR. N.T.S.. Dartmouth College. Hanover. N. H. 
Walker, Willis B., '40. Ensign. USNR. Thayer M-9. Naval Training School, Harvard Univer­sity. Cambridge. Mass. 
Wasllewikl. Bernard A.. '42. Pvt.. U.S. Army, Co. B. 17th Trng. Bn., Fort McClellsn. Ala. Waters. William H , Jr., '39. Lt. (j.g.) USNB. Welter, John F., '39, Pvt.. U.S. Army. APO 961. c/o Postmaster. San Francisco. Calif. Weir, Wmiain C '32. U.S. Army. Weitzel. Laws U.. ex. '44. Royal Can::dian Air Force, 
Wenlcer. Frederick 1~, '33. Lt. (j.g.) USNB. Navy 609. c/o Fleet Post Office. San Francisco. Calif. 
Whplan, Jawph W„ '27. Capt. JJV.G.D.. APO 8716. c/o Postnuster. New York City. White. Jaae* A., '41, Pvt.. U.S. Army. 394th Inf.. AFO 449. Div. 99. Camp Van Dom. Hiss. 
Widap Richard E.. ex. '42. 1st Lt.. U.S. Army. Armorers Section. Ordnance UnitTraining Cen­ter. Camp Santa Anita. Calif. 
WilHaamin. Jave* T.. '30. U.S. Army, Co. C, 728 M.P. Bn.. 21700 Joy Bo-d. Biver Rouge Park. Detroit. Mich. 
Windhcim, Robert G.. ••10, P\t.. U.S. Army, Btry. 
C, 273rd F.A. Bn., Camp Beale, Calif. 

WisdinU. Joseph N., '35, Pfc, U.S. Array, APO 
525,- c/o Postmaster, New York City. 

Witkowski. Vernon J., Ml. Ensiim. USXR. 3700 
Cumberland St., N.W.. Washington. D. C. 

Witucki, BcmanI F., ex. '34. U.S. Na\-y Pre-
Flisht School, Chapel Hill. N. C. 

Wnpe , H. Edwmrd. •3S. Ensisn. USXR. 4944 
Locust St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Wrilht, Edward A., '32, Pvt.. U.S. Army. 929th 
B.T.S.. Kirtland Field, Albuquerque. N. Me.\. 

Wuebbold. Walton J., '40, Midshipraan, USNR 
Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame. Ind. 

Wurzer. Lincoln E., '35, Ensijrn, USNR. George­
town University, Washington, D. C. 

Yaeeer. John E., '40, M/Sgt.. U.S. Army, 84th 
Inf. Div. Hq. Co., G-2 Section, Camp Howze, 
Te-N. 

Yorke. Edward T., '30, 1st Lt., U.S. Army Medical 
Corps, Atlanta, Ga. 

Yonnsen, John P.. '34, Ensign, USNR, N.T.S.(I), 
41006. Fort Schuyler, Bronx. New York Citj-. 

Zimmer Rattdd E.. '42, Pvt., U.S. -A-rmy, Tilton General Hospital, Med. Det., Bks. I, Fort Dix, 
N. J. 
ALUMNI RELIGIOUS BULLETIN 
(Continued from page 2) 

progressive, leading down and back to Roman degradation. New? They're ludicrously old, just re­hashing practices of degraded Rome. 
MADAME CHIANG KAI-SHEK TEACHES HISTORY 
For a quick review of Roman history, glance at Madame Chiang Kai-Shek's re­cent Madison Square Garden talk: ". . . the Roman Empire, its fall was due among other things to the sybaritic 
[sensual] and effete practices indulged in by the Roman people. In the declining days of the Empire . . . they themselves wallowed in sensualism which culminat­ed in the total eclipse of the Roman Em­pire." 
Funny, aren't they, these educators when they claim to be new and progi-es­sive? They say: "Don't follow the old-fashioned standards for sex and mar­riage. Follow us!" Leading entertainers and authors (the educators' bed-mates, both using same bunk) shout: "Sure, purity and clean-living is narrow, old-fashioned and unscientiiic, too. Read what the profs say! Follow us — or wallow with us way back to the sensual­ism of the Roman days. We'll show you the way — if you pay!" 
What these teachers don't know about sex and happy marriage would fill a di­vorce court — and does. Their present batting record is one divorce out of every five marriages. 
KEEP THE FAITH! 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
THE S. S. KNUTE ROCKNE IS LAUNCHED 
The Liberty sliip S. S. Knute Bockne is christened on May 6, at the Kaiser Shipyards, Richmond, Calif., by Joan Shaw, daughter of Lawrence T. "Buck" Shaw, '22, Santa Clara coach. Standing, left to right toward the back are: Keene Fitzpotriclc '15, San Francisco advertising man; Marchmont Schwartz, '32, Stanford coach: Rev. Leo Powel­son, who delivered the invocation; C. Bill Leiser, sports writer: Joan Shaw and Patricia Shaw, her sister. 
Keene and Marchie, representing Mrs. Bockne, the University and the Notre Dame 
Club of Northern California, both spoke on former was chairman. Buck Shaw released down the ways. 
101 N. D. MEN IN FBI 

One hundred and one Notre Dame Sfi-aduates were special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation of the United States Department of Justice when a report was received from the Bureau headquarters, Washington, D. C, in late March. 
The 101 Notre Dame men were the following: 
D. L. Allen. '37: F. W. Armstrong. 'Si; J. D. Beach. '35: H. B. Behrmann. "32: E. L. Boyle, "38: W. A. Branigan. '38; J. A. Breen, '35; D. 
E. Brennan, '34: F. E. Bright, '39: R. T. Burke. "36; J. F. Burns, '40: R. C. Byrnes. 'So; J. F. Callaghan, '40: J. A. Canale, '38: A. F. Carey, 
•35:
 W. P. Carroll. '33: E. M. Chamberlain, '41: 

L.
 T. Clark, "32: J. B. Condon, "35: L. K. Cook, 

•31:
 J. J. Dcane. '39; S. L. Devine. '40; J. J. Doermer, '40: J. B. Dwyer, '37. 

R.
 H. Esan. '38: H. R. Ellis, '40: E. G. Pitch, '32: A. B. Fipp, '40: T. W. Flynn. '35: 1. E. Foley. '31: H. G. Foster. '39: C. S. Gass. '30; E. 

J.
 Gebben. '26: E. F. Grogan. '39: J. G. Groves, 

•32:
 E. W. Halloran, '30: J. T. Harrington. '30: 

J.
 Joseph Henry, "34; R. N. Hosteny, '33: R. B. Jehring. '41: N. M. Kalmes. '32: John F. Kelly. 

•40:
 J. J. Killen, "41: J. H. Kirby, •SG: J. J. Klise. ^38: J. O. Lang. "41: J. C. Letcher, "40: 


 the program, which was broadcast. The  the trigger which started the new ship 
R. P. Lewis, '33: J. J. Locher, '35: S. E. Locher. '33. 

J. J. Mannion, '35: J. J. Matthews, ^35: F. W. Matthys. ^35: C. P. McDonald, •27: J. G. McGold­rick, ^39; C. L. McGowan. ^37: D. T. McLaughlin. '36; Joseph P. McMahon, '37 : J. R. McQueen, '40: 
W. P. McVay, '40: T. J. Minogue. '40: W. B. Mooney. '41: J. V. Moran. '30 : J. L. Mulhall, '32: 
J. M. Murphy, •SS: L. C. Nulty, "33: J. C. O^Con­nor, "39: J. P. O'Connor. '32: W. J. O^Connor, 
•35:
 J. J. Oitzinger, "34: J. I. O^Neill, ^37: F. S. Pittman, "39; W. J. Powell. '34: F. E. Powers, "39. 

B.
 S. Reardon, '38: R. E. Richardson. '41: W. 


H.
 Robinson, '38: W. J. Rockenstein, '34: J. J. Rogers. '40: O. E. Scherer. '38: J. P. Sheedy, '37: 

J.
 L. Sheeketski. '33: J. A. Smith, M.A. '34: W. 

A.
 Stewart. '33; C. E. Stine. '41; D. J. Sullivan. '37: B. A. Swanser, '40: A. J. Tuohy, '31: J. R. Vicars. '38: G. G. Vlk. '31: J. F. Wacks. '35: P. 

J.
 Wacks. '30: T. V. Wade. 'iS: 3. A. Waldron, '37: T. H. Waldron. '34: P. A. V. Walker, '36: J. 

W.
 Watters, '36; R. C. Weaver, '38: J. H. Wilson, 

•39;
 E. H. Winterrowd, '39: J. R. Zerbst. '38. 


Leland Walker, M.S. '31, Niles, Mich., is now a member of the Mathematics faculty at Notre Dame. He was formerly head of the Mathematics Department in the Niles High School. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
»

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Audrey St. Raymond and All»«rt L. Vitter, "So. The marriage will take place on June 19, in New Orleans, La. 
Miss Eileen Walsh and Stanley R. Sheeran, 
M.S. 'SO. of NiaKara Falls, N. Y. 
Miss Joan Jule Kovacs and Richard J. Stef­fanlak, '40, of Camp Lee, Va. 
Marriages 
Tne marriase of Mrs. Margaret Walsh Hanley snd Willimm M. White. '21. took place recently in Peru, III. 
Miss Martha Richardson and Lt. Edward F. O'Malley, *32. were married on April 10, at An­napolis, Md. 
The marriage of Miss Mary Catherine Redmond and Lt. John J. McGrath, '35. took place recently. 
Miss Eileen Marie Boland and Ensign Lincoln Warzer, U.S.N.B., *35, were married on April 30. in Washington. D. C. 
The marriage of Miss Elizabeth Ann Russell and Ensign William I. Lynch, U.S.N.R., '37. took place on April 24, in Cambridge, Mass. 
Miss Mary Catherine Murphy and Ensign Paul Nowak were married in Akron, O., on May 29. 
Miss Virginia Mary Wolf and Lt. Lawrence 
A. Doyle, U.S.A.. '39, were married on May 8. in Chicago. 
The marriage of Miss Helen Agatha Walker and Charles J. Flanigan, '39, took place on April 28, in Troy, N. Y. 
The marriage of Miss Marjorie Ann Morrison and Ensisn Frank A. Reppenhagen, U.S.C.G.R., 
•39, took place on April 10. in Buffalo, N. Y. 
Miss Ann E. Abell and Lt. (j.g.) William J. Faymonville. U.S.N.R., '40. were married on Dec. 29, in Smithfield. N. C. 
Miss Mariam Irene Lutz and Ensign Joseph P. Cammings, U.S.N.R., '40, were married on Nov. 
4. in Brooklyn. N. Y. 
Miss Helen Hamilton Dunning and Lt. Paul E. Hickey, IT.S.A., '40. were married on April 7, in Auburn. N. Y. 
The marriage of Miss Marion Chamblin and J. Clifford Letcher, *40, took place on March 8. in Washington. D. C. 
Miss Dorothy Agnes DeMers and Ensign Wil­liam J. Mahar, U.S.N.R., '40, were married on May 8. in Rochester, N. Y. 
The marriage of Miss Rosemary Carrere and Ensiffn H. Charles Thomas, U.S.N.R., '40. took place on March 27, in Quonset Point, R. I. Lt. (j.g.) Thomas F. Durkin, U.S.N.R., '37. ser\-ed at the nuptial Mass. 
Miss Angela Raquel Forte and William S. Thomas, '40. were married on April 24. in Jack­son Heights, N. Y. 
The marriage of Miss Margaret Nunn and Ensign Richard E. Ball, U.S.N.R., *4i; took place on March 20. in New Rochelle. N. Y. 
Miss Jeane Aicher and Joseph E. Broussard, '41, were married in Oak Park. 111., on May 29. Mr. Broussard is the son of Clyde E. Broussard. '13. 
Miss Betty Farley and John J. Hanniffan. '41. were married on April 26. in Peru, 111. 
The marriage of Miss Mary Rita Moran and 
J. Maxwell Hill. *41. took place on May 1, in Charleston, W. Va. 
Miss Ruth Ann Nolen and Lt. Patrick D. Putnam. A.A.C., '41, were married on May 6. at Selman Field. Monroe, La. 
Miss Mary Jane Cagney and Sgt. John J. Ward, Jr., *41, were married in Chicago on May 1. Edward J. Kelly, '41, Y2C. U.S.N.R.. was the best man. 
The marriage of Miss Irene Putzenski and Ensign Robert C. Maddock, U.SJif.R., *42, took place on March 31, in New York City. 
Miss Mcrtha Virginia Earp and Lt. Daniel D. Canale, '42, both of Memphis, were married on May 23. . 
The marriage of Sue Ursula Grace and William 
E. Mangan. *42, took place on May 1. in Charles­ton, W. Va. 
Miss Mary Ethel Voss and Lt. Donald J. Martin, U.S.M.C., '42, were married recently in Washing­ton, D. C. 
"Hie marriage of Miss Marjorie Carufel and Herbert G. Nilles, '42, took place on May IS, in Fargo, N. D. 
Miss Ruth Ann Shelare and Ensign Thomas J. Walker, U.S.N.R., '42. were married on May 1, in New York City. Ensign Walker is the son of Postmaster General Frank C. Walker, *09. 
The marriage of Miss Elizabeth Laird and Ensign Louis F. Kurtz, U.S.N.R. '43, took place on May 8, in Des Moines. la. 
Miss Jane Alice Hanahan and Bernard J. Tumock, '43. were married on May 2, in South Bend. 
Miss Shirley Jean Zahrt and Leonard Edward Barkowski, ex. *44, were married recently in South Bend. 
Birfhs 
Mr. and Mrs. Wilfred T. Dwyer, *22, of Mil­waukee. Wis., announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Helena, on April 9. 
A daughter was born to Mr. and Mrs. Hush F. Blunt, *24, on April 13, in Brockton, Mass. 
Mr. and Mrs. William K. Dwyer. '28. announce the birth of a daughter. Nancy Eleanor, on April 
7. in Milwaukee. 
A daughter, Mary Anne, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Leo M. Mclntyre. '28 Bethlehem, Pa., on April 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome J. Crowley, *3l, announce the birth of a daughter on March 30, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Fetretic, *32, announce the birth of a daughter, Carol Ann, on April 21. in South Bend. 
A daughter was bom to Ensign and Mrs. Arthar L. Conrad, on May 5, in Chicago. 
A son. John Michael, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. C. JMcph Kalaun, '37, on Oct. 25, in Hack­ensack, N. J. 
Capt. and Mrs. William A. Lieser, *37. of Can­' ton, O.. announce the birth of a son. William Daniel, on April 13. 
Lt. and Mrs. Jaaes A. Hoalder, *37. announce the birth of a daughter, Kathleen Ann. on April 25, in Buffalo. N. Y. 
A daughter. Sharon, was bom to Lt. and Mrs. John R. Kelley, *38. on Feb. 14. in Danvers, Mass. 
A son. Barry, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Earl 
M. Brawn, '39, recently in Boston. 
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel M. Harphy, *39. of Marion, O., announce the birth of a son, John Martin, on Jan. 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward F. Siraonidi, '39, an­nounce the birth of a son recently, in Helena. Mont. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Walter 
L. Dray, *40. on April 10. in South Bend. 
Donna Marie was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Donald Marietta. *40. on March 7, in Niagara Falls, N. Y. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph 
J. Saitta, *40, on April 7. in South Bend. 
Ensign and Mrs. J. Richard Kerrican, '41. of Lincoln. III., announce the birth of a daughter, Patricia Anne, on March 31. 
Deaths 
John L. Herman, '91, of South Bend, a faith­ful and generous member of the Alumni Associa­tion for many years, died in his home on April 
12. an hour after a heart attack. Bom in Evans­ville. Mr. Herman was for years an attorney for the Thomas Cuasack Company of Chicago. He had practiced law in South Bend for the past 25 years. Sur\-iving him are three sons and two daughters. 
Dr. Rafael Lopez-Nossa, a well known surgeon and cancer specialist in S?n Juan. Puerto Rico, died on March 3 in San Juan. He was a Notre Dame student at the turn of the century. Surviv­ing him are his wife and two daughters. 
Walter M. Daly, *04, president of the Title and 'Trust Company of Portland, Ore., died on May 19 according to word sent to his good friend and classmate, Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago. 
Prominent throughout Oregon as a leading fig­ure in the mortgage loan business, Mr. Daly was outstanding in Portland, not only in business but in many civic enterprises. He was treasurer of 
the Security Abstract Company, then helped to organize, and finally becama president of, the Title and Trust Company. 
ThouRh far removed from the campus, Mr. Daly had remained close to the school throuph corre­sjjondence, and he was a steEdf::st memLer of the Alumni Association as well as of the local Notre Dams Club. 
Dillon J. Patterson, '20. one of South Bend's best known citizens, died suddenly on April 14 after an illness of only three days. 
Pat's activities were practically innumerable. He was general agent for the Northwestern Na­tional Life Insurance Company as well as presi­dent of the South Bend Life Underwriters* Asso­ciation. An outstanding musician at Notre Dcme and afterwards, he was a prominent theater or­ganist and organist for the South Bend Elks. and president of South Bend Federation of Musi­cians, local No. 278. He was always active in the affairs of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Vallei', ser\-ing as president of the club in li'38­39. 
A member of the track team at Notre Dame and a monogram winner in 191S-1919. Pat re­mained close to the University's athletic pro­gram. He was an official at nearly all the home track meets since his graduation, and had missed only three of Notre Dame's home football games since 1920. An accomplished three-cushion bil­liard player, he had recently won the singles championship of the local Elks. He was a mem­ber of the Knights of Columbus, the Izaak Wal­ton League and a charter member and former president of the Kiwanis Club in Mishawaka. 
Surviving Fat are his wife: his son, John, a present student at Notre Dame; a daughter, Anne; and a brother, George A.. '23, of Chicago. 
Walter A. Kramer, ex. *20. Kansas City, Mo„ died in May after a long illness. He was general purchasing agent of the Columbian Steel Tank Co. Sur\*iving him are his wife and one son. 

The "Alumnus" missed completely news of the death of Frank M. Franciscovich, *21, Astoria. Ore. According to Pete Champion. *22, Cleveland (see 1922 news, this issue), recently returned from the West Coast, Frank has been dead for the past eight months or more. Pete talked from Portland with Mrs. Franciscovich who told him that Frank was acting governor of Oregon at the time of his death. The "Alumnus" has written for further details of Frank's death and will publish them under class news in the next issue of the magazine. 
Rev. William A. Scnllcn. LL.D. '27, long a close friend of Notre Dame and active in Notre Dame programs, both on the campus and in Cleveland, died in Cleveland in late March. Hev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.. president of the Univer­sity, attended his funeral. 
Father Scullen's baccalaureate sermon at the Commencement of 1927 is still a highlight among Notre Dame baccalaureate sermons. 
A brilliant scholar. Father Scullen studied in Rome and was ordained there in 1907. From 1909 until 1921 he ser\'ed as secretary and chancellor of the diocese of Cleveland. He was pastor of Holy Name Church, Cleveland, from 1922 until his death. 
John F. Dubaisson, '30, city judge of Opelou­sas. La., died suddenly in his home on May 12, the victim of a heart attack. 
John received his law degree from Louisiana State and had served in Opalousas as commission­er of the federal court until he was elected city judge in 1936 for a six-year term. He was re­elected in 1942. 
Out of respect to John's memory, the district court of Opelousss. presided over by his class­mate. Judge Kenneth Bocgr.i, '30, cancelled its regular session on the day of the funeral. 
Surviving John are his wife, three sm~ll daugh­ters, his parents, and six brothers end three sisters. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to 
Dr. Thomas N., '21, and Msffr. Fulton J. Sheen, 
LL.D.
 *41. upon the death of their mother; Thom­as E. Garden, *21, ipon t'e death of his mother; Brother Jacob, C.S.C.. *31, upon the death of his mother; Corp. Francis J. Kelly, '32. upon the death of his father; 2nd Lt. Julian W. Qninn, *34, upon the death of his father; Thomas R. Bnlcer, '39, upon the death of his mother: John 

A.
 Zcindler, ex. *42. upon the death of his father. 



Serving in civilian defense work, Arthur C. Smith, Jr., '33, of Chicago, a seaman first class in the Coast Guard Reserve, was drowned on May 12 when he fell from a patrol boat in the Chicago River. Other coast g^iardsmen attempted to rescue him but could not find the body until an hour after the accident. 
Surviving Art are his wife, two sons and his parents. In civilian life he was manager of the East Lake Envelope Co., Chicago. 
Corp. Daniel J. Sullivan, ex. '36, 

Springfield, Mass., brother of Lt. (j.g.) 
John B. Sullivan, USNR, '29, was killed 
in action in North 
Africa on March 
23. He had been awarded the Ar­my's Silver Star fo r gallantry i n action. 
Dan was at Notre Dame for three years, then attended Columbia University, Ne w
Corp. Sullivan 

York City, and was employed by the Globe Printing Co., New York City, when he enlisted in the Army in January, 1941. A second broth­er, 1st Lt. Philip W. Sullivan, is in the Marines. 
Pierre De La Vergne, '38, a cadet in the Navy Air Corps, was killed on May 20 in a crash of two planes over Pensa­cola Bay. Stationed at Pensacola, Fla., he would have completed his training and received his ensign's commission within two weeks. 
Pierre's mother, four older brothers (including Charles E. '25, and Jules K. '33) and two sisters survive him. He had finished in law at Tulane in 1941. In the Navy he was trained at Athens, Ga., and at Anacostia, D. C, before he was sent to Pensacola. 
Ralph G. Winsfield, '40, Lynchburg, Va., met his death while on naval patrol 
FOR GOD. COUNTRY. NOTRE DAME 
IN GLORY EVERLASTING 
duty, according to a telegram sent to Father William T. Craddick, C.S.C, prefect of religion, by Edward V. Drink­ard, '44, also of Lynchburg. Details were lacking when this was written. Ralph's latest military address on the Alumni Office records was Corpus Christi, Texas. 
Lt. Edward H. Phelan, Jr., eX. '40, 
Whittier, Calif., was killed in action on March 22 while flying a B-25 bomber attached to the Middle Eastern Com­mand. He had seen almost constant ac­tion in the drive of General Montgomery from El Alamein. His family has re­ceived his Purple Heart award from the War Department. 
LT. EDWARD H. PHELAN, JK., EX. '40 

Ed was at Notre Dame for two years in pre-med, then enrolled at the Univer­sity of California at Davis. He entered the Army Air Corps in the spring of 1941 and was commissioned in March, 1942, after receiving his training at the Ryan School of Aeronautics, San Diego, and at Moflfett Field and Stockton Field. Surviving him are his parents, three sisters and a brother. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
LIEUT. JAMES L. CARROLL, EX. '40 
Lt. James L. Carroll, ex. '40, Charles­ton, S. C , was killed on March 12. News of his death was carried in the April "Alumnus." 
Capt. Douglas C. Weaver, ex. '40, Miamisburg, 0., brother of Sgt. Rex. Weaver, '38, was killed on May 7 with all his crew when the Mitchell bomber which he commanded was lost in a raid on Japanese-held Canton, China. In more than 70 missions and nearly one year of operation, it was the first plane lost in combat by its squadron. 
Doug attended Notre Dame for one year, then transferred to Ohio State. 
Pfc. Joseph A. O'Brien, ex. '40, Springfield, Mass., member of an ar­mored infantry unit, was killed in action in North Africa on April 23. After at­tending Notre Dame for two years Joe transferred to the American Interna­tional College, where he received a B.S. degree in 1940. He was employed by the Railway Express Agency before he en­tered service in June, 1942. A brother, Francis C. O'Brien, is in Coast Guard training at Manhattan Beach, N. Y. 
Ensign James O. Schultheis, ex. '41, Vincennes, Ind., died on April 18 of a fractured skull received in the perform­ance of his duty. He was buried tempor­arily near the scene of the injury, pre­sumably in the South Pacific. Jim was at Notre Dame in 1937-39, then attended Indiana University for two years. He had this naval indoctrination work at Notre Dame last summer, and w*as grad­uated as an ensign from Abbott Hall, Chicago, last fall. Subsequently he had special sub chaser training at Miami. 
ENSIGN JOHN G. CASEY, '41 
Ensign John G. Casey, '41, Jordan, Minn., a naval flyer, was reported on May 18 as having been killed in action in the Pacific. He and his wife had lived in Coronado, Calif., until March, when John was ordered into Pacific action with his squadron. He had received much of his air training at Corpus Christi, Tex­as, Miami, Fla., and Glenview, 111. He was commissioned at Corpus Christi, on Sept. 11, 1941. 
John was the first casualty of the present war in his home community. Memorial services were held for him there, in the Church of St. John the Baptist, on June 5. Surviving him are his wife, his parents and three brothers and three sisters. 
Edward J. Brockman, ex. '45, Glen­coe. 111., a naval aviation cadet, was killed on April 10, together with his in­structor, when their plane crashed near Middleton, Wis. Ed was at Notre Dame from September, 1941, to December, 1942, when he left to join the Navy. Sur­viving him are his parents and three brothers. 
MAAS NOT DEAD 

The "Alumnus" ened in ita April iuue in printing news ol the sup­posed death oi Copt John B. Maas. 
Jr.. ex. '42. U. S. 
M. C B.. Grosse P o i n t e, tCch. Happilr John was, at the last report, very much alive, ac­cording to his 

JOHN' B. MAAS, JR., EC. "42 
father: he had four Zeros to his credit and had been awarded the DJ'.C i£s ad­dress is VMM. - 112. MJLG. - II. Fleet Post Office. San Fiandsco. 
JOHN T. CULLEN WRITES OF NOTRE DAME IN THE 70s 
(The "Alumnus" is privileged to print here the inspirinx letter received by Father Hash O'DonncU from John T. CuUen, Lafayette. Ind., a Notre Dame stadent in the eariy *70s. Of all the expressions brousht forth by the Centenary- of the University this one by Mr. CnUen is doabtless amonc the most heart-warminE. Mr. Callen is one of the oldest living former stodents of Notre Dame, if not the 
oldest.—Eds.) 
Reverend and dear Father:— From September, 1873 until June. 1874 and from October 1874 to May, 18.5. I was a student at Notre Dame. A malarial trouble during vaca­tion in 1S74 delayed my return to the Univer­sity. Another malarial trouble attacked me during^ April. 1875, while at the University, and devel­oped into typhoid fever, which so weakened me that I was compelled to give up my studies and so home, much to my regret. 
During my sickness I was given the kindliest attention by the Sisters and Faculty. Father Colovin. our President, visited me every day. The expanse of my sickness together with the severe business depression then prevailing so depleted my father's assets that he was no longer able to send me to college. 
I then learned tele^jrrphy and entered the service of the Wabash Railroad Company during July of 1876. retiring from the seni'ice of the same company as chief train despitcher during October, 1934. I am living here with my brother and sisters. I did not marry. I am 85 years old, and my health is not good. But I thank God every day for having granted me such a long life. 
The years which I spent at Notre Dame are among the happiest of my long life. Among the professors whoss classes I attended. I recall the names of Michnel A. J. Baasen, Dennis A. Clark.. 
James F. Edwards, William J. Ivers, Joseph A. Lyons. Thomrs F. O'Mahoney. Arthur J. Stace and Lucius J. Tong. 
Among the students. I recall the names of Andrew Morrissey. a recent Irish emigrant, later president of Notre Dame; William P. Breen of Fort Wayne, later a prominent attorney and business man whose name adorns one of Notre Dame's beautiful residence halls; John G. Ewing of Lancaster. Ohio, member of a prominent Ohio family, later a professor of Notre Dame; Everett 
G. Graves of San Antonio, Texas, later a Texas land surveyor; and Nathan J. Mooney of Amboy. Illinois, later ordained priest at Rome, afterwards served the Church in Chicago. He died early in life. 
In memory of the hrppy years I spent at Notre Dame, I enclose a donation of Five Hundred Dollars, which I trust will assist you to some ex­tent in directing the affairs of the University during the difficult years ahead. 
Praying God to grant to you and to the other members of the Faculty health, strength, and the assistance of His grace to enable you to conduct the University through the most unhappy period of American history. I am. with highest personal regards. 
Yours respectfully, 
John T. Cullen 
Personals 
 J. A. MacKunara. '97, 
Saint Joorph's Hineral Bat!u. Hoant Clemens, Midi. 
1890-99 RcT, 
Fatiier HacKamara when he wrote in early May expected to leave Mt. Clemens within a few days for Bel Air, Md., to spend the time until July 4 with his sister. The Maryland address, in case you have pressing news, is Box 107, Bel Air. 
Arthur P. Hudson, '95, attorney of Charleston, 
W. Va., and for many years the leading Notre Dame figure in that area, was recently named co-receiver of the Fidelity Assurance Association of Wheeling. W. Va. 
Dr. F. E. BouzM, White River. S. D.. superin­tendent of the Board of Health in Melette Count­ty, was a Notre Dame student in the late lS90's. Recently he wrote this letter to the "Scholastic": "Late in the fall of '98 or early in 1S99 occurred the death of Newton A. Preston, head of the University Department of Music. In tribute to this splendid gentleman. Frank Earle Hering com­posed a beauiful poem. 
"I will appreciate the favor if you will send me a copy of this tribute to Professor Preston. I had the bound volume, of the 'Scholastic' containing this, but have lost it. 
"TTianking you sincerely, and hoping that Notre Dame is prosi>ering, I am." 
"Ihe "Scholastic" was, of course, glad to send Dr. Booza a copy of the poem which he wanted. 
I yUD-U y '•'J, N«tn» Dune, Ind. 
Ernest M. Morris, South Bend, is the proud grandfather of Ernest Morris Oare. born March 29. 
Most Rev. John F. Noll. LL.D.. 'la. bishop of Fort Wayne, recenty wrote an admirable letter to Drew Pearson. Washington columnist, in con­tradiction of the latter's charges that Ftostmas­ter General Frank C. Walker In banning many indecent publications from the mails was being influenced by the National Organization for De­cent Literature. 
 Michael L. Moriarty. 8215 S t 
Clair Ave., Cleveland. O. 
1910 Rcr. 
Charles Fahy, solicitor general of the United States, recently told 800 members of the Wash­ington, D. C , chapter of the International Fed­eral of Catholic Alumnae that the United States must police the world after the war is over "to maintain amity and justice through international cooperation in friendship." 
 Fred L. Steers, 110 S. Dearborn St., 
m
l 
I Suite 1220, Chica^, 111, 
Freddie Steers, the class sec, announced the removal of his law office to 110 S. Dearborn St., Chicago. Suite 1220, effective May 1. 
I ^ I P James E. Sanford, 5236 N. Lakewood 
I T I D Ave.. Chicaro. m . 
Rev. Iliontas J. Hackin, pastor of St. Francis de Sales Church. Columbia, S. C obser\-ed, on May 16. the 25th anniversary of his ordination to the priesthood. Father Mackin, one of the Uni­versity's most devoted alumni, was ordained in Baltimore by the late James Cardinal Gibbons. 
1916 
Grover Miller, 610 Wisfjonsin Ave., Ratine, Wis. 
From Grove Miller: As most of our classmates are too busy and too modest to report on the lives, wives, and 
children and jobs. I sent out an inquiring letter recently with the following results. No doubt more news will come in shortly which can be used in our next issue. 
Al Fries is running the Peru Foundry Company in Peru. Ind. All work is A-A-1 war orders. Just celebrated 25th wedding anniversary. Has one married daughter and one at St, Mary*s. Says that he and his w-ife spent a week recently with Bemie Vol! and his wife at Martinsville. Reports that Ted Rademaker is working with him. He is so happy that so many of the boys have posi­tions of importance. 
Rev. Vincent Mooney, CS.C., is serving as U.S. Army Chaplain and is at the Fifth Corps Area, Fort Knox, Ky. Would like to hear from the boys. 
Joe Smith is practicing law in Cleveland and has a family of seven. One boy in the Army and one in the Navy and one in the Marines, a mar­ried daughter and is a grandfather. You can reach Joe at 351 Dale wood Drive. Cleveland. 
Louis Keifer writes from the "Tribune-Star," Terre Haute. Ind. Has a big job running two newspapers, one Democrat and one Republican. His son is going to Notre Dame, in Electrical Engineering. In Septemter '44. Says that he vis­ited Charlie McCanley, *19 (LL.B.) who is his brother-in-law. at Charlie's hotel, which is the Ritz Tower. 57th & Park. New York City. Charlie is the manager. 
Ray Kelly, past national Commander of the American Legion, is now Lieutenant Colonel. Address: 837 A.A.A. Bn.. Fort Sheridan, III. He had his 25th wedding anniversary on April 27 with all six children present. Ray, Jr., '41. a lieutenant (j.g.), is in the Na\T. Ray has a new command;,expects to remain at Foi-t Shendan for three of four months more. 
On Notre Dame Night all Notre Dame fellas who are left In Racine, gathered in my rathskeller and we counted 18 noses. All these boys are working about 20 hours a day in war work, in every instance as manager or owner of some plant. Such a reunion certainly makes a fella feel as though Notre Dame turns out good mixers. Some of the boys present had not met the rest of the gang. Everjone talks cbout sending his boys to Notre and also about a reunion as scon as the war is over. 
Thomas V. Trader, Las Vegas, N. Mex.. was recently named consumers* counsel in matters before the Public Ser\'lce Commission of the state. Tom served 10 years as mayor of Las Vegas and also served as district attorney of the fourth judicial district. 
 J. Vall, 2*6 E. Tatt St., SMth 
Bead, Ind. 
1917 B. 
From Bemie Voll: 
During a recent visit to Washington I was finally able to contact James Hayes by telephone, and found he had been ill. It was one of the few times that he had been absent from his desk in the Veterans Bureau In 20 years. He reported, however, that he w-as back en the job again and that things seemed to be under control in Wa^ -Ington. 
I had dinner with Joe 0*Hara, who probably belongs to the class of '18 and is presently con­gressman from Minnesota, and also Bob Grant, who is congressman from the Third District of Indiana, and a graduate of Notre Dame of much more recent vintage. Both of these men are do­ing their best to keep the House of Representa­tl\*es functioning properly, and In fact are doing an outstanding job in Washington. 
Your secretary gets very little direct mail from classmates and therefore must pick .up information regarding them in devious ways. About two weeks ago Miss Margaret Moran from Tulsa was visiting at St. Mary's and advised me that her brother Ed, who has had a period of illness during the last year or so. is again on the job drilling oil wells and is still quite active in the southern Illinois field. He is feeling much better but not back to normal health as yet. 
At the recent graduation exercises, Dan Cartis had a boy, William Doran Cortis, C.S.C.. who received a degree, and by the end of the summer will be studying theology in Washington. Inci­dentally. Dan is now connected with the J. I. Case Company in Rockford. 111. 
Danny Hilffartner recently returned from New 'York, where he helped to organize the new clas­
sified advertising section of "The New York 
News." the picture paper with the largest circu­
lation in America, and the sister publication of 
the "Chicago Tribune.** with whom Dan is still 
associated. Just another lend lease deal for a 
month. Coming out of St. Patrick's Cathedral on 
Easter Sunday he ran smack into Art Carmody, 
'15. of Shreveport, La., who remarked casually, 
"Manhattan gets smaller all the time." 
 Comm. (larence W. Bader, 
U.S.N.R., N.A.S., Franklin Field, 
Franklin. Va. 
1919 Lt. 
Chick Bader, the Navy man, recently sent In his new address (as above) remarking the while that there is very little news. The former Gary golfer had seen Lt. Frank Gaul, '36, who Is sta­tioned at SP 29, Naval Air Station, Norfolk, Va.. and Frank Honerkamp, '34, who is supply officer in charge of N.A.S.. Chincoteague. Va. 
Frank W. Condon, a student on the campus in 1915-17. is in the wholesale and retail coal business in Las Vegas, N. Mex.. and served for four years as mayor of the city. His son, Dave, '45. was. up to the end of the spring semester, a prominent Notre Dame student, standing out as a writer and editor. But by the time these lines reach Las Vegas. David will very probably be militarily employed by the all-embracing Uncle, having had several meaningful letters from his draft board. 
 B. Ward. 1012 BUi^ BIdff., Lot 
Anffeles, CaUf. 
1920 Leo 
Major Robert E. O'Hara's latest address on file in the Alumni Office is: A.G.D., Hq. VIII, A-F.­
S.C. APO No. 633. New York. N. Y. 
On March 21 in Africa. John Masmtker wrote the following letter to John Balfe in New York City, in answer to the latter's "power drive" letter of March 8 addressed to John M. in Green­field, la.: 
'*Your business reply envelope is no good where 2 am. but I'm glad to put on the air mall postage and give you a report. Paper being a scarce item in these parts, you will pardon using the back of your communication for reply. Such strange things happen to us of the 1920 class. Issues of the 'Alumnus* are not available to me in my present status in world affairs, but I hope they are accumulating in the office at home. so. If and when. I can catch up on N.D. affairs. 
"Hie world debacle of 1942 took hold of me by the forelock, and, after some Military Police training at Fort Oglethorpe, Ga.. the old veteran of World War I woke up a few months ago in Africa, where he has been contributing much or little (according to the point of view) in the total effort, since. Having remained In single blessedness in the interim, (much to the disgust 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
of Father Doremus) and feeling somewhat con­science stricken about not following through in 1918 and 1919, I undertook to he'p clean up the job. 
"I am lately in touch with such renowned mem­bers of the 1920 class as Elite Aloore, Johnnie Powers, Tom Beacom and Tom Tobin (?). If this item makes the 'Alumnus' with my present ad­dress, convey my best regards to all the' 1920 class, and state with no equivocation or evasion that I want to hear from Red Dooglass, AlRyan, Paul ConaKhan et al. ^Vhere I am and what I'm doing is banned by censorship. Nuff sed." 
The address: 1st Lt. John L. Mnsmaker, O-123075. 901st M.P. Platoon Avn., APO No. 606, c/o Postmaster. Miami. Fla. 
 W. Dnffr, IfiOt Terainal Tow«r, 
Ckveluid, O. 

1921 Dan 
Major Midiael Joseph Tiemey, so reports the eminent countrywide traveler. Kid Ashe, *22 sec, has headquarters in Salt Lake City and is with th6 Ninth Service Command and the Northwest Servic3 Command. 
Jake Kline, whose Notre Dame baseball boys did a grand job of it in the season's abbreviated schedule (see "Athletics," this issue) is currently operating in the local Bendix plant, filling in the two-month lull between semesters. Jake, as is well known, teaches in the Department of Mathe­matics of the University too. 
Al McGann, South Bend, was cochairman of St. Joseph County's war finance committee which recently led the county to a phenomenal tripling of its quota for the U.S. Treasury Department's second war loan drive. This record climaxed a yesr of monthly successes in oversubscribing war bond quotas in the county. 
I OOO ^"^ ^^'' ^^ ^^'^ ATenae. HUton, 
From Kid Ashe: 
It is reported that James Murtangh is now a 
lieutenant commander of naval aviation, and is 
assigned to a flying base in Brazil. 
Emmett Burke was in Dayton, O., according to latest reports. It is not known if he was there on a visit, or is permanently stationed in that city. 
It is time Jack Rahe gave himself up. Several of the boys have made recent inquiries about him. 
In South Bend Harold Weber and Gene Smocer are always delighted to see 1922 boys who may be visiting Notre Dame. We still recall with much pleasure. Harold Weber's hospitable concern for those of us who attended the 20th reunion last May. He arranged for our smoker at the Indiana Club. Gene is always on hand at 1922 affairs to extend needed help. 
Cy Kellett of Milford. Mass.. writes that he greatly enjoys news of his classmates. Don't let him down, boys. 
Pete Champion, of the Champion Rivet Co.. Cleveland, sends an inspiring reiwrt on his re­cent trip to the West Coast. In Portland he and his wife spent much time with Charlie Hirschbnhl and Bill Sclunitt, '10, and their wives. Since Charlie and Bill are both in the forge business, the male trio had much in common in addition to Notre Dame, and worked things out very sat­isfactorily. 
"These two fellows are certainly great people to run into when you are a long way from home." says Pete, "and they made Mrs. Champion and myself feel very much at home with them and their wives. . . . Bill was very helpful to us in that he steered us on to some business we could handle in our plants which he cannot touch be­
cause of his geographical locition. So it is an­other evidence of the team-work among the Notre Dame students. 
"The sad part of my trip developed when I called Frank Franciscovich. I called his home in Astoria, Ore., and in talking with Mrs. Francis­covich I learned that Frank died about eight months ago. You can imagine how much of a shock this was to me. and, of course, it was very hard on Mrs. Franciscovich. I did not get to see her, but I believe she to!d me they had three children, some of whom are quite small. Frank and I were great friends as students at Notre Dame, and he evidently went a long way in his home state as he was acting governor of Oregon when he passed away." 
In Seattle, Pete and his wife had a delightful visit with Harold Foley and his wife. Harold is now president of the Powell River Co., at Van­couver, the largest producers of newsprint in the Northwest. And, in keeping with the dignity of the position, he has pure white hair, according to Pete — "really a very handsome looking fellow." 
Aaron Hasuenard, South Bend, county attorney of St. Joseph County, has been nominated for vice-president of the Indiana State Bar Associ­ation and for membership in the association's house of delegates. Election of officers will take place at the annual meeting in Indianapolis on July 17. 
 F. Ha>*cs, 393 7th Ave., Rorat 1315, 
New York City. 

1924 J. 
Don P. Daley, Carlinville, III., is assisting John Paul Cullen, *22. as associate attorney in the adjudication division. Veterans Administration, Hines, 111. J. P. is head of the divison. 
Lionel Carney, reports Kid Ashe, '22, is up and going after being laid up for several months last year as the result of serious injuries suffered in an automobile accident near Erie, F'a. And. to prove that he was really ready, he selected the Army Transport Service as his new endeavor, and is now in active ser\'ice as an officer, 
Lt. Col. Bob Riordan, still at Purdue with the 
R.O.T.C. but itching for excitement, was in the old haunts for a few days in early May. He ex­changed reminiscences one Saturday night with Vincent O'Connor, former professor of art at Notre Dame, who now is an art teacher in the Chicago schools. Professor O'Connor was a week­end guest of Dr. John M. Cooney. 
• AO C Jolin P. Hariey, 2685 Brookdale Road. 
I YZ O Toledo, O. The Four Horsemen! You know that Elmer Layden directs the National Pro Football League. And you read in the "Alumnus" recently of Don Miller's outstanding success as United States at­torney in the Cleveland area. And now two dif­ferent clippings give new reports on the other two: Stuhldreher and Crowley, 
"If Harry Stuhldreher had not made a career of intercollegiate athletics he might have become 
LAWYERS NEEDED 

With war cloiziut increasmg as the result o! World War IL the Vet­erazis Administration finds itself in need of additional legal help. Law­yers interested should address John Paul Cullen«'22. 430 Arlington. Elm­hurst HI. Mr. Cullen is adjudication officer of the Veterans Admimstro­tion, Hines, 111. 
a wizard of Wall Street," says Francis J. Pow* ers, in reporting on Harry's finandal soceess in directing W>sc(msui*s athletics. 
"After the fittest fiscal jear in Wisconsin's history, in which its athletic teams earned $255,393, the school has paid up indebtedness on its foothsll stadium until 1932. That's all doe to Stahldrelier*s genius as a coach and administrator." saya Mc. Powers. 
And Arthur Daley prints In his sports column in the "New York Times" a letter from Lt; C— • Jim Crvwier In which Jim modestly tells of the athletic progxam he is directing on an Island in the sooth Pacific "which is all jtmgle except for a few native Tillages." 
"We've cleared quite a bit of acreage for our athletic set-ups," says Jim, "and now boast of 10 ball fields, four volley-ball courts, one soccer field, horseshoe-pltchinfir layouts and two beautiful bathing beaches. We also have accommodatitms for boxing and wrestling. 
"Under construction or contemplated we have three basketball courts, a quarter-mile trade with a 220-yard straightway, a football field (for touch football only), four ball fields, three tennis courts and 10 to 15 handball courts. 
"We are taking, care of from 2,500 to 3,000 men a day. On Easter Sunday, for instance, we had more than 30 ball games played." 
From John Huriey: Al Naditecall called me last week. We had a short chat — too short as we expected to see each other the next ilay but Al got tied up. He is still In Grand Rapids and had made a hurried trip to the Willys-Overland here on a war job. Al didn't have much news. Lt. Ray Canninxluua has been transferred from Minneapolis to Cleveland^ His new address is Office of Naval Officers Procurement. Uarshall Bldg., Cleveland. He looks great and likes his work very much. Mrs. Cunningham and their son are with Ray and are residing at the I^ake Shore Hotel. This summer must of us will stry home. Sure there will be the war jobs and victory gardens, but take five minutes off and drop me a line about yourself — even a postal. There have been many changes and your classmates are anxious to hear from you. Al FMS . Ray Canninshani. JI M Grawley, Rip HiQer, BUI Ccmey and Vince Harrinstan are the ones I know of who are serving Uncle Sam. Any others ? 
1926 
VIctar F. Lcmmcr, Box €fil, liaawaaJ. 
Fram Vic Lcnawr: 
Jim Anutrans. alumni secretary, wrote us a note some time ago relative to the Notre Dame Centenary Fund insofar as the Class of 1926 is concerned. Jim said. "Amount Is good. Participa­tion, our chief objective, is cot so hot. Can you jolt the boys on that score." 
Therefore. I hereby "jolt the b(^^" on that score, but I know already that the score b better than it was at the time Jim wrote the note. 
It really was a pleasant surprise to find out that the Alumni Office has such a wonderful rec­ord of alumni, and especially their up-to-date addresses. It Is a hard job to keep addresses up to the minute in these war days, and the Alum­ni Office deserves to be complimented on the fine work being done in keeping a contact with Notre Dame men. i 
While writing to Notre Dame men of the Class of 1926 for the Centenary Fond, all letters ap­pear to have been delivered, excepting letters to the following: Jalu J. Deremx, llarali J. Kicly and Seward E. Rawer. Anyone knowing their present addresses, kindly advise. 
We wrote a letter to Antonio Pedro Roxas^ 741 Echague, Manila, F. I., but the letter was not even accepted by our local post office. It was returned with the memorandum, "No Service." Recently we talked with CoL Carlos P. Romulo» "the Last Man off Bataan." and he told us that Tony RoxaB is still in the Philippines. The Col­onel also mentioned a few other Notre Dame men whom he knows w-ere left on the island during those fatal days. Col. Romulo holds an honorary degree from Kotre Dame, and he re­ceived the honor, along with President Roose­velt, at Notre Dame on Dec. 9, 1935. 
We had a letter from Ed V. Crowe, who is the executive secretary of the Catholic Youth Organization, 1234 Washington Blvd., Detroit, Mich. Mai Knans is at 507 Curtis Bldg., Detroit. John Ryan is still with the Forest Lumber Com­pany, Pittsburgh, F^. And Gerald J. McGinley is still an attorney at Ogallala, Nebr. We had a nice letter from Jerry and he sent a swell do­nation to the Centenary Fund. 
Wonder how many of the 1926 Class get the "Religious Bulletin" during the scholastic year. Don't miss it. "It is free, but the Prefect of Reli­^on needs a donation. We find great deal of spiritual comfort in the "Bulletin." We were in­terested in reading recently in the "Bulletin" about Dr. Jerry Hayes and his experiences in leading prayer on a boat to North Africa, [This item in re: Hayes is the same which was used briefly in the April "Alumnus"—Eds.] 
"We hope all of you know that William R. Dooley is the managing editor of the "Alumnus." Please write to him or to your new secretary as often as you can. Hie Alumni Oflice is glad to get the addresses of men in seo'ice, and anx­ious to know what you are doing. Are you mar­ried, and how many kids have you got, and where did your w-ife come from, and what does she think of you, etc. ? What are you doing for Notre Dame? 
Letters from the Class of 1926 will be ap­preciated, and we hope to be flooded with infor­mation for the next issue of the "Alumnus." 
Tino PoffKiani, Indianapolis, was in early April commissioned a lieutenant in the Civil Engineer Corps of the United States Naval Resen'e and reported to Camp Ferry, Williamsburg. Va., for training. 'Hno resigned as a member of the In­dianapolis Board of Flood Control Commissioners after serving three years. He formerly was in the bridge design and sur\-ey departments of the State Highway Commission. 
From D 27064—CpL C H. Guinon, 3 Son.. 22 Cdn. Arm*d Regt. (Canadian Grenadier Guards) Canadian Army Overseas, comes this inspiring letter, written on March 25: 
"Received my December issue of the 'Alumnus' today and spent a very busy evening catching up on things with the aid of a flashlight. . , . 
"There's nothing much in the way of news that you people don't know. Most of the Americans here have been transferred to the American forces and I guess I'm the lone sur\*ivor in our brigade. Unfortunately I made the mistake of mastering Italian and Japanese and some of the working principles of the Imperial forces, and so I was told that I was of more importance where I am than I should be transferred to the U.S. forces. Just between us, I think it's a lot of tripe, but it does the old self-ego a world of good. In fact I had some beautiful visions of winning the war single-handed with V.C.'s, D.S.O.'s, D.S.C.'s. etc., by the bushel but, a week ago Monday, cur friends across the way let off a land mine just close enough to knock me end-over-end. But aside from recalling to my mind the Act of Contrition and 64 other prayers, the only harm (personally speaking) it caused was the complete loss of my beautiful visions. . . . 
"Have a leave promised for June 18 and am at present making plans for the largest time ever. Last one was Oct. 30 and you can imagine the itchiness to get this one. A real bed to sleep in instead of the floor, real fcod instead of the flam­ing eternal stew in a mess tin, and civilians to look at instead of another face in battle dress. It will be heaven. 
"I suppose I'd better can the chatter before I fill a book, so I'll retire to my allotted 3x 7 space and endeavor to catch some sleep. 
". . . Give my regards to everj*one and some morning, at Mass, remember this branch of the 
N.D. club. Cheerio." 
It's safe bet that Chick wouldn't be at all of­fended to hear from you in so many words that you had remembered him that morning at Mass and Communion. How about it? 
I AO 7 Joseph &L Boland. Station WSBT. Soath 
I T Z / Bend. Ind. From Joe Boland: 
All I can say is that m'fellow classmates must be heeding government paper-rationing pleas . . . because the amount of wood-pulp we'll utilize this month won't be enough to worry the paper-makers. 
A holdover letter from early in the year. .. . (I sadly admit ye scrivener's fault: it got lost in the last year's bird's nest I call a desk) is herewith given the light of day. With it goes an apology to George Gordon, its kind author. 
"Just a few lines to let you know that since our meeting in South Bend I have changed my address to 1193 Andrews Ave., Lakewood. O. 
"After many years with the Wayne Pump Co., at Fort Wayne. I am now attorney with the 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, with the Cleveland regional office. I believe that I told you I had a son who was 14 years of age on Dec. 1. 
"Had lunch with John Reidy the other day. Have had several lunch appointments with Don Miller, hut somehow or other, we always miss connections. 

"If you hear from any of the boys in this neck of the woods tell them to give me a call at 1608 Standard BIdg., FVospect 5939." 
Robert Shields, Til Robin himself, popped into the Bend recently . . . and sprung for Ye Scriv­ener's lunch! He's now "expediting" for Federal Telephone and Telegraph Co., and eastern out­fits whose advertising manager will probably write me now to tell me they're world-wide! Bob has been on Army ca!I, 48-hour notice, since October, 1942. 
With little else to report, m'frienil, ye scriv will sign off with word that any card, letter, or even V-mail will reach . . . Joe Boland, at WSBT. South Bend, Ind. Try it! 
I TZ O Wuhington. D. C. Lt. Howie Phalin dropped me a line from U.S. Naval Air Station at Quonset Point, R. I. He was being detached there for the base at Corpus Christi, Texas, Howie said that Jay Masenidt, '26, was at Quonset Point with him. • 
When Frank Donovan was in Washington re­cently, we talked to Lt. Joe Brannon by 'phone at Mare Island, Calif., where he is with the Navy. Bill Jones was in on the conversation. Bill is now chief of the rubber division of the office of the general counsel in OPA. Frank's company in Muskegon, Mich., recently reveived a Navy "E" award. 
I had an announcement of the birth of BiO Dw>er's second daughter on April 17. Bill is lo­cated at 3523 West Roosevelt Drive. Mihvaukee. 
Martin J. Kirwan dropped a note from 405 S. Morgan St.. Horganfleld. Ky., where he is an associate civil engineer. Corps of Engineers, at Camp Breckinridge. He mentioned that Georcc L. Marphy, *30, is also there as civil engineer. Corps of Engineers. 
Floyd Searcr was the only guest writer who came through with news this month. Floyd writes as follows: 
"Please pardon my delay in answering your several appeals for news relative to men in the class of 1928. but I have been so very busy here at the first Bank that I just couldn't find the time to write you at an earlier date. Coupled with that. I was confronted with the situation that while I received my A.B. in 1928 it so hap­pened that because of having taken a combination 6-year course at N.D. that I became much better acquainted with some of the men in the 1929 and 1930 classes. 
"To refresh my memory, I went through the 1928 'Dome' and having there reviewed the names of the 1929 graduating class, I became verj- much aware of the fact that it was a very decided dis­advantage in having been a day student at the University. As a consequence of this, my close friends were of course, those from South Bend, and in looking over the list of graduates, I noted that there are very few of the men with whom I was well acquainted that I have had the pleas­ure of keeping in contact with. 
". . . Bob Grant .. . has represented the peo­ple from this district in the House of Representa­tives at Washington. He gets home quite often and is getting along fine. However, since you are a Washingtonian, you no doubt run across him much more often than I do. 
"Barton Toepp, who was for many years with the Associates Investment Company here in South Bend, is now with the Bendix Aviation Corpora­tion and just recently received a very fine pro­motion there. 
"Scymoar Wetsbercer who entered the practice of law upon graduation is doing very well end has his office in the Odd Fellows Building here in South Bend. 
"I see Boy A. Wordcn occasionally. He is asso­ciated with the firm of Worden and Schwarz, architects, with offices at 230 W. Washington St. here in South Bend. Roy has done some very fine work and has left many monuments to his ability in this community. 
"I haven't seen Bill Konop for a number of years now, but keep a line on him through his father. Dean Konop. Bill has been with the In­diana Bell Telephone Comp.iny at Indianapolis since graduation and has won several promotions. 
"As far as the writer is concerned, I have been here at the First Bank and Trust Company of South Bend a little over 10 years now and hold the title of vice-president and trust officer. My principal activity is in the administration of the estates and trusts which the bank has been appointed to serve." 
Bob Nickells is now residing at 4206 Franklin Ave., Los Angeles, according to welcome note he recently wrote to the "Scholastic." 
 Joseph P. McNamara, 1314 X. 
1929 
Capt. 
Coart House Rd., Arlington, Va. 
fVom Joe McNamara: While the nation is concentrating on the great debate as to whether it should be RASHion or RAYtion. your sec, hopes to report enough to get that A.W.O.L. charge off of CO. Bill Dooley's docket. ... . Am presently assigned to the Office of the Chief of Ordnance in 5-I>-381 The Penta­gon, Washington, where there are more intricate legal questions from more theatres of operation than I dreamed possible. Consequently, I am 

The Notre Da me Alumnus 35 
enjoying every crowded moment of this choice assignment. 
Saw T. Victor Hart in the hall the other day. Vic is a first lieutenant with the Army Air Forces. His address is 4-C-1071 Pentagon Build­ing. Vic says John Nmsh is a captain in the Army Air Corps stationed over at the Gravelly Point, Va.. headquarters. Intend to have lunch 
•with Hart and Nash soon to gather a few* notes on '29. . . . Phoned J. Walter Greer of Sorin mail fame, who now lives in the Presidential Gardens out in Alexandria, Va. Walt is one of the Navy's valuable civilian engineers. He's presently engaged in victory gardening in a big way, but reports it's "all work and no vege­tables." Walt has a charming child, Lucille Bar­bara, who will be eligible for St. Marj-'s in about 16 more Septembers. 
Walt tells me that it is now Lt. Dick Donoghac. TJSNR, whose current problems are with the Lend-Lease program. The Navy also boasts Lt. Ed Conroy, with the Na\-y*s Bureau of Ordnance as an expediter. Bill Carl, also with the Nax-y^ is an expert on patrol boats. Hope to see that trio soon. . . . Greer alleges that Bob Schultze of N.D.'s Academy of Science is in the Army. We'd both like to hear from Bob if possible. 
It is now Major Bill Kreig. Bill has done a marvelous job, according to one of the other officers in his outfit, and richly deser\-ed those golden leaves. . . . John Nanovic is one of the nation's leading authorities on crj-ptography as 
•well
 as the editor of practically all of Smith and Street's better detective publications. . . . An Indianapolis newspaper yields the information that hustling Henry Hasley is state deputy of the 

K.
 of C. out in Indiana. Further, that Hank has 


.gone about that assignment with all of the typical Hasley drive, and that IS something. A letter your sec. addressed to Henry at Fort Wayne was recently returned — evidently Postmaster Gen­eral Walker's boys-in-blue can't keep up with Hasley. 
Speaking of Fort Wayne, that's still Frank P. -McCarthy's headquarters. Since I joined the Army 
I've seen thousands of cases of Van Camp's 
condensed milk so I know Mac is still a-doing 
fine. . . . Saw Capt. William D. Ka^-anaugh at 
the Notre Dame Club's Communion Breakfast. 
Bill is with the Chemical Warfare Ser\*ice over 
at Gravelly Point, and is anxious for foreign 
duty. . . . Jim Bochning, still a department execu­
tive for the Indiana Employment Security Divi­
sion in Indianapolis, is a rising non-com in crack 
Company H of the Indiana State Guard. 
Dick Hansh. in the Army since Sept. I, 1942, is a first lieutenant. He is acting chief of the Labor Branch of the Sixth Service Command, Room 2167, Civic Opera Building, Chicago. 
An announcement a couple of months ago from Brooks Field. Texas, said that Cpl. Charlie Boscfaemeyer had qualified for OCS and would be sent to the Quartermaster Corps School at Camp Lee. Va. 
Ray Drymxlski. elected in the early April elec­tion, is the new city treasurer of Chicago and thus takes over one of the chief jobs of its kind in the country. Felicitations to him. 
I OOA ^"°^^ ^* ^°^e- ^030 N. Broad St.. ITJU PhL'adelphia. Pa. From Harold Dnke: Under the bi-monthly publication schedule of the "Alumnus." a great number of communications received just after the deadline for one issue must be held over nearly two months, so any of you fellows who have been kind enough to write and fail to see acknowledgment in the next issue, please be patient. We'll get them all recorded for the following "Alumnus." 
One of these unfortunate instances is a splendid letter from Bob Hellmng, which came just a few days too late to get in the last issue. However, • Bob's letter brings out forcefully the lack of in­terest in contributions to the Centenary Fund from the Class of '30, which we must admit is short of the usual enviable record that we as a class have maintained. It is not yet too late to better our standing, so I earnestly solicit a con­tribution from all "Thirtys" who have neglected to respond as yet. It would be perfect if each one who has not given to the Fund as yet, sat down and wrote a check and sent it to the University immediately after reading this article—How about it "Thirtys"? 
And now to Bob's letter: — "Congratulations upon your acceptance of the secretaryship of the class. The job takes a little time, but I am sure you will enjoy it. From now on you will have more first hand information about the "Thirtys" than any other member of the class. It is fun to watch their progress, and if you hold the job until the reunion of '45 that should be the best of all times. 
"We hope by then the war is over, and that all members of the class in the Armed Forces will be on deck. We will then witness the biggest bull session ever held. Stories from all parts of the world. 
"As an ex-secretary I feel it my duty to give you a little news from the Mississippi Valley. Gene Killoren is a sergeant connected with the Judge Advocates Office at a new weather school at Grand Rapids. Mich. For the time being, he is living at the Rowe Hotel. 
"Dave Reilley, originally from St. Louis, has returned recently after several years in Denver. where he was selling paper for the Graham Paper Company of St. Louis. He is now working here for the same company. 
"Franklin O'Marah, of Hamburg, N. Y., and Buffalo, is now a first lieutenant in the Army, connected with the Radio School Post at Scott Field near St. Louis. He has been here more than a year except for a recent trip to Florida, where he attended an Officer Candidate School. Frank was in the Reserve Corps and has been in the regular Army since a short time after Pearl Harbor. He is connected with the head­quarters detachment at the Post and has prog­ressed rapidly during his term here. Frank Downs formerly of Chicago, I believe, is now stationed at Scott Field also. We have not seen Frank, but we hope to get together with him soon. We under­stand that he is a second lieutenant. 
"Jerry Reidy, the Cleveland bachelor, was here in the radio school at Scott Field, but has been moved up into officer training and we have not heard from him since an afternoon last fall dur­ing football season when he and I listened to one of the games together. He was getting along very well, enjoying radio work. u*hich he knew noth­ing about before entering the Army — in fact he was leading his class here. 
"Frank Amato, the International Harvester Truck man. has moved here from Murphysboro, 111., in the southern farm belt of Illinois, to take charge of the repair department at their large garage in St. Louis. Frank has promised to write you some news for this column very shortly. 
"Yours truly is still on the home front collect­ing doctor bills and hospital bills and rendering various other services for the allied health profes­sion of St. Louis. 
"Because of my expariences in the collection business, Jim Armstrong wrote me several months ago and asked me to take charge of the collec-­tion of centennial contributions from members of our class. I wish to apologize publicly to Jim and to the members of the class for not having taken action in the campaign thus far. However, if the 'Thirtys* don't want to be dunned for their contributions, and if they do not want col­lectors knocking on their doors and calling them at all hours of the night, tell them please to send their remittances immediately to Jim Armstrong. 
"The purpose of the drive is to raise funds for a centennial year gift to the University from the alumni. Hie class of 1930 should hold a posi­tion near the top as far as class contributions are concerned, and it is evident that they will be­cause, without any special solicitation at all. they have made a beautiful showing. 
"Please congratulate the members of the class who have already sent in their centennial gifts. To those who have not yet contributed, please ask them to be generous and remit as soon as possible so that our class can be among the first to reach the 100 per cent goal. The S18.75 War Bond is becoming the most popular centennial gift, particularly for those men who are ten per­centers." 
Thanks, Bob. May we hear from you often? 
Lea Hasley came through nicely with the fol­lowing: 
"Ed Arthur (Corporal to you) had dinner with us last Sunday before catching his bus back to Camp Custer, near Battle Creek. He has just graduated with the first class of Occupational Police in the country and is awaiting a definite assignment. I borrowed Ed from Joe Hennessy, whom he had been visiting here in South Bend over the week-end. Joe is doing nicely with the John Hancock Insurance Company, being the as­sistant local manager. He looks well in the family circle, too, with his charming wife and two chil­dren well endowed with the Hennessy physiog­nomy. 
"I hear frequently from Corp. Murray Hickey Ley, who was recently approved for OCS but informed by Washington that there were no va­cancies at present. He is at Fort Lawton: his wife is temporarily working in the Seattle office of the NLRB in order to be near him. Hurray has won medals in rifle marksmanship and bay­onet attack. However mighty he is with the sword, his pen is still capable of staggering pronuncia­mentoes, some of which, in verse, make the camp paper a new experience for some of the boys from the suburbs, intellectually si>eaking. 
"Devere Piunkett was commissioned a second lieutenant in February, snd reported to the Air Corps in Miami Beach. Fla.. for training. He had been teaching Classics and History at Notre Dame, and was given a teaching assignment at Enid, Okla.. when he completed his training. He was joined there by his wife and two children. 
"Maxima Cum Laude Bob Dinkel first exper­ienced the pangs of fatherhood in early Decem­ber. At that time he was getting a belated edu­cation in domesticity (with a vengeance) as 'cook, launderer, nursemaid, and bottle warmer.* He lives in McLean. Va.. and must be classified as a bureaucrat. He listed himself as chief farm labor expert in the War Department but that was three months ago. and you know Washing­ton! Maybe I ought to answer his letter. 
*'Dick SaUiTui and I continue on the faculty, both in the English Department. Both of us are married; each has two daughters. But Dick has a number of brain-children about (to-wit. a fine novel and a number of distinguished short stor­ies). I have been assistant dean of Arts and Let­ters for the past year, trying to sec that no one gets an A-B. degree without having had phy. ed. Walt Luicfcrd, Spanish prof., is teaching the University*s first course in Portuguese and doing a fine job of coaching the tennis and fencing teams. His tennis team went undefeated last year, lost only two this year, and he has an ex­cellent record in fencing. 
•36 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
"I'd like to hear the Avhereabouis of my erst­while correspondent and roommate. Bill Knapp. When last heard from he was at Fort Monmouth in the Signal Corps, with prospects of OCS." 
Since, you have done such a good job reporting, m2y I impose on you further. Lou, to influence Dick SnUivan and Walt l.ansford to jot down a few items and forward them? 
Tim Toomey determined to have a Xotre Dame Club in an area where Notre Dame alumni are as scarce as coffee on May 30, says that he has lined up Joe Cores who is working as an engi­neer down in them parts. Tim has also met Tom Reynolds, a brother of Father John Reynolds. 
"We'll get a club started if we have to take in subway alumni." says Toomey. 
Tim, the old reliable, hasn't lost any of his loinck for keeping up with people and things, as you will see from the follov.-ing notes he for­warded : 
"Here I am in Knoxville, Tenn., on a temporarj­job for my company. 
"When 1 left Kew York, many of the boys were still around, but a gang had gone into ser\-ice. Ed Arthur forwarded Christmas greetings from an Army camp in the Carolinas. Jim"Rizer, now^ a *sarg.* is awaiting admittance to OCS in the Air Corps at Miami. He was in X.Y. during January and. together with other night owls, I helped him 'make the rounds' on his brief fur­lough. 
"Jack Walker, who has resided in Washington, is a major in the Army Engineers. I rode from Washington to Bristol, Tenn.. with him on my way down here. He said his brother, Frank, is a lieutenant in the Navy. Bucky O'Connor and Dinny Shay are lieutenants in the Xa\'y, their present whereabouts unknown. Mike Bishko used to come to the N.Y. club meetings at intervals. 
"I saw Don Sullivan between trains at Spring­field, Mass., about a year ago. He resides near my old home town, hut seldom have enough time to drop in and see him. Jtm Friel's brother, Joe, said that "Chicken* DriscoU and Jim get together once in a blue moon. The 'Silver Fox' is back in Chicago and Jim is with Meade-Jchnson in Ev­ans\-ille, Ind. 

"Patsy Hastincs, the number one business man of Clinton, Mass., got himself hitched about a year ago and sent his lovely wife to N. Y. the night before the^ Army game and instructed her to see me for tickets. I had none when she ar­rived and asked her why Pat hadn't wired. She replied that Pat said it wouldn't do any good be­cause I would only throw the wire in the waste basket. I scouted around and got the ducats — with further curses on Pat's thinning locks. 
"Timothy 'Larry' Cronin is living in Jackson Heights, N.Y., and is the proud daddy of two lovely youngsters. He is special agent for an insurance 'company in the Long Island area. Warren Focel and Tom Lantr>- are with the Army Air Corps and are staunch N.Y. Club members, as is Tim O'Roarke, who is still around. Frank Dnnn has been temporarily deferred from active military duty, but, like 'yours truly,' has his fingers crossed. 
"I met Vince McHacfa a couple of years ago near his home in Red Bank, N. J. He is one of the leading young attorneys of his community. We enjoyed a pleasant visit over a glass of suds, talking over the old days in the 'Cardboard Castle,* Sophomore Hall, and Father Mulcaire*s 'Wildcats.' 
"Bemie Conroy wrote me a note last month that I must, answer soon. He is the 'head man* in his home borough of New Kensington, Pa., and has an important defense position. He wrote that both 'Danny the Dip' and Jack 'Boom-Boom* Cannon had things under control at Columbus. How would you like to soldier in the Army with Danny giving orders as 'top kick'? 
"I have no news from my two former roomies, namely, Ted Abel and Bill Walsh. My last report on Ted was that he was happily married and was residing in Columbus, O. Bill used to put in an appearance once in a while in N. Y., but of late he is a person of mystery­
"I would like to hear some dope from or about Bill O'Malley, John McMurray, Murray Hickey Ley, Bob Weschler, Jack Sieler. Vernon Slack, Harry Luzak, Harry Kozak, Gene Mahoncy, Frank Kersjes, Tom Medland, Cliff Loean, Hnch Galla­gher, Joe Kelleshan, Jim Deeley, John Fonwe* Gil Kirwan, Tom Frost, Dan Sullivan, Ed Red­mond, Johnnj' McCarthy, Karl Brennan, Jae Palermo, and John Dnbutsson, whom I understand is a judge or a country squire." [See "Deaths," this issue, for the sad news about Dubuisson.— Eds.] 
A grand job, Tim, and please don't forget the last sentence—more dope, more often is what we need. 
Just before dispatching this, lo and behold! a letter from Rockford's Al Monti, who is still carrying forth in the acounting business. Al states that he is happily married and celebrated his seventh wedding anniversary in December. 
He states that Karl Brennan is now^ located in Rockford as manager with the W. T. Grant Co. and also Oliver Fields is there with the Chicago Motor Club. Great to hear from you, Al! 

Now, may your secretary ruminate a moment and point out that while the quality of this col­umn is of the best, thanks to such dependables as Bob, Lou, Tim and Al, the quantity of reports is poor. Results are directly proportional to re­porters and inversely to the lack of same, so I urge those of you who can find time to drop a note novf and then, to do so. News of the class is especially interesting to those who have en­tered the armed ser\*ices. 
In order to make things a bit more interesting, I am going to ask five or six fellows to become si)ecial reporters for the issue following their appointment and will follow the alphabetical listing of our class in order. For the next pub­lication, let's hear from Joe Abbott, Ted Abel, Andy Aman, Bob Andres, John Anderson and Jim Allan. 
In conclusion, my thanks to those of you who have come through so nobly; to those from whom I have not heard, my crj- is HELP! HELP! 
1931 
Jaha Berran. tSS E. Calfax Are^ SmA Bend. lad. 
From John Bersan: 
The list of ser\'ice men continues to grow and the latest reported in ser\-ice are. Bill I'Caliy, Chicago; Fred Rahaim, Jacksonville, Fla.; Jim Doyle, Chicago; Paul Felilir, St. Louis; Jae Thornton, Lawrence, Mass.; JiAn Bams, Brook­lyn ; and Jchn Foley, Tarrytown, N. Y. Good luck to all in your various fields of ser\'ice. 
The naval training station at Fort Schuyler, Bronx, N. Y., now includes Lts. Dave Nash, Taa Ashe and Frank Bntorac who are completing their training this month. Lt. Ralph Dalton is also in New York when not confined to active duty aboard ship. Frank Carideo, Iowa City, will re­port to Quonset Point, R. I., on June 29 as a lieutenant (j-g.). Lt. Larry Hnllins is the co­ordinator of the sports program at the Iowa Pre-Flight school. Iowa City. 'Moon' recently won the ofiicers' physical fitness course at the school, show­ing up many of the younger men. 
Lt. j(.r.) Hobie Sbean is now on duty with the Atlantic fleet- A message from Bill Brown, some­where in the Pacific (APO 40, ll5th Med. Bn., c/o Postmaster, San Francisco) follows: 
"The 'Alumnus' arrived today, and you can well imagine with what satisfaction it was received. I scanned every page, every line of it, and even though it was the December, 1942 issue, it was still the news of the hour. 
"After ten years, it is interesting to note the many changes that have taken place v.-ith most of us, and most thrilling to see the names of hundreds of Notre Dame men in the sen.'ice. So far, I have not encountered any one from school, but even out here the synthetic alumni arc very much in evidence. 
"There is not much to tell of myself. I am IKrsonnel adjutant of this battalion and landed over here February [censored]. You probably know as much, or more, about the war than we do. I understand that shortly before I arrived a lad by the name of Gardwine, Notre Dame, was in this outfit but left for the states to enter OCS. I do not know his home town or what year he graduated. I believe he was from Aurora. 111. 
"John, I would like to hear from Bemie Leahy, wherever he is. I wrote him several letters to Fort Sam Houston in Texas, but they were all returned. That's good, when old man whiskers cannot locate his own soldiers. Also want to say hello to Tom Cannon, Vem Knox and the rest of our gang. 
"I am feeling fine, and rapidly getting adjusted to this different way of living. I can even look at the Orientals without curiosity. Take c?re of yourself. Have you any idea where Norb Crowe is? While in San Francisco I had quite a long talk with Mrs. Marcfaie Schwartz. Also Savoldi, who lives in Alameda. 
"Take care of yourself, and keep up the good work with the 'Alumnus.' I enjoy your scripts very much." 
Congratulations to Alderman Nicholas Bohlinr of Chicago who was elected to represent the peo­ple of the city's seventh district in the elections held last month. Jim Carroll is the new manager of the Hotel Capitol, New York, and issues a cordial welcome to any member of the class to visit his hostelry. Elton Lavenbanr, who used to do a lot of tuba tooting in Joe Casasanta's band, is production manager of the Bantam Bearings division of Torrington in South Bend. Alsx Abra­ham, the old Niles flash, is an accountant with the same firm. 
Many members of the class, especiaPy those of the Department of Journalism, will be happy to know that Prof. John Sbechan is well on the way to recovery after an illness that has necessi­tated his remaining bedfast for the past four months. Hie last report from Los Angeles listed Al Howard as a member of the Army. Cardie Salman was also inducted and is located at an eastern camp. Hiart Dowlinr of Rochester is somewhat improved after a long illness and would appreciate a note from some of the old gang. 
Sympathy of the class is extended to Bill Brown on the loss of hts mother. 
Jahn Francis SuUivan, erstwhile Ia\vyer in Pas­saic, N. J., was, at the last report, receiving mail as Lt. John F. Sullivan. Co. A. 72nd Bn., 15th Reg., Camp Robinson, Ark. 
EaUl Tclfel, currently a graduate student in Joamalism at Northwestern University, Evanston, III., won national acclaim in April when his monograph on the subject, "The Achievements of the Newspaper in Public Service Durins the War,** was awarded second prize, a silver medal, by the American Newspaper F\iblishers Associa­tion. The three prize-winnintr essays were later printed in pamphlet form by the Association. Emit is on leave of absence from his duties as head of the Journalism Department at Loyola University, New Orleans. 

On April 24 Lt. (j.ff.) Clarence A. Darbin, C.E.C., Y(S), USNR, 27th Naval Const Batt., c/o F.P.O., San Francisco, Calif., wrote to John BerKsn as follows: "This morning I received my first 'Alumnus* (February) since I left the States last fall. You can no doubt renUze how much I appreciated it. I'm . . . out here in the South Pacific. News from home is placed at the head of the list. Since we have no towns or villages to go to for entertainment, no corner drug stores or beer gardens, no open air movies {blacked out) or otherwise, we read and write as much as we can. 
"Notre Dame's activity in time of war is cer­tainly gratifying. She always comes through! 
"The men here are all doing a great job, giving all they have. Even in the times of greatest trial, there is humor and laughter. During a recent dive-bombing attack here one of our lieu­tenants in charge of a gun crew experienced a jammed gun as the result of a bent clip. He soon popped up with the remark, "I thought my guardian angel had gone out for a bear." 
"Our chaplain is Father Demers from De­troit. Thanks again for the swell job of keeping us informed. My best regards to Father Steiner and Mr. Kervick." 
When last the Alumni Office heard from him, Larr>* Moller was with the U.S. Coast Guard at Sewickley, Pa., near Pittsburgh. 
I O9 0 ^^* ^*'"^' ^ Collins, 1135 Manchester I TO Z Ave.. Norfolk. Va. From Jim Collins: 
I was delightfully surprised on a recent Sun­day morning to see Father Boland — now Lt. Francis Boland, USNR — walk to the altar at 'Naval Base Chapel to say Mass. We had a short visit after Mass and he said that he was at­tending the Chaplains' School at Williamsburg, Va., and expected his permanent orders that week. I heard later that he was ordered to a shore station in this vicinity but did not hear which one. 
B^dsn Powell, now a lieutenant (j.g.) taking the indoctrination course at the Naval Training Station, Princeton University, writes that he will be there until some time in June. He further says. "Bill McCormick. Bill Webster and Joe Petritz of '32 (all j.g.'s) graduated with the April class. Mac got Repair and Maintenance, and Petritz went to Armed Guard. Joe Church­man. *33, was in that class and also went to Armed Guard, as was a fellow by the name of Radosevidi although I did not meet him. John Mangan. 'SS. is a staff officer teaching here. Norman Bake, *33, leaves in May as does Jos Crotty, '37, and Siddall of '37. We've had about 19 N.D. men here at one time but getting together was impossible, and there are probably others but 1 don't know them. 
"Jack Werner should be a j.g. by now: he is with the Amphibious Force Communications at Oceanside, Calif. Don Ryan is a lieutenant sta­tioned at Dartmouth University, and Joe McCabe was to finish the indoctrination course there in February but pneumonia got him and when I left there in March he had been in the hospital for 36 days." 
Frank Denney. of whom we have heard too little for many years, writes a fine letter from the J. Walter Thompson Company. 100 Bush St., San Francisco. Parts of his letter follow: 
"We had quite a clan of Notre Dame alumni around Seattle. Some of those from our class are Bob Piccott who is secretary-tree surer of Pacific 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Coast Forge Company and the company's princi­pal sales contact man. Tom Meade, who also graduated with us. practiced law in Seattle for five or six years and last fall became the resi­dent attorney for Kaiser's Shipyard at Vancou­ver, Wash. 
"What the future holds for me is difficult to sny. If Mr. McNutt and his group continue to hammer away, and if Congress takes the bull by the horns, I will no doubt find myself in the Army or Navy—or if our business is declared non-essentini—in the shipyards." 
From Gabe Moran I hear that Joe Blaney is a lieutenant (j.g.) and is at sea at present. Also that Bud Bernard is an ensign and at last word was waiting to be assigned to a ship at San Francisco. Gabe, by the way, is expecting another call from his draft board, having been deferred last summer. 
Among other alumni whom I have seen in this area recently are Bob Brcnnan. *31. Cikarlcy Fiw» *33, both j.g.'s. and Laurie Vejar, now a chief specialist. Brennan is an officer with the Third Beach Battalion and has been sent to Fort Pierce. Fla., for combat training. He said that Bafc Nesbitt is in Tunisia with the Army Signal Corps with the rank of sergeant, flss is assigned to ship's company at Camp Bradford, Va., while Laurie, who came into the Navy under the Com­mander Tunney program, is teaching in the Fleet Service School, Naval Operating Base. Norfolk. 
John Kramer is still stationed at Amphibious Training Base, Solomons, Md. He called recently while passing through Norfolk on his way to a nearby gunnery school but I haven't seen him for some time. 
Pete Streb writes that his new address is Bat* tery F. 605th Coast Artillery Anti-Aircraft. Charleston P. O,. Boston. Mass. He wrote that he was temporarily at Fort Totten, N. Y., for special training. 
Neil Hurley was elected executive vice-president of the Independent Pneumatic Tool Company. Chicago, at meeting of the directors early in April. Neil has been with the company for H years, serving for the past four years as a vice-president and director. John A. McGnire, *39, was elected secretary of the company at the s=me meeting. 
Father Harr>- Stegman. secretary to Bishop 0*Hara. forwarded a letter which the Bishop had received from Lt. Gerald F. Conway, Hq. Ist Is­land Command. APO 502. San Francisco. Shortly before he wrote, Gerry had been made a lieuten­ant by direct commissioning in the field and had been assigned to an Air Corps unit. He was pleased with his duties, his associates, his food and, particularly, with the inspirational work of the chaplains. At confession the night he wrote. Jerry had met Lt. Hy Meyer. '32, and John Fisher. '41 Indianapolis, was in the same outfit. 
After six weeks of schooling at Miami Beach. Fla., Lt, Francis C. Tomasi was assigned to Randolph Field, Texas, in the oral surgery sec­tion of the Army Air Corps. 
A card from Martin K. Madden said that he was in the Bureau of the Budget, Executive Of­fice of the President. Washington, D. C , and residing at 4502 Middleton Lane. Bethesda. Md. 
Bill Hall is a steel schedule negotiator with the Curtiss-Wright-Vulcan in Buffalo, N. Y, 
I AO ^ '^^'^ Wooda, 7944 EIUs Are., Chkav*, 
The latest address on file for Lt. RecU C. Me Namara is: Officer-in-Charge, Construction Bat­talion, Maintenance Unit 504, c^o Fleet Post­master. San Francisco. 
Dave Plotkin, a South Bend dentist in civil life. 
37 

has been promoted from first lieutenant to cap­tain at Tinker Field. Oklahoma City. Okla. 
Pete Caaaelly was on March 17 (very appropri­ately) commissioned a second lieutenant at the Adjutant General's OCS. Ft. Washington. Md.. and was later assigned' to the Office of Depen­dency Benefits. Newark, N. J. He was married in March to Dorothy Hart of Rochester, where Flete had practiced law. prior to his Army service. 
Capt. Andrew E. O'Kccffe, 87th CA (AA), APO 841. cyo Postmaster, New Orleans, wrote on April 4: "'Way last summer I was lucky enough to talk the colonel into a 15-day leave. During those 15 days, I traveled by plane . . . home; was married to Miss Genevieve R. O'Brien of Woodbridge, N. J., on Aug. 22; had 10 grand days at home: then rushed around and came back over those same . . . miles. Being sorta on-the-go all the time didn't give me an opportunity to look up any of the Jersey crowd. Hello, anyway. While in N.Y.. though, I did see Lt. (j.K.) and Mrs. Fred Wcniser .. . they were at *Navy 690, San Francisco' when last heard from. Also saw Mr. and Mrs. Jae Beans . . . living somewhere in Queens. 
"Back here again I'd seen Lt. C<^ Dvbais and -^ the* rest of that crowd fairly regularly up *til the past couple of months. Latest addition to the crowd was Lt. Gcnraae Fraelidi, USNR, who ar* rived fairly recently." 
Loren Heaa, South Bend, was graduated recent* ly as a second lieutenant from the Provost Mar­shal general school. Ft. Custer. Mich. 
A recently Sunday article by Eileen Burks in the "Chicago IVibune" gave extensive crsdit to Paol Riffali, head of the art department of the Daprato Studios. Chicago, for designing in re­cent years beautiful stations of the cross for many Chicago churches and for other churches throughout the country. 
Urban Grade!, president of the Urban Gradel Coal Co., Toledo, was recently elected exalted ruler of the Toledo Lodge of Elks. 
I An ^ Joseph R. Glcnnen, Jr.. Brook Blaner, I J S t Pfeasantville, N . Y. From Jee Glenaen: 
Have not much news to give you. A few contri­butions would be very helpful, especially .to oar classmates in the service, who no doubt more than look forward to the magazine. So call it patriotism and send in some tidbits pronto. 
Our sincere sympathy to Gene Blish on the loss of his wife, and to Bfrs. Howard "Pat" Flamcry for the departure of Pat. Many Notre Dame-Army games have been made more jolly by the presence of Uza and Pat. We shall miss him, but never forget him. 
Please send in your name and address if in the service; also those of any other Notre Dame men who have joined the armed forces and have not been listed in the "Alumnus." 
I had hoped to get around and do some looking up, but the "time element" is what prevents me. The address is above and please use it. Many thanks. 
Latest address: Lt. Jalian W. Qalnn, cjo Offi­cers' Club, Camp Murphy, Fla. Also: CpL Wil­lian H. KiUeren, 181st Hu Pon Bn.. Cami^ Forrest, Tenn. 
Ensisa Jelm Terascn, USNR, is at N.T.S. (I), 41006. Ft. Schuyler, Bronx, N. Y. His wife and young daughter were to join htm in New York in June. Residing in Aurora. III.. John has for the past several year been office and sales manager of the Joliet. III., branch of the Eby Youngen Co. 
Chariie Schwartxel was graduated from recruit training at Great I^kes as honor man of his company and was selected to attend one of the Na\"y*s storekeeper schools. He enlisted as an apprentice seaman on Jan. 14. He had been em­ployed as a supervisor at the duFont plant at Charleston. Ind., near Louisville. 
Vin HcAIoon, now in miHtao' service, was given a richly-desen-ed blow by Father Frank Gartland. C.S.C.* in a recent "Our Sunday Visi­tor." Speaking of Vin as worker in the field of Catholic Action, particularlj- as a Franciscan tertiary. Father Gartland said. "He is one of the three or four best C.A. Student Apostles I have e\-er been privileged to see at work. There is an obvious Christian. Where American youth wouldn't go, what it wouldn't do with a lot of Vince Mc-Aloons!" 
Father Vinee Brennan. Corpus Christi Church. Pittsburgh, wrote that Lt. (j.g.) Ed Cosgrove is now attached to the Department of Supplies, at Great Lakes, 111., following a month of training at Har\'ard. 
Jim Reeves, attorney in Kew York, wrote for the April 5 issue of "Barron's National and Fi­nancial Weekly," New York, a long and enlight­ening article on the 1942 tax law with special reference to the excess profits tax on corporate earnings. 
Georce Menard is stil one of the principal an­nouncers for WLS, Chicago, and is heard every week day morning at 6 o'clock — imagine that! — on Farm News and, later in the day, on sev­eral other WLS programs. A picture of George and his three-year-old daughter. Noel, recently graced the radio page of the "Chicago Tribune." They were aboard a motor bike which (it said there) George had built in his spare time. At that, guys who get up that early in the morning must have a lot of spare time. 
Capt. John W. O'KeU. 0-395244. 348S Ordnance Co., M.M. (Q). APO 302, c/o Postmaster. New York, N. Y., wrote as follows on March 1 to Bob Cahill, the lieut. and cx'sec.: "Just received my October issue of the 'Alumnus.' . . . Since last I raised a cup of cheer in your apartment after the N.D.-Minnesota game of '38, many bridges have been crossed. .. . I was married in October, 1939, to a very lovely lady from St. Louis. De­cember of 1940 found me a second lieutenant in 'Uncle's* forces. August of '41 brought wilh it a baby daughter. Nancy. Was stationed at Ft. Leonard AVood, Mo., for over a year, but at the beginning of the fiscal year Uncle Sam gave me a free boat ride to England. 
"While there I roomed with Lt. Richard Dora, 

N.D. *41, at the famous old race track at Aintree. "While all of you were sitting on the sidelines, biting nails and hoping for touchdowns, I -was among the hardy souls trying to win a foothold in North Africa. My outfit came in two days after the initial landing. Shortly after landing we were sent into the hinterland to 'keep 'em rolling' for the fighting troops. We've had some unique experiences, many of which would enliven a good bull session in Corby Hall. 
"When we were listening to Dean Mac tell us 

of the foreign markets I had visions of trips to places of enchantment and possibly adventure. Take it from me this land has no enchantment .and I've had quite enough adventure to last me a lifetime. . . . Remember all of us abroad in your visits to Dillon Chapel. [Jack didn't know Bob had left N.D. for the ^avy. but the thought is still a 100 per cent]. .. . . Write in case you ever find time on your hands." [Another 100 per 
cent idea]. 
|A^ P FnuddjK C Hochrcitcr, 340 Rosedale IT^O Are^ St. LMis, Mo. From Bocli: Well, here we are again, gang, for what may he the last organized column for awhile. We 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
have our orders to report to the Army at Jeflfer­son Barracks on May 26. Since we are not ex­pecting to be rejected, we will be trying to carry on the column from "God knows where!" 
In the meantime, for a last shot as a civilian, we are on a speaking trip and will wind up in Buffalo. N. Y.. just before reporting to Uncle Sam. This column comes from Flint. Mich., where the district super\*isor of parole has been kind enough to turn over his secretary to us to shoot this through to you. We are up here to talk to the state conference of the Michigan Probation and Parole Association. 
Two pieces of correspondence came through since our last trip to press and we give them to you practically verbatim. Before we get to their letters, we want Frank Koppelberger and Frank Sinnott to know that we appreciate their interest in keeping the class of *35 alive. Koppie is still with the Electric Auto-Lite Company in Bay City, Mich., and Frank is in the Navy. He suggests as his permanent address, 214 Audubon Ave., New York City. 
First, Koppie: 
"First of all let me offer three big pats on the back for the excellent job you have done in keeping us informed of each others actions through the medium of the alumni section of the good old Notre Dame 'Alumnus.' Note in the last issue you seem a bit downhearted about the re­sponse you received from the fellows lately. I do not know many of the fellows' names. Hodi, but will attempt to give you what information I have. 
"Ben Beyrer has been in Africa for approxi­mately fire months with his address as follows: Pfc. Ben Beyrer. 35110816. Hq., 51st Troop Car­rier. Wing. APO 650, New York. N. Y.. U.S. Army Air Corps. Have had several welcome letters from him in which he advises that, in addition to hard work, he has been having much pleasure in taking advantage of the Arabs in certain well known games of chance and in making the ac­quaintance of several nice French school teachers. From his description 'meager as it might le' of the country and the food, ic would seem that he is getting along first rate. 
"As far as the writer is concerned, he is at present working as ofl!ice manager of this com­pany, which is now giving 100 per cent of its production to Army and Na\-y. . . ­
"Uncle Sam up to this point has decided that I can do a better job here than I could in one of his uniforms. (Won't mention any names, but if several members of our class could read the above, I can well imagine some of the com­ments : Uncle Sam is smart — Omar is no longer in business; maybe Uncle Sam is wrong — with him in the Army, the others would have ample protection; Koppelbcrcer would be the same as a tank — why not use him? No need to go any further, Hoch; you can imagine some of the comments, too. . . .") 
And now Frank: "Just read a new 'Alumnus,' and believe me it was good to see one. I especially enjoyed seeing your column of class notes, for this is about the first time in a year that a tropy has come my way. ITie only information I can supply you is a brief account of my own activi­ties in the Na\T. 
"I have just completed a year's active duty, having been a seaman until the end of January, and an ensign ever since. Before being commis­sioned. I spent nearly sis months on a small naval vessel on the Atlantic, which is one hell of a place to spend a winter. It was good experience though, and I think it did me a lot of good. 
"February was spent in school at Dartmouth, and I've been here for the Inst two months for further training. Before you get this letter I shall 
be at another actix'ity which promises to be pretty good duty. Right now I can't tell you what it is. There are several other N.D. men at Princeton, but none of them are from our class, with the exception of Norm Duke who was in it." 
We want to try to continue to work for the 

• "Alumnus." so we would suggest that you keep on sending your letters to the old address above. Mrs. Scribe and the prodigy will hold down the fort and keep the home fires burning. Let's all get together and keep the class of '35 moving, even though a good number of us are in uniform. We would suggest that you send your material to us by the first of the month for a 15th of the month deadline because Mrs. Scribe will have to forward your letters to our assigned camp and we will have to throw the dope together and send it on to Notre Dame. 
So unless they slip us a 4-F. we w-ill be looking up you birds across the country and maybe over­seas. Hold tight and be good. 
When Clyde Bronssard, *13, was on the campus in late Hay he reported that his son-in-law. Gerry Doyle, is assistant chief expediter of the Penn­sylvania Shipyards. Inc., Beaumont, Texas. 
John "Gunner" McGrath has been i)romoted from second lieutenant to first lieutenant at Jef­ferson Barracks, Mo. 
Recently recovering at Camp Phillips, Kans., was Lt. Charles Marbangh, formerly of South Bend, w-ho received shrapnel wounds while trying to deactivate a booby trap mine with which his company was exparimenting. 
Capt. John F. Shaner has been appointed post surgeon of the Air Depot Training Station at Albuquerque. N. Mex. 
Pat Fiiher was on April 20 commissioned a second lieutenant in the Adjutant General's OCS, Ft. Washington, Md. 
!ph F. Hanifield. 34 Fifth St., Pcl-
N. Y. 
1936 

From Joe Mansfield: 
It seems that the little notes from the Alum­ni Office reminding me that another deadline is approaching come with all too frequent regularity —particularly when the mails bring me so few cards and letters from the men of the class. I'd like to be able to fill the column with reams of copy every time but without the items of news with which to do it. I'm unable to do so. 
I know that the war is taking so much of our time, that to sit down and knock off a letter is asking a lot, but if you'll only scribble a note on a card, it w-ill ser\-e to tell the fellows alt over the world just what you're doing now. So please. fellows, make with a card. 
John Moran, ^er b Herrick and I get together every couple of weeks for a chin fest. At our most recent meeting, Jerry Gillespie cams along. Jerry was recently taken into the navy as an ensign and by this time is taking an indoctrina­tion course at Fort Schuyler. Sherb was doing a great job in the navy public relations office here in New^ York, but has been transferred to another branch of the service and expects to get a bit of sea duty. 
John Moran is champing at the bit to get to sea too. He is tired of the very important job he's now doing. John still feels it a solemn duty to dig up items of interest for the column, and for that your correspondent blesses him. He came up with the news that 1st Lt. Frank J. Mnrmy, in the Army since last September, is at the Sdiool of Aviation Medicine, Randolph Field. Texas. He's learning to be a medical aviation ex­aminer and, later on, a flight surgeon. 
Bob CsTuiaaili is with the Federal Deposit 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Insurance Corp.. Field Building. Chicago. The FDIC moved out of Washington last July and took Bob and Ray Dcaly with it. Ray is e.\pecting to become a father again shortly. John Haw!ey. ex. *36, a first lieutenant in the Air Corps, sta­tioned at Columbus. O.. popped into Chi. a short time back and called on Bob. 
I received a letter from Edmund C. Burke, who. 
'though not an alumnus of NJ>.. takes a lot of 
interest in N.D. men and activities. He passed 
along the following and for it we thank him: 
".. . I noticed that you were the correspondent 
for the class of *36. I happened to see your ap­
peal for information of the whereabouts and 
doings of your classmates. 
"One name has been very conspicuous because of its absence and because of the heroic work he is doing on one of the most difficult war-posts to be had today. I refer to Father John T. McGee. CS.C , who, if I remember correctly, told me he was a member of the class of *36. John is now a captain in the Canadian Army and is the only chaplain in Labrador. Here, where the tempera­ture averages 40 below zero, he has been carrying on his priestly duties and endeavoring to allevi­ate the hardships and loneliness of the young fellows under his jurisdiction. Perhaps, after the war is a thing of the past and a horrible memory, the real, true story of the situation in Labrador can be told at length. But, for the present, one can only imagine the extreme difficulties John labors under at this most difficult assignment. Since a year had gone by. it became necessary for him to talce a few days' leave to transact busi­ness with his superiors. John came down to New-York two weeks ago and we had a swell, but very short, visit. , . .'* 
From Dr. Fred Gabriel, 1st Lt., M.C.. comes the fDllowing: 
".. . I decided it was high time I made a con­tribution to the '36 column. I have not much news to pass on.-either but every item counts to a col­umnist. I have been told. Those of whom I write are the five from the class who went to Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia together. 
"All of us months ago set aside our M.D.'s for M.C.'s—four in the Army—only one donning blue. 
"My brother Loa went on active duty in July. 1941, and last week received his second promo­tion in seven months. Being a major at 26 is not bad going in any league, except possibly the Air Corps. To celebrate the event, his wife a couple days later presented him with a son, their first­born. I understand the baby was bom we-ring the stripes of a private, first class. At least that is what my brother wrote me. Lou III already has been enrolled at N.D.. class of '64. 
"Jack Shaffer, the Pittsburgh Kid, also is a comparative veteran in the Army. I have not seen or heard from him in several months, but ac­cording to my last information, he was a captnin and stationed at the Station Hospital at Camp Gordon, Augusta, Ga. Jack is married and the father of a son. 
"Jim Qninn of Columbia. Pa., also is with the Army in the South. I nm not sure, but I believe he is (or was) with the Air Corps in Louisiana. Jim worked in a surgical clinic for a few months before entering the service. I wish he would write to me. if only to send me his address so I can write to him. How about it. James J.? 
"John Brady is the lone Navy man in our group. I guess he saw- enough of the Army from his home in Newburgh, N. Y. John is currently located at Camp Le Jeune. New River. N. C. He has been working hard, but several weeks ago he took time off long enough to show the folks back home what a fine daughter he has. 
"I have been in the Army since last August, with a station hospital that until recently was at Camp Barkeley, Texas. About a month ago we moved to a western camp, whose location I can­not disclose. Since joining the service I have studied Laboratory Medicine and Tropics! Medicine at the Army Medical School in Washington. D. C. I finished the latter course in December. Before returning to Texas I went home for a few days. but was unable to be there over the holidays, much to my chagrin. 
"Two weeks ago I was ordered here to take a three months' course in Clinical Pathology at the University of Chicago School of Medicine. When I rejoin my unit I will go into the laboratory. 
"I haven't been to N.D. since our class reunion in *41. I plan to go over next week-end and see how the school is faring at the hands of the Navy It will be good to see Irish-green grass again. Maybe there is grass in Texas but dam if I saw it. 
"Since being here I haven't met any of our classmates. However, my work has kept me pretty close to the books. These course for Army officers aren't the pushovers many people take them to be. I plan to take in the next meeting of the local N.D. club and meet the *36ers still around there. 
"Joe, we had a nice talk back at school at the five-year reunion. I trust we can do it aga'n in '46, Let's plan on it anyway—if not sooner." 
For that letter, many thanks. Fred, and when you get a chance, drop another one into the mail. 
Lt. John Desmond wrote me recently from North Africa where he is doing his bit. He re­ported that he hadn't bumped into any N.D. men at the writing but he's keeping his eyes open. 
That about winds it up for this issue. Remem­ber my plea — drop a card or a letter this way when you have the time. 
Byron Shore, Chicago, was one of 23 out of 450 who recently passed a CPA exam. He is work­ing for George Rossetter & Co.. public accounting firm. 
Wayne Millner, end coach at Notre Dame dur­ing the 1942 season, is a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy. At the latest report he was undergoing training at Dartmouth. 
Enlisting in the Army about a year ago, Andy Hcllmnth was six months later commissioned in the Signal Corps and assigned to aircraft warning work at Drew Field. Fla. With his wife and daughter the lieutenant is residing at 605 Rich­mond Apts., C!ean.vater Beach, Fla. 
Jim Quinn has been promoted from first lieu­tenant to captain at linker Field, Oklahoma City. Okla., where he is in medical service. He formerly was assistant surgeon with a clinic at Lancaster. Pa. 
Foltj, 919 Hawtfconc 
GroMe Pointe, BOch. 

1937 Paal 
From Paul Foley: . Creaking from inaction on this job — but reel­ing under raining blows from every other direc­tion — we sneak quietly into the back pew as though we weren't even late. 
Start with the assumption that everybody is in a uniform of one kind or another and you won't be very far wrong. There are just about enough of us left in civilian clothes, such as they ate, to start a brisk game of nine-ball in the Brown-son Rec. which is probably a thriving USD doughnut depot by now. 
Our mail goes back so far the stamps have pictures of the St- Louis Exiiosition and the first two lines of "Meet Me In St. Louis. Louis." So maybe we'd do better just starting off by ear on a few names that we remember, fill in with some rhetorical questions and end in a burst of V-Mail from a guy in Algiers.. 
A standby when the column tends to the thin side is Art CmUn with whom we fanned briefly in a local "bistro" recently. Art is — or was — in civilian clothes, about 14 square yards I'd say off band, and seemed reasonably happy with the way the coal business is clickinsr. 
An "ex" we run onto every now and then is "Hayer^ Hastinsa — hut we probably won't see much of him any more. As a matter of fact hesitate to comment on his present whereabGiita but he was in Detroit tmtil a few weeks ago, undertaking all over the place. 
On a recent.trip to the local Navy Dmartment 
— just to keep up a nodding acquaintance in ease lightning strikes — we ran into a bare^hested character just about to be sworn in as Lt. (j.flr-) Frc4 Caride*. Ht said he expected sea duty and certainly looked ready to take on the whole an. with his bare hands. 
Now and again we hear vague and always riotous tales of Bek Hart — I believe it's ser­geant by now — and his one man handling of the war. He was on duty somewhere in Kentucky at last report but is probably lathered in military secrecy by now. 
Lt. Rahert L. Grecan — to give him his full name in honor of the silver bar — moved from Mariana, Fla., to Maxwell Field, Ala., where he's flying under the Air Corps banner and on top of P-40's. His latest note, very brief and something of an oflBcial gripe because we haven't been doing this stint, said he expected active duty very shortly. 
Bob reports that Lt. Gcerce BenSeUI. HISO of the AAF, is stationed in Alabama within a short P-40 sprint of Grogan — beyond that we know little of his doings. 
We learn, by way of an epistle we'll unveil shortly, that BatA Bran* and Joe MeNally are both ensigns in the Navy's armed guard depart­ment and are seeing large hunks of the world through a thin, brave line of gold stripe. 
It will give you a rough idea of how things are being run when you hear that Ensign Jec Dnicder is allowed to censor his own mail — a good deal Uke making Jac Qainn prefect of dis­cipline. 
It was from Ensiyn Draedtcr that we received the red-edged V-mail headed "North Africa." At that time (March 15) the goose was hanging hi ^ for Druecker who reported: 
"This is quite some place. Full of Free Frendi soldiers, sailors and foreign legionnaires, along with some of our men and a few British, thoo­sands of Arabs and most of them capable of pick­ing your pockets at 20 to 30 feet. Some have been known to operate as high as 50 feet away.** [We can't think of any good reason for pickini: Druecker's pocket but maybe the Arabs have a subtler sense of values.] 
"There is plenty of wine and beer of question­able vintage," says Draec&cr. '"The wine was analyzed by the Navy medical department and some was found to contain embalming flmd so the boys just don't take it." [Leading one to believe that Druecker is not the same robust character we once knew and loved.] 
Anyway, there's a little more in that vein and then this: "I was invited aboard a destroyer to witness a boat race and ran smack into Jecy Qainn. We discussed a lot of old times and missed a longer session because the ships were moved about." Ensign Druecker's address is Algiers Naval Base, A.G.C., New Orleans, La. 
Lake finding a five-dollar bill in last yearns' Palm Beach suit was the sudden appearance of a four-page commonique from Al Sdiwartx, whose fine Italian hand is up to the elbow in affairs at Ghanute Field for the Air Corps. AI is by way of becoming a Link T^ne r instructor. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
His letter, like Srfiwmrtx of old, is brimfull of knowins stuff. He reached Chanute by way of basic training at St. Petersburg, was scheduled to be a weather observer and wound up at the automatic recorder of a C-3 Link — which is a fairly direct route for the Army. 
I suppose the seven-month Schwartz son is not news to many, but anyhow Charles J. and his mother are holding forth in Champaisn-
For about the next eight p-ragraphs all the facts are from Schwartz. 
J. Paul Sheedy is with the FBI, operating in and around Miami. Parker Sullivan, who should never be separated from Sheedj- by more than ten lower-case letters, is still working for a tele­phone company and is doing something or other around Lafayette, Ind, Probrbly showing ths na­tives how to turn the Httle cranks. 
Bemie Niezer, after a spell in Washington with the FSA and the Pure Food and Drug Commis­sion, threw it up for grabs and signed on in the Navy. After a course in short hair-cuts at Prince­ton he was at Camp' Davis, N. C. long enough to recover from pneumonia and, as "Ensign Neizer." next turned up in Kansas City, a great spot for sailors. 
With the Quartermaster Corps, and for a while at Salinas, Kans.. was Tom McCarthy, then a second lieutenant. He assured Srfiwartz that Hackett and Straeter had Milwaukee under con­trol — with "just the kiss of the hops." 
Frank Carroll is a first lieutenant of Anti-Aircraft. and at last report was stationed at Camp Wallace, Texas. He has a new daughter, Mary Elizabeth. 
Last heard from on a loading dock at Camp Dix, waiting shipment, was Staff Sergeant Ed Garvey, who reported that Bob Bodic is also a second lieutenant in the QMC. 
It seems that along about last April, Schwartz bumped into Harry Baldwin at the Chicago Navy recruiting parlor, where both were trying to swing a deal. Secretary Knox's talent scouts de­prived Harry of his glasses and he promptly ordered a scotch and soda, mistaking the yeo­man's undress blue for, the standard garb of a Pump Boom waiter. Explanations did no good. Baldwin now has the example of Link oparator Schwartz as a shining beacon. You, too, can be successful in spite of all. 
Proudest of our warlike possessions is Capt. William Home Fallon, who at last report was attending officer's school in London. We are awed to think that we once took a whole semester of €thics. sitting right next to a guy who's now only five or six steps from a brigadier — or should we stay strides. 
Dr. J. Manninr is now at Mayo Clinic on a fellowship — a splendid record at Penn Medical School already wTitten. Dr. 3Ianning wi!I be master of the ulcers before the rest of us have made enough money to own one. 
One of the first of our '37 crop to take up the cudgels was Chicago's Dick Carroll, who was re­cently reported a prisoner of war in Italy. 
Needless to say we appreciate the ample re­ported in Link-man Scbwartz, without whom all would have been lost. 
Frankly, that's about all the positive dope we can lay our palsied hand on at the moment. 
On our own sector the biggest news, of course, 

is our own new daughter — now six months old, 
round as Qainn and a joy forever. 
But it's not always a joy to write this column — or even to think about it. for quip as we may, too many of our boys are laj-ing it dangerously close to the line every minute of every day. We hope for them all. 
Address for Lt. James Gordon Murphy: Co. B. 

203 QMC Bn., APO 438, c/o Postmaster. Los Angeles. Joe Loftus is an ensfgn with a motor torpedo boat squadron. Tom Cassidy has been promoted to first lieutenant at Ft. Benning, Ga. 
Cpl. Peter Johnen, w.ith the ~5th Signal Com­pany, Ft. Ord, Calif., v.-as married March 6 in Blessed Sacrament Church. Hollywood. Jce Ahlcr­ing, erstwhile pre-med from S3uth Bend, finished his interne stretch in August, *42, at Fresno General Hospital. Californir, and was married in Septemter. Soon after he was in the Army as a first lieutenant. His address heads the list in this issue's "Additional Military Men." 
Frank Kopczak entered the Army Air Corps as a volunteer in June. 1942, and was trained at Jefferson Barracks. Mo. After OCS at Miami Beach, he was commissioned and is now an in­structor in the Air Corps. BOX—Leave in class news 
FOX WINS AIR MEDAL 
CAPT. JOHN E. FOX, '37, Sooth Bend, was awarded the Air Medal "for extraordU nao' adiievement while participating in more than 200 hoars of anti-submarine pa­trol,** it was announced in April at the anti-submarine headquarters in New York Citj-­
The citation states that "as a member of a combat crew, he displayed ontstand­ing initiative, resource fulness and a hich degree of skill under many tryinz condi­tions such as restricted visibility, low ceil­ings and icinff ccnditions encountered on the larse number of flishts necessary to perform this hazardous patrol of rreat re­sponsibility. Possibility of encounterinr enemy ships of fighter type or antiaircraft fire added to the hazards of these missions. The outstanding service of this Individual reflects the highest credit on the military forces of the United States.** 
Good news! When last Phil Bondi wrote (March 

31) he expected to be released from the sanitari­um within the next six or eight weeks. He added: "Elmer Kcnncr, my old roommate, dropped in to see me the other day. He's married now and the father of an 18-month-o!d baby girl. Is working for the Johnson Wax Company in the industrial paints division. Weighs about 225 now, but other than that is the same oM 'Wunce'." 
IOOQ ^*^^ ^' WiUians, 4323 Maibleluai 
I TO O Rd.. Baltimore. Md. From Hal Williams: 
In the April issue I asked you to send me the following information: Your current address, army rank and service if any. occupation and name of company if you are not in the service. home cddress, merital status, and number of children. I had planned to compile a listing of the boys for this issue as a substitute — a rather poor one, I'll admit — for the fifth re­union. The response was not too bad — and not " too good either. We did manage to pry a few of the boys loose, however. 
I'm not discouraged and I'm going to continue the plan indefinitely. Keep sending the dope (you can send it on the other fellows, too) and V\l compile a class index so we'll have an up-to-date mailing list. 
Now for the news. First a letter from Captain Joe Callahan, "somewhere in North Africa." Writes Joe: "I've been over here for about fi^-e months, and have long since had my fill of Arabs, camels and veiled women. Here is some news on some of the boys: Bnnny McCormick, my old roommate, is a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy physical education program. I got together with him and his charming wife one week-end in JJOS Angeles last August when I was stationed in the California desert. Bunny is now at the Na^T Pre-Flight School, Chapel Hill. N. C. Grer KeUy is a bombardier in the Army Air Force and sta­tioned and stalking around with my kid brother. Bill, at the Brooksville Air Base in Florida. They are both lieutenants. Jim Blunt is a sergeant in a medical outfit over here. I ran into him about two months ago. We had quite a chat. The last 'Alumnus' received by me was the October issue. It came last week (March 14). Please pass my address along.** 
Thanks. Joe. for the letter. Joe's address is: Hq. I Armored Corps, APO 758 c/o Postmaster. New York. N. Y. 
Now. Paal Leahy, who, I believe, is tied with Johnny Bnddey and Chuck Terry for the lead in our Fathers' Contest For the Men of '3S. Each has three. Flaul, who wrote in response to our appeal for information, says that he is the field representative for the National Drug Company of Philadelphia, traveling the 14 counties of northwestern Ohio. Paul says, "If you know of any of the boys who want jobs in the following states have them contact me: Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, Kentucky, or western Pennsylvania." Remember how the offers of jobs were flying around when we graduated, boys? 
Paul passes along the following news: ''Don Hidcey, now an ensign, was in Tiffin. O., on leave several weeks ago. His brother. Jerry, was with him: he was waiting a call to the Sea-bees. I see Didc Btrfin, of Ritchy Avenue. Lima. Ohio, every month or so. He has an enginesring job with Westinghouse Manufacturing Co., Lima. He is a proud pop; son Jimmy is about IS months old. Jalinny Scfamitz, Akron,' formerly of Tiffin, is worldng for Goodyear; he is an inspector. And the draft board called him the end of April. Cliff Brown, *36, Norwalk. O.. was defeated for city solicitor. He has a job in production. Plum Brook Ordnance Works, Sandusky, Ohio, but prac­tices law a part of the time. Where is Ray Fiedler hanging out? I haven't heard about him for a year or more. My brother, Maurice, '39, is now a first lieutenant. His address is: Truax Field, Madison, Wis. He was married last June to Irene Carpenter, of nffin. O. Vince DeCoursey, please copy. Dick, another brother, ex. *41. is in his senior year at Loyola Medical School. Chicago. He has a commission as ensign in the reserves." 
Paul's address is 527 North Sandusky St.. Tiffin, O. His three children: Michael Denis. 3 : Patricia Elizabeth. 2 ; David Timothy, 8 months. Thanks, Paul, for the very nice letter. 
And now another fine letter from Redman DacKan, Box 309, Ogden, Utah. He writes, "I'm still a civilian and still with the Social Security Board, though now located in Ogden. Tried my best to get into the army, navy, marines, coast guard and merchant marine, but when the re­cruiters saw my 'specs' they tore up the applica­tion papers. My address is 1125 28th St.. Ogden. The only good place to eat in town is located at the same address. I'm married, but no children. My official title is manager of the Social Security Board field office in Ogden, serving northern Utah. (Been here six months and still have only one wife.) 
**Dan Qainlan is at Fort Bragg. N. C. 3S5th Bomber Squadron, 34th Bomber Group — and he likes it. Frank Larwood is still working for the Southern Pacific and living at 222 East First St.. Albany. Ore. He's married to a Portland girl, as you know. When I left my last post in Colorado I said good-bye to Marty Husnnff. who was busily engaged in plumbing with his father. He's mar­ried to a Chicago. girl who went to the Woods: her name was Grace Reidy. 
**PaaI Harphy was still there, too — engaged in the farm implement business or what was left of it after priorities. My brother, John. ex. *41, is representing the Duggan family in this 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
war. He's a first lieutenant, finance, at Fort Huachuca. Ariz. I've met two Notre Dame men here: Frank Smythe, of about '07, who runs a hotel here and Sam PoweU, ex. '12. an attorney. 
P.S. Received an announcement of Chaclc Keller's marriage to a girl in New Jersey and meant to send it to you. I don't think it was announced in the 'Alumnus.* But I lost it. Ask Chuck for details — I've even lost his address." 
Thanks again. Redman, for a swell report. Keep up the good work. 
And speaking of weddings, I think the boys will be delighted to read this: Mr. and Mrs. John William Coakley announced the marriage of their daughter Alice Marie to Lawrence J, Kerwin, May 8 at St. John's Cathedral, Cleve­land. By all means, congratulations. Hook. 
Here's a fine note from an old friend. RIggie DiBrienza, writing from 1296 Pacific St.. Brook­lyn, N- Y. He says, "I graduated from Long Is­land College of Medicine in June. 1942. and have been interning at St. Mary's Hospital. Brooklyn. 
N. Y., since that time. Needless to say it's been quite an internship — being run by a house staff of nine internes when normally we should have 20 to 21. Incidentally. Eugene Smith, of our class, is also interning with me. He's doing fine and sends his best. I have already received my commission as a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy. It appears that I will see active duty sometims by the end of June. Yesterday (March 27) we celebrated our first anniversary — a month ago I married the sweetest nurse of the Long Island College Hospital. Anne "Weinschreider. .. . I have been thinking of our proposed five-year reunion and I know that many of the boys will be missing. Boy, it would be great to see them once again: Chuck Callahan, Zerbst, Gene Vaslett. Bad Sherwood, Tex Haggar, Jack Anton, and, of course, my old roommate. Eugene Patrick Dolan. I've heard from him recently — and he has been happily married for the past six months. Married some lucky girl from Troy. N. Y." 
Thanks, Riggie. Write again. And congratula­tions on your marriage. Incidentally, did you serenade her. like you did us back in the good old days of the St. Ed's annex, with that ukulele? 
And here's a note from Don Currier, who hasn't been heard from for — ah, let's sea, about five years. He says, "Your April issue plea for a lot of work for a mite o' news cannot go un­answered." Sic transeat vital statistics: Don says that he is married, has a ten-month-old boy, Patrick, and that he is working for the Currier Lumber Co- Don passes some information along on Tim Cmice. It w*ill be found later. 
Tom Hntcliinson reports that his second child. Hilary Hatch Hutchinson, was bom on May 1. That gives Tom one boy, Steve, and a girl. Con­gratulations. Hutch passes along the word that Bill Toamey is still reporting for the "New York Daily News" and writing short stories on the side. . . . JadE Zerbst, who married my wife's best friend, is working for the Department of Justice in Los Angeles. His home address is 522'^ South Berendo St., Los Angeles. His golf score, I understand, is even higher than his address. Had a postcard from Tom Morrison, '41, Colonel Morrison's brother. He says that the colonel is the pa of a nine-month-old girl and is presently stationed at Noroton Heights, Conn., as a lieu­tenant (j.g.) in the Na\*y. studying communi­cations. 
Eddie Hattingly is just about finished the Of­ficer's Candidate School, Transportation Corps, at State College. Miss. . . . Francis Valetidi sends his address: 898 Chemical Company, Daniel Field. Augusta, Ga. He is a second lieutenant, is mar­ried and has a boy, bom on Jan. 24, 1943. . . . Joe DiMatteo writes for the first time. He is living at 1215 Termon Ave.. Pittsburgh, Pa. He is married, has two fine sons, one three years old. the other six months, and is employed as health and gym teacher in the Pittsburgh public schools. 
Chock Scannell, Ist lieutenant. 999th FJV. Bn.« Fort Bragg. N. C. writes that he heard from Tommy Mnllican recently. Tommy is in the Pa­cific theatre. Chuck then says, "I've been fighting the battle of Fort Bragg so long I'm even eating hominy and black eyed peas. There are thousands of people at this post, but I haven't run across a N.D. man in over a year. At a solemn mili­tary field Mass on Easter Sunday there were 
3.500 communicants so there must be some around. . . ." Lt. (j.g.) John Moran, '36. of 61 East 95th St.. New York. N. Y.. asks for tiie address of Jerry Kane. Will Jerry please furnish it? Thanks. 
Two weeks ago I had a nice visit with Ed Bailey, ex. '22. a leading light of the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia. Ed is temporarily working in Baltimore at the offices of the David­son Chemical Company. Hopkins Place. Baltimore. Ed is going to help me attempt to organize the Baltimore N.D. boys, so if any of you lugs are living down here and have not yet made your­self known, drop me a line or give me a call — Tuxedo 6100. 
Thanks for all the letters and cards, and keep up the good work. Let's hear from some of the fellows who have been silent for years- We won't put the draft boards or the credit companies on your trail. 
THE '38 CLASS LIST Anton, John F. Treasury Department. Na'ional Bank Examining Division, Des Moines. la. Home: 6922 Jeffery Avenue, Chicago. Single. Bauer, Burnett C. Accountant, Metal Door and Trim Company, La Porte. Ind. Home: 1613 Rich­ards. La Porte. Married; one daughter: Betty Ann. 
Belanger, George O., Corp. Headquarters. 603 
C.A. (A.A.) Burbank, Calif. Single? 
Bohn. Richard. Engineer. Westinghouse Manu­facturing Co., Lima, O. Home: Ritchy Avenue. Lima. Married; one son. 
Brosins, Charles T. Accountant, Hasklns and Sells. Baltimore. Md. Home: 82 Dunkirk Road. Rodgers Forge. Baltimore: Married; two children. 
Callahan, Joseph A. Capt. Headquarters I Armored Corps, APO 758, cjo Postmaster. N. Y. North Africa. Single? 
' Currier, Don. Sales manager. Currier Lbr Co., Detroit. Home: 15055 Peidmont. Detroit. Married: one boy: Patrick. 
Cmice, John T. Lt. Army Air Forces. APO No. 520, 12th Bomber Command, c/o Postmaster. New York. N. Y. North Africa. Single. 
DiBrienza, A. WilUam (Dr.) Lt. (j.g.) USNR. Doctor. Home: 1296 Pacific Street, Brooklyn. N. 
Y. Married. 
DiMatteo, Joseph. Physical Education and Health teacher^ Pittsburgh (Pa.) Public Schools. Home: 1215 Termon Ave.. Pittsburgh. Married; two sons. 
Duggan, Redman. Manager, Social Security Board. Ogden, Utah. Home: 1125 28th St., Ogden. Married. 
Fitzpatrick, George F. Ensign. USNR. Navy Department. Washington. D. C. Home: 1210 N. Kenilwbrth St.. Westover, Arlington. Va. Mar­ried ; one son: (aeorge, Jr. 
Hutchinson, Thomas E. National Opinion Re­search Center. 280 Madison Ave., New York. 
N. Y. Married; two children: Stephen and Hilary Hatch. 
Lamberto, R. N. Lieut. Army Air Forces, pilot of "Baby Shoes." First Provisional Bomb Flight. APO 858. c/o Postmaster, New York, N. Y. Single. 
I ill w—d, Fraak. Southern Pacific Rulroad, Albany, Ore. Home: 222 E. First St.. Albany. Harried. 
Lealqr, PaaL Held representative. National Drug Company of Philadelphia, FVu, out of 'nffin. 
O. Home: 527 N. Sandusky St.. Tiffin. Harried; three children: Michael, Patricia, David. 
HcGrath. Ksbcrt. Securities Exchange Commis­sion, Chicago. Harried; one child. 
HattiBsly. Edward. Candidate. Company A, 3rd Platoon, A.A. O.C.S. No. 4, State College, Hiss. 
Hmac*, Jchn, Jr,., Hajor. Army Air Forces. Hacon, Ga. 
Bfarriaon. Ckaxlea. Lt. (j.g.) USNR. U-S. Navy Communications School, Noroton Heights, Conn. Harried; one daughter. 
RabiiuMi. WiOiaH H. Department of Justice, Philadelphia. Home: 424 Virginia Ave., Hanoa, Upper Darby, P.O., Pa. Harried; two boys. 
Scannell, Kidurd J. 1st. Lt. 999th FJl. Bn., Fort Bragg, N. C. Single? 
Shciwad, Emery A. Accounting department. General Hotors, Flint, BCch- Home: 1730 Detroit St., Flint. Harried. 
Saitli. Enxcne. Dr. Interne. St. Mary's Hospi­tal. Brooklyn, N. Y. Single? 
Qninlan, DanicL 385th Bomber Squadron, 34th Bomber Group. Fort Bragg, N. C. Single? 
Valeticli. FrancU F. Lt. 89Sth Chemical Cont­pany, Daniel Field. Augusta, Ga. Married: one son: Frederick Francis. 
WiOianu, HaraU A.. Jr. T/Sgt- 1348th Service Unit. Headquarters, Third Service Command Bal­timore. Home: 4323 Harblehead Road. Baltimore— 
18. Married. 
Zerkst, Jade Department of Justice.. Lcs An­geles. Calif. Home: 522»4 S. Berendo St , Los Angeles. Harried. 
Pat HcCarty. coach of Ursuline High School, Youngstown, O., since 1938, resigned in Hay to accept a similar job at Central Catholic High School, Toledo, his alma mater, where he will take over in August. Pat has two children. 
At the latest report. Lt. John Davis, a naval aviator hero of the Pacific, was stationed at the Naval air Station, Quonset Point, R. I., and Bah LeBGre was a lieutenant in the weapons depart­ment. PJ«.G.S-, Ft. Custer, Hich. Capt. Jiari Laliey. a Harine. was at the Great Lakes Naval Training Station. Great Lakes, 111., and Enusn Georce Swt k was with the Service Squadron, South Pacific Force, Fleet PO, San Francisco. 
Bin HcCartliy is an ensiga at N.T.S. (I) 41043. Ft. Schuyler, Bronx, New York City. Dick GcrTs father wrote that Dick was then (April 7) con­fined to the General Hospital in Australia after being seriously injured in New Guinea on Jxuu 
29. Dick has been in the armed forces for two years. OiiTcr HcBfaiMn was commissioned a sec­ond lieutenant in the Harines. He completed his flight training course at Pensacola, Fla. 
Writing from Philadelphia, where he was at­tached to the local FBI office. Ott* Sckerer sent a financial contribution Notre Dameward. Otto was married in June, 1942. to Agnes Cahalan, a former instructor at St. Hary's. 
Ray Meyer, phenomenal coach of the phenome­nal De Paul, Chicago^ basketball team last season, was voted the "coach of the year" honors in late Harch by the Chicago Basketball Writers* Assod­ation. Doug Hills, Illinois coach, was a close sec­ond, and Gc«rse Kc«can. late N.D. coach, was third. By his selection, Ray will have possession of the George E. Keogan Hemorial Trophy for the next year. B«b Kensberser was third in the Association's voting on the most valuable pUurer to play in the Chicago Stadium last season. Phillip and Menke» both of Illinois, were first and sec­ond, respectively. 
Lt. (j.e,) Joe Knharich is at Dartmouth for training following a spell at the naval air base, Glenview, III, 
When the latest report came in, Dick Bowes had finished his quartermaster's course at Har­vard and was at Camp Lee, Va. 
1939 
Vincent W. DeCourscy, 1321 Georgia, Kansas City, Kans. 
From Vince DeConrsey: lliis month finds news rather scarce; one letter and a note being all that the postman had to ring for, aside from sundry communications from the local utility company and the Tidie Didie Company. 
Letter, however, was welcome news from one­time sage of St. Louis, Jack Griffin, — beg par­don, 2nd Lt. GrifRn. Jack says modestly of him­self that he is in Washington and that shortly after arrival his Commander-in-Chief was able to take a little time off to see how the rest of the country was going. In fact, says Jack, "I've made such an impression on Washington as a second lieutenant that I'll probably be a second lieutenant for a long time to come." 
But Jack also says that Monk Sullivan, now a transfigured lieutenant in the Armored Forces, is the happy husband of a lovely neighbor of his in St. Louis. Lucy Lonsway. 

While at Camp Crowder, Mo., Jack often bumped into Lt. Frank Xo\-ak, married and liv­ing in Neosho, Mo. Although after the high waters of last week, it is probable that Frank is ii\*ing on a raft somewhere south of Memphis. Among other contacts of this lonely correspon­dent. Jim McGoIdrick, v.ith the FBI in Detroit, is the best letter writer. In Washington it is possible to bump into any number of the boys: Joe Nigra (Colorado), Geonre Howard, Tom Kin­nealey (attending Georgetown Law), Bad Kerr (noiv an ensign). In New York Jack ran into Joe McDermott coming out of Mass at St. Pat's, Joe being due for a commission in V-7 in July. 
Lt. Larry Doyle, although in Washington with Jack, was at the time of letter-writing, in Chi­cago for the purpose of attending his wedding — to one Virginia Wolf, whom I seem to remember as someone from St. Mary's. 
That was all from Jack and we hope that when he does return from that cruise that he'll bring back news about all the boys relaxing on the sands of Sunny Italy, or Java, or wherever he finds them relaxing. 
Note mentioned ecrlier was to the effect that Ensirn Michael P. Cloasc has received his M.D. from the College' of Medicine, University of Cin­cinnati, on Feb. 24 and was then to go to a hos­pital in Dayton, O. 
Held over from last issue is a letter from Bud HcEneamey, who has an interesting tale to tell. He spent a few months in Detroit with Ford and then the next three years in Trinidad. B.W.I. He says that in the past year or so about enough N.D. men have come to the Islands to make a club: Matt Hdnemy, *37, Joe Bch, ex. MO. Jimmy Brown, '40, and a few of the older alumni. Bill Shake­speare was a regular visitor to and from South America and Georce Haggerty dropped in during his -wonderings -with the Marines. 
Even after three years away. Bud found that his draft board had not forgotten about him w*hen he returned on leave in January; he was put into lA. Where are yoo row. Bud? 
And that seems to be tho works for the month. AVhat happened? 
John McGuire was in early April elected secre­tary of the Independent Pneumatic Tool Company, Chicago, of which Neil Hurley, *32. was at the same time elected executive vice-president. 
Addresses: 2nd Lt. Bill Oakcs, Reception Cen­ter, Camp Blanding. Fia.; Capt. Edward A. Fal­lon. APO 620, c|o F'ostmaster, Miami, Fla. 2nd Lt. Leon Lancaster has been assigned to the War Department's Office of Dependency Benefits in Newark. N. J. Major Frank X. Bradley was at Notre Dame for a short visit on May 8. His ad­dress: 5th A.A.F. F.T.D., Bennettsi--ille, S. C. Frank had four promotions in 18 months. 
Thomas P. Neill, M.A. '59, is the author of "Weighing the Peace Plans** which appeared in the May issue of "CJoIumbia." Tom is an in­structor in Aquinas College, Grand Rapids, Mich. 
2nd L t Charles F. Daly is at the Merced Army Air Field, Merced, Calif. Tom Cronin, Pittsburgh, was commissioned a second lieutenant on April 7 at the Adjutant General's OCS, Ft. Washington, Md. Dr. Dan Murphy, the father of John Martin Murphy, born Jan. 29, was graduated on Feb. 20 from the St. Louis U. med school, along with Dr. James B. Daley and Dr. Carraelo Victor Ba­rone, also of '39. 
Lt. Arnold Macs was with the Army at Chil­dress, Texas, when his mother sent a note some time ago. He was marriad on Dec. 15, 1941. 
Bill Mahoncy has teen promoted to lieutenant (j-g.) at Del Monte. Calif., where he is connected with the Navy'Pre-Flight School. 
ROGERS IS AIR HERO 
CAPT. JOHN F. ROGERS, '40, the New Jersey Marine flyer now stationed at the Naval Air Station, Atlanta, Ga., is one of the air heroes of Marine combat in the Pacific Member of squadron whtdt has 96 Jap planes to its credit, John has bsen recommended for the DiBtinguished Flyinr Cross and the Silver Star for "gallantry and intrepidity" in action. His squadron has a record of losing only one plane te every 30 of the enemy's shot down. 
John entered the Marines soon after he was graduated from Notre Dame and has served at many points in the Pacific. 
1940 
Robert G. Ssnferd. 3934 N. Maiyluid ATe., miwaakee, Wla. 

Sgt. and Class Sec Bob Sanford is down at Camp Lee, Va., now, in the OCS of the Quar­termaster's Department, and is. according to his father, busier than hades — of course. But Mr. Sanford came through beautifully for his offspring by forwarding from Milwaukee letters from Phil Canale and Doc Cnrran. 
Phil's address: 1st Lt. Philip M. Canale. Jr.. AC, 0-559661, 379th Bomb Sq., 310th Bomb Gp., APO No. 520, c/o Postmaster, New York, N. Y. From "Somewhere in North Africa" Fhil sent this grand V-letter to Bob: 
"The other day I got my hands on the Febru­ary issue of the 'Alumnus* and devoured each line with great interest. Roger Shoavlin. who finished at N.D., and is now a lieutenant in this group, had received it. end passed it on to me. 
"I particularly enjoyed your column in the 'Alumnus.* It felt like 'old home we^k' reading about the boys of '40. It seems that N.D. is quite well represented all over the globe. Surprisingly, to me, in all my wanderings I have not run across many N.D. men whom I know. I under­stand that Ted Jodiems, *40. is an officer in a nearby fighter outfit and doing very well for himself — but I have not seen him yet. Saw Jade Httsscy in December when he was on his way to Harvard to finish his training in the Navy. What has become of Ray Allen, Tom Browninff, and Bob Brad}'? Would like for them to write me. 
"I can give you a little information on some of the Memphis boys, even though mcst of them are not of the class of '40 — but perhaps you re­member some of them. Bob. Dorscy Mathts, '40, is a civilian adviser to the Army in Memphis; Martin McGinnis is a captain in the second ar­mored regiment at Fort Riley, Kans. He finished in '39. Jim Montcdonico, '40, is a lieutenant in the Quartermaster Corps; Jimmy Welsh, '41, is an ensign, and now on the West Coast; my brother, Dan. is in OCS, at present at Ft. Ben­ning. Ga. He finished N.D. in '42. 
"As for myself. Bob, after being graduated from NJ>., I had one year of law at Vandarbilt University, then 'graduated' into the Army in the summer of '41. Made my way to corporal, then through OCS at Miami Beach, being com­missioned in June. 1942. I was married right after getting my commission. At present. I am living under field conditions here in Africa, and it is pretty rough — not a bit like home! — but am feeling fine, keeping busy, and we are giving 'em hell. Hope to have this campaign ended soon, and after that — who knows? 
''During Lent, we had Mass here every morn­ing at 6:30, and we recited the rosary and Lit­any of the Blessed Virgin during Mass —• with me as the 'master of ceremonies!' We could re­ceive Holy Communion without the customary fast. Yesterday, E:ister, we had Mass in the morning and the ceremony was very impressive. The improvised altar was decorated with fresh flowers which we purchased from a nearby city. The money for the flowers was procured through 8 collection taken up on Palm Sunday — a collec­tion taken up in my steel helmet which was still wet from my morning shave and wash. At Mass yesterday we also had a small choir, and a violin and piano. 'Ave Maria' was played during the consecration. Since a large percentage of the I>ersonneI in this group is Catholic, we had a full house. 
"Keep up the good work. Bob, and let me hear from you when you find time. Mail is more im­portant than food over heret Give my regards to any of the boys you run across — and see if you can get the 'Alumnus* sent to me!" 
John "Doc** Carran is now bombardier student in the Pre-Flight School, U.S. Army Air Corps, Ellington Field, Texas, after serving six months in Alaska. An eight-day furlough, between Alas­ka and Texas, brought about Doc*s engagement to Virginia Szymanski, and the marriage is scheduled to come up just as soon as he is grad­uated from Air Corps training. 
Doc said he had had a letter from Sgt. Art Lancaster, "somewhere in the west Pacific** When Art wrote, his brother, Leon, was in OCS. He's since been graduated and commissioned. 
"Ask Phil Sandmaier when you hear from him if he wants to continue the Detroit-Cleveland baseball bet we had at N.D.," says Doc. . . . "Would be glad to hear from Caird, H'jrnsky. Jchn Flynn and Lee Santini. How about it, fel­low^s? Drop me a line." 
The "Chicago Tribune" on Mcy 12 told, in a dispatch from New Guinea of the remarkable Qq>loita of Capt. John P. Henebry, an enthusiastic fl;*er, in flying Mitchell Bombers. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
"There is" no w^r work he would rather do than Hy attack bombers, and not anything he would rather do wiih a bomber than strafe," the story said. 
John left San Frnncisco last July, arriving in Australia in August and in New Guinea in Jan­uary. He has participated in innumerable combat missions, including the Bismarck Sea battle in which his plane got three hits. He had had many close calls, but only one member of his crew had been wounded on all his flights. 
ED HENNESSY HONORED 

In recosrnition of his high achievement. 1st lit. Edward J. Hennessy, Jr., *40, of Chicago, has been awarded the Oak Leaf Cluster by the War Department. Ed, who on Jan. 27 piloted the first American plane to cross Germany in the first all-American raid of the present war, had earlier re­ceived the Air Medal. 
John Callaghan is a first lieutenant. At the lat­est report he was stationed with the 71st C.A.AJ\.. in Washington. D. C John Duke Ellis, U.S.S. 
Y.M.S. 226 c/o Fleet Postoffice. New York. N. Y., writes to Bob Sanford as follows: "While in the States I met Jim Tansey, Ensign Bill Hawcs and Brother Donald Cawley, now Ensign Cawley. I was on K.P. serving officers* mess when I met Hawcs and Cawley, They nearly dropped their beans. Then just day before yesterday I was sur­prised to meet Enngn Tom Hoban, formerly of South Bend, here on the dock. They were all in fine fettle. Also some time ago a letter from Bert Smith, ex. '38, from somewhere within the Arctic Circle with an Army construction outfit. I am on a mine sweeper and find the life pleas­ant and hot too strenuous for my indolent dispo­sition. Brother Rex is stiU with FBI and well. Likes it plenty." 
Bill Fay was commissioned a second lieutenant at Ft. Benning. Ga., and assigned to public rela­tions work at Field Headquarters, 2nd Army, APO 402. Nashville, Tenn. William D. Sollivan is an accident investigator with the Western Electric Co.. Kearny. N. J. 2nd Lt. Vince Doyle is with the 444th Bombardment Group, Davis-Monthan Field. Tucson, Ariz. Lt. Paul E. Hickey is with the 31st Engineers Hdq. Co., Ft. Belvoir, Va. Service address for Dan McLaaghlin, Y3/c, USNR: 22S0 Board of Trade. Chicago. 
2nd Lt. Bob Sollivan is with the A.A.F. School of Applied Tactics, Orlando, Fla. 1st Lt. Pan! Hellmnth is in England, in command of a medium maintenance ordnance company. Ed Hart was commissioned in the Signal Corps and. at the latest report, was stationed at Ft. Monmouth, 
N. J. It's Pvt. Robert C. Grisanti, Hq. & Hq. Det. 475th Q.M. (Truck) Rgt.. Camp Blanding. Fla. Just before the Army got him, early in the year. Bob was graduated in law from Western Reserve and passed the Ohio bar. Dick Steffaniak, South Bend, was assigned to OCS at Camp Lee, Va. Ben Mardocic, South Bend, was among the many Notre Darners graduated as ensigns at Abbott Hall. Chicago, on April 23. 
1941 
Set. J«lui W. Patterson, Jr., 5530 Dar­lington Rd., Pittsbwah, Pa. 
Here is the current • address for your secretary who, having landed in North Africa on Nov. 8, is hardly in a spot to carry on actively the duties of his secretarial office: Sgt. John W. Patterson, Jr.. HQ. 1st Inf. Div.. APO No. 1. New York, 
N. y., ASN 33145968. TVs a safe bet that P^t would appreciate hearing from a lot of the mob. 
Ye olde "Scholastic" tycoon is right back in the groove, serving on the editorial staft of *T1i« American Traveler," a daily mimeographed sheet published for American troops in North Africa. Pat sent a copy of it to Prof. Dick SaUiran with a letter in mid-January, and part of the first page of it was reproduced on April 4 in the "Pittsburgh Press," Pat's pre-military employer. 
Pat's dad forwarded to the Alumni Office a copy of a letter from Don Marietta who is with du-Pont in Niagara Falls as material control engi­neer for the plant. Don has a new daughter, bom March 7. Working with him is R. M. Charley, '37, who is the expediting and traffic ftuperrisor. Of Don's two N.D. brothers, Paal, ex, '44, is with the Air Corps at Keesler Field, Miss., and John, ex. '45, is at home in Clinton. Ind.. awaiting an assignment following his CPT training in Fort Wayne, Ind. Don would like to hear from Ed Lahey, '40. 
Latest available addresses: Lt. Arthur D. Had­dalena. Sub Chaser Training Center, Miami, Fla.; Ist Lt. Frederick E. Fowler, Casual Co.. Marine Barracks. - Navy Yard. Pearl Harbor, T. H.; Ensign Richard E. Ball, N.T.S.. Ft. Schuyler, Bronx, New York City (staff member) ; Lt. RiA­ard E. Dora, Hdqs. 28th QM Regt. APO 700, c/o Postmaster, N. Y.; 2nd Lt. James BL Gartland, Hotel Wentworth. Asbury Park, N. J.; Lt. Donald 
G. Smarinsk}', 1997 QM Co.. Trk. Avn. L.AJ\..B. No. 2, Lakeland, Fla.; Ist Lt. Charies D. SUple­ton. 117th Inf., APO 30, Camp Blanding, Fla.; Lt. James D. Wrape, 383rd Bomb. Group, 542nd Sq., Rapid City Army Base, Rapid City, S. D.: Paul Schiappacasse, 11th A.A.FJ'.T.D., Class 43­H, Flight H, Ryan Field, Tucson, Ariz.; Earl D. Bagan l|2c. Staff, Commander Amphibious Force, South Pacific No. 620-17-61. c/o Fleet Post Office, San Francisco. 
2nd Lt. Ed Alexander has been assigned to the War Department's Office of Dependency Benefits, Newark, N. J. Ensign Bob Osterman is in Aus­tralia. Milt Williams was promoted to first lieu­tenant in England where he is (was) with Army intelligence. 
Lt. Bill McGowan, now running tanks instead of the "Scholastic," stopped at the University briefly in May. Bill has moved around so much that even his best friends can't keep up with him. 
Ensign Tom Reis wrote on April 7 as follows: "Got my commission on Dec. 24 and went to Washington, D. C. for a month. There I saw Ensign Ralph Gerra who's been in the Navy for over a year now. Also saw Enugn JaA Gaitlwr and his wife. Met 2nd Lt. Bmce Hebenstrcit of 
U.S.M.C.R. quite casually on a street car there. 
"Came dow^n to Miami to learn how to sink subs and expect a change of address darned soon now. Down here I've seen Lt. (j.g.) R«ss Harris just back from the Canal Zone and Ensicn Mifce Lambert, both here at sub chaser sdiool. Lt. FanI Brownfield just graduated from OCS at Miami Beach. Ensign Eddie Laricin is in the Naval Air Corps down here. 1st Lt. Bill Welsh is with the Army Air Corps here. And I've been out with Cap Jehring of the FBI several times." 
1942 
Winiam E. Scanlan. 191 W. Pleasant St, Portage, Wis. 
From Bill Scanlon: 
Greetings from Fort Sheridan. Not long ago I got up to the Great Lakes-N.D. game. Mickey Cochrane's team won, 8 to 3, but it was probably the largest audience a Notre Dame baseball team every played before. At least 10,000 Navymen were on hand — and those three standbys of the Naval Station's basketball team who got their earlier practice at Notre Dame — George Softdc* Bastcr Hiller and Eddie Riska — were dugout visitors. 
So was Efaaer Laydea, looking as nif^ as ever. He was guest of honor for the day. Also had « chance to visit with Stevie Favela, from mr old home town of La Crosse, and soch current bsseballers as plug-dewing Elmer MUfimaB* Didc Graat» Dick Kbcai, and Aaida BcrtcM. Coach Jake KUae let me take over as score­keeper for the occasion. Hal Smalfea didn't fare so well with some of the mi^ty major league stars of the Great Lakes nine, bat he sorely scored 1.000 hurling against the great Johaaj Mize, former New York Giant. Hixe struck oat twice and grounded out to Smallen in bis three appearances. 
Other his^lights of the game were Tea Shce­han's home raa and PftTda's nmii'as grab of Pelligrini's swat to deep ri^t-center in the dxth. 
Dashing back to the gate. Ensign Ray Ray, oar track captain, came over. He's been at the Lalus for some time and looked as gay as ever. Said he had heard from Beb Bacfcc who is oS to sea, the Navy way. And Jahnny KUhane is living In "tent city" at a Jacksonville. Fla.. Army base. 
We had one for the books here recently — our own version of "Military Courtesy and IHsci­pline:'* A colonel gave a general a pass. The paai was granted by Lt. CmL Kayaimd J. KcDr. Bsy Kcily, Jr.'s dad. to General D. Hendricks, a private from Eastman, Ga. . . . One of CoL Kelly's bat­teries recently captured a baby fox as a mascot. . . . Ray, the man-about-St. Mary's of oar era, was a visitor at Fort Sheridan in his natty en­sign's uniform. .. . He's currently stationed with the Navy at Little Creek, Va., near Norfolk. . . . Ray had met Chack M^eill and Bab Hargrave at Norfolk awhile back and rex>orted that TMB Carty, the other half of the Board of IHrectors for "Dome," Is in an Army camp In Canada, or was it Alaska? Ray recently became a father — and his charming young wife, the former Kay LaVasseur of St. Mary's, was here too. 
Hugh Fullerton, Jr., Associated Press colum­nist, reports that Ensign George Anderson, for­mer Stanford sprinter, and Enstga Jim Brati have a reciprocal agreement at the JacksdnviUe, Fhu, naval air station — they exchange sym­phonic records. 
Two sons of Notre Dame — the Nageats of Chicago — are serving with the U.S. Army. Pvt. Jae is in the signal corps while Technician Tea 
A. Is in the south Pacific. 
One of the most Interesting persons I have met while at Fort Sheridan Is Mrs. B. J. Rosenthal of Chicago. She recently donated a golf coarse for the men stationed here — she Is also a for^ mer St. Mary's stodent and recalled meeting Father Sorin way back when. . . . His long white beard parUeolarly impressed her. 
Lt. CeL B. Otta Pnbat, a Notre Dame man from South Bend whose hobby is collecting mate­rial of golf, writes from Camp Croft, S. C , that he is adding material of the golf course here to his huge scrapbook which Is currently In dost protectors In Sonth Bend. 
Another report has It that Easiga Jim Hacfcaer of our class, a recent graduate of the UJS. Naval Reserve Midshipmen's school at Columbia U.. New York, Is on inshore patrol doty in New York harbor. 
Hie assistant supply officer here is Lt. Kabcrt 
E. Flanneiy, the 19.year-old officer here who last semester attended NJ>. He was a classmate tfaoe of Axdi Ward*a son. llie fellows here call him "Tanglefoot," but he's really a fine young oflleer 
— his nickname came about the first couple of days here when he got his feet going In the wrong direction trjring to do an about face b ^ fore his company. 
Robert (Red) liHiergaa, a Hay graduate who lives at nearby Wllmette. HI., says Andy Cbenwy 
and Eddie Callahan were among those receiving: degrees — which will be news to many of the old Sorin boys. Ray Dono^-an is stiU holding the fort in sports publicity at N.D. Also a note from Mai Elwsrd, the former Purdue coach. His son. Alien, was recently killed in a plane crash — another Notre Dame man giving his life for the Mighty Cause. 
C3iariey Kleibacker postcards from Birmingham, Ala., where he is currently on the staff for the Birmingham "Age-Herald" — another of Dr. J. 
M. Cooney's boys making good. 
We doff our hats this month to the newsy and lengthy report via Ensign Joe Champley who checks in from Cambridge. Mass., and Harvard this way: 
"I've promised myself I'd \\Tite ages ago, but it took a couple of back issues of the 'Alumnus* (which were just received this morning. May 4) to finally get the ball rolling. To begin with, I reported to 'Fair Har\'ard* last Jan, 2. My orig­inal orders were to the communications school, but as a result of a competitive examination I was transferred to the Radar School here on Feb. 
27. I know several Chem engineers who are go­ing to wonder how I ever got into a highly techni'al cle.tronic corrse Tie answer, boys, is: 
•I don't have the slightest idea.' At my new sta­tion I found myself in the company of such fast steppers as Andy Gorka and Bob Heil. As a mat­ter of fact. Bob and I are lab partners. Heil came to Boston after spending the biggest part of the winter in Holly^vood, Fla. We both agree that after a taste of New England weather. In­diana's edition of same is practically 'the fairest of the fair/ 
"I ran into several of the boys in Chicago just before I left last Christmas. Among them was Jim O'Neal, and also his bride. Jim is now sta­tioned in Boston but I'm ashamed to admit that we haven't been able to get together as yet. I also chanced to meet Tom Tcamey, Leo Lee, and Sam Boyle just a few days before they were commissioned ensigns last Dec. 24. 
"On my way east I made a couple of stopovers — one in Canton, O., (for reasons which are no­body's business, even if she did go to 'the Rock*) and another at Jersey City where Ed Monahan and Mel Rammel helped me celebrate 'my last night on shore,' so to speak. Boston isntt the best town in the countrj*. but it's not the worst either, especially with so many Notre Darners around here to fight the Battle of Har\-ard Square. Here is just a partial list of the alum­ni club we have here (some of these boys have been here and gone); Bud Murray, Bud Shouvlin, Cfinck Deeer, Joe McKcnna, Jim Fayette, and BUI Madden, all Supply Corps ensigns; Jack Garvey, Frank Pollnow, Danny Holwell, Bob Nolan, '40, Dick Campbell, *36, Ted Winkle, '35, and Professors Hanlcy and Fitzgerald — all offi­cers in the Communications School. (Incidentally, Ensign Ed Flannigan, *35, is the most popular instructor in the Comm. School), 
"Remember Bob Cahill? He*s now wearing one and a half stripes on his sleeve and is attached to Communications schools here. Attending the Harvard Business School are such men as Gene Sdumucher, Vinee Shiely, Jchn Malone and Jim PnrcelL It's no wonder that the 10 o'clock Mass at St. Paul's brings back memories of Sacred Heart Church. If only Har\ard had a Golden Dome we could* borrow! 
"Since May 2 -was the Communion Breakfast Sunday for the alumni clubs, 13 of us got to­gether for the occasion. A word of praise is due Jerry Kmierew and Fred Hoover, who organized the affair. Both are midshipmen at the Naval Supply School here, and did a grand job in spite of the fact that their liberty hours are practically non-existent. 
"I went down to New York for Easter and had 

quite a time. Since it was the anniversary of Senior Ball, Vaughn Monroe's music was quite appropriate. Met Paul Lillis at the Commodore. He and Larry Kelley are shipmates, en P.T/fc. Paul looks like he could still play 60 minutes of ball, so the 'mosquitoes' must agree with him. Also chanced upon SUn Littizctte. He's a private in the Signal Corps, stationed at Edison, N. J. The old standbys, Monahan and Rammel, were on hanJ, :o we : 11 lad a parly. Ed is now at the Georgetown Med School and Mel is putting his, knowledge of aero engineering to good use in New York. Biggest surprise of all was seeing Bill Mardiall. Better I should say Ensign Bill Marshall — and after last Saturday's ALNAV it is probably Lt. (j.g.) Marshall. New York was Bill's first American port in seven months. He has been all over the Atlantic and Pacific with the Armed Guard. His gold is so salty it's actu­ally green, and he's wearing a chest full of cam­paign ribbons (and I don't mean Willkie buttons, either). Bill looked every inch a naval officer, and being the 'Land Admiral* that I am, I felt just a little guilty in his presence. A snappy salute to Bill, the corsage salesman de luxe, who really knows what this war is all about. 
"Andy Gorka had a letter from Ensign Earl Dean. Earl is now out in the south Pacific mak­ing things hot for those sons of Nippon. My, my, how those chemical engineers get around these days. But the accountants don't do badly, either. My old roomie, Larry Aubrey, is over in North Africa with Chuck Ghesis. Sgt. Aubrey's latest letter says in part: 'We have a jeep all to our­selves — I never did think that I would ever be running around Africa in a "convertible!** Latest word from Joe Diamond is that he is now a cor­poral at Camp McCoy, Wis. Up there one day the non-coms and privates played a challenge baseball game. The bargain was that the losers had to do Sunday K.P. The non-coms won, he tells me; but then he's an M.P., and who ever heard of an M.P. coming out second best in anything? 
**Bi!J Kcyes and Al Perrine, '41, both ensigns, reported for duty in Communications here on April 1. Bill is a benedict now, having taken himself a wife last winter. Rumor has it that John Borda is now married, and that he now writes USNR after his name. If anyone knows of John's whereabouts, I'd appreciate it if they would pass the word along that I'd like to hear from him sometime. Another man who seems to have been swallowed up by the earth is Jade Conn'- ^Vhen last seen, he was designing aircraft in St. Louis. I still think he took that job just so he could see the World Series. I'd like to hear a little news about Jack (Smoothie) Bc^en. Ap­parently Jackson has quit writing to his friends not that he 'works for the War Department.' Come, come, John, those shots didn't have that much effect on your right (write) arm, did they?" 
From another branch of the ser\*ice and from Cherry Point, N. C, comes this report from Lt. Danny Cullinane, the Walsh hall phy. ed.: 
"Receive the N.D. 'Alumnus' quite regularly now and sure enjoy reading it. It's a swell job and I'm sure all the boys appreciate it. Since I've left school I've tried to keep in contact ^rith some of them but due to so much moving around, it's tough. I'd like to get in contact with Ed O'Kane and Harry Flanacan. the Long Island boys. If anyone knows where they are, do write me. My address is: Lt. Daniel Cullinane, Mag. 32—Third Wing, U.S. Marine Corps Air Station, Cherry Point, N. C. 
"I've heard from Bill Tobin lately and he's doing fine. Stationed at C^mp Kilmer in the country of the gods — New Jersey. Stationed here at Cherry Point are the three branches of service and our boys are w-ell represented in each. I'd say off hand there are at least 10 N.D. men around. Among them are Capt. Leising, Lt. Mor­rey. Ensign Whitey Lee, McGovcm — a good crew to be with in any business." 
llie class president comes through with a bat­tered postcard, dated March 27. Take over Prexy Jim O'Neal: 

"I've been busy — who hasn't? — with my work in the Navy. Just finished a 10-weeks course in Boston; am now (March 27) on my way to Miami for a further training period of eight weeks. I really miss N.D. and all the won­derful times all of us enjoyed; I hope the ma­jority of our class fares well throughout this mess. And a thought that each of us should re­member his classmates — we all need the aid." 
Good idea, Jim — let's think of that once in awhile. 
It's been quite a time since we've heard of that popular engineer. So here's to Lt- Ed Bnenger reporting in from Camp Van Dom, Miss.: "Just recently I have received the latest copy of the 'Alumnus' and have naturally found a great deal of pleasure in reading its interesting pages. I'm indeed glad to read the news of what members of our class are doing in all parts of the world. Without this reading contact which we have with each other, the members of our class would surely feel forgotten not only by each other but by our Alma Mater. 
"I haven't been a very faithful contributor but I promise to keep in better touch with you in the future. [Good idea, Eddie]. Two days after I graduated, I entered the ser\*ice and since that time I have enjoyed a world of interesting ex­periences. My first assignment took me to Camp Wolters, Texas, where shortly after my arrival I was sent to a motor maintenance school and have been engaged in this type of work ever since. I received further training in motor main­tenance in the school for that purpose at Fort Benning, Ga. Shortly after returning, I was trans­ferred to my present location at Camp Van Dorn where I have been acting as a battalion trans­port officer here ever since. Since this is about as close to mechanical en^ncering as I have been able to come in the infantry, I have enjoyed it very much. 
"Since graduating, I have seen only two of our classmates. One was Frank Brehl whom I met in Chicago while on • a 10-day leave last October. The other was Corp. Kelley who attended 
N.D. from *3S through '40. I believe his name is James, and he played basketball. He is assigned to the same regiment as I am — in the 394th." 
Another postcard correspondent shows up in the form of news from Lt. Frank Piatt, the Johnstown, Pa., phy.-ed.: 
"I'm on my way to Camp Roberts, Calif. Re­ceived my commission from Fort Benning on March 22. Army life definitely agrees with me. No news of our '42 grads. Will wTite later. And my address: Lt. F. J. Piatt. Camp Roberts, Calif." 
Good old Hoot Gibson, the Sorin substir, sends this from somewhere in North Africa, dated March 24. I wonder if Mr. Connolly is listening, or maybe he's a mess sergeant: 
"This is something I have been going to do for a long time. The arrival of the 'Alumnus' yesterday [glad to hear it gets places overseas, . Hoot] again reminded me so. now I'll turn to writing and do it. 
"I have been in service for quite some time now with the Navy. At the present time I am in North Africa. My exact location and what I am doing is a deep dark secret — I guess. Life here isn't bad at all. We have s^vell chow — it caaals snytftliir N.D. ever pot oat. We have nightly shows — of course they aren't the latest Broadway hits, but they are good entertainment and they certainly help to keep our minds off our 
, friends in the States. 
"I am glad the 'Alumnus* arrives regularly. It really keeps me in contact with the rest of the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 45 
lads. The death of Matty Byrne was quite a blow. Incidentally, I guess you and I are the only ones who are still enlisted men. I haven't run into any of the lads but I hope to soon. Keep pushing that pen because we all want to hear about one another." 
The address: Frank Euscne Gibson, SF3p. 120th Naval Construction Battalion, cfo Fleet ptost Office, New York, N. Y. 
One of our most faithful contributors, Mrs. Lora Lashbrook, Dean Clarence E. Manion's right-hand aide, comes through with this report on the lawyers of our era: 
"Things are very, very quiet on the campus right now. All the students left on or before May 2. and will not return until July 1, when all but about 700 of them will be in Navy uni­forms- Having become accustomed to the Navy by reason of the several Navy classes who have trained here during the past year, the mere fact of uniformed students will not be so strange, but having such a minority of civilian students will be unusual. 
"Commencement on May 2, ending the first half of the scholastic year, produced only one law graduate. He was Tom Cain of Niles, Mich. Tom was injured in an automobile accident in June. 1941, lacking only two semesters of his law course. Last fall the Director of Studies and the Dean arranged a course of study for him to pursue at home through the two semesters, and after obtaining permission of the Associa­tion of American Law Schools, Tom was regis­tered and began the last year of law study. His diploma was awarded at his home in Niles on Commencement Day by Dean Manion. 
"The Anderson brothers. Louie and Harry, are in South Bend. Harry in private practice and Louis is preparing for his Indiana Bar examina­tions. Both are married. The Navy has commis­sioned these men, and all of them are on active duty somewhere: Anthony Bernard, Ed Kelly, Joe Miller, Jerry O'Dowd, Hank Sdirenker, Pete Alonzi, Mervin Baran, Cecil Jordan. Tom Tear­ney, Paul Kashmer, Jerry Feeney, and Ted Frericks. Soon to be commissioned by the Navy are: Fred Hoover, Jerry Killigrew, Jerome Gold, Joe Lane and John Wnertx. Gold and Tearney are not yet graduated from the Law School but their names are on our Roll of Honor. 
"The Marines have commissioned Joe Barr. now Lt. Barr. and will soon commission Robert Sinon, Walter Jones and Jack Finnegan. Barr will soon be on active duty and he reported that it was the threat of his possible assignment to the African front that caused the Germans to surrender! The report was not confirmed by Marine Headquarters. 
"The Army Air Corps call took Jack Hackett, Dick Brydces and John Coserove. All three are undoubtedly training in an area - where no mail service is provided! (Hint). 
"In service with the Army in almost as many different capacities as there are men enlisted are: James D. Lancaster. Rocco Monteffna, Jim Nen, Robert Sullivan, Ernest Timpani, Alex Tsiolis, John Ward, John Yerdonk, Danny DahiU, Jim Diver, Charles Hasson, Bill Hosinski, Tim Maher, 
J. P. Meyer, Joe Lavery, George Stratigos, Don Patrick, Al Romeo, Andy Chemey, Bob Stewart. Peter Gnlcfa, Steve Qninn, and Charles Cava­naagfa* 
"The *42 grads we hear of who have been married recently are John P. Meyer, now Lt. Meyer of the U.S.A., John Verdonk, Joe Miller, William Spancler and Dick Swisher. Verdonk is a lieutenant in the Army also, and Miller an en­sign in the Navy and currently on duty with the Pacific Fleet 
"The Federal Bureau of Investigation took Bill Mooney, Jim McGoIdrick, John Killen, Bob Ridn ardson and Jim LanK as special agents. At last reporting, McGoIdrick was in Detroit, Mooney in Springfield, 111., Richardson and Lang in the Louisville office, and Killen in the West soma place. 
"Of those who are, or were, still in civilian life. Jordan Hamel is with a trust company in Chicago, John Speca in private practice in Wis­
'consin, Dick Swisher with an accounting firm in Chicago. Jack Barry was expecting to enter the Army several weeks ago but we have no recent report from him. Bill Syring is with the Treas­ury Department in Washington and is doing some graduate work at Catholic TJ., and Dids Focarty is presently preparing for the bar examinations and is still in South Bend. 
"Leo Linck is employed in the Michigan Su­preme Court and will be inducted as soon as he is recovered from the effects of a serious accident suffered in a defense plant a few weeks ago. Harry Murray is employed in the legal division of the Chicago Board of Education, and Jim Daner is working in South Bend until he gets the 'returns* on a recent Michigan bar examina­tion. Bill Hogan offered his services to the Army via the Enlisted Reserve Corps while still in school, and has been expecting the call since graduation in December, but so far hasn't I>een welcomed in the khaki corps. He. too. is still in South Bend. 
"Ward Rafferty has his naval commission sev­eral months and is no doubt on active duty some place. We have no recent news of him. Lawrence Ferguson was called to the Army but was given a medical discharge at camp. He is now employed in the legal department of Bendix. in South Bend after success in the March Indiana bar exam­inations." Fine work. Mrs. Lashbrook. 
Now here's one for th'e books — Hank (Moose) Dahm has been coaching a baseball team. Shades of Jake Kline, class of *42 model. Take over. Hank from Normandy, Mo.: 
"It's about time I dropped a line, yep even from Missou. to report in the little gossip I could pick up. At the moment (May 15),' I am actins [we can imagine that. Hank] as head baseball coach at one of the local schools around here. and having quite a time. It's really not bad. the life of a coach! My draft board assured me that by June 10 I would be in the Army, so until then I guess I'll keep this coaching job. There are not too many fellows around here as it is, so I'm kind of looking forward to joining the rest of you fellows in service. 
"Heard from Lt. Jack Dinges some time ago and he is still in Florida, only this time he writes that he is no longer an adjutant, but is drilling men instead. I understand Tom Hennigan is an ensign, but where he is stationed I do not know. Same goes for Ed Mangelsdorf. Ed Griese­dieck is happily married and now is working at has father's brewery. Say, Scoop, did you ever hear anything from or about Joe Donlon? He was drafted first part of our senior year. The last I heard was that he is in the field artillery. If anyone knows his whereabouts, I'd like to hear." 
Don't be surprised if Sgt- Paul Neville gets nation-wide acclaim soon for helping to write a book. More later. The New York "limes" Sun­day magazine of May 2 printed a chapter on Corregidor. . . . That's hint enough. 
Paul, still stationed at Richmond, Va.. Army Air Base where he's currently editing the "Re­flector," was recently visiting New York and Philadelphia. Seems he met a gal named UUian some place, and also saw Joe Lane salute an im­aginary flag at John Jay steamship (F^ul claims). "He looks sharp in a uniform and we had a nice half-hour visit during which I learned that he was expecting a week-end visit from Messrs. KiUigrcw and somebody else from Harvard's naval supply department." 
Kcvilfe also reports that CpL Emmett Keenan fell and broke an arm and is in the Camp Bowie, Texas, station ho^ital. He was on ma­neuvers as s manager of the mobile PX awhile hack. Jae Hractenc is in the Air Force S^ool of Applied Tactics at Orlando. Fla.. having been transferred from California and earlier at a Nevada bombing and gunnery range. Tom Pow­cra is vnih an HP outfit in New York. Gcarge StraticM^ also with Neville, has been transferred to another unit from the base legal office — a WAAC took his place, ^ s inunediate superior now Is Lt. Ezrm Saltlu NJ). '40. Sgt. Paul also ran into a big N.D. fan at the Richmond K. of 
C. the other night — Jim Purcell. hut no rela­tions to ND. *42*s Jim ParccB. The Richmond rooter claims he hasn't missed a Notre Dame-Navy game in ages. Paul also met some Norfolk friends of Jalumy Bisesae, who is believed to be a naval officer now. 
The Ware. Mass.. newsman met Ja d Byan in Philadelphia church one Sunday AM. not long ago. 
With this, we'll close, and thanks to those Wts. Fliidit Innructor Schtol, Lemis School of of you are welcome. And a note from you may bring a cheer to some of our classmates "over there." Wish you could read some of the good things the fellows have written from the battle areas after they receive an "Alumnus." 
In the meantime, IP rr S NEWS, WRITE SCOOP. 
Latest addresses: Henry P. Sdirenker, Navy Wts. Flight Instructor School, Lewis School of Aeronautics; Lockport, 111.; Ensign Jolui T. Daa­neUy, 3000 Alabama Ave., S.E.. Washington. D.G.: Pfc Lev BL Hamphrey, Co. C. Inf. Bn., Court 
'House Bay, Camp Le Jeune, New River, N. C.; 
Lt. Walter J. DescI, Jr., 24 ROC, Go. A. Quan­
tico, Va. 
Jahnny Kovatdi. graduated from the OCS. was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Ma­rines. Ensign Bab Raaf was graduated in naval aviation at Jacksonvillev Fla.. and 2nd Lt. Ed Reidy was graduated at Corpus Christi. Texas, as a Marine flyer. Haward S^eUenberg was pro­moted to first lieutenant in the Medical Admin­istrative Corps at Camp Barkeley. Texas. 
Jolm Tovaignant has been given new and much more advanced responsibilities with the National Authority on Civil Aeronautics, Cleveland. His home address: 4579 W. 212th St , Rocky Ford, 
O. Bab Le Jeane is a draftsman with .the Glenn 
L. Martin Co., Middle River, Baltimore, Hd. Bab Fagan is a C.S.C. novice at St. Jos^h's Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Ind. Paal Tafel became a second lieutenant and Marine flyer at Fensacola, Fla. 
I ^j| ^ Enaiga Edward C Raney, 1723 Irofaii I 7^ 0 Ar c Detroit* Mick. From Ed Rancy: 
For the first time we're all-inclusive as the May alumni have joined our ranks. Hop on the bandwagon, men, and join the "Service Review" for that's what it consists of at this point. 
Well, the D-V(P)*s finished their two months at Dartmouth and are now trying to enjoy a very hot and humid sojourn at Princeton for another two. when they will finally discover just what Admiral Jacobs has in store for them. There are 19 of the class in the group, with Bob Rogers and Jahn Bletiger one month bdiind and still at Dart-. nwuth. 
First, a card from Blair McGowan: "finally got my February 'Alumnus.* Myself. Bab Le-Menae, Ted Barke* Le* Keating, Frank Eb>er, and Tany Giralaw are here in Camp Roberts, 
Calif. Don't know about the others but LcMense and I are in *'6", 89th Infantry Training Bat­talion. We are a heavy weapons outfit and it*s plenty tough! £ven those 'rouRh' Marine room­mates of mine, Morrill and McKim, would find it comparable to tbeir training." 
He later wrote another note saying he had ranked right near the top in machine gun firing. Nice shooting, HcGoon! 
Two letters from John Powers. He's down at Camp Wolters, Texas, in U:e infantry. In the same battalion is Tom McCrccdy, his rcommate for two years. To quote John, "At Fort Sill re­ception center we lived in the same barracks with Paal BbUof. I think he was sent to cavalry training at Fort Riley, Eans. Dallas Milcm is in medical training at Camp Grant. III." His second letter has this: "I received your card but have been busier than H— and getting busier as the cycle draws to a close. It is scheduled to end on May 22 but I may be here longer as I've been asked to stay on as cadre and help train the next cycle. .. . I should get my corporal's stripes around June 1. 
"Spent the Easter week-end in Fort Worth and who should I run into at noon Mass it St. Pat's, cathedral but BiU Riley and Tom Costello, both ex. *43s. Bill transferred from the Naval Air Forf% and is now in training with the Marines at their glider base. Costello is here at Wolters with the 65th Hfie battalion. From South Bend I hear that Bob Pclencfaor is due to be drafted soon." 

A letter from Frank Fenante says that he has announced his engagement to Miss Bette Cook of South Bend. And he underwent a major opera­tion in late January. He also writes that his buddy, Joe Fritter, ex. '43, is a corporal in North Africa at present. 
From B~h Carver: "Tie first copy o£ the 'Alum­nus' has reached the w*ilds of Arkansas. It seems that the ERC finally caught up with some of us. On Feb. 3 Pat Groffan, Tom Haher, George Black-more and myself reported to New Cumberland, Pa. By the next week, Grogan, Maher and Carver saw the land of cotton. We got paid in new, crisp, and very welcome bills the first or the month. I hope our column beats 'Scoop's' record." 
Then a card from Bob Corrigan. "Read the class notes in the 'Alumnus* and enjoyed !t a lot. I'll finish my basic training with the Army Air Forces in St. Petersburg soon and expect to make use of some of the addresses you provide." 
The largest service class of Notre Dame men at any one training school graduated from Tower Hall in Chicago on April 23. There were 50 from 
N.D. Ray Sdioonhoven was retained to train fu­ture midshipmen and was fifth in class standings. I saw Ensicn Oren Sticn in New York last week waiting for further orders after having three weeks leave following graduation. He said that virtually all the men got the assignments they asked for, so, if any of you can rememter what your pals wanted, you know where they are now. After taking a course in Security I know I can't tell you where they all went, but here are some of the men that Stien mentioned that can be re­peated.' Ensicns Bob HcCafferty and Bill Mc-Caofflicy are in Sub Chaser school. Ensign Roger Camminrs is in San Diego, doing I know not what. Bart Ranuoar was transferred from Tower Hall to Notre Dame and then to Harvard for Supply Corps training. 
Ensim Ed Murray wrote the following after he got out: "I've been rather busy as Ray Schoon­hoven and I were the midshipmen company offi­cers of our company, the 41st, while at Tower Hall. I'm leaving now as I received my commis­sion with the others on Good Friday. I outdid most of the others on that day, however, as I gave Pat a diamond that afternoon. Do you re­member her, — Pat Parish of St, Mary's and Momence, HI. 
"I'm headed for the West Coast and further orders. Jim McElroy is going to Sub Chaser school, as are others from our class. Steve Ensncr goes to San Diego. Your column mnkes me home­sick for the old gang." 
I cert..;n*y do r:r: ember Paf^ end congratnli^ tions, Ed. 
Here's a letter from Chock Kane. "It's now or never. Today I was commissioned Ensign, USNR, after 15 rugged weeks. But don't rush; I wasn't there to get it. At the moment I'm in Great Lakes Hospital. Was sent here for an operation before being sent to active duty. I hope to leave here around May 1 and then be sworn in and leave for duty. 
"Saw Ensign Bud Hayes a few times in Chicago and we had a bit of a Sorin reunion one night. He is in the Supply Corps over at Navy PSer and will eventually be sent to Harvard. By the way, Jerry Killigrew is now at Harvard. Left Midshipmen School to take the job. Said it's very tough up there. Bill O'Brien is in the Army Air Corps as a gunner out in Denver, Colo., or there­abouts." 
I also heard from Ensign Pete Moritz that he saw Julian Durfain in Boston on liberty from Harvard. We both saw Ensign Don Miller when we were there. He's in communications school, as is Durbin. 
Oren Stien also had news of some of the other men when w*e saw him. He said CpL Harry O'Mealia is at Fort Monmouth, N. J., in the Sig­nal Corps; while Pvt. Fred Dontel is in a camp in the East somewhere. Bill O'Neil is at Camp Benjamin Harrison and CpL Jim O'Donnell is in Kansas City. 
Moritz saw Ensign Jade Wiethoff on the train to New York and further orders. Jack said that Ensign BiU Ungeshick is on the West Coast in the Navy. Moritz is in the room now and says that Ed Camimngs is in Camp Swift, Texas. Also that JadE Wiggins and Veet Capello are in Ala­bama ; Pvt. Fred (the Beaver) Christman and Paul Malloy are in cavalry school at Fort Riley, Kans.; and Frank Herbert was married on April 
24. Pete's also heard from President Jade Tallett. who is now an air corps cadet at Duquesne in Pittsburgh. 
Ensigns Bill Dvorak, Gail Fitcii and Loais Kurtz are my roommates here and they all have accumulated a little news. Fitch says that Ensign Bob Sweeney graduated and is now en the West Coast; Jack Walsh is in the Army in St. Louis; and Leo (Bulldog) Raymond is in Camp Roberts in California. Therein lies a good story. As you read above, Blair McGowan w^rote that there were several fellows with him at the same camp. Then someone wrote Fitch and gave him some names, none of those above, and said that they were alone in Camp Roberts. Then about two weeks later, (Father Lynch take note) one of the men wrote that they had all finally met each other at church one Sunday. It's surprising how many Notre Dame men mest in church these days. That's where Pete Moritz and I met Oren Stien last week-end in New York. And at Dartmouth, I met the majority of the 37 Notre Dame men there whi!e either walking to or from the same place. 
BiU Dvorak says that he has kept In toudi with Bob Padesky who is working with Jack Dann at Naval Research in Washington. Dick Padeiky is with an accounting firm in New York and saw Ensign Vincc Jerry who is awaiting orders to go to secondary school in A-V(F). Jerry saw En­sign Bob Walsfa in New York, also awaiting 
orders. Dick also saw Lt. BUI ScnUy^ as did Pete and I. 
Scully said that Marine Lieutenants Joe Benlor, B«k MorrilU Walt Krawiec, Walt McNamara and Ed McKiM are with him at Quantico in the re­serve officers* class. Johnny Kovatdi is there also. Scully also says that Capt. Chndc Bcasley, *38. received the Purple Heart and the Silver Star for heroic action on Guadalcanal. He's Notre Dame's most famous Marine. Scully says. 
Fitch says that Lt. Ted Zitnik is in the 333rd bombing group. Army Air Base. Dalhart. Texas. He's second in command of a flying fortress. Kurtz reports that Fred Nesbit is now in the Army in North Africa, that George Hndi is work­ing for Adler Mfg. Co. in Louisville and that Jim AUen is in the Army. 
But the biggest news here concerns our two m::rried men. Both Louis Kurtz and Ed HoUsnd took the step on May 8, within our six-day leave between schools. Kurtz married the former Betty Laird of Des Moines. Their engagement was an­nounced at the Senior Ball. Ed married the for­mer Harriet Roy of Gillette, N. J. Mrs. Kurtz is living here near the campus. 
To get back to the letters. From BfP Pvt. Paul Tcland comes this: "I am training here at Ft. ttiley but hope to pull out soon. Vem McArdle, ex. '43, is a second lieutenant here with the cav­alry. Frank Keams, '43. is also an MP trainee here. WUUe Rice is a corporal in anti-aircraft but it is a secret where they keep blimps. Tom Maloney, via Cpl. Harry O'Mealia, is definitely on the mend again. His roommate. Leo Sdafani* is at Great Lakes. 
"Had a letter from Didc O'Brien who left in January, *42, for the seminary. He would certainly cppreciate hearing from his old buddies. Tliey can reach him at Major Seminary. St. Meinrad. Ind. 
"Pardon my hurried exit but here comes the first sergeant, so I had better drop the pen and grab a broom." 
A card from Carl Heiscr saying that he's sta­tioned at John Jay Hall, Columbia University, in the V-7 school. Ha'll get his commission June 16. 
I had a wonderful letter from Joe Hams, writ­ten one night while he was keeping the Army Air Corps office open down in Avon Park, Fla. His letter is much too long to include here, so I'll give you the gist of it. He saw Dick Smith and Jim White some time ago in Texas — also Tom Herlihy. He says Joe O'Brien is in New Cumber­land. Pa., in the Army. OCS is on the horizon for Joe again. He had missed it twice by being transferred. He still thinks of old N.D. and the fellows waiting at their dcors while he brought the mail around. 
Add: John Lanahan is in officers' class in the Marines. Pat Donovan is an ensign in Miami. Bob Hadoier is with the Navy's Bureau of Ships. Ray HcManns is a private in a medical training battalion at Camp Grant. Joe Weber is training at Oklahoma A. & M. Dan HoIwcU is with Don Mtflcr et al., at Harvard. Larry SnlUvan is at Quantico. Ensign Bfark Lies was graduated from Tower Hall and is in very secret advanced train­ing. Georcc Buttner and BiU Stewart are in the Army Air Forces Technical Training Command. Miami Beach. Rip Collins, was seen in New York and is stationed at F^irie State. Zcke Wood is with Panl Webar—also in A.A.F.T.T.C. 
Ed Holland tells me that Ensign Ed Fcrgoson, who left us after our sophomore year, is now sta­tioned with the Naval Air Corps in Bremerton Navy -Yard, Wash. He also says Bad Doyle is be­ing called up very soon to Camp Dix and that Hark PfaUer is an ensign somewhere in Vir­ginia. Ensign Bob Walsh who came right to 

The Motre DameAlumnua 
1111 
\i » 
• >' 

One of the largest Notre Dame groups in Nary training onywhere at one time wos tho on* crt Dorlmoiitli College in the ecndf months of 1943. Members of the group comprised the Notre Dame Club of HanoTor. N. H. Pictmed above are manr of the fiisl i 
of the club: graduates of December. 1942, predominate by a large margin. 
Princeton, instead of to Dartmouth first, will be one of the first of the graduating class to get to eea from what I hear. 
He's to be joined very soon by Ensign ChndE Kralovec. Fred Gore and Joe Callahan managed to sit still long enough this morning while I got the following from them: Jade Barry wns gradu­ated in May and is waiting for his V-T call, as are Bob Browning and Ollie Hunter. Callahan met Frank Conforti in Grand Central Station on the way to V-7. Johnny Kelly is in the Medical Corps in Texas, while Hank Priester is a second lieutenant in the Army Air Corps in San Fran­cisco. 
More letters! The first is from Frank Haley who says: "Just finished reading the April edi­tion of the 'Alumnus.' I have been in the Army since January, spending a month at Miami Beach, a month traveling on detached service, and two at this base. I am working as a general clerk in headquarters and, as you can guess by the heading. I'm part of the Air Corps. 
"So far in all my wanderings I haven't run into a sing!e N.D. man; thus, you know why I enjoy reading your column. I haven't noticed any men­tion of Doc Onofrio or Joe Calarco. Doc is in med school at St. Louis U., while Joe is working in a chemical plant in upper New York: married also. It seems. if the whole class is located at Dartmouth, N.D., Harvard, Chicago, and Camp Roberts. You fellows surely are lucky to be able to stick together. I'm just a lone wolf her% but getting a kick out of it." 
One of the craziest letters yet comes from Jack Edwards. He's as wacky and newsy as he always was. Here goes: "Dear Ed. (or Sir, Aviation Stu­dent Edwards. John R., requests permission to address the Ensign). Honestly, I hope I never run into one of you 'gold brickers' until I sprout by own gold bars and a pair of wings some 13 months from now because it would certainly kill me to have to throw a salute and say *sir* to any of that mouldy old crew I went to school with. Just Imagine working 16 months for a commission when I could have gotten one in four or less if I had joined the Navy, as all good N.D. men should. But seriously, though, I like it very much and it's been a lot of fun. Besides I'll learn how to fly. 
". . . Ray Heinzen received his copy of the 'Alumnus' today and I was so glad to read and find out what the fellows are doing that I de^ cided to sit down and write what I know. Ibe only times I've gotten homesick here are when I've started to think about Notre Dame, the good times we all had there, and most of all, the fel­lows who were my friends there. It certainly does me good to hear about them. 
"On Feb. 25 I reported to Fort Hayes with such honored classmates as Jim Walsh, Ray Heinzen, Dip Evans, Tom Henney and BiU Eariey. Also there were about 40 underclassmen whom you don't know. We were all sent to Keesler Field, Miss., for basic training which lasted for five weeks. While there I ran into my former room­mate, BiU Keenan, who is a member of the per­manent party stationed there. After putting in our allotted time in that Alcatraz of the Air Corps we were duly slipped out to this college training detachment. Heinzen, Earley, Henney, and myself came here to Marysville College, Marysville, Tenn. while Evans and Walsh went to Johnson City. Tenn. It's much better here than it was at Keesler and our meals are even served to us by co-eds. We will be classified at Cadets when we finish this phase." I only wish I could copy the rest of it. Jack, but you understand. Thanks a lot, old man, but you need to be cor­rected on one thing. No N.D. man will ever have to salute me if I have anything to say about it. 
Kurtz just returned from the Brooklyn Navy Yard Trip, which we all make, and he reports seeing Larry Kclb*. *42. riding around there with his legs hanging out of a jeep. By the way, I went the other day rnd managed to get on a battle wagon. Believe it or not. there were four Notre Dame men serving as oflicers on it but I didn't have time to get any of their names. There was a band concert going on. though, and I asked the chief to play the "Victory March," which he did. It sounded wonderful since it was the first time in three months I had heard it. 
The last of the letters is Ed Hickey'a. From Ed: "Hello-hello. The end is at last in sight. I've i:pplicd for PT duty and am on bended knee in hopes I get it. 
"Some local news: 'Beaver* Neagl: is doing well as usual. Kirby is getting along O^. and Dad Smith is doing the same. Bad FitzpatridE is sailing on a smooth sea. Bill Brady is in Hchi­gzin City in radio school, so we have had some real reunions. He looks like a million dollars. 
Best of hiek and year. cohimn ta really a boost 
when morale sinks occaaonally." 
According to the- plan, the btrtbdaya for the next two months are: Jnne 2, BiU CesMla; C, Jahm BeriilaM. OIHe Hnter ; 8, Dtek UmixmAt 10,.Fraak KimtCi 11. Mike Godfrey. Art Kirty. Bin HtMscI; 14, Dave Daly; 17. Jim Facaa; 18, Frank Mastrata. Jalm Ecdmaad; 22, Jaka Dm-Uvy; 25. Jafai Dacgaa; 26. Jack WiniML 
July 2, Dick GaBiw; 3, TiM« Jcny; 4, 1W~ Baike, Dad Sadtk; 5. Jaka Wiithaff; 8, Jafai Sckcicr; 10, Dick KUmtr; 11, Tarn Hiler; IS. Bak Carrer, Fraidc Fitxpatii^ Taiqr Mihaiy. Hawic Mailair: 14. Jaliaa Daikia; 15, Jaka WaU; 16^ Jim Galagkcr. Ed Kaacy; 17. Tam Caaaeys 19. Daa Stcwcrt. Viacc Slatt; 20, Bifl Brady. HaA Lies; 21, Ed Dare; 22. Bak Ovcr­meyer; 25, Ckack KiaWrcc. 
For the benefit of those men just ioininar oar parade the idea is this: Toa see the birthday of a pal of yoors in the cohumi, write him a post­card or short note saying, "hellow" etc., and tdl­ing what yoa're doing and whom you've seen. Then he dn^s me a line telling me about himsdf and everything he's beard from the rest of the men. This way the burden of writing doesn't fall on anyone too often; althong^ I'd like to hear from all of yon every month. How about 'waking a special effort to locate those many men whose names haven't appeared in these first three edi­tions. 
If all goes well, we'll beat '^Scaap" Scaalaa's record yet. By the way. we came reasonably cloaa last issue, if you take out all the men from the classes of '22 to *46 that he included. Bat be and that *42 class really collect the news and scoop us on a few from'our gang. Credit is doe them, bat we can show them if everyone takes hold like the men whose letters vpeared here. Tlianks a lot, all of yoa, for writing; let's hear from you again, and the BEST OF LUCK. 
Never take tkat acws ta ked; Sit dawn flist aad wri:e ta—ED 

It's Set. Sakcrt W. Tawaer. 15100876. Hq. Gx, AFO 472, Ft. Bragg, N. C. Bob. the South Bend boy who worked on the "South Bend Tnb" while he was goinig to Notre Dame for a coople of years, is editing the lOIst divisision newspaper, working in the intelUgenee office and serving as an orientation instructor. He was recently hoaie on furloai^. 
The United States Navy at Notre Dame 
The Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps unit at Notre Dame was inspected in April, on the Held east of the stadium, by Father Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. In the foreground of the picture left to right, are Lt. Comdr. William S. Howell, U.SJI., executive officer of the N.R.O.T.C.; Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.. vice-president; Captain H. P. Burnett, U.S.N., commandant cf all naval forces on the campus; and Father O'Donnell. 
The WAVES, shown here at one of their first Saturday morning inspections by Copt. H. P. Burnett, U.SJ4., are the newest Navy group on the campus. They work in the local Navy offices, drive Navy cars and in other ways take over the places of Navy men. They reside in South Bend. The group is made up of both commissioned and non-commissioned personnel. 
^^^^^<$^^^^«^^^<$>^^<^^^^^<^^^^^^^^^^^«^^^< >^^^^^^^^^^^ 





