The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

A. E. C. Renews
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS James E. Armstrong, '25, Editor 
Support to ND 
. John N. Cackley, Jr., '37, Associate Editor The U. S. Atomic Energy Commis­
sion has awarded a $165,880 contract This magazine is published bi-monthly to Notre Dame in renewing its sup­by the University of Notre Dame, No­port of the University's Radiation. Pro­tre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class ject for the coming school-year, accord­matter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Postoffice, ing to an announcement by the Rev. Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., Dean of the Aug. 24, 1912. Graduate School. Dr. Milton Burton 
is director of the non-secret research project which was established ·at Notre Dame in 1947.
Galvin Duclson, '15 
"In the early days of radiation Dies in l\Jen•t•ltis chemistry research scientists were more concerned with the destructive aspects 
Galvin Hudson, '15, a member of of radioactivity," Dr. Burton explain­the-Alumni Association Board of Dir-ed. "Now the emphasis is on the bene­ectors and Governor of Tennessee for ficial application of radioactivity and the Notre Dame Foundation, died un-of high-energy radiation," he said. expectedly of a heart attack at his A new radiation source to house home in Memphis, Ten!!:• on August radioactive cobalt is now under con­
20. For the past 28 years he had been struction at the University and will be president of Hudson and Dugger Co., used. for experiments this Fan; Burton a lumber firm which manufactures disclosed. "Until now, radiation chemi­barrcl heads. He was active in Re-. cal research has been a rich man's publican Party politics and was a close science," Burton said, "but with Notre friend of ·former President Herbert ' Dame's development of this new Hoover and the late Senator Robert source, which is relatively-simple, many 
·-.--.-A:--T-afr.--· --·· --~-----~smaiie.rinstitutiomnviii-be-able-to-en-· From 1940 until his death Mr. Hud-gage in radiation chemical research." son was chairman of the Republican The Notre Dame Radiation Project National Finance Committee for the ·has dra,vn scientists from ali over the 19th Congressional District in Ten-world, Burton indicated. "Japan, nessee. He \Vas a past president of the India, Canada, Ceylon, Brazil, England Notre Dame Alumni Club in Meni-and Israel are among the countries phis. Mr. Hudson was also extremely which have been represented on our active in civic affairs having been a staff," he said. director of the Memphis Open Air Encouraging results obtained in the Theatre and the Memphis Symphony ' radiation chemistry of mixtures may · Orchestra Society. -prove important in industrial fields, Burton indicated. Recent Notre Dame Mr. Hudson research on the chemistry of electric discharges may stimulate such produc­tion of acetylene from methane, the principal constituent of natural gas, and of hydrazine from, ammo!lia. Hydrazine is presently the most attrac­tive rocket fuel, Burton obs~rved. · 
DATES TO REMEMBER IN 1953-54 Universal Communion Sunday, Dec. 6, 1953 
Univerial Notr~ Dame Night, April 26, 1954. Commencement, June 6, 1954 Class Reunions, · · June 11-12-13, 1954 



New Alumni Clubs 
Eight new Notre Dame alumni clubs have been organized in the past few months, bringing the total of club organizations to 135 in the United States and foreign countries. The groups include: Carolina (involving alumni in North Carolina), Kansas, Wichita, New Mexico, Tidewater (the Norfolk-Newport News area), South­ern Colorado (headquartered at Colo­rado Springs), _Kalamazoo and Little Rock. · 
There are 23,000 alumni in the na­tional association with the large major­ity residing in Club areas. Local clubs have been activated in eight foreign countries. 
Five Vets Among Ot•clainecl CSC's 
Ten young men were ordained as . priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross the past Summer in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus by the Most Rev. John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind. An eleventh ·seminarian will be ordained to serve in his native Archdiocese of Dacca, Bengal, East Pakistan. 
Those ordained include: Rev. Thomas W. Zimmerman, C.S.C., Rev. James L. Shilts, C.S.C.,-Rev. Ronald 
A. Zeii, C.S.C., Rev. Joseph P. Voelker, C.S.C., Rev. George G. Kahle, C.S.C. · Rev. Eugene A. Burke, C.S.C., Rev. 
T. Daniel Kennerk, C.S.C., Rev. Charles F. Weiher, C.S.C., Rev. Ed­ward A.. Buenger, C.S.C., Rev. R. Francis Theriault,' C.S.C., and Rev. Michael A. D'Rozario. 
Five of the new Holy Cross· priests are veterans of World War II. Father Buenger was. an infantry captain whose outfit took part in the "Battle of the Bulge." Father Kennerk was an infantryman in France and Ger­,many foii~wing the Normandy inva­sion. Father Doherty was a Marine pilot . in several Pacific campaigns against the Japanese. Fathers Wei­her ·and Burke served in the Army and Navy respectively. 
Father· Shilts is the son of Prqfessor Walter J. Shilts, '22, head of the De­partment of Civil Engineering at N.D. 
Fathers Zimmerman, Burke, Ken­nerk, and D'Rozario have volunteered for service in the Holy. Cross missions i11 . East Pakistan. The other priests . will be assigned at" Notre Daine or other institutions and parishes oper­ated by the Holy Cross Fathers. 
The Notre Dame· Alumnus 

Movies Will TV Irish ·cridders 
Six of Notre Dame's football games this Fall will be ·televised, live, from the scene of play on giant size theatre screens in many .cities of the country, it was announced by Box Office Tele­vision, Inc.,' who .will carry the games . 
. The University has arranged for these games to be theatre-televised as a service to alumni and friends who are either unable to obtain tickets to sold out games, or who cannot travel to the site of the Irish games. 
Many alumni clubs in the ctttes where the games will be shown have made arrangements for blocks of scats to be set aside for their use and are making a club activity of the program. 
The schedule to be carried follows: 
Oct. 17-ND vs Pittsburgh Oct. 24-ND vs Georgia Tech Oct. 31 -ND vs Navy Nov. 7 -ND vs Pennsylvania Nov. 21-ND vs Iowa Nov. 28-ND vs So. California 
!-----~---------'-·-.c·-· 
ND Receives Grants 
• The U. S. Public Health Service has awarded. two grants to support pnccr research at the University of Notre Dame, it: ~vas announced recently by the Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School. Through the National Advisory Cancer Council of the_ National Institutes of Health, the Public Health Service has cstab~ lishcd a new research _project in Notre Dame's department of biology and renewed for the seventh year its spon­sorship of cancer-related research in the department of chemistry. 
Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell, professor of chemistrv, will continue the cancer . rese~rch h~ has conducted at Notre Dame since 1947 under the renewed grant. Aided by four graduate assis­tants, Dr. Campbell devised' numerous 
~chemicals in the past six years which were used in experiments with animal cancers. "The research is carried on with a view toward possible treatment of cancer in human beings," . Dr. Campbell stated, "but there is a long slow process which must be followed." 
President Eisenhower and Clarence "Pat" l\lanion. 

IKE APPOINTS MA.NION ~·~.,AS CO-MMISSION ·HEAD 
President Eisenhower has named Clarenc!! E. "Pat" Manion, former dean of the University of Notre Dame's Law School, chairman of a new commission to study federal-state prob­lems in such overlapping fields as taxation and road construction. 
Announcement of Manion's appoint­ment was made at the summer White 
...... ......,... ....... .. ... ... ..,.,..,. ............ 
~ivil W at• Diplotna Given Nott•e Dame 
The story· of how the first platoons of "Fighting Irish" left Notre Dame to fight in the Civil War was recalled here recently with the presentation to the University of a diploma which it conferred on a veteran of the Union army eighty-seven years ago. The dip­·loma was awarded on June 27, 1866, to J. A. Spillard of Elgin, Illinois, one of six brothers who attended Notre Darrie. It has been presented to the University by his son, William J: Spil­
lard, Chicago insurance executive. 
House after ·Manion had conferred 
with Eisenhower. 
Manion said ·the new commission 
will look into relationships between the , states and local governments in every field where they come in contact, particularly where there is an over­. lapping of functions. He specifically mentioned the fields of ta:\:ation, school luncheons and road construction. · 
The faded parchment lettered 
"Master of Accounts" was awarded by 
the Commercial Department of the 
University, the forerunner of the 
present College of Commerce. It cited 
Spillard for proficiency in such courses 
as book-keeping, .commercial law and 
business penmanship. It certified that 
the r~cipient was competent to "con­
duct on scientific principles books com­
prising wholesale or retail entries" or 
those of companies engaged in "steam­
boating or railroading." The red seal of 
the University and the signature of a 
Professor A. Horby make the do_cument 
official. 
October. 1953 



