The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
COMMENT 
We may as well become personal in this first column of the year. • 
Greetings, of course. Hope you hail an undepressed summer and no droujrht or prostration. 
Personally, the Office has never had a busier summer. But such is our pleasure at this evidence of alumni activity that we canie dangerously close to enjoyinfr it. 
• <• ­

One tliintr may as well be straifrht­ened out here, while the year is younp:. 
In a bit of heated correspondence over that perennial di.slurber of the peace, football tickets, an alumnus accu.-^ed the Office of being the alibi arti.-it for the .Athletic .A..sscciation, rather than the friend at court of the absentee graduates. 
- •> ­While relatively unimportant as an individual expression, the charge was distinctly unfair and, as a preventive, listen to this: 
The -Athletic .Association doesn't need alibis. They have tried, and, in­sofar as co-operation permitted, have .succeedetl, in instituting a business method of ticket distribution that serves the best interest of all con­cerned. Exceptions to the.se rules oc­cur. But they occur where the good of the University is involved. .Alumni shoulil be the first to concur with such action. 
- •> ­

In the second place, the intere.sts of an individual alumnus frequently do not coincide with the interests of the .A.ssociation. .Any e.\tra seats at a game, for e.xample, given to one alunuius, means that every alunuius on the windward side of him is shoved undeservedly just that man\ seats farther down the field. 
- •— .And it probably isn't amiss here to repeat what should not require state­ment, much less repetition. -• ­The -Alumni .A.s.sociation does not e.xist to secure good football tickets for alumni. Preference is a courtesy secured by the .Association through 
IN  TlilS  IXXUE  
Notre  Dani£,  19.30  Fiotitixjiiece  
Law Building and Stadium  Completed  3  

Frederick P. Kenkel Receives I.aetare Jledal 6 The Catholic College In Business Education, 
by Rev. Thomas Lahsy, C.S.C, Ml 7 E.iitorial 11 Athletics, by Jo.seph Petritz, '32 12 President Frank Hering's Greetings 1-5 Alumni Clubs 19 The Alumni 24 
Thf nia;.':iziiif is |>iil)lisht'<] nnmhl.v ihirin:.' Ilif scholastic year liy the Alumni .\ssi>ciatii>ri <ir thi.' University iil" Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. The suliserijiliori priee is ?2.l)0 a year: the price of sinirle copies is 'ITt cents. The annual alumni dues of .*.',.()0 include a year's subscription to THE .ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter .lanuary 1. I:i2:!. at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, und-.r the .Act of March ::. ISHT. All correspondence should he address-d to The Notre Dame .Alumnus, Box SI. Notre Dame. Iniliana. 
JIEMBER OF THE AMERICAN .\LUMNI COUNCIL 
JIE.MKER OF THE N'.ATIO.VAL CATHOLIC ALU.MNI FEDERATIO.V 
THE NOTRE DAME AL U M N U S 
JAMES E. .ARMSTRONG, '2.5, Editor 
HARLEY JICDEVITT, '29, .Advertising JIgr. 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
-Alumni Headquarters, JIain Floor .Admini.-;tration Bklg.. Notre Dame. Indiana 
.JAMES E . .AR.M.STRO.VG. (imieml Sccretarti 
ALUMXI DOARl) 
REV. JOHN C.AVANAUGII, C.S.C, '90 Honorary President FRANK E. HERING. '98 President HON. WILLIAM J. GRANFIELD, '13 Vice-President JAMES E . .ARMSTRG.NG. '25 Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 Treasurer GEORGE M . MAYPOLE. '03 Director 
M. HARRY MILLER. '10 Director 
T. PAUL MCGANNON. '07 Director 
PETER P. MCELLIGOTT. '02 Director JOH N W . EGGE.MAN, 'CO (<'.•• officio) Director 
the cooperation of the -Athletic -A.sso-ni e.xists wherever a college educa­ciation for the benefit of those who 
tion has been obtained under the show a material interest in Notre present system of education, a sys­
Dame and the greater work that the tem in which the great benefits of .Association is attempting to do. education are ofl'ered to students far below the actual cost. It is the sys­
—:— 

tem of democracy. 
Intellectual and spiritual relations between Notre Dame and Notre Dame men are the real fields for alumni ac­Suppose you are on the fifty-yard 
line this Fall. Suppose you are back tivity. These include every possible ef­of the goal post. Suppose you don't fort on the part of alumni to pre­see the game at all. Does that have serve and promote at Notre Dame any serious effect on your college spiritual and intellectual advantages education ?
for succeeding generations of stu­dents. This obligation of the devel­—*>-— opment of their alma mater by alum­Happy landings! 
?.'T­IS 

11 
L^anA, 
L04n.: 
'RE OAMF 
84067 


TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Q^r(a^ Z 

Volume IX. ^ SEPTEMBER, 1930 No. 1 


^ Law Building and Stadium Completed 
1930 Program Adds Million Dollars to Physical Campu:—Consequent Changes 
of Interest; Many Shifts in Facidty; Prominent 
PROF. THOMAS FRANK KOXOP 
The Dealt 

B
LIND JUSTICE is missing a great deal thiough her inability to see the magnificent new home of her advocates on the Notre Dame campus. The new Law Buihiing, completed during the sum­mer, is, with the Stadium, another great step in the realization of the Notre Dame that has been pictured to alumni in recent years. The ac­companying illu.strations explain much of the location and the beauty and the impressiveness of the new structures. 
The Law Building is the work of Maginnis and Walsh, outstanding architects, and is considered to be one of the most beautiful and complete building.s of its kind in the education­al world. 
Notre Dame's College of Law is the outgrowth of a course in law estab­lished at the University in 1SG9, and is historically the oldest of Catholic law schools in the United States. En-i-oUment in the College—established in lOOo in conjunction with the re­organization of the University at that time—now numbers over two hun­dred. The College is a member of the Association of .-^meiican Law Schools and has an "Approved" rating from the Council on Legal Education of the American Bar Association. 
It is the aim of the College to give its students a thorough and pi-actical preparation for the pi'actice of law in any state. The case method of in­.•itruction is use(L 
William James Hoynes, A. JL, 
LL. D., professor and dean of the de­partment and, later, the College of Law from 1SS3 to 1018, remains at Notre Dame, professor and dean emer­itus. Thomas Frank Konop, a grad­uate of the University of Nebraska law school and a former member of Congress, 1911-17, from Wisconsin, is dean of the College and professor of law. An able faculty, including many prominent jurists and practicing at­torneys, assists in the work of the College. 
The new Law School Building at Notre Dame, as to its position and architectural character, represents the initiation of a most important change in the physical organism of the Uni­versity. The President, Rev. Charles O'Donnell, C.S.C, is persuaded that future building at Notre Dame should be controlled by a most thoughtful re­gard for the interests of architectui-al unity and harmony. The Law Build­ing definitely strikes a note of col­legiate Gothic which is to be consist­ently associated with the futui"e build­ing program. The character of the new building is decidedly picturesque. The principle is that the architectuial interest of the individual unit shall e.\tcnd to its neighboi-, making for ac­cumulative artistic result which coulil not be contrived were the unit to be treated symmetrically. The law tower which gives such emphasis to the southwest angle of the Law School has its own significance, in view of the salient position which it occupies in the new grouping. 
The plan of the building is roughly in the form of the letter "H". The main entrance on the west or princi­pal front is e.xpressed in terms of a 
Teachers Added. 
HON. WILLIAJI J. HOY.VES 
The Colonel 

rich open portico with pointed arches framed in stone, the corner pier pro­viding for a niched space in which a salient piece of sculpture is to be in­stalled. Entering, through an' inner vestibule, the long longitudinal cor­ridor, one finds two capacious class­rooms looking to the east between the pavilions. One of these is .56 feet long by 27'^ feet,—the other 40 feet by 27'/i feet. Class-rooms of corres­ponding proportions occupy the south pavilion separated by the large stair­case whose landings project into a prominent bay window. Four semi­nars' rooms occupy the western side. In the north pavilion to the east is the court room with judge's office ad­joining. Separated from these by a formal staircase, finished in stone, is the lawyer's office. On the second story the main body of the plan is de­voted to the great reading room which is 98 feet long by 51 feet wide. This room has been given much archi­tectural distinction. Two lines of stone columns qualify the great width of the apartment and give variety to the room. These support arches which carry a vaulted ceiling ribbed witli oak and paneled with Celotex. This reading room is approaching from the great staircase through three large doorways. On the north side is sit­uated the stack room and the office of the librarian ^^^th adjoining work room and toilet. The Dean's office and the office of the secretary are sit­uated on the west of this wing with similar accommodations. A small pri­vate staircase leads from the Dean's quarters to a mezzanine story above. A similar space is made available for future use in the wing to the south. The design of the interior throughout the important portions of the building is articulated with stone, which, with the fireproof nature of the construc­tion, gives an effect of rare structural integrity. The appointments of the building throughout are the result of careful study of the best precedents. 
The King Has a Palace 
With the completion of the mag­nificent new Notie Dame Stadium, Knute Rockne's teams, the royalty of football, now are housed in a manner to which public opinion has forced them to become accustomed. 
The new Stadium is constructed immediately south of the old football stands and east of Eddy Street. Its total over all length is about 670 feet; its total over all width is about 480 feet; and the distance around the out­side wall is slightly less than 2000 feet. Its principal entrance is on the west side facing Eddy Street, and this entrance sets back from the center line of Eddy Street about 200 feet. The playing field is depressed 10 feet below the finished grade of the ex­terior. 
The structure is designed strictly for football. Its shape is, therefore, rectangular with cur%'ed sections in the four corners, thus drawing all of the seats close to the arena of play. The front rows of seats at both the sides and the ends of the structure are only about 30 feet from the side lines and back lines respectively of the gridiron. There are sixty rows of seats set at such angles of slope as to provide equally clear vision of all parts of the field from every seat. Two hundred forty-four (244) boxes, each seating six; are provided in the front of the side line sections. 
There is provided a total seating capacity for fifty-four thousand four hundred people, exclusively of the player^;' and of the press reporters' seats. The seats are reached through thirty-six portals equally distributed about the stand and about one-third of the distance from the front to rear. The aisle is provided at each portal, thus giving the most direct access to all seats. 
The structural portion of the build­ing, comprising the seat banks and their supports, is of reinforced con­crete. The exterior is enclosed by a brick wall with stone trim, through which open embrasures in the upper portions give direct light and air to all passageways under the stand. In this wall, there are twenty-three large doors, serving for entrance and exit to and from a concourse or pas­sageway extending entirely around under the structure. This concourse is over one-quarter mile long and cindered to be available as a practice track. Under the stand and accessi­ble from this concourse are ample toilet facilities for both men and women, so distributed about the cir­cuit of the stand as to give maximum facilities. Under the northerly por­tion of the structure are provided dressing rooms for the teams with private entrances to the same, includ­ing showers, toilets, trainers' rooms, equipment storage, and all the needed facilities for both the home and visit­ing teams. Access to the fisld from 
these team rooms is by private stair­ways to the depressed processional entrance. Other facilities provided for under the stand include necessary offices, storage rooms, concession stands, a first aid hospital room and provisions for the future installation of at least twelve standai'd size hand­ball courts and twelve standard squash courts. All of these rooms under the stand are provided with ckctric light and gas heating appli­ances. 
Direct access to the field for the purpose of processionals or pagsants, and also to provide' such access for trucks and other equipment necessary for the maintenance of the field, itself, is provided by a depressed ramp descending from the exterior grade at the north end into and under the stand and the concourse and thus out upon the field. This entrance will at all ordinary times be closed by orna­mental iron gates. 
Facilities for the press are provided by a stand elevated above the seat banks on the westerly side and ap­proached from the ground through a private press entrance and a separate stairway. This stand accommodates two hundred and sixty-two reporters with convenient desks fitted with telegraph jack connections, so ar­ranged through a switchboard as to make possible direct wire connections to any part of the United States. The press stand is further provided with a private toilet for the press, all necessary telephone connections, and with three separate radio broadcast­ing booths, each of which is so wired as to provide microphone connections to both the home and visiting band sections in the stand, as well as the reporting microphone in the booth itself. The sides and front of the press stand are enclosed in glass with counterbalanced sash, giving maximum opening for good weather. 
Above the seat banks at both the 

A VIEW OF THE NEW I^AW BUILDING AND THE MAIN CAMPUS 
It Occupies the Site of the Catalog's Faynoits Street Car Station 
north and south ends of the stand, scoreboards are built into the struc­tures, so that they may bs operated from enclosed spaces behind the same under telephone instructions from the side lines on the iield. These boards give duplicate data as to score, downs, penalties, yards to go, minutes to play, etc., as is customary on such boards. 
The design of the structure, to­gether with arrangement of seating and facilities, has been prepared by the Osborn Engineering Company of Cleveland, Ohio, which has, during the past twenty years, designed and supervised the construction of over forty such structures. The contract was executed by Ralph SoUitt & Sons Construction Company of Chicago and South Bend. 
The Stadium has been laid out on thj property in such a way that it is possible to add additional rows to the lower deck, increasing the capacity at least 30,000, and to put on an upper deck giving a further increase of 50,000, or making the ultimate capacity at least 130,000. 
RENOVATIONS 

Though not new in external struc­ture, a number of substantial changes have been brought about through re­modeling. 
-Architecture has relieved its de­votees of varicose veins by moving from the fourth floor of the Main Building to the old Law Building, where the increasingly popular work of that department can be pursued to advantage. 
The department of speech, which doesn't care particularly what hap­pens to the legs of its pupils so long as their tonsils remain intact, will take over the i-enovated department of architecture for the expanding and excellent work of that group. The former architectural rooms are being re-made into a large rehearsal room and four smaller classrooms. 
In the old Carroll refectory, on the ground floor of the Main Building, the art of re-modeling has carved out five additional and much needed class­rooms. The General Offices, for the past year and a half, have occupied the old Brownson refectory in the East wing of the ground floor. In both instances the old cathedral paint­ings by the Messrs. Ackerman have been preserved, being retouched and restored by the present Prof. Francis 
X. Ackerman. These paintings rep­resent the famous' cathedrals of the world and were very interesting panels in the walls of both of the old refectories, lasting through what would have been trying conditions for the original structures. The pro­gressive department of physical c;duca­tion will move from the former quar­ters in the agricultural building to these new rooms for its theory. 
PERSONNEL 

Various circumstances, as else­where, contributed to changes in the teaching personnel for the current year. -A survey of replacements would seem to indicate, however, that the University has been enabled, to pursue its program of academic prog­ress very successfully despite the losses. 
The following members of the faculty will not return to the Uni­versity: Antonio Provost, professor of French, who taught at Notre Dame from 1924; William F. Shors, assist­ant professor of accounting, who be­gan teaching at Notre Dame in 1928; James F. Kirby, assistant professor of law, at Notre Dame since 1927; Felix K. Boyle, assistant professor of English, at Notre Dame since 1925; Joseph 0. Plante, professor of French, at Notre Dame since 1914; John H. Clouse, instructor in mechan­ical engineering, at Notre Dame since 1929. 
Pursuing its program of gi-aduate study for as many members of the 
Community as circumstances permit, the following priests will not be at .Notre Dame next year: Kev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., '20, who will go to Oxford University, England; Esv William McNamara, C.S.C, 17, nho will do graduate work at Catholic University,' and Eev. Patrick Bag­gerty, C.S.C, -A.B. '16, M..4. '21, nho will attend Columbia University, 
New York City. 
Transfer by the Congregation has also removed Eev. John Margraf, C.S.C., '15, to Columbia U. in Port­land, Oregon, and Rev. Frank O'Hara, C.S.C., '22, to St. Edward's U. in Texas. 
To balance this loss from the Com­munity, the following members have returned: Rev. James McDonald, C.S.C, '19, who received his research degree from Oxford University, Eng­land, in June, in the field of English: Rev. James Stack, C.S.C, '13, who was at Harvard University last ysar; Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C, '23, who will leave the Ave Maria staff to teach Philosophy; Eev. Leo J. Heiser, C.S.C, '02, who returns from Texas to join the Science faculty. Eev. John Farley, C.S.C, returns from Portland, Oregon. 
In the new laymen on the faculty is e^ident the determination of the University, despite a heavy building program, to secure the best available teaching talent for the students. 
RIORDAN IS REGISTRAR 

Prof. Bobert Riordan, '24, whose appointment as Registrar is the first to be given a layman, will continue to teach a class in addition to the duties of his new office. He was appointed to succeed the Eev. William 
F. Molony, C.S.C, '07, who returns to the faculty of the College of Science. The appointment was announced at the annual meeting of the Congrega­tion during the summer. Prof. Eior­dan is a war veteran, coming to Notre Dame after completing service to 
• •..?::• .;;'i-3s^wI«v-^-v?':^55?^«!tftgSi^ • 
•••• • •:^=-rr^5%*?^'5#sSSlS^%n"-i>i«^ rs-vWfeS^ia 
As THE STADIUM NEAKED CosiPLBnoN 
The First Inside Information 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS September, 1930 
Frederick P. Kenkel Receives Laetare Medal
enter the Class of 1924. He was active in the campus veterans' or­ganizations and in the art work of the campus publications. He was graduated in journalism. He is mar­ried and has three children. 
John T. Frederick, editor of the Midland Magazine, one of the leading mid-West literary organs, becomes a member of the faculty with this academic year. Prof. Frederick has long been a popular lecturer in his infrequent Wsits to the campus. His ability has been contributed to a num­ber of literarj' efforts on the campus, such as judging of various manu­scripts, etc., and his acquisition as a member of the faculty is a seven-league stride in the academic develop­ment of the Greater Notre Dame. 
Judge William Cain, like Dean Thomas Konop, is a gi-aduate of the 
U. of Nebraska law school. Although a native of Ontario, he remained in Nebraska following his education there and engaged in the practice of law. He joins the College of Law with varied experience as city and county attorney and two years on the Supreme Court bench of Nebraska behind him. 
William D. BoUison, the other new member of the Law faculty, is a na­tive of Indiana. He was educated at the U. of Indiana, LL.B. '21, A.B. '25. He also received a Master of Laws degree from Harvard U. in 1930. He Vi-as in service during the World War. From 1922 to the present year Mr. Kollison was a member of the Law faculty of the University of Alabama. He was for several years the author of the Alabama Law Journal. He is a member of the Monroe Co. (Ind.), the Indiana, the .A.labama, and the American Bar Associations. 
Additions to the Arts and Letters faculty beside Mr. Frederick are Paul Bartholomew, '29, who was a part time instructor last year; Louis Buck­ley, '28, who received his M.A. in June this year, and who was also a part time instructor last year; Rev. Con­rad Hoffman, a secular priest, who will teach French; Earl F. Langwell, who comes to the language depart­ment from St. George's High School, Chicago, and Raymond Pence, who will join the English department. 
Stephen Bocskei, B.S. '29, who re­ceived his JLS. with honors at the close of the 1930 summer session, be­comes a full-time instructor in the College of Science. Clarence J. Klein, C.E. '21, former baseball lum­inary at N.D., '14-'17, captain in 1916­17, who has been teaching in Utah, will join the faculty of the College of Engineering. Karl R. Weigand, Bar­berton, 0., who received his B.S. in 
E.E. in June, will return as an in­structor in the College of Engineer­ing. 
The Laetare Medal, w^hich was awarded to Frederick P. Kenkel, St. Louis, Mo., on Laetare Sunday, was officially presented to him at the dia­mond jubilee convention of the Cath­olic Central Verein, held in Baltimore, Maryland, August 17, 18, 19 and 20. Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C, Dean of the College of Science of the University, presented the 
FREDERICK P. KENKEL 
Laetare Medallist 
Medal on behalf of the University at ceremonies in the Lyric Theater, Bal­timore, on .August 17. 
Mr. Kenkel's work in the interests of the religious, social and patriotic interests of the Verein have made him internationally famous. Mr. Ken­kel is the third St. Louisan to receive the Medal. In 1887 Mr. Edward Preuss was awarded the Medal, but because of a vow he had taken, he never accepted it. In 1904 the late Richard C. Kerens, at one time am­bassador to -Austria, was awarded the Medal. Mr. Kenkel himself w'as made a Knight of St. Gregory in 1912 by Pope Pius X for his services to the Catholic press. Father Wenninger's presentation follows: 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME TO FREDERICK PHILIP KENKEL, GREETING: 
In the year of Our Lord eighteen hundred and eighty-three the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross, founder and first president of the University of Notre Dame, established the Lae­tare Medal as an award made annu­ally to some -American lay Catholic who in his particular field of endeavor had achieved such distinction as re­flects glory upon the Catholic Faith. The list of men and women so hon­ored in these past forty-seven years amply illustrates the inspiration which that Faith has brought into all de­partments of thought and of human life,—into philosophy and literature, the arts and the sciences, into the learned professions and into public service, whether in time of peace or in time of war. The honor-roll is as follows: 
ISS:'. .John Gilmarj' Shea—Historian, 18S4 Patriclc J. Keelcy—Arciiitcct. 1883 Eliia Allen Starr—Art Critic. I8S6 General John Newton—Engineer. 1SS7 Edward Preuss—Publicist. 18S8 Patrick V. Hickey—Editor. Founder o( 
the Catliotic Rcvivir. 
ISSi* .Anna Hanson Dorsey—Novcl'st. 1890 William J. Onahan—Orsanizer of the 
First American Catholic Consress. 1891 Daniel Doupherty—Orator. 1892 Heni*y F. Brownson—PhilosDpher and 
Author. 1893 Patrick Danohue—Founder of the Bos­ton Pilot. 
1894 Augustine Daly—Dramatic Protlucer. 189^ Mrs. James Sadlier—Novelist. 1896 General 'William S. Rosencrans—Soldier. 1897 Thomas Addis Emmet—Physictan. 1S9S Timothy E. Howard-Jurist. 1899 Mary Gwendolin Caldwell—Philanthro­
pist. 1900 John A. Creishton—Philanthropist. 1901 William Bourke Cochran—Orator. 1902 John B. Murphy Surceon. 
190:1 Charles J. Bonaparte—Lawyer. 1901 Richard Kearns—Diplomat. 1905 Thomas B. Fitzpatrick—Philanthropist. 1906 Francis Qu!nlan-:—Physician. 1907 Katharine E. Conway—Journalist and 
Author. 1908 James C. MonaKhan—Economist. 1909 Mrs. Frances Tieman (Christian Reid) 
—Novelist. 1910 Maurice Francis Er.ran — Author and 
Diplomat. 1911 Ajmes Repplier—Author. 1912 Thomas M. Mulry—Philanthropist. 1913 Charles B. Hcrbcrman—Editor-in-chief 
Catholic Enojclojtcd'a. 
1914 Edward Doujilas- White — JuKst. Chief 
Justice of the U. S. Supreme Court. 1915 Marj- V. Merrick—Philanthropist. 1916 James J. Walsh—Physician and Author. 1917 William Shepherd Benson—Admiral and 
Chief of Naval Operations. 1918 Joseph Scott—Lawyer. 1919 Goorffe Duval—Philanthropist. 1920 Lawrence F. Flick—Physician. 1921 Elizabeth Noursc—Artist. 1922 Charles P. Neill—Economist. 1923 Walter Georse Smith—Lawyer. 1924 Charles D. Masinnis—Architect. 1925 Albert Francis Zahm—Scientist. 1926 Edward N. Hurley—Business Man. 1927 Marcaret AncHn—Actress. 1928 Jack J. Spaldins—Lawj-cr. 1929 Alfre<l E. Smith—Statesman. 
Sir, this year the University of Notre Dame admits you to the histor­
(Continued on Pajre 10) 


The Catholic College In Business Education 
By Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C. S. C, Litt. B. '11, Ph. D. 
(Ed. Note: Because of Notre Dame's leadership in the development of a Catholic College of Commerce, because of the timeliness of the influences in business discussed by Father Laheij, and, of course, because of the ability of the pi-esentation, the ALUMNUS takes particular pleasure in repro­ducing "The Opportunity of the Cath­olic College in Business Education," a paper read by Father Lahey before the A'ationul Catholic Educatiatml Association in New Orleans, June 12.) 
a Catholic teacher I have 
always been interested in this 
great deliberative assembly, 
but as a particular kind of 

teacher I have felt somewhat as an 
outsider looking in. You will under­
stand my feelings when I tell you 
that I teach Advertising and Selling 
to students in Commerce. With that 
kind of a past, and what it means to 
some of you, I feel almost constrained 
to utter the old leper cry, "Unclean! 
Unclean!" when coming into tliis as­
sembly. And yet, with the memory 
of all the fine things that you have 
said and done here, I have risked 
crashing these gates of respectability 
to speak upon "The Opportunity of 
the Catholic College in Business Edu­
cation." 
I offer these thoughts because I honestly believe that in this counti-y in this particular period of its growth the Catholic Church has a remarkable missionary opportunity which should not be neglected. The workings of Providence are mysterious I know, and sometimes beyond comprehension, but I think I see God rather than Satan in this material leadership that has been so suddenly thrust upon us. To me it is no mere accident that this country with its remarkable vari­ation of climate and its richness of natural resources should have been set aside as a workshop until the tools of this particular civilization should be fa.shioned and put into the hands of a new generation with a particular genius for those tools. 
And yet apparently that has hap­pened. In the fields of art and liter­ature and music and sculpture the highest peaks of accomplishment to which modern literature can aspire seem for the present at least to be securely within the possession of the masters of the past. In the field of material development, the to­tally unexpected has happened. An infant nation without either experi­ence or traditions or precedents to guide it has taken the tools of yes­terday and the natural resources of 
A
S 
a virgin land and out of them has fashioned a material civilization the like of which not even the most imaginative of men has ever dreamed. 
It is the divine gift working in the material field as it once did in the field of art and literature and music —working perhaps with the purpose of lessening human drudgery so that we might give ourselves as a race to the cultivation of higher things? If it is, then we have no right to con­demn it unconditionally because of the abuses .that have grown up around its inexperienced beginnings. One hesitates to say that there is anything providential about it, and yet something has happened in this your day when within a single life­span each of you has looked upon a panorama of progress such as not all the eyes of all previous generations have been privileged to see. You have seen the auto come and the mov­ing picture and rayon and the vacuum cleaner and the x-ray and telephoto and television. You can whisper from this building into the ear of your New York friend, you can call back the voice of the dead Caruso, you can draw heat and cold and light and music out of the same wire. And you have profited by most of these inventions. 
But, my friends, these things have not come alone. They have brought with them such a stirring of the mul­titude in this country that we have found ourselves in the throes of a new revolution which only the Cath­olic Church I believe can properly control. As a result of this machine civilization the American workman not only receives the highest wage in all history but he gets that wage for an eight-hour day with a five-day week in the offing. In spite of all the abuses you may name—and at the present moment you may name many —it is a fact that for the first time in history millions of workers have found themselves lifted from the treadmill existence of earning the bare necessities and within the reach of some of the comforts and con­veniences of life. As a result of that opportunity, our people now own 65% of the telephones, 86% of the aut'os, 70% of the bank deposits, and 86% of the life insurance of the world al­though numerically we represent less than 7% of its population. And that is not a mere wealthy man's wealth as the 20,000,000 automobiles, the 14,000,000 bath tubs, the 19,000,000 telephones, the 5,000,000 banK ac­counts, and the 60,000,000 life in­surance policies indicate. 
That has only been the beginning. 
In addition to furnishing the working 
man the opportunities of food and 
clothing and shelter and some of the 
playthings of life beyond anything in 
his previous existence, this new revo­
lution has lifted some of the burden 
of labor from his back and placed it 
upon the back of the machine; it has 
put something of the beauty of form 
and color and music into his home; it 
has given him some of the opportuni­
ties of leisure, and it has furnished 
him also the means of enjoying that 
leisure and of capitalizing it also if 
he so desires; above all, it has broken 
down the old castes of power and 
wealth and blood, and it has given 
him for the first time in history the 
opportunity of mingling mentally and 
physically with his former masters 
and of competing with them upon an 
honest basis of accomplishment. 
And what an upheaval there has been particularly in the field of every­day business. Ability has come up from the ranks in a way that has startled society. Most of our rail­road presidents started pretty close to the tracks; and, of fifty men who have recently been voted the commer­cial and industrial geniuses of the age, all but a scant half score came up out of poverty. When a delega­tion of British workers went into the Union League Club in 1926 to meet a distinguished group of Captains of Industry, the fact that these •vj itors could bring back word to the workers of the world that with one exception every industrial leader there had come out of the ranks of labor—that situation to my mind opens up a new epoch in the world's commercial and indu.strial history, an epoch in which the opportunities of life are thrown open to any man who has the ability and the courage to grasp them. 
Opportunities have not lessened any since these men took up careers, but the conditions for leadership have. We were breaking new paths then, building up a new empire, and the lessons of experience had little to of­fer. Amid these conditions education was hardly necessary or even pos­sible as a preparation for business. Level heads and square jaws were at a premium then, and the man who possessed the proper combination of these pioneer qualities became the new leaders of our civilization. 
Business has aged ten thousand years since these early days. It has its social problems now and its legal anxieties, and it is tangled up with politics in a bewildering way. It has a thousand techniques, and it is so sensitive in the intricacy of its opera­tion that the breath of a whisper can shake it to its foundations. The young man who enters into the Amer­ican business field today has not much of a chance unless he has received some preparation for progress. There are hidden forces which he .should know, silent influences which he must understand, the mingling of many currents which he ought to appre­ciate. 
Business has not the time to teach 
him its secrets and it will not run the 
risk of allowing him to learn them by 
the hit-and-miss method of experi­
ence. But it has placed that informa­
tion where he can get it. The recoi-ds 
of previous workers have been gath­
ered and scrutinized and analyzed. In 
turn this residue of experience has 
been tested and modified and retested 
in and out of the laboratory. Busi­
ness has its literature now and its 
libraries and its principles of effec­
tive procedure. It has even aspired 
to professional demands. "What has 
been your educational approach to 
this work?" is being asked more and 
more of the young man seeking his 
first position. 
The man at the machine has sensed 
the situation. He has seen the source 
of his own handicap. Every day of 
his life he has had it hammered into 
him by the logic of circumstance that 
in the competition of business the 
person who rules is the person who 
Iniows. Under the inspiration of that 
obser\-ation he is for the first time 
in history enthusiastically sending 
his children to school, and he is ask­
ing that they get some sort of im­
mediate preparation for the life that 
they are going to live. Our educa­
tional institutions have listened to 
his plea. -Almost every high school 
has its commercial courses now, al­
most every town its business college. 
Even adults are going to school 
again by way of evening classes and 
correspondence courses. Our colleges 
too have felt the demand and yielded 
to it. Before ISOS there was only one 
school of collegiate standing in the 
United States offering any substantial 
preparation for business at all. To­
day over one hundred and eighty-five 
colleges and universities have for­
mally organized units of this type of 
instruction. 
Catholic parents have not been less ambitious about their children than others, but their instincts have warned them against the pagan philosophies which abound in our State institutions. They are sending their children to us by the thousands, therefore, not merely to get a business training but to get that training un­der Catholic influences; and approxi­mately thirty odd Catholic colleges through their annual catalogues have written their pledge to provide some sort of a preparation of that tj'pe. I believe that in this overnight demand for the educated executive and our Catholic response ^o that demand we have an opportunity for Catholic.lay leadership such as we have seldom had in American history. I base my belief upon the fact that the new mechanism of industry has been built upon a presumption of what we might c^U commercial virtue such as our Catholic schools in their commercial courses are particularly able to give. 
In the first place, modern manu­facturing demands of its leaders a more generous consideration for the rights of the worker than has hither­to been given him in the past. The attractive economies of big-scale pro­duction, for which most of our fac­tories are now equipped, cannot be realized over any extended period of time unless the products of industry are distributed liberally among the millions of laborers. That distribu­tion in turn is itself impossible unless those same workers have sufficiency of money with which to buy and plenty of time in which to consume the articles of industry. Generous wages, therefore, low purchase price, work for the man who will work, and short hours for all—that combination used to be a dream. It will not be a dream any longer if we can only give to the business profession that new type of leadership which it so emi­nently needs, a leadership built upon a proper appreciation for the mechan­ism of modern commerce and for €he welfare of the masses upon whom that mechanism so ultimately depends. 
The need of our type of training does not stop there however. Approx­imately ninety percent of our business today is done on credit—on the promise to pay—and, while business tries to secure these promises by some sort of concrete guarantees, commercial transactions depend so ultimately upon honesty and fidelity that character is universally con­sidered as the very foundation of business. Even advertising and sell­ing, which have been long looked upon with suspicion, must submit them­selves more and more to ethical restraints in order to work effectively. Exaggerations and falsehoods may make sales today, but they will Just as surely make doubters tomorrow. The business man above all other men dares not trifle with truth; if he does, he takes away the one element that makes advertising and selling an effective control over consumer de­mand—man's faith in the language of business. 
As a matter of fact, my friends, the more we examine our business organizations today, the more do we realize that the controls of its power­ful but intricate mechanism must be thoroughly understood, must be in proper hands, must be used with a sense of responsibility or tragedy 
threatens. There is no institution in 
the nation better fitted to build up in 
its manhood that necessary combina­
tion of knowledge and personal re­
spDnsibility than the Catholic college 
in its department cf business educa­
tion. More and more the commercial 
world will look in our direction for 
responsible leadership. It will be 
compelled to do so for its own protec­
tion. 
Where the dollar sign twinkles the robbers naturallj' gather, and the liars and murderers also. Under the spur of ambition and the opportunity of leadership a certain percent of the unscrupulous have already climbed to positions of power particularly dur­ing the pioneer period of our prog­ress. It is not easy to point out these rascals, for they are axperts in the art of camouflage. They lie grace­fully under the lure of skilfully worded advertisements, they cheat with dignity in soft voices back of quartered oak desks, they murder delicately and with finesse behind the almost imperceptible weapons of low wages and impi-oper working condi­tions, etc. 
Not all the abuses of the present, of course, are to be laid at the feet of these men. But allowing for the rashness of youth, the rush of en­thusiasm, and the mistakes of igno­rance—which have characterized the beginnings of this new age—there has been and there is today an ele­ment of personal abuse which has besn largely responsible for the faulty functioning of our economic machin­ery. Pick at random any one of the vicious situations in business today, run it back far enough, and you will be apt to find somewhere in the ofling a person of prominence or a group of such persons misusing their leader­ship for p3rsonal aggi-andizement. There is no lack of prosperity or of economic energy in a system that can bring the per capita wealth of a na­tion of one hundred and twenty mil­lions from $870 to almost $3,000 in fifty years; but there is most cer­tainly something wrong with the stewardship of that energy when al­most 34,000 millionaires can grow up within the boundaries of the same nation that houses 2,000,000 aged de­pendents. Roger Babson was right, and he gave the educators of Ameri­can manhood something to think about, when he summed up his years of statistical observation in the judg­ment that depressions are not so much a matter of money stringency as they are of somebody ti-ying to monkey with the multiplication table and the Ten Commandments. 
Most of our leaders today realize the situation. They have already awakened to the necessity of what have chosen to call the commercial virtuss. That realization has already crystallized into at least 300 separate­ly organized efforts by various asso­ciations to unite their membership into ethical practices. But, my dear friends, those movements will never rise to anything higher than a doUar­and-cEnts level until we can increas­ingly put into our various business oi'ganizations men with spiritual vision enough to labor for something more than mere money returns, men who are willing to dedicate their lives if necessaiy to the long hard fight against dishonesty, against listless legislators, against the power of precedent, above all against the dead­ly temptation of the dishonest dollar. Where in all the world can business look for men with ability enough and with faith enough to take up that challenge if not in the commercial classrooms of our Catholic institu­tions. 

Fortunately we already have that material in the process of making. Thousands of young men have regis­tered with us not merely to get a preparation for business but to get a Catholic preparation so that they may live Catholic lives in their chosen professions and incidentally for the good of religion reflect the light of Catholic truth upon its principles and practices. We must equip these young men to live up to their destinies. By judiciously telescoping and shorten­ing less essential courses we must make their training as Catholic and as cultural as possible without at the same time sacrificing any of the tech­nical requirements necessary to keep it up to certain recognized levels of professional efficiency. 
But we must do much more than that. We must purify the ideals of these students and give them worthy objectives. We must open their eyes to their opportunities for good. We must inspire them with something of a crusading spirit for their work. One potent reason why Catholic young men have tended to go into business with rather low motives is the unholy emphasis that has been laid upon money at every mention of commer­cial activity. Now the clink of the dollar will always accompany the transactions of a purely economic profession, but that activity need not i)e the sole aim and it should not even be the chief aim of the type of graduate we should be sending out from our schools. 
These young men should not be made to suffer our sneers because they have elected to work out their salva­tion in business surroundings. They should be taught that the service of God can wear just as honest a face in a business office as in the com­munity room of a religious order. After all, there are no castes in the Kingdom of God. Sanctity has been known to walk some mighty humble paths in the saving of souls. The Master Himself was the supreme example of that. And He has told us something of the spirituality that can be put into so lowly an act as giving a cup of cold water. Well, the young men in our schools are preparing to go into businesses that involve feed­ing the hungi'y and clothing the naked and sheltering the shelterless on a large scale. There is no reason at all why they cannot be inspired to turn these activities into Corporal Works of Mercy through the medium of fair wages, steady employment, the honest distribution of profits, and any one of a dozen other activities looking to the welfare of workers. 
And why should not we be teach­ing our young men to spiritualize these secular activities? God gave us the tools and the talents and the ma­terials of this great commercial de­velopment with no other intention than that we should use them in His seivice. If we have made a golden calf out of His gifts, it is we who must bearthe blame and not the ma­terials we have worshipped. But past abuses should not blind us to future opportunities. We have been elected, as it were, to take the leadership in the greatest material development that the world has ever seen; but we must accept the problems of that leadership also, problems to which only the Church can offer a definite and adequate solution. Never before has the commercial world needed that solution more than right now in this adjustment period between the old and the new order; and never before have leaders been so forced by cir­cumstances to be in a more receptive mood to the steadying influence of the particular type of manhood that we have to offei\ 
We cannot properly exert that in­fluence, however-, by the process of remote control. We have tried that method in the past and it has not worked. We must prepare our young men to carry their Catholic ideals into the very council rooms of our com­mercial organizations. We must send them into the fields of ownership and management equipped educationally and spiritually to lay holy hands upon the great commercial forces which are threatening to run riot in the nation today. What greater spur do we need to so high and so holy an ambition than the realization that we are able to meet that challenge. With a ci\ilization that for the first time in history offers its opportunities with­out question of position or parentage, with a commercial mechanism that needs the steadying influence of our type of manhood, with the talent for leadership that surely must exist in our great Catholic population with a magnificent school system to equip that talent, and with approximately twenty million followers to .give it power — my dear friends, what couldn't we do to spiritualize this new 
leadership which has come npon ns? There are other Apostleships in the Providence of God than those of Peter and James and John; and, who knows, but by giving the young men in our charge an exalted preparation for leadership we may be sending forth a new tjrpe of missioner that will help to turn this national genius of ours and our present material progress to the glory of God in a way that never would have been possible under more primitive conditions of living. 
It does not matter so much if these young students are not so numerous at present, if they are only of the right stuff as they leave our hands. This modem world through its print­ing press and moving picture and radio has given us opportunities of multiplying our influences a million times over if we will only learn as Catholics to enlist these material gifts in the service of God instead of allow­ing them to become the weapons of wickedness. Cardinal Gibbons wrote a book, "The Faith of Our Fathers," and in nine months recently 230,000 copies of the Holy Name Edition of that work were distributed. The saintly prelate is dead, but his influ­ence carries on, and his message con­tinues to be multiplied a million times over by means of the printing press. Al Smith spoke on one evening of his presidential campaign to more people than ever listened to Demosthenes in his entire career. Mr. Smith multi­plied himself and his message several millions of times by means of the radio. In our Catholic preparation for life we have the solution to the world's social and industrial prob­lems, we have the talent and the elo­quence to bring that solution to its ears, and we are sending out from our schools a sufficient number of what should be working examples of our educational preparation for life, but are we taking advantage of our modern material helps to properly present and properly multiply what we have to offer? 'The opportunities are there and we have the means, if we will only use what we have instead of throwing up our hands and sigh­ing for the good old days which w^e probably would not be so enthusiastic 
over if we had to live them. Are we going to allow the material developments of the day to choke the spirituality out of our youth or are we going to use these very develop­ments as God intended that we should for His greater glory and the good of souls? I am presuming to answer that challenge aflirmatively in the words of Cardinal Newman who \vrote as only he could about the way in which the Church has consistently utilized the developments of every age in the service of God. "He ii no recluse," says NewTnan, referring to the Church by way of the Vicar of Christ, "no solitary student, no 
dreamer, no projector of the vision­ary. He for 1800 years has lived in the world, he has seen all fortunes, he has encountered all adversaries, he has shaped himself for all emergen­ciEs. If ever there was a power on earth that had an eye for the times, who has confined himself to the prac­ticable, and has been happy in his an­ticipations, whose words have been facts and whose commands prophecies, such is hs in the history of ages, who sits from generation to generation in the Chair of the Apostles, as the Vicar of Christ and the Doctor of the Church." That is what the Church is destined to do eventually in this machine age—to take over and spiritualize these material develop­ments which have come upon us. We should be preparing our students to participate actively in this missionai-y work of the new day. 
A COLLEGE EDUCATION— 
WH.\T IS IT? 

To be at home in all lands and ages; to count nature a familiar ac­quaintance and art an intimate friend; to gain a standard for the apprecia­tion of other men's work and the criticism of your o%vn; to carry the keys of the world's library in your pocket, and feel its resources behind you in whatever you undertake; to make hosts of friends among the men of your own age who are to be leaders in all the walks of life; to lose your­self in generous enthusiasms and co­operate with others for common ends —this is the offer of the college for the best four years of your life. 
—William DeWitt Htide. 

ADULT EDUCATION PROGRESSES The "alumni college" season has closed. What is an alumni college? It is a short course of a week or so for alumni, held generally at Com­mencement time. They are generally quartered together in one of the dor­mitories, they eat together, some­times along with the faculty, they hear lectures together, and play to­gether—^for the- afternoons are gen­erally given over to golf, s^s^mming, etc. The nature of the subjects taken up in the lectures varies, of course. Lafayette College, the pioneer in the movement, lists among other things economics, electrical engineering, psy­chology, political tendencies, biology, geology. Alumni who have attended "alumni colleges" seem to experience considerable and physical exhilaration, and get some knowledge of what is going on in the world outside their own fieldsi Lafayette charges the alumnus only §25 for the week, this including everything. Other colleges and universities that have had "alum­ni colleges" this year are Michigan, Iowa State, Wesleyan, and Berea. 
FREDERICK P. KENKEL RECEIVES IAETARE MEDAL 
(Continued from Paffe 6) 

ic and distinguished company of her Laetare Medallists. Your title to en­rollment there bears a validity all its own. Men and women of our Faith have won this honor, often because their endeavors merely ran parallel with great Catholic purposes, and sometimes even by reason of some 
RBV. FRANCIS WENNINGER, C.S.C. 
I'resents Medal 

single great achievement which de­rived its power from the Divine tra­dition that is ours. In your case, it is a lifetime of such service that we recognize and crown. You have been not merely a great Catholic doing great work: rather, you have dedi­cated your whole life exclusively to the doing of great Catholic work. Understanding the importance of Catholic journalism, realizing the tre­mendous potentialities of Catholic Action, appreciating the power for good in organized lay activity, you have labored as a pioneer in all these fields with the energy, the industry and the vision of an apostle and with a success of which this Diamond Jubi­lee anniversary of the Central Verein is only one of the many glorious proofs. 
Therefore the University of Notre Dame, with the single purpose of do­ing homage to the most worthy, of her Faith and nationhood, has named you. Sir, as the recipient of her most cherished distinction, to which in turn the full measure of your deserving will but add new lustre. 
In recognition of signal devotion to Faith and country, in consideration of personal worth which native modesty and humility have not been able to conceal, the University of Notre Dame asks you, Frederick Philip Kenkel, to accept the Laetare Medal for this year of Our Lord, nineteen hundred and thirty. May you wear it unto length of days in the serene enjoyment that comes from the con­sciousness of work well done, and may you receive it as an earnest of that fuller, future recognition whose beatitude passeth understanding. 
GEORGE ADE SAYS— 

Sometimes I wonder if our fer\-ent ballyhoos and circus advertisements ever arouse any of the grads and e.x­students "who have become comatose and calloused. If only we could make them understand that we are laboring for their own good! Honestly, a man or woman who has enjoyed the rich and varied experiences of a four-year course at a good university, his sheep­skin representing a gift to him, in­stead of something he has earned and paid for, who has succeeded to a full partnership in the achievements of his school after he left, and who has acquired a new importance because of the growing importance of the uni­versit;-—such a person, who fails to take a lively interest in developments back on the campus, is in a bad way. 
—George Ade. 

JUDGE OF CRAFT GUILD The Rev. T. A. Steiner, C.S.C, dean of the college of engineering at Notre Dame, has been appointed a member of the honorary board of judges of the recently organized Fisher Body Craftsman's guild. He and fellow-judges A\ill supemse the awarding of four university scholarships of four years and valued at §5,000 each, and other awards offered the boys of-America by the guild in its program of fostering education in manual arts and to perpetuate the ideals of the ancient craft guilds. The guild and its educational pro­gram are sponsored by leading educa­tors and industrialists. Dan Beard, national commissioner of the Boy Scouts of America, is honorary pres­ident. 
CATHOLIC U. GETS N. D. JIEN With the appointment during the summer of John McDill Fox, -A..B. '09,. as dean of its law school, and with the appointment of Arthur Bergman, 
LL.B. '19, as director of athletics. Catholic University joins the ranks of the American colleges who have rec­ognized the achievements in various fields of alumni of Notre Dame. 
Dean Fox was formerly professor of law at Marquette University, while Director Bergman was the very pop­ular assistant coach at Minnesota under Doctor Spears. 
B 
EDITORIAL^ 


[)l2€AilSE 
E
CONOMIC depression, unemployment, and consequent financial conservatism every­where, have not seemed to be encouraging factors in activities such as those of an alumni association. 
It is, therefore, with the sincerest appreciation of its significance that the Notre Dame Alumni Association has found this summer, with all its apparent handicaps, the greatest in its history. 
The Association, through its officers, is pleased to interpret the summer as symbolic of a new set of values in Notre Dame alumni life. 
The exact boundaries of the summer's success are very difficult to define. More than four years as Editor of the ALUMNUS have brought vnth. them a "psychic" ability to know the alumni body and its mood without evidence as the courts know evidence. 
Tangible results, however, have not been want­ing. Response to appeals for Living Endowment contributions and for annual dues have been record-breaking in the latter instance, encourag­ing in the former. 
Local Clubs, as that department of this issiie reveals, have not passed an idle summer. This phenomenon, in itself, has most promising rami­fications. 
Football enthusiasm is at present boosting the alumni mercury well into the fever-heat zone, threatening to burst the tube. And why not? Knute Rockne, coaching the national champions of 1929, is not given to any other school. No one wishes to curb this exhilaration. Balance, sanity, reason,—these are asked. Football should be to Notre Dame alumni what it has been to Notre Dame, a factor without which the University existed for many successful years, but with which it has unquestionably speeded and rounded out its development. It is a healthful outlet as well —a stimulating outdoor recreation—a character-builder for those who play and those who watch it played. Football has become the letter of intro­duction of the Notre Dame man. Ability and personality must supplement it if it is to be of permanent value. 
Living Endo^vment, the plan of annual, volun­tary contributions by which alumni may aid materially in the progi-ess of Notre Dame, is, in the opinion of those responsible for its adoption, the greatest alumni project attempted. It is a alumni are great. It opens the way for develop­ment beyond the University and alumni circles as they now exist. 
A few have voiced the opinion that this par­ticular time was not propitious to the success of Living EndowTnent. Aside from results to date, which are very encouraging, if not extensive or startling, present conditions should actually aid its ultimate success. It is a plan based upon the assumption of limited ability to give. It was adopted at Notre Dame because the great majority of Notre Dame men ai-e young men, whose success does not yet find itself mirrored in large financial reserves from which substantial gifts for permanent endowment may be expected. Itso happens that current conditions have limited the ability of pi-actically all our alumni, old and young. The plan, therefore, should find its funda­mental principle supported unanimously in this particular period. 
The Association is fortunate in having as its president one of the nation's gi'eat leaders. Frank 
E. Hering is one of the outstanding public figures in the present unemployment crisis. Through his fraternal organization he is launching a move­ment for the allexiation of cyclical unemployment that has world-wide significance. His work in two other fields of national prominence, old-age pensions and Mother's Day, has been too \videly known to call for more than mention here. He is Editor of the Eagles Magazine, with 600,000 readers. The Editor of the ALUMNUS takes this first opportunity to inform Notre Dame men that President Hering is devoting his talents and many hours, hours that a hundred causes seek, to Notre Dame and the Association. 
The University, through Rev. Charles L. O'Don­nell, C. S. C, and his fellow-administrators, and the Congregation of Holy Cross, through the Very Rev. James A. Burns, C. S. C, provincial, are vitally and enthusiastically behind the efforts of the alumni towards a Greater Notre Dame. 
Never has there been such organization among Notre Dame gi-aduates.' Never has there been such interest and co-operation from the Uni^ versity. Never has the need been gi'eater for the preservation and promotion of those distinctive and invaluable assets which are peculiarly Notice Dame's. 
project that has no limits. It is as gi-eat as our Never has there been such a promise of success! 
ATHLETICS; 

..Q  
JVho's  JVho In  Notre  Dame's  1930 Football  
BY JOSEPH S. PETKITZ,  '32  
Director  of Sports  Publicity  

"The outlook is good. We will have a strong team." 
Thus optimistically did Knute Rockne, Notre Dame athletic director and head football coach, answer our question on prospects for the 1930 season at Notre Dame. 
The loss of an entire line and two backiield stars, the rigorous schedule confronting him, and the failure to retui-n of ten freshmen and five re­serves from 1929 seem to have had little or no effect on the man back of Notre Dame's football successes. 
With practice starting Monday, September l."), less than three weeks from the opening game with Southern Methodist University, it is plainly evident that "Rock" and his assistants will have to utilize every minute of the practice sessions to build up a new line and sufficient i-eserve strength to carry Notre Dame through one of the hardest of its many rigorous sched­ules. 
Right from the start it will be a battle, for S. M. U. is nobody's set-uj) and reports from the South indicate that the Texans plan to give Notre Dame a rsal run for its money. Two years ago at West Point against Army, Southern Methodist flashed a passing attack that left critics open-mouthed. They said that it was one of the best aerial at­tacks ever seen in 
CATC-i.

the East and the fact that S. M. U. has not been de­feated in three years of Southwest conference pla y confirms this rat­ing undeniably. 
Following thi s game comes Navy and the dedication of the new Noti-e Dame stadium Oc­tober 11. Navy, which last year held the national champions to a 14 to 7 victory, boast­ed one of the s t ro n gest plebe teams in its his­
tory and will be keyed to the high­est possible pitch Alumni preferred a successful dedication. Following Na\'y on October 18 will come Car­negie Tech, always a tough outfit, and doubly so against Notre Dame. It was Carnegie that handed Notre Dame its only defeat in 23 years on Cartier field and, since the same sod has been moved to the new stadium, there will be a battle royal when the Scotch meet the Irish. 
Pittsburg, rated high despite hea\'y losses from its national championship runners-up last year, will see Notre Dame in the latter's first game away from home this Fall on October 25. Following this game, Indiana, the Big Ten dark horse, will come to South Bend. 
Notre Dame's se:ond Eastern in­vasion will come November 8, when Rockne takes his men to Philadelphia for a game with what is reputed to be one of the strongest Pennsylvania teams in history. Drake, the team that almost upset Notre Dame last year and which always gives a battle, will appear in South Bend November 1.5, winding up the home schedule. 
The final stretch will see Notre Dame at Evanston against North­western November 22, at Chicago against Anny, November 29, and at Los Angeles against Southei-n Cali­
GATCS-4 -3 -6 

6  7  a  9  10  It  IZ  13  
n  n  n  n  n  n  n  n  
1  rm![&:=  

a so
a X 40 so w X 
: I I I I 
AX}rff£ OAM£ SrADIUM 
• J_L • • 
atati 
^"am-a 
YOU'LL GET THE GATE LATER 

sections, 9-5; visiting team, 10-14; three-ijear season tickets, answer at this 
fornia, December G. Northwestern's Sophomore line of 1929 coupled with the ball cari-ying ability of Hank Bruder will present a real menace to any championship hopes Notre Dame may entertain up until this time. Army and Southern California are watchwords wh-rever football is known and there is no need of going into detail concerning either. 
With the schedule thus hastily disposed of we can turn to the players and see what the outlook is. At cen­ter there is a large hole to be filled due to the graduation of Tim Moyni­han and Joe Nash. Tommy Yarr, third string last year, probably will get first choice at this position, al­though he will be pressed by four outstanding freshmen, Agnew, Butler, Cavanaugh, and Gorman, who lack only experience. 
Tom Kassis and Bert Metzger, shock troop men last year, seem in a fair way to fill the shoes of Jack Can­non and Captain John Law at left and light guard respectively. Both are experienced and can take care of themselves creditably against the best. Kerjes, a reserve, and two freshmen, Turlock and Harris, look like the best second string material. 
Last year Dick Danoghue and Frank Leahy bat­tled through the season alternating with one another at right tackle while Ted Twomey took care of the left side. With Twomey gone, Rockne figures he cannot afford to bench either of t h e m and will p r.o b a b 1 y move Leahy to left, leav­ing Donoghue at right. Culver and M c M a n m 0 n, re­serves last year, will probably team up at tackles with the shock troops. 
The loss of Ed Collins and John Colrick at left end presents another question and the 

to spoil plans for and one-ijear season tickets, 27-23; student body, 2S-JO. writing looks like 
Johnny O'Brien, who specializes in havoc with our gesture at "expert­pass receiving, but who has developed ing," but judging by past perform­
FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 

into a capable all-around man. He ances the foregoing is probably as was with the third team last year and Oct. 4—Southern Methodist at close as one can come this early in the will have to fight to beat out Paul Fall to picking a team. Time alone— 
Notre Dame. 

Host, Koy Bailie, and Kosky, reserves about three weeks—will tell how close from 1929. Another possibility is that. Oct. 11—Navy at Notre Dame we have come. Eockne will move Gsorge Vlk, shock (Dedication of tlie New Stmdium) troop right end last year, to left, leav­Oct. 18—Carnegie Tech. at Notre I^iiiiiiiimiim iminiii niiniiimimimiiiiittiiii^ ing Captain-elect Tom Conley at right Dame. end. In this case, O'Brien will play 
A Statement to Notre 1

Oct. 25—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh. 
with ths second team in all proba­bility. Nov. 1—Indiana at Notre Dame. I"-:: Dame Alumni | 
Veterans in the backfield are phnti-Nov. 8—Pennsylvania at Phila­I by Rev. .Michael .Mulcaire, C.S C, |
ful and Rockne's problem here will be delphia. more one of selection than anything I Chairman, Board of Control |
Nov. 15—Drake at Notre Dame. 
else. At quarterback, the loss of Al i of Athletics |
Nov. 22—Northwestern at Evanston. Frank Carideo, ail-American choice, Nov. 29—-Army at Chicago. I Academic consideration s i is back to guide the first team. Dec. G—Southern California at Los I caused the University, through i Gebert will be felt greatly although 
Gebert's place with the second squad I Rev. Charles L. O'DonnelU C.S. |
.Angeles. 

will probably be filled by Christman, i C, president, to ask the United 1 Murphy, Cronin, or Jaskwich. The = States Military Academy to shift = 
first three named were reserves last I the site of the 1930 Army-Nolre | year and Jaskwich showed up well Elder's old place before the season is 
i Dame game, originally scheduled i with the frosh. very old. He'll bear watching at 
f for New York City, to Soldier's |Another blow to the backfield is the least. I Field, Chicago. The West Point |
loss of Jack Elder, one of the greatest Marty Brill, Paul O'Connor, and i officials courteously consented 1 ball-carriers ever developed at Notre Clarence Kaplan, all seniors, will I to this change. |Dame. His successor will probably probably rank in the order named at 
I The first of these football 1be either Bernie Leahy or Marchmont right half. 
I classics to be played in the Mid-\Schwartz, both of whom can pass, Injuries, the devalopraent of last I die West was early foreseen to |kick, and run. Mike Koken, who was year's freshmen, and the possibility I be tremendous in its drawing iineligible last year, is reputed to have of some unknown reserve becoming I power. The Army, to whom |plenty of talent and may stsp into inspired at the last minute may raise 
I Notre Dame was under obliga-| I tion for the change of site, re-i I quested more than the usual | I number of gocJ seats allotted a i I visiting team, and were given | i all the seats on the West side of i I Soldier Field. | 
I This move leaves Notre Dame i I with but one side of the Field, i I some eleven thousand seats be-i I tween the goal posts, with which | 1 to satisfy a demand that has al-i i ready broken all records. | 
1 It is necessary to place the | I entire student body and faculty, i I thealumni, and the season ticket | 1 holders, numbering in all many | I more than the available seats be-: I tween the goal posts, to the best | I advantage of all concerned. \ 
I Needless to say, many dessrv-| I ing persons will not be placed to | I their liking. In planning the |
N. D.—COAcmxG COACHES—1930 
I distribution, officials have tried |
Geoirjc Keoijun, basketball; Heartley "Hunk" Amlerson, Kmite K. Roekne, 
i to give everyone the best pos-i 
Glen "Poij" Warner, Roger Kilei/ and diet Wynne, football. r sible consideration. | I Alumni, who are acquainted | 1930 COACHING SCHOOL I with Notre Dame and its prob-: More than fifty candidates for fame in the field of coaching came to the I lems, are particularly requested | I to co-operate in this unusual sit-i
shrine of that particular ambition for the 1930 coaching school, which lasted 
I nation. Your good will toward |August 11 to 23. 
i your school is not believed to |In the absence of Coach Eockne (anticipated absence—as a matter of fact I rest upon the matter of a few i the Old Master was on hand for a few hot tips) Glen "Pop" Warner of Stanford, 
I yards either way at a football | no mean e-xponent of the game of football, outlined the famous Warner system, I game. If your tickets are poor. | 
while Hartley, better known "Hunk", Anderson, Eockne's former star and I or.if additional orders cannot be | 
present able assistant, coached the Eockne system. Eoger Kiley and Chet I filled, the University asks you to ^ | Wynne, former star end and full-back under Eockne, assisted the demonstration I regard this particular game as | 
I an emergency. |
of the Eockne system. George Keogan, one of the country's leading basketball coachcs, headed that department of the school. Q •iiti)i*iaiiiiiiiii **EI 
tlllttlitiiit 

B ..0 
THE OLD FIGHTER 
Back With the Old Fight 
ROCKNE AMPLIFIES Knute K. Rockne, who has made Notre Dame football teams the talk of the ccuntry for many years, will coach his 1930 aggregation "by re­mote control," as it were, by means of a public address system. Seated in a specially constructed tower and speaking into a micro­phone, the noted mentor's caustic re­marks will be carried to his team by means of amplifiers which will reach all parts of the practice field. Coach Rockne was ill last season and most of the winter and while his physical condition is said to have greatly improved, he is expected carefully to conserve his strength for the arduous duties that •will be his this coming fall in whipping another championship team into shape. The apparatus which he will use is the product of Albert R. Kahn and L. 
R. Burroughs, South Bend young men, who are manufacturing and market­imr it under the name of the Electro-Voice Manufacturing Co.. Inc. Their headquarters are at 110 W. Colfax Ave. They entered into a contract recently with Mr. Rockne to furnish him the paraphernalia in time for the opening of the practice season. 
TO PEN AUTOBIOGRAPHY Announcement was made recently that Knute K. Rockne, famous Notre Dame football coach and athletic di­rector, has signed a contract with Collier's Weckli/ magazine to write his own story of his life, to run in eight weekly installments, beginning late in August. John Bright Ken­nedy, associate editor of the maga­zine, made arrangements for the se­ries when he was a guest of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of the St. Joseph Valley. 
« 

ir» 
(-4s Mi: Kipling Might Close This Football Ticket Topic) 
IF your dues were paid by August First as various notices suggested, and 
IF your applications reached "the Athletic Association on the same date, and 
IF you ordered only the allotted number of tickets, or fewer, as directed, and 
IF you ordered on 'the applications sent you, marked "Alumni," and IF you were correctly listed in the Alumni i-ecords, which the Athletic Association used in mailing, or IF you left a forwarding address. Applications were mailed first class this year. IF you realize that your order, even placed as above, is only one of many, and 
IF you realize that Noti-e Dame, with a very inadequate endo\\Tnent and a very small alumni group, comparatively, needs outside friends, and 
IF you consider that neither the University nor the Athletic Association has anything to gain from discriminat­ing against alumni, and 
IF, on the other hand, you realize that football tickets comprise a big business, and as such must be distributed by rules and regulations, and 
IF you will understand that where exceptions to the rules occur they are usually for the good of the Univei'sitj', and 
IF you remember that many alumni who purchase eight tickets do not even use one of them, and IF you recall that our entire Association, placed in Soldier Field, would comprise 4% of the crowd, and 
IF you consider that the season ticket purchaser places his money on the board in advance for all the home games, and 
IF you recall that you were notified and invited to par­ticipate in the season ticket plan, and IF you i-emember, wherever you sit, that football is a sport, a recreation, and IF you consider Notre Dame as your Alma Mater and not as your source of football tickets, and IF, no matter what you think of the above, j'ou realize that all Alumni preference closed Sept. 15—then 
YOU'RE A NOTRE DAME MAN, MY SON! 
Q-a .tHtt»ii»iuitutt»itniiitiiiiii)tiiiuiiitiiti 
Ii» 
Ssptember, 1030 . THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
15 

iliiiiitliii)ii*ttitiilii<i)ilii)tiiit**tt>IMiiitli<tiiiiiiintii)iiiiMlii)illMui«tmin»Mtt 



I President Frank Hering's Greetings 
To NOTRE DAME MEN: 
Since the last issue of the ALUMNUS I have had opportun­ity to test the loyalty of Notre Dame men in cities as widely sep­arated as South Bend, Indiana, and Los Angeles and San Fran­cisco, California. 
The first club that I had the privilege of addressing as national president, was the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley—my 0 w n club. The splendid attend­ance, the inspira­tiona l addresses, the interest mani­fested, and the pledges given are set forth elsewhere by ou r national secretary. I am confident that the Notre Dame Club St. Joseph Valley, our largest alumni club, will contrib­uete 100 psr cent to the Living En­dowment Fund. Those of us charged with re­sponsibility ar e concerned not so much with the amount of individ­ual contributions— although every loyal Notre Dame man will give to the Fund all that he can. Our task is to have every man give some­thing, during the scholastic year 1930-31. 

Early in August, KEENE FlTZPATMCK, PRESIDENT HERIXG, LAWRENCE "BUCK" SHAW personal matters "Libertii, Fraternitij, and the Perfect Man" 
led me to Cali­fornia. There I met first with representative mem­bers of the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles. They forgathered at the University Club, with President Henry Dockweiler presiding. After an appetizing luncheon, I spoke for a half-hour. I stressed, as convincingly as I could in that time, the plans now working out for a greater Notre Dame; the buildings under construction; the need of additional funds to in­crease the lay faculty and, when­ever possible, to strengthen its personnel, and the part that the Liv­whose duty it should be t^ insure ing Endowment Fund should play in 100 per cent contributions from these important undertakings. I the members of the. Notre Dam: urged Notre Dame men to accept joy­Club of Los Angdes. It was mani­ously the part assigned • them, as a fest that President Dockweiler and continuing opportunity to help their his associates meant jnst what Alma Mater extend its influence, and they said. The Los Angeles Club broaden and deepen its opportunities will register a psrfect mark. to serva humanity. Country, and God. Three days later your national 

Mr. Joseph Scott, Sr., famous president reached San Francisco. Southern California lawyer and ora-Accompanying him were Former 
tor, . and a staunch Notre Dame • cf Northern Senator Bobert E. Proctor, Class of 1904, Elkhart, In­diana, and the Honorable M. O. Bums, Class of 18 8 6, Hamilton, Ohio. At the rail­way gate were Keene Fitzpatrick, president of the Notre Dame Club of Northern Calir fomia, and other devoted alumni, in­cluding several of Notre Dame's great athletes of former years—Ed. ("Slip") Madigan and Vincent Mc-Nally, now coach­ing at St. Mary's, andLaw^rence 
(Buck) Shaw, now coaching at Santa Clara. 
From the time of arrival, the visitors were in a Notre Dame at­mosphere, and spent many de­lightful and fruit­ful hours with Notre Dame men. 
The high spot of the week, from a Notre Dame view­point, was ths ban­quet tendered the visitors by the Notre Dame Club 
 California. 

adherent, responded. His talk was Place: William Taylor Hotel. shot through with a keen under­Attendance: Capacity. standing of the University's needs, Addresses: By graduates of and the obligations of Notre Dame classes from 1886 to 1930. men and non-alumni Catholics to aid Subject: Notre Dame—first, last the Univer.sity in attaining an even and always. higher ranking among leading .Ameri­Result: A strengthening of can educational institutions than the Notre Dame ties, and the pledges gratifying place which it now enjoys. of every individual present that 
The discussion became general. At the members of the Notre Dame its conclusion. President Dockweiler, Club of Northsm, California will on behalf of the Club, promised the early appointment of a committee 
(Continual on Patre 16) 

••••iittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiitiiiititii,iiaiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiitiiiitii)i*iiiMniiiiiH| 'g 
THE 3930 LAY RETREAT 

Manij Alumni Movfil Among This Throng 
LAY RETREAT GROWING 
Augu3t 7 to August 10 saw Ihs annual Lay Retreat at the University, ona of th3 greatest in this country and growingly popular. Men came from the East coast this year and the delegations from the cities of ths Alid-wsst grew. Rev. Richard CoUen­tlne, C.S.C, '09, was Jlaster of the Retreat. Rev. Thomas Kearney, C S.C., arranged the Retreat. 
PRESIDENT'S GREETING (Continued) 

contribute 100 per Cent to the Living Endowment Fund. 
Messrs. Burns, Proctor, and Bering spoke at length concerning Notre Dame, its history, its traditions, its achievements, its hopes for the future, and its faith in the men of Noti'e Dame. The value of Catholic educa­tion was stressed. The religious, pa­triotic, and educational contributions of Notre Dame were set forth. That the sentiments met with the approval of all present was manifest by fre­quent and heai-ty applause. 
Every Notre Dame man at the ban­quet was introduced. Many of them spoke briefly. The single theme was Notre Dams—pride in her glorious past, and confiJenee that the imme­diate future would be even more bril­liant. 
Dr. Joseph M. Toner, of San Fran­cisco,' a member of the County Board of Supenisors, presided. He was a gracious and experienced toastmaster. Among the speakers were the officers of the Club and San Franciscans of three generations who have attended Notre Dame. Stories, songs, bits of fine sentiment made this truly a Notre Dame night. * ­
The national president is convinced 

Whereas many men were undoubt­edly kept at desks this summer as._ they have never been confined before, on the other hand, their absence seemed to be compansated by an equal number who felt that -they needed faith in soemthing more than the Re­publican party. The preparations made were barely adequate to cover ^ the demand. 

 POPULAR 
The beautiful services followed the 

schedule that has made them so popu­
lar in years past. 
Fathers Kearnsy, Dolan and Duffy 

of the Holy Cross Mission Band 
assisted Father Collentine. Kev. Jo­
seph Boyle, C.S.C, whose missionai-y 
zeal has been so largely responsible 
for the development of the Retreat 
was a welcome attendant. 
CHESTERTON LECTURES OCT. 6—NOV. 15 
Sir Gilbert Keith Chesterton, one of the greatest champions of the Church, himself a convert, and one of the greatest of modern English writers, will deliver a six weeks' lecture course at Notre Dame, beginning Monday, October G and ending. Saturday, November 15. • " 
Mr. Chesterton's appearance at Notre Dame is significant of several developments. First of .all the Uni­versitj''s interest in securing a man with the world-heralded ability and fame of Mr. Chesterton speaks elo­quently of Notre Damn's desire to give her students the best that can be obtained. _ 
Of special significance to alumni is the fact that Mr. Chesterton's appear­ance here, which was brought about through a rather substantial outlay, was made possible by the gift of an alumnus of the amount necessary. 
This is a trade-mark era. Notre Dame men know that the faculty of the University contains men as bril­
the Notre Dame Club of Northern California has loyal and capable offi­cers, a membership of devoted Notre Dame alumni, and that the Club will keep its pledge to contribute TOO per cent to the Living" Endowment Fund. September is here. The college 
liant as men can be. But it is grati­fying to alumni to see the University in th; public eye through the unques­tionably prominent and popular per­sonage of Mr. Chesterton. 
Mr. Chesterton has a versatile pen, which, in one of its unlimited phases, must have conveyed some of the bril­liant Chestertonian thought to all of you. His defenses of Christianity and the Church are classics. His. poems have a marked distinctiveness that has brought him fame in that exclusive art. His detective story Style contains both ingenuity in thrills and amazing differences in character­ization. And his active journalism is perhaps his strongest liaison with his international public. 
Several other organizations have taken advantage of Mr. Chesterton's appearance on the Notre Dame faculty to secure lectures, so that alumni in sevei-al cities may have opportunity to hear him. 
year has begun. The woi-k to which wo have committed ourselves faces us daily. Let us not be found wanting. 
Loyally yours, 
FRANK E . HERING, 
President, Alumni Association of 
the University of Notre Dame 

1930 SujiJiER SESSION 

Its Principal Heat Was the Heat of Learned Debate 


SUCCESSFUL SUMMER SESSION 
A very successful summer session, 

the twelfth at Notre Dame, which 
opened on June 24, culminated on 
August 5 with the awarding of 133 
degrees—a new high record for the 
number of summer school graduates 
—by Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, 
C.S.C, president of the University. 
A Doctorate of Philosophy was 

conferred upon Sister Mary Aloysi 
Kiener, A.B., '22, .A..M., '23, the aunt 
of George Kiener, '28, Tom Kiener, 
'29, and John Kiener, '32. Sr. Aloysi's 
dissertation was: "John Henry New­
man,—the Romantic, the Friend, and 
the Spiritual Leader." The degree 
was awarded magna cum laiicle. 
Thirty-five M. --^.'s were bestowed aid seven Masters of Science degrees; fifty-nine A. B.'s.; thirteen Bachelors degrees in the sciences; five received the degree of Bachelor of .Architec­
PRESIDENT BRO.\DCASTING -•is the .A.LUMNUS goes to press Rev. Charies L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, is deliv­ering a very important and interest-ling series of talks on Catholic Educa­tion, during the Catholic Hour from the New York studios of the National Broadcasting Company. The address­es were scheduled for Sept. 7, 14, and 
21. The Hours, each Sunday evening, are sponsored by the National Council of Catholic Men. 
Leaders of the Church have spoken rn the Hour and the selection of Father O'Donnell to speak three suc­cess-ve Sundays on the vital issue of Catholic Education is a splendid trib­ute by the National Council to the academic prestige of Notre Dame and the scholarly attainments of the Pres­ident. 
Father O'Donnell intends to go to New York immediately before and re­turn after the broadcasts, so that his work at the University will not be noticeably affected. 
ture; the degree of Bachelor of Law^ was conferred upon one, and thirteen received degrees from the College of Commerce. 
The faculty, as usual, numbered the leading members of the regular. Uni­versity teaching staff and a brilliant group of visiting professors—twenty­si.\ in number. 
The Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, .A..B., '23, Ph.D., delivered the summer school Commencement ad­dress, stressing the fact that the noblest ideal of a Catholic university is the graduation of cultured men and women. Father Cavanaugh pointed out that culture implies proper devel­opment, moral, mental and physical. He praised the sacrifice of those who had Isft the ordinary pursuits of the world for the purpose of passing on this culture to the young. The orator 
H.4LL RECTORS -AND PREFECTS 1930-31 
B.A.DIN—Rector: Rev. F. Gassen­smith, CSJCT; Prefects: Rev. Paul Doherty, C.S.C, Rev. Heniy Bol­ger, CS.C 
BROWNSON—Rjctw: Bro. -Aidan, C.S.C; Prefects: Bro. .\loysius, C.S.C, Bro. Philip, C.S.C, Bro. Os-win, C.S.C. 
CARROLL—Rector: Bro. Maurilius, C.S.C; PrelicEF: Bro. Clement, C.S.C., Bro. Edward, C.S.C. 
CORBY — Rector:_ Rev. Dominic O'Malley, CrSIC; Prefects: Rev. Dominic Cannon, C.S.C, Rev. An­drew Schreyer, C.S.C 
FRESHMAN—RMtoiu, Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, CS^ ; Prefect: Rev. 
T. Kelley, C.S.C 

HOWARD—Rector: Rev. James Con­nerton, CSXT T Prefects: Rev. James H. McDonald, C.S.C; Rev. Patrick McVeigh, Mr. John Whit­man, Mr. Thomas Madden. 
pointed out that moral and mental training cannot be realized unless the doctrines of Christ in their integrity hold first place in the mind of the in­dividual. To accomplish this, he said, was the aim of Notre Dame. 
Father Cavanaugh declared that Cardinal Newman's definition of a gentleman had been widely misunder­stood. Rightly interpreted. Cardinal Newman declared that a gentleman was one who inflicts no pain what­soever on God by his life and inflicts no pain needlessly on his fellowmen. 
Congratulating the graduates, he reminded them that they would carry to their various walks of life what­ever good Notre Dame had been able to give them. He asked them to labor in the spirit of the just steward men­tioned in the gospel. 
LYONS—Rector: Rev. John Ryan, C.S.C; Prefects: Rev. Wm. Molony, C.S.C, Rev. James Kline, C.S.C, Rev. Conrad Hoffman. 
MORRISSEY—Rector: Rev. James Stack, CS.C;-Prefects: Rev. Jo­seph Heiser, C.S.C, Rev. John Rey­nolds, C.S.C., Rev. C F. Deady. 
SOPHOMORE—Rector: Rev. George Holderith, .C.S.'C.; Prefect: Rev. James Kehoe, C.S.C. 
SORIN—Rector: Rev. John Farley, CS.C; Prefects: Rev. Charles Do­remus, C.S.C; Kev. Peter Hebert, C.S.C; Rev. John O'Hara, C.S.C. 
WALSH—Rector.: Rev. James Ryan, C.S.C; Prefects: Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C, Rev. L. R. Ward, C.S.C. 
ST. EDWARD'S—Rector: Rev. Leo Heiser, C.S.C; "PrSects: Rev.. Francis Boland, C.S.C, Bro. Mar­tin, CS.C 
OFF-CAMPUS—Rev. Raymond Clan­cy, C.S.C, Director. 
Eagles National Convention Honors N, D, Men 
Robert Proctor, 'OA, Elected Ch-and Worthy President of Order Numbeiing 600,000 Members; Frank E. Uering, '98, Presented Bronze and Scroll. 
The annual Grand Aerie of the Fraternal Order of Eagles, held in San Francisco, August 11-18, was rich in Notre Dame • atmosphere. 
Eobert Proctor, '04, outstanding alumnus, who was Grand Worthy Vice-President of ths Order last year, 
w a s elevated to the presi­dency at the annual elec­tion. Bob has been active in the work of the Eagles ever since he began the practice of 
RoBEnT PROCTOR, '04 
1 a w in Elk-hai-t, Ind., and his many honors in the legal profession have been co-ordinate with honors in the fraternal organiza­tion. 
Frank E, Hering, '98, president of the Alumni Association, editor of the Eagle Magazine, a past Grand Worthy President of the Eagles, was signally honored for twenty-five years of sennce to the order. 
The Indiana -Aerie presented to Mr. Hering a beautiful, hand-illuminated parchment. The text of the scroll is an affidavit, artistically inscribed, re­citing the history of the events per­taining to the Mother's Day address made by Mr. Hering on February 7, 1904—the first address in which he urged a nation-wide memorial to Mothers. Pictures of Mr. Bering's mother, Mr. Hering, and the medal bestowed upon him by the American War Mothers last year, are repro­duced on the parchment. 
Following the presentation of the scroll by the Indiana Aerie, Michael 
0. Burns, '86, a former Worthy Grand President of the Order, on behalf of the entire Eagles membership, pre­santed to Mr. Hering a statue three feet high of Italian bronze, entitled "The Spirit of Achievement." The graceful figure, a runner in motion, expresses the vitality of achievement. 
Other talks were given praising the great work that Mr. Hering has done for the organization, notably a tribute from Conrad Mann, a very personal 

LIBRARY ASKS AID OF ALUMNI 
The University Library is in need of the following campus publications to complete the Library files. The aid of alumni will be appreciated. 
Bulleiins of the University of Notre Dame missing: Series 9, 1913-1914, No. 3, one copy; Series 10, 1914-1915, Nos. 1 and 3, two copies. No. 2, one copy; Series 11,1915-1916, Nos. 2 and 3, two copies; Series 12, 1916-1917, No. 2, one copy; Series 13, 1917-1918, No. 2, two copies; Series 14, 1918­1919, No. 2, two copies; Series 15, 1919-1920, No. 1, two copies. No. 3, one copy; Series 17, 1921-1922, No. 2, two copies. No. 3, one copy; Series 18, 1922-1923, No. 2, two copies; Scries 19, 1923-1924, No. 2, two copies. 
Notre Dame ScMastic—The Li­brary has no copy of volume 53, 1919­1920. We need an additional copy of the following: Volume 44, 1910-1911; Volume 52, 1918-1919; Volume 55, 1921-1922; Volume 56, 1922-1923; Volume 57, 1923-1924 (The Scholas­tic) ; Volume 59, 1926-1927 (needs only No. 24, April 1). 
Dome—One copy of 1915, 1921 and 1926. 
Notre Dame Alumnus—One copy of Volume 1,1923; Volume 2, 1923-1924; Volume 3, 1924-1925; Volume 4, 1925­1926; Volume 5, 1926-1927. (Note: Of Volume 3 we need one complete set, and also an additional copy of Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4.) 
Notre Dame Lawyer—One copy of Volume 1, 1925-1926; Volume 2, 1928­1927. 
Catalyzer—Of Volume 1, 1924, we need one copy of Nos. 2 and 3, and two copies of all the other issues. Of Volume 3, we need one copy of No. 1, October, 1925. 
N. C. E. A. MEETING 
-A number of our almuni were ac­tively identified with the annual meet­ing of the National Catholic Educa­tional Association which was held at New Orleans in June. Very Rev. James Bums, C.S.C., a charter mem­ber of the organization, was re­elected vice-president. 
Before the department of colleges, Eev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C, de­livered the paper on Catholic College opportunities in business education, and Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C, College of St. Thomas, presented the report of the committee appointed to study the equivalent of the Ph.D."de­gi-ee. 
friend of Mr. Her'ing, and an out­
itanding friend of the University. 
The work of the Eagles, largely directed through Mr. Hering, has be­come a factor in national affairs. Old Age Pensions, introduced and pro­moted by Mr. Hering through the or­ganization and through its magazine which he edits, are becoming increas­ingly important in the problems of the aged dependent. Thirteen states —^the latest New York—have adopted old age pension laws. Mr. Hering, in his office, has the thirteen pens with which the respective governors have signed these important bills. 
At the Indiana state convention and at the national convention this year, Mr. Hering has launched a new and even greater social movement, deal­ing with unemployment and the pos­sibilities of remedy through legisla­tion. The subject is of vital im­portance to the economic life of the country and the force of the hundreds of thousands of active members of Mr. Bering's organization will be most effective in pushing the cam­paign. 
"Future policy of the Catholic Peri­odical Index," was the title of a paper read by Rev. Paul Foik, C.S.C, St. Edward's U., before the library sec­tion. To the same section, Paul R. Byrne, University Librarian, present-ted a paper on "Dissertations in Our Graduate Schools." Rev. Michael Quinlan, CS-C, pastor of Sacred Heart Church, New Orleans, spoke to the parish school department on "The Ascetical Element in Religious In­struction." 
In the department of secondary schools Brother Aidan, C.S.C, rector of Brownson Hall, had a paper on "The Essential Objective in the Teaching of Mathematics," and Broth­er Ephrem, C.S.C, president of Holy Cross College, New Orleans, on "His­torv and the Study of the Constitu­tion." 
BOY GUIDANCE REUNION 
A. A. Kirk, '26, 37 S. Wabash Ave., Chicago, president of the Boy Guid­ance alumni, has announced a reunion of the graduates, former students, and present students of the Knights of Columbus Boy Life Course at the University, to be held in one of the South Bend hotels. Further details can be secured by writing Al at the above address. 

LIVING ENDOWMENT PROGRESSES 
iliiiiiiitiiiiii 
'Q 
WHEN DO WE EAT? 
The University Dining Halls, 
with a capacity of 2,300 persons 
at one sitting, will aid mate­
rially in feeding the great 
crowds during the football sea­
son. 
The cafeteria will be open as 
usual from 6:30 a. m. to 10:00 
p. m. A special dollar dinner will be sen-ed in the East Hall on 
the dfays of the games, from 12 to 2. 

E.. "fl 
THE WaY OF OUR PROBLE.MS 
In 1890 there were 157,000 students enrolled in American colleges. In 1900 the number had grown to 238,­000; in 1910 to 356,000; in 1915 to 405,000. Then came the entrance of the United States into the War. This tended temporarily to reduce regis­tration in collegiate subjects, but at the close of the war it rose again very rapidly until in 1928-29 it passed the million mark. To put this in an­other way, in 1890, 1% per cent of the young people of college age in the United States were enrolled in institutions of higher learning. By 1926 this had risen to 10 per cent. In five years (1922-1927) in 211 in­stitutions on the approved list of the Association of American Universities, the enrollment increased 25 per cent. In 42 of the larger institutions with an enrollment of more than 3,000 it increased during the same period 28 per cent. From 1890 to 1929 college registration increased 529 per cent. 
NOT TAKEN LIGHTLY We learn that 227 college and uni­versity, presidents on being questioned said that the alumni publication ranks second cnly to the newspaper as the most valuable medium for interpret­ing the university or college to the public. 
STUDENT PICTURES 

Another line has been formed dur­ing the 1930 registration—though we add with respectful admiration that former lines have been thinned out and speeded up through new methods. The new line reports one by one be­fore the camera where photographs are taken. These are to be pasted in the student athletic books so that the profitable disposition of student tick­ets, by those infrequent individuals who either do not care for the sport or who chance climbing a fence or sitting at a great distance, will be practically non-e.\istent. 
The Living Endowment Fund, launched officially on June 1, is doing perhaps as well as current economic conditions permit. 
improvement is possible. The chief aim of the Association this year is a complete representation of members, subordinating amounts contributed. To date, the results are the opposite. The total sum contributed is encour­aging, but it comes from only 348 contributors, only six p;r cent of the Association membership. 
Letters received in connection with the Fund have been uniformly and most encouragingly in favor of the plan and the officers trust that with the Fall and Winter, when ths Clubs bsgin their co-operative campaigns, the representation hoped for will be obtained. 
Three meetings held since the plan was announced—St. Joseph Valley, Los Angeles, and San Francisco, all 
NEW DISCIPLINARY HEAD After five years of very capable administration of the Department of Discipline of the University, Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, was re­lieved of the burdens of that impor­tant pest to build up his health, which last year showed some signs of weak­ening under the strain of the' office. Father O'Donnell had built up the de­partment so that its scope was far beyond the police powers implied in the title. While the hand of discipline rests heavily on the student shoulder, and the holder of the office is no com­petitor in a campus popularity con­test, Father O'Donnell brought about the phenomenon of making a great many friends among the students through the very exercise of his office. His interest in the wholesome activi­ties of the campus brought many ben­efits to various campus organizations that might otherwise have been slow­er in coming. 
The new prefect of discipline is 

Rev. Raymond Murch, C.S.C, '23. 
Father Murch received his B.S. in 
1923 and his M.S. in 1923. Last 
year he was an instructor in chemis­
try, and rector of Howard Hall. 
Father Murch has been very popu­

lar with the undergraduates and 
promises to be equally popular as the 
successor to Father O'Donnell in the 
very important disciplinary work of 
the University. 
CAPACITY ENROLL.MENT As the ALUMNUS goes to press, the registration is in full swing with several hundred applications rejected, all halls on the campus long since taken and day-dogs thronging the re­stricted areas looking for rooms. The enrollment is limited, as last year, despite the addition of new classrooms and faculty members. 
addressed by President Frank E. Her-ing—have pledged 100% support. 
Other Clubs should be working on the project now. Further details will gladly be furnished by the Alumni Office. 
Individual alumni, especially those outside Club territory, are urged to take stock of their finances, and to send in some contribution, no matter how large or small, so that we may, as soon as possible, and with mini­mum overhead, show Notre Dame that alumni are 100% behind the wonderful University expansion. 
It is interesting to note that Yale University, the first University to adopt a system of annual giving in 1890, a system which it still uses, reported at its Commencement that the gifts to Yale during the last year amounted to 523,<05,743.00. 
Your support attracts the support of others. 
TRAFFIC AND PARKING Traffic and parking for the games this Fall are not yet advanced enough for a detailed account and diagrams the ALUMNUS had hoped to carry. However, a great deal of paving has been done in the roads around the new stadium and traffic conditions will be much improved. Parking fields will also be adequate. To avoid the problem and difficulties of parking encountered in former years. Earl "Pete" Redden, the able and popular Catholic manager of Playland (for­merly Springbrcok) Park, South Bend, has been placed in charge of parking. The problem will be handled on a professional basis that promises to eliminate most of the old difficulties and give a maximum of comfort and protection to these who drive to Notre Dame for the game^. The University is making special arrangements with South Bend and other sources to have adequate polic­ing of the grounds, so that all traffic and other problems originating in a crowd can be handled with the great­est efficiency. Diagrams for traffic, and other in­formation of importance will be en­clcsed with tickets sent out for the games. This information is vital in the efficient and pleasant handling of the capacity crowds. Alumni, partic­ularly, are urged to familiarize them­selves with these details and to as­sist wherever possible in making this first year a success from the stand­point of giving the public a good im­pression of Notre Dame. 
ALUMNUS NOMINATED 
Ivan Le Blanc, LL.B. '29, a late no­

tice says, has been nominated for the 
office of Prosecutor of Alpena County. 
Ivan has been practicing law, with 
obvious success, in the city of Alpena. 
0 a 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
Q.... 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ALBANY, N. Y. 
C. C. Brumleve of Schenectady won a clock golf tournament staged by members of the Club of the Cap­ital District, June 7, at the Mac­Gregor Country Club, Saratoga. The tournament was a feature of the an­nual outing of the Club. Brumleve's low score was 47 made on a par 37 course. 
Other contestants were: John Hue­ther, John Smith, Tom Farley, Chris Connelly, Thomas DoUard, Joseph Carey, Marcellus Kirchner, Stephen Durban, Elmo Moyer, Gene Galda­bini, J. W. Forbing, Ward H. Leahey, John Meehan and F. J. Ott. 
Activities of the Club were sus­pended during the summer months, according to John Forbing, Secretarj', and will be resumed early in Septem­ber with a Stag Dinner at the Van Curler Hotel in Schenectady. At this time plans will be discussed for the coming year. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO 
A long letter from Paul HoefTler furnishes us with our copy for this report. " 'Bud' Krieg, '29 passed through and told 'Hank' Burns, cur truly Tilden man, all about it. Bud was on his way home—Indianapolis, after visiting the Falls on the Cana­dian side. 
"Louis Obligato, also of '29, once upon a time a resident of Newark, 
N. J., is working here for the Lipton Tea Company. I understand he has his money on the "Shamrock." 
"Two weeks ago one of the biggest men in the Class of '2.5 hauled me out of bed. Charles R. Stanhope, late of Kenosha, Wisconsin, came to Buffalo, got lost and needed directions around. Stan is now one of the coming vice-presidents of Cellophane, a Dupont branch. He is quite the executive— slightly bald, glasses, advancement of the. waist — but still the same old "Stan." We hope to see him again SDon. In the afternoon. Just as we were lea\'ing to show off the Falls and Fort Niagara, who should pop up but our old friend "Herm" Centlivre and the Missus, so the family re­union was complete. "Herm" is now one of the big shots in Campbell-Ewald and is making Buffalo his headquarters with an apartment on the Avenue. 
"Another coming vice - president (only this chap will be in the banking business) George Schaefer, was a student at Notre Dame in '28, and who was bom and raised at 390 
•iiiiiiiiitaitii 
Tacoma, Buffalo. I just found him 
the other day. Will see more of him 
later. 
"Biff Lee has just returned from 
"Rock's" coaching school and is now 
set to put his U. of Buffalo men out 
in front. They are taking on Car­
negie Tech, Fordham, and others, but 
"Biff" is all set to get them down. 
More power to him. 
"Marty Ryan is working over time for Goodyear Tire. Business rushing and all of that. (His girls miss him terribly.) Haven't seen "Tom" Kenny in years. He and Bill Feeley are getting Henry Ford all set up in Buf­falo. - Dredging and working on the new Ford plant. 
"Ed Lutz and Al Boehm, our golf champs, are knocking them dead. They would rather play golf than work—^but' then, who wouldn't. 
"Fred Pralatowski took a vacation this year; put it down in the book be­cause Fred verj' seldom ever quits for even a day. 
"Well, Jim. I nearly forgot some of our main.visitors. Rev. James Stack, C.S.C., and Paul Dooley came here about a month ago. Father Stack has spent a year at Harvard. He is now a "Harvard boy." Paul is still the same old kid. 
"We are having a dinner dance on the Lake Shore, Wednesday, Sept. 10, for the new boys going out to Notre Dame, those who are students there now, and those who went there once upon a time." 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO 
The Chicago Club has spent a very quiet summer, comparatively speak­ing. 
A Golf Tournament was sponsored by the Club on July 24. at St. An­drew's Golf Cli'b. near West Chicago. About fcrty members swung the clubs and enjoyed a delightful repast. John 
C. Bulger, '26 won the cup. The af­fair was under the direction of Ed­ward W. Gould. Another similar af­fair was planned for the first part of September. 
The regular weekly luncheon meet­ings were held every Friday noon in the Ivory Room of Mandel Brother's Store. These luncheons will be con­tinued during the year. 
The Club has been kept busy get­ting plans under way for September, and forming plans for a big celebra­tion after the Army Game, November 
29. Nothing definite has been decided upon as yet. More details in the October ALUMNUS. 
-a 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE C.A.LUMET DISTRICT New officers of the Calumet Dis­trict Club are: John J. Wallace, Cal­umet City, President; Dr. J. A. Mc­Carthy, Whiting, VicePresident; Paul Benante, East Chicago, Treasurer; and Francis D. Meyer, Lansing, Sec­retary. "The Club entertained July 25, at Vogel's Fish House, Hammond, at which meeting the Living Endowment was discussed thoroughly, and the members pledged their individual sup­port of the Living Endowment Fund." This from the new Secretary. A letter from Dr. J. A. McCarthy, the Vice President says: "Last night, (Sept. 5) we feted the Freshmen and the other students attending Notre Dame at a little dinner at one of our well known fish houses here. There was a good representation of the Cal­umet Club. Who .should walk into the restaurant but Frank Hayes and Dr. Jack Delph, both of Chicago. Of course we introduced them to the boys and made them give a little talk. It went over big." 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND The Cleveland Club has announced a new schedule for the regular weekly meetings. Every Monday noon lunch­eon at the HoUenden Hotel. The first luncheon meeting was announced as September S. All Notre Dame alumni and students were invited. The only meeting held during the summer seascn was the annual Golf Pilgrimage. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAWATHAL.4ND 
A recent letter from Gerald Cleary, Secretary, promises us a detailed re­port of the Club's proposed activities for the coming year. Watch the October ALUMNUS! 
NOTRE D.A.ME CLUB OP INDIANAPOLIS 
The only word from the Indianap­olis group that we have received was a letter from Bob Worth. Bob re­ported a very successful golf tourna­ment in July and mentioned a chicken dinner and minature golf tournament early in September. You may e.\pect a detailed report in the next issue from some member of the capital city. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF KENTUCKY At the last monthly meeting, the Club chose the Army game for the annual football trip. Frank Bloemer 

v/as appointed Chairman of the Foot­ball Committee, and he has made 100 resei-vations for the game. 
According to H. R. Dempf, Secre­tary, the plans for the coming year indicate essentially a continuance of the activities of the past, namely: dinners, dance.s, smokers, etc. Mr. John Buschmeyer is Chairman of the Entertainment Committee. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOS ANGELES 

A recent letter from Al D. Schmitt advises the ALUMNUS that the reg­ular Wednesday noon luncheons have been replaced with periodical dinner meetings, held usually every month or so. 
On August 5, the Club had the pleasure of presenting Frank E. Ber­ing, South Bend, Ind. President of the National Alumni Association; Hon. Michael Burns, of Hamilton, Ohio; and Robert Proctor, Elkhart, Indiana at a luncheon held at the University Club, Los Angeles. Mr. Joseph Scott, 
LL. D. 1915, was present at the lunch­eon meeting. 
With Notre Dame playing Southern California in Decembei-, the Club should enjoy one of its most active seasons. (See Mr. Bering's letter, page 15.) 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JERSEY New officers for the New Jersey Club! Bert E. Daniels, president; Eugene F. Gilligan, vice-president; James T. Quinn, treasurer, and Jo­seph Nulty, secretary. The regular meeting night is the same as in the past few years—first Monday of the month, Newark Ath­letic Club, 7:30 p. ni. A letter from R. J. Purcell states that the New Jersey Club will official­ly open the "season" with a dinner on September 8. A longer report will appear in the October issue of the ALUMNUS. A letter from Joe Nulty says: "At an informal gathering the other night at which Tom Farrell, Bert Daniels, Jim Quinn, Art Lea Mond and my­self were present, the machinery for the coming year was sst in motion. "Jersey is more proud of its lead among the alumni Clubs throughout the nation and we'll fight to main­tain that lead. You surely gave us something to do though for we want to make just as good a showing in the Living- Endowment Fund. Sort of jealous of our position, so we are urging all members by personal calls and letters to give till it hurts. If we find out from your bulletins that we are slipping we'll have to call out the Marines in our organization to go to work on the deinquent members. "During the past few months sev­eral of our members became bene­dicts, among whom were Frank Mil­
bauer, Eddie Duggan and Archie Dun­can. Rumor has it that Art Monaco and Eddie Burke are next in line. Notable among the old line bachelors are Art Lea Mond, Pete DuPay, Tom Farrell, Nick Carter and Bob Shields. 
"Our first formal meeting will be held Monday evening, Sept. 8, in the form of an annual banquet to which all prospective freshmen from this State are invited. This also marks the initial meeting of the year. Close­ly following this comes an event in our Club life that I believe is unique among all Notre Dame Clubs and that is our Third Annual Retreat to be held at Loyola Retreat House in Mor­ristown, the week-end of Sept. 12. If you know of any N. D. men who will be in this vicinity on that week­end I wish you would pass the word along to them that they are welcome and can make their reservation through Joseph M. Byrne, Chairman of the Committee or myself and we shall be only too glad to have them with us. 
"Now that the Army mule is to be skinned in Chicago we'U'have to take our peek at the 1930 edition of Rock­ne's Ramblers at Franklin Field, Phil­adelphia. I believe that the Quaker City will see a bigger crowd on Nov. S than ever before despite the Sesqui and the Tunney-Dempsey fight. The demand for tickets has not reached Army proportions as yet but when the first autumn breeze blows it un­doubtedly will. 
"I hope to be able to give you a de­tailed account of all our gatherings this year and with this in mind, I will close with fondest personal regards. 
Joe Nulty." 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK 

The following account is from Eddie Byrne, Secretary of the New York Club: 
"The Notre Dame Club of the City of New York has had a very hot, but enjoyable summer. It staged its first social function of the year in the New York Athletic Club, 59th Street and Seventh Avenue, on the night of August 5, when more than one hun­dred members gathered to swim, dine and 'talk about old times.' The even­ing was generally acclaimed one of the most successful in the annals of the organization. 
"Meeting in the lobby of the club, immediately after business, the mem­bers proceeded directly to the Athletic Club's spacious swimming pool. Water was splashed in a reckless fashion for two hours as old grads took 'jack­knives' off the board and practiced their 'crawl' technique. 
"The dinner, unique that it .met with popular approval, was devouried with apparent satisfaction while ex­hausted waiters made an effort to 
appease the ravenous appetites of the 'swimming grads.' 
"Hugh A. O'Donnell, president of the club, introduced the various mem­bers and read an expressive telegram from Father John F. O'Hara at Notre Dame. 'The Times Man,' together with John E. Kenney, chairman of the Entertainment committee, were en­thusiastically landed for the success ­of the occasion. 
"At this writing our friend Knute Rockne is in town and a party was arranged for him. Our club sponsored a luncheon at the Hotel Commodore, Sept. 6. Seventy members of the club attended. William Walsh, of Yonkgrs, was the principal speaker. Every Notre Dame man is glad to know Rock is back again after a long, pain­ful siege of illness. We welcome him to New York. 
"Plans are speedily being completed for our sports events for the Fall. We are having t^vo opportunities to see Notre Dame play this season. The The game at Notre Dame with the Navy for the dedication of the new stadium. This, we hope, will be a wonderful scene for those of us who return to the Golden Dome. The Pennsylvania railroad has arranged for a special train at reduced rates to this game. 
"Our only Atlantic seaboard game will be with the University of Penn­sylvania at Philadelphia, to be played November 8. This is the first time we have played the Red and Blue in football. The Pennsylvania railroad is also running special trains from New York to Philadelphia for this game. 
"The secretary has application blanks which will be forwarded to all graduates in New York City for this game. No tickets will be available so these blanks will be the only means of securing tickets for our friends. This Club extends to the University, faculty and student body its kindest regards and sincere wishes for the . school year of 1930-31." 
The Office is also in receipt August 1, of Volume 1, Number 1, of The Bulletin of the Notre Dame Club of New York. This Bulletin, which will be issued periodically during the year by the Public Relations Committee, 
J. Q. Adams, chairman, Franklyn Doan, James Hayes, Chas. Donahue, and John McMahon, will tell the mem­bers of the club the news of the club, activities and plans and significant events that happen at Notre Dame. 
Two Governor's Meetings were held during the summer. One on June 23rd and the second on July 22. Ac­cording to the Bulletin "The Gover­nors took off their coats and loosened their collars, rolled up their sleeves and perspired freely over plans and proposals for the Club's doings from now till Christmas. It was indeed ad­
ministration under difficulties and on the two hottest days of the summer." The members of the Club will prob­ably be interested to learn that Club dues have been reduced, since the new-Constitution and By-Laws provided that the Cub year 1930 should extend from May 1 to December 31. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTH­ERN CALIFORNIA 

The Club held two meetings during the Summer. The first was on August 8, in honor of Frank E. Hering. This meeting was held in the William Tay­lor Hotsl. According to Keene Fitz­patrick, "^Ve had a splendid dinner and fine turn-out of about thirty-two members and guests. Dr. J. M. Toner acted as chairman. (Dr. Toner is associate campaign manager for Mayor Rolph who has just received the Republican nomination for Gover­nor.) The speakers of the evening were Robert E. Proctor of Elkhart, who that day was elected national president of the Eagles; Michael 0. Burns, of Hamilton, Ohio, and Elmer 
E. Peak. .A.Iso Father F. Whalen, president of St. Ignatius College. Others who spoke briefly were 'Slip' Madigan, 'Buck' Shaw, and Vincent McNally; the final talk was very ably given by Frank E. Hering." 
The second meeting was held at 

noon at the Clift Hotel. This meet­
ing was held to decide on the date 
and place of future meetings for the 
coming year. 
The Club started the year with th3 

proverbial bang. Included in the plans 
are: 
"Establishmsnt of the local or­

ganization on a sound and workable 
basis for all the Notre Dame men in 
these parts. An organization which 
will serve both Notre Dame and its 
graduates and old students. 
"Cooperate with President Hering by having Northern California repre­sented 100% in the Living Endow­ment campaign by June of next year. 
"Special radio luncheons are i)emg planned for the important football games during the coming season. They will likely be held at the Elk's Club at Noon on October 11, 18 and 25, and on November 8, 22 and 29. 
"A new charter with new rules and by-laws will be adopted sometime dur­ing the year." (See page 15.) 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADELPHIA 

-•ilumni in and around Philadelphia will have an opportunity to see Notre Dame in action when the boys meet 
U. of Pennsylvania at Philadelphia, November 8. The Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia is using this event as the nucleus for Club activities this Fall. The Club is making elaborate preparations for a dance to be given the night of November 8. The place 
has not yet been announced, but John 
J. Kelly, secretary-treasurer of the Club, promises "one of the best ball­rooms in the city." Alumni and Notre Dame students who will be in Phila­delphia for the Penn game will be glad to learn of this Club event, given for the pleasure of the city's guests. The October ALUMNUS will, carry all the details of the affair. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER 

Gerry Morsches, one of Rochester's leading lights, paid the Alumni Office a short visit this summer. Unfortu­nately, the Secretary was on an alleged vacation, but according to the "home guard" Gerry reports that the Rochester Club is still functioning after an unusually hot summer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JOSEPH VALLEY Club activities, in the greater field that has always been envisioned, are beginning to materialize in the logical location—the St. Joseph Valley, the very Notre Dame campus. The Uni­versity and a vei-y able group of Club officers are uniting efforts that have already exceeded any previous Local Club responsibility and achievement. Outstanding as evidence of the Uni­versity's confidence in the ability of the organization is the official naming of the Club as the Reception Com­mittee for the dedication exercises and the throng of psople coming to South Bend in conjunction with the Na\'y game. Primarj' among the Club's accept­ance of this honor is its announce­ment of a great Ciiic Campaign, en­listing every possible vacant room in South Bend for the accommodation— at reasonable rate3—of the visitors to the city at that time, and also at the other games during the Fall. De­tails of this service are not yst avail­able, but headquarters is already established in the Oliver Hotel, through the co-operation of the Hotel and the Rotary Club of South Bend. Rooms will be listed at this central );oint and made conveniently available for guests from out of the city. Hotels are already turning away applicants, and the estimate of sur­plus crowds to be housed runs into the thousands. The Club is meeting with the finest support from the va­rious South Bend organizations. In addition to this prospect for a large Fall—which includes the giant civic testimonial banquet to Knute K. Rockne and the teams when the sea­son is over—Liring Endowment was launched first in the St. Joseph Valley. An account of the launching follows: The University of Notre Dame in its world-wide aspect as a factor in the economic scheme and a defender of American liberty and institutions 
was the picture presented Monday night, June 30, by Frank E. Hering to a gathering of Notre Dame alumni as he championed the plan to create a li\'ing endowment for the Uni­versity. 

Mr. Hering, who was r-ecently elect­ed president of the national Notre Dame Alumni Association, was the chief speaker at a dinenr given by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Jo­seph Valley in the Turkish room of the Oliver Hotel. 
-Along the speakers' table where Dudley M. Shively, president of the club, presided as master of ceremon­ies sat such notables as the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, former president of the University, and distinguished as a speaker and educator; the Rev. 
J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, prefect of discipline at the Univex-sity; Knute K. Rockne, director of Notre Dame ath­letics; John B. Kennedy, the associate editor of Collier's Weelcli/ magazine, George L. O'Brien, president of the O'Brien Varnish Co., and prominent in other business and civic affairs; Bernard VoU, of the Sibley Machine Co., and M. A. Donahue, of the In­diana-Michigan Electric Co. 
Throughout the audience were many others well known in the busi­ness and professional life of the city. 
Mr. Hering's talk was not only a plea for a united alumni behind the living endowment project, but a strong and eloquent appeal for the presentation of Notre Dame's academ­ic needs for expansion to the entire nation. 
Looking down through a perspec­tive of 30 years of intimate contact with Notre Dame; years that saw him in the role of football captain, coach and later a teacher, the man honored as the founder of Mother's Day char­acterized the Notre Dame living en­dowment project as the power behind the human element in American life as opposed to both the forces of dollar worshippers and the cynics and radi­cals. 
He declared that he saw in the project the means whereby the academic forces of Notre Dame could be better equipped to turn out men of character and ambition with a fixed purpose in life to contribute to the best of American citizenship, the stabilizing of economics, and the pres­ervation of the family. 
With- the pitch of his eloquence ris­ing, Mr. Hering said he believed that the social order in this counti-y was endangered more and more each year by the breaking down of the family unit. In this connection, he declared that Catholic teachings in the pres­ervation of the family; the balanced social order, the loyalty of citizenship, and the maintenance of American liberty would exert a tremendous force in modem life toward a return to normal conditions. 
Bsfore Mr. Bering had discussed the place of Catholic education in American life, Mr. Kennedy of Col­liers' Weekly sounded, the keynote of the gathering with his announcement that Coach Eockne had been engaged to write a series of weakly football articles for Colliers' during the fall because he represented to a large pub­lic all that was typical of fine, clean spDrtsmanship. 
Eockne, himself, making his first public appearance since his illness of last fall and winter, urged the alumni to make a success of the living en­dowment project because it meant so much to the building of the lay faculty at Notre Dame. 
The spirit of giving became so manifest at the gathering that Father Cavanaugh declared he would make a contribution. He made one before he finished speaking. He drew the line between sentiment and sentimentality wi;h such rare feeling and quality that President Hering said later no one could tastefully try to repeat it or improve upon it. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF 
ST. LOUIS 

A recent letter fi-om Dr. Daniel L. Se.\ton, Secetary of the St. Louis Club, informs us that the Club is planning & meeting early in Septem­ber, after a very quiet summer. -Ar­rangements are to be completed for the Club to attend the Navy game on October H. 
NOTRE D-A.ME CLUB OF SYRA­CUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK 
Following is a letter from Emil C. Schonlau, President of the Svracuse Club: 
"The annual golf tournament was held at the Skanateles Country Club on June 25. The attendance was a reccrd one. The score after the al­lowances for handicaps was found to be practically a dead heat. At the 19th hole a motion was made to play off the tie in September. -A.t the din­ner following, the motion was duly recorded and carried. The date of play off will be set on September 10. .A.t this meeting a Secretary will either be appointed or elected to fill the chair left vacant by the resigna­tion of Wm. S. Cate on August 28. 
"Regular luncheon meetings are held on the second Wednesday of each month at SchraflFts. The Club has al­so decided upon the following activi-, ties for the coming year: -\ttendance at the Pennsylvania game; Christmas Vacation dance; Ladies Night. This by no means overlooks the payment of alumni dues by all members and subscription to the Living Endow­ment Fund." 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF 
THE WABASH VALLEY 

Governor and Mrs. Harry G. Leslie of Lafayette, Ind., attended the mid­summer dance of the Wabash Valley Notre Dame dub at Fairview Gar­dens, Lake Manitau, recently. The af­fair, which was one of the most at­tractive of the season and probably the best ever held by the Notre Dame club, was attended by nearly 200 couples from this district. The com­mittee in charge was composed of Bud Kammerer, Bud Tuberty, Charles Medland and Paul Bott. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EAST­
ERN PENNSYLVANIA 

The following will be of interest to alumni in the Eastern part of Penn­sylvania: 
"During the course of a party given Lehigh Valley Alumni of Notre Dame at the Valley Green Inn, near Slat­ington, by John L. Nanovic Thursday evening, July 12, plans for the organ­ization of the Eastern Pennsylvania Alumni Club of Notre Dame got under way. 
"Leo R. Mclntyre, president of the East Penn Campus club and Mr. Nan­ovic, a resident of Palmerton and editor of the Notre Dame Juggler, were appointed a committee to con­tinue the work of getting the alumni in this section organized." 
We hope to have the pleasure of listing the official announcement of the Notre Dame Club of Eastern Pennsvlvania in the October ALUM­NUS. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WEST­
ERN PENNSYLVANIA 

A letter from George H. Ivingsley, Jr., Secretary of the Pittsburgh Club informs us that the Club is planning a very active Season. Weekly lunch­eon meetings at Gimbel's will be con­tinued. These luncheon meetings have been very popular with the members and the Club is looking forward to another successful year. Plans are also being completed for the Club ac­tivities during the week-end of Octo­ber 25. This being the date of the Notre Dame-Pitt game. The Pitt game will undoubtedly attract a large Notre Dame crowd and alumni from all parts of the country -will be in Pittsburgh for the week-end. The Club promises us details later. Watch the October ALUMNUS! 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGSTOWN 

"The Youngstown Club, which has been meeting monthly since spring, held a successful semi-private dance Friday night, July 18, at Wickliife Manorhouse, just outside Youngstown. "Captain Criss and His Mates"— otherwise the orchestra directed by George Krispinsky, '27, played. In spite of the fact that the night was 
the hottest so far this summer, the attendance was very good, and every­body seemed to have a big time. John Moran was chairman of the dance committee. 
For the summer, the student mem­bers of the Youngstown Club of Notre Dame have joined forces with the alumni and former students. The groups are holding joint dinner meet­ings, and the July meeting attracted the largest attendance since the local club was revived. 
The club met again Aug. 4. Plans were expected to be announced then for an outing at the end of the month." 
NOTKE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET 
A recent letter from Ed King says that the Club is coming along fine at Joliet. With the departure of Brother Lawrence Joseph to Kansas City, Mo., the Club has lost one of its foremost members. Before he left he was guest of honor at a banqust at Wood­ruff Inn. Quoting from Ed King's letter: "The evening was spent in a shack down the river and everybody had a fine time. We presented Broth­er Lawrence Jossph with a desk set with his name engraved on each pen." 
Plans were being made by the Club for a get-together meeting before the students from the Club district re­turned to Notre Dame. This meeting was to have been a buffet luncheon and smoker. We will look for a de­tailed account in the October ALUM­NUS. 
HOUSING CA.MPAIGN 

The Civic Housing Campaign, by which the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley plans to accommo­date thousands of the University's guests during the football season, was launched in the South Bend news­papers this month. 
The Club, through the co-operation of South Bend civic organizations and the newspapers, has appealed to all the home-owners of the city to aid in supplying housing facilities for the great crowd of people who will wish to stay in South Bend on Friday and Saturday nights and who cannot be accommodated in the limited hotel space of South Bend and surrounding cities. 
Alumni wishing to reserve rooms for any home games, for one or two nights may do so by applying to the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, 212 Oliver Hotel, South Bend, Ind. Tel. No. 3-9413. 


=THE ALUMNI 
Births 

HAROLD MADDEN, '15, wrote from Wyoming, Ohio, that among his problems were five future N. D. and St. Mary's students, the youngest not yet three weeks old—^that was July 22. 
A seven-pound boy was born June 12 to Mr. and Mrs. AL SCOTT, '22, and has been named Joseph Scott after his distinguished grand-dad. 
VINCE BROWN, '23, Buffalo, told one of the Buffalo boys that it was 
O. K. to announce the arrival during the summer of the second boy, Ber­nard John. The informer added that the baby was fine and the cigars fair. 
AARON HUGUENARD, '23, is among the members of that progres­sive Class to join the 1923 Summer Paternity Club, a popular organiza­tion. Aaron contributed a future Chief Justice. 
PAUL CASTNER, '23, is the sec­ond South Bend member of the same organization, a Castner son having brought another good left foot to the attention of K. K. Rockne. Paul will be Studebaker's authority from now on in the matter of free wheeling. 
JOHNNY MONTAGUE, '23, as al­ways, is very much in the i-unning. Joan Catherine arrived on August 28, the third birthday of her big sister. 
Heir 5IAYL! In fact the second. Born to Gene and Mrs. Mayl, '24, in Daj^ton on June 21. 
Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD LIVER­GOOD, '25, are the parents of a daughter. Bernie is in Chicago, but with the new baby the first grand­child on either side of the family, his commuting to Stonington will prob­ably be regular. He is directing the young lady's attention toward N. D. 
Mr. and Mrs. VINCENT "TUBBY" HARRINGTON left the ALUMNUS in the dark for four months while they enjoyed Catherine Tim them­selves. Tubby is already anticipating a Knute Harrington. 
Mr. and Mrs. VICTOR YAWMAN, '26, Rochester, N. Y., also came under the class of negligent parents as far as sharing Joan with the ALUMNUS is concerned. Several months elapsed without any announcement. 
FRANK CELEBREZZE, '25, as­sistant prosecutor in R-AY MILLER'S jurisdiction, also announces the sec­ond son, arriving during thesummer. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM DOOLEY, '26, Hammond, Ind., brought Charles Teri-y Doolej' into the public utilities field on June 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. RYAN, Pittsburgh, are the parents of Sheila Ann Ryan, born August 3. 
HERB and Margaret JONES, '27, who have the University Golf Course for the front yard playground of their home are making the most of it. The new playmate for daughter Jane -Ann is son James Royal, born Sept. 4. 
A letter from Youngstown states: Tuesday, July 8, was Notre Dame day in Youngstown. W.A.LTER VAHEY, '27, and CHARLES GRAVES, '26, waited together in the halls of St. Elizabeth's hospital. At noon Mr. Vahey was called'to greet Miss Mar­garet Theresa Vahey as she got her first glimpse of the world. Some hours later, Mr. Gi-aves welcomed Miss Joan Jacquellyn Graves. 
ED and Mrs. McClarnon, .'28, De­troit, Mich., are parents of Helen Mai-y McClarnon, boi-n June 30. 
LOUIS BUCKLEY — don't be alarmed—returned from a trip North to report that Mr. and Mrs. STAN­LEY GRINAGER, '28, have added a unit of charm and beauty to the pop­ulation of Fergus Falls. 
I 
Deaths 

(Note: At Commencement a num­ber of alumni suggested some method of notification of the death of alumni so that close friends might know in time to attend the funeral or send some expression. The only practica­ble way that occurs to the Editor is the following: if an alumnus wishes to be notified of the death of a Class­mate or particular friend, a list of such_ names will be kept in the Office with instructions to telegraph collect news of a death received immediately, or write if it is too late for any other action. Many times the Office does not learn of a death until after the funeral.) 
As the years pass and the alumni list increases, the number of names under the heading Deaths grows larger. Space is inadequate and de­"H 
tails too difficult to assemble ac­curately in a short time, to give de­sen-ed notice to many deceased alum­ni. The ALUMNUS asks the patience and charity of readers in its efforts to cover the e.\panding alumni field. 
As the list increases, it includes too often the names of those who have been by-words in alumni circles, names to inspire men of later years. Fortunately, death, as Notre Dame interprets it, is not so much an end as a beginning. And life, as Notre Dame alumni are taught to live it, is a preparation for greater things. In the names that follow, the ALUM­NUS sees a group that, to an un­usual degree, lived life as Notre Dame urged them to live it. So that, despite the great loss, from immedi­ate considerations, to their families and to Notre Dame and Notre Dame men, the element of grief in record­ing their deaths is greatly tempered by a confidence in their eternal re­wards. 
Just as this section was ready for the press the ALUMNUS received the very regrettable news of the death of WILLIAM T. JOHNSON, A.B., '68, -A.M., '70, the oldest living graduate on the records. Mr. Johnson died in Kansas City on September 11. 
RICHARD T. "DICK" O'CONNOR, a student at Notre Dame in '73, died in St Paul, Minn., on August 11. Mr. O'Connor had been in ill health for several years. He was one of the great figures in national political circles, being considered one of the "big four" of the Democratic party. 
Mr. O'Connor was bom in St. Paul, June 21, 1857. At the age of 19 he was named deputv citv clerk of St. Paul. 
'Students of the University of Notre 'Dame, former as well as present, lost 
one of their best friends in the death, 
on June 14, of Brother Alphonsus, 
C.S.C., '84, for 30 years rector of 
Brownson Hall, one of the oldest of 
the student dormitories. Brother Al­
phonsus died in St. Joseph Sanitarium 
at Dearborn, Mich., of a heart attack 
following a ner\-ous breakdown. 
Brother Alphonsus came to Notre 

Dame in 1884 as Paul A. Sweet. He 
was bom in Washington, D. C, on 
April 10, 1872. He is survived by his 
mother and a brother, George, both 
residents of Alhambra, California. 
Brother Alphonsus divided his at­

tention between the boys and the 
birds at Notre Dame. To the boys he 
gave advice and help, particularly in his capacity as a member of the board of discipline at the University. But it was as a student of biitls that Brother Alphonsus established himself as one of the leading ornithologists of the country. He took up this study as a form of recreation, but it soon be­came a passion with him. He wrote many articles for the Midland Nat­uralist, a scientific monthly published at Notre Dame. He was one of the earliest advocates for bird sanctuaries in Indiana, and it was through his ef­forts that the whole ai-ea in which the University is the center was made such a preserve. 
Brother Alphonsus also was con­sidered an authority on Newman, and taught a class on this subject at the University. 
Funei-al services were held June 17 in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, and conducted by his superior for the last four years, Eev. William 
R. Connor, C.S.C. 
A telegram from San Antonio, Tex­as, from Joseph A. Menger, gives the regrettable announcement of the death of COL. JOSEPH CUSACK. Col. Cusack was the quarterback on the famous football team of 1SS7, the first team to represent Notre Dame in college competition. 
For the past several years Col. Cusack has been in poor health. He was transferred to Texas from Fort Hayes, Columbus, 0., in 1928. Col. Cusack died on Sept. 4 at the Station Hospital, Fort Sam Houston. He is sur\-ived bv his widow. 
WILLLAM P. McPHEE, B.S., '90, M.S., '9-5, died veiy suddenly at the home of his sister in Denver, Colo., on August 13. Mr. McPhee had been in poor health for several years but there was no immediate concern among his friends. He suffered a stroke of paralysis on the evening of the 13th and died two hours later. 
Mr. McPhee was known to every alumnus of Notre Dame. He was national president of the Alumni As­sociation in 1925-26, a member of the first football team, and was interested in every activity of the University. He was known throughout Denver and the state for his activities in civic and relicious organizations. 
Ml-. McPhee was nresident of the McPhee and McGinnity Lumber Co., and several other lumber companies in the west and southwest. His wife, Mrs. Jessica Cranmer McPhee, died last .Tanaiirv. He is sur\'ived by a son. John McPhee, a daughter. Willa-main, four s'sters and two brothers. 
M'-. McPhpe was the type of man a universitv likes to oroduce. He had one of the finest nrivate libraries in Denver. He was active in educational affairs there, in philanthropy, and in all the branches of the Church. 
Mr. McPhee was bom in 1872. the SOP of nioneer residents of Denver. REV. J. H. GUENDI.ING. nromi­net priest of Lafayette, Ind., who re-\ 
ceived an honorary Doctorate of Laws from Notre Dame in 1914, died on July 22. Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, attended Father Guendling's funeral. FRANCIS O'SHAUGHNESSY, '00, 
LL.D. '29, died suddenly at his home in Chicago on July 28. The death came as a shock to his family, most of whom were away from home at the time, and to the host of friends that Frank's life had won for him in the various circles that claimed his activity. A prominent lawyer, his death was keenly regretted by the Chicago bar. 
Notre Dame probably loses more in the death of Frank O'Shaughnessy than any other group or agency out­side his ouTi family. Loses more e.x­cept for this — men like Frank O'­Shaughnessy leave behind them mem­ories of ideals and achievements that are more precious monuments than fortunes or statues of stone. Frank O'Shaughnessy's name may fade in future generations of Notre Dame men, but he, and men like him, live on in glory as Notre Dame men, those images that inspire and guide students at the school that Frank O'Shaughnessy loved so well, images that keep alive at that school things that are withering elsewhere. 
Frank O'Shaughnessy was exem­plary in his Notre Dame connections, with which we are concerned, from the time of his registration, a fine boy from Missouri. With ability and character that brought him leader­ship in the face of an admirable mod­esty, Frank was soon an outstanding character on the campus. He was manager of the football team in 1897-98, was the first manager of basketball in the same year, and also of baseball. 
In 1929 came the culmination of Frank O'Shaughnessy's alumni life, from the material standpoint. As so often during his thirty years as an alumnus, it represented a service to Notre Dame, made at a sacrifice of time and effort for him, but done willingly, done eagerly, and done out­standingly well. He delivere<l the Commencement Address to the Class of 1929. 
In that address was contained all of the culture, all of the beauty, all of the ability and integrity that made Frank O'Shaughnessy a man among splendid men. One paragraph of that address explained much of the con­stant devotion of Frank O'Shaughn­essy to Notre Dame and every activ­ity connected with Notre Dame: 
"Notre Dame is to me a very dear place. I look upon it as the flower of a saint's vision." 
Rev. M. J. Walsh, C.S.C, celebrated the Requiem Mass on Aug. 1. Eev. C. 
L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, preached a beau­iful sermon. 
In the death of BROTHER MAT­THEW, CS.C, LittB. '17, M_\. '28. 
the Congregation of Holy Cross mourns the passing of a brilliant and exemplary son, and the University of Notre Dame a respected and devoted alumnus. 
Brother Matthew was bom in Ire­land in 1893. In his early teens he came to America with his parents, who settled in Fort Dcdge, Iowa. He entered the Brotherhood of Holy Cross in 1909. In 1917 he was grad­uated with the Diamond Jubilee Class.' The same year he was appointed teacher at Holy Cross College, New Orleans, of which he was president from 1922-1925. He recaived the de­gree of A.M. in 1927. During recent, years Brother Matthew was assistant superior at Dujarie Institute, the Brothers' House of Studies here, and a teacher at Holy Cress Seminary. At the annual convention of the National Catholic Educational Asso­ciation, 1928, he read an excellent paper on "The Scientific Approach to the Understanding and Measurement of Character." Brother Matthew con­tribute<l to the ".Ave Maria" "Catholic School Interests," and other periodi­cals. In the summer session of 1929 he gave a course on "The Principles and Technique of Teaching." His death, which took place at Holy Cross Sanatarium, Deming, New Mexico,' September 2, followed an illness of several months. 
He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Neeson, Fort Dodge, a brother, and several sisters, one of whom is Sister Emeliana, superior of Lourdes School, Colusa, California. To his family the ALUMNUS offers condolences in their bereavement. May his precious soul rest in peace. 
A notice addressed to RUDOLPH GEOGHEG.AN, 200 N. State St, Salt Lake City, Utah, brought back word that Mr. Geoghegan, as student in 1919-29, died last June. There were no other details. 
-A report from Vicksburg, Miss., brings the news of the death there in June of M. M. MELSHEIMEE, a stu­dent from '23 to '26 who was forced to leave school through ill health. Apparent recovery was followed by a fatal relapse. 
WILBUR KINGSEED, B.S. in E.E. '29, whose home was Fostoria, Ohio, was drowned in the Huron River, -Ann Arbor, Mich., in June. Wilbur was taking graduate work at the U. of Michigan, specializing in aeronautical engineering. 
The ALUMNUS e.\presses the sympathy of the Association to rela­tives and friends of the above alumni. Sympathy is also extende<l to WIL­LIAM MclNERNY, '01, whose daugh­ter, Dorothea, died in South Bend on July 15; and to WILLIAM FOOHEY, '26, whose sister, Sr. M. Virginia of the Sisters of Providence, died June 20 at St. Mary-of-the-Woods, Ind. 
Marriages 

Mrs. Nettie Gilbert, South Bend, was married to PROFESSOR JAMES 
F. HINES, '09, also of South Bend on Saturday, Sept. 6. Professor Hines is a member of the history depart­ment at Notre Dame. Professor and Mrs. Hines will make their home at 305 Peashway, South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Prosper J. Hoeffler announce the marriage of their daughter Rhoda Mar\' to Mr. ED­WARD J. BAKER, '23, on Saturday, July 15, in Buffalo, New York. James Baker brother of the groom (a stu­dent manager at Notre Dame) was best man. 
After sei'eral months travel Mr. and Mrs. Baker will take up their residence in Boston, Mass. 
Mr. and Mrs. John Feeley of Chica­go announce the marriage of their daughter, Katherine Marie, to THOM­AS P. RYAN, '23, on July 8, in the Church of St. Thomas the Apostle, Chicago. Miss Charlotte Feeley, sis­ter of the bride ser\'e<I as maid of honor and THOMAS McNICHOLAS, '29, was the best man. A wedding breakfast was served at the Shore-land Hotel. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ryan left immediately for a lake trip to Charlevoi.^ and will be at home at 823 E. 55th St., Chi­cago. 
Word has been received of the mar­riage of JOHN JOSEPH ICANE, JR., '25, to Miss Margaret Esther Quinlan, on Saturday, August 13, in Meadville, Pa. 
Mr. EDWARD LAWRENCE DUG­GAN, '26, of South Orange, N. J. was married to Miss Mona Hopper, June 24, in Flushing, Long Island, N. Y. 
Mr. Gerald Meng announces the marriage of his sister Marv Amelia to Mr. MATTHEW ALOYSiUS NO­LAN, '26, on Tuseday, August 26, at Saint Marj''s Church, Pontiac, 111. 
A wedding of interest to the alumni is that of BERT V. DUNNE, '26, who was married to Miss Marian Gallivan, of Salt Lake City, Utah. The wed>;ing was solemnized in the Star of the Sea Church in San Francisco, July 30, and was followed by a wedding breakfast in the home of Mrs. Mario Gabellini, cousin of the bride. 
Mrs. Dunne attended Dominican College in San Rafael, California and at the time of her marriage was on the staff of the Salt Lake City Trib­une. She is the niece of the late Thomas Keams, United States Sen­ator from Utah. 
Mr. and Mrs. Dunne are at home at 4224 Prescott, -4pt. 4, Dallas, Tex­as. Mr. Dunne is employed in the new office opened in Dallas by the Campbell-Ewald Company. 
Miss Mary Hoffman of Vandergrift, 

Pa., was rnarried to Mr. JOSEPH 
BREIG, '28 on July 17, in Vandergrift. 
Mr. Breig is Editor of the Vander­

grift News. 
Word comes from R. A. Deninger, '29 that Mr. and Mrs. LESTER CAR­RIG, '28, Columbus, Neb., are plan­ning their home. Les was married to Miss Catherine Speice on June 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Reddington announce the marriage of their daugh­ter Mary Claire to Mr. ROBERT HENRY STOEPLER, '28 on Wednes­day, June 18, at Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. Stoepler are at home at 2465 Detroit Ave., Toledo, Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frederic Provost an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­ter, Marjorie Jeanne, to Mr. AN­DREW CHARLES POWERS, Jr., '28, on Thursday, July 10, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. Mr. Power's sister was the maid of honor and Mr. THOMAS McNICHOLAS, 29, was best man. Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, '90, performed the ceremony. The wedding was followed by a break­fast in the Oliver Hotel, South Bend. 
Miss Bernadette Lavin became the bride of Mr. THOMAS J. GRIFFIN, '29 on July 17, in St. Ignatius Church, Chicago. Mr. and Mrs. Griffin are residing in Chicago. 
Miss Mary Hoover, Chicago, was married to Mr. JOHN HARRING­TON, '29, of Indianapolis, Indiana on Saturday, Sept. 6, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Ind. Miss Helen Hoover, sister of the bride, was the maid of honor and Mr. PAUL HARRING­TON, '26, sen,'ed as his brother's best man. 
Mr. and Mrs. Harrington intend to make their home in Chicago. 
On June 17, Miss Marcella Archer became the bride of Mr. PETER BURIvHART, '29. The ceremony was performed by Rev. Francis J. Wen­ninger, C.S.C, '11, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. Miss Madelyn Archer was her sister's only attendant and Mr. CHARLES KAPLAN, '30, was best man. 
At an impressive ceremony on Sept. 3 in St. Augustine's Church, Austin, Minn., Miss Winifred Hartsock. of Austin, became the bride of Mr. WIL­LIAM SHANLEY, '30. Miss Kather­ine Langan, of St. Paul, cousin of the bride was maid of honor and Mr. 
DUNNING SHANLEY, e.x.'28. served his brother as best man. The cere­mony was followed by a wedding breakfast for forty guests in the home of the bride's parents. 
Mrs. Shanley is a graduate of St. Catherine's College, St. Paul, and for the past two years had been em­ployed in the University Library, Notre Dame. Mr. and Mrs. Shanley are residing in Chicago. 
Miss Ann Strlekar and Mr. DANTE PACIOTTI, '29, were married on Sept. 3, in Eveleth, Minn. Mr. and Mrs. Paciotti are at home in Eveleth. 
Miss Marjorie Bell, daughter of James A. Bell, Elkhart, Ind., became the bride of Mr. RAYMOND DOYLE SANDUSKY, '30, on June 4, in Elk­hart. 
Following the ceremony a luncheon was sen'ed to twenty guests in the Empire Room of the Hotel Elkhart. Mr. and Mrs. Sandusky left immedi­ately on a wedding trip to Washing­ton, D. C, Atlantic Citj', New York and parts in Canada, and are at home at 1048 E. Jackson Blvd., Elkhart. 
Engagements 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Bernard Neu­wald announce the engagement of their daughter, Helen, to Mr. EUS­TACE CULLINAN, JR., '25. 
Anouncement is made of the engagement of Miss Adlora Maze to Mr. ARTHUR SULLIVAN, '27. The wedding will take place October S. 
•­
Personals 
Before 1880 

A fine letter from HENRY NEW­MARK, '78, reports: Have only re­turned from my trip to Europe (July 14). I am pleased to note that you had a grand Comemncement week and that the Living Endowment Fund has become a fact. It is too bad that 
N. D. alumni are not as rich as those of some other schools, but if all do their duty we shall succeed neverthe­less. I was shocked to read about the death of our good friend MARK FOOTE. .. . I was with you in . spirit on Universal Notre Dame Night and celebrated by sending the local Club (Cleveland) a cable from my birthplace (Nuremberg), where I had celebrated my 70th birthday two days before. .. . Do you ever hear any­thing from JUDGE SCANLAN in Chicago? Have not heard from him in two years. . . . Will be with you next June. Fraternal greetings. 
1880-1885 Prof. Robert M. Anderson, '83, Circle-ville, OhiOb Secretary 
The Class Secretary, who retired last June from the faculty of Stevens Institute of Technology after a bril­liant career there, and is living in his old home town, Circleville, 0., was made Professor Emeritus of the New Jersey institution recently according 
to the reliable New York Times. 
1886 

Jlichael 0. Burns, 388 S. Second St„ 
Hamilton, Ohio. 

The Editor had the misfortune to miss one of the verv rare personal risits of HON. THOMAS J. SHERI­DAN of San Francisco, who visited the -\lumni Office in -August. Mr. Sheridan, however, had a private re­union with the Provincial, VERY REV. JAMES A. BURNS, C.S.C, '88. 
1887 
Hon. Warren A. Cartier, 
Ludin$!ton, Mich. 

The Class Secretary's name will be on thousands of lips this Fall with the abandonment of the Old Cartier Field by the varsity football teams and the dedication of the new Stadi­um. The old field, however, is to be put to excellent use as you will see when you attend the games. 
1888 

John L. Heineman, Connersville, Ind. 
VERY REV. JAMES A. BURNS, C.S.C, Provincial, of the Congregation of Holy Cross, spent his usual busy summer arranging the personnel of the Order for the current year. 
1889 

Members of the Class will read in the Death notices with deep regret of the death in Te.-cas of COL. J. E. CUSACK. 
1890-1893 

Louis P. Chute, T University Ave., Minneapolis, iMinn. CLARENCE A. T. HAGERTY, 
B.S. '90, was a visitor at Notre Dame this summer for the first time in a number of years. Prof. Hagerty is teaching mathematics in John Carroll University, Cleveland, and was on his way to St. Louis, Mo., for a summer visit. 
The death of WILLIAM P. Mc-PHEE, '90, (see Deaths) vnW be a great shock tohis Classmates. 
The Editor has recently moved to the neighborhood of LOUIS J. HER­MAN, '91, and sees that gentleman pursuing the legal profession ivith exemplary calm and always pleasant mien. 
DUDLEY SHIVELY, '92, president of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, is one of the Editor's frequent contacts. When Dudley calls or is called, it means work for the one of us which gets the draw. But the Editor has the advantage in being 
E 
Illliil M ••tiiMMMIIIDii >Q 
Local Alumni Club Meetings 
I Send Notice of Meetings of Clubs Not Listed to I I Alumni Secretary, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana, | 
= CLEVELAND: Mondays—year round luncheon mee'.ings. HoUsnien i I Hotel. • I 
I NEW YORK CITY:. Thursdays—luncheon meetings—Fraternity Club, \ I 22 East 38th Street. | 
i CHICAGO: Fridays, 12:00—luncheon meetings—Ivory Room, Mandel's. | 
j DETROIT: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—12:30—Frontenac Inn, 42 | 1 Monroe Avenue. | 
i PITTSBURGH: Thursdays—12:15—Gimbel's Dining Room, 6th Avenue | I and Smithfield Street. I 
I LOS ANGELES: Dinner meeting each month—call officers for details. | 
j CINCINNATI: First and third Tuesdays of each month—12:15 noon— | I Broadway Hotel. i 
I NEW JERSEY: Monthly meeting—7:30 p. m.—First Monday—New-| i ark Athletic Club. | 
I INTER-MOUNTAIN: Monthly luncheon—First Tuesday—University | j Club, Salt Lake City, Utah. 1 
I KENTUCKY: Generally the second Tuesday of each month—different | I locations. Call H. R. Dempf, 400 M. E. Gaylor Bldg., Louisville. I 
I WABASH VALLEY: Four times yearly—January, April, October, | i December—Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Indiana. Call H. R. Kamp, | I 1207 Wells Street. | 
I ST. JOSEPH VALLEY: Monthly luncheon meeting—Last Monday. I 
i Call Dudley Shively, Associates Bldg., South Bend. | 
i DES MOINES: Monthly meeting—no regular date. Call Carleton Beh. i 
I JOLIET: Monthly meeting—First Tuesday. Call Edward King, 301 | I Ruby Street, for details. | i NORTHERN CALIFORNIA: Monthly luncheon—first Tuesday—noon | 
i —Grill Room, Fairmount Hotel, San Francisco. | 
1 FORT WAYNE: Monthly dinner—no definite date. Call John W. | I Eggeman, president, or Thomas McKienum, seeretaiy. | 
I ROCHESTER: First and third Wednesdays—12:15—Chamber of Com-| 
I merce Private Dining Room. | 

I SYRACUSE: Monthly luncheon—second Wedneadsy, 12:15—Sehimffs-| 
lllilll>IUIUIIIIIIIItll)llllltlilUIMMIiUII*"IIUMtnitnilMlMIU tttlMIIIU »MHtHttHllltllMI»IMg 
able to count on Dudley absolutely. 
JIM HENLEY'S ('93) Square Deal newspaper chain — Jackson, Battle Creek and Lansing — was working overtime this summer during the labor crisis, and Jim was among the absent at the Lay Retreat, one of his annual pilgrimages to Notre Dame as a rule. 
1894 
Hugh A. O'Donncll, The New York 
Times, New York City. 
The Class Secretary, in his dual capacity a.s president of the Notre Dame Club of New York, has been spending a busy summer with the ac­tive organization, but activity has al­ways been in Hugh's field and the Club development reflects it. 
1895 Eustace Cullinan, Sr., 860 Phelan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 
A postcard seeking the whereabouts of FRANK J. ONZON was addressed to the Postmaster at Corpus Christi, Texas. The card came back with the answer to the statement, "If dead, etc." "He has been dead for a number of years but won't acknowledge it." Which, like Mark Twain's retort, is fairly convincing as evidence of life. 
189S William P. Burns, 327 Willard Ave., Jlichigan City, Ind. 
The GALEN-WALSH senatorial battle in Montana is arousing the country. ALBERT J. G.ALEN, for­mer member of the Montana Supreme Court, is battling the famous THOM­AS J. WALSH, LL.D. '17, present incumbent on the issue of the success of the Hoover administration as such. Judge Galen being the Republican party's champion, of course. Senator Walsh is also a very dry candidate and Judge Galen is interpreted as representing a more liberal attitude. 
1897 
Rev. John JIacNamara, 16 Elm St., Garden City, L. I., N. Y. 
Ths Class Secretary, the Editor re­grets to announce, is once more forced to retire to the St. Joseph's Mineral Baths, Mt. Clemens, Mich., though from Father Mac's reports of the care the good Sisters there give him, these occasional retreats do him good in more than just health. 
1898 
F. Henry Wurzer, 1632 Buhl Bldg., Detroit, Michigan. 
WILLIAM F. MONTAVON, di­rector of the legal department of the National Catholic Welfare Confer­ence, has had another busy summer. He made another trip to Mexico which has resulted in a number of splendid articles from the N. C. W. C. on the present religious status of that coun­try, and Mr. Montavon also addressed the famous Institute of Politics at Williams College, Williamstown, Mass., during the open conference on Caribbean problems. 
1899 
Dr. Joseph F. Dunne, 418 Jeiferson Bldg., Peoria, Illinois. 
REV. THOJLAS STEINER, C.S.C, has been the director of relations be­tween the Congregation of Holy Cross, the University administration and the million dollars worth of build­ing done this summer. He has become an unfamiliar figure on the campus unless accompanied by rolls of blue­prints, a staff of engineers and a corps of salesmen. 
1900 

Death claimed an outstanding mem­ber of the Class in FR.ANK O'SHAUGHNESSY (see deaths). Class Secretary. JOHN W. EGGE­M.AN, notified of Frank's death, by the Alumni Office, went to Chicago from Fort Wayne to attend the funeral. 
1901 
Joseph J. Sullivan, No. 1300, 139 N. Clark St., Chicago, Illinois 

Membeis of the Class will sympa­thize with WILLIAM A. McINERNY, whose daughter, Dorothea, died on July 14. 
1902 
Peter P. .^IcEIIigott, 320 W. 23rd St.. 
New York City. 

REV. LEO HEISER, C.S.C, re­turns to Notre Dame this year to be­come Rector of St. Edward's Hall. 
1903 
Francis P.Burke, 904 Trust Co. Bldg, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
K. K. ROCKNE and J. ARTHUR HALEY, on a business trip East, re­ported a vei-y pleasant luncheon with JOHN NEESON in Philadelphia. John and his fellow citizens will be kept busy with the responsibility of the only Eastern seaboard football game for N. D. this year. 
1904 
Robert Proctor, Monger Bldg., 
Elkhart, Ind. 
The honors heaped on BOB PROC­TOR, reprinted elsewhere in this issue, make pleasant reading for the Class. 
1905 
Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. La Salle St., 
Chicago, Illinois. 
The WORDEN Realty Co., John and his associates, are now handling the development of University Heights, the sub-division opened just south of the campus off Notre Dame Avenue. 
1906 
Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen Bldg., Spokane, Wash. 
The honorary degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred in June by De Paul University, Chicago, upon REV. CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C. 
1907 
T. Paul .McGannon, 36 W. 44 th St., New York City. 
REV. WILLIAM BOLGER, C.S.C, was one of the valued and familiar visiting professors at the Summer Session. 
1908 
Frank X. Cull, Bulkley Bldg„ 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
REV. JOSEPH J. BOYLE, C.S.C, was back this summer long enough to meet many friends he made in con­nection with his earlier work with the Lay Retreat. The success of the Re­treat must have bene gi-atifying to Father Boyle. 
1909 
E. P. Cleary, P. O. Box 3.56, Momence, Illinois. 
P.AUL R. MARTIN was awarded the degree of Master of Arts in Soci­ology by Loyola University at the graduating exercises of that institu­tion on June 11. Paul's thesis was "The Place of the Third Order of St. Francis in the Program of Catholic Social Action." 
1910 
Rev. yi. L. .Aloriart.v, 537 Beall Ave., Wooster, Ohio. 
The Class Secretary was on the Summer School faculty to the edifica­tion of the students in his classes and the surrounding golf links, but not the immediate betterment of the Class notes. . Perhaps when the Wooster problems are solved— 
1911 Fred L. Steers, 1666 First Nat'l. Bank Bldg., Chicago, Illinois. 
HON. JAMES E. DEERY left the legal entanglements of the City of Indianapolis — and Indianapolis can entangle—to gain spiritual and physi­cal refreshment from the Lay Retreat. 
The Editor had the pleasure recent­ly of a short visit with FRED STEERS at one of the Chicago Club's luncheons, of which Fred is the able chairman. 
1912 
Edmund H. Savord, Box 133, Sandusky, Ohio. 
REV. CHRISTOPHER BROOKS, C.S.C, w^ho had such a harrowing ex­perience with one of the ferocious Bengal Tigers last year, is stationed at the Foreign Mission headquarters in Washington this year. 
The Alumni Office, through the co­operation of the alumni, has kept Treasurer WALTER DUNCAN un­usually busy during the summer. 
JAY LEE was out for coaching school to get some dope for his U. of Buffalo team this fall. 

••••tiiaatiiiit>i)tiiil2| 
Now i?i its third year 

THE CATHOLIC BOOK CLUB 
Selects each month the best Catholic book and distributes it on the very day of publica­tion to subscribers, at an important reduction of cost. Fiction, biography, essays, history, make up the selections—^there are no devo­tional bocks. Their interest and literary standard is equal to that of any books published today. Their philosophy and influence, however, ^\^ll be Catholic. 
Join the Catholic Book Club, and to your this day of subversive literature, you will not door, twelve times a year, will be delivered be afraid for the younger members of your that volume which the distinguished editoi-s family to read. of the Catholic Book Club consider the best book of the month. Think how much you would have enjoyed 
to have, on publication date, such books as These editors are: John L. Belford, D. D., 
Wyndam Lewis'. King Spider; James B. Con­
Myles Connolly, James M. Gillis, C. S. P., 
nolly's Gloucestennen; Hollis' The Monstrous Kathleen Norris, Wilfrid Parsons, S. J., Dr. 
Regiment; Maynard's De Soto and the Con-
James J. Walsh, and Michael Williams. 
qiiistadores; May's Life of Cardinal New­man .. . to name just a few of the fine
These critical literary authorities survey books that subscribers, received at an average for you the entire field of curi-ent books, and saving of one-third the bookseller's price. 
choose one book a month that is equal to any non-Catholic book, in its general appeal and literary merit. But its logic and interpreta­Join now! and help the Catholic Book Club tion will be Catholic. This monthly service in its efforts to find more readers for better is the nucleus for a Catholic library of books Catholic books and more books for adult, which you will want to read, and which, in cultured readers. 
A subscription costs $25 a year .. . or only ?2 a book for books that sell at the stores from $2 to $5. If you prefer, you may pay in installments of $4 a month, in which case the subscription costs ?28. 
CATHOLIC BOOK CLUB, INC., 
"Please accept the enclosed check for membership 
461 EIGHTH A\'ENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y. in the Catholic Book Club, which I recommend most 
[ ] For $25 enclosed enter my subscription for one 
heartily. It is the most direct way of encouraging year (12 books). 
our Catholic writers to better work. Heretofore the [ ] For $4 enter my subscription. I promise to pay only stimulation they received was criticism often 
§4 a month for six more months for a total of of a most discouraging character. Your project 
12 books. 

should have the largest measure of success." Name 
(Signed) JOHN J. DUNN, V. G., Auxiliary Bishop of New York. Address State-
City 

illllitllttiilllltiltiiDtii M..Q 
B" 
- John fiaiKoci Seria ­
YOUR ESTATE 
today and tomorrow 
You naturally 
expect your present estate will grow considerably be­fore it is turned over to your heirs and dependents. Why not guarantee that growth, with life insurance? You can create any desired estate today with a John Hancock policy. 
INQUIRY BUREAU 197 Ctarendon St., Boston. Mass. 
Please send booldet. "This Mat­ter of Success." 

1913 James R. Devitt, 921 Engineers BIdg., Cleveland, Ohio. 
A few ticket applications from CONGRESSMAN BILL GRANFIELD indicate that the intricacies of tariff and rivers and harbors will not stand too much in the way of attendance at one or two of the Fall games. 
1914 Frank H. Hayes, Union Bank of Chicago, Chicago, III. 

The Editor stopped for a minute recently with FR.4NIC HAYES, whose vice-presidency of the Union Bank of Chicago and work as head of its trust department doesn't keep him from taking a very close and constant in­terest in the Living Endowment plan which he was so instrumental in working out. 
1915 James E. Sanford, 8312 Kenwood Ave., Chicago, III. 

REV. JOHN M.A.RGR.AF, C.S.C, is stationed for the current year at Columbia U., Portland, Ore. 
1916 

T. P. Galvin, 708 First Trust BIdg., Hammond, Indiana. 
The members of the Class of 1916 \vill learn with regret of the death of Mr. P. G. Bradbury of Robinson, 111., which occurred on July 31, 1930. Mr. Bradbury was the father of WILLIAM 
E. BRADBURY, LL.B. '16, and J. STANLEY BRADBURY, LL.B. '23. Mr. Bradbury was in his eighty-third year at the time of his death and was a pioneer settler in Illinois. He was admitted to the bar July 4, 1876 and continued in the active practice until the time of his death. His sons have been associated with him in the pro­fession since their graduation from Notre Dame. The deceased Mr. Brad-bur}' had attained and held a position of distinction in his community for many years, having been an elder in the Presbyterian Church at Robinson for more than forty years, a director in the First National Bank of that city for a like period and a member of the Masonic Fraternity for sixty-t(vo years. Mr. Bradbury was a true friend of Notre Dame and the sym­pathy of all of the alumni, particular­ly those who had the privilege of as­sociation with his sons during their college years, is extended to his sons. 
1917 

John U. Riley, 244 Washington St., Boston, Massachusetts. 
BERN.A.RD VOLL, one of the most active members of the N. D. Club of the St. Joseph Valley, is enjoying an enforced vacation through ill health. Bemie had his tonsils removed re­cently, and is going East for a rest. He is coming along nicely, the ALUMNUS is pleased to report. 
1918 

John A. Lemmer, 1110 Eighth .Ave., 
Escanaba, Michigan. 

BERNARD HEFFERNAN paid one of his infrequent visits to the campus while the Editor was away. Bernard divides his time between In­diana and Washinston, D. C. 
1919 
Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce St., 
Gary, Indiana. 

PAUL FENLON, professor of English, had a busy summer as head of the English department, a very popular department in all its branches with the Summer School attendants. 
1920 
Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black BIdg., Los -Angeles, Calif. 

M. EDWARD DORAN is promi­nent in the South Bend news of the day with the various and many activi­ties of the Board of Works of which he is president. 
A much widened highway has made the Niles road, which passes FRANK FARRINGTON'S bungalow near the State Line, a speedway. However it offers Frank a quicker and safer com­muting strip to the News-Times and less lawn to water and mow. 
REV. FR.ANCIS GOODALL, C. S. C, has been made Vicar-General of India in the foreign mission activities there. 
1921 
Alden J. Cusick, :1 Park Avenue, 
New York City, Secretary 

The new address: of the Class Sec­retary is about as far as the ALUM­NUS can go with dope on Al's change of residence. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 1023 .Monroe .Ave., Rochester, N. Y. 

WILFRED RILEY was made edi­tor of Billboard, well-known theatrical weekly, during the summer. He has been with the magazine for several years. 
REV. GEORGE SCOTT is curate at the exclusive parish of St. Brendan in Los -Angeles, Calif. 
1923 

Paul Castner, 805 N. Lafayette Blvd, 
South Bend, Ind. 

Papa PAUL CASTNER (see Births) is an even more prominent man about South Bend since that event. 
CLETUS LYNCH ^\'as in the Office on one of his trips through this territory. Clete still likes the loca­tion. 
.ART SHEA was in for a -i-isit this month. Art is with the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. in Indianapolis after a number of years of travel in Europe and South America. BOB SHEA, -Art's brother, Rhodes Scholar from Notre Dame, is back practicing law in New York City after seven years in foreign parts. More later. 
1924 
James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave., 
New York City. 

-A sslf-abasing letter from the Class Secretary causes the Editor to make the promise of a bigger and better year for the '24 column. 
DICK GILFOYLE dropped a note from Boston. Dick says he bumps into KELLETT quite a bit and met TED ROURKE and LEO MA­CAULEY at a ball game during the summer. Dick is with Stone & Web­ster. 
PINK O'BOYLE, who is located with the Ohio Bell in Dayton, says he is enjoying it very much. Notre Dame, he writes, ranks high with the company. GENE MAYL is a family man. Pink writes. BILL CAVA­NAUGH is the banner-carrier in Day­ton society. RED SHEA sticks close to the law. Pink will be up in the Fall. 
JIM MEEHAN spent a hot sum­mer in the locomotive industry at Erie. TOM BARBER is going big there as an associate of State Sena­tor Miles M. Kitts of Erie. JOHNNY WEIBEL is an interne in a Pitts­burgh hospital after completing his medical course in June. 
1925 

John W. Scallan, Pullman Co., 79 W. 
Adams St, Chicago, III. 

A card from JOHN NOPPEN­BERGER during the summer re­vealed the dope that Noppy under­went a serious operation after Com­mencement from which, however, he was convalescing at the time he wrote. 
DON AIGNER sent in the news that he and RAY PAULI took a two weeks' motor trip through Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin. They visited PAUL KOHOUT, who, with two daughters and Mrs. Kohout, is pursuing the florist's trade. They also stopped with VINCE and Mrs. SCHUH in Mt. Clemens, and with GEORGE SHEEHE in Detroit. Don expects to be out for the Navy game. 
JOHN ANTHONY HARTLEY was a welcome though brief guest of the Alumni Office on his way back to New York after his first visit to Montana in seven years. The wild west had not erased the broadway smile from the Bartley face, and it was with re­gret that the Editor had a flock o£ ohter guests the same day to distract the visit. 
GERALD J. A. HOLLAND, roto­gravure editor of the South Bend News-Times, paid his first visit to the City of New York during the summer just past. Holland's reaction is best expressed in an old war term. But JIM HAYES' association couldn't use ii anyway, so we'll leave it for Erich Remarque. 
1926 
Gerald W. Hayes, Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co., Evanston, III. 
A letter from BERNARD WIN­

GERTER gives a lot of dope of in­
terest—while HAYES is on vacation. 
."As you know, JIM STACK is still here at St. Vincent's. Since his re­turn from the West he has been promoted to House Physician. At the beginning of the year he is going over to Belle\'ue. TOM FARRELL is back from his vacation after one helluva good time and adding five pounds to his avoirdupois. We are expecting JERRY HAYES the last of the sum­mer. See JAKE PURCELL quite often. BOB SHIELDS has just merited a well-earned promotion. DINK HENNESSY and HAYES FULLER were in town on a hurried tour of the East. 
1927 

Ed DeClerq, Secretary 8126 Drexel Blvd., Chicago, HI. None other than W. H. MURPHY of 10,515 S. Hamilton Ave., Chicago, sends in the news that DICK NOVAK finished a successful year at George Washington U., Washington, D. C ; that H. G. (JERRY) LE STRANGE is selling advertising for Nature Magazine, a Curtis publication; and that he has heard that JIM QUAL­LEY has been made an officer of both the Hotels LaSalle in South Bend and the Fort Armstrong over in Illinois. WALTER WELLESLEY (BRICK) SMITH, the star in St. Louis Star, sends words of greeting. Brick, who travels considerably, writes that he has seen FRENCHY DOHOGNE, DAN CUNNINGHAM and a few 
others . HERB EGGERT and JIM 
MAHER were in St. Louis; RAY 
FL.4NAGAN, the journalist, was 
there in the Spring; RAY Mc-
GRATH, BOB HOWLAND and FIR­
MIN FUSZ, natives, completed his 
roster. 
AB HENRY was a campus visitor this summer on his way from Ham­mand to Elkhart in the interests of a personal injury case. 
At the commencement of Western 

Reserve University on June 12, the 
following N. D. alumni received de­
grees: CLAYTON GEORGE LE­
ROUX, '27; PAUL JOHN BRADY, 
'27; CHARLES ANTHONY MOO­
NEY, Jr., '26; JAMES JOSEPH 
MORAN, '27; MARTIN AUGUST 
RINI, '28; BERNARD EARL ZIP­
PERER, '28, Bachelor of Laws; 
GEORGE HUGO PAFF, '27, Master 
of Arts in histology and embryology. 
MARK NEVILSJias been trans­

ferred from Kalamazoo to Cleveland, 
changing from divisional traffic di­
rector to public relations with the 
Thompson Air Lines. 
VINCE McNALLY is coaching this fall at St. Mary's, Calif., under the famous E. P. SLIP MADIGAN, '20. Vinee left a high school coach­ing job. Central Philadelphia, for the western offer. 
BILL HEARN writes from Long Island, where he is Notre Dame-izing a neighborhood. He wants this in­sert: Bill Hearn would like to hear from JOHN EMMETT SULLIVAN, 
E.E. '27, EDWARD F. McCLAR-NON, LL.B. '28, and ARTHUR K. SULLIVAN, LL.B. '27. My address is 12-28 148th St., Whitestone, L. I. 
1928 
Louis Buckley, Notre Dame, Ind., Secretary. 

I no sooner arrived back on the campus when our hard hearted Alum­ni Secretary put me to work writing up the '28 column. A vacation in the Northwest enlightened me to some extent on the doings of our class­mates in that section. I arrived in Fergus Falls in time to help STAN­LEY GRINAGER celebrate the ar­rival of a baby girl. Stan is with the Northern Woolen Co, in Fergus Falls, Minn. His brother EMMETT '25, is with the same company. He is mar­ried also and sends his best regards to all the '25 men. I found DENNY DALY in Frazee, Minn., getting rea­dy to return to the St. Paul College of Law to finish up his law work. BILL KIRWAN is with Montgomery Ward Co. in St. Cloud. I found them all eager to hear about the '28 fel­lows. 
ELMER WYNNE, '28, has joined "Chile" WALSH '28. on the coaching staff at St. Louis University. A com­bination such as this should show us a few tricks of Rockne caliber. 
A glance at the marriage column shows that there were a number of casualties reported from the Class of '28. JOE BREIG and H. L. Mencken both "took the count." • I see by the papers that H. L. attempted to give an explanation for his move but as we go to press we haven't .had a word from Joe. 

JACK MULLEN visited the cam­pus several times this summer. Jack is writing advertising copy for the Chicago Tribune. 
WALTER LAYNE is an editor on the True Detective Mysteries staff. MURRAY YOUNG, '29, having re­ceived Ids master's degree at Colum­bia will soon begin teaching English at Washington Irving High School in New York. 
DAN BRADLEY begins his third year at Cornell Medical School this month. He asks for a little news from ths other medics. DR. JIM STACK is "going hot," to use Dan's expres­sion, at St. Vincent's Hospital at 12th and 7th Ave. in New York City. 
W. H. MURPHY came through with some news for the column. Bill is with Beard & Ayers. I am glad to hear that there has been another '28 man join the ranks of our classmates on La Salle Street in Chicago. DICK NOVAK had just finished a success­ful year at George Washington Uni­versity according to Murph's letter. 
The last we heard from our Vice-President and past Grand Knight HOWIE PHALIN, was on Aug. 16th. He was located at that time in Den­ver and gave his address as P. O. Box 2836. We hope to see him this fall at several of the games. Howie has a way of being shifted to the mid-west during the football season. 
GEORGE SCHEUER, state editor of the South Bend News-Times, has just returned from two weeks spent in New York City as a guest of the New York bureau of the United Press -Association. While there he found FRANKLIN E. DOAN high in the towers along Fifth avenue writing a story later published in the American magazine. BERNARD GARBER is in charge of a lively little bookstore frequented by many of Gotham's writers. ENGENE DUFFY was transferred from the editorial to the advertising department of the New York Herald-Tribune. JOHN McMA-HON is on the lobster shift of the New York Sun. HARRY ENGLE was found living in the International house near Columbia University. 
ED. McCORMACK spent the sum­mer at Columbia University after a spring jaunt through Europe. He ex­pects to be permanently located in Chicago this Fall in the Journalistic game. 
The first Solemn High Mass of the REV. KEITHEN LAWRENCE ROCHE was celebrated at St. Mary's Cathedral, Peoria, HI., on July 20. Keithen stopped at the Alumni Office on his way home from his long stay 
in Rome and looks fine. 
Another '26er to choose the Church 
was REV. BERNARD COUGHLIN, 
whose ordination occurred on June 9. 
Bemie said his first Solemn High 
Mass on Sunday, June 15, in the 
Church of the Sacred Heart, Waseca, 
Minn. 
The ordinations at Notre Dame on June 24 completed the preparation for the priesthood of four members of the Class in the Congregation of Holv Cross: REV. EDWARD MASSART, C.S.C.. Seattle, Wash.; REV. JOSEPH MCCARTNEY, C.S.C., South Bend, Ind;; REV. HOWARD KENNA, C.S. C, Jamestown, N.D., and REV. LEO GORMAN, C.S.C., Merrill, Wis. The first Solemn High Masses were said in their home parishes on June 29. JERRY HAYES, JIM ROWAN and JOHN TUOHY were among the Class­mates present for the beautiful cere­monies. Rt. Rev. John Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne, performed the cere­monies of ordination. 
REV. JOSEPH TOOMEY was or­dained to the priesthood in Rochester, 
N. Y., on June 7 by Bishop O'Hem of that diocese. Joe celebrated his first Solemn High Mass in his own parish, Binghampton, N. Y., on June 15, Trinity Sundav. DOC GELSON. ED­DIE FALLON, CHARLEY JUDGE and ED BYRNE were there from Brooklyn, also WA ICANE ED O'­BRIEN and JIMMY FARRELL from Binghampton. -Also Mr. and Mrs. JERRY MORSCHES. PUT NEW­MAN visited Joe this summer. He is in Pittsburgh, if plans materialized, as regional director for G-E. Joe heard from MIICE BOLGER, who is pushing Fisher Bodies to the edifica­tion of three little Bolgers. Joe is assistant pastor, St. Brigid's Church, 318 Herkimer St., Syracuse, N. Y. He sends his greetings and blessing to the Class. 
BOB GRAHAM is still designing bridges for the Dept. of Public Works in Springfield, HI. Bob met MARK and Mrs. MOONEY in Springfield this summer, after Mass (speaking well for them all). 
1929 
Joseph P. JIcNamara, 2.31 Wisconsin 
St., Indianapolis, Ind., Secretary. 

The AVashington Evening Star of July 28 carried a familiar face in its sports section — THOMAS (BUD) M-ARKEY, winner, with a partner, of the doubles tennis championship of the public parks of the District of Colum­bia. Bud was to have played in the national public parks tournament on August 18, but no further information has been forthcoming. 
Another familiar figure in the sports world has been JACK ELDER. Jack has written and has also been down several times during the sum­mer. Jack has been keeping track of TOM RYAN, out at Lake Forest; he saw LARRY MOORE oflf for Califor­
nia recently. Jack says he sees TOM NASH, OSCAR RUST and RAY ANGSTEN quite often. BART Mc-HUGH wrote Jack from somewhere in Pennsylvania where Bart is extoll­ing the Pictorial Review. CHARLIE COLTON, Jack adds, is running a restaurant in Boston and most of the boys he meets seem to be keeping the wolf from the door. Jack is going big, the Editor hears from other sources, with the Herald-Ex. 
CHARLEY EIHN wrote from the Universal Credit Corp. in Detroit to send a clipping of JACK CANNON in the act of autographing a Ford or some such kindly gesture, from the Ford Netus. 

JIM CURRY wrote that he was taking a trip East this summer to check up on JERRY CROWLEY, CHARLEY COLTON, JHCKEY QU.ALTERS and ANDY KANE and would report for this issue. They must have got to him. In Toledo he saw FRANK BELDING, married and with a baby; BUD CLARK, and PHIL TOMPKINS. Jim talked in his letter, though still single, as though the first game in the Fall might re­quire two tickets. 
LARRY MOORE was a welcome visitor on his way back to California after a year in the New York offices of the Fox Film Corp. Larry ex­pected to line up with the same outfit in L. A. 
HENRY WATTS EICHER, for eight years connected with the Uni­versity Endowment organization, is now in Washington, D. C, with the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Society, accepting a newly created lay job there on August 1. Watts, JOHNNY COLRICK and FRANK CONNOLLY are expecting to do a Three Mus­keteers at .A.pt. 614, 1803 Biltmore St., Washington, during the year. Johnny and Frank are putting Georgetown on its feet while Eicher collects for Poor Ben. 
JOHN and BILL BROWN are be­ing eagerly awaited in Racine, Wis. They were passengers on a boat which should have been in the neigh­borhood of Santo Domingo when the terrific hurricane struck there. Thsy were on their way home from a sum­mer's work in Washington state. Bill will open a law office in Racine, while John goes back to Wisconsin to com­plete his final year. . 
1930 Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth Ave., New Kensington, Pa., Sec'y. 

Editor's Note: Some of the 1930 fellows were mixed up on the pay­ment of dues for the current year. The Association is as valuable to you now as it will ever be. The dues— $5 annually—are reasonable enough. So we charge them immediately upon graduation. What you were told was 
this—you were graduated into a bad 
depression. The Association said 
that while dues were ordinarily pay­
able on June 1, for the Class of 1930 
time would be allowed for securing an 
income. If you made arrangements 

by August 1, then you were placed on 
the preferred football ticket list. If 
you didn't—worse things could hap­
pen to you. 
In the matter of Living Endow­
ment, the sponsors of that Plan had 

hoped that your Class would act as 
•
 a Class before you left the University. You didn't. Your reasons were sound­er than those that other Classes, in less troubled times, can advance. But we hop2 that as soon as possible dur­ing the year, acting as individuals, the Class of 1930 will be 100% behind this very significant movement launched in conjunction with your gi-aduation. 

T.
 VINCENT McINTIRE of the scintillating repartee and facile psn, writes from Zanesville, Ohio, where he is evading a blonde menace through the medium of a state highway in­spector's job. The i-oyal road to romance. 


BOB DINKEL dropped a line from 

Lakewood, Ohio, during the summer. 
The Class Secretary is still sparring 

for time to study the columns so he'll 
know what dirt to spill and what dirt 
to keep in the Class archives for 
Reunion. So his first contribution is 
brief: CHET ASHMAN is with a 
brokerage firm in Los Angeles; 
STEVE NOLAN was sesn in Paris; 
DAN CANNON is with Hayden and 
Stone, bonds; HOWARD SMITH is 
building roads in Pelham; RAY TOT­
TEN is in the insurance business in 
Pittsburgh; TOM CUNNINGHAM is 
studying law at Columbia and 
FRANK WALKER is doing the same 
at Harvard. 
Which was 0. K., as far as it went. 

You' write to Bemie, so Bernie can 
shoot it through to this column. You 
want to know about the other fellows 
—they want to know about you. 
LEO LOVE is doing the kind of 

thing that is making Notre Dame 
bigger and better all the time. Left 
writes that he is getting settled a bit, 
but is going in for an M. S. at Colum­
bia this year. In the meantime he 
lined up ssven freshmen from Ottum­
wa and is looking forwai-d a few 
years to an N. D. Club in his home 
territory. 
CHARLIE GASS is in Los An­

geles, Calif., attending So. Cal., if the 
dope is right. 
DAN WELCHONS wrote a dandy 

letter from Hutchinson, Kansas. Dan 
is sort of a lone N. D. wolf around 

there, though he says that BUD 
GEBERT is making a quick name for 

himself at Wichita U. 
Lots of luck. Don't Ut the depres­sion get you. 







