The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
r 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
! VOL. VII CONTENTS FOR MARCH, 1929 No. 7 
• 
i 
3 Washington's Birthday, 1929 Frontispiece 1 Hon. Alfred E. Smith—1929 Laetare Medallist 195 j University Band of 1929 Is Outstanding 198 I President's Page, by Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C 201 I The University Glee Club 202 I The Alumni Clubs J_ 203 ? Women's Club Page, by Sr. M. Eleanore, C.S.C, president 207 1 Athletics, by Franklyn E. Doan 208 i Editorial 211 I The Alumni ; 214 I 
I The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association ^ of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 I a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include g a year's subscription to THE ALXJMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923. I at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1897. All corres-I pondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame. Indiana. 
» MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
f MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
JAJIES E. ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
j THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
I OF THE I UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
I 
I Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., f Notre Dame, Indiana I JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
I ALUMNI BOARD i EDWARD J. MAURUS, '93 ------ Honorary President 
i DON HAMILTON, '12 -­I WILLIAM A. DRAPER, '07 I JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 I WALTER DUNCAN, '12 ­f ALFRED C. RYAN, '20 -­I GEORGE M. MAYPOLE, '03 
1  M. HARRY MILLER, '10  ­ 
1  JOHN P. MURPHY, '12  ­ - 
I  
!  

- - - - - - - ­  President  
­ - - - - - ­  Vice-President  
­ - - - - - - ­  Secretary  
- - - - - - - ­  Treasurer  
- - - - -- - ­  Director  
­ - - - - - - - ­  Director  
-- - - - - - -  Director  

-----(ex officio) Director 
r 
HQ)ashington's birthday ig2g 
FLAG PRESENTED TO UNIA'ERSITY BY SENIOR CLASS 
SENIORS MARCHING TO WASHINGTON HALL 
—w———••• m w^^i—w 
^•g^lr 
(?1 


f THE NOTRE DAAAE ALUMNUS 1 
A magazine which seeks to unify Notre Dame spirit among Notre Dame alumni; to keep alive the friendliness and democracy of the campus when campus days are gone; to acquaint Notre Dame alumni with the development of the University, and the broader devel­opment of the principles of Catholic education; to organize alumni activity so that it may better and in a greater measure attain its ends; to live in print as Notre Dame men live 
always, "For God, for Country, and for Notre Dame." 
i-i) 
Hon, Alfred E. Smith—1929 
"The Univers­ity of Notre Dame announc­es the award of the Laetare Medal for the year 1929 to the Honorable A1 ­fred E. Smith, former governor of the State of New York. The award of this medal is made annually to some lay-Cath­olic of the Unit­ed States, who has achieved such distinction in his field of special endeavor as to reflect glory upon the Catholic Faith. Notable services to religion, phi­losophy, science, 
="1(5*^ 

Laetare Medallist 
from the man's sterling Catho­licity. There­fore, in the choice of this latest recipient of the Laetare Medal, the Uni­versity feels that the end for which this hon­or was estab­lished is fitting­ly served." 
This formal an­
nouncement b y 
the Eev. Charles 
L. O'Donnell, C. 
S. C, president 
of University, was made March 10, Laetare Sun­day, the fourth Sunday of Lent, i n impressive services in Sa­cred Heart Church on the 
art, literature, HO>'. AlFKED E. SMITH Univei'sity cam­
or to any other worthy activities of life or division of knowledge, as well as distinguished sei-vice to our country in public life, are among the reasons determining the selection and bestowal of this honor. The long and hon­orable public career of ex-governor Alfred 
E. Smith, as well as the fine example of his private family life, are knowm and admired by the entire American people. These public and private virtues are inseparable 
pus. Award of the Medal will be made at a time and place as yet unannounced. 
Once more the University has placed the supreme seal of American Catholicity upon an American Catholic layman. This honor has frequently been likened to the Golden Rose bestowed annually by the Pope upon a Catholic layman similarly outstanding in world affairs. 
Mr. Smith joins an illustrious company. 
Yet few Catholics, and few broad men of any creed, will question his place there. Few public men have been identified so in­sistently, and ^\'ith such varied motives, as Catholic. The faith of but few Catholic laymen has been exposed to the public as was his. The staunchness of that faith, the sincerity with which he explained it, the certainty with which he challenged those opposed to it, made of his recent campaign a Mission of inestimable value to the Cath­olic Church in America. 
K^^­^..' •'*' '1 
nd^i 
•^w^,
*H 
. I. 
f^^ttF"**! ^ ,,. ^
!l  ui 1 ^^k\' 
^^^^^•i^^H^^UM 
^^^^T^^^fcP!-^ '4 ^ ^ 
jk m 
SIR. AND MRS. SMITH IN ELKHART 
There is no mention made of his presi­dential campaign in the formal announce­ment of his selection. There needed to be none. His long and unimpeachable record as governor of the State of New York and the splendid family group that became so well knowTi while the public seai-chlights played upon its head speak eloquently enough of the character of the 1929 Medallist. 
The ALUMNUS is proud to join the in­numerable admirers of the 1929 recipient.in the sincere rejoicing for this well-deserved award. 
A short history of the Medal and a list of those upon whom it has been bestowed will pei-haps indicate the honor attached to the award. 
The Golden Eose of Laetare Sunday bestowed by the Pope upon some Catholic renowned for services in the cause of re­ligion has always been esteemed by the re­cipient as one of the highest of earthly favors, and has gained from the world at large the most marked applause. 
"The University of Notre Dame has in like manner won gi'eat honor by the selec­tion as the recipient of the medal of Ameri­cans, men and women, who, by their talents and virtues, have added lustre to the Ameri­can Catholic name. . . The honor done by the giving of the Laetare Medal is not simply in the honor done to the worthy, but in the emulation aroused in youthful genius, and in the respect inspired in the minds of all good people for unobtrusive merit." 
The custom was inaugurated in 1883, in the presidency of Reverend Thomas Walsh, 
C.S.C. John Gilmeary Shea, historian, was the first medallist. Last year Hon. Jack Spalding, K.S.G., Atlanta, was the recipient. In 1927 Miss Margaret Anglin, one of America's foremost actresses, was honored. In 1926 Hon. Edward N. Hurley, former chairman of the U. S. Shipping Board, was selected. The list of medallists is given as follows: 
1883 John Gilmeary Shea 1884 Patrick J. Keeley 1885 Eliza Allen Starr 1886 General John Newton 1887 An anonymous person whose mod­
esty refused the honor. 1888 Patrick V. Hickey 1889 Anna Hanson Dorsey 1890 William J. Onahan 1891 Daniel Dougherty 1892 Henry F. Brownson 1893 Patrick Donahue 1894 Augustin Daly 1895 Mary Sadlier 1896 General Wm. Rosecrans 1897 Dr. Thomas Addis Emmett 1898 Hon. T. E. Howard 1899 Mary Gwendolin Caldwell 1900 John A. Creighton 1901 William Bourke Cochran 1902 Dr. John B. Murphy 1903 Charles J. Bonaparte 1904 Richard Keams 1905 Thomas B. Fitzpatrick 1906 Dr. Francis Quinlan 1907 Katherine Conway 1908 James C. Monaghan 1909 Frances Tieman 1910 Maurice Francis Egan 1911 Agnes Eepplier 1912 Thomas B. Mulry 1913 Charles B. Herberman 1914 Edward Douglas White 
THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS 
1915  Mary Merrick  
1916  Dr. James J. Walsh  
1917  William Shepherd Benson  
1918  Joseph Scott  
1919  George Duval  
1920  Dr. Lawrence F. Flick  
1921  Elizabeth Nourse  
1922  Charles Patrick Neill  

1923 1924 1925 1926 1927 1928 1929  Walter George Smith 
 Charles D. Maginnis  Dr. Albert Francis Zahm  Hon. Edward N. Hurley  Margaret Anglin  Jack Spalding, K. S. G.  Hon. Alfred E. Smith 

1929 Nominating Committees 
EAY J. ElCHENLAUB, '15, Ch. FRANK H. HAYES, '14, Ch. 1 S. 4th St., Columbus, Ohio. Union Bank of Chicago, Chicago. DANIEL SHOUVLIN, '14 JOSEPH BYRNE, '15 High Street, Springfield, Ohio. 45 Clinton St., Newark, N. J. 
E. C. McHuGH, '13 JOSEPH D. SINNOTT, '08 
P. O. Box 429, Cincinnati, Ohio. 1931 E. Lynn St., Seattle, Wash. 
The above Committees are here listed in accordance with the Constitution of the Association. By the time the March issue is in general circulation, the Committees should have apprised each other of their nominations for President. 
DR. BONINE TALKS 
Dr. F. N. Bonine, LL.D. 1919, famous eye specialist of Niles, Michigan, spoke recently before the Notre Dame Academy of Science. Dr. Bonine is an exceptional character. He was holder for years of the world's 100-me­ter dash record, which he established while a student at the U. of Michigan. He was a member of the Olympic team in the early 90s. His practice of medicine has for years been largely confined to eye troubles, and his little office in Niles receives an average of 300 patients each office day. As relaxa­tion from this terrific strain—Dr. Bonine works alone—he has a keen interest in sports. He attends practically every im­portant prize fight, the Kentucky derbies, fishes for tarpon every yeai-, and is gen­erally interested in athletics. His charity is as great as his talent. However, his life and work make too long a story for this little space. Needless to say, the Academy of Science profited greatly from his ad­dress. 

HOYNES NIGHT 
Another of the annual observances of "Hoynes Night" planned by the College of Law to honor Col. William J. Hoynes, founder and dean emeritus, will be held March 27, when a banquet ^\all be given in the Faculty dining room of the University Dining Halls. Judge M. M. Oshe, '12, and Judge John Eggeman, '00, will be among the guests. A number of other Law alumni are expected to attend. 

"HOOSIER" JUGGLER 
The March issue of the Juggler was titled the "Hoosier" number. A number of quo­tations are sandwiched in this issue of the ALUMNUS. Several of Indiana's celebri­ties appeared in the issue. Kin Hubbard, author of the Abe Martin series of cartoons and sayings, and Meredith Nicholson, Hoosier author, contributed articles. 

FIRST DEBATES 
The University debating teams were heard on the campus for the first time Feb­ruary 28 and March 1. A negative Notre Dame team defeated Detroit U. on tiie ques­tion, "Eesolved: that a criminal code simi­lar in procedure to the criminal code of Great Britain should be adopted through­out the United States." The negative team consisted of James Walsh, Thomas Happer and Joseph McNamara. The affirmative team, which lost to Depauw, consisted of George Beamer, Charles Haskell and Fran­cis McGreal. 



University Band of 
"The finest band in the history of the Uni­versity gave its first concert Monday even­ing, March 4th, in Washington Hall under the direction of Joseph J. Casasanta, dean of the music school. Officials of the Uni­versity asserted that this concert was the finest band concert given by a student or­ganization in the past four years and the caliber of the work performed by the Band measured up to the standard of the pro­grams given by all of the artists here this year." 
In addition to the concerts planned in South Bend after Easter this same program will be used when the Band entrains for its spring tour. The Band anticipates aj)pear­ances in several Ohio towns, Tiffin, Lima, Canton, Barberton, and possibly Toledo, be­ing a few of the towns already reporting favorably on its appearance in each. 
Through the experience gained during the football season, the Band has become known around the University and South Bend for it's stirring martial airs. In the program given below, however, the organization showed its versatility in fine style. The "Ave Maria" and a collection of "Victor Herbert's favorites" were the outstanding numbers, but the group of campus songs, "Hike! Notre Dame," and "Down the Line," by Director Casasanta, with the beloved "Victory March," drew a large share of the praise. 
Following is the regular Band program: 
PART ONE  
1. Marches—  
(a)  "With the Colors"  Morris  
(b)  "Senn Triumphal"  Hiiffer  
2. Intermezzo  De Liica  
3. Motet—^"Ave Maria"  Bach-Gounod  

4.
 "Dance of the Teddy Bears" Weidt 

5.
 Overture—^"Fountain of Youth"_ King 


Intermission. 
PART TWO 
1. Marches— 
(a)
 "March of the Blues" (Arr. by) Sousa 

(b)
 "Washing-ton Post" Sotisa 


2. Victor Herbert Favorites (Arr. by) Lake 

1929 is Outstanding 
3. Popular Waltz "King For a Day"__(Arr. by) Redfield 
4. Overture—^"Orpheus"  Offenbach  
5. Songs of the Campus—  
(a) "Hike, Notre Dame"  Casasanta  
(b) "Down the Line"  Casasanta  
(c) "Victory March"  Shea  

Officers of the Band are: Joseph J. Casa­santa, director; Joseph E. Keefe, president; Virgil P. Cline, -vice-president; Patrick Mc­Laughlin, publicity manager; Edmund Lea Mond, librarian. 
The Band personnel by sections is as fol­lows : Drum Majors—Henry S. Tholen, Quincy, 111.; Edward B. Ryan, Oak Park, 111. Clarinets—Eobert Braeckel, Joplin, Mo.; 
P. BrowTi, Penn-ville, Ind.; Alvaro Ferlini, Mishawaka, Ind.; Tom Lawless, Freeport, 111.; Bernard J. Lenoue, Spokane, Wash.; Richard T. Neeson, Divernon, 111.; Ray V. Novak, Spillville, Iowa; Harold Pohlmeyer, West Point, Iowa; Leo A. Rees, Rome, N. Y.; Chas. F. Schmied, Columbus, Wis.; George E. Stenger, Waukegan, 111.; Peter J. Wacks, Binghamton, N. Y. 
Piccolos — Virgil P. Cline, Barberton, Ohio; Ed. Halpin, South Bend, Ind.; Wil­liam C. Heineman, Conners-vnlle, Ind.; Charles H. Miltner, Cadillac, Mich. 
Saxophones—^Vito J. Canizaro, Vicksburg, Miss., C Melody; Norbert J, Collins, Yon­kers, N. Y., E flat Alto; Jack Folks, Pat­terson, N. J., E flat Alto; Aldo M. Frillici, Eveleth, Minn., E flat Alto; Floris Leach, Grand Rapids, Mich.; George Pope, Bunkie, La., B flat Tenor; Robert Watei-son, Niles, Mich., B flat Tenor; Robert H. Zeis, Ken­ton, Ohio, B flat Tenor. 
Trumpets—Albert Brasseur, Clarksburg, 
W. Va.; John Bums, Niles, Mich.; Edmund Lea Mond, South Orange, N. J.; Peter E. Moroni, Eveleth, Minn.; Percy C. Rosevear, South Bend, Ind.; John M. Scanlon, In­dianapolis, Ind.; J. Carlton Sullivan, Au­burn, N. Y.; Stanley Trafis, Cleveland, Ohio; John 0. Weibler, LaGrange, 111. 
Trombones—Edward J. Donovan, Spring­field, Mass.; Floyd A. Genin, Belleville, Wis.; Robert A. Grant, South Bend, Ind.; Theodore S. Halpin, South Bend, Ind.; John 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
W. Jauch, Niles, Mich.; Virgilius Phillips, Columbia City, Ind.; William A. Stewart, Cortland, N. Y. 
Alto Horns—Jack P. Farr, Rome, N. Y.; 
Noble F. Harbaugh, South Bend, Ind.; Wal­
ter F. Philips, Philadelphia, Pa.; Albert W. 
Schulze, San Antonio, Texa.s. 
Baritones—John N. Fetzer, North Lib­
erty, Ind.; Claude L. Rossiter, Walthill, 
Nebr.; Frank Sindlinger, South Bend, Ind. 
Sousaphones — Sylvester J. Daugherty, Steubenville, Ohio, double B flat; Sylvester 
N. Wagner, Iron Junction, Minn., E flat. 
Percussion Instruments—Francis Boyce, Escana, Mich., snare drum; Harry A. Bus­scher, Melrose Park, 111., snare drum; Ar­thur J. Gallagher, Cleveland, Ohio, cymbals; William Hall, Buffalo, N. Y., snare drum; Joseph E. Keefe, Winter Haven, Fla., snare drum; H. Patrick McLaughlin, Quincy, 111., snare drum; Raymond Young, Elkhart, Ind., bass drum. 
N. D. STATE ORATOR 
James C. Roy, who won the Breen Medal contest this year for the third consecutive time, won the Indiana State Oratorical Con­
test held Febru­
ary 13 in the 
Goddard Audi­
torium of Earl-
ham College at 
Richmond, Ind. 
Mr. Roy, a sen­
ior A. B., re­
ceived almost a 
unanimous de­
cision on his 
oration, "Twen­
ty Thousand 
Leagues Under 
the Sea." Mr. 
Ro y received 
second place in 
JAMES C. ROY 
the state contest last year and third the preceding year, so that his victory was consistent with the steady development of his exceptional ora­torical powers. 
The victory brought the Fort Wayne ora­tor an opportunity to represent Indiana in the sectional oratorical contest to be held at some school in Illinois—the winner of the Illinois state contest—^besides a gold medal. 
FROM M'GUIRE (HIMSELF) 
(Ed: The new rules say that a fiunble is dead where the opposition recovers it, but as there is apparently a chance to gain by continued play, we are going to let Mc­Guire run vnth the ball.) 
Editor the Notre Dame Ahmimis, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Dear Sir: I have just read in your February issue, under the heading "N. D. Scribblers," the protest from Hari-y Flannei-y, '23, against my being known as the founder, or the or­ganizer, of The Scribblers. I do not write you ^vith the intention of denying "Flan's" main point, which is that people should hot call me that; but with the intention, rather, of throwing a bit of light on the true origins of this club. The old Writers Club, as it existed when we of '25 were freshmen, consisted of a very few upper classmen ("Flan," in his communication, remembers only the names of himself and two others) which met, according to the little we freshmen could learn of it, two or three times that year in "Flan's" room. By the beginning of our sophomore year it must have been practically dead, for I recall that we soph­omores had to urge "Flan" to call a meet­ing of writers and get the organization under way. It was almost two months after school had opened that "Flan" was persuaded to call a meeting of "those in­terested in writing." Practically none of the alleged members of the old Writers Club attended; there were about ten or twelve men present, the vast majority of whom had been like myself freshmen the year before, hax-ing no connection with the Writers Club. Offhand I remember nine of the men who were there. Seven of those nine had just become sophomores (Joe Luley, Al Thiemann, Al Sommers, John Mullen, John Showell, Ray Cunning­ham and myself). Two of those I remem­ber were juniors or seniors (Flannery and Charles McGonagle). In those days I kept a Line-a-Day diary. I have just consulted it, and find under entry of November 8, 1922: "Am elected president of the Writers Club. Ray (Cun­ningham) is secretary-treasurer, and we lay comprehensive plans." So much for 
"Flan's" contention that before this date the name of his organization had been changed to The Scribblers. If that be so, it was kept a deep, dark secret from us Sophomores, for in my diary under entry of Nov. 22, I still refer to the club as the Writers Club, After that the diary refers to the organization as The Scribblers— for at the second or third meeting we changed the name by a vote of the mem­bers. 
Flannery says: "With our graduation the club passed into younger hands and Harry was president of the club." Actu­ally the club had passed into younger hands in the fall of Flannery's senior year; and by the time he graduated The Scribblers had been recognized as a new and distinctive club manned by a bunch of upstart sophomores. 
Flannery wishes to imply that The Scribblers was an outgi'owth of the old Writers Club. About the only connection between the two was that Flannery had been president of the old club, and pre­sided at the meeting which saw the begin­ning of the new one. We sophomores who traced the plan for The Scribblers as it at present exists were not influenced by the slightest heritage from any previous or­ganization of writers. Flannery implies that the only change was "the impetus of enthusiasm" given the ne\y club. This en­thusiasm was no more than a starting point. We limited the club membership; we voted in members only from those who had made application; we met evei-y two weeks and sometimes once a week; we dropped from membership those who, with­out good reason, missed two successive meetings; we assigned special papers to be read at meetings; we charged dues; we had occasional "feeds" in the room in the library assigned as our meeting place; we invited to our meetings the most interest­ing speakers we could find; we had ban­quets, picnics; we talked amazingly too much about ourselves; and we wei-e usually kicked out of the library for haranguing after the lights wei"e supposed to be out. By our second year we were enough of an entity to produce a financially successful volume of collected Notre Dame verse, and to be officially designated as an organiza­tion, as editors of The Scholastic. . 
Flannery is doubtless right in one re­spect in resenting that I personally should have come to be known as the founder of The Scribblers. No one individual can "make" such an organization. The fact that the club chose me as its president for three successive years is not a true indica­tion of the great part played in the club's success in the early stages by such men as Al Sommers and Ray Cunningham; nor later by such as Jack Scallan, Jim Arm­strong, Jim Hayes, Jerry Holland, Eddie Lyons, Joe Burke, and'older chaps who joined ranks with us, like Vince Engels, Joe Eyan, Henry Bamhart, and Flannery himself. Nor does it indicate what amount of the club's success was due to the inter­est taken in it by its first three honorary presidents, Pi-of. Cooney, Prof. Shuster, and Fr. Charles O'Donnell. Nor anything of the inspiration imbibed from Fr. Cav­anaugh, and from the fine enthusiasm of Prof. Phillips after he came to the Uni­versity. These men—^mostly men of the class of '25—are ingrained indelibly in the early history of The Scribblers. The old Writei-s Club, God rest its alleged and evanescent soul, is not. 
HARRY MCGUIRE. 
BASKETBALL BANQUET 
The Villagers Club, South Bend undei"­graduates, entertained Coach George Keo­gan and the Notre Dame basketball team at a banquet on March 14 in the Oliver Hotel. 
BEAUX ARTS HONORS 
Notre Dame again took the limelight in the Beaux Arts Institute, when John Zee­dick, a Pennsylvania junior architect, and Chai-les Smallwood, a Chicago junior archi­tect, were honored by the judges in a con­test for designs of a college chapel. Zeedick received a mention, and Smallwood a com­mendation. 
EDUCATORS MEET 
Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.G., '11, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Prof. Augustine Confrey represented the Uni­versity at the meeting of the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools on March 13 and 14. 
•I  " ; :  
resments u:age  
HAT should a University expect from its alumni? This question"AY 7  •  
\\ / was put by the Cornell Alumni Corporation to fifty college presi­ 
• » dents all over the United States, representing every type of  I  
institution, large universities and small, privately endowed and state  I  
maintained, sectarian institutions, women's colleges and coeducational universi­ 
ties. Twenty-nine of this number answered. In an attempt to summarize  
the data thus secured The Cornellian Council Bulletin says:  
j  "While there is general similarity in the answers of the pi-esidents, so  J  
II  many phases of alumni activity were touched upon, that it is extremely difficult  to write a formula which represents an average President's opinion of what I [  
f  a university expects from its alumni. The gi-eat majority responded from  |  
I  the angle that the alumnus is an actual part of the university picture. Others I1  
\  viewed the subject objectively and discussed the alumnus in his relations to  »  
I  society at large. We learn from many of the Presidents that universities look  i  
f  to their alumni for an intelligent interest in their educational programs, a  j  
I  sympathetic understanding of their ideals, and constructive criticism based on  •I  
i  information. Many of them comment on the subject of the financial responsi­ 
1  bility of the alumnus to the institution that gave him his education, but  |  
I  singularly enough few treat this phase of the alumni relationship from the  1  
I  standpoint that financial support is any way a duty. Dr. Kush Ehees,  f  
I  President of the University of Rochester, justified a university's appeal to  »  
f  alumni as 'presumably its most interested constituents.'  i  
t  J  
I  ^  "The over-emphasis of athletics and interest in extra-curricular activities  |  
iI  by the alumni is apparently on the minds of many of the presidents and this is refiected in such response as the following: 'The alumni can be most helpful  J I  
I  by reducing their emphasis on the side shows ' which is the opinion  j  
f  of Eay Lyman Wilbur, the President of Stanfoi-d University. ... .  i  
k  [  
I  "Kenneth M. Sills, President of Bowdoin College, feels that a university  j  
I  'should wish its alumni to understand that its university is first, last, and all  1  
I  the time is an institution of learning, and that the contribution it makes to  |  
I  American life must be considered very largely from that angle.' ,  I  
1  •  
i  "Dr. H. W. Chase, President of the University of North Carolina, says  f  
\  the university has a right to expect of its alumni, among other things,  |  
I  'recognition of the fact that it is primarily an educational institution.'"  i  
I  1  
I  A good deal can be read between the lines of these communications. They  |  
!  reveal at least one fact which is of importance: alumni are interested in  |  
fI  their schools. As to the nature of their interest, it would seem that any kind  j  
of interest is better than none at all. The University whose graduates are  !  
I  done %vith it, once they are graduated—if any such University exists—^would  i  
seem to be in the most desperate situation of all.  1  
CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C.  }  
I  
I  

li^" 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

The University Glee Club—1929 
Two opening concerts, one in Dixon, Illi­
nois, and the other in Eochelle, indicated 
last month that the 1929 Glee Club is pre­
pared musically to maintain the standards 
set by the Club in recent years. At present 
the Club is preparing for a ten day invasion 
of the East. The cities that are included 
in its itinerary are Canton, Cleveland, Buf­
falo, Syracuse, Garden City, New York City 
and Brooklyn. The arrangement of the trip 
is due to the business efficiency of the Club's 
officers, Fred Wagner, president; H. Jerome 
Parker, business managei-, and Vincent 
Carney and Peter J. Wacks, assistant man­
agers. This year the Club consists of about 
80 members with a traveling personnel of 
3-5 men. The membership represents prac­
tically every state in the union and the com­
petition in the Club for the trips is de­
veloping a very high quality of music. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club, as an ex­
ponent of that cultural phase of University 
life, has mthout a doubt, established an en­
viable record within the last few years. 
This musical organization has brought repute and distinction in no small measure to the University. This may be substan­tiated by the success which it has attained within the last decade. Beginning with a frail and uncertain foundation, this society has growTi, until today it is on a par with any collegiate musical organization in the United States. 
During the 1928 season, the club traveled from coast to coast, covering some 9,000 miles on its extended itinerary. It is esti­mated that these "Irish warblers" sang be­fore approximately 25,000 people. At the conclusion of the western tour of last year, the club was accepted to record a vitaphone presentation. This was a privilege, the first of its kind ever allotted to any college club. In addition, the club has become very prominent through the recording of the school's songs, "The Victory March" and 
•"The
 Hike Song" on both the Victor and Brunsmck records. It is one of the few clubs in the country which has been accept­ed by both of these leading record manu­facturers. This alone justifies the praise 

•which
 has been heaped upon it by music 


patrons wherever it has appeared in con­cert. 
Much of the credit for the club's fine record is due to the unrelenting efforts of its capable director, Mr. Joseph J. Casa­santa. He has worked faithfully with this group and his efforts have been well re­warded. Since assuming the directorship of this organization, Mr. Casasanta has carried on the work of the organizers so that today it is rated as one of the out­standing college glee clubs of the country. He has attained what many conductors strive for in vain—results. The ease which this esteemed leader displays, has often been noted by many critics who have had the oportunity of hearing this far-famed troupe of singers. 
KELLY HEADS L S. O. A. 
Prof. Frank Kelly, an alumnus of No­tre Dame, now head of the department of public speaking, was elected on February 13 as president of the Indiana State Ora-
PKOF. FRANK KELLY 
torical Association for the current year. Prof. Kelly succeeds Professor W. N. Brigance of Wabash College. The finals of the State Contest next year will be held at Notre Dame. 
THE NOTRE DAJIE ALUMNUS 
^•-^ai^^Mi^—W'^—*i^—«o*.^ii^—w^—•-^•p^—Mi^—•1'^—ir^—i*^—« 




THE ALUMNI CLUBS 
NEW YORK The luncheon given February 12 at the Fraternity Club to Rev. Charles L. O'Don­nell, C.S.C, '06, president of the University, by the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York attracted a great deal of comment in New York, and was given wide publicity in the press. Oddly, a very fine report of the luncheon was received from Art Lea Mond, a New Jersey journalist in New York. Art said he feared he was out of his field, but as most of the other news came in as clippings, here's the report of a Notre Dame eye-witness: Because I am pretty much in New York I attended the luncheon, and what I mean it was a real luncheon, lacking the stilted­ness that sometimes occurs when a college president appears. There were about sev­enty present at the Fraternity Club Build­ing, which was decked on the outside with a huge Notre Dame banner and on the in­side with small Notre Dame flags. Seated at the head of the table, and sur­rounding the guest of the day, were William 
E. Cotter, present N. Y. Club president; Father John MacNamara, a real old-timer of the University; Hugh O'Donnell of the Times, and John Balfe, former Club presi­dent. In addition, at other places at the U-shaped tables, were that very popular dramatist and writer, J. P. McEvoy; Peter McElligott; Jerry Craugh, Bob Phalen, Am­brose O'Connell (the man who is the chief arranger and hard worker for the Club); Vincent Engels, Thomas Loftus, Thomas Burke, Daniel J. O'Neil, Dr. F. E. Neef, Richard C. Miller, W. J. Murphy, Thomas 
J. Murphy, John McSorley, R. A. McGee, Paul McGannon, Angus McDonald, W. H. Leahy, M. J. Kelly, William G. Hearn, Ed­win K. Gaynoi-, Lester Grady, L. William Fury, Edward Fallon, James N. Donohue, Louis Doyle, Charles Donahue, Frank Duf­ficy, L. J. Culliney, D. J. Colgan, Michael Adrian, William Wenzel, J. M. Walsh, Al­fred Welsh, Joseph P. Burke, W. Howard Benitz, Prof. Robt. M. Anderson, S. H. Ver­gara, George L. Sullivan, Joseph B. Naugh­
ton, Ray Scanlan, John Brennock, Art 
Canty, Joseph Barrington, William Tighe, 
and John Quincy Adams. 
The speeches resolved themselves into 

talks that were interesting, most especially 
Father O'Donnell's. The remarks of those 
I talked with, especially the newspapermen 
present, testified to the new president being 
a "regular fellow." And that he is! His 
proposals for the future growth of Notre 
Dame were well received and his talk on 
athletics generally showed that he has his 
finger tips on all phases of the University 
life. 
We'll have to credit J. P. McEvoy with one of the day's "bon mots." Called upon to give a talk he announced, with the mod­esty that is lacking in most residents of the Hotel Algonquin, that "since Father O'Don­nell has told us that there is a great lack of living space at the University I'd sug­gest that we get the traffic towers, which they're taking down on Fifth Avenue, and send them to Notre Dame. At least one would be of assistance to the prefect of discipline." 
Throughout the session a mighty gifted Senegambian vocalized and harmonized to the entertainment of all. He seemed to know the "Victory March" backwards and forwards—and here's one that surprised me —every alumnus present knew all the words. I guess we Easterners know our Notre Dame! 
Angus D. McDonald, '00, vice-president of the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York, has been elected one of the director's of the Guaranty Trust Company. This was announced in connection with the bank's recent merger with the National Bank of Commerce. As a result of the combination, the Guaranty has become the largest bank and trust company in America, with assets amounting to two billion dollars. 
John Murphy, '12, former president of the National Alumni Association, has been in New York several times recently in con­nection with various railroad mergers. 
Frank Schwab, '02, has recently moved to Mexico with his family. Frank's new address is San Juan de Letx-an No. 24, Mexico, D. F., Mexico. 
John G. Petrone, '27, has removed from New York. His new address is 4349 Forest Park Blvd., St. Louis, Mo. 
T. Paul McGannon was called home re­cently owing to the serious illness of his father. 
The Notre Dame Club of the City of New York "is planning a general round-up of all Notre Dame men in the City for Universal Notre Dame Night on April 22. A dinner is to be served at the Fraternity Club and there are to be motion pictures of Notre Dame, together with unusual other enter­tainment. The election of officei's is to take place, and a program mapped out for the ensuing year. 
CHICAGO 
By Tlwmas Barry, '25 
Two hundred and fifty alumni and old students turned out for the twenty-ninth annual election of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago in the Bal-Tabarin of the Hotel Sherman on February 21st. (We are in­debted to Byron V. Kanaley, man of many memories and one of the founders, for exact data on the club's birthday.) 
In many ways it meant just another can­dle on the cake. There were greetings ex­changed between familiar faces with for­gotten names; there were the usual remin­iscences; there was a dinner; there was an election. Those were the things that made it like the twenty-eight other election nights but there was a difference. 
The twenty-ninth birthday of the Chicago Club will be remembei-ed for a long time by the lucky ones because—Father Cavanaugh was there. He was there, which means of course, that he spoke. Just before Father Cavanaugh took the floor—and I mean that literally—Joe Sullivan, retiring president, remembered the ALUMNUS and sent hur­ried word to your scribe that he wanted the speaker's words preserved. Said scribe dutifully laid out pencil and copy paper of the variety always carried by good report­ers—in this case it happened to be two sheets torn from a notebook and the back of an old envelope. 
One hour and two minutes later the pa­per was carefully restored for use at a murder tiial or some incident that could be transferred to print. 
His talk was, to use his own words in speaking of something else, "beautiful as the exquisite fragrance of violets, which can neither be duplicated nor described." 
One hour later we came back to the Bal-Tabarin tired as from a long journey, up­lifted spiritually and physically as by a vision. We had traveled the trackless plains of Indiana with Father Sorin. We had labored with Corby and Walsh to re­cover from the smouldering ruins of '79 sufficient for the foundations of the Notre Dame of today. Again we stole pies from the "junk." We told our troubles to good Brother Florian, who in turn explained them to the Board of Discipline. We re­newed the promises, half-forgotten, made to God and self as we stood on the threshold of life, a few or many years ago, with a sheepskin in hand and the world ahead. 
In a word we heard and saw, felt and did whatever Father Cavanaugh would have us see or do. For one hour we listened to his words, trivial or ponderous with the weight of thought, and at the end we were better men. We agreed one and all, from Mark Foote to the youngest graduate of 1928, that the silver-tongued raconteur of St. Joe Valley had set a new mark for the orators of coming generations to admire, but never surpass. 
The evening's business went off on schedule—the election and the usual un­usual diversions for which the Notre Dame Club of Chicago has become famous. 
After a sharp struggle and a careful 
count the judges gave the decision for the 
presidency to John W. Costello of the class 
of 1912. Dan Curtis of '17, retiring vice-
president, was his opponent. With four 
football games scheduled for Chicago this 
fall and an untold amount of work for club 
officers, there was a. deal of sjrmpathy 
mingled with congratulations when John 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
took his post at the head of the receiving 
line. 
Other successful candidates for one year 

at hard labor were: Edmund J. Meagher, 
'21, first vice-president; James H. Brennan, 
'20, second vice-president; James A. Eonan, 
'26, treasurer; Frank T. Fitzsimmons, '20, 
secretary; John B. Kanaley, '09; Joseph F. 
O'Donnell, '27, and A. A. Van Wonterghem, 
'19, board of governors. 
Stand by for exclusive release of our 

biggest and best feature on April 22. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

Bob Riordan writes in the following ne.v's from the active District, (indicating that 
N. D. activities aren't up to the general ac­tivities. The Editor suggests that the N. 
D. men in Washington get in touch with Bob, 3800 New Hampshire Ave., and not wait to be ferreted out.): 
There seems to be a large group of N. D. men about town but they are difficult ones to find. 
Richard Edwin (Dick) Lightfoot, student emeritus N. D., has had his residence at the Naval Hospital here for the past year. 
Clarence McCabe, for the past three years on an American paper in Paris, is now with the news section of the N. C. W. C. He had a breakdown in his health last summer and returned to his home at North Piatt, Neb., then came on here to Washington where he was joined by Mrs. McCabe and the three little Macs. 
Ray Holden is doing his interne at Provi­dence Hospital, having finished medicine at Georgetown U. 
Leo R. McAloon is taking foreign service at G. U. 
Victor S. Mei-sch is ranking high in the Recorder of Wills' office and teaching law at the Columbus University (K. of C.) 
William M. GaMn, late Captain A. E. F., is with the Navy League and strutting his stuif over the new craisei-s. More power to 'em! iii-,. 
Father Rick, N. D. '24, is getting to be quite the aviator as you may have read in the papers. 
Humble I am still propagandist at the Bengalese and also am teaching English and Spanish at the K. C night school. 
Hope I may be among the fortunate ones to reune in June. 
Guests at Recent Rockne Luncheon. Hon. Curtiss D. Wilbur, Secretary of the Navy, Leland Stanford grad and old foot­ball player, brother of present president of Leland Stanford; Hon. Huston Thompson, foi-mer chairman Federal Trade Commis­sion, old Princeton football player; Hon. Hamilton Fish, Jr., House of Rep. from N. Y., Harvard football player; Colonel Rob­bins, Acting Secretary of War; Captain Van Aucken, U. S. N.; Hon. Charles P. Neill, '93, ex-commissioner of labor; Hon. Charles W. Darr, D. C. State Deputy Knights of Columbus; Judge Nicholas J. Sinnott, '92„ Court of Claims; Major Frederic William Wile, *91, Washington journalist and radio talker, former presi­dent N. D. Club; W. F. Montavon, '98, Le­gal dept., N. C. W. C ; Dr. James A. Flynn, '12, president N. D. Club of Washington, D. C.; Dr. Francis McQuillan, Providence Hos­pital staff; Dr. Ray Holden, Providence Hospital staff; Dr. Jas. A. Cahill; Dr. Har­rington; Paul Castner, '23; Captain Wil­liam M. Galvin, '14; Rev. Joseph Rick, C. 
S. C, '24; Mr. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C, '23; Rev. Francis McBride, C. S. C; Clar­ence McCabe, '22, N. C. W. C. News Ser­vice; Victor S. Mersch; Mark Stearman; Leo R. McAloon, and Robert B. Riordan, '24. 
FORT WAYNE 

Resolution of the Ft. Wayne Notre Dame Club on Death of Judge Dudley G. Wooten. 
The older Alumni at once look to the New Notre Dame as a child and to the Old Notre Dame as a parent, and the loss of a faithful servant carries a double grief. Coming after many of us left. Judge Woo­ten was a part of the New Notre Dame. At the same time the experience of a long and useful life which he brought there, to­gether with the polish, gi'ace and wisdom which he dedicated to his position; his fidel­ity to duty and his rare guidance for the future make us all feel that we were his sons. Therefore, while mourning his de­parture, we are sustained by the remem­brance that the flaming torch which he bore to the University of Notre Dame shall con­tinue to glow after his sunset, and that coral-like his life, his character, his un­selfish labor shall be added to the monu­ment which shall ever mark the magnificent achievement of our Other Mother. 
May his gentle soul rest in Peace. 
THOMAS A. MCKIERNAN, 
HAROLD MOYLAN, 
FRANK M. HOGAN, Chairman, 
MEMORIAL COMMITTEE. 
Upon motion made and seconded,- the above memorial, as submitted by the com­mittee, was approved and ordered spread of record in the minutes of the Fort Wayne Notre Dame Club, and copies sent to the University of Notre Dame. 
JOHN W. EGGEMAN, 
President. 
THOMAS A. JICKIERNAN, 
Secretary. 
HOUSTON 
The Editor wants to apologize for leav­ing Houston out of the regular Club lists for the past few months. The announce­ment of the Houston Club arrived when the Office was being moved before Commence­ment, and Nat Powers' letter was too efficiently filed. But George Burkitt, Jr., president, and Nat Powers, secretary, have the Houston territory definitely under the organized headings, and any Notre Damers dowTi there that haven't been approached, make yourselves known. 
ARKANSAS 
Father George Strassner writes from Hope, Arkansas, that the N. D. Club of Arkansas is considering several plans to make Universal Notre Dame Night in the state bigger and better. 
ROCHESTER 
President Gerry Smith writes that the Rochester outfit is continuing to show its unmistakable signs of life. The Club had a successful stag party last month. Gerry himself was busy ti-jang to get a larger and better established organization to spon­sor a Notre Dame Glee Club concert in Rochester. Jeriy LePine, he said, is on the road all the time selling gas and oil. Tom O'Connor is editor and manager of the Rochester Echo, Catholic paper published in the Rochester diocese. 
WABASH VALLEY 
Herman Kamp is having his annual dif­ficulty in rounding up the Notre Dame men in the Valley. Prospects do look a little better than iisual, and with Universal Notre Dame Night coming up, the Editor looks to see the candle light gleaming a little brighter. 
CLEVELAND 
A letter from Charles Mooney, Jr., presi­dent of the Cleveland organization, indicates that that live branch of the Notre Dame family is planning on doing things and seeing people before many more months roll. 
DETROIT 
Charley Molz, the secretary of the road-going Club, gets word out that Detroit is bent on its Renaissance, and lists a few plans that sound good, though as yet not too definite. The weekly luncheon idea is the first big step in the right direction. The Frontenac Inn, 42 Monroe Ave., is the place. Thursday noons at 12:30 is the time. Don't wait for some nice girl to ask you. Allez, which used to be a good word both at Detroit and Notre Dame. 
JOLIET Meager reports from the Joliet elections —all reports from Illinois elections of late are meager—^give the following new slate for the coming year's activities: Edward King, president; Joseph Silk, vice-president; Clarence Wilhelmi, secretary, and William Bossingham, treasurer. The Club is to hold monthly meetings, the first Tuesdays, but whether luncheon or din­ner or just general was not added. If you're in Joliet the first Tuesday—and can get permission—call President King or any of the members of the Club you know. 
NORTHERN MICHIGAN 
John Lemmer's efficiency is being capi­talized upon shamefully by the Editor in an effort to make this Club, as yet just vaguely outlined, a real organization. There are quite a few Notre Dame men in an area that could be very interestingly made into a Notre Dame Club. It's hard to get them all lined up, and once more the Editor urges any that read this and find it news to them to write to John at 309 S. Seventh St., Escanaba. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
WOAAEN'S CLUB PAGE 
4.._> 

Somebody needs a scolding. As I am not certain who this somebody is I shall broadcast a warning to the poor general readers. A frantic appeal from secretarial headquarters informed me that there is no "community write-up" for our page of the March issue of the ALUMNUS, and also suggested that I should write something of some kind to fill in. Now I may be rather proud of my humility; but even an Uriah Heep might rightly object to such a re­quest. However, right here and now I de­liver an ultimatum: If material is not forthcoming promptly and generously from all the other religious communities of our association, I shall write a monthly pane­gyric on my own community and insist that it occupy our page in the ALUMNUS indeterminately. 
We have seventy odd establishments un­der our charge; and so you see mine is no idle threat. If I treat one establish­ment a month I shall preempt the page for about six years. I am hoping, however, that such drastic measures will not be necessary and that while I am deciding which I shall treat next month, our new college in Salt Lake City or our new hos­pital in Fresno or my own St. Mary's, some one else will rush in an account of her own community, to fill our page as well as it has been filled during the last months. I, for one, have read it with in­terest and pleasure. Do see to it that this fine beginning is followed up worthily. 
Now that I have the page, however, I 
wish to urge you to cooperate generously 
with Father O'Donnell, by an immediate 
reply to the questionaire that has recent­
ly been mailed to us from his office. A 
great many of you have done much work 
in the educational departments of your 
schools, both theoretically and practically; 
and your opinions will matter much more 
than those of us whose work has been di­
rected to other departments, such as liter­
ature, economics, sciences, and languages. 
The project is a most worthy one and de­
serves our interest and support, even if 
our ability to further it be limited by lack 

of technical experience in the department of education. 
With Father O'Donnell, I hope that as many of you as can do so will return to the alumnK meetings next summer. For' that reason I hope that the committee in charge of the progi-ams for the business and the social meetings will see to it that they occur on successive days, if possible. 
Our constitutions provide for annual election of officers. This is a good provi­sion in many ways, and yet I am hoping the members will consider seriously the advisability of elections only every two years, with the regulation that the officers be changed at evei-y election. As matters now stand, our officers hardly learn their duties before they are relieved of them. And if they are re-elected their interest is difncult to re-awaken in duties quite defi­nitely ended in their own minds. This is a pei'fectly honest conclusion from my own experience as president. No one could be more grateful than I am for my first and my second election as your president; but even I find it very difficult to begin a business meeting with an introductory speech in which I express my pleasure over being elected president, and to end the same meeting two hours later with a speech of farewell. After all, that would dampen any one's oratorical fervor, you must admit. There is also a sort of tend­ency merely to mark time till the term is ended. If we met several times during the year or had a greater number of activi­ties, the matter would not be the same at all. This is only a suggestion, of course, which is made from my head rather than from my heart. My heart bids me let every future president have the thrill of re-election; but my head says that the efficiency of the president matters more than her thrill of personal joy over a re­newed vote of confidence. 
I am looking forward with great pleasure to our reunion next summer. SISTER M. ELE.\NOKE, C. S. C , 
President. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
FRANKLYN E . DOAN 



ATHLETICS 
1. -? 
Notre Dame Again 
TK.VCK 
April 20—^Kansas Relays. 
April 27—^Drake Relays. 
3Iay 4—^Xotre Dame vs. Illinois at Crbaiia, 111. 
3Iay 11—^Slichigan State at :X(>tre Dame. 
Sla.v 18—^Indiana Slate Champioiisliips at 
Bloomiii£:ton. 
June 1—Central Conference 3Ieot at 'East 
Lansing-, 3Iich. 
June 8—^Xational Collegiate Cliampionslups at 
Chicajfo. 

For the third time in as many years, No­tre Dame was crowmed the Central Confer­ence indoor champion. Scoring in eveiy event but one. Coach John P. Nicholson's well balanced track squad rolled up a com­manding total of 44^/2 points, 11% points ahead of their nearest competitors, Michi­gan State, in the Notre Dame gymnasium March 9. Two hundred and forty-four athletes from seventeen mid-west schools competed. ' • 
Scoring heavily in the mile run and the sixty yard dash, the Irish jumped into a commanding lead early in the meet and were never headed. In a brilliant continu­ance of his meteor-like career. Captain Jack Elder equaled the world's record for sixty-yai-d dash three times in the course of the meet, making fifteen times in all that the Flying Fenian has performed his record equaling performance. Kenny Boagni fol­lowed his captain to the tape, his terrific finish carrying him across the line inches ahead of Parks of Drake, who was expected to at least place second to Elder, as he did last year. 
Dwight Kane, Ohio Wesleyan's great hurdler, repeated his double victory of last year by winning both the high and low hurdle races, in both instances equaling his own meet record for the event. Because of his gi-eat performance the week pre^nous at Wisconsin, Johnny O'Bi-ien was expected to give Kane a run for his money over the 

Track Champions 
highs, but unfortunately he knocked down two hurdles while winning a semi-final heat, thus automatically disqualifying him­self. The veteran Conlin ran Kane a close second in the highs, however. 
Lauren Brown ran what was possibly the best race of the day to win the two-mile, his keen judgement of pace carrying him from the ruck to the lead in the last half-mile of the race. . John Brown stayed close to the flying heels of Jones of Butler as he set a pace during the first part of the race, and when the down stater faltered, Brown continued on to finish a close second to his namesake. 
Tom Quigley ran a beautifully judged race to take the 440 by two yards from Kroll of Michigan State, the defending champion. Jack Eourke came to the end of a long, hard trail and proved himself to be a "great competitor" by taking the broad jump with a leap of 22 feet to ac­complish what was possibly the most start­ling upset of the meet. Big Bob Walsh seems to get better with age; he outclassed his field in the shot-put with a heave of 46 feet. 
Jim Biggins, sophomoi-e miler, cut out a terrific pace for the first half of the mile, only to crack badly in the second half, with Clark of Michigan State coming fi-om be­hind to •win over Bill Brown. McAtee of Michigan State flashed another good per­formance to crack the meet record for the pole-vault with a leap of 12 feet, 10%­inches, Butler's medley relay team put the end to a day of record-breakmg perform­ances by lowering the meet record for the event by a fifth of a second by virtue of a great last leg mile by Sivak. 
Although Notre Dame's track squad did not go through its dual meet season with a perfect record, not even with a \vinning one, ample proof was seen from time to time that Coach John P. Nicholson is beginning 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
to put the cinder sport back on its feet. Time was when Notre Dame's track teams were to be placed on a parity with any track athletes in the country, but a decline soon set in. Nicholson's efforts seem to point toward a resumption of Notre Dame's old place in the track sun. 
Coach Frank Hill and his Northwestern squad were the second victims of the sea­son, Indiana having pre\'iously been beaten, when, on Feb. 16 in the Notre Dame gym, they fell before the Fighting Irish, 58 to 
32. Notre Dame showed well in the mile run, two mile run, dashes and hurdles. Capt. Jack Elder gave a f e w indica­
CAPT, JACK ELDER tions of what 

he was to do later in the season, when he ran the "60" in world record time. Warne of North­western vaulted 13 feet, 5 inches to set a ne\i^ gym and world indoor mark. 
The week following, Harry Gill, the an­cient and effective track instructor at Illi­nois, brought his orange and blue squad to Notre Dame, and took it home again with newer experiences and a 61 1-3 to 33 2-3 victory to its credit. Gill had a typical Illi­nois squad—^powerful in every event and generously sprinkled with individual stars. 
Noti-e Dame showed much better than was expected against Illinois. For a while things looked as if the Irish might cop the meet, but Illinois scored heavily in the high jump, two-mile run and broad jump as the meet went on, and had things "on the ice" before the last event was called. Jack Elder equaled the record again (we forget wheth­er it was once or twice—he hasn't been consistent that way this season) in the 60 yard dash and Capt. Dave Abbott of Illi­nois won the two-mile rather easily. 
Johnny O'Biuen took all the honors when Notre Dame went to Wisconsin on March 2 for a dual meet. Johnny stepped the 40 yard high hurdles in :05.3 seconds, which is the world and Wisconsin record for that event. Wisconsin is one of the few places where they confine themselves to 40 yards, but Johnny thought he might as well have a record while he was about his coach's business. Jack Elder won the "40' from Capt. Larson of Wisconsin, although it is a matter of general knowledge that the Ken­tucky flier cannot get up his usual speed in so short a distance. 

Considered from every angle, the indoor season was a success, for it provided two dual victories, two dual defeats and a championship meet victory. Coach Nichol­son's team has a hard assignment out-of­doors, including two dual meets and several championship and relay affairs. 
BASKETBALL 
BASKETBAI,!. SCHEDlTLi: 

Dec. 10—^Armour Tech 14, Jfotre Dame 51. 
Dec. 15—^Albion College 8, Xotre Dame 15. 
Dec. 18—^Xortlnvestem University 18, If. D. 14. 
Dec. 21—UniTersity of Indiana 27, X. D. 19. 
Dec. 28—^University of Kansas 21, N. D. 32. 
Dec. 29—^University of Kansas 17, 3f. D. 29. 
Jan. 5—University of Detroit 14, N, D. 49. 
Jan. 9—^AVabasli 19, Jfotre Dame 42. 
Jan. 12—Kentucky 19, Xotre Dame 16. 
Jan. 19—^Teimsylvama 19, Xotre Dame 32. 
Jan. 23—^Alicliigan State 24, Xotre Dame 29. 
Jan. 26—XortUwestem 27, Xotre Dame 24. 
Feb. 2—IVabasIi 23, Xotre Dame 26. 
Feb. 5—Jlarqnette 17, Xotre Dome 29. 
Feb. 9—^Pittsburgli 23, Xotre Dame 33. 
Feb. 15—^Butler University 21, X'otre Dame 24. 
Feb. 22—^ncli. State Collejje 27, Xotre Dame 28. 
Feb. 23—University of Detroit 16, X. D. 19. 
Mar. 2—aiarquette University 16, X. D. 19. 
Mar. 8—^Butler University 35, Xotre Dame 16. 
Butler University overwhelmed Notre Dame Friday night, March 8, by a score of 35 to 16, but, as the old saw goes, E.ome wasn't built in a day, nor can a basketball season be determined in one night. The Butler Bulldogs defeated Notre Dame in the finale of the season, yet no one vn\l doubt that George Keogan's Fighting Irish lived up to the basketball tradition that has been Noti-e Dame's these last five or six years. 
One shouldn't detract from, the Butler victory; the score was too impressive for that. The Bulldog stars, irked a bit by the 24 to 21 setback they received three weeks before from Notre Dame and irked even more because that setback had blasted their hopes for a national championship, tore into their Irish foes with a revengeful zest and had the game well on ice before things had fairly begun. 
Captain Joe Jachym drew first blood a moment after the game opened when he took a pass from Johnny Colrick and dispatched it through the hoop. Then Butler went in to a 6-2 lead which Notre Dame, by dint of much hard play, reduced to 6-5 with the first half nearing the middle mark. Butler began to pull away at that point and the first period ended with the Bulldogs on the long end of a 17-6 count. 
Coach Tony Hinkle's Bulldogs didn't re­lent much in the last half. Due mainly to the efforts of one Oral Hildebrand, a tall, angular lad, Butler ran its margin to 23-6 two minutes after the second half had be­gun. Notre Dame made a desperate i-ally, but it was good for only five points and the Irish feU back into a defensive formation, ti-ying with all their might and main to stem the Butler tide. As has been said be­fore, Butler won the ball game, 35 to 16. 
A kind of portent of the impending dis­aster was furnished on Feb. 23 and March 2 when the Irish whipped Detroit Uni­versity, 19 to 16 at Detroit and defeated Mai-quette, 19 to 16 on the home floor. Keogan's lads had di-ubbed Detroit 45 to 14 earlier in the season, and had nicked Mar­quette easily, 29 to 17 at Milwaukee early in February, but the strain of a hard sea­son had begun to tell. 
The two games previous to the Detroit and Marquette clashes were noteworthy, however, for they found the Irish in the midst of a rush that was one of the fea­tures of the 1929 collegiate season. After whipping the great University of Pitts­burgh five, 33 to 23 on the home court, Friday, Feb. 9, George Keogan's tossers went to Indianapolis and Butler Univers­ity's Fairview field house. Just nine thou­sand frenzied (press reports) spectators watched Notre Dame lace Butler, 24 to 21, after leading at the half by a single point. Butler had not lost to anyone except the University of Chicago this year. 
The week following Notre Dame traveled to East Lansing, where, according to dope, Michigan State was primed to whip the Irish as a revenge measure for the whip­ping which Michigan State had taken late in January. After playing two overtime periods, during which "Ooney" Donovan played the hero role twice, finally winning the game in the last minute with a long toss, Notre Dame was crowned victor by a 28-27 score. 
Taking everything into consideration, it was a highly successful season. Notre Dame managed to lose four games out of the first twelve and then bucked up to win seven out of its last eight for a season's 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
record of 15 victories and five defeats. Such stellar basketball quintets as the University of Pennsylvania, eastern intercollegiate champions, Kansas, Pittsburgh, which won the 1927 national title and had won nine straight before it came to Notre Dame, Michigan State, Butler and Wabash were trimmed by the Keogan proteges. 
The Butler game mai-ked the final game of their college career for six Irish stars. Frankie Crowe and Joe Jachym, the co-captains, Johnny Colrick, Jim Bray, Bob Newbold and Tim Moynihan ended their competition in that game. Following as they did the great combination of Clem Crowe, Vince McNally, Johnny Nyikos, Bucky Dahman and Louie Conroy, who made Notre Dame basketball what it is, the present bunch of stars distinguished them­selves. During their three years of compe­tition, the present batch of athletes won 53 games and lost 11. 
BASEB.U^L Apr. 1 and 2—Loiiiel Baker at Brownwood, 
Texas. Apli. 3 and 4—^Baylor at Waco, Texas. Apr. 5—Southern Methodist at Dallas, Texas. Apr. 6—Texas A. and M. at CoUege Station. 
REGUI/AR SEIASON Apr. 18—Wabash at Xotre Dame. .\pr. 22—^lowa at Notre Dame. Apr. 2-1—IVestem State Xormal at Notre Dame. Apr. 27—I.nke Forest at Xotre Dame. Apr. 29—Indiana at Xotre Dame. May 1—^Wisconsin at Madison. Way 3—^lowa at lona City. May 4—^Drake at Des Moines. 3Iay 10—^Michigan at East Lansingr. Jlay 11—Xorthwestem at Xotre Dame. May 1-1—^Bradley at Notre Dame. May 17—Illinois at Urbana. May 18—Coe College at Notre Dame. May 20—OsaloL-Mainichi University (Japan) 
at Notre Dame. May 22—Butler at Notre Dame. May 24 and 25—^^linnesota at Minneapolis. 3Iay 27 and 38—3Iarshall at Notre Dame. May 31—^Visconsin at Notre Dame. June 1—^Jlichijjan State at Notre Dame. 
—* 


EDITORIAL 
*P W—-Oi^—MB—M—W^—«—ia-^BI^—•-^•1—•l-^»l—•«—>W 1 
PUBLIC  Publicity has been accorded  
EELATIONS  to  Notre  Dame  in  large  
measure.  It has  come as  a  

reward for victory and an answer to popu­lar demand. Unfortunately the demand has not been entirely as balanced as the activi­ties of the University itself. Popular in­terest in athletics has brought the great re­sponse in the publicity of all schools to ath­letic features. The Editor holds that this is deserved publicity, that it is constructive publicity, and that it should continue with all possible force. It contributes a clean, wholesome subject matter for American readers when such subjects are all too rare. It presents a fine and attractive pic­ture of the schools to prospective students. 
The fault with publicity at Notre Dame, as at many other schools, is that the academic side of the University has been allowed to stay too far in the background. The demand from outside has not been keen because the academic side of the school is not played before crowds of 122,000 people in Chicago or in the Yankee stadium in New York. The result is that when Father 
•4 

Charles O'Donnell, in his speech to the New York alumni, referred to football glory as a bubble, and in the same speech mentioned the proposed stadium, many papers took the occasion to bring up again all the fallacious comments that have accompanied the un­informed discussion of Notre Dame in a large part of the public press. The in­dividual cases are negligible. It is as gen­eral opinion that they command attention. 
In the fii-st place Notre Dame's consistent success in athletics is a mystery to her edu­cational contemporaries and to the public. "Athletics" is used because Notre Dame's records in baseball, track and basketball compare very well with those of any school in the country. Here at Notre Dame the consistency of Notre Dame's program of athletics is very easily explained. There are hundreds of boys, limited rather strictly in ofF-campus activities, free from the dis­tractions of co-education and fraternities, boarding and rooming under conditions most conducive to general health. Isn't athletics the natural program of recreation? And shouldn't these boys, like the boys in 
the West Point and Annapolis academies, 
be constantly in the physical and mental 
condition that goes a long way toward vic­
tory? 
A chai-ge gi-owing out of the apparent in­

ability to explain Notre Dame's consistency 
is of course a high commercialization of 
athletics. It seems that only actual preju­
dice could bolster up this charge. The 
plentiful material at Notre Dame—and it 
isn't as plentiful as manj' believe—is 
attributable to the natural conditions that 
exist, and the fact that young athletes have 
been attracted by the victories and attend­
ant publicity of the Notre Dame teams. 
Public interest has placed Notre Dame 

among the teams that draw constantly the 
largest crowds for intercollegiate sports. 
Football records were broken at the Notre 
Dame-Navy game in Chicago last year, 
122,000 people witnessing the game. Notre 
Dame's basketball team filled the Palestra 
in Philadelphia to overflowing this %vinter, 
one of the largest basketball ci'owds ever 
assembled. Naturally the profits from these 
games exceed the cost of the athletic pro­
gram rather considerably. It is on this 
point that even those more closely con­
nected with the University sometimes 
stumble. 
The facts are that the public athletic profits support a system of intra-mural sports that brings health and wholesome recreation to the gi-eat majority of students unable to participate in varsity athletics. This year the Inter-Hall League trained and equipped twelve complete football and basketball teams and will continue its ac­tivities this spring with twelve complete track and baseball teams. These teams are all well-equipped and there is no revenue from these sports. But it brings the bene­fits of athletics to added hundreds. 
Obviously profits still remain. These pi-ofits have been a God-send to Notre Dame. With an endowment of one million dollars, negligible in the ijresent educational system; with 2600 students at the inade­quate tuition of two hundred dollars a year; with a growing lay faculty, now numbering 109, to pay; with the traditionally lax financial support of alumni and Catholics in general; mth no so-called Church sup­port (an idea that the Editor just recently encountered in a most friendly source); whatever money the public has enabled the University to make from its natural ath­letic program is decidedly only the finger in the dike, to use a figure, that is desper­ately stemming the financial flood until the proper support can be applied. 
This has explained only the destructive criticism that the uninformed have made. It is up to the alumni, in rather large measure, to dissipate these too frequent aberrations. The ALUMNUS attempts to bring out in all its issues the various con­structive phases of Notre Dame. You know many of them from your own experience. Keep read up through the ALUMNUS. And when you see some adverse criticism as unfounded as most of them are, attend to its correction. 
CLASSES Class organization in the Notre 
Dame Alumni Association is 

weak. This can be explained in several 
ways, but it resolves itself into a combina­
tion of faults. The blame doesn't fall upon 
any particular set of shouldei-s. The only 
object of this comment is to effect a remedy. 
Development of Local Clubs has, to a cer­tain extent, been instrumental in taking away interest from the Classes. Geographi­cal contacts are of course more frequent after graduation than Class contacts, and the development on the campus of geo­gi-aphical units makes this condition even more prevalent. It has been suggested that the present system of Class Notes be dis­continued and replaced by similar personal information under the Club headings. 
Tlie Editor doesn't agree with this sug­gestion. No matter what conditions or or­ganizations existed on the campus when you were at Notre Dame, you necessarily made many friends in your Class or the imme­diate Classes who will always be cherished. 
Class contacts, it is true, are largely a matter of sentiment after gi-aduation. The Clubs have their decidedly practical points. For a few years after graduation life's practical side demands almost exclusive attention. But sentiment increases with stability, and it really isn't long before you are wondering where your Classmates are, what they ai*e doing. If it doesn't add a dollar to your bank account, it is something that your whole bank account can't buy for you. 
Class secretaries have suffered mental and physical anguish. (There are a few ex­ceptions, but they will understand.) The physical has been caused by the constant pleas from the Editor for news. The men­tal has been from the lack of cooperation and news from the members of the Class. The Secretary, you understand, is not a fic­tion writer or an historian. He is, theor­etically, the most practicable channel by which the stormy sea of life, as the Com­mencement oration has it, can be subjugated for the iri-igation of the several pages of white enamel desert set aside monthly in the ALUMNUS. 
All the Classes, with the possible e.xcep­tion of '28, '26, and '23, are open to criti­cism, and these Classes owe their success largely to the earnest effox-ts of Louis Buckley, Jerry Hayes and Johnny Mon­tague, their respective Secretaries. The Alumiii Office is more than \villing to co­operate in sending out Class Letters and furnishing lists. Get behind your Class Secretary. If he isn't pulling you, push him. To quote an expression whose merit shines through its triteness, "It's for your own good." 
ICAAAA REJECTS N. D. 

As the ALUMNUS goes to press a con­firmed statement has been received by the University that Notre Dame's application for membership in the Intercollegiate A. A. 
A. A. has been rejected. No details ac­companied the statement from the Associa­tion, and the athletic authorities at the Uni­versity are at a loss to explain the action. The announcement in the public press at­tributed the i-ejection to scholastic stand­ards and eligibility rules. Notre Dame is awaiting more definite facts before taking further action. But the fact that the Car­negie Foundation praised the scholastic standards at the University, and the fact that Notre Dame is in competition in all sports with the Big Ten, whose standards are considered the highest in the country, and are those which control Notre Dame athletics, would indicate that there must be some misunderstanding in the matter. 
SENIOR BALL 

Senior Ball committees have been an­nounced. As the list seems to coincide with the list of graduates, the ALUMNUS is go­ing to have to content itself with some of the outstanding chairmen. Jack Eeilly, Morristown, N. J., a senior A. B., is general chairman. Thomas Casey, Chicago, a senior Lawyer, is chairman of the music commit­tee. Lawrence P. Lawless, Cleveland, Ohio, a senior architect, is chairman of the decor­ations. 
Maybe you don't like this harping on dues. But it's an old Irish custom. 
THEO. MAYNARD TO TEACH 
The University has announced that Theo­
dore Maynard, distinguished Catholic poet 
and educator, will join the faculty in the 
1929 Summer School. He is at present a 
member of the English faculty at George­
town. Professor Maynard Avill teach 
courses on "The Romantic Movement" and 
"Modern Catholic Poetry." 
Among the best knowTi vvorks of Pro­fessor Ma3mard are: "A Tankard of Ale," "Folly and Other Poems," "Contemporary Catholic Poems," an anthology, and "Book of Modern Catholic Prose," also an anthol­ogy. 
"JULIUS CAESAR" 

Old-timers ought to get a thrill out of the news that "Julius Caesar" is the attrac­tion on the Washington Hall stage March 17 this year. The University Theater pro­duces an annual St. Patrick's Day program and it is creating much favorable comment on and off the campus this year by the re­vival of the old tragedy. Much work has been put into the production, and it prom­ises to be a most excellent presentation of the difficult old drama. 
MORE PAM PHILANTROPHY 
Newspapei'S recently stated that $150,­000 of the estate of Max Pam, founder of the chair of Journalism at the University, who died in 1925, has been given by his executors to endow a Metabolic Clinic at the Michael Reese Memorial Hospital in Chicago. 
FR. WALSH ILL 
The ALUMNUS regrets to announce the recent serious illness of Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C, '03, former president of the University. Father Walsh was stricken suddenly with pneumonia and for some time there was serious doubt of his recov­ery. Fortunately Father Walsh is npw on the road to recovery, but his convalescence is slow. 


PROFESSORS' SALARIES 
A committee of Yale professors has de­cided that a standard of living for pro­fessors equal to that enjoyed by men of similar rank in other professions calls for a salary of §15,000 a yeai\ The Harvard alumni magazine comments that "profes­sors are seldom paid half that sum" and out in California the average expenditure of a large percentage of the faculty of the U. of C. was discovered to be $5,000 annually, described as "the minimum cost of health and decency." To those familiar with the salaries of professors and instruc­tors everywhere, the need of increased en­dowments for salaries is evident, and the value of the Religious teachers is en­hanced. 


MONOGRAM ABSURDITIES 

The Absurdities will be given in Wash­ington Hall, March 20, 21 and 23. Coach Tommy Mills has developed a series of skits that promise to put this year's performance ahead of the many interesting perfomances of previous years. Most of the prominent monogram men have been impanelled for service. 
THESE INDIANA NAMES. "I'm feelin' Moody. Davis a dime, mister. The water is Riley and I want to get an 
orange Ade."  
"Here's  a  Nicholson.  Get  a  cheaper  
Beveridge."  {Juggler.)  
Quick, Watson, the nee dle!  
—4 ,  

THE ALUMNI 
DEATHS 
'THOMAS H. CURRAX, Ph.G. 'IC, died February 9, at St. Mary's Hospital at Decatur. III. Death was caused by pneumonia following an attack of influenza. Mr. Curran was for a while manager of the Oliver Hotel Drug Store. At the time of his death he was manager of the Walgreen Drug Store at Decatur. 
He is survived by his two children, Thomas H. Jr., and Clarice, his parents, Mr. and Mrs. George 
H. Curran of Belvidere, five sisters and a brother. 0 The ALTJMXUS has just recently learned of the death on December 11, of Mrs. Josephine Rahe, in Madison, Indiana. Mrs. Rahe was the mother of JOHX S. RAHE, '22 and P.A.UL A. R.\HE, '25. 0 The ALUMNUS regrets to learn of the recent death of, the father of CL.\REXCE KAISER, '25. 0 Announcement has also been received of the 
death of the mother of D, J. C.4.RR, '22. 0 • 
J. PAUL LOOSEX, '20, sends word that his father, Franz Loosen died January S. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Jlrs. WILLIAM G. 3IURPHT '22, an­nounce the birth of Bill, Jr., February 11, 1929. 
._.+ 

The ALUilXUS has just learned that FRANK D. CELEBREZZE, Jr., arrived last November and is doing fine at 3543 Lloyd Road, Cleveland, Ohio. 
Frank,  Sr.,  '25,  is  Assistant County Prosecutor  
with  RAT MILLER,  '14.  
0  

Mr. and Mrs. J. MELVIN ROHRB.A.CH, '23, are the parents of a son born December 15, but escap­ing the ALUMNUS until the present time. Jlel is living in Crown Point, Ind., that haven of romance. 
SL^RRIAGES 

EDW.ARD N. ANDERSON, '22, former all­-American end and now coach at DePaul University in Chicago was married on February 11 to Miss Mary Angela Broderick. 
O 

JOSEPH MURPHT, '27, was married on Febru­ary 7 to Miss Irene Bowen of Chicago in the Log-Chapel at Notre Dame. The ceremony was per­formed by Rev. CHARLES DOREinS, C.S.C, 'Ofl. 
0 DONALD LASKET, '27, was married on Febru­ary 5 to Miss Beverly Prince in Shreveport, La. 0 
EDWARD WM. FREITAS, '28, Avas married onr February 9 to Miss Frances Pass! in San Carlos, Calif. 
Late news from B. VIXBCEKT PATER. '22, re­veals that he was married September IS to Miss Esther Gormley, a graduate of Sacred Heart Col­lege. Cincinnati, Ohio. A'ince is practicing Law at Corner of Gray and Emerson Avenue, Hamilton, Ohio. 
0 

Another late announcement brings the word that ROMAN C. PELDEPATJSCH, '26, was married August 6. He is living at 1120 S. Church St., Hastings, Jlichigan, and is in business with his father. 
0 
ENGAGEMENTS 

THOMAS S. HODGSON, '24, is engaged to Miss Ruth Pithlado Kent, of Minneapolis. The announce­ment was made at Cliristmas time. Tom is prac­ticing Law in Manljato. Miss Kent formerly lived in Winnipeg. No definite date has been set for the wedding. 
STAN BRADBURY writes from Chicago: TOSI DONOVAN, '24, became ollicially engaged to Miss JIary Cunningham, of Chicago on February -11. \Vhen the wedding takes place his friends are plan­ning a celebration which will make an N. D. vic­tory over Army look tame. And when you speak of Tom's friends you take in about half of the population of Chicago. 
Tlie bethrotal of Miss Regina Coleman to CHAR­LES ROBRECHT, '24, was announced last month in Wheeling. West Virginia. Miss Coleman is a graduate of Mount de Chantal -\cademy. Charley is down in Baton Rouge, La., at present, with the Standard Oil Co. No date has been set for the wedding. 
.A.nother belated item tells of the Christmas en­gagement of FRANK KEEFE, '27, to Miss Ger­trude Hazard. 
PERSONAL 1880-1885 

Prof. Robt. M. Anderson, Stevens Inst, of Tech. 
Hoboken, N. J., Secretary. 

The following interesting letter has been received 
from PROFESSOR ROBERT M. .-VNDERSON: 
The National Advisory Committee for Auranau­
tics has published an interesting bulletin entitled 
"Report No. 2S7 Theories of Flow Similitude" by 
our ALBERT F. ZAHM; from which we note that 
he indulges in light mental exercises; but seriously 
Doctor Zahm's paper is a very timely and impor­
tant addition to the scientific study of auronautics. 
DR. WILLIAM H. and MADAM ARNOLD \yhen 
heard from last Christmas were in Central Europe 
and were planning to return to this land of Vol­
stead this Spring. 
The most loyal Notre Dame alumnus, devoted 
class mate and faithful correspondent is the one 
SAjrUEL P. TERRY, M. D., of No. 1S34 San Jose 
Avenue, Alameda, California. 
Sam has been in active correspondence with 
many of his college mates of Notre Dame, and 
burning coals have been heaped on me by several long and newsy letters written within the past eighteen months—and witliout a scratch in reply. 
Terry wrote of having received a letter from CHARLES J. M'DERMOTT of Stockport, Ohio, in­forming him that he had married In 1898, that he had four daughters, two of whom were students at the Ohio University and one son who was en­tering Harvard Medical School, and that he was doing well in the general merchandising business. A few monthse later Doctor Terry received a let­ter from one of the daughters that her father had been instantly killed in an automobile accident. 
HECTOR B. DULANY who wiH be remembered by the students of the early eighties is at present living at the Elks club in Los Angeles. He had had a varied and checkered experience since de­parting from Notre Dame, and at present has oil and land interests in Texas and California. Ac­cording to TeriT he is smooth faced, good looking, well dressed and has the air of prosperity. Du­lany came to Notre Dame from Marshall, Illinois, and with him were two cousins—^^Varren and Ben Schofield, the latter is farming near his old home of Marshall, Illinois. 
BEN POLLOCK who was from Burlington, Iowa, is in the lumber business in St. Louis and GEO. TRACY is still in Burlington, taking life easj- an.l playing golf. 
TOM HALE, otherwise known to his schoolmates as "Bunkerhill" is prospecting in the lumber busi­ness at Pryor, Oklahoma. 
When last heard from Dr. Terry was in Los .A.ngeles with Mrs. Terry on their way homeward after three months spent by the Doctor under the care of an old friend who is the head of The New Highland Sanitarium at Martinsville, Indiana. He had been for several years afflicted with rheumat­ism, and after his sojourn in Indiana he writes that he is somewhat like a man with his leg shot off, not sick but somewhat disabled. 
WM. JUSTIN M'C.\RTHY is with the treasury department of the Southern Life Insurance Com­pany of Cincinnati, in Cincinnati, Ohio, and when he wrote was living at the Newland Hotel on Fifth street. 
1894 

Hugh -\. O'Donnell, The New York Times, New 
York City, Secretary. 

FRANK L. CARNEY, Litt. '94, temporarily lo­
cated in New York City, has been confined to Bel­
le\-ue Hospital during the past week. Enroute 
home to his residence he was waylaid and robbed 
at 5:00 p. m. in the llCth Street Station of the 
Subway. The highwayman struck him from be­
hind witli a blunt instrument, then just above his 
temple. At first it was feared that Mr. Carney had 
a fractured skull. But the ex-rays proved other­
wise. 
I could give far more news about most any other 
class than my own. The class of '94 was not 
very large. Those who belong to it are scattered 
throughout the country. 
There was a time not so long ago when HON. 
NICHOLAS J. SINNOTT of Oregon, who has been 
a congressman almost since the year he was grad­
uated, paid me calls, evidently he has cut me from 
his list. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
WILL CORRBLL, formerly of JlcVeytow^n, Penn., and now in the big city of Johnstown of that state, would personally give a report of the tre­mendous activities of his burg. His motor car is either out of order or he is kept busy burying the dead, for when I last knew him he was the under­taker in three small towns near Johnstown. He took an engineering course at Notre Dame. 
"NED" JEWETT is most elusive. He is so busy making "millions" in the radio business that a first class dinner with all that goes with it is not sufficient lure to get him to stay in the city long enough to make good with me. He is constantly in and out of town. I never can tell which. But, I understand, he is willing to "throw" for any excitement and just as willing to pay if he loses. 
If you ask me to write about the youngsters 

, who have been graduated during recent years I will require more space than you can afford to give. 
1903 
Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis., Secretary. 

A note from JOHN H. NEESON states that Ills address has been changed from 232 City Hall, Philadelphia, to 1103 City Hall Anne.x. 
1906 

Thomas A. Lally, 811-813 Paulsen Bldg., Spokane, Wash., Secretary. 
The ALUMNUS lear.is that a recent issue of the news edition of Industrial and Engineering Chem­istry carried a notice that the LaCrosse Rubber Mills Company, LaCrosse, Wisconsin, has proposed to erect additions to the plant at a cost of ap­proximately $100,000. ARTHUR S. FUNK is Pres­ident and General Manager of the Company. Mr. Funk was formerly an instructor in the Depart­ment of Chemistry at Notre Dame. 
1910 
Rev. M. L. Moriarty, Wooster, O., Secretary. 

An interesting letter canie last month from BISHOP FINNIGAN, indicating that religion in Montana keeps a Bishop as busy as elsewhere if not moreso. Besides preaching various Lenten sermons Bisliop Finnigan was scheduled to enter­tain the Montana Legislattire at Mount St. Charles College, address the Association of University Women, and the last part of February visit the Blackfeet Reservation for the mid winter fair and assist the Government and the pastor on the Re­servation in trj-ing to bring various and sundry improvements to the Indians. 
1912 
Edmund H. Savord, Box 135, Sandusky, Ohio, Secretary. 

Members of the Class of 1912 will be interested in noting under local Alumni Clubs the election of JOHN COSTELLO as the new President of the Chicago Club. 
1914 
Frank H. Hayes, 25 N. Dearborn St. Secretary. FRNNK HATES, who is by the way spending a 

few weeks in Texas, wrote before he left that 
TWOMEY CLIFFORD Prosecuting Attorney of 
Ouachita County, Arkansas, had sent word that the 
oil boom, in his territory was producing plenty of 
work for the Prosecutor's Office at Camden. Twom­
ey also that he expected to be present at the 
Alumni Reunion in June. 
A note was received from FRANK J. KIRCH­

MAN, Jr. Frank is married, has two children and is 
in the banking business in Wahoo, Nebraska. 
LEO C. GEELAN Tvho is a traveling salesman 

out of Sioux Falls, South Dakota, 603 N. Menlo to 
be exact, says that there are several N. D. men 
there among them THEODORE FEYDER, JOE 
SCirn^ARTZ, the KIRBY boys, and several more. 
1917 

John U. Riley, 244 Washington St., Boston, Mass. 
Secretary. 
DA>:NY HILGARTNER, besides being down sev­

eral times recently for various events, dropped a 
note in which he stated that RIGNEY SACKXEY 
is enjoying a winter vacation with his family in 
Florida and Cuba. Rig said he saw CLIFF MER­
RIMAN, an old student in '13-14-15 in Havana. 
Definite Avord is also received that J. PAUL FOGARTY is now Production Manager of the Edgewater Beach Hotel, Chicago. The Editor has seen a number of Paul's contributions to the Wake of the News in the Chicago Tribune. 
1918 

John A. Lenmier. 309 S. Seventh St., Escanaba, 
Mich., Secretary. 

NORBERT G. MONNING drops a note from Chattanooga that he is engaged in the practice of architecture there under the firm name of Louis 
H. Bull—Norbert G. Monning, 1031 Ai'olunteer Bldg. 
1920 
Vincent Fagan, Notre Dame 
Secretary. 

JL J. "CLIPPER" SSriTH has signed a five year contract with Gonzaga at an increase over his present salary of $0000 per, according to dope from the Pacific coast. 
AVALT MILLER is in Chicago with Otis & Com­pany and gives every promise of being a red hot bond salesman, according to one of his Chicago friends. 
1921 

Alden J. Cusick, 1940 Curtis Ave., Denver, Colo., 
Secretary. 

JAMES H. HUXFORD, Jr., drops a note from 101 Genesee St., Skaneateles, New York, inviting any Notre Dame Engineers to look him up any time they are In Syracuse. Jim is power engineer with the Syracuse Lighting Co., 421 S. Warren St., Syracuse, New York. 
1922 
Frank Blasius, Jr., 24 Main St, Losan, Ohio, 
Secretary. 

SYLVESTER A. STEINLE is managing the local pro baseball team at New Washington, Ohio, and is having great success according to word received from another alumnus there. 
A.\RON HUGUENARD who has been teaching in the Law School in addition to his regular law 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
This page of advertising is made possible by the generosity of the 
following members and friends of the 

Notre Dame Club 
of the 

City of New York 
22 East Thirty-Eighth Street 
WILLIAM E. COTTER LOUIS P. DOYLE 
PHIL J. DOHERTY WILLIAM A. DAUNT 
COYNE & COMPANY 
AMBROSE O'CONNELL 
Mail Advertising 
131 DUANE STEEET 
PETER P. McELLIGOTT 
FRANK WALLACE 
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW 
320 West Twenty-Third Street 

JOHN T. BALFE 
Personal Insurance 
Life Insurance Trusts Corporation Insurance Inlieritance Taxes Underwi'itten Graybar Building NEW YORK CITY 
THE NOTRE DAJIE ALUMNUS 
6 
DAILY 
TRAINS 
to 
California 
this vdnter 
Details from 
E. P. Fisher, Gen. Agent, Santa Fe Ry. 
311 Merchants Bank Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. 
Phone: Riley 3077 

work with M'INERNT & M'INERNY drops a note to say that FR.^NK HUGHES is with the Chicago Title and Trust Co., is married and has one baby, and wears glasses jiennanently. 
JERRY' ASHE of Rochester, New Y'ork. is one of the holders of the doubles bowling cham))ionship of the Merchants Dispatch according to informa­tion. 
EGON C. von MERTELDT who has been in Cuba and South America for the last five and a half years is now with the Byllesby Engineering Co., with offices in Oklahoma City. 
1923 
John Montague, 1448 Albion St., Chicago, 
Secretary. 

If Notre Dame was a correspondence scliool, last instead of from his roadster, and in touring around we talked of TOM LIEB and GUS DESCH, of DICK NASH and HENRY B.ARNHART, of ED SHEA and FRANK WALLACE and JOHN BYRNE and PIO MONTENEGRO, of NELS CAL­L.AHAN and the two little CALLAHANS, of CY NEFF and the four little NEFFS. 
3Iy trip from Cleveland was the first time the 

N. Y. C. Pullmans did not rock me to sleep. After meeting all those fellows and talking so much about Notre Dame, I got thinking some more. I thought of HOLLY GRINAGER and of the re­union picture I owe him. I thought of MICKEY KANE and of HAROLD HAYNES, of RED KEN­NEDY and BILL SHARP, of CORNIE PFEIFFER, of ED KREIMER, and of the hours I have spent on those same Pullmans with GUS DESCH, JOHN MURPHY, ED HOGAK,.and AL, FICKS. week would have been a reunion for me, as it was you might call it a commencement week in miniature. It was a week of constant contact with '23 men, and instead of satisfying the hun­ger to meet with the friends of Notre Dame days, it seemed only to sharpen the desire. 
•\VhlIe making a. business call in Toledo I ran into the law offices of JOHN COCHORTNE and EMERY TOTH, Toth has not changed a bit since his undergraduate days as it was ten o'clock in the morning and he had not yet been seen. JOHN broke away from a conference and together we hashed over other days. We talked of LYL.E MILLER, and DAN LYNCH, and ED GOULD, and others of the law school. 
At the weekly luncheon of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland, I was with JOHN GLEASON and JOHN CHAPLA. Chapla is in the brokerage business with offices in the Terminal building, Cleveland's new fifty-two story monument to the Van Sweringens (not to mention JOHN MURPHT, past President of the Alumni Assn.) JOHN GLEA­SON is a partner in the law firm of Quigley and Gleason, and is keeping bachelor quarters with his brother CLINT, in the Allerton Club. After the luncheon the three of us winded our way through a suite of offices in the Davis and Farley Building until we came to the office of the boss, and there, behind a desk as large as one of the old Badin Hall pool tables, sat JOHN FLYNN. 
The next day was cold and snowy so John 
-«l^—»—M^—Wl— 


Compliments 
Amalgamated Vaudeville Agency, Inc. 

1600 Broadway  I  
New York City  \  
X  
* —  I  

THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
Flynn elected to show me Cleveland from his sedan 
When I returned to the peace loving, law abid­ing community of Chicago I found awaiting me a letter from CHARLES MARTIN In which he ad­mitted he had not bought a ticket for South Bend at next Commencement time, but he is going to do so as soon as possible. 
I suppose, Jim, you have heard from the Secre­tary of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, of the great success of the Annual Dinner on February twenty first. But I will wager that the Club Sec. did not even mention the crowd that got together around a table after the speeches were done. There was GEORGE O'GRADY, DICK NASH, JOHN STEPHEN, ED GOULD, MARTY BRENNAN. JAMES E. MARTIN, J.\MES R. MARTIN, DAN CULHANE, RODGE KILEY, JOE HENDERBER­RY. TOM COOK, GENE HINES and myself. If there was a single '23 man who did not spring into remembrance in that crowd that night It must have been one of the fellows who got an honorary degree the year we got the other kind. 
Sorry, I haven't more news for you Jim, but I am warning you right now to keep plenty of space open in the April ALUMNUS for the "23 notes, and I know that Is what you want. 
A letter from 'MIKE SEYFRIT slates that he has entered into the firm of Snell & Seyfrit and is bus}- in the practice of Law. He says that GERRY' DIXON and HICK CARMODY of the Class of '22 have been in to see them and that they live the days of "amen corner" over again. He suggests that Father Sloloney in Corby could add a num­ber of details. Mike says that If ED DEGREE, MICKEY" KANE or HECTOR GARVBY see this item to write. 
STAN BB.4.DBUKY, who is Assistant to the Gen­eral Counsel for the Chicago Surface Lines, writes that MATT KEEGAN has been transferred from Peoria to Chicago with the Linde Air Products Company, 
CORNIE PFEIFFER is busy down in Louisville helping to organize the new University Club there. 
1924 

James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave., New York City, Secretary. 
WILLIAM J. "CURLEY" ASH has returned from Florida and has taken charge of the pub­licity for the Indianapolis Community Chest cam­paign. Curley's experience with Florida chambers of commerce ought to stuff the Indianapolis chest to capacity. 
GEORGE HAMILTON has recently been trans­ferred from Milwaukee to New Y'ork according to a recent note. 
PAUL LAUTERMILCH drops a line to say that he has removed to Tiffin, Ohio, with his wife and Paul A. n., after being employed with the City of Cleveland Division of Light and Power for the past three years. Paul Is now located as Assist­ant Chief Engineer with the Quincy Elevator Gate Company. 
A note from JOHN L. DEGUKSE says that he is back with the Standard Accident Insurance Com­pany as Supervisor of Claims for the Indiana Branch with offices on the 6th floor of the Fletch­er Trust BIdg., Indlanapolisi John is living at the 
What Part of My Income Can I Lay Aside for Life Insurance? 
C
ONCRETE FACTS speak louder than words. 
Here is the actual program of a young man, 28. meuried. with two children. His income is $5,000 a year. 
The annucil premiums amount to about $600, leaving a balance of $4,400 for the support of his family, an easy proposition for ambitious young parents looking to the future. 
What does he get for his $600? An estate of $30,000, $5,000 to be pEiid in cash at his death, the rest held in trust to pay $100 a month to his widow during her lifetime, the remeuning principal to go to the children after her death. If you are interested in arranging an estate for yourself, let us help you make your plans to suit your own needs. 
INQUIRY BUREAU 
LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY^ 
OF BOSTON. MASSACHUSETTS 

197 CLARENDON ST., BOSTON, MASS. 
I am interested in building an estate along the lines described in your ad­vertisement. Please send me further information. 
Name 
Address. 
Indianapolis Athletic Cluh. He says he has seen many of the old gang in his travels—ED DEGREE, GUS STANCE, WALT MORAN, PETE CRAT, and many others, all doing •well. 
The ALUMNUS in informed that BOB REAGAN has signed a three year contract with Villa Nova. 
1925 
John W. Scallan, 703 Pullman Bldg., 79 W. Adams St., Chicago, Secretary. 
E. A. WILLINGHANZ recently spoke before the Ohio Northern section of the American Chemical Society. Willinghanz is in the Research Depart­ment of the Sharpies Solvent Company of Charles-town, W'est Virginia. 
NORBERT "DUKE" CL.\NCT and GEORGE KOCH are to all appearances intending to relin­quish their bachelor freedom, according to inside information. 
EDDIE WELSH Is located In Pontiac with the Co-Operative Savings and Loan Association. ROY PAULT is also in Pontiac, Draft Teller with the Pontiac Comnvercial and Savings Bank. 
HAROLD HALL drops a note that he doesn't know anything of interest except that Dick, his seven months old baby, had just cut two teeth and that he was promoted to Assistant Manager of the Educational Division of the Pictoral Re\'iew Company. This last was Harold himself. He is now located at 10 Post Avenue, New Tork City. 
JAMES IC HAMMOND is at 1353 Brook St., Louisville, Ky., and is Assistant Chief Engineer of the Reed Air Filter Company. 
TOJI BARRY, who is with the Herald and Ex­aminer, wrote the account of the Chicago annual meeting which appeared under the Local Clubs. 
Word comes that JOHN NOPPENBERGER is going strong in Basketball at Spalding Institute, where he is coaching. John's team, up to last month anyhow, had won 15 out of IB games and playing the best teams in the State. A letter from John himself says that he played Saint Ambrose Preps last month at Davenport where he met FOD COTTON, who is coaching there. John says that Fod is extremely proud of his baby daughter. 
-A. letter from the Class Secretary himself came as a great surprise to the Editor. However, it contained word that the Pullman Company was Keeping SCALL.^N on the road quite a bit of the time. But all this travel has failed to dig up Class news. A reform platform in the last para­graph kept the Secretary from going the way of all traveling men. 
1926 
Jerry Hayes, 3117 Washington Blvd., Chicago, 111., Secretary. NORB CAVANAUGH expects to receive his law degree from Stanford in May. 
GEORGE KING who was married last fall is with Park Davis and Company and is located at 190 Griffith Street, Johnstown, Pa. 
A note from JIM KBLLEGHAN states that Jim is still financial reporter for the Wall Street Jour­nal in Chicago. Jim says that JOE TIMLIN who was Secretarj- to Father Joe Burke in '26, is now with JIM SANFORD, '15, with Doremus & Com­pany. 

E. W. ilAHONBY writes from 120 Seward Ave­nue, Detroit, Mich., where he is living with a. num­ber of Notre Dame men. He is in the Advertising Department of Graham-Paige. 
ROLAND BEERY -who is Assistant Advertising Manager of the Benjamin Eletcric Manufacturing Company in Chicago writes that JOB WILLIAMS is the Athletic Director in the Miami High School, Jliami, Florida. This is Joe's second year in that job. 
LEO P. ST. JOHN is now located at lOS W. Michigan Avenue, Tampa, Florida. 
IHLES "MONK" RYAN Is in the Insurance business in Cleveland, Ohio, with CHUCK MOONEY and CHARLES A. 3IOONEY, Sr., at 605 Gardian Building. 
1927 

Edmund De Clercq, 7212 Circle Ave., Forest Park, HI. 
Secretary. 

CHET M'DON.\LD is now acting in the capacity of cashier of the Northwest Branch of the Crane Company, Chicago. DING M'CABE Is hitting the books hard to crash the well known "bar". Such ia the dope from JOE REEDY. 
TOM M'JIAHON writes from Portland that ED JIURPHY is sitting on a high stool in one of his afther's lumber camps at Yacolt, Washington. 
DAN M'CLUSKEY is practicing Law under the firm name of McCluskey and McDermott in Janes­ville, Wisconsin, after a good but unsuccessful run for District Attorney. 
JOHNNY HOWARD drops a note from Long Beach that he had a letter from RED DAVID who is dredging the Mississippi river and shooting hell-divers for a passtime. Johnny says that LES GRADY' is .A.ssociate Editor of Film Fun. John himself is with the New York Telephone Co. 
EDWARD J. FLYNN is working with the West­ern Electric Company in Chicago and attending the Kent College of Law. He is living at 159 N. Au­stin Blvd. 
TED BERKERY sends a hurried note that he is busy as hell working all day and completing his second year at the Fordham Law School in the evening. Ted is manager of the Coin Box Tele­phones of the New York Telephone Company. 
BOB COONEY' is with the Toledo Edison Com­pany in Toledo, Ohio, and can be reached at 403 Cumberland Place, 
JAMES L. VALLELY wrote recently from Kim­berly, Nevada, Box Gl, where he is associated with the Consolidated Coppermines Corporation. 
WALTER W. "BRICK" SMITH seems to have accumulated a little journalistic impulse from the St. Louis Star and sends in the following interest­ing digest: He is rooming with HERB EGGERT who is doing a big coal business in Missouri and Illinois. He says that HUNK -ANDERSON, '21, and MIKE NYIKOS, '27, are keeping Notre Dame alum­ni interested in St. Ix)uis U Athletics. EDDIE PRENDERGAST is among those present almost any place. PETE PETEBONE is a medic at Washing­ton U. JOE BREIG is about to publish a novel and is the guiding spirit of the Vandergrift Penn­sylvania paper. Brick went South with the Browns. i 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
CAMP ROCKNE 
A Summer Camp for Boys 
WINTER, WISCONSIN - ON HUNTER LAKE JUNE 28 - EIGHT WEEKS - AUGUST 23 
and 

Two four weeks periods. 
JUNE 28-JULY 26 ^W JULY 27-AUGUST 23 
EXPERT INSTRUCTION IN: 

Swimming, Canoeing, Baseball, Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Tennis, Track and Horseman­ship, Woodcraft ^7/?^ Nature Work. 
SUMMER SCHOOL ^W TUTORING 
(Affiliated Summer School of Pio Nono High School, Milwaukee. Authorized credits in Primary and High School Subjects.) 
DIRECTOR (and Chaplain): Rev. John J. O'Boyle, M.A., Pio Nono High School, St. Francis, Wis., (Near Milwaukee). 
ATHLETIC DIRECTOR: Thomas J. Lieb, M.A., Asst. Football and Track Coach, of Notre Dame; Graduate of Boy Guidance Course, University of Notre Dame. 
Three resident Priests and two Physicians. 
Address Inquiries to: REV. J. J. O'BOYLE, Pio Nono H. S., St. Francis, Milwaukee, Wis. 
Chicago Office: 

M. A. DWYER, 166S E. 79th St. Phones j l^ewart'^Mr'Hozne) 
A letter from MARTY RYAN of track and Buf­falo Club fame gives us a little light on the Buf­
I Charles E. Doyle & Co. 
1 INVESTMENT SECURITIES 
I CHASE NATIONAL SANK BUILDING I T^TENTY PINS STREET 
' NEW YORK CITY 
I  HARRY J.  CULLEN,  '23  
1I   LOUIS E . WAGNER,  '18  
K^-*l ^  

JOHNNY NYIKOS, former Captain and all-West­ern star on Notre Dame's Basketball team, came back to South Bend February 2G with the Akron Firestones, a commercial team of which Johnny is Captain. A number of other college stars com­prise tha team .which played a South Bend inde­pendent team. Johnny's basket eye was as strong as ever. His friends in Soutli Bend presented him with a loving cup preceding the game. 
LOU CONROY is teaching and coaching at St. Fredericks High School, Pontiac, Jlich. 
1928 
Louis J. Buckley, St. Paul Seminary, St. Paul, Alinn., Secretary. 
The Class Secretary has Just spent the after­noon with our politics "prof** of our freshman year, who of course is none other than MARK NOLiAN '25. Mark, as you know, is now a State Representative here In this great Commonwealth of Minnesota, and is known in the State Capital as the "baby Representative" being the youngest man in the House. Mark said if any of the fellows of the Class happen to be in town to be sure and drop into the Capital and he will prove that all he told us our freshman year is true. DENNY DALY is also employed in the State Capital in the bureau of Auto Licenses. Mark and Denny are proofs that the Minnesota Capital is not 100 per­cent Scandinavian as some of our New York friends would have us believe. No, fellows, it is only 98 percent Scandinavian. 
falo situation. Marty's letter has renewed the 
writer's confidence in the Goodyear Tire & Rub­
ber Co. despite the fact that it's stock has been 
falling ever since last September when the Class 
Secretary left that organization for the Seminary. 
Yes, Slarty has lined up, with Goodyear and is 
located in their Bufalo plant. With Marty in 
Buffalo, with JOE LANGTON still on the Peoria 
and DOC FORGE out in Ames, Iowa, branch, there 
is no doubt that Goodyear will pull out of the rut 
they were left in last September because of their 
heavy (?) loss. 
BERNIE BIRD according to reports is trying 
to clean up Buffalo with increase in sales for 
Proctor & Gamble. Marty also gives us the dope 
on FRANK CONNORS. Frank is making good use 
of his education by inducing the people of Arcade, 
N. Y., that they should all be driving Fords. HOWARD OCHS is located in Jamestown and is with the Art Metal Construction Co. there. PHIL O'CONNOR is with the North Bast Electric Co. in Hornell. N. Y. GDS JENKINS, according to Marty, is in Akron, N. Y., but no dope as to what he is doing. 
The Marriage Announcement Column of this issue is proof that tliere is plenty of news concerning the gang on the Pacific coast but it is ratlier dif­ficult to get it. If tlie Secretary hadn't noticed the announcement of BILL FREITAS' marriage on BOB FOGERTY'S desk the other day when he was visiting him, the biggest percent of the gang would never have known about it. Lesson to be taken from this—"Tell your Class Secretary and he will tell the world." How about a little more cooperation on this column? 
EUGENE O'BRIEN has followed the example of a number of the other '28 men and has located here in the Twin Cities. Gene is with the Min­neapolis General Electric Co. and is living in Min­neapolis. 

Here are a few stray notes from the South. TROY BONNER is in Memphis, Tennessee, with tiie Sears Roebuck Co. according to a reliable rumor. A card from HOWIE PHALIN informs us that he is now in New Orleans. Howie is a hard man to keep track of. Let's hope that he enjoyed the Mardi Gras in New Orleans on Shrove Tuesday. 
JOE KINNEARY is lined up with the Fleish­man Yeast Co. BILL O'NEILL is connected with the Cleveland Transfer Co. According to reports there seems to be something more than business connections which attracts Bill to Cleveland. 
RAY MOCK is coaching and teaching Biology and Algebra in the St. George High School, Evans­ton, Illinois. Ray likes his work very much but he has an "attraction" here in St. Paul which makes it most difficult for him to keep his mind on the classroom. Don't be surprised if you should notice his name in the Announcement Column in a few months. 
A letter from HARRY ENGBL Informs us that Harry has also Joined the ranks of a professor. Harry is a prof, in the Fine .A.rts department of Indiana University, at Bloomington. Harry likes it but he says there are too many "cooeds" to 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
suit him. Harrj* remarks that exams are not 
half as bad when one is on the other side of the 
desk. 
JOHN FAGAN still is quite interested in South Bend and is located in Kalamazoo, Michigan, with tile Kalamazoo Ventilating Co. Jolin finds week­end trips to the Bend much more convenient in this location than they would be if he returned to Providence, H. I. 
While speaking of engineers it would never do to miss CHET RICE. Chet is in Toungstown with the Truscon Steel Corporation. RED D.WID is with the llisssissippi Flood Commission. 
GEORGE LEPPIG has returned to Cleveland 
where he is connected with the Otil Brokerage Co. 
.A.fter the election last November George decided 
that it would not be necessary to open the X«ppig 
Bottling Co., as you know he had planned on 
doing. 
JOHN CARROLL, is in Springfield with the San­gamon Construction Co., ack, don't get too involved in Illinois politics in your enthusiasm over build­ing roads. GEORGE WR-iY, being a blond, de­cided to locate in that Swedish stronghold, Rock­ford, Illinois. George is with the American Radi­ator Co. there. 
BILL JI.4HIX is witli the Tanadium Corpora­tion of America and is living at 2 Dakota St., Crafton, Pa. 
ROGER BRESLIX dropped a note from Lynd­hurst, N. J., about a Xotre Dame item, he had seen in the Eastern papers. He is teaching in rh»^ High School. 
r -m ^ St. Patrick's Day 
For years the biggest and smartest celebration in town. 

i I 
1 MARQUETTE CLUBf I of the City of New York f 
Saturday Evening, March 16 
THE ST. REGIS Fifth Avenue at 55th 
Six dollars a person. 
—"^—M^—••J* 

•"— 
Notre Dame Club 
Of the City of New York 
If you are in town 
on Universal Notre 
Dame Night 
BE OUR GUEST 
Dinner at 7 

22 East Thirty-Eighth Street At Madison 
*
 a •• 

J.
 W. KIRW-iN drops a line from Ames, Iowa, where he is located at present with Montgomery T\'ard & Company. He says, however, that he doesn't stay in one place long enough for the bill collectors to catch up. 


GERALD A. SHEIBLEY writes from New Wash­ington, Ohio, where he is a chemist with the Con­tinental Sugar Company, wanting to know what has become of the '28 pharmacists. 
One answer comes from EUGENE M. PHILLIP, Ji-., S141 S. Green St., Chicago. Gene is in the chemical laboratories of SAVift and Co., and sends "all the luck in the world to the boys of '28— that goes for RED BERRY." 
PHIL O'DONNELL sends a note from the San­ger Hotel, Dallas, Texas. He is now manager of the Dallas oflSce of the Motor Dealers Credit Cor­poration. 
VINCE DUCEY, after a trip around the world, drops a line from Chicago that he is on the verge of starting to work. He said that Public Account­ant HENRY PATRICK DAVIS is expected to arrive in Chicago very shortly being transferred there from Pittsburgh by his Company. 
JOHN WHEELER RICKORD is established in Sioux City as Assistant Employment Maaager of Armour's Sioux City Plant and Editor of the weekly house magazine. 
ED M'CL.-i.RNON is with the Claim Division of the Travelers Insurance Company and he and Mrs. McClarnon are living at 3320 W. Chicago Blvd., Detroit, Mich. 
BOB GRESSER is with the First National Bank 
and Trust Company, East Chicago, Ind. 
JOSEPH J. BAIRLET is with the Michigan State 
Highway Dept., in Escanaba, Slich. 
LEO B. FETTIG is working with Hollabird and 
Root, Architects, 333 X. Michigan Blvd., Chciago. 
FRANK HOl/DAMPP writes from Milwaukee. He is with C, S. 'Whitney, Consulting Engineer. 
MIKE RICKS drops a line to say that he is still working in the XI. S. Dept. of Justice and attend­ing Georgetown Law School. Mike says he meets a Notre Dame man every now and then. 
WILLIAM H. MURPHT who received his degree in February drops a note from 10315 S. Hamilton Avenue, Chicago, to say that he is now located with the General American Tank Car Corporation. 
JAMES MORRISSET notifies the ALUMNUS that his permanent address is no longer in LaGrange, 111., but is now G3G First Avenue, Tucson, Ariz. 
BERNIE ZIPPERER is associated with Charles A, Mooney and Son in the Insurance business in Cleveland. 
JERRY BIGGE writes from the graduate school of Business Administration, Harvard: We have quite a gang here in the various departments at Han-ard—in fact last October we were considering getting together a team to play the Harvard var­sity but didn't think they would give us enough 
competition to be interesting. Saw the Army game 
in New York last fall and couldn't talk for a week 
afterwards. It was a regular '2S Class Reunion 
with L.A.RRT CULLINEY, PETE and JOHN BIER­
NE. CONNIE OCHOA, CHARLEY SHEL.A.NSKY, 
etc., etc., and even etc., all happy and flushed 
with success I believe. Intend to be at Notre 
Dame for Commencement this June if it is human­ly possible. ED M'CORMACK, a loyal scribe if ever there was one, contributes again: JOHN M'MAHON of Professor Cooney's journalism crowd is reported to have started work in New York this week in an exceptionally good newspaper job. The report comes through TURK KELLY also of the Cooney cognoscenti. Turk is himself doing well in the ad­vertising end of the New York Times. PAUL BRUST, Arch. '28, who lives upstairs of yours truly managed to overcome this handicap and grab off an honorable mention last month in the Nation­al Beaux Arts contest. JACK LAVELLE has de­serted Jlanhattan for Long Island and threatens to desert Law for politics. In his spare time he writes letters to the 3000 students, brothers, priests and coaches at Notre Dame, but always forgets to stamp his envelops. Jack Eider's feat the present talk of Gotham. 

Local Alumni Clubs 
NOTRE DAHX: CLUB OT AEBON. OHIO 
Frank Steel, '25, 54S Stratford Ave., President. John DettUng, '21, 437 B. Buchtel Ave., Secretary-
THE NOTBE DAME (XUB OF ABXANSAS Rev. George F. X. Strasaner, '14, Hope, President. Warren Baldwin, '13, 2424 Louisiana St., Little 
Bock, Secretary. 
THE NOTBE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO Dr. Robert E. Burns, '17, 948 Main St., President. Gordon Bennett, '27, 722 Prospect St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CAI^CUET REGION 
H. J. Lower, '13, 566 Washington St., Gary, President. 
W. R. Dooley, '25, N. I. Pub. Service Co., Ham­mond, Secretary 
THE NOTRE D.\3IB CLUB OF CniCAGO John W. Costello, '12, Room 1101, ISO W. Wash­ington, President. Frank T. Fitzsimmons, '20, 7013 Ridge .\ve.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CtNCENNA-n 
E. 0. McHugh, '09, P. O. Box 429, President. 
L. "7. DuBois o. s. "15, Fredk. Schmidt Co.. Fifth and Main Sts.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND Charles A. Mooney Jr., '26, 605-7 Guardian Bldg., President. Fred Joyce, '19, Asst. Mgrr. Allerton Club Sec'y. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO Raymond J. Eichenlaub, "15, Heater Realty Bldg., Columbus, President. 
F. X. Finneran, 615 West Chapel St., Columbus, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CONNECTICUT VALLEY William J. Granfleld, '13, 31 Elm St., Sprinrfleld, Mass., President. James A. Curry, '14, 795 Asylum Ave., Hartford, Conn., Secretary. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON 
Joseph B. Murphy, '11, 309-15 Mutual Home Bldg. President 
J. Farrell Johnston, '24, 49 Shaw Ave., Secretary 
NOTRE DAHE CLUB OF DEN\-ER 
J. P< Logan. 3654 Marlon St., President Henry Schwalba, Argonaut Hotel. Sec-Treaa. 
NOTRE DASfB CLUB OF DETROIT 
Harry Kelly. '17, 2428 First Natl. Bk. Bldg., Pres. Charles O. Molz, '24, The Detroit News, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES John W. Newman, '98-99 3607 Ingersoll Ave.. Pres. Karl F. Walsh, Des Moines Cath. Col., Secretarj 
NOTRE DASIE CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
Dr. J. A. Flynn, El. '12, 1511 R. I. Ave.N. W. Washinton, President. William M. Galvin, '14, "Washington, Secy. 
NOTRE DA»IE CLUB OF FORT WAYNX Hon. John W. Eggeman, 'CO, 1201 First Ntl! Bk. Bldg.. President. Thomas McKiernan, '27, 808 Kiernan Ave., Sec. 
NOTRE DAHE CLUB OF GREEN BAY, 
WISCONSIN Robert E. Lynch, '03, President. John Diener, '09, 735 S, Quinoy St., Secretary. NOTKE D.AME CLUB OF HOUSTON, TEXAS 
George W. Burkitt. Jr., P. O. Box 052. Pres. 
J. Nat. Powers, 514 Branard St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAFOLIB Leroy J. Reach, 'Ot, lot 8. Delaware St-., President. Robert Worth, '26, l>t2 North Delaware St.. Secretary. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET Edward King, 301 Ruby St., President. Clarence Wilhelmi, 909 Oneida St., Secretarj-. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
This page of advertising is made possible by the generosity of the following members and friends of the 
NOTRE DAME CLUB 
of the City of New York 
22 East Thirty-Eighth Street 
William E. Cotter Frank Wallace 
Phil J. Doherty N. E. Franklin 
Ambrose OXonnell William A. Daunt 
Peter P. McEUigott A 
Attorney-at-Law 

New York Alumnus 
320 West Twenty-third Street 
JOHN T. BALFE 
Personal Insurance 
Life Insurance Trusts Corporation Insurance Inheritance Taxes Underwritten 
Graybar Building NEW YORK CITY 
226 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Chicago Speaks 
And all Notre Dame Men Will Rejoice 
Within a few weeks the University of Notre Dame Club of Chicago, will make an announcement that will challenge the loyalty of any sectional Club of any University in 
the land. 

All Notre Dame Men are invited to look forward to the announce­ment and to join in the happiness that will come to the Chicago Club in being able to make known the complete facts. 
The University of Notre Dame Club of Chicago 




