The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

mmnm 
The oummer Cha nses at N.D. 
OCT 6 '^ .; 
.-^'^' 

Angus McDonald Becomes Southern Pacific President «^^£- ni,v>l.-^V 
A Department for the Reading Alumni 
By The Rev. John "V. Cavanaush, C.S.C, "90 . 
c 

Cleben ^0. ®ne 
1932 

Talking from the sky on a beam of light 
T
HE huge U. S. Navy dirigible, Los Angeles, is roaring above the General Electric Research Laboratory at Sche­nectady. On board the airship, an almost invisible beam of 
"^^ 

light is aimed at a 24-inch mirror-target a half-mile below. The mirror, tuming as it follows the dirigible's course, catches the slender beam. Voices transformed into electric impulses in the airship are carried to the mirror by light waves. A photo­electric cell picks up these waves and they are reconverted into sound, which is broadcast to the world by radio. 
A "voice on the air," with a "voice from the air"—the offi­cial opening of radio station WGY's new 50-kw. transmitter is taking place. One millionth of a watt—generated from the blast of a police whistle in the dirigible—is transmitted to the ground on the beam of light and to a Thyrofron tube. The tube magnifies the whistle energy 50,000,000,000,000 times to operate the switches that start the transmitter, five miles away. 
{Insert) Jobti Bellamy Taylor, General Electric research engineer, operating projecting 
apparatus 

Thus was "narrowcasting," a possible means of 
secret communication, recently demonstrated to 
Military and Naval experts by General Electric 
engineers. The future will demonstrate its commercial 
value. Electrical developments such as this are 
largely the accomplishments of college-trained en­
gineers. They ore leading the way to even greater 
progress in the electrical industry and are helping to 
maintain General Electric's leadership in this field. 
Receiving mirror on roof of General Electric Research Laboratory 
95-9SSDH 

GENERAL tt ELECTRIC 
9587^ 
V. II ' October, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
CCMMENT 

Do you ever stop to appreciate the beautiful background that Notre Dame gives in addition to the train­ing in the particular course you may have chosen? I have had occasion to meet many people from many schools. Few of them have ever mentioned other names and places than those directly associated with their works, excepting possibly fraternities, ath­letics, and publications. But think of the endless panorama of color that has existed at Notre Dame, irrespec­tive of classroom—people—places— customs— 
Our Lady, typified in the golden figure on the golden dome—the lakes —reminiscent, to some, of the Evan­geline and the Minnehaha, to others, of the swims by the boathouse—the Grotto—Brother "Leeps"—under the front steps — Washington Hall — the buns from the old bakery and the square pies of the good Sisters— 
The moth - and -flame gate of St. Mary's — goofing parties, ranging from marbles and checkers to mur­der trials, financed by the sale of radiators and pews in the church— Gregori, presen-ed through the years in his many murals—^Albert—Sunday night benediction—the bells for class, for prayers, for meals, for any, and often for no, reason— 
The missions at the opening of school — meeting the team — Father O'Hara and the Basement and Sorin Chapels — post-Mass race for the caf—Ollie Clark's especially — the Niles road — the old Orpheum — the Minims— 
The Glee Club trips—Bill the Bar­ber, and Joe the track "discovery"— the Infirmary, its halls alleged to feature banked turns—the Sorin and Corby subs and the Sorin-Corby ath­letic rivalry, featuring the AU-Amer­ican rooting sections — the outdoor Way of the Cross — the Community cemetery — Brother "Alphy" and his birds— 
Symphony orchestras and opera stars, playing and singing to cordu­roys, getting appreciation that brought them back for more—Wash­ington's Birthday — Charley Butter-worth, Ralph Dumke, Charley Davis, Tex Rickard, in the spotlights—^band 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
The mni^azinc is published monthly durinsr the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 a year: the price of sint^Ie copies is 2a cents. The annual alumni dues of S5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923. at the past office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All correspondence should bo .iddressed to The Notre Dnme Alumnus. Bo.x 81. Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALU.MNI COUNCIL 
MEJIBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUJINI FEDERATION 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, '90 
Honorary President CLARENCE MANION, '22 
President TI.MOTHY P . GAL\IN, '1G ­
First Vice-President JAMES E. SANFORD, '15 --­
Second Vice-President 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 

Director JOHN F . O'CONNELL, '13 
Director ROBERT E . LYNCH, '03 --­
Director HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94 
Director GEORGE HIGGINS, '32 --­
Director FRANK H. HAYES, '14 . . . 
(ex officio) Director 

concerts on the front porch in the Spring— Fr. Cavanaugh, genial and eloquent genius of fourteen vital years of Notre Dame progress—the parade of visiting celebrities during his admin­istration, climaxed by the Diamond Jubilee in '17— "The Colonel," impressive in the classroom, genial at Homecoming and Reunion, imposing in Memorial ser­vices—the Lilacs—^Brother Hugh and his horse—the Pie House on the Niles Road—the Ghost of Washington Hall —the Safety Valve—Bathhouse Mike. 
Hash carts rumbling through zero weather into the old refectory—the "head table"—bonfires, which discov­ered as many odd bits of architecture as Chic Sales—the long line of grid­iron heroes beginning with Hering and E g g e m a n and coming dowTi through the generations of Salmon, Miller, Eichenlaub, Gipp, the Four Horsemen, Carideo, Schwartz, evolv­ing for the world of sport the great Rockne, in whom seemed all the glamor of the game— 
The Order, that other unbroken line of more retiring heroes, in the sanctuary and the classroom — Until '93, the venerable founder himself, the Walshes, Morrissey, Regan, Brother Paul, the Burkes, Farley, O'Malley, 111, Brother Flo, Bums, the present poet-president O'Donnell, and the beloved line of Brother Postmas­ters, Brother Bookstores, Brother Candystores and a hundred other anonymous figures of vast impor­tance— 
These few paragraphs I have writ­ten from my own knowledge and reading, from the tales that every alumnus who visits here tells—^I know of no series of stories more rich in culture, color, character, humor and pathos, plot and setting, than these legends of Notre Dame. They are, like the epics of old, the heart heri­tage of Notre Dame men, gathering, like Father Matthew Walsh's rendi­tion of the Michigan Goal Post epi­sode, interest and strength with the years. 
TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. XI. OCTOBER, 1932 No. 1. 
Summer and Chapter Bring Changes to Campus 
University Teaching Staff Augmented; New Men Bring Talent and Prestige to Their Posts; Few Changes 
In General Chapter Obediences; Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C., '88, Re-elected Provincial 
N
OTR E DAM E should be a FACULTY CHAJIGES ate of Harvard and received his Ph.D. paradox after the heart of Rev. Norbert Hoff, LL.D., '29, pres­from the U. of Toronto this summer. ident of Carroll College (formerly Donald Plunkett, '29, returns to teach 
that recent illustrious alum­histology and embryology. He taught 

Mt. St. Charles College), Helena, 
nus of the University, G. K. Chester­a year at Mt. St. Charles College and 
Mont., who delivered the scholarly 
ton. Few spots have reflected so has been studying in the U. of Mich­
Baccaulaureate in June of '29 and 
many changes in so brief a period igan medical college. Mr. John A. 
the Commencement Address of the 
Sullivan, New York, joins the faculty —in the physical plant and in the '32 summer session, will remain at of the department of sociology. 
personnel. And it is equally true that 
Notre Dame this year to teach Relig­
few spots remain as unchanged in 
ion and philosophy. Rev. Hugo Hoev-FACULTY MEJIBERS LEAVE charm for old friends throughout the er, monk Rev. James Ryan, C.S.C, '20, has 
 Cistercian and missionary, years. will teach religion and philosophy for gone to New Orleans as assistant pas­the year, while plans are being form­tor. Rev. Carrol Deedy has resumed 
The summer of 1932 has been no 
ulated for further promotion of a parish work in the Detroit diocese. 
exception. Changes in plenty have marked the beginning of a new schol­Cistercian monastery in this country, Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C, '18, is astic year— the ninetieth. But the his original purpose in coming to teaching at Holy Cross, Brookland, ' 
fundamental serenity, the underlying America. He is the only member of D. C. Rev. Francis Cavanaugh, confidence, the transcendent spirit­his Order on an American college C.S.C, '23, is teaching at St. Thomas. uality, the sameness of spirit in Sorin, Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C, '24, has 
faculty. He is the author of a book Senior and Sophomore remains. gone to California Polytechnic Insti­
on St. Bernard, and a treatise on 
tute, Pasadena, for advanced study in 
The General Chapter of the Con­Roger Bacon's doctrine of matter and gregation of Holy Cross met at Notre form. 
mathematics. Rev. John F. Lohan Dame in July, bringing delegates has resumed studies at Columbia in from India, France and Canada to Revs. James Fogarty, C.S.C, '22, New York City. Prof. William Leen the Motherhouse of the Order. Very and Charles McAllister, C.S.C, '24, has gone to the Catholic University Rev. James W. Donahue, C. S. C, '07, will teach economics and sociology for graduate study. Mr. Victor Crecco Superior General of the Congrega­and religion respectively. Father of the College of Commerce resigned. 
tion, presided. Comparatively few Fogarty comes with a Ph.D. from changes were announced. Catholic U. and Father McAllister Rev. Patrick Dolan, C-S.C, '15, be­from teaching at St. Thomas. Rev. comes the Prefect of Discipline. 
Rev. James A, Burns, C. S. C, '88, Joseph Tiernan will teach religion Since his ordination Father Dolan former president of the University, and education. Father Tiernan came has been one of the outstanding mem­was elected Provincial of the Congre­to America from Australia several bers of the Mission Band of the Con­gation for the United States, continu­years ago. gregation. He brings to the import­ing thus to fill the office to which he ant office he assumes an experience •succeeded upon the appointment of Prof. Fred I. Myers joins the Eng­and a personality that should con­the late Bishop Finnigan to the See lish department as a veteran of six tribute greatly to the success of his of Helena in 1927. summer schools on the campus. He administration. 
has taught for the past ten years at 
Rev. Thomas Ir\'ing, C. S. C, '04, 
the U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis. 
was re-elected First Assistant Gen­RECTORS CHANGED 
Previously he was in service in 
eral. Father Irving was for many Rev. James Stack, C.S.C, '13, is in 
France, and taught at the U. of Ill­
years a member of the University Corby this year, moving from Morris­
inois prior to his enlistment. He is 
faculty and also ser\'ed as vice-presi­sey. Rev. William H. Molony, C.S.C, 
a graduate of Indiana U., A.B. and 
dent. Rev. George Sauvage, LL.D., 
A.M., and took graduate work at '07 moves to Walsh from the now '18, was re-elected Procurator Gen­Harvard, demolished Freshman Hall. Rev. F. 
eral, representing the Congregation M.- Gassensmith, C.S.C, '17, moves in Rome. 
The Commerce faculty is aug­
from Badin to Howard, being suc­A council was formed to assist the mented by Prof. Alden Davis, Ph.B., 
ceeded in Badin by Rev. Joseph Provincial in the United States, con­Bucknell; A.M., Harvard, and Ph.D., 
Muckenthaler, C.S.C, '23. Rev. Leo sisting of Rev. Matthew Walsh, Columbia. The faculty of philosophy C.S.C., '03, Rev. John F. O'Hara, gains Prof. Robert Pollock, formerly 
Heiser, C.S.C, '02, abandons the Day-
C.S.C., '11, Brother Engelbert, C.S.C, of the faculty of Bowdoin. Prof. Pol­Dogs for the more serene confines of and Brother Ephrem, C.S.C. lock is a native of Scotland, a gradu­Morrissey. At present writing the 
October, 1932

THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
Off-Campus problems were to be in the hands of Father Dolan direct, but the enrollment having exceeded indi­cations when appointments were made, a rector for the group may be appointed later. Freshman Hall (nee Sophomore) is in charge of Eev. Charles McAllister, C.S.C, '24, while the former rector. Father Henry Bol­ger, pursues advanced study at Cali­fornia Tech. 
Rectors unchanged are: Sorin, Eev. John Farley, C.S.C, '02; Lyons, Eev. John Ryan, C.S.C, '06; Dillon, Eev. Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C, 'IG; Alum­ni, Rev. Raymond Clancy, C.S.C, '29; St. Edward's, Rev. J. Alan Heiser, C.S.C, '13; Brow-nson, Brother Aidan, C.S.C., '27; Carroll, Brother Maur­ilius, C.S.C 
PHYSICAL CHANGES 
A sight as welcome to returning students as to campus perennials was the vacancy that existed where Fresh­man Hall once ran its course along tlie Eddy Street road. This building was erected some ten years ago as a temporary measure to preser\-e the essential residence features that have distinguished Notre Dame. Its valu­able purpose is unchallenged. In it, some hundred and fifty boys found a campus haven that its absence would have prohibited. But it was tempor­ary. The continued inrush of students and the constant overflow since its construction made it difficult to dis­pose of it. But with Alumni and Dil­lon completed, the Administration closed its eyes to pain, like the owner of a horse with a broken leg, and turned it over to the wreckers. Ten 
generations of freshmen who scarce dared lean against its fragile walls would have been surprised to note the sturdy condition of its skeleton as un­covered by the post-mortem. 
EEV. JOHN F . O'HARA, C.S.C, '11 
Reliyion Comes to Dillon Hall. 
Another addition to the campus beautiful this summer was the plac­ing of a copper colored clipper ship model on the central eminence of the Edward N. Hurley College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce. The pres­ence of this substantial reminder of one of the early factors in the crea­tion of America's world power is a decided architectural and aesthetic asset to the Plaza program, and ought to carry its quota of foreign­trade-consciousness to the College's recruits from the lone prairies. 
A change that ought to be in process when you read this, which will also promote the Plaza program and facilitate safety and traffic for the new arrangement, is the building of a new paved highway East of the Stadium and Cartier field, cuning from the present intersection of Eddy St. and Angella Ave. and re-entering Eddy St. at the Bulla Road. (You can visit the campus some time and get that straight.) Eddy St., which now runs between those points by passing between the Gymnasium and Cartier field, in front of the Stadium and along the proposed East front of the Plaza, will be closed to motor txaffic, thus making the Eastern campus safe, for the local democracy, without, as at present, making a traf­fic policeman a feature of the stretch and tying up bona fide traffic. The St. Joseph county road commissioners, through the efforts of G. A.. Fara­baugh, '04, University attorney, have granted the petition. The University will bear the expense of the new pavement and donate the right of way. 
In presenting the petition for the highway. Attorney Farabaugh out­lined the building plans of the Uni­versity, which include, in addition to the recent buildings, immediate pro­motion of the Plaza program, the early construction of the Eockne Memorial and a Chemistry building, and the road itself, which will to­gether add something more than a million dollars to the community building program. Inasmuch as the University has been almost the only important factor in local construction with the exception of a new postoffice, for several years, the reviewers apparently were favorably impressed. 

October, 1932 THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS 
DEMOCRATS PICK WALKER, '09 
Frank C. Walker, LL.B., '09, who has served as counsel for the Comer-ford Amusement Company, 1600 Broadway, with a chain of motion picture houses in Pennsylvania, up­state and in Providence, R. I., was named treasurer of the Democratic National Committee Aug. 29 to suc­ceed James W. Gerard, former Am­bassador to Germany. 
Mr. Walker came to New York in 1925 as counsel for the amusement corporation which was then owned by his uncle, Michael E. Comerford, of Scranton, Pa., where the firm had its beginnings. Before that he had prac­ticed law with his brother, T. J. Walker, in Butte, Mont. 
Since the meeting of the Democrat­ic National Committee in Chicago, Mr. Walker has been serving as assistant treasurer, the committee ha\'ing voted authority to James A. Farley, its chairman, to appoint the treasurer later. In announcing the appointment August 29, Jlr. Farley said: 
"I think the Democratic National Committee is extremely fortunate in securing Mr. Walker's service as its new treasurer. A close personal friend of Governor Roosevelt for many years, Mr. Walker has acted as treasurer for the very informal pre­convention activities of Governor Roosevelt's friends, and has been at all times one of those constantly con­sulted as regards the strategy of that campaign. 
"Although born in Pljonouth, Pa., 

Mr. Walker's family moved to Butte, Mont., while he was still a boy. After his graduation from Notre Dame uni­versity in 1909, he joined his brother. State Senator T. J. Walker, in the practice of law in Butte, under the firm name of AValker and Walker. In that way he became early interested in politics, and is a close friend of both Senator Burton K. Wheeler and Senator T. J. Walsh from that state. 
Alumnus Solves Panhandling 
James G. Henley, LL.B., '93, law­yer, editor, labor leader and promi­nent Catholic layman of Southern Michigan, has established a free kitchen for the poor in his home town, Jackson, which has attracted nation-wide attention for the prac­tical success it has achieved. Any alumnus will do well to get the de­tails of the remarkable plan Jlr. Hen­ley worked out in Jackson. He is a nephew of the late Cardinal Gibbons. 
Summer School Successful 

In spite of the depression, the 14th annual summer session of the Univer­sity was conducted with the custom­ary brilliant faculty, only a hundred or so under the customary enrollment, and closed with the awarding of 120 degrees on Aug. 2. Rev. Norbert Hoff, LL.D., president of Carroll Col­lege, Helena, Mont., gave the Com­mencement address. Honors were con­ferred by Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University. 
THE WOMEN'S CLUB 

This much neglected but important branch of Notre Dame graduates, the women, mostly nuns, who have re­ceived degrees, primarily at summer school, enjoyed a belated election dur­ing the summer. The new oificers are: Sr. Agnes Alma, O.S.D., president, Newburgh, N. Y.; Sr. M. Josephine, O.S.U., Brott-n County O., and Sr. Maria, S.C.C., Wilmette, 111., the re­placing vice-presidents (two hold­overs) and Miss Rose Steffaniak, Coldwater, Mich., secretary. 
A business meeting was held July 29 and a social meeting followed in Washington Hall. The Sisters have been able to accomplish a great many things for Notre Dame through the various Orders and schools which they represent, and the Alumni Office and magazine regret the slight treat­ment which their activities must nec­essarily receive through these chan­nels. The social program consisted of a group of musical numbers and readings by the abundant talent in these fields which flourishes among the members. Sr. M. Fidelis, O.S.U., Toledo, 0., retiring president of the club, came to Notre Dame for the meetings, Miss Sarah O'Neill, retir­ing secretary, gave a brief but a com­prehensive review of the Club's his­tory. 
Lay Retreat Success 

Suffering little loss in attendance, despite conditions, the 14th Lay Re­treat was held at the University, August 4-7. Rev. Thomas DuiTy, C.S.C, '20, was Retreat Master. Rev. Thomas Kearney, C.S.C, director of lay retreats, was in general charge. Alumni played a prominent part. Judge John Eggeman, '00, was chair­man of the breakfast which closed the Retreat. Henry Hasley, '28, Grand Knight of the Ft. Wajme Council K. of C ; Rev. Thomas Duffy, C.S.C, Rev. Joseph Boyle, C.S.C, '08; and Fr. Kearney, C.S.C, spoke. Rev. John Cavanaugh, C S. C, '90, delivered the principal address. 
John Law Coaches Sing Sing 

Johnny Law, captain of the '29 football team, is coaching the now famous prison football team at Sing Sing penitentiary. In addition, John­ny is running for the N. Y. Assembly and acting as renting agent for Radio City. He doesn't have to travel with his present eleven as much as with the National Champions he captained. 
Mrs. E. N. Hurley Killed 

Alumni will learn with regret of the tragic death on Sept. 6, of Mr.-5. 
Edward N. Hurley, who was killed 
COACH SUJIMER FOOTBALL FOR MOVIES 
when a train struck the automobile in Left to right Jesse Harper, A. A. Stagg, Bill Alexander, "Pop" Warner, which she and a daughter and son-in­"Hunk Anderson, aid in directing Ail-American film. 
law were riding. 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS October, 19S2 
Angus McDonald Becomes S. P. President 
Promotion Is Recognition of Leadership Alumnus and Former Athlete Has Achieved in Railroad Organization; New Offices Established in San Francisco and Houston 
Angus McDonald, '00, LL.D., 31, was advanced to the general presi­dency of the Southern Pacific trans­portation systems on Aug. 1, 1932. 
Mr. McDonald was a student at Notre Dame from 1896 to 1900, a bril­liant quarterback on the football team and a four year monogram man in baseball, caiJtaining the team his last two years. 
The new distinction is not acci­dental. Mr. McDonald began in the accounting division of the Southern Pacific office in Houston soon after Iea^^ng Notre Dame. He was ad­vanced to the auditorshij) of the com­pany and transferred to San Fran­cisco. Becoming deputy controller he moved to New York, and in 1925 was made \'ice-chairman of the executive committee. The presidency of the Texas and Louisiana branches of the company was awarded him in 1926. 
The new position takes him back to old territory, with the establishment of his offices in San Francisco and Houston. He also retains the full control of the Texas and Louisiana companies. 
Hale Holden, chairman of the exec­utive committee, made the following statement in connection with Mr. Mc­Donald's promotion: 
"The purpose of these changes is to simplify and adjust the organization more closely to the present day condi­tions. The office of chairman, newly created, places the control and direc­tion of the affairs of the company in a single authority, with the support and assistance of two principal offi­cers, the vice chairman and the presi­dent. 
"Southern Pacific is one of the largest transportation systems in the United States, and with combined rail 
and Atlantic steamship service main­tains operations from coast to coast. It is deeply concerned in the rapid development in recent years of new forms of competition by water, high­way and air, and has been active in adapting motor bus and truck opera­tions as supplemental to rail service and in efforts to revise its own meth­ods of operation and to secure public authority to enable it to compete on 
^B3^^^^H 
W \ • ^ ^ iflP ^ W 
!^3 
r ^ »iu'j%^^^ 
1 \ . . , ^I^^^^^'L^^H^SIJ ^Z- —-^'~-^. -'^nKBHH 
^9 Nl 'X§:y^^
mSm
S| 
^^^^Wj^fctS*!: '^^^^^SSj^^ 
4|W ^yj^^m^i 
O^K 
PRESIDENT MCDONALD IN CALIFORNIA 
Relaxing this summer with Frank Carideo, 'SI, and Marchi/ Schwartz, '32. 
fair terms with steamship lines oper­ating through the Panama Canal, and along the Pacific Coast. 
"The president will have jurisdic­tion over all rail and steamship lines. Heretofore the lines West of Ogden and El Paso have been operated sep­arately from those in Texas and Louisiana and from the Steamship lines. The operations of these three units will now be merged under a single operating officer, and it is be­lieved that economy and greater effi­
ciency will be secured. In addition to 
direct operations of its own, Southern 
Pacific is. interested, as stockliolder in 
a number of affiliated companies of 
considerable size. These include 
Southern Pacific Railroad Co., of 
Mexico, St. Louis Southwestern Rail­
way, Northwestern Pacific Railroad 
Co,. San Diego and Arizona Railway 
Co., Pacific Electric Railway Co., 
Pacific Fruit Express, Pacific Grey­
hound, and a number of others of 
lesser moment. It is owner of a large 
amount of timber lands and other 
lands containing proven and probable 
oil and gas reserves, coal, iron ore 
and other minerals. The geograph­
ical scope of these direct and asso­
ciated operations extends from coast 
to coast and requires distribution of 
authority for efficient and prompt ad­
ministration. It is believed that the 
organization just announced will im­
prove the methods of handling these 
various interests." 
In 1931 Mr. McDonald delivered the Commencement address to the gradu­ates receiving at that time the Doc­torate of Laws which, like the Knighthood in the Order of Malta conferred several years ago. he merited so well. At that time he ex­pressed, among many fine and sound sentiments, the following tribute to Notre Dame: 
"The spot where my youthful years were passed as in a dream can never be forgotten. The memory of those days is a part of ma In looking back over that period of cloud and sunshine, the little sorrows, dis­appointments, and troubles, now seem far sweeter than many of the joys I have since experienced; and I always regard Notre Dame with that feeling of love one has for home, and for those who made it home, a feeling which can neither be expressed nor forgotten. . ." 
Even as Mr. McDonald then said, "I rejoice in the success of her many faithful and loving sons scattered throughout this great country," Notre Dame now rejoices in the success of Mr. McDonald, eminent among them for faithful and loyal service to her. 

October, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
series of forty lectures at Notre Dame last semester. But illness pre­vented. It is hoped he will be on the campus for the work this year. De­spite what anyone says, he is literary lightning and superb scholarship. He is a great biographer. Lippincott an­nounces a biography of Napoleon by him just published. 
Mr. Charles Phillips, Professor of English Literature at Notre Dame, is credited with having written the best modem book on Poland. He has just completed and will soon publish a bi­ography of Paderewski. 
They are talking — whoever they are—in the papers about canonizing the priest-hero of Molokai, Father Damien, the apostle of the lepers. A good book to read just now would be "The Lepers of Molokai," a thril!­ingly beautiful and dramatic threnody from the e.xquisite pen of Charles Warren Stoddard, professor here dur­ing the middle and late eighties. Few men ever wrote as this man wrote. Brother Joseph Dutton, with whose praise the world has been ringing since his recent death and who spent half a century with Father Damien in a vocation of penance and service, went from Notre Dame, where he had just made a retreat under the direc­tion of Father D. E. Hudson, C.S.C, to "mournful Molokai" to take up his dismal life work. "Dismal"—and yet he used to sign most of his letters 
not, "yours sincerely," "yours truly," "yours faithfully," nor anything of the kind, but "yours joyously." There are something like a hundred of Dutton's letters at Notre Dame that will have to be published sometime soon. 
I see that "Keystones of Thought" by Austin O'Malley (Doctor of Medi­cine, Philosophy and Law) may be had for $1. (Address Devin-Adair Co.) Doctor O'Malley was in the habit of gibing at this remarkable volume, expressing astonishment that it proved such a good seller while more learned and, as he thought, more important books of his remained neglected and unrequited. Explana­tion: there are a thousand men in this country who can write a learned book for one who can do such a thing .^s this "collection of aphorisms, keen, witty-and humorous." 
//Absolutely the best thing ever done by the really distinguished Irish \vriter, Seumas MasManus, (frequent lecturer at Notre Dame and LL.D. 1917,) is "Yourself and the Neigh­bors.'' When you think sometimes of "dusting off the old ones"—this book was published in 1914—read this one if you have it and buy it if you haven't. 
Marion Cra^\•ford, famous novelist, said after a week on our campus that Austin O'Malley was the best edu­cr.ted man ho had met in America. 
BOOK AND INGLENOOK: 
Things Old And New 
We offer tkis little thinn tenta­tively to keep old felloivs who still read in touch with librari/ influences 
of the  ca^npiis.  Tell  its whether  you  
like  it  and  make  suggestions  for  
improvement.  
Of Special Interest to Us:  

The venerable and saintly Father Daniel Hudson, who relinquished the editorship of The Ave Maria three years ago,—he is succeeded by the de­lightful and much loved Father Eu­gene Burke, C. S. C, '06,— has been most gravely ill for a long time. The last year almost, he has been confined to his bed in the Community Hous3, and from week to week grows visibly nearer to heaven. The Ave Maria is his life work and beautiful monu­ment. Older alumni especially treas­ure him as one of the holiest and most inspiring traditions of the campus. I suggest that old students keep in touch with the spiritual influences of the campus by reading The Ave Maria. I mean not merely subscrib­ing for it, but actually reading as much of it as possible each week and sharing the reading aloud with the members of the family. A word to the wise is sufficient; a word to Father Eugene on a postcard will do the work. ($3). 
Ida M. Tarbell has WTitten another biography, "Owen D. Young." Mr Young, Commencement orator and Doctor of Laws of 1932, deeply and favorably impressed all who met or heard him. The perfect subject plus the perfect biographer equals the pei-­fect book. Q. E. D. (Macmillan, 53). 
"Waterless Mountain" by Laura Adams Armer won a $2,000 prize of­fered by the publisher, Longmans, when it appeared last year. The John Newberry Gold Medal was awarded to the author this summer by the American Library Association. Mrs. Armer, the author, is an artist by profession and famous for the great collection of sand paintings she has made for the Rockefeller Museum of Sante Fe. The book is dedicated "To Lorenzo Hubbell whose faith inspired this book." Hubbell is an Old Student and lives at Oraibi, Arizona,-^ his contemporaries will be glad to have his address. Hubbell who is guide, philosopher, friend and almost benefi­cent deity to the Navaho Indians and 
on whom Mrs. Armer depended for reliable inside information about the Indian mind and mythology, writes: "Mrs. Armer's experiences of the years spent among the Navahos have enabled her to portray their true psy­chology. The beautiful, mutual un­derstanding between author and Nav­aho has given 'Waterless Mountain' the authentic Indian mythology, the same now as before the coming of the White Man. The deserts, the canyons, the mountains of Northern Arizona, are the setting for this story, so rare and true to Indian life." But neither Lorenzo Hubbell nor anyone else can adequately convey the charm and beauty of this book. Recently Mrs. Armer made a pilgrimage all the way from Arizona to Notre Dame just to see Hubbell's old school. He was here '97-'00. ($2.50). 
Thomas Augustine Daly—Tom Daly, LL.D., 1917—has now a string of nine books to his credit: "Can­zoni," 1906: "Carmina," 1909: "Mad­rigali," 1912; "Little Polly's Pomes," 1913; "Songs of Wedlock," 1916: "Mc­.4.roni Ballads," 1919: "The Wissa­hickon," (prose) 1922; "Herself, and the Houseful" (prose), 1924. To this most creditable catalogue Tom has now added "McAroni Medleys," and like all the rest it swims in smiles and sapience. Tom is one of our best institutions. Years ago this writer suggested titles for two other books by him: "Spaghetti Sonnetts" and "Banditties," but the suggestion was scorned. Of course, "while the light holds out to bum" etc. His home ad­dress is 4937 Rubicam Road. German­town, Pa. His office: 917 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. ($1.75). 
Mrs. Esther W. Neill, author of several e.xcellent bits of fiction, has just published "The Tragic City," a thrilling story of Washington in the eighties. Mrs. Neill is the wife of Dr. Charles P. Neill, who as student and professor was one of the out­standing figures on the campus in the early nineties. ($1.50). 
Hilaire Belloc, bulky, brilliant and bookish, was fifty years old when I first looked him up twelve years ago. He then had a book to his credit for every year of his life, and I am con­fident (without research) that he has kept up his pace these recent years. Following Chesterton (as he often does) he was to have delivered a 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 19S2 
EDITORIAL^ 
OPPORTUNITY 

Notre Dame is undoubtedly on the threshold of a future beyond the dreams of her most ardent friends. 
Those of us fortunate enough to spend our time on the campus are not immune from the man-el of progress that has ignored the rough economic seas outside. Notre Dame, like the ant, has enjoyed the stored up energy, good will and resources of prosperity, while more fallible and gullible grasshoppers have danced with the bulls and the bears in impermanent green pastures. 
Ninety years ago, with a few hundred dollars, a few followers and faith, Father Sorin took the slim thread of the mission he found here and began weaving an inter­mingled pattern of religion and education. The beauti­ful tapestry that now covers 1200 acres of Indiana land­scape is rich with the strength of the loom, the skill of the weavers, and the inherent quality of the materials with which they wove. 
The superstructure is rising rapidly upon a foundation that was laid well. Uprooting the trees of old traditions, draining the stagnant pools of prejudice, reinforcing against the slides of earth,—^these were the tasks of the founders, tasks that lasted for many years, but which have succeeded through the forces of persistence, con­fidence, unending labor and sacrifice. 
Even now, it is well to be a Notre Dame man. Look at this blossoming of the desert and think of what the next ninety years can do. 
Particularly are the possibilities unlimited if you par­ticipate. 
A NOTRE DAME MAN DIES 
During the summer the hierarchy of America was dealt a severe blow in the sudden death of the Most Rev. George J. Finnigan, C.S.C, D.D., Bishop of Helena, Mon­tana. The Diocese over which he presided expressed a sorrow at his passing that paid him eloquent tribute in its scope and sincerity. 
The Church lost in Bishop Finnigan a scholar, educated in Rome as well as in Canada and the United States, em­ploying his learning to the great advancement of Catho­licity. 
Veterans of the World War lost a devoted friend in the former Chaplain who came back from France a captain. 
In these and many other phases of his life and work. Bishop Finnigan had carved deep niches that preserve him in the memories of those w»ho knew him. 
The Alumni Association mourns him, in addition to his other admirable qualities, as a Notre Dame man. 
As a priest, he had holiness. As a man he was human. 
As superior of Holy Cross Seminary, he exerted a trem­endous influence for good on the boys who followed their vocation under him. As a member of the Missionary Band of the Congregation, he left a trail of friends in the wide­spread mission field, far better for his ministering. As Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross in this country, he brought to that responsible position the'com­bination of deep religious fervor, true culture, sympathy and understanding, and ability as an executive. As Chap­lain overseas, he carried God where God did not seem otherwise to be. 
Always, as his beautiful request for burial at Notre Dame revealed, this campus was his heart's home. Tlie separate phases of his life, varied as they were, con­verge into simple summary, though the letters of the sen­tence are gold. He was a Notre Dame man. 
"THE SHORT AND SIMPLE ANNALS" 
Response of the membership to the frantic $0? sent out by the Association in the twilight of the fiscal year ending June 1, 1932, was, like the- charge of the Light Brigade, heroic but inadequate. A substantial enough dent ap­peared in the deficit, however, to rekindle the zeal of the martyrs in the soul of the Editor. Hence, Vol. XI, No. 1. How high the numbers in the volume will go remains a matter of editorial conscience and credit at the printei's. And may the Editor add here. The Ave Maria which can extend credit only by curtailing its own great mission, has been most generous. 
The ALUMNUS, in the opinion of the Directors, is essential to the life of the Association. Its regularity and its power to link the alumnus to fellow alumni and to Notre Dame supply the most modest medium that could be employed to similar ends. 
It appears coverless this year to preserve its periodic nature. The Editor regrets this dropping of a feature that added to the quality and appearance of the maga­zine in addition to increasing its wearing power. Loss of the cover sacrifices only four pages from the inside, and still permits sufiicient room to mirror, as well as be­fore, most of the progress of Notre Dame and Notre Dame men. Some sacrifice must necessarily appear in the valuable field of the feature story. But the highlights of an alumni magazine are the news of the campus, the Classes and Clubs. The policy of the magazine this year will be to reflect these activities as fully as possible. 
To those whose dues are paid, we ask indulgence on the grounds of bearing, like Atlas, the alumni world on their shoulders. And to those whose dues are not paid, we bring once more .this reminder, trusting that prosperity will soon make it easier for posterity. In the meantime, please be more patient even than has been your generous custom with these "short and simple annals of the poor." 
ATHLETICS; 

By JOSEPH PETRITZ, •32. Dinclor of Uniirrsilu PiMicitij. 
Coach Heartley W. (Hunk) Ander­

son, '22, may be a different man by 
the time the next issue of the ALUM­
NUS reaches you, but at this particu­
lar moment he is apparently without 
a worry in the world. 
Much as he would probably like to 

be loyal to the tenets of the coaching 
profession by e.Kuding heart-rending 
bear stories, he can't seem to help 
smiling when he sizes up the situation 
as a whole at Notre Dame this year. 
He has lost Marchy Schwartz, Capt. 

Tommy Yarr, Nordy Hoffman, Al 
Culver, Dick Mahony, Carl Cronin, 
Bernie Leahy, and George Kozac from 
last year's team. This is an excellent 
case for an outburst of hysterical 
sobbing. 
But "Hunk" has forgotten all about last season and even about last June when these players were lost. The fact of the matter is that they have not been entirely lost — not all of them. Schwartz, Yarr and Hoffmann are all back as assistant coaches (with John "Ike" Voedisch) to find replacements for themselves. Kozac is back as a freshman coach. 
His youthful and illustrious staff of assistants is one of the greatest causes of joy Anderson can think of. Another is the fact that he has 23 lettermen back from last year, an­other from 1930, a good-sized handful . of likely reserves, and a sophomore group which held the varsity to two touchdowns in a regulation 60-minute game as practice got under way. 
Finally, he is pleased about the schedule. He didn't like the idea last year of having to key his team for the Northwestern game on Oct. 10. Northwestern didn't like it very well either, and both teams cracked late in the season. But this year, the team doesn't open until Oct. 8, and then it plays warm-up games with Haskell and Drake before plunging into the thick of its intersectional and section­al games against the best competition to be found. 
At left halfback Nick Lucats is making a strong bid for varsity hon­ors, after serving as a spectator last season when he received a broken leg. He won a monogram in 1930. Little Mike Koken, Schwartz's understudy, is also after the spot vacated by Schwartz. Al McGuff, a sophomore, and Frank LaBorne, monogram win­ner last year, are both triple threat men who are good enough for any man's team. 
-4.11 of last year's quarterbacks have returned: Charley Jaskivhich, Laurie Vejar, and Emmett Murphy. Any 
1932 Football Schedule 
October 8— Haskell Institute at Notre Dome. 
October 15— Drake University at Notre Dame. 
October 22— Cameffic Tech. at Notre Dame. 
October 29— Univ. of Pjttsburgii at Pittsburirli. 
November 5— University of Kansas at Lawrence. 
November 12— Nortliwestern Univ. at Notre Dame. 
November 19— Na>T (Cleveland) 
November 26—• Army at New York City. 
December 10— University of Southern California at Los Angeles. 

newcomer will have a hard time crashing this big three. The same situation prevails at fullback where George Melinkovich, Steve Banas, and Jimmy Leonard are returning. All were lettermen. 
At right halfback, Anderson has lost only Cronin. Joe Sheeketski, Ray Brancheau, and Curtis (Duke) Mill­heam, lettermen, are all back. The only problem in the backfield is find­ing out where to play all this material. 
Ben Alexander, a product of Larry Mullin's So. Pasadena high school, is the stand-out at center to replace Tommy Yarr, but Tom (Kitty) Gor­man and Jack Robinson are on his heels. 
Norm Greeney has been shifted from left to right guard to replace Nordy Hoffman, leaving Jim Harris at the left side of the center. Bill Pierce, Harry Wunsch, Joe Pivamik, and Jack Flynn are all good guard prospects. 
Ail-American Joe Kurth at right tackle and all-Western Ed Krause at left tackle make these positions small problems for Anderson. He has Tom Roach and Mike Leding at the same posts with the shock troops. 
Capt. Paul Host was shifted in spring practice from left to right end, leaving his two-year rival, Ed Kosky, at the left terminal. If anything happens to these veterans, he still has Frank Canale and Hughie Devore to step in with the regulars. 
"We'll have a strong team," says "Hunk" with a smile, "but I'm not saying how many games we'll win. It all depends on whether the team is cracked up by injuries like it was last year, and a lot depends on how tough the other fellows are. 
The "other fellows" include some of Notre Dame's best known traditional rivals. Carnegie Tech plays at Notre Dame stadium Oct. 22 with a veteran team. Only three men are missiing from last season. The Tartans have more reserve strength than ever be­fore and they admit the3r're going to win back some of those games they lost last fall by the margin of one touchdown, a field goal, and one point. Notre Dame was the only team to beat them by more than one touch­down last season. 
Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Oct. 29 should again prove a great test. Coach Jock Sutherland says he can't think of any particular game he ^vill lose this year. He has lined up a national championship schedule, with Army, Ohio State, Notre Dame, Penn, Neb­raska, Carnegie Tech and Stanford the stand-outs. 
A consistently rugged Kansas team will be host to Notre Dame at Law-, rence Nov. 5, before a sell-out crowd. This is not considered a breather by Anderson, no matter what anyone else thinks. 
Nov. 12 will see Northwestern at Notre Dame stadium for a renewal of the classic of the Middle-West. The Wildcats have a schedule without a let-down, so they'll be in the mood for high class competition in this game— and the usual high class battle should result. 
Mayor Ray Miller and his town of Cleveland will be host to Notre Dame and Navy, Nov. 19 at the new muni­cipal stadium. Navy has improved by leaps and bounds under the tutelage of Edgar (Rip) Miller, '25, and should be a real problem to all of its opponents this season. 
Revenge will be the motive at New York the next week when the Irish meet the Army, with one thought par­amount in their minds — no Army team has ever defeated Notre Dame twice in a row. 
The same idea and the same truth will inspire Notre Dame t\vo weeks later, Dec. 10, at the Los Angeles coliseum when the Irish hit the Southern California Trojans, as pow­erful as ever apparently, in an attempt to win back that 16 to 14 game of last season. 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
BOSTON Dear Jim: Hope this bit of news will be on time for the October issue of the ALUMNUS. The Notre Dame Club of Boston will begin this season's activities with 
a stag dinner at the Boston Yacht club on Saturday night, October first. A large number have signified their 
intention of being present and a good time is looked forward to. Jim Dooley, '22. 
CAPITOL DISTRICT Dear Jim: You have undoubtedly wondered why I have not replied to your letter of some time ago requesting news of the Notre Dame club of the Capitol District. This has been partially due to the. fact that there has not been any news. However, I miRht advise that last night we held a meeting of the ofiicers and board of governors and have formulated several good ideas. In the first place we are car­rying on this year the Notre Dame Cup in memory of Knute Rockne which is presented to the winning Parochial team in this district. The teams interested and participating this year are about six or seven which is a considerable increase over last year's three. The cup is therefore at­tracting some attention and we are definitely hoping to make it an estab­lished custom of the club. We have also fonnulated another idea which is as yet a brain child, the germ of the idea belonging to McNa­mee. The idea is to arrange a sched­ule of homes to listen to broadcasted Notre Dame games this fall. As soon as we are able to determine the games we will arrange a schedule of the homes to visit and listen. It is ex­pected that probably more than fifty per cent of the active members will be present at each meeting and con­sequently make it worth while. 
F. L. Duquette. 
CINCINNATI 
A card from Hogan Morrissey stated that he would be through at the Fort Scott Camp for boys about the middle of September. But no further word from Hogan. Joe Mor­rissey, townsman, wrote early in the smnrner that Commodore Ed McHugh, who steers the Cincinnati club pretty much, had disappeared from the haunts along the Ohio. Harry Crum­ley had been seen at a ball game, looking happy. 
CLEVELAND 
The Navy game, with all its attend­ant activities, has brought the old "thundergust" back to Cleveland. And a lot of extra bolts and crashes for good measure. The following are a few pai-agraphs from the sundry epistles that Clayt Leroux, the O. 0. Mclntyre of Euclid Ave. and envir­ons, has deposited in the local vaults almost daily during an otherwise dis­mal summer. 
Dear Jim: Once again "God's Gift to the Law" • puts aside his law books in favor of his secretarial duties. As you probably already know Pat­rick Canny of Hoboken, Chicago, Cleveland, etc., has joined the ranks of marital bliss. Kathleen Flanigan of Chicago and St. Mary's is the bride. Bill Dailey, Chicago, best man. Also, Paul "Doc" Brady, of Paines\ille, Ohio, has announced that Miss Elizabeth Jletzger, of Cleveland, has agreed to take him for better or worse sometime in the near future. You will recall that "Doc" has a very nice law practice in Paines\iUe. Have you heard that Gene Millif is to publish a treatise on "Ushering, As It Is and .4s It Ain't" or "Often an Usher but Never a Bride." I can recommend Prof. Milliff's comprehen­sive work as a masterpiece of an authority who knows his stuff. You probably will be pleased to hear that Pierce J. O'Connor passed the Ohio Bar with a rumored "third highest"—and is now on the verge of connecting with some of the more promising three-men-firms here in Cleveland. His secretaries catalogue the ofi'ers received. Doctor John Viktoryn passed the Medical Board of Ohio with flying colors, being fourth highest and is now interning at St. Ann's hospital at Cleveland. Dr. Ed Lakner is also at St. Ann's. Mr. and Mrs. George Thomas just returned from a trip to Wisconsin where they attended the funerals of Mrs. Thomas' father and uncle. George asked that Father O'Hara will please remember them. Our last year's track captain, Alex Wilson, participated in Mayor Miller's Day at Cleveland Stadium on August 21st and incidently led his field. Johnny Beljon, '20, composer of "My Prom Sweetheart," which was the theme song for "Spirit of Notre Dame," now has his own band of eleven pieces and is making quite a 
sensation in the local college and frat­ernity crowds. He played at the first Notre Dame summer party and is also booked to play at the final party which is scheduled at the Marine room of the Westlake hotel, Sept. 9th. This dance will close an especially active and successful summer of joint club activities on behalf of student and Alumni organizations. 
In connection with the summer party, I must mention the fine "Stag" party which Pete Champion and Jack Sonnhalter and their committees staged at the beautiful Lake Forest Country club at Hudson Ohio, last August 18th. I want to take this opportunity to offer my apologies for the misleading directions the Automo­bile club furnished us as to how to get there. For the benefit of those who ended up ten miles from the scene of action all I can say is "scuse pleez, mister." In spite of such a handicap the party was a success as Father Griffin will testify (having won the golf trophy by a' comfortable margin). The Youngsters beat the Oldsters in a hectic indoor game al­though suffering two casualties — Ed Blatt was "bean balled" and Johnny Colangelo is "finger-pointng" as a re­sult of a hasty catch. We expect both victims to be convalescing short­ly without the expense of flowers, but all that doesn't get the grass stains out of my pants. Chuck Eohr, the demon winning pitcher, big-heartedly surrendered his prize, a rattler, to the loser, but ever-game, Billy Ryan. Ryan in turn made a graceful and unselfish gesture of turning it ovet to his colleague and supporter John­ny Colangelo, who umpired after the injury. 
Chuck Mooney's brother, William, received severe injuries in an auto­mobile accident a couple of weeks ago. Chuck tells me that the patient is doing nicely thought they all had a bad scare. Father O'Hara's aid again solicited. Sylvester Haas was also in an automobile collision but came out \\-ith slight injuries and a good cause of action. 
Saw Harlan Herman the other day "Erummeling" around town. He in­forms me that he had changed his address to 3214 Berkshire Ed., and is taking a very active part on the Notre Dame-Navy program. Joe Sealise has also popped up after a period of silence and, I understand, is helping to put Goodyear on the map in a big way, being located at the new super station headquarters at East 

October, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
13th and Chester, Cleveland. Jim Callaghan is instilling new blood at the May Co., here at Cleveland as is Otie Winchester at the local Kresge's main store. Paul Frantz is married as you probably know and is con­nected with the Apex Electric. 
Your Walter also wishes to add that George G. Vlk is now coaching at Catholic U. and it is rumored he has formed a twosome. Our congrat­ulations and best wishes. 
Congratulations are also in order for Mr. and Mrs. Jack Flynn, of Cleveland, who have announced the arrival of an heir within the last few weeks. 
Also announced was the engage­ment of Miss Aileen B. Dwyer, daugh­ter of Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Dwyer, of Cleveland, to none other than our own William Byrne. 
Joe Toolen is commuting between Cleveland and Anderson, Ind., these days and I understand that Gerry McCune is convalescing somewhere in Vermont. 
This letter has developed into -x "Who's Who and Where" but after all that's the prime purpose of a secre­tary's missle—and I modestly add it is all just "off the press." 
This epistle wouldn't be complete, Jim, without a word of appreciation and thanks for the fine co-operation the officers of the N. D. Club of Cleveland are receiving from every member. I say this in all sincerity and know the officers feel the same way. Out of the numerous requests for assistance and the assignment of tasks to indi\'iduals we have received only one refusal, and that one was explainable. With such help the year can't be anything but a success. 
Purely in the nature of a supple­ment to my recent edition of "Events of, by and for the Students and Alumni of Notre Dame." I am writ­ing to assure you of the success of our Final Summer Party. The party was in the nature of a dance spon­sored by the Students and Alumni and staged in the Marine Room of the Westlake hotel at Rocky River. The music was furnished by John Beljon and his orchestra supported by sev­eral singers and entertainers of note, including Jerry Reidy, "The Ladies' Preferred." A delightful specialty number was staged by a guest whose name I missed but who came with Santy Lecho\\-itz| Both clubs were represented as well as the local Georgetown group. 
Mr. and Mrs. Don Miller graced our table with their presence — and you must know Mrs. Don to appre­ciate how unsatisfactory and limited that word "graced" can be. My con­gratulations to Don. 
The evening was a success in every way, complying with our policy of be­ing staged strictly at cost. The treas­ury is 34 cents richer after the dance. 
Briefly summarized the past sum­mer calendar looks something as fol­lows : 
First Summer party—June 29— given by Cleve Gary and his Campus Club, at Fred Joyce's Lake Shore Hotel. 
Wooster Pilgrimage—July 14—by Alumni and Students at Wooster Country club (courtesy of Fr. "Mike" Moriarty). 
Second Summer Party—July 18— by Campus Club at the Hotel AUerton Roof. 
Supper Party—Aug. 15—by Cam­

pus Club at Willowick Country Club. 
Annual N. D. Stag Party—by 

Alumni and Students at the Westlake 
Hotel—Rocky River. 
And all these activities in addition to the weekly Monday luncheons at Fischer Rohr's "Subway." Perhaps you wonder when I have time to prac­tice Law? I do myself. 
You will be glad to hear that Hen­ry Newmark, '78, was with us again last Monday. The warm weather has kept him indoors this summer but he is still as young as ever. We are all very proud of him. Also proud are we of David J. Champion, father of Pete Champion and former lay trus­tee of the University, for the great honor conferred on him by Our Holy Father the Pope, (a Knight of St. Gregory). 
Henry Hoffman has been promoted to factory manager of sales at the Arco Paint Co. 
Harry Sylvester, '30, of Brooklyn, 

N. Y., who is with the "New York Post" as sports writer, was with us at lunch last Monday. He was cov­ering the Yankee-Indian series in Cleveland and is spending the fall covering the "Big 10" camps. 
Prayers are requested for the speedy recovery of Bill Bambrick and Cliff Carroll who have joined the ranks of automobile "victims." 
The program for the rest of the year is tentatively outlined: Navy game week-end. Plenty of plans in the mill for everybody; Christmas party, Dec. 26th, place undetermined; theatre parties at The Playhouse on East 86th street with the club par­ticipating in the gate receipts; Rockne Anniversarj' Mass, March 31st, 11:30 
a. m. at St. John's Cathedral; Lay­man's retreat during Lent, St. Stan­islaus Retreat house, Parma; Univer­sal Notre Dame night, April 17th, Fischer-Rohr's; Easter party, Easter Monday night, place undetermined; election of officers. May 1st, Fischer­Rohr's ; Commencement delegation, June 1, 2, 3,—Notre Dame. 
The club dues have been reduced to $2.00 for everybody. 
The weekly luncheons at "The Sub­way" are every Monday between 12 and 2 o'clock for students, friends and alumni. 
.\s you probably know. Tommy Byrne, our president, is doing big things in the sales department of the Ohio Bell Telephone Co., while Vice-President Chuck Rohr has succeeded his father as manager of the Fischer-Rohr restaurant, one of the old land­marks of Cleveland. 
Chuck Mooney is in the insurance business since his graduation from Reserve Law school. We are expect­ing him to carry on the family name in Washington sometime in the near future. In the meantime he is doing much to promote the interests of the local N. D. group. 
-Also, I think the O'Neill family are to be commended for the fine way they have stood by the N. D. bo3rs. Their outfit, the Superior Transfer, has become a regular Notre Dame stronghold. 
Rumor has it that Dennie O'Neill has celebrated a recent addition. So also. Norm McLeod. This latter is probably of interest to the local Bend­ers, in that Jlrs. McLeod was former­ly Miss Florence Geyer of South Bend. Norm is doing very nicely and has a fine home in Shaker Heights. 
Gaylord Haas is also doing big things in a big way over at the Ohio Bell, which incidentally is another N. 
D. stronghold. Cy Matthews is holding things down at the Marine hospital here in Cleveland—and is being rushed heav­ily by the nurses, ah, me! And sh-h-h, we wonder why Gene Milliff visits Cy 
Matthews so often. Clayt Leeroux. 
DETROIT My dear Jim: The one bright ray shining through the clouds of depression is the bouy­ant optimism of my fellow downtrod­den Democrats. Everything else suf­fers from an epideemlc of "drastic curtailment." This disease has slowed down the stream of activity to the point where even alumni gossip is scarce and of not especially choice quality. 
Activities of the Notre Dame club of Detroit as a body have suffered a similar slowing down. One of our members, Leo F. Mclnemey, has been largely responsible for the two little get-togethers we have had this year to date. It was hoped that we could derive a little profit from these to turn into our scholarship ftmd, but both were disappointing in this re­spect. However, we did succeed in getting a pretty fair sized crowd out and everybody seemed to have a whale of a good time without spend­ing much money. So the parties were worth while after all. This fall the club hopes to sponsor a couple of trains down to games and thereby keep up the old acquaintances and renew the old friendships in every way possible under these adverse con­ditions. 
And so to a few lines of personali­ties. . . . Al Slaggert took a long va­cation trip this summer. . . Mexico, the Olympic Games in Los Angeles, and back by way of Seattle, Vancouv­er and the Canadian Rockies. He tells me he was in New York and Wash­ington recently also. Quite the legal globe-trotter. Paul Pfohl and his wife stopped in to see Al last week and also Duke Clancy. The Duke is liv­ing in Hillsdale, Michigan now, so Slaggert tells me. 
Talking to Dr. Harvey Brown, '23, out at his office across the street from the University of Detroit campus. He's scheduled to teach several hours in the University's new school of Den­tistry, also to help Gus Dorais with the coaching. Gus Dorais has been out of town all summer conducting a series of coaching schools all the way from Maine to Seattle. Bud Boer­inger is back at the University of Detroit as line coach. 
Bill McCullough got himself mar­ried this summer at the Notre Dame Log Chapel all in the accepted society page style. 
Dr. Wm. Mulcrone, '04 (or '05) of Dearborn was elected to the high rank of president of the Detroit chap­ter of Knights of Columbus, represent­ing all of the councils in this district Ed Sawldns, '88 was elected to the office of secretary of the chapter. 
Bay Kelly is out in Portland at the Legion convention. He has been men­tioned prominently in these parts as a possible candidate for the office of National Commander. Charlie JIolz and I have had several games of golf during the course of the summer. He has been trying to get several local high school graduates to devote their talents to the glory of Old Notre Dame, but he has found himself com­peting with important bidders from other schools. I am glad to report, however, that Charley's efforts have proved of some value and that in a year or two Detroit will have more representation at N. D. 
Everything else seems to be about the same. Everybody sticking pretty close to base and going along working at his own job when he is so fortun­ate as to have one to work at. I haven't done enough getting around to be a good reporter myself. Fred Link and I have had several golf games together. He reports Herm Centlivre to be getting back into championship tennis form. 
That's about all I think of for now, Jim. Paul Dooley. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
Dear Jim: 
I have your card requesting some news from the District of Columbia for the October issue of the Alutnniis. Regret there is not much to say of interest regarding the Notre Dame members. 
You probably already ha%'e heard that Dutch Bergman recently sub­mitted to the removal of an obstrep­erous appendix prior to the opening of the football season at C. U., and from the reports I get through the officials of the Naval hospital, he came through so well he was trying to tackle the nurses and kick football before the ether had worn off, and they had to use a straight jacket to keep him in bed one week. He is back on the job and it looks like another big season for his school. 
Also had a call recently from Fath­er McElroy of the '17 class, who is, as you probably know, in the Francis­can Monastery here. He has another year to go, but looks no older than he did fifteen years ago. 
Fred Wile has been galavanting around the countrj' broadcasting poli­tics and as usual keeping np his long list of contacts—^the best known Alumnus in the Capitol, 
I have had several comments from the local Alumni over the failure of the West to cut football prices as the East has done and fear it presages a slackening up of attendance at some of the big games. However, I suppose the depression hasn't hit South Bend yet and doubtless Art Haley can give 4,672 excellent reasons (ably ad­vanced and seconded by Jess Harper) as to why the price should in reality go up this year. In any event we are all looking forward to a good season. 
Father McGinn often drops in on me and is still the busiest Prelate in this Diocese. Also very frequently get a chance to chat with Father Mc­Bride who has a crowd of yearlings to initiate into the mysteries of Dis­trict of Columbia seminary life this Fall. 
I expect to go to Fort Wayne this week-end to stay three or four days and it is possible that I may get up to the University Monday or Tuesday of next week for a few hours. If so will be sure to look you up. 
Jim Hayes. 
DES MOINES Dear Jim: 
The man in the Confederate Army uniform delivered your postcard to me this morning. The request you make that I furnish you some infor­mation about the Des Moines Club challenges my immediate attention in view of the fact that I have always wished to let go my literary aspira­tions, and this seems to be an excel­lent opportunity to gather together some big words and some good ideas providing my adept little stenogra­pher can stand the surprise. 
Actually there hasn't been enough excitement amongst the Notre Dame men of this village to go on record. However, as I have been an excep­tionally close follower of the ALUM­NUS I fail to recall of ever having seen in print the names of a few of the boys who have graduated from Notre Dame and are now members of our local club. I am sure that they will receive a thrill in seeing their name in print if only through the medium of being recognized. 
EARL WALSH, '22, is beginning his ninth year as Athletic Director at Des Moines Catholic College. Earl has been extremely successful hereto­fore and there is no particular reason why he should not continue to develop winning teams. 
JIM SHAW, graduated about 1922, is an attorney for the Carleton D. Beh Company as well as being some­what of an equestrian. One of his horses was awarded a colored ribbon at the Society Horse Show conducted at the State Pair held here in Des Moines. 
CARLETON D. BEH, '17, besides being President of the largest bond brokerage house in the community also has associated with him PHIL BEH and "VICTOR BECKER, as well as JIM SHAW. 
LARRY WINGERTER, '28, until recently Publicity Manager of the Des Moines City Railway has been transferred to Indianapolis, and I be­lieve holds the same position with reference to the Rapid Transit Com­pany of that city. 
HAROLD P. KLEIN, '26, is man­ager of the Municipal Bond Depart­ment of the lowa-Des Moines Nation­al Bank. Good old Dutch and wife just returned from California where they attended the National Conven­tion of the Junior Chamber of Com­merce. Dutch is a member of the Board of Directors of the United States Junior Chamber of Commerce. He says that no matter what he does the Junior Chamber is always behind him. 

HAROLD and FEED NEU are making their mark as bond salesmen in the community. 
MARC WONDERLIN, '29, is Aet­

nizing with Aetna. 
EMMET BARRON, '27, is probably 

the big reason why U S F & G is still 
on the map. 
JOHN STARK is, and has been. Deputy United States Referee in Bankruptcy for several years. 
HENRY SHEURMAN, about 1904, 

is one of the most enthusiastic Notre 
Dame men in the State although he 
has never visited the Campus since 
leaving the University. No doubt 
some of his associates in those good 
old days will be glad to know that lie 
conducts one of the largest Woolen 
Mills in the State. 
\aVI.-V.N FIGGE is connected with 

the State Banking Department. 
JIM BARRETT doesn't believe in 

working and so we will have to rele­
gate him to the rear rank of the army 
of unemployed. 
As long as your correspondent can buy Palm Olive soap and maintain that schoolgirl complexion he will be able to say that he is a struggling young lawyer waiting for the inevit­able break. However, if the Palm Olive should discontinue their effer­vescent attempts to keep that school­girl complexion I shall change to Lifebuoy and in the event that this transfer proves a failure will do all in my power to be appointed Alumni Secretary in some Institution of learning. 
I think my literary instincts were dampened last night so I had better continue practicing Law. If you can obtain any valuable information from the above proclaimed news you are to be highly complimented. 
Charley Lynch. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 

Charles B. McDermott, active sec­reetary of the East-Penn club of the Alumni Association, has been exceed­ingly busy since early spring and as a result two fine young men from Eastern Pennsylvania have matricu­lated at the University of Notre Dame this fall. They are Danny McFadden and Jimmy Hauze, of Al­lentown. Charley, Danny and I re­cently spent several days in New York city. We visited Hugh A. O'Donnell,- John B. Kennedy and others. 
Christy Flanagan is in Bethlehem today. He is the principal speaker at the testimonial banquet which will be given tonight to the Caseys, cham­pions of the City Baseball League. Charley will leave soon for Florida. The "automobile" mentioned in the newspaper clipping enclosed is mine. 
(Ed. Note: Leo was toastmaster at the banquet.) 
The East-Penn club plans to hold a 

party in honor of Tom Conley and 
Marty Brill on Saturday evening, 
Oct. 8. Tom and Marty will bring 
their La Salle College eleven to Beth­
lehem to play Moravian College that 
day. Hugh L. Campbell, of Hazleton 
and Ernest L. Wilhehn, of Palmerton, 
are also members of the committee 
which is arranging for this party. 
John F. McMahon, a member of the 

East-Penn club and like me a member 
of the Class of 1928, is now a statf 
writer for the Associated Press in 
Pennsylvania. 
Leo R. Mclntyre. 
FORT WAYNE 

As to news in and around Fort Wayne pertaining to the Alumni it is very meager. Of course the members of the club all attended the funeral of Gerald DuWan which was held here at St. Patrick's church on Satur­day, June 4th. My memory fails me as to just what priest from Notre Dame was present and delivered the sermon at the funeral mass. Jerry, as you know, was quite prominent on the campus and has a host of friends here in Fort Wayne, due primarily to his career as an athlete. A number of his friends from school were here for the funeral and I recall talking to Hunk Anderson. The active pall bearers as I recall were Bernard Reams, Robert De Wald, Maurice De-Wald, Harry Murphy, Jack Williams and myself. 
Henry Hasley was taken into the law firm that he has been with since graduation. The firm is now known as Morris, Newkirk & Hasley with offices in the Peoples Trust building. As you know, this was the firm founded by the late William P. Breen, donor of the Breen medal. 
George W. Flick, A.B., '28 has been here in our office since Octtober, 1931. 
Frank Corbett, a Breen medalist, A.B., '30, passed the Indiana State Bar examination, was admitted to the Bar and is now associated with attorney Guy Colerick in the Lincoln Bank "Tower. 
Bernard Broeker, A.B., '30 spent the summer here in Fort Wayne and has now returned to Harvard Law School. 
As I stated above, we plan on hav­ing a meeting shortly now that the hot weather is over. 
The student's club did not promote any dances this summer as has been the custom in past years, due of course to the depression. There are over 10,000 heads of families in this county and things are really tough. However, having in mind "that as Maine goes, so goes the football game, I believe the Democrats will clean up on November 8th and as a result things are going to improve. 
Having in mind your dead line is next Tuesday, I want to get this little bit of news to you immediately and promise that I shall have something worthwhile for the next issue. 
E. F. Eggeman. 

INDIANAPOLIS Dear Jim: 
Here is some dope on the doings of the Indianapolis Club and some of its members. 
We, held our annual golf tourna­ment on June twenty-eighth at the -Avalon Country club. We had quite a turn out, there being more than fifty fellows there for the tournament itself, and dinner afterwards. After the eighteen holes were finished we all adjourned to the dinner table and had a very enjoyable meal and meet­ing, intermixed with a few short talks and entertainment. Ted Bade-maker won low gross and became the club champion for the next year; other winners were Bob Kirby, Jack Welch and John Carton. Joe Sexton and Harry Scott ran a close race for the sand shovel, with the latter win­ning the coveted prize due to his abil­ity to find more traps on the course than any one else. The committee in charge was composed of Bill Mooney, Fred Mahaifey, Jim Corbett and Bob Kirby. 
Maurice McNulty is showing no partiality, having now t\vo heirs, one for Notre Dame and one for St. Mary's. 
Bill Krieg and Art Sullivan passed the recent State Bar Exams., and are now practicing law in this city. 
Bill O'Connor is busy looking after the food problem of Indianapolis, be­ing associated with M. O'Connor Company, wholesale grocers. "Bill" Habing spent the last few months as auditor and assistant manager of the Dunes State Park. I saw Frank (Pep) McCarthy the other day, and he is now associated with The In­diana Catholic. 
We are going to have monthly din­ners during the winter, at which time I will be able to collect more news. 
See you next month. 
John Rocap. 
JOLIET 

Clarence Wilhelmi writes that the Joliet alumni enjoyed the summer outing at Horrigan's home on the Kankakee river July 16 and 17. Sports, cards and refreshments kept everybody active an dthe fifty men present uncovered some rare talent, Clarence adds. Bill Bossingham seems to have been another Johnny Weiss­muller in the water, with Ed King imitating Pete Desjardins. The old timers took the baseball game by the modest score of 30 to 27, Ed King reports. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Bill Redmond, member of the club, former varsity golf star, won the Country club championship in Joliet and the county title as well. 
KANE COUNTY 
Bill Chawgo who handles the pen for the young organization centering about Aurora was in the Office this summer. Plans for a picnic were abandoned when members failed to. sign on the dotted line as to attend­ance. Bill said it looked as though there would have been quite a picnic of late-comers, at that. Clarence Buddy, one of the forefathers of the club, is a candidate for states at­torney. Oliver Field and Walter Kel­ley passed the Illinois bar. Jim Tobin is going to medical school. Phil Hemming is also returning to Rush medical school for his senior year. Joe Gardewines was enjoying a vaca­tion in California. Vernon Knox had left the native heath for a job in Chicago. 
ICANSAS Dear Jim: 
I haven't sent you a report of the Kansas Chapter for the simple reason that we haven't hnd any meetings. There is a little talk among the boys about a summer party, but I don't know that it will work out. In the event that we do have a meeting we intend to include those boys whose cards you sent to Gebert. We might do a little good in that way—at least I could fill out the cards and return them to you. 
I see Gebert and Sigler of '30 quite often, and Norb Skelley is still ac­tive. Jim Bray is playing baseball this season with a western league club and is going quite well. I don't know if you know any of these fel­lows, but they are the only ones that I see. 
I'll try to keep you better posted on this club of ours for I really feel that we are commencing to get a little more enthusiasm aroused. 
Hope I get to see you this fall, at least long enough to convince you that this unit actually does exist. Be sure of my sincere personal regards. 
Dan Welchons. 
LOUISIANA-inSSISSIPPI Dear Jim: Thanks for your card relative to the Club's vacation news. My observation of the boys I came in contact with is that they all had a very enjoyable summer. My brother, cousin Ed and Tom Daigle sailed my boat to several sail­ing victories. Marchy Schwartz spent three weeks with us, after finishing up his part in the new motion picture "All America." We are looking forward to him to make a go of his new job at Notre Dame. 
Daigle and Beach returned to school last week in fine shape and should give a good account of them­selves on the gridiron in due course. 
Jack Harrington, the son of a good Steamship friend of mine, has joined our ranks and will start his Fresh­man year this season. 
All in all, the ole school is holding its own very well down here, ask Vernon Eickard who has spent most of the summer here with Earl Bur­nett's orchestra. Know that John McMullen will be pleased to learn that Vernon and his songs have made quite a hit here. 
With all good wishes for a big year, kindest regards and best wishes, beg to remain. 
Cyprian Sporl, Jr. 
LOS ANGELES Dear Jim: I received your card yesterday, and I hope this arrives in time to make the deadline. The town is just beginning to get back to normal again, after the Olym­pic Games, Football Coaches' Conven­tion, and Elections. On August second the Notre Dame club gave a banquet in honor of Jesse Harper, and the Notre Dame coach­ing staff. Besides Harper, Hunk -An­derson, Marchy Schwartz, and Tom­my Yarr, Slip Madigan, Jimmie Phe­lan, Frank Carideo, Larry Mullins, Ike Voedisch, Clipper Smith, Al How­ard, Charley Bachman and Adam Walsh were guests of the club. Keene Fitzpatrick came down from San Francisco for the banquet (and the Olympics) and Christy Walsh left a Trojan banquet to sit in with us. As you may have suspected after reading the guest list the banquet soon became a grand bull session. Perhaps I shouldn't say bull session as the speeches were both eloquent and sincere. Henry Dockweiler, and Clipper Smith filled the air with superlatives; Harper told us that he was merely the Athletic Director, and that Art Haley and Hunk were the ones to bother for football tickets; Hunk gave us a line on the men comprising next year's squad; Slarchy and Tommy were glad to be with us, and even more glad to have an opportunity to coach with Hunk next fall; Larry Mullins had to leave early to attend Tom Lieb's coaching school and learn a little basket ball from Dr. Mean-well; Jimmy Phelan told us that when the going was tough, Notre Dame men who were coaching, found consolation in picking' up the paper and finding that Notre Dame had won again, and voiced his opinion that Notre Dame under Hunk would continue to lead the football parade; Charley Bachman and Al Howard 
told of N. D. football in the South-All the speakers praised Hunk and looked forward to a great Notre Dame year; Christy Walsh was glad to be with us again and every one had a fine time. 
Marchy Schwartz, Tommy Yarr, Frank Carideo and -A.1 Howard were busy this summer working, with many other former great football players in Universal's football picture "All American." Manny Vezie helped out in the technical directing. He is a proud father now you know. 
Johnny O'Brien was home for a few days, but had to rush back to Annapolis. 
It was talking to Chile Walsh. He is growing so chubby I hardly recog­nized him. 
Vince McNally was down for the Olympics. He looks fine and will be back up at St. Mary's with Slip again *his fall. According to advance re­ports they will have a better team than last year's, which you will re­member was good enough to beat U. 
S. C. Emmett McCabe has been running around, with a big grin, a black cigar, and a ready hand shake. He is cam­paign manager for John M. Costello, prominent local attorney and Loyola graduate, who won the Democratic nomination in the 15th district. 
Tom Lieb had a ' ver-j successful coaching school, and many of the local 
coaches  are  clamoring  for  another  
school next  summer.  
Incidentally  To m  an d  Manny  

should have a great year at Loyola this season. They appear on the U. 
S. C. schedule this year for the first time.­
Matt Cullinan came down from San Francisco to help Mr. Sheehan put the Fox Film Corp., back on its feet, and will probably be a permanent citizen here. 
Chet Ashman has deserted us for San Francisco where his is working in the Advertising Dept. for Sears-Roebuck. 
Well that's about all the news for the present, so I'll close for now. Larry A. Moore. 
MILWAUKEE Dear Jim— Thanks for the card, and the thought of coming up to see us. As for news here's my best attempt: As a means of expressing farewell and well-wishings to the Milwaukee students the local Notre Dame Club held a dinner at the Medford Hotel on Thursday, September 8th. About thirty attended to enjoy the festiv­ities, and to do their bit in rendei-ing advice to the parting students. The inexhaustible :BiU Redden presented the speakers calling on Ed Yockey for the principal address. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Although the summer was rather a quiet season for the club's activities a picnic was held at the Redden country home which was indeed a very happy meeting. Among other things a good­ly amount of baseball ivory was brought to light which might never have been discovered had it not been for the outing. 
John Madden officiated as com­mander-in-chief and made very good work of it. The club wishes to ex­press its appreciation for the time and effort he expended to make the affair a very successful event. 
Ang. Galdabini. 
NEW YORK 

Dear Jim: In compliance with your recent re­quest I am glad to give you what little information there is in regard to the activities of the Club during the past summer. 
On June 16th, the New York club welcomed into its ranks those Notre Dame graduates of the class of 1932, who live in the Metropolitan area. The reception was in the form of a dinner held at the Hotel McAlpin. We had as our guests, Christy Walsh, the famous Syndicate writer; Henry Va.a Loon, author, and Frank Carideo, the new coach of Missouri university. 
Mr. Van Loon gave a very inter­esting talk on what he thought of the present day conditions. He expressed the opinion that there were not enough "radicals" in the country to­day, and by the word "radicals" he meant those that went to the root of everything. In his opinion the "de­pression" has had a good effect on people in general in that everyone has \vorked harder for a living. 
Carideo was late in arriving at our meeting due to a reception that he was given by the local Missouri Alumni Association. 
On September 8th, at the New Yor'j Athletic club the club held its annual swim and dinner. This event was a farewell party to those under-gradu­ates who returned to Notre Dame for the completion of their courses. 
The Purdue Knickerbocker club is giving a lot of publicity to the com­ing football game between Purdue university and New York university which is to be played October 29th. They are sending an application for tickets to each member of the Notre Dame club. 
For a little 1926 Class news—Miles 

J. (Monk) Ryan spent several months in New York, being associated with the William P. Nelson taint Com­pany. He has returned to Cleveland but expects to be back with us in tlie Fall. 
Doc. Gelson. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 

None other than the great "Pop" Warner, sage of the Santa Clara valley, paid signal tribute to "Clip­uer" Smith, University of Santa Clara coach, when the Stanford fox proclaimed Smith as one of the five greatest coaches in the country. 
Mr. Warner has been very kind in his remarks about "Clipper" Smith, who is regarded as foremost on the Coast when it comes to putting on .in offense. This year "Clipper" will in­troduce the most recent development in American football, the MULTIPLE SPIN offense. The basis of this attack is that three backs spin simultan­eously about a focal point, giving the ultimate in deception, speed arid pow­er. Smith, working with rather lim­ited material, yearly sets the big shots here back on their heels. 
This does not necessarily mean vic­tories because Smith's supposed first team of '31 was wiped off the campus by ineligibilities, scholastic delin­quents and other causes. This year should see Smith reach his highest peak of development. Around the bay area, and on the Pacific Coast, he is held in high esteem because of his gentlemanly deportment, his coaching skill and his personality. 
Assisting Smith at Santa Clara i? "Buck" Shaw, famed Notre Dame star of a decade ago. "Buck" coaches the line, and his forward wall draws great praise each season. 
The most prominent national figure allied with the Northern California Notre Dame club is "Slip" Madigan, St. Mary's coach. Madigan's achieve­ments need no recital. This is his twelfth year at St. Mary's. He started A\ith a small squad, recruited from a student body of less than one hundred. Today, he has a squad of over seventy and St. Mary's has a marvelous plant set in the Moraga Hills. None can deny the miracles that this man Madigan has performed He is undoubtedly the most aggres­sive, determined, fighting individual that has ever operated in a football way on the Coast. His teams, which have a tremendous following, are al­ways colorful. Last year Madigan upset the Trojans, who later won the National championship. St. Mary's was defeated by University of Calif­ornia at Los Angeles, and also by the Olympic club, a non-collegiate, am­ateur group in San Francisco. 
There is tremendous drama about Madigan's rise, and he re.lects great tribute to Notre Dame by his work out here. Madigan is assisted by Vince McNally, quarterback on the '25, '26 Rockne teams. McNally also coaches basketball. To Vince is given a great share of the credit for the smooth qualities of the Gael backfield last Fall. 
Things gathered at random: Elmer Wynne, fullback, '27 team, visited here for a few days. He was received by Vince McNally, Bemie Abbrott, Bert Dunne, Clipper Smith and Buck Shaw. . . . Mark Kreutzer, secretary Notre Dame club. Northern Califor­nia was married during the early summer. . . This club plans a lunch­eon for Angus McDonald, president. Southern Pacific railroad, ^vith offices in San Francisco. McDonald, famed, mighty Notre Dame alumnus, will be asked to give a short talk. 'The date has not yet been set for this affair. . . Keerie Kitzpatrick, Clipper Smith and other Notre Dame men gathered in Los Angeles for the Olympics inter­spersing visits to that great pageant from cool, beautiful Manhattan Beach 
(Los Angeles papers, please copy!) ... . Matt CuUinan, 'SO, now em­ployed by Fox Film, was "touched" for $75, they say, by a couple of sly footpads who found Matt entertain­ing a client in one of the city's prom­inent cafes. Matt left San Francisco immediately for Los Angeles, his headquarters, where life is safer and more serene, and where even footpads show a little consideration for a man, his job and a client. . . The weather is excellent here. "It's Always Cool in San Francisco!" . . . Los Angeles was so hot last week. A strange city! Strange people! . . However, we must not enter into personalities again. We could talk about politics, though. Bet­ter not. It is such a dangerous voca­tion. 
SOUTHWESTERN TEXAS 

Dear Jim: 
Was glad to receive your card and to know after all the depression, re­construction and floods of politics that our contact is to resume again. You requested a stoi"y from and about the South West club—well, well and well 'em it's going to be a story. 
Our club seems to be continuing its old college habits of activity for nine months and with a variety of vaca­tions for three months, we are novv again struggling for the right place and time to get together. We have big things to celebrate, and big per­sons to honor and I might add we are going to do them in a big way. As you know we have the honorable lieutenant-governor, Mr. Joe Menger, residing in our city and also the much thought of football player, Mr. John­ny Niemiec, who has been appointed to the position of head coach at Alamo Heights school. Johnny is very pleased with his new position and has already spent four weeks working out his new football prospects. Johnny has all the other coaches worried be­cause he is bringing the Rockne sys­tem into effect, a system which has not been instituted in this city before. 
(Continued on next page) 

^THE ALUMNI 
Bishop George J. Finnigan, C. S. C./ 10^ Dies In Montana 
Summer witnessed the loss of few, but unusually promising and young alumni through death. 
Outstanding in the nation was the death of the MOST REV. GEORGE JOSEPH FINNIGAN, C.S.C, Litt. B. '10, Bishop of Helena, Mont., in Helena on August 7. Bishop Finni­gan had been stricken with a heart attack the preceding Wednesday, but 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
(Continued) 

As for the progress of our local members—Mr. Leonard Hess '25 is the proud father of a big boy. Ed Conroy '30, has rejoined our forces and now operates and controls every movement of the San Antonio Police Force through the radio. John A. Bitter, A.B., LL.B, '30, '32 who has been spending the summer in Peoria, will arrive in our beautiful city next week and will immediately open an office. 
As for visitors and guests we have been honored with the presence of Joe Jachym, who is a pitcher in the Texas League. Joe looks fine and is going great. Mr. Robert Hennes was the guest of Harold Tynan for a couple of days before going to California. I also had the iileasure of seeing Father O'Hara for about t^vo seconds this summer, and I would like to con­gratulate him on his new distinction. 
Well sir, that just about concludes the news and my story. W^ill write again next month to state how well our plans materialize. Best Regards. 
Kirwin J. Williams. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 

So much of Notre Dame is almost an integral part of the St. Joseph Valley that it is sometimes hard to separate club activities definitely from the rather general conduct of the af­fairs of the University. Which is a very nice out for an inactive summer. 
But don't think nothing was done. The year closed on a well-formed plan for the more comfortable meeting months whereby the club would bene­fit from a scholarly presentation of an important topic, to be followed by discussion. The first meeting, ad­dressed by Prof. William Farrell of the University faculty on Fascism was not believed to be in serious danger. 
Bishop Finnigan was bom in Potsdam, N. Y., Feb. 22, 1SS5. In 1903 he entered Notre Dame, grad­uating seven years later with the degree of bachelor of letters. He then went to Rome to study and in two years won a doctorate in phi­losophy. Three years later, in 1915, 
proved the soundness and the inter­est. These meetings will be resumed in October. 
The club acted as ushers for the funeral of the late Bishop Finnigan and aided in many of the details con­nected with that sad but impressive occasion. 
The National Catholic Alumni Fed­eration meets at Notre Dame Nov. 20. The St. Joe Valley Club will be heard from then. 
TOLEDO Dear Jim: The Notre Dame Club of Toledo has resumed activity for the Fall and Winter season. Election of officers was held last May. We had no meetings during 
June and July; but held several golf tournaments throughout the summer. In event that you do not know the elected I am listing them: John Care}', Pres., Frank Sloan, V. Pres., Norbert Scharf, Treasurer, and my­self as secretary. No doubt all the above officers seem familiar except­ing myself. I attended the Univer­sity only one year and was an off-campus student. Ever since I left, any activity associated TOth the Uni­versity of Notre Dame interested me greatly, hence the not easy task of secretary was wished upon me. The Toledo club and all others concerned have my promise to do the best I can. I hope this eifort will measure up to 
my predecessors. 
We are having a Farewell Dance September 10 and are endeavoring by this means to make the treasury look and sound more encouraging to the Club. We have a more or less large committee working on this undertak­ing of which I am chairman. 
Also, the Club, no doubt will have requests for means of getting good football resen'ations this Fall. 
Fred Sprenger. 

he was awarded a licentiate in the­
ology. Shortly afterwards he was 
recalled to Notre Dame and within 
a few months entered Laval univer­
sity in Quebec, where in 1916 he was 
given a doctorate in sacred theology. 
He was professed in 1907 and or­
dained in 1915. 
When the United States entered 
(Continued on next lia;;e) 

WATERBURY Jim Monaghan, secretary, writes: The local club has done nothing of importance during the summer, but if conditions warrant we hope for a busy Fall season. John Robinson, vice-president, seemed to be the most active man in town. His last public­ity was committee chairman of the memorial Mass for the late Rev. Jlichael J. McGivney, founder of the Knights of Columbus. Bill Sullivan is still helping the local judge of probate with wills. Joe Sullivan is with Union Carbide and Carbon in New York. Ted Rourke has not been heard from since the beginning of summer. In the mean­time I am substituting for him at the local high school. A few of us had planned to be at the Commencement exercises this year but we just didn't get to it. Well, Jim, we are, I think the youngest Notre Dame club to date and have not done much so far, but as we grow older I hope that our association will be a credit to the Uni­versity and to those who represent her. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 

John B. Reardon, new secretary of the Western Pennsylvania club, sends word of a change of luncheons there. The weekly luncheon is now held at Kilkeary's hotel, 135 Ninth St., Pitts­burgh, every Thursday at 12:15. 
The club this summer met the de­pression with a right to the jaw, pay­ing one-half the dues in the Alumni Association and §1 Living Endow­ment for every active member of the club who would contribute the other $2.50. As a result, the club ranks first in the percentage of dues paid members. 
It is through such support and sen­timent that the Alumni Board re­ceived sufficient encouragement to be­gin again the long hard sail through the Fiscal Red Sea. 
the world war he became chaplain of the 137th field artillery regiment at Fort Shelby, Hattiesburg, Miss. He later was sent to France, send­ing with the SOth field artillery. 
Returning to the United States, he was made superior of Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame and held that office for six years. In 1925 he was appointed vice-president of the University for two years. He later was elected provincial superior of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
On Aug. 1, 1927, before an audi­ence that completely filled the Church of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame and in the presence of about 400 clergymen, local and out-of-town, as well as three archbishops, 16 bishops, eight monsignors and other digni­taries of the church he was conse­crated bishop of his diocese by the Most Rev. Peter J. Hurth, C.S.C, D.D., of Austin, Texas, titular arch­bishop of Bostra. It was the second time in its existence that the walls of the Notre Dame edifice had witnessed such a ceremony and 33 years had passed since the first took place when the aged Archbishop Hurth was ele­vated to the ranks of Bishop of Dac­ca, India. 
So many beautiful things were said of him, the ALUMNUS cannot begin to reprint them. The funeral sermon by one of his diocesan priests wa.; eloquent tribute. Rev. Norbert Ho!T, teaching at Notre Dame this year, president of Bishop Finnigan's dioce­san college in Helena, also wrote a beautiful eulogy. 
Funeral seri'ices were held in Helena, following which the body, ac­companied by Rev. Charles L. O'Don­nell, C.S.C, the Rev. William McNa­mara, C.S.C, and the Most Rev. Ed­win O'Hara, D.D., Bishop of Great Falls, was returned to Notre Dame where Bishop Finnigan had asked to be buried. 
One of the most notable ceremonies held at Notre Dame was the funeral of Bishop Finnigan, a congregation that filled the church to capacity at­tending at 9:00 o'clock Monday morn­ing. Besides eight Bishops and as many Monsignori, there %vere nearly two hundred Holy Cross priests. Brothers, seminarians and Brother postulants of the Congregation; up­wards of eighty Fort Wayne dioce­san priests; a large group of secular and religious priests from distant cities; numerous groups of Sisters, including Holy Cross from Notre Dame and St. Mary's; alumni mem­bers, hundreds of South Bend and visiting members of the laity and military delegations. 
The Most Rev. John Francis Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort WajTie, and one of the co-consecrators of Bishop Fin­nigan, was celebrant of the Solemn Pontifical Requiem Mass. Moreau Seminary choir, which sang at the funeral, was under the direction of the Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C. The Rt. Rev. Msgr. John Brady of New York was arch-priest; the Very Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, presi­dent emeritus of Notre Dame, and the Rev. Henry McFall, pastor of the Cathedral, Philadelphia, Pa., were deacons of honor; the Rev. Norbert 
C. HofT, LL.D. president of Carroll College, Helena, Mont., was deacon, and the Rev. Richard CoUentine, C.S.C, superior of the Holy Cro.ss mission band, sub-deacon of the Mass; the Rev. William R. Connor, C.S.C, master of ceremonies. 
Bishop Noll, following the Mass, pronounced the final absolution. Later a military procession formed outside the church to escort the body to the Commimity cemetery. A drum and bugle corps from the Polish-Ameri­can Legion post 357, headed the line of march. 
A firing squad from Co. I, 152nd infantry, Indiana National Guard, under the direction of Sergt. Joseph Blanford, followed. Members of Lottie A. Zell Garrison, No. 14G, Army and Navy Union and Col. George W. Freyermuth, commander of the 137th Field Artillerj', with which Bishop Finnigan had served for several months at Fort Shelby, Hart­itesburg. Miss., were also in proces­sion. 
In the Community cemetery the body of Bishop Finnigan was laid to rest near the great crucifix in the section in which former provincials are interred. Bishop Noll gave the last blessing and led in the recitation of prayers for the departed. After the short military service a firing squad fired three volleys over the grave and taps were sounded. Later many knelt at the grave to pray for the beloved prelate. "None knew him but to love him. None named him but to praise." 
HOLY CROSS PRIESTS, FIRST ORDAINED BY BISHOP FINNIGAN. 
Left to Tiiiht: Revs. D'Rozario, Philip Moore. John Kane. Henry BolKor, Thomas Kelley. Leo Flood, Bishop Finnisan, Lawrence Grancr, Charles McjVIlister, Paul Doherty. Raymond Piper, Georse Baldwin, and Joseph Hart. 
joying a rapidly growing legal prac­waiter in the faculty dining room, 
DEATHS tice, which he augmented with politi­member of the Law Club; out for 
cal activ^ities. The strain of a cam­football; chairman of the Senior Ball. 
Two legal carrers that showed un­paign so weakened him that an infec­Rev. James Stack, C.S.C, one of usual brilliance were cut short. Tlie tion found him without resistance. Frank's rectors, attended the funeral first was that of FRANCIS EUGENE He was the type of boy Notre in Joliet and delivered the eulogy. DAILEY, LL.B. '30, who died in Dame likes—out for activities, with­The second young lawver was the Joliet, 111., July 9. Frank was en­out sacrificing his studies; a popular brilliant OSCAR LAVERY, '25, who 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1SS2 
died from a spinal infection in the hospital at Bridgeport, Conn., August 
20. Oscar was one of the most tal­ented orators, actors and scholars of recent years at Notre Dame. He was a teacher of public speaking at the University during his student days and taught a year after graduation. Ambitious in law, he returned To Bridgeport and attended Yale law school. He became a member of the faculty of Harding high school In 
^Bridgeport and combined teaching and law. In 192S he was graduated in law from Yale and formed a part­nership. He had intended to give up teaching this year for the exclusive practice of law and was talked of as a candidate for the legislature. 
The largest funeral ever held in St. Charles Church was testimony to the city's high regard for the youth­ful barrister. Rev. RajTnond Murray, C.S.C., was in the sanctuary, and the Notre Dame alumni of Bridgeport at­tended in a body, six of them actinc; as honorary pall-bearers. Oscar i.s sun-ived by his mother and father, two brothers, and four sisters. 
T\vo young alumni suffered death in the water during the summer. FRANCIS A. O'TOOLE, A.B. '28, died while attempting a rescue in Eagle River, Houghton, Mich., on July 20. Frank, who came to Notre Dame from San Diego. Calif., was a physical instructor in Chicago. He is survived by a wife and three children, his mother, a sister, and a brother JAMES who was at N. D. with Frank. 
• The second death was that of GEORGE A. KIENER, A.B. '28, who died from a heart attack while swim­ming in the Allerton pool in Cleve­land, June 21. George was a deep student of philosophy and had taught at St. Thomas College and St. Ed­ward's University after doing gradu­ate work at the Catholic University. He is sun-ived by his parents and a younger brother. 
Word was received, without further detail, of the death in June of JAMES EUGENE SULLIVAN, Ph.B.Com.. '26. The last address the Office had for him was Pine City, Minn. 
N. J. COMERFORD, 'SI, Joliet, III., retired business man, died suddenly in Joliet, HI., his home, Sept. 14. 
REV. FRANCISCO MARIN-SOLA. 
LL.D. '16, Dominican priest from Manila, outstanding in the field of Dogma, died June 5 at the University of Santo Tomas, Manila. He had traveled extensively and taught in this country, in Manila and at Fri­bourg in Switzerland. A letter from the Rector of the University says, "He died from heart disease, and re­ceived with great devotion the last sacraments." 
BIRTHS 
MR. and MRS. ^^CTOR LEMMER, '26, Ironwood, Mich., are the parents of a daughter bom Aug. 3. Vic and Mrs. Lemmer now have two girls and a boy. 
AIR. and MRS. JOHN MULLEN, '28, Chicago, are parents of a daugh­ter, Antonia, bom July 20. John adds that MR and MRS. CHARLES KIZER, '29, became the parents of a boy on the same day. That old law of averages—. 
MR. and MRS. THOMAS D. MOTT, JR., 'IS, are parents of a son, T. D. Mott IV. The babv's grandfather is THOMAS D. MOTT, '95. 
MR. and MRS. J. MELVIN ROHR­BACH, '23, Crown Point, Ind., are parents of a daughter bom August 
18. A Notre Dame prospect was on hand to greet the sister. 
MR. and MRS. MARC FIEHRER. '27, Hamilton, 0.. are parents of a young lady, the birth on April 21st having only been discovered in the St. Mary's alumnae magazine during the summer. 
MR. and MRS. JOHN DROEGE, '25, were similarly caught in the above neighboring columns as the parents of John J. II., Cincinnati, 0. 
MR. and MRS. LOUIS BUCKLEY, '28, South Bend, are parents of a daughter bom July 19. 
MR and MRS. CHARLES S. WELLS, '31, are the parents of a son, born June 7. "Red" was in the office this summer for a little visit, enjoy­ing a four-months lay-off and the three-months old son. 
JtR. and JIRS. JOHN D. HAR­RINGTON, '29, Oak Park, 111., are parents of a son, bom June 12. X daughter, born while the Harrington's were in East Orange, completes the farailv, if you don't count the UN­CLES JOHN and CHARLES HOO­VER. 
MR. and MRS. JOE WHALEN, '29, Omaha, Neb., are the parents of a daughter, born May 9. JOHN DOARN in the God-father. 
MR. and MRS. GEORGE LAUGH­LIN (that good old Class of '25), Chi­cago, are the parents of twin boys, Michael Robert and John Francis, bom May IS. Another boy puts George in the 100 per cent N. D. Booster class. 
PROP, and MRS. RAYMOND HOYER, M. A., '24, are parents of a son. Prof. Hoyer is head of the Boy Guidance dei-artment at t>» Univer­sity. 
MARRIAGES 
STEPHEN DRISCOLL, '30, Chica­
go, and Miss Molly Freeh, South 
Bend, were married on June 11. 
JOHN SONNHALTER, '28, Cleve­
land, and Miss Gertrude Little, East 
Cleveland, were married during the 
summer. ROBERT KNOX was the 
best man. CLAYTON LEROUX and 
ARNOLD THOMA were among the 
ushers. 
JAMES P. C.AJINY, '28, Cleveland, 
0., and Miss Kathleen Flanagan, Chi­
cago, were married in the Log Chapel 
at N. D. September. 3. WILLIAM 
DAILY was best man. CHARLEY 
McDERMOTT acted as usher. BOTTS 
CROWLEY, SPIKE McADAMS, 
DAN CURLEY and JOE BENDA 
were among the guests. REV. WEN­
DELL CORCORAN, CS.C. performed 
the ceremony. 
EDWIN E. LEACH, '29, and Miss 
Margaret Doyle, Grand Rapids, were 
married in the Log Chapel at Notre 
Dame on September 3. 
\\aLLIAM N. STEITZ, '30, and 
Miss Edna Diebold, Pittsburgh, Pa., 
were married Sept. 29. AL DIE­
BOLD, FRITZ WILSON and JOHN 
SHEEDY were among the ushers. 
WILLIAM J. MURPHY, '27, Chica­
go, and Miss Mary Kelly, Chicago, 
were married in the Log Chapel, -A.ug. 
27. JOHN SWEENY of Chicago was best man. REV. PATRICK DOLAN, CS.C. officiated. 
CHARLES C. COLLINS, '25, coach 
of football at the U. of North Caro­
lina, and Miss Nell Jones, Elizabeth 
City, N. C, were married there -4ug. 
27. 
FRANK G. HEUPEL, '29, and Miss Mary Hoff, were married July 2 in .4.ubum, Ind. 
MARK G. IvREUTZER, '24, San Francisco, and Miss Marie Lang, Pittsburgh, were married July 19. Father E. V. Kreutzer, C. SS. R., brother of Mark, officiated. 
WILLIAM L. FOOHEY, '25, Penn's Grove. N. J., and Miss Louise Pflag­ing, Maplewood, N. J., were married Julv 2. 
WILLIAM KIRWAN, '28, Portage, Wis., and Miss Elsie Boyne, Green Bay, were married Aug. 30. VIN­CENT WALSH was best man. 
WILLARD J. CROXALL, '32, and Miss Martha Jane Doran, South Bend, were married in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame September 3. Whitey is staying at N. D. for his M.A. this vear. 
NORBERT HARBERT, '30, and Miss Oreana Thomas, were married June 15 in Canton, Ohio. 
WILLIAM H. McCULLOUGH. '27, and Miss Lucy Lee, Detroit, Mich., were married at Notre Dame June 27. 
GEORGE VLK, '31, and Miss LYNETTE GOODEN, Tulsa, Okla., were married in Tulsa on .A.ug. 22. 

October, 1932 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
JOHN E. SULLIVAN, '27, Chica­go, and Miss Marguerite Eapp, Chi­cago, were married by REV. RAY­MOND CLANCY, C.S.C., in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame on Aug. 3. 
JEROME OUELLETTE, '29, Jer­sey City, and Miss Anna McKay, Philadelphia, were married June 29. 
FRANKLYN E. DOAN, '29, New York City, and Miss Mary Keena­ghan, Larchmont, were married on August 22. 
EDWARD F. BRODERICK, '27, Morristown, N. J., and Miss Marietta Kavanagh, Hoboken, were married July 20. 
EUGENE H. EDWARDS, '27, Weston, W. Va., and Miss Sarah Brewster, were married in Weston on Sept. 24. 
PERSONALS 
Before 1880 

The Athletic Office recently received a request for tickets for the Southern California game from GEORGE HALDORN, 1017 Bankers Bldg., Los Angeles. Mr. Haldorn was a student at Notre Dame from 1860 to 1SG4, and apparently has found California all that its most ardent realtors claim for it. 
CASSIUS PROCTOR, C.E. '75, first engineering graduate of Notre Dame, was the victim of a confidence game in Akron, early in July, to the extent of $10,000. With the old Notre Dame fight, Mr. Proctor told the papers, "I'm not broke. I have enough money. I was sucker enough to be taken in, that's all." A month before Mr. Proc­tor's graduation he was appointed the first city engineer of Elkhart, Ind. He later owned the electric light-plant there. He moved to Akron twelve years ago, since then losina his wife and daughter. Mr. Proctor's cheerfulness in the face of his loss was a source of much admii-ation ia the Akron papers. 
1880-1895 

DR. JOHN B. BERTELING has en­joyed a busy summer in connection with a political controversy between the South Bend board of health, which he heads, and the Mayor. 
1886 

No word has been received from the Class Secretary, who also serves as president of the Notre Dame Club of Hamilton. But Class Secretaries can't turn up columns without a little help from Classmates. 
1887 

The cool breezes of Ludington seem to have satisfied the Class Secretary. He not only has not appeared but 
seems to have been lulled past cor­respondence. But with football and a Lay Trustee meeting in November, the next issue ought to have some­thing. 
1888 

VERY REV. JAMES BURNS, C.S.C., was re-elected Provincial of the Congregation as announced in the lead article of this issue. The term is si.x years. 
The Editor had only a brief e.x­change of greetings with the Class Secretary at the funeral of the late BISHOP FINNIGAN, '10. 
1889 

Several new boys from New Orleans in school this year testify to alumni activity there, headed bv P. E. BURKE. 
1890-93 

It is with more than pleasure that the ALUMNUS has induced REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, to con­tribute a few book suggestions each month. The magazine enjoys a real pride in knowing that our alumni will enjoy through him the best cultural guidance available. 
The Class Secretary has enjoyed a difficult summer as the victim of an overdue bill, payment for which was deferred by the red tape that accom­panies debts incurred for sweet char­ity. The Alumni, Athletic and Rockne Memorial offices finally untangled the details and the Secretary again walks the streets of Minneapolis unhaunted. 
So anxious is the Alumni Office to collect dues that C. A. PAQUETTE was billed after paying promptly on the first reminder. Or perhaps it is because the proper record was neg­lected in sheer surprise that a first reminder could thus move an alum­nus. (Nor do we refer to Mi'. Paquette.) (Nor do we refer to the Classes from '90 to '93 alone.) (But — .) 
1894 

The Class Secretary writes: I am besieged with youngsters who have made their applications to enter Notre Dame. It is amazing what each one wants. Some want employment, others a scholarship, another wishes to lay plans to work his way through after the first year; still another wants a room, etc. Best of all, most of them are getting what they are after. There is quite a large group going West from New York City for their education. 
1895 

The Editor hears occasionally of the talented DANIEL V. CASEY through his niece who was so im­pressed by "Uncle Dan" that she married a Notre Dame man, TOM COMAN, '25. 
1896 

A ticket application for the North­western game indicates that the Class Secretary will be on hand November 12. 
1897 

FATHER MAC reports that the Class hasn't flooded him with' news this summer. He spent some time in the East, partly in New England and partly in Garden City. By the time you read this he e.xpects to be back at Mount Clemens, Mich., St. Joseph's Sanitarium, where the good Sisters put him in shape for the football sea­son. Few men live for Notre Dame as he does. 
1898 

Among the condolences which came to Notre Dame on the death of the late Bishop Finnigan, '10, was one from WILLLA.M F. MONTAVON in Washington, where Mr. Montavon is legal director of the N.C.W.C. 
1899 

Prominent among the familiar fig­ures of the Congregation here for the General Chapter this summer was the genial REV. MATTHEW SCHU­MACHER, president of St. Thomas College. 
1900 

A loyal leader in the movement, JOHN W. EGGEMAN was in custo­mary welcome evidence at the Lay Retreat on the campus. Illness didn't succeed in keeping the Judge away from this admirable activity that claims considerable of his time and shows it in a strong Ft. Wayne rep­resentation. 
1901 

The Editor was promised some news of EDUARD F. HAY by PEDRO DE LANDERO, who was in Mexico City this summer, but the visit with PEDRO had not been en­joyed at this writing. 
1902 

The following letter from the nev/ Class Secretary indicates that the Alumni Office ought to refer him, at least, to a recent ad on ridding one's self of an inferiority complex. It's a strange note in Oass news. 
"That 1902 class was a great Class, all brilliant, forceful and—^you know all the other adjectives. They each and all had a touch of genius and were sure to make names and places for themselves, but Jim, I have been so busy trying to make a living during the last thirty years that have not noted the meteoric rise—and fall — of these other geniuses. The 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
name and place I have succeeded in making has not caused any cata­clysmic change in the economical or social world, and the rest of the class has apparently forgotten that I was a genius. As a law student, I did not expect any fame to flow to the class from members of other schools, so I-have not followed their activities closely. 
• "So please use your column in the ALUMNUS to ask the boys of 1902 to tell me in confidence where they are and what they are doing (if they are in jail they need not specify which one.) Are they married or single? How many children and what sexes? How many times have they taken the bankruptcy law, and if not at all, when do they expect to do so? Tell them to advise me in strict personal confidence if they have enough left to make it worth while to refer them to a Notre Dame law­yer of the Class of 1902 to file their schedule in insolvency. You know a man can be too poor to go through bankruptcy. 
"If you print this notice in your column, some of the great Class of 1902 may send me a postal, and I shall be glad to edit their reports— favorably—and give you the "facts" as a 1902 man thinks they should be reported." 
1903 
Returning as full - time publicity man for the University this fall 's JOSEPH PETRITZ, '32, son of FRANK J. PETRITZ, Rockford, 111. 
REV. 'MATTHEW J. WALSH is looking some better these days fol­lowing several operations and a num­ber of months of unfortunate poor health. REV. DOMINIC O'MALLEY is the same jovial figure, though seen less often, as Superior of the Com­munity House. REV. J. L. CARRICO has had a busy summer in the office of Director of Studies, summer ses­sion and regular session chasing each other in work. 
VITUS JONES, and son FRANCIS JONES, '29, were among the lawyers attending the Indiana Bar Associa­tion's convention at Notre Dame dur­ing the summer. 
1904 
A son of ROBERT E. PROCTOR is attending Notre Dame this year. Bob has the boy living on the campus in spite of the short distance between here and Elkhart. There'll be noth­ing synthetic about Proctor fils says Proctor pere. 
Following are a few paragraphs from a feature story about ED REULBACH, which appeared recent­ly in the Chicago Tribune: 
During the first decade of the twentieth century when the Chicago Cubs were in the spotlight constantly as National league pennant winners, one of the mainstays of their pitching staff was Edward M. Reulbach, rugged right hander. Chicago fans mar\-eled at his effectiveness and his coolness under fire. 
Today Ed Reulbach is a gray-haired man who has passed his 50th year. But he is in good health and up until a year ago was actively engaged in operating a tire store in this town. He lives at 20 Maplewood avenuo, Maplewood, N. J. 
Tlie depression hit the tire business and Ed abandoned the store. -At the present he is taking things easy at his home. He lives with his wife and aged mother. 
Although it is several years since he pitched his last major league game, the memories of his many triumphs and defeats are vivid in Reulbach's mind. He'll never forget his happy days in a Chicago uniform when he was a world series hero. He speaks very little of them, though. 
After attending Notre Dame for three seasons Reulbach was a student at the University of Vermont and at Washington university in St. Louis. He stepped from the campus of Ver­mont to the Chicago Cubs in 1905. 
During his tenure with Chicago, his team won four pennants and two world series. The pennants were gained in 1906, 1907, 1908, and 1910, and the world championships wer an­nexed in 1907 and 190S. 
"No," he admitted, "I don't follow up baseball like I used to. I hardly look at the box scores these days. I have lost a lot of interest in the pa.s­time, but it's a grand old game." 
Perhaps the continued sickness of his son, who died last fall at the age of 21, had a lot to do with Ed's losing interest in baseball. 
Reulbach would talk about the ex­ploits of his teammates, but had little to say about himself. 
If asked to discuss his own achieve­ments, Reulbach dismisses the sub­ject with the terse reply: "You'll have to look up the records." 
And here is what the record book says of Reulbach's career with the Cubs: 
Earned Year— Won Lost Pet. run.av. 
1905  IS  14  .562  2.01  
1906  „  9  4  .826  1.S9  
1907  17  4  .810  1.63  
1908  _  _. 24  7  .774  2.08  
1909  19  10  .655  1.91  
1910  12  8  .600  3.93  
1911  16  9  .640  3.91  
1912  10  8  .625  3.78  
*1913  8  9  .470  2.67  
Totals  143 71  .668  2.67  

* Traded to Brooklyn Aug. 14, 1913. 
The great Chicago pitcher of other years was bom in Detroit and passed his boyhood days there where he ob­tained baseball experience on the sand lots. He played baseball at Notre Dame, where he attracted the atten­tion of big league scouts. 
1905 
The Class Secretary stopped by a few weeks ago on his way from Sau­gatuck to Chicago and looked great, but was not fluent as far as this par­ticular column goes. 
BILLY BOSLER, Louisville, visited the Alumni Office recently and report­ed that LOU SALMON was rumored to be headed for Louisville in charge of a big construction job there. 
While the Editor was standing on a comer one day this summer waiting for a garage car to take him out TO Bertrand to recover a stolen and stripped Essex (to what depths these thieves descend) JOHN WORDEN went by and after recognizing the Editor in this old-time comer stand­ing capacity, offered a lift but was motioned on. Never have had a chance to tell John that I wasn't practicing hitch-hiking for a tour of the Local aubs. 
BILLY JAMIESON was apparently the victim, a check for dues unfortun­ately informed the Office, of one of the numerous South Side bank fail­ures in Chicago this summer. Who on the South Side wasn't. 
1906 
The Class of 1906 doesn't need to worry about publicity at Notre Dame. Every time the able President of the institution does or says anything, it reflects credit on the Class and visi­tors are awed by the "John F. Cush­ing, C. E. '06," in stone scroll on the magnificent engineering edifice. .\nd 40,000 people can't be WTong about the weekly stimulus of literary Ca­tholicism they derive from The Are Maria, whose talented editor is the REV. EUGENE BURKE. 
Down town in South Bend E. M. MORRIS is one of the big reasons why the Republican party and the local banking institutions continue strong. He has become the financial oracle of the community through a successful reorganization of a local bank of which he is president and is constantly turning down offices in the state Republican organization. Every important civic and charitable move­ment gains from his endorsement. 
1907 
Word from New York savs, "ABI­BROSE O'CONNELL is the active actor in FRANK WALKER'S organ­ization, the Democratic National Committee, and runs it with a bang. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Walker, as announced elsewhere, was 
made treasurer of the Committee this 
summer. 
VERY REV. JAMES W. DONA­HUE, C.S.C., Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, spent an active summer, as reported in the Chapter story. REV. WILLIAM BOLGER, C.S.C, was among tho.se present, coming from St. Thomas Col­lege. REV. WILLIAM CUNNING­HAM, C.S.C, also of St. Thomas, was on the campus during the summer. 
1908 

LERO Y J. IvEACH was a welcome visitor during registration. He was entering his daughter in St. Mary's, which, he said, would probably bring him to most of the home football games. 
REV. JOSEPH J. BOYLE, C.S.C. was on hand to greet the hundreds of Lay Retreatants whom he interested in the movement and in Notre Dame and who look for him annually in spite of his work at St. Thomas which removed him from the Retreat field locally. 
1909 FRANK WALKER'S appointment as treasurer of the Democratic Na­tional Committee is reported more fully in another page. REX LAMB is Justice of the Peace in Buchanan, Michigan, and was re­cently written up in some detail as the owner of a number of pedigreed dogs. 
1910 

The loss of BISHOP FINNIGAN was a real blow to the Class of 1910. REV. M. L. MORIARTY was a pall­bearer. 
REV. DENIS O'SHEA, C.S.C, has returned to South Bend as assistant pastor at St. Joseph's Church. 
1911 The series of articles by REV. PATRICK CARROLL, C.S.C, on the Eucharistic Congress which have been 
appearing in The Ave Maria have at­tracted wide and favorable comment. PEDRO DE LANDERO and his family spent the summer in Mexico, Pedro's old home. Having been as­sured of political peace this summer, Pedro ran into earthquakes and floods which were almost as bad as the bul­lets which drove him from home some years ago. He has promised more details at the Office when his classes at the University have been organ­ized. One of his sons is a freshman 
here this year. REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C, whose work as Prefect of Religion has brought Notre Dame and its reli­gious system world fame, has set up new quarters in the beautiful Dillon 
Hall. Facilities for Fr. O'Hara's 
work were specially incorporated and 
the Chapel is all that could be asked 
for anywhere. The Sorin Chapel is 
still used to a large extent to pre­
serve the beautiful traditions that 
have grown up around it. 
FRED STEERS was the recipient of so much publicity this summer with his obviously successful han­dling of the American women's team in the Olympics that modesty forbade him sending in any dope. 
1912 

JOHN P. MURPHY took time out from juggling railroads long enough to a.ssure the Alumni Office that he would do everything he could to pro­mote the work of the Governor of District III of the Association. 
The 1932-33 Catalogue of the Uni­versity lists HON. M. M. OSHE among the special lecturers in the College of Law. 
1913 

E. C "BARNEY" SCHONLAU got close enough to N. D. this summer— Detroit—to pay a flying visit. But the Editor missed him, so few other facts were available. 
PAUL R. BYRNE has begun an­other year in the capacity of Univer­sity Librarian. Efficiency is such a quiet virtue that the credit due Paul is seldom given, but those who have occasion to employ the Library sing few praises higher. 
1914 

A letter from JEROME WILDGEN, Hoisington, Kansas, brings an inter­esting picture of Jerome's family of three fine boys and two girls, also fine. The oldest boy and the older girl were celebrating First Commun­ion day when the picture was taken. Jerome asked to be remembered to Frs. Cavanaugh, Farley, Schumacher, O'Donnell and MacNamara. 
WILLIAM R. REDDEN entertained the Milwaukee alumni at his home this summer and is just about the deus ex machinn of that live-wire or­ganization. 
FRANK HAYES seems to be en­joying a complete relaxation from his duties of last year as president of the Alumni Association. 
1915 

EMMETT LENIHAN, who heads the list of assistants to the prose­cuting attorney of King County, (Seattle), Washington, writes: ". . . Some of the heads of our financial institutions out here failed to walk in the straight and narrow path, so I have just finished a five weeks trial by dispatching one of them to the penitentiary on ten counts of grand larceny. .. . It has been ten years since I last visited Notre Dame, but 'hope springs eternal' and some day I'll get back again." Enunett wrote the letter himself and adds, "Pity the poor Fathers in the days of old who had to decipher my themes and examination papers." He is Governor of District XXI of the Alumni Asso­ciation for the year. 
The new Prefect of Discipline, REV. PATRICK DOLAN, CS.C. must give the Class a real thrill of satisfaction in the conduct of that office. Father Dolan has already established himself favorably with everyone whom he has contacted. 
The Editor saw MARK DUNCAN in the Oliver Hotel recently, looking good and on one of the frequent trips that seldom fail to permit a short stop-over off at N. D. 
An address by GEORGE SHUSTER, managing editor of the Commontoeal,. was read recently from a Washing­ton, D. C, radio station. The sub­ject was the present economic status in the light of the papal encyclicals, "Rerum Novarum" and "Quadrages­imo Anno." 
1916 

TIMOTH Y P. GALVIN, silver tongued orator of the Class, repre­sented the laity of the Diocese of Fort Wayne in the recent dedication of a new orphanage, St. Vincent's Villa, in Fort Wayne. 
REV. J. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C, president of St. Edward's Uni­versity, was a pall-bearer at the fu­neral of BISHOP FINNIGAN this summer and spent a few days follow­ing at Notre Dame. 
1917 

WALTER DUCEY, who is pursu­ing his E.E. through the Allied Engi­neers in Jackson, Michigan, has been co-operating in the contacting of stu­dents in the Jackson area. 
LEO S. BERNER, a member of the detective squad of the South Bend police force, is a frequent figure in the news of the day. 
REV. M. A. MULCAIRE, C.S.C. has probably had a harder time with the depression than any of the mem­bers of the Class. Father Mulcaire has the duty of delegating the cam­pus jobs to the boys, a more detailed account of which is somewhere in this issue. 
1918 

A letter from LEONARD F. MAYER indicates that his iiJS. is promoting the New York Power and Light Corp. Leonard is at 126 State St., Albany, and like all alumni east of the Rockies, plans on being at the Army game. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 19-12 
LOUIS FOLLETT has been a most 
•welcome correspondent as Treasurer of the Western Pennsylvania Club this summer. Almost every letter brought the dues of several of the Pittsburghers. 
JOHN LEMMER was a member of the summer school faculty at Colum­bia in Portland this summer, creating a regrettable vacancy here thereby, but adding an interesting trip through the north country for John. 
JIM LOGAN and his children Tvere visiting in the city this summer. The Editor had the pleasure of attending a gathering of alumni at the home of BERNIE VOLL, '17, in Jim's honor. 
1919 
AL ABRAMS, '21, returned from New York recently with news of mar­velous treatment at the Warwick Hotel, 56th and Sixth Ave., the an­swer being CHARLEY MCCAULEY, who, as assistant manager, makes the Notre Dame visitors as welcome as old man Warwick himself. Charley himself subsequently wrote and con­firmed the rumor (and it's a good thing the Editor doesn't pun, much.) The Warwick is a combination tran­sient - apartment hotel. CHARLEY BUTTERWORTH and WALTE R O'KEEFE have both been guests at Charley's. Al says Charley makes you feel as though you were a com­bination of Father Sorin and Father Cavanaugh, heavily endowed. 
The Editor met PAUL FENLON at football scrimmage recently and with him E. J. "STRETCH" O'CONNOR, who is in Erie, Pa. 
1920 
Mrs. Naomi Donnelly, wife of ED­WIN C. DONNELLY, died in Toledo, Ohio during the summer. Besides her husband, Mrs. Donnelly leaves a son. 
HARRY MEHRE is watering Georgia's peaches with tears over the loss of 14 lettermen and the subse­quent prospects for the season at Athens. 
LEO VALKER writes from New York where he has gone into an ar­chitectural partnership, Stapleton and Valker, 2 W. 46th St. 

The ALUMNUS seems to have been unfortunately unaware of the arrival of a son to the SLIP MADI­GANS last February. By this time, Edward Eugene is probably ready lo hand Southern Cal another licking. 
1921 

As appears in the Detroit Club news, AL SLAGGERT seems to have had a large summer, with a trip that took in the major points of interest in the North American continent. 
RAY SCHUBMEHL is among the members of the faculty who have re­turned for another onslaught against the forces of ignorance, Ray taking the mathematical offensive. 
1922 
It is a great honor for a class to be called upon to furnish a president for the Alumni -Association. 
It is a great honor even in normal times, and there is no need to tell you that these are not normal times. 
Two splendid and able men were chosen as candidates for president of the association for the year — RAY MILLER, present mayor of Cleve­land and our own PAT MANION, professor in the College of Law. If either became president, Notre Dame could not lose. 
Pat Manion was the choice of the 
electorate, but surely the loser could 
not feel badly about it for he him­
self is one of Pat's greatest boosters. 
We of '22 console the loser, which, 
of course, is unnecessary. 
We of '22 congratulate the winner, and that too is unnecessary, though plausible. 
But we surely must extend a help­ing hand to Pat and do everything possible to make his reign a merry one and a very successful one despite the obstacles which confront him at the outset. 
Pat is abundantly gifted with all the traits necessary to perform real leadership. But the greatest of lead­ers must have an army. 
We of '22 are only a corporal's guard compared to the association as a whole, although we yield to no other group in our loyalty to Notre Dame. 
^\^ly not furnish inspiration to other groups by paying our alumni dues thus creating a fund to enable Pat to accomplish something? 

Nothing has been seen or heard of JERRY DIXON since the Democratic convention in Chicago. It is hoped that Dix will forsake his hiding place and put in an appearance at the Northwestern game. Pretty soon he will be crowding CLETE LYNCH out of first place in the mystery league. 
Some people have all the luck. GENE KENNEDY, AL SCOTT, THURMUND MUDD, and HARRY DENNY were watching the Olympic games at Los Angeles while the rest of us were reading about them in the newspapers. 
Father BOB GALLAGHER, who was winning elections at Notre Dame long before James Farley's fame crossed the Hudson, was present at Commencement last June. His pres­ence may or may not have had any political significance, but the fact re­mains that Father Bob was never known to back a loser and it is com­mon knowledge that he is not un­friendly with Pat Manion. Father Bob is at St. Theresa's, Toledo, when he is not at Notre Dame bemoaning the days that were. 
CHET WYNNE and ROGE KILEY have not changed a bit since they left the campus. They are coaching at Alabama Poly and expect a good season. 
HUNK ANDERSON is making no claims for the Notre Dame team for the coming season. However, we would just as soon wager our old straw hat that Notre Dame will sparkle a bit before the snow flies. 
If EDDIE ANDERSON and FRANKIE BLASIUS do not report pretty soon, they are to be posted and fined for negligence. 
Marion Judith Jones is creating considerable havoc in the Jones hom.e these days demanding attention at all hours of the dav and night. Mr. and Mrs. JERRY JONES of Dixon, 111. are the proud and happy parents of Marion Judith. We hereby extend our congratulations. 

1923 PAUL CASTNER covers more dis­tance with Studebaker trucks than most people do with planes, and as a result hasn't been about a great deal to hound for the Class column. WILLIAM H. HASKINS was a vis­itor to the -A.lumni Ofiice in Septem­ber. Bill's address had been missing for some time. It is 3563 90th St., Jackson Heights, L. I. -A. letter from ICEVIN CURRAN states that the Grosvenor Hotel, Ed­inburgh, Scotland, would be the Cur­ran shelter for the current year. CHARLEY DAVIS and his orches­tra played in South Bend recently. Charley has scored a big hit nation­ally with his orchestra. The outfit appearing here was in fifteen pieces and included several entertainers. 
1924 A letter from AL BOEHM says that he is back in Buflfalo after a year in Kansas City, 448 Crescent Ave., being the Buffalo headquarters. CHARLIE DE BARRY is back in New York. He had come out to De­troit with the Graham organization, but the death of Ray Graham during the summer made Charlie believe that his best prospects were back in the main canyons. That HAYES lad, who is presum­ably the mystic through whom the spirit of the Class of '24 speaks, is reported to be aging after the man­ner of lately wed boulevardiers. The Editorial theory, however, holds to the lines of batches of copy at inter­vals during the past year, descending in various depths the numberless floors of the Empire State building. And when it arrives finally at the 
October, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
street level, it will be no trouble at all to whisk it out here, and then for the blossoming of this resen-ed space! 
1925 SCALLAN'S summer visits to the Editorial asylum having been no more frequent than other manifestations of that once familiar figure in campu:5 parts, this section, too, profits only from the intrusion of accidental ac­quisition, such as 
GEORGE LAUGHLIN'S twin sons. 

JOE MENGER adds a few note.s from the Southwest. "FRANCIS WILLIAM LEARY, as he is known in the oil fields at Kilgore, Te.x., and to his intimate friends as "Chief" came down with his wife (the former Mii;s Bickle of South Bend), his mother, and aunt and brother, for a day's visit. . . . The Chief was the custo­dian of the morgue on the 2nd floor of "Welch's Hall Dormitory Bldg." in the days of SHELLEY and SNAIC­ARD. Shelley has returned to Chi­cago after a year in Ft. Worth. Snakard has been transferred from Dallas to St. Louis by the American Airways, Inc. The rest of the old guard are 0. K." 
RAY SOBATZKI has been trans­ferred by the Du Pont interests from Wilmington, Del. to South Milwaukee, Wis., where he is living at 505 Haw­thorne Ave. 
JIMMY CROWLEY continued to increase his reputation as an after-dinner speaker during the summer. News from Syracuse is that he com­pletely won the crowd at an athletic dinner for Syracuse University. 
NORB SKELLEY is located at the University Club, Tulsa, Okla., repre­senting Eli Lilly and Co. in the Tulsa area. Norb was established at the Club through THOMAS SHEA, presi­dent of the N. D. Club of Oklahoma, and seems to be optimistic about business and alumni activities in the oil country. 
LARRY CASEY, the old truckster et al of the Casey-NEVILLE com­bination, wrote during the summer with welcome news from Batavia. Larry is Justice of the Peace while Bill is prosecuting attorney. Betiveen them they kill or cure most of the citizens of the Batavia underworld. Larry adds, "I met DAN BRADY, that good looking fellow from the West, last New Year's in Buffalo. . . . I hope to see Notre Dame play this fall, and also hope that they have a winning team." 
VIRGIL FAGAN is out at 839 Lake St., Oak Park, 111., working for the McCormick Historical Associa­tion, a private library of the McCor­mick family. He was formerly in the advertising end of another McCor­mick activity—^International Harves­ter. 
TOM BARRY, the South Bend edi­tor of the Chicago Herald, is conduct­ing the legion activities of that pub­lication minus the erstwhile appendix', which was given to an admiring group of surgeons during the sum­mer. Tom and Mrs. Barry are living in South Bend, 813 Ashland Ave. 
GEORGE LUDWIG, Mrs. Ludwig and George Jr., Charley for short, were down for a day's visit with the ARMSTRONGS during the summer. Even in the short space of one day we managed to see JERRY HOL­LAND, who was convalescing from a bad cold; TOM COMAN, who still puts the city's political destinies into black and white; and CLARENCE ICAISER, who is with the O'Brien Varnish Co. 
1926 

The Office has had a hard time competing with New Jersey obstet­rics, the specialtv of DR. GERALD WELDON HAYES (looks good on frosted glass, doesn't it?). The Jer­sey babies seem to have outnumbered the news items. But, a few bits of dope have straggled in, and to aid Dr. Hayes in his work with what would seem to be the vanishing Americans, we'll assume some re­sponsibility. 
The father of JAKE, DICK and TOM PURCELL, East Orange, N. J. died this fall, and was buried Sep­tember 23rd, according to word from ED HARGAN. 
A note from ROJIAN FELD­PAUSCH reveals the fact that a sec­ond son is already past a first birth­day in the Feldpausch home. 
GEORGE DOLMAGE who added faculty experience to his undergradu­ate work at Notre Dame, has entered the U. of Iowa's medical school, ac­cording to advice from the Regis­trar's office here. 
DAN' O'NEILL of Jersey was a visitor this summer on an annual trip to these familiar haunts. Dan had a lot of dope on the boys in and around New Jersey and New York. Editorial duties took a nap while Armstrong sat back and enjoyed it, with the re­sult that most of it can't be repeated for fear of some slight variation from the original which would be noted and remembered a life time by the vic­tims. 
ERNY LANDRY is with the Draper-Maynard athletic goods com­pany in the Chicago branch, 1403 W. Congress St. 
VIC LEMMER contributes the fol­lowing story: "Yesterday through my office window, I heard the music of the "Victory March," on what sounded like a calliope. Sure enough! It was somebody's way of advertising a movie, "Should the Doctor Tell ?" For men only on Friday and women only on Saturday. I had a notion to peek through the window and see if some college man was working off the de­pression." Vic is in the insurance business in Ironwood, Mich. 
GERRY SMITH is back in Koch-ester with a direct mail advertising company after spending a while in Buffalo. 
BILL REID sends in a note, among the items: "ED FALLON is coming along nicely; JIM DWYER is vaca­tioning in Bermuda; on the way to Long Beach the other day I met JOHNNY HOWARD who tells me that WATTS EICHER is acquiring the soul of New York. . . ." 
CHARLEY MASON seems to have rung not only the bell but the Indiana Bell at that. Charley was appointed general plant supervisor for the state some months ago. A letter from Charley himself says: "There are a number of the boys here with the Bell and although business is not so good we all manage to be remembered on pav day. Some of them at Indianap­olis are JOE QUINLAN, PAUL SKELLEY, BOB GAVIN, '27, CARL FESKE, '27, BILL KONOP, '28, BERNIE LOEFFLER, '28, JOHN MONTBRUN, '28, B. X. GREinL-LION, '28, JOHN GLASKA, '29, BEN KONOP, '29, DON SEHL, '29. SKIP MCDONALD, '27, is at Bloomington, and ED THOMAN, '29, at Sourh Bend. Prof. J. N. Northcott, Jr., is with us for the summer so you see we have quite an N. D. organization. I am intending to drop in and see you the next time I am in South Bend and show you one of N. D.'s coming fullbacks who is now six months old and weighs 19 poimds." 
1927 

• A letter from New York says, "JIR. AND MRS. JOSEPH BKEIG of Van­dergriff. Pa., are visiting here. Joe is the managing editor of the only newspaper there. This is the first time I have seen Mrs. Breig. She is prettier than a picture. She too was born in Vandergriff. Joe was making a definite effort to see WALTER HUGH LAYNE. He finally succeded in locating Hugh at MacFadden's Master Detective Magazine. . . LES­TER GRADY wrote me a note the other day. He was always devoted. Since his marriage I have seen neith­er him nor his baby—^I mean the child. He promises to break away from domesticity sometime soon for a se­ance along the old days or nights." 
Two members of the Class, JOE DUNN and JACK BURNS, lost their mothers during August. 
ART SULLIVAN visited the Alum­ni office on his way, driving, from New York to St. Paul. 
1928 Between a new daughter, Paula, new and bigger economics classes, and 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1933 
a Chevrolet, the Class Secretary hasn't done much hut dash in and out of the office a few times with vague promises. 
BOTTS CROWLEY was here for the wedding of PAT CANNY. Botts left word that JOE KINNEARY is in St. Louis with Anheuser-Busch, that PINKY MARTIN was in Cincinnati recently, that HARRY SYLVESTER, in addition to making the leading magazines, is with the N. Y. Post, and that JOHN M. CROWLEY in person was shifting his invaluable experience to the Cincinnati Athletic Goods company. 
H.A.RVEY DALY dropped in a welcome line, saying he'd like to hear from inCKEY FL.ANAGAN, TOM CASEY and TIM HINCHEY. His ad­dress, for the benefit of these fortu­nate three, is 46-62 156th St., Flush­ing. L. I. 
HENRY HASLEY has become a member of the firm, which is now listed in Ft. Wayne legal directories as Morris, Newkirk and Hasley. This is the firm founded by the late WIL­LIAM P. BREEN, '77. Henrj- was here for the Lay Retreat this summer. 
LARRY WINGERTER has joined the Indianapolis Railways, 908 Trac­tion Terminal Bldg., Indianapolis, coming there from the Des Moines Railway Co. 
DICK WEHS is now DR. RICH­ARD WEHS, ha\inK received his JLD., from Johns Hopkins in June. 
JOHN WHEELER RICKORD is now at 444 N. 18th St., Kansas City, Kansas, in the interests of the Arm­our Co., Rick is also figuring on a little night law study. 
AL E. FARRELL is also Doctor to you. He is at Mercy hospital, Pitts­burgh. 
JOHN McMAHON is with the Associated Press in Pittsburgh, Pa., for the time being. Mac says he may be in Cincinnati or Calcutta at the whim of the AP. 
1929 
.4t intervals the secretary pound.s off the title of this column with the definite article underlined. So that the editor may know that this is "The Class of 1929" let's start off today's sermon with a reference to the two gentlemen who have become "play­boys" on a big scale: JAMES J. QUINN is now the master of cere­monies at the more exclusive Gary beach parties. BOB VOGELWEDE spends his summers in Michigan, his \vinters in Florida and graces the so­cial season in Washington witli an occasional personal appearance. 
And one whom we suspect of fol­lowing the programme is good old BERNIE BIRD who is now tellin? the world about Lake Charles, Louisi­ana as the advertising manager of the Lake Charles Rice Mills . . . Bemie always did have a way with 'em. 
Figuring largely in the life of Wheeling, West Virginia is PAUL CAREY who takes care of the accounting worries of the Hazel -Atlas Glass Company of that city. Your sec, attempted to phone Carey while in Wieeling recently but failed to connect. 
Over in Morristown, New Jersey, Col. Lindbergh, the mighty Babe and other boyhood heroes have to eat at the second table. AnA all because GER.A.LD "BUS" GRIFFIN'S success­es as head coach and the whole show at the Morristown High School have enthroned him in the hearts of tlie youngsters. 
Candidate Norman Thomas is smil­ing broadly these days. Confidentia­ally, its because ARNOLD LEGER­WOOD WILLIAMS is directing the campaign to make the world safe for socialism. Arnold with an M. -A.., on his educational scalp belt has taken a recess from the pursuance of a Ph. D., at North Carolina University to direct the Socialist Party through the wilds of Indiana politics. Williams heads the party's night school in Ind­ianapolis but to date has failed to convert FRANK NOLL, III., WILL­IAM KREIG, or BILL O'CONNOR. The gentlemen drew Arnold's ire he-cause: BILL O'CONNOR is a big operator at the Board of Trade and an officer in a large grocery establish­ment; BILL KREIG, graduated in June from Han-ard, has brought Bos­ton culture to one of the oldest and most respected of the town's corpora­tion and "big-business" law firms; while poor FR.A.NK NOLL comes under the ban because of his connec­tion with the Public Service Commis­sion and the Republican party. 
If the band will now render some slow music 
CLYDE J. ATCHINSON, B. S. in C. E., has married "the girl from Elkhart." . . . ."But doesn't he look natural" 
PAUL L. CL.ARKE is also married and has one child. 
Good old PHIL TOMPKINS is happily married.—R. I. P. Inciden­tally Phil., who was the president of the Pharmacy Club in our senior year, has one child and is a registered pharmacist working for the leading drug corporation in Toledo, Ohio. 
JOHN MAHONEY married Anne in Chicago just about a month ago... 
FRANK J. O'BRIEN is now married and working for Westing­house Electric at its Cicero establish­ment Bob Voglewede has the dope on the marriage of THOM.A.S F. (Mickey) McMAHON. 
DOMINIQUE OUELLETTE is the authority for the news that JEROME 
E. OUELLETTE and Anna Marj- Me Kay of Philadelphia were mamed on June 29th. The couple spent a month in Maine and Canada before return­ing to Jersey City where Jerry is the physical director of the Whittier House Boy's Oub at 174 Grand St. We suspect Dominique of having had something to do with Jerrv's down­fall. 
And now if the band will strike up a political favorite: 
BILL BUTLER is "civic virtuing" it in the City of Cleveland with a nice appointment under Mayor R.A.Y MILLER. Cleveland is to be con­gratulated. 
GEORGE BEAMER heads the Young Men's Democratic organiza­tion of St. Joseph County and is the political protege of Professor PAT MANION' Incidentally, MANION'S key-note speech at the Indiana State Democratic Convention was truly marvelous. It put Manion's name on every lip as the logical candidate for the United States Senate in a couple of years from now. The State Com­mittee is listing Manion as its "Num­ber One" speaker—even putting him ahead of such orators as Paul V. Mc Nutt, candidate for Governor, and Frederick Van Nuys who is running for the Senate. Lots of luck, Pat! 
AL SMITH is the junior district chairman of the Second Indiana Con­gressional District for the Demo­crats. Around LaPorte .41 has been making a name for himself in the legal world. 
Word comes from Ohio that MICH­-A.EL J. O'KEEFE, now practicing law near Salem, Ohio, is in the politi­cal arena 
Rumor insists upon connecting the fair name of IVAN LE BLANC with the political roulette of Michigan's peninsula. We wish that Ivan would drop us a line and let us have the dope. 
LUTHER SWYGERT is one of the "big 12" in charge of Democratic strategy in Indiana. Swygert is District Chairman of the First Dist­rict up around Gary, Whiting, Ham­mond, et. al, where politics is "inter­esting." 
WALTER STANTON made a great reputation for himself as the most powerful debater in the Indiana House of Representatives. If his constitu­ancy returns him Walter will prob­ably be Speaker of the House or Majority Floor Leader, — whichever he prefers. 
FRANK JERIMIAH McCARTHY, ex-business-manager of the Juggler, has been selected as the most astute lobbyist in Indiana by those who know. Mac protects the interests of the railroads. 

October, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Let the band play "California, here we come:" 
Here's one for the books: at a recent conclave of ex-Sorin subway­ites it was stated with authority that JOHN A. VAICHULIS is still run­ning from the crack of a gun on Fox Koad. 
FRED J. WAGNER graduated in law from the University of Southern California. 
H. JIANFORD VEZIE continues on his triumphal march through the films. In Chicago the girls thought he out-starred Navarro in the film "Huddle" in which he appeared. Vezie surely collects the femininevote when it comes to moviedom's hand­some sons. 
CHARLIE GASS who was the Alexander Hamilton for the Juggler is reported to be in California. It is said that Charlie took a law degree at Stanford but we cant believe that he and FRED WAGNER (to whom we referred above) could be separated. 
We understand that L.A.RRY MOORE is still with the Fox Film Corporation in Los Angeles. Does that come under the heading of "fox­ing the boys?" .A^lright, Jim, I won't do that again!] 
FRAN CROWE is now adding in­surance to his ofTerings to the pub­lic of Sigourney, Iowa. Fran is coach-, ing the Sigourney High team and has rolled up a truly remarkable record of victories. This latest development is an upset according to BOB SCHULZE. 
BOB SCHULZE and vour sec trav­elled do«-n to TOM JORDEN'S on the Ohio river—^just across from Wheel­ing West Virginia. JORDEN is one of the main springs in the Jorden Marietta Paint Company with a chain of stores. Tom married the mys­terious "red-head" who had us all guessing back in Sorin and between them they managed to put over one of the nicest of "goofing parties" on sophisticated Bob Schulze and your unsuspecting reporter. 
BOB SCULZE had the "he-man­ner" proper on that trip and lectured three-fourths of the time on the gen­eral undesirability of having any­thing to do with girls. Then before he was able to reach his desk at the Commercial Credit Company in Peo­ria, Illinois he fell harder than even JOHN HINKEL used to fall. But Bob had precedent to go on for he was the eighth twenty-niner to fall for this product of Saint Mary's. To Winchellize, the list includes. Matt, two Bills, Arnold, Irv., Mac, Jim— and now Bob. 
Which may be why SCULZE forgot to drop us a line giving the present whereabouts of PAUL BROKAGE as he promised. The letter was to arrive "next Tuesday or Wednesday." But, oh well! Among those visited by Bob on his meanders was LEO LYNN who is doing nicely by himself and all others down at Haubstat, Indiana. 
SCHULZE and TOM JORDEN will have to bear the blame for the follow­ing information or mis-information: 
FRANCIS D. MEYER is running the Indiana Botanical Gardens is Hammond in the absence of his fath­er who is in Europe. The theme song of Schulze's stop in Hammond was "little brown keg how I love you." If interested drop around and visit MEYER. OTIS WINCHESTER is in the insurance business in Cleve­land, Ohio. JIM CUREY formerly in the canning business is reported back in Boston where they are famous for brown beans. . . JOHN W. DORGAN graduated from the Kent Law School and has made a valuable connection with a law firm in Chicago. . . SYL­VESTER J. (Doc) DAUGHERTY is working for the Weirton Steel Com­pany in Weirton, West Virginia. . . . ARTHUR W. FLEMING has com­pleted his course at the University of Chicago medical school. He was one of the members of the .Academy of Science in 1929. . . ANGELINO P. GALD.-VBINI is a junior in an accounting firm in IMilwaukee accord­
ing to latest reports. He is awaiting with interest the repeal of statutes which now hold Milwaukee back from real fame. . . WALTER V. GILDEA, 
B.S. in M. E., was last reported to be in Gibson, Ohio. . . RICHARD J. HAW is with the Western Electric people up in Chi. . . . ROBERT P. M.A.NNIX of cheer-leading fame is rapidly forging to the front as one of the leading attorneys in Green­ville, Ohio. . . If you step into a Hook Drug Store in South Bend these days you'll meet CLEMENT L. MINSKI who is one of the leading salesmen for that chain. 
ALLAN J. MOORE was last seen in the Loop in Chicago. No explana­tion accompanies this statement. . . . WALTER H. JIULFUR is a metal­urgist for the Inland Steel Corpora­tion in Indiana Harbor and is re­porteed to be doing extensive work with regard to a certain golden-haired damsel. Look out Walt. LEO 
A. REES is running a public golf course at Rome, New York, and as far as the debs of that portion of the state are concerned "all roads lead to Rome." Need more be said? 
TOMMIE RYAN deserves your sympathy. He is Eer\-ing as a tutor for a lad in Evanston. One of his duties as tutor is to drive about in a long, low Packard roadster. And this summer Ryan was literally forced to spend a couple of months abroad with his charge CHARLES W. SCHLIECKERT is 
with that famous firm of Strauss and Company in the city of Chicago. "Things are bond to be better" ... . The Upjohn Company (that always sounded like a fake name to me but it isn't folks) has JOHN CLYDE SIMONES as its Windy City rep­resentative. Think tip your own wise crack. . . The Hon. Al Capone went to his haven of rest just a bit too soon. Had he waited he might have retained JOSEPH SMIETANKA with law diploma from the Kent Law School in hand. Had he done that it would have been "Happy Days" for both Joe and Al. Joe is now prac­ticing in Chi. . . so is JOE SULLI­VAN and he is doing.it most success­fully withall. . . 
JOHN L. SULLIVAN was last heard from while attending North­western University's medical college. Over at the University of Chicago JAMES W. TOBIN signing in from Elgin, Illinois is also learning his way around the bones with a hack saw. 
Chicago social note: MATT J. CULLEN postcarded those worth­while from his usual vacation retreat up in Wisconsin. . . . OSCAR RUST burst into print during the early sum­mer months but no one seems to have saved a clipping. Lucky for you Oscar. 
Rumor has it that: 
BART McHUGH is still Pictorial Reviewing. . . . CHARLEY EIHN is with Universal Credit Corporation in Detroit. . . And we'd give a lot to see good old CHARLEY COLTON running that restaurant down in Bos­ton. . . . JOHN and BILL BROWN were back for Commencement and were the life of the party at the '29 table. Bill is in his own office at Racine we gather. 
They say that you can still get HARRY OHLBEICHT by addressing the bills to 230 Park Avenue, New York, care of McCall's Magazine. . . also that he and DON O'BRIEN are seen together. . . . that BERNIE GARBER is still on Momingside Drive. It seems as though WALTER HUGH LAYNE edits another one every time a scout comes back from New York. We wish that the boys could get straightened out on this. . . 
W. H. Edgar and Son and JAMES JI. CURRY are teaming together. Just a sugar daddy. 
WALTER GREER'S ears should have burned continuously for one week-end at least. For his name popped up every five minutes when JORDEN, SCHULZE et al got to­gether. It is believed that GREER still hibernates in the vicinity of 125th and Broadway but the boys are tough at him because of his continued silence. The secretary just can't help wondering whom he reads poetry to these nights. . . . Incidentally four phonograph records full of news of the Twenty-Niners have been rec­orded and fonvarded to Greer's last and usual place of abode. He was to lend an ear and then pass them on... TOM CANTY is still selling insur­ance. 
JOHN DOAEN and GEORGE F. COOGAN are both practicing law in Nebraska's great open spaces. Mail reaches DOAEN at the Union State Bank Building, Omaha. . . Jumping back to New York City OLIVER F. SCHELL is still with the General Motors Truck Company and resides at 611 West 111th Street. 
May we respectfully recommend to Editor James Elliott that he get an article from KAEL MARTERSECK who is now over in the U. S. S. R., showing the Russians how to utilize their vast resources. 
HENRY HASLEY has been re­elected as Grand Knight of the Fort Wayne, Indiana Council of Knights of Columbus. . . . TOM HARPER is married and still with Senator BOB PROCTOR'S law office in Elkhart . . BAEL LEECH is reported to be with the Universal Credit Corporation in Grand Eapids, Michigan. . . . which reminds me that RUSSELL KOEHL is in that same business with the Associates Investment Company of Detroit... to continue JOE TOOMEY is in with General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Chicago branch. 
BOB VOGLEWEDE tells us that JAMES DIG.AN is now managing the Logansport Radiator Equipment Com­pany. The big question about Bob these days is: "Will Virginia dare?" 
GEORGE A. BEAUTIGAN is in Chicago. . . . RICHARD E. HAUGH in Delphi, Indiana... DON J. PLUN­KET teaching at N. D. . . GEORGE MONROE in Macomb, 111. . . TOM J. GRIFFIN in Chicago LOUIE NIEZEE in Fort Wayne. 
BOB KIEBY, mortician and father of twins, is making the Indianapolis Club of Notre Dame hum this season. Bob surely is going good as president of that club and in a big manner. . . JOE KRAKER is a banking author­ity of note in Akron, Ohio. . . GENE GALDABINI is with an engineering firm in Milwaukee, Wisconsin... JOE MULHALL is managing the Mulhall-Erb Lumber Company at Owosso, Michigan. 
They say that VITO CANIZARO is a full fledged ILD., these days. Per­haps Jim Armstrong can confirm this report. (Nothing in the local crystal, Joe.) 
Someone reported that FEANK E. SIUDZINSKI is in New York on the New York Times. How about drop­ping us a line Frank with the latest news on the Notre Dame crowd down there? 
FRED WEISS, Kansas City was a visitor at the Office during the sum­mer. 
JOHN BROWN, true to his track history, is still running, this time for district attorney in Racine, Wis. John is a Democrat, and according to the Republican split there ought to stand a good chance. 
H.ARLEY McDEVITT was in the Office this summer on a vacation trip, looking like the best tints from the Conde Nast galleries. 
JOE WHALEN is with the Eppley Hotels, the Pontenelle in Omaha to be e-xact. JOHN DO.ARN is a fellow Omahan, and made a strong bid in the primanees, Joe writes, for the office of Public Defender. 
FRANK Z.APPONE writes from Lewistown, Mont., and intends to be at the U. S. C. game. 
JOHN T. ROURKE is traveling with the Proctor and Gamble com­pany. John says he has missed 99.44% of the Class, JOE DRINANE being about the only one he has seen. 
BUD McMORROW is with Cities, Service, 2323 Davidson Ave., Bronx, 
N. Y. C. 
1930 Dear Jim: 
I have tried to pick up a few notes for the ne.\t issue of the ALUMNUS and here is what I have to offer. 
Please put in something appropri­ate about PR.ANK DAILEY. All of the fellows from our class knew and liked him. I heard that a good many of the fellows managed to attend his funeral and that JOE McCABE, JOHN GOLDEN, "CHUCK" LEN­NON, and OONIE DONOVAN were pall-bearers. 
Also extend the class sympathies to MOON MULLINS on the loss of his mother. I failed to see it, but I understand it was in all of the papers. 
Some of the fellows who passed the Illinois Bar examination are: JOHN HOULIHAN, .A.USTIN BAR­LOW, TOM KERRIG.AN, ROSS CE­FALIO, R.AY DEYMALSKI, JO­SEPH GRIFFIN, the track captain of '27, and TOM PURGELL. I under­stand the last named has picked the one and only, but as yet they have not had the knot tied. 
OONIE DONOVAN, the basketball star, is practicing law in Bedford, Indiana. CHARLES LENNON and his wife were in New York for a short visit this summer. "Chuck" is in the wholesale groceries business in Joliet. We all were sorry to hear that he lost his father during the past summer. 
"RED" DOY'LE is keeping things stirring in Buffalo. 
PETE WACKS plans a trip to school before he returns to his law-studies at Boston University. 
LOUIS HASLEY attended Colum­bia's Summer School. 
STEVE NOLAN now holds a posi­tion with the Irish Free State Con­sulate Service. See him at the Chrysler Bldg. 
JOE LORDI, the hard hitting star of the N. Y. A. C. nine, sells the products of the Meenan Coal Co., Inc. 
BILL KNAPP has returned after a short visit here to his w^ork in the legal department of the Erie Rail­road in Cleveland. 
GEORGE WINKLER is engaged to Miss Madeline Corrigan of Bays-water, Long Island. The ceremony may be held this Fall. 
VIC HART, '29, graduated from Harvard Business School last June and has been located with the C. S. Stephenson Co. of New Y'ork since then. 
JIM FRIEL is with the Mead, Johnson & Co. here. 
JOHN LAW has been keeping in the limelight since he became a can­didate on the Democratic ticket for the Assembly from the fifth West-Chester district. His coaching activ­ities at Sing-Sing have started the papers after him again and now they are even writing editorials about him. John feeds his family on the salary he draws as renting agent for Rockefeller Center. 
DAN HALPIN, DAN CANNON, JOE ABBOTT, JOHN COLRICK, and HOWIE SMITH are the promoters of the Eastern League of Professional Football Clubs. This new pro-grid league is creating a lot of interest in New York and its suburbs and organ­izers promise some real football en­tertainment. 
Last Saturday Dan Halpin took his Universal Pictures baseball team, in­cluding Albie Booth, up to Sing-Sing for a game. Dan Cannon called the balls and strikes while John Colrick made the decisions on the bases. 
This is all the news I can gather at present. I hope you have some to put with this. 
Sincerely, 
Bernie Conroy. WILLIAM ENGELS, who has been teaching, in the College of Science, sailed for Germany on the S. S. Bre­men Sept. 15th and will study at the 
U. of Munich. The Alumni Office got nice letters from LEO LOVE who is at Columbia, and BILL HANNON who is traveling for Standard Brands out of Worces­ter, Mass. JACK ELDER has been getting a flock of publicity as director of ath­
letics for the Catholic Youth organi­zation in Chicago, which just dedi­cated a fine new headquarters. Jack had a football school with lots of 

N. D. talent in September. JOE DRINANE writes from a road job in Marshall's Creek, Pa. He had seen CHRIS SHULL and e.\pected to see BILL GORMAN. ED YORKE writes that he is still following up a medical course at Cor­nell. PAT GOGGIN wrote this summer just after his appointment to a job with the Illinois State Highways. 
Pat was at home in Areola. Another road expert, the illustrious 
T. VINCENT McINTYRE, wrote from Zanesville, Ohio. Vince is buy­ing the furniture. 
1931 

FRANK LEAHY is in East Lan­sing helping Jimmy Crowley pep up the 'Michigan State team. 93-0 was their score in the opening game with Alma. 
JACK CHEVIGNY'S Chicago Car­dinals of the pro football league have been showing opponents the N. D. system with a wallop. TIM MOYNI­HAN is playing center for Chev. 
NICK BOHLING dropped a lino from Henry C. Lytton and Sons, Chi­cago, where the old financial wizard of the K. of C'c is trying it out on the Hub's red ink clients. 
RAMON SMITH is in Tucson, Ariz, with the Puritas products company. 
JOHNNY ZABACK has completed a course at the Cincinnati College of Embalming and is practicing that sunny pastime at the Zaback Funeral Home, Ashtabula, Ohio. 
1932 

Your postcard came the other day and was a pleasant reminder that I'd soon be back at Notre Dame, for the last lap. I have a little news for your ALUMNUS and I do hope it gets in the regular issue and saves you the trouble of sending out a special letter. 
Classmates, at the very beginning I wish to take this opportunity and the liberty of extending the sincerest condolences of the class to GEORGE HIGGINS who suffered the loss of his mother during the summer. Accept these George, and remember there's a bunch of fellows who are continual­ly wishing you well. 
I hear JOE ICENNEDY and PAUL HOST had a fine time at summer school. Here's hoping Paul has a na­tional championship team this fall. Paul has worked hard for three years and deserves every bit of glory that comes his way. MARCHY SCHWARTZ, TOM YARR and NOR­DY HOFFMANN will be amon? those helping Paul to get to the top this fall. Good luck to you all. 
All summer your correspondent was working in a law office. Dean please note, and in his many trips to the wilds of Brooklyn he encountered several N. D. fellows. Borough Hall Brooklyn was not dissimilar to Col­fax and Michigan on one particular day when yours truly met LEO MC­LAUGHLIN who is working for his father's old law firm. He intends lo enter Fordham Law School in the fall. BILL DARROW was the next one I met and he is also going to Fordham Law School along with JACK RUDD who spent a portion of the summer in Buffalo. WALTER DONNELLY, Class of '29, is a full-fledged lawyer and is doing well. Quite often I run into JOE MOR­REL, Class of '29. He will be ad­mitted soon. 
From the sunny south comes news from the only co-ed who ever at­tended Notre Dame, our classmate, FLORENCE McCARTHY. Our dis­tinguished vice - president has done nothing all summer but who would in that climate? GENE CONNELLY, has been working nearly all summer and will enter M. I. T. this fall and work for his master's degree. 
AL DOYLE, (Abraham Lincoln) came east this summer and had cause enough with him to take JOHN LED­DY back with him. JOHN LEDDY will take the bar exam this fall. Good luck, John. NEIL HURLEY pub­lished the "Livingston News." Neil was editor of the Scholastic. BILL KIRBY informed me in a letter this morning that he will be back at school this fall. I'll sure be glad to see the bovs that are left. BUDD DYNIEWICZ is trying for a proba­tion officer's job in Chicago. Can't you see him bawling out kids for plaving hookey? No matter what he does it'll be good. JIM O'SHAUGH­NESSY and HACK WILSON are go­ing to continue law at Kent. JOHN JIULHERN, the grand old man, was numning gas all summer. Way up in Baraboo, ANDY McGUAN was worlc­ing on a golf course. I'll bet IKE TERRY was the one who made work for Andy. ED MELCHIONE ha.s spent a leisurely summer and will go to Northwestern law school. GED­DES, OELERICH and BALDWIN were near each other during the sum­mer up in Wisconsin. GEDDES is working for a LaSalle St. broker and PAUL O'TOOLE is sellinc insurance. BERNIE LEAHY will play pro­fessional footbal l with Chicago. STUMPY CRONIN was in Florida with JOE FOLEY and VINCE WHE­LAN. Stumpy was to play rugby in Winnipeg, Canada. 
Thanks, fellows, for this job. I like it. I'll be at Notre Dame this fall and I'll be glad to hear from each and every one of you. 
Herb Giorgio. 

ALEX WILSON, great Olympic star, will coach track at Loyola in Chicago. 
BILL SLADBR, 14 Groton St., Forest Hills, L. I., dropped in a ver­dant and welcome letter. 
ED MEHREN wrote a most inter­esting letter. Ed is established at Rancho Santa Maria, Peoria, Arizona, planning on grape fruit and date palms in commercial measure during the next few years. He and GEORGE 
B. RYAN drove from Chicago to El Paso. George was in a serious acci­dent there, escaping by virtue of be­ing in the rumble seat. Two people inside the car were killed instantly. George is in the law school at South-em California. Ed was looking for news of TOM DUFFY who was also headed generally for citrus ranching in the Southwest. 
Prof. Kervick brings word that PAUL FLANAGAN and FRANK KELLY of the '32 architects, are at Harvard for graduate work. 
Are You Game To Try It? 
CAPABLE MEN OF CHARACTER, out of position, or in position and wishing to change, may find a place for them­selves in life insurance— if they possess the indus­try and patience to build up a permanent clientele. 
The capital required is 
the will to work and he content with moderate re­turns at the start, being assured as the years go on of a substantial and 
increasing permanent in­come. If you, are game to try-
it, write John Hancock Inquiry Bureau, 197 Clar­endon Street, Boston, Massachusetts. 
A mutual dividend-paying company, 70 years in business. Among the strongest in re­serves and assets. Paid policy­holders in 1931 over 87 million dollars. Offers every phase of personal and family protec­tion, including the insuring of a college education; also An­nuities and the Group forms for firms and corporations. 
A. c. 10-32 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1932 
LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Glen Smith. '27. 104 Oakdalc Ave.. Akron. President: C. J. McGuckin. '28. Medina Road, Akron. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARIZONA— 
.James D. Barr>*. '97. 82 \V. Pennington St.. Tucson. President: Steve Rebeil. '25. 620 N. Sixth St.. Tucson. Sccrctarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS— Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassner. '1-1. Hope. President: Burt L. Roberts, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C.. '02. Dac­ca. President: Rev. J. J. Henessey, C.S.C., Dacca, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON — Charles Crowlej-. '21, 40 Jlill St.. Dor­chester. Mass. President: James R. Doo­ley, '22, 363 Main St., North Andover, Mass., Secretary. 
NOTRE DiVME CLUB OF BRIDGEPORT —John M. Murphy, '27, SG Liberty St., Bridgeport, Conn, (temporary chairman). 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO— Martin Ryan. '28. 21 Orchard Place. Buf­falo. President: C. J. Invin. Jr., '20. 325 Washington St.. Buffalo, Sccretarj'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CALU­MET DISTRICT—William L. Voss. Jr.. '2.1. 15521 Vine Ave.. Har\-ey. 111.. Presi­dent: William I!. Doolcy. '26. 245 Lawn-dale Ave., Hammond, Ind.. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CAPITOL DISTRICT—John J. Meighan. President: 
F. L. Duquette. '28. 1074 Glcnwood Blvd.. Schenectady. N. Y.. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO — James Ronan. '26. 4306 W. North Ave., Chicago, President: Robert D. Stephen. '27, 5906 N. Hermitage St.. Chicago. Sec. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI —E. C. McHugh. '09. P. O. Box 429. President: W. D. Morrissey. '26. Cath­olic Charities Bureau, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND —^Thomas F. Byrne. '28. 750 Huron Rd.. President: Clayton G. Lcroux. 3356 Daleford Road. Heights Branch. Cleve­land. Sscretaray. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CON­NECTICUT VALLEY—William J. Gran­lield. '13. State Bldg.. 1200 Main Street. Springfield. Mass.. President: James A. Curry. '14, 647 Main St., Hartford, Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF DAYTON — Robert Ohmer, Dayton, President: An­drew A. Aman. Jr.. '30. 210 Lexington Ave., Dayton, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVBHl-David Hickey, '28, 1616 Grant St., Presi­dent: O. L. Hough, '27, 157S Race St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES —Earl Walsh. '22. Des Moines Catholic College, President: Charles II. Lynch, '28. 1429 - 13th St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT-John E. Moore. '08, Third Floor, General Motors Bldg.. Detroit. Mich.. President: Paul J. Dooley, '25, 148 Pallister, Detroit, Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Dr. J. A. Flynn. El. "12, 151J E. L Ave, N. W., Washington, President: James D. Hayes, 6115 Eighth St., N. W., Washington. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE. PA.— Richard D. Daley. '17, Erie Daily Times, President: Thomas Barber, '24, 416 Newman St,, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAY'NE —Frank J. Gilmartin, '01. 336 W. Wool-and Ave.. President: Robert Eggeman. 
•30, Old First Bank Bldg.. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY —Harold L. Londo. '24. City Engineers' Office. City H.tll. Green Baj-, Wis.. Presi­dent : Levi A. Geniesse. '24. 510 Minahan Bldg.. Green Bay. Wis., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAP­IDS. MICH.—George E. Ludwig, '25, 328 Glcnhaven Ave., N. W., President: Ray­mond J. Bonini. '27. 2460 Oakwood Dr.. 
S. E.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAMILTON. OHIO—M. O. Bums, '86, 338 S. Second SL. President: Marc A. Fichrcr, '27, 701 Rentschler Bldg., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAWATHA­LAND—Norman Bartholomew. '15. 225 Cleveland Ave.. Iron Mountain. Qlich.. President: Michael S. Corrj-. '27. 837 Terrace Ave.. Marinette. Wis., Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON— 
M. E. Walter, '14, 1702 Stuart Ave.. Houston. Te.>:as. President: T. F. Green. Jr.. '27. 407 Sterling Bldg., Houston, Texas, Sccretar5--Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAP­OLIS—Robert Kirby. '29. 1901 N. Merid­ian. Indianapolis. President: John T. Rocap. '30. Fidelity Trust Bldg.. In­dianapolis, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET—Wil­liam Bossingham. '25. 408 Bucll St.. Joliet. m.. President: Ed King. 301 Ruby St.. Joliet, Secretary. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF KANSAS CITY —Daniel F. Foley. '23. 25 Wint Ave.. Ft. Leavenworth. Kansas. President: John JL Dugan. '27. 4427 Tracy St., Kansas City, Mo., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS—Al­bert J. Gebert. '30. U. of Kansas. Wich­ita. President: Dan Wclchons. '30. 306 
E. 13th St., Hutchinson, Kansas, Sac'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KENTUCKY— Frank B. Bloemer. Jr.. 126 E. Jefferson. Louisville. President: H. R. Dcmpf, '23, 400 M. E. Taylor Bldg.. Louisville. Sec 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANE COUNTY —William B. Chawgo. '31. Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co.. 303 Graham Bldg., Aurora, III., Secretary pro tem. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOS ANGELES —John W. Waddun. '07. 7107 Sunset Blvd.. President: Laurence A. Moore, '29, 1465 W. 50th St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUISIANA­MISSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke. '88, 307 Camp St.. New Orleans, President: Cyp­rian A. Sporl, Jr.. '28, Whitney-Central Bldg., New Orleans, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA—Al­fonso Zobel, '24, c/o Ayala & Cia, 21 Calle Juan Luna, Manila, President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS— Hugh Magevney, Jr., 1878 Union Ave., President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE —William J. Redden. '14. 3525 W. North Ave.. Milwaukee, President: A. P. Galda­bini. 1521 W. Kilboum Ave., Mihvaukeo. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MONTANA— Hon. Albert J. Galen. '96. 435 Clark St.. Helena, President: James B. O'Flynn, '11, Great Falls, Mont., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NASHVILLE —Robert P. Williams. Jr.. '29. 106 Gal­latin Rd.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEBRASKA— Gerald J. Barret. '22, 315 S. 37th St., Omaha, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JERSEY' William Carter. '27. 68 Fourth St.. South Orange. N. J.. President: Joseph Nulty, '27. 1056 Arlington Ave.. Plainfield. N. J.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK—John E. Kenney. '21. care Foster Wheeler Corp., 165 Broadway, New York City, President: J. Norbert Gclson, '26, 1201 Troy Ave.. Brooklyn. 
N. Y., Secretarj'. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA —John S. Mclnnes. '22. 1855 Sacramento Street. San Francisco, President: Mark Krcutzer, '24, 311 Cali­fornia St., San Francisco, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREGON—Gen­eral J. P. O'Neil. '83. Army Recruiting Station. Second and Washington Sts.. Portland. President: L. Bernard Macnab, '25, Terminal Sales Bldg., Portland, Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO—R.ij-mond J. Eichcnlaub. '15. Hoster Realtj- Bldg.. Columbus, Presi­dent. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA— Thomas F. Shea, o. s., '09, 902 Ex­change Natl. Bank, Tulsa, President; Leo A. Schumacher. '13. King Wood Oil Co.. Okmulgee, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS—Hold­ers of Permanent Seats: Louis P. Harl, 
•16, Paris Office, N. Y. Herald. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADEL­PHIA—Qarence J. James, o. s. '15. 712 Widener Bldg.. President: Harry H. Francis. Jr.. '30. 15 Spring Ave., Ard­more. Pa., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PEORIA. ILU —Dr. Joseph F. Duane, '99, 418 Jeffer­son Bldg.. President: John A. Nopi)en­berger, 223 Heading Ave.. S?cretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER —Thom.is Ashe. '31. 226 Glen Ellj-n Way, Rochester, President: Raj-mond D. Downs, '26, 46 ainton Ave.. S.. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Sher\vood Dixon. '20. 120 E. First St. DLxon, HI.. President: J. Wil­lard Jones. '25. 122 Crawford Ave.. Dixon, 111., Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JO­SEPH VALLEY—Edward J. Meehan. '20. South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Ind., President: Timothy Benitz, '31,1341 
E. Waj-ne, N., South Bend, Ind., Sec'j-. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS— Leo Sutliffe, '24, 2701 So. Grand. Presi­dent: Robert Hellrung. '30, 7214 North-moor Drive, University City, Mo., Secy. 
(Continued on next page) 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Local A lumni Clubs 
(Continued) 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SIOUX CITY— Vincent F. Harrinston. '25, Continental Mortgage Co., President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK—Jacob 
E. Eckel, '16, 121 Erie St., Syracuse, President: Frederick T. DeLany, '30, 200 Onondaera Ave., Syracuse, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SOUTHWEST­ERN TEXAS—Harold Tynan, '27. 240 
E. Huisacke Ave., San Antonio, Taxne, President: Kirwin J. Williams. '28. 105 
E. Rosewood, San Antonio, Secrctao'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN, OHIO —C. J. Schmidt. '11. 260 Mclmore St.. President: Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF TOLEDO— John P. Hurley, '25. 1120 Colling-wood Ave., Toledo. President: Fred A. Sprengcr, 3129 Kimball Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE TRI­CITIES—Richard B. Swift. '20, Kohl Bids.. Davenport, la.. President: Henry 
M. McCuIlough, '20, 26 McCuIlough Bids-Davenport, la.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE CI­TIES—Allen H. JIahnr, '28. 53 Arch St.. Johnson City. New York. President: John D. O'Loughlin. "o.s.. 2-1. 506-7 People's Trust Company Bldg.. Bing­hamton, N. Y.. Secretary. 
TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— Leon Moes. *26. 1230 W. Minnehaha Parkway, Minneapolis, Minn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTAH—Ray­mond R. Brady. '24, 206 Kearns Bldg.. Salt Lake City. President: Cyril Har­becke. '19, 64 F. St., Salt Lake City, Sec. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF THE WABASH VALLEY'—Noble Kizer, '25, Purdue Uni­versity. Lafayette. Ind.. President: Peter Vogt. Secretary-'Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA — Leo R. Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem, Pa., Temporary Chair­man : Charles B. McDermott, '27. Allen­town, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA —Jjuncs S. Devlin. 
•10. 7741 Forbes St.. Pittsburgh. Presi­dent: John B. Reardon. '22. 715 Union Bank Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN WASHINGTON—Dr. Clarence Shannon, 
O.3. '02: Stimson Bids:., Seattle, Wash., President: E. Morris Starrett. '14-'21. El. '23. 801 Washington St., Port Town­send, Wash.. Secrctarj'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY —George A. GalTney, '9S-'99, 54 Park PI.. Waterbury, Conn.. President: James 
M. Monaghan. '27. 44 Ayer St.. Water-bur>-. Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WHEELING. 
W. VA.—Thomas F. Howley. '11. Citi­zens-Peoples Trust Co.. Wheeling. Presi­dent: George Sargus. '28. 2111 Belmont, Bellaire. Ohio. Secretary. 
THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME—Sister M. Agnes Alma. O. P.. Mt. St. Mar>'-on-theiHudson. Newburgh. New York. President: Miss Rose Stef­faniak. 161 Walnut St.. Coldwater. Mich.. Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGS-TOWN—John J. Kane. Jr.. '25. 1018 First National Bank. President: Norman Smith, '24, 126 Roslyn Dr., Secretary. 

List of Class Secretaries 
Year A''a»ic Address Before 1880 Hon. Thos. F. Gallagher Fitchburg, Alass. 
1880-85  Prof. Robert M. Anderson Circleville. Ohio  
1886  Michael O. Bums  338 S. Second St.. Hamilton. Ohio  
1887  Hon. Warren A. Cartier  Ludington. Michigan  
1SS8  John L. Heineman  Connersville. Indiana  
1SS9  P. E. Burke  :!01 Camp St.. New Orleans. La.  
1890-93  Louis P. Chute  7 University Ave.. Minneapolis, Minnesota  
1894  Hugh A. O'Donnell  The New Y'ork Times, New York City  
1895  Eustace Cullinan, Sr.  860 Phelan Bids., San Francisco, Calif.  
1896  William P. Bums  327 Willard Ave.. Michigan City, Indiana  
1897  Rev. John MacNamarn  St. Joseph's Sanitarium. Mt. Clemens. Mich, (temporary)  
1S98  Wm. C. KcKlcr  9th and Sycamore Sts.. Cincinnati, Ohio.  
1890  Dr. Joseph F. Duane  418 Jefferson Bldg.. Peoria. Illinois  
1900  John W. Eggcman  1201. First National Bank Bldg., Fort Wayne, Ind.  
1901  Joseph J. Sullivan  1300. 139 N. Clark St, Chicago, Illinois  
1902  C. C. Mitchell  110 S. Dearborn St.. Box 3. Chicago. 111.  
1903  Francis P. Burke  904 Trust Company Bldg.. Milwaukee, Wisconsin  
1904  Robert Proctor  Monger Bldg.. Elkhart. Indiana  
1905  Daniel J. O'Connor  10 S. LaSalle St.. Chicago. Illinois  
1906  Thomas A. Lally  811-13 Paulsen Bldg.. Spokane, Washington  
1907  T. Paul McGannon  Bar Bldg.. 36 W. 44th St.. New York City  
1908  Frank X. Cull  Buckley Bldg.. Cleveland. Ohio  
1909  E. P. Cleary  P. O. Box 356, Momence, Illinois  
1910  Rev. Jl. L. Moriarty  527 Bcall Ave.. Wooster, Ohio  
1911  Fred L. Steers  1635 First National Bank Bldg., Chicago, Illinois  
1912  Benjamin J. Kaiser  324 Fourth St., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania  
1913  James R. Devitt  921 Engineers Bldg., Cleveland. Ohio  
1914  Frank H. Hayes  1055 Granville Ave., Chicago, Illinois  
1915  James E. Sanford  1033 S. Linden Ave., Highland Park, III.  
1916  Timothy P. Galvin  70S First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Indiana  
1917  John U. Riley  Box 86. Cohasset. Mass.  
1918  John A. Lemmor  1110-8th Ave.. S.. Escanaba, Michigan  
1919  Clarence Bader  650 Pierce St.. Gary, Indiana  
1920  Leo B. Ward  1012 Black Bldg.. Los Angeles. California  
1921  Alden J. Cusick  1 P.ark Ave.. New York City  
1922  Gerald Ashe  1024 Monroe Ave., Rochester, New York  
1923  Paul Castncr  2702 Miami St., South Bend, Indiana  
1924  James F. Hayes  Fifth Avenue Ass'n. Empire State Bldg., N. Y. City  
1923  John W. Scollan  Pullman Co.. 79 E. Adams St., Chicago, HI.  
1926  Dr. Gerald W. Hayes  38 N. 12th St.. Newark, New Jersey  
1927  Edmund DeClercQ  8126 Drexel Blvd.. Chicago. Illinois  
1928  Louis Buckley  718 E. Corby St., South Bend. Indiana  
1929  Joseph AIcNamara  231 Wisconsin St.. Indianapolis, Indiana  
1930  Bernard W. Conroy  1055 Park Ave., New York City  
1931  John E. Boland  3624 Chestnut St.. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  
1932  Herbert Giorgio  Notre Dame. Indiana.  

District Governors 
District  Name  A<idrcss  
I  Fi-ank E. Hering  Dean Bldg.. South Bend. Ind.  
II  John W. Costello  57 E. 21st St.. Chicago. III.  
III  John P. Murphy  Terminal Tower. Cleveland. Ohio.  
IV  William J. Reilden  3525 West North Ave.. Milwaukee. Wis.  
V  Don P. O'Kcofe  Chev. Motor Co.. General Victors Bldg., Detroit,  Mich.  
VI  John H. Neeson  City Hall Annex. Philadelphi.i, Pa.  
VII  Ambrose O'Connell  1600 Broadway. New York City.  
VIII  Gerald A. Ashe  1024 Monroe Ave.. Rochester. New Y'ork.  
IX  Hon. Wm. J. Granfield  1200 Main St.. Springfield. Mass.  
X  Hilton Goodwyn  2110 East Grace St.. Richmond. Va.  
XI  Harry Mehre  University of Georgia. Athens. Ga.  
XII  W. N. Bosler  1001 Heyburn Bldg., Louisville. Ky.  
XIII  Twomey Clifford  Camden. Arkansas  
XIV  Arthur T. Simpson  208 Southwestern Life Bldg.. Dallas. Texas.  
XV  John L. Corley  4463 Lindell. St. Louis, Missouri.  
XVI  Walter Duncan  658 First St.. La S.ille. III.  
XVII  Hon. Albert .T. Galen  433 Clark St.. Helena. Mont.  
XVIII  Raymond M. Humphreys  1423 Race St.. Denver, (ijlo.  
XIX  Terence B. Cosg:ove  Los Angeles Athletic Club. Los Angeles. Calif.  
XX  Dr. J. M. Toner  3197 Sixteenth St.. San Francisco.. Calif.  
XXI  Emmett Lcnihan  County-City Bldg.. Seattle, Wash.  
XXII  C. C. Fitzgerald  La Metropolitana. 242, Havana. Cuba.  

vurem/maiyi^ fj^eyre/ 
J.FYOUR cigarette is mild—that is, not strong, not bitter, but smokes cool and smooth—then you like it. 
K yoiu- cigarette tastes right; if it tastes better— that is, not oversweet; and if it Las a pleasing aroma — then you enjoy it the more. 
Everything kno^vn to Science is used to make Chesterfield Cigarettes milder and taste better. The right kinds of leaf tobacco—American and Turkish —are blended and cross-blended. That's why "They Satisfy." 



