The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
IN THIS ISSUE 

Rockne Memorial Under Wa' Old-Timers' Reunion University Affairs President's Page Spotlight Alumni Football Review 
Campus News Club News Class News 

Across the Quadransle from Dillon Hall 
fol. 16 December, 1937- January, 1938 No. 3 
The Notre Dame 

DRINKING 

GLASS 
$2.65 a Dozen 

A LUMNI who have been seeking something with a distinctive Notre Dame touch for their home will find the answer here. 
The eight-ounce drinking glass, with the seal of the University in blue and gold on the side, is the first thing of its kind to be authorized by the University. 
The glass will be marketed through the office of the Comptroller of the Univer­sity, Mr. Frank W. Lloyd. 
Any profits deriving from the sale of the glasses rvill be administered by Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., '11, president of the University, in the form of student relief funds. 
Alumni who have been wondering what to give those friends of Notre Dame, and personal friends, have the answer. And you wives of alumni, who read the ALUMNUS carefully so that your husband depends on you for the news in it, here's a gift for him. 
The glasses make excellent, practical year round items for your own home, or remembrances for the homes of others. 
(They would also add greatly to the office equipment of you fellows who have vour own offices.) 

Only $2.65 a Dozen 
(Including shipping costs.) 

Address: COMPTROLLER'S OFFICE, Notre Dame, Indiana 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, 73 The majmzine is published from October to June inclusive by the Alumni Association Member of the American 
of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, India^io. The subscription price is 92.00 
EJUor Alumni Council. 
a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of 95.00 include 
WlLUAM R. DOOLEY, "26 a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, Member of Nat1. Catholic 
Managing Editor 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Alumni Federation 
Vol. 16 DECEMBER. 1937 - JANUARY, 1938 No. 3 
Ground Broken for Rockne Memorial 
Byron Kanalcy Turns First Dirt; Rockne Family Pres­ent; Fund Still Short of Necessary Minimum; Univer­sity Will Ask Cooperation in Completing Project 
In June, 1931, after mature consid­eration, the University of Notre Dame announced a one million dollar public solicitation to erect on the campus at Notre Dame a field house to perpetuate, insofar as man can, the memory and the work of Knute 
K. Rockne, '13, director of athletics, dead since March 31, 1931, when the plane on which he was a passenger crashed near Bazaar, Kansas. 
Despite the interest and advice of nationally known leaders, despite the work of a long-established fund-rais­ing agency, and despite the efforts of the University and the Alumni Asso­ciation, in June, 1932, Rev. Charles 
L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, then president of the University, made the following statement: 
"Briefly, then, we fell far short of our objective ($1,000,000.) The chief reason for this, but not the only reason, was, of course, the condition of the times. Alumni participation was relatively meager. I say this not by way of reproach: I am simply telling the story. Ten per cent of the alumni, or 409 members, are repre­sented by subscriptions, pledging a total of §20,800, an average of $50 per contributor. . . 
"Looking over this whole situation, I find myself recalling that only little more than ten years have passed since the General Endowment Drive for a million dollars. Five years were allowed for the payment of those pledges. Following this, an Alumni Fund for a Lay Faculty Foundation Prize was started. Then, four years ago, the partial financing of the Sta­dium through the sale of boxes was undertaken. Two years ago the Liv­ing Endo\vment was established. So that for the past 12 years, fund­raising in one way or another has siderable Alumni interest and a great deal of devoted, hard work on the part of some Notre Dame men. But the country was and is demoralized. Accordingly, we are discontinuing any further formal activity at this time. Later, we shall return to it 
•with the hope of better success. We shall probably have to modify our plans as to the scope of the Memorial, but not as to its character. The idea, we believe, is fundamentally sound, the project practical, and spirit back of it inspiring. . ." 
So we have returned to it. 
November 6, Byron Kanaley, chair­man of the Board of Lay Trustees, a lifelong friend of Knute Rockne, dug the first spadeful of dirt on the site 
of the Rockne Memorial, at the west-em end of the new plaza, just south of Lyons HalL Present, in addition to the students, administrative offi­cers, and many visitors, were Mrs. Bonnie Rockne, Knute Rockne, Jr., a freshman at Notre Dame this year, Mary Jeanne, a student at St. Mary's College, and Jack Rockne, a younger son of the famous father. Founda­tions work will be completed this Fall. Work on the superstructure will begin in the Spring. Carroll and Dean (Maurice Carroll, '19), Kansas City, and Maginnis and Walsh, Boston, are the - architects for the present plans. 
As you know, the University prom­ised the site for the Memorial. And the University bore the considerable 
been practically continuous, an d Alumni participation in these pro­Present in the foreground as Byron Kanaley turned the first spadeful of dirt jects has been satisfactory. Even in for the Rockne Memorial were, left to right. Rev. John F. O'Hara, CS.C, Knute the Rockne Memorial there was con­Rochie, Jack Rockne, Mr. Kanaley, Jeanne Rockne and Mrs. Bonnie Rockne. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus December - January 
expense of the organized campaign. All of the money that was contrib­uted—some $135,000—remained in the fund, and now amounts to $150,000. To this, the University has gener-• ously added another $200,000 so that construction on the major units of the Memorial might be begun. 
Plans have been modified, so that, while nothing essential to the dignity and fundamental purposes of the or­iginal is lost, total cost will exceed little more than half a million. 
There remains then, to be raised through friendly channels — if the Memorial is to represent what it is intended to represent, and if the Uni­versity is to be spared additional bur­den and an embarrassment of its balanced progress—some $150,000. 
No campaign of a public nature will be utilized. But among the many friends of Knnte Eockne and Notre Dame, and among the alumni, there must be many now who can fulfil the wish to participate which conditions-in 1931 did not permit. 
Only 409 alumni contributed to the Eockne Memorial campaign. 
Today there are 17,201 active ad­dresses of graduate and non—gradu­ate aliunni of the University on file in the Alumni OiUce. If the average gift of those loyal 409 were to be maintained from this list, think of the result—$873,600, more than five times what is being asked! 
Officers of the Association, through the Board of Directors and through the District Governors and the Local Club officers, are working now on a plan which will provide an easy and appropriate channel through which the great majoritj' of alumni, not yet represented in this tribute to Kock, can achieve participation. 
The Field House, one of Kock's o\vn objectives when he lived and worked for the broadening of opportunities for physical development among all the students, will carry this practical realization of his own dreams in its facilities for the students, and will carry in the beauty and dignity of its architecture the memorial honors so richly deserved. 
Alumni who have not completed their pledges to the original fund, can facilitate the work of the Mem­orial Association by doing this as soon as convenient. Balances of such pledges may be determined through 
J. Arthur Haley, '26, Box 7i, Notre Dame, Ind., treasurer of the fund. 
Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, presi­dent of the University has appointed an executive committee at the Uni­versity, headed by Eev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, vice-president of the University; Elmer F. Layden, '25, director of athletics; Frank W. Lloyd, comptroller; J. Arthur Haley, '26, business manager of athletics; James 
E. Armstrong, '25, alwnni secretary. This committee has general super-


a iHerr? Cftristmasi I 
And a happy New Year. The ^ Alumni Office takes this oppor-5 tunity to extend the best wishes 3 of the personnel to the member-a ship. Also, as you know, the Uni-S varsity, expressing itself through' 5 this sole medium of imiversal 9 

g alumni contact, \vishes you the 'S. 
•|r sincere best wishes for' Christmas 2 S and the New Year in the signi-g »• ficance of both that you learned S S as students on the campus. .5 
% I 
vision of the raising of additional funds for the Memorial, particularly-the work of conferring privately with friends and possible benefactors of the Universitj'. 
The alumni plan ^^•ill be entirely separate from any other, to avoid duplication of solicitation, and will in all probability, from present indica­tions, work through the District Gov­ernors and the Local Alumni Clubs. 
An advisory committee of business and professional men of South Bend, headed by Ernest M. Morris, '06, head of the Associates Investment Co., has been enlisted in mapping a program for completing the neces­sary funds for the Memorial. 
You may remember these words from the sermon of the poet-president at the Eockne fimeral: 
"It is fitting that he should be brought here to his beloved Notre Dame and that his body should rest a little while in this church where the light of Faith broke upon his happy soul, where the waters of Bap­tism were poured on his brow, where he made his first confession, received his first Holy Communion, and was confirmed fay the same consecrated hand that today is raised in blessing above his coffin. He might have gone to any University in the land and been gladly received and forever cher­ished there. But he chose Our Lady's school, Notre Dame. He honored her in his life as a student, he honored her in the monogram he earned and wore, he honored her in the principles he inculcated and the ideals he set up in the lives of the young men un­der his care. He was her own true son. . . ." 
That is why Notre Dame returns to the Eockne Memorial. 
TH E ALUMNUS proudly presents three generations of a distinguished Notre Dame family: Dr. John B. Berteling, B.S., '80, M.S., '84, AM„ '89, for many years a leading physician of SouOi Bend; his son, John F. Berteling, C.E., '08, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; and his grand' son, John B. Berteling, now a senior in the Department of Chemical Engineering at Notre Dame. 
December - January The Notre Dame Alumnus 71 


THE PRESIDENTS PAGE Bvwfo.ECo«er 13 
WHY GIVE TO NOTRE DAME? 
During the coming months, the 1937-38 officers of the Alumni Asso­ciation hope to do one great, con­structive piece of work toward the continuation of Notre Dame progress. That is, to show alumni why Notre Dame deserves support, and alumni support in particular. 
The Nieuwland Memorial and the Rockne Memorial, two million-dollar projects, occupy your attention cur­rently. Both are possessed of almost self-e\'ident merit. 
There will be other appeals in the near future, as inevitable and as pressing, and as deserving as these. 
Does this mean that the alumni are to be milked? Does it mean that the Alumni Association is to become merely a nation-OTde cash register? 
Of course not. It means that Notre Dame men, yes, and that wider group of synthetic alumni who carry their blue and gold banners, have been clipping a lot of coupons from bonds which they only own in part. 
NOTRE DAME OBLIGATIONS 
It is easy to deceive yourself— such has been the modesty of Notre Dame culture—that when you paid your tuition, that when you paid your alumni dues, that when you paid for your football tickets, you had dis­charged your obligations in full. 
It has been easy to deceive your­self, from the constant evidence of progress, that Notre Dame is self-sufficient. 
One article will not serve to set aright these misconceptions. They are held by men who are not strang­ers to Notre Dame, as well as by those who are. Some of us who have been closest to the Dome have failed to realize the nature of its support­ing structure. 
Broadly, let us consider som e major facts. In subseauent articles we shall try to develop the outstand­ing ones for you, and for the friends ' of Notre Dame whom you must enlist in the perpetuation of Notre Dame 
progress and ideals. 
1. The student does not pay, in any school, the actual cost of his edu­cation. 
. Taxes, endowments, and — in the case of the Catholic schools — the unremunerated services of religious teacher.s, supplement tuition costs. This deficit varies, but in a careful survey in a private school similar to Notre Dame, the student paid less than two-thirds of the per capita cost. 
2.
 Notre Dame has grown, in 95 years, from a $400 log chapel begin­ning, into a $12,000,000 University, impressive in plant, in achievement, and in personnel. 

3.
 Notre Dame's endowment of a little more than one million dollars in money, competes with such giants in the academic w^orld as Harvard with $135,000,000, Yale with $104,­000,000, and on down the scale by slowly diminishing amounts which dwarf Notre Dame's resources. 

4.
 Notre Dame's record of prog­ress during the depression, not only locally where it assumed most of the burden of building progress in the St. Joseph Valley, but nationally as well, stands out as a highlight of courage, and of constructive activity. Notre Dame ha s spen t approximately $5,000,000 during this period. 


STUDENT COSTS DOWN 
5.
 Notre Dame has kept student costs down, so that with all the prog­ress and \vith all the increase of stu­dent facilities, it is still possible for a student to enjoy a Notre Dame edu­cation at a comprehensive figure little more than that of the state-supported school or schools of lower rating. 

6.
 Notre Dame has remained the true Alma Mater, the nourishing mother, to her alumni. Commence­ments, the ALuaiNUS, transient alum­ni, small groups returning for special reunions, have found the rich depths of a pei'scnal hospitality and a genu­


PLACEMENT 

Opportunities have come in recent­ly in advertising sales; insurance; a '37 jewelry sales representative; sales position requiring some architectural ability. 
A number of good Notre Dame men are also rather regularly on hand. If those of you who have open­ings at your disposal will notify the Alumni Office, we can frequently aid in securing an alumnus with results that are mutually satisfactory. 
N. D. WRITERS GROUP 

Notre Dame in print. . . the grow­ing ranks of alumni authors and m'-'sonper men have received two boosts in New York recently. 
One is an organization of this group, of which Hugh A. O'Donnell, '97, is honorary president; Harry A. McGuire, '25, president; and John Nanovic, '30, secretary-treasurer. The group meets on the first and third Thursdays of each month, alternat­ing a luncheon and dinner meeting. 
The Modem Group, Inc., 381 ine welcome, without the commercial­ization of facilities which an increas­ing overhead would long since have justified. 
There, in all too brief form, you have a half dozen major considera­tions which spring to mind readily, pointing out the justice as well as the necessity of a new alumni attitude. 
It will be the objective of this ad­ministration to preserve the alumni benefits which have been developed through the years, and to expand these. Fellowship, spiritual ties with the University, practical aid for the alumnus in business and professional channels, placernent for the young graduates, cultural advantages for the alumni of all years, full recogni­tion of Notre Dame degrees to fur­ther these ends, increased alumni facilities on the campus, continued development of alumni recognition in allotment of football tickets, and all of the things which are identified with the historj' of the Association. Strengthening of the Local Clubs, de­velopment of the class organization. None of these things will be sacri­ficed to the coming program. 
Rather they are supplementary. You will remember the phrase re­peated so many times in your stu­dent days, that every right has a cor­responding duty. We believe that the time is at hand for the proper correlation of the rights and the duties of Notre Dame men. 
Fourth Ave., has also specialized in. Notre Dame material, as representa­tives of publishers, authors and art­ists, handling at the present time such Notre Dame men as George Shuster, '15; Joe Degnan, '34; Vincent Eng­els, '23; John Hinkel, '28, and Wil­liam Toumey, '35. 

FOOTBALL BANQUET 

Monday, January 10, has been agreed upon as the date for the an­nual civic testimonial football ban­quet, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley. 
Chairman Thomas Hickey has promised the same excellent arrange­ments in the University Dining Halls, and the type of program that has made the seventeen banquets preced­ing this outstanding in this field. Leading figures in sports, press, radio. University and entertainment will appear. 
Tickets may be ordered from Her­bert E. Jones, Box 71, Notre Dame. Three dollars continues to be the price per plate. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus December - January 
Old-T imers 

Gather 
See A Thrilling 

Football Game 
The Southern California game saw the tlurd annual assembling of "Old-Timers," this year the monogram men from 1905 to 1910. 
Supper in the cafeteria on PViday night, a showing of the -Army and Navy pictures aftenvard as guests of Director of Athletics Layden, and the smoker of the St. Joe Valley Club as guests of that organization, occupied Friday. (Not to mention the tours of the campus trying to orient memo­ries, in some instances, going back to graduation day.) 
Saturday the "Old-Timers" were guests of the president of the Uni­versity at a buffet luncheon, and in the afternoon sat on the sidelines 
•while Notre Dame won its great bat­tle from Southern California. 
Noted Figures Present 
Back for the game were Don Ham­ilton, '12, Columbus, Ohio, president of the national Monogram Associa­tion; E. Douglas Bonham, Painted Post, New York; A. T. Mertes, Wil­mington, Delaware ; William C. Schmitt and Dominic Callicrate, Port­land, Oregon; Peter Dwyer, Potsdam, New York; Clarence Cripe, Buchan­an, Michigan; Raymond "Dike" Scan-Ion, New York City; Fred Steers, Chicago; Billy Ryan, Cleveland; Carl CentIi\Te, Fort Wayne, Indiana; C. 

E. "Gus" Dorais, De'troit; Rev. M. L. Moriarty, Cleveland; Bob Bracken, Dixon, niinois; 0. D. Hutzell, Fort Wayne, Indiana; E. J. "Copper" LjTich, Toledo, Ohio; Lawrence Mc-Nemey, Elgin, Illinois: M. C. Mc­Gi-ath, St. Joseph, Michigan; Bill Draper and C. L. U. Clemens, Chi­cago; and Howard "Cap" Edwards, South Bend. 
The Athletic Association is inter­ested in collecting and preserving pictures of the early Notre Dame teams. "Old-Timers" interested in co­operating, please note the following: 
Missing in the records are pictures of the football teams of 1888-1889, 



eirrx 
iL^lie l^iiivenlbj acknowLedqes with, deep graUliwe ilie following gifls: 
For the Rocfcne Memorial: 

From KARL F. JOHNSON, '29 ^ 1,000 Anonymous 500 Anonymous 500 
From THE MOST REV. JAMES E CASSIDY, D,D., LL.D., 
'32, Bishop of Fall River: A Thomas B. Mosher edition of Robert Louis Steven­son's "Open Letter to the Rev. Dr. HyHe—on Father Damien." 
From MRS. EUZABETH M . RALPH: 
A Copy of the Navigation Laws of the United States (1935), by Howard Ralph, ex. '23, deceased. 
From MR. C. ROY MCCANNA, Lay Trustee: For Student Relief 200 
From MISS HELEN CHADWICK, Ottawa, Ontario: Eight autographed letters of Orestes Btownson. 
For the DEPARTMENT OF AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING: 
The followinu C8timat€8 include cost of instaltatioil. 
INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE LABORATORY. Pyrometer (complete) .. -5 350.00 
_ .igo.oo 

Gas Analyzer 60.00 Spark Plug Tester 10.00 Oil cooler _ 100.00 Ana]>-tical Balance _ 150.00 Flash Point Tester . 95.00 
.AERODYNAMIC LABORATORY. 

Wire Balance •100.00 Models 
300.00 Pulsation Elimination 100.00 Smoke Apijaratus 150.00 
METEOROLOGY. Temperature Recorder 175.00 Barograpli 3C0.00 HydroEraph . lOfi.OO Rain GauKc 20.00 Weather IJureau Publications (yearly) 10.00 
NAVIGATION. Chart Cabtnet . 75.00 Chronometers 200.00 Time Sienal Radio " 50.00 Globe (to be m.-inufacturcd) 100.00 Charts 50.00 Bureau of Navii^tion Publications (yearly) 15.00 
STRUCTURES. Rib Test Jij-300.00 
DESIGN ROOM. Intem-atiuK Machine "350.00 Calculating Machine _.__ 350.00 
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT. S kw M G set .. 500.00 20 kw M-G set _ 1,100.00 .nO kw M-G set . - 3.000.00 Switch Board and Installation _ 500.00 
-$9,406.00 
and 1903—the latter particularly de­sired since the team was undefeated 


/^fdpt ^ (^C'Ct/tA,^J.C.
and unscored upon. Identification of the players in the following team pictures is desired: 1892-1895-1897­1898 -1899 -1900 -1901 -1902,1904­
1/
1906-1907-1910. 

December - January The Notre Dame Alumnus 73 




UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS . * * 
yiR. CHARLES DU BOS, eminent ••-' French critic and writer, arrived at Notre Dame from Paris recently to join the faculty of the English de­partment of the University. Although he is the grand-nephew of Senator James B. Eustis, the first United States envoy to France to bear the title of aambassador, this is Dr. Du-Bos' first visit to America. 
"I have eagerly anticipated this op­portunity to visit America for many years, chiefly because as a boy my grand-uncle so vividly impressed me with the democratic distinction of America and of American institu­tions during his stay at the embassy in Paris from 1893 to 1897," Dr. DuBos said. 
At Notre Dame, he has just started teaching new elective courses in Eng­lish: Pascal and His Work, The Phi­losophy of Literature, and Studies iji Some Eiiglish and American Writers. 
The last course named includes read­ing in Shelley, Keats, the Brownings, George Eliot, Edith Wharton, and others. These courses are being of­fered in the second half of the pres­ent semester, and will be continued throughout the second semester. 
Early in his youth DuBos became a figure of note in the literary, artistic, and intellectual centers of France, Germany, and Italy. He was the associate and intimate friend of such satellites as Andre Gide, Paul Valery, Maritain, Edith Wharton, Mauriac, and Gilson. 
In the near future. Dr. DuBos plans to give a series of public lec­tures on his friend, the late Edith Wharton, whose novels he translated into French. 
T
HE MEMBERS of the e.\ecutive board of the Catholic Press Asso­ciation met at Notre Dame on Nov­embber 27 and were the gruests of Rev. John P. O'Hara, C.S.C, at a luncheon and at dinner and at the Southern California game. 
R
EV. MICHAEL DE SANCTIS, missionary apostolic of the El Paso diocese, discussed "The Church in Mexico," in Washington Hall on November 23. Father de Sanctis is a leader in the development of plans for a preparatory seminary in El Paso, which will begin the training of young men for the Mexican priest­hood. An advanced seminary for the same purpose is already operating in Las Vegas, New Mexico. 
D
R. WALDEMAR GURIAN, new member of the Department of Politics faculty, was the author of t\vo articles on Russia which ap­peared in recent issues of the Com­montveal. Dr. Gurian has also writ­ten recently for the Dublin Revietv and for Foreign Affairs. 
pEOF . T. BOWYER CAMPBELL, ••• of the Department of History, on November 15 addressed the Catholic Forum of South Bend on "The Ox­ford Movement." 
•PiEAN
 JAMES E. MCCARTHY, of -L' the College of Commerce, was appointed in November by Governor 

M.
 Clifford Townsend as a member of a five-man tax conmuission which will study the state's taxing system \vith a view to recommending revisions. Dean McCarthy was chosen tempor­ary chairman of the group. 


rpHE 53RD ANNUAL Conference -'• of the Indiana Academy of Sci­ence, conducted at Manchester Col­lege, North Manchester, Indiana in early November, was attended by the following faculty men from Notre Dame: Professors George Collins, Ar­thur Haas, H. D. Hinton, Eugen Guth, Karl Menger and George F. Hennion. 
F
ATHER JOHN F. O'HARA, pres­ident of the University, outlined the development of the University, past, present and future, in a com­prehensive talk before the Rotary Club of South Bend on November 3. 
Later in the month Father O'Hara addressed approximately a thousand Knights of Columbus at a Commun­ion-breakfast in Kokomo, Indiana. The Notre Dame marching band also participated in the Kokomo event. 
T
HE DECEMBER lecture schedule includes five lectures beginning on December 13 by Most Rev. Francis C. Kelly, D.D., bishop of Oklahoma City and Tulsa,oh the general subject of "The New Samaritan." Bishop Kelly is particularly noted as one of the founders and the first president of the Catholic Church Extension Society. 
Countess Clar a Longworth de Chambrun, sister of the late Nicholas Longworth, for many years speaker of the House of Representatives, ad­dressed the students and faculty in Washington Hall on December 5 and 6 on the works of Shakespeare. The Countess is a recognized authority in the Shakespearean fiield. 
Dr. Melchior Palyi, former finan­cial authority in Germany and at present a visiting professor in the University of Chicago, addressed the College of Commerce students on December 6 on "The European Eco­nomic and Financial Situation." 

V
ERY REV. JAS. W. DONAHUE, C.S.C, superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, headed a delegation of priests and brothers who, late in October, sailed for Le­Mans, France to take part in the 100th anniversary of the founding of the order. The Congregation was es­tablished in 1837 in LeMans when the Auxiliary Priests of LeMans, founded by Rev. Basil Anthony Mo­reau, and the Brothers of St. Joseph, founded by Rev. Jacob Francis Du­jarie, were united under the name of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Accompanying Fathe r Donahue were the following: Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C, Rev. Edward Laurin, CS.C, Rev. Kemdt Healy, C.S.C, Brother Cyprian, C.S.C, Brother Bernard, C.S.C, and Brother Lam­bert, CS.C 
From St. Mary's for the observ­ance went Mother Eleanore, C.S.C. and Sister Pranciana, C.S.C. 
N
OTRE DAME will mark its 100th anniversary in 1942. The first freshman to enroll for 1938, who, he hopes, will be a member of the Cen­tennial graduating class, is Paul Ger­ard Smith. From the humble origin of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Le Mans, France, to Hollywood, Califor­nia, is a long stretch of both geogra.­phy and imagination. But such is the fame Notre Dame has achieved in these intervening years that this first freshman comes from the cinema cap­ital, a student in Loyola High school. Paul has enrolled for journalism. 
Equally significant of the distribu­tion of Notre Dame students is the fact that the next ten freshmen for 1938 are from Ohio, New Jersey, In­diana, New York, Connecticut, Wy­oming, Missouri, Vermont, Massachu­setts and Michigan. Such is the good seed on fertile ground. 
P
ERITONITIS, FOLLOWING an operation for an abscess, took the life of a sophomore Commerce stu­dent, Leonard Francis Casassa, Free­port, Long Island, New York, on November 6 in St. Joseph hospital. South Bend. Death came after a crit­ical illness of two weeks during which the campus offered incessant prayers for his recovery. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus December - January 
» » »


SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI 
A
LBERT PICK, ex. '85, is chair­man of the Pick Hotels Corpora­tion, which recently leased for 20 years the Oliver Hotel in South Bend and will spend there between §75,000 and $100,000 in the next three years in a program of improvement. 
ALBERT PICK 
From 1893 to 1928 Mr. Pick was president of the well-known Albert Pick & Co., manufacturers and dis­tributors of hotel supplies and fur­nishings. In 1926 he founded the Pick Hotels Corporation of which he was president until 1931, when he became chairman. The corporation now operates 17 hotels in eight Mid­dle West states. 
R
EV. JOSEPH B. TOOMEY, '26, is the new resident director of charities for the southern section of the diocese of Syracuse, New York, with headquarters in Binghampton, according to a recent announcement by Most Rev. Walter A. Foery, bish­op of Syracuse. Father Toomey had been chaiixnan of the character, rec­reational and forming agency of the Syracuse Community Chest and ac­tive in various social service agencies in that city, as well as director of the Catholic Youth Camp at Little York Lake. 
R
EV. WILLIAM S. SCANDLON, C.S.C., '30, of the University of Portland, Oregon, has been appointed by Most Rev. Edward D. Howard, archbishop of Portland, as diocesan superintendent of schools for the cur­rent year. nHARLBS M. DOUGHERTY, '26, ^ is, and has been since last July, director of motor vehicles for the state of Pennsylvania, with head­quarters in Harrisburg. In that im­mense job he is responsible for the collection of more than ?37,000,000 a year and for the handling of more than 2,000,000 sets of license plates and more than 2,500,000 operators' licenses. He supervises a record sec­tion which handles 50,000,000 records and a correspondence section which handles about 1,000,000 letters a year. More than 900 persons work 

under him. 
Charlie was appointed chief of the accounts section in the bureau of motor vehicles in 1935 and was ad­vanced to his new Job because of out­standing merit. Before 1935 he was in accounting work and was the own­er and manager of a retail coal busi­ness in Philadelphia. 
CHARLES M. DOUGHERTY 

D
ANIEL MARTIN COUGHLIN, '22, known to Notre Dame as Danny and to the Minnesota news­paper fraternity as Marty, recently was appointed postmaster in Waseca, Minnesota, to succeed his father John P. Coughlin, who had resigned after a four-year term. 
Danny and his father are business manager and editor, respectively, of the AVaseca Herald, one of Minneso­ta's leading papers. Both the father and the son have served as president of the Minnesota Editorial Associa­tion. Danny is active in civic organ­izations and in the American Legion in Waseca and for many years has been secretary of the county Demo­cratic committee. 

All of which follows, of course, Danny's brilliant Notre Dame career as a star football player, distin­guished student and campus leader. 
LA^\•RE^•CE T. "BUCK" SHAW 

L
AWRENCE T. "BUCK" SHAW, '22, is the phenomenally success­ful head football coach of the Uni­versity of Santa Clara team, which so far in the present season is unde­feated and untied and has scored 157 points to nine for its opponents. It will meet Louisiana State in the Sugar Bowl game in New Orleans on New Year's day. 
Buck's teams has won 16 out of 17 games since he became head coach at the start of the 1936 season. The high spot in that string was the sen­sational 21-14 victory over Louisiana State in the Sugar Bowl game a year ago. 
L
OUIS HASLEY, '30, associate professor of English in the Uni­versity, was represented in Novem­ber by two articles and a poem in leadin g magazines. The Catholic World presented his "The Stream of Consciousness Method," which brief­ly explained this modem literary device and answered several of the most important objections to it. Columbia carried his poem "After Confession" and his article "Poetry and Stuff," which analyzed the rea­sons why the average citizen avoids the fine arts, and especially poetry. 
Lou is a regular contributor to these two magazines and has contrib­uted as well as to America, Spirit, Poetry World and The Lyric. 
December - January The Notre Dame Alumnus 75 
BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. *32 
» » » 

Director of Athletic Publicity 

ATHLETICS 
Six victories, two defeats, and a tie, exactly duplicating last year's record, is Notre Dame's entry in the 1937 football record book. Consid­ering material, schedule, and the other elements that go to make or break a season, we hereby nominate Coach Elmer Layden and his assist­ants "Coaches of the Year." 
The Irish went through their card without the services of a top-notch triple-threat back — the fellow we told you was missing when practice opened. Well, he never did show. Bunny McCormick, the best running back on the squad, was jammed up enough in the Navy game so that he was well below peak efficiency the rest of the year. Jack McCarthy did a grand job at left halfback, and we have no criticism of him to offer. He did the best he could, playing over his head in several games, but he is 
ALEC SHELLOGG 

not the game - breaking tjTie; he hasn't the talents of a great open field runner; he lost his passing touch to a considerable extent this year, and he never was a gi-eat distance kicker. He certainly did the best he could with the abilities at hand— and I'm sure that's all you or any­one else asks of him. 
The fullback post presented many problems during the season. Mario (Motts) Tonelli stai-ted the season, with Ed Simonich as his understudy. When the former was hurt and the latter was ill, Joe 'Thesing, a soph­omore, started against Carnegie Tech, with Harold Hottsacker, Chuck Riffle, and Ben Binkowski, under him. Sim­onich came back to the No. 2 spot for the Minnesota game. Tonelli came back to the No. 1 spot with only a few minutes remaining against U.S.C, but he ran 70 and 13 yards, respectively, on two attempts and won the ball game, 13 to 6. 
Andy Puplis, the best back on the field for his size, was certainly Notre Dame's outstanding triple - threater. 
1938 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 

Oct. 1—Kansas at Notre Dame Oct. 8—Georgia Tech at N. D. Oct. 15—Illinois at Notre Dame Oct. 22—Carnegie Tech at N. D. Oct. 29—Army at New York Nov. 5—Navy at Baltimore Nov. 12—Minnesota at Notre Dame Nov. 19—Northwestern at Evanston Dec. 3—Southern Calif, at L. A. 
as he found out himself when con­fronted with the statistics of the sea­son. But Andy is not temperamen­tally the quarterback type. Even when told to run from punt forma­tion and to pass, he'd call some one else's number because he had been stopped on a run or two and because he though he might be accused of featuring himself. We suppose these were his reasons, at least. 
The statistics of the season show that he carried the ball 18 times from scrinunage on mnning plays, and that he averaged an amazing 9.S yards! Nearly 10 yards a trip. He, himself, thought his average was about four or five yards. He threw four passes, completing two. He averaged 13.4 yards on his punt re­turns. His average on all types of plays, having handled the oval 46 times, was 12.4 yards. He "led the team in scoring, making touchdowns against Minnesota, Pittsburgh, and Southem California, and kicking 6 out of 8 extra point attempts from placement. 
Now, if Ml-. Puplis had known that his efforts were to be blessed so plen­tifully— that he were to have the highest running average probably of any first string Notre Dame back in history, that he were to complete 50 percent of his passes, and that he could still be a good quai-terback and a fine blocker — the season might have had a different complexion. True, he was injured slightly for the Illinois tie and the Carnegie loss, so maybe all this conjecture is goofy from the start. 
The line developed in a way that is a distinct credit to Joe Boland, and End Coach Joe Benda. Chuck Sween­ey, right end, who beat out Capt. Joe Zwei-s when the latter sluffed off a bit because of injuries, has made most of the AU-American teams an­nounced to date. Ed Beinor, junior left tackle, has been placed on sev­eral, including the All - American Board and the NEA Service elevens. Joe Kuharich, Beinor, Sweeney, and Puplis each made the Jlinnesota and Pittsburgh all-opponent teams, which, if we were receiving any mythical honors, would be the ones we should prize most highly. 
CHUCK SWEENEY 

The prevalence of stand-out cen­ters is probably all that kept Pat Mc­Carty—who v.ill be in line for Con­grats Dec. 28 when he is married— off the all - .A.merican lists. He was 
, everything a center should be. Al Shellogg, Beinor's running mate at right tackle, was only a shade behind Beinor, and on some occasions better than the junior ail-American. Joe Ruetz and Joe Kuharich, the anti-touchdown twins. South Bend's con­tributions at the guards, were mas­ters of every situation. That leaves Len Skoglund, the left end, with the 93 percent classroom average. Play­ing with a leg injury all season, he performed in almost flawless style. He's our candidate as the most under-i-ated man of the year. A gabfest of coaches recently failed to uncover more than two instances throughout the season when Skoglund "looked bad" on a play—^which is consider­able of a tribute. 
The season was a success from every point of view. Notre Dame won games it was not rated to win, so let's forget the t^vo losses and the tie. Illinois and Carnegie Tech.each caught the Irish on "one of those days." Pitt didn't lose to anyone else all season, and it's no disgrace to go down like the Irish did against the Panthers. But we can't refrain from discussing a couple of might-have­beens. 
These are not alibis, but they show how close a team can come to vic­tory . . . without cashing in. Why, even George Moriarty at -A.quinas high in LaCrosse almost broke all precedent by upsetting another La­Crosse team last fall. His boys had 
The Notre Dame Alumnus December - January 
the ball six inches from the goal when a sub decided it would be a good time to talk after reporting. The resulting a-yard penaltj' blooied Aquinas' chances. Pitt beat Notre Dame, though, 21 to 6. The Irish had been outplaj-ed for three quar­ters, but Pitt had never threatened seriously, and Notre Dame had scored 6 points. On third down with 11 to go, early in the fourth period, Mar­shall Goldberg, a* great running back 
CHUCK O'REILLY 
and admittedly a punk passer, sent a side-arm wobbler to Hoffman who raced to the Irish 5-yard line. Two plays later Frank Patrick crashed over, Souchak added the placement, and a double metamorphosis occurred. Notre Dame, which had been fighting on sheer inspiration and coui-age, col­lapsed. Pitt, which had shown defi­nite signs of the jitters, verging on panic, suddenly became the unbeat­able power house, a confident, roar­ing Panther which wouldn't be de­nied. Had Notre Dame stopped that pass, it might have been, and we shall always believe it would have been, a different stoiy. 
We have no desire, as Paul Fen-Ion might say, to put anyone in the grease, so we shan't mention names. But when a certain Notre Dame sec­ond string lineman was hurt, it was necessaiy to replace him in the Na\T, Minnesota, and Pitt games with a re­serve. The drop-off from the second to the third team at this position was terrific. Every time Coach Layden got a chance to stick in the shock troops, with their one weak link, the opposition started piling through the 
paper spot in the line. When the op­position began to feel its oats, Lay­den -wisely sent the first team back to battle. Thus the regulars, who had already played a lot of time against Illinois and Carnegie Tech, had to play nearly 60 minutes each against Navy, Jlinnesota, and Pitt. Navy was just as big as the other two, and nearly as powerful. All three concentrated on the line from tackle to tackle with power attacks. 
This doesn't pretend to explain the Illinois tie with and Carnegie Tech victory over the Irish. But it does show, we believe, how, with a little nod from a favorable fortune, the scrap and fight of as game a Notre Dame team as ever wore the blue and green jerseys of the Irish might not have been in vain against Pitt.. 
The tabulation on this page is one in which all of you ^^^ll be interested. It lists all the men who saw action in 1937, some of them, it is true, for only a minute or two. The graduat­ing seniors are listed in capital let­ters. Coach Elmer Layden will have another chance in 1938 to be the Coach of the Year. 
An earlier issue reviewed the first four games. Following is the com­plete record, and a brief review of the high spots of the last five con­tests. A curious sidelight of the sea­son is the fact that after the 21 to 0 victor}' over Drake, Notre Dame scored 56 points to opponents' 49, a difference of 7 points. Over this span, the Irish won a games, lost 2, and tied 1. In six straight games the Irish got one touchdown a game, and they averaged one touchdown a game for eight contests following the Drake opener. Only 25 men, lowest number in nine years, will get mon­ogi-ams. 
The record: 
Notre Dame, 21; Drake, 0 
Notre Daice, 0; Illinois, 0 
Notre Dame, 7; Carnegie Tech, 9 
Notre Dame, 9; Navy, 7 
Notre Dame, 7; Minnesota, 6 
Notre Dame, 6; Pittsburgh, 21 
Notre Dame, 7; Army, 0 Notre Dame, 7; Northwestern, 0 
Notre Dame, 13; Southern Calif., 6 

-Aiter about ten minutes of play against the Mighty Men of Minne­sota, -Andy Puplis grabbed a Gopher punt and returned it 34 yards into Minnesota territory. Jack McCarthy advanced the ball deeper, and finally it rested on Minnesota's 4-yard line. Puplis scored through his left guard on a quarterback sneak. He added the placement and it was 7 to 0. Minnesota scored on a pass. Van Every to King, in the second quarter, and Sweeney made his second bid for ail - -American honors by blocking Faust's placement for extra point. He had won the Navy game by tack­ling Al McParland of Navy in the end zone for the winning safety. 
There were 35 minutes of play left after the Minnesota touchdo^vn. And these were 35 minutes of perfect de­fensive football by Notre Dame. Every man played his position, smart­ly, sometimes heroically. Pat McCar-
PAUL KELL 

ty and Ed Simonich, backing up a line that was never fooled, were su­perb. It was Minnesota's first home defeat since 1932, the first time Coach Bemie Bierman had lost to a team he scouted personally — he caught Notre Dame twice—^the first time an opponent scored on Minne­sota through the line in Bierman's five years thei-e, and it kept clean Notre Dame's record of not having lost to Minnesota in four starts in football. The Irish have lost only 4 games to Big Ten teams in 20 years. (Continued on PaKO 8G) 
RANKING OF NOTRE DAME TEAMS AT END OF 1937 SEASON 
L.E.  SKOGLUND  Brown  
L.T.  Beinor  EM.^TJEL  
L.G.  RUETZ  McGoldrick  
C.  McCARTY  Longhi  
E.G.  KUHARICH  MARSH-4LL  
R.T. A. Shellogg  Kell  
R.E.  SWEENEY  ZWER S  (C )  
Q.B. PUPLIS  O'REILLY  
L.H. MCCARTHY  Stevenson  
R.H. MCCORMICK  E. -ARBOIT  
F.B.  Thesing  Simonich  

Seniors indicated in capitals 

CLIFFORD Kerr O'Loughlin ELY Brew P. Shellogg FOSTER DeFranco FOGEL Mooney Finneran 
RACE Bossu JIULCAHEY Harvey -Albert JIURPHY J. G. KELLY J. P. Kelly Hofer Sitko Crowe Zontini Lynn Sheridan 
GLEASON Corgan Bumell Tonelli Gottsacker Riffle P. Arboit HoUendoner 
Adamonis FOX McDonough 
T. Brennan 
McMahon John Sullivan Dan Sullivan 

December - January The Notre Dame Alumnus 
BY JOHN J. LECHNER. '37 


CAMPUS NOTES » » 
THE PAINS OF ABRAHAM 
It seems that Eli Abraham, '36, Niles, Ohio, has been around the campus since "the mind of man run­neth not to the contrary" or there­abouts. Manager of program sales, Eli this last season had his troubles especially at the snowstorm-played Navy game in which his salesmen returned with more programs than money. Accordingly a meeting was called by Abraham to get his men into a fighting, selling mood for the rest of the season. 
All went well at the meeting as long as Eli confined himself to an exposition of program-selling tech­
• nique. When he turned on the pathos, however, pointing out in pitiable phrases the necessity of selling out all programs for the remaining two games, with the alternative of Abra­ham approaching destitution, a fresh­man boldly cried: "I'll trade you jobs! And if you put me in front of an empty section again this Saturday I'm going to (his voice trailed into inaudibility) pop you one." Abraham took the incipient mutiny in good spirit although the next Saturday we'll swear that we saw his heckler despairingly trying to sell programs in the Boy Scout section. 
But retribution, as it must to all men, came to Eli Abraham. Sent to the downtown hotels the night before the Pitt game by Ticket Manager Herb Jones to put the collar on ticket scalpers, Abraham himself was picked up by two plain-clothes men on sus­picion. 
INSOLVENCY 
Being in a more or less insolvent condition is no novelty for many a Notre Dame man. "The Reorganiza­tion of Insolvent Corporations under Section 77B, of the Bankruptcy Act" is something else again. The above was the topic for a lecture delivered last month by Arthur J. Hughes, LL.B., '17, outstanding Chicago law­yer and 1936-37 president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, be­fore members of the University's Law club at their regular monthly meet­ing. Mr. Hughes' lecture attracted the law students almost to a man and those in" attendance were rewarded with a^iine,'carefully prepared speech upon a topic on which the speaker is an admitted practical authority. It goes without saying that Mr. Hughes is a success in his chosen field. In passing oh to those still in school the results of his study and experience, Mr. Hughes, as an alumnus of Notre Dame, formed a link, for those stu­dents who heard him, between the 
theory of the classroom and the prac­tical aspects of the practice of law. Other alumni, geographically access­ible to the campus and as profession­ally competent in their iields as Mr. Hughes is in his, might well continue to serve their University by serving as "links" to the students In the va­rious departments. 
THE MONTH IN BRIEF 
Scrip, campus literary quarterly made its first appearance of the year as did the initial issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer. . . Charles B. Nelson, Decatur, Illinois, edits the former publication and John E. DeMots, Minot, North Dakota, the latter. . . Mention of the Lawyer recalls the clipping noted in one of the local papers this month announcing the coming of an evangelist: "The Rev­erend Blank, a former lawyer and nolo a convert to the church will speak at 10 a.m.". . . There's always hope, apparently, no matter even if one sinks so low as to be a "former attorney." 
STUDENT DIRECTORY 
Among the names in the recently issued student directory are Azpiazu, Cacchiol, lliff, Czizek, Geselbrecht, Juszczak, Psik, Ciekla, Zebiob, and Semczysyn. . . . There should be at least one AU-American in that group. . . . There are 29 SuUivans, 24 Kel­lys, 23 Murphys and the same num­ber of O'Briens, with the Ryans, Brennans, Doyles, O'Donnells, Flan­agans, and Gallaghers breathing hard on the necks of the leaders. . . The Jones', like the American Indian, are slowly dying out, there being but one Jones in the whole school. . . . There are only 19 Smiths and 11 Browns. . . 
GREAT GRANDSON 
George A. Barber, Ludington, Mich­igan, a graduate student in Boy Guidance, is a great grandson of one of Notre Dame's earliest students, John Riordan, who was here in 1852­
53. . . . George is also a cousin of Registrar Bob Riordan. . . . 75% of the 1937 Law School graduating class have successfully passed their bar ex­aminations. . . The lights are burn­ing brightly in the campue rec. halls these nights with the various campus clubs planning for their Christmas vacation dances. . . Lot's of luck, boys! May the weather man be good-to you. . . Sudden thought: Coming back to the student directory again we note that we have with us this year two Roaches, two Fish, seven Foxes, a Wolf, and a Wren. Why not have them all quartered over in the new Biology building?. . . . Notre Dame has enlisted in the fight of the National Council of Catholic Women against Immoral magazines. . . Vol­ujiteer canvassers have been going through the various halls asking the students to sign cards pledging to refrain from purchasing or reading any magazine of questionable content and to withhold all patronage from places where such literature is sold. 
FOOTBALL MOVIES Dan Cochran, Wheeling, West Va., senior in electrical engineering, has "shot" his last game for Notre Dame . . . During his four years of taking motion pictures of all Notre Dame football games Dan has turned the crank on 60,000 feet of fihn. . . He hopes to connect with a newsreel company upon graduation in June... Our games with Navy have always been Dan's "jinx" ^vith weather con­ditions, place from which to shoot etc., at their poorest. . . St. Edward's hall won the Victor F. Lemmer tro­phy symbolic of the interhall debat­ing championship by vanquishing Morrissey hall. . . The question de­bated was: "Resolved; That the na­tional labor relations board should be empowered to enforce arbitration of all industrial disputes.". . . The van­ning team included Al Hanlon, Hel­ena, Montana; Albert Schmitz, St. Joseph, Missouri, and Walter John­son, Bronxville, New York. . . Their coach was John Tobin, Elgin, Illinois . . . Frank Fitch, Cherokee, Iowa, acted as chairman throughout the contest which had entries from 13 halls. 
DRAMATICS ORGANIZED 
Ray Sadlier, New York City, a sophomore in Commerce, was elected president of the newly organizes Dramatic club. . . Other officers in­clude: Robert Blake, Canton, Ohio, and John Gorman, Detroit, Michigan, vice-presidents, and Hal Sitt, Chica­go, Illinois, secretary. . . The club's first offering, to be produced soon, will be "Moonshine," a drama of the Kentucky hills. . ..Hit's aboot time that we-uns hyar at Notre Dame were havin' a drammer to air our peepers at. . . Professor Thomas E. Mills of the Department of Speech is the director of the organization. . . . Fathers John F. Farley, C.S.C, and Charles L. Doremus, C.S.C, have been temporarily relieved of their duties as rector and prefect, respectively, of Sorin Hall due to ill health. Father James Stack, C.S.C, is acting' as Sorin rector! 
The Notre Dame Alumnus December - January 




ALUMNI CLUBS . > » 
AKRON 
Frank B. Steel, er. '25. 327 Wildnood Ave­nue, President: James E. Coulter, ex. *30, 573 West Exchanee Street, Secretary. 

ARKANSAS 
Burt L. Eo1ieTt>, 1325 Lincoln Ave., little Rode, Ark., Secretary. 

BENGAL 
Et. Eev. Timothy Crowley, CIS.C, 'Ot, Dacca, Bengal. India, President; Bev. J. J. Henneuey, C.S.G., '02, Dacca. Bensal, India, SecxetaiT. 
BERRIEN COUNTY (MieUgu) 
Thomas Grimes. '34. 35 Ssuth Third Street. Niles, Michisan. President: Sheridan Cook. '32. C.O South Bend Tribune. 119 North Third Street, Niles, Michigan, Secretary. 
Those Buchanan barristers, Phil Landsman and Bill Desenberg, col­laborated in giving the Berrien Coun­ty club one of the best meetings of the year November 19 at D's cafe in Buchanan. Phil had charge of the program and Bill arranged the menu. 
Phil gave us Professor Joseph Apo­daca from the campus who gave us a talk on "Fascism." Bill's contribu­tion to the evening was fish which was the best Professor Joe had ever eaten, according to his own admis­sion. • Because Professor Joe's talk was one of the best the club has had the privilege of hearing I guess the co-chairmen of the evening finished in a dead heat. 
It was John Medo's last night be­fore joining the ranks of the bene­dicts and he showed up after prac­tice at the church with his best man, Louis Gogola. The impending event didn't bother John's appetite but his luck was bad following the regular session. 
. Paul Kelly, a new member from Buchanan, met with us for the first time. C. W. Bookwalter, of Niles, father of Jim, was a guest of the dub. Jim Armstrong was present and'-had just wound up for a long talk on the familiar topic of his, "Why Don't You Pay Your Dues," when Medo walked in and cut him short. Good old Medo! 
• • Those present were Bill Desenberg, Joseph Apodaca, Bill Madden, John Janch, Carl Garmeier, Ken Geide­-mannj Ted Harji, C. W. Bookwalter, James Bookwalter, Clarence -Hess, "Bob 'Waterson, Jim Kenny, Dr. Russ Hart, Gerald Wedel, A! Johnson, Tom Grimes, Jim Armstrong, Phil Lands­
man and Sheridan Cook.-. 

Sheridan Cook. 
President Thomas Grimes has pre­pared a calendar for the club year which promises activity for all the members: 
December 15 — Christmas party. Wren Hotel, Berrien Springs; Janu­ar}' 20 — Hot Stove Get-Together, Niles; February 22 — Washington's Birthday, Niles; April 20 — Ladies Night, St. Joe or Benton Harbor; April 25 — U.N.D. Night, attend St. Joseph Valley Club observance; May 20 — Meeting in Niles; Summer Par­ty — Lake Michigan. 



BOSTON 
Fred C. Solari, '35, Center St., Ponhnik*, 
Hus., President: John J. Hanley, '34,. 409 
Salem St, Hedford, Mass., Secretary: Paul 
HcMa]iiia,-*34. Fox & Hounds Club, Boston, 
Mass., Secretary. 
We had a crowd of about 25 up to our new club rooms at the Fox and Hounds to listen to the broadcast of the Minnesota game. Art Hughes, just that morning elected president of the Catholic -Alumni Federation at the Statler, came over ^vith a retinue from the convention, and Joe Gar­gan, our silent but mighty power be­hind the throne, forgot the mayoralty 
William E Cotter, '13. New York Gty 
Harry F. Kelly, '17, Detroit. Michigan 

Charles A. Mooney, Jr., '26, Cleveland, Ohio James E. Armstrong, "25, Notre Dame 
William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame James E. Deery, '10, Indianapolis, Ind 

Don P. O'Keefe, '03, Detroit, Michigan Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, New Jersey 
Francis H. McKeever, '03, Chicago, Illinois Arthur J. Hughes, '11,Chicago, Illinois To be elected—Member of 1937 Class 
District Governors* and Lieutenant Governors 1937-38 
The I937-I938 Board 
Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C, '88, Notre Dame, ind Honorary President 
 President  First Vice-President  Second Vice-President  Secretary-Treasurer  Assistant Secretary  Director to 1938  Director to 1939  Director to 1940  Director to 1941  Director to 1938 (ex-officio)  Director to 1938 
1.—^No. Indiana and Southwestern Michisan: 
A. GORDON TAYLOR, '18. LaPorte, Indi­ana: JOSEPH F. DONAHtJB, '11, South Bend, Indiana. 
2.—Chicauo: JOHN M. MONTAGnE, '23, Chicago. Illinois; EDWARD W. GODU), "23, Chicago, Illinois. 
3.—Ohio, W. Pennsylvania and West Va.: OTIS S. WINCHESTER. '29, Qeveland, Ohio; EDWARD C. BYRNES, '25, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
4.—Minnesota. Wisconsin, Northern Mich.: HAROLD WATSON. '25, Minwanltee. Wis.: JOHN YELLAND, 'SO, Minneapolis, Minn. 
5.—Michigan (except the TI.P. and S.W.) : JOSEPH J. NORTON, '24. Detroit, Michigan: HON. JOSEPH SANFORD, '21, Muskegon, Mich. 
6.—Uevr Jersey, Delaware. Md.. East Pa., D.C.: JAMES D. HAYES, '17, Washington. 
D.C:
 ROBERT PHELAN, '22, East Orange, 

N.
 J. 


7.—New York Oty: HENRY R. FREY, '30: LEO V. MCLAUGHLIN. '32. 
8.—Hew York, (except New York City): JOHN G. BYRNE. '23. Buffalo, New York: THOMAS V. DOLIARD,'21, Troy, New York. 
9.—New England: WALTER J. STAPLE­TON. '24. Bridgeport. (3onn.: ROBERT W. POWERS, '29. Providence, R, I. 
10.—Virginia. No. and So. (!aro1inaa: THOMAS A. DAFFRON. '30. Richmond. Va.; REV. THOMAS MACKIN. '15. Spartans-burg, S. C. 
.11.—Alabama. Georgia and Florida: JO­SEPH E. FTTZPATRICK. '25. Miami, Fta.; CHARLES POWERS. '31. Savannah. Ga. 

* The spvemor is the first name in eadl < 
12.—Kentucky. So. Ind.. Tenn.: JAMES A. McKEE. '93, Versailles. Ky.; MARION HEF­FERNAN, '28, Louisville. 
13.—La., Miss., and Ark.: WILLIAM H. MILLER. '30, Vicksburg, Miss.: OIARLES DE L\ VERGNE, '25, New Orleans. 
14.—Texas: M. E. WALTER. '14, Houston. Texas: CLYDE E. BROUSSARD, '13, Beau­mont, Texas. 
15.—Kan.. Mo., Okla., So. IlL: DANIEL F. FOLEY, '23. Ft Leavenworth, Kan.: N. F. SCHWARTZ, '33, Salina. Kan. 
16.—No. 111.. Iowa. Nebraska: J. HENRY FANNAN, '24. Rockford, M.: ELMER J. MOHAN, '17, Streator, Hi. 
17.—Mont. Wyo., No. and So. Dak.: LEO 
F. CRAIG. '04. Sioux Falls. S. Dak.: ROB­ERT CUMMINS, '26, Handan, N. Dak. 
18.—Utah and Colorado: RAYMOND M, HUMPHREYS. '17, Denver, Colo.: ROBERT 
A. DICK, '29, Denver. 
19.—Sa Calif.. N. Mex.. Ariz., W. Texas; ANTON R. HEBENSTREIT. '11. Albuquer­que. N. Mex.: TERENCE B. COSGROVE, *06, Los Angeles. 
20.—No. Cal and Nevada: ROYAL BOSS­HARD. '17. San Francisco. Calif.; BERNARD 
J. ABROTT, '27, San Francisco. 
21.—Wash.. Ore., and Idaho: NATT Bfo. DOUGAL. '00. Portland. Ore.: EMMETT LENIHAN, '17, Seattle, Wash. 
22.—Foreign: C. C. FITZGERALD, • '94. Havana, Cuba: ANTONIO ROXAS. '26, Manila, P. L 

December - January The Noire Dame Alumnus 
campaign and similar lesser matters, in favor of the far more important matter of listening to N.D. beat Min­nesota. 
On further consideration, I am compelled to admit that that word "silent" is used with many reserva­tions. Neither he nor anybody else was very silent on that afternoon. The venerable old oaken beams of the Fox and Hound trembled more than once during that game. 
After the game was over we had a short informal meeting, presided over by Fred Solar!. Art Hughes gave a brief talk', and Joe Gargan rem­inisced on his playing days at Notre Dame, back in '13 and '14, when Jack Marks was coaching. His description of the St. Viator's game, during the latter stages of which Marks had Joe tearing furiously up and down the sidelines while he tensely demanded of him, "Think you can hold 'em, Joe? Think ya can hold 'em?"—The score at that point being 98-0 in Notre Dame's favor—ivas a gem. 
The meetings will continue week­ly during the football season. We have written to the campus Boston Club regarding a joint alumni-cam­pus club dance at Christmas, and if this materializes, Boston will see the gayest N.D. social event in her his­tory. . 
Paul McManus. 
* 

BUFFALO Georse E. Doyle. Jr., 'SO, Libertr Bank 
Bide., President: Robert Ueaser, '34. Am­
herst Bee Co.. ITaln & Rock Stx., Wlllisms-
Tflle. N. Y., Secretary. 

CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-IIl.) Frank J. Galvin, '23, First Trust BIdg., 
Hammond, President; Fred J. Solman, Jr., 
*28, 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond, Secretary. 
* 

CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) 
Edward J. Eckert, '33. 5 Lawnridge Ave,, 
Albany. President: H. V. Canavan, '28, 254 

Patridffe St, Albany, Secretary. At a meeting of our Club, held Saturday afternoon, November 20, we listened to the broadcast of the Notre Dame - Northwestern' football game. After the game, we discussed the awarding of the Rockne Trophy, the contest having resulted in a three-way tie. It was decided to leave the awarding of the trophy to the dioce­san authorities as has been the prac­tice in previous years. We decided to hold our annual Christmas dance and the following members of a committee were ap­pointed : — Clare Touhey, chairman; Sherbourne Herrick, assistant chair­man, Edward Eckert, Richard Walsh, Mike Leding, Thomas Dollard, Jack Casazza and Harold Canavan. The club will have a special section re­served at the Notre Dame—Colgate basketball game. Harold V. Canavan. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN Dr. E. J. Hermes, 'IB. 1910 Oakland St., 
lansinff. President; J. Harvey Gftuthler,'SO, 
Bark River, Hieb., Secretary. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY Anthony V. Ceres, '28, Perth Amboy Natl. 
Bank Bide., Perth Amboy. President; Jonu 
Liaidd, '31, 21B Water Street, Perth Amboy, 
Secretary. 
CENTRAL OHIO Raymond J. Eichenlaub, '15, Hosier Realty 
Btdf.. Colombus, President. 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA William J. McAIeer. '31, 1518 19th Avenna 
Altoona. Pa,, President: Edward F. Lee, 
'31, 210 13th Street, Altoona. Pa., Secre­
tary. 
* 

CHICAGO Francis J. Oderlch, Jr., '32, 864 Larrabee 
St., ChicaEo, President: Georee A. Brantl-
Ean, '29. Ill W. "Washinsrton St., Chicago, 
Secretary. 
CINCINNATI Frank H. Sweeney, ex. '17, Kemper I^ne 
Hotel, President; Oarence Brink. '31, 1308 
Cryer Ave., Hyde Park, Secretary. The Notre Dame Club of Cincin­nati received a fine note recently from its senior member, William J. McCarthy, '83, expressing his appre­ciation of the honor of membership but regretting his inability to attend the meetings regularly. 
The club is also planning a big meeting with Elmer Layden. Frank Sweeney adds the following: 
Bill Steinkemper (the local papers call him Wee Willie) has made him­self a host of friends coming to Cin. cinnati. Bill is one of the stars on the Bengal professional football team. During his off-time,Bill is employed in the Kroger Grocery & Baking Company's general office and from reports is making fine headway. 
"Oddity in the News": Last year Don Geyer played against Steinkem­per. This year they occupied the same rom' listening to the Northwest-em-Notre Dame game. 
Bob Wilke during this past season served as assistant coach at Xavier University. Bob had as his boss our old friend Clem Crowe. Bob, also, is employed in Cincinnati, being con­nected with the investment house of 
A. E. Aub & Co. Bob, by the way, is taking unto himself a wife this month. Congratulations, Bob, and lots of good wishes. 
Jack Heilker, former member of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, is back home in Cincinnati. Jack has returned to his law practice. We are all mighty happy to have him at our meetings. 
A. M. Stick is another one of our members who has left the bachelor ranks. Red chose Thanksgiving Day for his tie-up and we all extend him congratulations and good wishes. 
Ray Eichenlaub dropped, in to say "hello" while in town ofiSciating at one of the recent Xavier games. 
Fathers Dolan and Hart, of the Mission Band, spent a nice evening with a group of the fellows at Al Castellini't house while here in Cin­cinnati giving a mission at St. Mary's Church. 
Joseph (Chief) Meyer has just been appointed head football coach at the University of Cincinnati. Foot­ball at U. C. has been in the cellar for some time; consequently, we are happy to see them pick Joe for the revivalist. We all wish him ' good luck. 
Plans are now being made for our annual Christmas party. December 26 is the date set, the location being Hyde Park country dub. The com­mittee in charge consists of: AI Cas­tellini, chairman, assisted by Don Dixon, Bob Hughes, Rav Pellman, Dick Shiels. Clarence Brink, Walt Nienaber, Bob Wilke and Robert Van Lahr. 
* 

CLEVELAND George Kerver. '20. 1381 Granger. Lakewood, 
Ohio. President; Cornelius J. Rnffins', '32, 
308 Euclid Bldg., Secretary. 
Hastening before the impact of on­coming holiday time shatters oar orderly existence and we become bogged by such grave problems as whether to renew Uncle Sam's sub­scription to Cmmtry Gentleman and whether to continue sending a Christ­mas card to that prof who gave us an A in Economics, but pausing long enough to mark the date now: 
THE ANNUAL HOLIDAY DANCE NEW YEAR'S EVE CARTER HOTEL BALLROOM 
Co-chairman Matt Tmdelle and John Begley, well-known promoters both, have richly carved plans for the sort of affairs you've always wanted. Strong committee forces are at work on detail arrangements, assuring an extraordinarily full eve­ning of fun. Publicity man, Lou Hruby, has already found print in two of the three Cleveland dailies. The annual problem of where and how to greet the New Year is well solved. See you all December 31 at the Carter Ballroom! 
"He's still a man!" Let's give it for Geot^e Kozac The name made Cleveland sports news this week. George's John Adams High gridders laid low strong theretofore-undefeat­ed West Tech High to win the city championship at municipal stadium. Assisting George, be it remembered to his honor, is Ed Caldwell, able backfield coach. 
Tom Conley's season at John Car­roll was a definite success despite several small margin defeats; reason: This year's Carroll team with amaz­ing power, rose mightily in contrast with aggregations of past years. Sharing coaching honors are Frankie Gall and Gene Oberst. 
Joey Gavin's Holy Name group rounded out another season, giring and taking in the upper bmcket of local scholastic play. Good work, Joe! 
Another Triumph: Cy Matthews, long time hold-out, is a married man. The bride, Dorothy Kelly, is the daughter of F. D. Kelly, ex.-N.D. man. Cy, you've been told, has an excellent post at National JIalleable. 
Intention to wed has been declared openly and notoriously by Jim Up­richard to Miss Laura Droste of De­troit. 
OIL. Stan Cofall, former Stand­ard Oil Company executive, operates his own Stanco Oil Co. here in town. Pew know that Bill Van Rooy, in ad­dition to his work for Van Rooy Cof­fee, owns and manages a gasoline station out on Lorain Avenue in Pairview Village. At .Gulf Refining is Ed Ryan. It's true about his re­cent promotion. 
SCRAMBLED NAMES: John and Bill Dorr have headquarters for their securitj' business in the Hippodrome Building. Al Lawton, along with the Butlers, Frank Sr., and Joe, is also connected with Lawrence Cook, Inc., security sales. By the wa}% that Lawrence Cook has two brothers, former Clevelanders and N.D. men: Charles Cook with the National Geo­detic Survey Department in Washing­ton, D. C, and Jack Cook of Youngs­town. The latter has been back at school several times this fall visiting a sophomore son. 
Someone wondered whether the brothers O'Neill, Hugh, Steve and Bill, rode one of their many truck lines back to the Southern Cal game. Over there at U.S. truck line, and seldom seen so often since his mar­riage, is Howy Miller, '32. 
You knew, of course, that Ed Carey has his own business. The Cleveland Japanning Company. With all this boycotting, one might wonder about that name. Art Carey is a senior at Harvard Law School. Cou­sin Cleve Carey Continues ably as ad­vertising manager at smart men's store, B. R. Baker's. 
Big Bill Kohl in his last year at St. Mary's Seminarj- promises to be more active if after-ordination finds him stationed in Cleveland. There, too, we're told is Ed Seward. Brother Frank Seward has left Play House work here in Cleveland for script writing away out in Hollywood. 
You'll be glad to learn that Denny CNeiil's boy is coming along fine after a siege with pneumonia. Den­ny's at White Motor where the wheels are still whirring despite this depres­The Notre Dame Alumnus 
sion talk. As architectural designer at W. S. Tyler, Jack Sonnhalter'i latest contribution has been elevator grill work. Al Sommer's haste along Euclid from the Rapid early morn­ings proves his new connection is de­manding. A patent lawyer, like and with his father, is Frank Slough, with offices in the Keith Building. 
We've heard that Joe Daley has left law practice for general insur­ance. Now and then we see Billy Ryan who directs repair and manage­ment of HOLC properties here in Cleveland. Jerry Miller is with the countj' prosecutor and in the same neighborhood Dan Sammon is vdth the police prosecutor. Walter Miller, often seen along Sixth and Superior, is with the East Ohio Gas Company. When searching for something extra special for holiday meals, look up Paul Roberta at his import market at W. 25th an d Lorain. Clete Schneider is looking for a cow and a one-horse cultivator for that farm of his out in Bay Village. 
TRANSIENTS: Paul Castner was here last week on a business trip for his company, Standard Parking Meter of Hartford, Connecticut. Visiting for a few days was Hugh McCauley of Bellefontaine. Art Becvar, here Thanksgiving, identified his employer as the Jeffrj' Manufacturing Com­pany of Columbus. 
New to Cleveland is B. V. McAd­aros, '27, who is manager of Atlantic Commissions Company, East 45th and Berkley Avenue. 
Now that winter's settling down there'll be more of us gathering in the wai-m glow of bar lights at Gri»­anti's or Rohr's, those two places where ever and always, you'll meet an N.D. man or two. Al will give you his usual brand of pep talk on matrimony and late hours, while Chuck will bewail again and again the ultra landscaping back at school. See you there and at the Carter, New Year's (plug). 
-•ind watch out for slivers in your Yule Log! Nick RufBng. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY William A. Hurley. '28. 70 Montrose St. 
Sprin^eld, Mass.. President; Fruicls A. 
Aheam, '27, c.^j Hartford Times, Hartford, 
Conn.. Secretary. 

DALLAS James P. Swift, '24. 1202 Southwestern Ufe 
Bid?., Pallas, President; Francis A. McGul­
louEh, '30, 917 First National Bank Bldz., 
Dallas, Secretary. 

DAYTON Eusrene Mayl, '24, 400 Irvine Ave., Pred­
dent; William Cronin, '29, 418 Grafton Ave., 
Secretary. 
* 

DENVER Robert A. Dick. '29. 930 Marion Street, 
Telephone Bids.. President; Harry Lawrence. 
'29. 1932 Broadway, Secretary. 
December -January 

DETROIT 
Lincoln Wurzer. '35, 758 Atkinson, Presi­
dent: Arthur D. Cronin, '37, 191G0 Wood­
ston Road, Secretary. At the annual election of officers, Lincoln Wurzer, was elected presi­dent; Howard Beechinor, vice-presi­dent; Art Cronin, secretary; and Lo­well Comerford, treasurer. The fol­lowing were elected as trustees, to serve three-year terms: Harry Kelly, Judge Thomas C. Murphy, John Brennan, Charlie Martin. 
A short business meeting followed with Line Wurzer presiding. Plans for the Christmas Dance were dis­cussed, and a committee appointed to work in conjunction with the cam­pus club. 
Harry Kelly has considerable sup­port behind his Manresa Retreat movement and will have something more definite for us next meeting. 
Over 150 enthusiastic Detroi t alumni saw the Notre Dame-SoUth­em California game. Nearly half this number went down on the De­troit Club Special, so ably conducted by Gil Scbaefer. 
The new officei-s will make their first attempt to continue the fine work of Gil Schaefer and his assist­ants at our next meeting, Monday, December 6. 
A. D, Cronin, Jr. 

The Notre Dame Club of Detroit in conjunction with the Detroit Yacht Club, the International Gold Cup Committee and the Detroit Board of Commerce .sponsored a testimonial dinner to Herb Mendelson whose boat "Notre Dame" won both the Gold Cup classic and the President's Cup race. The dinner, which was held on October 18 in the Book-Cadillac Hotel, was attended by over 450 peo­ple including about 100 of our Notre Dame club members. The principal speaker of the evening was our orni Father Hugh O'Donnell, who gave a brilliant talk which was received so enthusiastically that the crowd want­ed more. This was a .fine tribute to Father O'Donnell's ability because at least 25 speakers had preceded him. 
Harry Kelly deserves credit for the fine turn-out of N. D. men. Van Wallace was in from Mt. Clemens. .4.mong those present were Jack Moore, Jim Foren, Marce Verbiest, Jack Higgins, Ed Degree, George Hanlon, Emmett Kelly, Thomas Mc-Kenna, Willard Crotty, Louis Malone, Judge Ernie LaJoie, Ray Kelly, Charles Molz, Dr. Harvey Brown, Judge Thomas Murphy, Jim O'Brien, Urb Hubert, Leo Mclnemey, Charles Martin, Phil Fetz, Dr. William Mul­crone. Line Wurzer, Dr. Stanley In­sley, Jim Sullivan, Art Cronin, Jack Breen, Gus Dorais, Bud Boeringer, and a host of others. Judge Thomas 
December - January The Notre Dame Alumnus 
F. Maher was chairman of the din­ner. 
In addition to the above dinner, the Detroit Club sponsored two spe­cial trains to the Pittsburgh game. Over 600 made the train trip. Lowell Comerford, Emmett Keliy, Jim Foren and Howard Beechinor acted as a committee in putting this across. 
Gil Schaefer. 
* 

DES MOINES 
Honrj- I. Trenkle, '2i. ISO South Booth St.. Secretary. 
DUBUQUE 
C L EnUenU, >16. 321 Bank & InJUnuie* Bide.. Prealdent; Henry L TrenMe. '24. 18t 
S. Booth St., Secretary. 
EASTERN INDIANA 
Thomas A. Cannon. '33. 401 Wyior Bids.. Huncic. lad., Pr^Ident; Alvis B. Granser, ex. '31, 617 S. Jefferson St, Hatford City, Ind.. Secretary. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Leo H. Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem, President; Ernest L. WUhdm, "27, New Jersey Zinc Co., Research Dept., Falmerton, Secretary. 
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA 
Charles J. Wlttman, '31, 621 Schenley Dr.. President: WUliam K. Bayer, '36, 724 W. 10th St, Secretary. 
FLINT (Michigan) 
Stephen J. Eoth, '31. 723 Union Indostrlal Bid e President: Donald F. UacDonald, '31, 1631 W. Court St, Secretary. 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 
Edtrard S. SuUivan, '24, 125 E. SuttenSeld St. President; Maurice J. DeWald, '33, Z41S Huburtus St., Secretary. 
GRAND RAPIDS 
Georfce E. Ludwiff, '25, 328 Glenhaven Ave., 
N. W., Preatdent: Raymond J. Boninl. '27. 607 Atwood. N.E., Secretary. 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
John Clancy, ex. "35, 525 S. Clay Street, Secretary. 
* 

GREATER LOUISVILLE 
John Bannon, *32, 2011 Sherwood Ave.. Louisville. President; Raymond Naber. 'S3, 417 S. Western Parkway. Louisville, Secre­tary. 
GOGEBIC RANGE (Michigan) 
Robert O'Gallaehali, ex. '16. Gosebie Na­tional Bank, Ironwood. President; Francis 
J. Vukovich, *35, Ridee St, Ironwood. MIoh., Secretary. 
HAMILTON, OHIO 
M O. Bums, '86, 338 S. Second St. Presi­dent; Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rentschler Bid?., Secretary. 
*• 

HARRISBURG 
Joseph FarrcII, '16. 32 North 2"th Street Camp Hill, Pa., President: Robert M. John­ston, '33, City Chemist Harrisbure, Pa., Secretory. 
HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-W!«.) 
Joseph A. Lauerman, *31. 1975 Riverside Ave., Marinette, Wis., President; Francis C. Boyce. ex. '32, 1401 First Ave.. S., Escan­aba, Mich.. Secretary. 
HOUSTON 
M. E. Walter, '14, 1702 Stuart Ave., Presi­dent: Raymond B. fCeatinc. '3S, 1810 Ster­lins Bids., Secretary. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
William H. Kriee. '29, 5S58 Forest Lane, President; Francis Laydcn, *36, Indiana Bell Telephone Company. Secretary. 
JACKSON, MICHIGAN 
Walter Docey, '17. 339 W. Morrell St. Pre^ ident: Edward T. O'Neil. '26, Wildwood Apts., Secretary. 
Just to clear the records I wish to inform you that the Jackson group have not affiliated themselves with the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. To prove the point, they held a get-together on the day of the Army-Notre Dame game at the Mead­ow Lark Inn in Jackson. Fifteen graduates and ex-students were in attendance. Walt Ducey, our club president, promised us a few more get-togethers before the expiration of his term, and I certainly hope that he is successful in his promotion in­asmuch as all the boys reported a very enjoyable time. 
Lyman Hill, former vice-president and treasurer of the local club, was recently married' to Miss Mai-garet Keenan. 
E. T. O'Neil. 

JOLIET, ILLINOIS 
Dr. Edward J. Mayer. '27. 301 Ruby St. President; Lawrence J, Dunda, ex. '33. 704 
N. Raynor Ave., Secretary. 
Quite a few of the Joliet club members visited the campus this fall and saw the "Fighting Irish" in ac­tion. Among these were Clarence Wilhelmi, '18, and Bob Baskerville, '31. 
Clarence is the present chairman of the house committee and has had some fine gatherings lately. He and his CO - workers have many more events planned for the next several weeks. Among these is a turkey dinner in the clubrooms the first part of this month. This is one of the combination informal dinners and get-togethers of members and friends held at regular intervals during the year. The annual Christmas party for the children of members and friends will be held on the Tuesday before Christmas. 
Sleighing parties are planned as soon as there is sufficient snow, wind­ing up with dinner and a good time at some neighboring farm. A holi­day dance in the clubrooms is sched­uled between Christmas and New Year's, following which there will be a New Year's Eve party. A ping-pong tournament is now in progress, with all the contestants striving to topple the crown from the brow of the recognized- club champion. Bob Duffy, '31. 
Regular gatherings were held each Saturday afternoon during the foot­ball season where those who did not attend the games would listen in and help themselves to a buffet lunch, too. Our usual meeting periods are Tuesday, Friday, and Saturday eve­nings and Sunday afternoons. 
Dr. T. A. Sheehan, ex. '19, is a new Notre Dame man in our midst. He has been in charge of the optical department at the Boston Store in Joliet for about the past two months. We welcome him to Joliet and our club. We enjoyed his first visit and invite him to come again soon. 
Larry Dunda. 
* 

KANSAS 
Albert J. Gebert '30, U. of Wichita, Wck­ita. Kansas. President; Dan Welchons, '80, 623 Ehn St, Ottwa, Kansas, Secretary. 
KANSAS CITY (MiHouri-Kansas) 
Robert Tyler, '29, 3616 Paseo Blvd., Kuuai City, Mo., President: Charles E. Ueyer, '29, 420 E. Armour Blvd., Kansas Ci^, Uo., Secretary. 
LAPORTE, INDIANA 
Norman E. Duke. '34. 304 Niles St, Presi­dent : Robert E. Quinn. ex. '39. 1401 Monroe St. Secretary. 
LOS ANGELES 
DouElas Daley. '30. 781 Ceres Ave.. Presi­dent: Thomas Ashe. '31. 7110 Middleton Street, Secretary. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
P. E. Burke, '88, SOT Camp St, New Or­leans, IA., President; Cyprian A. Sporl. Jr.. '28, Whitney-Central Bids., New Orleans. La., Secretary. 
* 

MANILA 
Alfonso Ponce Emile. 'OS. Manila. Presi­dent: Gonzalo R. Valdes, '35, 709 San Mar-c^lino. Secretary. 
• 

MEMPHIS 
John S. Montedonico, '35. 327 Eenilworth PI.. President; Theon F. Sobosne, '27. 1072 S. Wellinston St. Secretary. 
MIAMI, FLORIDA 
Vincent C. Giblin. '18. 4103 CoUina Ave.. Miami Beach, President; Daniel J. Lino, ex. '34, 1617 N. W. Ninth Ave.. Miami. Secre­tary. 
* 

MILWAUKEE 
John Oauder. '34, 1219 Vlict St, President; James Corrigan, '35, 1829 N. 69th St, Wau­watosa. Secretary. 
* 

MONTANA 
Leonard D. Regan. '33. Montana Power Co., Great Falls, Secretarj*. 
NEW JERSEY 
Peter J. Quinn, ex. 'S3. 320 Belleville Ave.. Bloomfield. President: Philip Heinle. '35, 76 Oakview Ave., Maplewood, Secretary. 
Pete Quinn welcomed another large crowd at our second meeting of the year. Bill Carter announced the organization of former Notre Dame men now interested in writing of any type. This club, called the Scribblers, is open to all in the metropolitan area, and those interested should contact Bill. 
Joe Moore informed us that plans for the Christmas Dance were well on their way. 
Pete Quinn asked for opinions from the members concerning invit­ing guest speakers to our meetings. This started a verj' lively discussion from the floor, with John Blanda and Bill Smullen leading the debate. We finally decided to drop the matter until a future meeting. 
There was a long discussion about the Army game and tickets for the alTair. You will hear more about this later on, as Dr. Bucky O'Connor was appointed chairman of a committee, consisting of Bill Carter, Dr. Jerry Hayes, Harvey Rockwell, and Andy O'Keefe, to investigate the situation. 
Jim Kehoe won the door prize, a ticket to the Hard Times Dance. This dance was a grand success, and everyone had a very enjoyable eve­ning in old clothes. Many "old" faces were recognized at the meet­ing and the dance, and a few of them were: Bob Phelan, Bill Morilz, Joe Wade, Bob McDonough, Don Dugan, Dan O'Neill, Bob Huetz, Russ Reilly, Bemie Reilly, Jack Fish, Al Alvino, Jack O'fCeefe, Jim Costello, Tom Flynn, Ed Flynn, Toby Cramer, Johnny Neubauer, £d Kirby, Frank Reilly, Bill Farrell, Cliff Sausville, Les Jandoli, Dr. Hayes, Sam Colarus­so, Johnny Dumpert, Jack Barber, and a new member, Al Weil, former­ly of New York. 
Phil J. Heinle. 
* 
NEW YORK CITY 
Leo V. Mcl/aughlin. '32. 70 Pine Street. 
New York City, President: Henry R, Frey, 
'30. 1226 OSnton St.. N. Y. C. Secretary. 
On November 11, 1937, our annual draw of Notre Dame-Army Tickets for the benefit of the Scholarship Fund was held at the Centre Club. The meeting was largely attended. Although this event is held before every Notre Dame-Army game, this year it made news — three Notre Dame men, Arthur Flynn, James F. Reville and John E. Foley won two tickets each. 
At this meeting drawing became so popular that Dan Halpin donated three Lektrolite flameless lighters and a Lektro-Shaver. William Corr won the shaver; Cyril Kelleher, Thomas Dalton and John A. Jordan each won lighters. James Garrigan donated a one-pound tin of Edgeworth tobacco, which was won by Martin V. Callagy. Al Picks donated a leather brief case, 
won by George F. O'Brien. Arthur 
J. Lavery and James Garrigan each 
won a case of Lion beer. 
A good time was had by all at this meeting in preparation for the Notre Dame-Army game and events 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
to come. It had much the touch of 

a campus pep meeting. 
Concerning the game, we all know what fine work Elmer Layden and the boys did. As Arthur E. Patterson of the New York Herald-Tribune vrrote: "The only scare the Army threw at Notre Dame was misspelled-Skaer. He played left guard." 
The club's big event Saturday was the dinner dance held at the Hotel Roosevelt on the Saturday night of the Army game, attended by approximately 300—about 200 came in later for dancing. 
During the course of a delicious meal we had the pleasure of having Alumni President Bill Cotter intro­duce Rev. Michael J. Shea, who gave a rendition of his composition "The Victory March." This gave added zest! It was the first time Father Shea played "The Victory March" in public in 25 years. 
Elmer Layden emerged from his afternoon oilskins to be -with us in the evening. He gave a fine intimate discussion on the boys and the tough­est schedule ever faced by a Notre Dame team. 
Father John MacNamara, '97, who 

has never missed a Notre Dame-Army 
game, took a bow. He came all the 

•way from Mount Clemens, Michigan, for the game. 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, gave a stirring addres s concerning the treasures Notre Dame has on its cam­pus in arts, science, and literary achievements. He spoke of the build­ing program of the near future and stressed the Eockne Memorial. 
Fred Snite, Sr., was present with a party of friends. He was asked to convey the club's best wishes to his son, Fred Snite, Jr., '33, who is now convalescing in Florida, and was as­sured of the club members' prayers by President Leo V. McLaughlin. 
Also present was Ambrose O'Con­nell, assistant to the postmaster gen­eral. 
The club members and their guests danced into the small hours to the tunes of Francis "Bugs" Walther's orchestra winding up with doing the "Big Apple" to the strains of "The Victory March." 
Ed Elsworth just returned from a trip to California and once again joins our ranks. 
The club is now discussing plans for an affair to be held after the Notre Dame-N.Y.U. basketball game. News of this event will appear in this column as soon as arrangements are completed. 
The Notre Dame Clnh of New York wishes to take this opportanity 
December - January 

of extending Christmas greetings to Notre Dame men everywhere! Henry R. Frey. 
Evidence of increasing influence of the local clubs, and evidence that the work of the association last year in combatting subversive influences is bearing fruit are contained in the fol­lowing self-explanatory story from the New York Times. (Similar ac­tion was taken at the National Cath­olic Alumni Federation Convention, in Boston, October 30.) 
Charging tha t Communist and other anti - democratic elements have captured the present Spanish Loyal­ist Government, the Notre Dame Club of New York, composed of 600 alumni of the University of Notre Dame, commended the Spanish In­surgents' cause in resolutions adopt­ed last night at a meeting at the Cen­tre Club, 120 Central Park South. 
Leo V. McLaughlin, lawyer and president of the club, said the organ­izatinon took its stand "in view of efforts by radical-controlled propa­ganda organizations in the United States to split American Catholics on the issue of the Spanish civil war." 
"We want to emphasize to our non - Catholic fellow - Americans," he said, "that the overwhelming major­ity of American Catholics support the principles for which the Spanish Insurgents are fighting — to rescue and preserve Christian civilization in Spain. 
"We are not giving unqualified endorsement to an y Government General Franco may set up. We have no guarantee of what kind it will be. But we do know the athe­istical, anti-religious and anti-demo­cratic government that would prevail in Spain should the so-called 'Loyal­ists' triumph." 
The resolutions follow: 

"Whereas, in Spain a minority movement subsidized by subversive forces from outside has captured the legitimate government in that coun­try and has transferred it into a Communist and anti-democratic re­gime which has violated every funda­mental principle of civil and religious liberty, and 
"Whereas, a movement represent­ing the majority of Spain has arisen to defend that country against an alien ideology and to safeguard the Christian faith and the traditions of an ancient people, and 
"Whereas, in the United States various groups have organized them­selves for purposes of propaganda in favor of the Leftist faction in Spain and against the Nationalist movement of General Franco and have deliber­ately confused the principles of this Leftist faction with the principles of American democracy, and have thus 
December - January The Notre Dame Aiumnus 
misled large sections of our people truly devoted to democratic institu­tions: 
"Therefore, be it resolved, that the Notre Dame Club of New York un­reservedly takes its stand with the Spanish Hierarchy in its condemna­tion of the minority that has out­raged the Christian spirit of the Spanish people; and be it 
"Further resolved, that we com­mend the Nationalist cause which has opposed itself to this minority in order to rescue and preserve Chris­tian civilization on the Iberian penin­sula; and be it 
"Further resolved, that we whole­heartedly condemn the efforts to en­list the Christian forces of this coun­try in aid of a Communist movement which is bent upon the destruction of both belief in God and of democratic institutions, not only in Spain, but throughout the world; and be it 
"Further resolved, that the Notre Dame Club of New York make every effort to present the truth of this po­sition to all sincere believers in God in this country; and be it 
"Further resolved, that copies of these resolutions be sent to each of the eighty-nine University of Notre Dame alumni clubs, to the alumni-and alumnae chapters of other Amer­ican Catholic colleges and universi­ties, to Holy Name Societies, Sodality Unions and other Catholic parish groups, and to Knights of Columbus councils and to other Catholic patri­otic and fraternal organizations in this country and Canada." 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Bernard J. Abroti, '27, Latham Square BIdK.. OaUand. Fraident: FaTiI J. CashinE, 'SI. IKI Centra] Bank Bids.. Oakland. Sec­retary. 
At a recent meeting of the mem­bers of the Notre Dame Club of Northern California, it was agreed that this club would hold an annual Bockne Memorial Eetreat at the fa­mous "El Ketiro" House conducted by the Jesuits at Los Altos, Califor­nia. The time will be the first week in March to coincide with "Rock's birthday, which was on March 4. The Jesuit Fathers are very agreeable to cooperating with us in every way. 
Keene Fitxpatriclc. 

NORTHERN LOUISIANA 
Arthur J. Kane. '31, SOT 'Wilkinson. Shreve­port. Pretldent; J. Richard Nowerr, '49. 1C24 Creawen St.. Shrereport. Secretair. 
NASHVILLE 
Kennedy Jones. '30, Jonea Chemical Co.. Secretary. 
* 

OKLAHOMA 
Joaeph A. Moian. '32. 1611 S. Caraon. Tuba. Frealdent: Marion J. Blake. '33. Natknal Bank of Ttiln Bids., Tulia. Secretary. 
OREGON 
Charles J. Hirschbuhl. '22. 2130 N. York, Portland. President; Harold J. Haratick, "25. 633 N.E. Everett. Portland. Secretary. 
PARIS 
Louis P. Harl. "16. Paris Office. New York Herald-Tribune. Paris, France, President. 
PEORIA 
Al Gury. Jr.. '28, 530 W. Ridiwoods Blvd.. President; John Sloan, '33, 233 N. Tlnder­hill. Secretary. 
A regular dinner-meeting was held November 19 by the Notre Dame Club of Peoria at the University Club. We were fortunate in securing as speakers Mr. Crowell and Mr. Murphy of the Caterpillar Tractor Company, who told us about the training school .sponsored by Cater­pillar in which 800 students are en­rolled and receive classroom instruc­tion in courses lasting as long as four years. Mr. Crowell also related his experiences at Notre Dame and other universities throughout the country in his searches among graduating classes for future Caterpillar men. 
Father Harrison of Brimfleld showed 
us some interesting moving pictures he had taken, of which a professional photographer might have been well proud. 
Plans have been made for our an­nual Christmas dance. It is to be held at the Jefferson Hotel, Decem­ber 28. AI Welzenbach is to be chairman and is assisted by Art Wide, Dick Delaney and Gene White, the latter as undergraduate represen­tative. As is traditional with us, it will be a cabaret style dance. 
Bill Motsett has been appointed chairman of the next dinner-meeting, which will be held in the early part of December. 
John Sloan, Jr. 

PHILADELPHIA 
William E. Cooney. '32. 5725 McMahon Ave., President: A. J. Wackerman. 'SS, 5356 Chew St.. Secretary. 
PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. J. HDkert. '22. 402 Title & Trust Bldz.. Phoenix. President. 
ROCHESTER (Naur York) 
D. Bernard Hennessey, '34. 119 Bedford St., President: Gerard Farrell. '34. 447 Thnntoo Road. Secretary 
Our Army game ticket activity was a very successful. We cleared about ?190, of which ?150 was im­mediately placed in the scholarship fund. Glen Hatch and Dick Tobin established themselves as the super men of the club. The former won himself a pair of tickets to the game, and the latter was a close second. 
All the active members of the club have shown great enthusiasm in this regard. Later this year we may do something else to raise money for the cause — with Tobin and Hatch carrying the ball, how can we help but make huge gains in our quest for scholarship money? 
The club was very disappointed when Father O'Hara changed his plans in regard to visiting Kochester where he was invited for the installa­tion of our new bishop. 
I went to dinner with Joe Glen-non, '34, on the Friday night before the Army game. Joe has recently been changed by Commercial Sol­vents Corporation from its Terre Haute office to the West Orange, New Jersey, district where he is a salesman. This was a big advance. Joe is doing very well—of course. 
We know that this is a Rochester club column and not meant to be one for the class of '34. However, we would like to congratulate Russ Leonard, Bill Motsett, Frank Mata­vosky and Norb,Schenkel who were recently married. Also congratula­tions to Wells Robison. 
We want to thank the secretary of the Cleveland Club for his informa­tion in regard to those stars: Bob Colgan, Cocker Caldwell, and Brute Begley. But we wonder whatever happened to such riff-rafF as Jug Venables and Coach McMonagle? 
To get back near Bochester, I met a fellow from Wolcott, New York, the other day. He told me that Stew Oabom is selling insurance there and doing very well. 
If by any chance Stan Rensberger, '34, whose home town is South Bend, but who is now working for Singer Sewing Machine Company somewhere in South America, should read this stuff, I wish he would send me his address. 
If anyone should be in the market for a vessel of canal size, your cor­respondent will be glad to take the order. He is employed by Dolomite Marine Corporation of Bochester, New York, and right now is sliding down the Hudson in a new 300-foot tanker. 
Jerry Farrell. 

Inasmuch as onr enterprising sec­retary, Gerry Farrell, is down in New York completing a vessel for the Od­enbach interests, it falls upon this in­dividual to keep you informed about activity of the Notre Dame boys in these parts. 
Deserving of prime importance in this communication is a note about the splendid succeiis of our First An­nual Communion Scinday. It was ob­served on December 5 at St. Mary's Church. The boys were called upon to attend the 8 o'clock Mass, and, sure enough, they did, 20 strong. True, there were a few drooping eye­lids, but really thee were no apolo­gies to make when Communion time 
The Notre Dame Alumnus December - January 
came around. Of all the acti^-ities that we have conducted in the recent past there have been none which have revived more pleasant, more whole­some, or more edifying memories of Notre Dame. It can be seen that our group in this fair Flower City is real­ly keeping faith with the sacred tradition that is Notre Dame. 
After Mass the group trudged Caf fashion over to the Coffee Shoppe, another Odenbach interest. There amongst the ravenous wolves could be seen Harold McCabe, '22; Paul 
Barker, '37; Ray Margrett, '35; John Odenbach, '36; Pete Connelly, '33; Bill Bell, '25; Frank Morrison, '32; Marty Bayer, '36; Gerry Smith, '26; Don Sconfietti, '37; Arnold Morrison, '35; Bill Jones, '32; John Norton, '36; John Desmond, '35; John Hur­ley, '37; Bernie Hennessy, '34. 
Plans are nearly complete for our annual Christmas Dance which is to be held at the Rochester Club on Monday, December 27. The under­graduate gi'oup from Rochester is co­operating with us in this endeavor, and it is expected that we will reach our season's social high at this func­tion. 
A scholarship committee, consist­ing of Joe Flynn, Art Curran, Harold 
Burke, Bill Merriman, and Harold 
McCabe, has been delegated the re­sponsibility of selecting a worthy young man to be the recipients of this club award. 
Flower City Flashes: the Larry Carpenter-Florence Foster connubial combine is now happy history; Jim Gleason and Pony Sheehan announce bundles from heaven; the i-est of us dream on in desuetude. 
D. Bernard Hennessy. 
» 
RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. 
Thomas Collins. '28, 166 New Boston Road, 
Fall River. Mass., President: John Mc­
Lau;;hlin, '34, Sneech Pond Road, Cumber­
land Hill. K. I., Secretarj-. 
At each meeting new faces come into our midst. On October 26 at Fall River we had Walter Goff, '28, inquiring about some of his class­mates and reporting himself to be getting along fine as an agent for a life insurance company in Pall River. 
Bob Powers, '29, is promoted to chief accountant for the Narragan­sett Power Company, Providence. Then, too, Frank O'Neil, '32, put in an appearance and told us about his recent marriage, and advancement as WPA investigator in southern Mas­sachusetts. 
Among the old stand-bys were: Leo McAloon, '30 — He surely was the man about the state this fall for his wife tells me his phone was con­tinually ringing with the requests, "Have you any Army tickets, Leo?" As well as being tied up with the Footbal l Officials -A.ssociation in Rhode Island, he is chairman of the State Embalming Board in the De­partment of Health. 

John Fitzgerald, '34—Fitz is head of the maintenance department for 
U.E.R. in Providence. 
John McKiernan, '34—^Again con­gratulations are in order, for Mac passed the R. I. bar with honors, and presently is in the law office with his uncle, one of the state's leading at­torneys. By virtue of Mac's legal standing, we have elected him unani­mously, our legal adviser sans d'ar­gent! 
Torn Collins, '28—^His job seems to take him into N.Y.C. quite often. Hard to get anj-thing out of our president. However, maybe in the next issue, I'll have more dope about him. 
Andy McMahon, '35 — You may rest assured Andy is doing very well by himself. He accepted a federal position as auditor and vacated his state job. We hope he's around these parts to lend his support for the Christmas Dance. 
By the way the Notre Dame Guild in R. I, has certainly brought fame and increased interest in the Alma Mater. They are holding their third annual Bridge and Fashion Show at the Biltmore Hotel, Providence, De­cember 4. President Tom Collins, of the alumni club, delegated John Mc­Kiernan, Bob Powers, Leo McAloon, and Gene Moreau as aides for the af­fair. Incidentally, Gene Moreau, '31, has risen to great heights in the Pro­bation Department, during the past two years. 
If you should see Jim Leonard, John "Red" Tobin, Charlie Huisking or Ray Morrisey in yaur travels, tell them I'd like to visit these parts, and inspect my plant. 
Johnny McLaughlin. 
* 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) 
Josepli Bittdorf, ex. 'S3, 105 16tli St, Ster­
ling. IlL, President: Edward SnUivaa, ex. 
'33, Amboy, ni.. Secretary. 
* 
SAN ANTONIO 
Wmiam V. Didmann. Jr., 'iS, 107 Thdnu 
Drive, President; Edward G. Conroy,/iS. 
204 E, Craiir PL, Secretary, . : 
SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) 
Thomas F. Van Aarie. '21, Standard Oil Om. 
SiEinsw, Mich., Pmident: VllUam C Hor­
ley, '2S, 117 Cherry St. Sasinaw, Hldi., 
Secretary. 
SANDUSKY. OHIO 
E. H. Savord, '12, Box ISS, Precidest: 
Charles U. Honch, '25, 925 W. WasUnstoa 
St, Secretary. 
. The regular meeting of the club was held on Wednesday, November 3 in the Rieger Hotel. Attendance was 13 members and a lively evening was enjoyed. Reports of various com­mittees were heard and discussed and, particularly, that of membership, of which I will give you more later. 

After the regular business meeting a 30-nunute reading of prepared mat­ter treating with "Communism in Spain" was given by Attorney Thom­as Murray. This was Well received and every member expressed a desire to have a continuation of this subject at subsequent meetings. The com­mittee in charge of this part of the program was instructed to continue same until notice of a stop is given. 
At a previous meeting it was deemed feasible to invite Notre Dame alumni and former students in the vicinity of 25 miles of this cit>' to join our club. A motion was made to this effect and caiTied. The secre­tarj' made a start on Nonvalk, Ohio, and, though their potential is small, they responded as a start bj' having two men at the last meeting. Al Foos, '25, and William Pickett, for­mer student, were the men present and both expressed enthusiasm at be­ing able to join our group. Too, they have pledged themselves to round up the others for the next meeting which will be held on December 8. 
My next assignment is Elyria, Ohio, and I intend to contact Richard Horan in the verj' near future to see what can be done about getting the Elyrians organized. Success or fail­ure will be reported later. 
The annual St. Mary's testimonial football banquet will be held on De­cember 1, and Harry C. Baujan, '17, head coach at the University of Day­ton, is the principal speaker and honored guest for the affair. Con­sequently we are out to get our por­tion of the show by being on hand at a specially resei-ved table with all the trimmings. We expect at least 20 members and their wives at the table. 
The local coach is a former foot­ball pupil of Harry Baujan, so natur­ally we see the so-called Notre Dame system as often as they play and Lee Zierolf has had a fine season, Zierolf being the coach at St. Mary's. 
C. M. Mouch. 
* 

SOUTHWESTERN CONNECTICUT 
Jidin H. Unrphy, '27, 86 liberty St, Bridce­
port President: Edward P. Honahan, 'S4, 
304 Beeehraont Ave.. Bridgeport Secretary. 
* 

SPRINGFIELD. ILLINOIS 
Charles G. Corcoran, '17, 1134 W. Monroe 
St. President:.Paul D. McConnell, '32, 120 
S. Walnnt St, Secretary. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Louis C. Chapleau. '30, 301 Union Trust 
Bids.. South Bend. Ind., President; Qarence 
Rardine, '25, South Bend Tribune, South 
Bend, Ind., Secretary. 

The Annual Football Banquet, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, will be held 
December - January The Notre Dame Alumnus 
in the University Dining Hall early in January. Club president Louis 
J. Chapleau has made the following appointments of committee chairmen: general chairman, Thomas J. Hickey; arrangements, William E. Voorj pro­gram, James E. Armstrong; finance, 
R. Floyd Searer; publicity, Joseph E. Pelritz; guests, B. J. McCaffery; tick­ets, Herbert E. Jones. 
Although the programs on previous football banquets have been of stel­lar quality, the galaxj' of celebrated coaches, entertainers and public fig­ures who have accepted Chairman Mickey's invitation to be present bids fair to make this the outstanding pro­gram of all time. The banquet will take as its theme the Universitj-'s cel­ebration of its 50th anniversary in college football competition. 
More than 350 guests attended the football smoker in the Oliver Hotel Rotaiy Room the Friday night before the Pittsburgh - Notre Dame game. Pat IManion was in top form as toastmaster. Pictures of the Notre Dame-JIinnesota game and talks by Coach Elmer Layden and visiting newspaper men, and by Byron Kana­ley and Angus McDonald, made this one of the outstanding programs of this year's smokers. B. J. McCaffery and George B. Sheehe were co-chair­men of the aff'air. 
The final smoker of the year was held Friday night preceding the Southern California California game in the Rotarj' Room of" the Oliver Hotel. Francis Jones acted as toast­master and called on -visiting news­paper men and coaches. Many of the Old Timers, present to help the Uni­versity celebrate its 50th anniver­sary in college football, were guests of the club. Coach Elmer Layden was the principal speaker and gave some sidelights on the Notre Dame-Army game as well as the 1938 foot­ball schedule. Willard Wagner and Burton Toepp were co-chairmen. 
Clarence W. Harding. 
* 

ST. LOUIS 
Dr. Matthew W. Weis. ex. "23. 330 Metro­
politan Bid;;.. President; David J. Rielley, 
Jr., '30. 214 S. Menunec. Qayton. Mo., Sec­
retary. 
* 

SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
Donald Slieehy, '33, 104 Glahn Ave., Syrm­
ciise. President: William S. Cate. '27, 138 
Hardins Place, Syratmse, Secretary. 
TIFFIN. OHIO 
C I. ScHznidt. 'II. 280 Uelmore St., Presi­
dent : Fred J. Wagner, "29, 152 Sycamore 
St., Secretary. 
* TOLEDO Edward J. HaKcrty, '28, 638 WoodvlUe, 
President; Raymond L, Tillm&n. *25, 2027 
Brctton Pt., Secretary. 
TRi-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) Georse Uhlmeyer, '23, Peoples' Light Co.. 
HoIIne. HI.. President: dmer W. Besten, 
•27, 1711 W. Sixth St, Davenport, Iowa. 
Secretary. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) John Donnelly, '34. 37 Washington Street, 
Bingbamton, President; John Murphy. '35, 
43 Knceland Ave., Binghamton, Secrelaiy. 
The latter part of August the an­nual summer outing was enjoyed at the summer home of our genial pres­ident, John Donnelley. The affair was exceptionally well attended by members, students and prospective students of Notre Dame, along •with several distinguished guests. 
Several informal gatherings were held during the recent football sea­son. The broadcast of the Minne­sota game, of course, was the high light. Nearly 100 percent club at­tendance was reported at the J^my game, this group being augmented by several hundred local fans who made the trip to New York. 
The annual Christmas dance will be held at the -A.rlington Hotel, Bing­hamton, December 28 under the joint sponsorship of the alumni and cam­pus club. Final arrangements were completed last week. 
Following is an excerpt from a local paper: 
"Rev. James Connerton, a Holy 
Cross Father from Notre Dame, will preach the funeral sermon for Father Dwyer." Rev. Ambrose M. Dwyer, pastor of St. Patrick's Church in Binghamton, died suddenly while at­tending a banquet in the Arlington Hotel, Tuesday evening, September 28, given in honor of Thomas H. Mangan, new chancellor of the State Board of Regents. Father Dwyer had sen'ed the Triple Cities for 33 years. Bishop Walter A. Foery, hun­dreds of priests, and 3,000 people at­tended the funeral. 
Here is the low-down on some of the boys whom I meet frequently: 
Ted Griffin, '29, after annexing the singles championship in the an­nual Binghamton Tennis Club tour­nament, was appointed to the Broome County Board of Elections. 
John Donnelley, '34, is director of the National Youth Administration, Broome County. And while mention­ing that governmental agency I might add that Jerry Molinari, '35, holds a similar position in neighboring Ot­sego County. 
Joe Conlon, '35, after a sojourn with Technicolor in Hollywood, now holds the position of assistant chem­ist with a' dye firm in Rensselaer, New York. His brother. Bob, ex '36, the life of the party, travels for Dr. Kilmer & Co. in the southwest. 
Pete Wacks, '30, one of our bright young attorneys, is with the law firm of Chemin & Gold in this city. His brother. Jack, '35, is associated with their father in the hotel business. 
Joe Knapp, '35, from up Sidney way, has recently joined the account­ing department of the Zuber-Texaco Oil Company with offices in Geneva, New York (Red Margrett, please note). 
Joe Hunt, ' 22, our ex. prexy, travels for Columbia Gas & Electric Company in this territory. Stew Osbom, '34, is with the same com­pany. 
Leo Conlon, ex. '34, resides in En­dicott. New York, keeping busy in the Sales Department of the Endicott-Johnson Corporation. 
Regie McNamara, '33, has himself a new car so, apparently, all is well with the State Parks Commission as far as Regis is concerned. 
Bill Yeager, '34, toils for Agfa Ansco Corporation, as does Jimmie Nolan, ex. '35. 
The Hogan Boys —Bill, '32, and Jim, '34, are members of the faculty of Binghamton Central High. Inci­dentally, Bill joined the ranks of the benedicts last summer and his honey­moon itinerary included a stop at N.D. 
Bill Ayres, '34, afte r handling sports on The Binghamton Sun, has risen to the p'ost of city editor on the same sheet. 
As for the Norwich boys — Jim Coleman, '27, is corporation counsel in that city. Bob Byrnes, '33, city engineer; and Bob Lannon, ex. '35, (he, too, is in politics) is serving in 
the law offices of Jame* FUnnagan. 
John Murphy. 
* 

TRI-STATE (lnd.-lll..Ky.) E Brown Miller. '24, Southern Commercial 
Corp., Citizens Bank Bldg.. Evansville. Ind., 
President: Dr. Wm. 3. Endress, '25. 301 
Grant Street, Evans\'iUe, Ind., Secretary. 
TUCSON, ARIZONA 
Vincent Hengeshach. ex.'27, 1710 E. 2ad St.. 
Tocson. President: Ted A. WItz, ez.'2>. Box 
628, Tncson, Seeretaiy. 
* 

TWIN CITIES (MinnesoU) Genid F. Conway. *32. David. Xnc, First 
National Bank Bide., St. Paid, President: 
A. K. Sullivan, '27, 264 Lowry Mescal Aits 
Bldg.. St. Paul, Secretary. 
UTAH 
Raymond R. Brady. '24, 206 Keams Bids.. 
Salt Lake City, Preddent: CyrO Baib«te, 
19. 64 F. St., Salt take City. Seentaiy. 
UTICA, NEW YORK Dr. John F. Edley, '22, Peoples Gas & Elee­
trie Bldg., President: JoHpk W. VUIea. 
'31, 1621 Keilson St, Secretary. 
WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) Paul Kemiedy, '24, Templeton, ind., Pzvsi­
dent, Emmett Fcrgnaoa, *S2, Wallace Bids., 
Lafayette; Ihd., Seeretaiy. 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT John Bobinaoa. '2S; S2 Funlagbm A-n.. 
Pnddent; Jame* X. HoaaitaB. 17. M 
Ayer St.. Secretaiy. 
86 The Notre Dame Alumnus December, 1937 
WASHINGTON, D. C Pial Bcretr, '27. 1833 New Hampshire Ave., 
N. W., Preiident: This club engineered an informal get-together on November 17, at which plans were made for the an­
nual meeting for election of officers to be held December 15. 
Those in attendance at the last gathering, including the eminen t newswriter and commentator, Fred­eric William Wile, voted in favor of instituting an annual dues system of one dollar per year per member. The club accordingly will, for the first time in its histoi-y, embark upon this policy. Tentative plans have been formulated for the annual winter dinner dance to be held in either January or February. 
Paul Beretz. 

WEST VIRGINIA Vincent Reishman. 'SB. 1217 Lewis St. 
Charleston. President; TVilliani Eenne^r, *34, 
714 State St., Cbarieston, Secretai;. 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
D. M. "Turic" Ueinert, '28, 85 Grand Are.. 
Etna. Pa., President; Bernard W. Conroj, 
'30, 1109 Kenneth Ave., New KensinEtim. 
Pa., Secretary. 

WESTERN WASHINGTON Jansea M. Phelan, ei- '17, University of 
Wasbinston, Seattle. President: Enunett G. 
Lenihan, '15, 1405 Hoge Bldg., SeatUe, 
Secretary. 

WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA Balph Jorden, '26. Brideeport, Ohio. Presi­
dent: lico J. Kletzly. '31. 10 Zone St.. 
•Whedinsr, Secretary. 

WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME Sister ElizatKth Seton. S.C., Saint Mary's 
GolleKe, Hdy Cross. Ind., President; Sister 
U. Anselice. B.VJI., St. Joseph Convait. 
Ht. Carmel. Dnbnqne, Iowa, Secretary. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO John Koran. '29. 1348 Qninn. President; 
CbmxitM Coaliwa. '31, 463 Madera Ave., 
Secretary. 

T937 Legal Directory 
(Additions and Changes) 
CALIFORNIA 

Los Angeles 
CASS, Charles S., LL.B.. 30 1225 Citizens National Bank Building 1437 12lh Avenue 
NEW MEXICO 

Albuqaerque 
LUJAN, Louis C LL.B., 74 Cromwell Building 

NEW YORK Rye 
BARBER. Richard J.. A.B„ 31 Barber & McCulIough 11 Third Slreel 
McCULLOUGH, F. S, ex. 31 Baiber & McCulIough 11 Third Slreel 
RHODE ISLAND 

Providence 
McKIERNAN, John S, A.B., 34 McKieman, McEIroy & Going 1231 Industrial Trust Bldg. 291 Dudley Slreel 
ATHLETICS 
(Continued from Page 76) 
Notre Dame, 6; Pittsburgh, 21 

This started out like a repetition of the Minnesota game. Notre Dame was tired, from ha\'ing done the Iron Man act two weeks running, but that didn't seem to matter as the Irish tackles and guards eluded Pitt mouse­trap plays, Irish ends turned in Pan­ther sweeps and reverses, and an alert secondary performed its chores brilliantly. The half ended at 0 to 0. In the third quarter, the Irish, as a result of a poor Panther kick, pressed into Pitt territory. Suddenly Jack McCarthy started off to his right on what looked like an end run. He wheeled and tossed a pass to Andy Puplis, who had sneaked off to the left, and Puplis streaked down the middle of the field ^to score. He missed the placement for the extra point. The Irish dug in to defend this lead, but the afore-mentioned pass and two plunges gave the Pan­thers the taste of blood, and they leaped to the slaughter. Harold Steb­bins swept his left end on a tricky reverse of one long touchdown ran, and Frank Patrick, in the closing minutes, cracked straight through center for 21 yards and the final score, Souchak adding all the extra points. On the Stebbins reverse, the left side of the line did not charge. Apparently signals had been missed. Goldberg had the ball, racing toward the right sideline, Stebbins ahead of him. Suddenly Stebbins turned and wheeled back across the field to the left. Chuck Sweeney said, "I saw the play coming, but just couldn't move." He had previously piled up single­handed several power plays aimed right at him, both straight smashes and reverses—so you can get an idea of the weary condition of the Irish at this point. The play itself is one that has fooled many a professional team. It either works for a beautiful gain, or if something fails to jell, it results in a miserable loss, for the ball-carrier sweeps back nearly ten yards behind the scrimmage line with no protection except the deception in­herent to the play. The game con­cluded the present series with the Panthers, and, in case anyone wants to bet, the final standings for the all time series are 5 victories apiece and a tie. We get a lot of letters about this same element in the Nebraska series. The result was the same, 5-5-1. 
Notre Dame, 7; Armr, 0 

Some 75,000 or more fans — all those out of the 81,000 who bought tickets and were willing to sit in a driving, misting rain for three hours —saw what will probably rank as the most decisive 7 to 0 victory in foot­ball history when the Irish played 
their 24th game in 25 years with Army. The game's only touchdown resulted from three successive smash­es by Ed Simonich from the Cadet 14-yard line, with Chuck O'Reilly, shock troop quarterback kicking his third extra point of the season in as many attempts, from placement. The touchdown was preceded by Ed Bein­or's recovery of an Army fumble on the 14-yard line and a fruitless foray into the Cadet line by Ennio Arboit, senior right halfback. The Irish threw away no fewer than seven scoring chances, -while the Cadets just didn't get any chances from a tight Notre Dame defense. 
Notre Dame, 7; Northwestern, 0 

The fine Irish hand of Chuck Sweeney, plus the bulky frame of Al Shellogg brought about this victory for Notre Dame. Shellogg rushed one of Jefferson's punts, Sweeney plucked it out of the ^ntry air on the 3-yard line, and stepped across the goal line unmolested, Puplis add­ing the extra point. The Irish attack bogged down in several spots in this game, too, while the defense was holding the Wildcats pretty well in check, but it was too cold for anyone to care—as long as Notre Dame won. The fine play of several Wildcat soph­omores reminds us, though, that while Notre Dame loses eight regu­lars and 20 of the first 33 men by graduation, each of Notre Dame op­ponents, with the possible exception of Navy, comes back next year in better shape than last. Kansas, which tied Nebraska, loses four regulars. The other newcomer, Georgia Tech, had a fine season, and promises to be nearly as tough as the Pitt team it replaces on the schedule. 
Notre Dame, 13; Southern Cal, 6 

Notre Dame closed its 49th season in 50 years since the introduction of football here in 1887 by putting on a good old golden jubilee finish. While the Old Timers from 1905 to 1910 inclusive watched admiringly, 
S.C. hopped off to a 6-point lead on a pass, Lansdell to Hibbs. The Irish tied it up when Puplis, finally con­vinced that he could run from punt formation, scampered 58 yards for a score. His conversion was blocked. Then, with two minutes left, Motts Tonelli was sent in for Ed Simonich, who was taken with the miseries and removed. Tonelli promptly hit the tired Trojan right tackle, George, on a reverse, and in one of the season's finest exhibition of elusiveness, went 70 yards before Owen Hansen caught him from behind with a sensational tackle. A 5-yard penalty moved the ball from the 13 to the 8, and Tonelli, on the same reverse, cracked over for the touchdown. This time Puplis added the placement, the score be­came 13 to 6, and two minutes later the season was over. 
December - January The Notre Dame Alumnus 
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Eileen Fitzgerald and Frank Joseph Kelly, '28, Lee, Massachusetts. 
Miss Eose Mary Corley and Paul 
F. Koprowski, '31, St. Louis. 
Miss Marguerite Lyons and James 
J. Kearney, '31, Chicago. 
Marriages 
CoiTcction — An announcement in the November ALUXINUS left the im­pression that Earl William Brieger, '31, and Miss Regina Hegarty had been married on October 19, 1937. The actual date was October 19, 1935. 
Miss Mercedes Ugarte and An­thony F. Gonzales, '25, were married November 20 in Manila. 
Miss Jeanne O'Connell and Frank Joseph Mootz, '27, were married October 19 in Indianapolis. 
Miss Alice Veronica Danicich and William Blakely Jones, '28, were married November 17 in Washington, D.C. 
Miss Helene Marie Host and James 
T. Canizaro, '28, were married Octo­ber 28 in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Margaret Cecelia Tieman and Dr. E. T. Yorke, '30, took place November 24 in New­ark, New Jersey. 
Miss Grace Kathryn Brugger and Thomas F. Farrell, ex. '30, were mar­ried in South Bend, October 30. 
Miss Celeste O'Brien and Dr. Rich­ard Clark Benkendorf, '31, were mar­ried in the Log Chapel, November 27. 
Miss Anna Timlin and James Mar­tin Trotter, '32, were married in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Marie Samson and John P. Medo, ex. '33, were married Novem­ber 20 in Niles, Michigan. 
Miss Lavila Jane Goble and James Myron Helme, ex. '34, were married October 16 in Chicago. 
Miss Agnes Sobatske and Michael Francis Wiedl, Jr., '34, were married in the Lady Chapel, Notre Dame, on November 25. 
Miss Mary Virginia Marinier and John Louis Ruppel, '34, were married October 24, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Madeline Chizar and Gilbert Robert Moty, '36, were married No­vember 25 in the Lady Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Mary F. La-Salle and Peter W. Kem, '37, took place in Chicago, November 11. 
Miss Charlie Booth and F. Michael Carmody, '15, were married in Sep­tember in Shreveport, Louisiana. 
Miss Eunice Boland and James S. Foren, '22, were married November 27 in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Viola Ilelene Rosenbaum and 
Louis Joseph Marger, ex. '31, Were 
married, November 26 in South Bend. 
Miss Jeannette Gerson and Fred­erick Karl Baer, '33, were married November 27 in South Bend. 
Miss Hildegarde Bergmann and Charles W. Dohnaiek, '37, were mar­ried November 26 in South Bend. 
Miss Zula Carrico and Joseph F. Harrington, ex. '32, were married November 26 in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Births 
A daughter, Nancy Jo, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. F. S. Farrington, '20, on July 9, in South Bend. 
A son, Roger Hamilton, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Gerald J. Hoar, '21, December 1, in South Bend. 
A son, Peter, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John P. McKenna, '25, on Au­gust 15, in New York City. 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul D. Hoeffler, '25, announce the birth of a son, Paul II, November 1, in Buffalo, New York. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Tohin, ex. '25, announce the birth of a son, Richard Walsh, Jr., October 14, in Cincinnati. 
Mr. and Mrs. Harry M. Biedka, '27, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Patricia Eileen, November 15, in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Hamilton, 
'28, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Kathleen .A.nn, September 19, in New York City. 
Sir. and Mrs. Lawrence W. Englert, 
ex. '28, announce the birth of a daughter, Teresa Barbara, October 2, in Tulsa, Oklahoma. 
Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Shipacasse, '30, announce the birth of a daughter. Sue Ann, August 20, in Cleveland. 
A son, John, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John A. Bitter, Jr., '30, October 9, in San Antonio, Texas. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Gerharz, '32, September 18, in Joliet, Illinois. 
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Roche, '34, announce the birth of a son, October 15, in West New Brighton, Long Is­land, New York. 
Mr. and Mrs. James H. Gleason, '34, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Judith .^n , October 8, in Lima, New York. 
Mr. and Mrs. George T. Weher, Jr. 
ex. '30, announce the birth of a daughter, Christine, November 19 in Olney, Illinois. 
Oeofhs 
Francis P. Garvan, LL.D., '36, a devoted friend and generous bene­factor of the University, died of pneumonia in his New York City home on November 7. 
Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., pres­ident of the University, was deacon at the funeral Mass for Mr. Garvan in St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York, on November 10. William E. Cotter, president of the Alumni Association, officially represented the alumni. Sur­viving are Mrs. Garvan, three sons and three daughters. 
Former assistant attorney general and former alien property custodian, Mr. Garvan was the founder and head of the Chemical Foundation, Inc., oragnized by him at the request of President Woodrow Wilson. Long a champion of the economic indepen­dence of the United States, Mr. Gar­van became interested in Notre Dame when it was announced that the late Father Nieuwland has discovered the basic elements of synthetic rubber. This rubber, Mr, Gairan felt, would free the United States from the dom­ination of a British-Dutch rubber monopoly. 
In admiration for the work of Father Nieuwland, Mr. Garvan estab­lished at Notre Dame the Julius A. Nieuwland Memorial Foundation for Chemistry and Allied Sciences. .\t the 1936 Commencement Mr. Garvan delivered the address for the lajring of the cornerstone of the new Biol­ogy Building. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus December - January 
Matthew J. Kenefick, '07, 51 years old, died in his native Michigan City, Indiana, on November 14 a few hours after he suffered severe injuries in an automobile accident at one of the citj^'s street intersections. 
An outstanding attorney in Michi­gan City ever since his graduation from Notre Dame, Mr. Kenefick was also active and prominent in Demo­cratic politics and in civic affairs. He is survived by Mrs. Kenefick, a daugh­ter and a son. 
William A. Miner, '22, attorney in Endicott, New York and foi-mer •vil­lage counsel there, died recently after an illness of tsvo weeks, according to word reecived from Tom Murphy, '35, of Binghamton, New York, sec­retary of the Triple Cities club. Bill was a brother of the late Rev. Joseph Mner, C.S.C, and an uncle of Joe Knapp, '35. 
Alfred J. Capitell, '35, of Belmont, Massachusetts, a flying cadet at Kelly Field, San Antonio, Texas, died on November 15 soon after the pursuit plane he was fiying crashed into a tree. The accident was attributed to extremely poor fljnng weather. 
Al had entered his training in the United States Army air corps last February and would have finished the course next February. He is sur­vived by his parents. Burial was in Waverly, Massachusetts. 
James J. Walsh, '30, BrookljTl, New York, died on July 31 after a prolonged illness which had necessi­tated retirement from his teaching dutie s at Brooklyn Preparatoiy school. A graduate of Brooklyn Prep, Jim had joined the faculty there soon after he finished at Notre Dame. He later got his Master's de­gree from Columbia Universitj-. 
Matthew J. Murphy, of the class of 1875, a resident of Glen Ridge, New Jersey, was instantly killed on November 23 in Montclair, New Jer­sey, when he was struck by a through express train as he was hurrying to the Erie station. A clipping concern­ing the accident was thoughtfully sent to the ALU.MXUS by Keman Wingerter, '26. Mr. Murphy is sur­vived by three sons and a daughter. 
Humbert A. "Wop" Berra, of Mur­physboro, Illinois, a Notre Dame stu­dent from 1915 to 1921, died on August 2, according to a recent note from his father. There were no de­tails. A widely popular and color­ful figure on the campus, "Wop" was one of the most asked-about and talked-about former students. A year ago he had attended a St. Louis club meeting at which Elmer Layden was the chief speaker. 
Edward A. Walsh, Jr., '28, former varsity pitcher, died in Meriden- Con­necticut, on October 31 after suffer­ing with an acute heart ailment in­duced by chronic rheumatism. Son of the famous big league pitcher of other days, Ed had tried out twice with the Chicago White Sox, his fa­ther's old team, and had played in the Pacific Coast league. He retired from baseball to become a hotel man­ager. 
Surviving Ed are his wife, his father and his brother. Bob, ex. '29, also a former varsity pitcher at Notre Dame. 
Attorney Thomas F. O'Meara, '02, West Bend, Wisconsin, died recent­ly, according to the word forwarded to the ALUMNUS by Clement C. Mitchell, '02, of Chicago, one of Mr. O'Meara's closest friends. Widely prominent and respected in legal cir­cles, Mr. O'Meai-a was the oldest pi-acticing attorney in West Bend. His memory was honored at a special gathering of la«-yers in the circuit court there. 
Two of Air. O'Meara's sons, Thom­as F., '33, and James P., '35, are graduates of Notre Dame. Another son, Stephen, is at present a junior in the Universitj'. A part of Mr. Mitchell's letter will be found under the 1902 class news. 
Lucien P. Locke, ex. '21, 37 years old, a resident of Greenwich, Con­necticut, died in Jacksonville, Flor­ida, on December 2 after a long ill­ness. Word of his death was thought­fully sent to the ALUMNUS by Jim Sanford, '15. Mi-s. Locke and two sons sunive. Mr. Locke was vice-president of Outdoor Advertising, Inc., New York City. 
Until 1930 Mr. Locke was an ac­count executive in Chicago with the advertising agencies of Enrin, Wasey & Co. and Williams & Cunnyngham. He then became advertising director of the Ethyl Gasoline Corporation in New York City. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sym­pathy to Francisco Gaston, '02, and Eduardo Gaston, ex. '08, upon the death of their brother; Harry Miller, '10, upon the death of his wife; Father Thomas Brennan, C.S.C, '23, upon the death of his mother; For­rest G. Cotton, '24, upon the death of his father; John M. Barrett. '33, upon the death of his father; Rudolph Crnkovic, '34, upon the death of his father; Brother Alphonsus, CS.C, '36, upon the death of his mother. 

Personals 
Before 1880 gSST^^S^^" 5^ ' 
Mrs. E. C. Baldwin, 802 South Lincoln Ave., Urbana, Illinois, reports the finding in Urbana of a pin bear­ing the inscription, "First Prize, St. Cecih"a Philomathean Society, Notre Dame, June 22, 1870." Anyone knowing proper disposition of this pin can communicate with Mrs. Baldwin or the Alumni Office. 
The following letter regarding Matthew Murphy appeared on the ed­itoiial page of the Brooklyn Eagle on November 30 (a story on Mr. Murphy's death appear s under "Deaths" in this issue): 
"The death of Matthew J. Murphy in a railroad accident, recorded in your columns a few days ago, is cer­tain to evoke poignant regret among a large circle of friends. The de­ceased had been a resident of Brook­lyn for over 70 years, 48 of which w^ere spent in the old Sixth Ward. 
"Mr. Murphy graduated summa cum laude from Notre Dame in '75, and was the last surviving member of his class. During the 62 years that had elapsed he received his di­ploma, no alumnus had manifested a deeper interest in his alma mater. He saw Notre Dame grow from a small and struggling seat of learning into one of the leading univei-sities of the countr}\ He took particular pride in the prowess of its football team, and when victoiy perched on its banner was as happy as an ex­pectant child on Christmas mom. 
"In his 78th year when he died, there was nothing in his appearance or manner to indicate his age. He maintained his youthful spirits to the end. He did so by keeping abreast of his times, and never permitting recollections of the past to cause him a sigh. 
"He led an upright and exemplai-y life. Unassuming and self-effacing, he was the embodiment of Shake­speare's injunction 'Love thyself last.' Goodness and gi-aciousness were his outstanding attributes. That refine­ment and deference to propriety as­sociated with a man of culture were resplendent in his character. 
P. J. ED CANTILLON. 

1880-1885 f^*^'^SS*-,5<*'£',*^ 
Anderson, GirderUle, Ohio. 
* 

1886 Secfetarr: Michael 0. Barns, 338 S. 
Second St, Hamilton, Ohio. 

I887-I888 Seeretair: jr. U Heineman. 
Conttenrille; Indiana. 

1M9 SeCKtarr: P. B. Bufce, Stl Camp 
December - January The Notre Dame Alunfinus 
1R4n.1fl<)^ Searetair: Lonli F. Chute, t
loau-iov a uniy. AT*., Minneapolte, Mtan. 
•taOA Secretarr: Hush A. O'Oonnell, 1 W. *•" " »;th St.. New York City. 
Hugh O'Donnell writes: 

I was agreeably surprised before the Army-Notre Dame game to re­ceive a call from Jack Elder of Chi­cago and a football star in his day. He did not even see the Army-Notre Dame game this year as he was on his way to Boston for a conference regarding the C.Y.O. in Chicago and elsewhere. But Jack is the same ear­nest, modest and wonderful boy as of yore. 
After the Army-Notre Dame game I visited the dressing room for. the purpose of meeting the player who hails from the place of my birth, Bloomington, Illinois. I found Chuck Sweeney, hale and hearty. He intro­duced me to Puplis and some other Notre Dame football stars. That night Sweeney and some others called at my home and found it so crowded that all they could do was to get in and get out, which they did very gi-aciously. 
189 S Seoretar?: Bnitaee Calllnan, Br., 8(0 Fhdan Bids.. S«i Franciico, CUIt 
'189f i Secretarr: William P. Bumi. StT " Willard Ave.. Mlchljwi CStr. Indiana. 
189 7 Secretary: Her. J. A. MacNaraara. Bt Joe. Sanitarlian. Mt aanau, 3Bi3>. 
News of the marriage of Katharine Egan Murphy, daughter of Elmer Murphy, Washington, D. C, and granddaughter of the late Maurice Francis Egan, former Notre Dame professor, was sent recently to Father James A. Burns, provincial, by Hugh Mitchell, '95, also of Washington. 
Mr, Mitchell said that William F. Montavon, '98, of Washington, was at that time (late October) in St. Louis for a thorough physical exam­ination. Of him Mr. Mitchell said: "As you probably know, he is still suffering physical ill effects from his mission of some years ago into Spain, made, I believe, at the request of our Holy Father." 
Ig9 g Secretary: William U Keder. 9th & Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 
189 9 Secretary: Dr. Joseph T. Doane. 418 Jefferson Blvd., Feorta. HI. 
1900 
190 1 Secretary: Joseph J. Sullivan. 130S. 139 N. Qark St.. Chicago. III. 
190 2 Secretary: C. C. Mitchell. 110 S. Dearborn St . Box S. Chicago. HI. 
John Corley, president of the Na­tional Indemnity Exchange in St. 
Louis, was the principal speaker at the Dad's Day dinner of St. Louis University on November 6. Senator Gerald P. Nye, of North Dakota, was another speaker. 
Mr. Mitchell, in sending word to the ALUMNTJS of the death of Thomas 
F. O'Meara, West Bend, Wisconsin, said in part: 
"Tom O'Meara was one of the 
most attentive and conscientious stu­dents in our law class of 1902, and from the time of his graduation he has been one of the hardest working and most conscientious lawyers I have ever known. I have always ad­mired him as a lawyer and as a citi­zen, but I have loved him as man. He was my ideal of a Catholic gen­tleman. 
"His sons will, I understand, prac­tice in West Bend under that ancient and honorable name, O'Meara & O'Meara, and will have an opportun­ity which few sons have, and I hope and believe that their work will con­tinue to reflect the genius and virtue of their father. 
"Tom O'Meara has always been a willing ser\'ant of Notre Dame, and Notre Dame has frequently honored him in the past. I am sure all our brothers in the alumni will take a keen though sorrowful interest in what you may tell them about Tom O'Meara in the next issue of the ALUMNUS." 
Furthe r information on Mr. O'Meara's death may be foun d under "Deaths" in this issue. 
190 3 Secretary: Francis P. Borke. 90t Trust Oo. Bide. Milwaukee. Wis. 
190 4 Secretary: Robert Proctor. Uonser Bldc.. Elkhart. Indiana. 
Harry Hogan, president of the Dime Trust and Savings Bank, of Fort WajTie, Indiana, with his wife and their son Jack returned in No­vember from a seven weeks' tour of Europe. 
Judge Thomas D. Lyons, of Tulsa, Oklahoma, recently gave the prin­cipal address at a meeting of the Crozier Club in Tulsa. His subject was "The Contribution of the Catho­lic Church to the Arts and Sciences." 
190 5 Secretary: Danid J. O'Connor. 10 S. LaSalle St, Chlcnco. IH. 
lon g Secretary: Thomas A. Lally, 811-IS Paulsen Bids.. Spokane, Wash. 
190 7 Secretary: Rev. Thomas E. Borkt. 
C.S.a. Jfotre Dnme. Ind. 

190 8 Secretary: Frank X. Call. Bulkley 
<^v w B„gjj„j_ Qevdand, Ohia 
Bill Draper is now on the western advertising staff of McCall's Maga­zine, with headquarters in the Palm­olive Building in Chicago, according to a recent announcement. Bill had been with the Chicago office of N. W. -A.yer & Sons, advertising agency. 
190 9  Secretary: S. P. acmir. Notre Dam*,  
*  
igi O  Secretary: Ber, K, I., SToriattr. ISM Euclid Ave;, Qevdand. Ohio.  

191 1 Secretary: Fred Steera, ISM Fbi t *^ * National Bank BId«.. CUea«o, m. 
191 9 Secretary: B. J. Kaiser. SM Foorlk *^ * St, Pittsbniidi. Pa, 
1Q1 ^ Secretary: James J. Devitt, MI Bl­*'*"' gineers' BId«., Qevdand, Ohio. 
191 4 Secretary: Frank H. Ha>t*^ Of *^ ^ Bank of America Bldg.,Aaaheim.CU. 
192 s Secretary: James E. Sanford. Jam Handy Theatre Service. Inc.. 230 Park Avenue. New York City. 
Jim Sanford sends word that he is now with the Jam Handy Theatre Service, Inc., 230 Park Avenue, New York City, an advertising organiza­tion. He and Joe Byrne are plan­ning to get together soon to produce some '15 news for the ALUMNUS. 
Secretary: Timothj P. Galvia. Rrst 

1916 
Trust BIdg.. Hammond. Ind. 
* 
Secretary: Edward J. McOsker. 104 

1917 
S. Union St. Elgin. HL 

Secretary: John A. Lemmer. 1110— 1918 8th Ave.. S., Escansiba, Mich. 
Secretary: Clarence Bader. 650 Pierce 

1919 
Street Gary. Indiana. 
Secretary: Leo B. Ward. 1012 Black 

1920 
BIdg.. Los Angdes. Calif. 

192 1 Secretary: Dan W. Duffy. 1600 Ter­minal Tower. Clevdand. Ohio. 
1Q9 9 Secretary: Gerald Ashe. BnSsIo Atb­*"* * letle dub. Buffalo, New York. 
The World's Greatest Notre Dame alumni magazine published in No­vember this announcement: "Mr. and Mrs. Aaron A. Hugenard, '22, an­nounce the birth of a son, October 4." 
In view of that, the enunent South Bend barrister and proud father was moved to write this: 
"In connection with the foregoing, item recently published in the ALUM­NUS your attention is called to the following: 
"1 . The middle initial is "H' as in Heinz, hurrah and phooey; 
"2. There is a second 'u' in- the surname as in uvula, fugue and uutyede; 
"3. No announcement was made— the father's age makes the event news­worthy without a formal statement; 
The Notre Dame Alumnus December - January 
"4. Unless the doctor, nurse and mother don't know their business 'he's a g^l.' 
"In all other respects the item was entirely correct." 
Anyway, you can say for the ALUMNUS that it always does things in a big way. 
Your secretary reporting: Here is a brief, crisp report on the whereabouts and doings of some of our classmates: George Kerver — Claim Superin­tendent for the New Amsterdam Casua% Company. His territory, the state of Ohio. Alvtn Van Dolman — Van Dolman Coffee Company, Chicago. Emmett Burke — Frank Burke & Sons Construction Company, Chica­go-loin S. McCabe — Law Practice— South LaSalle St., Chicago. Doc Hughes — Title officer—Chi­cago Title and Trust Co., Chicago. Art Keeney — Law Practice—Ohio Building, Akron, Ohio. Jack Dettling — Florist—A k r 0 n, Ohio. Jim Shaw — Shaw & McDermott, Des Moines, Iowa — Specialists in 
Municipal Bonds. Paul Pfohl — R.C.A., Chicago. Cyril Kellett — Meat business — 
Milford, Massachusetts. Frank (not Perce) Connelly—^Fire­man's Fund Indemnity Co. Produc­tion Department for Michigan and Indiana. Vince Hanrahan apparently has finished his boundary survey work for the Eepublic of Guatamala. He is located in Santa Ana, El Salvador, 
0. A. 
Gene Kennedy left his beloved Los Angeles long enough to pay a short visit to Notre Dame and to at­tend the Pittsburgh game. Doctor Daniel Coughlih, of Waseca, Minne­sota, also attended the Pitt game, as did Jack Dettling from Akron, Judd Wyland, from Penn Yan, New York, and Vince Pater, fro m Hamilton, Ohio. 
Buck Shaw, of Santa Clara, is re­ceiving much attention nationally for his wonderful work in bringing his Santa Clara football team through an undefeated and untied season. Mod­est in the extreme. Buck was a •won­derful tackle in his football days, and his success as a coach of the game has placed him near the top in his profession. 
Wholly as fine a character and equally as skilled a player at Notre 
Dame, Dr. Eddie Anderson, of Holy 
Cross, terminated a season with no defeats and with two scoreless ties. 
192 3 ^'•"' H. Castner, 17 Cornell Boad, West Hartford. Conn. 
These good words are from the good class sec: 
I saw Dick Nash, Roge Kiley, and Ed Gould in New York; they -were there for the Army game. I also saw Jack Higgins, '22, and he tells that he sees Ed Degree quite often in De­troit. 
Ed was assistant federal district attorney for a number of years— this was some time ago. For the last seven or eight years Ed has been the Degree of Filden and Degree, an up­and-coming legal firm holding forth in the Penobscot Building in Detroit. 
I had the pleasure of a recent eve­ning with Ed Shea and Henry Barn-hart in Lima, Ohio. Henry says he will be at Commencement this next June. We'll believe that one when we see him there. Anyhow he will be a bad influence on the class at Commencement for he keeps one up so late. Ed is still in Dayton but was in Lima on business. 
1 *I24. Secxetair: J. F. Hajea. Wm. F. P«d­'•"^^ rick £ Co.. Emp. Slate Bide.. N.Y.a 
192 5 Secretary: John P. Hurley, 2085 Brookdale Eoad, Toledo. Ohio. 
Secretary Hurley writes: A big "red apple" to Norbert "Duke" Clancy, of Indianapolis, for a letter chuck full of news: "Eddie Lyons was last reported in or about Cleveland, according to his 
uncle. Father Michael Lyons, who is 
pastor of Our Lady of Lourdes parish here in Indianapolis. He was re­ported in Indianapolis last summer, but I didn't have an opportunity to see him. 
"I see Bob Ross around town now and then. He. is married and doing well according to all reports. 
"Bob Worth is our big 'storage battery man.' He has an executive position with Presto - Lite Battery Company here in Indianapolis and is the proud father of a fine and healthy family. 
"Walter Houppert is no w far 
ahead of me when it comes to lack of hirsute loveliness. Boy, he'll start hating me right now for that crack! Yeah, he's almost as bald as Mark Mooney and I'm still better off than either one of them. I've got five bucks that says so. How about it, Mooney? We'll let you count 'em! Disregarding Houppert's 'ski slide for summer flies,' it hasn't stymied his legal progress. Walt is the legal counsel for the Home Owner's Loan Corporation. 
"George Bischoff still continues on his path of success with the Travel­ers Insurance Company, as does Har­old Watson, who is with the same company in Milwaukee. 
"Joe Harmon is still the same old 'side swipe Joe.' I haven't seen him since last summer. He has acquired a gentlemanly portliness that be­comes him well. Last reported with the Indiana Bureau of Motor Ve­hicles and doing all right. 
"James Dugan 'Judge' Collins has 
turned his talents to law and is run­ning Harmon a close contest for the avoirdupois honors, and I believe he's leading by a paunch. I see the 'Judge' quite often and my 'room­mate, best man, good friend Friday' is his same old genial self and doing fine. 
"Here's one I can't get any dope on at all—John Morgan. Anybody knowing the whereabouts of the mys­terious 'Raider' let us know. 
"Frank McCarthy is still the 'back­bone of the Big Pour R.R..' His foot­ball 'specials' have carried N.D. root­ers to all the home games in deluxe fashion. You know Mac; he believes in the ultimate in traveling comfort, with the result each week Mac's pop­ularity reaches a new high. 
"As for me, well, I guess I'm the Indianapolis nomad. At the present I am hanging my hat back on the rack in the 'old home town.' Since 1925, however, Detroit, Grand Rap­ids, Chicago, Gary (Shades of John Wallace!), Evansville, and Indian­apolis have claimed me as a resident. -A.t the present time I am with the General Motors Acceptance Corpora­tion in Indianapolis having acquired quite a dignified position which allows me to adopt the mien of a financial 'tycoon' in the old home town. Can't kick at all, John; I'm doing all right. 
"Brother Agatho, '25, is now the principal of Cathedral High School in Indianapolis and has Father Gal­lagan as chaplain and spiritual ad­visor of the 'little fighting Irish.' 
"I spent a very pleasant evening with Father Gallagan who, with my­self, enjoyed the hospitality of Claud PiUenberger, '26. The 'ghosts' of Badin Hall walked again and believe me, John, I've come to the conclusion that the best thing to do with the past is to keep it buried. Get around Father Gallagan and it's liable to come back and haunt you. 
"Maurie Boland was in circulation around Indianapolis last summer. Still the same as ever. He's helping Herm Centlivre and his brothers make the name 'Nickel Plate Beer* a household word throughout the na­tion—and I might add they are doing a swell job of it, too! 
"Charlie Smith is around Indian­apolis, but I haven't seen him recent­

December - January The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ly. At last reporting, however, Char­lie was doing all right. 
"Well, I guess I have covered the Indianapolis situation and can now crawl oft the 'spot.' I think it would be swell to pin the correspondence lily for next month on J. Willard Jones and Mike Neitzel. And by the way, does anybody know where Jack Melley is at this ^^^*iting? Any news on Barney McNab? Last I heard of him, he was out in your baliwick. 
"I think Anse brought out a good point this month. Let's keep this ball rolling until we have accounted for all the members of the class. Here's hoping that reports keep roll­ing. Jack, and don't forget the latch-string is still out for you in Indianap­olis when you happen this way." 
Charlie Mouch is doing a great job with his Chevrolet agency in San­dusky, Ohio, and the surrounding territory. Charlie is district deputy of the K. of C. there, and he has been one of the leaders in organizing the Sandusky-Notre Dame club. He has a fine family of two boys and a girl. 
On my way through to Cleveland recently, I heard that Al Foos has an electric appliance business in Nor­walk, is married and doing swell. 
Frank Murray was in the office the other day. Frank is general manager of the Toledo Cartage Co., here in Toledo. He sees Carl Schaefer quite often. Carl is with Owen & Owen, patent attorneys here in Toledo. 
We are going to let Duke Clancy's suggestion stand so we expect to hear from J. Willard Jones, Mike Neitzel, Jack Melley and Barney McNab be­fore the next issue, and those fellows who failed to "shine" last month have 30 days grace. 
More and more about Anse Miller! A clipping from the weekly paper in his old home town. Port Allegany, Pennsylvania, tells tha t he was chairman of the office buildings divi­sion in the recent Red Cross roll call in his adopted city, Eoanoke, Vir­ginia. He also headed this year a part of the Community Fund drive in Eoanoke. 
* 1326 ^cret^ry: James A. Konan, 127 N. 
Dearborn St., Chicago, Illinois. Your new secretary, Barrister Ro­nan, makes an auspicious start, as they say, and, with lots of help from you and you, he'll do even better next time. Just look at the competition from '25 and '27. Here he is: 
Since that eminent medico Dr. Gerald Weldon Hayes hung up his shingle down there in Jersey patients have been fighting for chairs in his waiting room. The doctor is a very busy man. So our good friend Wil­liam R. Dooley, who is responsible for the publication of this most in­teresting periodical, has come to the conclusion that a busy professional man makes a poor class secretary. Doctor Hayes, then, has been heart­lessly and unceremoniously "fired," and the alumni secretary picks upon an unsuspecting lawyer whose busi­ness is so bad that the office rent is unpaid. He's been reading our mail. So for the time being we will attempt to concoct a few notes now and then about the men of 1926. 
John O'Hem Tuohy, our ex-room­mate, is conducting a flourishing real estate and insurance business in Oak Park. John is seen frequently in company with Joe Rigali who spends a goodly portion of his spare time demonstrating the fine points of end play to his sturdy young sons. Herb Eggert is another Oak Parker who is busy raising a family when not sell­ing coal. We used to see coal-man Andy Conlin once in a while; but he has been in seclusion for quite a while now. 
J. Paul Johnson, the Kokomo busi­ness baron, was spotted in a 50-yard­line seat at the recent Northwestem-Notre Dame game. He looks very well fed and healthy. Steve Pietro­wicz, the "World's Greatest News­paper's" busiest advertising represen­tative, was also at the game, though not on the 50-yard line. He's gun­ning for Art Haley as a result of his end-zone location. We had hopes that Dutch O'Day and some of the Clevelanders might come to Chicago for the game; but they apparently chose the Southern California fracas instead. 
Joe Shea, who had been in Chicago for two years, left for Detroit a few weeks ago to head the promotion de­partment of the Hotel Statler. That leaves John Sweeney without a room­mate. John continues to assist in the management of the Commonwealth Edison Company and still buys his colorful cravats at Finchley, Inc. 
Gerry McDermott drops in the of­fice from time to time. He's always on the way to a conference with rep­resentatives of some big distilleries, it seems. But only to sell them ad­vertising space on the billboard, not to sample any of their product. Gerry reports that his old side-kick George Hartnett, the demon peanut broker, is still a resident of the North Side, although some of us south of the river had begun to wonder whether or not he was still alive. 
Within a half hour, one day last week, we met Dr. Tom Leahy, Joe Bailey and John Wallace. Tom, in addition to conducting his own pri­vate practice, is assistant city physi­cian in Chicago. Bailey and John Wallace continue in the practice of law, the former in Chicago, the latter in Calumet City, a suburb. 
A good class secretary needs cor­respondents, and plenty of them. We need news items about the men of 1926! How about a letter from Bud Barr, down there in Indiana? Or from the recently-married Frank Bon, or Gerry McGinley out in the wide open spaces of Wyoming and Ne­braska? Couldn't Ed Fallon, Tom Burke, Bill Reid, Bemy Wingerter, or some of the New Yorkers give us a line on some of the boys "way down East-" Our pal Dooley clamors for material to fill his columns. We can't let a pal down, now, can we? 
Gmac Wingerter sent some dope from the New Jersey sector in a re­cent letter. He said: "I have seen besides Tom Farrell, recently, Eddie Duggan (who is really shooing the clients away from his door), Dr. Ger­ald Hayes (that guy is never still, but does it keep his waistline down?—^it does not), Montana Dan O'Neill, Ed Hargan (he passed the New York bar in a breeze and is living like a hu­man again)." Wink had shortly he-fore spent a very enjoyable week-end in Stamford, Connecticut, with Wally Cyr, '25. 
* 

1927 Secretaries: Joseph M. Boland. Ath­
letic Office Notre Same, Ini: Bi­

mund DeClenj. 7129 So. Park Ave., Chicago. We give you the line coach and his line: 
Staggering in under the wire, a tired and leg-weary instructor of youth in the fine art of knocking 'em down and scoring finds it at last pos­sible to draw a relieved breath—and finds it also possible to jot down a few notes from off the well-laundered cuff anent the doings of the '27 wan­derers. 
The lads from that golden era of Notre Dame history have been check­ing in with commendable regularity, in person, by mail, and by word-of­mouth; so much so that we're expect­ing word by dog-team any day now about Elmer Wynne. In the confu­sion of last-quarter rallies, down­town quarterbacks and guards who were down-town when enemy backs were knocking at the door, your scrivener may likely miss a few of the '27 noblemen, for which accept apologies and a promise to insert them in coming cuff-notes. For those whose names and faces and memories lingered positively in a somewhat ad­dled memory, consult the following: "Lost and Pound" Column: 
LOST: the Beretz boys, Chuck and O.P.—erstwhile Lorain, Ohio, flashes; Bob BartI, that decorator of La-Crosse, Wisconsin, fame; Ted Ber­kery, who used to hang a few on your scrivener's nose as a high school football opponent; Theon Dohogne, from Memphis, Tennessee; Boris Ep­stein, who used to help this lad through many a Commerce class; Tom McMahon and Norb Kavanaugh —^we know they're somewhere in the Great Northwest, but where? and what? Al Nanovic and Potter Wil­cox; Joe Wlielan—still in Grantwood, New Jersey? 
No rewar/i oifered for return of the above other than the satisfaction of the curiosity of a great many friends, who stijl want to know about the lads of '27. Any information as to their present whereabouts and state of life appreciated by one and all of the flock of former sun-dodgers from Carroll, Brownson, Badin, Cor-• by, Sorin, et. al. 
FOUND: Dan Cunningham, who is 
with his dad in the commission busi­ness in New York and is raising cocker spaniels on the side, checked in to Joe Benda recently by mail. Don't know about that cocker-spaniel business—but there must be dough in it! The pretty pups have taken Dan's love away from iirst editions. 
Phil Lopresti is carrying the torch of N.D. law high in his native Johns­town, Pennsylvania, where he is cur­rently in politics to the extent of rep­resenting his district in the Pennsyl­vania House. Phil hasn't changed in the interim from '27, and his love for the campus brought him back for a ball game here this fall. 
Gerry Parker caught the col con­ductor on the Hy outside Yankee Sta­dium in New York after the Army game, to display his gallant and still curly head of blond hair. No further report on Gerry, as the rain and con­fusion led to a quick separation. 
Art Monaco telephoned this scriv­ener at the Westchester Country Club the day before the game, but my blood pressure was too high by virtue of the surroundings and we missed connections. 
Emmett Barron, that lean and fast hurdler from Iowa, ran smack-dab into the conductor in the lobby of the St Paul Hotel, on the eve of the Minnesota game, to bring news of himself and little Ed "Moon" MuUin, that white-haired flash from Fonda, Iowa, who used to upset Rock's best-laid plans on scrimmage afternoons as a freshman. Emmett is located with an insurance company whose name is too long to get credit in this column—a good cover-up for an ag­ing memory, eh?—and if Emmett wants his neighbor to know about his present whereabouts and condition of life he'd better check in by mail with the full dope on himself and Mullin. 
Frank Mayer was busy that same night as combination toastmaster,' committee chairman, football scout and what not, but managed to get a few minutes in with the boys. He's with Northern States Power, in St. Paul. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Red Smith took time out from those mastodonic Green Bay Packers to drop in to the campus the other day: he's coaching the line for the Packers, and is under contract with the Milwaukee ball club in the Asso­ciation. Red was on his way to the minor league meeting in Milwaukee at the time, to dispose of a minor league ball club he suddenly found himself possessed of one day last summer. He still smokes the same brand—this last for the Information of Jimmy Quinn, who had to live with Red that last year. Quinn, by the way, is busily engaged in publishing books in his native Rahway, New Jer­sey, when he's not worrjang about his pals of '27. 
John "Pete" Petrone must be ad­dressed as "Doctor" nowadays, as he goes about his business of curing the ills of his native Suffem, New York. 
Jack Patton is an "economic royal­ist" in his native Mitchell, South Da­kota, at the Mitchell National Bank. He came to life with a bang—evi­dently just made the last mail out be­fore winter set in—and dropped this following missive into the lap of your you-know-what: 
"Ray Ernst is located in Aberdeen working for the Northwestern Life Insurance Company. Is married and has a baby daughter. Since Ray and myself come from the same breed of political pups, see him ever so often. 
(P.S. That is the Democrats, not the Republicans.) 
"While in Minneapolis for the Min­nesota-Notre Dame game saw Joe Dunn; he is now back in Brainerd, Minnesota. He tells me that Willie Graham is also there. Doing what, I don't remember. Joe also told me that our class president, Dink Hen­nessey, was in the insurance business in Vicksburg, Mississippi, but that nothing could seem to drag him away up north again. Haven't heard from Freddie Deutsch in some time, but the last I knew he was still connected with the Downing Paper Box Com­pany, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Saw Joe O'Donneil about a year ago; he is still i-unning his father's market on Rush Street in Chicago. Also had the pleasure of visiting with Ed Gar­rity, who is now married; at that time he was connected with some steel company. 
"Prom the last issue of the ALUM­NUS see that you wer e scooped [After all, Jack!] right there on the campus. Tommy O'Connor, my room­mate, was married in the Log Chapel during the early part of October. Would have liked to have been there to Iiave crowned him with an old shoe. This summer had a nice visit will Bill Jones, '28, who is now in Washington, D.C. Bill hasn't changed much in all these years. 
"As for myself, Joe,, the letterhead 
December - January 
is enough to tell you that I am in the world's worst business, especially in this section of the country. It never seems to rain at the right time, the grasshoppers grow larger every year. However, I will say this much, we have received more this year in the way of crop than we have had for a number of years. Often think I should have taken agriculture instead of commerce. Had to learn plenty about cattle, hogs and sheep, and am still far from being an expert. [Oh, Dean McCarthy!] 
"Since our first class reunion have jumped in to the sea of matrimony Have a daughter 16 months old. 
"Sorry I had to miss the reunion, but things didn't look so bright around here about that time—^no rain and plenty of grasshoppers, and if at all possible I did want to make the Minnesota-Notre Dame game. Thanks to Elmer, yourself and Joe Benda, the boys are a little easier to get along with now. Would have liked to see you at the get-together in St. Paul, but combined business and pleasure on the trip and as a result the pleasure suffered. 
"What ever became of Jack Hicock from Hancock, Michigan? Eddie Broderick? Howie Phalin? Jimmie 
Jay.?" 

And so, to close with a clear con­science: with winter approaching, the Knife - and - Fork league to buck against, and the necessity of getting a head start on my worrying for next year (did you hear that we lose 5 guards, 2 centers, 2 tackles—or didn't you hear all that?) this will have to be enough for this time. 
The reward for Delia Maria has just been raised: any information of that elusive character will be appre­ciated. 
George P. "Chunky" Murrin is 
•practicing law in Houston, Texas, with the firm of Wood & Morrow in 1219-33 Shell Building, according to a recent announcement. 
Harry O'Boyle a few months ago went through a school of merchandis­ing and management conducted by Chevrolet and now is a Chevrolet rep­resentative with headquarters in Ban Claire, Wisconsin. His address there is 524% Lake Street. 
192 3 S"fc*^'7: Louis F. Buckley, Mtddle­ton, Wisconsin. 
From the eminent Howie Pbalin, man about the country, comes this record-breaking contribution: 
I consider it a signal honor to be selected to write the column as "guest conductor" following such able per­sonages as our candidate for "Doc­tor" and the literary highlight of the 
December - January The Notre Dame Alumnus 
class, Jack Mullen. I seem to be fol­lowing Jack; I had to wait for him to say "I do" on the day both of us were married. 
As for myself, as sales manager for the Quarrie Corporation, I still do lots of travelling, and meet a great number of Notre Dame men from our own class and other classes. Some of the places and circumstances are very amusing. As an example, I met Tom Rucklehaus in the elevator of the Biltmore Hotel in Los Angeles last February, loaded with tennis rackets. Whether being there on his honeymoon had anything to do with the tennis rackets I do not know. Sometime previous I had met Joe Brannon in the elevator of the Hotel New Yoi'ker in New York. (What has happened to you, Joe? No one seems to have the slightest idea). 
Pour times this year I have met Frank Pendergast on trains. Prank travels for the American Book Com­pany, which undoubtedly has some­thing to do with the great number of states adopting American Book Com­pany texts. We were together in Des Moines two weeks ago and while there went into every radio store in that city attempting to iind one who would permit us to tune in on the N.D.-Pitt game. In the course of our search we met Mark Wonderlin, of '29. This brings to mind Ed Seiter, a pal of Mark's. The last I heard of Ed was when he had taken on a help­mate and was director of Catholic Charities in Kansas Citj-. Who has seen John Seiter? Two years ago he was teaching at a militaiy school in Lexington, Missouri. 
Chet Rice, who is in the purchasing department of Chicago Title and Trust, told me that he had a great week-end in South Bend at the Pitt game with Art Denchfield. Art is still with Singer Sewing Machine Company in South America. Too bad we couldn't all have passes to Dean McCarthy's class when you addressed it. Art. Chet also told me of seeing Bemie Losbaugh. Bemie has been in Vicksburg, Mississippi, ^vith Jack Canizaro, following his profession of architecture. Dick Phelan, of cross­countrj- fame, is also at Title and Tinist, but has been so busy -nith his new daughter no one sees him any more. In the same institution, as a title examiner, we find Ray Mulligan. 
Of course, you all remember Ed McKeown. Ed is more than busy directing his own law firm here in Chicago at 30 North La Salle Street. Whenever I go into his oflice I think it is a bull session such as was held in Freshman Hall back in 1924 in the room of the famous Quads: Gockhe, Aeggeler, Cavanaugh and Murphy. Ed represents the Commer­cial Credit in these parts when he is not busy with his private practice and with tending to little Maey Frances McKeown, now 20 months old. All of the Quads are doing well. John Cavanaugh is with Continental Illi­nois Bank in Chicago. William Han­ley Murphy can be found in the Mer­chandise Mart here where he directs sales for a metal specialties company. I saw Dr. Gockhe in Los Angeles this year where he has built up a fine practice after serving in the medical corps of the U. S. Army for three years in the East. I understand John has a new oiTspring bom this sum­mer. Aeggeler was out of town on my last trip, but I had a fine visit with him two years ago. At that time he said he never could get over Notre Dame life where a fellow could go around with no money in his pocket. 
I have seen George Coury several times here in town. He is with Shields & Company in the Field Building and also has gone into the coal business. Last report is that George is quite ill in a sanitarium but no one had any particulars. Saw Chuck Collins at a Notre Dame Club luncheon last week, and he told me that Ed Collins, his brother, was still in Tucson, but getting along nicely. Ed would enjoy hearing from '28ers. His address is 1727 Speedway, Tucson, Arizona. In September Mrs. Phalin and I at­tende d Mass at St. Lawrence's Church in Washington, D. C, and discovered a very pious young man ahead of us was wild Bill Jones — late of Montana. Bill is with the De­partment of Justice, and by the time this is read will have taken on to himself a Mrs. Jones. I was sur­prised to see a picture of Connie Ochoa and Jack Doyle on the front page of the Minneapolis Tribune the day of the Minnesota game. Connie was the guy who come the longest distance to the game. 
A few months back I saw smiling Frank McCarthy in Indianapolis. Prank is with the Carnation Milk Company and together we visited the Bob Kirbys. Bob has three daugh­ters (twins, five years old) and a son. Bob is secretary to the mayor of In­dianapolis, and the boys tell me they are ninning him for the job of "His Honor" in 1940. Another of the dig­nitaries from Indianapolis is George Bischoff of the class of 1925. George is with the Travelers Insurance Com­pany and paid me a friendly, but of­ficial, visit as he changed trains in Chicago on his way from the Minne­sota game. George told of spending the week end in LaCrosse with Au­guie Grams and his wife and four children. Augie is manager of his father's cereal mill and, in addition, has bought a 500-acre farm. Inci­dentally, if any of you want any tur­keys, see Augie. 
The Knox brothers are all doing handsomely for themselves. Brother Harold has two daughters and a son, and manages the Hotel LaSalle Tow­ers, 1211 N. LaSalle, Chicago. If you don't know it, he has free rooms for any of the class of '28, passing through Chicago. Brother Rober*, of architectural fame, can be found at Hotel Capital Plaza, Springfield, Illi­nois, and works in the State House in the State Architect's office. Broth­er Vernon is city attorney of the home town, McHenry, Illinois. Inci­dentally, his wedding to Miss Hazel Heimer, on October 23, turned out to be a Notre Dame affair. I counted eight Notre Dame boys—among them were Kisser Keef, Jim Rich, and Don Fitzgerald. Vernon can be found at Hillside Road, Crystal I-ake, Illinois. 
Tim Hinche'y, of Springfield, Mas­sachusetts, was in to see me a couple of weeks ago. He is with the Zeller­bach Paper Company here in Chica­go. I received a very welcome letter from Richard Trant bearing the let­ter head, "Trant & Kelly, General Hardware & Implements, Furniture, Undertaking," fro m Cahmbridge, Nebraska. The important news was that Red is the father of a red-headed boy bom August 11. So we will watch for a Trant fullback in the fall of 1956. Red asks for Bill Leahy, Pinkley, James (Fashion Park( Con­mey, Jim Morrissey, John Carlin, John Viktoryn, William O'Mara and Don Ran. Of these I met Bill Leahy in St. Louis over a year ago. Bill is with the Pet Milk Company in its St. Louis oflice and told me Carroll Pink­ley was in the banking business. Also, one night in Grand Rapids as I stood waiting for a cab in front of the Pantlind Hotel, whom should I meet but Don Rau. Don also has a son almost as big as himself and a very charming wife. He is in business in Cedar Springs, Michigan, and if I re­member correctly it's the same as your's. Red. 
I know all the fellows were sorry to read of Ed Walsh's death. I met him in the Gunter Hotel in San An­tonio Just a year ago and he seemed in the best of health then. At the same time I spent a very enjoyable evening with Tex Williams and his wife. Incidentally, Tex has twins. I suppose most of you knew of Mike Frantx's death. I spent an evening in Omaha with Mike and John Doa­ran and it surely seems tough to think they are both gone. 
John R. Murphy is manager of the Quarrie Corporation office in Colum­bus, Ohio, and resides there at 580 East Towne Street. Murph is doing very well for himself and has been married since 1933 to Bonnie Lou Kinlaw from North Carolina. Jim Allen is practicing law and can be found at 30 North LaSalle, Chicago. Incidentally, Jim is as fat as ever and even more good-natured since his marriage. No one seems to hear from Bemie Bird and the last I saw of him was when I acted as his best man down at the Log Chapel in 1933 when 
The Notre Dame Alumnus December - January 
he was married to Marie Sheridan. At that time Bemie was addressed in care of the Juvenile Courts Building, Buffalo, New York. (How about a letter, Bemie?) 
Saw Bill Cronin in the Mayflower Hotel in Washington, D.G., a little over a year ago. He had Just been married that day. The same night I ran into Bob Strickel in a downtown restaurant. About five years ago, while in New York, I had a difficult time persuading Mrs. Phalin not to succumb to the salesmanship of a fine-looking gentleman behind the counter in a 34th Street book mart. Who did the salesman turn out to be but Bemie Garber. Where are you now, Bemie? Last January, while attending Mass in a little crowded church in Tallahassee, Florida, it was necessarj' to kneel in the aisle, and a honeymooning couple next to me turned out to be Mr. and Mrs. Bill Jeffreys. They were on their way back from Cuba. Bill is still in Hanging Rock, Ohio. In Louisville last year I bumped into Herb Nestor, who was there on business for the Federal Farm Loan. 
While in Peoria, Illinois, I spent a very enjoyable evening with the one-and-onlj' Joe Langton. Joe was selling tires to beat the band. And you will be surprised that I found Leo Schultheis in Louisville, also a salesman. Leo is married to the for­mer Dorothy Donahue, whose father is chief claim attorney for the L. & 
N. Railroad. I'll vouch for Leo's meals, for Dorothy is some cook. Leo has one daughter. 
In Fort Wayne I found Art Miller high in the banking circles and Henry Hasley, just as high in law. Just a few miles to the west of Henry, in Lafayette, Indiana, is our Harvard-educated Mike Ricks, and incidental­ly, Mike doesn't have to make the long trips to Fowler any longer. It is Mr. and Mrs. now, and Mike is the first judge from the legal talent of the class. Swede Schroeder Was in my office last spring on his way to a Junior Chamber of Commerce con­vention. Swede is one of the national directors and can be found trying cases daily in the Detroit Lakes, Min­nesota, \'icinitj'', Swede is tied with Bob Kirby in the number of off­spring. I last saw John Berscheid in Savannah, Georgia, where he was living at Hotel Savannah, but under­stand he was married recently and is living now in Birmingham. John is with the T. C. & L 
Another church meeting some time back was in Kansas City where I met John T. Schmitz and his wife. John was doing a land office business for Ohio Match. Bill GrifRn was in town for our last club dance and reports he is ivith Bethlehem Steel in Bethle­hem, Pennsylvania. Lionel Austin owns a chain of hosiery shops in our neighboring city of Evanston and is married to Bemie Metzger's sister. I see Ray Lusson quite often running dovm Wacker Drive to the Chicago Board of Education offices where he is purchasing agent. In getting to work on time, Ray has just as good a stride as he ever had in making Prafessor Mines' class. Got a glimpse of Pat Varraveto outside of Carder's restaurant here in Chicag o last month. He is looking as fine as ever. 
Wonder why more of the '28ers didn't make the Retreat at Notre Dame in August. If you did, you would never miss another. I saw John Wallace there and, along with Ed McKeown and Henry Hasley, formed a group for our class. The last mail from Fred Ruiz came from Nam.pa, Idaho, where he is teaching. And a friend of mine stopped off in Boise to see big bad Buck Jones, whom, he reports, runs the town along with the Neitzel boys. If you read this, Mike, my brother George has often asked about you. The lat­est on Joe Morrissey was when I vis­ited his home in Cincinnati a year ago last summer. And what has be­come of Jim Morrissey? • Also John McSorley, Fritz Wilson and Turk Meinert from Pittsburgh? Leo Mc­Intyre gave the Chicago boys a treat with his visit here last New Year's. We understand Leo is still very much interested in journalism. We are not certain whether the card from Atlan­tic City this summer meant a cover­age for the Philadelphia Record, for which he is ivriting. 
No news at all from Bart McHugb, Bob Nickells, or Red Riley. And are you, Tom Murphy, still in the shoe business? The last we heard of Andy Powers was that Almanaris water, now under his management, was lead­ing the field. Likewise John Rickord has not been seen or heard from since he moved to Chicago for Ar­mour's. I have often wondered about you, Francis Zappone, Jerry Ransav­age, and Burt Toepp. Dr. Paul Tobin IS doing excellently in Elgin, Illinois; while George Thomas, whom I met at last Commencement, has just built a home in Willoughby, Ohio, and promises all the boys freedom from arrest as they visit that city. He re­ported Paul Brady was the legal mind of his neighboring city of Painesville. Several of the boys have asked for you, Maurie Conley; likewise Joe Do-ran and John Cullinan. Do you re­member Frank Li and the day he busted the door in his Sorin Sub room? Hope he didn't get into the Shanghai gesture. 
•I had a very welcome letter from John F. McMahon, who is executive assistant to the Air Hygiene Founda­tion of America, Inc., and can be found at 4400 Fifth Avenue, Pitts­burgh. John is grooming his new son for the 1955 squad. 
I saw Jack Chevigny at the North­western game. He said he was with a Texas oil company and was then drilling a well at Mattoon, Illinois. Bill Dowdall is still in the meat busi­ness in Buffalo. Saw Tom Hart at the Chicago Club dance here at the Knickerbocker last Saturday night. Several have asked for Les Carrig of Columbus, Nebraska, and Bernie Crowley of Ellsworth, Minnesota. How about some word next month? Likewise what has happened to Jerre 
Biggee and Don Corbett. 
As a final word—^I feel we ought to get ready for our ten-year reunion in June. Most of the fellows I have met plan to be back. Those who have not been back to the campus since 1928 -(rill need a guide and will miss a great number of the faculty for our class. Those whose deaths I have heard about include Father O'Malley, Father Albertson, Brother 
- Alphonsus, Brother Cyprian, Charlie Phillips, Father DeWulff, Father Cav­anaugh, Father Lavin, Professor Mc-Cue and Colonel Hoynes. Members of the class whose deaths I have learned are John Doarn, Mike Frantz, George Flick, Edmund Glade, George Kiener, Frank O'TooIe, Joe Prelli, Ed Walsh, John Murphy, Eugene Kelley. 
Ho^vie not only did a grand job himself, but he pried this super dirt fi-om the big dirt man of Pittsburgh —John McMahon: 
Have you been reading Dale Car­
negie? 
Your artful letter asking for con­tributions to the '28 column smacked of the Carnegie technique; ah, you were always a persuasive salesman, even in the old Freshman Hall days when you were "putting the bee" on the good Fathers Stack and Mulcaire to approve your various deWIish de­vices. Well, I'm afraid you've picked on a poor news source. I don't see many of the boys any more and con­sequently hear less and less of their tribulations and triumphs. However, here goes for a few jots and dashes and random recollections: 
Jim Cullen, who went onto Har­vard for law and then tacked up his shingle in the home town, made a re­markable run for judge of Bradford County, Pennsylvania, in the recent November elections. In a county where Democrats used to carry six-shooters for protection, Jim gave his Republican opponent, the incumbent, the fight of his life. Candidate Cul­len, edged out by only a couple of thousand votes, probably polled the largest follo-\ving run up by a Demo­crat in the history of the county. It was a "moral victory" if there ever was one. 
You r correspondent encounters Jack Sheedy, Turk Meinert, Bemie Stettler and Fritz Wilson occasional­ly, usually at the Thursday noon 

December - January The Notre Dame Alumnus 
luncheons of the Steel City's alumni ; all are hale and hearty and seem to be doing right well by themselves. Sheedy has two fine youngsters, a boy and a girl. 
The Monday following N.D.'s loss to Pitt (Wilson tells me if there ever was a beaten team it was Pitt going into that fourth quarter), a Pitts­burgh sports editor delivered him­self of a home-town hosanna in the form of a column captioned "Hail to Pitt." He jeered N.D.'s action in dropping Pitt, said that no matter how successful Irish teams might be the fact they were not playing Pitt would cast a shadow on their records. Indeed he rubbed salt in our wounds with the vigor of a bull seeking re­venge. The blast provoked such a broadside of letters that Ye Ed has been ti-ying to justify himself ever since. He printed a number of the bombshells. One was especially good. It pointed out that "dropping Pitt" had become an old collegiate custom among top flight institutions, citing the action of Army, Navy, Minneso­ta and Ohio State. The letter was signed by a Mr. Solomon of Ebens­burg, Pennsylvania. We have reason to believe the writer was none other than old Sol (David Solomon) who with Paul Tobin and Joe Brannon was forever knocking baseballs all over the lot in front of Freshman Hall. He certainly ran that sports editor through the meat grinder. (Nice work, Sol). 
Jim Conmey, the old "economic royalist," is still in New York's brok­erage business (if there's any left). He's with a firm at that address of addresses, 1 Wall Street. 1 tried to contact him a few w^eeks ago but without success. Efforts to reach Walt Layne were also fruitless. Walt was still in the publishing business the last I heard. 
Larry Culliney, another old cronie of mine in New York, is, as previous­ly reported, with the F.D.I.C. Larry works out of the Big Town, thumb­ing through ledgers of banks all over New York State and New Jersey. 
Comes word that hard - working Ollie Schill, who was about our vin­tage at N.D., is very well connected in the automobile industry in New York, General Motors, I believe. Not satisfied with that, he's getting law at night school. He's a tireless work­er if there ever was one; deserves to go far, and I know he will. 
I wonder what's become of : 
Tex Williams? Bill Murphy, '27, who went into advertising in Chica­go? [Ed's note: Murphy is doing very well with NBC in Chicago.] Those old roommates and gracious hosts, Jim Morrissey and Larry White? Paul Brady and that gther gay phi­losopher of Sorin Sub, the unforget­table Tom Walsh? Don Corbelt.? 
Charlie Homer? Art DenchSeld? Tom Happer and his Dayton prep pal, Al Tehan? Tom Lavelle? Ed McSween­ey? Maurice (The Wolf) McMena­min? Frank Strohm? George O'Bri­en.? Marty Ryan? Bill (NY) Kelly, and Art Stenius? 
Besides those already mentioned, some of the guys I'd like to see at the ten-year reunion in June, include: 
Bob Knox, Bill Leahy, Carroll Pinkley, Bernie Garber (why don't ya write?) Andy Boyle, Art Slavin, Leo Mclntyre, Art Canty, etc., etc. 
Regards to yourself and '28ers everywhere. 
The Professor dashed this off just before the final dogsled (before spring) left Middleton: 
Let me join with the rest of the class in saying that Jack Mullen did a fine job last month as "guest con­ductor." I assure the class that some plans for our ten-year reunion should be forthcoming soon, with such '28 men as the following on deck in South Bend and Mishawaka: Joe Benda, Andy Boyle, George O'Brien, Charlie DeGroote, Ron Rich, Floyd Searer, Burt Toepp, Ike Voedisch, Willard Wagner, Joe Braunsdorf, John Conboy, Bob Grant, Stanley Grinager, Alvin Hans, and Ernie Rieder. Drop them a line and let them know what you want and see to it that they get busy soon. 
Vince Carney and Connie Ochoa stopped in for a visit on their return trip from the Minnesota game. Con­nie arrived in the XT. S. about the middle of October and expected to be here until after Christmas. He ^^sited Bill Leahy, Carroll Pinkley, Bob Hellrung, '29, and John Igoe, in St. Louis. Later he visited with many of the gang in Chicago, went do^vn to school for the Pitt game and then went on to New York for the Army game. Frank Creadon, Connie reported, is the father of a daughter, and is in the insurance business in Riverside, Illinois, near Chicago. Tom Hart is also in the insurance game— in Chicago. 
The '28 class was well represented at the Minnesota game. Denny Daly, who is practicing law in St. Paul, had everything well planned for them. Connie Ochoa appeared on a radio program the night before the game, and was presented as having come the greatest distance for the affair. Tom Mahon got away from the stock market ticker long enough to greet the '28 men in St. Paul. Swede Schroeder was in from Detroit Lakes, Minnesota. 
Some of the old second floor Fresh­man Hall gang will be interested in the announcement in the birth column from Larry Englert from 2620 East Fourth Place, Tulsa, Okla­homa. This is the first word we have had from Larry since he left us in 1925. 
While we are on the subject of the old Freshman Hall gang, I might mention that rumor has it that Lyle Maloney is married. How about some particulars, Lyle? 
I am asking Dr. Frank Hegarty to write the column next month. Frank should be able, with your help, to give us a lot of information on the medics and the science men in the class, as well as a word about the Pittsburgh gang. Drop Frank a line before January 10 at the Medical Arts Building, Oakland, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. I would like some suggestions from the engineers as to whom they would like to have write the column for the March issue. 
1929 Secretary* Joseph P. McNamara, 231 
Wisconsin St., IndianapoUs. Indiana. 

PARADE OF PERSONALITIES: Probably the most imposing record of constructive achievement of re­cent graduates of the University is that which genial Jack Elder has es­tablished in the village of Chicago, Jack made quite a name for himself on the sports staff of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, but in 1932 he tackled about the toughest assign­ment in Chicago when he began di­recting the destinies of the Athletic Department of the Catholic Youth Organization. The successes which have been habitually his in this important work would seem miraculous to any one who didn't know Jack Elder. Due to his personality and the fact that his work has been an outstanding piece of character building, the move­ment \rhich had its origin with his efforts in 1932, has spread like wild fire over the entire nation and to some foreign countries. It has as its aim the promotion of educational, recreational, social and religious ac­tivities among the young people. No better form of Catholic Action can be imagined. ' 
Jack has the responsibility of more than 35,000 young athletes and has the whole-hearted assistance of Car­dinal Mundelein and Bishop Sheil. 
This month's parade of personali­ties will be a success mainly because Jack, who is a very busy man, took time out to come to the rescue of the class secretary. Here is some of the dope that Jack spilled: 
"I will be most happy, Joe, to help in this matter of rounding up some of our classmates and informing others of their whereabouts and their successes. Just recently I was in Cleveland and while there attended a Notre Dame luncheon at wWch I re­newed several old acquaintances, that of Otis Winehetter who is in the 
The Notre Dame Aiumnus December - January 
printing business, Frank Belting and Chuck Rohr — both are doing very well for themselves. .. . I was in Elgin, Illinois, last week and while there had the pleasure of renewing old acquaintances with Jim Tobin who is Dr. Tobin HOW, Ed Phelan, Phil Hemming^ who is also a doctor, and some other fellows from other classes. . . . 
In a recent visit to Detroit, in which our local boxing team took on the Detroit C.Y.O. team, I ran into Frank Crowe. Incidentally, Ed Crowe is head man of the Detroit C.Y.O. . . . Perhaps you heard that Spike Mc­Adams was married recently to a very fine young lady here in Chicago. . . . Frank Downs was in recently to see me, as was Tom Ryan who is with the Harley Davidson Motorcycle Company. Jimmy Williamson was in recently and invited me to go pheas­ant hunting •svith him, so it looks as though I might get in some hunting this fall. My duties as athletic di­rector often take me to many cities and towns throughout the countiy, and I often have the good fortune of running in to some of our old class­mates, 
A few years ago I passed through your fair city on many occasions en route to my home in Kentuckj-, but since 1935 I have not had many op­portunities because my entii-e family moved here and now reside in Oak Park, Illinois. I, of course, live %vith them being unmarried and with no propects in the immediate ofiing. I spent five months of this spring from Februarj' to July at the Catholic Uni­versity in Washington taking social work and while there assisted Dutch Bergman in coaching his football team in spring practice besides pick­ing up a little information about so­cial work from a scientific standpoint. Aside from these major items I am leading a verj- busy life keeping young by association with young peo­ple and keeping active by going about the many duties that befall an athletic director of such a tremen­dously large organization. 
The entire class was deeply shocked at the sudden death of Ed Walsh .. . a recent report from one of his clients reveals that Chuck Has­kell has arrived as one of the leading attorneys of Denver . . . Henry Has­ley of Fort Wayne reports that Joe Morrissey of Cincinnati recentl y spent an evening with him while in Fort Wayne on business; and that Oskar Rust and his wife of Greens-burg, Indiana, spent the memorable week-end of November sixth with the Hasleys, — and that they enjoyed the first three quarters of the Pittsburgh game immensely. . . . 
INTERVIEW OF THE MONTH: "Football produces leaders an d clean sportsmen because it is de­
cidedly a character building game. No, I don't believe that Frank Scully was right in his Liberty Magazine article in which he suggested that halfbacks become halfwits as the re­sult of their football competition." 
The opinion expressed is entitled to weight because it comes from one of Notre Dame's greatest tackles and team captains. 
It all came about this way: 
In moving, your interviewer ran 
across some clippings containing that 
great saga of Notre Dame football— 
the Minnesota game of eleven years 
ago in which A'otre Dame lost the 
services of Joe Boland and discov­
ered an Ail-American, Fred Miller. 
For The Juggler was accurate when 
it carried a fuU-page chalk-and-cray­
on frontispiece drawn by the talented 
Paul McElroy back in 1928, which 
referred to Captain Fred Miller as a 
"chip off the old Rock!" 
So it was that when the Minne­sota game came along this fall all Notre Dame men's mind went back to that historic day eleven years ago and thrilled to the drama of Fred Miller's first game with the Elue and Gold. Because of this interest it seemed fitting to interview him this month. 
Look the same ? — it seems mir­aculous but Fred Miller's appearance has not changed materially. Proba­bly the fact that he is still very ac­tive explains the fine physical condi­tion in which he keeps himself. As a matter of fact, there are some who suspect that Fred considers his great­est achievement since gi-aduation the fact that he has for three years been the state and city doubles and singles handball champion. And when some of the rest of us peer down at the bay window that we have acquired through the yeai-s we are inclined to realize what an achievement that is. Fred is the secretarj' and treasurer of the Carl Miller Lumber Company and holds the same offices in the Carl Miller Investment Company. In Au­gust, 1931, he demonstrated that good taste and good sense are his eminent characteristics when be mar­ried charming Adele Kanaley (yes, she's still entitled to that black type for her name because she is the bril­liant daughter of Byron V. Kanaley, president of the Board of Lay Trus­tees of the University.) 
Fred has four children: Claire, age five; Freddy, age three and one-half; Loretta, age tivo; and Katheiyn, age three weeks. Fred is quite active iii the alumni circles in Jlilwaukee and this interviewer found that Milwau­kee is everj' bit as proud of him as it is of some of its more highly touted advantages. Most any one that you meet in Milwaukee is anxious to tell you all the fine things they know about Fred Miller, but it wouldn't do to print them here because some one might get the idea that he was running for ofiice. 
Fred made the Layman's Retreat at Notre Dame last July and he said it was the most marvelous experience that he has ever been through. 
If you would like to have some endence to use in rebuttal to Frank Scully's propaganda that college foot­ball players turn out to be slug-happy charges on society I suggest that you ti-avel up and %'isit Fred Miller. 
Elmo Moyer, '29, General Electric Company, Schenectady, New York, was granted a patent on October 12 on an electric valve translating sys­tem. The patent was assigned to G. E. 
1930 Secretary: Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 
KeniseUi St, New Kensington. Pa. Professor Joe Apodaca on Novem­ber 3 scored heavily before the Round Table in South Bend with his paper on "The International Compli­cations of American Crop Restric­tions." 
* 
1931 Secretary: John Bersnn, «28 E. Col­
fax Ave.. South Bend, Ind. John Bergan comes through nobly —as ever. He reports: 
Many of the class have been ac­counted for by their presence at the football games during the past month. At the Southern Cal game were Paul Grant and his wife, up from Mattoon with Mr. and Mrs. Francis Henneberger of Princeton (Both Stumpy and Henny are looking prosperous and each have families of one); Tom Conley from Cleveland, Benny Oakes and Jim Doyle from Chicago, who were down for Clark Benkendorf's wedding in the morn­ing on the campus; Dr. Joe Hughes, who is practicing medicine in Colum­bus, Ohio; Tommy Yarr from Chica­go; Nick Bohling, the Chicago bar­rister, and Leo Model. 
At the Army game it was the ^vrit­er's pleasure to see Charlie Powers, up from old Savannah, Art McMan­mon, over from Boston, Johnny Burns of BrookljTi, Al Seymour, the truck­ing contractor from Malone, New York, Ed Cunningham, fi-om upstate New York, and Frank Kosky, the school teacher from Yonkers. Spent some time with Mr. and Mrs. Bud Tuohy, who were hosts at a big apple party in the McAlpin following the football game. Strange to say the only ones who did not indulge in the dance were Charlie Powers and Al Pabst from Bayside, Long "Island. Forest West and Bob McfCenna from South Bend were also at the game. The only Army game romance on rec­ord is that of John "Red" Foley, the North Tarrytown schoolmaster, who has been making weekly visits to 

December - January The Noire Dame Alumnus 97 
Rochester to see some one other than Johnny Donchel and Mart Dowling. 
Had a short visit in Rochester with John Oorschel, and he is now in charge of new business for the As­sociates Discount Company in the Rochester territory. Al Grisanti is still the genial manager of the Lake­side in Cleveland, and passes on word that George Kozac's high school team won the championship of Cleveland. Dr. George Wassell, in town for the Pitt game, has decided to practice medicine in Sharon, Pennsylvania, after the first of the year. Jack Saunders combined the Northwestern game with business for his firm and spent a short time in South Bend be­tween trains. 
So without further ado I give yon some interesting notes from some of our other class members— 
Ed Coomes, a member of the fac­ulty at Massachusetts Institute of Technologj' at Cambridge, relays this information: "I think all of the E.E.'s of '31 will be glad to hear of Mike Houlahan — one of our long lost brethren. I ran into Mike accident­ly in Pittsfield on my way to the Army game. Mike has got himself a job with the signal division on the 
B. and A. R. R. We can remember that Mike had an undying interest in i-ailroad signalling, even as an under­graduate at N.D. Mike still lives at his old address in North Agawam, Massachusetts, and from his enthu­siasm I am sure he would like to hear from Dan Egan, Jim O'Brien, and Alex Petrauskas." 
Ralph Dalton wi'ites: 
"Saw Bill Redmond in the offices of Halsey, Stuart & Company this Fall and he seems to be doing i-ather well. Jim Doyle has been down to our home twice since the first of the year, and I believe that he is looking for one of our corn-fed girls with a big bank-roll that can help him along in the bond business and in the busi­ness of matrimony. 
"Barney McGIone was in the bank for a minute the other day and stated that he was %vith the J. L. Simmons Construction Company of Blooming­ton and Springfield, so I hope to see more of him. 
"Larry Moller dropped in last month and could stay only a minute as he had to get back to his lumber business in Quincy. 
"Phil Airey very fortunately came into the bank for some change while he was in town doing some snooping on the employees of the local chain stores. He works for the Wilmark Systems which sei-vices all of the big chains like, Montgomery Ward, Sears, etc. 
"Tom Ditchfield was in the bank several times to cash his check while he was doing some special work for the Illinois Central railroad around Bloomington. 
"Ran into Gene Coyle at St. Mary's (Chicago) three o'clock Mass but did not get to talk to him very long except that he was still in ac­counting. Would like to hear from him. 
"Bob Conness is still in Streator and is running the farms for his fam­ily and seems to be doing very nice­ly as he looked well and prosperous. 
"Don Mihan was in town last Win­ter to speak before a local luncheon club in regai'd to the sound effects that take place in a radio studio, and I assure you that he did a very fine job and certainly made me feel proud of the fact that he was a classmate of mine and also a friend. I do hope he can come back again. 
"Joseph Meitzler and Bill Brown are located in Danville, and I hear that Joe is doing well in the cigar business and Bill is an instructor or investigator on the WPA. 
"Father Bourke Motsctt and I have seen a great deal of each other, and I am expecting him over for dinner some time this month. He is now lo­cated in Kewanee, Illinois, at Visita­tion parish and is doing a verj' nice job. Saw Bill Leppert, Bill Habing and Frank Noll in Indianapolis. Both Bill Habing and Bill Leppert are sell­ing insurance and Frank is a prac­ticing attorney. 
"Tell any of the class that they are welcome, at my home and I do hope that none of them pass through the little city of Bloomington, Illi­nois, without at least stopping in to say 'hello.' I am located at the Com Belt Bank and am glad to see them at any time." 
Don O'Toole, Chicago's South side realtor, writes: 
"Phil Angsten is still a bachelor and is in the insurance business downtown with his brother, Ray. Nick Bohling, also a bachelor, man­ages to break out in print ever once in a while in connection with his legal activities with Ditchbume & Louns­buiy. Walt Cahill, who married Mary Leahy of St. Marj^'s, '31, is now a proud father. I don't know whether it's a boy or girl. 
"Ray Collins has appeared quite frequently. He is in the printing business. Gene Coyle, still a bach­elor, is now with some governmental department in Washington in an ac­counting capacity. Bob Gore is dividing his time between business in the city and his farm at Lake Zurich. Frank Holland, just as jovial as ever, is moving right along with a broker­age firm on LaSalle Street. 
"Jim Kearney has adopted a very serious demeanor and is teaching law at one of the local colleges. John Radosevich has been too busy lun­ning two or three groceries in South Chicago to make any of the gather­ings. Bob Baer, still single, is-now with Ditto, Inc. Gil Seaman is a partner in the enterprising insurance firm of Boyle, Flagg and Seaman. 
"Bob Smith has been for some time with the International Harvester Company on the West Side. Al Stepan has become a veritable tycoon in the chemistry field and has two dandy children. Ed Ryan, who joined the ranks of the proud papas this summer, is vice-president of Interna­tional Railweld Corporation. Bemie Thompson has two children and has a flourishing florist shop. Bob Pen­dergast and Jim Rich, both single, are practicing law with O'Connor and Rubinkam. Vince Ponic is with his father's law firm. 
"Frank Chambers is with the Elec­tromotive Corporation in McCook, Illinois. Joe Kirby has been too busy selling air-conditioning installations to make any of the meetings. When last heard from Bob Cunningham was selling life insurance for the Union Central Life Insurance Co." 
Martin Wider sends word that his new address is 16210 Princeton, De­troit, and that Matt Garrigan is now in Port Huron, Michigan, with Fire­stone. 
Joseph P. Kelly, according to re­cent dope, is a graduate student in Columbia University. 
1Q^9 Seeretair: Herbert Giorsia, 900C 
*'•** 18Sth St. HoIIi.. L. t. New York. Herb Giorgio writes: 
Just a few lines about the boys I saw during the Army game week-end and since the last time I wrote: 
Jim O'Connor of Springfield is working in Boston. Don Ryan of Chicago is working in New York. Walt Noonan of Framingham is working in Springfield. Gene Con­nelly, Walt Kiolbasa, Joe Kennedy, Sa! Bontempo, Myles Mullen, Les McLaughlin, Larry Darrow, Jim Curry, Jack Finneran, Jerry Finner-an, Ray Boyce, Jim Dunnigan, Ben Oakes, Leo Clark, Wee Harrington and wife (not the children) Tom Ma­haffey's brother and wife (nee Elea­nor Kirby) and many others, includ­ing Bill Slader, Ward. Willigan, Weir. Weiner, and Shiebler. were around the night before the Army game. am writing this from memory which is a bit foggy. If I have missed a lot of the boys, I wish they'd write and tell me. 
Ed Melchione's sister is in New York preparing for her trip to Holly­wood. 
At the Navy game in South Bend with Leo McLaughlin and BUI Slader, I saw George Hennion, £d O'Malley, George Bondurant, Frank 0*Malley, et »L Jim Trotter and Leo McLaugh­lin were married that day, but not to each other. 
Ray Disco, '31, is in the Probation Bureau of General Sessions Court, New York. 
A recent letter from Fred Snile tells us that the Oelerich, Igoe, Ged­de», Higgins and the rest of the Chi­cago boys are doing fine. I'd certain­ly like to hear from them once in a while. It would be very easy for all the boys to send me a Christmas card with some information about them­selves on the card. Merry Christmas to all. 
1933 Secretary: Donald WIK. 110 Fleuant 
^"•"^ St. joiirt. n. 

193 4 Secretary: Jamei Moecow. 2320 N. Lawndale Ave., Chicaeo. HI. 
These choice bits from Sec. Mos­cow: 
The choicest bit of news this month comes from Brooklyn in the form of a most welcome and inter­esting letter from Charlie Heckel­mann. A married man since April, Charlie reports that he has become manuscript editor of Cupples and Leon Company, New York publishers. Since working for them he has had three novels published under his pen name, Charles Lawton. Probably a great number of us have read "Clark­ville's Batteiy," "Eos Hackney — Halfback," and "Jungle Menace," a Frank Buck epic, without realizing that they were written by one of our own illustrious alumni. 
Charlie went on to tell that Jack Bracken is associated with the Brook­lyn Edison Company, and is bursting with pride (and a little extra weight to boot) over the arrival of a baby girl, Patricia Ann. Congratulations to Jack and Mrs. Bracken. 
Charley Quinn is now in the oil business with his dad on Long Island. 
Spotted over the Northwestern game week-end in Chicago were Ray Gilger with a very charming young lady and John "Brute" Begley. Brute frequently asserted that his trip from Cleveland was strictly business, but that inimitable grin of his seemed to lessen the conviction of his tone. However, we learned that Brute is doing extremely well in the new Hos­pitalization Fund drive, and sincerely hope he continues his well-deserved progress. 
Just as the name Amos suggests Andy, so Begley connotes Venables and we find John actively engaged in the Securities business in Cleve­land. Tony Anslovar works for a coal company in the same city. While on the subject of Cleveland, — John 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Ruppei, living in Chicago, took unto himself a bride at Notre Dame in October. Looks like us '34 bachelors will soon be able to crowd our con­stituency into the Walsh Hall tele­phone booth. What do you think. Kief? 
Having glanced at the November ALUMNUS, we wish to apologize for an error. Norb Schenkel, and not Norb Schrenker, was the October In­dianapolis bridegroom. Of course, maybe we were psychic and Schrenk­er also should be congratulated, but we cannot be quoted without affirma­tion. 
Another pleasant surprise was the uncovering of Bud Vitt, now living in Chicago. Bud and his Mrs. seem to have only one regret—^that is Chi­cago's frigid winter temperatures. . 
Carl Zimmerer, one of Doctor Cooney's stars in other days and now a leading staff writer for the South Bend Tribune, was in New York in November to attend in the Waldorf-Astoria hotel a safety seminar for newspapers in 50 important cities of the country. The conference lasted for several days. 
A few weeks after his visit to the campus and Mid-West Paul McManus wrote from Boston as follows: 
In Chicago I talked—^via telephone —^with Frank Matthys, who took his law degree at N. D. a year ago. He has passed the Illinois bar exams and is in the legal department of some in­surance company. On the return trip I dropped in on Joe Glennon in East Orange, New Jersey, and Larry Gross in White Plains, New York. Joe is engaged in some complicated chemical business having to do with alcohol and can tell you just what was in that gin that made you think you were Mussolini. Larry made his way through some night law course— at St. John's, I think he told me—^got up out of a sick bed to take his bar exams, and smashed them right be­tween the eyes. He said he didn't know how on earth he did it. Now he is well established in the law de­partment of some Aid Society. 
Both Joe and Larry are married, and Larry has a ten-month old son. I could only view this young party for a very few moments, because he was pounding his ears at the time. I was not surprised. I have travelled a good deal further than White Plains, and have met with similar re­ceptions. At any rate, I am able to report to my fellow classmates of '34, that the individual at present looks very much like his father. It is hoped that the years may wrought some change in this unfortunate condition, but— on further thought—^who are we to Question the inscrutable ways of the Eternal. 
December - January 
193 5 SeereUir: frmaUm C Hochreitsr, 11 Brunswick Blvd, Buffalo. N. Y. 
Preferring Buffalo shuffling to Michigan dogsleds, Hoch is now with the Buffalo Catholic Charities. Here he is: 
We've been asked to "boil 'er down this month because of the lack of space available. The "rag" is coming out late this time and Janu­ary will be skipped altogether. So it all means that we will have to cram what we know in a smaller space with fewer comments. Anyway, here goes: 
liate last month came a missive from Ed Simpson out Chicago way. Ot the present time Ed is working for the Illinois Bell Telephone Company in Harvey, Illinois. He has been as­signed to the Commercial Department in the suburban area. 
Our midwestem friend sent in the dope that he had had a letter from Dick Hyde and that Dick is associ­ated with the Shell Petroleum Cor­poration in Des Moines, Iowa, the home town, where he is reputed to be employed as an accountant. 
At this point we must apologize to our "reading public" (if any) for neglecting to read the society column of the October ALUJINUS and to ex­tend proper felicitations to those of our number who took certain "steps" during the summer and early fall. It was Ed's comment in his letter to the effect that he would like us to offer congratulations and "good luck" to Harry Shephard that brought us around. 
Checking back we found that Fal­more Bath Harris took to himself a bride on September 4 in Sacred Heart Church on the campus. How­ever, there was no mention of friend Harry. Sorry Ed, but that's all the info we have. 
But we do want to extend the felicitations of the class formally to the following on their ."leap for bet­ter or for worse." To Falmore Har­ris and his bride, and also to Joe John, who was married on the same day, same place as Falmore, John Tingley, who solemnized his marriage in Norwich, Connecticut, on Septem­ber 11, and to Bob Donahue, who was married in Alunmi Hall chapel on October 5. Lots of the best, fellas! May your wives refuse to nag, your children refuse to cry, and your employers refuse to fire you! 
Along about the second week of November came a long and interest­ing letter from down St. Louis coun­try. The author was that golf gen­ius of note—Wade Kelleher. Wade is the junior member of the Kelleher Motor Freight Lines. The Missouri boy seems to be working at the job pretty hard as he informed us that he "had to have a mastoid operation to take a vacation." But Wade's not 

December - January The Notre Dame Alumnus 
complaining as he says that his Dad has given him a "wonderful chance." 
Wade told us that he is still hang­ing on the comers with A! Ravarino. As we recall, they were inseparable back in the "gool ole days." As for Bill Frethi, Wade states that he is "still hanging on to his heavy crop of hair." 
Though we were out in Indiana for the Navy game we did not see you, Wade—sorry. Glad that you men­tioned seeing Joe Argus, Bil! Slat­tery and Ford going strong. As far as we know. Wade, Curby and Curby Trucking Company is no relation to Ed or Bill Kirby of Sorin. You will note that the spelling is different, too. 
In the middle of November came a short note from some individual signed "John." We have no idea who the gentleman might be other than that he wrote from Detroit. Any way, here is the story—"Ray Brett was seen at the Navy game escorting the superintendent of public schools, Mr. Prank Cody, and a well known merchant of Detroit, Mr. M. Himmel­hoch." There you are gang—^that's as much as we know! As for "John" —how about a word of identification? 
We were out to the Navy game, too, and had quite a session in and about the town for a week previous. We saw very few of the crowd with the exception of Line Wurzer, whom we met in the HofFmann bar, and Jim Corregan later in the Maroon Club. As the official escort for the "making of the rounds" we had Luke Kelley of our Sorin days. Previously we told you all about Luke, so we have nothing further to add except that he makes a very fine "contact man." 
Of course, we saw Prexie Proctor and enjoyed dinner, and an evening with Tom. Sorry that we didn't keep the appointment in the Hoifmann Saturday evening, Tom old boy—^but we got "tied up" after the game until nearly midnight. Believe it or not you will be getting a letter one of these days. In the meantime—"hold everything!" 
One afternoon "lately we had the good fortune to run into John Pet­tingill of Watkins Glen, New York. John looks good, and evidently is ab­sorbing a lot of the fresh lake air out at Fort Niagara on the Niagara River —^Lake Ontario shore. We under­stood from our "down state" '35er that he is with the Department of the Interior. He just came up recently from New York where he was doing some work for the same department. 
John told us that Ed CuUen has contacted him the past few months, and that Ed is working in Boston for the Hood Rubber Company. 
The correspondence has been quite sparse this month, so that we are not able to pass on to you much "dope." How about digging in, fellas, and dropping us at least a card to let us know what you are doing or where you are these days? After all, we can't keep up the old "spirit" and the real class contacts that we set out to maintain unless you cooperate. Let's make the next ALUMNUS in February a gala return to the old strides we held last year and in November. What do you say? 
For those of you who are interest­ed, here is the latest information on your "scribe." While we were out in South Bend in October we were recommended, and appointment was made for us to be interviewed by the Juvenile Coordinating Council of Midland, Michigan. Going up there we were feted and dined by the town's better folk, and the prospects looked rather good for a job the first of the year. However, early this month. Catholic Charities, Inc., of Buffalo, called us in and said that our application had been considered and accepted and that we could start to work Immediately. Two months' sal­ary sounded mellow, and the posi­tion had definite prospects for a good opportunity in the future. We took it and started on November 8. 
The title—"Case Consultant." The place—St. Vincent de Paul Depart­ment of Catholic Charities of Buffalo. They gave us an office, a steno, a phone, an ediphone, and a private washroom. If that spells "success" then we attained it. But query?? Our work consists of taking all "first interviews," half of the "contined interviews" and visitation of the dio­cesan St. Vincent de Paul parish con­ferences, and organizing new ones. After you bite all that off there's not much time left to frolic and banter. 
Here's to a really Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year—and more letters from the gang as a New Year's present. 
Ray Calces sends a note from Can­ton, Ohio, front. He says that Glenn Dubs is an engineer ^vith the Repub­lic Steel Company there and that Paul Hockwalt is in the offices of Hercules Motors. Ray also reported that Rob­ert "Pete" Streb, '32, was that week (early November) running for city treasurer of Canton, but there has so far been no word on the outcome of the election. 
1<)3fi Jolin Monm, Gl E. 95th St. Apt. t.
ij700 ^^ York City. 
Dan Youngerman, who is in charge 

of the Speech Department in St. Am­brose College, Davenport, Iowa, was the director recently of a play, "Girl-Shy," presented by the Ambrosian Players. 
Minus the lovely letter which ac­companied them, here are Tammany Moran's charming notes: 
Well, the Army game has come and gone—and not even the poaring rain throughout the contest could dampen the spirits of the horde of Notre Dame grads who congregated in little Old New York for the occa­sion. This particular game attracts alumni from all over the country, and especially from the eastern part of these United States, where the grads are not able to see Notre Dame teams play very often. 
This year's contest was no excep­tion. The class of 1936 was very much in evidence during the celebra­tion in the Pennsylvania Hotel on Saturday evening. Your secretary was kept so busy shaking hands that he may be pardoned if he can't recall all those who were present. The roll call follows: 
Mickey Dendler, now in his second year at Penn Law School, came np from Philly for the week-end and bunked with your secretary in the Moran pent-house. Doc Caspar, who is going to Med School in Philly, came along with Jlickey. 
At the Pennsylvania on Saturday night was Joe Weiu, who came all the way from Michigan to see the game and to tell me that he wants be listed as a member of the 1936 class, even though he stayed over till 1937. O.K., Joe—and let's hear from you occasionally. Also at the Penn were Frank Martin, Tommy Gorman, Ralph Cardinal, Roman Belmont and Jack Britton, who claipis the rumors of his marriage are a bit premature. Jack is working in the adjustment de­partment of a New Yojk insurance firm. 
Al Carey showed up with a patch across one eye where a golf ball hit him (according to Al). From Syra­cuse came Jack Cashin, who is going to law school, and Tommy Meagher, who also came down for the game. Charley Clark, who goes to Ford­ham Law at night, showed up in dis­guise— wearing a derby. Another Clark, Phil, stated that he is working for the J. Walter Thompson Advertis­ing Agency here in New York. 
Jim Dutton came in from Connect­icut where he is in charge of the claims section in the Internal Reve­nue office in Hartford. Joe Fox says that he is going to Harvard Business School, while Fred and Louie Gabriel informed me that they are at Jeffer­son Med School in Philadelphia, as is Jack Bray. Ed Donahue is at Colum­bia Med, Conme Byrne is going to Law school at night in Philadelphia, while Jess Hawley is taking his Blackstone in Washington and work­ing for, • I believe, the Interstate Commerce Commission. 
Also saw Paul Cnmmings, Ed Dunn, Dan Hanrahan, Biff Flannery, Doc Murray, John Odenbacb, Jim Quinn, another embryonic doctor, Joe 
The Notre Dame Alumnus December - January 
Schmidt, Jack Shelly, and Ed Sulli­van. Another Sullivan, Joe, was around on Friday evening, but didn't get to the game as he was leaving next morning for Cleveland. Joe, who comes from Norwichton, Con­necticut is working for the Firestone Company. 
Bill Smith, Pepper Martin, Walt Matusevich, Andy Hugnagel, Jim Sherry, Jim Kirby, Bud Veravet were also on hand. Joe MacDonald in­formed me that he is working for the Western Union at its office at Broad­way and 75th Street. Mac reports that Joe Prendergast is now with a printing firm in Illinois, I believe. Prendergast was best man at Spots Manning's recent wedding. Bill Walsh passed on the information that Ed Hammer is studying for the priest­hood. 
A large delegation came in from Chicago. Among thi s contingent were Luke Tiernan, who is still at Notre Dame for his last year of law, and Tom Grady, who extolled the virtues of the canned meat outfit which now employs him. TOM dem­onstrated that he can still t%virl a baton by leading an American Legion Drum and Bugle Coi-ps in a few Notre Dame numbere in the Penn Grill Saturday night. 
Bill Belden stated that he is work­ing for his Dad's brick works back in Canton, Ohio, while Bill Buckley, who claims to be publicity shy, is ^vith the Standard Acceptance Cor­poration in Waterburj-, Connecticut. Bill wanted to get the addresses of Vinnie Curran and Jack Sheeban, I believe, so will you boys -n-rite Buck­ley at 111 West Main Sti-eet and keep him happy. Lin Phoebus was up from Philadelphia for the game. Lin is working on one of the Philly papers, but which one has slipped my mind, although Mickey Dendler did give me. that information. 
.A.nd that winds up the -A.rmy game get-together for another year. Every­body had a gi-and time, and the only sour note was that the 7-0 score did not even faintly show the suprem­acy of the "Fighting Irish" eleven over the Kaydet squad. 
In the mail this month was a letter from Ted Daley, who -(vi-ites that he is going to Loyola Med School in Chicago and liring at 3521 Jackson Boulevard. Ted reports that George Meagher, one-time broad jumper and track captain, is at Illinois Med School, while Fred Cox, Don McKay and Ken Laws, when last heard from, were at Northwestern Med. 
Jerry Vogel wrote in from the University of Chicago School of So­cial Service Administration to state that he is li\'ing at 750 South Inde­pendence Boulevard and expects to get his M.A. from Notre Dame next Jane. 
Charley Fitzsimons came through with a note to the eflfect that he had just completed a month's preliminary flight training in the U.S. Naval Air Reserve base at Grosse lie, llichigan, and expected to be called shortly for a ten month's training period to Pen­sacola, Florida. Fitz can be reached by wi-iting him at the U. S. Naval Aviation Base, Pensacola, and mark­ing A\'iation Cadet after his name. Bud Goldman, as reported in last month's column, is also in Florida, more specifically, Miami Beach. 
Jim KuH sent in a very interesting and newsy letter. Jim reports that after graduation he was employed by the S. S. Kresege Co. in Lansing, Michigan, but his health broke down and he spent three weeks in a hos­pital, and most of last winter recup­erating at home. -A.t present Jim is connected with the General Electric Supply Corporation in Detroit and is doing very well. He passes on the information that his ex - roommate, Johnny O'Malley, is working with his dad in the lumber business in Phoe­nix, Arizona, that Dick Sullivan, after gi\'ing up his law studies at the University of Michigan to undergo an opei-ation, has returned to Notre Dame to finish up his law work. Jim can be reached at 732 Van Dyke -A.venue, Detroit. This should be of interest to Dan Malloy and Bill Quirk who owe Jim a couple of letters. 
-4^nd speaking of letters reminds me that in last month's column, I erroneously listed Tom Vicars as ha\-ing -sxTitten of his trip to Wash­ing. It should have been Tommy Campbell. 
That winds up the mail for this month. Keep the letters coming as this column will be short of material when the snow flies and the football season is over. Since Christmas is "just around the comer," along with several other things, I'll take this op­portunit>' to wish the class of 1936 a Merry Yuletide, and a prosperous New Year. I trust the new year will bring a good many letters from some of you whose whereabouts are still unknown, even at this date. 
Recent reports from Pacific Coast indicate that Jim Burke, of Lemoore, California, is really going to town as. a salesman for the Travelers Insur­ance Company. 
* 
1937 Secretary: Paul Foley. 327 Liberty Street, Pontine. Michisan. Beating the deadline by a bright red hair to dash in with a spot of news in re the most recent readers of ALUMNUS. And all is skittles and beer now that the boys, or at least a few of them, have found the corre­spondent's address and are winging in a little information. This month's mail brought three long tomes—all from eastern representatives of the 
clan, all supersaturated with names, dates and occurrences — which all goes to prove something or other. But it is a great deal better to dash off these lines with a little real am­munition instead of some vaporous musings. 
First of the lads to be heard from, and not unusual either, was Howie Murdock, demon of the air waves who has carried on from his lowly start in the high press box. He is now something or other with the Na­tional Broadcasting Co., for whom it is said to be very profitable to be something or other. Howie relates that he is an advance man whose job it is to be a week ahead of the "spot news broadcaster" arranging fo r everything from telegraph poles to purple pen wipers. In short, or other­wise, he has travelled some 12,000 miles since he grabbed his diploma. Of course, Howie had a running start, but that is something of a sprint. He must ha%'e been scared to death. 
In Howie's letter, emblazoned on the N.B.C. letterhead, obviously pur­loined somewhere, he brings news of many of the lads. 
It seems that something vaguely referred to as a "Pennsyh'ania Re­union" occuri'ed at the Pitt game. Present, so claims the ever-present Murdock, were Frank Egan, who is alleged to be selling insurance in Pittston, Pennsylvania, where insur­ance is as necessary as is a healthy breakfast. Still, Egan is reported losing more hair than ever and is probably still lugging an anchor, anvil and apartment-sized bathtub around his neck on a silver chain in memory of someone. 
Will Kirk was also reported by shepherd Murdock. Will is curtly referred to as "a banker in N.Y.C." Which is something to be curt about. It is said he is ashamed to let his mother know his occupation. She thinks he's playing piano in a Tenth .A.venue speakeasy. 
Next on the list was Bill "I Seen It" Foley—^though what he was do­ing as far west as Pennsylvania is something of a mystery. He'll have to confess that when he gets around to St. Pat's in BrookljTi. Bill is re­ported in Tammany Hall, which is a nice place to throw a peaceful fit. Undoubtedly Bill has the "foist of the foist" in his hip pocket by now. 
John McCarthy was also on the scene. He left a prospering plumb­ing establishment in Denver to make the trip. Plumping is nice, relates Murdock, it's a pipe and you see all the good joints. (Murdock said it.) 
Bob Gehres, Frank Hardart and Mike Scully were all in the same bail-wick. All three of the lads are at­tempting to battle their way through Columbia Medical School. It seems 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
that from another source we heard something about Hardart and a gor­geous "daughter of Eve" at the Army game. Of course, we open ourselves to a libel suit as long as your arm on that one, but it was re­ported and, after all, we also serve who only report. (Westfield, New Jersey, paper please copy Hardart note) 
John Phillips is running the gaunt­let at Georgetown Medical School. When he's not spending too much time with that New York debutante. (If they live east of Watkins Glen, New York, they're debutantes.) 
-•V great weight was removed from 
these editorial shoulders when word 
was finally received from Delancey 
Davis. Murdock reports he saw him 
husky as the number three shot 

putter at St. JIaiy-of-the-Woods. But 
at least he has been seen. "The 
Ghost Walks"—"Alas, Poor Yorick.'" 
However, Delance is said to be pros­
pering in Schenectady. This latter 
report comes from our New Jersey 
correspondent, Jimmy Waldron, who 
also popped thi-ough with a dandy 
letter. The ex-promoter seems to be 
doing pretty well on his own hook— 
battling the law books. 
Most unbelievable of all the item.­to trickle in was one referring to one Charlie "Ace" Roggenstein- In sol­emn seriousness it was reported that Charles, the pride of Long Island, is studying at Columbia Law School. We hope for an early denial from Rockville Centre, providing the pass is still open to travel. It doesn't seem right for "Our Charlie" to be bui'dened with such woes. 
John "Boff" Cavanaugh was re­ported still about. He was last seen heading north by northeast for a jam session being conducted by somebody or other. In the same genei-al group we heard rumblings of "Judge" Walsh, Jack Bartley, who should be an ichthyoligist long before now, the 
• Huisking brothers, one and all, and Bill McNally. 
Concerning Bill McNally — he's gone and done it — he is operating a liquor store in or near New York. We haven't heard of any name for it as yet but rumor says it "McNally's Silver Dollar Bar"—with a "Family Entrance," swinging doors and every­thing. But that's probably untrue. .Anyway, Bill's prospering and that .shouldn't be news. 
Pinky Carroll was reported around and about, still gi-owing taller and pushing through his hair. Jim Wal­dron relates the joy in the Carroll menage when Pinky's sister cracked through with a .$150,000 prize on the Irish Sweepstakes. (Got a coupla bucks for a cup of coffee?) 
Joe "Double Dip" Quinn is still beaming and was at the Pitt game to prove it. He and Tom Grady did a little plain and fancy baton whirling for the benefit of the benighted na­tives. 
Word has drifted in of John Met-calf who is busy gilding the lily as a salesman for the Sherwin-Williams Paint Co.—they cover the earth. 
Word also came on the grapevine fro m John Byrne. "Bucko," of course, is not a stranger in these wild Jlichigan parts since he was here on October 30 to don on a claw hammer coat and carry a wedding ring . . . not for himself, however, as yet. John relates that many things came to pass in New York at the .A.rmy game. 
In the slim crowii John was able to see Butch Bruno, who is teaching English some place according to Byrne. Also in the week-end crowd at various times, wei-e Gene Cattie and Ed Lynaugh, fine upstanding lads who, Byrae says, "were as thick as Orangemen on St. William's day." 
Another of the Harvard Law School boys has turned up in the person of John IVIarbach. In the same bieath comes word from George Feeley—he is operating some sort of .-ihell game or "watch-em-go" device at Coney Island. "The cane you ring is the cane you get." He went in training for this post several sum­mers age when he and Delancey Davis went on the road with "Every­man's Elixir" and wound up with two potted aspidistra plants and an Elk's tooth. But, our informant says, George is doing very well and was dapper as a duke. 
We must break down and confess that in the whirl of moving into a new apartment we have misplaced one letter we wanted to save very much—the one from Jim Waldron. Please write again very soon, Jim, and we promise a quick answer. By the way, is the Bengal Bout fever hitting you yet? 
Which also reminds us that Don Hanning, he who suffered in last year's bouts, was heard from recent­ly and is reported in tip-top shape. 
This sort of thing has gone on long enough — especially when we're not on space rates. Please note the new address of this department and pop a lot of letters in here—the more the merrier and they'll be answered, eventually. 
Paul Smith send s encoui'aging word from Hinton, West Virginia, where he is a teacher and assistant coach in Hinton High School. In late October his football team had won six straight, with two to go. 
BLACKHAWK HOTELS 
Conveniently located in business and amusement centers. Hotels of surpas­sing hospitality, where your guests may enjoy complete relaxation in quirt rooms, and delicious foods, served in air cooled restaurants. You can recom­mend any of the six Blaclihawit Hotels with confidence. 
iiS^i. 
DttVENPOBT Sffr 
-*»?. 

Outstanding Service Luxurious Comfort Moderate Rates 
BmCKHPUJK HOTELS 
Copyright 1957. LlGCLTT & MVlRS TODACCO Co. 








