The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
•'•.T".:: = ' »­
"O 6. © 
\ ! 
.\ ' 

\ 
o 

98th Year Begins 
(See Page 3) 

I'cnitc Ad Mc Oiitnes 

Vol. 18 OCTOBER, 1939 Nc 
The Notre Dame Alumnus October. 1939 


sirx/ 

The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
From the Hox. JAMES P. GOODRICH, LL.D. 1917, former Governor of Indiana To found the Goodrich-Cavanaugh Prizes (of. story) ..5 5,040.00 
From THE MOST REVEREND FRANCIS J. SPELLMAX, D.D., LL.D. '35 A set of brevaries used by His Holiness Pope Benedict XV From the REV. JOHN A. O'BRIEN (Diocese of Peoria, Illinois) A collection of books From the REV. JOSEPH T. BAUER (Diocese of Indianapolis, Indiana) A collection of coins and Papal medals From ROBERT A. GOLDEX, '31, and MISS MARY MURPHY, Scranton, Pa. For the Archives — An original copy of the Republican Journal, of Danbury, Conn, of October 16, 1797 From J. WALTER HAXXOX, Indianapolis, Ind., and DR. J. 0. PERRIXE, New York City (Bell Telephone Company) 
Materials for the Communications Laboratory  
From PARAMOUXT PICTURES, IXC.  
A  sea of musical orchestrations for the Music Department  
From HEXRY EWING BROWX, '02  
For  a scholarship in graduate Philosophy  $  500.00  
AxoxYMOUS — Alumnus '37  _  40.00  
AxoxYMOUS — for the Medieval Library Fund  ;  1,000.00  
For  Apologetics Scholarships:  
Previously acknowledged  $ 5,670.76  
ANONYMOUS  ,  6,000.00  
PROFESSOR ANDRE^V T. SMITHBERGER, M.A. '27  :  25.00  
D. TROY HAILS  5.00  
FRANCIS D . PARTLAN, '32  10.00  
Total  ,.  $11,710.76  
For  the Julius A. Nieuwland Foundation:  
Previously acknowledged  ;  1  552,864.61  
ANONYMOUS PROFESSOR HENRY C. STAUNTOX..  -  13,153.15 50.00  
WiLBERT L. TERRE , '31  25.00  
HOWARD H . HART  1.00  
Total  _  _  S66,093.76  
James B. Ash, 'o3. South Bend S u.OO Miss Mona Crowley, Kearney, N. J-1.00 Richard L DeVine, Provfdcnce. R. I... 20.00 Francis L. Adrian, Pleasantville, N. Y.. 8.00 C. C. Childs, Washington, D.C_ 2.50 E. M. Downey. N. Arlington, N. J. 10.00 Genevieve Abel, Newark, N. J. 1.00 F. R. Cawley, "33; Washington, D.C 5.00 Leonard Donnelly, LaSalle, III.. 1.00 Atlas Wrecking Co., Philadelphia 3.00 Most Rev. James E. Cassid}-, LL.D., '32, William A. Daunt, '08, L. Is.. N. Y 10.00 



For the Rockne Memorial 

(Contributions entered from June 21 to September 21. 1939, inclusive) 
D. E. Ahems, Detroit, Mich .-..00 Fall River, Mass. 7.00 James Dick, Elizabeth, N. J 2.00 
A. C. Anderson, Detrtjit, Mich. ii.OO Hon. Edward A. CoSey. Salem. 10.00 Carl W. Diedrick, Sandusky, O 5.00 
C. H. Cbghlan, Detroit. Mich.. 1.00 Joseph Dwyer, Detroit. Mich I.OO Mrs. Wade J. Brady, Joliet. HI-100.00 Armstrong Crawfus, Detroit, Mich» 1.00 A. T. Davis, Detroit, Mich. 5.00 Mrs. Margaret E. Burd, Wilkinsburg-6.00 Ruth P. Callan, Newark, N. J 6.00 E. C. DeBoenc, Detroit, Mich-3.00 R, BeU. Union City, N. J 1.00 Thomas J. Casey, New York City— 5.00 Howard A. Deeter, Fontiac Mich 5.00 Richard Bowen. Detroit, Mich 1.00 Dark's Lunch Rooms, South Bend— 10.00 S. M. DuBrul, Jr., Grosse Pointc, Mich.- 1.00 Georee D. Byrne. '28. Brooklyn-10.00 N. J. Christman, '32, Green Bay, Wis 5.00 P. F. Dickrager, Detroit, Mich-1.00 Thad J. Bednard, '27, Aurora. Ill 2.00 Joseph Convery, Bloomlield, N. J 5.00 F. W. Eichler, Sea Bright, N. J.. 
;6.oo 

Timothy E. Beniti, '32, New York City-5.00 James A. Cantwell, Elizabeth, N. J_ 1.00 E. E. Ehlert, Chicago, Hi­
1.00 

George N. Berry, Salem, Mass 5.00 Herbert G. Callan, Newark. N. J 5.00 
Elizabeth M. Ebersold, Hartford, Conn.- 2.00 
N. O. Bums. "88, Hamilton, O 5.00 Andrew T. Court, Detroit. Mich 2.00 George J. Bauman, Chicago, Ill™_™ 1.00 William J. Cronin, Detroit. Mich 6.00 Michael J. Flynn, Wilmettc, HI-_ 6.00 
H. F. Beechinor. '06, Detroit, Mich 1.00 Dr. B. W. CJark, Detroit, Mich 1.00 B. F. Fallon, Houston, Texas-. _ 10.00 Anthony Bodde. Detroit. Mich.. 10.00 H. L. dark, Detroit, Mich 10.00 Andriannc Fredericks, Detroit, Mich 1.00 Dr. & Mrs. John A. Barger. SL Louis— I.OO G. R. Cramer, Detroit, Mich 1.00 George J. Fredericks, Detroit, Mich 1.00 Thos. E. Brick. Indianapolis. Ind 5.00 H. G. Carron, Detroit. Mich_ 1.00 Norman J. Fredericks, '35, Detroit 16.00 
E. R. Biggins. *35, Speedway. Ind 2.00 Miss Fae Donzc, Santa Barbara, Calif 1.00 Morris M. Frohlich, New York City 1.00 Stanley E. Beattie, Detroit, Mich 1.00 Eliza. M. Downey. N. Arlington, N. J~. 10.00 Robert E. Fitzsimmons, Brooklyn. N. Y._ 6.00 Stanley A. Beattie, Detroit, Mich 1.00 Tony De Rocco, Monessen, Pa 1.00 I^o J, Fanarjian, Newark, N. J 5.00 Henry T. Brcnnan, Detroit, Mich 5.00 Aldcn E. Davis, Notre Dame, Ind 35.00 E. F. Foley. Caicago, HI 5.00 Dr. Harvey F. Brown, '24, Detroit !5.00 Jos. F. Donahue, '12, South Bend 60.00 William Fitzgerald, '23, N. Vernon. Ind.- 10.00 
r. E. Cislak. '26, Indianapolis. Ind.___ 5.00 Russell H. Downey, '16, South Bend 25.00 Volney Fowler. Detroit, Mich 1.00 John E. Casey, Jordan, Minn»» 5.00 William Dudley, West Lynn, Mass 1.00 A. D. Frezdl, Detroit. Mich 10.00 Rev. William Cleary, (in Memor>* of Mrs. Nelson W. Diebel, Detroit, Mich 1.00 
Edward Patrick Qcary, '09) Ea.st John T. Dicckmann, Fairview, N. J 1.00 L. J. Gemon, Detroit, Mich.— 75.00 
Molinc, III 100.00 Rev. J. F. Dwyer, St. Louis, Mo_ 1.00 Michael Garofano. West Lynn, Mass 1.00 Fred Collins, West L>-nn. Mass 1.00 Eohert C. Dunn, '27, St. Louis u 5.00 Paul M. George, '33, St. Louis, Mo 25.00 Dr. Bernard P. Crowley. '28, Richmond Daniel DeRocco. Monessen. Pa 1.00 John M. Glaska, '28, Indianapolis, Ind— 10.00 
Heights, Mo. ™.™™ 5.00 William R. DeVoe, New York City-10.00 (Continued on Page 12) 

The Ndffe Dame Alumnus 
The magazine Is published from October to June, Inclusive, by the University of Notre Dame^ Notre Dame. Indiana. Entered as second claia 
matter October 1, 1939. at the PostofSce. Notre Dome, Indiana, under the act of August 24. 1912. Member of the American Alnnmi Council 
and of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG. "25, Edilor; \VIUJA.M R. DOOLEY. "26, Managing Editor 
Vol. '.8 OaOBER, 1939 No. I 
Changes Herald Openins of 98th Year 
Capacity Enrollment; New Engineering Dean; New Fresh­man Residence Hall; Academic Impetus;—^All Indicate Great Achievements on Eve of University's Centennial 
Notre Dame's 98th year began on Tuesday, September 12, with the opening of registration. 

And as the time-clock approaches the 100th anniversary of the arrival •of the Rev. Edward Sorin on Novem­ber 26, 1842, there is increasingly evident the realization of those dreams which during the founder's lifetime seemed sometimes to be far beyond the realm of reason. 
Capacity enrolment, with many boys refused admission, and some ad­mitted on condition of temporary off-campus residence, marked the tribute of American parents to the educa­tional history of the University. More than 3,000 boys are enrolled in the five Colleges and the graduate school of the University—3,231 was the fig­ure on the closing day of registration. 
Typical of the University's care for the welfare of these boys and the administration's policy to house them in the environment of the University was the shining new Breen-Phillips residence hall for freshmen, which-looms on Notre Dame's Eastern cam­pus, adjacent to the Gymnasium, and to the former Freshman Hall which it is designed to replace. The enrolment compelled the University to make temporary use of the old hall, which, however, will be abandoned as soon as the new halls absorb the overflow. 
Indicative of the policy of acad­emic progress was the announcement of the appointment as dean of the College of- Engineering of Dugald C. Jackson, Jr. The post had been va­cant since the elevation to the pro­vincialship' of the Congregation of Holy Cross of the Eev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, '99. Acting dean last year was Professor Walter Shilts, '22, who continues as assistant dean and head of the department of civil engi­neering. Dr. Jackson comes to Notre Dame from his most recent post as president of Lewis Institute, Chicago. Previously, he had been head of the department of electrical engineering at the University of Kansas. Dr. Jackson is highly regarded in both professional and academic circles in the field of engineering. His father, an early associate of Thomas Edison, was also distinguished in the teach­ing of engineering, at Wisconsin Uni­veristy, and at M. I. T. 
Changes in Department Heads 
Eev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C, '11, dean of the College of Arts and Let­ters, also assumes this year the duties of head of the department of religion, succeeding Eev. George Marr, C.S.C, '01. 
Rev. Leo Gorman, C.S.C, '26, rector of St. Edward's Hall, also becomes head of the department of classics, succeeding Eev. Peter Hebert, C.S.C, '10. 
Prof, Earl Langwell becomes head of the department of modem lan-
DEAN DUGALD C. JACKSON, JR. 
guages, succeeding Eev. Bernard J. HI, CS.C. 
Eev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C, '25, University archivist, also becomes head of the department of history, succeeding Eev. William M. McNa­mara, C.S.C, '17. 
Prof. William J. Coyne, '27, LLJB., '29, succeeds Prof. Albert J. Doyle, LL.B., '27, as head of the department of speech. Prof. Doyle will continue to teach, dividing his time with his duties as juvenile referee in St. Jos­eph county. 
Eelieving Prof. J. A. Caparo, '08, who will continue to teach however. Prof. John A. Northcott becomes head of the department of electrical engineering. 
Succeeding Prof. William L. Benitz, '11, who was retired in June, is Prof. Carl C Wilcox, new head of the de­partment of mechanical engineering. Prof. Wilcox is a former consulting engineer, possessed of a broad indus­trial background, -with the Studebaker Corporation from 1922 to 1937. He is a graduate of Ohio -State, Class of 1903. 
Faculty AdditSons 
Assuming or returning to teaching positions at the University are the following members of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross: Eer. Charles Mc-Carragher, '32, in sociology; Rev. Walter O'Donnell, '06, Rev. Paul Beichner, '35, and Brother Jnstin, '32, in English (Brother Jnstin also be­comes rector of Carroll Hall, sneeeed­ing Brother Haurilins, who assumes charge of Washington Hall); Rev. George Welsh, '29, in history; Eev. Michael Hathis, 10, co-founder of the Medical Mission Society, in religion; Rev. Edward Sh ^ '31, and Rev. Rob­ert King, "SO, in philosophy; Rev. George Baldwin, '24, physics. 
Among the new lay professors, con­ceming whom the ALUMNUS hopes to print more data during the school year, are the following: 
Dr. Norbert L. Noedcer, foTmerlj­
of the University of Wisconsin, who will teach plant physiology in the College of Science; James A. McCar­thy, formerly of the United Fruit Company and M. I. T., who will teach civil engineering; Robert Egry, for­merly of the University of Detroit, who will teach mechanical engineer­ing; -Alexander Troiano, formerly of Harvard University, who will teach metallurgy; Frank Slontana, who will teach architecture; Francis Calkins, formerly associated \vith Standard Statistics Inc., who will teach finance. 
New Hall Rectors 
Eev. Francis Butler, C.S.C, '19, be­comes rector of Dillon Hall, succeed­ing Rev. John Ryan, C.S.C, '06. Rev. Robert Woodward, C.S.C, '28, be­comes rector of Morrissey, succeeding Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C, '18, who is the rector of Breen-Phillips. Rev. Joseph Muckenthaler, C.S.C, '23, becomes rector of Cavanaugh Hall, being succeeded in Badin by Rev. Bernard McAvoy, C.S.C, '29. Rev. John Burke, C.S.C, '32, is the new rector of Zahm Hall, and, as men­tioned above, Brother Justin, C.S.C, '32, is the new rector of Carroll. 
Rectors of the other halls, un­changed, are : Sorin, Rev. Frederick Gassensmith, C.S.C, '17; Walsh, Rev. James Gallagan, C.S.C, '06; Alumni, Rev. Henry Glueckert, C.S.C, '16; Howard, Rev. Peter Forrestal, C.S.C, '11; Lyons, Rev. Thomas Kelly, C.S.C, '24; St. Edward's, Rev. Leo Gorman, C.S.C, '2G; Brownson, Brother Pat­rick, C.S.C, '35; Freshman (tempor­ary) , Rev. John Dupuis, C.S.C, '31. 
First Things First 
A magnificent Solemn Mass opened the school year on September 17. Un­usual was the presence of Most Rev. Juan Subercaseaux, D.D., Bishop of Limares, Chile, who celebrated the Mass. The sermon was delivered by the Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, president of the University. 
Three missions have opened the year for students and faculty. The first was held the opening week of school, largely for freshmen. The second was held the second week of school, for the upper classmen. The third, also held the second week of school, was a mission inaugurated last year by Father Miltner for members of the lay faculty, and continued this year by the Rev. Richard CoUentine, C.S.C., '09. 
The football squad resumed prac­tice September 10 the Band is booming the Glee Club is singing 
the Rockne Memorial attracts hundreds of the boys the golf course is filled the bookstore is well cleared of its texts the Din­ing Halls have quieted the tablecloth and dinner - at - night furor.... the Scholastic is going to press Avith its first issue school's on! 

The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1939 
Legal Service For Hierarchy 
Bureau of Research in Civil Church Law Launched Under Prof. J. Kearney, '31 
Announcement has just been made of the formation in the College of Law of the University of Notre Dame of a Bureau of Research in Ci\'il Church Law which will cooperate with the Hierarchy of the United States in the clarification of prob­lems arising in the several States in connection with the Church as it is affected by the civil laws. 
The Bureau will be under the direc­tion of James J. Kearney, of the College of Law faculty, who received his A.B. from Notre Dame in 1931, his J. D. from the Loyola of Chica.-jo Law School in 1934, and his LL.M. from the Catholic University in 1935. 
The Bureau will serve the Church in the following specific ways: 
1.
 At the request of any Bishop or his attorney a memorandum \vill be supplied him which will inform him of the status of the law in his diocese on any legal question which may con­front him. 

2.
 A survey of the civil status of churches and educational institutions will be prepared State by State, until all jurisdictions in the United States have been surveyed. This research will be done on a vertical plane, geo­graphically, but on a horizontal plane as regards subject matter. 

3.
 Research monographs will be published on particular questions' of importance in the Church and educa­tional fields of the law, siich as the status of cemeteries, the powers of the corporation sole, etc. This re­search ^vill be on a vertical plans as 


.to subject matter, but geographically it will be horizontal. 
4.
 Annually a digest will be pub­lished of all cases dealing -ivith churches or educational institutions. The first digest will be published in March, 1940, and will contain cases found in the reports from January 1, 1939 to January 1, 1940. 

5.
 Of particular student and alumni interest is the announcement that Mr. Kearney vnll conduct a seminar in the College of Law on Civil Church Law, the object of which is to prepare Notre Dame graduates to act as counsel for their local pastors and bishops. 


Many interesting coimotations ac­company the announcement of the Research Bureau. 
First is the recollection that the College of Law of the University of Notre Dame is an outgrowth of the first law school in a Catholic college in this countrj'. Established in 1869, the College has been the source of many great Notre Dame la^vyers, and its dean for years, the late Col. Wil­
•liam Hoynes, was one of the most loved and respected members of the lay faculty. 
Similarly, on reading the announce­ment, there comes to the Notre Dame mind the presence on the campus of the Hall of the Bishops, one of the first and greatest tributes to the American Hierarchy in existence. Limitations of space and expansion of the collection have scattered the many magnificent pieces in the col­lection among several buildings on the campus, but in possession of the Uni­versity are vestments, equipment, documents, portraits, and other mem­orabilia of the American Hierarchy from the first Bishop to the present time. This famous collection, which was outstanding in Catholic America a half century ago, was founded, and for many years promoted, by the great lay professor of those early years. Prof. James Edwards. Origin­ally housed in the Main Building, much of it is now in the University Art Galleries and Archives in the University Library, and much is stored until further expansion of space pennits adequate display. 
The utility of the present Bureau of Research needs little comment, with the Catholic press constantly filled with stories of tax encroach­ment, discrimination of public facili­ties in the case of the parochial schools, etc. 
Many members of the Hierarchy have already expressed their approba­tion of the project and have extended special blessings to its progress. 
Any alumni who are acting as at­torneys in any litigation within the scope of the work of the Bureau, are invited to contact Professor Kearney for any assistance he may render, or to contribute their experience to the Bureau's research. 
Also, alumni having copies of trial or appellate briefs on Church or school problems are invited to aid the Bureau by augmenting the library in this field which is being built in con­junction with the. Bureau. 

October, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 


Alumni Office Develops Placement 
Report Covering 15 Months of Placement Accomplishment in Alumni Office is Pre­sented; Future Course is Indicated 
(The following is, verbatim, a re­port, dated August IS, 1939, to James 
E. Armstrong, alumni secretary and editor of the ALUMNUS, by William 
R. Dooley, director of the new Place­ment Bureau and managing editor of the ALUMNUS. Its printing here should be of major interest to ALUM­NUS readers since placement accom­plishments d7id placement plans are outlined briefly.—Eds.) 
You will be interested in the accom­plishments of the Placement Bureau in the 15 months of its existence. 
You will recall that the Bureau was, at the suggestion of the adminis­tration of the University, established in the Alumni Office in May, 1938. Behind it was the conviction that placement, effectively administered, should be one of the most potent forces in the further strengthening, spiritually and materially, of the Uni­versity, the -Mumni Association, the Notre Dame clubs, the individual stu­dent and the individual alumnus; that, while placement had been gen­erously handled from the founding of the University by individuals within the school, at sacrifice of time and effort, there should be added to already existing placement channels an office for the coordination and cen­tralization of such work; that the Alumni Office was, with its national connections, an ideal center. ' 
Started in May, 1938 

Starting the Placement Bureau in May, 1938, we were able to do some­thing, you will recall, in helping to place some of the 1938 graduates. It was agreed at the time, however, that our first major placement efforts would be with the 1939 Class. 
It is needless to say that neither the Adiministration of the University nor the Alumni Office had any thought of taking over in toto the highly effective placement work that had been done for so many years by various officers, deans, department heads and faculty men in the Uni­versity. Rather, it was, of course, the idea that the placement contacts of these men should be continued and, if possible, increased and that the Alumn i Office Placement Bureau would serve them as an office of co­ordination, records and detail. Fifteen months of placement effort have con­vinced me anew that a Placement Bu­reau cannot possibly exist to advan­tage without the advice and coopera­tion of every administrative officer and every teaching man in the school. 
Starting the Placement Bureau in May, 1938, we were able to do some­thing, you will recall, in helping to place some of the 1938 graduates. It was agreed at the time, however, that our first major placement efforts would be with the 1939 Class. 
Planning the Work 

I continued as Graduate Manager of Publications until September, 1938, but devoted much of the 1938 summer to a study of placement operations in other colleges and to a development of placement plans for Notre Dame. I was prepared to begin active place­ment work with the opening of the 1938-39 schoolyear. 
The Rockne Memorial Fund cam­paign intervened, however, and I was asked, in early September, to direct the activities of the Fund office in Room 316 of the Main Building. My new duties in this office, along with my permanent duties as Assistant Alumni Secretary and Managing Ed­itor of the ALUMNUS, left me with­out time during the first semester for anything but the barest essentials of placement effort. 
Coordinated placement at Notre Dame can be said, therefore, to have started with the opening of the sec­ond semester of 1938-39. It was then, of course, and still is a part-time ac­tivity for me, since more than half of my time is given to editing the ALUMNUS and general alumni work. 
Five hundred and seventy eight lay students received Notre Dame degrees in June and -August of 1939. Of this number, 182 made application to us (on our specially-prepared placement application forms) for placement as­sistance. The closest possible check, made just recently, indicates that of this 182, IIG (or 64 percent) are now employed or are planning to continue in graduate school or professional school. 
The Placement Bureau was directly responsible for placing 22 boys (or 12 percent) of the 182 who asked for placement help. These comprise 19 percent of the total of 116 placement 
applicants who are placed so far. It is impossible to estimate, closely, the nimdber of boys who are working be­cause of the indirect help of the Placement Bureau. I think I would be entirely within bounds, however, in saying that at least another 22 are working because of such indirect help. 
Considering the fact that we have gone through the first year of our placement work and that we made no real start with placement until the second semester, I think we can he much pleased with the results. Tan­gible results are satisfactory and in­tangible results are perhaps even more satisfactory. Everywhere among the 1939 boys there was gratitude for our efforts and, I am sure, a better feeling toward the University on ac­count of the placement program. 
Assuming that the 396 students who did not ask us for placement as­sistance had satisfactory placement plans of their own, we find that a total of 512 (or 89 percent) of the men who received 1939 degrees are now occupied, either in salaried work or with plans for further schooling. 
Thus, the 66 who are without em­ployment comprise only 11 percent of the 578 laymen who received degrees. 
(It may very well be my interpreta­tion of these figures would not stand the strict scrutiny of a professional statistician. It seems entirely safe to say, however, that no more than 20 percent of the 1939 lay graduates are now unemployed.) 
Concentrate on Seniors 

You and I have agreed that, in the nature of the Alumni Office, its lim­ited personnel and facilities, and in view of the national scope of the Notre Dame placement problem, we would have to concentrate, locally, on aiding the seniors while they are still on the campus. Many limitations, which we have discussed, militate against attempting any sizable pro­gram of graduate placement. 
A long-view planning, designed to bring to the campus each spring the personnel representatives of industry for the purpose of interviewing sen­iors about employment, seems to offer our largest single hope in campus placement effort. With this course of action we can, I believe, accomplish the most for the boys, with the mini­mum expenditure of time and effort here in the office. 
AVe made a substantial start in this direction with the 1939 class. My rec­ords show that 22 different organiza­tions sent personnel representatives to interview seniors last spring. I feel certain that at least 15 other or­ganizations sent men here whom I did not meet. 
 had considerable correspondence with 79 additional business organiza­tions, to many of which group I made recommendations regarding the em­ployment of our seniors. There were 59 other placement contacts with busi­ness groups by mail. Many of these pro\'ided no employment hopes for the current year, but some of them should be exceedingly fruitful in the years to come inasmuch as the companies con­cerned expressed a generous willing­ness to employ Notre Dame men in more profitable years. 
Thus, through the 15 months of the Placement Bureau, there have been a minimum of 160 contacts established with industries through the Bureau itself. There have been in addition, of course, innumerable contacts through various other agencies and individuals on the campus. 
AVe have agreed that graduate placement will have to be placed, al­most exclusively, in the hands of Notre Dame clubs in our largest cities. The clubs in New York, New Jersey, Cleveland and Chicago have responded encouragingly to our place­ment suggestions and already have placement committees actively at work. I have bent every effort to in­duce other large clubs to proceed accordingly and I vriU continue these efforts through the year. I have al­ready had excellent cooperation from such places as Buffalo, Rochester, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Louis­ville. 
Placement Complicated 
The work of placement is, as you know, endlessly complicated and re­quires continued correspondence and interviews vnth and telephone calls to industrial executives, administrative offices, deans, department heads, fac­ulty members, alumni and students. My "pioneering" in this field has been especially difficult. The placing of one man often requires days of effort. The reluctance of some students and alumni to reply to letters or to re­spond to placement suggestions is, to say the least, discouraging. 
There is light ahead, though; some of the hardest foundation work has been done and we should have sound results increasingly over the coming years. I know you will agree that we should build placement slowly, making our plans and contacts wisely. What we want, I am sure, is a steady de­velopment. Placement is a cumulative thing: it grows as contacts and con-
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

STUDENT NOTES 
(Eddie Huff, '40, Pittsburgh, Penn­sylvania, the writer of titis depart­ment this vionth, is the able and personable president of the Western Pennsylva7iia student club, a campus writer with three years of "Scholas­tic" experience and, generally, a lea'd­itig Notre Dame man in the best traditions of the term.—Eds.) 
V 
HELLO, VINCE: This is not a farewell bat a greet­ing and it goes out to Vince DeCour­sey, '39, ^vith whom we worked on the Scholastic for three years. 
Vince wrote this pleasant task last year after succeeding John Lechner, '37. At the last report from Bob Sullivan, senior from Montana and varsitj' football guard, Vince was making a start in the dairy business back in Kansas City, Kansas, after having served as managing editor for the Scholastic last year. Very hap­pily do we remember those frozen shamrocks that Vince's dad used to dispatch this way on St. Patrick's day. 
FRESHMAN HAS LONG ARM: This is the zenith of freshman nos­talgia. Tom Cooney, Jr., '43, from Yonkers, should be seeking an end berth on the freshman football squad rather than the center post at which Coaches Bossu and McGoldrick have stationed him. 
While resting as the only patient in the Infirmarj- over the first week­end, Tom, the son of one of Yonkers' public officials, collared passers-by who were on the way to St. Joe's Lake for an outdoor swim and urged them to drop up and visit with him until an additional patient arrived. Young Cooney remembers Earl Brown, captain of last season's bas­ketball Irish, as ". . . the man who genuflected every time he took a long shot from the floor at Madison Square Garden." 
V 
THE DOME: In this fall of 1939, Notre Dame men — after having become accus­tomed to dinner at noon — began to get dinner at six — with soup and potatoes. The noon meal is some-thin akin to luncheon and comprises meat, one vegetable, and a salad. 
fidence in, and knowledge of, its ser­vices grow. 
I should like to make particular acknowledgement of the manifold as­sistance to me of innumerable persons and officers throughout the Univer­sity. As various needs and problems 
October, 1939 
By EDDIE HUFF, '40 
This is the work of a new feminine dietitian 
Rumor and opinion have it that: some of the rovers of the campus think that they are being gypped. Those that think twice conclude that: the lighter noon meal eliminates an over diet of starchy foods, that after­noon study and classroom work can better be done, and that the quantity stands apace with the "old Notre Dame meals." Qualitatively, the grub is fine. 
Set-up men in the Dining Hall— those fellows who give the tables a dressed-up appearance after meals— are threatened to come to work in dress suits. It all started like this: Tommy Owen, head waiter an d charge d'affairs, rushed through a dictum sans plebiscite, that Notre Dame would dine from fresh linen cloths at every meal. Those highly-varnished and reflective table cloths no more will reveal the beaming faces of Notre Dame. 
THESE REGISTER: A Mr. Hogan, Canadian student, cancelled his registartion at Notre Dame because of the new war .. . a Mr. Chen of China did the same thing because of another war , . . but Joe Wang En Pao (pronounce "Un-Bow," and it means "bom on the feast of St Joseph"), graduate stu­dent, is back at Sorin Hall to major in English . . . John Francis Riordan, freshman pre-med is a great-grandson of John Riordan, at N.D. in '52 and '53, who was an uncle of N.D.'s present registrar . . . Billy Scully, who, as a boy soprano, was featured two years ago at Notre Dame's "Music Week" festival in Washington Hall, made another visit to the University re­cently; this time Bill is billed as a baritone member of Professor Dan Pedtke's Glee Club, and a member of the '43 class from New Rochelle, of New York. .. . a new under­ground sprinkling system for the putting greens on the University's William J. Burke 18-hole golf course is the American Way, as foreign na­tions build dugouts . . . more than a mile of new concrete sidewalks have been constructed, and the cam­pus feels like home to the East Siders of the Met Club. 
arose, all the administrative officers, deans, department heads and indi­vidual faculty men were most gra­cious and willing in helping me. I also had much kind cooperation from the South Bend office of the State Em­ployment Service. 

October, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
An Address Delivered at The University 
of Notre Dame on July 29, 1939* 


Europe From Afar 
A comprehension of European problems requires a knowledge of European history in modem times, which began with the great discov­ies and their consequences—colonies. 
Of the colonizing nations, England 

has been, and is, the greatest for reasons peculiar to its history. After ' the emergence from feudalism the Englis h kings attemped arbitrary government. King Charles was de­feated and beheaded in a revolt of merchants and yeomen, w^ho then ruled England for the years of the 
Long Parliament and Ci'omw^ell. 
When the aristocrats resumed the government at the restoration of Charles II. and again at the election of King William and Queen Marj', it was to rule as the commercial classes wished — a practical applica­tion of the principle enunciated in our Declaration of Independence: 
"Governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed." 
To the aristocrats went the sonor­ous titles, the gaudy raiment, the shining swords, the judicial pomp. The actual power resided in the men in the counting houses and merchant ships. 
Rising Living Standards 
The aristocrats and the jails fur­nished the blood for England's wars; the merchants furnished the treasure. The merchants obtained more wealth; the aristocrats more governorships, more generalships, more judgeships, more beautiful embassies. The work­

- men secured the highest standards of living in Europe. 
This political accord created the British empire whose complexity is only rivalled by its extent. In 1914 it included the settlements of Aus­tralia and New Zealand. Canada, Ireland, and South Africa, part set­tlement, part conquest; conquered peoples in India, Egypt, the Sudan, and a score of smaller places; stra­tegical concessions, as Tientsin and Hongkong, controlling the trade of large areas of territory in other countries; purely military bases, such as Gibraltar in Spain, the Falkland and the American islands. Portugal 
* /( 15 to be recalled in the reading of this address that Colonel McCormicl( spoJ^e to the Summer School students at a time when the new War mas still in the future. 
BY ROBERT R. MCCORMICK, 
E<]itor and Publisher of ihe Chicago Tribune 
and its colonial empire were added as dependencies. 
British commerce w-as borne by the biggest merchant fleet in the world; it was financed by the largest bank­ing system and insured by Lloyd's, the world's greatest insurance ex­change. It was connected by cables belonging to subjects of the empire —cables which were twice as numer­ous and twice as long as those owned by all other countries, and over which passed news of the world, col­lected by a British news agency and furnished to the newspapers of all countries in the form best suited to advance the imperial interest. 
'Britannia Rules the Waves' 
This gigantic empire fostered Brit­ish industry and gave its subjects natural advantages in dealing vnth all the countries of the earth. It gave aristocratic employment to thousands of military and administrati%-e officers —all interested in its maintenance and expansion. 
In consequence of its business re­lations with all the countries of the world, the empire developed with them all diplomatic relations, carried on by men trained in that service and devoted to the success of the empire. 
This empire was protected, po­liced, and coerced by a navy which ruled the waves, and by armies which, except in the case of the American revolution, have been ade­quate to meet all demands. 
France emerged from the feudal system at about the same time as England. It, as England, had reli­gious, political, and commercial civil wars, but in them the merchant class never triumphed. 
The crown became absolute, lead­ing large aristocratic, military, and administrative hierarchies—all riding heavily upon the commercial and working classes. 
When Frenchmen scoured the ocean and settled foreign lands, it was to increase the glory of their king. French armies -marched across Europe for the same purpose. 
Commerce and industry, regi­mented under government control, withered; the armies and navies could not be maintained; America and India were lost to the British. 
The monarchy fell from bureau­cratic regimentation, to be followed in a few years by the Napoleonic empire. Again the navy sailed and armies marched, for the glory of the monarch, to Egypt; to Lisbon; to Naples; to Moscow. Trade and indus­try were neglected. France once more collapsed in exhaustion. 
-Ajiother generation and another Napoleon arose. French navies sailed to Russia; to Mexico. French armies marched to victory at Solferino and disaster at Sedan. 
Prussians, Bavarians, an d Wiirt­tembergers marched through Paris, formed the German empire at Ver­sailles, and remained on French soil for three years while collecting a heavy ransom for withdrawal. With the i-ansom went the provinces of Alsace and Lorraine. 
France was crushed. Gone were imperial dreams. A republic of little merchants was set up, somewhat ra­paciously administered by a central bureaucracy, inherited from Riche­lieu and the Napoleons. 

The republic also inherited -\lgeria, which had been occupied under Louis Philippe, and Madagascar, which it claimed by right of discovery. Fur­thermore, it inherited the army with all of its traditions of greatness and adventure. 
French Militarism Rises 
From reasons of tradition and pa­triotism, from fear of further Ger­man invasion, the army became the career most desired by Frenchmen. Officers were chosen by competitive examinations, and the ablest students in the technical colleges obtained commissions, excepting in the cavalry which remained the only career open to the old nobility. 
After France adopted the system of universal military training, every Frenchman passed through the army and learned to admire and look up to its splendid officers. The army thus obtained an influence entirely outside its legal status. 

Partly from offense received, part­ly from an instinct to exercise its functions, partly to forget the dis­graces of Metz and Sedan, the French army pushed its conquests from ar­able Algeria into arid Tunis, moun­tainous Morocco, and tropical Congo. It completed the subjugation of Mad­agascar. Cause being found, it in­vaded and conquered Indo-China. 
(Continued on Page 17) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus October. 1939 

UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS « « 
SUMMER SCHOOL 
From June 20 until August 3, 1939, the 22nd annual summer session of the University, interspersed with the other activities which involved the University and its personnel, occupied the Notre Dame spotlight. 
The third largest enrolment in the history of the summer school (1929 and 1930 were larger) enjoyed one of the finest summers from a weather standpoint, and one of the most con­structive from a program standpoint. 
Ninety-five graduates brought the session to a reluctant but happy close on the night of August 2, with the presentation of diplomas in Washing­ton Hall and a splendid commence­ment address, to a hall overflowing, by Richard Reid, Laetare Medalist, distinguished southern journalist. 
For the first time in the history of the University, the Sisters Choral Group, composed of summer session students, sang a Gregorian Mass in Sacred Heart Church. 
Slightly more than half the enrol­ment, 545 students, were enrolled in the graduate school. Forty-nine ad­vanced degrees were conferred, show­ing the development of the graduate school, particularly in its summer ses­sion application. 
The address by Col. Robert McCor­mick of the Chicago Tribune the Sisters Picnic use of the Rockne Memorial (by the Sisters on certain days) a fine program of Saturday night movies several outstanding musical attractions Mr. Reid and Mr. Speaight, the English actor-play­wright-producer, in lecture series plus the usual good food and the wel­come good weather.... with always a hard-working group who tax the schoolyear professors a bit more than the less intense undergraduates and you have the 1939 summer school an increasingly important and integral part of Notre Dame, even before it observes its silver jubilee. 
ARCHITECTS MEET AT N.D. A mid-Western conference of arch­itects was held at the University of Notre Dame on June 23 and 24, with the Notre Dame department, under the direction of Professors Vincent Fagan and Francis W. Kervick, as hosts. Outstanding feature of the confer­ence was the address by Charles D. Maginnis, president of the American 
Institute of Architects, Laetare Med­alist in 1924, and head of the firm of Maginnis and Walsh, who are re­sponsible for many of the newer buildings at Notre Dame. Theme of Mr. Maginnis' address was the need for investigation of building costs which, he charged, are being arbi­trarily maintained at a high figure by the building indnstiy. 
DONAHUE SCHOLARSHIP Roger Coleman Behm, St. Ignatius High School, Chicago, was the 1939 recipient of the William E. Donahue scholarship, established in 1935 by the ^^•idow of the late William E. Donahue, of the Chicago Tribune. The scholarship provides for a four-j'ear course in the College of Com­merce. Sixteen young men entered the competition for the scholai-ship. 
WAR CANCELS FELLOWSHIP Dr. John J. FitzGerald, instructor in philosophy at Notre Dame since 1937 has been forced by the new world war to abandon a fellowship awarded to him by the Belgian and American Foundation, of which Her­bert Hoover is chairman, for a year's study at Louvain. Dr. FitzGoi-ald studied at Louvain from 1933 until 1937, recei^^ng his Ph.D. there at that time. He was one of five Ameri­can college faculty members honored by the fellowships. He is teaching at Notre Dame again this year. 
REYNIERS RESEARCH ATTRACTS The work which Professor James Arthur Re>Tiiers, '30, M.S. '31. has done in bacteriological research in the laboratories of the University, is atti-acting increasing attention. Pro­fessor RejTiiers has lectured at Wis­consin, Harvard, Princeton, Ohio State universities, and before several scientific societies. 
A practical application of his re­search which resulted in the produc­tion of germ-free guinea pigs, is the construction, under Professor Rey­niers' super\'ision, of air-conditioned cubicles for babies in the famous Cradle home for babies in Evanston, Illinois. By taking germ-carrying air currents away from the infant occu­pant of the cubicle. Professor Rey­niers has practically eliminated the diseases and consequent epidemics, in the type of nursery which houses several infants, arising from bacteria earned by air. 
MURALS DEPICT TRADITIONS 
In the basement of Cavanaugh Hall, the student recreation room, murals painted by the students of the Art Department depict student traditions, particularly thos e of Rockne, the.Four Horsemen, and sev­eral humorous incidents, including the marble championship. 
Similarly, in the recreation room of Zahm Hall, art students under Professor Fi-ancis Hanley have com­pleted murals consisting of scenes from the South American jungles where Father Zahm and Theodore Roosevelt explored together, an d scenes portraying the extraction and preparation of natui-al rubber, remi­niscent of Dr. Zahm's explorations, and the work of Father Julius Nieuw­land in the field of sjTithetic rubber. 
DR. JUST WINS AWARD The Lay Faculty Foundation of the Alumni Association prize of ?500 for the outstanding professorial record of the year was awarded in June to Theodor Karl Just, Ph.D., associate professor of biology. Dr. Just has been a member of the faculty since 1929. He is one of the most brilliant young scholars to have been gradu­ated from the University of Vienna. He is editor of the American Midland Naturalist, succeeding the late Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., '99, in that important post. 
The award was established in 1927-28 through a fund raised largely through the efforts of Byron V. Kan­aley, '04. Recipients have been Pro­fessors Henry B. Froning, Edward J. Maurus, James E. McCarthy, Charles Phillips, Joseph Casasanta, Paul R. Byrne, John M. Cooney, James .A.. Reyniers, Richard R. Vogt, Fred I. Myers, and Daniel C. O'Grady. 
PROFESSOR DU BOS DIES Professor Charles DuBos, French critic and author, who taught for tivo years at Notre Dame and St. Mary's, died on August 6, in Paris. Professor DuBos, seriously ill in South Bend last Spring, had recovered and re­turned to France. He was one of the most eminent critics of English liter­ature in Europe, and was an author­ity on the works of Byron and Dick­ens. He had translated the complete works of Edith Wharton into French. 

October, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
the expression of the actual freedom 
of the Catholic to satisfy any legiti­
mate intellectual curiosity. In so do­
NOTRE DAME BOOKS . . . 
ing, he has pointed out many of the 
News Is Where You Find It—^Fied­eric William Wile, '91 (Bohbs-MeiTill, $3.75) 
No Notre Dame man will fail to enjoy the autobiogi-aphy of Fredeiic William Wile, '88-'91, just off the press. A review will appear in the next issue of the ALUMNUS, but the editorial privilege of glancing at a few pages is more than enough to justify the seeming sweep of the opening statement. In the first place, the name of the Wile family of La-Porte, Indiana, is entwined with the name of Sorin in the early history of 
. Notre Dame. Of his days at Notre Dame, Frederic Wile speaks with the crisp quality of his newspaper years mellowed with the sentiment and the humor and the fraternity of campus life. The men he knew at Notre Dame, and his contacts with his alma mater since, have brought to his auto­biography a touch that is Notre Dame's own. 
In addition to all this, however, the book would be readable on its own merits if Wile wei'e a total stranger. For 41 years Fi-ed Wile has been a figure in international journalism. The cub-to-commentator saga is filled with the names and the events of those years going by you in a kaleido­scope of magnificent expression tem­pered to literary fineness by news­paper, i-adio and periodical training, and the demands of earlier books, among them, "Men Around the Kai­ser," "The Assault," "Explaining the Britisher," "Emile Berliner, Maker of the Microphone," and "A Centuiy of Industrial Progress." 
Notre Dame, Indiana's Great Lit­erary Tradition, The Profession of Journalism, Histoiy, (the latter en­riched by Mr. Wile's years in Ger­many and England preceding the World War of 1914), and perhaps above all, the chronicle of an inter­esting life by one who retained the rai-e and invaluable virtue of enjoy­ing it himself—^from any of these ap­proaches you will enjov "News Is Where You Find It." 
Lessons in Liberty — Clarence E. Manion, J.D. '22, (University of Notre Dame Press, 51.50) 
A text-book in American history has introduced the academic world to the writing of Clarence E. Manion, 
J.D. '22, professor of law at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. But in his new book, also designed to serve as a text in the teaching of political sci­
FREDERIC WILLIAM WILE, '91 

ence, Prof. Manion has made a much greater contribution to education. 
This is not so much from a purely academic viewpoint. But in the sub­title of his book, "a study of God in Government," and from his foreword in which he says that hundreds of texts teach the "how" of government, but none he has seen properly em­phasizes the "why." Alumni who have heax-d the always popular "Pat" utilize his oratorical talent in describ­ing the wellsprings of American gov­ernment know what a happy channel the new book takes. The work, which ti'aces government as the instrument by which man achieves his supernat­ural destiny, and not as his master, is a contribution to the Church and to the preservation of American ideals. Coming in a period when to­talitarianism has provided America and the world with a crisis in which the verj- word "democracy" is grossly abused, the book has a significance far beyond the modest use to which its form adapts it. It would make a refreshing outline for any alumnus charged with parental or academic interpretation of government for young America. 
How Firm a Foundation — Willis Dwight Nutting, member of the Noti'e Dame faculty of history since 1936 (Sheed & Ward, ?1.7o) 
Professor Nutting, former Rhodes Scholar, has written a book based on sources of prejudice against the Church, derived from a non-Catholic background, and the work will find a welcome among those who have sometimes felt that it is difiicult to answer the charge that the Church discourages intellectual initiative, even in problems which constantly challenge Catholic thought. 
Two other reviews of books of 

N.D. interest will appear next month. One will be a review of "God in an Irish Kitchen," by Leo E. Ward, C.S.C, '23, published by Sheed & Ward. The other, of particular sig­nificance to Notre Dame lawyers, will be reviews of two books on Canon Law and Marriage Problems, written by Rev. William Doheny, C.S.C. Father Doheny is an internationally known authority on Canon Law, and the application of the Law^ to Amer­ican marriage problems is a source of much interest and concern to Catholic lawyers particularly. Bruce is the publisher. 
The ALUMNUS, to promote the cultural interests of alumni, and to provide a few suggestions of a serious but informal nature, plans to publish each month a few suggestions from various professors. The object is to secure suggestions for reading which would not come to the rank and file layman in the ordinary pursuit of his profession. Some will be professional. Some will be only semi-professional. Some will be primarily Catholic, and some will be purely cultural. But the JtLUMNUS hopes to make this department, in the course of the year, valuable to all of its readers. 
For example, in an age of empha­sis on race. Rev. Francis J. Wennin­ger, C.S.C, '11, dean of the College of Science, suggests that the Papal injunction to Catholics to inform themselves against the flood of false doctrines of racial supremacy is served well by reading "Race Against Man," a book by Herbert Jacob Se­ligmann, just published by Putnam's. 
Similarly, in broad and timely vein. Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C, '11, dean of the College of Arts and Let­ters, suggests Desmond Fitzgerald's "Preface to Statecraft," a Sheed and Ward book; "The Pope's Plan," a book interpreting the Papal pro­nouncements on social reconstruc­tion, written by Bruehl, published by Macmillan, a Catholic-Book-of-the-Month selection; and James' "Preface to Living," published also by Sheed and Ward. Father Miltner suggests the periodicals of merit, "The Thom­ist," a new Sheed and Ward publica­tion, edited by the Eastern Province Dominicans; Notre Dame's own "Re­
The Notre Dame Alumnus October. 1939 
view of Politics," and a Washington, D.C., publication, "The New Scholas­ticism." 
Walter Shilts, '22, assistant dean of the College of Engineering, sug­gests in that field a McGraw-Hill hook by Timashenko, "Theory of Elastic Stability;" "Fluid Mechanics for Hydraulic Engineers," by Hunter Rouse, recommended by the Engi­neering Societies monograph commit­tee; and "Engineering Terminology," by Brown and Runner, a Gilette book. 
Dean James E. McCarthy, of the College of Commerce, suggests a symposium from the Twentieth Cen­tury Fund publishers, "Does Distri­bution Cost Too Much?" 
And in the field of advertising. Rev Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C, '11, recommends a revised edition of "Ad­vertising Theory and Practice" pub­lished by Business Publications, Inc., Chicago; Mark O'Dea's "Preface to Advertising," a McGraw book, con­taining practical conclusions of an expert in all phases of the field; Goode and Kaufman's "Showmanship in Business," a Harper book. 

FOOTBALL WEEK-ENDS 
All Notre Dame men and their friends are invited 
in South Bend: to a smoker in the 
Oliver Hotel on the Friday eve­ning before each of the home games, arranged by the St. Joe Valley Notre Dame Club. Speakers (coaches, newspaper men, radio announcers, celebrities in general) music, enter­tainment, lunch, etc. 
in Cleveland: to (1) a Navy-Notre 
Dame dinner ($2 a plate) in the Statler Hotel, on Saturday, October 21, at 7 P.M., an-anged by the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland and the Cleveland Chamber of Commerce; 
(2) a Navy-Notre Dame Victory Dance (§3 a couple) in the Statler ballroom on Saturday, October 21, at 10 P.M. sponsored by the Cleve­land Club. Reser\'ation (accompa­nied by check) essential for each function. Statler Hotel will be N.D. headquarters for week-end. 
in Pittsburgh: to a Camegie-Tech-
Notre Dame smoker and buffet supper in the William Penn Hotel on Friday evening, October 27, arranged by the Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania. 
in New York City: to an Army-Notre 
Dame Rally and Reunion in Man­hattan Center (34th Street, next to Hotel New Yorker) on Friday eve­ning, November 3, arranged by the 
N.D. Club of New York City. A rep­etition of last year's magnificent event. Women invited and welcome. Frank Wallace, '23, master of cere­monies. Capacity, 3,000. 

A Design for Leoving 
Bv ROBERT B . HEYWOOD. '39 
(The ALUMNUS reprints hercioitk the Class Poem, read at Class Daj/ in June. This ycar^
the poet, Robert Heywood, Ncic Richmond, Wisconsin, has produced a work of peculiar interest 
to alumni. In the early part of his poem, he has caught a vivid cross-section of campits Ufa. 
But in the latter part of his poem he has contributed one of the finest opinions on t7i« place of 
the young graduate in the world that has come to our attention in any form, partieuJarly signi­
ficant as we consider the possibilities of a youth-shattering icar.) 
Prom this Kood place we turn: 

From present joys and pleasant scape, 
From mauved-copper sunsets and lazy lake-w-alks. 
From magnolia blossoms. And uticndlner talks 
On the purpose of life and what it's all for; 
Or whether the South really won the war; 
On whether it Is wiser to spend our time 
Learning to live or practicing for living. 
From all these unconsidered considerations. 
And from baseball games in Badin bog. 
Dismantled street-cars, student trips 
And feverish football week-ends. 
-From the surety, the security 
Of our undergraduate ways, we tum. And as we turn: 
Unpleasant things come up: guarded dislikes. 
Remembered grle\-ances, and academic oddities— 
Our attempted evasion of disciplinary' persuasion. 
Brazen bells and blinked lights. 
Twelve o'clock pers. 
Infirmary cures, 
Washington tours. 

The impresario's booming organ. 
And Linnets swer\-ed with song. 
History outlines and hand-colored maps. 
And Innumerable tomes from the Roman agents. 
Candles after lights 
On preexamlnation nights. 

The long, long listening to the usual lectures. 
Statistical fervor and textbook orthodox>-. 
And the careful counting of cuts. 
Experiments in outboard motors. 
Bug-collecting In early spring. 
And trembling English majors 
Reciting class-day poems. And these things turn with us: 

Turn pleasant through time with time. 
And become nothing more than proper stories 
For proper gatherings of prosperous alumnL And so we go. they say. Into 'the world:* 
Into the world of all-night lights 
And endless week-end pers. 

From classes in classics to class reunions. 
From academic processions to practical digressions. 
Or from practicing to practice, we go 
Into a wheel-bound. Word-lost world. 
Wheel-bound world— 

Which has measured the Infinite 
And left man alone in the world of men; 
Alone In a boundless universe 
Winding and working toward the void. 
Word-lost world— 

Leaving man alone with only his faith 
In the morning newspaper 

And the latest device for the counting of time-cards. 
Bound by the boundless, free for destruction; 
An individual, alone, with his sacred enterprise. 
Set free fop himself and the mechanical practice 
Of business for business. 
Pleasure for pleasure. 
And life for life. 

Free, for conventional thinking 
And action based on a holy trust 
In the counting of heads. 

Free, for enslavement to race 
Or the deified nation. 

Free : To turn the Word to s^vord. 
To count time, be bound by time. 
To measure and weigh and smash the atom. 
To watch the stocks and the weather reports. 
Free - For ordered confusion. 
For sorrow without joy. 
For war, or the paper-peace of the business arrangement. 
Free : For words but lost to the Word, 
For time without the timeless. 
And order without wisdom. And we bring into this world: 
The fresh, old hope and the ageless solution; 
Truth as the soul of freedom. 
Rich, deep wisdom as the source of order 
And eternity as the measure for time. 
We come. Christ-bearers: 
To lighten the shadows, 
To strengthen the suffering. 

To free men from the world. 
And they will try to darken and smother 
The Light that we bear; 
But our Light can penetrate 

The deepest-down darkness and 
Reach past the measure of matter. 
We come with hope not ours, 
•Not wishing for easy release, easy peace; 
Strength not ours 
Can brave the wheel. 
Break the wheel, 

Free the 'free.* . 
We come to the world 
Bearing the Ligbt of the Word. 

October, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 




SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI » « 
Two great American patriotic or­ganizations, the American Legion and the Disabled Veterans of the World War, have turned to the sound prin­ciples of Catholic education and the patriotic record of American Catho­lics for their 1939-40 leaders, to guide 
RAYMOND J. KELLY, '15 

their destinies and to lead their par­ticipation in the determining of American policies during one of the most critical periods in American history. 
At its 1939 Chicago Convention just closed, the American Legion chose as its national commander, Ray 
J. Kelly, '15, corporation counsel of the city of Detroit. 
The Disabled Veterans at their 1939 conclave selected as their na­tional commander, Lewis J. Murphy, '23, South Bend. 
Ray has come to the top in the Legion by virtue of a distinguished career as a Legionnaire, supplement­ed by a brilliant record as an attor­ney. He has been through the vari­ous posts of commander of the local and state branches of the Legion in Michigan, and was for many years active on the Legion's national legis­lative committee acting as chairman of that important committee in 1933­
34. He has appeared in this connec­tion in Washington many times. 
A graduate in law of the Univer­sity of Detroit, Ray has been an at­torney in Detroit, except for his war service from 1917 to 1919, since 1915. He was general counsel of the Detroit Street Railways from 1930 to 1933, before becoming cor­poration counsel. He and his wife have six children, the oldest of whom, Ray, Jr., is a junior at Notre Dame this year. 
Lew was one of the World War veterans who returned to complete his education after the War. He re­ceived his A.B. in 1923 and his J.D. in 1926. Bom in Montgomery Coun­ty, Indiana, he was graduated from the Linden, Indiana, high school in 191G and soon afterwards enlisted in the United States Marine Corps, six months before this country en­tered the World War. He rose rap­idly through the non-commissioned grades in the Marines and was com­missioned a second lieutenant on the field of battle in France, where he pai-ticipated in many of the war's 
LEWIS J. MURPHY, '23 
fiercest battles. He was twice severe­ly gassed and once shot in the fore­arm. 
Entering Notre Dame in 1919 Lew was a leader in Veterans' affairs on the campus and one of the most ac­tive figures in the erection of the War Memorial at the east entrance to Sacred Heart Chui'ch. He organ­ized the South Bend chapter of the 
D.A.V. and has continuously since then been prominent in D.A.V. af­fairs, both state and national In 1938 he was elected senior vice-commander of the D.A.V. In his legal work in South Bend he has given special attention to medico­legal cases. 

Lew and his wife have two chil­dren. 
WILLIAM F. MONTAVON, '98, Washington, D C, director of the legal department of the National Catholic Welfare Conference and one of the University's most distinguished alumni, was honored again with the recent announcement that he was to receive on October 4, the Medal for Catholic Action awarded annually by St. Bonaventue College, Allegany, New York. 
The ALUMNUS has been happy to record on past occasions the accom­plishments of Mr. Montavon and the honors bestowed upon him. He spent 20 years as an educator in the Philip­pine Islands and in a diplomatic ca­pacity in Central America and South America. He was appointed director of the N.C.W.C. legal department in 1925, and has devoted much of his time to Catholic activities as related to Mexico, especially, and to Spain. 
In recognition of his outstanding services to the Church, the late Pope Pius XI in 1929 made Mr. Montavon a Knight of St. Gregory. 
Photogmph from Blank and StoHer 
WILLIAM F . MONTAVON, '98 

12 The Notre Dame Alumnus October. 1939 
GIFTS FOR THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL (Continued) 
B. G. Gillespie. 'ST. Brooklj-n. N. Y— 5.00 Thomas S. D. Miller, Wilmington, Del— 1.00 Edw. C. Roncy, Detroit, Mich-10.00 Mr. & Mrs. John Ganey. Hoosick Falls, Edmund J. Meagher, '21, Bock Island, III. 10.00 Dr. Geo. J. Reberdy, Detroit, Mieh-1.00 
New York 1.00 Harry J. Mehre. '22. University, Miss.— 25.00 Dr. Eugene Smith. Detroit, Mich— 1.00 Frank Giana. Kensington. Conn.™. 2.00 W. A. Middendorf, Cincinnati, O. 10.00 Ed. Strauss, Detroit, Mich-1.00 Waltcr H. Gear}-. Bron.x. N. Y^. 1.00 T. Murphy, '24, Wethersfield, Conn 25.00 Clarence S. Sweeney, Indianapolis, Ind-10.00 Dr. U. V. Gorrilla. '21. Claj-ton. Mo_ 3.00 J. P. Murphy, Detroit, Mich 1.00 J. W. Sweeney, Jr„ Jersey City, N. J-6.00 roKsy Gorrilla, Qayton. Mo„ 1.00 A. R. Motschall. Detroit, Mich 1.00 Al. Sutphin. Qeveland, O. 60.00 Nancy Gorrilla, Clayton. Mo 1.00 Henry C. Morris, Detroit, Mich-5.00 Maurice Stafford. New York City—— 6.00 
James P. Gar\'ey. Holyoke. Mass... 3.00 Edw. W. Merkiel, Detroit, Mich-1.00 Theodore Shea. West Lynn, Mass 1.00 
Fred R. Gibney. Newark. N. J„ 2.00 Louis Morse, Jr., Detroit. Mich.. 5.00 Redmond Shinnick, West Lynn, Mass— 1.00 John T. Griffin, '26, ChicaKO, 111.-5.00 William McCarthy, '38, Detroit, Mich 5.00 Eugene V. Sweeney, BrookI>Ti, N. Y— 1.00 Williara T. Griffin. Lynn. Mass.™ 6.00 H. P. McLaughlin, '30, St. Louis, Mo._ 5.00 Dr. & Mrs. D. L. Se-Nton, '23, St, Louis. 25.00 Dr. J. L. Glies. Detroit. Mieh 1.00 Dr. J. N. McGrath. '18, St. Louis, Mo-5.00 R. J. Sullivan, '31, Mattoon, III 6.00 Victor C. Gersch, Detroit, Mich 1.00 Joseph A. McCarthy, '04, St, Louis, Mo™ 5.00 J. H, Shay, Chicago, III 1.00 Thomas F. McDonald, Chester, N, Y 10.00 Audlin Shidler, Chicago, III.-1.00 
Georse E. Harbert. '18. Park RiilKe. Ill.._ .1.00 

John J. McGovern, *39, Pittsburgh, Pa 5.00 St. Mary Alumnae, Monroe, Mich-1.00 
Harlcy L. McDevitt. '29. P.assaic, N. J— 10.00 Maurice E. Stafford, New York City-2.00 
H. C. Hwer, Milford, Ind— 5.00 

Michael McGuire, '39, Shortville, N. Y 1.00 Dr. Philip Scherer. St. Louis. Mo._ 6.00 William Hines. West Lynn.Mass..™.— 1.00 
H. E. Hinsenkamp. '30, Plainfield, N. J... 5.00 

C. B. McDermott, '27. New York City. 100.00 Mrs. Flora Smith. South Bend. Ind 6.00 David Hccht. New York City 1.00 
Joseph F. McAndrew. St. Louis. Mo 1.00 Robert E. Shields. '27. Maplewood. N. J. 5.00 Paul Heinrich. South Bend. Ind— 
M. F. McManus. Detroit. Mich 5.00 R. A. Schuman, Chicago, III. 1.00 Dr. James J. Hughes. '31. Columbus. 0.. 
K. K. McGarvey. Detroit. Mich——— 5.00 Roht. P. Scherer, Detroit, Mich 6.00 
1.00 

E. W. Mcintosh. Detroit. Mich 10.00 H. F. Schumacher. Hartville. O Charles N. Heckelraann, '34, "Woodhaven, 
Robert T. Hellrung. '30, St. Louis, Mo._ 10 Walker Smith. New York City 1.00 

1.00 

H. S. Scigel. Milford. Mich Arthur J. Hughes. '11, Chicago, in.____200. D. J. Napolitano. '32. Notre Dame. Ind. 25.00 
New York __ „.,—, , William F. Neary. '21. New York City- 5.00 
George J. Stritch, Detroit, Mich 10.00 Louis F. Hanej-. '29, Lyons, N. Y— Mr. & Mrs. S. J. Neild. Central Falls, 
R. S, Seese, Detroit, Mich 1.00 John C. Hoolcy, '31. Rochellc, III-Rhode, Island 100.00 
Dr. L. Sariepy, Detroit, Mich-3.00 Peter A. Hurley, New York City_-_ William Nolan. South Orange, N. J 1.00 
Robert M. Trotter., '29, Chicago, III 25.00 
N. Toussaint, '35, Notre Dame, Ind.. 2.00 Rev. Roy F. Hagerty. Rochester. N. Y.- 3. Mrs. Mary V. Nolan. So. Orange. N. J_ 1.00 
J. H. Hogan, '34, Binghampton, N. Y, Neil Nolan. South Orange. N. J 1.00 
Gale Tilman. Chicago, 111. 20.00 James Hooss. St. Louis. Mo. 1, C. A. Nolan. South Orange. N. J 1.00 
R. A. TennanU Huntington, Calif-10.00 
George J. Hazard. Trenton. N. J 1, J. E. Nelson. '30. Perth Amboy. N. J.„ 5.00 James A. Hill. *35. Jefferson City. Mo. 
John E. Verbiest. Grosse Pointe. Mich— 1.00 Leonard P. Hogan. Hudson Falls. N. Y„ 10. 
Dr. G. S. 01m.sled. Detroit, Mich-1.00 

Charles A. Wisner. Jersey City, N. J 25.00 
W. A. Halligan. New York Cib'-1 
Rev. J. O'Toole. St. Louis, Mo._ 1.00 

William Wallace, W^est Lynn, Mass 1.00 
Forest A. Heath, Detroit, Mich-1. 
Joseph P. O'Hara. '20, Glencoe, Minn 100,00 

Thomas J. Walker, Butte, Mont 10.00 
D. F. Hulgrave. Detroit. Mich.— 5. 
Harr>- C. O'Neil. Detroit. Mich... 5.00 

Fred Weinberg, South Bend, Ind— —R. W. Heinlen, Detroit, Mich— 1, 
E. J. O'Toole. '20. St. Joseph, Mich-5.00 

Michael Walsh, South Bend, Ind P. W. Hillebrand. Detroit. Mich-1, 
Harold A. Obrey. Springfield. Mass. 5.00 

Robert Walsh, South Bend, Ind. 
H. A. Herman. Detroit, Mich, 1, 
Lawrence B. O'Brien. Worcester, Mas.s-5.00 

Gertrude M. Walsh. Bronx, N. Y— — 5,00 
Mrs, H, E. O'lx^ary. Grosse Pt. Mich-5.00 

Clifford H. Welsh. '35. Whippany, N. J-3.00 
William J. Johnson. '29. Detroit, Mich 6.00 John O'Keefe. Detroit. Mich 50.00 
Alfred J. Weil. '35. Yonkers. N. Y 2.00 
Helen Jakubik, Newark, N. J 1.00 V. A. Olscn, Detroit. Mich. 6.00 
C. E. Welsh. '38. Mahanoy City. Pa 10.00 
Dr. W^illiara O'Donnoll. Detroit, Mich-5.00 

Timothy Welsh, Mahanoy City, Pa -5.00 
Br>-an G. Joyce, Detroit, Mich-5.00 Thomas R. Pcttit, Newark, N. J 2.00 
William Wollman, New York City 2.00 
Kenneth S. Kennedy, '34, Omaha-3.00 John Porowski. Bayonne. N. J. 2.00 
William A. White, Washington— 1.00 
Edward Kahn, Chicago, Ill-6.00 Sid. J. Phillips. Butte, Mont-10.00 
Charles W. Whyte, Elm Grove, W. Va_ 5.00 
Stewart C. Kelly, Detroit, Mich 5.00 G. G. Peterson. Detroit. Mich.-1.00! 
W. B. Wardle, Detroit, Mich 
M. J. Kcough. New Britain, (>)nn.-1.00 Guy E. Parker, Detroit, Mich 5.00 S.OO 
F, J. W.-Uker, Detroit, Mich 5.00 
Bernard J. KefTIer. '37, Canton, 0_ 1.00 A. V. Platten. Detroit. Mich 1.00 
Dale Williams, Flint, Mich — 2.00 
Martin D. Keely, Goshen. Ind™ ™ 5.00 F. A. Posselius. Detroit. Mich 1.00 
Al. W. Widraan. Detroit. Mich 5.00 
Edward Keen, Pittston. Pa-1.00 Lambert Payne. Detroit, Mich 5.00 
W. G. Kileen. Detroit. Mich-6.00 

H. W. Zalman, Detroit, Mich 1.00 
M. J. Kearins, Detroit, Mich 25.00 

Rev. P. Quinlan. Wethersfield, Conn 25.00 B. J. Zimmerman, '34, Chicago, III 5.00 
Sherman F. Kelly, Detroit, Mich-1.00 
N. E. Kcanc, Detroit, Mich-1.0( 

John J. Ross. '32. Brooklyn, N. V 6.00 -$ 2,318.50 
James M. Kennart, Detroit. Mich._ 1.00 

Bernard F. Reilly. '.37. New York City- 2.00 Previous Total-255.566.46 
Henry J. Lahey. New York City-5.00 
William E. Reilly, Jersey City, N. J 5,00 
Frank W. Ladk-5-, Milwaukee, Wis-5.00 

William A. Ray. Grosse Pointe. Mich 1.00 Grand Total -$257,884.96 
Epifanio Locascio, Easton, Pa 10.00 
Albert J. Ravarino. '35, St, Louis, Mo— 10.00 
Dr. Guy L. Loranger, '28. Detroit, Mich. 1.00 

T. J. Ryan, Elizsibcth, N. J 1.00 Correction: A S5.00 contribution listed in the John Lively. '35. Brooklyn. N. Y 2.00 
T. J. Ryan, Jr.. Elizabeth. N. J 1.00 December, 1938, ALUMNUS from "Paul D, Thomas T. Lyons. Forest Hills. N. Y.__ 15.00 
H. F. Rech, Detroit, Mich 5,00 Halahan, Lakewood, Ohio," should have been Edward T. Lark. Whitestone. N. Y 10.00 
C, A. Raftrey, Gros.se Pointe, Mich 2,00 credited to Paul D. Holahan, '29, Lakewood, 
Walter Lynch. Newark. N. J -—„ . 1.00 Paul Limbach. Grosse Pointe Pk.. Mich. 3.00 Dr. James V. Lammey, Detroit, Mieh 1.00 Dr. T. A. Langan. Jersey City, N. J 5.00 

A. A. Mulreany. '31. Lawrence. Mass-. 10.00 ^^ad^ ^ ^c'ClA,^.^J.C.
J. H. Murray, West Brighton. N. Y 25.00 Allan Moore, Jersey City, N. J ___ 1.00 Mrs. Jos. A. Moj-nihan. Detroit. Mich.-1.00 Harold H. Munger. '15. Toledo, O. 20.00 Victor R. Mercado. '38. Breadloaf. Vt._ 1.00 

16 MEMBERS OF CONGREGATION ORDAINED JUNE 24 
Sixteen members of the Congrega­as E, Hewitt, C.S.C, Oak Park, 111.; '30, Rockford, 111.; Rev. Joseph A. tion of Holy Cross were ordained to Rev. Henry A. Geuss, C.S.C, Evans-Kehoe, C.S.C, Paterson, N. J., and the priesthood on Saturday, June 24, ville, Ind.; Rev. Edmund V. Campers, Rev. Dennis B. Sughrue, C.S.C, Cam­by the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., C,S,C,, South Boston, Mass.; Rev. bridge, Mass. LL.D., '15, in Sacred Heart Church, 
Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C, Franklin, 
Three of the newly ordained priests. 

Notre Dame. 
Pa.; Rev. Frederick F. Bergmann, 

Fathers Grabarz, Niemer and Woj­
C.S.C, Beloit, Kans.; Rev. Jerome R. 

Twelve of this class were member.s ciechowski, were from St. Casimir's 
Lawyer, C.S.C, Portsmouth, 0., and 

of the Class of 1935: Rev. G. Carl parish. South Bend, and spent their 
Rev. Joseph F. Hanna, C.S.C, Paw-

Hager, C.S.C, Rev. Vincent C. Thill-training together from the parochial 
tucket, R. I. 

man, C.S.C, Rev. Bernard M. Niemer, school through the seminary. They C.S.C, Rev. Leo C. Wojciechowski, The other four priests are: Rev. said their first Mass in an unusual C,S,C., and Rev. Casimir F. Grabarz, James J. Leahy, C.S.C, '33, Oak Park, and impressive triple eeremony in St. C.S.C., all of South Bend; Rev. Thom­111.; Rev. William T. Craddick, C.S.C, Casimir's Church. 
October, 1939 The Notre Danne Alumnus 
'39 Obediences Shift Priests, Brothers 
Many Former Notre Dame Faculty Members Called to Other Activities In Broadening Program of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross; New Priests Are Assigned 
In July, the Rev. Thomas Steinei-, C.S.C, '99, Provincial of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross in the United States, announced the assignments of the priests and brothers of the Con­gregation for the ensuing year. The program of the Congregation is con­stantly expanding, in the educational and mission fields particularly, and the problem of distribution of. the limited man-power of the Order is one which challenges the Provincial and the interests of each institution under his jurisdiction each year. Par­ticularly at Notre Dame, where the -AIJUMNUS interest centers, each year sees many familiar faces miss­ing, with natural regret until the merits of the posts to which they have been assigned become e\ident. 
Older alumni will be interested to learn that Rev. James J. French, 
A.M. '90, long a member of the Notre Dame faculty and administration, and for many years superior of the Mis­sion Band of the Congregation, has retired from six years' service as chaplain of St. Joseph Hospital, South Bend, and is living at the Commun­ity Infirmary on the campus he loved and served so long. Father French is the oldest priest of the Congi-ega­tion in the United States, in point of service. 
Rev. John F. DeGroote, for many years popular South Bend pastor, succeeds Father French as chaplain at the Hospital. 
Rev. Leo J. Heiser, '02, is chaplain of Reitz Memorial High School, Ev­ansville, Indiana. 
Rev. John Ryan, '06, long-time rector and history teacher at Notre Dame, achieves a cherished ambition for parish work with an assignment to Sacred Heart Church, New Orleans. 
Rev. John Reynolds, '17, teacher, rector and K. of C. counselor for a number of years at Notre Dame, has been assigned to St. Edward's Uni­versity, Austin. 
Rev. Raymond Clancy, '29, rector and teacher for several yeai-s on the campus, is assigned to St. Mary's Church, Austin, Texas. 
Rev. James E. Kline, '22, author­ity on astronomy and mathematics teacher at Notre Dame, has gone to St. Edward's University. 
The University of Portland (ex-Columbia) has had assigned .Rev. Charles Lee, '30; Rev. Joseph Mc­Grath, '32; Rev. Paul Fi-j'berger, '32, Rev. Michael Gavin, '32, and the newly ordained Rev. Henry Geuss, '35. 
Holy Cross College, Washington, B.C., receives Rev. Joseph McCart­ney, '26, as assistant superior, Rev. Joseph Gars'in, '29, for fui-ther study, and Rev. Maurice Powers, '33, to teach. 
Intei-esting to the many alumni who have listened to the Moreau Choir in the last two years, is the word that Rev. James Young, '32, director of the choir, has been gi-ant­ed leave to attend the Pius X School of Liturgical Music, in New York Citj'. Father Young will be accom­panied by Rev. John Gallagher, '33, who has been assistant pastor of St. Patrick's Church, South Bend. The newly ordained Rev. Thomas Hewitt, '35, succeeds Father Gallagher at St. Patrick's. 
Rev. Bernard Pegearski, '33, is be­ing transfeiTed from St. Stanislaus parish. South Bend, to the Mission Band, and is succeeded at St. Stanis­laus by the newly ordained Rev. Cas­imir Grabai-z, '35. 
Holy Trinity parish and high school in Chicago receives two newly or­dained pi'iests, Revs. Bernard Nie­raier, '35, and Leo Wojciechowski, '35. 
Rev. James Quinlan, '08, becomes chaplain at Cathedral High School, 
FATHER THOMAS STEINER, C. S. C. 
United States Provincial 

Indianapolis; Rev. Dennis O'Shea, '10, chaplain at Seton Infirmary, Aus­tin, Texas; Rev Joseph Brannigan, '23, assistant pastor St. Marsr's. Church, Austin, Texas; Rev. James Ryan, '20, chaplain Coyle Memorial High School, Taunton, Massachusetts; Rev. Philip Schaerf, '31, chaplain Gibault Home, Terre Haute, Indiana; the newly ordained Rev. Vincent Thillman, '35, chaplain and instruc­tor, St Charles Boys' Home, Wauwa­tosa, Wisconsin. 
Rev. Carl Hager, '35, newly or­dained, who attended the summer school of the Pins X School of Litur­gical Music, will direct the Moreau Choir. 
Rev. William H. Robinson, '20, be­comes master of novices and superior of St. Joseph's Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Indiana. 
Rev. John Lane, '30, becomes vice-president of St. Edward's University, -•Austin, Texas. 
Rev. James W. Donahue, '07, for­mer Superior General of the Congre­gation has been assigned to the new and important Mexican Missions, with headquarters in Austin, Texas. 
Revs. Arthur Hope, '20, and John O'Connell, '30, are in Sacred Heart Parish, New Orleans. 
Rev. Thomas Culhane, '31, is pas­tor of St. Helen's Church, George­town, Texas. 
-\mong the Brothers of the Con­gregation, one of the outstanding changes was that in which health forced the resignation from active duty of Brother Agatho, C.S.C. '25, as superior of Cathedral High, In­dianapolis. He is succeeded by Brother Marcian, '27, formerly head of Coyle High School, Taunton. Brother, Owen, '24, succeeds as prin­cipal of Coyle. 
Brother Eymard, '32, leaves Cath­olic Central, South Bend, to become director of St. Joseph of Holy Cross School, Valatie, New York. 
Brother Aidan, '27, Brother Elmo, '37, and Brother Edgar, '38, have been added to the staff of Central Catholic, South Bend. 
Brother Finbarr, '22, moves from Central Catholic in South Bend, to the treasurer's office, Notre Dame. 
Several other changes, both of priests and brothers, appear under the faculty changes at the University. 
Goodrich Awards 

Set Up 
To Honor the Late 
Father Cavanaush 
The Hon. James P. Goodrich, LL.D., '17 has memorialized at Notre Dame his affectionate esteem of the late Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, '90, by setting up at the University a prize foundation. Governor Goodrich was the War-time governor of Indiana, and Father Cavanaugh, then presi­dent of the University, was a member of the extraordinary commission that was organized in the State at that time to deal with emergency meas­ures. A fast friendship developed be­tween these tivo great men, and Gov­ernor Goodrich held in particular ad­miration Father Cavanaugh's sound principles of Americanism and his ex­traordinary gift of oratory. 
These two qualities of Father Cav­anaugh are memorialized in the Foun­dation. It is the wish of the ex-gov­ernor, for the present at least, that there be held annually at the Uni­versity an oratorical contest on the subject of the fundamentals of Amer­ican government, particularly the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States. 
The Goodrich - Cavanaugh Founda­tion, capitalized now at ?5,040, will furnish prizes of §100, §35, and 515, for first, second, and third places respectively. 
It is the wish of the governor that all earnings of the Foundation beyond the ?150 per year be added to the principal, at least until the principal of the fund be doubled. It will then rest with the President of the Uni­versity to' determine whether the nature of these prizes should be changed to some other form of in­centive to the studies of problems of government, for instance, to a schol­arship or scholarships for graduate study in Politics at the University of Notre Dame or elsewhere. 
The University is under deep obli­gation to Governor Goodrich for this splendid benefaction, and its gratis tude is particularly keen because the benefaction shows such keen appre­ciation of Father Cavanaugh's contri­bution to the State of Indiana in the great emergency of tivo decades ago. 
The University pledges the prayers of the faculty, students, and alumni for the welfare of its good friend. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
LAYDEN ALL-STAR COACH 
Notre Dame occupied the summer sportlight when Elmer F. Layden, '25, director of athletics, was elected head coach of the 1939 All-Star football team which played the pro­fessional champions, the New York Giants, on August 30 in Soldiers' Field, Chicago. The Giants came into the game with a team looking like mid-season and defeated the All-Stars 9-0. The brief training inter­val allowed was too short to prepare an offensive capable of piercing the world's champion line of defense. 
Notre Dame was well represented, and creditably, in all phases of the game. In the firet place, the annual summer post-'i'iew of All-Americans is the brain-child of Arch Ward, '21, Chicago Tribune sports editor-alum­nus. Layden was elected by a wide margin by a nation-wide poll of fans who delivered more than 5,000,000 points to their favorites. Joe Boland, '27, acted as special assistant, and on the Five-Man Staff were two other Notre Dame alumni, elected by pop­ular acclaim, Harry Stuhldreher, '25, Wisconsin, and E. P. "Slip" Madigan, '20, St. Mary's, California. Players were Earl Brovm, Joe Beinor, Mario Tonelli, Bill Hofer, Ed Longhi and Captain Jim McGoldrick, all of '38, 
The -AiUMNUS wishes to thank the individuals and the Notre Dame Clubs who cooperated with the 300 newspapers and radio stations which were interested in the nation-wide poll. The Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, and the Notre Dame Club of Detroit were particu­larly aggressive and effective in the campaign, but evidence was wide­spread of general participation by Notre Dame men in pushing their coaches and players to the top. Lay-den's election indicated one of the most popular choices in the history of the event. 


VAN WALLACE HALTED 
David Van Wallace, who planned to go to Lourdes in September, through the cooperation and initiative of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, was forced to abandon his plans after getting to New York, because the State Department felt it unwise to grant him a passport in view of the conditions abroad. 
The Notre Dame Clubs of Detroit, Buffalo and New York City had made excellent arrangements for Van and his mother, and extreme kindness had been evinced by everyone connected 
•with the pilgrimage. The United States Lines had made possible the shipping of the special coach wKch transports Van. 
The Van Wallaces went by boat to Buffalo, where they were met by a delegation of the Notre Dame Club of 
October, 1939 
Buffalo, and extended the courtesies of the city. 
In New York, through the activity of the New York Club, the party were guests at the Pennsylvania hotel, and were taken to the World's Fair by members of the Club. Van was also guest of honor at the Club's reception to the freshmen and undergraduates before they returned to Notre Dame and appeared on "We, the People," radio program. 
The Detroit Club, which made ar­rangements for the trip, reports spe­cial consideration and very great as­sistance from Mr. Basil Harris of the 
U. S. Lines, Mr. Leo Krass of the Chrysler export division, and Mr. Ed Heme, of the marine division of the Ford Motor Co. The Detroit Club also reported widespread response to the appeal for contributions to aid this project, and certainly the hope is shared by everyone that Van will ul­timately realize this ambition. 
Probably one of the most encourag­ing manifestations of friendliness to Van was the dedication of its Club Eetreat to his recovery, by the Notre Dame Club of New York. 
With the fortitude and the cheer­fulness which has marked his long affliction, Van has expressed resigna­tion under the circumstances and has returned to his home in Mount Clem­ens, Michigan, to await more favor­able conditions. The fimds raised for the purpose, which were intended to establish a trust in addition to the expenses of the pilgrimage, will be safeguarded for the eventual realiza­tion of the project. 

1937 Legof Director/ 
(Additions and C^iinffes) V ILLINOIS 
Chicago 
QUINLAN. John M.. A.B., W 69 W. Washington Si. SULLIVAN. John P.. Ph.B.. 14 
134 S. LaSallc SI. 
NEW JERSEY 
Lambcrlville 
FAHERT^', Philip J.. Jr.. A.B.. -33 136 N. Union Si. NEW YORK 
Elmira 
O'BRIEN, Francis F.. A.B.."35. LL.B.,'36 Hulelt Building 
North Tonaivanda 
BRICK, Anihony H., Jr., Ph.B.Com.,'36, Sweeney Building LL.B.,'37 OHIO 
Cclina 
MYERS, James W., LL.B., -38 319 N. Main SI. 
Columhus 
SHOOCNESSY, James White, A.B., -28 Huntington National Bank Building VERMONT 
Durlinglon 
LEARY. Matthew G., Jr., os. '32-34 200 Main St. 

October, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 
« Director of Athletic Publicity






ATHLETICS 
Ten years ago Knute Eockne said, "Prospects are not so good but pos­sibly fair." 
Now Elmer Layden says, "Pros­pects look good, but they are not as good as they look." 
Rockne's statement preceded a na­tional championship season in which there were several close calls. Prac­tically the same personnel that lost four games in 1928, lost none in 1929. So don't look for a predic­tion here. 
The same backfield personnel that won eight out of nine last year, and the same second string line that held its own when asked to, may lose four or five this year. Some of the close ones went Notre Dame's way last year—maybe they won't this year. 
Our personal conviction is that No­tre Dame stood last year on the threshold of a return to the good old days, the days of blocking and tack­ling for keeps. Downfield tackling experienced a revival in 1938. We think it will stick. And in the good old days, Notre Dame made its own breaks, and its luck became so in­cessant that word-hunters had to search for another descriptive term. 
Our personal hunch is that 1939 may very well simulate the 1909, 1919, and 1929 seasons, although we hesitate to cloud an otherwise serene atmosphere by uttering the world "undefeated." 
Biggest stumbling block is the ar­rangement of the schedule which calls for the boys-to be "up" for the open­er with a Purdue club which has its eyes on the Big Ten title, to be keyed in mid-season for Carnegie Tech, this year's standout in the East, and to rise again for Northwestern and Southern California at the end. In between are a scrappy Georgia Tech' unit, the "best prospects in several years," according to Coach Matty Bell, at Southern Methodist; a Navy team equal to last year's, an Array team with a powerful backfield and a fighting tradition, and an improved Iowa club. 
The experts say "If Notre Dame can get by Purdue, it's clear sailing." Nothing could be further from the truth. If Notre Dame doesn't get by Purdue, all may be lost. But the Irish can't afford to let down too much for any game on the schedule. Coach Layden's lads realize that Purdue has 25 lettermen, therefore experience, and also that the Boilermakers are probably the fastest team in a speed-crazy middle western picture. They'll be up for the Purdue ganie, all right. 
How much they let down after either just now—everyone but the coaches victory or defeat will largely deter­seems to be—^we'U take a look at the mine the success of the season. Bal­ball-carrying division first. ance must be maintained after this 
Steve Sitko again mans the quar­stiff opener. 

terback post. Barring injury, he Since you're probably more inter­should take his place with the great­ested in the backfield than the line est in Notre Dame history. He's can­
1939 Notre Dame Varsity Football Roster 
Nnine Pos. Home Town Prepamtorj School Are Wit. 
Ht. Ex. 

Alberl, Francis Joseph L.G. Covington, Va. Covington H. S, 204 5:10 2
Ames, Richard Francis R,G. Jit. Vernon, 111. Mt. Vernon H. S. 167 Arbolt, Peter Samuel Ii.E, LaSalle, III. St. Bede, Peru, in, 188 6:0 .\rcher, Clyde •William Q.B. Parkersburg, "W. Va.Parker3bure H. S. 178 5:10VBagarus, Stephen, Jr. R,H, South Bend, Ind. Washington H. S. 15S 5:li:VBairley, Roy James R.T. Monroe. Michigan Monroe H. S. 200 5:11 B.arber, Robert Anthony R.E, Erie, Penna. Erie H, S. 180 6:1 Bereolos, Hercules I..G, Hammond, Ind. Hammond H. S. 
198 
5:11
176

Biagi, Frank Walter L.E. St Paul, Minn. Mech. Arts H. S. 
193 5:11 Brosey, Henry Cllftord R.T. Ozone Park, N. Y. Brooklyn Tech, N,T. 2( 235 6:1 
Breunan, Thomas Joseph R.E, Chicago, in. St. Leo H. S. 6:1 
217

Brutz, James Charles L.T. "Warren, Ohio Warren H. S. 6:0
170

Cassidy, Tiiaddeus Donald R,H. Altoona, Penna. Altoona H. S. 3:9
ISO

Clilebeck, Andrew John F.B. St. Paul, Minn. St. Thomas H. S. 
186 6:0 

Corgan, Michael Henry R.H. -\lma, Michigan Alma H. S. 3:10
18S

Crlmmlns, Bernard Anthony R.H. Louisville, Ky. St. Xavler H. S. 171 3:11 
Cutlip, Lorenzo Gordon R.H. North Bend, OrcgonNorth Bend H. S. 
1S8 5:614•DeFranco, Joseph Francis L.G. Welrion, W. Va. Weir H. S. 23 185 5:7Doody. Frank Arthur Q.B. Oak Park, III. Fenwick H. S. 19 204 5:10Ebll, Raymond Henry L.E. Ironwood, Mich. St. Ambrose H. S. 20 189 6:2Finner.in. John Clement 0. Columbus, Ohio Rosar>-H. S. 21 204 6:1Ford, James Brendan C, Binghamton, N. T. Allentown, Pa., Prep 21 298 6:0Ford. William .Michael L.T. Janesvllle, Wis, Janesvllie H. S. 18 202 

ISO 6:3« Grady, William Henry L.G. Holyoke, Mass. St. John, Danvers 19 160 6:1
•Gallagher.
 Thomas Charles L.T. Chicago, III. Leo H. S. 22 

172 5:11 Hackner, James Robert L.H. Lacrosse, Wis. .\auinas H. S. 19 

•Gubanlch,
 John Aioysius R.G. ~Phoenixville, "Pa, Phoenixville H. S. 20 


179 5:9 Hargrave, Robert Webb Q.B. Evansviile, Ind. Reitz Memorial H. S. 19 
217 5:11 
164 3:11

•H.ar\'ey, Thaddcus Harrison R.T. Wlimctte, 111. New Trier, Winnetka 21 
204 6:2

Hayes, Clarence William Q.B, -\tchison, Kans. -Maur Hill H. S. 21 
193 3:9

Hines, ilichael Leo R.T. Kewanmt. Ind. Kewann.a H. S. 19 
Hogan, Donald John L.H, Chicago, III. St. Ignatius H. S. 18 204 
6:3 Hollcndoner, Francis Joseph L.T. Chicago, 111. De LaSalle Inst. 21 182 
6:2
155 

6:3 Kellehor, John Charles Q.B. Lorain, Ohio Lorain H. S. 21 190 
Juzwik. Steven Robert R.H, Chicago, III. Dc Paul Academy 21 190 
•Kelly,
 John Francis [Capt.] R.E. Rutherford, N. J. St. Mary's H. S. 23 194 6:2 Kelly, Peter .Mullen L.G. Chicago, 111. Fenwick. O.ak Park 21 165 3:10 

Newburgh. _ Y. 178 Koch, Robert James Q.B. Calumet City, III, Oath. Cen., Hammond 20 173 3:10 Korth, Howard Joseph R.G. Saginaw, Mich. Saginaw H. S. 20 163 6:1 Kovatch, John George, Jr. R.E. South" Bend,-Ind,-H. S. 165 

•Kerr,
 William Howard L.E. _ N. Newburgh Free Acad. 24 6:1 


~ "" -Washington 19 6:2 Krlstoir, Walter William R.H. Chicago, III. Dc LaSalle Academy 21 177 3:10 Laiber, Joseph R.G. South Bend, Ind. Washington H. S. 19 178 3:10 
Larkin. Edward Joseph R.E. Peoria. lU. SDalAIng Institute 20 192 6:2 Lee, .\il»ert Bush F.B. Carllnvilie. III. Carllnvlile H. S. 21 205 3:10 Leon.ard, Robert John F.B. Cincinnati, Ohio St. Xavler H. S. 22 183 6:1 Lillis, Paul Bernard B.T. Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Bennett. Builalo, N.T. 18 5:2
204 Ijopez, Armand Mulier L.T. Pabeus; Texas Fabeus H. S. 19 189 6:0
155

Maddock, Robert Charles R.G. Santa Ana. Calif. Santa Ana H. S. 19 5:11% ilaioney, John MalachI C. Boise, Idaho St. Teresa's Academy 22 155 6:3 Itarlto, Peter Joseph L,H. South Bend, Ind. Washington H. S. 19 174 5:10 SIcCabo, George Joseph, Jr. L.H. D.avenport, la. St. Ambrose Academy 19 196 5:11
19o

lIcGannon, William Vincent L.H. Evansvllle. Ind. Reitz Memorial H. S. 20 1S4 5:9 
•Mclntyre, John Aioysius, Jr. C Providence. R. I. LaSalle Academy 22 ISl 6:1 McNeill, Charles Edward F.B, 186 6:lJi
Midi.and. Penna. Lincoln H. S. 20 
Hartford, Conn.
•Mooney, Alan Brendan C. Bulkeley H. s. 22 155 6:3
Hammond, Ind.
Moser, Kenneth Edward I1.E. Hammond S. S. 21 190 6:1 
•O'Brien, John Dennis R.E. Swissvale, Penna. Swissvalc H. S. 200 6:14 O'Meara, Walter Charles Q.B. Stamford, Conn. Staniford JL S. 180 5:8 O'Xeni, John Joseph R.G. Syracuse, N. Y. Christian Bro.s. Acad. 21 205 5:11 O'Xeill, Robert Francis R.T, Piioenixville, Pa, LaSalle, Phlla. 22 196 6:0 O'Reilly, ilartin Gordon C. Chicago, 111, Mt. Carmel H. S. 19 220 6:2 Osterman, Robert Thomas C Detroit. Jlicii. St. Theresa H. S. 20 175 6:3 
Ostroski, Edward Adam R.G. Shamokin, Penna. Shamokin H. S. 20 176-5:9% Papa, Joseph John L,T. Pittsburgh, Penna. KIskI, Saltsburg, Pa, 21 204 6:1 Pepelnjak. NichoLas Frank L.H. Virginia, Minn. Roosevelt H. S. 19 190 5:10 Petschel. Howard Kenneth R.E. St. Paul, Minn. Washington H. S. 20 6:1
195 

•Piepul, Milton John F.B. ThompsonvIUe,Conn.Enfleld H. S. 21 192 6:1 Postupack, Joseph Victor F.B. JfcAdoo. Penna. 21tcAdoa H. S. 19 185 5:11 Prokop, Joseph Michael R.H. Cleveland, Ohio Cathedral Latin H.S. 19 200 6:1
188 Rassas, George James L.E, Stamford. Conn. Stamford H. S. 22 225 6:3 
Raaf, Robert Henry L.T. St. Clair. Mo. St. CLalr H, S. IS 6:1 
188

Riffle, Charles Francis R.G. Warren, Ohio Warren H. S. 21 180 6:0 Rlvely, Clalr Michael I„T. Altoona, Penna. Altoona Cath. H. S. 20 187 6:1 Robinson, Angus I«,T. Stamford, Conn, Greenwich, Conn. H.S. 20 160 6.-2 
•Saggau,
 Robert Joseph L.H. Denison, la, Denison H. S. 19 183 0:0 Schmid, Charles William R.T. Detroit, Mich, De LaSalle 183 5:10 Schrenker, Henry Pershing L.G. {•^iwood. Ind. Elwood H. S. 175 5:10% 1 

•Sheridan,
 Benjamin ALason L.H. Havana. III. Havana H. S. 189 5:9 2 

Sheridan. Philip Francis L.E. Rutherford. N. J. St. Mary's H. S. 196 6:1% 1 

•SItko,
 Steven Joseph Q.B; Port Wayne, Ind. Central H. S. 183 6:0 2 


Steimaszek, Edward Thomas L.G. Chicago, 111. Mt. Carmel H. S. 192 5:8 0 ••Stevenson, Harry, Jr. I..H. Bloomfleld, N, J. E.Orange. N.J., H.S. 185 6:1 2 
Sullivan, Edward Joseph L.G. Belle Harbor, N. T.St. John's, Brooklyn 181 5:9% 0 Sullivan, Robert Edwin R.G. Helena, Montana St. Charles H. S. 22 5:11 2 • •Thesing, Joseph Roger F.B. Cincinnati. Ohio Elder H. S. 21 5:11 2 Williams, Theodore Patrick P.B. Gloucester, Mass. Gloucester H. S. 22 5:11 1 ••Zontlnl, Louis Rogers R.H. Whitesville, W. Va. Sherman, Seth, W.^Va. 21 5:8% 2 
•—Indicates number of monograms won. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1939 
ny, alert, rugged, fast, sure, and ex­perienced. He's not given to injury. And he's playing "rougher" this year than ever before. Under him are Johnny Kelleher — Bill's son — and Walt O'Meara, juniors; and Sopho­mores Bob Hargrave and Jackie Hayes. We can dismiss the latter two pretty much, for who ever saw a standout sophomore quarterback at Notre Dame, in the past 25 years any­how? O'Meara and Kelleher are sharp, willing, and quick. They weigh in at 155 pounds each, which will be a detriment. 
The halfbacks have swift, scat, and savvy. They are the most talented group Layden has seen in si.x years. Bob Saggau again heads the left half­backs. This flame - thatched, green-eyed instrument of destruction should have a better year in 1939 than in 1938. He's more experienced and he's learning to cut. He has the same speed, accurate throwing arm, and strong left foot for punting. Bill Mc-Gannon, who rose from the fourth to the second team off his showing in scrimmage, ranks with Ben Sheridan as the best cutting left halfback on the squad. He can fake them and leave them, Harry Stevenson still has his pitching arm and can boom punts, but he lacks running speed. He's mighty comforting to have around to get the boys out of a hole, but exper­ience is the only other department in which he has an edge on Sheridan and McGannon. He can possibly equal Saggau in these departments. 
Lou Zontini, favorite of many No­tre Dame fans, isn't resting on his laurels. He can't, for although he is the smoothest of all the backs and makes his runs look easiest of all, he has an improved senior Mike Corgan on his heels. And pressing Corgan are Bemie Crimmins, a sophomore from the mold of Marty Brill; and Steve Juzwik, sprinter and sopho­more. 
Joe Thesing, only three-year regu­lar on the team, finds Milt Piepul, who started last year's Army game, hot on his heels. Bob Leonard and Whitey Lee are behind them, quite a way behind, but still capable reserves. Thesing's running looks looser than ever this year—^but possibly it's the sloppy tacking of early drills that makes everyone look better. Piepul is the moose type, but is far from being muscle bound. In other words, he is invariably good for short yardage when needed, yet he can dodge a bit, too. 
And while on the subject, please let us burn up at the guy who remarked Piepul is all right if he can be cured of fumbling! Milt made one fumble last year. It was on his own 35-yard line. Southern California marched to a touchdown after recovering, requir­ing some eight plays to make the dis­tance, so please don't sell Piepul down the river as a butter-fingered unreli­able. Br-r-r-r!! ! 
The line doesn't come up to the roseate picture we've drawn of the backfield. Gone are Bro\vn, Beinor, McGoldrick, Longhi, Bossu, and Kell. Only six guys, but they were the fellows, three of whom made all-American, who sprung last year's touchdown makers. 
Layden admits satisfaction with his first line, which is last year's No. 2 forward wall. But he must be al­lowed a legitimate frown when he contemplates (a) coordinating that line with last year's starting back­field, (2) sifting his squad to find a second and third line, and (c) co­ordinating these lines >vith their re­spective backfields. That, mates, is a job. 
As a matter of fact, Layden isn't too sure who will compose his first line at this writing, two weeks be­fore the opener. Bud Kerr, Brown's understudy last year, appears to have things his own way at left end. Pete Arboit, George Eassas, Phil Sheridan, and Frank Biagi are waging a four-way fight for next ranking. 
Left tackle appears to be a possible weak spot. Tom Gallagher, junior from the shock troops, will do all right. So will Jim Brutz, husky soph­omore from Warren, Ohio, who learns fast. Boodie Albert, a senior, has been installed at left tackle, having been a guard up until Sept. 11. Beyond them lies a question mark, and for that matter Albert hasn't been tested at his new post. Injury to either Gal­lagher or Brutz may prove disastrous. 
Joe DeFranco has the inside track at left guard on experience. Pete Kel­ly and Heinie Sehrenker are pressing him hard. Ed Sullivan, the late Capt. Joe Sullivan's kid brother, a 195­pounder; and Ed Stelmaszek, both sophomores, are also in the battle. 
Bob Osterman, mos t improved squad man in spring drills, was com­ing fast in early drills, and he will be either a reinforcement or a menace to John Mclntyre and Al Mooney. Center is in capable hands. 
Johnny Gubanich, injured at this writing, has the most unpleasant task of all the present regulars. He has to sit with his 158 pounds on the sidelines, while big bruisers like Chuck Riffle and Hercules Bereolos throw his job up for grabs. Guban­ich's weight is against him, but he has all the heart in the world. 
Tad Harvey, a senior who has come up through the ranks, and Paul Lillis, a high class sophomore, backed by Cliff Brosey, also a sophomore, have the right tackle jobs cut and dried apparently. Injury here can't be dis­concerting, as at left tackle. 
Not even Capt. Johnny Kelly can call his job his own, but before you Irishmen start writing indignant let­ters, let me point out that begorra it's Johnny O'Brien who's giving him a battle. 0 yes, and Tom Brennan isn't a bad third. 

This tentative 1939 ^-arsity is comprised. In the line left to ri|;ht, of Captain Kdly, Harrcy, Gnbanich. Mclntj-re, BeFntnco, Gallaicher and Kerr and, in the backfield, of Zontini, Thesinr, Sitko and Semeuu. 
October. 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
EUROPE FROM AFAR 
(Continued from Page 7) 

Few Frenchmen settled in the conquered territories whose economic development has been mediocre. The conquests were, first and last, military, and military riches were Mught in the form of Algerian, Moroccan, and Negro troops. 
Most of my service in the World War was in contact with Moroccan divisions, and I can attest that when organized by French officers ­they are the peers of any soldiers in the world. 
Encouraged by military succes5es against the natives, reinforced by African troops. France looked around for allies, with whose support it could again become, if not a dom­inant, at least an equal partner in the game of international politics. 
Old Germany, so often nivished by Swed­ish, Russian, and French Invasions while split up into principalities, did not emerge from the feudal system by the reforms of Stein until early in the nineteenth century. German human beings had been rented out like horses to attack our forefathers in the Revolutionary war. Germany was, therefore, three hundred years behind the other empires in political and industrial evolution. In world politics it was almost another hundred years further be­hind, because it was not until the victory over France, following victories over Austria-Hungary and Denmark, that Bismarck con­solidated four kingdoms, six grand duchies, five duchies, seven principalities, three free cities, and the French provinces of Alsace-Lorraine into the German empire. 
German Empire Emerges 

Germany's power, created entirely by the sword, was exercised by an hereditary mili­tary nobility, which took little count of the industrial civilization springing up within its enlarged frontiers. Keenly aware of the em­pires France and England had amassed dur­ing its years of fragmentation, Germany pressed forward to obtain a greater position in world affairs, sent an army to Pekin in ISOO. obtained such colonies as were not already preempted, desired a world position in keeping with its new found power. 
With Germany at this time was associated Austria-Hungary, a group of discordant races united under the traditional crown of the Hapsburgs. Their emperor was the successor of Charlemagne, but how sunk the glory of the Hapsburgs! Pillaged by Frederick the Great, three times overrun by Napoleon I., saved from revolution by the Czar of Russia, defeated by Napoleon III., overthrown by Bis­marck. Austria-Hungary was hard pushed to maintain itself, and wjis dependent upon its youthful neighbor for support. 
The rulers of Austria-Hungary feared that unless it incorporated at least a part of the countries recently held by Turkey, the empire would dissolve into its - constituent races. 
Italy, once called by Mettemich "a geo­graphical expression," had been united into a kingdom hardly forty years, operating in­efficiently under a form of government mod­eled after England's, but without England's traditions to help it work. 
With rapidly increasing population, without 
natural resources within its boundary, Italy 
was looking for an opportunity to increase 
its territorial holdings. 
To the east lay Russia, much the youngest of the nations to enter European politics. Far from marching to the Crusades, Russians were at that time slaves under the yoke of the Mongols. So great were their sufferings that the brutalities of Ivan the Terrible and Peter the Great seemed to them hardly more than necessary military discipline. 
At the time that George Mason and Patrick Henry were formulating the doctrine of free government, the famous Queen Catherine— called by her son the greatest harlot In Eu­rope—was conniving at the murder of her husband, and Russian girls were on sale at the slave markets of Odessa and Constanti­nople. 
From the time of Peter. Russian monarchs had entered the European quarrels and had copied European diplomacy and European military theory, but had done little to improve the lot of the hundred million illiterates of many races, among whom serfdom existed as late as the year 1863. 
The despotism of a bureaucracy and an of­ficers' corps—largely of Baltic origin—was endured partly through ignorance and partly because the Slavs were still in a war for racial independence. 
The Balkans and the Orient 
The Turks had been driven from the Crimea, and had just been ejected from the Balkan peninsula. leaving new states, Rou­mania, Bulgaria. Serbia, and Greece, without civilized traditions, seething within and flam­ing without with tribal rivalries. Russia wished to protect and lead these states as fellow Slavs, and watched its old ally, Aus­tria, with bitter jealousy. 
Japan was an oriental country In the early stages of feudalism when awakened by Perry. It immctiiately instituted a bloodless revolu­tion, and adopted a constitution modeled on that of the German empire, reposing all final authority, under the Mikado, in the military. 
The sons of the ruling families were sent far and wide in quest of western education. Soldiers studied in the German army; sailors in the British navy. The Japanese armed semces were modeled after these organi­zations. 
Japan made war on China in 1S94. and won easily, hut was refused permission to oc­cupy Korea and the Lio-tung peninsula by the joint action of Russia. France, and Ger­many. 
In conseituencc, Japan entered into an alli> ance with England to keep these countries off its back, and in 1905 made war on Russia, destroyed the Russian navy, and defeated its armies. As the price of peace. Japan forced Russia to cede the half of Saghalien which had been annexetl in IS57. to surrender its lease of the Kwaniung peninsula and Port Arthur, evacuate Manchuria, and recognize Japan's sphere of influence in Korea. 
Over many years these different countries had fought one another—singly, or in such alliances as the needs or ambitions of the moment made advantageous. 
In 1914 Russia. France. England, and Japan were in one alliance; Germany, Aus­tria, and Italy in another. Such was the state ot Europe and the world when friction between Austria and Serbia led to the assas­sination of Archduke Francis Ferdinand, and to the outbreak of the World war. 
Italy deserted Its allies and joined its 
enemies upon promise of great territorial 
reward. 
Japan remained true to its alliance with Great Britain, and seizing the German terri­tory ot Kiaochow, drove German ships from the Pacific, escorted Australian and New Zea­land troops to Europe, and took all German islands in the Pacific ocean north of the equator. 

Since the situation in Europe interests you primarily because of its effects upon us, it is necessary to trace our relations with Euro­pean governments. 
Our forebears, while still British citizens, carried on wars with France and Spain, the other two great countries occupying America. With the assistance of British armies, they took Canada from France, Later, with the assistance of French and Spanish armies, they drove the British from the original thirteen colonies. Florida. Louisiana, and the North­west Territory. 
Tneir energy far surpassed that of any other people in any time. They recovered from a devastating war, originated the best government ever devised by man, and pushed forth in every direction. 
New England ships became the world's greatest carriers. When these were harassed by Barbary pirates, the new nation carried on a successful war in Africa. 
The urge for expansion led to the Invasion and acquisition of Florida from Spain, and of Louisiana from France, under virtual threat of war. 
A combination of circumstances led to the second war with England—with Indecisive re­sults. Both sovereignties remained within their territories at its conclusion, and ex­tended the common boundary line to the Pffrific coast. 
This country stimulated the revolutions of Spanish America, and by the enunciation of the Monroe Doctrine stopped the proposed move of continental European powers to re­store Spanish rule. After\vards Texas was annexed, and later the territory which be­came California, Nevada. Utah, Arizona, and New Mexico. 
Friction with Japan over the treatment of American sailors led to the expedition of Commodore Pferry which opened that hermit kingdom to the world. 
England and France lent aid to the South­ern States during our Civil war and only desisted when threatened with war on our part. Spain, England, and especially France occupied Mexico until they w*ere forced out by the assembly of an American army on the Texas border at the conclusion of our Civil war. At its conclusion, also, Alaska was purchased from Russia in gratitude for its moral assistance and naval demonstration in our behalf. 
American Expansion 

The Hawaiian Islands were annexed in 1S9S. Also in 1898 the United States by war de­prived Spain of its last American possessions. 
Cuba had been in revolt for years. The Spanish army tried to crush the revolt by the means which are always used on occasions of this kind — oppressive, brutal methods, un­avoidable when one country insists npon dominating another. 
These first aroused our sympathy, then our indignation, finally a veritable crusade to end them. 
An unexpected development in this war changed the international significance of the United States. At the time war broke out, an American fleet was in Hongkong, pursuing the leisurely, social life of the navies of that day. This fleet was ordered to attack a Span­ish fleet in the Philippine Islands. It is fair to say that no one American in each hundred thousand had ever heard of -the Philippine Islands. Their first information was the news that Dewey's fleet had sailed from Hongkong on' its adventurous mission. It was before the days of wireless communica­tion, and. while Dewey's fleet was lost in the 
18 The Notre Dame Alumnus October. 1939 
Pacifia the nation underwent an agony of suspense, suddenly to be electrified by the story of his decisive victory at Manila Bay. 
He found a successful insurrectionary force besieging; the city. MessaRo and understand­iuKS passed between him and the insurrectos. When an American army was sent to the Philippines to capture the naval base for the use of the American fleet, it was landed with their consent. 
The Spanish garrison, now without possi­bility of defense, and fearinB massacre by the tllipinos, agreed to surrender the city to the American army which, in turn, promised to keep the insurrectos out. 
U. S. Diplomats Created 

Men of my sarrison \vill remember how the tension between the two armies increased, how the Filipinos opened fire with modern Mauser rifles, and how the Americans, un­able to reply effectively with their single shot, short range, black powder SprJngfields. were constrained to defend themselves by attacking with the bayonet, driving the Filipinos from their positions; how. this operation recurring, they were led farther and farther into Philip­pine territory and. Anally, to complete its subjugation, not without recourse to some of the methods so heartily condemned when used by the Spanish in Cuba. A war to free the Cubans had resulted in the connuest of the iniipinos. That is why we are loath to take a holier than thou attitude towards other countries involved in the infinite perplexities of war. 
Now took place the incident which chancetl the entire aspect of American foreign affairs. 
In 1S9C America had been on the verge of another war with England over the latter's demands on Venezuela, when England had been compelled to abandon its belligerent at­titude because of the Jameson raid in South Africa, which portended a South African war in which Germany expressed the deepest sym­pathy with the Boers. 
Germany, intent on extending its empire in the Pacific, was greatly surprised and chagrined in 1898 that the Cuban war led an American fleet and an American army to anticip''te it in the Philippine Islands. A German fleet, superior in power to the Amer­ican fleet, repaired to Manila harbor and be­gan a series of provocations. American rein­forcements wore started to Manila. It was believed that the Germans would have forced the issue while still superior in strength, but that the British fleet, much the strongest present, placed itself between the Germans pnd the Americans. 
This action, at a moment of great national emotion, turned agrinst Germany the more than a centurj* old bitterness entertained by Americans for England. The hostility was increased when German marines were landed in Venezuela in 1902 and withdrawn only because of a threatened attack by the American navy. 
Up to then, in monarchies American min­isters, as representatives of a republic, had been looked down npon by ambassadors repre­senting kings, treated as inferiors, and had reacted to the disdain by pressing their coun­try's interests with republican vigor. 
Now all this was to be changed. The power which had risen in the west became socially ambitious, sent ambassadors to the courts of Europe, and. in imitation of the European monarchies, established a profes­sional diplomatic service. 
Our ambassadors, for the most part, were not received cordially, but the new British foreign policy—to work with America—im­pelled the British ambassadors all over the world to stand sponsor for them and render them every possible service. In that way the British foreign office substantially annexed the American st:ite department. 
The diplomats of Europe were enrolled from the aristocracy and. while carrj-ing out the foreign policies of their respective nations, enjoyed the luxuries of court life. The Amer­ican diplomats were now received into this life of official and social superiors. Ameri­cans primarily interested in this social ad­vancement crowded into the diplomatic service. 
Since the diplomatic victories over England and Germany in the Venezuela atTairs, and the naval and military victory over Spain had caused all European nations to respect the Monroe Doctrine, our only foreign policy had been achieved. 
Our professional diplomats had nothing to do but to dance attendance at court, losing their republican principles and becoming, in effect, the agents in the American state de­partment of the courts to which they were accredited. 
By similar methods—^by international mar­riages, by royal visits, and by skillful ex­tending and withholding of invitations (which Sir Ronald Lindsay described as "just like heaven—some are taken and some are left") to the embassy in Washington and the sum­mer embassy in Newport—that nebulous, un­organized hierarchy, known as society, had also been rendered servile and serviceable to British politics-
Thc first result of the new order of diplo­matic and social affairs was the Hay-Paunce­fote treaty, under which it was proposed to give up sovereignty over the Panama canal, and give England treaty rights in this purely American enterprise. 
Diplomatic Domination 

In the contest which later arose for con­trol of American foreign policy the English diplomats outdistanced the:r rivals so far that when the World war broke out the American state department was enlisted vigorously on their side. 
While Mr. Wilson was campaigning for re­election on the platform of keeping us out of war. Mr. Lansing had stretched international law to the breaking point to lend aid to Eng­land, not only at the expense of the central powers, but at the expense of American inter­ests. Eventually he produced a situation which brought us into the war, and changed a Franco-British defeat into victory. 
For ser\*iccs to Great Britain a tablet was erected in "Westminster Abbey to American Ambassador Page—a tribute he shares with Major Andre, the seducer of Benedict Arnold, 
All this was followed by terrible peace treaties. 
France, after four years with enemy armies on its soil, its towns bombed, its country filled with undesired but indispensable allied troops, tried to protect and revenge itself by first rendering Germany helpless and then by keeping it bled white. 

Part of Germany was transferred back to France, a little to Belgium, a little to Den­mark, some to Czechoslovakia, some to Poland, which was given a corridor to the sea—a cor­ridor that separated the two parts of the German republic 
Cash payments and payments in kind were exacted far beyond the capacity of Germany to pay. and, upon failure to pay. the French army marched into and occupied the Rhine­land. 
France. England. English colonies, and Japan divided Germany's overseas possessions. The Austro-Hungarian empire was broken up, part of it going to Italy, part to Serbia, part to Roumania, part to the newly manufactured nation of Czechoslovakia, and part to the re­constituted state of Poland. Germany and Austria were forbidden to form a customs union. 
These peace terms, atrocious as they .-c-em to us. and atrocious as they were, followed the pattern of European peaces as far back as the records RO. They were, however, out­rageous desecrations of the principles set forth when American soldiers were conscripted to fight in Europe, and they were violations of the terms of peace which President Wilson had given the defeated nations to believe they would he accorded. 
Not long after the peace was agreed upon, and while he was campaigning unsuccessfully to make the Senate ratify it, came President Wilson's mental breakdown. Participants in the peace conference have said that his mind showed signs of collapse during the delibera­tions. It is at least charitable to believe that such was the case. 
Post-War Upheavals 

A number of other wars ensued. The Russian bolshevists invaded Poland and were defeated .it Warsaw., In this war. Czecho­slovakia openly sympathized with Russia and incurred the permanent enmity of Poland. 
The Baltic Provinces of Russia successfully threw off the Russian yoke, and formed the little countries of Estonia. Latvia. Lithuania, and Finland. 
^Vhile these countries had been subjugated by Russian armies, they had, in turn, fur­nished Russia with the larger part of its tech­nical experts, higher bureaucracy, and staff officers. Those serving in Russia at the time of the revolution were massacred, leaving Russia with a minimum population of edu­cated people. 
The Poles invaded Lithuania and took the city of Vilna. 
The Lithuanians in turn took by force the city of Memel. which hnd been set up in the peace treaty as a free city. 
A volunteer expedition of Italians seized nume, whose status had not yet been fixed. Italy later made good the seizure. 
Greece invaded Turkey. The Greek army was destroyed, and the city of Smyrna, largely inhabited by Greeks, was burned. 
Other wars were carried on by France and Spain in Morocco; by England against various Arab tribes, and along the frontier of India, and in Palestine, where England established a Jewish settlement. 
Ireland revolted and after several years of guerrilla warfare secured recognition of the Irish Free State as a self-governing domin­ion. It now calls itself an independent repub­lic, and is carrying on agitation for the an­nexation of those parts of Ireland still at­tached to the British commonwealth. 
More lately Italy overran Ethiopia, and has only just conducted a military rodeo in Al­bania. Germany has occupied Austria and part of Czechoslovakia by a combination of force, diplomatic conspiracy, and popular con­sent. Hungary and Ptoland have grabbed other parts of Czechoslovakia. 
Long before this, Russia had fallen victim 

October, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
to communism, that doctrine which appeals to all that is vicious in mankind—theft, murder, and torture—and explains it with the skill of Belial to delude the victims of their passions that they arc following high ideals. 
Communism took over Hungary. Commun­ism at one time possessed half of Italy: and communism hattled for Germany and Austria. The peace at Versailles turned out to be more terrible than the w^ar it followed. 
Boumania expelled communism from Hun­gary with an army, and rewarded itself with the province of Transylvania. 
In the helplessness of the Italian govern­ment the Fascists- marched on Rome with the consent of the king and instituted a dictator­ship. 
AVhether the Germans and Austrians could have maintained a republican form of govern­ment may be doubtful in view of their recent emergence from the feudal system, from lack of any conception of the rights of man. and from their custom to accept the Roman law imposed upon them from above.' "Whatever chance they might have had was taken away by the brutality of the peace treaty and the continuing exactions of France and England. 
In desperation they succumbed to the blan­dishments and brutalities of a desperado. Hitler's excesses have been excused and en­dured for the Same reason that those of Ivan the Terrible and Peter the Great were endured in Russia—the dire need of stern, military discipline—and have borne much political fruit to the German nation. 
U, S. Post-War Relations 

The treaty of Versailles and its exactions have been denounced; the German Rhineland. the Saar, and Memcl reoccupied. Large parts of the empire of Bismarck have been united with large parts of the Austrian empire. Germany is once more a powerful empire. 
Many actions of the government have out­raged our traditions and our sense of right— the enslavement of the Czechs, the expropria­tion of the Jews, the oppression of the churches. 
These, perhaps, may be explained, though not excused, by the backwardness of German political development which, as I have said, is three hundred years behind that of the more advanced civilizations. 
In the past it has not been unusual for states to dominate religions or for religions to dominate states. Nor has the American doctrine of religious tolerance and the separa­tion of church and state obtained full accept­ance in Europe today. But in Western Eu­rope the conflict has been between different professions of Christianity. 
The present movement in Germany appears to indicate a return to the worship of mythol­ogy. This mythology, called Nibelungenlied, flowing from the defense of the Burgundians against the Huns, is being advocated as the religion of the state. It is dissimilar from those of Arthur and the Round Table in Eng­land, and of Rollo and Oliver in France, in that the heroes were not Christians, hut pagans. 
The political alliances in Europe today are Germany united in offensive and defensive alliance with Italy, Japan, and, apparently. Spain which cither is or is not through its revolution seeking to regain and gain terri­tory and trade from England and France which are in alliance to hold their empires and spoils of the World war, and which are seeking to obtain assistance from Russia and to procure again the service of the United States which was so outrageously betrayed twenty years ago. 
Our own post-war relations with Europe-have been servile. 
During the war our navy had embarked upon a huge building program which after the war threatened to eclipse the British navy. Through machinations unkno%\'n to me an in­ternational conference was held at which it was agreed that the American navy should only equal that of England. American battle­ships were destroyed and, by interpretations of the treaty by our state department, the American navy was reduced from first to second place. 
Again, in accordance with British foreign policy at this time, a treaty abandoning the right to fortify certain American islands was made with Japan. The so called nine-power treaty was made, guaranteeing the status quo in China—a matter vital to England, but of slight importance to America. 
^Vhen Japan invaded Manchuria, Secretary Stimson wished to act in defense of these English rights. England found it Inconven­ient to do so. 
Let us look at Europe today. There is the German empire, formed of a union of the empire of Bismarck, less certain parts of Germany taken from it by the treaty of Ver­sailles—in all of which there are elements wishing annexation to the empire—with that of Hapsburg Austria. less some of the dis­cordant races which had weakened the old empire. The only racial discord in this em­pire is furnished by the Czechs, who are not numerous enough to be of political or mili­tary consequences. 
With Germany is allied Italy, in quest of further territories and resources which were denied it by England and France in violation of the treaty which caused Italy to betray its allies in the World war, and to join them. 
Close to them is the present government of Spain, which they assisted in its revolution —very much as France and Spain helped us in ours. 
Opposed to them are the British empire and the French empire—enlarged by their acquisitions from Germany, but weakened militarily and financially by the long reign of communist doctrines in their governments. 
England has been further weakened diplo­matically and militarily by the freeing of Ireland and by the sovereignization of its colonies—Canada, Australia. New Zealand, and South Africa. 
New Alignments 

In 1914 the parliament was able to declare war for all of them, but by the Act of 1921 freeing Ireland, and under the statutes of Westminster. December 11, 1931, these be­came independent commonwealths, tied to­gether by personal loyalty to the throne and by a customs union. 
It is certain that Canada, Australia and 

New Zealand entertain the heartiest loyalty 
to the empire, will render any reasonable as­
sistance to the mother country, and enter 
any reasonable war—^but to what extent is 
uncertain. None of them maintains military 
or naval establishments of any consequence. 
The attitude of South Africa is doubtful. 

Ireland will be governed by self-interest. 
The attitude of Portugal, in face of Fascist Spain, also is uncertain. 
Of the other states of Europe, the Balkan countries, Jugoslavia. Greece, Bulgaria. Rou­mania, and Hungary—all ruled by dictator­ships (Roumania and Bulgaria dictatorships of kings: Jugoslavia and Greece dictatorships in the names of kings; Hungary by the first dictator to appear on the European scene— Admiral Horthy)—are quite unpredictable, as are the states of Uthuania. Latvia, and Esto­nia, also primitive in political development. 

Poland, cherishing resentment that Czecho­slovakia sympathized with the bolshevists in the Russian-Polish war, shored in the dismem­berment of Czechoslovakia, and now faces a hostile Germany along two long boundaries. 
Denmark. Norway. Sweden and finland are self-governing countries, high in culture and political development. None of them is strong enough separately to be of consequence. Ordi­nary statesmanship would indicate that the four Scandanavian nations should unite in a single government, but historical antago­nism and the interests of the presiding dy­nasties stand In the way, and leave their peoples economically, diplomatically, and mil­itarily helpless. 
War at Our Expense 

Holfand and Belgium would have been small enough even had they not separated a hun­dred years ago. Belgium has often been the battleground of Europe and probably •will be again, however the war starts. 
The condition of Holland is still more pre­carious. Not only has it the German empire on one side and the British empire on the other, but Its colonies are objects of cupidity to larger powers, and especially to Japan, which wants the oil of Borneo for Its fleet, airplanes, and tanks. 
Switzerland, so long gallantly independent. is being subjected to Nazi propaganda—with what effect, I do not know. 
The human monster, Stalin, is being wooed by both alliances. He is entirely nnpredict­able, as he Is criminally Insane. At that, he plays an important part not only In the for­eign affairs of all European countries but in their internal politics, and in our own. 
The present friction in Europe, as we know, is over the German city of Danzig—whether it should remain under Poland for economic reasons or be rejoined to Germany for racial ones. 
The instability of Europe is caused by the fact that the economic boundaries and the racial boundaries do not coincide. Racial states w'ere and are economically unsound. Economic states are racially unstable. 
Europe has not long been able to remain at peace under, any of the forms of govern­ment which have been devised, nor In any of the stages of Intellectual and economic progress. 
The union of the American states—always heralded as the greatest achievement of states­manship — was comparatively simple through the similarity of race and history. A like accomplishment In Europe, with its variety of races. languages, and religious beliefs, seems beyond human power. 
OhWously It. cannot be helped by the inter­position of an outside nation like our own, with interests of our own. with a civilization of our own, and. for the most part, an igno­rance of and indifference to European affairs. The most that could be accomplished is what was accomplished twenty years ago—the use of our power to strengthen one side of s quarrel—at our expense. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus October. 1939 
« « «
ALUMNI CLUBS 
BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) 
William R. Descnbcrir, '31. Buchanan Bank 
Bid?.. Buchanan, Mich.. President; Alaurice 
A. Weber, ex. '23. Peoples State Bank Bids:.. St, Joseph, Sndi., Secrctar?-, 
The Berrien County club enjoyed a remark­ably quiet summer according to Secretary Maurice AVeber. The same legal gentleman, after a "prolonKed session" (place not speci­fied) with President Descnbcrg, also a legal gentleman, promises <«nsational activity prac­tically at once. 
CHICAGO James T. Igoe, *32, 32S S. JcfTerson. Pres­ident; John F. Clark. '3», 4738 Washincton Blvd.. Secretary. 
Now that the summer has ended, the club can look back at many successful affairs held durinj^ the warm days. Since the last issue of the ALUMNUS the second of a series of monthly smokers was held at the Slorrison Hotel.- The attendance at the meeting was even greater than that at the first and, from all indications, the third of the series, which win be held at Morrison Hotel on October 3. will surpass its two predecessors. President Icoe has appointed Wally O'Brien as chair­man, along with Tom Flynn, Bill Lewis, Ed­
ward Fanning. Frank Patka, John Clifford, Tony Dunning, Bill Ashendcn, Dick Oelcrich and Alnce Ca^-anaugh to act as committeemen. 
Among the outstanding afTairs held during the summer was the Golf Tournament, July 
26. at Bunker Hill. Thanks to Ed Mclchionc, Bill Sleinkcmpcr. John Dorgan and Fran Oelerich the tournament surpassed all of its predecessors in attendance and prizes. The success of the tournament was reflected on the summer dance held the following month at the Edgewater Beach Hotel, under the chairmanship of Bill Drcnnan whose very fine job resulted in the attendance of 23S members and a highly complimentary letter from the hotel to the University regarding the manner in which the dance was conducted. Speaking of dances, here is a little advance .news and a date for your calendar. The formal fall dance, sponsored by the club, will be held on November 4. the night of the Army game. President Igoe has appointed Marty Bums and. Chick Maloncy to act as co-chairmen on this occasion. 
With all due respects to past presidents and 
particularly Ed Gould, the officers of the club 
feel that this has been the biggest year for 
dues paid members—and it is still coming in. 
If you still have the urge to lake out your 
"card." direct your remittance to the secre­
tary at the above address. We describe our 
past affairs to increase our attendance in the 
future. The club's following and supiwrters 
have constantly been with us in the past and 
w-ill liQ in the future but in greater numbers. 
John F. Clark. 
CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-III.) 
Ambrose McGinnis. '24. 422 South "E " St . 
CroH-n Point. Ind., President; Fred J. Sol-
man, Jr» '28, 5752 Erie Ave.. Hammond, 
Ind.. Secretary-. 
The Notre Dame Club of the Calumet Dis­trict held its annual Golf Outing at Lake Hills Country Club on July 23 and a record crowd turned out. Francis Meyers took first 

TAe 7939-7940 >l7uinnf Board 
Prof. William L. Benitz, '11, Notre Dame, Ind. honorary President Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, Qiicago, III. [president Henty C. Wurzer, '25, Davenport^ Iowa First Vice-President Keene Fitzpatrick, *13, San Francisco, GJif. ^Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Lid. — Secretary-Treasu rer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind Assistant Secretary Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newat^ N. J. Director to 1940 Frands H. McKeever, '03, Chicago, III. Director to 1941 
Edward F. OToole, '25, Chicago, 111 ^ Director to 1942 John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich. Director to 1943 Ambrose A. O'Connell, '07, Washington, D.C. ^x-Officio Director to 1940 
prize for his skill in negotiating the tough course and was closely followed by John Wallace Dinner and cards were enjoyed in the evening. 
William Travis was the guest si)eaker of the local Edison Garden Club at its September meeting and talked of "Spring Bulbs and Their Importance in Our Gardens." 
John J. Wallace took office September 20, as judge of the Calumet City Court. Calumet City, Illinois, and w-ill also sit as special judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County (Chicago) as a result of his successful efforts in the June elections. 
Fred Solman. 
CLEVELAND 
John J. Collins, '32. 1090 Union Commerce 
Bldg., President; Richard P. Prezcbel, '35, 
800 Bulklcy Bldg.. Secretary. 
With autumn closing in fast the Navy game and its various functions are beginning to grab the spotlight. All of the Cleveland alumni and their friends are looking forwanl to the big week-end with much anticipation. The ticket sale seems to be going great . . . at least my phone is buzzing constantly with requests for "two on the fifty." etc. 
Jack Collins, our barrister president, has chosen Stan Cofall for the very tough job of week-end chairman, and €ver>'one agrees that the choice couldn't have been wiser. Dr. Mike Crawford is dance chairman, Karl Marter­sfcck and Clayt Lcroux are co-chairmen of the dinner, and John Murphy heads the reception committee. The latter. I understand, has made a great start on a difficult job, and already has the- promised attendance of many promi­nent Cievclanders at the various functions. Oh yes, while I*m still on the subject of the Navy week-end, Al Sommcr. demon account-executive for McCann-Erickson. is the man be­hind the propaganda. 
Clayt Leroux. who has charge of the Cleve­land branch of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau, is doing a fine job, and already has at his finger tips the names and qualifications of a number of recent grads seeking jobs. If any employer in the Cleveland area happens to read this letter and needs a young man in his factory or business, Clayt should be con­tacted immediately. 
Dick Kelly, student prexy of the Cleveland Club at Notre Dame, and his henchman. Bob Grisanti, ran a fine student dance at ^ake r Tavern on the first of September. Despite hot weather and the Labor Day week-end a goodly number of alumni showed up. Among them I saw Tom Byrne, Karl Martcrsteck, Tom Ryan. John Matousck. Bob Hackman, Harry Fox, Hash Ball, Charlie Macaluso, Frank Andrews, Jerry Miller and Stan Lechowicz. 
Personality Palaver : —Dr. Mike Crawford and Dick Jcnney have joined the ranks of the Benedicts. The latter was married in Buffalo to Madlyn O'Neill . . . Jim Bourke has a fine new job with General Electric as publicity man for Phil Spitalny's "Hour of Charm," He formerly was secretary of the "Come to Cleveland" Committee .. . Ed Gannon will marry Rita Marj- Hurd on September 30 here. 
Dick Prezcbel. 
DENVER ~ James P. Logan, '18. Logan Moving & Storage Co., 37th & Marion Sts.. President; Charles F. Cassidy, '38, 1249 Fillmore St.. Secretary. 
1. Tim Mo3'nihan, former star center from 
N. D.. has been made assistant coach at Den­ver University. To honor Tim, the local club has resen-ed a section of seats for his first game, which will be preceded by an affair of some sort in "Hm's honor. 
2.
 The local club, in keeping with its prac­tice of the last several years, is sending a special train to South Bend for the N.D.­Southern Cal game. Bart O'Hara is chairman of the committee in charge. Most of the tickets are gone at the present time. 

3.
 Charles Cassidy, '38, is, as this is written, on his way home from a summer in Europe, just in the nick of time. 

4.
 The club's annual summer dance was a success in every way, especially financially, much to the satisfaction of Chairman Johnny Humphreys. 


Thomas 3L Ticrncy. 
DETROIT Howard F. Beechlnor, ex. '06, 1300 Union Gnardian Bldg.. President; Malcolm F. Knans. '26. 423 Curtis Bldg., Sccrctao'< 
Our September meeting took place at the Sky Room of the Fort Shelby Hotel. We had a fine buffet supper and a nice meeting but, unfortunately, only about 40 attended. 
Judge Joseph Sanford, of Muskegon, was a special guest because he was in Detroit ser\'ing temporarily at Circuit Court. Frank Nolan 

October. 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
anil Frank Potts of University of Detroit were also >n:ests. Frank P. Nestcr, who is Tom's uncle, was at the meeting: for the first time that I can remember. We had thought that some of the new 1939 graduates would be out but Jim McKcnna was, I believe, the only one. 
Some of the others who attendetl the meet­ing were the officers. Howard Becchinor, Frank McGinnis, Dr. Neil Whalen and your secretary, the ever-faithful Van Wallace, and his father and our loyal supporter, I*arr>-Gemon. Don Currier. Gcorec Hanlon, Phil Fctz, Charles Lcnnanc, Tcrr>' Gasen, Marcc Verbicst and. later in the evening. Jack Hic-Kins made an appearance. Several of the old standbys were Jack Brcen» Ed Moriarty, Ted Fcldman, Henry Clark, Jim Forcn and Joe Schragc. 
Some of those appearing more frequently in recent months arc Vincc Stacc, Ed Crowe, Lowell Comcrford, Jim Walker, Louis Chaus­sce. Dcon Sutton and Ted Trcfzcr. Another new face was Howard W. Taylor, otherwise known as "Bill." I believe this covers aU of the old nlumni who were there. 
Our summer was a very busy one, the prin­cipal activity being the Van Wallace Boxing Show, which was a distinct success from the (Standpoint of making all arrangements which were within our power, although, as you have probably heard. Van was finally stopped at the boat by the State Department who would not permit him to sail for Lourdes. 
The principal activity under discussion at 
our meeting this week was the boat-trip to 
Cleveland for the Navy game, October 21. 
We have chartered a boat and have made 
arrangements for 400, and I am sure that 
Cleveland, on October 21, will realize that 
there is a place called Detroit not far north. 
Malcolm F. Knaus. 
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA 
Donald L. Norton, '30, 129 Sanford Place. President; A. B. Casey. 1153 W. 9th St., Secretary. 
Monday. June 19. the Erie Notre Dame Club had a dinner meeting at which time officers were elected for the coming year—Don Nor­ton, president, and A. B. Casey, secretary and treasurer; retiring Larr>- Danbom as presi­dent, and Leo Bniggcr as secretary and treas­urer. The newly elected president took charge of the meeting immediately after the election and completed his first business in forming committees for this year's summer picnic. 
Several members of the recently formed 
campus club, "The Erie Club of Notre Dame," 
were guests at the dinner and gained the 
support of the alumni club for a dance to be 
held July 14 at the Erie Tennis and Coun­
try Club. 
Leo J. Brugger. 
The club's picnic was at Leo Carney's cot­tage, Woodmeer-on-the-Lake on Sunday. July 
30. Invited were present Notre Dame students. as v.-ell as prospective students. All reports indicate that a phenomenally good time was had by all. 
Andy Pilncy, '.^6, hero of the storietl Ohio State-N. D. game in *35, joined the Erie Sailors, professional baseball team. in. mid­summer. On September 7 he took over the local newspaper column of the vacationing Jay James for an interesting and well-done account of the Pilney life to date, with all the emphasis, of course, on the Notre Dame angles.­
INDIANAPOLIS 
J. Albert Smith. *34. 2218 N. Meridian St.; President; Elbert W. Mahoney. '26, 3936 Central Ave., Sccrctarj-. 
Summer activities of the Indianapolis club included a golf tournament at the Indianapolis Country Club in June and a joint dance with the student club of the University. August 
25. at the Wootlstock Club. Both were highly successful. 
About 60 played golf and 150 attended the dinner at which prizes were a\%'arded, includ­ing a large silver trophy cup given to the club by Peter C. RciUy, lay trustee of the University and recipient of an honorary de­gree. Alumni pretty much gave way to the students w-hen the awards were made however. 
More than 150 couples attended the dance which was arrange<l by our social committee: Charles Mason. Tom Ruckelshaus, Clyde Bow­ers, Tom Umphrey, Bob Kirby, Bill O'Connor. Bill Kreig. Joe Sexton. Tom Mahaffey, Jack Slattery, Henry Frohmcyer and Bob Moy­nahan. 
Our regular Monday noon luncheons will start I'giiin next month, at which time I'll get you more news. That's about all now. except that Frank McCarthj- tells me he is going to Mexico Sunday—perhaps to look for the Bremen. 
E. W. Mahoney. 
KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) John J. O'Connor, '34. 4133 Mctcier St.. Kansas City. Mo.. President; Norman M. Bowes. '33. 3525 Rockhill Road. Kansas City. Mo.. Secretarj*. 
The Kansas City club is facing the 1939­1940 year with renewed confidence and inter­est. Plans for at least one football trip are being formulated. Graduates of the *39 class include Vincent DcCourscy, Thomas M. Rear-don, and Albert J. Schmitz. 
A note from Doug Giorgio. *33. the former Long Island lifeguard, indicates that he is now with the U. S. Public Health Service at Lewis-burg, Pennsylvania, There is also a suspicion in these (juartcrs that Doug is a bene<lict, but details are lacking. 
John McGrath, the Sedalia Shotgun. *35. has forsaken the outboard motors for motorcycles . by way of recreation: but no severe injuries are reported as yet. He asked about his old friend Bill Glasicr. Jack Zerbst. '38. left this summer for Sumatra where he will represent an American truck firm. His sailing was well ahead of the outbreak of war. 
Dick Tobin and Bob Pcndcrgast have been scurrj'ing about seeking relief from hay fever. At the last report l>oth were heading for Colo­rado. Jcrr>- Davis. "35. has departed to return to his native Iowa where the 100-degree tem­peratures are softened by September's advent. 
John Gctse and Norb Schwartz, of Salina. are still defending the bachelor's outposts on the Kansas plains. John Dugan. the Tylers, Frank and Bob, and Fred Mancuso, among others, took in the June Commencement w*eek. and reported John Whitman as pert as ever. 
Several of the local alumni, including Bar­
ney Quirk and Joe Waller, have enlisted in 
the drive of the local diocese to stimulate 
Catholic Action. The prelate of this diocese. 
Bishop Edwin V. O'Hara, formerly of Great 
Falls. Montana, is well known to Notre Dame 
men. He received an LL.D. from the Uni­
versity in 1917 and taught on the campus in 
the summer sessions of 1929 and 1930. He 
was teaching at Notre Dame when he re­
ceived the news of his appointment as bishop 
of Great Falls. 
Norman M. Bowes. 
MEMPHIS 
Galvin Hudson, *13, Parkview Hotel. Presi­
dent; Bailey WaUh, ex. *27. Columbian 
Mutual Tower, Secretary. 
We held the annual summer picnic at Harbin's picnic grounds near Memphis on July 15. Wc had about 40 members out of our club present. It was an enthusiastic meeting of all the alumni, and the present students of Notre Dame. Good barbecues, com on the cob, and cold beer were served. We had a horseshoe pitching contest and a softball game between the alumni and students. The alum­ni were triumphant by the score of 10 to 2. 

Galvin Hudson, president of our club, sug­gested that the boys take time out from the liveliness of the occasion and give some seri­out attention to some of the problems of our club, and of Notre Dame in general. The first matter to be discussed by Mr. Hudson was the matter of our club's making some contribution to Van Wallace. Our club exceeded its quota in the way of contribution. 
Our initial plans were made.for our annual trip back to Notre Dame for one of the foot-hall games this fall. We have tentatively selected the Southern California game, and Charles M. Br>-an, one of the members of our club, has accepted the chairmanship on ar­rangements for the trip. Tentative plans are about as follows: We will have a special train hearing members of our club, wives, sweet­hearts and friends: also, we will be honored with the presence on the trip of our governor, the Honorable Prentice Cooper, of Tennessee. Our club always looks forward to this trip. and in view of the fact that we believe Notre Dame will have its revenge in a victory over Southern California this year, we expect to find much additional pleasure in the trip. 
Bailey Walsh. 
MILWAUKEE 
John J, Burke. '33. 110 E. Wisconsin Ave.. President; John E. Clauder. '34, 1219 W. Vhet St., Secretary. 
Our ex-president. James Corrigan, has left our midst for St. Louis where he is joining the Jesuit Order. Knowing Jim as we all do. we are sure he vriU some day be high in the Order. 
Charles (Bud) McNichok is, as this is writ­ten, in Milwaukee on business. He will be here for a few days, so we should get in a good visit. Haven't seen him since his wed­ding. May 5, in Spartanshurg, South Carolina. Bud is now working for Hyman-Michaels Co. in Chicago, and has Wisconsin for part of his territory. 
Our old friend. George Shields, finally got around to stopping off in Milwaukee quite a bit this summer. George is workinp for Keeler Brass Co. and has most of the middle west as his territory. 
Jack JaCRcr, now in Pittsburgh for Hole­proof Hosiery, stopped in for a few days on his way up North for a vacation. 
A. J. (Bert) Maloney and his wife had a trip in the East. 
John Brust is still in LaCrosse. \Vi5consin, working on a large construction iob. 
Brother Venard. C.S.C., who is In charge 
of St. Charles Boys' Home here in Milwaukee, 
has been doing a great job this past summer. 
The institution is rather small for the' number 
of boys they have in charge, so a Men's Club 
has been formed, the purpose of which, is to 
obtain larger quarters. Thej' have over 
3,000 members now and are still going strong. 
We are all working towards having a Boys* 
Town here in Milwaukee. 
John E. Clauder. 
NEW JERSEY 
Daniel J. O'Neill. '26. 184 N. Walnut St.. East Orange, President; Harvey P. Rock­well. '34, 1202 Essex House, 1048 Broad St . Newark. Sccretmry. 
Since this is our first meeting through the pages of the ALUMNUS, please permit us to 

The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1939 
introduce this year's ofliccrs to those \vho ma>' not already knon* them. 
Our president, Dan O'Kcill, '26, a rising, young executive wt h the Public Service Com­pany of K. J., needs little introduction to the older men of the alumni. His active coopera­tion with the club during his alumni years is certainly indicative of an excellent year for the New Jersey sroup. 
John Ncnbaucr* '34. our vice-president, promises to furnish the comed>* relief to any meetincs that may take on a serious aspect during the year. 
Tom Trcaccy, '35, our new treasurer, as­sures us that it is going to be just as difficult to get money out of him as it is to get the change out of a stop and go signal. 
Past Acti\itics Tlie Jersey Club has just closed one of its most active seasons and appreciates the ex­cellent direction of its past oiTicers as well as the outstanding cooperation of the club. One of the foremost activities of the past year was the "Day at the Shore," held at West End. New Jersey, on June IS. Chairman Harry Gratton worked diligently to make this a mem­orable event. The club was anxious to have the Old Timers out to more of the meetings and planned this activity to appeal to every member of the Jersey Club. The 375 people who were present are evidence that the effort was well worthwhile. 
The prospective freshmen were given a Welcome Meeting on the evening of Septem­ber 6 by nearly 100 alumni and students. Each of the 38 freshmen was individually in­troduced and assured that Notre Dame looks forward to preparing them for his chosen vo­cation and a future pleasant association with the alumni. Movies of the campus were shown to give the boys some landmarks to seek on their arrival in South Bend. 
The Press Relations Committee has been extremely active in New York in its effort to remove some of the salacious magarines and pamphlets from the news-stands, and the Jersey Club's representative, Ray Gcigcr, has given a great deal of his time in cooperating with this movement. We are quite sure that this effort cannot help but reflect on the Jersey Club. 
The "Hard 'Hmes Dance" takes the spotlight at the moment, with plans for an opportunity to get one more pleasant evening out of those old clothes we planned to discard last spring. As a matter of fact. Chairman Frank McDcr­mott has been working so hard that he has worn out his good clothes. 
On the same evening, the tickets to the Army Game will be distributed at the witch­ing hour, and all the members are working hard to bring the club closer to its goal—a Student Scholarship Fund. 
The club was certainly sorry to learn of the death of Toby Kramer's father. We know that you join with us in offering your sym­pathies. 
Did You Know? ... That two of our own members, J- D. Sulli­van and Tom Trcacey joined the elect (our sympathy to their wives). That George Wenz, Jr., has been teaching his father to walk at night (the floor, we mean). That Notre Dame Day at the New York World's Fair was a gala occasion, despite the fact that the rain tried to dampen the Notre Dame spirit. We certainly did enjoy seeing Elmer Layden, Art Haley, Bill Dooley and several of the other boys from the campus. 
Dan Halpin, president of the Ncio York City 

That business has taken Jack Geddcs, our jovial friend of a few months to Columbus, Ohio. Good luck. Jack, in your new territory and your forthcoming marriage. 
That Bill Dooley of the Alumni Office at Notre Dame paid us a \-iMt the day after N.D. Day at the Fair and asked to be remem­bered to all he was unable to greet person­ally. 
That Bay Gcigcr. the very able editor of the club's quarterly "The New Jersey Echo," did a verj" masterful job in displaying the Notre Dame wares before the Knights of Columbus in Dover, New Jersey. 
That Joe Sullt^-an, '36, literally dropped in from the skj- and expects to be located in Newark with United Airlines for an indefinite period. 
That we are certainly glad to have Ray Boicc, now Iof:ated in Morristown, with us. Coming from Long Island, we understand that he will now be in Jersey and we are sure he will find a wholehearted welcome from the Jersey Club. 
That the Oulctte Brothers are now in Jer­sey City and are planning to be with us at each meeting this year. 
H. P. Rockwell. Jr. 

NEW YORK CITY 
Danipl D. Halpin, '31. 420 Riverside Dr.. President; Robert A- Hamilton, '28, 63 Wall St., Secretary. 
Future (via Secretary Hamilton) : 

1. Notre Dame-Army game Rally and Re­union at Manhattan Center, next door to Hotel New Yorker on 34th Street, Friday eve­ning. November 3. Early reser\*ations (through Bob Hamilton. G3 Wall Street) will get the choice tables. Dick Donoghue, chairman. 
So large was the attendance at last year's super successful Rally (ask anybody who was there!) that the club was forced this year to seek larger space. Alanhattan Center will hold 3,000 comfortably and is air-conditioned. 
2. The Army-Notre Dame Ball, under the auspices of Our Lady Chapel at West Pbint. will again be held in the Hotel Astor on Sat­urday night, November 4, amidst the splendors of formal military dress, top flight music and gorgeous decorations. All Notre Dame men may make rcser\*ations through Bob Hamilton, as above, or through Father George Murdock. Catholic chaplain at West Point. 
3. Ed Cunningham and his "radiycomcn" are about to put the "History of Notre Dame" on the air over AV\VRL, New York City, for six weeks. 
"To the best of our knowledge." reports Broker Hamilton, this is the first time a nar­rative history of N. D. has ever been at­tempted—and the first time an alumni group has written and put on such a program." 
Past (also via Sec Hamilton): 

1.
 Direct quote: "Approximately 500 people jammed the Sports Palace on N. I). Fair Day [on July 27]. Had to be held indoors on ac­count of inclement weather, which didn't dampen ardor of alumni. They listened to Elmer Laydcn. Senator Dunnigan. Christy Walsh, etc Bill Dooley and Art Haley were on the platform, too. Joe Byrne and Walter O'Kccfe encountered a *detour*—we saw them later at the dinner in Merrie England—all shillelahs were checked outside and no LR.A. bombings took place. About 200 were at the dinner." 

2.
 TTie club Retreat ^vas again to be held at the Bishop Malloy Retreat House in Jamaica. Long Island, on September 15, 16 and 17. Bill Daunt was again the able and enthusiastic chairman and all forecasts said, "Bigger and Better." Forty-seven attended last year and the prospect was that twice that number would attend this year. 

3.
 Dave Van Wallace and his parents were the special guests at the annual "Freshman Send-Off" in the Centre Club on September 5. Doug Bangcrt. '40, president of the campus club, presided. Father John Lynch, C.S.C., representing the University, was present. Movies of the campus were shown. Van and his family were, because of the war, deprived of the privilege of going to Lourdcs, in accord­ance with cherished plans. The Retreat was dedicated to Van's welfare, however. 

4.
 Joseph Traccy, 17-ycar-old graduate of Mt. Michael's School, the Bronx, was in July awarded the club's four-year tuition scholar­ship to Notre Dame. Judges for the scholar­ship competition were Daniel P. Higgins, pres­ident of the CYO and member of the Board of Education: Major Edward Bowes. Judge William A. Walsh of Yonkers, Edward A. Killcan. Brooklyn, and George MacDonald. 


Club, felicitates Joseph II. Tracy, who icon the 
club*8 1959 full tuition scholarship to the University. The photo shoics Halpin, Tracy and the judges: left to right, Daniel P. Higgins, president of the New York group of the Catholic Youth Organization and member of the city's Board of Education; Halpin; Major Boiccs, radio impresario; Judge WiUiam A. Walsh of Yonkers; Edicard'A. KUlcan, of Brooklyn, and Tracy. George Mae-Donald, vtUity magnate and papal marquis, another judge, left before the photograph ivas taken. 
October. 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
NEW ORLEANS 
Charles de la Verfcnc, '23. 1013 Maritime Bldff., President; Austin Boyle, *31, 621 Bourbon St.. Secretary. 

Summer cut a wide swath through the bachelor ranks of the New Orleans club, with at least five weddinEs recorded by the secre­tary. 
Harold "Minnie" Sporl married Miss Cath­erine VastcrlinK, and his cousin. Edward Sporl. was wedded to Miss Marie Favret, F« Joseph "Huey" DroIIa married Miss Genevieve Clark of Mobile. Emil Telfcl. the sage of '31, exchanpred vows with Miss Helen Christian­sen of Menominee, Mich., and J. A. Mc Car­thj-. another '31 member, married Miss Mar­garet Burke. The vital statistics were en­hanced by the birth o£ a daughter, Paulettc, to Mr. and Mrs. Jules de la Vcrgne in Sep­tember. 
Cyp Sporl and his brother, Harold, report they have been rushed with quickening activ­ity in w*ar risk business at their marine in­surance office, and P. E. "Pat" Burke, *88, our honorary president, remains active in his insurance agency* arid club affairs. Drolla, the demon insurance salesman, resumed ped­dling policies for New York Life after a September honeymoon, and McCarthy returned from his to continue selling men's clothing. 
Professor TelfeU he of the scathing "Scho­lastic" editorials, is going over student copy with a huge blue pencil as professor of Eng­lish and head of the journalism department at Loyola University of the South. The Notre Dnme influence is projected also by Larry MuUins. in his second season as head coach at Loyola, and Dick Pfcfferle. Larry and Dick say the boys are ready to go this fall, and look for a successful campaign. Dick, married several months ago to Miss Anne Steinkcmper of Chicago, sister of an­other Notre Dame football great, superintends line play for "Moon." 
President Charles de la Vcrgne. scheming winter activities for the club at his law office, reports a recent visit from Frank Howland. *25, of the Memphis club. 
Franklyn C Hochrcitcr. secretary of the *35 class, a recent addition to our ranks, is doing social welfare work here. Fabian Johnston, and Jim and Lionel Favret are active in engineering, Al Vittcr remains with the state conservation department, and Ed­ward Schwartz, father of "Marchy," still holds to his record of never missing a club meeting. 
Austin Boyle. 

PEORIA 
John Sloan. Jr., *33. 233 N. Underhill St., 
President; Robert E. Ward, *34, 1 Yankee 
Street Road, ChilHcothc. 111., Secretary. 

Since our last report from Peoria, an elec­tion of officers 'was held, and the annual Peoria Notre Dame picnic took place. 
New officers elected at the last meeting are as follows: John Sloan, president; Dick Dc­laney, vice-president; Bob Ward, secretary-treasurer. 
Bill Mottsctt, retiring president, was com­mended by the club for his work of the past year, during which time two new annual en­deavors were begun: the Mothers' Day Com­munion Mass and breakfast, and the estab­lishment of a scholarship fund. Both projects were successful in their first year and are to be carried on. 
Our picnic was held as nsiial at Dr. C. V. Ward's farm, on June 18. Chairman AI Welzenbach and his aides, Vincc Rickey and Joe Langton, provided fun and food for a group of Notre Dame men and their friends which numbered nearly a hundred. 
Dick Dclaney left Peoria since -the last meeting and the post of political obscurity, from which Sloan rose to the presidency, is now unfilled. 
Plans for the year will be forthcoming at the Septemt>er meeting. Bob Ward. 
RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. 
John McKieman, '34, 1231 Industrial Trust 
Bldg., Providence, R. I., President; Charles 
Grimes. '20, 47 Nelson St, Providence. R. !., 
Secretary. 

Boats, trains, autos and even a few planes will carry the 2,000 Rhode Islanders plan­ning to make the Army game trip November 
4. Leo R. McAloon and John S. McKieman are in charge of ticket, excursion and hotel arrangements. 
Miss Anna Swift was elected president of the Notre Dame Guild at its last summer meeting, succeeding Miss Mary R. Grimes. Fall and winter plans for the Guild include the Army game trip, a series of lectures, the annual fashion show and bridge and the an­nual Communion breakfast. Each year the Guild contributes a scholarship to Notre Dame for a student from Rhode Island or South­eastern Massachusetts. 
John A. Mclntj-rc, who left early in Sep­tember for varsity practice, was guest of alumni and friends at a party arranged by John J. McLaughlin at his Cumberland Hill country place. 
Charlie Grimes. 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
William F. Bembrock. '33. "IS S. 8th St., 
President: William M. White, '21, 621 S. 
7th St., Secretary. 
June 21, 1939. 

Harold Stone returned to St. John's Hospital for further treatment. A few weeks ago he had an appendectomy. 
A dinner w*as held for the members of the club Thursday evening, June 15, at the Wagon Wheel. New Salem State Park. Walt Bernard and John Carroll were in charge of the ar­rangements. Joe Hcnncbry attended. Joe has recently come to Springfield as an employee of the Chicago Motor Club. 
Richard T. Neeson was recently appointed organist at the Immaculate Conception Cathe­dral, Springfield. 
Harry F, Kelly, secretary of state in Mich­

igan, gave a splendid address at the Ottawa 
High School graduation exercises. Harry is 
a graduate of the high school, and after the 
program the School Board gave a reception 
in his honor. He received a sincere and 
hearty welcome from the Ottawa residents. 
William M. White. 
September II. 1939. 

The following are names of some of the new men {N.D.) who have come to Spring­field: Joseph Aimone Pedmcci, Joe Poore. (works for the State Highway), Joe Henne­bry, (works for the CHiicagD Motor Club), Richard Neeson, John Brennan (works in a tire shop), James Cahill, Mike Besso (Spring­field City Hall), Thomas Gordon Lawler. 
The Notre Dame Club of Springfield is well along with its plans for a barbecue to be held on Thursday. September 21, at Lake Spring­field. Members and their wives and sweet­hearts are invited. This event is looked for­ward to with much anticipation. 
Walter Bernard and myself both work under Joe Golobowski (another Notre Dame man) in the Division of Parks. Walt has a very fine job, handling all the mechanical, heating and electrical work for the Design Office of the division. Joe is head of the Design Office. 
WUliara F. Bembrock. 

ST. LOUIS 
Gene E. Strong, ex. '34, 7527 WestmorcUnd St., Clayton. Mo., President; Albert J. Ravarino, *35. 4651 Shaw St., SecreUry. 

According to advance notices, the club was to have an active and interesting summer. A golf party and dinner, along with tennis, swimming and dancing as side attractions, was scheduled for June 28. Notre Dame Night at the Municipal Opera vras arranged for July 12, and the annual picnic at John Corley's farm, for July 16. Notre Dame Night on the Mississippi, on the S.S. President, was advertised for August 18. 
The golf fiesta was to be in charge of Dr. Bert Coughlin. VInce Fehlig, Joe Switzer, Bill O'Connor, Fran Kennedy, Larry Cotter and Bob Hellning. Al Ravarino and Dick Snooks seem to have been the men behind the boat ride. 
Vice-president Gene Strong is the acting president of the club now that President Bill Leahy has been promoted by the Pet Milk Company and sent to its Chicago office. Gene says that the club is planning excursions to both the Northwestern and the Southern Cal games. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Frank 3liles. ex. '22. 1405 E. McKinley, South Bend. President: Clarence Harding. *25, Sooth Bend Tribane, South Bend, Sec­retary. 

Plans for our pre-game footliall smokers arc almost complete, according to an an­nouncement made recently by Frank Miles, president. All smokers will be held in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel. There will be a smoker on Friday night preceding each home football game. 
Smoker programs have attracted some of the best talent in the country. Nationally known newspaper writers and football coaches, in South Bend to attend the game the follow­ing day, appear and give their views. As many as a dozen famous newspaper writers and football authorities often appear on a single program. 
James Boland and Leo Hoffman will act as co-chairmen for the Purdue Smoker on Fri­day evening. September 29; Loo Hickey and Ed Kreimer will have charge of the Georgia Tech Smoker on October 6; Joe Nyikos and Robert Holmes are co-chairmen of the South­ern Methodist Smoker Friday evening. October 
13. Co-chairmen for the Northwestern Smoker. Friday. November 17. and the Southern Cali­fornia Smoker. Friday. November 24. will be announced later. 
Members of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley who hold a paid-up dues card will be admitted free to the Purdue Smoker. 
All alumni and visitors are cordially invited to attend any or all smokers. Remember, they'll be held in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel. 
Clarence Hardinr. 

TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
Regis C. McNamara. '33, 22 Ratfaerford St., Binghamion, President: James H. Hogan, '34, 62 Maty St., Binghamton. Secretary. 

The Notre Dame IVipIe CHties Club has great prospects' of being one of the most active of the Notre Dame local clubs. That President Rests McNamara, '32, has deter­mined to accomplish great things this year was shown by the well-planned summer out­
The Notre Dame Alumnus October. 1939 
ing which was held at State Park in June. Softball featured the acti\-ities and a cold ham dinner was ser\-ed in the afternoon. Don Kennedy. '23. is still wondering what hai>­pencd to the ham. 
Dr. Ted Gabrcski, '34, was in BinKhamton this summer to visit Jim Hoean and Bill YeaKcr. Manj- men of the class of '34 will be Blad to hear that Ted has besun practice in his home town. His ofTicc is in Boom 304, Oil City National Bank Buildint;, Oil City, Pennsylvania. Ted is going to give us a big surprise about next June, but more about that later. 
John Donnelly, '34, was among the Catholic men of this vicinity who made the Catholic Laymen's Retreat which was held at Oquaga Lake. 
Bob Su!U%-an, a senior at Notre Dame, toured Europe this summer -with his mother and father. The trip was arranged primarily to visit Leo Sullivan, a brother of Bob, who is in the Holy Cross Order and is stationed at the motherhouse in France. 
Jim Hogan, '34. has been made outside sen­tinel in the Binghamton Council of the Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus. 
Pat Quirk, '32, of Cortland, married Miss Margaret Toomey of Binghamton early this summer. The newlyweds are living in Cort­land where F^t is employed by the Brock-way Motor Corporation. 
Regis McNamara is going to take the final step in the near future. 
Joe Kane, '28. a teacher of the Social Stud­ies in the Binghamton School System, has just returned from a tour of Europe. 
Jim Hogan. 
TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) Joseph R. Schrocdcr. *31. G04 Builders Ex­change Bldg., Minneapolis, President; Gerald 
E. McKay, '30, 3430 Dupont Ave., S., Minneapolis. Secretary. 
The Twin City Club held its fifth annual Golf Tournament on July 25. "We had a swell turn-out, the largest since the affair was started, some 60 attending. Walter Hacen, Jr.,-graciously consented to go out for the day and he participated in a foursome which turned in a mighty fine score. We saw a lot of old faces heretofore unseen at the tourna­ment. Frank Butorac, '28, Danny CouRhlin. *22. Jack Kccfe. '31, George Kchoc, '3G, and several ethers. Activities -wound up with a banquet and short talks around the table. 
Present plans call for an early meeting to formulate plans for a ticket activity on a trip to one of the games this fall. 
The Notre Dame Auxiliary, composed of wives of alumni, had its first picnic, Septem­ber 13. 
The club is happy to have none other than Tommy Yarn, *30, a member of the local alumni. Tom expects to be located here for some time. 
Jen y McKay-
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
John J. Ryan, •2fi, G345 Morrowfield Ave, 
Pittsburgh, President; J. Mncent Burke, 
Jr.. G938 Edgcrton Ave.. Pittsburgh. Sec­
retary. 
, Well, here we are hack into fall again, raring to go. It has been so long since I have wTitten about our activities here that I scarcely know where to begin. 
Surprisingly, the club has been more active this summer than for many summers. The noon luncheons have been very well attended, even better than they were in some of the football seasons. Jchn Patterson and Ed Huff. who are at present undergraduates, have been to two or three luncheons, and, of course, the old guard, consisting of Jack Shcedy, Red Riordan, K. Bardzil, Dr. Leo O'Donnell, John McMahon, HuRh Gallagher, George SdiiU, John Ryan. From time to time others would appear to add to the crowd. Bob Smith, for­merly from New York, is now working in Pittsburgh, a^d has been a regular attendant at the club's functions. 
Both Fritz Wilson and Eugene Coyne were married during the past summer, and signs of domestication are beginning to appear on both of them. Friends of Smoky Coyne will be amazed at the (|uiet, retiring attitude he has assumed. 
On September 6 the club had a golf outing and dinner at the Wildwood Country Club in honor of those boys who are going out to Notre Dame as freshmen this year. The affair was ver>' well attended, there being about 50 fellows there, among whom w*as Bill Dooley from the Alumni office. Movies were shown of the various football games. The golfers apparently all had pretty good scores as they seemed quite happy coming in from the links. Smoky Coyne, who lives near the club, rode over on horseback to greet the members. Paul Hartman, who is recovering from a leg injury, was present, as were Eddie O'Brien. Turk Meincrt, AI Dicbold. Bud Boylc, John Breslin, Jack Barr and all of the once mentioned above. The O'TooIe family was well represented, with Dr. Dick and Bob. Tony Pugliese, from New York City, who was in town visiting his in-laws, was also present, renewing old acquaintances. Bill Dooley spoke and informed the club of the fact that John McMahon had been appointed head of the alumni placement here in Pittsburgh. We are all pulling together and wishing John a lot of success in his efforts. 
Plans are being made for the Carnegie Tech game here in Pittsburgh, and all the boys are hoping that the University will send the band along with the team. The game is rapidly approaching a sell-out. but the Alum­ni Club has been fortunate in securing tickets for the members. These tickets may be had by applying to Fritz Wilson. 517 Smithfield Street. Pittsburgh. 
Vince Burke. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 
Francis P. Dcnney, '32, c-o J. Wa!t»r Tliompson Co., 821 Second Ave. Seattle. President; A. Maurice Schafer. *37, 117 
K. Main St.. Montesano, Secretary. 
Tiie latter part of May, ^ve held a Golf Tournament at the Ranier Golf and Country Club in Seattle. Some 14 or 15 fellows par­ticipated in the -^ play, with Dick Meade of Seattle taking all honors. Followini; the match, we had dinner with an increase of five or six. James Phelan was able to secure some Notre Dame football pictures of last season's Karnes from Elmer aloni; with a couple other teams in your parts. They were sure interestinK and as close to N.D. games as we usually cet around here is the news reels. 
The club took a rest until the 13th of 
Auffust when the national convention of the 
Knights of Columbus opened in Seattle. 
Great attempts at a general get-together were 
made, but we finally had to resort to an 
impromptu luncheon for a few of the N.D. 
alumni who were delegates. 
So we enter the fall starting with a clean 
slate, nothing to carry over, with lots to 
begin for, our small club. Sorry I am unable 
to send you more but with this little bit we 
can at least crack the ice. By the way. Dick 
Meade got himself hitched up this summer, 
and Bud SchibeU ex. '36, finished at the Uni­
versity of "Washington. 
3Ianrice Schafer. 
LOCAL CLUB HANDBOOK 
Work on the preparation set of procedure for Local Alumni Clubs advanced during the summer. How­ever, the development of ideas de­rived from the Club Questionnaires was so challenging that hasty action was deemed inadvisable. Conse­
.quently, the meeting of a committee of Local Club officers and District Governors to consider the data has been postponed until the return in October of President Daniel E. Hil­gartner, '17, who is enjojang a fall vacation. The -\lumni Office was frankly and pleasantly surprised with the record of progress of the clubs answering the questionnaire, and the results are not only important but will undoubtedly result in a major advance in this vital phase of alumni activitv. 
WARNING! 
From May, 1939, the first payment of dues for 1939-40, through Septem­ber 15, 438 more alumni had paid dues in the Association than during the corresponding period of 1938-39. That, unfortunately, is a 25 per cent increase over last year. 
It is undoubtedly attributable to the more lenient system adopted this year, which permits any payment from $1 upward, to constitute dues paid. The system has achieved, as we hoped it would, more immediate contact with a larger number of alumni. 
But the total amount of money received from the 1,963 alumni who have paid dues to September 15 is $150 LESS than the total amount received from the 1,525 alumni from whom we had heard by September 15 last year. 
Every bill for dues sent to unpaid members costs the Association ap­proximately $300 in printing, post­age, time, etc. 
Even with the increase, the total number of alumni classified as dues paid on September 15, (three and one-half months after the fiscal year opened June 1), is still only one-fourth of the lay alumni who should pay dues. 
Consequently, if we must open the ALUMNUS year with this sad note, let this stick of type save us $300 in the cost of a bill. Look up one of those three self-addressed, postage paid envelopes we have sent you, enclose $1 or more, as much as you can afford, and send it now. The rest of this interesting magazine will positively not alter its expression while you take time out. 
If a 25 per cent in number paying yields a decreased per cent in amount received, you can see the necessity for more people paying more money, or we'll wind up the year boasting only an increase in the number of people digging our editorial grave. 

October, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
» » »


THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the fol­lowing; engagements: 
Miss Elaine C. Raster and John A. Kiener, 

•32, or Rocky River, Ohio. 
Miss Agnes GraefT and Walter E. Bernard, '36, of Springfield, Illinois. 
Miss Georgia Margaret Morrison and Mark 

P. Kcrin, '37, of Los Angeles. 
Miss Kathryn Jean Sullivan and Charles B. Jordan, '37. of Oak Park, Illinois. 

Marriages 
Miss Mildred See and Ralph W. Bergman. *20, were married. June 17. in St. Louis, Missouri. 
Miss Marie Edna Ryan and Charies M. Dougherty, *26. were married. June 24. in Philadelphia. Rev. Harry Ryan, '27. brother of the bride, performed the ceremony. 
Miss Elizabeth Forrester and Austin Hall, '26, were married, June 3, in Memphis, Ten­nessee. 
The marriage of Miss Veronica Scannell and John B. Leahy, ex. '26. took place, June 24. in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. James E. Leahy, '30, was best man. 
Miss Elizabeth Eileen Kerwin and Thomas A, McKicrnan, *27, were married, September 16, in New York City. 
Miss Mabel Colombe and William E. Riley, '27, were married. June 2S, in Rouses Point, New York. 
The marriage of Miss Anne Rouse and Rey­nolds C. Seitz, '29, took place, August 29. in Omaha, Nebraska. 
Miss Mary Ann Frash and Francis Jones, '29, were married, August 26, in Our I*ady Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Marjoric L. Breitenstein and Dr. Robert L. Braunsdorf, ex. '30. were married, September 0, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Mary ScuUin and Cornelius J. Carey, Jr., '30, were married. August 19, in Malone. New York. 
The marriage of Miss Helen Evelyn Culver and Francis F. Sweeney, '30, took place, August 24. in Port Jervis, New York. 
Miss Mary Jane Holton and Nicholas J. Bohling, Jr., *31. were married, June 24, in Orland Park, Illinois. 
Miss Ann Louise Callendcr and James G. Murphj-, '31, were married. August 24, in Middletown. Connecticut. 
Miss Dorothea Davis and Donald Coleman, '31. were married, July 30, in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Thelma Klepper and James A. Bosca, '32. took place, August 26. in Lawrenceburg, Indiana. 

Miss Margaret A. Smith and Dr. Myron E. Crawford, '32, were married, July S, in Cleve­land. 
Miss Marie Dorothy Williams and John A. Jordan, '32, wore married, .July 8, in New-York City. 
The marriage of Miss Barbara O. Reinhard and Francis M. Marley, *32, took place. August 30, in Delaware, Ohio. Rev. William C. 
•O'Brien. '06, was the celebrant of the Mass. Among the attendants were Harold V. Mar­ley. '37. and Gerald Sheibly, '28. 
Miss Laurctte Helene Love and Vincent SL Whelan, '32, were married, August 2, in Mon­mouth Beach, New Jersey. 
The marriage of Miss Kathryn Agnes Nel­son and Andrew T. Sheibler, *32, took place, September 16. in Brooklyn, New York. 
Miss Teresa Larkin and Frederick B. Snite, '33, were married, August 10, in River Forest, Illinois. ~ 
The marriage of Miss Theresa Chisholm and Eugene Blishr '34. took place, June 21, in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. 
Miss Florence Clark and John P. Gorman. *34. were married, June 24, in River Forest, Illinois. 
Miss Martha Virginia Maus and Jack H. Landers, '34. were married, August 12, in Springfield, Missouri. 
Miss Alice Weber and John N. Leonard, '34. were married, August 17, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Jeanne G. Rybacki and Francis J. Mc-Gahren, '34, were married, September 9, in Brooklyn, New York. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth Barge and William H. Schroder, Jr., '35, were married, September 
19. in Atlanta. Georgia. 
Miss Madge Marie Cunningham and William 
F. Bembrock, '35, were married. June 9. at Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Elizabeth Bunnell and Harold L. Goebcl. '35, took place. July 9. in South Bend. 
Miss Gertrude McDougall and Paul E. Car­rico, *36, were married. August 10, in Salt Lake City. 
Miss Jane Fimiani and Edward F. Kumrow, '36, were married, August 4, in Buffalo, New-York. 
Miss Dorothy Helen Greenan and Francis X. Deeo', '36, were married. May 6, in Indian­apolis. 
Mr. and Mrs. Roger H. Felton announce the marriage of their daughter, Jean Van Buren. to Dale G. Fillers, *3S, on August 5, in Phila­delphia. 
Miss Katherine King and Edward R. Neaher, ' *37, were married on July 29. 
Miss Mary Loretta Welch and Thomas Gor­man, '37. were married, July 20. at Lexing­ton. Kentucky. 

Miss Lucille EuHtz and Louis Hickcy, *37, were married, August 12, in South Bend. 
Miss Peggy Cohen and Joseph Shapcro, '37. were married, August 22, in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Barbara B. Troy and Joseph B. Zwers, '37, took place, June 24, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Mary Louise Lytle and John A. Hart, *38. were married, July 29, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Eileen V. Alorfoot and John F. Helmer, '38, were married, August 23, in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Helen O'Bryan and William V. O'Brien. '38, took place, June 17, in Little Rock, Arkansas. Among the at­tendants were John Murrin. IV, '38, Arthur Davidson, '38, and Paul Fenlon, '19. 
Miss Arda Mae, Taylor and Roy J. Klecka, ex. '38, were married. July 8, in South Bend. 
Miss Anne Burke and Walter J. Duncan. *3S, were married, September 23, in Our Lady Chapel, Notre Dame. 
'Miss Ruth E. Snodgrass and Joseph Di Mat­tco, '38, were married. July 6, in Pittsburgh. 
The marriage of Miss Evelyn Anuszkiewicz and Gregory P. Cashing, '39, took place. September 14. 
The marriage of Miss Emilie St. Teresa and Edward J. Longhi. '39, took place. August 7, in New Haven. Connecticut. 
Miss Jeanne Burgoyne and Joseph 31. Tm­deau, '39, were married, September 25, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Jane Walsh and Charles R. Risdon, Jr., ex. '40. were married, June 10, in Chicago. 

Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph McGIynn, '12, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, on August IS, in East St. Louis, Illinois. 
Mr. and Mrs. Timothy P. Galvin. '16, an­nounce the birth of a son, Patrick Joseph, on July 2, in Hammond, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Beacom, Jr., *20. announce the birth of a son, Thomas H., HI. on May 6, in Wilmette, Illinois. 
A son. Martin Thomas, was born to Mr. and Mrs. James Ronan, *26, on July 27, in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. George O'Day. '26. announce the birth of a son, in August, in Cleveland. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Roger Nolan, *26. on May 15, in Daveniwrt, Iowa. 
A daughter, Ann, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Harry W. G'Boyle. '27. on August 4. in St. Louis. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Lancton, '28, announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Therese, on August 7. in Peoria, Illinois. 
Mr. and Mrs. Encene FarrcU, *28, an­

The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1939 
nouncc the birth of a son, Peter Michael, on July 14, in Jamaica, New York. 
A son, Michael Beime. w-as bom to Mr. and Mrs. John F. MdSIahon, '2S, on June 30, in Pittsburgh. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Dicic, '29. an­nounce the birth of a daughter, on September 4, in Denver, Colorado. 
A son, Hueh J., IH, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Hueh J. McManii^al, Jr., ex. '29, on September 8, in Newport News, Virginia. 
A daughter, Ann Dorothy, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. James O'TooIe. '29, on June 23, in San Diego, California. 
Mr. and Mrs, Bernard W. Conroj-, '30, an­nounce the birth of a son. Donald Bernard, on August 1, in New Kensington, Pennsyl­vania. 
A son, James, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John J. Cassidy, *30, on June 10. in Wash­ington. D. C. 
Mr. and Mrs, I^co It. ]^IcAIoon, ex. '30, an­nounce the birth of a son, on June 25. in Pawtucket, Rhode Island. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Ncbcl, ex. *31, an­nounce the birth of twins, William McCaffrey and John P^ul, on July 31, in Pittsburgh. 
Mr. and Mrs. James W, Murray, *31, an­nounce the birth of a son, James W.. Jr., on June 14, in Batavia, New York. 
A daughter was born to Mr. and Mrs. Frank E. Inen, *32, in July, in Kansas City, Missouri. 
Mr. and Mrs. James Higgins, '32, announce the birth of a son, last March, in Kansas City, Missouri. 
A son, Edward Cary, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Theodore S. Halpin, *32, on July 26. in Indiannpolis. 
A son, Colman Denis, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Colman O'Shaughncssy. *32, on June 2S. in White Plains, New York. 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald T, Jlyan, '32. an­nounce the birth of a daughter. Laurinda Grace, on April 23, in Brooklyn, New York. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Leo J. Bragger, '34, in Erie. Pennsylvania. 
Mr. and Mrs. William F. O'Brien, '34. an­nounce the birth of a son, William F., Jr., on August 9, in Bridgeport, Connecticut. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Quinn. Jr., '34. announce the birth of a son, Charles Francis, ni , on September 13. in Mincola, Long Island. 
A son. Jere Joseph, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Frank D. Van Allen, '34, on August 12, in Little Falls. New York. 


Deaths 
Rev. Patrick T. O'Reilly, C.S.C., who early in the century taught Spanish at Notre Dame, died in Dublin, Ireland, his native city, on July 7. Because of the illness from which he suffered most of his life. Father O'Reilly was forced to relinquish his teaching at Notre Dame and seek a change of climate. For many years he was chaplain at- Seton In­firmary, Austin, Texas. After long absence from it, he visited his native Ireland this summer. 
Father O'Reilly was born March 28, 1871. His primary and secondary education he re­ceived in Dublin. He studied philosophy at the Irish College, Valladolid, Spain, and the­ology at Holy Cross College, Brookland, D. C. 
He entered the Congregation of Holy Cross at Notre Dame on August 15. 1001, and %vas ordained on September 19. 1902. 
Rev. George O'Connor, C.S.C, once assistant superior of Holy Cross Seminary. Notre Dame, later teacher and prefect at St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas, died on August 30, in St. Joseph Hospital. South Bend, after a year's illness. 
After his work at St. Edward's, Father O'Connor scrv*cd as a special missionary in Utah and Nevada. In 192S, he established St. Augustine's parish for the colored people of South Bend and remained as pastor of it until failing health caused his retirement a year before his death. His efforts in that -field, especially during the difficult days of the Depression, won him the deep devotion of his parishioners. 
Brother Walter, CS-C, '15, (John Remling­er), a veteran of 17 j'ears of missionary service in Bengal, India, died in the Community In­firmary at Notre Dame on August 15. He had been ill since returning to the campus in the summer of 1938 as a delegate to the general chapter of the Congregation of Holy Cross and his illness had prevented his return to the mission field. 
Brother Walter entered the brotherhood on December 8. 1009, and was professed on Jan­uary 6. 1915. Much of his work in India was devoted to organizing and directing St. Greg­ory's School in Dacca, Bengal. 
Judge Michael O. Bums, LL.B. '86. Hamil­ton, Ohio, secretan* of his class, president of the Notre Dame club of Hamilton and con­stant friend of the University and the Com­munity in the 53 j*ears since his graduation, died in Hamilton on July 15. He had suf­fered a cerebral hemorrhage in the pre\'ioas September from which he never entirely re­covered. 
Rev. Bernard J. Ill, C.S.C.. was the official representative of the University at the funeral of Mr. Bums on July 18. Attorney B. Vincent Pater, '22, of Hamilton, was one of the honor­ary pallbearers. Frank E. Hering, '98. of South Bend, a lay trustee of the University and editor of the "Eagles Magazine." was also present at the funeral. Mr. Bums had for years been a leader in the affairs of the Fraternal Order of Eagles and was elected national president of the organization in 1926. He was particularly active and influential in the program of old age pensions which the Eagles sponsored successfully. 
Grateful friends and fellow citizens rewarded Mr. Burns' zeal and ability with many pub­lic offices and fraternal honors. He was city solicitor in Hamilton, prosecuting attorney of Butler County. Ohio, and, from 1936 until his death, common pleas judge of Butler County. He was one of the organizers and first grand knight of the Knights of Columbus in Hamil­ton and later a district deputy of the order. He was also an exalted ruler of the Hamil­ton Elks and a district deputy in that order and he served as president of the Butler County Bar Association. 
Surviving Mr. Bums are his wife, three sisters and three grandchildren. 
ALUMNUS readers have long since read elsewhere of the death, on July 28, of the world-famed Dr. William J. Mayo, Rochester, Minnesota, who delivered the Commencement address in 1936 and receivt^ at the same time the honorary LLJD. degree. His equally fa­mous brother. Dr. Charles Mayo, who also received an LL.D. in 1936, died just two months before—on May 27. 
Peter J. Home, Valparaiso,' Indiana, a stu­dent in 1877-79, died in late July in Clear­water. Florida, according to information sent by his son to Father Joseph E. Hart, C.S.C., of the Mission Band. The elder Mr. Home, an attendant at the Notre Dame Lay Retreats, was buried in Valparaiso after Mass in St. Paul's Church there. 
Jalins Andrew- Arce, CE. '99, of Buenos Aires, Argentina, died on August 27. His son, George Arce. ex. '33, is with the Bur­roughs Adding Machine Company in Detroit. 
Llewellyn D. James, LL.B. '17, died in St. Louis on June 7. Brief w*ord of his death was sent to the Alumni Office by his secretary, who said that he had been ill for several months. 
Father Frank Gartland. C.S.C, prefect of religion, received a telegram with notification of the death, on September 15, of James P. Doyle, ex. '31, of Auburn. New York. 
The Alumni Office received word in Sep­tember of the death within the summer of Sister KL Francis Regis, B.V.>L, of Dubuque. Iowa, who received her MJV. at Notre Dame in 1929. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to William A. Correll, *04, on the death of his father; William C Eegler, '98, upon the death of his wife; William A. Daunt, '08, upon the death of his father; William J. Shea. '15. upon the death of his father; Austin A. Mc-Nidiols, '17, upon the death of his brother: George O'Day, '26. upon the death of his father: William Reid, *26, upon the death of his father; Gilbert W. Schaefcr, '26, upon the death of his mother: Brother Donald, CS.C.. '31, upon the death of his sister; Francis J., '32, Arnold. '35, and Reginald Morrison. '32. upon the death of their brother: E. Merlin. '23. and Francis D. Rolwing, '26. upon the death of their father. 
Class Groups Are Changed 
Aim is New Life An d Interest. 
The number of alumni before 1910 has grown proportionately smaller as the large classes of recent years have been added annu­ally to the ranks of the Association. 
Space in the ALUMNUS has become an im­portant item from an editorial standpoint. 
Contact with the alumni of earlier years,, even by the secretaries of the classes of those years, has become increasingly difficult. The office of class secretary has become professed­ly burdensome, without exception, to the men who held the position. 
None of the above considerations would, however, have dictated a change of policy, if the general results were still constructive. But it has been a growing conviction of the Alum­ni Office ia the last several years that this 

October. 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
dearth of news amon? the older alumni, em­phasized by the absence, issue after issue, of any news from so many of the classes, has been a source of actual depression to many of the members of those classes. It has con­tributed to the feeling that most of the older alumni are inactive, or dead, or lost in the imposins bulk of the new Notre Dame. 
There is considerable refutation of that feelinK. actually, but we feel that it is hard to achieve in the face of the awkward me­chanics of the almost year-by-year recording 
- of those earlier years. To eliminate this stumbling block, and inject, we believe and hope, a new life into the older alumni, the ALUMNUS is re-orRanizing the classes be­fore 1010 into groups representing a broader period. The new division, for experimental purposes. w*ill be 1S90, and before, 1890 to 1S99. 1900 to 1904, and 1905 to 1909. Under this division, it will he possible, and increas­ingly so we. hope, to have something in each issue under each of these headings, so that the misleading and sinister spaces of the for­mer class headings will not strike false terrors into some of the young and valiant hearts that still live in these groups. 
R«kfm*«» lAQ n T*.E. Burke,'88,301 Camp, 
Cerore lOVUy^^^ Orleans. Louisiana. (The ALUMNUS is asking Mr. P. E. Burke. 301 Camp St., New Orleans, to continue to act as secretary of this period. Mr. Burke lives in a popular center often visited by alumni. He himself travels frequently, cor­responds beautifully, and is active fraternally, which adds up to an excellent secretary.) 
Judge Thomas F. Gallagher. '76, Fitchburg, Massachusetts, sent welcome word of the first solemn Mass of Father Bernard I. MuIIahy, C.S.C., ex. '34. also of Fitchburg. in St. Ber­nard's Church on August 6. Judge Gallagher had followed the career of the youthful priest ever since he entered Fitchburg High School from which he was graduated in 192S. Imme­diately thereafter he entered Holy Cross Sem­inary, Notre Dame. After two years in Mo­reau he went to Rome in 1932 for intensive philosophical and theological study and was ordained there on December 17, 1938. Father Mullahy is now a member of the faculty at Notre Dam". 
Father Mullahy was assisted in his first solemn Mass by Father Frank Gartland, C.S.C., prefect of religion, and Father Ed­mund Murray, CS.C. Father Thomas Duffy, CS.C, superior of the eastern Mission Band, preached the sermon. 
1 ft<)n.1 ftQQ Kev. J. A. MncNamani, *97. *"*'" *-^^^ Saint Joseph's Sanitariam, Mount Clemens, Michigan. 
(The ALUMNUS is re-placing the burden of this group on the deceivingly frail shoul­ders of the Rcr. John MacNamara. Father Mac has New England, Atlantic Seaboard, and Great Lakes bases, from which he oper­ates annually. He. too, is a welcome corre­spondent, and his many contacts during the football season leave him with a store of knowledge that his Notre Dame predecessors, the Pinkertons. might envy.) 
1 0nn 1 Qnd Robt. £. proctor. '04, STonger 
x«7VU A9\/ ^ Building, Elkhart, Indiana. 
(Happily ciualified to extend his responsibil­ities over this period, from a viewpoint of the ALUMNUS, is Robert Proctor. Bob is centrally located, a frequent visitor at Notre Dame, widely acquainted, and with national affiliations.) 
Byrne Daly, veteran Lay Retreat attendant. 
headed another large delegation from Jack­son, Michigan, to this summer's Retreat on the campus. 
There was word this summer from Henry Zolpcr. *04, Rapid City, South Dakota, who directs WPA operations in the 15 counties of west South Dakota. 
1 Q(\^ 1 QnQ Ke^* Thos. £. Burke. CS.C, 
i:9UO-i:9U:y '07, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
(For the time being, until we get something on him, the ALUMNUS is going to ask Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C.. to add to his charges the other classes of this era. Father Burke is within hailing distance of the Office, and his C.S.C. contemporaries of the period are frequently sources of contact with the classmates out in the world.) 
Bill Daunt. 'OS. who directed again the successful Retreat of the New York Club, was a welcome visitor on the campus in the late summer. Bill is the Daunt of the Daunt Corporation, 110 East 42nd Street, the largest independent engineering, sales and manufac­turing organization in whiteway. lighting poles and luminaries. 
On his way to the New York Fair. Otto Hannon, '09. Port Arthur. Texas, stopped off on July 19 for a flying few minutes on the campus and in the Alumni Office. 
191 0 ^^^* ^'* ^* ^'o""*"**'* 1300 Euclid 
Ave.. Clevelund. Ohio. 
Leo McElroy, East Norwalk, Connecticut, 
is one of the fast increasing number of alum­
ni who has a son on the campus. One Mc­
Elroy came this September and another will 
arrive next September. Concerning the boys, 
Leo writes: "You might send this news to 
Mike Moriarty to use in the report of 1910 
activities. Insofar ns I know, I am the first 
man in my class to have a son entered at 
N.D. If not, who beats me?" 
Editor says: Sam Dolan. Sam Dolan. Jr.. Corvallis. Oregon,, is a junior this year in the College of Commerce. 
191 1 ^^^*1* Steers. IGGG Tirst National Bank Building, Chicago. Illinois. 
1912 ^-''' K^^^'cr, .•124 Tourth St., Pitts­burgh, Penns>'lvania. 
TQ12 Pawl R* Byrne, University Library, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Miss Gertrude Kirk, one of the six daughters of Harrj- Kirk. 1404 Otis St., Washington. 
D. C, was elected president of the National Federation of Catholic College Students at 
Left to right, Allwrto Aranjo. Antonio and Manuel Leqnerica. See 1913 news. 

the first national convention of that group In New York in September. Added Holy Cross interest derives from the fact that Miss Kirk is a student at Dimbarton College, conducted in Washington by the Holy Cross Sisters, and that the Federation voted to support .the Youth Bureau of the N.C.W.C. and this vote was acknowledged by the Rer. E. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C, '16, Director of the Bureau, which is the coordinating Catholic Youth or­ganization under the direction of the Hier­archy. 
The Lcquerica brothers, Antonio and Man­uel, joined Senor Arauio and their younger brother, Roberto Lequerica, in entertaining members of the Social Service Commission to Venezuela when the party of 16 stopped off for a day in Cartagena, Colombia, on the re­turn voyage. 
Although it is 25 years since the elder Ijcqucricns have visited the campus, their loyalty to Notre Dame was amply evidenced in the lavish hospitality they showered on members of the Commission, three of whom were from the University: Rev. WiUiun F. Cunningham, CS.C, James E. McCarthy, dean of Commerce, and Tom Barry, director of publicity. Father O'Hara. chairman of the Commission, did not visit Cartagena as it was necessary for him to proceed direct to New York from Venezuela. 
Although Senor Araujo is not an alumnus of Notre Dame, he can be termed a Notre Dame man. as his son, Ramon, arrived on the campus June 1 and is enrolled as a fresh­man in the College of Commerce. 
1914 3E>itnk n. Hayes. 406 Bank of Amer­ica Bailding, Anaheim, Calif. 
1 qi e James E. ^nford, 1524 Fnrwell **'**' Ave.. Ghicaffo, Hlinois. 
From Jim Sanford, a recent visitor on the campus: 
"Bill Kelleher is well represented in the class of 1940 with t^vo sons, Williara and John. A younger brother. Bob will enter in about five years. The family home is at 1303 Second Street, Lorain, Ohio. 
"Two years ago Ray Kelly gave the win­ning candidate for National Commander of the American Legion a close race. As this is written, Chicago is grooming itself to be host to the 21st national convention and again Ray in candidate. This time those who should know are of the opinion that he will win. AVhatever the outcome, the class is proud to have one of its members attain such recog­nition, 
"The ckiss lost one of its devoted members in the death of Brother Walter, C.S.C., who w*as buried from Sacred Heart Church. Most of Brother Walter's labors since his gradua­tion were in the Indian Mission at Dacca. Bengal, and in spite of the thousands of miles that separated him from his classmates he maintained close contact through correspon­dence. The sympathy of the class Is extended to his family. R. I. P. 
"Ray Eichenlanb, Joe Pliska. Bill Kelleher and other members of the class took a promi­nent part in the dedication of the Rockne Field House at Commencement. Many of these men were not only associated with Rockne at Notre Dame hut worked with him summers at Cedar Point resort on Lake Erie. 
"The secretary was unable to be present at the ceremonies but listened on the radio to Gas Dorais* eloquent and touching tribute. Rev. 'William F. Murphy of Sandusky, Ohio, who performed the wedding ceremony which united Mr. and Mrs. Rockne. was present to greet many of his old friends. He Eer\'ed as summer chaplain to several generations of Notre Dame men who worked at Cedar Point, a few mites away from his parish. 
''Get readj' to make our Silver Anniversary Reunion next June the best ever. More about it later." 
Gcorce Shustcr is the new dean and acting president of Hunter College in New York City. "Widely noted as a writer, especially, in recent years, on Germany, George was for some years managing editor of 'The Common­weal.* He will be acting president of Hunter until the return of Dr. Eugene A. Colligan, president, who was given a one-year leave of absence effective October 1. 
1916 Timothy P. Galvin, First Trust Building. Hammond, Indiana. 
The Mana^ng Ed had a long and pleasant session in Rochester this summer with Joe "Stubby" FIj-nn, who, besides being one of the leading architects of the town, is at pres­ent grand knight of the Rochester K. of C. Jack Dorsdiel. '31, club president. Bill Mcrri­man. '25. Vic Yawman, '26, and Jack Norton, *3G, joined in on the highly profitable discus­sions about placement in the Rochester area. 
John Ward, one of Prof. Cooncy's stars in the immediate pre-War days, was one of the many who attended the September 6 golf party of the Western Pennsylvania club in Pittsburgh. John is on the editorial staff of the Pittsburgh "Sun-Telegraph" (with Joe Brcig, ex. *2S) and, in addition to fathering a large household of his own—seven children, if the editorial memory ser\-es accurately—he is one of the prime workers for Catholic youth in the Pittsburgh district. 
1Q17 Edu-ard J. McOsker, IW So. ITniiin **'• " St., Elgin, Illinois. 
1918 ^^^" '^' I^mmf'i'* ^110 Eighth Ave.. 
Esranulm, Mirliignn. 
Lawrence Ott and his wife, of Los Angeles, opened their eyes wide to take in all of the newer Notre Dame when they visited the cam­pus this summer for the first time in 22 years. 
IQiq CloTf-nre Rsider, 650 Pierce Street, A«7X9 finr>-, Imliaiia. 
1 Q9fl ^'^ ^- ^Vttrd. 1013 Blnck Bldg.. T*os 
A.7^ v vngcles, California. 
John Balfc, besides doing magnificent work, as always, for the Notre Dame Club of New York City—he is enoying remarkable success, for instance, as chairman of the cIuVs com­mittee on placement—was in July elected chairman of the board and president of the Centre Association for Catholics. The Centre Club at 120 Central Park South, maintained by the Association, is a Catholic headquarters in New York City and the scene of many Notre Dame functions. 
1Q91 ^^^ ^^* Duffy, 1600 Tvmiinnl Tower, **'^ * Cleveland, Ohio. 
IQOO Gerald Ashe, Missouri Athletic Ass., **'*'*' 40.1 Washington Ave., St. Louis, Mo, 
John Bergan, *31. South Bend, sends word that George Kcr\'cr is the new superintendent of claims of the New Amsterdam Casualtj' Company for the state of Ohio, with offices in Terminal Tower. Cleveland. 
And. Kpeaking of Cleveland—Pete Cham­pion, with his son. Dave, stopped off on the campus one day in the summer on the return trip from Chicago. Both of them were en­thusiastic in planning for the Na\'y game in Cleveland on October 21. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
192 3 ^*°"' ''* Gastner, 17 Cornell Road, West Hartford, Connecticut. 
Ed Kelly, of Chicago, with Harold Cooke. *24, is again active in promoting "specials" to Notre Dame games. This fall they will have excursions to the Purdue, Northwestern, and Southern Cal games on the campus and to the Navy game in Cleveland. Offices are in Ford's Travel Ser\'ice, 135 South La Salle Street, of which Ed is manager. 
1924 *'' ^' ^"y*^' ^^*"^> ^* P^driek and 
Co., International Rldg., Rockefeller Center, New York City. 
Chief Scout John Bergan, *31, reporting again: "Lew Frickc, in charge of compensa­tion claims for the Travelers* South Bend branch, renewed many old acquaintances in New England and Montreal during the past summer." 
1Q2 ^ John P. liurlev. 2085 UriM>kduIe Ai7^^ Kmid, T.dedo, Ohio, 
From John Hurley, on August 14: 
"It's an ill wind"—George Chao's plight and the grand appeal that Jim Armstrong made will do more to unite and bring the class back to our fifteenth reunion than a 100 class secre­taries could. Some of the boys whose ad­dresses may have been wrong may want to swell the fund's second installment which I will forward to George in Shanghai through the National City Bank of New York and not the Post Office department. 
"So far we have heard from 38 fellows and have collected ?5T.00, It doesn't take a Brother Cyp accountant to figure out that some of the boys took Jim's advice. 'If you can send more, you are building up a credit where it will do you lots of good.' There were four five-dollar contributions, some three dollars and two dollars. 
"Most of the boys had an additional word for class news and for those who didn't. I'm at least using their letter head address—^l»e­causo some of the fellows may be interested. 
"Lawrence Case5'*s note from 110 Main Street, Batavia, New York, was among the first to arrive (and I'm going to pass on the notes as per the dates on the postmarks on the letters), Larry is practicing law in Batavia and plans to make the fifteenth reunion in June. He hasn't seen many '2iiers for some time. 
"Henrj- Wurzer, of the Kahl Investment Corp., of Davenport, Iowa, didn't say a word but came through five fold. Hank was elected first vice-president of the Alumni Association l"st June. 
**Funeral Director Willard Jones of Dixon, Illinois, writes: 
•• 'I was sorry to get this message from Jim, and am sorrier still that I cannot do many times this much for our very good friend George. I have always considered George one of my most interesting experiences at Notre Dame and I am sure that all of his friends will respond in as generous a way as possible.* 
" 'The Hurlej's, I am sure, are going along on an even keel, as usual. The Jones* are still eating regularly and have managed to keep in good with the local merchants. I am already making plans for our fifteenth re­union next June. The date is marked on the calendar, and I hoi>e that this time nothing will rear up at the last moment to keep me away. I missed the ten-year reunion due to illness of one of my sons, but I am sure that they are going to have mercy on the "old gent" this time and keep well during that time.' 
October, 1939 
" 'Armstrong will probably wonder why I cannot pay my dues if I can make this con­tribution, but I am planning a big surprise on "the round man." He will probably lose a few of those extra chins and hip-folds when he gets my letter one of these days.' 
" *My very best wishes to the Hurleys and any other of the boys that you may see from time to time.' 
"Bernard Foley built up a five-fold credit over what Jim asked and topped it off with some prayers, as per this fine letter, 
" 'I am herewith enclosing my contribution in response to Jim's appeal on the reverse side. While I have always kept more closely in touch with the affairs of the class of *23, my first graduating outfit, I have always been proud of the class of '25, especially the fine gang that made up the law class and the only ones that I came to know real well. How­ever, as a member of the '25 crew I am glad to assist in this splendid effort to help our classmate in distress. To me, that is the real Notre Dame spirit and I hope that George Chao will not be disappointed in us.' 
" 'Personally I have been actively engaged in the practice of law with my father here in Crawfordsville ever since that eventful day in June '25 when along with Cliff Potts. Leo Riedcr, Don Miller and a lot of other fine fellows the University said by way of a sheep­skin that "we" could hang out a shingle.' 
"We. Helen Paj-ne Foley, St. Mary's Acad­emy. '22, and I have two daughters. Mary "Pat," 11 and Ann Therese. 8, St. Mary'a­bound and confirme<I N.D. rooters. Will say a few for George and his.' 
**John J. Kane, Jr., is assistant prosecuting attorney in Youngstown. Ohio, and writes that he wanted to add to his contribution and mentions that Jim was right when he says we all crossed George Chao's bus>- path at some time during our stay at Notre Dame, 
"Bob Worth is with the PVesto-0-Lite Bat­tery Co., Inc. of Indianapolis and has four girls. He adds that the following may be news worthy: 
"'Paul Rahe late of Tulsa is with the Gulf Refining Co. in Indianapolis. The Rahes have two children. I see Bob Gordon ' in Fort Wayne every few weeks. He is practicing law and is still the same size and shape as when he left school, I get to Toledo two or three times a year and would like to see you on my next visit.* 
"I'd be delighted. Bob. and the same holds gofxl for the rest of the class. 
"John Kilkenny of the firm Raley. Kilkenny & Raley of Pendleton, Oregon, came through two fold and mentions that he plans to make one of the games this fall and hopes to sec some of the '25ers after the long lapse of 14 years. I hope if John doesn't make one of the games that he will make the reunion. 
"Reuben Momscn is practicing in El Paso. Texas, under the firm name of Nocop &. Mom-sen. Reuben sends his dollar and two addi­tional ones for good measure but no note. You owe me one. Rube. 
"These letters came from coast to coast, one from Oregon. Texas, and now Joe Fitz­patrick, of the Florida National Bank & Trust Company of Miami, drops a note with his contribution that Bob Leppcrt, *32. was re­cently made general manager of the General Tire Company of Miami (O'Ncils General Tire Company of Akron.) Joe hopes to see some of us this fall. Make it in June too. Joe. 
"John Drocge doubled up on his contribu­tion but had no news. His envelope indicates 

October, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
he is the Droepe of the Frj* & Droege Ford agency in Mishawakn. Indiana. 
"Norb Skellcy of Low's Drue Store, Salina, Kansas, writes as follows: 
" 'Attached find one dollar for our Chinese friend. I have just returned from a vacation on the Pacific Coast. Made a Retreat at Loy­ola University while in Los Angeles; enjoyed it very much. Visited Santa Clara University Inter. Conditions in Kansas are much the same as in 1933—business bad because of no rain. If things do not pick up I*H be like the Chinaman.' 
"Dick Mullancy of the Whitney Chain & Mfg. Co.. West Hartford, Connecticut, writes a note with his contribution: 
" "The Association helped me when help was surely needed. So glad to return a little on account.' 
" 'Not much news—just plugging along to provide the necessities for five youngsters. Just returned from five years in Texas and will see N.D.-Army game first time in 15 years.* 
"Walter Houppcrt sent a five, along with this fine letter: 
" 'I knew George Chao and admired him. I feel certain that with his "fighting-Irish Spirit" he will work his way out of his present difTiculties. It is a pleasure to join the other members of the class of *25 in giving George a helping hand.' 
" 'I am married and reside at 3543 North Pennsylvania Street, Indianapolis, Indiana. I am engaged In the practice of law, and am now with the Home Owner's Loan Corpora­tion as its Indiana state counsel.* 
"Elmer Laj-dcn Wasn't too busy with his All-Star team to forget George. Seven mil­lion football fans can't be wrong. 
"'Cousin' Bill Hurley writes as follows: 
" 'Sorry to lie so brief, but T just returned from New York and have plenty of work ahead of me. Hope my modest donation will do some good in the far East.* 
" 'Attended the Notre Dame Alumni festivi­tie.-! at the Fair. I didn't feel exactly at home due to my advanced age. The dinner was good, but the company was better. Elmer Laydcn, Spike McAdams. Art Haley. Bill Dooley and I were the singles. Howard Haley, John Bartlcy and Bill Cronin had their wives. I spent the week-end with Mac and had a cir­cus. If I missed any sights. I don't know what they were. I called "Cousin" Bob Hur­ley and met him and his charming wife one evening at the Fair. We certainly had a great gab-fcst. More dope later. Regards to Marie and the children.* 
"Jim Wrape is practicing law, with offices in the Sterick Building, Memphis. Tennessee. Jim sends his regards to the class. 
"Tom Goss hits the nail on the head about our Jim Armstrong in the following letter. 
" 'I am very glad that the class of *25 has Jim as alumni secretary and also more pleased to sec Jim take upon himself a personal mat­ter of this nature, and hope most of the boys will respond with some sort of a contribution.' 
" 'I have often thought of Georsrc Chao and his efforts to take on the spirit of the "fighting Irish" and hope George comes through this crisis in a big way.' 
" *I am still with the United States Gypsum Company covering the seaboard. Even man­aged to sneak away last month for a short trip out your way, but could not include one more da>- to visit Notre Dame as I had planned.* 
" 'I hope this letter of Jim's will bring out more news of the class and that you will pass it along accordingly as I read every word carefully in your column.' 
" 'It is sort of shrinking every year, John, whereas each year should bring out bigger and better news of the gang we once knew so well. Hope you get this news soon.' 
"Harry Stuhldrcher, director of athletics of the University of Wisconsin, sends along the following letter: 
" 'In accordance with the wish of Jim Arm­strong, I am enclosing a dollar to be added to the fund for George Chao. I am sorry to learn that he has had such a rough road hut if we were to make a sur\-ey, in all possi­bility we would find that he has plenty of company. . . ,* 
" 'My work at Wisconsin has been very enjoyable. The people have lived up to the Middle West tradition of complete hospitality and willingness to cooperate. I f(^el sure that by I960 we will be running along more smoothly. This is said in jest, of course, for conditions couldn't be any better. Let's hope that the day will come when we can win our share of games.* 
" 'In the event that I happen to be sched­uled to appear in Toledo at an alumni affair. I certainly will look you up. In the mean­time promote the three-legged chairs for they seem to be the latest development in the furniture game.* 
"Harry polled around three million votes in the AU-Star poll, giving the class of *25 over ten million. Not bad! 
"Charley Mouch, Sandusky. Ohio, is still covering Sandusky County with Chevrolets. 
"Paul Doolcy's letter was good news to me as well as it will be to George Chao. 
" 'Am planning to be stationed in Toledo after September 1. Electrolux Corp., 331 Security Bank Building.' 
" 'Encloseil is a "fin" for George Chao— always had a great admiration for him. and his untiring effort in the face of difficult cir­cumstances has always been a source of in­spiration to me.' 
"These advertising men don*t believe in ad­vertising themselves but Sherlock Holmes Hurley figures out from Al Sommer's contri­bution letter that he is still with McCann-Erickson. Inc.. 1300 Guardian Building, Cleve­land. 
"I take it that Architect Rabey Funk Is desifniing bigger and better court houses with his company, Townes & Funk: 
" 'Thanks for the privilege of doing this for George.' 
" 'Saw Jim Armstrong some three years ago while in South Bend—my wife. Marie's home. There are five Funks at present, one eligible for Notre Dame sometime and four that would not be admitted.' 
" *I have been practicing in Amarillo since 1927—and in Albuquerque since 1936. Have had a good business considering best work being in court house field. Have done seven since practicing.' 
" 'I spent most of my time here but if anyone is passing here or Albuquerque, please come by. Attached is a card. We can always find something to quench the thirst of a w-eary traveler.* 
"Bob Howland of St. Louis writes: 

" 'Sorry I can't do more for George but I guess every little bit will help. I think it was his older brother that I visited in Sh.ang­
hai in 1923 when I was over there, and, if 
I'm not mistaken, he was in the newspaper business.' 
" 'Jim asks for dope about myself for the 1925 column but there has been so little change in my activities during all these years that there doesn't seem much to write. I am rounding out my fourteenth year with the Missouri Pacific Railroad and am still assist­ant advertising manager. The most interest­ing part of the work that I have had to do here is now past, and the job is pretty much routine. That part was the development and promotion of Mexico as a new and unexplored foreign tourist attraction. For some years our department practically lived on the rails be­tween St. Louis and Mexico City, but now Mexico is so well established that it is rolling along satisfactorily on its own momentunu My gadding about the country has settled down until now I seldom leave the desk. It takes some of the romance and excitement out of the job.' 
" 'Best regards to you, John» and to Jim Armstrong. I hope I'll be able to get up for one of the games.* 
"Ed Baker says. 'Have heard from Paul Dufand thanks to the ALUMNUS publicity. Hope you can get this past the Japs.' Smart George has taken care of this Ed; he doesn't trust the Shanghru post office. 
"Herman Centlivre is the Centlivre Brewing Corporation of Fort Wayne, Indiana, but that's that. Herm, you had better give us a long letter later on in the fall.' 
"Noble E. Kizer is feeling a lot better and back as director of athletics at Purdue Uni­versity. Noble writes: 
" 'I am pinning a modest dollar, as per the instruction of Jim. to this letter. I sincerely hope that our class comes through to give George a new start so that his big smile will continue on out in China.* 
" 'It looks like the *25 class went over big in the All-American Coaches* Pbll, putting Elmer in the head coach and Harry as assist­ant coach. The '25 class has dominated the All-American coaches* poll since it started five years ago.* 
" 'Don't forget that I will be very happy to work with you in getting the *25 class back to the fifteenth reunion next year.* 
"Seb Miller gives an account of himself as follows: 
" 'Kindly place the attached dollar with the George Chao fund.* 
" 'During the last five years I have been continuing my utility work as gas and water engineer for all properties of the Northern Indiana Power Co. Almost weekly I have a short chat with Pete Grose and Jimmy Sheerin. both of whom live in Kokomo. About every two or three weeks I get back to Fort Wayne and usually run into one of the Notre Dame bey*:.* 
"Dick Zeller's new address is G75 N. Michi­gan Avenue, Chicago. Dick adds: 
" 'If this is your idea, you are certainly to be complimented. I hope our little help may bring back George*5 Irish grin.' 
"Dr. Edward W. Lakner of 3197 E. 93rd Street, Cleveland, writes: 
" 'I'll take time out to reply to this because I've just put myself in this poor fellow's place and it doesn't feel very good.* 
"Bill Dielmann writes: " 'I'm afraid 1*11 have a hard time comply­
30 The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1939 
ing: with Jim's request on the re\'erse hereof, that I tell you something about myself.' 
" 'We still have a Notre Dame club here in San Antonio. John Bitter, '32, is our presi­dent having succeeded me a year and a half ago. Jake Blenger is still ailing and I really must pay him a \-isit. Leonard Hess is the father of three bouncing babies and spends most of his time at his ranch near Marathon, Texas. Mike Ncedhara is in Corpus Christi, I believe. "Whatever became of John Snakard and Joe Shell}-T I suppose Ben Kcsting is still as rosy-jowled and roly-poly as ever-* 
** 'I am still on my first million and trj-ing to make a few dollars come my way. I took a flyer into politics about two months ago— but I think I'll let the politicians worry about such things in the future. Things on the whole are rather slow and uncertain down here in God's countrj-. We are all hoping for a change for the better. Business and the various fraternal organizations to which I be­long and in which I am active sen-c to keep me out of mischief. I hope the Chao collection goes over big,' 
" 'Let George do it' and he did—I've been trying to get some dope on Jack Shechan for a year and along comes this on Jack's Packard Motor Car Company of New^ York stationery: 
" 'Like Jim Armstrong. I too am trying to balance several budgets, but it's a real satis­faction to do even a meager bit in helping George Chao. I've wondered about him a great deal since the trouble in China broke out and it's a pity that so fine a character should have his world washed out from under him.* 
*' 'Henrj' "Spike" McAdams, the oil pump t>'coon, had Bill Hurley out for a quick tour of lovely Westchester County a few weeks ago. Sorry I missed seeing Bill but the 'phone chat with him was a pleasure. I gathered that he and Mac missed nothing in the way of "spots" in the big town, and at this mo­ment our oil pump pal is struggling for his second wind. Snappy pace setters, these Hurleys. No other '25ers' activities have come under our glass recently.' 
"Butch Haccker. of B. P. Goodrich Com­pany of Pittsburgh, was short and sweet; 'Very glad to help.' 
"Another changed address: George B. Shcehc is back in South Bend at 422 Shcr­land BIdg., but that's all I know. 
"Stephen Corboy gave me a promise and I'm holding him to it: 
" 'I am enclosing Jim's letter together with a dollar bill, and I certainly hope you w-ill be able to raise a little money for the un­fortunate Chinaman.* 
" 'I note that you are having a pretty tough job in getting information about the boys in our class, so sometime this month I ^vill give you all the data I know about some of the gang I came in contact with.' 
"Virg Fagan writes: "This is an odd sort of reason to have for dropping you a line. Am only sorry the con­tribution isn't more because I think Jim's let­ter is one of the best I've ever read. As I remember George Chao. he wouldn't ask for help unless he really needed it.' 
"Nothing exciting about me, John. Still "working hard" at Sears in the mail order advertising department. It's most fascinating work and we have several NJ). boys around. Just got back from a little vacation jaunt to Cuba and am trying to get back to normal.* 
" 'If you're ever in Chicago, John, give me a ring—please.* 
" 'I've flon-n over Toledo several times but so far haven't been able to drop in. But you never can tell.* ** 
From John Hurlcj*. on September 3 : 
"Having accounted for 36 of our classmates in my letter of August 14 I'm going to give you a report of about the same number who I've heard from up to and including Sep-, tembcr 1. 
"Met Bob Cooney's father just as I Was about to put in my first deposit of this fund in a special account. Mr. Jim Cooney (who played on one of N.D.'s first baseball nines) gave me a dollar for Bob. Bob is not in our class bul he knew George. 
"Bob Hurley besides enclosing his bit to the fund says that he had the pleasure of spend­ing an evening at the Fair with Bill Hurley. His wife and John Bartiey's wife couldn't un­derstand how such a 'handsome' man has remained single so long (meaning Bill Hur­ley). The only other item of importance to Bob was that Bob, Jr., has two teeth and is chewing on all the furniture he can readi. More power to you Bob, Jr.—J may be able to soil Bob, Sr.. some new furniture soon. Bob's at 34 Beaumont Place, Newark, New Jersey. 
"Dr. David Murphy, Dixon, Illinois, en­closed his check to give a little assistance. This 'little' assistance was five dollars. He remembered George well and was sorry to learn of his difficulty. 
"Karl Schacttlc's letter indicates that he is with or in the Products Development Com­pany of ItaCrossc, Wisconsin. Better follow up with a little news of yourself, Kari. 
"Dr. Fran L. Kennedy sent along word with his most welcome greenback that he attended St. Louis University after leaving N.D. He is married and as he puts it, 'has one end and a fullback for the year 195S.* His office is in 40S Humboldt BIdg.. Grand and Wash­ington, Si. Louis, Missouri. 
"Julius J. Danch is secretary of the Inde­pendent Hungarian Political Club of Gary. Indiana. Julius writes, 'Enclosed find attached my contribution. In a matter of this nature I can always be counted upon. George and I were pretty thick at Notre Dame and I'm only sorry I can't do better.' 
*'Gcorgc Ludwig sent only his contribution from 328 Glenhavcn Avenue, Grand Rapids, Michigan. How about some news, George? 
"A mystery note from Burlington, Wiscon­sin, with a dollar for George but no name. How about more light on this, Burlington? 
"Joe Toolen writes, 'tough for George on the other side of the world. You might have my address changed to 3630 N.' Meridian Street. Indianapolis, Indiana. Never think to take care of this when I sec. Jim. Good luck.* 
"Bill Bell sent his contribution to Jim who forwarded it to me. Bill is with Taylor In­strument Companies, Rochester. New York. 
"A nice letter from Walter Hall: 
" 'Here's a buck for George—Wish it could be more but I have a family of three kids that makes terrific demands on my budget. However, I'm glad to help out and hope George gets some benefit from the class of '25.' 
" 'Jim suggests I send you the low-down on myself too. You know I always was a bashful cuss. Good thing too 'cause I don't have much to brag about except a swell fomily— two boys and a girl. They are real timber for Notre Dame and St, Mary's and will get there some day if their Dad can do half the things his Dad did for him.' 
" 'As for work. I've been connected with Red Owl Stores for over 10 years in Min­neapolis. This is a Northwest grocery chain with 200 stores and 125 agencies. My job is assistant oitice manager and credit manager for the agency division. 
"'Was back at N.D. last fall for the Min­nesota game—you know it's really pleasant living in Minnesota now. I can imagine how you fellows in Ohio felt a few years ago.' 
"Bip Miller of the Navy sends a note: 'Tried to sec you recently in Toledo but the Captain (boss) changed my mind and itiner­ary. Give me a ring when you get down this way again.' 
"I saw Rip and his charming captain while the Hurleys were vacationing in the East. We also had a grand evening in Washington with the Honorable Vince Harrington and his hospitable and delightful wife. Iowa and Notre Dame should be proud of this son the way he handled a situation on a possible raising of the Spanish Embargo during that crisis. 
"George Ward is superintendent of the Pru­dential Insurance Company in" Chicago. 'This is in response to Jim's note concerning George Chao. I trust the response will be su^ciently general to do some good.' 
"AI Foos writes from his Foos Paint & Ap­pliance Co. of Nor^valk, Ohio: 'If anything can be done to get George evacuated out of China, call on me again. A swell guy!' 
"Ed Ahlering, of 17 Midway Court, Ham­mond. Indiana, didn't send any word with his donation so let's hear from you later, Ed. 
"Frank Howland sent me the silent treat­ment, too. but he is general agent of the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Com­pany in Memphis. Tennessee, according to the envelope. 
"Walter Metzgcr has a new address like many others in the alumni files. It's 4319 
N. Ashland, Chicago. His health is good and he sends his best to the gang and a dollar to George Thanks. Wally. 
"Mike Neitzel's 'telegram-like note' from Boise, Idaho: 'Here's my buck. We are all sorry for George. All goes well out here, best wishes.' 
"The next one has to remain a secret but thanks a million. Father, for that donation. 
"Raymond Sobatzki of Carver Hall. Frank­ford. Philadelphia, was \vithout news, so you owe us one, Ray. but thanks anyhow. 
"Art McMulIcn of 210 Bust Oakland Ave­nue. Columbus, Ohio, was the same as Ray— no comment. 
"Ben Kesting, our Lucas county engineer in Toledo, (second term) hopes 'that George gets enough to get straightened out.* 
Anse Miller of Virginia Metal Manufactur­ing Company writes: 'No interesting news from Roanoke. Just leaving on my vacation. Hope you receive a good return.* Almost called Anse on my own vacation from Natural Bridge. Virginia, but the telephone 'black-out* on Sunday afternoon way down South pre­vented me. Sorry I couldn't say hello. Anse. 
"Andrew Wolski, 4515 South Christiania. Chicago, corrected his address on Jim's letter but no other word than this. 
"Karl J, Connell writes on U. S. Depart­ment of Agriculture stationery: " *Jlm Armstrong's letter of August 2, 1039. was forwarded to me and has just reached 

October, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
me. I was sorry to hear of George Chao's sad plight in China, and I am gladly for­warding the enclosed dollar bill to help him along.* 
" 'It seems a long time since *25 and I have not seen many of the fellows in the last eight months, even the Twin City gang. I am work­ing for the Farm Security Administration and headquarter out of Crookston. I hope to be able to get down for a football game this fall.' 
" 'Give my best regards to any of the fel­lows that you may run across-' 
"Bill Meniman also has a different address than the Alumni office, 645 Ridgeway Avenue, Rochester, New York, but no news. Bill is with the Camera Works of the Eastman Kodak Co. 
"Bill Seidensticker has his own contracting business in Columbus and it was good to bear from him, but we hope to hear more from him later. 
"John Bartley» of the Reynolds & Company, 120 Broadway, New York, crashes through with his contribution and this: 'I knew the little fellow pretty well and I am awfully sorry he is having so much trouble. Your namesake. Bill Hurley, was here last month and I had a very enjoyable visit with him.' I guess that just about accounts for bachelor Bill's activities in the East, having heard from Bill himself. Bob Hurley and Jack Sheehan. John sent 25 cents in stamps along with his dollar. I'll use his stamps to write to George. 
"Professor Pasqoale Pirchio, of 125 East Cripe Street, South Bend and N. D., sent his dollar but no news. 
"James Hammond, of 1350 S. Brook Street, Louisville, was the same as Pasquale but his envelope indicates he is with Gamble Brothers Lumber Company. 
"Clarence J. Kaiser, of 1907 Houstonia. Royal Oak. Michigan, is w*ith Reichhold 
- Chemicals. Inc., of Detroit, according to his envelope. 
"With Paul Romwcber*s contribution (Batesvillc, Indiana) and my own, the secre­tary as of September 1 has heard from 70 members. An even $100 collected was mailed September 2, care of the National City Bnnk of New York to its Shanghai office. Any contributions are still welcome from the fel­lows who forgot or overlooked mailing their bit. We win send George a 'second edition* in November." 
The alumni secretaries, as w'ell as South Bend barrister Bill Voor and other local no­tables, saw Tom Coman and his Washington, 
D. C„ family for a couple of pleasant days this summer. The Comans and their three children were returning from Chicago on their vacation trip. Tom covers the active and important labor front for the Associated Press. Attorney Voor, incidentally, was again one of the "regulars" at the summer's Lay Retreat. 
Don Miller, of whom you may have heard, is a candidate for judge of the municipal court in Cleveland. 
1 Q2f« James A, Konan. 127 N. Dearborn 
A£7«.v gj^ Chicago, 111. From Mr. Ronan, the missing man: Mr. Dooley: "^Vhen I promised you two weeks ago that 
you might expect a dozen lines on September 
15, this unseasonable hundred^degree heat was 
certainly not anticipated. But heat and hu­
midity to the contrary notwithstanding, a promise is a promise and a deadline is never affected by weather conditions. So here you are. 
"Leaving your place of business, I hurried to Detroit's Statler Hotel, expecting to give a little business to Joe Shea. Mr. Shea, I was told, was enjoying a well-earned vacation fishing in the Canadian wilds. If you can conjure up a mental image of Shea fishing, go ahead—I can't. 
"Returning to Chicago, I learned of the presence of our old pal, Gerry McDermott. The silver-maned Louisville outdoor advertis­ing executive and his personable wife came out to share our Sunday night ham sandwich and we had a pleasant confab. Gerry tells me that Frank Brcsltn conducts a very satis­factory law practice in Louisville, and that John Roth is likewise engaged in trade in the best-known city in Kentucky. 
"George O'Day reports from Cleveland that neither the arrival of his new son (see 'Birth Announcements') nor the loss of several molars has disturbed his golf game. His reported scores of 76 and 77 on successive days must have had Pat Canny talking to himself. 
"It was a pleasant surprise to learn (from that never-failing source of information, the Alumni Office) that Joe Friske is now prosecuting attorney in Saginaw, Michigan. It is nice to have someone who may give you a hand on the far end of a collection matter. Speaking of outstanding legal lights among our classmates, did you know that John Wal­lace was elected city judge in Calumet City, Illinois? 
"John Sweeney stopped in the other day; but I missed seeing him. "When last socn, John was the picture of good health, and as usual the last word in sartorial perfection. 
"Early in the summer I had a phone call from Paul Brodcrick. He was passing through town on his way to Los Angeles to a conven­tion of Warner Brothers. Inc., whom he rep­resents in Boston. Paul promised to use his influence to discourage the further distribution of double features; but apparently %vas un­successful. 
"Before he left on his vacation Joe Rigali was planning a two-month visit to his com­pany's quarries and factories in Italy. But Hitler spoiled the trip, I imagine; and on a recent report from John Tuohy, it appears that Joe has postponed his junket until fur­ther notice. 
"Two weeks from Saturday (as this is 

written) is the date of the Purdue game. 
I'll be seeing you I Perhaps some of the boys 
will 'check in' for the season's opener and 
we can dig up some material for a few para­.graphs next month." 
The Dooley travels of the summer brought happy reunions with some of the '26 lads and news about others. The Fallon-Gelson duo helped the New York club celebrate N. D. Day at the Fair on July 27, and Fallon was last seen picking off (when he was lucky) every fifth bird in one of the shooting empor­iums in the amusement area. Down at the Batter^' one noontime I ran smack into Ed Hargan. who was out airing his legal knowl­edge; his office is close by. Dan O'Neil. '25. had heard from Wilbur McElroy, the Norwalk. Connecticut, architect, but there was no spe­cial news of Mac—none, at least, that I can recall now. 
Vic Yawman generously lunched ond hauled me all around Buffalo and out to his cottage on I>ake Eric. Dennis O'Neill, of Cleveland. 
and his wife—and maybe his children, too ­had been in Buffalo a short time before on the way back from a vacation trip, and there had been a Yawman-O'Neill get-together there. O'Neill was in South Bend a little later. 
I had an all-too-short chat with Johnny Gallagher in Cleveland, in his legal-financial office, and heard about Chadc Hooncy* insur­ance tycoon, and other local '26€rs, but there was no devastating dirt. 
The Dooleys spent a super week-end with the John O'Donnells, down in Maysville. Kentucky, and gazed with awe at the high-water marks left by that latest Ohio river flood. John helps to operate one of the local daily papers —there are two of them, no less—and he and his wife live up admirably to the best tradi­tions of Kentucky hospitality. 
We found Johnny Shottse. hard at work in his family's Lafayette Hotel in Lexington, and, with his help, we saw some of the best horse farms in the Lexington region. John is still keeping up on his golf, he said. 
Joe Sexton, the legal light and state legis­lator, and Charlie Mason, the telephone mag­nate, helped to make a club luncheon in In­dianapolis very pleasant and profitable. Joe is again helping the Haley-Jones team by handling football, tickets in Indianapolis. 
I spent many hours with Johnny Ryan in Pittsburgh when I was there in early Septem­ber for the golf party of the Western Penn club. John is doing a grand job of being president of the club this year. He has a boy and a girl, and the former can already lick the tar out of the old man. John had just had a telephone call from Andy Sleish. who w-as in, with shoes on. from the hills of Weston. West Virginia, but Andy couldn't make the party. 
When Tom Coroan, *25, was in South Bend this summer we talked of Ray Keiscr and, if this aging memory still serves, the former Roman (New York) is still doing newspaper work in Detroit. Tom said that Bill Moore is still in Washington, D. C, in government work. Not this summer, but last. Joe Harvey was down from Chicago a couple of times, once with the noted Walter "Trotsky" Trohan (Trochanowski). Washington correspondent of the equally noted "Chicago Tribune." How is business, Harx'ey? Seen on the campus, at a distance: Ray Downs and Vince Gonlet. sep­arately. 
Congratulations to the '26ers (see, "Mar­riages." this issue) who took the long step this summer: Charlie Dongherty, Austin Hall and John Leahy. And under "Spotlight Alum­ni" in this issue, be sure to read about the national honors heaped upon Lew Marphy. of South Bend. 
Ronan can use some super help in trying to keep this '26 center alive and active. How about crashing through with a few letters to him ? Bert Dunne, for instance, -who gets around a lot from his spot out there in San Francisco, and Mai Knans, who can report on the Detroit area and on the engineers. Jim Whelan has been silent for years and there is plenty doing in New Jersey and near­by New York. Herb Bart used to get around the Middle West a lot. out of his Chicago bond office, and probably still does. Father Joe Toomey, in Binghamton, New York, is right in the center of a lot of N. D. activity and Father Hemic Conghlin sees a lot up in the Twin Cities, too. Why not load down the Ronan mailman pronto, boys? 
We'll be having—believe it or not—our 15­year reunion a year from next June. A good column here every issue can do wonders to­ward building a whopping attendance. The 
32 The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1939 
showinE in 1936 was so poor that we'll have to redeem ourselves in 1941. The class of 1925 is already planninfT huge things for next June, too. and we'll do better, of course. 
Cheerio! Say an extra one, when you think of it, for Jake Purceirs hlithe soul. He died on Jpnuary 15 (in case you missed the story in the ALUMNUS). 
This note is from Jack Saunders, '31, of Boston, but it concerns men of '26: Jack saw Tommj- FarrcII, Kcman WinRcrtcr, Ed­die DuKffan, Dan O'XciU and Larrj- Kecfe when he was down in New York and New Jersey not long ago. The Managing Ed. saw 0*N"eiII, too — but, unfortunately, no other *26ers — when he dropped into Newark for an evening in late July to discuss the Alumni Association's placement program. Dan is president of the New Jersey Club this year. He and Keefc were to take off a week later for vacation with the O'NeiU family 'way out in big, rough Montana. 
Joe Friskc, prosecuting attorney up in Sag­inaw, Michigan, was down for the Lay Ke­treat this summer and doubtless will also be down for some of the football fiestas this fall. 
1927 *'"**!•'» ^^' Boland, Afhlefic Office, Nfiire Damr, Indiana. 
En route to a General Electric convention. Jack Hicok and his wife, of Minneapolis, were on the campus on August 12. It was the first time back in 12 years for Jack. He is sales councillor for G.E. 
1928 ^'*>"»** '^- Buckley. 908 E. Cedar St., 
** South Bend, Indiana. 
From Louie Buckley, who (from South Bend again) labors on so effectively for the class: 
"I was greeted on my return to South Bend by a request from the Alumni Office for copy for the October ALUMNUS. Time does not permit the parsing of the buck, as I hai-e done very successfully for the past two years. I was tempted to ask our Con­gressman, Bob Grant, to dash off a column but Bob has been so busy making speeches since his return from Washington that I did not think it would l>e fair to make such a re­quest on short notice. It is unfortunate that Jim Armstrong and Bill Doolcy are not that considerate of your secretary. 
"Bill Jones returned from a western trip and reported that he saw Joe Brannon in Sacramento. California, where he is managing a Sears Roebuck store. 
"I met Bob Fogerty in Washington just before T left for South Bend and found that he had been doing re'=earch work on his Ph.D­thesis during the summer at the State De­partment a block from my office. Bob is teaching history at St. Thomas College in St, Paul and is completing his work on this Ph.D. at Minnesota TJniversltj'. 1 was surprised to find that he is still among the rapidly declin' ing numher of single men in the class. 
"Frank Donovan is in the wholesale drug business in Chicago and is living at 7938 South Hermitage Avenue there. Frank and I were in Elkhart the other day and saw^ eur barrister friend, Tom Happer. 
"George Couo' did such a fine job covering commencement in the June issue that one would think that he was a product of Dr. Cooney's Journalism Department. I am sure you will all agree that he should be given the job of reporting commencements every June. Since I expect to be here next June. George and I win settle our political differences so that he w-ill not have to resort to faking issue with me in the column as he did in the June issue." 
"It has been two years since I inaugurated the plan of selecting guest writers each month for this column. During that time the follow­ing men have come through with exceptionally good class notes: Jack Mullen* Howie Phalin. Frank Hegart>', John Fagan, Dick Phelan, Jack Wingcrtcr, Bob Hamilton, Joe Morrissey, Chcl Rice, Andy Boyle and George Conry. I have tried to select men in various professions and in different sections of the country in order to make the column as representative as possible and intend to follow this procedure again this year and hope that I receive the fine cooperation that I have during the past two years. 
"Turk Meincrt could always be depended upon to come through when callefl upon 11 years ago so I am sure he will not fail us as guest writer next month. Drop him a line at S5 Grand Avenue. Etna, Pennsylvania, so he will be able to take up where George Cour>' left off in the June issue. We will be expect­ing to have your copy here by October 15, Turk." 
Botts Crowley expected to have a big season as an umpire in the International League, under Frank Shaughnessy, '03, president of the league, when he wrote in the early sum­mer. He had seen Sam Colanisso in Newark and added: "If you find out who those two birds were who were yelling at me the open­ing day in Jersey Cit>-, tell them to drop into the dressing room." 
Botts sent along a poem about Notre Dame football written by an Atlanta nun whom he had met on the train a year ago. Unfortu­nately, space is too tight to permit use of the verses here. 
Floyd Scarcr, trust ofTiccr of the First Bank & Trust Company in South Bend and exem­plary treasurer of the St. Joseph Valley N. D. Club, has been named a member of the trust committee of the Indiana Bankers Association. 
One of the famous •28ers cncountersd by the Managing Ed. this summer was Joe Brcig, ex. - "Scholastic" editor and campus writer de luxe. Joe is going to town on the editorial staff of the Pittsburgh "Sun-Tele­graph" and is the author of "The New Sin." a highly-regarded play produced a few months ngo by the Pittsburgh unit of the Catholic Theater Guild. Joe is writing steadily in other fields and has appeared recently in "The Commonweal," "Columbia." and "The Sign," among other journals. He is married and has 
two children. More about him later. 
Cannonball Bob Hamilton, secretary of the New York Club, gets out the horn for '28 thus; "We are entitled to do a little crowing. Our class made the highest total contribution to the Rockne Memorial w*tth the exception of 1906. With the exception of six classes since 1S90, we more than doubled the contribution of any other class. Only four classes had a greater number of contributors; percentage­wise we exceeded these four as we had fewer graduates than they did. Not bad. boys, for a gang out during the last 10 years—the Dark Ages.** 
Radioman Jack Mullen of Benton & Bowles, New York, corrects George Conrj"'* statement, in the June issue, that he is the author of "Myrt & Marge." Se^ Jack: "I have never been the author of Myrt & Marge, although r directed the show for more than two years. It doesn't go on the air at night and the sponsor is not Wrigley. Since January 1. 1937, these ladies have been on the air in the daytime for the Colgate-Palmolive-Peet program know^n as Concentrated Super Suds." 
When Jack wrote he had had lunch shortly before with Les Grady. '27. Les is with a firm which speclaliTcs in publicity for radio stars. 
1929 J****!*** ^- McXamara, Attorney Gen­eral Office, Indianapolis, Indiana. 
From Joe McNamara, 
"By the time that your eyes rest upon this cold clear t>*pc you will have received a Twenty Niner 'Who's Who' blank. If the class co­

' operates in the manner in which we believe it will, we hope to utilize the information re­flected by these blanks to publish an up-to-the­minute directory of 'Who's Who* of the Class, presenting a comprehensive view of each mem­ber's experience. This is the first time that any class of Notre Dame has attempted a ten-year survey of this type. We believe that it will be helpful to the members of the class, to the Alumni Association, and to prospective employers. 
"Because of the very nature of this project 'lime is of the essence.' as the Lawyers say \Vhat we know of many of the members of the class is merely daresay. Consequently, we must rely upon you for accurate, timely information so that the 'AVho's A\'ho* will be accurate in everj- respect. Don't be modest: so please fill in and mail your questionnaire immediately. Thanks. 
"Now that the hay fever sneazon is over and the college-bound trains are twitching, an eastern swing would seem to be in order: You secretary had always thought that that Great Neck, Ix)ng Island, was merely an im­aginary land comparable to Zenda and Grau­stark, dedicated to the use of humorists and columnists. This summer, however. I discov­ered that if you want to get anywhere at all at Broadlawn in the village of. Kings Point, Great Neck. Long Island, you'd better know-Jim Curo". A bit of sleuthing has revealed that, after counting his sn^duation presents, Curry joined up with a pea canneo' in Wis­consin and in about November. 1929. con­nected with W. H. Edgar and Son, Inc.. :n Detroit—first as a clerk in that sugar broker­age business and later (about May. 1930) as a salesman. In the fall of 1930. Jim was transferred to New York where the company had just opened a new branch office and ped­dled sugar all over Manhattan, Bronx, Brook­lyn, Queens. Long Island, and New Jersey, with an occasional jaunt through New Eng­land and Pennsylvania. While working on 
this job, Jim purchased a 60-acre tract of waterfront property in Great Neck and so resigned from the sugar business to become the president of the Brimar Corporation, which is one of the titles he stiH holds. Grimar is in the building game, erecting and selling the better type of home with prices ranging from §20,000.00 up. Curry also be­came president of Marbt Corporation, whose main holdings are the controlling Interests of the George Close Candy Company of Cam­bridge. Massachusetts. In 1932. Jim convinced Kay Bland that new names are effective in the promotion of new worlds, to the extent that she changed hers to Currj*—on December 27, the situs being the Log Chapel. 
"Jim said that he ran into Tom 'Mickey' Qnalters. the President's bodyguard. He re­ports that Tom is quite heavy but Is looking very well for a married man. . . . Jim O'Con­nor is reported with the commercial depart­ment of the New York Telephone Company: not married yet. and no signs of it, so far . . . Gerald Joseph Crawley, of black eye fame, is with the Lumberman's Mutual Insur­ance Company in Boston. He is the same old Crawley of 1925-1929, except that he has a few more gray hairs at the temples which are quite impressive . . . Curry hadn't seen Charley Colton but understood that he is the 

October, 1939 
managor of the University Club in Boston . . . Joe Jackym is looking very well . . . Phil Cenedella drops in on Jim about every year to boast about his two younpcsters. Phil has been very successful in the contracting busi­ness and is at present doini; some work.on contract for the state of New York. He mar­ried Sis Kandley of Chicago . . . Pat Canny is still working on the railroad (the Erie legal department) . . . Jack Peter Farr of Rome, New York, is now with the American Tobacco Company . . . Walter Donnelly is a very successful lawj'er up in the Bronx . . . Karl Kaschewski is the chief counsel for Grace Lines . .". Joe Lord! can be seen at the N.Y.A.C. Joe is in the coal and oil busi­ness and on the side is a ranking Class A 
squash player. 
"Up at Lockport, New York. Joe Angdino is one of the substantial citizens of the type who really means a great deal to any com­munity. Joe is well thought of in the Canal Section's Superintendent's office where he is employed, and Mrs. Angelino. who is the plot of his life story, will open the door for you at his home at 171 Ontario Street in Lock-port. Joe is quite proud of his son, whom he has already enrolled in the Class of 195S. 
"Having passed through the north woods country. I can understand why it is that one must wait until about the fishing or hunting season is over before expecting an answer from Ivan LcBIanc. Ivan is the leading young lawj-er of his county and handles his growing law business from an office in the Steele Building, Alpena, Michigan. Ivan reports that Joe Goddcyne of Bay City finished build­ing a new school in Alpena about a year ago and since that has procured a contract for a new hospital . . . Pete Br>'sscIbout recently left Alpena after spending a year supervising the construction of the school. Pete is doing very well with Goddeyne . . ^ Pat McDougall is still with the Detroit 'Free Press' and is do­ing very well .. . Ed McClsmon is with the Traveler's Insurance Company in Detroit.'* 
The Chicago office of the American Bar Association announced in August that Norm Hartzcr of South Bend had been reappointed state chairman for Indiana of the junior bar conference. 
Joe Jachym was a member of the coaches* staff of the Detroit American League base­ball team during the past summer and had reunions with Attorney Tony Kcgowicz on his Chicago visits, according to scouting reports from John Bcrgan, *.tl. 
Lou Haney {Obligato) writes from Lyons, New York, that he was admitted to the New York state bar in March and to the United States court of the western district of New-York in April. He adds: 
*'You might be interested to know that my application to be admitted to practice in the United States district was rnade on motion of Arthur Curran. of Rochester, N. Y.. an 
N. D. man, and before another N. D. man, Hon. Harold Burke, the judge in that court, which sort of brought back N. D.days. 
". . . Mr. and Mrs. Eugene A. ShUtz. ex. '2S, of Newark, had an addition to their family, March 4, a prospect for the team, Richard Lee. Richard K. O'Brien. ex> *29, is located in Lyons, as a director for the WPA. 
"Arthur KIcfaker. *34, is at home in New­ark, associated there with Bloomer Bros. Co. Albert Cowlcs, '31, and Bob Sopcr. *3I. both are married, and working and living in New­ark. As for the Haneys, the law work ia 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
expanding a bit. with^ an office in Lyons, only six miles from home (Newark)." 
1 Q^ n Rttbert ][ellninj7 Humboldt Baildinfr, **'*' " St. Louis, Missouri. 
From Bob HcIIning: 

"In my last open letter to you and the Class of Thirty. I offered to buy a good cold glass of beer for any fellow-classman who stopped ofT here in St. Louts while on his vacation this summer. Evidently they avoided St. Louis this year, because w-ith the exception of Jerry Paikcr, no one even called me, and Tve leen here all summer. 
"Jerry didn't have an opportunity to sample our best grade of beer with me cither. He merely had time to call my office, between planes while en route from New York to Cali­fornia. Your secretary did not have a chance to talk to Jerry, and consequently, we missed out on a lot of news on Men of Thirty of New York and all points East. 
"However, assuming that he is back in New York now, after a vacation on the West Coast and a trip across the country and back again, here is an invitation to Jerry to give us a report on the 'Thirties* whom he con­tacted during the summer. 
"The St. Louis heat became too much for Jim Rigncy who was here, and managed to te transferred back to_ Chicago by the Scott Paper Co. 
"On the other hand Don Malloy of Chicago came here to capitalize on our heat, by joining the forces of the FalstafT Brewing Co., of St. Louis. He is doing special promotional work and likes it very much. Don can be reachetl at the Coronado Hotel. 
"Larrj- Cotter has just been transferred to the Detroit office of O'Meara and Hills, archi­tects. We have not lenmetl his new address as yet. but look him up through the firm if you are in Detroit. 
"So much for the gossip. Between now and June, your secretary will spend most of his time and effort preparing your Ten Year Re-Union during the next Commencement week­end. The Class of Thirty will have a regis­tration desk at the Notre Dame headquarters in Cleveland during the Navy game week-end —in Pittsburgh during the Carnegie Tech g:ime week-end—in New^ York during the Army game week-end—and at the Alumni Office on the campus during all football week­ends at Notre Dame. Parlies will be ar­ranged for the 'Thirties' so don't fail to register." 
"Meanwhile, drop me a line." 

Frank Fink, of the stall of "Our Sunday Visitor," Huntington. Indiana, was on the campus this summer for professional discus­sions with some of the local men. 
Joe Rccdy, of the advertising sta^ of the Kansas City "Star." was in South Bend over the July 4 week-end with his wife and talked to one of Prof. Cooncy's summer journalism classes. Joe used to be on the paper in Nevada, Missouri, the home town. 
Bcmic Conroy, the proud papa, turned his beck on New Kensington to attend the golf party of the N. D. Club in Pittsburgh on Sep­tember G. Bernie is in state employment work in New Kensington and hears often from and about Leo Carney, who is district mana­ger of the Erie office of the Pennsylvania State Employment Ser\-ice, having charge of the northeast part of the state. 
33 

lO^I John Bergnn, 83S E. Colfax Avenar. 
* South Bend, Indiana. 

From John Bcrcan. the South Bend scout: 
"The past summer failed to show any startling new*s among the class, numerous letters were sent out but the answers con­taining news of the absentees was very slim. However, we gathered that Emil Telfel "was married during the summer and that his wife and he are now enjoying the spirit of fall in New Orleans, their present home. Bert Mctzser was an early fall visitor to the cam­pus In quest of tickets and to look the 1939 football squad over. He is with the sales department of the Borden Milk Co., Chicago. Larry Mallins also visited the campus this summer and is planning on a big season at Loyola of the South this fall. Frank Mc-Grcal was down during August for the an­nual Laymen*s Retreat. Frank Is practicing law in the Windy City and was recently ap­pointed to membership in the Illinois state boxing commission. 
"The early fall also brought good ol' Austic Boyle to South Bend on his annual vacation from the Crescent City of the South. Ed Mehcrn's Arizona grapefruit company is going fine and he recently placed a carbonic grapefruit drink on the market. Frank Hoi* land is now* associated with his father in the coal business in Chicago. Len Horan is holding an important position with the parole t)oard of the state of New York and is resid­ing in Albany. Dr. Francis E- Draves is now a lieutenant in the U. S. Army Medical Corps and Is stationed in Detroit and is still a bachelor, contrary to adverse reports. Jack Shively is the new Red Cross chairman for the South Bend district. 
"Rev. Philip Schaerf, C.S.C., is the new chaplain of the Glbault Home for Boys at Terre Haute, Indiana, and would welcome a visit from any member of the class in the vicinity. Rev. James Yonnr, C.S.C., has been given a year's leave of absence from his du­ties at the University and is studying at the Pius X College of Ecclesiastical Music, New-York City. 
"The Paul Koprowskis of South Bend are the parents of a daughter bom this summer. Phil Agamy is the mtd*west representative of a LaCro?se. Wisconsin, brewing company. The Bill McNultys' little boy has a little sis­ter. Frank Kersjes was down to the Lay­men's Retreat on the campus this past sum­mer and is still going strong in the paint business. Tom O'Connor, the Indianapolis flash, has forsaken the wholesale grocery business and is now with General Motors Trucks. 
"Am including a letter possibly from the member most distant from the campus. Father Robert Patrick, CS.C., who writes, 
Ranikong Mission, P. O. Bagmara. 
Mymensingh District, Bengal, India. 
August 5. 1939. 

Dear John: " 'Much like all good 'Slcrs I have an eagle-eye when the ALUMNUS shows up. for any report of the men of that class. In the last Commencement number, which reached roe last evening from the mail pouch of the runner between Bagmara, P. O., and the railway station some thirteen miles south of cere, I noticed a little appeal for a response from some of the absentee adventurers of the class of '31.' 
" 'Your truly is situated on a hill in the northernmost section of Mymensingh District. just on the border of Assam. "Bagmara" means "a tiger was killed." And there are 
rhe Notre Dame Alumnus October. 1939 
still plenty left up here in case there are any adventurous '31 fellows who would like to have a skin for their hearth/ 

" *The other day, while out on a sick call. I came across a group of Garos direct from the Hills of Assam, who were, according to their report, American Baptists. ITiey get that name from a group of American Baptist missionaries who have been working in the Garo Hills for the last hundred years. They were taken back a bit, when they learned that I also was from the States . . . they had heard that only Baptists roamed the New World.' 
" 'This letter is no S.O.S. for help, just an answer to your appeal. Of course, help is never refused especially when it is desig­nated for the support of Catechists . . . native apostles who like the Apostle Philip who brought Nathauael to Christ, bring their na­tive countrj-men to the same Master.' 
"It would be fine for the class to contribute a small purse for Father Patrick and forward it on to him to further his great work in India. The secretary will be happy to act as agent and forward all donations so as to reach him by Christmas. 

"The usual football reunions will be held in South Bend in the Oliver Hotel in conjunction with the smokers sponsored by the St. Joseph Valley alumni, and in New York on the e\'e of the Army game. Bud Touhy, John Bums. Dave Nash, Ed Mahan and John Lisicki will be in charge for '31 in New York. 
"Many of the class will be saddened by the death of Jimmy Doj-le of Auburn, New York, who died there in September after a brief illness. Although Jim was a science major and spent a great deal of time in the labora­tories, he acquired a legion of friends on the campus by his cheerful disposition and pleas­ant manner. A Mass was offered for the re­pose of his soul on the campus at the request of the class. 
"Jack Skcllcy of Belle\'ue. Ohio, is slowly recovering from a very serious illness at his home. Many of his old friends might drop Jack a note, as he will be confined to the hos­pital for some time. His address is 119 Euclid Ave., Belle\Tie. 
"Jerome J, Crowley, IH, arrived on Septem­ber 18 in South Bend. His dad is making boastful remarks about -the Notre Dame team of 19G2 and how the boy will be scoring the touchdowns. Luke Brandon is in the account­ing department of the Bendix Products Cor­poration. South Bend. Marty Brill is begin­ning his fourth year of coaching at LaSalle College, Philadelphia, and hopes to renew many old acquaintances at the Army game." 
Vice-president Dan Halpin, of , Dictograph Products Company, Inc., N. Y. C, sent along these welcome notes in July: 
"Harry Gnglcr, '32, of New Rochelle, was married on June 21. Tony Santio, '.12. was married in April, and lives in Forest Hills. Eddie O'Connor. '32, has four children and lives on the Island. 
"Gordon Salmon. '31, is on a trip to Cali­fornia. Mart^ic Schwartz. '31. has eight­month-old twans—a boy and jdrl. Doc Nigro, *14, is hale and hearty in Kansas City. Ed "Tops* Stephan, '32, was graduated this year, cum laude. from Harvard and is with a New York law firm. Tom 'Kitty* Gorman. '33. who is line coach at Creighton under March Schwartx, says they will have a great season, 
"Don Nelmes. '32, is working with the Leo­pold Construction Company at "Whitestone. Long Island. Jim McCann, '33, of New Ro­chelle, is Westchester distributor for Dicto­graph Products Co., Aconsticon Division. Joe Deeb. '31, is U. S. District Attorney in Grand Bapids, Michigan. Harry Langdon. '31. is with Dictograph in Dallas." 
After spending t^vo years sup2r\*ising Old Dutch Cleanser sales in Michigan. Indiana, Kentucky and Tennessee, and traveling t^sn­tinually, John Wcibler is now settled down in Chicago, having super\ision of that O.D.C. market. 
1Q90 Uerbert Giorgio, 9005 188th Street, ^^^^ Hollis. U L, N. Y. 
Your good pal, Eddie O'Malley, secretary to Father O'Hara, and chairman of the five-year reunion a couple of years ago, got his law degree last June and just recently passed the Illinois bar exam. 
Jim Simmons, of Quanah, Texas, was on the campus on June 20 for the first time since he was graduated. 
1Q09 Donuld AMsc, n o Pleasant Street, x.70«7 JoJiet, Illinois. 
Joe Farrell, '15, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania, kindly sent word that Bob Johnston, of Har­risburg, recently a chemist for the great Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, had left the state's employ and started out for himself as a consultant in chemistry. Joe added: *'Bob has familiarized himself with the State's re­quirements and will be able to assist his clients in meeting the Commonwealth's speci­fications. 
"Father Matthew Walsh visited this locality last week. He and Dr. Joseph L. Rafter spent a day at Gettj-sburg." 
Nick Cfaolis, South Bend barrister, is the new secretary of the reorganization committee of the Northern Indiana Railway, local street car line­
1934 ^* ^ob<^'^ Giihill, Athletic Associa­tion, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
(With the news of Jim Moscow's entry into Mundelein, the ALUMNUS, feeling that the seminary "^vas a mutually disadvantageous center of class news, cast its editorial eye about for a temporary successor—and there, sitting within easy reach, was the informed and voluble ex-chairman of the Five-Year Reunion. M. Robert Cahill, who knows, from a quick glance at the ticket applications, just where to find, in any stadium, the various brothers of '34. "What more natural—gentle­men, we give you, yes, you take him, — Cahill.) 
In extension of the news above, it should be stated that the ex-secretary and ex-Chicago insurance man, Moscow, can be reached at St. Mary's of the Lake Seminary, Mundelein, Illinois, the training spot for the Chicago archdiocese. 
Ed Krause, new line coach at Holy Cross College. Worcester. Massachusetts, under Head Coach Joe Sheckctski. '33, says that Jim Leonard owns and runs an asparagus farm in Pennsylvania when he isn't coaching football at St. Francis College, Loretto, Pennsylvania. 
George Blaine, in sending in his contribution to the good old Alumni Association, said that he had just been appointed director of health and physical (education and director of ath­letics at Salem High School, Salem. New Jer­sey, and that he would have as his assistant this year Chock Theiwn, *39. 
Stan Rcnsberger, on vacation in July and August from his duties with Singer Sewing Machine in Sau Paulo, South America, spent most of his time in the home diggings in Mishawaka and came out to the campus occa­sionally for chats ^vith the Alumni Office, Lon Tlioniton. '29, and others. Art Dcnchficid, '28, is superintendent for Singer in Sau Paulo, and Charlie Litty is a Singer man in Buenos Aires. 
John Holland of New York City dropped into the Alumni Office for a chat on Sep­tember 1. 
At last there is news of the eminent Clyde Lewis, who finished at Har\'ard Law last June. Clyde is now in the law olTices of Feinberg and Jerry, Plattsburgh, New York, and wants lots of contact with Notre Dame and his old N.D. pals. Academic pressure and outside work have kept him pretty well bushed since 1934, he says. Get after him. Cahill. 
From M. Robert Cahill, a swell scout: 

"Well, boys, cold-cuts or not, it looks like I'm the new class secretary, whether you or I like it. But first, to a most deserving, long-suffering, right guy—Jim Moscow—our sincere wishes for a long and happy life in the priesthood, which Jim has started toward in a seminary near Chicago. As a priest, Jim vnll really he a round peg in a round hole, and nil of us. I know feel that he merits the best in this life and after. 
*'And now to the business at hand. First of all, dear classmates, this column for the fall will be brief, for my duties are many and varied as secretary to Elmer Layden. and if you want to see your name in print, send it in to me along with some news of the other *34ers. Secondly, for those of you who will seize on the above information as a lead-pipe entree, the Army game is sold out. 
"Bill O'Brien, of Bridgeport, Connecticut tells me that he is the pop of William, Jr., bom last month, I believe—the first O'Brien heir. Bed Forrest of the same town telts me that his cousin. Miss Winifred Hanley. who has been teaching at St. Mary's will marry Frank O'Donnell of South Bend, an Irishman Notre Dame missed. 
"Bob Hamilton wrote the other day. He's in the home town of Racine, sales manager of the Dumore Co., makers of electric tools. Believe I saw Mike Yribcrry at Mass on the campus last Sunday. Missed him afterwards, but suppose he is up from Peru, South Amer­ica, to give his wife a visit with her folks in South Bend. 
"At Smith, whom you will all remember as the successful dance promoter along about Cotillion times, is the president of the N. D. Club of Indianapolis, and a most active one. Jimmie Dnnnigan stopped in just before school opened. He looks the same and is practicing law in New York City, I believe. Has three boys. 
"Spent a week with Vince Reishman in Charleston, West Virginia, last summer. He was married in April. While there I saw Bin Kenney, who is in a real drug store with his father—no soda fountain, no silk hose or golf balls—^just drugs. Also saw Lon Zontini. '40. who was working in the State Capitol. I saw the Capitol, too, from every angle, thanks to Reishman! 
"Bob Kelly, South Bend. '34 baseball man­
October, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ager, and his wife will drive to New York for the Army game. Lock up the silver, boys. 
"I am sorry this stuft is so disconnected and not well prepared, but I haven't much in­formation to start off with. Please write me. gents, at the Athletic Oflice, and maybe w-e can ^%'hip up some information for our mutual benefit. 
"Oh, yes—Jack Egan, formerly of Spring­field. Massachusetts, and the Glee Club, is entering the Third Order of Franciscans in September. He wrote me thus this summer, and wanted all of you to know in case you were wondering why you hadn't heard much from him. Our very best. Jack, and drop a line when you can. You and Moscow, now that you have the inside track, should grease the skids a bit for us outside the pale." 
1935 *'™"'**>'" C. Hochreiter, 530 Saint Peter St.. New Orleans, Ixiuisiamv. 
From Franklyn C. Hochreitcr, your eminent representjitive, comes this: 
"Here we are again, fellas—not too much to start out .the fifth season, but then things were slow during the summer. I,et*s make this the only small column this year. It's the fifth anniversary of the class of '35—we want to make it a banner year all the way through. 
•What do you say to renewing ole friends and acquaintances and getting them pepped up for the first official reunion of the outfit? The earlier we start the bigger the turnout. So let's get going right now. The scribe will be close at hand to the campus for most of the year and maybe until June. He returned from his vacation to find that a scholarship was awaiting him at the University of Chica­go for the coming year in Social Service Ad­ministration, and he will be there October 1. Our address will come later. Though we hope to finish up the work by March and then return south to recuperate for the June round­up, we may be there until June and then will come right on for the reunion. But w-ith Prexic Proctor and head-man Armstrong we hope to be able to map something memorable for you. In the meantime our home address remains the same here in New Orleans where Mrs. Scribe will hold forth while we are gone. 
"Now to the summer and what it brought to our cars and eyes in the way of news. First of all a letter that came along early in June. It was from Jack Slattern* and post­marked Fort Wayne. Jack had clippings to prove his points. We enjoyed the epistle, fella, and we're sorry that it took so long to pass on the good news. 
"It.scems that June was a very lucky month for Jack as he joined the investment firm of Leonard J. Fertig and Company as consulting analyst and director of the research depart­ment. Nice going for another '35er! But there is more! The clippings also told of the approaching wedding of Miss Anna Durkin and John A. Slattcry. It was booked for 10 
a.m. on July 1 in St. Joan of Arc church, Indianapolis. The happy event is a matter of history now. Jack, but here is the class' very best for happiness and good luck. 
"There were other '35ers at that wedding. Jack Flanagan of Chi was the best man, and the ushers were Al Ravarino and Joe Argus. Joe and his sister came through with a dinner for the bride and groom on June 17. . 
"Then, checking through the 'marriage' col­umn in the June ALUAINUS we noted the following of the crowd who 'stepped off' dur­ing the early months of '39. Here are official felicitations for: Tom Owen and Marguerite Lambert, Log Chapel, May 6; George Barber and Phyllis Muratet Lyons. Oklahoma City, June 15; Jim Bowdrcn and Mary McAIoon,­North Andover, Massachusetts, June 15; John Boyle, ex. '35, and Jane Simmons, Gary, April 29: John J. Ryan and Margaret Mullens. Log Chapel. May 25; and Bill Ashenden, ex. '35, and Margaret Catherine Kainey, Chicago, October 1. 
"The night before we left on our northern vacation in June we had a phone call from Charlie Mahar. It seemed Charlie and his brother were driving through. They came down to the apartment and we reminisced for better than an hour. Charlie is with th e WPA in Kansas, in the Division of Opera­tions working put of Norton, Kansas, as an engineer. 
"From Charlie we heard that George Foss is no longer at N.D. but with the Carnegie-Illinois Steel in' Chi as a metallurgist in­spector. Nice going, George! 
"Our vacation plans were changed at the last moment and we did not take the conti­nental tour we anticipated—hence we saw no one. On our return to New Orleans there was a card in our box. It was from Bernard 'Kokey* Doris of the class of '33. A good number of the gang will remember him—at least those of us who lived in Howard the second semester of our freshman year. 'Kokey* was passing through and stopped for a chat. He is with B. H. Ellison Company, an insur­ance and bond firm in Augusta. Georgia. Thanks for the stop. 'Kokey.' 
"There was also a letter from Tom Proctor awaiting us, and it was a pleasant one. for Tom gave us the dope on Commencement week-end. He reported that the '35ers had a very poor showing, but some old standbys turned up. At the time Prexie was thinking of going east for a few weeks with Taucfc Tours, his former summer employment. Don't know if he followed through. His immediate plans were taking him to the Chi wedding of bosom buddy Korzcncski! 
"Though Tom spent most of his time with Ray Oakcs, he did m n into Lon Hruby (who is manager of the General Electric 'Hour of Charm' program), Frank Leonard. Claude Tourck, Joe 'Tiger' Flynn. John Annas, and Mike Shecdy. 
"Among the others on whom Tom reiwrted were: Al Loritsch, who is with the Comptrol­ler of the Currency in Washington, John Foy, (newly married), John Brennan, Tom Owen. Kurt Simon and Bill Ryan. 
"A letter came along from Vincc Gorman shortly after our return and he told us of the '35 crowd at the Trinity Commencement of '39. Besides Vince. who saw his twin sisters off, there wore: Ray Brodcrick, Ed Kilmurray, Al Loritsch, Jim CoUcran and Jini Hill. Each had his own personal reason for attending. Quite a gathering! Vince did himself proud at Cornell Med School last year and continues his work this month. 
"On August 25 a card came from Ray Oakcs out on the west coast. Ray said he was spending his vacation out there and in Can­ada. We appreciated the greetings from Frisco, Ray. 
"That's about that for this month, gang! How about our pulling together for the next eight months now and making this a bang up year for the '35 column and for that first reunion next May 31, June 1 and 2? We arc counting on you." 
In sending in his alumni contribution, Charlie Williamson brought the records up to date on his activities since '35. He writes: "At present the writer is industrial chemist 
at the Hyatt Bearings division of General 
Motors, Harrison. New Jersey. Between May, 
1936, and November. 1938. I was associated 
with the Torrington Company, of Torrington. 
Connecticut. Two years of this time was 
spent as district representative in Dayton, 
Ohio. Between June. 1935, and May. 1936, 
was employed with the Bendix Products Cor­
poration, South Bend, in the capacity of an 
assistant in the development and research 
laboratory." 
Charlie's address for mail is 732 Elm Street, Arlington, New Jersey. 
Jim Corrigan, comes news from Milwaukee, has entered the Jesuit novitiate at Florissant, Missouri. 
Fred Brookmeyer received his J.D. from the School of Law, Loyola University, Chica­go, last June. 
Bill Toomey, a member of the editorial staff of the New York "Daily News" since the fall of 1933, leaped into more fame with an ar­ticle, entitled "We Don't Want Any Trouble." in the July 22 issue of the "New Yorker" magazine. Tom Barry, *25, University pub­licity director, kindly sent along this welcome news about Bill. 
Jim McDevitt is directing a group of Cath­olic college alumni who have organized an Alumni Speakers' Bureau in connection with the recently-opened De Porres Interracial Center in New York City. After a six-week training period the members of the group will discuss the Catholic position on the inter­racial question at parish, club, school and other meetings in the New York area. 
Having received his M.D. at George Wash­ington University last June. Bob Maher is now interning in Mercy Hospital, Pittsburgh, under the eye of Dr. Leo O'Donnell. '17, one of the leading Mercy staff members. 
1 Q^ft John Moran, 61 E. 95tli St., Apt. *, ^^^^ New York City. 
From John Moran. the sleuth: 
"^Vhen Alumni Secretary Jim Armstrong starts mailing those little brown postcards asking for class news again, we know the summer is officially over. So Into the moth balls go the old swimming trunks, after many a dip in the old swimming hole. 
"We dug around a bit trying to scratch up some news, but finally decided all you budding masters of finance, industry, and the profes­sions must have been prostrated by the sum­mer heat. For nary a letter, card, or scrap of information has the ever efficient postman stuffed into the old mail box these many summer days. 
"But, the ALUMNUS must go on. So here we are making an appeal for news, news, news. Not of the European war situation, the virtues of Florida grapefruits as com­pared with the California product, or who is going to run for dog-catcher in 1940. But news about yourselves, the classmates who keep in touch w^ith you. and the Notre Dame men in your part of the country. Grab a pen 
- and some paper (when the boss isn't looking). Knock off a note about yourself today. It's really quite painless . . . almost enjoyable. We'll answer them all . , . if given a little time. 
"Short Shots: Ed Neaher, '37, was married on July 29; Jim Kirby forsook New York's heat for a month's vacation back in Portland. Oregon. Jerry Vocel was in town during July to see the World's Fair. Jerry stopped by for lunch and informed us that he was, at 
36 The Notre Dame Alumnus October. 1939 
that time, still working for the ChicaKo relief administration. 
"Bumped into Dan Sullivan on the street one day. Dan is with Globe FVintinc Co.. 161 Maiden I^nc, New York City. From all accounts he is doinc ver>- nicely. Also ran into John McNeill. '37, down in the financial dictrict. Mac, at that time, was looking for a summer job between sessions at Harvard Law. He reports that the Notre Dame contingent up in Cambridge is doing well. 
"After hearing reports that Luke Ticman was working for International Business Ma­chines at the World's Fair, and meaning to stop by to see him, who should pop in the Hotel Lincoln Bar one evening, but the demon salesman himself. Luke and yours truly were after the same thing .. . a few beers, and, incidentally, also managed to hold an im­promptu *BulI Session.* Luke reports that he finished law school at Notre Dame, but for­sook the chance to wave his arms at a jury, for the opportunity of shoving business ma­chines at Captains of Industry. Although his plans are indefinite after the closing of the Fair on October 31, Luke e\-pects to be still in town for the Army game on November 4. After that, he may be transferred back to Chicago. 
"Mrs. Tieman's little boy, incidentally, isn't devoting all his time to International Business Machines in the big, wicked city. Our atten­tion was called to a clipping from Walter Winchell's Column 'On Broadway,* "under date of September 13. We quote: '. . , "WTiat a re­freshing person to meet and know is Luke Ticman, a Notre Dame boy of about 25. . . . From Chicago—and here for Int. Business Machines at the Fair. . . . His reasoning the other night laundered the mind.' 
"At the September alumni meeting we had th e pleasure of seeing again Bill Walsh, tip and coming legal light of Yonkers, N. Y., Jim Rcill}', Gene Lounsbcrry. Jack Brifton, Joe Schmidt, and Joe Donnino. Also present was Ed Sullivan from upstate. Ed stated that he recently passed his bar exams, but had not yet begun to practice. 
"Jcrr>- Kane. '38, after doing a bit of trav­eling in this countrj* for the Grace interests. has been transferred to Lima, Peru, where he may be reached c-o Pan-American Grace Air­ways. An item from a Broadway column of one of the New York dailies concerned Bill Shakespeare. Bill, it seems, acted as a peace­maker when, during a card game on the Nor­mandie returning from France, one of Holly­wood's star portrayers of tough roles, and a fellow card player started slugging over a bridge game. According to the clipping .. . 'the mediator of the dispute was Will Shake­speare, the football star of Notre Dame, who stood between the combatants and played half­back effectively until the offensive had worn down.' 
"And that about winds up the comings and goings for this issue. Since there may be only one more ALUMNUS before Christmas, we suggest you sit don-n and drop us a line about yourself. At any rate, let us be the first to remind you to do your Yuletide shop-. ping early this year. A little news about yourself will be an early, but none the less welcome, Christmas pre-^ent for the conductor of this masterpiece of journalistic jottings.** 
Nice new papa George Lcyes. 343 29th Avenue, San Francisco, says, in remember­ing the Association financially, that he re­cently met Kenny Morinc, formerly of South Bend, who is the Pacific Coast representative for Lucien Leiong jwrfumes, and doing very well. George also sees Fred Shanley rather often. Fred is an accountant for the fire­man's Fund Insurance Co. in S. F. 
Joe Sullivan, formerly of Chicago, is now with United Airlines in Newark, New Jersey, and residing there at 491 Clifton Avenue. Joe and the Managing Ed. had a pleasant get-together in Newark in late July. 
iqq ? Fuul Foley. 18036 Sclioenhoer Road, Detroit, 3Iichignn. 
From Paul Foley, the laughing lumber lad: 
"At the moment it's hotter than a two-dollar pistol. But the calendar says it crowds the fall equinox and a new crop of belt buckle prospects has enrolled at Notre Dame. That means we take up where we left off prematurely last spring, skirmish around for some scraps of information and wade into another sejison with renewed vigor and a new-ribbon. 
"For this time we will be busy with a reci­tation of those who are deserting the dubious bliss of single life for matrimony. The list indicates one of three things: A. Our boys arc doing all right in the world; B. Our boys arc extremely brave lads; C. Our boys are un­familiar with the U. S. Army draft regula­tions and have hopes they may be dodging something. On second thought we'll add an­other possibility: D. Our boys are just boys. 
"At 11 a.m. Saturday. September IG, Thom­as S%vecncy Condon popped up from behind the altar of St. Mark's Church in Buffalo, New York, and became the husband of Eliza­beth Marie Kraft (variously known as Betty and 'Pum'kin'). Practically all of Buffalo and suburbs attended a reception the same afternoon at Buffalo's Park Lane. Miss Kraft, we might add, was not a total stranger to the occupants of Walsh' famed 'Culture Cor­ner' way back in '37. 
"Just outside Cleveland, Ohio. Lakewood to be exact, the burghers rose on Saturday, Sep­tember 30, in time to see the wedding cortege of Edward James Gannon, who was married in St. Clement's Church to Miss Rita Mary Hurd, daughter of Judge and Mrs. J. S. Hurd Guests made merry at a reception in Hotel Cleveland. 
"One week earlier, down in the Quaker belt, John Matthews Byrne was married to Mary Catherine McKay in Church of Our Lady of Mercy. Port Chester, New York. It -was a day for the Byrnes! It was also a day for the O'Ncils. Gillespies and assorted other Easterners. 
"Assisting Byrne at the glorious affair were, among others. Cousin Joe O'Neil and Jack Gillespie, both of whom found seats for those present. It is said that the East \\'ill not soon forget the sight of Gillespie in a pearl-gray Ascot, smoke-gray vest, Oxford sray coat, striped gray trousers and plain gray gills. 
"The church ceremony was followed by re­ception at Tammarack Country Club. 
"You will notice that we have decided to eliminate the details so familiar in wedding stories, namely: 'Princess line ecru satin gowns with girdles of tiny orange blossoms; finger length veils: clouds of billowing be­gonias : 2 3-l6ths yards of fish net veil.' Wc eliminate these items because we take for granted all brides mentioned in this column are radiant beauties, superbly dressed and equipped with a 1939 edition of 'Mother Baker's 1001 Tested Recipes.' 
"We also know there must have been sev­eral other members of the 1937 class married since we last wrote this column. We would certainly like to chronicle every one but we are not clairvoyant. All we know we find in the mail-box. 
"On the local front: Bob Hart is back at work for C. F. Smith Co.. and is not quite the same 'Slick.* He is now a most dapper, energetic and hard-working young junior ex­ecutive. 
"John Ullman is still at work for his father here in Detroit. We last saw him at the boxing bouts sponsored by local alumni for funds to send Van Wallace to Lourdes. As you undoubtedly know the trip had to be cancelled but it was an inspiring thing from this end to see the turn-out and sincere in­terest of the city for Van. 
"We were staggered at our desk recently by the following 'phone call: 'Is this the erratic secretary of the 1937 Class?' Assured, the voice continued. *I have a note for the next issue—Robert Lawrence Grogan and fam­ily visited Detroit enroute to Terre Haute from New York City.* Recovering quickly, as is our wont, we made the Book-Cadillac and a most enjoyable few hours with Bob and his globe-trotting parents. Be it reported, to wit: Bob likes Shreveport; he is slightly thin­ner; he is still single (by a hair!). 
"This day we are sending cards to the fol­lowing, begging for information: Don Han­ning, John Mctcalf, Joe Quinn, Joe Mcintosh, John GaIIi\'an, Ben Johnston, Lloyd Stolich. 
"We expect, of course, a 100 per cent re­turn. 
"It seems that's all for this spasm except to record the hope that we never need run a column list of those enlisted for service. 
"Oh, yes, we received a card from a fellow saying 'Or else what?* Wc can't remember his name." 
For man-bites-dog news about International Luke Ticman, see Moran's '36 sector and Walter Winchell. But Tiernan was already showing the Winchell influence when he and the Managing Ed. got together over a few things on that rainy afternoon when the New York club was having its golf party near the N.Y. Fair: Luke reported that N.D. men working at the Fair, besides himself, in­cluded Frank LaBomc, '34, with the Addres­sograph company, Pete McCarron, '39. with the Anthracite Industries and Bill McCarthy, *38, and Bill Kerr, '40. varsity football end this year, with Ford. 
Jack McDonald, formerly of Maiden. Massa­chusetts, is now with American Airlines in Newark. New Jersey. 
Vince Hartnett, after two years of graduate work on the campus, has entered the novitiate of the Society of Jesus. New address not in th Alumni Ofllce so far. 
1938 I^3i^^<I ^^- Willinms, 21G East I^ke Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland. 
From Hal Williams, who starts on his second big year—for you: 
"I started off the 1938 October ALUSINUS with this statistical and rsomewbac boastful phrase, 'With 28 letters, a postcard, and nine pages of class placement data from Bill Dooley to cram into these columns. . . .' Then with the zeal of a newly-appointed class sec­retary I pounded away for 60% column inches, mentioning somethin g like 257 brethren. 
"October, 1939, finds the zeal more or less 

October, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
stitt present, but the 28 letters has dwindled to a mender 11. Without going into the philo­sophical aspects of why or how the boys drop from sight after a year*s time, I'll start right in with the news. 
"Over the Labor Day week-end I traveled out to the old happy hunting grounds to he best man at Tom Hutchinson's wedding. It was great to be back on the campus and to talk to Jim Armstrong, Bill Dooley, Bob Ca-hill, Joe Boland, George Kcogan. Father Eugene Burke, and smiling Tommy Owen. I also bumped into quite a few of our class­mates: Bud ShcFAVood, my old roommate, who came down from Flint for Tom's wedding: Don Hickc}*, Charley Duke, Hank Humphries. Frank AVukovits, John Donnelly, Lcn Boyle, Johnny PloufT, and George Morris. 
"First about Hutchinson's wedding. He was married Labor Day morning in Our Lady's Ghnpel of Sacred Heart Church to Rose Adams, of Indianapolis, by Father Eugene Burke. George Haithcock. *39, ser\'ed Mass. Other Notre Dame men at the wedding were Pat Manion, Tom Barrj', and Jerry Green, '39. At the wedding reception in Goshen I also nottce<I Phil Sheridan, also '39. The Hutchin­sons. after a two weeks* wedding trip in Mich­igan and Canada, returned to Indinnnpolis where Tom is still publicity director for the Indianapolis Public Library. 
"\\Tiile at Notre Dame I gatheretl some notes. Don Hickey was working for his father on the new Breen-PhilHps residence hall which was erected between old Freshman Hill (heard that rumor that they were going to tear it down soon) and the gym. Quite a few of the boys are working around school: Johnny Plouff is still working in the Purchas­ing and Maintenance Department: Charley Duke is assisting Joe Pctritz tn the sports publicity work: John Donnelly is working for Bob Cahill in the Athletic Office and taking Law on the side: George Morris, who won one of the 'Dome* awards last year, is understudy­ing Mr. Oliver and finishing in Law this year: Leo 'Boyle is still holding down his old job in the General Offices while taking law. 
"I met Leo Boyle on the way to the Bend one day and he passed along some interesting information: Jim Murphy, who is attending the University of Arizona Law School, wrote the official school song for Arizona University: Dan Qainlan is doing social service work in some small town in Wisconsin; Loa Giragi was back on the campus in June after receiv­ing the okay from Mayo Brothers—for a while Lou was a reader in the Arizona State Senate, but he is now back at work on his brother's paper; John Mnrrin stopped at N.D. early this summer on his return trip from Spud O'Brien's wedding. 
"Charley Dnkc told me that Charlie Calla­han is now working for Christy Walsh doing sports promotion work (that's the perfect job for Charlie) ; John Irvine Head is working in Mishawaka; J. Norbert SnlliTan is working in the classification department of the Michigan State Prison; Don Fischer, former manager, is working out of Chicago for Dun and Bradstreet; and Bill Condon, one of the foot­ball managers, is going to University of Mis­sissippi for his last year of law. 
"Walking through the Notre Dame kitchen to get another whiff of that distinctive odor. I bumped into Hank Humphries, who is in the accounting department of Bendix in South Bend. He mentioned that Otto Scherer is tn the accounting department of Studebaker's and going great guns. 
"In good old Howell's Frank Wokorits re­lated that he is working for the Conservative Life Insurance Co. in South Bend; that his brother Tom was home for a short vacation but was still employed by Firestone in Akron: and that Paul Nowak is in the South Bend branch of Firestone until October I when he returns to Akron to start playing basketball for Firestone. Johnny Moir, who is also with Firestone, according to Frank, got married to a girl named JMargey on August 2G. Frank also mentioned that Herb "Weber is still with the Indiana & Michigan Electric Co. in its accounting department, and Jack Moulder is working for the Moulder automobile agency in S. B. 
"Stan White is running a filling station in South Bend, and Chuck Borowski married Miss Evelyn McCauslin on May 30 in South Bend. Chuck is working for the South Bend Water Works. 
"And that takes care of all the news gar­nered in the Bend except that my roommate is still employed in the timekeeping depart­ment of Chevrolet Motors in Flint and is get­ting quite stout around the waist. 
"Now for the correspondence: Nick Lam­berto wrote from Chicago on July 8 that Phil Kirch was working in the sports department of the HEREX when it was still going and that 'Red Shea, who taught school at Dowling in Des Motncs last year, had left for the South in pursuit of romance upon completion of the school year, and hasn't been heard of since.* Nick added that Red isn't going to tench school this fall. I had another letter from Nick on August 11 but he adds no class news other than he is rooming with Johnny Beer. Johnny, incidentally, did quite a bit of work on the Chicago 'Tribune' All-Star football game. He dropped me a line in the midst of the campaign, but gave me no defi­nite dope on himself or any of his classmates. I haven't heard what has happened to Lam­berto and Kirch since the HEREX folded. I would appreciate it if they would send a postcard advising of their present occupation and address. 
"I had a swell letter from Brother Bertrand (Bill) Mahoney, O.P., from the Dominican House of Studies, River Forest, Illinois. It was such a fine letter that I forwarded it to Bill Woemer and asked him to return it as soon as he had finished reading it- Bill hasn't returned the letter yet so I can't give you the information contained in it. 
"Tiger McGrath, in green ink, \vrote this summer that Johnny Buckley was married July S to his old flame. Tiger was spending the summer loafing and playing softball in a commercial league around Chicago. I had another letter from Tiger recently in which he said that he had just returned from a six weeks' vacation in the north woods of Wis­consin. He also mentioned that Johnny Buck­ley just returned from a six week wedding trip—going 8.000 miles and taking in Lake Louise and Frisco. Tiger added that he had heard Whitey Beinor. '39, was entering the C- U. Law School in Washington, 
"Johnny Lediner, the pride and joy of Johnny Lechner, wrote on July 28 that he was leaving for a short vacation to visit BUI Langley in Conneaut, Ohio. In all modesty he mentions that he has lost 50 pounds, dou­bled his legal practice in the year he has been out of school, and added 12 new girls to his long list of admirers and worshipers. 
"Don Hickey sent me a mighty fine letter on August 29- He says, in part, 'Chuck Sweeney is in town with the Sinclair people: Owen Kane is now in LaPorte, Indiana, after being in Mishawaka. Chicago, Kankakee, Dav­enport, Pittsburgh, and other points. Bob 'Maz* is in the bakery business in Cleveland as is Babe Kelley in Chicago (now married). Anton still is the hanker, Pmsha in the meat business, and Bob Gartland, "vice-president" of Marshall Fields in Chicago. Got a letter from Johnny (SJV.C.) Kelley from Massachu­setts. He is climbing in the insurance busi­ness. The boys sorta" fell down Commence­ment week-end, only a few showed up. But what there was of them or us we had quite a time. Hit the Ramble Inn, Charlie Schmits, etc. . . .' 
"On June 17 I received one of those fa­mous letters from Bill Woemer, who is now working for the Calvert Distillers Corp., 759 Terminal street, Los Angeles. He hasn't any news of the class to pass along, but he writes that he is havin'g the time of his life in California. 
"Under the head of miscellaneous informa­tion we can put the following: Ed Bartnett kicked through with a typical letter concern­ing all the boys in New York, but I've mis­placed the epistle and so his news cannot be chronicled in this issue. Sorry, Ed. I heard from a cousin of mine at Rosary College that Tom Gorman, now* in Chicago, is going around with one of Rosary's beautiful seniors. I also heard a rumor that Jack Crowley, out there on the Pacific Coast, is married and the proud father of bouncing triplets. 
"I apologize to the fellows whose letters I haven't ans\vered yet, and ask that they grant me a little more time. I would like to hear from Gene Vaslett, Bill Robinson, Bob Mul­len, Charlie Callahan, Tex Haggar. Rns Red-gate, Scott Reardon. Tom Gorman, Joe Race. Johnny O'Connor, Loa DaPra. Moose Waters, Larr?' Dillon. Chaunccy Rooney, George Be­langer. Tom Elder, Hugh O'Donnell. and Chuck Brosius. 
"And now I'll move over and let Vince DcCoursey start in." 
Additions by the home office to the Williams saga: Walt ManliaU, assistant freshman coach at N.D. last year, is now coach at Coal Township High School. Shamo­kin, Pennsylvania. Anthony Snlewsld con­nected with a job through John Balfe's New York Club placement office, but exact infor­mation about kind and place is still laddng; Ed Flanigan, Buffalo, is probation officer for . the United States Federal Court of Judge Harold Burke, '16, in Rochester, New York: Joe Krupa is teaching in the University of Portland prep school. Portland. Oregon; Jim McCarthy, formerly of New Haven, who was at N.D. last year for graduate work, is now a social case worker for the Catholic Home Bureau. Brookljm. New York, and he and his wife reside at 305 95th Street. Brooklyn. 
Bob Bryan, South Bend, was one of the lenders in the med class at Western Reserve, Cleveland. last year, keeping up the outstand­ing record he made at N.D. 
1 Q^ Q TIncent DeConrsert SSI N. ISth St.. 
**'*'*' Kansas City, Kansas. 
From Vince DeCooraey. your secretary, who wants help, help, help: 
"Sent out about 25' cards this month and got answers from about 10 or so—not good but not very bad either. Perhaps the others will write when they see this appeal for aid. 
"One of the things that made us feel good at the last graduation ceremonies was that 
The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1939 
next year we wouldn't be paying out for cap and ^w n next year like some of the lawTcrs: Chatlle Dell» Pat Bannon, Pat Gorman, etc Sorry that we don't know the rest of the boys who went back to strusrsle under Dean Konop. Still I suppose that they are better off than, well for instance, me—struBgling along at a no-pay job learning what the quart of milk contains, a far cry from Mr. Fagan's 'Employer - Employee Relations an d Labor Le^&lation.' 
"While speaking of the lawyers it would be appropriate to say here that a card from Pat Gorman, at the usual place in Atlantic City, promised a letter later on; we're still waiting. Dick O'McIia dropped a nice long travelogue into the mail hox one day and we reprint sections of it: 
*' *The day school was over, I went east with Jim Tanscy and his folks. I stayed in New Haven a week, saw Joe Dray every once in a while, all in all, had a dam nice time. As my purpose was in seeing the World's Fair I took the train to N. Y. C. and looking at a map on the way noticed that the train went through Pelham, New York. "Well. I stayed and sponged off George CNeil and his swell family for a week. From there I spent two days with Sal Scarlata in Lodi, New Jer­sey. All this time I was taking in the Fair and enjoyed it veiy much. The next leg was homeward by way of Elmira where I saw Paul Donovan, Tom King, Butch Kennedy, and Fran Hogan. "While playing golf we ran into a foursome which included Ed Broscoc. so we had a big party that ni^t. From there I went to Buffalo—oh yes, my trip was by way of R. C. T. (Registered Collegiate Thumbers)—^I stayed there with Joe Kyan.' 
" 'I went to the Notre Dame dance (sum­mer formal) of the Buffalo Qub and had a swell time. Greg Rice -was there, too. From there I headed for Cleveland, Toledo and Chicago, stopping over just long enough in South Bend to laugh at the fools in sum­mer school.* 
" 'At home ran into Joe Pcdrucci camping in a house trailer for a week: Lou Ottmer was up and stayed two days.' 
"And that's all the news that Dick had: the lesson to learn is that when you hear O'Melia's around, duck I If the noble class president could only write and tell me what all those he mentioned are doing at the pres­ent time, there would be a pretty complete survey of employment in the East. How about it, Dick? Incidentally, for those that didn't know, Dick is going to "Wisconsin Law School, and Don to Marquette Law School—unless plnns have been scrapped since last June. 
"Just to speak of "Wisconsin brings to mind that doughty champion of the 'revolution.* Frank Parks. Got a nice letter from Frank one Friday during a dust storm: weather highly appropriate for contents. The tool of Moscow ^^-rites: 
" 'I am still single. Will attend the Uni­versity of "Wisconsin's great I*aw School. The great Larry Sutton of course will return to Notre Dame on a politics scholarship to try for his Master's. My roommate, Rollie Martin. is working (?) for his father, in the circu­lation department of the Fond du Lac 'Com­monwealth-Reporter.' At present he is con­cerned with the complete reorganization and re-routing of the carrier system. Some sort of a Republican scheme to make each of the little kids an independent operator.* 
" 'The great (size) Van Bergen of Grays-lake, was in a quandary when I last heard from him. As you know he had enrolled in Dr. Hutchins* Law School. But his mother thought that to go to Georgetown would be better than to expose him to the perils of greater Chicagoland. The compromise might end in ^Visconsin, he said.* 
" 'I drove to Eau Claire yesterday and called the Kaiser home, but received no an­swer. I have no information whatever on Harry or his health. Bob Heywood is sup­posed to be recuperating from ulcers—not sup­posed to go off to school, this fall. The rest was to last into October. However. I have not heard from nor seen him since leaving school.' 
"Quite a pleasant surprise was the letter from Joe Harrington in August. Joe has been around quite a bit since leaving old Sorin— traveled about 7500 miles since leaving the campus and at present is in Cristobal, Pan­ama, working for the Grace Lines as a junior boarder (that's a sort of apprentice pirate) and getting along fine, he reports. Joe made New York just in time for the Notre Dame Day at the World's Fair and had quite a bit to say about it: 
" 'Had dinner with Andy Wilson and Bill Donnelly. Others whom I saw were John Cella, who is in radio advertising. He swears by Father Lahcy's course (all of which re­minds me that the first temporary job T had this summer was selling advertising in New Orleans). Fred Digby is marking time until he goes into radio advertising in New Orleans. My old roomie, Jake Sullivan, was planning to go to Australia and the Philippines this month.' 
•' 'Jim ConncU is studying art under Ada Bethune up in Newport, and plans to go to Chicago U. Law School this winter.* 
" 'Ah yes, there wras also Jim Raaf, who was the one who took me over to the Fair. Also Ed Tracey whom we met on the Fair train. Jim is also a member of the Grace organization. He is in the accounting division of the W. R. Grace & Co., the parent com­pany. He was given a preference !n being taken into the accounting division, as all new men in Grace Company's New York offices usually spend six months as office boy. Hugh Bums is also a Grace man.* 
"My old and revered roomie. Didc Anton. is mired deep in the cool but slimy recesses of the hanking profession. He has been pro­moted to the head of the 'soup' department of the Drover's National Bank in Chicago. Tn his letter he says that Frank Fitch is work­ing for Montgomery Ward on the North Side and that one of these days he plans to see him. George Neumann is with Sears, also on the North Side. Just where John O'Brien is sta­tioned—also Sears—we don't know. 
"liongest letter reecived was from John Kolin, who says that he is working in New York but did not say where—if any one wants to see him, drop in at the German-Ameri­can; he's been waiting there all summer for Charlie Nelson and Tom Zicgler to drop in on him. 
"John reports that Andy Wilson is as yet unmarried and unemployed; that Bill Donnel­ly is going to Columbia with Tom Ziesler. unless Tom decides on either Pitt or matri­mony. 
Says John further; 
"Charlie Nelson is going back to audit O'Malley's course jnst so he won't have to do any papers. He also said he would like to retire but doesn't know what he could retire from; he has been leading a rather hectic vacuous life by not doing all those things he should have done. Art Davii seems busy for all I can catch of him are fleeting glances coming home at night.* 
"Tom Hogan. of the Brooklyn Hognns, came through with a nice letter around the first of September. He seemed to be quite busy: 
" 'During the day I've been working in a real estate office, acting as a rent collector, bookkeeper, and general office handy man. The job is only temporary, and I've just been marking time until September 18 when Pm scheduled to start work with Hasldns and Sells. I've been absorbing a little more cost accounting during the evenings at New York University, a pastime which I hope to con­tinue throughout the fall. If all goes w*ell I should get my M.B.A. in October, 1940.* 
"Tom was also among those present at N.D. Day at the Fair and says that he saw Fred Honerkamp, who is w*orking with his dad in the lumber business; Hugh Bums, w*ho Is working at the Grace estate; Bill Costello and Jim Quinn, on w*hom he had no information; and Joe Leising, worldng somewhere in down­town New York. Joe said that Charlie Colgan was traveling in Europe, and here we beg a letter from that undaunted adventurer telling of his encounters with Hitler. Then Tom went on: 
" 'My ex-roommates, Paul Kluding and Frank Fitzpatrick. are both in the ranks of the gainfully employed. Paul is working as a bookkeeper-accountant with a printing con­cern in Norwalk, Ohio, and judging from a recent letter he seems to like the work. Frank is back in the Canal Zone, working with the War Department in the construction of new locks and fortifications provided by a recent act of Congress. He hopes to get back to the States this fall, but he says that from the looks of things down there he won't be able to make it.* 
"Just the other day came word from Frank Gaglione, saying that he is worlung for his father in the fruit trade while Waiting to see about a coaching job at Canisius; during the summer he taught the kids of Buffalo how to play basketball, at the request of Uncle Sam. Frank had quite a bit to say about the Buffalo crowd: Chuck Nagle is working for his dad at the Ellicott Paint Company; Frank Rcppen­hagen, helping his dad outfit the printers of the nation and spending the evenings in night school; Dan Shecdy, in insurance somewhere; Bemie Feeney, getting ready to go to Catholic University this fall—he having won a scholar­ship at that school. Chuck Theisen. married. is coaching football at Salem, Massachusetts. 
"From the deep south the voice of Charlie Bennett who is marking time and measuring putts until Florida U. Law School opens. Tom Foy, out in Los Angeles, is worldng for Union Oil Co., I think. 
"That the lure of higher education in America has not entirely been destroyed is borne out by the entrance into Harvard's Business School of Frank Cunningham (bour­geoise at last), Bob Dicckleman, John Starkie; if there are any others we don't know who they are. Frank O'Laughlin, he w*ho was going to Oxford, didn't, on account of the war. He was planning to enter Har\-ard at last reports. And Ed O'Connor at last report was going to Santiago. Chile, South America, to test the rum sours at some uni­versity there. Just where the pre-meds have gone is something of a mystery to me—how about one of them writing and giving all the desired information at once? 

October, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
"Keluctantly leaving behind the correspon­dence which, eicccpt for a post card from Ray Schlcck (room 303, Y-M.CJV., Schenectady. New York) saying that he was well satisfied with General Electric, is now completely ex­hausted, it is time to turn to the realm of the speculative. Before leaving school some things turned up for recording, and we*d be everlastingly grateful if someone would con­firm some of them. For instance: did Bcmic Sullivan go back to N. D. as a freshman en;ri­ncer ? Is Leo Simpson flying a transport plane ? Is Bill Whelehan working for that insurance outfit in Chicago ? [Whelehan is with Associates Discount Company in Roches­ter, New York.—Eds.] 
"There are many other things more or less certain. Walt Johnson was going to Ran­dolph Field, Texas, to learn to fly for the army: Tom Kalman was going to Pitt Law: Phil North was to work for the Kansas City 'Star,* but if he is here in Kansas City he has certainly kept his presence a secret. Tom Reardon, by the way. is working for the Cen­tral Surety Company in Kansas City, and hears the tinkle of wedding bells just a little more distinctly than in June- Tom says that 
A. Clark Volbcrding is running his father's hotel in Livingston, Montana. 
"Just by way of information—Bob Rcndlcn is in Memphis with G.MJV.C.: Tom Mclntyrc in Los Angeles with Sears; Don Daffcy at M.I-T. on an engineering scholarship: Jack Doyle at N.D. for his Master's; Hugh Gar^-cy is also back studying apologetics, mostly under Hank Rago and John Brodcrick; 'Duhty Joe' Sullivan is engngrd in picking apples some­where in New England. 
"The idea just f>ccurred that it would be a good idea if John Wintermeyer would write in with a stirring defense of the British Em­pire, that is unless he is already engaged in army training. 
"Of course most everyone read about Tom Shechan's great record in the National Ama­teur. Wonder what else Tom is doing ? Graham Starr, up in Concordia, Kansas. Va s indirectly reported ill of pneumonia; will try to have more information next time. [Graham is back on the campus for graduate work.—Eds.] 
"Among the helpful suggestions fonrarde*! by the Alumni Office's Mr. Dooley -was the list from the Placement Bureau. From iti= sanctified paper we gather that: Joe Adrian is with Brewster Aeronautical Corporation, Bethpage, Long Island, New York, as also is Francis Bradley. Louis Bemis is with East­man at Rochester; Loa Demer, pride of the engineering school, band, and baseball team, is back at Notre Dame as a graduate assistant. Jerry Green is back for Dean Konop's law. Charlie Hayes and Dan Schmidt are both with Caterpillar Tractor in Peoria, Illinois, — Charlie as an engineer and Dan as an ac­countant. 
"Joe Hicffcl, Republic Steel, Warren, O.: Bob Schirf with Commonwealth Edison in Chicago: Tim SalUvan starts in October with Westing­house in the East Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania, training school. Earl Zerbe is \tfith Bendix Aviation in South Bend, and the aviation In­dustry also claimed Don Morgan and Bob Hnethcr, both at Lockheed In Burbank. Cali­fornia. Joe Dray is with International Busi­ness Machines, and there is a hazy thought that he is In South Bend at the ofi^ice there: Charlie Norton is with the Burroughs company somewhere. 
"Among the accountants: Dave Meskill is with General Electric, at Bridgeport, Connecti­cut; Joe Rirzi. with R. G. Rankin, Account­ants, in Chicago; Jim Walsh at Haskins, Sells. Chicago. 
"Mark Mitchell is with his father in the insurance business in Chicago, and Bob Voel­ker*s job with the advertising department of Jumore Co.. in Kncine, Wisconsin, came through. Jerome Kaczmarck is with Indiana & Michigan Electric Company in South Bend. 
"Ed Simonich is coaching at Carroll Col­lege, Helena. Montana, while Herman Bamcll and Harney Foster are opposing coaches at South Bend high schools, the former at South Bend Catholic and the latter at South Bend Central Catholic. Dick Burkholder wrs doing public accounting work for AVall, Cassel & Eberly, Dayton, Ohio, and Luke LaCroix was a summer plaj-ground director in Hncken­sack. New Jersey, while waiting for something else to break. 
"Bob Sheppard spent the summer as a room clerk for the Virginia Skyland Company, Sk>-­land Virginia. Louie Somcrs wasyis a time­keeper for the Larson Construction Company. Decatur, Illinois. Ed Broscoe Is coaching at a Catholic high school In Cleveland, and Joe Nardone is assistant to Joe Kuharich. '38. head coach at Vincentian Institute, Albany. New York. Ed Longhi Is with an insurance organization in Hartford Connecticut. Bill Hofcr is the recently appointed head freshman coach at the University of Iowa, and Earl Brown is end coach at Brown University. Providence, Rhode Island. Augie Bossu and Jim McGoIdrick are assistants to Jake Kline. the boss of freshman footballers at N. D. Longhi. Hofer, Brown and McGoIdrick, along with Joe Bclnor and Motts Tonelli, were on the All-Star squad in Chicago of which Elmer Laydcn was bead coach. 
"Norm Anderson Is a sales correspondent with the National Gypsum Company. Buffalo. New York, and Emmctt Barton is with Ben­dix In South Bend. Mike Blessing is doing accounting back in the home town, Curtis. Nebraska. Dick Bohn Is an electrical appren­tice with Carnegie-Illinois Steel, Gary, Indi­ana. Sam Borzillcri filled in the summer as manager of a cleaning and storage department in South Bend, while looking for a connec­tion in law. 
"Tom Bulger has a job In Indianapolis, ac­cording to the latest dope, and John Devins is with the Minneapolis and St. Louis Rail­road in Minneapolis. John Duffy clicked on an engineering job w^ith Fitzpatrick Brothers. Chicago. Bob Gallagher was with J. S. Hartt. consulting engineer, and was doing inventory and appraisal work for the Interstate Power Company out in Iowa at the last report. 
"One of the leading 'townies,' Dick Garab. is buying Victor records (adv.) for the Great Lakes Distributing Company, Sonth Bend, and farther down in Indiana. Frank Gartland is a shipping clerk for the Atlas Foundry Com­pany. Marion. Ed Grimes is with the Stude­baker Corporation, South Bend. John Jax­theimer is keeping track of things for the Burroughs Adding Machine Company. Alfred Kiefer Is In the drug business with R. G. Alfonzo, 9957 East Forest Avenue, Detroit. 
"Dean McCarthy reports that Ernie Lanohi Is using his combination accounting-law to advantage with Allis-Chalmers, probably in Ernie's home port of LaPorte. Indiana. Tom Maher is joined up with the foreign sales division of Union Carbide and Carbon, New York City. Washington, D. C . flashes the word that Phil Maloney Is employed by Na­tional Cash Register there. Ed McDermott combined forces with his father in the family business in Grand Rapids. The General Chem­ical Company. South Chicago, Illinois, has claimed Bill Mctrailer. 
"Bill O'TooIc continues in newspaper work, with the Syracuse (N. Y.) 'Post-Standard' as correspondent and photographer for Pulaski County. Ed Sadowski is on the payroll of the Peter C. Reilly industries in Indianapolis. Fred Sisk was going to law school, but just where he didn't know in June and hasn't re­vealed since. Felix Toner can be reached at 326 Second Street, Juneau, Alaska, where he went to work for that gold mine In the hills. Julian Tonsmeire is with the Arma Engineer­ing Company in Brooklyn. New York. 
"Rod Trousdale is associated ^vith Smith Bros. Hardware Company, a wholesale firm in Columbus. Ohio. Pan! Waddell. who got his A.M. last June, is now executive secre­tary of the St. Joseph Medical Association. South Bend. The noted John Edward Walsh spent part of the summer selling calendars and things for Brown & Bigelow In Chicago, but the latest pony express had him depart­ing for greener, but uncharted, fields. John Heno" Weber is one of the ^VPA engineers in South Bend, or w^as at the last grand check-up. 
"Ir*- Klister was on the campus late In the summer just before taking off for Mt. St. Mary's Seminary, Emmltsburg. Maryland. Walt Dmry crashed the tough barrier at the Western Reserve School of Medicine. Cleve­land, being one of the 74 first-year men chosen out of 850 applicants. Phil Sheridan of Goshen, Indiana, had a couple of temporary jobs in Goshen, but he Is now permanently set up with Studebaker's, South Bend. Ken Higby is going through a training period with Carson, Pirie. Scott & Co., the big Chicago department store. Bob Piercecchi, from Laur­lum, Michigan, 'wants to know the where­about of one Virgil DreUlng. 
"And that about completes the list from the Placement Bureau, aside from those al­ready mentioned in the first part of these notes. 
"Here we have reached the end of the first copy for 1939's class notes. We promise to have even more next month—on condition that we get a lot of letters. There are several lying around here that have not yet been an­swered, but soon they will be—in the mean­time writers please be patient. If it would be all right to do so I'd like to ask Carl Fricke, Panl McArdle, Dave MeskiD, Harry Kaiser and Fred Sisk particularly to write: but anyone else that feels like it, please take typewriter, pen, pencil, or what have you and dash off a few lines. 
"So in the absence of anything more to say, l^Ir. Dooley, what' do you say we call it quits for the month?" 
FATHER AND SONS RENEWED 
Sometime after the first classes are safely settled, the Alumni Office is going to re-convene the interesting group called together last year for the first time—the sons and grandsons of alumni. There is a fine group of new recruits, bearing familiar names, in this year's freshman class. Outstand­ing among them is the great-grand­son of John Riordan, a student at Notre Dame in 1853. The newcomer, John Riordan also, of Whiting, Indi­ana, is a cousin of Registrar Robert Riordan, '24, who is a nephew of the '53 alumnus. 
The University of Notre Dame du Lac 
Notre Dame, Indiana, U. S. A. 
Colleges ar id Departments 

COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Department of Religion Department of Philosophy Department of English Department of Classics Department of Modem Language Department of History Department of Economics 
Department 
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 

Department of Biology Department of Chemistry Department of Physics 
Department Department Department Department Department Department Department
 of Journalism 
Department Department 

(Special programs for pre-medlcal and for pre-dental 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
Department of Civil Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering Department of Electrical Etiglneermg Department of Architecture 
Department of 
COLLEGE OF LAW 

COLLEGE OF COMMERCE 
Department of Finance and Accounts 
Department of Marketing Department of Foreign 
GRADUATE SCHOOL 

Philosophy History English Economics 
and Business Commerce 
Politics Sociology 

NOTE TO ALUMNI 
Please urge early registration, preferably first semester of the senior high school year or earlier, for relatives or friends. Three advantages accrue: 
1.
 The applicant is sure of coming within the quota of the College of the University he chooses, if accepted. 

2.
 The applicant is sure of securing a room on the campus, if accepted. 

3.
 The applicant learns upon application of any deficiencies in entrance requirements, before completing high school. 


Action on the above suggestions \\-ill pre­vent many of the disappointments to alumni and friends which occurred this year in con­junction with a capacity enrollment well ahead of the opening of school. 
Department Department Department Department Engineering Drawing 
Administration of Politics 
of Sociology 
of Education 
of Physical Education 
of Art 
of Music 
of Speech 
of Astronomy 
of Mathematics 
students) 
of Mining Engineering of Chemical Engineering of Metallurgy of Aeronautical Engineering 

Education Chemistry Mathematics Biology Physics Metallurgy 
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS Notre Dame 
GROUP I—Nine Required {Ten in Sci. and Ens. Col.) Enslish (all CollcKes) _ -S units History (all Colleges) — 1 unit AlKcbra (all Colleges) 1 unit Goometrj' (all Colleges) „ 1 unit. Science (Eng. and Sci.-Physics required)-™ 1 unit Language (all Colleges) 2 units Science and Engineering require ^^ unit each of Int. or 
Adv. Algebra, and Solid Geometry. 
GROUP II 

Latin .^ Greek French Gorman Spanish History Algebra (Int or Adv.) Solid Geometry Trigonometry . Physiography Physiology Astronomy _™™ ~ Botany ZooIog>' .___„.™_™ Chemistry Physics ™ 
2 to ­1 units  
2 or 3 unit--;  
2 to 4 units  
'  2 to 4 units  
.  ™  2 to 4 units  
__ 2 units  
 .„  V. unit  
.  Vi unit  
—.  y± unit % unit  
 ™™_  ^^ unit  
^  unit  
%  unit  
„ _  %  unit  
1 unit  
1 unit  


GROUP III—(Not more than Three counted) Electives—Any subjects which High School accredits. 
MINIMUM TOTAL REQUTREn 15 units 






