The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

THE NOTRE DAME 
LUMNUS 
cy: 
Reverend Julius Arthur Nieuwiand, C.S.C, '99 Honorary President of the Alumni Association 
R. I. P. 

nis boolt is noi to uo 
^aken fyofli th© Library 
JUNE. 1936 


Y£S! 
MtRE, 

lAM 
^U/UAT 

kGOII 
[TO 
.TOGO ^ABourir 


^^^m AND r^^ —7 1 SHALL^ 
See this ARROW! It is bent on cutting kNOniEl through all difficulties, until it reaches its objective. 
Sons of Notre Dame! Bend all your ener­gies. Join the hundreds of men who will gather under the shadow of the Golden Dome for the Annual Retreat. Make no mistake about it, at ihe close of this outstanding Catholic function you will entone from the depths of grateful hearts the SONG of Thanksgiving: 





ONTO 
"Holy God We Praise Thy Name." 


noTR^DAmc JT 
j^^  For detailed information  and reservations address:  
Rev. Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., '15Director of Laymen's Retreats Notre Dame, Indiana   ^'  

ANNUAL RaR6AT FOR UYM€N 
AUGUST 6^-H TO 9™ 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, 75 The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association Meaber of die Aaeriaa 
of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 
EJiloT a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni does of $5.00 inclnde Alnnmi CooadL 
a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-^ass matter January 1. 
WILLIAM R . DOOLEY, 7 6 1923, at the post oflSce at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All Member of NatX Cadiolie 
Managing EJUor correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind. Alnmiu Federaliaii. 
Vol. XIV. June. 1936 No. 9 
Fr. Nieuwland Dies Suddenly in Washington 
Heart Fails After Return From Commencement at Notre Dame 
Where Special Recognition Was Given His Great Career; 

He Had Just Become Honorary President of Association 
Rev. Julius Arthur Nieuwland, C.S.C, A.B. '99, Ph.D., Sc.D., pro­fessor of chemistry, and one of the most brilliant alumni of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, died suddenly on Thursday, June 11, in the chem­ical laboratories of Catholic Univer­sity, Washington, D. C. 
Father Nieuwland is one of the last turned to Washington from Notre Dame, where his great contributions to science had been recognized in several of the events of the Univer­sity's 92nd Commencement. Father Nieuwland stood with Hon. Francis 
P. Garvan on the platform from which Mr. Garvan dedicated the new §300,000 Biology building, a tribute to the development of science at Notre Dame so stimulated by the achievements of Father Nieuwland. He was made honorary president of the Alumni Association of the Uni­versity, and his work was praised fay the presidents of the University and the Association at the annual alumni banquet on June 6. 
To Notre Dame men the work of-Father Nieuwland in the 37 years since his graduation needs only brief summarizing. He was the embodi­ment of that humility associated with the priesthood, in the face of achieve­ment and honors that brought the national spotlight to him repeatedly. He was almost as great in his hobby, botany, as he was in his chosen field, acetylene chemistry. And the botan­ical libraries, collections, and contri­butions of the University in this field can be traced largely to his interest. 
Father Nieuwland is one of the last of those great individual figures in a chapter of Notre Dame's history who emerged, almost in spite of them­selves, as dominant in their several fields. Working with the most mod­est equipment, and extending this modesty into his results and his very manner. Father Nieuwland still commanded the attention and the praise of the world of chemistry. And the astounding significance^ of his contributions was just becoming man­ifest as his heart, the true barometer of his career, signalled its conclu­sion. 
The noted priest-scientist died as he would have preferred. He dropped dead in a chemistry laboratory at Catholic University. Physicians said death was due to coronary occlu­sion, a heart ailment. Efforts to re­vive him with a pulmotor and other means failed. 
Father Nieuwland had been sent Tuesday to Holy Cross College in Brookland, D.C, Washington suburb, to rest. His tireless spirit caused him to return to his experiments, and the effort is believed to have caused his death. 
Known for his remarkable indus­try and tirelessness of spirit and body. Father Nieuwland in a life­time of work at Notre Dame achieved brilliant results. He was not only Notre Dame's first scientist but an international authority on acetylene. 
Father Nieuwland was bom at Hansbeke, Belgium, in 1878. He came to the United States when a child, his family settling in South Bend. 
After finishing high school. Father Nieuwland entered Notre Dame and was graduated in 1899. He then en­tered Holy Cross Seminary to study and was ordained a priest of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross in 1903. 
Eetuming to Notre Dame he served several years as dean of the College of Science, retiring from that position in 1923. 
In 1904 Father Nieuwland brought himself to the attention of industry by his paper on "Some Beactions of Acetylene." He contributed mate­rially to the development of this branch of chemical science. 
In 1906 he discovered a compound which was developed by the govem-
FATHEB NIEUWLAND RECEIVES NICHOLS MEDAL 
Highest Award of American Chemical Society 
ment during the war into the mus­tard gas known as Lewisite. The same year he discovered the com­ponent parts of synthetic rubber, and 14 years later was able to alter the composition of the gas he had first produced so as to form an oil, "divinyl acetylene," the materia l from which the rubber is synthetized. 
From this he continued his work with chemists of the Du Pont Com­pany and produced a satisfactory synthetic rubber which, it is believed, will make the United States indepen­dent of foreign supplies. 
Completion of Father Nieuwland's studies was announced in 1931. In recent years his discovery has been produced under the trade name of Duprene. 
Honors Rest Lightly At the Commencement exercises, when Father Nieuwland was elected honorary president of the alumni a^­sociation, the Rev. John F. O'Hai-a, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame, praised the scientist and announced his research and development of syn­thetic rubber had saved the rubber industrj' $350,000,000 annually. 
Father O'Hara based this figure on a computation of the reduction in price of rubber made since Father Nieuwland's discovery. 
Father Nieuwland never profited one cent on his discovery. He was bound by the vow of povertj' of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Father Nieuwland was made a doctor of philosophy by Catholic University in 1904, and a doctor of science by Notre Dame in 1911. He was a member of both the American and British Chemical societies, of the Deutsche Chemische Gesselschaft, and of the American Society for the Advancement of Science. He was president of the Indiana Academy of Science in 1933-34. 

In 1933 he was awarded the More-head medal by the International Acetylene Association for outstand­ing work in acetylenes, and in 1935 was awarded the Nichols medal, the highest honor awarded by the Amer­ican Chemical Society. 
When presented with the latter medal. Dr. J. M. Weiss, chairman of the juiy of award, pointed out that Father Nieuwland at the risk of his own life had experimented with acet­ylene reactions, research shunned by most investigators because of the danger of explosion—^until he so con­trolled those reactions that they could be studied in genei-al labora­toiy work with comparative safety. 
Just last May Father Nieuwland was awarded the Mendel medal by Villanova College for the advance­ment of science. 
Father Nieuwland also held a high position among the nation's botanists. He added several hundred specimens to the Notre Dame Herbaria, travel­ing about the countrj'side in spare moments on an old bicycle and wear­ing old boots. He founded the Amer­ican Midland Naturalist published at Notre Dame, in 1909. A lover of books, he aided greatly in building up the science libraries at Notre Dame. 
Research, hard digging, was his recipe for achievement in any field. Friends said of him that he had that notable mark of genius—an infinite capacity for taking pains. 
Telegrams of Condolence 

The following are among the hun­dreds of significant telegrams re­ceived at Notre Dame upon word of the death of Father Nieuwland. Notre Dame Clubs, indi^'idual alumni, sci­entists, religious, educators, and friends everj-where, flooded the cam­pus with tributes to his priestly and personal qualities as well as to his acknowledged greatness in science. 
"On behalf of His Majestj''s gov­ernment as well as on my own behalf I offer to you and to your Order deepest sympathy on the death of the Reverend Father Nieuwland whose untimely passing is an irrep­arable loss to science and to the Church as well as to all who had the privilege of knowing him and of ap­preciating his noble character. The Belgian Ambassador." 
"Gravely distressed to hear sad news of Father Nieuwland's death. He was a most distinguished chemist and beloved person. .A.11 his friends mourn for him.—James B. Conant." (President of Har\'ard University) 
"Just received word of your great loss. His death is also an irreplace­able loss to chemistry and to the country . . . Francis P. Garvan." 
"Deeply shocked and disti'essed Father Nieuwland's death. Our coun­try has lost a loyal and useful citi­zen, the science of chemistry one of its most illustrious figures and I personally a warm friend whom I al­ways held in high esteem and affec­tionate regard. Sincerest condol­ences.—Dr. Marston T. Bogert." (Co­lumbia University) 
"Science and Catholic science in particular, has sustained a terrible loss. We mourn with you for our beloved priest scientist who endeared himself to all by his selfless fidelity to religion and science which must surely reap rich reward in Heaven.— Hugh S. Taylor." (Princeton U.) 
"I am deeply shocked to learn of the sudden death of Father Nieuw­land. More than any other Notre Dame man Father Nieuwland dis­tinguished himself in his field. We had all come to love him in recent years for his genuine humility' and modesty in his achievements, and I fear his passing is a loss which can never be replaced not only by Notre Dame but the world of science. . . . Frank C. Walker, '09." 
"Am shocked and grieved at the news . . . Notre Dame has lost an outstanding scientist and I a close personal friend.—W. S. Calcot, Jack­son Laboratories (Dupont)." 
"I am indeed most sorry Father Nieuwland has passed away. His work and name will live on to his and Notre Dame's great credit. I imme­diately transmitted the sad news to our chemists, all of whom knew him intimately and held him in highest esteem both personally and for his distinguished achievements in chem­istry. In his death the field of sci­ence has lost a great mind and Notre 
(Continued on Pase 251) 

FATHER NIEUWLAND IN CHBMISTBY HALL 
"The World Beat a Path to His Door" 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 



92nd Annual Commencement Outstanding 
Subsequent Death of Father Nieuwiand Tragic Climax to Emphasis on Notre Dame's Contributions to Science; Alumni Enjoy Many and Varied Events of Crowded Week-End ' 
Notre Dame's 92nd Annual Com­
mencement, June 5, 6 and 7, packed 
into a three-day period all of the 
glamor and the glory that typify the 
tremendous growth of the University 
in both physical and academic fields. 
Keyed, of course, by the activities 
of the Class of 1936, with the mag­
nificent Baccalaureate Mass and the 
Awarding of Degrees in a GjTnnasi­
um now familiarly ti-ansformed to 
cathedral - like atmosphere, perhaps 
the most significant tone of the Com­
mencement this year rested in the 
recognition of Notre Dame's contri­
bution to the field of Science. 
In retrospect, it is both sad and consoling that the late Father Nieuw­iand, whose career was synonymous these years since'99 with Notre Dame in science, should have participated so extensively. It was symbolic of the history of Notre Dame that his frail figure, standing on the platform as the cornerstone of the new Biol­ogy building was laid, was the real cornerstone upon which the new progress of science at Notre Dame will rest. 
Activities Begin Early 

But, unaware of this impending tragedy, the Commencement was one of happiness, one of progress, and one of promise exceeding even the eye-filling changes that greeted re­turning alumni and friends. 
Thursday night, rectors of the as­signed halls, still deafened with the echoes of departing students, caught the approach of the alumni van. By Friday night, half the crowd was in and settled. 
Friday afternoon, the Class of 1936 met in Washington Hall for the last address of the president of the University. This was augmented this year by an address by the president of the Alumni Association, B. J. Voll, '17. In both these talks, the Class of 1936 heard those fundamentals of living, and making a living, that to­gether are the aim of Notre Dame teaching and the mark of Notre Dame men. 
The afternoon found the Univer­sity golf course crowded, while on Cartier Field the track echoed to the events of the Third Annual Inter­scholastic Track and Field Meet. 
Seven o'clock Friday night found two-way traffic. The Class of 1911. back in enjoyable numbers as the registration records show, was head­ing toward the Dining Halls where ChaiiTnan Pedro de Landero had ar­ranged a dinner. .Generously, the Class had invited the men of adjoin­ing years to meet with them, and the result was a substantial and most happy group. 
Friday Night Filled 

At the same hour, for those to whom the dinner had brought deser­tion, the University Band gave an hour's concert from the impressive porch of the Main Building, filling the old Quadrangle with that variety of melody that has become synony­mous with the direction of Professor Joseph Casasanta, '23. 
Eight o'clock also found a conflict, but one that brought unnatural calm to the campus. The 150 members of the Class of 1931 adjourned to the ample facilities of the Columbia Athletic Club in South Bend for their 5-Year reunion meeting and buffet supper. 
Coinciding with this major event, the University Theatre, in Washing­ton Hall, presented a light farce, "Friday the Thirteenth," under the direction of Professor Albert Doyle, '27, head of the department of speech of the University. 
Saturday morning opened with the impressive Mass for deceased alum­ni, in the same beautiful Sacred 
DB. CHARLES MAYO 
LL.D., '36 

Heart Church where those for whom the Mass was offered enjoyed their spiritual life on the campus. 
At 9:30 the Class of 1936, as­sembling at Sorin Hall in cap and gown, adjourned to the Church for the beautiful rites of the Last Visit. From there the procession moved to Washington Hall for the Class Day exercises and the award of honors'. 
From Washington Hall, at 11 o'clock, the Class, joined by the fac­ulty in academic robes, marched to the Northeast part of the campus where the new Biology building is being erected. There the cornerstone was blessed by the president of the University and an address of great interest was delivered by the Hon. Francis P. Garvan. (The address ap-­pears in fullin this issue.) In add!-, tion to the presence" of. the faculty, including the Science teachers, most appropriately accompanying Mr. Gar-van was the Rev. Julius Nieuwiand, C.S.C, while Rev. Francis J. Wen­ninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science, was master of ceremonies. 
The Seventh Annual Council of Local Alumni Clubs met at 1 o'clock in the court room of the Law build­ing. 
Banquet Saturday's Climax 

During Saturday morning the alumni golf tournament was launched, featuring this year a match between the 1931 team and the Var­sity, which ended in a tie after a brilliant display of golf on the part of the present team and the 5-Year men. 
At 2 o'clock the Catholic Meet on Cartier Field opened the final events. And at 3 o'clock Coach Jake Kline's nine took on Michigan State for the Commencement game, winning 6-4 to wind up a surprisingly fine season, as the sports editor outlines in his section. 
At 6 o'clock the East Hall of the University Dining Halls, decorated beautifully and supplied adequately with food and service, found almost a capacity crowd of alumni, includ­ing the Class of 1936, waiting at its doors. The banquet, including mus­ical background by an orchestra from the University Band personnel, was followed by the annual address of the president of the University, and the president of the Alumni Associa­tion, both of which are reprinted in 
The Commencement and Reunion of 1936 

June. 1936 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
this issue. An additional feature was 

CITATION FOR DEGREES 
the splendid address given by Michael 
0. Burns, '86, a member of the 1036 COMMENCEMENT 
Golden Jubilee Class, on behalf of the Reunion Classes. The president of the Notre Dame Club of Hamilton showed the qualities of thought and expression which have won for him a national reputation as a leader and orator. The. ever-popular Father Moriarty, '10, was the victim of a surprise summons to the microphone, but rallied in his inimitable fashion to please his increasing public. The results of the election were an­nounced by Trustee President Byron Kanaley, '04, and the new president, Arthur J. Hughes, '11, acknowledged his election with a very splendid and promising inaugural speech. 
For the many guests who were not privileged to enjoy the banquet. Pro­fessor Casasanta presented the Uni­versity Glee Club in a concert in Washington Hall, which compensated the non - banqueting gi-oup hand­somely. 
Sunday is Brilliant 

Sunday is always so brilliantly in­terpreted in the major addresses of the day which the ALUMNUS reprints, that many of those colorful details which add to the impressiveness of the pageantry are sacrificed. How­ever, the alumni readers are so famil­iar with the beauties of a Solemn High Mass, so aware of the thrill that comes ^vith the raising of the flag to the top of the campus flagpole, and so conscious of the sentiment that accompanies the graduation of a Class and the donning of academic robes by Seniors and faculty, that these details are not an essential part of a description. 

1936 COMMENCEMENT 
Scenes of, and concerned with, the banner days, June 5, 6 and 7. From top to bottom, left to risht: I) The gymnasium during the Baccalaureate Mass, celebrated by Most Rev. John 
F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne, at which Most Rev. Edward Mooney, Archbishop of Roch­ester, New Yorlc, preached the sermon; 2) A group at the Alumni Banquet; 3) Left to right. Archbishop Mooney, Father O'Hara, Dr. William Mayo, Dr. Charles Mayo, Francis Garvan; 
4) Architect's drawing of the new biology building; 5) Mr. Garvan lays the cornerstone of the biology building, with Fath­er O'Hara looking on and Father Nieuwland in the back­ground: 6) A section of the head table at the banquet; 
7) A bunch of the 1911 re­unioners at the banquet. 
The Degree of Doctor of Laws, 
honoris causa: 
On a member of the American hierarchy, founder and first rector of the Cathedral Latin School of Cleve­land, Ohio, former spiritual director at the North American College in Rome, archbishop and apostolic dele­gate to India and then to Japan, present bishop of a great American diocese, chairman of the administra­tive committee of the National Cath­olic Welfare Conference — a church man revered for democratic spirit, apostolic zeal, and efficient states­manship in the cause of the Universal Church—the Most Reverend Edward Mooney, Bishop of Rochester, New York. 
On a Catholic layman and attorney, who has achieved singular distinc­tion in the exercise of his difficult office as alien property custodian of 
The academic procession went from Main Building to Gymnasium at 8:30 Sunday morning for the Bac­calaureate Mass. The Gymnasium echoed first to the soft music of the organ, then to the now nationally famous Gregorian music of the Uni­versity Choir of Moreau Seminary. Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Foi-t Wayne, was celebrant of the Mass. Most Rev. Archbishop Edward Mooney, D.D., Bishop of Rochester, preached the splendid sermon which we reprint in full. The flag of the Class of 1936 was blessed following the Mass, and, led by the University Band, was carried to the flagpole on the Quadrangle and elevated. 
At 12:30 the Monogram Associa­tion held its annual luncheon in the University Dining Halls. Fred L. Steers, a member of the 25-Year Re­union Class of 1911, member of the Olympic Committee, former track star, governor of the Chicago District of the Alumni Association, and a di­rector, was elected president of the Monogram men, succeeding Eddie Meehan, '20, also a track star, and prominent St. Joe Valley alumnus, who served as the first president of the newly organized group in 1935­36. 
At 4 o'clock in the Gymnasium the final event of the 92nd Commence­ment took place — the awarding of degrees to the Class of 1936, the awarding of honorary Doctorates of Law to the famous Mayo brothers. Doctors William and Charles, and to Archbishop Mooney and the Hon. Francis P. Garvan, and the Com­mencement address, which was shared with millions through the courtesy of the National Broadcast­ing Company's facilities. 
the United States during the World War and since, in the vrise adminis­tration of the funds at his disposal for the public good, in the vast co­operation he has effected between science and industry, and in his in­terest and personal generosity in the field of education the Honorable Francis Patrick Garvan, of Nevr 
York City. 
On two brothers, physicians of world-wide renown, properly named together in one citation, because of their joint achievement in the prac­tice of surgery, in the foundation of their famous clinic, in the impetus they have given to medical research, with resultant thoroughness in the diagnosis and treatment 'of disease, and in their triumph over a prejudice -which sought to discredit their work —Dr. William James Mayo and Dr. Charles Horace Mayo, of Rochester, Minnesota. 
Father Nieuwland Dies 
(Continued from Pace 248) 

Dame a great teacher. — Peter C. 
Reilly." (Lay Trustee) 
"I am inexpressibly shocked and deeply grieved to learn of the death of Doctor Nieuwland. Notre Dame and our country have suffered a great loss. — Matthew J. Camej'." (Lay Trustee) 
"Just learned of the passing of Dr. Nieuwland. We join in your sorrow for the loss of a dear friend, a great inventor, chemist, teacher and a loveable man.—Dupont E. G. Robinson (Wilmington, Del.)" 
"Am deeply saddened by the news of Father Nieuwland's death. He was a tower of strength to American chemistry one of our most honored members, and one who was deeply loved personally by everyone who had the privilege of knowing him.— Charles L. Parsons, Secretary of the American Chemical Society." 
"Nieuwland brilliant investigator, inspiring teacher, loyal friend. Will be greatly missed. — Dr. E. Emmet Reid (Johns Hopkins)." 
"Sincere condolence on the loss of Father Nieuwland, devout religious, eminent scientist, excellent educator. —Dr. Albert F. Zahm." 
"Greatly shocked and grieved at the untimely passing of Father Nieuwland. 'Through award of More-head medal and association during a trip abroad two years ago I learned to love and respect the Father. Apart from personal loss, science has sus­tained a distinct check to construc­tive progress to which he contributed so largely.—John M. Morehead." 
The President's Page 
The echoes of the great throngs that trod the campus on this Sunday of Commencement time are being lost in the solitude of eventide. A brief moment ago four hundred-odd graduates, under the sponsorship of their deans, crossed the threshold of Notre Dame out into the world of realitj'. A great surgeon. Dr. William 
J. Mayo, had spoken. Tiie president of the University, Reverend John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, had said farewell to each of these young men as he passed in review; this president, a young man, whose untiring energj-, sympa­thetic understanding and man-elous ability, will, without question, stamp him as one of the gi-eatest presidents of all time. A son of mine of four­teen joined me in viewing that scene, and I wondered if he had caught its significance. 
Alumni Hall has emptied and its newly found quietude is disturbing. I look out from Room 2aG toward the East, this room so recently im­mortalized by so many notables. Within its confines the happy voices of Father Moriarty, Father Will Carey, Billy Ryan and Myles Sin­nott endeavored to recapture the harmonies of an old college song, sung so often and so many years ago; the still sage wisdom of Judge Farabaugh sounded forth, recounting scenes from the old law room in Sorin Hall. He, too, heard himself joined with Father Matthew Walsh and Father Thomas Crumley, by the men of 1911, as being one of the great triumvirate of teachers of that time; Bill Kelleher, the only gradu­ate monogram man bom in Ireland, steps in to berate the 1911 man whose oifspring has not matriculated at Notre Dame. He has a great heart, that Bill; he and Graver Malone, his constant companion. 
All the Notre Dame Men 

Here also is Harry Miller, about to transfer his local scene from Cleveland to Wilmington, Delaware. What heartaches there must be in that for him—wonderful brothers, marvelous friends, all to be left be­hind. Success is savage at times. 
Ed Figel, w^ho through a slip of the tongue, had his fine old father-in-law outdoing Mike Burns by grad­uating in 1775 and "saying" Father Hudson's first Mass. Corrected, Ed made it in 1875 and "serving" this Mass. 
New President of Association 
Muses Over Commencement; 
Gives Praise to Fr. Nieuv/land. 

Joe Murphy,—"Dayton, the Capi­tal of the World," arguing with Fred Steers as to the accuracy of their respective recollections; Joe's mem­orj' makes us wonder, his youthful­ness fills us with admiration. 
Ray Miller, Brother Don, Danny Hiltgartner, "Doc" Kramer, Jim San­ford, Dan Shouvlin, Professor de Landero, and such a host of others, all in this room 256; all glorious alumni, holding continuous meetings that will leave memories throughout the years. 
There's a young graduate hustling along with his suitcase and golf bag to a waiting car. Nestled among the clubs can barely be seen the top of an immaculately white paper tube— a badge of sacrifice, maybe, but sure­ly one of persistency and accomplish­ment which he will treasure for all time to com.e. 
JVIemories of a Graduate 

As he deposits his luggage he pauses to take one last look at all he is leaving behind and the experi­ences and the memories of a million minutes flash through his mind in the split part of a brief second. 
To Father O'Hara's room in the Main Building and to Father Walsh's in Dillon to say adieus but both were elsewhere. Then with my boy to Corby to show him my first room, and after that to the chapel in the 
ARTHUR J. HUGHES 
The New President 

basement of the church, the most hallowed spot in all my Notre Dame memory. 
I, too, lingered an instant, before going, for one last glance at this great scene. Then out into the West­ward, into the sinking sun, into the lengthening shadows of a new found responsibility — a responsibilitj' that I shall endeavor to share in the near future with you — members of the greatest Alumni Association that I know. 
No Program as Yet 

There has not, of course, been time to formulate an Alumni Associ­ation program of action for the com­ing year. Those of us in this new administration are confronted with high standards of accomplishment established by our predecesscrs under the able leadership of Bernard J. Voll, aided so sympathetically and so efficiently by the remarkably person­able Jim Armstrong and his able as­sistant, Bill Dooley. We must, there­fore, give serious thought to the matter of continuing the activities of our Association in as resultful a manner as they have been handled in the past. 
***** 

Since the foregoing was written, there has come upon all of us of Notre Dame the sorrowful realiza­tion of a severe loss — the passing of the great Father Nieuwland. He joined with us so happily in the fes­tivities of the Alumni Banquet on Saturday evening, when amidst the acclaim of the hundreds present, he was announced as the unanimous choice for the Honorary Presidency of the National Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
For his outstanding attainments in scientific accomplishment and re­search the -world had honored him, but to Father Nieuwland there was no honor comparable to the one which • we, the Alumni of Notre Dame had just conferred upon him; that, he knew came from the hearts of men—his fellowmen in that long line of graduates of the Notre Dame he loved so well and distinguished so highly. 
Thanks to a Divine Providence, we remembered Father Nieuwland in life; let us not forget him in death, 
(sig.) AHTHUK J. HUGHES, 
President of Association. 

Educating the Young Makes Better Citizens 
Eminent Medical Scholar Tells Graduating Class that Reverence for Education is Outstanding in America; Real Education, He Says, Trains the Mind to Think Rather Than to Memorize. 
By Dr. William J. Mayo, Rochester, Minnesota 
We meet today to felicitate you, the members of the 1936 graduating class of Notre Dame University, who are now ready to go about your life work. A sense of victory is at­tached to the occasion for you. About 16 or 18 years ago you began school. Out of each 100 boys and girls who started with you, 45 fin­ished the grammar school, five en­tered college, and one is now being graduated from college. In other words, the members of the class graduating today have been sifted out of several thousand students. You have won a great start for the adventure before you, having dem­onstx-ated that you have, in a reason­ably large measure, persistence, courage, intelligence, and character, from'which success is made. 
The occasion is perhaps, more than you know, also one of victory for your parents. Many of them have made sacrifices in order that you might be here today. They may justly feel rewarded. They may justly be proud of you. But at this time they are not looking backward. They are looking forward, filled with the hope that you will now use to the best advantage your training, your ability to think, and your cul­ture, for the achievement of civiliza­tion, and, before all, for the welfare of the community in which you are to live. 
American Reverence for Education The occasion, again, is a victory to the community and state. You are the young men who are to carry on the highest work of the state as those of us with gray hair let go. The idea that you are to do this work better than we touches the deepest feelings in us. You are our bond, so to speak, for the future prosperity and happiness of the peo­ple of the United States. In no other country in the world does just such a gathering as this occur, where the students of people from the entire range of our society come together on a basis of equality and are sent off on that basis to ren­der the highest known service. The outstanding feature of Amer­ican public life today is reverence for education. The cost of educa­tion borne by the American people 
(The Commencement Address) 

is greater than any other expense supported by the people and this burden is borne willingly, with the expectation that finer citizenship will he the result, and with the hope that the democi-atic form of government, to maintain which the nation has of­fered life and wealth in four great wars, shall be made safe and depend­able in the years to come. 
As one travels through the United States one is impressed by the splen­did school buildings seen in all sec­tions. In nearly every village, no matter how remote or how poor, will be a structure, the school building, which is magnificent compared with its surroundings, a source of pride to the inhabitants, and regarded by them as a hostage for the future. The school house is the proud monu­ment to the desire of the people that their children shall receive a better education than they themselves had. It is visible testimonial of their loy­alty to the country in which they live, and of their resolute determin­ation that its future shall be made secure, not by efforts of arms but by effoi-ts of intellect. Apparently there is an unconscious feeling that if we are to have the government we de­sire, and prosperity for all, it must come from education. 
DR. WILLIAM MAYO 
LL.D., '36. 

There is a divine discontent with the existing order of things which leads to progress. Youth is ever in­surgent, dissatisfied with conditions as they exist, and this state ot mind is necessary to progress. Youth has visions of the future which are not shared to an equal extent by those of middle and later age; youth is a builder, of images, a dreamer of dreams. When guided by scientific imagination, youth builds images to be compared with known facts, and dreams true dreams. 
Value of Youthful Viewpoint 
We of the older generation admit freely that our viewpoint has been greatly influenced by the misfortune through which we have passed. We believe too often, as our elders be­lieved, when we were young, that youth is headstrong, unruly, without due reverence for the established order of things. 
The older generation is always un­certain about the younger genera­tion. In the earlier time young peo­ple were kept innocent, perhaps ig­norant, with the expectation that innocence would be a protection to their morals and ethics. The young people are more sophisticated today, and perhaps because they know more of evil they will be better protected from it than they would had the so-called innocence of past generations been maintained. 
The old should remember that they represent the past, and that the young represent the future. For the best results, the wisdom of age must travel with the dreams of youth. Age carries mental scars left by experi­ence which shorten vision, but age carries wisdom. Youth and age should travel together; each needs the other for orderly scientific ad­vancement. Age, if it has gained something which is personal to the individual so that he has something to lose, will probably be conservative and will fear new experiences. Im­agination is the g^ft of youth. In my hospital ward rounds I am always surrounded by the younger men; I give them from my experience, and they give me their fresh viewpoint. 
A smart column writer recently said that culture is what a person 
254 The Notre Dame Alumnus June, 1936 
has left when he has forgotten what he learned in college. After I had had my laugh, I began to wonder whether there was not a good deal of truth in this definition of culture, for, after all, college education is supposed to teach us how to think as well as what to think. It is sup­posed to develop the power of rea­soning and observation, to fire the imagination. To repeat what we have memorized, of itself, is not more in effect than is done by a phonograph record, and perhaps is just about as informative. 
Questions Memorizing Tendency 
I sometimes question whether the present tendency to depend so much on memorizing knowledge gives a sound basis of education for the fu­ture. Knowledge is static, ^visdom is active and moves knowledge, mak­ing it effective. As I think back on my own classmates in college, I am impressed ^vith the fact that many of them who had fine memories and stood at the heads of their classes, in some way in the after years missed acquir­ing wisdom and did not come up to our expectations. Some students can fill their minds with any given sub­ject, book or chapter, and page, and can regurgitate this knowledge at examination and thereby win class leadership. Such memorizing of knowledge has not necessarily, a rela­tion to wisdom. After all, the best the college can do is to give the student breadth of knowledge, not necessarily depth of knowledge. 
As I look on the present day ten­dencies in higher education, I notice a remarkable difference from condi­tions as they existed when I was a college student. The valuation of culture for its own sake was then in the ascendency, and our eyes were fastened almost wholly on the past. And yet, knowledge of the past gave the foundation upon which has been built the present, and upon which we predict the future. 
Personally I have not been in sym­pathy with the view that because there are already so many well-trained men, something must be done to prevent younger men from enter­ing our professional schools. It cer­tainly is a sad commentary on our times if we introduce unnecessarj­obstructions and obstacles to prevent students from entering the profes­sions or to trap unwary students, so that they may be prevented from continuing their studies after their course is started, unless such pro­cedures result in turning out better men and are not merely evidence of an unconscious trade-union state of mind which tends to make a profes­sion an aristocracy. 
Let us not get the idea that there are too many doctors, too many law­yers, architects, engineers, nurses, grocers, coal-miners, and what not. -4s a matter of fact, it would appear that there are too many of all of us, yet that assumption of itself refutes the argument that we must reduce the number in each class. It is al­most a paradox that when we have too much of everything collectively, we worry most because we have too little individually. 
The history of a growing civiliza­tion teaches.the wisdom, in fact, the necessitj', in developing a commun­ity life, of loving one's neighbor as oneself. This precept is not only Biblically and historically true, but the peace of the world depends upon it. As we become more civilized we are beginning to emphasize not the differences that lead to antagonism but the common impulses and desires which lead to better understanding. 
Today is commencement day for you, and it means just what it says, not the end of education but the be­ginning of education which comes from living with our fellow men. General adult education progresses through books, newspapers and, to some extent, perhaps, through the radio and even the mo\ies, but it is a different kind of education from that begun in the schools and col­leges. Good roads and automobiles have enabled us to become better acquainted with different sections of the country, and if we are observ­ing, we begin to get the idea, after all, of the solidarity of the American people. 
The Love of Country 
What holds us together funda­mentally is respect and affection for our country. We love the American flag because it symbolizes that we are joined together for certain defin­ite life purposes. Let us not be dis­couraged by the fact that some of those among us, and especially young people, profess to scorn the Stars and Stripes and thereby refuse, by implication at least, to do their share in maintaining the welfare of all of us. So many who are discontented with their lot and condition believe that by criticism they are testifying to their natural desire for better­ment. What they really are testify­ing to is that for the time being they are not content to share the collec­tive responsibility of the people as a whole. 
The large majority of the citizens of the United States are reasonably intelligent, and, as far as their knowledge goes, are reasonably fair-minded. Let us admit that we are governed by the average man doing the best he can to adjust governmen­tal procedures to do justice to all, but subjected to all sorts and kinds of propaganda. Many of the pro­ponents of the various schemes and projects to cure our political ills, be­cause they cannot marshal facts to appeal to the intelligence, must therefore, to gain a hearing, appeal to the emotions, which are only too easily aroused by prejudice, invec­tive, and misleading statements. As a matter of fact, it appears at the present day to be quite the thing for some of the intellectual high-hats to try to prove that all the beliefs and institutions we hold dear are delu­sions. The so-called intelligentsia have been most vociferous in this di­rection; as an intelligent observer defined them: they are people who have been educated beyond their in­telligence. 
It is easy to philosophize; the philosopher is said to be one who bears with equanimity the sufferings of others. 
Philosophy and Psychology 
Dr. Morris Fishbein, in discussing the present social, political and economic trend, told the story of the philosopher and the psychologist. The philosopher, a blind man, in the middle of a dark night goes do'ivn into an unlighted cellar and hunts for a black cat that is not there; the psychologist is a blind man, who, un­der the same conditions, makes the same search and finds the cat. 
It is easy for all to recognize that a change is coming in the social con­dition of the people of the United States which ip a way is comparable to the change that is taking place in older countries through the elimina­tion of hereditary royalty and no­bility.. Fortunately it does not take the average American citizen long to recognize that radical change from a government "of the people, by the people, and for the people" which permits of free debate and expression of opinion would be disastrous. As a people, we realize how much better we are situated than are those peo­ples under the governments of Com­munism, Nazi-ism, or Fascism, which promptly become tyrannical in order to enforce, through fear, the view­point of an organized minority which eliminates debate, free thinking, and other fruits of education. But we must ever recognize that the ma jority of our people must have so satis­factory a social condition that they will not become so desperate as to be misled by pernicious propaganda of this description. 
One thing we all can agree upon is the value of education and faith that education will enable the young who are to take our places to solve their problems as we of the older generations solved ours. Out of this composite education we finally accept the idea that man does not live for himself alone but as an integral part of society. 
As one reviews the history of man, (Continued on'Fasc 277) 

June. 1936 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 255 
Christianity Is Built on Christ 
Baccalaureate Preache r Warns Graduates Asainst Scholars Who, Lured By a False Philos­ophy, Attempt to Establish a Christ-less Order. 
By Most Rev. Edward Mooney Archbishop of Rochester, N. V. 
(The Baccalaureate Sermon) 

This public act of divine worship in connection with your graduation exercises has its counterpart in hun­dreds of colleges and universities across the country. The unusual thing about it at Notre Dame, as compared to what it is in so many other seats of learning, is that here it is in no sense unusual. Every Sunday of the scholastic year has gathered the faculty and the student body of Notre Dame in yonder uni­versity church to render to God the same tribute of your public worship. Every day of the school term has brought hundreds of you to that church and to the many chapels of your residence halls in the common exercises of your private religious devotion. The enrichment of your religious life both in knowledge and in practice is essential in the policy of this institution. For it is founded on Christ; it counts it as a part of its responsibility to build your lives on Christ, to form your minds to the teachings of Christ, to . direct your aspirations to the ideals of Christ, to mould your souls to the example of Christ. If, through the service it has offered you, you have achieved a cei-tain proficiency in letters, in 
history, in philosophy, in physics, in chemistry, or in any of the sciences, in architecture, in engineering or in any of the fine or technical arts, without at the same time having achieved a corresponding degree of proficiency in Christian thinking and li\'ing, then, to that extent, this in­stitution on the wimess of its own standards has failed in your regard. This is not only a seat of learning; it is a school of Christian life. 
Not unnaturally then, as I looked about for a terse and trenchant ex­pression of the thought which I would put before you this morning as you come to the end of the years during which Notre Dame has tried to build your souls on Christ, I was struck by the words which St. Paul wrote to the men of Corinth whose souls he had rebuilt on Christ: "As a prudent master builder, I have laid the foundation and another buildeth thereon; but let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon; and no man can lay another foundation than that which is laid—^which is Jesus Christ." 1 Cor. Ill, 10-11. 
St. Paul and the Corinthians 

The full force of St. Paul's meta­phor was readily grasped by his Corinthian readers of the middle of the first century. Their proud city, which sat astride the isthmus joining Southern and Central Greece, had been completely • destroyed by the conquering legions of Rome 200 yeai-s before. Its rebuilding, begun by Julius Caesar, was still in prog­ress when St. Paul wrote, to be com­pleted only by Hadrian nearly half a century later. The citizens of Cor­inth were accustomed to the sight of massive foundations, of monumental public edifices on which the super­structure was slowly being raised— often by others than those who had begun the building. St. Paul saw in this familiar scene a picture of the spiritual edifice of the Corinthian Church which he had founded and then, called to new fields of labor, had left for others to complete. In 
ARCHBISHOP MOONEY 
LL.D., 'se 

his absence he had kept in touch with developments in Corinth, and he had evidently heard that the work of some new master did not square perfectly with his own. Therefore, he felt called upon to admonish the Christians of Corinth to see to it that 
.the superstructure they were rear­ing was solid, and that it followed the lines of the foundation he had laid. As for the foundation itself, it was set once for all—according to design that was the work of no man but of God Himself. "For," as he said, "we are God's helpers, you are God's building." That foundation then could not be tampered with: "As a prudent master builder, I have laid the foundation and another buildeth thereon; but let every man take heed how he buildeth there­upon; and no man can lay another foundation than that which is laid— which is Christ Jesus." 
Sets Pattern for Church 

The occasion of St. Paul's warning was a passing fact of merely local interest. The truth behind it is a permanent principle of universal ap­plication in all things Christian. Evi­dently it sets the pattern for the Christian Church in the world as it did for the Christian Church in Cor­inth. Plainly, too, it establishes a test for every institution that carries on any phase of Christian work. Clearly, as well, it points a lesson for the individual in the building of Christian character. 
For us it is a truism to say that Christianity is built on Christ—on the person of Christ, on the doctrine of Christ, on the authority of Christ, on the ordinances of Christ, on the ideals of Christ. Conversely, too, it it utterly plain in our reading of his­tory that Christ had in mind an or­ganization that was. to rise on the foundations He laid—on the doctrine He taught, on the authority He granted to men of His choosing, on the ordinances He established for them, on the ideals with which He inspired them. Yet both of these propositions, so clear to us who are heirs to the fullness of a Catholic tradition are by implication and 
256 
often in so many words gainsaid by millions about us who still call them­selves Christians. Our own age has witnessed the sad spectacle of Chris­tian scholars who, disturbed by the specious claims of destructive histori­cal criticism and lured on by the seductions of subjectivist philosophy, attempted to set up a new apologetic which would have justified "Chris­tianity without Christ." All around us are men of good will, but limited religious knowledge who, touched by the sublimity of Christ's character but cut off from the undying life of Christ's historic church and repelled by the ineffectiveness of some disin­tegrating sect, stand for what, if they stopped to fonnulate it clearly, would be "Christ \vithout Christi­anity." 
''Christianity Without Christ" 
The modernist, whose slogan might well be "Christianity without Christ," begins with the intellectual surren­der of the Christ of history as the basis of a Christianity whose spiri­tual and cultural values he would preserve. He lives in a superstruc­ture that has no base. Ho ends by seeing his house • of make-believe crumble under the impact of life's realities. 
The non-sectarian Christian, whose slogan might well be "Christ without Christianity," begins with the accept­ance of Christ in an utterly personal and largely emotional way. He fails to see Christ as a builder or as a foundation on which an organized Christianity was to be built. He ends by finding that he has no home for his Christian soul. Is it strange, then, that the non-sectarian Christian of one generation is logically the father of the neo-pagan of the next? 
Both the modernist and the non­sectarian Christian, who make up so large a part of the world in which your lives will be cast, have missed the obvious content or the eWdent implication of St. Paul's warning: "As a prudent master builder, I have laid the foundation and another buildeth thereon; but let every man take heed how he buildeth there­upon; and no man can lay another foundation than that which is laid— which is Christ Jesus." 
If I touch but lightly on these wider applications of the principle laid down by St. Paul, it is to dwell for a moment at least on some of the no less timely thoughts which it sug­gests in regard to your university and to yourselves. The growth of this university has surpassed the fondest dreams of its founder, but it is a story of growth, nor distor­tion. For its development has con­sistently followed the lines which in broad Christian vision that founder marked out. Father Sorin, when in 1843 he welcomed the first few sons The Notre Dame Alumnus 
of the woods and the prairie to the little square building that stood on the shores of St. Mar}''s Lake, might well have said with St Paul: "As a prudent master builder, I have laid the foundation and another buildeth thereon; but let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon; and no man can lay another foundation than that which is laid—^which is Christ Jesus." His successor of today, as he directs the manifold activities of this great school from beneath the golden dome that raises the significant figure of the earthly Mother of Christ and the heavenly mother of men over the busy scene of modem life, and dom­inates this noble group of buildings .that are the home of the spirit to well nigh three thousand students, can confidently meet the challenge of those words. In this he but car­ries on the tradition of his predeces­sors whose names are on the lips of returning alumni today and whose memory is in benediction in their hearts and yours. The sons of Sorin have kept faith with the founder of Notre Dame for they have continued to build on Christ the theory and the practice of full Christian thinking 
and living that is in honor here. 
Dechristianizing Culture 
To note how significant this fidel­ity is in an age that marks perhaps the climax of the progressive de­christianizing of university culture and, indeed, of general education outside of the restricted circle of Catholic influence, let me cite two brief but illuminating statements: the first is an excerpt from the reg­ulation laid down two centuries ago in one of the oldest of our American universities. It reads: "Let eveiy student be plainly instructed and earnestly pressed to consider well that the main end of his life and studies is to know God and Jesus Christ which is eternal life. And therefore lay Christ in the bottom as the only foundation of all sound knowledge and learning." The sec­ond statement is from the pen of one who for 22 years at the turn of the last century held a vantage post of obser\'ation in that same university. Describing the type of religion that was in honor there he writes: "Reli­gion was indispensable and sacred when not carried too far; but theol­ogj' might well be unnecessary. Why distract this world vrith talk of an­other? Enough for the day was the good thereof. Religion should be dis­entangled as much as possible from history, authority and metaphysics, and made to rest honestly on one's fine feelings, on one's indomitable optimism and trust in life. Revela­tion was nothing miraculous, given once for all in some remote age and foreign country, it must come to us directly and with greater authority now than ever before. If evolution was to be taken seriously and to in­
June, 1936 
clude moral growth, the great men of the past could only be stepping stones to our own dignity . . . Jesus was a prophet, more winsome and nearer to ourselves than His prede­cessors; but how could anyone deny that the 20 centuries of progress since His time must have raistd a loftier pedestal for Emerson or Channing or Philip Brooks? It might somehow not be in good taste to put this feeling into clear words; one and perhaps t^vo of these men would have deprecated this; nevertheless it beamed with refulgent self-satisfac­tion in the lives and maxims of most of their followers." That the con­trast here revealed in what is per­haps its mildest form presents not an isolated phenomenon, but rather a typical case' of modem American university development is a common­place of contemporary history. The Christian foundations of great and influential schools have been effec­tively sapped. The process has gone on almost imperceptibly and from within, like the destructive work of termites in a building. The super­structure has therefore sunk and sagged under its own weight until from without it presents a disordered pattern, and from within it gives a view of the world and of man's place in the world that is definitely lowered and ofttimes positively dis­torted—^like the view from the sag­ging floors of a sinking house. The pathetic results are evident all about us—nowhere perhaps more so than in the recent words of one of the foremost exponents of an unchristian educational philosophy who speaks of education as the adjustment of the growing mind to the chaotic condi­tions of the modem world. That statement, if it really means- what it obviously seems to mean, sums up a philosophy of confusion. It is the unconscious crj' of despair on the part of one who surrenders the hope that education without Christ can put order into life, or that there can be any stable foundation in principle for the complicated superstructure of modem unchristian education. 
Notre Dame Built on Christ 
In striking contrast, your Univer­sity stands high and firm on the foundation of faith in Christ but­tressed by the rock of authority in Peter which Christ Himself set in place. It stands high enough to give you—^through the windows of science that light its superstructure—a view of the world and of men that is in proper perspective. It does not shut out the distant horizons that reveal the eternal hills. It enables you to look back over the realities of history and to see, as one of our keenest ob­servers puts it, that if you take away from man the supernatural, strange­ly enough you have left not the na­
(Continued on PaKC 270) 

Culture and Science Inter-twined 
The Past 60 Vears Have Witnessed the Accept­ance of the Belief that Science and Scientific Thought Have an Essential Part in True Culture. 
(The 

It seems appropriate on this occa­sion to consider for a short time what thoughtful men believe has been one of the most important de­velopments during the past sixty years. I refer to the change that has taken place in the idea of educated people as to what constitutes culture. 
At the beginning of the peiiod un­der review jVrnold's definition of the meaning of culture was generally accepted, namely, "to know the best that has been thought and said in the world" in the fox-m of criticisms of life as recorded principally in the hu­manistic literatures, especially of Greek, Roman and Oriental antiqui­ties. Science and the scientific habit of thought, in the opinion of that day, had no place in cultural educa­tion. In fact they were considered to have no value at all for forming critical analyses of life. 
Huxley Challenges Old View 
In 1880 in a scholarly and stirring speech at the opening of Mason Col­lege, Birmingham, England, now the University of Bix-mingham, Thomas Huxley vigorously challenged this contention. He declared that no per­son could be considered cultured who had not recognized the necessitj' of scientific discipline and who had not adopted the scientific habit of thought in relationship with fellow­men, things and life in general. He enunciated a new definition which has been gradually adopted as a basis of liberal education as the impor­tance of the scientific method was recognized. He agreed with the Classicists "that a criticism of life is the essence of culture," but disagreed with their contention "that literature alone contains the materials which suffice for the construction of such a criticism." He maintained that cul­ture means more than mere learning or technical skill. It implies the possession of an ideal and the habit of critically estimating the value of things by comparison with a definite 
standard. Perfect culture should apply a complete philosophy of life based upon a clear knowledge alike of its possibilities and its limitations." He 
By Francis P. Garvan President of the Chemical Foundation 
 Address at the Laying of the Biolosy Build'ms Corner-stone) 
did not believe this could be done if. the individual was ignorant of the great body of facts, known as science, and the procedure of appraising them, kno-ivn as the scientific method. The general acceptance of this opinion today by people in all walks of life is the culmination of a change of mind over a period of 60 years which in my opinion, opens a way for an advance in civilization unparalled in any previous time. The scientist is no longer considered a sorcerer nor the method he uses legerdemain. The contributions of science to human happiness and well - being have demonstrated that its methods must 
be essential parts of the educational and cultural equipment of any person who expects to understand and successfully solve the problems of life that confront him and his fellow-men. 
The strong opposition which this change of attitude met for years was finally overcome by the eminent sci­ence leaders in our great universities. The contributions to knowledge and to human welfare that have come 
FRANCIS P. GARVAN 
LL.D., 'SB 

from the laboratories of these insti­tutions have had such a profound effect upon the lives of our people and upon the building up and main­tenance of our great nation that people in every walk of life today, except in the field of politics, look confidently to the methods of science for the solution to their problems. The abandonment of the idea held for centuries that knowledge of practical or utilitarian kinds has no cultural value removes a barrier that 
has separated important groups of our people to the disadvantage of society in general. The contributions from the laboratories of Notre Came rank high in the scientific world. With great scientists like Father Nieuwland at work the outlook for the betterment of the human race is bright. Thank God for the rare visions and bold imaginations, of men like Fr. Nieuwland, Milliken, XJrey, Compton, Langmuir, Abel, Wood, Morgan, and a hundred of other equally able American scientists who are at work on the frontiers of science and who are teaching and firing the imaginations and enthusi­asms of the students of our univer­sity classes. It is particularly grati­fying the extent to which science survey courses are included in the cultural study groups in the liberal arts curricula of our universities. 
Science Touches Lives Intimately 
Although I was not trained in science, my association with science and my observation of their methods and the results they have obtained led me to believe that there are few human problems. Whether social, political, enonomic or international that cannot be solved by their methods. 
Science touches our lives so in­timately that we take its reactions for granted without even taking the trouble to acquaint ourselves even with its simplest laws. 
Let us consider for a few moments that branch of natural science we call "Chemistry." Human beings as well as all other living things are creatures of chemical action. Moti­vated by the energj' of the sun and with the aid of natural catalysts simple substances such as carbon, hydrogen, oxygen , nitrogen, and other elements are built up into complex living organisms by Nature's chemical processes in accordance with the Creator's orderly methods, which we call natural law. 
"What Is Life?" 
The building up, maintenance and 
disintegrating processes of living 
things we call "biological chemistry." 
So intimately are we connected with 
chemistry and physics that all of our 
activities, our tools, food, clothes, 
pleasures, our diseases, and our pas­
sions are produced and controlled by 
them. The age old question, "'WTiat 
is life?" still persists. Biologists and 
their co-workers in allied branches 
of science are giving us daily from 
their laboratories bits of new knowl­
edge that give little by little a clearer 
picture of the complex mechanisms 
of life processes. This knowledge 
gives us new controls that enable us 
to eradicate disease and maintain 
our body and mental processes in 
normal and efficient order. Physical 
laboratories, such as we are dedicat­
ing here today, must eventually make 
known the sum total of the material 
energies that contribute to life, their 
interaction on one another, their 
functioning as agents in man and in 
the race. The possession of these 
finely equipped laboratories lays a 
heavy responsibility upon this Uni­
versity. Staffed with a competent 
personnel, they pro^nde the means by 
which the large student body of this 
University may learn the scientific 
habit of thought and get that disci­
pline, so important in modem life, 
that comes only from working with 
the experimental methods of science 
and which imparts a culture that will 
have a stabilizing eflFect upon their 
critical judgments throughout their 
lives. 
There is another responsibility that goes with the possession of a labora­tory like this one. In addition to providing the means for the cultural discipline of science, it provides the means for studying and solving some of the vexatious and formidable problems that confront our people and the nation today. 

. To mention just one of many, I cite the Farm Problem that affects half of our population directly and the other half indirectly. One of the most important parts of this great problem is "What to do with farm product surpluses?" The answer to this problem seems to be the develop­ment of new non-food uses for crops and products that are now produced and the development of new crops that can be used by industry. The solution of these problems fall prin-
The Notre Dame Alumnus June. 1936 
Biology Building Under Construction 
New Science Structure Will Aid Both in Teaching and Research. 
Construction of a §300,000 biology building at the University was begun on June 1 and is now well under way. 
As a part of the annual class day Commencement exercises, the comer-stone of the new building was laid by Francis P. Garvan, founder of the Chemical Foundation of New York. 
The purpose of this new biology building is to provide facilities for the teaching of all di^'isions of bio­logical sciences, and to aid in gradu­ate research. Unusual features of the hall will include a photomicrographic laboratorj' that will be constructed so as to "float" within the structure, eliminating all vibrations. The deli­cate instruments in this room will be housed in concrete benches weighing several tons. 
Several rooms in the building will be air conditioned for humidity and temperature for housing animals on which experiments will be performed. Other rooms will include a culture room where dangerous germs which are used in the study of immunology will be transferred, a sterilization room, a dark room and a machine shop. 
The three-storj' building will be 240 feet in length, with tivo wings each 150 feet long and 75 feet wide. It will be built on a flexible unit plan so that departments and laboratories may be enlarged or diminished with­out structural changes. Every avail­able bit of exterior wall space will he 

cipally into the fields of biology and industrial biological chemistrj'. The nation is looking at this time to sci­entists in these fields with the hope and expectation that these most pressing problems will be solved quickly. The situation is serious. K these laboratories with their fine equipment can make practical con­tributions to the solutions of these problems, Notre Dame will be the recipient of the blessings of a grate­ful people. 
I have strong faith in the belief that Notre Dame's fine tradition in the field of science will continue. I congratulating you on the possession of a fine, new instrument for creat­ing in the minds of men the scientific habit of thought and for disseminat­ing a culture that forms a sound basis for the constructive criticism of life. 
I have not dwelt on the phase of made into windows to provide suffi­
cient natural light. 
The first floor of the building will be devoted entirely to the labora­tories of bacteriology, immunology and hygiene. No furniture on this floor will be stationary. All desks will be portable with gas and water hook-ups provided for. The second floor will be used for class rooms, a large lecture hall, the dean's suite and administrative offices, as well as the special libraries, herbaria and reading roofs. The top floor will house the laboratories of embryology, histology, botany and forestry. In addition there will be a greenhouse provided with desert, tropical and temperate conditions. 
The new building is to be located about 150 feet south of the Univer­sity steam plant on the west side of the Eddy street road. The biology hall will face the gymnasium. 
The building was designed under the direction of Rev. Francis J. Wen­ninger, C.S.C., dean of the College . of Science; and Professor James A. Reyniers, professor of biology who recently discovered for research sci­ence a method of' producing germ-free guinea pigs. 
Thomas L. Hickey, Inc., South Bend contractors, -nill construct the building. Maginnis and Walsh, of Bos­ton, Massachusetts, were the archi­tects. 
reli^on in culture or religion in sci­ence, for all of- you know well that religion embraces and elevates all culture and all science. 

There is no conflict between reli­gion and science. Twenty years of association with the gi-eatest scien­tists of our day has convinced me of the deep religious sentiment dominat­ing the lives and thought of practi­cally all of our great scientists. The part the Catholic Church has played and is playing in science is testified to by the lives of the men on this campus and is expressed in the dedi­cation of this building. 
The history of our Church speaks for itself. The history of the activ­ities of this college speaks for itself. May the Catholic teachers and pupils who are given an opportunity to work in this laboratory be worthy of the traditions of science and be worthy of the traditions of the Holy Roman Catholic Church. 
President of University Outlines N.D. Progress 
Father O'Hara Emphasizes Development in Scientific Research, Tells of Plans for Immedi­
ate Future, Particularly in Apologetics Field. 
The traditional word of welcome seems a bit trite If spoken this year, because the campus has already opened its arms to welcome you. When on your arrival you stepped into the Plaza, the green arms of this new park with quiet dignity folded you to the bosom of Notre Dame. I know that some of you have rubbed your eyes in amaze­ment. Those of you who have been away for a long time have said to yourself: "Can this be Notre Dame?" If you pushed on a few steps and passed the old porter's lodge that once marked the ultima thule of Notre Dame life, you have rubbed your eyes again and said: "Yes, this is Notre Dame." There seems to be a silent understanding among us all that the Quadrangle must not be touched. It must remain as a sanc­tuary hallowed with memories of great and good men who are gone. It must remain as living evidence of the continuity that holds together the life of a University. We want this evidence for the old boys that Notre Dame is still the place they knew and loved. We want them to know that it still inspires boys as it did in the days of Father Cavanaugh and Father Thomas Walsh, and Fa­ther Corby, and Father Granger, and Professor Edwards, and Father Sorin. 
Yes, it is still the old Notre Dame, flowering as the founders hoped and prayed it would flower. In this year's alumni reunion and commencement program we have chosen to empha­size the University's development along lines of sicentiflc research, and in this again we are going back to earlier days to recall achievements which some of you can recount per­haps better than I. Some of the older men here present studied either physics or chemistry under Father Zahm, who was the star pupil of Father Carrier, who, in turn, was the founder of the science courses at Notre Dame, back in 1867. It was Father Carrier who was sent to Eu­rope by Father Sorin to beg, borrow, or buy as much scientific equipment as he could secure; he came back laden with scientific instruments and museum pieces. Among the scien­tific instruments was the six-inch tel­
By Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., 'II 
(An Address at the Alumni Bnnquct) 
escope which Napoleon III presented to the University. Father Zahm's pupils will recall his pioneer work in vibration, sound and music, as well as his te.vt on that subject, which re­mained an authority for forty years. They will recall also his many writ­ings in apologetics which poured oil on waters troubled by Huxley and Spencer. They will recall that it was Father Zahm who built the pres­ent ocience Hall, where he spent days and nights in physical research. 
The Zahm Brothers 

When administi-ative duties im­posed by his superiors withdrew Fa­ther Zahm from his laboratories, it was his brother. Dr. Albert Zahm, who became the leader of scientific research at Notre Dame. While .A.1­bert developed many original ideas in the laboratories here, his special fondness was for the conquest of the air, and during the years from 1880 to 1895 Albert carried verj- far the research in aerodjiiamics that were later to make possible the flight of heaviei--than-air machines. It was, of course, the development of the in­ternal combustion engine that even-
FATHER O'HAKA 
Tells of Progress. 

tually furnished the power to send airplanes aloft, but this was done on wings fashioned largely as a result of Albert Zahm's studies in soaring and gliding, many of which studies were made in the laboratories of Science Hall. Father Carrier and Father Zahm have passed to their reward; Albert Zahm is still active and vigorous in his post at the Li­brary of Congress, where he holds the Guggenheim Chair of Aeronaut­ics. He has just finished a term as honorary president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
Chronologically, the next outstand­ing product of the Notre Dame lab­oratories was wireless telegraphy. Professor Jerome Green worked for several years on the possibility of Hertz rays being a means of com­munication through the air without the aid of telegraph wires. In Europe, young Guglielmo Marconi worked along similar lines on the same problem. In March, 1899, Mar­coni announced his plan for experi­ments with wireless communication across the English Channel. In this speech he described a particular form of condenser that he would use, and Professor Greene saw in this the last step that was eluding him. Their ex­periments were almost simultaneous, and were equally successful. After establishing wireless communication on the campus and between the cam­pus and South Bend, Professor Greene went to Chicago in May, and there conducted successful tests, first between tall buildings in the loop, and later between a tug on Lake Michigan and the water tower on the shore. 
Father Nieuwland was the next scientist to bring Notre Dame inter­national renown. After iinishing his classical course at Notre Dame in 1899, Father Nieuwland spent five years at. the Catholic University in Washington, where he studied chem­istry and botany on the side while he was making Ws theological stud­ies. Five years later he returned to Notre Dame where he began his pa­tient work in the two sciences in which he has achieved singular fame. He made botanical slides and sold 
260 The Notre Dame Alumnus June, 1936 
them for the money to build up the chemistry library; he later used re­turns from his researches in chemis­try to fill out the library of botany —^to which was added, in course of time, the magnificent Edward Lee Greene collection. In library facili­ties for these two particular depart­ments, Notre Dame stands well among the best universities of the country. 
Saves $350,000,000 Yearly 

In the 32 years that have passed since Father Nieuwland began his career of teaching and research at Notre Dame, he and his students have added thousands of plants to the world's herbarium, and have added hundreds of formulae to the world's knowledge of chemistry. A catalog- of these achievements would be out of place here, but specific mention should be made of the basic research that made possible the de­velopment of sjTithetic rubber. Mr. Francis Garvan, founder and presi­dent of the Chemical Foundation, who is our guest here tonight, has calculated that this discovery of Fa­ther Nieuwland has saved the rubber industry of this country the stagger­ing sum of $350,000,000 a year, and he bases his calculation on the aver­age price of SO cents a pound to which the Dutch-English cartel had pushed natural rubber when Malay plantation rubber was a monopoly, as compared with the price of 13 cents a pound to which the i-aw prod­uct dropped when these monopolists found it advisable to retard the de­velopment of the synthetic product. 
In appreciation of this work of Father Nieuwland, Mr. Garvan, TOth a gift of $10,000, established last year the Julius A. Nieuwland Fund for the Development of Chemistry and Allied Sciences. This year, Mr. Garvan has added generously to his benefaction for this same cause. He has established ten fellowships of $900 each, five of them to be oper­ative this fall, and five the follow­ing year. He has also made a gift of $10,000 to purchase books and periodicals for cheraistrj' and allied sciences. 
A t tomorrow's Commencement, four students will receive the doc­torate in chemistry and one the master's degree in this science. The Departments of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering have shown a 10% increase in registration during the past year. Twenty-five Seniors' will receive the degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering at tomorrow's Commencement. The large Chemistry Building, opened in 1918, is proving entirely too small. New laboratory facilities were pro­vided this year by moving the Chem­istry Library to a separate building, but unless additional laboratory space can be provided for the next 
school year, it will be necessary to restrict very seriously the number of Freshmen admitted in the fall. 
The Department of Metallurgy, which was separated from the De­partment of Chemistry when the John F. Gushing Hall of Engineer­ing was opened five years ago, has shown remarkable results and has at­tracted a large number of students. The increase of graduate work in this department has made it neces­sary to add another member to the faculty, and Dr. Carl F. Floe, now at the State College of Washington, ^rill assume his duties in this depart­ment next September. The Univer­sitj' has expended more than $5,000 this year for new equipment for re­search in metallurgy, and we may announce now the addition of a metal-working lathe as a gift from John J. O'Brien, and the late Miles O'Brien, his brother. It is worthy of notice that the students in aero­nautical engineering will follow a total of 13 credit hours in metal­lurgy, an amount which, I believe, is considerably in excess of that given to such students in any other Ameri­can engineering college. The quest for lighter and more dui-able mate­rials for aeronautical engineering seems endless, and we are trying to equip our students to do their share of research in this important depart­ment. It should be mentioned, in passing, that the students of aero­nautical engineering, under the di­rection of Professor Brown, have designed and are constructing a wind-tunnel, which will be ready for use in September. 
Electro-Static Generator 

Considerable attention has been attracted locally by the new venture in Physics undertaken by Dr. Collins and Mr. Coomes, under the direction of Dr. Caparo. These tsvo profes­sors, with two graduate assistants, spent last summer constructing at the University an electro-static gen­erator, consisting essentially of a 12­foot copper ball, capable of produc­ing potentials greater than one and one-half million volts. In conjunc­tion -irith this generator, a glass tube nine inches in diameter and 24 feet long, has been set up and evacuated to one ten-millionth of an atmosphere. .\s far as we know, it is the largest vacuum tube in the world. With this equipment, research in nuclear physics is to be started soon. In particular, production and study of the newly-discovered positive elec­tron is planned. The program also includes investigation of corona at very high voltages, a problem in high-voltage power transmission. 
During the past year, two of our graduate students have developed a new method of measuring X-ray in­tensities, the results of which will be published in the proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science. To aid in the development of research in nuclear physics, the University has engaged for the faculty next year Dr. Arthur Haas, former head of the Department of Physics at the University of Vienna. Dr. Haas has won world-wide recognition as a theoretical physicist, and has written several volumes on theoretical and atomic physics, several of which have been translated into English. His most recent work has been in the field of relativity, and his latest pub­lication was last month. Dr. Haas gave several lectures at Notre Dame during a visit this spring, and his personality has charmed all who met him on that occasion. 
Recent developments in the De­partment of Biology have created wide attention. Successful research in the department has led to the dis­covery of a new method of isolating single cells, to the development of a mechanical means for counting and classifying bacteria, and to the very important establishment of a tech­nique for the production of germ-free animals. This work has been done under the direction of Father Wenninger, Dean of the College of Science, and has been developed by Professor J. Arthur Reyniers. Dur­ing the past two years, Mr. Reyniers has received extraordinary help from a graduate assistant, Mr. Philip Trexler. The great importance of the germ-free animal is that it con­stitutes a living test-tube. An an­imal that is free of bacteria may he inoculated with a specific germ, and the experimenter will know that the reaction will not be complicated by t^venty-five of thirty other germs in the bodj'. 
Developn:ent of All Departments 

To assist in the development of this work, and to provide adequate laboratory space for the increased enrollment in the College of Science, the University this morning laid the comer-stone of a new Biology Build­ing. The full development of work, with germ-free animals, however, must await the creation of an Insti­tute of Bacteriology. A fund of one and one-half million dollars must be sought for this particular work. The Department of Chemistry will benefit to some extent by the open­ing of the Biology Building, since certain chemistry laboratories can be opened in the quarters now occupied by Biology in the present Science Hall. The fact that Science Hall is not fire-proof places very strict limi­tations on the kind of laboratories that can be opened there. 
With so much attention given to Science, it would be a mistake to suppose that other departments of the University are being neglected. 
(Continued on Pase 274) 

June. 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 261 
President Voll Stresses Insurance, Placement 
Summarizes Investigation of Directors Into Two Important Fields of Alumni Activity; Discusses Vexing Financial Problems of Association. 
By Bernard J. Voll. '17 

(An Address at the Alumni Banquet) 
It is customary after one has held the presidency of an organization such as the National Alumni Associ­ation for a year to render some ac­count of his stewardship and to report to the membership - at - large on the present status of the organization. 
We have departed somewhat from the traditional this year in that the secretary's report, which really con­tains the "meat" of the year's 
•work, has been printed and each one of you has received a copy. It is to be hoped that you will carefully peruse its contents and become a little better acquainted with your association—its advantages to you and to the University and, likewise, the obligations which it has incurred. The report indicates that a modest amount of progress has been made, but I feel better indicates that much more might been accomplished if the tools were at hand with which 
BERNIE VOLL 

to do the work. I think, without ques­
President Emeritus

tion, we have the ablest alumni sec­
retary that any association of its kind 
can possibly have. He not only rep­sense of modesty, but simply the feel­ing, after studying the affairs of the resents us exceedingly well in our Alumni Association from the top so own groups wherever he goes, but he to speak, that there was much more has been especially influential and to be accomplished than seemed to his talents recognized in other asso­be humanly possible within the space ciations to which we belong. I only of one year or even a number of regret that his capacities have not years. The possibilities of service to been utilized to their fullest extent the members of the association upon because of lack of facilities. Reduced the part of this organization are tre­to a more simplified form, that means mendous. In order to realize the full lack of finances. This modest assump­effects from those possibilities, time tion of progress of which I made and money without stint must be mention a moment ago is due entirely spent upon organization actiWties. I to the work of Jim Armstrong and had neither in unlimited quantities. 
his able assistant. Bill Dooley. I com­Nevertheless, I am deeply and sin­mend his report to your most earnest cerely grateful for this honor and attention and I trust that your inter­proud of the opportunity of carrying 
est, after reading it, will be sufficient­the banner of this Association for the ly aroused so that you will leave here past year. 
definitely committed to some form of 
affirmative action regarding the Na­May I, with your permission, in tional Association. 
brief retrospect touch lightly upon some of the more important phases For my own personal part—^you of this year's work. 
elected me to one of the highest posi­tions within your powers. It was to­
Insurance 

tally unexpected and, 1 am afraid, un­deserved. I return the office to you Almost two years ago at a direc-­or to my successor with the knowl­tor's meeting in Chicago, Harry Mil­edge that my service has been alto­ler, at that time immediate past presi­gether inadequate. This is not be­dent of the association, requested that cause of any failure to do the things a study be made of the possibility of required and expected nor any false the University accepting an agency to act as a depository whereby from time to time an alumnus, having a boy whom he expected to send to the University, could place money at in­terest so that when the time arrived for the boy or boys to enter college all or part of the tuition would have been paid. Obviously, the purpose was to ease the financial strain which is crowded into four years and which, frequently, becomes more acute with two or three children in college at the same time. 
This request has not been lost sight of but has been studied rather care­fully by your directors and a number of other interested alumni from the point of view of the alumnus and also the University. 
Advantages 

Advantages to the alumnus would seem to be, first of all, a definite amount of money on deposit with the University at the time his son matric­ulates. It is on deposit with the Uni­versity which he expects his son to at­tend and that University has assumed responsibility for its safe-keeping. A further advantage would seem to ex­ist in the unusual security afforded. 
Corporations, in the ordinary busi­ness sense as we know them, have a verj' high mortality rate, whereas educational institutions certainly, if they are once definitely established, seem to go on unchallenged for many years. Soon Notre Dame will cele­brate her hundredth anniversary, which alone is more security than any business corporation would af­ford. In other words, the alumnus, if such a plan were put into effect, could deposit regularly a specified amount of money over a period of years to draw some stated amount of interest, that money to be available at the time the boy is ready for col­lege. In addition, you have the knowl­edge that, insofar as the money de­posited would pay f^r his education, your boy would receive it at your Alma Mater. There seems to be no disadvantages from the point of view of the alumnus. 
As regards the University, there would seem to be the advantage of having, after the fund became firmly established and utilized by the alum­ni, a steady stream of students which could easily, in the course of 25 to 50 years, tax the capacity of the school and certainly would insure its per­petuation as an educational insti­tution. 
Secondly, money coming in from a fund such as this could be used tem­porarily and with a high degree of safety in furthering the much needed building program at the University. 
Now as to the disadvantages from the point of view of the School. The investment problem beyond the Uni­versity's own buildings looms as a very large one. Having just recently passed through a very critical period in the financial history of the coun­try, it is not difficult to visualize this problem and the reluctance with which Notre Dame or any other in­stitution is likely to accept such a responsibility. This question is in­tensified by the one of moral respon­sibility, which the University would naturally feel, to educate the boy if losses were sustained and which could conceivably become a very serious burden. 

Second, interest earned and cred­ited to the account of the alumnus might be less than an outside invest­ing corporation could secure. This could be accounted for by the attempt upon the part of the University to re­duce risk. Another point is a possi­bilitj' of the death of the alumnus when the fund was only partially completed and there was insufficient money to carry the son through the four years of college. This could prove quite embarrassing to the Uni­versity, inasmuch as there would be a feeling upon the part of the boy that, if possible, he should be given a job and the money available stretched over a longer period than ordinarily would be expected, — an­other potentially dangerous burden for the school. 
It appears probable, in some cases at least, that the boy, upon arriving at the college age, may not want to come to this Universi^, or he may not be able to meet the University's requirements, in which cases we have an embarrassment to both the Uni­versity and the alumnus, but I sup­pose these objections could be sur­mounted by returning the money. 
While studying this question, ap­parently the most practical plan of all to be presented was that of an in­surance policy. We are all familiar with educational policies which life insurance companies have, but none of them seemed to fit the case ex­actly. However, we secured one insurance company — and doubtless others will do so — which has sub­mitted a policy running directly to the University as beneficiary with the usual educational provisions. It would necessitate, at the time of is­suance, a contract of performance by the University in order to complete 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
the transaction. It is practically a 15 year endowment policy and for a small monthly or annual premium one can insure the education of his son at the University of Notre Dame. For those of us who are older and whose children are either at the col­lege age or very close to it the prob­lem is not nearly so simple. But for the younger men whose children are three or under, this would seem to present an ideal solution to a vexing and difficult problem of the future. 
Nothing definite regarding specific terms of this policy can be stated at this time. The entire matter has been placed in the hands of the University for further study and for final dis­position and we are now awaiting its decision. I feel quite confident, how­ever, that definite announcements re­garding this question will be made by the -A.ssociation within the coming year. In the meantime, I trust that you will give it some thought, espe­cially so since it was proposed by one of our members who has a number of sons to attend the University and certainly his opinion on the matter, especially since he is a past president of the association familiar to a large extent with problems of the individ­ual alumnus, is worthy of careful consideration. 
Placement 

Your Board of Directors has stud­ied at great length the question of placement—not alone for the younger members of the organization, but also for many of the older ones who have been unwilling victims of this tremen­dous economic upheaval through which we have just passed. Except for the occasional notices in the ALUMNUS regarding positions desired and positions available in a national way we are doing nothing to help the situation. Locally, through the efforts of individuals and committees in the Clubs throughout the country very fine results have been achieved, and I should like at this time to commend these men who have done so much to help those fellow alumni who have been less fortunate than they. 
In talking to the Senior Class yes­terday, I called attention to what we firmly believe to be one of the finest services which one Notre Dame man can render to another and that is to help him to get started in the business or professional world, and that, while we had no authentic records regard­ing this subject, nevertheless, from personal contacts over the past 20 years, we could state very frankly that hundreds of our men had been helped to advantageous positions by members of this organization. 
We further told them that their names had been sent to the local clubs where they list their homes and that those who needed help in securing po­
June, 1936 

sitions we knew would receive favor­able consideration at the hands of their fellow alumni and that some of them, at least, would receive definite help in the form of positions. 
This subject merits your most ear­nest consideration and is one service which you can render that will be most deeply appreciated and one that very properly represents the greatest need. I have further pledged to these young men that no true Notre Dame man will ever fail to see them upon call nor will he be too busy to listen to their story and, if it be within his power, to do so will extend a helping hand provided they need it. I like­wise called attention to some very definite obligations which they owe us as older members of the organization when asking help to secure positions but which I shall repeat tonight. 
To return again to our original thought, if we are to be effective in a national way, regarding the place­ment question it is essential that some central bureau be established where the names and occupations of all members of the association can be recorded and an exchange service maintained so that positions wanted and positions available can be brought to the attention of these men quickly enough to be of some defi­nite benefit. Four openings for ex­ecutive positions came to the atten­tion of your officers last year. These positions called for men highly traine d and skilled in certain branches of industry and business. So far as we know none of them were filled by Notre Dame men because there were no records from which to choose men as potential candidates for the positions and opportunities such as this frequently cannot await an issue of the ALUMNUS. 
An important adjunct to this place­ment service is one which must be performed on the campus and that is a personal history record of every student from the time he enters until he graduates. I am happy to say that this work has been renewed after a lapse of some years and that the record of this year's Freshmen is now available. It will be three years be­fore a complete record has been established but from that time on the history of each student during his term at the University will be on file. This record seems absolutely essen­tial when one is called upon to rec­ommend men for positions. 
From this humble beginning, which is not in a sense a beginning but sim­ply a re-establishment of a practice once in effect, I wish we might pur­sue it to a logical conclusion. That is—^pick up the individual record up­on graduation and place it in a cen­tral exchange bureau where it can be of some service to the individual and 
(Continued on PaRe 272) 

June. 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 263 
SECRETARY'S REPORT 
June I. 1935 to June I, 1936 
Lechner, '37, a South Bend boy, and developed to pleasing proportioiis during his editorship. 
Outstanding during the year for feature characteristics, was the spe­cial Convocation Issue, describing the 
MEMBERSHIP: 
Membership, in the Association, as interpreted by dues paid, is of course discouraging. Excluding some thou­sand priests, nuns and honorary mail­ings, there are approximately 7,500 lay, male alumni on the Association mailing list. Allowing liberally for unemployment, low wages, lack of interest, and other adverse factors, there should still be more than 1,349 paying the five dollars annual dues. That is the paid-up membership fig­ure for 1935-36. 
It does represent a 10% increase over the preceding year. And letters, returns from long silent members, and other indications, indicate a bet­ter outlook this year. The difficulty is that 10% will not begin to cover our needs. We must have double the number, to succeed independently. 
On the right side of the ledger, aside from finances,—and this is the reason why the Association, through the cooperation of the University, has continued to mail the .-VLUMNUS to everyone — there has been unprece­dented membership activity. The roster of dues paid is not more than the beginning of the list of men who have worked in the year's great Local Club program; who have helped greatly in the contacting of prospec­tive students; who have been present at football games; who have brought publicity and prestige to the Univer­sity through individual or group ac­tivity. 
The ALUMNUS: 
As in past years, the ALUMNUS is the universal bond between Notre Dame men, bringing through the Class and Club notes those priceless news items of friends that are in­creasingly few through personal cor­respondence. Through its campus de­partments, news, athletics, president's page, and features, the picture of Notre Dame, and such a changing picture, has kept the distant, and even the less distant, alumnus informed and prepared him for the breath-tak­ing panorama that is Notre Dame today. The work of the Alumni Of­fice has branched out greatly. This seems a most fitting place to pay special tribute to William K. Dooley, '26, whose attention to the details of the ALUMNUS have resulted in its greatly increased interest and effec­tiveness. 
The magazine this year, through the cooperation of the faculty and 
brilliant recognition of Philippine in­
University Radio Studios, put into 
dependence at Notre Dame. This edi­
effect the policy of publishing short, 
tion was widely used by the Univer­timely articles by members of the sity in response to the demands for faculty. These seemed to meet with the addresses of thai day. A de luxe, reader interest. leather-bound volume of the issue 
was presented to the principals who 
The pages of the two presidents— 
participated. 
University and Association — seemed to meet with interest and response. 
Joseph Petritz, '32, director of athletic publicity, deserves praise here LAW DIRECTORY: for the splendid sports section, in 
Partly in the ALUMNUS department 
which he achieves a great deal in 
and partly in that unsung but vital 
comparatively little space. 
departments of records, comes the The campus page was conducted Law Directory. Published in tenta­this year by a student journalist, John tive form as a part of the December, 
TREASURER'S REPORT 
June I, 1935 to June I, 1936 
Balance  on hand June  1, 1935  _  $ 931.69  
Receipts, June 1, 1935 to June 1, 1936:  
Dues  6948.75*  
Living Endowment  194.00**  
Advertising,  ALUMNUS  :.  919.13***  
Subscription  and miscellaneous income  315.32****  
Total  Receipts  $9308.89  

* Dues this year represent a 20% increase in amount over 1934-35. 
** Living Endowment is less. No drive was made and many gifts were given directly to University projects that would ordinarily be listed under this heading. • • 
*** Advertising receipts show a 40% increase, gross, over last year. Some extra effort, involving substantial commissions, was made to develop this source of revenue. 
**** This item is considerably higher than last year's, because several activ­ities, such as the fund for the radio extension over WIND, cleared through the Association's books. 
Expenditures, June 1, 1935 to June 1, 1936: Postoffice, Notre Dame •- ?1035.21 Office Expenses (Tel. and Tel., Equipment, etc.) 709.84 Office Salaries :.v 4935.00 Printing and Engraving _;— 1309.58* Miscellaneous (Adv. Com., travel e.xpense, radio, etc.) 960.46 
Total Expenditures : $8950.09 
* The University was asked to assume less of the printing cost of the ALDMNUS this year, the Association Kaving paid more than $1,000 on accoimt to the Ave Maria Press. 
.::. $358.80 

Balance on hand, June 1, 1936.. 
(Sig.) James E. Armstrong, '25 
Secretary-Treasurer 
The Notre Dame Alumnus June. 1936 
1935, ALUMNUS, this directory listed, geographically, the names and ad­dresses of 650 Notre Dame men prac­ticing law. Since its publication, the list has acquired at least 100 addi­tional names not previously on our records which were published in sub­sequent issues as they were received. This business directory has obvious possibilities, and we have already had letters proving the practical value. 
• 
UNIVERSAL N. D. NIGHT: Universal Notre Dame Night, the thirteenth world wide observance of a simultaneous tribute to Notre Dame by alumni, properly and definitely broke all existing records. Keyed by the NBC program from the Notre Dame Club of the District of Colum­bia in Washington and a campus pro­gram supplementing it, alumni and friends heard this half-hour hook-up, which, in turn, was supplemented on the air by individual programs of varying scope and intensity in more than 200 local radio stations of this country and abroad. Twenty Clubs had speakers directly from the campus on the Night. Sev­eral new Clubs met; several groups met that will probably be Clubs by the next Universal observance. Every­one of the existing 85 Clubs seems to have met in one or another form of local observance. Publicity and participation by Notre Dame alumni and friends ex­ceeded all previous records. Chicago shattered attendance records for a Club meeting on the Night, with 850 present. 
• THE LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS: 
Universal Night leads logically to the Club picture. Four new Clubs were organized during the year— Miami, Florida; Dubuque, Iowa; Cen­tral Pennsylvania, and Southern West Virginia. 
The individual Club programs this year have reflected far more activity, achievement, depth and promise than any preceding year, and mark, if ex­perience means anything, the launch­ing of the Club program that has always been the hope of the Associa­tion. The Local Club Council today at its meeting reported in detail the achievements of meetings and activi­ties that stood out during the year. These may be combined to form a handbook for Local Clubs, so that the experiences can be shared to mutual advantage. 
You have read in the ALUMNUS of this year the results of such splendid and large-scale activities as the pre­game smokers of the St. Joe Valley Clnb; the directory of more than 1200 members of the Chicago Club; the greater-than-capacity lay- retreat of the Cleveland Club; the Rockne Communion Breakfast of the New York Club; the undergraduate dub contract of the New Jersey Club; and each month carried others like these; you can hardly fail to realize that we are no longer in what might be called the Pretzel Age of the Clubs. With experience has come maturity. Marked development affecting the local alum­nus most favorably is bound to fol­low this recognition of changed con­ditions. 
• 
THE DISTRICTS: The District organizations are still in about the same position as Elmer's fourth team. The first three teams, the National officers, the individual alumni, and the Local Clubs, have been holding on to their gains, and in fact scoring frequently. But re­serve strength is a source of great confidence now, and a necessity for the future. The Districts know the signals. In the several instances where District organization has been called upon to function, it has shown most promising response. With the rapid development of the Club pro­gram, the District subdivision will be soon and vital. 
PROSPECTIVE 
STUDENT CONTACTS: 
In spite of the current tendency to increase our enrollment at Notre Dame, and the reaction against some of the extremes of student solicita­tion for the various colleges, the problem of contacting in each com­munity the particular boys whose per­sonalities, achievements and desires fit them into the Notre Dame picture especially well, is one that can be made a permanent part of the Asso­ciation program and the programs of Clubs, Districts and individual alum­ni. This interest in and interesting of the select prospects in a commun­ity is not the property exclusively of the small college, the shaky college, or the college which needs numbers. It is a program which has been adopt­ed and intensified by many institu­tions of prestige and similar appeal to our own. What began as a bol­stering movement for numerical suc­cess has rapidly and properly become a selective and advisory service of mutual aid to boy and institution. Unless Notre Dame continues this ser­vice, which is most effective through alumni, we seem bound to suffer in the local representation from any given community. 
Therefore, this program will con­tinue to be one of the major activities of the Association and we trust one shared by all its branches. 
FINANCES: Our financial situation, as usual these recent years, is distressing. There is some lifting of the clouds. The University has been called upon 
this year to aid us considerably less than last year. We have even suc­ceeded in paying a part of the ex­penses of the ALUMNUS this Spring. But in simple and sincere phrasing, unless we double our income, practi­cally, we can not carry on our present program independently of the Uni­versity. 
• 
LIVING ENDOWMENT: 
The Association made little or no effort to promote the Living Endow­ment program during the past year. The obvious distress of many mem­bers made such a campaign seem un­wise. In addition, the University, through Father O'Hara's page in the ALUMNUS, introduced several proj­ects which served so similar a pur­pose that they could be logically sub­stituted. The participation of alumni in the University financial picture for the year is interesting enough to con­dense here from the acknowledge­ments which ran serially in Father O'Hara's pages for the year. 
Alumnus '11. for the Fr. Hudson 
Scholarship in Apologetics . $ 40 Alumnus '08, for the Fr. Cavanaush 
Scholarship in Apolosctics . 100 Alumnus '09, for the Fr. Cavanaush 
Scholarship in Apolofrctics 60 
Balance of the John F. Cushine. C.E., '06, sift for the Enffineerins build­ine . __ 193,000 
John C. TuIIy '11, general 600 Alumnus anonymous, general . 25 Alumnus, '25, for the Fr. Hudson 
Scholar^ip in Apologetics 10 John H. Neeson, '03. Prof. James Ed­wards Scholarship in Apologetics— 1,500 Mercier Qub of N.J., through an alumnus, for the Cardinal Mercier scholarship in Apologetics 1,500 Harry Kirk, '13, for Apologetics Scholarship fund 5 Member of the Women's Qub, for Scholarship fund 5 James McKee, '93, for Apologetics Scholarship fund 25 Daniel Hilsartner, Jr., '17, for Apol­ogetics Scholarship fund 10 Maurice Carroll, '19, for the establish­ment of a prize for ecclesiastical design in the Sept. of Architecture 25 
E. M. Morris, '06. for aiding deserv­ing students 400 
AFFILIATIONS: 
The Association has continued its active interest and support of the American Alumni Council and the National Catholic Alumni Federation. The Alumni Secretary attended the national convention of the former or­ganization in Cincinnati in April, and participated in the program. Not only the national Secretary of the As­sociation but many other Notre Dame alumni are active participants in the national and regional work of the Catholic Federation. . 
• SPECIAL FEATURES OF THE ASSOCIATION YEAR: 
This report would not be complete without a brief summary of the spe­cial features of the year that were a part of the Association's program: 
(Continued on Page 268) 

June, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Three Generations of Notre Dame Men 
JAMES M. MCCORMACK 
1867 

The Civil War was a terrible real­ity of the moment when 13-year old James M. McCormack, a Southern boy, entered the University of Notre Dame in 1863. 
Seventy - three years later his grandson, Donnell J. McCormack, of Memphis, was graduated from Notre Dame with the class of 1936. 
And, in bet\veen, Michael J. Mc­Cormack, Donnell's father, had been graduated from Notre Dame in 1899. 
Thus, three generations of Mc-Cormacks are actively a part of Notre Dame. And the Notre Dame club of Memphis is able to boast of three generations of Notre Dame men in its membership. James M. McCor­mack was elected honorary president of the Memphis Club at its meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Michael J. McCormack was on the campus for Donnell's graduation but, unfortunately, the grandfather, James 
M. McCormack, was unable to be present. His son acted as his proxy, however, in registering on the alumni lists. 
In an excellent feature story in the Memphis Press-Scimitar on April 22, following the U.N.D. Night meeting, Clark Porteous, of paper's staflt, says in part: 
"Bom in Richmond, Va., Nov. 13, 1850, James M. McCormack is the son of the late Michael and Mary McCor­mack. He moved to Nashville at the age of 10. 
"He looked forward to going to Notre Dame where his two brothers went to college and didn't let the Civil War stop him. 
"Some of the Yankee boys kidded 
MICHAEL J. MCCORMACK 
1899 

the Southern lad and taunted him for being a 'Johnnie Reb,' but he held his own at repartee. 
"One of his proudest moments at Notre Dame was when General Sher­man of the Union Army, famous for his march through Georgia, presented him with an autographed book as a 
1936 Awards Made 
Lecher, Gairey, Staunton Honored 

John Locher, of Monticello, Iowa, delivered the class oration at the Class Day exercises on June 6; John W -Gairey, C.S.C, of Jersey City, N.J., read the class poem, and Henry 
A. Staunton, of South Bend, gave the valedictory address. 
During the exercises, held in Washington Hall on the campus, the following awards were made for scholastic achievement: 
Breen Medal for Oratory, William Fieweger, Menasha, Wis; Meehan Medal for English, Paul Eugene Car­rico, Lakeville, Ind.; Dockweiler Medal for Philosophy, Alfred James Neff, C.S.C, Pamell, Iowa; Archi­tecture Medal, Leon Clement Huf­nagel. Clarion, Pa.; Kervick Gold Medal for Architecture, John Herbert McAuliffe, Oak Park, HI.; Lehn & 
(Continued on Pase 268) 
DONNELL J. MCCORMACK 
1936 

scholarship prize. He still treasures the book. 
"Mr. McCormack knew Father Sor­in, one of the founders of the Univer­sity, and Father Corby, famous Civil War chaplain. 
"Mr. McCormack's firm held the longest continuous membership in the Cotton Exchange when he retired in 1931. His only active business activ­ity now is that of a director of the Union Planters Bank. 
"Proud of his fine library of rare books at his home 1770 Glenwood, he is an inveterate reader, only recently adopting glasses. Mr. McCormack reads newspapers from throughout the nation. 
"His brothers—the late John and Michael McCormack—attended Notre Dame. Mike was a famous under­hand pitcher at Notre Dame, playing with Cap Anson, one qf'^rofessional baseball's immortals. 
"Michael J. McCormack, his son, was formerly in the mineral water business and was with his father in the cotton business. He also has re­tired from active business. Michael McCormack received a law degre^ from Notre Dame and practiced law about t^vo years. 
"Michael McCormack was a coUegf iate oarsman and an accomplished violinist, playing Southern tunes for distinguished visitors to Notre Dame. He prepped at Christian Brothers College. 
"Donnell McCormack, also a C.B.C. graduate, was a star footballer in prep days but has not participated in athletics at the University." 
Your Own Distinctive Notre Dame Bookplates 
Contest Presents Opportunity to Mark Your Library Attractively and Usefully as an Alumnus of the University; Bookplates Available Through the Alumni Office at Cost. 
In answer to the requests of several alumni, and recognizing the many splendid benefits that can arise from the custom, the ALUMNUS presents the Notre Dame bookplates. These plates were prepared as the result of a contest conducted in the Depart­ment of Art for this specific project. 
George M. Elmore, South Bend, a Sophomore In the Department of Art, -won first prize; George E. Delker, Henderson, Kentucky, a Sophomore won second prize, and Francis A. Kroeger, South Bend, a Sophomore, won the third prize. 
These plates do several things. They identify your library attrac­
(Name) 
tively. They identify your books 
distinctively. They bring, each 
an tAumnue of the 
time you look at them yourself, 

refreshing memories of the cam­ltniv«ir0itg 0f itoire 1>ame 
pus where your love of books was Number 1 fostered and your understanding of them enlarged. When your 
Number 2 friends read your books these plates emphasize for them the cul­tural side of Notre Dame as re­flected in you and your library. 
And, to be editorially honest, when you have used a book to your satisfaction, if it still has value, _ the Notre Dame plate is a reminder that contributions of good books to the University Li­brary are never out of order. How fitting and how fine if these con­tributions come already marked with the stamp of Notre Dame. 
An example of this latter thought is the special bookplate prepared by the University for the library of the late Eugene McBride, so that these valuable volumes so generously donated to Notre Dame will commemorate his love of culture and at the same time his love of Notre Dame where that contact with culture had flourished. 

(Name ) These bookplates can be ordered through the Alumni OflSce, in the 
ALUVNUS UNTVERSITAIIS 
sizes shown here, for 55 in lots of 

NOSTRAE- D07AINAE, A lACU FROM THa BOOKS OF 
500. Specify in ordering the exact way your name should appear in 
SuGsna R-CDaBuroa 

the space provided. Identify the plate you desire by number as PH.B.1916 Number 3 indicated under each plate here. 
BY JOHN J. LECHNER. '37 
CAMPUS NOTES 
CLASS OF 1936 
Eobed gentlemen about to divorce themselves from the term "under­graduate" trying to appear uncon­cerned as the academic procession gets under way . •. . Parents stand­ing on • the sidelines watching their sons moving slowly towards the gym­nasium . . . A handkerchief here and there as a mother remembers the first time she sent her little boy off to school . . . Pretty girls standing on tip-toe to wave . . . The self-con­scious return of the salutation . . . The march down the aisle of the gymnasium with the band playing . . . The "all gone" sensation in the pit of the stomach . , . The contracting of the throat muscles as the band begins a number with heroic tempo. . . . The slight awkwardness in grop­ing for a seat . . . The formal com­mencement exercises . . . The ap­plause . . . The awarding of degrees. . . . Out in the open air once again. . . . Handshakes . . . Congratula­tions . . . Kisses from feminine rel­atives . . . Pictures taken in cap and gown . . . The doffing of the cap and govm . . . Notre Dame has grad­uated another class. 
COMMENCEMENT SCENE 
Bill Jamieson, of Chicago, class of 1905, looked at the signs on the walls of the alumni registration booth. "Before 1906," he read, "in Lyons Hall. 1906 to 1926, in Alumni Hall." He turned to his three friends, all from the class of 1911. 
"Huh," he said emphatically, "I'm not going to be put over there where there isn't any excitement. I'm go­ing to stay in Alumni with you fellows!" 
The next morning, Mr. Jamieson, re-appeared at the registration booth. "I'm going to shift over to Lyons Hall," he announced, "Last night there was so much racket in Alumni I couldn't get a bit of rest." 
Mr. Jamieson made his way to Lyons and was assigned a room. Hearing a noise in the room next to his he dropped in and introduced himself to another "Before 1906." 
"Enjoying yourself?" asked Ja­mieson. 
"You bet!" answered "Before 1906," "except that it was so quiet in this darn hall last night that I couldn't sleep a wink!" 
THE MONTH IN BRIEF 
Paul Foley, of Grosse Pointe, Mich­igan, will edit next year's Scholastic. . . . Tom Radigan, Gary, Indiana, will be head man on the Dome, while Phil Welsh, Anderson, Indiana, will guide the destinies of Scrip, the cam­pus literary quarterly . . . Notre Dame publications should, next year, present a mid-western viewpoint since all three hail from this sector. . . . Cy Stroker, Waterbury, Con­necticut, will be Foley's managing editor, with Louis Dunn, Adrian, Michigan, occupying the same posi­tion under Radigan . . . The com­mencement play, "Friday the Thir­teenth" went off very well . . . Me­morial Day was commemorated at Notre Dame with a field Mass, the Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., for­mer president and World War chap­lain, acting as celebrant . . . There was an address by Pat Manion at the community cemetery . . . Bob Rior­dan. University registrar, acted as marshall and was general chairman in charge of arrangements . . . John Cackley, Ronceverte, West Virginia, will prexy the rejuvenated Press club which celebrated its revival a few months ago by bringing famous Newsman Paul Mallon here for a dinner . . . The Breen oratorical contest, held annually, was won by Bill Fieweger of Menasha, Wisconsin. . . . The University radio station in­stituted an interhall talent contest, St. Ed's hall winning . . . This con­test is to be made a yearly feature. .. . A few repressed crooners were uncovered. . . . 
LOCAL GOLF 
Horton Smith, in a local exhibition, broke the University golf course record with a sparkling 67 . . . Law­son Little, Jimmy Thompson and Bud Donovan, a Freshman, completed the foursome . . . Bill 'Taylor, De­troit Sophomore who held the former record, 69, qualified for the National Open ... A pair of 77's put him on the sidelines . . . Ace reporter James Kilgallen of the I.N.S., gave an in­formal talk in Washington Hall . . . In his opinion the Lindbergh kid­napping was a one-man job with Bruno Hauptmann definitely being guilty . . . The Department of Phi­losophy sponsored a philosophical dis­
putation which was attended by 800. . . . The disputation receiver a cabled blessing from His Holiness, Pope Pius XI . . . Mary Garden, operatic diva, paid a flying visit to the cam­pus . . . Paul Barker, Rochester, New York, will be head manager of foot­ball next Fall . . . According to Brother Leo, C.S.C., who has had charge of the Notre Dame beef cat­tle farm for the past 36 years, "The general outlook for cattle feeders this year is not too rosy." .. . 
LOCAL GIRLS 
In a questionnaire St. Mary's girls came to the conclusion that a girl should not marry a man to reform him .. . A nine hole patting green has been installed there . . . The li­brary housed an exhibition of 250 paintings done by mid-western high school students . . . The dock in the steeple of Sacred Heart Church was rendered hors de comhat for two days due to an electrical storm .. . At the Horton Smith - Thompson - Little-Donovan exhibition Hank Pojman, varsity center on last Fall's team, acted as announcer . . . Park Sulli­van, Lexington, Kentucky, was elect­ed senior class president for 1937. .. . Scott Reardon, Sioox Falls, South Dakota, is the new junior president. . . . For parlor heroics the nod goes to the senior who took a son bath the day of the Senior Ball, fell asleep, received a second degree bam which required hospital treatment, and yet attended the Ball . . . We understand he had a red hot time. .. . A collection of "dime novels" of bygone days was exhibited in the University library . . . Johnny Lau­tar, stellar left guard, was elected president of the Monogram club . . . DeLancey Davis and cohorts tamed out a smooth Dome . . . Johnny Moran's Scholastic was i>acked week after week with well-written news articles and interesting features . . . It was almost as good as the ALUM­NUS . . . Maurie Tombragel's Scrip uncovered previously undiscovered campus talent . . . Elmer, George, Jake, Nick, Father Holderith and Pedro de Landero turned out ath­letic teams that were tops .. . Things kept happening so that there wasn't a lack of news so we had something to write about each month . .'. All in all it was a mighty, swell yesur i . '. We'll probably be back with you again next year aiid whether that's a promise or a threat well'leave yon to decide .. . So long, kiddies. . . . 
Secretary's Report 
(Continued from Pase 264) 

Last summer the Alumni Secretary represented the Association at the dedication of a civic monument in Laurlum, Mich., to George Gipp, '20. 
Throughout the year the ALUMNUS has, whenever possible, listed jobs available to N. D. men, or men desir­ing jobs. Much correspondence with individual alumni has promoted this activity. This Spring, to further placement seirice, particularly the Class of 1936, the Alumni Office con­ducted a survey of the Class for mem­bers who had or had not jobs, their experience, averages, and so on. These reports were divided by Club territories and sent out. Results are of course still in the making. There will be a more intensive placement program for general alumni service conducted this year. 
Through the contributions of a group of Chicago and Calumet Dis­trict alumni, the talks by faculty members, which appeared frequently in the ALUMNUS, and which were broadcast from the South Bend Trib­7me Station, WSBT, were carried by special wire to Station WIND in Gary, and through that Station's co­operation, reached the Chicago area to much greater advantage. 
The Lay Retreat held at Notre Dame last August reflected an addi­tional alumni interest and numbered many Club members from the Middle West. Some of the work of the alum­ni in this connection is seen in a re­cent request for a Notre Dame priest to preach a lay retreat in Pennsyl­vania. And the lay retreat movement in the Local Clubs is growing rapidly. 
The Women's Qub, that rather un­sung group consisting of the women graduates, largely of the summer school, and largely nuns, met as usual, during the last summer and developed a splendid program. This group, through its teaching facili­ties, does a tremendous amount of good in the student contact field. 
The Reunion of Old-Timers at the Southern California game was a high spot in alumni activity in conjunction with the new Monogram Association. 
The gift of the librarj' of the late Eugene McBride, '16, to the tfniver­sity was a magnificent and significant gesture. Numbering some 2,500 vol­umes, many of them rare editions, it sets a precedent that can do much for the University library through alumni influence and support. 
Somewhat in this connection and as a result of an approach from an­other alumnus along similar lines, the Alumni Office sponsored a con­test in the Department of Art for the design of an alumni bookplate. The three prize-winners will be print­ed in the June ALUMNUS and supplies of these bookplates will be made available to alumni through the Alumni Office. 
One of the things done during the 
year that may have great future pos­
sibilities is the organization, through 
the Rhode Island alumni group, of a 
Notre Dame Guild, now numbering 
115 women, most of them members 
of the families of the alumni. 
The Alumni Olfice, as always, has endeavored to cooperate with under­graduate groups. 
On the whole, the year has been one of great activity. From the view­point of precedent and possibilities, it is one of progress. 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, 
Secretary -Treasurer. 

ALUMNI GOLF TOURNAMENT 
The annual alumni tournament as conducted by the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C, '18, varsity coach, brought out some verj' fine talent in the golf team alumni. 
Shooting 36 holes, medal play, Joe Switzer, the St. Louis sensation, won the annual meet with a 148. Russ Beaupre, Grosse Pointe, Mich., was second with 150. Mike Halligan, De­troit, carded a 156, and Bill Red­mond, Joliet, took 158. 
A feature of the tournament was the match between the 1931 alumni team, composed of the above four men, and the 1936 varsity team, Her­man Green, Win Day, Bud Donovan and Pat Malloy. The result was a tie. 
1936 Awards 
(Continued from Page 265) 

Fink Medal for Pharmacy, Robert 
Francis Ervin, Jackson, Ohio; Hoynes 
Scholarship in Law, Robert Benedict 
Devine, Norwalk, Conn.; Monsignor 
O'Brien Award in History, Henry 
Andrew HeintsMU, C.S.C, Milwau­
kee, Wis.; J. S. Meyers Burse in 
Journalism, Norman Lyle Johnson, 
South Bend, Ind.; William Mitchell 
Memorial Award for Playwriting, 
Robert Richard Stapp, Longmont, 
Colorado; Miles W. O'Brien award 
in Mechanical Drawing, Earle Fran­
cis Frarey, South Bend, Ind.; John 
J. O'Brien award in Shop Work,' Philip Cornelius DeBruyne, St. Charles, HI. 
George L. O'Brien and Mrs. Wil­liam D. O'Brien award in chemistry, Arthur A. Baum, Battle Creek, Mich.; Gallitzin A. Farabaugh award in Law, John Joseph Locher, Monticello, Iowa; Ralph SoUitt Prize in Archi­tecture, R-edolin Schlafly McNeill, Carlyle, HI; Gertrude SoUitt Prize in Architecture, Leon Clement Huf­nagel. Clarion, Pa,; Maurice Carroll Prize in Architecture, Robert Joseph Schultz, Berwyn, 111.; Jeanne D'Arc Medal for French, Carmi Anthony Belmont, Fall River, Mass.; the By­ron V. Kanaley Prize for the most exemplary student - athlete leader, Francis Louis Layden, Davenport, Iowa. 
Sifts 
XL-he Univenihj acKnowleaqes wltli aeep gratiluae ute followuiq ?'?"• 
For the Department of Metallurgy from MR. JOHN J. O'BRIEN, Secretary-Treasurer South Bend Lathe Works, and the late MILES W . O'BRIEN A Metal-Working Larfie (Value ^600) 
from BERNARD J. VOLL, '17 (to purchase a hardness testing machine)  ^ 190  
A current fellowslup for a professor of economics from A FRIEND .-.  ^1,500  
For the Dante Library from MR. BYRNE HACKETT, New York QtyA copy of a Dante volume autographed bmodel of the Pre-Raphaelites.  ' y a  

yj^(fu4< ^' ^^cOA.^. <•< C. 
Notre Dame Mourns Chesterton 
Noted Englishman Gave Series of Lec­tures on Campus; Received Degree. 
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES 
(In accordance with practice, and with the wishes of the new Board, the ALUMNUS will endevor to keep alumni in touch with jobs that pre­sent themselves, and also aid individ­ual alumni in securing jobs for which they are qualified.) 
Three exceptional jobs, requiring experienced men, have been reported recently for possible N.D. filling. 
1.
 A mechanical engineer whose experience would qualify him to su­pervise maintenance in a large in­dustrial plant. 

2.
 Sales job for a mechanical en­gineer in the central west, metal­lurgical experience important. 

3.
 Sales job for electrical engineer who has had experience particularly in sales. Buffalo or Cleveland grad­uates possibly would not need to leave city. 25-30 years old, single man, preferred. 

4.
 Salaried sales job with national office equipment company in St. Joe Valley territory. -A.ge 24-32, two to four years with present employer, satisfactory record. 

5.
 Twenty industrial engineering positions open with starting salaries ranging from $1,800 to $2,700 per year, for university graduates from 22 to 35 years. 


Job Wanted 

1.
 Young journalist, '34,15 months thorough experience in Catholic pe­riodical field, out through reorgani­zation. Would like to continue jour­nalism in the Catholic field. Good references. 

2.
 '31 Commerce man would like to get into sales end railroads. 

3.
 Anyone having a job of any kind for members of the Class of 1936, please notify the Alumni Of­fice. A survey of the Class has pro­vided the Office with a list of men who desire work, and their qualifi­cations. 


DR. BRUNDAGE HERE 

A welcome visitor on the campus on Sunday, June 7, was Dr. Howard Brundage, Columbus, Ohio, a friend of the Mayo brothers. 
REGARDING DOMES 

In response to several Inquiries, the Publications Office is glad to say that it has available a limiteil supply of 1936 DOMES for those alumni who wish them. Books will be mailed promptly,. as long as the supply lasts, upon receipt of remittances ($5.00, as usual). Requests should be directed to the Board of Publications, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Notre Dame mourned one of her most distinguished sons when, on June 14, Gilbert Keith Chesterton, 62 years old, died in England from heart failure, following a brief ill­ness. 
Poet, biographer, essayist, master of the detective story, critic, lecturer, ardent defender of Catholicism since his conversion in 1922 and master of Christian tradition, whose keen mind, right heart, and versatile literary genius have been valiantly devoted to the eternal truth, goodness and beauty, in literature and in life— Gilbert Keith Chesterton, of London, England." 
Mr. Chesterton participated in the dedication of the new football sta­dium at Notre Dame in 1930 and 
G. K. CHESTERTON AND FATHER O'DONNBLL 
Two Masters of the English Language. 
paradox, Mr. Chesterton was for many years one of the world's out­standing Uterai-y figures. 
In the Fall of 1930 he visited Notre Dame for a six weeks' series of lec­tures and made his home in South Bend. At a special convocation of the University faculty on November 5, 1930,—the first of its kind at Notre Dame,—^Mr. Chesterton was awarded the honorary degree of doc­tor of laws by the late president of the University, Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C. 
The citation for the degree was as follows: "The University of Notre Dame, in this special convocation, confers the degree of Doctor of Law, honoris caiisa, on a man of letters recognized as the ablest and most in­fluential in the English-speaking world of today, a defender of the vrrote a poem, "The Arena," dedi­cated to Notre Dame. 
Mr. Chesterton was to return to Notre Dame for a second series of lectures either in the Fall of 1936 or the Spring of 1937. Such was his promise to Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, when the latter was abroad a year ago. The noted English apologist was deeply interested in the new graduate program in apologetics which Notre Dame is now undertak­ing. 
Father O'Hara, upon hearing of Mr. Chesterton's death, paid high tribute to him, saying "Chesterton was a great crusader for liberty of spirit. He fought to save men from the pettiness of their own nature, from passion, from prejudice and ig­norance. He did this by pointing out the obvious." 
Baccalaureate Sermon 
(Continued from Page 256) 

tural but the unnatural. It shows 
you that the dogmas of divine reve­
lation are markers that guide the hu­
man mind in its search for truth in 
philosophy and science and not bar­
riers that block the way. It stands 
firm enough to give strong support 
to the cherished sanctities of life in 
the individual, in the family, and in 
society, the sanctities that have made 
our western civilization and can 
alone save it from threatening ruin. 
To be at home in the house of learn­
ing that rests on the high and firm 
foundation of faith in Christ is not 
to adjust oneself to chaos—which is 
folly—^but to set one's life in order 
towards God, towards man and to­
wards society—which is wisdom. 
. Finally, what is true of the group 
is tiTie of the individual too. In the 
upbuilding of Christian character in 
you,. the graduates of today, everj' 
one who has had a part in the service 
this University has rendered you may 
well say, to each one of you whose 
life he has touched with the inspii^a­
tion of Christian teaching, with the 
ministration of pi-iestly power, or 
with the strong force of Christian 
example: "As a prudent master build­
er, I have laid the foundation and 
another buildeth theron; but let 
every man take heed .how he build­
eth thereupon; and no man can lay 
another foundation then that which 
is laid—^which is Jesus Christ." 
Intellectual Conviction 

They have built of their best into you, and today they send you forth as journeymen builders for Christ to continue the unending work of build­ing for Christ in your own character and to take up the waiting task of building for Chiust in the home, in civil society and in the Church. Fol­lowing the example of St. Paul and true to the spirit of Catholic scholar­ship, Notre Dame has laid the foun­dations of faith in your souls on the bedrock of intellectual conviction. This, as you well know, does not im­ply that faith is the assent to a con­clusion in a process of reasoning, hut it does imply that faith, as an assent to the data of divine revelation, even when it contains a mystery, is made a reasonable act by strictly scientific conviction as to the historic fact that God has revealed His truth to man and as to the philosophic principle that the authority of God is a just motive for man's assent. 
The widespread decline of Chris­tian faith in university circles today is largely the result of ha^^ng given up this sound philosophy of belief which is part of our Catholic inheri­tance. This destructive philosophic trend has made many a famed uni­versity of our day not the builder but the wrecker of Christian char­
acter. Notre Dame has been intent on building your Christian Character and on making you builders in your own right. Never forget, then, that the wise builder ever keeps a watch­ful eye on his foundations. An en­largement of the superstructure will call for an increased underpinning in the foundation. To apply this same building rule to your own prac­tice, let me say that if in your future lives you match every signal advance in your study of science or philoso­phy with a corresponding deepening of the intellectual foundations of faith, we may indeed count on you to be strong builders for Christ. 
Means and Appliances 

With a solid foundation thus laid, Notre Dame has made you familiar with the means and appliances, with the processes and the plans for your own work as builders of Christian character. She has given you a good­ly store of the raw material of var­ied factual knowledge of the finer products of Christian culture, indi­cating as well the sources to which you may go for needed replenish­ments. She has taught you to lay the mortar of charitj' with the trowel of patience; she has trained you to use the hammer and chisel of self-discipline and the plummet of God's inexorable law. She has read with you the blueprints of God's designs for human life and pointed out the hidden sources of your building's strength in prayer and sacrament. She has brought you as often as you would come to the tabernacled 'work­room of the Divine Architect of all our buildings—who is Christ Himself —and initiated you into the sound building technique of going over with Him the work of yesterday and planning with Him the work of to­day. She has introduced you, too, into the home of Christ, the builder, where you found that Mary, His mother, has all the ideal mother's interest in the work of her Son and has, too, a mother's sweet way of encouraging those who plan to be His co-workers; where you met as wel] the goodly company of those who have stood out in every age as master builders in fashioning the supports of the moral framework of a world that even in its pride is still so strangely weak. And today with the best equipment she could induce you to accept in materials and tools and technique and ideals, Notre Dame sends you forth to be builders for Christ in the character you will 
set in definite form in the home you 
•nill establish, in the-nation you-will serve and in the Church you will cherish. With confidence in her heart and a prayer on her lips, she bids you Godspeed. And then in the spirit of an anxious mother, but in the words of one of the world's greatest builders for Clirist, she calls out a last warning: "As a prudent master 
Steers Monogram 
President 
Elected ai Annual Campus Luncheon 

The second annual meeting of the Notre Dame Monogram Association was held in the University Dining Halls at a luncheon on Sunday, June 7. 
Fred Steers, '11, Chicago, director of the Alumni Association, was chosen president of the monogram men for the year 1936-37, succeeding Edward J. Meehan, '20, South Bend, first president of the organization. 
Paul Castner, '23, Cleveland, for­mer football, baseball and hockey star, was elected vice-president. 
Clarence W. "Chick" Bader, '19, of Gary, Indiana, baseball, now a prominent Mid-West golfer, is the new secretary. 
The Board of Directors is: Charles "Gus" Dorais, '14, Detroit; and Law­rence McNemey, '06, Elgin, Illinois, for three-year terms; Walter E. Mil­ler, '20, Defiance, Ohio, and Edward 
J. Meehan, '20, South Bend, for two-year terms; and Roger Kiley, '23, Chicago, and Rev. John Farley, C.S.C, '02, Notre Dame, for one-year terms. Also on the Board are John Lautar, president, and Joe O'Neill, vice-president, of the Mono­gram Club on the campus. 
During the meeting talks were made by Elmer Lavden, '25,; Rev. 
J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16; Wil­liam A. Walsh, '96, Yonkers, New York; John J. Dempsey, '95,Taco­ma, Washington; Harry Stuhldreher, '25, Madison, Wisconsin; Maurice "Clipper" Smith, '21, Santa Clara, California; Paul Castner, '23, Cleve­land, and Robert E. Lynch, '03, Green Bay, Wisconsin. 
Letters were forwarded by the As­ssociation to Alfred "Dutch" Berg­man, '15, a monogram winner eleven times in four major sports, now seriously, ill in Peru, Indiana, and to Joseph Pliska, '15, also a major star in the same period, and now, too, seriously ill in Chicago, as the result of senice in the World War. 
A resolution was passed to main­tain a column of monogram news in the ALUMNUS each month, and, if possible, dedicate an issue annually to the monogram men. 
builder, I have laid the foundation and another buildeth thereon; but let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon; and no man can lay an­other foundation than that which is laid^-which is Jesus Christ." 
Forward Step In Club Council Proceedings 
Summary Reports of Year's Ouistandins Club Develop­ments Bring Excellent Suggestions Before Representatives; Attendance at Club Meetings Needs to be Improved, 
The Seventh Annual Council of Local Alumni Clubs, meeting at 1 
P.M. in the court room of the College of Law on Saturday, June 6, 1936, set a new high in constructive dis­cussion. 
A program which was intensive, and extensive, was so ably conducted by President Bernard J. VoU and the Club representatives participating in it that the two hours resulted in many very significant additions to the literature of Notre Dame Clubs. 
Present at the meeting were the following Club representatives: B. J. Kaiser, '12, and John O'Toole, '25, Western Pennsylvania; Joseph Alor­rissey, '28, Cincinnati; Louis Buck­ley, '28, St. Joseph Valley; John Yelland, '30 Twin Cities; Thomas Cannon, '33, Eastern Indiana; Ar­thur Hughes, '11, James Ronan, '26, and James Sanford, '15, Chicago. 
Edward Sullivan, '24, Fort WajTie; Joseph Norton, '24, Malcolm Knaus, '26, Alfred Slaggert, '21, and George Costello, '31, Deti-oit; Hugh A. O'Donnell, '94, and Edward A. Fal­lon, '26, New York City; Charles E. Mason, '26, Indianapolis; William Travis, '27, and J. Meh-in Rohrbach, '23, Calumet District; William Dow­ney, M.A. '28, Berrien Countj^; Wil­liam Burkhart, '35, Akron, Ohio; J. Patrick Canny, '28, Paul Castner, '23, and Alfred Grisanti, '31, Cleve­land; Paul Kennedy, '24, Wabash Valley; Dr. Kevin E. Curran, '23, Kansas City; Gerald Ashe, '22, and John Byrne, '23, Buffalo; Thomas Ferguson, '26, Connecticut Valley. 
Robert Baskerville, '31, Joliet; Jo­seph Wetli, '31, Toledo; William Chawgo, '31, Kane County; Joseph Sanford, '21, Joseph Riley, '18, and Dr. Ralph Aiigust, '30, Muskegon, Mich.; Maurice Goodeve, '31, Cal­gary, Alberta; and on the national representation or free lance side. President Bernard VoU, '17, Rev. John MacNamara, '97, William R. Dooley, '26, and James E. Arm­strong, '25. 
Of primary significance was the decision to ask the University that all campus geographic clubs secure, through the Alumni Office, permis­sion from corresponding alumni clubs, before the undergraduates are permitted to conduct a club function in the home community. The con­structive programs of the clubs and the possibilities and e.vamples of 
undergraduate organizations missing opportunities motivated the decision. A definite statement of policy was requested for club usage. 
Following is a summary, wholly inadequate to describe the merits of either activity or report, of the topics presented. Clubs interested in any phase can undoubtedly secure further information by writing the club con­ducting the activity, or the Alumni Ofiice. 
CLUB DIRECTORY Chicago reported on the very out­standing club directory, containing over 1,200 names and addresses, both business and home, and telephone numbers, with a business directory. This directory was published practi­cally without cost to the Club, through advertising. 
CLUB HEADQUARTERS Joliet reported on the origin and progress of the very effective club headquarters which have been estab­lished and maintained during the past year by the club. This has been done, also, without financial stress on a group of alumni numbering no more than 50. 
CIVIC INTEREST Hamilton, Ohio, reported the pos­sibility of enlisting general civic in­terest in a Notre Dame program of unusual merit, — in this case the classic Ohio State-Notre Dame foot­ball films. The club, numbering about a dozen active members, pro­duced a representative civic audience of some 200 men. 
UNDERGRADUATE RELATIONS New Jersey was not represented, but the success of that club's written contract with the undergraduate Jer­sey campus group, was discussed and gave rise to considerable favorable reaction. 
LAY RETREAT Cleveland gave a detailed and en­lightening account of the campaign which resulted in more than doubling the applications for its annual Lay Retreat. Attention was also called to the fact that nearby clubs of the Notre Dame area can'avail • them>-• selves of the lay retreat at the Uni­versity, combining the pleasure of a campus visit with the spiritual val­ues of a retreat as stressed in the Cleveland report. 
PARENTS AND PROSPECTS Buffalo reported on its very enter­prising program of expanding con­tacts by appointing to its dance and dinner committee members repre­senting the parents of present stu­dents, and members representing pro­spective students. The father of a Buffalo student, and a very prom­ising young high school graduate were cited as members of the most recent committee. This idea also met with universal acclaim and was rec­ommended for all clubs in the ex­panding of club affairs and the pro­motion program in particular. 
MOTHER'S DAY The Notre Dame Club of Spring­field was commended for its second annual Communion observance of Mother's Day. 
PUBLICITY Peoria was praised for its excel­lent utilization of publicity for its functions, and the success of that club was also held to be exemplary for all clubs in securing the maxi­mum benefits from their programs. 
FOOTBALL SMOKERS The smokers which the St. Joe Valley held on the Friday night be­fore each home game last Fall were described, and their success reported. They -will be repeated this Fall with more publicity for visiting club mem­bers, and the smoker idea was ad­vanced as an economical and effec­tive form of program for other dnbs for the away-from-home games. 
COMMUNION BREAKFAST The Communion Breakfast in mem­ory of Knute Eockne held by the Notre Dame Club of New York City was outstanding. The details lead­ing to its large attendance were de­scribed. The suggestion was gener­ally subscribed to that such break­fasts be held on the Sunday nearest March 31. 
ACADEMIC RESOURCES Possibilities of neighboring clnbs utilizing academic resources of the University to further academic inter­est and prestige in their several com­
- mnnitiesTrere disctjssed-nr eoimection with a proposal of the Notre Dame Club of LaPorte to follow such a program. The specific suggestion was advanced that as specialists in a field 
(Continual on Pase 277) 

President Voll's Address 
(Cantinucd from PaEC 262) 
to business and industry. It so hap­pens that during the past six years college men have been at a discount, but that condition is gradually cor­recting itself, and an agency such as I mention might easily make a con­tribution of unusual value to these men and to industry by helping them locate in the proper position where their particular talents will be useful and effective. Perhaps I am over­zealous in my advocacy of a possible solution for this placement question, but close contact with many of its most acute phases for a period of 15 years, including not only alumni but students needing employment in order to complete their education, has im­pressed me ivith the need for a defi­nite program. 

I have already said that in a na­tional way we are almost impotent for'want of proper facilities to bring either the job to the man or the man to the job. But I want to reiterate again my appreciation for the excep­tionally fine showing which individ­uals and groups in everj' Notre Dame club have made in this worlc. Their names are scarcely known, their deeds unheralded and unrecorded, except perhaps in the hearts of for­tunate men who have been the recip­ient of their kindness. Nevertheless, to have helped one of these men less fortunate than ourselves to help him­self, is a labor of love and a reflec­tion of the spirit of Our Lady who watches over us from atop the golden Dome directs our destinies. 
The ALUMNUS 

The ALUMNUS magazine, which represents our contact with the Uni­versity and with one another, is al­most indispensable in the work of this Association. It has much liter­ary excellence and now contains short articles by members of the fac­ulty each month. This, of course, is in addition to the regular class news and faithful recording of all phases of University life and alumni activ­ities. During the past three years it has been sent to the alumni at the expense of the University. This seems a tragic situation, brought about as we all know by the severity of the recent economic collapse. It would seem that we are far enough on the road to recovery that a few thousand more men could pay their dues so as to make this Association self sustaining. Our greatest single 
item of expense is the publishing and mailing of the ALUMNUS. Unless further financial support is forth­coming some of our activities must be curtailed, which means only dues-paying members will, receive the magazine. Surely there should be enough pride in our membership to make us self sustaining and inde-
New Trustee 

John Moody, of New York City, internationally recognized financial analyst and author, was elected to membership on the Board of Lay Trustees of the University at the semi-annual meeting held May 16. He is the founder and president of Moody's Investment Service and asso­ciated companies of New York and London and is author of several books on finance, insurance and rail­roads. Mr. Moody has been active in Catholic lay activities and is a Knight Commander of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre. 
pendent and to build up the organi­zation where it can perform more and more outstanding services for its members. 
Great emphasis in the secretary's report and this report is placed upon the benefits and potential benefits which the members derive from the association activities. There is much, of course, in the alumni program which is of direct aid to the Univer­sity and very properly so. All ex­perienced alumni realize that what­ever increases the prestige of Notre Dame ipso facto increases the pres­tige of the degree which we hold. We further appreciate that the older our degree the more we are basking in the reflected glory of the greater Notre Dame, and we are deeply and sincerely proud of her achievements. 
One cannot he even partially suc­cessful in a position snch as this without the finest cooperation upon the part of the membership. Not a single incident has occurred during this year which might have marred a perfect score. Occasion after oc­casion developed when the help of individuals and clubs was sought to solve a vexing problem. Never once was there a refusal or a failure. The occasions, individuals, and clubs in­volved are too numerous for specific comment. Sufiice it to say, that I am sincerely appreciative of this wonderful spirit which has been shown. 
As alumni we meet upon a plane of mutual helpfulness and under­standing. Material rewards in abun­dance await the careful cultivation of tWs field. But this is not the alpha and omega of the association. Our greatest asset is in the realm of the spiritual. 
Principles in Practice 

Who has not already experienced the clash of battle when attempting to put into practice those principles which we hold sacred? Who is there that can stand alone, strong and ef­fective, in the face of the crashing attack of the Godless and irreligious upon life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness as we would like to enjoy these rights in order that we might develop our being to its fullest stat­ure? Close companionship and fel­lowship with men in this association, grounded in the same philosophy and believing and practicing the same rules of right conduct is not only a help and consolation in time of need but an inexhaustible fountain of strength and courage with which to meet the problems of the morrow. I am not unmindful of the fact that numbered among us are many men of different religious beliefs. There should be no difference on this score. As already indicated, the conflict is between religion on the one side and no religion on the other, between God and no God. Happily the pro­
fessional, fraternal, and spiritual fac­tors, added together, would s&era to make an Association of Notre Dame men indispensable to the individual himself and the greatest possible source of good in every field of group action. 
I would be recreant to a sacred duty if I failed, before this group, to record the passing of one of our most beloved members. Father Will Maloney. Not only was he secretary of this Association for nearly 15 years but its inspiring and guiding spirit. All of the ability and strength which God had placed in a frail body were at the service of the Associa­tion. He knew what is meant by the fraternal and professional fac­tor and, above all, he understood the spiritual factor. For long years he labored tirelessly in the interest of his fellow alumni, perhaps even now from his heavenly throne he is pro­nouncing upon this group a saintly benediction. His is the challenge to us; his is the spirit that bids us carry on. His failing hands have "thrown the torch; be ours to hold it high." Let's not break faith with those who die! 
June, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
New Student Infirmary Opened 
Beautiful New Building Provides Mod­ern Accommodations For 100 Patients. 
By John H. Sheehan 
Tuesday, April 14, ten and a half months after work first started, the new Student Infirmary erected at a cost of $250,000 was opened for use and the first patient smilingly moved in. Joseph Walsh Gallagher, '37, of Detroit, was a hold-over from the old Infirmary and to him goes the honor of being the first bed patient, even though he was "in" for only a day. 
The new building is a beautiful, bright, cheery edifice of Collegiate-Gothic design, in harmony with all the newer campus buildings. It is located on a slight rise overlooking St. Joseph lake, about 100 yards north and east of the old Infirmary. 
Completely fireproof in construc­tion and laid out according to the most modem hospital design, this new three-story and basement structure is undoubtedly the finest Student In­firmary on any American campus. It was designed by Maginnis & Walsh, of Boston, and erected by the con­tracting firm of Thomas L. Hickey, Inc., of South Bend. 
Material From Various States 

Nothing has been neglected or slighted in this beautiful building of tan, Santa Barbara tapestry brick, trimmed with Indiana limestone, set on a Minnesota granite base, roofed with rugged slate shingles from Poultney, Vermont, and topped with an attractive copper fleche—or sanc­tum tower—which lends an ecclesi­astical touch and adds to the medieval appearance of the building. 
In addition to accommodations for 100 bed patients and nursing staff of the building, there are comfortable quarters for visiting relatives and guests, including a spacious "Bishop's Suite." .A.n automatic electric eleva­tor, four stairways and five entrances, diet kitchens on every floor with a connecting dumbwaiter, private quar­ters for priest-patients, a special con­tagion section, and ivell-equipped doc­tors' quarters are a few of the con­veniences. 
The main or front entrance is on the west, facing St. Joseph lake, while the ambulance entrance is at the rear on the east side. The main door, like the other outside doors, is of heavy oak trimmed with wrought iron hard­ware of antique design. The vesti­bule has a terrazzo floor and is at­tractively wainscoted with pink Ten­by a shrine of St. Joseph in a special alcove. 
To the left of the vestibule are the physicians' quarters, made up of a large waiting room, two examination and treatment rooms, and the doctors' private offices. Dr. James E. Mc-Meel is chief of the staff, assisted by Dr. Paul E. Haley. 
To the right of the vestibule is a completely equipped pharmacy and the office of the superintendent of the Infirmary, Sister Clare Patrice, C.S.C. 
Rooms and Wards 

All corridor floors are of light grey terrazo with a black border stripe effect, called the "Vogel black liner," used for the first time in this build­ing. Floors in the various rooms and wards are of asphalt tile of solid green, pearl white, nut brown and other shades, varying with the rooms. Walls are of keen-finish white plaster and all doors and door trims are of a softly harmonizing light oak. 
For bed patients, there are 24 pri­vate rooms and five wards. The building is roughly in the shape of a Lon-aine cross, resulting in excep­tionally good light in all rooms. All windows are of steel frame with small panes and with sections that open in­ward to provide no-draft ventilation. 
The typical student "room has the newest type of raising-and-lowering metal bed, a roomy steel locker, a bedside table, a combination tray-table and reading stand, lavatory and guest chairs. Shower and tub baths are in connection. Lighting in many of the rooms and wards is indirect; in the others the glass light shades are tinted blue to be easy on the eyes. 
Provision is made for bedside ra­dios and reading lamps, and the lat­est lype of nurses's call-light system is installed. For greater convenience, there is an inter-infirmary telephone system with outside 'phone connec­tions from every floor. 
Several Dininsr Room* 

On the main floor, immediately off the well-equipped kitchen, is the stu­dent dining room, modeled after the main dining halls and capable of seat­ing 56. On the second floor a stu­dent recreation and reading room is provided. 
Special priests' quarters are clois­tered off on the second floor of the south wing, and include the Bishop's suite. A private dining room for the clergy is attached. In this same wing, on the third floor, is a beautiful little chapel with a domed roof, that will seat about 100. The chapel is chaste­ly finished in white plaster with light oak trim and has tracery windows. For the time being, the altar, pews and statuary from the old Infirmary are being used. 
Private Sisters' quarters are on the third floor of the north wing di­rectly over the isolation section. The Sisters' dining room is off the kitchen, in the East wing. 
In conformity with the trend of modem medical science, the idea be­hind the new Infirmary is to provide the best in preventive medicine. Notre Dame students have had an unusual record for health and, according to Dr. McMeel, they continue to grow healthier. 
Rarely is there a "rush" of bed pa-
THE NEW STUDE.NT INFIRMABY It is faced, across the main corridor. "Time Marches On." 
nessee marble of a rich brown shade. 
tients, the average volume in the past five years running 325 a semester, or 18 per week. Only twice during the past 20 years has the S.R.O. sign been out; once during the influenza epidemic of 1918 and again when measles speckled the campus. 
Yet Dr. McMeel and Dr. Haley aren't worried about having their services dispensed with entirely. They aren't so much concerned with at­tending the sick as with preventing illness. (Even vcith fakers they are adept.) An average of 75 to 80 stu­dents daily take advantage of making free office calls for minor hurts and symptoms that are kept from becom­ing major ones. 
As part of the general policy, strict medical supervision is maintained over the physical side of athletics. In addition, the general examination and inoculation facilities provided tend to make the campus a place charac­terized by the doctors as being one of "exceptionally splendid general health." 
O. A. CLARK DIES 
A personage familiar to thousands of Notre Dame men was taken away on April 27, with the death of 0. A. Clark, prominent South Bend restaur­ant owner and for several years, be­fore the opening of the present Din­ing Hall, operator of the campus cafeteria on the ground floor of Badin Hall. 
In ill health for some time, Mr. Clark became seriously ill shortly after Christmas and had been con­fined to bed for several weeks before his death. He suffered from a heart and nerve ailment. He was 64 j'ears old. 

Quietly charitable on a large scale, Mr. Clark helped innumerable per­sons in innumerable ways. He was particularly generous in extending aid to needy college students and to his generositj' many a Notre Dame man owes his education, not to men­tion a more comfortable stomach at a critical point in life. To perpetuate his memorj' a committee of promi­nent local residents is now planning a children's playground at Health-win Hospital, north of South Bend. Funds for the project are soon to be collected. 
Among the relatives surviving Mr. Clark is his son, Daniel, '31. 
IN CONGRESSIONAL RECORD 

- The distinguished address,- deliv­ered at the Special Convocation hon­oring the Commonwealth of the Philippines on December 9, 1935 by Carlos P. Eomulo, has been reprinted in the Congressional Record at the request of Congressman Ludlow of Indianapolis. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Father O'Hara's Address 
(Continunl from Page 280) 

The enrollment in the College of Commerce has reached the highest point in its history, and for the first time it has more undergraduates than there are candidates for the degree of Bachelor of Arts. It should be emphasized, however, that cultural subjects form more than one-half of the curriculum of the College of Commerce. We do not cripple the cultural life of our Commerce stu­dents by restricting them to the study of commercial processes. It is our observation that the study of Philosophy has attracted more inter­est than at any previous time in our own generation at Notre Dame. As a natural outgrowth of this interest in Philosophy and of religious zeal, quickened by a generation of daily Communion, the University has an­nounced for next year the intro­duction of a two-year graduate course in Apologetics, candidates for which will be received from the Catholic colleges throughout the country. It is our hope that in this way we can encourage the develop­ment of Catholic lay-writers to pre­sent Catholic thought in a form that will appeal to a world that is starv­ing for a sound philosophy. The success of the Catholic Church in Great Britain in producing such writers has encouraged us to go to England and Ireland for professors for this course. These visiting pro­fessors for next year will include Desmond Fitzgerald, Shane Leslie, Christopher HoUis, E. I. Watkin, and Arnold Lunn. Jlr. Fitzgerald gave a six-weeks course of lectures in the philosophy of government last fall, and mil repeat this course in the Summer School. Mr. Leslie taught 
here for a semester a year ago, and will return for the Summer School and the fall term. Mr. HoUis has been on our faculty for the last year, and has contracted to remain with us for another three years. Mr. Lunn has lectured here, and Mr. Watkin is a newcomer to this country. Fa­ther Gillis, Monsignor Sheen, Richard Reid, this year's Laetare Medalist, will each give a series of lectures on Apologetics. 
Apologeticrs Scholarships 

An appeal to the alumni for funds to assist with this particular work has resulted in the establishment of two full scholarships of 51500 each, covering the average school expenses for a graduate student for two years. Additional gifts have started two other scholarships, one in memory of Father Cavanaugh and the other in memory of Father Hudson. Ten such. scholarships are needed to put tills important work on a firm foot­ing. Current scholarships are cal­
June. 1936 
culated at $1500 each. A perpetual foundation can be established for ?15,000. 
The Year's Gifts 
Cash gifts received during the year amount to $315,500, gifts of land and materials bring the total beyond the ?350,000 mark. The largest cash gift received was one of ?194,000, from the estate of the late John F. Cushing, final payment on his pledge of 5300,000 for the erection of the College of Engineer­ing. Two scholarship gifts of 515,000 each were received. By the one. Miss Anna C. Slavin memorialized her uncle, the late Professor Martin J.' McCue, providing for a graduate student in sciences connected with Engineering. By the other, the widow of the late William E. Donahue, for­mer advertising manager of the Chi­cago Tribune, provided perpetually for the education at Notre Dame of a student from Annunciation Parish, Chicago. Special mention should also be made of an anonymous gift of 145,000 — $15,000 a year for three years — to promote basic re­search in Economics. Fathers Fogar­ty and Keller and Professor HoUis have been assigned to this work. 
Infirmary Opened 

A magnificent new Students' In­firmary was opened during the Easter week of this year. In addi­tion to the Biology Building men­tioned previously, the University has under construction at the present time a new residence hall to be opened in September. The new hall will house 196 Freshmen. The in­crease in religious members of the faculty has made it necessary to pro­vide more living quarters for priests, and Corby Hall will be withdrawn from students next year for this pur­pose. The renovation of the hall has begun this week, and those new fac­ulty quarters are promised for Sep­tember. 
It has been a year of great bless­ings, and we have much to thank God for. Student health has been good; the religious tone has been ex­ceptionally fine. The total number of Holy Communions received this year was 328,489, as compared with 317,222 last year, an increase of 11,267. The daily average was 1,422, as compared with 1,373, an increase of 49 over the daily average of last year. During Lent especially, the Daily Adoration of the Blessed Sac­rament continued to be a source of great blessings. At times during Lent, there were as many as 40 stu­dents present at one time for a par­ticular half-hour period of adoration. In. all humility, we give thanks to God, and we ask your prayers for a continuance of His protection over this school of Our Lady. 
June. 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 
» » » 

Director of Athletic Publicity 
ATHLETICS 
Space will not permit a detailed account of Notre Dame's greatest athletic year, so we shall let figures speak largely for themselves in this resume. In dual competition the Irish record shows victory in 80 per­cent of all contests. More than half of the year's 15 defeats are account­able to tennis and cross-country, the only sports on the program to fall below the .842 mark. A tabulation of Notre Dame percentages follows: 
SPORTS W L T Pet. Fencing 9 0 0 1.000 Track 8 0 0 1.000 Basketball 22 2 1 .917 Golf 9 10 .900 Football 7 1 1 .87S Baseball 16 3 0 .842 Cross-Country 2 2 0 .500 Tennis 2 6 0 .333 
Totals 7S 15 2 .800 

The diplomatic corps would have a hard time to decide which sport to lead oif with in a case like this, bat, for reasons which will soon become evident, we give the nod to the track team. 
Undefeated in its last 11 dual matches (including a triangular with Ohio State and Michigan State which shall be referred to hereafter, for the sake of brevity, as a dual meet), the track team won eight dual matches in 1936. It also defeated Indiana's Big Ten champions in the state meet and a very fast field in the Central Intercollegiate confer­ence indoor meet. Notre Dame dom­inated the Drake relays and would have won had points been awarded for places. In the triangular meet Notre Dame nosed out Ohio State, one of the strongest teams in the middle west. The Irish closed their season by taking fourth in the C.I.C. outdoor meet. 
There is no disputing the fact that the 1936 team was the best in Notre Dame history. You would have to look far and wide to find a better dual meet team east of the Eockies. The record follows: 
(Indoor) Notre Dame. 63; ChicaRO. 41 Notre Dame, 49 1-3; Martiuettc, 412-3 Notre Dame, 64 2-3 : Northwestern, 30 1-3 Notre Dame, 51; Illinois, 50 (Outdoor) Notre Dame, 79 1-6: PittsburKh, 46 5-6 Notre Dame, 721-2; Navy, 531-2 Notre Dame, 81 2-3; Marquette 49 1-3 
(Trianffulor) Notre Dame, 71 3-4 : Ohio State, 70 1-2; Mich­igan State, 491-3. 
(Indoor Central Conference) Notre Dame, 30 3-4 for first place. . 
(Indiana State Meet) Notre Dame, 67; Indiana, 64 ; Purdue, 13 1-2 
(Outdoor Central CJonference) 

Notre Dame 26 6-7 points for fourth 
(Meet Records Established) Marquette indoor meet—Elser 48:8 3-4 in shot put. Northwestern meet—Elsor 47:9 1-2 in shot put; Mile relay, 3:26.1: Mahoney, 7:4 in 65­yd. lows. Ulinois meet—Frnwley 7.4 in 65-yd. lows (tie) ; Francis, 1:57.5 in 880-yd. run: Elser, 
49:2 in shot put: Meagher 23:5 3-4 in broad 
jump. St. Louis Relays—Elser 48:8 3-4 in shot put 
C.I.C. Indooi^Elser 48:113-4 in shot put Pittsburgh meet—Gibbs 12:6 in pole vault (tie). 
Na\'y—McKenna 4:26.6 in mile run : Mc-Farlane 9:43 in two mile run: Elser 49:2 1-2 in shot put: Levicki 142:61-2 in discus throw. 
Marquette outdoor meet—Elser 24.5 in low hurdles; Bernard 48.8 in 440 dash; Gibbs 13:11-4 in pole vault; Mile relay—3:22.3. 
(Notre Dame Records) Elser 49:2 in shot put (indoor). Elser 23.7 in low hurdles (outdoor). 8S0-rcIay 1.-27.3 (outdoor). 
(Gymnasium Records) Elser 49:2 in shot put Meagher 23:5 3-4 in broad jump. 
(Cartier Field Records) Mile relay 3:20.8. Bernard 48.8 in 440 yard dash. 
Monogram winners in track in­cluded the following six graduating point winners: Captain George Meagher, holder of 10 broad jump records including the Notre Dame in­door and outdoor; Don Elser, holder of 23 records, including the 220­yard low hurdle, and indoor and out­door Notre Dame shot put marks; Bob Bernard, John Michuta, Joe Mc­Grath and Paul Rubly. Returning lettermen are Captain-elect Charles Jordan, Eddie Boyle, John Cavanagh, Bill Clifford, John Francis, Jack Frawley, Dan Gibbs, Arch Gott, Har­old Langton, Bill Mahoney, Bill Mc­Carthy, John McKenna, Jim Parsons and Pete Sheehan. 
The season gave Coach John Nich­olson a nine year record of 41 vic­tories, 18 defeats, and a tie in dual competition; six indoor C.I.C. titles, three outdoor C.I.C. titles, and five Indiana state championships. A good third of his point winners are men who never wore track shoes before coming to Notre Dame. 
BASEBALL 
Coach Jake Kline just turned out the best Notre Dame baseball team in the past quarter century—^since 1910 to be exact—only to find his sport ranked sixth in the year's rank­ing. Sixteen victories against three defeats gave Jake a three-year rec­ord of 35 -inctories, 21 defeats and a .643 percentage. 
Lettermen were: Captain Frank Gaul, Matt Themes, Andy Scafati, Joe Ponzevic, Harold Heagan, Geoi^e Wentworth, Wally Promlart, Andy Pilney, Arnold Velcheck, Captain-elect Ennio Arboit, John Goncher, Oscar Rydell, and Chuck Borowsld. The last four named here will be back next year. Borowsld played right field last season, and the other three are pitchers. Kline loses sir of his first seven hitters, Scafati hav­ing led the club with a .348 average. Pilney was second with .346, Ponze­vic third with .344 and BorowsM fourth with .324. The club batted .282 and fielded .940, both credit­able marks, considering that most op­ponents threw their best pitchers at the Irish in order to halt the Irish rush, and, in some cases, to save their own seasons. Bydell, with three vic­tories and no defeats, and Arboit, with seven victories in eight starts, led the pitchers. 
The complete record follows: 
Notre Dame, \7 Toledo, 6 Notre Dame, 8 : Chicago, 2 Notre Dame, 18 Purdue. IS Notre Dame, 5 riinois, 4 Notre Dame, 12 Michigan State, 3 Notre Dame, 5 : Toledo, 4 Notre Dame. 8 Chicago, 0 Notre Dame, 2 : Wisconsin, 5 Notre Dame, 10 Northwestern, 3 
Notre Dame. 3 Louisiana Poly. 1Notre Dame. 9 ; Western State, 8Notre Dame. 2 Ohio State. 1Notre Dame, 4 
Purdue, 6

Notre Dame, 8 Indiana. 5Notre Dame, 4 : Western State. 1Notre Dame, 3 Northwestern, 0Notre Dame. 13 • Wisconsin, 8Notre Dame. 5 
; Iowa. 10. 

Notre Dame, 6 Michigan State. 4 
GOLF 
Although Notre Dame has gone un­defeated four of the seven years it has been in intercollegiate golf, since the opening of the William J. Burke-Notre Dame course in 1930, the 1936 season ranks very near the top in the brief history of the sport on the cam­pus. The only defeat came at the hands of Louisiana State by the mar­gin of one point. To win, two Loui­siana State golfers had to get four birdies on the last three holes. The next day they defeated Michigan, de­fending national champions, by a larger score. 
Captain Winfield Day, Jr., four times University champion, became the only Notre Dame golfer to win the state collegiate title twice when he finished the 72 holes vrith a 304 card. The team won with 1,289. They were the sixth individual and sixth team titles for Notre Dame in seven years. The seven-year dual match record is 49 -victories against four defeats. During the past sea­son Bill Taylor, Sophomore from De­troit, set an amateur course record of 69 for the local layout. Taylor and Lloyd Martz, Freshman from De­troit, qualified for the National Open. One of the features of the year was the exhibition match in vrhich Law­son Little, Horton Smith, Jimmy Thompson, and Bud Donovan, Notre Dame Freshman, appeared. Smith shot an eagle three on the 506-yard 18th to set a course record of 67 and to enable Donovan and himself to defeat Little and Thompson, one up. 
The golf record follows: 
Notre Dame, 11% ; Washington U.. 6V2 Notre Dame. 145*: Chicago, 3% Notre Dame. 17; Blinois, 10 Notre Dame, 13^ : Northwestern 7% Notre Dame. 8^ : Louisiana State. 9% Notre Dame. 14: Purdue. 4 Notre Dame, 12 : Wisconsin. 9 Notre Dame. W/.: Ohio State. 1% Notre Dame. 8%: Michigan State, 3% Notre Dame. 8 : Pittsburgh. 1 

Following are the lettermen who compiled this fine record tinder the tutelage of the Rev. George L. Hol­derith, C.S.C, coach of golf: Captain Win Day, Jr., Pat Malloy, Herman Green, Captain - elect Lou Fehlig, brother of 1934 captain, Vince Feh­lig; Bill Taylor, Bill Castleman, and Bob Wilke, the football star. The first three were graduated. 
• 

TENNIS Captain - Elect Joe McNulty cli­maxed an otherwise uneventful Notre Dame season by winning the Indiana state college singles title, and, with Bill Fallon, going to the finals in the state doubles. Both will be back next season. Other lettermen, all of whom graduated, are: Captain Joe Waldron, Joe Prendergast and George Cannon. The record follows: 
Notre Dame. 0 ntinois, 6 Notre Dame. 6 Detroit. 3 Notre Dame. 6 ; Bradley. 3 
Notre Dame, 2 ; Kentucky. 7 Notre Dame, 0 : Chicago. 9 Notre Dame, 1 Ohio State. 8 Notre Dame, 1 Michigan State. 

FOOTBALL 
Football and basketball were cov­ered in earlier issues of the ALUM­NUS, but, for completeness, the rec­ords of these teams are repeated here. 
Notre Dame, 28; Kansas, 7 Notre Dame, 14: Carnegie Tech, 3 Notre Dame. 28: Wisconsin. 0 Notre Dame, 9; Pittsburgh. 6 Notre Dame. 14; Navy. 0 Notre Dame. 18; Ohio State, 13 Notre Dame, 7; Northwestern, 14 Notre Dame, 6 ; Army, 6 Notre Dame, 20; Southern California. 13 

BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame, 62; Albion, 26 Notre Dame, 45; St, Mary's. 22 Notre Dame, 65; Kalamazoo, 17 Notre Dame, 71; St. Joseph. 22 Notre Dame, S8; James MUiken, 30 
Notre Dame, 35; •Washington U.. 2* Notre Dame, 40; Northwestern, 29 Notre Dame, 40; Purdue, 54 
Notre Dame, 20; Northwestern. 20 Notre Dame, 29; Minnesota, 27 Notre Dame, 43; PittshurBh. 35 Notre Dame, 37; Marquette, 22 
Notre Dame, 37; Pennsylvania. Notre Dame, 46; Syracuse. 43 Notre Dame. 35; BuUer, 27 Notre Dame, 53; St. Benedict's. Notre Dame, 33; Illinois. 23 Notre Dame, 41; Kentucky. 20 Notrt Dame, 38; New York U.. Notre Dame, 43; Pittsburgh, 27 Notre Dame, 37; Minnesota, 15 Notre Dame, 34; Butler. 30 Notre Dame. 23 Ohio State. 28 Notre Dame. 37; Marquette. 34 Notre Dame, 51; Detroit, 28 

FENCING Fencing, recognized at the June meeting of the faculty board in con­trol of athletics as an official Uni­versity sport, turned out the follow­ing lettermen: Co-Captain Carlos de Landero, Co-Captain Kevin O'Neill Patrick Kehoe; Captain-Elect Telmo de Landero, Richard Snooks, Bob Seco, and Jack McAuliffe. Carlos, Kehoe and Snooks were graduated. The middle western championship record follows: 
Notre Dame, 11: Purdue, 6 
Notre Dame, 11: Michigan State, 6 Notre Dame, 9; Ohio Stale. 8 Notre Dame, 9: Chicago. S Notre Dame, 9>4: Purdue. 715 Notre Dame, 10: Northwestern. 7 Notre Dame, 9V.; Cincinnati. 7^5 Notre Dame. 12"/.; Michigan State, ihiNotre Dame, 13 : Washington U.. 4 

MISCELLANEOUS 
The Joe Bolands welcomed Joe, Jr., May 23. The John O'Briens were only a week later with their third, Dolores. Art Haley and his four are getting over whooping cough. El­mer Layden's two and the author's infant daughter are afflicted in the same way. In the fact of all this, Bob Cabin, Elmer Layden's right hand, married Mary Cass, Editor Armstrong's right hand. George Keogan has gone fishing. 
CATHOLIC PREP TRACK 
Establishment of six new meet records in 14 events and the tying of two others is evidence of the im­petus Catholic high school track has received from the three-year old Notre Dame National Catholic Inter­scholastic Track and Field meet, the third annual running of which was held on Cartier field, June 5 and 6, in connection with Commencement. 
Since two races were run in each of three events, there were actually 17 events. Marks made this year were better than those made last year in eight events, equal in three, and inferior in six. Of the six, two were in the half mile, one in the mile, and one in the quarter mile. All were hampered by a stiff south wind, which aided straightaway events to some extent. The balance and tim­ing needed for the field events was also hampered by the wind, but three of five field event marks were better this year than last, with another even. 
West Catholic of Philadelphia, in winning its third straight meet, was somewhat less impressive than it has been the past two years, largely be­cause of the improvement of Chica­go's Catholic prep champions, De-Paul. DePaul took seven first places to West Catholic's four, but the Phil­adelphians still had the team balance to win. 

Two hundred and twenty-nine ath­letes from 20 schools were repre­sented. Following are the final team standings: 
West Catholic Philadelphia 5515 Be Paul, Chimgo -41 
St. Ambrose, Davenport, Iowa _14 De LaSalle^ Chicago . n 
11 
in 
— V' 
s 
s 
a 
9. 
, n 
1 
, n 

Decatur, Ind., Catholic n 
The winners of the various events follow: 
100-YARD DASH—Steve Couehlin, De Paul. Time. 10 flat (Meet record). 
120-YARD INTEniMEDIATE HURDLES— Jim Callahan, Cathedral Latin. Time, 15.1 seconds (Meet record). 
200-YARD LOW HURDLES—Charles Mc-Neilly, West Catholic Time. 23.2 seconds. (Ties meet record) 
220-Y.\RD DASH—Steve (^ughlin. De Paul. Time. 22 flat (Meet record) 440-YARD DASH—(First section)—Ed But­ler, De Paul. Time. 52.5 seconds. 440-YARD DASH—(Second section) —Bob Booth, De Paul, Time. 51.5 seconds. 880-YARD RUN—(First section) — John Kinney, Mt. Carmel. Time, 2:04.8. 880-YARD RUN—(Second section)—Jim Walker West Catholic Time, 2:05.3. MILE.RUN—(First section)—Ed O'Connor, St. (krarge. Time, 4:44.9. MILE RUN—(Second section)—Grab. De Paul. Time. 4:43.7. POLE VAULT—Jack Dougherty. Mt. Car­mel. Height. 11 feet. (Ties meet record) SHOT PUT—Qarence Wiatrak. De Paul. Distance. 48 feet 3^5 inches. BROAD JUMP—Steve Juzwik. DePauI. Dis­tance. 21 feet 915 inches. (Meet record) DISCUS THROW—Frank Hollender, De La-Salle. Distance. 114 feet 715 inches. HIGH JUilP—John Devine (West Cath­olic). Height. 5 feet 914 inches. (Meet record) JAVELIN THROW—Ross Carney (St. Am­brose). Distance, 157 feet 7 inches. 
880-YARD RELAY—West Ciitholic (Art Summers. Jack McWilliams. Jack Harkins. John Maher). Time, 1:31.9 (Meet record). (Sood Counsel, second; and St. Ignatius, third, also broke meet record. 
Meet records which stood up under the onslaught are: 
200-YARD LOW HURDLES—23.2. Dunne. St. George. 1935 (Tied). 440-YARD DASH—.10.3 seconds, Doorey, West Catholic, 1935. 880-YARD RUN — 2 minutes .6 second. Reeves, West (Sitholic, 1935. MILE RUN—Four minutes 34.8 seconds. O'Leary, West Catholic. 1934. 
POLE VAULT—11 feet. Tonelli. De Paul, 1934 : Cblbr, Marmion: Barbera. West Cath­olic: and Bymers, St. Ambrose. 1935. (Tied). 
SHOT PUT—19 feet 815 inches. Palmer. Northeast Catholic of Philadelphia. 1935. JAVELIN THROW—163 feet 1 inch. Din­een. West Catholic. 1934. DISC!US THROW—124 feet 1015 inches. Ballatin, St. Aloysius. New Orleans. 1934. 
June. 1936 The Not.re Dame Alumnus 
Commencement Address 
(Contlmied from Fase 254) 

Regarding Football Tickets for *36 
Season Tickets Seats at Money 

Secretary James Armstrong of the Alumni association and Business Manager J. Arthur Haley of the Athletic association have conspired these past several weeks to bring about a plan wereby alumni may see all of Notre Dame's home games in choice seats, and have enough left over to pay their annual alumni dues of five dollars, with fifty cents to spare. 
It's all explained in the attractive season ticket folder which issued from Art Haley's office recently. Ticket prices (sideline) for home games are as follows: 
Oct. 3—Carnegie Tech $3.30 Oct. 10—Washington U. 2.20 Oct. 17—Wisconsin 3.30 Oct. 31—Ohio Sute 4.40 Nov. 21—^Northwestern 3.30 
$16.50 The season ticket price is ?11.00 including tax, which, as all will agree, is a saving of $5.50 over the individual game price, sufficient to pay the yearly dues, with the price of a haircut left over. The attractive home schedule bar­gain may be secured on the partial payment plan. The season ticket sections are the best available, on a par with the stu­dent, alumni preference, and visiting team sections. P\irthermore it pro­vides the option of sitting on either side of the field. The season ticket provides for good seats at the same price one would pay for seats behind the goal posts for home games if these were bought individually. Following are the be-hind-the-goal-post prices: 
Oct. 3—Carnegie Tech $1.65 Oct. 10—Washington U. 1.10 Oct. 17—^Wisconsin 1.65 Oct. 31—Ohio Sute 4.40 Nov. 21—^Northwestern 2.20 
$11.00 
The season ticket sale opens June 

25. 
Application blanks for individual game tickets will be mailed July 20, with the sale opening August 1. The alumni preference will be granted only those whose dues are paid for 1936-37 (previous repudiations don't count against one), and the prefer­ence will be allowed until Septem­ber 1. 
But for alumni in the vicinity of 

the camj)us, we cannot urge too 
strongly that you take advantage of 
Provide Choice 
•Saving Prices. 
the season ticket offer, probably the most generous in Notre Dame his­tory. If your announcement and blank did not arrive, kindly notify the Football Ticket Committee, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
If your alumni preference blanks are not in your hands by July 25, also please notify the committee. 
The away from home games fol­low: 
Oct. 24 Pittsburgh at PitUburgh Nov. 7—Navy at Baltimore Nov. 14—Army at New York Dec 5—Southern California at 
Los Angeles 

Prices for these games have not been set. 
noting the changes that are manifest in his increasing perception of cul­tural things, the imagination always developing on the basis of the facts as they appear, it is obvious that the study of biology has been largely neglected by many of our institutions of learning. It is of great interest to know that Notre Dame accords place to biology, as witnessed by the new building and increased equipment which are projected for the study of this fundamental science. 
My father lived in the time of the pioneer. My brother and I have lived through the time of the development of a great country: wasteful, profli­gate, yes, but still a great country. Today the people at large are pin­ning their hopes of the future on the stars and stripes, the flag of educa­tion. 
And let me say that these remarks have been made as a prelude to the corollary that education does pay. 
Club Council Proceedin9s 
(Continued from 

appeared on the program, citizens of corresponding interests—I a w y e r s, bankers, doctors, etc.—could be in­vited to the meeting to supplement the alumni attendance. 
WEEK-END PROGRAM The Notre Dame Club of Central Ohio was lauded for its complete and attractive program supplementing the Ohio State game in Columbus last fall. 
AUXILIARY GUILD Rhode Island attracted the repre­sentatives toward a new and valuable field with its organization under club auspices of women friends of Notre Dame under the title, the Notre Dame Guild of Rhode Island, now number­ing more than 100 members. 
WIDESPREAD MEMBERS Berrien County reported its policy of solving geographic scope by bal­anced committees and shifting centers of activity throughout the county. PRESS AND RADIO RELATIONS Detroit reported the successful cul­tivation of press and radio interests as outlets for favorable Notre Dame publicity, through the inclusion of representatives of these guilds in Club functions, largely by way of the Notre Dame men in those fields in Detroit. OTHER CATHOLIC ALUMNI Cincinnati reported the results of its first effort to entertain the alum­ni of other Catholic colleges who. re­side in Cincinnati, with the excep­tion of the local Catholic college alumni. Need for more planning of 
 Page 271) 
this type of program was reported from this particular meeting, but the idea generally met with interest. 
LAY CATHOLIC LEADERSHIP 
Fort Wayne answered the question of the possibilities of the Catholic college man as a leader in Catholic activities, with a staggering list of Catholic activities led by Notre Dame alumni in Fort Wayne. The list is a sermon on Catholic action and Cath­olic education in one. 
NOTRE DAME DANCES 
The Twin Cities revealed the methods by which the Chiistmas dance of that numerically small or­ganization has become the outstand­ing social event of the holidays in the face of several more local and stronger competitive events. 
President Voll expressed his appre­ciation for the active and construc­tive programs which resulted from Club initiative during the year. 
The process by which the football films became so popular and in such demand was outlined and the diffi­culties involved were discussed. 
In all, the discussions of the above points brought out a definite inter­est in strengthening the Clubs. It brought out, too, the fact that the Clubs are no longer haphazard and fluctuating groups, but are, in large part, civic entities and rapidly assum­ing proportions of importance, and significance. 
As the Club Council itself grows in attendance and representation, the results, too, will increase in their im­portance as a guide and stimulus to Club development 
The Notre Dame Alumnus June, 1936 
Association Elects New Officers for 1936 
President Hughes Launches Campaign to Hold Ground Gained and to Increase Activity and Utility of Associa­tion, Particularly in Those Projects Aiding Members 
THE 1936-37 BOARD 
Arthur J. Hushes, 'II , Chicasc III President Ray J. Eichenlaub, '15, Columbus, Ohio First Vice-President Henry I. Dockweiler, '12, Los Anseles, Cal Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame Secretary-Treasurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame Assistant Secretary 
Fred L. Steers, 'II , Chicago, III James E. Deery, '10, Indianapolis, Ind. Don P. O'Keefe, '03, Detroit, Mich Joseph M. Byrne Jr., '15, Newark, N. J Bernard J. Voll. '17, South Bend, Ind Director to A Member of the Class of '36 (by Ballot) 
THE 1936-37 DISTRIQ GOVERNORS 
Alexis Coquillard, '03, South Bend, Ind Fred L. Steers, 'II , Chicago Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17, Pittsburgh, Pa Eugene A. O'Brien, '28, Minneapolis, Minn Dr. John T. Burns, '13, Kalamazoo, Mich 
B. K. Wingerter, "26, East Orange, N. J. Hugh A. O'Donnell, '94, New York City John J. Huether, '22, Schenectady, N. Y Thomas Collins, '28, Fall River, Mass Anselm D. Miller, '25, Roanoke, Va Frank W. Thomas, '23, Tuscaloosa, Ala William Reisert Jr., "29, Louisville, Ky Cyprian Sporl Jr., '28, New Orleans, La 
D. Patrick Buell, '24, Dallas, Texas Norbert Skelly, '25, Tulsa, Okia Clarence Ruddy, '27, Aurora, 111 Earl W. Brown, '93, Helena, Mont James P. Logan, '18, Denver, Colo Julius J. Danch, '25, Phoenix, Ariz 
W. Breen McDonald, '17, San Francisco, Calif. Samuel M. Dolan, '10, North Bend, Ore : 
To be elected 
You are familiar by this time with the changes. The death of Father Nieuwland has left the Association without an honorary president for the year. 
In the active field, however, the very able retiring president Bernard 
J. Voll, is succeeded fay Arthur J. Hughes, whose brilliant record in Chicago's legal circles atnd whose familiarity and activity in Notre Dame campus and alumni matters promise to carry on the progress of past administrations. 
Ray J. Eichenlaub, '15, as first vice-president, brings a drive that any football fan can describe vivid­ly, and any alumnus who visited 
 Director to 1937  Director to 1938  Director to 1939  Director to 1940  1937 (ex-officio)  Director to 1937 
 District I 
 District 2 
 District 3 
 District 4 
 District 5 
 District 6 
 District 7 
 District 8 
 District .9 
 District 10 
 District 11 
 District 12 
 District 13 
 District 14 
 District 15 
 District 16 
 District 17 
 District 18 
 District 19 
 District 20 
 District 21 
 District 22 

Columbus the week-end of the Ohio State game can subscribe to. 
Henry I. Dockweiler, '12, carries the colors of the Board to a loyal, and interested, and active, part of the country, which, by virtue of dis­tance, is the least contacted in every way. His own record of activity and interest, however, should strengthen the bonds between Notre Dame and the Pacific coast. 
Similarly, on the Eastern seaboard, Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, knowing the traditions of Notre Dame and the Association from a preceding gener­ation of love and loyalty, comes to the Board of Directors with a per­sonal record of activity, initiative and wide acquaintance that makes the Coast-to-Coast coverage of the Board as complete as it has ever been. 
The value of Bernard J. VoU's year in the presidency is hoarded constitutionally by his retention as director ex-officio during the ensuing year, so that the continuity of ad­ministrations promises to utilize the talents of the new Board to the full. 
Last in chronology, but valuable as experience has shown, the Class of 1936 will elect a director for the year, whose fresh viewpoint on the young alumnus and his problems, and his relations with the University, have come to be an integral part of the counsel of the Association. 
Holding over are Fred Steers, '11, Jim Deery, '10, and Don O'Keefe, '03, whose contributions to the Board are best appreciated by the officers, but obvious to the entire member­ship in the progress of the Associ­ation. 
But speaking for the above and for the Alumni Oifice, no system of alumni organization will work unless the alumni as a unit participate in the program. It is your Association. These are your agents. To the de­gree that your failure to respond hampers their plans, you hamper your own interests. 
Alumni Clubs 
AKRON 
William G. Burkhardt, '35: 50 Mayfidd Ave, Akron. President.- lAwrencc H. Halt­er, '31, 58 Hawtliorne Ave., Aliron, Sec­retary. 

The Akron Alumni Club, at its meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night, elected the following oflicers: William Burkhardt, president; John 
M. Doran, vice-president and treas­urer; Lawrence H. Holter, secretary. 
We had a good attendance, for a change, and the evening was spent eating, drinking beer, and playing cards, in the tap room of the Burk­hardt Brewing Company. We have our new president to thank for our enjoyable evening. 
During the course of the evening we listened to the national broadcast 
June. 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 279 
and also to an entertaining speech on Universal Notre Dame Night given by Stephen Wozniak, '28, over Sta­tion WJW, Akron. 
The club is planning on a series of parties for the coming year, but as yet definite arrangements have 
•not been made. 
L. H. Halter. 

ARIZONA June* D. Barry, '97, Consolidated Bank 
Bids., Tacaon, President. Steven BebeH, 
"26, 620 N. Sixth St. Tucson, Sccrctair. 

ARKANSAS Eev. Geo. F. X. Strassner, 'U, Hope, Ark,, 
President. Bart L. Roberts, 1325 LInooIn 
Ave.. Little Rock, Ark., Secretary. 

BENGAL Rt. Kev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C,, '02. 
Dacca, Benga], India, President. Rev. J. 
J. Hennessey, C.S.C., '02. Dacca. Ben^, 
India. Secretary. 

BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) 
Wm. H. Downey, '28, 1615 Oak SL, Niles. 
Mich., President. Malcolm K. HatBeld, 
•29, 2305 Niles Ave., St Joseph. Mich., 
Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Club of Berrien County is sponsoring a sea-plane base for St. Joseph, Michigan. It is hoping that in establishing an air drome the Government will enlarge it so that it may be used as an aux­iliary to the Great Lakes air drome. 
On Monday, June 8, the Club met 
•svith the National Aeronautical As­sociation of the Hotel Whitcomb in St. Joseph and laid plans for the base. The club was also responsible for bringing Professor Brown, head of the Department of Aeronautical Engineering of Notre Dame, to St. Joseph to speak in behalf of the proj­ect. Professor Brown's talk was en­thusiastically received by social and cii-ic leaders who are interested in the project. 
Malcolm Hatfield. 

BOSTON 
Jarlath (Jack) Sktteiy. '21, 226 L. St, 
So. Beaton, Mass., President James Ska­
han. *31, 5 Grove St, Belmont Mass., Sec­
retary. 
BUFFALO 
John G. Byrne. '23, 149 Monroe Dr.. 'Wil­
liamaville, tf. Y., President Robert Ueaser, 
'34, The Amherst Bee Co., Main & Rock 
Sts.. Willlamsville, N.Y., Secretary. 
CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind-IIL) John Rohrbach. '23. Crown Point, Indiana. 
President Fred J. Salman. Jr.. '28, E752 
Eric Ave.. Hammond. Indiana. Secretary. 
On a recent invasion of the Calu­met Region the Managing Editor was presented with the news that, at a recent meeting, John Melrin Rohr­bach, of Crown Point, had been elected president of the Calnmeteers, with Rocco Schiralli, of Gary, as vice - president, and Fred Solman, Hammond, and Hugh Carroll, East Chicago, re - elected secretary and treasurer, respectively. Bill Travis, Hammond, retired as president, after a term of accomplishment and gen­erous co-operation with the Alumni Office. 
George Keogan was the guest of the club at the election meeting and spoke on campus affairs. Enthu­siastic comments two weeks later bore testimony as to George's effec­tiveness as a speaker. 
CAPITOL DISTRICT (New York) Richard S. Walsh, '31. 2191 Plaza, Schen­
cctiidy, N.Y , President John B. Land, '34. 
4 Hedgewood Ave., Schenectady, Secretary. 

Universal Notre Dame Night brought out a large group to the annual dinner and business meeting. This function, which was held at Keeler's Restaurant in Albany , proved to be a howling success from this newcomer's viewpoint who ven­tured out East from the rolling plains of the Middle West less than two years ago. 
-Arrangements were handled by the inimitable Clare Tuohey, who finish­ed a most successful year as presi­dent of our organization. Doc, as he is known to his more intimate friends, being a lawyer of no mean ability, suggested at the beginning of his tenure that he was going to run the club on a business enterprise basis and that we could take it or leave it. Did he do it? Well, I should say so. Results were evident from a list of greater activities, more favor­able financial status as well as a larger attendance at meetings. 
Following the dinner the year's ac­tivities under Clare's regime were surveyed and I should appreciate re­viewing the more important func­tions but as they have found their way to your desk previously I shall not bother. 
During the course of presenting facts to the club concerning finances, functions, and membership drive, the 'old Carroll Hall bull session' (not so long ago either) got rolling downhill. Suggestions were made and sugges­tions were revoked, all to the delight and merriment of those present. The men of the Capital District are high­ly concerned about the future suc­cess and growth of their organiza­tion. 
While one of the discussions was in progress, former Mayor Jimmy Walker of New York City dropped in to gather an earful of a true Notre Dame man standing high and mighty for his rights. Jimmy was so im­pressed with the group that he want­ed to know when and where the next meeting would be held. 
Time ont was taken for election of the following officers: Ricluurd S. Walsh, president; Edward J. Eclcert, vice-president; John B. Land, secre­tary-treasurer. 
The men appointed to constitute the board of governors are: Thomas Farley, Ronald McNamee, Frank Ma­har, Mike Leding, Clare Tnohey, L^r­ry O'Neil, Elmo Mower, and John Rainey. 
Brother John Baptist, C. S. C , of the Vincentian Institute, Albany, was appointed, by unanimous appro^^ of the club, honorary chairman. 
Larry O'Neil and Dan Cunha, who are making history in local coaching circles, were appointed as a commit-' tee to study and pass judgement on the eligible high school football champions of the Capital District to receive the 1936 Eockne Trophy, which is presented annually by the club. 
John Rainey, '35, presented a mo­tion which was passed to take full responsibility of the Christmas dance. John served as chairman of one of the previous dances, consequently he knows how difficult it is for the stu­dents home on vacation, with the short period allotted, to drum np enough customers for a successful dance. 
The time and place for the spring outing will be taken up by the board of governors at its first meeting. 

George Como, '34, who is vei^ busy being proprietor of the Schen­ectady Art Press, printed our station­ery at a sizeable discount. 
Guests at the dinner included the four Holy Cross Brothers who are now in charge of the Vincentian In­stitute. John B. Land. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Raymond J. Eiehenlaub. IS, Hotter Real­
ty Bide., Colnnibiu, Pzcsldait. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. G. J. Hermes; 16, 1910 Oakland St. 
lansinr, Presideiit X Harver GantUer, 
'30, Bark River, MicblgaB, Seeretary. 
Central Pennsylvania 
(New Clob) Leonard Bums, '25. 1635 20th Ave.. AI­toona. Pa.. President William McAlecr, '31, 1518 19th Ave., Altoona, Pa.. Secretary. 
On Universal Notre Dame Night a very representative group of alnnmi from this section had a banquet and meeting for the double purpose of observing the famed night and for the formation of a Central Pennsyl­vania Notre Dame alnmni dub. The meeting was conducted by Leonard Bums, the regulation charter was 
adopted and the following officers were elected: 
William A. Correll, '94, Johns­town, honorary president; Rev. Mor­gan M. Sheedy; pastor of the Cathe­dral parish of the Altoona diocese, and the holder of an honorary degree from Notre Dame, chaplain; Leonard Bums, Altoona, president; Eugene Vallely, Dubois, vice-presi­dent; William McAIeer, Altoona, sec­retary; Norbert Rascher, Altoona, treasurer; Robert Barry, Johnstown, and James Vallely, Dubois, were ap­pointed assistant secretaries by the secretary. William Clear, Altoona, was appointed assistant treasurer by the treasurer. 
The alumni attending the meeting were: Leonard Bums, Norbert Ras­cher, Terence Wharton, Charles Mc­AIeer, George Martin, William Clear, John Hoffmann, Leo Kanneley, and William McAleer, of Altoona; David Barry, William Correll, Robert Barry, of Johnstown; James Vallely and Eu­gene Vallely, of Dubois; Donald Schetting of Ebensburg, and Joseph Maxwell, of Gallitzin. 
Before the meeting invitations were sent to all alumni within a radius of 50 miles of Altoona. In addition to the number attending, replies were received from quite a few other invitees that they could not possibly attend the meeting but that they would support the club in any way at all in the future, so I believe that within the near future we will have a very representative organi­zation. 
Tentative plans w:ere discussed for activities for the year to come which will be handle d more definitely at our next scheduled get-together which will be the laymens' retreat at St. Francis college, Loretto, early in June. 
If a good beginning rates all the merit it is alleged to, our club should really go places. 
Bill McAleer. 

CHICAGO Edward W. Gtmld, '23, 1313 W. RandolDh St., President Patrick F. Crowley, '33. 742 Junior Terrace, Secretary. 
CINCINNATI 
Harry V. Crumley, '03, 265B S. Harrison 
Ave.. Westwood Branch, President. Frank 

H. Sweeney, ex. '17, Kemper Lane HoW, Secretary. Frank Sweeney sent the following notes in re: Cincinnati: Just too late for the May issue— 
We note Leo DuBois and Larry Zeff driving up in new automobiles. 
It is, indeed, gratifying to learn of the progress of Notre Dame men, especially the case of Ed Moriar­ity, who has been promoted from assistant manager to credit manager of the Netherland Plaza Hotel, one of the links in the Ralph Hitz chain. 
Edward J. Moore, 1908 and 1909, is back in town after a wonder­ful Winter in Miami, and was in Louisville for the Derby. 
Just heard that the HOLC have acquired two good men in the per­sons of Joe Peiper in the legal de­partment and Anthony Hauke in the accounting department. 
CLEVELAND 
J. Patrick Canny, '28. 1660 Warren Road. Lakewood, Oliio, President: Lawrence Krai. '31. 276 E. 272 St. Qeveland, Oliio. 

At the business meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland at Chuck Rohr's, on May 11, the annual habit of selecting new officers was indulged in. Pat Canny was unan­imously selected president for the new fiscal year. Paul Castner, vice-president, Larry Krai, secretary, and Al Grisanti, treasurer. In the ab­sence of Pat, who was out of town, Clayt Leroux, the outgoing president, turned the reins over to Paul Castner. 
. From our entire group comes a word of appreciation to the officers going out: Clayt Leroux, president, Chet Brumleve, vice-president, Oty Winchester, secretary, and Bill Van. Rooy, treasurer, who really got their heads together to turn out a fine thorough program. We have enjoyed so many good administrations, we're going to have to step, but we're out to step proper. 
Dan Cannon is a newcomer here, selling securities for Bankohio. 
Tom Conley Was given a nice welcome by the rival coaches over WTAM a few weeks ago. 
Gene Oberst has his family moved into town now, and Tom and Gene will wind up spring practice this Fri­day at John Carroll TJ. 
Joe Gavin is, as this is written, in the throes of turning out a fine baseball team at Holy Name. Won 3, lost 2. 
Chuck Rohr has stored his oyster bar for the summer. 
Ed Ryan is a contact man for the Columbia Refining Company. 
Dick O'Toole is continuing the study of medicine here. 
Billy Sullivan is making the fans sit up and take notice at the ball park. At this writing, Billy has displayed the Indians regular catcher, and has the job all to himself. Re­cently Billy broke up a 15-inning ball game, cracking out a triple and later scoring. 
A note of regret: John Penote's father died suddenly. Larry Krai. 
Father John O'Hara, president of the University, and Paul Mallon, noted news commentator, were guests of the club at a dinner in the Cleve­land Athletic Club on June 12. Tom Byrne was the chairman in charge, assisted by John Butler, Frank Cull, Tom Conley, Clayt Leroux, John Ma­tonsek, Jerry Reidy, Chuck Rohr, Jim Uprichard, and Tom Yarr. 
Father O'Hara was in Cleveland for the Sisters' College graduation ceremonies and Paul to cover the Re­publican convention. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
Harry J. Decgan, ex. '31. 100 Francis Ave., Hartford. Conn.. President: John M. Cianci, '29, 500 Allen St, New Britain. Conn., Secretary. 

The annual celebration of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night was con­ducted in the Hotel Bond by 50 alumni from the Connecticut Valley Notre Dame Club. 
Rev. Patrick J. Quinlan of St. Thomas' Seminary i n Bloomfield, club chaplain, was one of the prin­cipal speakers. Other speakers were: Francis T. Ahem, assistant city edi­tor of the Hartford Times, Harry Deegan and William C. Hurley. 
The committee in charge of the Hartford gathering was: Francii B. Laraia, chairman; Thomas B. Curry, George Erwin of New Britain and Timothy Murphy. 
Harry J. Deegan was elected pres­ident of the Connecticut Valley Club at the Bond Hotel, Hartford, on 
April 27. 
Thomas B. Curry, Hartford at­torney, was named honorary presi­dent. Other officers include the Rev. Patrick T. Quinlan, St. Thomas Sem­inary, chaplain; William A. Hurley of Springfield, vice-president; James 
J. Murphy, Middletown, vice- presi­dent; John M. Cianci, New Britain, secretary; Francis B. Laraia, Hart­ford, treasurer. 
Thomas E. Ferguson, Thompson-ville, who served two terms in the presidency, presided. The new ad­ministration began a discussion of plans for the year. 
Father Quinlan, chaplain of the club, has been appointed by Bishop McAuliffe, of Hartford, to lead the 1936 Hartford pilgrimage to Europe. 
Tim Muryhy, formerly of Bridge­port, is now residing in Hartford. 
Adam Walsh, Bowdoin head coach, and his new assistant, Dinny Shay, recently attended a Bowdoin dinner-meeting in Hartford. 
June, 1936 
DALLAS 
Juoei P. Swift. 'Z4, 1202 Sonthweatem Life Bldg.. Dallas. President Francis A. McCnIlough, '30. 917 First NaUonal Bank BIdK.. Dallas, Secretary. 

The members of the Dallas Notre Dame Club attended a dinner and business meeting held at the Hilton Hotel on Universal Notre Dame Night. Practically the entire mem­bership -was in attendance. A radio was installed in the dining room and the members enjoyed the very excel­lent Universal Notre Dame Night program. The members, led by James 
P. Swift, the club president, dis­cussed plans for future meetings and indulged in the always-popular and very pleasant pastime of reminiscing about happy days and times at Notre Dame. 
Frank A. McCullough. 

DAYTON 
Euffene Mayl, *24. 400 Irving Ave.. Presi­dent Wiinnm Cronin. '29. 418 Grafton Ave., Secretary. 

DENVER 
Robert Dick, '29, 930 Grant St. President Harry Lawrence, '29, 1951 Lawrence St. Secretary. 

DES MOINES 
Harrj- O'B-iylc. '27. 2801 Grand Ave.. Pres­ident; Wchnrd Hyde. '35, 678 2Gth St, Secretary. 

Monday, April 20, we had a get-together in honor of Universal Notre Dame Night. After listening to the broadcast, a business meeting was held, new officers were installed and plans were made for the annual ban­quet in honor of the Notre Dame track team and visiting coaches who make a yearly pilgrimage to the Drake Relays. 
The new officers are Harry O'Boyle, president; John Stark, vice-president; and Richard Hyde, secretary. Pres­ent at the meeting were Jim Shaw, 
Dick Hyde, Harry O'Boyle, Harold Neu, Vic Becker, Marc Wonderlin, John Hynes, John Stark, Carleton Beh, Emmett Barron, Jim Barrett, Harold Pohlmeyer, Harold Klein and Herb Volker. 
I understand that John Manley, '32, who, for the past year has been working with the HOLC in this city, has left that organization and is now practicing law in Dubuque. A new­comer in our midst is Bill Robinson, formerly of Stuart, Iowa, who is now working for the Equitable Life of Iowa. 
Harry O'Boyle gave the interview you sent out shortly before the Na-. tional Notre Dame program. The interview was broadcast over Station KSO and the two programs tied to­gether very nicely. 
We held the dinner after the finals of the relays. There were about 50 present. The guests included the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
track team. Coach Nicholson, Mon­signor Boylan, and the Bishop of Des Moines, Most Rev. Gerald T. Bergan. Coach Nicholson, Monsignor Boylan and Bishop Bergan were the speakers of the evening. You no doubt know that the track team made a very fine showing in the relays. In fact, it was the best showing in several years. 
That is about all the glad tidings, 

Jim, and I must now tell of a very 
sad death. Mrs. Carleton D. Beh 
passed away after a several weeks' 
illness. Mr. Beh, '17, is one of Notre 
Dame's most prominent alumni in 
this city. I am sure all of his many 
friends join us in extending our sin­
cere sympathy. 
Dick Hyde. 

DETROIT 
Joseph J. Norton. '24, 1025 Forest Ave.. President: Edward R. McMahon. ex. '30. 2291 LaMotte Ave., Secretary. 

On last May 9 we sponsored a Millionaires' Party. Howard Beech­inor was chairman of the arrange­ments and he and the other members of his committee, including Gil Shaefer, Leo Mclnerney, Malcolm Knaus, Jack Higgins and Jack Breen, did a wonderful job. 
We held our regular monthly meeting on Monday night, June 1. Through the courtesy of Mr. Sulli­van, of the Eckhardt and Becker Brewing Company, we were given the facilities of the Tap Room for the evening. The Club members de­cided to sponsor a Communion Sun­day, followed by a joint meeting of the alumni, students from Detroit and prospective students. Our com­mittee for this occasion includes Bob Neydon, George Costello, Gil Shaefer, Ted Feldman, Ed Crowe and Jack Breen, our energetic treasurer who is making a success of a very difficult job. 
Some time after the Communion Sunday and meeting we plan on ar­ranging a golf tournament and a baseball game. Lowell Comerford, Doctor Harvey Brown and Lou Con­roy are taking over the committee duties for this event. The baseball game will be a challenge meet. Bill Hurley of Saginaw and Joe Friske insisted on the night of the Notre Dame-U. of D. basketball game to Gil Shaefer that they could bring a team from Bay City, Saginaw and Flint which would "trim the ears" off the Notre Dame Club of Detroit. Recently Bill Hurley called Gil re­minding him that our club is still being challenged. We have appointed Gil chairman of the arrangements for this event and one report has it that he has engaged Hank Greenberg of the Tigers as his private tutor. 
We expect to have a large delega­tion of the boys from Detroit at Commencement this year, .\mong 
281 

those whom we know are going are —Jack Biggin*. Al Slagcart, Gaorg* Haller, Bud Boeringer, Gil Sbaafar, Bud Stillmant Clarence Kaisar. Frank McGinnis, Johnny Frederick and Matt Garrlgan. Before it is time for the Detroit caravan to pull out, we hope that some more of the boys will join us. 
Joe Norton. 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA Jamu D. Hayes. *17, 4612 Horsas Drive, Chevy Chase, Ud.. President J. Tbomaa Garver, '32. 1210 Perry St. N.E., Wasb­inirton. D.G.. Secretary. 
* 

DUBUQUE 
C. 1. Krajewski, '16. 321 Bank & Insurance Bids.. President Henry L Trenkle. '24, 180 S. Booth St. Secretary. 

EASTERN INDIANA 
Thomas A. CasnoB. 'S3, 401 Wysor BIdz., Hnncie. Ind.. President Alvla E. Gnmzer, ex. '31, 617 S. Jefferson St. Hartford City, Ind., Secretary. 
* 

EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA Leo R. Hdntyre, '28, Bethlehem. Presi­dent. Ernest L. Wllhelni. '27, Ne» Jer­sey Zinc Co., Research Dept, Pahnerton, 
Secretary. 

This is to let you know that I carried out your assignment and spoke over Station WCBA for 18 minutes, three minutes overtime, on Universal Notre Dame Night. The announcer was an able young man by the name of John Groller. The radio station, through its program director, Mr. George Snyder, gave me whole-hearted cooperation. . . . 
Leo R. Melntyre. 

ERIE. PENNSYIVANIA Richard D. Daley. 'IT. Erie Daily Times, Prerident Thomas Barber, '24, 418 New­man St, Secretary. 
FAIRFIELD COUNTY (Connectieat) James Hnrphy. '22. 611 Security Bldtr.. Bridgeport. Conn» President Joseph S. Russo. '32. 166 Booxh Ave., Bridseport, Conn.. Secretary. 
* ' 

FORT WAYNE, INDIANA Donnelly P. UcDonald. 12. Peoples Trust & SavinKl Co.. President Edward S. Sul­livan. '24. 125 E. Snttenfield St. Seeretaiy. 
GRAND RAPIDS Georse E. Ludwls, '25, 328 Gieabana Ave., If.W.. President Raymond J. Boolal. '27. 607 Atwood. N.E., Secretary. 
GREEN BAY. WISCONSIN Harold L. Lnndo. '24. City Bmrinefrif Of­fice, City Han, Prealdent Lerl A. Ci.nlnsi. '24, 610 Hinahan BIdic.. Secretary. 
GOGEBIC RANGE (Midugan) 
Robert O'Callstban, ex. 'If. Goc^ e Na­
tional Bank. Ironwood. President naad * 
J. Vukovieh, "SS. Bidsc St. Ircmnai, Web.. Secretary. 
HAMILTON. OHIO 
IL O. Buna, '81. S38 S. Seeoad St. Prol. 
dent Maie A. Fiebrer. •27, 701 r " " 
BIdz., Secretary. 
Harrisburs 
{New Club) 
Edward C. Smith. 2G23 N. Second St.. '01. President. John J. McNeill, '33, Chevrolet Motor Co., Secretary. 

When I wrote to you some time previous to Universal Notre Dame Night asking for a list of the men in this vicinity I never thought the Notre Dame Club of Harrisburg would become an actuality. 
Working with Joe Farrell and Bob Jobnion we contacted from this area, and with only a short notice, H men were present at the Harrisburger Hotel, Monday night, April 20. One man saw our notice in the local news­paper and dropped in, that fellow be­ing Stephen McPartlin, Jr., '29, who was traveling in this section for the Pennsylvania Refining Company. We received wonderful cooperation from the local newspapers, and conse­quently nice publicitj". 
A radio was installed in the ban­quet room and we all in Harrisburg wish to compliment the University in having a program that was fitting and one that makes all the men away from the school proud to be termed "Men of Notre Dame." 
Those present at the iirst meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Harris­burg were: J. R. Farrell, Camp Hill; Chas. M. Dougherty, Harrisburg; J. 
A. McHugh, Harrisburg; S. E. Mc­Partlin, Butler; E. C. Smith, Harris­burg; W. J. Lutz, Harrisburg; Rob­ert M. Johnston, Harrisburg; R. J. O'Donnell, Pittsburgh; Tom Goss, Harrisburg; Joseph L. Rafter, Har­risburg; Harry P. Breslin, Harris­burg; and J. J. McNeill, Harrisburg. 
A short business meeting was held during which Edward C. Smith, with Joseph R. Farrell, Camp Hill, the vice-president, and the writer the secretarj'-treasurer. During the meeting it was decided to hold reg­ular noon luncheons the first Tuesday of each month. 
Alumni clubs of other universities, especially Pitt Club in this city, have issued invitations to join them in meeting for the purpose of creating good-will among the schools that Notre Dame entertains on its various athletic schedules. 
John J. McNeill. 

HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.) 
Gerald J. Qeary. '21. 310 Lake Shore Dr.. 
Escanaba, Slich., President Edward J. 
Dandon. *22, Iron Mountain, Mich., Secre­
tary. 
* 

HOUSTON 
M. E. Walter. •14. 1708 Stuart Ave., Hous­ton. President. Thomas F. Green Jr., '27, Conroe. Texas, Secretary. 
* 

INDIANAPOLIS 
Charles E. Mason. '26, Indiana Bell Tele­
phone Co., President. Franlc P. McCarthy, 
•28, 819 N Gray St, Secretary. 

JACKSON. MICHIGAN Lester Wisda, '31, 1016 E. Ganson St., President. Lyman Hill. '29, 224 S. Mech­anic St., Secretary. 
JOLIET, ILLINOIS Robert Baskcr\iIIe, '31. 104 Younsrs Ave.. President. Clarence Wilhelmi, '18, 909 On­eida St., Secretary. 
KANSAS Albert J. Gebert, 'SO. II. of •Wichita. Wich­ita. Kansas. President Dan Welchons, 'SO, 623 Elm St, Ottawa. Kansas, Secretary. 
KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) 
Eobert Tyler, '29. 8616 Pasco Blvd., Kan­sas City, Mo., President Charles B. Meyer, '29, 420 E. Armour Blvd.. Kansas City. Mo.. Secretary. 

About 50 alumni gathered at En­gleman's to celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night. We were happy to have with us Gus Dieter, '29, and Bob Brackel, '29, from Joplin, Missouri, and Joe O'Bryan, '29, from Hepler, Kansas. Governor Dugan gave a real Notre Dame pep talk over one of Kansas City's largest stations, KWKC. Joe O'Dowd and Henry Massman report that John's talk came in fine for a N. D. party at Ft. Peck, Montana. Dr. Kevin Curran, Mort Carey, George Reinhardt, Doc­tor Nigro, Heinie Burdick, Fred Wirthman, Frank Tyler, Fred Man­cuso, Eddie McGrath, John O'Con­nor, J. Pendergast, Bill Mahoney, Billy McCarthy, and Jack Frye were among those present. We hope to get the fellows together for a good picnic sometime during the summer. Jack Frey, '29, was in Kansas City last month for a few days and saw some of the boys he hadn't seen since graduation. 
Charley Meyer. 
* 

KENTUCKY 
Raymond Pfeiffer. '32. 3032 LexinEton Rd.. Louisville. President. John B. Ratterman, Jr.. ct. '32. 2114 Vr. Market St, Louisville, Sccretarj*. 

An attempt to revive the hitherto somnolent Notre Dame Club of Ken­tucky was conceived at a well attend­ed meeting of N. D. men on Univers­al Notre Dame night. This meeting was the first one in many months. An informal discussion of future pos­sibilities of the club and an election of officers were the chief points of the meeting. 
Gene Steurle, retiring president, presided up to the election of officers. The new officers are: 
President, Ray Pfeiffer, '32; vice-president, Russell Leonard, '34; vice-president, Paul J. Flem>ng,'26; treas­urer, Marion Hefferman, '28; secre­tary, John B. Ratterman, Jr. eX. '32. All the above are residents of Louis­ville. 
These new officers met in Ray Pfeiffer's home and discussed plans to make the most of this opportunity to reestablish the club in its former 
position among the leading clubs of Louisville. John B. Ratterman, Jr. 
LAPORTE. INDIANA 
aaienee Bunce, '26, 613 Ridse St, Pred­dent Stephen Shapley. 'SO, Goodyear Tire Co., Secretary. 

LOS ANGELES Thomas Heam, '15, II20 Pacific Finanoe Bids., President Douglas Daley, '30, 781 Ceres Ave., Secretary. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
P. K. Burke. '88, 307 Camp St. New Or­leans, La., President Cyprian A. Sport, Jr., '28, Whitney-Central BIdz., New Or­leans, La., Secretary. 

MANILA 
. Eduardo Roxas, 'S3, 719 Echague. Manila, President. Leopoldo Brias, Manila, Sec­retary. 
* 

MEMPHIS Stnria Canale. '35, 620 S. Belvidere, Presi­dent lavin McNIchoIas. '35, 591 N. Trese­vant St, Secretary. 
MIAMI, FLORIDA 
Vincent C. Giblin, '18, 4103 Collins Ave.. Miami Beach, President Daniel J. Lino, ct. '34. 1617 N. W. Ninth Ave.. Miami. Secretary. 

MILWAUKEE 
Joseph Griffin, '28, 210 E. Michisan St. President Jean LaBouIe. '29. 524 B. Mason St , Secretary. 

MONTANA 
William B. Jones. '28, 411 Power Bldft.. Helena, President. Rev. John Rcpran. '24, Bishop's House, Great Falls, Secretary. 

This year we met on U. N. D. Night in Butte, Montana, at the Fin­len Hotel. Dr. R. C. Monahan, the club president, and his able commit­tee arranged for a splendid dinner meeting which we all enjoyed. 
Upon our arrival at the hotel. Chairman Hugh O'Keefe of the "sil­ver tea committee" ushered us into a large room where one could work his elbow without striking a neighbor or knocking one of the "tea cups" out of the neighbor's hand. After some time of this form of entertainment we retired to the banquet room where a splendid meal had been prepared for us. We attempted to get the radio program but there was too much static. With much home-town pride and Chamber of Commerce at­titude the Butte members assured us that the static was caused by the wealthy deposits of ore on the Butte hill. We took their information for what it was worth and decided that it was Tom Golden's inability to work the radio. Anyhow, we did not hear the Universal Notre Dame Night pro­gram, which we all regretted. 
After the meal was over, the pro­gram began. Hugh O'Keefe's wife, a most delightful and charming young lady, and a Notre Dame man ivzth theatrical talent, Charlie Slati, enter­tained us with songs. After this Pres­ident Monshan, who, by the way, is the all time handball champion of the State of Montana, opened the speak­ing program by expressing some very beautiful thoughts about Notre Dame and what it meant 'to all of us. Father Scheidler, also of Butte and our club chaplain, spoke most touch­ingly on "the youth of Notre Dame." I can assure you that this was a most beautiful talk and inspired and im­pressed us all. 
Honorable Albert J. Galen, first vice-president of the Alumni Associ­ation, delivered one of his usual fine addresses, which all of us in Mon­tana enjoy immensely. Judge Galen is certainly an enthusiastic Notre Dame man and his stories of early Notre Dame life, in the days when he was there, are always most enter­taining. [Ed's note: Judge Galen's tragic death occurred shortly after­wards.] 
Father John Regan, chancellor of 
the Great Falls diocese, also spoke to 
us and what he said we all enjoyed 
most heartily. Other speakers includ­
ed Turk Oa»» and Walter Yund, two 
of Rock's team mates. Earl W. 
Brown, a past president of the Notre 
Dame Club of Montana, J. B. Sher­
lock, who was one of the organizers 
of the Notre Dame Council of the 
Knights of Columbus, Charlie SUtt. 
of whom I have spoken, and myself. 
It was decided at this meeting to 
have Masses said for the repose of 
the souls of Bishop Finnigan, Rock 
and the deceased alumni. 
The new officers elected at this meeting for the year 1936-1937 are: William B. Jones, 412 Power Build­ing, Helena, Montana, president; Al­bert J. Galen, 435 Clark Street, Helena, Montana, vice-president; Rev. John Regan, Bishop's House, Great Falls, Montana, secretarj^-treasurer; Rev. Russell Scheidler, Immaculate Conception Parish, Butte, Montana, chaplain. 
There were about 25 members present at this dinner meeting and all stated that it was one of the best that we have ever had. Next year we hope to meet in Great Falls, as we feel that by moving around to the various towns in Montana it will enthuse more of our alumni. 
This will be my last communica­tion to you as secretary, as in the future you can get in touch with Father Regan of Great Falls. 
We want to thank the Notre Dame Alumni Association for providing this Universal Notre Dame Night. We can assure you that to us out here so far from Notre Dame it means very much. 
Bill Jones. 

NASHVILLE 
Kobert P. Williams. Jr., "29. lOS Gallatin Hoad, Secretary. 
NEW JERSEY 
Raymond A. Gctcer. '32. 446 Eastern Park­way. IrvinKton, N. J., President. Daniel O'Neill. '2S. 184 N. Walnut St.. East Oranjre. N .1.. Secretary. 
The May meeting of the Notre Dame alumni of New Jersey was held on Monday, May 4 and, as this was the election night for new officers, a large crowd attended. 
Ed Kirby gave a report of the Spring Dance committee and an­nounced that the dance would be held in conjunction with the campus club at the Essex County Counti-y Club, on June 19, with the Princetonions giving out the music. Bids were dis­tributed and a final appeal for sup­port was made to the members of the alumni. 
Eddie Duggan gave a report of the Universal Notre Dame banquet. One hundred and sixtj'-one came out for the aflTair. Credit was extended by Eddie Duggan to Pete Quinn, Bob Phelan and Tom Farrell, who assisted him in his good work. 
Dan O'Neill announced that the re­
treat would be held at Morristo^^•n as 
usual in September. 
Ed Duggan offered a suggestion 
that a central director of publicity 
be appointed so that each and every 
news item of the New Jersey Club 
would find its way into the news­
papers. 
Tom Purcell, the outgoing presi­dent, reviewed the year and an­nounced that he found it impossible at this time to start a scholarship fund. He hoped the coming year will yield greater prosperity to the club. Bob Huetz made a treasury report. 
The question of the Army game ticket distribution by the New Jer­sey Club was up for debate and was tabled until the next meeting. 
Bill Heinle was congratulated for a splendid speech made before a local parish organization upon the reli­gious life at Notre Dame. 
The election of officers then took place with your scribe being elevated to the lofty position of president for the coming year. The officers are as follows: Raymond A. Geiger, presi­dent; Joseph Drinane, vice-president; Philip Heinle, treasurer; Dan O'Neill, secretary. 
Ray Geiger. 

NEW YORK CITY 
J. Norhert Gclson. Jr.. '26. 1201 Troy Ave.. Brooklyn, President Warren S. PoRcl. '30. 70 Wall St.. Secretary. 
* 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Mark G. Kreutzer, '24, 311 California St., 
San Francisco, Calif., President. Elmer 
Wynne. '28. c-o E. S. Townsend Co.. 15th 
Fl., }tuss Bldjr.. San Francisco. Secretary. 
OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A. Varan, *32, 1611 S. Carson, Tdi­sa. President Marion J. Blake. '33. Na­tional Bank of Tnlsa Bids.. Tnlsa, Secre­tary. 
In observance—a bit in advance— of Universal Notre Dame Night we had a club dinner in the French Room of the Mayo Hotel on April 18. We had 25 present, and of that num­ber five drove in from Oklahoma City and two from Enid. 
At the meeting I was again given the doubtful distinction of being president, and Marion Blake was handed the secretaryship. 
Monday night, the 20th, we had 15 minutes over KVOO. The pro­gram was made up of the skit re­garding the Ohio State game, about three minutes of my verbiage, and two or three of the school songs. Hillis Bell acted as announcer and program director, and we owe him a lot for his time and trouble. 
The wisdom of your compiling an attorneys' directory has already been proven by the fact that we received a matter by way of the directory. 
If there is anything further that I can do in this part of the country, I shall be glad to do it. 
Joseph A. Moran, 

OREGON Samuel M. Dolan, '10, 4726 N. E. Alameda Drive. Portland. President. J. Ron SuSi­van, '30, 611 Board of Trade Bld;r.. Port­land. Secretary. 
PARIS Louis P. Harl. "16. Paris OSce. New York Herald-Tribnne. Paris, France. President. 
PEORIA Bradley Prcscott. ex. '31. President. AI Gurj-. Jr.. '28, 612 Albany Ave., Secretary-
PHILADELPHIA Walter Eidtcy. "31, 6824 N. 18th St., Pres­ident. A. J. Wackerman. '33, 5356 Chew St,, Secretary. 
The main feature of my write-up this month is a belated report on the activities of the club on Universal Notre Dame night. Over 50 attended a dinner at the Philopatrians Club. Present was John H. Neeson, who was largely responsible for the insti­tution of the observance of a Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. Speakers included Thomas A. Logue, Secretary of Internal Affairs of the Common­wealth of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Har­ry Boyd Brown, Merchandising Man­ager of the Philco Radio Corporation of Philadelphia, who was introduced by Bill Castellini. Music and enter­tainment accompanied a well-planned meal and the evening ended after the reception by radio of the Notre Dame banquet in Washington. 
The club is losing three of its best-known members, with Harry StaU­dreher and Bob Reagan taking coach­
ing jobs at the University of Wiscon­sin, and Gene Oberst coaching at John Carroll in Cleveland with Tom Conley. 
Bill Cooney, '32, is seen learing the 

meetings early since his recent mar­
riage to Miss Katherine Loesch. 
We wish everyone to pray for the 

repose of the soul of Charley McKin­
ney'i mother who was recently killed 
in an automobile accident. 
Father Julius Nieuwland visited our fair city to receive the Mendel Award in Chemistry from Villanova College. 
At our last meeting we discussed the possibility of holding a picnic during the summer. This would give the relatives and friends of the mem­bers a chance to become acquainted. 
Some of our club members are re­

turning to the campus for the June 
reunion. As usual John H. Neeson 
will make the trip as well as Walt 
Ridley, '31, president of the club, 
who is celebrating his five-year re­
union. 
Adrian J. Wackerman. 

ROCHESTER, (New York) peter J. Connelly. •3.'!. 994 K. Gwjdman 
St.. Preaident: Fmnk Norton. '32. 80 Beck-
with Terrace. Secretary. 

ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) Paul J. Fry, '27. 210 W. Third St. Dbcon. 
niimis. President. Gerald Jones. '22, 105 
E. Second St., Dixon, Illinois, Secretary. 

About 30 members of our club were in attendance at a dinner and meeting held here in Dixon on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. Members from Rockford, Sterling, Rochelle, Amboy, Preeport and Dixon were present. The evening program con­sisted of a veiy fine dinner, program of after-dinner talks by different ones of our members, listening to the Notre Dame coast-to-coast broadcast and then chin-wagging. All of the members seemed to enjoy the oppor­tunity to get together and talk over Notre Dame, its past, present and future. Our annual club picnic will be held during June and we always have a good turn-out for that event. 
The present officers of the club are Paul J. Fry, '27, Dixon, Illinois, pres­ident; Robert Doran, '26, 328 South Rrst Street, Rockford, Illinois, vice-president; Gerald Jones, Dixon, Illi­nois, secretary-treasurer. 
All of the members of our club seem to be greatly interested in Harry Stuhldreher's appointment at Wisconsin, inasmuch as it is close to home. We are all pulling for him and hope that he is eminently suc­cessful, except when his teams meet Notre Dame. We are also looHng forward to next Pall and I believe that nearly all of the members are 
planning on seeing the Ohio game. Jerry Jones. 
SAN ANTONIO 
Wnilam V. Dielmimn. Jr.. '25, 107 Thd­
ma Drive, President. Edward G. Gonroy, 
'30. 204 E. Craig PI., Secretary. 
* 

SIOUX CITY, IOWA 
Vincent F. Harrington, '25, Continental 
Mortsage Co., President. 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
Rudolph Kelly. e--c. '17, 909 S. Park Ave.. 
President. Paul D. McConnell. '32. Secre­
tary. 

The Springfield, Illinois, Notre Dame Club held its annual consti­tutional meeting for election of offi­cers in March, and the following were elected: James Quinn, '97, hon­orable president; Rudolf Kelly, '17, president; Charles Corcoran, '17, vice-president, and Paul D. McCon­nell, '32, secretary-treasurer. 
An informal get-together was held April 20, in observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Mother's Day was observed by the Club •n'ith Mass and Communion at the Cathedral, followed by break­fast in the Sun Room of the Leland Hotel. 
Officers of the year have many plans for this year, and express the hope of a successful year. 
Paul D. McConnell. 

ST. LOUIS Robert HellrunK. '30, 306 N. Grand Blvd.. 
President: David J. Reillcy, Jr.. '30. IHB 
Louisville Ave.. Secretary. 

With Elmer Layden as the major attraction the Notre Dame dub of St. Louis did itself proud Tuesday, May 26, at one of the greatest af­fairs' ever sponsored by the club. It was a banquet tendered as a testi­monial to the coach and it attracted Notre Dame men not only from St. Louis but from outlying communities. 
It was a busy day for Elmer and the genial alumni secretary, Jim Armstrong. They were engaged from the time of their arrival until they had to make a grand rush for their train at midnight. Met by a commit­tee composed of President Robert F. Hellrung, Joe McGiynn, John Igoe and others they were first ushered out to Washington University where Coaches Layden and Jimmy Conzel­man held a weeping spree over next year's prospects. 
This over, a luncheon was enjoyed at the Mayfair hotel at which only Notre Dame men attended and where the coach seriously discussed next fall's football prospects and gave the older members a word picture of the Notre Dame campus and its numer­ous new buildings. 
In the afternoon Layden and Arm­strong were taken out to the Nation­al league ball park and saw Dizzy Dean hurl a victorious game. 

The banquet was scheduled for 7 o'clock in the Chase hotel Crystal room. The committee in charge which included the officers and trus­tees had made arrangements for 200 persons, but so great was the last minute rush for tickets that almost 300 persons were in attendance. 
Joe McGlynn was toastmaster. Speakers included representatives of Washington and St. Louis universi­ties and the principal speeches were by Mayor B. F. Dickmann, Layden and Coach Conzelman, whose team plays at Notre Dame this Pall. After some good natured "ribbing" by the two coaches pictures of the Notre Dame-Ohio State football game were shown with comment by Coach Lay­den. 
The club greatly appreciates the visit from Elmer and Jim and hope they may find time in the near fu­ture to be our guests again. 
If you see Galitz Farabaugh, 

Ralph Feig or Bob Proctor tell them 
hello for me. 
Jack Sheehan, '07. 
St. Louis Globe-Democrat. 

SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) Thomas F. Van Aarle, '21. Standard Oil 
Co.. Saginaw. Mich.. President. William 
C. Hurley, '25, 117 Cherry St, Saginaw, 
Mich.. Secretary. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) Louis F. Buckley, '28, 718 E. Corby Blvd., 
South Bend. Ind.. President Clarence Har­
dinff, '25, South Bend Tribune, South Bend, 
Ind., Secretary. 

The first event of the month was the second annual Golf Blow-Out, held this year at Chain - o' - Lakes Country (Hub on Thursday, May 14. Well over a hundred golfers (and members who thought they were, but couldn't make anyone else believe it by the scores they turned in) played the course. The dinner afterward in the club house, was attended by everyone who played golf in the afternoon plus those who couldn't make the golf but got out in time for some of the locker-room fes­tivities. Elmer Layden did a swell job general chairmaning the affair and bad the capable assistance of Louie Buckley, president of our club, and Herb Jone*. 
Chick Bader of Gary, Won low gross honors. 
Second low gross honors were taken by Harold Casey with an 84, while Jim Britt came in third in this division with 85. 
Noble Kizer, athletic director and football coach at Purdue university, won the prize for taking the most 
strokes on one hole, 16 on the 12th hole. Jim Connolly took honors for high gross with a score of 153. The runner-up to Connolly was Jim Mc­Cabe who. slugged his way over 6,000 yards in 141 blows. Third high gross went to E. L. Lowitz with 124. 
Two prizes were awarded the Old Timers, a pair of shoes going to Mai Edwardi, of Purdue, and an umbrella to Tom Hicbey. 
The faculty division prizes were won by Stanley Price, who was low, and Dave Campbell who was high. 
B. J. Voll and Edward Meehan each received awards for superior con­duct in the locker rooms. 
A door prize was awarded to Francis Jones. Bill Sheehan, who coached George Keogan to a record score of 119, assisted Mr. Layden in making the awards. Many impromp­tu speeches were made during the course of the dinner with AI McGann acting as assistant toastmaster. 
The scores turned in by the con­testants follow: 
Chick Badcr -39.40— 79 Harold Casey -42-12— 84 Jim Britt —43-12- 85 Mai Ehrard -44-12- 86 Joe Kovach -47-39- 86 H. Hill -43-46— 89 John Voedisch -44-46— 90 Elmer Lnydcn -45-48- 93 Al McGann 
-47-46— 93 

-49-45— 9i Otto PfafI G. A. Farabaugh . 
-49-46— 95 Dan McNamarn — 
_47-BD— 97 
-47-50— 97 J. McCnfTery -48-19— 97 F. Lloyd ...49-19- 98 Ed Hcaly -48-51- 99 William Voor ...49-51—100 J. Arthur Haley . 

-48-32-100 

J. W. Kaufy -52-19—102 Stanley Prict; -53-19—102 Joo Donahue ..50-.52—102 Willard Fortier _.. -.50-53—103 
Bill Coyne 
-54-19-103 

Aaron Huguenard .51-53—104 Tom KinfT Steve Ronay Jack Lcdden T. Chizek -50-55—105 R. Bondumnt ...53-52-105 Noble Kizer -56-50—106 R. WaKPoner -56-30—106 Mike Kelly ..55-34—109 Bill Shceb.ln -49-60—109 Joe Boland -60-50-110 Jim Ash 
..59-52-111 Bill Cemey -52-60-112 
-58-54-112 Herbert Jones 
J. W. Mclnemy 
-56-56—112 Al Foley 
-58-54-112 -58-55-113 -59-54-113 

L. T. Flntley 
Ixiuis Chaplcau -57-56—113 Clarence Hardinff -62-55—117 T. I.. Hickey -58-60—118 John McCarthy — -61-58—119 Georjre Keocan 
-59-62-121 

Dave Campbell -60-64—124 Frank Miles -G4-60—124 E. L. Lowitz 
-74-67-141 

Jim McCabc .80-73—153 Jim Connolly 
The second event in the month of May's calendar was the Cabaret Dance at Melody Gardens on Wed­nesday evening. May 27. This affair, which was highly successful, was under the general chairmanship of William J. Furey. Glenn Stone and his orchestra played for dancing for more than 100 couples. Reservations for tables were made by many club members and large groups attended. Many entertained informally in their homes before coming to the dance. 
A colored dance team won favor with the crowd. Mrs. Louis Chapleaa won the door prize of two tickets to the Ohio State game next Fall. 
The club has an ambitious sched­ule for the future, particularly dur­ing football season next Fall, when the pre-game smokers will undoubt­edly be resumed. 
Clarence Harding. 

SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
Harry J. Corcoran, '27, 82 Port Watson St., Cortland, N. Y., President. Donald J. Sheehy, '33, 104 Glahn Ave.. Syracuse, Secretary. 
The Syracuse and Central New York Club held a dinner on Universal Notre Dame Night. With the co­operation of the two local broad­casting stations, WFBL and WSYR, the many loyal fans in this vicinity were able to hear the main speaker of the evening, William E. Byrne, He spoke on "College Life at Notre Dame." 
The officers for the coming year were elected: president, Harry J. Corcoran, '27; secretarv, Donald J. Sheehy, '33. 
The meeting was attended by: 
' Leo Kelley, James Huxford, Jacob 
E. Eckel, William F. Sullivan, George Kinney, E. C. Schonlau, William E. Byrne, Harry J. Corcoran, Fred T. DeLany, Vincent J. Brown, James Bannigan, and Donald J. Sheehy. 
D. J. Sheehy. 

TIFFIN, OHIO 
0. J. Schmidt. '11. 260 Melmore St., Pres­ident. Fred J. Wasncr, '29, 152 Sycamore St.. Secretary. 
TOLEDO 
Norbert Scharf. '26, Toledo Edison Co., President. Joseph L. Wetli. '31, 717 Starr Ave., Secretary. 
TRI-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) 
Georse Uhlmeyer, '23. Peoples' Power Co., Davenport, la.. President. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
Joseph Hunt, Binshamton, President. Wil­liam Yeager, '34, 18 Vine St, Binghamton. Secretary. 
TWIN CITIES (Minnesota} 
John D. Yelland, '30, 3221 Holmes Ave.. So., Minneapolis, President: Joseph R. Sehroeder, '31, 219 Fremont Ave.. N., Minneapolis, Secretary. 
UTAH 
Raymond H. Brady, '24. 208 Keams Bids., Salt lake City, President Cyril Haibeske. •19. 64 F. St, Salt Lake City, Secretary. 
UTICA, NEW YORK Dr. J<*n r. KelkT. *% Peopks: Gm * 
Electric Bldr.. Fioidait. Joasph W. N ­
len. 'SI. ICn Kdlson St.. Scentaiy. 

WABASH VALLEY. (Ia£aM) Paul Kennedr. '24, Tsmpletaa. Indtw. 
President Enmwtt FerzoaoB. tt, WaDaee 
BuildinK, Lafsyette. Indiana, SsentaiT. 

WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT 
John Robinsoo. '28, S2 Fmninxton Ave;. President. James M. Monashan, Tl, 44 Ayer St. SeeietaiT. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Joseph Bach, '26, Fort Pitt Hotd. Presi­dent William Hagarral), '32, 1439 Frank­lin Ave.. Wilkinsburg, Secretary. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 
John J. Dempsex. '9B. Danpsej Lumber Co., Taccma. President. Robert L Pisolt. '32, 925 I2th Ave., M.. Seattle. Secretary. 
WHEELING. WEST VIRGINU 
Thomas F. Howley, '11. Citlsens-Feosles Trust Co.. WhseUas, Fnaident Geoice Sargus, '28. 2111 Belmont BeOaire. ObSo, 
Secretary. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Horan, '29, 1348 Qoinn. Presidoit. Charles Cushwa, '31. 463 Madera Av e Secretary. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Sister II. Frederick. &&&. S t Hair's Colese, Notre Dame. Ind.. President Sis­ter M. Aniellce, B.TJI.. Seeretaiy. 
LAWYERS 

The following list of practicing lawyers is for addition to the Law Directory: 
Dennison, Iowa Brannon, Robert K., A.B., '30. 31G W. Broadway. 
El Paso, Texas Momsen, E.F. Ph. B. Com. '25, J. D., '28 Norcamp & Momsen 1501 Magoffin Ave. (res.) 
VOGT RECEIVES FACULTY AWARD 
Richard R. Vogt, B.S., '15, M.S., '16, Ph.D., '20, assistant professor of chemistry, associated with the late Father Julius A. Nieuwland in many of the latter's most important experi­ments, was the recipient of the Lay Faculty Award of $500 at the Com­mencement on June 7. The award is given annually by the Alumni As­sociation to a lay member of the fac­ulty in recognition of outstanding service in behalf of the University. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus June. 1936 
» »

THE ALUMNI 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Euth P. Bixler and Otty J. Cerney, '34, of Cleveland, Ohio. 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Lucette 
Bastien and Paul H. Latramboise, '34. 
MARRIAGES 
INTRA-MURAL WEDDING 

The various departmental editors— sports, campus, society, etc., hawng hung in suspense, the final decision calls for a story in a class by itself. 
Saturday, June 13, 1936, in St. Patrick's Church, South Bend, Miss Mary Cass, whom the society editors described as "the attractive bride . . gown of pastel blue lace with hat to match," etc., became the wife of Martin Robert Cahill, Ph.B. Com. '34, who was not dressed in the conven­tional black. Vincent Reishman, '35, of the West Virginia Reishmans, re­sumed shoes to serve as best man for the ceremonies. 
You will remember Miss Cass as the efficient young lady who tries to tell you where the Editor is in con­vincing tones when you come to the Alumni Office. And Mr. Cahill serves in the same capacity for the even more elusive Mr. Elmer P. Layden. Can you imagine these l^vo talented young people explaining to each other where they have been when they come home late? 
Fortunately, the juxtaposition of the Athletic and Alumni Associations has made it possible to retain Mrs. Cahill as a part of the Alumni Office staif until her unique and distinctive filing system' can be decoded "for the Office at large.. 
Mr. Cahill, late of the Dixon, Hli­nois, Cahills, is well known in both the Eock and the St. Joseph River Valleys—or was. 
Those alumni who have secured prompt and courteous service from either the Athletic or the Alumni Offices, should undoubtedly wish these unsung heroes happiness, as we do, who know the answers. 
2kGss Helen Isabel Barham and Dr. 
F. Jennings Vurpillat, '20, were mar­ried June 6, at St. Patrick's Church, South Bend, Indiana. 
Miss Helen K. Carson and Thomas 
E. Ferguson, '26, were married June 4, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Prospera Wendell and Gerald Ludwig, '28, were married June 10, in Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
Miss Julia Regina McGrath and John F. Robinson, '28, were married June 1, in Waterburj', Conn. 
Miss Helen Sullivan and John J. Reager, '29, were married May 30, in South Amboy, N. J. 
Miss Catherine G. Pettit and Law­rence A. Carton, Jr., '29, were mar­ried May 30, in Long Branch, N. J. 
Miss Lucille Erwin and Marshall Kizer, '30, were married May 9, in Plymouth, Ind. 
Miss Palmira Snow and AI Kolski, '31, were married June 6, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Helen Irene Gast and George 
A. Jackoboice, '31, were married June 17, in St. Marj''s Church, Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
Miss Harriet Marie Childs and Noel Gies, '31, were married May 9, in Great Pails, Mont. 
Miss Gertrude McCarthy and My­ron Murphy, '31, were maiTied May 16, in Davenport, Iowa. 
Miss Rose Mary Glodich and Ed­ward W. Kopek, '31, were married May 23, in Detroit, Mich. 
Miss Margaret Jones and Edward 
J. Murray, Jr., '32, were married May 23, in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
Miss Mary Jean Swinsick and Jo­seph Bean, '33, were married May 16, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Frances Geppert and Michael Delay, '33, were married June 8, in Beresford, South Dakota. 
Miss Ruth Heston and George Orr, ex. '34, were married June 6, in St. Joseph's Church, South Bend. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth McGuirk and James R. Ross, Jr., '34, were married June 4, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Mary Herman and James T. Gartland, '34, were married May 20, in St. Joseph's Church, South Bend. 
Miss Dorothy Ahrbeck and Dom­inic M. Vairo, '35, were married May 16, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Vemamae Martin and Dr. Lynn S. Vance, ex. '28, were married June 13, in Kokomo, Indiana. 
Miss Edna Bamett and Francis Henningfeld, '33, were married June 13, in St. Patrick's Church, South Bend. 
Miss Sarah J. Trevor and Jerome 
L. Meservey, '33, were married June 13, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Dorothy T. Schaffer and Mel­vin See, '35, were married June 13, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Mona Schleicher and Earl F. Frarey, '36, were married June 13, in South Bend. 
Miss Bemice Canaday and Maury 
G. Fadell, ex. '29, were married June 19, at Gary, Indiana. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur J. Diedrich, '23, announce the birth of a son, on May 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Weber, ex. '28, announce the birth of a son, William Joseph, May 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Wurzer, '25, announce the birth of a son. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas *A. Farrell, '26, announce the birth of a son, Thomas A., Jr., May 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Pietrowicz, '26, announce the birth of a son, Ste­phen, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Boland, '27, announce the birth of a son, Jo­seph M., Jr., May 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul A. Bertsch, '29, announce the birth of a daughter, May 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Brannon, 
'30, announce the birth of a son, Robert K., Jr., March 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. John J. O'Brien, '31, announce the birth of a daughter, on May 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Mullins, '31, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Maiy Ellen, April 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. Neil C. Hurley, Jr., '32, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Maiy Ruth, April 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Spahr, '30, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Margaret Louise, on Holy Thurs­day, April 9. 
DEATHS 
Notre Dame suffered a deep loss when, in late May, Judge Albert J. Galen, '96, 60 years old, first vice-president of the Alumni Association in 1935-36, former attorney-general of Montana and former associate justice of the Supreme Court of Montana, died by drowning near his home in Helena. 
The exact cause of the tragedy 
•will, unfortunately, never he kno^vn. Judge Galen had set out alone in a motor boat in the evening to cross a lake 90 feet deep. Later the boat was found overturned, its motor si­lent and the Judge's hat was discov­ered where it had washed ashore. The assumption of the family was that, in trjing to crank a stalled motor, the Judge had overturned the frail boat and had drowned in the exceedingly cold water before he could gain support for his body. 
Judge Galen was bom on a ranch near "Three Porks, Montana, in 1876 and was graduated from Notre Dame in 1896 with an LL.B. degree. En­tering law practice in Montana, the young attorney was elected attorney general of Montana in 1905 and ser\'ed tn'o terms. He also served on the Montana Capitol commission until the new building was completed in 1912. 
When the United States entered the World War, Judge Galen volun­teered for service and was sent to Siberia, where he became judge-ad­vocate of the A.E.P., sen-ing with such distinction that he was later awarded the Distinguished Service Cross. Promoted to lieutenant-col­inel, he was discharged in July, 1919, returned to Helena and was almost immediately elected an associate .ius­tice of the Montana Supreme Court. 
In that position he served with out­standing distinction until 1932. He was a candidate for LTnited States senator in 1930 on the Republican ticket, but was defeated by the later Senator Thomas J. Walsh. At the time of his death Judge Galen was enffaged in the private practice of Inw in Helena. 
An outstanding and enthusiastic Notre Dame man through all the vears since his graduation. Judge Galen was one of the principal speakers at the dinner of the Notre Dame Club of Montana on Univer­sal Notre Dame Night and one of the most active club members. William 
B. -Tones, president of the Montana Club, officially represented the Uni­versitv at the funeral. Messages of condolence were sent by Father John 
F. O'Hara, president of the Univer­sity, and by the Alumni Association. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to: Gerald, '29, Jerome, '33, and Thomai, '34, Roach, upon the death of their father; Carleton Beh, '17, upon the death of his wife, James Wheeler, ex. '20, upon the death of his mother; Edward T. Din­neen, '24, and John J. Dinneen, ex. '31, upon the death of their father; Gerald Timmins, '26, upon the death of his father. 
Michael F. Hennebry, '96, of Wil­mington, a veteran member of the House of Representatives in Illinois, died suddenly on May 12 in St. Jo­seph's health resort, Wedron, Illinois, whence he had gone to recuperate from a strenuous—but successful— primary campaign. He was 63 years old. 
Mr. Hennebry, an attorney, had represented his district in the House for 14 terms, and was chairman of the House elections committee at the time of his death. He is survived by a brother, Thomas, and a sister, Margaret. 
Through returned ALUIMNUS en­velopes, the Editors learned of the deaths of Patrick J. Houlihan, '92, South Bend, and Y. L. Mott, os. '98, of San Francisco. 
Philip E. Gooley, '17, Syracuse, New York, died on May 7, following an operation from which he had failed to rally. A chemical engineer­ing graduate of Notre Dame, Mr. Gooley ser\-ed in the World War as a first lieutenant in the Air Corps. He was director of WPA professional projects in Syracuse. Surviving are his mother, his wife, tivo sons, two daughters, a sister and a brother. 
Accidentally struck down by a tl-uck, Edward J. Walder, Jr., '33, of Cairo, Illinois, died on May 24, hav­ing lived only a few hours after the tragedy. Word of his death was sent to the AhVMNVS by Russell O'Shea, '35, also of Cairo, one of Ed's closest friends. 
Bob Streb, '32, of Canton, Ohio, very thoughtfully sent along word of the death of Clement Staudt, a stu­dent at Notre Dame in 1900-01, and a football player in that time. Mr. Staudt died from a heart ailment which had kept him in poor health for several years. 
Among the deceased for whom prayers were asked on the Religious Bulletin of June 1 was Paul O'Con­nor, '35, formerly of Springfield, Massachusetts, but more recently of Angola, Indiana. 
A heart attack on May 22 in Bos­ton caused the death of Alexander A. McDonnell, ex. '00, of St. Paul, Min­nesota, a generous friend of the Uni­versity and one of the outstanding Notre Dame men in the Northwest. 
A member of a pioneering lumber­ing and banking family in the North­west, Mr. McDonnell, 53 years old, was associated with the Northern Lumber Company, of Colqnet, Minne­sota, and the Weyerhaeuser Lumber Company, of St. Paul, and was presi­dent of the Lumberman's National Bank, of Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin. 
Surviving Mr. McDonnell are his wife, two sons, Edward A. and Alex­ander A., Jr., two daughters, Mrs. 
A. C. Mndge and Miss Onolie McDon­nell. He was buried in Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin, after services in the Notre Dame -Cathedral there. 
PERSONALS 
WHO WAS THERE? 

Under the various classes are listed, in smaller type, all those who, in any one or more of three places, registered on the campus within the Commenceicent week­end of June 5-7. The Editors re­alize that many, particularly those who live nearby or vrho came for one day only, did not register and, consequently, are not included in any of the ofHcial registration lists. 
Before 1880 H™-^"J^^ F. Gaiias­her, FitchburR. JIass. Commencement registrants: McCorniack, J. M., {by proxy), Memphis, Tenn. 
Vcnnet, F . H.—South Bend Joe O'Sullivan, '16, Mound City, Illinois, state's attorney, of Pulaski County, wrote to the Alumni Office in May an exceedingly interesting and much-appreciated account of a Notre Dame student of long-ago days. He said: "It recently was my pleasure to meet an old gentleman, Mr. Robert (Uncle Bob) Cunningham, a resident of this county, who was an old stu­dent at Notre Dame, 1862, 1863 and 1864. He has in his possession sev­eral letters written by himself to his father during that time, one of them containing the news of the firing on Fort Sumter. Another letter he has is from Father Sorin to his father about 'Bob's' scholastic standing. The gentleman is the oldest living ex-student of the University." 
(Ed's note: James M. McCorniack, of Memphis, Tennessee, whose grand­son, Donnell McCormack, was gradu­ated with the class of 1936, was also at Notre Dame in 1863-64. Donnell's father, Michael J. McCormack, LL.B., '99, of Memphis, was a most welcome guest on the campus, over the Com­mencement week-end, with other members of this three-generation Notre Dame family.) 
1880-1885 ^"''' ^ll^rt ^'- Anderson, 
Circleville, Ohio Commencement registrants: 
Bertelin!;, Dr. J. B.—South Bend 
1886 M'*a d O. Burns. 33S S. Second St.. Hamilton. Ohio 
Commencement registrants: 
Bums. M, O.—^Hamilton. Ohio 
Smith. J. C.—Chicago 
1887-1888 *^°^" ^ Heineman. Conners­villo. Indiana 
Commencement registrants: Ackermann. F. X.—Notre Dame Bums, Very Rev. J. A.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame 
Father James A. Burns, provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross and former president" of the Uni­versity, returned to the United States in early May after a seven-months' journey in the course of -n-hich he visited the Holy Cross missions in Bengal, India, and other points in Italy, Belgium and France. 
1889 ^- ^-^'"^^-" 1 Camp St.. New Or­leans. Louisiana 
1890-1893 ^"' S P- Chute. 7 University Ave., Minneapolis. Minn, 
Commencement registrants: 
Maurus, E. J.—South Bend 
McKee, J. A.—Versailles. Ky. 
1894 '^"Kh A. O'Donnell. 1 W. C7th Su. Ncn- York City 
Commencement registrants: 
Bolton, r . A.—Newark. Ohio Femcdinff, H.-—Dayton. Ohio 
O'Donnell. H. A.—New York. N. Y. 
1895 Eustace Cullinan. Sr.. 860 Pholan Bldf;.. San Francisco. Calif. 
Commencement registrants: Dompscy. J. J.—^Tacoma. "Wash. Schnur. M. J.—Goshen. Ind 
1896 '^^'"'•"^ I*- Bums. 327 Willard Ave.. Michican City. Ind. 
Commencement registrants: Walsh, W. A.—Yonkers. N. Y. 
1897 ^'^^'- •'• •^- MacNamara. St, Joseph's Sanitarium. Mt. Qomens, Mich. 
Commencement registrants: MacNamara. Rev. J, A.—Mt- Qemens. Mich. 
1898 ^^^il^i'^'" C, Kesler. 9th and Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati. Ohio 
Commencement registrants: Girsch, C. N.—Chicago 
IfiQQ Dr. Joseph F. Duane. 418 Jefferson **'*" ' Blvd., Peoria, HI. 
Commencement registrants: Holland. E. L.—^Baltimore. Md. McCormack. M. J.—Memphis. Tenn. Nieuwland, Rev. J. A.. C.S.C.—^Notre Dame Steiner. Rev. T. A.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame 
1900 'olio '^- EKCeman, Old Firat Bank •••"'" BldB.. Ft Wayne. Ind. 
1901 Joseph J. SulUvan, 1300, 1S9 N. Clark St , Chicago, HI. 
Commencement registrants: 

Marr. Rev. G. I_, aS.C—Notre Dame Smith. E. C.—Harrisburff. Pa. 
1902 <^-^- ^tc'>^'' 110 S. Dearborn St, 
Box 3, Chicaeo, HI. 
Commencement registrants: Dinnen. W. F.—Chicaco Dukette. F. F.—Three Rivers. Mich. 
1903 Francis P. Barke, 9M Trust Co, 
ii»w o g,^^_ Milwaukee, Wis. 
Commencement registrants: 
Carrico, Rev. J. L.. C.S.C.—Notrti Dame 
Lynch. R. E.—Green Bay. Wis. Nccson. J. H.-—Philadelphia. Pa. Wsilsh. Rev. M. J., C.S.C.—Notre Dame 
1904 Robert Proctor, Monger Bide., Elk­hart, Ind. 
Commencement registrants: FarabauKh. G. A.—South Bend Kanaley. B. Y.—Chicago McKcever. F. H.—Chicago 
1905 ^'^'"^ J- O'Connor, 10 S. LaSalle S t Chicago, m . 
Commencement registrants: 
.Tamioson, W. D.—Chicago Sherry. J. J,—Tarrytown. N. Y. 
IQOfi Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen 
±a\m g, ^ Spokane, Wash. 
Commencement registrants: 
Burke. Rev. E. P.. C.S.C.—Notn? Dame Doremus. Rev. C. L.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame Finnegan. Rev. E. J.. CS.C.—Notre Dame McGinn, Rev. J. C C.S.C.—Notre Diune McNemey. L. M.—Elgin. Dl. By.-in. Rev. J. M.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame 
WilHam P. O'Neill, of Mishawaka, was the Commencement speaker at the recent graduation exercises of St. Hedwige's High School, South Bend. 
J9Q7 Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C. S. C, No­tre Dame, Ind. 
Commencement registrants: 
Bolger, Hev. W. A.. CS.C.—Notre Dame Burke. Rev. T. E.. C.S.C—Notre Diune Cunningham. J. V.—Chicago Cunningham. Rev. W. F.. C.S.C.—^Notre Dame Donahue. Verj- Rev. J. W.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame 
iqnS Frank X. Cull. Bulkley Bldg., Qeve­*^" ° land. Ohio. 
Commencement registrants: 
Keach. L. J.—Indianapolis. Ind. Parish, V. A.—Momence, 111. St. GcorRc. M. J.—Chicago 
The Daunt Corporation [William 
A. Daunt] has announced the open­ing of its general sales and business office in the Bowery Savings Bank Building, 110 East 42nd Street, New York Citj'. 
Father Joseph Boyle, '08, president of Portland University, Portland, Oregon, (formerly Columbia) con­tinues to "hold his own" in St. Jo­seph's Hospital, South Bend, accord­ing to recent reports. Seriously stricken in Portland Father Boyle was brought to South Bend under special care some time ago and has since been confined to the Hospital. 
1909 ^ ^- Cleary, Notre Dame. Ind. 
Commencement registrants: 
Cleary. E. P.—Notre Dame 
Collentine. Rev. R. J.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame Hines. J. F.—South Bend Kanaley. J. B.—Chicago 
1910 ^^ -^ ^ Moriaity, 1900 EncUd Ave., aevdand. Ohio. 
Commencement registrants: 
Hebert Rev. P. E.. CS.C—Notre Dame 
McDonagh, H. F.—Chicago 
Miller, M. H.—Qeveland, Ohio 
Moriarty, Rev. M. L.—Cleveland. Ohio 
Sinnott. M. H.—Chicago 
Sorg. C. A.—Middlotown. Ohio 
1911 ^'" l Steers. 1666 First National Bank BIdg., Chicago, 111. 
Commencement registrants: 
Carey. Rev. W. A., CS.C.—Notre Dame Carroll. Rev. P. J., CS.C—Notre Dame do Landero. P. A.—South Bend Figel, E. L.—Chicago Forrcstal. Rev. P. P., C.S.C—^Notre Dame Funk. E. A.—^Anderson, Ind. Helmkamp. W. B.—^Akron. Ohio Hilkert. A. A.—Akron, Ohio Hughes, A. J.—Chicago Kramer. Dr. .1. G.—Akron, Ohio Lahey, Rev. T. A.. CS.C.—Notre Djime Lawton. J. H.—Souh Bend McCaffery, J. J.—South Bend McElhone. Rev. J. F.. CS.C.—Notre Dame Murphy. .1. B.—Dayton. Ohio O'Hara. Rev. J. F.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame Probst. R. O.—South Bend Ryan. W. R.—Cleveland. Ohio Steers, F. L.—Chicago Tully. J. C—La Grange. HI. Wenninger. Rev. F. J.. CS.C.—Notre Dame Wilson. .1. If.—Ne%v York. N. Y. Wirthman. F. G.—Kansas City. Mo. 
1Q12 B. J. Kaiser. 324 Fourth St, ^tts­^^^^ burgh. Pa. 
Commencement registrants: 
Duncan. W.—La Salle. 111. Kaiser. B. J.—Pittsburgh. P.a. Lange. Rev. B. H.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame McGratb, M. C—St Joseph. Mich. Mendcz. F. L.—South Bend Peak. J. E.—South Bend 
1 Q1 ^ James J. Devitt 921 Engineers BIdg., **"• " Qevetand, Ohio. 
Commencement registrants: 
Broussard. C E.—Beaumont Texas Burke. Rev. W. J.. CS.C—Notre Dame Byrne. P. R.—Notre Dame (Sitter. W. E.—Notre Dame Foley. J. T.—Chicago Kelley. Rev. J. C. CS.C—Notre Dame Meersman. P. J.—Molinc. HI. O'Hara. J. W.—Chicago Stack. Rev. J. J.. C.S.C—Notre Dame 
1Q14 Frank H. Hay«s. 406 Bank of Amer­ica BIdg., Anaheim, CWif. 
Commencement registrants: 
Clements. W. L.—South Bend Flynn. Rev. C. J.. CS.C—Notre Dame Miller. R. T.—Qeveland, Ohio Shouvlin. D. It—Springfield, Ohio Vaughan. C. L.—Lafayette. Ind. 
1915 Junes E. Sanford, 1S24 Farwell Ave., " ^ Chicago. HI. 
Commencement registrants: Dolan. Rev. P. H.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame Kelleher. W. A.—Lorain. Ohio Malkowski. J. S.—South Bend Sanford. J. E.—Chicago Vogt. B. R.—Notre Dame 
1 916 Timothy P. Galvin, First Trust BIdg., 
* " " Hammond, Ind. 
Commencement registrants: Galvin. T. P.—Hammond. Ind. Glueckert. Rev. H. G.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame O'Donnell. Rev. J. H., C.S.C.—Notre Dame 
1417 Edward J. HeOsker, 104 S. Union 
* " St, Elgin, m. 
Commencement registrants: Guendling. J. E.—South Bend Hilgartner. D. E.—Chicago Scott H. E.—Indianapolis. Ind. Voll. B. J.—South Bend 1918 J"'"' •*• I-emmer, 1110—ath Ave.. S.. 

Escanaba, Mich. 

Commencement registrants: 
Holdcrith. Rev. G. L.. C.S.C—Notre Dnmc 
Kiley. J. T.—Muskcson, Mich. 
Schock. G. A.—South Bcnil 
Arthur L. May, prominent South Bend attorney, •\vill make the wel­coming address at the 40th annual convention of the Indiana State Bar association to he conducted at Lake Wawasee, Indiana, in July. 
Dick Swift, with Ralph G. Smith and J. M. Maloney, has announced the formation of the law firm of Smith, Swift and Maloney in Baven­port, Iowa. The new offices of the firm are in the Union Bank Building. 
1919 CI^O' ^ Bader, 650 Pierce Street. Gary, Ind. 
Commencement registrants: 
Fcnion, P.—Notre Dame 
Haller. G. D.—Detroit, Mich. 
Harmon, L. V.—South Bend 
McDonald. Rev. J. H.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame 
Weinrich. A. C.—Chicajto 
1920 ''°° ^- '^•^d- 1912 Blacic Bide., Loa 
Ansclcs. Calif. 

Commencement registi-ants: 
Brennan. J. H.—Chicnpo ConaKhnn, P. R.—Chicago Connerton. Rev. J. W.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame Doran. M. E.—South Bend Fajran. V. F.—South Bend FarrinRton. F. S.—South Bend Malone. G. .1.—South Bend Miller. W. R.—Oeveland. Ohio Patterson. D. J.—South Bend Wartl. Rev. L. L., C.S.C.—Notre Dame 
1921 ''" " ^^'" I'"Ty, 1600 Terminal Tower. Oeveland. Ohio 
Commencement registrants: 
Bray, A. T.—Wai>okonet.i. Ohio 
Byrne. P.—Crown Point, Ind. 
DcttlinK. J. A.—Akron. Ohio 
Duffy. D. W.—Cleveland. Ohio 
Ea-sley. D. J.—South Bend 
Kline. C. J.—South Bend 
McLellan. H. J.—South Bend 
Miller, C. E.—South Bend 
Nyikos. S. F.—South Bend 
Sanford. J. F.—MuskcKon. Mich. 
Schmitt. A. D.—Dccitur. Ind. 
Schubmehl. R. .1.—South Bend 
SlaKKcrt. A. N.—Detroit, Mich. 
Smith. M. F.—Santa Clara. Calif. Sweeney. W. A.—Sotith Bend 
1Q92 Gerald Ashe. BuSalo Athletic Club. 
l.at.t. Buffg,o_ -^^ York. 
Commencement registrants: 
Ashe. G. A.—Rochester, N. Y. 
Dixon. J. F.—ChicaKo 
FoKarty. Rev. J. A.. C.S.C—Notre Dame 
Herbert. E. C—South Bend 
HuKuenanl. A. H.—South Bend 
Keams, R. J.—Terre Haute. Ind. 
Kecfe. Dr. T. L.—Earl Park. Ind. 
McCabc. .1. R.—South Bend 
McOibc. T. S.—Chicaso McCafTery. B. .!.—South Bend Mohardt. Dr. J. H.—Chicaso P.-iden. P. v.—South Bend Richards. Rev. T. D.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame 
Shilts. W. L.—South Bend Weber. A. H.—South Bend "Wenzke. H. H.—Notre Dame 
1Q2 ^ P* ^ Caatner, White Motor Company. *** ** aevelsnd, Ohio. 
Commencement registrants: 
Branniinin. Rev. J. M., C.S.C.—^Notre Dame Brecn. F. J.—Lakeville. Ind. BruKKner, L. V.—South Bend Byrne. J. G.—Buffalo, N. Y. Carberr>-. G. M.—Ames. Iowa 
Casasanta. J. J.—South Bend Castner, P. H.—Cleveland. Ohio Connell, J. F.—South Bend Curran. Dr. K. E.—Kansas City. Mo. Desch. A. G.—Elmhurst. III. Donaldson, J. F.—Chicago Doran, Dr. P. C.—Akron. Ohio Flinn. N. W.—Superior. Wis. FIj-nn, J. R.—Qeveland, Ohio Furey, W. J.—South Bend, Ind. Gould. E. W.—ChicaRO Kreimor, E. P.—South Bend Martin. J. R.—ChicaKO MontaKUe, J. M,—Chicaso Sloody. F. A.—Chicaj^o Nash, R. J.—Chicago Norton. J. C.—Chicauo Nyikos. J. W.—South Bend Payton. E. J.—South Bend Rauh. \V. I.—South Bend ReddiUKton. Rev. J. J.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame Rie<ler. L. P.—South Bend Rohrbach, .T. M.—Crown Point, Ind. Shea. W. E.—Dayton. Ohio Voss, W. L.—Har\ey. III. Wallace. Francis—New Y'ork. N. Y. 
The local Catalyzer reports that 
Bob Quinn, who has been with the 
International Paper Company in re­
search work, is now with Johns-
Manville, Manville, New Jersey, and 
is residing at 9 Tichenor Place, Mont­
clair, New Jersey. 
1094 James F. Hayes, Wm. J. Fedrick A ^ Co., Empire State Bids., N. Y. C. 
Commencement registrants: 
Barber. T. W.—Erie. P.-i. Boehm. A. M.—Chicaso Cooke, T. E.—ChicaiK) Fcltcs, N. N.—Chicaso Green. J. A.—New Castle. Pa. Haley. J. H.—Detroit, Mich. Hart, Rev. J. E., C.S,C.—Notre Dame Kelley, Rev. T. A.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame Kennedy, P. J.—Templeton, Ind. Kocbel. M. J.—Buffalo. N. Y. Maher. W. R.—ChicaRO Meehan. J. R.—South Bend Miller. J. E.—South Bend Moore. Rev. V. S.. C.S.C—Notre Dame Norton. J. J.—Detroit. Mich. Rink, R. M.—Goshen. Ind. Riordnn. R. B.-^Notre Dame Spuller, L. W,—ChicaEo Stillman, H. B.—Birminjiham, Jlich. Sullivan. E. S.—Fort Wayne. Ind. 
1Q2S J°)™ ^ . Scallan, 79 E. Adams St.. ^^^ ChicaEO. m . 
Commencement registi-ants: 
Armstrontx, J. E.—Notre Dame Barry. T. J.—Notre Dame BaumKartner, C, L.—South Bend Braunsdorf. Wm.—South Bend Bunco, F, C.—La Porte. Ind. Oity. G. J.—South Bend Cunningham. R. C.—Detroit. Mich. Dixon. R. A.—Dixon. III. Hardinc. C W.—South Bend Hoyer. R. A.—South Bend Hurley. J. P.—Toledo. Ohio Koch. G. T.—South Bend McAvoy, Rev, T. T.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame McNicholas, J. F.—ChicaRO Merriman. W. E.—Rochester, N, Y. Miller. D. C—Cleveland. Ohio O'Connor. T.—Detroit. Mich. OTooIe, J. J.—Pittsbursh. Pa. Porta, A. J.—South Bend Potts. J. C—South Bend Powers. L. .1.—ChicaRO Rohrbach. G. E.—South Bend Scallan, J, W,—ChicaRO Schaeter, G, F.—Detroit. Mich. Sheehe. G. B.—South Bend 
Herman Centlivre, of Fort Wayne, was up to the University on June 15 with an excellent prospective Fresh­man for next Fall, Jerome O'Dowd, and Jerry's father. 
1926 ^'** ^^•'^'** ^^- Hayes, 86 Hawthorne Ave., East OranRe, N. J. 
Commencement registrants: 
Bailey. J. A.—ChicaRO Barr. W. R.—Chalmers. Ind. 
Boiewicj. J. S.—South Bend Burke, T, A.—Brooklyn, N. Y. Dooley, W. R.—Notre Dame EnRels, N. A.—South Bend Fallon. E. A.—Brooklyn. N. Y. Ferguson, T. E.—Thompsonville, Conn. Foley, A. M.—South Bend. Griffin, J. T,—ChicaRO Haley, J. A.—^Notrc Dame Knau?, M. F.—Detroit, Mich, Mason, C, E,—Indianapolis, Ind. McDermott. G. V.—ChicaRO O'Day. G. P.—Oeveland. Ohio G'Malley. V. D.—Chicaco Probst, J. E.—South Bend Roche, Rev, K, L.—Havana, III, Ronan, J. A.—ChicaRO Suder. A. H.—Toledo, Ohio Travis. A. R.—East ChicaRO, Ind. Tuohy. J. O.—Oak Park. HI. 
Joe Sexton, the Indianapolis bar­rister, was nominated on the Demo­cratic ticket for state senator at the recent primaries. 
Eddie (Tug) O'Neill, Jackson, Michigan, financier, was at the Uni­versity on May 9. 
Tom lUurphy, M. A. '26, and John Kelleher, M.A. '30, are busy again with their Kamp Columbia, which they conduct each summer in Mon­roe, Orange County, New York, for boys from seven to 17. Each Sum­mer Tom and John are able to em­ploy a number of Notre Dame men, thus giving the whole set-up a de­cidedly Notre Dame flavor. A chap-Iain and a physician reside in the camp. 
1927 Edmund DeClerq, 8118 Ellis Ave.. ChicaRO, III. 
Commencement registrants: Banworth, G. S.—Elizabeth, HL 
•BoerinRer. A. B.—St. Paul. Minn. Brown. J S.—New Y'ork. N. Y. Clarke. W. P.—Toledo. Ohio Coyne. W. J.—South Bend DuRan. J. M.—Kansas City, JIo. Dunn. T. B.—Morris. HI. FitzRCrald. D. A.—^Mundelein, 111. Halpin, J. J.—ChicaRO Halpin. R. L,—ChicaRO Henry, M, A.—Crown Point, Ind IrmiRer. R.—ChicaRO .Tones, H. E.—Notre Dame KavanauRh. W. D.—Dayton, Ohio McNeills, J, F,—ChicaRO Moran, F, E.—South Bend O'Connor, T, E.—Bellefontaine. Ohio Smith. A. M.—LaPortc. Ind Sullivan, J. E.—ChicaRO Travis, W^ L,—-Hammond, Ind, Wilkins, D. J.—ChicaRO 
Vince McNally has returned to the home diggings in Philadelphia after five years at St. Mary's College, Cal­ifornia. He is assistant project man­ager for the Philly recreation de­partment and conducts a weekly sports program on a local radio station. 
Gerry Froelich has announced the opening of law offices in the Federal Trust Building, Newark, New Jersey. 
Joe O'Donnell writes from Chica­go: "Just a line on a few of the 1927 boys to assure that we have not all passed away. The other night we had a bachelor dinner for Ed Garrity and the following men were in at­tendance: Jim McNicholas, '25, John Moran, '26, and the following men from the class of '27: Ray McClory. Ray Mumane, Ed McLaughlin, Ed Ryan, Fred Dentscfa, and myself, and from 1928: Little Willie Mnrphy. Joe Enright and the guest of honor, Ed Garrity. Needless to say, a good time was had by all." 
Red Smith, according to the recent dope, has been signed to coach the Boston Shamrocks in the new Ameri­can professional football league. 
Professor Tom Madden of the Uni­versity English facultj- will be among the travelers in Mexico this Summer. 
1928 ^"' = Buckley, 7IS E. Corby SL. South Bend. Ind 
Commencement registrants: 

Armin. W. F.—Sprincficld, HI. Bochnini;. J. W.-—Indianapolis, Ind. Bron-n, F. E.—Elkhart. Ind. Buckley, L, F.—South Bend 
Callagy, M. V.—New York. N. Y. 
Canny, J. P.—Cleveland. Ohio 
Cavanaush, J. W.—ChicaRo 
Conner, G. B.—New Y'ork, N. Y. 
Coury. G. B..—Chicaco Don-ncy, W. H.—Niles, Mich. 
FitzBcrald, Rev. M. J., C.S.C.—Notre Dame Frederick. J. F.—Sacinaw, Mich. 
Gibson, D. N.—Plymouth, Ind. 
Goelitz, W. G.—Oak P.ark. III. 
Grant, R. A.—South Bend Griffin, J. W.—Milwaukee, Wis. 
Gury. A. F.—Peoria. III. 
Hamel, Rev, C. F.. C.S.C.,—Notre Dame Hasley, H,—Ft. Wayne. Ind. Huth, E. A.—South Bend Jones. W. B.—Helena. Montana McGuire. E. P.—ChicaKO McKcnna, R. L.—South Bend McKeown. E. P.^Chicaco Morrissey, J. S.—Cincinnati. Ohio Noon, T. J.—Brooklyn. N. Y. Phelan, R. L.—Chicago 
Raftiir. E. P.—ChicnEO Rich. R. E.—South Bend 
Scheuer, G. A.—South Bond 
Strohm. F. H.—Delaware, Ohio 
Wafmcr, W. F.—South Bend 
Worden, R. A.—Goshen. Ind. 
Swede Schroeder did us a good turn when he suggested that Joe De­bott make a contribution a la Win­chell to this column. Thanks to Joe, I have news for you concerning some of the men about whom we have been seeking information since grad­uation. Joe is associated with the Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Com­pany in Geneva. Joe's address is 171 
W. North St., Geneva, New York. 
Joe Geraghty is in Rochester, New York, employed by a brokerage firm. Married and has one baby girl. Jim Berry runs a farm near Geneva, New York. Married and has two children. John Larsen is li\-ing and working in Geneva. Employed by Thuron Op­tical Company. Larry Culliney is a Federal bank examiner. Tom Canty is with the John Hancock Life In­surance Companv in Batavia, New York. 
Ed Dean is married and living in McKee's Eocks, Pennsylvania: Joe Haney of Newark, New York, has recently opened his own law office there. Gene Schiltz also of Newark is married and has two children. He is in the coal business. Don Corbett is practicing law in Brockport, New York, after a year's engagement in New York Assembly. Don is married and has a boy about a month old. Barney Connolly of Eochester, New York, is an accountant with the Cen­tral Trust and Bank. He has been married for the past four years. Barney would like to know what has become of his room-mate, Cal Oulette. Thanks, Joe, for the news. I hope you TOU not wait eight years before writing again. 
Now that Joe has done his part by bringing to light some of the '28ers for whom we have been look­ing, how about a line from some of the rest of you especially: Joe Bair­ley, John and Pete Beime, Frank Beggan, Jim Hoehning, Roge Breslin, John Buschemeyer, Ed Carringer, John Carlin, Les Carrig, Russell Col­lins, Al Davis and Earl Dardes. 
1929 Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin Street, Indianapolis, Ind. 
Commencement registrants: 
Bartholomew, P, C—South Bend Bocskei, S, C—South Bend Brown, J. R.—Racine, Wis. Brown. W. E.—Slilwaukee. Wis. 
Cronin. W. F.—Daj-ton. Oliio Donohoc. E. F.—Cincinnati, Ohio Elder. J, J.—ChicaEO Fortier, W. C—South Bend Gar\-in, Rev. J. N., C.S.C.—Notre Dame Grossman. J.—South Bend HarUer. N. J.—South Bend Hinkel, J. V.—New Y'ork. N. Y. Hooybocr. Rev. C. A., CS.C.—Notre Dame Johnson. T. J.—Chicaco Kcatinff. J. E.—South Bend Konop, K. J.—Indianapolis. Ind. Lauber, J. W.—South Bend McManigal, H. J.—Cleveland. Ohio McNamara. J. P.—Indianapolis. Ind. Metrailer, F. M.—Ft. Waj-ne. Ind. 0*Connor. W. S.—I^dian.^polis, Ind. O'TooIe. Rev. C. J.. CS.C—Notre Dame Saxon, D. W.—Memphis. Tenn. Schlaser. R. G.—Elsin, HI, Smola, F. A.—Chic-JKO Tobin, Dr. .T. W.—Elsin, HI. 
Tom Mahon writes from the 
Thompson & McKinnon office in Du­
luth, Minnesota: "Have just returned 
from the East and was in New York 
for Universal Notre Dame Night, the 
first time I have ever taken part in 
such a doings. Met lots of old friends 
whom I had not seen since 1928: Bob 
Hamilton, Jim Conmey, Bud McMor­
row. Bud Callagy, Bemie Garber, 
Hugh O'Donnell, Joe Lenihan and 
others too numerous to mention. 
Met Marty Ryan in Buffalo. Couldn't 
find any of the boys in Toronto, 
though. I don't even know whether 
or not there are any there." 
Leo Mclntyre, Bethlehem, Penn­sylvania writes: 
Franklyn E. Doan, '29, paid me a most welcome and surprising visit at my home several weeks ago. He told me that he had just moved with his wife and family from Akron, Ohio, to Reading, 34 miles distant from Bethlehem, where he is entering upon new duties as eastern manager of junior circulation for the Crowell Publishing Company. 
Frank also informed me that Cyril Jones, '29, who moved with his par­ents to Reading from Allentown nearly a decade ago, is taking post­graduate work in social service at the University of Pittsburgh. Cy has been one of the mainstays of the East-Penn alumni club and his at­tendance record at all club meetings, functions, et cetera is 100 per cent. 
We in the hinterlands have also been informed that Kenueth Leonard Stilley, a member of the 1935 varsity eleven, has been elected to coach football and sundry sports at Allen­town Preparatory School which for years has produced some of the best athletic teams in eastern preparatory ranks. 
The East-Penn Club, needless to say, is mighty proud of the fact that Harry Stuhldreher, '25, was chosen as director of athletics and head foot­ball coach of the University of Wis­consin. He frequently appeared in our midst during the 11 years he served so brilliantly as Villanova college's head football coach. 
1930 Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth St., New Kensington. Pa. 
Commencement registrants: 
Apodaca. J. L.—South Bend August. Dr. R. V.—MuskeKon. Mich. Bartley, J. A.—MorKUnfield. Ky. 
Cronin, E. J.—Ludington, Mich. Draves, H. W.—Chicago Fitzgerald. Rev. E. R., CS.C.—Notre Dame Fitisimmons, L. P.—La Porte, Ind. Hasloy, L. L.^South Bend Heidkamp. P. C.—Chicago Holland. J. P.—Chicago Holmes. R. A.—South Bend Jennings, H. L.—South Bend Lane, Rev. J. J., CS.C.—Notre Dame Langford. W. M.—South Bend Lennon, C. F.—Joliet, Bl. Loyce. R. A.—Crown Point, Ind. McAdams, F. .1.—Chicago McMahon, E. R.—Detroit. Mich. Meredith. E. M.—South Bend Plunket, D. T.—South Bend Reidy, J. G.—Lakewood, Ohio Rigney, J. S.—Chicago Rocap, J. T.—Indianapolis. Ind. Rohr, C. E.—Cleveland. Ohio Schoppman, F. D.—Ft. Wayne. Ind. Shipacasse, A. J.—Cleveland, Ohio Sowa. F. J.—South Bend Webster. H. S.—South Bend Weigand, K. R.—South Bend Yelland. J. D.—^Minneapolis, Minn. Young, R. B.—Hammond. Ind. 
Dr. Frank Kane writes from St. Vincent's Hospital, New York City, where he is a house surgeon, to con­gratulate the University on honoring the Mayo brothers at the recent Com­mencement. Frank has had the priv­ilege of working under the supervi­sion of a Mayo-trained doctor for the past two years. 
Dinny Shay has been appointed by Head Coach Adam Walsh as back­field coach at Bowdoin College in Maine. 
Professor Louie Hasley was the author of poems which appeared re­cently in Columbia, Spirit and The Ave Maria, 
John F. Healy is vice-president of the Hayes Travel Service, 318 South Michigan Avenue, Chicago. 
Tom Mahon, of Superior, Wiscon­sin, writes too, too enchantingly—as follows: 
Herewith a report of the coming events of the Notre Dame Club of Sphene Lake, Ontario. 
Along about this time of the year those of us hereabouts who are enam­cured of the great outdoors are taken with a strange malady. The most pro­nounced symptom is a far-away look in the eye and a tendency to prowl around the attic looking for fishing tackle, Chippewa boots, heavy shirt and other appurtanences of the fish­erman. I had just recovered from my first attack of the year when Ted Twomey blew into town from Texas and now I'm all broken out with a rash of keen anticipation for the Summer ahead. 

It just happens that Ted owns a sportsmen's camp up in Canada about 45 miles north of the border at In­ternational Falls, St. Frances. I spent two weeks with him last year and re­gained several years of my lost youth. To reach thg camp one must go about 40 to 45 miles by motor boat up Rainy Lake, but boy, oh boy, when you get there! The guy that wrote "Paradise Lost" should have dropped in 'at Ted's camp. Not an­other habitation on the lake. The closest automobile or railroad is about 40 miles away. The lakes are full of fish: bass. Northern pike, mus-Wes, lake trout, etc. Those of us who have seen the camp claim it is the finest in the North woods not only in location but in equipment. If any of your friends want to take a real vacation, whether they like to fish or just lie around, tell them to get in touch with Ted. 
Ted and I have an appointment with a fish of unknown specie in a rock-bound bay on one of the adja­cent lakes later on this summer. We encountered it one hot afternoon last season and he nearly broke my pole. He hit and almost shook me out of the canoe. I played him for a few minutes, then he played me. He flipped his tail and snapped my line and off he went with a new dollar lure. 
Come on up, Jim, and enjoy life as is life and bring Ted and me a charter for the Notre Dame Club of Sphene Lake, Ontario. 
Bernie Conroy writes: 
I am pleased to report that I am back in the Smoky City again. It certainly is dirty here, but nobody worries about that as long as the pay envelopes are fat enough. 
I managed to run into a few of the boys on the way back from the Coast. Al Gebert is stiU in Wichita, where he runs the athletic depart­ment of the university. He and Nordy Hoffmann, his assistant, were busy running a track meet when I dropped in on them. Al told me life would not be half as hard if he had only one student"'manager like they raise at N.D. 
Dan Welchoni and wife have a pleasant little home in the thriving city of Ottawa, Kansas. Dan is a grocery distributor and is getting along fine. While in Kansas I also heard that Spike England is located there and that the Moon Mullins now have a baby daughter in addition to their two boys. 
John Igoe, '28, hailed me as I was driving around St. Louis trying to get located. We had a pleasant eve­ning and were joined by Mr. and Mrs. Bob Hellrung. Bob intends to take in the Ohio State game next year and hopes to meet some of his old friends. Igoe is in the sales de­partment of the National Tube Com­pany. Jack Hughes, '31, was in St. Louis rounding up some orders for his lumber business in Jacksonville, Florida. I did not get to see Jack, but I did speak to him on the 'phone and he still has that pleasant South-em drawl. 
Getting back to California: I found Doug Daley very busy keeping the Los Angeles Club in shape. Doug keeps a close check on all the boys and handles the tough assignment of secretary with lots of pep and effi­ciency. I had a very pleasant visit with Doug and met Mrs. Daley and Larry, age three years. 
Chet Ashman is still single and keeping busy in the credit depart­ment of the Sears-Eoebuck Company. We took a night off to visit the Co­coanut Grove vrifh. a couple of Holly­wood's fairest. 
Another Sears-Eoebuck employee 
whom I saw was Jim Navarre, ex. 
'30, formerly a resident of Monroe, Michigan, but for the past five years the star salesman of the refrigera­tion department in Sear's Los An­geles store. I visited Jim at his home at 3619 First Avenue, Highway High­lands, California, and we had a not­so-pleasant evening as far as I was concerned. The cards were stacked! He is married to a St. Mary's girl, Euth McKillup, and they now have a girl and a boy to make up a happy family. Charlie Bonniwell, ex. '30, stopped in at the Navarre's when I was there. Charlie, a Chicago boy, finished his college career at the Uni­versity of Chicago after leaving No­tre Dame. He is married, works for Warner Brothers, and lives at 12415 Magnolia Boulevard, North Holly­wood, Calif. 
Louie Bernard!, '30, wandered in­to Holywood from Kenosha, Wiscon­sin, and he has been connected with the Best Drug Stores for the past few years. He was working in the prescription department of the store on'Wilshire Boulevard, and La Brea Avenue when I saw him. His home address is 504 North Harper Avenue, Holywood California. 
Getting around to some of the na­tives Larry Moore is getting along fine with Wailter Wanger Produc­tions. He is a film cutter and is liv­ing at 1142 South Clark Drive, Los Angeles. Nick Lukata, Paramount's latest find, is staying with Larry. 
Fred Pique is connected with the Hammond Shipping Co. Ltd., 2010 Alemeda Street, Los Angeles and he lives at 8254 Fountain Avenue, Hol­lywood. Fred is married and is very active as the president of the Bail and Water Club of Los Angeles. 
Ed Sheeran, '31, is doing fine with the Local Loan Co. of Long Beach. 
Charles Gass, '30, has his law of­fices at 453 South Spring St., Los Angeles. 
Art Erra has deserted Akron for Hollywood and may be in the movies soon. At present he is a very busy investment banker with the firm of Geo. L. Browning & Co., 612 South Spring Street, Los Angeles. 
Tom Ashe, '31, is working hard at Emsco Derrick Company, 6120 Ala­meda Street, Los Angeles. His home address is El Patio -Apartments, 2411 Gage Avenue, Huntington Park. Tom has put on a little weight and he is still single. 
H. Manfred Vezie is the busiest man in California. Manny is assist­ant to Tom Lieb at Loyola, fools around with the movies (he carries a spear in "Romeo and Juliet"), and the rest of his time he promotes his camp for boys. The camp is located at Huntington Lake in the High Sier­ras, about 250 miles from Los Ange­les. It must be a grand place and it is going over great due to Manny's hard work. He has a boy of his own who is about four years old. 
Tom Lieb looks fine. He plays St. Mary's this year and hopes to pack the Coliseum. 
Al Howard looks fine and is work­ing for the Standard Gas Company, Adams and Washington -Avenues, Los Angeles. 
All of the fellows are looking for­ward to the football teams visit next fall and they are planning the usual Califomian unforgetable celebration. 
-Among the newly wedded are Jack Walker and Miss Mary Helen Thomas of Baltimore. Also R. Zeno Staudt and Miss Mary Grace Stoddard of Loveland, Colorado, on the 21st of April. 
Don Alexander, Jr., is working for the Alexander Kim Company of Col­orado Springs, Colorado. 
John Beljon's Orchestra was right on the job at Bishop Schrembs Silver Jubilee Celebration in Cleveland on April 27. 
Joe Abbott is very busy seeing that the Kenny Brothers put up a new postoffice on West 80th Street in New York City. 
Frank Walker, '30, is located in Washington, D. C., now and Joe Lor­di continues to be one of the nations leading squash tennis players. 
Professor Walt Langford, with his wife and two children, ^vill be in Mexico City for a good part of the Summer, while Walt attends the Uni­versity of Mexico. 

John O'Neill receives plaudits in the June Octagon, a journal of American Institute of Architects, for his excellent efforts in gaining fur­ther support of the fedei^al govern­ment in a movement of the Institute to preserve historic American build­ings. John is an associate architect of the government Park Service. 
1931 '°'™ ^- Boland. 1402 Linden St.. Scranton. Pa. 
Commencement registrants: 

Abraham, A. J.—South Bend AIBC. R. P.—Findlay, Ohio Anderson, J. W.—South Bend AnKsten, P. J.—Chicago Baldingcr. L. H.—Notre Dame Baskcnille, R. J.—Joliet. Bl. Baumann, C. M.—Erie. Pa. Beauprc. H. .T.—Grosse Pointe. Mich. Benito, T. E.—New York, N. Y. Benkendorf. R. C.—ChicaKO Bennett, H. L.—Mishawaka, Ind. Bersan. J. E.—Indianapolis, Ind. Bohling, N. J.—Chicago Boyland. J. F.—Grand Rapids. Mich. Boyie, A. L.—^Newr Orleans, La. Brandon. L. H.—South Bend Brieger, E. W.—^Taylor. TcKas Brow-n. J. J.—Central Falfs. K. I. Chawgo, W. B.—Aurora, 111. Clark, D. A.—South Bend Coleman, D. D.—Granger. Ind. Collins, A. L., C.S.C.—Notre Dame Collins, R. F.—Streator. 111. Conness, R. E.—Notre Dame Coomes, E. A.—^Notre Dame Costello. G F.—Detroit. Mich. Coyle, E. C—Chicago Cronin, C—Chicago Crowley, J. J.—South Bend Cushwa. C. B.—^YounKstown. Ohio Deeb, J. F.—Grand Rapids, Mich. Dempsey, J. E.—Oshkosh, Wis. Donovan, C. J.—Bedford. Ind. Dorschcl. J. G.—Rochester, N. Y. Doyle, J. T.—Chicago Draves, Dr. E. F.—Detroit, Mich. Dunda, R. J.—Joliet, Bl. Durbin. G. A.—Detroit, Mich. Egan. D. J.—Chicago Enright, R. J.—Chicago Field, O. F.—Springfield, III. Fisher. C. L.—Chicago Gannon. Dr. F. J.—Cleveland. Ohio Garland. L. B.—LaGrange. HI. Gavin. J. J.—Cleveland, Ohio Giroux, R. \V.—Muskegon His,, Stich. Golobowski. J. T.—Springfield. HI. Goodeve, M. A.—Calgary, Alberta, Canada Granger, A. E.—Hartford City, Ind. Griifin, J. J.—Chicago Grisanti. A. C.—Cleveland, Ohio Gross. S. R.—Chicago Halligan, M. J.—Detroit. Mich. Halpin, D. D.—New York. N. Y Henneberger. F. J.—Princeton. Ind. Hershfield. M. C.—Goshen, Ind. Holland. F. jr.—Chicago Hosinski. E. J.—South Bend Houser, Rev. J. F., C.S.C.—Notre Dame Jackoboice, G. A.—Grand Rapids, 3Iich. Karl, W. G.—Newark. N. J. Kavanaugh. G. F.—Springfield. Ohio Kearney, J. J.—Chicago Kletily. I,. J.—Wheeling. W. Va. Kno.t. V. J.—Crystal Lake. HI. Kolski, A. G.—Chicago Konkowski. R. N.—Chicago Konop, P. L.—Louisville. Ky. Kopek. H. S.—Detroit. Mich. Krai, L. P.—Ocveland. Ohio Lauerman. J. A.—Marinettte. Wis. Laux. J. F.—Flint. Mich. Leahy. W. R.—Chicago Tyonev. F. M.—Cincinnati, Ohio MacDonald, D. F.—Flint. Mich. Mahoney, J. M.—Chicago Malonoy, A. J.—Chicago McGIone, B. G.—Meredosia, HI. McGreal, F. J.—Chicago McMurray. J. J.—Chicago McNally. W. J.—Chicago 
Merdzinski, H. L.—Grand Rapids, Mich. Monahan. T. F.—Areola, 111. Murphy, D. F.—LaCrosse. Wis. Murphy, J. G.—Middletown, Conn. Murphy, Rev. R. D., C.S.C.—Notre Dame Murray, E. J.—Notre Dame Neydon, R. L.—Detroit. Mich. Noll, F. J.—Indianapolis, Ind. Oakes. T. E.—Chicago O'Brien. J. J.—Chicago O'Connor, H. J.—Rockford. III. O'Connor, W. F.—Bayonnc. N. J. O'JIalley, W. L.—Chicago. O'Toole. D. E.—Chicago Pascoir, M.—Chicago Pendergast, R. L.—Chicago Petrauskas, A. A.-—Cicero, III. Ponic, V. G.—Chicago Poulin, R. J.—South Bend Powers, C. F.—Savannah, Ga. Rahaim, F. J.—Jacksonville, Fla. Raleigh. J. J.—Oeveland, Ohio Redmond. W. J.—Chicago Reed. T. B.—South Bend Re>-niers, L. T.—Chicago Rich. J. C—Oak Park, HI. Rigney. E. D.—Chillicothe. Ohio Roth. S. J.—Flint. Mich. Ruppc. R. J.—Hancock, Mich. Rusk. D. R.—Chicago Ryan. E. B.—Chicago Salmon. T. G.—Trenton, N. J. Saunders, J. F.—Lowell. Mass. Schpoedcr. J. R.—Minneapolis. Minn. Seaman. H. G.—Chicago Smith. C. A.—South Bend Smith. R. L.—Chicago Stallkarap, C. F.—Dolphos. Ohio Stepan. A. C.—Chicago Sullivan. J. C.—Auburn. N. Y. Sullivan. .T. R.—Chicago Sutton. D. B.—Detroit. Mich. Thompson. B. E.—Chicago Tischler. R. G.—Cleveland. Ohio VanRooy. W.—Qeveland. Ohio Weiss. C. F.—South Bend West. F. R.—South Bend WcUi. J. L.—Toledo. Ohio Wider, M. F.—Detroit, Mich. Williams. D. C.—New Haven. N. Y. Wittman. C. G.—Erie, Pa. Zuber. J. H.—Saginaw, Mich. 
Tom Oakes and Bill Leahy were down from Chicago for the spring football game on Sunday, May 3, and started then their plans to promote Chicago '31 attendance at the five-year re-union. Joining forces with Jim Doyle, they did a grand job, as the x-egistration herewith testifies. 
John Bergan was the South Bend chairman for the five-year re-union. -A.nd here again results are, as usual, much mote eloquent than words. John, with a bunch of the local lads co-operating beautifully, put over the program with an emphatic bang. He desen'es lots of thanks. 
Dr. Thaddeus Goraczewski, of South Bend, received his degree in medicine from Marquette University on June 17. 
Tom O'Melia was graduated from the Dental School, Georgetown Uni­versity, at the June ceremonies. He was a member of the student council there. 
1Q^7 Herbert Giorgio, 9005 183th St., Hol­*'"*** lis, L. L, New York. 
Commencement registrants: 

Bclden. P. B.—Canton, Ohio Buckley, W. W.—Chicago. Cannon. R. G.—Elgin. HI. 
Carey, J. H.—New York. N. Y. Cass. W. P.—Buffalo. N. Y. De Bartola. E. J.—^Youngstwwn. Ohio Donnino. 'W. P.—Jamaica. N. Y. Donoghue, L. A.—^Miami, Fla. Franzwa. G. F.—Portland. Ore. Hamilton, J. W.—Ann Arbor, Mich. Harbaugh, N. F.—South Bend Hcnnion. G. F.—South Bend. Igoe. J. T.—Chicago Jauch. J. W.—Niles. Mich. 
Killian, D. B. Canton. Ohio 
Kiolbasa, W. A.—Chicago 

Kolski, E. T.—Chicago 
Laughna, J. P.—Grosse Pointe Park, Mich. 

Magarrall, W. J.—Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Melchionc, E. J.—Chicago 

Murphy, W. F.—Newark, N. J. 
Norton, F. A.—Rochester, N. Y. 
O'Malley, E. F.—South Bend. 
O'Malley. T. P.—Aurora, 111. 

Pctritz, J. S.—Notre Dame 
Pflaum. D. J.—Adrian, Mich. 

Rohrbach. R. J.—Detroit. Mich. 
Ryan. D. T.—Oak Park. 111. 
Schrantz. P. C—Ft. Wayne, Ind. 
Schwartz. M. H.—Omaha, Neb. 
Spangenberg, C. E,—Elmhurst. HI. 
Ward. J. J.—New York. N. Y. 
Wilson. J. H.—Notre D.Tme 
John Hamilton is with the Van­adium Corporation of America and is stationed in the Department of En­gineering Research at the University of Michigan. 
Father Vince Brennan celebrated his first solemn Mass in St. Joseph's church. South Bend, on Sunday, June 21, following his ordination as a priest of the Pittsburgh diocese, in St. Vincent's Archabbey, Latrobe, Pennsylvania, a week before. The sermon for the first Mass was preached by Father Tom Brennan, C.S.C, '23. Vince attended Holy Cross seminary at Notre Dame and the Holy Cross College in Rome be­fore finishing his college work at Notre Dame in 1932. Father Vince Mooney, C.S.C, '16, is his uncle. 
John Connolly, of Toledo, was nominated for state senator on the Democratic ticket at the recent Ohio primaries. 
Eugene Arter, of South Bend, re­ceived his doctor of psychology de­gree from the Institute of Psychiatric Research in Indianapolis on June 7. 
Frank Norton, Rochester, New York, was at the University for the week-end of May 8-10. 
Frank Tomasi was this year's senior class president in the School of Dentistry at Georgetown and chair­man of the student council. He was graduated with the June class there. 
Carl Meyer, '32, is working in the Corps of Engineers of the State of Illinois. He has been employed in this capacitj' for the past two years. 
Charlie Nash and Roy Catizone both received their M.D. degrees this month from Loyola University, Chi­cago. 
19^3 Donald Wise. 110 Pleasant St., Jo­liet, HI. 
Commencement registrants: 

Ackerman. E. L.—Detroit. Mich. Bochm, P. F. South Bend Boyle, P. J.—Gary, Ind. Brucker, R. A.—South Bend Cannon "W. Jf.—South Bend Cashman. B. J.—South Bend 
Cavanaugh, E. L.—Oil City, Pa. Conley, G. A,—Connersville, Ind. Crimmins. J. M.—Chicago Danehy. J. P.—Notre Dnme Darmody. P. A.—Chicago Dorris. T. B.—Utica. N. Y. Duke. N. E.—IJiPorte. Ind. Egan, J. F.—Springfield. Mass. Fitzpatrick. J. D.—South Bend Fitzsimmons, R. J.—South Bend Ford, W. B.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame 
Prank, C. H.—Buffalo. N. Y. Gocnfrich. G. A.—South Bend Griffin. T. E.—Toledo, Ohio Hafron. C. F.—South Bend Hess. C. J.—Kalamazoo, Slich. Kelley, J. J.—Eau Claire, Wis. Kirincich. J.—Joliet. 111. Krinowitz. M. J.-—Niles, Mich. Knisiec. E. F.—Chicago Lee. M. W.-—Chtcal;o McCahc. J. A.—Chicago Meyer. F. J.—Peoria. 111. Muellner. J . F.—South Bend Olczak. E. A.—South Bend 0-Neil, P. F.—Rochelle. 111. 
The No tre Dame Alui 
go! He expected, when he ^vrote in May, to spend • the Summer extem­ing in one of the Chicago hospitals and was eagerly awaiting the ex­perience. 
\m
SPE 193 4 Ja™M Moscow, 2320 N. Lawndale 
Ave., Chicago, III. 

PrekoHitz. A. S.—South Bend Reuland. R. G.—Green Bay, Wis. Robison, W\ R.—Des Moines. Iowa Ruppe. A. T.—South Bend Sexton, W. L.—Indianapolis. Ind. Slcphan. E. A.—New York. N. Y. Stewart. W. A.—Cortland. N. Y. Teske. L. W.. C.S.C.—Notre Dame Troy. D. E.—South Bend Wiatrowski. F. L.—South Bend. 
Ed Stanton and Cy Rapier are both employed by the General Chemical Company in Chicago and reside at 7807 South Shore Drive. 
John Hoyl was graduated this year from the Fordham Law School. 
Rutseli O'Shea, '35, representing the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insur­ance Company in Cairo, Illinois, is residing at 2027 Washington Avenue, and is very happy and successful in the business. 
William P. Hunter. '33, of New Madrid, Missouri, is foreman on a construction job, working with the Driver Construction Compan y at Cape Girardeau, Missouri. 
George Thomas Coady, of 3 Park Drive, Charleston, West Virginia, writes: 
Just a line concerning some of the fellows of '33 whose names haven't appeared in the ALUMNUS. 
Jack Carnes is employed by the Electric Auto-Lite Company, Toledo. 
Jack Soisson's engineering degree has taken him into a coal mine of the Kingston Pocahontas Company at Springton, West Virginia. 
Phil Darmody is playing with elec­tricity for the Illinois Central Rail­road. His address is 233 North Kol­mar .\venue, Chicago. 
Jim Freeman is living in his home town of Winamac, Indiana. He will sell you insurance, loan you money, (maybe) write deeds, bring abstracts up to date or what-have-you ? 
Yours truly is a production re­search engineer with Carbide & Car­bon Chemicals Corporation, South Charleston, West Virginia. 
How about Fee Lennartz, as ex­prexy of the A.I.E.E., getting off that milk wagon long enough to send in a few lines concerning the E.E. of '33. 
Jack Cary has just iinished his third year of medicine at Loyola University, Chicago. One more to 
Commencement registi-ants: 
Abraham. E. 5L—Notre Dame Brady. F. J.—Chicago Brugger. L. J.—Erie, Pa. Cahill. M. R.~South Bend Carey. T. E.—Cleveland. Ohio Ccmey, O. J.—Cleveland. Ohio Chenal. R. C.—Cincinnati. Ohio Clauder, J. A.—^MihvauJtee. "Wis. Coyle. M. T.—T.-iw.-is City, Mich. Curran. M. J.—Chicago Dobinsky. J. E.—Chicago Fesler. J. C.—Danville, Ohio Fitzmaurice. E. J.—Winchester, Ind. Fitzpatrick. J. T.—Bridgeport. III. Grimes. T. R.—Niles. Mich. Hamilton. R. L.—Racine, Wis. Hayes, J. C—Gary. Ind. Hess, J. P.—Chillicothe. Ohio Hiogel. A. J.—Conway, .-Vrk. Howard. C. P.—South Bend Humbrccht. H. J.—Ft. Wayne. Ind. 
Kelly, B. K.—South Bend 
Kenefake, E. \V.—Notre Dame 
Klosinski. T. A.—South Bend Lavengood. F. L.—South Bend Linton. F. L.—Chicago Locher, R. C.—Monticello, Iowa -Vatthys. F. W.—Chicago McAloon. V. G.—South Bend 
•McNemey. J L.—Elgin. 111. McNichols. C. G.—Chicago McShane. J. A.—Chicago Morrison, J, R.—Chicago Moscow. J. V.^Chicago Mo>Tiihan. T. C—Bntavia. N. Y. Mullen. J. I.—South Bend Murphy. G. E.—South Bend O'Malley. T. J.—Chicago Quinn. C. F.—Long Island. N. Y. Rochcleau. G. A.—Chicago Ross. J. R.—Lynbrook. N. Y. Schenkel. N. J.—Ft. Wayne. Ind. Templeton, J. G.—South Bend Tsiolis. T. J.—South Bend Tsiolis. W. P.—South Bend Turner. R. jr.—Malone. N. Y. Vcttel. L. W.—South Bend Wallace. 3. R.—New York. N. Y. WicdI. M. F.—South Bend Young. C. A.—Wilmington. Del. 
Joe Wattere, who iinished in den­tistry at Georgetown this year, was editor of the Dental School paper, the Georgetown Dental Journal. 
Lee Kramer, of Peoria, Illinois, and Maurice Garland, of Kewanee, Illinois, were in the Notre Dame re­gion over Memorial Day week-end to visit with Maurice's brother, Ray, '37. Lee is manager of the Peoria office of Dun & Bradstreet, and Maurice is with the Walworth Man­ufacturing Company. 
Progressing rapidly in his news­paper work, Anthony Pugliese has been transferred from New York to Columbus, Ohio. In the latter city he was assistant state manager of the International News- Service. 
JAREERS IN INSURANCE FOR 
"OLLEGE  GRADUATES  ^  
NATIONAL  
COLLEGIATE  PERSONNEL  BUREAU  

LOW COST PURCHASE PLAN 
HERE'S your opportunity! Genuine latest model New Royal Portables. Only a few cents a day. Use coupon. 
SENSATIONAL! . . . With Touch Control you can instantly adapt the key-tension to your exact finger pres­sure. Type easier than you write by hand! 
FREE! Handsome, sturdy case; also new system of typing — quickly learned at home. 
MAIL TODAY I ACT QUICKLY! 
Royal Typewriter Co^ XnCx Dept. GG-66 . 2 Park Avenue, New York City. Please give mc details concerning special purchase plan on New Royal Portable. Quote trade-in allowance on my . 
Typewriter, serial number 
Name 
Gty_ 
10^ 5 Fraaldyn C. Hochreiter, 722 Ijvmg­*•'*'•' ston haU. Columbia Unir.. N.Y. City. 
Fresh from a grand '35 reunion on the campus, Hoch sings his fare­well, after an exceedingly successful year in working for you and the ALUMNUS. He says: 
A year has slipped by but not without a fitting and proper finale. We speak of the '35ers gala reunion. Unofficial though it may have been, nevertheless, we did manage to adopt the spirit of the old timers in our own small and unpretentious way. 
Under the guiding hand of "past­
prexie" Proctor, plans were well 
under way when your scribe i-eached 
the campus. "What a sight awaited 
our eyes when we finally made the 
old cab stand! A beautiful circular 
drive, cement walks, tall trees and 
green lawn had replaced the old 
road and cinder paths, and muddy 
fields. Imagine, grass in front of 
Dillon and Alumni, instead of day 
and weeds! There are criss-cross 
walks, straight walks, and crooked 

walks. And best of all, they are not ' cinders. 
Headquarters for '35 were in Dil­lon Hall. "We had the north wing on the first floor practically to ourselves and Tom Proctor was registrar for the Hall. 
"We made the trip ^\•ith Bill 
Schmidt and. Jim McDevitt. After 
"signing in," the caf was our first stop. There we came across most of those of '35 who remained at Alma Mater to continue their studies. There were: Luke Kelly, Tony Sco­laro. Bob Simmons, Harry Ruby, Tom Graves, John Locker, Art San­dusky, John Logan and a few more five-year men taking their law de­grees with the class of '36. 
Looking over the Hall register later, we noted that already a good number of our flock had arrived. "With us in our wing we found Gene 
Witchger, Tom La Londe, Bob Scott, Jim CoUeran, Mart Henedele, £d IGl­murray and Harry Gafney. Before 
the evening was out, George Mack, Bill Coen, Frank Shay and Pete Hess had joined the merry throng. 

At the brilliant new Oliver coiTee shop we found Pat Fisher, Bill Burk­hardt, Joe Flynn, Claude Tourek, Frank Leonard and Ja<Jc Meister. 
Next morning our register was in­creased with more men from the Mid­"West, Barney English, John Cor­rigan, Jim Corrigan, Jim Cronin, Charlie Schill, John Pogue, John Hallberg, Jack Shodron, John Berry, Kitty Gorman, Jerry Gushing, Bill Bembrock, and Tom "Welch. 
Some of the men did not journey to Dillon to establish their residence, but, remained in town where they thought the conviviality would he more aggressive. Had they joined 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
our ranks on campus, they would have discovered that -we were not far behind. 
Among those who did not find their way to Dillon and bunked either in Alumni (after Dillon was filled) or in town were: George De­metrio, John Annas, Jim Nolan, Jack Darcy, Jim Dillon, John Krebser, Charlie Williamsen, Jerry Doyle, Gene O'Brien, Don Love, Frank Matthys, Paul O'Neil, Ed "Vyzral, Joe McCabe and Ed Kirby. 
That about concludes the roll-call. We had a column written in New York before we left, but, just before making our exodus for the West word came that we ought to confine our remarks to the reunion week-end. Hence, we left said copy in 722 Livingston. We do have some dope on a few of those attending the gala days, so we will impart that to you and then "sign off." 
One of our number returned for more than a reunion. Charlie Wil­liamsen paid a visit to the Log Chapel Saturday morning and took to him­self a wife. 
Jack Shodron drove up for the week-end in his new Ford from Peoria where he is working for the Caterpillar Tractor Company. With Jack down there is John Krebser. John did not make Notre Dame until Sunday. 
Gene Witchger is working in the 
home town, Saginaw, for Wilcox-Hich, manufacturers of auto parts, and a branch of Eaton Axle. 
Bill Schmidt has journeyed to the Adirondacks for the summer and is on a bridge project in Rouses Point, New York, for Hendrickson, the New York City outfit. 
Jim Corrigan told US that he is 
now connected with the Securities Company of Milwaukee, working in the ofiicel Yes, John is still doing interior decorating with Gimbels. 

John Busichio returned to Notre Dame to pick up the degree that he left last year. 
Jim CoUeran has gone to Cleveland where he is doing himself proudly as an accountant. 
Harry Gafney is Working in a 

garage in his native Massachusetts town. 
Pat Fisher who stayed on at school to continue his studies in the law, has been elected President of the Law Club for next year. 
Jim Cronin has dramatic talent. He did a bit in the American Radi­ator sales school show. 
Frank Leonard is with a window 

, shade company in Chi. Our apologies go to Joe Flynn 
June, 1936 
who, in great detail, gave us his spe­cific business connections, which in­cludes a new car. It was a coupe and the radio was swell. 
Chet Smith, who had been woi"k­ing with the Indiana-Michigan Elec­tric Company, has left the South Bend region and is now with the Morris Plan Bank in New York City. Chet is living at the Taft Hotel on 7th Avenue at 50th Street. We ran into Chet early in May when he was East on his vacation. 
You, the class of '35 have made such a thing possible this year for your scribe and for yourselves. We told you in our first column that we appreciated your confidence and that we would endeavor to our utmost to make good the selection that was yours. Without your aid the strides that were made could never have been realized. With j'our help we made a mark, we hope, in class his­tory. 
Don't permit the Summer to sever that which has come to be a steel bond between us. We look forward to hearing from you all as the months pass. Our response to your letters has heen dilatory lately, but, all communications will be answered. For ourself we can only say in the sincerest manner "We were proud to represent you and to keep you a close - knit fraternity through our meager efforts." In appreciation for your cooperation "thanks a million." Our best wishes we extend for a great Summer. 
And here are a few, upon whom the Hochreiter eyes didn't happen to light, who registered for the week­end: 

Boyle. J. M.—Gary. Ind. Cordaro. J. T.—^Notre Dame Davis, I. V.—Fonchatoula, La. Feijrus. P. A.—South Bend Hartcr. V. a—South Bond Kane. M. G.—Niles. Mich. Klaibcr. V. K.—BolTolo. N. Y. O'Shca. R. J.—Cairo. Dl. Pendercast. J. P.—Chicago Pick. J. W.—Chicapj Prczebel. R. P.—Cleveland Hts.. Ohio Schaser. R. J.—Wilmette. HI. Smyth. J. U.—Chicaso Wunderly. H. L.—South Bcjid 
Ralph Gauthier is employed by the Certain-Teed Company as assistant chemical engineer in East St. Louis, 
.Illinois and is residing at 537 North 13th Street. 
From Mexico, Missouri, Fred Mor­ris writes: 
The Alumni Club of Mexico (Morris & Hogan) are still carrying on as usual. During the past basket-hall season. Red, playing for the Junior Chamber of Commerce, scored two points and injured three of his own teammates. Since baseball start­ed, his hitting has heen perfect. Out of 20 times at bat he has struck out 17 times. Just thought I'd give you this choice bit of news. 
in the only low-priced car with the KNEE ACTION GLIDING RIDE!* 
Perfectcd ITijiIraiilic Brakes give you and your family the peace  
of mind resulting from  maximum  safety.  A  Solid Steel  one- 
piece Turret Top keeps you cooler in summer, warmer in winter  
and safer at all times.  Genuine Fisher Jfo Draft Ventilation en­ 
ables you  to *^scoop in** great waves of  refreshing  air  on the  
hottest days.  An economical High-Compression  Yalve-in-Head  
MASTER OC LUXE SPflKT SEOAH  Engine saves you money wth  every thrilling mile. And Shock­ 
proof Steering* makes driving more nearly effortless than you  
LH E new ChoTolct for 1936 brings ijou the. worliTs most com*  ever  thought it could he. . . . Decide now to go  places  more  
fortahle  ride at tlie lowest price.... Ifs the only car in its price  comfortably  this  summer in  a  new  1936 Chevrolet ^tAo  onlij  
range witli  the famous Knee-Artion "WTieels* anil  inanij  other  complete  low-priced  car!  
features 'whicli are equally hiixiortant to your comfort.... N^^v  CUEVROLE T  MOTOK  COMPANY,  DETHOIT.  MICUICA N  

NEW PERFECTED HYDRAULIC BRAKES • SOLID STEEL ONE-PIECE TURRET TOP RODIES ro«EC<.»o«ic«. IMPROVED GLIDING KNEE-ACTION RIDE* • GENUINE FISHER NO DRAFT VENTILA-Tuvromiim TION • HIGH-COMPRESSION VALVE-IN-HEAO ENGINE - SHOCKPROOF STEHING* 
'AVAILABLE IN MASTER DELUXE MODELS OKLY. KKEE-ACTIO,\, S20 ADDITIONAL. GENERAL MOTORS INSTALL.VENr PLAN—MONTHLY PAYMENTS TO SUIT YOUR PURSE. 
CHEVROLET 
A GEN£RAI. MOTORS VALUE 
IITA LiGGcrr & MYERS TOUACCO CO. 










