The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
Vol. 20 No. 7 
Warner, New Haven, Conn., secretary, and Ed Hickey, Grosse Pointe, Mich., 
UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS :-. :-. 
COACHES IN SERVICE 
Notre Dame lost three coaclies to the War recently when John F. Druze, Uni­versity end coach; Joseph A. McArdle, line coach; and William P. Mahoney, varsity track coach, left for Annapolis training and commissions in the Navy under the physical fitness program of Lieutenant Commander Thomas Hamil­ton. 
John and Joe were sworn into service as lieutenants, junior grade. Both played under Frank Leahy at Fordham and were with him when Leahy was head coach at Boston in 1939 and 1940. They came to Notre Dame with him in 1941. 
Bill Mahoney, the University's 25­year-old track coach, was sworn into the Naval Reserve May 12, as an ensign. He received his A.B. degree in 1939 from Notre Dame, and his LL.B. in 1940. He captained tlie varsity track team in 1938 and took over the track team upon the death of the late John Nicholson. 
Ed "Moose" Krause, '34, has succeed­ed McArdle as line coach, and Wayne Millner, '36, has succeeded Druze as end coach. Both men were here for spring practice. Prof. Elvin E. Handy, of the Department of Physical Education, who has assisted with track coaching for several years, took over Mahoney's du­ties as head coach of track. Prof. Handy, a graduate of the University of Iowa, has been on the Notre Dame faculty since 1931. 
William J. Cemey, '25, former mem­ber of the Notre Dame coaching staff, is also in the Navy physical training program under Lieutenant Commander Hamilton. He was commissioned as lieu­tenant, senior grade, on May 12, and reported the following week to Annapolis for the 30-day indoctrination period. Bill's wife and seven children are in South Bend for the present. 

AMBASSADOR HAYES. LL.D. "21 
Dr. Carlton J. H. Hayes, LL.D. '21, noted Catholic educator and historian, was in April nominated by President Roosevelt to be Ambassador to Spain, succeeding Alexander W. Wedddl, who retired recently because of ill health. Dr. Hayes has been Seth Low Professor of History at Columbia since 1936, and has long been recognized as one of the coun­try's leading historians. He is the author of numerous works tracing the origin of modern nationalism. 

BAQERIOLOGISTS ON CAMPUS 
Notre Dame was the site of the annual spring meeting for the Indiana branch of the Society of American Bacteriologists, held April 18 in the University biology building. 
Members of the Notre Dame staff pre­senting papers were: Edward Foley, re­search technician of the bacteriology laboratories; Mrs. Simon B. Cook, Uni­versity medical technologist; P. C. Trex­ler, research associate; J. A. Reyniers, director of the University bacteriology laboratories; and James Casper, techni­cal assistant. A tour through the labora­tories of bacteriology, featuring demon­strations of germ-free, micrurgical and Red Cross infection techniques and ap­paratus followed the presentation of papers. 
* 


NEW CLASS OFFICERS 
Recently elected class officers for the new school year beginning May 28 are: Jack Tallett, of North Chicago, 111., chosen senior class president; John Mur­ray, Burlington, Vt., vice-president; Jack treasurer. 
Dick Doermer, Fort Wayne, Ind., was elected junior class president; Frank Vignola, River Forest, 111., vice-presi­dent; Frank Stumpf, of Richmond, Va., secretai-y; Frank Curran, treasurer. 
The sophomore class elected Frank Cusick, of Providence, R. I., as presi­dent; Francis Crowley, Dallas, Tex., and Robert Crowley, Hingham, Mass., vice-president and secretary, respectively. Treasurer for this summer's class of sophomores is James Reagan, of Lorain, Ohio. 

WITH THE NAVY AT N. D. 
Two alumni are back on the campus in the Navy's new program: Francis P. Butorac, '31, a chief specialist handling physical education, and Robert T. Oster­man, '41, here as a storekeeper. 
Frank Gaul, 'Z6, a lieutenant, junior grade, now at Annapolis, was until re­cently on the campus in charge of the physical education program for the naval trainees. Gaul and Osterman played with the Old Timers in the Var­sity-Old Timers game on May 2. 
John J. Martin, '40, was in the first class of trainees who came to the cam­pus. Several other aliunni are in the second class, according to the best re­
(Continued on page 47) 

Lay tmslees fathered at the Unirerxity on May 8 for their annual iprinf meeting and had this picture taken at the main entrance to the Rodme HemoriaJ. In the front row, left to risht, are Peter C. ReiUy; John H. Neeson, '03; Frank E. Herinc. "98; Byron V. Kanaley, '01; Very Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, '99, provincial; Frank C. Walker, '09, and Rev. Huch O'Donnell, C.S.C.. '16, president. 
Second row: Frank W. Lloyd, University comptroller, Walter Duncan, '12; William J. Coribett, John 
J. O'Brien, Rev. John J. CavanaUKh, C.S.C., vice president; Charles T. Fisher, Joseph A. LaFortune, '16. 
Third row: Terence B. Cossrove, '06; George L. O'Brien, •93; C. Roy McCanna, John P. Murphy, 12; Brother Albinns, C.S.C, University treasurer. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This masazine is published montUy from October to June, inclusive (e:ccept January), by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1, 1939, at the Postoffice. Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG. 75 . Editor; WILUAM R. DOOLEY, "26. Managing Editor 
Vol. 20 MAY. 1942 No. 7 
98th Commencement Great Despite War 
Outstanding Speeches; Large Class; Presence of 
Navy Trainees; Two Large Reunion Classes; Ath­
letic Wins Combine to Please Surprising Crowds 
When Notre Dame's accelerated aca­demic program demanded that Com­mencement be held on May 10, much of the hope for appropriate observation of the 1942 graduation was abandoned. 
Events of May 8-9-10 proved that this willing sacrifice of ambitions was not entirely necessary. In content, in crowd, in enthusiasm, in significance, in ramifi­cations, the 1942 Commencement held its own against the outstanding records of its 97 predecessors. 
Largest crowd was the Commencement exercises on Sunday afternoon when 553 degrees were awarded and the Hon. J. Edgar Hoover, director of the F.B.I., spoke before a capacity crowd of 5,500 in the University Gymnasium. 
Almost as large was the Baccalaureate Mass crowd, assembled in the Gymnasi­um in the morning of Sunday, to hear the brilliant sermon of Most Rev. George 
L. Leech, D.D., bishop of Harrisburg. 
Most seriously affected crowd, in size, was the alumni. In spite of the record-breaking reunion groups of the 1917 and 1922 Classes, total alumni registration and banquet attendance was only one-third that of 1941. However, in view 
of general conditions, the large number of younger alumni in service, and the ina­bility of the Univer­sity to house the alumni on the cam­pus, the crowd was up to expectations. And, most important, 
(Continued on page 20) ^ 
Upper picture: The 

traditional flag cere­
mony takes on addi­
tional solemnity and 
significance as the Na­
\'y oSiciates in this war 
year. The Sac presented 
by the Claw of '41 is 
lowered and the Bnz of 
the Class of '42 is aboat 
to lie raised. Center picture: Many 
well-known Notre Dame 
priests are in the Bac­
calaureate Mass proces­
sion as it leaves the 
Main Bnildinr. Toward 
the camera (starting at the bottom of the steps) are Fatiiers John McGinn, 
Frank Cavanaugh, Thomas Steiner, Huih O'Donnell, 
William Carey. Bishop John F. O'Hara, Fathers 
John Cavanaugh, Eugene Bnrke, Bishop Leech, 
Fathers Joseph Muckenthaler. Leo Gorman, and 
William Connor. Lower picture:_ Bishop Leech 
preaches the Baccalaureate Sermon in the Gym. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 



WAR CHANGES ALUMNI 
POSTPONEMEN T of the annual election of officers, and 
the changing of the Association year to a calendar year 
to facilitate relations with the University and our program 
generally, were the two major decisions which followed the 
1942 Commencement. 

You are familiar with the splendid start that President Har­ry F. Kelly and the Alumni Board made a year ago in laundiing a program in conjunction with the University's Centenary. 
The program was discussed in sessions with the Alumni Board and with many Club presidents, at Notre Dame, in New York, and in Chicago. Agreement with the outlined plan was general, and enthusiasm was universaL 
This widespread contaa with the alumni, and the reception given by the Clubs seemed to have ojiened the way for a new alumni era in keeping with the imminent centennial observance. 
Pearl Harbor's tragedy had many lesser ramifications. 
The alumni program was one of them. Immediately, the pro­gram of die Association and the program of the University about yAoAi it revolved, took on new elements, not the least of which was that of uncertainty. 
PROGRAM RE-ALIGNED 
It was not, during the ensuing five months, that either Notre Dame or Harry Kelly was in any doubt as to the merits of the University's program, or the Alumni Association's plan to support it more adequately. But under the pressure of present and total war even projects with merit had to realign themselves in relation to the national scene. 
And in the realignment of our particular program, five mondis was literally lost in artion. But they were not lost eiitirely, radier invested in intelligent study of our adaptation to the imanged American picture. And from this period several constructive moves have emanated. 
The new three-semester academic program of Notre Dame puts die University on a January-December year, as against the former academic June to June. We have held for a long time that the Association's work would be clarified if it could be enconq>assed widiin a calendar year. Consequently, all. logic points to die ad<^tation of our year to the new broad basis, so that the Association year will begin January 1, 1943 and end December 31,1943. 
With this thought came another — Since Hany Kelly's administration had suffered some mcmths of suspended animation through forces beyond its control, and since the processes of election aie complex, Iqg^c again pointed to the continuation of the present Board in office imtil the beginning of the new | fiscal year. At Commencement, Harry Kelly, strong against * any idea of succeeding himself, consented to continue to work on tbe program started last summer, in which he is so interested, '* on condition diat die regular election of officers be held and : a new president assume office on January 1. 
NO SLOWING UP 

The ALUMNU S is still a litdc imdedded in its sdiedule. The May Commencement permits the current issue to cover the content usually found in June. The June issue, because this one is late, will also be late, and will find the interesting new summer semester in session. From diete on, it is probable that we will not again take the long time-out between June and '' October, welcome as that period was for catching up. 
Travel, limited in the past, is even more out of the ques­tion under the new conditions. Consequendy, the Alumni ' Office must rely more and more upon the prompt and efficient coc^ieraticm d alimini. Club and Class officers to keep our > program active. (Yes, we'll try to be prompt and efficient, too.) ; 
Placement woik through die Alumni Office has practically { yielded entirely to the point that present demands are beyond , its scope. So few men are unemployed, so many men are in j service the demand for skilled men is so impossible to meet, | and the urgency of employment is so much greater than tlie ^ facilities of iSx Office as a clearing house, that William R. Dooley, '26, in charge, has reduced his procedure in that field to a formal recognition of the unbalanced supply-and-demand situations as diey arise. 
In view of die imminent lowering of the draft age, one of the great works alimini can do, arid (Hie which was formerly stimulated yAxacvtx travel, permitted it, is the sending of quali­fied students to Notre Dame. This is not tmpatriotic, what­ever die draft laws may be. It is a pronouncement of cur govenunent many times, it b the experience of the nations longer at war, and it is the dictate of reason, that the nation constantly now, and increasingly in the future, needs trained leadership-The colleges must continue to operate to provide this leader­ship. And it is vital to the survival of democracy that those colleges closest to its princ^les in their teaching also survive. 
So our alumni pro-am is not stopped. It is not weakened. It is at the door of its first really great (^iportunity in the histwy of Notie Dame. The door is already open. All we need to'do is to come in. 
jAssociATiON 
T^EFENSE, or Savings Bonds, as the medium through which alumni can exercise the privileges of both patriotism and philandm^y, and discharge the obligations that inhere in dti-­' zen and alumnus, will keynote the alumni financial participation in the Centenary of Notre £)ame. 
In one of the finest addresses ever given to the alumni by a president of the Association, Harry F. Kelly stirred the alumni banquet audience with a picture of the opportunity which Notre Dame and her present emergency now give alumni to be of service. 
The general program of increased alumni giving, in a cam­paign which will realize a large amount aimually as a "living endowment" for Notre Dame, is known to alumni. It was laimched last summer and emphasized as it was confirmed by 
. several meetings of Qub ofiicers during the Fall. 
The war, which interrupted the program generally, has altered the aspect of alumni giving to some extent. 
PATRIOTS AND BENEFACTORS 
Recognizing the fact that alumni must lead the parade of patriots-in the purchase of Government bonds, and that the average alumnus income will be taxed, literally and figuratively. President Kelly advanced the thought that the University would be happy to accept bonds as ^ts, to suf^ly the offsetting re­sources in the present serious curtailment of income. 
Series E bonds, on sale at all postoffices and banks, are individually registtred, and non-transferable. The oiJy way they can be given to Notre Dame is to register them in the name of an individual at Notre Dame, such as "Rev. Hu ^ O'Doimell, C.S.C.," or some other person, all of whom are limited to possession of ^5,000 of this Series in any calendar year issue. 
In Series F, there is an ^18.50 bond, which matures in 12 years with ^25 face value. This bond can be registered immedi­ately in the name of The University of Notre Dame du Lac, and the University can hold up to J(50,000 (cost) in this Series. 
In Series G, bonds can also be registered in the name of the University of Notre Dame du Lac immediately. These are bonds that are bought at par and mature at par after 12 years, with interest paid semi-atmually at the rate of 2.5%. 

Application for F and G bonds will be taken at any bank, althou^ the bonds themselves in these Series are sold only at Federal Reserve Banks or branches, or spedially designated agencies. 
 PROGRAM 
As icgatds quotas, adoiowle^pnents, etc., gifts dl U. S. Savings Bonds will be admowledgEd at maturi^ values. 
OTHER GIFTS 

While the B<Mids offer a temaikable opportuni^ to mult^y the benefits of alumni aq)eiidituies, odier ^fts will be tecdved as a part of die all-out, total effort to bring Notre Dame into its second 100 years with proper stqiport ixaoi ahuhm and friends. The eme^ency demands success for survi\nd. 
&naller donations wiU.be accepted. One private in die Army, sent in ^1, widi the si^gesticm dut a "Buck-A-Month" Cub could be very productive. Multqily diat idea by some 2,000 men in service, and if they did nothing else it would carry a big share of die year's goal 
Increasing tax rates ate affecting stodc and bond holdings generally, and all {phases of the capital investment of noany alumnL Transfer of many of these holdings would actually benefit the alumnus, or, in practically all instances, represent an actual sacrifice much less dian die face value of the heading (which would be received and acknowlec^ed in our rampign as die latter). 
The University, widi die aid of die Board of Lay Tiu^eesi, is in a positi<m to administer these gifts wisely. And the service rendered by the income from die lunited endowment and from gifts HataAf established at Notre Dame is, as alumni know, usually far beyond any use to wfaidi an individual in­vestor can put the same amount. 
METHODS 

We are still working on methods. Basically, the method or methods we want are diose v^idi will reach every Notre Dame man with the fact that Notte Dame needs additional sappaiX, and diat NOW is die time for YOU to GIVE. 
We hope to use Gass <xganization. 
We have alrea^ secured die cooperation of many Oubs. 
You know, ftom die education of years past, why Notre Dame needs support The limited endowment, die "irtajlfd income, the oblation to sustain progress, the greater oU^a­tion to ccmtinue progress, the desire to keep the door <^ die canqxis open to die boy of limited means, die new and vital urgency of preserving Notre Dame's way of training for Amer­ica's way of life, the magnificent accounting of stewardship «f the Cotigregati<m of Wskf Cross as the first 100 years come to . a dose,—these diii^ you know. 
Notre Dame's doors haive always opened to poor or rich; this opportunity likewise is open to all—no gift too latge, and no gift unappreciated. 
Summer Semester Begins May 28 
The first full summer semester in the history of Notre Dame opened on May 28. 
With enrollment of almost 2,000 stu­dents in the new session, adapted to accelerate the training of young men at the request of the government, this 15­week period will give to Notre Dame and to South Bend an unprecedented summer of activity. With 1,100 to 1,200 U.S. navy trainees sharing the campus during this period, the University will be operating on normal peak load. 
Indications that enrollment would be curtaQed because of transportation diffi­culties are not supported by analysis of summer registration. 
Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., Re^s­trar, reports that some 250 new students, mostly freshmen, came from 36 of the 48 states. Donald J. Easley, director of student accounts, states that in the regis­tration for returning upper classmen there was no indication that the 48-state representation would be altered. 
All except 40 faculty members will teach during the summer semester. 
Summer enrollment decrease is attrib­uted largely to three factors: Call of many undergraduates to military service, the economic demands on family income or the economic attraction of jobs, and the fact that high schools in many in­stances are not out this year in time to permit graduates to enroll. 
All departments of the University will function during the 15-week semester. 
Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross will occupy Zahm hall during the summer. Freshmen will occupy Breen-Phillips, St. Edward's and Brownson; sophomores will occupy Dillon, Badin and Carroll; juniors will occupy Cava­naugh and Walsh, and the seniors will occupy Alumni and the traditional senior sanctum, Sorin. 
Activities for the summer semester have not yet been announced but the Scholastic, student weekly, will be pub­lished for the first time in its history-during this summer period. Other extra­curricular activities in the absence of conflict with war effort, will undoubtedly follow suit. 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following pfts to the Centenary Fund: 
Alumni Participation 

Anonymous, Member of the Class of '97 (U.S. Savings Bonds) $1,350 Anonymous, Member of the Class of '40 150 (This completes pledge of $1,000) Anonymous, Member of the Class of '07 100 
(First payment on pledge of $1,000) Anonymous, Member of the Class of '11 100 Thomas A. McLaughlin, '16, Detroit . 100 Louis C. Fritch, '19, South Bend 100 Lieut. William J. Corbett, Jr., '27, Chicago 100 Anonymous, Member of the Class of '25 (U.S. Savings Bonds) 100 James R. Dooley, '22, North Andover, Mass 100 Anonjrmous, Member of the Class of '34 50 Rev. Charles J. Williams, '18, Rantoul, 111 50 Eli M. Abraham, '34 (U.S. Savings Bond) 25 Edward G. Huff, '40, Camp Louis Obispo, Calif. . 5 
Friends of the University 

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Corbett, Sr., Chicago ..$5,000 Anonymous .. 1,000 
E. Lowitz, New York City .. 80 
J. M. Reichenstein, Dallas, Texas 60 
J. Harold Sunderlin, South Bend 50 
HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C, President of the University. 
PROFESSOR BENiTZ DIES 
Prof. William L. Benitz, for 42 
years a teacher in the College of 
En^neering at Notre Dame, died 
on June 1 after.a month's illness. 
He was 69 years old. .His death 
followed by only six months the 
death of his long-time friend and 

associate, Professor Edward J. 
Maums, who died on Nov. 26. Both 

had retired from active teaching in 
1939. 
A complete story on Professor 

Benitz will be in the next issue of 
the ALUMNUS. 
1,100 OFFICERS AT N. D. 

A six weeks "recruit" period began May 18 at Notre Dame, for 1,100 ensigns and lieutenants in the naval training school on the campus. Their arrival fol­lowed immediately the departure of nearly 800 young men who had success­fully completed the V-7 indoctrination course, which began the week of April 12. 
The present recruits in training at the University are outstanding men in their respective fields who were selected by the Navy Department for commissions as ensig^ns and as lieutenants, junior grade and senior grade. They will be thoroughly grounded at Notre Dame in basic navy procedure and customs. Many of tiie men are specialists in radio, engi­neering, electricity and Diesel engines. There are also numerous business exec­utives, factory managers and trade an­alysts among them. 
Upon completing their training here, many will be sent to ships and to shore bases to release experienced war ship officers who have had to remain in more specialized fields because of the lack of trained men to handle such technical or business functions. 
A program of intensive physical train­ing is carried out for the recruits, in addition to their classroom work. Eleven physical instructors give them work-outs in games and otherwise to reduce waist­lines to Navy requirements. In addition, the recruits are drilled and marched like rookie seamen. 
While at school the officer-trainees wear the undress khaki uniforms of commissioned officers and chief petty of­ficers with the exception that they wear the overseas caps to distinguish them from the school officers, who wear the visored caps. On week-end liberty the recruits are permitted to wear their regulation oflRcers' uniforms, with rank­ing insignias on shoulders and sleeves. 
The Commencement Address 
By The Honorable J. Edsar Hoover, LLD., '42 
Director of Federal Bureau of Investigation Stresses Unity of Mind, Soul and Body in a Democracy; Praises Notre Dame Men for their Part in FBI Pirogram. 
You men of Notre Dame University, with hundreds of thousands of other young men standing on the threshold of life, face a future marked with trav­ail and uncertainty. You face difficult times. You face a challenge to prove yourselves worthy of the shining shield of spiritual strength and moral upright­ness with which your University has endowed yon. 
The history of civilization has been marked by periods of stagnation and growth, of war and peace, of depression and prosperity. From periods of uncer­tainty have come opportunities to profit by the mistakes of the past in building a better future. Our allegiance to each other and to succeeding generations re­quires the muster of full strength to see each tomorrow through with courage and determination and with confidence that right can still make might. 
Answer Is Not Easy 

Today, as you leave college, you ask, "What is my mission in life and what can I expect?" The answer is not easy, but of paramount importance at the mo­ment is the necessity to win this war for America, to insure that opportunity and freedom may prevail. Unless we do, America faces inevitable doom. 
In searching for the answers to your questions, seek the facts. Lack of accu­rate information is responsible for more mistakes of judgment than erroneous , reasoning. The present state of world conflict is well known. Tomorrow's his­torians are best equipped to write of its causes. What is all important is the fact that not since those dark days at Valley Forge, when the immortal Washington prayed for victory, have our ideals and principles upon which our government is based been so dangerously threatened. The horror of Nazi destruction, Japanese plunder, and the Fascist echo of the Hitler call is no longer a fiendish night­mare but a grim reality that ruthlessly reveals our unhappy plight. There can. be no middle gpround. We will either emerge, victorious or submerge to a state of serfdom. We are in the war— 
we Americans who love peace—^but no matter what happens in the future we shall always keep our heads high for God and Country. 

Bed-blooded Americanism, typified by the valorous men of Notre Dame, will' not permit our Nation to bow in defeat. True defense of a democracy comes from unity of mind, soul and body. American patriotism is inseparable from religion; is strengthened by fervent religious ex­pressions and devotions, and Americans should be more and more religious—rev­erently and ardently and sincerely re­ligious — for the purpose of carrying, through to victory in this war. By plac­ing our faith and trust in God, and rising as one in righteous wrath with every weapon we can muster, democracy will vanquish.the Godless forces of dic­tators. 
From now on, until victory is achieved and a righteous peace made secure, there can be no deviation or compromise. Ap­peasement, like a dreaded plague bron^t by Munich-minded men who surrendered to wrong, must be forever quarantined from America. Cannons are booming. 
airplanes zooming and bombs are crash­ing on a hundred fronts, thousands of miles from home. But the war also has reached our very shores. The death-dealing torpedoes of Axis submarines are sending many a supply ship to the bottom of the ocean within sight of either coast 
Increasingly, our homes are proudly sending forth sons to the many battle­fronts. With a spirit traditionally Amer­ican, many of the members of this grad­uating dass await the opportunity to avenge our brave men who have fallen on the battlefronts. But in our eagerness to share their sacrifices, let us not for­get that the success or failure of onr armed and naval forces, as always, win be predetermined on the homefront The gallant defenders of Bataan and Correg­idor proved this. As long as they had food and even a little rest they could resist the Jap attacks. But once cut off, their disintegrating strength was con­quered, not by superior foes, but by natural elements. It was the flesh and not the spirit whidi weakened. 
Given the weapons of warfare, our 

J. Edgar RMrer CMUMBCOMmt «eakcr. i»««l»» Ik* hmaaar Dadir •( Lam fcam fnai Bar. Hogh O'Donnell, C.S.C, as Haat. Key. Joki F. O'Hara, C8.C aai .FiaiMaar Paal Fcaha laak aa. 
country's soldiers, sailors and marines will vanquish the enemy. But they must be giyen every needful help. This is not the time for petty bickerings or internal strife The day has passed when America can tolerate the ideological demoralizing cry, "Not a man, not a cent, not a gan for . . . military preparations!", heard not so long ago. Today, that is treason. Nor can we as a Nation tolerate the echoes of the Axis boast that what we need is a Hitler in America, nor the in­sidious plea that the Kising Sun of Japan heralds a better day for some Americans. 
Free Speech Fruit of Democracy 

Free speech is the incomparable fruit of Democracy which not only has the right but the duty to defend itself. Un­less Democracy jealously defends itself, the free speech and liberty that Ameri­cans in every generation have died for will become a meaningless mockery, a tragic monory in a hapless world of subjugation. Would it not have been better had a few Quislings and potential Fifth Columiiists been deprived of their license rather than to place millions in a state of unendurable slavery in con­quered countries? The happenings of the past, coupled with reliable information of the present, iraint to the fact that the real Fifth Column does not reveal itself until the hour has arrived to strike. 
The threat against the American people from within is not alone a Nazi threat. It is the insidious injection of several European "isms"—^gnawing at the sinews of the Kepublic under the false guise of Democracy. 
For years, our abundant land has drawn foreign agents of every descrip­tion to our shores. Here, in the security of a people blessed with liberty, they have sought to carry on their treacher­ous tasks. like termites, they have bored deep into our social structure with a brazenness that was as daring as the blitzes of Hitler's blood-crazed forces. They insidiously sought the protection of our churches, colleges, clubs and, where need be, they created their own organiza­tions with idealistic-sounding names to bait a gullible public. The alien foes reached their height of perfidy when they devised a program to endow University Chairs to teach young Americans the glories of a New Order, which more cor­rectly can only be described as a state of HeU. 
From thdr vantage points, these for­dgn foes preached their gospel of hate that too often fell on fertile soil, with the result that our Nation has been weakened by forces pulling in every di­rection. A horde of native, but renegade, Americans followed the Axis line. Other forces of misguided Americans lent themsdves to the deadly infection of Anti-Semitism and the stirring up of class against class while still others, like whirling dervishes, pirouetted first in one direction and then another. From some pulpits, some lecture halls, some radios, some presses and even on some screens, came a subtle appeal, blinding and devastating in its effectiveness in numbing the thoughtless into a state of suspended animation. And then the apostles of doom went to work. 
This did not occur overnight. The in­vasion of America took place years i^ . The. conspiracies of these traitors have prompted Hitler to boast that America is on the brink of revolution and that, when he desires, he can precipitate a state of dvil strife. But Hitler and his human vultures are due for a rude awak­ening, because America has profited by the mistakes of the past. No longer are we as susceptible to such Nazi lies and propaganda. 
One task before college graduates to­day is to apply their intellectual curios­ity to exposing the motives of those vrfjo preach a foreign "ism," instead of good old-fashioned Americanism. When you hear wild tales which cause you to won­der, "Whafs the use?", find out what is back of these foul mouthings before yon pass them on as the gospel tmfii. A rumor-monger can do as much damage as an armed invader. Make it a cardinal rule of your life not to become the inno­cent purveyor of si>ecious gossip. 
Widely Circulated Story 

To illustrate, a current story is bong widely circulated. The gossip-mongers heard on "good authority" that ground glass had been placed in sponges con­signed to our aimed and naval forces so that when wounds are treated con­tamination and infection will set in. When this rumor reached the FBI, Special Agents were detailed to get the facts. This is what happened. An in­structor in a medical school had very explicitly pointed out to his dass the necessity for the proper handling of sponges. To emphasize his point, he had observed that in the first World War a few sponges had been contaminated by ground glass. A member of the dass told the story to a friend. Within a few days, it had been so distorted and waiped that from a propaganda standpoint it ex­celled the lies of a Goehbds. Multiply this yam by ten thousand and yon' have some idea of the falsity of some of the stories that are being circulated whidi should be considered an insult to the intelligence of our people. It is such idle gossip that creates hysteria. 
During the past two years, there has been a seething undercurrent of hys­teria that has x>ermeated every section of the land. The fact that our people have remained calm in thdr actions is a tribute to the faith and confidence they have wisdy placed in constituted aulhorities that today are trained and equipped to do the job. Let us remain watchful and vigilant, but, at the same time, sensible and calm. The road to victory and peace is not the road of fanciful fears- and suspidons. 
Tribute to Notre Dame Men 

All law oiforcement bodies in the land are banded together with the same de­termination of purpose of meeting the enemy within a united front. The fine men of Notre Dame, I am happy to say, have played an important role in this program, for scores of graduates of your University are today enlisted in the ranks of the FBI, carrying on its motto, "Fiddity—Bravery—Dit^rity." I am hopeful that from the classrooms of your great institution will come more Men of ,the FBI. Beyond this I would be remiss if I did not express appreciation for the splendid support we have had from the Preddent ,and the Faculty of Notre 
Dame. 
The years that lie ahead will provide eadi of you an opportunity to do your bit to aid the cause of law 'and order. The maintenance of orderly government is the first step toward justice. As you reflect upon the lessons of history, an impresdve panoramic view reveals it­self. No people ever lost the opiwrtunity for sdf-govemment until they first lost the ability to govern. In the latter in­stance, no people remained free. No na­tion or dvilization ever crumbled until its people first fell in moral prindple, in law observance and then drifted into decadence, because they grew soft and laddng in the courage to fight for the supremacy of rig^t. 
Toung men and women should embark 
upon a course of action exemplifying the 
hij^est prindples, frwn which there 
should be no wavering. The necessity of 
this is most apparent in times of emer­
gency. The past two years alone have 
witnessed an upward trend in lawless­
ness. Practically all war-torn countries 
are experiencing a tremendous increase 
in Juvenile delinquency. The causes for 
tiiis trend also exist in America. Increas­
ing^, there has been a lack of parental 
controL We have been engulfed with all 
(Oimtiiroed on pase 18) 

The Baccalaureate Sermbn 
By Most Rev. George L Leech; D.D., LLD.. '42 
Bishop of Harrisburg Declares that the Gxitinuance of the Catholic Way of Life in the United States Is Contingent Upon a Military Victory; Direcb Graduates to Tasb of Peace. 
May I pause at the outset to offer my affectionate congratulations to the Uni­versity of Notre Dame as she enters upon her centennial year. She needs and seeks no praise from me or any man. Abundant reward and inspiration she finds in her long and glorious record, in the conviction of serving God and man, and in witnessing the fruitful and happy lives of her sons. But, as an American Bishop and citizen, intimately concerned with the common weal and particularly charged with the mission of Christ among men, I feel I owe to Notre Bame a debt of gfratitude. When an institution of learning, through the quality of her culture and discipline, comes to be looked upon by the people at large as a sjnnhol of practical Catholicism she has merited the acclaim of every Catholic in the land; when her teaching and training combine to clarify the true idea of citi­zenship and to ground it solidly in thou­sand after thousand of our youth she makes all America her debtor. Such is Notre Dame. God grant her length of days. 
Blessed Agency of Notre Dame 
Today the nation may witness in mini­ature the blessed agency of Notre Dame in our national life. Some five hundred men she again sends forth to live in America and to show America how to live. Five hundred men who believe in God and who propose to live for Him because they love Him; five hundred men who believe in America and who propose to live for her because they love her; five hundred men who know man's origin and man's destiny, and how alone man may achieve that destiny; five hundred men who know what life is for; five hundred men already seasoned in the high adventure of living like Christ among their fellowmen, of seeing the image of Christ in their fellowmen, and like Christ, of bearing the burdens of their fellowmen. What a rich return Notre Dame brings back to God out of the talents He has given her; what a wholesome return to America, whose freedom and security she enjoys. What 
In the unsearchable ways of God, my dear graduates, this triumph of your graduation day falls in a perilous time, in a period of history which men will study and ponder for centuries to come. You are anxious, — deeply anxious, are you not? — about the future. Of course you are. You and your countrymen have good ireasons to be concerned. For, to be carefree in such an hour as this is the prerogative of infants and fools, when peace is gone and men are living as though the Prince of Peace had never come; with your natural patrimony ex­haustinjg itself on war, with mankind scandalized at man's inhumanity to man, with youth's rightful hopes blasted and your whole American heritage in jeop­ardy. In such an hour yoa are thinking hard, pondering a predicament which is yours to solve though it is not of your making. False prophets and false ways, repudiating the Master's way, leave to your generation a heritage of havoc, and you are rightly indignant. A challenge to your fortituc'e, therefore, if ever there was one, confronts you on your gradu­ation day, the like of which, in impor­tance and intensity, you have never heard or read about. 
But I venture to predict that neither doubt nor fear-nor despair will ever descend upon yon — never upon yon the sons of Notre Dame For yon, be, it hoped, are firmly established in the way of seeing life and all the things of life through the eyes of Christ and the Churdt of Christ, and like the beat of-the heart within you the pledge of the-Master repeats and repeats itself: "I am with yon all days." loft np yonr American and Christian hearts. Look into the face of. God and listen to his own assurance: "1 beseech all 'HUM iriw shall read this book that they cimsider the things that happened not as bdng done fotr the destruction but for the cor­rection of onr nation. For it is a token ' of great goodness when sinners are not suffered to go on in their ways for a long tim^ but are presently, punished." (2 Mac 6,12,13.) ~ 
Like Saul on his way to Damascus fulminating against Christ, so has our America been on its way, however un­knowingly, — a way that could never lead to our destiny under God. And as Saul was stricken so has America bfeen stricken. Never mind what agency God has used, only let not the-striking .be in vain. God simply has to be at the core, of the counsels and calculations of men. 

at Natn Vmt wWh tkh n«wl«lli cf lii Dwtac 
an Alma Hater she is to the sons who of Lmwi decree k7 Father OOlaaael. i . b'dM IwOmiiai an StrJ JMa J; Ca»mamtk.'CSJC^ bear her honored name. 
VeiT Rer. TkMwi A. Steiaer. C.S.C.. i : acT. Jaka F. Nil . Ufcap af Fart Wajaa. 
To you and me that is an axiom. Yet even now, when earnest and well-mean­ing patriots are speaMng and writing their most forceful arguments to arouse the nation's spirit, which needs arousing, the loudest argument we hear is the familiar "sounding brass and tinkling cymbal" of the ungodly materialism which has already carried America so far on the road to Damascus. 
America's reason for existence lies in her Constitution and the Bill of Eights, and her right to endure is predicated upon her fidelity to that sacred charter. The Constitution speaks Catholic prin­ciples. Only two of the Founders who signed it were Catholic, but every man who put his hand to that priceless docu­ment was subscribing to the genuine Catholic doctrine of the inviolable dig­nity and independence of the human per­sonality. Seen, as it must now be seen by any thoughtful man, against the back­ground of the proposed "new order of things," and appraised as it must now be appraised in contrast to the curse of human bondage which is descending upon so many lands, our American Constitu­tion holds for us a sacredness and value which are nothing less than godly; for the human rights which the Constitution vindicates and guarantees are of God as truly as the people who adopted it for themselves are the creatures and images of God. Forms of government are man-made, but the rights of man are from God. 
Importance of Constitution 

Fools then, assuredly, we Americans would be, and our generation would go down to posterity as the classic fools of all history if, whether through cringing cowardice or false complacency, whether by force from without or by perfidy from within, we should allow ourselves to be despoiled of our Constitution. It is so sacred and vital a possession as actually to justify a man's dying to save it. 
It is more than a document. It is America in principle. It is literally the. foundation of our civil and religious liberties, and we Catholics have reason to appreciate their value. We have not always enjoyed the use of these liberties here in our own national household. We have suffered much in discrimination and in the privation of our civil rights. Al­ways we knew that we were suffering at the hands of our own brothers in our national family. Always we have prompt­ly foigivoi though we cannot easily for­get. But, when a foe from without threatens car common patrimony, when 
a eonxmon enemy lays violent hands not merely upon the enjoyment but upon the very foundation and guarantee of these rights, we rise by instinctive char­ity and rush to the defense of our neif^-' bors' rights and our own. 
If we Americans, through onr Consti­tution, have pledged and guaranteed to one another an equal and ordered liberty, it finds its highest expression in liberty of conscience. By no element of onr people is this right more sacredly re­garded and by none more intensely exer­cised than by our Catholic citizens. We who revel in the light of the true Faith, we who would starve without the Gospel, the Mass and the Sacraments, — we can sympathize with the blighted lands where religion is anathema, where youth is "de­christianized" and idolatry of the state supplants the worship of the true God. Moreover, in the saving of America, which now claims and has onr prayers and energies, we aim at the saving not of mere lands and money and material comforts, but the things of the soul, wherein man finds his highest earthly happiness and lives the life of the super­natural through the sacred spiritual means with which Christ endowed His Church. Except for our future guidance, it is utterly futile now to speculate on how we might have escaped the scourge of this war. In spite of our ingrained Christian abhorrence of war, in spite of our abiding Christian love for our every fellowman in the world, the fact is plain for any clear-sighted man to see that, in the present circumstances, the very con­tinuance of our Catholic way of life in America — our freedom to offer sacri­fice, our freedom to preach and to hear the word of God, our freedom to admin­ister and to receive the Sacraments, onr freedom to have a Notre Dame or any other Catholic school — de facto, the very endurance of this freedom is now wrapped up in a military victory for the United States. 
This victory will come. It will not come easily. It will be earned by every patriot. It will be won at the cost of all of us. And with it will come the peace. 

That will be your day above all, you men of Notre Dame and the generation you represent. Believe me, that day of peace will demand of you far more of what Notre Dame has given you than this day of war. For, then will the nation summon forth from your character those essential Christian and American attributes which she will badly want and in which you are so very rich — faith, vision, princi­ple, constancy. — the makings of leaders in the nation who know how America ought to walk before God. 
" Meanins of Class Flag 

A few months ago you gave an Amer­ican flag to Notre Dame. Today, with the blessing of God upon it, you nnfurl it to the nation and the world. A symbol it is, but here at Notre Dame a symbol full of its meaning, for it speaks the heart and mind of the true patriot. It declares that you would have and that jrou and your generation intend to make, for yourselves and your children, an America after the original American pattern, an America which will merit before God the blessings of peace and prosperity which God alone can bestow and will not deny. 
Now you address yourselves to that achievement. You go to your task with Christ, His Name upon your lips. His Spirit in your souls, like St. Patrick you go, as he faced the battlements of paganism and the powers of darkness: 
"Christ with me, Christ before me Christ behind me, Christ toithin me Christ beneath me, Christ above me Christ at my right, Christ at my left Christ in every eye that sees me Christ in every ear that hears me. . .." 
So did Patrick pray on the eve of a victory which, after fifteen centuries, still draws the wonderment of men. So do you go, men of Notre Dame to a vic­tory which will give God to America and America to God, a victory which only the Grace of God can win. 
HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C., President of the University. 

GIFTS 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
Anonymous, to the Mediaeval Library Fund |1,000 Kichard O. Bums, Chicago, to tbe Fund for Deserving Students 50 Miss Eleanor Sherman Fitch, New York City, to the University 
Archives. Heirlooms and letters of the Sherman family. 
The President's Address 
By Rev. Hugh O'Donnell. C. S. C. 

In His Address at the Alumni Banquet on May 9, 1942, the 
President of the University Points to Real Internal Enemies; 
Speaks of Notre Dame War Record; Outlines Present Needs. 
Today the world is at war. Thinking men and women are wondering what will happen to our civilization. Some are hopeful; others are beside themselves with fear; a few are driven almost to despair. Although the horizon is dark— and it may become darker—personally I do not believe that there is need to de­spair. I like to feel that behind the clouds of gloom a radiant hope still gleams, providing we renew our faith in God ' and restore Him to His rightful place in American life. This is strengthened by the meaning of the Easter season, which brings with it the lessons of faith and hope—^faith in God, and abiding hope in His mercy and goodness. This should be. the attitude of all true Amer­
icans. 
A reading of history indicates that through the centuries certain catacyls­mic changes have occurred. Yet we can not say that any particular civilization completely perished. Rather, a refining process took place. What was irregular in any specific era was ferreted out and destroyed. Otherwise we would have in­herited none of the culture of the past. All would have been lost in complete chaos. Nothing is farther from the his­torical truth. 
Civilization Under Attack 

At present our civilization is under attack. In this refining process it is well to evaluate just what America is fight­ing for. 
More than a century and a half ago the fathers of our country expressed the solemn belief that government should be man's democratically chosen agent for the protection of God's gifts of life, liber­ty, and the pursuit of happiness. Out of their belief, and their willingness to fight for it, came the form and substance of American government of the people, by the people, for the i>eople. Now that heritage, bom in struggle and sacrifice, is being attacked by forces that would destroy the dignity and integrity of the human personality. America fights for God-given rights. Our homes and altars are at stake. 
America has had its periods of intense gloom in the past. But if we had com­pletely despaired as a nation, we conid not have attained the position we now hold. A righteous people has always awakened in time to safeguard the prin­ciples which constitute our heritage. 

Through the years the true American university has always served as a cus­todian of the American heritage. Insti­tutions of higher learning have risen to prominence because of their fidelity to it. They have realized the necessity of preserving it inviolate as a sacred trust to be handed dovm to generations yet unborn. I say the "true" university be­cause, unhappily, not all educational in­stitutions have remained true to the American, • Christian, principles upon v/hich our nation was built. 
What has happened to education dar­ing the past fifty years? Cynically, cold-bloodedly. certain educators' have 
taken God out of the schools and set up in His place a man-made philosophy of pleasure and racpediency. Now, at the most critical period in our history, we are reaping the harvest of their foQy. As a nation, we are religiously indiffer­ent, or have no religion at alL We have adopted a cafeteria morality; we choose what strikes our fancy, and refuse what seems distasteful. We have glorified false science. We have let our children become guinea pigs upon whom advocates of a philosophy of naturalism practice their pernicious teachings. 
The United States knows how to meet the enemy from without — our armed forces are seeing to that; and I think we may safely leave to Hr. Hoover and his men the problem of dealing with enemy agents, saboteurs, and fifth col­umnists. But the defeat of the nation's most diabolical enemies does not fall within the province of the army or navy. 
H<Mt BcT. John F. NaU. kfahap af Fatt Wajaa; J. Elcar Haanr. CmamnttmKmt (vaakcr: Ibat BcT. Geane U Leed^ Baecalaaieata pnadMr; aW Bar.'Hach OTlawaiB, C.S.C. piniiiat. eaiar a faw •omenta tocether Jait fccfata tha CaauMSCMacat awiclna. Amarias ia fha hwtnaaaj an tkiaa farawr piaidenti af Ote Cnirenitr: RCT. Hstlhaw J. Wal*. (XS.C.. Bar. Eiwaid Sarin. C.S.C.. fai and Rer. James A. BanUb C.S.C. 
nor within that of the F.B.I. Our real Quislings operate under the cloak of re­spectability, or, since they are true Quis­lings, even under the guise of patriotism. They find it easy to do their work be­cause God has been cast out of educa­tion. Aniong them are the proponents of divorce, birth control, planned parent­hood, and euthanasia — groups that at­tack not only the family, but the indi­vidual's right to life, under the pretense of social betterment. They can be de­feated only by a return to God. 
Birth Controllers' Destruction 

I shall not comment at length upon these movements. But I want to call your attention to a piece of appalling effrontery. We pretend to be a Christian nation. We ask God to bless us in our dark hour. Yet we harbor, and even en­courage, an organization that out-Herods Herod in the slaughter of the innocents. I have said before, and I repeat, that the scorched-earth policy is merciful as compared with the birth controllers* wan­ton destruction of human life. But listen to Dr. Richard N. Pierson, president of the Birth Control Federation of Amer­ica, who said in response to a recent ad­dress of mine: "Nothing could please us more than to have a rising birth rate in the United States among parents who will space their children to the advan­tage of mother and child. All of our efforts are pointed to the attainment of that program." When, may I ask, did Dr. Pierson and Mrs. Sanger take unto themselves the divine right of the Cre­ator? 
Dr. Pierson is correct when he says that the birth rate in America is rising at the present time, but his citation of that fact in answer to me is a sad com­mentary on his logical processes. It is as pretty an instance of dodging the issue of fundamental right and wrong as I have heard in a long time. In fact, time has proved that the campaign of birth control can not be justified even on the grounds of expediency. Let me illustrate: We are at war with Japan, whose. population a half century ago was 41,388,000. In 1942 the population of Japan and its island possessions is 105,226,000. One student of the census observes: "The United States has today a pitiable 130,000,000. I say pitiable ad­visedly, for we were so far ahead of Japan fifly years ago that if the women of America had been as faithful to duty as the winnen of Japan, we would have today, 200,000,000 to meet the Japanese threat." 
Added evidence that whom the gods would destroy they first make mad is the bill spimsored in the New York -State Legislature by the Euthanasia Society of America, Inc. If passed, it would legalize the putting to death .of persons who consented to be kiUed. Listen to the argument advanced for the bill by the president of the society—as able a lop­cian as Dr. Pierson. First, mercy kill­ings are increasing, although illegally; secondly, "a constantly increaang body of thoughtful citizens" approve the idea. Observe the reasoning: Murder is in­creasing; therefore, it should no longer be a crime. Yet, so far as I know, God has not repealed the fifth commandment. 
Why have we wandered so far from the paths of righteousness? Why have we as a nation become so callous? Be­cause naturalism has adulterated oar schools. Because secularism poisoned the well springs of the nation when it cast God out of the life of man. As Bishop Noll has said, the United States needs a pro-God movement unless we want to go the way of pagan nations of the past. And the President of the United States confirms this thesis: 
"No greater thing could come to our land today than a revival of the spirit of religion — a revival that would sweep through the homes of the nation and stir the hearts of men and women of all faiths to a reassertion of their belief in God and their dedication to His ivill for themselves and for the tvorld. I doubt if there is any problem—so­cial, political, or economic — that would not melt away before the fire of such a spiritual awakening." 

But not aU men have such vision. For example, certain defeatists among the educators' realize how far we have fallen, morally and intellectually. But they can not—or will not—see that the common­sen.'se thing is to get back where we be­long, to the Christian heritage of educa­tion. (Parenthetically, may I say that I have no quarrel with the state universi­ties. Many of them are doing splendid work, and Notre Dame holds them in high esteem.) But some defeatists in­sist upon making a bad situation still ' worse by substituting state control for the church-related school wiOi which America began. This attitude was ex­pressed by Dr. Alexander Heikeljohn, speaking before the Commission on In­stitutions of Higher Learning of the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools: 
"/ want to call your attention to the fact that when we dislodged the church from its control of education, we put in its place—and we are stiU 
putting more and more strongly in its place—the state. In my own opin­ion, we were right in doing so. When we reflect on it, we find it is the only hope of salvation. 
"In our civilization, the day of the church is over, so far as Protestants are concerned, and the day of the state is coming. The state as the basis of, as the instrument of, as the interpreter of, as the creator of aU things which the school has to do, must take the place of the church." 
The implication is that the church has faOed, and that is not true. Much of secular education has failed—yes; and we are pajnng dearly for its failure. But it did not begin to fail unto, in Dr. Meikeljohn's words, "we dislodged the church from its control of education." 

Now, imbued with the philosophy of statism, a certain group would have the government cut off the support of the privatdy-controUed university by setting limits on those deductions against estate taxes now allowed for charitable and educational purposes. 
More Than Meets the Eye 

I mention this proposal because there is more in it than first meets the eye. It seems innocent enough—just another tax measure suggested at a time when the Federal Government needs additional 
. revenue. Actually, it might be consid­ered as the start of a campaign to bring private colleges and universities under government control. 
In commenting on it in the New York Times for May 1, Arthur Krock asks a pertinent question: 
"Is it the purpose of those behind the move to make up to the colleges by Federal subsidy tlie subsistence funds they would lose? This is a question which is being asked in alarm by educators who see no other way to keep their institutions going if the Treasury prevails. If that is the remedy in mind, then a growing measure of Federal control over higher edtication would ensue for the first time in the country's history, and that prospect may well alarm the public as well as the educators." 

Mr. Krock also quotes Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, president of Union Collie, who said: "If the Federal Government seizes in whole or in part what loyal alumni and others have intended to bequeath to Union, sooner or later the Federal Gov­ernment would have to subsidize it to a 
(Continued on page 19) 

Scholastic Celebrates Diamond Jubilee 
First Re3ular ^Summer Semester of the University Marks Beginning of Notre Dame News Magazine's 75th Year. 
On June 5, the Notre Dame SCHOLAS­TIC made its first appearance in the first summer semester in the University's history. 
This breach of tradition, and its pre­mature bow on its 75th birthday, does not shake the composure of the SCHO­LASTIC. 
September, 1942, will officially mark the diamond jubilee of this mature mem­ber of the now large family of college publications. But in a proper sense of history, it is in character that this mem­orable event should be jolted by a World war. 
The first SCHOLASTIC—then called the Scholastic Year and appended to the also new Ave Maria—^was published imder the editorship of Rev. N. H. Gillespie, 
C.S.C. From the first, despite its faculty editorship, it was a student project. Different issues of that first volume were edited by special student editors. And from the first, independence and self-confidence appeared in undergraduate flourish, e.g. "The Scholastic Year, with or without the Ave Maria, is $2.50 for ten months." 
Bom in the reconstruction period after the Civil War which had taken heavy toll of Notre Dame teachers and stu-
By James E. Armstrong, '25 
dents, the SCHOLASTIC sought to heal— with the cultural, the intellectual and the spiritual—grave political and social wounds of the era. Somewhat modestly, for the first and last time in its history, the magazine was launched with newa items of arrivals of students, honor rolls, essays, poems, and a few furtive faculty contributions. 
Advertising in that first issue was lim­ited to summary outlines of Notre Dame and St. Mary's,-signed by two of the great figures of Holy Cross who then headed the respective schools. Rev. W. Corby, C.S.C, recent enough from the Battle of Gettysburg to throw his soul into the work of Christian education for peace, and Mother Angela, C.S.C., found­er of St. Mary's. 
Volume II showed the quick grasp of opportunity. Gone was the restraint of youth and novelty. Departments were introduced and strengthened. An article on science was announced for each issue, to give the subscriber his money's worth of real culture. And the undergraduate mind roamed the earth for essay topics. Japan and China, which to you may be only recent acquaintances, were outlined in detail in the SCHOLASTIC of 1869. God­less education was painted in its facts and implications, long before the secu­larization of American education had become so grim a reality. And in spite of the presence of the venerable French founder, fntore of Notre Dame was re­flected in a long treatise on The Irisn Language^ 
By the time Volume VI appeared, the ScHOLAsnc had reached genuine aea­demic proportions and stood a giant among its contemporaries. Even the'mod­em use of advertising was introduced in this early issue. Letters from old stu­dents marked the impact of the publica­tion on students and alumni alike. Cul­tural activity of a golden era was re­flected in the appearance of original plays, poons, and essays of substantial intellectaal achievement. Greek addresses were printed in the SCHOLASTIC in Gredc, and Latin addresses appeared in Latin. Few visiting celebrities escaped one or the other. 
Mirror of History 
The SCHOLASTIC was of voting age. 
Vol. XXI, when much that is now re­
garded as historical took place. Its pages 
praised the wisdom of the founding of a 
Catholic Universi^ of America. Its sport 
pages gave a patronizing account of the 
first football games at Notre Dame, 
against the University of Michigan, 
while its editoriid pages denounced the 
dangers of the sport. 
Electricity as a danger to human life rivalled in thrilling reader interest the pressing social problems of the period, such as the Causes of Pauperism and Clime, and the liquor Question in Chi­cago. Father Matthew and his cmsade were the sonrees of much editorial stroigth. 
Ptophet of Pirosress 
Faculty contributions, long mingled with student offerings; had become a 'strong feature of the SCHOLASTIC in the 'Ws. And in many of these pronounce­ments of the scholars of that era ap­peared words that read today like proph­ecies. 
Writing on the progress of aeronanti­cal science in the SCHOLASTIC in 1892, Dr. Albert Zahm, then a professor at Notre Dame, and one of its most'ont-

The New Ave Maria Building, where the "Scholastic" 1$ Printed. standing ahnmii and aeronautical sden­
tists, said of the new discovery of a light 
steam engine: 
"They will soon screw themselves 

through the air with a velocity far ex­
ceeding the flight of eagles.... When the 
solution (for flying) finally comes, it vrill 
probably appear to the general mass of 
mankind as a simple invention of a 
single man, whereas it will have been a 
steady g:rowth through generations." In 
1893, Dr. Zahm called the first Aeronau­
tical Congress held in this country. It 
took another decade to produce the 
Wright brothers, and Kittyhawk. 
Pasteur was featured in the pages of the SCHOLASTIC. Rev. John A. Zahm, C.S.C, eminent scientist himself, brother of the aeronautical pioneer, said of Pas­teur, his personal friend: "Great as Pasteur now is, he is destined to become greater as the years roll by, and as the world awakens to a proper realization of his priceless services to humanity." 
Just before the turn of the century, Guglielmo Marconi startled the world by successfully flashing a wireless message across the English Channel. At Notre Dame, where Marconi was to receive an honorary doctorate 34 years later, his experiments were watched eagerly by a professor, and grasped so thoroughly that it was at Notre Dame, on equipment built in the department of physics, that the first successful wireless message in America was sent that same year. Writ­ing of the experiments. Prof. Jerome Greene, its author, said in the SCHOLAS­TIC: "Many applications have been sug­gested for tiiis system, mostly for special cases in military or naval operations... . Interception, (then a serious handicap) however, may be prevented when the action of the waves is better understood and some means may be invented to se­cure privacy and increase the working distance." 
The pages of the SCHOLASTIC thus un­roll a history of the years that is far broader than the campus it has served. 
Birthplace of Celebrities 

Space and time ^vill relegate many good men to obscurity who began their long climb up the years to success on the steps of the SCHOLASTIC ofiice. 
Did you read Father Speer Strahan's glorious account of the recent work of the chaplains in Hawaii? He was a SCHOLASTIC editor, serving now under Bishop O'Hara of the Military Ordinar­iate, himself a SCHOLASTIC editor. 
Stuart Carroll, one of the key men in the Stars and Stripes of World War I, who died in that war, was fresh from the SCHOLASTIC staff. 
In current writing, Harry Flannery, whose book Assignment to Berlin will ap­pear late this month; Frank Wallace, novelist and moving picture writer of Kid GalaJidd and other stories; Father Leo R. Ward, C.S.C, whose novels on Ireland and Iowa alike have won wide acclaim; Vincent Engels, who charms Commonweal readers at intervals; George Shuster, the writer and pres­ident of Hunter College; Walter O'Eeefe, the comedian; — these were SCHOLASTIC editors. 
Two great chaplains of World War I, both now deceased, the late Bishop George Finnigan, C.S;C., of Helena, and the late Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, poet-president of Notre Dame, were golden minds of earlier SCHOLAS­TICS. 
So through 75 of Notre Dame's first 100 years, the SCHOLASTIC has been her mirror, and her history. Young minds bloomed through its pages into the cul­tural, the spiritual, the intellectual lead­ership of State and Church. Men and events were reported in the narrow phrases of an immediate critic, later to become the legends and traditions of Notre Dame. The clash of giants on the athletic fields, the cycles of happiness and tragedy that have gone with dis­aster, and death, and prosperity at Notre Dame, dot the departments of its vol­umes. 
Record of the steady growth of a Uni­versity founded on a faith that faced so great adversity at first that later visita­ions were like the return of a familiar if unpopular acquaintance, the SCHOLAS­TIC is the unfailing mine of the wealth of virtues that have combined to create, preserve and perpetuate the progress of Notre Dame. 
SEVEN N. D. RETREATS 

Seven consecutive week-end retreats for laymen, beginning June 25, were an­nounced recently by the Rev. Joseph E. Hart, C.S.C;, '24, retreat director, follow­ing a conference of district chairmen at Notre Dame. The retreats vnU be held in Holy Cross Seminary on the campus. 
The seven retreats, limited to 120 men each week-end, will take the place of the general retreat—the largest in the world —^which was held annually at Notre Dame early each August. 
The change was necessitated by the fact that the United States Navy has taken over three of the larger residential halls, formerly used to house the retreat-ants, as quarters for the Navy men con­tinually in training. In addition, the accelerated program at the University will keep 2,000 students on the campus throughout the summer. 
Regional chairmen are John P. Eoest­ner, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Edmund Klein, Hammond, Ind.; Harold J. Tuberty, '31, 
Logansport, Ind.; Albert E. Lamb, In­
dianapolis; W. J. Maloney, Chicag^o; Ed­
ward W. McKnight, Grand Rapids; and 
Charles J. Kramer, Gary, Ind. 
All retreats, with the exception of one, will begin on Thursday evening and con­clude Sunday morning. That one will be open Friday evening, July 3, and con­clude Sunday evening, July 5. 
Alumni (from any point at all) who are interested in one of this year's re­treats should write at once to Father Hart for additional information. 
MAHIN RECEIVES FACULTV AWARD 
Dr. Edward G. Mahin, head of the Department of Metallurgy at the Uni­versity, was awarded the 1941-42 Notre 
Dame Alumni Associ­
ation purse for out­
standing service dur­
ing the school year 
jus t completed o n 
May 10. 
A member of the 
Notre Dame faculty 
since 1925, Dr. Mahin 
has headed the Met­
allurgy Department 
since 1932, and during 

DB. MAHIN those years has made several important contributions in his field, particularly in case carburizing, hardness testing and non-metallic in­clusions in steel. 
Bom in Lafayette, Ind., in 1876, Prof. Mahin received his B.S. and M.S. from Purdue University, and received his doc­torate from Johns Hopkins imiversity, Baltimore, Md., in 1908. He was instruct^ or in analytical chemistry at Purdue from 1901-25. 
A contributor to leading technical journals for many years. Dr. Mahin is a fellow of the Indiana Academy of Sci­ence, a member of the American Society for Metals, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engfineers, the American Foundrymen's Association and other similar organizations. 
In 1933, Prof. Mahin was issued a pat­ent for a steel hardening process which was 70 per cent faster than any previous method. His research in this field has been extensive for many years. 
In a note of thanks to the Alumni Association following the awarding of his latest honor. Dr. Mahin said, "Please convey to the Association my deep ap­preciation of the honor implied in the award, received by me on Commencement day." 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
By JOSEPH S. PETRiTZ, '32 

ATHLETICS 
So successful has the 1941-42 Notre Dame athletic program been that it's difficult to know where to begin this post-commencement report. 
It is a well-known fact that Coach Frank Leahy's 1941 football team was undefeated. The basketball and fencing . teams had winning seasons, which is somewhat of an imderstatement. The track squad was beaten only once in­doors, by Michigan, and came back to beat the Wolverines, Ohio State's Big Ten champions, Nebraska, the Big Six titlists, and a bang-up field in the Butler relays. This same track squad is unde­
feated outdoors, as of this writing. 
The golf and tennis teams are unde­feated, the latter with its season ended. The baseball team, off to a shaky start, won 7 out of 11 games. The track and golf teams had fewer contests remaining at this writing than they have victories in the ledger, so winning seasons for all sports are a mathematical certainty. 
TENNIS 
On a straight news basis, the tennis team really rates first consideration. Prof. Walter M. Langford's squad was, without any question, the strongest ever to represent Notre Dame. It was the first undefeated Notre Dame team since 1927, and the second in history. The Irish marched through their matches with Michigan State, Michigan's Big Ten champions, Illinois, Kentucky, Western Michigan, Indiana, Wisconsin, Chicago, and Northwestern in that order. 
They didn't overpower all opposition— they had to fight for several of their victories, coining from behind on more than one occasion. Michigan, with only one man missing from its conference championship unit of last year, with the advantage of playing on its home courts, and with the added advantage of indoor practice facilities, lost a thrilling 6 to 3 decision April 18. 
The rest appeared to be fairly easy, until the final matches with Chicago and Northwestern. But Illinois and Western Michigan proved sterner competition than was anticipated, holding Notre Dame to twin 5-4 decisions. The Chicago match was another battle, Notre Dame winning, 6 to 3, when Capt. Dan Canale took the featured No. 1 match from Cal Sawyier of the Maroons. 
Bain interfered with the final match with Northwestern, but Notre Dame won the singles, 4 to 2, after four hours of play, and attempted play. When another shower came along at the start of the doubles. Coach Paul Bennett of the 'Cats graciously conceded that Notre Dame would have won at least one of the three doubles, cinching a 5 to 4 victory. The official score reads, 4 to 2. 
Thus Coach Langford, whose fencing team won 5 out of 8 last winter, has produced his third winner in a row since taking over the head reins in tennis. His 1940 team won 4 and lost 3. Last year's unit won 7 out of 8, losing a 5 to 4 decision to Northwestern in the finale. His three-year record is 20 victories and 4 defeats. The significance of this achievement sinks in when the record is examined. In nine previous seasons, the Irish broke even once and had eight los­ing years. 
Jim (Bud) Ford, a transfer student and a senior playing his only season for the Irish, was undefeated in both singles and in doubles with Olen Parks as his partner. The Alhambra, Calif., boy played in the No. 4 spot. 
Joe Sehaefer, No. 6 after a series of challenge matches had brought him up to the varsity, won 4 singles and three ­doubles without defeat. He also relieved the coach of his early season worries about the No. 6 spot. 
Bob Faught, 6-foot 5-inch basketball star who broke the Notre Dame single game scoring record with 26 points against N.Y.U. last winter, also a Madi­son Square Garden record, won all of his nine singles matches in the No. 3 position, and 6 of his 7 doubles starts in No. 1 with Capt. Canale. 
Canale, meeting the toughest competi­tion the midwest has to offer, won 7 of his 9 starts, losing only to Kussell of Western Michigan and Capt. Seymour Greenberg of Northwestern who is un­defeated over a three'year period in col­legiate dual competition. His total for singles and doubles was 13 wins and 3 losses, which is better than any No. 1 

llllllllilMllllltllllllllllll llllflllinilllllllltlllllllllMIIMUUUIItUtUllMMIHIMIIIIIIUIItllllllllllttHlllllltlllllllllllllllltlltlllUtUllllllul 
TENNIS CHAMPIONS OF THE WEST 
Tfce flneit eoUexiate tennis teaa of tke aeaam is the IBMIe We»t (aad the «»e»t ia Metre Da»e liistorT) took nine atraidit Tietoriee acainit ne defeat*. Naatered «ie»r the nctiau were Necthwcelen, CUeaso. Hichifan and Illinoii. which iaidwd i> that eider as the la»M(chen in the Bic Ten tewnaiMnt. 
Shown aho«, in the top row, left te richt. are: Faacht, Pappai. Sehaefer, Coach Lancfeid. BOttner. Parks: in the bottom row: Doatel, Holfauni. Capt. Canak and Fetd. 
man has done for Notre Dame in many years. 
Parks, the ponderous Mishawaka sen­ior who was imdefeated in the No. 3 position last year, winning the state coUegfiate tournament, found the season too short and too early to whip his 220 pounds into peak condition. He won 2 out of 9 singles, indicating that he was coming fast at the end when Northwest­em's highly-touted Bobby Jake was ex­tended to win 6-2, 10-12, 6-4. No one on the squad worked harder than Parks, and it is likely that he would have made a more impressive record in a longer sea­son. His doubles record with Ford of 8 victories gave him a total mark of 10 successes to 7 defeats. 
George Biittner, No. 5 man, won 5 of his 8 singles matches, and he broke even in doubles, playing.with various part­ners. 
The Irish marg^ of 57 points to op­ponents' 21 is the largest in Notre Dame history. Last year's team won 52 match­es to 21. 
The record: 
Notre Dame. 6 Michigan State, 3 
Notre Dame, 6 ISichigan, 3 
Notre Dame, 5 Illinois, 4 
Notre Dame, 8 Kentucky, 1 
Notre Dame, 5 Western Michigan, 4 
Notre Dame, 8 Indiana. 1 
Notre Dame, 9 "Wisconsin, 0 
Notre Dame, 6 Chicago, 3 
Notre Dame, 4 Northwestern, 1 

BASEBALL There was nothing much about Notre Dame's 3.71 earned nm average for pitchers and .936 fielding mark that the lusty .313 team batting average could not overcome. As a result. Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline's boys wound up -with a record of 7 victories in 11 starts. Only Iowa, last year's runners-up in the Big Ten and again one of the leaders, was able to sweep a two-game series. These games were the second and third of the season, and Notre Dame mistakes made therein were not made again. 
The Fighting Irish managed an even break with Michigan's defending confer­ence champs, and "with Western Michi­gan. They won two games from Purdue and two from Northwestern. The big game, however, was "wdth Great Lakes, 
•with a crowd of nearly 4,000 present. Included were nearly all of the 900 V-7 apprentice seaman whose loyalty was di­"vided between the stars from the Naval Training Station' and their hosts. For llie head Irishman, Capt. Bemie Crim­mins, is a V-7 man himself, subject to can to active doty soon. The possessor of «aily two hits in seven games up to that time, Crimmins got himsdf 3 singles in 4 trips, knocked in a run, and scored two against the Sailors, helping Pitcher ­Hal Smullen to an 8 to 6 verdict. 
Kangy Jack Tallett, jimior first sack­er, led the dub almost throughout the season, finishing "with a .467 average. Andy Chlebeck, last year's captain and leading hitter, was close behind with .457. Smullen took third spot "with .455. Of the regulars, the others finished in this order: Fred Gore, shortstop, .366; John (Buster) Hiller, right fidd, .326; John Metzger, pitcher, .333; George Sobek, second base, .319; Frank San­filippo, left fidder, .265; Capt. Crimmins, catcher, .200; Jim Carlin, third base, .200. 
Chlebeck finished his career with a three-year mark of .388. He hit safdy in every game this season and in all bnt one last year. He connected safdy in 24 straight games and in 27 out of the last. 
28. He made only one error in the past two seasons, struck out only four times in two years, and only once this year. 
Crimmins, who hit .364 last year, has a Notre Dame "lifetime" mark of .271. Sobek, also a senior, hit .244 for his three years. The Irish leader made only three errors in the past two seasons, leading the 1942 regulars "with a handsome .974 mark. 
Smullen, a sandy-haired, slender soph­omore, turned in 3 "victories in 4 starts and an earned run average of 3 a game to lead the hurling departmoit. He struck out 29 in his 33 innings of labor. Johnny Metzger won 2 out of 3, giving 
4.5 earned runs a game, and Ambrose Dudley, who worked 11 innings got credit for one "win against no losses, "with a 
3.18 earned run mark. Bob (Bobo) Fischer won 1 out of 3, and his E.R. mark was 3.67. 
The record follows: 
Notre Dame. 12 Purdue, 3 Notre Dame, 5 Iowa, 10 Notre Dame, 1 Iowa, 4 . Notre Dame, 13 Northwestern, 1 Notre Dame, 4 Purdue, 3 Notre Dame, 6 Northwestern, 4 Notre Dame, 2 Michigan, 3 Nctre Dame, 8 Great Lakes, S Notre Dame, 7-Western Michigan, 12 Notre Dame, 11 Michigan, 7 Nctre Dame, 2 Western Michigan, 0 

TRACK 
BULLETIN: The Irish Io«t to the Armr, CC^ to 59^, bat, with 70 points, won the Indians' State Meet for the third straiifat year. Indiana was second with 42 points, 
William P. Mahoney, 25-year old "boy wonder" of the track coaching profes­sion had produced outdoor dual meiet vic­tories over Missouri and Michigan State at this writing, and he was heading for West Point and Annapolis. The West Point trip was for purposes of a meet with Army. The Annapolis trip was for purposes of taking a 30-day indoctrina­tion course, Mahoney having been com­missioned an ensign three days after the Michigan State meet. 
The Irish oi>ened thdr outdoor cam­paign with a strong showing in the Drake rdays. Bill Kdly, Tony Maloney, Frank Conforti, and Ollie Hunter teamed to-win the four-mile rday from the same Illinois quartet that had won at Butler. The mile unit, Butler champs, finished third bdiind Ohio State and 
L. S. U., with George Schiewe, Dick Tnpta, Austin Jones, and Capt. Ray Boy running in that order. The distance medley unit made up of Tupta, Schiewe, Conforti, and Maloney took second to Illinois. 
Hunter was dethroned as two-mile king by Virgin Alston of Miami (Ohio) 
U. Without taking a thing trata the Buckeye distance star, who was clocked' in 9:25.3, it should be reported that Hunter, ordered not to extend himself because of the next day's relay events, led by 70 or 75 yards going into the final quarter. As Alston closed in on him, the crowd set up a roar which Hunter thought indicated a battie for second place. He couldn't hear his trackside teammates urging him on. And even when Alston passed him at the tape, he thought the Miami boy was someone warming up for another race. In the opinion of Mahoney, Hunter could have come home easily in 9:17, having run the first mile and a half in 6:58. 
Jim Delaney was beaten in the shot put by Aussiecker of Missouri, a matter he attended to the following week in the dual meet at Columbia. 
Jack Wietoff turned in his best com­petitive effort up to that time to take third in the pole vault a 13 feet. He did 13 feet 3 inches the following week against Missouri, however. 
Meanwhile, Bill Dillon was taking third in the Penn relays 120-yard high hurdles. Dillon distinguished himself in the Michigan State meet with victories in the high and low hurdles and the 100­yard dash. He established a meet record of 24.1 in the lows. 
The Missouri meet was held under sudi adverse conditions that most of the program was moved indoors. The Irish won comfortably, 67 to 50. 
Hunter broke John Munski's fieldhouse record with his 9:22.4 two-mile, and Delaney his 50 feet 4% inches in the shot put. 
Conforti established a meet record of 

4:17.2 for the mile nm in the Michigan 
State meet, beating out Hunter and Bill Scott, ace Spartan miler. The Irish dominated the running events to roll up an 83 to 48 margin and ' to turn a toss-up meet into a rout. • GOLF 
On the basis of its six victories in as 

many starts, the golf team probably 
rates better billing, but future issues will 
carry accounts of further no-doubt-illus­
trious achievements. Most impressive 
victory to date has been over Illinois, the 
Big Ten darkhorse and defending cham­
pion, 15 to 12. The Irish came from be­
hind to annex a 14 to 13 decision over 
Minnesota and played their best golf 
under the worst conditions to date to 
swamp Wisconsin, 17% to 6%. 
Matches remain, in the summer semes­

ter, with Michigan State at East Lan­
sing June 5,. and with Northwestern at 
home June 15. The latter match will be 
played on the Chain O'Lakes course of 
the South Bend Country club, site of the 
45th aimual National Intercollegiate 
tourney June 22 to 27. Notre Dame, now 
in its centennial year, will be the host 
school. 
It is likely that the N.C.A.A. tourney 

will be the occasion of many a reunion. 
The field took in representatives of 51 
schools last year and should be just as 
large this season. Meanwhile, Notre 
Dame has just greeted its second Navy 
indoctrination group of 1,100 commis­
sioned officers who will be completing 
their six-week course at tournament 
time. All of the indoctrinees are college 
graduates. 
Bill Fisher is leading in scoring with 20% points to his credit, and an average of 74 strokes per round for 11 rounds. Gene Fehlig is only a step behind with 18% points and a 74 average for 10 rounds. John Conry has collected 18 U points also, and is averaging 76-plus aft­er 11 rounds. 
Paul Malloy, averaging 78, has made 11% points. Jack Harrigan, with 11 points, has an average of 76.4 for five rounds. Bill Moorehead, with 8 points, is averaging 78.5. Tom Nash, Jr., with 7% points, has averaged 78.8. Capt. Bill Wilson has made 7% points with his 78 average. 
There was a noticeable drop in scores in the later weeks, and it is not beyond the realm of possibility that, come tour­jiament time, the Irish will be consistent and balanced enough to finish among the nation's leaders. 
The scores: 
Notre Dame, 18; Purdue, 8 
Notre Dame, 15%: Detroit, 2% 
Notre Dame. 15: Illinois. 12 
Notre Dame, U; Hinnesita. 13 
Notre Dame. 23%; CJhannte Field, 3% 
Notre Dame, 17%; Wisconsin, 6%. 
1942 FOOTBALL SCHH)UiE 

There will be further and definite word in the next issue concerning the football ticket picture for 1942- Switching of dates to make room on the schedule for Maj. Bemie Bierman's Iowa Air Cadets and the all-stars from Great Lakes 
N.T.S. has left the schedule somewhat altered and enlarged. 
The present schedule is as follows: 
Sept. 26—Wisconsin at Madison Oct. 3—Georgia Tech at Notre Dame Oct. 10—Stanford at Notre Dame Oct. 17—^lows Air Cadets at Notre Dame Oct. 24—Illinois at Cbampaiim Oct. 31—Navy at Cleveland Nov. 7—^Army at New York Nov. 14—^Michiean at Notre Dame Nov. 21—^Northwestern at Notre Dame Nov. 28—Southern California at l4>8 Angles 
(site tentative) Dec. 5—Great Lakes N.T.S. at Soldier Keld. Chicago 
CLUB RETREAT HELD 

The annual Bockne Memorial Retreat of the Notre Dame Club of Northern California, directed by Keene Fitzpat­rick, '13, was held this year, from March 
26 to 30, at the Jesuits' El Retizo as 
usnaL There was an attendance of 37. 
The retreatants received the following 

telegram &om Kev. Hu ^ O^tainell; 
C.S.C., president. of the University: 
"Congratulations to the members of the 
Notre Dame Gnb of Northern California 
on their annual Retreat during this very 
critical period of our country^ As has 
been said so truly, 'the ultimate 
strength of the nation is in-the things 
of the spirit.' I know you win be re­
freshed in mind and soul by the excellent 
conferences . conducted . by the distin­
guished Jesuit fathers. My blessing to' 
all of you." 
MOTHER OF N. D. MEN 

Two recent Notre Dame students axe among the 13 children of Mrs. William 
N. Berry of Greensboro, N. C, who was chosen "The American Mother of 1942." They are Francis X Berry, "38, and Joseph L. Berry, 1939-40. Two of Mis. Bend's grown children are nuns and another son will be ordained a priest this year. The title was conferred by the 
. Golden Rule Society. 
One Alumnus Registers Another Alumnus 
In the White Honse, the Preddent af flw Vaited Slatca. FnidSa DL Baaaerdt, IXJt.. "SS. bi aa -April 27, resistercd for the draft kjr Jaaea D. Hayca. '17. rtuiffaa af Draft Baaid Na. 9, WaaUactaa. D.C. 
Jim is assistant chief and lecal coasaltaat, Inianace dalas CauMll. Veteiaaa AimiwitttaOim. amt 
has occnpied vaiiow lecal poaitioiu with Oe Veltraaa Bneaa stece.Ulf. A TCtena af.'tfce Fiiat Wadd 
War, he is one of the relatively few wlw have hcea active in selective service ia hath wadd wan: aaaa 
after his cradaation, and hefore be enteied aa aCieeis' tiaiaias caaip, he waa a aieahcr af 
board in bis home town af Fort Wayne, bd . 
THE COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS 
(Continued from page 8) Idnds of new theories, holding that self-expression should not be disciplined, whether it takes the form of petty lies, thievery or outright debauchery. Normal routines have been disrupted, wholesome recreational activities have been cur­tailed and there has been a growing spirit of general wartime abandon with its attendant philosophy of "Eat, drink and be merry," with no regard for the future and its enriching fruits. 
Story of Broken Homes 
Already, the press has told the story of broken homes. No nation is stronger than its homes. The home is the comer-stone of Democracy. We hear much talk about rights of all kinds, but not enough about the right of a child to be brought up in an atmosphere of decency in a good home. It is a lack of religious train­ing in the home, and in the school, that usually breeds criminals. If this country ever hopes to root out crime, it must begin at the cradle. We must instil a moral sense of responsibility in our youth, through religious instruction. 
In the foolish and prosperous years of the past, the seeds of lawlessness were being sown. Now, we are paying the price. Had not the palsy of pacifism swept some parts of the world, stimu­lated by a doctrine of hate and destruc­tion, democracies would have been pre­pared and free peoples would have had the courage to say "No" to Nazism, Fascism, and all their fiendish principles and practices, when they started their onward march. 

Man cannot violate the fundamental laws of God, or of life, with impimity. That "the wages of sin is death" is painted in the memory of some home within the acquaintanceship of every person here today. There was a time when sophistication was the earmark of smartness. Unfortunately, this is still the case in many quarters. Nations have paid the penalty for smartness which have worshipped at the idolatrous shrine of materialism and license. Let us deter­mine that this can never be said of America. Surely, there is hope when in quietude we realize there is a Supreme Power and when, in the stress and strain of daily life, we live in the pattern and seek tiie guidance of a kind Providence. But if God is good now, when we are facing tribulation, sorrow and sacrifice, so is He good in periods of peace and prosperity, if we would but give God a chance. 
Freedmn does not rest upon law but upon men, for men make, obey or break laws. Justice is not the foundation of society—men who do justly are that foundation. In the same way, men are free only if they are just. 
America became great because it fused into one great melting pot the best of the old world culture, seasoned by the conditions of a young and vigorous Na­tion. The fact that we are under attack by alien foes does not mean that all aliens or their offspring in our land are un-American. The millions of men and women in these United States who were born abroad or are the children of par­ents bom abroad give structural and virile strength to our Nation. Only a few of them lack the qualities essential in a real American. 
But those who are not, while numeri­cally small, represent a force that is evil, sinister and potentially dangerous. The time has come when native citizens and foreign-bom alike must live and work only for America. The time has come when we must seek the end of the foreign-inspired groups that put their homelands first, such as the "German-American Bund." Even after Pearl Har­bor, segments of such groups proclaimed that the real issue was not so much the American war effort as the "historic task of saving the . . . Motherland." 
Should Be Incarcerated 
The Shinto Priest who preaches in America that one's body and soul belong to the Emperor of Japan should be in­carcerated as a dangerous alien enemy; the alien who places his homeland before America should have no claim to Uie fruits of American liberty and freedom. It is unfortunate that those who extol the virtues of Hitlerism cannot be packed up and sent to Germany. They have for­feited their claim to the decency and protection of the Stars and Stripes. 
By the same token, every red-blooded American should do his utmost to pro­tect and aid the foreign-bom whose character of Americanism puts to shame many of our native citizens. Oppression of sincere liberty-loving aliens is one sure way to develop a Fifth Column. Let us counteract it with justice that pro­tects the innocent and sets apart the guilty. We must be vigilant, but not Vi^antes. 

In the affairs of the State, a willing­ness alone to bear arms is not sufficient. There must also be a willingness to take an active role in assuming a share of civic responsibility. Should law and order break down, and should there be domes­tic violence in the future, it will be be­cause citizens have failed in the dis­charge of their duties. Crime thrives, violence and murder rage, only in that county, state or nation where law and resistance are weak. 
Naturally, every university graduate looks to days of security, happiness, good health and success. I know of no easy road to these goals. But one factor is self-evident—^success never comes with­out absolute int^rity and never-ending industry. Let your career in life be marked by rugged honesty, austere sim­plicity and loyalty to high ideals. 
As you leave this great University, take with you the faith represented by the serenity, and stability of this Insti­tution of Learning. Take with you the lessons you have learned and the prin­ciples that brought this Christian In­stitution into existence. You face un­charted paths that lead to oblivion or success. But, America is still free and we will win the war for Democracy if we unite and courag^eously march for­ward, because we are on the right side. 
Never was the opportunity for service to your God, to your Country and to inankind greater. If that service calls for the utmost in sacrifice, be proud that your intelligence, your training and your courage enabled you to do your bit for America's future. Let us dedicate our­selves to insuring freedom and oppor­tunity for those who follow you from the Halls of Notre Dame. Bemember that it has been written in the Holy Script— "And what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?" 
MISSING IN AaiON 
Reported missing in action are John 
v. Flynn, K.A.F. flier, and Ensign George K. Petritz, Navy patrol boat pilot in the Manila Bay area. 
John Flynn, who was graduated from Notre Dame with a Ph.B. in Foreign Commerce in 1936, has been reported lost in action by the English Boyal Air Force. While at Notre Dame, John was active in track, the Aviation Club, and the Foreign Commerce Club. He is a brother of Fred V. Flynn, '36, of Wash­ington, D.C. 

Ensign Petritz, of Rockford, Bl., at­tended Notre Dame in 1934-35. The brother of Joseph S. Petritz, '32, sports publicity director at Notre Dame, George was among those missing after the latest action near Manila. There is, according to recent word from the Navy Depart­ment, a strong presumption he has been captured by the Japanese. 
Ensign Petritz received national news­paper aedaim in this country several months ago when he piloted an Associ­ated Press reporter through the mine fields of Manila Bay. 
THE PRESlDENrS ADDRESS 
(Continued from page 12) 

comparable amount and thus to that de­gree could control it." "Or," Mr. Krock adds, "close it up." 
This is but another instance of the un­remitting attack being made upon Amer-can institutions by a little band of astute secularists who, in the name of expedi­ency, would destroy the rights of the individual. In a changing world the American heritage is in danger. But a fight will be waged to protect it. Notre Came, along with other privately-con­trolled universities, will wage that fight, because it is in the interest of basic truth. Notre Dame will not compromise with movements of regimentation whose purpose is to enslave the individual by making him the creature of the state. 
Peace of Justice and Charity 

Undoubtedly you are acquainted with many of these movements that are detri­mental to American life, I mention them tonight in order to bring them out in bold relief to the war we are fighting and the peace we hope to achieve. For that peace, when it comes, "must he a peace of justice and charity," to quote the Supreme Pontiff, based on a recog­nition of God and the natural rights of man. Otherwise, if this basic element is lost sight of, the exponents of regimenta­tion will have won the day. Let us direct our efforts and our prayers to this end, that the Spirit of God will hover over the peace negotiations so that another Versailles may be averted. 
In paying tribute to the War Class of 1917, all of whom I knew intimately, and in whose achievement I glory, and in welcoming to the alumni ranks the War Class of 1942, I am happy to say, to them and to all alumni, that Alma Mater, at the end of a century, has kept inviolate the heritage that Sorin be­queathed to her. Her cooperation with the government in the war effort is in keeping with her cherished tradition of patriotism. She has placed her facilities at the disposal of our beloved Command­er-in-Chief in the prosecution of the war, which, to use his own words, is being fought "to uphold the doctrine that all men are equal in the sight of God." And withal, she is still operating as a univer­sity dedicated to the Catholic philosophy —^the development of the whole man— which is the embodiment of American education. 
Much of what I could say about the work being done in both the graduate and the undergraduate divisions would be a repetition of what yoii already know from our own splendid publication, the Notre Dame ALUMNUS. And of course you have been told' about the celebration of the Centenary. We had planned a celebration befitting. Notre Dame, includ­ing a series of academic festivals which would bring leaders of the cultural and scientific world to the campus. Although we will celebrate the Centenary, we feel it would be a mistake to stress the fes­tive nature of the event when our na­tion is plunged into war. 
I believe, however, that you would like to know something about the problems w^e must solve at this turning point in our history. Notre Dame is challenged. She must provide facilities to train addi­tional thousands of young men for useful citizenship. Before ns lies an unequalled opportunity as a guardian of the Amer­ican, the Christian, heritage of educa­tion. But Notre Dame lacks the financial means to make the most of the opportun­ities that beckon to her. Yon know that our imrestricted endowment is only §1,010,000. Our income, which at best was never any too large, is constantly becoming more insufficient because of rising costs and decreasing enrollment. You ^vill be surprised to hear that last year's receipts exceeded expenditures by only $39,000. And this balance is only a bookkeeping fiction. It would have van­ished if we had made the deductions for depreciation in the graduate laboratories that ordinary accounting practice de­mands. This year, and perhaps for sev­eral years to come, even with the ever-present consecrated services of the priests and brothers supporting her, Notre Dame will be fortunate if she does 
not operate at a substantial loss. 
Place of Notre Dame 

I would be derelict in my duty if I did not tell you, as alumni, where Notre Dame stands. We have a place in Amer­ican life. We are needed as a stronghold of a belief in God, of the God-given rights of man, and the dignity of the human personality. Notre Dame, please God, will go on. But her ability to con­tinue . on a large scale to train young men in Christian citizenship depends upon the financial support of her alumni and friends who know and love Notre Dame, and who understand and appre­ciate her educational tradition. Because of this necessity, I ask you to give as generously as possible to the Centenary Fund. Your gift will help Notre Dame to stand like a rock against those who would destroy man, and make him a robot, an automaton, a glorified animal. 
Notre Dame has had dark days in the past. There were times when the found­ers not only had no money, bat no food; A jilagae of cholera once decimated the yonng coU^e; in the early years the threat of bankruptcy was ever-present. In 1879 a fire destroyed the work of a life time. But Notre Dame survived. And, please God, she will continue to survive, despite the attacks on the American heri­tage in a changing world. 
So, on the eve of our Centenary, as we dose one epoch and b^ ^ another, .we pledge anew our allegiance to the ideals that brought Notre Dame into being, and which have guided her aU these years. Imbued with the faith that can overcome all human obstacles, provided it be con­stant and supported by a labor of love and sacrifice; buoyed up by a hope based on that faith—a hope which rises above the earth to the things of heaven, we face the unpredictable future. Strong in the knowledge of the power of her who is the mediatrix before the Throne of God, we turn, as Sorin turned, to the Blessed Mother. I know of no better way of closing than by rei)eating to you his words as he viewed in retrasi>ect the con­secration of his work to her: 
"From that moment, I remember not a single instance of a serioits' doubt in my mind as to the final re' suit of our exertions, unless, by our unfaithfulness, we should change God^s mercy into anger; and upon this eonseeratum, which I felt was accepted, I have rested ever since, firm and unshaken, as one sur­rounded on all sides by the furious waves of a stormy sea, but who feels himself planted unmovably upon the moveless rock." 

God grant that Notre Dame and her sons be ever faithful to this noble dedi­cation. 
CELEBREZZE APPOINTED 

Frank D. Celebrezze, LL.B. '25, former properties director of Cleveland, was recently named safety director of the city. 
One of 10 children, Frank worked his way through school in Cleveland and through Notre Dame by waiting table and as a summer construction hand. After practicing law; for four years, he was appointed as assistant county pros­ecutor, and' as such figured conspicuous­ly in a drive against gambling. He left the prosecutor's office for a year to serve as a municipal judge, and retired last February to become properties director in Mayor Lansche's cabinet. Frank is the father of six children. 
98TH COMMENCEMENT 
(Continued from page 3) 

in spirit the alumni were as unaffected as ever, enjoying the crowded Saturday program, and contributing an atmos­phere of friendship and reminiscence to the Commencement that is otheraase by its annual changing make-up a rather transient event. 
Highlight of the alumni day, Saturday, was the alumni banquet, featuring the address of Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, president of the University. His Ex­cellency, Bishop Leech, and the members of Notre Dame's Board of Lay Trustees, were special guests at the banquet, as were the head officers of the U. S. Navy program on the campus—Capt. H. P. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Burnett, U.S.N., commanding officer, Lt. Com. John D. Shaw, U.S.N., executive officer of the Naval School program, and Lt. Com. William F. Bullis, U.S.NJJ., executive officer of the Notre Dame unit of the Naval E.O.T.C. 
Disappointments of the week-end were the absence of any members of the 50­year class of 1892, which lists many ac­tive and highly regarded alumni, whom combinations of circumstances kept away this particular date, and the Alumni Forums. Begun last year with some suc­cess, the pleasant day enjoyed this year and the fact that it was just a one-day program for the alumni combined to make the forums on Catholic Action and Catholic Education, t^vo vital problems. 
Many of tke lay tnatee* as well as the chief naval oSieen of the canipa* were saests at the awuul Alaani BaiKWt this year. Left to rizht in the top pictwe are Geoice L. O'Brien, WilUaii J. Coifeett, Paatauater GcBeral Fraak C. Walker, John H. Neeson, and Frank E. Herins. In the center pictue: r^pt.!.. B. P. Buaett, Bcr. Hash O'Donnell, C.S.C., Host Ber. George L. Lccfh, Toastmaster Tercace 
B. Gawxarc, Ahnmi Aawdation President Hsny F. Kelly, Byron V. Ksnaley and Peter C BeiBr. Bdnr ; licBttaant CaMBander John D. Shaw, Bcr. John J. CaTaaaach, C.S.C., Lieutenant Coa VniUaa F. BalBs aad J«hn P. Horphy. 
SO poorly attended as to cause the ad­journment of the afternoon forum while the crowd watched Prof. Jake Kline dem­onstrate the principles of Catholic edu­cation involved in having nine healthy Notre Dame men sock the elusive apple with their facile willows on the historic sod of old Cartier Field, and Prof. Bill Mahoney (now Lient, U.S.N.R.) illus­trate his theories of motion and speed with the aid of sundry 220, 440, 880, hurdle, shot, and other experts. 
The Alumni Office knows that many alumni would like to take advantage of opportunities for continuing intellectual contacts with Notre Dame. But the Of­fice feels that Commencement, particu­larly on this crowded schedule, is not the place. A separate Alumni College day or week-end, return of small groups of alunmi by departments, visits of profes­sors to the clubs for academic discus­sions, — there are many ways we can accomplish an objective that can only benefit alumni. What's your suggestion? Or preference? 
In the absence of hall residence, the Alumni Office arranged, through local class chairmen and the University, for class headquarters on the campus for Saturday. The 1922 class held forth in Classmate and Dean Pat Manion's Law Building. Walsh Hall and the K. of C. rooms sheltered Chairman Joe Boland and his 1927 men in the street. Dom Napolitano and his '32 boys were on a wheel-of-f ortnne that finally evaded gen­eral campus student storage and wound up in the Breen-Phillips ticket offices of the Athletic Association. Bemie Voll actually supplied the 1917 headquarters in his country home, although Breen-FhiUips was nominally the Silver Jubilee center. And 1937 kept the old formulas, functioning in the Engineering Building. These headquarters, the Alumni Office, and the smaller crowd, seem to have al­lowed everyone's path to cross everyone else's in more than the recent fashion, and to have restored a little of the older and perhaps more fraternal lack of class demarcation. The alumni banquet, ar­range on a catch-as-catch-can seating basis this year in the absence of ad­vance estimates, proved a very happy exhibit of the transcending quality of the spirit of Notre Dame. 
The new alunmi—the Class of 1942^ 

entered the alumni scene with a mantle 
of maturity already wrapped about them. 
The first five degrees awarded wMit to 
(Continned on patie 47) 
Texts of die Cimmrmttmimt address, the Baeealaareate SeiaMB. and the aiaani haB«aet address by Father O'DanneD will ha fsaad in ftdl in this isne af the 
Aixmsvs. , 

Military Note Stressed on U-N.D. Night 
Nineteenth Annual Event is Featured by "Meet Your Navy" Broadcast from the Gimpis; Qubs Join Everywhere with Military Representatives. 
The extent and variety of Universal Notre Dame Night, 1942, are told better in the colvunns of club news which fol­low than they could possibly be told in any other way. Please, therefore, read on and on, after these introductory words. The emphasis was, of course, on the military, and most fittingly. 
On the campus, April 17 had been des­ignated as the official opening day for the V-7 naval training school. With ap­propriate ceremonies and addresses, in Washington Hall, by Kev. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C., president, Capt. H. P. Bur­nett, commanding officer, and Command­er Gene Tunney, the 900 trainees were introduced to their new duties and to Notre Dame. Many photographers, out­of-town newspaper reporters and a news­reel company were present to record the day. 

At the "Meet Yoar Naiy" btMdcaat im tW Grmz Ltft t* ri^t. FaflKT Buki (yoma^ Scar Admiral Jolin Downes. Capt.' H. P. Bamett, aal Licat. PaweH. aide ta Admiral Downea. 
Early in the evening, the trainees, stu­dents, faculty, alumni of the St. Joseph 
part in the vast naval program. Address­

Valley and others gathered in the gym­BOSTON 
es by Admiral Downes and Father Hugh 

nasium for the Universal Night "Meet Riduid J. Dann. -18, ZH Wsreilr Are., 
O'Donnell, music by the Great Lakes 

Your Navy" broadcast, arranged through Newtaa, Ifaaa.. Prea.; Harry J. Bedutt, '31. 
band, orchestra and choir, by Lieutenant Saite 31t, 11 Beacon St , Boiton. See. 
the gracious cooperation of Rear Ad­
Commander Eddie Feabody and Seaman 

miral John Downes, Great Lakes, 111., commandant of the Ninth Naval Dis­Jess V. Gasaway and by the Notre Dame ' Universal Notre Dame Night here in Boston was band and glee club evoked enthusiastic held at the Hotel Statler. It was one ot the most 
trict, and the Blue Network and Station 
snccessfol parties tiiat oar local organization has 
praise, — at once from the seeing audi­

WLS, Chicago. ccmdueted in many years. 
ence, within a few days, .at the most, from widespread persons, especially 

The popular, coast-to-coast show had It -was only three weeks prior to April 17 'when 
alumni and alumni clubs and Notre 

for the first time been moved from Great Dick Dann as president, Paal Broderidc as vice Dame groups in training camps. president, Frank Biley as treasurer and myself 
Lakes as a recognition of Notre Dame's 
es secretary, got together. Within that three week period we were fortnnate in contacting Ber. Tamfi 
After the broadcast, the Navy enter­
W. Danakoe. C.S.C^ of North Easton, Haas.. 
tainers remained for an hour to stage a 

Ckarlea D. Macinnis of the well known architee-Navy "happy hour," for the audience of tural firm of Uaginnis & Walsh. Ueut. George G,000. Lieutenant Commander Feabody Bl. Powers. Jr.. U.S.N.R., officer in charge -of 
Navy recruiting in the eastern New England dis­
was master of ceremonies and his pres­
trict. Hon. Edmund J. Brandon, federal district 
entations, especially those in the swing 
attorney for the Boston area. 
mode^ evoked tumultuous applause. The session was closed with cheers for Notre 

K. J. Dana as president turned the meeting Dame and Navy, and the singing of the over to Jae SalliTatt (former roommate of Senator Victory March and the National Anthem. Worth Clarii. of Idaho), who acted as toastmaater. 
We all listened with great enthusiasm to the pro­gram from the campus. 
Thus the day at home. On the far fronts Notre Dame also celebrated the 

Our dub nnmhered approximately 60 and among Night—the first in wartime. The union those present were Falker Francis J. Garthnd, of God, country and Notre Dame was whom all of us remember as a cploidid prefect everywhere evident and military men of reUgioa of sane few years ago. Art HcHaa­
moa and JaA Saaadeis. Harry Harr, the present 
were ever3rwhere honored. It was, cer­

end eoaeh at Boston Coltege. Jsa GartiaBd, Back tainly, one of the greatest of Universal Haaler, track manager in '34. Jim Bswdren. well Notre Dame Nights. known track man of '35. Hack Bfaat. '24, Jim Cammaader. Gene Tanner Addreaaea Aadienee FItaceraU. '35. Jctry Crawley. '29 (Teaman 2nd Follawinc Broadeaat f ram tlie Notre Dame Campoa. Bead on! Claaa.-First Naval District). Pvt. Jafea Ckary 
Fort Andrews, Boston, Dr. Blanrice J. HcEUiKott, 
Eniicn Jack Lcbhen, '38, Paul HcManiu, '34, 
and Jim Hetbert, '18. Her e were many more 
present wliose names 1 liave failed to mention 
and trust they w-ill not be offended. 
Harry J. Rodictt, Jr. 

BUFFALO 
Joseph Danii, *32, 64 SmaUwood Drive. Sny­der, N. Y., Pres.; J. Paul Shecdy, '37, 147 Winspear Ave., Sec 

The Buffalo Qub got off to a late start for 1942 but it looks now like a banner year, ^ e new officers of tbe club were elected as follows: Joe Dann, *32, president to succeed Jack Travers; Dr. Bobert J. Bnms, vice president; J. Paul Shec­dy, *37, secretary. Jack McKendry, '38, treasurer. 
The board of governors, also elected March 27, is: Henty Weiss, Thomas Condon, Marty Travers, Jade Travers, John Else, Joe Battaglia, Joe Flynn, Carks Frank, Frank Bennett, Jr. 
Two of our past presidents are in service at present; Lionel V. O. Smith, somewhere in Eng­land with the R^F. , and Bill Cass, an ensign in Naval Ordnance in training at Notre Dame. 
The second meeting under Joe Dunn's direction really got things going again in the Buffalo Club. We sent out questionnaires to all members of the club in order to find out just a little bit about them and 'were more than surprised when a good bunch of them showed up for the meeting at Christ the King Church. "When we counted noses we found that all of these firilows -were there: Tom Condon, Don Jmcobi, Mike Shecdy, Dan Shecdy, Chock Nagel, Jack Hodson, Bill Davis, Henry Weiss, Carlos Frank, Joe Dnnn, Frank Bennett, Jt^n Else, Joe Flynn, Korm Baker, Joe Ryan, Bill Hall, Jade McKcndiy, Pete Wozniak, Paul Sheedy, Frank Cass. 
We had replies from a few of the boys who couldn't make the meeting. Paul Seaman, '33, of Middleport, N. Y., couldn't make the trip consid­ering that the tire situation is getting a bit tough but reported that Bill BSahar, '39, was some­
•where on tbe Pacific Tony Bride, '37, a judge in North Tonawanda was out of town but prom­ised &itbful attendance from now on. Frank Scfaiavone, was busy with the city physical educa­tion program. Dr. Bobert Bams, Jade Travers, and a few more were just plain busy. 
Among the plans made for the summer were a golf day in June and a family picnic in August. Definite plans for each of these days are being worked out. 
J. Paul Shecdy 

CENTRAL NEW YORK 
WUUun J. B3rme,"S7, 522 Stolp Ave, Syra­cDse, Pres.; Henry T. Hldcey, '39, 306 Cay­B2a St., Syrscnae, Sec 

The Universal Notre Dame Night broadcast was heard by club members in the studio of local broadcasting station WAGE which brought the program in via telephone and loud speaker. Din­ner at the University Club of Syracuse preceded the broadcast. 
Jacob Edcd and Jim Hnxford organized a party to visit veveral on the club's ack list, especially Leo Kellr» Dake Kinner and the DeLany brothers. lAter they adjoamed to Jade Tliorpe's, where they diaeovezed that BUI Byrne was having a party. ^l e evemtiB was concluded at Byrnes'. 
Henry F- Hickey 

The Notre Da me Alumnm 
Arnoos those attending the meeting were: Oka 

CENTRAL OHIO 
and EaaMtt Crawc^ AI r«itrlHiii, Flank Sweeney, ' Louis C BEurphy, '33, 2357 Livingston Ave* 
Sgt. Bab Baike. Bak BeidcaBp, Andy Barton, Coltunbas, Prcs.; Darnel F.'Cannon, "Sf, ft 
Fnmk Bneaan, Dwight Bncaan, John Uotting-East Broad St., Colnmbos, Sec haa. Bak Chenal. Kcd Vaatr, and Walt Nienaker. GonspiCDOos by their absence were Katt Tlwmes, 
The dub's annual Commimion Breakfast com­Jae Karrisaey, Bert SddoeiBer, Jeny Ciobman and memorating the death of Knnte Bockne was held a few others. 

March 29 at St. Charles College, Columbus, O. Several of the boys who just graduated are now 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated in the Army and some are doing their part in at the Dell Restaurant in Columbus, with the defense plants. Jade Bradkeiger and Howard Ro­national broadcast from the University enjoyed by han are the most recent to join the Army. 

those present, including: Don Haveridc, Dr. M. 
Walt Nienaber 

Dunn, Dr. Joe Hnghes, Tom Hughes, Harry Hughes, John Varley, Ray Eichcnlanb, Pete Vmx­ley, Ted Kremmer, Harry Ncster, Bad Harphy, 
CLEVELAND 
Jade and Dan Cannon, Jerry Basdmetaney, Frank 
Fox, Ed Bittiner, John McGlynn, Ed Horiarty, 
Charles E. Rohr. Jr., '30, 4024 Headowbrook Jack Flanagan, Bob Fortune, Ed Cantwdl, and 
Blvd., PICS.; Dr. Hyion E. Crawford, '32, «7I8 Franklin Ave., Sec 

Tom Mnrnan. Following the broadcast. Eddie CantweU, sales manager for the Taylor Tractor Company, showed films of the developments of 
Among those seen at the Cleveland K. of C. Army camps throughout the United States. Twelve 
track meet in March were officials John Flynn, Den Miller, Al Griianti, Ray Miller, Ed Goagh. 
soldiers from Ft. Hayes were guests of the dub. 
John Venakles and Vince Muphy- Jeriy Reidy 
Joe Rigney had a date with Uncle Sam's Army appeared as the coach of the St. James Parochial on March 2S. Lieut. Bobert T. Fortune is tem­School relay team which won its heat. Sitting porarily stationed in Columbus. ' with Tarstiy track coach Bill BEahoney were Pete 
Shethan, Frank Payne, Jade Hahoney, and 
Edward Moriarty, ex. *28, is practicing law with Chacfc Hacalaso. Jack is an assistant director the firm of Seidd and Moriarty, 39 "West Broad of the WPA and also attends John Marshall Law St., Columbus. Bad Bbirphy, our president, is School. Chuck teaches -school and -takes night busy at Columbus Coated Fabrics Corporation. coxurses in mathematics preparatory to enlisting And John D. Igoe, formerly of Elwood City, Pa., in V-7 for an ensign's commission in the Navy. has moved to Columbus where be is living at 
10S7 Hope Ave. One hundred and eighty-eight persons attended 
Dan F. Cannon* the Rockne Memorial Mass at St. Paul's Shrine on March 29, and the breakfast at the University Club. Among them were: Father Edward Seward, 
CHICAGO 
club chaplain; guest speaker Ellis Vanderpyle. 
John F. Clark, '35, 4738 Washington St., 

radio commentator; Greg Rice, and toastmaster Chicago. Pres.; Franklyn E. Doan, *2\ Sll John P. Harphy. Others present were: Ray, Don, 17th St.. WUmette, HI., Sec and Jeny Miller, Jerry Reidy, John Gleason, Jim Uprichard, Pat Canny, Al Grisanti, Clayt Leronx Rev. Jc^m J. Cavanaagh, C.S.C., vice-president and his father, Ed Gannon and his father-in-law of the University, was one of the principal speak­Jadge Hard. Ed Goagh, Frank Celebrezze, Marty ers as the club obser\*ed Universal Notre Dame Rini, Tom Conley, Art Gallagiier and father, Jim Night with an impressive dinner in the Palmer Begiey, Al Shipacasae, John Levicid, John Sporor, House. Other speakers were Marshall Field, found­Tom Perry. Jeny Hammer and father. Bob er of the "Chicago Sun," Capt. E. A. Lofquist, Strieker and Frank .Payne. Co-chairmen John chief of staff of the Great Lakes Naval Training Flynn and Jeny Miller are to be congratulated. 
Station; Lt. Col. W. H. McCarty of SLxth Corps 
Area headquarters. Fort Sheridan, III.; and Jahn 
F. Clark, president of the club. Dr. Dan O'Grady, Ilie Easter dance, April 6, had for its setting 
of the University, was the toastmaster. the spadous Mid-Day Club atop the Union Com­merce Building. John Batler was chairman, as­sisted by Stan Cofal, Bob Batler, Denny O'Neill, 
CINCINNATI 
Phil Prendergast. and Pete Champion. Ricjiard H. Shiels. ex. '33, 12SI Gcst St.. Pres.; Walter J. Nienaber, '37, 15S8 Eliza­It's a new baby boy at the John P. Batlers. 
beth Place, Sec Friends please note that Bob Batler has moved from Sloan Ave. to Woodbury Ave. Dr. Bud 
At our last meeting the members approved an O'Brien is contemplating an early marriage. Dr. amendment to the club constitution, which changes Haield Mailey. '37. from Fostoria, O., married a the officers of the Club from president, vice-presi­graduate nurse at Charity Hospital where he is dent, secretary, and treasurer to president, first interning. Also interning there is Dr. Bill Leiser, vice-president, and secretary-treasurer. At the '37, from Canton. same time it was asrreed that the officers move up in position each year until they eventually ChOi Walih, assistant coach of the Cleveland become president and are rewarded for the fine Rams team, was on a tour of the state, building work they have done for the club in the lower good will for the Rams. Loa Zontini, is working offices. at Thompson Products, as are Backy Ryan and 
Ed Sdmicter. The members enthusiastically approved a sug­gestion by President Dick Shiels to offer the ser­Father Seward completed his chapluncy train­vices of all club members, either as a group or ing at Indianapolis and is now -with the Army as individuals, to the Civilian Defense Committee Air Corps in Florida. to aid in the best way in the civilian defense program. Phil Prendergast and Dide Weppner have col­laborated on a chemical recovery process which Frank Sweeney offered to donate a service Bng 
has greatly aided the present war effort. Jim which will be presented to the club at the next ' 
Dabhs is with the Army in Alaska and Howard meeting. 
MiUer is stationed at Fort Lewis, Wash. 
Bob "Killer" Bnrke now a sergeant in oar Sergeant Jade Cellins' mother died on Easter armed forces at Camp Lee; Va., was home on a Monday. We extend our sympathy. 
furlough and attended the meeting. Bob had been 
accepted liy the Army Air Corps and will soon Jias Byrne's address is U. S. Marine Corps, Box 
leave for Maxwell Field, Ala., for basic training. 19 N.03. , Goantanoma Bay, Caba. Jim says that 
if he has not answered all letters is is due to delayed mails. Francis M. Payne 
At the annual business meetins held Blay 11. Chock Kohr, *30, was elected president of the club. Dr. Francis (Dolly) Gannon, '31, was chosen vice-president, Val B. Deak, legal student, treasurer, and the guy who can not supply a column for his own class, Crawford, secretary and special Cleveland assistant to Doolcy. Oh well, maybe they think I am exempt. Hie Rev. James J. Horan was elected chaplain, and Chndc Mooney was named chairman of a group which will plan activity on bdialf of our armed service members, in conjunction ^ with U. S. O. committees. A vote of thanks to retiring oflEicers Beidy, Upridiard* Gooch, and recently chosen but more recently selected Frank Payne, who leaves shortly for Navy duty. At the meeting we were glad to see recent graduates. Ed Weinfartner, '42, and Fred Payne, '42. Charles Kane, president of the campus club, told us of the aims of his group and offered us ways and means of cooperating in an all-out effort for Notre Dame men in service. 
Hike Crawford 
DALLAS (Texas) 
Walter L. Flemins. '40, 4349 Belfort Place, 
Pica.: Charies E. Meyer, '29, 4208 Stanhope, 
See. 
Notre ]>ame men of Dallas gathered for a most successful dinner on Universal Notre Dame Night at the Athletic Club. 
Hie' following: men were present: Walter Fkm­inc, Francis McCnlloasfa, William Crowley, Jim­mie Simmons, Arthur T. Simpson, William A. Grady. Fat Baell, Georce Becker, Jim Foley, Ed Haner, Bfike T.inehan, W. A. Defferari, John Nenlmff, Joe Fleming and Cliarley Meyer. Lieut. Tommy Listen, from Chicago, was present. He is with the Army Air Corps at Perrin Field, Tex. 
Because of their outstanding interest in Notre Dame, Joseph Foley and Joseph Fleming were made honorary members of the Dallas Notre Dame Club. Walter Fleming handled all the arrange­ments for the dinner and is to he congratulated on the fine work he did. 
New officers were elected: Walter Fleming, '40, president, and Charles E. Meyer, '29, secretary. 
Monthly- luncheons, held the first Monday of each month on the third floor of the Athletic Club at 12:15, will be continued. We had a fine turn­out last Monday. Present were Jim Walsh, Jim Swift, Joseph Foley; Jim Foley, Walter Fleming. Fred J. Fanst, Dr. Lloyd Bellamy, Pat Baell, Mike Linehan, and Charley Meyer. An outdoor barbecue for Notre Dame men, wives and sweethearts will be held at a private farm sometime in June. 
Joe O'Biyan, '29, and his wife, Bosemary, from Hepler. Kans., dropped in on me about a month ago. Joe is godfather to my baby girl. Patsy, bom Sept. 25, 1941. 
Fred Faost. '29, formerly of South Bend, and Leo J. Freitas, '32, formerly of Buffalo, are now living in Dallas. Charley Meyer 
DAYTON 
WIBiaa L. Strai t '36, S14 Barries Bids.. Free, and See. The club joined in the annual celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night on April 17. Ihrough the cordial invitation of Jadge H. U Femcding, '95, the meeting was held in his home. 
His two sons, John and TOM Feraeding of the Class of 1940. were unable to be present. They are now serving as ensigns in the United States Navy. Both John and Tom voluntarily enlisted in the 

The Notre Dame' Alumnus 
Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps and i time before the draft were commissioned. Jolm is communications officer on the IT. S. S. Presideiit Jackson, a transport, whereas l\im is oommunica­tions officer on the U. S. S. Astoria, a heavy cruiser. 
At the meeting it was disclosed that a good many of the Notre Dame lawyers are lervins as officers or on committees of the Daytm Bar ASK^ elation this year. Eagcne A. Mayl is now pred­dent, and Thomas H. Fard, treasnrer; Jaaeili B. Marphy is on the program committee, Hagh E. Wan, Jr., is chairman of the membership eon­mittee and WilUara L. StmA is chairman of the publicity committee. 
Daniel Mahoney, '34, recently arrived at Dayton from South Bend, with his family and is now in the publicity department of Wright Field in a civilian capacity. Dan Shoavlin and his family ' have moved' to Dayton from Springfield, O., and he is also serving in a civilian capadty with tibe United States Army here. Capt. DonaH J. WiUas and Capt. Elmer Odlins are with the United States Army here. Fred Laagfana is now with Chrysler Air Temp in Dayton. 
The election of officers was held and due to a change in the by-laws of the club, the offices of president and secretary were combined into one for the year. William L. Struck. '36 and LL.B.. '37, being thereupon elected president and secre­tary. 
Those in attendance were: James Cellins, '32; Robert Pohl. '41; Pete Beerastetboer. '28; Paal Swift. '18: E. Walter Baaman. '02; Bofcert Stone, '34: Dan Mahoney. '34; Robert Kennedy. '32; Fred Laughna. '33; Dr. Carlos Sawyer. '19; Andrew Aman. '30: Amos Clay, '15; Hugh E. WaS, Jr., '36; Elmer Focke, '11: Capt. Elaier CoIUns. '23; Capt. Donald J. Wilkins, '27: Jokn D. O'Biien, Jr., '41; Dan Shouvlin, '14; Eagene A. Hayl. '24; Hon. H. L. Femeding, '95. and W. L. Stradc. '36. 
William L. Stmck 
DELAWARE (New Club) 
E. J. Bafler. '34. 2324 Washington St., WO­mington. Pres.; John J. Vetkane. '35, ISI* Delaware Ave.. See. 
The following men have been elected to hold office for the year 1942-1943 in the new Notre Dame club of Delaware: E. J. Batler, '34, presi­dent; A. T. Mertes, '09, vice preadent; John Vetbanc Fh.D., '38, secretary-treasurer. On the board of governors: Robert J, Thomas, Ph.D., '39; Joseph K. Mcintosh. '37, and Harry M. Miller. '10. 
These men officially took office on Universal Notre Dame night on April 17. 1942. 
We have a list of 38 Notre Dame graduates residing in this vicinity. We would appreciate hearing of any Notre Dame man seeking employ­ment in the Wilmington area so that we may delegate some member to welcome him to town and help him in whatever manner we can. Six Notre Dame graduates are to be employed at the Jackson Laboratory of the du Font Company during this summer. It has been our privilege to. meet some of this group and it has been a pleas­ure to reestablish contact with the University in this manner. Thus far the armed services have claimed two of our members: Francis J. Hapkiaa. '41, Intelligence Division of the United States Navy, stationed at Philadelphia, and Blattia P. Kennedy, '32, United States Army, Aberdeen, Md. 
Jahn J. Teikaac 
DENVER 
John Hompkieys. '32. 1423 Bace St, Pits.: 
John Connell. '23. 2718 FUbaar* St , Sec. 
With commanding officers of the United Stataa Army, Navy, Marines, Air Corps, and Ooast Guard as guests of hcoor, the local lads eaUbcattd tta' most soeeosfdl Uidversal Kotie Baae Nitfht ia the history ot the Denver Club, 
Plresident Bait O'Hara did the hooon at the head table. CkaiNe Haahta was toubMstar, and Jska HowbRyx was genera] ehainnan with the help of his eomgittee HanT Inmmm, Base Be­drigwi; Al OVnn, and Ed 
Notre Dame's partidpatiao fn the V-7 naval training and the entire victory prograa koaoteJ the get-together. Already, nm e than aiMithird of the Denvtr ahmai ncnbers are is the scrviee ot their eonntiT. lU s year, as a tribute to them on Notre Dame Ni^t , Goodwill Ambassador H Miansfield sent special telegrams ia each Denver Notre Damcr at nilitaiy and naval bases in flia 
U. S. and uutpuets in BawaiL Without reveaHns too many "nUUtarr aseret^" here's some late re­ports from our far^Amg Denver alumni: 
Bed PagiUae has been transferred to an army camp down Dixie-land way- Jee Byn . cnrrcntly instructing at the Air Corps Tsit Field in Cali­fomia, received honors from his comman^nflT of­ficer for the skillfii] handling of his plane in a forced night landing in Arimna. JaA Atolt. Omck Caaaidy. Teat Ticiaey and Haaiie Leaky hold commisaons in the Army Air Coips. Tem Banr is in the Uannes and Hetk Faiiall is doing business with the same outfit over ia Hawaii. Ex-Denver Notre Darner, Jeka WaU . fonaer Boy's Town eoach, boadied his way to the Marines heavyweiiAt ehampiondiip at Qoantieo Base, Va. Richmond's Bak Haward' was transferred from Lowry Field to be a flying cadet io California. Frank Conway reported last time from a Texas army field. Leea Arcker is in defense work oa the Pacific Coast. Here in Denver, Teauay Catiigaa and Dick Netris are at the Remington Arms plant. Among the ahonni &om other elohs at local am y posts we have Jim Csniey. Haarica Caavetaa, and Jee •• 
On tlie eve ot Notre Dame's welcome to the V-T seamen. Columbia's Denver station. KLZ. joined with the Denver ND dub in salntinK this new training program.... aired a onarter hoar ot Notre Dame chatter with Chief Annooneer Mat­thew MeEaciaey. Bart O'Hara. ChaAe HaakcB. Bok Flyaa and Ed Ibasfcld. 
A] CMeara, back from a pow-wow vnth De­troit's antmaobile big-wigs, stopped oS at the campus. Hsd a visit with Jerry ODewd, who has been'aeecpted for naval training at Abbott Hall, Jim MeCeHricfc. asA BiU Maaaey. and bad hmdi with Jack OVaDty, BID Dee. and Bod CFaflaok 
Frank SaUae has been recently promoted to assistant general superintendent ot the Amerieaa Crystal Sugar Cooipany. Bok Lee is with tba Littleton. Cola, National Bank. Vni fia*aiit operates one ot the classiest, best-equipped bowl­ing alleys in town. It's quite an attraction on Thursday ni^ t for the pin-men, CkaAe Haakril. Laaia Heogk. Bill Dick, Frank Kirckaua, et aL 
Recent elections for the coming year pot the folhnring men in office: President Jaka Ifam phreya; vice^resident, Geae BUsh; secretary. Jaka CaaadI: treasum. Al Ooads; class representatives to the board of directors, Fred Goaharst, CkaiBc Haafan. and Jadi Skeekan. 
GeaeBBdk 
DETROIT KakebB P. Baaai^ •M. StT Gams Pras.; Thsedsia P. luuBaa* "M. Caoatr SUg^ Sec 
With a fine tumont ot between 75 and 100 niim bera and guests the Detroit Club held its Ualiiiaal Notre Dame Night celabratioa at the WhUUar HbteL Chairman Mare VerUsst dU a oMbaiteK job by bavins not jnat one gnaot ot hoaar.kat three; Th«f were Fklkar Praak Gavauagh. Sus r Kdlr. president of the Alumni Association who was unable to attend the main party at school, and laeut. Commander Coon who at the present time is attached to the Naval Armory here in Detroit. Uent. Com. Coon hrought Avith him En­sign E. H. Fieuning-. who is not an alumnus of Notre Dame but is a native of Indiana. Yeoman 

J. J. Gomtan, Jr., unawed hy the presence of Lieut. Com. Coon told the boys of his duties at the Armory. Asistant Coach Ed Krau&c save the boys a preview of what to expect from the foot­ball team nes^t'year and showed that he is quite adept at panying leading questions, and that seems to lie a requisite for a good coach. Biffy l*e, -who is chairman of the committee entrusted with the job of increasing the unrestricted en­dowment gave a talk on that subject which should be used as a model for all comnuttees thus en­gaged. 
Charies Crecvy, father of John Crec\T who is doing such a fine job as understudy of Bcrtelli, was also present with a brother of John. Dick Walsh, who has just moved to Detroit from Schenectady, N. Y., attended his first meeting of our group and indicated that he hopes to be active in all future activities of the club. 
Hie only disappointing feature of the whole eve­ning was the fact that the local station which was to carry the program on the national hookup was unable to do so and the radio we had could not get any outside station carrj-ing the program. 
John Annas has been appointed di^rman of the annual golf party which is to be our next activity. Ted Feldraan 
FORT JACKSON. S. C. 
Universal Notre Dame Night gave those of us here at Jackson a chance to get together. The Notre Dame alumni here and in Columbia, S.C., achieved a brilliant program hy virtue of grand help given us by Rex Enright, '26, and Ted Two­mey, *30. These men, the only alumni living in Columbia, a^de from Father Thomas J. Mackin, pastor of St, Francis De Sales Church, were in­valuable, without them we could have done but little. 
We met at the Wade Hampton Hotel, where we had a splendid dinner. Station WCOS dropped their regularly scheduled program and carried the 
N. D. broadcast. The hotel arranged to have us listen. Hiose Notre Dame tnen attending were: Paul Young, '40; Gzorse Horn, '40: Ray Troy, '24; Ray Geicer, *32; Rev. Thomas Mackin, Rex Enriciit, Ted Twomey, Bernard Beilly, '35, and John Cliurke, '38. 
Limt Wmimm Clifford, '38. of the 102nd Cav­alry, had planned to be vn\h us but had to be operated on at the fort hospital the day before. Fortunately he •was able to hear the national program. 
A visitor and for-a long time the only N. D. 

rooter in Columbia, J. H. Duffy, was our invited 
guest, and a couple of sports writers sat in. 
Ray Gciger 

HARRISBURG 
Tfcaiai L. Catanso, '24, Cannon Shoe Com­panr. HcShenratawii, Pa., Pru.; Hany P. BMAH, '17, 25i4 North Sth St, Sec 

At the lesnlar meetine in the Engineers Society dub roou on Universal Notre Dame night the following offioera vere elected for the ensuing year: IWmaa L. Garfanco, McSherrystown, Pa.. Ptdident; Jaaeik A. IIcBnxli, vice president: Edmr l C. SaiUi. Sr^ treasurer: and Harry P. BKdi«,'aeeTetaiy, all from Harrisbnrs, Pn. 
The usual attendance %vas noticeable vdOi the addition o{ John B. HcGnii, Hinersville, Pa., who is temporarily located at the New Cumberland Army Keception Center. HcGurl visited Rod GOBa, his classmate, vrho resides in Camp Hill. 
Titomas Ziesler, '39, Derry, Fa. is stationed at Army Reception Center, New Cumberland, Pa. Austin Wall, '39, was reported as heine in the 107th Field Artillery, Battery A, Camp Livingston, Xia. Paul HcArdle, *39, temporarily located at the 3E{eception Center was transferred to the Air Corps, Biloxi, Miss. Frank GiUs, ex. '42, Camp Hill, is home on furlough preparatory to entering Air Corps Officers Training School. 
T. L. Cunningham, *30, stationed at Army Re^ ception Center. New Cumberland, for several months expects to be transferred to the Signal Corps, Fort Monmouth, N. J. Harry H. Kdim. '22, Lancaster, Pa. was reported stationed at Fort .Tofferson. T. L. Cronin. '39. who has been sta­tioned at the New Ciunberland Army Beception Center many months informs us that he was married to Miss Geraldine Wise, Pittsburgh, cn-April 11, 1942. 
Harry P. Brealin 

GREATER LOUISVILLE 
Joseph Donaldson, '23, 613 Wataca Drive, Pres.; A] Saleb, '34, 3102 Sora, Sec 

Universal Notre Dame Night -was celebrated in Louisville by a banquet, featuring the radio broad­cast from the campus and guest speakers. The gathering was the club's most successful In years, with 42 members in attendance, and seven guests. 
Following the broadcast and dinner President Hollenbacfa announced the new officers, elected hy ballots sent via the mails. The new officers are: Joseph' Donaldson, president; Ed Pfeiffer,, first vice president; Walter Kenney, second vice pre^­dent; Al Saleb, secretary; and Tom BaOcit, treasurer. 
Bill Sherwood was master of ceremonies, and introduced PvLWalter Hasen, Jr., and Major Nestor of Fort Knox; Rev. Felix Pitt; and Rev. Bro. William, C.F.X.. principal of St. Xavier High school. Ix}uisviIIe. 
Lt. Commander Escott. 'U.S.NJB.. in charge of navsl recruiting for the state of Kentucky, ad­dressed the members on procuring men for the Navy. 
Father Horphy, Louisville pastor and com­mander of the Jefferson Fost of the American Legion, spoke on the contributions Catholics will make in the war. 
The final address of the evening was delivered by Dr. Irvin Abell, distinguished surgeon. Laetare Medalist in 1938, and former head of the American Medical Association. The remainder of the evening was ^voted to informal discussions. 
The new officers plan to conduct the club on a simplified schedule, in keeping with wartime con­ditions. The social program will remain un­changed, but the number of regular meetings will be cut. 
Charles G. Morrow 

JACKSON. MICHIGAN 
Lyaan H. Hill. Jr., '29, 5202 U.S. 127 South, Ptes.: Leon T. Bassell, '17, 118 S. Webster St. Sec 

A stag meeting was held by the club at the K, of C. home on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Lyman H. Hill, Jr., was elected president and Leon T. Rassell, secretary and treasurer. Les Wiida 
KANSAS CITY 
Jodge BOSMII C Hardy, 'IS, Pres.; Vincent DcCaney. '39, 4S40 Jarfaoc, Kansas City, Mo., Sec 

After a series of preliminary meetings, and discussions, the Kansas City Club announced its reorganization and new policies on Universal Notre Dame Night at a meeting held in the Ofli­cers Club of the Phillips Hotel. 
Jadce RnsicII Hardy, of Kansas City, Kans., a former great on the cinder track at Notre Dame (having held a few track records that stood for over ten years until beaten by Jadt Elder during his days on the campus) was elected president by unanimous vote. He announced his intention of 
In Rcognition of his portrayal of Sack ia "Kprte Ttitai—All ABOkaB." Pat O'Srien waa 
presented wilh an iUwainated icndl by Uic PUIadeMria OA wktm he appealed ia FfeilaidpUa recently 
on a tour for Army-Navy Relief. Left to richt are Jaha H. Nima , lay (rwtee of the Unlvenity; 
William A. A. Caatellini, secretary of the O'Brica rtwpaoa i—lll«ie; Pat.03rieai R BraOer' Bailey, president cf the Philadelphia Cbb: and Danid H. Toaac, chainua of the RcepUan eaaauttec 
eondvetins the dob to foster "better feeling, a closer spirit of fellowship, and an atmosphere of mutual cooperation among the members." 
Other oQ^cers elected were: Tom Beardon, vice-president; George HeLioer. treasurer; Vincent DeOMney. secretary. Eev. Arthur M. I^ghe Mias selected as the club chaplain. 
At the TTniveraal Notre Dame Night meeting, with around 30 in attendance, a short business meeting was held immediately after the program's close. Judge Bardy stated the objectives of the club and it was planned to hold monthly meetings on an informal basis in the Ixmnge of the Officers. Club of the FliiUips Hotel. 
Among new discoveries at the meeting—^Wally Becker, who used to, after a fashion, check in the first fioor in St. Ed's once upon a time, is doing social work in our fair city. Gerald J. Smith* of Bochester, is the manager of the Phoenix Uutual Life Insurance Co. here. 
Lieut. Fnuik leun is with the Quartermaster Corps and is stationed right here in Kansas City. 
Tom Reardon is no longer a Kansas Citian, Chicago claiming him. Tom Higgins and Al 
' Scfamitz are awaiting the army's call; we haven't been able to get in touch vrith Norm Bowes, and it is possible that he might he in the ariny now; at any rate he was expecting to go soon; his brother. Rich, has been in for some months now. Ernest Haurin is now with Douglas Aircraft in 
Santa Monica, Calif. Vlnce DeCoursey 
LOS ANGELES 
John W. Carberry. '35, 943 S. Detroit, Prcs.; Michaa F. Shannon, Jr., ex. *Z9, 4311 Vic­toria Park Drive, Sec 
Nearly 100 Notre Dame graduates and former 

- students, now living in Los Angeles and environs celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night at a din­ner at the Elks Club, April 17. 
After listening to a transcription of the Na-. tional Broadcast, which was not released locally by the Blue Network, there was an election of officers. Jchn W. (Judge) Carberry, member of Knnts Rockne's last squad and teammate of Coach Frank Leahy, was elected president; Rev. George Scott, chaplain; Ed Ashe, vice-president; and Bficfaael F. Shannon, Jr., secretary and treasurer. 
Alumnus Frands Wallace, nationally known sports-writer and author, who is now in Holly­wood writing a. musical comedy, was guest speaker. Others who spoke were: Thomas A, J. Dodcweilcr, Superior Judge A. A. Scott, Frank Barry and Jim Cooney. 
The club has scheduled an active year for the 1942-43 season, and the first meeting will be a Communion-Breakfast on May 17. The Mass will be held at St. Paul's Church for the success of the United Nations victory, and more especially for the protection of our members and friends in the armed services. Ttin will he followed by a breakfast at a nearby restaurant. 
We are also looking forward to an early visit from Coach Frank Leahy, and are planning a banquet in his honor. Other events already "sched­uled tentatively include a dinner-dance and a 
picnic. Hidiael F. Shannon, Jr. 
NEW JERSEY 
PUIip J. Heinle. '35. 132 N. Arlington Ave., East Orange, N. J.. Pres.; Toby Kramer, ex. '3C. Ut Orange Boad. Hontdair, See. 

The dob's Universal Notre Dame Night cele­bration, under the guidance of co-chairman Clark BeyiwU* and Nona Jandoli, with swell assistance from Ptesident John Winkenr. was a great suc­
cess. Commissioner Joaepk H. Byrne did nobly as toastmaster. Ensign Kelly spoke on the ckiM relaUozisbip between the Navy and Notre Dame. Eniign Francis A. Halhcm was at the head table. 
At the Hay meeting the following dub officers were chosen: Piiil Heinle^, president; Clark Beyw nolds, vice-president; Toby Kraacr. secretary; and Pete Qainn, treasurer. B«h Phdan and VUk Derricks were chosen trustees for a three-year period. 
1 appeal to all New Jersey members who have not been receiving meeting notices or who have had changes of address in recent months to notify me via the Robert Treat Hotel in Newark, 
N. J., so that I may be able to correct the mail­ing list. 
The following is a list of New Jersey N, D. men in service as far as my records show. Til appreciate having any changes or additions: 
Vita V. BeOino '39, Salratore A. Bontempa '32, William B. Brana '37, Bernard K. Crawfatd '40, Martin P. Cnsick '37, James Patridc EngUsk '37, Earl T. Edelen '37, James A. Foccity '34, Jamea 
E. Fagan '34, Thomas J. Flynn '35, PbilUp C. GaBetta '38, Raymond A. G«ger '32, Paal E. Hidcey '40, William P. Kramer '41. Edward S. Kirfey '36, Joseph S. liaore '37. Dr. Francis J. Hurray '36, William S. Harrar '40, Joseph N. Harranca '41, James W. Hnlheni '38, Joseph X. SIcKeon '40, John HcGinley '36, E. Doaglas O'Biien *28, John A. Pindar '40, William F. Qoitk '36, Bernard J. Reilly '35,.Fried]ey A. Boas '30, David E. Repetto '40. RosaeU A. Biley '28, William 
J. Small '40, Benjamin M. Sdierer '37, Anthony 
P. Serge '37, Robert F. Sayia '40, Raysiond W. Tray '34, Thomas V. Wade '33, Phillip M. Wade '40, nomas A. Wslker '39, William Baymond Walsh '31. 
Toby Kramer 

NEW YORK CITY 
Joseph G. Friel, '29, Hotel Woodstack. 127 
W. 43rd St., Prrs.; Timothy J. Toomv, '3*. Hotel Woodstock. 127 W. 43rd St.. Sec 

Joe Friel, '29, officially took over his duties as skipper of the club at the March meeting held at the Woodstock. He outlined plans for the Club activities for the year. The custom of awarding door prizes at all monthly meetings will he con­tinued. T^vo boxes of "cough syrup" were donated for the March meeting by a well Imown local "druggist." Rumor has it that future prizes will include a one pound package of sugar and a gallon of gasoline. 
The guest speaker at the meeting was Assistant 

U. S. Attorney John M. Cannella who talked on narcotics and the place this drug has played in the Far Eastern war to date. Dan O'Neil, '25 was again appointed to head the Scholarship Award Committee. Assisting him will be Bill Heam. '27; Jim Dwyer, '26; Jchnny Bums. '31. and Sig Sloszka. '35. 
The 11th Annual Rockne Memorial Mass and Communion breakfast was observed on March 29. Requiem Mass was sung at St. Francis Asissi Church. The celebrant was Rev. Cassian Kirk, O.F.M.. brother of Wilfrid Kirk, *33. Following the church services, club members and their friends enjoyed a breakfast in the Hotd New Yorker. Prexy Joseph G. Frid, '29, welcomed the gather­ing. General Chairman J. Harvey Daly. '29, intro­daced Jack Elder, '30, C.Y.O. athletic director in Chicago; Rev. Vincent Jeffers, assistant director of the Propagation of the Faith; and Hon Mathiss 
F. Correa, U. S. Attorn^ for the southern district of New York, who spoke. 
With wives, sweethearts and mother-in-Iawa present as guests for the first time. Universal Notie Dame Night dinner held at Hotel Woodstock on April 17, proved to he one of &e most fol affairs ever spwsned by the dob. 
Tram the opening whisUe tooted by Prezy Jas Fiid nntil the dodng eloquent plea for national unity by Walter Oibcfe. '21. the prasram B>o««d with smoothness and svriftness. General Chairmaa Jaacs K. CamB, '31. and his committee distrns a pat <m the back. for the viendid task they performed.' 
Walter O'Keefe was a brilliant master of cere­monies. Miss Helen Gleason. Metropolitan Opera' and N3.C. star, sang the National Anthem. The following honored guests spoke feelingly on the significance of the affair and of their respective relations \rith Notre Dame: Hon. 'William O'Dwy­er. district attorney. Brooklyn. N. Y.; Lt. CoL 
L. Me. "Biff" JiHies. U.S-A., business manager of athletics. West Point; Major George Fielding Eliot, prmninent military analyst; Lt. John Casey, U.S-N., representing Secretary of the Navy Kaox; Charles B. DriscoU and L L. Stevenson, nation­ally syndicated newspaper columnists. Billy SaDI­van. a member of the Brooklyn baseball dub, and Greg Skew '39, the world's greatest middle distance runner, both spoke briefly. 
There were at least 40 Notre Dame men present in uniform representing all branches of the armed forces. Msny of these "Fluting Irish" were gnests of the club. 
Due to the limited seating capadty of the dining room a number of dub members who failed to make advance reservations, were unable to secure seating accommodations. 
'Hie attractive souvenir journal caused much favorable comment and was a credit to business and editorial staff of the New York "Alumnus." 
ToBB TooBier 

PEORIA Alexander L. Shan, IT. 23S N. Uadeitill. PRS.: E. J. Fbaagaa. '37. 217 M. Chuaaad. 
- See. 

Elawr Gory was chairman of the wdl-attesded Annual Universal Notre Dame Nl^ t banquet held at the Jefferson Hotel. A loud speaker arrange­ment permitted bearing of the radio broadcast from the University campus. The dinner was followed by Ed McKeever's fine talk explaining the new Navy program at Notre Dame. He fol­lowed his talk with films of the complete Notre Dame-Navy football game, giving a running ac­count of the actual play and interjecting a little of his 'good Texas humor. A reception was held after the banquet. 
Al Grfaui was home on furlough from Camp Callan, Calif, a fei^ weeks ago. He expects to be admitted to Officers' Training soon. 
George Prcstsa enlisted in the Army Air Corps recently and was sent to Scott Fidd. Belleville, HI. George had been working with Caterpillar Tractor Co. since his graduation in 1940. 
E. J. Flanagan 

PHILADELPHIA 
Adrian J. Wacfcerman, '35. 5356 Chew St , .Pres.: Clifford E. Prbdehl. '32. 6070 Chester Ave.. Set. 

The sidewalk superintendents saw Dan Yoanc*s film epic on drydock construction at the Warwick. And the picture was entertaining as well as edu­cational. We understand now why Dan is a leader in his field. 
About 50 of us gathered at the Addphia on the anniversary of Bsihai'a deafli. Father Flynn. pres­ident of Bosemont CbOege. and Father Fariar. our diaplain. spdie. Afterward we were treated to a movie on the piugieas of aviation. 
Universal Kotre Dame Ni^ht was held at the Hotel Philadelphisn with well over 100 in attend­ance. Prexy Ed Baiky introdnced speaker Dan Towif who r^ted more of the history and lore of Notre Dame than we had ever heard. The Army was r^resented by Major Dnr&ld C Jackson, Jr., erstwhile dean of our Collese of Engineering, who stressed the cooperation of Notre Dame with the government in the war effort. Captain I4- M. Stevens won the club's friendship by his sincerity in spealdng of the closeness of the Navy and our University. 
Pat Kane assembled the musical lads for the playing of the "Victory March." 
Greetings and welcome to the Quaker City are in order for Phil Welch, Bill Moss and Paul Howe who appeared on the local scene recently. 
Ber. John Molter. CS.C, is connected with the Newman Club at the University of Penna. John Necson, Jr. is back in Philly after several months* work in Washington for Uncle Sam. Jack BeiDy has joined our happy group at the Na\-y Yard. 

Ed Bailey in^t s yoimg Ed inherits his bril­liance from his mother. This enabled young Ed to place first in a scholarship competition with 400 others at Drexel Institute, in the first four at St. Joseph's College where 250 competed and to win at Villanova and I^Sallc Colleges. Despite all this young Ed will show up at Notre Dame. 
Bryan Hayei grabbed the local sports headlines when he led the delegation to Shibe Park to honor Connie Mack. 
When the Hollywood Victory Caravan reached here for the Navy League Show our club awarded Pat O'Brien a Certificate of Merit for his por­trayal of Bockne. 
Cliflf Prodehl 

ROCK RIVER VALLEy 
James Balea, '37, 315 Dixon Ave., Dixon, m.. Pica.; John Lahey, '28, 314 Madison St.. Dixon, HL, Sec 

At our annual meeting held at the University Club in Bockford, Dl., on Universal Notre Dame night, about 35 roeml>ers were present, consisting of alumni from Bockford, Dixon, Rochelle and Sterling. 
After the dinner we enjoyed a short talk by Captain Moore, ex. '30. of the Medical Replace­ment Center at Camp Grant. Tlie annual election of oncers was held at which James Bales, '37, was elected president, Al Monti, vice-president, and John Laliey,''28, secretary-treasurer. The re­tiring officers were Charles Vaughn, president, Al MJonti; secretary-treasurer and Robert LcSage, vice-president-
Since the election of officers took place Jim Bales has received a commis^on as ensign in the United States Navy and leaves for Boston. Mass.. May 18. From there he will go to Little Creek, Va., for training and then back to Brooklyn, N.Y. We wish him luck. 
The club decided to hold the annual picnic this year on the first Sunday in August. John "Red*' Lahey 
SANDUSKY 
Jokn J. Millott. ex. '27. 913 Osborne St., Ptes.; Jalui E. Sanid, '40, 705 Feidc Bnild­ins. Sec 

On Hay 6, we held oar annual dinner meetine for the m^ben , their wives, and their snests. Twenty-fonr from the Sandusky and Norwalk area were present, and all asreed that the committee in charge, Chatiea Haadi, '25, and John Saroid, '40, had done a fine job. 
Members present included Ftesident Jahm MB­lott, Fakr Donahae, Joaeph Sintler. Geaote Sia*­ler, Ckarlea Haack. Jadce Edmaal Savacd. Dew T. 
H. QoUter. Rouell Smith, and John Saracd, all of Sandusky: and Thomas H. Brown, Alkrt Faaa, and Clifford Brown, of Norwalk, O. 
John E. Sani4 
SOUTHWESTERN CONNEaiCUT 
John MoUo^, '29, 115 Ashley St , Btidgepart. Pres. 
Harry "Stretch" Norris is in on the ground-floor with General Motors new aircraft production in New Jersey and he is planning to be married May 30 to Clare Pelath. 
Larry Schmidt left General Electric to KO back to Booneville, Mo., for a few weeks before jcunins the Army.... Portland's Eddie O'Donnell is chief Navy representative at Jenldns Brothers Valve Co.. in charse of new buildiner construction and alt inspection, with superintendents, vice preMdents, and all eatinsr out of his hand. 
Gresr Rice dropped up for a visit recently—still eating enough for six people—and still trying to keep the toy business, and now a war production, going for Louis Marx in New York. 

John Lake UcGninness drops over from Water­bury occasionally and, contrary to the recent report in the "Alumnus." is not in the Army, but working harder than ever seven days a week on war products for the Waterbury Clock Company. 
This is probably my last report as secretary of the Bridgeport crew, for I just received my com­mission as assistant paymaster, ensign in the Naval Eeserve. and expect to be called very shortly. Am looking forward to the prospect of seeing a lot of the boys in the service and begins for the possibility to a training stretch back at the campus. 
Dave Hakm 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
Clarence W. Hardins, '23, South Bend Trik­
nne.' Pra. ; Joseph W. Nyikos, '23, Court 
House, South Bend. Sec 

The annual Rockne Memorial Mass was held in the chapel in Dillon Hall on March 29. with 
The annual scholanhip to Nette DaiM eCaral by the St. Josepk VaDcr anb was tkis yew awarded to Jaha F. Kiaaer. of South Bead, a graduate of Central Higk School, wha ia ikawm here. Left to tifht are, J. Frank Hiles, dairaa a of the dak ukebmkip csmmittee: Fraulc W. Lloyd, Univendty eaoiptnlkr, whs was m jajgi in the (diaUnUp cnapetitiea: Hr. Kinney: O. H. Swikart, a Judge; Fnd N. SmiA. a jadge; aal Clarence W. Harding, president of tke dak. Twa bteakfaat followine at the faculty dinins room. About 100 members of the dob and friends at­tended. Jee Pctritz was toastmaater and Jae Balaud, the principal speaker; Walter Lancfoid was ehiUrman of the affair. 
After the breakfast the alumni and the Mono­gram Club visited the Bockne grave at the High­land Cemeterr and placed a wreath on his grave. Fatker Ckarlea Carey, C.S.C.. the chaplain, saying brief prayers. 
Since the national radio program on U. N. D. Ni^ t originated on the nearby campus, the club members participated in it, and did not have a separate observance of the occasion as in previous years. Many local alumni were among the large audience which enjoyed the "Meet Your Navy" half-hour and the informal hour of entertainment which followed it. 
Hie alumni elnb and the Faculty Club at Notre 
Dame will join forces for a splendiferous sports 
day on the campus on June 13, vrith golf featured. 
Herk Jones is the general chairman. 
Joseph W. Nyikos 

TOLEDO 
Hsik John Q. Carey, '27, Mayor of Toledo, 92* Edison Bldr., Pres.: Thomas J. ScUefer, 'S7. Liherty Hickvay Co.. 211-13 Lucas SL, Sec 

After a short lapse in activities the club re­somed with a get-together for Universal N. D. night. Hie turnout was exceedingly fine on short notice. 
We were honored by Hike Timmons, *31. who is stationed at the Naval Armory, and Clyde Archer, '40, who is stationed at Army Induction Center. 
Our dub preadent. Mayor John Carey, was in the hospital with an old football injury of his leg so OUT able vice-president, Harry Detzer, Jr., assisted by Bak Schrunm. carried out the arrange­ments for our meeting. 
We all listened to our University's president's stirring address and were proud to be a part of patriotism that belongs to Notre Dame and its men. Ficd Sprenger, Toledo's haberdasher extra­ordinary, was honored as the outstanding young 
Mn a mia akaemt whca Urn tfctar* was taken: Judge J. Ebuer Peak aad Otto A. PfaC 
Wactk «8H in cadt plaa *39* in employment atMt at tte Calvcrsitr. Ike sekalarshlp provides the laige Buiarity • ( lands necessary for a day atadtaf a dgkt-acaMater caarae at Notre Daasc Mr. Baacy wfll •atrirulate in aersaaatieal engineer-lag BCst ^fptemktr. Funds for tke sffcalsrAip are itOnt latgdy tnm tke aaaaal faatoall kanqaet 
ky Oe dak. 

man of Toledo and rightfally deserving of the honor he is. Tkomu J. Scfaiefer 
TUCSON 
Ted A. Wllx, ex. '2», Box 628, Fra. : Psnl Darmd, '25, ISII E. Second SU Sec 

Ciimrles O. WcUbacfaer, *4D, has returned from & ten day furlough. He spent all the available time at home in Cleveland. Charles is now Sergeant Weilbacher, in the 3^3 Material Squadron, Davis-Monthan Held, Tucson, 
The new address of Vin Hengesbadi is Box 427, Fort Baiid, N. H. PBQI Dafaud 
WABASH VALLEY 
Edwin J. Dewenter, ex. '22. 705 Highland Ave.* Lmfayette, Ind. Pres.; William R. Barr. *26» Chalmers. Ind', Sec 

A recent letter from Bob Riordan. a major in the U. S. Army stationed at Purdue University, brought news of the club's Universal Notre Dame Night celebration held near Delphi, Ind. 
At the meeting Ed Dewenter was elected presi­dent; Jndce Emmett Ferguson, vice-president; and Bod Barr, secretary-treasurer. Others present were Bob MoMman. Daffy Watson. Francu M. Moore, Hike Ri^s. Sumner Ditton. Fanl Pierce, Tommy Ward, Paol Kennedy. Balfe Wagner. John Hamlin. Jim Coffield, Jim Rainier, and Major Rtordan. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
John McMahon, '28, 446 Long Bidge Drive, Meant Lebanon, Pa., Pres.; William H. Cin­der, Jr., '31, 504 Gettysburg St., Pittsburgh, Pa., Sec. 

Hugo lacovetti, '34, sends alons a card from Camp Lee, Va., that his new address is: 1st Platoon. Biittery D, 11th Bn., 4th Training Regi­ment, F.A.RT.C., Fort Brags, N, C. Hugo and his family have our sympathy on the recent death of his father Addresses: Pvt. J. P. Monteverde, Third Training Bn., Co. A, Camp Wheeler, Ga. Pvt. John W. Patterson, Jr., Fourth Training Bn., Co. C, Third Intelligence Platoon, Camp Wheeler, Ga. 
John Ference passes along the info that Jerry Smith of Forest Hills is a corporal in the Ord­nance I>epartnient at Luice Airfield, near Phoenix, Ariz. Jerry lives at 2342^4 TVelfth St., Phoenix and commutes the 20 miles to the airiield. 
Larry O'TooIe, *3S, has been in the army several months. He is in Co. A, Bldg. P-433, 7th Quarter­master Training Regiment, Camp Lee, Va. 
Walt Kristoff, '41, reported April 14 to Fort Monmouth, N. J., -where he'll be in officers* train­ing and will specialize in aircraft warning. Jim McKalty has been transferred from Fort Benning. Ga., to Daniel' Keld, 68th Material Squadron, Augusta, Ga. 
Jim Devlin has been transferred by the Personal Finance Company from Butler to Washington, Pa. Mr. and Mrs. are residing in the Keystone Apts., Second and Donham St., Washington, Pa. Norb Hixenki of Chicago is now in Pittsburgh, working for the Process Beiuipment Office of Bla^vnox Steel Company, as a designer. Norb hopes to have his wife and three sons here with him soon. Al Diebold vacationed in Miami, Fla., for several weeks. Upon his return, several business trips kept Al moving about the country. E. Conley of Johnstown is now vrorking for Dun and Brad­' street, whose offices are in the Chamber of Cam­meree BuiUing, Pittsburgh. Ed has come to sev­eral of the 'Hiursday luncheons. Bemie Conroy 
passes along the word that Bill McCdUck, a classmate of his, is working for the U. S. Em­ployraent. New Kensington, in which office Ben^e also works. Ed Hallaaer is now with the Baker Engineering Company, at Padneah, Ky. 
The Bob Kvatsaks are now well settled in tbor new home at 719 Catsworth Ave., Avalon. Jsia Clark is married, lives in l^rentum, and vorka . for the Internal Revenue Bureau. Mr. and Mrs. Don Martin are in Hinesville, Ga., where D<RI is connected with the United Service Organization that serves Camp Stewart. 
It's junior for the H. Scott Skeedys. He was bom Nov. 4, 1941, in Pittsburgh. 
Since his return recently from Hawaii, Lea Vogel has been the center of attraction at our luncheons. 
The Mass and Communion commemorating the eleventh anniversary of Rockne's death was cele­brated at Saint Maiy of Mercy Church, Pittsburg M.trch 31, with the following in attendance: Jslu Rjan, Neal Galone, George Sciiill, Bill Sackr, Jckn Brtley, Pink}- Martin, Hugh Boyle, Bill Sixsmith, and John Pavlick. 
The club extends its sympathy to Dr. Robert MacDonald on the death of his father, and James McNuUy on the death of his father. 
A Pittsburgh columnist recently gave attention to the fact that Judge James L. O'Toole, Jr., of the Common Pleas Court Bench, is winning praise for charging the juries in plain, simple language, instead of abstruse legal verbiage. The same col­umnist noted that March is the party month for Judge John J. Kennedys, for five of their eight children were born during that month. 
Al Felts has been with the Allegheny Pipe and Supply Company for several months. Al is taldng evening courses in accounting at Duquesne Uni­versity. Rudy Cmkovic recently began to work for the Pittsburgh "Press." 
Best wishes to the James W. Dodsons who were married March 22. 
We had our regular Universal Notre Dame Night gathering, April 17, at the Pittsbtirgh Athletic Association. There were about 60 of us present. These officers were elected for the en­suing year: John F. McMahon, '28, president; John Pavlik, '34, vice president: John Brilcy, '23, treasurer; and William H. Ginder, Jr., secretary. 
It's impossible to mention all those in attend­ance, but among those present were: Bemie Can­roy, '30, who is still with the Pennsylvania State Employment Ser\-ice. Rege Knhn, '32, from Yoimg­wood. Pa. I understand he is assistant purcha^ng agent for the Robertshaw Co. 
Bill Cronin, '29, who sells that muscle building cereal for M. W. Kellogg Co. (Remember how he used to slay the South Bend girls in that black silk tank suit?) Thomas E. Dixon with Jones & Laughlin Steel Co. 
John Igoe, '28, a newcomer to town. He is with ' the newly formed Tubular Steel Products Co. of 
U. S. Steel. Eddie OBrien, '34, who has shiftefl from DuPont to U. S. Gypsum and is looking for a house in Greensburg. (Wanted—6 room bouse— near Church 11) John Koncy, '30, who is with the Dravo Corp.—now building boats. Charley Totten, who hasn't been around for some time. He is a sales representative of the C. E. Hussey Co. 
Among our regular visitors were: Bed Bfanton, Pinky Martin, Leo Vogel. Dr. O'Donnell, Dr. Didt O'Toole, Dr. Bob Macdonald. Jack Byan. Bill Steitz. Al Dicfaald. Turk Melnert, Geoise Sddll. Hugh Gallagher, Billy Hagarrall, Boh.Hartnaa. Bob Kvatsak and Body Cmkovic (Forgive me, fellows, if I missed you). 
VhMB BnkCk '33. has been notified that tm is to npoct for doty at Boston on Kay 15. in the capacity of Enngn, 1J.SJf.B. Unrt. Tani mbisB , '40, Valine Corpse is awaiting a baartstC by Ua board in Fhiladdphia for a nevr assignment. Pvt. Ed HaC is at Camp San Lois OIitq>o. 751 1I.P. Bn.. CaUI. 
The marriage of Miss Leona ^^ecfchals and Jaka A. Fueace, Jr„ ex. '39. took place Saturday. April 18. in the Lot; Chapel, Notie Dame. Jeka 
F. PaTBA, Jr.. '34, was the best man. 
Kay Tetten entered the Ccmgregation of the Holy Cross, F(d>. 1, when he began his year's novitiate as a seminarian. 
Nidc Kabaes has been transferred by the FBI. to Washington, D.C., while John Halhall has been transferred to a branch in Iowa. .. . Joe Sbee­ketiki, former Holy Cross football coach is the latest MJ>.'er. to join the Pittsburg FBI.... Ed' Boyle is still with the Pittsburgh office. 
Irwin (Bod) Geldaan is a private in Company A, Second Platoon, 54th Medical Division, Ckmp Barkley, Tex. HBTC. 
Lieut. Joseph C. Clark (A.V.-(s) tI.SJI.E.) writes from NTS (1) Naval Air Station, Qnonset. 
R. I., that he's run into only one NJ).'er there, Bab FBnt. '33, from Coodersport. Pa. Joe com­plains of sore feet and hack from lecture and drills.... Joe had been a private pilot for two years before he was sworn in the Naval Reserve on April 7. 
Met Jeny Ball. '31, lubrication engineer for Ohio Oil Co. at the American Mining Congress. Be lives in Findlay, O. and travels all over the country. 
William H. Ginder. Jr. 

WESTERN WASHINGTON 
Richard Meade. '33, J. Waller Thompson Co., Exduage BMc., Seattle. Pres.; Robert Plg­ott, '32. 23*1 Galer St, Seattle. Sec 

The club was able (thanks to Universal N. P. Night) to get a few of the boys together for a meeting. It proved highly successful, with many reaewins old aeooaintanceships and extending a 
' welcome to new graduates and transfers. 
Our meeting, preceded by refreshments and din­ner, was held in the Pompein Room of the Wash­ington Athletic Club. Turing in with the University program, we had for our guest speaker of the evening Commander HcNuIty of the United States Navy, commanding officer of Naval Recruiting in the 13th Naval District. 
Though missing his "captain of rebuttal," Mar­ty Starrett, oar toastmaster for the evening, Ned Cochrane, carried forth in fine style. He was ably assisted by fine speech-making on the part of Emaiett G. Lcnihan, Sr. 
A fitting feature was the reading of a letter from our president, Morry Schaefer, now located at Camp Roberts, Calif. We noted that Merry's signature was preceded by the title of "private" and know that it is merely a matter of time be­fore he will be lifted to the commis^oned ranks. 
Jiai Fbelan put in a somewhat belated appear­ance, arriving with Tex Oliver, former coach at the University of Oregon, and now awaiting appointment in the Naval Physical Fitness Pro­gram. 
Our Western Washington Alumni ranks have been swelled eonsderably during the past year with many N. D. boys joining the ranks of the Boeing Aircraft Company and other defense pro­jects in the Seattle area. Jerry Hacan and Charita Osbame are two now with Boeing. 
JI B CCaaaer. '32, is now located in Seattle^ working with the FBI. 
When the Washineton, D. C, Clnb observed Universal Notre Dame Nieht with a dinner in flw Carlton Hotel there were present, left to rieht. Bernard E. Loshbooeh. '29, club president; Edward M. 
Cnrran, local U. S. district attorney, an honoraty United States coneressman from Iowa. 
Memliers present were: Ned Cochrane, Emmett Lenihan, Sr., Emmett Lcnihan, Jr., Franlc Denny, Didc Heade, John Dormer, Bill Gaean, Sr., Bill Gann, Jr., Bill Tiemey, Ed Tobin, Jim O'Connor, Charka Osborne, Harry Abel, Jerry Hagan, Joe Horriean, Jim Phelan, Pat Goeeins and John Enslisfa. 
Newly elected ofTicers for the year to come were Dick Bleade, '33. preadent; Bill Tiemey, *0I, vice-president; Bob Pigott, *31, secretary-treasurer. 
I am due for the Navy within the next weelc so I shall refer you to our new secretary whose address is 2301 E. Galer, Seattle, Wash. 
John P. Enelish 

yOUNGSTOWN 
Charica B. Coifawa, Jr., '31, 186E Coronado 
Ave., Pres.; Clarence T. "Pete" Sheehan, 
'40, 2U Granada Ave., Sec 

Twenty-five members gathered to celebrate Uni­versal Notre Dame nieht. After a delicious din­ner in the Star Oyster House we continued our meetinff in the WFBU studios where State Rep­resentative John J. Backley save an e:ccellent speech on Notre Dame men in the last war. pre­cedinsT the national hroadcast. 
Btany of the members made their first appear­ance but we think they'll be back often now. Dr. FanI Gaaznieri, Joseph Heieel, and Attorney Al Van Hmifel. of Warren, were the only out-of­towners. Clyde Atdiiruson, Paul Flemine. Walter Vahey, and Harty Shea were others that we were ready to place in the lost column. 
Gcorse Kdley, Attorney Georee Frokop, Dick Biky, Inn YfM, Faal Kane, Joseph' Wallace, Al Bfattriaas, and Steve Bepasfcy were on hand as usual. Prendent Charlie Cnshwa, Jack Kane, Bill Dulery. Jerry Waif and John and Gabe Horan spent the evening hrasgine about their bowline team ^riiidi finished one-half eame ont of first place but Dee LeenelB—the one that carried them  member of Ae dab; and Vincent Harrinetan. *25, 
Ihroufih—had to pass np the meetine to bowl in the ABC tourney at Columbus. 
Bin Fair and PanI Gnamieri are the latest members to ioin the colors. Bill is at the Edse­wood Arsenal, Hd., and FanI at Fort Knox, Ky. Spike Siecel, the expert eunner from HeadviUe, Fa., was in town during his fnrloneh last "Mmth. Spike is enardine the naval base at Portsmouth, Va.—he says... . Francis HopldnB has left to join the Naval Intellieence division alone vrith BUI Hawes.... Al Evans, ex. '42, was home last month from Camp Pendleton. Hd. Bill Eaten, president of this year's student clnb who put over the best Christmas dance in our history, will leave for the Army in two weeks.... Bad Bcx^ nard. Doc Lconelli, and 1 are expectins to leave any time now. 
John Boddey, who represented our Faith at a relieious symposium here recently, is heeominir one of the city's leadine speakers.... Pad Fleat­ixie, represents northeastern Ohio in one of the Federal emereency leeal divisions. 
We are plannine a bie set-toeether for students and alumni at the Toungstown Hotel. Kay 18. Since no one wanted to hold oSioe they decided to defer elections for the duration—a sood excuse. 
PeU Shechaa 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
Joseph Pedraed, '39, 131 NoUe Ave.. Pica.; William BL White, '21, ai S. Tth St. Sec 

Ihe duh observed Universal Notre Dame Ni^t with a dinner at the Elks Club. Sprinefield. The clnb listened to the broadcast by Ber. Hafk O'DonneD. CS.C, president of the Unive^ty. Guest speaker for the evenins vpas CoL K. li. Cpsey,-stationed at the fairgrounda supply depot. Amone those present were Joaeph Fatiatd, pres-dent, Kiihy Shaffer, Bern Bra|]^ L. W. Bote . Jaacph IMiratli. Edward HandevUie. Lui y Argo^ Walter Bemaid. Jahn Trey. Wdud Walsh. Jeny Holland. WOliaaa White. C. G. Cerceiu. Etwaid Flynn. and Bernard Ready. 
M. J. CARNEy DIES 
Matthew J. Carney, LL.D., '28, a lay 

trustee of the University, and for many 
years one of the University's closest 

and most generous friends, died on April 
1, in his home in New Rochelle, N. Y., 
after a brief illness, at the age of 67 
years. He was a vice-president and direc­
tor of the Union Carbide and Carbon . Corporation. 
Mr. Carney, in 1927, established as a perpetual scholarship by a giift of $12,500 the-Sister Isabel Henry Scholarship. In 1928, he established the Margaret Carney Manorial Scholarship, commemorating his mother, by another gift of $12,500. The Matthew J. Carney Scholarship was established. in 1929 by his ^ft to the University of $25,000. All three scholar­ships are for the benefit of students from Paducah, Ky. 
Mr. Carney was bom near Leitchfield, Ky., in 1875. He received his early edu­cation in Paducah, and was graduated from S t Mary's College in 1894. 
He is survived by his wife, Lucile Rogers Carney; a brother, Charles Car­ney, of Louisville; and two sisters, Mrs. Stonewall J. Gardner, of New Albany, Ind., and Miss Frances Carney, of Louis­ville. 
Kev. Thomas A. Steiner, CS.C, United States Provincial of the Holy Cross Con­gregation, and Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice-president of the University, assisted at the funeral services held April 6, at the Holy Family Church, New-Rochelle, N. Y. 
MATTHEW J. CABNEY 

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Frances EatfarTn DeYries and Lieut. Merle Settks, Jr,, '35, of Fort Lewis, Wash. ' 
Miss Isabel VanHaflel and Joicph Drar> Jr., '39, of New Haven, Conn. 

Miss Louise Gervvels and Lieat. Matthew H. Blerkle, '39, Air Corps Ferrying Command, Balti­more. 
Miss Marie Scav-ullo and Gerald Saegert, '40, o£ Fort Knox. Ky. 
Marriages 
Miss Loretto Elizabeth Moore and Howard F. Beechinor, 1902-03, were married on April 6, in Detroit, Mich. 
The marriage of Miss Josephine Gorbctt and John Halpin, '27, took place on April 25, in Chicago. 
Miss Bemice Fitzgerald and James W. Dodson, '30, were married March 22, in Pine Creek, Pa. 
The marriage of Miss Elizabeth Joan Dooley and Dr. John William Jackson, '32, took place on April 6, in Mount Vernon, N. Y. 
Miss Esther Hepp and Hutin P. Xorborg, '32, were married May 12, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Cora Hutchinson and Robert Swan, ex. '34, were married April 14, at Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Terese Neilsen and Frank 

B. Gartland, '34, took place Dec. 27, in Brooklyn. 
The marriage of Miss Francis Dinsmore and Frank J. Hatphy, '36, took place on March 13, in Baltimore. 
. Miss Wanda Jennings and Louis F. Crystal. '30, were married April 19, in Peoria. 
The marriage of Miss Carlotta Schebler and William V. Jordan, '37, took place Feb. 14, in Davenport, la. 
Miss Ruth Ann Courtney and Capt. Panl Fred­erick Maelkr, ex. '37, were married on April B, in Indianapolis. 
li e marriage of Miss Ruth A. Sheehan, sister of John H. aieehan, '37, Notre Dame instructor in economics, and Edward J. Sweeney, '30, took place April 6, in Utica, N. Y. George Eichter, '31. was best man, and Hugh Glancy, '31, and Vin Fletcher, '32, were ushers. 
The marriage of Miss Jean Mary McLaughlin and CyrU F. Stroker, '37, took place April 25, in Salisbury, Md. 
The marriage of Miss Peggy Brant and John 

H. Donakne, ex. '38, took place April 18 in Seattle, Wash. 
Hiss Mary Geraldine WoeUel and Pf c Robert 

V. Malleii. '38, were married April 30, in Chicago. Tlie marriage of Miss Lois aunilton and Ed­ward W. SneD. '38. took place Feb. 23, in Beoria. The marriage of Miss Wilma Ball and John Jaztkelaer, '39, took place May 16, in Sharon, Pa. The marriage of Hiss Geraldine Wise and T. L. CIMUII. '39, took place on April 11. in Pittsburg. 
W** KiU Haney and Ffmnk K. Pfaff. '39, were married oci Jan. 31, in Elizabeth, N. J. 
The marriage of Miss Bosanne Gareean and Daniel M. Murphy, '39, of St. Louis, took plaee April S. 
Miss Eatherine LeVassenr and Ensign Bajaaai 
J. Kelly, Jr.. '41, were married Kay 15 at Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Virginia Babb and Lieat. William F. Spalding, '41, of Camp Beauregard, La., took place May 3. 
The marriage of Miss Marguerite V. O'Brien and Ensign Thomas V. Lloyd, '40, took plaee on April 18. in Wilmette, HI. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth Dunlap and Geoige W. Green, Jr., '41, were married July 15, 1941. 
The marriage of Miss Anita Lassetter and Ensign Joseph B. HcGcever, '41, took place Jan. 3, in Birmingham, Ala. 
Miss Grace Marie Myers and Easene T. GoeDer. '42, took place May 11, at Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Dorothy Jane Gresk and Raymond J. Donovan, Jr., '42, took place May 7. at Notre Dame. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard M- Hess, '25, announce the birth of a son, John Anthony, on Feb. 27, in San Antonio, Tex. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Stephao. '27, announce the birth of a daughter. Penny Susan, on Jan. IS, in Park Bidge, 111. 
A son, Timothy Nelson, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Louis Buckley, '28, on May 16, in Washing­ton, D. C. 
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Garber, '28, announce the birth of a son, on April 15, in New York City. 
A son, Roiwrt A., Jr., was bom to Congressman and Mrs. Robert A. Grant, '28, on April 27, in Washington, D. C. 
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Murphy. Jr., .'28, an­nounce the birth of a son, John Raymond, Jr., on April 23, in Columbus, O. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Eggcman, '30, announce the birth of daughter, Barbara Laura, on Mardi 28, in Fort Wayne, Ind. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Fred Parent.. '30, on April 6, in South Bend, 
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Swint, ex. '31, announce the birth of s son, March 26, in Nashville, Tenn. 
A son, Joseph Michael, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Honahan, '31, recently, in Areola, 111. 
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Fishkigfc. '31. announce the birth of a son, Charles J<An, on April 11. in Minneapolis. Biinn. 
A son, William Avery, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. William W. Corr, '32, on Jan. 21. in Holly­wood. Calif. 
Mr. and Mrs. Justin Donald Suffiran. '32, an­nounce the birth of a son, Thomas A., on April 24, in Newark, N. J. 
A son, Daniel William, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Wrniam D. Waltn '32 oo Dee. 7, 1941. in Massilon, O. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jaaefk R. Keny . '32. announce the birth of a aon, Joatsb K, Jr.. on FA. 22,. in Chicago. 
A daughter, Knth Aim. was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Skkard BoMy, '32. on Feb. 9. in New York City. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thsms OVaOey, '32. annonne* tha lurth of a son. Iliomas, Jr.. (m March 25, in South Bend. 
A son, George Christopher, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Kanice J. Dewald. '33. on May 12, in Fort Wayne, Ind. 
A daughter, Mary Elizabeth, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John Braen. '33, on April 11, in Oetrcit. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jsaeph GrMtkswaU. ex. '33. an­nounce the birth of a daughter, on Bfareh 26, in South Bend. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Babert 
J. Kaib, ex. '34, in March, in Akron, Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. Babert J. Kak, ex. '34, announce the birth of a daughter, recently, in Akron, O. 
A son, Robert David, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Edward J, Hofaaaa. '34, on April 7, in Leavun­wortb. Kana. 
A aon. Frank B.. Jr.. was bom to Mr. and Ittt. Fraak K. Maxwell, '35. on Jan. 25. in IJvonia. 
N. Y. 
Mr. and Mr*. TWaas L. Hidey, Jr.. ex. 'SS, announea th* birth of a dan^ter. on April 21, In South Bend. 
A son was bwn to Mr. and Mrs. Eago* O'Brien, '35. on April 30. in South Bend. 
A daughter. Mary Ellen, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Arthar V. Kema. '36. on August IS, 1941, in Saginaw; Mich. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward T. MeNally. '36, annonnee tlie birth of a daughter, Eileen, on Jan. 6,. in Pittsburg, kans. 
A son. Jame* Bidiard. was bom' to Mr. and Mrs. Jehu McKeana. '37. on Feb. 27. in West Orange. N. J. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jaaws J. Nalaa. '37. tba birth of a dnuditer. Margaret Diana.' April 5, in Freeport, N. Y. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Leais Hicfcey. '37. on Mardi 28. in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jaha Fambaagh, '37. announeo the birth of a daughter on April 1,. in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jatk BbaUcr, '38. announced the Urth of a daughter, Sharon Ann. on April 22. in South Bend. 
A aon. George IVanda, Jr . was bom to Mr. and lbs . CesKc F. FttxpatiidE. '38. on April 10. ~ in Boston. 
Mr. and Mrs. Laartace C Stewart. '38. u ^ ncnnee the birtii of a son. Iliaaias Daatel. OB April 4. in JoOA. BL 
Twin boys w«e bom to Mr. aad Mia. 

J. Lav; gradaaia stodnt IfST-SS, on March 25. in New Haven,'Coon. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph P. McBIahon, '38, announce the birth of a daughter, Patricia Shannon, cu April 23, in Washincton. D. C 
A son, Denis Paul, v.-as born to Mr. and Mrs. Charles G. Bforrow, *38, on April 28, in Louisville. 
A son, H. Scott, Jr., was bom lo Mr. and Mrs. 

H. Scott Sheedy, '39, on Nov. 4. 1941, in Pitts­burgh. 
Ueut. and Mrs. Joseph H. Mnlquccin. '40, an­nounce the birth of a son, Joseph Howard, Jr., on April 11, in San Diego, Calif. 
A daughter, Mary Ann, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Thesinff, *40, on May 1, in New Milford, Conn. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Vincent Smyth, *41, on April 1, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Vincent Gumcharri, ex. '41, announce the birth of a son, on April 7, on Island Negros, Occidental, Philippine Islands. 
Deaths 
Notre Dame was saddened by the death, on May 

3. of Kcv. William J. Burke, C.S.C.. A.B., *13, 
•widely known as a former member of the Notre Dame Mission Band. Father Burke died in Lee Memorial Hospital, Dowagiac, Mich., of which he had been chaplain ^nce retiring, in July, 1940, from the pastorate of Christ the King Church, on the Dixie Highway, just north of South Bend. Father Burke had been in ailing health for three years, and his death at the age of 52, resulted from a heart attack. 
Father Burke was bom in Chicago and entered the Holy Cross seminary at Notre Dame in 1905. Professed in 1915, he was ordained at Notre Dame in 1918 and assigned as assistant pastor of St. Joseph's Roman Catholic Church in South Bend, where be remained until 1924, when he joined the Mission Band. 
His contributions often appeared in the "Chicago Tribune's" "In the Wake of the News" column, under the pseudonym of Will. 
Surviving is a sister. Miss Lillian Burke, and other relatives in Chicago. 
The funeral was held in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, with burial in the community cem­etery. 
Leo A. Mndde, ex. *16, professor in extension service at Cornell University and an assistant 
' county agent leader, died suddenly on March 28 of a heart attack, suffered as he worked at his cottage, near Ithaca, N. Y. 
Mr. Muckle was bom in Rushville, N. Y., in 1892. After graduation from high school he spent two years at Notre Dame, before entering Comell Univeraty, from which he was graduated in 1916. He was a pioneer country agricultural agent, and in 1933 returned to Cornell to become an as­sistant to Earl A. Flansburgb, county agent leader. 
Freeman C. Fitzgerald, M.E., '16, Notre Dame football captsun and All-Western guard in 1915, died in Milwaukee, on May 6, after an inter­mittent illness of five years, at the age of 50. Continoally active in Notre Dame activities, he was a former preadent of the Notre Dame club of Hilwatikee. 
Freeman coached the Notre Dame freshman team following his graduation and played pro­fesaonal football for the Massillon, Youngstown. and Bock Island teams. While at Notre Dame he won three monograms each in football and basketball, plajnns: outstanding football alongside such not^Ie teammates as Father Hugh O'Don­ndl, pieddent: Knnte Rockne, Gus Dorais, Ray Kchenlaub, Charlie Bachman and Jimmy Pbelan. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
At the time of his death he was employed hy the Concrete Engineering Company, Hilwaiikec. 
He is survived by his wife, his mother, and a sister. Requiem High Mass was song at Saint Norbert's Church, Shorewood, "VS^s. 
According to a letter returned, Edwin L. Stem-berg, a student in 1918-20, of Milwaukee, WisL. died last December. 

Howard A. Fisher, ex. '23, of Detroit, brother of Charles T. Fisher, lay trustee, died March 31, at the age of 40, after an illness of several months. His death followed by less than a year that of his eldest brother, Fred J. fidwr, former University trustee, who died last July. 
Howard Fisher was at the time of his death, president and director of the New Center Building Corporation and the fisher Building. Corporation. He was also active in the affairs of the Fisher Investment Company. 
Mr. Fisher was bom" in 1902 in Norwalk, O., where his father operated a carriage factory. It was in this shop that he and his brothers learned the rudiments of the business which was to raise them to the heights of the automotive industry. Completing high school in Norwalk, Mr. Fisher attended Notre Dame in 1919-20. and 1920-21. 
Keenly interested in yachUng, Mr. Usher was a former president of the Recess Club, and a member of the Detroit Athletic Club and the Bloomfield Hills Country Club. 
Sur\-iving are his ivife, two children, and five brothers and three sisters. Rev. Frank Cavanatm^, C.S.C, represented Notre Dame at the funeral service, held in the Gesu Church, Detroit. 
Following a week's illness with an infection in­volving the blood stream. Joseph L. Adler, Ph.B.C., '24, of Joliet, HI., died on April 16 at the age of 39. Joe, at the time of his death, was president of the J. L. Adler roofing firm, vice-president of the J. L. Adler Grocery and Meat company, and a member of the board of directors of the Joliet Federal Savings and Loan Associa­tion. 
Joe was born in Joliet and educated in Joliet schools. After his graduation from Notre Dame he entered the roofing business and became a nationally recognized success in the field. Several of the largest ordnance plants in the 3UUddIe West were recently roofed by his firm. 
Among the most active in the Notre Dame group in Joliet, Joe also belonged to the Uni­versity Club, Rotary Club, the Joliet Contractors' Association, and the Holy Name Society. 
He is survived by his wife, the former Bachel Heintz. a graduate of St. Mary's College, three children. Joseph, Mary Beth, and John; his moth­er, two sisters, and a brother, George H. Adler, ex. '21. 
A five-month search for the Army plane in which Blajor Hogfa F. McCaffery, LL.B., '27, and seven other high Army ofHcials disappeared Dec­12, came to a close Blay 7, with the discovery of wreckage of the plane in the mountainous coontry near Bishop, Calif., the War Department an­nounced. Ail aboard were killed. H e big /ixmy transport, buried under snow, was uncovered by the spring thaw, and first sighted from the air. The plane took off from Phoenix, Ariz., Dec 12, for Hamilton Fidd. Calif. Also aboard tibe ill-fated ship were Major General Herbert A. Darsue, commanding general of the First Army Air Ebree; Col. Charles W. Bundy, of the War Departiaeiit general staff, and five others. 
Accordins to word recdved from the Sisttn of the Holy Humility of Hary, Siitcr Haiy Inae HcDade, H.A., '27, died May 3, at VilU Maria, TB. Sister Blary Irene was 70 years of age and in her 53rd year of religious life. 
Killed April 23 near Spokane, Wash., when the motors of his Army pursuit plane went dead causing it to crash and bum, Lieut. Milton E. Canndly, Jr., ex. '43, is the latest Notre Dame man to lose his life in service. laeut. Connelly, the son of {he assistant secretary of the Chicago Park District, was 22 years old. He had been stationed at Felts Field, Washington, for only a few days. 
Graduated from Culver Military Academy, Cul­ver, Ind., Lieut. Connelly entered the Air Corps a little more than a year ago, after attending both Notre Dame and Wisconsin University. On Blaster Monday he had been promoted to first lieutenant. 

His body was placed aboard a train at Spo­kane, Wash., by a guard of honor, which accom­panied the body to Chicago. Requiem High Mass was sung at St. Philip of Neri Church, Chicago. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Brother Kilian, C.S.C.. '29, upon the death of his mother; Tom Medland, '30, upon the death of his mother; Vincent E. Tariey, '32, upon the death of his wife; H. Gilbert Seaman, '31, upon the death of his father; Lieut. Joseph Prendergas^ '36, upon the death of his mother; Frank Tray-Ror, '37, upon the death of his brother; and Bill Kcnnan, ex. '42, upon the death of his brother. 
Personals 
E. Burke. '38, 301 Before 1890 Camp, New Orieans, La. 
COHHENCEHENT KEGISTRANT (1887) Franic P. Konzen. South Bend. 

mOA OO ^^' '* ^ MacNamara, '97, lOTV-T y Saint JOKph's Mineral Baths, Hoont Qemens, Mich. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS (1891) John L. Herman, South Bend: (1893) 

George L. O'Brien, South Bend: (1896) Rev. 
Joseph Maguire. C.S.C., Notre Dame; (1897) 
Rev. J. A. MacNamara, Mt. Clemens, Mich: 
(1898) Frank E. Hering, South Bend. 
For the first time in 46 years. Father John MacNamara. '97, and Arthur W. Stace, '96, met recently in Ann Arbor, Mich., at the Michigan-Notre Dame baseball game, Mr. Stace is editor of. the local paper. 
The University and the Alumni Office were not able to welcome back to the campus, on May 9 and 10, any meinber of the 50-year class—1892. Until 3 week or less before the Commencement dates, several hoped to return, and many ex­pressed their severe disappointment at having to cancel the trip after long years of planning for it. 
The following are the members to the 1892 class to whom special invitations to the Commencement were sent: Benjamin C Bacfaradi, 2600 South California Ave., Chicago: D. E. Cartier. 721 North Rowe St, Ludineton, Mich.: Frederick B. Ointe, 2205 Pleasant Ave., Minneapolis: Patrick H. Caady, 1017 Mohawk St. Los Angeles; Ernest F. DaBnd. 1220 Edwards Road, Cincinnati: Judge Jamea R. Fitixibbon. Newark Trust Building, Newark, O.; Dr. Ficdeiiek E. Neef, 133 West' 72nd St . New York City; Otto A. Rothcrt, 118 West Breckenridge St , Louisville; GeorEe H. Sweet, 1836 South (Turtis St , Alhambra, Calif. 
The Alumni Office has no current address for Kitin E, Danbar, also a member of the class of 1892. 
1900-04 Baiiaar. ElAait, Ind. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTBANTS 
(1902) Rev. Leo J. Heiser, C.S.C., Notre Dame; 
(1903) Alexis Coquillard, Sonth Bend; Bev. J. L. 
Carrico, C.S.C., Notre Dame: (1904) G. A. Fara­
bansh. South Bend; Byron V. Kanaley, Chicaso; 
Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C., Notre Dame. 
I^^^ P H Q Ber. Tkomas E. Barke, C.S.C., I TUDHI T '07, Notre Dame, Ind. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS (1905) William D. Jamieson, Chicago; (1906) 
Rev. John Ryan, C.S.C, Notre Dame; Rev. 
Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., Notre Dame; Rev. 
CJharles L. Doremus. C.S.C., Notre Dame; Rev. 
John C. McGinn, C.S.G., Notre Dame: (1907) 
James V. (Tunningham, Chicago; Rev. William F. 
Cunningham, C.S.C., Notre Dame; (1908) Maxi­
milian St. Cieorgeg, C9iicago; (1909) John B. 
Kanaley, C3iicago, 
Willi two stalwarts of ConuMneonent, FatiKT John A. MacNaraara and Fadwr Ckne Bailee, to lead oS np in front, tiiis table attracted sndi notables as Joe Stephenson, Austin HcNicIuIs. John Kanaley, Franic Leahy. G. A. Faiabangfa, Ray Miller, Danny Hilcartner and Pat Manion. The priest next to Father Burke is Father Peter McGanity, of Germantown, Pa., wl» accompanied Bishop Leech. 
Baverend BL I» MorUrty. Saint Mary's 
Chnrdi. Mentor. O. 
1910 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS 
Rev. Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C., Notre Dame; Qaude A. Sorg, Middletown, Ohio. 
 Fred Steeia, ISSS First National Bank 
ml 
I BIdg., Chicago, IlL 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Edward L. Figel, Chicago; Jasper H. Lawton, South Bend; Fred L. Steers, Chicago; John C. Tully, LaGrange, Dl. 
Lient-Col. Otto Probst has been appointed to the staff of Col. Walter Scott Fulton in Fort Ben­ning, Ga., as executive officer in charge of supply. 
R. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St., Pitts­1912 bnigh. Pa. COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS John Costello, Chicago: Joseph F. Donahue, 
South Bend; Rev. Bernard Lange. G.S.C., Notre Dame; Chester McGrath, S t Joseph, Mich.; John 
P. Murphy, (Heveland. 
m i ^ Paul R. Byrne, University Library, 1 7 I ^ Notre Dame, Ind. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANT 
C. Byron Hayes, Fort Wayne. 1^1 ^ Frank H. Hayes, 642 Third Ave., lYI^Chiila Vista. Calif. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Cecil Birder, Notre Dame; Daniel R. Shouvlin, Dayton, O. 
, _ . _ James E. Sanfoid, 5341 Magnolia Ave., I^IOchieaco, in. 
GOMHENCEMENT REGISTRANTS 
Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., Newark, N. J.;W. J. Mooney, Indianapolis. 
1916 
Grayer MiUer. Clt WiicMuia An. . Ratjne. Wis. 
COHMENCEBIENT REGISTRANTS Williain C. Henry. Ghlcaso; Walter P. MeCoart, 
Akron; Grover Miller, Racine, Wis.; Rev. HnaJi 
O'Donneli. C.S.C, Notre Dame; W. W. Tarner, Notre Dame. 
From Grover F. Miller: 
The uncertainty of' Commencement and roomins accommodations at the Univemty made ns aban­don any plans for this year's 26th retmion. At the last minute, I dashed down on the train. Class ' of *16 had, of coarse. Father Hack O'Dmnell pres­ent. Then there was Walter MeCoart, whose son graduated this year, and Tom Hay and myself. 
Die class of 1917 were havins; their 25th re* union, so we were invited right into the middle of their celebration. Their secretary, Bemie VoD, put on a grand entertainment at his home Friday night and again Saturday. For a farther account see the '17 column. 
The war over, I. hope that we can arrange for our 30th reunion in 1946. 
Louie Kiefer who runs a newspaper at Terre Haute. Ind., pro[>oses that we get together for a certain football game this fall. If you are inter­ested give me your ideas. 
You have probably heard our friend, FreeMui Fitzgerald, died in Milwaukee on May.S. Frank "Buckey** Weldk of Fall River, Mass., by now is probably a major in the infantry. Bill BnAary, of Robinson, HI., is running a draft board down there. Heinie Berger is still with the Wayne Pump & Tank Company at Fort Wayne, Ind. Sez he, "single, fat and lazy." 
Bill Henry is veteran's representative in Chi­cago. Freddie Pralatowski has changed his name to Frail. He lives at Moylan, Fa. Ed BecJoaan is doing a lot of advertising work and is located at Manhassat, N. Y. 
I wrote you all a letter on April 7 and will probably send you another in the near future. In the meantime, drop me a line about a football game, or send me some news about yourself so we can let the members of the class know just what is going on. 
 J. Vol], 20e E. Tatt St , SMth 
Bend, Ind. 
1917 B. 
CO&IHGNCEMENT REGISTRANTS Carleton D. Bch, Des Moines; Leo S. Bemer, 
South Bend: John E. Cassidy, Peoria,- Stanley B. 
Cofall, Cleveland; John M. Cooney. South B^nd; 
Charles G. Corcoran, Springfield. BL; Danid C. 
Curtis, Rockford, Dl.; O. J. Dorwin, New York 
City: Samuel Feiwell, South Bend: J. Paul Fogar­
ty, Chicago: Joseph F. Gargan, Washington. D.C.; 
R. J. Graham, Oak Park. Jll.: Vernon R. Hdmen, 
South Bend; Daniel E. Hilgartner, Chicago: 
Harry F. Kelly, Detroit: Dr. Robert Kennedy. 
St. Louis. 
William E. Kennedy, Chicago: Fred L. Mahaf­
fey, Indianapolis: Austin McNichals, Chicago; 
James T. McMahon, Toledo; Edward J. MeOaker. 
Oeveland: Jerome J. Miller, Fort Wayne; Md­
cfaoir S. Niemer, South Bend; WiUiam C. O'Brian. 
Jackson, Mich.: Dr. Leo D. O'Donneli, PittsbnriA: 
Howard R. Parker, San Francisco: Daaid J. 
Quinlan, Lowell, Mass.; John U. Riley. Portland. 
Maine; Leon T. Russell, Jackson, Mich. 
Harry E. Scott, Indianapolis; George W. Shaiia­
han, Lima, Ohio; Phillip M. Sweet. K«Tikaln». 
m.: Elmer C. Tobin, Elgin, III.; Vint D. Vansban, 
Lafayette, Ind.; Leo J. Vogel, Pittsborifc Pa.; 
Bernard J. Voll, South Bend: Lawrence J. Wdch, 
Indianapolis. 
From Danny Hilcartner: 
Nearly 40 members of the first War class returned for the best and largest 2!;th reunion of all. The above registered at the Alumni Office. 

The oSidal reunion meetings ware held FHday ' and Saturday evenings at the eoontry home; adja­
cent to the campus, of.Bende VaD. general chair­
man, a wonderful host, whose hospitality is a|>­
prcdated by all of ns. 
Pa d Facartr, H.C. of the party, presented Dake BUty and Hewaid Parker, the old glee chib team, in our favorite songs, and Duke, inspired by the occasion, sang "Some Little Bug Will Get Toa" and "Here Comes the Groom" as he never did before. 
AastiB HcNidwb told some of his famous Irish stories. !« • Vegek who was in charge of a con­struction job at Pearl Harbor on that fateful day. expbiined how he dodged the Jap lead to retinn for the reunion, and your scribe conducted the roll call of tlie class with a big majority of'the members accounted for. 
D"ko KIley was tiie only grandpappy we could uncover. The gang decided that Chacfc Corcoran and Bin Kcmiedy had changed the least during the past (luarter century. Rayal Boashard. senior class president, sent greetings and regrets from San Fkantisco; also Fathers Mike Early and Larry Cain. 
Mrs. Shea wrote to tell us that John C. Swa. 468 Grand Ave., Dayton, O., is recovering from a long illness and would like to hear from iiis friends; also Toa McManas, B-3S5, Edward Hines Hospital, Hines, III., who recently had a serious operation. 
Sincere messages of regret were also received from Di ^ Daley. Jim Hayea, Hngh O'Neill. Ed Mona. Ckariie Baikman. AI Kranz, Bill Hynes. Geeise Franx. Mitt TrBdeBe. Ed Sylrestre. Jehn Gnendling, Bernard Haberer and Art Neases. 
And a big V. N. D. for Father Hn ^ ODanneU. who joined us for our opening session and to Jim Arautrang and BiU Daaley for their gracious hos­pitality and help in organizing a grand reunion that we all will remember for a long time to come.' 
Paal Meifeld recently joined his brother, Fred Meifeld, ex. *10, in the real estate and insurance business in Frankfort, Ind. 
Joseph F. Gargan is now special assistant to the Under Secretary of War, with offices in Room 3039, Munitions Bldg., Washington, D. C. 
Ike staK phatacrapher caagkt several i of the silver anniversary daaa "at rest" faDewias the trat ei^rt ar tea eauaea mt the Alaauii Baa­«aet. Up teward the front are Jeny Miller, oir. Bab Kennedy. Dr. Lee Ollenndl. Graver lOBer. 
•IC Lee Vogel. John U. Riley. Howard Parker and Bemie ValL 
1918 
Jaha A. LeaisMr. MI Lake Shore Drive. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANT Joseph T. Riley, Muskegon, Mich. 

32 
1919 
Qarence Bader, 650 Pierce St., Gary, Ind. 
C0HMENCX3HENT REGISTRANTS Paul Fenlon, Notre Dame: Rev. James McDon­

ald. C.S.C., Notre Dame; Edward J. O'Connor. 
Pittsbursh. 
 B. Ward, 1012 Black Bid?., Los 1920 Leo 
Angeles, Calif. 
COHMENCE&IENT REGISTRANTS Grovcr J. Malonc. South Bend; Edward J. 

Mechan. South Bend; Dillon Patterson. South 
Bend: Harry Richwine, South Bend. 
From Leo Ward. 

The followins is a letter from John Balfe, of the John T. Balfe Company, (insurance) 60 East 42nd St., New York, N. Y. 
"Immediately following the Pearl Harbor epi­sode, my office became mure or less of a recruit­ing center, and it did not take me long to hnrken back to the 1917-18 days when you and I had many distracting moments. 
"I can still see Jerry Powers inveigling me into joining up with the Marines, and subsequently getting my enlistment call transferred to New York, in order that I might take Bill Conway's body home to Holyoke, Mass. Incidentally, you may have forgotten that I had to borrow some money from you in order to make the trip, and from all reports you are as affluent as ever. 
"As you may know, during the past four years I have set a^de from 10:00 to 10:30 every morn­ing in order to help the N. D. boys with their enq>loyment problems, and principally because of this, when the war broke they flocked to us for advice. With the 'aid of Bishop O'Hara, we have been able to do a - good job of directing these recent graduates, many of whom are now officers in all the branches of the service. 
"You will be surprised to know that amonji these fellows was one Charlie Call, an ensign in the last joust, and an erstwhile N. D. track star —^yes, it is the same Charlie Call who used to run that mile! Charlie has just been commissioned a lieutenant, (senior grade) even though they told him he was suffering from overbite (malaclusion to you). 
"Last week at Universal Notre Dame Night, Walter O'Keefe was the master of ceremonies, and just like good wine, Walter is improving with age. He was heckled by one Walter (Red) Doaglas, until he referred to Red's prowess as an '11 foot X>ole vaulter.' You would also be surprised to see Chaxlie BleCanley, who is managing one of the ritzy New York hotels. Although his girth-control isn't anything to brag about, he still has those 'banjo-eyes.* I introduced him to Frank (100 yard dash) Bfnlliran. and, showing that he remembered Mullie, he responded by calling him Eddie. Incidentally, Mulligan has taken on the proportions of a barrel. 
"Some other fellows you remember who were at our Universal Notre Dame ICight, are Ed 'Manny* HcLanghlin, BiU 'Red' Murphy, Jerry Crangfa. and the Deputy Administrator of the Federal Employment Service, one Joseph Tiemey. Joe came down from Rochester about a year ago, and is doing a marvelous job in a difficult em­ployment center. 
"I see Dr. Gene 'Pat' Rooney frequently, and occasionally John 'Oscar* Dorwin, who is now the associate general counsel of the Texas Company. 
"There were two other fellows at Universal Notre Dame Night you might remember, Eddie Gottvy and Al Cnsick." 
I heard from Dick Nash of Chicago. Due to the J^)S we had no racing in California this year mnd, as a consequence, the Nash Shandon Farms 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
did their racing in Florida. I also was presented with a card reading as follows: "Harold S. F«ley, president, Powell River Sales Company Ltd., Vancouver, B.C." The last I heard from Harold he had moved from the deep south over to Jack­sonville, Fla. 
I sincerely trust that the enclosed letter of Father James Connerton, will be of interest to our reading members; 
"My long delay in answering your letter, in which you inquired concerning the number of the class of 1920 who have been ordained priests, was not just a matter of setting your letter aside and forgetting it. Numeroiis tiroes I have come to the point of writing when I was stopped by the lack of complete information on each man. Even now, I cannot vouch for every detail but here goes my line-up as I have it: 
"Rev. Stanislaus Biclecki, deceased; Rer. James W- Connerton, registrar. University of Notre Dame; Rev. Thomas C. Duffy, superior of Mission Band, North Easton, Mass.; Rev. William Havey» vice-preadent and professor of philosophy at SL Edward's University, Austin, Tex.; Rev. Arthor Hope, writing centenary history of Notre Dame; Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski, president of St. Ed­ward's University, Austin, Tex. Rev. Michael Han­gan, missionary in India; Rev. Francis Nowa­kowski, assistant priest in South Bend; Rev. WH­
. liam Robinson, master of novices. 
"Rev. James J. Ryan, chaplain. Seton Infirmary, Austin, Tex.; Rev, Leo L. Ward, head of the department of English at Notre Dame; Rev. Frank P. Goodall. C.S.C., editor, "The Bengalese." Brookland Sta., Washington, D. C. 
"Rev. Leo R. Ward, department of philosophy. University of Notre Dame. 
"All of those mentioned are members of the Congregation of Holy Cross. In addition there are: 
"Rev. Thomas Tobin, vicar-general, chancellor, pastor in Portland, Ore., and Rev. Patridc Ma­gnire, SL Vincent de Paul Parish, Murray, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
"I know that you will observe that this is a big percentage in a class of a hundred graduates." 
 W. Duffy, 1600 Terminal Tower, 
Cleveland, O. 

1921 Dan 
COMKIENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Gerald J. Hoar, Notre Dame; Joseph F. San­

ford. Muskegon, Mich.; Raymond J. Schubmehl, 
Notre Dame. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 46 West Avenae, Hilton, 
N. Y. 
COM&fENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Hcartley "Hunk" Anderson. Detroit; Gerald 

Ashe. Hilton. N. Y.; Frank B, Bloemcr. Jr., 
Louisville; William A. A. CastcIIini, Philadelphia; 
Pierre T. Campion, Geveland; Daniel M, Cooj^­
lin. Waseca. Minn.; Jerome F. Dixon, Evanston, 
III.: Fred B. Dressel, South Bend; James Foren, 
Detroit; George P. Hencghan, Chicago; John T. 
Hipgins, Detroit; Charles J. Hirschbuhl, Port­
land, Ore.; Frank M, Hughes, Chicago. 
Aaron H. Hugucnard, South Bend; Gerald 
Jones, Dixon, III.: James Jones, Rochester, N. Y.; 
Dr. Thomas L. Keefe, Logansport, Ind.; George
Kerver, Cleveland; Harry Kilburger, Lancaster, 
Ohio; Clcte Lynch. Peoria. Dl.; Qarence E. "Pat" 
Manion, Notre Dame; Walter J. Matthes, Detroit; 
Thomas S. McCabe, Chicago; Harold £. McKee, 
Chicago. 
Thomas E. Owens, South Bend; Paul V. Paden, 
Soruth Bend; B. Vincent Pater. Hamilton. Ohio; 
Edward H. Pfeiffer, Louisville; Romine Reidiert, 
Minneapolis; James C. Shaw. Des Moines; Morgan 
F. Sheedy. Pittsburgh: Walter L, ShUts, Notre 
Dame; Walter J. Stuhldreher, Indianapolis;' Harold 
A. Weber, South Bend; Chester A. Wynne, Qiica­
go; Daniel H. Young, Fhiladdphia. 
The genial, efficient and ever-present secretary of the class, Mr. Kid Aaiie, was, of course, on the campus for the reunion, but he has since dropped from sight. We had hoped to present in this issue Mr. Ashe*s play-by-play account of the gathering of the clan on May 9, but the brethren will have to wait until the next issue for that pleasure. It should be worth waiting for. 
Sufficient it is for an uninitiated observer to say here and now that the classmates gathered in good numbers with and around local chairman Pat Manion, dean of the local legal labyrinths. A hirge time was had, according to an "Alumnus" report from an authoritati\'e source. 
Capt. Charles A, Crowley is with the Air Force Intelligence School, Harrisburg, Pa. 
Danny Conghlin, business manager of the Wa­seca, Minn., "Herald," recently succeeded his fath­er, John P. Conghlin, editor of the "Herald," as postmaster of Waseca. Danny has been active in American Legion and civic organizations of Waseca, and secretar>* of the county Democratic committee for a number of years. Both he and his father have been president of the Minnesota Editorial Association. 
Clarence Smith is county attorney of Beltrami County, Minn. 
1923 
Paul H. Castner, 137 South Ave., New Canaan, Conn. 
COSniENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Rev. Joseph Brannigan. C.S.C.. Notre Dame; 

Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. Notre Dame; A. 
G. Dcsch. Chicago; William J. Furey, South 
Bend; Bruce Holmberg, River Forest, Dl.; Edward 
D. Kelly. Emmettsburg, Iowa; Roger Kiley. Chi­
cago ; John Montague, Chicago; Richard Nash. 
Chicago: Rev. John Reddington, C.S.G., Notre 
Dame; William E. Shea. Dayton; William Voss, 
Harvey, III,; George J. Wack. Notre Dame. 
Elmer Collins, of Dayton, O., is a captain in the U. S. Army, and stationed in the Steele High School BIdg.. Dajrton, according to a card from William L. Struck, president of the Notre Dame Chib of Dayton. 
1924 
J. F. Hayes, 393 7th Ave., Room 1515, New York City. 
COBIMENCESIENT REGISTRANTS John S. Brennan. Notre Dame; Thomas E. 

Cooke. Chicago- Rev. Thomas Kelly. C.S.C, Notre 
Dame; James Meehan, South Bend. 
Lt. E. B. Miller is located in Essington, Fa„ and attached to the Navy Inspector of Machinery's office at the Westinghouse Electric and Manufac­turing Company's plant near Philadelphia. His present address is Way-Lin Manor Apartments, Garrett Road, Lansdowne, Pa. 
 P. Harley. 20SS Brookdale Road, 

1925 John 
Toledo, O. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS 

James E- Armstrong. Notre Dame; Charles L. 
Baumgartncr. South Bend; Thomas Carfagno, 
Hanover. Pa.: Gilbert J. Coty, Notre Dame; 
Clarence Harding. South Bend; A. J. Porta. 
South Bend: George Rohrbach, Notre Dame. 
1926 
James A. Ronan. 127 N. Dearborn SU. Chicaco, IlL 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS William R. Dooley, Notre Dame: Rev. Howard 
Kenna, C.S.C., Notre Dame; Halcolm F. Knans, 
Detroit; Gerald McGinley, Ogallala. Neb. 
For the first time since his graduation Bod Barr did not get liack to Commencement this year, bat he wired his regrets to the Alomni Office in a much>appreciated telegram. 
1927 
JoMph Bf. BoUnd. SUtion WSBT, Smtk Bend. Ind. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Louis Conroy. Flint, Mich.; Lt. W. J. Corbett, 

Glencoe, III.; Justin Corcoran. Cortland. N. Y.; 
Phillip E. Doell, Cleveland; W. A. Dotteirweieh. 
Jackson, Mich.; Frank Doyle, Madison, Wis.; 
William Finucane. Chicago; A. N. Galone, Pitts­
burgh ; John B. Geary. Chicago; George Gordon, 
Fort Wayne; John Halpin, Chicago; Harold T. 
Hatch, Jackson, Mich.; Robert Irmiger, Chicago. 
Herbert E. Jones. Notre Dame; Eugene G. 

Knoblock. South Bend; Alden Lenhard. Misha­
waka, Ind.; Jerry LeStrange, Scarsdale. N. Y.; 
Charles W. Martin. Pittsburgh; E. J. McLaughlin, 
Chicago; John McNellis, Chicago; Frank E. 
Moran, Notre Dame; Thomas E. O'Connor, Belle­
fontaine, Ohio; Frank J. Pendergast, Chicago; J. 
Kenneth Quallcy, South Bend; James T. Quhin, 
Rahway, N.' J.; Stephen Ronay, Notre Dame; 
Edwin Ryan, Chicago; Rev. Harry Ryan. Lacona, 
Iowa. 
Qyde H. Schamel, Jackson, Mich.; George J. 

Schill, Pittsburgh; James Sheerin, Kokomo, Ind.; 
Raymond Snyder, South Bend; Robert D. Stephan, 
Park Ridge, III.; Michael Swygert, Hammond. 
Ind.; John J. Wallace. Galumet City. HI.; James 
White. South Bend: Walter W. Wilcox,.Toledo; 
Ernest J. Wilhelm. Notre Dame. 
From Joe Boland: TTie 15th re-union has come and gone—abbre­viated to one day by war-time conditions and abbreviated in attendance by more of the same. 
Space doesn't permit covering in detail every­one who returned, much as we would like to do so. Nor can we tell you all or any of the stories that were re-told that day. But of the principal events, here's the outline: 
The class, through its assembled members, made up a spiritual bouquet of Masses to be said by classmate Father Harry Ryan, now pastor at St. Joseph's Church, Bauer, la., for the late Major Hugh F. McCaffery, whose accidental death was confirmed when the wreckage of the plane in which it occurred was found May 6 in the Sierra Nevada mountains of California. All other deceased members of the class are to be remem­bered in the Masses. 
Bill Corbctt, of Glencoe, 111., showed up as Lieutenant William Corbett, U.S.N.R.; only re­cently inducted, he awaits further orders. 
Louts Conroy, now manager of the Bell Tele­phone Company's Flint, Mich., branch, appeared but was called to his l^pton, Ind., family home by the serious illness of his father. 
John Halpin. only recently married, demon­strated that he is registerins his strength early by making his usual appearance on the campus for Commencement, and Eddie HcLaagUin, Chi­cago attorney, made it 15 in a row when he api>eared with his usual cohorts. Bob Irmiger, and "Jedge" John Wallace. 
Harold Hatch, on the other hand, broke a 15­year record when he appeared for his first Com­mencement since graduation accompanied by fel­low-Wolverines. W. A. Dotterweidt and Clyde H. Sdiamel, all three from Jackson, Mich. 
Tommy O'Connor won the palm as the healthiest looking of the outfit. Must be that outdoor air at Bellefontaine, O. 
Jimmy Qninn, erstwhile quarterback and first-baseman and vice-president in charge of Red Smith, held open-house in his Oliver Hotel rooms; then proceeded to Green Bay to hold a private reunion with his old baseball side-kick Red Smith, who was unable to make the reunion. 
Passing note: Bill Finucane is balder than your scrivener: and that's no laughing matter! 
George ScfaiU reported Gene O'Brien to be very ill with a disease similar to the one Lou Gehrig had. FVayers are indicated. 
While we can't talk about the others—much as we would like to—for reasons of space-limitation, we do want to say that Ermin Reidiert, the hotel keeper from Ix)ng Prairie, Minn., father of two girls and a boy, sent his regrets by personal 
Fomst F. "Fod" Cotton. '24, director of the USO Club operated by the National CathsUc Com«raity Sernce at Norfolk, Va.; is shown delivering the goods coffee—to a conple of the boys on "afcrf tety at Virginia Beach, Va. And it was coM along the ocean that day! Fod organiaed the coH»anity into a DoagfannU and Sinkers Brigade that made daily visits to the boys on tonely daty along the coast. 
letter, as did MilflM Hattdl. now probate judge of Berrien Coaaty, St. Joseph. Hidu Many others replied—via the postcards—that they'd like to have been with us, but no conid do! We're sorry, too. 
Searching throng the replies to the post-<»rds sent out before Commeneement. we found these men in the service from '27 z 
Williaa Corbett, lieutenant, 1T.S.N.R.. awaiting orders: Al Doyle, captain. Medical Corps^ U. S. Army, 3rd Corps Area, Baltimore, Hd.;DMi Fita­serald, U. S. Navy. Great Lakas, IlL; Gervaae FieeUid^ lieutenant, (j.?.) T7.S.NJK.; Say Bie-Clery, awaiting call to naval aviation; Jthn C. Petrene, Sfedieal Cbips, physician, TT. S. Aimy; HareU Tynan. IT. S. Navy; and Geerce Lee Wail­ner, n.S.NJt, Great Lakes, HL 
If there are titles, addresses, or other, items missing—its because further information was wanting. 
More later—got to get back to the kilocycles, and my spot annooncements. 
Via postcard from the two, we learned that ' Ed McKcnna, of Kingman, Kans.. and Nozk SkeUey, of Salina, Kans. met at s Rotary conven­tion in Kansas. 
Don Fitzserald, a yeoman, third class, is in training at the U. S. Naval Trunint: Station. Great Lakes, HI. Prt. Aastin Centilivre, of Fort Wayne; Ind. is now with Battery B, 5tfa Divinon, 95th Armored Field Artillery Bn., Camp Cooke. Calif. 
Working with Ctndble Steel Company of Amer­ica is John W. Slatteiy, whose home address is 2832 N. Parkside, Chicago. 
Sbnty Tennes was recently advanced from a captain to a major in the Air Corps and stationed in Phoenix. Ariz. 
1928 Louis F. Bae£ley, 4481 MacArthar Blvd., Washington. D. C 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS James A. Allan. Chicago; Andrew J. Boj^e. 

Notre Dame; Lt. George Coury, Chicago; Edwmrd 
P. McKeown. Chicago; John Polislcy, Bellaire. 
Ohio; Edward R. Quinn, Notre Dame: Ronald E. 
Rich. Notre Dame 
From Loa BncUcy: 

Before introducinsT the guest writer for this issue. I want to pass along these few items your newsboy picked up on his own this month. I spent an evening with Mike Ricks and Emmett Fergnson in Lafayette, Ind., recently. Mike was celebrating the arrival of his fourth child. He is practicing law in Lafayette. He mentioned that he visited Dr. Frank Hegarty and Dr. Dave Sol^ mon last summer. Frank, as you know is now at Fort Meade. Doc Solomon has a very fine practice in Ebensburs, Pa. Emmett Ferguson, who is a judge in Lafayette, is the Democratic candidate for Congress from that district. 
Bin Jones tells me that Elmer Wynne was In Washington recently. Elmer is with the Surplus Marketing Corporation in San Francisco. He is still a bachelor so jwssibly you can guess what his mission to D. C. was all about. 
Congressman Bob Grant is very happy these days as he announces he is the father of a baby boy. Bexnie Garber is another who experienced fatherhood for the first time this month. Yes. Bemie has a boy also. 
"Red" Lahey wrote from Dixon, lit , ask­ing me to pass alonff a report on the Rock mvar Valley Clnb Notre Dame Nifi^t. Red tbooght I was still in South Bend, making ny usual vista to the Alumni Office. I was glad to get word from him since I haven't seen him in yean. Ha has four children now. Red r^Mnts also that he is temporarily cmt of the dmg business and is Tvorking^ for the local utility company. He men­tioned that Vince Carney hasn't changed a bit despite the fact he is a father. Vince is reputed to be still much interested in mu^c and tennis. 
Tom Blalion dropped me a line from the re-c^vin? Station. South Boston Drydocks, South Boston, Mass., to the effect that I can get out from under the bed now as he has arrived on the east coast and has the situation -nrell in hand. 
Harold Canavan wrote to Bemie Garber from 166 Western Ave., Altambunt. N. Y., saying he is married and has three children. He is a senior parole officer with the Division of Parole. He has become a country squire, with a farm about 15 miles from Albany. 

Xorb Scidenstickerr who was scheduled to be our guest writer for the last issue, came through with a great deal of news which I am glad to pass along. Norb writes from ChilUcothe, O., where he has been with the Chillicothe Paper Company since 1928. He has t^vo j^rls and a boy. Norb mentioned that Uncle Sam got Jo-Jo Regney who failed to take Norb*s advice and get married 3-ears ago. He also reports that AI Tehan is in Springfield, O., and has three boys and one girl. Norb sees Boss Harrington once in awhile. Ross is kept busy practicing law; he has- two boys. Blartin Rini is now an associate law director for the City of Cleveland. Martin has one son. 
Norb*s request for news brought this news­worthy communique from our crackerjack Cincin­nati correspondent, Joe Kinneaiy: 
**Bart BIcHacli, the millionaire newsboy of the 1924-1928 era, returned to Qncinnati some months ago with the Wright Aeronautical Corporation, located at Locktand, O., just north of Cincinnati. Bart appeared at the Qiristmas party of the C5n­cinnati Club, and was his usual suave, titian self. Incidentally. I understand N. D. is prominently represented in the executive personnel at Wright Aeronautical. 

"Going a little farther afield for a report on a '28 man. I spent a roost enjoyable evening with Joe Hontedonico in Washington around the middle of December. Joe has a lovely family of two girls and one boy, and a iterfectly charming wife. Joe has made impre^ve progress with the Washington Gas Light Company, now being in charge of all maintenance pperations. 
"Skipping southwest, we come now to that suave gentleman from the South, with the big cigar in his mouth, none other than Troy Bonner of the Tupelo, Miss.. Bonners. Selective Service caught tip with IVoy before Congress decided men over 28 (not men of '28) didn't make such hot soldiers. So Troy was carrying on the honored Southern tradition of great cavalry generals with a little training at Fort Riley. Kans. Came the over 28 deferment and Troy returned to Tupelo to pick up the ends of a lucrative cotton broker­age bn^ness. Please address Bonner's local board for further draft details. 
"Here we are up at the crossroads of the na­tion. Columbus, O., the preserve of 'Honest John' Fontana. This Gallipolitian is presently nmking the Ohio Industrial Commission jump through the hoops 'with skillful cracks from his legal whip, niat is to say Honest John is doing ri^t well in bia law practice. I might mention that he has a lovely new borne, where the banquet board is always groaning. I Icnow; I invite myself out for a meal every trip to Columbus. 
"As for the author of this little tome, there IB little to say. Uncle Sam is breathing on my neck, Lc, I am 1-A and subject to induction at any time, ^nplidt in my selective classification ii tiw fact that I am still nnmarried. I have been praetidnff law at 807 Atlas Bank Building (N.D. 
lawyers please note) since returning from the Attorney General's ofifice in Jan.. 1939. For fur­ther details about me, address all inquiries to 'Honest John' Fontana." 
And from Frank Stnilutt. Delaware. O., by way of our Chillicothe goest writer ^ 
"Yes, I am still with the Department of IVxa^ tion and at pres&it am chief bond examiner in charge of gasoline tax. Have been travelinff quite a bit for the past three years—&om Nashville. Tenn., to Muskegon. Mich., and from lUsa, Olcla.. to New York City. This will probably be stopped very soon by Uncle Sam. If they won't give me a new car or some new tires they might as well put me in the Army. Am still unmarried and will be more than willing to help preserve the American way of life for the benefit of you and your prized assets. 
"I have seen quite a bit of our old friend. Art 'Swede* Stenins, during the last two years. Hie spent some Ume in Columbus working on his doctor's degree at Ohio State. He finally got it at the end of last summer but only with the aid of his winnings from me on the golf course. We played a lot on your old course, Syandot. where I have belonged for the past four years. 
"During my travels, I have seen Tex Wiltiams in Nashidlle, (Pontiac Motor Co.) ; Heniy DaTia in St. Marys, W. Va., (Quaker State Oil ft Re­fining Co.): Jade Sheedy in Pittsburgh; Jehn Leitzinger in Clearfield. Pa., Al Walzer in Qii­cago, and a few others.** 
George Kelley wrote as follows to Norb from Youngstown, O.; 
"Came to the Youngstown 'Vindicator* rii^t after graduation, became assistant city editor the fo]lo\ving January, dty editor and a benedict in 1936. Status unchanged since then, sad to rQwrt, but still hoping for a few tax exempticms, if the Lord is good to us." 
Botts Crowley answered Norb's letter from Tal­lahassee, Fla., where he was traveling the major league's training circuit in his capadty of pro­moting the professional department for P. Gold­smith Sons, Inc., of Cindnnati. Botts writes to Norb as follows: 
"I have not seen many of the boys. The ones I did see, seem to be prospering. Bed Smith is with Milwaukee hdping Charlie Grimm. He will manage Green Bay this summer. Red is getting so wide he casts a shadow over both the short­stop and second baseman when he takes his daily workout pitching batting practice. 
"Rex Enright is the head man at South Carolina Univer^ty. Ted Twomey is with him. Ted has quit flying and has a plane for sale. It was not the government restriction on dvilian pilots, as Ted will tell you. You see, Ted is married. 
"Jchn BIcHale, center in 1939, is playing first base for Beaumont, of the Texas League. "Bob Balfe is sports editor at Palm Beadi. 
"I have made application for a commission in the physical education department of the aviation branch of the Naval Reserve and should hear from it about May 1. No doubt, at least I hope there's no doubt, I'll be in the service tiiis sum­mer. It would not do for me to be a private <^ a gob. One of the boys who tried to get an extra pair of sweat sox from the old gymnadnm equip­ment ' room, or who was thumbed out of m hall game while I was umpiring, or one who ran afoul of football or basketball rules mi^ t be s top sergeant or a chief petly officer. So far. Fm still single, so I suppose it's a little late to make any domestic changes." 
Thank you, Norb, and the fdlows who cooper* ated with you for a swell column. 
Tour class secretary is in the happy spot this month of having so much news on hand that he has dedded to put some of it on ice for next month's issue. I prtHnise you a fine report from Dick Weppner. frcnn Cleveland, and Dr. Betnie Cmriey. from Ridimond Hdgbts. Mo., in June. I hope they will not object too much if I take advantage of thdr fine cooi>eration by saving thdr material until then. 
^ere is George Coniy and his annual Com­mencement report: 
"The uncertainties of war and tire rationing has had its effect upon tlie return of our dassmates for this year's reunion. Ihe number returning was the smallest I have yet seen and -it kinda left me with a very lonesome feeling, which is just one more reason why we will have to whip ^tler and fast if we want to have a big reunion next year on the occaaon of our fifteenth anniversary. 
"John P<dtsky exhibited the same big smile he did when he made those vidous tackles a decade and a half ago. John came from Bellaire, O.. and is still coaching at Odghton University. 
"Dr. Andy Boyle and Prof. Ei Quinn were on band as usual to extend one and all a hearty greeting, as was Prof. Ron Ridu 
**Bin Allen came down from Chicago with Ed. McKeown, Making legal dedsions on insurance adjustments seems to agree with Bill very much as he is about 50 pounds too heavy for the draft. Ed recently verified the old adage that it doesn*t pay to carry all your eggs in one basket. When Uncle Sam closed down bis prosperous automobile agency Ed just smiled and dedded to work twice as hard at his law practice. 
"71iai*s all the 28'ers in addition to myself that answered this year's roll call. Now for the news from elsewhere: 
"My former roommate, Oscar Rust, continues to bum up the Ohio territory by supplying it with the finest coal on the market. His oldest son, Robert, who is now 11 is already bdng trained by Oscar to pitch Notre Dame to baseball victory in 1949. 
"The last news received by his parents from Ed Bafftcr was that be was in the midst of a lot of water so it is presumed that Ed is somewhere ootdde of the United States with the armed services, 
**Bin Dwyer continues to handle the advertising end of a line company in Milwaukee and I nndorstand on good iauthority he is doing splendid work. 
"John Pat Harphy is now in the hardware busi­ness at little Rock. Ark. with a boy with whom Jc^m and I went to prep school. The years have handled John well with the exception of his hair; he doesn't have much of that left. 
"Ed Brennan continues to hdp the government ccdiect taxes and with the present rate proposed by Horgenthau he'll have plenty to do over the next few years. 
'Vah Graham is located in the same building where I am in Chicago and now heads the tax division of one of the nation's outstanding ac­counting firms. 
*'Viaic0 Dncey has or soon will reedve a com­miidon in the Naval Int^ligence Service. 
"As for myself* I^u. I am also now a Navy man. I was sworn in as a lieotenant, in the Naval Aviation brandi and nmst report to Quonset. R. I.. as c< the 17th of Jane, to nnless we beat the hdl oat of the 'be^ectacled eon of lieaven' and the loqaacioqti ^paper hanger' between now and next June yoa are soin? to have to find somd>ody 

else to write the '43 columti, but I'm hopins that 
this will not be necessary.'* 
Capt. Leo Sdialtheis, of Louisville, is now on duty in the Hawaiian Islands. 
Toa McNidiolas is secretary of the Nashville, "Tennescean" and active in southern new^aper executive circles. He has two children and re­cently moved to his new home on Golf Club Boad. Nashville. 
1929 
Joieph P. McNaman. Attorner Gen­eral's Office, Indianapolis, Ind. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Hev. Cornelius Booyboer, C.S.C., Notre Dame; 
Francis Jones, Soath Bend; Francis D. Meyer, 
Hanunond, Ind.; Donald J. FInnkett. Notre Dame; 
Lawrence F. Stauder, Notre Dame: Roliert Vosle­
wede, Chicaso; William Weber, Uokena, 111. 
Tom Qnalters, formerly personal body guard to President Roosevelt, went into the Army air corps on May 1, as a captain. 
1930 
Ridiard L. Donofline, 3729 Resemir Road, N. W., Wadiincton, D. C. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C.. Notre Dame; 
J. F. Driseoll, Chicago; J. E. Friel, Evansville, 
Ind.: Louis Hasley, Notre Dame: Henry D. Hin­
ton, Notre Dame; Walter M. Langford, Notre 
Dame: Fred Parent. South Bend; Jerome Parker, 
New York City; Gerald Reidy. Cleveland. 
From Dick Donoghae: 
"Your secretary feels like writing a lot about conditions in Washington, D.G., but that blue pencil of Mr. Dooley hovers over the thought, so all we will say is, that we are getting used to the hnstle and bustle of it all here. 
Example: I looked up one fine bright day re­cently when the pushing was at its height, and found that I was pushing Tim Moynihan. Things happen 'that way* in Washington, and I smiled at "Urn like Stan Laurel might do, and started off, and then it dawned on me that this is oar Tim of yore. And I met, on the street. Gil Pren­detvast, assistant solicitor of the city of Baltimore. Gil is also practicing law in Baltimore, and is doing fine. 
San "Bo" Richards and a few others braved a terrific snowstorm to attend the Rockne Com­munion Breakfast at Holy Cross College, Catholic University. We saw Loa Tliomtan, '29, and Leon­ard Collins, '3D, at the college: Len will be or­dained in June, and we were certainly pleased to see him after so many years. Lou is doing very well. 
Universal Notre Dame NisSit in Washington brought out a grand gathering. Our old Sopho­more hallmate, Patrick Conway, most recently of Cumberland. Md., told us that he is now in the 
U. S. Navy, stationed here in Washington. Pat lives in Arlington, Va. Charlie Powers, the engi­neer from Savannah, Ga., is now in the U. S. Engineers, and we expect to see him at intervals because he is stationed in Washington. Walter Greer. '29, was also among the former New York lads present; he is affiliated with a communica­tions branch of the military forces. 
Jolin F. Burke, '29, of Clinton, Mass., has gra­ciously sent ns a newspaper account of the mar­riage of Patrick J. Hastings and Uiss Alice Marie Ftceel. Congratulations and our best wishes to thee, Patrick, and to thou, Marie. Incidentally. like a couple of newspaper fellows on the radio, we too predicted things, did we notT Mr. and Mrs. Has­tings reside at the Clinton Hotel. 
We asked an approaching pedestrian, "Who Goes lliere," and it turned out to be Dan SolUvan of Baltimore. Dan is now district manager of the Ekctrolux Corporation in Baltimore, and is doing a grand job for them, as well as in raising his fine family. On a train in March I met Ji a Me-Devitt, '3S, a peer of the Notre Dame Chb of New York, en route to Fort Benninz, Ga., to report as a reserve officer. 
I had a short note from Beb SIsaa with a rs-quest to forward a letter to Gil Pendeinst. Bob is working vritfa Ed SUA of the Slick Glas* Com­pany. Gas City, Ind., as an accountant. It is pleas­ant to hear from you. Bob. and we would like to have a lengthy expression from yoii; as wdl as Ed, for the early issue of next fall. Bin Cladsr, Jr., secretary of the Western Penn. Club writes a hasty note to say that he may be in Washington soon. Bill is with the Carnegie Illinois Steel Corporation in Pittsburgh. 
Vince Tnrley. '31, writes to confirm the nawa in John Bergan's '31 column that his wife, Kay, passed away in March. Our class was saddened to learn of the news, of coarse, and we extend our-sincere sympathies to Vince. as we tell him of oar ioy in learning that his baby daughter fiooridies in good health. Your correspondent was thdr best man. 
Karl Brennan. until recently manager of the 
W. T. Grant Store in South Bend, took over the Rockford, 111., Grant store on April 28. 
Bob McDonald, formerly president of the N. D. club of northern California, is in the 402 Tech. Squad School Sp., Barracks 334, Sheppard Held, Wichita Falls, Tex. 
Henry Pratt, of Feoria, HI., has enlisted in the Naval Reserve with the rating of electrician's mate, third class, and is undergoing training at the U. S. Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, 
111. Before enlisting in the Navy he was a teach­er in a Peoria high school. He is a member of the Illinois Academy of Science. F>»iria Academy, of Science, National Education Society, Illinois Educational Society, Knights of Columbus, and Illinois Schoolmaster's Association. 
Since August, 1941, Paul Kleiser has been de­signing water and sewage treatment plants for Missouri, Kentucky, and Tennessee army camps. His address is 424 N. Second St, Clarksville. Tenn. 
John Dnbnisson. of Opelusus, La., is rounding out his fifth year as city judge and is seeking reelection in the September campaign. John is the father of three daughters and is active in air raid warden duties. 
1931 John Bergan. S38 E. Colfax Ave.. Saatk Bend. Ind. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS 

Lawrence H. Baldinger, Notre Dame; Donald 
Coleman, Granger. Ind.; Francis J. McGreal, Chi­
cago : John Mclntyre, South Bend; Thomas 'Mon­
ahan. Areola. HI.; Les Wisda, Jackson, Mich. From John Bergan: The O'Brien twins, Hatt and Hike of Tampa, have temporarily given up their law practice for a stretch in the United States navy. Both have been commissioned ensigns and are stationed at the Charleston Navy Yards. Jade Haghes also holds an ensignship and is at Jacksonville, Fla., Navy base. Others awuting orders in the navy are Jack Saunders, who received his commission as a lieutenant, and Roy BaiKe. who will be in the physical fitness program. Roy has rounded out eight years in the service of Firestone in the • Massachusetts district and has made a fine record. Fred Rahaim. coach of Landon Sg h of Jackscm­ville, Fla., the 1942 state baseball champions, has also selected the navy. 
Bob Marshall, the father of three fine children, is supervising engineer of the Florida state hi^i* way commisaon and is living in his newly con­structed home at 1421 S. Meridian St. lUlahassee Walter "Dutch" Ridley is consultinx entfneer for the John Donnelly construction company of Phila­deiphia and is IMnc at 2222 WaaUngton Lua. Be has been maniad for two years and ins daliu man of tiia mcr IULU—M Unhand Notara DU M aiiM hdd ia PUIIr. WH Ciiaij abo Btaa t* Philadeliilila aad baa flim yeangstan. Ha ia a mesdier <tf tha firm of lieArdla and Cotmtr, wholesale phnobinc sajwlier*. Lieut. Wait TMlpp is attached to the Phlladdphia Navy Taid. 
Jim Canal, tha Woodstock hotel raaaaatr la Gotham, ha* been appdntad a member at Us boroush'a draft board, is still sin ^ aad ekair­maned a fine UniTeraal Notni Dame Might eda­bratioo last month. Fraak MeTaB—k. barrister.: is chairman of tha board of ecaandaduicis tat Rya; N. Y. His old law partner. KUaid Baiter. is now a meaiber of a New Yoricfirm. Ed Caa­niaikam still holds forth as- supervisor of Camp La Goardia in upstate New York. 
TasB lliniksm was on the eampns for Uia Com. mencemoit and was proodly distribotins Cbronaa on the birth of Joseph Midiad. bom recently In' Areola. RL Btaads Hiaacbencer, the Princeton. Ind.. ice-man. has foar defermentib two boys and two ^rls. Certainly the boys that saw Skaak "Spike" lMr«daa«i recent picture in "Idfe" eonld not recognise that hsndsomx fellow as a daas­mate. Ait Kaas is sdvertidns »»M»mg»i- of the Soothwestem Gas and Electric Company of Shreveport, La. Kcr. E. Tiaceat HMney, C&Ci. our oU Freshman Hall rector, is now fidd eoa­snltant for the National Cathdie Community Service and travds all over the country—as usual. 
The Jeka Fraada Saffivana have recently moved into thdr new home at 88 Heade St, Passaic. NJ. He is one of the prominent attorneys of northern Jersey and keeps in shape tat future navd dutie* by widdins a strong tennis racquet HeHe 3kTsn,. one of the Lowell. Mass.. prominent badidon. Is awdting a naval assignment and in the meantlma is keeping his own shoe department of Bon Karcna tops in northeastern Hassadiusetts. Jim Kaiiayv also a Lowdllte. is travding oat of there 'for a diemied firm. 
Beb DeNecfe of Mobile; Ala., is traSIe manager for the Hbllingsworth Whitney Gompaiiy and has two fine children. Ellen and Bob. Jr. Mrs. DeNeefs was one of the designers of - the defense hooaes project of Mobile. Viace Tailey is generd mansser of the defense homes project for the Hartfora. Coim.. 
Chadie "Red Top" WCHS is wnking for tne 
G. ft S. Distributing Company of Nadivtile n beer department manager and is plsnning an early trip back to the campus with Mrs. Wdls and Charlie; Jr , who will be a member of the class of 19B0..Fied Caimsdy is with United Oaa Company and is livins in Vivian. La. 
Frank Ndl is a candidate for dty clak of In­diarmpolis in the November dections. Dr.' Sam ' Vetiaaa ia practicing medidne in New Bittam. Conn., and Iws two children. Andy Kata lias moved from New Britain and is praetidng law in Waterbury. Mm Babiasea's address is now State Bouse. Hartford, where.he is executive sec­retary to the governor of Connecticut Dave Ito-din is with the claims department of the Aetna Insurance company, is married and is living at 5345 E. Washington St. Indianapolis. Ucal^ Lanr MaBta^ new address is 509 E. Davenport St. Iowa City. Ia. Jehaay. SalBvaa will soon give up tiie . book business for an army career. 
Jim Doyle, oar reunion chairman and erstwhile Chicago broker, hdps us oat with Vt» foUowtng. 
"It would be interesting to have a list of all the boys in service born our class. I imagine flicn must be dose to 30 of them by now. Our own fsmilr is wen repreaented with three boys in ssr­viee: Ttam and FVan are in tha Air Corps aad Bm has been sent to Csinp KeOcgr. Wis. for a few monflis wliila one of the artnieT outfits tram. FVnt CostCT impioTCS its long rsnge aeeoiaer. 
The Notre Dome Alumnus 
"Freddy Swint* ex. '31, is the proud father of an 'S^ponnd baby boy bom March 26 at Nasb­ville; Tenn., where he is no\r located. CUrk Ben­fcmdorf stopped in the office a few days a^^ to say bello. Buahnell is certainly agreeins with him and his family. 
"Tom Monahan was in town for the broom com dealers convention. Jim Bidi, Ghicacro bar­rister, is now in- Wasbinerton with the OPA. Imagine his sniprise when at 10 o'clock Blass, his first Sunday there, the man sitting in the next pew ahead turned around and who should it be but John Manley from Dyersville, la. Jim was really surprised and happy to find an old pal of his so quickly. Vem and Hazel Knox are in Washington for a visit with Jimmie Ridu Ralph Dalton was in Chicago recently looking up the various rcQuirements for commissions in the Army and Navy as his number is up shortly. He is looking fine with some extra weight put on l ^ drinking that famous Dr. Pepper drink he manu­factures. It looks as though Iiis wife will run the business for the duration while Pappy is away. 
"Eddie Byan just returned from Phoenix ana, before he cooid get settled in town had to go out on business for a few weeks. He looks good and is doinff a grand job at International Bailweld. Rumor has it that Robert L. Pendergast will shortly be leaving the thinning ranks of the Chi­cago bachelors. 
"The sad news to report is the sudden death of Gil Seaman's father, April 6. Several members of the class were present at the wake to express their sjrmpathy. Father Gaiisensmith, a long-time friend of Hr. Seaman, attended the funeral." 
From Didc Donoefane, '30 secretary, to John Beivan« *31 secretary: 
"I understand that it is seldom that 'Macy's tells Gimbles' but as one class secretary to another. we must stick together. I have recdved some news which I am sure you will be pleased to receive about ibembera of your class. 
"I had a few nice letters from my good friend, Pvt. Charles D. Long, '31, United States Army. Company A-1213th R.C., Fort Niagara. N. Y. It is likely tiiat he will move soon, but he can be reached through this address just the same. 
"We come to a news item in your last column, John, narrating the marriage of Arthur IfdOsn­moiif *31, and since I recdved an extensive account of this event through Jack Saunders, '31. I thought yon would be interested in having it lor your column. 
"Of course, we begin with the news that Arthur Thmmmm BtcManreon was married to Miss Maura Dempsey Sullivan at Tweeksbury, Mass. in St. Williams Church. We even received a newsfpajwr account and pictures about this very populat­couple. 
"Jack sends us a copy of the "front page" ot the hypothetical new«x>ax>er *The Lowell Fun.' This sheet quotes Plato to say 'Needles and Pins, needles and pins; — When a man marries his troubles begin!" and it continues with countless pithy news items. 
"For instance, the Dracut Bachelor's I^eague announced a closing on Saturday, Feb. 14, In respect to the memory of the 'late Arthur T. MeKsnmon,' and our subject of conversation is quoted as having said that 'Marriage is a vacation —^Umph I mean Vocation.' while the headline on the page screams lIcHanmon Says "Goodbye!"/ It goes on to explain that his intimate friends are astounded at the news. A cartoon shows 'King Arthur.* the AIl-American Sport, and an adver­tisement annoonoes the close-out of 'Gentleman's Frirste GsIOnff lis t and Notes—^For Sale*—and the mastchead includes the fact.that this kind of publieaticm is ^rablished' but onoe in a lifetime. 
It also gives a 'weather forecast* to the effect that 'dark and dreary evenings, domestic flurries and tempests, few bris^t clouds' are in the ottiam for Arthur. While it likens the news to a bomb exploding in whipped cream and' marriimalknr, it confirms the news that Arthur is now 'Gone With The Wind'." 
Charies Schmicd is with the Wisconsin Porcelain Company, Sun Prairie, Wis. 
1932 
Jamea K. Collins, 614 Bnad BITA, Dajr­ton, O. 
COHHENCEHENT BEGISTBAMTS Nate Altman, South Bend; John Bognar. Sontb 
Bend; Al Brassenr, Mishavaka, Ind.: Jaiaa K. 
Collins, Dayton; Stan Czapalsid, Chicaso; Jowpb 
J. Dunn, Buffalo; Frank Ernst. FVemont, Neb.; 
Bichaid E. Fahiycki, South Bend; Hennr Gajkow­
ski. Chicago: Joseph Gonecian, Cbleaso: Ted 
Halpin, Indianapolis; Nohle Harbansfa. SonUs 
Bend: Ernie Hecliinser, Oak Park, HI.; NeO 
Hurley, Jr., Chicago. 
. John W. Janch, Niles, Mich.; G. H I Klein, 
Akron, Ohio; Edwin Kolski, Chicago; John P. 
Laufhna. Detroit; Robert E. Lee, Chicago; John 
C. Litcher, Uilwaukee, Wis.; Bev. Walter Xe-
Inemey, C.S.C., Notre Dame; Thomas HcKentt, 
Washington. D. G.; John Merlo. Chicago; FVanlc 
L. Murray, Battle Creek, Mich.; Dominiek J. Na>­
politano, Notre Dame; Leo Newman. South Bend; 
Francis J. O'Eane, New York City; Thomas 
O'Malley, Sontb Bend. 
Charles Fetretic, South Bend; Kelly Powers, 
Chicago; Ollie Powers, Chicago; Qiaries Qoiglegr, 
Richmond, Ind.: Robert Bobrbaeh, Chicago; Cor­
nelius Ruffing, Norwalk. Ohio; Ben Salvaly. Cbl­
cago; Leo Schiavone, Cbicago; John J. Staunton, 
Maywood, HI.; James Trotter, Jackson, Hidi.: 
Charles Weiss. Jr., South Bend; Be». J. H. Wil­
son. C.S.C., Notre Dame; Ralph D. Witt, Sontb 
Bend. 
From Mike Crawford: Sure hope that no one is waiting for a report on the .'32 ten-year reunion—your correspondent was unable to attend as were likewise some 400­plus others. Word has infiltrated of six members who were able to attend: Nappy, Petriti, Fnudc O'Haller, Abrabam. But, crowd or no crowd, my thanks to the local committee for taking over the duties ordinarily assigned to a class secretary, and whatever happened to that election of a permanent secretary? Or am I writing this under a false title? Honestly, I wasn't at the reunion and you rnay have a new scribe, if you haven't why don't you volunteer? 
A letter from Jade Jordan, giving a little in­formation and asking for some more. Jack writes that Frank O'Kane has left the practice of law in New York to join the tank corps at Fort Knox, Ky. On a last summer's trip through the Sooth, Jack and family spent some time with Ed K—ntr, bis wife and daughter. Ed is in the printing and Hthogr^h business in Asheville, N. G. 
He also writes that Faol Howe is married, is with the Army enigneers, and living in Phila­delphia. Ed Rliatican, somewhat stouter, is the same old Ed. Since December, Jack has been in Washington with the trial section of the Depart­ment of Justice, and so he sees Clay Jnhnsan and Tom McKevitt frCQuently. Bob Lee is with Stand­ard Oil in Chicago and is the father of twins. 
Jordan would like to hear from or about Lci Fagan, John (Mar-Main) Kramer, Chariie Waada. Joe Kennedy, Johnny Lichnter, and Bill Hail. Write to Jack at 5130 Cormecticut Ave., Chevy Chase, D. C. 
Also a letter from the old roommate Ha Mo-. Carthy. with Local Loan in Brooklyn, N. T. who throws the foIk>wing light on some classmates: 
"Dropped into Gene Coimelly's new cafe on East 23rd Street., last Tuesday nigbt and Gen* was there.... bia new place is a sweetheart—din lights, delicious food, and what drinks. Bamlndi me of Mishawaka! 
"Hyiea Mallen is. an attorney and has ofiices in the same building on Court St., where I'm located. See him nearly every week. 
"Dm Byan. of Corby Sub, lives in the same apartment building with us, and my son Tim has a crush on Don's daughter, Lani. 
"I run into Heih Giorgio occasionally when he gets down to Boro Hall on a trial. Jim Ward used to stop in foi lunch regularly when he was with Western Union, but I hear he has just landed a new job, so I'll have to get someone else to buy rae lunch." 
South Bend or no South Bend, and it was no Sooth Bend, I had a nice reunion, thou^ short, with Jae Dunn of New York, who combined busi­ness with pleasure as he moved west^vard to readi Notre Dame cm the proper day. Joe looks fine and is doing well with the Niagara Valley Hilk Commission. He can tell you. Jack Jordan^ where to reach BUI Hall and others. 
Pete Streb wrote to say that he would be unable to attend due to last-minute-planned de­fense maneuvers in Canton. O., where he is a second lieutenant in the National Guard. 
The sympathy of the class is extended to Jack CsOiaa on the recent death of his mother. Jack is now with the Provost Marshal's department of the Army and is stationed in Columbus, O. 
Seen recently was John Connolly of Toledo, and 1 won't mention his much more familiar nickname, because his most recently acquired and vetT lovely wife has not been so informed. John said that the wedding was at Notre Dame about the sunset of Jannary, he is a state senator from Lucas County, and that bis motto remained "the greatest good for the greatest number of people." 
Alright boys, this 3A stuff is not going to last forever, so let ns know where yon are now, what yon are doing, and the place to which you are sent when "that day" comes. Maybe we'll reunite in Tokyo—first one there can be class secretary! 
Fraa Jim CoDins, new '32 secretary; appointed by acclamation at the May 9 festivities on the eampns: 
Shove over, Mike, and back to your babies: I'll take it from here. I am very happy to take on the job of class secretary but after a few months I might feel like Tojo who did not know just what he was taldng on either. You did a swell job, Mike, and we appreciate it. 
The 10-year'reunion was really something, fel­lows, and those of yon who missed it yon have our 

"deep sympathy. We need not comment for those who were there as everything possible was done to make it very complete. We took over Bob CaUlTs ticket office for the duration and left the rest up to Nappy Napolitano who did a fine job on the inddentals. 
It was good to see so many from our class who have not been back since graduation—Joe Dana and John Lilcbcr, for instance. Joe is with the New York Milk Marketing Board in Snyder, 
N. Y., while luteh is still in the insurance busi­ness and is now located in Milwaukee. Frank Eraat is still auditing, and Tam O'Malley is selling for I>yon Metal Products, covering northern Indiana Dr. Charley NmA is in Valparaiso and expects to be In the Navy soon. Bob Lee is with Standard Oil Coapany in Chicago and full of axplanatioos about bnta. Stan CaapalsH is man­
•Cing the drug store of the Edgetwater Beach Hotel in Oiieaco^ and write* that be saw BDke 

-Ctmwtti in Cleveland during March. Hank Tkelen aa i AI Btaaaew are both loeatad in Mishawaka. duile y >>iUlij is still in the drug budness in Richmond, Ind., and Ted Halpin is sellins paint for dnPont in Indianapolis. 
Fattier Hade Wilson vras on hand durinsr re­union, bat Father Vince Brennan, who is now a secular priest attached to the diocese of Pittshorgh as assistant pastor of Corpus Christi Parish, writes that he said mass on reunion day for all the members of the class. Hissed seeing Father Paol Hallinan this year but Father John J. Baifce. C.S.C.» was there—^be is prefect of discipline now. Father Chaiks HcCarrasher. C.S.C., is teaching sociology and prefecting in Alumni Hall. Brother Emil (Mohr). C.S.C., is teaching in Taunton, Mass., and Father Dan Leahy is pastor of Holy Rosary Church in Bingham Canyon, Utah. 
Bin Conaton writes that he is still with the Cherry Bnrrell Corp. as New York salesman. Tom Bams is teaching in a high school in Rochester, and Clay Johnson' is back in Washington with the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, on loan from the N. Y. Stock Exchange. That's the first I knew they made loans. 
Heard that Panl Host is almost recovered from the effects of the tragic, accident which proved fatal to his father. That is the best news of the month. 
Tony Conti is a state trooper with the New Jersey State Police located at Paterson. and Bill Corr is with Lockheed in Hollywood. Heard that Joe Shecketiid has left Holy Cross and has taken a commission in the Navy as a physical education instructor. 

A number of the class members are in the armed forces and among them are Baden Powell, Bin Casa. Ray Gagcr, Bin Brown, Johnny Boss, John Bannon, Bern! Renler,-Tim Benits and Al Sdiamader. John Harrington, and John Voss are with the FBI and Ed O'Sallivan has an im­portant post with the Navy Department. Panl Howe is with the War department, and Cliff Frodehl is vrith Dry Dock Associates in Philadel­phia. Ed O'Connor is with the Internal Revenue Service in Brooklyn. How do yon like the Boms. Ed? 
Koon Hallin is with General Analine and Chem­ical Film Company and expects to locate in Ohio after June 1. Joe Blaroiiick writes from Great Falls, Mont., where have I heard of that town before?—^that he is in the wholesale grocery busi­ness there. Harry HOOT is production manager or the Triplex Uachine Tool Company in New York. Didc Fahrydd was in Dayton recently and tele­phoned that he is moving to this area soon from South Bend. He is selling for the Anderson Frlch­ard Oil Corp. 
Dr. John Keaaey writes that he has just re­c^ved a commissdon in the Army Medical Corps, and Rabbi M. N. Stiskin. who has been the rabbi of the Congregation of the United House of Israel in North Adams, Hass., has applied for a diaplaincy in the Army. 
To top it off. Gene Connelly writes that he was the saddest man in the class on reunion day be­cause business did not permit his attending. You probably had plenty of company. Gene. 
niere are a lot of missing names in the above, and many of you fellows have not been heard from nnce graduation. How about a line? 
Heile V. Baldwin, SJ., ex. '32, vrill celebrate his first solemn Uass at the Church of St. John, Erie, Pa., on June 28. On June 21 he will be ordained priest of the Society of Jesus at Wood­stock College, Hd. 
Leonaid Dum, state's attorney of Franklin County. nL, was inducted into the Army in April, according to a dipping sent in by Ross O'Shea. 
Ross, in addition to his regnlar life, insnranca business, ia secretary-traasorer of the ICsdsaipoi and Ohio River Pilots Aaaodatian. (Mxo. VL Charka Spaascnhcir, of Saint Joseph. JBA, teaches hiab school and raises fruit on the side. 
Jahn Bannim is a private, as of St. Pat's Day, and is now in the Serrice Battoy. 60th Armorad 
F.A. Bn., Both Division. Camp Cooke, Calif. Frank SindBnger. Jr.. ex. '.'32, of South Bend.. left during April for induction into the Army. 
Carlo* Frank is a professional engineer working on river and harbor improvements. He is marriad and living at 130 Nortbledge Driven Snyder, N. Y. He sent along word that Bin Caw had received a commission in the Navy, and was enjoying a short furlough until the ordnance department of the Navy sent him to NJ>. for his first training. 
Jerry Conway sent a card from Melboame, Australia, to say he was sorry to miss U.NJ). Night, but that he hoped to be in Toldb by then. 
Angelo Lnckett, .now at Columbia Military Academy, Columbia, Tenn., is married and has ­two children. After June 1, he "will be with the Procter and Gamble Defense Corporation in Milan, Tenn. 
Joe Sitek, a private in Uncle Sam's army. Is now stationed in Headquarters Fli^t. 26th Tedi­nical School Squadron, Jefferson Barradcs, Mo. He writes that he enlisted in Detroit, March 3, and is now a mail clerk for Flight A. 
Joe McKeon is district sales manager for Lee Dry Goods company of 9u%veport, La. Joe reeent­ly built a new home in the snburfaa and moat of his time is spent entertaining Mary Susan, age 2. His brother John, '35, is with Boeing Aircraft in Los Angeles. 
Bernard Donoghne, 'ex. '32. is now a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Bureau of Aeronautics, Washington, 

D. C. 
1933 
Tighe Woods. 7S44 EUis Ave., CUcace. 01. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Rev. John Bednar, C.S.C., Notre Dame: Danid 

Cashman. South Bend; Norman E. Duke, Indian­
apolis: Charles F. Hafron, South Bend: 'Vermont 
Harter, South Bend; C. J. Hess, Lansing. MI^ : 
Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., Notre Dame: Ed­
ward Killeen, Qeveland: Michael Koken, South 
Bend: Kdward Troy, East Chicago, Ind. 
From Tighe Woods: My sincerest apologies to the class for being a very terrible secretary since the first of the year. My only excuse is the fact that I sold my own real estate business the first of January to fii^t the battie (now lost) against rent control for the Chicago Real Estate Board. I promise to do better from now on. 
Jerry Finneran was in Chicago early this year, 'nme and Times Square have been kind to Jerry. He's the same dapper "Big Finn" that held weekly court in the South Bend Inn these many years ago. He is doing some promotional work for' a newspaper syndicate. During the evening he told me lots of news about the New York gang and I dutifully took down notes on the back of a menu and then promptly forgot to take it with 
me. 
Received a letter from George Lenhartx. I won't tell bow long ago, in wbidi he reporteil that his brother Frank is' in Tulsa, Okla., with the Waukesha Motor Company. Frank has two boys. George himself has two daughters and ia in the road contracting business for himself at Crystal Lake, 111. He dropped a bint that Fete Connelly, FhidcB Oibom, Jim Enright. Ed K*»­ncdy. Bin Bodo and Tma BladnrdI mi^ t he induced to contribute to the column if property approached. 
I suppose it is the fats of every seerataxy to suffer in sileneo the eritidsas of his eoostitasBta. I rwHved soch a word of mild eritiei^ in a note tram Turn Mr! s«ghB» in 'wfaidi hs says that h* was "soaaewhst diagrined" to neeive the Kaidi iasne of the "AlnmnnsT* only to find notb­ins under oar column. He mnt havo pneticsUy torn his hur oat to see the sane baanUfoI anar of white mpaee in the April iasoe. Knowing Ttam. rn merdy ask him to read my prosalsa as made above and off» my eongratnlations on hia ap­jMintment as prindiMl marketing spedaBst for tha War Department.- He 'will be loeatad at the Jersey City Qoartermaster'a Depot and 'wffl com­mute between there and Washington. 
The above mentioned "palenesa^' surrounJng the Class Banner in the April iasoe of the "Ahmmu^' broQ^t a two-page letter from Ray ^iil*—^ in Green Bay, Wis. Ray is ddng promotional work there for. Standard Oil of Indiana. Hs reports that Oounsdor C. Thsaus Dowas of Bhindandw,. 'Wis., is now making his plesa bsfon the bars 

- of a crib hoomng his new baby dan^ter. Anothsr good dtizen of the home of the "Packers," Nsra Chrishaan, has been ill. I hope Norm is able to read this bsek at his desk with the Olson Trans­portation Company. 
To answer your question, Ray. tiie last address I have f<Nr Leo Bancs, is 4343 Cahoengo Blvd. North Hollywood. Calif. As for wiiat he Is dinng now, this looks like a good opportunity for him to write in and teH ns alL Thanks for the swdl letter and let's have another, at least before the summer is over. 
Ueat. Bob FBnt, ettomey-at law in Coodersport. Pa., has been called into active duty in the United States Naval Reserve and is stationed at the Naval Air Station, Qnonset Point, RJ. 
Bamt t writes the following from Okla­booa City, Okla.: "I left Georgetown. Britidi Guiana, for the states on April 13 -via dipper and after a few days at home, accepted employment with the U. S. Engineer Department 'with a na­tional defense project here, as assistant en^eer. 
"Shwtly brfore leanng British Guiana I had the pleasure of meeting Dr. C^earge Meagher, '36, who is now a first lieutenant in the medical corps, recoitly asagned to the fiigineer Hospital at the air base there. 
"While in Alexandria. La., enrodte here, I saw Charics Crsdntt, '32, and FhU Jacaha. '35, both of whom are awaiting word from the Navy I ^ partment of their applications for training under the 'V-7 program. Charles is still in the banking bo^ess and Phil ia now with an insurance com­pany. Also in Texas I spent the time between trains with Albert David, ex. '35. who is employed on the construction of an ordnance plant. 
"My own Army status is indefinite; but "will probably be deferred a few months until com­pletion of this project. I would be glad if anyone stationed at 'Will Rogers or Cimmaron Fidds here would get in touch with me." 
Lieot. W. K. RaUasB, now stationed at the office of the Naval Inspector of Ordnance. 'Willys Overlsnd Motors. Toledo, received a special train­ing coarse in Washington, before bdng assigned to duty in TMedo. 
The promotion of RaOin Banch. of Milwaukee, from "rr^^i" to major in the Medical Corps; U. S. Army, was announced by headquarters of the Medical Field Service School, Cariide Barracks, Pa. Major Bundi recently returned to Carlisle Barradn after cocnpleting a two-months coarse at the Conmand and General Staff 'School, Fort Leavenworth, Kans. B s has also aarred at Ite t Brandy. Midi.: Ibrt McCldland. Ala.: Fort Ban­ning, Ga.; and Camp Beanregaid. La. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Enffene Bemlurd. yeoman, third class, is under­going' recruit training at the tJ. S. Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, III. 
Dr. Jclw Cary has just been given his captaincy. He has been in service since March, 1941, and is now commander. Troop B, 1st Medical Squadron, at Fort Bliss, Tex. 
Joe Hoffman, of Co. A, 14th Signal Service Regiment, Fort Monmouth. N. J., -w-rites: "While in recruit training I met Jim Fagan, '34, who is probably in some school or working in some per­sonnel office. 
"Antie Bossa is also here and I believe is now in the Officer Candidate School. Previously he was working in the athletic office. 
"I am going to school, studying for the military intelligence division, and will be at this for some time. If successful. I shall be transferred to Washington, D.C." 
1934 
Robert M. Cahill, Athletic Association, Notre Dame, Jnd. 
COMHENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Eli Abraham. Notre Dame; Robert M. Cahill, 
Notre Dame; William W. HuiskJng. Huntington, 
N. y. ; Robert K. KcIIey, I>aPorte, Ind. 
From Bob Cahill: 
The 1934 class reunion for 1942 was held in the cafeteria telephone booth. Those attending were Messrs. Ed Kranse, Eli Abraham, and your secre­tary. Despite crowded conditions of the meeting-place, the meeting came to order and the housing situation was solved by placing Classmate Abra­ham in Classmate Krause's coat pocket. Election of officers was attempted, but since each membar kept voting for himself for any office mentioned, a deadlock ensued, strangely enough. Ihe meeting finally adjourned after making several 'phone calls with salted pennies, to the cafeteria proper, at which place Classmate Abraham was permitted to emerge from the Krause" pocket. He was promptly returned thereto, however, upon a thwarted attempt to snatch the sugar container from the table. Sometime over the week-end Class­mate Krause sent his suit to the cleaners, and nothing has since been heard from Brother Abraham. 
With the business meeting out of the way, this secretary retired to his ofiTice where was held the 1932 ten-year reunion, which should be mentioned in the proper column. No. *34 boys showed up here, and if they did elsewhere, I am sure Hawk­shaw Dooley has listed them at the head of this column. No doubt j-ou are all waiting for that ten-year blowout of 1944. AVe'U credit you with that reason, any\vay, so you can all go back to sitting on your hands until '44. 
On April 9, Walter Kennedy blew in, full of stories about the size of his new son. Although he was a bit incoherent, my notes on the visit say the boy wdghed 144 pounds at birth, but I guess that must be ounces, don't you ? He stopped magic-lantern lecture on the baby long enough to interpose that Rev. Ed Seward had become an Army chaplain. Cheers for you, Ed. 
Freddie SnOivan, the old manager from Nor­wood, O.. called me one evening from a local res­taurant on his way through town. This former member of the Howard H^ll Chowder and March­ing Club has a family and still lives in Nornood, frotn idience be commutes to Cincinnati and his d^Iy whack at the advertising business. Fred has two diillun. 
Hy spies tell me that Bill Huisking was on the campus for Commencement but I didn't see him. Since there certainly must be more important things to fill the "Alumnus** with this time, I'll fall out now. If you have any news for the next issue, remember, boys, it won't be published just by thinking of it. Send it in. 
Charles Homif, ex. '34, has enlisted in the U. S. Naval Resen'e and is now in traininff as a yeo­man, third class, at Great Lakes. HI. 
Nick Lakats has been recruited by the Navy as a physical education instructor. And Back Hal­perin. ex. '34, is with Gene I^inney's physical training corps at Norfolk, Va. 
Matthew Lentsch. Jr., of South Bend, left dur­ing March for induction into the Army. 
Bill Green, now living at 822 N. Tancahna St., Corpus Christi, Tex., is working to organize a Notre Dame club in Corpus Christi to include both civilians and air cadets. 
Father Ed Hurray, C.S.C., writes from the Med­ical Replacement Training Area, Gamp Barkeley, Tex., to say: "About two weeks ago our good friend Father Joe Barry, '29, made his departure. 
They were headed for Camp Devens, Mass., but a dollar to a doughnut he and his men are now feeding the fishes. 
"We have our share of boys from under the Golden Dome, but it is difficult to keep In con­stant contact with them in my outfit. We have a personnel of 8,000 trainees here in the replacement center where the boys undergo an eleven weeks basic training before being sent to permanent units throughout the country. Since we have a monthly turnover here of over a thousand men, I just get acquainted with our lads and th ^ are gone. 
"It was good though to see several N. D. men last month. Paal Anderson, '38. has been on hand every Sunday to set up the altar and serve my third Mass in the 55th Battalion. Paul was work­ing on his doctorate on the campus when he was called shortly after February, I understand he has received the degree and being in service he stands a good chance of going on to the Officers Training School. His exam results were away up thcre­
"Another Notre Dame man dropped in to see me a few weeks ago—^Homer Fergoson, *41, from Winslow, .A.riz. Up until last week Homer was working on the 'Camp Barkeley News,' and I understand now that he has been transferred to the newly formed MRTC Publicity Department. 
"Two barracks-buddies in the 53rd Battalion here are Irwin Goldman. '36. and Johnny IbJber, *34, one of my:own classmates. Both of these men are due to be sent to more permanent units any day now. 
"One of the commissioned officers here who often speaks of the good old days is Lieut. (Doc) Connells, ex. '33, who studied for two years on the campus. These are just a few of the men I have met thus far, but this is a pretty large outfit, over 35,000 men spread over an area almost. as big as an ordinary town." 
1935 Franklyn C. Hocfareiter, 341 R—tJalc Are., St. Lonis, Mo. 
COHHENCEMENT REGISTRANTS George T. Demetrio, Chicago: F. A, Dineen, 
Pittsburgh; P. J. Fitzpatrick. Chicago; Michael 
Gaul, Chicago; John Kavanagh, Chicago; lliatnaa 
XALonde. Chicago; Arthur O'Neil. Chicago; Mi­
chael Sheedy. Buffislo; William H. ToxniKT* Nevr 
York C^ty; £. Spencer Walton, Mishawalo. Ind. Walter Powers is now at Fort Monmouth, N. J.. in the Signal Corps of the Army. John PwOdnff in a yeoman, third class at the Naval Training Station. Great Lakes, 111. 
Lt. Merle Settles, of Anderson. Ind.. visited his parents in South Bend before leaving April 25 for his post in Fort Lewis. Wash. 
Dr. Francis Dineen, *35, who graduated in 19S9 from medical school, has served his internship and is now serving a residency at St. Frauds Hospital, Pittsburgh. 
Alhert L> Vitter vAio, following his graduation, taught at Notre Dame for several years, has been honored by an appointment as instructor in dec­tronics for army and navy ofl^cers at Harvard University. Al is going places. Last year he was summoned as an expert in the petroleum field to give evidence in an important federal case in Washington. D. C. Since - leaving the University he has been on the staff of the Department of Conservation, Baton Rouge, La. 
 Honm, «1 E. 95th St , Apt. 1936 JAn 
New Toik Cily. 
COHUKNCEHENT SEGISTRANTS 
Sebastian Bonet. Kalamazoo, Hich.: George B. 
HcNeile, Soatb Bend; Kev. R. J. Simonitscfa, 
CS.C, Notre Dame; Joseph Sullivan, Sooth 
Bend: George M. Wolf, Port Ointon, Ohio. 
From John Moran: Add' a few names to the rapidly swelling: list of '36ers in the services. Ed Dunn sent word that . he has re<;elved his commission as an ensign In the USNB and is stationed at the Great Lakes Naval Station, Great Lakes, III. Down at the U. 
S. Engineers hospital, Georgetown, British Guiana is Lt. George Heagher. Hedical Corps, A.F.O. 807. 
At the recent Universal Notre Dame Night banqnet in New York we met Andy Hafnagel in Army uniform. Andy, who was drafted recently, is stationed at an Army post in the New York area. 
Joe Snllivan dropped by for lunch in March. Joe was on a few days leave from his job as a dispatcher at the South Bend airport. By this time he is probably on duty with the Navy. Joe reported that he sees Botdi Hansman, the flyins lieutenant, occasionally. 
B«d GoUmmn has been transferred and is now rolling pills at the Detacliment Medical Depart­ment, Station Hospit^al, Camp Bowie, Tex. 
Pvt. Joe Ratigan appeared on a WOR-Mutual radio broadcast from Ft. Dxx early in January. Lt. JI B MacDevitt. '35, was married at Ft. Ben­ning, Ga. on April 18. 
Tom Campbell is working as an accountant in the Detroit Ordnance District for the War De­partment. Tom is residing at the Hotel Wolverine, Detroit. 
Leo Hafnagel xi-rote in to say that he is a practicing architect in Clarion, F&„ but that he will probably be in service soon. 
George Wolf was in New York for a brief visit recently, but unfortunately we were unable to get together for a bit of a bull-session. 
A duo of wedding announcements came from Frank Haiphy and Cr Sttoker, '37. Murph was married in AH Saint's Church, Baltimore to Hiss FVanoes Dinsmore on March 13. The newlyweds will live at 4908 Alson Drive, Baltimore. 
Cy was married to Hiss Jean Hary McLaughlin on April 2S in St. Francis de Sales Church, Salis­bary, Hd. Good luck to both of you. 
Joe Dannina is now with the Department of Immigration and Naturalization, in the Port of New York. 
Ei HaiuKr will say his first Hass on Saturday, Hay 30. On behalf of the class, we want to wish Father Ed the best of everything and a long and fmitfnl ministry. Send your congratnlatians to ' him at St. Joseph's Seminary, Dunwoodie, Yon­kers, N. Y. 
Expecting sea duty shortly so I may have to dig np another class secretary. Is there s '36er Tanning anmnd loose who isn't in the Army or Navy or who hasn't been spoken for? 

Help ns out -with soar letters and cards. In these days when things are so rushed they help make this writing stint a great deal eader. 
Dan Kaksmski'has enlisted in the United States Naval Beserve as a storekeeper, third class, and is nndergtwis training at the Kaval training sta­tion. Great Lakes, HI. 
William Badtley, the father of three-year old Janet Elizabeth Buckley, has the following new address: Tiimer Ave., Oakville, Conn. 
Wayne Hillner was recently announced as Notre Dame's new end coach replacing John Dmze, who entered the Navy. Wayne has been for the past six seasons a star wingman with the Wash­ington Redskins of the National Professional league. 
Larry O'TooIe, John Ford, '37, and Tom Murphy were at Camp Lee, Va. in early April. 
Donald Draper is doing civil service clerical work for the War Department His address is Medical Depot, Foods Terminal, Kansas City, Kans. 
Paul Gaamicri is a private in the 6th Surgical Hospital, Co. A, 2nd Plat, Fort Knox, Ky. 
 Foley, 910 Hawthorne Road, 1937 Paul 
Gnsse Pointe, Mich. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS James K. Bacon. LaPorte, Ind.; Dr. Wilh'am J. 

Bailey, Detroit; Roy Barron, Detroit; G. E. 
Besanceney, Columbus, Ohio; Milton Bock. South 
Bend: John E. Brassell, South Bend; aifford F. 
Brown. Norwalk, Ohio; Robert C. Burke, Cincin­
nati ; Jerome Qaeys, South Bend; Thomas Condon, 
Buffalo. N. Y. Lawrence Danbom. South Bend; T. E. Dillon, 
Girard, Ohio; H. J. Druecker, Kokomo, Ind.; 
Steve Finan, Crawfordsville. Ind.; Paul Foley, 
Grosse Pointe. Mich.; Frank J. Fox, Columbus, 
O.; Frank Gcddes, Chicago: Basil Gillespie, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame. Donald Hennessy, South Bend; Dr. Arthur Hoff­
man. Fort Wayne; Frank Huisking, Huntington, 
N. Y.; Peter J. Johnen, Chicago; Charles B. 
Jordan, Chicago: Ned Joyce, Tucapau, S. C.: 
Harry F. Koehler, South Bend: George A. Kristel, 
Schenectady, N. Y-; John Levicki, Cleveland; 
Robert Lochner, C.S.C, Notre Dame; William J. 
Lynch, Chicago; Charles Meyers, Elgin, HI.; 
Charles F. Miles, Chicago; Harold Miller, Indian­
apolis. 
Arthjtr J. Mulholland. Kalamazoo, Mich.; How­

ard Murdock, South Bend; Walter Nienaber, Cin­
cinnati : Joseph M. Nyikos, South Bend: Harry 
Poulin, South Bend; Joseph P. Quinn. Jr., New­
ton, N. J.: Bernard J. Reilly. New York City; 
Henry Ruen, Detroit: Nicholas J. Salerno, Grand 
Rapids, Ohio: J. Paul Sheedy, Buffalo; T. William 
Tunney, Coming, N. Y. 
The No tre. Dame Alumnus 
John C. Ulbnann, Detroit; Paul Vendeiley, Fait 

Wayne; James A. Waldron. TKuton, N. J.; B<ik> 
ert C. Weaver. Coshocton. Ohio: Joaeph Wehfe 
Weedsport N. Y.; Thomas J. White, St Lonia. 
Adman Fofey was present and more or less accoimted for, hut his vivid (we're sure) story on the *37 gatherins and feasting is obviously lost on the Detroit-Notre Dame pony ejipiesa nm, Mr. Guentert and his Ave Maris Ptess are wait­ing; we can delay no longer. Hie issue must go on, and you, his loyal friends, must live m hope that Foley's mailbag will have arrived hr next month. 
The Alumni Office must stick in a word here, nevertheless, to tell you that Jeriy Claeya and his local '37 committee did a masterful job of ar­ranging the day of May 9 to the best advantage. Headquarters for the class were in the Bagineer­ing Building. Assisting Jerry on the committee were Lany Danbom, Lou Hiekry, Dm Bcncay, John Brassell, Karl King, Hany Poalin. Hariy Koehler and Jeny Davey. 
Gilbert Gallivan is now a sergeant in Head­quarters Battery, 52nd Keld Artillery, AP.O. 1104, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. 
Ed Hoyt, wrote from Fort Shafter. Hawaii,­to say that he was soon to be sent to Officer Candidate School for the Signal Corps at Fort Monmouth, Bed Bank, N. J. Ed adds: "Haven't run into a soul over here, although I understand that Marty Bums is here at Pearl Harbor, llie weekly 'Scholastic' reaches me and is fine." 
John McAnliffe is an ensign in the Naval Engi­neer Corps, 3714 N. Prospect Ave., Blilwaxikee. 
Rev. William Knnscfa, ex. '37, will be ordained May 30 at Dubuque. He will celebrate his fiiat Mass, on May 31, in Our Lady of Mt Carmel Church, Chicago. 
Philip Welsh, a lieutenant in the Army, is located at the Columbus General Depot Colombus O. 
Lieut. Robert LeMire, of the B.A.R. Committee, Infantry School, Fort Benning, Ga., writes: "t was graduated from the Officer CancUdate School at Ft. Benning on May 1, with a commissiion of 2nd lieutenant and was immediately assigned to the Infantry School as an instructor." 
I nO Q Harold A. WOHanui 3f8 East Laki 
I yO O Ave, Baltimore, Hd. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANT John Flouff, Notre Dame. 

A baadi ef tke beys, especially the '37 bays, at Oe Ahmni Ban«aet ea Sataiday aiak^ May •. Secretary Foley and Local Chairsun Claeys gaided the live-year men in a very decsiaas repast, ss ya« 
The kttw of th* naith U tram Jack Zntat; it vaa written en Nor. 2, 1941, firm Ibftac India, and airhad in BaMiiiiaa naacahit am­aond—on Kay C. Writes Jade: "Showkalla t» yoa bam InAa arbere it's as hot as Ha glaca where snowballs have no dianee. It^s time to send grectinss of the season to my dwindUns sroiv of Mends in America. The eohmm ia tha 'Ahoa­nna^ has haen xesd with absochinc intetest *T***y Uie past many months and it has provided abwist the only Hnk with the fellows of our dass, Iha New Tear brings the retom trip, a half cbde of the ^obe, back to the good old TT.aA. Thiea to four months with nothing to do bat relax oSlns some rather interestine plessoie. This of eomse depends opon the actions of oar little Japanese friends. If they cause a postpomemast of my trip home so hdp me Pll hate 'em for all time. 
"There are now two lay N. D. alomnl in bdia. Jade Hasilltaa, '32. is in—censored—with the ^*'"'<"«>«" Aircraft Corporaticm. in diarge of the fabrication diviri<Hi. directly sahoidinate to one HcCaiOy who runs the show. Jack has been to Madras several times and Pve also met him tar two parties in—censored—^whidi is within the boundaries of my branch. Re's married and has two fine yoongsters. Jack worked in another anl^ sidiary factory of his parent eoegpanr oa - the Burma-Chinese border, before .beinff transferred to &i£a to help India's—censored—^reraft fac­tory. Periiaps Jaek^s class woold be interested in this information. 
'Tve seen more of this blasted country tBan I have of oars. Pve resided in the three m^n ports of Bombay. Cslcatta. and Madras, and Ondoatani now rolls off my tongue with ease. It has been a wonderfol experience. Bsl. bat Pra ready for the homeward trail. One. loses touch with former friends snd aeqoaintances which means msMng new contacts again. Major changes have occurred in America, a soda] and industrial revolution, since the spring of 1939. Don't be surprised if yen receive a call about next September. The drinks are on me."' 
Jack's address at the time the letter was written was National Ckrbon Co., Ltd., Haldne Mansions. Loahb Square. Ifsdras. India ­
And this breeiy letter is from that breezy diap Jack Oilia who steps oat from bdiind the curtain of darimess to inform the brethren of his actions. Come in, Jsck: "Pipe the new job. Etom the skin-balmed hand of a recently baptized 'Joiseytte* comes a note as if fiom the hereafter. If yoa thoo^t I was among the deceased yoa had good leason to, for in the matter of keeping in touch witii yon, I am foond sadly wanting. Pm with the 
A. S. Boyle Coopany, distributurs. just to the north of yoa, I am in the sales department in charge of promoting oar vitamin pioduets, a brand new line that I came in on scHse six mimths ago. Radio was left in the luidi at WSFD in Toledo and the Solon boy moved to snodt greener pastons in the fidd of real bnsinesa. The vneertaintles of thnatfol palaver were too great —there was no assurance that this still smple &ame eoold eontinaally feed on two dollar steaks and eopiaas quantities of atrawbeny riiorteskc. Sofaoaly, HsI, the move was made wisdr I tidnk —for it ijn s me tin opportanity of expMtins mr theories on "Bow to Son a Business Into tha Ground in Six MonOis Or^ Leas! I mitfit ssy (modestly, of coarse) that -ritaidna are doins very well indeed—they lodE well to give eacrsr to yoa stalwart Army gays mardiiag seven boon a day. diillinK three moc« poHahing' potatoaa in Sie KF. and apples in GAQ. 
"Noir fornaws-yoa doabtlcas know I a rie«-ardUyaBl-Ta(,mylitaafkaa (naaVfaitfida tnma ^ a( my home town. 1Uedo).'aaa I Jait lissmil oar year and a half snniveisary' last 9a>­day—a year and one half of wedded bliss. As for our old croiUes—brie0y, Jim Bareess is still at Toronto Hi^ . Toronto, O-, a member of the astute faculty of that fine institution. When last I saw Jim last November he looked lilffi the vety picture of health. He is faculty advisor on the paper published there and is doinGT a bans'Up job on it hesades contributing: to the city papers in the. towns close by. By the way he owes me a letter—mention it next time you contact him. 
"Vic Bedc is now classed with us married guys. He and Hary Margaret Smith, whom you no doubt remember from her many visits to the campus, were wed a week ago. The Toledo papers carried a full account of the ceremony and from what I could read between the lines, Vic conducted himself like the excellent young la^vyer he is. . . . Walking through the Grand Central Station the other day on my ivay back from a trip into New England, I noticed a young man in a Navy uni­form. It was none other than Ensign Art BInlhern. His brother. Jim, is in the Army." 
Congratulations, Jack, on the wife, the new job, and the fine letter. I^t's hear from you again, soon. 
Next 15 a letter from Corporal Eddie Mattingly, now stationed in the War Department Civilian Protection School, at the Agricultural and Mech­anical College of Texas at College Station, Tex.­He is head of the drafting room down there, likes his work, the Texas country," and the beautiful girls who attend convent schools in his vicinity. Nuf said. 
On April 26 a "hello everybody" card arrived from Sharon Anne whose mother and dad are Mr. and Mrs. Jade Bfoalder of South Bend. Sharon Anne was bom on April 22. Congratulations, Jack. May the child grow up to be the prettiest and loveliest ^rl at the Senior Ball in 1962. (Eds note: If she looks like her mother, she can't help bat be.) 
The last week in April I received a letter from John Cleary who is now in officers* training school in Fort Benning, Ga. Jack will graduate with his gold bars in the latter part of June. Congratulations, Jack. Sorry to be slow in an­

, swering your letter. Oh yes. Jack said that when he left Camp Edwards, Mass., another N. D, man, Jdin Moipliyy '35, took over his old job. 
And this from another sen'ice man, Pvt. Chudc ­Daly: "The last time you heard from me was sometime in November when Ed Grogan and I batted out a letter. Since then I have joined the Army Air Forces which resulted in my seeing quite a bit of the country. At the time of joining I had aspirations of being a cadet, but having bad eyes was turned* down. However, the army decided they could use me to advantage in the administrative branch, hence I'm in Colorado going to school and intend to graduate in three or four more weeks.... Would like to see an 'Alumnus' and find out where some of the boys are. I^eon Lancaster is a corporal in Fort Ord. Calif. Bob Derenogski, the last time I heard, was somewhere in Virginia. Ifcvcn't heard from Al Bntlcr since leaving school. Do you know where he is? (Secretary's note, where are you, Al?).'* 
Chuck's address is: 23rd Technical School Squad-. ron (Sp), Fort I«ogan, Colo. 
And now from another serviceman, 31el\ille 'Bud' Daric: "On Sept. 24, 1941, I was inducted into the Army at Jefferson Barraclcs. Mo. I was sent to f^rt Sill. Okla., for my basic training in the field artillery. On Jan. 6, I was transferred to Camp ClailMmie, lau, and arrived there just in tune to be transferred to Fort Dix, N. J. From there I went to Fort Bragg, and I am writing this at home (just here for a three day visit) be­fore I head for Fort Sill where I will attend Officers* Candkbte Sdiool. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
"I received a letter from Tom Shea the other day. Tom is practicing law in Toledo. He writes that Vic Bedc has recently received Ms 'greetings* and is 4iow in the army..'.. T certainly enjoyed the excerpt from Frank Garwood's letter in the April 'Alumnus* and the news about BeJwan Dnggan. I have owed Redman a letter for several years and now I'll get around to ^^Titing him. Periiaps I'll run across some of the N. D. boys who are stationed at Fort Sill. When I do, Til let you know all about than." 
Thanks. Bud, and the best of luck to yoo. 
Bud Sherwood writes from Tarrytown, N. Y. that he is still holding the fort up there. He passes along the information that Bah Hacler. ex. '38, is now in the army, assigned to the medi­cal corps. His address is 12th (General Hospital, Fort Custer, Mich. I understand that Bob is going to get a specialist rating soon for his fine work in keeping the nurses' morale high. Bud also writes that Iran (Ivancevic) Vance resigned from (General Motors at Tarrytown and is now con­nected with the Spcrry Company. 
finally, there is this postcard from Pat Gorwaiu Bte scribbles, "Pm still 4-F and it looks like an LI/.B. come this June. Tom Flyxin is dointp a swell job with the Truman 0>mmittee. Joe Cole is hand­ling the R.F.C. for Jesse Jones between classes at (Georgetown law, Scott Beardon is in the FBI Agents* School. Luke Tieman will get a first lieu­tenant's commission any day now.* 
Not to brag, fellows, but I would like to point out that this column scooped Winchelt on that llernan announcement. And that's something as it is the first time that Winchell hasn't beaten me when it comes to Hernan, one of Windtell's closest friends. 
The response for my plaintive and desperate cries for news—^news—news was great. Keep it up. 
Adrian Race is a student at St. Francis Sem­inary, St. Francis, Wis. Lou Giragi» editor of the "Winslow Mail," was recently elected a member of the Arizona state legislature. 
Nick Lambcrto is^now an aviation cadet, getting his basic training at Randolph ftetd, Tex. In March, Daniel Gibbs, Jr., and Tom Callahan re­ported for primary fli^t training with the Navy, at the Naval Reserve Air Base in Glenview, 111. 
Pvt. Ned Fishwick is in the 13th F. A. Brigade, Hqs. Battery, Camp Blanding, Fla. Paul HcAtdle. a private in the U, S. Army, is located with Fli^ t B, 305th T.S.S., Keesler Field. Miss. BOl. Nolan is now an ensign at Great Lakes, 111. 
1939 
Vincent DeCourscy, 4540 Jarbae, Kan­sas City, Mo. 
COMBIENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Louis Demer. South Bend; William Meyers, 
Elgin, m.; Carl L. Sabo, South Bend. 
Trom Vlncc DeCoarsey: 
Having by this time recovered from the shock of recdving a copy of the "Alumnus" instead of the usual little yellow card with its reminder tliat for a month we have been shirking onr respon­sibilities, it is with a good deal of pleasure that we are now looking at a neat pile of letters, notes and gleanings from here and there. And. by the way. that "there" grows daily more and more important. 

First: "Mr. and BIrs.-Thomas Francis O'Neil request the honor of your presence at the mar­riage of their daughter Annette Jane to Bichari Joseph CMrila, Identenant. United States Karisw Cterps, on Monday, the 18th of May at ten o'doek' in the morning Saint Patrick's Chur^, Xiaitf Beach. Florida." And good luck, Dick! Some weeks 
before receiving this formal notice through Uncle Sam's cens(»«d mails, there came a short note in -tiie usoal O'HeUa style giving tiding of the same event. Dick is at Jacksonville. Fla.. instructor in 

- Squadron 13 (instrnmeat or blind flying). His 
new lather-in-law is a Notre Dame graduate of -1918. 
Dick- announced that he bad run into Frank Kdly» happily married and working for the Foley lAmber Go. in Jacksonville. Dicl^s address is 
B.O.Q. 800, Room 230 N.A.S.. Jacksonville. Ha. Or it was before the event mentioned above. 
Hien. a long letter from George J. (Jack) Neu­mann of the United States Army. Letter was writ­ten from (Chicago, on furlough from Langtey Field previous to being sent to Maxwell Held in Ala­bama as an aviation cadet. Says Jack: 
"Joined the Army last May. assigned to Coast Artillery and sent to Camp Davis in North Caro* Una, had a wonderful set-up as assistant to the chaplain and morale officer and my job was prin­cipally public relations and planning the entertain­ment and recreation program for the regiment. VLaA ft great time, managed to get to Atlanta for the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech football 'game last &i1l, xaet Didt Benedict's wife and their gong in Atlanta, and enjoyed a bull session with Dick 

- until dawn. 
"War and then orders to active duty and we were moved up the coast and down to business. Twenty-four hoar doty, really serious, and, sta­tioned at I^angley Field; it was not long before we .had the flying bug bad. After applications, exams, and interviews a group of us were ac­cepted and transferred. Onr station at Langley is only until school starts at Maxwell and they have fadlities for us. 
"Johnny Waldi has been in Field Artillery for a year and now is joining the air corps. His folks said be was to start training around the first of March. Bart O'TooIe transferred to air corps ground crew. Jack Benedict is going to ofHcers training school. 
"Gene White is still in Chicago in Law School and hopes to finish before being called." 
Tliat wound up Mr. Neumann's long and inter­esting letter. If we had just a couple of letters like that a month from someone in the service. we might he able to show something about the somewhere of this ckiss. 
Then from Dino Falrioni early in March. And just an aside to thank Dino for his contributions this past year or so. To him goes the distinguished journalistic cross with a diamond palm; no one even touches him as correspondent, Dino said he had just learned of the death of OUie HeRand's mother. This was our* first* knowledge of the second death in the Helland family. The sympathy of Notre Dame men certainly of the class of '39 must go out to the family. 
Paal Donoran (says Dino) took the bar in Al­bany in Uardi and early In the month became a proud fJEtther. Boh Ortale also took the bar with PauL Dino says that his tMrd year of law begins oa June 15. and we certainly want to wish him . luck and a good wriUng arm during the next publication schedule. 
FrcHn Ed Claries mother in Des Motnes, la., came a note that says Ed is a second lieutenant in the Marines, stationed at Midway Island. 
IBd toolc his training at Quantieo. Va.. and then was sent to Camp Elliot. San Diego, before being transferred to his present batUe post. Sitting throng many and many a long Economies class (Oaifce, Davis, DeCMirsey got to sound like a Htany after a couple of semesters) with Ed, it is a little hard to imagine him oat on the Patific, 

while we're itill back here trying to produce diecae and milk and assorted other things in as normal a way as pos^Ie nnder the circumstances. We do want to thank Ed's mother for the note and to say at this time that we welcome all such contribations. I do know that there must be a laise number of mothers and wives and sisters who read the "Alumnus" every month and could contribute a great deal of information about various members of the class. Please, if you have been hesitating about writing, don't delay any longer. We're glad to hear from you. 
Kext a nice long letter from Ken Hlgby. Ihis late in Karch from an Army camp, 

"Several years ago I was taking sraduate work at Northwestern U. in retailing, but higher learn­ing didn't agree with my business interests. I woriced part-time at a Sears Boebuck neighborhood store. After ending the venture into the realms of metaphysical retailing and a trip to San Fran­dseo, went to work for Hadigan Brothers back in Chicago—a department store on the West Side. The Hadigans are Notre Dame people and my relationship was always of the most cordial. I started in a small basement ready-to-wear depart­ment as manager, a humble beginiung in a field I had been aiming for since leaving N. D. But 1 really was quite thrilled about it all. Six months later the store was reorganized and I managed to np myself considerably—to assistant buyer in the regular ready-to-wear departments. Then came the draft. 
"At this time in Chicago I saw a lot of Frank Fitdi at Ckrson's. We occasionally rounded np some of the boys for a good gab. Red Neumann was always there. Bah Sdiirf (last I heard of him he was learning to fly at Bantoul. III.) and I saw a lot of each other at various times. Carried on qidte a correspondence with Jim Baaf down in Uma, Fern, but don't know where he is now. 
"While sUtioned in Texas (to get back to where the draft blew ns out) tried fo get in touch sever­al times vrith Tex Tonnr but never canght him in. I work now as a battery clerk, and do some reporting for the local paper 'The Eodiak Bear." Or did I say that I was at Fort Greely, Alaska? Anjrway I hope to get to Officer's Training School before too lone" 
Now if Ken will only write again to somewhat approaching the length of this last letter, telling vrtiat went on in Alaska, and where he and a great percentage of the rest of (he N. D. army are, the next issue of this "Alumnus" ought to be pretty loa^ 
Frank Toyne is now a benedict. Event took place in the Log Chapel early in Hay. Frank by the way, has a fine position at the Benungton Arms plant here in Kansas Gty. Tom Beatdon is no longer amongst us, having taken a position with an insurance company in Wisconsin; whose name I am absolutely unable to remember. He will be in Chicago for some time commencing the middle of Hay. Julie Tonsmeire is in Des Moines (more later). AI Schmidt is waiting for the army or the navy, whic3i ever one wants him the most—and we are waiting for the reclassifica­tion of the 3-A's. 
Boh Peny, whom we remember from the old days in St. Ed's hall as the terror from Alabama, called np one night on his way through Kansas City. He was on his way to Officers Training School at Ft. Warren. Wyo. Boh is in the Quar­termaster Corps. And no sooner had we gone out that night than another phone call came from T«ai Beny. no longer of Denver, but in some branch of the service and leaving no destination; We are very sorry that we were not able to meet either of theses but want to extend an invitation to anyone pasring through to eome out, or at least to call np and arrange a meeUng l^aee. 
From the IT. S. Naval Reserve Aviation Base at New Orleans, La. came a nice letter from Chah HalL Chub would like to know the whereahonts of Ed Qnimby, Monk SnlBvan, Jack GiUia (ac­cording to Bab Perry, he was in St. Louis still) Greg Cashing, Al Nigm, John Davis, fm SchrciiH er (last report Co. C, 28th HTB, Camp <?rant; HI.) Frank Habig, PhU DlCrocco, Bill Barton, Paal Kelly, little Joe Sullivan. Charles Eihgrave. And so would we. 
"As for myself," said Chub, "I've spent all my time since graduation working for the Smith' Bros. Hardware Co., Columbus, O.. until last Feb. 26, when I decided that Td rather fly than walk, and here 1 am, freshly soloed and looUns for Stukas. 
"Jim Connell's and Gene Poietto's deaths were certainly a shock to me (as they will be to most of us; does anyone know the details?) Rod AwM­dale, who also had been with Smith Bros, vraa drafted about a week ago and last I heard was at Ft. Hayes. 
"Paul Kelly was through Columbus one ni^ t last winter taking an army transport column to Fort Wayne. Bing Binkowski, they tell me down here, is a squadron leader at Pensacola now, and a married man." (Kelly is now in Australia—^Ed) 

Thanks a lot for the letter. Chub, and lots of luck to you. For those mentioned in Chub's letter, and everyone else, the address is S2CV5,nSNRAB, New Orleans, La. 
And as usual a last letter managed to soueeze under the wire, much to our great relief, ^lis from Julie Tonsmeire, late of Brooklyn. Bridge­port, Kansas City, and now of DesHoines. Julie is still with U. S. Rubber, and working at some defense plant in the Des Uoines area operated by that company. To quote Julie's letter; 
"Last week-end the N. D. track team blew into town for the Drake Relays. BiH Bbhaney hasn't changed a bit, I thought I could offer him some entertainment on Saturday night but he had already made big plans with someone nice from ­Minnesota. I had hoped to iind Joe Zandel when I reached Des Moines but he is married and living elsewhere. I understand. I met Ed Claike's family and they surely have been nice to me. 
"On my way out to Des Moines from Philadel­phia 1 stopped off in Chicago for about eight hours to visit Jack Dnfly and Frank FnnsioH. Neither of them are married yet, but I wouldn't be sur­prised to see them both step off before long. Frank is still with U. S. Steel at Gary and Jack is still with fltzpatrick Bros. Soap Cbmpany in CThicago. 
"A letter from Dave Heskill says that he's try­ing to get into the Navy. (He's in—Ed) He said he was godfather for Luke McGoincss* child In January. I see where Pat Bannon joined the Army. Bill Mahoney said Fat apparently just up and left the FBI." 
And a few other remarks, among them that Bob Sdiroeder left to join the Air Oirps shortly after Christmas, Julie \vinds up and signs off­^vith a "Enough is Enough." And so it is. 
Bob Sdmltx is a lieutenant (junior grade) in the Naval Reserve and stationed at the V. S. Naval Air Station, Quonsct Point, R. I. Bob was a large credit to Notre Dame when he scored 72 out of a posablo 75 on an Otis Intelligence test; no mean achievement, friends. 
BUI Piedmont is a field representative of the Knights of Columbus Boy Ufe Bureau and travels over the country in the interests of the Colombian Squires. 
Paul Donovan received his baehdor of laws from the Cornell Law School in March. He is aSiliated with the office of District Attorney Walter B. 
Reynolds, of Elmira, N. T. for whom Pan! worind assistinc in his private practice and eriadiial -work in the.somoer of 1940. Paul is married to fiie former Hden Lonergan, of Elmira. and flicy have a son Matthew PanL 
Ariatton Cadet Jeha Gadd. Jr.^ ex. '39, reeently repraied for further ffight training at the Green­ville Army Hying School, Greenville. Miss. 
Thsmas SeiigM. Jr.. is taking Us advanced Army flight training, after bavins sradnatcd ficaa basic IG^t training at Enid, Okla.. in April. 
r940 
••hctt G. Saafwd. UU N. Maiyhad Ave.. IBIwaakce. Wia. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Juan E. Cintron. Sooth Bend; Joseph Fdd­

meier, Paden City. W. Va.; P. Anthony Gnarino, 
Notre Dame; William Hogan, New York Otj ; 
Cecil Jordan, Notre Dame; Danid LaugUin. Oii­
cago; John Martin. Jamaica. N. Y.: Bohert L. 
Wille. Cincinnati; John B. Willmann. Williams-
port. Pk.: Edward P. Wnrtzebaeh, Notre Dame. 
Trom Bsh Saafard: 

After collecting news for two and one half months it lookB like I am going to be writins for two OT three days to get this all out. Before aetnally getting started I want to remind thooe of yoa that wrote in February and Mardi that it was impossiUe for me or Bill Ooaley to get your news into the "Alumnus" before now; it was just one of those delays that could not be rem­edied. 
Use first three news items were sent in by some very loyal followers of our dass. Tbey £ d not graduate with na but have just as mndi inters est in oar class as any of us. One note was btm Mr. J. J. D«mohae telling us about PhU Daashac. He writes: Thi l Danehae. who played with the Notre Dame golf team in 1938, 1939. and 1940, is stationed at the Enid Army Fl^ng School Hos­pital. Enid. OUa. 
"Iliil has been in the serviee the past five months hting located first at Ft. Leavenworth, Kans.'; three months at Camp Grant. 111. and now at Enid. He is in the hospital division of the Air Corps. 
The second loyal follower is Miss Emiline Mi­zersld, who has some information about her brother, Dick. She says: "My brother, Didc 
ROLL OF HONOR 
n b la the last fstmal •idaia af UaaC Jai 

T. GsaaA 'W. a( the Anay Air Gai»i^ wha 1 kObd Dee. S fai a cradi aver JUifca. 
Milrniti, enlisted as an Army Flying Cadet and is now stationed at San Antonio, Texas.** 
Mr. Ed. J. Ijyng, father of Dick Lynff, tells us some very interesting news about his son. "Dick volunteered on Jan. 9 of this year and was enlisted in the Air Corps division of the United States Army. He sailed to Australia on the first big convoy that made a non-stop trip from San Frandsco and a cable received on March 13 noti­fied us of his safe arrival. 
**A letter or a card from any of the fellows that he knew at Notre Dame would be a thrill for him in a Strang land. His present address is: Private Richard E. Lyng, 676th Ordnance, 1st Platoon, A.P.O. c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif." 
I thank those that sent in this information. We certainly want to know about our friends and classmates who have entered the service and also about those who are doing their part outside of the service. I ask all of you that read the "Alumnus," whether you attended N. D. or not, to let me know where our college buddies are and what they are doing. 
Talked to Hr. Karr last month and he said that Jim Karr was home for a few days, but now he is back in Washington, IXC. taking a Naval train­ing course. Big Dan Hodiek is no longer stationed at Jefferson Barracks, Mo. His days as staff sergeant have ended and he is now attending offi­cers training school at Miami, Fla. 
Dan might be able to find John Webster at Lakeland, Fla.. if the happy little flyer would just settle down for a few months. John wrote saying: "You're trying bard, but in the last issue of the 'Alumnus' you are still two jumps behind me. From Cincy I went to Middletown where I got my commercial pilot's license and instructor's rating. Then I headed home to Lakeland, and am now starting on a refresher course after which I will be an instructor in an army contract school —you know, the civilian schools which give the flying cadets their firist 60 hours of flying. 
• "It's really great to hear what is happening to the gang. Don't know what I'd do without the 'Alumnus*—and if I don't begin to pay soon, 1*11 find out. Tell the Milwaukee gang hello for me. I'd lite to be back there for just a day or so to see them alt. Hie address is Box 478, Lakeland, Fla. (letters welcomed—and answered)." 
Eddie Hart has been getting around the country ploity and I knew that if he ever would write the result would be a masterpiece. So, I give Ed's first letter: "A letter from Jade DeMoss, who is out at N. D. teaching in the metalliirgy labs, and studying for a doctor's degree suggested that I drop you a line seeing how I've been running about the country occasionally bumping into some of the boys. 
"Previous to coming to Philly, I was stationed at Bochester for nine months. During the summer I ran across several of the fellows. Andy DeSimon was around every wedc-end. as he works in Bufl'alo for Army Ordnance. Jerry Flynn used to beat it 
•down from Batavia. where he was radio an­noundng to see his friends at home. Bad Gentner was flying planes out at the local airport, having returned from the Air Corps. Walt Sullivan, ex. *40, used to dnQ} down from Buffalo occasionally, where he is working for Bell Aircraft. He sees Ross King and the Mrs. quite a bit. Russ vms celdrating a year with Worthington Pump at the time. 
"One day in December 'the t>owers that be' de­eded that I diould work in the oftice so here I sit in philly at the Philadelphia Signal Depot. I expect to return to Bodiester soon in charge of telephone inspection for the Signal Corps in that district, as 'we are opening a brandi oSice there. 
"Tnir Cdia and I took in the N.D.-N.T.U j and ran across several of the fellows down Bear the bendi. Ed Maker was there, dedced oat In U s sailors mufomu He works for'the Navy in tiie Recruiting Office at 90 Church Street, N. T. Bed Martin, Jim Rodgers, and Vxn Byan also came along to make quite a reunion. lAter in the night we bumped into Bill Tadcer at tite Wood­stock. "He was getting ready to go back with tiie Air Corps as an instructor. He had qpent the summer working at Budd Mfg. in Fbil. 
"Hooked up with dmdc Patemo the ottier ni^t for a show in New York. He is really wcnting his head off at med school. Jim Kelly wrote recent­ly to say that he is working for Republic Steel, in Canton, O., now. 
"Pat filbran was In Aberdeen, Hd., going to Officers' IVaimng School until recently, and be hopped up to Philadelphia for a day. He ran across Jim Moore down there, also training to be an officer. 
"Bill Cleary moved along with Brewster Air­craft to a small ton-n outside of Philadelphia. We got together the other night, and bumped into Bill Bams, who was heading towards the Y for some ecercise. 
"Another E.E. is with the Signal Corps down here. Jack Kane, '41, who is currently stationed at Bendix Radio in Towncnd. Md. IHcfc Witte writes occasionally when in port, as he is a radio man on thb Coast Guard Boat, 'U.9.S. Hunter Liggett.' 
"If Don Foekett reads this, 'Drop me a line.' I haven't beard anjihing from him in several months. He was getting ready to go into the Army at last reports. (He's in.—^Ed.) 
"Johnny Else was working at Pratt 4fc Whitney in Hartford, preparatory to returning to Bolbtlo to work for Chevrolet, testing motors. He reports that Shad Cannon is up there also. He says tiiat Jade Wiban is still with G.E. Dave Sprafke wrote saying that he was still at home in Ikriden, Conn., worldng at Miller's Lis^ting." 
Ed has come through in great style and bis address when he wrote this in March was; 0.8. Army. Philadelphia Signal Corps Procurement District, Wissahickon and Abbottsford Avenues, Philadelphia, Pa. Write again soon, Ed. 
Hie next letter is from the U. S. Ibirincft lo­cated at Morebead City, N. G. Bill "Dock" BaiH nan writes: "I see that George Haggerty's name frequently appears telling of his wanderings with the l^rines. Kght now he is here at New Kvers, 
N. C, although I hear tiiat he is due for ccHnmuni­cations school in New Jersey. Tom PUlpett is also here and BUI BeasSey was here but he has left for the famed 'Duty beyond the seas' accord­ing to the latest word. 
Tom O'Brien was at Quantico but left the Coiits on a medical sun*ey about a year ago. A friend of mine returned from Norfolk Naval Hospital and said that he had seen Sdiidtel there recovering from some mishap while on duty with navy svia­tion. 
"Oh yes, my wife (yes, I've been married a year) received a letter from the Mark Erfd"^— the proud parents of a nine months old baby giri. Mark is working for Perfect Circle. 
"As for yours truly Tm just puttering around in the Marine Corps—^have been almost since graduation. It seems that I had a little more news for you, but I just can't remember it. How ahoot some word from Art Msddslms, Jee McKaan* Curt Hester. Bob Solliran, and any of the crowd that have joined the Marines." 
llianks. Doc, and here is his address: 2nd Lt. USMC, Hdq. Div. Spl. l^s., Ist Marine Diid^on. Fleet Marine Forc^ New River, N. C. 
Another letter from Christy Flanagan. I hope he becomes a regular contributor now that he has the habit Christy writes: "I do not want to become a premanent fixture in the class of *40 column but I was so enthused when I received my order from the Navy Dept that I could not hold back my feelings. 

"When this conflict began I was in great doubt if I would ever get back to the campus again. I did so want to see it before I went on active duty but my chances looked very slim. I had been hoping that I would be sent to Northwestern for my training because that would afford me the opportunity to return to the campus once more. But as fate would have it, I received my orders yesterday and when I read that I was to report to the University of Notre Dame for a month's 'toughening up period' I almost passed out. I read my orders through twice to make sure that my eyes were not deceiving me but each time that I read it, the name of NOTRE DAME stood out in bold i^pe—my eyes had not deceived me! I am to report back to school in the middle of April. It does make a fellow feel better to know that his own Alma Hater will play such a great part in the present conflict. It also puts a fellow in a different frame of mind to know that we can go back to Our I^tdy, to be bcMde her again, to prepare ourselves for the greatest fight of our life. 
"I am only hoping that I will see many familiar faces in the training school—some of the old gang that I used to cat with, go to class with and had fun with. 
"That's all from this point—good luck in your own ventures and I hope that you have the same good fortune that I had." Thanks. Christy, and I sure am glad to hear of your good fortune and I know that everyone in our class envies you. It^s np to you to show those other guys In training what we N. D. men think of our Alma Mater. 
Jerry Saegert, whose address is I8th Co., TVain­ing C^oQp, Armored Force School, F t Knox, Ky., wntes: 
"After graduation I spent one year graduate study at Fordham University in New York, study­ing child psydiology. Bdng home for one year was enjoyable and gave me a chance to take part in tte New York N. D. Chih activities.... Last summer I was a life guard at a New York public beach, and enrolled in the CAA flying ^.coarse whidi I began in September. I went out to the Southern Gal game and stayed at Bad Kerr's home. It sure was good to see b h AndriacdU, CAoWy Gililiand, and my roommate, Larry Dev­
"Christtnas. found me visiting the draft board. Ihey told me to join the Air Corps or go in the army.... So on Jan. 11 I enlisted and was sent to Fort &IQK, for my ba^c tnuning in the tanks. After ttgbt weeks I was sent to the Armored Force Sdiool as a company clerk where I now am. I have applied tor the Officer Candidate School. Adjutant Graeral's Department as a stu­dent psychologist in the classification department I have reeelved word that I am to go to the summer class, but definite word as to my ap­pointment is still forthcoming. 
"Miy dad died suddenly on March 4 while I was here at Knox, and I wanted to notify the 'Bulletin* so that prayers would be offered for him. 
"I met Tad Harrcy, and Jee Saauoers here last wedc They are in the ofHeer candidate sdiool and will reedve their commission In about two months. I sure would like to hear from Waliy Barer. CkaiBe Kdly, Vie Vergara, Jerry Flynn, and the rest of the S t Ed's A.C. hoyi. 
"On April 11, 1942 I became engased to Hiss HarieScavuIIo o£ Forest Hills, New York, and was able to set home on furloagh to celebrate the event." 
Jack Cole* of South Bend, was recently inducted into the Army. 
Jeiui Jojrce, was married in October to the form­er Hiss Hartha Hu^es and they are living in Phoenix, Ariz., where John is with Joyce and Company, in the general insurance business. 
Paal Kr«yer, ex. MO, formerly a staff announcer for the South Bend Tribune's station, WSBT. has enlisted in the U. S. Naval Reserve as a store­keeper, third class, and is undergoing recruit training at Great Lakes. Arthar Anderson enlisted in the Army Air Corps and is stationed at Fort Logan, Colo. 
Jaaws Ckaiy, of Detroit, has been commissioned a second lieutenant in the medical corps. Edward Half is a military stenographer. He writes that he is no longer in the 107th Cavalry, having rcc^ved a permanent transfer to Has., 751st H.P. Bn., Camp San Luis Obispo, Calif. 
Patrick Brennan, a member of the "Upper Peninsula "Wildcats** Naval air squadron, has reported for further flying instruction at the Naval Air Base, Dallas, Tex., and John Powers is with "Satan's Angels." He is completing his final ten-week course at Foster Field, Victoria. Tex., after which he will be commissioned as sec­ond lieutenant. 
Bin Blmm is also flying for lincle Sam, and taking his present training at the Enid Army Flying School, Enid, Okla. 
A naval aviation cadet, Ralph Wingfield. at the Naval Air Station, Building 24-2, Room 111. Corpus Christi, Tex. Jowph Carr, ex. "40, is a flying cadet at Ellington Held, Tex. 
Den Foikett writes from Fort Bragg, N. C, that he is attached to the 66th General Hospital there getting basic training in medicine. He passes on the news that Phil Wade "is at Camp Forrest, l^n. , and that his brother, Chariie Wade, is at Fort Knox, Ky. 
Faal Hallen, of Uount Lebanon, Fa., received, in April, an appointment as aviation cadet at the 
V. S. Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla, Before reporting to Jacksonville he completed elimina­tion flii^t training at the Naval Reserve Air Base-in Phihidelphia. Frank Ciolino is now a cadet in Company D, 1st Q. M. School Regt., 
Q. U. School, Camp Lee, Va. 
John Fisber has arrived safely in Australia with an American battery unit, according to a cable­gram recdved by his parents. He left the United States in January 
Charlie Cobb, more about whom will be found in another part of this column, writes from 2428 Ave. K. Galveston, Tex. to Bob Sanford: "After getting my Haster's, I went with the V. S. En­gineers here in Galveston as a iunior engineer in the dedgn section and have been able to get a good deal of experience.... we are dedgning air fields to be built in Texas. 
."John Starine, '.19, worked here for a while, but joined the ground crew of the air corps last fall and left for the East. 
"Ja& Powera, '37, was married last January and is Uvins in Bay Town; doing fine the last I heard from him." 
The following items regarding civil engineers ate from the April "News-Letter," issued by Prof. Walter Shnts. head of the C. E. Dept.: 
"Edward Baldinger has been progreasing rap­idly, from the.dty engineer's office in Gatien to Hr. Sckey's assistant on the new Notie Dune Heat-Power Lab., then as instrument man onithe layout of the new shell-loading plant at Kings­bury, Ind. The Charles Cole firm has undertaken a similar project in Illinois, and Ed was trans­ferred there upon completion of the Kingsbury plant. Ed was married last fall. Edward was also admitted to the American Society of Gvil En ^ neers this year, as a junior member.' 
"Two letters from Bobert Chamberiaio have arrived. After working for some time for the con­tractor of whom we heard more than once. Bob went to work for the Fittsburgh-PesHoines Steel Company in Pittsburgh with Bob Gallacher. '39, At the same time he enrolled for night classes at the University of Pittsburgh with thought of a master's degree. 
"After leaving here, Charlie Cobb took a job teaching descriptive geometry, six hours a week, and working for his master's degree at California Institute of Technology. With 52 hours of class a week at Tech, he seemed to feel that we hadn't worked him too hard at N. D., after all. When last heard from Charlie was with the U. S. Engineers working on canals and power and flood control in the Galveston, Texas area. 
"^Vhen Harry Kecfe finished, he went back to Boston in the office of Stone and Webster engin­eering company. 
"A letter from Pat McFarland in Nov., 1940, stated he was 'in training* in Bethlehem Steel Company's Lone River shipbuilding yard in Quin­cy. Mass., nntil Feb. 1942. 
"After working for a time with his father, John HcGnire began designing sewers for the U. 
S. Army Base at Jamaica. His address is still New Rochelle, however. John has begun work at New York University towards a master's degree in civil engineering. 
"Gerald Morriasey has been heard from on sev­eral occasions and seen at least once at Notre Dame with Hrs. Morrissey. He has been with the Salem Electric lighting Company ance gradu­ation, and goes by the title of power sales engineer at present. Gerald decided in January to try for the Civil Engineer Corps of the Navy during the emergency, but was found to be color blind. 
"A recent letter from George Penniae describes his work as shop contact man for the Cnrtiss-Wright Company, airplane division, in Buffalo; the duties of this group are to bridge the gap between the designers and the shop. George is in charge of three groups in this division and a busy man. George married Emily Gray from Co­hocs last November. Before this job, George was in the city engineer's office at Cohoes. 
"Frank Toyne ably assisted Carnegie-Illinois Steel Company wth its problems for a time after graduation. He is now working with Remington Arms back home in Kansas City." 
1941 John W. Patterson, Jr.. 5SSI D*ISBC­ton Bd., Pittibargb, Pa. 
COHBIENCEHENT REGISTRANT Edward M. Porten, Chicago. 

From John Patteison: Since I've been down here at Wheeler lots of things have happened. BUI Hawes came througji with a letter stating that he had completed train­ing at the Naval training station in Newport, B. I. Barring new developments he is now a yeoman working in the office of the Chief of Naval Operations; in Washington. 
I have word from one of the cooks in our company that Charlie Dillm is in the midst of an officers* training course at Fort Kiox. 
Hawe« npoits that CIUT Backley was at Ftott Sin training, and is now an oSleer. Cor^ WtM*k McGtsitr mites that he is enjoying his job in the air corps sopply division at Hyrtle Beadi. S.C. 
Jack HnuMssy is stationed at Fort SUL Beb Byrata Is «t Jacksonville in the Navy .Mr Corps with'ottiera of the "flying, fighting Irish." 
JM Bfkhr came through again. Be has been: one of the best of the correspondents. Joe is at' Fort KeCnley, He., in the headquarters battery. 
Hy old opponent of the W. J. Burke golf eooxae. Bay ClsikCk writes that he misses the tense golf matdcs ot by-gone days. As I previously reported, Ray is at IVnt Bragg. 
A new memb^ of the corresponding staff showed np when Hewie EasiA wrote. He is in the Air Corps at HaxweU Field. Ala. Howie sends news that Pat PBtBaat is in training as a bonb­ardier. JSie also says that Jim Fati, ex.' '42, is learning to drop "eggs" in the right plaeea. Bowie notes that JaA Laadry. Chack FancH and Beb ScUayer are all at HaxweU in primary flight training. 
One badly raiq>laeed guy has written. DL G. SaUvaa came through to say: "Ihe boys seem to have had me making everything from riveta to airplanes." In truth, Gerry is an inspector of naval aircraft with the Gmniinars Aircraft Bag. Corp. on Long Island. 
D. G. reports a few wedding items. Jim Harray is married. Ed Hynes also has settied down with a wife. Ed is a corporal at Fort Aberdeen, Hd. Bab Warddl is a ground crew man in Bangnr, 
Last, letter to reach me since my last column is a note from the AH-TIme Oliver AU-Amcrican, now Bisgn K F. "Duke" Ifarpby. Duke is in the eonmnmlcations division cf the Navy, and not on his way to Harvard as Al Ferriae wrote. INike sajrs he has seen Al sinee and atraii^tened him oat. BIB Ktaawr is at IVirt Honmoath, N. J.. says Hr. Bisign Hntphy. 
Keep these letters coming, genUranen. Yon bums who are not writing, start. Pd emedally like to hear from some of the medical students who have so much free time compared to us army guys. All the civilians oo^t to drop a card or letter. 
Jeny Laskawski. ex. '41, of South Ben4 was recently inducted into the Army. Walt OVea n is a flying cadet in the U. S. Naval Beaerve, and undergidng intensive ffia^t training at Jackson­ville, Fla. 
Beb Msraa, a private in the air corps, is in Barracks 202, 1st Sdiool Squadron, Chanute Field, 
m. DaytSB Kart. ex. '41, of West Palm Beach. Fla.. was recently eomnussioned as second Gen-tenant in the Army Air Corps. 
Chalks Dsagherly spent several months in the Air Corps at Jeffenoa Barracks, Ho.; got into motor mA and transferred to a light mainten­anee motor emnpany; and is now at QJCC. OS ­cen Canfidate Sdiool, Prov. Bn., Co. A. Fort Warren, Wyo. 
Sccead tkat . Hatthew HiheGd[ received his wings and commission at Blather field, Calif., and is now stationed at Barksdale. La. 
Jeha W. llaanea is master sergeant ia the Signal Cotpt, e/o USAFBI, in London, Eng, 
Fnak Keaaedy. in Hdqs. Coi. SCKIC, Ouap Crowder. Ho., writes: "I thon^t I eoold hold oiit until sooae word about my fOTmer rooanaatet Phn Jskaaaa. ameared. hut he has appaiantly gone into a ffisappearing act. 
"I "WBS sworn in at Camp Grant* III., Jan. 30. arrived at this Signal Corps training center on Feb. 5, did two •weeks of fatigue detail opening the not-yet completed camp. "Went to basic school for two weeks, then spent two more weeks in the school for administrative clerks. 
"Following my t\vo weeks there, I was pulled out and made an auditor (Prof. Chizek will snick­er at that) in the camp inspector's office. I expect a pretty good rating after my initial four month period. 
"Universal N. D. Night we are going to have a get together of all the N, D. boys here in camp; there are about 10 of us plus two alumni who live in Joplin. "Die blow-out will be at the home of one of the fellows in Joplin. The only N. D. man Tvc met here so far is Gregoiy Cecala, a much traveled member of the class of '37," 
Frank Santos recently completed his primary and basic flight training at Jacksonville, Fla., and is now at the Naval Air Station, Miami, Fla., to complete his advanced training. 
Dudley StoHer and Joseph Callahan enlisted in the Navy Air Corps and will report soon for pri­mary flight training. James Esdck, is an aviation cadet in flight training at Ifaxwell Field, Ala. Tom Carty is in the 2nd Heporting Co., 505 Signal A. W. Regt.. Drew Field, Tampa, Fla. 
William Spalding^ was commissioned a second lieutenant in the air corps, and is at present stationed at Hsler field. Camp Beauregard, La. On May 2, he married Miss Virginia Babb, of Memphis. "While at Lowry Keld he met Lieut. Ar­thur Hnmby and Lieat. Jim Barret, '40. Art, who recently became engaged to Miss Dora Phelps, of Tampa. Fla., is flying the P-38 out at Lowry field, Denver, Colo. And Jim is a second lieuten­ant in armaments. 
Arthur Lee, of Carlinville, III., reported for naval aviation flight training in April at tlie U. 
S. Naval Aviation Reserve Base, Atlanta, Ga. 
Richard Donahue, ex. *41. in May received his Navy wings at Jacksonville, Fla., and now pro­ceeds to active duty as an ensign in the Naval Reserve. 
News from the April *'News-Lctter" of Prof Walter Shilts, head of the department of civil engineering: 
"Bay Bairley has been employed since June. 1941, by T.V.A. at Gilbertsville, Ky., in the con­struction of a dam across the Tennessee river. 

"Andy DeSimon is with the Ordnance depart­. nient at Rochester. 
"Tom Talty was called away from Illinois Bell Telephone Company to join Uncle Sam's Army and left Bob Dyke behind to uphold the honor of the class of '41. Bob wras helping to extend the telephone facilities around Hammond, Ind. 
"Jerry Hidsey joined Bairley at Gilbertsville in July. He tried to leave there in December hoping the Navy would be in need of his services, but discovered he had become rather essential to his boss at T.V.A- Joe McCangfaey is with the Sani­tary District of Chicago. 
"We hear indirectly that Joe Russo is running a ICTCI in Alabama for T.V.A. 
"Bill Wilson was very much at home in an ultra-modem air-conditioned drafting"Dlficc at De­troit Edison one day last summer 'when it was about 110 degrees outside, designing reinforcing for concrete floors, transformer vaults, etc In a . letter in October he said he was drilling holes and looking for bed rock, for a new plant, and says be is learning some soil mechanics on this job. Ihen late in November comes word that Bill had gone to work for Great Lakes Dredge and 
Dock in Cleveland, under my good old friend Karl 
Marterstecfc.*' 
1942 
William E. Scanlan, 701 W. Wisconsin PorUffe, Wis. 
From Bill Scanlan: With this issue, the "Alumnus" expands. A new member is added to the ranks. 553 members ­of the Class of '42 join hands with the 25,000 Notre Dame men of the past in the ranks of the alumnL lbs Class of '42 welcomes the ojpportanity to keep track of its children in this mis^^ medium,-the pet diversion of Editors Jim Arm­strong and Bin Dooley. 
Someone should tab this class the Militia Hen. 

or the Military Men, or perhaps the FIghUngest fighting Irish. If early indications mean anything, prosiiects point toward the Class of '42 soinff all-out in aiding the Nation's War cause. Even at the Commencement exercises May 10. five men returned from distant points to receive their degrees in uniform—^Nidc Pepelnjak from Wy­. oming.' Jim Dnggan from Rhode Island. Jade 
(ex-"SchoIastic*' editor) Reilly from Illinois, Vic 
Corcoran from Michigan, and Bill DeConrsey from 
Missouri.... all wore colors of the Army. 
Continuing the military motif, that quintet which walked off ^vith degrees first—^the Marines —were Bemie McKay. Dan Cnllinane. Mike Hines* Jim Conway and Bruce Hebenstreit. They had to leave early to catch a train for Quantico, Va. 
Class President Jim O'Neal received his call to report as an Ensign at Great liakes. 111., Friday before graduation but a hurried call from Cap­tain Burnett of Notre Dame's Naval Unit brought O'Neal a reprieve, long enough to lead his Hen of '42 for the last time. 
If anyone wants to sharpen up his golf same, he might dash east and \isit Tom (Editor) Powers at a Great Neck, L. I., N. Y., golf range. Tlie "Scholastic's" latest chief will manage that range since another brother has joined the service. 
Paul Edwin Neville, who has been chasing "scoops" for the South Bend "Tribune" for nearly two years, invites visitors to South Bend this summer to frequent the police room at the City Hall. He's not an inmate, just reporting. Anaiser Soromers and Tom Banigan are doing graduate work in chemistry at Notre Dame. Charia Lokr remains close by, holding the fort at the engi­neering lab of Studebaker's in South Bend. ' 
Engineers, more in demand than ever before, have their heyday now. Chemical engineers slated for ensign commissions in the U. S. Naval Re­serves are Charlie Bedcer, Frank Pollnow, Gene Hntmadicr John Costa, Bill Maraiiall and Earl Dean. 
The Philadelphia Signal Depot provides the whereabouts for John Donnelly, Bill Teaser and Bemie Wojdk who have joined the Civil Service contingent as junior ensineering inspectors. Jim Hill, the dvil engineer, is heading for the Phila­delphia Navy Yards. Jim Bnrkhart and Bokert Hexl will be Philadelphia companions, at the Naval Aircraft Factory. 
Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Corp.. claims the services of Bill Mingcs at South Ghariestown. W. Va. Joe Champlcy and John Borda have joined General Chemical Defense Corp. at Point Pleasant, 
W. Va. 
Tom pegnan and Tom Blohm besin work soon at Jackson labs of duPont in Wilmington, Del. Walt Cordes has accepted a iiost with the Indus­trial Engineering division, also at duPont. 
Georse Uhl joins the forces of Reilly Tar and Chemical Co.. Indianapolis while Jubn Cmiry and 
JadE Scherer will make their engineering debut at McDonnell Aircraft. St. 'Louis. Bart Crowley will work for Joseph £ . Seagrams and Sons. Inc., Lawrenoeburg, Ind. 
For something different, the meadowlark of '42. AntiHMiy Prosper Donadio, will divide his time between the Maryland Law School and the Pea­body C6nser\*atory of Music, both at Baltimore. Ray Donovan, who became a married man during Senior Week was, at latest reports, uncertain as to his journalistic connection. 
Hedical - students are scattering widely. Joe Berfan» Ed Glaser, Felix Lownik are to study at Loyola in Chicago. Georgetown claims Joe Palmer, John Rtngkr, Robert Donahoe. Ray Gad ^ Dom LoGiadice, Ed Monahan and Ed SaBiTan. Bill Farrdl will continue studies at Long Island Uni­versity, John Halleck at Ohio State, John Hart­man and Ken Sbeedy, U. of Buffalo; Clarence Imboden, Tulane; Bob Johnson and Gcoi^e York, Albany. N. Y.; Ed HcLoone, George Washington; Bab Mak»ne^ Western Reserve: John Sheedy, St. Louis U.; and Leo Torgeon, Greightob. 
Northwestem's Medical school provides the fu­ture whereabouts of Donal Petersen, and Jim Leahy. John D. Horan is debating between Co­lumbia Dental school and the Army Air Corps. Bernard Harhadi is -definite—its Columbia Med school. Richard Matlarish heads for Illinois. Pete Moalder for Chicago. Wellington (Bete) Stewart. Rochester—all med schools. Ray Pancheri will line op with Seagram Distilling Company, Louisville. brandi. 
Fred Payne, Sorin Sub's talented science stu­dent, continues graduate study at Notre Dame, mming at an M.S. in chemistry. Thomas Schmidt from Lakeland, fla.. and Gilbert Zimmerman, Burbank. Calif., four year rivals as representatives of the nation's best weather regions, join the same staff of the U. S. Rubber company, Misha­waka, Ind. 
Collections for the plaque honoring Howie Pctidwl, first member of the original dass of *42 believed lost in action, totaled $16.01. Bill Rey­nalds, Georcc Uhl and Jade Dinges made up the collection committee. Details of the placement of the plaque will be announced next month. Pro­ceeds available after the cost of the plaque will be sent to the Prefect of Religion for a Mass Fund. 
The Big Three of Chicagoland^-JDon Hogan, Tom Teamey and Tom Nash—collaborate again. At Notre Dame in the V-7 program.... With Team­ey back, national football broadcasts via Stern, Bray and Co. seem assured. Tom has been their right-hand man as a spotter for years. James Patridc O'Longhlin is another Marine, headed for Quantico, Va. 
Kurvard presents the future attraction for Jim Parodl, the orator-thespian in the industrial en­gineering course, for Student Council President Gene Schnmacker, badness administration, and 
J. Q. (The Week) O'Connell. law. John Malone may also enroll there. 
Hiat masterful combination of student, singer and t«3>-dancer. South Bend's own Albert Abra­ham Floddn, has been accepted by the Hebrew Union College, Cindnnati, Ohio where he will join the ministry. Bob Uhl is awaiting call to the army, via the draft. Bob Timmel and John Ja­wvrsU expect a similar career. 
A trio of phy-eds have landed coaching posi­tions. Jim Rice returns to his alma mater. Reeds-burg, Wis., as assistant coadi; Paal Patten lines up in Salt Lake City, Utah; while Joe Laiber -will beetMue assistant coach at Washington High school. Sooth Bend. Jim Bratz has joined Lt. Hamilton's physical fitness brigade. Tom Hoyer left for the army two days before Commencement. 

Bill Hidter, the actor, ioins his dad's firm as a 

- steel salesman in Chicago. It is Lapharo-Hickcy Steel Corp. Bfike Carr will help manage his dad's meat market in Indianapolis—^until the army calls. 
Navy V-7 is the future destiny of John Biieae, Ted BfacDonald, Stere Joxwik. Wade Nods, Ed Weinfnrtner. Ben Ciacdo. and Don Grant. Hereo­lea Bereolos, Hike Hamphreys, Stere Graliker. and Ed HackeU are aimine: for V-5. Walt Heekin is bound for the Army air corps. 
John Bernard (Mr. Architecture) Carney hoi>e3 to continue architectural studies at Iowa. State. Geone Crowley. John Peters, Elden Slick, Jim Beninser and Gordon Wilcox are scheduled for General Electric at Schenectady. N. Y. Diogenes Ansdakos soes to Westinshouse. Pittshursh. alon;; vnth Andy Gorka, Clair Rirely and Fred Trenkle. 
Larry Berko, Charles Shirk and Norbert Moore are joining Cnrtiss-Wright at Buffalo, while John Gilbert becomes a part of Caterpillar Tractor in Peoria, IlL John Hanifin is with General Electric branch at Erie, Fa. Ed Kirchman represents Curtiss-Wrisht of Patterson, N. J. Bob LeJeone, the radio mogul on campus, is with the Glenn 
L. Martin. Baltimore. 
Morray O'Toole and Bob DeMoss have become associated with the National Advisory Committee on Aeronautics at Langley Pleld. Va. John Hoel­sdter and Tom Roarke are with Bell Aircraft, Buffalo, while Herbert NiQes is with Carbide and Carbon. Charleston, W. Va. 
Recent enrollees at the Great I«ake8, lU.. Naval Training Station are Gcorce Sobdc and Sabby NowickL Bill Reran is anglins: for a post ^t h the Navy's physical Htness program. Jerry Or««a and Frank PUtt are together again, as janior directors of physical training at ^Isa , Okla. 
Tom Reilly is affiliated with General Electrie's Fort Wayne. Ind., plant. All the Ia\vyers are much like St. Mary's girls standing in front of a mirror in a hat shop—they can't dedde. Host of the A.B. and Commerce men were much the same—the Army service stands in the background of current ambitions. Time will tell-
For those who haven't done so already, it is time the members of the Class of *42 send on their yearly contribution to the cause of the Notre Dame Alumni Assodation. Send according to your means, direct to the Alumni Association, Notre Dame, Ind. Anything from a dollar up is perfectly acceptable. You'll be hearing more about this later. 
In the meantime, "If it's news, write Scoop." 

Philip Francis Sheridan rejKirted, on May 6, for Naval Aviation Flight Training at the Naval Aviation Reserve Base, Atlanta. 
Clarence Costello, Jr., was recently appointed a naval aviation cadet and was transferred to the Naval Air Station. Pensacola, Fla. ­
ADDITIONAL MILITARY MEN 
(Including names received up to May 21) 
Akolt, John P., ex. '40. Army Air Corps. 
Anderaon, Arthur F., '39, Fvt., 24th Tech. School Sauadron, Sec. D, Platoon S, Fort Losan, Colo. Anderson, Paul H., '38. Medical Replacement 
Training Area, Camp Barkeley, Tex. 

Bales, James E., '37. Ensign, U. S. Navy. , 
Bannon, John W., '32, Service Battery, 5Sth Ar­mored F.A. Bn., 5lh Div., Camp Cooke, Calif. Barry. John W., '41, Naval Aviation Flight Train­
ing, V. S. Naval Aviation Reserve Base, Squan­

tum, Mass. Barry, Thomas G., '39, U. S. Marines. Baum, William A., ex. '41, Co. M. 14th Signal 
Service Regt., Fort Monmouth, N. J. Bayer. Phillip J., '38, Pvt., Officers Training, Co. F, 15th Signal Service Regt, Fort Monmouth. 
Red Bank, N. J. Beck, Charles V., Jr., '38. V. S. Army. Benitz, Timothy E., '32, Finance Office. Bradley 
Held. Windsor Locks, Conn. Bernhardt. Eocene H., '33 Y3C. U.S. Naval Train­ing Station, Great Lakes, III. Biaiioni. Paul A,, '37, U. S. Army Med. Det. AC, Jefferson' Barracks, Mo. Binkowski, Benedict F., '39, U. S. Naval Air Sta­tion, Pensacola, Fla. Bolcer, Matthew J.. Jr., ex. '44. U. S. Naval Re­serve Air Base, Glenview, 111. Bonrke, Norman F., '40, 503rd Regt., 3rd Co.. Drew Field, La. Braden, Lawrence H„ '41, U. S. Army. Brennan. Patlidc J., '40, Naval Air Corps, TI. 9. 
- Naval Reserve Air Base, Dallas, Te.x. Brennan. Walter J., Jr., '41. In service. 313 S. Tenth St, Philadelphia. Pa. Brawn. WUIiaM C . '32. In service. 
Bmm , William P., '32, Sergeant Co. I, 39th Inf., Fort Bragr. N. C. 
Bruccoli, Matthew- J., '37, Sergeant Hdqs. Co. 1222 B. Ind. Center, tl. S. Army Camp Upton, 
L. I., N. Y. Buckler, Joseph L., '41, Hdqs. Battery, 2nd Bn., 8th C.A., Fort McKinley, Maine. Bulger, Thomas R.. '39, Pvt, Co. Ai 33rd Bn., Sth Regt., Camp Crowder, Mo. 
Bunch, Dr. RoUm F., '33, Major, Chief of Surgical Service, Station Hospital, Carlisle Barracks, Carlisle, Pa. 
Burke. J. Vincent '33. Ensign, USNR. 
Bums, Robert E.. Jr.. '41, Air Corps. 80th Bomb Sauadron. Grenier Field, Manchester, N. H. Butorac Francis P., '31, Naval Training Station, 
Notre Dame, Ind. 

Canizaro, Dr. Vito J., '29, Fort Jackson, S. C. Cass, William P., Jr., '32. Ensign, U.SJJ.R. 'Centlivre, Austin J., ex. "27, Battery B, Sth Div., 95th Armored F.A. Bn., Camp Cooke, Calif.' Centlivre, Robert E., '40, Oificers Training School, 
Fort Monmouth, Red Bank, N, J. Cerney, William J., '25, Lieut, Annapolis. Md. Clark, Joseph C, ex. '34, Lieutenant N.T.9., Naval 
Air, Station. Quonset R. I. Clark, John O., '32. In service. Collins, Elmer J., '23, Captain, 32 Constince Ave., 
Southern Hills, Dayton, O. 

Comella Martin S.. ex. *33, Lieutenant Medical Replacement Training Area, Camp Barkeley, Tex. 
Conley, James A., '41, Lowry Field, Colo. Conveise. Maorice J.. '41, Lieutenant, Lyndall 
Field, Panama City, Fla. Conway, Franklin L., '27, U. S. Army. Conway, Patrick J.. '30, U. a Navy. Corbett, William J., Jr.. '27. Lieutenant, U.SJI.R. 
Cwcy. Edgar A^ .'41. 1st Balloon Squadron, Pott FIdd. Fort Sill. Okla. CartiBaw CbRae, V... Jr.. ex. '42. Naval Air 
Station. Fenaaeola, Ha; Cai7 . Gaatsc '28. lieutenant U.SJI.R. ~ Ciaata. DaT» P.. '38. Pvt., Medieal Detadnwnt. 
Payne FSeU. Everett, Wash. Crmriejr Gkailca A.. '18^ Captain. Air Force btelr . 
ligenee Sdwol. Harrisburg. Pa. Crawler. GeraU J.. '29. U. S. Navy. CaUlaaB. Daniel J.. '37. Officers Candidate School 
11. Fort SUl. Okla.' 

Daltaa. Thaauw F.. '34. lieutenant (j.g.). Naral Reserve^ Armed' Guard School. U. S. Dcatroycr Base. San Diego, Calif. 
Daly. Charhs F.. '39. PVt, 23rd Technical Sduxd Sooadron (S-P.), Fort Logan. Cola. Dark. XdriHa E.. '38, Officers Candidate School. Fort Sill. Okla. DeLay, Bageae E., '41. Fvt. Co; F, 5th Q. It. Tmg. Regt, Fort Warren, Wyo. Dcrenw, Angatt J.. '41, Pvt, Co. D, 17th Tr. Bn. B.T.. Fort KeCIellan Ala. Deaster, Fraacia K, ex. '34, U. S. Naval Training SUtion. Great Lakc^ 111. DaoIoB, Fiaada J., '38, Corporal. 3Ist Bn.. Camp Croft S. C. Daoskae, PUBp A., '40, Enid Army Flying School Hospital. Enid. OUa. Dora, Bicfcard J.. '41, Lieutenant Quartermaster Replacement Tmg. Center. Camp Lee. Va. Daaghertjr, Charica T.. '41. QJLC. Officers Candi­
date Sdiool. Frov. Bn.. Co. A. F t Warien Wyo. Doyle Vlaeent A., '40, Aviation Cadet Dnnham. Edward J., ex. "44. Pvt, C.R.T.C.. Troop 
A. 4th Tmg. Sq. Fort Riley. Kans. Dntt, Arthar B., '33, U. S. Navy. EnglAart, Charka J.. '39. Co. C. 2nd Regt. Quar­
termaster School. Camp Lee; Va. Erra. Aiikn U, '30, V. 3. Army. 
Fagan. James E., '34. Pvt. 15th Signal Service 
Hdqs.. Fort Monmouth. N. J. Fair, Williaaa F., ex. '32. Englewood Arsenal. Md. Fairall, Hertert C Jr.. ex. '35. Marine Corps. Fancll, CkadcB J.. '41. Aviation Cadet Army Air 
Corps. Sq. C. Class 42 I, Darr Fid. Arcadia. Fla. Farrdl, Franda T.. '39, Officers Candidate School 
10. Fort Sill. Okla. Feigasaa, Hamer W., '41. In service. Fishwick, Edward H., e.x. '38. 13th F. A. Brigade. 
Hdqs. Battery, Camp Blanding; Fla. 

Fitzgerald. Oaaald A., '27. Yeoman (3rd Class). Co. 288. Great Lakes Naval Station, Illinois. Fitzpalrid^ JehnJ.. ex. '30. Ninth Naval IKsCrict. 
Great Lakes; 111. Flanagan, J^m C, '40, U. S. Navy. Flint, Kakert J.. '33, Lieutenant e/o N. T. S. (I), 
U. S. Naval Air Station, Quonset Point. R. I. Ford, Jamea B;, ex. '42. Army Air Corps. Foskett. Danald A.. '40, 66th General Hospital, 
Fort Bragtf. N. C. Fox. Kajawad M.. '34. Indoctrination School, F t Schnyler. Bronx. N. Y. Frimmer. Adalpli H.. ex. '44. Pvt. 73rd Material Sq., Craig Field, Ala. Froelidl. Gerraae A.. '27. Lientenant (j.z.). USNR. 
Gallatfwr, William J„ ex. '42. Naval Air Coivs, Room 212. Bldg. 803. Jr. B.O.Q, Naval Air Station. Jacksonville. Fla. 
Gaffivan, GUkert C '37. Sergeant Hdqs. Battery. 52nd F. A.. AP.O. 1104. e/o Postmaster. San Frandseo. Calif. 
Geary, CaiacBa E.. Jr., '40, Troop C, Sq.S . CJLT.C. 2075 Fort Riley Kans. 
Gdker, Darid A^ '39, Ck»st Guard Academy, Be-serve Officers Tr^ning School, New London, Conn. 
GiOiii Flnndi D., ex. '42, In senice. Gem . Ralpk A., '41, Ensign, USNR. GtUman. Irwin L., '36, Co. A, Second Platoon, 
54th Hedical Divison, Camp Barkeley, Tex. GottMdwr, William A., '36, Co. G. 5Ui Regt., Fort Warren, Wyo. Gnkum, Williaai H., '37, Oflicers Training School, Camp Davis, N. C. Gaatnieii. Paal A., '36, 6th Surgical Hospital, Co. A, 2nd Platoon, Fort Knox, Ey. 
Hall, Leo Ednrard. '39, U. S. Naval Reserve Avia­tion Base, S2C V5, New Orleans, La. Hannon, Jalm W., '41, Master Sergeant, Signal Corps, c/o VSAFB 1, London, England. HarfM. Jafan B., '33, Army Hdqs., 102nd Inf. "A.P.O., c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. 
Hart, Edward J., '40, U.S. Army, Philadelphia Signal Corps Procurement Dist., Wissahichon and Abhottsford Avenues, Philadelphia, Fa. 
Hartnett, Vincent W., '37, Ensign, USNR, U. S. Navy Dept., Washington, D. C. 
Haya. Jahn J., '34. T9th QM. Co. (Depot-Supply), Communications Zone, Advance Depot, Sacra­mento, Calif. 
Henanlt. Maaiiee G., '42, U. S. Naval Reserve Anation Bas«, Glenview, 111. Benilee, Edward B., Jr., '41, U.S.S. Alberraarle, c/o Postmaster, New York City. Hicky. Bidurd L., '39, Co. B, 3rd Ord. Tmg. Bn.. Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md. • Bilkbrand. Leo S., Jr., '41, Lieutenant, 8th B.O.C., Harine Barracks, Quantico, Va. Bofaunn, Jmepli A., Jr., '33, tio. A, )4tli S.S. Best, Fort Ifonmouth, N. J. Haon , Dr. Biikard J., '29, Lieutenant, Navy, Hedical Division, U. S. S. Eanawana. HOIBUUI, Cheater D.. Jr., '40, U. S. Navy, Navy Bids., Constitution Ave., Washington, D.C. 
Bopkins, Francis J., '41, U. S. Navy, United Ser­vice Club, 17th and Locusts 9ts., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Bapldni, William E., '40, Cadet Regiment, Avia­tion Cadet, U. S. Naval Air Station, Corpus Christ!, Tex. 
BocwC, Charle* F.. ex. '34, Yeoman, Great Lakes 
IVaining Station, Great Lakes, 111. Bafnacel, Andrew D., '36, V. S. Army. Bnchea, Jahn M., '31, Ensign, U. S. Navy Base, 
Jaclcsonville, Fla. Bacler,' Bakert J., ex.~'38. Medical Corps, 12th General Hospital, Fort Custer, Mich. BantliBuen. Norvall M., '41, Athletic Instructor. Jefferson Barracks, Ho. 
Barley. Jame* E., '41. Pvt., Hq. Co. 53rd Armored Engr. Bn., A.P.O. No. 258, Fort Knox, Ky. Bynea. Edward J., '41, Corporal. Fort Aherdeen. 
Hd. 
Johnston, Benjamin D., '37. Army Air Corps, Brooks Field, San Antonio, Tex. Jnige, noma s G., '41, Naval Aviation Base, Gn»ae He, Uich. 
Kalexmiki,' Danid F., '36, Great Lakes Naval Trainine Station, Great Lakes, 111. Karr, Jamea J., "40, Ensign, USNR., Navy Yards. 1106 E. Street, S.B., Washington, D. C. Keaney. Dr. Jahn BL. '32, Lieutenant, Army Med­ical Corps, HadMU Field, Tampa, Fla. Kdlr. Itijmai il J.. Jr.. '41, USNR Midshipmen's School, CJiicaKo, HL Kfnfdjr, Frands B., '41. Hdas. Co., SCRTC, Camp 
Crowder, Ho. Ktaneir, Haitia F.. '32, Army, Aherdeen, Md. Keiser, Addph £ „ '41, Hdq. and Hdq. Co., Begt 
(A.W.), Camp Hoan. Calif. Kiefcr. Alfred O.. '39, Corpsmen Quarters, Naval Ho^ital. Great Lakes, HI. Kiifcy. Edward 8.. '36, P»t., Platoon No. 207, Ee­endt D^t., Harine Barracks, Parris Island S.C. 
Klinr, Werner B.. ex. '38, Aviation Cadet De­tachment. Scott Field, HI. Kiiatoir. Walter W.. Jr., '4i; Olficers IVaining School, Fort Monmouth, N. J. Kmyier, Paal F., ex. '40, Storekeeper-third class, 
U. S. Naval TVaining Station, Great Lakes, HI. 
Lambert, Hidiael S., '41, USNR, Abbot HaU, Chi­cago, III. Lambert; Robert H., '40, USNR, Abbott Ball, Chicago, HL Landry, John F., '41, Aviation Cadet, Class 42-H, ACTD, Douglas, Ga. ' Lanigan Francis J.. '39, Officers Candidate School 
11, Fort Sill, Okla. Leahy. Hanrice, '39, Army Air Corps. Ldiherx, John W.. '39, Ensign, U. S. Navy. Lee Albert B., '41. U. S. Naval Aviation Beserve 
Base^ Atlanta, Ga. Leibin. Charle* G.. '37, Sergeant, V. S. Army. Personnel Office^ Camp Crowder, Mo. Lopez Aimand IL. '41, U. S.-Naval Reserve Air Base. Glenview, HL 
Lync, Bidiaid. '40, Pvt., V. S. Army Air Corps, 676th Ordnance, 1st Platoon, A.P.O., c/o Post­master, San Francisco, Calif. 
Haher. Edward J., Jr., '40, Naval Recruiting Office, 90 Church St.. New York City. Haher. John J., '34, Medical Replacement Training Area, 53rd Bn., Camp Barkeley, Tex. Mahoney, William P., '39, Ensign, USNR, Annap­
olis, Md. Marranca. Joaeph N., '41, Camp Croft, S. C. Marznila. Lewis J., ex. '37, Medical Branch, Signal 
Corps. Fort Monmouth, N. J. Mazanec; Robert J.. '38. Pvt, Co. M, 325th Inf., 82nd Div.. Camp Claiborne. La. McArdle, Paul J., '39, Army Air Corps, Flight B, 305th T.S.S., Keesler Field, Miss. 
McAnliffe. John B., '37, Ensign, USNR, Naval Engineer Corps, 3714 N. Prospect Av e Mil­waukee, Wis. 
McOevitt. Barley L., '29, Lieutenant, USNH, Chevy Chase Club, Chevy Chase, Md. McDowell, John A., e.x. '44, Co. 67, Great Lakes, HI. McFarland. Thomas F., ex. '32, U. S. Navy. In service in Pacific 
McGeever. Joseph B., '41, Ensign, A-V(S), USNR, Patrol Wing Nine. Naval Operating Base, Nor­folk, Va. 
McGorem, Joseph L, ex. '43, Naval Reserve Air Base, Glenview, 111. McGnil. John B.. *37, Army Reception Center, New Cumberland, Pa. McLeese, William V., e.x. '41, Pvt, 16th Signal Platoon. Army Air Base, Baton Roage, La. McNamara, James E., e.x. '40, Corporal, Co. D, 34th Inf. Trng. Bn., Camp Croft, S. C. Meagher, George B., '36, Medical Corps, Engineer Hospital, Georgetown, British Guiana, S. A. Meancy. John W.. '40, Ensign, USNR, 2722 Es­
planade Ave., New Orleans, La. Medland, Charles J., '33, Fort Belvoir, Va. Meyers. Mdvin 6.. '34, Battery B, 69th AJFJi. 
Bn., A.P.O. 256, (6th Armored IKv.), Camp Chaffee, Ark. 
Miller, Edward B., '24, Lieutenant, Navy Inspect­or, Way-Lin Blanor Apt, Garrett Rd., I,ans­downe. Pa. 
Miller, John J., Jr.. '39, Pvt, 821 Aviation Engi­neering Bn., Ihicson, Ariz. Moran. Robert E.. '41. Pvt, Barracks 202. Ist 
School Sq., Chanute Field. lU. Holhem. James W., '38, U. S. Army. Mnllins, Laurence A.. '31, Lieutenant, USNR, E09 
E. Davenport St, Iowa City, la. Mnrphy, James G., '37, Co. F, 5th Qmtr., Fort Warren, Wyo. Mnrphy, nomas J.. '36, Co. H.. 6th QJC Itag. Begt, Camp Lee, Va. 
Hurray, Bev. Edmund J., C.S.C., '34, lieutenant Ch. A.U.S., Hedical Replacement Training Area. Camp Barkeley, Tex. 
Nalaa. William B.. '38, Ensign. SC-V-(P). Great Lakes. HL 
Cakes, Bayatand W.. '35, Storekeepet^^third class. Great Lakes Naval Trainintt Station, HL Okdenaa, Stanley C '32, Co. A, 26th Bn., ERTC, 1 ^ Platoon. Fort Leonard Wood, Ho. OVriea. Hatthew H.. '31, Ensign. U. S. Navy, Navy Yards, Charleston, S. C. CBtieu. Hichad J., '31. Ensign, U. S. Navy Ynrda, Charleston, S. C. 0*8110. Ikaaua W.. '38. Yeoman-Srd dass. Ab­
bott Hall. 710 Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, HL CCauwII. Dennk J., Jr.. '34. V. S. Army. Oekler, WilBaa E., ex. '42. BIdg: 701, Room 137 
(Cadet), Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla. aVeim, Jahn L.. '37, Yeoman-2nd class, U. S. Naval nidnins Sta.. Platoon 205, Norfolk. Va. OlCmme, ftaada J.. '32, Pvt. Co. A, 2nd Bn. AJ.H.T.C, Fort Knox. Ky. CHeara. Edward F„ '40, 403 Tech. School Sq., 
Barracks 688, Sheppard Field, Tex. OTaale, Barlfctlsaiew D.. '39. Air Corps. OTsale, Lawrence J., '36. Co. A. Bldg. P-133, 7th 
Quartermaster Tmg. Regt, Camp Lee, Va. 
Fankratx. Eagene St. ex. '40, Hospital Corps School, U. S. Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, HL 
PeniMv Alfred J., Jr.. '41. U. 9. Navy. Perry. Bsbert C ex. '39, Officers Trng. School, Quartermaster Corps, Fort Warren, Wyo. Philipp, Walter F.. '31, Lieutenant Philadelphia Navy Yard, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Piadii, Bay W., '40,. Corporal, Station Hospital, Enid Army Basic Flying School, Enid, Okla. Padkinr. Jahn A., ex. '35. USNR. Great Lakes 
Training Station, Great Lalces, III. Pawers. Walter T.. Jr.. '35, U. S. Army, Signal Corps, Fort Honmouth, N. J. Picstan, George J., '40, Army Air Corps, Scott Fidd, Bdleville, IIL PaSer. Steven E., e.r. ^43, Co- H. QMC Replace­ment Tmg. Center, Fort Warren, Wyo. 
(tulter*. Thomas J., ex. '29, Captain, Intelligence . Division, Army Air Corps. 
Qalna. Edaumd J.. Jr.. '41. Second Lieutenant, Basic School, Harine Barracks, Navy Yard, Philaddphia, Pa. 
Qaimi. Jascph H., '39. Co. 120, Barracks B, Naval naining Station, Newport R. I. Qainn. Julian W., '34, 405th SS-ACKTC, Barracks 214, Sheppard Field, Tex. Quinn. Maaiice F.. '37, Staff Sergeant, Headquar­ters, tr. S. Army, Fort Niagara, N. Y. 
Rapp, PUnip C, ex. '44, Battery C.265 GJV., Fort 
Taylor, Key West Fla. Bcnier, Kemi O.. '32, In service. Bkkas. BasuD B.. '34. Pvt. Ued. Det C.A.S.C. 
1908. Camp Cooke. Calif. Biaer. James L.. '31, U. S. Army Air Corps, Key Itdd. Heiidian. Hiss. Kabiaaao. Jahn O.. ex. '42, C. Div.. U.S.S. Alcor. e/o Postmaster, New York City. Ranenitftn, Charles G., '37, Corporal, Co. C, 12 Bn. 4th Regt. Fort HcCldUn, Ala. Baaan. Jaaeph BC. '37, PVt. U. S. Army, 23rd Teeb. Sdiool Sq.-Sp., Fort Logan, Colo. Baaa, Jshn J., '32. 11. S. Army, Fort Monmouth, 
N. J. 
Buis. Frederick. '28, Lieutenant, CJI.P. Co. A, Barracks 2, Camp Williams, Lehi, Utah. 
Sacgeit, Gerald W.. *40. 18th Co.. Tmg. Group, 
Armored Force SchooL Fort Knox, Ey. SaCa. Fanis P.. '40. Fort Sill. Okbi. Sanaa. Babert J.. '41, U^NA Base, Barracks 
24-6. Corpus Christi, Tex. Sanders, Jahn F.. '31, lieutenant A-V (S), USNB, Volunteer, Spedal Service. 
Sckafer, AUeit H., '37. Battery B. S6th Field Ar­
tillery, Bids. 6313, Camp Roberts, Calif. ScUdnl. Nsikcrt H., Jr., '40, Navy Air Corps. SduBid. Ckarfcs W.. '41, Seaman 2nd Class V5. 

U. S. Naval Aviation Base, Glenview, III. SiktMder, Batcrt C '39, Air Corps. Sdnlls. Katcrt J., '40, Lieutenant. CSNB, Naval 
^ r Station, Elizabetli City, N. C. Sdmacher. ABan F., '32, S63rd T.S.S., Flight A, Jefferson Barracks, Ho. 
Serxe, Anthany P., '37, Sergeant, Headquarters 4th Hotoriied Kv., Office of Div. Chaplain, Camp Gordan, Ga. 
Scwud, Bcr. Edward J., '34. Army Chaplain. Sluip. Wimaai J., '37, Ensign, USNB. Liberty 
Hotel. Hiami, Fla. Sheppacd. Kakert A., '39, Jefferson Barracks, Ho. SdwdtMHy. Jaaea W., '28, Army Air Corps. Sitdb jMcpk P., '32, Fvt., Headquarters Flight, 
2<th Technical School Sq., Jefferson Barracks, Ho. 

Skvin, Spaldinc U, Jr., ex. '44, U.SJf., 1739 "I" Street, N. W., Madison Apts., Washington, D.C. Sawriuiiy, D«iaU G., '41. Pvt., Co. B, 1st C.W.S., 
Tr. Bn., Platoon 4. Edgewood Arsenal, Hd. 

Saitk, Lawrence W., Jr., '35, Aviation Cadet, Pilots Replacement Center, Squadron 2, Flight E, San Antonio, Tex. 
Sniadewiki, Alfred A., '37, Sergeant, U. S. Army. Stapkton. William B., '36, Hdq. and Hdq. Detach­ment, Fort Eustis, Va. Stelte. Francis G.. '41, TJSNR, Abbott Hall. Chicago. Storaia, Tlwmas F., '41, USNR. Abbott Hall, Chicago, HI. 
Straeter. John R., ex. '37. WMCB Unit 650, U. S. Marines, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco. Calif. Sacnet. Rakcrt F., '41, Lieutenant, 5th Interceptor 
Command, Orlando Air Base, Orlando, Fla. SalUvan, Daniel F.. '38, U.S.C.G.. Manhattan Beach, Co. M., Brooklyn, N. Y. SalUvan, John P., '39. Hdqs. Co., 34th Armored Regt., Bth Arm. Div., Camp Cooke, Calif. 
Talty, Ikoiaax E., '41, Corporal, U. S. Army, Co. 
A., 3rd Separate Chemical Bn., Fort Bliss, Tex. Ticmey. Thaaas JS., ex. '40. Army Air Corps. Tiadln. Jaaeph F.. ex. '30, Army Air Corps, 
Brookleisfa Field, Ala. Trainer. Vincent E., '40, Co. D, 8th Bn..- 2nd Div., Fort HcCIellan, Ala. TiMsdale. Bokert V.. '37, Co.'A., 3rd Ord. Trng. Bn., Aberdeen Proving Ground. Md. Try, Andrew C '38, Pvt, 65th C. A. Battery C, Inglewood, Calif. Tynan, Harold A., '27, IT. S. Navy. 
UUenhakr. Jaoeph C, e.-£. '40, Great Lakes Naval Trainins Station, Great Lakes, III. 
Voes. John D.. '30, U. S. Army Air Corps. Wade. Philip H., '40. Barracks 1, Co. C, ISOIh Inf., Camp Forrest, Tenn. Wall, Awtin J., '40, lOTth F.A., Battery A, Camp Livingston, La. Wanner. Geoise L.. '27, Starekeeper-2nd Class, V. 
S. Naval Training Sta.-Di&bursing, Great Lakes. III. Wawell, Dr. George C, '31, Captain, 635T Morrow-field Av e Pittsburgh, Pa. Weakley. Harry H.. '37, Pvt.. Co. E. 2nd Bn., 6th Harines, Camp Elliott. San Diego, Calif. Wekater. Williaal G., '32, 2nd Class Yeoman. Recruiting Office, Los Angeles, Calif. Wcbh, Philip F.. '37, Lieutenant, U. S. Array, Columbus General Depot, Columbus, O. WilWr, William F., '29, Co. A 26th Bn., ERTC, Fort Leonard Wood, Ho. 
WllliaaMn. Frederick W., '38. Sergeant, Battery I, 6th Coast Artillery, Fort Barry, Calif. 
Zieskr, Thnaui T.. '39. Army Reception Center, . New Cumberland, Pa. Zstler. Cad J., ex. '44, Battery B, 33rd Bn., 8th 
Tt. Begt., PART.C, Fort Sill, Okla. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
98TH COMMENCEMENT 
(Continued from page 20) 

men who left the Gymnasium immediate­ly to make connections for the Marine Corps base at Quantico, Va. Five other members of the class received their di­plomas in uniform. Some received.than in absentia. And most of the boys gradu­ated were either under deferment or faced with immediate classification under the selective service. Just as prayer is more widespread in adversity, so Notre Dame is closer to alumni in emergency. And the 1942 Commencement held for the graduates and their families and the le­tumed alumni an intensity and a lich-­ness of sentiment somewhat lacking in the happier years. 
Notre Dame's musical organizations were at their best during the week-end. "H.M.S. Pinafore," good per se under the direction of Cecil Birder, was par­ticularly appropriate and popular with the V-7 trainees and the Commencement guests, in the repeat performances that were a natural sequel to the applauded performances of the spring. 
The Glee Club, under Daniel Pedtk^ gave its annual concert to an apprecia­tive audience on Saturday ni^t. Espe­-eially effective was an arrangement of ­
G. K. Chesterton's "The Arena," a poem dedicated' to Notre Dame by the late guest lecturer. A medley of patriotic songs of the Army and Navy and Notre Dame, with orchestral accomjianiment, was also popular. 
- The University Symphony, diirected by Prof. Frederic Ingersoll, Prof. Pedtke and Prof. Birder, in the course of its sev­eral appearances, spent a busy and con­structive week-end, playing for "Pina­fore,'? for the alumni banquet, for the Class Day exercises, and for the Glee Club concert. 
And always Prof. Joseph Casasanta's University Band adds a thrilling atmos­phere to the campus. On Saturday night, an outdoor concert preceded the Wash­ington Hall entertainment. And on Sun­day, the procession from the Mass to the flag-pole, for the raising of the flag given by the Class of 1942, was led by the band. 
Unmentioned in earlier sports rejaort­ing in this story, but an athletic thrill of the week-end, was the victory, pro­viding an undefeated season, which Prof. Walter Langford's tennis team scored over Northwestern on the Notre Dame courts on Saturday morning. 
You can see, from the reading, sketchy-as it must be in this summary form, that despite the war and other resulting handicaps, the 98th Annual Commence­ment was in keeping with those of other years. For the September convocatitm, and the December Ctmunencemoit, other; times may bring other customs. We do not think the Notre Dame spirit win change. 
UNIVERSiTy AFFAIRS 

(Continued from page 2) ports, but only Ensign William P. Cass, Jr., '32, and Lieut (j.g.) John J. Kelley, '33, are so far known to the Alumni Of­fice. 
• MORALE CENTER 
Announconent of the selection of the University of Notre Dame as a key cen­ter for the government's new civilian morale campaign was made at a recat meeting of the Indiana executive commit­tee of key centers in Indianapolis. 
A five-point program for the three key centers, which include Purdue University and Indiana University in addition to Notre Dame, will provide for the estab­lishment of war information exhibits in all cooperation colleges and universities in Indiana. Speakers bureaus, such as the one already existing at Notre Dam^ will be set up wherever possible. A part of the work of the centers will be the. training of leadersfor discussion groups. 
All Washington war bulletins and other war information will be collected in the key centers and resulting displays . will be made available to the public in an attempt to inform the public about all phases of the country's war effort 
' Monbers of the executive committee from Notre Daine are the Rev. Begis O'Neil, C.S.C., faculty moderator of the Univerdty speakers bureau, and Paul Byrne, University librarian. Other mem­b^s include President Edward C. Elliott, of Purdue, President Herman B. Wells, of Indiana U., and Prof. W. S. Bittner, also of Indiana. 
• MUSIC WEEK 
Music Week at Notre Dame, from April 26 to May 4, featured The Nine O'clock Opera Conpany's presentation of "Iibrriage of Figaro," sponsored by the University; and concerts by - Jose Iturbi, noted Spanish pianist, under the sponsorship of the South Bend Civic Music Association; and Miss Helen Jep­son, of the Metropolitan Opera Company, sponsored and accompanied by the Sontii Bend Symphony Orchestra. Other contri­butions to Music Week were concerts by the University Band, Glee .Club, and Symphonic Orchestra. Most of Hie at­tractions were presented in the Gymna­sium before near capacity audiences com­posed of studraits, V-7 Naval trainees, . monbers of the South Bend Music Asso­ciation, and many other& 


)f -y- -¥­
Do Your Part 
Buy U. S. Savings Bonds Give to Notre Dame 
(See Pages 4 and 5J 

M -¥-^ 




