The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

N€TCC DAME ALUHNLS 
 Vol. 25 AUGUST, 1947 No. 4 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION NUMBER 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

/I StatemeiU ta Ute AUUMMI OH> tUe 
Office of the President Notre Dame, Indiana To NOTRE DAME MEN E\'ERY\VHERE : 
The most encouraging feature of the new University of Notre Dame Foundation to me is that we do not have to sell it to Notre Dame almnni. You already have a phase of the Foundation well established, in the Annual Alumni Fund. 
Our problem, or better, perhaps, our project—^since we know we will have your fullest cooperation—is to advance the Notre Dame Foundation through our almnni. 
As I told you at the Alumni Banquet in June, I am not asking you to give, but to get. 
^ We have been pleased and encouraged with the history of the Alumni Fund. Naturally, we anticipate that as our program clarifies and our needs are outlined we will continue to receive the increasing gifts from increasing numbers of aliunni that already mark the progress of the Fund. 
But in the scope and the urgency of our needs, our total alunrni potential would be inadequate. 
So we turn by nature and by logic to our friends. Happily, we believe that our friends are more numerous and more generous than our needs—substantial as those are. 
The problem of the Uiiiversity, then, and one which we enlist your aid in solving, is simply to translate the needs of Notre Dame to the friends of Notre Dame. We know our needs. We do not know many of our friends. You know them. They live in every community in this countrj'. They are, as you are, in all walks of life. 
Like yourselves, some can give a little each year. Some may be able to give substantially each year. And some may be interested in the major pFOJects in our immediate future. 
We will not be excessive in oiur demands, nor are we asking you to embarrass yourselves. This is a long-range, persistent program of the "infiltration" of Notre Dame needs. Many of you may be asked to participate in the direct work of -the Foundation Committees in the local area. And as you ride to work with yoiu­neighbor, as your office friends ask you about the prosjjects for the team, as friends inquire about ways of entering their sons, as your organizations emphasize the need for responsible leadership and higher education, all of you will find many, easy and lo^cal openings for oudining the program of Notre Dame as the Foimdation, and the ALUMNUS will bring it to you. 
Over the years, by accrual—of understanding of our needs, of individual gifts, and of number of gifts—^ve confidentiy look forward to sufficient return to permit Notre Dame to weave its pattern of progress; to develop the University we all want Notre Dame to be; to produce the Notre Dame that will always have, as it has now, a sound record of achievement, a high and unswerving purpose, a prestige which it shares with all who are numbered as its friends. 
(sig) REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, President and Director of the University of Notre Dame Foundation. 


The Notre Dame Alumnus^ 
Hiis magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame,-Notre Dame, Indiana.. Entered as,second class matter-Octp-; ber 1, 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana..under the act of Aneust 24, 1912. Member of tb« American Alumni Cound. 
James E. Aimalrong, '25. Editon MtniUom B. Dooley. '26. Manoging Editar': 
Vol. 25 AUGUST, 1947 No. 4 
University of Notre Dame Foundation Formed 
A Report to the Alumni on the Historical Step Taken by the • 
University on July 25-26, Throush the Executive Committee of 
the Board of Governors; Father Cavanaush is Foundation Head 
by HARRY G. HOGAN. •04. 

President of the Alumni Association and Chairman of the Board of Governors 
of the University of Notre Dame Foundation 
The University of Notre "Dame is sharing the same problems of progress faced by all of the major colleges and universities of this country. It is inevitable logic that the same appeals for the aid of friends and alum­ni which are emanating from these schools should ultimately have to come from Notre Dame. 
The Alumni Fund was the prompt rec­

ognition by alumni that the appeal from Notre Dame was deserving. The success of the Fund is a basfc factor in the new Foun­dation. First, it inspired the University to continue its plans for progress. And second, it provides the essential basis for extending I the appeal beyond the alumni limits into the 
vast field of friends. 
.Alumni Fund Inspiiation 

The 1947 Fund, the Fifth Alumni Fund, is already 7S% higher • in number of con­tributors than the 1946 Fund, as of August 1, and the amount contributed is exceeding last year's total in the same calendar period by 59%. The announcement of the Founda­tion program at Commencement was fol­lowed by a strong upturn in subscriptions. Many early contributors are adding to the original in the face of the new expanded program. As a result,,the University is im­bued with the confidence to embark on the larger, coordinated program of the Founda­tion. 
The Alumni Fund will continue to be the 

basic agency of the Foundation, which is in effect only the expansion of the Alumni Fund appeal into broader and deeper alumni I channels, and beyond those channek into the friends of Notre Dame whose legions are found in every part of this country, and far 
beyond its borders. 
Progress SotLBfactory 

The progress in the promotion of the plans announced for the program of service to The University of Our Lady at Com­mencement time has been so highly satis­factory as to be an inspiration to the admin­istration of the University and to the leader­ship of your Association. 
This significant venture revolves about a unanimity of thought and of action which must be spiritual in concept and practical in plan. Your individual and collective judg­ment must be reflected in this unanimity through which success is to be achieved. 
FOUNDATION COMMITTEE INCLUDES CLUB LEADER 

BY agreement of the University oi Notre Dame Foundation staff committee, and the Organization Committee of the Board oi Governors, the dty committees thai hare been called variously "public relations" or "Notre Dame" or "dty committees." will henceforth be offidally designated as "The University of Noire Dame Foundation Com­mittee of ." 
'And the president oi the Local Alumni-Club will be on ex offido member of the local Foundation Committee during his term oi office. This effects the dose lis and reflects the keen interest between the Clubs and their presidents ond the program of the Fotmdation. 
The Foundation which we now offer has had the prayerful consideration of the Rev­erend Father Cavanaugh and his administra­tive staff, the Alumni Association Board Executives and several of the local members of the Board of Lay Trustees. 
A Cmaode for Greater Benefits to Noire Dame 

It is the desire of., all -the elements of University interest represented in this new movement that there be a leisurely, long range, thoughtful and dignified permanent organization and effort, but that there be an immediate and increasingly keen per­ception of the needs of the University as viewed in the light of its opportunities for service. Consequently, all of the ordinary captions related to University campaigns have been obviated; this is not the "Develop­ment Program" of an. Illinois Institute of Technology; not a "Fulfilment Fund" of a Loyola University; not a "Progress Plan" for • a Williams College; not an "EndoMnnent Campaign" or a "Building Fund Cam­paign." ­
Rather, this is to be the orderly accrual to the University of Notre Dame of a broad­ening constituency interest through annual sustaining gifts which many alimmi and friends now give; of funds to provide the physical facilities needed to carry oiit pro­grams of study and research; and of further amounts to assure the highest quality of in­struction in a competitive field generally lacking in the spiritual bases which are the very heart of Catholic higher education. 
A New Bespeet for Notre Dama 

It is our belief that the movement in which we are entering must bear an attrac­tion beyond mere novelty or glamour and, that it must be so designated as to command a new respect for the broad purposes of Notre Dame. It must be inclusive in its inception so that every worthwhile interest developed toward the University may find a proper repository. It must be so protective in its nature as to insure the use of every 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

gift to the wishes of the donor when such gift has been approved by University admin­istration. It must be so challenging in its inception as to bring new levels of sights in the giving of alumni and of friends to the quality education which prevails at Notre Dame. 
It is our judgment that the best vehicle through which these objectives may be pro­moted and consummated is the establishment of "THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE D.A.ME FOUND.\TION." Broadly stated, the objectives of the FOUNDATION arc "to further the opportunities of the Univer­sit)- of Notre Dame in inculcating the con­cepts of morally responsible leadership through Catholic education" and "to help in achieWng this objective through moderni­sation and expansion of physical plant; through greater concentration of pure and applied research; through creation of en­dowment and continuing sustaining income to assure the highest standards of instruction and Catholic educational environment." 
The UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE D.A.ME FOUNDATION is being administered through the constituted authorities of the Universit)' with Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., as director, and by the Board of Governors of which Harry G. Hogan, "04, is chairman, James E. .\rmstrong, '25, vi:;c­chairman. 
A General Plan of Operation 
It has been determined by the University 

that this new program use the "ready-made" 
organization of the Alumni Association and 
its back-log of interest toward the University 
for program implementation. This decision 
has met with ready and willing response. 
It is not conceived, however, that the Alumni -Association, per se, be listed as the fountain-head of direction for the move­ment. Rather, the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNT)ATION is a dis­tinct (and separate) structure through which the Alumni Association and the Public Re­lations Department—both working \vith the Universit}-—^function, even though presently the inspiration, personnel and the general program comes largely from the Alumni Association. 
Co-Oidinated Program 
It is sensed that there has been an acute 

need at the Universit)- for a coordination of 
activities and information in the whole 
scheme of public relations. Consequently, 
it is agreed that the University, the Public 
Relations Department and the Alumni Asso­
ciation, together with x-arious other elements 
on' the campus such as special programs of 
giving to individual causes, be channelled 
through the FOUNDATION. This centra* 
channelling and this cooperation and co­
ordination bring a unity of direction in 
activities which strengthens each of the 
component parts and does nothing to dimin­
ish the efficacy of any present activity. It is noted now that there was no central source of information which showed the financial support of any one individual to the Univer­sit)': The Alumni records and gifts to the Association were in one file; gifts to special funds in the last fiften or twenty years were listed at another place; the gifts received through the Public Relations Department were separately controlled; subscriptions made directly to the .Administration were in other files; and many gifts of equipment or "in kind" to various departments were not recorded except in leter files or other imper­manent listings within the departments. Consequently, any approach to a prospect to build interest or financial support lacked those basic elements to definitely compliment him on whatever he might have done here­tofore for the University. The new structure 
CITY CHAIRMEN ABE 
ALREADY IN ACTION 

With the announcement that B. J. Voll and E. M. Morris will head the Foundation Committee in South Bend; with Frank Walker as City Chairman in New York and Joseph M. Byrne in Newark; with Walter Stuhldreher organizing his committee functions in Indianapolis; with the activity of the Fort Wayne Foundation Committes under Thomas McKieman a matter of rec­ord and accomplishment already; with Frank Howland heading the Foundation program in Memphis; with C. W, Bader heading the program in Gary; and with the Executive Committee Governors pledged to set up Foundation Committees in the immediate future, under City Chair­man appointed by Father Cavanaugh, September will find Chicago, New York, Detroit, Cleveland, Dallas, Milwaukee, St. louis, Portland, and most of the nation's major cities organized for the long-rang'.; survey and the permanent approach to the Foundation's program. 
of the UNIVERSITY' OF NOTRE D.\ME 
FOUNDATION is developing central files 
of information to eliminate these inade­
quacies. 
It is a clearing house through which the 

right hand will know constantly what the 
left hand is doing in all matters of public 
relations where the immediate or remote 
objective is the securing of financial support. 
Local Clubs Vital Agents 
In the general plan of operation the fine 

values of loyalty already existing in local 
groups of alumni throughout the country 
will be capitalized. While direction will 
come from a central source, the basic activity 
of the FOUNDATION will be on a local 
level. Consequently, it is planned that there 
be a University of Notre Dame Foundation 
Committee established as soon as possible in 
each of the important areas of alumni con­centration with the local Club president as ex o£Scio member during his term of office, and eventually that all strategic cities of the country will have these Local Committees to advance public relations at this commun­ity level. It is assumed that each Committee will be directed by a chairman selected for his interest, his abilities and his willingness to devote reasonable time to this appealing proposition. His selection will be made by the President of the University with the approval of the State Governor and after consultation with leadership and membership of the local Notre Dame Club. 
It is expected that the chairman of the Local Committee for the FOUNDATION will surround himself with five or more able men and that this total committee then will have specific functions. Many of these func­tions will be in conjunction with the activi­ties of the local Notre Dame Club and others will be beyond those ordinary activi-^} ties. 
Local Committees Outlined 

It is believed that the general program 
of the Local Committee will; 
(1)
 plan for greater participation and higher averages of giving by Alumni to effect an increasing annual sus taining contribution to the FOUN­DATION; 

(2)
 build up a prospect list of individuals and corporations outside alumni circles (Catholic and non-CathpIic) and assist in their education to an interest in Notre Dame and to a basis of annual support; 

(3)
 make careful analysis of both the alumni and non-alumni lists with a view to determining certain special prospects for particular cultivation; ^^ 

(4)
 carry put this special cultivation by bringing the prospects to the campus or the campus to the prospects and by judicious continuous dissemina­tion of proper and individualized information; 

(5)
 secure eventually those gifts of major amount which will bring to Notre Dame the resources to make it com­parable with the other great educa­tional institutions of the country in financial backing. 


Basic Policies 

Of course this is a long-range program. 
The techniques of maintaining interest in a 
project lacking the intensification of the 
usual single objective will be worke'd out by 
the FOUNDATION staff and through the 
suggestions of the local committees. Un­
doubtedly there will be peak periods of in­
terest and of activity such as tax-deduction j A 
thinking at the year-end; Alumni giving in "~ 
the early months; tie-in with and encourage­
ment of Notre Dame Club activities in 
Volume 25, No. 4, August, 1947 

season; announcement of unusual research achievements whenever they may occur; and other events of special moment on the cam­pus or in the general field of higher educa­tion and the specific field of Catholic educa­tion. 
In the total outline of the FOUNDA­TION activities there will be a listing of certain specific needs at the University so that attention may be directed to these needs. There will be no reason why in­dividual and specific interest cannot be catered to even to the establishment of cer­tain Trusts within the FOUNDATION it­self. 
No Sacrifice of Progress 

It obviously is impossible to comprehend ever)' detail of operation and every matter of policy at this stage of planning. For those of us who have accepted responsibilit>', there must be a certain faith that the total pro­gram has great merit and that its integration with all things that now are good upon the campus will eventuate. We must believe that there will be a strengthening of every constructive activity and department related to this total picture and that there will be no sacrifices of component interest which are vital to the University. We must look to the achievement of certain objectives within a relatively short time but always must keep our eyes trained to the Notre Dame of the future and to the building of an interest and a loyalty which transcend athletics or academics or material or physical features and rise to the heights of real spirit­ual dominance. 
The total significance of this whole propo­sition is so challenging as to be almost over­whelming. Its effectuation will depend largely upon a spiritual determination that this whole movement is to be a purposeful and beneficial criisade for Notre Dame. 
Professional Guidance 

In a desire to inaugurate this program under the very best auspices and under the most favorable conditions, your leadership 
FALL MEETING CALENDAH 

September 18 — Indiana Club Presidents and City Chairmen of Foundation Com­mittees in Indiana. 
September 19-20—First Meeting Staff Or­ganization Committee, NJ). Foundation. 
September 26-27—Board of Directors of the Alumni Association. 
October 17-18 — Organization Committee meeting. Board o{ Governors oi the University of Notre Dame Foundation. 
October 24-25—Finance Committee meet­ing. Board of Governors oi the Univer­sity of Notre Dame Foundation, 
November 21-22—Second Annual Council of Presidents of Local Altmmi Clubs. 
has enlisted the American City Bureau in a campus counseling association with the movement in these early stages. You have evidence of their interest and understanding 
of our situation in that they have collabo­
rated in presenting this outline to you. 
The Bureau is favorably known to many of us through its many satisfactory associa­tions in related activitiet. As you have learned, it has had wide experience in all ' fields and in all types of fund-raising work. ' It presently is a£SIiated with more than a dozen colleges and universities in their public relations programs. 
It was the judgment of the University and of my associates who have given liberally of time and counsel that the American City Bureau be retained. Our objective must be the acquisition, development and training of a competent staff to work efficiently in cam­pus headquarters and understandingly in the field to enhance the prestige of the Univer­sity. 
We suggest that this investment in in­dividual and cumulative experience is one which will be an insurance against mistakes which we ourselves might make in our zeal and will be the foundation for orderly pro­gress over a long period of years in one of the most important projects ever to confront our University. The Bureau will be a cam­pus counselling guide, and will not engage ­in field work in the Cities. 
Specific and Immediate Operations 
It is indicated that those of us charged with the responsibility of executive direction within the Board of State Governors pro­ceed to the opportunity of establishing the 
.^^^r 

-f 
Attending the meeting oi the Executive Committee oi the Notre Dame Foundotion en July 25-2S were sitting. left to right. E. A. Berkery. John E. Moore, James E. Annstrong, Bev. John I. Cavanaugh. CS. C Hony G. Hogaa. E. M. Monisi John E. Coasidy w^ Hugh M. OUeilL Standing: Bobert L. Hamilton. Clarence "Pat" Mcmion. Joseph B. McGIynn. WilHam B. Dooley. BOT. Bobert H. Sweeney. C.S.C John F. Saunders, James P. Swift, John E. Mdntyre, John V, Knkal. Baymond A. Gnger. VnUiam C Sehmitt I. Ar­thur Haley and James E. McCmthy. Resent ior Uie meeting but absent irom the picture: Golvia Hndaon. 
The Nofre Dame Almnnus 

Local Committees of THE UNI\^RSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION. 
The selection of a chairman for the Local Committee of THE -UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION in New York or Chicago or any other cit>' or town must be a studied and a deliberate one. This selection will be a major task and must be approached with the same thoughtful zeal as has characterized our evcrj- action to this time. The chairman must carrj-a deep con­\nction into his work of organization. 
We hope that many of the chairmen may be selected and their Committees recruited within the next few weeks and certainly not later than the early months of the fall. By the time that these Committees ha%-e been built there should be information at hand to direct their activities in addition to that material already assembled. 
At the moment, there is being compiled an Alumni Directory which will sen-e effect­ively as a work sheet. It is arranged geo­graphically and alphabetically by cities and towns; further, it will reflect pertinent points to make it a valuable resource for the Com­mittee. It should be available for distribu­tion not later than early September. In addition to information in a preliminary manual there will be other facts as to pre­vious sources of giving and, of course, local Notre Dame Clubs will have information at hand and activities in the making. The Clubs already have been alerted to the new program. Their related activities will be co­ordinated in policy and planning with the FOUNTJATION Committee in a manner determined by each Club through its Presi­dent as a Committee member. 
It is the sincere desire of your chairman that the program may be properly inaugu­rated by the fall months when visitors crowd the campus and when national interest pre­vails in the alTairs of Notre Dame. 
We are fully conscious that interest in this total project can be maintained only through campus staff and proper field direction. To achieve this purpose, I am willing—and others similarly motivated stand ready,—to give the cause the necessary time and atten­tion to advance its objectives. Of course we have within the Administration of the Uni­versity and within our various departments the capable men willing and able to direct field activities and ready to cooperate in effectuating a headquarters staff to continue this broadened and permanent ^i-ork. 
Summary The visions of service of the UNI\'ER­SITY OF NOTRE DAME to the cause of Christian leadership have been given to us by the Administration of the University of Our Lady and the challenge to make that vision a -reality has found acceptance under the leadership of the Alumni Association. We believe that objectives best can be 
FOUNDATION METHODS UNIQUE; v OBIECTIVES SHARED V/IOELY 

The nation-wide organization of local Foundation Committees, of volunteer alumni and friends, to effect a permanenL long-range program of both annual and general support of the Unirersity of Notre Dame, and to bring Notre Dame into ever/ community in the country more closely and familiarly with its many-faceted con­tributions to America, is a usw and unique venture. 
Notre Dame's financial needs however, and the program from the approach o. meeting them, is generally shared. 
Noire Dame's costs have risen 49% since 1341. The national educational ris-­in similar costs is reported at 52%. 
As a result, a survey indicates that 76% of our private and denominational cal­leges are either planning or conducting financial campaigns, for a total of almost $1,500,000,000. Many public institutions are similarly planning or engaged. 
Most of the . campaigning is stres3i2g the base of annual giving, which the Foundation program projects. It has been the history of alumni funds that vride­spread campaigning among college alumni is not competitive in-a handicap­ping sense, but that it is stimulating to general "esponse. 
Similarly, it is important to know that Notre Dame is not only not out of slep with current educational pograms, but is moving vreU ahead of them in its planning. 
achieved through the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION. 
It is our conviction that the total of all public relations in the University can be channeled to great degree through this one new structure and that the sum total of that unified appeal of the FOUNDATION will be greater and more persuasive than the separate appeals of its prior component parts. 
We are convinced that the direction of the FOUNDATION must be at the Univer­sit>- but that its activities must be on a local level through Local Committees to be appointed by the President of the University and to work in harmony with local Notre Dame Clubs and other friendly factors. 
It is our judgment that professional coun­sel is a very sound and a very necessary investment in this period of planning and organization and we have retained such counsel. 
It is our hope that the alumni and the Alumni Clubs will be so imbued with the spirit of this movement as to be inspired to immediate action in the development of local FOUNDATION committees within their re­snective communities. . 
MEDIAEVAL SCHOLARSHIPS 

Three scholarships for advanced study and ^ research in the Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame during the 1947­48 scholastic year, have been announced by the Very Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, Director of the Institute. 
The scholarships have been awarded to: Bernard Gendreau of Samia, Ontario, Can­ada; Sylvester Theisen of Cold Springs, Minn.; and Patrick Mclnnis of St. Peter's Bay, Prince Edward Island, Canada. 
These scholarships will be awarded only to students who have received the equivalent of a Bachelor of Arts degree and who have had adequate university training in Latin, English, French or German, Philosophy and History. 
Mr. Gendreau is a graduate of College Bourget, Rigand, Quebec, Canada, and has %l done three years of graduate work at the University of Montreal. Mr. Theisen is a graduate of St. John's University, Collcg'e­ville, Minn., while Mr. Mclnnis was gradu­ated from S L Dustan's College, Charlotte­town, P.E.I., Canada. 

IN MEMORIAM: TWO GIFTS 

The University has received a check in the amount of $969.76 establishing the Jo­seph W. Whelan, '27, Student Loan Mem­orial. Fund. The late Major Whelan, long a resident of Grantwood, N. J., died in May, 1945, at Mercy Hospital, Denver, Colo., after a long illness. He was 39. 
Major Whelan became ill while serving wth the Army in North Africa and was returned to this country about a year prior ^^ to his death. Commissioned a captain in W^' the Judge Advocate General's Department, he entered service in September, 1942. 
Shortly after initiation of the Whelan Memorial Fund, the University received a gift of $2,000 from the Frank R. Huisking Foundations, Inc., in memory of Frank, '37, from Huntington, L. I., N. Y. This gift is to be applied to the Economic Research 
Fund. 
A.C.S. LUNCHEON 

Frank J. Sowa of the Sowa Chemical Co., New York, has completed arrange­ments with the American Chemical So­ciety for a Notre Dame group luncheon to Be held on Wednesday, Sept. 10, 1947, during the A.C.S. convention in New York City. 
Frank asks that the Notre Dame men attending the get-together pick; up their tickeb'.when they register. 
Volume 25, No. 4, August, 1947 

Local Clubs and the New Foundation 
By ROBERT T. HELLRUNG. "30 Vice-President of the Alumni Association 
The development of the Notre Dame Just as the Foundation will serve as a Foundation is proving a stimulus to a closer means to implement the Club programs 
relationship between the local Alumni Clubs, faster than any miplementation previously the University and the entire Alumni As­outlined, so the State Oovemor is an expe­sociation. diter, and the City Committee an accelera­
tor, of the general Club program. 
Many Clubs have already set the stage for 

the establishment of the Foundation's No­The first obvious need of the Foundation tre Dame Committee in the Club city. is to go beyond the Clubs, into the alumni 
The Council of Local Alumni Clubs held in non-Club areas, and then beyond the in November, 1946, set up a rich pattern alumni in all areas to non-alumni who arc for Club programs. This was a meeting of essential to the numbers and total amount local Club Presidents from all over the implicit in the Foundation's objectives. 
9 country. It encompassed the spiritual, the 
In the enlistment of the type of non­intellectual, the cultural, the social, the fra­
alumnus who will be interested in Notre ternal, and the financial. 
Dame and in Notre Dame's program, the 
One of the Committees approved for all Local Club has already pioneered in enough Club organizations was the Committee on places to prove the values. It is from this Publicity and Public Relations. local circle of friends that there comes the 
increase of enrollment of sons whose fathers This Committee, already established in are friends of Notre Dame. Among these some of the Clubs, has become the first . men, many of them leaders in business and Committee operating under tlfe.JJew Foim-' industry, the Club Placement Committee finds ready employers of Notre Dame men. 
dation. -.J&o^-"" ^^^. -; 

The Foundation itself is an outgrowth in part of the Local Club Council. The pro­They are the men whose names are usual­posed services from the University to the ly prominent in the Club Scholarship activ­Clubs emphasized the fact that Notre Dame ities. is increasingly pressed to render to alumni 
The Foundation will increase the circle and students the proper services that would 
of friends of Notre Dame. It will stimulate not only train responsible leadership on the 
alumni participation in the development of campus, but follow its establishment among 
the University. As the University reflects alumni and refresh them wt h continuous 
from these combined groups the realization contact. 
of its opportunities and the maintaining ^ For example, the detachment of priests 
of its leadership, the local Clubs and all the ^^ from campus duties, to serve as visitors to 
members of the Alumni will enjoy a deep the Clubs, to prepare reading lists, to pre­
satisfaction and strongly reflected prestige. side at Club Retreats, Communion Break­The new Foundation program has brought 
fasts, etc., calls for more facilities, more an imminent promise of the University's 
.•''" manpower on the campus. ability to give the Clubs richer contacts that The return of alumni groups, class groups, will stimulate local Club programs. and club groups for visits to the campus 
And in turn there is no channel more for retreats, as well as business or profes­readily adapted to the success of the Foun­sional symposia, will necessitate such im­dation's program than the existing Clubs, provements as the proposed Union Building, particularly the programs of public relations increased dining facilities and the Memorial already in effect in some of the Clubs. 

Chapel. 
The meeting of the Board of Directors of Constant contact and stimulus of publi­the Alumni Association in September, and cations from the campus embodying reli­the meeting of the Second Annual Council gious, intellectual and cultural material for of Local Alumni Clubs (the Club Presi­alumni relies upon improved facilities for dents) in November, will clarify even more research, writing, printing, mailing, and poll­the advantages that lie in the integration of ing—all activities that are demanding of the Clubs and the Foundation. 

plant and personnel. 

Such recommendations for the Clubs as The Public Relations expansion phase of 
increased moving pictures of the various the Foundation gives the Alumni Associa­^ phases of campus life, faculty speakers and tion and the Local Clubs a clear-cut pro­W • preparatory school visitations, make demands gram of pursuing the broad objectives in 
for increased release of manpower at the the spiritual, intellectual, cultural and fra­University and increased budget provision ternal fields as well as a real purpose for for these services. coordinating all activities. 
PROFBSORS TO BIKINI 

Two chemistry professors from Notre Dame, Dr. William H. Hamill, '30, and Dr. Russell R. Williams, Jr., were appointed special consultants to the United States Navy in atomic research studies made this summer at Bikini atoll, site of the 1946 atomic bomb tests. 
They were included in a small group of scientists who conducted a survey of condi­tions at Bikini for the Office of Naval Re­search, Washington, D. C. The scientific survey lasted six weeks, and was intended to determine conditions on the atoll one year after the bomb experiments. 
Both Dr. Hamill and Dr. Williams were concerned in their investigations with the radio-chemical effects on the atmosphere, particularly radioactivity. 
Dr. Hamill is a native of Oswego, N. Y., and received his Bachelor of Science degree from Notre Dame in 1930, and his M.A. in 1931. He received his doctor's degree from Columbia University in 1936. He formerly taught at Fordham University in New York City, and has been a member of the faculty at Notre Dame since 1938. 
Bom in Orehard Park, N. Y., Dr. Wil­liams was awarded, his Bachelor of Arts de­gree by the University "of Buffalo, Buffalo, 
N. Y., in ^941, and. his doctorate by Stan­ford University, P4o Alto, Calif., ia 1944. He was associated, with the atomic bomb project at Oak Ridge, Tenn., for two years, then joined the faculty at Notre Dame -in August, 1946. 
Two other Notre Dame scientists. Dr. Bernard Waldman, professor of Physics, and Dr. Milton Burton, professor of Chemistry, have acted as special United States observers in previous atomic bomb tests in the Pacific area. Dr. Waldman was one of four scientists who witnessed the bombing of Hiroshima in 1945, while Dr. Burton participated in the Bikini experiments last year.. 
HEARST FELLOWSHIPS 

Names of recipients of the Hearst Gradu­ate Fellowships in American History for the academic year 1947-48 were announced by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School. These fellowships were founded in 1946 by the Hearst Foundation with a grant of $100,000 and are awarded to graduate students for work in American History. 
Students receiving the awards are: Earl 
A. Breault, St. Paul, Minn., B.A. College of St. Thomas, 1947, working for the M.A. degree; Richard P. Noonan, Saratoga Springs, N. Y., B.S. in History, College of the Holy Cross, Worcester, Mass.,' wodting for a Ph. D.; Charles R. Poinsatte, Fort Wayne, Ind., Bj\. Notre Dame, 1947, work­ing for an M.A.; Robert C. Reindcrs, Apple­ton, Wis., B.A. Notre Dame, 1947, working for an M.A. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

II. Hoard of Governors: Organization Cotnmittee* 
(Harry G. Hogan, Chairman) 

FHANE B. BLOEMER E. P. CABVILLE DB. JOHN M. CULLIGAN MAZIB4E GAUTHIEB L.aHENNESSY Louisville, Ey. Reno, Nev. SL Paul, Minn. Manchester, N. H. Viclcsburg, Miss. 
JOHN JOYCE EMMETT G. LENIHAN WILLIAM P. MAHONEY GEBALD J. McGINLEY ANSELM D. MILlEa Tucapau, S. C. SeaiUe, Wash. Phoenix, Ariz. Ogallolo, Nebr. Boanoke, Va. 
LEOMULUN WILLIAM NEF? JOHN U. BILEY JOHN F. BOBINSON MATTHEW BOTHEBT MICHAEL WIEDL Washington, D. C. Mandan, N. D. PorUand, Me. Hartiord. Conn. Camden. Ark. Atlanta. Ga. 
* These are the members of the Organization Committee of the University of Notre Dame Foundation. This committee will meet at Notre Dame the weekend of the Nebraska game. Oct. 17-18. (The ALUMNUS regrets that it was unable to secure in time for publication a picture of Robert Dick, Denver, Colo., a member of this committee.) 
Volume 25, No. 4, August, 1947 


Mil. Hoard of Governors: Finance Cotntnittee* 
(Harry G. Hogan, Chairman) 

E. BRADLEY BAILEY AHTHUH H. CARMODY RAYMOND FAHEHTY THOMAS HEABN ARTHUR P. HUDSON Baltimore, Md. Shreveport, La, Birmingham, Ala. Los Angcle% Cdl. Charleston. W. Va 
T. C. KASPEH THOMAS G. KASSIS EDWARD I. KOONTZ EDWARD 3 . McCLALLEN JOHN F. McKIERNAN Aberdeen, S. D. Cheyenne, Wyo. AsheTiUc, N. C. Rutland, Vu Roriileiice. B. L 
HARRY MILLER lOSEPH A. MORAN PHILIP I. PURCELL DANIEL I. WELCHONS HENRY C. WURZER Wlmington, Del. Tulsa, Okla. Salt Lake City, Utah Hutchinson. Kana. Davenport la. 
* These are the members of the Finance Committee of the University of Notre Dame Foundation. This committee will meet at Notre Dame the weekend of the Iowa game, Oct. 24-25. (The ALUMNUS regrets that it was unable to secure in time for publication pictures of A. R. Hebenstreil, Albuquerque, N. M., and Dr. Richard C. Monahan, Butte, Mont., members of this committee.) 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 

Foundation Advocates Home Meeting 
Experiences in Fort Wayne and Elsewhere Indi­cate Advantases in Family Spirit of Uoire Dame Alumni and Friends as Fostered in Homes 
{Ed. Note: One of the early trends in the Foundation is the family spirit that prevails between Notre Dame, its alumni, and its friends. This is most in evidence in the association of friends in home environment. The letter from Father Cavanaugh to Harry Hogan which follows is so much more than just a note of thanks thai we reprint it as part of a guide to procedure for Governor.^ and City Chairman. 
As a matter of fact, a City Committeeman has already passed along the observation that when he broached the subject of giving to Notre Dame to a good prospect in his office, he was met with the reserve and the inherent refusal that is common to men whose desks are crossed daily by various appeals of varying merit. "The next time," he added in his report, "I'll talk to him in my home or in his." 
In almost every community there arc alumni and friends who could foster the con­tacts of the Foundation program substanti­ally by the donation of the facilities of their homes, their yards, their farms, their Clubs. This is an important point for all involved to keep in mind.) 
Office of the President 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
July 3, 1947 
Mr. Harry G. Hogan 
Office of the President 
Dime Trust and Savings Bank 
Fort Wayne 2, Indiana 
DEAR HARRY: The meeting on Monday evening in your home was to me both revealing and pleasant. 
You and I have discussed the new pro­gram in much detail in recent months, and I have been, impressed from the outset by your theories, as you know. I felt that the University had much to gain, and that our alumni enthusiasm under your leadership would respond generously to the effort. 
But the meeting in your home with the Fort Wayne Qity Committee proved beyond doubt that the program can be readily trans­lated into the minds of the men in whose hands the plan will essentially rest. 
Mr. BerghofTs contribution to the field of thinking along the lines of bequests was as sound and refreshing as was his friend­ship for Notre Dame. Mr. Nill reflected the same generous interest, both of them prov­ing your point that Notre Dame's friends are many outside our immediate alumni. 

The ready adaptation of Tom McKieman and Donnelly McDonald, both alumni of long-standing loyalty and activity, was just as encouraging although not unexpected. 
I feel that Fort Wayne, in spite of your position and abilit>-, is not a unique city in the field %vc are entering. South Bend, for example, with leadership like that of Mr. Voll and Mr. Morris (who were vcrj' much impressed by the Fort Wayne picture) will hold its place as the first and most liberal community friend of Notre Dame. 
One thing which impressed me and which I hope will be frequent as we make contacts across the countr)- was the atmosphere pro­vided by your home. I felt that it mellowed the contacts of the \'arious men present. It emphasized the fellowship of Notre Dame. .'Vnd it took away from the project any of. the commercial element of drive or campaign meeting that too often prevails in hotel or auditorium en\'ironmcnts. We certainly don't want to impose on alumni or their wives, but wherever convenient I know that the Governors and the Citj; Chairmen will find the small group meeting greatly en­hanced by the home background. 
Let mc thank you again for the stimulat­ing "Exhibit A" in the possibilities of the extension of our Public Relations work through the .'\iumni .Association and its com­munity Committees. 
Yours sincerely, . 
(Rev.) JoH.v J. CAVA.N-AUGH, C.S.C. 
REILLY FELLOWSHIPS 

Names of recipients of the Peter C. Rciily Fellowships in Chemistr>' and Chemical Engineering for the coming academic year ^ were announced by Rev. Philip S. Moore, ^ ^ C.S.C, Dean of the Graduate School. These fellowships were founded in 1945 by Peter C. Reilly, of Indianapoh"s, with part of the in­come from a $1,000,000 benefaction. Tlicy are open to students in chemistr>- and can-> a stipend of $1,000 for the academic year. . The fellowships will go this- year to: David S. Ballantine, Bronx, N. Y., B.S. St. Francis College, Brooklyn, N. Y., 1943, working for a Ph. D. in Chemistry; Richard 
D. Gilbert, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, 
B. Sc, University of Manitoba, 1942, M.Sc. in Chemistr>', ibid., 1944, working for a Ph. D. in Physical Chemistry; .-Mbert Schrage, Brooklyn, N. Y., B.A. Brooklyn College, working for an M.S. in Chemistr>'; Robert H. Schulcr, Buffalo, N. Y., B.S. Can­isius College, 1946, working for an M.S. in Chemistry. 
A meeting in the Fort Wayne home of Hany G. Hogan was attended by (seated, left to right) B. J. VoU. E. M. Morris, Father Johp Caronaugh. Mr. Hogan and by (standing) Father Bobert H. Sweeney ond J. E. Armstrong. 
Volume 25, No. 4, August, 1947 

3 n Jljgemori' of ipatljer i|«gft <!^*l^onneU 
When Father Hugh O'Donnell died on June 12, letters and The editors of the ALUMNUS present here, in memory of telegrams by the hundred came to the University from all parts of Father O'Donnell some of these tributes, as well as a special tribute 
the countr)'. Expressing sympathy, these messages also indicate 
by Father John Cavanaugh. There is no attempt at arrangement: vividly the high esteem and warm affection in which the war­
the messages were copied, and are printed, in the order in which they were gathered together in a scrapbook which was forwarded 
time president of Notre Dame was held. They accord due to Father O'Donnell's family. They will give to Notre Dame 
recognition to the accomplishments of a man who gave practically 
all his adult days to the scr\-icc of Notre Dame. 
"(Father O'Donnell)" .. . A pious priest, an eloquent orator, a distinguished administrator, and a great moral force have been taken from us, but his influence for good 5ur\-ives in the host of men whose minds and' hearts he touched with his fire." 
"CHICAGO TRIBUNE," Ccditorial) 
"The university marches ahead on a blue print of progress in which Father O'Donnell's handiwork is 

Father O'Donnell, the executive, at his desk 
men a new realization of the Notre Dame spirit in action. 
unmistakable. He becomes a part of a tradition in which many voices may be recalled, none of them more distinct than his." 
FT. WAYNE NEWS-SENTINEL, "(editorial) 
".. . I offer Notre Dame my condolences in the death of one of its great Presidents, Father Hugh O'Donnell. I know that you will be kind enough to convey an expression of my sorrow to the 

relatives of Father O'Donnell and to say that I shall offer Alass for the repose of his Kreat soul." FR.\NGIS CARDINAL SPELLMAN 
"The spirit of sadness which must envelop Our Lady's University today, finds its echo on our own campus where good Father O'Donnell had so many friends and admirers. Yet, if this is a time of sorrow, it is also a time of triumph, for one who ­bore a hea\-y cross so nobly and so uncomplainingly must certainly descr^-e ibc victor's crown." 
SISTER MARY GERxVLD, Mother General, 
Sisters of St. Dominic, Adrian, Mich. 

'*\Vc are grieved in the passing of Father Hugh O'Donnell and desire to add our deep sympathy and love for his family and associates at Notre Dame with assurance that Father Hugh's life and devotion to his ideals will alwaj-s be for us an inspiration." 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN LOUISUNIA (ARTHUR R. CARMODY) 

"Please accept my deepest sympathy in the loss of our beloved Father Hugh. I would also like to express my sympathy of the class of 1923. I am sure the members individually will offer their pray­ers and masses for him. He certainly will go to his reward. I'm sorry I will not be able to attend the funeral." JOHN P. HURLEY 
Class Secretary 

"The Notre Dame Club of Wabash. Valley joins the University in expressing our bereavement upon the death of Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell." 
D. EMMETT FERGUSON, President KENNETH F. LAWS, M.D., Secretary 

"Wire received we were very sorry to learn of Father O'Donnell's death. Notre Dame and ^.the Congregation of Holy Cross have lost a most honored member of their community.** 
C. ROY McCANNA 

"We are deeply grieved to learn of the death of Father 0*DonneIl, a great priest, a leading educator, a loyal friend of Knights of Columbus and an out* standing American. May God receive his soul into paradise is the ferxent prayer of 700,000 members of our order who have admired his sterling quali­ties. Supreme Council will be represented at the funeral." JOHN E. SWIFT, 
Supreme Knight. 

"On behalf of the entire state of Indiana, I wish to express deep and profound regrets at the un­timely loss of one of the outstanding educators and citizens of this state. His record as a leader at Notre Dame is parallelled only by the outstanding record of the institution which he guided during the trying years of this last world conflict. Notre Dame the Holy Cross Congregation and we of the state of Indiana all feel the passing of Father Hugh O'Donnell \viih great sorrow." / 
RALPH F. GATES, 
Governor of Indiana 

"To you and Notre Dame my deepest s>-mpathy. Now stri\-ing for accommodations to attend funeral Monday. Affectionate regards." ' • ­
BISHOP GEORGE^ L. LEECH 

"Deeply grieved to hear of Father O'Donnell's death, ^.^otre Dame has lost a fine mind and great figure in progress. We of the Chicago Club mourn with, the .University the loss of a truly good and 
• 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
cherished friend. A special committee vnW represent the Chicago alumni at the funeral. THOMAS S. McaABE, Prendmt 
'*For the loss of Father O'Donnell my sinccrest sympathy to yourself and the Umversitj- and the Congregation of Holy Cross. I will attend the funeral as a representative of the Indiana members of the delegation to the United States Congress. Governor Gates will accompany me. 
HONfER E. CAPEHART, 
U. S. Senator 
*'A great figure in Notre Dame history has left us. His work as president of tlic University during the trying war years will be a lasting memorial to him."' BYRON V. KANALEY 
"Have learned the death of Father O'Donnell. Sincere regret of president and faculty of St. Mao''^ College." BROTHER AUSTIN, President 
*'My deepest sympathy to you and all the priests of Holy Cross in the loss of our beloved Father O'Donnell. I have been designated by Supreme Knight Suift to. represent the Supreme Council Knights of Columbus at the funeral and will be present in that capacity as well as on my own behalf." TUfOTHV P. GAL\TN 
*'Education and mankind have sufTercd irreparable losses in the death of Father O'Donnell. I extend the sympathy of Indiana University, its trustees and faculties." H. B. WELLS, President 
'*Wish to extend our deepest and sincerest s>*m­pathy in Father O'Donncll's loss. Will be greatly felt by all who knew him." 
Denver Club of Notre Dame (P.\UL SANTO) 
*'We join with every* Notre Dame man our sincere heartfelt sympathy the passing of a great and be­loved cliaracter. Father O'Donnell. Our prayers will be said for the repose of his soul and the success of his teacliings to live on wherever his men mav be." 
GEORGE MELINKOVICH, President, 
N. D. Club of N. J. 
**TTie priests of our diocese informed of Father Hugh's death at .end of- retreat. All join me in extending sincerest sympathy to you and your con­gregation. I "^vill offer ^lass for his soul and attend the funeraL" BISHOP ALBERS (Lansing) 
**Accept my profound sympathy in the death of our most beloved Father Hugh O'Donnell. His life was a great blessing to our country and to the Church and he will "be well remembered by the be­

^•"^^^^S^^^SiS^i^ 
Father O'Donnell welcomes Rear Admiral John Downes to Notre Dame 
(oved sons of Notre Dame I regret that due to the fjergy retreat it will be impossible for me to assist i t the requiem. I send the assurance of my pray­ers and a Holy Mass for the repose of the soul of Father Hugh.*' . 
BISHOP READY CCoIumbus, O.) 

'"The students, faculty and alumni of Bradley Unii-ersity extend their deep sympathy to you and Notre Dame University on the death of the Rev. 
J. Hugh O'Donnell. We mourn with you and with the rest of the country the loss of a great educational und religious leader." 
DA\aD B. OWEN, President 

'*Notre Dame club of Phocnbc, Ariz., wishes to H ^ join with the numerous other clubs throughout the world in an expression of sympathy for the family of Father O'Donnell and in acknowledgment of the magnificent work which he has accomplished in his lifetime. His name is revered among the legions of Noire Dame men and we sympathize with the Congregation o( Holy Cross in the loss of one of its most able members. Wc join with you and your colleagues and the students of Notre Dame in mourning the loss of^ a distinguished man." 
ROBERT D. KENDALL, Secretary 

"Just learned with great sorrow of death of good Father Hugh O'Donnell for whose happy repose I shall offer ^lass. Please convey expression of my sympathy to the Fathers of Notre Dame University, to religious of your province and to the members of his family." 
ARCHBISHOP CICOGNANI, Apostolic Delegate 
"The president and faculty of the college of St. Thomas extends sincere sympathy on the death of Father O'Donnell. TIic president will say Mass on Monday for him in presence of Twin City Notre Dame alumni." 
(REV.) VINCENT J. FLYNN, President 

"Sympathy and prayers of the Sisters of St- Joseph of Nazareth to a great community in its great loss." ^5) 
AIOTHER M. COLETTE, (Kalamazoo, Jfjch.) *^^ 
"Deeply grieved to hear of the death of Father Hugh O'Donnell and regret cannot attend funeral 
owing to priest's retreat. The University has lost 
Samuel Cardinal Stritch of Chicago ond Father O'Donnell one of its leading figures who made an enviable 
Volume 25, No. 4, August, 1947 

record as president during difl^cult times. I shall say Mass for him Monday morning." ARCHBISHOP JOSEPH E. RITTER (St. Louis) 
*'In heartfelt s>*mpatby I join you, the members of the University faculty and the community, the alumni and friends of Notre Dame in mourning the loss of a great hearted priest, an inspiring educaor and a devoted friend. I said Mass for him this morning. I deeply regret that circumstances make it impossible for nic to attend the funeral of Father Hugh." EDWARD CARDINAL MOONEY 
**The members of the University of Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee wish to express to you, the con­gregation and the University our sorrow at the pass­ing from this life • of our friend and counsellor. Father Hugh O'Donnell. He will be remembered in the Mass the Club's Chaplain will celebrate and in the prayers of all of us." 
THOMAS E. DIXON, President 

"We have lost a great, good priest whose pricst­liness was resplendent in all his activities. Shall remember him with Holy Mass. Very sorry but I shall not be able to be at the funeral." 
SAMUEL aVRDlNAL STRITCH 

"My sincere sympathy to the entire community. Shall offer the Holy Sacrifice for Father Hugh to­morrow." BISHOP MURPHY (Saginaw) 
Father O'Donnell with Lay Trustees I. A-O'Shoughnessy (left) and George W. Stroke 
"Grieved to hear of the death of my good friend Father Hugh O'Donnell. The Church has lost a fine priest and educator. The outstand­joins with the Congregation of Holy Cross in voicing 
 countrj' an "Please accept my heartfelt s>Tnpathy on the ing loyal citizen. Those who knew him a loj-al its sentiments of great loss. I regret that because 
occasion of the death of Father Hugh O'Donnell. Father O'Donnell bequeaths to Notre Dame the 
friend. The world is a betcr place because Father of another funeral at the same time I shall not be 
precious memory of a cultured gentleman and able 
Hugh O'Donnell lived in it. God have merc>- on his able to attend the solemn rites for Father O'Don­
administrator who was alwa>*s a zealous priest. As
soul. Will say Mass for him Monday." nell.. The Vicar General and the Chancellor of BISHOP TOOLEN (Mobile, .\la.) Grand Rapids will represent the diocese. I shall 
the place of his origin the diocese of Grand Rapids offer the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass for his eternal repose." FRANCIS J. HA.AS, BISHOP OF GRAND RAPIDS 
"On behalf of Catholic University I extend sincere sympathy to University of Notre Dame and Holy Cross Fathers on loss of Father Hugh O'Donnell, and assurance of praj^rs that he will be richly rewarded for his great and untiring service to Catholic, education.'* 
MSGR. PATRICK J. McCORMICK, Rector, 
"The Sisters of Mundclein College extend,deep sympathy in the loss of your beloved Father O'Don­nell and offer prayers for the repose of his soul." 
SISTER ilARY JOSEPHINE (Chicago) 

"Great sorrow over sad news of Father O'Etonnell's death. Am confident he has gone to claim a well earned rew-ard for labors well done. He will be remembered in my prayers." . 
JOHN P. MURPHY 

"News about my beloved friend. Father O'Don­nell, truly saddens me but out of it comes profound belief that he is now chjo>-ing his just reward. Please convey to his family my condolence." 
GEORGE W. STRAKE 

"I am profoundly grieved by the passing^..of Father O'Donnell. It was known of course lie was. to be taken from us but nevertheless I was hoping the unexpected would happen and that he would be spared us. His display of faith and resignation to his fate .. . is a demonstration of faith that will live many many years on the Notre Dame campus." P. C. REILLY 
"Shocked and grieved I join in extending my heartfelt sympathy to you and all the confreres of Notre Dame's beloved apostle. Father O'Donnell. . . . God rest his sterling soul in his everlasting arms." JOSEPH SCOTT 
''On behalf of the national officers and directors of the Outdoor Advertising Association of America, Inc., and personally I wish to convey to you and your associates our heartfelt 5>-mpathy in the loss of the Reverend J. Hugh O'Donnell, past president of-the University who was greatly admired by all of us . and to whom we owed a deep measure of appreda­tion and gratitude for his encouragement and assist* ance in establishing our foundation at Notre Dame." 
H. E. FISK, Kxec. Vice-President 

"Sad as I am I can only thank GbH that Father ' Father O'Donnell soys goodbye to Notre Dome men leaving lor war service O'Donnell has been spared further'physical suffer­
The tragic recording o! Notre Dame's ProL Francis Honley and Rev. 
ing. Spiritually I am sure that he w2s ready. Kfay God bless him." GEORGE E. SOKOLSKY 
"To the community and family of Father O'Don­ndl sinccrcst condolences." ALBERT F. ZAHM. 
•'Mrs. Carpcnder joins me in very deepest sym­pathy at the loss of our beloved Father O'Donncll." ARTHUR S. CARPENDER, Admiral, C/.5. Navy 
"On behalf of the board of the trustees of the Nutrition Foundation we extend our sincercst sym­pathy in the death oi Father O'Donncll, a most valued and highly esteemed member of our board." 
GEORGE A. SLOAN, President 
"All of us, at the National Broadcasting Company are distressed at the neu-s about Father O'Donnell. He w-as a great friend and a true Christian and he will be missed by all of us who admired him so greatlyJ" .\7LES TRAMMELL 
"In expressing my deepest s>-mpathy to you in the death of Father O'DonneJl I want you to know that the whole Navy shares the same feeling that we have lost a great friend.'* 
JAMES FORRESTAL, Secretary of Navy 
"The Notre Dame Club of Memphis extends deepest sympathy to the University in the loss of one of her great sons." T. J. FOLEY, JR., 
President 
•'Heartfelt sj-mpalhy to Notre Dame on its great loss. May Father Hugh's noble soul rest in peace eternal." RICHARD REID 
'TTie Notre Dame Club of Washington extends 
its sympathy to the University in its great Joss. 
Father O'Donnell was a true man of God and a 
great leader of men." 
DANIEL C. CULHANE, President 
'*The Sisters of Mercy of province of Detroit 
sense the loss of a brilliant educator in Father 
Hugh O'Donnell. S>-mpathy is offered with the 
tribute of their prayers for the repose of the great 
soul who has gone to its retvard." 
MOIHER PROVINCIAL and COUNCILORS 
**Thc Notre Dame Club of Detroit wishes to ex­
press its deepest sympathy to the faculty, the stu­
dents and to the alumni throughout the world in 
the passing of its great son, student, athlete^ priest 
and friend. Father Hugh O'Donnell." 
JOSEPH A. BACH, President 
"The Notre Dame Club of Grand Rapids and Western Afichigan tender their sincere and heartfelt sympathy on the loss of Father O'Donncll. . . . our honorary president, fellow townsman and be­loved friend. We join our pra>-ers • with yours, the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

great and noble educator and priest of God. We 
at Prox-idencc College will remember the soul of 
Father O'Donnell in our praj'ers and Afasses.** 
(REV.) ROBERT J. SLAVIN, President 

•'The Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles extends sincere expressions of sympathy over your loss in the passing of Father O'Donnell, an outstanding priest, leader and friend. Masses arc being offered for the repose of his soul." 
TOM ASHE, President 

••The Notre Dame Club of New Orleans extends 
its deepest s>-mpathy to the University and the 
alumni in the loss of Father O'Donncll who per­
sonified the tradition and spirit of Notre Dame." 
JULES K. de LaVERGNE, President 

'•Shocked at word of Father O'Donnell's death. 
He was a great priest. S>'mpathy to you and all at 
Notre Dame." 
BISHOP IRETON (Richmond, Va.) 

•'On behalf of the Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania may I extend through you to the family of Father O'Donnell, the Community and the University the sincere s)-mpathy of our group on the untimely death of Father O'DonneU." 
LAWRENCE J. O'TOOLE, President 

"Accept our sincere condolence on the death of war dead. Father ODonnell with Father O'Donncll, outstanding educator and truly WiUiam T, Craddick, C.S.C. 
great priest." (REV.) THOMAS F. FLYNN, CM. , 
Acting President^ St. Johns University, Brooklyn 
Congregation of Holy Cross, the student body and 
the alumni for the repose of his soul." "Prayerful condolence on the occasion of the 
JOSEPH F. DEEB, President death of Father Hugh O'Donnell." 
"The members of the Fort Wayne Notre Dame ADMINISTRATION FACULTY and STUDENT 
Club express their deep regret upon receiving news BODY, DUNBARTON COLLEGE 
of Father O'DonnclI's death. He will be remem­
bered with -deep affection by those of us who knew "Deeply regret my inability to be present at the 
him well. We share your grief in this great loss funeral of my dear friend and fellow student. 
to the University." Father Hugh was really a man, a great' Notre 
BERNARD KEARNS, President Dame man, and did a wonderful job. Please extend 
•'My deep s>'mpathy and that of all the Dominican ' my sympathy to his family." JOE BYRNE Fathers at Providence College on the passing of a (Continued on Page 25) 
STATEMENT OF FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH 
Father O'Donnell died nobly as he lived. He sensed, an hour or so in advance, the approach of death, called in his brother priests and spent his last moments on earth mentally repeating the prayers provided for the dying by hb Congregation and his Church. Four months before, he had taken from his Provincial word of his incurable disease with complete resignation; in fact, his first action after hearing that he had cancer of the pancreas was to go with Father Steiner and Father Walsh to the Infirmary Chapel and there, at the Com­munion rail, to make an act of humble and complete resignation. 
The disruption in his plans, which, at fift\'-two, included immediately a trip to South America and Europe, the suffering and nausea that he endured, he bore gladly. His own reaction to these miseries he expressed in these words: "If I who have preached for thirty years resignation to God's Will should now falter, what a piker I would be!" Father O'Donnell suffered and died nobly. 
He lived nobly. He was a model of temperance in his use of this world's comforts. He was unfailingly charitable in his speech and in his dealings with others. He conceived at Ordination the highest ideal of the priesthood and strove prayerfully ever)' minute of his life to live up to that ideal. Sometimes he may have given the impression of attempting to be a "grand" character; he succeeded notably in being a grand character—an alter Christus, another Christ. ^ 
As President of the University for six and one-half most difiicult years—in anticipation of war, while the war \vent on, and in the first stages of the post-war readjustment—he distinguished himself by manifesting excellent judgment, foresight, and unusual administrative tact and ability. His high rank among the presidents of the University can not be questioned. I shall always remember him, however, after six and one-half intimate and pleasant years, as one of the most exemplary priests and dearest friends with whom a human being could be associated. The universal sorrow, when Father O'Donnell died, among the faculty, stu­dents, alumni, and friends of Notre Dame was proof that his rare priestly character had not been underestimated. Anyone who knew him realizes that through seeking first the King­dom of God, he not only lived nobly and won acclaim in this world, but bought an imperish­able mansion for the eternity he has so lately entered, and which he shall so long enjoy. 
Volume 25, No. 4, August, 1947 
Letter from Voss, Norway 
By ARTHUR L DENCHFELD, JR., '28 
This is the "letter from Voss" that I promised you in my postcard from Oslo. We arrived yesterday at nineteen o'clock (or seven o'clock by a South Bend watch!) and took the lovely room reserved for us at Fleisher's Hotel. From our hotel veranda we can look across beautiful Vangsvann Lake to the backdrop of snow-capped moun­tains, one of them, Grasida, being some 1,300 meters high. The township proper of Voss only contains some 3,500 hard-working souls, while another few thousand populate the nearby valleys and outlying district. We looked up Johannes Rokne, whose father, George, now deceased, was Knutc Rockne's 
brother. Johannes, who speaks fluent English —^as do many Nonvegians—told us of the hardships during the five years when the people of Norway, as in other occupied coun­tries, were held as virtual prisoners for some five years. 
The people of Voss were prepared for no great resistance in April 1, 1940; although they knew that the Germans were capable of occupying their land, they didn't for a moment suppose that they were to be sub­jected to bombing and strafing. On April 23, 24, and 25, 1940, the German planes flew over the center of Voss and bombed practically all the central part of the town. 
O'Donnell Memorial Dedicated 
—Photo by Indianapolis Star. 

Present at the. dedication of the Father O'Donnell memorial were, left to right Alva Andis, Kiwanis Club president: Mrs. Agnes Carey, Kokomo. Ind., sister of Father ODonneU; MaYOr Loren W. Eikenberry of Greenfield: and Father Charles Carey. C.S.C.. nephew of Father O'Donnell and the principal speaker. 
Residents of Greenfield, Ind., assembled on June 25 for the dedication of a granite boulder bearing a bronze plaque memo­rializing the late Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., '06, Greenfield native and eleventh president of the University of Notre Dame. 
The memorial was presented by the Greenfield Kiwanis club and was accepted for the city by Mayor L. W. Eikenberry. The Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C, a member of the University faculty and a nephew of 
Father O'Donnell, gave the principal ad­dress. Father Carey spoke of Father O'Don­ncl's contributions to Notre Dame: 
"Notre Dame's eminence in education and leadership in sports are both contributions of Father O'Donnell's era and reign as president. He was a firm believer in a well-rounded curriculum. On this plaque Green­
field's residents can read and remember with pride the achievements of one of their most illustrious sons." 
IS 

sparing only the old town church built iiu 1270. The reason, as given later by a Ger­man Luftwaffe officer to Johannes Rokne, was the Germans were informed that some 20,000 Norwegian troops were quartered in Voss, which information was erroneous. Only nine of the villagers were killed during the three day's bombing due, fortunately, to signals given by a siren alarm. Johannes put his wife and all he could grab in his old Ford and headed for the mountain roadways nearby, where he witnessed hb town being blown up by incendiary bombs. The house of George Rokne, on the present site of Johannes' hardware business, was also blown up and that is the house where Knute Rockne was bom. 
I told Johannes Rokne, who has been to the U.S.A. and left there in 1935, of the Rockne Memorial Gymnasium at the Uni­versity, and he knew nothing of this new building on our. campus. I told him that you would send him some photographs of the campus and of the Rockne Memorial Gym in exchange for which he will try to send you some photos of the house where Rockne was bom, taken before the bomb­ing. Old photos and pictures arc hard to 
•find because the photographer's shop, as also the family albums of all the villagers, were burned in the bombing. The Germans thought at first that the Allied invasion would take place in Norway and, conse­quently, had many fortifications built all along the coast. Near Voss the Germans built an air strip and planted two wooden decoy planes thereon so the British would waste' their bombs. This airstrip cost the Norwegians some seven million kronor (350,­000 dollars at present rates). 
Johannes is the nearest kin of Knutc Rockne in Norway, since Rock's parents and family all settled in or around Chicago. One of the sisters, the youngest is still working in the Byllesby Engineering Company, in the Illinois Trust & Savings Bank Bldg., at LaSallc and Jackson, Chicago, while the other two sisters arc married. Johannes has three brothers, Berger, Olav, and Knute, all living. 
Johannes says that Rockne put a "c" be­fore the "k" so that the proper pronuncia­tion of the name might be conserved. He added a "c" also when he visited the U.SA. Johannes is a great admirer of the United States, as are all his brothers, and his father, George, before him. 
.•\cross the beautiful Lake Vangsvann, high 
up in the hills, is Knute Rockne's father's 
farm. Knute Rockne's father was also named 
Knute. Johannes is going to take us up 
to this hillside farm in a few minutes, just 
before we catch the train for Bergen. I 
promised you a letter from Voss, and here 
it is. Johannes wants me to say "hello" to 
you and all the Notre Dame men everywhere; 
maybe he'll visit the U.S.A. again sometime 
in the future. 
Kindest regards, 
A. Denchfield 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
| 
^ 
^ 
^ 

Footbcdl Tickets, 1947 Style 
Three Games Sellouts in Early August; Demand Strong for Others 
AAF UNIT ESTABUSHEO 

An Army Air Forces Reserve Officers Training Corps unit is being established at the University it was aimounced recently by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., 
As this is written (on Aug. 21), three 

Notre Dame football games are sellouts: 
Army (as though you didn't know), Na\-y 
and Northwestern. The sale for other 
games has been strong and it's probable 
that additional sellouts wU be announced 
before this issue of the ALUMNUS reaches 
its readers. 
Judging from correspondence in the 

Alumni Office and in the Ticket Office, the 
regulations covering football ticket prefer­
ence for 1947 have, in general, been well 
understood. And the cooperation of alumni 
has been admirable. First printed in the 
February, 1947, ALUMNUS, these regula­
tions were repeated in the April ALUM­
NUS, and then in May each member of the 
Alumni Association was mailed a copy of 
them. 
To sum up briefly: (1) Alumni in good standing (apparently an unpopular way of saying contributors to the Fifth Fund) as of June 15 were eligible for ticket preference; 
(2) alumni preference blanks for all games were mailed late in June only to alumni in goodstanding as of June 13; (3) the alumni preference sale opened on July 1 and closed on July 25, thus giving alumni the opportun­ity to purchase tickets prior to and exclusive of the general public sale; (4) late in July general public blanks for all games except Army were mailed to o//.members of the Alumni Association, and the general public sale for all games, except .\rmy, opened on Aug. 1; (5) there was no sale of Army tickets to the general public; (6) 14,000 Army tickets were available to alumni in good standing, with a limit of two tickets per alumnus. 
In what we thought was a liberal estimate on the basis of last year's figures, we estimated early last spring that 7,000 alumni would be in good standing by the June 15 deadline. Instead, 8,307 "(including the religious) were in good standing by this date. The result you can imagine—the alumni quota of 14,000 Army tickets at two tickets per person was quickly taken up, and it was necessary in some cases to return .'Vrmy orders and checks. 
One other point: it should apparently be emphasized that the term "in good standing" as ordinarily used ser\'es only to designate those who had by June 15 contributed to the Fifth Annual Fund in keeping with the regulations as published. (Religious, and honorary degree holders, are automatically "in good standing" according to the con­sittution of the Alumni Association.) There is no other meaning, intended or implied, in the term. 
We appreciate the fact that for substantial reasons some alumni did not or could not contribute to the Fund by June 15. Others "just forgot." All of these are still good Notre Dame alumni. Please understand that. It's just that, in offering ticket preference to alumni, (a great many colleges don't at­tempt it), it's necessary to utilize some yard­stick of measurement, some mechanics by means of which the limited number of pre­ferred tickets can be allotted equitably. The plan we have is the best one we can think of under the conditions as they exist. Sug­gestions from alumni for practical improve­ment would be sincerely welcomed. 
Thanks for your cooperation all around. We'll be seeing you this fall. 
APPLICATIONS FOR 1946 , 

.Applications for enrollment at Notre 
Dame in September, 1948, are now being 
received according to an announcement-of-
Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., registrar. 
Those interested in entering the University 
at that time can procure the necessary bul­
letins and application forms by writing to 
Father Thornton. Early action is advised. 
No beginning students will be accepted for 
the semester starting in February, 1948, 
Father Thornton said. He explained that 
the capacity enrollment in September, 1947, 
straining all the facilities of the University 
to the utmost, makes necessary this ruling. 
VAN WALLACE TO LOURDES 

Making his long-awaited pilgrimage to Lourdes in France, David Van Wallace, '27, Mt. Clemens, Mich., was to sail from New York-City on Aug. 27 accompanied by his mother ,and his cousin. Aboard the ship with hini '-was his new, specially-equipped station wagon presented to him on Aug. 8 through the efforts of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit to replace the travel-worn car given by the club which Van had used for years. 
Enroute to New York, Van, who has been paralyzed since a diving accident in 1924, stopped for a short time in Buffalo, N. Y., and overnight in Rochester and Albany. In each place, and in New York City, where he spent several days, he was welcomed by members of the local Notre Dame club. 
With the assistance of funds raised by the Detroit Club and the University of Detroit High School alumni, Van ^vas about to sail for Lourdes when World War II broke out. The money originally raised for the trip was retained in a trust fund and is being used ' now. 
president. 
Father Cavanaugh revealed that Notre Dame officials had accepted an offer by AAF Headquarters to set up an Air ROTC at the University to train Air Corps admin­istrative reserve officers. Notre Dame has had a Naval ROTC since 1941. 
Two crack Army fliers, Lt. Col. Leonard 
W. Palmer, Gwinn, Mich., and Major Ar­thur Small, Durant, Okla., and an AAF administrative officer, Capt. Thomas J. Hardy, Logansport, Ind., have been assigned to Notre Dame arid are currently organizing the ROTC unit so. that it will be ready to enroll qualified students when the University opens in September. The three officers will be assisted by four non-commissioned offi­cers who have been transferred to Notre Dame from other Air ROTC units. 
The student quota for the Notre Dame 
Air ROTC has not yet been established, but 
indications are that it will start with around 100 sli^cn^ in the Basic Course. In addi­ction, "World"'War II veterans with at least 
two years left in the University will be 
eligible to^.enroll In the Advanced Course. 
Graduates of the Advanced Course will be 
commissioned as second lieutenants in the 
Air Corps Reserve, and may apply for ex­
tended active duty. 
No pilot training will be given. The en­tire ROTC course will consist of an aver­age of four hours per week during the scho­lastic year for four years. Standard ROTC instruction will be given in the Basic Course, which will last two years. The first year of the Advanced Course will consist of gen­eral instruction in communications, navi­gation, aircraft maintenance, administration, personnel management, armament and other subjects. During the second year specialized instruction will be given in one of the above. 
More than one-third of the 10,000 Notre Dame alunmi and students who served in the United States Armed Forces in World War II were in.the Air-Forces. 
For God, Country, Notre Dame in Glory Everlasting 
The Alumni Office has just learned that ROBERT E; FOX, ex '44, Chicago, was killed in a plane crash on May 28, 1943, near Hutchinson, Kans. Twelve other of­ficers were also killed when two Liberator bombers collided in mid-air. Bob was one of the pilots. 
Bob, who was a student at Notre Dame from September, 1940 to February, 1941, is survived by his mother, two sisters and a 
brother. 
Volume 25, No. 4, August, 1947 
Gmduation Climaxes Summer on Campus 
Catholic Action Sessions and Liturgical Program Arc Features of First Postwar Summer School Attended by 1,743; History Sym­posium Is Conducted and Flight Demonstration Program Intitated. 
Over two hundred received degrees at graduation exercises in Washington Hall on Aug. 12, marking the formal end of Notre Dame's first postwar summer session. The graduates heard Rev. John H. Murphy, vice-president of the University, as com­mencement speaker. 
The total enrollment of the term was 1,743. Of these 1,250 were undergraduates and 493 graduate students. Sisters, repre­senting more than 25 religious communitieii, comprised nearly one-fourth of the enroll­ment. 
A former Chicago attorney who later be­came a professed Sister, had the distinction of being the only Sister appointed to teach during the summer school at the University of Notre Dame. She was Sister Mary Li­gouri, B.V.M., '32. She taught a course in Social Problems. 
Study Catholic Action ­

Students attending the summer session were given an opportunity to extend their understanding of the nature, purposes and means of specialized Catholic Action at a weekend program of Catholic Action study held on the campus July 12 and 13. 
Rev. Bernard MuUahy, C.S.C, Catholic Action chaplain at St. Mary's College, open­ed the two-day program with a talk "on "Catholic Action: the Twentieth Century Apostolate." Rev. Raymond Cour, C.S.C, also a Catholic Action chaplain at St. Mary's,'spoke on the "Apostolate of Like by Like." 
The July 12 sessions also featured a Cath­olic Action Workshop in various groups. Discussion in the Young Christian Workers section was led by James Cunningham, '44, publicity director of the Young Christian Workers in South Bend, and Miss Catherine O'Connor, leader of Young Christian Work­ers in South Bend. The Young Christian Workers were divided into two groups, the college section being led by Robert Reynolds of Notre Dame, Miss Mary Kain of St. Mary's and Miss Patricia OUivier of Mary Manse College, Toledo, O. The high school group was led by George McDonnell, of Loyola University, Chicago. 
The program concluded on July 13 with special masses in Sacred Heart Church. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C, moderator of Catholic Action at Notre Dame, and the Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C, Catholic Ac­tion chaplain on the campus, delivered the sermons. 

The University was host on Aug 4-8 to the fifth annual Catholic Action Study Week for priests. The week featured lectures by such world-renowned Catholic Actionists as Patrick Keegan, England's national YCW president. Mr. Keegan led a discussion on "The Personal .Apostolate." 
The program included talks by Msgr. Reynold Hillenbrand, of Chicago, on "So­cial Problems of Today;" Rev. John Fitz­simons, Liverpool, England, and a faculty member at Notre Dame, on "Papal Teach­ing Concerning Catholic Action;" and the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C, Catholic Action Moderator at Notre Dame, on "The Theology of Catholic Action." 
'Speci.ilized forms of Catholic Action were spotlighted when discussion centered around the Young Christian Workers, the Young Christian Students, and the Young Chris­tian Farmers. The latter's role was reviewed by Msgr. Luigi Ligutti, director of the Na­tional Rural Life Conference. 
Rev. William Ferree, S.M., of Dayton, O., discussed "The Institutional Apostolate," and Rev. Raban Hathom, O.S.B., of St. Meinrad's Abbey, St. Meinrad's Ind., told of "The Liturgy and Catholic Action." Ar­rangements for the study week were handled by Father Putz of the Notre Dame faculty. 
A history symposium, sponsored by the Teacher's History Club of the University, was conducted on the campus, July 11 and 
BUSINESS OPPOBTDNITIES 

The Madison Products Co.. 3005 Detroit Ave.. Toledo 10, Ohio, through John A. Hurst. '38, manager, is seeking dealers in several communiiies for its mothproofing products and service. Required to make only a nominal investment the service dealer, or franchise holder, is offered the opportunity of building up his own prof­itable business within a short time. Fran­chises are now open in Indiana. Ohio, tCchigan. West Virginia and Kentucky, and will later be open in other states. 
The company is also seeking sales su­pervisors for some areas. Su ^ snpervis­ors are responsible; not only for the sale of mothproofing products, but also for the sale of additional company products. 
Those interested can get additional in­formation by writing to John Hurst. 
12. The symposium acted as a reorganiza­tion meeting of the club whose operations 
, were suspended during the wrar. The Teach­er's History Club is composed primarily of present and past students of the Department of History at Notre Dame and their friends who are engaged in the teaching of history in high schools. 
New Uturgieol Program 

As the summer session came to a close the success of the new liturgical program under the direction of Rev. Michael A. Ma­this, C.S.C, became more apparent. Dom Thomas Aquinas Michcls, O.S3., of St. Paul's Priory, Keyport, N. J., delivered-a series of jecturcs on the History of the Sacred Liturgy according to the Latin Rite from Christian antiquity up to and including the modem liturgical movement. Seven other series of lectures were given by lecturers of national importance: Dom Godfrey Diek­
• man, O.S.B.,; Dr. Willis D. Nutting, of No­tre Dame; Rev. H. A. Reinhold; Very Rcv. Msgr. R. Hillenbrand; Rev. Bernard Lau­kemper; Dom Bede Scholz, O.S.B.; Dom" Damasus Winzen, O.S.B., and the Rev. Ger­ald Ellard, S.J. 
Another unique program instituted dur­ing the siunmer session is the engineering flight demonstration program which is de­signed to supplement theoretical principles of aerodynamics and airplane dynamics taught in the classroom with actual flying exper­ience. 
The program, believed to be the only one of its kind in colleges and universities in the United States, is designed to provide each of the advanced aeronautical engineer­ing students enrolled in the course with eight . hours of flight demonstration. 
Lt. Col. Francis X. Bradley, A.C. Re­serve, '39, instructor in mathematics at the University, was appointed by Prof. F. N. M. Brown, head of the department of Aeronau­tical En^eering, io provide instruction in flight demonstration in the air. 
Meanwhile, many other Notre Dame stu­dents were'taking advantage of the stunmer school at Mexico City, Mexico. The session, sponsored by Notre Dame as a contribution toward better inter-American understanding, ran from June 23 to Aug. 22. Prof. Walter 
M. Langford, head of the department of Modem Languages at Notre Dame, scr\'cd as director of the summer session in Mexico. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Gilmour Academy Begins Second Year 
t' >:?! f t^ 
!'•;•*' 
:ti5j»e2fes33S«^ 

Members oi the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland and their fomiUes gathered ot Gibnoor Academy on July 26 ior a iamily picnic. A iew oi those in attendance are lined up here alongnde the new school bus. As you can see. oU ages were represented. 
A year ago the Alumnus carried an article 
on Gilmour Academy, Cleveland's new resi­
dential preparatory school for boys, operated 
by the Brothers of Holy Cross. I represented 
the Brothers in the negotiations for the pur­
chase of the beautiful Drury estate which 
was to become Gilmour Academy and have 
been closely connected with the school since 
it opened. I have always been conscious of 

Cleveland's wealth of educational and cul­
tural opportunities and I was pleased when 
Gilmour began to tap this cultural wealth. 
My personal pride in Gilmour was refresh­

ed again when I read the school's aims 
which were recently released by Brother 
Theophane Schmitt, C.S.C., headmaster. 
Quite naturally the overall aim of the school 
is teaching Christian thinking. But I was 
impressed by the supreme effort and means 
used to accomplish this goal. 
The Brothers have chosen to complement the traditional courses of science, mathe­matics, English, languages, social studies with forums for study of cultural arts. This feature is best pointed out in their own statement of aims—"In the Freshman and Sophomore years a course called 'Cultural Arts' begins with a basic explanation of the meaning of culture, and then the growth of architecture, painting, sculpturing, landscap­ing, and home decoration is studied and evaluated in the light of the principles of real culture and the Catholic principles of 
art "The Sophomore year is complemented by the philosophy of music. In this course the basic elements of art are applied to the 
By JOHN P. MTOPHY. '12 

study of the important forms of vocal and instrumental music: folk music, the chant, polyphony, overture, the tone poem, and the ballet. The theorj' of the 'Cultural Arts* course is supplemented by visits to the Cleve­land Museum of Art, attendance at the Metropolitan Opera, and the Cleveland Sym­phony. 
"The philosophy of democracy enriches the third year. This forum brings to light the Christian foundations of American de­mocracy. The Declaration of Independence and the Constitution are anal>'zed. Also the student learns the relationship between his democracy and tolerance, voting, military ser\'ice, universal education, and diplomacy. 
"The fourth year has forums on literary criticism where reviews and discussions of books, ideas, and the theater develop the analytical habit of mind, enabling the stu­dent to make a choice on the grounds of principle. 
"These four forums, designed to integrate the entire curriculum, assure the students the tools for analysis and fair judgment of people, ideas, politics, cultural arts, books, . the theater, and new cults." 
Gilmour Academy is living up to its best hopes. It is filling a long needed want in our Cleveland community life. A Catholic school with the finest of Christian and Amer­ican ideals. I am most pleased to have this opportunity to congratulate the good Broth­ers who are operating the school and to tell our alumni how proud they may be over this venture in the work of God and our Country. 
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SCHOOL 
Through the Outdoor Advertising Foun­dation at Notre Dame, important steps are being taken to "harmonize" outdoor adver­tising with newspaper, magazine and radio 
advertising, according to McCarthy of the Notre Commerce. 
Dean McCarthy made June at the close of a 
 Dean James E.  Dame College of 
 this statement in  special Outdoor 

Advertising School at Notre Dame which had as its faculty many top-ranking adver­tising experts. The school was attended by nearly 100 plant operators and employees of many outdoor advertising firms in the United States. 
This June, for the first time because of previous wartime conditions. Dean McCarthy revealed, twenty Notre Dame graduates were absorbed into individual outdoor advertising companies or into the Outdoor Advertising association, which is seeking to improve professional, technical and other standards in the industry. 
Dean McCarthy also said that, at the re­quest of the outdoor advertising industry itself, working through the Notre Dame Outdoor Advertising Foundation, the Col­lege of Science and the College of Engineer­ing at the University of Notre Dame are conducting important research for that in­dustry. 
# 

Volume 25, No. 4, August, 1947 
B^ Rayjuond !• Dooowk 4L 
» » 
PaUiel 

* ATHLETICS 
^^^^^^WWW^^Sr»^^»^<^»^^^'W^^^^S/^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^S^^^^^^^^M*^^^^>^WV^^^^^s^S»^^^^»V^WMVMMMMMMM^MM^MM^VMMM^^>^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^iW^^ 
FOOTBALL 
Coach Frank Leahy will welcome back 39 monogram men early in September when the Irish footballers start drills for the sea­son opener against Pittsburgh on Oct. 4. 
Seeking to go last year's record of eight wins and a tie with Army, the team will be well stocked with veteran performers in nearly cver>' position. Only at guard is there any visible shortage of depth. 
At the guard posts, Notre Dame will keenly feel the loss of AU-American and captain John Mastrangclo, Fred Rovai, Tom Potter and Vince Scott. Returning for the 
^ 1947 season, however, will be such notables 
" as Bill Fischer, Marty Wendell, Joe Sig­naigo, and John Connor. Joe Yonto, a full­back on last year's aggregation, has been switched to a guard for the forthcoming campaign. 
Coach Leahy's team is flanked with good material at the ends. Returning are Jim Martin, regular last year; Leon Hart, who showed up especially well late in the 1946 season; Bill Wightkin, Frank Kosikowski, Doug Waybright and Bill Leonard, who was a regular on the 1945 Irish eleven. 
A slight question mark looms in the tackle spots, since at this writing it is not certain whether or not Ziggy Czarobski, who held down a regular tackle berth last year, will return to school, and Jack Fallon is bother­ed with a bad knee. Others who will be on hand for the opening of practice, how­ever, include AU-American and Captain­^ elect George Connor, George Sullivan, Gus Cifelli, Ralph McGehee and Gasper Urban. 
At center, Notre Dame fans have little to worry about, since the regular Irish pivot man in 1946, George Strohmeyer, heads a list of five top-flight centers. Closely press­
. ing Strohmeyer are Bill Walsh, Walt Grot­haus. Bill Vangen and Art Statute. 
The loss of George Ratterman, who sign­ed during the summer, to play professional football with the Buffalo Bills, will be sorely felt by Coach Leahy as he had counted on Ratterman as an able replacement for John­ny Lujack at quarterback. As it now stands, Lujack will be followed by Frank Tripucka, who stood out as a passer in the Old Timers-Varsity game last spring; Bill Brown, Gerry Begley and Bill Hawood. 
The Lcahymen shoiild have an outstand­ing running attack with such jackrabbit halfbacks available as Emil Sitko, Terry Brennan, Bill Gompers, Bob Livingstone, Mike Swistowicz, • Coy McGee, Ernie Zalej­
• 
ski, Jimmy Brennan and Fred Barley all of 
whom gained prominence last season. 
• At fiiUback, the Irish will be minus Jim Mello, last year's regular, but will be able to counter with John Panelli, Floyd Sim­mons, and Corwin Clatt. Mike Swistowicz, aforementioned as a halfback, also may be used at fulback during the season. 
Fans who watch the Notre Dame team during the 1947 season may expect to see one deviation from last year's Irish style. It is expected that Johnny Lujack, in addi­tion to filling the air with his noted passing attack, also will do a little ball-carrying on his own behalf. Lujack experimented in the running department during the Old Timers-Varsity tilt and the result was little short of sensational. 
Until shortly before the Irish begin prac­tice. Coach Leahy will be busy coaching the • College AU-Stars for their game with the Chicago Bears to be played in Soldiers Field, Chicago, on Aug. aa. Coach Leahy was named to ser\'e as head coach of the AU-Stars. 
TENNIS 
The powerful Notre Dame tennis team, undefeated during regular season play and victorious in the Central CoUegiate Con­ference meet, showed up well in the National CoUegiate Athletic .Association tournament held in Los Angeles but not quite weU enough to capture either team or individual titles. 
William and Mary College, also undefeat­ed during the 1947 season, for the second consecutive year won the team title in the national meet as they placed three men in the quarter-finals. And it was Gardner Lamed, William and Mary ace, who defeat­ed the only remaining Notre Dame man in the quarter-finals of individual play. Captain Jimmy Evert, 6-3, 7-5. 
The Irish doubles combination of Jimmy and Jerry Evert advanced to the semi-finals before losing. In other singles play, Notre Dame's Bob David lost in first round com­petition, but Charles Samson, Bill TuUy and Jerry Evert went in to second round play before dropping out. 
Before the national tourney, Jimmy Ev­ert won the Illinois state tennis champion­ship in singles competition, and the Irish captain teamed with his brother Jerry to cop the lUini doubles crown. In the Okla­homa state meet in Oklahoma City, the Ev­ert brothers played exceptionally well before bowing to nationally-known Ted Schroeder and Don Tuero of Tulanc in the doubles finals, 12-10, 7-5, 6-3. 
Upsets in singles play featured the West-em Junior and Boys' 1947 tennis champion­ships held July 21 to 26 at Notre Dame, as top-seeded entrants in both divisions fdl by the wayside in singles competition. 
In the boys' dix-ision, after John Sahia­tian, of Detroit, had upset second-seeded Hamilton Richardson, of Baton Rouge, LaL, top-seeded Richard Holroyd, of Del Ray Beach, Fla., lost to Conrad Woods, unseeded entrant from Los Angeles. In the finals of the boys' singles division, two unseeded com~ petitors battled in an aU-Los Angeles en­counter. Robert Perry was crowned the boys' champion after defeating- Conrad Woods, 6-2, 6-2, 6-2. 
Competition ran true to form in the boys' doubles division, when the highly-favored combination of Holroyd and Rich­ardson swept to the championship by defeat­ing the No. 2 team of Fred Hagist, of Hol­lister, Calif., and Whitney Reed, of Alameda^ Calif., 6-2, 6-4, in the finals. • 
The top upsetter among the juniors proved to be Tony Trabert, 16-year old Ohio Interscholastic champion from Cin­cinnati. In the quarter-final round the fifth-seeded Trabert disposed of fourth-seeded Sidney Schwartz, of Brooklyn, N. Y., and the foUowing day ousted top-seeded Herbert (Buddy) Behrens, of F t Lauderdale, Fla., Trabert won the junior title by raUying to-beat third-seeded Alex Hetzeck, who had beaten second-seeded Dick Mouledoiu, of New Orleans, 9-7, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4. 
Behrens and Mouledous copped the junior doubles title by eliminating Schwartz and McDonald Mathey, of Princeton, N. J., 7-5,. 4-6, 8-6, 6-4. 
GOLF 
The Irish golfers were off their game in. the NCAA golf toiuney at Aim Arbor. No­tre Dame, coached' by the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., finished well down the-list in team play, but Dick Seidell, captain-elect of the Irish linksmen, posted a 157 to-keep pace with the leaders in first round play before losing out. 
ALL-STAR GAME 

Frank Leahy, director of athletics and head football coach, was the head coach of the CoUcge AU-Stars who played against the Chicago Bears in Chicago on Aug. 22. T\»a of Frank's assistants were Ed Krausc, Notre Dame line coach, and Marchy SchMrart:^ head coach at Stanford. The game was sponsored by the Chicago Tribune through Arch Ward, '21, sports editor, and his de­partment. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
Akron 
At the evening banquet meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night, at the University Club of Akron, the following officers for 1947 were elected: PAUL 
A. BERTSCH, president; HUGH M. COLOPY. \-ice-president; JOHN ^f. KELLY, secretary; and ROBERT KOLB, treasurer. 
Monthly luncheon meetings are informally con­ducted at Kraker's Old Heidelberg Restaurant in the Student Prince Room, on the first Tuesday of each month. 
A summer dance sponsored by the Club was held at Seiberling Countrj- Club on Aug. 1, with WIL­LIAM AHERN as chairman of the dance committee and Mrs. THEODORE A. LEY as chairman of the ladies. The proceeds of this dance will be applied to the scholarship fund. JOHN KELLY 
Baltimore 
On June 27 the dub held a meeting at the Gunther Community- House, Baltimore. Socially and from 2 business standpoint, the afTair was most successful. More than sixty members and their wives attended, and nineteen guests of the club w*erc on hand. 
The next get-together was to be a club picnic in August. 
Central New York 
President "ZEKE" MOONEY called the balls and strikes, at a gala event held June 12 at the Ca\-alry Club, near Deuitt, N. Y. The affair was attended by over 30 N. D. men and students. Starting at thrre, the horseshoe-pitching contest, the baseball game and associated acti\ities consumed the after­noon until a delicious buffet dinner was sen-ed. DUKE KINNEY, recently returned from Florida, gave an instruction period on how to sneak in and out of Sorin Hall to ROBERT TAYLOR and ROBERT GAFFNEY. of next year's graduating dass. BILL GATE and JUSTIN CORCORAN told of the Alumni Reunion at Notre Dame, and plans for the pilgrimage to the Notre Dame-.A,rmv game were discussed. JACK McAULlFFE, chairman. JUSTIN CORCORAN and E. W. KENEF.\KE did a fine job arranging the June Reunion. 
At the meeting, the members present signed a letter which was to be sent to the family of the late FATHER HUGH O'DONTCELL, C.S.C. A Kfass of requiem was offered by REV. FRANK H.ARRISON, Notre Dame grad, at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception in S\Tacusc. The Mass was attended by thirty of the dub members, who traveled from distances up to fifty miles. The Mass was arranged by REV. JOHN HARRISON, chaplain of the local unit. 
PAUL TIERNEY, '43, is now assodated with the Assodates Discount Corp. and drives several hundred miles each week in his new Plymouth. BILL KELLEY, '42. attended bis fifth reunion at Notre Dame and also made an inspection trip of the Studebaker plant. VINCE BROWN, who hasn't missed a meeting in several yean, is mo\'Jng to Buffalo. JOHN H. TERRY 
Cfcicogo 
JAMES KANE, '44, diairman of the Luncheon Committee, has had a good showing at each of the three monthly luncheons. The May luncheon, featuring JAMES H. CROWXEY, executive and head coach of the Chicago Rockets, was a capadty­plus affair. TTie second luncheon, also well attended, featured another alumnus, JOSEPH C. REPINE, '34, one of the directors of the Cook County Juvenile Detention Home. The July gathering enjoyed an entertaining talk by Leslie O'Connor, business mana­ger of the Chicago \Vhite Sox. Many outstanding persons are slated for the fall and winter monthly luncheons. 
Congratulations were in line for JOHN BUCK­LEY, '38, who was chairman of this year's Golf Tournament. The tournament, held at Acada Coun­try Club, was very well attended and all present were 
DONT xnss 
ARM\'-NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SMOKER 
FRIDAY EVENING, NOV. 7 
GRAND BALLROOM 
STEVENS HOTEL 
CHICAGO 
TICKETS—$3.00 PER PERSON ' 
MAIL CHECK and RESERVATION TO: 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO 
155 NO. CLARK ST. 
CHICAGO 1, ILL. 
DON'T W.AIT 
generous in their praise of the function. John turned over to the dub treasury a good-sized dieck. 
VINCE MURPHY, '37, placement chairman, re­ports that placement activity recently hit an all time high. Shortly after graduation, the office handled in one day, 19 applicants interested in securing em> ployment in the Chicagoland area. Both June and July were active months for the placement office. 

Chairman JAMES R. CRONIN, '35, has been ver>' bus>' with committee meetings and initial de­tails of the .-Vrmy-Notre Dame Football Smoker to be held in the Grand Ballroom of the Stevens Hotel, the night before the game. Jim is planning for a capacity crowd of some 2,200. Out-of-town Alumni who will be here for that dimactic battle should send in for their reser\-ations at once. Tickets will be $3.00 per person; it will be a show you won't want to miss—^but we won't be able to accommodate you that night—rcservatiotts must be made in advance. 
LEO POWERS, '25, director of Community Club Activities, reports that Chairman J.AMES RONAN, '26, has had two meetings in the South Shore area. Chairman JOHN LYONS '29, and Chairman JOHN 
R. SULLIVAN, '31, held a joint meeting recently for their Austin and Oak Park Clubs respectively. Chairman Joseph A. Bailey '26, and Patrick Crowley, '33, plan a summer picnic for their North Shore group. With Frank Pendergast, '27, chairman of the Rogers Park Club, they continue to be one of the most active sectors in the dty. 
CHARLES C. COLLINS, '25, general manager was appointed \ice-prcsident of SVestem Division— National Carloading Corp. . . . JOHN T. BOURKE, '38, was appointed regional personnel director of Liggett Drug Company. . . , JOSEPH F. RYAN has joined the Kroehler IVfanufacturing Co. as manager of the Engineering di\'ision at the company's general offices at Naperville, Illinois. , . . P.\UL J. PFOHL, '22 was appointed western manager of the Commer­cial department of Radio Corporation of America's laboratories division here in Chicago. . . . RICHARD WALTERS, '35, of the Powered Metal Products Corp. has been in print on several occasions in the 
CLUB LUNCHEONS 
AKRON—Kraker's Old Heidelberg Bes­tauicmt—every first Tuesday 
CENTRAL OHIO (Columbus)—University Club—every Monday 
CHICAGO—Deutsch's Besiaurant 28 N. Dearborn SL—every third Wednesday 
DES MOINES—Savery Hotel—every first Friday 
INDIANAPOLIS — Canary Cottage — every Tuesday 
MILWAUKEE—Maryland Hotel —every Thursday 

{The "Alumnus'* will welcome similar information from other clubs) 
past few months mth his lectures to \-arious metal 
lurgtca] groups meeting here in the city. 
ELMER CRANE, '34, BILL KEARNEY, '2b. 

BERNARD KORZEN, '28 and RICHARD PHE­
LAN, *28, have formed a law firm which opened its 
doors a few weeks ago. . . . WILLIAM SCANLAN, ' 
'42, has left the JAMES KEARNS CO. to divide 
his time as publicitor with the Chicago Convention 
Bureau and as pro at the Oak Park Tennis Club. 
. . . SAM ALOXZI, '44, has opened his own loan 
company with headquarters on the northwest side. 
. . . Again the powerful influence of ARCH WARD, 
'20, has been felt with the Major League. moguls 
returning the selection of the All-Star baseball team 
back where it belongs—with the public . . . We 
close with this ad that appeared recntly in the 
"Apartment Wanted" column in the classified sec­
tion of the "Chicago Tribune;" 
AVAST! I ! 
"Ex-na\"al officer, Notre Dame grad., bride, moved 

to Chicago, urgently need 3-4 room apartment, south ^k 
side, excellent references. Only pet is new bride. ^^ 
Saginaw 97(X)." 
ROBERT P. LONERGAN 

Cleveland 
On the 12th of May at a meeting at Chuck Rohr's Restaurant, HUGH M. O'NEILL u:as un­animously elected president of the dub. This, along with serving as governor of the Notre Dame alumni of Ohio, vn\\ keep Hugh mighty busy for the next >Tar. JOHN M. COLEMAN, FRANK J. McGRO-DER. JR. and WILLIAM C. MULLIGAN were elected to assist HUGH in the oflices of vice-presi­dent, secretary and treasurer respectively. Father OTIS WINCHESTER was apiMinted chaplain and NORMAN J. McLEOD, honorary- president. 
At a meeting at the Shaker Country Club on the 26th of May the newly elected officers, along with their predecessors, THOMAS C. BYRNE, EDWARD 
H. SCHROETER. FRANCIS M. PAYN^. JR. and THOMAS E. ENRIGHT, appointed THOMAS F. BYRNE. JOHN J. COLLINS. GEORGE J. KO­ZAK, EUGENE W. OBERST, and DENNIS J­O'NEILL to the board of directors. 
A newly created advisory committee of 35 mem­bers met at the home of HUGH O'NEILL on the ^ 7th of July where the events of the coming year ^' were discussed and a^^reed upon. It was a most successful meeting with spirit and enthusiasm running second only to perfect attendance. 
The annual family picnic was held on July 26 at our own Gilmour Academv. thanks to the generosity of BROTHER THEOPHANE and members of the Holy Cross Congregation. BOB COLEMAN was chairTnan. General chairman BILL EGERS and publidty diairman CHUCK RUSS. undergraduates at Notre Dame, announced their plans for the student summer dance to the officers, directors, and advisors of the dub, and extended a personal In­vitation to all alumni on July 7 at HUGH 0'NT:ILL'S. The dance is to be held at the Lake Shore Countn* Club on Aug. 23. CHUCK KANE, publidty chairman of the alumni dub, has worked out many plans with studente to assure a gaJa eve­ning. 
L.\RRY KRALL and BILL VAN ROOY are co-chairmen for the goU party at Pine Ridge Country Club on Aug. 28. There will be golf and swimming from noon on. with prizes and dinner following in the evening. The alumni are invited to bring their fatheTS and/or sons for this annual get-together that has pro\'en so popular in the past. 
Elaborate plans, induding a Friday night football rally, are being formulated for the Navy-Notre Dame week-«nd in Cleveland. The dub wants to take this early opportunity to extend an invitation to all alumni dubs to join us that WTek-end. Cirde the date on €• the calendar now and plan to meet us Friday night. Oct. 31. TOM C. BYRNE is handling the offidal football program and can be contacted at the Termi­nal Tower, Cleveland. 
FRANK J. McGRODER, JR. 

Volume 25, No. 4. August, 1947 
ing cerUin attitudes of people in this section of. tfae country. We hope that such v'isits nvill be nxwe frequent. 
Our next club activity will be ather a barbecue, or a combination sununer supper and dance on the "Bonnie Barge" on White Rock Lake. GEORGE BECKER, chamnan of the entertainment committee, is making amusements to charter the barge for an evening the latter part of August. 
The members of the Dallas Club contributed 100 per cent this year to the lifth Annual FuniL This shall be our goal next year, and the next. 
WALTER L. FLEMING 

Defroif 
VAN WALLACE is finally going to Lourdes. The sailing date is set for Aug. 23. The Notre Dame Club of Detroit is giving Van a new car to take with him, and we are busy raising additional funds for his expenses. Spark plug for this affair is JIM FOREN and contributions are pouring in every day. 
We had a golf tournament July 1, at Meadow-brook Country Club in Detroit at which we had a fine turn out of 75. TOMMY SHEEHAN and MARV AfARTIN were co>chairmen and, under the watchful eye of vice-president Bert Baur, they hand-' led the details in first class shape. 
On Aug. 2, JOHN ANHUT was host for a picnic at his farm for the dub of Detroit and tfae 
Father John Cavanaugh receives from Walt Nienaber, president of the Cincinnati Detroit Club of Notre Dame. MAL KNAUS Club, a check for two thousand dollars representing the first payment on the club's scholarship fund at the University. The club will add to the fund from year to year and ultimately the money will provide for a Notre Dame scholarship to be awarded Easfern Indiana in the Cincinnati area. In the picture, left to right, are other members of the club: Tbe dub celebrated Unix-ersal Notre Dame Night lerry Hohman. Bill Middendori, Bob Burke and Bert Schloemer. by attending a dinner at the "67'* Supper Club in 
Muncie. 
After a very enjoyable dinner the Club listened The Dean was graciously received, and made an to short talks by BUTCH DE VAULT, BILL 
Connectfcuf Valley 
excellent impression on all who heard him. Follow­CRAIG, and the ntiring president, NORB HART. ing the address, several prominent attorneys warmly Newly elected ofHcers of the club, to ser\'e for the congratulated Dean Manion, made him promise to Officers elected for the coming year an : year 1947-48 are: FLOVD RICHARDS, president; return soon. CHARLES F. VOGT, president; WILLIAM F. 
JIM FLAHERTY and BILL REID, vice-presidents; CRAIG, vice-president; HARRY HART, secretary DON FOSKETT, secretary; and TIM MURPHY, and JAMES FITZMAURICE, treasurer. 
treasurer. The Board of Governors consists of: TOM The club honored Dean Manion and Dean Potts HARRY HART 
CURRY, BILL HURLEY, JOHN CIANCI, JOHN of the Southern Methodist University Law School ROBINSON, and RAY SNYDER. with a luncheon in the Melrose Hotel. It was a most successful afternoon, and everyone remained 
Forf Wayne
The June meeting was highlighted by the prcs> until the many improvements at Notre Dame had Our Monte Carlo party was held on the cvenii^ ence of ANGELO BERTELLI and MILT PIEPUL. been thoroughly discussed. of June 25, and JOO guests (members and their Bert and Milt provided the club members with a wives or girl friends) were in attendance. The party most enjo)*abIe evening. Football, of course, was the The \Tsits of FATHER SWEENEY and DEAN was sponsored by Mis. Harry G. Hf^an, wife of our principal topic of discussion. A great many of the MANION have accomplished a great deal in chang-national president, and Mrs. Oscar A. Fox, wife of outstanding Noire Dame football games of a few years ago were replayed, with vigorous participation by members of the local "Monday Morning Quarter­back's Association." Bcrlelli also told some of his interesting experiences in professional football. 
JOHN ROBINSON,* ncwiy-appointcd alumni gov­ernor for Connecticut, outlined for the club members the objectives of the Alumni Association under the new set-up, and explained what his functions, as gowrnor for this area, would be. 
A great deal of interest is already developing among the brethren with reference to the Notre Dame-Army game, and it is expected that a goodly delegation of Nutmeggcrs will be present at kick­off time next Nov. 8, DON FOSKETT 
Ooyfon 
Nearly a hundred persons were on hand for the chicken-in-the-rough party staged by the club on June 7. Plenty of chicken, beer, a good quartet and the best crowd in local club history were the component parts. BILL HOYNE and DICK POHL put in many hours preparing for the party. The telephone committee worked exceptionally well, bringing out some old faces who had long been absent. 
Dallas 
The club sponsored an address by DEAN MANION before the Dallas Bar Association, June 14. Dean 
Committee members who promoted the recent Monte Cario party staged by the­Manion*s subject was "Morals and the Law." There Fort Wayne Club on June 25. are. (left to right): Frank WemhofL Ed Oisser. Tom were many members of the Dallas Club and more Suelzer. Louis Fox. Jim McArdle', and Bob Centlivre. who' senred os general chairman. than two hundred attornej-s present for this lecture. Also on the committee were Bemie Ifiezer. Jerry ODowd and Dick Scheele. 
OSCAR A. FOX, '07. The party vt-as given on the spacious grounds and gardens and surrounding the suimming pool at Mrs. Fox's home. It u-as a huge success, socially and, incidentally, financially. 
Our guests included HARRY G. HOGAN, our national president, and the graduating scnion from Fort Wayne: JOHN L. GOOD, BERNARD E. GOTTA, JOHN E. LILL, JAMES E. McCLI.X­TOCG , DONELLY P. McDONALD, JR., CHARLES P. POINSATTE and .ALBERT E. YOUNGHAUS. BER.NARD M. NIEZER 
Fox River Valley 
The club held its first meeting, after a lapse of a number of jvars, April 14, at tlie St. Andreu-s Countrv Club. The meeting, of course, was held in celebration of the Universal Night. 
There vfcre forty members present from this area which includes all between Aurora on the south. Crystal Lake on the north and Sycamore on the west and Wfaeaton on the east. After a very fine dinner our president, DR. PHIL HEMMING, called the meeting to order. A board of directors u-as ap­pointed and consisted of the follou-ing men: CLAR­ENCE RUDDY, of Aurora, CHARLES CASE, of Wheaton. PAUL FUNK, of Elgin, VERNON KNOX, of Crystal Lake, and LEN FRETT, of Aurora, the member at large. 
Our president appointed the following to the £\Tnu Committee: WILLIAM CHAWGO, of Aurora, ROLAND SCHLAEGER, of Elgin, VER­NON KNOX, of Cr>3tal Lake, and CHARLES CASE, of Whcaton. 
President Hemming next reported on the week­end spent at the Uni\*ersity last fall when the plans of the school and the alumni were discussed. The report was well recei\-ed and all agreed that there should be a closer endeavor of activity between the two. 
After the meeting a movie, sent to us by the Public Relations department at school, was shown by ED PHALAN 
The dub had a meeting of the oflicen, directors and IVogram Committee members June 25, at DR. PHIL HEMMING'S home in Elgin to arrange for a summer golf outing and stag dinner, to be held in August. Present students are being invited. 
BILL CHAWGO 
Indianapolis 
The dub started the summer sodal season with its annual formal dance at Westlake Terrace on June 19. Some three hundred couples attended the <iance; it had all the atmosphere of the old school proms, complete with leather bound programs and brought back memories of dances at the Palais Royale years ago. 
Alamni of the Kentncky Clllb Bttend tkdr first annual retreat in May at the Abbejr of GethsemaiiL IVont m r (left to licht): Jt e 

.Cfistello, IMher Kanrioe, Dr. Charles Menm, 
E. P. Moran. Second row: Jim Carrico, Bende BowIInK. Third niw: Fan! Tafd, Jr., Jakm Bannon, John Daot. IVmith row; Kank Bloemer, Jr., Jadlc McKenna, Bill Wutiau. Fifth nw : Cari Ratteman, Jim Carter, Walt Kmney. Sixth row: Dr. X. Casper, Otto MU­eti, Jessie DolL 
The next function on the summer agenda was the annual golf toiumament at the Highland Golf and Country Club on Aug. 9, followed by a steak dinner. ED CUNNINGHAM was general chairman. 
The dub is running special trains to several of the games next fall. More information later. 
Weekly noon luncheons are still being held each Tuesday at the Canary Cottage. NICK CONNOR 
Kenfucky 
The observance of Universal Notre Dame Night in Apnl brought to a close one of the most success­ful years in the long history of the Kentucky Qub. Under the able leadership of our past preddent, TOM BULLEIT, a great number of activities were accomplished, highlighted by two Communion Break­fasts, the annual stag outing, dub trips to the Purdue and Northwestern games, a dance in co­ordination with the Kentucky-Notre Dame basket­
ball game, and restmiption of our bowling league. 
Biahop Francis J. Haas of Grand Bapids and Her. Francis P. Covanaugh* CS.C^ dean of Ihe College of Arts and Letters, were the chief guests at the TJniTetsal Notre Dame Ifight dinner sponsored by the Grand Rainds Qub on April 14. Both ore shown at the head table. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

The bowUi^ season was brought to a dose with the team championship going to Dillon Hall. The members comprising the victorious team were: Captain BILL MORROW, JIM CARRICO. LARRY ANBREY, JOE BUCKLER, JIM MEAGHER, PAUL TAFEL, and OTTO MILETI. Lyons, Sorin, and St. Ed%vard*s followed the leader in that order. In the tournaments following league play CHARLES MARGUET copped the singles title and CHARLEY MORROW and PAT GREENE won the doubles. The bowlim; league was one of the most successful dub activities of the ^ear because it succeeded in gettii^ out old members who had been \ery inactive and also in finding new ones. 
Our new president, BILL WOERNER, is wasting no time in keeping our dub a very active one. We had our first annual week-end retreat at the Abbey of Gethsemani, the last week of May. On Jtme 8 we hdd onr quarterly Communion Breakfast at St. Mary Magdalen Churdi which was well attended by . both alumni and students. 
To keep in doser contact with the student dub at Notre Dame, JACK McKENNA was appointed liason officer to coordinate wherever possible the activities <A both dubs. It was with this coordination in mind that a summer dance was hdd on June 20 at the lUdmiond Qub. A capadty crowd of 150 couples attended. 
O

BILL BOSLER, founder and first president of the Kentucky dub, is \-ery ill and needs the prayers of an his friends. Bill is without a doubt our most active and loyal member and one of Notre Dame's most ardent alumni. We deeply hope that his Notre Dame friends will not forget him when he needs them most. OTTO J. MILETI 
(BiU Bosler died after this was ivritten. R. I. P. -Ed.) 
Milwaukee 
Higfali^t of Qub activity for August was the annual dinner dance at the North Shore Country Qub, Aug. 2. 
The Laetare Medal awarded for 1947 will be presented to William George Bruce, outstanding Catholic layman, at a testimonial dinner on Sept. 9 at the Hotd Schrocder. The dinner is sponsored by the dub, tmder the direction of CHARLES 0*NEILL.' Several Catholic organizations and d\ic groups have requested that they be permitted to partidpate in honoring Mr. Bruce. 
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., president of . Notre Dame, has been a regular visitor to Mil­%iraukee. He and ROBERT HAXflLTON, alumni governor for Wisconsin, recently conferred with TOM DDCON and CHARLES O'NEILL and officers of the Bruce Publishing Co. concerning plans for the presentation of the Laetare Medal. Father Cava­naugh was also an inspiring speaker at a recent convention of Young Republicans here. 
Dnrii^ the past >-ear-the dub has been happy to rccdye se\-era] members transferred from other dttes. Among these men are CLIFFORD BUCK­LEY. '41, JOHN LINNEHAN, '40, ED HUFF, *40, JOHN STAUBER, '42, HAROLD LANGTON, '38. FLOYD SULLIVAN, '40, and HENRY GARVEY, '40. 
' JOHN CLAUDER, former dub president, is con­ducting the annual football, ticket activity. 
Evenii^ meetings on the first Tuesday of each month are now being hdd at the Knights of Colum­bus Qub. Our thanks to the Knights for giving us a regular meeting place. At the last mecu'ng, mem­bers beard an interesting presentation of labor prob­lems by John Kluwin, labor mediator and outstand­ing attorney. 
LimdKon meetings at the Maryland Hotd every Thursday are being attended by many of the alumni. 
BEN DE LA HUNT surprised us recently by tellii^ tts that he is leaving to study theology in the Seattle diocese in preparation for Holy Orders. 
Partidpation of alumni in community activities, often recommended by the Alumni Assodation, was recently exemi^ed by CHARLES O'NEILL who served as spi^Ksman for the Catholic laymen at a meeting of the Y. W. C. A. Teen-Agers. The poup discussed "Bridges Between Groups Who Differ." Other speakers were a Jewish rabbi and a IVesbyterian minister. NEAL J. GLEASON 
Volume 25, No. 4, August, 1947 
The Notre Dome Club of Eostem Kansas met in Learenworth. Kona., to absarra UniTersol Notre Dcmie Night on April 14. Dan Foley. '23, who sent along this j^etore of the group, said that the dub wos planning a picnic at the Joe 03ryan nmcfa at 
Kottville. Kans. 
Norfhern California 
The revived club had a dinner-meeting of officers and directors on May 19 in the Olympic Qub. Numerous questions with regard to membership, tenure of office of the officers, dues, and dub funds were discussed and decisions made. The group voted that SLIP MADIGAN should be em­powered as a committee of one to select his own organization to conduct a tour to the U.S.C.-NJ>. 
! in Los Angeles, on Dec. 6. 

New Jersey 
At the Board meeUng May 26, DAN O'NEILL wu named chairman. ScversJ suggestions were for­warded to increase attendance at general meetings of the club. It V.-3S proposed that the president appoint a program director and name at the next meeting the chairmen for all activities throughout the coming club year. An actiWties schedule will be prepared and distributed. Dues were also dis.* cussed. 
RAY GEIGER, newly-appointed alumni governor for New Jersey, reported on the national alumni association's gubernatorial sj-stcm. 
PETE QUINN, who had been appointed to in­\-estigate the possibility of running a spedal train of alumni to the Army game, reported that on the basis of a survey he had made the prospects were good that sufficient eligible Jersey alumni would be interested to fill a train. 
In accordance with the new policy of selecting all e\-ents chairmen at the beginning of the club year, the membership appro%'ed the following nominations of President Melinkovich: TOM HOGAN, Fresh­man Welcome; PETE QUINN, Raffle; BILL SMALL, New Year*s Eve Dance; JIM PAGAN, Communion Breakfast; FRANK McDERMITT, Universal Notre Dame Night; and TOBEY KRA­MER, Day at the Shore (1948). 
At a meeting of the Board of Directors on June 25, TOM HOGAN, chairman of the Freshman Wel­come, outlined tentative plans for the affair, which will probably be held Sept. U. Local alumni, speakers from the University and members of the Class of '47 tvill be asked to attend. The affair will also be the occasion for welcoming new alumni, who have already been inWted to participate in the club's activities. 
On George's suggestion, the club will hav*e a month^s mind Mass said for Father O'Donnell on the campus. 
Letters from HARRY HOGAN and JIM ARM­STRONG in answer to a request from the club ffir a clarification of University club relations and the new gubernatorial system were read and received a favorable response. Invitations have been issued to both to speak at a fall meeting. 
BILL CARTER, '47, in his capadty as program director, was invited to talk over plans for the coming club year with the Board of Directors at its July 28 meeting. 
BILL SMALL, is selecting his oonmiittee and malung arrangements for the New Year's Eve Ball, which is expected to be the club's outstan<fii^ social e\-ent of the year. RUSS JANDOU 
New York City 
We had a very pleasant visit on "{Resident's Night" with FATHER CAVANAUGH, and at the same time announcement was made to the effect that our Trust Fund had made two rather substantial donations to the University. 
We were all grieved to learn of the death of FATHER O'DONNELL. In addition to sending a resolution to the University, the Board of Governors arranged to have a memorial Afass said for Father O'Donnell at St. Patrick's Cathedral on July 12. 
Two important things have happened with respect to both of the vice-presidents of the dub. ED BECKMAX very proudly announced that as of September his son will enter Notre Dame as a fresh­man. He is very proud of this and it is interesting to note that this is the third generation Beckman to attend Notre Dame. Ed graduated in 1916 and his father before him was a student at Notre Dame. 
' MARTIN' CALLAGY, who is ilw'a nce-^raidcat of the dob, aad who was for' several ion m Domestic KdatioM Qmrtjwiie ia Ne»"yofi[,-.kai jnst bees named diief :cnuisc! for tlie.'Legal ;Aiil Soctetr of New YoA. r 
. Under diurmansliip ot OOIMAS (ySHAlTGH-NESSY; aided and alietted by BOB HAMILTON re|iresenting tlie Tnist. Fund Comnuttee, .Ike. <Ub and tbe Trust Fund Comnuttee will 'ran a joint trip 'to South Bend'for die Army game. -Arranse­ments. have been made for AiDman car sleeping accommodations - through toSonth Bend,'vnth'per­mission to sidetrack the cars and me them as hotd accommodations for. the wedc-chd, the trmn leanng New YaA Friday .afternoon and retnrmns Sunday evening. Acconfiig to Cohnan the'lag rash is oa. for reservations. 
As usual, the Trust Fund Committee-will. have, an activity for the scholarship fnikd and its.'other related charitable activities, whidi will be coedncted under the guiduoe of BOB HAMILTON aini Ui' able committee. JOHN HOYT, JK. 
RESOLUTION, SPECIAL BIEETING, BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF .^ NOIRE DAME CLUB OF NEW YORK . 

Whereas, the Board of Governon of Ae Notre Dame CUb of New York has aoted with prafound r^ret the death of The Revctcad J. Hn ^ OOiMndl, C.S.C, former Btesdeu at the University of Notre Dame, oa Jnae 12, 1947, and 
Whereas, Father ODouell was asmciated with Notre Dame and the Coegngatioa of Ho^ Crois for nver thirty-five years, as a smdeat at the University, as a Vnlamw, as Viee-nesideBt and as nesdent, aad. 
Whereas, he guided Notre Dame thrau^ dtt war years and shaped the Umversity fife to conform with Natioaal-defense drmaadt, aad 
Whereas, he was, -along with other : of the Congregation, instrumental ia estabGshias a Naval Trmaing ftogram at the Umvonty during Worid War H, and 
Whereas, his great leadership and peiestly fife' exemplified the highest ideals in society and ia particular in Cstholic educational codes. 
The Board of Governon of the Notre Oaaie Club of New York submits the forgoing' me­morial to the family of the late Revcrcad J-Hugh ODoandl, to the Trustees of Notre Dame, to the Faculty, to the students aad to the Coagregatioa tt Holy Crass aad offers the folkiwing resolntionr 
This photograph, taken June 12 ia Ptovidesc*. R. I. abowaBer. Joba I. Cavaaaai^ C.S.C, president of the VniTenitr. beiag uitnnalulatod bj loha J. MeLangfclia. president of the Notre Dame Clnb ot Bhod* Idaad and SoaAeartaia McMtiiAusetls. after receiving cm honorary degree and defirariDg AM ^ 11 reiiieiil addre« at 
ProTidence College. Shown are: (left to right) Heo. M m O. Portoce. goTwaaa of Bhode Idcmtl. John McLaughlin, Father Caraaaogh. Indg* lebert E. Qiiimi. iiMiiriiile justice, Superior Court and former goTomar of Bheda Wpad, a ^ riiiiijieMiBiiii leka 
E. Fogaity. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

24 
"RESOLVED, That a copy of such memorial be included in the record of the proceedings of the Board of Go\-emois of the Notre Dame du b of New York and tJiat a copy of same, under the Seal of the Notre Dame Club of New York be sent to Father O'Donncll's Family, to the Superior General of the Holy Cross Con­gregation, to the Trustees of the University and to the President of Notre Dame." 
JOHN A. HOYT, JR.. 
Secretary 
New York, N, Y. June 13, 1W7 

S. E. Connecticuf 
Members of the club met on July 18 to plan the annual outing set for Aug. 23 in Boemmel's Grove. Officers of the club include JOHN G.ALLA, president and NICK LANESE, vice-president. 
St. Louis 
BISHOP O'HARA, CS.C. recently \-isited the dty attending the consecration ceremonies of Bishop Cody. At the same time, FATHER GER.-^LD PHE­LAN, director of the Mediaeval Institute at Notre 
Rev. Harold W Biley, C£.Cv (rigM end, second row) worn the retreot moster as 
Dame, was guest lecturer at St. Louis University for 
the Washington. D. C^ club had its retreat at Hblr Cross College on June 27-29. 
a period of six daj^. A send-off dinner was arranged 
for Father Phelan by club president FRED WEBER BeT. Bernard E. Bansing, CS. C superior of Holf Cross College and chaplain oi the and JOE McGLYNN. Those in attendance in­club, is the other priest in the picture. cluded Rev. Patrick J. O'HoUoran, S.J., president of St. Louis Unii-ersity, DICK MUCKERMAN, DR. BERT COUGHLIN, DR. DAN SEXTON, JIM year are as follows: JOHN McINTYRE, '31, presi­was followed by some excellent moving pictures of HILL, FRANK ROTH, BILL RILEY, FRED dent, who succeeds ALBERT DOYLE; ROBERT the National P. G. A. Tournament. The movies MCNEILL, and JACK GRIFFIN. After the dinner, SWEENEY, Ml, vice-president, who succeeds JOHN %vere splendid from a technical standpoint, but every­DICK MUCKERJMN, president of the St. Louis McINTYRE; THOMAS HICKEY, JR., '35, who one ^[reed that they could not compare to the Browns, entertained the group in his newly con­succeeds ROBERT SWEENEY as treasurer; and interesting exhibition put on by club members during structed private box at Sportman's Park. the afternoon. FRAN MESSICK 
FRANCIS MESSICK, '30, secretary, who succeeds WILLIAM BRODERXCK, *27. The new directors Durii« the first week in July, BOB HELLRUNG elected for the term 1947-1950 were: DR. ROBERT 
arranged for a requiem Mass to be said at the new BRYAN, '38, THOMAS HICKEY, JR., '35, JAMES Tri-Sfafe Cathedral for the late REV. HUGH O'DONNELL, LAHEY. '38, and FRANCIS MESSICK, '30. JAMES CS.C. The first sunmier outing of 1947 for club mem­
LAHEY was elected to sen-c the remaining term of the late ROBERT FITZSIMMONS, '33. 
bers was held at the Princeton Country Club, Prince­The annual Club picnic was scheduled for July ton, Ind., on June 26, with FRANCIS HENNE­27 at CORLEY'S farm .. . a beautiful place that On June 24, the club held its annual golf party BERGER dub president, acting as chairman, and 
includes pool, tennis courts, Ijall field and plenty of at the South Bend Country Club. was  MILLER A tournament 
 The program ART as co-chairman. golf 
green lawn space. FRANK POLLNOW was top-in charge of JACK MOULDER, and a great deal was held for which prizes were awarded to SONNY kick of the entire affair, assisted by ROLAND of credit is given to Jack and his able assistants for SANDERSON, Jasper, Ind., and LYLE MILLER, DAMES, *t\RTY HUGHES, DR. BERT COUGH­
a fine program and an exceptionally good time. of Vincennes, Ind., for high and low scores respect-LIN and ED OLSEWSKL The GRIESEDIECK 
n-ely. Fifty attended. Following the tournament a BROS., ED, BOB, and BILL, took care of the An afternoon of golf was followed by a delicious diimer party was held. liquid refreshments, naturally! And former prexy, chicken dinner. After the dinner, JOHN McIN­
AL RAVARINO, supph'ed his favorite dish—spa­TYRE, new president, outlined the job ahead for This meeting, in addition to being the first summer ghetti. JIM O'NEAL the club in 1947-1948. FATHER JOHN H. 
outing, was also the first meeting of the board of 
MURPHY, CS.C , «ce-prcsident and Capt. A. L. 
directors of the newly formed corporation, named 
Danis, commanding the NROTC unit at Notre 
the Tii-State Notre Dame Club. Directors present Dame, both gave brief talks. 
St. Joseph Voffey 
at this first meeting were the following: EDWARD 
E. MATTHEWS, BERNARD WITUCKL RALPH 
On June 23 the officers and directors of the club Followng the dinner program golf prizes were 
F. HEGER, FRANCIS J. HENNEBERGER, BER­met to elect four new directors as well as a new distributed to the good golfers present and several NARD UNDERRINER, LYLE E. XnLLER, and staff of dub officers. The jtiew officers for the current dubs carried home an award for sincere eilort. This WILLIAM BR.\DBURY. 
FRANCIS HENNEBERGER acted as chairman of the meeting, and EDWARD E. MATTHEWS as secretary." The following were elected as officers: FRANCIS HENNEBERGER, president; BERNARD WrrUCKI, wee-president; EDWARD E. MAT­THEWS, secretary; and BERNARD UNDER­RINGER, treasurer, r WILLIAM T. FITZGERALD was requested to prepare a set of by-laws appropriate for the corporation. 
The following committees and their chairmen were appointed: Membership, BOB LAMEY; Finance, BERNARD UNTJERRINGER; Religion and CiUzen­ship; JIM McQUAID; Job counseling, RUDY STURM; Preparatory school contacting, . JOE O'KANE; and PubUcity and public relations, PETE THOLE. 
The highlight of the e\-ening was a speech by the Honorable WILLIAM T. FITZGERALD, attorney of EvansviUe. Mr. Fitzgerald discussed the past successful athletic season and outlined Notre Dame's prospects for 1947. 
Plans were tentatively formulated for the next meeting of the dub in Jasper, Ind., during Sep­tember. 
Any Notre Dame men, students, ex-students, or 
Rochester Club shown at the close o{ their retreat May 25. 1947. Twenty-four mem­alumni who reside in the tri-state area and are not ber* attended the retreat held at Seneca Lake near Genera, N. Y. members of the dub ate urged to contact EDWARD 
Volume 25, No. 4, August, 1947 2S 
E. MATTHEWS, 712-C Southeast First St., Evans­
ville, Ind.; telephone: 4-9162. EDWARD E. MATTHEWS 
Wasftingf on, D. C. 
The second annual retreat of the club vvas held at Holy Cross College, from June 27-29. REV. HAROLD W. RILEY, C.S.C., of the North Easton, Mass., Mission Band was retreat master. 
On both Saturday and Sunday the retreatants atended a Mass for the repose of the soul of FATHER HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C. 
Fifteen members of the club attended this function and it was the unanimous opinion that FATHER RILEY did a wonderful job. FATHER RANSING, the club's chaplain and the superior of Holy Cross College, was a most generous, hard-working host. The priests. Brothers, Seminarians and Nuns pro­\*idcd the spiritual inspiration and hospitality so truly a mark of the Congregation of Ho ^ Cross. 
The attendance at this function showed 100 per cent increase over the previous year, and it is^ ex­pected that this most worthy activity will become the outstanding event of the club's calendar year in the years to come. 
About sixty couples attended the summer dance and cocktail party given by the club on June 15 in the Carlton Hotel. JOHN KENKEL, chairman of the committee, assisted by HAL RODDY, AHLES QUAIL, JR., ROBERT SCHELLENBERG, and WILLIAM SYRING, ^v-as highly commended for his part in putting on one of the most enjoyable e\-ents in dub history. Ten members of the campus club were present with their dates. 
ROBERT W. GAVANAUGH was elected chairman of the Board of Governors of the club, at a regular meeting of the Board. 
Any Notre Dame Alumnus in the District of Co­lumbia who desires to become associated with the Washington Club may do so by contacting HAROLD V. BOISVERT, 5ecretar>-, on DI-5650. 
HAROLD V. BOISVERT 
WisconSfit—So. Cenfral 
On July 26 the dub held its summer outing at the Stoughton Country Club. Some 120 members and their guests turned out for the affair. JOHN 
P. TURLEY, professor of Latin, represented the University. He showed the group two films, one, the Notre Dame campus scenes, and the other, the football highlights of 1946. MAURICE LEAHY was chairman of the highly successful affair. 
IN MEMORY OF FR. O'DONNELL 
(Continued from Page 14) 
"A great man has passed away and you and we have lost a true friend. Will you be kind enough to express to Father O'Donnell's relatives our deep­est sympathy." 
MR. and MRS. L A. O'SHAUGHNESSY 
"I felt impelled to make a few remarks on the floor of the House and, in connection with those re­marks, I inserted the story of his life that appeared in Friday's South Bend "Tribune." I said at that time that in the passing of Father O'Donnell we have lost one of the truly great men of our times and at a time when we can ill afford to lose them. A copy of the 'Record' is coming under separate cover.'* (Congressman) ROBERT A. GRANT 
"I convey to you and to your assodates, and to the University, my deepest sympathy in the death of Father Hugh O'Donnell. I did not know that Con­gressman Bob Grant intended to speak and insert some information in the 'Record' or I should have liked to add to his remarks at the time they were placed in the 'Congressional Record.' " 
(Congressman) JOSEPH P. O'HARA 
"The death of Father O'Donnell which brought to a dose a life-time of active service for others in God may well be looked upon as the key which will open the treasures of the Divine Heart of Jesus since it is espedally significant that He chose this month to call His futhful servant to KmscU." MOTHER MARY TERESA, SERVANT OF MARY 

"I have known most of the presidents of our great University. All of them were fine men oC high character and excellence in education and in religious fer\'or. Father O'Donnell was outstanding among them. The splenflid work he did in buildii^ the University to greater standing and to increased usefulness in service always will be a golden pa^e in the history of this remarkable American educational institution. That the work he promoted will con­tinue and grow in \'alue and influence is assured and is the most appropriate memorial with which his memory* can be honored.** 
F. A. MILLER, President and editor, SOUTH BEND "TRIBUNE" 
''I have just learned of the passing of the Rev. 

J. Hugh O'Donnell >-csterday, 12 June 1947. I extend to you, Father O'Donnell's friends and asso­ciates, and the alumni of the University of Notre Dame my deep and abiding sj'mpathy. 
"Father O'Donnell u-as loved and highly respected by all who were privileged to know him. His life of unselfish ser\-ice and devotion will long remain an inspiration. I join with his relati\-es, host of friends, and admirers throughout America in mourn­ing his loss. He was truly a great man." 
FLEET ADMIRAL C. W. NnvflTZ 

"Returning last Saturday from the meeting of American Aledical Assodation, I learned with deep regret of the death of Father J. Hugh O'Donnell. He has had a distinguished career and hxs death represents not only a loss to your University and to your Congregation, but to the cause of Catholic education." DR. IRVIN ABELL 
"We are having masses said here and the entire group is offering their prayers for the repose of his soul." MARK MOONEY, President, 
N. D. CLUB, CENTRAL N. Y. 

"It \%-as a tremendous shock to all the members of the Cindnnati Notre Dame Alumni Club to learn of the death of Father O'Donnell. We know that his passing is a great loss to the uni\-ersity and we know that he will be greatly missed by all of his fine and lo>-al friends." 
J. WALTER NIENABER, President 
"Father O'Donnell was always an inspiration to me, as I know he was to you all. His passing will no doubt Iea\'e a feeling of deep emptiness in Notre Dame, where he was such an inspiring figure for so long." JOHN MOODY 
"The passing of Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell is indeed a great loss to hb many friends. He was an educator whose life inspired thousands of students in their academic pursuits. He was outstanding not only in his chosen field but also in the activities of our nation. 
"Father O'Donnell was a true [atriot and a courageous leader. His memory will remain as a guide to future generations, and those of us in the FBI who knew and loved him are deeply grieved in the personal loss we have sustained." 
J. EDGAR HOOVER 
"In these turbulent days in the life of our coun­try and the ^vorid we can ill afford to lose such spiritual leaders as was Father O'Donnell. His contribution to the civic and spiritual life of each community* and each individual with whom he came in contact will long be remembered. No more fitting heritage could be imagined than the host of young men who were fortunate to ha\*e come under his leadership and guidance during the period of his identification with Notre Dame University." 
WILLIAM E. JENXER, U. S. SENATOR 
"Father O'Donnell has left us as great a living monument expressive of his life work as any mortal. He should be proud in death. The University stands as a continuously living and breathing achievement." 
PAUL \ULLON 
"Our prayers have been offered for the speedy repose of his prcdous soul; may Almighty God be pleased to raise up in his place another sudi lumi­nary in the fidd of Catholic education to point the way for educators and lead the present and future genentSoas of yooth am and upward to their tnic destinr." MOTHER M. IRENAEUS, 

ftesideat Mt. Mercy College, (Kttsbnr^) 

"As one who had the prnnlege of knowing ham throng official assodation and throng a persflMJ £nendship «^d i I dierish, may I expicss to yoa a>d to the oHirialdom of the Univezsitr erf Notre Dane my deep sympathy, and appfcdation of hb servica to humanity." A. J. JANATA, Assistant to the 
Resident, Univcisity-bf IIEiidis 

"My deepest sympathy to the hiaaHf of Father O'Donnell and to all of his friends at Notre Dame. The %vorid has lost, much too early, a man «dio has contributed so magnificendy to educational and reUgious thought. He will be missed by all." 
EDGAR KOBAK, Presidtnt 
Mutual Broadcastii^ System 

"I wish to take this method of expressii^ to yoa and to Notre Dame University my sympathy and r^ret at the pas^ng of this very able man. It was my privilege to have met and worked with Father O'Donnell on several occauons. He was one of the ablest and most delightful men it has been my privilege to come in contact with.'* M. O. ROSS 
IVesident, Butler Univ. 
O'HARA FELLOWSHIPS 

Names of the recipients of the Bishop John 
F. O'Hara Fellowships for the academic year 1947-48 have been announced by Rev. Philip S. MooTC, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School. These fellowships were founded in 1946 with a stmi of $5,0G0 to be set aside annually from the Alumni Fund. They are awarded to outstanding advanced graduate students in the fields of English, History, Philosophy, and Political Science. The maximum stipend is $1,000 per acade­mic year for each student. 
Students who will receive the awards arc: Redmond J. Allman, Wollaston, Mass., B.­
B.A. Boston University, 1940, working for a Ph. D. in Political Science,- John J. Glan­ville, Buffalo, N. Y., A.B. St. John's CoUege, Collegeville, Minn., 1943, MJ\ . in Philos­ophy, Notre Dame, 1947, working for a Ph. D. in Philosophy; James J. Green, Mt. Clemens, Mich., A.B. Notre Dame, 1939, working for an Mj\. in History; Rea W. Gwinn, Bristol, Mass., A.B. Notre Dame, 1942, working for an M~A. in History; Vincent P. Hogan, Port Angeles, Wash., A.B. Notre Dame, 1942, working for a Ph. D. in Political Science; Joumet D. Kahn, Cin­cinnati, Ohio, A.B. St. John's College, An­napolis, Md., 1942, Ph. L. Laval Univeisity, 
1946, working for a PhJ). in Philosophy; Martin M. McLaughlin, Portland, Ore., A.B. University of Portland, 1938, M.A. Notre Dame, 1946^ working for a Ph. D. in Politi­cal Science. 
CARDINAL MINDSZENTI 
Joseph Cardinal Mindszenti, of Hungary, 

on a brief tour of the United States and 
Canada, visited Notre Dame Jime 36 to 30. 
Cardinal Mindszenti came here from Ot­

tawa, Canada, where he attended the Ma­
rian congress. In Hungary, Cardinal Mind­
szenti is archbishop of the diocese of Eszter­
gom, which includes the national capital, 
Budapest, center of the strife caused by 
Communist attempts to take control of the 
country. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
»

THE ALUMNI 
Deiifhs 
Rev. DENNIS A. O'SHE.^, C.S.C., '10, died June 29 in the Community Infirmar)', Notre Dame, after a prolonged illness. 
Father O'Shea was bom in Chicago, on Oct. 3, 1886, and was ordained at Notre Dame on June 26, 1914. He had been en­gaged in parish and chaplaincy work since his ordination. His last assignment prior to his illness was as chaplain at Villa An­thony Old Peoples Home, Comstock, Mich. 
Funeral services were conducted in Sacred Heart Church on the campus with Rev. Patrick Haggert)', C.S.C., as celebrant. Sur­viving are a brother and sister. 
JOSEPH F. REBILLOT, '91, Canton, O., "dean" of the Notre Dame graduates of Stark County, died on June 10, at the age of 76. 
Mr. Rebillot, who was a staunch Notre Dame booster since graduation and a sub­scriber to The Ave Maria since his under­graduate days, is survived by his widow, four sons and four daughters. 
Dr. ROLLAND A. CASE, ex '93, Cleve­land, O., one of the early American pioneers in physiotherapy, died May 23, in his home. 
For many years Dr. Case operated the Cleveland Physiotherapy Clinic at his home. He was graduated from the Homeopathic College in 1900 and the Cleveland College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1901. Until two years ago Dr. Case was in charge of the physical therapy department of Huron Road Hospital, Cleveland. Ill health caused him to resign. 
A member of many medical organizations, he was past president of Pi Upsilon Rho medical fraternity; of the Academy of Physi­cal Medicine, and was also a member of the American Institute of Homeopathy and the American Congress of Physical Therapy. Surviving him is his wife. 
J. WALTER LOSHBOUGH, '99, died June 16 in Los Angeles, Calif., where he had been visiting in the home of his daugh­ter. He had been ill for a year. 
Mr. Loshbough was bom in South Bend, on Nov. 12, 1879, and had spent the greater part of his life in this area. He was em­ployed by the Standard Oil Co. from 1917 to 1944, when he retired. 
Surviving are a son, Bernard E., '29, his daughter, who is the wife of William P. Clarke, '27, and a nephew. 
As this issue was being prepared, word came to the University of the death of WILLIAM N. BOSLER, '06, Louisville, first president of the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky and for long years one of the most devoted and active members of the club and of the Alumni Association. Further in­formation about Mr. Bosler will be avail­able for the next Alumnus. 
Just as the June Alumnus went to press word came of the death of GERARD T. DEGEN, '10, Gas City, Ind. The following information has since been received. 
Mr. Dcgen was bom in Holland in Oc­tober, 1882, came to the United States in 1892 and resided in New Jersey. In 1906 he moved to Philadelphia. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1910 and employed by the Philadelphia Electric Co. and re­mained with them until his retirement on May 1, 1945. 
He is survived by a sister and a brother, Henry P., '12, both of Gas City, Ind. 
DANIEL R. SHOUVLIN, '14, Alexan­dria, Va., died July 7 following an illness of four months. He was 58. His death was not unexpected, although it was hastened by pneumonia. He had been ill since Easter 
•with a rare blood ailment which resulted in a weakening of his body functions. 
At one time associated with the National Supply Co., Dan was a director of the War Production Board during World War II. Formerly a resident of Springfield, O., he had been doing professional engineering in Washington, D.C., prior to his illness. He was a member of the Notre Dame club in that city, and a member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. 
Surviving are his father; his widow; two sons, Roger, '41 and Dan, Jr., '42; one daughter, Patricia, who is the wife of Robert 
C. Bolz, '39; three brothers; two sisters and four grandchildren. 
Former U. S. Senator DAVID I. WALSH, LL.D., '17, former United States Senator from Massachusetts, who during the war headed the senate naval affairs committee, died June 11. 
Most Rev. MICHAEL J. CURLEY, D.D., archbishop of Baltimore, who died re­cently, received an honorary LL.D. degree from the University in 1920. 
PAUL A. LAUTERMILCH, '24, a Tif­fin, O., mechanical engineer was drowned in Lake Mohawk near Tiffin on July 11. Paul Volume 25, No. 4, August, 1947 
gave his life in a futile attempt to save his three-year-old daughter who had toppled from a rowboat while fishing in the lake.  
The tragedy struck while Paul was on his vacation. He %vas rowing ashore in the early evening when his daughter fell out of the boat. He plunged into the water after her an,d brought her to the surface. Then both disappeared according to his 10-year-old son, also a companion on the fishing trip.  
Paul was bom in Tiffin on Aug. 1, 1900. After receiving his mechanical engineering degree from Notre Dame, he went to work in Philadelphia. Only recently he returnedto Tiffin.  I  
He is survived by his wife, two sons,daughter, his mother, and four brothers.  a  
NORBERT A. "DUKE" CLANCY, '25, died July 4 of a heart attack in Hillsdale, Mich.  
Duke was bom in Indianapolis in 1902, and was a resident there until September of last year when he moved to Hillsdale to become secretary of the Hillsdale Chamber of Commerce and to join his father-in-law in the insurance business. While in In­ 
dianapolis he had been employed by the G.M.A.C., Consolidated Finance Co., and the Lucas Harold Co., as an insurance writer. He was also active in the Knights of Columbus.  
Dukeparents.  is survived  by his widow and  his   f j  
J. CLYDE SIMONS, '29, South Bend, died Jan. 30, 1947, after an illness of eight months.  
For fifteen years prior to December, 1946, the time of his retirement, Clyde was the owner and operator of Simons' Pharmacy in South Bend. He married Rose Moore of  
Los Angeles, whoAlso surviving arca brother.   survives, in June 1936.  his son, two sisters and  
WILLIAM M. CANNON, '33, of Roll­ing Prairie, Ind., died June 18 in St. Jo­seph's hospital. South Bend, after an illness of eleven weeks. He was 38.  
Bom in Hope Hampton, N. J., on May 24, 1909, BiU came to South Bend in 1934, where he lived until last year, when he moved to nearby Rolling Prairie. He had been an employee of the Studebaker Cor­poration and was a member of the Knights of Columbus.  
He is survived by his widow, seven chil­ 

| k dren, including two sets of twins, his mother, three brothers and a sister. 
_ WALTER F; SHEAHAN, '35, Lowell, Mass., died suddenly June 7 after ah illness of only six days. On June 1 he had suffered a heart attack. 
, A member of the firm of Thomas A. Shea­han. Inc., of Lowell, he was well-known in local business circles. 
Wally was a graduate of Keithcr academy and a member of Lowell lodge No. 87, BPOE, the Knights of Columbus, the Ex­change Club and the Holy Name Society. He is survived by his widow, his father, a son, a daughter and a sister and brother. 
ROBERT J. BODIE, '38, of Hinsdale, 111., died in his home on June 13 after an illness of four and a half months. 
Bob was bom in Chicago on April 7, 1915, At the time of his death he was vice-president in charge of sales of the Bodie-Hoover Petroleum Corp., in Hinsdale. After taking a degree at Notre Dame in science, he continued on at the University and se­cureda law degree in 1939. 
He was a member of the Illinois s;ate bar association and an army veteran of World War II, serving four and one-half years. He was in the European theater for thirty months. 
Bob is survived by his widow, Mrs. Peggy Lang Bodie, his parents and a brother. Dr. Richard C. Bodie, '45. 
MICHAEL F. SHANNON, JR., ex '39, died, as noted in the June issue of the Alumnus, on June 5 in Los Angeles, after a long illness. 
Mike, well-known in the Los Angeles area, was 30 at the time of his death. Despite the tuberculosis which finally claim­ed him, he remained an active member of the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles, and ran an automobile agency from his bed. His flaming, joyful spirit was an inspiration to all who knew him. 
Among the very large number of people who participated in the rosary recitation for Mike, fifty were members of the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles. Twenty-five members of the Club were at the funeral Mass in St. Paul's Church and four members were pallbearers: Tom -Ashe, '31, president; Bill Sidenfaden, '29; Tom Foye, '39, and Bob Huethcr, '39. 
Mike is survived by his parents and two sisters. 
MARION LLOYD HARBERT, ex '40, Boise, Ida., was killed on Dec. 29, 1946, while working on a high power line for which he and his father had the construc­tion contract. Lloyd was associated with his father and brother in the conduction of the Harbert Electric Co., a large and progres­sive electrical company in the state of Idaho. 
He is survived by his wife, two sons, a daughter, his father and mother and his brother. 
ALEX C. JERAWSKI, JR., ex '48, Cic­ero, 111., was killed in a plane crash at' Cecil Field, Jacksonville, Fla., on June 12. He had received his wings on Feb. 14 of this year. Alex was in the V-12 program at Notre Dame for a year and a half. 
As this "Alumnus" was being made into page form, word came to the Alumni Oflice of the deaths of CHARLES J. O'CON­NELL, ex. '26, Holyoke, Mass., and JO­SEPH M. O'DOWD, '28. Fischer's Store, Texas. Details will appear in the next 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to CH.\RLES E. "GUS" DORAIS, '14, on the death of his son; to FRANK J. HISS, '16, on the death of his brother; to THOM.AS H. BEACOM, JR., '20, on the death of his mother; to JOSEPH S. MOR­RISSEY, '28, on the death of his mother; to BER­NARD E. LOSHBOUGH, '29, on the death of his father; to RICHARD M.'\HONEY, '32, on the death of his father; to JAMES L. BOURKE, '33, on the death of his mother; to MILTON J. BOCK, '37, on the death of his mother; to DAVID J. CONNOR, '38, on the death of his mother; to WALTER WINE­BOLD, '40, on the death of his father; to E. LEIGHTON O'BRIEN, '42, on the death of his father. 
Engagements 
Miss Helen Mae Beatty and JOSEPH J. WALD­RON, '36. 
Miss Elizabeth Anne Harsfall and EDWARD R. ESCH, JR., '39. 
Miss Rosemarie Lubbers and GERALD A. HICKEY, '41. 
Miss Ann Ellen Farley and EDWARD J. HICKEY, '43. 
Miss Lillian Hildrith and JOHN H. BRIGHT, '44. 
Miss Genevieve Shea and WILLIAM M. HEALY, JR., '44. 
Miss Nancy Catherine Mcintosh and HARRY F. VERSEN, JR., '44. 
Miss Rosemary Ann DiSabato and JOSEPH A. TRANI, JR., '46. 
Marriages 
Miss Dorothy Lillian Lee and WILLIAM F. ARMIN, '28, Chicago, July 31. 
Miss Lorraine L Carroll and J. HAROLD RODDY, '33, Washington, D.C., October 26, 1946. 
Miss Patricia Mary Delehaunty and JOHN J. MORAN, '36, Pituburgh, Pa., July 26. 
Miss Agnes Marie Dwyer and HAROLD J. DRUECKER, '37, Notre Dame, June 21. 
Miss Beatrice Cecelia Joliat and BERNARD J. KEFFLER, '37, June 7. 
Miss Mary T. Noonan and JAMES J. COFFEY, '39, Springfleld, Mass., June 23. 
Miss Barbara Ann Sheerin and JAMES E. ROCAP, JR., '39, Indianapolis, June 21. 
Miss Anna Catherine Shields and JOHN G. ELSE, '40, Notre Dame, June 28. Ralph F. Else, '34, was best man. 
27 

Miss Elizabetli Stnin and WILLIAM C. FAY,.'40, June 19. 
Miss Mary Loms Hammer and THOMAS;.J. MINOGUE, '40, Aug. 9. . 
Miss Rose Marie Maris and JOHN A: RATIGAN. '40, Bordentown, N. J., July 3, Joe Ratigan, "36, was best man. 
Miss Marie Mavieia and KEERAN F. McKEmiY, '40, Ford City, Mo., June 23. 
Miss Mary Lots Mulholliuid and FRANCIS J. McGRODER, JR., '41, Cleveland, May 31. 
Miss Eleanor Kyne and GEORGE F. MELTZER, '41, Notre Dame, June 21. 
Miss Ruth Ekanore Burb and MATTHEW J. MIHOLICK, '41, South Bend, June 21. 
Miss Winified C. Teare and EDWARD M. WEIN­FURTNER, '42, Qeveland, June 7. 
Miss Mary Jane Richardson and JAMES E. M.ADIGAN, '43, Little Rock, Ark., ApnT 15. 
Miss Fiances Niehoff and THOMAS D. MAHER, '43, May 17. 
Miss Helen Walton Macley and JAMES F. McVAY, '43, MaishaB, Mich., June 14. 
MISS Alary Regina Bums and RICHARD G. ­SCH.AUB, '43, Wilmette, ID., June 14. 
Miss Geraldine Beaumont and ORLANDO A. BONICELLI, '44, Barrington, TO., May 24. 
Miss Martha Cedle Hayes and DANIEL C. CALLAGHAN, '44, Chicago, June 28. 
Miss Janes Frances Hannan and EARL R. ENG­LERT, '44, South Bend, Aug. 16. 
Miss Stella Marie Keating and ROBERT E. FAUGHT, '44, Detroit, June 7. 
Miss Margaret Frances Shea and JOSEPH F. GALL, '44, Nashua, N. H., June 14. 
Miss. Florence Anne Taylor and AUSTIN G* JONES, JR., '44, Brooklyn, N. Y., Oct. 18, 1946. 
Miss Patricia Daley and JOSEPH D. O'KEEFE, '44, River Forest, HI., June 14. 
Miss Dorothy Anna Shea and ARTHUR B. CON­NORS, '45, Needham, Mass. 
Miss Sheila Donovan and FRANCIS E. MALONE, 
•45, Toledo, O., July 5. 
Miss Kathryn Jane Mahoney and ANTON POJ­MAN, JR., '45, Denver, Colo., June 7. 
Miss Maxy Ann Carroll and FREDERICK IL FUNK, '46, Bay City, Mich., Jan. 4. . 
Miss Betty Louis E. Stombaugh and EUGENE L. MOLTER, '46, Goodland, Ind., July 14. 
Miss Marie Selma Eulitz and JOHN J. AGNONE, • JR., '47, South Bend, Ind., Aug. 3. 
Miss Jo Ann Beiing and JAMES P. BAILEY, '47, Houston, Tex., Aug. 2. 
Miss Gloria Mary FuDerton and DAVID J. CHAMPION, '47, Cincinnati, O., June 14. 
Miss Mary LaVonne Bums and THOMAS J. MAHONEY, '47, Virginia, ID., June 4. 
Miss Rose Marie Mehmert and WILLIAM P.. WEBB, '47, Olney, IB., June 17. 
Birfhs^ 
Cd. and MIS. RAYMOND R. BRADY, '24, an­nounce the birth of Raymond John, July 1. 
Lt. Col. and Mrs. DONALD J. WILKINS; '27, announce the birtli of Donald James, May 29. 
. Mr. and Mrs. ORVILLE E. OCKULY, '32, an­nounce the birth of John David, May 28. 
Mr. and Mis. JAMES D. ASH, '33, announce the birth o( a son, June 25. 
Mr. and Mn. ROGER P. BRENNAN, '33, an­nounce the birth of a ion, July 9. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Mr. and Mis. JOHN M. CRIMMINS, '33, an­nounce the birth of Constance Afar^aret, July 13. 
Dr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. DONOVAN, '33, an­nounce the birth of Shawn Michael, July 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. IRWIN L. GOLDMAN, '36, an­nounce the birth of William Mark, July 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. D. BERNARD HENNESSY, '34, announce the birth of Dand B., July IS. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM A. McCARTHY, '34, an­nounce the birth of Maureen. 
Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE J. O'REILLY, '35, an­nounce the birth of Kevin Patrick, July 12. 
lib. and Mrs. CHARLES J. SLOTT, '33, an­nounce the birth of Carta Jean, -May 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD G. LEJEUNE, '35, an­nounce the birth of Timothy James, March 31. 
Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE F. MOLLOY, '36, an­nounce the birth of Dennis II, March 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH W. SCHMIDT, '36, an­nounce the birth of Noreen, June 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. HOYT, '37. announce the birth of James, April 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. CARL W. DOOZ.4N, '38, an­nounce the birth of Kathleen Mary, July 29. 
Dr. and Mrs. ROBERT J. Bn-an, '38, announce the birth of a son, July 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. WALTER J. HARRIS, JR., '38, announce the birth of Kathleen, May 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. M. RICHARD BURKHOLDER, *39, announce the birth of Robin Lynn, March 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. CORNELIUS J. KVASNAK, '39, announce the birth of Robert Neil. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN P. AfULDERIG, '39, an­nounce the bh-th of John Francis, June 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. COLE, '40, announce the birth of Carol Ann, June 2. 
Mr. and Mis. VINCENT A. DOYLE, '40. an­nounce the birth of Christopher, July 10­
Mr. and Mis. JOSEPH E. BROUSS.\RD, II, '41, announce the birth of Mary Louise, June 13. Clyde E. Broussard, '13, is the grandfather. 
Mr. and Mis. JOSEPH E. CASEY, '41, announce the birth of Patrick Joseph, April 2. 
Mr. and Mis. LEROY J. WIESCHHAUS, '41, announce the birth of a son, June 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM R. HOUSE, '42, an­nounce the birth of Mary Michele, July 25. 
Mr. and Mis. RICHARD E. McHUGH, '42, an­nounce the birth of Richard Thomas. May 21. 
Dr. and Mrs. J. THOMAS MANGAN, '43, an­nounce the birth of Michael Daniel, June 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. DALLAS A. MILEM, '43, announce the birth of a daughter, June 10. 
Mr. and Mis. THOMAS W. PERRY, '43, an­nounce the birth of Patricia Ann, June 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS W. KANE, JR., '45, announce the birth of Thomas W. IH. July 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN BURKE O'DONOGHUE. '45, announce the birth of Deidre Garris Mar>', July 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. DAVID A. WALSH, '45, announce the birth of Mark Michael, May 26. 
Mr. and Mis. ALFRED M. TRUEAX, '46, an­nounce the birth of William Robert James, May 5. 
Mr. and Mis. JOHN O. ROBINSON, '47. an­nounce the birth of Charles Joseph, July 16. 
Mr. and Mis. THOMAS G. WACK. '47, announce the birth of a son, July 29. George J. Wack, '23, is the grandfather. 
PBESIDENT OF CHA 
At the recent 32iul annuod conTen­

tion oi the Cotholic Hospital Auoda­
tion the BL Ber. Migr. Maurice F. 
Griifin. '04. IXJ). '22. pastor of SL 
Philomena's Church. East CleTeland. 
O.. was elected presidenL 
Monsignoi Giiifin was on the orig­

inal executive conunittee of the CHA 
and had been its vice-president for 
17 years. He is likewise an important 
figtire in the American Hospital Asso­
ciation. 
Personals 
 John A MacNamora, 1890-99 Rev. Joseph Berths, 
St Mineral Mt Clemens, Mich. From FATHER MAC: 
**I'in sorry I haven't neu-s from the gay '90s, but that's to be expected at this time of the stunmer. I W3S delighted to get the message from the old timers who attended reunion and Commencement and I apprcdate it very deeply. ^\liile I couldn't be on the old campus ph>-3ically I was there In spirit; you may be sure." 
 E. Sanford. 501 Cherry 

1915 James 
SL V^nnetka. UL 

From JIM SANFORD: "In addition to FATHER DOLAN and FATHER HEALY members of the class who attended the funeral of FATHER HUGH O'DONNELL were RAY EICHENL.AUB, JOE FARRELL and JIM S.ANFORD." 
1017 ^-^- ^°''' ^^ ^ T"" ^*-' ^''*'> 
1 7 I # Bend. Ind. BERNIE VOLL recently heard from MATT TRUDELLE, who gi\-es his address as 720 E. ^fcDowell Rd., Phoenix, Ariz. Matt said he has been down in Arizona for three years and likes the climate very much. He had intended to come back for the reunion last May but his office was filled with all kinds of architectural work, so much so that it has prevented him from e\*en getting a \'acation this year. 
 B. Ward. 458 Spring St. 

1920 Leo 
Los Angeles 13, Calif. 

From LEO WARD: 
FATHER FRANT: GOODALL spent se\-eral days in Los Angeles \'isiting relatives, during which time several members of the class of 1920, as well as other Notre Dame alumni, had the pleasure of \-isiting with him. We had him for luncheon at the Los Angeles Athletic Club, others present being OSCAR SIDENFADEN, ED McMAHON, GENE KENNEDY, CLARENCE DERRICK, TOM ASHE, president of the' Los Angeles Notre Dame Club. LARRY OTT. Lay Trustee T. B. COSGROVE. BILL COOK and GENE CALHOUN, secretary of the Club. It was on short notice and such fellow classmates as CHUCK McIVER, now with Pittsbuig Steel, could not be present because of previous ap­pointments out of the city. And JIM GLYNN who had expected to be present, also had to.gQ.^ Mexico on business for his firm, Anchor-Hocking Glass Co. 
FATHER GOODALL, now vice-president of Port­land University, and GENE KENNEDY related stories about their experiences in India., Gene's, of course, being with the Army Troop Transport Service and Father Gooflall's being in connection w^th the Ben­gal Missions at Dacca. Father Goodall had seen FATHER TOM TOBIN in Portland before coming to Los Angeles and told us about the death of ELLIE MOORE. Father Tobin Sew to Stui^, &iich.. to preach the funeral sermon. Father Good­all %vas present in South Bend for the conseciation of BISHOP GRANER and had returned to Portland 
and %vas on his Hay back for the ordination of theseveral Holy Cross priests.  ^_ ^ ^  
1923 Paul H. Costnor. 1305 W. Arling­ton ATO­ SL Pcnil, Iffinn.  
From PAUL CASTNER: I had a most pleasant surprise last week in a telepboDe caO from DICK NASH. He was in the T*nn Cities with Mrs. Nash and came to my home for a 'chin-fest.' Dick looked fine, but complained that he couldn't eat everything he ate as a freshman in 1919.  
I got up-to-date on Commencement and we talked over plans for the 25-ycar reunion next year: I don't know the official source of authority I may haxe in appointing committees for the reunion but in absence of any rules against it, I hereby appoint DICK NASH, JOHN MONTAGNE and ED GOULD as a committee of three to start a cam­paign to get as many as possible back next year. They have some valuable data givTn to them by KID ASHE, secretary of the '22 class who brought together a record turnout for their 25th reunion this ^Tar.  
So you have the green light Dick, John and Ed—^you'll all be hearing from them soon. Any class members in Chicago or passing through there get in touch with them. Dick is in the contract* ing business, John helps Col. McCormick run the "Chicago Tribune," and Ed is Chicago's leading florist.  
In getting some of my notes up-to-date, I msh to report a nice visit the Castner's had with the JOE NYIKOS. Joe lives in South Bend, where he is one of the leading legal lights. It seems to me that Joe should head-up a working committee in South Bend for the reunion. Will the committee of three from Chicago contact Joe in South Bend?  
Another recent pleasant surprise came in the form of a letter from BILL VOSS. He is sales manager for Scully-Jones and Co. His address is 1901 S. Rockwell St., Chicago. Bill got to Com­mencement this year after an absence of several years due to the war. Bill's oldest daughter wilt be a junior at St. Catherine's College, St. Paul, this fall. Jackie, his second daughter, starts as a freshman at Marquette this fall and Bill, his son, is a sophomore in high school. Bill, Sr., reports that Bill, Jr., is as tall as he is, a left-hander and a ball player destined for the major leagues.  
BiU talks about SPIKE FLINN and I leading %nth our chins, "qualif>ing the Sea Bees as panty waists." Then he goes on to make this statement 'T o the best of my knowledge HENRY BARNHART and JACK NORTON are the only eligible bachelors left from the class of '23." Ma>i>e RED SHEA may be interested in checking up on Bill's rules of eligibility?"  
Through the grapevine I learn that ED KREIMER was a Grandpa before GEORGE PATTERSON by a few months. Even though Ed Ii\'es in South Bend, it's harder to get news from him than it was to get a hundred from BROTHER CYPRIAN in accounting. JOE NYIKOS, one of your assign­ments is to get Grandpa Kreimer to commencement next year.  
Let's hear from some of the reststart making plans for the reunion."   of  you  and  
REV. FRED MANN, a Redcmptorist from Wichi­ta, Kans., conducted a Cana Conference in South Bend on Aug. 3. Father Mann spent two >-ears at Notre Dame with the class of '23.  
1924  
JAMES KEVIN SULLIVAN, 13->ear old son of RED SULLIVAN, Milwankee, recently was re­leased from the Isolation Hospital, fully recovered from polio. He had no crippling or other bzd effects, and the Sullivans are of course humbly gratefuL  

lolis P. Hurler. The Toledo Par­1925 lor Furniture Co.. Toledo, O. 
JIM McQUERN, 1423 21st St., Canton, C , recently wrote that he was sorry he couldn't get bacil for tiw May reunion. He says that he has 
Volume 25, No. 4, August, 1947 
been employed by the Go\-ernment for the past 14 years and is at present with the Internal Re\*enue Bureau at Canton. 
BILL CERNEY, South Bend, is an industrial representative for the Huntington Laboratories, Hunt­ington, Ind. 
AL MUELLER was recently adi-anced to the 

.coast of eastern divisional sales manager for Nuodex Products Co., Elizabeth, N. J. He is living in Hills-side, N. J., with his family, after 5e\'en years in Cle^Tland. He was formerly sales manager of the North East Central region for Nuodex. Prior to joining the Nuodex Co. in 1940. AI covered the midwestern and southwestern states for five years for Jones-Dabney Co., selling grinding liquids and s>-nthetic resins to the paint industry. Before that he was empIo>-ed by LiUy Varnish Co., Indianapolis, where he was in charge of industrial sales. 
At the annual meeting of the board of directors of the Studebaker Corp., A. J. PORTA South Bend, was promoted from assistant comptroller to comptroller. 
109J L Victor F. Lemmer, Box 661, Iron­
• TA Q wood. Mich. 
ART HALEY, director of public relations at the University since 1940, has been named governor for the state of Indiana of the new Notre Dame Founda­tion. 
LARRY GRODEN toured the Philippine Islands and then went to Boston, Philadelphia and New York \*ia Honolulu and the I^nama Canal. 
At the member-guest golf tournament held at Montclai"r Golf Club, (N. J.) CHARLIE TOTTEN and JOHN ADAMS, two former Notre Dame golf captains, gained victories in the second round before being eliminated. Charlie headed the 1928 Irish golf team. 
Various national writers have given WALT TROHAN credit for "ghosting" the Jim Farley series in ''Colliers" magazine. Walter is head of the "Chicago Tribune" Washington Bureau. 

From TOM FARRELL: ". . . . A little neu-s— EDDIE BURKE, '26, is starting in the automobile —^Mercury and Lincoln—business in Perth Amboy. Hope there is still some gravy for him. Speaking of Perth Amboy—^JIM SILVER is around this section but no one seems to bump into him or hear any­thing from him. DR. GERALD HAYES dieted during Lent—losing twelve pounds, seven during in­tensi\'e application during Holy Week. He claims it wasn't worth it and doesn't intend to do it 
1927 Joseph M. Boland, Radio Station WSBT. South Bend, Ind. 
From JOE BOLAND: 

Pickings have been slim since Commencement .. . and, we're in a mid-summer slump for ne^-s. A few items—new and old—would be: 
R\ Y McCLORY has been named an assistant 

U. S. District Attorney in Chicago. 
JOHN WALLACE, EDDIE McLAUGHLIN and HARRY O'BOYLE got together for a three-way re­union in Chicago recently . . . and confirmed the fact with a ringside-table picture taken at Barney's Kfarket Club shouing the three shaking hands. O'Boyle is with Chevrolet, in Des Moines, 107 E. Fifth St. 
FRANK McCURRIE, who couldn't make Com­mencement because of illness, was named Cook County public defender some time ago—a fact you have all probably heard by now, but is inserted here in case you hadn't! 
RED HEARDEN is at Two Rivers, Wis., helping JIMMY CROWLEY prepare the Chicago Rockets 
• for the All-Amencan Conference football season. Red will begin coaching his own St. Norbert College team, at West De Pere, Wis., in September. 
And, to correct a bit of wrong information here­tofore released, JOE MAXWELL is with the Philco Company, in Philadelphia: doing an excellent job in personnel-work. 
Those are the all-tfx>-brief notes at this mid­summer writing. I might add that there isn't a hotel room to be had in South Bend or Mishawaka for the Army game; the 01i\-er, with 400 rooms, has had over 3,500 requests for them! So—if you're planning to see that game, better adjust your plans accordingly! Tickets for it, of course, won't be obtainable except through regular channels. But— I'm sure you'll have yours—so, we'll be looking for you then! 
FRANCIS W. LEARY is with the Humble Kpe Line Co. in Alice, Tex., where he is assistant superintendent. 
Attorney AL DOYLE, Afishawaka, Ind., demo­cratic city chairman since 1936, resigned recently to devote more time to his law practice. 
1928 Louis F. Buddey, Social SecuritY Administration* Bm. 400, 1100 Chester St. Cleveland 14, O. 
From LOU BUCKLEY: I stopped off in Rochelle, lU., in June to see Vince Carney and his family. Vince was \try busy in his clothing store the day before Father's day but took out enough time to introduce me to his wife and children as well as to talk over old times. Vince recendy visited CONNIE OCHOA in Mexico. He also mentioned that he met BILL KIRWAN recently in Chicago. Bill has a furniture store in Iowa City, la. 
Recently I stopped in a very attracti\-e new resuturant on Lincoln Way West, Mishawaka, Ind., and found the proprietor to be BURT TOEPP. Too ' bad the place isn't large enough to take care of the '28 twenty year reunion group next June. 
It may be a bit early to speak of the 20-year reunion in 1948, moreover, save your money for a trip to Notre Dame. The dates are June 4, 5, and 
6. I am making plans for getting out announce* meats to promote attenflance. Included in this will be a copy of the '28 class roster for each member, providing I get some additional encour^ement from you fellows. I am also considering a questionnaire to be used as a basis for preparing a short histtny of the class of '28 similtar to that published in "Life" magazine for June 16, 1947 on the Prince­ton class of '32. Let me have your reaction to these proposals. 
From BILL MURPHY: "Your requests for some information on ''Ye Olde 1928's" comes at an inopportune time since my right arm has been in a sHng. I am imable to write with it. However my sister b pinch hitting for me. 
"It was good to get back to the campus for Commencement and to see you, JOE MORRISSEY, ED McKEOWN, and the other 28's. It was m? first trip back since 1941. But I can assure you I ivould have been there more often had not Uncle Sam taken up most of my time. 
"I know MARTY RYAN and I looked forward to see the old crowd when we were stationed at Bradley Field, Conn. Sure hope our reunion next year will bring out a good crowd. If there is any­thing I can do to help the secretary in making the reunion a successful one don't hesitate to write me. 
"Haven't seen too many of the '28's lately. How­ever, at the last Chicago Club Luncheon I sat with TOM JOHNSON, and JOHN LYONS, who really belong to the '28's but graduated from Law in '29. 
"Tom put in a long siege in Uncle Sam's service and is now associated with one of the leadii^ Chicago law firms. Johnny Is also uphtJding the '28's reputation. 
"At the same luncheon I saw VERNON KNOX. who was in from McHenry. He tells me his brother BOB is back in architecture after defencUng the eastern seaboard with the Navy during the war. 
"I see in the papers where BERNARD (MUR< PHY) KORZEN, BILL KEARNEY'S room-mate, was made attorney of the Board of Election Com­missioners. So now Chicago can be assured of good dean elections. FRANK HOGAN of our class gets his name in the papers as alderman of the Sixth Ward. Have lunch occasionally with JERRY Le STRANGE of the class of '27. 
"I thiak it would be a good idem to adt A « fdlows to sead ia laggcationi oa —rV*c oar !•• union the largest ever held at Notre lla f 
"Here is an idea: Do yoa thiakMt woold be posrihie to have aQ our daxmates wbo have joianl the priesthood back for the leuaioa? We on^jt o prevaa on the Holy Cnm Fatben to let FATHER ANDY B<ULRANEY come back for Tii—imii ment." 
JOHN McMAHON was dected to the Board of the Indostrial Hygiene Foondatioa, Pittsburgh, of which he is managiag (firector. 
JUDGE JOHN T. CULUNAN, Bridgeport, Conn., has been appointed Gonnecticat's cbaiiana of the 1948 March of Dimes. 
From ELMER WYNNE: 
"It has been quite a time »nce my last appear­ance on the campus; and althottgh I was desirous of being there at the last Commenccnwnt, there %vere too many wgent problems to settle for the Cfmipany in their labor management affaixs. I hope to get back next year for the big '28, 20>ycar re-
Elmer is «rith Labor N^otiatii^ Service, a <£visioa of Safeway Stores, Inc., Denver. 
CHARLIE TOTTEN is with the Forest Lnaber Co., Pittsburgh, fo. 
JOHN FONTANA and Ftad F. Ward, secretary of the Industrial Coounission <^ CMiio, recently an­nounced the opening of their law offices in GohmJim, Ohio. 
CHARLIE LYTLE, industrial sales engineer for the Fennsi^vania Electric Co., has transferred bom Clearfield, Fa., to the eastern divisioo, with Altooaa, Fa., as headquarters. 
MARTIN CAIXAGY, New York City, fonacr Justice of the Domestic Rdattons Court and OQuaad of the criminal courts branch ol the Lqal Aid Society since eariy 1946, has been named attomey­in-diief of the Legal Aid Society. In his new poet. Bud will be in <firect charge of the Tl-year old ixganization's work of advisii^ and representing per­sons unable to afford the services td an attorney in pri%ate practice. 
JOHN ROBINSON, Hartford, Conn., is of the Associated Film Libraries and director of the educational religious program of the library. 
EDWARD J. MOWERY, staff writer for die New York '*World-Tek«ram," has been awarded a 9500 prize in the "Big Story" NBC radio series, according to a recent announcement in the "World-Telegram" and on the 12th "Big Story" scries broad­cast on June 18. 
Ed a native of LaiKaster, O., received the award "in recognition of his efforts as a reporter in dear-ii^ the late Bertram M. Campbdl, falsdy im­prisoned as a forger." 
V A^ A Jamas IL Nowary* P< O. Box 1545, 
•'A ' SluwTcpott La. 
From DICK NOWERY: The fc^¥riiv information comes from TOM JONES, Boise, Idaho: 
"Since my graduation from sdiool I have been practicing law in-Bw e and, like the rest of the Notre Dame lawyers, have been engaged in numerous activities of dvic and political nature, and vdiile I am doing these thi^s, my family is growli^ older. My oldest son Is ready for allege. 
"I think it would probaUy be of more interest to you to tell you soroethlig about the other ahunm in Idaho. JOE NETTLETON, who is one ol onr classmates, is one of the most successful raisers of livestock in Idaho. He has a very large haoendi at Murphy, and Is at the present time on the Tax Commtsuon of the State of Idaho. 
"JIM BRADY is pidJisher and owner of o w of the foremost newspapers ia Idaho, the Idaho Fall "Fbst-Regbter." PAUL KOHOUT, >25^ is aa executive officer of the Idaho Securities Life, a large insurance association here. BilKE and FRMIK NETTZEL- are the owners of and operators of a 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

chain of grocery stores and are also engaged in a finance business. JOHN MALONEY is manager and execrutive officer of a cleaning and dying establishment here in Boise. 
"MARION LLOYD HARBERT v.-as killed in a pole line accident while out with his construction company erecting a high tension power line. He is survived by his wife and three children, who re­side in Boise. 
"I have been appointed on the Board of Gover­nors, and represent Idaho in the Alumni Association, and in about six months I will be able to give you considerable information." 
BILL CROXIX, Oakland, Calif., WTites: 
"Allow me to congratulate you on your success in getting some news into the personal column for the class of 1929. I was beginning to wonder about tlie boj's and if we were d^ing a slow death. 
"I recently attended the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting of the Northern California Club and renewed many acquaintances. WILLLAM T. BYRNE, '29cr, was president of the meeting and we hashed over old times. 
"During my three years in the Na\-y I did run into JOHN NASH, a major at the Pentagon in Washington, FRANK LE.AHY who was stationed at St. Mary*s Prcflight, and even saw my old room­mate, JOE SCALES, in Chicago. Joe is working for the Chicago Sanitation Department­
al am now linng in Oakland, and working for Frigidairc Sales Corp. I would enjoy hearing from any of the old '29ers who go through. We are just across the Bay from' San Frntudsco. Say hello to C>-p, Pinkj*, and any of the rest ifor me." 
From MICKEY McMAHON, New Orleans: 
"I got my April "Alumnus" and read where you had heard from HOWARD DOLL and that he had told you I was being transferred to New Orleans. I came down here the last of February and am now in tiie process of attempting to get a house. 
"I will be delighted to see you in New Orleans, where you can locate me for the time being at 818 Whitney Bldg. and in about thirty da>^ at 624 GraWer St." 
The class of -'29, I know, will hear with deep regret the fact that CHARLES W. "BILL" HEINEMAN of Conners^-ille, Ind., and THOMAS "TOMMY" RYAN, RushviUc, Ind., lost their dads recently. Please remcaibcr them in the usual way. 
The responses to my appeal for letters from you Su>-s are getting better—keep up the good work and write me. So long until next month, and, re­member, the Twentieth Anniversary- is only two >'ears au-ay. Let's all make it. 
1930 Harold E. Duke. 4030 N. Broad St. Philadelphia. Pa. 
From LEO McALOON: 
"CONNIE SHACKETT is working here in Paw­tucket, R. I., for the Pantex Pressing Machine Corp. %fy brother, ALBERT has just been appointed co­orditiator for the juvenile court svstem here in Rhode Island." 
1931 Walter F. Phiiipp, 4 Pickwick Lcaie« Newton Square, Pa. 
JIM CARROLL, now of Qeveland, former hotel executive, has been appointed monopoly division manager of Brou-n-Forman Distillers Corp. Jim, a nati\"e of ^fichigan, has held various executive hotel positions with tiie Sheraton Corp of America and Knott Hotels Co. 
MATT GARRIG^I announces the opening of the Garrigan Insurance Agency in Detroit, 
From SriKE McADAMS: "My partner, BILL KIRBY, '32, resides at 406 Parmalee Place, Wauke­gan. III. His occupation is a lawyer and he is a partner in our law office, McAdams and Kirby, I South LaSalle St., Chicago." 
 E. Collins, 17 Trion^* 

1932 James 
Ave** Dayton 9. O. 

From JIM COLLINS: 
BADEN POWELL is the manager of station re­lations for the Mutual Broadcasting Co. in New York. He writes that he regretfully passed up the reunion because he recently took over this position after ha\-ing been in charge of audience promotion with ^lutual since returning from the Navy. 
Baden was married to the former Miss Lucy Jacl­son in St. Patrick's Rectory, New York, on Dec. 23, 19U. 
GEORGE AREHART is salesmanager for the Universal Metal Products Co., Saginaw, Afich. 
The class party after the Army game is being arranged by CLEM THEISEN, 1258 Miami Rd., Benton Harbor, Alich., who will announce final plans soon. Anyone interested is urged to write to him for any information. 
JOHN VOSS is teaching chemistry in the Junior College in Pueblo, Colo. 
JOHN BOGNAR is the owner and operator of the River Park Furniture Co. in South Bend. 
JOHN CONWAY, in Europe with the American Red Cross for the past two and a half years, ex­pected to be back in this country this summer. 
1933 
CHUCK JASKWHICH has signed as backfield coach for the Buffalo Bills of the Ail-American con­ference. JOHN NEUBAUER will finish law school this fall. 
FATHER MAURICE POWERS, C.S.C, who recently used his knockout punch to help capture two young German burglars at his home in the Chaplain's office in Berlin, Germany, writes: 
"JUSTIN KELLEY, '44, is the head of the Metal Section in the Economic Division of the Military Government in Berlin. JOHN TOKICH, '46, works in the Chemical Metal Section. JOHN WILSON, M6, and TOM TADROSS, '46, were both sent over on special assignments for the Kfili­lary Government. PAUL KEMPER, *4I, and PAUL WEBER, '42, are connected with headquarters and the AG section. AU are doing excellent work and in true Notre Dame spirit. 
"As for mj-self, I am bu5>' with the routine ad­ministrative work as senior chaplain in Berlin. Recently I was elected chaplain for the Veterans of Foreign Wars Post at Berlin, as well as chaplain for the newly founded American Legion. At the gala opening of the new American L^o n Berlla Post former Governor Dwight Griswold of Nebraska, now President Truman's appointee as head of the Greek Mission, installed the officers." 
1934 Joseph B. Glennoxu Jr., Commer­cdal Solvents Corp., 17 E. 42nd St, New York City 17, 
FATHER SEBASTLW EGAN, O.F.M. (other­wise, JACK) tells BOB CAHILL, '32, on June 19, about his recent life: 
**... . The Great Schism from the worldng ranks took place in 1939. The best that McCarthy's Foreign Commerce could produce was a trip to Brooklj-n every day. So, why not join the Axmy. An\'\*ay, after testing my orthodoxy, the powers de­cided to risk a play on God's Providence. The next six ^-ears were apportioned between CalHcoon, N. Y.; Patcrson, N. J.; and Washington, D.C. With­in that framework they tried to fill.the head with some Latin, then a -^-ear behind the walls of the NoWtiate, and the final four j-ears of Theology.'. . the philosophy course at school saved me two years of examining the world's great thoughts. The climax took place two years ago at the lovely Franciscan Monastery in Washington with Ordina­tion from the Apostolic Delegate. 
"Right after the consequent First Mass and vaca­tion I. was sent to our place in New York. You may know or remember the placc-=-St. Francis of Assist on West 31st St. It is over by the Peons]'!­vanta and may easily be recalled to. your nund as the place that has the 2:30 A.M.-"Mass (for prin­
ters, of course]. In fact, therein lies the story on how- .1 chose the Franciscan life to others. When working in New York this "MBSS became quite a habit and it was through its inlluence that I learned about the Franriscans. 
"I stayed there until last September when they put me on the Afission Band. This work as )'ou probably know cntmls the giving of Missions, retreats, nownas, etc. In fact, the reason you did not have me anchoring you in New York last Fall (if you needed an anchor) was because I heard the Army game by short-wave while up in back-country, at a place called Sudbmy-, Ontario. -I am ^supposed to have a 'perfectly wunncrful* verse, aptly suited for this work. It all began when a man named ReiUy (am I right?) took JOE CASASANTA and his "50 Beautiful Girls 50" on an extended hay ride the summer of 1933. From that time on the popubce said, 'You have a voice.* An>tvay in all seriousness, that background, plus regular life, plenty of singing, and chanting the Office two hours every 
-
 day made the task of preaching free from difficulties. And since September, I have been living the life of a salesman—out of suitcases. We are confined to the East and Canada with an occasional trip out of the United States, but that by invitation. And my clippings haven't blinded me ^-et. Strictly 

G.
 I. Joe. 


**That briefly covers the last eight to ten years. Quite a transformation. But I have never regretted the change one bit. It is a far cry from the aspirations of many >-ears ago. However, all that transpired during those years have fitted in to an excellent background, as you can well imagine. The education of Notre Dame didn't hurt a bit either. I could go on and gush all over the place about the life of a Friar, its simple outlook on life, and the greatest thing of all, to work for others. But then you would probably get roped into a week-end retreat." 
WALTER KENNEDY, former sports pubUdty director at Notre Dame, recently signed a contract to broadcast 12 games for the Baltimore Colts of the All-America conference this fall. Ted Husing will give the play-by-play and W^alt will handle the color and statistics. 
By mistake, ANDY AUTH'S name was included in the June "Alumnus" as one of those from 1934 who gave his life in World War II- On the con­trary-, we are exceedingly happy to report, Andy is very much alive. He was in service during the war, but is now back in Washington, D.C , where he resides at 302 Fourth St., S.E. He is sales manager for Auth-Loffler, Inc. 
1935 Franklyn C. Hocfareiter, 1327 Pentwood Bd.. Baltimore 12, Md. 
From HOCH: We come to press this time with FRANK HOLA­HAN'S letter—a carbon of the original we lost. So now we can give you an accurate statement of Frank's new location. Says Frank, "I was given charge of our Altoona office more than a year ago, and bad a great time finding a place to live, but we finally moved to the above address [521 Garber St., HolUda^-sburg, ^, 1 in February'. We are just about settied with our two sons, Johnny, age 4, and Billy, age 8 months." 
Incidentally, Frank's two sons were never noted in these columns or in the **Birth" column. We congratulate their proud parents. 
Pulling out bits of Frank's letter he says, "Our annual trek to New York was even more successful last >-ear than usual. (Army game). At our cocktail party in our room at the Roosevelt after the game we had TOM FLYNN, CAMILLE GRAVEL, NED ROWAN and RAY BRODERICK." Camille "brought several other Louisianans with him by plane,' all without ticJcets, of course. We had a great time trying to help him out, but they all manned to get in the stadiimi." 
"JIM HAJkflLTON .. . is a senior executive in the Dunmore Electric Co., Racine, Wis 
C. T. WILLIAMSEN is living at 759 Priority Rd., York, Pa., and represents the Eutectic Welding ^^ Alloys Co. of N. Y. as field engineer in this area." Vir 
Frank put a P.S. on the carbon telling us he bad recentiy beard from PHIL JACOBS down Alex­andria, La., way and he has set himself up in the insurance business since getting back in civics. 
Volume 25, No. 4, August. 1947 

He mentioned that GRAVEL is adding to his four ^ youngsters with number five this Fall. 
Thanks a lot for coming through with the copy Frank, a^d for the additional info. Please keep copies of future .letters—wc may slip again some time but will try not to. 
Since our last **chat" with, you \y*e had two un­expected visits. One cvemng in Mai^^ROY SCHOLZ gave us a ring from the Hopkins University Faculty Club and said he was bringing NED ROWAN over to see us. Ned is still a bachelor. On his way to olHdate in an assistant's capacity at a Washington, D.C., wedding, he had stopped off to spend the niglit with the Scholzs. Ned is practic­ing law in the home town in PcnnsyK'ania and is active in the Na\-al Reserve Unit there. 
About a month after Ned's \Tsit we had a call at llie oflice one morning from FRED BROOK­MEYER, of Cleveland when \vc last saw him, but of Chicago since the week after graduation. Fred is back with the &faris Signal Light Co. as general sales manager and has the entire country to romp in. For you uninformed (like your scribe), the Maris Co. makes the revolving lights found on the front of diescl engines. He spent over four years in the Army, in the Army .'\inra>-5 Communication S>'stem working on radar. Fred came out to the 

^ ^ house in the cvemng and the Scholzs dropped in ^ ^ for another reunion. 
Late in June we received a letter from Mary L. Sheahan who asked us to bring to you some very sad news about Wally who died on June 7. Be­cause Mrs. Sheahan asked us to be her medium of communication, here is her letter. 
"Would you please print in the next issue of the "Alumnus" the very sad news of the death of my husband, WALTER F. SHEAHAN, class of '35. Wally passed away alter an illness of only six da>3. His death came as a terrible shock to us. 
"I know his classmates and many close friends will be stunned by this news, particularly ED LYNCH, ED CULLEN, TOM WELCH, BILL CAS/VZZA, CONNOR CRONIN and SID PETTINGELL. 
"Wally will alu-a\-s be remembered as a great booster of his Alma Jfater. With the help of God, I hope his little one-year old son, Walter, will be a student there some day, just as his daddy wanted him to be. Besides little Wally, Walter is sadly missed by ^faralyn, his • four-year-old daughter.' 

"It has been terribly hard for me to write this letter to you, but it is my only %ray of notifying all ^ ^ the bo>-s Walter thought so much of." 
We have already expressed the sympathy of the class to Walty*s wife, but we suggest that all of you who ' were dose to Wally drop a note to Afrs. Sheahan at 24 Chauncey Ave., Lowell, Mass. 
We think that we neglected to announce ED LEJEUNE'S son in our last trip to press. So here come felicitations on Timothy James, weighing in at 6 lbs., 6 oz. on Afarch 31 tlils year. We are sorry it was delayed, Ed. 
The other day we picked up the "Rutland Herald" (founded 17W) remembering that one '*Duggan" CARBINE hailed from that Vermont metropolis. And there in banner lead we read "Justice Sherburne and Carbine Clash During Flood Damage Hearing." It seems that John Dug­gan Carbine was arguing a case before the Supreme Court of Vermont and the Justice found himself unable to agree with some of Duggan*s oral material relating to "duties and liabilities of a dam owner." 
Representing the Bellows Falls Hydro-Electric Co., Duggan was trying to save his client from a $17,000 flood damage suit brought by one of the natiiTs. From the news account, it would seem that: Dug­gan was throwing both the court and his legal op­[ranent for a tailspin with his ultra modern le ^ reasoning, during which he contended that "a damn owner in the effident operation of a legally con­structed dam, 'may ruin another's property without 

• incurring liability, since *there can be no liability without fault.* " 
More power to you Duggan! When do you be­come chairman of the Board? 

That's it for this time, gang! Keep those letters rolling in! 
JIM SHEILS has been appointed as deputy com* missioner of investigation of the dty of New York. 
ED BRACKEN was appointed director of region­al publidty for General Afotors and was to report in Buffalo .on July 8. Ed had been working m public relations in New York for some time pre­'riously and was a member of the Board of Gover* nors of the Notre Dame dub of New York. 
10^ 7 Flank J. BeiUy, MacNoir-Daxland IT^/ Co.. 254 W, 3lBt St, N, Y. C-
From FRANK J. REILLY: 

One bit of neu-s receiving only minor mention in the June issue of the "Alumnus*' is the fact that the ED HOYTS became the proud parents of a son, James, on April 25. In attendance at the delivery of the baby, the Hoyt's first, was DR. PAUL ^fUELLER, one-time '37er, who is now connected with Ne^v York Hospital. 
A letter from BERNARD J. KEFFLER carries the news of his marriage on June 7 to Miss Beatrice Cedlia JoHat. Bernie writes that his new address is 115 Walnut Ave., N.E., Canton 4, O. He's employed as a metallurgist and salesman for Republic Steel Corp., Massillon, O. GLEN T- DUBS of the dass of 1935 was an usher at Bernie's wedding. Bernie and bride took a honeymoon trip to Quebec. On the way back they came through the New England States and stopped at Rochester, N. Y. to visit Mr. and Mrs. PAUL B.XRKER. 
Two rcrent visitors to my ofHce were BILL GOM­PER, about whom I wTOte in an earlier column, and JOE SCHILLING, now of E. F. Drew & Co., New York chemical spedalties firm. Unfortunately, I was out of the office when both fellows called. Bill left a brief note to the effect that he had been in the neighborhood and stopped in. He also mentioned having seen LEN TOSE, *37, in Newark recently. Len was, and still is, I bene\e, in the trucking business. Bill promised to stop in again, which I hope very much he does. Like the birth of Ed Hoyt*s son, I omitted mentioning in my last effort an earlier luncheon visit I had with Joe Schilling. At that time Joe had just taken the sales job with Drew and had dropped by for lunch and some dope on the subject of synthetic detergents, one ol the products he sells and one of the things I'm familiar with through one of my firm's publica­tions, "Soap and Sanitary Chemicals." Previously Joe and TOM HUGHES had joined in a manu­facturers' representatives venture that the recession in retail-wholesale buj-jng squashed. Joe and family, which indudes three children, I believe, live on Park Ave., in East Orange, N. J. 
JACK GILLESPIE called early in July to tell me that he was leaving New York and his former job with Carl Byoir Associates in publidty work to re­locate in the public relations department of Merck & Co. in Rahway, N. J., which has the added ad­\'antage of being doser to the Gillespie manse. In addition to his other duties, Jack will write for the Merck "Review," the company's house organ. Another N. D. man at Merck is TOM TREACY, who finished a couple of dasses before us. Before going over to Rahway, in fact shortly after I re­turned to New York from our tenth reunion. Jack, JERRY GILLESPIE, FATHER JOE ENGLISH, MM., and I were guBts of VINCE and Doris HARTNETT at a lovely luncheon in their Gram-mercy Park (N. Y.) apartment. Incidentally, Father Joe English told us at the luncheon that he is leaving New York shortly for Boston, where he will continue the "recruiting" work he has been doing so succcssluUy for the past few years in and around New York. We wiil miss Joe very much and although we haven't seen him as often or for as long as we would have liked, the meetings we have bad were very pleasant and inspiring. Vince Hartnett is carrying on his work with the "Christophers," although not on a full-time basis now, as I under­stand it. 
I bumped into-ilUSTIN MCCAN N in the subway the other-nighi going home from the office. Justin expressed his-r^rct-=^ "not having been able to make the reunion,- which ^conflicted with an important business meeting^ of publishers cat Hot Springs, Va. He is living in BronxWlle. Speaking of Justin, with whose name I somehow associate that of JOHN MARBAGH, it seems to roe John is now cEstnct attorney in Wfalte Plains, N. Y. I think I ran across that bit of news at the reunion. 
PINKY CARROLL called me the other day. He reports his wife and family arc now back from Kansas and are enjoying the best of health in tbrar New Jersey hmne. - InddentaOy, I^nk told me hh mother and father celebrated their 55th wedcfing anniversary on June 30. In adiUtion to a son who is a priest, the Carroll's have six other sons, beudes Hnky, all of whom are connected with their father's printing ink firm, and two daughters. Mr. and Mrs. Carroll have 17 grandchildren and one great grandchild. Mr. Carroll is still active in the ink buuness. 
In Baltimore, where my magazine is now [irintef), I recently got in touch with CY STROKER after much telephone maneuvering. 
Cy is still in the steamship business, though no longer with the firm he worked for before the war and to whose Baltimore office he had been trans­ferred from New York. He is with Waterman Steamship Co. in the O'SulUvan Building—Balti­more's skyscraper. Cy has been with Waterman for over a year. He was in service (with the. Navy) from August, 1942 unUI February, 1946. Cy went into the NavT^ as an ensign. Followng a month's training in foreign service in Wastui^ton, D-C, he was shipped to Iceland, where he spent about 14 months working under the port director- Following this he was returned to the States and Fort Schuyler for a two months training course. 
The next chapter, and as far as Cy was concerned the most exdting one of the war, he was ordoed to Solomon^s, ^Id., where he learned he was to become an LCI skipper—after a len week's course of intensi\-e training. Upon the completion of this course he assembled his crew and went to Boston to pick up his ship which he then proceeded to take to the Padfic Wa the Panama Canal. He spent 18 months in the Padfic, during which mne he tan across VINCE HARTNETT in HawaiL Another memorable e\'ent was a visit to the Jap stronghold Yap Island in the Padfic Cy's ship was the first non-Japanese slup to visit the island in 23 years. Watching the fleet steam out of Ulithi for the attack on Oldnawa was another unforgettable inddent of the war Cy relates with great relish. He makes his home at 53(H Gwynn Oak A^-e., Baldmore. 
Next time I make the trip to Baltimore I'm get­ting together with Cy and HAL WILLIAMS, '38, a fellow dass secretary, and now editor of the Sun­day supplement of the Baltimore "Sun." Another 
N. D. man in Baltimore with whom Cy is acquainted is a chap named CONNELLY of McCormick & Co-
We received a letter from FATHER BOB LOCH­NER in Washii^on late tn June stating that he is returning to N. D. vntb his M.A. from Catfaoh'c U. in Washington to resume teaching. Bob reports that in September he will occupy quarters in Corby Hall, which brings back some fond memories, since our '37 dass as Jumors was the last to occupy that hallowed haU as a student residence hall- Bob, as you know, was worlung for his doctorate at Catholic U., but because one of the priests in lus class, who had been teadiing reUgion became SI, Bob had to return to Notre Dame to take up his teaching duties. 
DR. JIM DOWNEY writes that he returned from the Pacific a year ago, where he was a ffigbt surgeon- He took a post-graduate refresher cbmse in Cook County hospital, Chicago, and at intsent is assistant chief surgeon of the Kansas City (Mo.) Southern Employers' Hospital Asodation. 
VINCE AfcCOOLA has been appointed asshtaot grid coadi at Soranton Univernty, Scranton, Fau 
ROLAND DECOTEAU writes that the St. Mary's Men's Qnb of Ai^usta, Me., icaQy turned out to greet Coach FRANK LEAHY durii^ hss early summer visit to that city. CLEMENT CON­STANTINE, '44, and PAUE SCULLY, '41, jmned Roland In wdcoming Frank. 
1938 Hondd A. Wimama.. 4323 Morbl* Hidl Bd. BoIlisMir*; Kir-
From HAL WlLtlAMS: "T • ^,-.T«B:.^opon for this isue go to VIC MERCADO 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

who covers the June reunion in his first contribution to these notes. Mr. Mercado: 
**Thosc of our class whom I saw were JACK BUCKLEY, ED BREXNAX, CHARLIE a\LLA­HAN, TOM WEIG.\XD, CHARLEY 'BUD' KOLP, and ROCCO MOXTEGXA. Surprisingly, those whom I didn't see, but tried unsuccessfullv to reach were DON HICKEY, CHARLIE DUKE and JOHNNY PLOUFF. KOLP is in the real estate business in Canton, O., and doing fine. Bud sa\3 that his old sidekick, CHARLIE MORROW, is in business in his home town of Louis\-ilIe. Buckley, Brennan and Montegna came down from Chicago. Jack is in either the building or real estate business. Ed is Chicago representative of "Sports Magazine," and one of their super salesmen. I believe he also writes articles for tliem. I saw Rocco for a few minutes in the Oliver. He is a Iaw>*cr and looks extremely well- Tom Weigand is an engineer. He told me that DICK SWISHER is in great shape and a proud pappy. 
**At the New York club meetings I saw JOE CALLAHAN, CAS VANCE, CHARLIE METZ­GER, GENE VASLETT and. RIGGIE DE BRIEX­ZA. As for m>-sclf—I have been appointed assistant professor of Englbh at the University of Puerto RICO." Vic*s permanent address is 8642 Wood-haven Rd., Woodhaven, 21, X'cw York. 
Thanks, Vic, for the news and let's here from you when you get settled in Puerto Rico. 
CHARLIE CALLAHAN, writing from the Depart­ment of Public Information at school, abo sends a report on the reunion week-end. He saw, in ad­dition to those mentioned by Mercado, DOX FISH­ER who is an insurance man in the Bend. . . . BOB O'DOXX^ELL, from Chicago, who is an engi­neer with a plumbing concern. . . . ED KAVA­NAUGH, now a professor in aeronautical engineering at school. . . Charlie also mentions seeing JOE GLEASOX, coach at De La Salle High School in Chicago, at the Old Timers game. . • 
TOM and Twilla HUGHES announced the birth of a boy, Thomas Joseph, on May 18 at Mt. Carmcl Hospital, Columbus, O. I might not have these facts right as the announcement came in the form of a crossword puzzle and I'm not \-ery good with them. Tom, as you know, is a doctor. His address is 710 Napoleon Ave., Columbus, O. 
DON HICKEY kicks through with three notes. He sa>-s, "JACK LEADBETTER has im-itcd the South Bend '38 class to his house for dinner and we are really expecting something because he is always singing the praises of his uife's cooking. Saw JACK SCOTT in the bank. .. . The St. Joe Valley Club sponsored the annual golf tournament at the Chain­o-Lakes Country- Club; JACK MOULDER was chairman of the affair. .. . I saw FRANK CRO­SIAR broadcasting the Women's State golf tourna­ment this morning. . . . CHARLIE CALLAHAN had a throat operation in June . . . that's about all." 
This is better than last month, but I think we can get more letters than this. How about some news, bo\'s? 
ART MULHERN is doing law work with Roy 
C. Collins in Nc\rark, N. J. GENE VASLETT is now located at 11423 Bumham, West Los Angeles 24, CaliL JACK LACEY is with the Connecticut Alutual Life Insurance Co. in Chicago. 
1939 Vincent DeCoursey. 1917 Eliza­beth, Kansas City 2. Kansas 
ED SIMOMCH, coach of Bos^ Central High School, Butte, Mont., since Xo^'ember, 1945, re­signed, and has taken a job at Trinity High School, Sioux City, la. 
NORM JANDOLI is now in Cleveland for the Bankers Indemnity Insurance Co. 
HARVEY FOSTER, special agent in charge of the Indianapolis office of the F.B.I., zeoently in­stmcted South Bend city police on F.B.I, standards for marksmanship training. 
ANDY WILSON has moved from the Buffalo "E\xning News" to Detroit, where he is employed in the Detroit bureau of the United Press. 
1940 Robert G. Sonlord, 1226 W. Wis­consin Ave., Milwaukee, Wis. 
' ED HUFF is now worldng with Dun and Brad­street in Milwaukee.BOB SHE.A is with the Nation­al Training Sdiool for Boys in Washington, D.C. 
JIM BARRETT ^^-as separated from the service in February and since then has been working as a training officer for the Veterans Administration. 
1941 John W. Patterson, Jr., 5530 Dar­lington Bd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
JOE Casey is in San Francisco, Calif., with the Consultants, Ltd., general public relations. BILL DUNHAM is teaching political science at Seton Hall College. He recently moved from New York to South Orange, N. J. 
MIKE KEEGAN is now in ^Iinneapolis, Alinn., where his address is: 915 E. 25th St. 
JIMMIE CONNER is now out of the service and back on internship at the Cook County Hospital, Chicago. 
BERNIE JAEGER received his master*5 degree in aeronautical enginering from the University of Min­nesota last June. 
NOEL MacCARRY is now editor of the "Mari­time Reporter** a bi-weekly magazine for marine executives, and is liWng in New York. Noel con­tinues: **I guess your last records of me have me an editor with the Associated Press Philadelphia bureau. I left the AP in PhiUy last October and took a trip to South America with my wife. We planned to stay there for a while but finally turned it into a three months visit to Peru. We did do some broadcasting for the U. S. Information Ser\*tce in Lima, but spent most of our time wandering around gathering free-lance material w*hich my wife has already succeeded in getting into print. We both live in New York and plan to settle down here for a while.** 
From TO M GRADY: "After graduation in *41, I went to work for Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Corp., Pittsburgh. The week of Pearl Harbor I was called to New York to work in chemical allocation. In October, 1942, I was called to active duty in the Da\-al rescr\-es. Served in armed guard in the north and south Atlantic and Mediterranean waters. Then served with the Army Transport sei^-ice attached to the 5th and 7th Armies. Saw some action in the British Isles and Italian waters and was wounded at Anrio. Then I was sent to the Pacific, via Miami, and the Gulf and ended the war as a commanding ofncer of the AUS-6 in Japanese and North China waters. After 33 months at sea and over 47 in the Navy, I returned last August to Carbide in New York. I am now in the Chicago office.** 
ED KELEHER is entering the public accounting field and in September will begin work with the Charles S. Rockey firm in Philadelphia. He will specialize in budgetary control work. 
1942 William E. Scanlan. 213 N. Cuyler SL. Oak Park. lU. 
CHARLIE NELSON, Plymouth, Ind., is working for National Cash Register Co., South Bend. JIM DIVER, formerly of Bridgeport, III., has been appointed United States probation officer for the Indianapolis area. 
On June 14, BILL MEIER received his master of arts degree from the University of Minnesota. 
A 'note from Eastern Airlines and ANDY McCAFFREY: "I have been tied up with finishing my studies at Columbia University. 'Within the last few days I hare spoken with TONY MALONEY (he's back inth the Navy) and TOM DELIA. Both asked to be remembered to everybody. JOHN POWERS was working with us at Eastern for a while, but now he is writing for an oil company." 
Under "Deaths" in this issue, you'll read the story of Mike Shannon. '39, Los An­geles. Confined to his bed for years, Mike was still an unbeatable, inspiring person, cheerfully active in the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles as well as in his own bun­ness, which he conducted by telephone. One of the high moments of his life was the Mass which Father Frank Gartland, CS.C. offered in the Shannon home dioitly before VEke died. Father Frank and Mike are shown here. 
From NEAL GLEASON, Milwaukee: "Mrs. Glea­son and I attended the June 28 wedding of Maigaret Graner to EUGENE SCHUMAKER. Among the out-of-town alumni present were Mr. and Mrs. DAN STACK, '41; Mr. and Mrs. OTTO MOLI­DOR, Libertyville, 111.; and BOB O'HARA, Chicago and NEIL McCARTY, Applcton, Wis. Dan is flying a PennsyKania airliner out of Detroit; Otto is an accountant for Fansteel; 0*Hara is a painting contractor and I believe McCarty said he was in law school at Harvard.** 
1943 Edward C. Roney, 1723 IroquoiB Ave^ Detroit, ^Gch. 
From ED RONEY: 

This is late, and from N^ew York. Am here for six months of training toward being an account executive for the largest brokerage firm in the country, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenncr & Beane. The address Is the Henr>' Hudson Hotel and all who find time to drop in for a bull session on old times will be more than welcomed. Hope to be able to get in touch with some of the fellows in the East, especi­ally those around the New York area. Don't know all their correct addresses, %o how about calling up? 
Have managed to contact my old roommate of senior year, FRANK KING, who*s now laying over on the bed thinking up much needed news for this column. He's going to start dictating in a little bit, but first let me pass on the only letter arriving since last issue. Old Steve Ensncr, now of Evans­villc, Ind., came forth with the following: 
"Returned from California in ^fay, Just missing the reunion. Am loafing the summer through in Indiana, and will probably stay here. Stumbled into ROG CUMMIXGS at Wrigley Field on the way home. We talked about Notre Dame, Naxy, etc., while the Cubs were rained out. Also saw our newly married FRED CHRISTMAN in Terre Haute. Fred is fine, fat, and forsaking the accounting field for his father's business. I say this as I know he wont write. 
"My next planned northward move is the .Army game. Any ideas prevalent concerning that week­end? Hotel get-together, etc?" 
Thej!e five Xotre Dame men work for Eli house. 
WAYNE ZELLER is with D. E. F^g o and Co., public accotmtants, Chicago. He u working in the South Bend and Elkhart areas. 
FATHER KEVIN B. O'DOHERTY is as&gncd to Holy Saviour Buish, Wcstmont, N. J. 
From BILL TRACY, who got bis degree xa Fhy Ed last June: '*just a short note to let roti know that 1 am gettii^ along swdl here In Kansas City, Mo., with my new post with the F.B.I. My brother, JOE, is still pounding the btxks at Co-Itunbia law school and Jerry is goii^ to get married in October." 
WALT HEIN, Ft. Wayne, Ind., says: **! am now married and have a dattghter, C^thy Anne, y/Ao is 21 months old." 
1944 John A. Lynch. 15724 Grondvills Bd^ Detroit 23, BGch. 
From JOHN LYNCH: 
The mailbag is %'ery slim this month, but wre can relay a congratulatory message from the president of the University, REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, 
C. S. C- We hope, of course, that this will not tempt the Class of '44 to rest with their laurels^ but will relight any fires that may be dimming. 
"Through JIM ARMSTRONG I have just heard of the splendid cooperation the Class of 1944 has given to the annual Alumni Fund during the last three years, and I hasten my personal congratulations to you and the members of the entire class for what you have done. The participation of the Class of '44 in the 1946 Drive led all other Classes and this fact deser\-es the praise and gratitude of the entire administration of the University to the oflScers of the Class for their unceasing efforts and to the members of the Class for the generous share they have contributed. 
'*Allhough words are feeble to express apprecia­tion, I want you all to know of the lasting grati­tude of all here for what you have done and con­tinue to do. In addition, I hope each and every­one of the Class will feel many times rewarded in every way. 
"May God ever bless you abundantly.** 
As you know, the Fifth Annual Fund is under way and will close Dec. 31. Our participation so far has been strong and we expect it will stay that way, spurred on by love, football tickets or what­ever. If you have not checked in, try to do it soon. 
A letter from HARRY YE.ATES of Kankakee has been on hand since June 6 and we can pick. a little news from that. 
"TOM O'CON'NOR has taken a new 'position' (that's what he calls it) with Sears at their State Street store in Chicago in the ad\-ertising depaxt­ment. He's been with Butler Bros, now for six months and is definitely climbing up the ladder. His brother JACK, *47, is with Reynolds Metal in Chicago. I saw "The Iceman Cometh" with them several weeks ago. 
"Had a brief note from ED CASHiL\N last week. He's going back to summer school in several weeks and is home now doing absolutely nothing, I pre­sume. Ran into iOKE CONW.AY. one day in the Palmer House lobby. He*s in Law School some place in Chicago. 
"No news of CHRIST HERRING, '45, for months. Believe he's with his father in the shoe business down Virginia way. Had a letter from JACK O'NEILL in January, written from Tufts, where he is finishing up hb medico training. Jack is cngs^ed .. . she's from Vermont . . . the only girl in the world, etc." 
Just a couple of notes on weddings. 'As of July 26 JOHN VAN BENTEN of Indianapolis will be among the married ranks. This news comes from BILL BOSS, now of Camden and environs, who was trying to fit his RCA \acation so he could be on hand. 
For the Miss Barbara Rempe—CHUCK PATTER­SON wedding in Chicago, June 14, BEN PATTER­SON *48, the groom's brother, was best man. . JIM CUNNINGHAM was also in the wedding party. 
Thanks for the swell letter, Steve. There aren't any definite plans as yet for the Army week-end. but most of the gang seems to find its way down to the Hoffmann Hotel after the games. That's only a suggestion. Hope lo see you there if I can get away from here. There's some question of the time off and the expense, from N. Y. 
That's the end of the letters, so let's see what FRANK KING has been able to remember. BILL BENET owns a sporting goods store in Grand Rapids, Minn. HANK KANE is keeping the wheels of advertising moving for Kenyon & Eckhardt in New York. He plans to be married soon. JOHN MALLOY should have his master's degree in Engi­neering from Columbia by this time. 
And that's the end of Frank's news. I've man­aged to pick up a little myself in the last couple of weeks here. Talked to TOM MALONEY over in Jersey City - the other night. He contributed the following: PAUL TOLAND was married in late July in Patcrson, N. J. NICK VILLAROSA and CHARLEY WADE arc both doing fine and we all expect to get together soon. Tom himself is almost fully recovered from his serious illness of our senior year. 
Saw BILL FISHER the other night and met his lovely wife Reggy, and a bouncing William Anthony, about sLx months. Bill hadn't seen anyone in some time but expected to soon. 
NewT! in Detroit as I left was about JIM BYRNE who was on the verge of selling, his launderette business for a fancy profit and ED HICKEY'S engagement to a perfectly ^vonderful girl, Ann Farley, daughter of the former postmaster-general. The wedding is to be in New York in late fall. 
The above finishes up the news of this issue. How about dropping the column a line. We've had three straight enemic columns due to lack of letters and news now. Give that old right arm a limbering up. 
And don't forget that we're tr^-ing to set a record this year with the Alumnt Fund. Even though you may be late you got to remember the University needs your contribution. '43 hasn't had a bad year yet." 
 I.illy and Company, Indianapolis phamuKcutlcal 
Front row, left, Frank Fox, '-IS, is doinf? stock correlation work in the Material Control Section uf that company since liis return from service witli the Army. Geors;e Santer, center back row, '.18, aI*io is serrinR in tliat diiisii»n as an expeiliter. George rejoined the company after serving three ynurs as a laboratory technii;ian and as a chaplain's assistant in the Army. He nmrried Helen fllcer of IndianaiK>Iis and they have two children, Patricia, age four, fuiid Kobert, four months. 
I*aurDeer>% left buck r»w, *43. beiran work in the lilly Frmlnction Control oflBce after his return from the Army as a first lieutenant. Workini; with Paul is Robert Kajsherg-, '43, risht back row. Bob retumeil from naval senice a lieutenant, to the I^illy Production Control office. 
Thomas Sweeney, '43, front row rijrht, is workini? in the Resetirch Department of the Lilly Com­pany. He Ls a former Lt. (J.ff.). Tom is married to Marjorie Kelly and they have one child, Thomas Kdward Sweenej-, oicc one. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

When DUKE LEARY married Miss Pat Berigan companion was J. J. L. JOHNSTON who is bade 
in Omaha July 5, ART McGRATH went out from Notre Dame to be best man and yours truly went along for added support. The Duke fared all right and he and the uifc stopped through Detroit, July 17, to pick up a car and have a free beer. They were on their way to Milwaukee Avhere Duke will start as a reporter on the **Journal." 
And that is the column for this month. Needless to say, we need letters. Just send them along any time, but the sooner the better. 
Last June, NORM MUELLER received his master of science degree from Washington University, St. Louis. The same month DR. TOM M.ANGAN graduated with highest honors in medicine from St. Louis University. 
For the information of NORB WLEKLIXSKI, a law>*er in the Union National Bank BIdg., East Chicago, Ind., GERRY GAFFNEY'S address is 44 
W. 175th St., Bronx, N. Y. 
IQ^CIcnnes W. Schaeffer, P. O. Box 
•'^^369, Schenectady, N. Y. . TED WEBER writes from Bridgeport, Conn., where he is doing publicity work for the General Electric Co. He informs us that the only Notre Dame man he has run into so far has been JIM GOWER. Ted and Jim have traveled to nearby 
New Haven and New York during spare time from office duties. 
JIM MURPHY of "Meet the Missus" fame is attending the graduate radio school at Northwestern University. He is concentrating on radio script writing. On a recent visit to the Alumni Office he gave his address as Foster House, North^ccstern University, E\anston. 
HARRY WALTERS, of the class of *45, has been made a Harlan Flsk Stone scholar in Columbia Law School for the 1947-48 academic term. Two prior recipients of the award were CHARLES COLGAN, '39 and R.ALPH GERRA, *41. 
OWEN DOYLE graduated from the Yale Uni­versity school of mediane last June. 
TOM NOLAN recently was separated from the naval service. He is planning on entering North­western University for graduate work in the fall. 
1946 
JACK STEWART, vacadoning at DeauWlIe, France, was to lea\'e shortly for Moscow* for a month's. dut>'. He is stationed at the American Embassy in Paris. 
^QAf J- D. Usma 219 S. Scott St., South 
•'^ ' Bend. 2, Ind. 
•Introducing the new secretary* of the class, J. D. USLNA: 
As I start something new here for Notre Dame and BILL DOOLEY, I come to realize that grad­uation is itist six weeks auay. Seems more like six hundred. In a dramatic attempt to have some news of the class for this issue, I tried sending a few postcards out. Got a few results. 
HARRY J. GILLIGAN, JR., of dov™ Cincinnati way, sa>*s: "There bn't much Notre Dame news this way for the time being and little or none about the class of '47. DAVID J. CHAMPION, was married here on June 14 to Miss Gloria Mary FuUerton. JAMES HORN, ex. '46, was best man, 
F. J. GILLIGAN and I, plus help from WILLIAM FERRICK, '48, ushers. .. . ED MERSNLAN, ex. '47, is to be married July 26. . . Cincinnati Alumni Association is giving a picnic for the Class of 1947 and others up at N. D. . . . We missed you at Dave's wedding and it was quite a time. BOB SNEE, ED BALL, JOHN CARON, and HANK SLAMIN all c:ame down for it. . . "fNote: Harry penned that news while flat on his back with a fever—some of you other gents might get good example from that.1 
Ha\-e been seeing quite a bit of DON CLAEYS in South Bend. Occasionally run into HENRY HOOVER. A few weeks back met JACK McGRANE, in town for a few days. His constant for some more work on his M..A. during the summer. Several nights ago had a good talk with BILL BERK, on his way home to Chicago after a few da>-s in Bloomington. He is working with consulting engineers—I think the firm's name is Gately and Hanson in Chicago. Bill told me that he spent fifteen da>-s at Quantico, Va., in Marine Corps refresher. Seems it was pretty good duty. „ 
BILL GRANT writes from Erie in response to a plea for neu'S: 
'*I'm afraid I can't do too much. The only fellows I've seen ha\^ been HERB DAIKER and JIM LEDWITH, who stopped for a little while on their way to N. Y.—they \%-erc 'thumbing' their way home. 
^•'Maybe some news is that my day is set for joining the throngs of the married—^Aug. 9, is the day and ED STROOT. is going to be one of my ushers. You know Mary Agnes Culhane, the girl I'm going to marry, don't you? Ed is still up at Harvard and doing fine." 
Met JACK KEARNEY on the sun deck at the Rocknc Memorial the other day and asked for some news of the fellows from New York. Next day I found the latest news in the form of a full report letter from Jack. Jack, incidentally, with one degree already tucked away, is aiming to get an undergraduate degree in Electrical Engineering next June. During the regular sessions at Notre Dame he is teaching in his spare time. Here's what he had to say: 
"I'll start wlh New York. TOM MULHERN is working for Allied Purchasing Co. which owns a string of department stores across the U. S. ...-. BILL BRACKEN went on a Na\*>' cruise for a. month . . . RUDY ANDERSON is doing part time work in the Patent Office in Washington and is stud>ing patent law at night at Georgetown. . . . JOHN TOOLE receives his B.S. in Coram, at the end of the summer session and will work for his father in New York. . . . FRANK ALARTIN, after getting out of the Na\->-, went to N.Y.U. and I think he is stud>ing to be a doctor; in fact he might be an M. D. by now. . . . Outside the New Yorkers, the only ones I can think of are: JOHN JOHNSON who is teaching at St. Vincent's college in Penna. and doing graduate work at Notre Dame in the summer. . . . LOU STONE is going to school now and expects to get his degree come next June." 
My old roommate, BOB GRIFFIN of Bridgeport, Conn., writes from a camp in New Hampshire that he will be returning to Law School in the fall. Griff u-rites the following: 
"At BILL BRACKEN'S big party in Brooklyn were BOB CLARY, JACK NEARY, TOM MUL­HERN, HERB DAIKER, DAN O'DONNELL, BILL CLEMENCY, RODDY HAYDEN, plus their dates and a lot of otliers. BILL CLEMENCY is teach­ing in New York. . . . VINCE LAURITA wiU be teaching in Chicago. . . . JACK NEARY is going to Seton Hall. . . . BOB CLARY is with American Car and Foundry" Co. . . ." 
CONGRATULATIONS are in order for these two who are taking the big step, and also the many more whom we have missed hearing from. 
Now that we have started a Class of 1947 column in the "Alumnus," all of you please drop me ' a line, a card—^anything with something about you or members of the cbss. I need plenty of news and you fellows have really got it I'm sure. Hease write it. 
[J. D. modestly refrains from adding that he him* self is emplo>'ed by &fac Donald-Cook advertising agency' in South Bend] 
BILL AL\LONE, law graduate, is w*orking for Miles Laboratories in Elkhart, Ind. 
ERNEST DONATH expects to return to the University this Septeml>er, following his separation frora the service. 
AHLT PRESSON is taking the special pre-State Department exam, course at George Washington University, Washington, D.C. 
S
POTLIGHTS ALUMNI . 
MICHAEL D. FANNING, '08, post­master of Los Angeles, was recently awarded the Blessed Martin de Porres Award for the Catholic layman who has contributed the most to Inter-Racial relations in the city of Los Angeles. 
MICHAEL D. FANNING 

The de Porres award, named for a Negro member of the Dominican Order whose canonization is pending, is made each year to the Catholic layman outstanding for his ser\-ice. As head of one of the largest postal ^ 
Postmaster Fanning was extolled for his fair employment practice in government service. As head of one of the largest postal areas in the United States, he installed a personnel policy of hiring and up-grading postal employees on the basis of ability and qualification alone. 
Negro leaders in that community have widely praised Mr. Fanning for his policy which has resulted in equal opportunity for Negroes. Whereas previously only t^vo Negroes held supervisorial positions in Los Angeles, ten have been able to advance themselves to such posts in his administra­tion. 
Mr. Fanning, a member of St. Peter's paiish in Los Angeles, is the second Notre Dame man to be postmaster in Los Angeles. The late P. P. O'Brien was also postmaster. 
LAYMEN'S RETREAT 

The Laymen's Retreat, conducted annually Mj) at Notre Dame before the war, was re­sumed Aug. 21-24, with an attendance of 1,500. 
JbiAeciiMu of Clubs and Their Presidents » » 
PHOENIX, Ariz.—Jolin P. Joyce, '40. S30 Forest Ave.. Tempe. <\.ri2. TUCSON. Ariz.—Ted W. Witz. "29, Box C2S ARKANSAS—Burt L. Roberts, 'IC. 1325 Lincoln Ave.. Little Rock 
(secretary) LOS ANGELES. Ciilif.—Thomas R. Ashe. "31, Globe Oil Tools Co.. I^s Nietos, Calir. NORTHERN CALIFORNIA—Jolin IV. Carey. '41. Hanna Center ror 
. Boys, 783 Market, Rm. 402. San Francisco (San Francisco area) DENVER—Dr. Daniel G. Monaghfin, "38, 440 William CONNECTICUT VALLEY (Conn.)—Floyd R. Richards, '42, Radio Sta­
tion WTIC, Hartford (Hartford area) N.VUGATUCK VALLEY (Conn.)—D. Frank Murnanc. '32. Summit Rd.. Prospect, Conn. (Waterbury area) SOUTHEASTERN CONNECTICUT—John J. Galla. •33. 303 Spring St.. Bridgeport (Bridgeport area) DELAWARE—Artliur A. Baum. '30. 1310 Van Burcn St., Apt. 3-C. 
Wilmington WASHINGTON. D. C.—Daniel Culhane, '23. 3540 39th St.. N. W. FLORIDA-William K. McCormick. '32. c/o Miami Jllattrcss Co.. lio 
. M N. W". 13th St.. Miami (Miami area) CHICAGO, 111.—Thomas S. McCabe. '22. 11 S. LnSalle St. ILLINOIS FOX VALLEY—Dr. Philip C. Hemming. '29, 399 Vincent 
PI., Elgin, in. (Aurora-Elgin area) lOLIET. III.—Joseph V. Kirincich, '33, 306 Ruby St. PEORIA. 111.—Daniel J. Hechf, '44, c/o Adams Typewriter Co., 227 
S. Jefferson St. ROCK RIVER VALLEY. III.—Donald A. Hnlincssy. '37. Catholic Community High School. Sterling. HI. (Rockford-Dixon area) SPRINGFIELD, 111.—Nicholas C. Amrhein, '39, 1623 S. Fourth St. CALUMET DISTRICT—Fred J. Solman. Jr.. '2S. 5752 Erie Ave.. Hammond, Ind. (secretary) (Gary-Hammond area) EASTERN INDIANA—Charles F. Vogt. 207^. E. Main St.. Muncie 
(Muncie area) FORT AVAYNE. Ind.—Bernard T: Kearns. '29. 903 Pasadena Drive INDIANAPOLIS. Ind.—Patrick .1. Fisher. '36. 616 Indiana Trust Biag. 
-MICHIGAN CITY. Ind.—Hugh L. Burns. '39, Department of Athletics, Notre Dame. Ind. 3T. JOSEPH VALLEY (Ind. and Slich.)—John E. Mclntyre. '31. 1514 
E. LaSaile St.. South Bend (South Bend area) PRI-STATE (Ky., Ind. and 111.)—^Francis J. Henneberger. '31, 502 N. Hart St.. Princeton, Ind. (Ev.insville-Vincennes area) ^ WABASH VALLEY, Ind.—D. Emmett Ferguson, '32, 721 N. 9th St., V^p Lafayette, Ind. (Lafayette area) DES MOINES, la.—Joseph B. Whalen. '29, Hotel S.averj-DUBUQUE, la.—C. I. Kraje-vskl. '16, 1775 S. Grandville Ave. SIOUX CITY, la.—Robert A. Manning. '36. 2719 Nebraska St. (key man) TRI-CITIES (III. and Iowa)—Francis C. King. '19, Court House, Rock Island, III. (secrctarj-) (Davenport-Rock Island-Mollne area) E.VSTERN KANSAS—^Daniel F. Foley, '23. 122 Spruce St., Leavenworth (Leavenworth area) KENTUCKY—William J. Woerner. 'SS. 20S llaytalr. Oxford Place. 
(Louisville area) NEW ORLEANS, La.—Jules K. de la Vergne, '3S. 5811 Hurst NORTHERN LOUISIANA—James R. Nowery. '29, P.O. Box 1545. 
Shreveport 94 (Shreveport area) BALTIMORE—Lewis J. O'Shea, '31. 307 St. Dunstan's Rd.. Homeland. BOSTON, Mass.—Hugh F. Blunt. '24. 216-217 Home Banking BIdg.. 
106 Main St., Brockton 22, Mass. BERRIEN COUNTY (Jllch.)—William H. Downey. '2S. CO N. St. Joseph Ave.. Niles (Nlles-St. .Toseph-Bonton Harbor area) BLUE AVATER DISTRICT (Jllch.)—William L. Wilson, '42, P.O. Box 295, Port Huron (Port Huron area) CENTRAL MICHIGAN—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes, 'IS. S2S N. Logan St.. 
Lansing (Lansing area) DETROIT, Mich.—Joseph A. Bach. '20. 505 Park Ave., c/o Detroit Lions GRAND RAPIDS, Mich.—Joseph F. Deeb. '31. 600 Cambridge Blvd., S.E. HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.)—Norman C. Bartholomew. '15. 225 
Cleveland Ave., Iron Slountain, Mich. (Iron SIt.-Marinette area) 
% 
IRON RANGE (Jlich.-Wls.)—Theodore A Nolan. '33, 302 Arch St., 
Ironwood, Mich. (Ironwood area) JACKSON, Mich.—Lyman H. Hill. Jr.. '5205 U. S. 127, S. 3.\GINAW VALLEY. Mich.—Joseph C. Goddeyne. '11. 2275 Carrol Rd., 
Bay Citj-, Mich (Sai^inaw area) 

.MINNESOTA—Robert M. Rodgers, '43. 949 Grand Ave., St Paul (Twin Cities area) 
KANSAS CITY (Mo. ' and Kans.)—^Thomas M. Reardon, '39, 1104 
W. 76th Terrace, Kansas City, Mo. 3T. LOUIS, Mo.—Fred a Weber. Jr.. '3S. 6639 TTnlversity Drive .MONTANA—Edward F. Slmonlch, '39, 608% Travonia St., Butte, Mont. CE.\-TKAL NEW JERSEY—Micbael J. Baloc, '34, 316 Watson Ave.. Perth Amboy (Perth Amboy area) NEW JERSEY—George J. Mellnkovich, '35, 27 Leo Place, Newark (Newark area) BUFFALO, N. Y.—Donald W. Love, '35, 6034 Main St., Willlanu­ville, N. Y. CAPITAL DISTRICT (N. Y.)—John F. Campbell, '26. 252 S. Main. Albany 3 (Albany area) CENTRAL NEW YORK—Mark E. Monney. '26, 125 Butternut Drive, DeWitt (Syracuse area) .MOHAWK VALLEY (N.T.)—Frank Donalty. '33, 23 Beverly PI., Utlca (Utica area) .NEW YORK, N. Y.—^Tierney A. O'Rourke, '30. 76-12 35th Ave., Jackson Hgts., N. Y. NORTHERN NEW YORK—Judge Cornelius J. Carey. '30, 12 Park 
St.. Malone (Malone area) ROCHESTER. N. Y.—Joseph M. Geraghty, 2S, 50 Quentln Rd. 
TRIPLE CITIES (N.T.)—James H. Hogan. '34, 42 Oak St., Bing-Iiamton. N. Y. (Binghamton-Johnson City area) AKRON, O.—Paul A. Bertsch, '29, 763 S. High CANTON, O.—Glen T. Dubs, '35, 224 35th St., N. W. CENTRAL OHIO—John J. Cannon, '30, 53S E. Broad St., Columbtis (Columbus area) CINCINNATI. O.—J. Walter Nienaber. '37. 2106 Alpine PI. CLEVELAND. O.—Hugh M. O'Neill. '17, 544 Terminal Tower DAYTON, O.—E. William Hoyne, '42, 205 Salem Avenue HAMILTON, O.—Marc A. Fiehrer. '27, 708 Rentschler BIdg. LI.MA, O.—George Shanahan, 432 W. Main St. DHIO VALLEY—Edmund A. Sargus, '33. 41 Harrison St., Bellaire. O. (Bellaire-Whoeling area) 3ANDUSKY, O.—John J. Millott, '27, 913 Osborne St. riFPIN, O.—Fred J. Wagner, '29, 84% S. Washington St. TOLEDO. O.—Robert F. Schramm, "39, 729 Grove PI. YOUNGSTOWN, C.—Clarence T. Sheehan, '40, The VINDICATOR TULSA. Okla.—E. W. Leroux, '33, 1724 S. Madison DREGON-Robert G. Molln. '40, 316 W. Alder St, Portland E.\STERN PENNSYLVANIA—^Leo K. Mclntyre. '28. 3004 Turner St., Allentown (Allentown-Bethlehem area) • ERIE, Pa.—James B. Dwyer, '37, 4006 State St HARRISBURG, Pa.—Robert J. Klaiber. '35. 72-A Hummel, LeMoyne, Pa. .MONONGAHELA VALLEY-(Pa.)—^Edward J. - Dean. '28, 11 Linden Ave., Monessen, Fa. (Monessen area) ^ PHILADELPHIA. Pa.—Charles A. Conley. '35. 100 E. Turnbull Ave., Havertown, Pa. SCR.\NTON, Pa.—^Louis J. Plnskc, '19, Gravel Pond No. 2. ,CIarks Summit. Pa. WESTERN PENTCSYLVANIA-Lawrence J. O'TooIc. '36. 425 S. Aiken Ave., Pittsburgh (Pittsburgh area) WILKES-BARRE, Pa.—Gilbert V. Perry. '31, 190 Wyoming Ave.. Wyoming, Pa. RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS—John J. McLaughlin. 
•34, Jlendon Rd.. Cumberland HIII, R. I. (Providence area) MEMPHIS. Tenn.—T. J. Foley, Jr., '35, 6666 S. McLean -V-VSHVILLE, Tenn.—V!. Kennedy Jones. '30, P. O. Box 773 D.VLLAS. Tex.—^^Valter L. Fleming. '40, 4549 Belfort Place HOUSTON, Tex.—Robert C. Scrogglns. '24, 430 Humble BIdg. S.VN ANTONIO, Te.x.—Leonard M. Hess, '23, 201 Stanford Dr. UTAH—Jack W. Galilvan, "37. 1017 Kearns BIdg., Salt Lake City VIRGINIA—^Dr. Charles R. Riley, '39, 3508 Semlnarr Ave., Richmond 
22 (key man) WESTERN WASHINGTON—Charles F. Osborn, Jr., '38, 603 Central 
Blug., Seattle (Seattle area) WEST VIRGINIA—Joseph F. Neenan, '41, 4012 Venable Ave., Charleston GREEN BAY. Wis.—John D. Clancy, "35. 525 Clay St. LACROSSE. Wis.—John A. Elliott, '23. 1420 King St. MILWAUKEE. Wis.—Thomas E. Dixon, '41, 127 N. 74th St., Milwaukee 13 WISCONSIN—South Central—John W. Roach. '25, 2115 Van Hlse 
Ave., Madison (Madison area)­
•sg g :3:E: ^CE^ =XE: 
.Ts ac: 3:c: :3z= 3:^: ^nzz :=SE= zzz:= 3x: sccr 
" 
Oo&'i tUe IfeanA.... tlte UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME 
y 
FOUNDATION 
1 is the "triple threat" of the new financial T - I'ormation. 
1. By a program of annual giving — a short cut to the endowment 
• 
income which can only come from a much greater endowment than Notre Dame now has.* 
2.
 By stimulating through capital gifts and bequests the large gifts which will build up the cndo^\'ment. (Annual gi\'ing, which pro\ndcs an equivalent for the immediate year, obviously is not a substitute for the necessaiy security of capital endowment as an eventual asset of the University.) 

3.
 By stimulating special gifts for special projects not possible from ordinaiy income — buildings, equipment, fellowships, etc. 


TO ILLUSTRATE: 

,„, _ , W.1S the equivalent of income from • ,„, ^ 
1946 1 . \ non-e.xistent I ^946 ^'^"S '" '^"^^ ^^ ^'^^ SPECULATION, ^p"ooo'ooo^ fronfalumni THIS IS THE ST A TUS NO W! Invented safely and friends I I at 2% 
1947 I . . . will = ... I 1947 
^???,???in ^]^7jr) SHOULD EXCEED 1946! ^ " ^,";'^°;;™=f °f ifts 
1 
19?? 19?? ^750,000 in could = An endowment of sifts v'>37,500,000 
19?? 19?? ^1,000,000 in ,IJ = An cndouTncnt of gifts ^50,000,000 
could = I .

19?? 19?? ^2,000,000 in NOR IS THIS WILD DREAMING. ' ?; 100,000,000 in gifts OTHER SCHOOLS ARE DOING IT! endowment. 1 
* Notre Dame's actual endowment is .$4,033,974.42, of which only $1,192,231.20 is unrestricted. :2:1c jrrr :az= :=CE: 3Z= ^oa 33=: ^CET 3:E: :3:c: zc: :3d 






