The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

GRID ACTIVITIES 
SOUTH BEND—A prc-gamc smoker before Xolre Dame home games is bcine spon­sored on Friday at 8:30 p.m. !>>• the Knights of Columbus. All Xotre Dame alumni and guests arc welcome to attend the festivities. Many sports celebrities arc scheduled to be principal speakers. The K. of C. address is 815 North Michigan, South Bend, Ind. 
• 
XAVY—Prc-game rally, Friday, Nov. 2. 8 p.m.. Hotel Emerson. Baltimore^ Md., staged by Notre Dame Club of Balti­more. Celebrities, movies, dancing, re­freshments. Admission $3 per person. Reserv-ations. F. C. Hochreiler, 1327 Pcntwood Road. Baltimore 12, Md. Bal­timore dub uill also hold po$t-ipimccocktail party at Hotel Emerson from 5 to 8 p.m. Admission §1 per person. 
IOWA—Dance, Blackhawk Hotel in Daven­port. 7<ov. 23, sponsored by ND Alumni Club. 

Nationalism Studies 9 Presented to Library 
Carlton J. H. Hayes, famed histo­rian, former U. S. Ambassador to Spain and 1946 winner of Notre Dame's coveted Laetare Medal, has presented his collection of books and pamphlets on nationalism to the Uni­versity of Notre Dame librar>\ 
•* Hayes, professor emeritus of history at Columbia Univei-sity, and the author of numerous volumes on European his­tory, is recognized as the generation's leading authority on modem nation­alism. 
Hayes' tenure as U. S. Ambassador ,_AD Spain ran from 1942 to 1945. By Teceipt of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal 
in 1946, he was recognized as an out­standing American Catholic layman. The former diploniat also received an honorary degree from Notre Dame in 1921, and he has since been similarly honored by other colleges and univer­
sities. During 1955, he lectured at Notre Dame in a series sponsored by the University's Distinguished Profes­sors Program. 
His more recent books include: "Spain: Contemporary Europe Since 1870," and "Christianity and Western Civilization." 
I Volume 34 No. October, 1956 
James E. AnosUaag, "25 
Editor 

JohnN. CacUey,'37 
Managing Editor 


New Academic Year Opens With Challenge to Future 
Father Hesburgh Cites Duties in Modern Age 
The University of Notre Dame be­gins its 115 th academic year with new curricular adjustments to meet the nu­clear age, a multi-million dollar expan­sion of campus physical layout, and a sober charge to meet the challenge of rampant secularism, delivered by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, presi­dent of the University, during an ad­dress marking the year's formal open­ing at ceremonies held September 23. 
More than 1,500 freshmen arrived early to participate in a week-long ori­entation program including talks by university officials, a battery of tests, registration for classes and a spiritual retreat. Upperclassmen arrivals for the first day of classes on September 21 swelled the ranks of the University's student body to an unprecedented total approximated at 5,600. 
Curricula innovations included a new sequence of courses in nuclear engineering, offered for the first time to freshmen in the University's college of engineering. 
Additions to Curricula 
Two other undergraduate colleges within the University also offered ad­ditions to their curricula. The doctor of philosophy degree in economics, with concentration on industrial relations, is available in the college of commerce for the first time during the 1956-57 school year. A revised music education program with renewed emphasis on the liberal arts also was inaugurated by the University's college of arts and letters. 
A new $4,300,000 construction pro­gram, including a new dining hall and two residence halls—one of which was projected through the donation by Mr. and Mrs. James F. Keenan of Fort Wayne, Indiana—^is' slated for comple­tion sometime in 1958. 
Construction work completed during the summer includes the redecoration of Washington Hall and interior paint­ing in St. Edward's and Dillon Halls. 
Faculty Totals More Than 500 
The entire University faculty of more than 500 scholars attended the new school year's official September 23 opening ceremonies with a procession in colorful academic file to Sacred Heart Church, on the campus, where Father Hesburgh celebrated a Solemn High Mass. 
During his opening sermon. Father Hesburgh indicted proponents of "oversecularism" and labelled it the "capital sin of our age." He stressed the modem world's desperate need for men and women who respect both the spiritual and temporal orders and neglect neither. 
Only through the mediation of the layman, the university president said,, will the spirit of the Gospel become manifest in many quarters of the mod­em world "where the temporal order and the things of time have become ends in themselves, divorced from any higher wisdom, any nobler law, any breath of God and the things of God." 
Citing the University of Notre Dame as a concrete example of priests and laymen "working fruitfully together in a common endeavor," Father Hes­burgh emphasized that "our work of education is in the world, but never completely of the world. We are com­mitted to a higher wisdom," he said, "while working effectively for all the perfection that is possible in the things of time." 
Students received class assignments and posed for identification card photos, in the Na»-j- drill hall, at the opening of school. 
Mike O'Hara, '33, Eyes Justiceship 
The Universit)' of Notre Dame was well represented at die Republican State Convention held recently in Grand Rapids, Michigan, when two men—one a graduate of the class of 1933, and another the fadier of a pres­ent junior class member in die Uni­versity's college of commerce—^walked away with the nominations as candi­dates for justice of die Michigan Su­preme Court and state treasurer, re­specdvely. 
Michael D. O'Hara, Menominee, Michigan, class of '33 and a member of die Notre Dame Law Association, was nominated as a candidate on a non-partisan judicial ballot for justice of the state supreme court, general election for which will be held No­vember 6. 
Frank Padzieski, whose son, Rich­ard, is a junior in the University's college of commerce, won the part}''s nomination for state treasurer. 
O'Hara completed his pre-legal studies at Notre Dame in 1931, at which time he maintained a scholastic average of 90.3. After leaving Notre Dame, he began the study of law under die preceptorship of Justice Leland AV. 
Carr of the Michigan Supreme Court, then a circuit judge. He passed the Michigan Bar Examination in 1935. 
He is married and has four children. 

200 Trade Experts Meet Here Oct. 23 
John S. Coleman, president of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States, and Harry Schwartz, Soviet af­fairs specialist of the New York Times, will be the principal speakers at the ninth annual \Vorld Trade Conference at the University of Notre Dame Oc­tober 23. 
More dian 200 Midwest business­men engaged in e.\-porting and allied activities are expected to attend the sessions at die Mortis Inn and the En­gineering Auditorium on the campus. Coleman, who is president of the Bur­roughs Corporation, Detroit, Mich., will address the conference banquet and Schwartz will be the luncheon speaker. 
Problems in transportation, taxation, finance, government, sales, advertising research, and cost analysis will be dis­cussed by experts in die respective fields. 
Notre Dame Mourns Archbishop's Death^ 
The recent death of Most Rev. JohrS 

F. Noll, archbishop of the Fort Waj-ne,! Indiana, diocese and a figure of na-[ tional prominence as Catholic editord and champion of motion picture cen^' sorship, left members of the Universit(»^ of Notre Dame community in a state|* of mourning when word reached tlie| campus in late July. 
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, e.\­ecudve vice president of the Univer-1 sity, acting in the absence of Rev. [ Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, presi-1 dent, said that all persons on the NotrQ^" Dame campus were "indeed deeply: saddened and grieved" to learn of the archbishop's death, and that his "cour­ageous leadership, saintly character and i manifold accomplishments endeared j him to all." 
"Notre Dame," Fadier Joyce con-M 

tinned, "felt especially blessed and honQi; 
ored by his extraordinar)' friendship f 
and generosity" for which members of I 
the University owe "gratitude and af­
fection." 
Archbishop Noll, a frequent visitor! to the South Bend-Mishawaka area, made numerous appearances at Notre s Dame, and was a principal contributory during construction of die new St. JCWM seph Cadiolic High School in South | Bend. 
Founder of the national Catholic! weekly newspaper. Our Sunday Visitor, j Archbishop Noll pioneered the work of I the National Legion of Decency andj the National Organization for Decent f-Literature. His numerous accomplish^ ments exerted a powerful national in-f" fluence in numerous fields of the| Church's acdvity. 
For more tlian 25 years. Archbishop | Noll acted as treasurer of the American! Board of Catholic Missions. He alsof was a board member of the Catholics Church Extension Society. rtki 
Our Sunday Visitor, which he# founded in Huntington, Indiana, 1912, was designed to counteract the! harm being done at the time by a largel number of anti-Catholic publications.! The paper, which he edited for 441 years, presently boasts a national week-J ly circulation of more than 800,000^; The Family Digest, which he founded| in 1908, has a 200,000 circulation. 
Over 30 full-length books were writ-; ten by the archbishop. The most wide-j ly known volume, "Father Smith In-i structs Jackson," required 80 editions.! He also authored over 150 pamphlets.1 
student Aid Directed 

By Fattier Loefaner New Notre Dame College 
Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C., has been named director of student aid at 


Started in East Pakistan 
the University of Notre Dame. During the past four years he has served as as­sistant to the vice president for aca­
^mi c affairs. 
Announcement of the appointment was made by Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, G.S.C., president of the Uni­versity. 
In his new post Father Lochner will coordinate the administration of the ttiree principal forms of student assist­

Tmce—loans, scholarships and campus employment. He will also serve as assistant director of scholarships and continue as foreign student advisor at the University. 
A native of Cleveland, Ohio, Father Lochner joined the Notre Dame fac­ulty in 1947 and, until 1953, served as 
assistant professor in the depart­ment of religion. 
He was educated at Ohio University, at the University of Notre Dame, where he received his undergraduate degree in 1937, and at the Catholic University of America, which awarded him a mas­ter's degree in 1947. He entered the 

.^ovitiate of the Congregation of Holy xiross in 1940 and was ordained in 1946. 
Play Starring 8 Nuns Wins National Praise 
Eight nuns attending the 1956 Uni­

versity of Notre Dame summer session stole the show and drew favorable na­tional reviews for their leading roles in "The Complaining Angel," a musical farce staged on the campus. Author-director of the rollicking play was Na­talie E. White, whose preceding play, "Seven Nuns at Las Vegas," was pre­
.•>!;iiered at Notre Dame in 1954. 
"The Complaining Angel" featured a nuns' ballet and eleven songs, through which were interwoven the trials of a guardian angel, exhausted by a series of tough assignments, who thinks she has a soft touch when re-assigned as a nun. 
•^ The play was the fifth in a series written and produced by Notre Dame's department of speech during the last four years. 
Previous productions besides "Seven Nuns at Las Vegas" were Natalie White's "Billion Dollar Saint" and 
Ten priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross ^vho first started operations in 1949 in a small pharmacy building in Dacca, surrounded by a Muslim-Hindu population of appraximately 42 mil­lions, have emerged with a new Notre Dame College, reputed to be one of the finest in East Pakistan. 
There were only 19 students when the Holy Cross priests opened East Pakistan's first Catholic college for men in the old pharmacy building. Enroll­ment since that time has Jumped to 325, with students pursuing courses in Arts and Science. 
In addition to the ten priests from the Congregation of Holy Cross, six Pakistani men now assist in profes­sorial duties. Rev. J. L. Martin, C.S.G., is president of the new college, and Rev. A. A. Croce, C.S.C., is vice presi­dent. 
Cornerstone for the new building was laid in 1954 at ceremonies in which His Eminence Cardinal Gracias, of Bombay, conferred the blessing. Rev. 
J. M. Rick, C.S.C., supervised con­struction of the building until its com­pletion in 1955. 
The scholastic reputation of the new college has most recently been en­hanced by the success of its graduates. 
who scored excellent grades in public examinations conducted by the Uni­versity of Dacca. Notre Dame College is now permanently affiliated \nth the University of Dacca. 
High school matriculation results were published in Jime; and since that time the new college has reportedly been flooded with applications for ad­mission. The upsurge in applications, faculty members say, is attributable to the records made by Notre Dame Col­lege graduates in the University of Dacca examinations. The college's program of regular discipline and its widened range of extra-curricular ac­tivities have also served as additional inducements for prospective students. 
Other priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross now teaching at the new college include: Rev. R. W. Timm, head, department of science; Rev. T. A. Ganguly, prefect of studies; Rev. E. A. Burke, assistant prefect of studies (arts); Rev. W. L. Graham, assbtant prefect of studies (science); Rev. C. P. Gillespie, director of sports: Rev, E. Massart, burser; and Rev. J. V. Vanden Bossche. Rev. H. L. Bride, presently on leave for study in the United States, is also an instructor there during the regular school year. 
"Domitille," by Sister Mary Francis. Notre Dame College of East Palustan. 
I


University Plans Busy Schedule Father Broughal, C.S.C.. If 
Succumbs at Age 80 ' A
For American Education Week 
I 
The University of Notre Dame will 
join hundreds of odier colleges and 
universities tliroughout the nation in 
official obser\'ance of American Edu­
cation Week, November 11 to 17. 
Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, head of tlie 
department of education, college of 
arts and letters, is chairman of the 
special committee to cooperate in the 
observance. 
More than 15 separate units witliin 
the University will conduct extra-cur­
ricular instructional programs for stu­
dents and residents of the South Bend-
Mishawaka area in cooperation with 
American Education councils. Pur­
pose of the national program is to give 
the general public a chance to leam at 
first hand about the college program, 
plans and needs. 
Notre Dame will contribute by offer­ing campus tours during the period, with open house to the public in its colleges, and a series of television pro­grams on education, in which members of the University administration will participate. 
Campus tours will be conducted in cooperation with members of the Blue Circle, student honor organization, on Sunday, November 11. Deans of the various colleges are also planning to hold open house in each of their re­spective departments, with exhibits and demonstrations by students, on the same date. 
The University's television station, WNDU-TV, is also making plans for development of a special program on education. Also, arrangements are be­

ALUMNUS Magazine 
Vol. 34, No. 5 October, 1956 Nofre Dame, Ind. 
ing made for the appearance of some 
member of tlie University administra­
tion on the local telecast. Press Con­
ference, appearing over AN'SBT-TV, 
Soudi Bend. 
Representatives from the University will also deliver a series of addresses at service club luncheons in South Bend during the week. The appearances are being coordinated by the University's department of public information. It is also in charge of arrangements for the special television appearances to be held during the same week. 

Rev. G. Cari Hager, C.S.C., has announced that the Department of Music will have two programs in the week following, to which people in the local community will be invited. The department will also stage a special program for the University's open house on November 11. 
Notre Dame's observance of Amer­ican Education ^Veek will be extended to include the annual Festival of Arts, to be held November 19 through 25 at Notre Dame and sponsored by the col­lege of arts and letters. 
Other attractions planned for the one-week obsen'ance include: a special O'Hara lecture in the college of cwn­merce; a special play to be presented by the University Theater; book ex­hibits in boUi die main librar>' and also in O'Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts, sponsored by the University librarj'; and a series of proposed dis­cussions by the Rev. Richard D. Mur­phy, C.S.C., new director of admis­sions. 
Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C.,I| a priest of the Congregation of Holyl Cross for more than 51 years, died on | August 18 at the University of Notre! Dame. He was 80. 'i 
Father Brousrhal, a former facul^i; moderator of the Notre Dame Sciio-i LASTic, weekly student publication,: taught English and philosophy at thei University from 1920 to 1951. He served as chaplain at Our Lady of Princeton Novitiate, Princeton, N. J., and at an institution of the Medic^ Mission Sisters, Mountain View, Calii., before returning to Notre Dame in 1954. 
The former SCHOLASTIC moderator, whose extensive correspondence with hundreds of his former students was a matter of legend at Notre Dame, cele­brated the golden jubilee of his ordina­tion on December 21, 1954. ^ 
He received his master's degree at tlie Quebec Laval University in 1920, and he joined the University of Notre Dame faculty soon afterward. During the same period. Father Broughal also did graduate work at Harvard and Co­lumbia Universities in the summer­time. ^ 
In 1931, the priest took time out from his duties as teacher and mod­erator to canvass the Notre Dame cam­pus, soliciting funds for the renovation of Sacred Heart Church. He personally supervised all workmen on the job in addition to having prepared the plans for redecoration. Father also was re­sponsible for installation of automatly chimes in die church steeple and for illumination of the statue at the Grotto. 
Entered as Second Class mattet I October 1, 1939, at the Post Offic^y. Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug:ust 24, 1912. 
m 
Return postage guaranteed 





