The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
UNIVKna I llr Yqflime 35 No. 3 """"^ «»r « April, 1957 
• 11 bb"*" ^ Annsticn^ '25 
•'" Editor ' 
John N. CacUey, '37 Managing Editor 

Class Dinners Feature Friday Reunion Program 
Class Reunion Weekend on June 7, 8 and 9 will be the reason for hun­; dreds of alumni to return for a visit -i^ with classmates and an opportunity to see the Notre Dame 'campus of 1957'. Advance indications promise a record turnout and all alumni who plan to attend the festivities are urged to send their reservations no later than May 1 
i to the Alumni Office. 
VI 
Class dinners will be the feature of the Friday night program with the following groups: those celebrating their Golden Jubilee, the men of 1907; 1912; 1917; 1922; 1927; the twenty­fivc-year-out "boys", 1932; 1937; 1942; 1947: and, 1952. 
Reunion Travel Plan 

Of special interest to all alumni returning for the Class Reunion Weekend is the announcement that any group of three or more adults can purchase an economy plan type of round-trip ticket and save almost 25% of the regular fare. This ap­plies only to coach travel but the accommodations are first class and include all of the luxury trains. It is suggested that interested alumni should confer with their railroad ticket agent concerning the "Econ­omy Group Plan." 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., 

-
 president of the University, and J. Patrick Canny, Cleveland, O., presi­dent of the Alumni Association, will be 

-
 the principal speakers at the Saturday night Alunmi banquet for all classes. The Notre Dame Law Association ^vill 


have its customar)' meeting on Satur­day afternoon in the Law School build­ing. The monogram club has sched­uled its annual get-together on Satur­day afternoon. This group will also have a golf tournament on Thursday preceding the Reunion Program. 
General registration will begin on Friday afternoon and the following residence halls have been reserved for returning alumni: Alumni, 1907, 1912, 1917 and 1922: Dillon, 1937, 1942; Howard, 1927; Morrissey, 1947, 1952; and Lyons, 1932. 
Memorial Masses for deceased class­mates will be held Saturday morning in the various halls accommodating reunion classes. An all-day golf tourney is an athletic highlight of the program on Saturday. Other events, to be an-

EMPLOYMENT AT NOTRE DAME 

An excellent opportunity is available for a Notre Dame alumnus who is interested in a public relations position at die ' University. Desirable qualifica-' tions should include: ability.to write and edit for publications;;, public speaking; and experiencejg in otganizadonal work. 
All replies will be kept stricdy confidential. Please address ap­plication to: ur 
bis Alumni Association 
University of Notre Dair 
Box 81 
Notre Dame, Indiana.' 
— ,. —I.I »• 

nounced later, will provide an ex­
tremely interesting and attractive week­
end for the ten classes who are'6b-" 
serving their anniversaries as alumni 
of Notre Dame. 
Local Chairmen met with the .Alumni Office staff to discuss the Class Reunion Weekend Program scheduled on June 7, 8 and 9. Left to right: Jerry Claeys, '37; Herb Jones, '27; John Cackley, Alumni Office; Jim Murphy, '47; Frank Miles, '22; Dominic Napolitaiio, '32; Harry Kochler, '37; and Jim Armstrong, Alumni Secretary. Geoi^e Stratigos, '42, and John Powers, '32, were absent when photo was taken. 

Alumni Advance Sale Opens On June 20, Closes July 15 
BY ROBERT CAHILL, '34 Ticket Manager 
Here again are the basic points of football ticket distribution policy, in effect for the past several years. And once more we respectfully suggest that a little attention to this information now may make it easier for you to obt^n tickets, to obtain better tickets, 
help you to understand in the event 
u don't receive choice tickets. 
Contributors to the Fourteenth An­"nual Alumni Fund in 1956 plus religious and honorar>' degree hold­ers, are eligible for Advance Sale 
•^er forms for 1957. (THIS year's itribution establishes or continues 
--^.oference for 1958.) Graduates of January and June, 1957, will get these special forms in their first year as alumni, whether or not they are contributors. 
2.
 Alumni Advance Sale opens June 20, closes July 15. 

3.
 Advance Sale order forms are good for TWO tickets per game, are not transferable, \x'ill be honored until July 15 or until the ticket supply is exhausted, whicliever occurs first. Using the best seats available in the alumni sections (see diagram) these orders are filled according to date received, beginning widi June 

20. (No date prior to June 20 is recognized.) Geographical restric­tions will probably be necessary for games with Michigan State at Lansing and Oklahoma at Norman. 

4.
 General-Use applications will be sent to ALL alumni the latter part of July, but perhaps not for all games. It is already evident that public sale will not be possible for Michigan State and Oklahoma; and perhaps after Alumni sale closes July 15, others such as Army or 


Navy might be closed out. If so, no General-Use blanks will be re­leased for such games, but it is our opinion now (March 25) that the Army game as well as Navy will permit general sale, in limited quantity. These General-Use forms afford the contributing alumnus an opportunity to order additional tickets for most games. To the non-contributor they serve as a source of tickets ahead of tlie general pub­lic, even though he is not eligible for the Advance Sale. The Gen­eral-Use forms are transferable and in most cases valid for more than two tickets. They do not, of course, carry any locational preference, for such orders are filled AFTER Ad­vance Sale purchases. 
5.
 Public sale will open August 1. The Ticket Committee will gladly send public order forms to any addressee as long as tickets are available. Also, the Committee will be glad to send a half-dozen or more forms to any alumnus upon request. Many times the mere availability of an order form for a friend or business ac­quaintance will do the job and put the burden of ticket-ordering on the individual making the request. 

6.
 Alumni Clubs desiring a bloc of tickets for an excursion must file their request with the Ticket Man­ager before June 20. Accommoda­tion of group requests is entirely contingent on total Alumni Ad­vance sale, which closes July 15. No decisions regarding bloc orders can be made until that time. As to location of group orders, we re­iterate to all Club officers — seals available to Clubs or any other groups can come only from the least desirable portion of our ticket al­lotment—from what remains after filling all indi\'idual orders. For most games away from home, large bloc orders are no longer possible 


BOB CAHILL 

The author admittedly didn't sell > tickets for Notre Dame's first athletic contest—it occurred a few years before he graduated—but there's no doubt that he has disposed of more ducats than any other ticket manager in Notre Dame annals. For example, he re-; ceives about 500,000 requests each year from football fans—actually there is only space available for 300,000 person^. And for the information of those peren­nial skeptics there are just 222 seats on the 50-yard line. Although he doesn't see many games — too dern busy — Bob Cahill does a tremendously efficient job in satisfying the demands from alumni and other friends who want to zvatch the Fighting Irish in action. 
due to the relatively small allot-, ments we receive as the visiting team. 

That Matter of Seat Locations . . . Last year, more so than any year in our experience, more alumni made a concerted effort to send their ticket' orders early. As one of the results, we received several inquiries (and com­plaints, too) from alumni whose orders ' were in on the very first day and who yet received the less desirable seats. Also, many who sent in orders imme- .' diately upon receipt of their blanks wound up in good seats for Oklahoma: ' end zone for Michigan State; or vice versa; or end zone for both. (We didn't hear from those who received good • seats for both games. We suppose they would say that the shock was too 
much!) Because almost every inquiry stemmed from a lack of knowledge of the mechanics of our Alumni Advance sale, we think it might be well to de­scribe here exactly what happens. 
Annually, the Advance Sale to con­tributing alumni begins on June 20. The Alumni Association addresses the envelopes for the Ticket Committee which then sees to the proper order form enclosures and mailing. The mailing of these envelopes is staggered, beginning about June 10 with those in the Far West, Central America, Can­ada, etc., and closing with South Bend and environs on June 19. Due to the vagaries of the mail service, these orders start whipping back to us about June 15. HOWEVER, (and this is probably the part that is most mis­understood) all orders received before June 20 are held until the close of busi­ness on June 20. Then all these orders received before and on June 20 are thoroughly shuffled together. In the next step, a clerk then draws out the orders one at a time, at random for each game, assigning consecutive serial numbers beginning with No. 1. In the case of Michigan State and Oklahoma 
last year (they represented the biggest 
demand) these first-day orders totaled, 
for Michigan State, 6,739 tickets; and 
for Oklahoma, 7,570 tickets! At two 
tickets each, this means that 3,369 
alumni orders for State and 3,785 for 
Oklahoma were filled as of June 20 
receipt. The first order for the second 
day, then, bore a consecutive serial 
number of 3,370 for State, and 3,786 
for Oklahoma. Consulting the diagram 
for a moment, we find that after de­
ducting Season Tickets and the Mono­
gram section from Alumni sections No. 
8 and No. 9, we have about 1,600 
tickets available to alumni orders be­
tween the thirty-five and fifty yard 
lines; and about 4,000 total available 
between the goal and the fifty. Com­
pare, then, the tickets sold for the 
FIRST DAY ALONE, to the figures 
of seats available and the answers to 
most questions become obvious. Even 
though an order is counted in the very 
first day of sale, the luck of the draw 
can make the difference between a 
seat on the fifty and one in the end 
zone. Orders received at later dates 
of course, for the "big" games, cannot 
possibly be well located. 
NOTRE DAME STADIUM 

GATCa-4 
1957 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 

Sept. 28—Purdue at Lafayette 
Oct. 3—Indiana at Notre Dame 12—^Anny at Philadelphia 19—Open 26—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame 
Nov. 2—^Navy at Notre Dame 
9—Michigan State at lapsing 16—Oklahoma at Norman 23—Iowa at Notre Dame 30—So. CaL at Notre Dame 

Dec. 7—So. Methodist at Dallas 
Perhaps we have been at fault by not going into great detail beM^?, but the deluge of early orders for tS^ two games last fall simply magnified the drawbacks of our supply-demand prob­lem to the extent- that the' prompt order now needs, in addition, a lot of luck in the draw to produce that de­sired spot on the fifty—or even the twenty. 
We hope this bit of detail has- been helpful; and we also hope that our problems will continue to bs of this nature! f 
K7Wsi 11 



mm rr^^ta^^ KS 
TOOXES^ 
;VAv"i-:?;*r-:-":*f-V/^%VAVi:-'"' ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^•S^fei^: 
^^^^^^^^^ 
^^k^^^m^^^m 
 Alumni (as required) 
 Season Tickets and Faculty  V'»'«»9 Team (as required! University Administration oATe-fO,  Student Body  ParenH of Students Single Game Sale 

ATCll

em-n 
"am-ld 

cArc-14 
Nor 'baa man' in the Alumni Association is J. Patrick Canny, who was elected president tQL.:taccet^ Joseph L O'Neill, Jr. Left to right: Patrick J. Fisher, Club Vice-President; 'Alubiii Secretary James E. Armstrong; Caimy; O'Neill; John W. Brennan, Class Vice-President; and Joseph E. Whalen, Fund Vice-President. 




i, / 

AT CANNY ELECTED ALllMNI PRESIDENT 
, f J. ^atrick Canny, '28, Cleveland, O., 
•"-vfia-fAxted • president of-Notre -Dame's 26,000 alumni at the annual \vinter meeting of the Board of Directors held on campus during the weekend of Feb. 22-23. He succeeds Joseph I. O'Neill, Jr., '36, Midland, Texas, who will serve as honorary president for 1957. Canny's term of office also is of one year du­ration. 
Other officers elected are as follows: Patrick J. Fisher, '36, Indianapolis, Indiana, club vice-president; John W. 
ALUAANUS Magazine 
Vol. 35, No. 3 
April. 1957 

Notre Dame, Ind. 
Brennan, '27, Detroit, Mich., class 
vice-president; Joseph E. Whalen, '29, 
Des Moines, Iowa, fund vice-president; 
and James E. Armstrong, '25, secretary." 
Retiring directors of the Alumni 

Board include: Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17, Pittsburgh, Pa.; John E. Mclntyre, -'3 Ij-South Bend,-Ind. ;-Robcrt-HrGore; ­Jr.-, '31, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; and James L. Ferstel, '48, Chicago, 111. Gore and new director Raymond W. Durst, '26, Chicago, III., were unavoid­
ably absent from the meeting. 
Others who were in attendance in­cluded Edmond R. Haggar, '38, Dal­las, Tex.; Leo J. Vogel, Sr., '17, Pitts­burgh, Pa.; Eugene M. Kennedy, '22, Los Angeles, Calif.; Jules K. de la Vergne, '33. New Orleans, La.; Oscar John Dorwin, '17, New York City; Francis L. Layden, '36, Evansville, Ind.; and William E. Cotter, Jr., '41, Duluth, Minn. 
The opening session was a talk by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, Ex­ecutive Vice President, who described the various aspects of progress at the University. Other administrative of­ficials who addressed the Board were Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, Di­rector of the Notre Dame Foundation, Rev. Louis Thornton, C.S.C;, Place­ment Director and Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, Associate Director of the Foundation. 
The group listened to the speech given by Sen. John Kennedy when he received the senior class' "Patriot of the Year" award in the University drill hall on Friday night. Customary com­mittee reports were submitted by the various chairmen and accepted by the members present. The Board's next ' meeting will be held prior to the Class Reunion Weekend on June 7, 8 and 9. 



Need Dining Hail Assistant Director 
With jh e opening of the new Dining Hall in the fall, the Uni­versity is in need of an Assistant Director of Dining Halls. The University Personnel Office is interested in receiving applica­tions from Notre Dame gradu­ates who are experienced in this field. Please write to Mr. Joseph 
F. O'Brien, Director of Person­nel, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Entered as Second Class matter October 1, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of August 24, 1912. 

Notre Dame Library Notre Dame., Indiaiia 
Betum postage guaranteed 





