The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

THE NOTRE MMF­
ALUMNUS 
REV. MICHAEL J. SHEA, A.B., '04 

Composer of "Victory March" Music Recipient of Major Monosram, November 23, 1935 
DECEMBER, 1935 

SPECIAL LOW ROOM RATES. A CORDIAL WELCOME AND EVERY CONCEIVABLE FACILITY. COURTESY AND SERVICE ARE AVAILABLE TO 
Notre Dame Alumni^ Student Body and Faculty 
ONE OF CHICAGO'S VERY NEWEST, VERY FINEST HOTELS 
"As Modern As Tomorrow" 

450 guest rooms, each outside, spacious, beautifully furnished and each equipped with bath and shower combination, Servidor, circulating ice water and every other convenience for your comfort. 


THREE COLORFUL RESTAURANTS 
INCLUDING POPULAR-PRICED COFFEE SHOP 
TEN PRIVATE DINING ROOMS and BALLROOMS 
With capacities of from ten to twelve hundred persons 
and providing for dances, dinner-dances, banquets, suppers, meetings and social affairs of every description, at low prices. 


Be Sure to see our new 
All lobbies, restaurants, ballrooms and 



NOTRE DAME 
private dining rooms are air-conditioned 


ROOM 

or equipped with cross ventilation. 
HOTEL KNICKERBOCKER 

Walton Place Just East of Michigan Boulevard 


CHICAGO 
ALLAN G. HURST 
Manager 



The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The masazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, 75 Member of tfie American 
Editor Alumni Council. 
a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 
WILLIAM R . DOOLEY, '26 ' Member of Nat*l. Catholic 
1923. at the post ofHce at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All Managing Editor correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 81, Notre Dame. Ind. Alumni Federation. 
Vol. XIV. December, 1935 No. 3 
President Roosevelt Will Visit Notre Dame 
Carlos P. Romulo To Receive Honorary Degree with President; George Cardinal Mundelein To Attend Ceremonies; 
President Fi-anklin D. Roosevelt 

•n-ill be guest of the University of Notre Dame on December 9, it was announced after a visit to the White House by the Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.SlC, president of the University. 
The chief executive ^\-iU take part at Notre Dame in the observance of a Philippine Day tribute to the new republic of the Far East. This pro­gram was originally planned for No­vember 15, but has been postponed out of deference to the President who indicated a desire to take part in the ceremony. 
In addition to numerous other na­tionally known persons. His Excel­lency, George Cardinal Mundelein, of Chicago, has accepted an imntation to attend the observance. 
The ceremony has been planned not only as a tribute to the republic but to mark the close relations which have long existed between the Uni­versity and the Spanish speaking countries of the world, including the Philippines and Central and South America. 
In connection with the ceremony, University officials wU bestow the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws and Letters on Carlos P. Romulo, member of several Philippine inde­pendence committees to this country and also a member of the board of regents of the University of the Philippines. Dr. Romulo is the head of the D. M. H. M., a newspaper syndicate in the Philippine Islands, and is now in this country studying recent advances in American jour­nalism. 
This will be the third time that an honorary degree has been awarded by the University of Notre Dame at a special convocation. The first was on the occasion of Gilbert K. Chester­ton's visit in 1931, and the second when Count Guglielmo Marconi was the guest of the University in 1933. 
Notre Dame's roster of graduates from the Philippines numbers more than 50 names, and it is believed that the recognition here will aid in 
Committees Are Appointed For Event. 
cementing the cordial relations which 
now exist between this country and 
the infant republic. 
Committees appointed by .Father O'Hara to direct arrangenients for 
CARLOS P. ROMULO 
Notre Dame to Honor Him 

the President's visit include: the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C. S. C, vice president of the university, as general chairman; the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies as chairman of the invitations and program committee, assisted by the Rev. B. J. Ill, C.S.C, the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, and James E. Armstrong. 
The gymnasium will be enlarged to seat more than 5,000 persons. Seating, arrangements and ushering will be directed by the Rev. Francis 
J. Boland. C.S.C, the Rev. George Holderith. C.S.C, the Rev. John Far­ley, C.S.C, J. Arthur Haley and Rob­ert Riordan. 
A civic relations and three recep­tion committees, which will include South Bend persons, will be an­nounced by Bernard J. VoU, chair­man of the group and national presi­dent of the Notre Dame Alumni As­sociation. 

Press publicijy will be directed by Thomas J. Barry and William R. Dooley. Transportation will be under the guidance of the Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C, and Francis Jones, president of the St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame Club. The dining hall will be in charge of E. F. Connelly. 
The University Choir of Moreaa Seminary is to sing the Philippine national anthem in Spanish, as the keynote of the function. 
The University band will escort the President's car with the recep­tion group as it reaches the campus. Members of the faculty and the Sen­ior Class will participate, wearing cap and gown. 
Separat e reception committees have been appointed to greet his President, Mr. Romulo and His Emi­nence, George Cardinal Mundelein. 
AQIVE IN N. C A. F. 

Chicago alumni are contributing a large share to the success of the suc­cessful activities of the Chicago Chapter of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. Ray Gallagher is vice-president of the chapter, Tom Oakes is secretary, and Jack Scallan, president of the Notre Dame club of Chicago, is a member of the executive committee. 

OPERATE ON FITZGERALD 

Desmond Fitzgerald, noted Irish statesman and member of the Notre Dame faculty for a portion of the first semester, has made a satisfactory recovery following an operation for mastoid in St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, on November 4. Mr. Fitzgerald's classes and weekly lec­tures, the latter in Washington Hall, were, of course, discontinued tem­porarily. 


// -Two-Minute Men Finish Successful Season 
Win Four Games in Total of Less than Seven Minutes of Play; Ohio State Victory is High Point of Season; Nineteen Seniors Finish Competition. 
The Two-Minute Men, Notre Dame's footballers of 1935, have con­cluded a season which ranks as the greatest since Knute Rockne turned out his national championship 1930 eleven. It is the greatest by a mat­ter of less than seven minutes of play; two against Pitt, two against Ohio State, something less than one against Army, and two against South-em California. 
During these less-than-seven min­utes, this great team scored 27 points, enough for two victories, assurance of a third, and a tie with Army. 
Nineteen seniors, 17 of them let­termen in 1934, will be graduated in June with the knowledge behind them that all the old rules about persever­ance and determination still go. Not only did many of them play in 1933 when Notre Dame lost five games, tied one, and won three, but all of them were at least out for football that year. The next year they went out and won 6 out of 9 games. This year their records read: won 7, tied 
1, lost 1. On paper this team still is not as great, perhaps, as the 1931 team which won 6, tied 1, and lost 1, or the 1932 team which won 7 and lost 
2. On paper it never was much of a football team, but fortunately foot­ball games are not played on paper. 
When Coach Jock Sutherland of Pittsburgh designed his punt defense, he didn't figure on Bill (The Bard) Shakespeare, sometimes called the merchant of menace, kicking the ball over the head of his safety man for a net gain from scrimmage of 82 yards. When he diagrammed his own punt formation, he didn't figure on Irish linemen breaking through, rush­ing the kick by Patrick which bounded backwards from his 45 to his 21 yard line, paving the way for Notre Dame's tying touchdown. "There was nothing that paper and pencil could do about the field goal Marty Peters kicked in that game with two minutes left to play to win it, 9 to 6. 
TONY MAZZIOTTI 
He helped at Columbus 
By Joiepb Petritz, '32 
ANDY PILNEY 
The Real Scourge. 
Coach Francis Schmidt of Ohio State two weeks later sent his team on the field equipped with the most dazzling offense of the year, mixed with power, and great defensive abil­itj'. But when that shock troop line went to work on the Buckeye offense, it failed to net a yard from scrim­mage the entire second half. Schmidt hadn't reckoned on a bunch of blood­thirsty maniacs in his backfield. He hadn't reckoned, either, with Handy Andy Pilney, who set 80,000 fans in­to the wildest frenxy football has even seen with his superb passing, running, and kicking. His defense had a man there to stop Mike Layden from catching a pass on the one-yard line and driving over from there for a touchdown, but Mike was on the field and not on paper. He jumped a little higher than the Buckeye defender, got the ball from Pilney's hand, and struggled over to make the score 13 to 12 for Ohio State, after the Buck­eyes had scored tivice in the first half with ridiculous ease and Steve Miller had plunged over early in the fourth period with the first Notre Dame touchdown. 
Schmidt, in fact, had a pet offen­sive play, simple and successful, a weapon he considered the proper con­servative play for his quarterback to call with only seconds remaining to play. Two blockers preceded Dick Beltz through a hole at his right tackle on this particular play. Larry Danbom, defensive fullback, brushed them aside and grabbed Beltz by the shoulders. Pilney, coming up a mile a minute from the second line of the secondary then belted Beltz around the knees with the gentle touch of a telephon e pole being propelled through the air in a tornado. Figure it out. Beltz was held at the top and jarred at the bottom. He fumbled. Henry Poiman recovered for Notre Dame. Pilney then ran 26 yards to the .19-yard line in what many an old footballer said was an exhibition sur­passing anything even the immortal George Gipp ever did in a particular instance in a single game. Finally, when three Buckeyes hit him simul­taneously, hut hard, Pilney was stopped, not only for the moment, but until the last two minutes of the final game with Southern California. 
But Bill, the Bard, came in and promptly passed to Wayne Millner for the touchdown which won, 18 to 13, while Pilney, reclining on his stretcher smack behind the goal posts, said, "Yeah, I knew we'd win." This remark deserves immortality, for Pil­ney and his inspired shock troops were, indeed, the only 11 persons out of this vast throng of 80,000, plus the millions of radio listeners, who did know Notre Dame would win. Coach Elmer Layden didn't know it, and after the game was over, he an­swered the congratulations of fans, one and all, with a quiet "Thanks, but the boys won that one and the coaches don't deserve a bit of the credit." 
Millner caught that pass with 40 seconds of play, but we figure in two full minutes for the Ohio State game since the Irish scored two touchdowns during that time. 

Against Army, with the inspired Cadets leading, 6 to 0, going into the last two minutes, just after Monk Meyer had run the ball 50 yards into Notre Dame territory and the cause seemed hopeless, the Irish took off at their own 15-yard line and crossed the goal line 85 yards away with 30 seconds to spare. Passes from Shake­speare to Layden and Fromhart, from Layden to Fromhart, and from Shake­speare to Millner, plus some of the finest running of the season by the Bard of Staten Island, and that added to Larry Danbom's plunge from the 
HENRY POJMAN 
Recovered that fumble. 

December, 1935 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
two-yard line brought about the de­sired touchdown. Lieut. Gar David­son, of Army, had a defense which on paper had those Notre Dame passes and runs stopped. On the field it was equally successful for 58 min­utes. But he didn't know that the best defense against Notre Dame would have been a fast field judge's watch. 
Two minutes to go against South-em California and the Notre Dame careers of 19 seniors would be over, as far as football activity was con­cerned. Notre Dame was leading, 14 to 13, and it looked like the Irish might chalk up their fourth one-point victor}^ over the Trojans. Then it looked like the Trojans might turn defeat into victory. They bounded along from their own 43 yard line to Notre Dame's 45. Then Glenn Thompson unleashed a long pass down the middle and a little to the left. Wally Fromhart was standing there as if he were Thompson's tar­get. Before he caught the ball, his mates knew it was coming to him and they left the men they were sup­posed to cover and ran up to get ahead of Wally. A screen of three of them formed a protecting line to midfield—he had caught the ball on his 20-yard line — fresh blockers drifted in, Wally cut, squirmed, drove and fought. They nearly pinned him to the sideline at the Trojan 30-yard line, but he stopped dead, cut back to his left toward the middle of the field and was off on this new angle, when Jim Sutherland of S. 0. came up from the side and headed him back to the sideline, finally dumping him on the seven-yard line. Probable defeat had been turned into certain victor}', whether Notre Dame scored or not. 
Wally didn't stop to thrill at his great accomplishment. Thinking with the same brilliance his speedy legs had exhibited on that run, he told Shakespeare, for the first time in his career, to line up at right halfback. The backfield shifted left, the ball came back to Shakespeare, and he made a bee-line for the left side of the field, scoring by beating out Sutherland in the race for the comer of the field. 
Thus Fromhart, Shakespeare, and their mates wound up the season, 19 of them their careers for Notre Dame, 
BASKETBALL 
A 25-game schedule, the most am­

bitious carded for Notre Dame since George E. Keogan became basketball . coach in 1925, has been announced by Athletic Director Elmer F. Layden. 
Four of the games will be played on two nights in double headers which feature the early season card. Seven games with five Big Ten teams, and five intersectional contests , plus games with such traditionally strong rivals as Marquette and Butler, make the card the most difficult ever at­tempted by a Notre Dame team. 
Following is the complete card: 

Nov. 30—^Albion here (clinic pamc). Dec -1—St. Mary's and Kalamazoo here. Dec 7—St. Joseph and James Milliken here. Dec. 11—^\VashinBton V. at St. Louis. Dec. 16—Northwestern here. 
Dec. 23—Purdue at Lafayette. 
Dec. 31—^Northwestern at Evanston. Jan. 4—Minnesota at Minneapolis. Jan. 10—PittsburBh at Pittsburgh Jan. 14—Alarquette here. Jan. IS—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia Jan. 20—Syracuse at Syracuse, Jan. 23—Butler here. Feb. 1—St. Benedict's here. Feb. 5—Illinois here. Feb. 10—Kentucky* here. Feb. 14 New York U at N. Y. (Madison Sa-) Feb. 22—Pittsburgh here. Feb. 23—Minnesota here Feb. 29—Butler at Indianapolis. Mar. 4—Ohio State here. Mar. 7—Marquette t Milwaukee Mar. 10—U. ot Detroit at Detroit. 
having made for themselves the repu­tation of being only a fair team on paper with a weak link here, a ter­rible hole there — but a team with heart, team that could block, tackle, run, throw and catch passes, and do everything else it had to do, when it had to do it. 
The Northwestern game was some­thing else again. Northwestern won, 14 to 7, and the expected fireworks never came off, although Shakespeare, with only three minutes to play broke loose around right end on the Wild­cat 47 yard line and was finally brought down on the 11-yard stripe. And long passes from Shakespeare just barely failed to connect with the outstretched arms of the doughty Millner, who was covered at all times by tsvo or more Wildcat defenders. It was a great victory for Northwest-em. It was not a hard game for Notre Dame to lose. Notre Dame had won from Northwestern every time the teams met since 1901, except for the scoreless ties of 1903 and 1931. Notre Dame had just beaten Ohio State the week before and had spent every ounce of nervous and physical energy—and these were slow in re­turning. Andy Pilney, Dick Pfefferle, and Fred Carideo did not play be­cause of injuries. The field was wet. Don Elser scored a touchdown at .the start which was called back because of an alleged infraction of the rules. Northwestern had been coming along week by week and without a doubt had reached a great peak, playing near - perfect football against the Irish. None of this is meant to de­tract from a fine Northwestern team, and from Coach Lynn Waldorf, whose diagrams worked out better on the field than the plans of any of his col­leagues in the Association of Coaches of Notre Dame Opponents of 1935. 
The Northwestern and Navy games were the only ones out of the last six in which the Irish failed to win or tie in the closing seconds of play. It wasn't necessary against Navy, for, after the varsity had fooled around for 15 minutes. Quarterback Frankie Gaul and his "very good shock troops team," to use his expression, entered the game. Gaul caught a pass from Andy Pilney and ran some 40 yards to score. A few moments later Mike Layden, making his first appearance since the Wisconsin game, scored on another pass from Pilney. Ken Stil­ley kicked both extra points from placement and the scoring was over. The varsity came back in for the last seven minutes of the first half, and then Coach Layden began to use the reserves, who held Navy at bay the entire second half. 
When we echoed the prediction of the coaches last September and said Notre Dame would not be a great team, we were fooled by the differ­ence between paper teams and flesh and blood teams. Notre Dame had lost Dominic Vairo and Rocco Schi­ralli by graduation. Capt. Joe Sulli­van had died. Bill Smith was lost because of an operation. Jack Rob­inson was lost on a technicality af­fecting his eligibility. After the Wis­consin game, John Michuta was lost for the rest of the season, except for a few minutes of the Southern Cali­
(Continued on Page 70) 

Q0UL C/?OAri/w yvifLLSK^ KUBTZ
SriLLEI £t.S£K. 


CENTRAL OHIO CLUB DIRECTS GALA WEEK-END PROGRAM IN COLUMBUS 
By DICK DEVINE, '20, Staff Writer, Columbus "Dispatch" 
LAX TRUSTEES PASS GUSHING RESOLUTIONS 
The Board of Lay Trustees of the University at its meeting on Novem­ber 8 passed the following resolutions: 
"V/hereas, the members of the Board of Lay Trustees of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame have learned with regret and deep sorrow of the death of their colleague, John F. Cushing, Member of the Board, and, 
"Whereas, the deceased, through his membership on this Board and his unselfish loyalty to the interests of the University, as witnessed by his untiring service in various advisory capacities and in establishing at the University the College of Engineer­ing, has won the esteem and affection of all true friends of Notre Dame; therefore be it 
"Resolved, That we deeply deplore the loss which the Board of Lay Trustees has sustained in the death of our esteemed colleague, and we offer to his family our heartfelt sym­pathy, and be it further 
"Resolved, That this resolution be inscribed in the permanent record of the Board of Lay Trustees and that the Secretary of the Board be in­structed to send a copy of it to the family of our departed friend." 
(Signed) Byron V. Kanaley 

Chairman of the Board. Notre Dame, Indiana November 8, 1935. 
played quarterback on the 1912 team and is now an attorney in Columbus. Fellow barrister of the class of '20, Harry P. Nester, was in charge of finances. 
Others of various classes and serv­ing in other capacities for the ar­rangements include: John Loder, Don Haverick, John Fontana, John Varley, Dan Cannon, T. J. Sheehan, S. L. Trumbull, Paul McDonald, Tom Ed­mondson, F. I. Zeigler, Dr. Mitchell Dunn,, Edward Cantwell, Dr. Paul Scofield, Al Varley, William Wilhel­my, Frank Vogel, Frank Jaeger, Jr., Frank Shay, Edward Power. 
Willia m Seidensticker, Stewart O'Brien, Al Muth, W. P. Bresnahan, James Morrow, W. J. Moore, John Q. Carey, 0. W. Crepeau, Alex Domby, Edward Moriarity, T. B. De^^ne, Jack Jaeger, L, J. Murphy, Jr., W. C. Mil­ler, Arch P. Davis, Robert Hayes, Dr. James Flannigan, Dr. J. Q. Dorgan, George Falkenback, Judge McBride, James J. Hughes and Dick Devine. 
A volume could be filled \vith stories about the final quarter of the Ohio State game. 
With such natural rivals apart for so many years it was only to be ex­pected that when Notre Dame and OJiio State met this Fall on the grid­iron e%'ery effort would be made to mark the event for all time as out­standing in the history of both uni­versities and their alumni. 
With this in mind the Notre Dame short talk to the alumni of both schools and press representatives. Schmidt concluded his talk by "wish­ing Elmer the best of luck but not too much" and Layden responded by saying he hoped to keep the score down to 40 points. 

Friday night saw an influx of old grads from N.D. and most of them 
Mayor Worley presents the key to Coluvihiis to Elmer Layden while Jack Cannon looks on. Ray Eichenlaub was just to Elmer's right. 
Club of Central Ohio started prepara­tions early in August for the celebra­tion attending the November 2 game. j*t its weekly luncheon and, later at more frequent meetings, the nucleus '^f approximately 40 men in and near Columbus mulled over plans for the occasion. 
While some were unable, because of personal obligations, to do as much as others, all entered the spirit of the affair and, under the leadership of Ray Eichenlaub, famous in N.D. an­nals as the fullback on the Dorais-Eockne team, a Friday luncheon, Fri­day night rally and Saturday night victorj' dance were staged. 
Of course, the team of '35 made the dance a celebration rather than a mere dance but Notre Dame men have become accustomed to the team doing just that. Arrival of the team Friday morning was delayed by a train wreck and it was almost noon before they had attended Mass and eaten breakfast at St. Charles Bor­romeo. College near the city limits. The college, fostered through the last ten years by Et. Rev. James J. Hart­ley, bishop of Columbus, extended every courtesy to the visitors even the bishop himself making a short ad­dress to the team, which must have been an inspiration. 
Meantime Layden was rushed downtown to the Deshler Wallick hotel where, with Coach Francis Schmidt of Ohio State, he made a renewed acquaintances at the Deshler Wallick party. 
Saturday's game probably brought more Notre Dame sympathizers to central Ohio than had ever been here before for any occasion. It is only fair to say, in passing, that despite the celebration which always follows such an exciting game, ther were no fatal auto accidents and few of a serious nature in central Ohio over the week-end. 
That the goal posts from Ohio's stadium were found an hour after the game in the lobby of the Deshler Wallick hotel seemed to occasion much surprise on the part of local fans. And, following the goal po.sts, came N.D. men of all years to attend the dance in the hotel's hall of mir­rors and exchange reminiscences of other victories. 
To mention only a few of those who helped with the arrangements for entertainment in Columbus is to bring to mind Jack Cannon, all-American guard in '28 and '29, who with Eichenlaub took an outstanding part in perfecting the arrangements. Eich is in the insurance business and Jack, who has coached at Auburn and Georgia Tech since leaving school, is in the bond business. Ed­ward Gerlach, belying his years of loyalty to Notre Dame, joined with the youngsters and acted as general chairman for the affair. 
Then there was Don Hamilton, who 


OHIO OIL COMPANY 


NEW BUILDINGS, ACADEMIC GROWTH 
PERMITS BROADCAST 


ARE ANNOUNCED BY FATHER O'HARA 
Prom coast to coast have come warmly enthusiastic comments on the radio accounts of the Ohio State game. One seminarian out in Oregon (not a C.S.C. either) lost a tooth when a brother seminarian let go with a lusty backward swing with his elbow in the final hectic minutes. Canadian alumni scattered through the Dominion celebrated with their States brethren. 
A father in the Middle West scared his children to the point of tears when he "hit the ceiling" after the winning touchdown in the fourth quarter. Overjoyed students on the campus nearly burst through the walls of the residence halls. And the local publications are flooded with verse contributions from writers in all pai-ts of the country who were in­spired by the radio story of the heroic Notre Dame come-back. 
All of which was made possible largely by the generosity of the Ohio Oil Company, through its president. Otto D. Donnell, in permitting the radio chains to broadcast the game. By previous ari-angements with Ohio State University, the Ohio Oil Com­pany held exclusive radio rights. The following telegrams reveal the con­siderate attitude of Mr. Donnell and his associates, an attitude which is deeply appreciated by the Notre Dame supporters everywhere. 
October 30. 103S 

Mr. Otto D. Donnell. 
President. Ohio Oil Company, 
Findlay, Ohio. 
Perhaps I am not addrcssinir the right person but Notre Dame alumni in the state of Ohio have informed me that the Ohio Oil Company controls the rights for broadcastinR ne.\t Sat­urday's football game between Notre Dame and Ohio State universities. Stop. While ar­rangements for such broadcasts are always made by the school in whose stadium the game is played, there is tremendous pressure nationwide in scope on Notre Dame to use its good ofiices to allow the national broadasting chains to handle the game outside the state of Ohio. Stop. In n similar situation last De­cember the Associates Oil company in San Francisco allowed the Columbia Broadcasting Company to broadcast this side of the Rocky Mountains a favor that was deeply appreciated by fans all over the country. Stop. If the Ohio Oil Company can sec its way clear to grant the privilege requested we will do all on our part to make the generosity known to our supporters. Stop. We will appreciate whatever you can do to relieve this situation which has become embarrassing to us. 
Rev. John F. O'Hara, President. 

October 31. 1035 Rev. John F. 0"Hara, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Message received. We fully appreciate na­tion wid^ interest in Notre Dame-Ohio State 
Plans for extensive developments, including construction of several new buildings, and expansion of scientific and graduate research, were outlined on November 8 by the Rev. John F. O'Hai-a, C.S.C, president of the Uni­versity. 
The announcement was in the form of a report to the members of the board of lay trustees of the Univer­sity who held their semi-annual meet­ing on the eve of the Notre Dame-Northwestern football game. 
The proposed construction will in­volve the expenditure of more than $700,000 for two new residence halls, a biology building, and a faculty house for members of the Commun­ity. This is in addition to $315,000 spent during the past year for a new students' infirmary, the remodeling of Howard Hall, and landscaping of a large section of the present campus. 
Father O'Hara laid special stress on plans for a more comprehensive research program in the fields of biol­ogy, chemistiy, and engineering where Notre Dame scientists have gained international recognition during re­cent years. Outstanding among their accomplishments was discovery of a process for the manufacture of syn­thetic rubber by Father Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C, and the announce­ment by Professor J. A. Eeyniers of the successful raising of germ-free guinea pigs for experimental pur­poses. 
Cash awards to the University for the establishment of scholarship and endowment funds during the past year amounted to $75,000. In addi­tion works of art, valued at more than $50,000, were added to the gal­lei-ies of the school and numerous gifts of statuarj', fossils and herbar­ium specimens have enriched the other collections on the campus. The-cash gifts included $15,000 from the 
football game and have just completed ar­rangements which will permit broadcast by not only the National but Columbia and Mu­tual systems as well. 
O. D. Donnell. 

President O. D. Donnell, Ohio Oil Company. Findlay, Ohio. 
I learn with great satisfaction that through your good offices facilities have been provided for all the national chains to carry the broad­cast of Saturday's gtme. Stop. I want to thank you very sincerely for your part in securing this generous concession which will mean a great deal to the nationwide audience of anxious fans. Stop. If I can be of any assistance, even to the extent of finding a few tickets for you or your friends, I want you to know that I am at your service. Cordial greetings. President John F. O'Hara 
widow of William E. Donahue, for­mer advertising director of the Chi­cago Tribune; $15,000 in memory of the late Martin J. McCue, former dean of engineering; $10,000 from the estate of the late James J. Phelan, of Boston; and $10,000 from the Chemical Foundation through Francis 
P. Garvan. 
Twenty-eight per cent of the en­tire student body at the University are earning a portion of their college expenses this year by working part time at various jobs about the cam­pus, according to Father O'Hara's re­port. This includes services of all kinds from working about the grounds and waiting table in the din­ing halls, to doing secretarial work or cataloguing scientific specimens under supervision of faculty mem­bers. Service credits allowed by the University will amount to more than $206,000 for the current year. 
Members of the board of lay trus­tees who attended the meeting in­cluded the following: 
Frank C Walker, '09, Chairman of the National Emergency Council, of New York; Fred J. Fisher, Detroit; Miles W. O'Brien, treasurer of the Board, South Bend; C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis.; Matthew J. Carney, New York City; Edward J. Doyle, Chicago; Peter C Reilly, Indianap­olis; Byron V. Kanaley, '04, Chicago; George M. Anson, '95, Merrill, Wis.; Frank E. Hering, '98, South Bend, Ind.; John P. Murphy, '12, Cleveland; Grattan T. Stanford, '04, New York City. The Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C, attended in place of the Pro­vincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C. Others present were Brother Ephrem, C.S.C, secretary of the Board, and Frank W. Lloyd, comptroller of the University and assistant treasurer of the Board. 
JOE SULLIVAN'S FATHER DIES 
Ofiicials and students of the Uni­versity were saddened on November 6 to receive from Brooklyn news of the death of Police Lieutenant Tim­othy Sullivan, 62, father of Joe Sul­livan, captain-elect of the 1935 foot­ball team. Grieving over the death of his son and particularly saddened during the football season, Mr. Sulli­van was ill only a day. On the Sat­urday previous to his death he had listened to radio accounts of the stir­ring Ohio State game and had heard announcers proclaim that the boys had "pulled one out of the fire for Joe." 
TWO-MINUTE MEN 
(Continued from Page 67 
fomia game. This left only WajTie Millner of the 1934 team in the line. The losses were not only severe, but they could not be provided before by the grooming of new men in' spring practice, except in the case of Vairo, Schiralli, and Eobinson. Line Coach Joe Boland did a splendid Job of shooting replacements to the front as the casualties dropped by the wayside. 
The only linemen not to drop was the rugged Wayne Millner at left end, which leads us into a re\new of the accomplishments of a few of the grad­uating seniors. Millner not only start­ed 27 out of 27 games, starting every one since the second game of his sophomore year, but he played well enough to assure himself of ail-Amer­ican honors this season. Only once did he take time out because of an injury and that was against North­western this year. He remained in the game. During his career he played 60 minutes in five games. -4s a sophomore he blocked an Army punt and recovered the ball for the touchdown which gave Notre Dame a 13 to 12 %'ictorj' in one of football's gi-eatest upsets. He played consistent­ly brilliant defensive ball as a sopho­more and a junior, gradually improv­ing his blocking until he became one of the finest all-around ends in Notre Dame history. This year he scored against Kansas, scored the winning touchdown against Ohio State, and scored twice against Southern Cali­fornia, having one touchdown called back when he stepped out of bounds by inches after receiving a long pass. He blocked several punts, rushed en­emy passers and kickers throughout the season forcing them to get off poor efforts. He was usually the first man under punts and a deadly open field tackier. He blocked Pat­rick's attempt for the extra point after Pitt's first touchdown to assure Notre Dame of at least a tie when Shakespeare scored. In the Southern California game, he and Shakespeare blocked Belko's try for the extra point after the first Trojan score to make a 14 to 13 ^ictorj' possible right up until the end when Shakespeare scored again. 
Shakespeare started out less bril­liantly than Millner, failing to win a monogram — so did 50ke Layden, Wally Fromhart, and Henry Pojman —but he finished up as the idol of his native Staten Island and millions of Notre Dame fans. He led the team in scoring with five touchdowns. His kicks averaged around 46 yards and were returned an average of less than three yards. He made kicks of 82 and 78 yards from the line of scrim­mage against Pitt and Navy respec­tively. He passed to Millner for touchdowns against Kansas and Ohio State, and to Fromhart against South­ern California. He threw perfect passes to Millner against Northwest-em, and they were knocked down by Wildcat defenders. He threw perfect passes to Layden and Slillner in the Army game, and Army was caught hooking Millner's arm on the second, setting up the touchdown which tied the score. He made 376 yards on running plays from scrimmage, al­most twice as much as any other member of the team, averaging 3.7 yards per trip for 102 attempts ex­clusive of what he made on punt and kickoff returns and passes. 
Wally Fromhart, who fought his way up through the ranks of three monogram winners of 1933 to win the varsity signal calling job last sea­son, ended his career in a blaze of glory by catching the first touchdown pass, throwing the second to Millner, kicking the tivo extra points from placement which gave the Irish a 14 to 13 edge on the Trojans, and then running his pass interception from his 20 yard line to S. C.'s 7 to set up Shakespeare's final touchdown. His generalship, punt handling, and defensive play were brilliant all sea­son. Like Millner and Shakespeare he was bothered none by injuries. 
Mike Layden was honored in his final game by being named acting captain in recognition of his feat of last year when he scored both Notre Dame touchdowns against the Tro­jans in the 14 to 0 victorj'. He ac­cepted the honor with a flourish, re­turning the opening kickoff to mid­field and then making 20 yards in four trips before the recurrence of an injury which bothered him all sea­son forced his retirement from the lineup. Despite his injury, he scored the second touchdown against Navy and Ohio State, caught several passes at crucial moments and averaged five yards a trip against Kansas, Car­negie Tech, and Southern California. He was also a fine passing threat all season and a great blocker and de­fensive man. 
Marty Peters played bang-up ball all season on both offense and defense and will be remembered most conspic­uously as the kicker of the field goal which beat Pitt, 9 to 6, and started the Two Minute tradition. 

Andy Pilney was in there for one play, the last two minutes of the S. C. game, but it was more a gesture than an attempt to turn him loose with a display of his well-known Ohio State fireworks. Pilney lest it be over­looked in the prominence of the Ohio State game, had a season's average of 5.9 yards from scrimmage, and a total of 212 yards from scrimmage for 36 attempts. He played fine ball against Wisconsin, passing to Joe O'Neill for one touchdown and scor­ing another on a 40-yard run. He threw both touchdown passes against Navy, and averaged 4.7 yards from scrimmage in ten attempts. If his punt returns were figured into the picture, he would have an average of better than ten yards for the season. His punting, while not as long as Shakespeare's, was deadly in its plac­ing, and averaged about 39 yards. All Notre Dame fans insist that vnth him in the lineup against Northwest-em and Army, the story would have been much different. 
They insist that the same is true about Dick Pfefferle, one of the most courageous and remarkable players in football in 1935. Playing with his right arm strapped to his side above the elbow to protect a weak shoulder, Pfefferle like Pilney, saw Notre Dame win every game he played in this year. When opponents tried to take advantage of his weakness by cutting inside of him, he threw his body in their path and checked them. He fi­nished in a blaze of glory against 
S. C, blocking Belko's attempted field goal, recovering the ball on the Trojan 44-yard line and seeing Notre Dame score its second touchdown two plays later. 
There is little doubt that John Jli­chuta would have won all-American honors this year if he were able to play out the season. Discover}' of an old injur}' after the Wisconsin game forced his retirement from the lineup until late in the final game, when coaches and doctors finally listened to his pleadings and let his appear for a few plays during which the pent-up energ}' of six weeks was turned loose with devastating effect. 
Many other seniors stood out in the year's campaign. Hank Pojman and Fred Solari, for instance, as well as Frankie Gaul and George Moriarity. Then there were also Fred Carideo and Don Elser, Matt Themes and Ken Stilley, Sonny Church, Tony Mazziotti and Bill Belden. 

"B" TEAM HAS GOOD SEASON 

The B team closed one of the most successful seasons in its exist­ence with a 14 to 13 loss to Illinois which wasn't so hard to take consid­ering the fact that three Irish touch­downs were called back for rule in­fractions. The previous week the Irish lost to Purdue's B by a 19 to 12 score, but the boys laugh this one off with the claim that Purdue used members of its third and fourth teams against Notre Dame's sixth and seventh, which report Noble Kizer, '25, can verify or not. Maybe we'll be relegated to the B squad next year and can check up on these re­ports personally. The Hamburgers won from Niagara U., 25 to 12, from Ouachita College, 25 to 0, and from the Illinois B, 12 to 7, in previous games. 
President Roosevelt's visit and the consequent decoration of the Gym for the occasion will result in the playing of some basketball games in the Stud­ebaker Gym in South Bend. 
The President's Page 
DE 'ECEMBER 9th the University has planned a brilliant occasion when Philippine Independence will be observed. 
At a special convocation called for the purpose Carlos Romulo, eminent Philippine journalist, will receive on this day an Honorary LL.D., degree from Notre Dame. 
His Excellency, the President of the United States, -ivill be the guest of the University at this time and likewise His Eminence George Cardinal Mundelein, Archbishop of Chicago. 
As president of the Alumni Association I ask you to earnestly consider the constant manifestation of the Uni­versity's progress and that our problem, as Alumni, is not so much in the pushing forward of Notre Dame, but rather increasing our own tempo to keep pace \vith our Alma Mater. 
J. WO NEW residence halls will further cement the Notre Dame spirit which has always rested on the founda­tion of campus residence. They will permit the removal of some residence facilities which were not intended to be permanent, and will further permit the use of some pres­ent residence space for more practical and effective use. 
The inclusion of a residence for Community members will be welcomed by Alumni. For years, Notre Dame students have been aware that the welfare of the Univer­sity and the students has been placed ahead of the com­fort and convenience of the members of the Congregation. Teaching members of the Order have been scattered among the various halls; in the main building, and in the Community Infirmary—without any of the conveniences that would aid their faculty functioning or personal well­being. The move should result in a definite satisfaction of a long recognized need. 
In this connection, the decision of the University as sanctioned by the Board of Trustees, places first in the Notre Dame program the welfare of Notre Dame students and faculty, and preserves the fundamentals of the Uni­versity. Certainly we can aiford, as Alumni, to work for the realization of the secondary needs as outlined by Father O'Hara last month. 
1 HE FOOTB.A.LL season which is just now dragging to a close is one of the finest in Notre Dame history and I am certain that the Alumni generally will rejoice with the student body in this fact. 
Probably in no other college is the conduct of athletics so free from Alumni interference, and I believe rightly so. 
The causes of this, as I interpret them, are two-fold First, the University is conducted by Alumni. From the President down we have fellow Alumni numbered among priests of Holy Cross, and professors and administrators. 
Secondly, since 1917 the coaching staff has been headed by Alumni and for the most part composed of Alumni throughout or graduates from other schools who have absorbed the Notre Dame spirit and are Notre Dame men in fact. I feel very confident that we have all been content to rest the athletic destinies of our University in these friendly and understanding hands. 
The answer has been a record of unparalleled achieve­ment. Another result, appreciated by coaches and Aliunni, has been what we believe to be a sane and sound attitude among Notre Dame men toward football. Whether in vic­tory, of which we have had an unusual share during our athletic history, or in defeat, which we have naturally encountered, and for which there is a complete respect, we have always had wholesome rivalry and true sports­manship nourished at the University. 
We are proud of Elmer Layden, Joe Boland, Chet Grant, Tom Conley, William Cemey, Clarence J. Kline, Thomas Gorman and the 1935 team for the record which they have achieved and the fact that in victory and defeat Notre Dame has been represented on the gridiron this year as every Notre Dame man would wish her to be represented. 
J. HE ALUMNI Association is particularly appreciative of the cooperation of -Former President Frank E. Hering. Mr. Hering spoke over a national radio hook-up on Frat­ernal Day at the San Diego exposition on Oct. 27. On his western trip he also spoke to many of the Eagle Lodges, in whose development he has for so long been a leader. 
But on top of these pressing and demanding engage­ments, Mr. Hering volunteered to do anything he could to contact the Alumni groups in the West. 
As a result, through the cooperation of the Alumni, Mr. Hering spoke to the Notre Dame Club of Northern California in San Francisco on Oct. 29, visited the gover­nor of the district, E. P. Carville in Keno, and was the guest of the Notre Dame Club of Utah in Salt Lake City on Nov. 2. 
Reports from the clubs, Mr. Carville and Mr. Hering, contain a mutual enthusiasm that confirms the admin­istration's belief that much can come from more frequent contact bet\veen groups of Alumni and the men who, like Mr. Hering, know the program of the association and Its problems. 
(SPEAKIN G of Clubs, I take this occasion to commend the Notre Dame Club of Central Ohio for its remarkably fine handling of Notre Dame's part in the famous Ohio State week-end. I wish to thank the Notre Dame Club of New York for the splendid scholarship it has established at Notre Dame. I waive my personal feeling of modesty to hail publicly the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley for the series of pre-game smokers which culm­inated in the great "Old Timers' Night," Nov. 22. 
A HE ALUMNI Office is sending out reminders of the one phase of the association's activity that has always embarrassed the administration—dues. 
But, as pointed out in the notice, to achieve a unity and completeness of result we must have a unity and completeness of efi'ort. No hardship for an individual Alumnus is desired or intended. But the Officers of the Association do feel that much of our lack of support is lack of attention rather than want of either interest or ability to pay the few dollars that include among other things this magazine. 
(Sig.) BERNARD J. VOLL. 

CAMPUS ACTIVITIES 
By John J. Lechner, '36 
STORY BEHIND A VICTORY. 
SCENE I (The varsity locker room at Notre Dame, Ind. It is- the last practice before the Fighting Irish leave for Columbus to play Ohio State's mighty "Scarlet Scourge." The players are crowded about the bul­letin board whereupon is the list of the squad chosen to make the tiip. Jim McKenna, promising sophomore quarterback from St. Paul, Minn., edges his way to an unobstmcted view. His eye jumps to the sub-head "Quarterbacks." He reads: "From­hart, Gaul, Moriarity, Puplis, and Bruno." 
SCENE II (Columbus, Ohio. It is just before game time. McKenna is standing at the player's enti-ance to the stadium. The Notre Dame team has already entered. A taxi grinds to a stop and from it leap the Notre Dame coaching staff. Head Coach Elmer Layden nods to McKenna. The latter approaches Layden diffidently.) 
McKenna: "Listen, coach. I'd like to ask a favor. I came down with the rest of the student trippers but I haven't got a ticket. "Could I sit on the bench?" 
Layden: "0. K. Mac. While you're here you might as well put on a suit." 
• SCENE THREE (The interior of Ohio stadium. The score is 13 to 12 in favor of Ohio State with but 45 seconds remaining in the game. Coach Layden is intently following the play. He looks down the bench. He calls sharply: 
"McKenna!" "Yes, sir." "Get in there and call for that long 
pass from Shakespeare to Millner. Know the one I mean? Good. Don't forget to report." 
McKenna enters the game, calls the play, the ball is snapped to Shake­speare, he passes, Millner leaps—and the final score is 18 to 13, Notre Dame. 
Thus it was that the play which defeated Ohio State was called by a man who officially wasn't even there.­
* 
UNIVERSITY RADIO STATION. 
Under the able direction of station manager Joe Mansfield, '36, of Fall River, Massachusetts, the University Radio Station associated with WSBT­WFAM, South Bend, a unit of the Columbia chain, has been progressing by leaps and bounds. Begun last year as more or less of an experiment under the sponsorship of the Rev. 
Eugene Burke, C.S.C, who has con­tinued as faculty supervisor, the sta­tion located in the John F. Gushing Engineering Building now presents seven weekly programs of 15 minutes each. Assisting Mansfield is Sopho­more Arem Jarrett, Woonsocket, Rhode Island. 
Jarrett conducts "The Man Who Knows," an educational program de­signed to answer technical questions from the point of ^^ew of the lay­man, and AU-American Jack Robin­son of last year's team is featured each Thursday in a sports forecast. The faculty supplies two speakers a week; the Bookmen, campus literary societj^ under the leadership of Harry Cozad, cover the literarj' world, while the Scholastic winds up the station's weekly activities with a news and sports summai-y. The latter program is directed by Co-Sports Editors Jim Waldron and Joe Prendergast and by Lindsay Phoebus of the news staif. 
Most of the announcing is taken care of by Mansfield with some 110 prospective announcers panting at his heels ready to go on the air at an in­stant's notice should "Boston Joe" ever develop a cold or sore throat. 
VOICE CULTURE. 
With hoarseness gradually disap­pearing with the wind-up of the foot­ball season the men responsible for Notre Dame's prestige in the world of vowels and consonants are shift­ing gracefully into high. Professor Joseph Casasanta is gradually mold­ing his Glee Club aspirants into a unit; Varsity Coach William J. Coyne is gradually eliminating from the thirty-odd debating candidates down to the ten or twelve which will make up the team, and Albert Doyle, of the speech department, has chosen the first play to be presented by the Uni­versity Theatre Group. 
Casasanta intends to make his final selections after the holidays but Coyne's problem is more immediate since he has only four veterans re­turning from last year's team. These men, Robert Schmelzle, Freeport, Illinois, John Heywood, New Rich­mond, Wisconsin, Eugene Malloy, Chicago, Illinois, and Richard Meier, Faulkton, South Dakota, are expected to form the nucleus for another suc­cessful season. Malloy, president of the Wranglers, campus forensic or­ganization which sponsors interhall competition in debating, has already started this activity with twelve halls in the field for the traveling Lemmer 
Trophy, now held by Walsh hall, as 
the prize. 
The University Theatre's first pro­
duction will be "The World Waits" 
by George F. Hummell. The play, 
with its locale in the Arctic regions, 
will utilize a cast of fifteen. 
THE MONTH IN BRIEF. Scrip, the campus literary quar­terly, under the editorshii* (Jf STaurice Tombragel, New York City, made its first appearance of the year .. . St. Mary's, after many years of getting its mail through Notre Dame, is to have its own postoffice . . . Forty of the paintings of Professor Emil Jacques, head of the art department, are now being shown at the Newman Art Galleries in Philadelphia . . . Two freshmen, Anthony Lohkamp, who is six feet, six inches tall, and weiglis 260 pounds, and John Noto, who can, by stretching, reach five feet, one inch, have formed an inseparable friendship. . . . 
When, after the Northwestern game, it was feared that jubilant N.U. rooters would endeavor to take the south goal posts, approximately 400 Notre Dame men left the stands in orderly fashion, grouped themselves about the threatened uprights, and ouietlv sang the Victor}' March . . . The daily Religions Bulletin passed its 14th birthday October 24 unmen­tioned by this column since our copy was already in the hands of the printers before we discovered con­gratulations were in order .. . It was started in 1921 by Father O'Hara, who was then prefect of religion . . . It now has a circulation of many thousands and is sent to 47 states and 15 foreign countries. . . . 
MORE BRIEFS. 
Home football games are a boon to journalism students . . . Be­sides Frank Wallace, Warren Brown, sports-editor of the Chicago Herald-Examiner, Ted Husing, ace C.B.S. .sportscaster, and James S. Keams, former Scholastic editor now writing sports for the Chicago Dailij Neivs, spoke to the future pressmen . . . Brown, before the Pitt game, set some sort of record . . . He delivered five special lectures in two days to Doctor John Cooneys hopefuls . . . Director Joseph Casasanta took 32 picked members of his Glee Club to Chicago to participate in a morning 
(Continued on Page 79) 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
OFFICERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
1935-1936 

Honorary President Albert P. Zahm, '83 Director Hugh A. O'Donnell, '94 President Bernard J. VoII, '17 Director Fred L. Steers, '11 First Vice-President Albert J. Galen, '96 Director James E. Deery, '10 Second Vice-President George N. Shuster, '15 Director Don P. O'Keefe, '03 Secretary-Treasurer James E. Armstrong, '25 Director (ex-officio) Timothy P. Galvin, '16 Assistant Secretary William R. Dooley, '26 Director (one-year) Thomas G. Proctor, '35 
GOVERNORS 

District 1—John W. Schindler. '09. Mishawaka, Ind. District 12—Hugh M. Macevney. *25. Memphis, Tenn. 
District 2—James A. Ronan,'26, Ghicaco. III. District 13—Lawrence Hennessey, '27, Vidcsburc, Miss. 
District 3—^Henry F. Bamhart, '23, Lima, Ohio District 14—^^Villiam Grady, '17, Dallas, Texas 
District 4—^Hcnry Lauerman, '23, Menominee, Mich. District 15—John M. Ducan, '27. Kansas City. Mo. 
District 5—John T. HiEBins, '23, Detroit, Mich. District 16—Sherwood Dixon. '20, Di:con. III. 
District 6—Aucust G. Desch, '23. Philadelphia, Pa. District 17—George A. McGee, '01. Minot. No. Dakota 
District 7—^Edward A. Fallon, '26, New York City District 18—^Robert Fo.-c. '01. Denver, Colo. 
District 8—Gerard Ashe, '22, Rochester, N. Y. District 19—^Thomas H. Heam. '15. Los Angeles. Calif. 
District 9—John Robinson, '28, Waterbury, Conn. District 20—E. P. Carville, '09, Elko. Nev. 
District 10—Frank A. Reese, '25, Raleigh, North Carolina District 21—^Walter M. Daly. '04. Portland, Ore. 
District 11—^Matthew O'Brien, '31, Tampa. Fla. District 22 (Foreign)—Julius Arce, '99, Buenos Aires, Argentine. S.A. 
BUFFALO line-up of luncheon speakers for No­
Joseph H. Kraker, '29, 1776-24th St., Cuy­Robert Moore, '30. 2574 Main St. Presi­vember: November 5, Glenn A. Davis, ahoga Falls. Ohio. President. Claude H. 
AKRON 
dent Robert Measer. '34. The Amherst Homing. '29. 133 N. Highland Ave.. Bee (>>., Main & Bock Sts.. Williamsville. Manager Safety and Relief Depart­Akron. Secretary. N. Y.. Secretary. ment, Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corpor­A stin-ing and successful N. D.-ation, "Safety First in Industry"; ARIZONA 
Ai-my rally was sponsored by the November 12, Raymond J. McNally, 
James D. Barry, '97. (Consolidated Bank 

partner in Slaughter and Russell, "A 
BIdg.. Tucson. President. Steven Rebeil, BuiTalo Club on Friday evening, No­
'25. 620 N. Sixth St.. Tucson, Secretary. vember 15, in the Savarin Cafe, Buf­Broker Looks at the Security-Ex­
* falo, according to announcements change Commission"; November 19, ARKANSAS fro m Secretaiy BOB MEASER. Aubrey Devine, assistant football 
Rev. (^ . F. X. Strassner. '14. Hope. Ark.. 

There were "Notre Dame Songs-coach. University of Southern Cali­
President. Burt L. Roberts. 1325 Lincoln 

Ave. Little Rock. Ark.. Secretary. Cheers-Favors-Noisemakers" an d a fornia, "Scouting Notre Dame"; No­
* special Notre Dame show. Whoopee! vember 26, John Schoramer, widely 
BENGAL Before the party Notre Dame alum­known football official, "Tactics and R t Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C, '02. ni and their friends joined in a special Rules of Modem Football." 
Dacca, Bengal, India. President. Rev. J. 

J. Henessey. C.S.C, '02. Dacca, Bengal. Notr e Dam e show over station The speakers' committee for No­India. Secretary. WEBR, Buffalo. Everj- one took part 
vember included PAUL CONAGHAN 
* in the songs and cheers, listened to and ROG RILEY. Luncheons are in BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) outstanding speakers, paid a magnifi­
the Ivory Room of Mandel's depart­
Wm. H. Downey. '28. 1615 Oak St.. Niles. cent tribute to the team, ELMER 
ment store every Tuesday. The talks 
Mich., President. Malcolm K. Hatfield. 

LAYDEN and KNUTE ROCKNE. 
•29, 2305 Niles Ave., St. Joseph, Mich.. begin promptly at 12:30. 
Secretary. The special broadcast was arranged The Northwestern defeat and the by Peter A. Wozniak, WEHR program rain that started before the game and director, a 100 per cent Notre Dame We of the Chicago Club have been got harder as it went along toward supporter. having a very interesting year under 
evening weren't a bit of help to the the expert guidance of President Berrien County club dance in the JACK SCALLAN. Every second Four Flags Hotel, Niles, on the eve­CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-III.) meeting we have a speaker who is 
ning of November 9. The attendance William L. Travis. '27, 803 Lloyd Bldg.. Hammond. Ind.. President. Fred J. Sol-
chosen by monthly committeemen. of some 60 or so couples did have a man, Jr., '28, 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond, This method has been very satisfac­
Ind.. Secretary. 

whizzing good time, though, and be­tory as this enables us to get various 
gan looking forward to the club's an­talente d men through different nual Christmas dance. 
groups. 
CAPITOL DISTRICT (New York) 
Said Christmas dance was discussed 

Clare L. Touhey. '26, 601-02 National Sav­Here in Chicago the football sea­
at the dinner-meeting which, to quote ings Bank BIdg., Albany, N. Y., President son has brought its usual wave of en­
Secretary HATFIELD, "Comrade Ed\vard J. Eckert, '33, 5 Lawnridge Ave., 
Albany. N. Y.. Secretary. thusiastic activity; the fellows have DESENBEKG" staged in Buchanan been meeting at the Knickerbocker on Friday, November 15, with the Hotel on Saturday noons to listen to 
aid of another good Buchanan resi­CHICAGO the games played away from home. 
John W. Scallan. '25, 79 E. Adams St. 
dent, PHIL LANDSMAN. 
President Al C. Stepan. '31. 365 E. Illi­The Ohio Game, of course, contrib­nois St., Secretary. uted a highlight here, as well as in BOSTON Columbus. The boys went simply 
PAT CROWLEY, the able general 
Jarlath (Jack) Slattcry. '21, 226 L. St.. 

cuckoo and JACK ELDER looked as 
So. Boston, Mass., President James Ska-chairman of luncheons for the Chi­
han. '31, 5 Grove St. Belmont. Mass., Sec­though he had played five quarters 
cago Club, announced the following 
retary. 

single-handed against the "Scarlet Scourge." 
In line with the famous left half­backs, an orchid to ANDY PILNEY, a hero — a Chicagoan and future member of our club. After the game we sent a wire as follows: ELMER LAYDEN and Notre Dame Football Team, "My God you're wonderful" Notre Dame Chicago Club. Even the manager of the .hotel entered into the spirit and set us all up with a round of scotch and sodas. 
The next Saturday we all went down to the Northwestern game and though we were disappointed we could see the boys were tired and were up against a team hopped up to win. 
Talking the game over at our Tues­day luncheon it seemed that the fel­lows felt that after 34 years North­western had a victory coming to them and that it will greatly improve ath­letic and other relationships between the schools and their followers. 
To bring in a few personalities here is a little dope on what some of the boys are doing. 
PAT CROWLEY is finishing up his law course at Loyola. Pat went to the Army game. 
NEIL HURLEY is married and is doing a great job selling pneumatic tools. 
ED STEPHAN is temporarily painting Omaha blue and gold with Devoe & Reynolds best. 
FRED BECKLENBERG is married and is working a mere 14 hours a day erecting some of the few build­ings going up in Chicago. 
PAUL CONAGHAN recently won a most important case for the U. S. Steel Company on industrial diseases. 
I want to say hello to BILL DREUX in New Orleans and JACK JAEGER in Milwaukee, a couple of football psychopaths who extract their hair and go violently insane during an average game, and ask if they have recuperated from that last quarter of the Ohio game? 
AL STEPAN, 
Secretary. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
•niomas
 E. FerBuson. "26. 37 Windsor St., Tlioinpsonville, Conn., President. Francis 

D.
 Ahem. '29. 1 Webster St, Hartford. Conn., Secretary. 


* 
CLEVELAND 
Qayton Leronx, '27, 33S6 Daleford Road, 
Cleveland Hprts., Ohio. President. Otis 
Winchester. '29, 2968 Meadowbrook Blvd„ 
Cleveland Hsts., Ohio, Secretary. 
I hope that I am able to beat the dead line on the next issue. First and foremost, let me correct myself and state that JOHN RUPPEL is NOT connected with the U. S. Trucking Company, but is attending Harvard Business School. 
JOHN BELJON has settled down to a quiet married life, but he is still in the orchestra and music business. 
PAUL BRADY shows up around Cleveland once in a while when he is able to get away from his council-manic duties in Painesville. 
BILL BYRNE showed up on the special train coming back from Co­lumbus passing out slivers of the Ohio State goal post. And, before I forget it, that was a real ball game. For the past week it has been the topic of conversation in this hotbed of Ohio State rooters. The bunch of us certainly have had something to crow about. Quite a delegation of the Cleveland alumni attended this game. I couldn't begin to name all of the fellows who saw it because it would take a roster of the club mem­bership. 
Contrary to all reports from CAN­NY, the baby boy did not weigh 8 pounds, but 6 pounds and 15 ounces. I think that Pat would want the re­port in the last ALUMNUS corrected. 
PAT LAWLESS is now with the State Highway Department here in Cleveland. 
TED COLLINS is verj' busy selling coal to the natives and running the Neff Supply Company. 
JOHN DORE is verj' optimistic about the bond business. 
In the recent elections the Notre Dame men were very unlucky. RAY MILLER was defeated for mayor. DAN DUFFY and JOHN WEISEND were defeated for municipal judge and LOU STETTLER was defeated for auditor in Rocky River. 
JOE GAVIN has a championship football club in his Holy Name High gridders. We are hoping that he will get to play for the city championship in the stadium on Thanksgi^^ng. 
BOB MORRISSEY is now con­nected with Penn Alutual Life Insur­ance Company. 
JL4.RTY Rm i is ver>- busy in the practice of law handling quite a few Federal Loan cases. 
I understand that you have seen more of SHIPACASSE than the fel­lows around Cleveland. I guess that the only football games he has missed are the Navy and Wisconsin games. 
OTIS S. WINCHESTER, Secretary. A special postcard from ye sec. announces that the Cleveland Club has resumed its Monday noon lunch­eons at Fisher-Rohr's, 1794 East Ninth Street. A 50-cent meal, plus plenty of discussion, is available every Monday between 11:30 and 
1:30 o'clock. Out-of-town alumni cordially invited. 
CINCINNATI 
. Albert Castellini. '24, 1001 Atlas Bids.. 
President. George Aug:, '33, 4335 Bidge­
view Ave-, Secretary. 
We're just about getting down to earth after that tremendous week end at Columbus. To elaborate upon that would be just so much repetition, be­cause I don't believe there is a Notre Dame man anywhere, who doesn't know what happened in that last quarter against Ohio State. 
One of the most appropriate meetings the club has ever had was held on the Tuesday after the Ohio State game. Red Barber, sports an­nouncer at WLW, who incidentally broadcast the Notre Dame-Ohio State game, was the speaker for the eve­ning. He enlightened us with his non-partisan view of the game. The highlight of the talk was his descrip­tion of the last touchdown. Every broadcaster is assisted by two persons who are familiar with the members of their respective teams. These as­sistants have a chart and point a pen­cil to the name of the player carrying the ball, etc. Right before Notre Dame scored her last touchdown Red looked for the pencil and found his aide making the Sign of the Cross. After the touchdown he jumped out of the booth and led cheers. 
Very few of the members missed the game, and they all had their own stories of what happened next to them, and that they hadn't given up after the first half. 
The game was the cause of our largest turnout since Notre Dame Night; the fellows just wanted to get together and talk it over. 
Coach CLEM CROWE attended and was given a round of applause for the battle his Xavier eleven gave Mississippi State, holding them to a 7 to 0 score the week before they went to New York an^ beat Army 13 to 7. Clem is doing mighty fine, f ol­lov/ing right in JOE MEYER'S steps. 
We've got quite an interesting pro­gram lined up for this coming Satur­day afternoon. The club is inviting all the West Point graduates in this vicinity (about 20 of them) to be its guests at a radio broadcast of the Army-Notre Dame game. Just an­other fine activity the club has been springing from time to time. Here's hoping everything goes off in good order. 
Quite a few of the old boys put in their appearance at the last meeting. That last minute rally revived every­one's interest. J. A. PARTRIDGE, '08, attended for the first time in years. W. A. KENNEDY, '15, prom­ised to be more faithfuF. ED BRIED, '35, who is at University of Cincin­nati, put in his first appearance as a new member. HAROLD MADDEN, '15, entertained with a short talk. 
GEORGE AUG, JR., 
Secretary. 
* 
DAYTON 
Amos Clay, '15, Union Trust Bid?., Day­
ton, President. Andrew A. Aman, Jr., '30, 
210 Lcxinston Ave., Dayton, Secretary. 

DALLAS 
James P. Swift. '24, 1202 Southwestern Life Bids., Dallas. President. Francis A. UcCulIoueli, '30. 917 First National Bank BIdff., Dallas, Secretary. 
* 

DENVER 
Robert Dick, '29, 930 Grant St., President. Harry Lawrence, '29, 1951 Lawrence St., Secretary. 

* DES MOINES 
James C. Shaw, '22. 307 Equitable Bids., President. F. M. Wonderlin, '29, 302 Hubbell Bids., Secretary. 

DETROIT 
Willard Crotty, '29, 830 Calvert Ave., Pres­ident. Robert Baty, '30, 2961 Taylor Ave., Secretary. 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
James D. Hayes, '17, 4612 Morsan Drive, Chevy Chase, Md.. President. J. Thomas Carver, '32. 1210 Perry St., N. K. Wash­ington, D. C., Secretary. 

Fear I shall have to get after our secretary as I see we had no news in the last issue although we have had plenty going on. 
We took a large crowd to the game in -4.nnapolis and everyone was de­lighted. The day of the Ohio State game we had a smoker and the en­closed clipping is self explanatory of those who attended. We had better than a hundred. Last Saturday a good many of the local alumni went to New York, as did yours tmly, and enjoye d again the eleventh hour thriller. 
Had a ver\' enjoyable visit with FATHER O'DONNELL at the end of the Navj' game and also saw many old faces at the Notre Dame banquet in New York Saturday night. We are planning another party before the holidays with a dinner dance in the winter. 
JIM HAYES, President. 

EASTERN INDIANA 
Thomas A. Cannon, '33, 401 Wysor Bids., Muncie, Ind., President. Alvis E. Granser, e-x. '31, 617 S. Jefferson St., Hartford City, Ind., Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Club of Eastern Indiana held its regular monthly meeting November 5, at the Hart­ford Hotel, Hartford City, Indiana. Twenty members were present. A dinner was enjoyed followed by a business meeting. 
It was decided to have a Christmas party in the form of a dinner and dance. A committee composed of RICH.4.RD GREEN and WrLLLAM CR-A.IG, of Muncie, ED FITZMAUR­ICE, of Winchester, and .A.LBERT COX, of Hartford City, was appointed to make arrangements for the party. 
An effort is being made to have 

P.4.TMANION as guest of honor and speaker at the December meeting, which will be held in Muncie, De­cember 3. 
AL GRANGER, Secretai-}'. 

EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Leo R. Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem, Presi­dent. Ernest L. Wilhelm, '27, New Jer­sey Zinc Co., Research Dept., Palmerton, Secretary. 

ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA 
Richard D. Daley, *17, Erie Daily Times, President. Thomas Barber, '24, 416 New­man St., Secretary. 

FAIRFIELD COUNTY (Connecticut) 
James Murphy, '22, 611 Security Bids.. Bridseport. Conn., President. Joseph E. Russo, '32, 166 Housh Ave., Bridgeport, Conn., Secretary. 
* 

FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 
Donnelly P. McDonald. '12, Peoples Trust & Savings Co., President. Edward S. Sul­livan, '24, 123 K Suttenfield St , Secretary. 

The report of the activities of the Notre Dame Club of Fort Wayne is a little more heartening than it has been in months gone by. 
Through the undeniable effort of our genial vice-president, P-A.UL SAGSTETTER, and the able assist­ance of the Club officers, 20 members were gathered together Saturday noon in a private banquet room of the Berghoff Grill to listen to the un­folding of the football di-ama from Yankee Stadium. Luncheon was served. The following men were present. RICHiVRD -A.PP, EDWARD JL B.4LTES, EDW.ARD F. BUSH­M.AN, M.A.URICE DEW.A.LD, STE­PHEN B. FLEJHNG, ROBERT K. GORDON, HENRY HASLEY, C. BY­RO N H.A.YES, H.A.RRY HOGAN, FR.ANCIS H0G.4N, DONNELLY P. MCDONALD, .4RT MILLER, GER­.A.LD M 0 R S C H E S , J'REDERICK SCHOPPM.AN, PAUL SCHR.ANTZ, ROBERT SOSENHEIMER, P.4.UL SAGSTETTER, CLIFFORD WARD, H-A.ROLD MOYL.A.N, and ED SUL­LIV.AN. 
Between halves a brief business meeting was held. President McDon­ald presided. Secretary Sullivan pre­sented a message from the Fort Wayne student's club at the Univer­sity, soliciting the support of local alumni for the dance which they are planning for the coming Christmas season. The message was well re­ceived and the secretary was in­structed to assure the students that the alumni will do their part. 
H.ARRY HOG.A.N brought the Club to task, stating that, with so much talent, some activities of a more ser­ious nature should be sponsored and engaged in. Harry is president of the local Catholic Youth Organization and is intensely interested in its aims and purposes. Owing to the bre\'it}' of the meeting, discussion of his sug­gestion was defen-ed to the next reg­ular meeting. 
It was decided that monthly meet­ings will be held from now on and that each. member will be assessed $2.00 per year to cover operating ex­pense. 
So much for the meeting. 
Under the heading of personal items, I am happy to announce that Mr. and Mrs. CLIFFORD WARD were blessed with a nine pound haby boy, Friday, November 15. 
An item of interest is the recent appointment of JAMES D. HAYES, a former resident of Fort Wayne, as as­sistant solicitor of the Veterans' ad­ministration, Washington, D. C. Mr. Hayes has two brothers who are also members of our alumni, C. BYRON H.\YES, a member of our dub, and THOMAS HAYES, who, I believe, is now in Detroit, Michigan. 
Mrs. Daniel Kane, mother of J.A.MES KANE, a student at the Uni­versity in '30-'31, died during the past month. 
Mr. Fleming, whom I have listed above as being one of those present for our meeting, was a member of the football team while attending the University in the 80's. This infor­mation was given to me by Mr. Baltes who was in school at the same time. Mr. Fleming is head of the'Home 0^vners Loan Corporation branc h here. Mr. Baltes is president of the Baltes Supply Company which deals in building materials. 
-Aided by Paul Sagstetter, with Mrs. Sagstetter (an alumna of St. Mary's) acting as stenographer, I have brought the roster of the local unit up to date. We now hT.ve 100 members. 
The enthusiasm which is being manifested locally indicates that an­ticipation for an active organization in Fort Wayne will materialize. 
EDWARD S. SULLIVAN, 
Secretary. 

GOGEBIC RANGE (Michigan) 
Robert O'Callaghan. ex. '16, Gogebic Na­
tional Bank, Ironwood, President. Fran­
cis J. Vukovich, '3tr, Ridge St., Iron­

wood, Mich., Secretary. 
-' October 23. 

The president of our club, BOB O'CALLJVGHAN, and his wife mo­tored to Madison, Wisconsin and wit­nessed the Notre Dame - Wisconsin game. They enjoyed it very much. 
On October 21, VIC LEMMER, JOE GILL and his dad, and Mr. HA­GEN, who represented me, attended a meeting of the University of Michi­gan club at the Curry Hotel in Iron­wood, Michigan as representatives of the Gogebic Range Notre Dame Club. Our delegation was more than favor­ably received by the president of that university, Mr. Ruthven, and the alumni secretary, Mr. Tapping. 
As for future activities of our club, we are planning to go to .4shland, Wisconsin to have a joint meeting with the alumni present in that city. -Arrangements will soon be completed and I think our club will spend a night during the Thanksgiring week in Ashland. 
EUGENE R. ZINN, a member of the club who was supposed to be at school "this Fall to continue his law course, is on the road to recovery-after suffering a breakdown in health. At present he is at Saranac Lake, New York. 
FRANK VUKOVICH, Secretary'. 
GRAND RAPIDS George E. LiidwiE. '25. 328 Glcnhaven Ave., N. W., President. Raymond J. Bo­nini. '2i, 607 At\cood, N. E., Secretary. 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN Harold L. Londo, '24, City Encineers' Of­fice, CSty Hall, President. Levi A. Geni­esse, '24, 510 Minahan BIdi:., Secretary. 
President HAEOLD LONDO re­ports that a "bunch of the boys" have been gathering for radio reports of all the games. He adds: "The club hasn't gotten over that Ohio State finish yet, although the Army game wasn't so bad for thrills either." 
HAMILTON, OHIO 
M. O. Bums, '86, 338 S. Second St.. Presi­dent. Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rentscfa­ler Bids., Secretary. 
HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.) Norman Bartholomew. '15, 225 Cleveland Ave., Iron Mountain, Mich., President. Michael S. Corry. '27. 837 Terrace Ave., Marinette, Wis., Secretary. 
HOUSTON 
M. K Walter, "14 1702 Stuart Ave.. Hous­ton. President. Thomas F. Green Jr., '27. Gonroe. Texas, Secretarj'. 
* 
INDIANAPOLIS Thomas Jones, '04, 211 E. McCarty St.. PreddenL Michael R. Fox. '34, 3942 N. Penn St., Secretary. 
JACKSON, MICHIGAN Byrne M. Daly, 207 Ellery Ave., President. Lester Wisda. '31, 1016 E. Ganson St.. Secretary. 
* 
JOLIET, ILLINOIS Robert Duffy, '31. 213 N. Hickory, Presi­dent. Edward H. Kinc, 301 Ruby SU Secretary. 
* 
KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) Eobert Tyler, '29, 3G16 Paseo Blvd., Kan­sas City, Mo., President. Charles E. Mey­er, '29, 420 E. Armour Blvd., Kansas City. Mo., Secretary. 
* 
KANSAS Albert J. Gehert, '30. tl. of Wichita, Wich­ita, Kansas, President. Dan Welchons, '30, 623 Elm St., Ottawa, Kansas, Secretary. 
* 
KENTUCKY EoEene J. Steuerle, "25. 1439 Willow Ave.. Louisville. President. John Bannon, '32, 2011 Sherwood. Louis\-ille, Secretary. 
* 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
p . E. Burke. '88, 307 Camp St., New Or­leans. La.. President. Cyprian A. Sporl. Jr.. '28, Whitney-Central Bide., New Or­leans, La., Secretary. 
* 
LAPORTE, INDIANA A- Gordon Taylor, *18, 1507 Indiana Ave., President. Norman Duke, '33, 304 Niles St , Secretary. 
LOS ANGELES Thomas Heam, '15, 1120 Pacific Knance Bide., President. Douelas Daley, '30, 781 Ceres Ave., Secretary. 
MANILA Eduardo Roxas, '33, 719 Echa^e, Hanila, 
President.  Leopoldo  Brias,  Manila,  Sec­ 
retary.  
*  
MEMPHIS  

Walter J. Fransioli, Jr., '34, 218 N. Mc­Lean Blvd., President. Theon Dohogne, '27, 1072 S. Wellington St.. Secretary. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN Dr. K J. Hermes. '16. 1910 Oakland St.. Lansing, President. J. Harvey Gauthier, '30, Bark River. Michisan, Secretary. 
* 
MILWAUKEE 
Harold Watson. '25. 735 N. Water St.. 
President. John E. Clauder. '34, 1219 W. Vliet St , Secretary. 
Things were pretty quiet around these parts for some time. We had a meeting on Saturday, November 2, and listened to the Ohio State game. No need to say how the boys felt when the game was over. They all 
- enjoyed it a lot and immediately after the game everyone decided to meet again for the Army game. Thirty-four men showed up which is a good gathering for the club up here. We had also invited all the Ohio State men in Milwaukee to join us, and there were a few there. 
There has been some talk of run­ning a dinner-dance during the holi­days, so if any of you fellows in the towns around Milwaukee read this and are interested I wish you would please get in touch -with me. 
The only news about any of the fellows up here concerns JOHN OITZINGER, '34, who was married about a month ago. R.ALPH CLARK, ex. '28, became a proud father four weeks ago. JOHN E. CL.A.UDER, 
Secretary. 
November 18. 
The Milwaukee Notre Dame Club met at the Shorecrest Hotel, Novem­ber 16, and listened to the broadcast of the Army game. We had a very nice gathering, 25 men being there. Two Racine men T?ere -with us, TOM HEARDEN, '27, and GROVER MIL­LER, '16. We were also honored to have with us Rt. Rev. Msgr. O. H. Schurman de Berenbrook, from Te­gucigalpa, Honduras, C. A. 
We held a short business meeting at the half and announcement was made of a Christmas dance to be held December 28. JACK JjVEGER was made chairman of the dance com­mittee. JOHN E. CL.A.UDER, 
Secretary. 
Just a few lines to thank you for your help in getting the Racine alum­ni together. We have had one in­formal meeting, at which GROVE and BERNIE MILLER, BOB and JIM HAMILTON, TONY WIRRY, ED ZIMMERS, TOM HEARDEN, and I were present. At that time it was decided not to found a formal organization, but to ally ourselves with the Milwaukee Club in all mat­ters of importance and to have our own meetings occasionally for pur­poses of sociability. 
On this coming Saturday the Ra­cine men will meet with the Milwau­kee Club at the Shorecrest Hotel to listen to the broadcast of the Army game, and to cheer the lads on to an­other needed victory. 
BILL FROMM. 
MONTANA Earl W. Brown. '93. 320 Power St, Hele­na, President James B. O'Flynn. '11. Great Falls, Seretary. 
NASHVILLE Robert P. Williams, Jr., '29, 106 Gallatin Road, Secretary. 
NEW JERSEY 
Thomas Ptircell, '27, 32 N. 16th St. East 
Orange, President Raymond A. Geiger. 
'32. 446 Eastern Parkway, Irvington, Sec­
retary. 
Our November meeting featured a large attendance. 
JOE NULTY, PRANK McDER-MOTT, PETE QUINN, DON SULLI­VAN, LARRY KEMPER, PHIL HEINLE, TOM FLYNN, DAN O'­NEILL and a good number of the other regular members were very much in evidence. 
Our Hard Times dance was held at Sals Spa on November 8 and a packed house gathered for the affair. Every one had a good time, fticluding many of the older members of the club. 
The New York City Club asked the presence of New Jersey members at their dance after the game with Army. 
Dues of $2.00 were again re­quested of the members and the sec­retary was asked to use a little force in getting the members to come across. 
EDDIE DUGGAN was appointed chairman of the Universal Notre Dame Night banquet committee and knowing the splendid work that Eddie did last year, we are looking forward to the best affair yet. 
PHIL HEINLE, the chairman of the Christmas dance, gave his report on the plans thus far and we are all looking forward to a splendid func­tion during the holidays. 
The meeting came to a close with a resume of the Ohio State game by JACK SAUNDERS who was one of the fortunate members of the club to make the trip. 
We all look forward to a happy -Vrmy day game. RAY GEIGER, Secretary. 

CITY OF NEW YORK 
Edward T. Ughe, '24. 32 Franklin St.. New York City, President J. Norbert Gelson. Jr., '26, 1201 Troy Ave., Brooklyn, Secretary. 
* 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Roliert F. Sullivan. '33, 102 Walnut St, San Francisco, Calif., President W. Breen, McDonald, '17, 839 Howard St., San Fran­cisco, Calif., Secretary. 
November 6. 
A number of the men in this dis­

trict very recently had the great 
pleasure of meeting and listening to 
an inspirational talk by FRANK 
HERING, past president of the Alum­
ni Association. The meeting was at 
a luncheon held in the Commercial 
Club on October 29, and was at­
tended by the following: 
BERNARD J. ABBROTT; ROYAL BOSSHARD; LEO COOK; KEENE FITZPATRICK;R. J. FUITE; FRANK HAGENBARTH; MARK G. KEEUTZER; THOS. J. LANPHIER; 
W. BREEN MCDONALD ; JOHN S. McINNIS; PHIL PURCELL; ROB­ERT P. SULLIVAN; JAMES WAS­SON; ELMER WYNNE. 
It was regreiled that more of the alumni here were not present to bene­fit by hearing Mr. Hering. 
Arrangements are being made now for a luncheon in connection with local Army men to listen to the broadcast of the Army game on the 
16. We hope to promote additional gatherings to bind together more closely the men of Northern Califor­nia with the cooperation of E. P. CARVILLE of Reno, our district gov­ernor; and we further hope that you and BERNARD VOLL can promote a closer contact between the men here and the old school by possibly arrang­ing for visits here of other distin­guished alumni such as Frank Hering. 
w. BREEN MCDONALD, Secretarj'. 
* 

CENTRAL OHIO 
Raymond J. Eichenlaub, '15, Hostcr Real­ty Bids., Columbus, President 
* 

OKXAHOMA 
Joseph A. Moran. '32. 1611 S. Carson, Tul­sa, President Norbert F. Skelly, '25, University Club, Tulsa. Secretary. 

The club announced a Notre Dame banquet for the evening of Novem­ber 23 under the direction of Presi­dent JOE MORAN. Every indication was that it would equal or exceed the successful party which the club had last Spring, according to Scribe NORB SKELLEY, of Tulsa. 
Norb added: "Had the pleasure of visiting with an old Notre Dame schoolmate CHARLES W. MULAN­EY, who has charge of ail Walgi-een Drug Stores in the western section and who drops into Tulsa every moon or so. 
"Next month I am going up to Kansas and shall probably take in a Notre Dame party in Kansas City be­fore returning to Tulsa." 
OREGON 
Prank T. Collier. '08, 721 Yeon BIdR., Portland, President William C. Schmitt. '10, Consolidated Equipment Co., Portland. Secretary. 
* 

PARIS 
Louis P. Harl. '16, Paris Office. New York, Herald-Tribune, Paris, France. President 

PEORIA 
Frederick J. Meyer. '33. Dunlap. III., Presi­dent: Al Gury, Jr., '28. 612 Albany Ave.. Secretarj-. 

Plans for the annual Christmas dance were made by members of the Peoria Notre Dame club at a monthly meeting at Spalding Institute Novem­ber 13. 
ROBERT RAINEY was named general chairman of the dance by FREDERICK J. MEYER, president of the club. WILLIAM MOTSETT and ERNEST HECHINGER were ap­pointed aides to Rainey. 
GEORGE BUTTERWORTH, of South Bend, a Notre Dame alumnus of 1920, a cousin of the screen star, CHARLES BUTTERWORTH, also a Notre Dame man, was the principal speaker. FRANK DeWENTER, of Bloomington, gave the club members a few highlights of the N. D.-Ohio State game which he saw. Father Alphonse Freehill, O.S.B., athletic director of Spalding Institute, gave a brief talk. 
The following committees were ap­pointed by the president: 
Meetings and Speakers — JOHN CAS SIDY, LEO KAVANAUGH, GEORGE SPRENGER, DR. WIL­LIAM WHALEN. 
Universal Notre Dame Night—TQ­SEPH LANGTON, AL WELZEN­BACH, BRADLEY PRESCOTT, ART FULTON. 
Annual Communion Sunday — JOHN GREISER, PAUL McNAMEE, WILLIAM WOLTERS, FATHER DUNN, FATHER MOTSETT, FA­THER ALPHONSE. 
Spring Picnic—VINCENT RICK­EY, ELMER GURY, R. ROULEAU, 
T. McSWEENEY. Peoria is still playing the Notre Dame-Ohio State game. May we again thank Notre Dame, Our Mother, 
for this one? AL GURY, JR. 
PHILADELPHIA 
Gerard Desen. '10 6734 N. ISth St,. Pres­ident Wm. E. Cooney. "31. 6725 McMa­hon Ave., Secretary. 

My report for the November issue having been too late, I should like to note that the Club went into action on October 8, at the Penn Athletic Club, with the fine turn-out of 33 fellows. The new members, gradu­ates of last June, are JACK MAT­THEWS and RAY BRODERICK, both now attending Penn Law School, JOE WACKERMAN, who is ^rith one of the city's leading architects, and AL D'AMORA, now giving Ardmore the benefit of his talents: 
On November 3 the members at­tended our third annual memorial Mass for deceased Notre Dame men. Mass was celebrated at the Cathedral of Sts. Peter and Paul. 
Under the energetic leadership of WALT RIDLEY and HENRY DEGEN, we put over with great suc­cess, the prize drawing for Notre Dame-Army game tickets. The gang certainly went to work and displayed wonderful spirit in the enterprise. The drawing was held November 11, at the meeting at the Penn A.C. To see 45 members present gives an in­dication of the action growing here, where 12 used to be the average at­tendance a few years ago. 
JOHN MORONEY was appointed general chairman for our annual Christmas dance. He and his com­mittee have done some great work already and announced that the dance will be held December 27, at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel ballroom, with Howard Lanin's orchestra the most likely choice. Being a supper dance, this marks our largest social venture ever undertaken. 
To get down to some news about indiWdual local lads. JOHN MORO­NEY and JACK REILLY are now proud fathers—the former's being a girl and Jack's a boy. JOE DAL­SEY has connected with R.C.A. Vic­tor Company, in Camden. Every­one was glad to see TOM MAGEE coming back strong after an illness that kept him in the hospital for three months. To CLIFF PRODEHL our congratulations for receiving his Mas­ter's degree at Penn State. Cliff is teaching at Brown Prep. School. BOB FLINT and JACK KENNY are back with us again, attending Penn Law School. 
JOE PARRELL showed splendid interest by driving in from Harris­burg for the last meeting, as did ED BUTLER from Wilmington. Ed is working with a utilities outfit down there. MARTY BRILL'S LaSalle team clashed ^vith HARRY STIML­DREHER and BOB REAG.AN'S Villa-nova club, but Villanova came through to even Marty's victory last season. GENE OBERST has turned out a scrappy team at Catholic High. CHIEF NEESON kept intact his long record of viewing Army-Notre Dame games. VTNCE McNALLY, back in Philadelphia, was a welcome addition to the last meeting. 
A grand salute to ELMER LAY­DEN and his fighting team. They are one of the gamest and scrapipest clubs ever to represent N. D. 
BILL COONEY, Secretary. 

PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. John Hilkert, '22, Box 62. President. Julius J. Dandi, '25. 343 N. 20th Ave.. Secretary. 
Our Alumni Group here at Phoenix certainly spent many an anxious sec­ond during that Notre Dame-Ohio State football game. Did we throw our hats around when Pilney started that ball down towards the goal line and then did it sink when we were told that he was injured on the play and that he was being taken off the field on a stretcher? Only a few sec­onds later we were again swept off our feet when Shakespeare put one in Millner's hands for the winning score. Whew, that was a thriller and one that will last us for a long time. Our sympathy goes to Pilney and wo are sorry he missed out on the North­western fracas. 
We are verj' sorrj' that ELMER LAYDEN and the boys couldn't take Northwestern over for a win. Yet they have done the best they could and we want to express our apprecia­tion of a game well played, even though lost. The opponents were wor­thy foes, and the boys have nothing to hang their heads about. We are still Notre Dame men and our congratula­tions are 100 per cent for them. 
We have another alumnus to re­port as in our group here in Phoenix. He is J. N. HISS, class of 1927. His address is 708% E. Polk Street, Phoenix, Arizona. Mr. Hiss is the manager of one of the Standard Oil Company stations in Phoenix. 
JULIUS J. DANCH, Secretan'. 
* 
RHODE ISLAND 
Leo H. HcAIoon, '30. 260 Paivtucket Ave., Pawtucket, President John P. McEer­nan, '34, 206 Lockwood Ave., Providence, Secretary. 
ROCHESTER (New York) 
James Jones, '22, Central Trust Bldg., President. Frank Norton. '32, SO Beck-with Terrace, Secretarj-. 
* 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) 
Raymond C. Marelli, '27. 1312 Youne St., Rockford, III., President. Francis W. Hovrland, '25, 902 N. Main St., Rockford, 111., Secretary. 
SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) 
Thomas F. Van Aarle. '21. Standard Oil Co., Saginaw, Mich., President. William 
C. Hurley, '25, 117 Cherry St, Sapnavr. Mich. Secretary. 
SAN ANTONIO 
William V. Dielmann. Jr.. '25, 107 Thel­ma Drive. President Edward G. Conroy, '30. 204 R Craitr PI., Secretary. 
SIOUX CITY, IOWA 
Vincent F. Harrinirton. *25, Continental Mortease Co., President 
SPRINGFIELD ILLINOIS 
Michael F. Kinney. '31. State House, Pres-i-lint .T-""! Troy, ex. '28. 800 S. Ninth 
St, Secretary. 
ST. LOUIS 
Robert HellrunB, '30, 306 N. Grand Blvd., President; David J. Rcilley, Jr., '30, 1115 IiOuis\'ilIe Ave., Secretarj-. 
Monday night, November 4, the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis held an annual meeting for the purpose of electing officers.- Yours truly and the other officers of last year, namely, FRED SWITZER, Vice President, C.A.RROL PINKLEY, Treasurer, and DAVE EEILLEY, Secretary, were re­elected by acclamation 
Our special train to the Southern 
California game is progressing very 
well, and I feel sure that we will have 
a special train to South Bend to swell 
the alumni section and to root for 
Notre Dame. 
BOB HELLRUNG. 
• 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Francis Jones, '29, 802 I.O.O.F. Bide., South Bend. Ind., President Louis Chap­leau, '30, Union Trust Bide., South Bend, Ind., Secretarj'. 
The following may be of some value for the December issue of the ALUMNUS in regard to the activities of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley: 

BERT MALONEY and DILLON PATTERSON, as co-chairmen of the committee in charge of the smoker given by the Club on the evening of Friday, November 8, just before the Northwestern game, were responsible for the very successful evening's en­tertainment. More than 200 alumni, old students and friends of Notre Dame attended the smoker, the out­standing feature of which was the showing of the moving pictures of the Notre Dame-Ohio State game. Be­cause of the large crowd attending it was necessarj' that the pictures be shown twice. ELMER LAYDEN was the speaker, PAT MANION was mas­ter of ceremonies and BILL FUREY sang. 
The Club also sponsored a smoker on Friday, November 22, at the Jef­ferson Plaza. The committee for this meeting was FRANK COUGHLIN and GUS BONDL Many of the old students of the University who were in the city for the purpose of attend­ing t he Southern California - Notre Dame game the next day attended. The purpose of the smoker was to honor JOSEPH CASASANTA and his Notre Dame Band. 
President FRANCIS JONES has announced that he has appointed a committee which is now engaged in assisting the University on arrange­ments in connection with the visit of President Roosevelt at the University December 9. 
The weekly luncheon sponsored by the Club on Friday noon of each week has been regularly attended by a great number of the members of the Club and it has been decided to continue these luncheons as a regular activity of the Club. Place: La Salle Hotel. 
The football banquet committee, headed by FRANK DONOVAN, has promised that there will be several nationally known guests at the speak­ers' table at the annual banquet. 
EDDIE EVERETT'S impersonation 

of "Bearskin" at a recent smoker has 
been the cause of a great deal of 
comment. Several requests have been 
made by out of town clubs for Mr. 
Everett to appear before them. NOR­
MAN HARTZER has assumed the po­
sition of manager of "Bearskin" and 
is outlining a tour to various points. 
LOUIS C. CHAPLEAU, 
Secretary. 

SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
Ward L. Leahy. '26, 307 Forest Hill Drive, Syracuse, President Francis J. Cashier, ex. '34, 111 Wendell Ave., Syracuse, Sec­retary. 
* 

TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt '11. 260 Melmore St, Pres­ident. Fred J. Waener, '29, 152 Sj-camore St , Secretary. 

TOLEDO 
Norbcrt Scharf, "26 Toledo Edison Co.. President Joseph L. Wetli. '31, 717 Starr Ave., Secretary. 

Your repeated requests for news from the Notre Dame Club of Toledo and my continued failure to respond thereto makes me very humble in­deed. One reason for this neglect may be attributed to lack of news but, the greatest drawback is my in­herited aversion to writing letters. 
During the past year our club ha.« promoted some very enjoyable, al­though not always profitable, social ventures. On one occasion our efforts to aid a student in the matter of sum­mer unemployment resulted in our becoming slightly involved in the trucking industry. As a consequence of that experience we are following the sage advice of a counsellor—^who says "Put your money in bricks, they don't rot." 
By virtue of a recent club political campaign the official personnel now stands as follows: NORBERT SCHARF, president, EDWARD J. HAGERTY, vice president, URBAN GRADEL, treasurer, and JOE WET­LI, secretary. 
I am happy to report also that one of our members, JOHN Q. CAREY, who has achieved an enviable record for excellent public service as a state legislator, was recently elected one of the nine members of the new Citj' of Toledo Council. At the present time John is probably the most out­standing and most popular young Democrat in Northwestern Ohio. An­other young grad with a flair for pol­itics is JOHN CONNOLLY who is one of the officers of the Lucas County Democratic Executive Committee. The success of Central High, To­
December, 1935 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ledo's only undefeated football team, can largely be attributed to "Buck­eye" Connolly's hard working coach­ing endeavors. 
Quite a large delegation of Toledo alumni and friends were on hand to witness that hair-raising thriller at Columbus and all are in accord with the fine showing made by LAYDEN and his boys this year. 
JOSEPH L. WETLI, 
Secretary. 
TRI-CITIES (Iliinois-Iowa) 
Richard B. Swift, '20, Kahl Bide.. Daven­
port, Iowa, President. Arthur L. Himbert, 
•32, 527 39th St. Kock Island, III.. Sec­retary. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
William Hogan. '32, 62 Mary St., Binp­hamton, N. Y., President "William Yeager, '34, 18 Vine St., Binghamton, New York, Secretary. 
* 
TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) 
John D. Yclland. '30, 3221 Holmes Ave., So., Minneapolis, President; Joseph R. Schroeder, '31, 219 Fremont Ave., N., Minneapolis, Secretary. 
The following are the news scraps I've picked for the December issue of the ALUMNUS: 
The University of Notre Dame -\lumni Club of Minnesota will hold its annual Christmas Ball on the eve­ning of December 26 in the Conti­nental Eoom of the St. Paul Hotel. This announcement was made by JOHN D. YELLAND, president, at a meeting of the Twin City group at the To\vn and Country Club. GER­ALD CONWAY and ROBERT D. SULLIVAN of Minneapolis are vice-presidents and JOSEPH R. SCHROE­DER is secretary-treasurer. 
Each year, between Christmas and New Year, the Notre Dame alumni, the present students at Notre Dame and their friends get together at the Christmas Ball to celebrate the holi­day season and this Ball is one of the outstanding parties of the Twin Cities during the Christmas season. 
RALPH L. GLYNN, '01, now living in St. Paul, was the honored guest at a recent meeting at which he gave a very interesting account of the Ohio game which added greatly to the enjoyment of the meeting. A group of local alumni also heard the broadcast of Ohio State at a special whoop-up and needless to say the boys almost tore the place apart dur­ing the last minute of the game. 
MAURICE L. GRIFFIN, '29, has left the ranks of the few remaining bachelors. The boys wish him lots of luck. 
LOUIS REGAN, '29, is the cham­pion pheasant hunter of the state. Claims he shot 35 birds during the season, but of course he wouldn't care to have the game commissioner know about this. 
The Club wishes to express its deepest sympathy to JERRY CON­WAY on the recent death of his mother. 
JACK KEEPE and I are coming down for the So. Cal. game and will drop in and see you if you can spare the time. 
JOE SCHROEDER, Secretary. 
UTAH Raymond R. Brady, '24. 206 Eeams Bid?.. Salt Lake City, President. Cyril Harbecke, '19, 64 F. St., Salt Lake CSty, Secretary. 
November 8. 
Just a line to let you know we are not dead out in this part of the coun­try yet. 
Last Saturday afternoon a half dozen Notre' Dame fans had as our guest FRANK HERING at the Uni­versity Club and we listened to the Ohio State game, pass by pass. Al­though we were few in number I be­lieve we made up for it in enthusi­asm, and we all felt as if we were all there rooting for the old school. 
We were most happy to have Mr. Bering with us; he made a wonderful impression on the citizens of this city, and we are hoping that in some future time he mil come back to us again. 
RAY BRADY, President. 
UTICA, NEW YORK Dr. John F. Kelley, '22, Peoples' Gas & Electric Bids., President Joseph W. Pul­lem, '31, 1621 Neilson St, Secretary. 
WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) Noble Kizer, '25, Purdue University, Laf­ayette, Ind., President Peter Voet, Sec­retary. 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT John Robinson. *2S. 32 Farmtngtoa Ave.. President. James M, Monaghan, '27, 44 Ayer St., Secretary. 
* 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA Francis J. Wilson, '28, 1217 Melvem, Pittsburgh, President Edward J. O'Brien, Jr., '34, 446 Wood St, Pittsburgh, Sec­retary. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON John J. Dempsey, '95, Dempsey Lumber Co., Tacoma, President Robert I. Pigott, '32. 925 12th Ave., N.. Seattle, Secretary, 
WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA Thomas F. Howley, '11, Citizens-Peoples Trust Co.. •\Vhcelinff, President. George Sargus, '28. 2111 Belmont, Bellaire. Ohio, Secretary. 
* 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Moran, '29, 1348 Qulnn. President. Charles Cushwa, '31, 463 Madera Ave.. Secretary. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME Sister M. Frederick, C.S.C., S t Mary's College, Notre Dame. Ind„ President. Sis­ter M. Angelice, B.V.M., Secretary. 
G^MPUS AaivrriES 
(Continued from Page 72) 
broadcast over NBC . • . Miss Mar­garet Sweeney, South Bend, Indiana, sprained an ankle, and State Treas­urer J. Kirk Baldwin, Cheyenne, Wy­oming, sustained a fractured wrist as a result of jubilant leaps into the air following radio descriptions of Notre Dame's recording of their decisive touchdown against Ohio State . . . With charitable and social service work as their aim, forty students, under the direction of the Rev. John 
C. Kelley, C.S.C, have enrolled in the local unit of the Society of St. Vin­cent de Paul . . . The organiza­tion's president is Joseph DroUa, of New Orleans, Louisiana . . . Novem­ber was a busy month for the Band. . . , They were on hand both at the Ohio State and Axmy games . . . Guest speakers of the past month be­fore the general student body in­cluded Mrs. Masie Ward Sheehy, dis­tinguished English writer and lec­turer, Thomas A. Daly, noted poet and former editorial writer for the Philadelphia Record, and Professor Etienne Gilson, well known scholastic philosopher and authority on medi­eval scholasticism. . . Buy your tick­ets early for the Ohio State game. . . 
HAYES IS PROMOTED 
James D. Hayes, '17, has been ap­pointed assistant solicitor of the Vet­erans' Administration, Washington, 
D. C, according to an official an­nouncement made on November 16 by Frank T. Hines, administrator of veterans' affairs. Jim had been chair­man of the Administrator's Central Rating Board of the Veterans' Ad­ministration. 
As president of the Notre Dame Club of Washington, D. C, Jim is an active and able leader in the phenom­enal expansion of Notre Dame activi­ties in the National Capitol. 
NOTRE DAME 
One of the most remarkable high­lights of modem sport is the tremen­dous grip which Notre Dame has on the nation. In New England particu­larly the followers of the South Bend miracle men number thousands upon thousands. Countless peopl e who never attended college, and thousands who have attended other colleges, look upon a triumph of Notre Dame as a home town team win. Since a Salem youth, Wayne Millner, made possible the garrison finish against Ohio State Saturday that victory be­came more personal. Two traits brin g these devoted followers to Notre Dame. One is that the team never seems to develop fat-headed­ness. Another is it never gives up. And both these characteristics, when practised by an individual or a team, surely bring success.—Boston Post. 

THE ALUMNI 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Gertrude Miehels and JOHN T. HARRING­TON, '30. 
MARRIAGES 

DANIEL J. MAHONEY, '34, and Miss Priscilla O'Brien, were married November 16, at St. Patrick's Church, South Bend, Indiana. 
HOWARD E. PARKER, '17, and Miss Helene Busick were married October 22, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD J. VOLL were the attendants. 
E. M. LORDEN, '24, and Miss Ger­trude Belzold were married October 26, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
ESIMET F. DOHANY, '28, and Miss Marcella Dohertj' were man-ied October 24, in Kansas City, Missouri. 

JOHN P. WALTZ, '29, and Miss Catherine Coxey were married No­vember 20, at £t. Joseph's Church, Massillon, Ohio. WILLIAM D. WALTZ, '32, ser\'ed as best man. 
JACK FOGERTY, e.x. '30, and Miss Dorotha Frances Gunder were married last August 28, at Ehvood, Indiana. MAURICE O'BRIEN, ex. '29, was best man. 
RAYMOND J. SPAHR, '30, and Miss Pauline Mills were married last June 22, in Pittsburgh, Pa. 

RICHARD T. NEESON, '30, and Miss Mary Louise Hausman were married October 26, in Louis\'ille, Kentucky. 
ARTHUR CLINE, '32, and Miss Mary Elizabeth McCormick were mar­ried last June 15, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
DONALD O'TOOLE, '31, and Miss Marion Geddes were married October 5, in Chicago. 
DANIEL J. PFLAUM, '32, and Miss Mary Louise Cummins were married last June 8, in Omaha, Nebraska. 
ROLAND N. DAMES, '33, and Miss Marguerite Teipel were married October 25, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
LOUIS 0. STAELENS, '33, and Miss Kathryn Mary Slaughter were married November 11, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
ROBERT G. TISCHLER, '33, was married October 5, in Lakewood, Ohio. 
ROBERT J. HAUER, '34, and Miss Virginia Mae Hessle were married October 19, at St. Luke's Church, St. Paul, Minnesota. JOHN CARR, '34, was best man. 
JOSEPH L. WETLI, '31, and Miss Marian E. Bettinger were married last June 8, at St. James Church, Toledo, Ohio. EDWARD J. HAGER­TY, '26, and ART BROWN, '35, were ushers. 
From the Holy Cross Courier, St. Maiy's alumnae magazine, we learn of the following marriages: 
Pr. CORNELIUS S. HAGERTY, '25, and Miss Margaret Mulholland, August 21, Chicago, Illinois. 
ROBERT L PIGGOTT, '32, and Miss Harj' Hoifman, May 23, Seattle, Washington. 
JOSEPH F. MANSFIELD, '36, and Miss Marj' Helen Rohrbach, August 7, Notre Dame. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. CLARENCE J. K-AJSER, '25, announce the birth of a daughter, Jean, last May 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM R. BELL, '25, announce the birth of a son, October 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. FR.ANCIS DONO­VAN, '28, announce the birth of a son, October 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD W. HAL­LOBAN, '30, announce the birth of a son, Michael Henry, October 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD HEITZ, '32, announce the birth of a son, William Cassell, October 25. 
Dr. and Mrs. FRANCIS HEGAR­TY, '28, announce the birth of a daughter, Joan Louise, October 17. 
From the Holy Cross Courier, St. Marj''s alumnae magazine, we learn of the following births: 
Mr. and Mrs. F. NORDHOFF HOFFMAN , '33, daughter, Mary Frances, August 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. T. JOHN FOLKS, Jr., '30, son, Thomas John, III, Sep­tember 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD OELER­ICH, ex. '32, son, Richard, Jr., July 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT B. KIRBY, '29, son, Robert E., Jr., September 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT BRAN­NON, '30, daughter, Patricia, Febru­ary 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES J, DUNNI­GAN, '34, son, James J., Jr., May 15. 
DEATHS 
A staunch Notre Dame supporter 
through many yeare, WILLIAM "KENNELLY O'CONNELL, B.S., '87, of Monticello, Indiana, died on Octo­ber 18 in St. Francis Hospital, Evan­ston, Illinois. The cause of death was pulmonarj' embolism. Bom on July 8, 1865, Mr. O'Connell entered Notre Dame in September, 1883 and re­
ceived his degree on June 21, 1887. 
A terrifying automobile accident in Mishawaka early Sunday morning, November 10, took the lives of TER­RILL AUSTIN, '34, of South Bend, and GILBERT ELLIOTT, South Bend, both first year law students in the Universitj' and two girls who were riding in the car with them. 
Seriously injured were Norman Duke, '34, of LaPoi-te, Indiana, for­mer track athlete, driver of one car, and Fred Weidner, '35, former foot­ball player, also of LaPorte, Fred's sister, and Jack Reed, ex. '33, and John Singler, ex. '34, driver of the other car, both of South Bend. The crash involved three cars, but the occupants of the third car escaped serious injur}'. 
Terry, widely known and exceed­ingly popular on the campus, was in his undergraduate days a prominent member of both the Glee Club and the Band and was this year again participating in Universitj' musical activities. Gilbert was graduated from DePauw University in 1934. Law students attended in large num­bers the funeral services for both men. 
As this is written, all the seriously injured victims of the accident are recovering satisfactorily. 
On the day he was to have been appointed office manager in the office of Sears, Roebuck and Company in Chicago, JAMES E. GRAY, '28, died as the result of typhoid fever which combined in the end with pneumonia. A bridegroom of only six months Jim and his wife lived in Oak Park, Chi­cago suburb. He had been statis­tician in the Sears offices, according to his cousin, Ed Meredith, '30, of South Bend. On the campus Jim had spent three years as secretary to Dean McCarthy. 

In the death of Most Rev. PHILIP 

E. McDEVITT, LL.D., late Bishop of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, Notre Dame, the alumni and the students lost one of their most sincere friends and most loyal supporters. In the words of the Religious Bulletin: "If there was any one characteristic which stood out in Bishop McDevitt's life, it was his interest in Catholic education. And if there was one in­stitution which embodied his ideals, that institution was the University of Notre Dame. He knew Notre Dame and loved its student body. More than most other people he sensed what was being done here. And he carried that appreciation in the Cath­olic education field which he served eminently for many years." 
Father John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, repre­sented Notre Dame at Bishop Mc­Devitt's funeral. 
PAUL J. RYAN, LL.B., '19, of Johnstown, Pennsylvania, a "Lifer" widely known on the campus as "Muggs" during his Notre Dame prep school days, died on November 6 in Somerset, Pennsylvania, accord­ing to word very thoughtfully relayed to the Alumni Office by one of his good friends, Danny Hilgartner. 
A man who had carried steel for the construction of the golden dome, JAMES McCAFFERY, aged 74, fa­ther of Joe, '11, and Bernie McCaf­fei-j', '22, died in South Bend on Octo­ber 19, the victim of an automobile collision at Madison and Eddy Sti-eets, just south of the campus. Mr. Mc-Caffery had spent 48 years of his life working at Notre Dame and only a short time before the accident had re­tired from his position as general su­perintendent of maintenance for the University. Earlier in his career he had been foreman of the University bricklayers. 
An explosion in his home town of Moraence, Illinois, claimed the life of VARNUJI PARISH, '35, on October 
20. One of two Seniors to vnn last year a Public Affairs intemeship in Washington, D. C, awarded by the Institution of Public Affairs, Vamum spent three months in the Capitol studying and participating in the affairs of the federal government. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sym­pathy to: OLIVER SCHELL, '29, upon the death of his mother; BER­NARD, '30, and TOM CONROY, '27, upon the death of their father; TONY ANZLOVAR, '34, upon the death of his brother; MIKE KOKEN, '33, upon the death of his mother; ELLIS BLOMSTROM, '31, upon the death of his father; TOM HAVICAN, '11, upon the death of his mother; JOHN RILEY, '17, upon the death of his father; CY BLAKE, '35, upon the death of his father; HUGH A. GAL­LAGHER, '30, upon the death of his father. 
PERSONALS 

Before 1880 "on. ThomM F. GB11«­her, Fitchbnrff, Mass. 
1880-1885 ^"f-^'^•^ M- Anderson. 
Circltyillc, Ohio. 

188 6 I^^°<:1 O. Bnms. 33S S. Second St., 
Hamilton. Ohio. 

1887-1888 ^°^^ L. Hcineman, Conners­ville, Indiana. 
FATHER JAMES A. BURNS, 

C.S.C, United States Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, is en route to India, by way of Rome, to visit the Bengal missions which are under C.S.C. care. During Father Bums' absence of several months P.A.­THER THOMAS A. STEINER, C.S.C, Assistant Provincial, vd\l di­rect provincial activities. 
188 9 '*-^ Bnrke, 301 Camp SL. New Or­
leans, La. 
* 

1890-1893 '-°'''' ^- Ch°t'> 7 University 
Ave.. Minneapolis, Minn. 

1A4 4 HoKh A. O'Donnell, 1 W. 67th St., "*' New York City. 
189 5 ^•>^'^<» CoUinan, Sr.. 860 Phelan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 
lao g William P. Bums. 327 Willard Ave., "*^ Michigan City, Ind. 
1897 ^^^* ^' A* MacNamara, St. Joseph's 
Sanitarium. Mt. Clemens, Mich. 

189 8 ^•U'Ain C. Kesler, 9th and Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 
IOQ Q Dr. Joseph F. Daane. 418 Jefferson 
iOS»i» Blvd.. Peoria. IIL 
lOn O ''°'"< ^^'- EsKoman. Old First Bank 
a^v w gjj^^ p|_ Wayne. Ind. 
* 

190 1 'loseph J. Snllivan, 1300, 139 N. Clark St., Chicago, IIL 
* 

1<)n 2 C. C MitcheU, 110 S. Dearborn St., lirvt. g^^ j_ Chicago, Dl. 
* 

14(1 ^ Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. a^u ^ Bldg.. Milwaukee, Wis. 
* 

KMV l Rohert Proctor. Monger Btdg., Elk­*'* " hart. Ind. 
190 5 DUK I J- O'Connor. II S. LaSalle St., 
'•"^^ Ckiaco. ID. 
DAN O'CONNOR reports for the class. He says: 
THOMAS J. WELCH, Law 1905, of Kewanee, Illinois, was recently elected President of the Fifth Su­preme Court District Federation of • Local Bar Associations. 
Tom is also very active in social and political affairs, and for the past six years has been a member of the Illinois Elks Association Crippled Children's Commission. 
Another item of news for your '0-3 column might be a reference in con­nection with the Old Timers' Home­coming to be held on November 23 on the occasion of the Southern Cali­fornia game. The famous and far-heralded RED SALMON will attend that gathering, provided I can use enough psychology on him to get him away from his very important work here in Chicago. He promised me that he would join me and I think he will. Red is handling important engineering work for the S. A. Healy Company, who are contractors and doing work on large tunnels in the Chicago area. 
iqn C Thomas A. LaOr. 811-13 
ii»uw g,j^^ Spokane. Wash. 
I on? ^"- Thomas E. Burke, a S. C No­tre Dame, Ind. 
Frank X. Cull. Bulkier Bldg.. 

1908 
land. Ohio. 

1909 ^ ^' ^''"T' ^o*" Dame. Ind. 
HOWARD "CAP" EDWARDS, of South Bend, general manager of the truck division of the Studebaker Cor­poration, and former football captain, is slowly recovering following an au­tomobile accident near Perth Amboy, New Jersey, on October 29, which left him with a concussion of the brain, a broken jaw and a broken arm. Also hurt in the same accident were Mrs. Edwards, who suffered in­juries about the head, and Mrs. Wil­liam H. Edwards, their daughter-in­law, Tho suffered fractures of both ankles and her right forearm. The younger Mr. Edwards, also a passen­ger in the car, escaped with minor bruises. 
The Edwards party drove East for the Navy game in Baltimore, then were to attend a truck show in New­ark, New Jersey, and return to Co­lumbus for the Ohio State game. iVlways a fervent Notre Dame booster Cap is one of the closest associates of ELMER LAYDEN and the football players. 
FRANK HERING, '98, South Bend, former president of the Alum­ni Association and present lay trustee of the University, reports a fine visit in Reno, recently vrith TED CAR­VILLE, who is United States district attorney for Nevada and district gov­ernor of the Alumni Association. Ted has ambitious plans for new Notre Dame activities in his territory. 
IQin Rc^-^ ^ MoriartT. 1900 Enclid 
•'^*" Ave., Oevcland, Ohio. 

1 q i 1 Fred Steen, 163S First National '•"'•'• Bank Bldg.. ChicaEO. HL 
* 

ial9 B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St., Fitts­*"*'' bnish. Pa. 
* 

1Q1Q James J. Devitt, 921 En^neers Bldj:., 
* Cleveland, Ohio. 

Frank H. Hayes. 406 Bank of Amer­
1914 
ica BIdff., Anaheim, Calif. 
* 

James E. Sanford, 1524 Farwell Ave., 
1915 
Chicaco, m. 
* 

Timothy P. Galrin, First Trust Bite., 1916 Hammond, Ind. 
* 

Edward J. McOskcr, 104 S. Union 
1917 
St, Elcin, ni. 
* 

John A. Lcmmer, 1110—5th Ave, S.. 
1918 
Escanaba, Klich. 

Secretarj' JOHN LEMMER writes: "Our old cheerleader, TOM KELLY, is still practicing law in Milwaukee. His address is 806 North 11th Street. Tom attended the "Wisconsin game and will be in New York for the Army game." The Alumni Office could add that Tom is one of the most interested and active members of the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee and a hard and effective worker in the pro­spective student program. His per­suasive tongue and keen wit make him outstanding among the city's speakers. 
1Q10 Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce Street, ^^^ ^ Gary, Ind. 
jg20~I'*° B. Ward, 1912 Black Bid?., Los Angeles, Calif. 
1091 Alden J. Casick, 1 Park Ave., Kew *''^ * Yoric City. 
AL SLAGGERT has been ap­pointed for his third term as a mem­ber of the Committee on Legal Ethics and Professional Conduct of the De­troit Bar Association. And, like TOM KELLY, '18, also a former cheer­leader, Al is an able and popular pub­lic speaker. His speaking engage­ments in November included an ad­dress at a rally of the Holy Name Society in St. Andrew's Parish, Sag­inaw, and a memorial address, in honor of the Council dead, before Gabriel Richard Council of the Knights of Columbus in Detroit. 
* 

1922 Gerald Ashe, Bntfalo Athletic Qub, **"•'• Bnffalo, New York. 
KID ASHE sends through the fol­lowing on the pony express: 
JOHN HART, who is associated with the U. S. Trucking Company, is stationed temporarily in Buffalo. 
Doctor EDDIE ANDERSON de­serves much credit for being one of the few football coaches this year to have an undefeated football team. Eddie's Holy Cross team has, as this is wiitten, but one game left to play on its schedule, and the record so far is marred only by a tie. 
Mr. and Mrs. VINCE HANRAHAN announce the birth of a daughter— Mary Dianne. We congratulate the parents. By the way the Hanrahans live at Avenida Pamplona No. 23, Guatemala, Central America, and Vince would appreciate even a brief note from some of his classmates. 
JOHN HUETHER is with the In­dustrial Di\ision of the General Elec­tric Company, Schenectady. John is never too busy to have a visit with his old pals when they turn up in Schenectady. 
Reports from the West Coast indi­cate that CLETE LYNCH was recent­ly seen in Los -4.ngeles. He was mov­ing light in a northerly direction. 
ED RAUB lost his hat at the Ohio State game. A lost hat at a football game is not an unusual occurrence, but it did seem strange that Ed would be looking skyward for his "stove" —^hats don't fly. 
We do not have reports of all the '22 men who saw the game at Colum­bus. -4.mong those present were: MORGAN SHEEDY, JOHN HART, and Doctor DAN SEXTON of St. Louis. 
1923 ^'"^ Castner, White Motor Co.. Cleveland, Ohio. 
FRANK WALLACE spent several days in mid-October browsing around the campus, speculating on the out­come of the Ohio State game, talking to the journalism students and gath­ering material for a new novel. At this writing, as just about everybody knows, Frank's story, "Odds Against Honor," is running serially in Colliers. 
One of our scouts sends through the message that JOE HENNEBER­RY is managing the Chicago office of the Commonwealth Loan Company. 
PAUL CASTNER sez to you: I had a pleasant surprise in seeing a member of '23 I hadn't seen or heard from for a number of years. KEVTN CURRAN, now Dr. Kevin Curran, dropped in my office in Cleveland, and I saw him at the N. D. party in New York after the Army game. He has spent about nine years finishing his medical training including finish­ing touches at University of Edin­burgh. He is now with his father in Kansas City, who is one of the most prominent eye surgeons in the coun­try. 
I also saw AL FICK in New York, where he is located. ED SHEA is still in Dayton, Ohio, where I had a pleasant visit with him a few weeks ago. I see JOHN MONTAGUE from time to time, both in Cleveland and Chicago. EDDIE GOULD had a spe­cial to New York for the Army game with about 80 aboard. Eddie, as you know, is one of Chicago's leading florists. 
I saw Father JOHN C.A.VANAUGH at Notre Dame. He, FRANK WAL­LACE and myself had a nice visit together. Frank is breaking into our national weeklies quite consistently, and is doing his usual fine job of writing up Notre Dame for the New York World-Telegram. 
I saw JOE C.ASASANTA at the Army game and heard his fine band both at Columbus and New York. The band is a credit to N. D. and Joe is the man responsible. 
I talked to CY NEFF the other day in Cleveland where he is located. I hear that FRANCIS X. DISNEY still holds forth in -A.lbany, New York, and NEIL FLINN is still hibernating in Superior, Wisconsin. Saw JUDGE CARBERRY in New York. He is helping JIM CROWLEY at Fordham. 
Let's hear from some of the rest of the class and start plans for an in­formal reunion at Commencement in 1936. 
|a24 James F. Hayes, Wm. J. Pedrick & *^* ^ Co., Empire State Bide., ti.Y.C 
HAROLD LONDO has changed his municipal duties in Green Bay, Wis­consin. He is now the engineer in charge of the water department. Har­old was down with his wife for the Southern Cal. game. 
In WTiting to DOCTOR COONEY from his post on the Detroit Neivs, CHARLIE MOLZ gives the following edifying report: "There is a little colony of Notre Dame newspapermen here now. Besides JERRY HOL­LAND, '25, and myself there is SEWARD BOWER, '26, on the News. RAY KEISER, '26, and TOM CO­MAN, '25, keep the fires lighted for the Associated Press. FRANK A­HEARN, '27, has moved East to the Gannett newspapers. You would be quite thrilled, I think, to hear the fine things they say about your boys in the A.P. organization." 
1925 J<>l"> ^ - Scallan, 79 E. Adams St. **'*•*' ChicaEO, m . 
JOHN W-AGNER, of Lafayette, Indiana, stopped in at the Alumni Office on October 25 to extend greet­ings. 
FRANK McSORLEY writes: "I re­ceived my copy of the ALUMNUS and noted that among the vititors at the Pitt game I was missing. My brother. 

JOHN, '28, and I saw the thi-iller from section ten and witnessed the Navy game at Baltimore and the Ohio State game, as well. 
"Since my last communication with you I am the proud father of another baby girl. Born September 23, 1935 at the Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, and baptized Mary Roberta." 
142R Dr. Gerald W. Hayu, 9G N. Walnut 
•'*'*'" St., East Orange, N. J. 
JERRY HAYES gets under way again with the following: 
I write this note hurriedly so that it may reach your oiiice before you go to press. My good intentions this year for this column have thus far gone awry but with the slightest help from the outside I shall make amends. 
You evidently missed our MARY —bom July 13, 1935. This, of course, has o'ershadowed all events in the Hayes household since my o^\-n benediction. She's a great little guy and we are having lots of fun with her. You may tell FATHER GENE BURKE that his attempt at her por­trait was a dismal failure. Rather than the Rocknoid caput, she resem­bles Paderewski. 
Jim, will you kindly see that JOHN REARDEN, '23, is placed upon your alumni list. After leaving Notre Dame, John studied medicine at Mc­Gill and later interned at the Lenox Hill Hospital and was resident for three years at the Sloan Hospital for Women in New York Citj'. . John now has an enviable staff appoint­ment at Sloan and is doing himself proud in the practice of gynecology and obsteti-ics in New York. He is an old student whom the doctors are all going to admire and I'd like to have that oversight—^his not being on the alumni list—corrected. 
DR. JOE FOLEY came on to Phil­adelphia from Waukegan last month. Joe and his delightful Philadelphia interest visited us here and later we met them in Baltimore after the Navj' game. Joe is doing well in the gen­eral practice of medicine in Wauke­gan. He also brings pleasant news concerning the way DAVE continues to fly the jtfURPHY banner in DLxon. .. . Big MAC McELLIGOTT found a few free moments in his busy ser­vice at the Boston City Hospital and rushed down to New York for the Army game. Mac is well and exceed­ingly happy in his %vork. 
Memories of old Cadillac were brought to me last month through a joyful note from TOM McNICHO-LAS. Tom is secretary to the presi­dent of the Maryland Casualty Com.­pany in Baltimore and is, as you have probably already noted, a benedict (Juanita Metz—South Bend). Tom's success in the Free State can't stjTnie those yearnings for his full eleven years at N. D. 
1927 Edxiunil DeCIerq, 8118 Ellis Are.. Chicaco, 111. 
149)1 Lonis Buckler, 718 E. Corby St , '•^'•° South Bend, Ind. 
JACK ROBINSON, of Waterbury, Connecticut, was recently appointed to a fine position in the State Tax Department; and was asked to teach an evening course in political science in a girls' college, near his home. 
1929 Joseph McNamara, 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
1930 Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth St., New Kensinston, Pa. 
The November ALUMNUS crashed through with the dope that JACK CANNON was studj'ing medicine in California. Instead of that, Jack is back in Columbus, Ohio, where he was one of the most hard-working and effective laborers—and "laborer" is really the word—in handling the mountain of details connected with the Ohio State week-end. 
ED HALLORAN, Urbana, Illinois, writes of two momentous events in the Halloran family. Ed has been ad­mitted to the practice of law in Illi­nois and is hard at it in his Urbana office in the Cohen Building. Second­ly, a prospective Notre Dame student (even if Illinois is just around the corner) arrived on October 13 to cheer the Halloran hearts. Congratu­lations, Ed. 
Just a few notes about some of the fellows I saw at the Ohio State and Army games. As you, too, were for­tunate enough to be in Columbus on that eventful day perhaps you can help me out a little. 
I recall seeing BERT METZGER, DEVERE PLUNKETT, AL SHIPA­CASSE, JOHN KISSANE, BILL BAMBRICK, ex '30, and JIM MAL­LOY, who is now located in Charles­ton, West Virginia. JOHN BELJON and his recent bride were there from Cleveland. 
Of course, the Columbus contin­gents consisting of the CANNONS, JOE RYAN, BILL BRESNAHAN, and JUDGE McBRIDE were hawng the time of their lives. Ryan and Bresnahan both had their wives along, but that didn't interfere with the celebrating. 
Did you see DAN CANNON, now of the bond department of the Bank of Ohio? He looked a little pale be­tiveen tRe halves. One couldn't blame him though, for he backed the team to the limit. However, Andy Pilney and the boys did their stuff and Dan will be eating free until Christmas, besides having his clothes pressed without charge and his laun­dry on the cuff. He even won a cake from an Ohio State co-ed. 
It was Jack's first N. D. game since he graduated as he has been down at .A.ubum and Georgia Tech for the past four years. Dan and Jack both helped to put over numerous dinners, luncheons, dances, etc. for the enter­tainment of the team, coaches, writ­ers, and fans. 
JIM DODSON drove with me and we both declared it a perfect week­end. 
The Army trip was made in the company of MORGAN and CHICK SHEEDY. Needless to say we had a swell time. Who doesn't at an Army game? 
I thought the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York did a great thing when they presented the Inter-hall League with the JOE SULLI­VAN Memorial Trophy. 
I remembered seeing a few of the fellows from the class of 1930. They included LEO LOVE, FRANK WALKER, TOM LANTRY, LARRY CRONIN and his bride, FRANK DUNN, Dr. BUCKY O'CONNOR, PETE QUINN, HARRY FRANCIS, JOHN LAW, of Sing Sing, JOE AB­BOTT, the builder, (Joe is working on the 70th Street Post OfBce now), ED ARTHUR,. CON CAREY, the 
J. P. from Saranac Lake, JIJI CAS­SIDY, LARRY COTTER, FRED DA­VIS, still of the New York Telephone Company, WARREN FOGEL, the promoter of the dances, HENRY FREY, JOE FRIEL, JOE KELLY, DICK DONOGHUE of the American Steel and Wire Company, DON LAURIE, FRANK MOSHER, ART McCANN, the Bronx Real Estate man, FRANK 0'ALA.RAH, TIM 0'­ROURKE, TOM BRADLEY, JERRY PARKER of the Centre Club, DEN­NY SHAW, HARRY SYLVESTER, the writer, JIM WILLIAMSON, GEORGE WINKLER, ED YORKE, CHARLES GIBBONS, JOHN COL­RICK of South Orange, and SAM­UEL "BO" RICHARDS, Attorney at Law, 710-14th St., N.W., Washing­ton, D.C. 
I understand BUS REDGATE and HOWIE SMITH, the coach, were at the Biltmore on Friday afternoon. almost forgot TOMJIY CUNNING­HAJVI, my old roommie, was among the early arrivals at the Yankee Sta­dium. 
I heard that GENE KENffEDY'S \vife presented him with number two last week. 
I probably saw a few others whom I cannot recall just now and I know there must have been plenty others there whom I didn't see. 
BERNIE CONROY. 

1931 ''°l™ ^ Boland, 1402 Linden St.. 
Scnnton, Pa. 
First ca\\ for the Five Year Re­union is hereby issued for all mem­bers of the class of 1931. Pin a note to your calendar and plan now to be 
present. 
JOHN BERGAN contributes the following items: 
The Pittsburgh game brought quite an influx of our class back to the campus. Among those noted were: FATHER BOURKE MOTSETT, who is assistant pastor of St. Mary's church, Canton, IlUnois, EDDIE RYAN who joins the benedicts' ranks on Thanksgiving day (he is to be married to Miss Bett\' O'Hara in Oak Park,Dlinois), BENNIE OAKES, big roofing man from Chicago; GENE VALLELY who is practicing law in Sharon, Pennsylvania, BOB NEY­DON, one of the Chrysler Motor boys; RAY ILANDC, Louisrille, who picked the day to be married to Miss Mary Seybert of Indianapolis in the Log Chapel. FATHER JOHN RYAN officiated at the ceremony. FRAN­CIS BROWN took time away from his duties as PainesrfUe's legal ad­viser to attend. He reports every­thing in fine shape down 'thar. 
ALBERT J. (BUD) TOUHY is now associated with the law firm of Paltrow and Rice at Bayside, Long Island. ART BERGEN completes his law course at New York this semester and hopes to be out for the USC game. Methinks a friend in South Bend has had something to do with his returning in cold, cold November. TOM ASHE is working in Los An­geles and doing right well. AUST BOYLE is chief draamtic critic with the New Orleans Times-Picayune. It's a girl with the PHIL KONOPS. They are li\'ing in Louisville. WAL­TER MUR1>HY is teaching school in Lanonia, New York and took time out to see the Pitt game as well as be best man at a wedding all in the same day. 
DR. ED DRAVES is interning in Mercy hospital Detroit and would en­joy seeing any of the old boys who get up that way. BERNIE LEAHY is with a health service in Chicago and is planning to be at the home games. TOM K.A.SSIS is assisting LARRY MULLINS at St. Benedict's and they are going swell, having lost but one game (to Kansas) this year. JOE LAUERMAN has picked the us e game to get his \iev! of the team while JACK SAUNDERS was down to the Navy game with DAN HAL­PIN. MATT CULINAN relates that the California grape crop was great this year. 
EDDIE BRENNAN is South Bend manager of the Chicago Herald-Ex­aminer and is doing a fine job of news-hawking about South Bend and environs. FRANK LEAHY is acting as chief scout for Fordham and is en­gaged in the insurance business with GEORGE VERGERA on the side. JOE DEEB is attorney for the HOLC in Grand Rapids and has JOHN LAUGHNA working under him. No news from the Indianapolis or Phila­delphia contingents. 
ED EVERETT did a good job of impersonating Bearskin at the St. Jo­seph Valley Club smoker, October 19. Best wishes to the DON O'TOOLES. Don was married to Miss Marion Geddes early in October. "Tung-Oil" CROWLEY did yeoman's service as an usher on that happy occasion. RAY COLLINS plans to leave the happy ranks soon, too. Early in No­vember sometime. TOM REED is working as claim adjuster for the Travelers Insurance Company in South Bend while LOU MARGER is branch manager for Silvercup bread. 
- GERARD McMANAMY write s from the Hall & McManamy Com­pany, insurance. brokers, Sherwood, Quebec, to subscribe for the Scholas­tic. He says: "Since leaving Notre Dame in 1931, I have more or less lost contact with the Universitj' prin­cipally because of the distance of my home and occupation from the Uni­versity, but neverthless I have man­aged to follow the career of the foot­ball team by listening in to the dif­ferent games over the radio." 
From the General Motors Institute, Flint, Michigan, comes a letter to the Registrar from CH.A.RLIE SLACK. . 
MOON MULLINS, who is men­tioned in the same breath with the Governor out in Kansas, is featured with NICK LUKATS, '34, in the talkie picture "Fighting Youth," which stars Charlie Farrell. It is the story of the radicals in a college try­ing to undermine the football team. Guess who comes out ahead! 
1 Q^ 9 Herbert Giorcio, 9003 188th St., Hol­*^"' * lij, L. I., New York. 
AZIZ SALIBA EL-ARAJ is taking law at DePaul University in Chicago and teaching as well in the De Paul high school. 
1933 I>°ndd Wise, 110 Pleasant St., Jo-Uet, lU. 
TONY BRICK, e-x '33, would like to hear from some of his old class­mates. He is in his second year of law school at Noti-e Dame and can be reached by addressing 225 Sorin Hall. 
* 
IQ^ d James Moscow, 2320 N. Lawndale ^"^^ Ave., ChicaEO, IlL 
RALPH E. ROGERS, M.A., '34, sailed from San Francisco with his wife and seven-months' old baby girl, for an indefinite ^^sit to his wife's home in Peru, South America. There the Rogers family will live on one of the haciendas in the vicinity of Are­quipa, Peru, and devote their time to raising cattle. 
ED MANSFIELD has been discov­ered by his one-time associates at Notre Dame through a signed article in The Catholic Week, Birmingham, Alabama. Herein he appears as a staff writer, and he contributes the leading feature of the edition, a sou­venir jubilee number of seven sec­tions. At Notre Dame, Ed w^as the sole representative of the Tarheel state. 
CLYDE ROBERTS, here for the Northwestern game, reports he is still employed by the Sanitary District of Chicago in the engineering depart­ment. Clyde is now living at 6437 Kimbark Avenue. Last month he took 15 chances at a church raflSe with the result he is now driving his prize, a Ford V-8. 
DAN BRENNAN, according to re­ports from Scout HOCHREITER, '35, is in the law school at Dickinson Col­lege, Carlisle, Pennsylvania. 
In writing from Racine, Wisconsin, where he is advertising manager for the Dunmore Company, makers of electric motors, tools and appliances, BOB HAMILTON says (after asking to have his home address changed to 1345 Deane Boulevard): "Saw JOE McCABE, '33, in Chicago. Plan on coming down for the Southern Cal. game. By the way, BILL FROMM, '34, my brother JIM, '35, and I get together with my wife (St. Mary's, '34) on cards and N. D. talk fre­quently. Jim, Bill and I are working at Dunmore." 
1935 F'^x'dyn C. Hocfaieiter, 722 Liiine­
slon Hall Colnmbia Univ., New 
York Citr-
Our Mr. HOCHREITER comes through with another star perform­ance, as follows: 
The class of '35 wishes to express to the family of VARNUM PARRISH its profound sympathy in their be­reavement on his death. We, too, grieve the loss of Vamey as he was one of our members who won the hearts of his classmates by his quiet and charming personality. 
We noted in the last number that the doings of three of the '35ers were cut—due to lack of space—so we intend to see justice done at the outset by giving them first prefer­ence. JIM REVILLE is a govern­ment engineer here in the city and doing very well. BILL KENNEDY is no longer "free-lancing" as re­ported in the October number but is now a "salaried" newspaper man on the Brooklyn Daily Eagle. CLIFF WELSH is applying the principles of secondary education to the banking business in Whippany, New Jersey. We query as to whether the clients are more susceptible than the South Bend youngsters who "listened" to Cliff for hours? 

It seemed to us over the Army­week-end that every Notre Dame man from coast to coast was in the "big" city. "Scribe" CARBINE got us out of bed to make known his where­abouts and then did not show up at a party he promised to attend. 
(Seems that we recall trouble with him over Commencement ushering, too.) 
TOM PROCTOR flooded the mails with letters concerning his arrival and then either missed his train or got lost somewhere between the station and our sanctum. We wonder if he really did get here. [Ed's Note: No. Greeley's advice got him.] 
At the game we ran into ART GREGORY and LUKE KELLY both of whom are back at school continu­ing their studies. 
EDDIE BRACKEN told us that he is enjoying the "newness" of draw­ing a salary from Western Newspaper Union here in town. 
JOE BITTNER is pulling a duo by working on Wall Street all day and attending law school at night. We think it is Fordham. 
Pausing at the Pennsylvania for a moment after the dinner dance we saw JIM BARTLEY with his beam­ing smile. He informed us that he was still "looking" for a place—^we think he meant work. 
While at the Lexington (with VINCE GORMAN) we saw FRANK HOLLAHAN and RAY BRODERICK. Frank is working for the government as a "national bank examiner." (Al­ways knew he would pull a fast one on us.) Ray is down at Penn law school. Strange, but he said it is a bit tough. We were informed that JACK MATHEWS is down there pur­suing the books of Blackstone, too. 
JOHN LYNCH and BOB AL­BERTS were in to^vn and ritzing it at the Hotel Biltmore. 
We cannot leave the Notre Dame-Army game without a word about the band. We think Joe Casasanta "stole the show" during the half. It was not only snappy; it was good. Com­ing into the stadium we heard some people asking what the Midshipmen were doing at the game. It was a pleasure to inform them that it was the Notre Dame band. 
From devious people and places we have the following dope: AL LAW­TON is selling insurance in Cleve­land. ANDY DINEEN is with JOHN­NY COLE at Jefferson Med School in Philadelphia. BILL LORD is pur­suading the Pittsburgh residents how uncertain life is and how good his in­surance is supposed to be. We under­stand RAY MARGRETT is waiting for an opening. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JOHN MALLOY has just finished a Travelers' Insurance course in Hartford, Connecticut, and has re­turned to native Chi to try his talent on the windy city. VAIL CLIFF is working for Dunn and Bradstreet. PHIL JACOBS is using his hard-earned accounting knowl­edge to advantage in a bank in Alex­andria, Louisiana. FRANK LEON­ARD is employed by Sears Roebuck in Chicago, while DON HAVERICK has taken to the insurance business in Columbus, Ohio. 
BERNARD O'BRIEN is to be mar­ried very shortly. We hear he is working in Chi. "BUTCH" ESSER is employed in Aurora, Illinois—the company's name has not come to our attention. 
A couple weeks ago we received a letter from ED VAN HUISSELING. He says he has "many irons in the fire that are beginning to show red" and hopes to be working soon as a re­sult. He volunteered valuable infor­mation that we appreciate. It follows: 
JAMES SXXLLIVAN is working for Commercial Solvents, a distillery, in his home town—Terre Haute. AL RUBLY is a technician for the WPA in Rockford, Illinois. His side-kick, RAY KEATING, is supposed to be in Washington, D. C. JOE BUCCI, when last heard from, was praying for a republican landslide in Amsterdam, New York which would net him a job in the local city hall. TOM MASTER­SON and BILL STEISS were encoun­tered while on a mad hunt for the "elusive job" in the "Loop." 
We were "torn" away from the books one evening at 10:30 recently when JACK GERRITS blew in after class. He is working for his father in Yonkers and takes class tivo nights a week in Columbia Business school. JESUS ROCES is also at Columbia Business School. 
It comes to our ears that JIM KRAFTHEFER is working for Old-man Buyoner Truck Company in Chi­cago while JACK C. FL.A.NIGAN is with the Chicago Motor Club. LARRY LAFFERTY is aiding his brother in­surance salesmen in taking the wd­ow's last dime. GLEN DUBS is em­ployed by the Canton Pattern Com­pany in his Ohio home. 
ART KORZENESKI sent us a manuscript tha t was decipherable only after long hours of tedious con­centration. It seems that he highly resents the report in last issue that he was at DePaul. Art is selling his ware s at Loyola University law school. Already he has "talked" his w^ay into a three year elective posi­tion as head of the Union. (That is the name given the Student Govern­ment out there.) 
DICKBALLMANand JOHN BURKE are wondering about "uni­
85 

lateral" contracts in Marquette law school, while JOHN CORRIGAN is doing his interior decorating appren­tice work in the drapery department of Gimbel's in Milwaukee. 
JOHN KUNJ is about to start to work for the government. Which re­minds us that we are informed that most of the Notre Dame men at Georgetown are working for the gov­ernment on the side. MAURICE "ARKY" FAIRHEAD had Senator Joe Robinson fix him up. Maybe "we" should transfer down there next year. 
We wish to correct two statements of last number concerning the where­abouts of JIM DILLON and JOHN HIGGINS. Jim is at Pitt law school and not Penn. John dropped us a few lines to say that he is at Dickin­son College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, pondering ove r the intricacies of criminal and civil action in "tort"; in other words he is taking law. 
We sincerely appreciate the coop­eration that you, who have contacted us relative information on the gang, have given us. Let us have a lot more. 
That about concludes our news sheet for this month. It is a little premature but it is in order—^here is for a Merry Christmas and not too much "bottled" spirits. 
Here's more dope on the '35ers: 
NEIL FARRELL is enrolled in the graduate school of the University of Louisville. 
BILL HOFFERT is taking addi­tional work in the Central Y.M.C.A. College, Chicago. According to pre­vious reports. Bill is with the Adver­tising Department of the Chicago Daily Neivs. 
JERRY FOLEY is a cotton grader for the Anderson and Clayton Com­pany, Memphis. 
JIM CRONIN is with the American Screw Company, Chicago. 
RAFAEL ROCES, A.M. '35, writes DOCTOR COONEY fascinatingly from Berlin. He says in part: "Since leaving Notre Dame last Summer I have been touring Europe, and after two days of hopping about and dodg­ing the bicycles that swarm the Am­sterdam streets, I now find myself in Berlin, slightly amused by the Ger­man goose-step, and delighted with the city, and German character. 
"During the course of my trip, I was lucky enough to meet several travelling journalists, and enjoyed many chats with them, and had the good fortune to sit with the press during some of the Geneva discus­sions on the Italo-Ethiopion situation. 
"I leave Berlin for Vienna tomor­row, and then to Budapest, etc., and on to Venice where I board an Italian liner for Manila. . . . 
"I expect to join the staff of the Manila Tribune, a morning daily, where I hope the Notre Dame classes will help me hold the job." 
PAT FITZPATRICK and JOHN WALTER are at M.I.T. for graduate work. 
GEORGE FOSS and HAROLD GOEBEL, the latter editor of the Catalyzer last year and campus guide de luxe for the past two Summers, are doing graduate work at Notre Dame, the former in metallurgy and the latter in chemistrj'. 

To PAUL DOYLE, '36, editor of this year's Catalyzer and brother of GERRY, '35, we are indebted for the following '35 items, sheared with one grand shear from the October issue of Paul's excellent publication: 
RED CARESIO is working for the Cellufoam Corporation at 5300 West 66th Street in Chicago. JIM DAN­EHY worked for the above company during the summer and when he re­signed to resume studies at Notre Dame, Caresio took his place. 
MEL SEE is employed in the lab of the Armour Soap Works. 
. JOE CONLON, as the news comes to us through various channels, is working for "Technicolor" in Holly­wood. 
RALPH GAUTHIER is the repre­sentative of the McGraw-Hill Pub­lishing Company in Vermont. 
FRANK WEINMANN is employed by the R & H department of duPont at Rochester and is working under Dr. JOE REICHERT, Ph.D. '22, who formerly taught in this Department. 
TOM WILLIAMSEN is employed in the laboratories of the Bendix Cor­poration. 
JOE JOHN is working for one of the steel companies in East Chicago, according to reports. 
EUSS COMPA Is working for the Pfister Paint Company in his home town, Bogota, New Jersey. 
DICK BIGGINS, after a brief in­ter\'al with the public utility com­pany in Fort Wayne, is now working for Dr. THOMAS H. VAUGHN, B.S. '31, M.S. '32, Ph.D. '34, at the Union Carbide and Carbon Research Lab­oratories in Niagara Falls. 
JACK COOGAN writes that he is employed in the laboratories of the duPont Rayon Company in Buffalo and lives at 75 Henrietta Avenue. He tells us that Russ Compa is working for Colgate's. Elsewhere we have reported Russ as working for a differ­ent firm. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
TEXAS ALUMNI HAVE ENTHUSIASTIC MEETING 
Clyde E. Broussard, '13, writes 

verj- interestingly not to say crashing­
ly, of a Notre Dame gathering in 
"Texas. He says: 
"Because of the fact that a number 

of years were represented I thought 
you might be interested in the din­
ner that was given in honor of T. J. 
Foley, '35 Commerce, 1934 Cheer 
Leader, at Hotel Beaumont, Beau­
mont, Texas, on August 15, an ap­
propriate day for a "Notre Dame" 
gathering. 
"All Notre Dame graduates of Beaumont and Port Arthur were in­vited. They were Alfred J. Duperier, LL.B., 'Oo', a Breen Medalist, Harry 
P. Barrj', LL.B., '01, Leo J. Hannon, M.E., '09, Clyde E. Broussard, M.E. '13, Richard T. Braun, Ch.E., '14, Leo Mixson, M.E. '23, Joseph E. Broussard, Jr., B.C.S. '26, Erwin J. LeBlanc, B.C.S. '26, Joseph J. Hebert, 
B.C.S.
 '28, Christie Flanagan (The Christie of N. D.-Army game), A.B. '28, Herbert Schulz, A.B. '28, Burl 

J.
 Boykin, B.S.M.E. '30, and Thomas 

A.
 Hughen, A.B. '33, and LL.B. '35. 


"Others present were A. W. (Son­ny) Duperier, former student and Jo­seph E. Broussard, prospective stu­dent. 
"A verj' pleasant evening was spent bringing the old timers up to date on Notre Dame and reminiscing all along the period from the nineties up to June, 1935. Some of the men, including the writer who entered in September, 1906 in the Prep, depart­ment, were surprised to learn from the real old timers that none of the Halls were equipped with plumbing until about 1900. The reminiscing in­cluded a description of the wholesale destruction of the vessels of china, via the windows of Sorin into the paved court, the first night the plumb­ing was available. You must admit that that was going a long way back." 
FRENCH CONSUL.ON CAMPUS 

Rene Weiller, consul general of France in Chicago, with his \vife was a campus visitor in October. Wel­comed to the University by Father John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, President, the Weillers were escorted around the grounds by their friend. Professor Earl Langwell of the Department of Modem Languages. Particularly in­teresting to them was the Log Chapel. They were inspired, too, by the French beginnings of the University. 
From the Comellian Council Bull­etin: "Fifteen outstanding prepar­atory and high school graduates from thirteen states, chosen on the basis of scholarship, character and personality from more than 200 applicants, have been awarded the new McMullen Reg­ional Scholarships in Engineering..." 
December, 1935 

MIKE, OF HULLIE & MIKE'S, DIES IN S. B. 
Michael F. Calnon, the famous 

Mike of HuUie and Mike's, died in 
South Bend in late October after a 
lingering illness. 
Noted through many genei-ations of students as one of the most loyal and most ardent of Notre Dame sup­porters, Mike was likewise known to innumerable alumni as one of the proprietors of the principal downtown student gathering place of other days. Friend of Rockne even while Rock was a student and friend of Notre Dame before Notre Dame had gained its present international position, Mike continued through the years as one of Rock's unwavering and ever-present supporters — and Hunk An­derson's and Elmer Layden's as well —and as one of Notre Dame's firmest boosters. 
The traditional devotion of HuUie and Mike — George Hull and Mike Calnon—to Notre Dame was publicly recognized at the football banquet last January when a tribute to them, ^vritten by Father Tom Burke, C.S.C, was read. The tribute appeared in the June issue of the ALUSINUS. 
Of recent years Mike had operated the famous cigar store on Michigan Street by himself. George Hull is president of the South Bend city council. 
Father Tom Burke preached the sermon at the funeral Mass for Michael on October 26. Father Wil­liam F. Minnick, C.S.C, pastor of St. Patrick's Church, South Bend, was celebrant of the Mass, assisted by Fa­ther John F. DeGroote, C.S.C, Father Wendell P. Corcoran, C.S.C, and Fa­ther William Connor, C.S.C. Elmer Layden and Joe Boland were among the list of honorary pallbearers. 
ALUMNI BRAVE RAIN TO SEE N. W. DEFEAT 
The following were among the many alumni who were present for that wet and gloomy afternoon, No­vember 9, on which Notre Dame suc­cumbed to Northwestern: 
Willard Jones, Nick Bohling, Vem Knox, Bob Knox, Bob Baer, Henry Bamhart, Fred Becklenberg, Pat Crowley, George Ludwig, George Jackoboice, Bill Reisert, Tony Schreiner, Vic Martzel, Fred Steers, Ed Lindemann, Pat McLaughlin. 
Henry Asman, Tom Cannon, Wal­ter Duncan, Paul Duncan, John P. Murphy, Father Bemie Coughlin, E. 
L. Holland, Walter Miller, Harry Mil­ler, Frank Cull, BjTon Kanaley, Prank Walker, George Anson, Father William A. Scullen, LL.D. 
Jack Elder, Al McEachem, Jim Collins, John Cahill, George Shields, Art Smith, Marc Fiehrer, Tom Feely, Ed Krause, Bud LaBome. 
GENUS N.D. LAWYER-ORIGIN and DEVELOPMENT 
With Native Habitats As Closely As Questionnaires and Club Cooperation and Letterheads Permit Office to Come; Hope for Directory 
So many Notre Dame lawyers have Tjecome prominent in near and far places, the ALUMNUS believes it time to comment briefly on the phenom­enon. The present College of Law, functioning in its magnificent build­ing, ^\^th its able, specialized faculty, answers its own inquirers concerning the many young lawyers now dotting the legal landscape. But what of those many, comparatively, older men, who, in one of the most competitive fields, have risen far above the aver­age level; have achieved what would seem to be disproportionate success from a law school standpoint; whose applications of legal training are almost as varied as the scope of law itself. 
There must have been more in their origin than met the eye. Could one man, one room, produce men who are making legal history? The ALUM­NUS says they could and did. And w^hat better proof than that magnifi­cent address, — embodying all the struggle, all the history, all the suc­cess, all the handicaps, all the per­sonal greatness as well as the personal eccentricities, — delivered by Dean William Hoynes, even then retired, at the dedication of the Hoynes College of Law in 1919. 
Following are two major contribu­tions the 'ALUMNUS for 1935-36 is privileged to make. First is the bulk of the Colonel's address, outlining the history, the methods, and the objec­tives as no one else could, of the Col­lege of Law. Second, a list of Notre Dame's practicing lawyers. 
The latter does not purport to be a Directory. It has been impossible, to date, to secure anything resem­bling a comprehensive list of practic­ing lawyers who are Notre Dame men. We have searched the Question­naires sent out. We have asked the Clubs to send us lists from the Club communities. We have clipped letter­heads for more than a year. And from these we have compiled what we hope will be an interesting and use­ful, if incomplete, list of Notre Dame lawyers. Some of these men received their LL.B. at Notre Dame. Others received their background here and their law elsewhere. We hope, also, that it will stimulate the N. D. law­yers not listed to send in their names and addresses so that a Legal Direc­tory can be prepared. 
The Colonel's Address 

Let me thank you, and from the fulness of a grateful heart I do so, for your participation in the dedica­
tory exercises of this spacious, ser­viceable and suitably equipped law building. 
It symbolizes admirably the things that stand foremost in the conception of civilization and human welfare, as religion, education, justice, peace and progress. It implies the creative and wholesome side of life, as mani­fest in growth, advancement and tranquillity rather than in the retro­
"THE COLONEL" 
In His Cherished Uniform 

gressive trend observable in slothful­ness, enmity, vice, degeneracy, and the perverted activities of war. It stands for the safety and welfare of country and humanity in the declared right of every individual to life, lib­erty, property, and the free exercise of religious belief, in the light of con­science. It stands as a barrier against the persistent assaults and insidious encroachments of crimes, moral delin­quency, communism, anarchy, spoilia­tion and rapine. Well may the law be hailed as the last and solely de­pendable harrier against the subver­sion of society and the recrudescence 
of the cave-dweller. . . . 
After the Civil War, being one of the most youthful who actively par­ticipated in it, I matriculated here as a student, and thus became acquainted with Fathers Sorin, Granger, Lemon­nier. Carrier, Gillespie, Brown, Hal­linan, Corby, and other devoted and distinguished men whose names are lovingly enshrined in the annals of the University, and whose revered memory we fondly cherish. In their day Notre Dame ranked conspicuous­ly high among contemporaries in edu­cational standards, and early in 1869, as I remember, Father Corby sought to add a law course to its curricula. In line with the undertaking some of the students procured law books and pursued a course of reading in con­nection with their other studies. But the time seemed hardly ripe for the venture, and it fell into gradual ob­solescence. Prior even to its incep­tion I had decided to study law at the University of Michigan, and be­gan work there in the time of its most notable efficiency and popular­ity, when the distinguished Judges Cooley and Campbell and Messrs. Kent and Walker were the regular professors. -After graduation and ad­mission to the bar it became a puz­zling question whether I should take up the practice of the law, with its attendant expense and problematical income, or enter the field of journal­ism in response to an alluring offer. Assuming that the position of editor would constitute a creditable land­mark in life's record, not to mention its comparatively lucrative nature and 
independence as to duration, I turned to the proffered newspaper work, with which I was familiar from "case" to sanctum, and served as editor for sev­eral years. 
In fact, I did not resolutely de­cide to give up journalism and turn exclusively to the law until 1882. It was very encouraging to meet with the success that welcomed me into the practice. Business came even before the opening of my office in Chicago, and continued thereafter steadily to grow. The outlook appeared to be exceptionally promising. 
So it was when one afternoon in the Autumn of that year the Rev. Dr. John A. Zahm, Vice-President of the University, called at my office and stated, greatly to my surprise, that he and Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, who was singularly gifted and erudite as linguist, scholar and president, de­sired to have me give up my practice, move to Notre Dame, take charge of the Law Department and seek to build it up. I entertained then, as I do now, a feeling of deep affection for Notre Dame, its officials, and the devoted community so basically and essentially identified with it. But it was no easy matter to decide at once on giving up my satisfactory lucra­tive and growing law practice, not to mention suggestions of certain friend­ly politicians as to a place on the bench. On reflection, however, I found no difficulty in dismissing such thoughts as unworthily selfish. I had not been so long in the practice as to feel deeply rooted in it. I was single, though not unconscious of the obligation of cherished family ties. 
Early in the new year, in January, 1883, I came to Notre Dame and entered on the discharge of my new duties. The start was from the very bottom. There was no law room, no law librarj', not even a single law­book. As there waa but one regular law student, however, my own room served adequately for recitation uses, and the few law books brought with me from Chicago answered as a library. 
As students increased in number a class room became indispensable, and one was set apart for them in the main building. It served also as library. The Supreme Court do­nated to us on recommendation of Judge E. P. Hammond almost a com­plete set of its Reports, and the law library was thus founded. 

High standing at the bar implies strenuous and protracted years of work. A law school, no matter how conspicuous or famous, can do but little more than lay the foundation for a successful professional career. A lawyer who would keep up or at­tain to acknowledged leadership in the profession must work diligently, hopefully and even aggi-essively through all the years of his active life. He may, however, find a certain feeling of solace in the fact that the judges of the highest courts, not ex­cepting the justices of the United States Supreme Court, are obliged to work as arduously and assiduously as he himself must work in settling, and adjusting, and sohing the legal issues and difficult problems frequently be­fore them. They often differ among themselves on the law points involved in the cases v/ith which they have to deal as radically and uncompromis­ingly as do he and his comparatively obscure professional brethren. 
Such considerations emphasize the sense of responsibility that should be felt and acknowledged by the con­scientious teacher. . . . The law had not undertaken at that time to change and set forward the dial of the sun or the hours of labor, but I recall distinctly a frequently recurring wish that three or four hours could be ?dded severally to the week days, so that the boys might have daily more hours for study and possibly one or two additional recitations. It was somewhat vexatious, I admit, to re­alize that this is an unattainable mir­acle. But I was eager to do, and longed for the time to accomplish, far more than it was possible to achieve in the circumscribed time at my disposal. From different angles I cogitated ways and means to ex­
tend the work, and fixed upon as helpful monthly written theses of wide range and semi-weekly batches of written answers to some of the more esearching and difficult questions pre­viously dictated to the class. The fa­vored policy was to interest and en­courage the student, for this would ser\-e largely to eliminate from his work the element of compulsion. I considered also that if the fundamen­
4iSiM 
HoYNES COLLEGE OF LAW 
Now the Architecture Building • 

tal principles of the law could be con­cisely and accurately inculcated, so as to arouse the interest and stimu-• late the reasoning powers to salutary emulation a dependable foundation would be laid upon which the student himself could build securely, sub­stantially and successfully. A solid foundation was viewed as of prime impoi-tance, for upon such only could he build an enduring superstructure. Once he becomes thoroughly inter­ested and imbued with the spirit and morale of study the battle is half won. Entertaining such opinions, it was quite in order to give more atten­tion to indoctrinating fundamental principles as a basis study than is customary in the average methods of law teaching. It was assumed that on learning with clear insight and accur­acy the fundamental principles of law and equity, acquiring at the same time facility in analyzing, combining and applying them, they may serve as a key in solving almost any legal problem not dependent essentially upon statute.. It was exemplified that basic principles thus understood could relevantly and decisively be applied to controverted facts in litigation, legally settling the issue, in a manner suggestive of our use of the letters of the alphabet in spelling for eye or ear the numberless words of our language, or our use of the simple numbers of the arithmetic in solving all sorts of account problems, no mat­ter how varied their forms and rami­fications. 
The law is thus viewed as a science 

rather than as a mere art, which re­quires hardly more than that a prec­edent shall be found analogous to the searcher's side of the issue in contro­versy. Science seeks to convince the mind; art, to dominate the eye. Sci­ence implies principle and argument as basic legal weapons; art seeks an adjudicated case in point, and rests contentedly on showing its analogies to the favored side of the question at issue. 
Though formerly we had but a small library—too small and circum­scribed in standard authorities to sup­ply requisite citations for the lec­tures then prepared, so that they might be published in book form, yet the students of those days acquitted themselves very creditably in their work. In fact, I never heard of any of their number regarded as at all capable and diligent who failed to pass triumphantly in examinations for admission to the bar, although repre­sentative graduates of even the most noted law schools failed vexatiously in the same impartial though search­ing tests. 
In conclusion, let me say to every diligent and aspiring student that he must depend chiefly upon his own en­deavors for success. No law school can do more than supply a fair equip­ment for starting. It does well if it succeeds in establishing a sound and durable foundation and directing and guiding with wise deliberation the study, thought, energj' and ambition of the student. He may be confident that such foundation, broad and deep, can be laid here, and that everything practicable will be done to equip and start him on the road to capability, efficiency and success. But he must cooperate and work hard. The future is in his own hands. He is the ar­chitect of his own fortune. What was said on this vital subject in the humble and struggling law school of the past is equally true now in this attractive building, these beautiful recitation arid lecture rooms, this spacious library, this amply equipped College of Law. It offers opportuni­
.ties surpassing those of the modest and unassuming Law Department of the past, but neverthless it will de­pend largely upon the student him­self to achieve success and creditable rank in the profession. As the lines say: 
"One ship drives east, another west 
With the self-same winds that blow; 'Tis the set of the sails. And not the gales, 
Which decides the way to go. 

"Like the winds of the sea are the ways of fate, 
As we voyage along through life; 'Tis the will of the soul, That decides its goal. 
And not the calm or the strife." 

NOTRE DAME LAWYERS 
ALABAMA ALASKA ARIZONA 

PHOENIX 
Hilkcrt. Emile John, LL.B., '22: 522 Luhrs BIdg. 

TUCSON 
Barry, James D., A.B.. '97; Consolidated Bank Btdg. 
ARKANSAS CALIFORNIA 

AKAHEIM Hayes. Frank H.. LL.B.. '14: Bank of America Btdg. Route 1, El Cajon. (res.) 
LONG BEACH 
Mulholland, Emmctt Paul. LL.B.. "16: 1016 Security BIdg. 

LOS ANGELES Barry, Francis Joseph, A.B., '03; 448 S. Hill St.. Rm. 1212. 
CosKTOve. Torrence B.. LL.B., '06: 2515 N. Vermont Ave. 
Cusack. William J.. LL.B.. '14: 300 Garfield BIdg. 
Denny, Harry E., LL.B.. '22: 642 Cloverdalc. Villa Roma, Apt. 3. 
Dockweiler. Hcnrj- I., A.B., '12; 1035 I. N. Van Nuys BIdg.: 23215 Figueroa St. (res.) 
Dockweiler, Henry I., A.B., '12; 1035 I. N. Van Nuys BIdg.: 23215 Figueroa St. (res.) 
Hearn. Thomas H., LIi.B.. '15; 1120 Pacific Finance BIdg. 
McGarry. Michael J., LL.B., '04 : 430 Higgins BIdg.: 2123 Estrella Ave. (res.) 
McKeon. Judie Thomas J., LL.B., '94; 617 W. 41st St. 
Mott, John G., LL.B.. "95. Litt.B.. '9S: 1215 Citircns Bank BIdg.: 2629 Portland St. (res.) 
Savay, Norliert J., LL.B., "00: 3759 W. 27th St. 
Scott. Judge A. A.. LL.B.. '22; 330 N. Broadway: 2595 Sth St.. (res.) 
Suttner. Joseph M.. LL.B., '19: 200 Associated Realty BIdg. 
Ward. Leo B.. LL.B., '20: 1002 Black Bids.. 4421 Willowbrook Ave. (res.) 

OAKLAND 
Abrott. B. J.. LL.B.. '27: Latham Square BIdg. 2139 Roosevelt St., Berkeley, (res.) 

REDWOOD CITY 
Sullivan, Daniel E., LL.B.. '14: Court House: Box 217, R.F.D., Melno Park, (res.) 

SAN FRANCISCO 
Cu'linan. Eustace, A.B., *95: Mills Tower Sutter 0920 3433 21st St. (res.) 
Cullinan, Eustace, Jr., A.B.. '25: Mills Tower Douglas 2822 3086 Jackson St. (res.) 
Sheridan. Thomas J., A.B., '86: 2,54 Russ Bids. Garfield 6755 2314 Mitchell St., Oakland, (res.) 
Sullivan. Robert P.. A.B., '33: 718 Humbolt Bank BIdg.: 102 Walnut St. (res.) 
COLORADO 


DENVER Dick. Robert A., A.B., '29: 1300 Telephone BIdg. Main 5171 1655 Glencoe St, (res.) Franklin 6353 
Haskell. Charles A.. LL.B.. '29: 720 Majestic B!dg.: Keystone 8889 3109 Elizabeth St. (res.) York 1S02-W 
Myers. Joseph A. Symes BIdg.: Keystone 5186 1200 E. Third Ave. (res.) Spruce 8009 
Moran. John R.. LL.B.. "25 : Continental Oil Co. 
CONNECTICUT 

BRIDGEPORT Cullinan. John T.. A.B.. '28: First National Bank BIdg.: 116 Elmwood Place (res.) 
Murphy. James E., LL.B.. '22: 1115 Main St., 315 W. Morgan Ave. (res.) 

HARTFORD Curry. James A., LL.B.. *14: 647 Main St.: 255 Laurel St. (res.) 
Curry, Thomas B.. LL.B.. '14: 647 Main St.: 28 Kenyon St. (res.) 

STAMFORD 
DufTy. Arthur R., LL.B.. '33: 205 Cove Road (res.) 
DELAWARE 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

WASHINGTON Ans'erry. Judge Timothy T.. LL.B.. "93: 1317 "F" St.. N.W.: N.i. 2153 1901 Wyoming Ave.. N.W. (res.) 
Hayes, James D.. LL.B., '17: Arlington BIdg.. Rm. 924: Na. 6740 4612 Morgan Drive, Chevy Chase. Md. (res.) 

Mclnerncy. Wilbert. '23-'24 : 729 15th St., N.W.: Na. 3060 621 Gallatin St.. N. W. (res.) 
Markey. Thomas S.. A.B.. '20: 1032 Shoreham BIdg.: Na. 1960 1722 Conn. Ave. (res.) 
Thode. Edward K.. A.B.. '24 : 1803 Biltmore St.. N.W. (res.) 
FLORIDA MiAm 
Giblin. Vincent C, LL.B.. '; 409 N.E. 31th St. 
GEORGIA IDAHO ILLINOIS 

AURORA Feldott. Joseph J.. LL.B.. 'IS: 217-223 Mercantile Block 
Milroy. Robert A., LL.B.. '12: Mercantile Block: 300 S. 4th St., (res.) 
Ruddy. Clarence J., LL.B,, '27; 57 Fox St. 
BELVIDERE 
O'Sullivan, Albert S., LL.B., '18: 101 Logan Ave. 

CALUMET CIXY 
Wallace. John J., A.B., '27: 704 Wentworth Ave. 

CARLINVILLE 
Seyfrit, Michael F., LL.B., '23; Peebles BIdg. 

CHICAGO Alexander, Arnold, os. *24: 33 N. LaSalle St.; 2035 E. 73rd St. 
Allen. William S., LL.B., '21; 77 W. Washington St. Sta 4223 5357 Lakewood Ave. (res.) Rav. 1832 
Bachrach, Benjamin C , A.B.. 1545 S. State St. 2600 S. California (res.) 
Bailey, Joseph A., LL.B., '26; 160 N. LaSalle St. Cen. 0330 4750 Sheridan Road. Lon. 8464 

Barry. Norman C , LL.B., '21 : 77 W. Washington St., 1C21: 139 N. Homan Ave. Nev. 1694 
Biedka. Harry M.. A.B., '27: 160 N. LaSalle St.: Dea. 3292 4310 Milwaukee Ave. Kil. 3663 
Bohling. Nicholas J.. A.B.. '31: 160 N. LaSalle St.; Dea 7550 8430 Oglesby Ave. Sag. 0683 
Bossingham, ^VllIiara J., LL.B.. '25: 11 S. LaSalle St.: 408 Buell St.. Joliet. (res.) 
Breen. Edwin T., os. '18; 38 S. Dearborn St.: Ran. 2744 6449 N. Greenview Ave. Bri. 6272 
Buckley. Edwin J., LL.B., '24: 100 N. LaSalle St.: Cen. 8386 1040 Catalpa Ave. 
Carey, Robert F.. LL.B.. '26: 111 W. Washington St. Ran. 6144 
Casey, Edwi>rd B., LL.B.. '24; 6914 N. Sheridan Rd. (res.) Bri. 8782 
Clemens, C. L. V.. LL.B.. '11; 88813 Commercial Ave.: S-\g. 3551 7458 S. Yates Ave. (res.) Sag. 1487 
Conaghan. P»ul R . Ph.B., '20; 208 S. LaSalle St.. 1768: Sta. 0301 210 E. Pearson (res.) Sup. 8789 
Cooke. John Jos.. LL.B.. '94: 236 N. Cl^rk; St-^. 0439 653 Balmont Ave. (res.) Wei. 9400 
Costello. John W.. LL.B., '12; 140 N. Dearborn St.: 
Cen. 4108 1618 Walnut Ave.. Wlmette 

Crane, Elmer M., LL.B., '34: 7 S. Dearborn St. 
Crowlev. Jerome J., os. '98: 100 W. Monroe St.: 
Ran. 2632 742 W. Junior Terrace (res.) Gra. 5601 

Cullen. M'ttbew J., I,L.B.. '29: IGO N. LiS.alle St, 635: Cen. 3894 2508 N. Spaulding Ave. Bel. 8418 
Cunningham, James V., LL.B.. 8617 S. Paulina S t 
Ced 9019 

Daily. William L.. LL.B., '28; 1316 North Shore Ave. (res.) Hoi 6836 
Daly. Hugh J.. LL.B.. '12: 1407 Marquette BIdg.; 346 E. 2Gth St 
Dempsey, John T.. os. '19-21: IGO N. LaSalle St.: Cen. 2600 2532 N. Richmond. Spa. 6996 
Dinnen, William F.. LL.B.. '02; 1118 New Post Office BIdg. 
Dixon, Jerome F.. LL.B., '22: 231 S. IdSalle SL, Rm. 1210.  Gen. 5403  Lyons, John J., LL.B.. '29; 3401 S. Michigan Ave.; 709 N. Austin Blvd.  Gal. 5000 Man 7929 •  Quinlan, Richard D., LL.B., '28; 39 S. LaSalle S t  
Donovan, Thomas C , LL.6., '24; 125 W. Madison: Fra. 2880 7351 N. Scely Ave. (res.) Sos. 2G37  McCabe. I^omas S.. LL.B., '22; 11 S. LaSalle St : 1448 W. Rascher Ave.  Cen. 8235 Sun. 5150  Bomolds, Harold P., LL.B., '29: 300 W. Adams St , 919: 3643 S. Hamilton Ave.  
Dortan, John W., A.B., '29: 1421 W. Van Burcn. Hay. 0900 Downs, Francis J., I,Ij.B., '31: 29 S. LaSalle St.: Ran. 0666 121 Wesley Ave., Oak Paric Drennan, William J., os. '21-23: 30 N. LaSalle St ; Fra. 1177 7139 S. Bennett (res.) But. 5185 Farley, Joseph H., LL.B., '22; 1 N. LaSalle St. Cen. 1505 Figel, Edward L., LL.B., '11: 175 W. Jaclcson Blvd.; 7719 Clyde Ave. (res.) Sou. 6658 Finnigfan. Bernard M.. LIj.B., 9226 9. Commercial: Sae. 5300  McClory, Raymond L.. LI^B., '27; 1 LaSalle St. 4000. Cen. 7722 McCracken, David R, A.B., '28: 127 N. Dearborn: Sta. 4891 1215 Park Ave., River Forest McCurrie, Francis T., LL.B., '27; 100 W. Monroe: Ran. 1870 8219 S. Sangman. Vin. 0777 McGinn, Frank P., os. '89; 134 N. LaSalle. Cen. 6231 . 6913 N. Lakewood Ave. Reg. 2153 McGinnis, Joseph C, LL.B., '19; 1 N. LaSalle St ; Cen. 9650 1546 Jonquil S t  Riley, Thomas H., Prep. '08: 111 W. Washington S t Bonan, James A., A.B., '26; 127 N. Dearborn St : Ran. 160S 1734 R 71st Place. Pla. 8778 Sage, L. M., os. '18: 231 S. LaSalle S t S t George, Maximilian J., LL.B., '08: 29 S. LaSalle St : Ran. 3005 2816 Wilson Ave. Ind. 1392 Shaugnessy, Thomrs J., B.S., '15; 105 S. LaSalle St ; Cen. 8589 6852 S. Shore Drive. Dor. 7711 Spuller, Laurence W., J. D., '24; 111 W. Washington St : Fra. 1270 6715 N. Maplewood Ave. Rog. 3947  
9239 S. Merrill Ave. (res.) 8372 Fitzsimroons, Franlc T., os. '19-20; 111 W. Monroe St.: Ran. 1025  McGoorty. John P., Jr.. Ph.B., '24: 111 W. Washington St : Fra. 1234 7321 S. Merrill Ave. But 7321  Steers, Fred L., LL.B., '11: 1666 First Nafl. Bank Bldg.9155 S. Hoyne S t  Cen. 5554  Bev. 2110  
6514 N. Bosworth Ave. Giltinon, John M., A.B., '29; S502 S. Tlnion Ave.Girten. Michael F., El. '14; 30 N. Michisan Ave., 822;5827 Princeton.Griffin, Richard A., LL.B., '24: 7843 S. Golfa-x Bri 0954  Ene. 0548  Cen. 4000  Wen. 3152  Kee. 2320  McGuirc, Edward P., LL.B., '28; 1 N. LaSalle S t Cen. 7574 McGuire, Maurice G., os. '19-21; 100 N. LaSalle S t Cen. 1661 3309 W. Washington Blvd. Ked. 3237 McKeown, Edward P., A.B., '28: 30 N. LaSalle St : Sta. 1760 7306 S. Lowe Ave. Tri. 6276  Stephan, John B.. Ph.B. Cora., '23: 32 W. Randolph: 1623 W. Leiand Ave. Edg. 5671 Sullivan, Joseph J., LittB., '01, LL.B., '02: 29 S. LaSalle St : Dea. 7040 7325 S. Chappel Ave. Mid. 3793 Sullivan. Joseph S., LL.B., '29; 1 N. LaSalle St , 2401: Sta. 9422 7951 Eberhart S t Tri. 1954  
Harvey, Daniel J., LL-B., '27; 2813 Calumet Ave.;205 W. Wacker (res.)  Vic 7922  Dea. 3481  McKcever, Francis H., LittB., '03 LL.B. '04; 10" S. " " " LaSalle~ St ; "Sta.  4760 4413 N. Paulina I 2057 Lon :  Toohey, Joseph L., A.B., '02: 6515 N. Clark S t  Rog. 0584  
Hassenauer, Leo J., LL.B., '20; TJ. S. Attorney's Office, Court House; 2221 Kidee Blvd., Evanston. Hennes, Bernard R., LL.B., '24: 127 N. Dearborn St.; 5013 Kenmore Ave. (res.) Henry, William C, Litt.B., '16; 9113 S. Commercial Ave.; Sas. 2422 8924 S. Blackstone Ave. Sou. 1197 Hilliard. Raymond M. os.; 7209 Bennett. Mid. 9843 Hines, Eucene M., LL.B., '23; 135 S. LaSalle St.: Ran. 7070 2472 W. Estes Ave. Hoi. 2461  McKenna. Gerald P. OS. '24; 38 S. Dearborn St^: Ran. 4291 1444 Rascher Ave. Sun. 8301 McLaughlin. Edward J., LL.B., '27: 230 S. Clark St ; Cen. 4384 7726 S. Jeffrey Ave. Sou. 1668 McNeills, John F., LL.B., '27: 9207 Commercial Ave; 5754 Blackstone Ave. (res.) McNicholas, James F., LL.B., '25; 38 S. Dearborn St : Sta. 8963 7608 Phillips Ave. Reg. 0504 Milroy, William J., LL.B., '13: 105 W. Adams St : Fra. 5022 1454 E. Marquette Rd. Mid. 9164  Vurpillat Francis J., LL.B., '91, LittB., '92; Corporation Counsel, City Hall White, James E., LL.B., '25; 111 W. Washington St : Cen. 2424 4934 Jackson Blvd. Man. 0195 Whitty, Elmer J., os. '10-11: 910 S. Michigan Ave.: 6629 Kenwood Ave. Dor. 8930 Wolski, Andrew H., LL.B.. '2S 2044 W. 35th St : Laf. 3312 4515 S. T\irner Ave. Laf. 3843 YouniT- James F., LL.B., '23: 64 W. Randolph: Fra. 3199 633 Waveland Ave. Wei. 1313  
Hollywood, Thomas C, OS. '09-11; 160 K. LaSalle St.: Cen. 0330 6711 N. Greenview Ave. She. 4122 Hughes, Arthur J., Ph.B., '11, LL.B., '17; 332 S. Michigan Ave., 1117: 527 Washincton Ave., Wilmette. Hummer, John S., LL.B., '90. LittB., '91; 69 W. Washington St.: Cen. 0590 5555 Sheridan Rd. Lon. 8195  Mitchell, Oement C, LL.B., '02: 110 S. Dearborn St , Box 3 : Fra. 814 Linden Avenue. Mulhollnnd. Clement B., LL.B., '20: 1 N. LaSalle St ; Cen. 9650 9111 S. Laflin. Ced. 1494 Murtaugh, James F., LL.B., '22: 38 S. Dearborn St, 1655; Evanshire Hotel, Evanston.  CICERO Quigley, Thomas D., LL.B.. '12: 2116 49th Court (res.) CRYSTAL LAKE Kelley, Walter F., LL.B., "31: Railroad S t Knox, Vernon J.. A.B., '31;  
Hurley, Earle C. LL.B., '24: 105 W. Adams St.1101 Pratt Blvd.  Fra. 5022  Bri. 3875  O'Brien, William W., LL.B., '00: 77 W. Washington Ave. Dea  Crystal Lake. DIXON  
Hurley, Francis J., LL.B., 'IS; 4750 Sheridan; Lon. 8464 951 Foster Ave. (res.) Sun. 6486 Hurley, Ira W., LL.B., '14; Foreman Trust & Savings Bank; 33 N. LaSalle St. Irmiser, Robert, LL.B., '27: 111 W. Washington St.: Cen. 7129 5441 S. Eastview Pk. (res.) Mid. 2292 Jacob. William S., Ph.B.Com., '23: 69 W. Washington S t Ran. Johnson, Thomas J., Jr., LL.B., '29: 160 N. LaSalle St : Sta. 4999  O'Connell, Judge John F., LL.B., '13; 647 County BIdg. O'Donnell, Paul M., os. '02: 1 N. LaSalle S t Ran. 3668 O'Grady, George J., LL.B., '23: 310 S. Michigan Ave.: Wab. • 1058 Columbia Ave. Bri. : O'Hara, James W.. LL.B., '13: 1311 Union Trust Bldg.; 1033 Loyola Ave, Oshe, Marcellus. LL.B., '12; 60 W. Washington St : 6756 Oglesby Ave. Mid 5961  Bracken, Robert LL.B., 'OS; 120 R First St : Polo, DI. (res.) Dixon, Sherwood. LL.B., '20: 120 R First St : 519 N. Hennepin Ave. Jones. R. Gerald. LL.B.. '22; R Second St ; 112 Crawford Ave. Judge. Joseph, A. B., '32. LL.B.. '34 120 R First St ; 216 R 7th S t  
2855 N. Parkside. Ber. 1091 Kennedy, James F., LL.B., '94, LL.B., •95: 155 N. Clark S t Cen. 0966  O'TooIe, Edward F., LL.B.. 10 S. LaSalle St ; 5959 Kenmore Ave.  9050  EAST MOLINE King. Francis C . LL.B., '19: State Bank Bldg.: State's Attorney.  
Kiley, Roger J.. LL.B., '23; 111 W. Washington S t  5464 Phelan, Richard L., A.B., '28:  69 W. Wabash St : 3644 Pine Grove Ave.  1838  EAST ST. LOUIS  
Kolski. Alvin G., LL.B., '31; 48 Wells St : 2118 Pierce A\-e. Lamey, Edwin J., LL.B., '14; 5718 N. Richmond (res.) :  Dea. 8756Hum. 41190091  Powers. Leo James, LL.B., '25;  1263 231 S. LaSalle S t Quinlan, John M., A.B., '04:  10211 S. Hoyne Ave.  6862 Bev. 5419  McGIynn, Daniel F., Jr., LL.B., 'IS; 120 N. Main S t • McGlynn, Joseph B., LL.B., '12: 120 N. Main S t 741 Port Place  

McGlynn, Robert K., LL-B., '23: 120 N. Main St.: 748 Alhambra Court. 
Funk. Paul G., LL.B., '24; Courier-News Bids.; 331 Rivers Bluff Road. 
McCarthy, Frank A., I.L.B., '06; 802 Elgin Toner. 
McCarthy, John V.; LittB., '14. LL.B., '14: 802 Elgin Tower 653 Douglas Ave. 
McNerney, Lawrence M., LL.B.. '06: Courier-News BIdt;.; 392 Raymond S t 

Tobin, Elmer C. S.B.E.. '15. LL.B., '17: 505 Professional Bide.; 301 Vincent St. 
JOUET Wise, Donald F., A.B.. '33, LL.B.. "35; 110 Pleasant St. 
KEWANEE 
Welch, Thomas J., LL.B., '05: Savings Bank Bldg.; 606 McKinley Ave. (res.) 
LAKE FOREST 
Fritz, William H , LL.B., '21: 213 Anderson Bldg.; 324 Woodine Place (res.) 
LA SALLE Hurley. James D., LL.6., '24: 713 First St. 
MENDOTA Dubbs, James H., A.B.. '32, LL.B., '34; 409 S. 13th Ave. 
Dubbs. John W., LL.B., '03; 409 S. 13th Ave. 
Madden, Ralph C, LL.B., '06; Fabcr Bldg.; 618 Monroe St. (res.) 
MOLINE 
Meersman, Peter J., LL.B., '13; State Trust Bldg.; 2134 13th St., (res.) 
Sollo, Charles F., LL.B.. '25: Peoples Bank Bldg.; 2303 11th St. (res.) 
MORRIS Dunn, Thomas B., B.C.S., 
OTTAWA 
Carr, Robert C, Ph.B., '16, A.M. '17; Central Life Bldg.: 723 Chapel St. (res.) 
Mohan, Elmer J.. LL.B.. '17; Court House 206 LaSalle St, Streator (res.) 
O'Meara, Thomas J.. LL.B., 'IS: 406-07 Moloney Bldg.; 715 Chapel S t (res.) 
PEORIA Cassidy, John E., LL.B., '17; 904 Peoria Life Bldg. 
Cavanaugh, Leo Francis, LL.B., '24; 907-10 Jefferson Bldg. 
Sprenger, George Wm., LL.B., '08; Jefferson Bldg.; 1007 Kno.xville Ave. (res.) 
PONTIAC Hcrr, Jesse J.. Ph.B., '13; Rathburn Bldg.: 919 R Washington St. (res.) 
ROBINSON 
Bradbury, J. Stanley, LL.B.. '23: Second National Bank Bldg. 
Bradbury, William K, LL.B.. '16: Second National Bank Bldg.: 120 Main St 

ROCHELLE O'Brien. George D., LL.B., '21; Fourth Ave. 728 Sixth St . (res.) 
ROCK ISLAND Herbert, Leo J., LL.B., '27: 608 Best Bldg. 
Meager, Edmund J., LL.B.. '21: 1S33 42nd S t 
Murphy. James P., LL.B., '99, LL.M., '00; 1250 2Ist Ave. 
Murphy. Hayes F., os. '24-27; Manufacturer's Trust Bldg.; 2203 30th S t (res.) 
SPRINGFIELD 
Bonjean, Roscoe C., os. '25-28; Myers Bldg.; 1907 S. Fifth S t (res.) 
Schllpf, Albert C. LL.B., '16: First National Bank Bldg.; 1410 S. Lincoln S t (res.) 
STERLING 
Mee, Edward F., LL.B.. '14 : 506-510 Laurence Bldg. 
URBANA Halloran, Edward W., A.B., '30; 701 W. Washington S t 
WAUKEGAN Edwards. Erskine C, A.B., '32; 445 N. Genesee. 
Kirby. William T.. A.B., '32, LL.B., '34; 610 N. Sheridan Rd. 
Reirdon, Raymond J.. A.B., '30, LL.B., '33; 216 Burton Ave. 
WILMINGTON Hennebry. Hon. Michael F., LL.B.. '96. 
WOODSTOCK Carroll. William M., LL.B., '15: 345 Dacy St 
INDIANA 

ANDERSON O'Neill. Philip B., LL.B., '01, LL.M.. '02: 511-15 Union Bldg.: 
E. 13th S t (res.) 

BREMEN Carson Claude D.. LL.B., '26; 123 S. Center St. 
CRAWFOBDSVILLE Foley. Bernard B., Litt.B., '23, LL.B., '25. 
CROWN POINT Henry M, Albert, LL.B., '27; Crown Point. 
Maloncy, Charles P., LL.B., '16; 219 Pettibone Ave. 
Rohrbach, John M., LL.B., '23, M>A., '25; Lake County Title & Guaranty Co. 
Sherman, Wilton J., LL.B., '31: 338 S. East St 
DELPHI Hamling. John H., LL.B., '25. 
EAST CHICAGO Carroll. Hugh E., LL.B.. '16: 
U. S. National Bank Bldg. 4406 Magoun S t (res.) 

Travis, Allen R.. LL.B.. '26: 227 Calumet Bldg. 
ELKHART Brown. Francis K, A.B., '31, LL.B., '33; 126 Water St • 
Chester, Willard H., os. '11; 1601 E. Jackson Bldg. 
DeDario, Anthony J., LL.B., '29: 725 Harrison: 
Dalton, William D., LL.B., '00; 203»4 S. Main S t 
Gildea, Austin C, LL.B. '30; Equity Bldg. 
Happer, Thomas V., LL.B., '29: Monger Bldg. 
Proctor. Robert E., LL.B., '04; 201 Monger Bldg.; 417 Prospect (res.) 
Sievers, Alex F., LL.B., '27; 1906 K Jackson St. 
Woodford, Leon, el. '21: Monger Bldg. 
Ziffrin. Herman A., LL.B., '33: 216 Equity Bldg. 
FORT WAYNE 
Corbett, Frank E., A.B.. '30: 1125 Lincoln Bank Tower: Anthony 2124 2801 Lillie S t Harrison 24902 
Eggeman. Hon. John W.. LL.B.. '00: 1201 Old First Bank Bldg.: Anthony 8455 522 Meyer Ave. Harrison 49143 
Eggeman, Robert F., LL,B.. '30: 1201 Old First Bank Bldg.: Anthony 8455 522 Meyer Ave. Harrison 49143 
Gordon. Robert K., LL.B., '25: 604 Peoples Trust Bids.: Anthony 3373 459 Violet Court Harrison 78945 
Hasley. Henry, A.B., '28: 300 Peoples Trust Bldg.; Anthony 3373 1919 Kenwood Ave. Anthony 59934 
Hayes, C. Byron. LL.B.. '13: 917 Citizens Trust Bldg.; Anthony 1102 1314 W. Washington Blvd. Anthony 45313 
Hogan, Francis M.. LL.B., '14; 409 Dime Bank Bldg.; Anthony 3411 Catholic Community Center Anthony 9151 
Hogan. Harry G.. LL.B., '04; 131 E. Wayne St.: Anthony 0131 1221 ,W. Rudisill Blvd. Harrison 16113 
Miller. Arthur W.. A.B.. '28: Lincoln National Bank; Anthony 8121 141216 O.xford S t Harrison 56284 
Mcylan, Thomas H., LL.B., '25; 1205 Lincoln Bank Tower; Eistbrook 1220 215 K Lewis S t Anthony 77165 
Rohyans. Emmett A.. LL.B., '20: 312 Cal-Wayne Bldg.; Anthony 1497 2906 Hoagland Ave. Harrison 56244 
Schoppman, Fred D.; LL.B., '30; 914 Citizens Trust Bldg.; Anthony 7334 2514 Kensington Blvd. Anthony 69043 
Torborg, Martin P., A.B., '32. LL.B., '34: 1201 Old First Bank Bldg.; Anthony 8455 Catholic Community Ctenter. Anthony 9151 
•Williams, John E., A.B., '31; 617 Citizens Trust Bldg.; Anthony 4130 336 Field S t Anthony 19812 
FRANKFORT Gruber. Earl F., LL.B., '05: 22 Dinwiddle Bldg.; 455 E. Clinton S t (res.) 
GARY Stanton. David P., LL.B., '26: 708 Broadway; 3712 Jackson S t (res.) 
Stanton, John N. LL.B., '24: 1071 Broadway; li s E. 43rd S t (res.) 
HAMMOND Brown, M. Clyde, LL.B.. '25: Citizens National Bank Bldg. 
Clark, James J.. I.L.B., '23: Lloj-d Bids. 
Galvin, Frank J., LL.B., '23: First Trust Bldg. 
Galvin, Timothy P., Pii.B., '16: First Trust Bldg. 21 Wildwood Koad (res.) 
Lynch. Daniel D., LI..B.. '23: 70S Uojd Bide. 
Sw-yjrert. Luther M., LL.B., '27; 305 Rirsch Bide. 
Trails. William L., LL.B., '27: 803 Lloyd BldK. 
Walters, J. Bryan. LL.B., '25: Citizens National Bank Bide. 
Young, Raymond B., LL.B., '30: 5252 Hohman Ave. 
HARTFORD CITIT Emshwiller, James, os. '24; 402 High St. 
INDLtNAPOUS Beery. Hon. James E., LL.B., '10: 1250 Consolidated Bldg.: Riley 3942 N. Delaware St. 
Fansler, Hon Michael, os. '05: State House: 1409 N. New Jersey St. (res.) 
Hubbard, Arthur L., os. '30: c/o Evans & Hebel 
Krieg, William H., A.B.. '29: 920 Circle Toner: Ri. 741 Garrollton CourL 
Harcfaino. Elmer, os. '27: State House 26 E. 14th St. (res.) 
McNamara, Joseph P., LL.B., '29: State House Ri. Attorney General's OHice. 
McShane, John J., Ph.B.. '15: 701 Fidelity Trust Bldg. Li. 5156 College Ave. 
Noll, rVancis J., A.B., 'SI: 1108 Merchants Bank Bldg. 4550 Guildford Ave, 
O'Connor, Leo F.. os. '25: Fidelity Trust Bldg.: 840 S. Meridian St. 
Reddington. Michael B., A.B., '26: Indiana "Trust Bldg. Li. 414 W. South St. 
Rocap, John T., A.B., '30; 129 E. Market St. Bldg.: Li. 5427 Washington Blvd. 
Sexton, Joseph, A.B., '25, LL.B., '26: Fidelity Trust Bldg.: 420 Emerson Ave., N. 
Smith, Paul J., LL.B., '16; Peoples State Bank Bldg.; 3942 N. Delaware St. 
Stanton. Walter, LL,B., '30: 130 E. Washington St. 
LAFAYETTE Mohlman, Robert J., LL.B., '28; 1011 S. 9th St. 
Kicks. Michael T., A.B., '28: 219 N. 4th St 
Vaughan, Charles L., LL.B., '14: 703 Lafayette Life Bldg.: 1001 Central St. 
Vaughan, Vincent D., LL.B., '17: 703 Lafayette Life Bldg.: 639 Alabama St. 
LAPOBTE 
Conboy, Frank J., LL.B., '04: 810% Lincolnway: GSO 1312 Michigan Ave. (res.) 1483 
Duke, Norman E.. A.B.. '34. LL.B.. '35: 202 First National Bank Bldg. 192 304 Niles St. 1381-K Roule, Arthur L., LL.B., '30: 
A. P. Andrew Bldg.: 218 1805 Indiana Ave. 1369 
Smith. Alban M., A.B., '27, LL.B., '29: 410 First National Bank Bldg. 1022 210 "(3" St. 539 
LOGANSPORT 
Tubcrty, John H., LL.B., '31: National Bank Bldg.; 608 12th St. 
jnCHIGAN CITY Glasscott, Lorenzo A., LL.B., 'IS Citizens Bank Bldg.: 223 W. 10th St. 
Glasscott, Robert E., LL.B., '24; Citizens Bank Bldg.; 223 W. 10th St. 
Kenefick, Matthew J., Ph.B., '07: Box 259 
Storen, Mark, LL.B., '22: First National Bank Bldg.: 507 Vail St 

SnSHAWAKA Davis, Charles, LL.B., '27: 8 Engledrum Bldg.: 5-0560 1313 Mishawaka Ave. 
Doyle, Albert L.. LL.B., '27; City Judge: 5-0425W 1213 Prospect Drive. 
Fcig, Ralph S., LL.a, '07: First National Bank Bldg.; 5-2400 707 Lincoln Way East , 
Freed, Vernon J., LL.B., '31; 202y. N. Main St ; 5-0235 619 Union S t 
Holderman, Harold W., B.C.S., '24: 922 W. Grove S t 
LaCava, Peter M., LL.B., '26: Box 19;. 
Schindler, John W.. LL.B., '09: 112 Lincolnway E. .5-1162 810 Lincolnway E. (res.) 
Van Tilbury. Leo. LL.B., '24; 202^6 N. Main St ; 5-0235 627 N. Wenger. 

MUNCIE Cannon. IThomas A., LL.B., '£ 401-2 Wysor Bldg.: 601 W. Seventh S t (res.) 
Halligan. James W., LL.B., ' 401-2 Wysor Bids.; 914 E. Jackson S t 
Watson, Fred E., LL.B., '25; 318-20 Wysor Bldg.; 601 W. Main St 
PENNVILLE Brown, Francis W.. A.B., '31, LL.B., '33. 
RICHSIOND Kelley, William H.. Jr., LL.B., '18: 205 Second National Bank Bldg.; 430 Kinsey S t 
SOUTH BEND 
Beamer, George N., LL.B., '29; 
J. M. S. Bldg.: 3-2189 545 Altgeld S t 
BonDurant, Robert E., LL.B., '34 ; I.O.O.P. Bldg.: 3-1197 312 Parkovash 
Butler, Paul M., LL.B., '27; LO.O.F. Bldg.; 3-1197 112 S. Notre Dame Ave. 
Chapleau. Louis C LL.B., '30; Union TVust Bldg.: 3-1595 306 LaMonte Terrace 
Clements, Walter L., A.B.. '14. AM., 'in: Associates Bldg.; LL.B.. '16: 3-8281 623 Park Ave. 
Cook, Leo L., LL.B.. "18: I.O.OJ. Bide. 3-4757 333 Tonti Ave. 
Coughlin. Francis E., LL.B., '21; I.O.OJ. Bldg.: 4-4411 S17 Corby Blvd. 
Dittoe, Francis, A.B., '31, LL.B., '33; 223 W. Washington St : 613 Laporte Ave. 
Doran, M. Edward, LL.B., '20: Union Trust Bldg.; 3-320O 1305 Palmer Blvd. 
Farabangh, G.A., A.B., '04, LL.B., '07: Union Trust Bldg.: -3-1595 1019 E. Colfax Ave. 
Parage, George, LL.B., '26: Citizens Bank Bldg. 3-3264 517 Edgewater Drive. 
Feiwell, Samuel, LL.B., '17: Citizens Bank Bldg.; 3-2362 112 W. Jefferson 
Peldman, Morris D., LL.B.. '25; Building and Loan Tower; 4-6241 1601 Marquette Blvd. 
Foley. Allen M., Ph.B.Com. '26; LL.B., '34: Union Trust Bldg.: 3-9712 1523 E. Madison Ave. 
Frantz, Albert T., LL.B., '29: Associates Bldg.: 3-5176 1234 Chalfant 
Friedman, Gary, LL.B., "31: J.M.S. Bldg.; 3-2S10 520 S. Scott S t 
Gilbert. Jacob H., Spec '28; 813 S. Michigan St : 4-3373 307 E. Pokagon. 
Grant Robert A., A.B., '28, LL.B., '30; Associates Bldg.; 3-5965 626 W. Colfax Ave. 
Harmon, Louis V.. LL.B., '19; J.M.S. Bldg.; 3-1260 318 Tonti. 
Hartzer, Nor. J., Ph.B.Com., '29 ; LL.B.. 31: I.O.O.F. Bldg.: 4-3232 843 Forest Ave. 
Hemphling, Jos. J., Ph.B.Com. '26; J.D., '29: 1.0.0J. Bldg.: 3-1266 4J3 W. Colfax Ave. 
Hemmn, John L., LL.B., *91; 115 S. Lafayette: 3-9531 971 Riverside Drive. 
Hogan, Joseph A., LL.B., *25; Associates Bldg.; 4-3121 228 S. Main St 
Hosinski, A. W., os. *15: 214 K Pokagon. 4-4576 
Houlihan, Patrick J., LL.B., '92: J.M.S. Bldg. 3-8811 
House, Fred R., os. '25; 228 Associates Bldg.; 3-3068 1413 Fox St 
Huguenard, Aaron, LL.B., '22: Associates Bldg.; 3-1866 I41I E. LaSalle S t 
Hunter, Edwin W.. Ph.B.. '19: CiUzens Bank Bldg.; 3-3264 1109 21st S t 
Jackson, Louis E.. LL.B., '34; 440 Associates Bids.; 3-1886 1810 Leer S t 
Jellison, Floyd 0., LL.B., '13: Sherland Bldg.: 4-5881 216 E. Indiana Ave. 
Jones, G. Francis, A.B., '29: LO.OJ". Bldg.: 3-1197 310 LaMonte Terrace. 
Jones, Vitus G., LittB., '02; LL.B., '03: 1.0.0J. Bide.: 3-1197 310 La Monte Terrace. 
Johannes AI W., os, '24; JM.S. Bldg. 4-2161 944 Riverside Drive. 

Keatinff. James E., A.B., "29: LL.B.. '31: Associates Bldt;.; 3-8281 1241 Sunnymede Ave.  Smith. Edward B., LL.B., '30: I.O.O.F. Bide.:1402 liinolnway West.   3-1266  SIOUX CITT HarrinEton, Gerald F., os. '28 Conitnental BIdr.: .  
Kopinski, Francis L., A.B., "31, LL.B.. '33: Dean Bids.; 3-3329 133 Fassnacht. Kovacs, Joseph J., LL.B., '16: Associates Bids. 4-5951  Sommerer, Edwin H., LL,B., '16; Court House Basement;925 B. Washinston St. Voor. William E.. LL.B.. '25: Associates Bids.:  4-7788  4-3121  1714 West St. Hulhall. John U . A.B., '32: 487 New Orpheum BId|f.; 1524 Grandview Blvd.  
1245 Diamond Ave.  1602 Cedar St.  

Knehl. Kussell C. I,L.B.. '29: Walz. Wilford V., LL.B.. '25: Citizens Bank Bids. Associates Bids.: 3-1602 
KANSAS RD 6. Bo:c 132. 3407 S. Michisan St. 
LEAVEMWORTB Dawes. Joseph L.. TX.B., '26: Manion, Clarence, J.D., '22: Wcisberser, Seymour, A.B., "26: L1,.B.. '28: 1113 N. Bshth St. 
Doran & MTtnion, Union Tr. Bids.; I.O.O.F. Bids.: 4-4411 
617 W. Washinston St. 125 W. Marion St. 
May. Arthur L., LL.B., '18, LL.M., '19: J.M..S. Bide : 3-2189 130 W. Foote St.  Wolanski, Walter M., os. '30; J.M.S. Bide.: 723 W. LaSalle SL  KENTUCKY  
McTnemy, J. Walter. LLB., '06: 555 Associates Bids.:1343 E. LaSalle St. Miller .Joseph P.. 1,I,.B.. '25: I.O.O.F. Bids.; •717 E. Madison St. Murphy. Lewis J.. A.B., J.D., '26; Associates Bids.:726 E. Corby Blvd.   3-1866  4-4411  4-1584  TERRE HAUTE Kearns. Raymond J.. LL.B.. '22: 602 Terre Haute Trust Bids.; 1601 S. Center St. VALPARAISO Rvan. Edward J.. LL.B.. '25; Kelly & Ryan Farmers State Bank  Bids.  CENTRAL aT Y Gish, Tole H., LL.B., '27; FRANKFORT Hanrahan. James P., LL.B., '27: County Attorney: R. R. 3. . LOUISVILLE  
Nic-r. Phil., Spec. '24: 317 LaMonte Terrace.  4-9484  VINCENNES  Flemins, Paul J.. A.B., '26: Federal Land Bank of Louisville.  
N-e-n'cc. -^n^l W.. 1,L.B. '23: Union Trust Bids.:  3-1S86  Miller. Lyle E., LL.B. '23: 12-13 LaPIante Bldle.  OWENSBORO  
428 Sunnyside Ave.  Clements, Fred J.. LL.B., '26:  
Nvikos, Joseph W.. I.L.B., '23: 555 Associates Bids.:314 E. Pokagon.   3-1S66  BURLINGTON  IOWA  225 Ann St. Oberst, Albert B., LL.B., '06: Masonic Bids.; 600 Allen St.  
Oltsch, Georce J., os. '09; 711 J. M. S. Bids.:  4-5711  Dailey. Edward W., A.B.. '33: First National Bank Bids.;  
324 N. Lafayette Blvd.  421 S. G.-irfield St.  
Om'tcht. Georce W.. os. '13; 250 Associates Bids.:436 N. Lafayette Blvd.   3-9317  Dailey, John A.. LL.B.. '27; First National Bank Bids.; 421 S. Garfield St.  HAMKIOND  LOUISIANA  
Payton. Eiiffene J., LL.B., '23: 133 N. Main St.:408 E. Pokrigon. Pe'-k, Hon. J. Elmer. LL.B., '12: Court House: 325 Lincoln Way East.   4-1138  CARROLL Meyers, Joseph J.. LL.B.. '04 : S^IinKer. Reynolds, Meyer & Cooney; 708 N. West St.  Blache, Joseph. LL.B., '24. NEW ORLEANS Burke, E. Bolan, A.B.. '28: Miceli Union Bids.: 2006 Canal St.  
Piser. Benjnmin C. B.C.S.. '24 : I.O.O.F., Bids.:1330 Altseld St.   4-3232  DAVENPORT Sv.ift, Richard B.. LL.B., '20: 704-05 Kahl Bids.:  Craven. Thomas V.. LL.B.. '14: District Attorney's Office: 4133 Palmyra St.  
Potts. J. CMiTord. LL.B.. '25: J.M.S. Bids.:1105 Hudson Ave.   3-2810  320 Forest Road. V.-nder Vennet, Georse W., LL.B., '32: 704 -05 Kahl Bide.:  de la Versne, Charle E., LL.B., '25: Maritime BIdg.: Story St.  
Rice. W. A.. LL.B., '21. LL.M.. '22: 2I6-1S W. Jefferson St.: 4-4953 429 Tonti.  1613 IGth Ave., Moline. 111. (res.) DES MOINES  Sporl. Cvprian A.. Jr.. LL.B.. '28: 608 Whitney BIdg.: 6550 Oakland Drive.  
Richwine. H-rry A., LL.B., '20. LL.M.. '22: 417 I.O.O.F. Bids.; 4-3232 1718 Lincolnway West. Rieder. Leo P.. A.B.. '23, LL.B.. '25: J.M.S. Bids.: 3-2810  Barron, Emmett, I., LL.B., *27: 1301 Equitable Bids. Hynes, John F., Litt. B.. '14, LL.B.. 'IS: 409 Valley Bank Bids.: 1058 33rd St.  SRREVEPORT Laskey. Donald C, LL.B., '27: Belchic & Laskey, Inc.  
808 E. Madison St. ISobertson. Harold J., LL.B,Union Trust Bids.:  '26:   4-4S17  Shaw, James C, LL.B., '22; 307 Eduitable BIdg.; Hotel Commodore.  MAINE MARYLAND  
1122 Foster St.  MASSACHUSETTS  
Sands. Georee W.. LL.B., '10: I.O.O.F. Bids.:224 W. Bartlett St.   4-3371  Wonderlin, F. Marcellus. LL.B., '29: 302 HubbcU Bids.; 1045 Fifth Ave.  BOSTON Higsins, William P., LL.B.. '03: 18 Tiemont Bids.;  
Scheer, Arthur P., LL.B., '2G: Associates Bids.;642 E. Irvington. Schellinger, Armand, LL.B., '19: Sherland Bids.;1101 Lincolnway West.   3-8080  3-4273  DUBUQUE Nelson, Hon. Patrick J., LL.B.. 430 Seminary St.: Tschudi. Edmund C LL.B., 314-320 B. & I. Bids.: 118 Nevada St.  73 Farragut Road. NEWTON CENTER Dunn. Richard J., LI^B., 'IS: 11 Elmore St.  
Schock. Georse J.. LL.B.. '18:  NORTH ANDOVER  
J.M.S. Bids.:Mar Main Arms.   3-3510  E.MMETSBURG  Dooley. James R., LL.B.. '22: 368 Main St.  
Schulman, Samuel D., os. '25: 412 LO.O.P. Bids.:734 W. Jefferson.   3-'757  Kelly, Edwdard D., os. '21; GREENFIELD  SPRINGFIELD Granfield. William J., LL.B.. '13:  
Shively, Dudley M.. LL.M.. '02: Citirens Bank Bids.:1002 B. Jefferson St.   3-517S  Musmaker, John L.. Ph.B., '20.  State Bids.: 47 Ellington St. Longmeadow.  
Shively, John C . A.B.. '31. LL.B., '.14: Citirens Bfnk Bids.: 3-5176 1002 E. Jefferson St.  NEW HAMPTON Sullivan, Raymond J., LL.B., '15: Unity Bids.  Kane. Michael G.. LL.B.. '23: State Bids.; 128 Shawmot Ave.  

MICHIGAN ALPENA 
LeBIanc Ivan J.. I.I..B.. '29: 808 River SL 
BENTON HARBOR 
Desenbcre. William R.. A.B.. '31. LI..B.. 120 Pipestone Ave.; 
Horka, Henry T.. A.B.. 'SO, LL.B.. '32: 303 ndelitjr Bide.; 166 Parker St. 
BUCHANAN 
Landsman. Philip C, LL.B., '29; State Bank Bids. 
DETROIT Cliriste. Russell P., A.B.. '29: 1239 Hanistiane St. 
DeGree, Edward G.. LL.B.. '23: 31-56 Penobscot Bids-: 15735 Crudder Ave. 
Foley, Daniel E.. I,L.B.. '11: 1039 Penobsot Bldg.: 1534 La\vrence. 
Hisgins. John T.. os. '24; 1632 Buhl Bid?. 
Houppert. Walter W.. LL.B., '25; HOLC Regional Office. 
Kelly, Emmett J., LL.B.. '19: 2403 First National Bank BIdg. 
Kelly, Harry P., LL.B., '17: 2428 First National Bank BIdg. 
Kelly, Ra>-mond J., el. *16: 301 City Hall 
LaJoie, Ernest P., LL.B.. '15: 1517 Dime Bank BIdg.; 18050 Wildemere. 
McCIamon. Edmund F.. LL.B.. '28 2600 Union Guardian Bids.: 144 IVler, Highland Park. 
McLauglin. Thomas A.. LL.B., '16 : Dime Bank Bldg.; 1965 Michigan. 
Wurzer, Louis C, LL.B., '96: 1632 Buhl Bldg.: 272 E. Grand Blvd. 
FLINT 
Pearson. James M.. LL.B., '26; 411-12 Kresge Bldg. 
Ryan, Vincent D., LL.B.. '13: 512 Genesee Bank Bldg.: 629 Stockton St. 
GRAND RAPIDS Deeb, Joseph F.. A.B., '31. LL.B., '33: HOLC; 600 Cambridge Blvd., S. 
Hilding. Charles V., LL.B.. '02: 306 National City Bank Bldg.: 
Roach, Gerald E.. LL.B., '29: 903 Orchard, East Grand Rapids. 
IRON MOUNTAIN Dundon. Edward J., Ph.B., '22, LL.B.. '22; Iron Mountain 
Khonry, Michael J., LL.B., '29: Jacobs Bldg. 
MT. CLEMENS 
Trombley, Malcolm E., A.B., '30, LL.B., '32; Lawyers Bldg.; 80 Lincoln Ave. 
MONROE 
Navarre, Joseph A., A.B., *26; 27 E. Front St 
Beady, Francis T., LL.B., '30; Goart House, Prosecuting Attorney; 733 Cass St. 
MUSKEGON Riley. Joseph T., LL.B., '18: Hackley Union National Bank Bldg.; 1244 Ranson St. 
Sanford, Joseph F., LL.B.. '21; National Lumberman's Bank Bldg.; 35 Palmer Blvd. 
NILES Cook. Leo K.. A.B., '31, LL.B., '33: 35 N. State St. 
Dooling, Tormey, LL.B., '25: Masonic Bldg.; 308 Sycamore St. 
Farrell. Thomas M.. LL.B.. '29: Bums & Kerr Bldg.; 504 N. Fifth St. 
Grathwohl, Casper R., LL.B.. '29; 22414 E. Main St.; 702 Broadway. 
Lagoni, John. LXi.B., '35: 424 St. Joseph Ave. 
Waterson, Robert R., A.B., '32, LL.B.. '34: 103 N. 3rd St. 
PORT HURON De Gurse. E. Newell. LL.B.. '24; White Block. 
O'Sullivan, ClilTord. LL.B.. '20; 307-10 Federal Bank Bldg. 26E0 Military St. 
SAGINAW Friske, Joseph P.. os. '25; 60S Second National Bank Bldg. 
Weadock, John K.. os. '28: 511 Bearinger Bldg. 
ST. JOSEPH Hatfield. Malcolm K., Ph.B., '27: 2305 Niles Ave. 
Miller, Francis J.. A.B.. '26; Peoples State Bank Bldg.; Stevens\'iIIe (res.) 
Weber, Maurice A., os. '24; Peoples State Bank Bldg. 
TAWASCITV Coyle. Michael T., A.B., '34, LL.B.. '35. 
THREE RIVERS Hessmer. Everett L., LL.B., '32: 700 7th St. 
TRAVERSE CITY McConnell, Kenneth J., LL.B., '34: 628 W. Webster St. 
MINNESOTA 
BEKHDJI Smith, Clarence R., LL.B., '22. 
GILBERT Nolan, Mark E., LL.B., '24. 
ST. PAUL Sullivan. Arthur K.. LL.B., '27: 264 Lowry Bldg. 
WORTHINGTON HoIIaren. Vincent, LL.B., '24; Post Office Bldg. 
MISSISSIPPI MISSOURI 
KANSAS CITY Duffy, Drexel L., LL.B., '16; Davidson Bldg.; 3 E. 56th SL (res.) • 
Holland. Thomas V.. LL.6., 1512 Commerce Bldg.; 709 Manhiem Road. 
Latshaw. Donald, OS. '87; Scarritt Bldg. 118 W. 52nd St. 
Mancuso, Fred, os. '21: 1215 Commerce Bldg.: 21 E. 65th St. 
Monteil, Vernon, LL.B., '24; 504 Scarritt Bldg.; 4211 Agnes. 
Reinhardt, os. '17; 1206 Commerce Bldg.; • 6401 Wyandotte. 
Schmidt. Otto A., Ph.B., '09; Federal Bldg. 
Stewart, Joseph, os. '19; 624 Rialto Bldg.: 3520 Pennsylvania Ave. 
ST. LOUIS Casey, Charles W., os.'02; 315 Central National Life Bldg.; Ma. 1928 2857 Laclede Rd. Hi. 2798 
Corley, John L., LL.B.. '02: 3820 Washington Ave.; Jeff. 1062 4463 Lindell Blvd. Ne. 0294 
Swltzer. Frederick, os. '26; 506 Olive St.; Upper Ladue Road, Clayton. 
Taylor, Daniel G., os. '95; Boatmen's Bank Bldg.; Ch. 5230 410 Newstead. 
MONTANA 
Galen, Judge Albert J., LL.B., '96; 435 Clark St. 
Jones, William B.. A.B., '28. LL.B., '31; 411 Powers Bldg. 
NEBRASKA OGALLALA 
McGinley, Gerald J., LL.B.. '26, LL.M., '27; Halligan, Beatty, Halligan £ Maupin. 
OMAHA 
Neble. Judge Sophns F., LL.B., '09: 1017 City National Bank Bldg.: Ills. 49th St. 
NEVADA 
RENO Carville. Hon. Ed^vard P.. LL.B.. '09: 301 First National Bank Bldg. 
Diskin, Hon. Michael A., LL.B., '07. 
NEW HAMPSHIRE NEW JERSEY 
LYNDHURST 
Breslin, Roger, A.B., '28; 296 Ridge Rd. RU 2-3494 409 Stuyvesant Ave. (res.) 
Winberry, John, A.B., '28: 260 Park Ave., Rutherford (res.) 296 Ridge Rd. RU 2-3494 
NEWARK 
Canty, Arthur L., A.B.. '28; 24 Commerce St.; MA 2-4626 30 Virginia Ave., West Orange (res.) 
Duggan, Edward L., LL.B., '26; 24 Commerce St. MA. 2-4626 182 N. Arlington Ave., E. Orange (res.) 

Froelich, Gervase, A.B., '27; 11 Commerce St.; HI 2-6610 74 Insrafaam PI. (res.) 
Riley, Bnssell. A.B., '23; 744 Broad St.: MA 2-84S1 133 N. Day St., Orange (res.) 
Roan, Frank J., os. *07; 10 Park PI.; Mi 2-4100 34 Laurel Ave.. Summit (res.) 
PATERSON 
Phclan. J. Edward, A.B., '31; 6.8 24th St. 
RED BANK 
Carton, Lawrence A., Jr.. A.B., *29: 8 Mohawk Ave. 
TRENTON 
Ryan, Thomas, LL.B., '26: Broad Street Bank BldK.: 275 Spring St. 
NEW MEXICO 

SANTA FE Wood, Bernard P., LL.B.. '28: Catron Bide.: 558 Canyon Rd. (res.) 
NEW YORK 

Touhey. Clare L., A.B., '26: 82 State St.. 
BATAVIA Murray, James W., LL.B., '31: Court Houose: 39 Prospect Ave. (res.) 
Neville, William J., LL.B., '25: Court House: 5 Norris Ave. (res.) 
BINGHAMTON Griffin. Theodore J., A.B.. '29: 30 Chenango St.; I Avon Road (res.) 
McAvoy, Daniel J., os. '22; Security Mutual Bldg.: 255 Main St. 
O'Brien, Edward E., os. '25: Security Mutual Bldg.; 110 Lincoln Ave. 
O'Loughlin. John D., os. '24; Midland Bank Bids.: II Rollin St. 
Wacks. Peter J.. A.B.. '30: Press Bide; 3 Mary St. 
BROOKLYN Blake, Richard V.. LL.B., '13: 188 Montague St.: 6810 7th Ave. (res.) 
Burke. Thomas A,, A.B., '26: 617 Macon St. 
Craning. John E., A.B.. '27; Cain and Gruning, 66 (kiurt St. 
McLaughlin, Leo V., A.B., '32: 70 Pine St.; 39 Plaza St. (res.) 
BUFFALO Angclino, Joseph S., LL.B.. '29: 4 Barton St. 
McCarthy, E. J. Richardson. LL.B., '22: 1906 Liberty Bank Bids.; 414 Elmwood Ave. 
ENDICOTT Miner, William A., LL.B., '22: 119 Washington Ave.: 602 E. Main St. (res.) 
FULTON 
Conley, Maurie B., A.B., '28; 17% S. First St.: 511 Oneida St. (res.) 
LONG ISLAND ' Tuohy, Albert J., A.B., '31: Patrow & Rice, Bayside, L.I. 
Kissling. Joseph P., Ph.B.. Com. '28: 93-11 Lament Ave.. Elmhurst. L. I. 
NEWARK 
Cowles. James G., LL.B., '28: 20 Harrison St. 
Haney, Joseph A.. A.B., '28; 217 E. Union S t 
NEW YORK OTY Antus. John J., A.B., '28: 26 W. 43rd St 
Cotter. William. LL.B., '13: 30 E. 42nd St: 80 Paine Ave.. New Rochelle. 
Craugh, Gerald J., A.B., '21; 15 Broad St: 2970 Bainbridge Ave. 
Dorwin. Oscar J., Ph.B., '17; 135 E. 42nd St, 24th FI.; 70 E. 96th St 
Fallon, Edward A., A.B., '26; 2 Lafayette St, Rm. 1014. 
Flanagan. Simeon T., LL.B., '14: 60 E. 42nd St 
Fosel. Warren S., A.B., '30; 70 Wall St: 239 Woodycrest Ave. 
Hammer, Hon. E. E., A.B., '04: County Court House. 
McKenna. John P. LL.B.. '25: 68 William S t 
Purcell, Thomas, os. '24; 90 Broad St; 32 N. 16th St. East Orange. N. J. (res.) 
Stanford. Grattan. Ph.B.. '04: 620 Fifth Ave. 
Walker, Frank C. LL.B.. '09, LL.D., '34; 1600 Broadway. 
NORWICH Coleman. James W.. LL.B., "27 ; 86 K Main St 
ROCHESTER Baglin, C. Norbert LL.B.. '19: 902 ^Vilder Bldg. 
Burke. Harold P., LL.B., '16: 29 Cleo St 
SILVER CREEK Galloway, Robert P.. LL.B., '22: 28 Grove St 
Privitera, Samuel P., LL.B., '27: 22 Main St: 19 Burgess. 
Snyder. Phil, os. '18: 11 Bentham Parkway. 
McAnaney, Francis A., A.B., *29: 18 Van Cortland Park Ave. 
Walsh. William A.. OS. '96: 16-18 S. Broadway; 51 Park Ave. (res.) 
NORTH CAROLINA NORTH DAKOTA 

OHIO AKRON Keeney, Arthur C, LL.B.. '22; Court House; 91 Melbourne Ave., (res.) 
Hay, Clarence W.. LL.B.. '08: 2200 First Central Ttust Bids. 
Steel. Frank E.. LL.R, '25; 406 Ohio Bldg.: 543 Stratford Ave. 
Wozniak. Joseph J.. LL3. , '29; 1814 First Central Tmst Bldg. 
Wozniak. Stephen J.; IX.a , '28; 1814 ilrst Central. 
ASHTABULA P.ohl. James R.. A.B., '28, LL.B., '32; 4627 Main Ave. 
CAMPBELL Prokop. George E., LL.B.. '22; 2293 Wilson Ave. 
CEUNA Bernard, Walter R., A.B., '30, LL.B., '32: First National Bank 
CINCINNATI 
Castellini, Albert D., LL.B.. '24; 1001 Atlas Bank Bids.; 1301 Park Ridge Place (res.) 
CLEVELAND Butler. John P., A.R, '27; Terminal Tower; 16911 Edgewater Dr., Lakewood (res.) 
Canny, 3. Patrick. LL.B., '28: Erie RR. Legal Dept. Hcdical Arts Bldg.; 1660 Warren Road. Lakewood, (res.) 
Celebrezze, Frank D.. LL.B.. '25; 17100 Truax Ave. 
Collins, John, A.B., '32; 3010 Coleridge Bd., Cleveland Hts. (res.) 
Cull. Frank X., Ph.B., '08: 630 Bulkley Bldg.: 3295 Yorkshire Road. 
Daley. Joseph, Ph.B.. '24 : 3173 Yorkshire Bd., Qeveland Hts. 
Dully. Daniel W.. Ph.B J.C.; 1600 Terminal Tower. 
Flynn, John R.. LL.B., '23: 608 Williamson Bldg.: 16720 Scottsdale Blvd., Shaker Hts. 
Gibbons. William G., os. '14; 3712 Rocky River Dr. 
Gleason. Clinton H., LL.B., '25 ; Auditorium Bldg. 
Gleason, John P.. OS. '17; 1525 Williamson Bids.: 2557 Ingleside Rd., Shaker Hts. 
Gleason. John W., Jr., LL.B.. '23: Prosecutor's Office, Central Police Sta.: 1380 Ansel Rd. 
GrisanU. Alfred. A.B.. '31: 1205 St. Clair Ave. 
Kaiser. Charies H.. A.B., '28: 2015 Arthur Ave. 
Krider. William A.. LL.B., '25; 506 Cuyahoga Bids.: 12317 Brackland Ave. 
Leroux. Clayton G., Ph.B.Com. '27: 840 Leader Bldg.; 3356 Daleford Rd. 
Miller, Donald C. LL.B., '25: 1600 "rerminal Tower 
Miller. Gerald W.. LL.B., '25: County Prosecutor's Office: 2658 Kemper Rd. 
Miller, Howard H., LL.B., '24: 1438 Northland Ave., Lakewood, (res.) 
Miller. M. Harry. Ph.B.. '10; 1300 Guardian Bldg.; 15915 Femway Bd., Shaker Hts. 
Miller, Bay T.. LL.B., '14: 1600 Terminal Tower. 
Murphy. John P.. LI..B, '12: 3200 Terminal Tower; 13801 Shaker Blvd.  Pater. B. Vincent. LUB.. '22; 511 Kcntschler Bldg.: Gray & Emerson Ave.  • 7833911 UcHahon. Thomas D., LL.B., '27:  1208 Public Service Bide.:  2005 N. E. 22nd Ave.  
O'Connor. Pierce J.. A.B.. '2£ 1044 Hanna Bids.:  Walsh, Harry F.. LL.B.. '31: .•ill Rentschlcr Bids.:  783 Clifford. Twomcy M., LL.B., '14:  5836 N. E. Garfield Ave.  
2129 Lamberton  Road.  431 N. Fourth  St.  

Eini, Martin, A.B.. '2S: 1220 Standard Bldg.; 2888 Ludlow Boad. 
HuffinfT. Cornelius, A.B., '32: 308 Euclid Bide. 
Sammon, Daniel F... A.B., '25: Police Prosecutor's O/ficc: 5820 Detroit Ave. 
Slough, Francis D., A.B., '33: 600 Keith Bids.: 1064 Forest Cliff Drive, Zakeuood. 
Smith, Joseph E.. Ph.B., '14, Lli.B., '16: 355 Dalwood Drive: 
Sweeney, Joseph L.. A.B., '27: 1900 Windemere Ave., East Cleveland: 
Thomas. Elias G., A.B., '28: 2346 Broadway. Lorain. 
"Weisend. John L., os. '20: 1857 ^Mllowhurst Road. 
CRESTLINE 
Scanlon, Leo J., LL.B., '30: 616 Union St. 

COLtntBUS Dombey, Alex, os., '26: 17 S. High St.: Ad. 7437 1608 E. Long St. Fa. 8660 
Hamilton, Don M., LL.B., '12: 17 S. High St.: Ma. 3231 222 Cassingham Ave. Ev. 4125 
MacBride, James J., os. '28: 16 E Broad St.: Ma. 5136 1167 Neil Ave. 
Un. 1393 
Nestcr, Harry P.. LL.B., '20; 8 E. Broad St.: Ad. 3053 110 S. Stanwood Kd. Fa. 4968 
Fontana, John C, A.B., '28: 22 E. Gay SL: 1460 W. 6th Ave. 
Zipperer. Bernard E., A.B„ '28: 1168 B. Broad St. 
DAYTON 
Femeding, H. L., os. '93: Mutual Home Building: Fu GGSl 125 Wisteria Drive. 
Ford, Thomas H., LL.B., '11: 

U.B. Building: Ad. 1522 127 Maple Ave. 
Johnston, J. Farrell: Union Trust Bldg.; Fu. 1137 Gibbons Hotel. 
Mayl, Eugene A.. LL.B., '24: AVinters Bank Bids.: Ad. 3671 400 Irving Ave.: 
Murphy, Joseph B., LL.B., '11; Winters Bank Bldg.; Ad. 3671 104 Lexington Ave. 
Shea, W. Edmund, LL.B., '23: Third National Bldg.; Fu 9952 309 Rockwood Ave. 
HAMILTON 
Burns, M. O.. LL.B.. '86; 511 Rentschler Bldg.; 917 Virginia Ave. 964 
Congdon, John W.. LL.B., '27: 320 Kentschler Bids.: 806 602 Ridgelawn Ave. 
Rehrer, Marc A., LL.B., '27: 708 Kentschler Bldg. 1236 410 Dick Ave. 686 
Holbroch, Gregory J., os. '25: 501-3 Bentschler Bldg. 
LOGAN 
Canty, Joseph J., LL.B.. '29: Arcade Bldg.; 332 Mound St. (res.) 
NEWARK Bolton. Hon. Francis A., Litt.B„ '94; Citj- Bldg.: 528 Hudson Ave. 
NORTH BALTIMORE Miller. Paul E.. Ph.B.Com.. '26: 340 N. Main St. 
PAINESVILLE Brady. Paul J.. A.B., '28: S3 Wood St. 
SANDUSKY Wagner. George A.. Ph.B.Com.. '28: 740 E. Park Ave. 
'HFFIN Dore. TOlliam H., LL.B., '30: 33 Adams St.. 
TOLEDO Cochrane, John C. LL.B., '23: 838-842 Spitzer Bids.: 3210 Colliins^vood Ave. 
Hascrty, Edward J.. LL.B.. '28; 331 Nicholas Bldg.: 536 Woodville Ave. 
Wetii, Joseph L., LL.B., '31: 717 Starr Avenue: 
OKLAHOMA 
TULSA Blake, Marion, A.B., '33: 532 National Bank of Tulsa Bldg.: 610 So. Elwood. 
Moran, Joseph, A.B., '30. LL.B.. '32: 532 National Bank of Tulsa Bldg.: 1611 S. Carson Avenue. 
OREGON 
ASTORIA Franciscovich, Frank M., LL.B.. '21: Norglad & Hesse; 321 17th St. 
Hope, James L.. LL.B., '11: 1205 Astoria Savings Bank Bldg. 
BURNS Foley, Charles, LL.B.. "22. 
PENDLETON 
Kilkenny. John F.. LL.B.. '25: First National Bank Bldg.; Elks Club. 
POKTLANT) Beckman, John, os. '07; Pacific Bldg. 
Collier. Prank T.. Ph.B., '07. AJ 703 Bedell Bldg. 
Hodler. Albert. LL.B., '23; 404 Yeon Bldg. 
Horst, Eoscoe. LL.B., '06: 1406 Yeon Bldg.: 732 E. 42nd St, No. 
Kavanaugh, Nortert, A.B., '26: 504 Mead Bldg. 
Lonergan. Prank J., LL.B., '04: Porter Bldg. 
PENNSYLVANIA 
BLAIRSVILLE 
Short, John C, A.B., '28: 234 S. Spring. 
CARNEGIE 
Portman, Charles, A.B., '25: 518 Chestnut St. 
HOMESTEAD 
Hickey, John, A.B., 31: 1104 Park Square Homestead 1339j 
PITTSBURGH Boyle, Hugh C, A.B.. '24; Law & Finance Bldg. Atlantic 0617 5821 Kentucky Ave. Mayflower 8290 
Breslin. John J., LL.B.. '11: Berscr Bldg. Court 5593 5532 Forbes S t Schenley 1188 
Briley. John A.. Litt.B.. '23; Union Trust Bldg. Atlantic 5944 812 Heberton Ave. Montrose 5690 
Kennedy. John J., A.B., '09: 1409 Park Bldg.; Atlantic 4996 229 S. Atlantic Ave. Emerson 0162 
Murphy. Charles M., os. Berjter Bldg.: Court 2264 129 S. Fairmont Ave. Montrose 0929 
O'Toole. James L.. Jr., LL.B., '21; Plaza Bldg.; Atlantic 6758 1444 Duflield S t Montrose 4923 
SCRANTON 
Jordan, James D., A.B,, '07 431-432 Connell Bldg.: 1612 Capousc Ave. 
SHARON Vallely, Eugene, A.B., '32 
RHODE ISLAND SOUTH CAROLINA SOUTH DAKOTA TENNESSEE 
CLARKSVILLE 
Traughber, John T., LL.B.. '30: 719 Commerce 
MEMPHIS Bryan, Charles M., LittB., '97; Sterick Bldg.; 6-2182 1640 Peabody Ave. 
McCormack, Michael J., LL.B., '0 196 E. Parkway. S. 7-2692-j 
Magevney. Hugh M., A.B., '25; 1787 Union Ave. 7-0916 
Mooney. C. P. J., Jr.. LL.B., '21: Exchange Bldg. 6-1450 3;5 N. Avalon St 
Moriarty, Herbert B., os. '12; Commerce Title Bldg.; 909 Oakmont S t 
Walsh, Bailey, os. '24; 
Columbia Mutual Tower Bldg.: 
2985 Iroquois Bd. 
Wrape, James W., LL.B., '25; 2012 Sterick Bldg.: 6-6755 1451 Monroe Ave. 
TEXAS AUSTIN 
Waterson, Tass D., A.B., '77: 1408 Norivood Bldg. 

CONROE 
Green, Thomas F„ Jr., Ph.B.For.Cora., '27: West Bide. H. 5093 415 Branard. III 

DALLAS McCultough, Frank A., os., *29: 603 Cotton Exchange Bldg.: 7-9301 3907 Gilbert Ave. 5-0816 
Swift, James P.. LL.B., '24: Southwestern Life Bide. 2-7195 3210 Abrsims Road. 8-4051 
Walsh, James L.. Jr.. A.B., '30: Old City National Bank BIdg. 7-0373 622 E. Ninth St. 6-C557 

HOUSTON 
Burkitt. George W.. A.B.. '02: Gulf Bldg. H. 667 426 Wtstmoreland. F. 6200 
Goslin, Charles R.. LL.B., '27: 3320 Main St. P. 0201 
Odem. Bryan S., LL.B., '17: 205 Federal Bldg. 
Powers. J. Nat, LL.B., '24: Esperson BIdg.: H. 0866 514 Branard. P. SS91 
Scoggins, Robert C. LL.B., '24 : Humble Bldg.: H. S675 506 Avondale 

UTAH SALT LAKE CITY Brady, Raymond R.. LL.B., 206 Kearns Btdg. 
VERMONT 
VIRGINIA 

WASHINGTON SEATTLE Cochrane, Edward L.. Litt.B.. '22: 822 Northern Life Tower: 752 Belmont Place. 
WEST VIRGINIA 

CHARLESTON 
Hudson, Hon. Arthur P., Litt.B.. '95: Court House: 1666 Washington St. 
WISCONSIN 

ANTIGO McDougal, Thomas E., LL.B., '30 : Oik Building: SOS Lincoln Ave. 
DOOGEVILLE Hamilton, Francis D.. A.B., '2S. 
JANES VILLE 
McCluskey. Daniel W.. LL.B.. "27: 432 N. Bluir St. 

HURLEY Raineri, Joseph C. Jr., os. '29: 202 Silver St.: 1288 407 Second Ave. 231 
!tUKQUETTE McKevitt, Thomas, A.B.. '32, LL.B , '34 : Federal Building. 
aaLWAUKEE 
Brennan, Martin J., os. '10: 229 R Wisconsin Ave.: Daly 1987 5862 N. Shore Drive. Edgewood 7475 
Brown, Wm. E., A.B., '29: Allis Chalmers Mfg. Co.: Greenfield 3600 2837 W. Highland Blvd. West 4113 
Burke, Frank P.. LL.B., "03: llO E. Wisconsin Ave.: Daly 3708 2121 W. Wisconsin Ave. West 1133 
Fitzpatrick. Edwin D., os. '17: 735 N. Water St.: Daly 1639 3920 N. Maryland Ave. Edgewood 2925m 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Hayden, Thomas E.. Jr., os. *27: 
7.35 N. Water St.: Daly 2319 3240 W. McKinley Blvd. West 7276 
Kelly, Thomas C, LL.B., '18: 806 N. 11th St.: Mamuette 4443 71th & Beckett Ave. Hilltop 8715 
Lutz, Robert E., os. '27: 3518 W. Fondulac Ave.: Hilltop 2920 2026 N. 32nd St. Kilbourn 5178w 
Martin, John, os. '15; 710 N. Plankinton Ave.: Marquette 6180 2535 N. Stowcll Ave. Lakeside 3800 
McCabe, Sheridan P., LL.B., 4327 W. North Ave.: Kilbourn 6464 2031 N. 39th St. Kilbourn 5866 
O'Brien. Earl J., LL.B., '31: 231 W. Wisconsin Ave.: Marciuette 1690 730 N. 32nd St. West 1928M 
Porter, Harry J., B.S.C.E., '30: 626 E. Wisconsin Ave.: Broadway 8640 1726 N. 73rd St. Greenfield 1890 
Powers. P. Gerald, Ph.B.Com. '20: 
161 W. Wisconsin Ave.: Marquette 0871 4059 N. 24th St. Hilltop 6402 

Shea, Edmond B., os. *09: 736 N. Water St.: Broadtrar 4432 Fox Point. Edgewood 3962 
Yockey, Chauncey W., LL.B.. '01: 320 Wells Bldg.: Daly 2132 710 E. Mason St. Marquette 0400 
Yockey, Edward, LL3. , 320 Wells Bldg.: Daly 2132 3118 N. Summit Ave. Edgewood 3536 
RACINE Brown, John R., A.B., '29: 425 10th St. 
WATERTOWN Bcggan, Francis P., LL.B.. '28; 
WYOMING 

CHEYENNE 
Bon. Francis J., A.B., '26; Majestic BIdg.; (Senate Office Bldg., Washington, D.C.) 
NOTRE DAME LAW PUBLICATION OUTSTANDING 
No write-up of the Notre Dame College of Law would be complete without mention of one of the more modern and outstanding develop­ments—the quarterly law re^-iew, The Notre Dame Lawyer. 
The iirst issue of the current year, November, is now in circulation. Jan­uary, March and May are the other publication months. (Subscription price is $2.50 annually.) 
The magazine was founded by the late Dudley G. Wooten in 1925, and through student, faculty and alumni contributions has become a w^idely read and recognized professional re­view. Outside jurists and attorneys have become frequent contributors on topics of current moment in the legal world. 
In the current issue, for example, Leo Hassenauer, '20, United States attorney in Chicago, has a splendid 
article on St. Thomas More, to whom the issue is dedicated. Prof. William 
D. Kollison, of the law faculty, su­pervising editor of the magazine, has a noteworthy contribution, "Succes­sion to Interstate Property." 
A student contribution, from group effort, restates the Law of Agency, in which 25 sections of the law are annotated with respect to the laws of Indiana. 
Departments of notes on decisions, book reviews, and occasional features within the professional field, com­plete the issue. 
Three students in the College of Law share the editorial responsibili­ties this year, — John Locher, Monti­cello, Iowa; Robert Devine, Norwalk, Connecticut, and Richard Molique, Logansport, Indiana. 
The circulation includes most of the colleges of law in this country. South America and Europe. 
The Present Law Buildin3 
¥»-SS-. r '.-. .. ..• 
:-;J^l 
r 

estemeias ^^^ 
I^M­
^ = 
jy^j. 
© 1935, LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCXJ CO. 

This book is ucx to b« taken fron: the Library 
atton 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DECEMBER?, 1935 
Honoring the New Commonwealth of the Philippines 
. • -• 
- -i 
-'ny\ 

Uj ,:>• ^4­
r,-­

> > 
^fjt\^t. -.-­
JANUARY 
A Supplement to 
1936 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Number Four 
Volume Fourteen 


PROGRAM 
Academic Procession from the Administration Building, to the University Gymnasium. 
Order of the Procession 
Marshal of the Faculty 
Members of the Hierarchy The Most Reverend John F. Noll, DD . Chaplain, Reverend Hugh O'Donnell, CS.C. The Most Reverend John M. Gannon, DX). Qiaplain, Reverend William Connor, CS.C. The Most Reverend Edward F. Hoban, D.D. , Chaplain, Reverend Matthew Walsh, CS.C. The Most Reverend Karl J. Alter, D.D. Chaplain, Reverend Bernard J. HI, CS. C The Most Reverend Joseph C. Ritter, D.D. Chaplain, Reverend George Marr, CS. C The Most Reverend Francis X. Ford, D.D. Chaplain, Reverend Lawrence Broughal, CS. C 
Mister Carlos Pena Romulo 
Trustees of the University Mr. Byron V. Kanaley Mr. Miles O'Brien Mr. C Roy McCanna Mr. Edward J. Doyle Mr. George M. Anson Mr. Peter C. Reilly Mr. Francis W. Lloyd 
Deans of the Cbll^es 
T. Bowyer Campell, Arts and Letters Reverend Francis Wenninger, CS.C, Science Walter Shilts, Engineering Thomas F. Konop, Law James E. McCarthy, Commerce 
Faculty of the College of Arts and Letters 
Faculty of the College of Science 
Faculty of the Collie of Engineering 
Faculty of the CoU^e of Law 
Faculty of the College of Commerce 
Members of the Qass of 1936 of the Five CoU^es. 
Meeting of President Roosevelt and Cardinal Mundelein at the Memorial Door of Sacred Heart Church. 
III. Appearance of President Roosevelt and Other Disting­uished Guests on the Stage of the University Gymnasium. "Hail to the Chief," played by the University Band under the Direction of Professor Joseph Casasanta 
IV.  Solemn Opening of the Special Convocation Honoring the New Commonwealth of the Philippines. "The Star-spangled Banner," played by the University Band  
V.  Introductory Address by the Reverend John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, President of the University of Notre Dame.  
VI.  Reading of the Citations for the Honorary Doctorates of Law of Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Carlos Pena Romulo by the Director of Studies of the University of Notre Dame, Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C.  
VII.  ConferringUniversity.   of  the  Doctorates  by  the  President  of  the  
VIII.  "The Mind of a New Commonwealth,"Response by Doctor Carlos Romulo.   Address  of  
IX.  "No Mas Amor," Philippine Anthem. Sung by the University Choir of Moreau Seminary under the direction of Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C.  
X.  Introduction of the President of the United States of America by His Eminence, George Cardinal Mundelein, Archbishop of Chicago.  
XI.  Address by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt.  
XII.  Blessing of the Assemblage by Cardinal Mundelein.  
XIII.  Official Closing of the Special Convocation. "The Victory March," played by the University Band  

Informal Receptions for the Several Guest Groups Followed 
A Convocation Honoring the New Philippine Commonwealth 
Notre Dame on December Ninth Heralds Birth of New Nation With Special Cere­monies Involving Church and State; President, Cardinal and Distinguished 
Philippine Scholar 
". . . Fortunate coinddence of historic influences brought to this occasion at Notre Dame," was the manner in which the eloquent Doctor Carlos Romulo described the convocation honoring the new Commonwealth of the Philippines, held in the University Gymnasium on December 9, 1935. 
Originally scheduled to coincide with the inauguration of President Quezon, the Notre Dame ceremonies were postponed to make it possible for President Roosevelt to participate per­sonally in the observance. 
So it was that on the platform of the Gymnasium, trans­formed, as at the Commencemaits since 1933, into an impres­sive hall, there were gathered representatives justifying Doctor Romulo's description. 
His Eminence, George Cardinal Mundelein, Archbishop of Chicago and highest ranking Roman Catholic ecclesiastic west of the Allegheny mountains, presided. 
?^- .^ 
• Jpiy 

25^^-€>  Address Audience 
His Excellency the President of the United States, Fraiiklin Delano Roosevelt, was present, spoke, and was awarded Notre Dame's Doctorate of Laws. 
Carlos Peiia Romulo, distinguished Philippine journalist, educator and a prominent figure in the progress of the Island independence, was awarded the Doctorate of Laws. His ad­dress on behalf of the Philippines was a classic^ the text of which the ALUMNUS is privileged to reprint. 
Bishops, monsignori, cabinet members and other statesmen, supplemented in most colorful array the principal characters of the occasion. 
His Excellency, John Francis Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, was spiritual host of the Convocation. 
His Excellency, Hon. Paul V. McNutt, Governor of the State of Indiana, was civil host. 
I*. ^ mm 
President Franklin D. Roosevelt Addressing Convocation Audience 
And, of course, present, speaking in his clear, forceful fashion, was the president of the University, the Rev. John F. O'Hara, CS.C. 
Texts of all speeches are reprinted in this issue. This brief account, therefore, will deal only with the supplemental facts of the event. 
Stories can tell only briefly and imply long betwcen-the­line notes of the cooperation that contributed to the success of the Convocation. 
All departments of the University of course functioned toward that end. The President of the United States and his aides were most gracious in their assistance. Doctor Romulo responded to every request. Cardinal Mundelein most gener­ously contributed his efforts. 
The University Band and the University Choir of Moreau Seminary added greatly to the atmosphere of harmony and dignity which characterized the proceedings throughout. 
The Gty of South Bend, through its Mayor, its Chamber of Commerce, its Retail Merchants Association, its public and parochial schools, civic organizations, and a special Civic Com­mittee, headed by Bernard J. VoU, president of the Alumni Association, extended every civic courtesy. The dty was dec­orated extensively, and the line of march of President Roose­velt from the Union Station to the University, was lined with the citizens of the area. 
The Studebaker Corporation and the car dealers- of the dty supplied cars for the use of all visiting celebrities and the local committees appointed to meet and escort them. 
The fadUries of the State police in escort and traffic prob-. lems were placed at the University's disposal. 
From all sides the agendes involved in making the Con­vocation successful responded prompdy and effidendy. 
The results were evident in the smoothness with which the occasion itself carried through, and in the press reactions, which were uniformly congratulatory. 
Mr. and Mrs. Romulo arrived in South Bend December 8, and Mr. Romulo was the guest of honor at a Communion Breakfast of the Spanish-speaking students of Notre Dame on the morning of December 9. He accompanied the academic procession to the Gymnasium for the Convocation. 
Cardinal Mundelein came from Chicago in a special car at noon on the ninth. He was driven direcdy to the campus and joined the President's patty at the War Memorial door of Sacred Heart Church, in company with the Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Very Rev. James W . Donahue, CS.C. 
President Roosevelt came from Chicago, where he had made an address at the stockyards in the morning. His special train, with Postmaster General Farley, Asst. Postmaster Gen­eral Ambrose O'Connell, '07, Governor Homer of Illinois, Mayor Kelly of Chicago, and other dignitaries of state, arrived in South Bend at 2:10. A committee headed by Father O'Hara met the party and the motorcade moved through the dvic line of march to the University. The President was driven about the campus before being taken to the Gymnasiimi. 
The ceremonies were broadcast through the facilities of the National and Columbia chains as well as local stations, headed by WSBT, the Soudi Bend Tribune. 
Requests for copies of the addresses, particularly the schol­arly presentation of Doctor Romulo, indicate a coast to coast audience that swelled the 6,500 capacity audience of the Gym­nasium to inestimable thousands. 
A very interesting sidelight was the fact that the Notre Dame Club of the Philippine Islands was listening to the cere­monies at a spedal meeting, held at three o'clock in the morn­ing, Manila time. 
Citations for the degrees were read by the Rev. J. L. Carrico, CS.C, '03, director of studies. The deans of the five Colleges, T. Bowyer Campbell, Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, CS.C, '11, Acting Dean Walter L. Shilts, Thomas F. Konop, and James E. McCarthy, were on the platform, as was the vice-president of the University, Rev. Hugh O'Don­nell, CS.C, '16. 
Among the interested groups of spectators who gained coveted admission to the limited capadty of the Gymnasium were: the Notre Dame students, students of St. Mary's Col­lege and the Sisters of the neighboring institution; a group of 19 crippled children from South Bend, with whom President Roosevelt is so much in sympathy. In this last connection, too, alumni will be pleased to learn that Van Wallace, the heroic Notre Dame boy who has been paralyzed for the last ten years as the resiJt of a diving accident, was in the audience, coming from Mount Clemens, to derive inspiration from Pres­ident Roosevelt and Cardinal Mundelcin's tribute to the par­ticular physical victory of the Chief Executive. 
Many Local Alumni Clubs were officially represented and many alumni both local and more distant were among those enjoying the brilliant function. 
Only two convocations of a similar nature, that is at which degrees were awarded, have been held at the University. One was the bestowing of the Doctorate of Laws upon Gilbert K. Chesterton, during his six-weeks lecture course at Notre Dame in 1931. The other was the conferring of the Dcxsorate upon Guglielmo Marconi in 1933. 
From all sides, to the administration of the University, has come praise for the recognition of the freedom of the Philippines. 
The addresses, which are happily available for this maga­zine and appear in full in this supplement, are so embracing, and the possibility of covering the background adequately, so remote, that little else will be said. 
AT THE DOOR OF SACRED HEART CHURCH His Excellency, His Eminence and the Superior General in Auspicious Mood REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, CS.C. On fundamental principles there is no room for compromise 
Address by The Rev. John R OHara, C S. C 
University President's Opening Speech for the Special Convocation Held in Observance of Philippine Day 
Tills special convocation of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame has been called for the purpose of honoring the new Commonwealth of the Philippines. The presence of so many and such distinguished guests makes of this act of friendliness an historic occasion. And rightly so. If it be not unique, it is at least remark­able for a nation to take the final step to sovereignty without bloodshed; and it is indeed eminently fitting that when we mark this event and bless the spirit behind it, we have oppor­tunit}' to thank personally the states­man most responsible for it, President Franklin D. Roosevelt. We find deep gratification also in the gracious pres­ence 'of His Eminence, the Cardinal of the Missions, who presides at these exercises, George Cardinal Mundelein, Archbishop of Chicago. 
The ties that unite the University of Notre Dame to the Philippine Is­lands are several and close. A dis­tinguished member of our religious community, the late iVrchbishop Peter 
J. Hurth, gave twenty years of de­voted service to the Church there. Members of many of the most dis­tinguished families in the Islands have been students here, and we learn with satisfaction that they are now taking a responsible part in the affairs of their country. They came to us to learn the Catholic principles of life and to nourish the seeds of sound character. It is only proper that we should recognize them as representative of the best traditions of Notre Dame. 
In the person of the scholarly and distinguished representative of the Philippine Islands who is today our guest, Mr. Carlos P. Romulo, we ex­tend the felicitations of the Univers­ity to His Excellency, President Que­zon, and to his government. jVnd in the exercise of our academic privilege to teach, we venture to add the friendly admonition that in the Cath­olic principles of philosophy the new government of the Philippines can find much wisdom which no nation can afford to ignore. Our own be­loved President has found support in the Encyclicals of Pope Leo XIII and Pope Pius XI; it would ill behoove the Catholic people of the Philippines to be less appreciative than he of the wisdom of the Vatican. Your people, Mr. Romulo, have chosen democracy son did not overlook the pi-ofound teachings of St. Robert Bellarmine on the subject of democracy. ii.nd in the problems of internationalism which your geographical limits and location impose, do not overlook the teachings of St. Thomas Aquinas, whose brothers in Christ, the Domin­ican friars, have contributed so much and for so long to the intellectual life of your people. 
To His Eminence, Cardinal Mun­delein, the University owes a debt of gratitude, to which it gladly gives public expression on this occasion. The Archdiocese of Chicago and the University of Notre Dame have gro\vn up together. In the Columbus murals that decorate the administra­tion building on the campus, there is a portrait of Father Neyron, who, before taking Holy Orders, was a surgeon with Napoleon I, and who, with several other priests, lived at Notre Dame and did missionary work in Chicago. We believe that we see a parallel in the sacrifices which the -A.rchdiocese and the University have made in their struggles to do the work God has entrusted to them. We treasure the blessing and the good will of His Eminence, and we try to profit by his noble example of zeal for the glory of God. 
To you, Mr. President, we cannot adequately express the gratitude we feel for your goodness in turning aside from weighty duties to be with us today. Notre Dame is a home as well as a school; and what is called the Notre Dame spirit emanates from this home that is a school and this school that is a home. We w^elcome 
(Please turn to Pase 20) 

as the form of government under which they will live; Thomas Jeffer­The Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, Awarding Degree to President Roosevelt 
At The Special Convocation of The Faculty 
Of the University of Notre Dame, honoring the new Commonwealth of the Philippines, the degree of doctor of laws, honoris causa, is conferred on: 
% A leader and ruler who, with faith and invincible courage when other brave men were faltering, took the reins of gov­ernment at a crisis which threatened with collapse and chaos the centuried civiliza­tion and institutions of our country and the rest of the world, and who is now by achievement even more than by official position the first citizen of our republic— The honorable Franklin Delano Roosevelt, President of the United States. 
% An eminent Catholic journalist, or­ator, educator, and public servant, who has had a leading part in the establishment of the newest nation, a man who by his con­vincing championship of Christian principles has won the confidence and support of his people—^The honorable Carlos Pena Romu­lo, of Manila, Philippine Islands. 
The Mind of a New Commonwealth 
Address Delivered by Mr. Carlos P. Romulo at the Special Convocation Dec. 9, 1935, Commemorating the Establishment of the Republic of the Philippines 
One would be dull of wit, indeed, and slow of heart who could be un­responsive to the fortunate coinci­dence of historic influences brought to this occasion at Notre Dame. I refer to the apt confluence of the Faith and freedom that have streamed through the history of the Philippines, nurturing our people to the maturity of independence. Today, both are given representative testimony in a joint gesture of remembrance and the concerned congratulation of amicable hope. 
His Excellency, the President of the United States, bespeaks the free­dom of a nation dedicated to the pro­position that all men, and all groups of men, are created equal before the law; a nation which controls itself through democratic institutions so de­signed as to serve evenly the rights of all—their liberties and opportuni­ties; that each may live without ser­vitude and without envy; protected in domestic security and confirmed in the inalienable, proprietarj' powers of citizens. 
The sovereignty of this Republic is shared by all, possessed by none, that the authority of government may never be presumptive or arbitrary but only representative and revoc­able. A Democracy may vote away its powers—as it has in Germany and, recently, in Greece; but a republic cannot do likewise without ceasing to exist. In the United States, freedom is not limited to the franchise of suf­frage but extended to all elements of political and social function. The State, then, can never become co­equal with the community; as could be if processes of government were accepted as embracing the structure and form of society. The community is greater, as well as antecedent to, the State,. It creates the State to control and order its multiple inter­ests; interests which citizens never relinquish whether to kings, princes, or parliaments. To mistake this rela­tion, to misread the genealogy of gov­ernment, is to induce the subservience of the popular to the governmental will, 'Of the people, by the people, for the people,' is, therefore, a prepo­sitional summary of the concept of that freedom which the United States enjoys and which, with singular mag­nanimity, it has conveyed and be­queathed to the Filipino people. 
Among a people so naturally dis­posed as the Filipinos to indepen­dence, this doctrine of freedom, taught with the conviction of discov­ery, found widespread and lively ac­ceptance. Small wonder, that we should have desired for ourselves what the Americans taught was the preeminent blessing of national ex­istence ! 
There are some now, however, who would caution us (and not imprudent­ly) that autonomy may prove precipi­tate; that we are imskilled in state­craft; lacking the consciousness of or­ganic unity; infantile in the arbitra­ment of arms; that we are economi­cally overweighted by the past prefer­ment of e-xport; in short, that free­dom may mean famine, if it will not mean worse. 
To such counsel of caution we reply that freedom is an essential condition of national, as of individual, expres­sion. The Revolutionary -Americans so believed and, risking all, died in the hallowed name of Liberty. Bun­ker Hill, Valley Forge, Saratoga are the immortal watch-words of an ideal and a lasting record of its price. The Filipinos, too, have their battlefields of Freedom and they shall bear, I trust, with equanimity the trials that independence imposes. Indeed, mis­fortune and dangers are but the tran­sient, if inescapable circumstances of liring; to strive to overcome them is to live valiantly. We desire ho more! 
And in our freedom, we shall be fortified by that Faith which outlasts because it transcends Time. This greater heritage of the vast majority of our people is given witness today by Notre Dame and the prelates of the Catholic Church. Like freedom. Faith reached us through conquest. Centuries ago, with the crown of Spain came the cross of Clu-ist; both borne on the vehement and masterful exuberance of those dauntless ad­venturers who foreshortened the earth. They sought silver for their king and subjects for their God. Among us they found both. But the crown was really buried with them; we have al­most forgotten how or when. The cross remains throughout our is­lands, a symbol and an evidence of the radical culture oi our minds. 
For no one can believe human life foreshadows, through mysteries, a more ample and intimate existence 
with God; no one can believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God Who saved us by His death and sanctifies us by His Sacrament; no one can be­lieve himself a conscious soul under the commandment of Divine love; no one, I repeat, can believe these things without having altered profoundly the quality of his thought and the di­rection of his outlook. Such belief is a tradition among the Filipinos. , It distinguishes us among the peoples of the Par East; and it will be a vital, creative agent in the formation of our new nation. By this, I do not wish to imply that Catholicism is the religion of the State. It is much more; it is the religion of the people. And the people, not the State, are sovereign. To constrain religion as an instru­mentality of Government and to adopt the anomalous thing called 'State Religion' is to consider religion falsely and abandon it, as contempo­rary events elsewhere prove, to the mercy of a Government which may not be representative of the people whom it rules. To permit the State to adopt a religion is to concede to the State its potential extension to all functions of Society; it is to con­ceive the State as the ultimate frame­work of the social organism. The contrary is, of course, true in the very nature of things. Government, unless it be tyranny, is but an instru­ment variously chosen by the com­munity for its own social purposes. 
So the Philippine constitution in­structs its future government that there shall be freedom of worship, indicating thereby that its power sh ^ be limited to control manifestations aifecting public discipline; and indi­
> eating, too, that the practice of reli­gion shall in no way be considered as dependent on legislative conces­sion. The phrase 'freedom of wor­ship' places religion outside the basic law rather than within it; and proper­ly so, since a constitution is projected to restrict government, not Society. 
The Catholic Faith will be, accord­ingly, free to inspire, develop and modify our institutions conformably to its supreme law of charity. Through charity we should achieve obedience without servility; authority without autocracy; justice without fa­voritism; equality of respect without the anarchy of no distinctions. A legalistic mechanism never has been, nor will be, devised to attain per se 
CARLOS PENA RQMULO, LLD. ". . . In our freedom, we shall be fortified by that Faith. 
the ends of social justice. Nor are these ends furthered substantially, as some maintain, by racial tempera­ment, geographical position or con­tingent relationships. Only the assur­ance of Christian charity enables us to forecast the direction that the exercise of sovereignty will take. Faith, then, gives sustenance to our freedom. 
-Graced with this double gift of Qonstructive forces, the Philippine Commonwealth initiates a new na­tional effort for the realization of an ordered and equivalent Society. It would be presumptuous to say we shall achieve it; it would be supine not to try. We shall begin our task with an enthusiasm sobered by his­torical perspective. If we are a new­bom nation, we are not, thereby new­bom to the perception of realities. We can be careful not to be misled bj' ardent apostles of fatuous pana­ceas, infallible in appearance because tested only against the unanswering vacuity of their author's minds. We can be docile before facts and mind­ful that systems, however finely sculp­tured, can be bi'oken by inordinate hearts and tempestuous wills. We can put forth a modest, well-princi­pled effort to approximate a solution of the harassing problem of economic balance and distribution. 
Until lately the Philippines had a plantation economy such as once ob-t->ined in the South-eastei'n States of the Union. Now, we have moved, though in a limited degree, toward the complexities of agi-ai-ian and in­dustrial capitalism. There is, in cap­italism, much that is still immature and, therefore, maladjusted to the ex­isting social order. 
But there is nothing inherently vicious in capitalism. This pooling of wealth for production needs to be counter-balanced by pooling of i-e­sources of consumption; only so, can capitalism be wholesome and bene­ficial. We do not share the views of those who would prevent the acquire­ment of wealth by distributing it gratuitously. We believe such a process would either destroy wealth for all or concentrate it in the hands of some group who would call them­selves, euphemistically, the State. 
We do not accept the Marxian dia­lectic that classes are economicalbj formed and that the road to security is through the liquidation of those ••lasses in favor of the proletariat. Every Oriental knows that there is scarcely any proletariat in the Far East; and knows, too, that classes are formed there by educational discrim­ination as in China, by social hered­ity as in Malaya, by religious modali­ties as in India where no amount of acquired wealth would warrant in­fringement of class privileges. True, the Far East is mildly sensitive to Communism but not because the Far East is class conscious; rather because it is land conscious. Communism in the East is not a philosophy; it is an illegitimate hope for unearned in­crement. Economic class warfare is a myth of the Communists. But eco­nomic conflict, as a disorder of the whole social body, is no mj-th and we shall strive to eliminate it from our commonwealth by what I have re­ferred to as a modest well-principled effort. 
The approach to this must be real­istic; not patronizing and crusading. It is grandiose and anai'chial non­sense to pretend that all elements of society must enjoy equality of iden­tity. 'Every man a king' is the motto of a fool's paradise and the catch­phrase of political ti-umpery. There is in society a natural diversity of gifts and function, and where there is distinction of ability, there will be distinction of reward. The coalescing of sundiy groups composes the pat­tern of communal li\-ing; and com­munal living is not an artificial result produced by one class for its own ad­vantage but the inevitable expression of man's social character. 
Accordingly, we believe economic factors possess social as well as in­dividual significance. Men are not free to ignore these; nor have we the power by legislative fiat to abolish them. We shall maintain, then, that ownership is a right derived from na­ture, not fi'om law, and its use or mis­use cannot destroy, or cause to be forfeited, the right itself. Wealth in­vested in capital should have a return but the return should be related to the economy of the nation current at the period of the deposition. Income should be as thermal as the discount rate. A fixed interest or a fixed wage for profit, determined over any but a short period is obviously unsocial since economic conditions will have altered before the loan or the con­tract has e-xpired. Contracts for in­terest or labor once out-moded de­stroy the equilibrium of the economic field in which the incidence of their fulfillment occurs. The fixed element in economics should be the equation of justice; the variable element is price. 
Like ownership and its rewards labor, too, has its social obligations. Labor must attain its indiridual rights without infringement of the common good. It is false that the worth of labor is the worth of its net result; false that labor exercised on the prop­erty of another begets ownership; false even that all profits not needed for repair and replacement belong to the workingman. To assert the con­trarj' is to lose sight of the social as­pect of labor and the right of owner­ship. But labor does create a right to profit-sharing — a right that is again individual and social. It is the right of labor to share in profits on the basis of a living wage. If capital does not pay this, social justice de­mands that employment be prohib­ited. But if employers cannot pay this because of unfair competition or unethical imposition of taxes, then the controlling laws of the State should be abrogated. 
Such considerations will form the basis of our principled effort to ob­tain the peace of economic security within our own country. 
But for the assurance of that larger peace which depends not on us but on the nations of the world, we must await a more enlightened inter­nationalism. In international affairs, the Darwinian theory seems still to persist though long since dispossessed from its native habitat in Biology. The sur\-ival of the fittest appears to be the law of national existence and actions which, in the domestic am­bient, would be corrected by police power, are glorified and given the support of armies in the international arena. When will we learn to apply to nations the same principles of mo­ralitj' we apply to individuals? When will we leara that nations, as well as men, are created equal before the law? Until we do, all nations, the great as well as the small, are in jeopardy; the great may repel inva­sion, they have yet to succeed in re­pelling War. The present competi­tion for mathematical equality is a trepidating ei-idence of mutual dis­trust and a proof of reliance in strength for the enforcement of claims. We must inveigh against and 
•deplore the conditions which warrant this cynicism of preparedness. And I venture to propose that, of these con­ditions, the most pernicious is the prevailing concept of the State as a political and economic, rather than a moral, entity. When Louis Quatorze said, "I am the State," he at least made the State a responsible person. Today, State absolutism is impersonal and neuter. Unless this is corrected, the CoTigress of nations will continue to be regulated by a diplomatic, rather than a moral, code; govern­ments will be recognized as great or small; the voice of power, instead of truth, will continue to be the decisive voice; and the freedom of little na­tions will depend on their ability to remain unnoticed or undesirable. 
Against the aggression of arms, the Philippines will have no fortress on land or sea. Competitive armament would be a tragic error. The only defense of the Philippines will be its spirit—its articulated cultural unity which will give it protection in the indestructible integration of charac­ter. If war comes, or fresh conquest from whatever source, we shall op­pose it to the death; but we shall oppose it alone. We shall not ask 
(Please turn to Page 20) 

GEORGE CARDINAL MUNDELEIN, D.D. "The Latins had an adase, 'verba docent, exempla trahunt. 
Cardinal Mundelein's Introductory Address 
characterizes President as a Man of Indomitable Courage, Overcoming Great Handicaps to Bring Order out of Chaos 
It is now nearly fifteen years since my last visit to Notre Dame. I used to come frequently in its days of struggle and poverty, but now that success and prosperity have come to the university, I feel it has an abun­dance of friends. But that I should have come at this time and this sea­son surely indicates that this must be an all-important occasion and a weighty reason for my coming. And so it is. I have come to join with Notre Dame in its welcome to the Chief Executive of our nation. And while I speak for myself, yet in a way I act too as your spokesman, on be­half of the faculty and student-body on this occasion in our endeavor to make the President feel that he has really come into the home of his friends. We are not in politics, nei­ther the Church nor I; no individual Cardinal, Bishop or priest, no organ­ization of laymen or Catholic news­paper has the right to speak for the 
twenty million Catholics in this coun­try in matters of politics; only the Bishops of the Country together, in conference or in council, and they have not done so, and so we do not wish our words to be interpreted in that sense. Nor have I any intention of defending the Rooseveltian policies; the President is perfectly well able to do that himself and he needs no outside help. 
But—I have known the President quite intimately, better than many who meet him oftener and deal with him officially. My relations with him were of a personal character. I had no axe to grind, no favors to seek, and so he was always able to express himself freely without fear of mis­interpretation or breach of confi­dence. It is at such times one is able to better gauge a man's char­acter, to look down into his verj' soul, to read more clearly the purposes that 
motivate his actions. I have talked to men who were his real friends, men who would have laid down their lives for him, and unconsciously they painted for me a picture of the man that he is. And as a result I have learned to admire in him, more than anything else, his indomitable fight­ing courage, the courage that enabled him to overcome a great physical handicap that would have laid low almost any other man; the courage that helped him fight his way and come to the very top with clean hands; the courage that enabled him to bring order and renewed confi­dence out of chaos at the very be­ginning of his administration; the courage that caused him to set aside the traditions of his class, the friend­ships of his youth, the pressure of the money-power, to come to the aid of 
the forgotten man in the more equal distribution of wealth. We who know­how the poor must live, we whose duty it is to lighten their burdens and help solve their problems as much as we can, we have long since felt that the great swollen fortunes of yesterday and today must soon be a thing of the past, that the burden of taxation must soon be shifted to be more equally borne by those who have the inherited wealth and plenti­ful income to enable them to do so. I can only repeat again in public what I said to the President in private when he spoke of his purpose to levy a more equable tax on great wealth and large incomes, as he has, "it is something that should have been done 
long ago, but oh, it will take a lot of courage to do so, and to carry it through." 
I believe this visit today of our distinguished guest to Notre Dame is timely and propitious. Here are sev­ei-al thousand young men on the threshold of their great adventure. 
They are facing the coming struggle with hope high in their hearts and the future bright and promising to their eyes. They are impatient to reach the goal of success as quickly as they can. They already see themselves rich and famous in but a few years from now. And yet we, who are about to lay down the burden they are preparing to take up, who have no other light to guide us than the lamp of experience of the past, we can see more clearly into the future than they; we know that the days of the get rich quick are over, that many of them must endure poverty and want unless they are prepared to meet many an obstacle, to overcome hardship with great perseverance, to hold their faith high, their courage 
fast and unshaken. 
The old Latins had an adage "verba docent, exempla trahunt." Students of Notre Dame, you are fortunate in having for your President at this time a man who has given us all an out­standing example in his life of indom­itable persevering courage, who has striven to the best of his strength and ability to benefit his fellow man, who has been every bit as brave a soldier as any who fell on the battle­field. 
As the highest ranking Roman Catholic ecclesiastic west of the Alle­ghany mountains, and westward past China, Japan and the Philippine Is­lands, as a native American of four generations and the grandson of one of the finest soldiers to shed his blood for the Union, but more than all, as a warm personal friend and admirer, I have the great pleasure of welcoming to this midwestem seat of Christian culture and education its most recent alumnus, the 31st President of these UnitedStates, Franklin Delano Roosevelt. 
FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT, LL.D. . . . i trust that I may be in your prayers.' 
Address of the President of the United States 
Delivered at the Special Convocation after Reception of Honorary Degree Conferred by the University of Notre Dame 
In acknowledging the honor which through the granting of this degree the University of Notre Dame con­fers upon me, I wish first personally to thank your president, the very Reverend John F. O'Hara and all the members of your faculty. I deeply appreciate the honor and the accom­panying citation. 
One in public life learns that per­sonally he can never be worthy of the honors that come to him as an official of the United States. But it is equal­ly true that I am most happy to be so honored. The honor places upon me an additional obligation to try to live up to the citation—both for the sake of my country and as a new alumnus of the University of Notre Dame. I am glad to take part in this special convocation called to honor the new commonwealth of the Philippines. 
Almost 40 years ago the United States took over the sovereignty of the Philippine Islands. The acceptance of sovereignty was but an obligation to serve the people of the Philippines until the day they might themselves be independent and take their own place among the nations of the world. 
We are here to welcome the com­monwealth. I consider it one of the happiest events of my office as Pres­ident of the United States to have signed in the name of the United States the instrument which will give national freedom to the Philippine people. 
The time is not given me to recite the history of those 40 years. That history reveals one of the most ex­traordinaiy examples of national co­operation, national adjustment and national independence the world has ever witnessed. It is a tribute to the genius of the Philippine people. Sub­ject to the government of a countrj' other than their own, they generously adjusted themselves to conditions often not to their liking; they pa­tiently waited; they forfeited none of that freedom which is natively theirs as a people, and which they have so definitely expressed with due regard for fundamental human rights in their new constitution. 
We have a clear right also to con­gratulate ourselves as a people be­cause in the long run we have chosen the right course with respect to the Philippine Islands. Through our pow­er we have not sought our own. Through our power we have sought to benefit others. 
That both nations kept to the pol­icy leading to this most happy result is due to the fact that both nations have the deepest respect for the in­alienable rights of man. Those rights were specifically championed more than a century and a half ago in our own Declaration of Independence. Those same rights are championed in the new constitution of the Philippine commonwealth. 
There can be no true national life either within a nation itself or be­tween that nation and other nations unless there be the specific acknowl­edgement of, and the support of or­ganic law to, the rights of man. Su­preme among these rights we, and now the Philippine commonwealth, hold to be the rights of freedom, of education and freedom of religious v.-orship. 
This university from which we send our welcome to the new common­wealth exemplifies the principles of which I speak. Through the history of this great middle west—its first explorers and first missionaries—Jol­iet, Marquette, De La Salle, Hennepin —its lone eagle. Father Badin, who is buried here, its apostolic Father Sorin, founder of Notre Dame univer­sity, its zealous missionaries of other faiths, its pioneers of varied nation­alities, all have contributed to the up­building of our country because all have subscribed to those fundamental principles of freedom, freedom of ed­ucation, freedom of worship. 
Long ago, George Mason in the Virginia Declaration of Eights voiced what has become one of the deepest convictions of the American people: "Religion, or the duty which we owe to our Creator, and the manner of discharging it, can be directed only by reason and conviction, not by force or violence, and therefore all men are equally entitled to the free exercise of religion according to the dictates of conscience." 
In the conflict of policies and of political systems which the world to­day witnesses, the United States has held for its own guidance and for the guidance of other nations if they will accept it, this great torch of lib­erty of human thought, liberty of human conscience. We will never lower it. We will never permit, if we can help it, the light to grow dim. Rather through every means legitimately within our power and our office, we will seek to increase that light, that its rays may extend far­ther; that its glory may be seen even from afar. 
Every indication of the sanctity of these rights at home; every prayer that other nations may accept them, is an indication of how virile, how living they are in the hearts of every true American. 
Of their own initiative, by their own appreciation, the Philippine com­monwealth has now also championed them before the world. Through the favor of divine providence may they be blessed as a people ^vlth prosper­ity. May they grow in grace through their own constitution to the peace and well' being of the whole world. 
And so let me say as I leave you that I am happy to be here today, that I am proud of the great distinc­tion which you have conferred upon me. And may I tell you that I was more touched than by anything else by that word of the President of Notre Dame when he said I will he in your prayers. I appreciate that and I trust that I may be in your prayers. 
The CardinaFs Blessing 
Benedictio Dei omnipotentis, Pa * tris, et Fi * lii, et Spiritus * Sancti descendat super vos, et nianeat semper. Amen. 
May the blessing of Almighty God, Fa * ther, Son 
* and Holy ® Ghost descend upon you, and remain with you forever. Amen. 
THE VICTORY MARCH 

Rally, Sons of Noore Dame, We will fight in every game 
Sing Her glory and sound Her fame; Strong of heart and true to Her name. Raise Her gold and blue We will ne'er forget her And cheer with voices true And we'll cheer Her ever 
Rah! Rah! for Notre Dame— Loyal to Notre Dame 
CHORUS 

Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame, ' 
Wake up the echoes cheering Her name. Send the volley cheer on high Shake down the thunder from the sky. 
What though the odds be great or small Old Notre Dame will win over all, y While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory. 
Prominent Guests Attend The Gonvocation 
f It is not possible to list the several thousand friends of Notre Dame who were present }• in the University Gymnasium for the Convocation. But an indication of the caliber of the I' crowd is gained from the above list of dignitaries appearing in the press on that occasion. 
T 
CATHOLIC HIERARCHY 

His Eminence George Cardinal Mundelein, Archbishop of 
Chicago Most Rev. John F. Noll, of Fort Wayne, Indiana Most Rev. John M. Gannon, of Erie, Pennsylvania Most Rev. Edward F. Hoban, of Rocfcford, Illinois Most Rev. Karl J. Alter, of Toledo, Ohio Most Rev. Joseph C. Ritter, of Indianapolis, Indiana Most Rev. Francis X. Ford, M. M., Kaying, China 
CLERGV 

The ALUMNUS cannot attempt to list the many monsignori and clergy who accepted the University's invitation to attend the Convo­cation. They formed en important, sizeable and welcome part of the colorful assembly honoring the new Commonwealth. 
PRESIDENT'S PARTY 

Hon. James A. Farley, Postmaster General Hon. Ambrose O'Connell, Executive Assistant to Postmaster Hon. W. Forbes Morgan, Deputy Governor Farm Credit Hon. Frank C. Walker Hon. Henry Homer, Governor of Illinois Hon. E. J. Kelly, Mayor of Chicago 
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS 

Hon. James McAndrews, Ninth District, Illinois Hon. Adolph J. Sabath, Fifth District Illinois Hon. Raymond J. Cannon, Fourth District, Wisconsin.. Hon. Samuel B. Pettengill, Third District Indiana '\ ' Hon. William T. Schulte, First District, Indiana Hon. James I. Farley, Fourth District, Indiana Hon. R. S. McKeough, Second District, Illinois 
 —Ed. 

REPRESENTATIVES OF FOREIGN NATIONS 
Laszlo Medgyesy, Hungarian Consul at Chicago 
A. de Saboia, Brazilian Consul at Chicago Daniel McGrath, Irish Consul at Chicago Or. M. Carosi, lalian Consul at Chicago Michael F. Girten, Austrian Consul at Chicago General Robert T. K. Kah, Chinese Consul at Chicago Georges Roy, Archivist, Province of Quebec August Rontoux, Latvian Consul at Chicago Harold E. Rucavado, Consul of Republic of Costa Rica at 
Chicago 

REPRESENTATIVES OF UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES 
Very Rev. A. H. Poetker, S.J., President, University of Detroit, Detroit, Mich. Dr. E. C. Elliott, President, Purdue University Mother M. Benedicta, President, Immaculate Conception Con­vent, Peoria,' Illinois 
Dr. Emil Leffler, President, Battle Creek College, Battle Creel^ Michigan 
Sister M. Catherine, Superior, Ursuline Convent of Sacred 
Heart, Toledo, Ohio Dr. Jerome Gregory Kerwin, University of Chicago Dr. S. C. Yoder, President, Goshen College, Goshen, Indiana Sister M. Benita, President, Rosary College River ForesJ^ III. 
Dr. Edward E. Rail, President, North Central College of Napervill^ Illinois 
Sister M. Madeleva, President, St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Lid. 
Very Rev. E. V. Cardinal, C.S.V., President, St Viator Col­lege, Bourbonnais, Illinois 
NOTRE DAME ALUMNI CLUBS REPRESENTED ' 
Berrien County, Calumet District, Chicago^ .Cleveland,, Detroit, EKstrict of Columbia, Eastern Indiana, Fort Wayn^ Grand Rapids, Indianapolis, Joliet, Laport^ Green' Bay, New Jer­sey, New York Gty, Peoria, Rhode Island, St. Joseph Valley, Tri-Qties, Women's Qub. 
NO MAS AMOR-(No Other Love) 
No mas amor que el tuyo, O Corazon Divino. 
No other love than thine, O Heart Divine. 
El pueblo Filipino Te da su corazon. 
The Philippine people g^ve Thee their heart. 
En templos'y en hogares Te invoque nuestra lengua. 
In temples and homes our tongue invokes Thee. 
Tu reinaras sin mengua, d'Aparri hasta Jolo. Thou wilt reign with honor (without disgrace) from Aparri to Jolo. 
Ha tiempo que esperamos Tu imperio en el Oriente. 
We have been waiting Your rule in the East. 
La Fe de FiUpinas es como el sol ardiente. 
The Faith of the Philippines is ardent as the sun, 
Como la roca firme, immensa como el mar. Firm as the rock, unbounded as the sea. 
La iniquidad non puede ser de estas islas duena. Evil cannot be master of these isles. 
Que izada en nuestros monies Tu celestial ensena. For raised on our mountains your heavenly standards. 
Las puertas del infiemo No prevaleceran. The gates of hell will not prevail. 
•I iiv u 
'**«--. ' -.

'.-- -w;^,^. * '^x 
^*-«* 
Part of Huse Assembly Which Saw President Roosevelt Honored 
A GOOD DAY'S WORK 
Last week the University of Notre Dame gave thought to the recendy established commonwealth of the Philippines. It was a latg^ timely, significant thought. The President of the United States and scores of men in public life represented our Government at a special convocation honoring the new Repub­lic; Cardinal Archbishop Mundelein of Chicago, Bishop Noll, the University's Ordinary, bishops and prelates of the Lakes' region represented the Catholic Church in the United States; Mr. Carlos Peiia Romulo spoke for the new nation. Seven thousand persons present in the University gymnasium wit­nessed the exercises; millions here and in other countries heard them over the radio. Father John O'Hara, President of the University, welcomed churchmen and statesmen in felicitous speech, and conferred honorary degrees on President Roosevelt and Mr. Romulo. Cardinal Mundelein presented the Chief Executive in touching paragraphs; Mr. Romulo in clear, finished language expounded a vibrant thesis on the sovereignty of the people of a republic as against predatory, tyrannical rule by a minority. President Roosevelt reasserted the American doc­trine of freedom of religion without hindrance or penalization —a charter of rights among the people of the United States. 
It was all — actors, audience, setting — an expression of touching beauty. Only it was much more. It was a stirring welcome to the new Ship of State of the Philippine Islands at the first port-of-call by the Government of the United States and by the Catholic Church within the United States. The Ave Maria congratulates President O'Hara and his counsellors on their foresight in beckoning the maiden ship into harbor for welcome and Godspeed. The people of the Philippines will be touched by the presence at Notre Dame of the first man of a nation that gave them a full, peaceful freedom, of prelates and brethren of their own Faith that came to honor them. The University of Notre Dame anticipated an atheistic and a com­munistic Hail and Farewell by a not remote enemy. The people of the Philippines will remember this first, holy, beauti­ful reception of a sacrament of friendship by the nation that gave them liberty, by the Church that gave them Faith. Yes, President O'Hara and his Faculty did a good day's work on December Ninth.—The Ave Maria 
. 

Special Committees in Charge of Convocation 
Once more, die work of die several committees concerned with the details of the Oinvocation defies adequate recognition in print. Each sub-committee involves a large personnel of unofficial but most effective aid. 
The general committee appointed by Father O'Hara to supervise the Convocation consisted of the Rev. Hugh O'Don­nell, CS.C , chairman; Rev, J. L. Carrico, Rev. John Farley, Rev. B. J. Ill,- Rev. Eugene Burke, Rev. William Carey, Rev. George Holderith, and Rev. Francis Boland; and Messrs. Ber­nard Voll, Frauds Jones, Arthur Haley, E. F. Connolly, Robert Riordan, Thomas Barry, and James E. Armstrong. 
Invitations and programs were handled by a sub-committee headed by Father Carrico. 
Father Boland handled the committee charged with the details of the Gynmasium — decorating, seating, ushers, etc. Father Holderith was a member of this committee and in spedai command of the stage and decorations. Mr. Haley, ako a member of this committee, handled the preparation and distribution of tickets. 
Mr. Barry, assisted by William R. Dooley, was in charge of publidty. 
Rev. William Carey, assisted by Francis Jones, president of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, headed the transportation committee. 
Mr. Bernard Voll, president of the Alumni Assodation, headed the Civic Relations committee, and was ably assisted, in addition to the dvic cooperation listed elsewhere, by Mr. 
E. M. Morris, '06, as chairman of the dvic invitation and ticket committee. 
Mr. E. F. Connolly, manager of the University Dining Halls, was in charge of the several reception lunches following the Convocation. 
Robert B. Riordan, r^istrar of the University, captain of field artillery in the reserve officers, acted as liaison officer with the President's party and the various military police units, assisted by Robert McAuIiffe. 
Rev. Eugene Burke was chairman of the general reception committee which was appointed to meet the various dignitaries of the day. The committee was: 
Rev. John F. O'Hara, CS.C , and Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, CS.C, ex offido. 
Rev. Eugene P. Burke, CS.C, Chairman; Rev. Bernard 
J. Ill, CS.C, Rev. William Bolger, C.S.C, Rev. Patridc J. Carroll, CS.C , Rev. George Marr, CS.C , Rev. Lawrence Broughal, C.S.C. 
Prof. Edward Maurus, Dean T. Bowyer Campbell, Dean Thomas F. Konop, Dean James E. McCarthy, Prof. Qarence Manion, Prof. Pedro A. de Landero, Mr. Frank W. Lloyd, Dr. James E. McMeel. 
Hon. Samuel B. Pettengill, Mr. Bernard J. Voll, Mr. Frank 
E. Hering, Mr. Miles W. O'Brien, Mr. E. M. Morris, Hon. George W. Freyermuth, Mr. Paul G. Hoffman, Mr. Vincent Bendix, Mr. M. Edward Doran. 
ADDRESS BY REVEREND JOHN F. O'HARA, CS.C. 
(Continued from Page 7) 
you, Mr. President, to the family of Notre Dame. To the respectful esteem which is your due as pur Chief Executive, we add the affection that is bom of admiration for the courage with which you took charge of this country in the darkest hour it has known since the Civil War. And we do not forget that you began your administration with prayer. You share in our prayers, our family prayers. In a democracy there is al­ways room for honest difference of opinion as to the means that are em­ployed to cure a .specific ailment of the body politic; but on fundamental principles there is no room for com­promise if a man is to be true to his conscience. In the studied conviction 
that you have been a consdentious ruler we welcome you, Mr. President, into the ranks of the alumni of the University of Notre Dame. 
ADDRESS BY CARLOS P. ROMULO 
(Continued from Page II) 
the shedding of another's blood to 
spare our own. We shall not make 
the Philippines the Serajevo of an­
other world Armageddon. Let no one 
fear it. To the Philippines, the United 
States has been a generous benefac­
tor; a loyal and true friend; and if, 
Mr. President, we can honor that debt 

in no other way, we can pay with our ­lives, if need be, lest any act of ours should he a prelude to the weeping of American mothers for their dead. We are a poor nation but not, I hope, vrithout valor and gratitude. 
We have requested independence; The American people have granted it. So let it be; and may it prove a blessing for both and a pledge of friendship through the years that are to come. We shall go forward bul­warked with abiding faith in God; confident of the particular good-will of the United States and the amity of our Far Eastern neighbors; and we shall take our place glorying in our freedom, with restrained courage, am­bitious of peace, with malice toward none and with charity toward all. 
We thank you, Mr. President, Prel­ates, the Faculty of Notre Dame, for the honor you have, this day, con­ferred upon us and we bring to each and all the expression of high regard and cordial esteem from the Honor­able Manuel Quezon, President of the Philippine Commonwealth. 








