The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Volume 33 ;No.^5 September, 1955 " t 

CLUB AND CLASS FOOTBALL RALLIES 
MIAMI—Rally, Thunday, Oct. 6, 7:30 p.m., Hotel Shelborne, Miami Beach. Reception and dance, Saturday, Oct. 8, 8 p.m., $2 per person. Hotel Shelborne. 
O 
NAVY—Class of 1925 will hold reunion in Golfers Lounge of Morris Inn, tnimedi­ately following game, Oct. 29. Class members, families, fnends invited. O 
PENNSYLVAXIA—Football party, Friday, Nov. 4, 9:00 p.m.. Hotel Wanvick, Philadelphia. Post-game cocktail party, Saturday, Nov. 5, 5:00 p.m.. Hotel. Warwick, admission $1 per person for each affair. • 
SOUTHERN CAL—Rally, Friday, Nov. 25, 
8:00 p.m., Biltmore Hotel, Los An­geles, Danny Thomas will be m/c, en­tertainment stars George Reiley and I*cgg>* King, Tcrrj- Brennan and staff, $3 per person. Write Gene Calhoun, 704 So. Spring St., Los Angeles, for rcser\-ations. 

Rockne Plaque ill L. i%. Coliseum 
K\LTE RTifKN 
A bronze plaque of Knute Rockne,. by Joseph Nicolosi, internationally-famed sculptor, has been placed in the Los Angeles Coliseum. The plaque was 
''*'made possible by contributions from 26 of Rockne's classmates and friends and bv the Coliseum Commission. 

Father Hesburgh Named to Another Three-Year Term 
Obediences Announced at Provincial Chapter 
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., was re-appointed to another three-year term as president of Notre Dame at the conclusion of a triennial Provincial Chapter held on campus during the summer. 
Ann ouncement of obediences an d appoint­ments of Holy Cross priests was made by Father Hesburgh 

the Rev. Theo­dore J. Mehling, C.S.C, provincial. There were no changes of priest-per­sonnel holding major positions at the University. 
Rev. Howard J. Kenna, C.S.C, for­mer ND vice-president as well as as­sistant superior general of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross, was named presi­dent of the University of Portland. Father Kenna has been president of Holy Cross College, W'ashington, D. C , since 1952. He will be succeeded by Rev. Bernard McAvoy, C.S.C, who has been serving as superior of Moreau Seminar)'. Rev. Paul B. Rankin, C.S.C, replaces Father McAvoy at Moreau. 
Father Hesburgh became president of Notre Dame at the age of 35 in June, 1952, succeeding the-Rev. John 
J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, in whose ad­ministration he had served for three years as executive vice president. Edu­cator, administrator and, above all, a devout priest. Father Hesburgh guides the academic development and phys­ical expansion of Notre' Dame which now has the largest enrollment in its history. 
Since Father Hesburgh's elevation to the presidency, Notre Dame has erected t\vo major academic buildings, t\vo student residence halls, a student center and a new bookstore. \VNDU­

- TV, a commercial television station with studios on the campus, began operations this siunmer. 
A major academic development of 

Father Hesburgh's administration has 
been the establishment of a new cur­
riculum in the University's College of 
Arts and Letters. Curricular changes 
are also expected to result from self-
studies currently imderway in the Col­
leges of Commerce and Engineering. 
Under Notre Dame's Faculty Devel­

opment PrognSm a number of eminent 
scholars have been added to the fac­
ulty. With support from American cor­
porations the University plans to aug­
ment and strengthen its faculty with 45 
internationally recognized scholars. . 
In addition to his duties at Notre 

Dame, Father Hesbiu:gh holds several 
responsible posts in the educational 
world. In June, 1954, President Eisen­
hower appointed him to a six-year 
term on the National Science Board. 
By presidential appointment Father 
Hesburgh also is a member of the 
Board of Visitors of the United States 
Naval Academy. He is also a board 
member of the Freedoms Foundation, 
the Nutrition Foundation, the Insti­
tute of International Education and 
the Foundation for Religious Action in 
the Social and Civic Order. 
As a member of the Ford Motor Company and General Motors Schol­arship Boards, Father Hesburgh assists in the selection of recipients of college scholarships on a nationwide basis. 

Arch Ward Dies of Heart Attack 
Arcli Ward, '21, Sports Editor of the Chicago Tribune and one of Notre Dame's most prominent alumni, died of an apparent heart attack on July 8, in his Chicago apartment.. Most Rev­erend Bernard J. Shell was celebrant of the funeral Mass in Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church and the ser­mon was preached by the Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
Interview With Pope 
Arch Ward had an illustrious and 
brilliant career which included the fol­
lowing: writer, editor, speaker, tele­
vision and radio commentator and 
above all, one of die world's outstand­
ing sports promoters. He conducted a 
daily sports column, "Wake of the 
News," which was a favorite of thou­
sands of readers. 
His bylined stories were filed from 
not only all of the principal sports 
arenas in this country, but also from 
such far-flung places as Rome, where 
he was the first reporter granted a post­
election interview with Pope Pius XII, 
and from Italy, England, Ireland, 
France and Scotland on Golden Gloves 
Boxing tours. He was heard on a 
coast-to-coast weekly radio program 
with Harr}' Wismer over the Mutual 
Broadcasting System, and also on the 
WGN-TV "Sports Page" each Mon­.day night for the past three years. 
Athletic Publicity Director 
AVhen the late Knute Rockne was named Head Football Coach at Notre Dame, Gus Dorais suggested to him that Arch Ward be appointed Athletic Publicity Director. Rockne agreed and AVard functioned in that capacity as an undergraduate during 1919 to 1921 —the first position of its type at N.D. He had a deep interest in all Notre Dame activities. Mr. Ward ser\'ed as Chairman of the Notre Dame Foun­dation Committee in Chicago for five years and received the club's 'Man-of­the-Year' award. He was a personal friend of all Notre Dame head grid coaches, from the time of Rockne to ' the appointment of Terr)' Brennan. 
Many honors were given to. him in the past few years. He received hon­orary law degrees from Notre Dame 
ARCH WARD 
and from Loras College. Mr. Ward was a recipient of the papal honor, membership in the Knights of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem — an award which has been bestowed on only 200 Americans. 
Originated All-Star Football Game 
His achievements for which he will probably be best remembered are the creation of the All-Star Baseball Game in 1933 and the All-Star Football Game in 1934; the development of the Golden .Gloves Bo.xing tournament: the formation of the Ail-American Football Conference; and for the mil­lions of dollars which, through the Chicago Tribune, have been allocated to Protestant, Catholic and Jewish or­ganizations, from proceeds of sports events. 
Mr. \Vard is survived by his widow, the former Helen Carey, of Chicago, a son, Thomas and two grandchildren, Thomas A. Ward and Marybeth Ward. A daughter, Ruth, died 15 years ago, at the age of 17. He was buried in All Saints Cemetery in Chicago. 

Fall Semester Will Start on Sept. 22nd 
Although classes for Notre Dame's 114th academic year will begin on September 22, the formal opening of school is to Be observed the following Sunday with a Solemn High Mass in Sacred Heart Church and a sermon bv the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
C.S.C. The Mass will be preceded by a colorful academic procession of more than 500 faculty members from the Main Building to the Church. 

On September 19-22, freshmen will be conducted through an orienta­tion program by the Blue Circle prior to the registration of upperclassmen. Various administration officials and deans of the colleges will speak to first-year men at special sessions. Students will return to the campus to find threeV new buildings completed during the past summer. They include: Pangbom Residence Hall, Hammes Shopping Center and AVfJDU-TV Station. An­other structure, a $75,000 sculpture studio, will be finished in the near fu­ture and occupied by Professor Ivan Mestrovic. 

169 Graduated 
>s 


at Notre Dame 

Dr. William O. Shanahan, professor of liistor)' at Notre Dame and a mem­ber of the Committee on International Relations, delivered the summer com­mencement address on August 3, to 169 graduates. Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, vice-president of academic af­fairs, presided at the exercises which were held in the campus Drill Hall. 
Rev. Cletus Bachofer, C.S.C, fac-T ulty member, preached the baccalau­reate sermon at a Solemn High Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Celebrant of the Mass was Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, executive vice-president. More than a third of those receiving gradu­ate and undergraduate degrees were nuns. 
Shanahan told the group that mod­em man's intellectual life is threatened by the absence of leisure. "Our times are peculiarly 'leisure-less'," he said; "• and "despite our technology, despite our gadgets, leisure is in short supply. It is the most scarce commodity in the worid." 
Father Bachofer reminded the stu­dents that they should grow intellectu­ally and spiritually at the same time. "You who have been educated' in this great Catholic university," he said, "should strive always for intellectual excellence in Christ's name. Your edu- , i cation at Notre Dame has had really only one purpose i to let Christ shine through you more brilliantly." 
Notre Dame Alumnus 


Eighteen Vets Return for Opening of Fall Practice 
Total of 77 Candidates 

Seventy-seven candidates reported for the opening of fall football drills at Notre Dame when Coach Terr)' Brennan conducted his initial practice 
^6n Sept. 1. 
Eight regulars and a total of 18 monogram men will be missing from the team that won nine and lost one in 1954. Seventeen who earned mono­grams last year and one from 1950 will be returning. The three 1954 regulars coming back are: Captain Ray Lemek, guard: Don Schaefer, fullback; and Jimmy Morse, halfback. However, Lemek remains a question mark be­cause of a knee injur)' sustained in the 
^"tie.\t-to-iast game, a year ago against Southern Cal. Lemek is the only re­turnee from what was virtually an "iron man" line. And it is in the line that Brennan is expected to encounter most of his rebuilding problems. 

on Fighting Irish Squad 
Two sessions a day will be held un­til the start of registration for classes on Monday, Sept. 19. 
This will be the 67th Notre Dame gridiron campaign, and the second of the Terry Brennan era. In 66 previous seasons the Irish have won 424 games, lost 86, and tied 34. 
Returning monogram men from 1954 include: Gene Kapish and Bob Scannell, ends; Wayne Edmonds, George Nicula and Gene Martell, tackles; Lemek and Pat Bisceglia, guards; Jim Mense and Lou Loncaric, centers; Paul Homung, quarterback; Jim Morse, Paul Reynolds, Dick Fitz­gerald, Sherrill Sipes and Dean Stu­der, halfbacks; Don Schaefer and Nick Raich, fullbacks. Frank Epstein, guard; who received a monogram. in 1950 before joining the Marines, is another returning lineman. 
Coach Brennan talks over stratei^ with Captain Ray Leniak, veteran lineman. 

Televise 3 Games On Closed Circuit 
Closed circuit telecasts of three No­ 
tre Dame football games will be made  
this Fall. Arrangements have been  
completed with the Sheraton Hotels to  
project the Miami, Navy and Iowa  
games on the Sheraton's large screen  
television equipment in thirteen cities  
where a substantial number of Notre  
Dame alumni reside.  
According to Rev.Edmund P.Joyce,  
C.S.C.,- executive, vice-president, who  
made the announcement, the network  
will consist of New York City, Chi­ 
cago, Boston, Baltimore, Washington,  i  
D. C , Rochester, St. Louis, Cleveland,  
Cincinnati, Detroit, Philadelphia,  :  
Providence and Indianapolis.  
Father Joyce stated, "this is an e.x- 
tremely expensive operation and we  ;  
will probably have to charge $4 per  :  
ticket in order to meet expenses. Heavy  
costs are involved which include an  
average $1,400 telephone company  
line charge for each hotel per game.  
The University is underwriting this  
new experiment and if any profits do  
materialize, they will be turned over  
to the Notre Dame Foundation for the  
Faculty Development Fund." He also  
said, "It is our hope that this closed  
circuit program will be a partial an­ 
swer to the problem of bringing tele­ 
casts of our key games to our far-flung  
alumni group."  
Fr. Hager Appointed  
Head of Music Dept.  
Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C, has been  
appointed head of the Department of  
Music at Notre Dame, succeeding  
Daniel H. Pedtke, who relinquished  
the administrative post to devote more  
time to teaching and directing the  
famed Notre Dame Glee Club.  
Father Hager, composer of several  
selections for piano, string quartette  
and band, has been a Notre -Dame  
faculty member since 1941. From 1939  
to 1947 he was director of the Moreau  
Seminary Choir at Notre Dame. A  
native of Plymouth. Indiana, Father  
Hager has received master's degrees  
from Notre Dame and DePaul Univer­ 
sity, Chicago. He was ordained a  
priest in the Congregation of Holy  
Cross on June 24, 1939.  

September, 1955 
Baseball star Jimmy Foxx poses with youngsters who received certificates as members of the All-Florida Catholic High School nine. Winners were selected by the Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami. 



Miami Alumni Club Presents Awards to All-Florida Teams 
The Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami selected All-Florida Catholic high school major sports teams during the past year in football, basketball and baseball. Those winning baseball awards were recently honored at a banquet which featured Jimmy Fo.\.\, famed slugger and member of base­ball's Hall of Fame. 
In addition to the baseball team, all-star squads were picked earlier in 

ALUMNUS Magazine 
Vol. 33, No. 5 September, 1955 Notre Dame, Ind. 
the schoolyear for football and basket­ball. Edward W. Krause, ND athletic director, made the football presenta­tions while Ed Kelly, club president, awarded the basketball honors. 
The All-Florida Catholic awards were originated in order to bring ad­ditional recognition to the state's Cath­olic high school athletes. In Florida there are 14 parochial high schools which seldom receive the publicity that the larger pubUc schools are ac­corded. -^ 

All-star teams are based on nomina­tions made by the school coaches with final selection being decided by an ND club committee. Sometimes they are made on a relative basis as the major­ity of Catholic schools do not compete against one another. 
Each player chosen for the squad receives a framed certificate. Awards are mailed to the local Notre Dame Club or Knisrhts of Columbus Council for students outside of the Miami area^ The Club also names a mythical state Catholic champion for each sport as well as a "coach of the year." 
6M Scholarship Winners 


Will Enter Class of '59 

Four young men have been awarded scholarships at Notre Dame provided by the General Motors Corporation and will enter the freshman class this' fall. 
The GM scholarship winners are Charles A. Bowen, Jr., Attleboro, Mass.; Phillips J. Gibson, Rochester, 
N. Y.; James Joseph Short, Philadel­phia, Pa.; and John J. Uebbing, Chi­cago, 111. 
According to Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., Director of Student Aid and secretary of the Scholarship Commit­tee, General Motors has established 
•JL

four scholarships at Notre Dame on; the basis of one for every 20 Notre Dame alumni employed by GM. The maximum available at any college or university is five, he said. In addition. General Motors provides 100 scholar­ships in a national competition with die recipients selecting the school of their choice. 
Entered as Second Class matter October 1, 1939, at the Post Offic^' Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of August 24, 1912. 

Return postage guaranteed 



