The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
c 
z 

NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
VOL. 49, NO. 3 JUNE, 1971 
James D. Cooncy '59 £xECUTi\'£ DIRECTOR ALOMNI ASSOCIATION' EDITOR 
Timothy J. Hughes '61 MANAGING EDITOR Geoigc A. Schcucr '28 
CHIEF COPV EDITGR Bill Mitchell *71 EDITORIAI. ASSISTANT 
M. Bruce Harlan *49 CHIEF PHOTOCRAPHES 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFFICERS 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 HONORARY PRESIDENT Robert A. Erkins '45 ftlESIDENT John T. Alassman '56 VICE-PRESIDENT, ADMINISTRATI\-E AFFAIRS 
Frank L. McGinn '52 VICE-PRESIDENT, ALOSINI AFFAIRS Robert L. McGoldrick '56 VICE-PRESIDENT, STUDENT AFFAIRS Leonard H. Tosc '37 VICE-PRESIDENT, ACADEMIC AFFAIRS James D. Cooncy '59 ExECUTi\x DIRECTOR Michael E. Jordan '68 ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 
DIRECTORS TO 1972 
Robert A. Ertins '45, P.O. Box 546, Buhl, Idaho 83316 John T. Massman '56, 3917 Broadiray, Kansas City, Mo. 64111 Frank L. McGinn '52, 900 Bldg., Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062 Robert L. McGoldrick '56, 15 Drury Lane, West Hartford, Conn. 05117 Leonard H. Tose '37, 6+ W. 4th St., Bridge­port, Pa. 19405 

DIRECTORS TO 1973 
Daniel D. Canalc '42, 1325 Commerce Title Bldg., Memphis, Tcnn. 38103 Dr. John C. Lungren '38, 4180 Chestnut Ave.,-Long Beach, Calif. 90807 James C. MacDevitt '35, 43 Hampsliire Rd., Great Neck, N.Y. 11023 Joseph T. O'Neill '53, 60 W. 4th St., St. Paul, Minn. 55102 John R. Panclli '49, 17549 Kirkshire, Bir­mingham, Mich. 48009 


DIRECTORS TO 1974 

Joseph G. Bertrand '54, 8114 S. Luclla Ave., Chicago, III. 60617 Paul J. Doyle '36, 5061 Cedar Creek Dr., Houston, Tex. 77027 Peter F. Flahertj- '51, 5033 Castlcman St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15232 -William K. McGow-an Jr. '57, 108 Pcnns>l­\'ania Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 46204 Charles F. Osbom '38, 7315-51st N.E., SeatUc, Wash. 98115 1971 Notre Dame ALUMNUS, University of Notre Dame, all rights reserved. Reproduc­tion in whole or in part ^vithout wtitten permission is prohibited. 
The Notre Dame ALIIMNUS is published monthly, except January, Alarch, Alay, August and November, by the University of Notre Dame. Second-chus postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

FEATURES 6 The Notre Dame Seating Game 
8 To be or Not To be 10 Happiness is: a Scholarship, a Part-Time Job, a Loan? 13 The Class of '71: It Didn't Come Easy DEPARTMENTS 
3 ND News 21 Sports 21 Class News 47 Club News 54 Graduate Schools 56 On Record 58 Alumni Ask 59 Alumni Speak 

COEDUCATION AT NOTRE DAME 
Snoopy sits atop his house of fantasy. Today he is the famous writer, paws poised above his typewriter keyboard. He thinks: "Sometimes when you are a great writer, the words come so fast you can hardly put them down on paper . . ." He pauses, waiting for 
the rush of words. It does not come. Forlornly: "Sometimes." 
This great writer perched beneath, rather than atop, the Golden Dome is having the same problem as he tries to say something about the most significant historical event at ND since Fr. Sorin found his way to South Bend 129 years ago. That is, the coeducation of Notre Dame. 
I must admit right away that I'm for coeducation at Notre Dame. This is the only all-male school that I ever attended and the memories of that aspect are not all pleasant. 
While memories tend to be selec­tively edited, I can recall no one during my student years at ND who said he chose the place because it was an all-male institution. But I can remember plenty who griped about the fact that there were few girls to be seen around the campus. Especial­ly on weekends. Even so, the lack of femininity at Notre Dame was con­sidered more of a social than an intellectual problem. 
More importantly, there is a reali­zation today that women can contrib­ute to the intellectual atmosphere of a university. Happily this fact of life is being accepted at Notre Dame. For if it perpetuated the anachronistic at­titude that women are to be seen and not heard, then it would not be living up to its mission of becoming a great Catholic university. 
I would have to agree with Fr. Charles E. Sheedy CSC, who chaired the ND-SMC coordinating commit­tee on coeducation, when he told the alumni senators that ND and SMC have j'oined together because "it had to happen" in the course of history. 
It is no longer possible or accept­able to separate education by reason of sex. Why Notre Dame persisted so long in this philosophy of education is anybody's guess. As one ND ad­ministrator speculated, no one prob­ably ever addressed himself seriously to the question of why not have co­education. 
As soon as the names of girls were mixed in with boys on the Notre Dame class lists five years ago, co­education became a fact of life here. And there is no turning back. What emerges now will be a new and dif­ferent university, there can be no doubt about that. Hopefully, it will be a university as unique in character as the one it replaces. 


-T:^^ 

OK UiiliGathi Pin 
Trustees of the University of Notre Dame and neighboring Saint Mary's College formally approved plans to unify the two institutions on May 14. 
In separate sessions, the two Boards of Trustees approved unification plans drawn up by their executive committees at a joint meeting in March (see April-May ALUMNUS 
p. 3). Signing the unification agree­ment at a press conference were Mother M. Olivette Whalen CSC, chairman of Saint Mary's Board; Sis­ter M. Alma Peter CSC, acting presi­dent of Saint Mary's; Edmund A. Stephan, a Chicago attorney who heads Notre Dame's Board, and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC, Presi­dent of Notre Dame. 
"The ultimate goal of this unifica­tion," the sttaement said, "is a single institution with one student body of men and women, one faculty, one president and administration, and one Board of Trustees." 
Specifies of the agreement include the following: 
—^Immediate appointment of Sister Alma as a vice president of Notre Dame, charged with responsibilities in the area of unification. 
—^Addition of Saint Mary's nun-trustees and lay trustees to Notre Dame's two governing bodies, The Fellows and the Board of Trustees, following unification. 
—^Preservation of the identity of Saint Mary's by matriculation of all women undergraduates at Notre Dame through Saint Mary's College and by means of their Notre Dame de­grees, which will bear the name of "Saint Mary's College of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame" as the col­lege of record. The statement also noted that Notre Dame "might well become involved in an innovative or experimental educational endeavor which could then also become a ve­hicle for perpetuating the identity of Saint Mary's College." 
—Unification of all academic de­partments by the 1971-72 school year. "Those faculty members with tenure at Saint Mary's will be given tenure at Notre Dame," the statement said. "Non-tenured Saint Mary's College faculty members will be evaluated for tenure at Notre Dame according to the same standards applied to Notre Dame's own non-tenured faculty mem­bers, with due regard for their prox­imity to tenure at Saint Mary's and with provision for a reasonable evalu­ation period as a Notre Dame faculty member." 
—^Integration of administrations, with reasonable effort being taken to place persons in positions for which they qualify and for which there is a need in the unified structure. 
—^Extension of a formal welcome 

Dniews 
to Sisters of the Holy Cross at Saint 
Mary's to serve in the University of 
Notre Dame at all levels, with re­
muneration to be negotiated vrith the 
religious order in a manner similar 
to the agreement Notre Dame now 
has with its Holy Cross priests. 
Establishment of interinstitutional 
teams to move unification forward in 
areas such as academic affairs, stu­
dent affairs, business affairs, public 
relations and development. 
The statement emphasized the im­
portance of the financial viability of 
any plan to bring the two institutions 
together and asked Notre Dame's ex­
ecutive vice president and treasurer. 
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, CSC, and the 
secretary of Saint Mary's Board, Sis­
ter M. Gerald Hartney, CSC, to re­
port next fall on the financial im­
plications of unification. 
It also committed the University to 
providing "full and equal participation 
by women in the intellectual and 
social life of the University in roles 
other than thta of students—as trus­
tees, as administrators, as faculty 
members and as staff professionals." 
Inms Gratei 

Some 1,800 undergraduate and grad­uate degrees were awarded May 23 in the 126th annual commencement ex­ercises at Notre Dame. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, President, conferred the degrees. Re­ceiving bachelor's degrees were 1,400 seniors in Notre Dame's four under­graduate colleges. Arts and Letters, Science, Business Administration and Engineering. In addition, there were 290 graduate degrees as well" as 36 M.B.A.'s and 78 law degrees. 
Dr. Kenneth Keniston, professor of psychiatry at the Yale School of Medi­cine, was the commencement speaker. Known for his studies of psycholog­ical development and sociopolitical dissent in adolescence, youth and early adulthood, Keniston has written three books since 1968 dealing with this area. 
In addition to Keniston, who re­ceived an honorary doctor of laws 
ITS OFFICIAL—Making history with his pen is Edmund A. Stephan, a Chicago attorney degree, 10 others received honorary who chairs the Notre Dame Board of Trustees, as he signs an agreement to unify ND degrees: and neighboring Saint Mary's College ratified by trustees of both institutions May 14. 
Neil A. Armstrong, deputy associ­
Other signers, from the left, were Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CS.C, president of Notre 
ate administrator for aeronautics for 
Dame; Mother M. Olivette Whalen, CJS.C, chairman of the Board of Trustees at Saint Mary's, and Sister M. Alma Peter, president of Saint Mary's. Administration (NASA) and the first 
the National Aeronautics and Space astronaut on the moon, doctor of laws. Dr. Andrew F. Brimmer, one of seven members of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, doctor of laws. Nominated by President Johnson to the board, Brimmer shares responsibility for the determination of the basic monetary and credit policy of the United States. Dr. Robert F. Chandler Jr., director of the Interna­tional Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in the Philippines, doctor of science. An agronomist who received his doc­torate from the University of Mary­land in 1934 and served as president of the University of New Hampshire from 1950-54, Chandler has been with the Rockefeller Foundation for 17 years. Donald M. Graham, chairman of the board of directors of Continen­tal Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago and a Notre Dame trustee since 1964, doctor of laws. Judge Roger J. Kiley '23L, member of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in Chicago, doctor of laws. Rev. Bernard Loner­gan S.J., professor of theology at Regis College, Willowdale, Ontario, Canada, doctor of divinity. Frank O'Malley '32, a professor of English and faculty member at Notre Dame since 1933, doctor of laws. Dr. Angelo Paredi, prefect of the Ambrosiana Library in Milan, Italy, doctor of laws. Dr. Er­nest W. TTiiele, professor emeritus of chemical engineering at Notre Dame, doctor of laws. Msgr. Louis-Albert Vachon, rector of Laval University, 
Quebec, Canada, doctor of laws. 
The University also honored six fac­
ulty members and administrators for 
outstanding classroom teaching and 
service in their assigned fields of en­
deavor. 

Dr. Kraig K. Adier, assistant pro­
fessor of biology at Notre Dame since 
1968, received the Thomas J. Madden 
Teaching Award, presented annually 
since 1963 to the faculty member se­
lected in a vote by freshman deans, 
academic counselors and students in 
the Freshman Year of Studies pro­
gram. 

The Lay Faculty Award, presented by the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion to the instructor who has contrib­uted distinguished service to the Uni­versity was awarded to Thomas J. Stritch '34, a professor of communica­tion arts since 1935. 
Sorii flwtfil 

The Edward Frederick Sorin Award, the highest honor to be bestowed by the University of Notre Dame's Alum­ni Association, was awarded to Dr. Thomas P. Carney '37 during the an­nual Alumni Senate meeting on campus. 
Named for the priest-founder of the University, the award is presented annually to an alumnus on the basis of distinguished service to Notre Dame. A former president of the Alumni Association, Carney is a mem­ber of the Board of Trustees and 
STANDING OVATION — Frank O'Malley '32, long-time professor of English at ND, receives an honorary Doctor of Laws degree and a standing oration during I97I com­mencement exercises. He is flanked by Edmund A. Stephan, Trustees chairman (left) and the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC, University president. 
Dr. Thomas Carney 
serves as chairman of its student af­
fairs committee. He is senior vice 
president for research and develop­
ment at G. D. Searle and Co., 
Chicago. 
During his term as Association president Carney organized the Alum­ni Senate to broaden the representa­tion between the 175 alumni clubs throughout the world and the campus headquarters. More than 100 mem­bers of the senate joined 16 alumni board members at the presentation ceremony in the Monogram Lounge of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
He has long been active in Notre Dame affairs. In 1958 he delivered the prestigious Nieuwland Lectures on campus and was elected Man of the Year by the Indianapolis Notre Dame Club. He served as special gifts chair­man for the first of three successful capital funds programs completed by the University during the last decade, and as corporations and foundations chairman for the second. 
Previous recipients of the Sorin Award have included Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh, CSC, President of Notre Dame; Bernard J. VoU, South Bend industrialist; James Arm­strong, first Alumni Association Sec­retary; the late Archbishop Paul J. Hallinan of Atlanta, Ga., and the late William Schmitt of Portland, Ore. 
Carney completed his graduate de­grees at Pennsylvania State Univer­sity and post-doctoral work at the University of Wisconsin. He and his wife, Mary, have four children. 


We Set letters 
by Richard Conklin, Director 
Information Services 
"Write a letter to the Times" runs the classic solution to frustration, and each year countless people do, mak­ing letters to the editor one of the best read sections of any publication and one which provides a valuable psychological link with the reader. 
There are newspapers where the letters are uncommonly entertaining (The Times of London), newspapers which have to ration space to prevent hogging (The New York Times), newspapers which invite their corre­spondents to a massive dinner each year (The South Bend Tribune), and even some periodicals which still pro­vide no forum for readers (Reader's Digest). 

Tsking lleapt 
by Bill Mitchell '71 
"The times are inexpressibly evil," Daniel Berrigan has written, "and yet, and yet, the times are inexhaustibly good, solaced by the courage and hope of many. The truth rules, Christ is not forsaken .. . the stone in our heart is dissolved; we take heart once more." 
Those words describe well the kind of time and the kind of place we are in this spring for ND's 126th annual commencement. For only if what Berrigan says is true do the cere­monies and the ritual of this gradua­tion weekend make any sense at all. 
As I approach commencement, I am torn in two directions, toward nostalgia and toward apocalypticism, with the latter exercising the stronger pull. Yet I suspect both visions are inappropriate and, more than that, untrue. 
The times are simply too confusing to articulate any clear-cut understand­ing of what it means to me to become a graduate of this university. It is a confusion, for example, that is em­
For many years, the ALUMNUS fol­lowed the tradition of the Digest, but in recent times, not only has it had a letters-to-the-editor section, but also one which has often been crowded with rhetorical shellbursts which light up the sky but sometimes fail to il­lumine the landscape. As a matter of fact, so lively is the letters column of the ALUMNUS that it was recently singled out by a higher education newsletter as an example of the kind of enlightened publications policy which does not attempt to jerry-build a consensus out of the mail. 
Yet, the blessings of this policy of openness are mixed, and there are those who feel it feeds polarization. On a recent Universal Notre Dame Night sojourn, I found an inclination to take the ALUMNUS letters section as a reliable index to the extent of bifurcation in alumni sentiment. It is important to remember that there is an inevitable foreshortening which 
bodied in the plans for the Bacca­
laureate Mass. An honor guard of a 
dozen classmates has been invited to 
carry the American flag to the altar, 
where it is to be blessed. 
There, within the context of a ritual celebrating the love, the suffering and the search that has been shared by so many in the congregation during the past four years, is thrust what has increasingly come to be known as the symbol of blind American national­ism. Ironically, it will be blessed by Father Hesburgh, a man who has given much of his life in an effort to make this nation less blind. 
Blessing a national flag is offensive enough in any church-state situation; in the United States today it seems particularly inappropriate. For as much as we might pray for this coun­try's future vision, its flag stands now for the kind of power that remains unresponsive to the claims for survival, and justice of so many victims of the war, and of so many victims of a domestic policy of benign neglect. 
It is too simple and too untrue to indict an entire nation for what has been done in its ghettos, or in its name across the world. What I intend in­stead is an indictment of a nationalism that respects the flag too much and takes place in letters' columns, and 
some realities—^such as reconciliation 
—are seldom reflected. The dominant 
impression left by letters (especially 
those in the wake of controversies) is 
one composed of contentiousness, gen­
eration gap-ism, and alienation. Yet, 
when other evidence (such as atti­
tudinal responses on alumni surveys 
and Annual Fund donations), is re­
corded, the conclusion is unmistak­
able: despite massive campus changes, 
Notre Dame has retained a remark­
ably high level of alumni allegiance. 
There is no going back to the no-
letters policy of yesteryear; it's an era 
of dialogue about controverted issues, 
and any publication which cannot face 
that fact is not going to keep the 
credibility of its readers. At the same 
time, perhaps one can make a small 
plea for less adrenalin and more cog­
nition, less anger and more wit, less 
bombast and more subtlety, less ideol­
ogy and more understanding. 
people and justice too little. Perhaps 
our prayers for the latter would be a 
more appropriate commencement ex­
ercise than our benediction of the 
former. 
Even as this nation continues on its 
path of disgraceful killing in Vietnam, 
though, the times are paradoxically 
— and inexhaustively — good. For at ND we have found men and women of decency, of courage, of a radical willingness to share their lives with us. Teachers and administrators have ma­tured our visions, and have altered their own along the way. We have, at times, betrayed their trust, and they ours, yet there has been reconciliation and realization that expectations are often too high or too low, and seldom what they should be. The truth does not fully rule at ND, but neither is Christ really forsaken. 
Together we need to find a new harmony, where our rituals celebrate what is true and do not bless what is not. "I would like to be able to love justice," Albert Camus wrote, "and at the same time to love my country." Toward that end, we embrace those at ND who have given us so much, and try to live what we have learned. The stone in our heart is dissolved; we take heart once more. 



nENmEMM 

Once again the battle for football tickets will be almost as fierce as th 
The sight of footballs flying through the air during the annual Blue-Gold Game at the close of spring practice reminds us that, even though %ve are still relishing the sweetness of the Cot­ton Bowl victory, it is time to think about a new football season, new ex­citement, and new headaches. We wonder each year how the ticket pressure could be any greater, but then along comes the next season and the pressure seems to double. Policies implemented over the past few years— season ticket sale frozen at the 1967 figure; reduction of the visiting team allotment; granting parents of students priority for only one home game—all have helped to relieve the pressure somewhat. But until our stadium capacity is increased, if ever, our foot­ball ticket situation will continue to be a classic example of the aged eco­nomic law of supply and demand. 
Naturally, experiencing our existing conditions is preferred to selling tickets from a barker's stand at the comer of Michigan and LaSalle in downtown South Bend. 
Home Games:. There are six home games on the 1971 schedule. North­western, Michigan State, Southern California and Navy make their bien­nial appearances in Notre Dame Stadium, while North Carolina and Tulane journey from the southland to test the Irish. Ticket supplies for Northwestern, Michigan State and Southern California will undoubtedly be exhausted during the Alumni Ad­vance Sale. Hence, there will be no public sale of tickets for these games. If alumni clubs are interested in a block of tickets for North Carolina, Navy or Tulane, we will make a tenta­tive reservation if you contact the Ticket Manager before June 30. How­ever, no firm commitment can be made on any game for an alumni club until the Advance Sale closes on July 
15. Because block orders are filled after all individual orders have been assigned, they are invariably end zone seats. 
Away Games: Notre Dame will receive a grossly inadequate allotment of only 5,000 tickets for Purdue at West Lafayette and for Louisiana State at Baton Rouge. (This reciprocal action stems from our policy of allow­ing visiting teams a maximum of 5,000 tickets when they play in Notre Dame Stadium.) In an attempt to eliminate some of the inequities in a geographic distribution of applications when anticipated demand greatly ex­ceeds ticket supplies, we will experi­ment with a new procedure for the above-mentioned games. AH con­tributing alumni (rather than just those in certain states) will receive an ap­plication form on which they may order a maximum of two (2) tickets for either Purdue or Louisiana State, but not both. We hope you will order tickets for the game nearest your home and expect the tickets to be for your personal use only. However, please understand that receipt of an application is not a guarantee that you will receive tickets. It is certain that we will have to conduct a lottery of applications on the opening day of the advance sale (June 19). Again, the application form is restricted to either 
Purdue or Louisiana State. The ap­plication and your remittance will be rejected if you order for both games. 
Ticket supplies for our away games with Miami and Pittsburgh should be sufficient to accommodate individual applicants and perhaps some alumni clubs in those areas. 
Advance Sale Procedure: The Ad­vance Sale procedure for 1971 is the same as the past few years. It is listed for you below. We thank you for your cooperation in the past and remind you that only by your compliance can we serve you efficiently. 
1. Contributors to the 28th Annual Alumni Fund in 1970, religious and honorary degree holders plus the May Class of 1971 are eligible for Advance 
'Si 
'Si 

?Ss^S^556?3S^I^S^^^^^^5^^SKi^S?srasra5^=swT9!! 
JEATMIIiyi 
:tion on the playing field, by Don Bouffard, ND Ticket Manager 
Sale order forms for the 1971 foot­ball season. A contribution recorded after January 1, 1971, affords ticket priority for the 1972 season but not for 1971. 
2.
 Alumni Advance Sale opens June 19 (the customary opening day, June 20, falls on Sunday). Advance Sale forms are limited to two tickets per game, are not transferable and will be honored until July 15, or until the ticket supply is exhausted, whichever occurs first. Any order arriving after that date, regardless of category, will receive General Use treatment. Even so, an order honored before July 15 is not guaranteed a preferred location (see Point 5 below). 

3.
 In order to be seated with a fellow alumnus you must send your applications together in the same envelope. Because of our large volume of mail we cannot seat you together unless you follow this procedure. 

4.
 The Alumni Advance Sale order form is designated as such in bold type on its face for ready identification. Eligible alumni should receive these before June 19. If you have not—and you're certain of your eligibility— notify the Ticket Manager at once. Our envelopes are addressed by the Alumni Association but filled and mailed by the Ticket Office. Omis­sions are usually caused by address changes. So, if your address differs from that used for the current ALUM­NUS, forward that change at once to the Alumni Oflrace, 

5.
 Seats are allotted in accordance with date received, modified only as follows: Orders arriving before open­ing day (June 19) are Integrated with those received on June 19. At close of business June 19, all applications on hand at that point are thoroughly shuffled, drawn by lot and assigned a sequence number to establish the order of seat assignment for each game. As many as 8,000 orders for each of the more popular games may arrive for processing June 19 (accounting for all 16,000 alumni tickets). Obviously, depending upon the luck of the draw, even a first-day order could be on the 50-yard line or beyond the goal line. (After Monogram and Season Ticket 


orders are satisfied, only 4,000 tickets are available in Notre Dame Stadium between the goal and 50-yard Une for Alumni.) An alumnus who files his order even two or three days after June 19 can expect only end zone seats, or no seats at all (see diagram). 
General Sale: If tickets remain for general sale for any games. General Use ticket applications will be mailed to all alumni the latter part of July, prior to the August 1 opening of public sale. It is entirely possible in 1971 that Advance Sale described above could claim our entire ticket supply. The alternatives will definitely be established by July 15. General Use forms are transferable and the con­tributing alumnus who had already used his Advance Sale form for two tickets may place additional orders via the general form. General Use forms carry no locational preferences as all such orders are filled after Advance Sale purchases. 
Fund-Raising Ra£Bes: Alumni clubs frequently ask for two or more seats in a "choice location" for raffle or fund-raising awards. With our present critical situation this could be ac­complished only if a contributing alumnus were to purchase the tickets in his name during the Advance Sale. The location of seats so purchased will be exactly in accordance with the date this order is received. We cannot guar­antee a choice location for a raffle at the expense of the individual alumnus. 
Season Tickets: For the fifth year in a row our Season Ticket sale has been frozen at the 1967 figure. Again, any Season Tickets not renewed will be used to help relieve the pressure from contributing alumni on an individual game basis. They will not be offered again for sale as Season Tickets. 

COMPUTERS AT NOTRE DAME ARE NOW BEING USED TO AID STUDENTS OF THE HUMANITIES AS WELL AS THOSE IN SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING. BY MARC CARMICHAEL 72 
When the student graduates from Notre Dame he will move from quiet lakes, trees and lawns into a com­puterized world. The business he en­ters may make extensive use of com­puters, or the law firm he joins might use a computer to find all relevant court decisions in the space of two or three seconds. If his degree is in any­thing but engineering or science, the chances are that the sight of the com­puter will frighten him. 
There arc faculty members at ND determined to correct this. Led by Frederick Crosson, dean of the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, and Profes­sor William Davisson, a group of Notre Dame teachers are trying to increase interest in using the computer in the classroom. The idea is to ex­pose students to the computer in classes in a way that makes sense. 
The project faces many obstacles: the equipment needed is expensive; teachers with computer training are scarce; specific courses are not mapped out in all fields; and most important — the apprehension, fear and apathy that are associated with the computer. 
In attempting to overcome these obstacles. Professor Davisson and Dean Crosson drafted a proposal that was sent to the chairmen of the de­partments of the University. This pro­posal calls for a significant improve­ment in the quality of undergraduate education at Notre Dame by introduc­ing the "nature and implications of the modem computer and computer technology to all of our undergradu­ate (and graduate) students." In call­ing for this they do not want to add classes in which the computer would be used; they hope the computer will find a place in existing classes. They also want the student to benefit from the computer with little or no addi­tional training. 
To do this they will employ a method where the student will give the computer instructions by using a computer terminal (a specially de­signed typewriter). This typewriter is 

portable and is connected to the com­
puter by a telephone line. With this 
typewriter and special telephone re­
ceiver "cradle" a student can talk to 
the computer from any phone on 
campus or any phone in the United 
States. All it takes is about three 
hours of instructions to learn the typ­
ing code and the student is in busi­
ness. 
One course using this method daily is Professor Edward Kline's English 214, Linguistics and the Computer. In this course Professor Kline spends about three class hours instructing the students on how to type their mes­sages to the computer and the rest of the semester is spent on lab work. Professor Kline reported that before the use of the computer in Linguistics a student could expect to spend one-half semester analyzing a 14-line son­net by hand. Now that same student can analyze 14 to IS sonnets in the same amount of time by eliminating the drudgery of hand work. The hand work might be counting the number of times a certain sound appears in the poem, or the number of words that begin with the letter 't.' 
Professor Kline insists that the computer is not the main attraction of the course, rather it lets the student concentrate on the linguistic analysis itself. The computer does the "busy work" and the student does the think­ing—14 to 15 times more thinking. Professor Kline said that, "Human error in analysis can slow down and confuse the student, but with the com­puter the analysis is quick and ac­curate." He also said that since the introduction of the computer that there has been a definite increase in enrollment and interest in the class. 
Professor Edward Fischer, of the Department of Communication Arts, said, "In my course called Visual Communication, we might be able to use a computer for one project each semester. I try to give a student some feeling for the characteristics of good design in architecture, painting, pho­tography, magazine layout, the dance 
— any place design is present. The student does about 12 or 15 projects a semester—bookjackets, record album covers, brochures, things like that. Perhaps one of these projects could be designed with a computer. In writing a magazine article about computer art I learned that a computer is capable of creating remarkable designs, if the artist working with it is remarkable enough." 
There are other areas in arts and letters where the computer is being used and there are areas where thought is going on about using the computer. One man who is exploring possibili­ties, is Professor Marshall Smelser of the History Department. But Profes­sor Smelser, like others who have at least taken the time to look at their department, is finding out that on the surface there doesn't seem to be any easy, quick uses for the computer on the undergraduate level. Professor Smelser sees the computer as a valu­able tool in gathering information for term papers, but feels his department has still to research many possibilities of using the computer. 
This need to explore possibilities is one of the problems that Professor Davisson expected and so his proposal asks for faculty members to be al­lowed to take a semester leave to sit down and examine their particular de­partment to come up with concrete ideas for using the computer. To do this money has to be set aside to pay these professors, money that is hard to come by and money that Dean Crosson and Professor Davisson are trying hard to find. 
Another area that uses the com­puter extensively is the College of Business Administration. In a recent exhibition on campus, the College showed how the computer is used in a variety of ways. In Management and Marketing the computer is pro­grammed to act as a "live" business while eight teams of "executives" manipulate it as they would a business to achieve the best results. The com­puter responds automatically to show them their results. The Finance De­partment uses the computer to train students in decisions concerning in­surance, taxation, advantages of buy­ing equipment over leasing it, etc. The Accounting Department uses the com­puter to help in a system analysis of an accounting structure. Since large companies use the computers to solve all kinds of problems, the college graduate should be experienced in us­ing a computer. 
Of course, money is the largest ob­stacle facing this program. Fortu­nately the computer is already at Notre Dame and already in operation. But there still remains $750,000 to be found to finance a three-year program that will introduce the computer as a learning device. The money is needed in four areas: (1) Relief time for faculty investigation; (2) Acquisition of "software." Software is the devel­oped computer program that will allow the average student to sit down at the special typewriter and work with the computer without having to train for a semester or more in com­puter programming. Here is where most of the money would go: (3) Special or additional hardware — mainly money for 45 typewriters; and 
(4) Miscellaneous expenses for travel to other colleges and attending con­ferences to exchange ideas. 
The drafted proposal has been sent to private foundations, but since they have only had it a short time. Dean Crosson said that there has been no response. He said that the chance of getting the money is good, even though he realizes that grants are hard to come by these days because of the economic pinch. A request to pri­vate foundations seems to be the first step, one that may be followed with a request to the Government 
Dean Crosson thought that one rea­son that Notre Dame has a good chance for a grant is that although computers have done a remarkable job in science and math, they have not made much progress in the liberal arts. With the appropriate funds Notre Dame could be a proving ground for computers in the humani­ties. In fact, the software developed by Notre Dame is far superior to soft­ware purchased from other schools. 
All those interviewed agreed that Notre Dame is at the point where enough departments are interested to make a strong bid for financial aid. And many feel that a grant will be just what many of the departments need to create interest where there is now little or no action. Notre Dame has a chance to move even higher in the ranks of our nation's leading insti­tutions and an even greater chance to play a big role in improving education on a large scale. Dean Crosson, Pro­fessor Davisson and others are hoping for Notre Dame to make the best of that chance. They are also hoping to hear soon that someone is willing to help them. 
WW 

HAPPINESS IS: 

A SCHOLARSHIP, 
A PAHHIME JOB. 


LOAN? 
by Greg Caputo '71 
As tuition rises, so does the demand among ND students 
for financial aid. 
Perhaps the oldest form of financial 
aid at Notre Dame is the university 
part-time job. Many alumni proudly 
recall how they "worked their way 
through school" in the dining hall or 
the librao'. 

Last year, for the first time since 
anyone can remember, Notre Dame 
students were standing in line for these 
kinds of jobs. Some didn't get them. 
There were 1,050 jobs available and 
more than 1,400 applicants. Officials 
anticipate an even greater number of 
students seeking jobs this fall. Re­
gardless of the kind of work he does, 
the student puts in 12 hours a week 
and has S6I0 deducted from his tui­
tion bill of $2,300. This is a tuition 
increase of S200 over last year and 
will make the need for financial as­
sistance even greater. 

Notre Dame always had financial 
aid of sorts for its students, but only 
within the past 15 years has the aid 
become sizeable. Last year it totaled 
S5.3 million. Two things happened to 
make more aid available: the National 
Defense Education Act went into ef­
fect in 1958, and the University re­
ceived an unexpected gift of SS.5 
million for scholarships in 1966. 
Financial aid at Notre Dame was so slight in the early I950's that it was administered by one person work­ing on a part-time basis. Now that 54 per cent of Notre Dame students re­ceive some sort of aid there is a full-time staff of seven and a monthly computer run to keep track of the money being used. 
The Rev. Charles McCarragher CSC, director of Financial Aid and Scholarships, says: "Financial aid can't easily be defined. I suppose the best thing to say is that we are trying to make up the difference between what the parents can give for their son's education and what the educa­tion costs. The amount of aid is de­termined by the Parent's Confidential Statement which anyone seeking any kind of financial aid is required to fill out. The statement is analyzed on a computer and then we are notified what that farhily's need is. The state­ment is a dastardly thing. I've had certified public accountants tell me it's rougher than an income tax re­turn." 
Father McCarragher said that as late as early May his office was ham­pered by the U.S. Congress which had yet to decide how much money will be available for National De­fense Student Loans for the coming semester. 
"Part of this problem is that we had to apply for our Federal money last September—along with all the 
other schools in the country which 
participate in the program. The De­
partment of Health, Education and 
Welfare looks at our application and 
then must approve or disapprove it. 
The President has stated that Federal 
money should be directed to helping 
low income students but we don't 
have too many here. 
"We'll feel fortunate if we get 40 
per cent of the money we asked for. 
We can't take that 'loss' in to account, 
though, when we apply for the money. 
We must be .ver>' honest about how 
much we request. We can't over-
request in order to get the exact 
amount we need. Right now we are 
cutting our promises for loans by 
about a couple hundred dollars per 
request. We have, in the past, been 
able to give only about SSOO in Na­
tional Defense Loans even though the 
program allows a student to borrow 
up to $1,000." 
At Notre Dame 955 students re­ceive National Defense Loans. This loan is a good means of financing an education because the money is lent by the Government (through the school) at three per cent simple an­nual interest. The student doesn't have to begin repaying the money until nine months after graduation; and then he can take up to 10 years paying off the loan in monthly install­ments. The program also has provi­sions which cancel 50 to 100 per cent of the loan if the student enters the teaching profession. 
Although National Defense Loans may be the most desirable, statistics in­dicate that the popular type of aid at Notre Dame is the Federally Guar­anteed Bank Loan. Nearly 1,400 stu­dents receive money through this pro­gram. Unlike all the other programs the bank loan does not depend on need. The student borrows money di­rectly from a federally approved bank or lending institution. However, Father McCarragher says that recent economic reverses have caused banks to be reluctant to lend money in this program. 
"A student on his own stands vir­tually no chance of getting a bank loan. Usually the bank his father does business with is about his only hope of getting any sort of money. don't see why the Government doesn't have a bigger stick to push banks to make these loans. 
"The problem here, as far as the banks are concerned, is that the Gov­ernment will guarantee the loan only up to 7 per cent interest. Until the last few months, that was too low 


for the banks to release their money. 
I doa't know what will happen now 
that the prime interest rate has gone 
down. You see, the economy played 
a role here because the original idea 
behind the Government guaranteeing 
the loan was to urge banks to become 
involved and to release the needed 
money to pay for a student's educa­
tion. But the high rates worked just 
the opposite because of the lower 
7 per cent rate the Government would 
underwrite." 

Because of the $8.5 million gift in 
1966, and money from other sources, 
Notre Dame's scholarship endowment 
now totals about $9.5 million of a $65 
million overall endowment. Harvard's 
total endowment is estimated at $1 
billion, Princeton's about $500 mil­
lion. 

"We are now able to offer about 
$400,000 per year in University-spon­
sored scholarships," explains Father 
McCarragher. "Our endowment 
money is invested and the scholar­
ships come from the earnings. We 
never touch the principal. 

"There's an interesting story about that $8.5 gift. Mrs. Florence Dailey of Rochester, N.Y., died and left the money to us. All we know is that she was an employee at Eastman Kodak Company in Rochester. It seems she had been there from the early days and had been receiving stock benefits and that sort of thing that employees participate in. With various stock splits and increases in value over the years she amassed a fortune. I don't think she even kept track of it. When she died, her money really put schol­arship aid on its feet at Notre Dame." 
To be eligible for Notre Dame scholarship money a student must first be designated a Notre Dame Scholar. This designation is made by the Ad­missions Oflice and is based solely on the student's academic record, not on any consideration of financial need. After being designated a Scholar, the boy is then eligible to apply for schol­arship money. His need is determined by the Parent's Confidential Statement If the student does not need a mon­etary award he is given a token an­nual stipend of $100. Officials are now toying with the idea of eliminat­ing the. stipend because they feel the money could be better used elsewhere. 
Although Notre Dame will not talk financial aid with a prospective stu­dent until he's been accepted, the amount of money and types of pro­grams available play a very real role in admission procedures. 
Recently the University began a drive to recruit minority race students.. 
This, coupled with President Nixon's 
belief that the poorer student should 
be helped more than others, has inad­
vertently eliminated the middle income 
student from nearly all sources of 
financial aid. 

Dan Saracino, an admissions officer 
who handles most of Notre Dame's 
minority recruitment, readily admits 
there is a double standard at Notre 
Dame. 

"A poor white often won't get the same amount of aid the poor black will. The double standard works this way. Let's say a poor white applies here and his parents' income is just above the $6,000 maximum for an Economic Opportunity Grant or his parents can't meet the Federal money with matching money of their own. That poor white student will have a tough time getting any money at all. He can hope for a National Defense Loan, or a student job. A poor black in the same situation has a much easier chance of getting money. If he is in­eligible for the E.O.G. because his parents make more than S6,000 we have our special fund for minority students. But if his parents meet the low income requirement but can't af­ford the matching funds (which is most often the case) then we can pro­vide the needed money from the mi­nority fund. So, you can see it's much easier to receive aid if you're poor and black than if you're poor and white." 
The Economic Opportunity Grant to which Saracino referred is yet an­other Federal program administered by the University. The E.O.G. pro­gram, set up in 1965, provides a maxi­mum Federal contribution of $1,000 per year for students who come from families with a total annual income of less than $6,000. There were 207 stu­dents receiving E.O.G. money last year at Notre Dame. The only stipu­lation which the Government places on the money is that "matching funds" must be supplied by the University. TTiis is often the major ob­stacle for students who would other­wise qualify for this money. Money at the University is tight, and a stu­dent's parents often can afford noth­ing, so that the student is either left entirely out in the cold or receives only a fraction of the available funds. 
"It wasn't until last year that a spe­cial fund was set up for minorities," Saracino says. "Hopefully we can get around to taking care of blacks, and chicanos, and American Indians by the quality of their minds and not the color of their skins. 
"So far this year we've had high-quality students applying for minority 
aid. Our total number of applicants 
in this area is down from last year 
but we're getting students of superior 
intelligence. So far we have desig­
nated 19 of these applicants Notre 
Dame Scholars and they will have 
their financial need met for their four 
years here. 
"Our total number of all applicants 
this year is up over last year. This is 
gratifying because nearly all other 
large institutions are reporting a sub­
stantial decline. But we lose a lot 
of really good applicants because of 
our inability to provide as much aid 
as other places do. 
"For example, I've been in touch with a student from one of the Prairie States who was accepted here and at Harvard. But Harvard offered him a $3,400 annual scholarship and a $600 per year job. The best we could do was offer him a total package of about $1,800 per year based on a need of slightly more than-$2,000 per year to attend Notre Dame. His need for Harvard, obviously, is more but not as much more as the great difference in amounts offered. The boy is going to Harvard." 
Aside from these programs there are scholarships from the three branches of ROTC at Notre Dame. Some 327 students take part in this program. There is also the Federal Work-Study program involving 105 students at Notre Dame. Again the program relies on Federal money which is made available to the school to provide a certain number of part-time jobs for needy students. 
The Financial Aid office is respon­sible for keeping track of all the money spent for the various programs and jobs. The normal procedure is that the aid officer works up a "pack­age" for each student. In very few cases does the money a student re­ceives come from a single source. 
The cost of one year at Notre Dame is estimated at $3,700. Once a stu­dent's need is ascertained the financial aid officer then juggles money from those programs for which the student is eligible and tries to meet that need. This may mean, for example, a $300 loan plus a S600 job to meet a need of $900. 
Although more than half of Notre Dame's 6,407 undergraduates is al­ready receiving some sort of financial aid. Father McCarragher estimates the figure may go as high as 60 per cent next September. The ever-increasing costs in education and the stagnant economy are driving more and more students to enter the Financial Aid office seeking help. 

Everyone, perhaps, has his idea of what a "typical" No­tre Dame student is — or should be. It's a dangerous word, typical, when used around a student. For he will argue that he cannot be labeled as such. He will tell you that he is an individual, unique in his cares, joys, frus­trations and aspirations. These are, he feels, his own and no one else's. 
It is in this spirit that we oflfer you nine members of the Class of '71. While we do not call them typical, we feel that each speaks not only for himself but for others of the class who in some way share his ideas. And in this way, we hope to give you some feeling for the kind of individual that is growing up at Notre Dame today. 
Rich Hunter 

"I am confident in myself and in what I do," says Rich Hunter, a senior from Bel-mar, New Jersey. "I really have no reason to be: I have no talent; I'm tall and skinny. But you develop confidence when you work hard at some­thing." 
Rich works hard at many things; and, while his ad­mission of no talent is a dubious one, his confidence is obvious. It shows not only in his self-assured manner and articulate, rapid-fire speech, but also in his many notable achievements. 
"The thing about Rich Hunter," says one of his friends, "is that he does so many things so well." 
Indeed, his interests are broad. In the morning of a normal weekday he attends his classes. In the afternoon he devotes an hour apiece to working in the Interhall Ath­letic Oflice, leaching reading at Sister Marita's Day School in South Bend, and playing handball. In the evening he attends meetings of the var­ious committees on which he sits, including the St. Joseph County Mental Retardation Fund and the South Bend United Fund; and he studies in his room in Morrissey Hall where he is a Resident As­sistant. 
On weekends Rich was a bartender at the Senior Bar, and he regularly moderated meetings of the International Student Leadership Institute (ISLI) which is designed to assist high school juniors and seniors in discovering the techniques and the art of leadership. Rich helped to create the Institute; and, in 1970, he served as its student chairman. 
He still finds time for other things. As a certified NCAA basketball referee he has of­ficiated Notre Dame fresh­man games. He also umpires varsity baseball and referees Lacrosse. 
Rich subscribes to four book clubs and newspapers. He spends two hours each day reading, and he finishes about five books each week. 
'I 

"All the things I do," he says, "I do because I am in­terested in them. And if I cannot handle it, I won't do it." 
His first love is politics. "I have almost an obsession with politics," he says. As a high school student in 1965 Rich worked as the student chair­man of Young Citizens for Hughes, a group campaign­ing for New Jersey Governor Richard Hughes. At Notre Dame he served two years as chairman of the Young Democrats, and the walls of his room are covered with autographed photographs of various politicians for whom he has campaigned, includ­ing Senators Edmund Muskie (Maine), Vance Hartke (In­diana), and Harrison Wil­liams (New Jersey). 
He maintains a 3.7 aver­age while majoring in Gov­ernment, concentrating on Soviet studies. He used to be active in Hall government and the Student Senate, but no more. 
"The most important day 



 Come Easy 
of my life was the day I quit student politics," he says. 
Although he will continue to campaign for others, he himself has no intention of entering partisan politics again. Rather he plans to work for his Ph.D. and teach political science. 
"In partisan politics the ob­jective is to win. In academ­ics the objective is to seek truth. You can't do both," he points out. 
Rich's search for truth will continue this fall at Johns Hopkins University's School of International Study. He will also teach at Howard University. During his work for a Ph.D., he will spend a year in Poland on a Ful­bright Scholarship. Then he will return to finish his de­gree work. 
For Rich Hunter, a fellow who thrives on hard work, fulfillment lies in teaching, in acting as a "catalyst" to stir minds. With his confi­dence and dedication, he should be a good one.—Dave McCarthy '71 

Bob McCarthy: Be prepared. 
Bob McCarthy 

Bob McCarthy, a marketing major from LaGrange, 111., worked hard his senior year for the Marketing Club. As the Club's president, he in­vited executives from across the country to speak at Notre Dame. To help give students insight into their life's work, he got them involved with a field trip, a symposium, and a national contest. 
Bob is a quiet, unassuming guy who was described by one of his friends as being so straight that he gets his hair cut even though he doesn't have to. He works hard at his school assign­ments and spends many hours at the library. He believes that constant daily prepara­tion is the key to success in the business world he is about to enter. 
This daily preparation was particularly evident in the na­tional competition that the Club entered. The contest was sponsored by the Ford Motor Company to promote its new­est car, the Pinto. Bob said, "It was a profitable project because we were involved in conducting an entire market­ing operation. We did all the research ourselves and then planned what we wanted to do based on the research. Then we put the plan into action." 
The project was an op­portunity for the practical ap­plication of his marketing know-how. He headed the six-student group that repre­sented Notre Dame and ac­companied Dr. David Appel, their faculty advisor, to De­troit to present their cam­paign. They failed to win the overall competition, but were regional winners, receiving 
$1,000 for the Marketing 
Department. 

McCarthy served as a Res­ident Assistant in Badin Hall and feels that it was a worth­while job. "Most of the fellas on my floor were freshmen and it made me feel good answering their questions and helping them solve their problems. It was a good op­portunity for me because I really got involved with it. If I had been just another senior on the floor, the guys probably would have been re­luctant to ask for advice. But as an RA, I was able to feel entirely free in clear­ing up question marks in the minds of the hall residents." 
Bob is anxious to start working with his father's business. Professional Mar­keter's, Inc., a Chicago-based food brokerage firm. He is looking forward to the ap­plication of the business con­cepts and patterns that he learned while at Notre Dame. 
—Jack Cahill '71 
Jim Metzger 
Jim Metzger is an affable young man with an ever-pres­ent grin. His blue eyes light up beneath a thick shock of black hair as he gets to the punch line of the anecdote that he always seems to be telling. He's got an easygoing and unpretentious manner that makes him one of the best liked Resident Assistants in Planner Tower. He's a life­long Hoosier who came to Notre Dame because it was fairly close to his home in Indianapolis and because it was academically the best school that he thought he could get into. Jim is the eighth of 10 children in a German Catholic family and he still" talks lovingly about his elderly mother. 
One other thing about Jim Metzger: He was suspended by Notre Dame last year. 
He's hardly the type that you'd expect to become a "radical." Before you have the time to conjure up the image of a bearded drop-out with a Molotov cocktail, Jim explains that a radical is someone who sees the same problems of racism and pov­erty that a liberal sees, but addresses the roots of the problems as well as their manifestations. "A radical works for fundamental change in racial attitudes; the liberal starts a low-cost hous­ing project." 
In his sophomore year Jim was the chairman of his class' Literary Festival. That festi­val, in the spring of 1969, was an important event in his life. He recalls that as he contacted authors with invi­tations to the event he was being introduced to a fasci­nating group of intellectuals from across the country. When the festival had come and gone, Jim began to con­trast the festival week with the normal atmosphere at Notre Dame. He began to feel a moral and intellectual tepidity at the University. "All of the experiences that I'd had just wouldn't fit back into the narrow confines of Notre Dame," he says. 
By the next November Jim was being suspended from the University for his part in the Dow-CIA demonstration which saw the first (and only) invocation of Father Hesburgh's famed 15-minute 
Jim Metzger: "They kicked us 4 

u rule. "Napalm and political assassinations, these are evil," Jim says simply, "they must be opposed on Christian grounds." Jim was eventually reinstated and began trying to catch up with the rest of his class. While maintaining a "B" average, he stayed active in the Student Union Aca­demic Commission and be­came its head this year. 
He is equally at ease with a George McGovern or the guy in his section who wan­ders in to thank him for a favor. "Change isn't brought about just by revolutions," he explains. "It has to take place on many different levels. You have to be able to face any individual one on one." He loves to talk to people, to find in them what makes them unique. He claims to have found something exciting about every person he's had the time to get to know. Real education to Jim is "getting to grab a half hour of some­one else." 
Jim's "people orientation" is apparent in his objectives after graduation. He says that his feeling for the individual stops him from accepting the "us vs. them" philosophy that allows war. He has filed with his draft board for conscien­tious objector status and hopes to do equivalent service in an Indian school in the Southwest. As a Government major with a concentration in Latin American studies Jim is considering a teaching post in Chile. Meanwhile he spends his summers doing promotion work for Earth magazine, a publication that he describes as having "a sense of change and libera­tion." 
And that brings hini back to the subject of Notre Dame. "We have a stale administra­tion that hasn't developed a sense of change," he asserts. Speaking of the adverse alumni reaction to even the minor social changes at the University in the last several years, he reflects that, "The rate of change has increased from 30 years ago, but that rate is still well behind the pace at other major univer­sities. Can you think of another major school without an experimental college?" 
Jim claims that, unlike most of the people who grad­uate from Notre Dame, he has developed no affection for it. "They kicked us out with glibness," he says, referring 
Jim McGraw: More to school than the classroom. 
to the demonstration and its aftermath. "Isn't it regret­table to be in a place where they can excommunicate ten people so easily?" — Mike George '72 

Jim McGraw 
Mark Twain warned man never to let schoolwork inter­fere with his education. Jim McGraw would almost agree. 
"The most valuable single phase of my college life has been managing. It's really changed me," he says. But he also admits, "I'm a little dis­satisfied with myself as far as academics is concerned. Even my activities outside the classroom weren't really re­lated to academic study." 
Then he swings back to Mark Twain's side and says, "You can study all you want but only get so much out of books. Activities are the practical experience." 
Jim McGraw, who could easily be mistaken for a foot­ball player himself, "worked up the ladder" of practical experience to become head football manager for the Cot­ton Bowl champs, a position which also made him head of the Student Managers Associ­ation at Notre Dame. "When I came here I wanted to get involved in something, I wanted to broaden my scope beyond the classroom. So I just happened to sign up to be a manager on freshman ac­tivities night." The rest is history. From picking up dirty towels after practice, Jim has gradually assumed responsibilities which last fall found him carrying several thousand dollars in traveling 
expenses. An accounting major, Jim's experiences prove that Notre Dame is a place of many 

tit glibness . . 
Dave Lammers: "This is a very human place. Look at the number of people whose values have grown beyond a desire to merely satisfy themselves." 
facets. "Notre Dame isn't 
just a convocation center 
where you can play twenty 
different sports; it's not just a 
fourteen-story library. I think 
everything is here. There is 
a lot of potential and it's up 
to the individual to get some­
thing out of it." 
Nor does he see this as­
sociation with Notre Dame 
as ending this year. "It's a 
beginning; there's so much 
here which will last. No mat­
ter where you go in the coun­
try there will always be 
someone around from Notre 
Dame. The bond formed here 
lasts forever. TTiat may not 
be the same at other schools." 
This bond has already been 
experienced by Jim in his 
travels as manager. "I've met 
a lot of people all over the 
country. I met Commander 
Bucher twice, and talked with 
the governor of Indiana at the 
Cotton Bowl. There's so 
much more to college in 
meeting other people and 
working with them. This is 
what is important and will 
be even more important 
later." 
In addition to his duties as head manager, Jim is in Air Force ROTC. His primary reason for being in ROTC is not weighted with political philosophy: "It's something I'm interested in. Right now I'm working with other sen­iors to get the cadets ready for summer camp, which will be very important to them." 
Not the type to defend or denounce college politics, Jim says of activism: "I think stu­dent' politics is valuable for the individuals involved, but everyone has his own inter­ests. It's up to the individual how he wants to express him­self." 
Jim McGraw plans to con­tinue expressing himself as an active alumnus in Cincinnati, where he hopes to attend law school. A four-year commit­ment to the Air Force fol­lows, and from there on he is unsure. One can sense in his speech the "beginning" he sees in Notre Dame. For Jim McGraw, May 23 un­doubtedly marked a "com­mencement."—Dave Stauffer •71 
Dave Lammers 
Dave Lammers feels that few people can point to a single event that marked a turning point in their lives, yet he is sure of such an event in his own life: "In the spring of my sophomore year I joined The Observer and for my first story I was assigned to cover the then newly formed non­violence program, and one of the people I interviewed was Prof. Charles McCarthy, who instituted it. We talked for nearly three hours about the theories and practice of non­violence. 
"Until then my life was 
oriented to serving myself; 
my concerns were limited to 
grades, drinking, playing 
basketball and dating. After 
talking with Prof. McCarthy 
that began to change." 
The shift, Dave explains, 
was to a greater social con­
sciousness and recognition of 
the responsibility one must 
feel toward the lives of 
others. "One half the people 
in the world are starving. If 
you take that seriously, if 
it's always in the back of 
your mind, you begin to feel 
the need to do something, to 
be active for people." 
Dave has committed him­self to nonviolence, which means action of both a nega­tive and positive sort. For Dave, to say "no" to service in the armed forces is now, after almost two years of talking and reading in non­violence, a right and neces­sary step. He applied for CO . draft status and makes his point in brief, "I cannot kill men in the name of ideas." In a more positive fashion, he has worked ex­tensively to help organize ar Vietnam Refugee Aid Pro­gram at Notre Dame (see page 4). 
On campus Dave was prob­ably best known as this year's features editor on The Observer. A Government ma­jor from Dayton, Ohio, who intends to write profession­ally, Dave moved from writ­ing news stories as a sopho­more to night editor in his junior year. 
An especially refreshing 
thing about Dave is his belief 
in Notre Dame. He is excited 
talking about the potential for 
change, both in individuals, 
while attending the Univer­
sity, and outside the Univer­
sity, by the concern generated 
here. 

"This a very human place. Look at the number of people whose values have grown beyond a desire to merely satisfy themselves. Personal accomplishment and success are less dominant as the only things that are important. People, especially Notre Dame alumni, will be very surprised at new graduates if they expect the traditional values of God, country, Notre Dame. Happiness and responsibility have new mean­ings and directions that em­phasize charity, love and the peaceful resolution of con­flicts in a very committed way—living and working for an end to human suffering." 
The number of men at Notre Dame with such con­victions about the way to care for the human condition is growing. And among them Dave Lammers is an un­assuming, yet powerfully con­vincing example of the way a person effects changes in people by living his personal philosophy—in this case that men are responsible for ex­tending their capable hands to help other men live, and not to contribute to their deaths. —Christopher Bale '71 
Tony Earley 
All over at last. Four days of cramming formulas and get­ting bleary-eyed over diagram after diagram. Now, back to the room for a little rest. After all, it was only 3 p.m. 
and he did not have to catch the plane that would begin his trip home to Garden City, N.Y., until 7 a.m. the next day. And so Tony Earley, then ending his junior year, hit the sack with a peace of mind that comes only with the finish of final exams, especially when you're major­ing in physics. 
He woke, however, with a touch of fear. After looking [ 
at the clock, the fear turned 
to panic—it was 6:35. He 
packed in record time; ran to 
the Circle and jumped in a 
cab, breathlessly promised 
the driver a big tip if he 
would just get him to the air­
port by 7 o'clock. The cab 
made it, and as Tony hur­
riedly stepped out and began 
to pay him, the cabbie re­
marked, "Nice night for a 
flight." Tony was so em­
barrassed that he sat around 
the airport for an hour before 
taking a cab back to N.D. 
This story typifies a senior 
that is so involved with every­
thing he rarely has time to 
plan his personal life. Besides 
being a physics major and 
carrying a full academic load, 
Tony Earley has found time 
to be Senior Class Secretary, 
a four-year-scholarship mem­
ber of Navy ROTC, and a 
persevering player with the 
varsity tennis team. 
Neither Tony's entrance to Notre Dame nor his aca­demic standing once he ar­rived is a product of mere chance. His dad was a Notre Dame graduate in English, (both have experienced some of the same teachers), and his mother was one of the very few women to attend MIT. Neither father nor son can be classified as "rah­rahs," yet they both manage to love and appreciate Notre Dame while still retaining a completely realistic view of its actions. 
Tony takes this realism with him every Saturday morning when he and a few other students work with the Admissions Office to answer the questions of high school students who are prospective entrants in the Notre Dame community. His task usually evolves around student life— with the queries ranging from ROTC to drugs, and Tony's answers being based on four years' experience in this miniature society. His only problem seems to come while "watching as someone's en­thusiasm to come here keeps getting stronger, and knowing he will probably not be ac­cepted." 
Tony's future, however, belongs to the Navy at this 

Tony Earley: More realist than rah-rah. 
time, and his field of study plus his accomplishments in Frank Esmeralda ROTC have earned him an appointment to Admiral Francisco Esmeralda first Hyman Rickover's nuclear became aware of Notre Dame training school in California. in 1955 when his family was 
But this is all a part of returning to Texas from a Tony Earley; the long after­Michigan migrant camp. He noons of practice at the was 9 years old and was rid­Convo; the nights at the ing in the back of a migrant Library; the Saturday morn­truck when his mother ings at the Dome—all are pointed out the Golden Dome put together to form what his from the highway. roommates call "the easiest Frank is no ordinary Notre person in the world to get Dame senior. He says he has along with. Tony never learned a lot since coming to 
asserts or pushes himself on Notre Dame, but who can anybody, but he is always deny the amount of things he there to give his quiet, steady learned and experienced in opinion." his 15 years as a Mexican-Tony Earley is not a rah-American migrant worker? rah. He is a realist and he For as long as he can re­likes Notre Dame. member Frank and his family That's another plus for picked tomatoes for the flat Notre Dame's future. rate of twelve cents a hamper. Tom Suddes '71 Annually, they traveled 1,600 
Frank Esmeralda: First saw the Dome from the back of a migrai 
miles across the U.S. Frank did his job well. "In 1968, has lived in migrant camps in there were 135 Mexican-Michigan, Indiana, Arkansas, American families in South Missouri, California, Texas, Bend and now there are 245 Illinois and Wyoming. In his families," he says. "I am first 12 years of schooling, proud of this." Then he met Frank attended 14 different Dr. John Kromkowski of the schools. Government Department at After completing high Notre Dame. He and Father school in Palm Springs, James T. Burtchaell, now 
Calif., where his family was Provost, persuaded Frank to finally able to settle down continue his college educa­
permanently, Frank wanted tion. He enrolled as a junior to become produce Government major in the fall 
a mer­chant. But fate had another 
of 1969. view of his future. The Chi-Frank has worked to in­cano families in the area had crease the number of Chicano formed an organization called students at ND with much Sociedad Progresista Mexi-the same success he had in cana. They raised enough South Bend. "When I came money to send one of their here I don't think there were young men to the nearby any more than 10 Chicano Junior College of the Desert. students at Notre Dame and Frank was picked to go. It now there are 33 and more was Frank's father who told coming next year." him that these families had Besides recruiting Chicano 
paid him a great honor and students, Frank has done that it was his duty to accept much to educate the Notre their gift. Dame-South Bend commu­After receiving his junior nity about the culture and college degree in June 1968, lives of Chicanos. He is the Frank joined VISTA. He was founder and first president of sent to South Bend to assist United Mexican-Americans the Chicano migrant workers. (UMA). At Notre Dame he He also helped families want­is vice-president of the ing to settle permanently in League of United Latin Amer­South Bend find suitable em­ican students (LULAC). ployment and housing. Frank As an organizer of MECHA, 
ck. 
Frank is planning a fiesta on the campus on September 11 which will display Mexican-American art and music. In addition to these activities Frank finds time to be the campus representative for VISTA. 
Frank comments on his two years at Notre Dame: "I am pleased that I came here. The students are friendly, in­volved, and have a sense of social consciousness. I think Notre Dame is a great place. I like it here. I don't think it isolates the student from the real world like a campus like Berkeley, where the student is in a world of his own." 
Looking ahead, Frank is optimistic. He is glad he has a good education and thinks he has the proper attitude to improve the lot of his people. "I look around me and see all these things that could be improved and I just know we can improve them."—Jim Morrissey '71 


joe White 

"I've become very attached to this place." Somehow when Joe White 
and gold Stardust in his eyes. 
It is obvious that he has a 
deep feeling for Notre Dame, 
but you can also sense a 
clear-headed objectivity in 
his appraisal of the Univer­
sity. 

Ask him why he came to Notre Dame and he says, "I like to go first class." He assumes that you understand that there was really no other choice. The things that orig­inally drew him to Notre Dame are things that he still likes about the place: the spirit, the smallness of the student body, the fact that it's Catholic. But Joe was also impressed with the financial sacrifices that his father was willing to make to give him a Notre Dame education. "I really dig the old guy," he says as he brushes back a wisp of black hair in an ef­fort to appear unembarrassed. He quickly goes on to talk about the other reasons that he came to the University. "Notre Dame really means people," he says. And it's when he talks about the peo­ple that he's met and worked with here that he begins to lean a little forward in his chair and starts to speak a bit faster. His trim, athletic limbs become more tense. You can tell when he's excited. 
As a member of the Stu­dent-Alumni Relations Group (SARG) he has traveled in Indiana, Illinois and Mich­igan where he has spoken to groups of alumni. "A lot of the 'alums' get riled about some of the things that hap­pen here, but it shows me how concerned they are about this place." 
Joe was also a Resident Assistant in Breen-Philiips. He likes to say that his job was the best thing that has happened to him at Notre Dame because "Whatever's happening at Notre Dame is happening in the halls." He thinks that the most impor­tant aspect of education, the development of the individual personality, is focused around hall life. 
Before he became an RA, 
He has seen a gradual shift in the emphasis of student concern. His constituents used to complain most about things like the food at the dining hall (which, Joe admits, is still bad), but now students are "begiiming to ask the questions of life." Ac­cording to Joe they become interested in one another as people and they worry about how they can maintain their identity and still fit into the complex society. Some of these concerns were seen in last Spring's strike during which students worked in human as well as political action. Still, Joe wonders if a "strike" was necessary. He presents himself as proof that students can keep up with their studies and still make their voices heard politically. He carries a "B" average in the College of Business and has been a student senator, a group leader for the In­
ternational Student Leader­ship Conference, the secre­tary of his Sophomore class, and the business manager of last year's Academic Com­mission. 
But Joe isn't blind to short­comings at Notre Dame. He talks about the need for ren­ovation of some of the halls where cockroaches are fre­quent visitors. He approves of Notre Dame's decision to go co-ed, but he adds that it's not the panacea that many students believe, rather it is a means of rounding out an education and reducing what he calls "male chauvinism." Joe is also afraid that the Trustees don't visit the cam­pus enough to keep a firm grasp of what's going on here and he worries about their ability to make right decisions without that knowledge. 
However, he talks about the future of the University with enthusiasm and with a 


msmM 

says it you don't get the im­Joe was one of the student 
Joe White: "Notre Dame really means people.'
pression that he's got blue senators from Breen-Phillips. 
sense that he is a shareholder in that future. After he grad­uates he wants to become active in the Alumni Club in Nashville where he plans to work for an insurance company. He hopes to be­come the same kind of con­cerned and generous alumnus that he has admired while on SARG, but he thinks that he will be better able to ac­cept change because he's lived through so much of it in the last four years. 
"Everybody com­plains about certain things while they're here," he says, "but sooner or later they realize that it was a great four years." For Joe White the realization just came sooner.—Mike George '72 

Tom Suddes 
It was supposed to be a vic­tory party at the Tom Suddes household across the street from a soft drink bottling plant in South Bend. And it was, of sorts. Tom's younger brother Mike had just captured the 145-pound Bengal Bouts crown at No­tre Dame. But Tom, going for his third straight Bengal championship, had lost in the 150-pound division. He had fought gamely, and would not offer the excuse that his eye had been closed by a stiif right hand in a semifinal bout two days before. 
There were several people Tom wanted to win this bout for: his wife, Trudy, and their baby son, Tom, his mother who had come up from Springfield, 111., and his father who died almost a year earlier. But Tom said it was a good four years and he had much to celebrate. He had been president of the boxing club, he'd gotten to know a lot of guys and most importantly, he came under the guidance and influence of Dominick (Nappy) Napoli­tano, his boxing teacher who has coached Bengal Bouters for 40 years. 
Tom could also celebrate a victory over the academic rigors of Notre Dame. Al­a KO, the odds were not very good from the begin­ning. "I must have been the last in my class to get ac­cepted here," he says with a shy grin. "But I was just glad to get in." 

Once at Notre Dame, Tom became involved in hall gov­ernment and eventually was elected president of Holy Cross Hall. His constituency remained loyal after his mar­riage and often showed up at the Suddes home to sample Trudy's cooking. "After Tommy was born, they came in handy as baby sitters," Tom says. 
"Being married and a stu­dent has its advantages and disadvantages," according to Tom. "But I don't consider my life any different than the life of other students liv­ing off campus." During va­cations back in Springfield (also Trudy's home town). 
however, they had to make decisions not common to un­married students: Which par­ental home would they stay at, where will the Thanksgiv­ing dinner be held, when will the Christmas presents be opened at Tom's and when at Trudy's? 
Two years in the U.S. Army await Tom after grad­uation. He was in ROTC, and is hoping for an appoint­ment to West Point as a box­ing instructor. After his hitch, Tom hopes to get a job in public relations. 
Wherever Tom goes and whatever he ends up doing, he will take with him the enthusiasm he displayed as a hall administrator and club president. He will also carry with him the determination that got him into the boxing ring for the final bout of the Bengals—puffed-up eye and all.—Jim Wagner '71. 
Leaving Notre Dame. A defiance. 
the green shoots of willow bud early water from rising streams 
stands in ditches in fields of coming wheat 
as in the rice paddies of the Yangtze 
in ancient China 
men esteemed their men friends best they wept at partings 
wrote love poems in place of letters 
among our people in this time in this country 
it is forbidden to do either 
by John Hessler valedictorian, Notre Dame Class of 1971 
though the triumph was 

Tom Suddes and family: a married student at ND.
closer to a split decision than 




DH IMgiB: ND Niiis PiRlR htl BBkeM CHd 
Richard (Digger) Phelps, who suc­cessfully coached Fordham to a 26-3 record last season, has been named head basketball coach at ND. He replaces Johnny Dee, who lead the Irish to four straight seasons of 20 wins or more. Dee has returned to law practice in Denver, Colo. 
"This is the realization of a life­
long dream for mc," said Phelps. "It's 
like a little kid wanting to grow up 
and play in Yankee Stadium—I even 
wore a green shamrock on my first 
basketball uniform as a kid and the 
rest of the uniform was purple." 
Phelps, 29, who attracted national attention and the respect of many after turning a 10-15 Fordham quin­tet into a 26-3 NCAA Eastern Reg­ional semi-finalist this past winter, signed a four-year contract with Notre Dame on May 4. 
The Rider College graduate re­flected his basketball ability while helping build the U. of Pennsylvania into a power as freshman coach for four years before moving to Fordham. 
Joining Phelps is 23-year-old Frank McLaughlin, his assistant at Fordham, and Dick DiBiaso, a cage aide at Virginia the past three years. 
Phelps would not commit himself to employing the running, pressuring style which made Fordham the na­tion's Cinderella team in 1970-71. 

Class Botes 
SO-YEAR CLUB ... 
Our sincere hope and prayers are that you are enjoying the best of health and planning to attend the best reunion ever, June 10-13. Let's make it a Big 50-Year Club reunion. 
Phelps 
"I like my kids to play with con­
fidence and try to get the most out 
of each one of them," reasoned 
Phelps. "I like to play man-to-man 
defense and press and we'll try to 
recruit kids who can play that way. 
"A 'kid' is a player no matter 
where he's from, they just have to 
believe in themselves," added Phelps. 
The '71-'72 schedule inherited by Phelps will make believers out of almost anyone. It is rated one of the three toughest nationally. 
The 26-game schedule, including 
BIRTHDAY GREETINGS:—July 3, JOHN U. RILEY Ph.B. '17, Freeport, 04032; July 9, CHARLES C. CONNOLLY '19, 2347 Applegate Ave., Klamath Falls, Ore. 97601; July 12 Rev. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS '18, SL Malachy Rectory, Rantoul, III. 61866; July 14, THOMAS L. MOORE '18, Box 2417, Tulsa, Okla. 74101; July 24, WILLIAM BREEN McDONALD '18, 55 W. 5th Ave., San Mateo, Calif. 94402; July 25, WILLIAM M. CARROLL 
LL.B. '15, 621 W. Judd St, Woodstock, lU. 60098; July 28, GEORGE L. CAVANESS 428 E. 14th St., Tulsa, Okla. 74120; July 29, JAMES G. WALLACE 1132 BeUevue Ave., Syracuse, N.Y. 13204; July 30. BERNARD J. VOLL Ph.D. LL.D. '17, 606 E. Tutt St., South Bend, Ind. 46618; July 30, GEORGE F. FRANTZ LL.B. '17, Fennimore, Wis. 53809; July 31 PAUL FENLON LL.B.-A.M. '19, Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 46S56; Aug. 4, Rev. CHARLES L. DOREMUS CSC '06, Corby 
just 12 home games, features games 
with 12 quintets that played in post­
season tournaments last year and five 
conference champions. 
Phelps, who has just two lettermen 
returning, will face national champ­
ion UCLA twice and NIT king North 
Carolina in Madison Square Garden. 
The Irish, 21-9 last year, handed the 
Bruins their only setback, 89-82. 
The Irish will also play Big Eight 
winner and NCAA semi-finalist Kan­
sas, Southeastern Conference cham­
pion Kentucky and Missouri Valley 
tri-champion Sit Louis in addition to 
Pacific Eight winner UCLA and 
North Carolina, the regular season 
ACC king. 
Notre Dame will also face six 
other NCAA tournament teams — 
Marquette, Duquesne, St John's, 
Fordham, South Carolina and Villa-
nova. NIT teams on the Irish slate 
include Georgia Tech and Michigan 
in addition to the Tar Heels. 
Three new opponents — Tulane, 
Georgia Tech and Bowling Green — 
and traditional Big Ten rivals Indiana, 
Michigan State, Illinois in addition 
to Michigan are also included. The 
Irish cagers will help dedicate In­
diana's new 18,000-seat arena 
December 18. Two other nigged road 
assignments are LaSalle in Philadel­
phia and powerful Dayton. 
Hall, Notre Damp, Ind. 46SS6; Aug. 8, STEPHEN H. HERR C.E. '10. 214 E Hickory St. Chatswortb, III. 60921; Aug. 8, ALVIN H. BERCER Ph.B. 'IS, RR 2, Sturgis, Mich. 49091; Aug. 12, JOHN P. DANT, JR. 'U, 1618 San Helen Dr., Dunedin, Fla. 33528; Aug. 13, RICHARD NASH '12, 2800 Jackson SL Sioux City, la. 51104; Aug. 18, L.D. KESSLAR ChM. '15, 11 Hazard St, West Palm Beach. Fla. 33406; Sept. 3, LOUIS H. FOLLET B.Com. '18, 1303 W. Oak St., Norristown Pa. 19401; Sept 8, WALTER RILEY MILLER, LL.B. '20, 14016 Superior Rd., Cleveland, Ohio. 44118; Sept 29, EDWARD F. RIELY, LLB. '15, Minonk, lU. 61760. 
Yours to the memoiy of STAN COFFAL—submitted by: Rev. C. A. Burns SJ Colombiere College, Clariston, Mich. 
STAN COFFAL:—Never heard of him? —Strange indeed—^Upon my word—^First in line—^To come to fame—Of halfbacks— 
from Notre Dame—He punted, passed, blocked and ran:—^An all-time—All American. Before the Rockne Era, he— Roused Notre Dame—From lethargy. But now he rests—in Soldier's Row—In Flanders Field—Where poppies grow. Casualty— of First World War—He deemed Peace worth while dying for. Memory of those days is dim; That's why you've never heard of him. But in the ND's Trophy Hall, You'll find the name of Stan Collal. C.A.B., SJ. 
RAYMOND J. SCHUBMEHL, M.E., M.S., '21, chairman of the Jubilee Class suggested that with your 50-Year Diploma you be given a 50-Year Club "patch" that you can attach to coat or golf cap. So you be there and get 'cm. Let's really make this Reunion the biggest and best. It will be—If you are there. 
George B. Waage 
3305 Wrightwood Ave. 
Chicago, 111. 60647 
'15 NOTES AN D C.4RDS 

A note from JOHN AHERN Ph.G. '09, Salem, S. Dak., comments on prizefighting and says he lost interest in the sport after the Fitzsimmons-Corbctt era but his interest was awakened by the bigness of the Frazier-Ali fight. He was glad that Ali lost. I share your views, John. 
A number of postcards from STEPHEN 
J. SCHNEIDER M.A. '29, who resides in Milwaukee, attest to the fact that he and his good wife are enjoying their retirement years by traveling, this time to Mexico and South America. He says "getting an early start on a summer tin—enjoying sea breezes on a freighter—only II passengers and good food. Will visit some 17 ports. Approaching Chile now." It's nice to be remembered, Steve. Have fun on your trip. 
A very welcome letter came from ROBERT L. ROACH Ph.B. '15 recently. I hadn't heard from him in some time. His silence, he tells me, was due to illness in the family. Even Bob himself was under the weather for a month or more. "Right now I'm feeling OK." So he reported. 
I share Bob's concern about the radicals and crackpots' "use of the grand old school as a sounding board for their hates and revolutionarj' ideas." Another sad disappointment was the choice of an infamous lawyer by the senior class—a man who is reported in the nation's press to be an out and out advocate of revolution and the destruction of the American system. It is one thing to believe in free speech and another to give evidence of that belief in this way. 
I also share Bob's great love for N D and his admiration and respect for Fr. Hesburgh, but at the same time am worried about some of the trends of the day at our alma mater. 
In an effort to contact DAN E. HILGARTNER Ph.B. '17, some time ago, I was agreeably surprised to get a note from D.C. (Chet) GRANT saying that Dan was in St. Joseph's Hospital for a checkup. A week later Dan himself informed me that this case wasn't serious. I was indeed pleased with the news. A word of caution to members of the old guard that we must take care of ourselves. It was good to hear from you Dan. Let's keep in touch. 
In the course of an exchange of cor­
respondence with the widow of CARLOS GONZALEZ VILLAMIL '13, I learned that his death was quite unexpected. He had received his engineering degree at N D "which was very dear to him." He was employed as an engineer for the same firm for 37 years. Mrs. Villamil expressed gratitude to the University for the beautiful card sent to her and tlie Mass said at ND. I am sure it is very comforting to survivors of ND Alumni to receive the expression of "profound sympathy and the heartfelt belief that the Lady to whom the University is dedicated shall bless and keep him." 
I regret also to report the death of JOSEPH STEPPLER Ph.G. '12 in Highland, Wis., on Aug. 26, 1970 at the age of 82. He was employed by the Flathead National Forest for 33 years, after .serving in the 
U.S. Army during World War I. His retirement years were spent in Highland. He was a member of the Kalispell American Legion and the Association of Retired Civilian Employees. He is survived by two sisters and a brother, Paul, who resides in the Highland. 
Another alumnus and dear friend passed away on April 15, after a lingering illness. 
T.N. (Ted) FEYDER LL.B. '14 was a longtime and well-known attorney in Sioux Falls, S.D. The funeral Mass was celebrated at St. Joseph's Cathedral. A parish .scripture service was held at the funeral home followed by a Catholic Daughters of America Rosary and a Knights of Columbus Office for the Dead. He was an honorary life member of the K of C's. Survivors are the widow, three sons, Ted Jr., Thousand Oaks, Calif., James, Sioux Falls; Charles, Hibbing, Minn.; Four daughters, Mrs. Dale Corcoran, Honolulu; Mrs. John Myers, Sioux Falls; Mrs. Thomas Brown, Palos Verdes, Calif, and Eileen Feyder, Sioux Falls; 25 grandchildren and 5 great­grandchildren. 
Another belated death to report is that of WILLIAM L. BECKHAM '41-'42 who resided at 2829 Rockwood Place, Toledo. Ohio. His son JOHN J. BECKHAM '50 informed me that his father always held ND close to his heart and was proud to be an Alumnus! 
Eternal rest grant to these fine men, O Lord, and let perpetual light shine upon them. 
In a letter from Mr. and Mrs. HENRY 
J. FRAWLEY Ph.B. '14, ivho reside on a large ranch near Spearfish, So. D., sor­row was expressed for the loss recently of a mutual and long time friend, T.N. (Ted) Feyder, whose death is reported herein. Henry's wife, Annie, writes that "We are having a Mass Jsaid at N D for Ted. Re­cently Fr. McAiilifi'e sent us a box of Golden Treasury cards. We give our support for the seminarians and elderly priests. We frequently hear from Fr. McAulilfe. He taught HENRY, JR. '60 for the choir." 
The following poem was in The Epis­copalian magazine and speaks for itself: RENEWAL 
// all the sleeping folks will wake up. And the lukewarm folks will fire up. And all the dishonest folks will confess up. And all the disgruntled folks will sw'eelen up. And all the discouraged folks will cheer up. And all the depressed folks will look up. And all the estranged folks will make up, And all the gossipers will shut up. And all the dry bones will shake up. And all the true soldiers will stand up. And all the church members will pray up. And the Savior for all is lighted up. Then You can have the world's greatest renewal. 
By Jlichard Cardinal Gushing. 
Albert A. Kuhle 
117 Sunset Ave. 
LaGrange, 111. 60525 
16 SALAZAR DIES 
EMILIO R. SALAZAR CE '16 died of a heart attack April 18 at his home, 1400 Fremont Ave., Apt. 2, South Pasadena, Calif., 91030. Emilio was the youngest of four children. His father was a doctor in Havana, Cuba. Emilio sent his four chil­dren to the U.S. to be educated. While his children left Cuba when departure was not too difficult, he, his wife and one daughter had to wait two years to be "freed" and arrived in the U.S. in 1968. 
In his early life he made great progress and was happy for the 30 years that he was vice president of the Sinclair Oil Co. for the islands. He was allowed nothing when he "escaped." His car, money, home and personal belongings had to be given to Cuba before he and his wife could leave. He dearly loved the U.S. and N D and only recently advised us that his wife's health did not permit attending his N D 55th reunion this year. 
Grover F. Miller 
1208 S. Main St. 
Racine, Wis. 53403 
'17 JOURNALISTS NEEDED 
According to the latest class roster, there are six living '17ers who majored in jour­nalism. Will one of you nice guys please step forward and take over the class column for the remainder of the year and give your secretary a rest? Of course you do not have to be a journalist; all you really need is a dictionarj'—or just an old beat-up Underwood. This magazine has a staff of good proofreaders. 
Although it is only March at this writ­ing, old Debbil Deadline says it's time to talk about the reunion on June 11, 12 and 13; even if it is not our year, need we say again that the days are getting shorter for all of us? BERNARD VOLL, our class president will be around for sure and BILL GRADY from Dallas, never misses, and what is more fun than to swap lies about the good old days or hop a campus bus and see all of the wonderful new buildings and improvements. The ideal way is to make a date now with your old roomie or some classmate to be sure of a campus pal during the reunion. 
CORREC-nON: ED RYAN of Rock­ford, 111., declares that he, a freshman, and his brother, FRANCIS, a senior had ad­joining rooms in 1913 in Snoring Hall, so your secretary has found out once again that it is never too late to learn. 
It is always interesting to know how one happened to go to ND. PAUL FOGARTY was a guest of RED MILLER just two weeks after Red, PETE VAUGHAN and COZY DOLAN and the rest of that great team beat Michigan for the Western Championship. After the game he went back to the locker room and saw a great fight between two nude players, BOB MATTHEWS and DON HAMILTON, until the coach stopped them. Matthews claimed Hamilton always carried the ball near the goal line to show off to his South Bend 

girl. Boy, this is the place for me, Paul 
said to himself. Lots of action here. 
How did you decide to attend our Alma 
Mater? 
Are there any Seventeeners who have 
never been back for a reunion? If you 
join us and come, you will never believe 
what you see, except good old Snoring 
Hall. 
Did you see the ND basketball team 
beat UCLA on TV? It was a beautiful 
color job. We thought we would hear 
from at least two or three of you, sports­
men. What does it take to arouse you 
these days? A case of Old Fitzgerald? 
We are just going along telling stories of the good old days that most of you must have heard, with the hope that some of our affluent classmates who have been in Florida or Arizona for the winter, will write soon and tell us about the big one that got away or their best low gross score, which reminds us of what PAUL FOGARTY said, "1 play golf four days a week and spend the other three trying to figure out what is wrong with my game." JOHN RILEY, alias The Duke, looking like a millionaire and who may be one by this time, flew from Portland, Me., to a dude ranch in Arizona and must be the winter distance champ. 
Dear Father Schumacher, prefect of stud­ies for many years, would only let 10 or 12 students in at a time but the easiest credit in the Prep School Department, was Prof. Worden's class in free hand drawing, water color painting and sculpture. His studio under the roof of the Main Bldg. on the fourth floor was known as Siberia by the Carrollites and who do you think was the monitor when the prof did not show? A great big handsome guy named CY WILLIAMS, a senior architect, and champion home run hitter on the varsity baseball team and later on the Chicago Cubs. 
Good old HARRY SCOTT once said at a reunion bull session, "If you put all of the men together in a single file line, who claim to have helped burn down the Hill St. car, the line would extend from South Bend to Chicago and back again." Do you agree? Were you a participant or a spectator? Or as the girls behind the counter at the dime store used to say, "Is youse preparatory or collegate" What a story teller! 
Are there any surviving members of the Sunday Afternoon Poker Club that met in a tower room of Snoring Hall, registered in the name of CUZ CUSICK, DUCKY O'DONNELL and SHORTY MCLAUGH­LIN? The starting time was when the bell in the big church tolled for Sunday ves­pers at 3 p.m. and they didn't quit until two or more went broke, and it was not penny ante either. It was rumored that the rector, Walter Lavin CSC, also known as "The Kid" because he was a lightweight in stature and weight, used to sit in after vespers for a few hands, because he liked to gamble. 
We have some sad news for some of you swingers, if there are any left among the 'IVers. The building in which Sweeney's Shamrock Cafe has been located for so many years, will soon be razed. This recalls the day in 1943 when Michigan came to play us in football and Frank Hogan, the popular head linesman of the decade, plugged the big juke box so it would only play the "Victory March" or "Praise the Ixjrd and Pass the Ammuni­tion," regardless of the piece you selected. 
Please remember in your prayers the souls of Judge HARRY F. KELLY, who died unexpectedly in Florida on Feb. 8, and of DANIEL C. CURTIS, who passed away Nov. 4, 1970. Expressions of sym­pathy may be sent to HARRY P. Jr., '53, 4263 Colony Club Dr., Port Clinton, Ohio, and to Dan's daughter, Mrs. Jane Anderson, 629 N. Lafayette St., South Bend, Ind. 
The annual March reunion of trans­planted 'IVers started with a cocktail party at the CHARLES BACHMANs in Pompano Beach; then the HUGH O'NEILLs had a dinner party for all at the Coral Ridge Country Club in Ft. Lauderdale, and the following day the ARTHUR BERGMANs (Little Dutch) had the crowd for lunch at the Pier 56 Hotel.' Besides the hosts, the PAUL FOGARTYs, Mrs. JACK MEAGHER, JOE FLYNN, BILL RED­DEN, Marie and HUNK ANDERSON and the BILL BELLs, '25, were among those present. 
That great little old two miler, JOHNNY REYNOLDS, alias the Rev. M. Simon, O.C.S.O., Our Lady of Guadalupe Trap­pist Abbey, Lafayette, Or., was 77 years young on April 8. Congratulations and it's not too late for a card with a check to help keep the medicine cabinet full of what keeps him going. A great little guy, indeed. The BILL GRADYs of Dallas were in Honolulu for Easter, where they have a married daughter on the island of Kauai, and then on to Fiji and Samoa. Don't forget the reunion. Bill. 
Today we close the books, April 25, for the June issue with the hope that you will take a few minutes to tell us about the big one you caught this summer or your low gross score so the 1917 class news column will not be a blank in the September issue. 
Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr. 1701 Turtle Creek Drive, North South Bend, Ind., 46637 
'18 RED CARPET OUT 
Sincerely hope that you are all enjoying the best of health and will attend the greatest reunion this June. ND has the red carpet out awaiting your return to the cam­pus. WILLIAM J. ANDRES is really op­posed to ND going coed. He'll have a chance to express his objections this June. JOHN J. VOELKERS spent his birthday in S.B. John will no doubt make the Monogram dinner. LAMBERT Q. SENG will be unable to be at 50-year club dinner as he has a grandson being married the nth. Bert will be on hand the 12th. Don't think FRANK X. RYDZEWSKI can make it this year. He still has trouble walking and his wife Lorraine is recover­ing from a sick spell. However 'Big Frank' is still popular, getting mailed requests for his autograph, photo and highlites of his career. They come from as far away as Vermont. Wondering if WALTER RILEY MILLER and GBW's Sorin Hall Subway roommate had an ad in a Polish paper telling 'em how good a football player he was 50 years ago. MAX KAZUS will be missed as he will be unable to leave his wife, Marie, who since her bad fall is still not in the best of health. A.A. (Water Boy) STARRETT writes he does not ex­pect to be able to return this June. Lot of us sure would like to see Morrie. GEORGE E. HARBERT seriously doubts 
he can make this year's reum'on. "At present time our hospital is about half way done and hopefully I am half way through my job as president of the hospital board." Let's hope Ed and the Mrs. will be able to make it Nice notes from: JOSEPH F. FLYNN, LL.B. '17. His wife Annette, who is not enjoying the best of health, is showing improvement. 
Joe wrote: "We had a fine get-together a few days ago with CHARLEY BACH­MAN, DUTCH BERGMAN, PAUL FO­GARTY, HUNK ANDERSON, BILL REDDEN arid Mrs. Meagher, wife of JACK MEAGHER who died about two years ago." No doubt it was this party that JOHN LEMMER and Phyllis missed while on their way back home after spending the winter in Florida. WHITEY WHALEN and Rosemary are not on any long tours this year. Hope to see 'em both this June. Mighty nice people. Long time no word from 'Judges' JOSEPH T. RILEY of Muskegon or WILLIAM H. KELLEY Jr. and Eleanor of Palm Beach. WILLIAM (Texas Bill) GRADY '17 and Mary must be parting with some of that 'Texas liquid gold' to do Island hopping around Hawaii. Quote: "daughter and kids with us here for Easter breakfast. Not sure maybe Japan again." Bill and Mary will be at reunion. We all will be looking forward to enjoying Fr. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS' company. Sure hope You will make this Reunion. Don't miss Friday nite 50-year club dinner. Bring the Mrs. She will be honored, will be given a badge, can attend both dinners 
with you and can stroll or bus (campus provided) around the interesting old and new points of interest. Too late to put it off until next year. Maybe we won't make it again, we're pushing eighty, so let's make it a Big 1918 get-together and make this 50-year club reunion one never to be forgotten. Looking forward to seeing you. 'The Good Lord Willing' maybe some of us will make 100. PEACE. 
George B. Waage 3305 Wrightwood Avenue Chicago, 111., 60647 
'20 WOULD INVITE \vroO\VS 
Our beloved and admired friend. Rev. ARTHUR J. HOPE CSC passed away Feb. 
9. He was the author of Notre Dame One Hundred Years. He attended graduate studies at Gregorian U in Rome. He was honored with a Ph.D. in 1923 and a doc­torate in sacred theology in 1927. His ordination followed in April 1927. He was assigned to the U of Portland and again in New Orleans, La. He later served as assistant editor of Ave Maria as well as editor of Providence Review, a CSC news­letter. We regret his passing from our midst. 
Genevieve O'Toole sent a post card from Arizona saying it was her first vacation in two years after GENE OTOOLE's death. She sent her best wishes to our classmates of 1920. It has occurred to me that many widows of former members of 1920 have a strong interest in ND and, more particularly, our present members, whom they knew. They are shut off from the pleasures they once enjoyed discussing the remarkable changes in ND over the past SO years. I would like response through this report to our class as to their thoughts of inviting these women to a class meeting at the University. I would be most ap­
preciative if these wives would send an expression as to their desire to, once again, visit the old and the astounding new ND again. Many, I feel sure, have never returned since their husbands left them. Our annual reunion, five years from now is too long a wait for most of us, and a date should be arranged during reunion week in the meantime. During June 1971 many have expressed the desire to return to repeat the enjoyable reunion of 1970 and, perhaps, they should register early at the Morris Inn. 1 will send a list to our members of those who so desire. 
JOHN BALFE has dedicated his time to two very worthy causes. One is the alleged decline in the religious atmosphere now existing at ND. Our values of life and the influence of the men of our day, especially upon our children, were made meaningful from the religious atmosphere at ND. John alleges that this atmosphere has deteriorated today at ND and little attention is paid to do away with the material atmosphere now permitted to grow. John sent an article to the Neu' York Times and Wall Street Journal point­ing out that by a single vote New York State passed an abortion law. The legis­lation that made the decision was rejected in the following election. In all Catholic churches in the Rochester Diocese today parishioners are asked to support the Donovan-Crawford Bills which will restore the protections of former laws to both mother and child. Should you be faced with the New York State law on abortion, Balfe will be glad to arrange that literature on this subject is available. 
JAMES H. BRENNAN died suddenly on March 5 at Pompano Beach, Fla. Jim was president of the ND Club of Chicago in 1931. Having a successful insurance business, he was very active as an ND follower in all University activities. His Florida home was at 3530 N.E. 23rd St., Pompano Beach. Jim and his wife, Edyth, had one son and two daughters, 17 grand­children and one great-grandchild. They will im'ss the charm and influence of Jim, as will others who knew him. 
James H. Ryan 
2427 East Ave., Apt. 314 
Rochester, N.Y. 14610 

'21 DUFFY'S L.4ST COLUMN 
This is the last column jroni DAN W. DUFFYt long time secretary of the Class of '21. He died May 1 of a heart attack. He is survived by his widow, Welda, at tlie Colonial Hotel, 523 Prospect Ave., Cleve­land, Ohio. He was an attorney and presi­dent of the Cuyahoga County board of electioits. Funeral services were held May 4. 
From JIM GLOVER of 19 Murray Street, New Britain, Conn.: "I keep getting letters from you about ND and our class reunion. The truth is I was only a prep student at ND and we preps knew few of you college 
men. My pals, TOM McDONOUGH, BILL STEVENS have long since died. I lost 
track of JOE BIRMINGHAM and if he is contacted and going to the reunion let me know. I sure would like to see him again. Now you can understand why a year ago when you sent me a note I answered and asked if I had met you on a cruise. I have retired from teaching in New Britain, am still a bachelor and thank God enjoying life. Here's hoping the reunion is a success. I hope some day to return and see how the place has grown. 
I remember "The King" in charge of the 
new Walsh Hall where 1 lived but heard he 
has passed on to his reward." 

From HARRY J. McLELLAN of 9910 
Hope Circle N. Sun City, Arizona 85351: 
"You are now about to read a letter 
from the worst correspondent of the Class 
of 1921, and that is really a record. It 
is always nice to read about our mutual 
friends, although some of the news is 
bad. A good many of our classmates have 
passed on, God rest their souls, but it 
is nice to hear about the ones still around, 
and Dan it is always nice to receive your 
mail. First things first, sorry but don't 
think 1 can make the 50th, but we are 
in the process of building, and completion 
date is about that time, in second or third 
quarter, but remember me to all our 
friends. Just wrote Schub, he is ofiicially 
completing his fiftieth year, but they don't 
know about the two or three years of 
teaching before graduation. Dan, now a 
run down on Sun City. Retired from ND 
in June '64 and moved down here in the 
fall of '64, and a population of about 
8,000 now about double and you never 
saw so many older people together at same 
place and same time. Strictly a retirement 
area, 50 or older, with any recreation 
facilities you would want. They are now 
building the fifth. 18 hole golf course, which 
is the big attraction for many, but anything 
else is available. Going to celebrate our 48th on April 2, Schub was our best man. Daughter is in Toledo, with three girls. The oldest graduates from university this year and is to be married a month later, next is pre-med in second year and the youngest also is graduating. 
"Another daughter is in Henderson, Nev., near Las Vegas, with two boys and two girls, 4 to 14. Our son, JAMES C. '62, a CSC priest was ordained in Rome, in '65, and is studying in Germany now, hopes to be home for Christmas this year. Well Dan guess that takes care of what little news there is here. Have seen VINCE HANRAHAN and JAY DOLAN from 1922. There is one other ND'er but lost his name and address so haven't been able to contact him. Think he was in pharmacy a few years after us. Again Dan give my best to all the '2Iers." 
From HAROLD FOLEY: "Thank you for the Christmas greetings. 1 hope you and your family have a wonderful 1971. 1 will do my best to see you at the 50th Reunion. It seems impossible that 50 years could have elapsed since ND turned me out. We have four grandchildren. Our oldest daughter, Marie Alleman, who lives in New York has a boy and a girl aged 4 and 9. Our youngest daughter, Fran I.ewis who lives in Bangkok, Thailand, has a boy and a girl, aged 8 and 3. Fran and her family spent Christmas with us. With our residence in Vancouver we are in between our two daughters and their families. 
"Normally we go to ND twice a year for the trustee meetings so we have kept pretty close to the activities and progress the University is making. Certainly Father Hesburgh and his associates are held in very high esteem. This past Sunday I spent the morning with a young Vancouverite who is a freshman in ND. He finds some areas where he thinks improvements might occur but, on balance, he felt it was the finest university a young man could go to. He feels the student body is above aver­age. The mixing of young men from all states and countries gives a person 
a chance to broaden. He feels that the student body is a sound core which is rather unusual in today's world. I was very sorry to hear about PETE CHAM­PION. He and BRYCE, who passed away three or four years ago, and I roomed on the first floor of Walsh Hall for most of our years at Notre Dame." From Dr. JOSEPH V. HEIMANN: "Would enjoy the 50th but I don't know. Gee! that's a long time. Grandchildren are: Joyce Ann Heimann, 3'A; Margaret Mary Heimann, 2'/5 and Joseph Vincent Heimann, ivi. I am sure in five or six years they would get a kick from seeing their names in print. Idella says hello." 
From A. E. SHERIDAN, Sheridan Build­ing Waukon, Iowa 52172: "In re Notre Dame Party, 1 have your fine letter giving me history of the events. I am sorry to tell you that I cannot be present, as much as 1 would like to be, at the party. My wife and I are enjoying our 50th wedding anniversary on June 21, and we have decided to take our two daughters and their husbands on a trip to Spain, the Mediterranean and Africa. As you know, these are our only two living children. My only son who was practicing law with me, passed away. I certainly will be with you in spirit and hope you have a fine get-together. Kindest personal regards to all." 
'22 PLAN FOR '72 
The time is now ripe to start making plans to attend our gala Golden Anniver­sary celebration at ND in 1972. It is very urgent that we start the ball rolling now because much has to be done to assure a successful campaign to have a turn-out comparable to those in earlier years, when our numbers were greater. It could be that many of '22 just do not relish the present ND image, and little wonder! Let us, as a starter, determine that we are not going to stay at home and sulk, but that we shall return to our beloved campus to discuss the situation and to prescribe remedies. We could parade, carry placards and banners, and even bum our out-dated alumni cards. Of course, since our South Bend group always handles most of the local details, we look to such men as RANGY MILES, HAROLD WEBER, PAUL SCHWERTLEY, WAL­TER SHILTS, PAT MANION and others for leadership in our campus operations. In past years, they have never failed us, and they will come through again, when we arrive on the campus. At present, noth­ing is more important than deciding that God willing, our presence is needed and wanted at our Golden Anniversary Reunion in '72. If you have already "sold yourself on attending our 50th, then you can start working on your '22 class­mates. 
Here is a note from MRS. DAN COUGHLIN of 408-2nd St., N.E. of Waseca, Minn. 56093. In part it reads: "It will be eight years next month (January) since Danny died. I have stayed in my little home . . . prefer it to an apartment. Time has passed quickly. I "sub" at a "Style Shop", and am quite busy at this time of year. I spent Thanksgiving in Detroit and Christmas with Danny's sister here. For three winters, I have gone to visit my sister in Los Angeles." 
DAN YOUNG was struck in the eye by a golf ball while playing in Florida 

during the winter season, and seven stitches were required to close the wound. Luckily no permanent eye damage was suffered, and presently Dan is busy raising divots on his favorite golf course in Drexel Hill, Pa. R. GERALD JONES who retired from Navy service in June 1970 now lives at 1014 6th St., Navato, Calif., 94947. Why not give him a ring at 415-897-7984? Jerry's daughter Judy is married to Dr. Richard Sullivan and they now reside in the old Jerry Jones homestead in San Mateo, Calif. JIM JONES and wife Bema­dine returned to their home city of Rochester, N.Y. on April I from their winter Florida stay. 
Gerald (Kid) Ashe 
175 Landing Road, North 
Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
•23 POSTMAN RANG THRICE 
Requiescat . . . JOHN J. GRANFIELD, Jan. 11. Survived by his wife, two sons, a brother and sister. A letter to the family brought no information beyond that. A note in a class directory said "attended here 1919." Home address 40 Plymouth Rd.. Longmeadow, Mass. 
Dr. LINDSEY BLAYNEY, LL.D.'23. March 13. Address Marine-on-St. Croix, Minn. His widow Ida W. writes: "Thank you so much for your thoughtfulness. \Vc appreciate it. Lindsey's brief biography is in Who's Who. Honorary degree from Catholic 
U. for his work against the KKK." The last class directory '67, does not include his name. It is possible the degree was honorary. Does anybody recall? 
Mrs. AnnaG. NYIKOS, 1661 N. Riverside Dr., South Bend. Yes, JOE's wife. She died in her sleep and was buried on St. Patrick's Day. Our class treasurer has been hit hard twice. LOUIE BRUGGNER was a lifelong friend and neighbor. One of the penalties for the privilege of living long is to feel the sadness that visits our friends. 
The Postman Rang Thrice . . . ED KREIMER, updating the directory, would like PAUL CASTNER or TOM LEE to check the well-being of FREDERICK. A. STEELE B.S. '23, M.S. '26. Last address was 744 E. Nevada, St. Paul, Minn. Ed mourns the passing in Ft. Wayne of the Vim Sporting Goods Store operated by LES LOGAN and later by his son. It once ranked among the top 10 in the nation in sales volume. .. . Ed reports that 50 percent of our class contributed to the SUM MA Drive, says that is "not bad considering the percentage who are retired." 
Other figures in a recent ALUMNUS list only 43 of 122 members of the Class of '23 contributing to the Alumni Fund. 1 think there might be an explanation. Since the SUMMA drives began, the Alumni Fund has become a sort of stepchild. 1 couldn't say whether 1 was included among the 43; and there may be many others. Perhaps a clarification by the Alumni Association might improve our percentage as well as those of other classes. And give our class agent JOE DONALDSON some help in getting out this vote. 
HARRY FLANNERY: "Those little Irishmen used on ND souvenirs these days remind me of such a character 1 used on a poster in our day, and was castigated for making an Irishman look like a monkey. . . . First I heard of Flanner Hall. I'm tempted to a bad pun. Why not a Y on the end?" Okay, Flan. Y not? 
And there's always COLONEL DORIOT who trails missives as he moves from Cape Cod to St. Petersburg, Chicago, South Bend (and where else?) matching roommates. That's his current business MATCHING ROOM-MATES, Inc., Brookline, Mass. I wonder if he got the idea from the room­mate Rockne matched him with, MAX HOUSER, in the old field house. Max would feign nightmares and chase Doriot all over the old gym. He wants to know what we're planning for '73 and if ROG KILEY, JOE DONALDSON, GEORGE PATTERSON, DANNY CULHANE and JUDGE CARBERRY will be with us. 
Re-YOU-yon . . . Well, Colonel, glad you asked. Kreimer reports everybody is planning. About the time you'll be reading this, RED SHEA, KREIMER, JOE NYIKOS, JACK NORTON and I hope to be going over the plans for '73 during the '71 Reunion. We'll come up, among other things with a committee to beat the drums in geographical areas. RED's idea of almost any committee from our group is "ANY­BODY WHO'S STILL ALIVE." So there's the word of our leader. Everybody. And if you happen to be on campus Friday, June 11, join anybody who's still alive in the Morris Inn dining room. 
Query .. . 1 had originally intended to include herein some reunion memories. But here we are with the editorial pencil poised; so let's close with the question of the day: 
IVhat doth it profit a man or an institution or a country to gain the whole world and lose his immortal sold? 
Francis Wallace 
4615 Guernsey St. 
Bellaire, O. 49306 
'24 NOM1N.4TIONS NEEDED 
From the news desk we report that the nominations for class officers show a surprising lack of interest. The candidates are not even denying their intention to be candidates. Maybe we should put it this way: If you have a friend you want to stimulate to a little activity, just send his name. We will find the other five endorsers and he will be in the race. Maybe the original slate proposed by the election board headed by ED CANTWELL is so formida­ble that anyone else is reluctant to expose himself or his friends. This leads to a slight editorial digression. These candidates them­selves have not clearly defined their stand on current issues. Father Hesburgh's editorial in a recent issue of ALUMNUS was a masterpiece. He redeemed my personal full confidence in ND after a bothersome period of doubt about the handling of student dissension. The ALUMNUS was also full of letters from older Alumni who showed the same dissatisfaction (as they saw it from the dim views of the distant spectator). If you missed Father Hesburgh's explanation of the ND position, it is worthwhile looking up the December issue of ALUMNUS and reading it. It is enlightening and invigorating to those, like me, who might be frustrated with a situation we could not feel comfortable about. For myself, 1 will be satisfied to run on his platform as elucidated. 
Had some good newsy letters from BILL O'ROURKE '25 and PAUL ROMWEBER '25. These old buddies-in-adventure at ND in our student days must excuse me from further details . . . protocol, for Class Notes of '24. The implication of "buddies-in­adventure" is open to personal interpretation 
to those who knew us well. CHARLIE ROBRECHT, Ch.E. -24 and 
M.S. '26 has notified ALUMNUS of a new address, 1050 Keyes Ave., Winter Park, Fla. 32789. It sounds like retirement from the active metropolitan life around New York and New Jersey. Is it, Charlie? Others with local address changes are FRANK. O'BOYLE of Dayton; JIM HURLEY of LaSalle, III., and JOHN GOTUACO of Manila, P.I. We can presume that address changes at our age are very apt to mean a change in activity also. It would be interesting to publish in Class Notes the experiences and feelings of retirement of any who will drop me a line on this topic. After all we are sort of graduating again. This time from active business or professional life to a new role. God forbid that we live in memories alone. We are simply into another stage of life .. . a very interesting one . . . the goal toward which some have toiled; the end of the road for others. Perhaps some who traveled farthest from '24 to '71 may find it most difficult to reverse directions; to take their foot off the gas and apply it to the brake. What do you know, personally, that we can all benefit from and enjoy hearing about. 
Somebody had the nerve to send me a litUe booklet tided "How to Guess Your Age" by Corey Ford. I don't know how old he is, but I'll bet he was in the Class of '23 or earlier from the experiences he refers to, like having to back half way out of a phone booth to read the number on the coin box .. . he just needs new glasses, that's all. I'll also bet he even wonders if it's worthwhile getting back to his class reunion (I don't know where he went to school). He might not feel so well when he gets there from all the difficulties of travel. I'll bet he would miss his favorite drowsing chair. Well, these are his problems, not mine. Mine are little problems like reaching my shoe laces, checking my bathroom scales, and trying to find a mirror like they used to make where you could really tell if you had a close shave; or printing like they used to print where you wouldn't have to squint to make out the words. I'll bet he would find if he went back to ND he would see grown-up students, not like the kids I see in the local colleges nowadays. 
An anonymous contributor who read about Dr. J. F. COVA '24 and his six-year stint at ND to get a degree, and his later marriage in '34 in the Log Chapel, sent a sympathetic protest questioning the justice of changing a six-year term to "life" ten years later. 
Back to our class officer candidates, we want to know where they stand before we vote. 
James P. Durcan 
5400 S.W. Scholls Ferry Rd. 
Portland, Ore. 97225 
'25 GOLD KEY 
CLARENCE W. HARDING, director of public relations for the South Bend, Ind., Tribune was presented the Gold Key Award of the Columbia Scholastic Press Associa­tion, N.Y., at a luncheon attended by 4,000 young journalists in March at the annual meeting of the Association in New York. It was given in recognition of Harding's work in encouraging school editors through projects of the American Newspaper Publishers Association. He served as chairman of ANPA's public relations 
committee from I960 to 1968. Hearty congratulations to JOHN WILLIAM COURTNEY on the announce­ment of his marriage to Mrs. Genevieve Frances HuUer of Michigan City, Ind., on March 12, I97I, at Sacred Heart Church, No.tre Dame. 
CHARLES C. COLLINS sent a fine letter covering "Chuck" and his family and 1 hope it inspires more of our classmates to do the same: "As the saying goes, 'I have been an avid reader of your 1925 Class notes.' My only contribution to your column is reading about our classmates, which makes me an avid reader but with no contribution. It is true that in my travels in connection with the freight forwarding business after coaching, I did see or talk to many of our '25ers, but did not relay the news to you. I was in St. Louis in 1947 and in a jovial mood called Dr. FABIAN BURKE, his wife answered that he had been buried that morning. He was the victim of a hit and run motorist. Since that time I have been cautious about my contacts with our classmates. I will skip the years of coaching football and the years in the transportation business and come to my present status in the event that you have to fill up your 
column. I am practicing law in Ridgewood. NJ., with two sons, CHARLES, Jr. '55 and EDMOND A. '64. The Law School at NO in our time was later criticized as not being adequate under the direction of Dean Konop. Strange as it may seem, 1 think that the Law School had some merit. At the age of 62, I sat down with recent college graduates and secured my license to practice law in the state. There is no reciprocity in New Jersey and my Illinois license did me no good. Incidentally only 45.3 percent of the applicants secured admission to the bar. Enough said for our carefree days at the Law School at ND. With regard to our family, we have three sons and one daughter. All three of the sons graduated from ND, Charles, Jr., DAVID E. '56 and Ed. All of them graduated from Harvard Law School, the first two with the highest 
honors, the third one with the dubious honor of being the greatest handshaker. Charles, Jr., is my senior partner in this law firm. David E. is making too much money to join us. He is an attorney with Johnson & Johnson Company and has recently been elected secretary of that corporation. Ed has returned from a tour of duty in Vietnam, serving in the judge advocate general's office, and should rejoin us in September of this year. To follow tradition, all three sons married Newton College girls and Penny, our daughter is a finalist in the Merit Scholarship Award program this year and will attend Newton College in the coming year. My good friends tell me my wife, Nell, U. of North Carolina, 1927, is the one to take credit for the academic accomplishments of our children. Though they may criticize the Law School of our era, I must have learned persuasiveness. I was able to talk a beautiful and lovely southern gal into marrying me and incidentally she is still married to me." 
Through the Alumni office we learned of the death of Dr. EUGENE A. HAUBER of 198 Washington Rd., Sayrcsville, NJ., on Feb. 12. Add GENE to your list of classmates for prayers. HANK WURZER will have a class Mass said for Gene. Our deepest sympathy to his wife and family. 
John P. Hurley 2085 Brookdale Rd. Toledo, Ohio 43606 '27 NEWS NEEDED 

To be candid, I have no news to report for this issue. 1 received the April-May issue a day or two ago. The class notes are filled with references to the various reunions which are being held this June. We, of course, have no official reunion this year but I do want to point out that we will have one scheduled for 1972—our 45th. 1 know we are all looking forward to our golden jubilee which will occur in 1977, and everyone will make a special effort to attend that one. 1 must point out, however, that unfortunately the ravages of time will render it impossible for many who come to ND in 1972 to do so in 1977. Every five-year gathering now takes on greater importance. We will be handicapped in making and carrying out plans for our 1972 reunion due to the lack of a president. I am sure, however, that efforts will be correlated to such an extent that the event will be successful as similar events have always been. 
1 have not heard from anyone lately so apparently everybody is in good shape. I did receive a St. Patrick's day card from ART MONACO and know that he is well. 
If anyone has any news, please do not hesitate to pass it along. 
Clarence J. Ruddy 111 W. Downer Place Aurora, Illinois 60504 
'28 PARTY IN FLORIDA 

BILL DAILY reported on the Class of 1928 luncheon reunion at the Yardarm in Pompano Beach, Fla., on March 4 and sent pictures which I will include in my next mailing. This very successful get-together was "hatched" by GLENN HATCH and was planned with the assistance of Bill Daily and DICK QUINLAN. The following classmates, in addition to Glenn, Bill and Dick, were also present: CECIL ALEXANDER, NEIL AMIOT, ED DIRINGER, AUGIE GRAMS, RAY LUSSON, ED McKEOWN, HOWARD PHALIN, ANDY POWERS, DUTCH RIEDER, JOHN ROBINSON and SWEDE SCHROEDER. ART DENCHFIELD and HARRY KRIMM had unexpected interference with well-laid plans to attend. Guests were FRANK McDONOUGH '41, Mayor of Lighthouse Point, Fla., FRANK McFADDEN '25, FRANK McGlNN '52, Director Alumni Association and GEORGE LAUGHLIN '25. Regrets and best wishes were received from A. GORDON BENNETT, who recently retired and lives at 
2950 Palo Aire Dr., Pompano Beach, Fla. 33060; from DAVE SMITH and JOHN WALLACE, Franklin-West Towers, 7250 Franklin Ave., Los Angeles, Calif. 90046. 
Bill reports that Glenn Hatch chaired the affair in an excellent fashion. The "name, rank and serial number" routine went along smoothly until Ed Diringer was reached. He dropped a few jaws when he announced that he had recently married his grandson's mother-in-law. As you know, Ed lost his first wife several years ago. 
Since this Florida reunion was such a success, like other '28 Class innovations, it will be an annual affair. Mark your 1972 calendar for the first Thursday in March (March 2) and make plans accordingly for the second Florida reunion. If you haven't moved to Florida by then, plan your winter vacation to coincide. Three of the attendants this year, Ray Lusson, John Robinson and Swede Schroeder, reported that my class-bulletin announcement of the Reunion Luncheon gave them a "wild goose," so they took wing and joined the Florida '28 men. 
GEORGE COURY asked me to extend his sincere gratitude to the many classmates who remembered him with their correspondence and prayers during his long illness following a heart attack. You will be pleased to know that George is able to go to his office for a few hours every day, which indicates he is making progress, although he had a setback with hepatitis. Since I have had several requests for George's address; it is 61 Arvida Parkway, Coral Gables, Fla. 33156. 
JIM ALLAN and ED QUINN are making plans with the Morris Inn, for our 16th Annual Class of '28 Cocktail Party following the Michigan State game at ND on Oct. 2, 1971. Remember also that JOE DORAN again invites his '28 classmates to attend a get-together at his home, R.R. I, Lafayette, Ind. 47906, following the Purdue game on Sept. 25. Be sure to order tickets for these two games and advise Joe and Ed that you will join us. 
Cards were received from the following traveling classmates: PAT CANNY (Las Vegas), JOE HILGER (Mexico); BILL KIRWAN (Fiji, Hong Kong, Japan, Thailand, India, Iran, Beirut, London); BOB HAMILTON (Rome, Beirut, Thailand, Hong Kong, Tokyo); FRED SOLMON wrote from Paris that he and FRANCIS MEYER were enjoying another ND Alumni tour with JIM ARMSTRONG; HAROLD RUPPEL from Bermuda (celebrating their 40th wedding anniversary). I hope the many classmates traveling this summer will remember me with a card. 
FRANK CREADON presided at one of the sessions of the American Mosquito Control Assn. meeting in Denver in March. Frank talked to BARRY MAHONEY '29, in Casper, Wyoming, and to JIM COOGAN '27, in Green Valley, Ariz. 
1 was sorry to hear from JOE LANGTON that Father JIM McSHANE had surgery, involving discs and vertebrae in Denver in March. 
An attorney friend of mine from Chicago advised that he is co-counsel for PHIL PITON who is being sued as president of the Minor Leagues for S25,000,000 by a female umpire. Those of you who read the sports pages are probably aware of this legal battle. Incidentally, Phil wrote from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., that he plans to join the increasing number of '28 retirees in December 1971. How about a report from others who have or plan to retire? 
I noted in a finance column that BILL O'NEILL, chairman and chief executive of Leaseway Transportation Corp., is quoted as insisting that this will be "a very good year" for his company. Harold Ruppcl has been associated with Bill in Leaseway for the past seven years. 
It was good to receive another St. Patrick's day greeting in verse written by 
J. F. (Sam) DUNNE. Thanks to BILL DWYER, our class agent, for his letters and to the 53.3 percent of the '28 men who responded by contributing to the 1970 Alumni Fund. You probably noted in the April-May ALUMNUS that the percentage for the '28 Class was the largest of any class 
graduating prior to 1950 and far above the over-all average of class contributions. 
I regret to report the death of another physician. Dr. JACOB HALPERIN, who died on April 15 while visiting friends in Miami, Fla. Dr. Halperin, a graduate of Loyola Medical School, was a member of the Army Medical Corps during Worid War 

II. He was a practicing physician in Chicago at the time of his death. He is survived by his wife. 
Louis F. Buckley 
6415 N. Sheridan Rd., Apt. 1007 
Chicago, 111. 60626 
'29 ALL ABOUT I.E.S.C. 
Did you know that KARL E. MARTER­STECK will serve with I.E.S.C. as volunteer executive in Singapore? . . . I.E.S.C. means International Executive Service Corps. It was organized in 1964 by a group of American businessmen, headed by David Rockefeller, to help speed economic growth and strengthen private enterprise in developing countries. I.E.S.C. is supported in part by a U.S. Agency, in part by over 200 major U.S. corporations, in part by the foreign firm of the individual project, and is managed independently by private busi­nessmen. I.E.S.C. recruits experienced executives to volunteer for short-term assignments abroad with locally owned firms which request their assistance. Most are recently retired; others are still active in business and are made available by their 
U.S. companies. While travel and living expenses are paid for the executive, and for his wife if she accompanies him, he serves without other compensaUon. . . . 
This has been a public service of the '29 Column, for information about current recruiting needs write I.E.S.C., 545 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. 10022. 
Karl and Moura left Portland on April 14 for his three-month assignment abroad. His mailing address is I.E.S.C, Room 703, Chinese Chamber of Commerce Bldg., 47 Hill St., Singapore 6. Kari will help Selco Pte. Limited, in the field of dredging. He will help the company train its key personnel and its management plan for future growth. Something tells me that POP STEINER CSC and PROF. BENITZ looking down from their satellite are pleased but not surprised. 
We regret that on Feb. 19 DR. JOHN LAWRENCE SULLIVAN B.S.79 died unexpectedly in his sleep, he was buried in his home town of Amboy, 111. His widow, Dorothy Cull Sullivan, lives at 530 East 23rd St., New York, N.Y. 10010. John was a member of the staff of St. Vincent's and New York Hospitals. For 30 years he has been a member of the medical depart­ment of the New York Stock Exchange. He was a diplomate of the American Board of Surgeons, and a fellow of the American College of Surgeons. He was a Navy commander in World War II. John and Dorothy did not have children. His three younger brothers DR. EUGENE A., EDWARD M., and DANIEL J. SULLIVAN and his nephew TIMOTHY are all alumni of ND. John's many friends will remember him in their prayers, he was a kind and understanding man. 
Feb. 20, was the 65th birthday of JAMES P. KENNEDY, 6554 W. Imlay St., Chicago, 111. 60631. On that occasion he wrote an informative, interesting 1,500­word letter on highlights of his eventful life. He will gladly send you a copy of it if you request it. I suggest that you do. At times like this I regret that we have rather rigid space restrictions, but here is short sample: 
"I THOUGHT I COULD, I THOUGHT I COULD! and I did!!! Of course there was some invaluable assistance from the Big Boss upstairs and a couple of sturdy parents, the doctor who gave me mouth to mouth resuscitation, before my first breath and another old-fashioned practiu'oner who prescribed rock and rye during the flu epidemic of '18. The Boss must have had something in mind when He allowed me to survive the hazards of just growing up . . . there was the time when I fell with my legs between the fore and aft wheels of a Rockford (111.) trolley car and He made me convulsively withdraw, just in time to save two ankles . . . There are a few gaps in total recall .. . I kicked off in a football game, went downfield and made a hard flying tackle accompanied by a sensation like an electric shock. 
"I must have played the remainder of the game, but I didn't know what I was doing or how I got back from Marengo to Rockford . . . It's interesting to read Arch Ward's story of the game in the Morning Star .. . the contest my body played but of which 1 have no recollection . . . one football game that I will never forget is that 1 played for South Bend Central High School against Mishawaka in the ND stadium. I had the assignment of kicking off, and the ball cleared the goal posts, a clean 60 yards, because the posts were on the goal line in those days. The sheer joy of physical combat was never higher. I played with all the ferocity of a healthy tiger, making impossible tackles and wear­ing out the guard opposing me. In the smoke rings of memory, that is a delectable image in full color, especially as we won . . . Freshman football and boxing at ND were the dominating interest that first year. 
"Then came the facts of life, having to support my parents and myself for the following three years .. . a scholarship loan and a radio service business did it, permitting me to repay the loan and accumulate 53,500 in the bank . . . but it cost me in grades. My business experi­ence paid off in a contract that paid more than that of any of my classmates for running a retail radio store in South Bend, terminated within the first year of the big depression after Oct. '29. One glorious weekend, late in November of '33, I met a girl at a K of C dance, who looked like Miss Jeanette MacDonald of the movies. Her mother very properly introduced her. I made a date for the next evening, pro­posed to her and kept seeking her answer for a month. She capitulated at 3 a.m. on New Year's morning, on the open front porch of her home. We were married June 2, '34 and moved to Chicago. There were two stipulations: 1) that we would have children, God willing! 2) She would have complete authority within our home and I would have authority outside the house. 
"Tom is slowly recovering from his brain tumor operations and has applied to transfer his Iowa teaching licerise to Illinois. He would like to teach handicapped children. Meanwhile, he is a great help at home, taking over the snow-shoveling, lawn mowing and hedge trimming tasks that I am loath to do. 
"Sometimes I wonder if this series of events were what the Big Boss had intended. Countless times. He could have taken me back and yet He has let me live. He must have something in mind that I can still do for Him, but, thanks Lord. I have enjoyed every minute of it, even if the call comes 
sooner than I expect.—James P. Keiuiedy." We are pleased to share this news from EDWIN E. LEACH, 245A High P t Blvd., Boynton Beach, Florida with you. "We read with interest of your recent visit to Ireland. We also share your enthusiasm as we almost followed you around. "We spent two weeks in a little town named Cahir in Tlpperary County. Took trips each day and returned each nite. It was a wonderful experience, a dream of a lifetime. "To bring you up to date on the Leaches: After 39 years in some phases of the automobile business, I have retired and my wife (Margaret) and I now make our home here in Florida. If you, or any of the "gang" get anywhere near, we want you to stop in—coffee and a martini are always ready. 
Our family is still pretty much spread out—^JACK '56 lives in Grand Kapids with his wife, Jan, and four children. 
DICK '58 lives in Richardson, Tex., with his wife, Rho, and two children. LAKY '60 lives in Dallas, Tex., with his wife. Shelly, and three children. 
"Our daughter (a Holy Cross nurse) is married to Dr. ANDY O'DWYER '64 and lives in Pensacola, Fla. They have two children. Of the 11 grandchildren, five are potential Heisman Trophy winners. 
"I missed THOMMY SHEA at our re­union and am wondering what the latest is regarding him. Edwin E. Leach." 
The Michigan State game has been chosen for our post-game get-together. 
Larry Stauder Engineering Bldg. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'31 REUNION BIG ITEM 
It's that time again for Class of 1931 news. The big item is REUNION '71, but on the sorrowful side, I must mention the passing of two of our classmates. Dr. PETER J. CASTERLINE, Wilkes-Barre, Pa., died Nov. 26, 1969 according to word just received. RICHARD S. WALSH, B.S.E.E. '31 and father of LAWRENCE K., '64, died in Scottsdale, Ariz., in February 1971. Please remember them in your prayers. JOE DUNNE, Deming, N.M., came through with his preliminary Reunion letter, and like many others can hardly realize that 40 years have passed. He plans to meet BOB KENDALL in El Paso and fly on to Chicago. He phoned F. X. MURPHY JR. but F. X. had to beg off due to a big family reunion planned for that time. Joe saw JIM MULVANEY at the USC game last faU. Jim has moved to New Jersey where he can be in closer contact with JOHNNY BURNS of NYC. Both plan to attend the Reum'on. Joe also saw BUD GEIS at the Cotton Bowl game. And hopes to send more news from and about the few *31ers in his area. BEN OAKES will be there flying in from San Francisco. Ben has a son, 22, studying to be a Jesuit and other children in school. Ben saw MARTY BRILL and his family in Whittier and reports substantial improvement in Marty since his operation. He also had a caU from BUD TOUHY who happened to be on business in S.F. FATHER BOURKE MOTSETT had to cancel plans to celebrate our class Mass. Two of his grammar school students are 
».t«t^.->yr>^wa.<v-* 

Conboy Harrison Donlon 
b:^ 

Tojiiri ClijjoiJ Smyth 
Frank J. Conboy '32 has sold publication rights for "The Century Plant," a one-act play to Eldridge Publishing Co., Franklin, Ohio. Conboy, who lives at 403 E. Buffalo St., Ithaca, N.Y. 14850, is employed by the New York State Electric & Gas Corp. He has directed scenic design for community theaters and is president of the Ithaca Art Association. 
Most Rev. Franlc J. Harrison '33 has been named the titular Bishop of Numidia and auxiliary to Most Rev. David F. Cunningham, Bishop of Syracuse, N.Y. He was a member of the 1930 freshman baseball and a varsity player in 1931, during his two years at N D before entering St. Bernard's Seminary, Rochester, N.Y. 
Martin A. Donlon '34 has been appointed director of industrial relations for Bunker Ramo Corp., Oak Brook, III. A veteran of nearly 29 years with the firm and its predecessor corporations, Donlon has been serving as director of employee relations. Earlier he was an employer relations representative with the U.S. Employment Service. 
P. A. Tofuri '36 is the new executive vice president of the Frank 
P. Goodwin Co., distributors of Desco Chemicals and MacNaughton Brooks Products in Connecticut and Massachusetts. The firm's prod­ucts include seamless decorative walls, floors and roofs. Tofuri resides with his wife, Georgianna, at 23 Garfield Ave., Winchester, Mass. 
John F. Clifford '38, senior buyer for Gambles, a 3,400-unit chain of hardware, discount and department stores based in Minneapolis, Minn., has been named "Merchandiser of the Year" in a contest sponsored by Housewares Magazine. 
J. Vincent Smyth '41 is now president of Pennwalt Corporation's Hills-McCanna Division. The division manufactures and markets spe­cialty valves and liquid fuel systems in addition to castings for the space industry. He lives at 4607 Wild Cherry Rd., Crystal Lake, 111. He joined the firm in 1963. 
to be married that day and have asked 
Bourke to marry them. He will be missed by 
all of us. DICK DONOGHUE has 
resumed the general practice of law in 
Aubuni, N.Y. Dick was formerly litigation 
attorney for the NLRB, Washington, D.C. 
FREDDY RAHAIM, JacksonviUe, Ra., realtor, caimot make the Reunion but sends his best wishes to all classmates. JACK SAUNDERS and close-by classmates plan to be back at "The Only School." ED CUNNINGHAM sent a St. Patrick's Day card with quite a bit of news at the same time. ED and his wife have six children, including twins, all of them either studying or teaching, and with one son in the hotel management field. ED stiU has another year before retirement and keeps in touch with CHAMP J. BURNS and JIM MULVANEY. He sees SLIM MAHON who looks fine. Also visited FRANK KOSKY in Boynton Beach, Fla. He recently saw RICHIE BARBER'S widow who is maintaining his law business with their son. GEORGE JACKOBOICE has been travelling through­out the far east and says he is trying to bring a few of the Bali-Bali beauties back for the reunion. SPIKE SULLIVAN came through with his annual letter and will be on hand June 11 .. . He is in regular contact with TOM MONAHAN and CARL CRONIN. The last letter from the Alumni Ofiice listed 75 or so classmates who will be on hand in June. I hope that we will have an attendance of nearly 100 and shall look forward to seeing many of you at that time. 
James T. Doyle 
1567 Ridge Ave. 
Evanston, 111. 60201 
'32 MOSTLY SAD 
Regretfully, most of the news this past month is sad. We record the passing of DR. WILLIAM P. HAMILTON on Feb. 7. He received his doctorate in 1936 from Marquette U., served his internship in St. Paul, Minn., and has since practiced in Dodgeville, Wis. He was a Navy veteran of WW II. Surviving are his widow, Margaret, five daughters, two sons, a brother and nine grandchildren. 
SABATH M. NIGRO died March U at Enfield, Conn. He had been elected State Representative from the 44th district last November. He also had been elected to the Enfield Board of Education in 1968 after his retirement from teaching. He had taught English at Enfield High School for 36 years and had served as vice principal. He is survived by his widow, Mabel, 202 Hazard Ave, Enfield, Conn., a son, Michael, and a daughter, Mrs. David Schillman, two sisters, three brothers, a half-brother and a half-sister. 
TED HALPIN writes: "Dear Flo: I beh'eve this is the first time I've written to a class secretary, and it's a sad note for me to write. A few weeks ago my twin brother, ED, died in his sleep. A good way to go, many friends have told me, and I must admit that is some consolation. Ed was in our class for nearly three years. He had to quit in the second half of our junior year due to poor health. He regained his health to the extent that he was accepted in the Air Force when he enlisted in '42. He became a crew chief on a troop carrier plane, and was in every airborne invasion from the invasion of Sicily to the end of the war in Europe. 

"Enough sad news. Have seen several '32 classmates during the past year or less. I see JOE (Prof. Randy) KENNY and family frequently when I go to Manitowoc, Wis. MAURICE (Morrie) NEVILLE called me from Chicago and came up to Milwaukee for lunch and a few hours' visit. He still lives in Terre Haute, Ind. The only homecoming I ever went to was the Army game last fall. Ran into JIM COLLINS, BOB LEE and JOHN LITCHER and wives outside the Athletic & Convocation Center. I had been at the '32 meeting place and had seen no one around. 
"Louise and I had some great visits with RAIf and Louise PFEIFFER while they were in Milwaukee, one of these visits was brunch after Sunday Mass where IKE TERRY and wife joined us. 
"It doesn't seem possible but the calendar indicates that in only one year there's another reunion coming up. Hope to sec you there. Best regards, Ted Halpin, 5065 
N. WoodruOf Ave, Milwaukee, Wis. 53217." 
EUGENE HOWREY of Crawfordsville, Ind., passed away Feb 10. At this writing, I have no details of the family, but that Mrs. Howrcy survives him. 
I noted that in the top 10 cities in terms of dollars, our own JOE CAREY was chairman of fund raising for Detroit which finished fifth with $108 million. Nice going, Joe. 
FRANK KELLY has left Whittier, Calif, for Santa Monica; and BILL CORR ditto from Sherman Oaks, Calif, to Encino, Calif. 
That's all for now. Start planning for 1972. 
Florence J. McCarthy 6 River Rd. Scarsdale, New York 10583 
'33 BISHOP IN CLASS 
Most Rev. FRANK J. HARRISON, our loyal and devoted classmate, has been named by the Holy Father to be auxiliary bishop to Bishop David F. Cunningham of Syracuse. Before entering St. Bernard's Seminary in Rochester, N.Y., Frank was with us from 19 to '41, living in Carroll and Sophomore Halls. As a baseball player, JACK KENNEY and 1 remembered him in a game against Hillsdale. The game details escape me but I do remember JACK HOYT and Jack Kenney calling out encouragement to Frank and others of Dr. Koegan's warriors. The prayers and best wishes of your classmates go to you, Frank, and we'll be honored to have you with us at our 40th reunion in 1973. Also please extend our congratulations to your dear mother, who must be a happy woman, indeed. 
SAM HYDE sent me a news clipping, via JIM GEREND, on another illustrious classmate. Dr. JOHN PICK. The article from the Marquette Tribune contains two striking photographs of the doctor and mentions that he taught at Harvard, Catholic U., St. Edmund's in England, the Royal U. in Malta, Boston College and Groton School. John is Marshall McLuhan's godfather and survived the sinking of the Andrea Doria. Pick joined the Marquette faculty in 1945 and became a full professor of English in 1952. He is a student of the works of the English Jesuit poet, Gerard Manley Hopkins, and has written three books and a dozen articles on him. For 
22 years he was editor of Renascence, a Catholic journal of letters. He also studied at Oxford. John married the Marchesa of Malta, Cecilia D'Amica De Pero Inguanez, in 1956. Since that time they spend nine months of the year in Milwaukee and the summer months in Malta. The article concludes that our classmate is one of Marquette's finest scholars who conducts a "class in advanced pleasure." 
U.S. Senator Gale McGee of Wyoming was good enough to thank me for my recent letter in the ALUMNUS and to mention that he reads our '33 column. 
The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania kindly granted me automobile license plates colored blue and gold and imprinted: ND 33. All I need now is a new car to go with the plates. 
Irene and I had the rare good fortune to make a trip to Ireland in March. We traveled with a charter group and, as usual, met an ND man, Maj. JOHN WEEKS '56. John and his wife are from Cherry Hill, NJ. Eire is every bit as lovely as Mr. and Mrs. PAT MURPHY described it in their Christmas message. While in Dublin. I met my cousin. Com­mandant William A. Ringrose, and his gracious wife, Joan. Bill, although a member of the Irish Army, is also an inter­nationally famous horseman and has ridden in the Madison Square Garden and Harrisburg, Pa. shows. On St. Patrick's Day we marched in the parade with the Philadelphia Naval Officers' Club. The Irish people are friendly, the men are witty, the women are beautiful, and the children are simply delightful. We didn't get to the North but did manage to lose our hearts to Blarney, Killamey and a hundred other places where the natives came out waving and greeting us as if we were the prodigal son returned. 
It was a great shock to learn of the death of Dr. MARK H. DONOVAN. In her letter, Mrs. Donovan said he died July 15,1970 of a subarachnoid hemorrhage, exactly two years after he had a similar cerebral accident which left him a partial invalid. Mark is survived by his widow and three children. Dolores Donovan, who resides at 2101 E. 25th Place, Tulsa, Okla. 74114, asked for our prayers. I immediately wrote her that his classmates would certainly remember Mark and his loved ones. 
Pardon my garbled wording in the Jan.­Feb. '71 ALUMNUS which implied that Messrs. FARRIS, KOSKY, LENAHAN, and T.W. SEXTON were at the Georgia Tech game. What I meant to say was that at other games, even in other years, these classmates had visited the LARRY SEXTON tailgate near stadium Gate 10. 
Jack Hoyt sent me the newspaper clippings on Bishop Harrison and included news about other classmates. He recently had a visit from JACK TRAVERS who runs the Chamber of Commerce activities in Buffalo and had much to do with getting pro hockey and basketball to that city. Jack saw MARTY LINSKEY at a wedding and ran into BILL LYNCH and GEORGE ROHRS in Grand Central. Also he mentioned that ED ECKERT is now a trustee of Marymount College in Tarrytown, 
N.Y. Thanks, Jack, for your continuing help to the column. 
From South Bend, JOHN H. McNA-MARA tells me that ARTHUR T. RUPPE, Sr. is working with a Swiss firm on a new Bendix plant to be built in Germany. The Ruppes kept their St. Joseph, Mich., 
home and will return to it in the summer of '72. Art asked that greetings be ex­tended to the class of '33. His present address is: c/o Founding Design Corp., Engelplatz 2, CH 8640 Rappelswil, Switzerland. John wound up by remarking that after four successive winters at Delray Beach he chose the lousiest winter to stay in South Bend. 
This time I say goodbye not with an "CHd Fitz" but with a dabble of water in a Tullamore Dew! 
Charles A. Conley 100 East Tunibull Ave Havertown, Pa. 19083 

'34 THANKS FOR CARDS ~ 
I want to say thank you to BOB McDON-OUGH, 6 Homestead Rd., Sea Girt, NJ. 08750 for the beautiful get well card and his wishes for a speedy recovery. 
Had a letter from EDDIE GRAHAM, 3ID, Colfax Manor Gardens, Roselle Parle, NJ. 07204. Looked at the 1934 Dome and saw that Eddie lived in Galesburg, III. at the time of our graduation. Eddie tells of having a severe cold recently and his doctor prescribed, "Drink plenty of fluids and get lots of rest." Eddie's wife said, "What a prescription, he's been doing that for years, before he even got a cold!" Ed met HOWARD GILLESPIE at the ND-Fordham game. First time they have met since 1934. The ND Club of Central New Jersey had a cocktail hour and dinner at Gallagher's before the game. Eddie would like to know if anyone has heard from FRAN TOOMEY. Said he had not seen Fran since 1944. 
Received a letter from MOOSE KRAUSE acknowledging my contribution to the Nappy Napolitano testimonial banquet It was held on March 5 in conjunction with the Bengal Bouts. 
More changes of addresses just received from the alumni association: ROBERT L. CLARK now residing at 424 Central Ave, Lafayette, Ind. 47905, ROLAND E. GRANT, 4550 E MacDOUGALL, South Bend, Ind. 46614, JAMES THOMAS GARTLAND, No. 22, 55 Greentree Lane, South Weymouth, Mass. 02190, Maj. ROBERT H. HALPIN, 123 N. East Street, Crown Point, Ind. 46307, JOHN R. HANNON, 22701 Nine Mile Rd., St. Clair Shores, Mich. 48080, FRANCIS F. O'BRIEN, 201 Federation Bldg., Elmira, N.Y. 14901, JACK. QUIRK, 169 Grove Ave., Oak Park, 111. 
Rev. WILLIAM J. McAULIFFE CSC of the Holy Cross Association, Box K, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 has a beautiful Mass card showing the golden dome. You can have a dozen of these for J3.50. The money received is for Masses or enrollment in the golden treasury of the Holy Cross prayer, which helps take care of the education of seminarians, and care of our ill and retired priests and brothers. I am certain Fr. McAuliHe would be happy to mail you a sample of this beautiful card. 
V. GARVIN FRANSIOLI, 141 Fairview, Elmhurst, 111. Feb. 19 was his last day at Sears Roebuck & Company. Imagine, another classmate of ours is retired. Vince had a heart attack after retiring but was back home on St. Patrick's Day. Soimded great on the telephone today. 
JAMES D. COONEY, Alumni secretary, informs me of the death of ROBERT K. KELLY'S mother. REV. WILLIAM A. 
TOOHEY CSC said a Mass for her on 
March 7. Mrs. Kelly died in Januar>'. 
Bob can be reached at 2420 Mayfield Ave.. 
Montrose, Cal. 91020. 

Very happy to receive a get well card 
from EDWARD JOHN MCCARTHY of 
Joseph McCarthy & Sons. They are gen­
eral contractors in Chicago. Thanks ed. 
Today I received a call from JACK 

HAGAN. He now lives at 8131 Deer 
Path Rd., Boardman, Ohio 44512. His 
company has a division in Clearing, 111. 
I'm only 15 minutes from O'Hare Field so 
I do hope he will stop one of these days 
and say hello. 

Received a letter from RAY TROY. Ray 
is an attorney in Newark, NJ. He will 
spend St. Patrick's day in Los Angeles with 
GEORGE MELINKOVICH and his 
beautiful cousin Therese. 

I also wish to acknowledce a letter from 
BOB KELLY. It arrived today. He said 
they are recovering from the earthquake and 
having beautiful weather to do it in. Bob 
is on the board of directors of the ND Club 
of L.A. At their meeting to discuss uni­
versal ND night they had Edward (Moose) 
Krause as their speaker. Today's mail 

brought a get well card from Chickie, Pat, 
Chip, Michael, Kevin and Mary Jo Maloney 
of 339 23rd N. W. Canton, Ohio. 44709. 
Chickie is the widow of our class mate 
GEORGE P. MALONEY. Chickie thank 
you for remembering me in your prayers. 
Received St. Patrick's Day cards from BOB CAHILL, RAY TROY, and ERV KIEP. Received a lovely letter from judge ANTHONY F. (Chuck) MARRA of the criminal court of the City of New York. The judge said he sees judge TOM DALTON quite often. Erv Kiep and 1 will have our own cardiac parade next year! 
Bob Cahili and Moose must have had their hands full on March 13. The basket­ball team was playing in Houston while four teams were visiting ND for the Midwest regionals, NCAA. Sorry we lost at Wichita to Drake in the series finals. 
Went to Florida for a week and landed in the third hospital I've been in since November. Spent 13 days in Mercy Hospital, Miami. Got out on Holy Saturday. 1 want to thank DAVE FROEHLICH and BILL MATSETT for the calls they made to the hospital and the hotel where my wife Arlene was staying. Dave and Bernice called almost each of the 13 days 1 was in. 
I wish to extend my thanks to my niece, Patricia Horwath, a 1967 Saint Mary's graduate, for typing this report, 
Edward M. Moran 
Moran Supply Co. 
2501 N. Central Ave 
Chicago, 111. 60639 
'35 PARTIALLY REVIVED 

Thanks to a few letters received after the deadline for the April-May issue (in which the '35 column didn't appear for lack of news) this column is being partially revived for this issue. 
ROY SCHOLZ sent me a short biography of himself: "In general, I have been involved in the practice of ophthalmology, on the national board of Tom Dooley's MEDICO, and have served in North Africa. Shortly, I will be on a working trip to Afghanistan and Indonesia. In addition, I hold an assistant professorship in ophthalmology at Johns Hopkins, and am 
the oldest living member of the board of 
directors of the Baltimore Symphony." 
BILL BERNARD sent a check for his 
entire five years' dues in anticipation of our 
40th reunion and said he was counting on 
attending the "Revenge Bowl" in South 
Bend the week-end of Oct. 23 when ND 
hopefully will obliterate USC. (ED SMITH 
tells me quite a few '35ers also paid up to 
1975.) If any of you are planning to attend, 
suggest you get your week-end reservations 
nailed down without delay and most im­
portant let us know your intentions so 
plans may be made at this end. We have 
been trying to have a mini-reunion in 
South Bend at one of the games for several 
years without much success and hope that 
the enticement of seeing the "Revenge Bowl" 
will draw a good group this year. 

In regards to reservations for hotel or 
motel accommodations, there is now a new 
200-room Albert Pick Motor Inn occupying 
seven floors of a new 22-story building at 
the former site of the Oliver Hotel at the 
corner of Main and Washington. In ad­
dition, there are the well known motels— 
Ramada Inn, Holiday Inn, Howard Johnson 
and Randall's Inn on Route 31 close to the 
University. They fill up many months in 
advance of games and USC will be rough. 
It is my sad duly to report the deaths 
of two more of our classmates. A note 
from JIM KELLY reported the death of 
BILL MURTHA in February. Bill was a 
reporter for the News covering Long Island. 
He is survived by his wife, Mildred, and 
four children residing at 35 Roydan Drive 
N., North Merrick, L.I. Just after the 
deadline for the last issue, I received a 
phone call from JACK BRAYMER's wife, 
Mary, that Jack had passed away in March 
of 1970. Jack was with Phillips Petroleum 
for many years and was a regular attender 
at our reunions. Mrs. Braymer's address is 
2115 Hampden Road, Bartlesville, Okla. 
I was surprised and happy to receive a note from CLAUDE TOUREK who has not been able to attend a reunion for the last 20 years. Claude is living in LaGrange Park, 111., and reported the tragic death of his oldest son in 1968 from an auto accident. We were particularly interested in his comment which urged him to write and I will end this mini-column by a quotation from his letter which says it better than I could: "1 suddenly realized that if some of the negligent contributors would write, we might have a column representative of the greatest of ND classes, 1935. Even if we have next to nothing to contribute I suppose a note to the effect that we are still alive and interested in our class would be something." Amen! 
William F. Ryan 
1620 East Washington 
South Bend, Ind. 46617 


'36 COLUMN NOTICED. 

Received a nice warm letter from WILLIAM GILLESPIE, claims attorney. Port Author­ity, N. Y., who writes that he was glad to hear that I was able to sit up and take nourishment, meaning our news column in the ALUMNUS. Until the last issue of the ALUMNUS though I was in the delayed obituary. 
Bill and his family had a nice visit from Mr. and Mrs. JIM BURKE (football manager from Calif.) last summer which was most enjoyable. The Burkes were on their way to Europe. Bill and the Mrs. 
also enjoyed their hospitality in California (no date given when) where they also met GEORGE LEYES '36 and JOE RUETZ '38. Also had a note from JOE McGRATH, (the elusive quarter miler) who is working as an attorney for Uncle Sam and living in Oklahoma. He should get in touch with BILL SAFFA who lives in Tulsa. Saw Msgr. 
E. HAMMER at a ND law dinner in N.Y. last spring and has his own parish in Staten Island and working hard. Also saw Fr. DAN GLEASON, a seminarian who graduated with us at Our Lady of Victory (Wall St.) and he was the first of N. Y. City's finest (police) to leave the force for the priesthood. Occasionally sees JOE MacDONALD, originally from Vermont, now living in Long Island. Took the liberty to give my son, who is at General Motors Institute in Flint, Mich., the name and address of BOB MacDONALD just in case he needs the fatherly advice of an attorney. Between them, the two Mac-Donalds had 18 children at the time of our 25th reunion. They may have improved since. 
Shocked and sorry to hear about DANNY 
MCLAUGHLIN'S death. Had a nice visit 
with him and his lovely wife in Minneapolis 
a few years ago. 
Unfortunately our members dwindle as 
the months pass and we will miss seeing 
ANDY HELLMUTH and some of our 
other classmates in June, but I hope that 
all who are blessed with good health will be 
there so that we can visit and renew 
acquaintances and "rave" about the ND 
to-day. Nice to hear from you Bill and I 
am sure our classmates will enjoy the news. 
MICHAEL JORDAN, assistant alumni director at ND, wrote me regarding plans for our '71 reunion. Mike asked JERRY VOGEL to be the chairman of the "local arrangements committee" for our class and he has agreed to do so. Jerry plans to involve Father JOHN BURKE, MORRIS COOPER, GEORGE McNEILE and JOHN SCHOONOVER in this work as well. Mike also urges all '36 members to attend. 
Some who will attend the reunion besides myself are BILL SAFFA, WILLIAM GILLESPIE, JOE MAHAR, ED KENNEDY, DALE PILLARS and ANDY HUFNAGLE. Write me if you plan to attend and I will likewise try to get out cards concerning the reunion. 
Recently received notices of the deaths of CARMI BELMONT of Swansea, Mass. and ELMER HOOLEY of Rochelle, III. 
Larry Palkovic 303 Mecham'c St. Orange, NJ. 07050 
'37 CHUCK MILES HONORED 
News from a retiree in Florida. CHUCK MILES, also known as "Mr. Chips" formerly of Austin, 111., teacher of 33 years at St. Philip Basilica H. S. on Jackson Blvd. in the "Windy City," is that he was awarded the St. Philip Alumni award for "Outstanding work and dedication to the 
H. S;" He is now basking in the sunland with his wife Jane. They have two sons. Rev. Michael Miles in Klamath Falls, Ore., and BILL '65 in Journalism way up in Anchorage, Alaska. Maybe BEN MULLEN can look this writer up? Footnote shows that CHUCK married the gal he took to the Junior Prom, exposed her to one of Dean McCarthy's convention lectures and a tour of the Old Infirmary. 

Only thing we can't report is that CHUCK, still weighs 110 wringing wet. BILL FALLON'S Met Club has jumped across the river to N J. to get a campus president for next year in No. 1 son, Kevin Quinn. In '33-'37 we from NJ. couldn't even talk politics with the Met Club. In fact we had to ride in the mail coach on the NYC if we were lucky to be permitted on the other side of the Hudson. Note how well SUMMA did with old Secretary FOLEY, SIEGFRIED and footballer TOSE in the lineup. When South Bend does anything big you know KARL KING has played an important part. Many of the big changes downtown have been a result of his efforts and the committee that he has headed for years. You won't recognize the place when coming back for the 35th (wow). 
ED NEAHER is making the news with his crime work here in NYC area, repre­senting Uncle Sam in some very important cases. A note shows that MARK KERIN is still holding out in Denver with a change of address. The other Florida transfer we missed was the old pharmacy man from Illinois, BERNIE MARTY, now dispensing aspirin in the Rebel country. When relaxing from mowing the lawn this summer drop the secretary a line. 
I've just received word on the death of JIM McHUGH in Chicago. He died of a heart attack while at work. He was publishing director for Billboard Publications Inc. Jim is survived by his widow, Dorothy, 1440 N. Lake Shore Dr., Chicago, and a brother, Edward. 
J. P. Quinn, Jr. P.O. Box 275 Lake Lenape Andover, NJ. 07821 
'38 ON THE LINKS 
DON HICKEY ushered in the spring news with a note that ED (Tex) HAGGAR played in the Bob Hope golf classic at Dallas. No score. Rest of you must be out on the links too, as I didn't hear from you. News article said Rev. WILLIAM A. BOTZUM CSC, associate dean of the graduate school is chairman of new com­mittee at ND called Advanced Student Affairs to make recommendations on graduate affairs. A card from Brother JAMES TABAROVIE CSC Holy Cross 
H.S. P.O. Hasanabad, Dt Dacca, E. Pakistan, India, says he's starting his 31st year there after recently visiting the states, and "Happiness is getting mail." So drop him a line, you guys, since you are reluctant to write me. 
Rev. JOSEPH CIECKA CSC has moved from St. Stanislaus in South Bend to Holy Trinity Parish, 1118 N. Noble St., Chicago. 
I received an award as the "Father of Parochiaid in Indiana" from Bishop Leo A. Pursley on April 25 for my "pioneering and dedicated efforts to receive a fair share of governmental aid for the non-public school children of Indiana." 
Only other news is sad note that the mother of Lt Col. GERARD SCHAEFER died last November. The Colonel has an APO address, so you guess about his activities! And I guess I'm through until I hear from you!—SWEDE. 
Burnie Bauer 1139 Western Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46625 '39 READING AND WRITING 
We suit the action to the word, as demonstrated by the following from the long missing NEAL COCHRAN . . . Thanx, ole buddy for those kind thoughts . . . 
"Always look forward to your '39 write-up and was glad to see you back in action (April-May) after missing one issue. 1 would suppose that many '39ers are like myself—like to read but hate to write. Can't recall my most recent letter, years ago I'm sure. 
"Have been living in Frederick, Md., since 1959 and working in Washington since 1961. Joined office of Coal Research, Department of the Interior in June, 1961 and still there. Oldest daughter, Barbara, now a first year U. of Maryland Medical School student. Second daughter is a sophomore at Drew, Madison, NJ. Youngest daughter, Marion, will start high school next fall. 
"RALPH WALTER and RON LIPPS '60, I think, are the only ND men I see around town. Ralph was chairman of our parish council this past year. Encounter members of our class from time to time, not often enough. 1 might say. Saw iDAVE MESKILL at O'Hare about a ye^r ago and ran into PAT GORMAN in D.C. five or six weeks back. Didn't make the '69 reunion, because my wife was sicK, but will be there in '74. 
"My job now takes me to many universi­ties and I'm a member of the Chemical Engineering Visiting Committee at two others. The picture is the same at all of those I visit. Values that I was taught to believe in are a thing of the past as far as our muddle-headed academicians are concerned. 
"Your contributions from engineering grads seem small—chide them. I'd like to hear from JOHN E. (Jack) RYAN as well as others. Yours is a worthy but thankless job—accept my thanks for your column." 
Will all engineers (? ? ?) kindly respond, either to Neal or your lonesome secretary, and I'll do the rest. 
Joseph E. Hannan 1804 Greenwood Dr. South Bend, Ind. 46614 
'40 SECRETARY MOVES 
Your class secretary has moved again, but don't let that stop you! Just send your class news to any address you have and I will receive it sooner or later. However, if you want to reach me quickly use the present address of 947 Oakcreek Dr., Dayton, Ohio 45429. This is our third move in just less than two years and now that we are settled in our own home we intend to stay put for a lengthy time. 
BURT HALL dispensed some interesting infomlation in his first letter to the Men of '40 since graduation. How about some of you others doing the same. Burt re­married in 1969 and now has seven children in his combined family, plus seven grand­children and "every one a delight." He visited ND last spring and enjoyed the "pilgrimage" immensely including a visit with his former prof, Ray Schubmehl, now assistant dean of engineering. Burt has been in aero-engineering since graduation, with a brief time in aerospace computers. He has seen DICK AMES at ND functions in Denver; and has seen BILL THOMAS and GENE BICHON on occasion over in 
Washington. If any of you are ever in 
Denver, Colo, be sure to look Burt up at 
3039 E. Cornell Circle. Thanks so very 
much for the interesting news and your 
concern for the Men of '40, Burt. 
MIKE CORGAN's stationery from the U. 
of Nebraska is loaded with references to 
the 1970 National Champions. All of us 
congratulate you, Mike, on the fine job you 
and Coach Devaney have done through the 
years with 1970 as a most fitting crown. 
JIM DONOGHUE forwarded me a copy of 
Mike's letter in which he explained his busy 
winter schedule. 
Jim also came through with information 
about TOM McCARTHY, who is serving 
his second consecutive term as first vice 
president of the Associated General Contrac­
tors of Illinois. Tom's home is in Davenport, 
la., but contributes his talents to Illinois. 
BILL O'BRIEN, who has been with 
Shulton Inc. since 1953, resigned as president 
and director of the company in February. 
Jim pointed out that Bill had other business 
interests demanding his time and had 
to make a decision based on priorities. 
Please keep us posted on your activities, 
BUI. 
ROBERT E. SULLIVAN, better known as Bob, dean of the U. of Montana School of Law is in the news. He served as a discussion leader at a four-day National Conference on the Judiciary in March at Williamsburg, Va. He was also reappointed to his position on the standing committee on continuing education of the American Bar Association. I just hope that active Bob will be in Missoula, Mont., when we visit there this summer. 
ROBERT J. TIERNAN, also better known as Bob, creative director of ad­vertising for Better Homes and Gardens magazine, conducted a seminar on "Execu­tive and Supervisory Creativity" for the Spokane chapter of the Administrative Management Society in Spokane, Wash. If you ever have a seminar in Dayton, I do expect to hear from you. Bob. 
Kay and I were fortunate to witness the ND-Dayton basketball game in S. B. and saw JIM and Maggielee DELAHANTY, BOB and Martha MICHAUD, '50, BILL and Jean KLEM, '45, and BOB and Celie HISS. We also had a i^easant visit with two men of '71, GREGG CARLE­VATO and JIM MARREN; and had been with two others earlier, namely PAUL DILLENBURGER and KEVIN DONO­GHUE. 
CHUBBY GILLILAND managed to make this issue with a pleasant St. Pat's day greeting. He has not missed supplying news for every issue since reunion. 
Check the address below and snow me under with news during the warm summer months. 
Robert G. Sanford 
947 Oakcreek Dr. 
Dayton, Ohio 45429 
'41 EXPECT 80 
Early registration for our 30th Reunion shows that 80 of us will be on the Campus June 10-13. There are at least 200 who could make it quite easily so let's get with it. Some of us will also be bringing our wives who will be over at the Rock for their 30th. I know that my spouse, Marty, and Marge Saggau will be over there. BOB SAGGAU tells me that he is at the top of his golf game and is 
«-s>-»o:^»«-.ji»«»Ke.g«iwa5i^;$gSS^g;gg^ 

When Dr. Edward M. Scott '46 
weaves an hypnotic spell over an indi­
vidual, it's not for entertainment. He 
has successfully used hypnosis to 
treat patients suffering from alco­
holism. 

The Oregon psychologist is now turning his efforts to aiding drug de­pendent persons. He is in the midst of a three-year project sponsored by the Federal Government. 
Dr. Scott, clinical director for the State of Oregon Mental Health Di­vision's Alcohol and Drug Section, began working for this department in 1960. He has introduced several treatment practices that other clinics have adopted. One of these is group therapy for schizophrenic alcoholics. 
ready to pack off all the trophies he can at the Monogram & Reunion Tourna­ment. 
Marty and I put in a weekend in Las Vegas recently and spent some time with MIKE HINES, '42, and his lovely wife, Ingrid. They reside in Vegas and Mike practices law there. Was pleasantly sur­prised at receiving a phone call from JOHN MIES, who lives in Paramount, Calif, and operates four mortuaries in 
S. California. John plans to attend the Reunion. Spoke to JOHN O'LOUGHLIN and learned that I was in error on JAY REYNOLDS in my last column, and that he is with Illinois Tool Works as Real Estate Manager, and further that Dr. JIM CARROLL is now the chief surgeon for the Chicago Police Department. 
RAY FIDLER dropped a line from his home in Long Beach. He is with a brokerage firm and his son is now ap­pearing professionally as a Magician on TV in L.A., and in S. Caliform'a. 
Had a little bout with illness recently— spent a week at the hospital and a month away from work, with a minor C.V.A., but am well again and will be on hand 
He also offered group therapy for wives of alcoholics and initiated the use of hypnosis in treatment of al­coholics. To further study the potential benefiits of hypnosis, he spent a sum­mer at the Morton Price Center of Hypnosis in New York City. He has also served as the president of the Portland Academy of Hypnosis. 
During the past 10 years. Dr. Scott has served as psychological con­sultant to various institutions, includ­ing a convent and a state prison. He notes that the year with the prisoners was "a very challenging and difficult consultation and probably one in which I learned as much as I taught, since we had group therapy right within what we called "The Chicken 
for the 30th. Finally met JOHN PROPECK at Church in Glendora. John plans to at­tend the reunion and did attend the Univer­sal ND night in L.A. in April. 
Let's all plan to show up, and I'll be seeing you then. 
BiU Daly 
1204 Indian Springs Rd. 
Glendora, Calif. 91740 
'42 NEWSY LETTER 

Our many, many thanks to PAUL TAFEL who took time to write us a nice long letter giving us news of many of our classmates. Paul is now president of Tafel Electric & Supply Company in Louisville, Ky. Paul writes in part: 
"Larry Aubrey came down from Cin­cinnati and we had dinner with our wives. Visited with DON CONNORS in New York and tried to contact BILL MADDEN in New York but couldn't reach him by phone. JACK MAAS flew into Louisville a few months ago and called so we had lunch before he returned to Coop' in the cell blocks." 
Dr. Scott has published ap­
proximately 30 articles in professional 
journals. He is proud of originating 
the Philosophical Psychology Division 
of the American Psychological Assoc. 
"It has always been my opinion 
that- psychologists have divorced 
themselves unrealistically from philos­
ophy," he says. 
For his achievements. Dr. Scott 
was named Notre Dame Man of the 
Year by the Portland Club in 1970. 
After graduating from ND, Dr. 
Scott entered the seminary. Eventual­
ly, however, he decided the priesthood 
was not his calling. He entered the 
U. of Portland and began a degree program in clinical psychology that ended in a Ph.D. in 1953. While there, he taught a course in philosophy for student nurses at St. Vincent's Hospital, which was part of the Uni­versity. There he met his future wife, Kathy, who was one of the students. 
After completing his degree work, he became the chief clinical psycholo­gist for the Eastern Oregon State Hospital in Pendleton. And after three years, he left to become consultant psychologist for the Oregon State Board of Health. This job saw him criss-crossing the state, establishing clinics and lecturing. But his family was starting to grow and because he would have to be gone from home for days at a time, he resigned to join the Mental Health Division. 
Dr. Scott and Kathy have five chil­dren — Kathleen, Mike, Maureen, Timothy and Molly. They live in a small town of Tigard located in a valley outside Portland. 
Virginia. Took family on trip out West and made contact with MIKE HINES in Vegas and then saw BILL MORROW and LEO TURGEON in Los Angeles at a football game. Then spent an evening with ED MCGRATH and his family in Balboa. 
"Last time I saw BERNIE CRIMMINS he was doing well in Lafayette. LARRY AUBREY and his wife, Marie, celebrated their 2Sth wedding anniversary in Cincinnati last summer and I saw WALT HEEKIN and JACK BERGEN at the party. 1 travel to Nashville every two weeks because we have a branch there, but to date have been unable to spend any time with BILL KEYES who lives there but travels a lot. Saw FRANK POLLNOW in St Louis, and see TOM WALKER when we get to Ft. Lauderdale, which is about twice a year. Spent a little time with JIM BURKHART of Dalton, Ga., and CHUCK MC NEIL who is now a Westinghouse appliance distributor in New Orleans." 
Also had a nice note from VINCE SHIELY, new president of Briggs & Sfratton. He frequently see BILL KEYES 

who has recently been elected executive vice president of the Murray Ohio Manu­facturing Co. in Nashville, Tenn. Vince said he had a letter from CHARLIE CONGER who still resides in Poughkeep­sie, N.Y. and is the most eligible bachelor in town. He also sees JOHN MALONE and has spent some lime with JACK BERGEN. Congratulations to Rabbi AL­BERT PLOTKIN of the Temple Beth Israel, Phoenix, Ariz., who is the recipient of a Brotherhood Award from the Arizona region of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. Rabbi Plotkin, who graduated magna cum laiide, has been in Phoenix for 15 years after serving in temples in Seattle and Spokane. He is active on many civic and community boards. RICHARD E. LENHARD, now sales manager, Mid-America region, Sig­nodc Corp. is a grandfather five times. Dick resides in Mt. Prospect, Illinois. 
William M. Hickey 
5500 West 73rd St.. 
Chicago, Illinois 60638 
'43 BYRNE ADVANCES 
JIM BYRNE, president of Byrne Plywood Co., 2400 Cole St., Birmingham, Mich., has been appointed to the board of directors of the Wayne Oakland Bank, Royal Oak, Mich. Jim was commanding officer of a subchaser in WW 11 and upon his return to civilian life a.ssociated with the plywood industry, founding the Byrne Plywood Co., and helped organize the Welsh Panel Co., of Longview, Wash. He is past president of the ND Club of Detroit and a former director of the ND Alumni Association. He was named Detroit ND Man of the Year in 1962. Jim, his wife Mary Ann, and two of his four children reside at 4485 Chisholm Trail, Birmingham, Mich. 
BILL MIDDENDORF reports that he attended the funeral of BILL KEENAN's mother in D. C. Bill Keenan now resides in White Plains, N. Y. Bill also reports that PAUL (Rip) FISHER retired from the government on April 1, and the entire family less the two eldest girls will move to Galway, Ireland. The Fishers have ten children. Bill reports seeing JACK TERRY '45, congressman for the Syracuse, 
N. Y. area, quite often. JACK WIGGINS and wife Rita, now of Ramsey, N. J., saw the Middendorfs off to Europe last July. 
JIM MCELROY, Midwest sales man­ager of Mutual Broadcasting System, Chi­cago, was one of approximately 1,000. parents on campus for a truly fine Junior Parents Weekend. Jim reports seeing PAT DONOVAN, ED HICKEY, and DICK GULLING. Pat spent a good many years overseas for Union Carbide; Pat, Jr. was born in Madras, India. 
The ND Club of Chicago, in conjunction with the University, has been having a series of "First Tuesday" lunches — the first Tuesday of every month at Marshall Field's in the Loop. All classmates in town on a first Tuesday are welcome to attend. FRED GORE, JACK GRIFFIN, JIM MCELROY and WALT KRAWIEC are pretty much regulars at these. Some of the others in town get there less often. But MARK LIES, BILL SULLIVAN, BOB KUIPERS, and ED MURRAY, to name a few, have attended. 
Congratulations to Class Prexy JACK BARRY on being named ND Man of the 
Year by the ND Club of Chicago. 
Frank W. Kaiser 307 Cherry St. Chatsworth, 111. 60921 
'44 TRIES TYPEWRITER 
When one lives in this part of the world, really God's country, he seldom has con­tact with any members of the Class of '44 except with the few who live in the area. Four of the five members turned out for the GREEN BAY-FOX VALLEY ND CLUB celebration of UND Night. Missing was PAUL DOHR of Peshtigo, Wis. On hand were Dr. KEN­NETH FORBES, the area SUMMA chairman, WALLIE CHRISTMAN, whose son Mike will be a freshman at ND in fall; JOSEPH FIEWEGER, whose son Joe graduates from ND in June, and yours truly. Special guests that evening were TIM HUGHES '61, managing editor of the ALUMNUS. JOHN MACHECA '62, midwest regional director of development for ND and TIM FEELEY '72, student representative. 
The death of a classmate almost a year ago was reported just recently. It was that of Brother GERONTIUS McCARTHY CSC. His last assignment was on the faculty of Gilmour Academy, Gates Mills, Ohio. 
A very welcomed letter was received from HENRY ADAM, Orange, Texas. He recently purchased a new electric type­writer to replace the portable one he took to ND in 1940 and decided to experiment by typing a letter to yours truly. The Adams are the parents of five, three teenagers and two younger children. Early this year Hank and his wife were in Houston and lunched with OTTO MILETI and Rosemary. More recently he visited in his old hometown, Parkers­burg, W. Va., and spent an evening with JIM THOMAS and Janet and BUZZ HASSETT, Atlanta, Ga. who also was there. Occasionally Hank phone-visits with JOHN MORRISON who is with the Department of Transportation, headquar­tered in Boston. 
To add variety to this column and in­cidentally to one's diet, a special recipe of Chef Joseph Fieweger is being included. He does a masterful job in preparing this dish and the results are a culinary delight —a treat par excellence. Easily Joe could become another Galloping Gourmet. Here 
is Joe's recipe for BEEF TERIYAKI 1—Flank steak—scored on both sides and cut diagonally into one inch strips (usual­ly three servings per flank steak) 2—Mix—VA c Kikkomon Shoyu sauce V5 c water % c sugar 3 T shredded ginger root 4 cloves garlic finely chopped I t MSG (accent) Dry Sherry 3—Put meat into a dish: pour on the mix and add enough sherry to cover the meat. Cover the dish tightly and marinate overnight in the refrigerator. Stir occa­sionally. (Who gets up during the after-midnight hours is for you to decide). Before cooking, let the ingredients stand out at room temperature for at least an hour (depends upon how long one desires to cocktail). Broil quickly over charcoal fire. Serve. Others of you have special favorite 
recipes. Send them in. Perhaps '44ers will be known for their culinary prowess. 
Joseph A. Neufeld 
P. O. Box 853 Green Bay, Wis. 54305 

'45 FAR AWAY FROM B-P 
In its early days this class column had much news of engagements ... . then of marriages . . . then of children . . . then of more children . . . honors, promotions, and some deaths . . . now some of the news turns to grown children, their marriages, and a good sprinkling of grandchildren. It all seems just a little far away from Breen-Phillips, Walsh, St. Ed's, Dillon, and Sorin... . 
ALFRED A. WADE writes from Roches­ter, Mich., where he works for Kirsch Co., that he and his wife, Judy, are very happy. They have a married daughter, Andria, who has enriched the grandparents with two grandchildren, a 4-year-old boy and a 2-year-old daughter. A 21-year-old son, James, is stationed in King Salmon, Alaska, after having served a year in Vietnam in the Air Force. Two other sons, Fred (19) and Monte (16) round out the Wade household. 
Rev. WILLIAM C. O'CONNOR CSC is pastor at St. Francis Xavier Parish in Burbank, Calif. He has been at that parish since 1955, and became pastor in 1962. He operates a 15-room parochial school (grades 1 through 8) with an all-lay staff since the teaching nuns left in 1970. He writes that Father JOHN VAN WOL­VLEAR, CSC, assistant superior at the 
U. of Portland, is visiting his parish, giving the parish clergy an assist during Holy Week and Easter. 
JAMES V. DONNELLY, JR. and wife, Mary Lou, live in Old Bethpage, N.Y., with their three lovely daughters, Susan (14), Cynthia (12) and Mary Beth (11). Susan is graduating from St. Pius X School in June and is looking forward to St. Dominic's H.S. in Oyster Bay, N.Y. in September. Susan got a two-game series of 153 and 211, while Mary Beth achieved her goal of a ISO-game by getting 151 on the last day of league play! Cynthia has the best singing voice in the family while Mary Beth plays the guitar. Jim writes that he talked with BILL FITZHARRIS a few months ago; Bill is advertising and public relations of­ficer for a company on Long Island. "Have had lunch with JIM RETTER a couple of times recently. He is also with Union Carbide, as is JACK COLLINS '44, with whom I work rather closely in ferroal­loys. TOM BERGIN's last letter to me said that he would call me when he is next in New York. Tom has to be one of the most understanding members of our class considering the disarray his office was left in at our 25th Reunion last 
June." 
AL CIZALISKAS is an advisor on in­ternational financial affairs with the State Department. He lives in Falls Church, Va., with his wife Gene and their five children: Albert Jr. (19); Robert (17); Thomas (12); Carol (8); and Richard (6). Robert who is a senior at Bishop O'Con­nell H.S., has been selected for member­ship in National Honor Society. Al has appeared in "Who's Who in America" for the past five years, and recently he ac­companied former treasury secretary, now Ambassador Kennedy on a presidential 
mission to Indonesia traveling on his spe­cial Air Force plane. 
RAYMOND MICHOLS is a fuU-Ume emergency room physician at Sunrise Hos­pital in Las Vegas, Nev. . . . "As such, I see many of our tourists who come from all over the country, and world. A must trip for me each year is the TJSC-ND game in Los Angeles. 1 have seen the last three." 
GEORGE M. BALAS retired on June 30, 1970 as business manager and secre­tary treasurer of the Ann Arbor Public Schools. Two of his three daughters are married. One of them, Mrs. Jacqui Mitchell and her partner won the Woman's Pairs Bridge National Championship at Atlanta. This was her third national championship. George writes: "About a month ago I was rescued from drowning after breaking through the ice while fishing. I was in the water over VA hours. I was fortunate to be rescued and fortunate to have no ill after-effects. 
Your secretary spent a very enjoyable few hours visiting with DAN O'NEIL '25, who has retired and lives in New London, Conn. We spoke of our old friendships, had a most enjoyable lunch and then I went on to a business appointment. Dan looks fine and fit; his spirit was jovial as usual, and our meeting was thoroughly a good time. Dan was one of the men who interviewed me when the ND Club of New York awarded me a scholarship back in 1943. 
Alvero V. Lesmez 122 Tullamore Rd. Garden City, N.Y. 11530 
'46 AGENT PROMOTED 

HARRY E. WORMAN of Tlpp City, Ohio, has been named general agent of Central-Western Ohio by the National Life Insur­ance Company of Vermont. He heads an office in Dayton and has charge of sales and agents in 43 counties. JOHN VAUGHAN dropped a line to inform me that due Jo other very important com­mitments he regrets that he will be unable to attend the reunion. JOHN is with the Prudential Insurance Co. of America and is located in San Antonio, Tex. He wishes to be remembered to all his friends of the Class of '46. Brief and most appreciative notes from ART KERNEN, JOHN P. MCGUIRE, TOM BURNS and NlCKl COMMISA indicate they are all looking forward to returning to the campus for that big event in June. Other classmates planning to attend the 25th reunion are: ROBERT G. BROWN, DEANE CALDWELL, JIM CLEMENS, DR. RICHARD CRONIN, PAUL DOYLE, 
JIM EGAN, VINCENT JACOBS, FRANK KOWALSKI, MARVIN LARSON, RUDY LOPEZ, DR. E. OTLEWSKI, REV. JOSEPH QUINN CSC, ED MIESZKOW­SKI, TOM SCHRIEBER, GEORGE WHITTINGHAM and let's hope many more. 
At the 20th reunion, I recall that ED FISHER was acclaimed father of the Class of '46 for having 10 children— seven girls and three boys. I believe, also, that someone informed me they also had 10 children but I don't recall who. If anyone tops Ed or the unknown maybe we'll find out at the 25th. 
That's all there is to report at this time but I'm certain that after the reunion the 
news and stories should be plentiful. 
Peter P. Richiski 6 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 


'47 HEADS COMMISSION 

IGNACIO LOZANO JR., pubUsher of La Opinion, the largest Spanish language daily paper in the U.S., has been elected president of EI Pueblo De Los Angeles State Historic Commission. The commission was established in 1965 under a city, county and state agreement. 
Brother ELWIN BORES, CSC, principal of St. Anthony High School, Long Beach, Calif., tells us he will be going into the hospital on June 14, St. Vincent's Hospital, 3rd and Alvarado, in I~A., and on June 17, he will have open heart surgery, getting a new "valve job," a new aortic valve. He hopes to be out of the hospital in about two weeks after the operation. Please remember brother in your prayers. 
Please keep the news coming, and remember our 25th Reunion in '72. 
James J. Shea 35 Liberty Terrace Ashley, Pa. 18706 
'48 START IN MIDDLE 

I imagine some of you have been as disappointed as I have been in receiving the last few editions of the ALUMNUS and not finding this column. I have always found this class news to be the most interesting of all the news in the magazine nowadays. After all, if you read about Kunstler first you may not get to Keenan, so start each reading about the middle of the issue. 
In the past few months we have ac­cumulated some correspondence and also seen a few people. In December at Toots Shot's restaurant in NYC the ND people got together and had a reception for FRANK LEAHY prior to the HaU of Fame dinner at which he was inducted into the Hall. I went with LEO COSTELLO and our class was further represented by ZIG CZAROBSKI (76), GEORGE CONNOR (81), JIM MELLO (65). JOHNNY LUJACK (32) and many others of the same era. While everyone was enjoying M. C. CZAROBSKI's introductions of Commissioner Pete Rozell, Buddy Young, Astronaut Buzz Aldrin, Coach Darrel Royal, Creighton & Don Miller, Heisman Trophy winners BERTELLI, LUJACK, HART, LATTNER, etc., the New York police were towing away Jim Mello's car. Jim thought when you came to Fun City for fun you could park anywhere. Taint funny as it costs $75. 
JIM McCONN's son who graduated from ND last June is at Texas U. studying law. Jim has another son at Texas U. so when it is bowl time in Dallas they have had interesting New Year's Days the past two years. 
AL O'BRIEN has opened up his own public relations shop in New York City at 475 Park Av. S. Anyone wanting a good press in the area can contact AI who was a former McGraw-Hill editor and was in charge of public relations at the Tyson Ad Agency before going out on his own. I had a Christmas card from BILL GRIFFY in which he menUoned the 
fact that DAN HESTER was seriously 
ill. Dan passed away Jan. 22. Dan started back in '42 with many of the members of the class of '48 and was always the quiet likeable guy. His family resides at 8852 Greenwood Av., San Gabriel, Calif. WARREN KANE is senior vice president of Marine and Mining Services of the Fluor Corp. in Los Angeles. He has been in contact with BOB TURVEY who is with the Continental Oil Co. in London and has seen BUD O'REILLY on recent visit trips to the West Coast for EBASCO. He tells us that he also saw JIM CARROLL in Australia and Jim is with Global Marine as their chief operatmg officer in Australia. Remembering Jim as an operator from way back it is nice to see that he is now a "chief." 
JACK MULLIGAN, M.D. has been 
named professor of social medicine at 
the U. of Kentucky. TRAVIS MARSHALL 
is now manager of marketing operations 
for Motorola Communications and Elec­
tronics and also a vice president of one 
of their subsidiary operations. BILL 
WHITELY is looking forward to our 25th 
Reunion in 1973. Bill has seven children 
ranging from 12 to 1 years old. JIM 
MAHONEY has written a very long 
sympathetic letter about the trials and 
tribulations that he recognizes are part 
of a class secretary's job. Jim has been 
with the same company, Moore Business 
Forms, since he graduated and although 
he started off in Buffalo he is now their 
sales promotion manager for the Central 
Region out of Park Ridge, III. He 
is looking forward to seeing JIM GORMAN, BILL REILLY, and the wild ones from Norfolk, CARVEL and HUTCHTNS, at the '73 Reunion. Jim recently met JACK SHINE who he thought was in New Hampshire, right in the parking lot of the school where he also has a son (Notre Dame High, Niles, III.). He found out they both live in Glenview, that they both have sons in the same high school, both have oldest sons as seniors at Marquette, and both have only daugh­ters who are also freshmen at Marquette. Thanks Jim for your interesting letter. 
Outside of a lot of change of address notices, there is not much else new. Think of early June '73 when we'll have our 25th Reunion get-together. Stay in good health, start resting up because you won't be as young as you were at the last reunions. As you know, things are different on campus nowadays. All-night lights, no Mass checks, young maids, etc., so you have to be ready to swing in. 
George J. Keenan 
177 RoUing Hills Road 
CUfton, NJ . 07013 
'49 LETTERS RESUMED 
As I mentioned in our last column, I will 
lead this time with some news re PETER AHRENS who sent me a fine letter from Madison, Wis. I just wish you 
could see and appreciate the classic "logo" 
on his stationery: It features (in bold 
maroon) a sketch of a very modem automotive display room, parking area and repair shops under the heading "Ahrens Cadillac-Oldsmobile, Inc." As Peter explained, he and Margo (SMC '52), moved about the USA botfi with the Air Force and General Motors for several years before lighting in Madison, in 1962. They had lived in Syracuse, Detroit, Atlanta, Los Angeles and Dallas, with Dallas impressing them most. In 1962, Pete purchased the Caddy-Olds dealership and hopes to continue his iine relationship with the Madisonites providing "our continuous crop of protesters don't take over the whole town." Peter and Margo have four boys and two girls. They manage to attend one or two ND games each year and would be delighted to hear from any '49ers with hopes of "joining them for some football weekend in South Bend." 

BILL BROCKHOFF crammed plenty of news into a short note he sent me. He told of helping son John complete his application for admission to ND in September 1971. The two of them visited the campus for the Georgia Tech game, including the Friday night pep rally. Bill has a secret longing (as do 1) for the old iieldhouse rallies we used to witness. He also told of their attending a Saturday noon Mass at Sacred Heart Church which included a rock and roll group called "The Chapped Lips." Said Bill, "For those of our class who are able to attend our 25th in '74, and who have not had the opportunity to revisit in recent times, the campus certainly will offer some eye-openers." His final note. They visited with Dee and NICK. HUIE, grad student in Chemical Engineering, which completed a great weekend. 
Notice how often we mention our sons attending ND? How the years have flown! In this very connection BILL DACEY JR. sent me a few lines about his family. The first thing to catch my eye was a news clipping and a picture of a beautiful girl, DEBBIE DACEY, who was crowned Barnstable High School Junior Miss for 1971 and thereby became eligible for the Massachusetts State Pageant. If looks will do it, Debbie has it won. The Daceys boast of two sons at ND, both sophomores. William is in Austria as an exchange student, Michael is on campus. They also have one married daughter, and three other children scattered from third grade to high school frosh. Bill went to the LSU game, a thriller, and later watched Michael play for Dillon Hall in the stadium in the campus interhall championship game. Dillon won 8-0. At the game Bill met JIM CANNON '50 and Joe Garagiola, who has a son at ND. One of son, Mike's close buddies is Rich Sherman, son of ED SHERMAN, a '49er. To complete the trip, daughter Debbie had her interviews for St. Mary's and should start there in September. Get in line. Boys! A final thought from Bill's letter. He recently met MIKE CONLEY, one of the real tough, quick Bengal Bouts champions. Mike is a former Bostonian, like Bill, and is 
currently down in Tennessee and doing very well. Bill finally got around to telling me that he is in the construction and real estate development business on Cape Cod—Hyannis, to be exact. So anyone who would like to settle near the Kennedy compound had better check first with Bill Dacey. 
I find myself with only a few lines left for this writing, and yet I have a tremendous letter from RAY KEYS, newly appointed controller of Blue Ribbon Paint Co. in Wheeling, West Va. The letter is too interesting to give only limited space this month so if you'd like to meet a family of champions, meet me here next issue. 
Meantime, let me tell you that Joe Theisman was superb as a speaker, enter­tainer and gentleman sports celebrity at our sports dinner. And as the house guest of the Wesleys, we'll never be the same: Celebrities by reflection. Join me here next time as we discuss the KEYS, C. J. BAUMANs, CHUCK RUSS and others. Mafl is improving! Keep it up! 
Leo L Wesley 155 Driftwood Lane Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
'50 THE CLAN GATHERS 
We had a pleasant gathering for St. Patrick's Day last with JACK KELLY, MONY V.P., and had some good reminiscences about VINCE CUNNINGHAM, ARMAND D'AGOSTINO, and others, and learned how well JACK and Dolores (SMC) and their 11 children are faring. Also celebrat­ing St. Patrick's Day with us were PHIL FACCENDA, visiting Key Biscayne with KATHY and their lovely children, during the ND board of directors meeting. PAUL SCHAFER's son, Timmie was pre­sented a football signed by the entire ND Team by ED FOLEY, making Timmie, who is recovering from a clot on the brain from a bicycle fall, extremely happy. 1 understand that ED FOLEY will be running a tour to the Miami Game Oct. 9, 1971. We will have to plan a little get-together. 
NATHAN DON DICK sent the follow­ing: "Dear Sparky, I just want you to know that I agree and support your position of the Class of 1950 as set forth in your article in the July-August ALUM­NUS. My personal feelings are that the University should have a set of rules and regulations applicable to all students. They should be enforced and any student who does not wish to live by the rules should be dropped from the University and another student willing to abide by the rules enrolled in his place. We lived by the rules and I never found them oppressive. 
"To bring you up-to-date on my activities since graduation, I served as a special agent of the FBI until joining the 
U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare in February 1959. I served in various capacities and on Sept. 6, 1970 was appointed director of security for the department. HEW is a complex department of over 100,000 employees so the challenges are great and problems formidable. 
"Terry and I have three children, two of whom were bom while I was a student at ND. Brian, the eldest son, after 2'/4 years at ND, is now in the Army dis­charging that responsibility after which he plans to complete his studies at ND Douglas is a junior at Mount St. Mary's College, Emmitsburg, Md., where he is on the varsity soccer team. My daughter, Adrianne, is an accountant with a C.P.A firm. 
"A few of my outside activities include currently, deputy grand knight, K of C council; officer. Society of Former Special Agents of the FBI; and coaching in the 
C.Y.O. program. I have been coaching both boys and girls in baseball, Softball and basketball for over 10 years. In that time not one of the youngsters I have coached has ever been in trouble with the police or other authorities. I sincerely believe that we would not Iiave the problems we now have with delinquency and crime by young people if every boy or girl who desires to participate in com­petitive sports bad the opportunity to do so. If our communities would spend more on providing our youngsters with the facilities and equipment to compete in sports, they would save on costs of additional police and crime problems." 
"AL McNULTY, Paramus, NJ., was reported to be the recipient of the "Outstanding Sales Achievement Award" for the three consecutive years from 1968 to 1970 for. UNIROYAL, INC. at the Northeast Regional Sales meeting held at West Point last year. He and his wife Natalie are the proud parents of iout: Jim (20), Ginny (15), Kathy (11) and Brian (8). He sends his regards to all his ND friends. 
"JIM CURRAN, at the U.S. Army War College, Carlisle Barracks, Pa. wrote as follows: "Dear Sparky, I'm not sure, but I suspect this is the first letter I've written to you since we graduated. In any case, I thought it might be a good idea to let my classmates know I am alive and well and presently living in Carlisle Bar­racks. The Alumni Directory which I just received lists me under 'Foreign' and that is also why the directory was a long time on the way; it was sent to my old address in Tanzania. 
"Going back a bit—^I realize you are probably wondering what in the world I was doing in Tanzania in the first place— like the rest of us NROTC types, I did my three years active service after graduation on a destroyer and then a DE. Great fun, Atlantic, Mediterranean, North Sea and Caribbean. After that, a year at Georgetown (BSFS '54) and a successful try at the Foreign Service examination. Appointments to the Foreign Service were scarce as hen's teeth at the time, thanks to the late Senator McCarthy and others, so I spent a year with the National Security Agency. Then the Foreign Service came through with a commission. 
"Aside from the first few years, 1955-58, which were spent in the Department of State in Washington, practically all of the time since has been overseas. In the academic year '65-'66, the department gave me a year at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy where I was able to get an MA in International Economics. This year is a different sort of sabbatical; I'm one of a dozen civilians here at the Army War College, along with about 210 military officers. The overseas duty referred to was very interesting and if any classmates have sons who jm'ght be interested in foreign service careers, I would like to give them every encourage­ment. My first two-year tour ('S8-'60) was in the embassy in Tehran where I had a variety of jobs in administration, protocol and consular section, as an introduction to work. After I spent 4V4 years as 
the economic officer in our consulate gen­eral in Cape Town, South Africa. During that time I had some of the reporting responsibUities for South West Africa 
('Namibia'), in addition to the economic and commercial work on our part of South Africa, and made several long trips through this remote and fascinating country. 
"Then followed the Fletcher School year, after which I went to Dar es Salaam, capital of the United Republic of Tanzania, 
as the embassy economic officer. This was in many ways the most interesting period of my life. East Africa is a marvelous part of the world and, as I'm sure you know, has probably the greatest wild game areas left in the world. The visits to r'aces like the Serengeti Plains and the Ngorongoro Crater, as well as an attempt to climb Mount Kilimanjaro (it's 19,300 ft. to the top, so I don't feel too embarrassed at calling it quits at about 17,500!) were once-in-a-lifetime opportuni­ties. The work itself was plentiful as we are obliged by the host government to limit our embassy staff to a dozen Americans. So there was never time to be bored. This plus a house on the shore of the Indian Ocean with a beach that I would put up against anything you have in Florida—minus the people, cars and soft drink bottles, made for a very happy four years. 
"Since this letter has to cover a long time span, let me go back to 1951 and mention the fact that that year was the last bachelor year for me; Polly and I will celebrate our 20th anniversary next October, God willing. Along the way we have acquired a modest houseful: Louis (18), Moira (17), Matthew Padraic (bom on St. Patrick's day, 1956), Benjamin (13), Edmund (11), Sean Emmet (9) and, last but not least, Sarah Roberta Butler (6). The oldest is a freshman at Johns Hopkins and the rest are all in Carlisle public schools this year. In July 1 will be starting a State Department desk job for the first time in many years. I had a letter from the department this week telling me I will be a division chief in the Bureau of Economic Affairs. You won't believe it, but the full title of the grand and glorious division is Industrial and Strategic Materials Division, Office of International Commodities, International Resources and Food Policy. It took me three days to hnd this division's niche in the department's organization chart! My present status in the service, incidentally, is foreign service officer, class three (FSO-3) which equates to a full colonel in the military. 
"So much (more than enough) biographic history. Would you believe ru-o members of the Class of 1950 in Tanzania at once? While I was out there doing my thing in the embassy, the director of the Catholic Relief Services' operations in the country was LYNN MARSHALL. (Cath­olic Relief Ser\ices, N.C.W.C, Box 9222, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.) About the only other alumnus I've run into in Africa was Dr. DAVE SMITH, Class of '51, who was in Cape Town doing oceanographic work in connection with a project to recover diamonds from the sea. I wonder how he made out? I left before the project was completed, but it was quite an exciting business. Dave's company was on contract to a group led by a colorful Texan who had the concessions for an offshore area on the South West Africa coast. Among other problems, can you imagine breakers 20 to 30 feet high rolling through your working area? 
"All the best from a long silent friend. Sincerely yours, Jim Curran." 
May you all be having an enjoyable summer. Best regards. 
John (Sparky) Thornton, 4400 Monserrate St. 
Coral Gables, Fla. 33146 ^51 JENNINGS' LAST 

This is a real pleasure, as it's the last column. Probably won't arrive until you return from Reunion, so send some news to the new secretary right away. 
JACK MULDOON was upset at being left out of the column for some time. He went to great lengths to get back in. On St. Joseph's Day, Patrick Joseph Muldoon was born as the seventh entry in the Muldoon Derby. Rosemary and Pat are fine. 
Talked to BOB MURPHY who is an FBI Agent here in Chicago. The Murphy's live at 1007 E. 153rd St., South Holland, 
III. 60473. Bob married Eileen Ahem, of New York City, and they have three boys and three girls. Bob is the guiding spirit behind our proposed tennis tournament on the Reunion weekend. HARVEY O'NEILL sent his regrets on missing this Reunion. Harvey is now executive vice president of Chinhae Chemical Co., Ltd., near Seoul, Korea. Chinhae is a joint venture between Gulf and the Korean Govt. The O'Neills are happy and enthusiastic; they hope to see any classmates who get to Korea for any reason. PAT BARRETT sent a note with the sad news that HUGH TUOHY died in Blackfoot, Idaho about six months ago. Please remember Hugh and his mother in your prayers; we believe she is the only survivor in that family. Pat himself is V-P and treasurer of Alden's on the West side of Chicago. Pat and LaVon (Froehlich) with their four boys and two giris, live at 9345 S. Millard, Evergreen Park, III., 60642. Pat is urging JIM BOYLE to attend the Reunion. Jim, still a bachelor, is with the Federal Home Loan Bank and lives at 6007 N. Sheridan in Chicago. Pat also mentioned that CARL LISH recently moved to Chicago, and lives at 701 Bennett, Palau'ne, HI., 60067. Thanks for the news, Pat. 
Thanks to those who sent a note or called in the last five years. For those who meant to, do it now! Send it to your new secretary. 
Jim Jennings Borg-Warner Corp. 200 South Michigan Ave. Chicago, 111. 60604 
'52 PROMOTIONS 

MICHAEL L. SULLIVAN has been appointed V-P of the Permatex Co., which produces sealants, adhesives, and other chemical products. Sullivan joined the company 10 years ago as a salesman and has been serving as director of marketing and sales. He lives in West Palm Beach, Fla., with his wife and two children. Sullivan served in the U.S. Marine Corps from 1952-54. ANDREW V. GIORGI, a practicing attorney in Gary, Ind. for 18 years, has been elected judge of Lake Superior Court in Gary. He resides with his wife and their four children in Gary. GERALD E. BACHMAN has been elected a senior vice president of The National Bank of North America, New York. Bachman, who was named last October to head the bank's newly formed Corporate Banking Div., has responsibility for the co-ordination of the National Division, Ship Loan Department, Financial District Division, and the commercial banking 
facilities of the Wall Street office. He 
joined the bank in 1962 and became a vice president in 1965. He lives in Westbury, N.Y., with his wife, Kathleen, and their three children. 
Dr. RICHARD R. GACEK, associate professor of Otolaryngology at Harvard Medical School, has won the Edmund Prince Fowler Award for the outstanding thesis presented this year to the Triological Society at Buffalo, N.Y. He was honored for a report of basic research on the nerve pathways in the brain and their balancing system related to eye muscles. He, and his wife, Elaine, have four children. They live at 28 Cranmore Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass. 
E. JEROME SCHAUB has been named project general manager of Boise Cascade's Ocean Pines recreation community on the Isle of Wight Bay near Ocean City, Md. Last year, he served as director of sales at the vacation center. Earlier he had been at Boise Cascade communities in Crown Point, Ind., and Goshen, Conn. He and his wife, Jacqueline, have a son and 3 daughters. 
And now a word from the "jet set". With JACK CUSICK serving as the organizer, BOB & Eileen BUTLER, CHARLIE & Marilyn SCHUBERT and Jack & his wife Gwynne had a mini-reum'on in Jamaica in Febraary. They rented a house in the Montego Bay area and lived like potentates for 10 days. With "Chas" Schubert as social chairman, Sorin Hall South was a bundle of laughs and absolutely no sleep. Bob sent a photo of the three '52ers living it up—all look great and it is pretty obvious, from the tie, that "Chas" is wearing, he must be a successful used-car salesman. 
Recently some bum information was printed about CHARLIE PAQUETTE. Charlie was transferred to West Palm Beach, Fla. by Pratt & ^Vhitney. He has to "bach" it as there was no room for his wife and eight kids. So after seven months away from the brood, Chariie is now back in Longmeadow, Mass. Be it ever so decadent, there's no place like home, huh Charlie? 
BILL OSBORNE, an old roomy of Charlie's is living in Clinton, Iowa. He is plant super for DuPont there. He and his wife, Maureen, have six big Indians now. DON WILLIAMS is a design project engineer with Pratt & Whitney Aircraft in East Hartford, Conn, and living in Man­chester, Conn. He, and his wife Gloria, have four children. 
Gents, reunion is only one year away so start on your diets and with the money you save, journey to South Bend in '72. Good Lord, it will be 20 years. For you other fun-seekers, don't forget the ND-Southern Calif, game this fall, Oct. 23. This should be a great one. Pat Neville has accepted the chairmanship of this gala event. He can fix you up with reservations but tickets will have to be purchased through your contributing Alumni applications. 
William B. King 613 E. Donmoyer Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46614 


'53 NO MORE THREATS 
There is an inherent shortcoming in com­mencmg a column about the class of '53 with the sad news, particularly when I believe the majority reflect with such 

fondness upon our days at ND. The last issue of the ALUMNUS reported the passing of JOHN SENG on Sept. 10, 1970. No additional details were made available. The report shows his address to have been 5555 N. Sheridan Rd., Chi­cago, HI. 60640. REV. ERNIE BARTELL, JOHN PAIRITZ (South Bend C.P.A.) and HARRY and BRIAN KELLY all suffered the loss of their respective fathers. These losses in death were remembered by our class through requiem Masses made avail­able from the fund established in 1968. REV. DANIEL CURTIN, a religion teacher for many of us and now assistant campus supervisor for the Holy Cross Fathers offered the Masses. Please also include these items in your daily prayers. 
Apparently I was the only one in the United States that didn't know of Brian Kelly's Thanksgiving Day motorcycle accident which apparently almost cost him his life. An April 12 item from the Detroit Free Press indicates that after a long struggle, Brian can use his right arm and leg and he has recovered his faculties of speech though the muscle injury has created a slight accent in his speech. He may be reached in care of Columbia Pictures, 1438 N. Gower Street, Hollywood, California 90028. 
I owe an apology to TOM FELD­PAUSCH the co-proprietor of 11 supermarkets and three party shops, headquartered at Albion, Mich. I saw Tom at the Creighton-ND basketball game and promised to look into regional NCAA tickets and get right back to him. I didn't, and possibly 1 can redeem myself next year if ND is the host school. He doesn't look a day older than he did in June of 1953 and reports all is well. He has not heard from ALEX DUNN, his roommate for four years, in many a month. How come Alex? 
I received a letter from FATHER JOHN NOLAN, O.P. who reports he is working part-time as a chaplain-counselor in a Massachusetts psychiatric hospital. The balance of his time is spent taking courses in the area of psychology and he is most enthused over his work. He promises to make it to the reunion in 1973. Fr. Nolan may be reached at Saint Stephen's Priory, Dover, Mass. 02030. He also reports JIM PFOHL is still a bachelor and very busy with his plastics and hotel ventures, though Jim's father recently suffered a heart attack. ALAN PANDO apparently hosted John during the Easter season in New York. Thanks Fr. John and don't wait another 15 years. 
The impatient pleas for news brought a note from ADOLFO CALERO from Managua, Nicaragua. He states, "I am breaking my 18-year silence to help replete your depleted initial zeal." He has been married for 13 yeais and has two children. He is general manager of Coca-Cola and took up law as a hobby. (In my book this is no hobby, it's work.) Will receive his degree this year. He is also active in politics. Adolfo also says he saw MARCOS ROCES in Hong Kong last October. The entire class has an open invitation to Managua but he will sec us all in 1973 if our travel plans do not embrace Managua. Thanks for your efforts to replete my depleted zeal. 
RAY KORZEN writes from Orlando, Fla. and he is the sales manager for CNA/Insurance Accident & Health branch office in the southeast. His area respon­


rats 
Kearney Cassidy Cacciapaglia 
Scliellenherg Rtiss Smith 
John J. Kearney '45 is the new vice president, engineering and oper­ations division of Edison Electric Institute, the trade association of investor-owned electric power companies. He serves on committees on energy resources, atomic power, nuclear fuels, power systems coordination and international cooperation. 
Dr. James E. Cassidy '46, an internist at Elmhurst, III., has been appointed chief of staff at Loyola U. Hospital. He also is assistant professor of medicine in the Stritch School of Medicine which, with the hospital and dental school, forms the Loyola U. Medical Center in Maywood, III. 
Frank Cacciapaglia Jr. '47 has been named executive director of the Commerce Technical Advisory Board which assists the U.S. Secretary of Commerce in matters of science and technology. He will be on loan from the U.S. Patent Office where he is a primary examiner. 
Robert W. Schellenberg '48 is the new vice president and general manager of Post-Newsweek Inc., WJXT-TV in Jacksonville, Fla. He has served as general sales manager since 1962 having joined the stations in 1951 after being associated with the Mjnute Maid Corp., as district sales manager. 
Charles F. Russ Jr. '49 has been appointed president and chief execu­tive officer of Parkview-Gem, Inc., a drug and discount store chain based in Kansas City, Mo. Russ received a J.D. degree from the 
U. of Chicago and after four years of private practice served for two years as an assistant state's attorney. 
David D. Smith '51, director of program development for the Dillingham Environmental Co., La Jolla, Calif., has been promoted to the rank of captain in the U.S. Naval Reserve. Commissioned a Naval officer upon graduation, he was sent to the Arctic to do oceanographic and hydrographic surveys. 
sibility embraces parts of Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, Tennesee, Louisiana and Mississippi. He has been with CNA since graduation with a two-year Air Force interlude which was spent Stateside. He has been in Chicago, Philadelphia, back to Chicago and went to Florida in early 1969. While in Philadelphia he married his secretary. They now have two children, Kim (8) and Scott (4). With the advent of Disneyland in central Florida, I interpretc his splendid letter as an implicit invitation for us to visit him in Orlando. Thanks a million Ray for your veo' great letter. 
The Alumni Office reports that TOM ECKLAND is national sales manager for Chamberlain Manufacturing Corp. in their aluminum products division. Tom spent 16 years with U.S. Gypsum and is very active in the Deerfield, III. area. Tom and his wife and five children live at 135 Carlisle Ave., Deerfield, III. Tom, if you get to South Bend to sell your pots and pans, give me a call. 
JERRY HAMMES reports, at my insistence, that KEN STEAD distributes decorative fabrics nationally from Chicago Heights, 111. TOM O'BRIEN (sec last column respecting our Indianapolis father) and Jerry were elected as officers in the Concord Life Insurance Company at their recent annual meeting. Concord is based in Arizona. Jerry is also in a business venture with SANDY PERRY '52 and TONY PERRY '54 in Maocrest Woods, Crete, 111. This development has a "Notre Dame Ave." Congratulations guys. Jerry also calls our attention to the fact that JIM BRITT achieved 397 percent of his goal in the Dayton-Springfield area. This fine record stands without comment. 
Saw GEORGE FARRELL who was inter­viewing on campus for Pittsburgh Mellon Bank some four or five weeks ago. He looks good. BILL MAUS anticipates seeing JOHN O'TOOLE in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. this spring. ART CASEY writes his first note to the Alumni column after his "graduation too many years ago." He is in the insurance-real estate business with Harris & Bunting and became a partner the first of the year. Art is in St. Davids, Penn. and still a bachelor. How come all the bachelors have time to write? Maybe they will give us some of their secrets in 1973. 
The response to the pleas for contributions is a little more encouraging so no more threats about discontinuance of the column. If you do not care to write about yourself sit down and write about the doings of your close friends from school days and com­mence to make plans for the reunion in 1973. Keep the notes and cards coming. 
John T. Mulvihill 
645 First Bank BIdg. South Bend, Ind. 
'55 MARK IT DOWN 

Before I forget it, mark down the Southern Cal game on Oct. 23 for this year's post-game reunion. Get the gang together now and send in your ticket blanks early. 
Enjoyed a postcard from AL COWLES and Betty: "Easter greetings from Turkey and Greece. Wish we'd have paid more attention during our history classes. Cruising the Aegean on the S.S. Stella Oceanic. I-ovely trip!" 
BOB DEBREY is mighty proud of his Minneapolis design firm, which received a 
national award in the 1970 Western Electronics Show and Convention in Los Angeles. The entry was Uniscope 100, a graphic display terminal through which a person mth ordinary typing skills can communicate with a computer system. DR. ED TOOMEY continues his hectic pace. In addition to ser\'ing as director of a project designed to take medical and health care to more than 5,000 migrant farm work­ers in Massachusetts, he also is active in the Charles T. Toomey Foundation that provides venture capital for community hospital developments. This foundation also provides a link between the strong com­munity hospitals in the northeast and under-equipped hospitals in the remote regions of Appalachia. Ed and his wife, Janet, now have two daughters, Elisa (5) and Cynthia, nearly a year. 
LOU CENTLIVRE, vice president and 
creative director of Bonsib, Inc., a Fort 
Wayne ad agency, has been named senior 
V-P. He will continue his duties as creative 
director. BILL LETTERER is one of 
Chicago's brightest young playwrights. 
Here's some information on men who have recently moved. If they've moved into your area, give them a call . . . WILBUR SCHAEFER, 870 N. Pemberton Dr., Bloomfield Hills, Mich.; DICK FARRELL, 372 Central Park Ave., Scarsdale, N.Y.; DICK MILLER, St. Mary's Hospital, 89 Genesee St., Rochester, N.Y.; JIM CORCORAN, 420 Forest Ave., Dayton; BERNIE SMYTH, 10755 University Ave., Edmonton, Alberta. 
A personal note. Some of you may remember my younger brother, who was known as "Peanut" 15 years ago. This month he was made a deacon in the diocese of JolieL Hugh met Rev. JOHN RYAN, who has several classmates in his parish. I mentioned GUY PIERCE in a previous column, and Father John said that he has seen JOHN PIMENTA, too. 
Many of you will remember REV. WILLIAM McAULIFFE CSC who has switched from discipline work to fund raising for the Priests of the Holy Cross. If you would like a box of 12 Mass cards, just send $3 to Father at Box K, Notre Dame. 
Hope you enjoyed FRANK MAIER's cover story in Newsweek on Chicago's Richard J. Daley. Incidentally, in its post­election "After Daley?" story, the Chicago Daily News mentioned both JOE BERTRAND, who was elected city treasurer, and DAN SHANNON, who is president of the Chicago Park District. Dan recently was named chief executive officer of the Wemer-Kennelly moving firm. The late mayor Martin H. Kennelly helped found the firm. 
Hats off to TOM CAREY, who was elected first vice president of the ND Club of Chicago in April. JERRY HILLSMAN was elected treasurer of the club. Con­gratulations, too, to the other '55ers who are officers of their local clubs. 1 see that several of you are seri'ing as secretary— MIKE O'TOOLE in Boston and PAT CANNON in Cleveland. 
BOB ZEIS has been appointed business manager of the Denver Post. He has served as classified ad salesman, retail ad salesman, assistant personnel director and assistant business manager since joining the paper in 1955. Congratulations to EMMET CASSIDY on the birth of his daughter, Elaine Frances, and to JOHN WEITHERS, on the birth of his daughter, Mary Florence. John has moved right behind DICK BURKE, buying the home of JACK GITS at 919 Monroe in River Forest, 111. Jack has moved out further west to Oak Brook (no address yet) to be closer to his business. 
GEORGE RIORDAN, would you believe that your old roomie, JOE HEGNER, finally has taken the plunge? Joe married the former Mary Mitman on April 17 in Havcrtown, Pa. 
Our sympathy to BILL BRONDER, whose father died last August. 
Paul Fullmer 
1922 Larkdale Dr. 
Glenview, 111. 60025 
'56 SKI AT ASPEN 
In March 1971, my wife Gretchen and 1 visited Aspen, Colo, for a week of skiing. We visited DICK FITZGERALD and his wife Sally. Dick has been highly successful in operating "Fitzgerald Realty" and is a leader in the Aspen community. In addi­tion to skiing, he and his wife and two children enjoy the summer recreational advantages of the area. MIKE KILEY notes that Major MIKE MUL­ROONEY, U.S.M.C, is presently sening at Okinawa and will be unable to attend our 15th reunion. PAUL UEBELHOR, displaying exemplary total dedication and loyalty to the Fighting Irish, ran an ad in the Dubois County Daily Herald extolling our Cotton Bowl win. 
JAMES T. RENO has been promoted to vice president with the Bank of America's National Division at Los Angeles head­quarters. He has been with the bank since 1968 and was in charge of the foods and related products section. He resides in the Los Angeles suburb of Granada Hills with his wife, Patricia and their four children. WILLIAM M. SULLIVAN has been named assistant general counsel and director for the legal department for the newly merged CIBA-GEIGY Corp., Ardslcy, New York. He had been a member of Geigy's corporate legal staff and counsel to its pharmaceutical division. With his wife and four children, he lives in North Tarrytown, N.Y. 
Dr. FRANK PETRELLA, JR. has been promoted to the rank of full professor at Holy Cross College, Worchester, Mass. He is the author of many articles in professional journals and is doing research for a book entitled Classical Economics. 
JOHN J. NEVIN has been promoted to manager of distribution planning services for Eli Lilly and Co., Indianapolis. He joined the firm in 1956 as methods and incentives analyst and later was transferred to the Elanco Products Co. Division as sales service assistant before promotion to chief of order service. In 1967 he was named department head of sales service and distribution at the company's center in Fresno, Calif. 
DAVID J. NEVIN is president of the new firm of Davin-Jorgensen Advertising Inc., at Brighton, N.Y. Davin has held marketing and sales positions with Bausch & Lomb, Inc. and Corning Glass Works. He lives at 400 W. Jackson St., Palmyra, 
N.Y. MICHAEL P. MALLARDI has been elected vice president for planning and analysis of the American Broadcasting Co., New York. He has been vice president, general manager and treasurer of Straus Broadcasting Group, Inc. He resides at 10 Chumwood Dr., SufTem, N.Y. 10901. PETER CANNON has been elected a director of the Potomac Savings & Loan Association of Reston, Va. Cannon, who is the Washington representative of the ITT Research Institute, Chicago, is active in a number of Reston organizations. 

DEAN F. DAVIS has been named vice president to head the investment loan department of First Bank & Trust Co., South Bend, Ind. He has been with the bank since graduation, serving as a branch manager in Kalamazoo, Mich, and Kansas City, Mo., and as regional vice president in the Chicago and Wisconsin-Minnesota region before his affiliation with First Bank. Had a brief visit with JIM GAMMON while at the Federal Communications Commission in April. Jim is practicing law in Washington, D.C. and is a partner in the firm of Molnar & Gammon, specializing in communications law. Jim and I crossed paths while 1 was on a trial at the Federal Communications Commission. 
Eugene P. O'Connor 
656 EUicutt Square BIdg. 
Buffalo, N.Y. 14203 
'57 THE FIRST AND LAST HURRAH? 
Your class secretary must apologize for his blowing the last three issues. I entered the world of politics in the Chicago scene and was tied up in a tough campaign from December through February and besides not practicing law in that period, the column was neglected. Incidentally, although the vote was close, I didn't win. If anyone wants to lose weight 1 would recommend a campaign once in a while to knock off some of the pounds. 
Backing up to the past football season, 1 believe 1 can report that ND vs North­western game was one of our most successful "informal" class reunions. A large group of husbands and wives made it over to one of the local pubs and had a great time thanks to BOB and Mary Lee ECKLAND's efforts. Preseni and sober were: TOM and Becky BRENNAN, BOB CALABRESE, JIM and Denise CULLINAN, PAT SHEERIN, PAUL and Rhonda BYRON, BOB and Helga COYNE, BILL and Nancy Jo MADDUX, FRANK and Donna HEN­NESSEY, GUS and Eda SCIACQUA, RON PATOIZE and yours truly and wife, Marilyn. 
Our class reunion at the LSU game had a few rough spots since a meeting place after the game seemed to have been lost in the shuffle and some did not make connections. A good crew came out of Chicago via charter bus with the South well represented with GERALD and Barb GERAMl, the MANNY RIVAs, GENE REAUX and many of their LSU friends. Present at the bar in the Athletic & Convocation Center afterwards were: DICK BROWN, BOB SALVINO, JIM KENNEDY, BILL McGOWAN, TOM HUGUELET, JERRY THEES, JOHN GIBBS, STEVE O'DON­NELL, MOORE McDONOUGH, JOHN McMEEL, TERRY CONWAY and JIM MILOTA. After a few snorts, they could not resist in displaying their "athletic" abilities of the past and accepted a chal­lenge from a few undergrads to a relay race around the indoor track. Needless to say all bets went with the youth. Terry and Jim did our class proud until disaster on the final turn when anchorman Jim "slipped" and tumbled to the earth. Maybe next year Jim and Terry. 
I am certainly sorry to have missed the 
Cotton Bowl this year but agents PAT 
SHEERIN and BOB SALVINO, who took 
his wife, Carrie this year, reported back to 
say it was a great time and victory was 
sweet. How about the Orange Bowl next 
year? 
TOM HUGUELET reports through wife, 
Kay, that his business, Gibbs & Huguelet, 
Inc., is doing great in the computer installa­
tion, designing and consulting on data 
processing in Chicago. JACK ROBINSON 
reports that he hasn't been back from the 
Far East more than six months, and is now 
being transferred to Houston, Tex., from 
the East Coast. Congratulations to old 
buddy, JOHN BRENNAN, on accepting a 
VP spot with the Boatmen's National Bank 
of St. Louis. He promised to look up 
HANK LUEPKE and MATT WEISS. Our 
class should be proud of BILL 
McGOWAN's election to National ND 
Alumni Board. If you have any ideas for 
BILL to pass on write him at the American 
Fletcher National Bank, Indianapolis, Ind. 
46204. 
JACK CUSACK has left the U.S. Justice Department for the "lucrative" private practice and has joined JOHN BEGGAN in the Chicago firm of Gardner, Carton, Douglas, Chilgren & Waud. 
Saw FATHER JOHN SMYTH in March and he reports all is well and he looks like he still plays a full court game every day. Our condolences and sympathy to BOB GRIFFIN, on the death of his mother; DON RENIER, on the death of his father and DON MACHENBERG, on the death of his father, all in January 1971. Your column needs help so pass on the news. 
George W. Groble 
111 W. Washington St. 
Chicago, 111. 60602 
'58 FALL PARTY SET 
Annual Fall Reunion—Following Michigan 
State game, Oct. 2, Mahogany Room, 
Morris Inn. 
Our sympathy is extended to four class­mates whose fathers have died during the past few months. We were sorry to hear of the deaths of the fathers of JOSEPH ELL AM (Oct. 10, 70); LYNN HANKES (Nov. 12, 70); GARY V. ZIMMERMAN (Nov. of 70); and RICHARD W. CARNEY (Nov. of 70). We know your prayers would be appreciated. 
FRED G. HOLZL has received the "Man of the Year" award given by the Sentry Life Insurance Company of Stevens Point, Wis. In addition to his duties as agency manager in Skokie, III., he is superintendent of agencies for the Company in Nebraska, Colorado, Ohio and Missouri. MICHAEL R. LEYDEN has been elected V-P in the trust department of the First National Bank of Chicago. He received a 
J.D. degree in 1965 from Loyola U. Law School. Leyden resides with his wife and their children in Elk Grove Village, 111. EDWARD B. BRODERICK has been made a senior partner in the law firm of LaBrun and Deal in Philadelphia. He and his wife, the former Mary Anne Lindstrom (SMC '59) have adopted a son, Edward Matthew, bom Jan. 4, 1971. They live at 5019 Smithfield Road, Drexel Hill, Penn. 
DANIEL W. O'BRIEN has joined the staff of the South Bend office of William 
C. Roney & Co., Stockbrokers. O'BRIEN, a veteran of four years in the Marine 
Corps, has been in the investment business 
since 1965, after- being registered by the 
New York Stock Exchange. 
RICHARD C. MEYER, of the U. S. 
Agency for International Development, 
has completed a four and a half year 
assignment in Saigon, Vietnam, and returned 
to Washington for a new assignment. 
GEORGE T. OSER has been elected 
president of the school board at Houston, 
Tex. Oser, who has a doctorate in physics 
from the U. of Michigan, is a geophysicist 
with the Shell Oil Corp. THOMAS J. 
CROZIER JR. has been named super­
intendent of the claims department at the 
Brockton Casualty and Surety Division 
Office of Aetna Life & Casualty. He has 
been serving the company's home office in 
Hartford, Conn, for the past three years. He 
lives at 56 Gannet Road, N. Scituate. 
LT. CMDR. THOMAS C. BARTHOL­OMEW flew the "swim two" helicopter in the Apollo 14 recovery mission on February 9. A Navy pilot, BARTHOLO­MEW resides in Bonita, Calif., with his wife and two children. His aircraft carried the "back up" frogmen who flew to the splash­down site from the New Orleans. MICHAEL V. HERMAN, M.D. of 53 Garden Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass., has been promoted to the faculty of medicine at Harvard U as assistant professor of medicine. With the exception of two years when Dr. Herman served the U. S. Naval Reserve as a lieutenant commander and cardiologist at the Naval Hospital at San Diego, Calif., he has been associated with Peter Bent Brigham Hospital since his internship in 1962-63. 
AUBREY C. LEWIS, assistant vice president, career development for F. W. Woolworth Co., was one of the speakers at the 60th Annual National Retail Merchants Association convention in New York. Under the topic "Motivation: The Key to a Productive Work Force," he drew a parallel between the game of football and the business of retailing. MARTIN J. CONWAY is completing a graduate intern­ship with the committee on public health and welfare in the Florida house of representatives. He is enrolled in the graduate school of social work at Florida State U. Prior to attending graduate school, Conway worked in California as a welfare worker, in Illinois as a probation officer and with the Catholic Big Brothers' Organization. 
DR. JOHN M. MACDONALD recendy completed a fellowship in thoracic surgery at St. Bartholomew Hospital in London, and is returning to the US this summer. John and his wife, Karrie, at time of writing had two sons and were expecting their third child. John will begin a practice in general surgery in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., the location of another classmate, DR. BOB LENAR. John completed a five-year surgical residency at the U. of Pittsburgh in 1970. 
JERRY BURKE was married last New Year's Eve to the former Judy Nelson (SMC '62) in Holy Name Cathedral in Chicago. Jerry is still with Burke Motors, Inc., at 6455 S. Western Ave. in Chicago. Congratulations to Dr. and Mrs. JOSEPH 
P. EMMITE on the birth of a son, David Joseph, on Oct. 24, 1970. Their address: 5220 Long Shadow Drive, Dickenson, Tex. JOHN R. McCRANK, 140 Edgerton SL, Rochester, N.Y. 14607, writes with a brief resume as follows: He was married in 1959 to the former Marilyn Ryan and has six children, including one set of twins. John obtained his M.S. in biology from ND in 1960, and is teaching at Monroe High School, in Rochester. He also reports that DICK. WALTZ is with Babcock and Wilcox in Akron, and is now the father of four sons; and that MICHAEL PHILLIPS has been named supervisor ol the thermo­plastics division of Rome Cable Co., and is living in Clinton, N.Y. 
Arthur L. Roule, Jr. 1610 Fifth St. La Porte, Ind. 46350 
'59 BETTER IDEA 

Sometime this month you will be receiving your applications for the six home football games. For the past few years the Class of '59 has sponsored a post-game reunion after one of the home games. However, JIM COONEY (classmate and executive director of our Alumni Association) "has a better idea," and will sponsor post-game reunions (after each home game) in the north arena of the Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. Areas will be marked for the respective classes and a cash bar will be provided. This is a great way to "see old friends," wait for the parking lots to clear, and allow your class secretary to get some information from you for future class columns! Of course, whenever you are on campus, please contact Jim or me—we might even buy you a drink at the University Club! 
Classmates visiting recently were GERRY BRODERICK, DICK RAUPP and BILL CASEY. Gerry spent a few vacation days with Ann and JIM COONEY (reliving the trio's participation in the University Theatre). Gerry is living on 16th Street in Manhattan, is with J. Walter Thompson, and handles the Eastman Kodak account. Dick was here on campus, lecturing on data processing systems in the College of Buiiness Administration (he's with Haskins and Sells in Chicago), and renewing his friendship with Professor PETER BRADY. Bill Casey manages to attend a few of the Irish football scrimmages, taking notes for his own teams at Notre Dame High School in Niles, III. If you do have a chance to visit the campus, we hope you'll have a chance to personally congratulate Professor FRANK O'MALLEY, who received an honorary degree at Commencement last month. 
On January 1, WARREN F. GRIENEN­BERGER became a partner of the Chicago law firm of Gardner, Carton, Douglas, Chilgren & Waud. He spent 1959 to 1963 at the U. of Michigan working on his law degree and an M.B.A., was in Europe from 1963-1964, and has been with the firm since late 1964. Warren is married, has a three­year-old son, and lives in Kenilworth. DON O'BRIEN is in his fifth and final year of urologic surgery residency at the U. of Washington (Seattle) and next month will move to Eugene, Ore., where he is joining the Eugene Hospital and Clinic stafi'. His son, Daniel, is 3, and the O'Briens adopted a baby in December, 1969. TOM LEE has been transferred back to Minneapolis (5509 Downcaster Way, Edina, Minn.) from Great Falls, Mont. On June 30, Pat and JACK. THOMAS will be moving from Edina (not because Tom just moved there) to the Twin CiU'es suburb of Wayzata (18615-29th Ave., North, 55391). The Thomases' real reason is No. 3 child, Brian Joseph, who was bom March 16. 
The ERNEST C. NIEDBALAs (wife 
Mary and son Mike) moved last July from New Brunswick, NJ., to Los Altos, Calif. After working for IT&T out of the corporate headquarters as a financial con­sultant, Ernie was promoted to Western Area Comptroller of one of their divisions. Canteen Corp. One of his working associ­ates is FRANK LEAHY, who is the Assistant to the Canteen president, and Ernie reports that "The 'Coach' is really a terrific guy and a great person to work with." TOM HALLIGAN, a graduate of the U. of Vermont Medical School, has completed his four-year residency in general surgery at St. Francis Hospital, Hartford, Conn. Tom has opened an office in Hartford (206 Ashley St.) for the practice of general surgery, and he and his wife (and four children) live on Spring Lane, West Hartford. When you're in the Andover, Mass., area, be sure to check on DICK KATIS (1 Twin Brooks Circle, 01810). Dick is still with Mallinckrodt Chemical, handling sales for New England 
and New York State. Dick mentions that he and Mary now have four girls, are ex­pecting No. 5 in August, and is anxiously awaiting word from his old roomie, GEORGE CLEMENTS, who has relocated in the Chicago area. 
Sean Burkhard is the name selected by the DAN CROSSENS for their second son. Dan has a Buffalo area address (7 Mt. Airy Rd., Orchard Park, New York, 14127). Another Buffalo classmate, BILL KANE, reports the death of his mother (March 4) and we know you'll join us in remembering her in prayer. 
We have "tracked down" a few more classmates: JIM HANLON (Cheshire, Conn.), HARRY RYAN (Simsbury, Conn.), WILLIAM MARK SACKINGER (Depart­ment of Electrical Engineering, U. of Alaska, College, Alaska), BILL BITTNER (Burlington, Ont.), RON BLOOM (East Falmouth, Mass.). JOHN FINN (Redondo Beach, Calif.), TOM GILL (Oak Park, 111.), BOB BRAND (Corte Madera, Calif.), Rev. DICK BERG CSC (West Lafayette, Ind.), JOHN HASLEY, M.D. (Spartan­burg, S.C), HUGH FERRY (Lanham, Md.), KEVIN C. SMITH (Decatur. Ga.), HAROLD AUGUSTINE (Margate, Fla.), MARTY KELLY (West Chester, Ohio), JOHN B. O'BRIEN, M.D. (Daly City, Calif.), TOM REINHART (Edina, Minn.), DUNCAN LaVIGNE (Brookfield, Wise.), DAVE COSTELLO (Buffalo, N.Y.), JOE NEUHOFF (Dallas), CLARENCE COL­BERT (Memphis), TERRY HARTIGAN (Dunwoody, Ga.), RAY VAN OVER­SCHELDE (Northport, L.I., N.Y.), and LEO SWIAT (Kalamazoo, Mich.). Drop me a note if you have any additional in­formation on this group, or concerning any of our classmates. Many thanks. 
Joseph P. Mulligan Box 99 Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

'60L \VHERE ARE THEY NOW? 
I've been having a more active correspond­ence with PAUL ROONEY, class secretary of '62L (who makes his own news and publishes his own news releases), than with any of you. However, there is some news of our own group. 
Mary Anne and JACK KUBIAK have recently become the proud parents of Karen Michelle and I was honored in being her godfather—^in the traditional sense. 
tellows, not the popular one. DICK. COLLINS continues to make his occasional street appearances in Chicago's Loop. If you regularly walk around at lunch time you'll run into him about once every six months. A recent visit to St. Louis finds Mary Anne and TOM ERBS doing fine. 
Still no news at all in the past 10 years from any of GORDON HO, JIM BEATTIE, POGO REILLY, or BOB KUHNS. Can anyone help in locating them? 
John A. DiNardo 
450 Oakland Dr. 
Highland Park, 111. 60035 
'61 SENATORS 
Late April saw several of our class back on campus for the annual ND Alumni Senate meeting. Those from far away included TIM HINCHEY from San Diego, TIM LYNCH from Jacksonville, Fla. and MIKE WHITE from Portland, Ore. Those from nearby were CHUCK LENNON, BRIAN REGAN and JIM DETTLING. All are from South Bend and all represented the St. Joe Valley ND Club. 
As president of the San Diego Club, Tim Hinchey accepted the Outstanding Club Award (Type C) given by the ND Alumni Association. Congratulations Timothy. Mike White got the Outstanding Burglar (Type D) for his ability to pick the electronic lock at the University Club. 
The next report will cover the 10th reunion. And I'm sure it will be much longer. TIM HUGHES standing in for: 
Bill Henneghan 
30556 Scrivo Dr. 
Warren, Mich. 48902 
'62 WORD FILTERS IN 
As our tenth reunion approaches (June, 
1972) news of classmates is filtering in at 
an all time low. Please take a minute and 
jot down some information for the column. 
KEN COUGHLIN has been named a trust officer for the American National Bank & Trust in Chicago. Ken lives in Buffalo Grove, lU. CHARLIE SWITZER is leaving the bachelor ranks in June in East Lansing, Mich. Charlie still lives in Denver. JIM DANIEL sends a newsy letter from Fort Campbell, Ky., where he is with the Army as an internal medicine specialist. Jim recently finished his residency in Minneapolis and plans to return after his tour. He spent an afternoon recently with VINCE HARTIGAN and wife Kitty in Chicago. Vinnie, I need your address, give me a call. 
GERRY PLUKER's resume reads that he spent two years post-grad study in West Germany, got an M.A. from Oregon in 1967, was a professional ski instructor at Aspen the same year, served as a chef at the Arctic DEW Line '68-'69 and is presently managing director of Bridge Mountain in Ben Lomond, Calif, where he conducts professional workshops in massage while in the process of obtaining a marriage, family and Child Counselor's license. 
Some recent address changes find CHARLES TOSI in Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ., CHARLIE MANZELLA living in Wilmette, lU., Dr. JIM GRAYDON in Canton, Conn., JOE ZELLER residing in Hoffman Estates, 111., and BARRY RYAN making his home in Lexington, Ky. 

H. James Krauser 8301 Garfield St. Bethesda, Md. 20034 
'62L PELLETIER IS DEAN 
JOHN DELL has left his firm and gone 
into practice for himself in West Palm 
Beach. 
GEORGE A. PELLETIER is now the associate de.in of the Southern Methodist 
U. School of Law. George is also quite active in the Practicing Law Institute and recently served as director of a course on Franchise Litigation. 
Paul K. Rooney 
Rooney & Robinson 
60 East 42d St. 
New York, N.Y. 
'63 MILITARY MOVES 
Capt. JIM MARK has been assigned to Norton AFB, Calif., as a research officer. Capt. JOHN PEHLER received the ninth award of the Air Medal for meritorious achievement while airlifting relief supplies to the victims of the Peruvian earthquake of May 1970. M. J. FOSTER has been named manager of project engineering for the Cooper Tire and Rubber Co., of Findlay, Ohio. Capt. WALLACE BERKOWITZ is now assigned to Martin Army Hospital, Ft. Benning, Ga., where he is a physician. DAVE SEAMAN has been appointed first assistant Niagara County district attorney. Dave lives in Lockport, N.Y. JOHN SHAF has been appointed plant manager of National Can Corp's Detroit, Mich, plant. ROBERT KOCHES is selling insurance for Equitable Life in Vancouver, Wash. Wife Mary Rose writes that they have two sons, Jeff and Chris. PHILIP BERTONIS and wife and two sons are now living in California, where Phil is chairman of the mathematics department at South Junior High in the Anaheim Union High School District. Phil recently received his master's from the U. of Oklahoma. 
DONALD WISNER has been appointed to the staff of the DA in Rochester, N.Y. He lives at 17 Boxwood L.ane, Perinton, 
N.Y. with his wife and three children. L. ROBERT MCINTYRE and wife Marian report the birth of their first child. Holly Marie, on Christmas Day. They are living at 431 Castlewood Lane, Buffalo Grove, 
III.
 DR. DAVE FREDERICK writes that he saw TEX MOYLAN, M.D., over in Naples, where he was serving aboard a destroyer. Dave is now studying at Boston 

U.
 scliool of graduate dentistry in the periodontal prosthesis program, leading to the M. Sc. D. degree. Dave says that Maurice Gillespie, M.D., is married and is serving as staff physician at Gaeta, Italy, with the navy. "Moe" also spent a year in Vietnam. 


Thomas B. Hotopp R.D. No. 1 Big Flats, N.Y. 14814 
'64 IN NEW POSTS 
WILLIAM R. BORBLEY, of Manchester, Conn., has been appointed compliance officer, mutual fund in Aetna Financial Services, Inc., Hartford, Conn. He joined Aetna last year. Dr. MARTINO S. FAGGIONI is now in dental practice in Atlanta, Ga. After graduation he entered the Emory U. School of Dentistry, Atlanta, and received a D.D.S. degree in 1968. He entered the U.S. Navy in July that year and spent a year of service in Vietnam. 
WILLIAM J. O'CONNOR has been appointed an industrial financing officer for the Marine Midland Bank-Western, Buffalo, 
N.Y. O'Connor is being assigned to the Credit & Loan Administration Division. He resides with his wife and two children in Williamsville, New York. LYLE BAIE and his wife Sally are living in Houston, Tex. Since graduating from ND he received his master's degree in marine biology and his doctorate in oceanography from Texas A&M and is now working for Texaco of Houston. ROBERT V. BORLA received his juris doctor in June 1967 from the U. of Illinois College of Law. In April of 1969 he married the former Patricia Murphy of River Forest HI. They have a daughter, Carrisa Ann, who is six months old. 'They are living in N. Riverside, Illinois. 
THOMAS E. SERGE has joined Carter & Futter Advertising Inc., of South Bend, Ind., as manager of its public relations division. 
WALT GAJDA received his Ph.D. in electrical engineering from M.I.T. in January 1969 and joined the faculty of ND as an assistant professor of electrical engineering in February of that year. Walt and his wife Ruthann welcomed their first child, a daughter. Colleen Anne, in January of this year. 
CAPT. DAVID P. GARNER, USMC is 
now commanding his second lOSmm 
howitzer battery in Vietnam. Dave hopes 
to be home in June. He will join his wife, 
Terri and girls in California. JOHN E. 
O'NEILL is a program analyst for The 
Service Bureau Corporation in Greenbelt 
Md. 
JAMES F. FRASOR is a stockbroker 
with Blyth and Co. Inc. in Chicago. He 
married the former Carta Ann Nessel. 
THOMAS E. WALTER completed two 
years with the army and is now practicing 
law with the firm of Redmond and Ugan of 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
ROGER FOLEY and his wife live in South Bend, Ind., and they have a son, Michael Francis. NICHOLAS G. MULLER is Legal Counsel for Gates Aviation Corp. Denver, Colorado. His wife is the former Sally Anne Diggles, St. Mary's '64. They have two children. 
ROBERT M. PATTERSON is working for IBM Corp. in the data processing division. Bob and his wife have two children. JAMES H. DALEY completed VA years as a Navy officer and is now employed as an insurance underwriter with Nationwide Ins. in Columbus, Ohio. TED TOPOLSKI is working as a salesman for IBM in Toledo, Ohio. He is married to the former Sally Kennedy and they have a daughter. 
LOUIS W. BRENNER is practicing law in St. Paul, Minn., where he lives with his wife, Lois, and three children. T. H. SCHNITZIUS lives in Austin, Tex. with his wife Kay and their son. He is working for TeleCom Corp. THOMAS A. CARLSON lives in Haslett, Mich., where he is working as an assistant attorney general for the state of Michigan. Tom was discharged from the army in 1969. DR. C. P. CRAINE graduated from the Univ. of Detroit Dental School and Northwestern Univ. in Orthodontics. 
Clay StejAens 
206 Marian Ave. 
Fanwood, NJ . 07023 
'65 SECRETARY TO MOVE 
ROBERT GAENSSLEN has been named an assistant prof, in the John Jay College of Criminal Justice at City U. of New York. In January he received his doctorate in biochemistry at Cornell U. Bob lives with his wife and daughter in Forest Hills, N.Y. JACK SHERIDAN interned in Florida last year and is now in St. Louis for an ortho­pedic surgery residency at Barnes Hospital. Jack and his wife have one child, Patrick. Both KEN PIERCE and JIM REYNOLDS are living in St. Louis practicing Law. GEORGE CONVY is still single and is working in the packaging industry in St. Louis. George is a member of the Coast Guard Reserve. Also single and residing in St. Louis is NEIL MCDONALD who works with the CPA firm of Touche, Ross & Co. 
After he graduated from the U. of Virginia Law School BOB LEGGAT entered the Army and received an infantry commission through the OCS at Ft. Benm'ng. Bob is now serving in Vietnam as a prosecuting attorney for the First Held Force. JACK CICIARELLI has received an appointment as assistant prof, of geology beginning in September in the Department of Geology and Geophysics, Penn State U. This summer Jack will be teaching a geology course for ND's Geology Department. Jack and wife, Kathy, have one son, Gregory John, bom in February. 
After spending two years in the army at the NATO headquarters in Izmir, Turkey, STEVE THOMAS and his wife, Fran, have settled in Port Huron, Mich. Steve is associated with the local law firm of Cummings and Monagban. LT. GERALD WYSOCKI is serving as a legal officer aboard the aircraft carrier USS Hancock in Yankee Station, Vietnam. Gerald was recently admitted to the New Jersey bar after receiving his J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. He also is engaged to IJnda Shirley, a United Airiines Stewardess from Knox, Ind. A July wedding is planned. 
After receiving his M.B.A. in Feb. at Columbia U.'s School of Business, TONY PERRONE rejoined the Johns-Manville Corp. in NYC as manager of financial evaluations in their corporate planning department. Tony and wife, Valerie (SMC '65), live in Park Ridge, NJ. with their two daughters, ages 414 and 3. Valerie teaches art there. TOM FLANAGAN received his Ph.D. in political science from Duke U. in June, 1970. At present he is serving as an assistant prof, at the U. of Calgary in Alberta. Tom and wife, Eleanor, have two children and plan a research trip to Europe soon. 
Our class column is in sincere need of material. Please scribble a quick note as to where you are and what you are doing. Once again please note that as of August 1 all mail should be directed to my new address (8661 S.E 75th Place, Mercer Island, Wash. 98040) where I wiU be engaged in research for the Venereal Disease Branch of the National Center for Disease Control. 
James P. Hamisch, M.D. 3700 Buford Highway, Apt 98 Atlanta, Ga. 30329 
Antrobtts Carideo O'Connell 
Monahan Welch Vogel 
Dewey C. Antrobus '56 is staff engineer in the project development department at the Enjay Chemical Company's Baton Rouge, La., plant. He joined the firm in 1956 and has held posts in the mechanical en­gineering and project development departments. He lives at 466 Sherwood Forest Blvd., with his wife, Helen, and their five children. 
James V. Carideo '57 has been appointed general counsel for GT&E Data Services Corp., a subsidiary of General Telephone & Elec­tronics Corp. His oflSce will be in the corporate headquarters in Tampa, Fla. A graduate of Fordham U. School of Law in New York, Carideo was engaged in private law practice for five years. 
Rev. Marvin R. O'Connell Ph.D. '59 received the 1971 Professor of the Year award by vote of faculty colleagues at the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn. The presentation was the highlight of the annual St. Thomas Day celebration, March 6. A member of the St. Thomas faculty since 1959, Fr. O'Connell is the author of two recent historical works on the Counter Reformation in England. 
Michael T. Monahan '60 has been advanced to vice president at Manu­facturers Bank, Detroit. He joined the bank in 1960 and has been assigned to the national division of the U.S. Banking Department. He resides with his wife and three sons in Southfield, Mich. 
William J. Welch Jr. '61 is the new contract sales manager for the Inmont Corp., New York, N.Y. The firm's distributor products include a line of vinyl-coated wall coverings and upholstery fabrics. Welch joined the corporation in 1965 as a field representative in Texas after service in the Marine Corps. 
Michael J. Vogel '65 has been named president and division manager of the newly formed men's shoe sales division of the Douglas Shoe Co. and Fortune Shoe Co. of Genesco Inc. Vogel joined Genesco's execu­tive training program in 1965. Most recently he has been president of Douglas Shoe Co., and will retain that title in the new organization. 
'66 STILL TIME 
This is one of those nebulous columns to write because some of you will be reading it just prior to REUNION '71 festivities and some afterward. At any rate, if you're reading it beforehand it's still not too late to pack a bag and join us on campus. If you're perusing this after the fact you missed one heckuva weekend. Some 200 or so of the men of '66 gathered for our first rite of June. Plan now to make it for our 10th in June of 1976. 
DENNY FRAILEY writes from Dallas, Tex. where he is an assistant prof, with the Institute of Technology at Southern Methodist. Denny was married on Aug. 16, 1969 on campus and in January 1971 received his Ph.D. in computer science from Purdue. ALBERT VITTER III has also received his Ph.D. Albert's Ph.D. was in mathematics and was achieved at Princeton. 
PAUL D. MARCEAU was ordained a priest in the Congregation of the Holy Cross on September 12 at Moreau Seminary. His first Mass was celebrated September 13th in Little Flower Church in South Bend where he will first assume his duties. His first solemn Mass was celebrated on September 20th in his home parish of St. Anne's in Alpena, Mich. Father Paul was assisted in that Mass by his brother. Rev. Emmett Marceau. BRIAN BOYCE is stationed in Washington, D.C., where he is a liaison officer at the Naval Research Laboratory. Brian has also been with the Navy in Long Beach, Calif, and in Honolulu. He is the proud dad of a young daughter, Suzanne. CAPT. JACK. HAN­AGAN is a U.S.A.F. pilot in Thailand where he is flying a C-123. Jack stays in touch with other Air Force captains, BILL ST. PAUL, who is stationed in London and TOM LOVE, who is in Turkey and is scheduled to complete his tour of duty in May. 
BOB HAINES is living in Indianapolis, where he is serving with the FBI after graduating from the U. of North Carolina Law School. DAN OVERHOLSER is also in Indianapolis where he is serving on a three-year postdoctoral fellowship in Oral Medicine. Dan received his I).D.S. a year ago and is the proud father of a little girl, Cindy. Dan and his lovely wife. Erica, spent New Year's in Dallas watching the big ND victory and while there he ran into JOHN LINDSAY and JIM DENIG. JOHN PROOS is also in Indy where he is interning at St. Vincent's Hospital. SID BAKER is attending Butler U. in Indianapolis at night working toward his 
M.B.A. degree. Sid is recruiting high school students for ND and is the father of a potential student, a daughter, Susan. 
PAT CASHILL is in Las Vegas where he is working for the Department of Justice as an Assistant US Attorney. In October, 1970 Pat was married to a lovely iindergrad he met while obtaining his J.D. degree from the U. of Colorado. MIKE DON­AHUE graduated with Pat from Colorado Law School and Mike is with the Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington. Pat (ells us that JOHN PHILLIPS has received his J.D. from Berkeley and is working in Los Angeles. 
HUGH O'BRIEN is with Leo Burnett Advertising Agency in Chicago after serving with Uncle Sam in Vietnam where he was awarded the Bronze Star. Hugh got his 
M.B.A. from the University of Chicago in 1968. GARY HEDIGER is also in Chicago where he is working with Baird & Warner Real Estate Co. Gary just finished a 3-year stretch in the Navy and he is also the proud father of a girl, Catherine. JOHN HOULIHAN is the father of a son, Brian, and is working with SCM Corp. on their corporate industrial design staff in Syracuse, 

N.Y. BOB KENNEDY is a member of the Illinois Bar after his graduation from Illinois Law School. Bob served as legal counsel to the executive committee in the recent Illinois Constitutional Convention and is currently acting as a legislative intern in a program sponsored by the U. of Illinois for training future legislators. 
I was deeply grieved to learn of the death of our classmate, ALEX CARLO. I ask you all to remember him in your thoughts and prayers and to also remember my mother-in-law and father-in-law who both died of heart attacks within three months of each other. The ND Community meant a great deal to them as is evidenced by the fact that they had a son go through under­graduate and law school there and a daughter who attended St. Mary's. Please keep them in mind. 
Keep those cards and letters rolling in and especially those class dues checks. At this writing only 67 of us (out of more than 1,100) have responded positively. Send your S5 checks to Class of "66 Treasury c/o Tom Sullivan, Development Office, ND. 
Richard H. Angelotti 4260 Clausen Western Springs, 111. 60058 
•66L CONGRATULATE DEAN 
Julie and TOM KENNEY were blessed with a baby boy named Thomas James Kenney, III, bom on Feb. 27. Everyone is doing fine. I received the formal an­nouncement of DENNIS DEE's marriage to Dana Regan in Buffalo on May 1. Best wishes to each of them. JIM VIRGIN'S new address is 62 Pine Valley, Moultrie, Ga. 31768. JOHN GOTTLICK's new ad­dress is 6010 Four Lakes Avenue, Lisle, 
111. 60532. JOHN HAUGH has visited Washington several times in connection with an appeal. He is arguing in our local 
U.S. Circuit Court. I was pleased to move John's admission to our bar. I am sure each member of our class joins me in conveying our congratulations and best wishes to TOM SHAFFER on his selection as dean, and I know he can count on the assistance of everyone in the class in carrying out his new responsibilities. 
Frank Gregory 5018 Woodland Way Annandale, Va. 22003 
'67 REUNION? NEXT JUNE 
June always reminds me of graduations, which in turn brings up the subject of reunions. For our class a year from this June will be the time of the traditional five-year reunion. Hopefully lots of you guys will be making plans to be a part of the reunion festivities. A year from now seems a long way off; but realizing how the previous four years have flown by, an early invitation to make plans appears to be in order. Think reunion for June 1972. 
Speaking of reunions, DENIS McCUS-KER informs me that a January 1972 reunion in Miami, Fla. is being planned for himself, BOB ANSON, ANTON FINELLI, CARL MAGEL, JAMIE Mc-KENNA, DAN MURRAY, DAN OLSON, BILL STASZAK and TOM SULLIVAN. I think Denis is hinting that the fortunes of football will carry ND into the Orange Bowl. Denis also brings us up to date on the happenings of those involved in the New Year plans. 
Bob Anson is back from Vietnam and still working for Time as a correspondent in New York City. (As a matter of fact, he was closely involved with compiling the feature article on Joe Frazier and Muhammed Ali around the time of the big fight.) Bob and Diane now have two little Ansons. Anton Finelli has re­cently moved to Boston from New York and is working for the Planning Office for Urban Affairs. Cart Magel and his wife are residing in South Bend, where Carl is teaching high school. Jamie McKenna is stationed in Washington, D.C. with the Army. At last report, he and his wife were living in Arlington, Va. Dan Murray graduated from Harvard Law School last June and is working for the law firm of Jenner and Block in Chicago. 
After completing graduate work at Michigan State Business School, Dan Olson finds himself employed with TWA; and he and his wife reside in New York City. While at Michigan State Dan was a classmate of JIM McGUIRK. Bill Staszak will graduate from the Harvard Law School this June which will represent the completion of a joint program in the law school and the Kennedy School of Government. In the Army is Tom Sullivan who, as Denis points out, was sent to Vietnam just in time to miss Christmas. Tom's wife Julie is living in Sherman Oaks, Calif. Harvard hasn't seen the last of this group because Denis is back at the law school after two years of teaching high school in Corpus Christi and Houston, Texas. Good luck with the planned reunion in Miami! 
We also have some news from the class' medicine men. WALTER KECKICH dropped me a line from Indianapolis, where he has just completed four years of medical school at Indiana and will meet his residency requirement in psychiatry at Hartford, Connecticut's Institute of the Living. Med school may have been de­manding but not so much so to keep Walt from marrying the former Mary Jean Hopping (I.U. '65) last August. Walter also reports that there are two other '67 grads in the I.U. Medical School graduating class, PAT O'DEA and TOM STAFFORD. Of the two fellow grads, WALT only knows that PAT will be going to Hartford Hospital also in Hartford, Conn. 
Other news shorts include: DANIEL J. BEHLES has received a J. D. degree last year at the U. of New Mexico; FRANK GARTLAND is now with Eli Lilly and Co. in the Boston district. He had been a pharmaceutical salesman with Atlas Chemical Industries. Frank and his wife Paula are the parents of a son Peter, almost 3, and a daughter Heather Elizabeth, five months. RICHARD PEPLINSKI Jr. informs me that he has been combim'ng a full-time job at American Oil Company with a part-time teaching assignment. He works with engineering staff of American and is studying for a M.B.A. at the University of Chicago. The teaching as­signment last year had him traveling between the U. of Toledo and Purdue teaching a course in process design fimda­mentals. We received a phone call in April from DREW DALY while he was working on an assignment from Columbia's Grad­uate Business SchooL Seems that the project was at New York Bell and Drew took advantage of the situation to place a call to us. He will graduate with an M.B.A. this month and plans to tour Europe during the summer. 
Our classmates in the armed service have continued to report in. Lt. THOMAS E. NISSEN has received the Bronze Star in' Vietnam while serving as commanding officer of Engineer detachments of the 
U.S. Army depot at Long Binh. Capt LeROY K. GUSTKE, JR. has received the Silver Star for valiant efforts during the defense of an allied outpost near BuPrang, Vietnam, where LeROY evacuated an injured fellow pilot amid exploding munitions. Having graduated from the Air University's Squadron Officer School, Capt. PHILIP J. WILLIAMS has been assigned to Kelly AFB, Texas. Lt JOHN L. ADAMS a C-130 Hercules Cargo-troop carrier pilot, has received the Air Medal for air action in S.E. Asia. As an information officer, Capt. ROBERT M. ZICKES was decorated for meritorious service as chief of the information branch, 3636th Combat Crew Training Group at Fairchild AFB, Washington. Also, BOB has received the USAF Commendation Medal at Kinpo AB, Republic of Korea. JAMES M. KEELER, JR. was promoted to Army 1st Lt. while serving with 233d Transpor­tation Company a Long Binh, Vietnam. Capt. DARBY KELLY is an EC-47 pflot at Phu Cat AB, Vietnam and as a member of the 460th Tactical Reconnaissance Wing, has earned the Presidential Unit Citation (which is the third time for him). Iceland has been the recent home of Lt. PATRICK C. YURASEK since PAT is a member of the Aerospace Defense 
Command organization in Iceland which has the task of patrolling the North Atlantic. 
The summer months are now upon us, and I would like to be able to report the many adventures which the season brings, so don't forget to drop me a note to keep your classmates informed. 
John A. Buttler 4023 Elaine Place S. Columbus, Ohio 43227 
'68 'RAIDERS' AMONG US 
DENNY O'DEA, U. of Michigan Law School, informs us that we have some of Ralph Nader's "Raiders" among our class­mates. PAUL NOVAK, JEFF KEYES, and ED KICKHAM, aU Michigan Law 
•students, participated in Nader's General Motors Improvement Project Jeff also 
.won the Law School's moot court com­petition before Justice Potter Stewart and Judge Sterry Waterman. Denny writes that his wife, the former Miss Kathleen O'LaughUn SMC '68, our class vice-president, JOHN O'CONNOR, and he are all on the board of editors of the Michigan Law Review. 
And now some news from the Aliunni Office. Sec. L t JIM ROWAN has been assigned to Otis AFB in a unit of the Aerospace Defense Command following 
his graduation from pilot training at Vance 
AFB, Okla. PETE KOYAK has been 
named general manager of the Hoosier 
House Advertising Agency, Middlebury, 
Ind. Pete, who was formerly on the 
staff of the Elkhart Truth, resides with his 
wife and son in Hkhart. JOHN BURK­
HART has completed the infantry officer 
basic course at FL Benning. Congratulations 
to ART TUTELA on his engagement to 
Miss Cathy Lee Gaddis on Valentine's 
Day. An August wedding is planned. JOHN 
FOVVLER III informs us that he has 
graduated from the University of Louisville 
Law School and having passed the Kentucky 
Bar Exam is associated with the firm of 
Flower, Brown, Cato, and Schmidt. . Let's keep those letters coming. 
Leonard J. Pellecchia 
1300 Rock Ave. L-5 
N. Plainfield, NJ. 07060 
'68L SPIES USED 

By using my vast spy system, 1 have now been able to find out the names of the WARDS' and SECKINGERS' babies. It is Adam Michael for TOM and Carol Ward, and Paul for JIM and Ann Seckinger. As reported last time, Tom will be joining the faculty of the U. of South Carolina Law School, and he and Carol will be moving to Columbia. Before heading to school, Tom will be making a trip to Madison, Wis. for six weeks where he hopefully will be able to get together with JOHN and Sue SCRIP?. Jim and Ann (and John and Paul) continue to enjoy life in Denver. Jim is still working in Legal Aid there and has become involved in ecology law. He and some of his clients are coming to grips with a rendering plant in their area. After getting a few more years of experience, it is Jim's desire to head back to the ivy-covered walls to leach. Trying to pretend that they aren't getUng any older, he, RICH HENNESSEY and TERRY KELLY are on two basketball teams. They place twice a week and sit around in pain for the other five days. Terry Kelly is still very deeply involved in welfare law. He and Alice recently returned from a meeting in Las Vegas. (Las Vegas sounds like a rather strange place for a welfare meeting, but what can you do?) Theresa Ann Hennessey was born on Dec. 14, 1970. Congratulations to Rich and Beth. 
Moving from the West to the Midwest, John and Sue Scripp are expecting their third child in the fall. (I've already re­ceived an inquiry from the Family Planning Institute.) Stephen is walking now and fighting (according to John)—he obviously inherited his father's temper. John and Sue made it back to ND for the NCAA Regionals and there met MIKE WILLIAM­SON and his wife, Nita, who are expecting their first child this summer or fall. Mike is thoroughly enjoying his work with the firm in Chicago. 
The news from the East is that PETE and Rosemary KING arc buying a home in Seaford, LI. NVhen I spoke with Pete, none other than the man with the famous handshake, LANDERS P. BONENBER­GER, was visiting them. Lanny is now practicing law with a two-man firm down home in West Virginia. Always thinking ahead, he plans to work for Jay Rockefeller in '72. If I were Jay, I would begin to worry a bit—^Lanny's reputation for backing winners has not gone untarnished. I^nny informed me that he just made the brilliant move of buying 1,000 shares of Rolls Royce stock. 
That's about it for now. Please note the change of address below and drop me a line, even a short one, if you get the chance. 
Dennis C. Thelen Lieutenant, JAGC, USNR Service Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet Norfolk, Va. 23511 
'69 ERNIE'S EPIC 

ERNIE GARGARO has resurrected and responded with quite an epic for our class column. Ernie's state of mind as he wrote the letter was evident to the reader. I only hope nothing was lost in the transla­tion of hieroglyphics to some sort of English. 
Ernie begins his story early last summer when MIKE "The Buzzer" BUSBY of basketball manager fame and former winner of the "Golden Corn Cob" award in his hometown of Watseka, III., stopped in Detroit for a rest stop while traveling. With the assistance of FRED "FriU" GAST, JON TOCHS, GERRY TEAGAN and an overstocked wine caller all crashed with visions of the Dome dancing in their heads. It was also rumored the "D&D" was manifested. A lasting partnership was ofiicially formed between Fritz and Ernie commonly known as the "Odd Couple" or "Party Inc." They proceeded to Chicago to the home of the infamous "SNAKE" to initiate the first annual July 4th weekend blast. Those present included CHARLIE (Hose) BEAUREGARD, AI (Job) ROG­ERS, RICK (Raunch) REDMOND, MIKE (Mad Dog) BRENNAN, and DENNIS (Big D) KILANY who also has the notoriety of rooming with the Snake. It was said here that a mysterious man by the name of Nick was recognized by a Barat lovely. 
The next weekend was Busby's wedding at Champaign, 111. Sharie Bury was welcomed into the family by Teagan, KEVIN REARDON, DAN (Mound) GAUMOND and of course Ernie. TOM TOBIN and JIM GOLOMB were unable to attend as' they were paying their dues to Uncle Sam. By the way, if anyone is interested in buying a S3 million jet lighter in Washington, D.C. give Golomb a call. 
The first annual Labor Day party, also at Snake's home turned into a going away party for that mad Italian from Dallas, MIKE (Tex) SATARINO. Tex flew in spitting fire and brimstone, shouting "I got no fight with them Viet Cong!" The party included Teagan, Tochs, Kilany, Brennan, Redmond, Beauregard and his wife Colleen, TOM (Sweets) BREITEN­BACH from Cincinnati, PETE McINER-NEY from his VISTA headquarters in Wisconsin, PAUL (Dry) JOHNSON from Connecticut with his bride-to-be Jayne Kir­choff, MIKE (Jet) CERRE and "Job" ROGERS. Here it was rumored that the "white streaks" made an initial and very successful performance. Say Ernie, what did you do about the screen door you disengaged from its hinges? Satarino flew up to Grand Rapids the next weekend for his pre-army finale. Tex spent the whole time claiming he knew Phyllis George—^Miss America who was entered as Miss Texas— 
a somewhat dubious claim but believable by the end of the night. 
The football weekends produced the usual contingent of acquaintances along with JOHN GARVIE and his beautiful wife Katie who came in from Iowa. Thanksgiving provided the wedding of Paul Johnson and Jayne Kirchoff in Indianapolis. Among the pleasant surprises was the location of our duly elected class secretary BOB (Jaw) ROGERS. Bob is teaching crew at George Washington U. and generally keeping his travels confined to an area enclosed by Mexico, Los Angeles, Winnipeg, and New York. With his rather liberal appearance, Bob was the hit of the wedding as he told a somewhat infuriated hard hat he was on his side. "Dry" was married in glory as he and Jayne spent an extended honeymoon touring the Ba­hamas. They are now residing in Branford, Conn. 
New Year's Eve at the Snake's (where 
else) was the next festivity featuring the 
boys in blue—EBBY MORAN who 
returned from the Marine Reserves and 
JIM (Red Fox) LYONS on leave from 
the Navy. The "Odd Couple" made it 
back to ND to see the Irish play Minnesota 
in the A.C.C. They were fortunate enough 
to purchase the last six copies of the 
South Bend Tribune with the headline, 
"Irish Hook Them Horns." 
Ernie himself relayed the biggest surprise of all. No longer can we refer to him as "Grease." Yes, the dry look is in and from now on it's "Un-grease." Also somewhere in his schedule last fall, Ernie managed to squeeze in the CPA exam and pass it in entirety. On various other occasions, "Un-grease" has run into MIKE CHALIFOUX at the Faculty Club. By the way Mike he still has that dollar you tore in half. TIM SCHLINDWEIN his wife Jill and young Holly are fine as "nm is working at the Harris Bank in Chicago while getting his M.B.A. at the U. of Chicago. PAT CALLAN, working for Ernst & Ernst, has been scheduled on clients in the South Bend area. Believe me, Ernie, we're looking forward to those second annual July 4th, Labor Day and 
New Year's Eve parties. Thanks for writing only the next time sober up first. 
PAUL GODBOUT reports he avoided the draft, received his M.B.A. from OSU, and he and his wife Nancy are the proud parents of Aimee, bom last Thanksgiving Day. Paul is currently assistant general manager with Outdoor Power Products (Boise Cascade) in Springfield, Ohio. DAN KEARNEY'S father informs us that Dan, his wife Joan and Dan Jr. are stationed at Frankfurt, Germany with the Combat Engineers. After their brief travel through Berlin, Salzburg and Vienna, Dan was scheduled to go to Nam. Lt. (J. G.) JIM MILLER writes that he and his wife, the former Colleen Crane of Kansas City are stationed in Sasebo, Japan where Jim serves as Admiral P. P. Cole's personal aide. Jim was recently decorated with the Navy Achievement Medal for out­standing performance while aboard the USS Si. Paul in the war zone. At the time of the letter Jim and Colleen were planning a vacation in Hong Kong. 
DON WEGROCKI is studying for an 
M.B.A. at Loyola of Baltimore. He is also working part-time on the controller's staff of Ringling Bros. Circus. (Elephants on the stationery of a Chem. E. major really had me puzzled.) Don anticipates his ROTO active duty delay should terminate this summer. The news is PAT McDERMOTT was married to Karen Lee Ketterer on May 15 in Johnstown, Pa. DICK KRANZ notes that he attended the wedding of TOM KRICK and the former Mary Gonderinger in O'Neill, Nebraska which according to the souvenier mugs is the "Irish Capital of Nebraska." PETE NARDI writes he's at the U. of Penn. studying for a Ph.D. in sociology of education. Pete's former roommate BOB BONGIOVI and his wife Betty Sejda of SMC are in San Bernardino with their son Robbie. Bob with his M.S. from MIT in aerospace engineering is stationed at Norton AFB. Also, TOM McKAY, former WSND DJ, is production manager at WKBW in Buffalo, N.Y. 

Eileen Groves, wife of JIM GROVES wrote to tell us that they were married last August. Although they were both law students at ND, Jim is now the sole student as he would do anything including marriage to set the women out of ND. ROTC helped Jim avoid the draft. TONY Mc-LEOD is doing well in his second year of law at the U. of Virginia and has been a frequent visitor at the Gro%'es' home. MIKE GREENE and his wife Adrienne are still at ND as Mike finishes up on his M.B.A. TOM BENSON who has been a lieutenant in the Army and recently stationed at Fort Sheridan, 111., should be released from the service this month. Tom will then begin working on his 
M.B.A. from Loyola of Chicago. Ll. WAYNE KOPALA writes that in April he graduated from the Air Force Intel­ligence School at Lowry AFB, Colo. His next assignment will be as an intelligence officer at Osan Air Base, Korea. BOB McCARTER was recently named to head the Buffalo office of the Federal Trade Commission as the receiver of consumer complaints. His jurisdiction includes the greater part of Western New York State. Without any definite plans for the future, TOM DICKMANN is taking a rest after his Naval stint since graduation. From a mere OCS candidate, Tom worked up to executive officer of a small Naval base just outside of Hue. In Nam, Tom ran across WAYNE FORESMAN in Da Nang working with the Military Sealift Com­mand. Wayne's wife, Cindy, is patiently waiting for him back in Delaware. The last Tom heard was that JAN DEC was going for an M.B.A. at Dartmouth, DAVE MESSMER was with Ford in Dearborn, and REMI GOMILA was studying at an Aeronautical Institute in Daytona Beach, Fla. KEVIN DOYLE phoned me recently and informed us on several class members. Kevin is in math at the U. of Syracuse. With him is MIKE KAROWSKI, who just finished a year in the Peace Corps. MIKE HACKER is at the U. of Iowa in Psychology. DICK LAVLEY is at the U. of Michigan with JOHN DRIGGS. BRIAN TULLY SCHMIDLIN is teaching a TV course in a grade school in Wisconsin. 
JOE CARROLL is studying math at Harvard. Three fellows were fortunate enough to receive alternate service: HAL SMITH at St. Joe's in South Bend, BILL MACKE serving in Washington D.C. and STEVE JOHN in Williamsburg, Va. 
JOHN DAVID is doing secretarial work as a S/4 in Honolulu. TOM COMERFORD is selling textbooks in Boston. ROSS SIMPSON is at Georgetown Med. School, BILL SCHWEITZER should have finished his math comps at UCLA and CARLOS CARRIEDO is studying law at Berkeley. 
JIM JULIAN, JIM BENNETT and myself were elected to offices in the Buffalo Alumni Club. Maybe this esprit de youth will prove to be a good way to communicate the ND of today and possibly activate a latent alumni group. Well another lengthy column with plenty of good news. Thanks fellows, you're doing a great job! PEACE. 
Mike Neumeister 
64 West Winspear Ave. 
Buffalo N.Y. 14214 

'69L BASKETBALL IN MEKONG 
Just one day too late for publishing in the last issue I received a letter from Patty (Mrs. JOHN) RITTINGER. John, now an Army captain, is an adjutant to an advisory team in the Mekong Delta. When he arrived in September of 1970 he noticed that his compound lacked only one thing, a basketball court, which he had constructed within one month. John will be discharged in September of this year and he plans to join a firm in Binghamton, 
N.Y. Patty has kept in touch with PAUL MULLEN and with Marie and JIM STRAUB. Both Paul and Jim are presently in Vietnam, Paul supposedly as a postal officer. 
I've had several opportunities to speak with MATT DWYER recently, and I was on one occasion able to speak with TONY SIEMER. Matt called from Georgia while involved in certain long-distance litigation on behalf of a Marine corporal. Tony is Effingham's leading attorney, and it appears that he will remain so for some time. 
Fellow '69ers, reflect if you will on the possibility of a fall reunion over one of the home game weekends. A possibility would be the Michigan State game on Oct. 2. Drop me a line indicating the possibility of your getting back to S.B. for any game, and I will prepare and mail out a circular indicating the most popular choice. 
Scott Atwell 
1050 Lafayette No. 501 
Denver, Colo. 80218 
'69MBA FIRST IN TWO YEARJ 
The first thing I want to report to all 
the New York Met fans is that as of 
this writing the Cardinals are in first place 
in the National League East Division. 
I realize that it's a bit early, but one 
must take advantage of opportunities as 
he finds them. 
Speaking of Met fans, KEN SAMARA recently stopped in St. Louis long enough to change planes and called us from the airport. Ken was on his way to Phoenix where he was going to warm up for an upcoming vacation in Australia. Ah, the life of the affluent bachelor! Ken reported that things were going well with his TWA activities and that his division's operations are expanding in spite of the current airiine problems. The JOHN KNITTEL family is in the process of buying a home to accommodate their own expansion program. John hopes to be in the new home in Motawon Township, NJ. by July 1. The Knittels also report an Easter trip to Rochester to visit relatives. Before leaving the subject of new houses, the new address of the PETER SMlTHs 
is 6 Huron Rd., Acton, Mass., 01720. 
An address which we report with con­
siderably less pleasure is that of DOUG 
WALL, who wrote from Chu Lai, Vietnam. 
Doug's mailing address is Lt. D.W. Wall, 
158-38-6555 62nd Signal Co., APO S.F. 
96325. Lt Wall is a property officer for 
two signal companies and is "signed for 
equipment which had been missing since 
Ho Chi Minh was a teenager." Doug's 
report of his view of the war is as 
discouraging and disheartening as other 
accounts of that senseless, interminable 
conflict. We wish the best to Doug and 
sincerely hope that the war is ended 
immediately not only for American 
servicemen but also for the millions of 
Southeast Asians affected by it. 
It seems impossible that two full years could have passed since that first edition of Notre Dame MBA's set forth on the business world. It might be an appropriate time for you to sit down and write us a brief note about what you've done and what has happened to you in those two years. I'm sure many class members would be interested in reports from some of our less communicative classmates. I know that 1 would appreciate a note from WILL McGUIRE explaining what happened to the Boston Bruins. 
Joe Cavato 
7122 Vernon 
University City, Mo. 63130 


'70 SOME DEVELOPMENTS 
Realizing that the rest of the Class of 
1970 must bemoan the lack of news as 
much as I do, I shall pass on some 
of the developments I have heard in 
the last year. 
I'm a freshman at Washington U. Medi­cal School in St. Louis along with FRED NACHTWEY and TERRY FUL­LER. We'll be here until 1974, so visitors are welcome. Other med school Irish who come to mind are the recently married BOB VADNAL at Colorado, AL LAREAU at Indiana, TONY McDON-ALD at U. of California, JOHN HENNESSEY at Virginia, BOB CABAJ at Harvard and BILL MALONEY at St. Louis. 
MIKE MORRISSEY and KELLY KNAUER are teaching at Christ the King High School in Brooklyn. Kelly is Europe-bound this summer, while Mike returns to Wisconsin where JIM MURPHY is studying biochemistry. Other teachers include BILL SHEEHAN in Clarksdale, Miss., STEVE KISH in Nova Scotia and BILL SORRELL who plans a summer wed­ding to Ruth Dennis (SMC '70) in Vermont Bill intends to study law in the Ivy League at Cornell or Harvard next fall. 
The Peace Corps has claimed several of our finest including MIKE DUFFY for Nepal, JOHN BRUGGER in Morocco and GREG SULLIVAN in Ghana. Greg, at last word, was arranging a nutrition clinic in the northwest section. 
BOB CAMPBELL is doing some public relaUons for Mt St. Mary's College in Maryland and living with JACK MORAN who is teaching at his old high school in Hagerstown. TONY ALHOLM is studying law in the ND London program this year. Apparently the pace suits him for he was starting forward on the U. of London basketball team. Hell be back next year to join RON BASSO and £D 
SMITH in the Law School at ND. I try to avoid military thoughts, but they haunt me in the person of Private MICHAEL J. O'BRIEN who is stationed at Ft. Leonard Wood and visits St. Louis every weekend. Mike shivered when he first saw our cadavers but now feels quite comfortable, he says. Soon he must be off to San Antonio to learn about computers. He reports that DON SIMANTZ is prospering in Chicago. O'MALLEY SMITH is studying law at Rutgers and PAUL RUTHERFORD is finishing his fifth year at ND. 
LARRY KIRKHAM is working in Detroit for Lybrand, Ross as part of his accounting training with Northeastern U. While in Boston he was living with KEVIN MYLES (who is studying law at Suffolk) DENNY CLARK and PAT DOWALL. 
Some of you Chicagoans may want to visit some of your old cronies, JOHN McGOVERN, MIKE McNlCHOLS, TOM BUCKLEY, ED HOGAN, and TIM QUINN are all "Looped." 
Belated congratulations to JOHN (Gooey) and Jeri MURTAGH on the birth of their first child last year. Gooey is studying law at the U. of Connecticut. Another pros­pective attorney is PAT BARBOLLA, now at the U. of Texas. JIM CROWE is at the 
U. of Missouri Law School in Columbia. 
Until our "official" class secretary, CURT DeCLUE refills his ink pen, I'll be happy to report any further news. 
Don Graham 
Box 919 
4550 Scott Ave. 
St. Louis, Mo. 63110 
ATLANTA 

On April 1, the regular monthly luncheon meeting was held at the Planters Exchange in Underground Atlanta. JAN TABAKA '63, the proprietor of the restaurant, pro­vided the table for the meeting along with a free drink to all those who attended. Among those present for the meeting were BOB MULSHINE '63, FRANK COTTER '64, JIM EICHELBERGER '63, LOUIS T. LONCARIC '57, ED ABRAMS '50, BILL RICH '64, KEVIN SMITH '59 and PAUL LOMBARDl '60. 
On April 23, a UND Night cocktail party was held at the Trust Company of Georgia for the club members and their wives. Approximately 50 people attended the function and heard Father TOM CHAMBERS CSC '56 speak on: "Notre Dame: How Catholic Is It?" 
The ND Family Communion Day was scheduled to be held in May. The activity 
BOSTON—J. Richard Lamerc '49, second from right, received the Man of the Year Award at the UND night dinner of the Boston Club. He is editorial director of special publications for the Boston Herald Traveler Corp., and a veteran columnist on labor and yachting. The presentation was made by Club President William J. Pietriisiak. At left is Thomas F. Kcn­ncaley and at right, Joseph F. Kennealey, brothers who were honored jointly last year. 
was planned by JERRY KIEFER '54. In The club expresses its gratitude to JOHN addition, the Club showed the filmed McCULLOGH '63 and JOSEPH highlights of the 1970 football season and KENNEALEY '39 for serving as directors Cotton Bowl on May 28, 1971. the past three years. Al Fraught '58, 
Bill Stewart '43 and Dave Fay "60 were William M. Rich '64 co-chairmen of events. UND Night was April 19 at the Harp & Bard Restaurant. Representing the Uni­
BOSTON 
versity were: Rev. THOMAS BLANTZ CSC '57— The annual business meeting was held in vice president of Student Affairs, who March and the following were elected at spoke on "Notre Dame, How Catholic is Boston College Downtown Club: President, it" and BRIAN REGAN '61—regional BILL PIETRUSIAK '58; vice president, director of development covering 15 JACK CURTIN '62; treasurer, TOM Northern States and District of Columbia, WELCH '57 and secretary, DAVE FAY who thanked the Club for its support '60. 

during the Summa campain. 

The board of directors includes: JOHN GORMAN '53, DICK WALWOOD '58, 
The co-chairmen of that event, BILL JOE O'NEIL '67, MIKE O'TOOLE '55, 
PIETRUSIAK '58 and JACK CURTIN ART MURPHY '59, JACK KARLE '56, '62, presented the Man of the Year award GEORGE WILLIAMS '62, ED BURKE 
to JACK LAMERE '49. 

'65, JOHN MROZ '70 and JAY CURLEY Everyone had a very enjoyable time being '53. entertained by the Irish Folk Singers. 
ORDER YOUR OFFICIAL NOTRE DAME ALUMNI DECAL 
NAME 
ADDRESS 
CITY STATE ZIP 
Enclosed is $-for decal(s). Enclose S1.00 for each decal and mall to: 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MISSISSIPPI 733 North State Street Jackson, Mississippi 39201 
As noted in the January-February issue of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS, this is the official alumni decal as approved by the alumni board. It is available exclusively from either the Missis­sippi Club or your local organization. Buy several and help an underprivileged Mississippian obtain a quality education at Notre Dame. 
DON COTE '52 and his committee are busy on plans for the annual Golf Outing at Wollaston Country Club on June 17. In the fall the annual Freshman Sendoff Dinner will take place, the time and place will be announced later. The club also con­gratulates ND Professor James Dincolo on being elected to the Boston University Hall of Fame at the Boston U. Varsity Club Dinner on April 30. 
Also if there are members of the Uni­versity living in the area not receiving communications don't hesitate to register with the club. Box 887 Boston, Mass. 02103 
David A. Fay '60 
BUFFALO 
The ND Club of Buffalo held its annual 
elections at a general meeting on March 
25. The new officers are: MARVIN J. LaHOOD, '58 president; PATRICK. RYAN, '67, vice president; JAMES P. JULIAN, '69, secretary; MICHAEL J. NEU­MEISTER, '69, treasurer; and JAMES A. BENNETT '69, financial secretary. Elected to the board of directors for three-year terms were: JOHN ALLEN '56, Jim Bennett, JOSEPH BURNS JR. '56, and WILLIAM J. O'CONNOR '64. 
On April 13, the club celebrated UNO Night at the Packet Inn in Tonawanda. DANIEL BRICK '65 chaired the event attended by 85 alumni, alumni wives and friends of ND. Executive Vice President, Rev. EDMUND P. JOYCE, CSC '37, gave an excellent descriptive analysis of today's ND students, and briefly treated the ND-St. Mary's adventure. Fr. Joyce's inspiring talk was the fitting climax of a successful year, and the last effort under the reign of President Burns. We hope the new president does as well. 
Marvin J. LaHood '58 
CENTRAL CALIFORNIA 
The ND Club of Central California cele­brated UND Night with a dinner at Cedar Lanes in Fresno. Subway alumnus Tom Meehan served as MC. Richard Conklin, director of Information Services at ND, was the guest speaker, explaining many of the changes taking place on the L-iinipns~::i recent years, and fielding a few'questions asked about the new policies. KEVIN HARDY, '68, supplied a few anecdotes from his playing days to an audience that included the new oflicers ANDY PROVOST '50, president; JOHN O'BRIEN M.A. '59, Ph.D. '61, vice-president; DAVE HUDSON '61, secretary; BLAIR LA COUR '68, treasurer, and regulars HAROLD BAIR '29, JIM PAGLIASOTTI '36, Dr. JIM CONNER '41, JOHN O'ROURKE '56, some subway guests, and all the ladies in this liberated era. 
Dave Hudson '61 
CINCINNATI 
More than 200 people were in attendance at the annual St. Patrick's dinner dance which was held March 12, at the Hyde Park Country Club. The dance was a great success, and Mrs. Andrew Barton, Jr., chairman, is to be congratulated along with her excellent committee. 
BALTIMORE—Henry P. Irr was the recipient of the Humanitarian Award presented by the ND Club of Baltimore at its annual dinner dance. Irr is chairman of the executive com­mittee of the Baltimore Savings and Loan Association. Left to right are Very Rev. Joseph A. Sellinger SJ, president of Loyola College, Baltimore, Club President Donald B. Duffy and Mr. and Mrs. Irr. 
LARRY DiNARDO, 1970 football captain, was honored April 2, at the local chapter of the National Football Founda­tion's Fourth Annual Awards Dinner, at the Cincinnati Club. Larry received the 1970 Special Award and a scholarship for post­graduate study. Timothy Reilly of Elder High School, Cincinnati, Ohio, has been awarded the Cincinnati Club's scholarship to attend ND. Congratulations are in order for Tim, and we wish him great success in his four years at ND. 
Plans are under way for the annual golf outing to be held in July at Hyde Park Golf Country Club. This event always brings out ND's greatest duffers. Also, plans are under way for the Annual UND Night. 
Tom Eagen "66 
CLEVELAND 
Our UND Night was held at the Statler Hotel on April 20 with Father JAMES 
T. BURTCHAELL '56, presenting us with the enlightening address of how Catholic Notre Dame really is. We were also fortunate to obtain the M.C. services of PHIL DONAHUE '57 who conducts a very successful TV Talk Show, originating out of Dayton, Ohio. Both men were stellar in their respective dialogue and the 450 attendance went home guffawing at the antics of Donahue and emphatically reflecting at the address of Fr. Burtchaell. It was highly impressive to all our member­ship, our subway friends and particularly to 28 potential freshman high school ap­plicants who have been accepted to the ND or St. Mary's freshman class of the oncoming fall 1971 semester. These high school seniors and their parents were in­vited in an efl'ort to give them a prelude to both our club and the University. They all appeared to be highly impressed. 
We also conducted our two annual Civic Awards ceremonies at the dinner. Gov. John Gilligan '43 won our Distinguished 
Citizenship of the Year Award for his 
profound, personal achievements and 
dedication to his fellow men. Our always 
nostalgic ND Man of the Year Award was 
won by "SARGE" RALEIGH '31, a very 
successful Cleveland businessman and long 
time supporter of our club. 
We brought the ND Glee Club in on 
Feb. 21 and for a joint concert with the 
Notre Dame College Girls' Choral Group at 
the College Auditorium in South Euclid. 
The audience was thoroughly impressed by both groups. Our Treasurer NICK DeVITO '63 took on another added role in coordinating the program with the help of Sister Mary Electa of the College. When the Glee Club came on with the "Rally Sons" number, the entire audience gave them a standing ovation. Mingling with Director Daniel H. Pedtke, business agent Gary Gardner and some of the student singers subsequent to the performance, we con­cluded that Carnegie Hall should be our next stop. Hats off to Chairman DeVito, Sister Mary and to so many of our mem­bers who graciously contributed to the financing of the event. 
On St. Patrick's Day, March 17, we marched down the avenues of Cleveland in the annual St. Patrick's Day Civic Parade. Two St. Mary's girls carried our cherished banner to emulate our coeducational progress and our nationally renowned 20­foot Golden Dome painting was mounted across the street from the reviewing stand with our group culminating the March by dramatically singing the fight song. Through the leadership of FRANK NOVAK '49 who kept us in step all the way, our unit was voted "Most Imaginatively Relaxed" by the parade grand marshal and his com­mittee. Here, congratulations are in order for Chairman DENNIS BUTLER '62 who served us green beer and corned beef and cabbage balls at an informal luncheon in the Cleveland Hotel prior to the parade. 
Here congratulations are in order for our two immediate past presidents of our own club and the Women's Auxiliary, respectively. THOMAS CORRIGAN '57 
CLEVELAND—Ohio's Gov. John Gilligan '4S received ihc Distinguished Citizenship of the Year Award at the Cleveland ND Club's UND dinner. Left to right are Gov. Gilligan, Mrs. Gilligan, Rev. James T. Biirtchaell '56, University provost, who was the speaker, and Club President Patrick J. Cannon '55. 
and Mrs. Joan C. Cannon took over the reins of the affair and both worked doubly hard to navigate it to a successful and meaningful event. We thank Tom and Joan for their dedicated efforts. Our next big event takes place July 9 at Tanglewood Country Club when we swing in the Golf Party with Dubs and Damns. 
Patrick J. Cannon '55 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 

The club held its annual Communion supper on March 14 at Cooke's Tavern in Plainville, Conn. Mass was celebrated in a private room and was followed by refreshments and dinner. There were about 40 alumni, wives, and friends in attendance. Once again we thank JIM CASSIDY '62 who has been chairman of the event for the past four years and whose personal enthusiasm has helped make this event so enjoyable. 
On April 21 UND Night was held at Carbone's Restaurant in Hartford. The selection of MIKE LONG '64 as volunteer chairman proved to be a wise choice. He did an outstanding job of organizing the whole affair. Our speaker was the Rev. THOMAS E. BLANTZ CSC '57 V.P. of Student Affairs. His talk, I am sure, impressed everyone with the caliber of students and the quality of the leadership at ND. The turnout for the dinner was gratifying in that there were so many new faces to be seen, but a bit disappointing in that some familiar faces were missing. A few of the alumni new to the Hartford area with whom I had a chance to talk included FRANK SARR '62, RON WEISKIRCHER '61, MIKE RYAN '63, and PAUL RAY '65. One new body that arrived with an old familiar face was ex-president FRANK 
(Slim) LANE '55 who was not immediately 
recognized in his new silhouette. One last 
thanks to BILL JOLLY '57 who acted as 
our sergcant-at-arms and wouldn't let 
anyone in to the dinner unless they could at 
least hum a few bars of the "Victory 
March." 

President FLOYD RICHARDS '42, BOB MCGOLDRICK '56, and BOB DALTON '49 will journey to South Bend for the annual Alumni Senate meeting. They are looking forward to this opportunity to gain firsthand knowledge of current activities on campus. Future activities of the club include a business meeting at which a report will be made on the Alumni Senate meeting, and plans discussed for the annual club picnic and a possible trip to Miami for the ND-Miami football game. I hope to see a large turnout at the meeting and as many ND families as possible at the picnic. Maybe we can persuade MIKE CARROLL '55 to run it again. 
Although a formal dues letter has not been sent out we have been accepting dues for 1971 at the various meetings. I urge all alumni to send their dues for 1971, only S5, to our treasurer MIKE CARROLL '55 at 14 Parkview Dr., East Hartford, Conn. 06108. One final note to all those alumni in the area who are interested in the club and would like to get on the mailing list. Either give me a call at 289-4893 or send your name and address to me at 1333 Burnside Ave., Apt C-8, East Hartford, Conn. 06108. 
Paul J. Sanner '62 
DAYTON 

Bill McGuire, president of the ND Club of Dayton, has moved to Madison, Wis. All of the dub trustees, officers, and members truly miss Bill, and all wish him the very best of success in his new position as director of planning, at the U. of Wisconsin Hospital. 
Ara Parseghian was in Dayton on May 8, for UND Night. The dinner was attended by some 200 Alumni and friends, and all enjoyed Coach Parseghian's remarks. 
At the UND Night dinner, it was an­
nounced that the Dayton Club received 
the award for the "Class B" Club for last 
year. 
Prior to the dinner, it was announced also that there will be a gala fund-raising program for multiple sclerosis, which will be headed by many nationally known entertainers. The date is June 14, and all alumni are encouraged to plan to attend. Coach Parseghian will be honorary chair­man of this M.S. benefit. 
Jim Ircton '66 


DECATUR 
MIKE JORDAN '68 of the Alumni Office arrived at the eleventh hour with a student panel for the UND Night, chaired by Decatur's newly elected council member, JOHN DUNN '58, LL.B. '61. Student panels have been our big attraction, and Mike Corrigan and Ray Connell were no exception. Their interpretation of capital "C" and small "c" in "Catholic" was one of sacrifice in service to others and at­tendance at Sunday Mass only if they desired to go. A question was asked pertaining to the new theology's interpre­tation of sacrifice and the weekly obligation of attending Mass for our own souls. It raised a barrage of questions which even Mike and Ray found stimulating in the sense that they were still searching for their position in capital "C" and small "c." 
Mr. and Mrs. JACK AMRHEIN '61 from Springfield and the return of ROBERT LIVERGOOD '24 and ROBERT UHL '49, LL.B. '50 to the healthy active list added zip to the meeting. TIM '61 and JIM '66 MONAHAN and their wives once again came from Areola. President PAT NOLAN '63 read an appeal by John Shiel, Jr. in behalf of CILA (Council of International Lay Apostolates), a volunteer student program of social action. And not to let the opportunity slip, DAN CAREY '61 verbally reminded us of dues. 
Steve Graliker '42 


DES MOINES 
The Des Moines alumni of both ND and St. Mary's turned out in grand style at UND Night. Alumni in attendance were TONY CRITELLI '52, JOHN CORTESIO '59, BOB DREY '53, JIM SHAW '22, MARK WONDERLIN '29, ED POSNER '41, DON BOSS '41, JOE \VHALEN '29, LEO TAPSCOTT '70, PAUL KLUDING '39, JOE BISIGNANO, '59, BEN ACRI '64, JIM MUNRO '57, BOB BEH '52, WILL GILL '51, JOE JOYCE '54, JIM COWNIE '66 and their wives. St. Mary's was repre­sented by Miss Betty Nolan, Loral Kirke and husband Bob, and Donna Joyce. Among the parents and guests were the Joe 
Nobels, Maurice Sullivans, Dan Mcllhons, 
Fred Hunters, Larry Donaricos and Mrs. Maxwell. 
The club ho-Sted the ND track team which was participating in the Drake Relays. 

Coach Alex Wilson and his boys did a great 
job in representing the school. 
Rev. CHARLES SHEEDY CSC '33 
handled the main speaking job in an 
excellent talk on ND's Catholicity. Many 
stayed afterwards to visit and compliment 
him. The dinner seemed to be a grand 
success. 
James T. Munro '57 
DETROIT 
At UND Night, held at the Statler-Hilton 
Hotel on April 22, approximately 300 
Notre Dame alumni and friends enjoyed a 
very interesting and informative talk by 
Rev. JAMES T. BURTCHAELL CSC '56, 
provost of the University. MIKE 
MONAHAN '60 chaired this event. 
The club presented its "Man of the Year" award to Anthony G. De Lorenzo, vice president of General Motors in charge of the public relations staff and a member of the advisory board of the ND College of Business Administration. He also served as chairman in the Summa Campaign. The award was presented by ROBERT W. BOGG '57, outgoing president of the club. 
Three days prior to that dinner, the newly elected board of directors chose the following as officers of the club for the forthcoming year: 
ED BRACKEN '35, president; TER­RENCE KEATING '60, first vice president; ART SHANNON '59, second vice president; 
KALAMAZOO—Kalamazoo ND Club President Paid Coash '56, at left, presents the Man of the Year Award to Arthur J. Midholland Jr. '38, a Kalamazoo advertising executive. 
GARY DILLON '65, secretary and TERRY DESMOND '63, treasurer. 
In February the club had one of the most successful retreats that it has held in several years, with 64 in attendance at Manresa Retreat House. Thanks to DAN 
KELLY '57 for organizing this weekend. 
Plans are in progress now for the golf 
outing in July to be held at the Detroit 
Golf Club. 
Arthur W. Shannon '59 
ERIE 
UND Night was held in Erie, Pa. on April 
26. Our campus representative for this affair was Rev. JAMES L. SHILTS, CSC '49. Everyone enjoyed very much Father's talk and the chance to visit with him. 
For the second consecutive year, the Erie Club honored the outstanding junior in the area. The choice was a very difficult one but we managed to decide on John T. Matcham, a student at Iroquois High School. John ranked in the top 10 of his class and has been very active in all phases of high school life. Also honored was the "Notre Dame Man of the Year," JOHN J. McCORMICK, Jr. '53. John has been the most active of all ND alumni for as long as I can remember. He has always been most interested in and given much of his time to the University, its students and its alumni. He and his wife, Jeanne Maiie and their children, John, Owen, Jerry, Pat, Matt, Peter, Mary, Therese and Jeanne Marie are true examples of a fine ND family, JOE SPAK '66 who was chairman for this affair did a tremendous job as did DON C. BUSECK '50, who handled the toastmaster duties. Also recognized were the outstand­ing football players in the Erie area. The grade school player of the year was Robert Lee, from St. John's School, the winners of the Grade School league. The high school award for the outstanding football player went to Mike Bartozek from McDowell 
H.S. Mike was named all-state for both on the offensive and defensive first teams as well as a punter on this squad. 
Leo J. Brugger, Jr. '61 
DETROIT—Robert W. Bogg '57, at right, outgoing president of the ND Club of Detroit FORT WAYNE presents the Man of the Year award to Anthony G. De Lorenzo, vice president of General Motors in charge of the public relations staff and a member of the advisory board of the The ND Club of Fort Wayne held its University's College of Business Administration. annual UND Night on April 19 with 110 
GREEN BAY-FOX VALLEY—Graham A. Warner '61 was chairman for the Green Bay-Fox Valley ND Club's UND Night dinner and Timothy /. Hushes '61, ALUMNUS managing editor, was the speaker. Left to right ares Seated, William F. Kenvin '40 and Patrick F. Coughlin '51, and standing, Joseph A. Neufeld '44, Hughes and Werner. 
alumni, wives, and guests irealed to dinner at the Summit Club. NORBERT J. SCHENKEL "34, received the "Man of the Year" award from Steve Steckbeck '54, last year's "Man of the Year," and PHIL CLEMENS '5.^, club president. In addition, Todd W. Habegger, a student at Northside 
H.S. received the "Junior of the Year" award. 
Following the awards. Bob Weaver, an ND junior majoring in government and international affairs, along with PHILIP J. FACCEND A '51, vice president and gen­eral counsel of ND, spoke on "Notre Dame: How Catholic Is It?". At the conclusion of their presentations they fielded a wide range of diverse questions concerning the University today. 
Arthur H. Witucki '57 
GREEN BAY-FOX VALLEY 

UND Night was held at Bulte Des Moris Golf Club in Appleton on April 20. TIMOTHY HUGHES '61, managing editor of the ALUMNUS and "nmothy Feeley, an ND junior were the speakers. A lively and stimulating discussion followed their talks with BILL WOODWARD '54, VINCE STE. MARIE '51, DICK STACK '48, BOB SCHAEFER '53 and BILL KERWIN '40 leading the discussion. Another feature of the evening was the distribution of our first club alumni directory. TOM BROGAN '48 dub president was responsible for the development of the directory and received and appreciative round of applause from the membership. 
Also in attendance were CLYDE BUNKER 19, WALLY CHRISTMAN '44, NICK CONLON '57, Dr. MIKE CROSS '59, Dr. FRANCIS DEGA '56, RAY EBLI '42, CARL FARAH '54, JOE FIEWEGER '44, Dr. KEN FORBES '44, PETE GENIESSE '60, Dr. JOHN GUTHRIE '45, GEORGE KERWIN "70, FRED LINDNER '64, PAT MARTIN '48, RANDY MELZER '68, JOE NEUFELD '44, RAY O'CONNOR '51, JERRY POKEL '57, Dr. EUGENE SCHRANG '53, JIM SIDDELL '36, and PAT COUGHLIN '51. Next club event is the Annual ND Golf Tournament to be held June 14 at Oneida Golf & Riding Club in Green Bay. 
Spike Werner '61 
HAWAII 

A highly successful UND Night was held April 24 at the Pacific Club in Honolulu. A capacity audience heard the guest of honor. Rev. THEODORE M. HESBURGH CSC '38, speak about the intricate problems that are being faced today by American colleges and universities. Fr. Hesburgh defended the students by saying that the "horrible publicity" which they receive from the news media is the result of only one or two per cent of the student population. He pointed to the many ND students who work summers in the undeveloped countries of South America and in Community Action Projects in the South Bend area. 
A question and answer period followed the President's speech and several alumni and guests participated in the enlightening and at times humorous discussions. Many questions concerned the various policy changes that have recently taken place at ND and some suggestions were made toward a better informed alumni with regard to these changes. Other noteworthy guests attending the dinner included Fr. Hesburgh's sister, Mrs. Betty O'Neil, Rev. JOHN E. WALSH CSC '45, Mrs. Qare Boothe Luce and the mayor of Honolulu, Frank Fasi. 
The newly elected officers are: WALTER KABRAL '55, re-elected president; DENNIS KEATING '62, vice president; JAMES RAKERS '65, secretary, and KENNETH KWAK '62, re-elected treasurer. 
We hope that the great success of UND night in Hawaii will inspire more members to participate in future activities. 
Jim Rakers '65 
INDIANAPOLIS 
UND Night was held in Indianapolis April 19. CHARLES WAGNER, '54 was the chairman and did an excellent job. REV. JAMES T. BURTCHAELL '56 was the guest speaker. He gave an excellent talk regarding the overall situation at the University. 
New officers for 1971-72 were announced. They are: FRANCIS B. QUINN, '42, pres­ident; DR. JOSEPH GORMLEY '49, president-elect; ED FILLENWARTH '61, vice president; JACK MORIARITY '63, secretary; DICK OWENS '49, treasurer and two directors JOE DESAUTELS '53, and JOHN SCHMITT '63. 
The announcement of RICHARD OWENS as ND Man of the Year was greeted with a great deal of enthusiasm by all those present The recipients of the ND scholarships were announced. One honorary scholarship was given and then two other high school seniors shared jointly the $1,500 annual scholarship. The Scholarship Fund Raising Dance was held January ISth. Chairman GENE WITCHCER and his committee succeeded in raising $1,100. 
BILL MCGOWAN '57 was elected to the National Alumni Board at the Uni­versity. Congratulations to Bill for achieving this goal. 
Dr. James A. Crossin, '60 
KENTUCKY 
The ND Club of Kentucky proudly presented its version of the 48th annual UND Night April 20, at Louisville's new Ramada Inn. I am proud to announce this was our most successful club function in many, many years. The attendance was approximately 200 persons. We wish to extend our sincere appreciation to the following official sponsors: Boland-Malony Lumber Co.; Dr. Norvin L. Casper; Hubbuch of Kentucky; Louis J. Hollen­bach Jr.; Louisville Paving Inc.; George Moser Leather Co.; O'Connor and Raque Co.; Reisert Insurance and Real Estate; Schmitt Furniture Co.; Sherman Brothers Mai Supply, Inc.; Walter Wagner, Jr. Co., Realtors. Thanks to these members who assured the club successfid participation in UND night. We wish to thank Lee Corso, coach of the U. of Louisville football team, for the best MC job we've ever had. In fact judging by the response he got if Lee ever quits football he would be very successful as a nightclub entertainer. GERRY BOLAND '63 presented the Man of the Year Award to Cornelius E. Hubbuch, whose efforts on behalf of ND and the Kentucky Club of ND have been outstanding. Congratulations Corny, and please keep up the good work. Our scholarship for next year was awarded to 
Joe McCormick from St. Xavier H.S. Good luck at ND next year, Joe'. We would also like to thank our speaker, Rev. 

TOM CHAMBERS '56, for a very en­lightening talk. Father brought students Carl Ellison with date Linda Sims and Brian Zevnick with date Mary Jean Englert with him, and we would like to thank them for the fine discussion period after the dinner. I think these fellows, along with TOM SULLIVAN '66, regional director of development, opened our eyes concerning operations and life at the University. 
Lastly Congrats go to our fine program committee of RUSS RAQUE '60 and DON MOSER '56 (chairmen), and assistants Mrs. William Sherman, Mrs. James L. Coorssen and Mrs. Richard Boland for an outstanding job. Good luck to the 1972 committee of JOHN MANIX '55 and John Geherity. 
Concluding UND night, BILL SHER­
MAN '58 presented julep cups to Fr. 
Chambers, Lee Corso, and Gerry Boland 
and a fifth of Fighting Irish whisky to 
Tom Sullivan. 
Aug. 3 will be the annual outing, and this 
year Assistant Coach Tom Pagna and 
Tom Sullivan, from the University, along 
with BILL McGOWAN '57 our regional 
representative of Alumni clubs will attend. 
Reserve this date NOW! 
Mike Casper '64 
LANSING 
The largest turnout in recent years marked 
the Lansing club's observance of UND 
night. Joined by a contingent of members 
and wives from the Flint club, the group 
heard an'excellent keynote presentation by 
MIKE JORDAN '68, alumni office 
representative, and senior student Joe White. 
Club president FRANK SIERAWSKI '48 spoke on the club's progress and plans, and VP PETE HASBROOK '60 recounted his experiences on campus at the April meeting of the Alumni Senate. Toastmaster HASBROOK also extended the club's thanks to retiring board members JOHN POWERS '55 and DAVE O'LEARY '51. Flint club president JIM RHADIGAN '59 expressed hope that the clubs could combine for future UND nights, and perhaps cooperate on other projects during the year. 
Bill Dotterweich '58 
LEHIGH VALLEY 
The ND Club of the Greater Lehigh Valley held a UND Night on April 14, 1971, at the Pennsylvania Restaurant at AUentown, Pa. MICHAEL JORDAN '68 was the substitute speaker for Father FERDINAND BROWN '38. Neil Worden, former AU-American, also spoke briefly to a group of approximately 50 alumni and spouses, along with a prospective student and his mother. This was the first such event sponsored by the club in several years. It looks as though the activities of the club are rapidly gaining a following and that it is on a sound and wholesome footing. 
Present officers are, DAVID McSHANE, '58, president; ERCOLE SPINOSA, '57, vice president; and SAMUEL A. LITZEN­BERGER, '58, secretary-treasurer. Future events planned are, a sports night in June; a back-to-school family picnic in August; and a Communion breakfast in December. 
Samuel A. Litzenberger '58 
LOS ANGELES—The Los Angeles ND Club's Man of the Year Award went to Judge John Carberry '35. At the presentation, left to right, are Tom Hawkins '59, Robert Kelley '34, Judge Carberry, Edward (Moose) Krause; Ben (Bud) Salvaty '62, Chris Foley '62 and Jim Kinnane '57. 
-MUSKEGON 
It's trite to start oft by saying that "it 
happened again" but UND Night is always 
the same and yet ever new. STAN 
TYLER '58, our club president, is getting 
to be such a perfectionist that his handling 
of this year's superb observance seemed 
mere routine. 
The crowd was close, confined, communal and congenial and our coin conscious comptroller of the currency. Treasurer BILL TARDANl '50, the bachelor banker, took the tab from more than 75 alumni and friends who jammed into the "bull" room of the Black Angus Restaurant Lounge in Muskegon to hear JOHN HOUCK '53 and BRIAN REGAN '61 answer such soul searching questions as "Is the University Christian?" They fielded questions from their anxious and attentive audience deftly and with discernment and captured the admiration of their lovely wives as well as those faithful ND partisans who are anxious to see what the University sends up each year. The "fans" were not disappointed (not even a mention of football) and it was good to have the H-R combination keeping us up to date on the cultural and academic aspects of ND life and the status of the "merger." 
Peanut peddling (he also dispenses other delicacies, both liquid and lump) PAUL FORTINO '38, led a delegation from Grand Haven and West Olive to gather with us and it is a tribute to Stan (or the magnetism of ND or both) that he can generate such area enthusiasm. 
We hope to be able again to partially "scholarship" a student at the University this fall and are looking forward to our next club event which is geared to that purpose— our annual golf outing. Joe Eyler of the Chronicle tells us that it is the outstanding athletic and social event of the season. 
Leo L. Linck '43 
NEW ORLEANS 
The New Orleans Club held its annual Seafood Supper at Fitzgerald's Restaurant on March 31. After the dinner a short business meeting was held at which the following officers were elected for the forth­coming year: 
F. JOSEPH DROLLA, JR. '63, president; LESTER J. BOUDREAUX, JR. '62, vice president; LEON I. REYMOND, JR. '64, secretary and HARRY J. CLARK, III '63, treasurer. 
Following the meeting, the 1971 Cotton 
Bowl film was shown. Needless to say, it 
was enjoyed by all. 
Events on the club's calendar included a UND Night in May and the Freshman Sendoff in early September. In addition, plans are being finalized for the festivities in connection with the LSU-ND game in November. 
Leon J. Reymond, Jr. '64 
NEW YORK 
Nearly 200 alumni, parents of students and friends of the University from the New York metropolitan area turned out for the celebration of UND Night on April 23, at the Westchester Country Club, Rye, N. Y. Father JAMES T. BURTCHAELL, C.S.C., University Provost, was the guest speaker. JIM SPELLMAN, '41 received the Man of the Year award for his many years of service as club treasurer. The hard work of GERRY SAEGERT, '40, GENE MAGUIRE, '49, and CHARLIE KOEGLER, '47 helped to assure the success of the annual event. 
At a dinner meeting of the board of directors held at the Advertising Club on March 23, the following new officers were elected: GERALD F. SAEGERT, '40, president; DEON SUTTON, '31, vice president, DOUGLAS L. DALEY, '30, secretary; and PAUL T. SMITH, '60, treasurer. Saegert and Smith resigned from the board and their unexpired terms were filled by J. I. McNAMARA, '31 and JOHN C. DILLON, '47. MICHAEL WARD, '55, replaced HARRY J. WALTERS, '45, who resigned. AU three new directors were nominees in the most recent directors' election and received the highest number of votes of those candidates available from their geographical area who were not already elected as directors or officers. 
The ND Club of New York Annual Retreat held the weekend of April 29-May 2 at St. Ignatius Retreat House in Manhasset, 
L. I. was attended by 18 alumni. Rev. Robert I. Gannon, SJ., former president of 
NEIV YORK—Gerald F. Saegert '40 of the New York City ND Club congratidates Mrs. James F. Spellman upon the presentation of the Man of the Year award to her husband. Others, left to right, are Spellman and Rev. James K. Vaughey '59 who teaches at Cardinal 
Hayes High School in New York. 

Fordham U., was the retreat master. 
TOM BRADLEY, '30, retiring board 
member, was chairman of the retreat. 
John Powers, '43 
PEORIA 

We celebrated UND Night May 10 at 
the Black Angus Restaurant. Our speaker 
was George Kelley, linebacker coacli, who 
answered questions many of us have about 
the campus today. The "Man of the Year 
Award" was given to DENNIS POWERS 
'56. Denny has been very active with the 
Mental Health Association and as a 
recruiter of athletes for the school in 
central Illinois as well as running his own 
insurance agency. He was also an area 
coordinator for the Summa drive. His 
private and public lives reflect his devotion 
to the principles he learned at ND. 
Mike Ryan '64L 
PHILADELPHIA 

More than 120 alumni and friends of ND attended UND Night at the AVhitemarsh Valley Country Club. It was an enjoyable evening for all who graciously attended. The highlight of the evening was most certainly the talk given by Johnny Dee, ND's former basketball coach, and the club's honored guesL We tip our hat to TOM SHALLOW '63 and JOE M. HILGER '60 who worked so hard to make this night such a success. 
Our March meeting was a very successful affair and extremely well attended by members and their friends. It was held at BART JOHNSON'S '48 General Wayne Inn. BRIAN REGAN, ND's regional director of development, commented on the Park-Mayhew Report and also answered questions from the floor concerning ND. It was handled ver>' well and we thank Brian for being with us. We were also honored to have two FBI agents who talked about the activities of organized crime in the Philadelphia area. Many thanks to PAT KITTREDGE '58, the program chairman. 
Our golf outing was scheduled for May 14 at the Bala Golf Club. In conjunction with the outing, an Awards Dinners was held, followed with our regular May meeting. The 1970 Football Highlights, 
including the Cotton Bowl highlights, were shown after the meeting. MATT 
McCLOSKEY '63 was chairman of the event. The year of 1971 has been very 
successful so far and the officers of the club want to thank everyone for making this the best year ever. 
Jim Kelly '64 
PHOENIX 

The ND Club of Phoenix is proud to announce the very successful concert featur­ing the ND Glee Club. The Singing Irish were well received at the concert and reception. We hosted these young men in our homes, and our only complaint was they were not able to stay longer. I'm sure there were many permanent friendships sealed in those few hours. We came to a unanimous conclusion that they are a fine example of the University, and Phoenix was proud to have them. MIKE MOONEY '66 was chairman of a line night. He was assisted by the ND Auxiliary. 
AU-American Larry DiNardo of the 1970 Fighting Irish, was our featured speaker at UND Night, April 23. 
Upcoming events this spring will include our Annual Golf Tournament, showing of the 1970 football highlights film, and a Communion breakfast. 
The Academic Committee was successful once more in landing some of the top Phoenix scholars for the University. The number one grad. of one of our local prep schools was accepted at ND. We will look forward to a nice outing with these new freshmen in the late summer. 
Charles D. Pilon '66 
ROCHESTER 
The ND Club of Rochester installed new 
oflicers for the coming year on April 14, 
They are: ROBERT J. DEWEY '54, 
president; MICHAEL J. WEIDNER '66, 
vice president; JON D. KUPPINGER '64, 
treasurer and LEONARD G. WILT­
BERGER '65, secretary. 
Leonard G. Wiltberger '65 
SAN DIEGO 
UND Night, held in San Diego on April 17, 
at the Catamaran Hotel, was every bit the gala and spectacular event P.R. man BILL WALSH '62, had billed it. Event chairman DICK HESSLING '49, did a superb job putting together the program and making the necessary arrangements. In all, 103 persons attended, including 19 prospective students, parents, and special guests. This was the largest turnout for the annual event, in the Club's 24-year history. President TIM HINCHEY '61, presented 

PEORIA—The ND Club of Peoria presented its Ennio Arboit Award to two prep coaches in a recent UND Night ceremony. Left to right at the presentation are Club President Jerry Higgins, Central High School football coach, Dick Jamieson, Richland's Coach Tom Peeler, ND assistant football coach George Kelly and trophy presenter Pete Vonachen. The trophy is named for the late coach at Spaulding High School. 
"Certificates of Appreciation" to all past club presidents who attended, outgoing officers, and event and committee chairmen. 
Past president and Summa chairman DON YECKEL '55, was presented the "Man of the Year" award. It was pointed out by President Hinchey, that this award is not automatically given each year and is presented only if someone of exceptional merit is available. 
President Hinchey also presented the 
newly-elected president, DOUG GIMBER 
'61, as the president for the new year, and 
the new officers and directors. 
Ed (Moose) Krause was the guest speaker and star of the evening. His timely and relevant talk was not only on sports and how they relate to the overall campus life, but also a coverage of academic and administrative changes. Finally, he tied these two together to illustrate how the sports events support and enhance these changes. In other words, that sports are not an end unto themselves at ND, but can be an enjoyable means to many worth­while ends. 
Bruce Lancaster 

ST. LOUIS 
On April 12 the annual membership meeting and election of officers was held. PAUL GUND '63 was elected president succeeding ROBERT McGLYNN '50. Reelected to the job of VP for publicity was JOHN POELKER '64. Others elected are HANK. LUEPKE '57, VP activities; DICK ASH '54, VP for University relations; DON HEMMER '66, treasurer and PHIL TOMBER '64, secretary. 
ROBERT CHICKEY "54 was elected to be the St. Louis area nominee for the regional opening on the ND Senate, John Poelker was chosen, in addition to his duties as VP Publicity, to work with JOE MCGLYNN '55 on the St. Patrick's Day Parade. Also elected that night to the board of directors were DICK ASH '54, JERRY MIGUEL '59, DENNY COLLINS '68, WILLIAM HORMBERG '43, HANK. LUEPKE '57, and JAY CONLON '52. 
UND Night was held April 23 at the Alumni Center in the Mansion House. The event was presided over by outgoing President Robert McGlynn. The featured guest was EDMUND STEPHAN who spoke about some of the changes in the thinking of the present student body. The other guest was JOHN MACHECA '62. 
The annual Man of the Year award went to Joe McGlynn, the man responsible for St. Louis having a St. Patrick's Day Parade. Upcoming events in St. Louis are the ND Forum in June, Freshmen Night in June, and Golf Night in August. 
Phil Tomber '64 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
At the annual business meeting, DAN W. O'BRIEN '58 was elected club preseident; FRANK. JOHNSON '50, vice president; NORM COOK '57, treasurer, and BRIAN REGAN '61, secretary. The club directors are BILL KILLILEA '60, CHUCK LENNON '61, JOE HANNAN '39, DAN OSBERGER '50, JIM ROEMER '51, DENNY TROESTER '57, JIM DETTL­ING '61, BILL KLEM '45, MIKE HAN­
ST. LOUIS—Joseph B. McGlynn Jr. '55, at left, was honored as ND "Man of the Year" at the UND Night of the St. Louis Club. Others, left to right, are Edmund Stephan '33 who spoke at the dinner, Tom White '37 and Paul J. Gund '63, new president of the club. 
NIGAN '66, and JOHN THURIN '58, JOE 
MCARDLE '68 is the honorary president 
and Rev. ROBERT GRIFFIN, CSC '49, is 
chaplain. 
On March 28, Coach TOM PAGNA 
delivered a warm address to members and 
guests at the annual Rockne Mass and 
breakfast. This occasion marked the 40th 
anniversary of Rock's death. Jim Roemer 
served as chairman. 
The Blue-Gold game, under the leader­ship of ED HEALY and MIKE JORDAN '68, featured the unveiling of the 1971 football team. Attendance topped 18,000 fans, and proceeds went to the Club Scholarship program. The Blue (varsity) team defeated the Golds, 35-12. 
UND Night was celebrated on May 13. 
Rev. James T. Burtchaell, provost, was the 
featured speaker. JAMES \V. FRICK '51, 
vice pres. for Public Relations and Develop­
ment at ND, was named Man of the 
Year. Jim Dettling was chairman of the 
event. 
President O'Brien, in cooperation with Father Griffin, has instituted a Keenan Hall Alumni Fellows Program. This will provide interested members the opportunity of meeting informally with students. The exchange will undoubtedly prove interesting for both alumni and students. 
Brian Regan '61 
SPOKANE 
Club members, their wives and friends, celebrated UND Night on April 19, the traditional second Monday after Easter. The affair was held at Spokane House and, while attendance was poor due to sickness, etc., those present had an enjoyable evening. 
The guest speaker was CHARLES F. OSBORN, '38, our area representative on the Alumni board of directors. His "rambling talk," as he called it, on the theme for the occasion was most interesting, informative and very frank. It was greatly appreciated by all. Club president JERRY NEVIN, '67, was the master of ceremonies. 
Joseph M. Walsh '14 TRIPLE CITIES (N.Y.) 
The ND Alumni Club of the Triple Cities held their annual observance of UND Night at a banquet on April 21, at the Binghamton Country Club. We were pleased to have Rev. Jerome Wilson CSC as our guest speaker. 
It was my pleasure to take office as president of the club at this meeting. I am looking forward to this as an interesting and rewarding experience, though it isn't a new one as I held this office several years as the president of the Des Moines ND Club a while back. Each Club is unique and I approach this year with renewed enthusiasm, and since notification of my nomination the first week in April, I have had the chance to formulate some new plans for the club which I hope will give it the shot of adrenalin it seems to need. 
Installed with me as officers for 71-72 were: TOM BENEDICT, vice president; JACK STANLEY, secretary; BILL BURTIS, treasurer. 
Robert M. Cannon 
UTAH 
April 19 was the date; Hidden Valley 
Country Club in Salt Lake City was the place; and UND Night was the occasion for celebration by the ND Qub of Utah. 
Following elections of new officers, an informal social hour, and dinner, those present were treated to a fine address by RICHARD P. CONKLIN, director of Information Services at the University. His prepared talk encompassed the ND of yesterday compared with the present Uni­versity structure foUomng changes brought about by Vatican II and the Aquarius Age religious attitude of many young church members. 
An interesting question and answer session followed, wherein some of the newer campus attitudes in student life, intellectual freedom and campus liturgies were clarified. Also entering into the discussions concerning 
S3 

newer religious attitudes among present 
day students were guests Father John 
Labranch, Ogden clergyman and long 
time friend of ND, and DAN O'CONNOR 
'69, Chicago Club member curently serving 
in a military installation in the area. 
New officers elected at the meeting 
included JIM WEEKS '53, president, 
LA VERN TURGEON, v.p., and NORM 
HEMMELGARN '48, secretary-treasurer. 
The next definite get-together will be 
the student send-off, tentatively planned for 
the latter part of August. 
John D. Schirack '50 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 

Hands and hearts met in handshakes of introduction, concern and satisfaction at the 48th annual UND night observed on April 12, in Western Washington. The 105 attendees came from Aberdeen, Everett, Port Townsend, Tacoma, the islands sur­rounding Washington, and all points west. Father Quigg delivered the invocation—a unique heartwarming thanks to God for our alma-mater. Chairman JAMES DAILEY '58 introduced newly elected alumni board member CHARLES OSBORNE '38 who reHected the role of concerned parent, voracious reader, serious questioner, and friendly critic. Among other things, Osborne noted the concern of the Alumni Association to "unite and counsel the young." 
President JIM LYONS '54 discussed the structure of the oflicers and directors of ND and announced the new directors for positions 1, 3, and 5. OLIVER FLOR, 
•60, BOB ADAMCZAK NDF and MIL­LARD BATTLES '55. The ND mystique permeated the audience as the featured speaker, ED "Moose" KRAUSE spoke. Remembering, reminiscing, and telling of glory—past and present—the Moose delighted the audience in sharing the enrichment of ND's greatest men. 
Special guests included Royal Brougham, MORRIE STARRETT '18, and the YARR sisters, whose brother TOM captained the ND football team after being recruited by Morrie from an Indian school of 12 in Chimacum. People still remember the fourth quarter effort, willing sacrifice, and the vote of gratitude lingers. Awards were presented to W. JEROME KANE '38, retiring Alumni board director succeeded by CharUc Osborne. BOB MALLON '55 received the man of the year award, and recalled that his dad made it possible to attend ND. "Chitter Chatter" JIM DAILY delighted the audience with his seventh inning stretch, for which he received a standing ovation and a bill for $592. 
We found the Moose completely at ease and we delighted in sharing our hours with him. Among those wanting to see and hear Ed Krause was BILL NOLAN, a long standing ND club member—who was called by God. 
J. J. Gagliardini '58 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 

The spring season came in strong for ND Club of Washington activities. On March 13 the Community Action Program sponsored a birthday party at St. Joseph Home for the Aged. The theme was St. Patrick and the Irish People. There were over 100 senior citizens in attendance. The day's activities were helped out by WIL­LIAM MIDDENDORF '43, JOSEPH SCHWARTZ '61, PAUL SWEENEY '21, VINCENT HANRAHAN '22, GAR ISACCO '66, MARTIN ROMAN '61 and HARRY DUTKO '56. The affair was coordinated by GEORGE VORIS '61. 
The annual St. Patrick's Day party was held at the Army-Navy Club in downtown Washington. The party arrangements were under the leadership of KEN KUPPER '61 and co-workers BOB WHITMORE '70 and JIM SLATTERY '69. A tremendous turnout viewed "1970 Football Highlights" along with a special "Shake Up the Echoes" film. During the evening the musical program was rendered by the "Docs of Dixieland." The climax of the affair was the results of the club elections an­nounced by PETER J. CANNON '56. The winners and coming officers for 1971-72 are: JOSEPH PATRICK CLANCY '53, president; JOHN E. DANIELS '54, vice president; HARRY A. DUTKO '56, treasurer; PATRICK F. KANE '59, sec­retary. New board members JAMES A. GAMMON '56 and BERNARD A. LIEN­HARD '41. 
Our monthly luncheon program con­tinues to be held at the Touchdown Club of Washington D.C, During March our speaker was congressman ROMANO MAZZOLI '54 of Louisville, Ky. The April speaker, GEORGE IZO '60 rounded out the club's monthly visits at noon. Club thanks to BILL SCANLIN and TIM O'REILLY, coordinators. 
UND Night was held April 29 in the banquet room of the Raybum House Office BIdg. on Capitol Hill. A capacity crowd of over 425 heard Rev. THEODORE 
M. HESBURGH CSC, President of ND, give a talk on "Higher Education and the Youth Revolution." Other highlights of the evening were the presentation of the club's Annual awards. The "Notre Dame Man of the Year" award was presented to DAN CULHANE '23. Congratulations Dan. The newly established "Junior of the Year" award was presented to Isaiah Poole of Spingarn H.S., Washington, D.C. Roger Maxwell of Washington Lee H. S., Va. was runner-up. Special guests in attendance were Sen. Edmund Muskie, Sen. Gale McGee, Sen. Vance Hartke, Cong. John Brademas, Cong. JOSEPH MCDADE '53, Cong. JOHN TERRY '45, George Meany and Rev. Gilbert F. Hartke O.P. The evening closed with president-elect Clancy presenting a special plaque to out­going President Cannon along with the club's sincere thanks for all the new ideas instituted during his oflice. 
Many thanks to BERNIE LIENHARD '41, Chairman of UND Night and TOM CAMPBELL '54, Co-chairman jdus all the other committee members: JOE McDADE '53, LEN MONGEON '48, TIM O'REILLY '61, JOE JASINSKI '53, PAT KANE '59, JOHN BLUM '66, JIM GAMMON '56, FRANK CACCIAPAGLIA '47, JIM KRAUSER '61, PETE BROCOLLETn '64 and DICK GALIHER, JR. who made the evening a memorable one. On April 10th the CYO awarded COLLIS JONES "71 Catholic Athlete of Metropolitan Wash, area. The Touchdown Club of Washington 
D.C. honored AUSTIN CARR "71 on April 23rd as athlete of the year. COMING EVENTS: Reunion Bus Trip, Family Picnic, Golf Outing and a possible baseball party. 
New memberships always welcome in the growing Club of Washington. Activities for all interests. My best wishes to Pat Kane, who has now taken this job, and may you never find yourself out of town on deadline day. 
Harry A. Dutko '56 
WYOMING 
The Wyoming ND Club held its first UND Night in years with a dinner at the Holiday Inn. A guest from the campus was Rev. Michael J. Murphy, chairman of the geology department, who showed the film from the "First Tuesday" broadcast and discussed current life on the campus. In charge of arrangements was PATRICK 
H. MEENAN '49, president of the club. Honored guests were St. Mary's alumnae and high school students of the area who had expressed some interest in ND. 
A summer picnic is tentatively planned by the club. 
Patrick H. Meenan '49 
BIOLOGY 
ROBERTA PEARSON, Ph.D. '65, has been teaching at the College of Notre Dame, Belmont, Calif. She has held a post-doctoral research position in radio-biology at the U. of CaUfomia Medical Center in San Francisco and in July will become a post-doctoral research associate in neurobiology at Columbia U. 
An especially good piece of news reached my desk. CHARLES (Chuck) EHRET, Ph. D. '51, was one of two individuals to receive a Distinguished Appointment Award from the 30-member Argonne Universities Association. The award cites his Chronon Theory of Orcadian (daily) Rhythms; i.e., biological time sense as a feature of gene action systems in higher organisms. Chuck will spend a year of study (one of the rewards, the other is a $5,000 prize) at the U. of Wisconsin working in collaboration with Professor Van R. Potter. He will also present a graduate level course on mechanisms and control of biological time. Our congratula­tions to you. Chuck. 
Sister M. CHRISTELLE MACALUSO, R.S.M., M.S. '61, is associate professor of biology and chairman at the College of St. Miiry, Omaha, Neb. She completed her Ph.D. in anatomy at the U. of Nebraska in 1966. A letter from JOHN 
F. McCUE, Ph.D. '64, indicates he is 

still at St. Cloud Stale, Minn. He is 
the proud parent of a new daughter. 
Ralph E. Thorson 
Professor of Biology 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
CHEMISTRY 
Among those present for the AEC award to Milton Burton in March were: SOL DAVISON '51, with Shell Develop­ment in Emei7ville, Cal.; LEW GEVANT­MAN '51, with the National Bureau of Standards in Washington, D.C.; BOB '54 and Rosemarie LAZO from Chicago; JEAN '51 and Huetta MANION from Milwaukee. (Jean is a group leader with AUis-Chalmers there); and BOB SCHULER '49 at Car­negie-Mellon in Pittsburgh. 
ARMANDO HARTMAN recently com­pleted the requirements for the Ph.D. and is back teaching at Universidad Cayetano Heredia in Lima, Peru. RONALD BOCZKOWSKI defended his Ph.D. thesis in late April; he is postdoctoring at the 
U. of Cincinnati. GEORGE CYPHER '50, was recently named technical director of chemistry for International Copper Research Association. LARRY EBY '41 is the current chairman of the Division of Chemical Marketing and Economics of the American Chemical Society; he is with U.S. Gypsum at Des Plaines, 111. JOHN FORTMAN '66 is chairman of the Dayton section of the ACS and is a member of the board editors of Chemistry. John is on the faculty at Wright State U. Sr. ROSE DANIEL HARRINGTON M.S. '53, is teaching at Reicher High School in Waco, Texas. JIM O'REILLY '60, branch manager of the polymer and physical chemistry division at Xerox research laboratory, has been named an associate professor of chemical engineering and materials science, part time, at the 
U. of Rochester. JAY YOUNG '50, at Auburn U., was on campus recently for the ordination of his son John CSC to the priesthood. Also here for the event was Rev. JIM SHEEHAN CSC '49 from King's College in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
Bro. Columba Curran CSC 
Department of Chemistry 
Notre Dame,' Ind. 46556 
ECONOMICS 
The annual meetings of the Allied Social Science Association in Detroit provided the setting for a reunion of former graduate students of the Economics Department. This marked the first time the Economics Department has attempted such a reunion. The highh'ght of the gathering was a cocktail party at the Hotel Ponchartrain. 
DAVID McKEE Ph.D. '66, presently associate professor at Kent State U. and the co-author of three economics books was present along with fellow Canadian JOHN WEIR Ph.D. '64, chairman of the department at Waterloo Lutheran U. at Waterloo, Ont. EDWARD BORUS M.A. '61, chairman of the board of the Mount Clemens Saving Bank was able to give us the banker's view of the economy. R'VXAND TAYLOR Ph.D. '67, assistant chairman of the Department of Economics at Northern Illinois U. and the author of several articles on credit unions, was also heard discussing the monetary situation. It was wonderful to see ERNESTO MAR­COS Ph.D. '70, who traveled from 
Monterrey, Mexico to join us. Ernesto, 
impeccably dressed as always, was very 
adept at showing us around Detroit. 
MICHAEL MATHIS M. S. '67, president 
of Creative Concepts Management Expertise 
in LaPorte, Ind. was present as was JOHN 
SCHEIDELL Ph.D. '60, one of the first 
graduates of the department. 
Faculty members present from the de­
partment were Frank Bonello, Kenneth 
Brown, Dennis Dugan, Frank Jones, 
Kwan Kim, William Leahy, Roger Skurski, 
•Thomas Swartz and Stephen Worland. One indication of the success of the reum'on was that it lasted until early in the morning. The gathering was also joined by two' professors from Texas U. with whom we exchanged many pre-Cotton Bowl thoughts. A definite preference function for Scotch was evidenced by most of those present as extra bottles of Scotch had to be requisitioned throughout the evening. In the next issue, we will present news of former graduate students whom we heard from but who were not able to attend the reunion. 
Professors Brown, Dugan, Kim and Leahy delivered papers at the Detroit meetings as did Sylvester Schieber, a current graduate student. 
William H. Leahy 
Associate Professor of Economics 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
HISTORY 
All those who have known Prof. M. A. 
Fitzsimons and Mrs. Fitzsimons will be 
saddened to learn of the death of their 
son, Gerald, in an automobile accident 
in March. 
Several faculty changes are in the offing 
for the Department of History. CARL 
ESTABROOK will leave at the end of 
the present year and EDWARD MENARD 
will probably depart to do miUtary service. 
Rev. JAY DOLAN, currently at the U. 
of San Francisco, will join the department 
next fall. Fr. Dolan is a specialist in 
American church history. 
Prof. JONATHAN ZISKIND and wife, Martha, are the happy parents of a baby girl, Minna Pearl, bom March 24. Cari SCHOTT, WILLIAM FOWLER, and PHILIP RILEY all defended their doc­toral dissertations this spring and will receive their Ph.D.'s in May. Carl will go into military service; Bill will go to North­eastern in Boston if he is not also summoned to military duty; and Phil will join the history faculty of Madison College in Harrisonburg, Va. RICHARD ELMORE has returned from Paris where he was doing research for his dissertation. WALTER HERSCHER stopped by for a brief visit on his way home to Michigan, He has been in the doctoral program at the U. of Oklahoma. 
PHILIP GALLAGHER, currenUy at Brooklyn College, delivered a paper to the Medieval Club of New York on April 23. He reports that his wife, Mary, has passed her Ph.D. orals. (A properly educated American family!) Phil reports that ROBERT HUESTON will return to ND this summer to work on his dissertation, that KENNETH JENSEN will do research in Europe this summer, and that DAVID TRABOULAY recently visited the Gallaghers. 
THOMAS PLASTINO, feariess utility man on the soflball team, taught at Murray Slate in 1969-70 but has spent the past 
year in Lancaster, Pa., working at a variety of jobs and attempting to com­plete his dissertation. Tom tau^t one class at Towson Stale College in Maryland where DEAN ESSLINGER is a member of the history faculty. CHARLES TULL of Indiana U. in South Bend, bedridden for weeks with back injuries, will have his recovery hastened by a promotion to full professor and a summer grant from the American PhilosojAical Sociely. ANN KEARNEY has been employed this year as librarian and then head of the social studies department at Indiana Vocational and Technical College in South Bend. REV. THOMAS ENGLETON CSC, formerly of ND, is now at Ancilla College in Donaldson, Ind. SALVATORE CILELLA has spent the past year as director of the South Bend Museum, maintained by the Northern Indiana Historical Society. Sr. ANN KESSLER of Mount Marty College in Yankton, S.D. will be director of a South Asia Institute to be held at that college this summer. JOHN MAR­SZALEK. of Gannon College has received a summer stipend from the National En­dowment for the Humanities and a Gannon Faculty Research Grant to complet work on his book this summer. JAMES F. MULVIHILL has been appointed school business administrator by the Rutherford, NJ. board of education. James has taught and held administrative positions in that school system for the past eight years. He lives with his wife and four children in West Orange, NJ. 
SILVER LINING DEPT. — One conso­lation in the aftermath of the unfortunate basketball season is that we did not lose any players to either the NBA or ABA draft. Consequently, a splendid aggregation of finely conditioned, top-flight, scholar-athletes was available for the soflball season. Not surprisingly, we have rolled over four successive opponents like an avalanche. In each game we have made more hits than errors, an infallible sign of a pennant contender. 
Bernard Norling 
Department of History 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
LAW 
Acting Dean Murphy and Father Bill 
Lewers visited the ND law students in London while conducting negotiations for 
the Year Abroad Program in England. 
Professor Jack (Chief) Brodericic was re-elected vice president of Phi Beta Kappa, ND chapter, at the annual meeting of the chapter on April 26. Jack is also co-chairman of the I9th Union-Manage­ment Conference to be held Friday, June 11, at St. Mary's College by the Department of Economics in cooperation with the Law School. The conference theme is a realistic look at negotiations today. 
Professor Anton-Hermann Chroust has recently published Polilical Sociology (ed. 
S. N. Eisenstadt, New York, 1971), chapter XXIX: "The Corporate Idea and the Body Politic in the Middle Ages," pp. 226-231 and "The American Legal Profession: Its Agony and Ecstacy (1776­1840)," Notre Dame Lawyer, VoL 46, No. 3 (I97I), pp. 487-525. Professor Chroust will also lecture in England Ibis summer at the Sorbonne, the U. of Frankfort, and at the U. of Munich. 
Acting Associate Dean Emeritos-dect in Residence Charlie Rice has just written 
Authority and Rebellion, The Case lor 
Orthodoxy in the Catholic Church, published 
by Doubleday. Prof. Rice has also debated 
and lectured on the abortion issue at 
Valparaiso Law School, the U. of Toledo 
and citizens' groups in Racine and Madison, 
Wis. during April. 

Dean-designate Tom Shaffer and Acting ' 
Dean Murphy discussed the Law School's 
current program and its future with mem­
bers of the Law Advisorj' Council, April 
29-30. 

Assistant Dean Les Foschio was ap­
pointed to the Judicial Task Force for 
Region 1 of the Indiana Criminal 
Justice Agency and moderated a panel 
on alternatives to local and campus law 
enforcement problems held at ND April 
14th. 
Leslie G. Foschio 
Notre Dame Law School 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING 
GARY HENGER, M.S. '64, a control metallurgist for Inland Steel's Chicago operations recently was a member of a panel for the Chicago section, AIME, Young Engineers' night. He gave a paper on "Metallographic and Chemical Characteristics of Ancient Eastern and Western Iron Base Alloys." WILLIAM D. MANLY, M.S. '49, has recently been promoted to corporate vice president of Engineered Products Group, Cabot Corp. Bill will be in charge of the Stellite Division at Kokomo, the Machinery Division at Dallas, and the Plastics Division at Louisville. KEN MARINO, geology-metallurgy 1969, is pursuing graduate work in Sanitary Engineering at the U. of Pittsburgh. He expects to join the growing group of professional depolluters. 
E. A. Peretti Department of Metallurgical Engineering Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

PHYSICS 

Your columnist is happy to report intense reader response generated by the account of HANK PRASK's whereabouts and activities which appeared in this column in the Feb. 1971 ALUMNUS. Corrections are still coming in. The first was supplied by Dr. John ',V. Mihelich of the ND Physics Department. (See April-May ALUMNUS.) The second was supplied by Dr. KENNETH L. WARSH of the Department of Oceanography, the Florida State U., Tallahassee, Fla. 32306. Ken and Hank both received their degrees (B.S. in physics) from ND in 1958. Hank stayed on while Ken went to Florida State U., where he received his Ph.D. in physics in 1962. Ken writes that Hank has been married for at least two years, that he is now living in Washington, D.C., and that he has been active in helping to set up the ND Club in Washington. At Ken's suggestion, I contacted our Alumni Office to verify this. They report that Hank is now with the Reactor Radiation Division, the National Bureau of Standards, Wash­ington, D.C. 20234. Many thanks Ken for the information. How about checking in. Hank? 
Next, for a change of pace, here are some news items about two of our more recent Physics Ph.D. alumni. K. MICHAEL 
5« 

DAVIES '70 (theoretical physics) received his B.S. in physics from Loyola U. (Los Angeles) in 1963. Mike, along with two other physics majors at Loyola, elected to come to ND for graduate work in physics. After completing work for his Ph.D., Mike accepted a position on the faculty of the Department of Physics, Creighton U., Omaha, Neb. 68131, where he now holds the rank of asst. prof. Mike writes that he will be married on May 15, and that his bride will be MARCIA CORDES (Ph.D. in chemistry from ND in 1966), currently a member of the faculty of the department of Chem­istry at Creighton. Congratulations and best wishes, Mike and Marcia. (I wonder if I scooped the Chemistry Grad columnist on this item.) 
DENNIS F. POLIS '70 (theoretical physics), wife Susanne, and son Michael, live at 413 Academy, Newark, Del. 19711. Dennis was a contemporary of Mike Davies, first as an undergraduate physics major at Loyola U. (Los Angeles), and next as a graduate student in physics at ND. After completing work for his Ph.D., Dennis accepted a position as an operations research associate with the Lockheed-California Co., Burbank, Calif. Dennis left Lockheed-California before the start of the 1970-71 academic year to accept a position as asst. prof, in the newly formed College of Marine Studies at the U. of Delaware, Newark, Del. Dennis wrote that he was hired as a "generalist" or a "systems man," and that he was planning a multi-disciplinary study of the Delaware Bay. He wasn't certain whether he would end up as a physical oceanographer, or a mathematical ecologist, or neither. Anyway, I'll bet he has fun doing it, and that the study will present many fascinating problems. 
That's all for this time. Robert L. Anthony Department of Physics Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 


ENGAGEMENTS 

Miss Rebecca Collins to CHARLES M. SWITZER JR. '62. Miss Linda Shirley to Lt. GERALD S. WYSOCKI '65. Miss Margaret J. Roberts SMC '69 to DAVID G. RICHARDS '67, 71L. Miss Vera Rjashenzew to ALAN E. POLLOCK '68. Miss Anna Catherine Tassone to JAMES 
D. DAVIDSON JR., Ph.D. '69. 
MARRIAGES 

Mrs. Genevieve HuUer and JOHN W. COURTNEY '25, March 12. 
Evelyn Hoffman Nagy and ARTHUR D. CRONIN JR. '36, Dec. 30. Miss Mary Mitman and JOSEPH HEGNER '55, April 17. Miss Judy Nelson SMC '62 and JEROME J. BURKE '58, Dec. 31. Miss JUDITH H. JOHNSON M.A. '66 and John W. Kropf, Oct. 3. Miss Dana Regan and DENNIS DEE '66L, May 1. Miss Janice Mary Radovich and JOHN GEORGE RADOSEVICH '67, March 13. Miss Laura B. Waters and Lt. (J. G.) WILLIAM T. HEIDEN Jr. '68, April 17. Miss Janice Lee Brimberry and RICH­ARD T. WHITE '70, Jan. 23. 


ADOPTIONS 
Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD T. MARTIN JR., '54, a son, Thomas William, Jan. 15. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS J. NOWAK '57, a son, Michael Joseph, Oct. 28. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD B. BRODER­ICK '58, a son, Edward Matthew, Jan. 4. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. JEROME P. HENDEL '47, a son, Robert Francis, April 22. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE H. MCCARTHY JR. '49, a daughter, Jan. 31. Mr. and Mrs. RONALD B. MYRTER '50, a son, Bernard Joseph, Jan. 11. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. MULDOON '51, a son, Patrick Joseph, March 15. Mr. and Mrs. DON CARMELITE '56, a son, John Kenneth, March 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN P. McMEEL '57, a daughter, Suzanne Elizabeth, March 9. 
Dr. and Mrs. JOSEPH P. EMMITE '58, a son, David Joseph, Oct. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. FREDERIC J. MOWLE '59, M.S. '61, Ph.D. '66, a son, William Frederic, April 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANZ PETER SCHEU­ERMANN '59, a daughter, Heide Elizabeth, April 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. THOMAS '59, a son, Brian Joseph, March 16. Mr. and Mrs. GERALD BOLAND '63, a son, March 14. Mr. and Mrs. ALAN J. COOPER '64, a son, Jarrett Alan, March 2. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER J. GAJDA '64, a daughter. Colleen Anne, in January. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A. CICARELLI '65, a son Gregory John, in February. Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL J. HOFFMAN '65, a son, Yuri Lawrence, Feb. 21. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS KENNEY '66L, a son, Thomas James Kenney III, Feb. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN HENRY DAVIS '67, a son, Jonathan Morelli, Feb. 26. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM D. RUSSO '68, a daughter, Anne Marie, Feb. 2. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM SEALL '68L, a daughter, Elizabeth Colleen, April 19. Mr. and Mrs. HARRY E. LYON JR. '69, a daughter, Angela Rene, Feb. 15. Mr. and Mrs. "nMOTHY ROONEY '69, a daughter, Erin Cathleen, April 19. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL GODBOUT '69L, a daughter, Aimee, Nov. 26. 
SYMPATHY 
JOHN B. KANALEY '09, on the death of his wife, Dec. 4. JOSEPH M. MAAG '21 on the death of his wife in 1970. 

JOSEPH W. NYIKOS '23 on the death of his wife in March. 
THEODORE S. HALPIN '32 on the death of his twin brother, Edward '29-'31, in 1971. 
Dr. EUGENE A. SULLIVAN '32, ED­WARD M. SULLIVAN '33 and DANIEL 
J. SULLIVAN '40 on the death of their brother. Dr. JOHN L. SULLIVAN '29. 
CHARLES BORDA '33 on the death of his brother, JOSEPH L. BORDA '33, May 2. 
CHARLES E. MAHER '35 and CHARLES J. MAHER '68 on the death of mother and grandmother, Mrs. Charles A. Maher, May 5. 
Rev. WILLIAM D. CURTIS '43 and DANIEL C. CURTIS JR. '52 on the death of their father DANIEL C. CURTIS '17. 
JAMES E. PADESK.Y '47 on the death of his mother, March 19. LEO COSTELLO '48 on the death of his father, March 2. Sr. JEANNE MARIE DUBBS '52, JAMES A. DUBBS JR. '37 and RICHARD 
T. '39-'40 on tho death of their father, JAMES A. DUBBS Sr. '06, Dec. 4. 
ALBERTO SALAZAR '52, on the death of his father, EMILIO R. SALAZAR '16, April 28. 
Rev. JAMES T. BURTCHAELL CSC '56, on the death of his father, James T. Burtchaell, April 3. 
T. JOHN FOLKS 111 '57 and ROBERT 
L. FOLKS '69 on the death of their father, T. JOHN FOLKS JR. '30. WILLIAM KANE '59 on the death of his mother, March 4. 
ROBERT B. FITZSIMONS '60 and Prof. Matthew A. Fitzsimons on the death of brother and son, Gerald Aidan Fitz­simons, March 27. 
WILLIAM McMURTRIE '60 on the death of his mother, Feb. 22. JAMES F. MURPHY '61 on the death of his father, Edward J. Murphy, March 21. ROGER E. KELLING "62 on the death of his father, Glenn Kelling, in May. 
LAWRENCE C. LUTHER '63 on the death of his father, EDMUND J. LUTHER "25, May II, and Sister CECILE MARIE LUTHER CSC M.S. '50 and Sister ANNE CECILE CSC '56, M.A. '64 on the death of their brother. 
LAWRENCE K. WALSH "64 on the death of his father, RICHARD S. WALSH '31, in February. 
ANTHONY J. BORDA '70, on the death of his father, JOSEPH L. BORDA 33, May 2. 
BENJAMIN G. DuBOIS, retired French professor (1924-41) on the death of his wife, Mary, April 14. 
DEATHS 
JAMES A. DUBBS Sr. '06, Dec. 4. He is survived by his widow, Lucy, 2950 Berkshire Rd., Cleveland, Ohio, 44118; and six children including Sr. JEANNE MARIE '52, JAMES A., Jr. '37 and RICHARD T. '39-'40. 
HARRY C. MCINTYRE '07-'09, April 
10. He is survived by his son, James H. Mclntyre, 730 N. Main St., Auburn, Ind., three grandchildren, a brother and a sister. 
CARLOS GONZALEZ VILLAMIL '13. He is survived by his family at Av. Pardo 522 Miraflores, Lima, Peru. 
T.N. (Ted) FEYDER '14, April 15. He is survived by his widow at 800 W. 4th St., Sioux Falls, S.D.; 3 sons, 4 daughters; 26 grandchildren and 5 great-grand­children. 
THEODORE J. SAUER '15, in October 1970 at Fort Recovery, Ohio. 
Bro. THEOGENE (Frederick Joseph) MERLINE CSC '15-'16, May 12. He was ND postmaster 1922-45. 
EMILIO R. SALAZAR '16, April 28. He is survived by his widow, 1400 Fre­mont Ave., Apt. 2, South Pasadena, CaUf., and four children including a son, ALBERTO '52. 
DANIEL C. CURTIS '17L, Nov. 4. He is survived by his widow, at the Cardinal Nursing Home, South Bend, Ind.; two sons, Rev. WILLIAM D. CURTIS '43, and DANIEL C. CURTIS JR. '52; and two sisters, Mrs. Jane Anderson and Mrs. Charles Kearney. A grandson, Curtis An­derson is a member of the Class of '71. 
JAMES H. BRENNAN '20. He is sur­vived by his widow, Edyth, 3530 N.E. 23rd St., Pompano Beach, Fla.; a son, two daughters, 17 grandchildren and one great­grandchild. 
DANIEL W. DUFFY '21, May 1. He is survived by his widow, Welda, the Colonial Hotel, 523 Prospect Ave., Cleveland. Ohio. 
LINDSEY BLAYNEY L.L.D. '23, March 
13. He is survived by his widow, Ida, Marine-on-St. Croix, Minn., two sons and six grandchildren. 
EDMUND J. LUTHER '25, May II. He is survived by his widow. Marguerite, 1531 
E. LaSalle Ave., South Bend, Ind.; a son, LAWRENCE C. '63; two brothers. Rev. Joseph A. and James M.; three sisters. Mrs. William F. Roemer, Sister CECILE MARIE CSC, M.S. '50 and Sister ANNE CECILE CSC '56, M.A. '64, and 4 urandchildren. 
Rev. JOSEPH J. McCARTNEY CSC '26, May 21. He is sur\'ived by a brother, James, and four sisters, Mary, Eileen, Ann and Marjorie. all of South Bend, Ind. 
Sr. M. MARJORY HERMAN SND '26, Feb. 22. 
DANIEL J. KELLY '26, March 12. He is survived by his widow, Mildred, 619 N. St. Louis Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 46617, and a brother, J. Paul Kelly and a sister, Mrs. Virginia Renstrew. 
Dr. JACOB HALPERIN '28, April 15. He is survived by his widow, Kate Rose, 1617 E. 50th PI., Chicago 111. 60615. 
PIERCE J. O'CONNOR '28, Oct. 20. He is survived by his family including a brother, Edward, four nieces and two nephews. 
JAMES J. REILLY '28, March 25. He is survived by his widow at Spauding, Neb. 68665. 
DONALD S. BALDWIN '29, Feb. 17. He is survived by his family at 16 W. Conron St., Danville, 111. 61833. 
Dr. JOHN L. SULLIVAN '29, Feb. 19. He is survived by his widow, Dorothy, 530 
E. 23rd St., New York, N.Y., and three brothers. Dr. EUGENE A. '32, EDWARD 
M. '33 and DANIEL J. '40. 
T. JOHN FOLKS JR. '30, April 12. He is survived by his widow at 81 Purdy Lane, Amityville, N.Y. 11701; four sons, 
T. JOHN III '57, ROBERT L. '69, James and Joseph, and a daughter Mary. 
Rev. RICHARD DUANE PATRICK CSC '31, March 7 at Holy Cross House, ND. 
RICHARD S. WALSH '31, in February. He is survived by his widow, 224 W. Third St., Scottsdale, Ariz. 85251, and a son, LAWRENCE K. '64. 
SABATH M. NIGRO '32, March 11. He is survived by his widow, Mabel, 202 Hazard Ave., Enfield, Conn.; a son, Michael Jr., and a daughter, Mrs. David Schillman. 
JOSEPH L. BORDA '33, May 2. He is survived by his widow, Helen Grace, 5410 Connecticut Ave. N\V, Washington, D.C.; three sons ANTHONY J. '70, Charles and Joseph L. Jr.; two daughters, a brother CHARLES '33 and a grandchild. 
MARK H. DONOVAN, M.D. '33, July 15. He is survived by his widow, Dolores, 2101 E. 25th Place, Tulsa, Okla.; two daughters, Mrs. Mohsen Sadeghi and Marcia, and a son, Daniel. 
HARRY W. BLACK JR. '34 in 1971. He is survived by his family at 2249 Briarwood Rd., Cleveland Heights, Ohio 44118. 
NICHOLAS MOLNAR '34, April 15. He is survived by his widow. Rose, 940 
N. Drexel Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 46201; a son, Thomas; a brother and a sister. 
Dr. HUGH B. O'NEIL '34, Feb. 6. He is survived by his family at 245 N. Smith St., Vinita, Okla. 74301. 
ELMER E. HOOLEY" '36, Jan. 21. He is survived by his family at 414 S. Main St., Rochelle, 111. 61068. 
CARMI A. BELMONT '36, Dec. 31. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Lorenzo Belmont and a sister, Loretta, 33 Picard Ct. Swansea, Mass. 02777. 
JAMES W. McHUGH '37, May 5. He is survived by his widow, Dorothy, 1440 
N. Lake Shore Dr., Chicago, 111. 60610 and a brother, Edward. 
LOUIS A. FOX '38, April 20. He is survived by his widow, Sarah, 4305 Hart­man Rd., Fort Wayne, Ind.; a son, two daughters, his mother and two sisters. 
FRED A. VOGLEWEDE '41, April 21. He Is survived by his widow at Reforma 156-15, Mexico 6, D.F. 
JAMES P. DOYLE '42, April 27. He is survived by his widow at 2520 E. Elm St., Davenport, Iowa 52803. 
DAVID R. CARTWRIGHT '45, April 
15. He is survived by his widow, Marilyn, 2600 Norfolk Rd., Cleveland Heights, Ohio 44106, four sons, four daughters, his father, four brothers and two sisters. 
JAMES F. CLYNE JR. '49, April 22. He is survived by his widow, Eileen, Rockville Center, N.Y.; two sons, four daughters, his parents and four brothers. 
Rev. D. JAMES SULLIVAN CSC '53, May 21. He is survived by his mother, Mrs. Raymond Sullivan, Sheffield, HI.; a brother RAYMOND J. '50, and two sisters, Mrs. Robert McEnore and Sister Mary Sullivan SHM. 
TODD EMANUEL '61, April 1, 1970. He is survived by his family at 3214 43rd West, SeatUe, Wash. 98199. 
DONALD J. CASTELLACCIO '63, in 1970. He is survived by his sister, Lucy Castellaccio, 120'/i S. 13th St., Richmond, Ind. 
Lt. JOSEPH S. SMITH '67, killed in action over Cambodia. He is survived by his widow, Elaine, 2096 N. Union St., Decatur, 111. 62526. 
EDWARD GALLAGHER '69, April 
30. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Harry Gallagher, 810 E. Dayton St., South Bend, Ind.; two brothers and two sisters. 
TIMOTHY J. MacCARRY '70, March 
18. He is survived by his family at 54 Leona Ave., New York, N.Y. 10956. 
THE BURDEN OF PROOF 

Finding a set of values in a fast-paced world in which there are still no definitive answers is a tough problem —especially for young people who have grown up to violent accompani­ment: the sound of a bullet killing dy­namic leaders in whom they had placed their hope, the picture of battle between blacks and government power in numerous cities, the realiza­tion that friends who died, or became casualties, in Vietnam did so against their will in a war in which they did not believe. Is it any wonder that students do not automatically accept the tenets of this society, that they critically examine the existing power structure? The student now says that his beliefs, his values, will be based on the facts and logic as he perceives them in a changing world. And I do 
not believe it is the duty or right of anyone to prevent the students from looking at any question openly and from every angle. The burden of proof of the acceptability of any pres­ent doctrine is on existing society, for a tenet to stand it must be able to stand on logic, reason, and reality. 
The ALUMNUS has seemed to im­prove with each issue lately and in airing and studying divergent views, it has provided a necessary service, a service our University should, and is providing in a much larger scope. I am proud of my alma mater and look forward to seeing ND, its students, and alumni active in the continuing struggle to improve life for all. 
Oliver W. Holmes once wrote: 
"When men have realized that time has upset many fighting faiths, they may come to believe even more than they believe the very foundation of their own conduct, that the ultimate good desired is better reached by free trade in ideas — that the best test of truth is the power of the thought to get itself accepted in the competition of the market, and that truth is the only ground upon which their wishes safely can be carried out. That, at any rate, is the theory of our constitution. It is an experiment, as all life is an experiment."—PFC ROGER A. KILEY '69, HHC, EUSA TPMO). APO SF 96301. 
PROUD AND PLEASED 

Previously, when I had occasion to be proud and pleased by a speech or action by Father Hesburgh, I have written him personally. Two recent incidents: the letter to Our Sunday Visitor regarding its criticism of the University because of the remarks made by a femlib speaker, and the appointment of Bayard Rustin, long­time friend of mine and leading black leader, to the University Board of Trustees. 
Now, belatedly, I feel it better to write to you. The current occasion: Father Hesburgh's injunction to the members of the National Catholic Educational Association, that Catholic education should teach students about issues central to man's dignity: war and peace, civil rights, concern for the poor, and a proper respect for human sexuality. That speech should be read and heeded by today's graduates. I find them all too often "singularly un­distinguished in their values relating to human equality following years of Catholic education. — HARRY W . FLANNERY, 1105 N. Bundy Dr., Los Angeles, Calif. 
STATISTICS 

The April-May 1971 Notre Dame ALUMNUS lists a total of 402 seniors voted out of 1450 eligible for eight candidates (for the 1971 Senior Class Fellow). Curiously their figures do not include the number of votes cast for Mr. Kunstler's selection. Fifty-two votes, equal to 3.5 per cent of the senior class, could have conceivably elected Mr. Kunstler. I use this ex­treme only to emphasize a point, ob­viously this statistical probability would be highly unlikely, but realistic­ally, even if he received half of the votes cast, it would mean a selection by only 13.5 per cent of the class. 
As speculative as the above may 
seem, this much is fact, only 27 per­cent of the senior class participated in this election. Such disinterest in an election certainly should behoove the senior class and the administration to analyze and improve the procedures used in selecting the candidates and the procedures used for casting bal­lots.—^JoHN F. GALLAGHER '56, 210 
E. 36th St., New York. N.Y. 10016. 
KUNSTLER SAD CHOICE 
The choice of William M. Kunstler as the 1971 Senior Fellow by the Notre Dame senior class makes a mockery of the award. To say that he has the integrity, the decency and the willing­ness to work for the best values and finest raditions of our society is to take liberties with the truth. I note that you say in the ALUMNUS that this award was established in 1969. I don't recall who received the award in the past two years, but I feel sure that whoever the recipients were, they will be prompted to return the medals. —CYRIL T. GARVEY '41, 19 Jefferson Ave., Sharon, Pa. 16146. 
MIDNIGHT RIDERS 
I have just read "Midnight Riders in the Land of Oz" by Rev. Robert Grif­fin. Although-1 do not deny that cer­tain drugs are harmful, and that when abused they are both physically and psychologically crippling, I do want to take issue with what Father Grifiin said and with the way he said it. 
Almost everyone knows by now that scare tactics and purple rhetoric about drugs do more harm than good —and I suspect that the self-indul­gently hyperbolic rhetoric of Father Griflin's essay may well be a demon­stration of that fact. Kids who have not found drug trips—or highs—to have anything to do with such cate­chetically diabolical horrors as "loath­.some slimy things that crawl up from the night swamps of the doomed imag­ination" will surely laugh at this poor priest for his seeming ignorance and fear. Father Griffin admits to having a "Gothic" imagination, and his essay is filled with its products — unreal goblins from horror movies and their liturgical counterpart, the old fire and brimstone sermons. But what we need to deal with drug abuse—at Notre Dame and everywhere else—is intelli­gence, honesty, and the closest we can get to the truth. We need realism, not mad, frightned visions of "arabesques of terror" and a "witches' sabbath" to suggest the dangers of drug abuse.— BERT G . HORNBACK '57, TTie Uni­versity of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48104. 

by Robert A. Erkins, President, Notre Dame Aliiinni Association 
As your Alumni representative on the Notre Dame Board of Trustees, I spent May 14 discussing the St. Mary's-Notre Dame Unification Plan with other trustees at the Spring Meeting. The views previously ex­pressed by the Alumni Senate and various individual Alumni were stated to the Board (See "Alumni Speak," NDA, April-May 1971). 
The agreement pointed out the close historical bonds and the parallel en­deavors of Notre Dame's and St. Mary's Holy Cross Fathers and Sis­ters as well as dedicated laymen and laywomen to build toward the single goal of Catholic higher education. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's will now move ahead to give full and equal participation by women in the University not only as students but also as trustees, administrators, faculty members and staff professionals. The details of the agreement are outlined on page 3 of this issue. 
The Boards of Trustees of both schools recognize that coeducation offers advantages and that a common history forbids us to seek them except together. All realize that two teams of educators, two autonomous tra­ditions, two proud schools cannot become one without strain and sac­rifice. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's now move into an interesting and chal­lenging few years. They will both need the help of their respective alumni and alumnae in order to build an even greater Catholic Uni­versity. 
There will be lots of changes — some quite small. Just how do you change the words—"while Her loyal sons are marching onward . . ."? 
WORKING SESSION--ND Aliinmi senators meet to discuss tlie most effective ways to promote club activities during their annual meet­
ing on Cainptis. 

Senatops Meet 
More than 90 ND alumni senators from across the nation came together at the University in late April for the annual joint meeting of the Alumni Senate and the Board of Directors. 
Donald F. O'Brien. honorar>' presi­dent of the Alumni Association, ad­dressed the opening session. 
During working sessions the senate discussed the most effective means of attracting attendance at club func­tions, the involvement of younger alumni, closer cooperation with St. Mary's College alumnae, continuing education, summer job placement for students and community service by clubs and their members. 
Attendence at club function is af­fected by several factors, the senators concluded: 1) enthusiasm of leader­ship, 2) the price of admission, 3) nature of function, 4) the amount of organization that goes into the pro­motion of an event and 5) location. 
The senators generally agreed that younger alumni should be visible in the governing structure of clubs. Two thirds of ND alumni have graduated since 1950 and 40 per cent are grad­uates since 1960. 
In urging closer cooperation with St. Mary's College alumnae clubs, the senate asked ND clubs to add SMC graduates in their area to mailing lists for invitations to appropriate club functions. More specific directions for closer cooperation will be issued from the Alumni Office when plans for the ultimate unification of the Alumni As­sociations are finalized. 
In other sessions, the senators heard Fr. Charles E. Sheedy, chair­man of the Coordinating Committee on Coeducation; Fr. James T. Burt­chaell, ND provost; James D. Coo­ney, executive director of the Alumni Association; Fr. Thomas Chambers, director of student residence halls; Russell T. Gagnon, an assistant direc­tor in the Admissions Office; James 
W. Frick, vice president for Public Relations and Development; and Fr. William Toohey, director of Campus Ministry. 
Winners of the Outstanding Notre Dame Clubs for 1970 were: Wash­ington, D.C., "A" category; Dayton, 
O. C'B") and San Diego, Calif. ("C"). A special citation was given to the Dallas Club for its service in con­nection with the two Cotton Bowl games. 
f 1971^72 
> 1971 MIAMI BEACH FOOT­BALL HOLIDAY 
OCTOBER 7-10,1971 
via Eastern Airlines Jet 

This tour includes three nights at the exclusive DEAUVILLE HOTEL, on the ocean, Miami Beach • Full-Course Break­fasts and Dinners each day! • Special Welcome Party • Game Ticket and trans­portation to game. 
Price S239 per person, plus 326 taxes, from Chicago, including air! 
• 1971 NEW ORLEANS FOOTBALL HOLIDAY 
NOVEMBER 18-21, 1971 ­
via Eastern Airlines Jet 

Three nights accommodations at the luxurious ROYAL ORLEANS HOTEL, right in the French Quarter! • Special Arrival Party • An evening of fun at Pete Fountain's! • Game Ticket and transpor­tation to Baton Rouge for the L.S.U. Game. 
Price S229 per person, plus S22 taxes from Chicago, including air! 
• 1972 "IRELAND ESCAPADE" 

APRIL 22-30, 1972 —via TWA Jet 
Tour includes seven wonderful nights in Ireland* Visits to famous Irish cities of DUBLIN, KILLARNEY, others! • Full Irish Breakfasts and lunch or dinner each day! • Medieval Castle Tour, Ban­quet! • Superior Hotels, many extras! 
Price S329 per person, plus S26 taxes, services from New York, including air! 
All tours limited to Notre Dame Alumni and immediate families! 
Send to: 
^ Mr. James D. Cooney Executive Director 
University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Please send me complete information on the following Alumni tours: 
ni97 1 MIAMI BEACH FOOTBALL HOLIDAY ni97 1 NEW ORLEANS FOOTBALL HOLIDAY ni97 2 "IRELAND ESCAPADE" 
Name 
Address 
City 
State Zip 
CLASS YEAR 
L. 








