The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Vol. 43 No. 5 
November, 1965 
XAMES E. AKUSTRONG, "Zi 
Editor JOHN P. THUJUN, '39 Managing Editor 
INNOVATION AND GROWTH KEYNOTE UNIVERSITY'S 124th YEAR; 



N.D. COMMUNION OBSERVANCE TO BE HELD WEEK OF DEC. 8 
P Clubs Switch Annual Sunday Affair to this 
, Year's Weekday Feast 
[ 
Observance of the Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday this year will be held by many Notre Oame Clubs on 
December 8 instead of the traditional "Sunday nearest the Feast of the Im­maculate Conception." 
Parish complications have led the clubs away from the Sunday event to 
1 this year's weekday feast of the Blessed Mother. Several clubs which already have tried the new plan recommend its adop­tion in view of the evening Masses and the new rules on fasting. Arrangements, however, have been subject to local dioc­esan regulations and permissions. 
New York Origin The observance, begun in 1938 by the Notre Dame Club of New York, has be-f come an annual tribute by Notre Dame 
• men to Our Lady in her identity as patroness of the United States. In each year the emphasis of the program has been for stronger ties between religion and citizenship. 
The pioneering New York Communion breakfast was addressed by the late 
' Cardinal O'Hara, then the president of N'oti'e Dame, by radio netwoik from a Latin American conference in Peru. Other speakers at the first meeting were Bishop Fulton J. Sheen and Will Hays. 
Continuance o( Theme The years since the inaugui'ation of ' Universal ND Communion Sunday have found no cause to lessen the effort to keep alive in this country the religious roots of its founding, and the spiritual origin of the dignity and freedom of .,' man. 
•' Clubs are urged to organize the tradi­tional obsei-vances and to set an example 
* for all Catholics in this vital activity. 
Miami Club Announces Game-Weekend Plans 
The Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami has reserved 500 rooms for ND 
'• Alumni at the Deauville Hotel, Ocean at 6th St., Nov. 26-28. Club President George F. Hero also announced that a pre-game party and victory dance will be held at the hotel. Further inquiries should be directed to George F. Hero, 40 N.E. 75th St. Miami, Florida. 
The new St. Mary's-Notre Dame co-exchange academic program has made the presence of 44 St. Mary's girls on campus a daily occurrence while, at the same time, 38 ND students are taking courses across the "Dixie." See story in right-hand column. 

"Moose" Krause to Escort Special Hawaiian Tour 
University Athletic Director Ed "Moose" Krause will escort a special, two-week group tour to Hawaii from Chicago on January 22. The excursion, known as the "Moose" Krause-WNDU Hawaiian Holiday, includes an inter­national golf tournament, accommoda­tions at Waikiki's Princess Kaiulani Ho­tel,sightseeing,leisure and entertainment. .Alumni and friends of the University are invited to join the toui-. For a color­ful descriptive brochure, write to "Moose" Krause, WNDU, P.O. Box 16, South Bend, Indiana. 
Enrollment Climbs: Co-exchange Program Initiated with S.M.C. 
Growth and innovation are bywords 
at every university in the fall and, in 
its 124th academic year, the University 
of Notre Dame is no exception. 
The enrollment has sti-etched to a 
record high; St. Mary's students are 
taking undergi'aduate courses for the 
first time at the University; there is a 
new stay-hall system of dormitory life; 
an all-time high in the number of faculty 
includes two women; seniors now have 
their own private class-sponsored bar off 
campus; the first group from Innsbruck 
has i-eturned; the academic honor code 
is no longer a novelty but an established 
phase of academic life; the constantly 
receding hours and regulations have been 
loosened another notch by a new dean of 
students; and the traditional Religious 
Bulletin has met its demise under a new 
University chaplain. 
Record-high Enrollment 
This fall the University enrolled 7,155 students, an increase of 173 over a year ago. No part of this gain, however, is attributable to a larger freshman class. Leo Corbaci, University registrar, cited instead ND's declining attrition rate, a low 21% in comparison with the na­tional figure of 40%. 
The overall enrollment includes 5,972 undergraduates, 189 Law School stu­dents and 994 students in the Graduate School. 
Co-Exchange with St. Mary's 
Not included in the enrollment figure are 44 young women taking courses at ND in a new program of academic col­laboration with St. Mary's College. Thirty eight ND students. are taking courses at St. Mary's in the co-exchange program. 
The main purpose is to offer the best of both campuses. St. Mary's girls are taking classes in computing science, ad­vanced Russian, parasitologry. Renais­sance art, French, speech and di-ama, and political science. ND students are registered for St. Mary's courses in ed­ucation, genetics, African history, an­thropology, English writing, play direct­ing and adolescent and educational psy­chology. 
CUu-Hall System Gone The experimental Stay-Ha1l program, which for a long while was but an idea, 
(Continued on rear page) 


DEFCSStVE SAFCTYMAM NICK RASSAS 
m CO/CHCS RAY AND 
PARSCCNfAN 
Undergraduates know it. Alumni never forget it. And the freshmen find it. It's an air that envelops the University for five weekends every fall. One might call it a tinge of the carnival, yet if s an excitement that is Notre Dame's alone. It's felt by all.. . distinguished visitors, coaches, players and students . . . and is amplified by the cheers and yells, the elaborate half-time show, and the many photographers, newspaper reporters, and radio and tele­vision broadcasters. Fall '65 has been this and more. It's 




that 
been a season when crowds have been electrified by the elusive broken-field running of a defensive safetyman, the record-breaking accuracy of 

feeling 
a place-kicking specialist, the rugged two-way play of an All-American guard, and the magical jell of indi­
• 1 1 vidual talent into a championship team. '65 has seen the newest legend of coaching success continued. And '65 has seen a haunt­^ "B"M ing memory from November '64 "remembered" and satis-I 2 1 I I iied. The '65 season has ably taken its part in the tradition 
so well known in the fall. Alumni will never forget it. Un­dergraduates will relive it. And the freshmen have found it. 
ALEX AOASC 
NORTHWESTER S ALEX ACASE AND COACH ARA PARSECHU 
^^^^SSi 
rv^i 


INNOVATION AND GROWTH KEYNOTE UNIVERSITY'S 124tll YEAR 
(Continued from page 1) 
then a much-argued policy, is now a reality. This fall Farley, Alumni and Dillon became the first residence halls at ND to house all four classes. 
The jointly sponsored student-admin­istration program hopefully will couple the enthusiasm of new hall members with the experience of the older men in developing a sincere and genuine com­munal spirit and effort. 
Senior Class Bar Established 
In November an all-senior class bar, fresh from renovation and bearing full administration approval, opened in the basement of the Flamingo, an ofT-caminis restaurant located on Hill Street, South Bend. Ownership of the facility has remained with the restaurant although management of the bar is the responsi­bility of the senior class. Open nightly except Sunday the facility is for seniors and their ^ncsis with strict enforcement made of the Indiana 21-and-over age law. 

Soph Program Expanded 
This fall as one grou]) of the Inns­bruck Year .•Vbroad program returned to resume their studies at ND, another was sailing to man the furthest outpost of the Universitv's academic frontier. 
Satisfied that the experimental year has amply proven the value of the program's place in ND's academic curriculum, the administration has announced the ex­tension of the Sophomore Year Abroad to Angers, Fiance in inGG-19G7, and that plans are under way now for the estab­lishment of similar houses in the Far East and Latin America. 
Curfew Extended 
In his first bulletin as dean of stu­dents, Kev. Josei>h B. Simons, CSC, released a revised curfew for students extending the nonnal curfew. Freshmen will have the nonnal midnight deadline on Friday nights, but will have the option of staying out until 12:30 AM on Saturday nights. Soidiomores will have 1:00 AM permissions on both Fri­day and Saturday nights, juniors 1:30 .\M permissions and seniors 2:00 AM pennissions. The 12:00 AM curfew re­mains in effect Sunday through Thurs­day for all classes. 
A Tradition Put to Rest 
And, finally, this fall, the publication of the RclUjions Bitltefin came to an end. The announcement came from Rev. Joseph Hoffman, CSC, recently ap­pointed University Chaplain who noted that the lielij/ioiis Biitlctiii had become, for the most part, "mere tradition" and not sufficiently practical and useful. Fr. Hoffman explained that student reader­ship was low because there were insuf­ficient number of topics relevant to caminis Christian living to meet the two and three issue-a-week imblieation sched­ule. "Actually," adde<l Fr. Ho/Tman, "the publication had greater popularity be­yond student circles." 
The new University Chaplain in ex­plaining his overall view for student involvement in the chaplain's program stressed the need for individual personal contact between religious and students. "More effective still," said Fr. Hoffman, "is the spiritual influence one student can impart to another." 
.\n indication of this latter means was obvious in the new bulletin. The Ciniliilc. that made its first appearance on campus in early November. It is entirely organized, wiitten and edited by studont.s for the sole purjiose of promoting re­ligion and Christian life on campus. With no intention of establishing a set publication schedule, the editors will puisne a policy similar to that of the late Cardinal O'Hara of publishing the bulletin when the need arises. 

Gathered for their 35th reunion lield on campus during the Northwestem-Notre Dame football game, Oct. 2, are these members, some honorai-y, of ND's 1929-30 championship football teams. Front row, left to right, are: Hugh Devore, Ed Healey, Dert Jletzger, Frank Kersjes, Ed Krause and Frank Leahy. Second row: Paul Host, Ike Voedisch, Larry JIuIlins, Tom Coiiley, Norm Gieeney, Heartly (Hunk) Anderson, Nordy Hoffman, Bob Teilaak and Tom Hickey. Third row; Joe McKcan, John Rogei-s, Tom Jlonahan, Carl Cronin, Don Miller, John McJIanmon, Tom Agnew, Art McMamnon and Jack Saunders. 
Notre  Dame  ALUMNUS  Entered  as  Second  Class  matter  
Vol.  43, No. 5  October 1,1939, at the Post Office,  
November,  1965  Notre Dame, Ind., under the  act  
of August 24, 1912.  

Return Requested 



