The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
Nominees Announced 
(Page 3) 
Athletic Profits (Pase 4) 

Laetare Medalist 
(Page 5) ' 
Spring Football 
(Page 7) 
Commencement 
(Page 32) 

Lourdes Grotto at Notre Dame 
Vol. 19 APRIL. 1941 No. 6 
The 18th 

%lniversal iNotre Qiame S^ght 
Monday, April 21 
93 Local Alumni Clubs in Universal, Simultaneous Meetings. 
A National radio program, NBC Blue Network, 8-8:30 P. M. CST, emanating from the Notre Dame Oub of Chicago's meeting in the Palmer House, featuring: 
Most Rev. Samuel A. Stritch, D.D., Archbishop of Chicago Very Rev. Hugh O'Donnell. C.S.C.', '16, Ph.D., President of Notre Dame Hon. Frank C. Walker, '09, Postmaster General of the United States Mr. Frank Leahy, '31, Director of Athletics of the University of Notre Dame Mr. Clarence E. "Pat" Manion, '22, professor of law of the University The University of Notre Dame Glee Club 
Speakers from the campus, appearing in many of the leading Clubs. Local alumni of prominence honored by their Local Qubs Notre Dame's part In National Defense stressed. Notre Dame's Centennial discussed. Notre Dame's distinguished alumni eulogized. Programs of die Clubs expanded and projected for the ensuing year. 
Notre Dame's contribution to international good will emphasized in meetings outside die United States. Notre Dame's teachings and dieir conformity widi sound American principles reviewed. Notre Dame leadership recc^nized and stimulated. Notre Dame men in the Service uniting under new conditions, and under the qriiitual guidance of die Mili­
tary Delegate, former president of Notre Dame, Most Rev. John F. CXHata, C.S.C., D.D., 'II. The most Universal of the 18 Universal Notre Dame Nights. 
SHonday, <9lpril 21, 1^41 

The Notre Dame Alumnui 
This iiHunin* ii pnblUwd monthly boa October to Jmw, indasiTe (azecvt Jamuy), kr It* Vwtfm^tw «f Wi>ii OmMtt,
"-"Ti " '-rni TTilii-l ir-ir -'nil mr- •"^-•^T-' ITTT il till T '1 Bill. riUi ITIMIL !••••• ••!• iTii 
set at Angut 24, 191Z. Marnbtr of tba Ameriean Ahmmi Coandl and of flw VtOmui <Mlinlli Atmm JAMES E. AMtsiaoNc 75. Editor; WILLUM R. DOOLET. "26, Mm tEShr 
Vol. 19 APRIL, 1941 No.6 
Nominees Continue High Caliber Leadership 
G>mmittees Report Slates Reflecting Apprecwtioii 
of Many Phases of Service by Candidates to Asso­

ciation; Election of Capable Officers Guaranteed 
HONORARY PRESmENT (1 Year) Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, 'H, D.D., Titular Bishop of Milasa, Auxiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy Diocese (unanimous) 
PRESIDENT (1 Year) James E. Deery, '10, Indianapolis, Indiana, attorney Harry P. Kelly, '17, Detroit and Lansing, Michigan, Secretary of State 
FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT (1 Year) Frederick T. Mahaffey, '17, Indianapolis, Indiana Charles L. Vaughan, '14, Lafayette, Indiana 
SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT (1 Year) Clayton G. Leroux, '27, Geveland, Ohio Alfonso A. Scott, '22, Los-Angeles, California 
DIRECTOR (4-Year Term) Rev. Michael A, Moriarty, '10, Mentor Ohio (unanimous) 
The Alumni Office needs hardly to offer any comment on the above nomi­nees, so well have their names been threaded through the AtUMNns in the development of the Association and the Clubs and the Classes they represent. 
If the Committees have sinned a bit on the side of centralization, the Alumni Office offers as extenuation the immin­ence of the Centennial, undoubtedly in­volving a closer and more frequent con­tact with the officers of the Association which their proximity will facilitate. 
Bishop O'Hara's contributions to Notre Dame combine with his pres­ent position of prominence to make him an ideal candidate, rather choice, for the honorary presidency. His spiritual impetus to the Notre Dame man is one of the tangible traditions of Notre Dame, and if his new position renews this spiritual impetus for the many alumni who once responded, it will serve as a .far more than honorary recogni­tion. 
For president, the constitution de­mands that the Committees select sep­arate candidates, and again the Associa­tion finds itself faced with the choice between two outstanding men, either of whom possesses all the necessary qualifications of the office. 
James E. Deery has long been a prom­inent figure in Notre Dame affairs. His high qualities have brought him offices and nominations in the various branches of the Association before. He has had a background of fraternal affiliations which endows him with much that would serve a president in good stead. He is highly regarded .by classmates. Club members, and the alumni generally. 
Harry F. Kelly is now serving in an office and under circumstances which are in themselves a high tribute to the qualities of leadership which he posses­ses. Harry's Notre Dame record is also a matter of some familiarity to alumni, and all of it adds up to a most favor­able picture of the man. He has served Club activities and national activities to the advantage bf both. 
And both president!^ nominees have in common a necessary quality' of to­day's presidency of the Association — a background of rather frequent visits to the campus and acquaintance with the present University administration. 
For iirst vice-president, whose duties involve advisory guidance 'of the Asso-. diation's finances,'the Committees chose excellent candidates. 
Fred Mahaffey, as president of a fi­nance company himself, would certainly have a wealth of ready experience to contribute to the amateur program of financing'whidi has kept the Associa­tion pure but poior. Nor is Fred a stranger to alumni, being a pillar of the Indianapolis Club and a Sequent figure at the Commencement reunions. He is well liked personally. 
Charies L. Vaughan comes from the mucb-sung banks of the Wabash. As at­torney for a number of Catholic insti­tutions, he also is well equipped to sym­pathize with and perhaps to mitigate the involuntary vow of poverty which fre­quentiy accompanies organizations such as ours. Chariey has long been a depend­able factor in whatever project of Club or Class or University might enlist his support. . 
For second vice-president, where the duties lie largely in the realm of the Clubs, the Committees could have gone a long way to find more suitable candi­dates. 
Clayton Leroux, Cleveland, has grown up' into his alumni maturity ini one of' the first and most active of the Clubs. Cleveland has 'often served as a model, and in addition is surrounded by other Clubs of varying sizes and styles. And to top off this fundamental situation^ Clayt has been a constant 'visitor to the campus, and the Club Councils, learn-' ing there the ways of Clubs throughout the jurisdiction. 
Judge AI Scotfs judicial mind mi^^ 
(CoMnned oa Page 19) 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Athletic Net, 1940-41, $211,915.45 
Figure Announced To Dis­pel "Million Dollar" Notion 
Notre Dame's net athletic revenues, made public for the first time recently in a precedent-breaking move, mil ap­proximate ?211,915.45 for the 1940-41 schoolyear. 
The figure was announced by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-presi­dent of the University and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, in connection mth his mid-year report to the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president, in an effort to dispel the popu­lar notion that Notre Dame makes a "a million dollars a year" on the gridiron. The report was delayed until complete 1940 ticket figures were available. 
The estimated net available to the gen­eral fund of the Univerity is based on gross football receipts of ?524,483.75 and budgeted expenses of approximately $312,568.30 for the conduct of the ath­letic program for the schoolyear ending in June. There will be additional income of $40,000 to $50,000 from other sports not included in this figure. Football sup­ports basketball, track, baseball, cross­country, golf, tennis and fencing. Bas­betball is nearly self-supporting. 

Not Out of Proportion 
"I believe the publication of these fig­ures will correct the impression that Notre Dame makes millions out of foot­ball," said Father Cavanaugh. "The fig­ure is not out of proportion to our in­come from all sources, representing but 15 percent of all income available to the general fund. 

"Even so, Notre Dame is not a wealthy school, financially speaking, as universi­ties go, and the opportunity for proposed laboratories, for research, for the devel­opment of the graduate school, for schol­arships to brilliant but needy students, arid for other purposes make our ath­letic revenues appear insufficient. 
"The current athletic revenue is typi­cal of the past 15 years. Athletic profits," he continued, "represent only about half of the $7,000,000,000 spent for additions to and improvements in the physical plant of the school. They would not even pay the cost of maintaining our present plant. They would meet less than half of our faculty payroll. They would cover only about 90 percent of the aid received by students in the form of employment and scholarships. As in most other major schools, our tuition rates are such that a student pays only two-thirds of what it actually costs to educate him." 
Father Cavanaugh pointed out that the Notre Dame endowment is compara­tively small. Actually our total endow­ment is less than $2,000,000. As of 1940. there were 134 colleges and imiversities in the United States with endowments of more than $2,000,000. 
"We have made great progress over the years, but there is still much to be done. We need additional housing facil­ities to handle adequately our self-im­posed limit of 3,000 students. Our need for academic buildings is ever greater." 



LAYDEN IS EULOGIZED 
Good-bye, Elmer — hello, Frank. Layden resigns, Leahy signs. 
Last official act of Elmer as Notre Dame athletic director was to turn over Clashmore Mike, famous Irish terrier mascot, to his successor, Frank Leahy. Frank inherits, besides Mike, 100 hope­ful football candidates, and these the new head man and his assistants are working strenuously with in the spring mud. 
Before leaving for his new post as commissioner of pro football, Elmer was feted at a civic testimonial banquet in South Bend on March 10. Four hundred representatives of South Bend industry, civic and religious life paid tribute to him as speakers wove their remarks around his qualities as a leader,. Ms Christian character and the success which has characterized his elevens. 

Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice-president of the University and chair­man of the board in control of athletics, paid special tribute to Layden as a Christian gentleman, concluding his re­marks with, "We do not remember George Washington as a great military leader, or a diplomat. But rather Wash­ington — the man and his character. Therefore, I salute Elmer Layden — the All-American football player, and Elmer Layden the Ail-American Christian gen­tleman." 
Paul G. Hoffman, president of The Studebaker Corporation, who presided as toastmaster, christened Mr. Layden as the "Fourth Horseman" in the quar­tet of outstanding leaders in athletics. The foursome named by Mr. Hoffman: Amos Alonzo Stagg, University of Chi­cago's "grand old man" and now head football coach at the College of the Paci­fic; Howard Jones, University of South-em California grid mentor; the late Enute K. Rockne, of Notre Dame, and Mr. Layden. 
Other tributes were from Mayor Jesse L Pavey and former Mayor Eli F. See­birt. Layden's response expressed grati­tude to the University, to the alumni, and to South Bend for loyalty through­out his tenure at Notre Dame. Not once in his seven years, he said, did he re­ceive a letter of adverse criticism from a Notre Dame alumnus. He concluded with high praise for his assistants and wished much success to Mr. Leahy and his staff, who were guests at the dinner. 
Frank and his assistants were intro­duced to the entire student body at a reception held in the gymnasium March 
12. Spring practice was launched by the new staff that afternoon, as newsreel men and photographers had their day. 
In his first public address, Frank promised Notre Dame grid fans that they will be "proud of Notre Dame teams, win, lose, or tie" at a father-and­son dinner sponsored by the South Bend Elks. "I have no predictions to make for Notre Dame," declared the new coach. "I prefer not to talk of the future until it becomes a part of the past but I will say that Notre Dame will show up for the kick-off of every game and will be in there pitching, and digging until the final whistle. Yon will be proud of Notre Dame teams, win, lose, or tie." 
ART EXHIBITIONS 

Preparatory school artists in mid-western states will exhibit several hun­dred pieces of art at the sixth annual secondary school art exhibition held April 16 to 30 under the sponsorship of the Notre Dame Art Department. Prof. Stanley S. Sessler is in charge. More than 40 parochial and public schools and academies will be repre­sented. 
Much praise has been accorded Prof. Sessler for his oil portrait of Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., former president of Notre Dame. The portrait was among 12 pictures Prof. Sessler ex­hibited in the Hoosier Salon Patrons' Association display in the Hoosier Art Gallery in Chicago. The portrait has been exhibited in Indianapolis also. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 



William T. Walsh Receives Laetare Medal 
59th Recipient Is Eminent Writer of His­tory, Poetry and Drama; is Professor in Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart 
William Thomas Walsh, of Larchmont, 
N. Y., is the • 1941 recipient of the Laetare Medal, bestowed annually since 1883 by the University of Notre Dame upon an outstanding member of the Catholic laity. The announcement was made on Laetare Sunday by the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. 
As a professor of English at Manhat­tanville College of the Sacred Heart in New York City and as an author of sev­eral works which insure him a preemi­nent position among Catholic historians. Professor Walsh became the 59th win­ner of the annual award. 
Professor Walsh has enjoyed a varied career, beginning as a newspaper re­porter in 1911 and continuing in that capacity until 1918. During these years he served successively on the editorial staffs of the Waterbury Republican and American the Hartford Times, and the Philadelphia Public Ledger. 
Turning to academic pursuits in 1918, 
he became an instructor in the Hartford 
(Conn.) public high school for one year. 
From 1919 to 1933 he was head of the 
English department at the Roxbury 
(Mass.) school, and since 1933 has been 
a member of the faculty of Manhattan­" ville College of the Sacred Heart. 
Isabella of Spain, a biography pub­lished in 1930, was Professor Walsh's first book and attracted immediate inter­est as a truly authoritative treatment of the famous historical character. 
This was followed in 1935 by a Catho­lic novel. Out of the Wkirlvnnd and by another historical biography, Philip II, in 1937. A volume of Professor Walsh's poems was published in 1939 and fol­lowed a play. Shekels, released in 1937. During this period his literary output also included numerous contributions to magazines in the literary and his­torical fields. 
Professor Walsh was bom in Water­bury, Conn., Sept. 11, 1891, and re­ceived an A.B. degree from Yale Uni­versity in 1913 and a Litt.D. from Ford­ham University in 1933. He is married, the father of five children, and resides at 110 Beach Ave., Larchmont, N. Y. 
of merit and as an incentive to greater achievement, the Laetare Medal award originated in the ancient papal custom of bestowing the Golden Rose on a mem­ber of the Italian Catholic nobility on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent. Its modem counterpart was inau­gurated at Notre Dame in 1883 when the Very Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C, University founder, bestowed the first medal on the late John Gilmore Shea, eminent Catholic historian. 
Medalists of previous years include prominent statesmen, artists, writers, financiers, soldiers, scientists, architects, philosophers, jurists, orators, and econo­mists. 
In announcing the name of the medal­ist for 1941, Father O'Donnell paid him the following tribute: "Like John Gil­more Shea, recipient of the first Laetare Medal in 1883, Dr. William Thomas Walsh has distinguished himself as an' author, chiefly in -the field of history. His genius for making the past live again has always been controlled by a scholarly devotion to truth. Because of Dr. Walsh's unusual achievements as a Catholic educator and author, the Uni­versity of Notre Dame honors him with the Laetare Medal for 1941." 
Presentation of the mjedal to Professor Walsh; the 59th recipient, will take place at some future date not yet determined. 

Given by Notre Dame as a recognition WilUmB Tliomas Wabh 
Holy Cross Sisters' Centennial 
St. Mary's College to Have Centennial in 1944 
(In view of the many ties of many kinds which have, over nearly 100 years, hound together St. Mary's and Notre Dame, the "Alumnus" is especially pleased to present this article on the cen­tennial of the Sisters of Holy Cross. We are sure that innumerable readers will be interested.—Eds.) 
One hundred years of service as teach­ers, nuns, and social service workers is the record of the Cong^regation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, whose mother-house is situated at St. Mary's Convent, just north of South Bend, Ind. Founded in Le Mans, France, in 1841 by the Rev. Basil Moreau, the community sent four Sisters in 1843 to Notre Dame, in the wilderness of northern Indiana, where they assisted the priests and brothers of the Order in the establishing of the now-famous University of Notre Dame. The following year the Sisters opened their own school at Bertrand, Mich., four miles north of Notre Dame. 
Sisters Taught Indians 

Beginning with children of the Potta­wattomie Indians and settlers' young­sters, the little mission school grew and opened branches at Mishawaka and Fo­kagon. In 1855 the community moved to its present location on the banks of the St. Joseph Eiver, just west of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. 
Today the Sisters of Holy Cross comprise a community of 1,500. mem­bers. They conduct three four-year fully accredited liberal arts colleges, eight hospitals, nearly a. hundred secondary and preparatory schools, including the largest parish sdiool in New York City, and have two missions in India, in the Dacca district of Bengal, St. Mary's Convent at Tomiliah and St. Anthony's Convent at Nagari. 
St. Mary's, Notre Dame, was the first college founded by the Sisters, the out­growth of the mission school at Bertrand, It claims the proud distinction- of being the first Catholic woman's college to grant degrees, the. date being 1898. To­day, its graduates are found in every State in the United States and on every continent. St. Mary-of-the-Wasatch Col­li e is the second'in point of time, hav­ing been founded at Salt Lake City in 1926. In 1935 Dunbarton College of Holy Cross, at Washington, D. C, became the 
third. 
The eight hospitals conducted by the Sisters are Mount Carmel, Columbus, Ohio; St. Joseph's, South Bend, Ind.; St. Mary's Infirmary, Cairo, 111.; St. John's Hospital, Anderson, Ind.; Our Savior's Hospital, Jacksonville, lU.; Holy Cross, Salt Lake City, Utah; St. Agnes', Fresno, Calif.; St. Alphonsus', Boise, Idaho. 
Formal celebration of the centennary will begin on May 3, feast of the Find­ing of the True Cross, and will continue until Sept. 29, the anniversary of the day in 1841 when the first four postu­lants of the Order received the religious habit. 
In addition to special emphasis which will mark, the commencement exercises in the three colleges and the various school conducted by the Order, the year will ba marked by a series of publica­tions covering the history and growth of the Order, and the laying of the comer-stone of the Centennial Library on the grounds of the first college of the Sis­ters, at the mother-house of the Order, St. Mary's, Notre Dame, money for which has already been contributed by the alumnae of the college in honor of the Sisters. 
Sister M. Madeleva, president of St Mary's College, has released the an­noimcement that plans for the construc­tion of the new library are now being completed and that work on the build­ing will probably bepn soon. 

Need Two Buildings 

As ori^ally planned, the building would have contained both the much-needed library and an adequate audi-­toriimi, but after mature consideration it was decided that the needs of the coUegfe would be better met if two build­ings, rather than one, were erected. 
In discussing the matter. Sister Made­leva pointed out that this division also permits the project to commemorate two centennials — that of the founding of the Community in 1841 and that of the founding of the school at Bertrand in 1844. It is hoped that within that period of three years" encompassed by the "Greater Centennial Celebration" the entire project will be realized. 
As at present visualized, the plan for 

the second building calls for studios and 
classrooms for the speech, music, arts 
and crafts of the theater departments of 
the college, as well as an auditorium 
capable of caring adequately for the 
needs of the entire community. 
According to present plans, the new 

library will stand on the slightly ele­
vated portion of the campus, directly 
nortii of Lake Marian and east of Le 
Mans Hall. The land will be terraced to 
the general level of the campus and one 
of the attractive features planned is a 
small reading garden, where stone 
beinches will permit students to study 
out of doors in the beauty of nature 
which charactertizes St. Mary's campus. 
The bnildiug is in French chateau style, which combines and harmonizes the history and traditions of the Com-. munity, with its beginnings in France, and the other buildings on the grounds. There are to be three floors and a mez­
zanme. 

Ground Floor Plan 

The ground floor will contain the re­serve-book room, seating a hundred per­sons, work rooms, lockers, and storage space. Above it, on the main floor, will be the general reading room, the card catalogue, the periodical room, the desk and offices of the librarian and the staff. More than a hundred persons can be seated at desks and tables in the main reading room, and the periodical room will have a capacity of approximately the same number. On the mezzanine, above the main floor, there will be pro­vision for the placing of paintings and tapestries and cases for the housing of exhibits of rare books and manuscripts. 
Alcoves and rooms for special pur­

poses will serve as memorial tributes of 
alumnae and friends of the school. 
The third floor will be divided into smaller rooms for various projects. There will be rooms for seminars, in which small informal groups of students and teachers may have round-table dis­cussions. On this floor, also, there will be accommodation for creative and research workers. 
Jens Frederic Larson, architect of Dartmouth College and advisory archi­tect for the American Association of Collies, is in charge of the architec­tural plans for the library and land­scaping. Mr. Larson is not a commer­cial architect, but confines his work en­tirely to the .field of college building. Among the colleges for which he has designed buildings aref the International House at University of Paris and the Universty of Cairo abroad, and the . Institate of Advanced Study at Prince­
ton. 

The Notre Dome Alumnus 



Leahy Takes Over In Spring Practice 
Plans Certain Innovations Based Upon Fundamentals of Rockne; Squad Is Smaller; Prokop and Ziemba Are Shifted. 
By Joseph S. Petritz, "32 
Any change in coaching administra' tions is bound to bring some change in coaching methods. It may bring differ­ences in football philosophies. Bat when one Notre Dame man replaces another Notre Dame man, it's a good bet that the basic lessons taught by Knute Rockne will abide. 
•Now that Elmer Layden has left to rule the National Professional league with an iron hand, and to give the play-for-pay boys the dressing they've been needing for their front window, Prank Leahy, 32-year-old graduate of the class of '31, regular tackle with the 1929 na­tional champions, and the Cinderella Man of Boston College's sensational rise of the past two years is making changes on Cartier practice field. 
Both Layden and Leahy believe that Bockne, the showman and play inventor, would have altered his system, as of 1930. It is a matter of record that he contemplated certain changes for the 1931 season that his death in March of that year made impossible of fulfillment. Rockne said, "You either progress or retrogress — you don't stand still." 
Layden developed the weak side at­tack, using reverses off the framework Rockne left and that'he probably would have developed himself to meet over-shifting defenses. Layden ran more . plays to the left than was customary under Rockne, bringing out the running talents of Mike Layden, Bunny McCor­mick, Lou Zontini, Steve Juzwik, and others during his seven years. He in­vented plays to meet shifting defenses. He revised blocking assignments on standard plays for the same reason. He departed, as did almost all Notre Dame coaches^ from the traditional seven-and­box or seven-and-diamond of Rock's day, using a 6-2-2-1, and last season, on occar sion, a 5-3-2-1. 
Leahy made other and more drastic changes in offense at Boston College, and in the few outdoor drills the Irish 

The footiwll coaches: Laft to 
SPRING GAME 
The date of the annaal Vanity-Old Timers' spring football game was, at press time, still a question. Snnday, May 4, was frequently mentioned. 
have been able to hold outdoor this spring. These will be considered pres­ently. 
Blocking, tackling, courage, spirit, speed, and savvy — the Rockne watch­words — are still the hallmarks at Notre Dame. They were under Layden; they will be, we promise, under Leahy. The 32-year-old successor to Layden has complimented the latter on the ground­work he and his assistants left. 
We may be wrong in this size-up, but it seems that where both men believe strongly in blocking and tackling as the prime ingredients of the- game, Layden was inclined to place additional empha­sis on tackling, Leahy on blocking. Leahy has made some startling contribu­tions to the Notre Dame system at B.C., yet in a sense he does not relish the idea of wearing the Rockne mantle. "This position carries a challenge that we are happy to accept," he has said, "and we shall do our best to carry on in the Rockne tradition, because that is the right tradition. But we know we shall never contribute any small bit to foot­ball that Rockne contributed. The days of undefeated Notre Dame teams are over, and we shall be very happy even to come close to Elmer Layden's re­markable record of 47 victories, 13 de­feats, and 3 ties over his seven-year period here. 
"I promise only that you Notre Dame men will be proud of your teams, in vic­

ritkl. Bill CanMy, Ed McKener, 

Frank Leahy, Jdkm Dnu*,' Joe McArdle. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
tory or defeat, just as you have al­ways been proud of them. The 1941 team has spirit and courage, and it will fight every minute of every game." 
There you have it. Leahy knows the tradition he is trjnng to preserve. He knows the success of Layden's teams. On the other side of the picture, Joe Boland said it all at the squad dinner this spring when he said, "Leahy and his assistants will teach you to do things differently from the way we taught you. That does not mean they will be wrong or that we were wrong. The thing for you men to remember is that there is more than one way to do a thing right. 

Interesting Football 

Layden promised interesting football, and you got it — notably against North­western in 1934, Ohio State and South-em California in 1935, Northwestern in 1936, Southern California in 1937, Army, Minnesota, and Northwestern in 1938. Georgia Tech, Southern Methodist, and Southern. California in 1939; niinois and Georgia Tech in 1940. Yes, South-em California won the 1939 game, 20 to 12, but we were never prouder of the team that season than we were that day . . . which is another story. 
There are those who say Leahy's teams will be even more interesting. Leahy does not say so himself, for he has great admiration for Layden and the latter's record, and great personal hu­mility. Only time will tell. 
We have hinted at a difference in football philosophies, when we men­tioned the emphasis placed, respectively, on blocking and tackling by Leahy and Layden. Leahy was Jimmy Crowley's line coach for a year at Michigan State and for six years at Pordham. The Rams' Seven Blocks of Granite were able to keep Fordham undefeated, ex­cept for two games, over a three-year period. They were a great defensive iunit, which is not to say that Crowley IS essentially a defensive coach. We don't know the picture — material, schedule, weather conditions and the rest well enough to form an opinion. We do know that Layden and Crowley are regarded as successful coaches. 
But, given a chance to express his own ideas at Boston College, Leahy, also a successful coach, made several in­novations. Some changes were junked almost at the outset. "We'll keep trying new things here at Notre Dame, and we'll be the first to admit their failure if they are impractical," Leahy has said. "At the same time, some of our devices have already proved their merit, and they will be used." 
Leahy uses some plays from the re­discovered and notorius "T-formation," to the glee of the spectators. But he says that the "T" itself isn't what makes the play succeed or fail. It goes back to fundamentals and material, he says. He does not use the "T" as Rockne used it in the early days, with the quarterback handling the ball, but with direct passes to the halfback or fullback for quick-opening plays, for bullet passes, and for reverses. 
While the Irish still operate from a balanced, line, the line shift Leahy has introduced carries with it the constant threat that a guard or tackle is going to move to the "off" side of the center. 

SHORT STORY CONTEST 
To encourage the talent of young writers The Atlantic maga­zine has announced a §1,000 prize award for the best short story sub­mitted by Sept. 1, 1941, by a writer in the twenties. (All those who will have had their twentieth, but not their thirtieth, birthday by the entry date.) Rules are few: Length of story -^ 2,500 to 6,000 words; stories should be typewrit­ten double-spaced, if possible, and written one side of paper only. Winner will be announced within two months of close of contest and prize story will be published in Dec, 1941, issue of The Atlantic. -A.ddress manuscripts to The Atlan­tic Short Story Contest, 8 Arling­ton street, Boston, Mass. 

unbalancing the line. The purpose of this manuever is partly psychological. Leahy believes that the spectators like motion and that, if they like to see backs shifts, they also like to see linemen in motion. He says it makes the forwards feel like they're more a part of the offense. 
The main advantages are that the linemen take their crouching positions just a second before the ball is snapped, and they do not tire as rapidly as if they crouched for five or six seconds on each play; and the linemen get better block­ing angles, giving* the defense less time in which to adjust itself. 
There are other differences, too — the "T" Leahy uses, whether it precedes the shift or not, is spread more than the traditional Notre Dame formation, en­abling backsto get to their blocking as­signments faster on quick-opening plays; the signal-calling method in the huddle is different from the old one, with names supplanting numbers to a large extent; there are no calisthenics in spring drills. 
but plenty to come in the fall; the team will wear gold helmets and sweat sox instead of natural leather helmets and white sweat sox; and there have been changes in personnel. 
Most interesting shift in early drills took Joe Prokop, of Cleveland, from right half to fullback. Prokop, a senior next autumn, could not get anywhere at right half, despite his 190 pounds, 6­foot 1-inch frame, and low hurdler's speed. He seemed to lack confidence. Running with the first team at fullback, he has stood out in every scrimmage, and possibly poise will come. He still has to learn to back up the line and to execute his new blocking assignments, but his running is definitely better. Ber­nie Crimmins, understudy to Capt. Milt Piepul last autumn, is again available at fullback also. 
Wally Ziemba, husky sophomore right tackle of 1940, has been moved to cen­ter, where he is catching on fast. Bob Osterman was graduated and Johnny McHale signed with the Detroit Tigers. Tom Brock has the starting call at this writing, injuries having held him back last year. 
Steve Bagams, No. 2 right half, is gone with the draft, but Steve Juzwik, last year's high scorer, will be available. A later issue will carry more informa­tion on personnel. 
Smaller Squad Advantages 

There are certain obvious advantages in a smaller squad than Notre Dame has been carrying in recent years, and Leahy will work with a more compact group than those of the Rockne, Htmk Ander­son, and Layden eras. It is hoped that those iron men of the B team who served only as punching bags for the varsity, getting very little game competition, -will strengthen the interhall system, which should reach new heights. Those who are cut, through lack of size or ability, will be able to compete in games every week with and against men of their own talent and heft. It will still be true that everyone who wants to play football, and can pass the necessary physical ex­amination, will be able to play. The day of the disgruntled seventh or eighth stringer will pass. 
.A.S for the natural disappointment of the hoys not surviving the cut, one of them said to your writer, "Yes, I'm dis­appointed, but I still think Frank Leahy is the greatest coach in the country." 
First look at his innovations will come in the game with the Old Timers in the stadium. The date was moved into May because of the inclemency of the weather during March and early April. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS . . . . 
CAHILL APPOINTED 
M. Robert Cahill, '34, secretary for seven years to Elmer Layden, became assistant business manager of athletics on April 1. His appointment was an­nounced by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University. 
Before enrolling at Notre Dame in 1930, Mr. Cahill was secretary to regis­trars of the 1928-30 era. Rev. William 
A. Carey, C.S.C, and Rev. "William H. 
M. Robert Cahill 

Molony, C.S.C, and to Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C, then editor of The Ave Maria. In his final semester as a student he joined Mr. Layden. In his new posi­tion Mr. Cahill directs the sale of tickets to all athletic events. 
While secretary to Mr. Layden, Mr, Cahill handled between 40,000 and 50,000 letters, including one from a priest in Tanganyika, British East Af­rica. That priest listened to games by short wave radio at 2 a.m. Mr. Cahill recalled that after the sensational 18-13 victory over Ohio State in 1935, corre­spondence hit an all-time high. Four or five extra secretaries worked day and night for ten days to handle the major share of letters. 
Coach Layden's correspondence ex­tended to such points as Cuba, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico,, Australia, and East Africa. He received but one letter written in a foreign language, that, for­tunately in Spanish, a subject Mr. Cahill had studied in his commerce course. The young secretary replied in Spanish. Mr. Layden answered every query and letter which contained a return address. 
Many unusual requests flooded the athletic director's office for such objects as buttons, pencil stubs, and similar items used by 'Mr. Layden. The Irish coach was also on the receiving end of various oddities, including a shillalah from an Irish association at Pittsburgh, rabbits' feet, not to mention innumerable diagrammed "sure-fire" football plays. 
Mr. Cahill, former assistant editor of the Juggler, humor publication, was business manager of the Glee Club. 
Mr. Cahill succeeded Herbert E. Jones, '27, who had followed J. Arthur Haley, '26, as business manager of ath­letics. Mr. Haley is now director of pub­lic relations for the University. Mr. Ca­hill is married to Mary Cass, formerly of the Alumni Office. Try to tell that combination a football ticket story they haven't heard before. 
McELROY WATERCOLORS A memorial exhibition of watercolors by the late Wilbur J. McElroy, a gradu­ate in 1926 of the Notre Dame Depart­ment of Architecture, was presented at the Wightman Art Gallery in the Uni­versity Library for several weeks before April 10. Mr. McElroy, upon his graduation from the University, was employed in an architect's office in New York, whence he branched into commercial advertis­ing. He soon took up further studies at the Grand Central School of Art in New York. . Later, with his brother Paul, '29, a graduate of the Deparment of Art, he went abroad to Europe and Dalmatia, where he did considerable painting. Prom there he went to Tahiti and did addi­tional paintings, some of which are shown in the mem'orial exhibition. He lived a great deal in boats and did much of his painting in them. 
The work 'of Mr. McElroy, while at­tending the University, was exceedingly fine, and upon his graduation, Ralph Adams Cram, one of the nation's lead­ing architects, declared his work to be "perfect." 
Of the exhibition, Francesco Mon­tana, A.D.G.F., instructor in architec­ture at the University, said the foUoW7 ing: "Mr. McElroy's watercolors show his complete understanding and grasp of his medium, along with color compo­sition and excellent draughtsmanship. He has been able to portray time, place and atmosphere, a quality very often lacking in other artists. 

"In his Tahiti watercolors,' the artist has used the white paper very effectively and in places has taken advantage of the rough texture to obtain a sparkling effect through the use of a dry brush. There is no working-over which would destroy the natural clarity of the color. Most watercolors are painted so full of color —r with color in the light, color in the half-tones, color in the shadows, and color in the skies — that they become just so much paint. Contrasts or oppo­sites in color are needed as well as con­trasts in black and white." 
NEW MOVIE MADE Another motion picture, "The Story of Notre Dame," is being filmed on the Notre Dame campus in preparation for the centennial celebration that will begin in June, 1942. This production which will have editions in both English and Spanish will cover every phase of University life, with particular attention to the intellectual, recreational and re­ligious activity. Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C, chairman of the centennial radio and movie committee, is in charge. 
The Spanish edition, which will have a Spanish narration written by Eduardo Alcayaga, a graduate student from Chile, will be shown in South America this summer by the Pax Romana, a group of Catholic students and teachers who will travel to the Latin-American countries in July. In the group will be several students and .faculty members from Notre Dame, including Rev. Wil­liam F. Cunningham, C.S.C, director of the fatuity, who is also in charge of production of the new film. 
The picture will be shot on 1,600 feet of film and will be completed by June. The final edition will run for 44 minutes. Campus scenes are already being filmed. 
Others working on the movie are Rev. John Gallagher, C.S.C, in charge of continuity; Rev. Michael Mathis, 
C.S.C.j
 technical adviser; and Stanley 

S.
 Sessler, head of the Art Department, in charge of photography. 


Recall Great Fire of 1879 
University Rebuilt in Six Months; Generous Aid Given 
One Sunday morning last winter the Main building was filled with smoke. In thick gray swirls it came into the halls on the ground floor; in a dense gray doud it eddied about the heads of pass­ing students. At last an irritated sopho­more stopped, coughed, and thoughtfully studied the wall through which the smoke issued. Around him gathered a little g^roup. One suggested the building might be on fire. Another took up a fire extin­guisher. All went snooping for the flames. 
A little while later members of the South Bend fire department rushed out to the campus, into the smoking building. Outside, part of the student body lounged on fire engine fenders and waved to friends who casually leaned out of smoking windows and waved back. Pretty soon the firemen came out of the building and said the fire was over. As the engines pulled away, little knots of students gathered and discussed the smoke and remembered stories of the great fire of 1879. 
It was 11 o'clock of a late April morn­ing of that year that one of the minims saw smoke pouring from the dome. Soon the word "Fire!" raced across the cam­pus and in a few minutes a bucket brigade was swinging water to the roof, water tanks on the upper stories were dumping their contents and steam pipes were forcing water up the six flights. 
At the same time frantic telegrams sped to South Bend. The Western Union manager pick up the first, hopped on his horse and buggy and went careening through the streets to announce the news. The populace glanced to the north, confirmed the message, spent the next three-quarters of an hour getting the fire engine to move. 
They arrived on he campus in time to save a few of the smaller buildings. In the church steeple 30 or 40 bells were clanging away; from the upper stories of the Main building issued beds, pillows, lamps, table's, chairs and P. J. Dough­erty, a student. Nuns rushed out, carry­ing away a few of the valuables saved. Senator Leeper, a precious book beneath his arm, managed to dodge a falling cornice. 
A slight wind pushed the conflagration away from Sacred Heart' Church and Gr^ori paintings. But in the Main building, flames licked up a collection of skeletons, ate the supports away from the statue of the Blessed Virgin and sent it tumbling into the well. Then they jumped over to the Old Men's Home, to the Music Hall, where they foimd 18 pianos, and finally to the Minims' Hall. 
By three o'clock that afternoon the fire was under control and Father Corby, president of the University, announced to the students that school was over. That night Washington Hall was turned into the "Hotel de Europe" and students sat long in the dark, looking at the smouldering embers, singing "The Old Home Isn't What It Used to Be." 
The next day the editor of the South Bend Daily Herald mourned, "Doomed, doomed, O beauteous Notre Dame! Thy massive walls are crushed and low." Not so gloomy was Father Corby. He herded the students into the Church, handed seniors their degrees, told the rest to come back next September when a new and greater Notre Dame would await them. Then he went to the ruins to see how much he would have to rebuild. 
A quarter of a million dollars smoked away at his feet. The Lemmonier and University libraries were thoroughly baked, along with scientific apparatus and graduation diplomas. 
For 21 days the ruins smoked. Daring the same time letters and telegrams poured into the University, bearing of­fers of financial assistance. Newspapers in all parts of the United States, in Eng­land and Prance, carried the story. The ruined halls heard themselves called the "center of education and culture in the West" and "the pride of the West." One lady wrote that she had dismissed her hired girl, would send the money saved to help build a new Notre Dame. Civil War General Sherman telegraphed from Washington that he would send army cots for use of the students if school was to be continued. At the same time a rail­road ticket agent wired that student rates home would be cut in half. A letter was received from St. Mary's Academy bearing sympathy and $200. 
Through that spring and all through the summer the walls of Notre Dame arose again. So hastily, in fact, did the workmen put them up that one day, after three walls had arisen, the workers turned around and found a grove of 20 cedars growing where the south wall was destined. In their haste they had overlooked the trees, had almost left a thicket growing in the future office of the president. The grove was soon eradi­cated and Father Corby's promise was fulfilled by September.—Don Heltzel in the SCHOLASTIC 
Spotlight Alumni . 
Thomat J. Hoban, '18 

Directors of Chicago Title and Trust Company at their meeting in January elected Thomas J. Hoban, LL.B., '18, vice-president of the company. Tom joined the legal department of the Title and Trust Company in 1924 and for the two years previous to his new appoint­ment he was general attorney. He is also president of the Kane County Title Company, Geneva, 111. 
Tom was bom in Dixon, 111. He en­listed in 1917 in the United States Naval Reserve forces and received a lieuten­ant's commission. In 1922 he married Mildred E. McGrath and is the father of two sons and a daughter. 
Judge Hoban resides in Elgin, 111. He was formerly judge of the City Court there, acting imder special appointment from Governor Homer. He is a member of the American, Illinois, Chicago, arid Kane County Bar Associations, Ameri­can Le^on, Navy Club. Knights of Co­lumbus, Notre Dame Clubs of the Fox River Valley and of Chicago, Elks, Law Club and University Club. He is also president of the Elgin Country Club. 
BY JOSEPH S. PETRI7Z, '32 

ATHLETICS 
TRACK 
A gratifying indoor track campaign, the first under William P. (T-Bone) Mahoney, came to a close with star rep­resentatives of the squad forming a fine background for Greg Rice's world rec­ord two-mile performance of 8 -.51.1 (de­tails elsewhere in this section) in the annual Chicago Daily Netvs relays March 22. 
When John P. Nicholson died April 2, 1940, he left Mahoney a fine crop of sophomores, perhaps the most potent in Notre Dame's entire history. Bill Ma­honey has shown conclusively that he knows what to do with them. As a mat­ter of fact, handling the outdoor squad unofficially last spring, he uncovered coaching talent that was suspected only by those who had been close to the sit­uation. 
The Irish of 1941 were beaten only by Indiana's Big Ten champions, 56 2/3 to 47 1/3, on Indiana's track at Bloom­ington. They overwhelmed Michigan State, 84 to 20, and Marquette, 79 to 
25. It was the first defeat in 16 starts for the Hilltoppers. The Irish regained the Central Collegiate conference indoor title, which Marquette had won last year, nosing out an able and well-coached Pitt outfit, 49 points to 43. It was the second largest winning total in C.C.C. history. Notre Dame took third in the Butler relays behind Michigan and In­diana, and the Irish stood out in the Chicago relays. 
With that brief team summary, we'll turn to individual accomplishments. Jim Delaney, soph shot put ace from San Francisco, Calif., is comparatively small, as weight men go, but he cracked the all-time Notre Dame indoor mark, the gym record, and the Marquette meet record with a throw of 51 feet 1% inches. He won the Centrals at 49 feet 6% inches, a new meet mark, beating Don Elser's old record by seven inches. Cliff Brosey, unable to compete because of a weak leg, saw his Notre Dame in­door record of 49 feet 10% inches, shat­tered by more than a foot . . . and he had set it only last year! Delaney was beaten only once, by Archie Harris, of Indiana, in the Illinois relays. He later defeated Harris twice. 
Keith O'Rourke, Warren, Ohio, sopho­more, was undefeated in collegiate com­petition, although he sprained his take­off ankle in his second appearance while setting an Illinois relays record of 6 feet GVi inches. The business-like Ohioan took second in the Chicago relays to Mel Walker, former Ohio star, clearing 6:5 to Walker's 6:7. He captured the Illinois and Butler relays titles, and the Centrals championship. His worst jump, six feet, won against Marquette. Keith didn't bother removing his sweat suit for that one, and his ankle was bothering him badly at the time. 
•Ray Roy, who has already taken his spot as one of Notre Dame's greatest quarter-milers, successfully defended his Three-C title in 50.6 seconds, two-tenths of a second faster than his winning time on Michigan State's faster track last year. Roy again anchored the winning Notre Dame mile relay team. The Irish quartet of Gene Fehlig, Dick Tupta, George Schiewe, and Roy ran an unof­ficial 3:20 in a special match against Michigan, the Wolverines winning in 3:19.7, fastest recorded indoor time of the' year. Roy's only defeat at 440 yards came at the hands of Indiana's Roy Cochran, world indoor record holder. Gene Littler, great Nebraska runner, finished ahead of Roy in the Illinois relays 300-yard event. Schiewe, a heady, game, long-striding junior, has shown steady improvement. Both he and Roy have been clocked close to 49 seconds with the relay team. Roy, like Schiewe, is a long-geared gentleman. So is Feh­lig, for that matter, and the quartet should really hit the glory road on the gentle outdoor turns. Fehlig will com­pete in both track and golf, stringing along with the golfers when there's a conflict. 
Oliver Hunter, III, Erie, Pa., sopho­more, is our personal man of destiny for 1943. The trim little Pennsylvanian did as well during the indoor season as Greg Rice did during his sophomore indoor competition. He ran close to 4:15 for the mile with the four-mile team. He was barely beaten by Tom Quinn, of Michi­gan Normal, in 4:16.5 for the C.C.C. title, but came back to take the two-mile in a creditable 9:35.5. His best win­ning mile time was 4:22.4 against Mar­quette and Michigan State. Prank Con­forti, another streamlined sophomore with lots of heart, tied with Hunter against Marquette, ran third in the Cen­trals, and gave Hunter a good battle in the Michigan State meet. • Completing the four-mile team are Tony Maloney, promising sophomore two-miler, and Wilbur Riordan, husky soph half-mile specialist who won against Marquette's Gene Grochowski in 1:57.8 — faster than any of the gym habitues believed he could produce. 
John Nicholson's boy. Bill, who looks, walks, and competes like his Dad, is an­other stand-out sophomore. He was fifth in indoor scoring with 22 points, getting them in the high hurdles and high jump. Young Nick made his debut with a meet record of 7.7 seconds in the 60-yard highs against Michigan State, his best time of the year. He has cleared 6 feet 3 inches in the high jump. He also won the highs against Marquette and took second against Indiana, tying for second behind O'Rourke in the high jump in both meets. He tied for fourth in the high jump in the Butler relays and Cen­trals, going unplaced in the BUnois relays. 
With Bob Saggau injured most of the season, Jay Gibson, a sophomore, and Bill Buenger, senior star, have taken most of the sprint laurels. Buenger turned in a 6.3 performance to win against Indiana, while Saggau made the same time in his trial heat against Mich­igan State, losing to Gibson's 6.4 in the finals. Sa^au's pulled muscle is round­ing into shape, and the Irish sprinters should be a dangerous quantity outdoor. 
Improvement of Joe Prokop, junior from Cleveland, as a low hurdler was one of the more refreshing aspects of the season. Prokop, shifted from right half to fullback, has deserted the cinders for the. chalk stripes, and he seems to be headed for No. 1 ranking with the gridders. 
Frank Sheets, senior, who rates the designation as "hardest working" man on the squad, found the sprint field too imposing and moved his talents to the broad jump where he won against Mar­quette with a leap of 21 feet 2% inches. 
Ezra Smith and Jack Wietoff, pole vaulters; Bill Dillon, low hurdler; Bill Bogan, two-miler; Herky Bereolos, Ed Sullivan, and Wally Ziemba, weight men; Bob Garvey, broad jumper: and Capt. Joe Olbrys and Tupta, half-milers; also did their share of scoring indoor. Coach Mahoney believes he has a stand­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
out javelin tosser in Bob Vicars, sopho­more from Pontiac, 111. 
The outdoor card calls for the follow­ing appearances: 
April 25-26—Drake and Penn relays 
May 3—Michigan at Notre Bame 
10—^Michigan State at East Lansing 
17—Marquette at Milwaukee 
23—^Wisconsin at Madison 
31—Indiana State meet at Bloomington 

June S—C.C.C. meet at Milwaukee 
20-21—N.C.A.A. meet at Palo Alto 

FENCING 
Election of Louis P. Peck, Montpelier, Vt., sabreman, as 1942 captain at the annual squad banquet climaxed another successful fencing season, a season es­pecially efficacious in view of its dolor­ous prospects. The Irish won 7 out of 9 matches, including a lY to 10 victory over Chicago's Big Ten champions. It was Chicago's only defeat in 25 starts between Notre Dame's 1936 victory and the 1941 upset. The Maroons were tied by Notre Dame and Ohio State in 1937, and they have won six straight Big Ten titles. 
Eussell Harris, Little Rock, -Aj-k., and Capt. Jack Gaither, Louisville, Ky., both seniors who fought in foil and epee, were the bright and shining lights of the year. Harris set a new all-time Notre Dame record of 39 yictories against 11 defeats, as compared with Kevin Kehoe's former record of 38% victories and 13% defeats. Harris and Gaither each won 22 and lost -5 in foil, giving them a tie for the most foil victories in a single season. The Irish finished in a tie with Dartmouth for 13th in the N.C.­
A.A. tournament at Columbus, with 9 points. The Irish were surpassed by Washington, Chicago, Michigan State, and Wisconsin, all of whom had been defeated in the regular season. This only goes to prove that tournaments don't prove everything, if anything. 
The season's record follows: 
Notre Dame, 15; Wisconsin, 12 Notre Dame. 17: Ghicaso, 10 Notre Dame, 19%; Manjuette, 7% Ohio.State, 15; Notre Ikame. 12 Notre Dame, 15%; Marquette, 11% Notre Dame, 14; Michigan State, 13 Illinois, 14%; Notre Dame, 12% Notre Dame, 14; Cincinnati, 3 Notre Dame, 13: Washington U., 4 

GREG RICE 
Notre Dame men combined forces to make the March 22 Chicago Daily News relays the best in the history of the an­nual event Jim Keams, '34, who han­dles many of the arrangements for the biggest indoor track show in the mid­west in his capacity as a writer for the News, provided a capacity crowd of 11,000 fans with the finest field ever to compete in these precincts. 
Greg Rice, '39, Mr. Perpetual Motion, furnished the climax of a night of super performances when he won the two-mile in 8 minute 51.1 seconds. He was run­ning only to win, but when Earl Mitchell, Indiana freshman, set a 4:27.5 pace for the mile, Ralph Schwarzkopf, former Michigan star, knew it was too fast a race for him. Accordingly he took the lead and piled on the pace for a 6:41 mile and a half, then dropped out to watch Rice, Mel Trutt, and Joe McClus­ky battle the rest of the way. It was the fastest mile and a half Rice had ever run in competition and he says he had his doubts about his ability to finish strongly. He slowed the pace to 69 sec­onds for the next quarter, then "flew" home in a 61.1 final quarter. Trutt fin­
ished in 8:53.8, the fourth fastest two-mile in the history of track. Rice's time was the fastest by more than two sec­onds, indoor or outdoor, in track annals, A little figuring shows that following his first mile of about 4:28, he ran a 4:23 second mile. Try it some time. 
To get the full import of these statis­tics, read the following table of .great two mile races: 
8:51.1—By Kice, indoor, 1941 8:53.2—By Taisto Maki, Finland, outdoor, Sep­
temiier, 1939 8:53.4—By Rice, indoor. New York, 1941 8:53.8—By Trutt. indoor, 1941 (behind Eicc), Chi­
cago 8:56—By Mike S£at>o, Hungary, outdoor, Buda­
pest, 1937* 8:56.2—By Rice, indoor. New York, 1940* 8:58—By Don Lash, indoor, Boston, 1937 8:58.2—By Paavo Nurmi, indoor. New York, 1925 8:58.3—By Lash, outdoor, Princeton, 1936 8:59.8—By Nurmi, outdoor, Finland, 1931 
* World indoor and outdoor records. lASh's 
8:58.3 is American outdoor mark. 
At the testimonial dinner for Rice, given by the Notre Dame dub of the St. Joseph Valley and the Villagers' club, Keams said that the Daily News meet is really Notre Dame's in a sense, since the late John P. Nicholson put the idea for such an event into Keams' head. The latter then sold the News on the idea. Performances of other Notre Dame entrants are covered elsewhere in this section. 
ADDITIONAL SPORTS By William E. Scanlan, '42 

BASEBALL 
The combined assault of inclement weather, graduation losses, injuries, and the inability of prospective football stars to practice have combined to make prospects for Irish baseball successes hit a new low. In addition, the Irish face a schedule of teams whose early season generally includes southern trips. Notre Dame battles Indiana's change­able climate for the right to practice. 
Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline's team was scheduled to open the season April 10 against Purdue at Lafayette — an opening that perpetuates one of Notre Dame's oldest rivalries. Purdue won a pair of pitchers' battles, 3 to 2, in 12 innings, and, 2 to 1, last year. 
Only four lettermen are available for games early this season. Capt. Andy Chlebeck will return to centerfield and Ray Pinelli moves to third base from shortstop. Two other lettermen, George Sobek, second base, and Charles Farrell, first base, have been hampered in pre­season drills by injuries. Sobek had a recurrence of an old knee injury, and Farrell was favoring a football injury to his throwing arm. 
In an effort to provide a good defen­sive infield, Coach Kline moved Pinelli to third base and sent Chuck Crimmins, reserve third sacker a year ago, to short­stop. Don Maguire and Bill Stewart, Jr., are leading the fight as understudy to Sobek, if the latter is unable to play. Stewart also plays the outfield. 
With Coach Prank Leahy bringing several innovations to the Notre Dame grid scene, it is necessary that Bemie Crimmins, regular catcher, and Tom Cal­lahan and Jack Warner, probable regu­lar outfielders, remain out for the grid sport until after the annual Old Timers-Varsity football game. Al Vandervoort and Mike Kelly are battling for the catching post during Crimmins' absence. 
With Hubert Crane and Ken Ober­bmner, regular outfielders who flanked Capt. Chlebeck last year, graduated, the race is open. Bob Hargrave, monogram winner in right field a year ago, is var­sity quarterback and plans to concen­trate on his books after spring football, thus foregoing baseball. 
The schedule follows: 
April 10—Purdue at Lafayette. 
15—Chicago at Chicago 
18—^lowa at Iowa City 
19—Iowa at Iowa CSty 
22—Michigan at Ann Arbor 
23—Western State at Kalamazoo 
26—Western State at Notre Dame 

Kay 2—Northwestern at Notre Dame 
3—^Northwestern at Evanston 
6—Purdue at Notre Dame 
7—^Michigan State at Notre Dame 
10—Michigan State at East Lansing 
17—Navy at Notre Dame 
20—^Michigan at Notre Dame 
23—Ohio State at Notre Dame 
. 24—Ohio State at Notre Dame 
•30—California
 at Notre Dame 

•31—California
 at Notre Dame 


Commencement 
GOLF 
Eight dual matches, the Indiana State tournament at Lafayette, and the Na­tional IntercoUegiates at Columbus, Ohio, will keep Notre Dame's golf squad busy in 1941. The team opens its season on April 19 against Purdue at Lafayette. 
Three lettermen have greeted the Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C, coach of the team. Capt. Sammy Neild, Central Falls, R. L, senior who holds the all-time Notre Bame record over the Wil­liam J. Burke course with a three-under par 67, heads the list. John David, of Purdue, bettered Neild's mark with a 66 in the 1939 Indiana State tourna­ment. Bill Wilson and Milo Wolf, jun­iors from Port Huron, Mich., No. 4 and No. 6 last year, also won monograms. 
Gene Fehlig, sophomore from St. Louis and the third of the golfing Feh­ligs at Notre Dame, heads the newcom­ers. He won the University title last autumn and shot a 73 his first time out this spring after competing during the indoor track season as a member of the mile relay team. He expects to compete in both sports during the spring. 
Seniors making their last bids for let­ters include: George Schreiber, Albu­
.querque, N. Mex.; Jim Wrape, Para­gould. Ark.; Jim Bakeman, Rockford, m.; and Tom Walsh, Omaha, Nebr. Jun­iors leading the list, in addition to Wilson and Wolf, are: John Conry, Tulsa, Okla.; Tom Nash, Chicago; and Bill Mtforhead, southpaw from -Anchorage, Ky. Chal­lenging Fehlig for sophomore honors are: Bill Fisher, Huron, Ohio; John Hedges, Rochester, N. Y.; Bernard Tur­nock. South Bend, Ind.; Jack Allen, Port Huron, Mich.; and Jack Harrigan, Los Angeles. 
The schedule: 
Apr. 19—^Purdue at Lafayette 21—Illinois at Notre Dame . 28—^Wisconsin at Notre Dame May 5—Michigan at Notre Dame 
9—^Michigan State at Notre Dame 12—Minnesota at Minneapolis 17—Nortliwestem at Evanston 22—Detroit at Notre Dame 24—^Indiana State Tournament at Lafayette 
June 23-28—^National Intercollegiate at Columlins, Ohio 
TENNIS If prospects materialize, Notre Dame's tennis team will be the strongest Irish unit ever produced, according to Coach Walter M. Langford. The schedule in­cludes eight dual matches and the an­nual state tournament at Richmond, Ind. 
The Irish open the 1941 season at home against Detroit, one of two new foes on the slate, April 26. The other newcomer is Michigan State, foe here on May 15. 
Five lettermen and two outstanding 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
LORDI IS SQUASH CHAMP 
Joe Lordi, '30, New York City, captain of the 1930 baseball team, is the new national amateur cham­pion in squash tennis. Represent­ing the New York Athletic Club, Joe recently beat Tom lannicelli in the finale, 15-9, 8-15, 15-9 and 15-6. 
sophomores make prospects rosy. Only Capt. Bill Fay, No. 2 man from Mt Leb­anon, Pa., and Harold Bowler, No. 4 of Ware, Mass., are lost by graduation. 
Dan Canale, 127-pound Bengal Bouts boxing titlist and a junior from Mem­phis, Tenn., heads the prospects. He was No. 1 performer last season, won the Indiana state singles championship, and combined with Fay to capture the state doubles laurels. Capt. Jack Joyce, Spar­tanburg, S. C, No. 3 a year ago; John Garvfey, Sharon, Pa.; Norm Heckler, Blue Island, 111.; and John Walsh, Price, Utah, all seniors, are other returning lettermen. 
Leading newcomers are Olen Parks, 200-pound sophomore from Mishawaka, Ind., and George Biittner, Schenectady, 
N. Y. Last season the team won five matches and lost but three. "We have had a trend upward in tennis at Notre Dame during the past few years," Coach Lang­ford enthusiastically recalls, "and it 
looks like prospects should really ma­terialize this season. 
The schedule includes: 
Apr. 26—Detroit at Notre Dame 29—Westem State at Notre Dame May 2—^Indiana at Bloomington c 
3—Kentuclcy at Lexington 10—Chicago at Chicago 14—Michigan at Notre Dame 15—Michigan State at Notre Dame 17—Northwestern at Evanston ­22-23-24 — Indiana State Toomament at 
Earlham College. Richmond 
BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame's basketball squad aver­aged 48.27 points per game to pile up a new modem scoring record of 1,062 markers while winning 17 out of 22 games during the 1940-41 season. The only total to beat that standard was the aggregate of 1,327 made daring the 1908-09 season in 40 games. 
For the third straight season, Capt. Kddie. Riska, of Chicago, paced the team in the scoring tables with 174 points in 17 games. Riska, a forward, missed five games because of a broken foot. His three-year total of 608 points ranks sec­ond only to Johnny Moir's total of 780 for the three seasons ending in 1938. 
13 
Capt Ed (Moose) Krause, of the 1933­34 team, held the record before Heir with 547 points. 
Arthur Wellington Pope, junior for­ward &om Chicago, was named captain in a close election; over George Sobek, forward from Hammond, Ind. 
The season percentage of .773 left Coach George Keogan's record for 18 years at 299 victories, 89 defeats and one tie. That tie occurred against North­western in 1935 when scorekeepers missed a free throw by Ray Meyer, pres­ent assistant coach. Keogan's winning percentage is now .771, one point above his mark at the end of the 1939-40 sea­son. 
After winning four and losing three games in the first seven starts, the Irish won 11 conescutive games, and were vic­torious in 13 of the last 15 tilts. Wis­consin's' National Collegiate champions barely won a 44-43 victory on the Bad­gers' home court, and Illinois took a 41­39 verdict, in an overtime. The Irish ' broke even with the other three teams that beat them -^ Northwestern, Batler, and Michigan State. 
The squad overcame several outstand­ing obstacles to compile the highly com-> mendable season. Coach Keogan was or­dered to restrict his activity late in December because of a heart ailment. He was confined to bed five weeks, the last four at a South Bend hospital. As this goes to press, however, he is up and around at his home, and is expected to return to the University soon. The squad was comx>aratively short and inexperi­enced, and it suffered temporary losses because of injuries to Capt. Riska and George Sobek, regular forwards. When Coach Keogan left the team, Meyer, 1936-37 and 1937-38 captain, took charge. One of the highlights of the season was an 81-34 triumph over Mon­mouth in the season opener — the high­

' est score in the history of Notre Dame basketball. 
The 1940-41 record follows: 
Notre Dame, 81; Honmooth, 34 Notre Dmme. 73: Kalamazoo. 37 Notre Dame, 34: Illinois Weslesran. 28 Wisconsin, 44; Notre Dame, 43 Notre Dame, 37; Michigan, 27 niinois. 41: Notre Dame, 39 (overtime) Northwestern, 46: Notre Dame, 3S Notre Dame. 48; Kentucky, 47 Notre Dame. 53: Wabash, 38 Notre Dame. 45; Sutler. 35 Notre Dame, S3; Pennsylvania, 37 Notre Dame^ S4; Syracuse, 49 (overtime) Notre Dame, 46; Michigan State, 39 Notre Dame. 58; Harqaette. 40 Notre Dame, 46; North Dakota. 38 Notre Dame. 47: Northwestern, 36 Notre Dame, 41: New Tork V., 38 Notre Dame. S3; Georgia Tech. 42 Butler, 54: Notre Dame, 40 Michigan SUte, 44: Notre Dame, 3S Notre Dame. 44; Mamuette, 39 Notre Dame. 56; Detroit. 42 

STUDENT NOTES 
BLIND STUDENT LEADS 
Blindness presents practically no bar­rier to the accomplishments of John J. Morrison, freshman student from Mil­ton, Mass. To show the world in general that (to quote an old adage) "where there's a will there's a way" John earned a 93.5 scholastic average for the first ' semester, to rank among the top dozen in his class. Assisted by three buddies who read his textbook material to him and aided by the Braille method for the blind, John has no trouble keeping well up on his studies. Recently he was part of a University commission that visited a blind newsman in the South Bend postoilice lobby to compliment Mm on keeping his newsrack free of magazines that do not measure up to the standards set by the National Organization for Decent Literature. Gregory Rice, '39, accompanied him. Latest accomplishment of the blind lad was his selection as president of the freshman class. 
N. D. SPEAKER'S BUREAU An organization little known to cam­pus life has steadily made its influence felt in recent months as an excellent ex­ample of Catholic Action. Under the unimposing banner. The Notre Dame Speaker's Bureau, nine students have visited the Catholic parishes near the University to give short talks on Chris­tian doctrine and to clear up doubts and difficulties concerning the Catholic faith. Founder and spiritual adviser of the group is Rev. Regis O'Neil, C.S.C, Notre Dame speech department. Father. O'Neil's brain-child was bom this way. "Many of the boj's in my reli­gion classes," he explained, "expressed a willingness to give speeches in class on subjects such as 'The Danger of Mixed Marriage,' 'Free Masonry,' 'The Evils of Birth Control,' and many others. The speeches often terminated with discus­sion. Some of the talks were so well given that I wondered if some kind of an organization could be formed which would serve as an outlet for their enthu­siasm. The Notre Dame Speaker's Bu­reau was then organized." Contact man and president of the group, John Specht, sophomore from Chicago, makes all appointments for the members. The speakers average three visits per week. In time, according to President Specht, non-Catholic institu­tions and groups will also be included for visitations. Members are Robert 
Marbach, White Plains, N. Y., senior; John Donovan, Binghamton, N. Y., John 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
By Robert Towner, '43 

Malone, Toledo, Ohio, and Donald Gny­ette, Fond du Lac, Wis, juniors; Carl Coco, Lake Charles, La., Frank King, Jamaica, N. Y., and Specht, sophomores; and, Gerald Gaffney, New York City, and John Utz, Rochester, Minn., fresh­men. 
BATTLE OF WITS 
Washington Hall's sturdy stage was the scene of a "battle extraordinary re­cently as radio's original Professor Quiz staged his famous "Battle of Wits" on the boards of Notre Dame's theatre em­porium with freshmen orally "slapping down their sophomore rivals' ears" and the juniors sinking the seniors in what a Scholastic reporter aptly terms a "wit­skrieg." 
Representing the victorious third year 

men were Matthew Byrne, Bronx, N. Y.; 
Robert Coleman, Shaker Heights, Ohio; 
and football captain Paul Lillis, Mt. 
Vernon, N. Y. Answering questions for 
the seniors were Thomas Carty, Yon­
kers, N. Y.; Ralph Gerra, Brooklyn, 
N. Y.; and Robert Doran, Danbnry, Conn. Carty, editor of last year's Dome, and Lillis tied with 450 points for indi­vidual scoring honors. 
The winning freshman team was com­posed of Harold Haley, Madison, Wis.; James O'Dea, Lowell, Miss.; and, James McDonough, Chicago. Sophomore oppo­sition was formed by William Costello, Gloucester City, Conn.; William Brady, New London, Conn.; and, Richard Pa­desky, LaCrosse, Wis. O'Dea answered most questions correctly fired at him by Prof. Quiz who in real life is Dr. Earl Craig. 
BENGAL CHAMPIONS 
One long week of boxing was capjied 

with the crowning of eight champions 
in the University's 1941 edition of the 
Bengal Bouts before 4,000 lusty fight 
fans under the Reldhouse roof, March 
22. Proceeds of the "fight for India" carnival were turned over to the Holy Cross missions in the Bengal province of India. 
Charlie Kralovec, LaGrange, 111., tagged Bruce Hebenstreit, Albuquerque, 
N. Mex., with a technical knockout in capturing the heavyweight diadem. Bill Hoyne, Dayton, Ohio, decisioned Jerry Ryan, Susquehanna, Pa., at 175 pounds. The most efficient performance was turned in by Rod Maguire, Canton, HI., who T.K.O.'d red-haired Jim Rice, Reedsburg, Wis., at 145 pounds. Other • winners were: Tom Nolan, Minneapolis, Minn., decisioned Joe Costello, Alexan­dria, Va., at 165 pounds; Bill McGrath, Lawrence, N. Y., gained a technical knockout over George Green, Brooklyn, 
N. Y., at 155 pounds; Dan Canale, Mem­phis, Tenn., won the featherweight title over Sam Meyer, Blanchardville, Wis.; Joe Padon, Tulsa, Okla., decisioned Louis Schmitz, Willmar Minn., at 135 pounds; Paul Malloy, Tulsa, Okla., re­peated as bantamweight king. Maguire and McGrath were also repeating champs while Meyer and Ryan lost their crowns. 
Frank Leahy, new football head, served as honorary referee at the cham-' pionship bouts. His assistants, Ed Mc-Keever, Johnny Druze and Joe McArdle, and Frank W. Lloyd, University comp­troller; acted as honorary judges. 
PRESS CLUB DINNER 
Featuring two outstanding newspaper men as piinipal speakers, the Press Club under the direction of Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the Journalism Depart­ment, successfully held its annual din­ner on April 4. 
Thomas A. Daily of Philadelphia, vet­eran newspaper columnist and humor­ist, shared speaking honors with Charles 
A. Smith, ace European correspondent, just returned to the United States from London. 
Ray Pinelli, San Francisco, Notre Dame baseball star and member of the graduating class in journalism, spoke as the representative of the club. Frank Mc­Donough, Chicago , club president, greeted the guests. 
ADDED NOTES Notre Dame debate teams kept their reputation for outtalking rival squads intact in the Manchester College tourna­ment, winning' 19 of 22 debates. The year's subject is, "Resolved: That the nations of the western hemisphere should enter into a permanent nnion." With the season's campaign stfll •^waxing strong, the Fighting Irish speakers should wind up with a remarkable.rec­ord. . . . Most Rev.' John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., auxiliary bishop of the Army and Navy and former president of Notre Dame, spoke informally to more than 350 students subject to army Induction under provisions of the na­tional selective service act. . . . Eight students have been approved for air training by an Army examining board from Fifth corps area headquarters. Fort Hayes, Columbus, Ohio. . . . Prof. Paul C Bartholomew, acting head of the department of politics, again guided an entourage of students and others .east­ward during the Easter holidays to visit the nation's capital. 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
edoaT And did yoa aU aee Fathera Mtte Mariaritr-Jianay Mana. and Faal HaUiBaa? — not oaa of them cookl say a word during that last lap in the Greg Biet two mil* run. 
'With regrets. I report the exodus of President Baing and family to Norwalk, Ohio, where Nick takes up the practice of law and Mary con­tinues to rear the family. Jerry Beidy assumes the duties of president, and there is no reason wily he should not continue in that capacity throo^oot 1941. Inridentally^ tha annual business meeting will be hdd on May 12, the place to be announced later. 
The Annual Retreat met with its aceostamed .reecvtion, capadty crowds attended both week­
ends, and for the benefit of those whose reserva­
tions were not filled, another week-eod ntreat 
-was held, beginning March 21. Al Lawtaa eoa­
dneted the first retreat, and Jerry Beidy puaered 
the second event Retreatanta from Akron. 
Tonngstown, and Lorain helped to fill the 
retreat house to capadty on both oceadonsL 
April 21. or Universal Notre Dame IH^it. wiU date a party for Cleveland Notre Damen, prob­ably in the Midday Club, under the Election of a large eomiadttee. 
Jaha Dayle has left Cleveland with a mechan­ized Army ontfit, Toa> Shriner has left in the role of reerait and Jack CslBns has attended in­numerable farewdl parties, in his honor — he may have to go, at that 
Affisaa J. (Bud) O'Brien. MJ>.. announces the opening of an office at 15000 Madison ave.. Lake­wood. Ohio, for the practice of obstetrics, and he wiU continue his office in Westlake. Take it easy, please. Bod. 
Mike Ciawferd. 

CHICAGO Gearge A. Braatigaia. '29. Saita 4*M. 1 
N. LaSalle St, PreaideBt; FranUin E. Daaa. 
•29. 314 ITth St . WOmette. m . Secretary. 

Able, affable Gcaige Braatigam Ust week took temporary leave of sane of his tarts, replevins, injtmctions, and buckled down to the onerous task of goiding the Chicago Club through an Inten­sive spring- campaign. 
In quick succession, after piloting the officers and board of governors throu^ thdr monthly confab, he predded at the Sympodnm. something novd in the field of alumni activity (See Ednca­tion): helped brisk Bay Maffigaa thnnv the tub for the Victory SingersT annual dsteddfod. (aae Mudc); began some long-range thinking and planning for Universal Notre Dame Ni^ t (see Radio) 
At week's end the preddent •visibly more tired but still in good humor, had the satisfaction of Icnowing that the en d are coming, the robins are here, the Chicago Club risJit in the thick of i t 
Education: mrty-five years ago, a small group of Notre Dame graduates formed the Chicago Alumni Club. Deliberate Frank McKcever was one of the first officers, still sits on the board of governors. Hie dub has grown since then. Fort­night ago, the dub observed its 35th anniversary witii a symposium. Dean James E. McCarthy South Shored up from Sonth Bend, enlightened tile assemblage on the possible future inilnenee of South American factors on American budness. deftly painted a picture of what the totalitariana 
» • I940-194I AlMuiai Board 
Very Bev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.&, '99, Notre Dame, Ind. —Honorary Preaidtnt Kay J. Eiehenlaub, 15, Colmnbus, Ohio I President Clyde E. Bntussard, '13, Beamnont, Texas . _ Ptrrt Viee-Preaident Thomas F. Byrne, '28, Cleveland, Ohio . -Second Vie»-Preaident James E. Aimstrontr, '25, Notre Dame, Ind.. —Seeretary-Treaswnr William R. Dooley, '26. Notre Dame, Ind. XatiataHt Secretary Frands H. HcEeever, '03, Chicago, DL Hreetor to 19JU Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, 111. Diretior to 19JH John T, Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich. JJireetor to 1943 William J. Mooney, Jr.. '15, Indianapolis, Ind. JHreetor to 19U 
Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, Chicago, DL Joseph H. Mtdqaeen, '40, Notre Dame, Ind. Joseph H. Mulqueen, '40, Philadelphia, Pa 
BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) PUUp C. IjinliniMi, '2«. 112 Lake St . Badunan. Praddent: Haarict A. Wdicr, ex. 'IS, Pcofiles State Bank BM c St. Jowpk, Secretatr. 
Tlie Berrien County Notre Dame Club met at Berrien Springs. FeK 24, 1941. and the fallowing offioen were elected for the ensnins year: viesa­dent. Philip C. Landnun. Buchanan: vice-pres­ident. ABen Johnson. Nlles; treasurer, Sheridan CMfc, Mile*; secretary. SUariee A. Wefeer. St. joeeiia. 

We expect to have our sprins dance or cele­bration in conjunction with Universal Notre DanM Niajit. 
Philip C Landsnun. 
BOSTON Charica BL Gallasher. tS, 588 Adams St. East miton. Mass.. President: John B. Harphy. '32. 718 Adams St . Dorchester. Haas.. Secretary. 

OccasionaUy. eadi of our local alumni groups is honored and privileged to recdve a distin­guished guest Such a distinction came to the Boston dab when Father J. Hogh 01>onndl ac­cepted an invitation to be the guest of honor at the Clover Club dinner held annually in Boston on St. Patrick's Day eve. 
Approximately 100 members of the Boston club and their friends gathered at a luncheon and re­ception to Father O'DonneU on Harcfa 15, at the Exdange dob. Invited guests included: Hon. Hanrice J. Tobin, mayor of Boston: Father James DonalMe. former superior general of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross; Father Frank Gartland. former prefect of religion at the University; William G. O'Hare, secretary, Boston Public Wel­fare, father-of BUI CHare, '40; Hon. Leo H. Leary, justice of the South Boston court; John 
F. Bamide, head master of the "Ihomas N. Hart school, whose son enters. Notre Dame in Septem­ber; and Arthur CKeefe, president of the Clover dub. Joe SaDivan. '22. a law partner in the Bos­ton firm of Hnlburt Jones, Hall A Bickford, acted as <wii<tgi. of ceremonies and did an excep­tionally fine job. 
Mayor Tobin extended not only an oSidal wel­come to Father O'Donnell but his personal tribute as wdL Annually in New Tork (Sty, the mayor and his Battery assodates have been hosts to the Notre Dame football squad at a testimonial din­
Ex-Offieio Director to 19U 
Director to 19JU 
Director to 19JU 

ner the night of the Notre Dame-Army game. In his wdcome. Mayor Tobin spoke of the oustand­ing contributions of the University in overcoming prejudice and bigotry. Fatlier Donahae'a talk was in the nature of a personal tribute to Father O'DonneU. Father O'DonneU, before grang into the discussion, took issue with Mayor Tobin, who had classed himself as a "subway alumnus" and said that we of Notre Dame would not approve the term as such but preferred to look on those individaals as "members of the Notre Dame fam­ily." He went on to portray briefly the story of the rise of the University from its founding - to the present, stressing the hardships, endured by its founders, contributions of Notre Dame men and teachers to the fields of arts and adenees, and the policy of the University to obtain for its faculty the outstanding men of he world. 
John H. JCarphy. 

CLEVELAND Cornelias J. BnDing. '32. Balkley Blfc.. President: Dr. BIyron E. Crawferd. •32. De­tn>it<k>ok BIdg.. Lakewoed. Secretary. 
To the roaring cheers of 6,425 exdted spectators, and with a pace thrice faster than the "Victory March," as played by the Parmadale Band, Notre Dame's own Greg Bice took Cleveland by storm, in a storm, March 16, in the local Arena. Running away from a classy field in the featured Columbi­an Two Mile run. Bice completely won the crowd and the press, and logically enough, was voted the. outstanding athlete' of the meet This meet. sponsored by the combined councils' of the Kni^ts of Columbus of Cleveland, for the benefit of the O.T.O., is the first chapter in a track saga that should be written in Cleveland for years — and years. Rice was accompanied by a Notre Dame freshman, Ed Dnnhan. who, entered in the 1,000 yard run, ran a very nice race. We hope to see him, in a year or two, win one of these featured events. K. K. Bodcne. John Nidwlaon. George Gipp, and Johnny O'Brien have all won praise in life' and at death, but let's not wait to let Greg Rice know what we all feel — he is the outstanding figure in the sport world today. Cleveland salutes you, Greg Rice, and asks yon to return at any time yon can. 
From a purely spectator's ^ewpoint. at so much per copy — didn't Offidals Al Giisaati. Don Miner. Jerry Reidy. Ed Googh. and TInce Murphy look fine in thdr Christmas Dance tnx­
might do if they controlled trade routes.^ Dr. Frederick W. Mueller, of De Paul's college of commerce. North Shored down to the Ijoop, artic­ulated hiB views as to what European and Far Eastern influences might do — to the country's business. A question-and-ans^ver forum followed; some rare views were exposed; "billions in wish-money were discounted at the usual rate. Two hundred Chicago alumni, guests and family asso­ciates left the symi>osium, praising Art Conrad for his smooth job, agreeing that the Symposium should be here to stay. 
Music: Toddling infant in the family of Chi­cago Notre Dame activities is the Victory Singers organization. Two years ago they were a vision; last year an embryonic group trying their wings and hoping their flight would not he episodic. March 23 they came of age, gave their second annual spring concert in age-grimed Studehaker ITieatre, pleased upwards of 500 persons who came to hear something ordinary, remained to applaud something that really had it. 
Robert S. Childe, musician, radioman, was in charge of the baton, directed the 16-man (five listed on the roster were incapacitated with larjTi­gitis, business trips, etc) male chorus in songs of all ]dnds, from the "Ave Maria" and "Te Deum" to the "Kerry Dance" and "Brown Octo­ber Ale." The group was cohesive, hard-working, tonally sound and gave proof that the first alum­ni glee club in the country is making progress. 
George C. Menard, of the deep baritone voice and even tones, made a decided hit with his three Bolos, was called back for more; Ray Mulligan made a curtain speedi in which he thanked all for support, said that the Singers hoped to see even more successful days; Rev. James W. Con­nerton, CS. C registrar of the TJniversity, up from South Bend and his Gregorian Chant du­ties, told of the difficulties confronting singing groups, gave praise to the Singers for sticking to it. 
Radio: Yare John Dorgan was walking on his toes last week, carrying an extra portfolio, giv­ing telephone operators cause for anacin. Reason: Fres. Brmatigam bad just appointed him chair­man of Universal Notre Dame Night. The na­tional radio broadcast will originate in Chicago, Tin¥np«T that pack a pundi will be at the head table. Yare John quickly corralled Spike Mc­Adams to do the reception beat, Eddie Gould to handle tickets; proceeded apace with plans and dreams and arrangements. 
Sport: Cavern-chested Greg Rice did it again, this time in 8:51.1 at the Chicago Relays In In­ternational Amphitheatre. More than a few Chi­cago alumni were on hand, cheered themselves hoarse for the first mile and a half, sent their blood pressure stratosphering in that last quarter vHien Greg poured it on. 
The handball tournament was to get under way lately with 32 entries and the permanent trophy was teetering on the Mclchionc mantel­piece. Didc Naih is the chairman, is seeding the draw, and sasrs he's in shape; Ray McGrath has departed for Fort Sheridan, has given some of the boys a glimmer of hope that they may wear the crown. 
Press: "Notre Dame News" made its bow on Blordi 1, a three-column monthly sheet, filled with plugs for coming events, a Poison Fen column that had dapper John O'Shaaghnessy in high dudgeon, a back page filled with advertising. ^ e Secretary is doubling in brass as an editor, says' that future issues depend less on the print­er's ink in his veins than on the prevalence of rainy Sunday afternoons. 
Franklyn E. Doan. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Mayor Edward J. Kelly, L,L.D., '28. Chicago, acting on bdialf of the Notre Dame Victory Singers of 
the Chicago Club, recently presented a Notre Dame blanket to Fat O'Malley, monologuist of the Alec 
Templeton 'Hme radio program. The blanket was presented to Pat because of his support of the work of 
the alumni group. Shown here, left to right, are: Inrin Corcoran. O'Malley, Raymond MnlUgan, the 
Mayor. Thmnas C Donovan, and George A. BrantisaH. president of the Chicago Club. Corcoran and 
Mulligan represent the Victory Singers; Donovan is past prudent of the club. 
CINCINNATI Joseph P. Kinneary. *28, 1717 Fcmwood Ave.. President; Frank I. Broeman, ex. '35. 3645 Hiddleton Ave., Secretary. 
The club, following its successful dance and Glee Club concert in January, is looking forward with great ex];>ectations to the next event of im­portance on its calendar, a party at the Makete­wah County Club in connection with the celebra­tion of Universal Notre Dame Night. Jack Brod­bcrger, chairman of the committee in charge. hopes to make the party even more enjoyable than last year's. 
Ihe members of the club are pleased to know that Bernard R. Hennes has recently moved to Cincinnati to take charge of the office of the Colonial finance Co. 
Joe Meyer, head football coach at the Uiuver­sity of Cincinnati, has received a four-year exten­sion of his contract, which was due to expire in 1942. Joe has been doing very well at the difi^cult task of huil<Hng a winning team at Cincinnati. Joe has among his assistants Joe BflaxweU and Bad Bonar, both of whom are exi)ected to con­tinue serving nnder him. 
Our other N.D. coach, Clem Crowe of Xavier U.. turned out a winning basketball team in spite of the fact that he lost half bis squad throu^ sickness, injoii^, and ineligibility. 
DBS MOINES Charlea H. Lyndi. '29, 407 Soathem Swety BIdg., President; William R. Robison, "SS, 4th Floor, Iowa Bldg^ Secretair-
Our plans for the annual Drake Relays IMnner for the track team are almost completed, ^ e din­ner will be held in the Cabin of the Hotel Fort Des Moines at 6:30 P. M.. Saturday, April 26.. This can be sofficient notice to any Notre Dame men who happen to be in Des Moines on that day that they will be welcome without additional in­vitation. 
I had lunch recently with Ralph Ehr who has been transferred to Des Moines as manager of the local office of the Commercial Oredit Cor­poration. 
W. R. Robison. 

DETROIT Jay L. Lee, '12, 1717 National Bank BIdg., President; Victor J. Schaeffner, *33, 832 Federal BIdg., SecreUry. 
Rev. J- Hoffa 0*l>onDe|], CS.C, president of the University, was in Detroit on March 20 in connection with a program of St. Mary's Hospi­
•tal of Detroit Dr. Harvey Brown was in charge of arrangements. Members of the club aware of Father O'Donnell's presence in the city took the opi>ortanity to pay their respects. 
The club is tmanimoos in its wish for the suc­
cess of IVank Leahy and his staff. We know that 
all will be done to maintain the fine tra.d!tions 
of the past. To Elmer Layden and his staff who 
have* tamed over the reins, we wish all the 
hopes, all the attainments that high resolve and 
fidelity to purpose deserve. 
Victor J. Sdiaeffner. 

GRAND RAPIDS FranciB J. TfrnOl. ex. 'SI, 317 Bond. N.W.. Preddent; George A. Jac^oboicc, "SI, 327 Fnnt Av e N.W., SecreUty. 
Ed Mdlermott, after being caught in the draft, and wined and dined, is in the Army now. 
Barrister Harry Merdtinski. nautical in pea-jacket and white puttees, recently hit the deck at the Great Lakes Naval l^raining Station. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert N. Alt are being felici­tated upon the birth of a son. 
Joaepli Blaney, when not wiling customers to the Yoongstown Steel Products Company line, often beguiles audiences at the Civic Players. 
Note: to the Akron Club: Jim Swieedyk, ace bridge player, is within your gates. JeeeiA Deeb. United States district attorney, is back at his desk after an appendectomy. 
Local news hawks include John Flanagan and dwrley Hoffman at the "Herald"; and Jack Mc-Elwee at the "Press." 
George Ardiart, the sprayer sj^ecialty man. is a frequent visitor from Lowell. Jekn Broffger is an accountant with Ernst & Ernst. And that sums up the news on the Grand Rapids-Notre Dame axis. George A. Jadcoboice. 
GREATER LOUISVILLE (Kentucky) Looii J. HoUenbacii, ex. 'it, Gkncae Distil­lery, LonisTiUe, President: Darid W. Baird, ex. '31. 2517 Ciierokee Parlnrar, LonisTine, Secretary. 
The club received Holy Communion in a body ut St. Hary Masdalene Church on March 30. Mass was followed by a breakfast for the mem­bers. 
The annual election of officers will be held at the Colonial Gardens. Members of the club, their wives and their friends will attend a banquet following the election. The regular meeting night has been passed to enable the club to meet on Universal N.D. Night, April 21. 
David W. Baiid. 

LOS ANGELES 
James R. HcCabe, '22, 324 Pacific Electric Bide, Los Anseles, President; Martin B. Daly, ex. '28, 201 Denslow Ave., W. Los Anffeles, Secretary. 

James UcGabe, vice-president during the year, was elected president of our club for the year 1941, He will be assisted by John Rider, as vice-president ; Marty Daly as secretary, and - Eddie Canninsham, as treasurer. 
Flans for the year were discussed and sug­gestions for the betterment of the club were made by Joseph Scott, Done Daley, Jndce A. A. Scott, Marty Brill, Dave Feferman, Gene Ken­nedy and others. 
Dr. Robert niockweiler, '29, died on Feb. 21. He was a member of our club and we were all very sorry to hear of his death. After graduation from Notre Dame, he studied medicine at Har­vard University. He practiced for one year in San Francisco and then returned to Los Angeles where he continued his very successful practice until his last illness. 
Marty Daly. MOHAWK VALLEY Lester Lovier, '26. S04 N. Madison St., Rome, President: Edward J. Sweeney, '30. 1415 Miner St , UUca, Secretary. The club will hold its annual banquet for alumni and friends on April 21 in the Hotel Utica, Utica, N. Y., in observance of the 18th annual Universal Notre Dame Night. Francis J. Toomey is general chairman of ar­rangements, it was announced by Lester L. Lovier, Rome, N. Y., president. Pete Dwyer will be the chief speaker. 
These committees are in charge: Vice.chairmen, George A. Riditer, Utica, and Leo A. Recs, Rome. 
Arrangements, Francis P. Connors; Ilion, chairman: B. T. O'Shea, Ilion; Hnbert Glancy, Utica: Georce McKee, Rome: Merrill J. Van Slyke, Utica: Gerald R. Molinari, Oneonta; Joseph 
D. Dineen, Herkimer; Fred F. Hetlist, Rome, and Loais Clark, Rome. 
Reception, Vincent J. Fletdier, Utica, chair­man: James T. GriStn, Rome; Dr. Daniel C. Shaugluiessy,-Herldmer; Dr. John F. Kelley, A. C Hitzelberger, Jr.; Francis Hscket, William E. Byrne. Robert F. Fitzgerald. A. J. Gimzd, F. J. Sdiafer and Charles O. Ledermann, all of'Utica. 
Tickets, Francis W. Donalty. Utica, chairman; William L Lynch. Rome; Norman Bonrke, Water-ville: Thomas HcKenns, Rome; Albert V. Moore, Boonville;. Edward J. Sweeney, W. J. Mnlhall. Frands Ledermann. Kellet McCarthy. Henry Lipsie. Ramsay Collis and C. W. DiLeo, all of Utica. 
MILWAUKEE Earl HcCamn, '25, Home Owners Loan Carp., Pretident: John E. Clander, '34, U19 
W. VUet St . Secretary. The call for news follows soon after the happy 
Tke Notre Dame Alumnus 
Notre Dame-Marquette basketball game at the Milwaukee auditorium. Our N.D. gang sliowed the crowd some slick ball handling and keen shooting. Members of the local alumni group were seated in a special block of seats and were pepped by the vigorous cheerleading of Bob Sas­ford. The officers did a fine iob in gathering a large group for supper at the Maryland Hotel before the game. After the game, many joined members of the basketball team at the Milwaukee Athletic Club and spent an enjoyable night. 
. There were many in the group and it is an injustice to mention a few wiiile overlooldng the many, but at any rate we could see Earl HeCar­ron was pleased by the turnout. Hjis was the first time in quite a while that Sheridan McCahe could be with us. Maybe it was unwise to overlook the fact that the boys turned out with their wives and sweethearts, but that was the case for the first time in a long while. Bob Tharinger was congratulated on his engagement to Jean Edwards of Minneapolis. The Galdabini brothels were on hand with the usual cheerful smiles. Dr. Dmdan was seated with some of the-Holy Cross Fathers and Brothers from St. Charles* Boys* Home. Some of the boys were attempting to find out if Father Ireland, S.J., was cheering for Marquette or liis team on which his brother, former Captain George Ireland, had performed. It was a fine game and a swell crowd. 
Jim Wheeler and family left for Florida after the game for a rest from his duties at the Her^ cules Powder Plant. Charles O'Neill has oar sym­pathy on the death of his father. Charley has been executive secretary of the St. Vincent de Paul Society for many years. Dave FroeUdl is the proud father of a boy, who so far appears des­tined to be a cheerleader rather than a football player. 
Flans are lieing formulated for a great party on Universal. Notre Dame Night Boys from out of town can get a program by writing the sec­retary. 
Pad Bmst 

NEW JERSEY 
Harvey P. Rockwell, '34, 74 Lenaz Ave„ East Orange, President: Andrew E. O'Keeffe, *33, Box 363, New Bmnswidc, Secntaiy. 

Just at present, the New Jersey club, havinff just gone through the throes of adopting a new constitution, has its hands full with plans for future events. The Glee Club concert, April 14. will be history when this reaches the readers. Jim Clark is working hard on i t 
Tobey Kramer is chairmaning plans for the Universal Night dinner in. April. The place has been set as the Essex County country chib. the price at $1.50. The attendance at the past sev­eral dinners has fallen off sharply, and this is an experiment in taking the affair out in the coun­try, to see if that will improve the size of the crowd. 
Dan O'Neill has returned to us from an en-­forced stay in the Northwest . . . Dan looks and feels'much l>etter than when he left a few months ago. He's a walking advertisement for the climate. 
-
 . . . Bill Carter has promised to take over publica­tion of the "Notre Dame New Jersey Echo" while Ray Geiger works for Uncle Sam in the Army for a year. Ray, as this is -written, expects to leave either April 2 or April 16. Already in the service are Bob McDonoogh of Orange and Joe Moore of Bloomfield, both buck privates, U.S-A. 2nd Lieut Stan Partyka, MC-Res., is telling it to the Marines at Quantico, Va. Soon there will be enough to start a Notre Dame Club of the Army and Navy I Since Ray Geiger will not be able to furnish gossip for this column, I hereby nominate him for secretary of such a club, when and if it ii formed. 

B.
 K. (Wink) 'Wingerter is celebrating the birth of a son recently. .. . Ed Phelan is teach­ing at John Marshall Law School, Jersey City. 


. . . New Jersey had a weleorae -visit ttam JM 
SaCivaa. who came in from the Akroo oSiee of 
United Airlines. .. . Joe and tlie Jersey dob are 
both waiting for Newark Airport to reopen, so be 
can come back east again. 
Andnw C. O'Kacle. 

NEW YORK CITY Warm S. Face!. 'St, U E. «lst St, Pitsi­dent; Tiaettr J. Toomey. I*. Rqral Imttm­nity Co.. ISt WiUaMS St. Scoctaiy. 
The week-end of Feb, 15 certainly gave tone to that new ditty, "It's a great day for the Irish," here in New York (Sty. 
Before a capacity crowd of 18,000 on Fdi. 14 in Madison. Square Garden, the Irish hoopstera outlueked the Violets of N.Y.U. in a tbrillinz contest, 41-38. Ned Irish, genial promoter of col­legiate bssketball at the Garden, cane throogji in his usual grand style in the manner of furnish­ing the clubbers with choice locations for the game. (At least he did for the writer). After the game, Ji a Canall, '31, recently appointed man»­ger of Hotel Woodstock, proved to be an exeellent host at a surprisingly large informal gathering of clubbers, their wives, sweethearts, and foiends. 
The announcement that Frank Leahy had been named as Elaer Laydcm'a successor was made over the public address system at the Garden, before the start of the NJ>.-N.Y.U. game, and was en­thusiastically greeted by the clubbers and all followers of the "Fitting Irish" football deves. Those of US who knew Frank at sdiool. observed his grand work at Fordham and saw Iiis spirited squads at Boston College perform — realize that the University authorities left no stone untamed in selecting a capable skipper. President Watidi Fagel formally extended the best wishes of the club to Frank as soon as bis selection as head coach and athletie director was made poblie. 
Feb. 15 saw the Phantom of the Pindxnrds. Greg Bice, simtter his own two^mile indoor world's record at the N.Y.A.C. games. Tlw basketball contingent, including players, managers, trainer and coach were en hand to cheer Notre Dame's greatest track star on to new honors. 
Ji a Siaer, '30, always an unselfish worker for the soeoess of the club, recently joined a wdl­known publishing organization as eastern repre­sentative and will make future headquarters in his home town. Tbwanda. Pa. Jim's gmgs;' told la dialect, will be missed at the'meetings. 
Detective Edward Mshen. '31. member of the New York City Police Department, waa recently promoted -at an impressive ceremony as the re-suit of his fine work in the apprdiension of a long-sought suspect in one of the city's most bafning murders. 
The Hardi meeting of the elnb, held at the Hotel Woodstock, proved to be one of the most varied and interesting get-togethers put on by the club in some time. 
Daniel I. McNamara. member of the ExeeuUve Offices of ASCAP gave ns the low-down en the ASCAP-BMI fend. 
Captain Kni^t, former commander of the S. S.< Empress of Australia, now on transport duty. was presented to the dnb by Jias Canal, *S1. manager of the hotel. Captain Eni^ t related a few of his hair-raising experiences in this Sec­ond World War. He tactfully refrained from an­swering any confidential questions. Ihiangfa tk* courtesy of the National Basdwll League, the movie. "Winning Baseball," was shown, and Hiis picture was supplemented by newsred shots of Greg Uce winning the National A-A.U. three-mile diamplonshtp and bdng presented with the SdlB­van Memorial Award. 
Most RcT. Jahn F. O'Hata. CS.C., DJK, dropped 
in unexpectedly and chatted mformally with the t until the "zero hoar.** 
The Tenth A*'""^^ Bodcne Memorial Commtm­ion BreelEfast was held on March 30 at the New Tork Athletic chih following a Mass at St. Fat­rick's Gatdidrml. Jee Byme, *15, classmate o£ Rock, was toastmaster and introduced several weU-known leakers. Co-chairmen Dan Halpin and Bab Hanultm are to be consratalated for their nntirinff efiforts in mnViTig this one of the clnb*8 ootstandinff events. 
Clob members and all alumni residintr in the Metropolitan Area are urged to notify the secre­tary of any change in address so that the records can be broofi^t up to date and so that we can ke ^ in tooch with all K.D. grads in the vicinity. 
Jack Lardlc, '28, toastma-ster and general chairman, has selected l^itel Pennsylvania for the Universal Kotre Dame Night Banquet^ on Apzil 21. Jack is hard at work and all the club­bo s can be assured that this affair will be a standout. Among the guests invited are: the Most Ber. Francis J. Spdlman, DJ>.» archbishop of New York; hU Gen* Hn ^ A. Dmm, liaetare Medalist; Hon. Frank C. Walker, '09. postmaster general; John Kieran and £ddie Dowling. 
Tim Toomey. 

"Rie two Mass Kits presented to Bishop 0*Hara Ua chaplains in the armed forces were i^van to the Ber. Edward Fitzgerald, CS.C., for­mer member of the Notre Dame Mis^on Band^ who is stationed at Fort Devens, Mass., and the Bev. Andrew J. Farricker, former as^stant at Sacred Heart Church, Bronx, now stationed at Camv Stewart. Savannah, Ga., with the old 7th Begiment of New York City. Father Farricker used the Kit eddrating the first Mass ever held in the Seventh Begiment Armory. The inscrip­tion on tiie Idts read: "To the Military Ordl­nariate from the Notre Dame Club of New York.*' 
The dub received the following letter from Father Fitzgerald: 
"Our own Bidiop O'Ham sent me one of the beautiful Mass kits yon contributed to the service of God and Country. I will always deem your gift a real treasure. I do not need to remind you men of tiie graces and blessings such a gift will bring to yoa whoiever and wherever your gift is used in the celebration of Holy Mass. 
"As a member of the Notre Dame Mission Band in the past seven years I have always enjoyed meeting Notre Dame men, but regret the fact that I haven't met more of them. Ihere have been very vezy few occaaons' when a Holy Cross Father had to hang his head when a Notre Dame man was mentioned. On the contrary wherever we go around the country, into various parishes. or on trains, we beam with delight when Notre Dame men are spoken of in words of highest praise. 
"I have been on missions in New York City and snnoanding territoiy and I am veiy happy and proud to say that the clergy and laity of that great metropolis prize you men highly. 
"May God bless eadi one of you. your homes and families is my prayer in thanking you for your lovdy gift."* 
The local club, on the front line with Catholic Action work, has also purchased a series of pam­phlets published by the Notre Dame Student Com­mistaon for Decent literature. These will be dis­tributed at l^y centers wher« the most good will be derived by largest numbers of high school students. "Hie first public display of these pam­phlets took place at the first Annual Conference of tiie Oonfratemity of Qiristian Doctrine at the Columbus Centre, Brooklyn, on Mardi 14. 15, and 16. 
OKLAHOMA 
WilHaB J. Siwny, '14, 81« Kcwsedy BUt., Tnlsa, Okla., President; Cad J. Scmgcr, "ST* 1204 S. Cheyenne, Tnlsa, Secretaiy. 

Several members of onr grotgi were inducted into Conndl 1104 of the Enlists of Oolnnilms early in Fd>raanr. The new knights are Jsaepli 
A. Moran, attorney; Pat BbUoy, attorney and assistant coach of Casia Hall; and Jos McNBttar. insurance agent and coadi of Marquette Hifl^ SchooL 
Joseph A. Moran, past preddent of the k»eal group, and William Sheery, present preudent, journeyed to Oklahoma (Sty and attended a cBn­ner-meeting with Jim Bnrice, J. S. Askew and William Lomassey, at which it was deeded to hold the annual spring meeting of the dnb in Oklahoma City at the Sldrvin Hotel on April 19. This meeting is being arranged by these three Oklahoma Gty members. It will be the first meet­ing to be held in Oklahoma (Sty in several years. Frank Blartin. attorney and outstanding layman of Oklahoma, will be the guest speaker. A Urge delegation from l^ilsa has promised to be present at this meeting and we trust that other' sections 
o r Oklahoma will be well represented. 
Our good friend, BiH Coniy, had a short but sweet e3q?erience in the army: he was rejeeted because the army officuals thought Bill was note important to the oil industry than to the forees at Fort SilL 
John 0*Hem ^»ent a few days during the month of February with his mother in Tulsa. Carl J. Scnger. 
PHILADELPHIA Wmiam A. A. Castellini, *22, Uncsls­liberty Bldg-. President; E. Bradley BaOey. ex. *23, 260 S. Broad St., Secretary* 
The February meeting of the club was attended by 60 Notre Dame men and their friends who ate turkey and spumonL Falumbo's provided the meal ... a floor show . . . prizes ... all for $1.50, including tip. 
Those present included John J. Brady and his crowd from the United States Mint . . .Jad e Biley* back from New York State, now permsp nently located on Wayne avenue in Haddonfidd, 
N. J. . . . Tony Stopper, Vine Donohne, old Navy Yard Proddil .. . HcCready Huston of the Acad­emy of Natural History . . . pipe fitter and father Bin Cooney .. . Dr. E. J. Lyons, most faithful. Dry Dock's Dan H. Yonng, whose com­pany just got another order for a $15,000,000 dry dock and a new bridge . . . Jim Ktencf, whose column appears five days a week in the "Evening Public Ledger.** 
Joe Wac^erman, who has been unanimously chosen as the only candidate for the presidency of the club . . . Hon. Jf^m H. Neeson, director of public works . . . Jesse Clarence Jaaies, exHUreri­dent of the dub . . . life insurance James 0*I>sii­nell, accident, too . . . Wslter Philipp, gnardian of the Navy Yard gate .. . a new face welcomed was W. Breen McDonald . . , Chariey McKinncy, treasurer of the Edward G. Budd employees group . . . Joseph BIah<Miey, the next -nee-premdent . . . two Jefferson Medical sdiool professors. Dr. Sherman A. Eger, president of the TTz^nus ns­tional alumni, and Dr. W. A. CasfsBo, secretary of the Holy Cross College club of PhiladeliAiia, watching drop-Mcker John KeBeher, Harry Gold­berg, advertising manager, Warner Brothers, who made a special trip from New York to hear his Everett C Callow receive the -applause of -the Notre Dame men for his- winning the QniglcT Award, the highest honor given publicity and ad­vertising men in the motion picture industry .. . Callow did the "Enute Rockne—^All American** 
G^loitation in Philadelphia with the aid of the 
local organization of N.D. men and friends. 
Two men of the 1940 class, now attending 

Temple University, Loais Cenni and B. Cahsnetta. 
were welcomed to the meeting whidi was evened 
by graee pronoimced by the diaplain, Ber* Beiw 
•Btd CL Farley. Pile driver Wcs Fanington, com­puting pomp Harold Dnke to be rejected treas­urer .. . Chaiiey Do«gherty» who we understand has left tlie Department of Bevenne of the Onn­monwealth of Pennsylvania and is headed for the Notre Dame Federal group in Washington. Canon Baldwin, the prindpal Weaker at the Mardi meeting . . . John Moore, Joseph Tigae, Jolta BratCcn, Bill Bnms» Panl Devers, Delancy Davis. good old Eatmett Bfortdl, L. Foley, John Dawaon. Bad Leahy, Fall of Pep Fensel . . . were on deck but the following sent regrets: Tom Qnigley, TfitsM Hedc, who was home awaiting the call to arms (Army), Fogarty, who is FBIing in Buffalo, • Dan Boyle, '38, Gus Creasi, studying for n medical examination. Shapiro, attending his brother's wed­ding in New York, Conal Byrne, the De^an brothers, who were on the sick list, Tom Magce. who is down in Maine. 
High visibility Bailey suounarized the club's activity for the year as follows: — (1) honoring Director Neeaon as the founder of Universal Notre Dame Night in the impressive ceremony in Mayor Lamberton*s reception chambers; (2) preview be­fore the world premiere of the Warner Brothers "Khute Bockne—^AU American" featuring Pat O'Brien; (3) trophy for the most courageous team in the Philadelphia Sandlot League; (4) BIcCready Hnston's revealing address on "Rockne the Man Few Beople Knew"; (5) Dan Young's contribu­tion to Notre Dame employment; (6) Proxy Cas­teninTs talks on N.D. to high s^ool seniors; (7) entertainment of Dean Jadcson; (8) average monthly meeting attendance of 58 out of a pos­sible 100; (9) largest Universal Notre Dame Com­mtmion Sunday observance in Phtladdphia, 58 attending. 
Universal Notre Dame Ni^ t will be celebrated in Philadelphia with a dinner.dance at the Casa Conti, April 21, 1941. 
P. S. to Ed Bailey's column: 
Ai D*Anioni may soon be lugging a rifle (as what few of us won't?) unless he is able to con­vince the authorities he is indispensable to the Fourth Naval District. 
Bet the other clubs would be envious if they saw the plaques we had made up. They're done in the demgn of a medieval shield, in gold and blue with the seal of the University and block "NJ).** in the comers. The lettering "Notre Dame Club** is of collegiate gothic, and they are mount­ed on a stand of wrought copper. Iheir purpose is to serve as markers for dinners at which the club has been asked to participate or they may be used as ogns denoting our meeting place when we gather in hotel rooms. 
^v e yon heard that Perc Connolly has gone and done itT Had a card from him, postmarked Mexico, where he was honesrmooning prior to his taking up readence in California. 
Add to your list of paradoxes: BiH CastelHni, our proxy, handling the publidty for the Aid to Greece campaign. CTis truly, the CSty of Brother­ly Love!) 
"S.O.S.*' the following: Bill Bodo, Bay Broder­kk. Bin Nolan and Messrs. McNaUy. CUffProddiL' 
ROCHESTER Frank X. Connelly, ex. "34, 135 Spring St., President; John F. HaHcy, '37, 1018 Com­
•ercc Bldg., 119 Main St, Secretary. 

In the midst of Lent the local administration is making extmnve plans for participation in Uni­verssl Notre Dame Nis^t. Invitations have been 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
extended to several celebrities. Plans are beinff fornmlated to have our banquet carried over a local radio station. 
Pre-Lenten activities were closed- with a party at the Roosevelt Apartments. The gang enjoyed food, liquids, cards and dancing, llie 25 couples who attended voted emphatically to have more affairs of the same nature. 
Sad news reached members of the club when local papers carried the news of an accident which resulted in the death of the 18-month-old son of William Herraman, '25, and in serious iniuiy to his wife and 12>year-oId son, Patrick, class of *51. Bill was president of our bunch last year. 
Jerry Flymi, who led all of the Irish in song and cheer during most of the last four years at Notre Dame, is announcing programs for a radio station in Batavia, home town of Paul Smith and Lanr Weii^ '37. Incidentally, Bill Jones, '32, has deserted the ranks of "the men who sell in­surance" almost altogether to devote his time to his new position as chief announcer at WSAY, local Mutual outlet. Jim McGuire, '36, of Gcneseo, has left the immediate vicinity .to work as a claim adjuster for an insurance company in Olean, N. Y. 
We participated in Catholic College Night, which was sponsored by the l^ights of Colum­bos on March 20. Films of football games in­volving Catholic colleges were shown. The Knights plan to make this an annoal affair. 
John F. Hariey. 

ST. LOUIS Dr. Bertrand D. Congblin, *26, 7704 Conntry Clnb Coart, President; Albert J. Rararino, *33, 4651 Shaw SL, SccreUty. 
On Universal Notre Dame Night, April 21, there is going to be a 100 per cent turn-out at the Starlight Roof of the Chase Hotel. Dick Jur­gcns, his band and his floor show, playing in the Ghase Club, will be on hand for the entire eve­
' ning to help the cliib celebrate the "night of nights." The national radio program will be piped into the roof garden so that the local party will be able to participate in the national cele­bration. 
The regular election date for club officers has been changed this year. Instead of voting in Feb­ruary, as has been the custom, the election this year will follow. .Commencement exercises at the University. At that time there will be an open house (on the club) at one of the country clubs. At this time will take place the annual initiation of new members just graduated with the present­ing to them of one year's paid-up membership in the club. 
"Hoch." 

TRIPLE CITIES (New York) Harold B. Desnoyers. 'M, 9 SUte St.. 
Malone, N. Y., President: Dr. John T. Kane. ex. 'SS. 87 Front St., Bingtiamton, 
N. YM Secretary. 

John Law, captain of the N.D. football team in "29 and now recreational director of Wallkill State Prison, is to be guest speaker at the club's annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner at the Arlington Hotel, Binghamton, N. Y. Ted Griffin, '39, is diairman. 
Father Joseph B. Tooracy, '26, director of Cath­olic Charities, Inc., Binghamton. N. Y., sponsored the Notre Dame Glee Club for April 18. ITiis promises to be a big social event in Binghamton-
Dr. John T- Kane; ex- '33, was called to service as a second lieutenant in the medical corps. Doc was married in February to Miss Marie Hand, sister of Art Hand, ex. '36. 
Regis McNamara, '32. is now working with the 
U. S. Army engineers. He is engaged in con­structing flood protection walls in Binghamton and vicinity. 
Harold B. Desnoyers. 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA Georse J. ScfaiU, '27, HnUdpal Guf * Repair Shop, Expo. Bldff., D«VMnM Way, Pittsburgh, President; Rer. ViMcat P. Br»­nan, '32. St. Peter's Rectory, 814 Wote n St., TaFcntora, Secictaiy. 
The latest group activity of the cltd> was tbm annual Retreat, held at St. Paul's Retreat Bouse in Pittsburgh the week-end of Jan. 17-19. About 30 of the fellows attended the Retreat, which this year was preached by Father Alexander of the Passionist Order. The big gun behind the Retreat this year was the club treasurer. Jade MonteTenfe, who was, however, not acting in his iraslUoa as treasurer. 
The regular weekly luncheons are still being held at the Hotel Henry in Pittsburgh on Thurs­day, at noon. Quite a few of the boys turn oat for these weekly, and ever so often some stranger pops in. Ed HaUaner from Aliqmppa has been the newest recruit to the regular gang at the luncheons. Lee Sdmeider likewise has been getting around regularly. Lots of the boys have had their battles during the past few months with various forms of illness: Eddie 03ricn, the club vice-president recovered from a siege of pneumonia and Rndy Cmhovic who was at one of the recent luncheons had returned recently from a stay at the Mayo Clinic Even the secre­tary was laid up for a while in Mercy Hospital and while there I was very capably cared for by two of OMT club doctors, viz., Leo ODonnell and Frank Hegarty. Incidentally, I just heard that Frank has been called to active duty with the Medical Corps and is, I believe, stationed at In­diantown Gap. Pa. 
On Feb. 17. Dr.' McBIahon, of the University faculty, was here in town to give a lecture for the University Catholic Club. All the N.D. alumni 
- were invited but previous commitments made it impossible for me to get there. Hie next thins on tap, of course, is the Universal Notre Dame Nisdit and plans for that are being made by our worthy "pres," George Sdiill and the committee whidi he has selected. 
Moro newcomers to this area aro: Leo J. Kcn­nelly, '30, from Youngstown, Ohio, who is with the Goodyear Service Banm and Millvale ave­nues. Pittsburgh. Pa.; and Gerard .J. "Jerry" Smith, '26. now district supervisor of the Phoenix Mutual Life ^surance Co.. Jerry was originally from Rochester, N. Y. He is living at 100 Acad­emy Drive, Mt. Lebanon, Fittshnrg^, Pa. Among other N.D. men working for the same company here is Don Bbrtin, '33, the comparatively recent bridegroom, who is now residing at Brentshire Village, Brentwood, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
.Father Vuice Brennaa. 

GRADUATE NEWS Robert J. Tlwmai, 231 W. 14th St , WO­raington, Delaware. 
This month, thanks to George McMorrow (Fh.D. '40), there is considerable news about former graduate students in the College of Arts and Letters. George, who is teaching at Nazareth Col­lege, Nazareth, Mich., writes: 
"Father Harry Paul is editor of the 'Michigan Catholic" and be u-ields a prolific and powerful I>en in behalf of labor. He has a thoroughly solid understanding of labor economics, and is doing a gi*eat deal of good in his present job. 
"Russ Grey was teaching high school in Qoincy, Mass., the last I heard of him. Bill FitxgeraU is at Madison, Wis., teaching and also working for his doctorate about which he is. incidentally, very enthusiastic. Emmerson Hynes is making a name for himself, laboring diligently in behalf of agrarianism. He has written, several pamphlets which are being widely read. He teaches soaology and ethics at St. John's College, Collegeville, Minn. Tom Neil is still at St. Louis Univermty, 
trrhing and sunoltaneoosly working for his d^ gree. Gnw Batia, an excellent student of philoso­phy, ii now at the Umversty of Laval, teach­inff Aristotle and St. Thomas with his beloved master. De Knoyick. ViMeat HartMtt is with the Jesuits, still hot in the pursuit of knowle^e. Of the others, I have little information to recall, bat in the event anything of interest turns up, I dtaU be delighted to inform you to that effect." 
About himself, Cieorge says hat he is "qqite single^' and is very happy teadiing. He has diarge of the parish dioir in Kalamazozo and condoets a study club in the Sacred Liturgy every TVies­dayni^t . Many thanks. George^ for all the in­formation and let's hear from yoa asc:^n» More letters &om the philosophers and sodologists et cetera would be very well received. 
Well, it finally arrived — that long-awaited letter from Ibre Gcerts. Hare is with the Gohna­bia Alkali Company and makes his home at 125 Westover Drive, Akron, Ohio. He passes on word that George Wslf (PhJ). MO) is now affiliated with labby-Owens-Ford in Toledo. 
Here in Wilmington, congratulations were ex­tended to Win Aiudletti. who became the fatiier of a baby boy, bom Feb. 15. Asked what he would name. the baby, the smiling Will replied: "Cbloroprene Dermatitis Anrilotti." 
Robert J: Thnoss. 
ASSOCIATION NOMINEES . 

(Continaed from Page 3 ) find indeed a bappy problem for its con­sideration in the same post. Al lias Iiad perhaps a more objective view of the Clubs, a factor of importance. Los An­geles, for its distance, has sponsored in recent years a very active and well-­organized Clnb. And by the very isola­tion of geography, the members like AI Scott have made a deeper study of Club' possibilities. 
On the Directorship for the 4-year term, to succeed the very efficient and faithful Frank McEeever, the Commit­tees hit upon the same familiar name, and agreed that the unanimity of thought deserved the same singleness of action. The result is the virtual elec­tion of Rev. Michael L. Moriarty, '10, pastor of St. Mary's Church, Mentor, Ohio. Father Mike, a secular 'of the Cleveland Archdiocese, has had so much background of experience outside and so much Notre Dame contact, it would be as difficult to inventory as it is to improve upon, as qualifications. 
There yon have the slate. 
The Committees, consisting of (a) M. Harry Miller, Kay J. Kelly and Frank Leahy, and (b) Timothy P. Galvin, Mai Elward, and Charies Bachman, deserve the commendation of the Association for the representative selection which the nominations reflect. 
The Ballots will be sent to the mem­bers about May 1, and a greneral vote is requested, so that the administration elected will enjoy a sense of member­ship participation. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
»

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Karen Elizabeth Olsen and Arthur Dench­ficld, '28, of Porto Alegre, Brazil. 
Miss Bemadette Perez and Paul T. Fchlie, '31, of St. I/mis, Mo. 
Miss Marilyn Hart and Robert Dillon, ex. '33, of ChicaEO. 
Miss Dorothy Brown and Edward C. Aubrey, ••10, of I/Suisville, Ky. 
Marriages 
Miss Mary Belle Visintine and John D. Igoc. *28, were married, Feb. .22, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The inarriaEe of Miss Patricia Anne Tweedy and James H. Chadwick, '32, took place, Feb. 16, in Gainesville, Fla. 
Miss Marie Hand, sister of Art Hand, ex. '36. and Dr. John T. Kane, ex. '33, were married, Feb. 1, in Binsiiamtnn, N. Y. 
"Die marriage of Miss lona Ballew and Maurice 
J. Faiihead. '35, took place, Jan. 28, in Jones­

boro. Ark. Jeremiah J. Shine, '38, was the best . man. . t 
Miss Eleanor Jane Flaherty and Jeremiah J. Shine, '38, were married, Jan. 27, in Indianapolis. Maurice Fairhead, '35, was best man. 
Miss Elizabeth Keefe and John B. 'Wheeler, Jr., 
•39, were married, Feb. 22, in the LoE Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Births 
Hr. and Mrs. J. Patridc Canny, '28, announce the birth of a daughter, recently, in Cleveland. 
A dauffhter. Ellen, was bom to Mr. -and Mrs. LoaiB J. Carr, '28, on Feb. 25, in Sea Girt, N. J. 
Mr. and Hrs. William H. Eonop, '28, announce the birth of a daughter, Bonnie Mane, on Feb. 23. in IndianapoUs, 
A dau^ter, Joanne Ellen, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Lyman H. Hill, Jr., '29. on Dec. 28, in Jackson, Blich. 
Dr^ and BIrs. Frank Panl Kane, '29, announce the birth of a daus^ter, on Feb. 17. In Chicago. 
A son, Eldon I-ewis, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Harvdd 1*. Jenninffs, '30, on March 5, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Hurray, '31, announce the birth of a son, William Lawrence, on March 1, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Tliomas E. Griffin, '33, announce the birth of a son, Thomas Eugene, Jr.. on March €. in OiicaffO. 
A son, Jerome Emmett, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. EMButt Uurphr* '33, on March 11. in Chi­caffo. 
Hr. and Mrs. Paal H. Seaman, *33, announce the birth of a son, David Edward, on Jan. 25, in Middleport. N. Y. 
A son, Arthur C.. HI, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Arthur C. Smith, '33, on March 7, in Evan­ston. 111. 
Mr. and Mrs. Harold B. X>esnoyets, *34, mn­nounce the birth of a daughter. Jean Marie, on' March 14, in Binghamton, N. Y. 
A daughter, Sharon Anne, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John F. Donnelly, '34, on Dec. 31, in Bing­hamton, N. Y. 
Mr. and Mrs. A. Francis Vitt, '34, announce the birth of a son, Thomas Gerald, on Feb. 14. in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Abraham Zoss, '38, announce the birth of a son, on March 5, in South Bend. 
A son, Robert Bredette, II, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Pick, ex. *39, on March 18. in West Bend, Wis. 
Deaths 
Dr. Robert R. Dockweilcr, B.S. '29, 34 yeats old, Los Angeles, Calif., died on Feb. 21 following a long and heroic illness. Member of an outstand­ing California family. Bob was the brother of Henry I. and Thomas A. J. Dockweiler, both *12, and Frederick O. Dockweiler, ex. '32. Four other brothers and three sisters, as well as the fattier. Isidore B. Dockweiler, survive. 
Hundreds, including Governor Culbert L. Olson and other public officials and innumerable profes­sional associates, attended the funeral services. Thirty officers of the Los Angeles Naval Reserve formed a guard of honor. Bob was a lieutenant in the Naval Reserve Medical Corps. 
Bob had attended Loyola High School in Los Angeles and Loyola College before he came to Notre Dame in 1927 to finish with the class of 1929. He took his medicine at Han-ard, 
Major Keith K. Jones, U.SJU, retired, M.E. '15, died suddenly In his home in Haw ^ on Jan. 24. News of his death had escaped the "Alunmns" until Ray Eichenlaub, president of the Alumni' Association, a classmate, teammate and close friend, heard from Mrs. Jones in early Hardu She with three children survive. 
The famous *'Deak," 48 years old, had retired from active Army service on Oct. 31, 1935, be­cause of a heart ailment. He and his family con­tinued to live in Hawaii, however, and he was the center of an increasing Notre Dame group in the islands. 
Full military honors were accorded Major Jones in his funeral. The requiem Mass was celebrated by Chaplain Patrick P. Ryan, U.S.A., in Schofield Barracks Catholic cha];>el and burial was in the Schofield army cemetery. 
"Deak" was one of the notable football figures of the Hockne - Dorais - Eichenlaub era. plajing tackle for four years and captioning the 1914 team. In his later Army service he was stationed largely at Ohio State University. Columbus', and in Hawaii. 
Edward V. Brookfield. at Notre Dame in 1911. was killed xn an airplane crash at Chattanooga, Tenn., on Feb. 22. Mr. Brookfield was bom in Cincinnati and resided there most of his life but had moved to Chattanooga shortly before his death. He was educated at the University of Cin­cinnati and the United States Naval Academy as well as at Notre Dame. 
Robert F. Appleton, ex. '42, Independence. Ohio, was killed on March 1 in a tragic automobile accident which also seriously injured his fiancee. 
Envene J. Payton, LL.B. '23, of South Bend, 
able and devoted professor of business administra­
tion at Notre Dame and state senator in Indiana, 
died on March IS after 
a long illness, distin­
guished by exemplary 
Catholic fortitude. 
Gene was buried on 
March IS following a 
solemn requiem Mass 
in St. Joseph's Church. 
South Bend, celebrated 
by Rev. John J. Cav­
anaugh, C.S.C., vice-
president of the Uni­
versity. Rev. William 
Craddick, C.S.C.. as­
Esffcne J. Payton sistant prefect of reli­
gion, was deacon, and Rev. Joseph D. Barry. C.S.C, assistant pastor of St. Joseph's, was sub-deacon. The sermon was preached by Rev. Wendell P. Corcoran. C.S.O,, pastor of St. Joseph's. Among the pallbearers were John E. Mclntyre. '31, Bernard J. Voll. '17, and Aaron H. Huguenard, *22. as well as Dr. Karl Menger and Prof. William D. Rollison. of the University faculty. 
Surviving Gene are his wife and four children and three brothers and five sisters. 
Gene was bom in Dunmore, Pa., on March 28, 1893. He was graduated from Grove City College in 1916 and came to Notre Dame as a student of law in 1920, shortly after conspicuous service as a first lieutenant in the first World War. He joined the faculty as a teacher of business law even before he received his LL.B. in 1923. 
Until 1926 he was engaged in trust work with the Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland. Return­ing to Notre Dame and South Bend he taught in the College of Commerce and was executive man­ager and credit adviser of the South Bend Asso­ciation of Credit Men, as well as attorney and executive of the National Association of Credit Hen for the northern Indiana and southern Mich­igan area. 
Gene was formerly president of the University Club, a, former vice-chairman of the industrial relations committee of the Association of Com­merce and formerly vice-president of the South Bend Rotary Club. He also was a member of the International Relations Forum, the Knife and Fork Club, and the St. Joseph County Bar Asso­oation. 
He stepped from a quiet, but highly successful, educational and business life into political life in 1938 when he became the Democratic candidate, and later nominee, for state senator. He won the office and was looked upon in his first general assembly session in Indianapolis in January, 1939, as one of the senate's most capable members. 
As a senator representing St. Joseph county. Gene was first placed on the important good roads committee and on June 24. 1939, he was made a 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
member of the special committee appointed by former Gov. M. Cliftord Townsend to study tax conditions in Indiana and to devise a tax program for the Indiana lesislatnre. 
For the University, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, O.S.C., vice-president, said: 
"The University, administration, faculty and students deeply mourn today the loss of an out­standing faculty member. Ptof. Eugene Payton came to Notre Dame in 1920» shortly after the first world war in which he had participated as a first lieutenant. His competence in the class­room, his profound knowledge of law and of practical affairs made him a leader on the cam­pus and in the legislative chambers of the state. His value to the University as a professor and as an influence upon the boys can hardly be over­estimated." 
The "Alumnus" extendi sincere sympathy to Richard D. Vtity, '17, upon the death of his mother; Walter A. Sweeney, '21, upon the death ot his mother; Vincent J. Brown, '23, upon the death of his mother: Prof. Frank W. Kelly, ta)on the death ot his mother; William E. Merriman, '25, upon the death of his infant son; John E., '27, and Carl H. Graning, "30, upon the death ot their father; Joseph P. Kisslingr, '28, upon the death ot his father; John H. Conlin, ^30, upon the death of his mother; Howard DeVanlt. '32, upon the death of his mother; Zigmund Kitkaw­ski, '33, upon the death of his mother; James J. Dntton, '36, upon the death of his father: John Monahan, '40, upon the death of his father. 
Persoflo/s 
Before 1890 
Camp, New Orieans. La. From P. E. Barke: 
BC. H. Rodiert, '87, has been paying a visit to his daughter. Dr. Frances C. Rothert. He now lives at Camden, Ark., with his son, who is in the wholesale furniture business. Mr. Kothert re­called many pleasant happenings durins his stay at Notre Dame in the '80's. Three of his sons were educated at Notre Dame, and I believe that his grandsons have followed in his footsteps. 
Patrick E. Barke, '89. and his son. Bolan. '27, are taking a motor trip in April to New York where they will meet Margaret Gibbons Burke, who has been a librarian in the New York Public Library and will return to New Orleans by easy stages visitinff in Boston, Washington, Baltimore. Savannah and Charleston, also WilUamstown. During the month of June they will go to Notre Dame for the Commencement; later visiting in Detroit, Chicago and Powers, Mich., before going to St .Paul for the Eucharistic Congress. 
Rt. Rev. Hssr. J. J. Barke, '83, pastor of S t Mark's church. Peoria, III., for the past 30 years and the oldest active priest in the Peoria diocese, retired from his pastorate March 1. Mon­signor Burke, who observed his 84th birthday recently, took up residence at St. Francis hospital 
in Peoria.  
1890-99  B«r. J. A. HacNuura. -ST. Salat JoKph'a SaBlterlnB,  
Mboat Clameni, lOcUtaB.  

SO-Year Reunion 
Qass of 1891 
May 30, 31, June I 

1900-04 ^'"^ ^ Pnctor. '04, 
Bvfldtng. Efthart, ladbaa. 
BcT. Ikomaa R. Bufce, C&CL. 

1905-09 
'07. Notn Daae. Indina. 

At the 57th annual banquet ot the Hibernian Club of South Bend in the Oliver Hotel, Father EuEcne P. Barke, CS.C., '06, was toastnaster, and also save two vocal selections. Lewis J. Mar­phy, *26, spoke and Georce T. KoA, '25, sans. John Berzan, '31, and Orrille Foster, '40, asasted with the planning. 
19i n RcT-H. L. Hoiiarty. S t Haiy'a Gkaidi. 
• ' • ^ Mentor. Ohio. 
I Q l I Fred Stccra, 1C6« Fint Natiaaal Baak 
• ' • • BnOdbw, Chleaso, nBno!.. 
191 2 ^ ''' ^*''*'> ' ^ Foortli St . riMa­
• ' ' * borsh. PennsylTaaia. 
IQI ^ Pul B. Byrne. Unirerdty Ukmr, 
' ' * * Notre Dame, Indiana. 
 H. Hayes, 642 TUrd AT«^ 

1914 Frank 
Chnla ^sta, CsHfomia. 

From Frank Hayes: 
I went to Los Angeles to spend a day with the Bemie Volls, and spent a week. They had come out here for some California sunshine, hut we only dished them out rain. 
We were joined by Bernie's friend, Blaney Matthews, personnel manager at Warner Brothers Studio, for lunch one day and he invited the business manager of Warner Brothers to have lunch with us. When the latter arrived at the table. I was struck by the fact that I either knew him or had known him some time in the past. After a few minutes of conversation, he stated that he had formerly attended Notre Dame and he proved to be none other than Camd Sax, who • had been in law class with me for two years. Needless to say, we spent almost the remaindet of the day at the luncheon table discussing the boys that he had known at Notre Dame. His folks still live in Chicago and he has promised to pay Notre Dame a visit the next time he goes cast. 
Frank Malcahey of our campus days is now Colonel Mulcahey of the United States Marines, located at the Marine Base. San Diego. 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter L. Clements of South Bend spent several days visiting at our home in Ghula Vista during the month of February. 
I QI C Junes B. SanfoH, S725 CBntoii Av*,. 
• ' • ' Berwyn, Illinois. 
Harold H. Manger was recently elected presi­dent of the Toledo. Ohio, chapter of the American Institute of Architects. 
1916 Ttaodv P. Cdria. FInt Tm l i>r. Haauioa^ ladiaaa. 
25-year Reunion 
Class of 1916 
May 30, 31, June I 

Jose Federico Munecas is now employed at tech­nical director ot the Laboratories Lex, S. A., and is living at Mendoza entre Nunez y Buena-vista, Reparto Columbia, Marianao, Cuba. 
I T I # Bi^j^ Ckrdand Hdflit.^ OU*. 
1918 John A. Lcmiaer. Ml Lake flk»t» Diin, Eicanaba, Mlflil»«n. 
IQI 0 darenca Bader, tSt Pterc* Static 
• TI T GaiT, Indiana. 
Vm m. Wu< i(U BUA MUm^ Vm

1920 
.Aatdn, GaBfanda. 

i*mta L. Tiaat. chief eneineer with the Brown-Brockmeyer Co.. Dayton, Oliio, manotaeturer of electric motors, is In search of a younf electrical-engineer. Jim recently wrote to the Placement Bureau. 
 W. Dii^. IIN Tamiaal Tkwv, 

1921 Dm 
GkTdari, Okfa. 
20-year Reunion 
Class of 1921 
May 30, 31, June I 
G.raU AAa. *t W«* ATOHW. Haita. 

1922 S? 
From Kid Adw: 
In delightful columnist style come some crisp flashes from Chicago to acquaint us with nj^-to­date information about our representatives in that area. The author is probably Winchell or Jerry Dixon. Anyway, here they are: 
Frank BC Ha^ws — Bom T — employed Ghica­lio Title and Trust Company — weight. 299 lbs. 
— undernourished — married — one child — a good citizen — a Christian gentleman — in slip­I>ers after 6:00 p.m. 
EauBctt B«rke — contractor — seldom seen in alumni circles — home man — clips coupons. 
Ben Sasen — Phoenix I^e CompaJoy — & man about town — dilettante — epicurean — hard to reach on tel^hone — secretary takes messages — fat and forty (not easily led). 
Tom HcCake — lawyer — knows his way around — recreation dominoes. 
John Paol CaOeii — claims division of TT. S. 
Veterans Bureau since Cleveland's first adminis­
tration — will be entitled to pension in another 
year — married — loves checkers. 
Harold HeKec — catalogue publishing business 
— married -*— one child — sportsman — polo and big game hunting. 
m a^ n Pa«l B. CastBcr. 137 Swth Ave, New I ' ^ a Canaaa, CMuaectkat. 
John Nicfaalas McCahe is living at 12 Westgate Road. Asheville. N. C. and is. on the staff of an Asheville newspaper. His brother, Clarence, is with the N.C.W.O. in Washington. D. C. 
Father Leo R. Ward, CS.C, recently addressed the faculty and students of St. Mary's college. Notre Dame, on the "Nova Scotia Cooperatives and the Human Reason.'* Father Ward has made a deep study and personal investigation of the Nova Scotia cooperatives. 
%Q^A J- F. nmfm, S9S Till Am» 
uu. 

RaynMnd A. Haycr, H.A., '24. has resigned as case work snjiervisor of the St. Joseph County Department of Public Welfare. Sooth Bend. Rar had previously been on the faculty at Notre Dame, in the Department of Social Work, re­signing -when the K. of C. discontinned its boy guidance program at Notre Dame. He has ac­cepted an appointment as organizer of commun­ity service nnder the ofHce of the coordinator for health, welfare and related defense aetivitiea. a division of the Federal Security Agency. He has become coordinator for the Chicago area, \rith offices in Chicago. His work will be concerned with leisure-time activities in communities adja­cent to militazy establishments. 
22 
10 9 c Jo*» P- Hnricy, 2085 Brookdale Bomi, I TA 9 XBle*>, Ohio. 
From John Hniiey: 
1*0 Powen^ letter missed last month's deadline 
but made this one to the day, and it was most 
welcome. I almost had to duplicate Ronan's '26, 
blank of last month. Leo Tn-ote: 
"I am sorry that I wasn't in my office when you called on the occasion of your recent visit to Chicago. I could then have related some of the information that I shall attempt to furnish to you now. After your many years of industrious eHort in keeping all of us advised of the where­abouts and doings of our former classmates, I could not now let you dou-n on your request for 'news items.' 

"You will be interested in knowing that Joe Toolen paid Edward F. O'Toolc and myself a visit while in Chicago a month or more ago. I hadn't seen Joe since iast Commencement time — though he hasn't changed since then. Occasion­ally I meet up with Howard Spencer, who is ac­tively engaged in the brokerage of real estate and located on the south side of Chicago. 
"You will remember George Ward for bis tal­ents in voice and golf. I don't know whether his golf game has deteriorated, but recently I- found him in our parish church choir — St. Gertrude's. Although he no longer resides in St. Gertrude's parish, he returns occasionally to reWve his glee club talents. He is now a super\*isor of one of the Chicago offices of the Prudential Insurance Company. 
**In a recent issue of the 'Alumnus,' Jack Scal­lan mentioned Joe Shelly. I frequently see Joe and report him well established at the Chicago Title and Trust Company. Not many days agd, I saw Bcmie Uvergood, now with the Illinois Traveling Hen's Health Association here in the city. There may be others that I could report on, bnt at the moment I can't recall them. 
"Recently I moved my office to the above ad­dress, and I sincerely trust that when you are in Chicago you w*ill do me the pleasure of calling in to see me. (77 W. Washington Street, Chicago.)" 
Hianks, Jjeo. Now that we have beard from the imd*west, let's hear from Callinan and any of the crowd from the West, and Spike McAdams. John Bartley and Jade Shechan. 
Robert D. O'Neil, the famous "Slick," is an as^stant enejneer on a water filtration plant construction in the city of Chicago, ^ s home address is 5525 S. Peoria St., Chicago. 
Anstin S. Reilly, E.E., '25. is living at 76 Salem Road, White PIMUS, N . Y . He's in actu­arial work with the Metropolitan Iiife and doing well at it, according to an eastern scout. He and his former roommate, Bbc Bmle of General Elec­tric, are neighbors. 
Adam Walsh, of front and center memories, now head coach at Bowdoin up there in Maine, was on the campus in late March to inspect the Leahy troops. Adam was on his way to speak al the Rockne breakfast of the Cleveland Club on March 30. 
1926 jBBca A. BonaB, 127 N. Dearborn St, CUcara, IIHBois. 
IS-Year Reunion Class of 1926 May 30, 31, June I 

From Jim Bonan: It was mighty thoughtful, Doolcy, of the author­ities to declare a national holiday on May 30, so 
The Notre Dame Atumnus 
that these members of the class of 1926 will be able to check in early for the 15-year reimion. Friday, May 30, is a red-letter day on every cal­endar, and it should certainly be a red-letter dar for all of us. Saurday. May 31, and Sunday. Jane 
I. will be big days also. 
The reservations are coming in slowly, but there are still a large number who have not yet replied. It's imirartant that we know approximately how many members of the class will be on hand, so that we can tell the cook how many steaks to fry for the reunion luncheon Saturday noon, and bow many rooms the "housing committee" should hold for the '26 gang. 
The local contingent is planning big things for the week-end, a program everyone will enjoy. Come early Friday and stay late Sunday; bnt whatever you do — don't miss! If you have not returned your "questionnaire" DO IT NOW. 
•tUHle OflMw 
ITA / Notto Dame, Ludlana. 
1 09 D Loots F. Baddsy, Box 124. N«tre 
•'^« » IndUna. 

From Lou Backley: 
AVhen our guest writer, John Igoe, called a few weeks ago, to let me know he was to be married the following day in the Log Chapel. I had mis­givings about hearing from him this month. He fooled me, however, by meeting the deadline with more than enough news for you to digest during the next 30 days when we hope to he with yon again with a report on the hibernating engineers from Larry Wingerter and some news from Art Stenias from Detroit. 
In exploring the possibility of getting someone to arouse the en^neers, X wrote to Leo Srfi«Mwis asking for some aid. I find, however, that the Army heat me to it, as Leo is now with the ISSth F.A., SSth Diviaon, at Camp Shelby. Miss. 
John Igoe writes as follows from Kansas City, Mo., where he 'is divisional sales manager for the National Tube Company: 
"Have been struggling most of the day trying to decide whether to write you or concentrate on the form I must submit to Uncle Sam next Satmv day. You can chalk up a victory for the "Alum­nus." 
"First off, I regret very much that I did not see you while I was on the campus recently, bnt I was not only busy with the few guests and fewer arrangements, but was a trifle on the nervous side. For some reason or other, I was of the opinion I would be the last bachelor of the class of '28, but you can tell from CSiariie Holer's letter, which I am enclosing, that he has outlasted both Jack Wtngerter and me. It was something of a shock to see notice of Wink's marriage In the last "Alumnus," but nothing in comparison to the one I got when I found myself Icti^TiTig in front of Father Gallagan and saying "I do.*' On our way back from South Bend we sb^iped off in Chicago and had a splendid visit with Didc Pfaelan. He had just come out of the hospital where he spent several weeks trying to overcome the ravages of sciatica and, though he was cer­tainly in no shape to do any cross-country work, he was his usual entertaining self. 
"Dick, as you probably know, is associated with the Chicago l^tle & Trust, is married and has two fine, husky boys. After dinner Pa«I ToUn came over and.the three of us regaled the women with wild stories of our collegiate antics. Paul is a bachelor (I am afraid he has two strikes on him) and a highly successfuly medico in Elgin, his home town. His brother, Jim. is now married and is also establishing an enviable reputation as a doctor. Phelan told me he had seen Owt Siee recently. Chet is the Ohio representative for some roofing concern, is happily married and pleasantly settled in Columbus, Ohio. 
"Last Thursday, my friend Henry IbssHam bad as a guest at the Kotary luncheon, one JaMCs Patrick Canny, counselor-at-law, Cleveland. Ohio. He's still the same Fat and what our visit lacked in length it made up in pleasantness, ^er e was a big session at Borne Ihigan's bouse that night but unfortunately I was unable to attend and cannot, therefore, submit the minutes. Speaking of Henry Massman, he is, at the present moment, about the busiest "Notre Darner" I know, what' with a couple of bridges and an ordnance plant to build. But, he was not too busy to manage my wedding and did a reasonably good job of ironing out those details that can be so bothersome. £bnk is married and have five beautiful children. 
"Another member of our class whom I see occa­

rionally is John Cariin, the Salina rancher. Not long ago he burst into my room just after dawn . and got off a line of chatter that Bob Hope would be proud to use on bis radio show. He spent most of the morning with me and reported all well in the cattie and wheat bu^ness. He also told me that Norfc Skelley is doing well by himself in the role d Salina's outstanding bachelor apothe­cary. Last fall Jim Harrigan was in town as rep­resentative of some government agency or other. He was, you will recall. Father O'DonneU's secre­^ary during our era. and is now located in Wash­ington. He gave me very favorable reports on that well-known group of Pittsburgbers: Turk Mein­ert, Lee Sdmeider, Dr. Haggerty, Jade Sheedy. 
and Bolt StrickeL 
"I met Emmett Barron in front of the Cathedral here one Sunday. If I recall correctly he is still a badielor and is working for some insurance com­pany in Iowa. He was enroute to Wichita, and looked just as trim as he did when he was scoring Xmints for our track team. I wish, Louie, that you wculd call WiUard Wagner and thank him for all the help he gave me in completing wedding ar­rangements. 
"And that, Louie, just about sums up my story for this time. So long as I have the opportunity, to do so. I am going to send my best wishes to all the members of our class. Should any of you be in the vicinity of Kansas City do not hesitate to call me and I will do all in my power to make your visit enjoyable." 
Doirfcy has asked me to conserve on space, so. in order to avoid a si>ecial assessment on *28 men for extra ^ace, I will summarize the con­tents of the letters which Igoe enclosed. 
Ouriey Homer writes from St. Louis where he is covering southeast Missouri, offering Red Ring cemenb for sale. Charley had jtist returned &om Miami where he found that Pinkey Mnlaney was the manager for the southern %istrict of the Walgreen Drug Co., He had also seen Bob How-land, '25, who is still with the Missouri Pacific and is located in New Orleans. He mentioned that Bin KOoren was among those leaving St. Louis . for the army. Jony Wrape also plans to leave soon for military service. Charley also stated that be saw Carroll Pinkley in St: Louis a few months ago. George Kelley dropped a note from Youngs­town, Ohio, where he is with the "Youngstown Vindicator." 
Here is a quotation from a letter from John Basckemeyer from Ixniisville City Hospital: **Tnasfaber has mentioned several times that he has seen yon in Missouri bnt now Traughber has disappeared, or at least as far as I am con­cerned he has. He usually wrote at least every several months and stopped by Louisville on his way to and from Clarksville but I have heard nothing &om him since October. I presume the Treasury Department is still honored by his ser­vices. 
**As you have proibably heard through Traagh­ber, I am married to Helen Sherman (nster of Kn SherMan, class of *30). We have two daugh­ters and one son. I am still suj>erintendent of the CS^ Hospital where I have been for the past seven years." 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
To complete the roundup of news, John en­eloied the foUowins fine response from our old friend Hsn r COBICT. who writes as follows from HH S. First St., Fulton, N. Y., where he is praetidns law: 

"lliere are very few Notre Dame men in this vicinity. There is, of course, Ed Byrne in Syra­cuse, bat, £d was at least two years ahead of us. I tiiink yoa remember him. Be lived \rith tu at Brownson Hall durins our freshman year. He has a fine position with the Travelers Insurance Ckim­pany in Syracuse and is dolus exceptionally well. Last fall, Lariy Cnlliney, with a band of bank examiners for the FDIC, examined the bank here in Fulton that I am attorney for, and Larry and 1 had several interesting 'hull sessions." 
"Every fall Mrs. Conley'and I manage to make the Notre Dame-Army game and we are usually fortunate enoush to run into a few of the boys from our class. Last fall at the rally at the Com­modore Hotel, I saw Art Oenchfield, Bcmie Gar­ter, Ji n Conmey, Bob Hamilton, Bill Cronin, and Jack LaveUe. Since graduatins from law school, 1 have been practicing law here in the city of Fulton and for the past few years have been corporation counisel and this fall the local 'machine' plans to run me for the city court judge. 1 have been married for the past eight years and have three'children, two girls and a boy, all of whom are healthy, thank'God. 
"I have often wondered what has happened to Dntdk Holland, Charlie McKinney, Nigger Egan, Wid l.awlcr and some of the other boys whose names do not often appear in the 'Alumnus.*" 
Loa Carr sent me a letter .from Ralph Garza from Hacienda De Anhelo, Goah, Mexico, in re­sponse to his appeal for news from the engineers a few months ago. We appreciate your letter, Ralph, and would like to take you up on the offer to send on further information on Notre Dame men living in Mexico. You are to consider your­self the foreign correspondent for the class of *28. Before giving you Ralph's letter, 1 should like to note that Lou Carr reports that the three members of his family whom he reported on in his last .letter have now increased to four. Ellen was bom Feb. 23. Congratulations, Lou. Here is Ralph Garza's letter: 
"Believe it or not, I have my 'sheepskin* at home, especially due to the fact that, as you note from the letterhead. 1 am doing a bit of farming. Hy knowledge of Electricals does not hamper me at all in farming, and since I have found it more profitable to farm, produce 'Gandelilla' wax, and the like, 1 have turned down offers to work for the 'Cia. Naclonal de Electricidad' which is the name Electric Band and Share Co. carries in its letter-heads. I drive a Cadillac though, so you can see that this farming business is not what it used to be. 
"About a month ago, I was in Mexico City, and had a chance to see Guillernio Alvarez Horphy, *31 O.E., who is doing anite well. I also met Carlo* Palomino, B.SJI.E. *27, who is working vrith the Uexiean Power and Light Co. He told me Rafael Gomez, B.S.M.E. '27. and Vicente Go­mez, B.S.E.E. '27, as well as Francisco Castro Berrers, B.S.E.E. '27, were also doing well with the same company. 
"In Monterey, N.L., Mexico, I have seen, now and then Koddto Trevino, B.S.KE. '25, and his brother, Joae Trevino, B.S.E.E. *25. I have not seen lately, but am informed Fernando Trevino, B.SJIR '27, is getting along well enough man­aging a stone^iuany his father owned. Needless to say, all, except Ratad Gomez, are married and with successors (including myself.) 
"My brother Oscar E. Garza. Jr., B.S.E.E. '27, is getting rich as part owner and manager of a large hardware firm. Cia. Fenetera del Bajio, 
a A. 
"Business in Mexico seems to be picking up, and all seem rather enthnsiastie about the new (Mexican) president who has shown a bit of in­clination to the rijjit; we all hope Ihat in about a year or two the slia^tly ri^ t will be dtter­minedly so. 
"Again, I am sorry to have passed up my dianee 

of sending an answer sooner. If yon or Irris 
Bnddcy want news from Mexico more oftm, let 
'me know. I will try to send memoranda as to 
what I may perceive." 
1990 ^—-^ P- Hdfuuua. AttenMr On­
•'* ' --^11 I, HI f,a„. 

From Joe McNamara: 
In this age of chiselry it's a welcome experienee to meet up with an idealist whom skeptic poison­ing has passed by. A ^ring tonic for mind and spirit is Detroit's Public Energy No. 1 — Ait Stenius. Since Notre Dame days Art has traveled much and studied more. For example: he's put in all of the necessary work and passed all of the examinations, etc, essential before receiving hia FhJ). Sweden, Norway, France, Italy, England and Ohio State U., were the scenes of his scbo­iastie endeavors. In between he's been a force in Detroit's public high school system. Art's wife is one of those charming personalities whose pret­ence make any occasion a jubilee. Art's energy and straight thinking are phenomenal — and when he gets "warmed up" to a subject under discussion he makes facts and figures sound like a bugle call. All in all, your secretary's vidt with the Stenius household will always remain « part of his unforgettables. 
Now that the taxpaying ides of March have passed and you've coughed up to Uncle Samuel for reckless thriving, your thou^ts may quite natur­ally be on Washington, the city bureanfol. Newest addition to the '29 garrison there is lieutenant John V. Hinkel, who is with the Army Intelli­gence Division. John gave up his dashing Bidiard Harding Davis role of war correspondent and hia post with "The New York Tlmes^' to assist the Army. With him in Washington is his new wife who, incidentally, makes the old heart tingle like ginger ale. Next month's '29 colunm will be by John Hinkel, so don't miss it. I 
While John isn't listening, allow me to nomi­nate as Washington's hardest worker: Dave Ltk­man whom we always proudly designate as "for­merly of the 'Juggler' staff T' Dave knows more about inter-departmental Washington than most uny other man, — and is an expert on defense maneuvering. Despite the fact that his hoes, the Senator, is noted for having given the best jeers of his life to the Administration, dapper David can get things done most anywhere that the flag flies. He's kept up the old technique of putting words on paper a bit more fascinatingly than anyone else, so when his term of office is up yoa can expect some great stories and magazine arti­cles. . . . Which reminds me that Harry Sylvester. now of "Collier's** and "Post** fame, is definitely in the front rank of American writers. I hope to do a "Personality on Parade" sketch on him for you at an early date. 
Perhaps you haven't heard of it, but we've practically had a threatened dvil uprising right here in these United States. For the dtizens of Bedford. Ind., were determined that thdr popular newly-api>ointed 'mayor. Clarence Deaovan, should not be drafted. 'When Uncle Samuel's nephews on the local Draft Board weighed all of the evidence they agreed to defer calling handsome bachelor "Oonie" though they sighed at having to pass by the splendid physique that made "Oonie" an Ail-American basketball star for famed Dr. George Kcogan. 
My amiable roommate. Frank P^ McCarthy, has taken up the Japanese national hobbly: i.e., col­lecting China. The reason: beauteous Rosemaiy Nagelson and Frank were log-chapeled at Notre Dame recently. Frank is still the finance' offieer of 'Van Camp's Condensed Milk Company with headquarters at Fort Wayne, Ind. By the way. 
hia new residence adrlnwia: 3M lUzWd Manor. Don't miss callias FVank when yoD*ra in Foct Wayne. 
Ji a Beckaiac hat recently been appointed aaa ­ager of the inter-atate claims section of flw T«Jt­<na UnemploTiaent Goaaienaation Divbioa. Jia^ still a very elisible badiehir indeed, keqpa that coUege-boy figoie by frequent iailiee to flw Hoosier Athletie Club. He haai*t »i—^igr* a li t since campns days and is still aa popular aa ever. Incidentally, Jim succeeded Jaha Carr who re­dgned from the State Merit Service to aeetvt a 
- responsible post with the Allisoa Engineering Di­vision of General Motors at Indianapolis. 
Headliner in Indiana*a turbulent pftijtS'Til ^e ­tore since January has been •yrmf, wffnNit Ctesg* 
N. Beaawr. George is the new attorney seneral. of Indiana, and as sndi, has won sincere commen­dation from the usually critical In£ana preSK as wen as from dvie organizations and even politieal foes. George, who has been dty jtidge of South Bend, a vigorous crusading proaeeuting attorney, dty attorney, and candidate for Congress. ta<A over the attorney general's oSiee daring the nost trying times in icecnt In£ana history. Tnm the start, his unhesitating nolicy of fair draling to an, his ahiUty to keep his head when everyone else was intent upon losing theirs, and his bril­
'lianee as a lawyer and leader, marked him as bdng head and shoulders above the crowd. He*n be glad to greet yoa at 219 State House, Indian­apolis. 
The Kni^ts of Columbus have their equivalent of Notre Dame's famed Laetare Medal in Uie annual Catholic Action award. This year it went to *28er Beary Hasisr of Fort Wayne. Henrr, who is state advocate of the K. of C, as weU aa state chairman of Catfaolie Activity, was hdlad by Supreme Master KaMtky' P. GaMa. State Deputy Barry Kinzel and thoosands of others aa "the most deserving dKace.** Hasley has canaed hundreds of new^aper artides nplainfnr tiie Faith to be publidied throu^ont Infiana and haa carried on an extensive correspondence growtniT out of these articles with many people who other­wise would not have access to such infigmation. He has made eoontlesa .speedies on Catholic Ac­tion, and preached to at least one Indiana Protes­tant congregation. Chairman of the award com­mittee was Jeha Btcap, district deputy of the K. of C. in IncBanapolis. 
Rer. Jaacph D. Barry, C.S.C "79. assistant pastor at St. Joseph's in Sooth Bend, recently reedved a eommisdon as first lieutenant from the war department and was asdgned to AMIen^, Texas, where he win serve as diaplain.in an army camp. 
Jade Saaike still looks as thoa^ he could step into a relay team as he represents the Copwles Detergent Co. in the Detroit area. Jade recently moved to Detroit from Oonnecticnt. He can be reached in care of the Ecdestone Chemical Co.. 2669 Guoin St. 
»l««iwdtiPr, 

1930 M*^*­
F^^mi Didc Deneghae: Again onr thanks go to eadi who haa re­sponded to our request for news, and we eneotir­age others to write us a "line" of personal items. The maj<»ity who read these exhortations think that we direct them to "the other fdlow." But this time we mean YODI 
JuA Hcatr, of the Hayes-Healy Travd Bo­rean, Chicago, responds to onr appeal for news, with the foUowing: 
"X am associated with my wife and fatiier^n­law in the above-mentioned business, and we'cper­ate Vanderlnit Better Tours to all points. Ftor 15 years we organized and conducted iar the Carmelite Fathen of Chicago, their annual little 
Flower pilsrimages. I guess it will be a good many years before "we escort trips abroad again. I get down to Notre Dame once or twice a year, and attended our 10th Beunion." 

Thanks, Jack, for the news about the travel business. I sort of expected Uncle Sam to arrange a booking for me into the Southland this year, but I find that my local board number is high, and the fear of mountains of potatoes to l>eel has subsided. 
Charlie J. EsoU. president of the East Chicago Bar Association of East Chicago. Ind., gives the typewriter the following gracious work-out: 
••Ben Schwartz still is chief deputy attorney in the prosecutor's office of Lake County, Ind., and is unmarried. Roger Callahan is practicing law in East Chicago, and is associated with his brother. Judge Thomas Callahan. '31. Roger is married and has three children. Thad Havran is also practicing law in East Chicago, and is mar­ried and has one child. Raymond Young is prac­ticing law' in Hammond, Ind., and is married, and has one child. As for myself. I am practicing law here, and \\-as elected president of the Bar Association for the ensuing year. I am married and have one child. If you need any more news, just write." 
Your correspondent always needs news. Charlie, and greatly appreciates your writing to us. Hope you can unlimber the fingers again soon, with more East Chicago news on those of our crowd there. 
Joe Lordi. of the Kew York Athletic Club, is doing a fine job in the National Amateur Squash tennis tourney in New York City. As this is being written. Joe approaches the finals in a promising style, having defeated Barry Ryan, Jr., of the Yale Club. [Ed's note: Joe won the champion­ship.] KaH Brennan, of the "W. T. Grant Co. de­partment stores, has been transferred to South Bend. Ind., and writes to inquire if we have had any recent word from his old gang. [Sec note: No. Earl, I have not, and will pass on any news as I receive it later, on.] 
We have had a most interesting and thought-provoking letter {rom Rev. Richard J. Grimm. C.S.C.* superior of Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame. Ind., ns follows: 
•Tfour letter came in the midst of a pile of corresi>ondence. Sorry I didn't get at this sooner. George Weber, Jr., wrote a nice letter about his Catholic Action group in Olney. 
"Of the whereabouts of the members of the class who are priests and brothers, J do not know. Unfortunately, I can give you but a few items on Father Brown and Father Craddidc. 
Tather Brown is deep in mathematical tomes and conducting fine classes in 'math' at the Uni­versity of Portland. IGs winning personality and scholarly way of teaching has won friends for him right and left. 
"Father Craddidc who is assistant prefect of religion, is up to his neck in work dealing with sophomoric sophomores at Notre Dame. As a side­line he is teaching religion, preaching, visiting the sick, giving sound advice to troubled juniors, helping to e^t the 'Religious Bulletin.' No won­der he can't put on any weight. 
"Here at the seminary we are deeply interested in getting more vocations. If you happen to meet any likely candidate for the priesthood, have him drop me a line. 
"Here's a suggestion: Why not conduct a Relir gious Survey of the *30 class *? 
"With every best wish for a fast Lent, and with kindest personal regards to all." 
Many thanks. Father, for the interesting letter. As to 3rour suggestion about a religious survey of the class: your secretary likes the idea, and thinks it would be a very informative group of statistics. 
Ways and means will have to be found to de&ay the cost of this enterprise, if it finds general favor among the membership of the class. Ideas on the subject by postal card will be greatly ap­preciated on this subject, so we will look forward to comments from the class, before proceeding to e?cpIore the next step. More comments on this suggestion later. 
Do Macy's tell Gimbel's? Evidently they do, because yours truly has received a letter from Tim Toomey, the newly-elected secretary of the New York alumni club. One would assume that he finds it difficult enough to gather news to fill his own column, but the following letter illustrates that his generosity knows no bounds: 
"Your last journalistic effort which included the newsy review from Jack Cannon, the recent benedict, has made some of us think that yoQ omitted several of Jack's breezy comments, al­though you did include some. [Sec note: Jack promised to \\-rite for another future issue, and we will let the case be tested by what he sends us to include in the class notes.] 
"It was good to hear about the Columbus crowd, and also from Jack. The news from the west coast has always been scarce — how about a word from Dong Daley and Freddie PfapM on the status of 'all the lads' in that part of the country? The safety and security of these United States are not in jeopardy now, because Tom Cu ­ningham is doing his conscription 'hitch* at New Cumberland, Pa., where he has been. assigned as a recreational director. Larry Cronin has returned to New York from Elmiro, N. Y., his home town. and he is now with the Hardware Mutual Insur­ance Co. as a special agent. Jim Rizer, formerly employed by the welfare division of the state of New York, is now the eastern representative of a large publishing house, and he is headquartering in Towanda, Pa,, for the future. 
"Judge Con Carey, the youngest coun^ judge in New York State, is sitting in Kings County here to assist with the crowded court calendars ' during March. He will -probably listen to the evi­dence in some of the famous 'Murder, Inc.* cases. Con was at the last meeting of the New York club, and he looks in the pink of good healtii. He reports that his brother-in-law, Harry Lantry, is doing well in Malone, N. Y. Con had lunch the other day with Tom Lantry and Warren Focd, prior to an afternoon court session at which Tom and Warren were interested spectators, Warren, incidentally, is the new president of the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York. Frank Dmn has left the Ford Motor Company to take a jKni­tion with Hopper-Holmes, a statistical organisa­tion for insurance companies. 
•'Tim O'Ronrke has returned from Pittsburg, and he has a year of local background to catdi up on. Tom Murphy and Bos Bedgate, represent­ing the Connecticut Valley delegation, were in New York for the ND.-N.Y.U. basketball game. and they report that everything is under control in the nutmeg state." 
Tim covered quite a bit of ground, after all. for us, so it's no more than just that you turn now to his notes on the New York club. 
Bemie W. Conroy, of 504% Fifth Ave., New Kensington, Pa., crashes under the wire with a few lines, and, being the pioneer of this column, as all know, we invite him to come in with a, longer letter at some future date. Bernie was gen­erous in his praise of the various letters printed by this column from various members of the class, and we mention it only to ^u r everyone who writes to us to emulate the all-out spirit of the writers of these letters. Bemie goes on to say: 
•Tom Cnnningham was working for the Jones & Laughlin Steel Co. in Pittsburf^, when draft number 17 shoulder-blocked him into the Army. VLe is now in the 1301st Service Unit, New Cum­berland. Fa. He writes that he likes it a lot. Hie Howie Smith* have a son, Charles Howard, who was bom on Jan. 4. Congratulations! I have not been down to Pittsburgh lately, so I do not have much news. I live IS nulcs up the Allegheny River from downtown Pittsburgh. I am sUlI employed by the Pennsylvania State Employment Service. If you come out this way, let me hear from you. Give my best wishes to the fellows in New York 
— O'Roarke, Rizer, Fogel and Tom Sheen." 
Tlianks, Bernie, and come in again with some dots and dashes on the *30 crowd in and around Pittsburgh — soon! 
Al Cnlver has sent along a couple of follow-up comments, saying that he saw Ray Riordan about six months ago. Ray is in the law business, and, at the time, he was living in Waukegan. Al also met Art Petersen and his wife in Evan­ston. III., about a year ago, and he says that Art has not changed a bit since leaving school. Al closes with the promise of more news later on, and to that we add our wish to hear from him soon. 
The last mail has brought us the "anchor man" for the mad dash which these notes must make to Bin Dooley's desk to make this month's deadline, and we introduce none other than the Honorable Clarence J. Donovan, mayor of the dty of Bed­ford, Ind, [Sec note: Give him an overture, pro­fessor, because we knew him all the time despite that stiif monicker.] Oonle comes through with a pack of news, so we'll let him tell it, as follows: 
"It was indeed a pleasure to receive your letter, despite the fact that you have appointed me your number one 'snooper' in the middle West, for the ' class of 1930. After this effort, I am just begin­ning to ^predate the difficulties that confront the class secretary. [Sec. note: One really needs a couple of Wire Services for news, and. lacking them, that's why the appeal for news is never slackened.] Much of the information that I will give you, will, no doubt, be somewhat out of date, but I will try to give you a complete report on the fellows I have seen, or heard from, in the past year. 
"Just before Christmas, I met Gns Bondi in Bidianapolis, where he is now engaged in the in­surance business. Gus is married, and appears to he in good physical trim. He should still be able to turn in a rugged game of football. I had lunch a few weeks ago with John Rocap, who is prac­tidng law in IndianaxKiIis, as member of the firm 
^ Rocap & Rocap. John is doing very well: he is married and has three fine children. I frequently see my basketball partner of old, Ed Smith, who is practidng law in South Bend. Ed has ascended to a hisji political elevation in the Republican party in St. Joseph county. Marshall Kizer, for­merly the prosecuting attorney of Marshall coun­ty, is now engaged in the private practice of law in Pljrmouth, Ind. From all reports, he is living up to the splendid record he made as a student in law school. 
"Art Vogelwede is making a fine prosecuting attorney in his Jiome town, Decatur,_Ind. Frank Corhett, Bob Eggeman, and Fred Shoppmaim. are all engaged in the practice of law in Fort Wayne, Ind. Frank Finnegan is running the newspaper in Huntington, Ind. JfAnny Foraee is now Dr. For-see in Louisville, & . John has taken over his father's practice in that dty, and is doing very welL Doc is married. Bill Sherman, also of Louis­ville, is now affiliated with a radio station there. I met Bill last year in that dty, but since each of us was hurrying at the time to keep appoint­ments, we did not have a chance for an extended visit. 
*T have seen Wendell Lcruing on several occa­sions during the past year. Wendell is practidng law in Evansville, Ind., and is married and the &tlier of two children. My old roommate in Soph­omore hall. Dr. Frank Hetreed, is a spedalist in 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Ghicaso. *He and I correspond frequently and have visited eadi other often since our undergraduate days. As you no doubt know, he is married, and the father of two children, a boy and a girl. BiU McCarthy is an auditor with the Internal Revenne department, and, when I last heard from him, he was working out of the Atlanta office. Johnny Golden is still in Chicago, and was mar­ried last fall. I see him quite often when in that city. I received a letter from him recently in which he reported that all was well. Golden's old roommate, Joe BIcCabe, has been transferred by the Congoleum Nairn Co., from their Chicago oftice to the Detroit territory, and, by coincidence, I received in this morning's mail, the announce­ment of the birth of his son, William Marsh HcGabe. While in Cincinnati recently on business, I met. quite by accident, Don Laurie at the Cin­cinnati club. Don is now a lieutenant in active service with, the Naval ordnance department in that city. He looks very well, and he tells me that he is a bridegroom of a few months. 
"Loo Heitcer, also of this city, has a nice position with E. H. Sheldon & Co., Holland, Hich. Lou gets back to Bedford for frequent visits "with his family, and like myself, has not as yet seen fit to become head of the household. JoKn Dnbisson is practicing law in his home town, Ope­lousas, I<a., and Spike England has returned to his old stamping ground in southern California. I have not heard from Spike for almost a year, and, therefore, I am unable to ^ve you np-to­the-minute information on him, and his business activities. 
"This just about exhausts me for the time being. As for myself, I am practicing law here in Bedford, and also am serving as mayor of the city; these combined duties are keeping me pretty busy. I sincerely hope that all of our classmates who are traveling in this direction will arrange to stop for a visit. In the future, I shall try to make your job a little easier by giving you per­iodic reports on any of the boys I may contact. Meanwhile, my most sincere best wishes." 
Thanks, Oonie, and best to you! 

Well, mates, that's how 'tis, when it comes to getting news for this column. And as Dooley, no doubt, says to himself about yours truly this time, '"Us later than you think!" and, of course, he is thinking of the deadline for this copy — and that's why we come to the end of the notes for this month. 
John J. Cassidy has moved from Buffalo, N. Y., to 801 Beacon St., Boston, Mass. 
«0^ | John Berran, 838 K Colfax Ai 
I T a I South Bend. IndiwuL 
lO-Year Reunion 
Qass of 1931 
May 30, 31, June 1 

From John Bergan; 
Since the announcement and letter to all of the class concerning plans for our reunion there has been much discussion and planning for good rep­resentations from all parts of the country. We should have a great crowd and a fine time the latter part of next month. Local plans are being made to have a number of innovations and pro­vide adequate entertainment for all those re­turning. 
Jim Doyle, jour chairman, has been recipient of many letters, and here is Jim's correspondence: 
^ The last few day's mail has brought the first responses to our reunion announcement, and if they continue at the present rate I am sure Jim Armstrong will have to assign us another hall. The letters are all very enthusiastic and some of them have already sent in their checks. 
Here are some excerpts from letters: 
Jim Biggins writes from Sharpsville. Pa.: 

"Enclosed is check. Maybe I'm an optimist but I like the idea and. if pos^ble. Til see you at Notre Dame May 30. I just talked to Ge«rxe Wasscll, who is now an M.D., and located at Sharon. FK, and he says if he isn't in the Army heUl be there also. Let me hear from you or your committee if there is anything I can do." 
Bemie Thompson, the Chicago florist, writes: 

"First let me congratulate you and your com­mittee on the fine preliminary work you are doing in regard to our coming reunion. You may be sure I'll be with you on May 30. and I am gcana to forward your letter to my old roommate. Bill Beming, who is now a sales contractor for gro­cery products in Beeville, Texas. I know that if possible Bill will come up North for the event and a lot of his closest friends like Paal (Stumpy) Grant, Tom Cannon, Tom Monahan, etc. will be glad to see BilJ." 
Charlie Cnshwa writes from Youngstown: 

"Your circular letter announcing the plans for our tenth reunion was in today's mail, so I hasten to remit my two-fifty herewith. I figure we can always take it out of the committee's collective hide if the show isn't worth it. Needless to say, I am happy to know that the plans are already being laid for our get-together, and as far as I am concerned, it will he the top reunion to date. If there is anything I can do to help, let me know You may be interested to know that on a recent trip to Washington I ran into Father E. Vincent Mooncy, CS.C., whom many of the boys will re­call without undue strain of memory, and also John Cavanaugfa, who finished in '28 and taught freshman speech to some of us. Will be interested to hear more news as the plans progress and hope you will meet with every success in lining up the class 100 per cent." 
Joe 0*Roarke writes from Pittsburgh: 

"There are a few contingencies which may prevent my attendance to the '31 reunion, and the most likely of these is being called for Army service since I am a reserve officer and likely to be called at any time. For this reason 1*11 probably not be able to indicate that I can attend until the last week in May." 
Tony Schreiner says he'll be around for the reunion if he is still solvent. 
John P. Hidccy writes from Pittsburgh: 

"Thanks for your letter of Feb. 26 with its enclosures. It is my earnest desire to be with yon in June. I don't believe the draft will interfere. My number is up and I am to get my second physical examination on March 3. I have the full support of my fiat feet in my desire to be at Notre Dame with the '31 crew. Dick O'DonncU is now with the Pittsburgh 'Sun-Telegraph' and may be reached there. My best wishes for success to you and your committee." 
Joe Laaerman writes from Marinette, Wis.; "I have received the various letters and circu­lars you have mailed out in regard to our reunion. While it is a bit early to state definitely, I do hope to be on hand. With possibly one or two ex­ceptions, I have not seen very many of the fel­lows since graduation, and naturally, would enjoy nothing more than to renew old acquaintances. Judging from the names on the committee and the fact that you are acting as diairman, 1 am sure that the reunion will be one well worth re^ membering. If there is anything further I can do, I certainly will be pleased to help out.** 
These are just a few of the letters I have re­ceived. Dan Clark. Jim Keating, Dan Egan, Fran Henneberser, Bill Kerrigan, Ed Ryan, Jade 
lo^ch, Gil Seaman, Frank HdDand, Jim Hdi, Bin Lcahy^ Dm OTooIe, Al Stepan and a host of others are planning on eomins back. I think that in a few days letters from the more distant 
'fellows will be coming in and if they all plan, as does TnaMy Adw, they will be with xa from tar and wide. I have received checks from Jeny Crowley, Gil Seaaun, John F. SalliTan of Passaic, Harry Deccan of Hartford, Conn., BiU McCarthy of Kansas Gty. D«a OToole and Jade Saanden. . In addition here are others who say they will be there: Ted Hcahadi stopped in the ofEice recently and said that Bill Artmann. Bob Baer, Hank ChaHben, Vincent Zans and himself are plan­ning on making s party of local suburbanites. George Goatdio called and said Hany Kennedy, now at Jersey Shore, Pa., will be there ani} also Loaia Gadogr, Maariea Goodeve of Winnepeg will make it providing the Canadian government will permit bim to take suSioent traveling funds ont of the country. Also Wally DeBaeoe, Clarence Tadccns, BIyron Hendifidd, Dan Hatpin, John Caikton Sal­liTan, TOM Mnnahan, Spike SalliTan, FanI Grant. JadK Lanx, Don McDonald, Steve Roth and some more will probably be too late to make this dead­line." 
News from New York City informs as that Detective Edward "Stretch" Hahon was recently honored by Mayor LaGuardia and other promi­nent city oEficials for his work of last month in apprehending a gang of bandits in one of the city's most recent and baffling crimes. Ed re­ceived a promotion in rank and a substantial increase in pay. Nice going, Ed, and we want that story first-hand at our reunion banquet. Jim Car­nril, the ex-Detroiter, is now manager of the Hotel Woodstock. New York City, and would welcome all Notre Dame men to his fine hostelry. 
Ben V. Dda Hunt postals from Holy Rosary 

.Mission, Pine Ridge, S. Dak., that he will be un­able to attend the reunion hut that he shall cer­tainly ke ^ all of the boys of '31 in his prayers. Ben is a member of the Society of Jesus and expects to be ordained to the priesthood next year. 
Tom Conley, athletic director of John (^rroU University, Cleveland, was an observer at one of Coach Frank Leahy's early spring practices and indicated that he would be on hand, in May with 
fi host of other Clevelanders. 
Let's talk up the reunion at our various Univer­sal Notre Dame-Nights and get a crowd coming from your respective dties and vidnities. 
 T. Inc. Sn SMA Jeffs 

1932 JaMS 
CUocs, miiwis. 

Jame* B. Waldcr from down Cairo^ HI., way. ~ has been called into active service in the U. 9. army. Jim is lieutenant in the quartermaster corps of reserve officers, and started bis time at Kelly Field, San Antonio, Texas. 
109 9 E<wml Ibrianr. 1*27 Fendm BMJ. 
%09A M- BOnt (Um. AtUtUe il—rliHl. 
•'• ^ NMra IfaUMk Indbna. 
fVom Bab CaiuD: GreetinKS, yon embattled old draft-dodgers! Have yon received TOUR questionnaire yet? We regret very much bavins skipped last issue, but what with all the turmoil, upheaval, confiK sion and speeolatian upsetting these old Athletic Offices, your bewildered secretary took a powder for news of '34 last issue. But here we are, brxgiit as a new penny, ready to transmit what little news we have to offer since last you heard from us. 
Bin Dayle drops us a card, to wit: "hast night I was reading the 'Alumnus,' which my brother Jiai bad forwarded to me, and 1 noticed that you mentioned that I worked in Detroit, selling Inn­
Tke Y>lotre Dame Alumaus 
ber. Well, Bob, tanee that time I have been forced to take a job with the government with a bie: de­crease in salary. I'm in the Army now, and, after a month of it, I am besinningr to sret accustomed to the routine whidi starts very early each morn­ing. Up at 5:45 A. H., make up a bed, sweep the fknr and then srab a mop. By 6:30 we are havinsr what is called breakfast. I have been rather lucky tfinngh in beinff assigued to the Quartermaster Corps." 
Write Bill as Private William K Doyle. QM.O., Post Qoartermaster, Fort Custer, Mich., Barracks 1643. We know he'd be elad to hear from you, and if you're BO inclined, knit him a sweater! 

Right on the heels of the announcement of his marriage, comes Oindc Litty to the campus, &esh from Buenos Aires on four months* leave. We hmdied together in the caf, and Chuck unfolded his progress to our admiring ears. He's vrith Singer Sewing Hadiine, located in B.A.. has just • been promoted to superintendent, was married Jan. 17 in Buenos Aires to an Omaha girl whom he met down there, and \^o . friends, is a doctor, specializing in the care of crippled children: Im­agine going all the way to South America to marry a gal from Omaha? It's a small world, to coin a phrase. 
Anyway, Chuck has another month or so in the States, and then returns to his adopted country, Argentina. He invited us, and I pass it on to you (nnce there's not much likelihood of holding a '34 reunion down there) to come and visit him. Says he has a new home on the outskirts of Buenos Aires with swimming pool, etc Just think — we knew him when, too. His mail address is Faseo Colon 442, Buenos Aires. Argentina. Let's start a movement to hold our ten-year reunion down tiiere. 
Just last time we mentioned that we'd like to hear from Harry Borchen. We did. An announce-BKUt of his marriage to Alice Elizabeth Healy on K^. 22. Yon didn't have to go to all that trouble, Harry, just to maks news for us. 
Here's a real example of Notre Dame fraternal-ism, where it really counts — in the purse .The following letter from Bob Hamilton ^ves us some­thing to think about: "I thought I would give you the do^e about the Dnmore [Dumore Electric Tool Co., Badne, Wis., of wbidi Bob is vice-president] Notre Dame Club inasmuch as we have had two additions tance the first of the year. The charter members, of course, were Bill Fromm, my brother Jim and myself. Last year we added Bob VoeDcer of the class of '39, and starting the first of the year, Jin Fomst (Bed) who went to school trith ns, came.with the company. At the same time, Haward IMI of the 1929 '•l^^q — you remember those fellows just before the crash — came to work as a sales engineer. 
"JiM • Forrest and myself have been wondering if yoa have heard anything about BiH PowelL I don't know idtether this should turn into a 'help wanted* eohmm, but at any rate Powell can get in toudi with us here at Dnmore. Another fellow that we want to hear from is BiU Brooks of Brooklyn. Brooklyn is such a helluva big town and there are so many Brooks that we really can't tie that gent down. Well, Bob, I have to drop off for now but I can tell yoa even though we don't have double dedc beds around here we still have scane dandy bull sessions." Well done, Robert, and congratulations. 
Here's one bt m the old language butcher from down Bahston way — Harry Bodcett: "Since graduation many of our classmates have been neglectful in corresponding with Jim Moscow and now yourself. [Hear, bearl] However, on Friday last Chatiie Sdiwartscl came into town from Fenn's Grove, N. J., wh«e he is presently work-ins for tb« duPont Company. We had a long con­vezsation and did quite a bit of serious reminis­cing about the happenings, not only from 19S0 to 1934, but also from 1934 to the present. He lookad fine and he is the same Charlie. I had him out to the house on Sunday prior to his departure and X know all those who lived with us in I^yons and Alumni Hall will be glad to hear that Charlie' is the same Charlie we all knew. [Okay, ^arry, Imt what we want to know, is Charlie the same CbaP­lie?] I would like to make Derby Day this year in Ijouisville so that I could once again see all my friends in that section. 
"Adding a personal note, the whole city of Bos­ton has been greatly disturbed about V^aak Jjt*by*n transfer to Notre Dame. "He did sodi a bang-up job for two seasons here that all poaons, Boston College or not, were greatly distuzbed because of what they might lose in Boston In future years. I wish Frank every success and know that his 'going home' will prove not <mly beneficial to Notre Dame but also to F^rank.** Thanks, ^rry . Everyone here is greatly pleased with the University's choice of a successor to Elmer Laydcn. 
This just about deals me out for this hand, except to add that the V. J. Rrishmsns. of Charles­ton. W. Va., informed us that they will be tiiree this summer. 
Continue to drop us a line and we'll hope to see lots of you here for Commencement. 
[Ed's note: Amutrong and Dooley nominate the latest man-of-the-month — BIr. Robert CaUO* new assistant business manager of athletics. Sae story elsewhere in this issue.] 
1935 FzwaUTB C. Hadualtar, SM ATC^ St Lnds, WssauL 
From Hodh: Here we are again! And we might say vritb a bag full for a change. fVom the- east and vest we received weighty messages during tiie month and we feel more like going to work oh this idb now. 
Bay Shea sent along a note wondering if the "Ray Shea" we referred to recently meant Idra. We really meant the other Shay, fella, but v a are glad that the confusion stirred yon Into writ­ing us. Ray has giv«i us the low down on aoaaa of the New England crowd. He is with the Board of Education in Springfield, Uass. Iji addition to a part-time teaching job along the phy. ed. line in one of the junior high schools, Ray is coadiinc hockey and is asristant football coadi at Cona­merce High School. 
Ray said that he recently ran into Frank Ifoi^ phy who told him that Tim Sepe is with a finanee company in Springfield. Tim has been there iix months, having been transferred by the company, from the' home town of Proridenoe, R. I. SInipfay. after a couple of years with some movie outfit, is. now with''' 'the Hsk Tire Company in Chieopae. Mass. '•" 
Joe "Slugger" 0*Neil is employed in recreatfoD workat-^oiie of-the-local centers in ^ringfield. Incidentally,-Joe; has been .married for two yesira. 
And here\Js. news for'all of you buddies of Lefty Dnniu'Chir, bby-Eaeran has joined the ranks of the married, having takeni the step last No­vember. The'bride,w^ a:local gal. To both of you. Lefty, we send four very best.. The Dunns axe living in Newburs^V.;N.' Y^ where Lief^ is with Woolworth Five and;Ten.. 

Jack Bfannion, who joined up with: our .outfit'^ a junior, is with the F.BX in SpringfirfiyWej^earr. tainly have our men in there pitiehin'gj-.witfa''J: •. Edgar. ' •-'*'T^^" 
We often wonder what is happening to 'VuffE*'^ sy" and Dabol. You all remember McGrath and.-Gafney. Harry Dabol and George are stiU witti the Ware Hi ^ Sdiool athletic teams, Gafney han­dling basketball and VcGrath taldag over tiia hockey. 
Ray reports that Bab Carter is ifwiHnning in Texas with the Amarillo Junior College down Panhandle way. Ed O'Hara is holding his own at Ibrnmond^xnt, N. Y., but Frank Ibzwd l made a diange. FWmk left Nazareth ^all in September for a coaching job at Livonia, N. Y. 
Tbanks a million for your swell letter. Bay — keep *em coming — we can use a lot more of them. 
Moving along down the coastline we come to Sig Sfaudca in New York City. Tbe Polish Count sent along a grand piece of repoHing and we want to quote at length from his misdve: 
"Still teaching English and with an added as­agnment that of faculty advisor to the sdiool newqnper. .. . It is needless to say that teach­ing tasks have been multiplied. Each day for five days a vreek I teach grammar, literature, life, and just children five periods per diem. • . > , 
"Saw and see many of the N.D.ers. Andrew Jaais (JaneazewBld, '34) is accounting for Ford. He and the Mrs. live in Grosse Pbinte^ SGch. He drove to New York, and spent a wedc with us, Joidaa Hargrove is living close by at little Neck. and .we are putting our heads together in getting out the New York Club's bulletin. He is doing advertiring with Kudner's at Radio City. His last job was promoting Buieks and pudiing the or­anges of Florida to the American consumer. 
"On Feb. 6, Aagie Bassa. '36, coadi at Cha­minade High, Hineola, L. L, left, for a year of Army life at Camp Upton, Yaphank. FVank La­kaiae is- repladng him at the job. Ihere are many teaching posts opening up in these parts which go begging for good men teachers. I have admin­istration ideas also, and am a candidate at Lo­cust 'Valley Junior High Sdiool, Glen Cove, L. L Inddentally, Bab Caveay. *36, is figuring the budgets for the St. Charles Training Sdiool for Boys in Illinois. 
"For excitement, mental, intellectual, spiritual. et al, I have been going ahead on the PhJ). at Teacher's College, Cblumlna. .. . I am prez of the Klnb Fobld of Oolumbia. and viee-prez of 
• the Columlda Slavonic Sodety.' All the titles come &om the fact that I have been reviewing books on and by the Poles and the Slavs for the Polidi newspapers weekly, t have a copyrighted column. (The letterhead — "Polish Currents" by Slgmund Shiszka.) That reminds me, please reeomnnend to the fellows Arnold Lunn's 'Come What Hay* (Little. Bnram), just published. . . . Chajfter 19 is entitled *Notre Dame.' He relates anecdotes of the Fighting Irish. Rode, 'Religious Bulletin.* Reva. CaTaaaagb, Lynch. BJihop 0*Hara. In Chapter 20 he goes further about N.D. and Sitter Maddeva and St. Mary's Cbllege. . . . 
"Stm NJ>.-N.Y.C^ clubbing. The boys elected 
' yours truly to the Board of Crovemors. I waa happy being a member of the scholarship com­nuttee, too. .. . 
"I would like to hear from Ed Connors and Jokn Caintdl. as would Hargrove. 
"Am continuing to promote the Polidi cause in her struggles for freedom, vrith the Kosdustko Foundation fond to promote exdiange of adiolars and stodoits between Poland and the U. S. for better international understanding. I serve as the Long Island diairman, along with sponsors C!oL Theodore Roosevdt (Oyster Bay)." 
That was a real mouthful ixora Sig. or eiioald 
^we have said "penfnlir* We- always enjoy hear­
;}-ing:'&oiii:yoo. fella, because you give us plenty Vof eogy; aride from tba personal satisfaction of .lDBq^ng;pm With jmL^'^^^ waiting for an­^other. note .before: long. - -' 

After a stump of several weeks a red-edsed envdope broni^t us word from one of the lost brethren. LMI Hra^ came throat, and we had to rit dorwn to take it — it was too much to take standing. Lou is out in Ix» Angeles — address is 9M 9. Lucerne Blvd. Lou was without fran for a qpell and deddcd to write to us. 
Lott was transferred from Cleveland to Los Anseles a year ago — April, 1940. He is still with the same company — General Electric I«anip department. For the record, the business address is the Kdison Boildin?. In August he returned to Cleveland for a sales conference, but for an addi­tional and more important reason — to marry Betty Gantillon. ^ e eventful day was Sept. 2. Ibey went back west after the ceremony, taking a devious route for a wedding trip. There is some rumor that Lou nearly lost his wife and his rating in the Holy Name Society as he drove through the "Badland." 
To quote from IJOU'S letter: "We have a lovely place, including a patio — which if you have, rignals you are a 'native* of California. And for breakfast fruit I merely go out the front door and pick a couple of tangerines from a very pro­lific tree. Some stuff I 
. "Of course we went to the U.S.C. game — saw Ed Bbnsfield from Denver. He's working for my comi)etitor*8 jobber (Westinghouse) in Denver — and he's selling lamps like yours truly! — Gene BBsfa was also here for the game — and lo and behold! while warming up for the stag — fBilt­more Grill Bar) my 'Dome* side-kick, Vic Arcadi, came strolling in. Ibdn't seen htm since gradua­tion. He's resident phyadan at the Queen of Angels hospital here in IJJV." 
It was certainly swell to hear from yon. Lou. Kay we. extend our personal as well xis the class' best wishes for happiness and prosi>erity to you and Betty. If we ever get out that way in our rambles — expect to see us. I am trying to cor­rect my roster of the class and will have my secretary type a copy for. yon in the near future. 
To wind up this transcontinental tour we have a quick note from Tom Proctor. Tou just made it, too, barrister, as we were beginning to gather oar notes and paper to dash this off. 
Tom reports that son Philip is waxing strong in wisdom and is taking on definite character traits. "He is the very spit of his father save for dispontion. He has a good one — • his mother'a.*' 
The ice cream company continues to expand and the position of government appeal agent grows more tedious. Tom continues as president of the Elldiart County Infantile FVualysis Fonnda­tion. and as a director of Kiwanis. Though the law business is prospering, Tom is heeding the anntial spring call of Tauek Tours and expects to pack up his family and be off for a few weelcs in the south early in ApriL We'll be looking for you in St. Louis on the return trip. 
That's about it for this time, gang! Tbere are two more issues to go for this year — how about pouring in letters to close up the year with a 
bangT  
«A«j f  Jahn  Moran,  CI E. Ktk St , Apt. Z.  
•** •  New Talk  atr .  

S-Year Reunion Cass of 1936 May 30, 31. June I 

Knun Jalnniy Keran: Tbera'a a f^nt hint of spring in the air these daya. Kajbe a lot of yon. like ourselves, are sniff­ing thrt spring air and already looking toward Notre.Danie. Toward oor Flve-Year Beunion this May 30 (Memorial Day), May 31, and Jn u 1. It will be a memorable week-end — and judging by the number who have let us know by letter, or in conversation, that they have already made plans to get back for the oceaaon. there will be a grand tuni'Kmt. Don't get cau^t short mark the Memorial Day week-end on your calendar, and arrange NOW to ride, hitch-hike, fly, swim, or walk back to the campus. We'll be there (with bells on) — See yon then. 
The wheels are already turning, and plana have been made to make this the biggest and best n ­union yet. So we'll just lead off with the an­nonncement tha t Bob Ervin has been appoint­ed local chairman to set the stage for the arrival of the '36 horde. We all remember Bob for the capable way he managed many an undergraduate function, so we can be assured that the best of accommodations will be none too good for '36. i 
But here's Bob's letter :\ "I was dam glad to hear from you and to know that plans for our re­Bob Errim union are shaping up so 
•well. I'll be very happy to accept the appoint­ment as local chairman of arrangements for the reunion. During the past two years I have been on the faculty at ND . as an instructi» in hygiene and bacteriology and have done some research work on the side. The University inaugurated a new course 'Elementary Hygiene' for all aoph<^ mores in all colleges. I have seven sections of Ibis course totaling 565 students: in addition I am teaching bacteriology lab. and a new course In biological photography, the research is gdng along very well in the laboratories, and we have advanced in the work on germ-free animal^ cross infection, and micrurgy. 
"It would seem that an alumnus on campus all the time could pick up an abundance of news, but frankly I have to read your column in the 'Alumnus* to find out what is actually going on. As you know, there are very few men left around here from oor class, and I don't see many of them in South Bend. I see Don McKay every jiow and then in Chicago: he is interning at the Aneker (Sty Hospital in St. Paul. Minn. BUI Bayer is still with the Quaker State Refining 0>rp. in Parkers­burg, W. Va. I learned from your eohmm that PanI Doyle is in N. Y.. working for Union Car­bide. Ask him to drop me a line and let me know his address. [Here it is. Bob: 40-15 81st St.. Jadc­son Heights, Long Island. N. T.] I would also be very much interested in hearing from Colonel Jade Bray of Padueah, Ky. I would like to give him a personal pep talk regarding attendance at the reunion. 
"Tour plans for the Softball game. Mass for the departed members of the class, bull aesrfoni, smokers, etc., sound very' good, and I am sure that the boys you have.asked to help on the com­mittees will do a grand job." 
And sx)eaking of committees; here is the gang which is pitching in to:help put over the re­xmion. Assisting Bob will'be the local arrange­ments committee of: Gcaige HcNdle. Chadey Ddmalek. Carml Belmont, Daa Kaleayndd and Ted Frekowitz. Hiese boys will really do a U g job I The Cla^' Smoker Friday evening (Memor­ial Day) will bear witness to that. TUdng ear* of the tickets and the door at the smoker will b* Hidny Dendler aiid Bab Cavanaagh. 
"Hie traditional softball game between th« 5­year and 10-year reunion classes win be ttaced and plotted by Matt "Baseball Joe" IheiMs. the pitching prodigy of Jake KUnc'a ball teams, and 
rtaub, who was no btfl player oa 1 ' LaydiB's sonads. 
The Haas for Uw ArrmrA meailiei'J of tiia daa l and a» eoOeetbm for the Perpetoal Mass Vumt wm be handled by WM WaUk. El Sdbaa. Mm Lava and Harwia Gowk. 
TUa la jnat a brief dntdi of tha plana already made for the remiion. Next month well hav* man data for yon. So.whila the rwmittea does its woA. make your plana MOW to get back -im !•> union. Too will all man tbtxfij a font letter and s return post card whidi win enable ua t s determin* how many win be on hand for ths smoker and the other events. Aa it wiU be nseas­saiy for us to make providon for imtztAmeatM, rooms, etc. yoa are urged to return tha card as soon as posdble. It wOl be a big help to us all. and win make oor job nnch eader. Bow aboat itT If yoa would like to help run the rronion; or have any snggestiona. dnv us a line and let us know.' 
Pat Tsfini dro^>ed a line from Winchester. Mass.. to say that he expects to be back for tiie reunion to see aU the old gang: Pat is driving €KAt and would like to have anybody firam New England vAo is going along to write him at 45 Holland St.. as he has room for. a couple of pea-, sengers. Pat is stUI in aodal work, as reported here some time back, is married, and rapidly da­vdoping into one of Windtester's leading citiaeBS. His reports. that Gcaige Msciarity was aroimd pasring out dgars. recently when he became tha proud daddy of a future quarterback. Fkt also passes along the information that Bandy Kcaay, ex. '32, from Niles. Mich., is now Uving in ¥nii­chester. 
Another who win be back for reunion is Joe SeIHvaii« who writes aa follows on the stationezT of United Air Unes. Municipal Airport. Akron. Ohio: *T have been temporarily located here sinee last November and at present expect to be here for another couple of months as substitute Add manager. I am stiU single. aKhouA I can't aay for how long. 
"Last summer, while working in Des Moines. Iowa. I had Lieut. Lea Haetmau with me for a wedc-end in July. He came out from Patterson Held. Fwrfield. Ohio, to ferry back aa Army Air Corps Douglas C-^ transport that had been forced down there a week before by motor trooUs; He baa been at Patterson Held with the 10th Tran^ort Group snee Jan. 1. 1940. and sines that time has made trips to every major dty ia the country. 
"Jack Laeey. of Chicago, waa in Loo's da a at Kdly Field, Texas, both finishing in December, 1939. Jack, yoa wUl reeaU. reedved hia dtgn* in 1938 after working for some time aa Dattsr COanael's aeeietsry. The last time I heard from ­him he was witii the 10th Transport Groop at Wddletown Air Depot. Middletown, Pa. I saw Lon again Labor Day week-end in Des Hoiaes. he having flown out from Patteraon Field fin the holidays to eeldirate the goldea wediBng aaaifep­sary of his father and mother. 
"I waa on the campus last fall' for the Iowa game and saw Tern Grady and Bed Bmiisa I didn't vend nmdi time in South Bend aa ChaiBs ntasisMns invited me to spend the week-end at his place at Cassopolia. Midu Fits at that time ' was witii a trailer anunfacturing coaipaay.'I«ts ia 1937 and early in '38 be waa at the Navy Air Sdiool at Fensaeola. Fla.. and be told IM that be expected to go back to the Navy soon andcr a new program. In the meantime he has been doing quite a bit of flying oat of South Bend. 
"At the Notre Dame-Ncrthwestoa EvanstoB ia November I saw Tkaa was dttiag a few rows bdiind me, and aflar Oe game I bumped into Peal Laii i wbo add ha 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
was still in radio, doing: script work. I have learned from one of our first officers who knew Tom Fltxcerald of Chicago, while Tom was at^ tached to tbe Aircraft Carrier Lexington, that he is now - connected with Transcontinental & West-cm Air, Inc. Ktz is in the general headquarters in Kansas City, Ho. 
"I am living at the Akron y.M.C.A. with three 
other N.D. men from '37, '38, and '40. Joe Kraker, 
'29, is the owner of one of Akron's most popular 'clubs, while BQl Bnrkhardt, '35, is president of the Burkhardt Brewing Co., largest brewery in this part of the state. I' have been to his sales­room and sampled some of his product. I started my vacation on March 5. After going home to Connecticut for a few days, I left for the Pacific Coast. I spent a few days in Los Angeles with Jack MacDonald formerly of Maiden, Alass. Last July Jack married Marie Lucie McKean, St. Mary*s, '36, who recently finished work at U.S.C. for her teaching certificate­
"Early in December I received an invitation to the wedding of Dan McHu^h of Hollywood, Calif., who started with us in 1932 and then transferred to U.C.L.A- He was to have been married Dec 28 to Mary M. Naughton of Long Beach, Calif. When I heard from him last year he was an as­sistant national bank examiner working out of Atlanta, Ga. 
"While I am in the East I'll try to drop around and say hello. If I don't see you then I will see you at our five-year reunion at Notre Dame in June." 
Hianks for a very enjoyable letter, Joe, and we certainly TWII be looking for you at the reunion. A few more letters like yours every month and writing this column would be a breeze. Hope you had a grand vacation. 
While covering the aeronautical section of the 
•36 gang, let's look in on Loa Hansman who finally came through with a letter after all these years. Lieutenant Hnnsman ("Butch" to the boys in Walsh) had this to say for himself: "I believe this is my first letter to you [you're not fooling', mister.] I haven't seen you since June, '36, nor have I run across many of the old gang. So you see Fm really counting on our five-year reunion this coming Memorial Day week-end. My sincerest wishes are that the fourth floor of Walsh will be well represented by Cashin, Vicars, Themes, Byrne, Hahar, Gottsacker, Clifif Brown, etc., and that Sorin and Howard will have a gang back, too. {Well, hoys, don't say we didn't warn you: MAKE YOUR PLANS NOW TO BE BACK FOR THE REUNION! EVERYBODY'S GOING TO BE THERE!] 
"March 3 I returned from a trip to Panama and enroute I got some fine shots of the Roclcy Mountains and the various cloud formations we encountered. Last week I received a letter from Joe SnlliTaii who is with United Air Lines at Akron, Ohio. He is doing an excellent Job, and, no doubt, will shortly be made a station manager. Bill Strode spoke over the radio recently here in Dayton, and added to his reputation as one of the town's promising young attorneys. I am sched­uled for the coast guard next week, and hope to see some of the boys in Los Angeles and Sacra­mento." 
Thanks very much for your long delayed letter. Butch. Lots of luck in the Air Corps, and we'll be seeing yon next May at reunion. Meantime, the rest of you boys can address your communi­cations to Lieutenant L. H. Hansman, Patterson Field, Fairfield, Ohio. 
In line with our recent request for information on any of the class who were drafted or voluntar­ily entered any branches of the Army, Navy, or Marine Corps, we had a card from Joe Schmidt who was temporarily stationed at Fort Dix, N. J. 
Later Joe was shifted and can now be reached at Camp I^ee, Petersburg, Va., Quartermaster Replacement Center (Serial No. 32009705). Lots of luck, Joe, and to the rest of the boys we sug­gest that a line to Private Schmidt would be in order. 
Meanwhile, let's hear from the rest of you who are doing your bit for Uncle Sam. ITie suggestion made through this colum last month by Joe Mansfield that Notre Dame service men keep the Alumni Office informed of their locations in order that alumni in the different camps, air • stations, etc, might organize local clubs, met ^t h much comment. We are keeping a record of those '36 men who have written us, and this information is available to any of the boys who are going into the services. 
Bob Cavanangh drcpped a line from Syracuse, 
N. Y., where he w-as checking local banking con­ditions for the F.D.LC. Sez Bob: "I'll probably be stationed here for a couple of weeks. I haven't yet figured out how it happened, but there I was in Jersey City for t:%vo months and we didn't get together. I really am sorrj- about it. However, we were very busy, although many times I would de-. cide to call you and then. .. . If nothing goes wrong, and I am not in the Army, I'll be back for reunion next May. My number came up in the draft, but I was given a six month's deferment because of my job. Kay Dcely is all sold on mar­ried li fe, is putting on weight, and sends regards." 
Ihanks for the letter. Bob, and we hoiK the old Array doesn't get you before our five-year re­union rolls around. And that winds up the doings for this month. We are certainly gratified at the increased number of letters that are arriving with word that the writers will be back for reunion. But we can still do with more, so let's hear from you. And if we don't hear from you, you'll hear frem us when we meet on the campus at OHD­menceraent. 
"WTien you read of the exploits of the RJL.F. in your daily papers, you can think of Georce Mack of Bay Shore. I^. I., downing a few Messer-' Schmidts in his Spitfire. George joined the ILA.F, last fall by going to Canada and signing up, and by now should be giving a full account of himself over England. 
 Foley, 910 Hswtihonie 
1937 Panl 
Grosse Pointe, BGdiigan. 
1 030 Hmrold ~A. Wimams, SOS Eait Lak* ' '^^ Ave., Baltimore, Maryland. 
From Hal Williams: 
The first news from the army camps arrives just in time for the April issue. 
Private Frank Wukorits, Troop B of the Krst Reconnaissance Squadron, Fort BUss, Texas, re­ports: "I hope the surprise of receiving this does not overcome you. I was drafted on Jan. 16 and reached this fort on the 25th of January. I was detailed to the First Reconnaissance Squadron'. The name speaks for itself — anyway, we •are to be scouts for the army. This is an entirely mech­anized outfit taking the place of the cavalry which did most of the scouting heretofore. .. . 
"At the present time we are living in tents. The men are being brought in much faster than barracks can be built. The tents are very com­fortable for sleeping, though: there is plenty of fresh air at all times. 
"As yet I haven't been able to go into EI Paso or Juarez which is just across the Rio Grande in M&xico. We were given several injections and were quarantined, for a month. I'll have to hustle and close this letter now. I've run out of news and the lights will he turned off in about three minutes. The lights go ofi at 9 o'clock every night. 
Before closing, though, I'd like to add that Bill Clifford, the old dash man from Gary, is also here. John Honachui. from South Bend, is stationed with the Sixty-third Coast Artillery. Ihey are just a short way from here, in the same fort. I almost forgot, — Dan Walfh, of South Bend, is also a member of the Reconnaissance squadron. There are also several others whose names I can't recall ofDiand. , , ." 
Thanks, Frank, for the letter. A bunch of us will probably be down to see you very soon. 
And now George McDermott, of 187 Culver Road, Rochester, N. Y. Says George: "It's been three years now since Pve been silent and I can't say that silence is golden (materi'^lly speaking) but the past issue of the 'Alumnus* '38 class notes was so undernourished and skimpy that I thought I better come out of retirement and serve some lierary vitamin BI 
"Ever since graduation I've divided my time between working on the Social Service staff in two welfare departments and doing some theatri­cal stock work and have managed to stay em­ployed. I thought I might have a chance to drop in and see you personally this month because I was sdieduled to join a stock company in Roanoke. Va., but threw it over at the last minute because things looked better here. 
"I haven't seen many of the boys since gradu­ation except Vin Daggan who stopped over here in 1939 for a day or two .. . Joe O'Brien is probably married by now because when I saw him last summer at the World's Fair he men­tioned that he was scheduled for the grand march within two weeks. 
"Some of the old guard, especially Charlie Dalley, might be interested in knowing that Charley (Butch) Bntz is hale and hearty and doing fine as a physical instructor in Kearny, 
N. J. Butch was with us in Carroll hall in 1934 when we were being weaned, but left at the end of that year. He dropped in to see me for a day or two last summer and asked to be remembered to all the lads. 
"i have seen Ted Flanagan a lot because he is connected with the Federal Department of Parole and drops down to my bailiwick at least once a month. He plans taking unto himself a lovely wife. He looks great and is doing even better. 
"When I last heard of Didc Kearney he was managing the athletic department of a store in Lockport, N. Y, . . . Those are about all of the boys that I've bumped into outside of Boh Mc­Grath and Johnny Bndcler while I was in Chicago in 1939. . , . My draft number is about up. , . ,'* 
Ihanks, George. 
From Charlie Morrow (2418 Valetta road, Louis­ville): 
"This is the icebreaker for me as far as com­municating with the column is concerned. Guess I should be roundly censured but it ah\*ays hap­pened that when I had something to wTite some­one else always beat me to the draw, or the letter box, I should say. 
'Ihe big news as far as I am concerned is tliis: I'm to be married May 10 to Louisville's loveliest lady. Miss Monica Schoo. who is a graduate of Nazareth College here. .. . I hope to get some of the gang here for the affair. Inci­dentally, the date was originally May 3 — but that being Derby Day — we couldn't run com­petition with the ponies. . _ 
"I've been mentioned several times in the col­umn, but just for the sake of bringing the infor­mation up to date I am now a city salesman with the Hillerich & Bradsl^ Company, manufacturers of the Louisville line of baseball bats and ffolf clubs. ... 

"Wish I had some news to ofTer about Louis­villians but I've lost track off Biny Castlcmmn completely; Johnny Sdtwartzel is worldnt; for the Adier plant here, but I don't know what his job is. I see Bill Woemer every Monday when we bowl with the local Notre Dame club league. If there's space would you please ask Jack Honlder and Danny Qninlan to send me their addresses? I want to write them. [Note: Moulder and Quinlan should also drop this column a note.] 
"One more thin? — I have just received a letter from Manry Kennedy — he gave his address as Onk Park, 111., but made no mention as to what the move from Elgin (III.) implied. I don't know whether he has a job with another company or has been transferred by the Consumers Company, or what. Let you know when I find out." 
Nice going, Charlie. And heartiest congratu­lations. 
And while on the subject of engagements, this is just the spot to announce the engagement of Miss Dorothea T. Griffith, of Baltimore, to Hml Langton, formerly of Locust Gap, Fa., and now of Baltimore. No date is set for the wedding. 
Hal was telling me that he is now in the plumbing business and doing great. 
Eddie Mattingly dropped me a note recently. He is still single, still on the outside of an army camp and still working for his father in the but­ter, eggs and cheese business (wholesale). 
Ed Bartnett, covering the New. York scene, writes; 
"As you know. Bill Woemer was working in New York during December and we were together constantly. One afternoon we went out with Bill Gallin who thinks that married life is okay. Bill Castleman [Charlie Morrow please note] has been transferred to New York and is in charge of exports for some aluminum company. We've been together a number of times. At Christmas time I received cards from Rnss Redgate, Bill Robin­son, Jim Walsh and a few others I can't remem­ber just now. None of them had much to say. 
"Recently I received a letter from one of the guys I've heard little about, Larry Larkin. He wrote four plays in four months and was asking nie how to go about selling them. I also had a letter a few weeks ago from George Kerwin who is now working in Chicago with the Marquette Petroleum Products as a salesman. He lives at 7010 Creiger avenue with Ray Fiedler. Near the end of January I was best man at Chuck Bea8ley*B wedding. We both survived the ceremony. He re­
*ported to the Marines several days ago as a sec­ond lieutenant called up for active duty. 
*'Jim Sullivan wrote me recently that he's been slated for the army. Joe Kmpa, ex. '3S, wrote me a brief note at Christmas time announcing that he was married a short time before. 
"Recently I saw N.D. beat N.Y.U. at the Garden with Ray Meyer doing a swell job of coaching. During the game Frank Leahy's ap­iwintment as coach of N.D. was announced and there was a thunder of applause. There were a lot of fellows at the game but surprisingly few from our class. The only ones I saw were Charlie Callahan, who's just leaving for the army. [Note: wonder how Charlie will ever be able to get up in the morning?] Jack Doyle and several others. 
"I met Hank Leader, now doing district work and rewrite for 'City News* here in the big city. He reports favorably on married life." 
Ed also mentions in his letter that he has been promoted to a rewrite position on the New York "Times" — one of the youngest they've ever had. He adds, "But the biggest moment of my present life is likely to occur in a few days when a bunch 
' of doctors look down my throat and thump my chest and wonder whether I'm an acceptable enough specimen for the Army of the United States of America. My number, 666, though nice-sounding, wasn't awfully lucky. . . ." 
Ed is now living in Greenwich Village with two other "Times" reporters. His address is 96 Perry street. 
Nidc Lambcrto is now worHng for the Sioux City "Tribune" as a swing man — corexing courts and police, serving as telegraph editor and making up the women's page. Nick says that Sioux City has lots of nice people —• especially a colonel's daughter. 
Tiger McGrath came over to Baltimore several weeks ago for a short visit. He didn't have any news to pass along other than he is still workins hard at C?athoUc University in Washington. Boh Webster, making another swing through the east for the Dow Chemical Company of Midland. Mich., gave me a telephone call last week when he passed through town. 
That's about all except that the letters have not been so plentiful during the past few months. How about some news from Bob Tharlnger, Pat Stillisano, Jim Walsh, Laorence Stewart, John Scott, Cornelius T. O'Brien, Jim Lonson, Frank Itzin. Tom Jordan, Ed Harvar, Ed Hickey, Tom Gorman, the Fox boys, Joe DiMattco, Bernard Cullcn, Dick Carney, the Cliffords, Georce Bclan­gcr. Nelson Vogel, Angostine Zell, the Harvard boys .and the Indianapolis gang? 
Sam Borzillcri, until recently in South Bend. is with the headquarters company, 9th army corps. Fort Lewis, out near Tacoma, Wash. He reports that the army routine is interesting and pleasant and that the food is almost as good as it was at Notre Dame. 
A letter from Ned Fishwick, ex. *38, 22 Central Ave., St. Augustine, Fla., gives us the following news about N.D. men in the Florida territory. Ned says: "The local Notre Dame alumni are getting along fine. David BUger, '38, is a second lieutenant in the army and an accountant at the state arsenal here, and Charles Bennett, '39. is in his second year of law at the U. of Florida. . . . Louis Reilly, '40. is an accountant at Blarine Studios, and was recently elected president of the local C.Y.O." 
Frank "Bub" Crowley, late of Lexington, Ky., is a pharmacist at the Station Hospital. Fort Knox. Ky. 
Frank Detscher, associated with his family in the baking business in East Port Chester, Conn., is, with his brother, on the market with a device for shipping decorated cakes. Frank will be glad to supply further details to those interested, and there ought to be plenty. The address is 228 SEU St.. East Port Chester. 
IQ M Vinccsit DeCooraey, 2M Bm h Cntk. 
• ' * ' Kansas City. BOnoari. 
Last month's feeble attempt at a column should bring tears of shame and oodles of letters from assorted and collective members of class '39, To date of writing this monthly stint, the only tears for miles around are those splashing off this tsrpe­writer. bewailing the fact that April's column Is going to almost to be a duplication, of last issue's few inches. But perhaps one of the boys who has really been going places will be able to shed more light on the goings-on of various members of the class when he comes to town tomorrow night •— Greg Rice. All of that depends, of course, cm whether or not I shall be able to get close enough to him; most everyone who has any con­nection at all with N.D. and several thousand assorted others will be on hand to see our Greg run the pants off the Missouri Valley Amateur Athletic Union. 
Greg's visit will be the highlight of the month since good old Universal Notre Dame Night will probably not make next month's masterpiece. Hope that there will be something to report on anyway. 
The month of March brought nothing in the way of letters. February brought just too late to be inetnded in the last column, three harbingers of spring that were, and are, extremely welcome anee two came &om previously unheard .(or at least unsung) scribes. The third was from our old chemist-philosopher, Pete San^rodc, bemoan­ing his fate out in the wilderness. 
In the order of their appearance, first a card from the ccnnbination of George Bastian and Bay ^nile, who said they had intended to drop a few lines several times in the past two years but that something always interfered. But just as lonir as they finally made it all is forgiven, and I clo hope that next time won't find so many delays necessary, ^ e two meds wrote in from Washing­ton, D. C, where they are at Georgetown Medical School, and from reports in other years* cohunns and irota oqr own knowledge Washington should soon be the biggest Kotre Dame center in the­coontry, what with G-men, law students and lawyers, department of labor men spreading the gospel of Mr. Fagan and Leo XHI, and assorted others. 
But Ray and George say that exams are keep­ing Lonis CacdMli, Joe KoenoegsAoff, and Bd Plank and themselves very busy. Among others they report on, PUl DiCtocco is-in law at Cath­olic V„ Bob Campbcn, according to his brother Frank, is doing well at Pitt Med. Keeping thdr fingers crossed with a "so far," the two say that all the fellows from NJ>. are going very well in medicine and it looked as thon^ the last semester was another one nnder the belt. At Thanksgiving saw R. BOey and F.' KcIIey. Al Brown is working in Washington (which is more evidence for oar contention above). Ray and George are living at • 1540 44th St., Washington, D. C, and would be glad to hear from any of the boys not too tied up to write — and incidentally, so would L 
Epistle Number two could scarcely be called thai for it was only a few lines on a card, bnt in in>­portance it takes on dignity because of its impor­tance. "Just a line to let you know that Robert F., Jr.. '62, was bom last Sunday (Fd>. 23) and both mother and baby are doing fine." There were a few more notes on the card. Bob is still tnring to become a florist: all the Toledo boys are doing well, including Flage, Dctser, CLoo^din and Tem Shea, but no word as to what they are doing well at. The card, incidentally, was from Boh SdreaiH. 
Then old .Pete Sandnck opened his beautifully-printed letter by saying beautiful things, chief among them that it looked like most NJ>. ahmmx didn't give a hang about what happened to the rest. Out around Pete there are very few of the boys, the last one seen by him was Ed Tracy, who came through in July. Pete is working for the Austin Construction Co., constructing buil£ngs at the Tongue Point Naval Air Base, three miles northeast of Astoria, Ore. Pete's work consists of mostly drafting, instrument work, and just being a general enipneer. All of which is rather out of Pete's major in chemistry, but he says tliat he enjoys the work very much. 
I suppose that it will be treason, fifth column activity, and what have you. but Pete is the authority for what th ^ are doing at this plaee, and I'm going to take the chance of revealing what may be military secrets concerning one of America's most important bases, built to resist the encroachment of salmon, I think. Anyway, they are building about 16 large concrete buildings, in­cluding two hangars for seaplanes. 
Included in this letter about the work he is doing P^ete gave a blow to a Notre Dame man who is also working on the same project. His name is Carl Tavares, head of the Tavares Con­struction Co., an outfit that built a seaplane ramp at the base. The government contractor on the job told Pete that Carl was one of the most honest contractors he had ever met — that it was a pleasure to work with him. Tavares is from Los Angeles, class of 1930. 
Pete also wants letters from the boys; hit ad^ dress is 2101 SX. Yamhill,- Portland. Ore. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
And if Pete wants letters, think of me. Unless we hear from Frank Parka, Dick Anton, Bar ScUedc Bin Dsnnellr. Andr Wibon, Blaik Mj****", Tom Cranin and Joe Harrineton, down in Panama, we will — well, what can we do? 
Clearce Dempser was stationed, when he wrote in Harefa, in the replacement center for the Second Armored Division at Fort Bennin^. Ga. He was aoon to be transferred to the 68th Ar­mored Regiment, a ligfat tank outfit also sta­tioned at Fort Benning. 
Paal Ken is a salesman with the Continental Can Co., and is living at 2446 East 74th Place, Chicago. 
Athletes of Sonth Bend Centra] Catholic'High School were honored at a recent hanonet in the Univer^ty dining halls. Bill Mahoney, Notre Dame track coach, was among the speakers. Don Hennenejr, '37, is their football and basketb.ill coach. Others on the program included Judge J. Elae'r Peak. '12, and Jndge Albert L. Doyle. '27. Bnttcr Aidan, C.S.C '27,was toastmaster. and Brother Hjradntii, CS.C, '25, was master of 
Bobert G. Sanford, 3934 N. Harrlaai1940 Av e Uhraakee, Wisconsin. 
NICE GOING 
Pal>on-the-lmck department: 'WeU up to­ward half of the 690 laymen -who received degrees in 1940 have this year made con­tributions to the Alumni-Association. In view of the large numbers of the class who are still "puttinB out" for advanced educaUon, this record of contribntini? is to be highly commended. The thanks of the Association to the class in general and to Secretary Bob Sanford, who has done a grand job, in particular. 
Perhaps it ought to be resaid here that the amount of contribution is left entirely to the in^vidual. A dollar daring the first y^ r out is suggested for the majority, with the amount increasing" as the years and income increase. 
From Bob Sanford: 
Hiis month is definitely above average, and it really is a pleasure to convey all the news that the boys have sent me. Before we get started with this month's news I want to apologize to JadE MoTcan for not getting his letter in the last issue, but the auditing business doesn't give one nrach time and I was really doing plenty of auditing for a few months. As a matter of fact. Bin Doc^y did all the work on this column last month. Of course. Red Martin did a swell job. and Dave Sprafke came through again. Thanks very much. Bed and Dave, for helping' me out last month. 

Jack Horran wrote this letter Quite a while ago, but all is plenty interesting. Here is what John Barrett has to say: '*Thls is going to be brief as time is short, but have been going to do this for months. Prom the letteriiead you can see where Fm working. [The letterhead reads — Po­tomac XSectrie Power Company, lOth and E. Streets, N.W., Washington, D. O.] Pm doing cost analy^ work in the accounting department here and. although the pay isn't too astonishing, the overtime I put in at time and a half helps a lot. and Fm gettinsr right along. One nice thing Is the five-day week and automatic raises, so before long FlI be iritting pretty, "niatis, of course, if I ean miss ihe draft; I did fait pretty close and dionld ffet mj blank hefore the snmmer is out. My ex-roomy, Barrjr PfdOips, is down at Quan> tieo, Ya., in the Harines and I fix him up with a date now and then when he comes to town." [After a statement like that. Jack, I think some of tiie other boys down at Qoxintico will be look-ins for your aid in ^lending a happy evening away tsout the eamp.J "At the alumni meeting I nm into sndi prominent men of '40 as Harry 
Boisvert. AI Swanser, Cliff Letcher and otben. 
Cliff comes out to the house occasionally and. like 
AI. works with the F.B.I. and is studying law. 
Politician Pat Gorman popped up at Congrev­
roan Bob Grant's office looking for a job. He's 
sttll studying law." [Hope. Pat has a good job 
by now, and also has some more news for as.T 
"Way back in July I was best man at 3cib • 
ConneUey** wedding when he married Hair Bel­
ley, his Senior Ball date from Oil CitT. Pa. Bava 
been dating a girl from St. Joe. Mb., who onee 
knew A] Schmitz, '39, a former secretary of Hr. 
Chizek. and an experienced exam cutter for ttie 
accounting department. 
"Last news I had from the coast, Frank Gutter had lost his mother and. together with his two sisters, was having pretty tough sledding. He was starting then as a meter reader for Pacific Gas & Electric-I'm sure he's going great thouirfi.'!. U-know Frank is really going great, and we are all pulling for him.] Jade Donafanc, I believe, is mth Bank of America. Bob Howard* of Richmond, Va., beat me by a day in taking a job with tiie O-& P. Telephone Co., in Charleston, W. Va. I was getting set to go down for the interview which a kind alumnus had arranged (thanks here to Jim Sblloy) when Jim called to tdl me Bob had gotten. the job." [Congratulations, Bob, I know you will do very well and you know. I really would like to hear from you very soon.] Dave Hitman is here in the C. A. department of the 'Washington Post.*" 
John then adds this P.S.: "I forgot to mention that }'ou might tell Jack MorgMn (the other of us) that I have a nice leather wallet I'll sell him cheap. I got two nice ones for Christmas and they both have the initials J.B.M. stamped on them in gold. He's the only one I know offhand that could use it without changing any part of it." 
Well, John, we will see what John has to say, and I really want to let yon know how I appre­ciate your letter. It took a little time before it reached print, but I know you will understand and write soon. 
There are three letters here which sort of repeat each other. Johnny Gavan writes a 15-page letter, and Bill O'Brien and Don Smitfi each write very informative letters. I would like to have all of John's letter put into print, hut it just can't be done. Johnny's manuscript reads as follows: "Just read your February article and realize that Fve been holding out on you just like, the rest of the boys have. Ihere may be a few interesting bits to be unearthed here in the windy burg. 
"It seems that more of the gang are getting ready to thrill the fairer sex by sporting Uncle Sam's uniforms. Tom Uojd announced the otlier evening that he will be back in the service of the Navy by the time this is written. He took Us cruise last summer and will now move on toward his commission at Abbott Hall here in ChL MB planned on joining with Tom Listen in promoting a 'real' farewell party for themselves. Tom has left home to become one of the aces of the U. S. Air Corps, a flying cadet no less. It seems he has just been flying low in that sporty Buick of his and wants to get us a little higher. 
"Jim Doziogfaae has also heard the calL He gave us the slip here in Chi. and is back in New Jersey. "Hie story is that he will join up viith the "Man's division" of the service — the Marines. He should have waited for the farewell party. Be leaves poor (?) BiO O'Brien alone and unattended in the pitfalls of the world, and, in particular; in those of the Chicago Towers — a certJun friend, I understand. 
"I've been hearing quite regularly from CfcatSt "Murph' Barradc He's doing himself up in mifi^ty fine style out at the U. of Colorado. He sports nothing but the latest Buick convertible ^dien be contributes to the pleasure of those mighty fine little co-eds. He's taking accounting, so yen can warn the income tax collectors right now that they may just as well forget the Barrack millions as a source of income because they won't have a chance. 
"Saw Bob Bertney on the street the other day. He was maldnsr that wild last-minute rixsh of the old S. B. trolley that we all remember so well (and so pleasantly). Pa«l Glass -was mighty nice the other day by inviting me to have dinner with him. Anybody else wishing to buy my dinner, please don't hesitate. Paul is still one of the mainstays with Studebaker here in Chicago. "Hs is in line for a new pnnnotion, and will now have a dianee to go to the Empire Room onee in a while. 
"Got a long-awaited letter from Joe Sotak the other day. Joe and Tom Hammond, who have been suite-mates (isn't that sweet, thou^?) at XT. of 
-Michigan law school, have been turning things opade down in the little town of Ann Arbor. It seems there was a little mix-up as to who was educating who, but everything is fixed now. Joe has had some bad luck though in that his father has been taken (jutte sick and it has been neces­sary for Joe to STO home to Cleveland and help oat with the family basisess. He will ke ^ np with his law work at the IT. of Cleveland." [That reminds roe that Tom ^mimond promised to write me during football season. I'm still looking for that long letter. Torn.} 
"Jerry Donovan has just received another pro­

' motion from Kemper Insurance. He is now direct-' ing the movements of part of the claim depart­ment for Chicago from their downtown o0ce. It is no longer necessary for him to go out in the street and get banged up in the interest of busi­ness. He and Betty Jo are still spending a great deal of time together. As a matter of fact she takes up just about all of his time, but believe me I couldn't think of a better way of spending it myself." [When I was given the job as class sec, I would have given very good odds that Jerry would be among the first to.write, but al­most a year has passed and still no word from Donovan. Jerry, why don't you and Betty Jo at down and write a letter tonight?] 
"Joe Smalley. of N. Y.. has a position with the 'Popular Mechanics' magaune in New York and seems to be doing well. He graduated as a jour­nalist and has now proved that he really meant it. He has been crossing swords with some of 
N. Y.'s finest fencers at the New York Athletic <^ub, to which he belongs. 
"Hal Sitt, who has now joined our ranks ifi GiL has just enlisted with the Notre Dame Vio­toiy Singers, the alumni chorus here in the city. Tern Ueyd, BiH Hopkins. Bob McHale and I all belong. Bb^es Walih is following in his father's footsteps and is getting ready to be a famous lawyer. He is attending law school and doing ^ very welU BEcGoldridc. Bob Sallivan. Hooney and . abont 50 others joined Paal Glass in bidding a fond farewell to a couple of bis roommates on thar way to the army. Paul -vrill have to get some new recruits or he will be all alone up at the 
N.D. quarters on the near north side. Ed Be«nor, '39, has joined the forces of the Morton Salt Co., where I am still workiag. He is working in the accounting end of things and really doing well. 
"A little good luck has also found its way to my doorstep. I have just been made assistant to the sales manager of Illinois and Indiana. Ihis is a break Fve really been hoping for. Having Indi­ana as j>art of the territory in which I work may make it easier for me to slip down to old N.D. in the fatore. At least I can see how much Mor­ton salt our honored University is using. Just a littie afraid we will have to put the pressure on. 
"Understand that Bob Sayia's father has been taken seriously ill and has been forced to quit work and take a complete rest. This leaves the vic e business for most of the U.S. (pertiaps a little exaggerated) in the hands of Bob and his 

. brother. Bob really should have no trouble keeping the money rolling in and the pepper rolling out. Got np to Milwankee to see the N.D. fencing team take care of Marquette. Z have been doing some fencing at Hermanson's Fencing Club at the U .of Qiicago. I really can't keep going or I 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
would have to have it published in hook form.** 
John. I really don't know how to thank yoa tot that letter. It makes one a little lonesome for old KJ>. and his classmates. I really intend seeing yoa very soon so as to get some of the news yon skipped. 
Don SMIUI is another '40 man back in the fold, and he returns a married man. Don tells all of ns: "Just another of the apparently 'lost sons* of *40 reporting. I feel that i^s way past my time to report my news and help yoa ont. I sorely hope many others will write yoa, too. Ail of us, fel­lows of '40 here in Peoria miss the rest of you and are anxious to know of everyone's activities. 
"First. Bob, let me tell yon of my start in the so-called 'outside world.' Incidentally. Peoria isn't my home town; It happens to he Spring Valley, 
m. Last Auff. 21 I took the 'fatal step* with BOss Helen Heuser, at St. Joseph's church, in Pern, ni. But let me tell you it was the happiest step I've ever taken. Tm employed in the treasury department of Caterpillar IVactor Co. here in Peoria. B(y job involves a considerable amount of credit work. Just recently I was transferred to the export division of the treasury department and I find my work very exciting and interesting. Caterpillar employs some 13,000 people, among them, as you know. Gcorre Preston. Jim Varva. and John Hidnboflien. All three are doing right well in their two-year apprentice coarse. ZASt I saw of them they were working along the big diesel tractor, assembly line. Fete Arboit. ex. '41. is also working here, doing his 5ob on the second shift. Pete's brother, Ennio, '38. coach at Spalding Institute, just took his team all the way to sec­ond place in the State Catholic basketball tourney. 
"I've played all season on our company's team, the Caterpillar 'Diesels.' recognized as one of the outstanding amateur teams in the state. We have won 20 and lost 7 games, playing some of the best teams in the country. 
"Hy roomie. Bill O'Brien, of the New Jersey O'Briens, is working in Chicago for a New York firm, and doing rig^t well, private secretary, et al. He was rooming with Jim Donogfaoe at the Chicago Towers Club, but Jim enlisted in the Marines and left for Qoantico, Va. 
"I'm looldng forward to seeing all the boys again as soon as jtossible — another son re­ported—" 
-Just keep on reporting, Don. It's really swell to hear from ^ou and to know that Pm not the only one who would like to be back at N.D. for a while. Tour roommate also wrote a letter this month, but it was written in his own writing. No sign of a secretary. 
Bin O'Brien's letter is put in at the end be­cause it was the last one received. It isn't because I wanted to put yoa on the sitot. Bill, but because it was rather hard to figure out just who was repeating whom in these three letters. Tou, at lea^ say it differently. Bill, so here is the whole 
.t last I am Kettins started on that lonsr-. ^~: Dromi  letter. Hy spirit was witlin?, but my 
promised pen was dry and you know.I never buy my own ink. Anyway, Fll see i£ I can scrape up a little news for yon to pass alon?. 
"Lessee, now! If you remember, I'm working for a N. Y. commercial banking bouse under the hli^-soundine title of Chicago representative, and will probably remain here till they find out about me." [With a title like that yon must have a private secretary as your ex-roomy, Don, once said.] "We're the dirty financiers who are pro* motins the war propaganda (boos and hisses). Up until a few weeks ago Jim Donofline and I were rooming together at the Chicago Towers, but Jim upped vid went home to join the Marines at Qoantico. 'Ole KP,' Donoghne — we call him MQvd now. 
"I see several of the boys pretty often. IfaoM* Donovan (M.E.) lives nearby and is going great suns in the training course at Commonwealth Edison. We may get together on an apartment soon. Dan LaniUin and Dick Wn a (ex. *40) find me a willing partidpant in a poker same every couple of weeks. Dan is in tiie imdertaldns bu^ess. while Dick is working as a dty eui^ neer and going to De Paul nl^ita. 
"Jeny Donovan has been worldng in flie famr­ance oiHce of J. S. Kemper rather than in the field since he stepped in front of a non-rtop taad and broke his wrist. While eating with Jerry the other night he informed me of a rumor that be might be drafted. So he's been sleeping wHh hli shoes oS trying to catch a cold. Here's news that hasn't reached the 'Alumnus^ yet: my ex-roomy, Don Smith, was married last August and ^le blissful couple are living in Peoria. Flash! Georse Wallace was married at the Cathedral here Teb. 22 to Hary Donohue, in whose sdster Jerry Don­ovan is reputedly interested. 
"Had a game of handball with Tom Lloyd re­cently. Tbm is all set to go on another emiae with the naval reserve soon. Morrie Noona« la also in town working for the Chicago Screw Com­pany, but we've had no word from him for woae time now." 
Bill, that was a swell job, but I don't see why 

. you made us wait so long for such a very enter­taining letter. Hope to bear a lot moie from yoa every month now. 
One of the A.B. men actually settled down to write a note and Jim "Shad" Cannon wrote: "About time I let you know that I am working at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft in East Hartford, Conn. Have seen a lot of Hymio Crane and Ed Pratt. Pot a little life into the Philosophy majors and let's hear what they are doing." 
Shad, you're very correct about those Philooaphy majors, because they really are among the kiet squadron. Shad's address is 51 Somner St., Hart­ford, Conn. 
Ben Hardodc wrote a very interesting letter: "I just left Arthur Anderson & Co., Chicago, one of the five largest accounting iirms in the world. Before the 'rush' season terminated my eonnee­tion with A.A. temporarily, I saw quite a lot of the sooth and west. 
"White in St. Loois I contacted Bea SaeU, who is doing his damdest to become a doctor. Didc Fhilion tells me that he quit American lM«eeo, and is now working with the Hishavraka Woolen Hfg. Co. (Ball Band). Don O'Neill is still in Accounts Payable at Bendix." 
(3ood going, Ben, keep things going the way you have been, and let's see yon show A.A-
Dave Bernard wrote a letter when still a ^vB­ian, but right now he is a soldier. Davo writes: "I^iesday, March 18 at eight AM. I was in­ducted into the army under the Selective Service Act. there are probably lots of other fellows in this same condition. 
"Other than this, I worked in a bank, CItixena National Trust & Savings Bank of Los Angeles. I was quite fortunate in getting the job as the bank, as a rule, does not hire college grads. I started work two weeks after graduation. I at­tended banking school at nl^t s and took eorre­spondence courses that are offered. Now I am a bookkeeper and when I retom from my year of service I will be able to go back into the job. 
"Just heard that George Ward added to U s family circle; the young one weired in at cifl^t pounds, four ounces. Rob Rotharker is at Har­vard business school and, from letters, he is really working hard. Dick Earr is at Randolph Field spending the day flying. As soon as I get settled in the Army Camp I'll let yoa know about army life." 
We will all be looldng forward to yoor im­pressions of living with the rest of the bo9S in the great American army. Dave's home address is 333 S. Windsor Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif.. 
' Right now all I can think about is the great break 1 got recently. I have a permanent job as a jonior aeeoontant wifli 0» pabBe Hia I had a tssq^oniT j<* iria last I dsddsd to camUe that tke arny woaUnt set • • till after the nact Insy wmmm. 
Jmt had to cross oat a Cnr things I a ^ ikort j;CTir Bm»tam at tiw hwinninc of the aitidska­eanse I jnst leedvsd a tatter from US L Jen r says: 
"Today I was caUed upstairs to sss tta tvo Notre Dame boys who were in Oiitisio to has* an Interview wHh mr conpany, T iialm mtm'a Motoal. etc. Both <a the boys are flafaUac ia June and it i n nil d great to see sooia. cam bom the eampna. If s fcrnesooe after Briar fMr years witt a banA of good 'Joe^ to iUiHlly find yoorsdf in a strange plaee. (I can't liuUifDl­ly say that Chicago is so strange. Anyway, it started me to fhink&ic and so now Tm writia») 
Te a Ltataa called to say that he joinsd Os army of flying cadets. Be said he^s to ao to Sa>­dolph Field after three nwnths in TUsa (I) — my mother expects him for dinner soon. Toss toU me thst, Jadt (Lefty to some) Baccis is *t PSB­sacola in the Naval Flying Corps. [Jerry also mentianed Jias Diaukai end tarn Usj4.] 
"Jae LaiUa is also shootiac for sn'ensIgB's commisrion In the Naval Beservc. Ttai Var n was called for the draft — Fort Dix, I believe. Heard from 'roomie' Okk Kdly: he's been trsnlinc aroond a bit for tiie company. Bab BalMy (daas of '34) was moved bum Lumbermen's to Sana Bend ss asastant manager of the brandi office thei& 
"Geoise WaOaee was msrried in Febnary. They had a wedding breakfast at fl>e Drake. Oat left for Washington. George is working for 1T.S. Gypsom in New York, ao they wffl Hve ia Brook­lyn — address later. Had dinner with BiH (yViim the other day. bat missed the odMis. rm-iUlI trying to get over to see Cssitt and Doro«h» Becker's family — PU get there soon." 
Jerry can be reached at Kemper Innranc^ Chicago. Thanks. Jcary. Fve been eipeetinr that letter for a long time and Pm ^ad it finally came. 
I forgot to give the addresses of the othv fal­lows: Jack MsfCaa rceuves his mail at tM7 ISid St, N.W., Washington, D. O.: Jsta Gavan ovena his maU at the Hotel Windermere^ Chleaao: Ifr. and Mrs. Smith Uve at 1122 Wiseondn Ave.. Peoria, m. : and'Bill O'Brin calls flw CUeaco Towers his bcma. 
Wasn't that great, fellowa, reading all Ooss kttersT Wish it eoold be that way every tisM^ and it could, too; if aboat d x of yoa wrote evs 9 Ottnth. Before pladag tiie "finis" on tUs noath's news I want to thank aU thoas iriio wrote, and ask Ted UAtma, BIB Beechd, Ds*- Csiid. La Cend. Bak PeieaasiU. Hank Eagel. Bfli Fsy. Jafca and Ta« FeiBi<sg. Fsal HAaalh and Rank Nilililrf to write soon. — FINISL 
Bin Fay. editor of the "Sdiolastier' in the "good old days," is now on the vorU desk with tha "CJueagb Tribane" following a torn with flw "Fittdmrsh Fost-Gasette" since last Jane. 
Bea TwiHia natil recently eoaeh at John Adams Hi ^ Sdiool in Sooth Bend I*, as a ranlt of ttie draft. In a cavalry unit and is loeatid at Fort Biler. Kans. What nnre natural than that a Sheridan and a hone riioald get togsthert 
Wsyae Wahl is with IntemstioBal Bminess tM.^tn^ and is now woridng in Soath Bend. 
Bsheit S. Dcastter. Jaha H. Kcnigsa. and Babcrt W. Bstiaett. sll medical students at Western Bcierve V., Clevdand. were leesntly initiatad in Phi Bho SUima. a mecScal fraternity on the Western Bcserve eanpos. 
Ltayd.U KB^ter. ex. '40. ii dilef duaust sad chemical engineer at a Merrill. Wis., paper mW. He was recently dected a member of the Ibchnt­eal Asioristion of the polp sad paper Indnstiy. 
WsMer A. SwcHar hss passed Us phyrical exams and has been aeetptcd for traininc ia the air corps. He is to be connected wHh Os ratt. diridoK Walt was.wiUi WSBT. SooOi Bend. 
The97+h 

COMMENCEMENT 
of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
It's not all complete, in detail. But just plan to be here. 
Here are a few of the highlights that v/ill make the days memorable. 
I. The week-end is well adapted to a big attendance, with Memorial Day occurring on Friday, May 30. 
II. The Memorial Day Mass will probably be the Mass for Deceased Alumni, with added significance. 
III. On Friday, in keeping with the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the wishes of the University, and the demand of alumni, and in keeping with the nature of the holiday, a special alumni forum will be held, dedicated to discussion by able leaders, and discussion from the floor, of current political problems, with emphasis on their proper interpretations as Notre Dame teaches them. 
IV.
 Reunions this year indicate a high interest quotient. The Class of 1916 holds the spotlight, as the President's own Reunion. But heavier in numerical strength will be 1936, 193! and 1926, with 1921 a potential fourth. Classes of 1911 and 1906 have strong memberships, well represented even in the "off-years." Men of '01, '96 and '91 will complete in smaller but even more cherished gatherings the Reunion picture. 

V.
 Saturday morning will incorporate the now famous 1936-1931 Softball game. 


VI. Also on Saturday morning, 640 Seniors, one of Notre Dame's largest Classes, will march in cap and gown .for the Last Visit and the Class Day Exercises. 
VII. On Friday and on Saturday afternoons. Coach Jake Kline's nine will stage intersectional games on Cartier dia­mond v/ith the University of California team. 
Vlll. And also on Saturday, v/henever the time seems best adapted, a second alumni forum, devoted to a discus­sion of economic problems — labor, wages, investments, etc. — will be held, with faculty and alumni par­ticipation. 
IX.
 On Saturday night, the Alumni Banquet in the University Dining Halls should reach a new peak, in program and attendance. 

X.
 Sunday, rumor indicates a program at the Baccalaureate Mass and Commencement, which will attract all who t can possibly attend. . •-'*'"!H. 


XI. At the instruction of the Board of Directors, based on growing alumni demand, a charge will be instituted for alumni, simply to help defray the substantial physical cost of alumni attendance at Commencement. It will probably take the form of a dollar a night for a room in the residence halls, and one dollar for the alumni banquet. Obviously, the charge is nominal to the point of covering bare costs, but it will relieve the sub­stantial burden involved (last year's registration was almost 1,000) and at the same time will not place in the way of the young alumnus any real barrier to his attendance. Put on your calendar 
MAY 30, MAY 31 and JUNE I. 1941 
Reunion and Commencement at Notre Dame 





