The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
•^•.^jL^ti^^jmv^^wwiiBgw.l. ••, ..^j ^ iwtaw^*t.v). mM^« if1iiMiiifi'iirHn»iii 
^akon froi. tbe LibrarT 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
15th Annual 
U.N. D. 
Nieht 
April 25 
NSC Coastto-Coast Program from the Campus 9:15-9:45 P.M. (Central Standard Time) 
Spring at Notre Dame  
Vol. 16  March-April, 1938  No. 5  
Kg*«»g»V^fe«!r-!lWii!gB8VPJJy5Sii,^^  

The Notre Dame Alumnus 


eiTTS 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
From Joseph P. Grace, LL.D., '37: 
For the President's Fund -$5,000.00 
From John E. Moor^ os. '07: 

A gas analyzer for the Department of Aeronautical Engineering 
From Prof. Stanley Sessler:  
An oil painting, by tlie don or.  
For  th e Rockne Memorial  
Bendix Pioducts Corp. George L. O'Brien, os. ^South Bend Clearing HouseWilson BrofKers. Soulli Bend F. W. Lloyd. Notre Dame Howard J. Rohan. '15 Richman Brothers. South Bend . Mrs. AX'illiam E. Donahue. ChicRev. A. Sund, Tonsberg. NorwaJames McKee. "93  ­. ago y  4_--_.-.-- 1.500.00  1,000.00  1.000.00  250.00  200.00  200.00  150.00  100.00  10.00  10.00  Mark Storen. '22 Ralph S. Penney, Walkill. U I. Total Aclmowledged in January ALUMNUS Acknowledged in February ALUMNUS Previously acknowledged, through the original solicitation Grand total to date, March 1, 1938­ 5.00 1.00 -$ 4.426.00 - 2.000.00 - 6.923.00 - 153.948.49 -$167,297.49  

For the Nieuwiand Memorial 
In the February issue of the ALUMNUS, the gifts to the Nieuwiand Memorial Foimdation by the following donors were erroneously reported as to amount. The proper amounts of the gifts are: 

Dr. George B. Eusterman. Rochester. Minn. -$100.00 
Dr. Charles M. A. Stine, Wilmington 250.00 
J. Fendall Froning. '37 Henry D. Hinton. '30  _ 15.00 _ 50.00  
".  .  , This particular gesture of  Additional Gifts: Anonymous  2,000.00  

building a field house in his beau­Dr. William S. Calcolt, Wilmington -200.00 tiful memory has made a profound 
Mr. E. R. Bridgewater, Wilmington 200.00 Dr. Cesare Protto, Wilmington 150.00 

impression over the entire country. 

Dr. Edmund G. Robinson, Wilmington 150.00 In this busy world of today people Thomas B. Dorris, '33 -100.00 Carl J. Senger, '37 100.00 

as a whole forget too easily the 

George F. Hennion, '32 50.00 great men of the past whose great Robert J. Thomas, Notre Dame . 50.00 accomplishments arc generally for­Lawrence A . Baldinger, *33 50.00 P. A. McCusker, "30 40.00 

gotten a year or so after death. I 

Eugene J. Paylon. "23 25.00 am glad to see that two wonderful Edward A. Bried. 35 25.00 Dr. John M. Cooney. Ph.D., '17 , 10.00 

men such as Rockne and Will 

James S. Danehy, Chicago 10.00 
Rogers were remembered with such 

A. B. Kinzel, New York City — 10.00 
grand memorials. America needs James McKee. '93 10.00 Dr. James P. Danehy, '33 . 5.00 

more men like the two above in­

William B. Dreux, '33 „ . 5.00 stead of the great number of rad­Mark Storen, '22 . 5.00 

icals now trying to run the coun­

William H. Sheehan, '35 5.00 Dr. Joseph A. Becker, Mt. Lakes, N. J. 2.00 
try."—From a Uller turiHcn b^ a recent suhscriher to the RocJ^tie Total _$ 3,617.00 Memorial Fund. Previously acknowledged ._ 20,427.05 
Grand total to date. March 1, 1938 -$24,044.05 

/^idu ^ (^T/C'COtA.^'J.C. 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTSONC. "25 The nmirazine is published from October to June inclusive by the Alumni Association Member of the Americaa 
of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is 92.00 
Editor Alunmi CauBcU. 
a year; the price of single copies is 23 cents. The annual alumni dues of ¥5.00 include 
WnxiAM R, DooLEY, 7 6 a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. Member of Nal1. Calholic 
Afanagittg Editor 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Alumni Federation 
Vol. 16 MARCH-APRIL. 1938 No. 5 

Four Generations of Notre Dame Coquillards 
Grandson of First Student is Present Sopho­
more; Will Receive Notre Dame Degree 
in Centennial Year of 1942; History is Told. 
Coming events cast their shadows before them. Is it a coincidence, or is it the completion of a pattern in the history of an institution and that of a family, that Notre Dame, antici­pating the celebration of its first hun­dred years in 1942, finds the name of Alexis Edward Coquillard among its prospective graduates for that year? 
The young man of whom we speak is a sophomore in the College of Com­merce. He is 22 years old, having been bom October 1, 1915. He is six feet tall, blond and blue eyed like that first Alexis, one of South Bend's founders, typical Frenchman and his great grand uncle. Yoimg Alexis is an ardent football and basketball fan. He was graduated from the South Bend Central High School and won several junior tennis championships in the northern Indiana territory during his high school career. 
History has a way of repeating it­self. The ambition of the present Alexis is to be a C.P,A, accountant and la^vyer. One hundred years ago, the saintly Father Sorin planted the seed of the great institution of Notre Dame when he took the grandfather of this lad, whose name was Ale-^ds Coquillard also, and unfolded to his mind the rudiments of a practical education. The College of Commerce is looked upon as being a recent addi­tion in the curriculum of the Univer­sity, but here again if we go back to the beginning, we find that Father 
Sorin began his University with' a School of Commerce. Father Sorin was a famous teacher, and his pupil, Alexis Coquillard, developed into a no less famous business man; the Uni­versity has developed beyon d its founder's dreams, and so to the pres-• ent Alexis, good luck! 
The young man's other grandfather was also one of Notre Dame's illus­trious sons. He was the late Honor­able George E. Clarke, a noted orator. 
He received the degrees of LL.B. in 1881, B.A. in 1886, and in 1891 he was awarded the degree of Master of Arts. Mr. Clarke was for some years connected with this institution as a professor of mathematics, history, and oratory, and later taught in the School of Law. 
For more than a hundred. years Notre Dame and men bearing the name Alexis Coquillard have been walking hand in hand. To imder­stand this one must turn back the pages of history even before Notre Dame itself had a being and the site of the present University was known as the mission on St. Mary's Lake. About 1832 Father Badin's mission was taken over by Father Louis De-Seille, who ministered to the Chris­tian Indians and the French families living in the vicinity, among whom was that of Benedict Michel Coquil­lard and his wife, Sophie Andre Co­quillard, parents of Alexis Coquillard, 
ALEXIS COQUILLARD, I ALEXIS COQUILLARD, II ALEXIS COQUILLABO, m 
First Student. Later Student. Present Student. 
136 The Notre Dame Alumnus March - April 
first student, who lived on the south bank of St. Mary's Lake, not far from the present log chapel. It is needless to say that there was a strong bond of affection betiveen the pioneer French family, who had come to this vicinity from the settlement of Detroit, and the young missionary from far off France. So much so that the artist who has depicted the death of the pioneer missionary on the walls of the Log Chapel, depicted the devotion of his friend, Benedict Michel Coquillard, father of Alexis Coquillard, who was to be Father Sorin's first student, showing him supporting the dying priest in his arms. 
It is not easy to follow the story of the Coquillard's and what was, at one time, known as Father Badin's mission or merely the mission on St. Mary's Lake. To do so one must re­vert to the last of the great French fur traders, namely Alexis Coquillard of Detroit, who came to the vicinity of South Bend in 1823 as a represen­tative of the Astor American Fur Trading Company. The life of this man reads like a romance; he was almost a giant in stature and physical endurance, and had the vision of a superman for trading with the In­dians, acting as interpreter and medi­ator for the government in making treaties; opening up the country for commerce; promoting institutions of learning, Christianity, and culture in this valley of the St. Joseph. His career began as a boy in the frontier village of French Detroit when, in the war of 1812, he acted as a scout under Major George Croghan, the younger, and, as a scout, brought help to the American garrison under General Harrison, then in defense at Fort Stephenson. 
This Coquillard developed the trad­ing post on the banks of the St. Joseph into the ^-illage that he after­wards helped to incorporate into the town of South Bend. And it was to him that Father Edward Sorin, a young missionary from France, came 
-.with a letter of credit for a little more than two hundred dollars and about three hundred more in cash, from the Bishop at Vincennes with instructions to take over the land pre­viously bought by Father Badin. The date was November 26, 1842, and snow covered the fields and the land looked cold and forbidding, but Fa­ther Sorin was full of enthusiasm; and, having settled his business af­fairs wit h Alexis Coquillard, the trader, he was keen to see the land that he had bought. Looking about for some one to send the two miles distant to the mission on the banks of St. Mary's Lake, the trader turned naturally to his nephew and name­sake. The first Alexis Coquillards were uncle and nephew, the boy being the son of the trader's brother Bene­dict Michel (or Benjamine as he was known) who had been Father De­Seille's neighbor and friend. 
The pioneer priest. Father Sorin, 
GEORGE E . CLARKE, '81 
Grandfather of Present Student. 

and the pioneer boy, Alexis Coquil­lard, became fast friends from that cold November day when they trav­eled together across the ferry at Col­fax Avenue, o^vned by the older Alexis but operated by the nephew. Out to the mission they went, the boy showing the young priest the site of the future Notre Dame and the priest taking the boy as his first pupil. The fortunes of both developed together. The priest became the founder of a great university and the boy, the manufacturer of the once well loiown Coquillard wagon, which business he established in 1865. Later in life when his pupil married Miss Maude 
•Perley in 1881, it was Father Sorin who performed the ceremony, and later when their two sons, Alexis and Joseph were bom, it was Father Sorin who • baptized them acting as godfather and giving him his own name to the older. Thus the name of Alexis Edward Coquillard was given to the son of Father Sorin's first pu­pil and friend. When still more years had passed and the first pupil lay dead in 1890, it was Father Sorin who said the requiem Mass and the beloved Father Thomas Walsh, presi­dent of the University, who preached the funeral sermon. 
In 1888, at the age of six. Father Sorin's god-child and namesake, Alexis Edward Coquillard, Sr., altmi­nus (class 1903), entered the institu­tion in the minim department under Sister Aloysius and Brother Cajetan and remained at the University until 1901. Since 1905 he has conducted a general insurance agency in South Bend and was president of the Indi­ana Association of Insurance agents in 1932. He is at present recorder of St. Joseph County, Indiana, to which oifice he was elected on the Republican ticket in 1934. It is per­haps another coincidence that Notre Dame and South Bend are both lo­cated in St. Joseph County, Indiana. 
Time marches on; Alexis Edward Coquillard, Jr., is a student in the College of Commei-ce at the Univer­sity; his father, Alexis E. Coquillard, Sr., carries on the traditions in the business world in South Bend and in the shadow of the golden dome of the University. In Cedar Grove cemetery rest the bodies of the Alexis Coquil­lards—^fur trader and co-founder of South Bend; his brother, Benedict Michel (or Benjamin) and Alexis Coquillard, Notre Dame's first stu­dent, and at the University, itself, rest the pioneer priests. Father Badin, Father DeSeille and Father Sorin. 

KNUTE KENNETH ROCKNE 
IN MEMORIAM 

(Knute Kenneth Rockne, director of ath­letics of the University of Notre Dame, out-' standing coach of football, idol of youth, was killed in an airplane crash near Bazaar, Kan­sas, March 31, 1931. He was bom in Voss, Norway, March 4, 1888.) 
"j7ito the game he stormed his way, And he moulded the me»i to his need. A 7nillion boys are men today That their hearts have known his creed. Hit hard! Live clean! Heads up! Shoot square! Don't alibi! End wliat you start! That ivas the stuff that got him there— Kmite of the Fighting Heart!" 


(From a verse written immediately 
after his death by Heies Frost.) KNUTE K. ROCKNE 
March - April The Notre Dame Alumnus 

NBC Program Heads 15th Gala U.N.D. Night 
National Hook-Up, Supplemented by 100 Local Stations, 100 Local Group Meetings; Campus Pro­gram at New High; Watch Local Press for Details. 
A half-hour national broadcast, most of it emanating from the campus of the Universitj' of Notre Dame, has been arranged with the National Broadcasting Company for Universal Notre Dame Night, Monday, April 25. This fifteenth annual universal tribute to Notre Dame is most fittingly made available through this medium to every alumnus, whether he be in one of the 100 Local Club group meetings or whether he be isolated from his fellow Notre Dame men. 
Time of the broadcast is 9:15 to 9:45 central stand­ard time. Daylight time will be in effect, so the ALUJI­
xus urges all alumni to w^atch the local papers for details. An integral part of the Night, in the several commun­ities, has become the cooperation of the Local Hadio Sta­tions. Again these invaluable agencies for a fitting local observance have been most generous in their cooperation with the Alumni Association in a project which brings mutual advantage. Campus speakers and other entertaining features have already been announced by many of the Local Clubs, all planning foi- the Night — Monday, April 25, the Fifteenth Annual Universal Notre Dame Night. 
The following Radio Stations have promised co-operation'' 
ALABAMA Birmingham—WSGN 
ARIZONA Phoenix—KOY Tucson—KGAR Tucson—KVOA 
ARKANSAS Hot Springs—KTHS Little Hock—KGHI Little Rock—IvARK Texarkana—^IvCMC 
CALIFORNIA Bakersfield—KERN Chico—ICHSL Long Beach—KFOX Los Angeles—^KFWB Los Angeles—KMTR Monterej'—KDON San Diego—KGB San Francisco—KYA 
COLORADO 
Greeley—^KFKA 
CONNECTICUT Hartford—WTHT Waterbury—WBRY 
FLORIDA Jacksonville—WMBR Jacksonville—WJAX Pensacola—^WCOA 
GEORGIA Atlanta—WATL Savannah—WTOC 
IDAHO MICHIGAN Boise—KIDO Bay Cit}-—WBCM Nampa—IfFXD Grand Rapids—^WOOD Twin Falls—KTFI Ironwood—WJMS 
ILLINOIS Chicago—yVJJD Rock Island—WHBF Springfield—WTAX 
INDIANA Gaiy—WIND 
Indianapolis—^WFBM Muncie—^WLBC South Bend—WSBT-WPAM 
IOWA Sioux City—KTRI 
KANSAS Abilene—KFBI Hutchinson—KWBG Kansas City—KCKN Salina~KS.A.L 
KENTUCKY Paducah—WPAD 
LOUISIANA Shreveport—KRMD 
MAINE Presque Isle—WAGJI 
MARYLAND Fi-ederick-WFMD 
MASSACHUSETTS Boston—WEEI Lowell—WLLH Springfield—WMAS 
MINNESOTA Rochester—KROC Saint Paul—WMm 
MISSISSIPPI Vicksburg—"WQBC 

MISSOURI Kansas City—^WHB  St. Louis—^KWK 
MONTANA Jlissoula—KGVO 
NEBRASKA Omaha—WAAW Scottsbluff—KGKY 

NEW JERSEY Asburv Park—WCAP Atlantic City—WPG 
NEW MEXICO Albuquerque—KGGM CIo\-is—KIC-4. Santa Fe—KRQA 
NEW YORK Auburn—WMBO 

BrookhTi—WARD New York City—WINS New York City—WHOM 
NORTH CAROLINA Chariotte—WSOC Greensboro—^WBIG 
OHIO 
Ala-on-WJW Cincinnati—WLW Cleveland—WHK-WCLE Columbus—WBNS Dayton—WHIO 
PENNSYLVANIA 
Philadelphia—WHAT Philadelphia—WTEL Pittsburgh—KQV 
SOUTH DAKOTA 
Rapid City—KOBH 
TENNESSEE 
Chattanooga—^WDOD 
Memphis—^WHBQ 
Nashville—WSIX 
TEXAS 
Beaumont—^KFDM Brownsville—^KGFI Dallas—KRLD Fort Worth—KTAT Galveston—KLUF San Antonio—^OIAC 
VIRGINIA 
Danville—WBTM Lynchburg—WLVA Newport News—WGH Norfolk—WTAE 
WASHINGTON Seattle—KEEN Wenatchee—KPQ Yakima—KIT 
WEST VIRGINIA Fairmont—^WMMN Huntington—^WSAZ 
WISCONSIN 
La Crosse—WKBH 

* The above 96 Stations in 37 States i-epresent onl}-The Alumni Office ivill have material for interviews, an­those Stations which have been heard from as of March 1. nouncements, music, skits, etc. available for Club and Clubs in communities not represented by the above are Station use, upon request. 
138 The Notre Dame Alumnus March- April 


UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS 
JUDGE WILLIAM M. CAIN, 66 ^ years old, distinguished associate professor of law at Notre Dame since 1930, died suddenly in his home in South Bend on February 1 after a heart attack. 
Judge Cain came to the campus as a teacher after practicing law in Nebraska for many years. A gradu­ate of the University of Nebraska, he had served as prosecuting attorney of Butler county, Nebraska, as city attorney of Fremont, Nebraska, and as a member of the Nebraska su­preme court commission. 
Eev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, vice-president of the University, sang the solemn requiem funeral Mass in Sacred Heart Church on the campus. The law students attended the Mass in a body. 
(A reaction to the Judge's sudden death, typical of the %'ie\vpoint of the many students who knew him well, will be found under "Campus Notes" in this issue.) 
J
UDGE JOHN P. McGOORTY of 
the Cook County Superior Court, 
Chicago, was appointed to the fac­
ulty of the College of Law for the 
second semester as the result of the 
death of the late Judge Cain. Judge 
McGoorty, the father of John P. Mc-
Goorty, Jr., '24, comes to Notre Dame 
once a week to conduct the course in 
trial court procedure. He has not 
relinquished his judicial duties in 
Chicago. 
 JtEASUEmC the sun's Ught, 
B
y Dr. Arthur Haas, professor of physics at the University, has found that the sun ought to be burned up in 20,000 years, he recently told sci­entists at the Ajnerican Physical So­ciety's meeting in New York City. 
But the sun does not hum at this rate. Dr. Haas explained. Some now unknown mechanism of manufactur­ing energy within the sun, he de­clared, must be found to explain its radiation. 
•HTITH THE ADDITION of Canon 
'* Georges Le Maitre to the fac­ulty, Notre Dame can well claim the distinction of being among the fore­most among the universities of the country in field of mathematics and physics. 
Canon Le Maitre's work has been invaluable in the scientific world. 
The Belgian priest expounds the theory that the entire universe orig­inated from one atom in which was conser\'ed all energy. Canon Le Maitre and Dr. Einstein have been friends for many years, and the young priest is rated in excellence with such men as Dr. Einstein, .Sir Arthur Eddington, and Dr. De Sitter. Canon Le Maitre is but 42 years old, and the youngest of the distinguished group of mathematicians. 
In 1922 Canon Le Maitre went to Harvard to study with the aid of an endowment from the funds of the American Commission for the Be­lief of Belgium. While professor at Louvain University, Belgium, he won the Francqui Prize of 500,000 Bel­gian francs (about ?23,300). This famed prize is given annually to the Belgian who has brought honor to his countrj' through advancement in sci­ence. 
TfiEBRUARYlecturers included: 
Bisho p James Edward Walsh, superior general of the Catholic For­eign Mission Society of Maryknoll, New York; Frank J. Sheed and his wife, Masie Ward Sheed, (in separate lectures); Dean Howard Higgins, of Emmerson College, Boston, in an ex­posure of the methods of mediums and fortune tellers; W. McNeil Ken­nedy, regional administrator of the Securities an d Exchange Commis­sion; Arvid L. Frank, president of the Studebaker Export Corporation; Dr. Frank N. Speller, director of metallurgy and research for the Na­tional Tube Company. 
T>EV. FR.'VNCIS J. WENNINGER, 
•"' C.S.C, dean of the College of Science, talked on "The Biolo^st's View of Life" before the South Bend Business and Professional Women's Club in late January. 
pROF . RAYMOND A. HOYER, of 
the Department of Sociology, was a speaker at the formal dedication of the Franklin Settlement in Detroit on January 25. The Settlement co­operates with the University in pro­viding field work training for gradu­ate students in social service. 
rpHE DEATH recently in Dnbnqoe, 
Iowa, of Dr. J. J. Brownson at the age of 81 years, had a particular significance for Notre Dame. Dr. Brownson was the grandson of Orestes A. Bro\vnson, famed Catholic-convert apologist who lies buried be­neath the basement chapel in Sacred Heart Church on the campus. 
T\R- JOSEPH CATON, a student at 
•L' Notre Dame in 1930-31, is the new assistant medical director on the campus. He is carrying on, in addi­tion, a private practice in the Asso­ciates Building, South Bend. Dr. Ca-ton finished in medicine at St. Louis University in 1936. 
Dr. James E. McMeel continues as chief University physician. 
W
ILLIAM SCHUYLER, instructor in French, was added to the staff of the Department of Modem Lang­uage with the beginning of the sec­ond semester. Mr. Schuyler was graduated from Dartmouth in 1931 and received his master of arts de­gree from the University of Chicago in 1934. He succeeded Father Charles Doremus, C.S.C, who is on leave of absence because of poor health. 
C
HRISTOPHER HOLLIS, English economist and author, has re­turned to Notre Dame for his fourth term as a professor of history and economics. After teaching at Notre Dame last year — and previously — Professor Hollis returned to England for research work during the first semester. 
P
ROFESSOR HENRY C. STAUN­TON addressed the Catholic For­um of South Bend on "The Roman Index of Forbidden Books" on Feb­ruary 21. John W. Gibbons, '30, presided at the meeting. 
"TWTALAGAS," a painting by Pro­
•**•*• fessor Stanley S. Sessler, head of the Art Department, was recog­nized in late January as the second best submitted to the the fourteenth annual Hoosier Salon in Chicago by a teacher of art in an Indiana Cath­olic school. Sister Rufina, of Lafay­ette, Indiana, won the first prize in this group. Professor Sessler con­tributed three paintings in all to the exhibition.. 
The prizes in the Catholic school classification in the Salon are the award of Peter C Riley, of Indian­apolis, a lay trustee of the University. 

March - April The Notre Dame Alumnus 139 
THE PRESIDENT'S PAGE B, wiii.™ E ccBer,« 
From several hundred dollars and a log cabin in 1842 to the present University of Notre Dame is a story that can only conclude with a tribute to the administration of those first meager resources and the additions which time, not mthout tribulation, has brought. 
No one, therefore, has ever ques­tioned the business policies of Notre Dame. No one has doubted the fore­sight and the acumen of those in whose hands these policies have rest­ed through the years. 
This universal respect has resulted however, in a lack of knowledge of conditions whidh transition has cre­ated, particularly in recent years. Through the pages of the ALUMNUS, we hope to clarify Notre Dame's po­sition -so that alumni and, through them, friends of Notre Dame, may have a more vivid picture of the needs of the University in its mod­em status. We hope to present Notre Dame in such a way that none of its past laurels are lost, but in such a way that the laurels of new victories may continue to be the mark of a march of progress that so richly de­serves perpetuation. 
The University's fiscal year of 1936-37 seems most logical as Exhibit "A." 
Endowment Income 

First of all, and very significant in a presentation of needs, is the fact that only 2% of the University's in­come is derived from its permanent endowment. 
So that 98% of the annual income is derived from sources that are sub­ject to considerable fluctuation — en­rollment, athletics, and miscellaneous sources such as gifts and bequests. 
This situation does not make for stability of personnel, or those extra­curricular projects of research and broad academic significance which are the marks of the great univer­sities. 
StudenU Pay 64% 

Alumni, and present students, who have attributed the rapid growth of the University to a more than ade­quate compensation from student fees, may be surprised to leam that the Notre Dame student pays only 64% of the amouint required to give him his education. In spite of its needs, and in spite of its growth with result­ing improvement in educational fa­cilities, the present student costs at Notre Dame compare most favorably with institutions offering comparable advantages. 
And, from the total income of the University from all sources, 8% is returned to the student in student aid, and 4% in scholarships and prizes. 
Nor does that 12% include 545,000 in NYA funds which were distributed among the Notre Dame students last year. 
Athletics Return 18% 

Very fortunately, in recent years, fortune has not only smiled on Notre Dame athletics, but has risen sub­statially from them. 
While maintaining a broad physi­cal program in keeping with general student welfare, and the best acad­emic traditions of American colleges, Notre Dame's spirit has caught the fancy of an American public which is willing to pay for its pleasure, so that the University's competitive, intercollegiate program has returned revenues equalling 18% of the annual income. 
We believe that, in the absence of an alumni body rich in material re­sources, Notre Dame men should lean backward to facilitate conditions which, in exchange for a sound pro­gram of athletics for all, have en­abled the University to enjoy low stu­dent fees and a continuing program of intellectual and physical progress not othenvise possible. 
Miscellaneous Income Totals 16% 
Income from miscellaneous sources, the bookstore, candy store and other campus facilities, interest on invest­ments other than permanent endow­ment, and gifts and bequests, totalled 16% of the annual income. 
We do not believe that public in­terest in Notre Dame athletics will fade. We subscribe to the theory that Notre Dame spirit produces winning teams, and not that winning teams produce Notre Dame spirit. But there is always the possibility that public interest in athletics generally may fluctuate under changes in economic and social conditions. 
Similarly, in another great source of income, student enrollment may respond to conditions beyond the Uni­versity's control. The last five have witnessed a 22% drop in student en­rollment from the peak figure. Hap­pily this has been largely restored to what is now arbitrary capacity, but the experience csnfirms the possi­bility of income recession from this source. 
And in the third source of income other than permanent endowment, namely the miscellaneous gifts and bequests, unless there is a continuous program and a constant effort on the part of alumni and friends to strengthen this supplementing of the University's resources, there is a hazard to the progress of the Univer­sity which the administration is bound to face with increasing qualms. 
Boarding, housing, laundry and in­firmary demand 45% of the annnal expenditures. 
Instructional costs require 21%. Administration and maintenance now total 16%. The athletics-for-all program, much of it non-revenue activity, uses up 12% of all expenditures. Scholarships and prizes exhaust 4% (the 8% student aid is included 
in these general expenditure percent­ages and is distributed among them). The libraries alone cost 2% of the 
total yearly outlay. And last year 16% of the annual income was made available for new buildings. 
Complexities Require Aid 

It is obvious, in considering the above figures, that Notre Dame is no longer a simple institution where un­paid teachers provide education; where a college-owned farm feeds the personnel; where the plans and labor of modest buildings come from the members of the Community; in short where the Notre Dame man in all walks can continue to capitalize on the vow of poverty of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, freely and whole­heartedly as this service was given. 
Logically, Notre Dame must and can look for aid to those men, alumni and present students, who in the past, as well as today, have been the bene­ficiaries of those contributions which have enabled Notre Dame to offer a thorough Catholic education at much less than actual cost. The Notre Dame student now receives his edu­cation at a cost from $100 to |500 less than at most of the institutions comparable to Notre Dame. 
There Are Two Channels 

In previous articles we have said, and we here repeat, alumni have two great ways open to return this con­crete evidence of their appreciation of the needs of Notre Dame. 
First is personal giving. We may also repeat again, to advantage, that the University, as well as the Asso­
(Continued on Page 146) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus March - April 
By JOHN J. LECHNER, '37 


CAMPUS NOTES » » 
EXPLANATION OF CONDUCT 
The 93rd commemoration of the day of Washington's birth, February 22 (according to Winchell February 11 was his natal day), at which the senior class presents an American flag to the University, was enacted with the solemnitj- due an occasion which has endured for four score and ten plus three. The Scholastic, how­ever, through the medium of one of its columnists, reported that after the exercises the Gentlemen of Walsh engaged the Gentlement of Sorin in an encounter, with snowballs as the weapons utilized. It is our theory that the urge which expressed itself in snowballing might well be traced to a previous frustration or disap­pointment in either the senior's pre­vious social life or scholastic life here at Notre Dame. 
PASSING OF A GENTLEMAN 
It was 11:30 p.m. The next day the new semester would begin. Sixty-six year-old Judge William Jlorley Cain, distinguished jurist and practicing at­torney for 34 years, and for the past eight years a professor of law at Notre Dame, wearily noted the grade for legal ethics examination paper he had been gi-ading in his class book. The Judge felt tired and spent, as he always did after hurdling each semes­ter's bugaboo of the professor, the correction of examination papei's. He prepared for bed and, with little or no tossing or tuming, went quietly to sleep. 
During the night Judge Cain left this %vorld, and Notre Dame had lost a distinguished educatoi-, and Notre Dame's law students a loj-al and trusted friend. Judge Cain's philos­ophy of life and his viewpoint on the application of Christian principles in the practice of law must have made his career a happy one. And in his teaching of the law the Judge was endowed with those chai-acteristics which command respect and admira­tion, ^rith the consequence that he succeeded in his goal, namely, that of impressing upon his students his philosophy and his principles. 
A recital of his career and accom­plishments might well be made but they will soon be forgotten—it will be through those students whom he inculcated with his code of ethics that he will live and be remembered. 
EXPANSION We noted in one of the Metropol­itan gazettes that students at Michi­gan employed in local malt-milkeries have formed themselves into a fed-
ei-ation to promote the use of the name "Fountaineers" in describing themselves, rathe r than "Soda­jerkers." Here at Noti'e Dame in the "Huddle" (you old-timers knew it as the candy store) the "Fountaineers" have formed a chapter ^\•ith Hank Theis, Newburgh, Indiana, as presi­dent. The Soda pardon us — the Fountaineers—are very natty at the Huddle, with blue coats piped with white, as uniforms. 
THE MONTH IN BRIEF Forty"hours devotion preface d Lenten devotion on the campus . . . Semi-weekly talks during Lent are to be delivered by Father Edward Misch . . . .-Vfter many lines of type concerning student dramatic activity we are happy to report that the newly-formed Dramatic Club, under the sponsorship of speech professor Thomas E, Mills, presented three one-act plays in Washington Hall . . . They wave "Refund," a comedy, "Dark of the Dawn," a melodrama whose action takes place during the last 10 years of the Thirty-Years War, and "Moonshine," an opus deal­ing with a hill billy's attempt to evade a federal whiskey tax on liquor . . . Washington Hall first-nighters applauded the offerings lustily. 
WHITE TIES AND TAILS Judge John Peter McGoortj', of the Cook County Superior Court in Chi­cago, who has been engaged to, take the late Judge William Cain's class in practice court, taught each Fi-i­day evening from seven until nine o'clock, had his first session the even­ing of the Junior Prom . . . The judge must have been impressed with the sight of students attending a class in white tie and tails . . . The annual Bengal Bouts Boxing show is being readied for March IS by Scholastic Editor Gene Vaslett, BrookljTi, New York, and assistants . . . Tom Proc­tor, Elkhart, Indiana, and Robert Schmelzle, Freeport, Illinois, senior law students, engaged the Kent col­lege of law in a i-adio debate over a Chicago station . . . The question was "Resolved: That the United States should extend armed protection to foreign investments" . . . The boys had to fight hard for listeners, since they were spotted the same time on the air that's alloted to Charlie Mc­Carthy. 
MOPPING UP Up at Blanchester college Coach Bill CojTie's vai-sity debaters mopped up most of the opposition vcith the 
"A" team winning 11 out of 12 while the "B" team won seven out of 10 . . . They debated the question, "Re­solved : That the National Labor Rela­tions Board should be empowered to enforce arbiti-ation of all industrial disputes" .. . 17 colleges and univer­sities competed . . . The campus radio studio is expanding, having been gi-anted more time on the air by the South Bend stations WSBT-WFAM .. . A maximum of 20 programs are given each week . . . Walter Hagen, Jr., Detroit, Michigan, son of the noted golfer, has been appointed pro­gram director . . . One program con­ducted by Buchanan, Michigan's, Morrj- Frank, junior lawyer, has been well received .. . It is called "Music of the Nations" and the last time we heard the progi-am Morry was head­ing south towards Naples. . . , 
CLUB ACTIVITIES Unconscious humor in the Scholas­tic: "At their last meeting the St. Louis club decided to curtail their immediate activities until they have replenished a weak treasurj'. Be­cause of the enforced inactivity the members spent their time in review­ing past accomplishments" . . . The Little Philharmonic orchestra, George 
H. Shapiro conducting, presented a program in Washington Hall . . . The Jlonogi^am Absurdities are bein g whipped into shape for an early airing . . . Students are pi-aying steadil y for Father John Farley, C.S.C, beloved "King" of Sorin Hall. As this is written, he is reported im­proving at Mayo brothers after his leg amputation . . . But "Pop" is hav­ing a tough fight. Remember him in your prayers . . . The weather has been very balmly, also as this is writ­ten, helping out in our campaign to convince out-of-state students that Indiana should be known as the "Paradise State" .. . So far, not much progress. . . . 
THE IRISH SING The Glee Club presented a con­cert in South Bend under the spon­sorship of the Scottish Rite Masons . . . Luis Montero, a gi'aduate of the College of the Sacred Heart, Santi­ago, Chile, spent three days as a guest on. the campus . . . Mr, Montero was awarded a trip to the United States as a first prize in an essay contest . . . He is a nephew of Juan Esteban Montero, fonner president of Chile . . . James Gi-aham, Tulsa, Oklahoma, is the chairman of the third annual Knute Rockne memorial pro­gram to be held in Washington Hall (Continued on Page 146) 

March - April The Notre Dame Alumnus 
John T. McG overn Compliments Notre Dame 
Finds On Campus Exceptional Achievements of 
Administration and Faculty; Defends Alumni 
Aid to Athletes of High Scholastic Ability. 
(An Address at the Football Banquet on January II, 1938.) 
I am most happy to be able to address the Notre Dame alumni upon the magnificent achievements of Fa­ther O'Hara and his faculty. The progress he is making in the organi­zation and extension of your aero­nautical course, of your institute of bacteriological research, and in the composition of your higher mathe­matics faculty demands the highest respect and compliment. 
I am also impressed by the success being achieved by so many of your alumni, particularly in literary fields: as editors, authors, publishers, and journalists. 
While you are enjoying your foot­ball success, it is a most reassuring fact that many of your younger foot­ball player alumni are going into the literary field or are continuing in fields of research to improve material human comforts, and to aid other universities, for example, Johns Hop­kins, to eliminate infectious diseases. 
And that thought leads me to make some observations upon the relations between your alunmi and the boys who are about to enter college. 
Purpose of a University 

The only justified purpose of a university is to turn out into the world graduates consisting of higher than average types of men, talented, trained, and inspired to perform ser­^'ices which will improve the general health, happiness, and usefulness of human beings. To secure that result, alumni must see to it that there is supplied a steady stream of appli­cants of higher than average scholas­tic types of boys, many of whom al­ready have hitched their wagons to the stars. 
The alumni of Notre Dame are ap­parently doing this. The public achievements of their graduates in­dicate it; the high scholastic stand­ing of their football squad is impres­sive testimony. An average of 83 per cent plus for the whole squad, with Ail-American stars grading over 90 per cent for three years straight, is one of the most comforting signs that I have seen in recent years. 
Alumni should now be still more careful what boys are helped so they do not break down this record. An only passable or low average scholar should not be helped, athlete or no. It is damaging both to him and the University to admit him, in all but a few exceptional cases where individ­ual quirks may disclose a boy of the specialty type who is dull in one branch but shows evidence of genius in others. 
High Percentage Scholars 

But where an alumnus finds in a boy an exceptionally high percentage scholar, ambitious for a career of high ser\-ice, who has a well defined purpose, and a wish originating in him to go to Notre Dame because it can best give him the instruction he needs, that needy boy can be helped by an alumnus, provided the nature and source of the help is fully dis­closed for faculty inspection. It makes no difference whether or not such a boy is an athlete. 
On the other hand, no alumnus of Notre Dame who has the best inter­ests of his Alma Jlater in view, will approach an athletic youth low in scholarship, or who •nishes to enter some other university, or exercise any influence on that boy to wean him away from the other University "Jlater" he has himself chosen. Boys constitute too much of the hope and faith of the future to be bid for, bar­gained, and sold on the basis of their athletic assets. 
I am glad to see that the records show that the Notre Dame alumni and faculty so rigorously prune do\vn the prospective applicants for en­trance, so that those who are finally received are those who have them­selves sought for the opportunity, and whose conspicuous high scholar­ship and definite aspirations indicate their worthiness. 
While I believe in football as a rec­reation and, when properly super­vised, as a worthy symbol of the spirit of the universitj-, my mind al­ways works back to the conclusion that here in Notre Dame, and in other educational communities, it is the intellectual and spiritual emo­tion which founded, and the integrity and intelligence of the faculty who carry on the purposes of the univer­sity, which compel our permanent ad­miration. The deeds of Ghengis Khan, Alexander, and Caesar are not today recalled so definitely as are the teachings of Moses, of Confucius, or of Christ. All the thrilling exploits of Notre Dame Four Horsemen may justifiedly remain object of praise and marvel, and the quiet, capable and most attractive personality of Elmer Layden may long be the topic of admiring observations. But as in the theatre "The Play's the Thing," in the university the teacher is the seed. The undergraduate is only the thallophyte; the well taught alumnus is the fruit and the grain. 
Artists and composers of music and verse have always understood the fact that a great teacher of youth represents the topmost flight of hu­man endeavor. 
While I was writing this assertion I had a visual illustration before my eyes, for I sat at a desk where, when I lifted my eyes from time to time, I gazed at a replica in bronze of the Hermes of Praxiteles. 1 remembered that the original, now safely housed in the Museum at Athens, is the only existing authentic example of the work of the great Periclean masters. I knew-, aisa, that the solitary little masterpiece is considered by all judges of beauty in art to be the nearest approach to the miraculous in conception of human beauty and in the rendition of that emotion into material form. 
Protection of Youth 

Why, said I, did this subject arouse in this master the very highest pitch of artistic and emotional exaltation? Then, I noticed the maimed frag­ments and scars of the other figure of the infant Dionysus which had originally been placed upon the shoul­der of Hermes. 
Now the legend came back to me from my school day memories. Her­mes had carried away on his shoulder the infant Dionysus to protect the child from the jealous -ivrath of the spouse of Zeus. 
The miraculous touch of the sculp­tor Praxiteles came naturally from his emotions, for he was seeing exter­nally not only bronze and marble and face and figure, but also with the eyes of his soul he saw Hermes rep­resented the highest type of human effort:—the unselfish protection of youth. It was because that effort is 
)42 The Notre Dame Alumnus March - April 
the highest of all human ambitions that caused Praxiteles to make his Hermes surpass, in terms of critical valuation, the Venus of Milo, the Vic­tory of Samothrace, or the Apollo in the Vatican. 
Times change, but the underlying spirituality of good men is constant. Every good teacher today is another Hermes protecting other Dionysian youths from exploitation and from spiritual and intellectual destruction. 
The old Greek legend came to me 
•very vividly out here at Notre Dame, for your faculty is quietly and unos­tentatiously doing those things each day in the joint intellectual, spiritual, and physical development of your boys, which inspired the Athenian master to his glorious accomplish­ment. 
So long as Father O'Hara and his associates continue to mold and de­liver out into the human world these hundreds of young graduates, humble through the grace of prayer and con­secrated reflection, strong through the discipline and healthy shock of lusty physical games competition, and mentally equipped through sound teaching and study, Notre Dame will grow in fame and enduring service to mankind. 
Three things stand out in my mind as I conclude my address: the high public services now being rendered by Notre Dame graduates, the growth of strength and promise in your fac­ulty, and the extraordinary high grade of scholarship shoivn individu­ally and collectively by your present glorious football team. I have to bow to the achievements of Father O'Hara and of Coach Layden; and to the de­termination of the Notre Dame alum­ni to preserve the high scholastic traditions of their University, 
SPANISH RELIEF 
Relief for the stricken Cath­lics of Spain is a worthy cause, whatever our views on the Spanish conflict. To co-ordinate this relief and to secure its maximum benefits to those for whom it is solicited, America, through its editor. Father Francis Talbot, S.J., has organ­ized the American Spanish Re­lief Fund, 342 Madison Ave., New York, N. Y. The Fund is sanctioned by the Church in this country as a national and diocesan movement, and is reg­istered with the State Depart­ment, Washington. 
Your contributions can be sent directly to the Fund at the above address. 

1938-39 National Officers Nominated 
(Because of the shortness of time between receiving the data and going to press, the ALUMNUS herewith prints only the nominations as reported by the Nominating Committees. These Committees consisted of Raymond J. Scanlon, '09, New York City, chairman, William J. Granfield, '13, Springfield, Massachusetts, and Peter G. Dwyer, '10, Potsdam, New York; John P. O'Connell, '13, Chicago, chairman, Peter 
J. Meersman, '13, Moline, Illinois, and William P. Downing, '14, Decatur, Illinois. (Judge O'Connell also appointed, as advisory members of his committee, Norman C. Barry, '21, Chicago, and Leo B. Ward, '20, Los -Angeles.) The personnel of the nominees for the several offices is proof enough of the efficiency of the Committees.) 
HONOR-AJIY PRESIDENT Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, c.S.c, '03, Notre Dame, Indiana (Unanimous) 
PRESIDENT Terence B. Cosgrove, '06, Los Angeles, California -Ambrose A. O'Connell, '07, Washington, D. C. 
FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT Joseph B. McGljTin, '12, East St. Louis, Illinois William A. Walsh, '97, Yonkers, New York 
SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT John J. Kennedy, '09, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania James M. Phelan, '17, Seattle, Washington 
DIRECTOR (FOUR-YE-AR TERM) Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, Illinois Wendell T. Phillips, '12, Boston, Massachusetts 
N.B. The ALUMNUS for May 1, the next issue, will carry short biographical sketches of the above candidates, together with election procedure. 
CAMPUS CALENDAR 
March 15 to May 10 
March 
16 Lecture: "Wonders of Science," by Harry C. ^Vhite. 17 Irish Production. 
IS Bengal Bouts. 
19 Movie. Fencinsr: Washinston at St. Louts. Track: Butler Relays at Indianapolis. 
25 Concert: Studebaker Choral Qub. 26 Movie 28 Monday: Midscmcster report of deficient 
students. 29 Theatre Production. 
April 1 First Friday­2 Movie. 3 Cbncert: Notre Dame Band at Notre 
Dame. 4-11 Monday to Monday Preregistration for courses in the first semester of 1938­1939. 
9 Movie: "American League Baseball." 10 Palm Sunday: Glee Club at Notre Dame. 13 Wednesday: Easter vacation begins at 
noon. Technical Program: "Industrial Appli­
cation of X-rays," Engineering Bldg. 16 Baseball: Chica^ at Chicago. 18 Golf: Detroit at Detroit. 
Baseball: Ohio State at Columbus. 19 Baseball: Ohio State at Columbus. 20 Wednesday: Classes resumed at 8 a.m. 
22 Monogram Dance. 
Tennis: Northwestern at Notre Dame. Golf: Chicago at Chicago. 23 Movie. Track: Quadrangular Relays at Bloom­ington, Ind.—Notre Dame. Ohio State, Michigan and Indiana. 23 Golf: Ohio State at Notre Dame. Baseball: Iowa at Notre Dame. 26 Baseball: Iowa at Notre Dame. 29 Track: Pcnn or Drake Relays. 
30 Movie. Track: Penn or Drake Relays Baseball: Chicago at Notre Dame. Tennis: W. St. Teachers at Kalamazoo. Golf: Purdue at Notre Dame. 
May 
1 Tennis: Detroit at Notre Dame. 2 Golf: Wisconsin at Madison. Tennis: Chicago at Notre Dame. . 3 Baseball: Northwestern at Notre Dame. 4 Tennis: Kentucky at Notre Dame. 5 Baseball: Western State Teachers at No­tre Dame. Tennis: Michigan State at Notre Dame. 6 First Friday. Notre Dame Senior Ball. Golf: Northwestern at Notre Dame. 7 Movie. Baseball: Michigan State at Lansing. Tennis: Indiana at Notre Dame. Track: Ohio State at Notre Dame. 10 Baseball: Illinois at Notre Dame. 

March - April The Notre Dame Alumnus 143 
BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 
» » 

Director of Athletic Publicity 
ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame's fourteenth victory in as many starts against Detroit re­cently brought to a close Coach Keo­gan's fifteenth season as head man of the Fighting Irish basketball team. 
His 1937-38 record matched iden­tically with 20 victories in 23 starts, the mark set by the unofBcial na­tional collegiate champions of the previous season. Perhaps you might have expected more, with the entire 
JOHNNY Mom 

cast back from last season, but senior teams, as we've mentioned before, don't jell as fast as sophomore and junior teams. Considering how we lucked out on Wisconsin and North­western in early games, perhaps we should be satisfied with the record as it is. It leaves Notre Dame well up near the top in the national cage pic­ture. It ends more or less brilliantly a definite era in the Notre Dame pic­ture—as definite as the period around 1908 and 1909 when the Irish went a-touring all over the South and East to knock over some of the best teams of its day, or the "Victory Five" era before Keogan became head coach in 1924, or the Johnny Nyikos et al. period of 1925 to '28 inclusive when the Irish won 56 out of 62 starts, or the Ed (Moose) Krause period which was crowned in 1933-34 with Keo­gan's first 20-victory season—against only four defeats. 
Despite the presence and assistance of a fine all-around cast, the period just closed, in which the Irish won 62 games, lost eight, and tied one with Northwestern—remember?—the night the managers couldn't count to 20 by ones and twos, will be known as the Johnny Moir-Paul Nowak age of Notre Dame basketball. 
They have ended their Notre Dame careers, along with seven other sen­iors who formed the backbone of the teams of the past three seasons. Lefs look 'em over: 
Moir, Scotch-bom boy who never saw basketball played until he came to America at the age of eight, and never played the game seriously until he had finished high school, holds all Nobre Dame's individual scoring rec­ords. All were formerly held by Ed Krause. The single game mark is now 25, set against Pitt Moir's sophomore year. The single season record is 290 set last season. -Ajid the three-season record is 780. Had he not missed two games last year and one this year with injuries, he would have passed the 800-mark with his eyes shut. He set his single-season mark as a junior while leading the Irish to a national title. He had opened the season by cracking his right cheek­bone, and the injury slowed him down considei-ably. He has twice been named ail-American, and he's a cinch to make it this year. He was voted the best man in his position to appear in Madison Square Garden during the past season. And the New York writers who made the vote also watched Mi-. Hank Luisetti, the emi­nent Stanford operator. 
While Moir was crossing the ocean and traveling many miles by rail to wind up the scoring star just de­scribed, Paul Nowak came to school on a street car. Born and reared 
PAUL NOWAK 

in South Bend, he was one of hun­dreds of kids who lived for the day when they could play for Notre Dame. Of course, a lot of these Kds later went to Purdue, Indiana, North­western, Michigan and sundry other spots, but that's beside the point. Nowak stuck to Notre Dame, for which thanks to the fates. He has been the key man of the Irish offense and defense for three years, twice ail-American, thrice the best center of the year in the Garden, a cinch. 
CAPT. RAY MEYER 

like Moir,.to get ail-American rank­ing again, and the man to whom the team looked for leadership, for the ball, and for the wisecracks that would relieve the tension of the tightest situation. And while he was doing all these duties commendably, he still found time to rank second to Moir in scoring each year, and, of course, in the totals. His three-year total of 478 is not so far off Ed Krause's old mark of 547. 
Tommy Wukovits, like Nowak, is a South Bend boy. He was a sub as a sophomore, but a regular the i)ast two seasons. He was fourth in scor­ing as a junior with 95 points. He was third this year with 161, just a step or so behind Nowak. And while he was slashing through enemy de­fenses to get all these pointe, he wasn't forgetting the more important business of throttling opposing col­leagues with envious eye on Notre Dame's basket. 
Captain Ray Meyer, as plucky a leader as ever wore the blue and gold, will be missed more than the cold figures might indicate. He made the team as a junior, even though a knee injury as a sophomore slowed him down and kept him with the subs. You could glance up at almost any moment to see Ray sprawled on the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus March - April 
floor, tenaciously holding the ball in his outstretched iron grip, and shak­ing enemy players off his back like chips of wood. The day after his mother's death in his junior year, he was back in the game—at Ws moth­er's request—^leading the team that had named him captain. He broke two blood vessels in his foot that night, but he came back again to lead his team in later stages of the cam­paign. When at the outset of the current season he suffered a dislo­cated right elbow, he still led his team. He was on the bench most of the time of necessity, but his heart was on the floor, and his teammates knew it. He's been able to return to action recently, and he's i-aised many a lump in many a throat as he fought on ^^•ith the "Green wave" the shock troops, diving, driving, battling, always for Notre Dame. 
Regarding the Crowes 

Mike Ci'owe, sixth of the seven La­fayette, Indiana, Dutch-Irish boys to exercise for the honor and glory of alma mater, is through with his ca­reer, having brought the total of Crowe letters and sweaters since 1923 to 17. He has been an impor­tant part of the picture, particularly this year when Moir hit a bad slump. Mike was the smallest of the Crowes, but one of the most able. They might ask him where the other six dwarfs were and accuse him of do­ing roadwork in an upper berth, but he was mighty comforting to have around in the late stages of several games this past season. 
Tommy Jordan, of the Chicago basketball Jordans, is another senior we all hate to see leave. Fast, tricky, colorful, and a gi'eat "ti-ouble shoot­er" with his late-game long shots which won three major games, he is all his older brother Johnny, 1934­35 captain, might have hoped he'd be. 
Jim Carson and John O'Connor, fonvards from Indianapolis, and Ly­man Shields, center, make up the rest of the diploma contingent. They played but little—but they were out there ever}' day heckling the varsity in scrimmage, and keeping their more talented mates from going Hollywood on us. They, more so than some of the regulars, may be said to ha%'e the true amateur spirit—and this has nothing to do vnth subsidization— for they have played four years of basketball in private, simply because they love to play the game. 
Of the returning players, more a year from now. They include Eddie Sadowski, forward, and Earl Brown, Jr., guard, with the regulars; Rex Ellis and Mark Ertel, sophomore cen­ters; Gene Klier, sophomore guard; Lew Wagner, sophomore forward who showed a lot of promise toward the end of the season; Paul Du­charme, forward ; and Frank Gaglione, guard, both juniors — as are Brown and Sadowski. But don't let anybody tell you that the nine sweet boy graduates won't be missed. 
A glance at your file of your fav­orite magazine will show that in the February issue we took you through the first Butler game, by which time the Irish had won 12 games and lost two. We had accounted for the Illi­nois over-time victory and the Minne­sota victor}- over our boys. 
It is our unpleasant duty now to record the 4.5 to 43 defeat Mar­quette handed us at Milwaukee. We told you last month that of the nine games then to be played "Marquette at Milwaukee is the stiffest test re­maining." Perhaps we should just shove out the old chest another notch, take a bow or two, and let it go at that. 
Here's what happened, as we saw it. Marquette got 45 points, which is more by nine points than the Hill-toppers ever before scored on the Irish. It is more by four points than any other team scored on Notre Dame this year. Pittsburgh at Pitts­burgh was the onlj' other team to get more than 38, and the Panthei-s got 41. 
Defense Is Down 

All these figures imply that there was something lacking in the Irish defense that night. Keogan had beaten a sub-par Pittsburgh team twice by using a man-for-man de­fense all over the floor; that is, cov­ering the Panthers under their own basket and in their half as well as in Notre Dame territorj-. The first Pitt game worked out all right, Notre Dame winning, 51 to 41. The sec­ond one, at Notre Dame unfortunate­ly worked out even better, 51 to 17. So Keogan used this defense against Marquette at Milwaukee. 
-4fter puzzling a while, Marquette began to fast-break on the Irish. Be­ing as fast as Notre Dame and with the added advantage of knowing where they were going—^while the Irish defenders had to guess—^Hilltop stars got loose time and again for set-up shots. 
It is tme that Marquette's win­ning goal came after Paul Sokody had committed a double dribble, but the officiating was eminently fair. More fouls were called on Notre Dame than on Marquette, and strictly speaking the game was lost on free throws, but since the Irish were fre­quently a half step or a full step be­hind the Hilltoppers in the race for the basket, Notre Dame had to do a lot of over-the-shoulder guarding, di-awing fouls. 
The same men, Johnny Getchell and Ike Craig, worked the game at Notre Dame which the Irish, using their customai-y defense, won by a 39 to 28 count. So don't give the boys too much rap for that one at Milwaukee. I give them all the credit in the world for not trj'ing to make my pre­diction come tnie. 
-•Vnd now, with that out of the old system, we can get on to pleasanter things. St. Louis U. provided only a mild workout as the Irish rolled up a 50 to 25 victoiy. The Pitt return game was a breeze, 51 to 17, as we've said. The same goes for the return Butler game at Indianapolis, in which Wukovits led the scoring from his guard post with 14 points. The score was 45 to 22. 
Michigan State Victory 

Michigan State was welcomed back to the schedule after a four-year ab­sence with a 48 to 32 defeat. Then the boys went to New York to show off before the New York sports %\Titers. With the N.Y.U. Violets play­ing their best game of the year, the Irish made it look tough by speeding off to a 10-1 deficit. Moir, Nowak, and WukoWts got most of the points as soon as the plot to "feed" Sadow­ski, for the benefit of the Westfield, Massachusetts, visitors, was aband­oned, and the Irish won, 50 to 38. The next night, the Red Raiders of Colgate discovered, 49 to 38, that Red is no more pleasing than Violet to the Wearers of the Green — we mean you, Nowak, Moir, Wukorits, Brown, and Sadowski. 
Came the return game with Mar­quette, which was taken care of neat­ly and with dispatch by Moir and Nowak with 25 points betiveen them, and Wukovits and Sadowski with an­other seven. Wukovits was relieved at the half carrying extra weight of three fouls. Jordan filled in veiy nicely, helping to run a IG to 15 lead into a comfortable margin. That would have been nice to know at Mil­waukee. The band played "Auld Lang Sj-ne" after the game while Coach Keogan shook hands with his nine seniors, and the home season was over, Notre Dame having won 18 straight at home over a two-year period. It was a year ago last De­cember w he n Noi-thwestez-n last turned the trick, 39 to 18. 
Graduation losses, however, have made it easier to get home games next year, and they have also made it easier for visiting team to do some­thing about all these local victories— so don't expect too much. I'm now turning the team back to the coach for spring practice, but I'll take 'em over again next winter. 
Before going, we'd just like to mention that the Detroit team Notre Dame defeated, 45 to 31, was the 
March - April 
best in Titan history having won 16 out of 19 going into the final at Detroit. 
TRACK Balance and power characterize one of the greatest indoor dual meet track teams ever thrown together at Notre Dame. Comparatively light graduation losses left Coach John Nicholson with a good nucleus for 1938, and several sophomores have come through to plug the gaps. 
"Nick", whose ability and record have been i-ecognized by the Drake relay committee which recentl y named him referee of the 1938 meet, has seen his team win three dual meets and tie with Drake at Des Moines. 
An idea of the aforementioned balance and power is sho^vn in the fact that in only four meets at least one man in each event on the pro-gi-am has already won his monogram. Ten men have won letters. At this writing, it appears that no more than eight more will get them during the rest of the indoor season and the ap­proaching outdoor season. Thus, it can be seen that Irish strength is concentrated in a small group of men whom Nicholson has developed to their maximum efficiency. 
In four meets this year, the Irish have set one Notre Dame gymnasium record, one Drake fieldhouse mark, two Notre Dame all-time indoor rec­ords (tying another), and they have set or tied 12 meet records. 
The record follows: 
Notre Dame. 73; Marquette. 31. Notre D.imc, 80: Illinois, 24. Notre Dame, 55^ : Indiana. 29^. Notre Dame. 62; Drake, 52. 
JOHN FRANCIS 

Notre Dame has won 31 first places, opponents have taken only 13 firsts, and tivo ties for first have occurred. 
Included on the 1938 team are five men who have set or tied seven all-time Notre Dame records. 
Against Marquette, the Irish took The Notre Dame Alumnus 

nine firsts, tied for another, and gave up only two to the Hilltoppers. Bob Shurilla, Marquette sophomore, got both firsts in the hurdles. Dan Gibbs was high man with 13 points. He set a meet record of 13 feet in the pole vault, and an automatic meet mark. of 22 feet 7M inches in the broad jump, which had not been run before. Greg Rice lowered the mile mark to 4:24.3, while Steve Szumachowski set a two-mile record of 9:39.7 for the meet. Biggest surprise was the performance of Ted Leonas, Chicago sophomore, against Eddie Burke, world record holder for the indoor high jump. Leonas tied Burke in the former's first intercollegiate meet, going 6 feet 3 inches, and taking fewer tries than Burke to reach that height. 
The fact that Illinois and Notre Dame have met every year since 1916 indoors — and that the meet records have been set by the cream of both teams over a period of 22 years—meant nothing to Bill Clifford, senior sprinter, and to Gibbs. The 
PETE SHEEHAN 

former tied the meet and Notre Dame indoor mark of 6.2 seconds in the 60­yard dash, and the latter turned in the best performance of his career to win the pole vault at 13 feet 8% inches. It was an all-time Notre Dame indoor, gymnasium, and meet record. It is 2% inches better than the former meet record and the Notre Dame all-time outdoor mark. We again voice Nick's prediction that Gibbs will clear 14 feet this year, barring injuries. The Irish took first in 9 of the 12 events, slamming five of them to give Illinois the worst de­feat it has evei- suffered at the hands of a Notre Dame team. John Fran­cis, senior middle distance star, in­cidentally, was only one-tenth of a second over his own meet record of 
1:57.5 in winning the 880-yard run. Gibbs turned in the best broad jump of his career, after setting the pole vault mark and taking third in the low hurdles. He hurtled 23 feet 4 inches, only 3V- inches off the meet record and the same distance from George Meagher's all-time Notre Dame indoor record. 
Considerable apprehension filled the Notre Dame camp before the In­diana meet. The Hoosiers had opened their season with a 5-point victory over Ohio State. The Irish appeared strong, but doping the meet, all Nick could see was either a 10 point vic­tory or a close defeat. He said that 
BILL CUFFOBD 

if the Irish were hot, they'd mn off and leave Indiana in the lurch, but this was not likely. Fair pre-meet estimates gave it to the Hoosiers by a margin of from four to 10 points. It looked like Notre Dame's field event men versus Indiana's great runners. 
The field event men came through, taking 26V2 out oi a possible 27 points. Bill Faymonville led the shot putters to a slam, and Gibbs and Harold Langton shared first in the pole vault at the meet record height of 13 feet. John Dean, Milwaukee sophomore who took third in the vault, surprised even Nicholson by tying with Leonas for first in the high jump, while O'Reilly tied with Tuthill of Indiana for third. But strength in the field events, as we've said, was expected. 
Pete Sheehan, senior 440 - yard dash star, put the Irish within strik­ing distance by running the fastest quarter mile of his career, indoor or outdoor, in 50.9 seconds to beat Sam Miller of Indiana. Needing only six points to clinch the meet coming into the 70-yard high hurdles, which were rated a toss-up. Captain Bill Mahoney tied the meet record of 9 seconds flat to win, and Bob Lawrence, sophomore Indian from Oklahoma, was right on his heels for second, to give Notre Dame the winning eight points. 
The day's biggest upset, however, was yet to come. Johnny Francis had not come within three seconds of Mel Trutt's best time in the 880-yard run. On the first lap, Francis real­ized he had broken a shoe lace. "What shall I do?" he demanded of Trainer Eugene (Scrapiron) Young. "Kun like the devil," shouted Young. And Francis followed instructions.. He kept the lead, fighting off a cour­ageoTis challenge by Trutt on the gun 
The Notre Dame Alumnus March- April 
lap, then sprinting ahead to win in 1 minute 55.4 seconds. This not only broke the meet record by some seven seconds, but it shaved a full second off the former all-time Notre Dame indoor record of 1:56.4 set by Ale-x Wilson in 1931. 
Tommy Deckard led Indiana to a slam in the mile run, setting a field house and meet record of 4:12.8. He also won the two-mile in 9:27.8, an­other meet mark. Miller got his re­venge on Sheehan in the relay, over­taking him on the anchor leg to win by a foot in 3:27.4, another meet record. As a matter of fact, both teams were disqualified in the relay for passing the baton outside the specified zones, but since Indiana won the event and Notre Dame was disqualified first, newspapermen de­cided to allow the five points for the Hoosiers to stand, when they were unable to find the meet referee to get official confirmation of the dis­qualification. 
That Drake Meet 

We almost forgot to mention the fact that Bill Clifford led the Irish to victory in the 60-yard dash in the fast time of 6.3 seconds, his second of four straight victories in the dash. 
Came the Drake meet. A first im­pression might be that the Irish couldn't stand the success of their victory over Indiana. Admittedly there was a letdown after that meet, despite Nick's warnings of Drake's balance, power, and home track ad­vantage. Three Irish pole vaulters, all having done at least 13 feet in competition this year, saw Chick Eivins of Drake tie with Gibbs at 12 feet 6 inches, for example. 
Dillon of Drake nosed out Ed Beinor of Notre Dame for second in the shot put behind Faymonville's winning toss of 46 feet 11% inches. White of Drake tied the field house record of 6.5 seconds for the 50-yard highs, Mahoney taking second. 
When it came to the lows, a flip of the coin gave Drake the right to run three men to Notre Dame's two. The hurdles were placed 10 yards apart instead of the 15 to which Notre Dame's timber toppers are ac­customed. Drake took all three places. Had Notre Dame been able, on the toss, to nm a third man, he would have automatically taken a place, which was all the Irish needed for a victoi-y instead of a tie. 
Clifford won the 50-yard dash in 

5.5 seconds, an automatic meet rec­ord, since the event hadn't been run at this distance before. 
Rice came through with a new Drake field-house record of 4:23.2 and took the two-mile in 9:40.3. Francis was second in the mile, to give the Irish much-needed points. 
But the half-mile was run 25 minutes later, instead of the usual hour, and Francis was unable to place. The time for the winner, Patterson of Drake, was 2:01.1. Allowing for the slowness of Drake's small track, this time is still much slower than Fran­cis' par. 
Drawing for Lanes 

In the quarter, instead of dra^ving ' for lanes by teams—so that the team winning the toss would get the first, third, and fifth lanes, with the others going to the other teams—the draw­ing was made by individuals, which is the Missouri Valley method. Drake got the first t^vo lanes with Sheehan in the third lane and the first turn only 25 yards distant. Sheehan got a good start, but when a Drake man tried to cut in in front of him, judges rules that Sheehan committed a foul. He took first and was disqualified, with Joe Halpin, sophomore who was second, taking first on the disqualifi­cation. Notre Dame got three points here instead of eight—just one more place where the meet could have been won instead of tied. 
Underwood of Drak e won the broad jump at 22 feet 9% inches, Gibbs taking second only an inch be­hind him. Leonas won the high jump for the Irish at 6 feet 2 inches, a new meet record, with Eivins of Drake in second, and Dean third. 
The concluding event, the mile re­lay, found Halpin out in front on the first lap, and the Irish held this ad­vantage until the anchor leg when Sheehan lost a two-yard advantage to Kohl of Drake. The time, 3:31.8 knocked half a second off the Bull­dog field house record. 
FENCING Prof. Pedro de Landero's fencing team will close another winning sea­son March 19 against Washington U. at Notre Dame. The Irish broke even in their first four starts, but they have been undefeated in four attempts since then for a record of six out of eight. They should make it seven out of nine for the season against the Bears. 
The record follows: 
Notre Dame, 12; Purdue, 15 Notre Dame, 12J4: Detroit, 4% Notre Dame. 9% : Chicago, 17 ^ Notre Dame, 9: Ohio State. 8 Notre Dame, 12; Lawrence Tech, 9 Notre Dame, 17: Purdue, 10. Notre Dame, 14%: Wisconsin, 12% Notre Dame, 12; Cincinnati, 5 

ADDITIONAL SPORTS RESULTS 
Hockey Notre Dame, 2 ; Illinois, 1 
Handball Chicago, 5 : Notre Dame, 1 Chicago, 7; Notre Dame. 1 
Bowling 
Syracuse, 2737: Notre Dame, 2388 
(Tdegraphic) 
Table Tennis 
Illinois, 24; Notre Dame 1 
CAMPUS NOTES 
(Continued from Page 140) 

in charge of the Kansas-Oklahoma club . . . Motion pictures of some of Rockne's greatest teams in action will be shown, and efforts are being made to bring in an outside speaker for the affair . . . The physical edu­cation department has added boxing as an elective no-credit course to its curriculum . , . Professor Napoli­tano, '32, is in charge of the class. 
OUR GOOD-TURN BOYS 
Scout week disclosed the fact that several Notre Dame athletes are for­mer scouts . . . The local papers car­ried picture s featuring basketball stars, Johnny Moir and Paul Nowak, and Ed Beinor and Chuck Sweeney of the football squad . . . The School­men, student philosophy society, cele­brated the feast of St. Thomas Aqui­nas by sponsoring a disputation on "The Natural Law" . . . Eev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C, Eev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C, and Rev. Albert L. Schlitzer, C.S.C, are faculty advisers of the society. 
PRESIDENT'S PAGE 
(Continued from Page 139) 

ciation, recognizes the lack of sub­stantial financial resources among an alumni body largely young, largely affected adversely by recent economic conditions. But, through the principle of Living Endowment outlined in the February ALUMNUS, even our present alumni can supplement in a substan­tial and continuing way the lack of permanent endowment funds. 
Second is the passing on, through alumni, of information and stimulus to friends of Notre Dame who are not alumni, but who are in a position to contribute, annually, or by capital gift, or by bequest, to the high causes embodied in that, familiar phrase— the Greater Notre Dame, 
Here at Notre Dame is Catholic education, the bulwark of the Church which is the bulwark oT Christian civilization. 
Here is the glory of intellectual seeking and attaining. Here is youth. Here is love and honor and devo­tion to God and His Mother. Here is the Spirit of Notre Dame. Surely here is challenge, and sure­ly here is opportunity. 
PLACEMENT 

A nationally-known insurance com­pany is seeking the services of sev­eral successful college graduates, now employed at $200 a month or more, who are desirous of changing work. Applicants must be prepared to take aptitude tests. Further information from the Alumni Office upon request. 
March - April The Notre Dame Alumnus 147 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI 
R
EV. JOHN F. FAELEY, C.S.C, '01, is, as this is written, in St. Mary's hospital, Rochester, Minne­sota, fighting- hard to recover from an operation which took from him one of his legs in the Mayo Clinic. With him are the prayers and hopes 
FATHER JOHN FARLEY, C.S.C. 

and admiration of Notre Dame men everywhere. 
One of Notre Dame's most able and best known athletes at the turn of the century. Father Farley played foot­ball and baseball for four years, win­ning eight monograms, and was cap­tain of the football team in his final year. (There was no "freshman rule" then.) He won an additional mono­gram in track. 
Ordained to the priesthood in 1907, Father Farley has since then spent much of his time on the campus as a rector, in recent years as rector of Sorin Hall. His inspirational cheer­fulness, unceasing energies and warm friendliness have made him one of the University's most popular figures, among student body and faculty alike. An admiring campus is wait­ing to welcome him "home." 
T
HOMAS F. BYRNE, '28, Cleve­land, Ohio, is in the forefront among those many enthusiastic alum­ni who have made the annual week­end Retreats of the Notre Dame dub of Cleveland the model for other Notre Dame Retreats throughout the country. 
Tom was the leader of the Cleve­land club committee which promoted the first club Retreat in 1933 at the St. Stanislaus House of Retreats in 
THOMAS F . BYRNE 

Parma, a suburb. There were 15 in attendance that first year. The num­ber increased to 24 in 1934, to 33 in 1935, to 48 in 1936, and in 1937 the capacity of St. Stanislaus' was taxed with an attendance of 52—^with 24 unable to get accommodations. 
This year, under Tom's direction (and using his carefully planned promotional technique, which has proved increasingly effective) the club sponsored tivo Retreats, one starting on Friday, March 4, the other starting on Friday, March 11. The success of the past was repeated. 
Tom is active in many directions in local Catholic activity: he is a member of the St. Vincent de Paul Society; a division leader and a mem­ber of the special gifts committee in the annual Catholic Charities cam­paign; a member of the board of trustees of Merrick House and a member of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. 
He is otherwise active, civically, in the Community Fund, the Anti-Tuberculosis League, the Cleveland Welfare Feedration and the National Conference of Jews and Christians. 
This same Mr. Byrne works—hard and with remarkable success—^for the Ohio Bell Telephone Company. Start­ing as a student engineer in 1928, he was promoted steadily, reaching the position of sales manager in 1933. On March 1, 1937, the company as­signed him to a special position on market research and public relations, and he's still on this job. 
Tom was married in 1935 to Miss Catherine McGivem, St. Mary's, '33, and he is the father of Tom, Jr., who will be ready for Notre Dame, accord­ing to present plans, in September, 1955. 
JOHN L. HEINEMAN, '88, Con­^ nersville, Indiana, secretary of his class, will, with Rev. James A. 
JOHNL. HEINEMAN 

Bums, C.S.C, '88, United States pro­vincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, lead the golden anniversary reunion of the class on June 3, 4 and 
5. Father Bums is honorary presi­dent of the Alumni Association this year. 
Founder and proprietor of the Connersville Mirror Works, Mr. Heineman has, while attaining suc­cess in business, found the time for a devoted interest in Catholic activities in general and in Notre Dame in particular. In addition to being a life member of the Alumni Associa­tion, he is the donor of the Conners­ville Scholarships the income from which provides each year tuition for one or two deserving and capable Notre Dame students from the city of Connersville. 
Mr. Heineman's two sons are grad­uates of the University—William, '29, and George, '30—and his two daugh­ters attended St. Mary's at Notre Dame. One of the latter is now Sis­ter Maria Theresa, C.S.C, a St. Mary's professor. 
An ardent liking for literature and 

-history turned Mr. Heineman to his­torical research in his home neigh­borhood, with the result that he is the author of The Early Days of St. Gabriers and other works on the pi­oneer days of the White River Valley in Indiana. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus March - April 
» > »

ALUMNI CLUBS 
AKRON Frank E. Steel, ex. '25. 327 Wildwood Ave­nue, President; James E. Coulter, ex. '30, 573 West Exchange Street, Secretary. 
ARKANSAS Burt L. Roberts, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock, Ark., Secretary. 
BENGAL Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C, '02. Dacca, Bengal. India, President; Rev. J. J. Hennessey, C.S.C '02, Dacca, Bengal. India, Secretary. 
BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) Thomas Grimes. '3-!, 35 South Third Street. Niles, Michigan, President: Sheridan Cook, 
•32, c-o South Bend Tribune, 119 North Third Street, Niles, Jlichigan, Secretary. 

Professor Bill Downey addressed the club on "Present Conditions in Europe" at its meeting in the Powell Cafeteria on Tuesday, Febniari' 22, the final meeting until after Lent. Dr. Russell Hart and John Jauch were in charge of the meeting. 
BOSTON 
Fred C. Solari, '35, Center St.. Pembroke. Mass., President; John J. Hanlcy. '34, 400 Salem St., Mcdford, Mass.. Secretary: Paul McManus. '34. Fox t Hounds Qub, Boston. Mass., Secretary. 

BUFFALO George E. Doyle. Jr.. '30. Liberty Bank Bldg., President: Robert Measer, '34. Am­herst Bee Co.. Main & Rock Sts., 'Williams­
• viUe, N. Y., Secretary. 
The following new club officers were elected on February 28: Carlos Frank, president; William Cass, vice-president; Donald Love, treasurer; Ralph Else, secretaiy. 
Father Vincent Mooney, C.S.C, 'IG, director of the Youth Bureau of the National Catholic Welfare Con­ference, was the chief speaker at the first anniversay banquet ot the Cath­olic Youth Organization in Ckeek­towaga, near Buffalo, on Januai-y 25. Father Charles M. Over, an engineer­ing student at Notre Dame in 1921­22, is assistant pastor of Our Lady Help of Christians church, sponsor of the affair, as well as diocesan direc­tor of the C.Y.O. John G. Byrne, '23, governor of District 8 of the Alumni Association, was the toast­master for the banquet. 
CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind-IU.) Frank J. Galvin. '23. First Trust Bldg.. Hammond. President: Fred J. Solman. Jr., '28, 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond. Secretary. 
CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) Edward J. Eckert, '33. 5 Lawnridge Ave., Albany, President; H. V. Canavan, '28, 254 Patridge St., Albany, Secretary. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN Dr. E. J. Hermes, '16. 1910 Oakland St., Lansing, President; J. Harvey Gautbicr, '30. Bark River, Mich., Secretary. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY Anthony V. Cores. •28. Perth Amboy Kafl. Bank Bld^r.. Perth Amboy, President; John Ltsicki. 'SI, 215 "Water Street, Perth Amboy, Secretary. 
CENTRAL OHIO Raymond J. Eichcniaub, '15, Hosier Realty Bldg., Columbus, President. 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA William J. McAleer, '31, 1518 19th Avenue, Altoona. Pa., President: Edward F. Lcc. 
•31. 210 13th Street, Altoona, Pa., Secre­tary. 

CHICAGO 
Francis T. JlcCurrie. '27, 8219 S. Sangamon 
St., President; Edwin Leo Ryan, '27. 6414 
Waj-no, Secretary. 

The following new officers of the club were elected at the highly suc­cessful dinner-meeting engineered by Tighe Woods in the Kniekei-bocker Hotel on Februaiy 24: Judge John F, O'Connell, honorary president; Francis McCurrie, president; James 
T. Igoe, Jr., first vice - president; Thomas C. Donovan, secon d ^'ice­president; Edwin Leo Ryan, secre­tarj'; William J. Drennan, treasurer; Edward W. Gould, Tighe Woods, George Brautigam, new members of the board of governors. 
Outlining newer developments in the older Notre Dame, Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C, was the principal speaker. Joe Boland, assistant foot­ball coach, showed football films and discussed prospects for the coming football season. 
The 1937-1938 Board 
Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C, '88, Notre Dame. Ind Honorary President William E. Cotter, '13, New York City President Harrv F. Kelly, ' 17. Detroit, Michigan First Vice-President Charles A. Mooney, Jr., '26, Cleveland, Ohio Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame Secretary-Treasurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame Assistant Secretary James E. Deery, "10. Indianapolis, Ind Director to 1938 Don P. O'Keefe, '03, Detroit, Michigan Director to 1939 Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newaric, New Jersey Director to 1940 Francis H. McKeever, '03, Chicago, Illinois Director to 1941 Arthur J. Hughes, 'I I.Chicago, Illinois Director to 1938 (ex-officio) To be elected—Member of 1937 Class Director to 1938 
District Governors* and Lieutenant Governors 1937-38 
1.—^No. Indiana and Southwestern ^lichi^nm: 12.—Kentucky, So. Ind.. Tenn.: JAMES A. 
A. GORDON TAYLOR. '18, LaPorte, Indi­McKEE. '93. Versailles. Ky.; MARION HEF­ana; JOSEPH F. DONAHUE, 'll. South FERNAN, '28, Louisville. Bend, Indiana. 
13.—La., Miss., and Ark.: WILLIAM H. 
2.—ChicaEo: JOHN H. MONTAGUE, '23, MILLER. '30. Vickshurg, Miss.; CHARLES Chicago, Illinois; EDWARD W. GOULD, '23, DE LA VERGSB. "25, New Orleans. 

Chicago, Illinois. 
3.—Ohio. "W. Pennsylvania and West Va.: 14.—Te-tas: M. E. WALTER, '14, Houston, OTIS S. WINCHESTER. '29. Qeveland. Ohio; Tctas: CLYDE E. BROUSSARD, '13, Beau­EDWARD C. BYRNES, '25, PittsburBh. Pa. mont. Texas. 
4.—Minnesota. Wisconsin, Northern Mich.: 
15.—Kan.. Mo.. Okla., So. 111.: DANIEL F. 

HAROLD WATSON. '25, Minwaukec, Wis.: 
FOLEY, '23, Ft. Leavenworth, Kan.; N. F. 
JOHN YELLAND, '30. Minneapolis, Minn. 
SCHWARTZ, '33. Salina, Kan. 
5.—Michigan (e.xcept the U.P. and S.W.) : JOSEPH J. NORTON. '24. Detroit. Michigan; 16.—No. 111.. loiva. Nebraska: J. HENBY 
HON. JOSEPH SANFORD, '21, Muskegon, PANNAN. '24. Rockford. III.; ELSIER J. Mich. MOHAN, '17, Streator, HI. 
6.—New Jersey, Delaware, Md.. East Pa., 17.—Mont.. Wyo.. No. and So. Dak.: LEO 
D.a: JAMES D. HAYES, '17, WashinEton. F. CRAIG. '04. Sioux Falls. S. Dak.; ROB­
D.C;
 ROBERT PHELAN, '22, East Orange, ERT CUMMINS. '26. Mandan, N. Dak. 

N.
 J. 18.—Utah and Colorado: RAYMOND M. 


7.—New Yorlt City: HENRY R. FHEY, '30: HUMPHREYS. '17, Denver, Colo.; ROBERT LEO V. MCL.\UGHLIN, '32. A. DICK. '29, Denver. 
8.—New York, (except New York City) : 19.—So. Calif.. N. Mex.. Ariz.. W. Texas: 
JOHN G. BYRNE. '23. Buffalo, New York: ANTON R. HEBENSTREIT. '11. Albuauer-THOMAS V. BOLLARD.'21. Troy, New York. ilue. N. Me-x.: TERENCE B. COSGROVE. '06, Los Angeles. 9.—New England: WALTER J. STAPLE­TON. '24, Bridgeport. Conn.; ROBERT W. 20.—No. Cal and Nevada: ROYAL BOSS­POWERS, '29, Providence. R. I. HARD. '17. San Francisco. Calif.; BERNARD 
J. ABEOTT. '27. San Francisco. 
10.—^Virginia. No. and So. Carolinas: THOMAS A. DAFFRON. '30, Richmond, Va.; 21.—Wash.. Ore., and Idaho: NATT Mo-REV. THOSIAS JIACKIN, 'IS, Spartans-DOUGAL. '00. Portland. Ore.: EMMETT 
burg, S. C. LENIHAN, '17, Seattle, Wash. 
II.—Alabama. Georgia and Florida: JO­22.—Foreign: C. C. MTZGERALD. '94, SEPH E. FTTZPATRICK. '25. Miami, Fla.: Havana. Cuba: ANTONIO EOXAS, 'JJ, CHARLES POWERS. '31, Savannah, Ga. Manila. P. L 
• The governor is the first name in each case. 
March - April 
President McCurrie planned a St. Patrick's Day luncheon in the Mor­rison Hotel on March 17 as the first headline event of his administration. This will be followed on April 3 by a Club Communion in St. Mary's Church at 9:00 o'clock, after which breakfast will be served. A large observance of Univei'sal Notre Dame Night on April 25 is in preparation. 
The new president plans to have his committee meet the fii-st Wednes­day of each month in the Knicker­bocker Hotel to discuss and aiTange future club events. 
CINCINNATI 
.Tohn ir. Heilkcr. '30. 3111 Stettinnis Ave. President: Clarence Brink, '31, 1306 Cryer Ave., Hyde Park, Secretxiry. 
CLEVELAND 
George Kerver. '20. 13S1 Grander. Likewood. Ohio. President; Cornelius J. Ruffins. '32, 308 Euclid Bids.. Secretiiry. 
Aye, and this time there IS news! Just when thes e winter months seemed to be congealed in the chill gray gi-avj' of uneventfulness, along came N.D. night at the Arena. Prov­ing himself no obscure "Throttle­bottom," Vice-President Jack-Collins, sensed the tempo of skate conscious Cleveland, secured the Arena, town's new and lavish rink, and staged one of the best parties ever under N.D. auspices here. Conceived to attract by novelty, planned to revive interest in club acti\-ities by its informality and popular price, produced to afford maximum entertainment of a new and grand sort, the Skate Dance ful­filled all hopes. It was a merry eve­ning! With nearly 400 skaters cir­cling the rink to the throaty beats of the giant Hammond, there was bound to be fun. For the lesser brave, there was dancing in the Pilsner Collar adjoining. 
Feature of the evening was the broom-ball game between the East and the West side alumni. Riotous! On the ice for East were Larry Krai, Ed Caldwell, Jim Dubbs, Jr., George Kozack, Chuck Rohr, John Begley and Don Miller; there for West were 
Joey Gavin, Bill Van Rooy, Frank Belting, Jim Uprichard, Doc O'Brien, Dutch O'Day, Mike Crawford, John­ny Butler, and Chuck Mooney. It 
may well be that Jack McGrath from his vantage point on the ice as ref­eree could estimate what small per­centage of players were on their feet at any one time. 
Startling news to insurance actu­aries is the happy fact that injuries were confined to minor cuts and a vei'itable duck egg aback Don Miller's head. Alas for the weary eastside winners, sole prize of the evening, a basket of Van Rooy Products, went to Marty Rini and the lucky number. Even from this cursory reriew you must suspect why that Skate Dance at the arena has been entered on the minutes as thoroughly successful. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
FIRST NOTICE In able hands rests the program for Universal Notre Dame Night. Chuck Mooney promises a round eve­ning, -4.pril 25, of which you'll all have due course notice, but DO look now for that appointment calendar and reserve the date. LOSS 
Olie Winchester has left town and just because Toledo, or more particu­larly the Blade Printing Company there, offered friend Otie manage­ment of sales. Deserter Winchester leaves a definite gap in the club roles: who is to keep the secretary informed of engagements, marriages, births and the latest prices at the State Stores? 
IN MEMORIAM 
The annual Rockne JIass and 
Breakfast is in charge of Joe Butler 
for arrangements; decided upon are 
St. Paul's Shrine, for the Mass; Uni­
versity Club, the breakfast; March 
27, the date; not decided upon are 
speakers. 
Capacity attendance at the two Retreat sessions were assured two weeks in advance according to co-ch airmen Jerry Reidy and Tom Byrne. At that time, 62 men had already made reservations for March 4, while 50 more had selected March 
11. Of that more later! 
Two committees are in active charge of the Retreats this year. One, the executive committee, is composed of F. Joseph Butler, Jr., Thomas F. Byrne, Frank X. Cull, John J, Dore, George Hahn, Clayton G. Leroux, Karl Martersteck, John A. Matousek, Dr. H. G. McCarty, Charles A. Mooney, Jerome G. Reidy and Albert 
A. Sommer. 
The other group is the general 
committee composed of John H. Beg­ley, Roger Brennan, Cleve Carey, Arthur J. Gallagher, Stanley J. Lech­owicz. Fierce J. O'Connor, Edward 
D. Raddatz, John J. Reidy, William 
R. Ryan, Cletus P. Schneider, H. Louis Stettler, Jr., Frank J. Svoboda, Jr., Matthew Trudelle, John Venables, John L, Weisend, Otis Winchester and Pat Canny. 
EASTER MONDAY 
May the mere mention of another party not offend the hallowed Lenten season, but on the broad back of Bill Van Rooy rests the burden of engi­neering to success the annual Easter dance. It would be tripe to mention the chromium qualities of the chair­man. Bill's already at work: place, date and committee ai-e alread y named. -Assisting promotion of the event, at GUILD HALL, APRIL 18, are: Pat Canny, Ed Carey, Frank Belting, Jon Beljon, Doc Gannon, Larry Krai, Mike Crawford, Clayt Leroux, Karl Martersteck, Doc Hei­man, Jerry and John Reidy, Lou Stettler and Dick Mahoney! Confi­dent of maximum attendance we've already made reservation for every name on the membership list, so those two or three fellows who can't possibly make the party, better can­cel reservations early. Note to the undecided: It's Guild Hall—not the Caz-ter! 
ODDS IN EJJDING Housed at Hotel Allerton is John 
T. Rourke, New York City, '29. Jim Callahan is finding Buffalo territory open for sales. laving the life of Canny while Canny was away, Mrs. • Pat Canny refused to miss an N.D. event but likewise refused to don skates at the Arena party last. The Feds have Treasurer Dutch O'Day on the pan for failure to file the club's income tax retui-n, according to GK. Starting -A.sh Wednesday both Chuck Rohr and Al Grisanti mounted but­termilk vats atop the bars lest Lenten abstainers take their prickly heated alimentaries to Marshall's for a coke! Aye, it's sack cloth and ashes 'til the next deadline! 
Nick Ruffing. 

CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
William A. Hurley, '28. 70 Montrose St., SprinKfield. Mass., President: Francis A. Aheam, *27, c^o Hartford Times, Hartford. Conn., Secretary. 
DALLAS 
James P. Swift. '24. 1202 Southwestern Life Bids., Dallas, President: Francis A. McCul­loUKh, '30, 317 First National Bank Bids.. Dallas, Secretary. 
DAYTON 
Eugene Mayl, '24, 400 Irving Ave., Presi­dent ; William Cronin, "29. 418 Crafton Ave. Secretary. 
Plans are in the making for the club's observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. One of the features will be a movie showing of a 1937 game. 
DENVER 
Rohert A. Dick. '29. 930 Marion Street, Telephone BIdg.. President: Harry Lawrence. '29, 1933 Broadway. Secretary. 
DETROIT 
Lincoln Wurzer, '35, 758 Atkinson. Presi­dent; Arthur D. Cronin, '37. 19160 Wood­ston Hoad. Secretary. 
The February meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit was held on Monday night, February 7, at the University Club. 
-•ifter tables were set up to take care of the surplus crowd, dinner was served. Bet%veen the main course and the dessert John Annas disposed of the regular prize, with the pro­ceeds from which we take care of our monthly mailing expenses. Follow­ing dessert President Wurzer called the meeting to order and asked Chairman Harry Kelly to announce the names of the Retreat committee. Harry urged that these men contact those members not attending the meeting and get them out for the Retreat at Manresa. Harry expressed the desire that the Retreat be made 
The Notre Dame Alumnus March - April 
an annual function. The club ap­proved of Harry's suggestion and decided upon the first week-end in Lent as the appropriate time to hold the Eetreat. 
There being no further business the president called upon the guest speakers, the first of whom was Herb MendeUon, owner of the noted speed boat "Notre Dame." In his talk Herb expressed his thanks to the Notre Dame club for the fine tribute to him on Herb Mendelson Night at the Book-Cadillac Hotel at which Father Hugh O'Donnell was the principal speaker. He also expressed the de­sire of being included in future club functions and that his nam e be placed on the mailing list. 
The next speaker was the former head football coach. Hunk Anderson. He gave a talk on his football experi­ences and announced that he is mak­ing his home in Detroit permanently and vnU divide his time between his office in the Fisher Building, Detroit, and his coaching assignments at the University of Cincinnati. Captain Joe Zwers was introduced next but we could not get Joe to give a speech. Later he did plenty of talking in ex­plaining one of the last year's games that was shown on the screen. 
Art Cronin. 

DBS MOINES 
Richard Hyde, "35. 678 26Ui Street, Secre­
tary. 
DUBUQUE 
G. L Kraiewski, '16. 321 Bank & Insarance Bid e President; Henry I. TrenWe, '24, 180 
S. Booth St., Secretary. 
EASTERN INDIANA 
Thomas A. Cannon, '33, 401 Wysor Bids., 
Huncie, Ind., President: Alvis E. Granser, 
ex. "31, 617 S. Jefferson St., Hartford City. 
Ind., Secretary. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Leo R. Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem. President: 
Ernest L. Wilhelm, '27, New Jersey Zinc 
Co,, Besearcb DcpL, Palmerton, Secretary. 
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA 
Charles J. Wittman, '31, 621 Schcnley Dr., 
President: William K. Bayer, '36. 724 W. 
10th St., Secretary. 
FLINT (Michigan) 
•Stephen J. Roth, '31. 723 Union Indostrial Bids., President: Donald F. MacDonald, '31, 1631 W. Court St., Secretary. 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 
Edward S. Sullivan, '24, 125 E. Snttenfield 
St.. President: Maurice J. DeWald. "33, 2416 
Huburtus, St., Secretary. 
GOGEBIC RANGE 
Francis 3. Vokovich, "35, Ridge St., Iron­
wood, Mich., .President: John C, Stillivan, 
'22, 10 Newport Heights, Ironwood, Mich., 

Secretary. 
On December 15 last, the Ameri­can Le^on Post, Michigan No. 5 of Ironwood, sponsored a banquet to 
•whichall high school and college ath­letes of the range, coaches and guests were invited. The principal speaker was Harry Stuhldrehe'r, athletic di­rector of Wisconsin University, who was introduced to the gathering by 
Victor Lemmer. The following day Harry met with Wisconsin alumni, 
N.D. men and range coaches at an informal dinner. During his stay, he gave talks before high school assem­blies at Hurley, Bessemer and Wake­field. 
John Wallack, monogram man, is assistant athletic coach at the Iron­wood high school and is enjoying a successful season. 
Bob O'Callaghan, last year's presi­dent, has recently been promoted to district manager of the Sinclair Re­fining company. 
Joseph Gill and Mrs. Gill are resid­ing at Hagerman Lake Camp at Iron River, Michigan, where Joe is direc­tor of the state Emergency Relief Transient Camp. 
Mark Mooney, ex. '26, stopped in Ironwood last fall while on a business tour through this district. He repre­sents an air conditioning company, and calls Indianapolis, Indiana, his home. 
Katherine Pendleton, St. Mary's, '25, is dean of women at the Iron­wood Junior College. She is one of our club's most active members, at­tending all meetings. 
Victor Lemmer, as you probably know, is county auditor of Gogebic County and also has a very success­ful insurance business in Ironwood. 
Frank Vukovich is the personal representative of Walter P. Chrysler and the Studebaker Corporation as is evidenced by the new Plymouth and Studebaker cars he is placing on the highways. 
John Sullivan. 

GRAND RAPIDS 
Earl Leach, '29, 641 E. Leonard St.. Presi­
dent: A. John Alt, ex. '34, 628 Turner Ave., 
Secretary. 
GREATER LOUISVILLE 
John Bannon. '32. 2011 Sherwood Ave.. 
Louisville. President; Kaymond Naber, '33, 
4X7 S. Western Parkway, Louisville. Secre­
tary. 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
A. E. Biebel. '31, 112 S. Washington St, Secretary. 
HAMILTON, OHIO 
M. O. Bums, '86. 338 S. Second St, Prasi­dent; Marc A. Fichrer, '27, 701 RentscUer BIdg., Secretary. 
HARRISBURG 
Joseph Farrell, '15, 32 North 27th Street. 
Camp Hill, Pa., President; Robert M. John­
ston, '33, City Chemist, Harrisburs. Pa., 
Secretary. 
HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.) 
Joseph A. Lauerman, '31, 1975 Riverside 
Ave.. Marinette. Wis., President; Francis C. 
Boyce, ex. "32, 1401 First Ave., S., Eica­
naha, Mich., Secretary. 
HOUSTON 
M. E. Walter. '14, 1702 Stuart Ave., Presi­dent: Raymond B. Keating, '35, 1810 Ster­ling Bldg.. Secretary. 
INDIAN AP(H.IS 
William H. Krieg. '29, 6858 Forest Lane, 
President; Francis Layden. '36, Indiana 
Bell Telephone Company. Secretary. 
Indianapolis was a highly favored community this past month. The basketball team played Butler and, although it was not too interesting a game, the fellows looked very good in all departments — shooting, pass­ing, defense and floor work. Coach Keogan and the squad deserve loads of credit. There were a lot of In­dianapolis rooters for Carson and O'Connor, both native sons. The squad was accompanied by the noted Petritz and Armstrong. 
Another highlight of the month was the two-night stand of Joe Bo-land and the football pictures from last fall. A capacity crowd at the 
K. of C.'s and Cathedral High School thoroughly enjoyed the entertain­ment. 
Joe Argus is reported to be rather ill with diphtheria. We hope Joe has a speedy recovery. The club is unanimous in wishing Father John Farley, CS.C, a speedy ride to good health and back to the campus. He is always remembered in our prayers. 
Plans for Notre Dame Night are getting under way. The annual meet­ing of the club to elect ofiicers for the coming year and to join with other alumni in celebrating the Uni­versal Night is always the most crowded of the meetings we have. We are planning a radio broadcast to tie in with the chain of broadcasts and arrangements are being made to hear the key speakers of the evening that will be featured on the radio. 
Mike Layden. 

JACKSON. MICHIGAN 
Walter Ducey, '17, 339 W. Morrell St.. Pres­
ident: Edward T. O'Neil, '26, Wildwood 
Apts., Secretary. 
JOLIET, ILLINOIS 
Thomas P. Fecly, '32, 316 Buell Ave., Presi­
dent: Lawrence J. Dunda, ex. *33, 704 
N. Raynor Ave., Secretary. 
The Notre Dame club of Joliet elected the following officers for the year 1938-1939 at its last monthly meeting held Tuesday, March 1: Thomas P. Feely, '32, president; Joseph V. Kirincich, '33, vice-presi­dent; Lawrence J. Dunda, ex. '33, secretary; Joseph L. Adler, '24, treas­urer. 
President Feely and his aides are planning an active and varied pro­gram of events guaranteed to main­tain the high standards set by the outgoing officers. Dr. Edward J. May­er, '27, president, Clarence W. Wil­helmi, '18, vice-president; Lawrence 
J. Dunda, secretary, and Joseph L. Adler, treasurer, to whom a rousing vote of thanks is due for their fine efforts during the past year. 
Much credit goes to the various house committees and party commit­tees and everyone in the club who helped in any way to put on our dif­ferent activities. Thanks are ten­dered to Joe Adier, Bob Baikerville, Robert E. Duffy, Clarence Wilhelmi, Tom Feely, Ed King, Joe Silk, Char­ley Lennon, Dr. Mayer, Harold Carey, Ward Loeffler, Jim Hyne, Donald F. Wise, Bill Bouingham, Joe Kirin­cich, Robert T. Fortune, and Francis 
A. Dunn. We want to thank every member for his cooperation and hope that we will continue to pull together and even improve in the future. 
Plans are now being formulated for th e observance of Universal Notre Dame Night on Monday, April 
25. A stag smoker ^vill bring the members together for a good, old-fashioned "XJ.N.D. pow-wow." The fellows cluster around the radio to listen to the usual nation-wide broad­cast on that night and to hear one of their own illustrious brethren over the local radio station tell just what makes Universal Notre Dame Night one of the banner events of the year. Needless to say, eats, refreshments and smokes are well-nigh indispen­sable features of the evening. Other features, now pending, may be added between now and April 25. 
William J. Bossingham, '25, has local Democratic support in the pri­maries for state representative in the Illinois general assembly from the 11th congressional district. Bill con­ducts a successful law practice in Joliet and Chicago and is well-known to both the people of this vicinity and to the Notre Dame alumni. 
A fine, large size, autographed pic­ture of the "Four Horsemen" now proudly embellishes the walls of our clubrooms along with the many other pictures of Notre Dame "gridiron greats," including "Kock," the pres­ent coaching staff, and several cam­pus scenes. The picture of the "Four Horsemen" is the gift of Francis A. Dunn, '37. 
A very enjoyable party was held January 22, with about 15 couples present. Music, dancing, refresh­ments and entertainment made the evening go by in a hurry and a real chicken supper was served later. Clarence Wilhelmi and Charles F. Lennon, '30, put on this affair. 
A "repeat performance" of this part y was held on Washington's birthday, February 22, with 47 pei:­sons in attendance. Everyone testi­fied that "a good time was had by all" at this successful gathering. Robert J. Baskerville, '31, and Larry Dunda were the promoters on this occasion. 
It is a little late and almost out of season to mention the annual and always successful Christmas party held for the children of club mem­bers, but the one held on the Wed­nesday afternoon before Christmas 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
was a repetition of those past merry occasions. There were about 17 children present with their mothers and altogether about 40 people pres­ent. Dr. Mayer, Ed King, Jim Hyne, Clarence Wilhelmi, Joe Silk and Larry Dunda were the "big kids" who were behind this party, which "had everything" that such a party should have. • 
Larry Dunda. 

KANSAS 
Albert J. Gebert. '30. U. of Wichita. Wich­
ita, Kansas, President: Dan Welchons, '30. 
623 Elm St, Ottawa, Kansas, Secretary. 
KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) 
Robert Tyler, '29, 3616 Paseo Blvd., Kansas City, Mo., President: Charles E. Meyer, '29, 420 E. Armour Blvd., Kansas City. Mo., Secretary. 
Alfred M. Landon was to be the chief speaker at the memorial service for Knute Rockne at Bazaar, Kansas, on March 4, according to an an­nouncement from Dr. D. M. Nigro, president of the Knute Rockne Club, sponsor of the event. A cavalcade was to form in Kansas City at 7:00 
A.M. on that day, following Mass in the Visitation Church and breakfast in the Park Lane Hotel. Upon reach­ing Strong City, Kansas, the members of the cavalcade were to attend Mass at 11:00 o'clock celebrated by Rev. E, J. Albers, local pastor. Luncheon was to be served in Ryan's Restau­rant, Strong City, afterwards. 
Former Governor Landon was to speak at the Rockne monument near Bazaar, the scene of Rock's death, in the early afternoon and place a 
•\vreath on the monument. 
LA PORTE, INDIANA 
Norman E. Duke. '34. 304 Niles St.. Presi­dent : Robert E. Quinn, ex. '36, 1401 Monroe St., Secretary. 
LOS ANGELES 
Douslas Daley, '30, 781 Ceres Ave., Presi­
dent: Thomas Ashe. '31, 7110 Middicton St., 
Huntinston Park, Calif., Secretary. 
The purpose of the dinner meeting at the Mona Lisa Restaurant on Mon­day, February 21, was threefold: 1) to remind the fellows of our annual Retreat at Sierra Madre, Passionist Monastery overlooking the Santa Anita race track, on March 18, 19 and 20; 2) to appoint a committee for Universal Notre Dame Night on April 25; 3) to arrange for the an­nual Rockne Memorial Mass on Sun­day, April 3. 
Two Passionist Fathers from Sierra Madre delivered gentle re­minders about the necessity of annual Retreats, and they were promptly fol­lowed by Tom McKeon, '90, and Frank J. Barry, '03, who signified their intention of joining the move­ment this year as usual. Tom was with the Notre Dame group last year and the previous year, and was al­ways first into the chapel and the dining hall. 
The recent meeting produced a number of new faces with a good sprinkling of the old faithful like' 
Gene Kennedy, '22, Eddi* Cnnning­ham, '28, Jim McCab*^ '22, Leo Ward, '20, Oscar Sideafaden. '20, Doctor Frank Brcslin, '13, Charlie Kennedy, '29, who accepts foil re­sponsibility for the success of the Retreat; Robert Dockweiler, '29, Ed Ashe. '25. 
There were more than 50 at the dinner, despite the fact that notices were mailed just a few days in ad­vance. This, however, cannot be blamed on the secretary, who means well but was not notified of the in­tention to hold a meeting until less than a week prior to the 21st. 
Jimmie Navarre, '29, stjll with Sears, Roebuck & Navarre, was much in evidence at the meeting, and he brought with him Bob Heintz, '26, and the brothers Tom Clarke and William Clarke, '27. The Clarkes are from Toledo, and Bill, who came here last July, is now a Califomia insur­ance merchant. 
Jimmie ©"Toole, '29, now with MGM, was on hand with Charlie Murpby, '28. Another of the alumni present, also connected with the cel­luloid citizenry, was Neil Ran, '31. Neil is doing publicity work with the Warner Brothers, uncovering new stars with a mere flick of the pencil. Leo Banes, '33, of EI Paso, Texas, attended his first meeting, and, if he succeeds in connecting with anything on the coast, he promises to make all of them—including the Retreat. 
Some one left the door open and in stepped "Judge" John Carherry, '31, who has been around these parts for some time, and is occasionally seen running in and out of studios. I did not get a chance to find out just what the "Judge" is doing, but his sartorial splendor betrayed the fact that it is something lucrative. 
Others who signed the guest book were: James Marr, '35, connected with a local bank; Charles Mclver, '18, manager of the Holljrwood branch of the Crane Company; P. J. Swanson, '23, a Beverly Hilltopper who has attended'all recent meetings; 
F. B. Hughes, '03, Oldsmobile dealer from downtown LOUISIANA, who promises to renew interest after a fairly long absence; Edward J. Peil, '02, who made the same pledge as Frank Hughes, and J. W. Mnllin. Jr.. '18. Harry Denny. '22, was also there, and with Larry Friel, '22, and others of the early twenties, was swapping yams with Frank "Kid Gal­ahad" Wallace, '23, after the formal session had adjourned. Rolan d Ganpel, '15, was at his first meeting, and Albert Krug, '02, had to call this his first in a long time. Doc Molony, '23, has retained his good record. From the late twenties and eariy thirties were: Charlie Gasa, '30, Jo* Hiss. '29, Tomm y MUterly. '33. (where has he been all the time?); 
Reggie Bittner, '29, who joins me in c 0 m p r i s i n g the Huntington Park brigade; Frank Cushing, '29, now residing in Long Beach, and Bob Snell, '27. New faces also included 
D. J. McHugh, '36, and John Mc-Ardle, '35. 
I did not mention Carroll O'Meara, '29, because he is to receive publicitj' in this paragraph as first assistant to Frank Barry in forming plans for our celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night. Carroll, foi-merly ^^'ith KHJ, is now connected with Young & Rubicam where he directs a night­ly serial which is released from San Diego to Seattle over the Mutual-Don Lee network. 
Frank Wallace was speaker of the evening, and he did a good job of it by reviiTng many ti-aditional yams about Notre Dame, its Rockne, and its football. Frank discussed modem collegiate football rather thoroughly, giving his opinion of N.D.'s status in the game as organized today. He was neither optimistic nor pessimistic about the outlook for next fall, but was high in his praise for Elmer Layden. 
John Paul Cullen, '22, now con­nected with the Veterans Administra­tion at Los Angeles, could not be present because of his failure to re­ceive a notice on time; however, he expressed his willingness to attend all future gatherings, and his regrets at being unable to be at the latest one. 
I trai-eled all the way through this letter without sajnng that the meet­ing was in charge of Doug Daley, '30, president of the local club. Sorrj' to omit Doug, who is an old hand at the toastmaster trade, but 1 guess everyone knows that one of our meetings is not complete without him. Doug is still with his father in the printing business. 
One of the Sien-a JIadre priests at the dinner was Father Dominic (Callaghan), and, though I believe he is from Notre Dame, I did not find out when he was there. The other priest was Father Angelo, annual director of the Retreat Movement. 
Bill Hawkes, '33, of New Jersey, is located with the Airci-aft Battle Force of the United States Fleet, with headquarters at San Diego. Bill has asked to be notified of future meetings; perhaps he can borrow the Admiral's plane and fly to the next one. 
When mentioning the name of 
Reggie Bittner I neglected to state 
that he lost his mother about three 
weeks ago, and as a representative of 
the club I wish to extend our sym­
pathy to Reggie on her death. 
Tom Ashe. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
p. E. Burke, '88. 307 Camp St. New Or­leans. La., President: Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr.. 
•2S, Whitney-Central Bide., New Orleans. La., Secretary. 
MANILA Alfonso Ponce Emile. '05. Manite. Presi­dent; Gonzalo K. Valdes, 'So, 709 San Mar­celino, Secretars'. 
MEMPHIS Galvin Hudson. '15, Parkview Hotel. Presi­dent: Bailey Walsh, ex. '27, Columbian Mu­tual Tower, Secretary. 
MIAMI, FLORIDA Vincent C. Giblin. 'IS, 4103 Collins Ave, Miami Beach, President: Daniel J. Lino, ex. 
•34. 1617 N. W. Ninth Ave., Miami. Secre­tary. 
MILWAUKEE John Clauder, '34, 1219 Vliet St., President; John Jaeser, '33, 1628 W. Wsconsin Ave., Milwaukee, Secretary. 
MONTANA Joseph V. Maronick, '32. Box 1792, Great Falls, President; Leonard D. Eegan, '33, Montana Power Co.. Great Falls, Secretary. 
NASHVILLE Kennedy Jones, '30, Jones Chemical Co., Secretary. 
NEW JERSEY Peter J. Quinn. ex. '33. 320 Belleville Ave., Bloomfield. President; Philip Heinle, '35, 76 Oakview Ave., Blaplewood, Secretary. As usual, we held our monthly meeting on the first Monday of the month, and the crowd in attendance was larger than we ever had at a February meeting. 
Jack Winberry told US that he had started to work on the plans for Uni­versal Notre Dame Night to be cele­brated on -A.pril 2a. He has asked the following to serve on his commit­tee: Bob Phelan, Bill Carter, Arch Duncan, Frank McDermott, Ed Dug­gan, Bert Daniels, Russ Reilly, Bob Huetz, Dick Purcell and Jack Blanda. 
Ray Geiger distributed ticket ap­plication blanks for the Notre Dame-
N.Y.U. basketball game. Ray Brod­erick came up from Philly to help Tom Flynn and me enjoy this game. 
Pete Quinn read a letter from Jim Armstrong concerning -Ajrmy game tickets, and this letter proved to be a bombshell, for immediately a very lively discussion on the method of ticket distribution started. Dr. Bucky O'Connor has been gathering data on this situation, but he was unable to attend the meeting. However, man}' good ideas evolved from our discus­sion, and I believe they will be for­warded to Jim Armstrong soon. 
Bill Carter announced his final plans for the pre-Lenten Dance held at the Canary Cottage, and Bill's hard work made it one of the most successful dances we have had. It was particularly gratifying to see so many fellows who haven't been to a dance or meeting in years in attend­ance. We had a professional "Big -A.pple" instructor lead us in that dance, and we'll never forget his most adept pupils — Frank Milbauer and Tom Farrell. Bill Fay, of Mem­
March - April 
phis, dropped in at the dance and dis­covered that he and Harvey Rockwell had been living next to each other at the Essex House for two weeks with­out being aware of each other's pres­ence. A few of the strange faces at the dance were Bill Walsh, Bus Grif­fin, Johnny Fisher, Frank McCann, 
and the Wingerier brothers. 
We are trying to find out why so few of the fellows from the classes of '3G and '37 come to the meetings and social affairs. It is to their own advantage to be present when we as­semble, as, for example, one member of last year's class received a job through coming to one meeting. 
Here are a few of those I can re­member seeing at the dance or meet­ing: Don Sullivan, Bill Moritz, Tom Treacy, Bob McDonough, Johnny Hopkins, Frank McDermott, Bill Smullen, Jack O'Keefe, Murra y Booth, Jack Neubauer, Sal Bontem­po, Ed Hargan, Andy O'Keefe, Jack White, Jack Driscoll, Hank Prender­gast, Joe Minarick. 
Phil J. Heinle. 
NEW YORK CITY 
Leo V. McLaushlin, '32, 70 Pine Street, 
New York City, President: Henry R. Frey, 
•30, 1226 Tinton St., N. Y. C, Secretary. 
FATHER WILLIAM A. BOL­GER, CS.C, '07, and FATHER JOSEPH E. HART, CS.C, '24, will give a two-weeks* mission in St. Malachy's Church, 49tb Street, between 7th and 8th Avenues, New York City, starting on March 27. 
On January 25, John Hinkel, Fran­cis Shapiro, Ed Neaher, James Mc-Devitt, William Walsh, members of our Study Club team, gave a demon­stration at the Centre Club. Mon­signor Lavelle and Monsignor Mcln­tyre presided. Priests, organizers, directors and leaders of religious study clubs throughout the New York City diocese were invited. Over 500 people attended, and the Notre Dame boys showed the guests just how to conduct a religious discussion group. The portrayal received high commen­dation from the clergymen present. 
The Discussion Club movement has taken hold throughout the city and Notre Dame men are coaching groups in parishes every week. 
On February 23, Bob Hamilton and Jack Lavelle addressed the club on the new iniles in basketball. Their talks were very instructive and had the reaction of a pep meeting for the Notre Dame - New York University basketball game held in Madison Square Garden February 25. 
The night of February 25, New York City was proud to be host to the Notre Dame basketball team. What a night! What a team! Over 

March - April The Notre Dame Alumnus 
17,000 people witnessed the game in Madison Square Garden. The speed, ease and grace with which Notre Dame overcame N.Y.TJ. was a spec­tacle to hehold! Paul Nowak is eas­ily the smoothest-working center to visit the Garden this season. Johnny Moir lived up to all the press notices received in advance. 
The New York Club an-anged for an announcement over the lou d speaker system of an infoi-mal gath­ering of all Notre Dame men and their friends at the Centre Club after the game. The response was splen­did! It was a pleasure to see Father Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., Elmer Lay-den, James Crowley, Mr. and Mrs. William Cotter, Mr. and Mrs. John Balfe, Mr. and Mrs. Ed Tighe, Bill Gillespie, Al Picks, Lou Wagner, Bill Murphy, Mr. and Mrs. Tom Lantry, Mr. and Mrs. Martin Callagy, Mr. and Mrs. George Winkler, the Walsh Hall team of Redgate and Murphy, Lou Thornton, Bill Corr, Dan Halpin, Jerry Parker, Al Howard, Joe Friel, John Hinkel, Victor Fischer, Ed Hoyt, Thomas Hughes, James 0*Donald, Joseph Loftus, Dick Donoghue, John Moran, Joseph Schmidt and a host of others. 
The Centre Club had a newly-pur­chased beautiful blue and gold Notre Dame banner flying outside the build­ing in honor of the team. Let us mention here that this Notre Dame flag will adom the front of the Cen­tre Club building one day each week, throughout the year. 
The next business meeting will be held March 21, at the Centre Club. The nominating committee will be elected to select next year's group of officers. 
An-angements are now being made for the Rockne Memorial Breakfast to be held March 27, 1938. This memorable occasion will be followed on April 25, 1938, by Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Resen-e the dates and watch for announcements concerning thes e events, as no Son of Notre Dame would knowingly not be present. 
Henry R. Frey-

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA Bernard J. Abrott, *27. Latham Square Bids., Oakland, President: Paul J. Cushinn. 
•31, 1221 Central Bank Bide., Oakland, Sec­retary, 

NORTHERN LOUISIANA 
Arthur J. Kane, '31, 307 Wilkinson, Shreve­
port. President; James R. Nowery, '29, 
P. O. Box 1515, Shrcveport, Secretary. 

The Rockne Memorial Retreat, planned for the week-end of March 4-6, had every prospect of being a distinct success, according to advance word from Keene Fitzpatrick, chair­man of the Retreat Committee for the club. The Retreat was to be held at El Retiro, the .Jesuit Retreat House at Los Altos, California. 
OKLAHOMA Joseph A. Moran, *32, 1611 S. Carson. Tulsa, President: Marion J. Blake. '33, National Bank of Tulsa Bids., Tulsa, Secretary. 
OREGON Charles J. Hirschbuhl, '22, 2130 N. York, Portland, President: Harold J. Harstick, 
•25, 633 N. E. Everett, Portland, Secretary. 

PARIS Louis P. Harl. '16, Paris Office, Kew York Ilcrald-Tribtmc, Paris, France, President. 
PEORIA Al Gury, Jr., '28, 530 W, Richwoods Blvd., President: John Sloan, '33, 233 N, Under-hill, Secretarj-. 
.4. dinner meeting was held by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Peoria, Februaiy 12, at the Endres Hotel. We were indeed fortunate in having as our principal speaker, Mr. R. B. Fitzsimmons, special agent in charge of the Federal Bureau of Investiga­tion for this district. In his talk to the club members he related how the aspiring young G-man undergoes a test, more difficult to pass than any ever encountered in his college ca­reer. His naiTation of the solution of several headline kidnapping cases, came, as we understand, from per­sonal participation. Chief of Police, Leo Kamins introduced the speaker of the evening. The success of the evening was aided by the diligent work of its chairman, Leiand Kramer, and Bob Rainey, who assisted him. Joseph Langton was appointed chair­man of the next meeting. 
No definite announcement as yet has been made for Universal Notre Dame Night, although we are expect­ing a vei-y successful evening under the chairmanship of John E. Cassidy, who is now working on the plans for the occasion. 
John Sloan, Jr. 

FROM THE EDITORIAL OFFICE: 
Clarence E. Manion, '22, professor of law and former president of the Alumni Association, will be the cam­pus speaker in Peoria on Universal Notre Dame Night, according to later word from Pat himself. With the ti-aditional Manion eloquence to build upon, the club would seem to have the success of its meeting assured far in advance. Pat's services for the Night are widely in demand; the club displayed admirable foresight in getting its bid to him first. 
PHILADELPHIA William E. Coonej-, '32, 5725 McMahon Ave., President: A. J. Wackerman, '35, 5356 Chew St,. Secretary. 
PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. J. Hilkert. '22. 402 Title & Trust Bids.. Phoeni-x, President. 

RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. Thomas Collins. '28, IGd New Boston Road. Fall River, Mass., President: John Mc-Laushlin, '34, Snecch Pond Road, Cumber­land Hill, R. L, Secretary. 
Last month some happy news was received by all the Notre Dame boys in this locality. It was the fact that a fellow alumnus of ours, as well as a classmate of Johnny McKieman, Vin McAloon, and myself, was ap­pointed head football coach of Provi­dence College, a Dominican institu­tion in the capital city of Rhode Is­land. Needless to say, we welcome Hughie Devore, '34, into our fair state, and we sincerely wish him abundant success. We do hope that Hughie's work at his new post will not keep him from showing up at our meetings, nor from making an occa­sional social visit to his friends. De­vore did not forget his Alma Mater upon his appointment for he has selected Nick Crotty. '36, of Dan­bury, Connecticut, to assist him in his coaching duties. 
In attending a testimonial banquet in honor of Devore, Father Robert Quinn, O.P., director of athletics at P.C, and Joe McGee, former coach, I met the foUovring at the table re­served for the Notre Dame club: 
Rev. Thomas Duffy, C.S.C., '20. Father Duify drove over from North Easton, Massachusetts, where he is superior of the eastern mission band of the Holy Cross Fathers. 
Charlie Grimes, '20. It would have been unusual were he missing at the event, and likewise if John McKier­nan, '34, young attorney had not been present. 
Adam WaUh, '25. As he was one of the guest speakers of the evening, we felt our stock rise to greater heights after he interested the 400 present with some of his experiences while studying within the "shadow of the golden dome." Adam is coaching at Bowdoin College in Maine and we hope that the proximity will bring him into "Little Rhody" more often. 
Leo McAloon, '30. Had a previous engagement, otherwise we know he would have been with us, as would Bob Powers, '28, Tom Collins, '28, Tom Murphy, '36, and other N.D. men in these parts. 
Our plans to date for U.N.D. Night are incomplete, but we expect to have an enjoyable evening arranged by the committee. 
Jim Bowdren, '36. Three weeks ago, Jim stopped off for a couple of hours. We had lunch together and a pleasant conversation. He ia doing mighty swell by himself with a Bos­ton firm. He informed me that his Boston Club is making preparations for a gala Notre Dame time on Uni­versal Night. 
While up in the "Bean City" two weeks ago, I had dinner at the Fox and Hounds Club, where I ran into Paul McManut, '34. He is assistant manager of the club. 
Johnny McLaughlin. 

ROCHESTER (New York) 
D. Bernard Hennessey. '34, 119 Bedford St , President: Gerard Farrell, '34, 447 Thurston Road, Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus March - April 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (IllinoU) 
Joseph Bittdorf. ex. "33, 105 16th St , Stcr­
line, m . PresWcnt; Edward Sollivan, ex. 
"33, Aroboy, III., Secretary. 

SAN ANTONIO 
William V. Diehnann. Jr.. '25, 107 Thehna 
Drive, President: Edward G. Conroy, 'SO. 
204 E. CraiB PI.. Seerclary. 

Just a few quick notes from the Texas front: 
Had a pleasant visit from Rev. Patrick Hagrgerty, C.S.C., shortly after he assumed his duties as presi­dent of St. Edward's University, Aus­tin, Texas. Along with him came Fathers Duffy and Culhane, of St. Edward's, and Fathe r James J. O'Brien, lieutenant colonel, U.S.A., pastor of St. Mary's Church, Austin. 
Rev. Paul Foifc, C.S.C., of St. Ed's, came over with Father Haggerty for the national Knights of Columbus convention, which was also attended by Ray Miller, of Cleveland, and Tiro Galvin, of Hammond, among others. 
Rev. Frederick Mann, C.SS.R., is a Redemptorist missionary here and an "expert" on San Antonio's six missions which are over 200 years old. 
Rev. Edward V. McCulIough, pas­tor at St. Joseph's Church, Cleburne, Texas, here recently, states that of his brothers, Felix, '24, is in Sher­man, Texas, and Frank, '29, is assist­ant state's counsel for the HOLC, in Dallas, Texas. 
George Burkitt, Jr., '02, Houston, Texas, accompanied by his sister. MIS. E . B . Crane, formerly of St Mary's College, Notre Dame, dropped in on Christmas Day for a pleasant visit. 
William V. Dielmann, Jr., '25, is at present a member of the Bexar County grand jury. Leonard Mark Hess, '25, bought a new home here at 224 Belvidere Drive. Michael A. Needham, Jr., '25, is the used car manager for a new Ford agency here. (Emil Mueller Motor Company). 
Harold Tynan is still %vith the Pub­lic Service Company. Kirwin Wil­liams has twins. He is with the 
G.M.A.C. John A. Bitter, Jr., is a practicing attorney here. He had an arrival in the family recently. Dan Sullivan, III., has taken his race horses to some of the country's lead­ing tracks. 
Ed Conroy, police radio station broadcaster, is at present in Minne­sota on a fellowship. Steve Wilhelm opened an advertising agency.in the Majestic Building here. Joseph Gas­treich is with the Bull Steamship Company. Dudley Walker, Jr., ex. '38, just out of Santa Rosa Hospital, here. 
J. Melvin Rohrbacb, '24, Crown Point, Indiana, writes of another ar­rival. AI Heck has offices in the Smith-Young Tower here. He is an attorney. Clem Hagerty is around, but I have not seen him lately. My old neighbor in Walsh Hall, Fred Link, just breezed in from Detroit, accompanied by his mother and his aunt. One of the biggest boosters Notre Dame ever had anywhere is Rev. Dr. Henry M. Kemper, in Kerr-ville, Texas, who dropped in to see me recently. 
Joe Menger. 

SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) 
Thomas F. Van Aarle, '21, Standard Oil Co., 
Sasinaw, Mich., President; William C Hur­
ley, '25, 117 Cherry St.. Saginaw, Mich., 
Secretary. 

SANDUSKY, OHIO 
Charles M. Hmich. '25, 925 W. WashinEton 
Street. President.- Rassell B. Smith. '2S, 2117 
Monroe Street, Secretary. 

The February meeting of the club was held on the 3rd, and Charlie Mouch provided the meeting place and what. The secretary has a hunch he was paying off for those votes he got for club president. Anyway, the door prize wasn't a Chevrolet given away by the Mouch & Mouch Sales. 
The proposed hockey party, with all the added attractions, has been history since February 9, when Joe Singler and committee more than ful­filled their promise. I hear that the Pilsner Gardens of Cleveland are a wonderful place and every Notre Dame club should pay them a visit. And as for those boys with skates on and sticks in their hands, who chase around until some other fellow blows a whistle, well, they were fine. Ask John Millot, if you doubt it. The secretary has to report this by hear­say because there happened to be a convention of the State Society of Professional Engineers in Columbus on the same date, so the hockey game was out. 
Our neighbors, the Cleveland Club, invited us to its party, February 24 at the Cleveland arena. Skating, dancing and what not are on the pro­gram. 
As yet we have no program ar­ranged for U.N.D. Night, April 25, but you can rest assured the club 
•ivill make an honest effort to come through in keeping with the occasion. 
R. R. Smith. 

Scranton 
(new club) 
Robert A. Golden, '32, 21G Colfax Ave., President; Thomas F. Icahy, '23, 416 Chamber of Commerce Bldff., Secretary. 

This is "another country" that you are hearing from! 
The writer has been a resident of Scranton for the last eight years and all during those years he has re­gretted the fact that there has never been much activity on the part of the alumni in this section. There are quite a few alumni and old students living in this district, but until re­cently no one seemed to have enough initiative to do anything by way of brin^ g the group together. How­ever, we are happy to be able to an­nounce now that some very definite steps have been taken. 
The Notre Dame Club of Scranton was organized at a meeting held in the directors' room of the Scranton Chamber of Commerce at 8:00 P.M., Tuesday, February 8, 1938. Full credit for the organization of this club should be given -to Bob Golden, '32, who brought the boys together for the purpose of making arrange­ments to pay respects to Father O'Hara when he comes to Scranton to be the guest speaker of the Irish-American Society of Lackawanna County at their annual St. Patrick's Day banquet. 
James D. Jordan, '07, presided as chairman of the organization meet­ing. Following the adoption of a mo­tion to form a permanent club which will meet regularly every month, the following officers were elected to serve for a term of one year: presi­dent, Robert A, Golden, '32; vice-president, James J. Jordan, '07; treasurer, Anthony F. O'Boyle, '37; secretary, Thomas F. Leahy, '23. 
The charter members who were in attendance at the organization meet­ing include the following: Gerard J. Battle, '37, 922 Front St., Scranton; John E. Boland, '31, 1402 Linden St., Scranton; Robert A. Golden, '32, 216 Colfax Ave., Scranton; William F. Greavy, '24, Elks Club, Scranton; James D. Jordan, '07, 1612 Capouse Ave., Scranton; Thomas J. Harring­ton, '34, 407 Drinker St., Dunmore; Thomas F. Leahy, '23, 415 Chamber of Commerce Bldg., Scranton; Joseph 
F. Manning. '29, 405 State St., Clarks Summit, Pa; Vincent J. Mc-Coola, '37, 322 Main St., Dupont, Pa.; Anthony F. O'Boyle, '37, 323 Quincy Ave., Scranton; Joseph F. O'Hara, Jr., '31, 1402 N. Washington Ave., Scranton; Charles P. O'Malley, 
•30, 1412 Linden St., Scranton;.Ed­ward T. Shean, '31, 312 Quincy Ave., Scranton. 
By-laws prepared by a committee consisting of Jim Jordan and Jack Boland were unanimously adopted. The by-laws make all alumni and for­mer students now residing in Lacka­wanna County, of which Scranton is the county seat, eligible to member­ship, and it is hoped that the mem­bership will soon be increased to at least 25 members. 
The first function of the club will be a luncheon to be held at Hotel Casey, Scranton, at noon, March 17, 1938, in honor of Father O'Hara, who has already accepted an invita­tion to be present. Other guests at the luncheon will be the bishop and the chancellor of the Scranton dio­
March - April The Notre Dame Alumnus 155 
cese, the president of St. Thomas College, and Frank Walker, promi­nent Notre Dame alumnus and mem­ber of the board of trustees of the University. 
This is all for the present, but you will be hearing more from Scranton. Before closing, I would like to say that we hope that the organization of our club will be the means of keeping the alumni in this section in closer touch with the Alumni Association with respect to payment of associa­tion dues and other matters. 
Tom Leahy. 

SOUTHWESTERN CONNECTICUT 
John M. Murphy. '27, 8S Liberty SL. BridBC­port. President: Edward P. Monahan, '34. 30-1 Becchmont Ave., Bridgeport, Secretary. 
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
Charles G. Corcoran, '17, 1134 W. Monroe St.. President: Paul D. McConncH, '32, 120 
S. Walnut St., Secretarj-. 
The club had a monthly luncheon at the K. of C. Club on Thursday, February 17, with about a dozen in attendance. A letter from Bill Coer, president of the Central Illinois club of Notre Dame, a campus organiza­tion, was read. Bill requested the cooperation of our club to help his organization put over a dance here in Springfield during the Easter holi­days. Of course, we agreed to do our stuff. In fact, we have already made most of the arrangements, and we are very happy to be in a position to assist Bill and the boys. 
We plan to have an election of of­ficers Tuesday, March 1, with Walt Bernard, Bob Knox, Harold Stone, and Charles Chuttejr in charge of the election. At this meeting we will plan our Universal Night program. 
Phil Dant, '22, from Louisville, is a new member of our Springfield club. Mr. Dant is now located at 406 South 6th Street in Springfield. 
Charlie Corcoran. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Louis 0. Chapleau. '30, 301 Union Trust Bids., South Bend, Ind., President; Clarence HardinB. '25, South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Ind., Secretary. 
Judge J. Elmer Peak, '12, Was the principal speaker at the annual joint meeting of the Notre Dame Villagers and the St. Joseph Valley club. The dinner and meeting was held Monday, March 7, at the Columbia Athletic Club. More than 100 attended. 
Vocal selections were given by Morris Frank, in charge of WSBT-WFAM's radio studio on the campus, and Ben Murdock, both members of the Villagers. William P. Howard, president of the Villagers, acted as toastmaster. 
William J. Furey, assistant treas­urer of the St. Joseph Valley club, and Mr. Howard arranged the meet­ing. 
The annual Mass in commemora­tion of the death of Knute fC Rockne will be held Sunday morning, March 27, at 8 o'clock at the Shrine of St. 
Olaf in Dillon Hall. Mass will be followed by a breakfast in the fac­ulty dining room. 
Mai Elward, head football coach at Purdue University, Gus Dorais, head coach at Detroit University, and Cap Edwards, all former teammates of Rockne, have been invited by Bill Sheeban, chairman. Elward and Do­rais will speak at the third annual Rockne Memorial program on the same night. 
Jack Shively and Burton Toepp, co-chairmen of the club's observance of Universal Notre Dame Night , Monday, April 25, announce that the affair will be a dinner held on the campus, probably in the faculty din­ing room of the University dining hall. An elaborate program of talks and music is planned. The annual election of the club's Board of Di­rectors for the following year will be held during the meeting. 
Members of the club -will take part in a 15-minute Notre Dame Night program to be broadcast from the campus radio studio over WSBT­WFAM, the radio stations of the South Bend Tribune. The time of the broadcast will be announced at a later date. 
Clarence W. Harding. 

ST. LOUIS 
Dr. Matthew W. Weis, ex. '23. 330 Metro­politan BldB., President; David J. Rielley. Jr., '30, 214 Meramec, Qayton, Mo., Sec­retary. 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
Donald Sheehy, '33, 104 Glahn Ave. Syra­cuse. President: William S. Catc. '27, 136 Harding Place, Syracuse, Secretary. 
TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt. '11, 260 Melmorc St., Presi­dent: Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St. Secretary. 
TOLEDO 
Edward J. Hagcrty, '28. 536 Woodville, President: Raymond L. Tillman. '25, 2027 Brctton PI., Secretary. 
The local club had an informal meeting on March 3 at John Hur­ley's home (one-half block drive from my home) to meet Frank Maxwell, Phy. Ed. '35, M.A. '37, who is in charge of gym work at Nazareth Mil­itary Academy, a Catholic school for boys. We discussed procedures of handling publicity, etc., for the ap­pearance of the N.D. gym team here on March 20 under the auspices of the above-mentioned school. We are calling a formal meeting for next Thursday, March 10, to go into this matter thoroughly and also to make plan s for Universal Notre Dame Night. Likewise, we might have a more active secretary after that be­cause we are going to try to have elections. 
John Q. Carey came through again with flying colors on the last election for councilman under the P.R. plan of cit y managership government. Likewise, he was also re-elected vice-mayor of this fair suburb. He is very active in all types of local legis­lation and likewise state legislation, particularly that part in looking after our unemployed in Toledo. He is very much appreciated here. 
I just heard from John Hurley that Otis Winchester, our Ohio dis­trict governor, formerly of Cleve­land, is now located in Toledo. He is staying at the Y.M.C.A. and works, I believe, at the Franklin Printing and Engraving Co. here. 
Joseph Wetli, attorney, is the proud father of a nice girl. And is he lucky, because the new Miss Wetli's birthday is December 25, or Christmas Day, Last reports were that all are doing nicely. 
Fred Sprenger is a glutton for work. He is not satisfied with run­ning the three men's furnishings stores under his father, who is now enjoying the suny south of Florida, but he takes on a LITTLE extra work of sponsoring excursion trains to ice-carnivals in Detroit and Cleveland. So far, I believe, he has sent three train loads to Detroit and one to Cleveland to see Sonja Henie, one to Detroit to see a pro hockey game, and two to the same city to see ice carnivals. He surely has gone across big in these excursions. He was, likewise, the mainstay of the Christ­mas dance, which, incidentally, was very successfully held at the Sylvania Golf Club on December 28. We had a full house and one excellent.dinner. 
Ray Tillman. 

TRI-CITIES (lUinoU-Iowa) 
George Dhlmeyep, '23, Peoples' Light Co., Moline. HI.. President: Elmer W. Besten. '27, 1711 W. Sixth St.. Davenport, Iowa, Secretary. 
Those in attendance at the meeting on February 19 included everyone but Elmer Besten, Ralph Coryn, Leo Herbert, Charles King, Francis King, Henry McCuUough, Ed Meagher, Peter Meersman, James Murphy, Myron Murphy, Robert Roach, John Roach, Oscar Smith, Charles Sollo, and R. B. Swift, but even with these stalwarts missing we had a good and enjoyable meeting. 
We welcomed into our organiza­tion Father Thomas Cleary, ex. '13, who has been appointed chaplain to St. Aatbony's Hospital in Hock Is­land. Father Cleary has been doing some very good work in furtherance of Bishop Schlarman's program of Catholic Action. 
Charlie King, '20, is really going up in the International Harvester Co. where he was recently raised to the office of assistant superintendent of the Farmall plant, of Rock Island. 
Major W. T. Stevenson, '01, is with the U. S. Corps of Engineers as a consultant in the mechanical engi­neering department in the station at the Rock Island arsenal. 
Leo Herbert has had any amount (Continued on Page 168) 
156 The Notre Dame Alumnus March- April 
THE ALUMNI » > > 
Engogefnenfs 
Announcement has been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Margaret Cosgrove and Jos­eph Langton, '28, of Peoria, Hlinois. 
HGss Elenore Hilles and Joseph S. Drtnane, '30, of Englewood, New Jersey. 
Miss Jane Elizabeth Moran and John B. McGee, '30, of Warsaw, New York. 
Miss Marjorie E. Johnson and Car­los H. Frank, '33, of Buffalo, New York. 
Miss Helen D. Slatterj- and John 
J. McLaughlin, '34, of Cumberland Hill, Ehode Island. 
Miss Bettj' Jane Hodges and Rob­ert Kenline, '35, of Dubuque, Iowa. The wedding will be on April 23, at Kalamazoo, Michigan. 
Morriages 
Miss Maiy Katherine Maurin and John Paul Cullen, '22, w-ere manied, January 13, in Thurmont, Mai-j'land. 
Miss Eleonore Chlebowski and Mark E. Nevils, '27, were married, February 21, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Florence Louise Coates and Sylvester John Dougherty, '29, were married, Febi-uaiy 12, in Steuben-ville, Ohio. 
Miss Mary Loretta Snite and Ter­rence Dillon, '32, were married, Feb­ruary 8, in Miami Beach, Florida. 
The marriage of Miss Pat Louise SwajTiie and Henry Tholen, '32, took place, Februarj' 18, in Chicago, Illi­nois. 
Miss Edith Nora O'Brien and Paul 
Henry Seaman, ' 33, Were married, 
February 28, in Buffalo, New York. 
The marriage of Miss Dorothy 
Miller and Jeroroe J. Gushing, '35, 
took place, September 4. 
Miss Jean Marie Kennedy and Roderick Joseph Gilles, '37, were married, December 30, in 'Wellsboro, Pennsylvania. 
The marriage of Miss Katherine Vesy and Fred Mundee, ex. '37, took place, February 5, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Caroline Kaplan and Abe Zosi, ex. '37, were married, February 6, in South Bend. 
Miss Hester Han-iet Rogers and 
Charles L. Monnot, Jr., '34, were 
married , January 29, in Detroit, Michigan. 
Bf'rfhs 
A son, Paul J., Jr., was born to Mr. and Mrs. Paul J. Pfohl, '22, of Chicago, on January 17. 
A son, Robert John, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Frank Henry Klaas, '27, on Febmary 13, in Chicago. 
A son, William Henry, Jr., was bom to Mr. and Airs. William Henry McCullough, '27, of Warren, Ohio, on December 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur K. Sullivan, '27, announce the birth of a son, Terence Maze, on Februarj' 12, in St. Paul, Minnesota. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Quigley, '29, announce the birth of a son, Thomas, Jr., on February 8, in Shenandoah, Pennsylvania. 
A daughter, Barbara Hess, was bora to Mr. and Mrs. Alois John Wel­zenbach, '29, on October 10, in Peoria, Illinois. 
A son was born to Mr. and Mrs. William H. Bromann, '30, on Janu­ary 23, in Oak Park, Illinois. 
Mr. and Mrs. James Leahy, '30, announce the birth of a son, James Patrick, on October 26, in Oak Park, Illinois. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Moran, '30, of Tulsa, Oklahoma, announce the birth of a son, Brian Joseph, on FebiTiary 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward R. Brennan, '31, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Sarah Irene, on February 9, in South Bend. 
A son was born to Mr. and Mrs. Albert L. Doyle, '27, Febmary 25, in Mishawaka, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Fergus, '35, an­nounce the birth of a daughter on February 26, in South Bend. 
A daughter was born to Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Fromhart, '37, Febru­ary 16, in Chicago. 
A son, Jack W., Jr., was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Jack W. Reilly, '29, of Morristown, New Jersey, on Febru­ary 10. 
Deaths 
Thomas D. Mott, '95, died in Los Angeles on February 27 after a long illness. -A. law graduate, Mr. Mott practiced law in Puerto Rico in his earlier years and was a Federal dis­trict judge there. Returning later to South Bend he was appointed to the superior court bench to fill an unex­pired term. He left for his native Los Angeles in 1926 and, with his brother, formed the law partnership of Mott, Valee & Grant. 
Mr. Mott is survived by his wife, one son, a sister and a brother. 
Arthur W. Lydon, '17, died in 
Geneva, New York, on February 17, according to a note on the daily 
Religious Bulletin. 
Word has just reached the Alumni Office of the death on January 5, 1937, of Albert P. Hoff, e.x. '08, in Milwaukee. 
Albert A. Browne, 67 years old, for many years mayor of Brownsville, Texas, died on January 8 in his home after an illness of a week, according to a clipping sent by Joseph Menger, '25. Mr. Browne, a student at Notre Dame in 1880-85, was municipal judge in Brownsville at the time of his death. A member of family long distinguished in the area, he was out­standing in civic sendee and in local Catholicity. 
Innumerable alumni will hear with genuine sadness of the death of two Brothers of Holy Cross who gave long years to the service of the Uni­versity and the students. Brother Willibrord and Brother Columbkill. 
The reputed inventor and chief producer of the famed Notre Dame buns. Brother Willibrord, 65 years old, was head of the University bak­eries from 1900 until the new dining hall was opened in 1927. His buns ran well into the millions and their fame, in song and story, circled the earth. 
As a University carpenter. Brother Columbkill, 82 years old, was a fa­miliar campus figure through many generations of students. His skill in designing, building and repairing was traditional. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sym­pathy to Eddie Gould, '23, upon the death of his wife; John Rourke, '24, upon the death of his father and mother; Louis Carr, '28, upon the death of his mother; Charles Colton, '29, upon the death of his mother; James L. Walsh, '30, upon the death of his father; Ed Redmond, '30, upon the death of his father. 
March - April The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Personals 
Before 1880 p^r'^V^r "^-S- °^" 
laghcr, FitchDurg, Mass. 

1880-1885 Secretary: Prof. Robert M. Anderson, CirclevUIe, Ohio. 
Class of 1883 FlFTy-FIVE-yEAR REUNION 
June 3, 4 and 5 

1886 Secretary: Slichad O. Bums, 338 S. Second St., Hamilton, Ohio 
1887-1888 Secretary: J. L. Heineman, Conncrsville. Indiana. 
Class of 1888 FlFTY-yEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 

1889 Secretary: P. E. Burke, 301 Camp New Orleans, Louisiana. 
1890-1893 Secretary: Louis P. Chute. 7 Univ. Ave., Minneapolis, Minn. 
Class of 1893 1 FORTV-FIVE-yEAR REUNION ) June 3, 4 and 5 | 

1Sq4 Secretary: Hugh A. O'Donnell. 1 W. *° ^ 67th St., New York City. 
1895 Secretary: Eustace Cuilinan, Sr., 860 Phelan Bide., San Francisco, Calif. 
1896 Secretary: William P. Burns, 327 Willard Ave., Michigan City, Indiana. 
1897 Secretary: Rev. J. A. MacNamara. St. Jos. Sanitarium, Mt. Qemens, Mich. 
1898 Secretary: William C. Kegler, 9th & Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 
FORTy-yEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 

1899 Secretary: Dr. Joseph F. Duane, 418 Jefferson Blvd., Peoria, HI. 
1900 
lOQI Secretary: Joseph J. Sullivan, 1300, 139 N. Clark St., Chicogo. 111. 
1902 Secretary: C. C. Mitchell, 110 S. Dearborn St., Bo.t 3. Chicago, HI. 
1903 Secretary: Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. BIdg., Milwaukee, Wis. 
THIRTy-FIVE-yEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 
1904 Secretary; Robert Proctor, Monger Bldg., Elkhart, Indiana. 
The class secretary addressed the Law Club of the University on Feb­ruary 28. His subject was "Drama in the Law." 
1905 Secretary: Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. *0v v LaSallc St.. Chicago, 111. 
1906 Secretary: Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen Bldg., Spokani, Wash. 
1907 Secretary: Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. 
Father William Cunningham, 
C.S.C., a member of the faculty at Portland University in Oregon, re­cently spent two weeks vacation in Hawaii as the guest of Father Mc-Manus, chaplain of the U.S.S. Salt Lake, which is stationed at Pearl Harbor. While in Honolulu Father Cunningham delivered an address be­fore the Carroll Club, an organiza­tion of Caucasian Catholic men. 
1908 Secretary: Frank X. Cull, Bulkley Building, Cleveland, Ohio 
THIRTy-yEAR REUNION 
June 3, 4 and 5 

1909 Secretary: E. P. Cleary, Notre Dame. Indiana. 
1910 Secretary: Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 1900 Euclid Ave., Qevcland, Ohio. 
1911 Secretary: Fred Steers, 1666 First National Bank Bldg., Chicago, 111. 
1912 Secretary: B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St.. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Henry, '12, and Thomas Dockweil­
er, '12, together with Dr. Robert, '29, and Frederick, ex. '32, were present to help their father, Isidore B. Dock­weiler, of Los Angeles, celebrate his seventieth birthday recently. Eleven children and seve n grandchildren took part in the observance. 
1913 Secretary: James J. Devitt, 921 En­gineers' Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio. 
TWENTy-FIVE-yEAR REUNION 
June 3, 4 and 5 

BULLETIN: Father Allan Heiser, C.S.C,OTU be the local chairman for the 25-year reunion. Plans in the next issue! 
Writing longingly of the silver an­niversary reunion, Clyde Broussard recalls some of the personages of 25 years ago. He says in part: 
"There is Bill Cotter, our Associa­tion president. Bill's record should be almost complete in your files, ex­cept that you may not find that Bill married the beauty prize holder of St. Mary's of our time, Evarista Brady. 
"Then there is Fred 'Cy' WilHami. His baseball record crowded the fa­mous Ty Cobb out of the headlines. 
"The track records of our class­mate, James Wasson, were almost permanent at Notre Dame. 
"William 'Peaches' Granfield was twice captain of the basketball team and played baseball so well that the big leagues wanted him. And he went places in the political world and became nationally known. 
"Warren Ray Cartier, whose fa­ther was the Vheel horse' of the Alumni Association, daring its in­fancy and adolescence, and the donor of Cartier field, was a member of our class." 
Clyde continues with some rare personal reminiscences of the other days: 
"I am sure I was quite a picture when I played the part of a burly soldier and carried a spear in a Phil­opatrian Society play in which Ally Dwan, the now famoas picture direc­tor, Alan Dwan, was the star. That spear rattled so from my trembling that the noise could be heard in the rear of the Washington Hall auditor­ium, which is going some. 
"Once I appeared on the stage of Washington Hall and felt at home. A sort of vaudeville performance was arranged for a student auilience and Dummy Smith and I agreed to stage a demonstration wrestling bout. That is the time I should have had stage fright because the two of us embar­rassed the president. Father Cava­naugh, accidentally. We expected only residents of the campus to be in the audience and came out for our act in our ordinary gym wrestling togs, principally a pair of somewhat abbreviated trunks. We were sur­prised, and Father Cavanangh was embarrassed because he had brought a group of visitors, several of them women. 
"Probably I might have been bene­fitted by stage fright that night be­cause it was only a month or two later that Dummy Smith and eight or ten other students were sent home by Father Cavanaugh for creating a disturbance on the campus in cele­bration of the winning of a spirited three-game series of baseball games between Notre Dame and the Arkan­sas University team, coached by the great Hugo Bezdek. It was all inno­cent fun to the boys, but to the presi­dent it was brealdng the rules, so I had to go home. Maybe he would have been more lenient if he had had more time to forget the Washington Hall performance." 
Father James J. O'Brien, CS.C, pastor of St. Mary's Church in Aus­tin, Texas, as well as national chai>­lain of the Reserve Officers' Associa­tion, was the celebrant of the military field Mass and one of the chief speakers on March 2 in Old Wash­ington on-the-Brazos, Texas, on the occasion of the anniversary celebra­tion of the signing of the Texas Dec­laration of Independence. Governor James V. AUred of Texas, and Most Rev. C. E. Byrne, bishop of Galves­ton, were other speakers. Father Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C, '16, presi­dent of St. Edward's, Austin, was the celebrant of the Benediction, which closed the day. 
1914 Sc«'et!"^': Frank H. Hayes. 406 
Bank of America BIdf;.. Anaheim, Cal. 
|Q| e Secretary: James E. Sanford, Jam Handy Theatre Service. Inc. 230 Park Avenue, New York City. 
Jim Sanford continues to cover the 
Eastern Front. He writes: 
"A letter from Eddie Rogers, old 
student of 1912, brings the news that 
he is president of the Layne North­
west Company, 709 North Eleventh 
Street, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Eddie 
completed his engineering course at 
Marquette but has maintained an ac­
tive interest in Notre Dame affairs 
as a member of the Milwaukee Club, 
which he says is doing well. 
"George N. Shuster contributes an­other of his brilliant articles "Twi­light in the Third Reich" to a recent issue of Commomveal. He has been in Germany since May and is now in the orchestra circle of Vienna ob­serving the exciting Nazi drama of the past few weeks. We are informed that he will return sometime in April. 
" 'I seldom comment publicly on such matters but never during my 30 years as a pastor has a mission so successful been held in my parish.' This was the enthusiastic tribute of Msgr. Francis C. Campbell of St. Jerome's Church, 138th and Alexan­der (The Bronx) on the night of Februarj' 6 before 1600 men at the close of a month's mission conducted by Fathers Joseph E. Hart, C.S.C., "24, William A. Bolger, C.S.C, '07, Edward R. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., '30, and Frederick J. Schulte, C.S.C, '27. These modest Notre Dame men, mem­bers of our Holy Cross Mission Band spreading the word of God through­out America, are under the able lead­ership of Rev. Patrick Dolan, C.S.C., of our class. 
"On March 27, Fathers Hart and Bolger will again come to New York City when they give another iFJssion for two weeks at St. M a 1 a c h y ' s Church on 49th Street between Sev­enth and Eighth Avenues. 
"At times we may marvel at the prestige enjoj'ed by Notre Dame in this great citj' a thousand miles from the University, but it is no longer a mystery when we learn the esteem in which our missionary priests are held in the parishes and •witness the zeal with which they carry on in this little publicized, but very important and fruitful, activity of the priests of Holy Cross. 
"An appeal to 1915 men! 
"We are informed that the next issue of the ALUMNUS will be pub­lished in May so there is ample time to send in news about yourself or other members of the class with whom you may have contact. Forget your modesty regarding accomplish­ments in business or professions and tell us the story. Let us know about your family. Your friends and class­The Notre Dame Alumnus 

mates are always interested, so why 
not take over that May issue and tell 
the world." 
2926 Secretary: Timothy P. Galvin, First Trust Bids., Hammond, Ind. 
Tim Galvin took advantage of some K. of C. correspondence with Joseph p. Flynn, Rochester, Ne w York (Stubby to all of you), to dig out a lot of delectable Notre Dame dope for you. 
Stubby's letter to Tim is printed here. The modest author fails to say, though, that he himself, besides being one of the city's finest archi­tects—this upon the word of Profes­sor Kervick, head of the Department of -Architecture, who has seen some of Stubby's beautiful structures — is deputy grand knight of the Roch­ester Knights of Columbus. Stubby's offices are at 154 East Avenue, Roch­ester. His letter to Tim follows: 
"On many occasions when perusing the ALUMNUS, I have recognized your inability to prepare news of the 1916 class without some cooperation from the members themselves, and I am personally glad of this opportun­ity to offer a brief resume of the Rochester boys of 1916 and also other classes. 
"Joe Miller, '16, residing at 202 Flower City Park, is attached to the local branch of the Traveler's Insur­ance Company in an engineering ad­visory capacity and is the same Joe in appearance, demeanor, and activ­ity. He has four children, two boys and two girls. 
"Tom O'Connor, '14, has been edi­tor of the diocesan Catholic news­paper for many years and 'incidental­ly' the father of six boys each of them looking Notre Dame-ward. His boarding house is located at 428 Magee Avenue. 
"Harold Burke, '16, as you know, is a U. S. district judge and his de­sen-ing appointment to this high office for a life period bespeaks his character and fitness for the office. He resides at 30 Lake View Park with his family of two boys and one girl. 
"Art Curran, '15, of 34 Vassar Street, who later matriculated at Cornell, but never lost his love and fidelity for Notre Dame, is a very successful lawyer and a member of a local firm with a name which re­quires hay fever to properly pro­nounce. He has a family also of two boys and one girl. 
"Ray McAdams, ex. '16, has re­sided in St. Petersburg, Florida, for several years and is grand knight of the council there. He pays an an­nual visit to the old haunts to check on the welfare of the gang. 
"Frank Quinlan, ex. '14, of 141 Normandy Avenue, is one of our out­March - April 
standing architects and his creations are constantly dotting the community landscape despite the prolonged re ­cession of the building industry. Frank has a family of three boys and two girls. 
"Jake Eckel, '16, of Syracuse, is a periodical visitor to Rochester, and, were it not for the responsibilities of his steel business and a family of two boys and two girls, I am sure we would see him more frequently. 
"Emil 'George' Reidman, '14, is helping the Eastman Kodak Company devise additional ways and means of making the world Kokak-minded. He hasn't grown any since leaving Notre Dame although he has acquired a family of two children. 
"As you know, Father Hugh O'Donnell has visited Rochester on several occasions during the past few years, and only recently entertaining­ly reviewed for us some of the details of the St. Joe Hail reunion last June. 
"During the summer months those of the old Rochester gang located elsewhere in the United States mi­grate to the old haunts for a few weeks and you can well imagine the enjoyable reunions. Frank Mulcahy, '14, now a lieutenant colonel in the Marine Aviation located at Quantico, Virginia — Mike McGrath, '16, the big brewery operator of Peoria, Illi­nois— Joe Farrell, '15, the electrical wizard of the G. E. Co. — Freddie Pralatowski, '16, a big part of the du Pont Rayon Co. of Buffalo, New York — and Pete Yearns, '16, the same world itinerant as of old—com­prise pretty generally the gang we see practically every year. 
"I am sure that any of the 1916 dass who can arouse themselves into a reminiscent mood with a letter to any of the local crowd will receive an enthusiastic response for their effort." 
The finest wishes of the class will go with Mai Elward in his appoint­ment as head football coach at Pur­due to succeed Noble Kizer, '25, who resigned on account of illness. Mai has been an assistant coach at Pur­due since 1927. Nobe will continue as director of athletics. 
1917 Secretary: Edward J. McOsker, 104 
S. Union St., Elein, HL 
2323 Secretary: John A. Lemmer, 1110— 8th Ave., Escanaba, Mich. 
TWENTy-YEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 
Father Francis Boland, C.S.C., head of the Department of Politics, will be the local chairman for the 20­year reunion, according to the an­nouncement of the class secretary 

March- April 
just before he took off from Esca­naba on a two-weeks' business trip. 
John promised to "get after things" upon his return. You'll be hearing from him. You can plan now to tell him that that you'll be present on June 3, 4 and 5. 
291^3 Secretary: Clarence Bader. 650 Pierce Street, Gary, Indiana. 
1920 Secretary: Leo B. Ward. 1012 Black Bids., Los Angeles, Calif. 
1921 Secretary: Dan W. Duffy. 1600 Ter­minal Tower, Qeveland, Ohio. 
1922 Secretary: Gerald Ashe, Buffalo Ath­letic Qub, Buffalo, New York. Kid Ashe is back again into his customary fine stuff. He writes: 
"Elsewhere in this issue is the for­mal announcement of the marriage of Miss Katherine Maurin, of Gilbert, Minnesota, to John Paul Cullen, of Janesville, Wisconsin. Father Edward Roach, formerly of Washington, offi­ciated at the wedding Mass in the Church of Our Lady of Mount Car­mel, Thurmont, Maryland, on Janu­ary 13. The couple were attended by Mr. and Mrs. George E. Brown, of Washington, D. C, and many Wash­ington friends of the couple were in attendance. John Paul has been con­nected with the Veterans Adminis­tration in Washington for the past several years. Just recently, he was transferred to Los Angeles in a pro­motion which places him in charge of claims in the L.A. office. Best wishes to the newly weds, and special congratulations to J.P, on the recent promotion. 
"One of our reporters met John Huether, of General Electric, Sche­nectady, on a Pittsburgh-bound train recently. John said he expected to attend the Notre Dame-Colgate bas­ketball game in Albany, February 26. 
"Chet Wynne has resigned as ath­letic director and head football coach at the University of Kentucky. Pres­ident Frank L. VcVey in announcing Chefs resignation, commented: 
" 'Mr. Wynne is an effective coach, a pleasant gentleman, effective in his organization of plays and direction of team work. It is with genuine re­gret that I received Mr. Wynne's resignation.' 
"It is reported that Chet may establish a law practice. 
"Jim Jones, affectionately called 'the Judge' in his undergraduate days, has been acting as referee in a silicosis hearing in Buffalo. 
"Hunk Anderson has left the foot­ball coaching staff of Michigan to start coaching work at the University of Cincinnati, in the spring. 
"We must not forget to mention that Earl Walsh has been doing some 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
excellent work in assisting Head Coach Jim Crowley at Fordham. Earl does not make the sport column very often, but his contribution has done much to put Fordham in the top flight in football the past two sea­sons. 
"A recent issue of the ALUMNUS carried the sad news of the death of William (Bill) Miner, of Endjcott, New York. It is repeated for bene­fit of those who may have overlooked prior mention. Bill, you will recall, took law at N.D. He was one of the happiest men of '22, and all deeply regret the death of this good-natured character, who despite physical han­dicap, did so much to brighten the lives of his classmates. Bill had a fine law practice in the Tri-City area, and a legion of friends who deeply mourn him. 
"Prof. Pat Manion is sick and tired of listening to alibis of friends visit­ing South Bend and Notre Dame and not knowing the whereabouts of the Manion Manor House. In an effort to eliminate afore mentioned alibis, Pat and Mrs. Pat, or ^iee versa, sent out some very atti-active Christmas cards, elaborate in detail, describing the proper route for the traveler from South Bend to the Manion domicile. Whether by design or chance, no in­structions are mentioned as to how to get away from Pat's home, and many witnesses can testify that fa­miliar landmarks very often do not look so familiar on the way back." 
1923 Secretary: Paul H. Castner. 17 Cor­nell Road, West Hartford, Conn. 
FIFTEEN-YEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 

John Byrne sends this news from Buffalo: 
"I was in Cleveland two weeks ago and happened to get there at the time of the 'road builders show' and met Ed Cantwell of the class of 1924. Ed is Ohio sales manager for the Taylor Caterpillar Tractor Company at Columbus, Ohio. We also ran into Joe Sheehan, who is of the same class, and he is with the Ohio Bureau of Roads at Columbus. 
"I went from there to Detroit, and while eating lunch at the Detroit Atheltic Club, I met Tom Maher, who was at Notre Dame in 1920 and later went to the University of Detroit, where he was captain of the football team. Tom is judge of the traffic court in Detroit and asked for Red Maher, Rod Shaughnessy, John Kelly, Bill Gilchrist and many others. While talking, Howard Fisher walked in. Howard was there at the same time and gave me news of Nels Callahan, Charlie Martin and a number of others around Cleveland." 
159 

1924 Secretary: J. F. Hayes. Wm. J. Ped­rick & Co.. IntemaUonsl Bid e Bock­efeller Center, New York City. 
The 1924 section is running over with news, as promised! Jim Hayes sent the following world-beating let­ter to the ALUMNUS in early Feb­ruary: 
"In order to cover our class, I sent a form letter to the mailing list I have, and up to the present I hav? received gratifying response from a dozen or more of the class of '24. One of the most encouraging com­ments in all the letters I have re­ceived is the pleasure expressed in my effort to get the class together again, if only by mail—even a form letter. 
"Al Koehler writes me that he is with the Phoenix Chair Company, of Sheboygan, Wisconsin, working out of 666 Lake Shore Drive, and that he is unattached up to the moment. The products of the Phoenix Chair Com­pany must be up to par, because Al tells me the chairs in the Notre Dame dining halls are Phoenix chairs. 
"From Worthington, Minnesota, from the Probate Court of Nobles County, and from Hon. Vincent 'Red' Hollaren, comes a page full of news of everyone in the neighborhood, ex­cept himself. Red relates that John 
C. O'Donnell, his former roommate in Sorin Hall, is a prosperous lawyer with the firm Nist & O'Donnell, Mansfield, Ohio. John is tied, with the class secretary, for the class of '24 record in that he is the father of four children. [Whoa! Bob Riordan has eight.—^Eds.] Mark Nolan, of or­atorical and debating fame at school, is now district judge, with offices in Duluth. Mark was formerly with the Minnesota legislature. It is hard for me to believe what Red tells me, that Mark apparently observes no laws of diet. (Aside to Red: I have never seen Man Mountain Dean, so I won't believe it.) 
"Tom Donavan, I am told, is with an impressive law firm, Markman, Donavan & Sullivan, on Madison Street, Chicago. In turn, Donavan relates that Ray Brady (more about him later) is going strong in Salt Lake City. Ed Buckley is married to Tom Walsh's sister, and has one child. Dan Salmon is an assistant district attorney in Cleveland. Tom Walsh papas one boy and one girl. Red Hollaren has his eyes out for the one and only Michael Schmidt, the 
in.' 
"A fine letter from Ray Brady, at-tomey-at-law, in the Ness Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, tells me in the first paragraph that he was in New York last year, but neglected to look me up. He promises a return visit shortly. Ray went to Salt Lake City after graduation, coached athletics for a year, commenced the active 
The Notre Dame Alumnus March- April 
practice of law, and was admitted to the Supreme Court of Utah in 1924. He sen-ed a terra in the prosecutor's office, and also a couple of years in the office of the citj- attorney, and is now genei-al counsel for the Salt Lake Real Estate Board and the Utah State Eealt}' Association. Bay has been admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of the United States, conducted his last trial as a bachelor, on September 1, 1937, and was mar­ried on September 2, 1937, and at present holds no brief for his former unfoilunate state. Ray sends his warmest regards to all members of the class of '24, and imites us, one and all, to visit him in Salt Lake City. From Ray's letter, I feel certain that the situation in Utah is well in hand, as far as the class of '24 is concerned, and that we will be hearing more from him. 
"From Jacksonville, Florida, Les­ter Foley writes me that he is mar­ried (Edith Klug, St. Maiy's, '25), and that there are two children — Patiicia and Jerry. Les is president of the Foley Lumber Company, op­erating three building supply estab­lishments in north Florida. His di­rector of sales is John M. Hughes, of the class of 1930. To show you how scattered Notre Dame men are, Les tells me that down in Florida he fre­quently sees Harry Mehre, Frank Tbomas, Rex Enright, Rodge Kiley, Chet Wynne and Charlie Bachman. (Is this the new six-man team they are talking about?) Les also was in Vancouver, British Columbia, las t summer, to visit his brother, Harold Foley, '20. On the trip out he stopped in Chicago to talk the situation over with his old roommate, Paul McNulty, of '22 and '23. Coming back by way of Texas, Les visited Pat Buell and Jim Swift. 
"Bill Crook writes me from Pipe­stone, Minnesota, where he is post­master. Bill was, formerly with the Universal Credit Company, and while there, worked with Don Ryan, '27, and Marty Dolan, of the class of 1930. Don was assistant branch managers, but latest reports make him branch manager in Cleveland. Marty Dolan is assistant branch man­ager of the Minneapolis office. (EX­TRA! All Records Broken, because Bill advises he has four boys and one girl.) [Boy, page Major Riordan to quell this challenge to his position.] 
"Louis Navin sends a letter from Mitchell, South Dakota, where he has practiced law for ten years. He was state's attorney from 1933 to 1937, and during his tei-m as state's attor­ney, the countj' built one of the finest court houses in the Northwest, and Louis played a big part in its plan­ning. Here is an alumnus who brings a problem: There are 70 Noti-e Dame men scattered through South Dakota, but they seldom meet. A real con­structive job could be done in organ­izing a state body of Notre Dame men here, and I am sure that Navin will give his support to any move­ment of this kind. 
"Bob Rink, president of the Gosh­en Slanufacturing Company, Goshen, Indiana, manufacturers of toys, play equipment, porch furniture, etc., etc. (see his catalog, 'Summer Glory' for your children, and yours, and yours). Bob is married, lives at 215 West Burdick Street, Goshen, Indiana, and in his eagerness to see more news of our class in the ALUaiNUS, calls on all members to support the efforts of the class secretary. 
"From Jim Swift, in Dallas, Texas, a member of the firm Hamilton, Lips­comb & Wood, attomeys-a-law, in the Southwestern Life Building, comes a long letter. Jira has been pi-acticing law in Dallas for 10 years, and eight of these 10 he has been married. He has a 19-months-old daughter, and only Jim's modesty prevented him from telling me that the recent Texas celebration was held in her honor. Jim repoi'ts that in Washington recently he saw Fod Cot­ton, of the class of '23. Pat Buell is in the lumber business in Dallas, and Sciggs Scoggins is %vith the Hum­ble Oil Company at Houston. Nat Powers is pi-acticing law, and oil, in Houston. Matt Rothert is building furniture at -Ajrkansas, and has ac­quired—or has been acquired by—a very charming bride, formerly of Chicago. Jim reports he saw Tom Hodgson and Slim Lynard in Minne­sota last summer, and both are pros­pering. 
"A most welcome letter from Ernest Russell McClure, editor and manager of the Henry County Local, a newspaper devoted to the best in­terests of Henrj' Count}', with offices in New Castle and Eminence, Ken­tucky. Russell is located in New Castle, and is mamed, and has a girl eight years old. He would like to hear from the class of '24, although up to the moment he has extended an inritation to the Kentucky Derby only to the class secretary. (The class secretarj' looks fonvard to accepting all of the invitations that have been extended to him, when, he does not know, but surely some day.) Russell will be with us at our next reunion. 

"Al Castellini, of the law firm. Hall, Castellini, Frey & Jackson, in the -A.tlas Bank Building, 524 Walnut Sti-eet, Cincinnati, Ohio, writes that he is married and has two boys, and lives at 1301 Park Ridge Place, Cin­cinnati, Ohio. .A.1 is honorary Belgian consul at Cincinnati with jurisdiction of 48 counties in Ohio and 3 Ken­tuckj' counties. His explanation of this unusual appointment is that his father is of Italian descent, his mother of Irish descent, and his wife of German descent—therefore, he is honoi-ary Belgian consul. He notes that Leo DuBois, prominently identi­fied with athletics at Noti-e Dame a few years before our time, is now an officer of the Frederick Schmidt Com­pany, a real estate firm in Cincinnati, and that Leo is Belgian and com­prises the bulk of AI's constituency, as far as Cincinnati is concerned. 
"In his well-filled letter, Al tells me that Elmer Layden was gTiest of honor at a dinner of the Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati; that Jack Heilker is an attomey-at-law, and is president of the Notre Dame Club of Cincin­nati, succeeding Fran k Sweeney. Fi-ank is manager of the Kemper Lane Hotel in Cincinnati. Notr e Dame men will feel at home there because Frank has pei-mitted the club to maintain headquarters in his fine hilltop hotel. Farrell Johnson and Gene Mayl are practicing law in Day­ton, Ohio. Al reports that he had a recent business visit with Charles de la Vergne in the p2:actice of law, at New Orleans, and that Joe Blache, formerly a judge in Hammond, Loui­siana, is now an assistant United States attorney there. Al tells me that at the Northwestern game, he met Jack Kevill, who is now with the Palmolive Company in Chicago. He also saw Red Maher, now with the hotel di\'ision of Swift & Company. .A.t the Pittsburgh game, he sat with Sam Barry and Eddie Gould. 

"Joe C. Ryan is at St. Mai-y's Hos­pital, Tucson, -Arizona. He is looking forward to a return to Notre Dame some day soon. Joe, I am sure, would like to hear from a lot of us and re­ports that Father Tom Kelly and Al Serva are faithful con'espondents. Joe ^^'ill hear from the class secre­taiy, perhaps before this is printed. 
"An enjoyable letter from James L Smith, Jr., tells me he is another New York visitor, who neglects to look me up. Jim was ^^•ith the Bank of New York and Trust Company here in New York for awhile, and took a night course at Columbia. Then he worked with the Detroit Edison Com­pany, left that organization in 1935 to take up the business his father es­tablished in 1904. Jim is now presi­dent of the Esmeralda Canning Com­pany, of Circieville, Ohio, canners of quality vegetables for all of us. Jim is married for the past nine years, and has t\vo children: a boy, seven, and a girl, three. Jim's letterhead tempts my appetite, and if your local grocer has not his brands in stock you better do something about it. Just write to Jim and I am sure he vi-ill tell you what these brands are. 
"The class secretary thanks Broth­er Bernard, C.S.C., for his interesting reply and hopes he will receive per­mission to tell the class some of the things he told me in this letter. 
"Charles O. DeBarry, who is al­most across the street from the class 
March - April The Notre Dame Alumnus 161 
secretary, is now associated witii Jo­seph Preedlander, architect, at 681 Fifth Avenue. After too long a so­journ in Washington, Charlie is back in his favorite city. He has just had approved, plans and di-awings for the new Supreme Court building to be constructed at Park .A.venue and 39th Street. It is one of the city's out­standing projects for 1938. Frank Dufficy, also back from Washington, is assistant to Supreme Court Justice Edward S. Dore, and is completing his law work, preparatory to his ad­mission to practice. In other words, Charlie DeBarry is designing the building for Frank to work in. 
"As a concluding note, let it be said that the Hayes, of 57 Moran Place, New Rochelle, New York, have re­cently acquired a pedigreed English bull-dog, now gi-aced with the name, 'Sadie Thompson,' and happy in the reputation of being, without ques­tion, the ugliest, but the friendliest, dog in Westchester County." 
Recent newspaper report s had John Stanton, a lawyer in Gary, In­diana, as about ready to run for prosecuting attorney on the Demo­ci-atic ticket in Lake County. John is deputy prosecutor at present. 
Ben Kesting, '25, of Toledo, sent the welcome word that Ed Cantwell, of Columbus, Ohio, had been elected president of the Ohio Society of Pro­fessional Engineers at a recent con­vention in Columbus. Ed is Ohio sales manager for the Taylor Cater­pillar Tractor Company. Ben is county engineer for Lucas Countv, Ohio. 
192 5 Secretary: John P. Hurley. 20S3 Brookilale Road. Toledo. Ohio. 
Parlor Furniture Hurley ei-ashes through handsomelv again. He sends this: 
"To beat the deadline this month, I was forced to send out a few last minute cards pleading for news. All credit and appreciation goes to Clar­ence W. Hardingr, who sat next to the Hurleys through four years of Commerce. We had to 'scoop' the very -A.lumni Office itself for late news flashes. In ease I get any be­lated answers to my cards, we will use them in the next issue. -4.nd thanks a million, Clarence. You have 'the spot.' 
" 'It was a pleasant surprise to re­ceive your card asking about the 1925 men li\ang in and around South Bend. We appreciate the opportun­itj- of giving you the information on 1925's 'Home Guard.' Whether these fellows couldn't get the money to get out of town, or just like it here, we can't say. However, here's the dope on most of them. We trust we haven't missed anyone. 
" 'Let's start with the athletes. -A few newspapers in the country have mentioned tha t Elmer Layden is Notre Dame's head football coach and athletic director. Elmer, of course, lives in South Bend with his family. Joe Boland, '27, is one of Elmer's assistants. He does a swell job of announcing for the South Bend Tribune radio stations, WSBT­WFAM, too. (adv.) Bill Cemey is coach of the "B" team and a popular speaker. Bill acts as commentator on Nofa-e Dame football mo\aes at smokers and meetings in many places. His vritty comments on them have made him very popular, 

" 'Jim 'Your Dues are Due' Arm­strong you know about. He's the fellow who continually clutters up your mail with those alumni dues no­tices. He's veiy popular and a hard worker. Tom Barry is the Univer­sity's director of general publicity, assisted by Karl Miller, '25, also a former Hearst man. Father Tom Mc-Avoy is the University's archivist (believe it or not). Father John Lynch is assistant prefect of reli­gion. Gil Coty is teaching Spanish. Well, we're finally off the campus. 
" 'Charles Baumgartner, the old 

glee clubber, very nearly has a glee club of his own. -A splendid family of five or six children. Charlie is on the sales staff of the Standard Oil Company. Gilbert Uhl and Wayne Cox work there, too, in the account­ing department. Speaking of ac­counting, Armano Porta is assistant chief accountant of the Studebaker Corporation. He's man-ied, has one child. Bill Braunsdorf is in the gen­eral accounting department of the same company. Bill is married and has a daughter. Lloyd B. Shroff is in charge of factory accounting for the South Bend Lathe Works. 
" 'Let's go back on the campus for a moment. Bill Sheehan is helping run the campus candy store, in addi­tion to his tire business. He is also a co-promoter of special ti^ains to foot­ball games. Last fall his organiza­tion ran specials to the Illinois and the Minnesota games. They'll run a special to the Notre Dame-Southem California game next December. 
" 'Russ Arndt is football coach at Jlishawaka High School. He's had some fine teams. Cheerleader Eddie Luther is district manager for a Mil­waukee breweiy, with offices in South Bend. 
" 'Joe Miller is justice of the peace for Portage township (which includes South Bend). He's practicing law wit h Frank Coughlin, an earlier Notre Dame football captain and star. Joe Hogan is in a law firm with Bill Voor, Bill Jackson and Bob Grant. Leo Rieder and Cliff Potts, the old dmm majoz-, have their law offices together. Cliff was county at­torney until January 1. Recently he announced his candidacy on the Re­publican ticket for the job of supe­rior court judge of St. Joe County. Wilford Walz is deputy prosecutor under George N. Beamer. Charles Glueckert is practicing law, as is 
Morris Feldman. 
" 'George Koch is teaching at Eiley High School in South Bend. Doc Stoeckley, formerly graduate mana­ger of Notre Dame campus publica­tions, is in the printing and engrav­ing business in Chicago. Joe Fein­gold is running a radio and electrical appliance store. All the deaf bless George Sheehe. He's distributor of Sonotone (adv.) hearing aids. Dick Zilky is in the stock and bond busi­ness. 
" 'Your correspondent has long since given up the piano and radio. He's with the South Bend Tribune, writing and selling advertising, and managing the newspaper's promotion. He'd like veiy much to know what the H—1 became of Joe Harmon, Leonard Hess, Bill Hurley and a few others whose names begin with H. 
" 'See you at Commencement.' " 

"I have been on the sidelines, as it were, for several years—spend about 21 out of 24 hours each day in bed, and have not been out in the car since Dee. 12, 193G, when I came home from the hospital where I spent 12 months out of 35—weak muscles." Such is the unfortunate information in a letter wTitten by Joe Menger, San .4.ntonio, Texas, to Tom Barry on the campus. Despite the state of his health, Joe retains the same in­tense interest in Notre Dame. Class­mates can reach him at 107 Catherine Court. 
Recently appointed committees to cany on the campaign against un­clean magazines in South Bend con­tain Tom Barry, on the committee to list the desirable and the undesir­able magazines; Paul Butler, '27, on the committee to plan future action; and Father Philip Schaerf, C.S.C., '31, local C.Y.O. director, on a com­mittee to x-eport on progress. 
192 6 Secretary: James A. Kenan. X27 N. Dearborn St., Chicaso, Illinois. 
Better days are daivning, thinks your secretary, Mr. Ronan. He says: 
"Mr. Dooley: 
"Success at last. Bill, in the form of a letter from Tom Burke, that hard-working Brooklyn barrister. I always told you Tom was a swell fel­low—now I'm certain of it. The ice is broken! The first of the far-flung members of the class of 1926 has crashed through with a letter. Let's hope more will follow. 
"Tom reports having had lunch with Bob Cahill, whom you will no doubt remember as our capable freshman class president 'way back in 1922. Bob is down on Wall Street, 
The Notre Dame Alumnus March- April 
and, aside from a few greying hairs about the temples, has changed very little. 
"Our New York correspondent fur­ther reports that Ed Fallon, Jim Dwyer, Nick Smith and Bill Reid are all practicing before the bar (in the law business, he means) in Brooklyn, and all are doing very well. Tom Sheridan and Doc Gelson are other classmates that Barrister Burke sees on occasion in the big town. Sheri­dan is with the Telephone Company. Ed Byrne, says Tom, is living up in Westchester and has not been seen for some time.^ Maybe Ed will re­port on his whereabouts in an early issue. 
"Now that we have a word from the East, how about a line or two from the South? Don Laskey, Aus­tin Hall, and others please take no­tice! 
"Just the other day we heard that one of the SjTacuse (New York) dailies carried a four-column picture of Les Lovier welcoming Harry Stuhldreher to upper New York state. Tell us more, Les. 
"Last week the Notre Dame Club of Chicago held its annual dinner-meeting and election. Among the '26 men present were John Tuohy, Joe Kigali, Herb Eggert, Frank Walsh and John Griffin. We told you something of the first three two months ago. Walsh is in the insur­ance and bonding business, and is going strong. Griffin is making quite a name for himself in the legal pro­fession. Dan Culhane (Boy Guid­ance, '26) was also in attendance. 
"That's all this time. Bill. Keep your eyes on the mail-box. During Lent the boys will have more eve­nings at home and no doubt will take their pens in hand and ^ve us a hand in concocting this monthly report, — we hope, we hope, we hope!" 
1927 Secretaries: Joseph M. Boland, Ath­
letic Office. Notre Dame, Ind.; Ed­

mund DeClerq, 7129 So. Parle Ave-, Chicago. Threatened by the prospect of more poetry unless they came through , the '27 correspondents "cracked." Here, therefore, is the Boland bundle of heavenly news for this month: 
"Seems as if that little 'pome' of the last issue got some action out of the brethren, and this month your scrivener has something to s c r i v about. And let there be no more snide remarks about the rhyming ability of this operator, since no claims for Kilmer-ish ability have ever been registered from this cor­ner. After that last effort, probably none ever will be. 
"At any rate, Tom Byrne cracked through from Cleveland, with word that Benny McAdams is managing the Atlantic Commission Company office in that city, (adv.) They teU me it's produce old Benneh is up to his neck in. Incidentally, Ben, Jr., is almost 18 months old and already is chasing Ben, Sr., around the house. 
"Jim Whelan, who used to crack pates against the scribe in prep-school days when he represented Villanova prep along \wth Jim Qainn, dropped in to the campus recently to arrange details for his own wed­ding—^how's that for efficiency? The event takes place at an.unannounced date in April, and we are led to be­lieve Mr. Whelan will take a day off for the occasion from his duties with the Portland Cement Association, for whom he travels the highways of In­diana day after day, from his pres­ent headquarters in Fort Wayne. 
"Joe O'Donnell, tha t iniquitous, ubiquitous politician who is partially responsible for the presence of ye scribe in this comer, got conscience-stricken recently and added informa­tion to the store for the month about Ed Ryan, who is in the insurance business with Jim Brennan, in Chi­cago, and who points the dangers that exist in matrimony to Mr. Whelan, above, by displaying marks of recovery from chicken-pox brought to him by one of his three offspring. Bill Corbett is still shuffling munici­pal bonds for a Chicago concern, and still commuting from his country estate in Glencoe, Illinois, ('country estate'by courtesy of Joe O'Donnell). Bob Stephan checked in to Joe sev­eral times this last year, still hand­some, smiling and evidently going places with U.S. Gypsum. Ray Mc-Clory and Bob Irminger are still hand-shaking and greeting as they go about their business in the fair citj' of Chicago. 
"The scrivener acted as a one-man expeditionary force to Indianapolis recently, and there collided with a number of '27 chappies and others from less-glorious years but whose presence brought pleasure. Jac k Glaska sat himself at his trusty desk to act the part of Indianapolis vice-president in charge of collecting stuff, and came up after hours' struggle with the folloTOng: Bill Holland rates first position, due to (Glaska speak­ing) number of offspring. He's with Bates Motor Transport (adv.) in In­dianapolis, and has two of his family already set for St. Mary's and one for N.D. Won't that one have a lot of company when he goes over to Sweetbriar-on-the-St.Joe to visit his sisters? 
"Tom Conroy is with the Acme Fast Freight, and has one to keep Bill Holland's company at St. Mary's and one to room with young Holland 
at N.D. B. X. Gremillion is in the Transmission Engineer's office of In­diana Bell — score for the Gremil. lions: St. Marjf's one; N.D., one. 
Carl Feske is putting Brother Cyp­prian'* precepts into effect for the accounting division of Indiana Bell; Bob Gavin is travelling for the con­struction department of the same out­fit; and W. S. (Skip) MacDonald is plant engineer, Evansville district, for Indiana Bell, with a 1954 half­back on the way up. Charley Riley, of the nimble wits and nimbler legs, (who is remembered in a not-so-fond way by Howard Jones of U.S.C.) is field auditor. Gross Income Tax di­vision of Indiana. (How do you like that? And j'e scrivener has been trying to figure those Hoosier blanks out all by himself). Tom Ruckle­shaus is operating a fleet of Red Cabs on the streets of his native Indianap­olis, and, if he's worried about my spelling of his name, we're even after that ride one of his jockeys gave me a week ago. Joe Dienhart is doing a very fine job at Cathedral High, handling all sports at that institution. 
"And from 703 Bonnie Brae, Elver Forest, Illinois, present address of Bill Halloran, said Mr. Halloran throws his weight around the column in the form of a letter in inimitable style. The first portion of the letter is deleted, since (blush, Boland!) it refers to the doggerel of last months in poetic prose such as only Halloran would perpetrate. However, here's the rest of the missive, in parts: 'Am with Sears, Eoebuck and Co., where I started in '28, trying to match wits with the 'other* qualitj' gas and elec­tric ranges in the nation. It is ab­sorbing work and holds, I hope, as­surance of a faily comfortable period to come in the day when the race has been run. 
"In the office with me is Bernie Leahy, who is attempting to learn the art of store merchandising as well as he learned to knife a good gain off tackle . . - The last trip I made through the Southwest I ran across Tommy Green, at Conroe, [spelling by Boland: why can't Green live in a spellable town ? J Texas, an oil town north of Houston. He still retains his versatility as evidenced by the fact that after graduating in Com­merce, he started Law and is now leading the oil men of Conroe through the mazes of legislation. In Dallas, I spent a few hours with Don Laskey, who had run over from Shreveport. Don is .married and do­ing very well with a gas company there. Jimmy Cowles is batting high, according to Don. In Wichita, Kan­sas, I had quite a reunion with Ed McKenna who is doing right well by himself, ranching. I spent a couple of days with Don Hennessy in Vicks­burk. He's married now, with two children. His charming wife, a na­tive of Natchez, has one of those yard-wide Southern drawl s that would have tickled Brother Cyprian's heart [That's Halloran speaking, Mrs, Hennessy!] Ran across Cyp 
March - April The Notre Dame Alumnus 163 
Sporl in New Orleans, and, in Mem­phis, spent a few hours with Bob and Troy Bonner, Austin Hall and Frenchy Dohogne. 
" 'One time down east I managed 
to get in a phone call to Joe Gart­
land. Chet McDonald was in the 
state, but couldn't get any actual 
dope on him. Joe, if you can man­
age to get his address I'll forgive 
you the poetry. [That's not nice, Bill; 
but McDonald had better write here, .as well as to you!] 
" 'Jack Hicok is another fro m whom I've heard nothing for years. As one might expect, the last meet­ing with him was consistent with his irrepressible nature. He called me at the office and I met him at the Congress Hotel where we had dinner and spent three enjoyable hours. As I was seeing him off at the station it occurred to me that the pace of the conversation had not permitted one very pertinent question. In response to the query 'what are you doing in Chicago (Jack's business is in Great Falls, Montana) ?' he exclaimed in his own original way 'Oh—I forgot to tell you; I'm due at Mayo's tomorrow for an operation. If I come through I'll send you a card.' I got the card, and with it the last word I've heard since.' 
"So endeth the Halloran excerpts. In vital statistics, Bill has three readying for Notre Dame, and one for St. Mary's . . . and he and his vriie have recovered from the loss of their two oldest children—a tragedy that brings forth the heai-tfelt sym­pathy of all his classmates, I know. 
"On a trip to attend the Chicago club election meeting, ye scribe was able to congratulate Frank McCurrie on his election to the presidency of the Chicago Notre Dame club; Ed Ryan was made secretary, and Mc-Clory, Ed McLaughlin, Butch Rogers, Ed McGnire et al. rooted our brilliant young prosecutor home. 
"And with that, ye scrivener will sign off. That's enough for the time being, and Dooley's mad at me any­how for that poetry. But let me warn you, men—^you'll get another if that dope doesn't keep pouring in. 
Adios. 
Joe Gartland is an active member of the Catholic Alumni Sodality of Boston, according to information from Jim Sanford, '15. D!ck Dunn, '18, is vice-president of the sodality this year and will be president next year. 
Al Doyle, head of the Speech De­partment in the University and an attorney in Mishawaka, is the new attorney for St. Joseph County. He succeeds Cliff Potts, '25, of South Bend. The change, on January 1, was occasioned by a change in the political make-up of the county com­missioners, who appoint the county attorney. 
Jim Vallely, a mining engineer in a copper mine at Kimberly, Nevada, stopped off for a campus visit on January 3, after a Christmas vaca­tion with the folks back in Pennsyl­vania. Jim had many interesting tales of his life in the great rugged places. 
Van Wallace had to be removed from his home at 3 A.M. at the height of the recent Michigan floods, according to word from Father John MacNamara, '97, a resident of St. Joseph's Sanitarium, Mt. Clemens, where Van was taken. Van's home was directly in the path of the water, which washed up into the first floor for three or four feet covering everything with mud and silt. Van didn't suffer any ill effects from the experience and, through Father Mac, he sends his kindest regards to all the boys. 
192 8 Secretary: Louis F. Buckley. Jliddle­tan, Wisconsin. 
TEN-YEAR REUNiON June 3, 4 and 5 
BULLETIN 

The local reunion committee of Boyle and Wagner, plus the Alumni Office team of Armstrong and Dooley, got together on March 4 for a prelimi­nax-y discussion of plans. It was defl­nitely agreed that the 10-year re­union party would be held on SAT­URDAY NIGHT immediately after the general alumni banquet; and it was tentatively agreed that the party would be held on the campus, prob­ably in the faculty dining room in the Dining Halls building. Further information, with all possible details, will be contained in the May ALUM­NUS. 
Hard at teaching his course in Personnel Administration, Buck took time out to send these notes: 
"Thank you. Dr. Frank Hagerty, for the contribution last month. No doubt, the M.D.'s in the class will make up for their failure to send Prank more dope by being present at the reunion in June. I hope that the engineers gave Louie Carr and John Fagan a little more co-operation than Prank had last month. 
"Ed McCIamon has been selected to represent the la^vyers in this col­umn for the next issue. Will the law men please drop Ed a line at once at 144 Tyler Street, Highland Park, Michigan, so he will have the neces­sary information to send in by April 15. 
"The following men hav e been appointed sectional class chairmen for the ten-year reunion for the states where there is a heavy '28 representation. We woul d like a report from each of them for the next issue, letting us know whom we can expect from his section of the country. Will you please drop a note to your sectional chairman, so he will be able to send in his report on who will be present. 
Jim Schocknessy, Ohio; Bob Kirby, Indiana; Dick PheUn, Illinois; Troy Bonner, Tennessee; Martin V. Cal­lagy. New York; Toney Ceres, New Jersey; Jack Doyle, Minnesota; Ed Freitas, California; John Fredrick, Michigan; Frank Holdampf, Wiscon­sin ; Bill Leahy, Missouri; Turk Mein­ert, Pennsylvania; Frank Reilly, Mas­sachusetts; John Robinson, Connect­icut. 
"We ^vill also be expecting a fur­ther report from the chairman of the local committee, Andy Boyle and Willard Wagner in the next issue. Let us know all about your program at that time, Andy and Wag. I must explain that Wag kindly consented to take over on the local committee when Burt Toepp found that a new job with the -Associates Investment Company would demand too much of his time. 
"The only news that the dog sleds were able to bring through this month was contained in a letter from Bob Kirby and a post card from Frank Kelly. Bob wrote from the Kirby Mortuary, Meridian at Nineteenth, Indianapolis, inquiring for Connie Ochoa's address, as he is planning a trip to Mexico. Bob wanted to know what a social leper could do to get some information on our forthcoming ten-year re-union. The only report that he gave was that he had four kids when he left home that morning 
— St. Mary's, three — Notre Dame, one. I believe bob held the record for having the largest family among the men back for the five-year re­union. Frank Kelly wrote from St. Petersburgh, Florida, where he was spending his honeymoon. Prank was married January 11 in the Log Chapel. Needless to say. Prank's praise of the Florida weather and Bob's plans for a trip to Mexico didn't make me feel any better in the zero temperature of Madison." 
Lou Carr writes to say that Buck's notice as to the '28 news for this ALUMNUS arrived on the day that his mother died. Unde r the circum­stances it was, of course, impossible for Lou to come through with any general stuff. He does promise, how­ever, that it will "take the impos­sible" to keep him away from the 10­year reunion and "I hope and think 
The Notre Dame Alumnus March- April 
that every '28 engineer should feel the same way." 
Lou has two daughters, one two and a half years old and the other six weeks old (at the time of his writ­ing). Pop himself is manager of the Coast Cities Coaches, Inc., a bus line running out of Asburj' Park, New Jersey. 
John Fagan engineered this potent dope for you: 
"Well, Louie, you asked for it, so here goes. I haven't seen a '28 engi­neer in the past five or six years, as I recall, and evidently the boys just don't ^\Tite letters. It can't be done nith a slide rule, you know. 
"Yours ti-uly has the Hartford Of­fice of the Clai-age Fan Company, a Kalamazoo, Michigan, concern, with Connecticut, Rhode Island and west-em Massachusetts as the territory. Also cover G.E. at Schenectady, but have met only one N.D. man there, John Huether, '22, who is on top of the pile in the Industrial Sales Divi­sion. Understand that 'Duke' Du­quette is also going places there. Charlie Topping, I believe, is also still there. Tom and Ray Bov, I un­derstand, were formerly with G.E. but their whereabouts now are a mysteiy to me. 
"That ten-year reunion hits me fine—haven't been out to the Bend since the day I lined up with the benedicts in 1930, the day of the Navy game and the dedication of the stadium. -A. fast trip that was, but made memorable by good old Bill Kelley and Eddie Bourke. Bill still resides there, and Eddie is a brew-master of note in Brooklyn. Ed and myself took a mud bath together at the last Ai-my game. Saw a few of the boj-s at that time, among them Dick Collins, Bill (Turk) Kelly and Larry Culliney. Lany was still un­married and, believe it or not, be­moaning the fact, if I remember right. It'll be good to see congenial 
Ernie Rieder again. Dutch was with 
Detroit Edison way back — don't know about now. Also hope Pearl Moore gets the urge to make it—^the old roommate did a real disappearing act. 
"These engineers surely keep out of sight and the newspapers — Herb McCabe, Adrian Lopez, Vie Fischer 
and George Conners at one time could be found around the metropol­itan area of New York. When I was in Detroit, again 'way back, that sec­tion of the countiy could account for 
Ernie Rieder, Al Davis, Rice Simonin, Art Schefaerle and Vince Stace. Al, 
I notice, has moved his base of oper­ations to Cleveland. Recent columns place Jerry Ludwig up i n his old home town of Grand Rapids, and Phil Lytle down Pittsburgh way. Jeny, I see, as well as Bill Tous­saint and Dick Phelan are doing their bit toward the swelling of future 
N.D. enrollment. I'm taking care of across the road — tn'o young ladies, one five years old and the latest five months old. Bob Bannon, from lat­est reports, is now a Jerseyite from old Kentuck. 
"Well, let's see if we can line a few of the boys up hereabouts. I may slip a little bit in my dates as to the proper class, but they will be close. A year one way or the other, this late in the game, can't make much difference and — didn't you say you were looking for copy? Tim Murphy is with the Federal Housing here, Frank Laria still likes the old home to'>\ii, and John Cianci stiU hands his hat down the road in New Britain. 
Frank Ahearn, with the local sheet, 
is riding high in the editorial game. Springfield politicos and friends of Bill Hurley gave Bill a rousing testi­monial pre\-ious to his recent mar­riage there. Yes sir, he's sweet Wil­liam now. 
"Johnny Sullivan is also in Spiing­
field and the same goes for John Waters. Joe Jachym and Tommy Ferriter are still in Westfield, Joe still playing a bit of good ball, and Tommy practicing medicine. Frank Kelly of Lee, Massachusetts, is a full-fledged embalmer and doing well. Where can Joe (Tige) Sullivan of Holyoke be located these days? Un­derstand Joe spent a couple of years studying medicine in Finance. Tommy Shea now lives in Manchester and is well satisfied at United Airci-aft here in Hartford. 
"Over Providence way Tom Collins is doing a good job with the Rhode Island Club and getting plentj' of support from Bob Powers, Leo Mc-Aloon and the boys The '28 chem­ists will remember Jim O'Connor, '27, of Springfield, who is now in Buffalo, still the chemist. Jim is maiTied and they recently became three. 
"Late reports say s that Eddie Bourke has transferred operations from Brooklyn to South Bend. Best of luck out there, Eddie." 
According to all the reliable polit­ical dope Bob Grant, prominent at­torney in South Bend, will be the Republican nominee for congressman from the third district of Indiana in the next election. 
CoiTections from Phalin foUov.-ing that recent volume: 1) Swede Schroe­der is not tied with Bob Kirby in the number of offspring; Swede has only one, while Kirby has four. 2) George Coury was not in the hospital when Howie ^^^•ote; he was on his wedding trip to Los Angeles. 
An article on refrigei-ants by An­thony Benning is contained in the latest issue of the Catalyzer, campus chemistiy publication. Sinc e his gi-aduation Tony has been in the Jackson laboratories of du Pont. 
192 9 Secretary: Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin Street, Indianapolis, Ind. 
Since — according to his story — he had been tightly tied up for sev­eral weeks with an important case, the old Juggler whip-cracker and present deputj' attorney general in Indiana sent along several letters from the boys. Here they are: 
Vic Hart says: "I hope that you will accept my apologies for being so late in answer­ing your letter. Your position as class secretaiy has always appealed to me as being a very thankless task. As a result of this feeling, I am glad to help you fill up spaces. 
"Here are the highlights. I went to Harvai'd Business School in the fall of 1930, where I roomed with 
Ralph Zimmerman, '29. In the spring of 1930 I bi'oke a leg and was laid up for a year; then back to Har\-ard and finished in 1932. I went to work immediately with Stevenson, Jordan and Harrison, and am still with them. 
"Over these past six years I have been located in New Yoi-k, St. Louis, Chicago, Cleveland, Indianapolis, At­lanta, and now, Nashville. I expect to make another change in a month or two—^probably Birmingham. 
"I have enjoyed all of this travel­ing, which is partly due to having no wife, no furniture, no dog. 
"Within the last two months I have run into Mickey McMahon and Bolts Crowley here in NashWlle; also saw Moon Mullins on my last trip to New Orleans. On my next ti-ip to Mem­phis I hope to see Dave Saxon. 
"Since our class has been out of school almos t nine years, there should be plenty of the boys coming thi-ough here on their way to and from Floiida vacations. I would cer­tainly appreciate a visit from anv of them." 
And from Charley Colton: 
"I apologize for not answering your letter sooner. I am greatly pleased to hear from you. I always watch the ALUJINUS for news of old '29 and 29U (ask Bill O'Connor). I had cards from several of the boys, including Jack Elder, Bob Tyler, Tom Ryan, yourself and others. 
"Now, a little about myself. I have been in the hotel and i-estaurant business since I was graduated. I am now assistant manager, here at the Universitj- Club in Boston . Among our members whom I see a lot are Art McManus, Bill Murphy, Joe Ryan, and Smoky Kelleher. I wish you would say 'hello' to Bill 
Krieg", Bill O'Connor, John Rocap, 
and others that you see. 
"Also tell Jim Armstrong he is by 

March - April The Notre Dame Alumnus 
far the best alumni secretary in the countiy! 
"Tell any of the boys from the Midwest landing in Boston to look me up." 
From Joe Jackym: "When I first looked at your letter, I was afraid that the Hoosier State had something on me. But what a pleasant surprise. Nice work, Joe, and my congi-atulations. 
"I got a kick out of your letter; and as soon as I finished it, I started to check up on some of the boys. With the help of John B. Sullivan, '29, in Springfield, I got some infor­mation. John is mari'ied — working for the State Unemployment Com­mission — and the father of a four­months-old boy. Met Bob Brennan at the Agawam race track the day I hit the double. Bob was playing the same combination and gave his tivo dollars to a friend to place it. Bob had his money all spent—too soon. His friend got to the window too late to lay the bet. Yes, Bob was afraid to speak to the wife. Brennan is a salesman for the Liberty Wholesalers of Springfield. He is living in Lenox. The last I knew. Bob had two chil­dren. 
"Jim Branahan is in New Mexico and in poor health. Here's wishing him luck. 
"Tom Ferriter, Westfield, Massa­chusetts, boy. Went to Taft's Medi­cal School and now practicing at home and doing all right. 
"Tom Shea, Chicopee lad, is in New Britain. Married a school teacher. I believe he is a salesman. Saw both of them at the Connecticut Valley Club's dance last June. He knows how to pick them. 
"Ed McCauley, Worcester. Ol d 'Tin Ear' we called him. Ed is in the gi-ocery business with his brother in Worcester. I was to meet him last Sunday, but he didn't show up. You see, I play basketball there Sundays. The McCauleys have one of the best markets in the citj-. He was at the Connecticut Valley dance in Hart­ford, also. 
"Ray Connors, of Badin Hall, is now a sports reporter in his home town, Gi-eat Barrington. Met him and his brother at the Notre Dame-Army game. 
"Met Dwight Moore. He's working for the state highway commission. Tom Murphy is man'ied and the last I heard was a beer salesman in Con­necticut. Ray Mulroney, of North Adams, is working for a construction company. 
"Tim Toomey, of Greenfield, is with the Royal Indemnity Insurance Co. of New York City. He was at the dance in Hartford. He brought his cousin along; she was veiy nice. 
John P. Burke is teaching in Clinton, Massachusetts. The other Burke is in politics and sells insurance. Snub-by Fagan was at the Connecticut Valley Club elections. 
"I saw many of the fellows at the last Universal Night celebration in Springfield. Bill Hurley, the presi­dent of the club, did the honors. We had films of the Notre Dame football games. We had about 80. Father Frank Quinlan, Paul Castner Foote Rule, John B. Shea, Art Parisien, Tim Murphy and yours tmly all said a few words. Plans were made for the dance. Joe Delria and John Cianci deserve a good work for the afi'air. 
"As for myself—not much to say. Playe d professional baseball with Wheeling, West Virginia, where I played against Leo Schrall, who was with Jeannette. Right across the river I met John Niemiec, Bull Polis­ki, Joe Sheeketski and Jim Harris of Bellaire, Ohio. Met Dave Barry in Clarksburg. Met Andy Sleigh and Red Edwards. I played at Evans­ville, Beaumont, Tylei-, and Wilkes-Barre. Always met somebody in each of the towns. While at Saranac Lake I met Cornelius Carey, who now is a judge. Worked for the A. and 
P. Co. in Springfield. Coached and played baseball and basketball for them. Then left them for the West­inghouse in East Spi-ingfield, but was laid off. Have had very good luck coaching semi - pro basketball and baseball. 
"Yes, I was married to Helen Schoenrock, from home, on October 4, last. Haven't missed a Notre Dame-Army game in the last four years, and don't expect to miss an­other one. -A-t present I am playing basketball in Worcester on Sundays. And refereeing takes up some of my evenings. You know, this is quite a basketball center. One of our boys, Eddie Sadowski, is doing all right out there this year. When Notre Dame plays in Albany we expect to give some kind of a gift. 
"Listen, Joe, if I mentioned all the lads I've met I'd never finish. I've missed some no doubt but not inten­tionally. I'll play detective for a while and will send you another letter or report later." 
Joseph Edwin Conboy, South Bend, is the new assistant adult probation officer in St. Joseph County, succeed­ing Loren Hess, '33, who resigned to take a position in the county welfare depai-tment. 
193 0 Secretary: Bernard \V. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth St., New Kensinston, Pa. 
Lou Stettler is now a member of the public accounting firm of Kay, Naegele and Stettler, 948 Union Trust Building, Cleveland. 
Jerry Parker, executive director of the Centre Club, New York. City, was a prominent figure in the large Cath­olic Press Exhibit held recently in the club. 

1931 Secretary: John Bergan. 828 E. Col-fox Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
Here is the typical Bergan contri-­bution: 
"'Twas a typical Irish wedding in Aliquippa, Pa., when Miss Wendy Kane married Dick O'Donnell on the first of February. Bagpipes, reels of the Emerald Isle and most of the Irish in eastern Pennsylvania were on hand at the ceremony. Dick is in the publicity department of the dem­ocratic party in Harrisburg. We cer­tainly ^vish this couple the best of luck. 
"Further news from the East brings the announcement of the en­gagement of Miss Marguerite Lyons of New Rochelle, New York, and genial Jim Kearney, the Chicago law book editor. This event will take place in the summer. Jim was a visi­tor in South Bend recently and re­newed many associations on the cam­pus. He revealed that he is unusual­ly busy these days with his teaching duties at Loyola and his law book work at Callaghan's. A wedding of early spring will be that Miss Kath­erine Eisenhauer and Walt Fhilipp in Philadelphia. 
"One of the outstanding events of the class this winter was the informal gathering of the class of the Chicago district in the home of Paul and Don O'Toole on February 21. Most of the members of the class were on hand and a pleasant evening of entertainment was enjoyed. Pau l O'Toole, Jim Doyle, Gil Seaman and Ben Oakes were in charge of the afi'air. 
"The classes of 1932 and 1933 were strongly represented as well as a goodly number of '31 men. Steve DriscoU was the only '30 man pres­ent. The others were: from '31, Frank Holland, Bill Taylor, Bill Gib­bons, Jim Kearney, Tom Coughlin, Ray Collins, Jack Schmit, Vince Ponic, Ray Collins, Bemie Thomp­son, Jim O'Brien, Don Partlan, Bob Pendergast, Bob Smith, Don O'Toole, John Crimmins, Gil Seaman, Gene Coyle, Eddie Ryan, Jim Doyle; from '32, Tighe Woods. Charley Nash, John Mulhem, Bud Groves, John Poynton, Phil Dunleavy, Paul O'Toole, Jim Lewis, John O'Shaugh­nessy, Vince Cavanaugh, Bob Gor­man, Joel Ostrander, Jim Downs, Bud Mortenson, Dick Roney, Jack Duffy, Tom Duffy, Ben Solvati, Dick Scha­vone, and a few others. 
"Bill Griffin has recently been ap­pointed head of the physical educa­tion department of the Chicago pub­lic schools, a grand job and a great fellow to fill it. Dave Rusk, happily married, is working under him in one 
The Notre Dame Alumnus March - April 
of the North Side schools. We also learn that our old friend, Bill O'Mal­ley, is now master-of-chancery in one of the Chicago courts. Tom Cannon, of Muncie, has recently announced his candidacy for prosecuting attor­ney of Delaware county, Indiana. He is the present deputy and we wish him lots of success in the May pri­mary. Henry Kopek is engaged in the laundry business with his father in Hamtramck, Michigan. Leo Cook, from nearby Niles, is with the de­partment of justice and is located in Detroit. 
"News from the west coast tells us that Tom Ashe is office manager of the Emsco Derrick and Equipment Company of Los Angeles, and was recently joined by his parents from Rochester. Romeo AUard is on the science facultj' of Loyola University. Norm Herwit is located in Los An­geles and is progressing in the pub­licity business. Little news has been heard from Matt Cullinan since his marriage but is still engaged in the vineyard and fruit growing, accord­ing to latest reports. 
"Gene Vallelee, lat e of Fort Wayne, is now managing a movie house on Chicago's North Side. Most all of the grievances and troubles of the oil operators of the Twin Cities now come before Joe Schroeder, who is agent and lobbyist for the oil oper­ators of his region in Minnesota. Jerry McKay, also of Minneapolis, earned a verj' fine trip to Mexico City late in January because of his activitj' in achie\'ing a membership in the 100 Point club of the National Cash Register Companj'. Mac is married and has a daughter. Jerry Ball is traveling six central Indiana counties in the interest of the Ohio Oil Company and is planning a trip to Mattoon, IHinois, early in the spring for a reunion -nith Paul Grant and his merrj^ mad gang. 
"Mars Condon, head clerk of the Hotel Morrison, Chicago, was recent­ly named winner of the 'most con­genial clerk' award by the Hotel Greeters Association. Frank McGreal has been transferred to the title di­vision of the Chicago Title and Trust Company. Joe Kearney is a sales­man for the Frankfort Distilleries out of Buffalo. Gene Coyle is now back in Chicago with the Internal Revenue division after some time spent in Washington. Smiling Bill Cbawgo is in the capital income di­vision of the same department and is expected to take a new job with the same department early in the sum­mer. Bill and the 'Missus' are still living in Aurora. 
"New addresses: Tim Benitz is now receiving his mail at 225 E. 35th Street, New York City. Tim is with the mortgage department of the state and manages to teach a little con­tract in one of the downtown hotels in his leisure. Bud Tuohy receives Uncle Sam's representatives at 204­14 42nd Street, Bayside, L.I., while Bob Pendergait has his own law of­fice at 1145 West Sheridan Road, Chicago. 
"Jim Keating, deputy prosecuting attorney of St. Joseph county, has tried many of the important cases before the grand jury in South Bend during the winter term. John Rober­to, the transplanted New Englander, is now city attorney of Gary, Indi­ana. Joe Munizzo is in the office of the attorney general of the state of Illinois at IGO North LaSalle St., Chicago. 
"Had an enjoyable visi t with Frank Kersjes following the Pitt bas­ketball game and Frank is now sales manager for the Glidden Paint Com­pany in Alichigan and football coach at Mount Pleasant College. Frank is still single and would enjoy hearing from some of the old gang in Sorin. 
"Plans are now under way for a dinner meeting of all members of the class in the vicinity of South Bend on Monday evening, March 21, in the Columbia Athletic .club in South Bend. '31 men in northern Indiana and southern Michigan are cordially invited to attend." 
193 2 Secretary: Herbert Giorgio, 9005 ISSth St. Hollis. L. I., New York. 
Rapid Fire Giorgio sends the fol­lowing notes: 
"John Colville is engaged to Miss Josephine Ford of Mount Vernon, New York. Joe Carey is the proud father of a baby girl. John Cranes is married and living in Winona, Minnesota. Smoky Coyne is still the big, bad boy of Pittsburgh. John Matousek is married to Frank Den­ney's sister, Marybelle. 
"Jerry Wise, ex. '32, is married and is the father of a happy houseful. Jim Gleason is still the boss of Me­nominee. Bill Newbold is in Wash­ington, D. C, with Tom McKevitt and Clay Johnson. John Ross was admitted to the bar (legal) in New York. Frank Mumame (Waterbury) is married, we believe. Bill Slader is close to the altar. 
"Tom Burns is teaching in Syra­cuse. Comie Hayes' candid camera in June failed to operate. Al Mc-Eachem and Arnold Klein are mar­ried. Bill Murphy is practicing law in New Jersey. Joe Snitzer is play­ing golf in Florida. Norb Crowe, I believe, is in Washington, D. C. 
Frank Donalty is the father of two. Bill Harrington is the same. Terry Dillon is married to Fred Snite'* sister. Arch Donoghue was at the wedding. Mike Crawford is in­terning in Cleveland. My brother, Doug, is interning in Jamaica, as is George Seelinger. Red Jackson is interning at St. John's Hospital, New York. 
Bob Glaser may now be addressed as Dr. Robert E. Glaser, Ball Memor­ial Hospital, Muncie, Indiana. 

John Murphy writes to say that he was married on October 2 in St. Rose Church, Detroit, "to a wonderful Catholic girl." John and his wife are residing at 1205 Lemay Avenue, De­troit. Father Anthony Weber, C.S.C, and John got together for a good visit before Father left for India. 
1933 Secretary: Donald Wise. 110 Pleasant St.. Joliet. m. 
FIVE-YEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 
BULLETIN 

Local Chairman Paul Boehm as­sembled the available members of the local committee for a meeting on ar­rangements the night of March 3. Seldom has a committee on reunion gone into serious training for the event at such an early stage. The editor of the ALVMNVS was there in person and predicts a record-break­ing program for the lucky members of the Class who are back for the First Five. Friday night was decided upon as best for the Class Party, be­ginning around 8:30, to allow the nearby precincts to report, with a buffet supper to wind it up. There are a lot of details—^watch the May issue—but the early word is PLAN TO BE IN FRIDAY, JUNE 3. 
Charles Sheedy, C.S.C, has fin­ished his year of novitiate and is now enrolled in the University for gradu­ate work while residing in Moreau Seminary. 
Chuck Jaskwhich, since his gradu­ation coach at Holy Cross College in New Orleans, was recently named backfield coach at the University of Mississippi, as assistant to Harry Mebre, head coach and athletic di­rector. 
Secretary Don Wise is all hopped up about the reunion and, with Paul Boehm, the local chairman, and the Alumni Office, he is working hard on the plans. Here is an excerpt from his most recent letter: 
"The sectional clas s chairman which I hereby appoint are: New York, Jack Finneran; Chicago, Pat Crowley; Pacific Coast, Leo Cum­mings and Laurie Vejar, co-chair­men; Southern, Jules de la Vergne. These men can appoint and work with anyone they desire. Whether or not the reunion is a success de­pends entirely upon the number of the class members that attend, and, March - April 
if each of the chairmen above named, will contact members from the vari­ous cities in their locality, we are sure to have a representative group." 
2934 Secretary: James Moscow. 2320 N. Lawndale Ave.. Ghicaco, HI. Localman Bob Cahill reports that Jack Egan was on the campus and in South Bend to spend part of his win­ter vacation. Jack is assistant traffic manager of a large New York City department store. 
Phil Ott is now grand knight of the Michigan City, Indiana, Knights of Columbus. 
Phil Trexler will teach bacteriol­ogy at Harvard and do research there next year, according to a re­cent announcement by James Bryant Conant, president of Harvard. Phil has been associated with Professor Reyniers in bacteriology research at Notre Dame. 
Hughie Devore, assistant coac h and scout under Jim Crowley at Fordham for three years, was recent­ly appointed head football coach at Providence College , Providence, Rhode Island. 
More and more the reports come 

from Hollywood that Nick Lukats is 
heading toward stardom. His latest 
releases are (or will be) "Start 
Cheering," in which he has a comedy 
role, and "Campus Murder Mystery," 
in which he has the juvenile lead. 
Laurie Vejar is working as a film editor for M.G.M. alongside Cotton Warburton, the former Southern Cal quarterback. 
1935 Secretary: Franklyn C. Hochi^itcr, 11 Brunswick Blvd.. Buffalo. N. Y. 
That Buffalo boy is here again— 

all loaded up with dope, as usual. 
He says: 
"Here we are again and this time with a little more to offer. The gang came through with a few letters for this trip to the press, and your scribe will do the best he can to take the chatter more interesting as a result of the 'awakening.' 
"First of all an apology to Tom LaLonde for not using his very fine dope last month. It came in the day after the column left our hands, Tom, and as a result we had to save it for this number. But we are trying to do it justice at the moment. 
"Before we get into the month's key-holing we think it proper that a few official notations should be made about the contents of the 'society column' of our last issue. Felicita­tions are in order for Bob Van Lahr, ex. '35, who took to himself a bride in Montrose, California, on January 
25. Lots of luck. Bob, and may all your male offspring come South Bend-ward. 
"Then too, we read that Bob Rog­

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ers finally asked Jean Detwiller the question. Knowing Jean from our year in the 'big town,' we can vouch for Bob's choice. Here's to a short engagement and a place in the 'mar­riages' soon. 
"The class of '35 herewith extends 

to Father Raymond Clancy, C.S.C., 
profound condolences in his bereave­ment on the death of his father. It's been a long time since we've seen Father Clancy, but as '35ers gather here and there they often talk of the history professor who stirred us as green Prosh. 
"For some time now we have been going to mention a couple of our crowd who have 'gone west' to attain success. 'Bud' Tombragel has been out in Hollywood for a little over a year reading and commenting upon movie scripts. 
"A short while ago Bud's sidekick. Bill Steis, joined him out in sunny California. What he is doing out on the coast we do not as yet know, but sui-mise it is in a kindred line of en­deavor. May we anticipate a veri­fication. Bill? 
"And now let us turn to the docu­ment received from the 'North Mich­igan Club for Waj-ward Youth,' That was the terminology tha t friend 'King' applied to his abode. As you will remember, Tom is living out in 
Chi with George Demetrio, of the 
Palmer House promotion staff, and Bob Byrnes. Thanks for the swell material, gang—you've been depend­able for three years, and the stuff grows better every letter. 
"Bob had seen Fred Brookmeyer about the streets. Fred is complet-" ing his last year of law at DePaul. We had heard that you were gather­ing legal pearls out there, Fred. Hope they prove gems of rare value. 
"Our Chicago barrister, Tony Sco­laro, has succeeded in cracking the Illinois Bar, and at the present writ­ing is busying himself in making contacts in the 'Windy City.' 
"Of Jim Krafthafer we learn little, outside of the fact that he is still lo­cated in Wilmette, a Chicago suburb. How about letting us in on your ti-ade, Jim? 
"Fi-iend 'Bobbin' Byrnes continues to have as his associate at A, C. Al­lyn, investment bankers, none other than smiling and handsome Jim Howard. 
"George Beltemacchi lives in the same apartment building as do the three Michigan Boulevard youths, and is employed by an architectural firm in the loop. 
Comes word that 'Duke' Walters and Tom Leonard are 'painting the town red' for Sherwin Williams in Chi. 
"Here is some good news about Tom Thompson. Tom has returned to his home in Detroit from the Uni­versity Hospital at Ann Arbor and is very much improved. Ifice going, Tommie—here is to a return to the books next term. 

"The mid-western boy who went south—Ray Keating—was in Chi on a visit a short while back and dropped in on Tom. Ray, since his exodus to the southland, has attached himself'to an oil company in Hous­ton, Texas, in the auditing depart­ment. 
"Singing John Ryan dropped in the Palmer House to see George and informed him that at the moment he is taking lessons in voice culture. We'll be hearing big things from 'long John' yet. 
"Our dapper sophomore prexie — Bus Breen—^is wowing 'em at North­western Law School and will carry away his sheepskin at the end of this year. Predictions on Bus—100%! 
"Quoting Tom on John Burke we have the following: 'John comes into Chi regularly from Milwaukee for his South Side visits and we've had some grand evenings together. He finished law at Marquette this June.' 
"It's been a while since we heard about the Corrigan twins, Jim and John. But here is the latest—Jim Corrigan is working in Milwaukee, while brother John Corrigan is in Quincy, Massachusetts. How about a line from you two birds to let us know what the occupation is? 
Evidently this shoe business that LaLonde is in takes him on eastern jaunts for he tells us that he saw Art Carey in his room at Harvard a couple months ago. Again to quote —there sat a big Xervax hair-grow­ing machine in the comer, but Art looked—well, I guess no balder.' 
"To recall a quotation of our's a couple years ago—'The carrot-topped news hound of the Neivs in New York—Bill Tourney—^is still turning out his daily stint for the metropoli­tan newspaper. We learn that Bill has been doing the better night spots of the town lately with a charming damsel from Sioux City, Iowa. Won­der who that could have been? 
"Returning to the shores of Lake Michigan and Chicago, it come s through that Bob 'Shanty* Hogan, ex. '35, is with the T.W.A. in the Palmer House ofSce. 
"For those of us who remember Eddie Callahan, ex. '35, from our freshman year, it might be interest­ing to observe that he is now finish­ing up at Iowa University in Iowa City. 
"It's been a long time since we heard from Jack Shodron, hut the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus March - April 
latest info is that Jack is now back in Peoria with the Caterpillar outfit. How about a note one day. Jack? 
"Remember Harold May, ex. '35, the swordsman? Well, he is also in Peoria. WTien last seen, Hal was about a dangerous job and requested no publicity as to its character. We'll keep your confidence, Hal. 
"The dairj- maids of Wisconsin still have their Jim O'Meara. Jim continues with the Dairy Equipment Company out there, but took a little time off to visit the Chicago boys, recently. 
"Fran Schlueter has been seen at Mass at the Cathedral in Chi, but it was impossible to have a word with him, says Tom. 
"International HaiTester has come through for Bob Scott and has re­warded worthy efforts with a consid­ei-able promotion. That's the old stuff, Bob—^keep 'em on their toes! 
"About 'dapper' Bill Miller we have heard nothing, Tom, except for what we sent through last month— our chat in the Statler garage at an 

•early morning hour Christmas. We would suggest that you do -write his Lockport address and pray for a re­sponse. 
"The Chicago triplets e.x-tend a hearty invitation to all '35ers and any other strolling Notre Dame men to •I'isit them for a night (or 10) lodging at 849 Michigan Avenue, The phone number is Superior 8186. If no answer, call George at the Palmer House. 
"Just a few days ago we received a real surprise—a long and healthy missive from Bob Maher down Wash­ington way. Thanks a million. Bob, for coming through so well for our feeble task here in the Queen Cit\-. You have given us new hope in the gang. You were about a month off on the natal day as it comes Januar>­
5. But better late than never! Thanks, anJ^vay! 

"Bob is now in his third year of medicine at George Washington Med­ical School in the nation's capital. And, says Bob, 'all the rumors to the effect that med school is tough are true—^but I like the work and am getting along i-ather decently.' Nice going. Bob. We had you picked for a white gown and mask way back there in freshman days, when you were woriying about Doc Just's in­sects. 
"Doctor Maher received some cor­respondence Christmas time from several far points. One was a letter from Manila, and the other a card from Hong Kong. The senders? None other than the Dillon brothers. Jim Dillon and his brother Bill, '36, who are attending Pitt Law School, have taken a year off from their studies and are working as deck hands on a 'round-the-world freight­er. Some vacation, we'll say—but it's great stuff if you can get it! 
."Frank Sinnott stopped off in 
Washington to see Bob the first week in Februaiy. Fi-ank was on his way to Florida to do a little vacationing. Bob urates that they had a real gab­fest over a mess of soft shell crabs. A post card later in the month in­formed Bob that the lucky Sinnott offspring was returning to New York via boat, auto et al. Some people get . all the breaks! What are you doing now, Frank? How about a line or t^vo? 
"And here comes some dope about fi-iend John Stecker, ex. '35. You all remember the blond master of the scalpel, who stayed with us through the junior chapter of our campus life. John is now completing his medical course at St. Louis University, and he mil interne at Mercy Hospital in Pittsburgh. Nice going, John—^lots of luck in the profession! 
"Bob was one of those fortunate individuals who danced the night of the President's Birthday Ball. There he saw A] Loritscb for a few mo­ments. Al continues on Uncle Sam's payroll in the capital. 

"Writes Bob, 'Matt Brown, ex. '35, is here in town too. Charlie Hill is still battling the medical monsters at Georgetown. I see him at 12:30 Mass at St. Augustus' occasionally. Haven't 
bumped into Rowan or Henneberger 
yet this year.' 
"The Arkansas flash—'Arky' Fair­head—and Orland Yates are reported as no longer in the capital. Bob says he believes they have headed back into the west. Orland comes from Hannibal, Missouri, you know. 
"Bill Murtha continues his sojourn in Washington. We do not know what he is doing at the moment. How about letting us know. Bill ? 
"While home at Christmas Bob went to the Pittsburgh Club's holi­day dance on New Year's Night, but he says that he was the only '35er in the place. A^ot even faithful Bill Lord was there. One of our ex's, Paul Lesko, was among the crowd, however. 
"Quote further — 'Congratulations Bobby Rogers .. . I knew Jean would land you . . . Incidentally I wish 
Charlie Bragg and Danny Fox Would 
remember they owe me a letter.' 
"As a last note of interest. Bob tells us that Vince Gorman is reputed to be in Washington to start the med­ical course at some institution down there. Quite a jump from pre\'ious yearnings, Vince, but hei-e's to vou, kid! 
"For those interested '35ers, Bob resides at 1513 "0 " Street, N.W., 
Washington, D. C. How about a few of you embryo surgeons dropping a fellow medic a line? 
"We cannot neglect a terse but in­teresting letter from our ex. bed­fellow 'Pre-xie' Proctor. Nice going, Tom. Even if we don't write, we still love you and enjoy your letters. Thanks for the info, kid! 
"Tom, as we all know, is absorbing the final legal wisdom that Notre Dame Law School can produce in its third and last year. 
"Writes friend Tom—'Leo Hanlon is still about the campus, as are Verbanc and Kranzfelder . . . John Jordan was down for the Pitt basket­ball game and also the wedding of Fred Mundee.' 
"Tom also imparts the valuable info that the Polish Ambassador of Goodwill — Arthur Lucius Joseph Bernard Korzeneski — is in Florida recuperating from some very tough law exams. What a tough time the idle rich have! 

"Before we close our monthly chatter we want to express a word of cheer to Father Farley, C.S.C., who had a leg amputated at Mayo Brothers this month, on the 10th, to be exact. Let's all offer a few prayers for the 'grand gentleman' that he may have a speedy recovery. What would Sorin be without 'Hi ya, boy?' 
"We've got two more issues com­ing up this year, gang. What do you say to a bang up finis to this year's wliisperings? May will be the next number and really our last opportun­itj' to come through, as June is left largely for Commencement. We'll be looking for a desk full of letters." 
1936 Secretary: John Moran. 61 E. 95th St., Apt. 2, New York City, 
Here's that Moran man again: 

"The blusteiy March winds may blow and blow, but they have unfor­tunately blown little class news into your secretaiT's mail box for this issue. So—the column will, neces­sarily, be i-ather brief, I trust that the coming of spring will thaw some of our more frozen brethren, at least enough to drag out the pen and ink for a short note, 
"Around New York the biggest alumni gathering of the past few months was for the N,Y,U, - Notre Dame basketball game in Madison Square Garden on Februarj' 25, The score, 50-38, clearly indicated Notre Dame's superiority. The Garden was sold out before game time, thus proving that Notre Dame is still the favorite 'son' of New York's sports loving populace, 
"Jim Kirby, my brother and I saw the game from up near the i-afters, Jim is still doing accounting work in New York, with an occasional as­
March - April The Notre Dame Alumnus 169 
signment that takes him up to Con­necticut. On the v,-ay out we bumped into Joe Donnino who has heen un­reported these many months though he lives in Jamaica, Long Island. Joe was for a time working as a director of playgrounds, but at the present time he is seeking another opening. Also met Andy Hufnagel in front of the Garden, but soon lost him in the big crowd. 
"At Ross' Tavern, we saw Charley Clark, still studying at Fordham Law each night, Al Carey and Walt Ma­tusevich. A larger representation from '35 included John Donovan, also at Fordham Law, Gerry Doyle, still at the McAlpin and studying art in his spare time, Vince Hogan, Frank Palmisani, Cliff Welih, and of course, the genial proprietor, Jim Ross, from the class of '34. 
"Later, at the Notre Dame gather­ing at Centre Club, Joe Wade in­formed me that he is with the Stand­ard Oil Co. of New Jersey, in the Bay\%'ay plant, where he is engaged in chemical research work. Joe stated that Julie Rocca is also with the same firm and is doing an excellent job in connection with the production of one of the company by-products. 
"Also at the Centre Club were Bill Gillespie, '36, Jack Gillespie, '37, who is still doing his daily stint for the two hometown papers in New Jersey, Jim McDevitt, '35, Sig SIus­zka, '35, and Bill Kennedy, another Scholastic scribe, who is on the staff of one of the Long Island papei-s. 
"The mailman usually rings twice —if the saying is true. Howevei', this month he rang only once, with a letter from Mickey Dendler. Mickey is planning on attending Commence­ment this year, provided the family gets a new car. I'll let you know later whether I can get away at that time, Mickey. 
"And that winds up this short col­umn.- Your secretarj- is spending some of his evenings each week seek­ing further knowledge at the College of the City of New York. However, that still leaves some time to write a longer column—^provided some of you drag out the stationery and pen me a few lines. Alphabetically, here are a few who haven't been heard from since the great flood: Neil Har­nett, Tom Bott, Chuck Boyle, Jim Burke, George Cannon , George Carey, Nick Casillo, Sonny Church, Sal Commissa, Norman Conley, Louie Crystal, V i n n i e Curran, and Leo Cusbing. If any of the above read this, how about a short line or two?" 
Here's a note from Professor Louis Buckley, who is residing in Middle­ton, Wisconsin, while doing graduate work at the TJniversitj- of Wisconsin: 
"I recently purchased a used copy of a book on business cycles in Madi­son. Much to my surprise I found the book had belonged to John Brit-ton, 353 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana, at one time. It also con­tained a copy of Mr. Apodaca's exam in Business Cycles given in 1936. I happened to be writing to Professor Apodaca, so I sent the exam on to him in Washington, D. C." 
Your pal Lechner, the campus noter, is just about the biggest Cath­olic Youth around here now. He was recently elected first head of the Deanery Youth Council and was a delegate to the Diocesan Youth Coun­cil in Fort Wayne. 
193 7 Secretary: Paul Foley, -154 .\ubum Ave., Apt. 208. Pontiac, MichiKan. 
Professor Loui s Buckley, Middleton, Wisconsin, is partic­ularly eager to hear from those economics majors who took the civil service examination for junior social science analyst. Will thos e concerned please write to the Professor at once to report upon the gi-ades re­ceived ? 
Charlie Coy sends this fine stuff: 

"Perhaps you would like to have a little news from a part of the coun­try which has heretofore been un­mentioned in your personals of the class of '37. I'm speaking now of this smoky, foggy city of St. Louis. 
"Several of the pre-meds have drifted down here last fall from all parts of the countiy to join the butchei-s association of St. Louis University. Among the most notable, perhaps, is Sare Lanzafame (the boy with the mustache.) Sare still thinks Rochester, New York, is the only place to live, and can't figure out himself why he came here. The studies seem to be getting him down somewhat .. . he has dwindled down to a mere 260 pounds, only a skele­ton of his former self. Sammy Dileo took a room right next to Sare's, but I think Sare is sore at Sammy be­cause he won't let him go to bed until after nine. 
"Then we have those ex-roomies of .A.lumni Hall, Tom Kelly and Bill Bailey. Tom is still bragging about what a wonderful climate California is, and thinks eveiybody should go out there to live, but he hasn't been there enough in the last few years to know any more about it than we do. 
"I was so impressed with that in­surance pamphlet that Jack Hurley sent out to his fellow graduates that he almost had me sold. But I caught myself just in time by remembering that I am also selling insurance, so why should I buy from him? How­ever, I think Jack's idea is a good one, and maybe you can give Jack and me a little free advertising once in a while." 
Having survived the local floods and helped put over the local Golden Gloves bouts, the.Pride of Pontiac emerges with this: 
"Might as well break out the old collection of street car transfers and inscribe the current notes thereon— because the present crop is exceed­ingly slim. The last six weeks have brought little in the way of mail in­formation, grapevine rumblings or little jail birds with dope on the lads. 
"Possibly the fact that this depart­ment has packed up its sleeping bag, pancho, two cans of hominy grits and a copy of 'The Bobbsey Twins' to move to another apartment may have slowed up the mails. But careful check at the old address along with practically microscopic glances into the new mail box have been well nigh fruitless. Of course, we hate to be in the position of belittling the faithful coiTespondents, but the info really has come in a mighty thin trickle— practically a drip. But the new de­partmental address is at the top (un­less the composing room is moving equipment around again) and we really expect a better break in the next six weeks. In fact we are going to go into the direct mail advertising racket and personally solicit those reluctant manuscripts — that is, if a present very complicated scheme comes to pass. But in any event, we guarantee you'll hear from this de­partment before verj' long. So there. 
"While we can't spend too much time bemoaning the lack of mail, we are heartily grateful for one note that slid in past the censors. This one fills an aching void that has been throbbing for lo! these many moons. In short we have right here at hand a real live letter from Delancey Davis (not a facsimile, but the real McCoy). In bold Spencerian, typical of his inner fire, Delancey lets down his back hair and confides that he is still in Schenectady (where German comedians come from) and is gain­fully employed by some unsuspecting firm. I quote: 'Frankly I'm just drawing salar y down this way.' (Note to employer: This is all in fun). 
"Delancey's store of personal squibs are about as lavish as his en­ergies, but he did tell of two of the boys. 
"Larry Weiss, ex. of Walsh, is in Schenectady with Genei-al Electric and is reported doing right well for himself in spite of the handicap of the area. Al Castineira is also in Schenectady—^with GE—as this mag said in the February issue. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus March- April 
"Ever faithful to his trust is John Austin Gillespie, of the Westfield, New Jersey, Gillespies. (That guy's always in this column). But then, John is one of the regular writers whose letters pop in with a high, hard hop. Jack didn't go into the Win­chell vein half as much as we had hoped. But then he has two or three newspaper spots to fret about and when he picks up his vacuum bottle and lunch box at the whistle blast— well, enough is just enough we sup­pose. 
"John McGurl, we are given to understand, is attended Penn Law School—which seems a terrible waste for the best left hand in the busi­ness. McGurl, we are told, has made a habit of being the big bad wolf amongst the hardhitters of the area with that double - barreled Bengal sweater, a terrific scowl and bi-focal lenses. But he did have a date with a Georgian Court girl from Trenton for a dance in Hainfield, New Jersey, not so long ago. Georgian Court—it does sound aristocratic! And Plain­field! Well — we're simply floored, that's all. 
"We are told that there was a clandestine reunion of some of the boys at the Penn basketball game. Among those present, in full regalia, including sword and baldric, were 
'Cousin Joe' O'Neill, and John Byrne. 
We are ^ven to understand that O'Neill is also down at Penn doing something or other besides singing a down-east tenor. We last saw O'Neill leaving Chicago in a phaeton bound for Eagle River, Wisconsin, amidst a flurry of handkerchief waving from an adjoining Y.W.C.A. structure in Chicago's near North Side. Those were the daze. 
"Byrne, running true to tradi­tion that holds with an iron hand, is in Phoenixville, land of Snuggles and Quakers. 
"From still another precinct comes word that Joe Moore, the phy-ed Moore, was in the vicinity of the Penn game and did some didoes or other. These things are just a mite distorted we feel, but Joe was there and that's a victorj- for the Penn game. 
"We shall be forced to admit that beyond these very few names we have little documentary evidence. But there are rumors—sa^'ior of the dull day. 
"We have heard that 'Hungry John' Ullman is still in Detroit. We are but a mashie shot from there, but somehow our mocassined tracks rare­ly cross. No word has been heard in many, many moons, of Joe Gallagher, he who falls through windows—^but he sur\'ives, we know. 
"We understand that George Bon­field is living at the old stamping ground — Lawson Y.M.C.A. (in the shade of Chicago's gold coast and North Clark Street). What fii-m George is connected with is some­thing of a mysterj- to us, but we hear everything is decidedly rosy. 
"At the same spot, when last heard from, was Tony Mazziotti, who prob­ably belongs in some other yearly chronicle. 
"No recent word has trickled thi-ough of Bob McCain who, when last heard from, was holding forth on the Chicago Herald-Examiner. 
"There are many for whom we have sent out editorial feelers with but scant success—^just a few: Vince Hartnett, who must be east of the Alleghanies somewhere unless he's sold his ancestrj' short [He's doing graduate work at Notre Dame.— Eds.]; Bill Sehlig, who's probably reading training camp news or wag­ging some new golf clubs; Eddie Gannon, the trickster, all those vows of letters, undjang affection and oaths in blood — mere empty shells, they were. We heard of Eddie through 'Rocky' Riley of the Youngs­town Vindicator, but then the line stopped, the messages wabbled off— and for all we know Gannon has grown a red beard and is holding forth in some cave, with that trick camel hair overcoat; Gene Ling, who must be president of something by now; Rick Gillis, undoubtedly a rank­ing sage in Camp Hill, Pennsylvania, after a year with Emil Peter; 'Skip' Cormier, we heard something about 'Skip' but it has long since slipped our mind—^which may not be all for the bad at that, at least as .far as 'Skip' is concerned. 
"By now it should be obvious that there's no end to such a technique. We could ramble along and eventual­ly work in a whole mess of names, and maybe even fill these columns without your doggone assistance. But we just threw together a batch of popcorn balls, so it's off to the couch with a good copy of 'Uncle Wiggley at the Bam Dance.' 
LATER 
"Comes winging in from Scranton, Pennsylvania, a long note from 'Col­lege Parade' Tony O'Boyle and re­plete with news. 'Tony' himself, the old columnist, spent a summer after graduation in the exotically romantic role of life guard at an unnamed beach. But falling from the roman­tic to the somewhat rheumatic, Tony went into politics, happily on the Democratic Donkey's side, and is at the moment puffing long cheroots while waiting for a spot in govern­ment service. Something to do with th e Unemployment Compensation outfit which should prove an interest­ing item to some of the 1937 grads. See Tony for relief checks, milk oi-ders and a bushel of coal. 
"Among the bits of information from the Scranton scribe is that Wil­liam Hume Fallon is with the Metro­politan Life Insurance Company, as an investigator. What a spot for the Fallon charm! We take it Fallon will change rackets in the spring when tennis season rolls around. 
"Dame Rumor gets a workout in trying to locate Joe Engr'ish. other­wise known as 'Smiley Joe.' One school of thought has it that Joe has signed up with the MaryknoU Mis­sionary Fathers. It would be a dis­tinct gain for the Fathers, we claim. 
"Straight from the feed bag comes word of that lost soul, wit and bon vivant of the Journalism Department, one John 'Zeke' Cackley. He was spotted at the north end of a south­bound squin-el rifle about eighty rod out of Ronceverte, West Virginia. But Zeke has gone bright-light on the lads and is repoited swinging a wicked fizz bottle in the local soda bar. In short—a soda jerker. This brings a subtle pang, we must admit. To thin k of Zeke's untrammeled spirit shackeled to the tune of a Double Chocolate Paradise Delight Nut Sundae with cashews—or even without cashews. Cackley is also court news reporter (down in the child mai'riage), belt and manager of a local basketball team. Heh-heh. 
"Jim O'Donnell is holding down the hot comer in the Ivy loop—stud­ying law at Harvard—or at least he was three months ago. Maybe they got waivei-s on him. 
Comes at last the long sought word from Cy Stroker—still keeping track of shipping out of one of the Gotham spots. Probably something exotic and foreign like pig iron, or manganese or bananas. But we are glad to be hear of Cy and hope his sparkling tenor is still smooth as deep blue velvet. 
"Vince McCooIa, the old smoothie, is an English instructor at Dupont, Pennsylvania — which should offer plenty of room for the up-and-com­ing gi^ammarian. 
"Bill 'Leftj'' Jordan, is still under the Golden Dome and six o'clock bells, waiting patiently for that Mas­ter's degree in education. Well, we didn't stay a Bachelor long—so may­be a Master's is a good idea. 
"We forget to mention that O'Boyle is treasurer of something or other connected with alumni in the coal belt — anyway we didn't read further than: Assets—$9.25; liabili­ties—?80. That life saving job should come in handy." 

March - April The Notre Dame Alumnus 
TRI-CITIES CLUB 
(Continued from Pncc 155) 

of good fortune in the past year, since on May 3, 1937 he was ap­pointed city attorney in the city of Rock Island, and in July, 1937, "middle-aisled it" with a very lovely young lady from Moline. Leo and his wife were on the campus on their honeymoon trip. 
Hayes Murphy and Mrs. Murphy welcomed, on November 6, 1937, a son, Patrick Murphy, and Mr. and Mi's. Ed Meagher welcomed a daugh­ter, Ann, on December 9, 1937. 
Misfortune visited the family of the ^vriter on February 11, when his wife's father, George F. Volz, died. 
President George Uhlmeyer has appointed a nominating committee composed of John McDonnell, Wells Robison, and Vance Uhlmeyer for the purpose of nominating officers for the ensuing year. As has been our pi-actice, the new officers will take charge of the Universal Notre Dame Night program, which this year we are planning to have in the form of a dinner party for the members and their wives, to be closed with a broadcast over station WHBF of a 
N.D. skit as secured from the cam­pus, and talks by members of the Tri-City oi-ganization. We have found this type of appeal to be very good and have received considerable re­sponse from outsiders who have heard the program. We will also be on hand Universal Night to listen to the national program. 
G. W. Vander Vennet. 

TRIPLE CITIES (New York 
John Donnelly, '3-1. 37 WashinKton Street, Binehomton, President: John Murphy, '35. 43 Kneeland Ave., Binghamton, Secretarj-. 
TRI-STATE (Ind.-Ill.-Ky.) 
E. Brown Miller. '24, Southern Commercial Corp., Citizens Bank Bids., Evansville. Ind., President: Dr. \Vm. J. Endress, '23. 301 Grant Street, Evansville, Ind., Secretary. 
TUCSON, ARIZONA Vincent Henseshach, ex. '27. 1710 E. 2nd St.. Tucson, President: Ted A. Witz, ex. '29, Box 628, Tucson. Secretary. 
A large Universal Notre Dame Night is planned for the Tucson club, according to word received in early Februai-y from Vince Hengesbach, president of the club. There will be a local progi'am followed by a party. Vince hoped to have Noble Kizer, director of athletics at Purdue, take part in the local observation, if Nobe is still in town and in sufficiently good shape. 
TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) 
Geraid F. Conway, '32, David, Inc., First National Banl< Bids.. St. Paul. President: 
A. K. Sullivan. '27, 264 Lowry Medical Arts Bldn., St. Paul, Secretary. 
UTAH 
Raymond R. Brady, '24, 206 Keams BldR., 
Salt Lake City, President; Qyril Harbecke, 
•19, 64 F. St.. Salt Lake City, Secretary. 
UTICA, NEW YORK Dr. John F. Kelley, '22, Peoples Gas & Elec­tric BIdg., President: Joseph W. Fullem, '31, 1621 Neilson St.. Secretary. 
WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Paul Kennedy, '24, Templeton. Ind., Presi­dent: Emmett Ferguson, '32, Wallace Bldg., Lafayette, Ind., Secretary*. 
WASHINGTON, D. C. Robert Cavanaugh, '36, 4450 Volta Place, 
N. "W., President; Murray A. RnsselU Jr., ex. '32, 1770 Columbia Rd., N.W., Secretary. 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT John Robinson, '28. 32 Farminffton Ave., President; James M. Monaghan, *27, 44 Ayer St., Secretar>'. 
WEST VIRGINIA Vincent Reishman, '35. 1217 Lewis St., Charleston, President; William Kenncy, *34, 714 State St., Charleston, Secretary. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
D. M. "Turk" Meinert. *28. 85 Grand Ave.. Etna, Pa., President; Bernard W. Conroy, '30. 1109 Kenneth Ave., New Kensington, Pa., Secretary-
WESTERN WASHINGTON James M. Phelan, ex. '17, University of Washington. Seattle, President; Emmett G. Lcnihan. '15, 1405 Hoge Bldg., Seattle, Secretary*. 
WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA Kalph Jorden. '26. Bridgeport. Ohio, Presi­dent: Leo J. Kletily, '31, 10 Zone St., Wheeling. Secretary. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Sister Elizabeth Scton, S.C.. Saint Mary's 
College. Holy Cross. Ind., President: Sister 
M. Angeliec, B.V.M.. St. Joseph Convent, Mt. Carmel. Dubuque, Imva, Secretary. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Moran. '29, 1348 Quinn. President: Charles Cushwa. '31. 463 Madera Ave.. Secretary. 
HOTEL • LACK HAWK 
Mm 
c#^^ 
. HOTEL NANyoRD 
HOTEL D»VEHPO«T 

BLACKHAWK HOTELS Located in 
7937 Legal Direcfory 
(Additions and Changes) 
NEW JERSEY 

ShrcJBibtinj McCUE. Vincent j. , .A.B., 30 Quinn & Doremus 
NEW ^'ORK 

/Yen. York DWYER . James Francis. .A.B.. 7 6 120 Broadway c/o Kellogg. Emery & Inness—Brown 
CULTURAL TOUR of 
IRELAND 
icith Prof. PATRICK JOSEPH LEN­NOX of Catholie Univcraitu—graduateof Dublin University^ author of "The Glories of IrcUttuT' and many other books. 
From the south coast. Bantry Bay and Parknasilla to Kitlamey and the Lakes, the I.and of Saints and Scholars, the Ancient Kingdoms, Dublin, Belfast and North Ireland . . . returning via the Shakespeare Country and London. A tour principally hy motor ... with an inspiring leader who will bring out to the fullest its richness in beauty and legendary lore. Sail Tourist Class July 2, 44 days, only 5695. 
Certain colleges grant aeadcwic credits for many of our '*Vniver­sity Tours" . , . for Booklet X6~AG terite to 587 Fifth Ave., New York. 
AMERICAN INSTITUTE of EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL 
BLACKHAWK HOTELS 
Your guests will appre­ciate the' beautiful tnod­etnness of Blacfchawfc Hotels — their gracious hospitality — their out­standing service and con­veniences. In Blackhawlc Hotels you will find lux­urious conifort at moder-
DAVENPORT. IOWA . 
HOTEL BLACKHAWK 
HOTEL MISSISSIPPI 
HOTEL DAVENPORT 
BLACKHAWK 
PEORIA. III. . . HOTEL JEFFERSON ST. PAUL. MINN. HOTEL ST. PAUL MASON CITY, IOWA HOTEL HANFORO 
COMPANY 

Copyright lyis, LicGCTT & MvtRS TOBACCO CO. 






