The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Charles E. Doyle £ Co. 
INVESTMENT SECURITIES 
CHASE NATIONAL BANK BUILDING TWENTY PINE STREET NEW YORK CITY 
HABRY J. CULLBN, '23 
LOUIS E . WAGNER, '18 
Notre Dame Club 
Of the City of New York 
mil 
One of the finest units of the Notre Dame Alumni 
Annual Dues $5 

iHiiii 
22 East Thirty-Eghlh Street At Madison 




ALLERTON 
Club Residences 
Headquarters for 

Notre Dame Men 
in 
New York - Chicago Cleveland 
WEEKLY RATES TBANSIINT BAR S ¥12.00 to f 22.00 12.50 to $3.50 
EXECUTIVE OFFICE: 285 HadiMn Ave, New York 


Marquette Club 
DINNER DANCES 
Feh'uani 15 The St. Regis 
March 17 Hotel Plaza 
MARQUETTE CLUB 22 East Thirty-Eighth St. New York 
>^ IKI Eyt9.'< ^ SPEAKERS 
Cltoicc of Leading Statlotty 
•' Roiiios-liuuidibte ^ 
Ift Adjoittttig Roomy 


fALLERTON HOUSE! 
TOlNQRIKMIOHrOANAVENUB' 
emcAQors CLUB RZSW^HCB^ 
iTOR MEN AND WQMEJVf-rlOOOJJDQMSi 
iOTFlCJALcmCAGP liZAVQUhmBRSj 
for 102 CotteQes-and tUuvixsfities­
^ yattJ.20'NadotuiLSororitias**'j 
^~»1Z^ l3Cf week, -np^-^-^^ 
JTOP AT THE 
ALLEKT€N 
NCTCE DAME liEADQUAI^TEI^X IN CMICAGC 
ISyiiiniiiiiiiiinmiiHimnimni llliillllllllllllllllll 
iiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiifa ^•l^^^^^^^^»^>^^^^^w^^^^v^v^w^^w^^^w^v^w 
•"EJ 




IN THIS ISSUE 
The Notre Dame of Today  Frontispiece  
The Needs of the University, by Rev. Charles L.  
O'Donnell, C. S. C  133  
Notre Dame's Alumni—The Solution  (A Plan)  136  
Editorial  139  
Notre Dame's Football Deficit  140  
Centennial  142  
Athletics, by John Kiener, '32  146  
The Alumni Clubs  ,:  149  
The Alumni  151  

The masaxine is published monthly during the scholastic year by "the Alumni 
Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The 
subscription price is S2.00 a year: the price of single copies is 25 cents. The 
annual alumni dues of 95.00 • include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. 
Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923. at the post office at Notre 
Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1897. All correspondence should 
be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALU.MNI COUNCIL 
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUJINI FEDERATION 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
HARLBY MCDEVITT, '29, Advertising Mgr. 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JASIES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 

MARK M. FOOTE, '73 Honorary President JOHN \V. EGGEMAN, '00 President JAMES E . DEERY, '10 Vice-President JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 Treasurer ALFRED C. RYAN, '20 Director GEORGE M . MAYPOLE, '03 Director 
M. HARRY MILLER, '10 Director 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 Director DON M. HAMILTON, '12 {ex officio) Director 
RilillllllllllKllllltllll 

illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHn 

Commera 
A Merry Christmas 
and a 
Happy New Year 
from the 
Alumni Association 
. of the 
University of Notre Dame 
To which our records show you still owe dues 
The above Christmas card, sent to members whose dues are in arrears, is reported to have met \vith disfavor among a few of those who received it. The Office is sorry to hear that. 
The obligation of the alumnus to his school is outlined further in this issue. Every graduate of Notre Dame is, immediately upon graduation, con­sidered a member of the Alumni As­sociation. This is a privilege, and was considered so by those responsible. It has seldom been interpreted as an effort to "draft" members. The Asso­ciation is very efficient machinery (properly supported) for the fulfil­ment of the debt of the alumni to the school, and goes beyond that (prop­erly supported) to become a very ef­ficient agent in continuing the benefits of the school to the alumni. 
The relations involved, while not in the form of contracts, are even more binding upon those who have ac­tually received the benefits and rea­lized the significance of university training. The Alumni Oflice has at­tempted to make these relations pleasant, removing from the bills for dues, as an example, the sting of the more formal Please Remit. 
It is impossible to find any senti­ment that will produce exactly the same reaction upon 5,000 persons. The Editor only wishes to say that every bit of literature that comes from the Alumni Office is intended to promote the interests of the Asso­ciation and its members. 
Moral: When in doubt, pay your dues. 



I II I 
I
I 
I I 
I 
I1 
iI 
i 
d 

nMrmmMrmmrmmrmmmmrtwmmrmmmmmrmmv/i^r^rtm^^^^^^^ 
TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume VII. JANUARY, 1930 No. 5 
The Needs of the University 
Bij CHARLES L. 0'DoN>fELL, C. S. C. 
W
HAT Notre Dame is, every­body knows, or may discover. 
What Notre Dame might be, 

and must indeed become—that is a 
matter on which we all need to be 
moi-e fully informed. Nobody, least 
of all myself, pretends to possess the 
limits of that vision. 
I have been asked to make a state­ment of the needs of Notre Dame, but it is to be assumed, no doubt, that a mere list of these would hardly satis­fy the assignment. It so happens that many of us want to know why the University needs more money. 
The general answer is that no uni­

versity is financially sufficient unto it­
self. Tuition, which is all that the 
student pays for his education, does 
not cover the cost of his education. 
Last year (1928-29), tuition fees at 
Notre Dame amounted to $590,106.26. 
(.Auditors' Report as of June 30, 
1929). For the same period, oper­ating e.xpenses totaled $922,406.70. This figure would be considerably higher if salaries were paid to the Religious who conduct the University. In other words, if Notre Dame were a secular university, under State con­, trol or private management, it could not exist at all without a substantial 
increase in its endowment. 
It cannot develop as it should with­out a substantial increase in its en­dowment. Endowment means assured income, and assured income means, principally, independence. 
The following table of endowment figures is eloquent: 
Har\'ard $82,820,000 Columbia (New York) 69,550,071 Yale 58,024,459 Chicago 43,409,467 Mass. Institute of Tech­
nology 29,750,000 

Leland Stanford 28,917,532 
Notre Dame 1,000,000 
Princeton, which offers a fairly close parallel to Notre Dame in num­ber of students, and in general mode of operation, has an endowment of $18,000,000. 
These are permanent endowment funds only. The figures do not in­clude gifts of money and land for building purposes. That total would run into hundreds of millions. 
REV. CHARLES L. O'DO.V.VELL, C.S.C. 
President of Notre Dame 
Our one million dollars of endow­ment, secured with great effort through a campaign extending over a two-year period, with five years for the redemption of pledges, is reserved for the payment of salaries to lay professors. The income on this fund, owing to its excellent management by the Board of Lay Trustees, last year was $62,508.10. Professors' salaries for last year totaled $272,796.42. Thus, the combined income deriving from tuition and endowment covered only 70% of the cost of operation. 
The salary scale on which profes­sors are paid at Notre Dame reaches the average of the salaries paid in those colleges and universities affili­ated with the North Central Associa­tion. -A. very special type of instruc­tor and instruction is demanded at Notre Dame. Elsewhere, it makes little or no intrinsic difference, wheth­er a professor is teaching at the Uni­versity of Michigan or the University of Wisconsin. It makes a very great difference to us to secure of all pos­sible men the very type of professor to whom we care to entrust the aca­demic destinies of Notre Dame. These men properly regard their work as a vocation: it is for us to see that they are not financially handicapped be­cause of their idealism. 
Obviously, Notre Dame needs fur­ther endowment for professors' sal­aries. There is not a single endowed Chair in the University. Ten years ago, $60,000.00, representing an in ­come of §3,000.00 a year, was regard­ed as sufficient for a Chair. Today, such a foundation should run from seventy to one hundred thousand dol­lars. The need of such established funds is particularly pressing in the College of Law and the College of Science, but they are needed in every department of the University. 
We need special funds to enable us to bring to the University eminent lecturers. I have in mind such courses as are given, for example, at Harvard, under the IngersoU Lectureship Foun­dation. Under similar endowment, there could also be arranged ex­change-professorships between Notre Dame and the leading universities of this country and Europe. 
Up to the present, the character of Notre Dame has been almost entirely that of an undergraduate school. There is no thought of departing from this established tradition. At the same time, the development of our grradu­ate work will be in reality only the 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Januanj, 1929 
STBRT 

PRESENT DIAGRAJI OF CAJIPUS (Neiv developments carelessbj sketched in by Editor) 
continuation of another tradition that is also sacred. Burdened as our Fac­ulty, clerical and lay, have been in imparting knowledge, they have also given themselves to research and made valuable contributions to the ex­tension of the field of knowledge itself. Thus the original discoverer of the chemical formula which is the base of one of the most powerful explosives known today is a Notre Dame profes­sor. The earliest successful experi­ments in wireless telegraphy made in the United States were made at Notre Dame. More than forty years ago, a Notre Dame professor discovered and applied a principle which was acknowledeged by the Wright Broth­ers as contributing greatly to their first successes in flying. There is a tradition, for which, however, I have never been able to find verification, that the formula for Portland Cement 
was first worked out in a Notre Dame laboi-atory. 
Graduate work, leading to the Mas­ters' and Doctors' degrees, is more and more in demand. This is particularly true in the Summer School, which is forming a large section of the Cath­olic educators of today and tomorrow. The best work of this kind, as every­one knows, cannot be successfully car­ried on without the aid of really vast endo\vment. The special library and laboratory equipment needed for efi^ective research work is so expensive it cannot possibly be acquired except through special endowment funds. 
Dr. Ralph Adams Cram, one of the greatest architects of modem times, and certainly one of the kenest think­ers today, has stataed in recent arti­cles in the Commomveal his conviction that the only place in America, and one of two places in the world, pos­sessing the background and atmos­phere for a great school of Christian 
Art in all its forms, is the University of Notre Wame. In architecture, in painting, in Church music, in creative writing, and, of course, in the Philos­ophy which lies back of these, we have already an excellent start toward that shining goal. In the Wightman Mem­orial Art Gallery, we have one of the finest collections of paintings of a special character in America. This collection is at present housed in the University Library, which needs the space occupied by this exhibit. A desi­deratum that will soon be an urgent, downright necessity is a Fine Arts Building, which will serve as the cen­ter of the apostolate which Dr. Cram has in mind, as an Art Gallery and as a museum for the exhibit of the countless objects of historical value now in the possession of the Univer­sity and stored in vaults for want of a suitable space for their exhibition. This building would be open to the public as well as to the general stu­dent bodv. The cultural influence of 
such a foundation would be incalcul­able. The project could be undertaken for §1,000,000.00. 
The University possesses a Student Loan Fund of $6,000.00. This is in­adequate. Most of the larger univer­sities are developing their student loan funds into a considerable resen-e. 
Fellowship foundations are a press­ing need. The income from a fellow­ship foundation is bestowed upon a graduate student to assist him in the further pursuit of his studies. At the present time, the University enjoys only five such fellowships. The du-Pont Fellowship is constituted by an annual gift of $750.00 for research work in Chemistry, especially in the Chemistry of Acetylene; the Grasselli Fellowship is of a similar amount, and is established to promote re­search work in the fiield of Inorganic Chemistry; the Charles Bernard Mc-Canna Fellowship in Chemistry, was established by an endowment of $10,­000.00; the Frank J. Seng Fellowship in Chemistry, by a fund of $.3,000.00; and the P. C. Burns Fellowship in Electrical Engineering, by a fund of $25,000.00. 
Mention has already been made of the flesh and blood endowment which the University has in the religious members of the Faculty. Attention is now drawn to the fact that these men are formed to their special tasks over a long period of years, and at an aggregate cost which lays a heavy burden upon the Congrgeation of Holy Cross. Candidates for the priesthood ai"e received in Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame at the beginning of their high school work. They study for thirteen years before they are or­dained to the priesthood. To prepare them for their special work of teach­ing, two to four years of further training are required. During their four years of high school, those who are able are expected to pay some­thing toward their own maintenance. After this time, they are entirely sup­ported by the Community. It is es­timated that $250.00 will take care of the mere living expense of a seminar­ian. No more direct help could be given Notre Dame than foundations made to help finance these students for the priesthood. The Honorable Colonel William J. Hoynes, K. S. G., by a gift of $30,000.00 has established at Holy Cross Seminary five burses of $0,000.00 each for the education of poor boys to the priesthood. It should be noted that, if the full amount of the principal of a burse cannot be do­nated, a gift equal to the income of such a burse attains the same practi­cal effect. 

The needs stressed thus far have dealt with what might be called the soul of the University and its work. They appeal to the average donor less than forms of giving that leave a more obvious memorial. These latter forms have their place, and it is an important one too. Simply, they do not come first. Three academic build­ings are urgently needed, one to house the College of Engineering, one for the College of Commerce, and one for the College of Law. The University is undertaking the erection of a Law Building at an estimated cost of $350,­000 00. The University would be hap­py to perpetuate the name of the do­nor of any such building by calling the school after him. A Field House, while less urgently needed than these other buildings, must be provided in the near future for the use of the stu­dent body in general. 
It is obvious that much more might go into a statement of the needs of the University. What has been said here relates in reality only to immed­iate needs. 
.JflWS0:ilOOLfBUILDin.(3 ^noTiie-DHMeunivei^siTii 
•P0TC8D'We-U)I>MIM­
W:«ill!a\'-ai!lUI£S-OI!onilGlll,- -PBtSinHIVF 
m'lfiirrpis'imiMiii.sii-HUfjiTS-iKismn-niHs.v 
i.«.jliU>>­

136 Janxiary, 1930
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Notre Dame's Alumni—The Solution 
Where is the breast of one Notre 

Dame Alumnus that does not throb 
with joy at the thought 'I am a part 
of Notre Dame' and where is the heart 
which does not thrill in answer to the 
name Notre Dame, the name that con­
jures within ourselves memories that 
are tempered with associations which 
are stronger than the cement that 
knits together the walls of our vener­
able college. We are proud, yea vain, 
in heralding to the world that "Notre 
Dame is my Alma Mater" and we 
find satisfaction and egotism in the 
connection and we go to great lengths 
to identify that connection. To us a 
diploma from Notre Dame is our in­
troduction to the world, our passport 
through the world and our badge of 
credentials warranting our character 
and vouching for our reputation. 
To us Notre Dame is immortal in 

our love and we are in a physical way 
lo.val to Our Blessed Mother. But 
these attributes, beautiful as they are 
and richly merited, are not payment 
in full of the debt we owe Her and 
our obligation is not discharged or 
released by sentiment and love alone. 
Something more tangible is expected 
of us. 
Our Alumni Association should feel 

the weight of the burden and we 
should pause and hesitate no longer 
in carrying that burden. It is ours 
and we must assume it. It does not 
belong to the authorities alone and we 
are traitors to tradition if we shun 
it. It should be our resolve to dis­
charge it to the last full measure of 
devotion. 
We cannot close our eyes to the financial strain e.xisting at our dear old shrine. We must see it clearly, appreciate it and then labor to elim­inate it, if we are at heart truly Notre Dame men. It is action on our part henceforward that shall be the te.st of our love and loyalty and finan­cial aid that shall prove it. Plans have been suggested and devised whereby the financial deficit shall be met and cleared and funds created. We bring our plan to you herewith and we invite your attention and so­licit your aid. We have set our hearts on accomplishment knowing that Notre Dame alumni, like Notre Dame football teams "carry on to victory." 
Notre Dame's status as an educa­tional institution, her physical plant, her faculty, her libraries, her stu­dents, are as much your problems, mean as much to you as a Notre Dame alumnus, as they mean to the student of the present and the student of the future. 
Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.G., president of the University, in this issue of the ALUMNUS, outlines the problems that are now facing the Uni­versity, and, as problems of the Uni­versity, are facing you. 
The Alumni Board, after several years of studying the problems and the possibilities of solution, and after an e.xhaustive study of similar prob­lems in other schools, has approved the following plan which has proved the salvation of other colleges in sim­ilar straits. 
Living Endowment "Living endowment" is the term used to identify the plan by which colleges and universities are secur­ing the support essential to their con­tinuing existence and progress, when other sources of support are not pos­sible It has proved the particular salvation of private schools which must compete and progress with modem education without the aid of state or church support and without large endowment. Living endowment means that the alumni of a school, by contributing annually to the support of their school as much as individual circumstances permit, can make the alumni body substitutes for a large permanent en­dowment. It is an organized, effect­ive, and convenient method by which the desire of Notre Dame men to see Notre Dame advance and to share in the progress can be gratified. Additional income for institutions of higher education is a need so much discussed and so commonly accepted as to demand no elaboration here. There is a gap between tuition fees and the cost of education for each stu­dent that'varies with the amount of tuition charged, but seems to average approximately forty per cent. Notre Dame's tuition, two hundred dollars a year, is from twenty-five to fifty per cent lower than the majority of private schools of similar size and scope. The gap to be bridged is thus correspondingly wider. This additional chasm of deficit is narrowed somewhat by the "hotel features" of Notre Dame, board and 
room, and by the endowment created by unremunerated service of the Reli­gious. But Notre Dame has grown so rapidly that the practical endow­ment thus created and the surplus from the extra-tuition fees no longer carry the deficit of actual education costs. It is to aid in completing this essential financing that the Living Endowment plan is launched. 
Annual giving has been selected as the plan of aid for several reasons. First, a large percentage of Notre Dame's alumni body has been grad­uated within the last six years. These later graduates have had no time to build up a reserve from which to set aside large gifts for endowment. Too, there is thus existent a small college alum.ni group to appeal to, and the students of a large college to support. Further, approximately a tenth of the degree holders from Notre Dame are members of Religious Orders and thus not a source of cash revenue. 
Annual giving permits the alumnus to use the capital ordinarily trans­ferred in endowment campaigns, giv­ing to Notre Dame only the interest on such capital. And the first prin­ciple of the Living Endowment plan is voluntary contribution, whatever it is convenient for the alumnus to give. The campaigns for annual gifts are not the "give till it hurts" cam­paigns of endowment, with subse­quent embarrassment caused by shift­ing fortune or sentiment. 
Reasons for giving to Notre Dame should not have to be advanced, now that the University has definitely pre­sented its problems to the alumni and asked their support. 
Your status in the world as a col­lege man is measured to a great ex­tent, no matter how long you are out of college, by the status of your alma mater. It is therefore a practical proposition, as well as a matter of sentiment, to aid the progress of Notre Dame. 
You were enabled to enjoy a col­lege education because some one be­fore you, by money or ser\'ice, had bridged the gap that has always ex­isted between the cost of education and the cost to the student. That you should attempt to repay your school and to provide similar opportunities for those who come after you are elemental truths. 
You want Notre Dame to have the best students, so that the Notre Dame men of tomorrow ^vill reflect credit on you as a Notre Dame man. Good students require gooJT training, involv­ing buildings, faculty and equipment of the best. 
Notre Dame's endowment is only a 

small fraction of the endowment of 
other colleges and universities. In an 
era when a prominent educator has 
estimated twelve million dollars as the 
minimum endowment for a small col­
lege, the significance of Notre Dame's 
one million dollar endowment with an 
enrollment of three thousand students 
is at once evident. A sur\-ey by the 
National Catholic Welfare Council for 
192S showed that the total average 
income from productive funds for each 
student in Catholic colleges and uni­
versities was ten dollars, and con.sid­
ered it miraculous that the Catholic 
institutions of higher education were 
able to exist under this handicap. 
An article in the December ALUM­

NUS pointed out that organized 
alumni have given their colleges about 
seventy-five million dollars, and have 
been directly or indirectly responsible 
for an equal amount from outside 
sources. This latter finding is par­
ticularly significant in connection with 
Living Endowment. 
Special projects will undoubtedly always demand special financing. The object of Living Endowment is pri­marily to supply the University with funds for the current e.spenses of maintenance and development, such as faculty salaries; representation of the University in leading educational so­cieties and activities; books for the libraries; equipment for the labora­toiies; professorships, fellowships and scholarships, and other essentials to progressive education. 
But if a school can point out to its alumni as contributors of a substan­tial support for its current e.xpenses, outside support is much more easily solicited. A neighboring university has received approximately seventeen million dollars from outside sources since a Foundation was organized by the alumni to promote the financial advancement of the institution. 
Living Endowment is the logical an­swer to the problems that face Notre Dame The administration has fol­lowed in the exemplary path of its predecessors and has met problems beyond the comprehension of many contemporary institutions. Added revenue cannot be secured without 
•woi'king a hardship upon students, with very probably a sacrifice of Catholic education at a nominal cost. 
one of the cherished principles of 
Notre Dame since its foundation. 
This plan has not been adopted 
without a great deal of thought. Much 
credit is due Frank Hayes, '14, vice-
president of the Union Bank of Chi­
cago, who was appointed chairman of 
a committee last year for the study 
and formulation of such a plan. Mr. 
Hayes made a personal study of the 
plan as used by Dartmouth and 
Northwestern and was instrumental 
in the construction of the plan for 
Notre Dame. Discussion of such a 
project was begun under the presi­
dency of John Murphy, '12. President 
Hamilton last year appointed Mr. 
Hayes as chairman of the committee, 
with Messrs. Fai-abaugh, Voll, 0'-
Shaughnessy, Galvin, Cull, W. Daly, 
Jlenger, O'Connell, Freeze, J. J. Col­
lins, Steers and E. McHugh as mem­
bers. Mr. O'Shaughnessy, Mr. Voll 
and Mr. JIcHugh met with Jlr. Hayes 
and the .Alumni Secretary at South 
Bend on August 10, 192S. The plan 
was discussed and the committee 
agreed to go into further detail on 
the project before launching it. 
With the advent of the present ad­ministration of the -Association its enthusiasm was added to that of the committee and after a conference with the University administration at No­tre Dame in October it was agreed that the plan should be definitely adopted. -A meeting of the .Alumni Board in Chicago on November 16 heartily endorsed the plan and urge<l its early launching. 
Now it is launched. Details of the plan remain to be worked out. Actual solicitation of the first contributions will not be made until June 1, the be­ginning of the .Association's fiscal year. In the meantime you will re­ceive literature expanding the above outline of the plan and introducing new features that make it essential and desirable. 
Loyalty is one of the unquestioned qualities of a Notre Dame man. But circumstances now demand more than that. They demand that he identify himself as an integi-al part of Notre Dame that grows with the school and meets its problems; they demand that he send only the best of boys to Notre Dame and see that Notre Dame is equipped to give them the best of training; and they demand that he cariT the complete picture of Notre Dame and her needs, as well as her achievements, to his friends that they may become interested in the develop­ment of Notre Dame, so that with the combined support of all her friends she may become what Father O'Don­
nell has envisioned as "the greatest 
Catholic University in the world." 
JOHN W . EGGEJIAX, President. 
JAMES E . ARSISTROXG, Secretary. 
"Juggler" Honored 
John Nanovic, editor, and Harley 

McDe\itt, '29, business manager, were 
elected vice-presidents of the Mid-
West College Comics .Association at 
the conference at the U. of Iowa on 
Dec. 6 and 7. In addition to this 
.signal recognition, and even more sig­
nificant of the place of the magazine 
itself, the editorial make-up of the 
Juggler was adopted by all members 
of the Association as standard. 
N. D. Eagles 

New Notre Dame blood was in­jected into the already rich stream of the Fraternal Order of Eagles on Dec. 15, when the South Bend -Aerie in­itiated Thomas J. Lieb, '23, and Thomas E. Mills, assistant football coaches, George E. Keogan, basket­ball coach, and Howard "Cap" Ed­wards, '09, former captain of the foot­ball team. F. E. Hering, 'OS, former captain and coach of the football team, and former president of the Eagles, was master of ceremonies. Robert Proctor, '04, present Grand Worthy Vice-President, Frank E. Coughlin, '21, former captain of the football team, and G. -A. Farabaugh, '04, were among the speakers. Wil­liam Furey, '23, former Glee Club baritone, sang the "Victory March." The January class of the Eagles, in passing, is to be named in honor of Mr. Proctor. 
Debate Heard Over WLS 

On Monday, Dec. 16, Notre Dame and Purdue varsity debaters engaged in a non-decision debate over station WLS in Chicago. Mr. Moriis and Mr. Otto of Purdue defended the af­firmative side of the question. Re­solved: that the prosperity of the farmer is more important to the cities than cheap food. Mr, Francis Mc-Greal and Mr. Thomas Keegan very ably upheld the negative side for Notre Dame. 
The debaters were cordially x-e­ceived by Mr. Edgar Bill, announcer for WLS and the Notre Dame team feels indebted to the station manage­ment for the courtesy shown them during their brief stay. 
Favorable comment on the debate was extended by many in the WLS radio audience and it is hoped by those connected with the station that more debates of this type may be engaged in during the future. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS January, 1929 
Reviews Praise Poems 
The University Press, Notre Dame, has collected a number of reviews of "A Rime of the Rood, and Other Poems," the latest collection of the published works of Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06, President of the University. 
Father O'Donnell's poems, in this collection, have received praise, with the sl-'-.nn of authoriij. which p!-i.cc.= them in the category of great poetry. Aline Kilmer, in the Commomueal, devotes considerable space to un­stinted praise, closing with: "To help human beings to an awareness of the presence of God must always be the highest aim of any art. And this, surely, Father O'Donnell has achieved." 
The Times Literary Supplement, London, says: Many American critics are so lavish with their obstinately loyal pi-aise of their friends' work that a disillusioned Europe looks with quizzical eyes at America's work in literature. Between a scholarly close­ness to irreproachable models and a self-conscious smartness there seems little room for her poeti-y to rise out of the levels of verse. There is a long array of new names, a monotony of mediocre work, and a weary echo of the talk of clever young people in America. But in the poetrj' of Dr. O'Donnell, we strike work of a very diiferent order . . . Dr. O'Donnell has both the same interests and the same finished and delicate elevation as Air. Stead. We lay the more emphasis on them because we know of no Amer­ican anthology and no book of criti­cism which makes the slightest men­tion of either of them. But it is by no means unlikely that time, which embalms excellence, will keep them fresh when more popular poets have been disintegrated. They are each vpriters of some of the most dignified verse of our time. 
Among other things the Catholic Book Club, in a news letter, said: There is not the slightest doubt that this volume is the notable Catholic poetic contribution of the year. 
In the program to make Notre Dame the center of Catholic arts in America, the President has surely made a contribution of inestimable value 
Important Pamphlet 
William F. Montavon, K. S. G., '98, is the author of an important and interesting pamphlet, "Historic Back­ground of the Lateran Treaty," just issued by the National Catholic Wel­fare Conference. Mr*. Montavon is head of the legal department of the Conference. 

Neivs Service for Relatives of College Students 
A college news service called Collegiate Neios Flashes is now issued by the Radio Department of College Humor Magazine and released through the manufacturers of Majes­tic Radio. This should be of interest to relatives of the one million college students in this country as well as those in Canada and abroad. 
The new sen-ice will be broadcast on the Majestic Hour over 46 stations of the Columbia Broadcasting System every Sunday evening, beginning De­cember 22nd, 8 o'clock Central Stand­ard Time. 
All news of students and student activities in all institutions of learn­ing in this country, Canada and Europe will receive deseiwing mention in these news flashes. Outstanding achievement by individual students and campus groups will be reported weekly. Also, particular attention will be given to sporting events, faculty news, and individual achievements. 
MeDevitt Elected to Inter­collegiate Pictorial Council 
Harley L. McDewtt, Graduate Man­ager of Publications at the Uni­versity, was elected one of the seven members of the executive coun­cil for the Intercollegiate Pictorial Association, at the first meeting of the Association, held December 27, 1929, at the Dartmouth Club in New York City. 
The purpose of the Association is the betterment of relations between American and foreign universities. With this purpose in mind, the Asso­ciation will'publish a magazine: The Intercollegiate Pictorial. The pro­ceeds from the sale of the publica­tion will be placed in a scholarship fund which will be used to enable American students to study at foreign universities and foreign students to study at American universities. Nel­son Rockefeller of Dartmouth College was chosen editor of the Intercol­legiate. 
Mr. George Eastman of the East­man Kodak Company and Mr. John 
D. Rockefeller, Jr., are the sponsors of the movement, which embraces most of the leading universities and colleges of the country. The next meeting of the organization is to be held during the Easter vacation at the Princeton Club in New York City. 
Football Banquet Held 
The 20th annual football banquet was held Wednesday, Jan. 8, in the Dining Hall under the auspices of the Athletic Association. The varsity, reserves, freshman squad and student managers, were the guests of honor. 
The football banquet was notable for the presence of Coach Knute K. Rockne, athletic director of the Uni­versity, who gave the first speech of the evening. In his short talk he ex­pressed his gratitude for the work done by the team, coaches and managers. He introduced Tom Lieb, assistant coach, who acted as toastmaster, and called upon the following speakers: the Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University,who con­gratulated the team of '29 on their splendid showing during the season; Joe Byrne of New Jersey, a prominent alumnus of the University; the Rev­erend J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C. pre­fect of Discipline of the University and a member of the athletic board; Coaches Ike Voedisch, Jack Chevigny, "Cap" Edwards, and Hartley Ander­son, former coach, William Jones, freshman coach, and Tommy Mills, who is leaving the University. He spoke briefly, and stated that he re­gretted leaving Notre Dame and that the school would always remain in his memory. 
Professor Frank Dickinson of the University of Illinois presented the Ressman trophy, symbolic of the na­tional football championship, to Coach Rockne, who accepted it for the Uni­versity. 
Short talks were given by the members of the team, who have played their last game: Captain John Law, Jack Cannon, Ted Twomey, Jack Elder, Ed. Collins, John Colrick, Joe Nash, Bud Gebert, Joe Locke, Tim Moynihan and Tom Murphy. Stu­dent Managers, Quinn and Conroy also spoke. 
The graduates were given presents of life insurance policies by Lester Livingston, '13, of Chicago, and the monogram winners were awarded gold footballs emblematic of the National Championship. 
Father Mooney Visits 
The Reverend E. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C, ex-Dean of the Physical Edu­cation Department here, is now sta­tioned at St. Thomas Military Acad­emy in St. Paul. Father Mooney spent several days of the holiday vacation in Pittsburgh, and dropped in on some of the local boys who made their debut in Freshman Hall under his guidance. 

January, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
"——-f 

111 l^ 1 A 1 1 
L^ 
B" lllillllllillliilll 
I iitiiiii lllltMII MMIIHI 
' 




i i opportunity Knocks But Once'' 
r
HIS familiar thought arises in connection with the article by Father O'Donnell and the accompanying plan proposed by the Alumni Board, which appear in this issue. 
Notre Dame alumni are aware that there has never been an extensive pailicipation by alumni in the affairs of the University. In the nature of a religious institution there never can be the participation that exists in state supported schools, or schools conducted largely by alumni trustees. 

But the reaction to this condition at Notre Dame has been in the other direction, beyond the rational point. An almost complete separa­tion between the University and its graduates existed until the University first definitely ex­pressed its need for outside assistance,—^the Building and Endowment Fund campaign of 1921, which asked for one million dollars for permanent endowment and one million dollars for immediate building purposes. 
That campaign was considered successful, though it involved great effort on the part of the University and pledges still remain unpaid. Be­fore that drive was over, Noti-e Dame realized the inadequacy of the goal set. Since then the University has far outgrown that important first step. The interest on the endowment approxi­mates, by the careful investment abilities of the Board of Laj"^ Trustees, (composed of twelve of the leading business men of the country, half alumni and half non-alumni) sixty thousand dollars annually. The salaries of the lay profes­sors, which prompted the endowment drive, now approximate two hundred and fifty thousand dollars annually. Practically three million dollars has been spent in building since that one million dollar drive for building funds. 
The Alumni Association at the time of the campaign had, by some miraculous agency, it seems to the present officers, sixty thousand dollars in the treasury, and this was turned over to the University for an Old Students Hall. The fund was, of course, insufficient for a hall in It­self, and circumstances seem to have altered thit, case so that the name was ultimately changed. The point here is, that this is the only definite contribution made to the University by the Asso­ciation. 
What has the University given in return ? Ap­pi-oximately five thousand degree holders re­ceived from Notre Dame an education at an average, conservative, per capita deficit to the University of one thousand dollars each. In other words, the University, by its unpaid Reli­gious, by its connections with the Community, by gifts of outsiders, by its profits from room, board and athletics, has actually given to the Associa­tion approximately five million dollars. At the established average valuation of a college edu­cation as thirty thousand dollars, members are enjoying one hundred and fifty million dollars in material advantages through the agency of No­tre Dame. 
Evei-y Commencement has found several hun­dred alumni enjoying hotel accommodations on the campus that translated into commercial lan­guage would approximate from three to five thousand dollars. This has extended over a per­iod of some twenty years since an Association existed. 
For seven years the University has contrib­uted office space to the Association and until veiy recently has borne a substantial part of the 
debts of the Office and the ALUMNUS. 
Now, these should be reasons enough for es­tablishing a renewed and continuing financial re­lationship with Notre Dame. But that is not all the University expects. Alumni experience has shown that between any school, including the re­ligious, and its alumni there can and should be a rational, progi'essive relationship in many fields, that will stimulate both the school and the in­dividual. 
Educational, intellectual relationship existing after graduation is the most recent and most sig­nificant concept of alumni organization. Possi­bilities in this field are just opening. The rela­tionship between the graduate and undergrad­uate bodies,—by pre-matriculation contacts, alumni selection contacts. Local Club affairs, pa­tronage, scholarships, etc.,—are unlimited. 
The ability and opportunity of the alumnus to interest friends in Notre Dame are unbeliev­able until experienced. 
These are developments that expand with the expanding Notre Dame. When Notre Dame be­comes the greatest Catholic university of the world, its alumni will become the greatest alum­ni in the world, a star to which the most expen­sive car may well be hitched. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS January, laso 
N. D. Men in Politics


K D. V Football Deficit 

South Bend's new city administra­
The public press has pounced with avidity and no little misconception upon that phase of the masterful de­fense of football delivered by Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, CSC , at the annual football banquet of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley on Dec. 4, dealing with the theme that football has not returned the great profits to the University commonly at­tributed to it. To clear up Father O'Donnell's expression, the ALUM­NUS is privileged to quote that por­tion of his treatise under discussion: 
"Football brings in revenue and makes a net profit. It is perhaps the only college activity that does, outside of what are termed "hotel features," conducted in connection with boarding schools. Given a certain large volume of business, the net profit, according to published reports, is about 50%, remembering that football must take care of all intercollegiate and all intra-mural athletic activities. What becomes of this surplus ? Usually, it goes back into the plant, into playing fields, field houses, gymnasiums, sta­diums. It has not always done that at Notre Dame, for these very good reasons: we have never charged against athletics a purchase price for the ground space they occupy, nor have we charged a rental on the use of this land. The gymnasium was built and rebuilt after its destruction by fire, out of funds that did not come 
from athletics. Until well along in Jesse Harper's regime as Director of Athletics here, all forms of athletics were always "in the red." That is to say, for a long stretch of thirty years or more, before Harper's time, an athletic deficit was overcome only by the use of revenue derived from other sources, no doubt to the curtailment of the University's expansion in other directions. And, if in the past few years, some surplus athletic revenue has been put to uses other than ath­letic, that is only the payment of a just debt, outstanding for many years against the Department of Athletics, only a fair restoration of the balance. If football were a show-business, pure and simple, as the editors of the Chicago Tribune allege, Notre Dame would never build a stadium. Econom­ically, a stadium means a tremen­dously increased overhead, and it means an investment of $750,000.00 lying idle for all but four or five afternoons of the year. Three college games can be played in Chicago on one and the same day, and three sta­diums be filled, largely because of that collegiate public of which I have already spoken. It remains to be seen just how often in the course of a season a crowd of 57,000 will fill the stadium at Notre Dame. There is no question but that, from the mere financial point of view, building and operating a stadium is not the money­making scheme it is represented to be. Obviously, it has other undeniable advantages that do not enter into this 
discussion." 
Gets Papal Cross 

The Papal medal. Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice, has been conferred upon Dr. Ellen Ryan Jolly of Pawtucket, according to an announcement made Friday, Dec. 13, by Et. Rev. William 
A. Hickey, D. D., bishop of Provi­dence. The medal was instituted by Pope Leo XIII. on the occasion of his golden sacerdotal jubilee, when he defined its object as a reward to "those who have done well the work of the Holy Father in the service of the church and its head." 
Dr. Jolly instigated the movement, which resulted in the erection of the "Nuns of the Battlefield" monument in Washington, D. C A historj' of the work of the sister-nurses in the Civil War, -written by Dr. Jolly, is now in its third edition. 
She received the degree, Doctor of Laws, in 1928 from Notre Dame at the same time a similar degree was conferred on Rt. Rev. Mgr. Peter E. Blessing, \icar-general of the diocese of Providence. Very Reverend John Cavanaugh, D. D. president of the university at that time, conferred the degree. Dr. Jolly is the only woman ever to have been so honored by the University. 
The medal was to be presented with the Papal certificate late in December in St. Xavier's Academy, Broad street, Pro\'idence. It was received by the bishop from Archbishop Fumasoni-Biondi, apostolic delegate. The cer­tificate bears the signature of Car­dinal Gasparri, Papal secretary of state. 
tion carries a good percentage of names familiar to Notre Dame. Wal­ter Clements, '14, chairman of the Democratic city committee, has been appointed city attorney by the new mayor. Al W. Hosinski, '16, is the new city judge. His resignation as justice of the peace left a year's va­cancy which was filled by the appoint­ment of Joseph Nyikos, 23. M. Ed­ward Doran, '20, has been appointed president of the board of works, succeeding the new mayor in that position. 
Indianapolis has its new city at­torney, James E. Deery, '10, vice-president of the Alumni Association, former city judge, ex-national pres­ident of the A. 0. H., and district deputy of the Knights of Columbus. Judge Deery was a strong factor in the mayor's campaign, making, it is reported, more campaign speeches than any other individual. John E. Loftus, '27, has also joined Indian­apolis' legal staff by his appointment as claim attorney for the city. 
Shires vs. Trafton 

Arthur "The Great" Shires, whose publicity—^waiving its constructive quality—is crowding out even the Carnegie report, is alleged to have ig­nored almost entirely the w. k. Mar­quis of Queensberry. This much is certain, he ignored the laws of self-preservation when he challenged George Trafton, one-time center on the Notre Dame team (1919-20), to enter the ring. Arthur was so bat­tered by Trafton that his ring career in a few weeks since has been con­fined to such ventures as have brought down on him the more or less effective wrath of sundr>' boxing commissions. Trafton has been playing center for the Chicago Bears, professional foot­ball team. 
Air Visitor On Campus 

The monoplane which aroused the curiosity of the campus January 8 belonged to Max Conrad of Winona, Minn., a former student at the University who at present con­ducts a flying school at Winona. 
Max was recently injured in an 
aeroplane accident and for that rea­
son the plane was piloted by one of 
the t\vo students who accompanied 
him from Minnesota. 
Conrad is leaving soon on an ex­

tended air voyage to Florida and the 
west coast, with the intention of stay­
ing in California for some time. 
Coach Rockne Leaves on Southern THp 
Knute Rockne has left the snowy rigors of South Bend's climate for the sunny charms of Miami Beach, Florida. Coach Rockne was evidently anxious to start on his long-promised vacation. Only a few members of his immediate family accompanied him. 

The trip was not a pleasure jaunt, but an opportunity for the much needed rest "Rock" courageously de­nied himself while fighting through the football season with his champion­ship team. When asked if he would return in the spring Mr. Rockne said, "I hope so, but I'll stay until I get well." 
Debating Schedule Is Announced 

The Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C, coach of debating, announces that this year's debating team faces the most difficult schedule ever at­tempted by the debaters. Many in­teresting debates have been arranged. Western Reserve is one of the noted teams to be met. Year in and year out they have one of the best teams in the country, and this year's team promises to be no exception. April 7, Notre Dame is to be host to the Han-ard Chinese debaters. This team numbers among its members last year's winner of the Han'ard-Yale de­bating contest, one of the debating classics of the East. This same indi­vidual who also was the winner of the AU-China debating contest before coming to America. 
An honor to be appreciated is the invitation received to debate North­western at the new Chicago campus. It will be held March 28. Purdue will be the other Big Nine school to be debated on March 16. Over a hun­dred letters were received by station WLS, Chicago, regarding the recent radio debate between these two schools. The response was so fav­orable that another debate will be ar­ranged with an opponent as yet not selected. Other schools on the sched­ule are: City College of Detroit, Michigan State, and the University of Florida. 
For the first time in many years the team will travel to the East, April 
22. Princeton will be met at Tren­ton, and April 23, New York Univer­sity at New York City. The prospect of this trip has encouraged many to try for the team and all are working hard. 
From the large squad of over 60 men who began work as candidates for the team over a month ago, only twenty remain for the finals. These have been divided into two groups, the first of which is to speak Friday evening, January 10, and the second on January 13. From these twenty, six will be selected for the Varsity. The team was hard hit by the loss of many good men through graduation. Haskell, McNamara, Williams, Beam­er, and Happer were the men lost. Those remaining from last year are: Baer, Kier, Charles Hanna, Frank McGreal, Walter Stanton, and James Walsh. Many of the new men show promise and threaten the veterans seriously for their position. 
The topic chosen for debate this year is one of great interest to every­one, at the present time. It is, "Re­solved, that all the nations should adopt a plan of complete disarma­ment, excepting such forces as are necessary for police protection." This is one of the world's foremost diplo­matic problems today. A good deal is being written on the subject and every person is vitally interested. 
Secretary Attends Convention 
James E. Armstrong, Secretary of the Association, attended a meeting of the alumni officers of the colleges and universities in District Five of the American Alumni Council (Indiana, Ohio, West Virginia, Kentucky, Mich­igan, Illinois, Wisconsin and Minne­sota) in Wooster, Ohio, on January 10 and 11. The Council has honored Notre Dame by making the local secretary Director of the District. 
Problems of alumni organization formed the program of the two-day session. Alumni oflSce organization, alumni magazines, local alumni clubs, dues and finances,—these wei-e dis­cussed in detail by more than thirty executives from five of the eight states in the District. Weather con­ditions were very unfavorable. (The Notre Dame delegate sat twelve miles out of Wooster in an interurban car for eight hours Thursday night, finally resorting to student custom to finish the journey into Wooster Fri­day morning on a milk rruck.) 
The College of Wooster, whose alumni secretary, John D. McKee, is president of the American Alumni Council, acted as host to the meeting. 
It is difficult to collect into a brief, 
comprehensive account, all of the 
ideas that were e.\changed by the men 
and women in alumni work at this 
meeting. The overtone was a grow­
ingly important relationship between 
the schools and their alumni. This 
relationship seems to be based on the 
realization of both schools and alum­
ni that their mutual development lies 
in co-operation. The problems of 
meeting, of course, were largely in the 
technical field of the associations, 
which supply the organization neces­
sary for efficient realization of the 
possibilities of the various relations. 

But it is significant to note that even 
among these people who have dealt so 
long in technicalities, there is a grow­
ing tendency to go beyond the 
machinery into the field of the aims 

and ideals for which the machinery 
was created. 
Rev. M. L. Moriarty, '10, Class Secretary, is pastor of the Immaculate Conception Church in Wooster, and attended the final session Saturday morning and the luncheon Saturday at one. Father Moriarty is very pop­ular with the administration at Woos­ter. He learaed of the shortcomings of Class Secretaries at the Saturday morning clinic, by the way. 
President Wishart of Wooster gave a short address at the luncheon on Saturday, stressing the new goal of adult education, and brought out in a forceful way the growing under­standing arising between the admin­istrations of colleges and universities and their alumni. 
Returning from the meeting, the Secretary had the pleasure of a stop­over in Cleveland Saturday night as the guest of the Allerton House, and enjoyed an evening with Gene Kane, '14, president of the Cleveland Club, and Fred Joyce, '2.5, secretary. Fred was transferred this month from the managership of the Cleveland Aller­ton to the managership of the Lake Shore Hotel, one of Cleveland's finest apartment hotels. 
Fr. Mac Namara III 

The ALUMNUS regrets to pass on news of the serious illness of Rev. John MacNamara, secretary of the Class of '97. Father MacNamara has been confined in Mercy Hospital, Hempsted, Long Island, and fortunate­ly is reported as making a slow re­covery. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS January, 1929 
CENTENNIAL 
THE 


ENGLISH READER: 
PIECES IN PROSE AND POETRY, 
SELECTED 
FROM THE BEST WEITERS. 

DESIGNED TO ASSIST YOUNG PERSONS TO READ VmH PROPRIETY AND EFFECT: TO IMPROVE THEIR LANGUAGE AND SENTIMENTS: AND TO INCULCATE SOME OF THE JIOST IMPORTANT PRINCIPLES OF PIETY- AND VIRTUE. 
WITH A FEW PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS 
ON THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD READING. 
BY LINDLEY MURRAY, 
AUTIIOn OF AX ENGLISH Gn^VMM.\n. ETC 
TO WHICH IS ADDED 
A VOCABULARY OF ALL THE WORDS THEREIN CONTAINED; 

DIVIDED. ACCENTED, DEFINED. AND THE PART OF SPEECH ANNEXED: ARRANGED IN ALPHABETICAL ORDER: AD.A.PTED TO THE ORTHOGRAPHY AND PRONUNCIATION OF WALKER. 
TO WHICH IS PlIEFLXED 

a ^tv, 
KErtlESEXTlNy T1: E UrFFEKEXT SOUXDS OF THE VOWELS KEFEIinED 
TO BY THE ncUKES. 
BY RENSSELAER BENTLEY, 

AL^TIlOn OF THE ENCUSH Sl'ELUXG-BOOK, AMEKICAX IXSTKUCTOIt, ETC. 
PITTSBURGH 
puBLisiiEij nv 

H. HOLDSHIP & SON. 
J. B. BUTLER—Prmf. 
1830. 

FART II. 
PIECES IN POETRY. 
CHAPTER I. 
SELECT SENTENCES AND PARAGRAPHS. 
SECTION L 
SHORT AXP EASY SENTENCES. 
Edncation. 
'Tis education forms the common mind; 
Just as the twig is bent, the tree's inclin'd. 
Candour. 

With pleasure let us own our errours past: 
And make each day a critick on the last. 
Reflection. 
A soul without reflection, like a pile 
Without inhabitant, to ruin runs. 
Secret Virtue. 
The private path, the secret acts of men, 
If noble, far the noblest of their lives. 
Necessary knowledge easily attained. 
Our needful knowledge, like our needful food, 
Unhedg'd, lies open in life's common field; 
And bids all welcome to the vital feast. 
Disaj)])ointm ent. 
Disappointment lurks in many a prize. 
As bees in flow'rs; and stings us with success. 
Virtuous elevation. 
The mind that would be happy, must be great; 
Great in its wishes; great in its surveys. 
Extended views a narrow mind extend. 
Natural and fanciful life. 
Who lives to nature, rarely can be poor; Who lives to fancy, never can be rich. 
Charity. 

In faith and hope the world will disagree; But all mankind's concern is charity. 
The j>rize of virtue. 
What nothing earthly gives, or can desti-oy. The soul's calm sunshine, and the heart-felt joy. Is virtue's prize. 
Sense and modesty connected. Distrustful sense with modest caution speaks; ) It still looks home, and short excursions makes; > But rattling nonsense in full volleys breaks. J 
_ NOTE.—In the first chapter, the compiler has exhibited a con­siderable variety of poetical construction, for the youns reader's preparatory e.\crclKe. 
The above pages are fac-similes of the title page and a representative inside page from a hundi-ed-year-old book, a text of the last centuiy, used the first year of Notre Dame's existence by William Good, who^e career at Notre Dame was sketched in a recent issue of the ALUMNUS. TWO of Mr. Good's nephews, William E, and Frank Konzen, 1117 Lin­colnway W., Mishawaka, were also students at Notre Dame (1886). The descendants of Mr. Good have turned over several interesting mementos to the University, including this book. 
January, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 




New Honors for Dr, Zahm 
N. D. Coaches 

The Editor doesn't want to say much here because he is waiting in some eagerness and much hope for a review of this field by eminent author­ity, E. Morris Starrett, but there are several items of news interest: 
First, K. K. Rockne, '14, is improv­ing in health much more satisfactorily with the close of the season, ."sat up for the first time on Christmas, and is now on his feet for a part of each day. Coach Rockne and his family expect to leave for Florida the middle of January for a vacation and conva­lescence in less severe weather. 
Jimmy Phelan, '17, after giving Punlue its first Big Ten champion­ship, and an undefeated season, signed a very advantageous 4-year contract with the U. of Washington (who seemed determined to have a Notre Dame coach at all costs). Noble Kizer, '25, guard on the famous cham­pionship team of '24, has been an­nounced as head coach succeeding Phelan. Mai Edwards, '16, the other member of the Notre Dame trium­virate at Purdue, will remain with Kizer, along with Earl Martineau. 
Tommy Mills, assistant coach of football and head baseball coach, has signed a contract with Georgetown as director of athletics for that in­stitution. Mills, before coming to Notre Dame, was director of athletics at Beloit College, Wisconsin, and he has been an important cog in the Rockne machine. 
Charles "Chuck" Collins, '25, has the Southern fans in ecstasy with bigger and better records and one-defeat season at the U. of North Car­olina. Chuck has been building a team and this year it arrived, losing only to Georgia, and ranking second in national scoring, with 346 points. 
With several important changes in coaching positions this winter, a hun­dred rumors are in the air concerning others, but to date these have not had sufficient confirmation to warrant re­printing here. 
K.C.'s Neio Record 

A class of 55 new candidates, re­ported to be the largest early winter class of the Council, was initiated by Notre Dame Council on Dec. 15. Assistant Coach Jack Chevigny, '29. a student in the College of Law, is Grand Knight of the Council this year. Jack Cannon, '30, AU-American guard, is wawlen of the Council. A banquet for Notre Dame and South Bend Knights followed the initiation. 
Notre Dame alumni and friends will learn with a pleasure which has been stimulated many times pre­viously by the same man of the fol­lowing honor conferred upon Albert Francis Zahm, A. B. 'S3; A. M. 'So; 
M. S. '90; LL. D. '17, and Laetare Medallist, '25. 

Dr. Albert F. Zahm, a pioneer in aeronautics and director of the aerodynamic laboratory of the Navy since 1916, has been appointed to the Guggenheim chair of aeronautics at the Library of Congress, established recently by the Daniel Guggenheim Fund. 
Since his youth. Dr. Zahm has been deeply interested in aviation, and' has devoted himself assiduously to its scientific development. While an undergraduate at the University of Notre Dame, he did experimental work in airplane construction by building toy planes of varied tjTjes and materials. He continued this work for several years and finally went to Cornell University e.xpressly for the purpose of advancement along that line through the study of me­chanical engineering. 
During the early 1890's, Dr. Zahm sponsored the first International Con­ference on Aerial Navigation during the World Fair at Chicago. Numer­ous scientific papers on the subject were presented at the conference and subsequently were published in a 400­page volume which has become a standard te.xt. Carrying forward his pioneering in aerial science. Dr. Zahm after obtaining his mechanical engin­eering degree at Cornell, went to John Hopkins University, where he worked out his Ph. D. He prepared his thesis on "The Resistance of Air at .A.1I Speeds Up to 1,000 Feet a Second" while a professor of mechanics at Catholic University at Washington. This thesis also was published and continues to be an authoritative treat­ise. In obtaining material for it. Dr. Zahm used a cannon to fire objects for speed and resistance tests. He also developed an instrument, the optical chronograph, for making measure­ments in these tests. This instrument and his methods are now being used by the Bureau of Standards in similar research and laboratory work. 
While at Catholic University, Dr. 
Zahm also developed the first "air 
tunnell," a valuable device for meas­
uring wind velocity. 

During the World War, Dr. Zahm took charge of the scientific labora­tory at the Curtiss-Wright factory, and later, when the aviation section of the Navy was created, became di­rector of the aerodynamical labora­tory at the navy yard in Washington. 
In addition to this strictly scien­tific work. Dr. Zahm also has had a large part in various other features of aviation. In 190S he was selected as chairman of the committee ap­pointed by the Press Club, which sponsored the Aero Club of Washing­ton. In 1910 he, with Alexander Gra­ham Bell and Gen. George 0. Squier, made a study for and recommenda­tions to the Smithsonian Institution concerning the preservation of the Langley laboratory, which resulted in the present Langley Memorial Lab­oratory, the largest contrivance in the world for scientific testing of air­plane models He likewse was instru­mental in bringing the fir.st interna­tional air contests to Washington. 
In 1913, Dr. Zahm assisted the Smithsonian Institution in sending the original Langley airplane to the Curtiss factory, where it finally was made to fly from water under its own power. He officially represented the institution at the factory. 
Dr. Zahm was awarded the Laetare Medal by Notre Dame in 1925 for his sen-ices in the field of science, which is the highest honor bestowed by an .American Catholic institution on a Catholic layman. 
Concerning his work at the Library of Congress, which he assumed on January 2, Dr. Zahm is very enthu­siastic. He declares it should be "the foremost center for the dissemination of aerial information in this hemis­phere, and also a center of research for all students and investigators who wish to do original work in aero­navigation." 
His work will be the interpretation 
of the aeronautical literature at the 
National Library and the advising of 
research workers. " Dr. Zahm is a member of the .Amer­
ican Society of Mechanical Engineers, 
the Washington Philosophical Society, 
the Washington .Academy of Sciences, 
and the Cosmos Club. 

'i^*4^-ti<' ' ^ -V/'V •••, • ;-i' * 


NOTRE 
'.• ^^ -]^^^S^r^'=-'5^ >. 
^^^^^^^^^•woBz^ii^f*^/* 





C^-^ 
^B|^ S j^^p 
Jaintarij, 19-10 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Porertji, croivd'niff Notre Dame into the little brick col-lcr;e; fire, (lixtroi/iiiij ivork of invaluable sacrifice; ahrai/s the inxiiiriitiou of Soriu; nhrans the faith of Badin and the earljt missions; Civil War; the heroism of Corby,
^AME of YESTERDA Y 
—tliese are the inirii and woof of the old Notre Dame. 
THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS January, 1929 
III I lllllllllllltlllllllllMlllinillHIIIItllllMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII niiiiiiiiiiQ 
ATHLETICS: 

•tiiiiMiiMiiitiilaiiiiiiii 
JOHN A. laENER 



Cagers ff^in Four Out Of Six Games 
1929-SO Basketball Schedule 
Dec. 2—N. D. 40. Kalamazoo Col. 16 
Dec 7—N. D. 49. Lake Forest 21 
Dec. 13—N. D. .59. Albion 11 
Dec. 19—Northwestern 30. N. D. 28 
Dec 23—N. D. 32. Iowa 19 
Dec. 28—Ohio State 29. N. D. 22 
Dec 31—N. D. 22. Northwestern 19 
Jan. 7—N. D. 30, Indiana 29 
Jan. 11—Marquette Univ. at Notre Dame 

Jan. 18—Univ. of Pittsbursh at Pittsburch 
Jan. 22—Michigan State at Lansinc 
.Tan. 31—Wabash College at Notre Dame 
Feb. 4—^Marquette Univ. at Milwaukee 

Feb. 8—U. of Pittsburgh at Notre Dame 
Feb. 14—Butler Univ. at Indianapolis 
Feb. IS—^Michigan State at Notre Dame 

Feb. 22—Wabash College at Crawfordsville 
Feb. 28—Butler University at Notre Dame 
Mar. 8—Univ. of Penn. at Philadelphia 

Since the last reporting Coach George Keogan's Blue and Gold ca­gers have engaged in a series of six contests and have been returned vic­tors iu four of them, one a revenge win over the previous defeat incurred with Northwestern. Albion, first to be met in the sextet of frays, was snowed under 59 to 11. The initial game with Northwestern followed on the home floor and in a great e.xtra­period rally the Wildcats managed to eke out a 30 to 29 triumph over the Fighting Irish. 
Iowa's sophomore squad was the next visitor and was taken into camp very handily, 32 to 19. Playing at Columbus, Ohio State took the meas­ure of Notre Dame, 29 to 22, through the sterling work of Jack Evans, speedy little Ohio forivard. The first game of the 1930 part of the schedule resulted in a revenge victory over the Northwestern Wildcats in a sen­sational last minute rally. North­western led 19 to 18 with one min­ute to play but the Blut and Gold quintet broke through and a field goal by Smith and a brace of fouls by Newbold turned the loss into a 22 to 18 victory. 
NOTREDAME 59; ALBION 11 At Notre Dame, December 13th 
Albion's highly touted quintet was taken for a rout and left battered and bewildered. The visitors from Mich­igan were able to gamer only two field goals, one of these being a long shot heaved desperately from mid-floor. The play throughout was in Notre Dame's favor and the Nor-
Jack McCarthy 
theners put up such a vicious attack in attempting to obtain the ball that McCarthy and Newbold suffered gashes over their eyes before the game was well under way. 
Newbold led the scoring with ten points, three goals and four fouls, with McCarthy right behind him with three from the field and three from the foul line. Gavin netted four bas­kets for third honors. O'Eourke was 
the sole light of the invaders with one goal and tivo fouls for four markers. 
NOTRE DAME ALBION 
G  F  P  
aicCarthy. f  3  3  0  Gray, f  
Newbold, f  3  4  0  Koblin, £r  
DeCook. c  3  1  3  Renkiewicz,  
Donovan, s  1  0  0  O'Rourke. f  
Smith, ff  0  0  2  Hurt, f  
Gavin, f  4  0  4  Sheridan, g  
Bosch, c  1  0  0  Weller. c  
Crowe, t  3  0  0  Wadsworth  
Johnson, e  0  0  1  Rice, g  
Hecnan. f  o 1  1  
Host, f  2  1  0  
Carideo, s  1  0  0  
Forsee, f  1  0  0  
W. McCarthj • 0  1  0  
Totals  24 11 11  Totals  

G F P 0 1 3 0 1 4 f 0 0 2 1 2 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
2 7 9 
Referee—Younff, Illinois Wesleyan • umpire. Warren, South Bend. 

NORTHWESTERN 30; NO­TRE DAME 28 
At Notre Dame, December 19th 
In an extra period rally which brought to the Notre Dame court some of the most brilliant playing since the triple-overtime Michigan State battle two years ago, the Northwestern Wildcats, led by the rangy Bergherm, pushed over a stinging 30 to 28 de­feat. Notre Dame at one point ap­peared to have the game virtually won after one of the most superb rallies ever seen on the local court. They had been floundering around in the forepart of the second half until the count mounted to 24 to 15 against them and eight minutes left to play. Then they shifted into high speed. 
Closing rapidly on their opponents the Fighting Irish tied the score at 25 all with a minute to go and New-bold put Notre Dame ahead 27 to 25, but Bert Eiel grabbed the tipoff and went straight down the floor to sink an easy shot and tie the score. De­Cook's attempt as the gun blew went awry and an extra session was called. Northwestern quickly raised it to 30 

January, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
to 27 and a free throw by Crowe was 
all Notre Dame could accomplish. 
Bei'gherm and Walter were easily 
the stars of the game, the former 
making six field goals and a free one, 
mostly from a position near the side­
line about 20 feet out. Eut Walter's 
new one-handed tossing attack netted 
three goals and a like number of free 
throws. Newbold and Smith turned 
in the outstanding Blue and Gold per­
formances. 
NORTmVESTERN NOTRE DAME (28) 
(30) B F P 

B F P JfCarthy. f 1 0 0 Riel, f 2 0 3 Newbold. £303 Berchcm. f G 1 2 DcCook, c 12 3 Walter, c 3 3 3 Donovan, tf 1 2 2 Lockhart, s 1 1 0 Smith, s 2X0 McCarnos, f-0 1 0 Crowe, f 2 10 
G.ivin. f 10 1 

Totals 12 6 8 Totals 11 G 9 Score at half—Northwestern, 9; Notre Dame, 9. Referee. Fcezle, Indianapolis: umpire. Lane, Cincinnati. 
NOTRE DAME 32; IOWA 19 At Notre Dame, December 23 
Scoring almost at will, Notre Dame steamroUed over Iowa's depleted squad to an easy and listless victory. Although the first half ended with the score knotted 9 to 9, Notre Dame's quintet opened up with a lightning fast passing attack which combined with the resultant field goals ran the score up to 2G to 14 with eight min­utes of the half played. During this period the Blue and Gold forwards were meeting the guards with more alacrity and the typical Notre Dame short-passing attack was seen for the first time this season. 
The first ten minutes of the game 
resulted in some very sloppy pass-
wor's and not until 12 minutes were 
up did Notre Dame score the first 
points of the evening. 
Donovan contributed the bright spot to the program by sinking five bas­kets for ten points, Crowe rivaling him -with three goals and one foul. Spradling and Hildreth played well for the lowans. 
NOTRE DAME (32) IOWA (19) 
B F P B F P MXarthy, £1 2 1 Hildreth, £21 0 Newbold, f 0 2 RoKge. £ 0 14 DeCk)ok, c 3 0 3 Spradlinc, c 3 0 0 Donovan, s 5 0 1 Jebcns, s 111 Smith, g 0 0 1 Kinnan, e 12 2 Crowe, f 3 10 Talbert, f 0 0 0 Gavin, £ 0 10 Reinhardt, s 0 0 0 Busch, c 0 0 1 O'(3onnell, c .0 0 1 
Totals 14 4 10 Totals 7 5 7 
Score at half—Notre Dame, 9: Iowa, 9. Referee. Feezle. Wabash: umpire, Keams, DePauI. 
OHIO STATE 29; NOTRE DAME 22 At Columbus, Ohio, December 28th Starting fast with an 8 to 4 lead, the Buckeyes let Notre Dame take a 12 to 8 lead at the opening of the 
Captain "Ooney" Donovan 

second half but with Jack Evans, speedy forward, in complete charge of Ohio State's offensive, the latter school soon had a 26 to 16 lead, hold­ing it safely till the final gun sounded. 
Under the basket work by Evans and Ervin, with the floorwork of Fes­ler and Larkins, two fotball stars, ac­counted for the Buckeye victory. Donovan and Smith safely guarded the outer court but follow-up and re­bound shots proved to be the nemesis of Notre Dame. 
Ragged playing and disorganized team play marked Notre Dame's share of the second half and contrib­uted for the most part to the defeat. Evans totaled nine points and Er^^n made eight during the game, each man looping in four goals, DeCook was high man for the Irish with three and one for seven points. 
Score: 
OHIO STATE (29) NOTRE DAME (22) 
B F P B F P Ervin, £ 4 0 2 Newbold, £021 Evans, f 4 12 MXarthy, f 1 3 3 Such, f 0 0 1 Crowe, f 0 0 4 Wrislcy, c 2 12 DeCook, c 3 11 Fesler, g 1 0 2 Kizer, e 10 0 Larkins, B 0 2 3 Smith, B 12 0 Hinchman, e 1 1 2 Donovan, g 0 2 1 
Totals 12 5 14 Totals G 10 10 
Score at half—Notre Dame, 11; Ohio State, 8. Free throws missed—^Notre Dame, 9; Ohio State, 8. Referee. Frank Lane, Cincinnati; umpire, Stanley Feezle, Indianapolis. 
NOTRE DAME 22; NORTH­WESTERN 19 
At Evanston, 111., January 1 

George Keogan's' Fighting Irish managed to come from behind in their second meeting of the season with the Wildcats and eked out a 22 to 19 win. It was the first Notre Dame win over the Purple basketeers in five starts, the Wildcats having won the second meeting of the 1927-28 season, both engagements last winter, and the first of this season's series two weeks be­fore. 
With one minute to play and on the heavy side of a 19 to 18 score, North­western went off into a stalling game but Notre Dame rushed them and on a tip-off after a held-ball. Smith piv­oted and sank a goal from center floor about 20 feet out. Newbold was fouled by Walter as he dribbled down the hardwood and his two shots brought the score to 22 to 19. Notre Dame then successfully "froze" the ball the remaining seconds. 
The second half was marked by ex­ceedingly close -basketball. Notre Dame held the lead, the Wildcats would then take it and after each suc­ceeding basket the trick would be re­versed. Both teams missed heavily in the matter of free throws, Notre Dame making only six out of 16 while the Purple got three out of 14. 
Riel, McCames and Walter were the outstanding performers for the losers with Newbold and DeCook carrying the greater part of the burden for Notre Dame. These two accounted for 17 of Notre Dame's 22 points, each netting three field goals apiece. 
Score: 
NOTRE DAME (22) NORTHWEST. (19) 
B F P B F P McCarthy, £ 1 0 3 Bergherm, £ 0 1 1 Newbold. f S 4 1 Riel, f 2 13 DeCVMk, c 3 13 Walter, c 2 0 2 Smith, g 1 0 2 McClames, g S 0 1 Donovan, g 0 1 1 Lockhart, g 1 1 3 Crowe, £ 0 0 1 Mundy. g 0 0 1 Whelan, £ 0 0 0 Hails, £ 0 0 0 
Totals 8 6 11 Totals 8 S 11 
Score at half—Northwestern, 10; Notre Dame, 9. 
Referee, Feezle, Indianapolis; mnpire, Schonuner, Chicago. 
Rockne Views Outlook 

Coach Knute Rockne's Neiu 
Year's proclamation as given 
to tlie Associated Press earned 
his iisnal hard-luck story hit 
tliis time as viore or less subtle 
optimism. Rockne also paid 
tribute to his competent assist­
tants and reminded that he 
would be back soon again and 
be of some aid to them. The 
complete quotation as received 
from the Associated Press is as 
follows:"We lost nine first-class 
football players by graduation 
and face a stiff ten-game sched­
ule in 19i0 but don't feel too 
sorTTj for HS. We'll have a fair 
teain and be scoring a few 
touclidoivns. I'm almost tvell 
again and should be of some 
help to my very able coaching 
staff."—(THE SCHOLASTIC.) 

Notre Dame 30; Indiana 29 at Bloomington, January 7 
A last minute rally effort right un­der the basket by Norb Crowe, a re­placement for Bill Newbold who had been ejected from the fray for four personals, gave Notre Dame the necessary margin to win a thrilling 30 to 28 decision over Indiana's be­fore 6,500 rabid fans in the latter's field house at Bloomington, Indiana, January 7. 
Starting off with a fast attack Notre Dame took the Hoosiers away with them and by the half were in possession of a 12 to 7 advantage. With but a scant two minutes left to play in the final period Strickland gave Indiana a 29 to 28 advantage, but instead of playing a safe game the downstaters elected to try to add another basket. A bad pass gave the ball to Crowe and he dribbled down the floor and sank the goal un­molested. 
McCracken began the second half with an undei'-basket shot to bring the score to 12 to 9. Donovan, Smith, and DeCook collaborated in making three to put Notre Dame far in the lead, 20-11. At this point Notre Dame began its usual delayed offensive but with seven minutes to play McCrack­en dribbled through the whole Blue and Gold five to tie the score 24-24. Donovan then counted for Notre Dame, but Zdler repeated with a bas­ket from the side. Crowe went in for Newbold and sank a short one; Strickland gained the lead for Indiana again by popping in one from far cut. Crowe missed both shots when Veller fouled him, but a few seconds later made his attempt good under the net for the winning point just as the gun sounded. 
NOTRE DAME (30) INDIANA (29) 

B F P B F P 
Newbold. rf 1 0 4 StrlcMand. rf 4 0 1 
McCarthy. If 4 0 1 B. Miller. If 0 0 0 
DeCook. c 3 0 1 McCracken. c 1 4 1 
Donovan, nr 4 0 0 Veller. Ts 3 3 4 
Smith. IK 1 0 3 Blairrave. IK 0 0 1 
Crowe, rf 2 0 f • Zeller, If 3 10 
Eber. TK 0 0 0 
Conley Elected 1930 Foot­ball Captain 
Tom Conley, end on the 1929 foot­ball team, was elected to captain next years' football team at the conclusion of the annual football banquet held January 8 in the University Dining 
^S^SS 
Tom Conley 
Hall. Conley, a native of Philadelphia, was elected to succeed John Law by the monogram winners, and will be playing his third year on the varsity next year. 
Next years' captain is a junior in the college of Arts and Letters, and played right end consistently during the past season. His greatest ex­hibition of play was in the Southern California game when he speared two forward passes, making a long run on one, and scoring a touchdown on the other. He is also a member of the varsity basketball squad, and was president of the Sophomore Class, and a member of the Student Activities Council last year. 

Track Outlook Bright 

Nearly 75 aspiring candidates an­swered Coach John P. Nicholson's call for varsity track men January 6. From this group Coach Nicholson ex­pects to develop one of the strongest teams ever to represent Notre Dame in that sport. The greater part of last year's outfit, strengthened by val­uable additions from the 1929 frosh, make prospects the brightest they have been in "Nick's" regime here. 
The schedule as announced by Coach Nicholson includes entries in 17 meets. A special crack two-mile relay team is entered in a number of the most important events in the country. 
1930 TRACK SCHEDULE 
INDOORS 
Feb. 1—Marquette at Notre Dame. Feb. 8—Melrose Games, New York (special relay entry). Feb. 15—Illinois at Notre Dame. Feb. 22—Indiana at Bloom­ington. March 1—^Wisconsin at Madi­son. March 7 and 8—C. I. C. at Notre Dame. March 15—^Illinois Indoor Re­lays at Champaign. OUTDOORS March 29—Texas Relays at Dallas. April 19—^Kansas Relays at Lawrence. 
April 26—Penn Relays at Philadelphia. Drake Relays at Des Moines. 
May 3—Ohio Relays at Co­lumbus. May 10—Michigan State at Lansing. May 17—^Indiana State meet at Notre Dame. May 24—C. I. C. at Mil­waukee. May 31—^Illinois at Cham­paign (tentative). June 7—U. S. Naval Acad­emy at Baltimore. June 13 and 14—^National In­tercoUegiates at Chicago. 
•­

Januii]-!/, 19ilO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Erskine Award to N. D. 
Notre Dame was named as having the champion football team of the United States for 1929 in a ballot of the leading sport writers of the coun­try which was sponsored by Albert Eussel Erskine, president of the Studebaker Automobile Corporation. The result of the ballot was announced by AV. 0. McGeehan, noted sports writer and columnist for the New York Herald-Tribune, on Januaiy 2. 
A silver cup, emblematic of the national championship award will be in Notre Dame's possession for one year. 
The result of the ballot showed how Notre Dame completely outclassed her closest rivals, Pittsburgh and Purdue. Notre Dame received 179 votes with 
B" 
Pitt totaling 38. Purdue finished in the rear with two ballots. The solid vote of the Committee of Award gave an additional 11 votes to Notre Dame, making a grand total of 190. The vote of Theodore Roosevelt, member of the Committee, was received by cable from Porto Kico by way of the War Department in Washington. 
In an earlier ballot to determine the first three teams, Notre Dame, Pitts­burgh, and Purdue also finished in the order named. Here again Notre Dame completely swamped her field in the number of votes acquired. It is significant in the final selection that the solid vote of the Committee of Award should be given to Notre Dame. This makes it practically an unanimous award for the champion­ship team of the United States. 
Univ. of Mexico Here 

A game with the University of Me.\ico basketball quintet has been scheduled for January 20 on the home court. The foreign team is touring the country on a good-will expedi­tion and their presence on the local floor should attract one of the largest crowds of the season. 
"Talkies" Want Rockne 
Newspaper writers in Hollywood insist on dwelling on the rumor that Knute Eockne is to appear in the talk­ing picture version of the musical play, "Good News." "Eock", how­ever, has publicly denied that he will enter the talkies, although he ad­mitted that he received an offer. 
I iiiiiiiii itiiimiiiimmmnnimtttiiitiiiiMiliiiiiiiiiitMiimiiiminimMntiiMiiiiiiMititiiMiiiig 
o



A LUMNI V_^LUBS 
The District of Columbia Gathers Its Chivalnj 
Chicago's football banquet was pri­marily a tribute to large and efficient Club organization. New York's stood out for the large percentage of alum­ni in attendance. The St. Joseph Val­ley testimonial dinner was eloquent of the general admiration of alumni and public for Knute K. Rockne and the Notre Dame team. 
Washington, in a "football victory dinner" at the Mayflower Hotel on the evening of December 17, had or­ganization, alumni attendance and certainly admiration for Rock and his team. But the affair brought out as few affairs have, the prestige in the high places that football has brought to Not'e Dame. 
Frederic William Wile, '91, nation­ally prominent journalist and political authority, was toastmaster for one of the finest programs it has been the ALUMNUS' pleasure to record. 
The Hon. James E. Watson, LL. D. '14, senior senator from Indiana, responded to the toast, "Indiana." Major James Crawford, U. S A., for­mer director of athletics at the U. S. Military Academy, spoke on the rela­tions between Army and Notre Dame. Rear Admiral S. S. Eobison, U. S. N., superintendent of the U. S. Naval Academy paid tribute to the relations between Navy and Notre Dame. Major Crawford and Rear Admiral Eobison vied with each other in tributes to the sportsmanship and skill of Notre Dame teams. Major Crawford wound up by saying: "I salute you as the champions of 1929." Both Army and Navy spokesmen expressed the warm hope that the Irish would always be on their schedules. 
Major-General Smedley Butler, fa­mous leader of the Marines, spoke on "The Marines and Football," prais­ing the Notre Dame style. Senator Arthur Robinson of Indiana, and Sen­ator David I. Walsh, LL. D. '17, were also called upon for informal talks, and added to the praise already heaped upon Notre Dame. 
The team was represented by Assistant Coach Tommy Mills, who responded in a most interesting and able talk. (Washington must have liked Tom, and vice versa, with his subsequent contract with George­town). 
"The Spirit of Notre Dame" was presented to the alumni and guests by Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, '90. A letter from one who was present at the banquet says, "Father Cavanaugh was never better. He stressed the cultural and spiritual side of Notre Dame life, rather than the already stressed athletic. He told the story of Sorin and other pioneer fathers. He recalled the Great Fire and how the college rose from its ashes. He asked his hearers to remember that proud as Notre Dame is of its foot-teams, it is prouder still of its alumni who have made names for themselves in every walk of life. 
Kirk Miller, sports editor of the Washington Times, a guest of honor. 
I iiiiiimmiiiiniinuniMiiiinniiiiiiiiMiiiiHunmiiiuiiKl 
in his column following the banquet, closed with this impression of Notre Dame, "And with Rockne an all-around man even when the football togs are laid away, with the students at South Bend having an exceedingly full academic schedule even during the football season, and with Notre Dame steeped in what some call a slightly oRl-fashioned idea of giving its lads an education along with their recreation, we wonder what kind of a football team they would have if they ever really gave much of their time and attention to the sport." 
Among the other guests of honor were Representative Hamilton Fish, Jr., of New York, famous Harvard football captain; former Chief Jus­tice Walter I. McCoy of the District Supreme Court, president of the Har­vard Club of Washington; Huston Thompson, one-time Princeton foot­baller; William W. McBride, corpor­ation counsel of the District; Brig. Gen. Edward L. King, U. S. A., cap­tain of the Army team of '95; Col. 
L. B. Kromer, U. S. A., captain of the Army team of '00; Lieut. Col. Paul D. Bunker, U. S. -A.., Army team of '99-'02; William E. Leahy; George 
H. O'Connor; Col. Edward P. Thayer, secretary of the United States Senate; William S. Paley of New York, pres­ident of the Columbia Broadcasting System; William H. Beck, assistant to the Secretary of State;'Everett Saun­ders, former secretary of ex-President Coolidge; Representative D. A. Eeed, 
(N. Y), Andrew J. Hickey, (Ind.), and William R. Wood, (Ind.); Charles 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS January, 1929 
W. Darr; Matt Home; and Shirley bini, '29, and James T. Parker, '28. held in the Elks Ballroom there on PoWck, sports editor of the Wash­Lionel Carney, '24, according to Jim, December 28. One hundred and fihy ington Post. is on Wall Street. couples attended the affair, and re­
Musical numbers were given by JOLIET, ILL. ports are unanimous in its praise. 
Messrs. George O'Connor and Matt Notre Dame alumni and the alum­Francis Dunn and Miss Lucille Red­
Home; Dorothy Sherman, soprano, nae of St. Mary's joined forces in mond were co-chairmen of the dance. 
with William T. Pierson at the piano; Joliet for the annual Holiday Dance, A football, autographed by the 1929 
and by the quartette from Holy Cross 
College, Brookland. 
The success of the Washington ban­1930 DIX REUNIONS—MAY 29, 30 and JUNE 1, 1930 quet is due in large part to the work CLASS SECRETARIES NOTE! CLASS MEMBERS NOTE! 
of the committee in charge. This 
committee consisted of the officers of 
SLvKE YOUR PLANS ACCORDINGLY! the Club—Dr. James A. Flynn, El. 
The liitc of years at the top margin dcsiunates the years in irhich remtiotm are held. The eolun '12, president; vice-presidents Eev. of fii/ures lioint the left viartfin desitjnates the class year or year of t/raduatioii. Francis McBride, CSC , Dr. Charles 
P. Neill, '93, and William M. Galvin, 1930 19311932 1933 1934 1935 1936 1937 1938 1939 1940 1941 1942 1943 1944 '14; James D. Hayes, '17, secretary; 1939 1939 Victor Mersch, treasurer; and the fol­1938 1938 
1937 
1937 

lowing members—E. K. Thode, '24; 1936 
1936 Dr. Raymond T. Holden, Jr.; Rudolph 1935 1935 Rice, and William F. Montavon, K. S. 1934 1934 G., '98. 1933 
1933 1932 
1932 1932 

TWIN CITIES 1931 
1931 1931 Leon Moes, 1230 W. Minnehaha 1930 1930 1930 
Parkway, Minneapolis, has been ap­1929 1929 1929 1929 
1928 

1928 1928 1928 
pointed Secretary of the Club, suc­1927 
1927 1927 1927 
ceeding the late W. C Bins. 1926 
1926 1926 1926 1926 ERIE, PA. 1925 1925 1925 1925 1925 
1924 

1924 1924 1924 
The Notre Dame Club of Erie, Pa., 
1923 

1923 1923 1923 
has joined the i-anks of the Local 1922 
1922 1922 1922 Clubs. Organization was effected at 1921 1921 
1921 1921 
1920 

a dinner on Monday night, Dec. 30, 1919 1920 1920 1920 
at the Sunset Country Club. Richard 1918 1919 1919 1919 1919 
1918 1918 1918 1918 1918 
D. Daley, '17, was elected president of 1917 
1917 1917 1917 1917 1917 
the Club. Tom Barber, '24, former 1916 
1916 1916 1916 1916 
1915 

ti'ack star, and John Weibel, '25, 1914 1915 1915 1915 
guard on the '24 championship team, 1913 1914 1914 1914 1914 1913 1913 1913 1913 
were elected vice-presidents. Dick 1912 
1912 1912 1912 1912 
Daley is on the Erie Times, a paper 1911 
1911 1911 1911 owned by the father of George Mead, 1910 1910 1910 1910 1910 
1909 '27. Tom Barber is practicing law in 1908 1909 1909 1909 1909 1908 1908 1908 1908 
Erie, while Johnny Weibel is finishing 1907 
1906 1907 1907 1907 1907 
up a course in medicine at Vander­
1905 1906 1906 1906 1906 bilt U. 1904 1905 1905 1905 1905 1903 1904 19(M 1904 
Earl O'Connor and Joseph Mooney 
1902 1903 1903 1903. 
were among the speakers at the orga­1902 
1901 1 1902 1902 nization dinner, in addition to the offi­1900 1901 1901 1901 
cers. Those attending were: Richard 1899 1900 1900 1900 1900 1898 1899 
Daley; Thomas Barber; Joseph 1899 1899 1899 
1897 1898 
1898 1898 1898 
Mooney; Robert Roach; Charles Witt-1896 
1897 1897 1897 
man; Leo Carney; Thomas Steele; 1895 
1896 1896 1896 Merle Baldwin; Emmett McCabe; Jo­1894 1895 1895 1895 18931 
1894 1894 1894 1894 18921 
seph Carney; Alaurice Coughlin; John 
1893 1893 1893 1893 
Weibel; Theodore Weibel; Robert 
18911 

1892 1892 1892 1892 
Rouche; Jerry O'Connor; Richard Da­18901 
1891 1891 1891 
18891 

ley; Earl O'Connor; Tliad Heinlein; 1890 1890 1890 1890 
18881 

Dave Norton; Lionel Carney; Larry 1889 1889 1889 1889 
18871 

1888 1888 1888 1888 
Stadler; Robert Weschler; L. Galda-18861 
1887 1887 1887 
bini; Tom McLaughlin; George Mead; 18851 1887 
1886 1886 1886 1886 
18841 

A. Gerry, and M. Muntz. 1885 1885 1885 1885 
18831 

1884 1884 1884 
James R. Meehan, who is in Erie 18821 1883 
1883 1883 1883 
on some special work for the N. Y. C , 1881118811 1882 
1882 1882 1882 
1880118801 

writes that work prevented him from 1881 1881 1881 1881 
1879118791 
1880 1880 

being at the dinner. He adds that 1880 1879 1879 
187811878! 

two N. D. boys are with the G-E 1879 
1878 1878 
company in Erie on tests, Jean Galda­
January, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
team, was given as a favor by Ed­ward King, president of the N. D. Club. The ticket committee was Har­old Carey, William Bossingham, Simon T. Farrell, and Francis Dailey. Chaperones were Mr. and Mrs, Wil­liam Redmond, Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Adler, Mr. and Mrs. Patrick McFar­land, Mr. and Mrs. Edward King, Mr. and Mrs. Francis Dunn and Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Wilhelmi. Colors of the two schools, blue and white, and blue and gold, were used for decorations, which were planned by Clarence Wilhelmi. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY 

Rex Enright, assistant coach at the University of North Carolina, was the principal speaker at the dinner which was held Monday night, December 23, at the Lafayette Hotel, Rockford, by members of the Rock River Valley-Notre Dame Club. 
Rex, who was a star football and basketball player in his high school days at Rockford, won all-western honoi-s in 192.5 through his play at fullback on the Notre Dame team. He now is associated with two other Notre Dame men. Chuck Collins and Bill Cerney, in coaching the southern team which lost only one game in 1929. 
Several students from Dixon and Sterling, as well as Rockford, joined the alumni in the dinner meeting, at which a review of the football season and a discussion of prospects of 1930 were the features. 
Joseph Petritz, editor of the Foot­ball Review, was among the speakers. 
S|.. 
Deaths 

A letter recently received at Notre Dame brings the unfortunate news of the death of Rev. DOMINIC MATAL­LANA, 0. P., E. E . '16. Padre Matallana died on Oct. 3, 1929, at Reus, Taragona, Spain, where a men­tal condition, developing in 1924, had confined him 
The ALUMNUS records with very sincere regret the death of WALTER 
C. BINS, a student at Notre Dame in 191S, and secretary of the Twin City Club at the time of his death. Mr. Bins, who was 31 years old, died in his home, 5115 Twenty-seventh Ave­nue S., Minneapolis, on Sunday, De­cember 29, after an illness of but four 
His father, Frank Petritz, is presi­sity as to how or when the stadium dent of the Rock River Club. will be named. BUFFALO 
DETROIT The N. D. Alumni Club of Buffalo Charlie Molz writes from Detroit has been giving Notre Dame a lot of that alumni there do not like the term very favorable publicity in an un­Ramblers applied recently to the usual way, namely, by giving its solid Notre Dame football team. The De­support to Jay "Biffy" Lee, '12, for­troit sentiment echoes what seems to mer president of the Club, in his first be a general University and alumni year as coach of the U. of Buffalo's attitude. No official University pub­football team. The result has been licity carries the term, nor do the a successful football team for Buffalo, campus publications use it. Under which won 5 of 7 games, and a big these circumstances, and with the Notre Dame boom as a corrollary. 

term being applied to another team Biffy has given 45 after-dinner more generally, it seems likely that speeches since the first of October and with Notre Dame in its new stadium 
was given personal credit for having next year the term will die a natural been responsible through his coaching death. In the meantime, a few com­this Fall for a million dollars of Buf­plaints from alumni to offending falo University's 55,000,000 endow­newspapers with the proper attitude ment drive. U. of Buffalo alumni, led and reasons for the objection should by Dr. Robert Burns, '17, president of curb the tendency in specific in­the N. D. Club, are raising a fund to stances. Fighting Irish has been present BifTy with a Pierce-Arrow. 
agreed upon most generally as the ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
nick-name of the Notre Dame eleven. Things are still simmering from the banquet of last month and the official Club backs are smartinj^r from the 
NOTICE TO CLUB SECRETARIES! continued patting, but the official 
The number of accounts of Club minds are already ahead to new^ fields. 
activities in this issue is out of all President Paul Castner was among 
proportion to the number of alumni the Studebaker delegates to the New-
meetings of one kind or another that York auto show. The Club was re-. 
the Editor has every reason to believe cently credited by local newspapers 
took place during the holidays. But with the official launching of a move­
in these instances the Editor has only ment to name the new stadium the 
the Club Secretary, or some thought­Rockne stadium, but Club officers say 
ful member of the Club, to rely upon that the discussion was informal and 
for information. It is with regret that the newspapers misunderstood 
that this section is closed without fur­the expressions. No official announce­
ther Club news that must, it seems, ment has been made by the Univer­
exist. 
II It II iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii •Q 


^THE ALUMNI 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii'iiii'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
days. He was taken ill shortly after pathy in the death on Dec 5 of Mrs. the annual dinner of the Notre Dame Roger C. Sullivan of Chicago, a bene­Club, suffering an attack of influenza factor of Notre Dame. which developed into pneumonia. 
Another death which the -ALUM­
After leaving Notre Dame Mr. Bins NUS regrets to announce is that of entered the paint business in Wau-Mrs. William Sullivan, Newberg, Ore­sau. Wis., and later moved to Green gon. Mrs. Sullivan was the mother Bay, his home. He went to Minne­of JOSEPH S. SULLIVAN, L.L. B. 
apolis five years ago to become '28, former captain of the baseball Northwest manager of the Kling­team, and of WILLIAM SULLIVAN, Tite Paint Products Co. of Chicago. 
'31, chairman of the 1930 Junior Prom. 
He is survived by a widow, t^vo 
• — -. •
small sons, his parents, Mr. and Mrs. 
Marriages

Peter Bins, and four sisters, all of Green Bay. Mr. Bins was a very ac­The -ALUMNUS, like Denver, was tive member of the Twin Cities Club, pleasantly surprised to learn of the and, almost a daily communicant, a elopement on Friday, December 13, of splendid example of Notre Dame man. HARRY -A. McGUIRE and Miss Mir­
—> -iam Forster. To quote from a Denver The ALUMNUS expresses its sym­paper: 
THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS Januarij, 1930 
Cupid pulled a "fast one" on Den­
ver society last night when Harry Mc­
Guire and Miss Miriam Forster eloped 
to Colorado Springs. They were quiet­
ly married at 9 p. m. by Rev. Fr. Wil­
liam Gallagher in the rectory of St. 
Mary's Church. 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Whipple were 
the official witnesses. The couple stole 
away secretly, but a group of their 
friends, scenting a wedding motored 
down after them. They arrived at 
the church as the nuptials were 
being read. 

News of the wedding came as a 
bolt from the blue to most of local 
social set members, however. The 
bridegroom has been a popular 
"eligible" since his return here from 
college in the East, two years ago. 
His marriage leaves the ranks of 
society bachelors depleted. It is ex­
pected that news of his elopement 
will cause no little consternation 
among hostesses ever on the alert for 
an "extra" man at a dinner party or 
a dance. 

The bride, who came to Denver three months ago, is a member of the faculty of the Kent School for Girls. She is from Lawrence, Mass., and is a graduate of Smith College, is a talented musician and is a petite brunet 
McGuire's attentions to the little school teacher have been marked within the last month, but even his close friends did not dream that the romance would reach so .swift a culmination. 
McGuire is prominent in art circles and is a former president of the Art Theater. 
He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. J. A. McGuire and is a graduate of Notre Dame and of the graduate school of Yale. He has tried his hand at writing plays, many of which have received favorable comment. He is also the author of one published novel. 
In addition to these accomplish­ments, he is the only man in Denver in recent years who has succeeded in raising a "Van-dyke" beard. In spite of kidding by his friends, he brought his beard to a heavy growth. 
After a brief honeymoon at the Broadmoor, the couple will return to Denver and will make their home at 1 Downing Street. 
FRED CONNELL, '27-'29, and Miss Marguerite Fredericks, Fort Wayne, were married in the Log Chapel at the University by Rev. P. J. Haggerty, 
C.SC, on Dec. 31. 
Correspondence with BOB SERVA­TIUS, '28, reveals that Bob was mar­ried Oct 1, 1928, to Miss Irene Peck-ham of Utica, N. Y. Bob and Mrs. Servatius are living at 137 South St., Utica. 
Births 
Jlr. and Mrs. CO\'NE HATTEN, '26, Webb City, Mo. (600 S. Wall), announce the birth of Frederick Coj-ne Hatten on Dec. 21. The boy is off to an eight pound start. 
•:• * 
I Engagements | 

<. « 
The engagement of Miss Emily Kitchen of New York and Newport to Mr. WILLIAM SCHOJIBURG, ('25), of Sound Beach, Conn., was re­cently announced in New Yoi'k City. 
The wedding of Miss Helen Ade­laide Powers, Cleveland, and JAMES EDLIN (Ben) BOURNE, '26, has been announced for January IS. Ben is working in Easton, Pa., and could be reached at last report at 75 N. 4th St. 
The engagement of Miss Carolyn Moore, Kewanee, 111., and .A.L Mc-GANN, '21, South Bend, Ind., was announced in December. 
Personals 
{. -4 
1880-1885 Prof. Robt. M. Anderson, Stevens Inst, of Tech, Hoboken, N. J. 
The ALUMNUS is pleased to print below the following list of members of the early graduating Classes, com­piled after three years of exhaustive correspondence by Dr. SAMUEL P. TERRY, M. D., who is still at the New Highland Sanitarium, Mar­tinsville, Indiana. 
LIVING Prof. Robert M. Anderson, Stevens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, 
N.J. Eugene F. Arnold, LL.B., Wni. H. Arnold, M. D., Washington, D. C. Frank M. Bell, Ex. Chief of Police, Lima, Ohio. John B. Berteling, M. D, South Bend, Indiana. 
William Connolly, M. D., Cresco, Iowa. Casey, John, Merchant, Erie, Pa. 
Devoto, Prof. F. B. Abstracting and Conveyancing, Ogden, Utah. Dulaney, Hector B., Oil and Real 

Estate, Elks Club, Los Angeles, Cailf. Michael F. Healy, LL. B., Snell Bldg., Ft. Dodge, Iowa. Gray, W. W., Presdt. Citizens Nat'l. 
Bank, Evansville, Indiana. Hale, Thomas, Lumber, Pryor, Okla. Herman, John C. (Retired) Des 
Moines, Iowa. Krost, Joseph, M. D, Chicago, III. Kuhn, Ferd E., Merchant, 422 
Union St., Nashville, Tenn. 
Kuhn, John, Mishawaka, Indiana. Kelley, W. J., M. D., Milwaukee, Wis. McCue, Prof. Martin J., Notre Dame. Indiana. 
McCarthy, Wm. J., Western and Southern Life Insurance Co., Cincin­nati, Ohio. 
McKinnery, Rev. Thos. J., Ohio, 111. O'Neill, Gen. Joseph P., (Retired) Portland, Oregon. Pollock, Ben H., Lumber, Arcade Bldg., St Louis, JIo. Spaulding, Sam, LL. B., Lebanon, 
Ky. Solon, Rev. James, De Kalb, 111. Stitzel, Louis W., Tiffin, Ohio. Scanlan, Judge Kickham, 1321 Ber­
wyn Ave., Chicago, 111. Smith, Joseph, Stock Raiser, Cir­cleville, Ohio. ScholfieJd, Ben, Farmer, Marshall, Illinois. Tracy, George S., Lawyer, Bur­lington, Iowa Thiele, Very Rev. Chas. H., St. Peter's Square, Ft. Wayne, Ind. Terry, Samuel P., JI. D., 1831 San Jose Ave., Alameda, California. Van Dusen, Chas. B., 326 Portland Ave, Oglesby, Illinois. Wall, Frank X., LL. B., L. & N. 
R. R., Louisville, Ky. George Witwer, South Bend, Ind. Zahm, Dr. .\lbert F., Cosmos Club, 
Washington, D. C. 
DEAD -•Vrmijo, J. C, Albuquerque, New-
Mexico. Bums, Michael, Washington, D. C. Bloom, Francis. W., Indiana. Burger, A. J., M. D. Brooklyn. 
N. Y. 1926 B.vrne, Joseph E. 1926. Bryce, James, Des Moines, Iowa. Clark, Geo. E , LL. B., South Bend, 
Ind., Oct. 1909. Clements, Louis, Ky. Clarke, Frank, Columbus, Ohio. Cleaiy, W. S., Ky., Drowned July 
3, 1883. Conway, Jas. J., LL. B., Illinois, 
May, 1926. Callahan, Thos. E , LL. B. Coleman, Prof. John, California, 
1914. Delaney, James, M. D., Erie, Penna. 

Donahue, Daniel, LL. B., Chicago, 
111. Ewing, John G., Aug. 2, 1927. Eaton, M. B. Evers, Rev. Luke, New York, 1926. Falvy, James, and Mark Falvy, 
Winamac, Indiana. Gallagher, F. W., Massachusetts. Hagan, George L., Banker, St. 
Augustine, HI, Oct., 20, 1928. Harrington, D. A., LL. B., Boston, 
Mass., 1896. Healy, Thos., LL. B., Iowa, 1909. Hagan, Pat. and Chas. Hagan, Ohio. Keenan, Alex., Omaha, Neh., July, 
1922. Keenan, Robert, Sioux Falls, S. D., 
Nov. 1924. Kelly, John M. Kinney, John P., Ohio, 1SS5. Kavanaugh, Thomas, Chicago, 1926. Larkiri, Pat. B., Loogootee, Ind., 
1916. Larkin, J. C, LL. B, Pottsville, Pa. McGorrisk, W. B., and Ed. McGor­
risk, Des Moines, Iowa. McEinery, M. J., LL. B., Illinois. Murdock, Samuel, Mar. 22, 1921. 
McDermott, Chas., Merchant, Stock­port, Ohio., Sept., 20, 1927. MoUoy, J. J., M. D., Ky. McGrath, Rev. J. B., New York, 
1926. Marlett, James R., Vicksburg, Miss. Noonan, Thos. F., Boston, Mass. 
Noble, Hany, M D., Feb. 1927, Cleveland, Ohio. Otis, Rev. Elmer, New Orleans, La., January, 1921. Orrick, E. E., Lawyer, Texas, Sept. 1, 1913. O'Connor, Rev. W. J., May 15, 1907. Osher, Joseph N., Chicago, 111. Porter, Chas. and Henry Porter, Wisconsin. Proctor, L. M., Elkhart, Ind., Nov. 20, 1924. Quinn, Frank A., M. D., Peoria, 111. Feb. 5, 1896. Quinn, Joseph, Illinois, 1924. 
Quinn, Rev. John P., 111., and Rev. Jas. J. Quinn, Rock Island, 111. 1928. Rhodius, George, Indianapolis, Ind. 
Sugg, Judge George, Chicago, HI., Apl. 24, 1893. Steis, Henry, LL. B., South Bend, Ind. Shugrue, J. J, LL. B., Washington, D. C, 1901. Scholfield, Warren, Marshall, HI., Simms, Thos., LL. B., Ky., Aug. 14, 1901. Simms, Harry, Illinois. Smith, Frank, Circleville, Ohio. 
Smith, G. Harry, Beading, Penna. 
Tinley, Chas. A., Aug. 17, 1892. 

Terry, Percy E., Rochester, Ind., Oct. 1905. 
Young, "Brigham," Illinois. 
Zarley, Chas H., Joliet, Illinois. 
Dr. J. B. BERTELING, M. D., B. S. 

•80; M. S. '84, and A. M. '89, has just been appointed a member of the board cf health by the new mayor of the City of South Bend. For some years Dr. Berteling has acted as secretary of the board, and will continue in this capacity. 
1889 

The Class of '89 is without a Sec­retary as a result of the death last month of Hon. JAMES V. O'DON­NELL. Suggestions of members of the Class are requested by the Editor for filling this position. 
1900 Francis O'Shaughnessy, 10 S. La Salle St., Chicago, Illinois. 
In recent issues of the ALUMNUS there were announcements of the deaths of JAMES P. FOGARTY, '00, of Philadelphia, and ALBERT KA­CHUR, '00, of Manila, Philippine Is­lands. Back in 1899 Fogarty, a stu­dent of the law school, was tele­grapher at the University, and Al­bert Kachur, a student in the engi­neering school. Both of them assisted Professor Jerome J. Greene of the School of Science, in the first suc­cessful experiments of wireless teleg­raphy. 
ANGUS D. MCDONALD, '00, is on the Board of Directors of the Guar­anty Trust Company of New York, the second largest bank in America. 
1903 Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. BIdg, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
ALBERT J. FORTIN, '03, who was captain of the '02 Football Team, has for many years been successfully con­ducting railroad contracting business and is now atteneling chiefly to his in­vestments. His home is in Kankakee, Illinois. 
1904 Robert Proctor, Monger BIdg., Elkhart, Ind. 

BYRON V. KANALEY recently gave the '04 I. Q. a lift by scoring 90 in a daily "quiz" conducted along the intelligence test lines by a Chica­go newspaper. Mr. Kanaley's pic­ture, his affiliations with N. D. as lay trustee and former president of the Alumni Association, accompanied the questions. The score, by the way, was considered excellent by the paper. 
1905 Daniel S. O'Coimor, 10 S. La SaOe St., Chicago, niinois. 
FRANK J. SHAUGHNESSY, '05, is living in Ottawa, Canada, and is general manager of the Ottawa branch of the Solway-Mills Company of Toronto, Canada, stock and bonds. He is the father of eight sons. It would appear he has material here upon which to apply his fine talent as a "Coach." 
A letter, the first in some time, locates WALTER A. STEVENS, C. E. '05, as the assistant chief engineer for the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Mr. Stevens is located at 913 W. 10th Street, Topeka. 
1906 Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen Bldg, Spokane, Wash. 

JOHN F. GUSHING, '06, Chicago,. Illinois, is president of the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Company. His company has just completed the job of straightening the Chicago River, one of the outstanding marine engi­neering projects of the country. 
FRANK A. MCCARTHY, '06, of Elgin, Illinois, is serving his sixth term in the legislature of Illinois, is Chairman of the Public Utilities Com­mittee. He ranks as one of the out­standing lawyers of his community. 
1911 Fred L. Steers, 1666 First Natl. Bank BIdg., Chicago, Dlinois. 
J. L. FISH is now at 73 Chestnut St., North Arlington, N. J. He writes that the University Band made a big impression with its appearance in New York for the Army game. 
FRANK D. MCELHINNEY, a stu­dent at N. D. in 1910-11, is with the Becton, Dickinson & Co., drugs and leather goods, Rutherford, N. J. Mr. McElhinney was registered at N. D. from Hastings, Nebraska. 
1920 Leo a Ward, 1012 Black BIdg, Los Angdes, Calif. 

Dear Leo: 
I know that you will excuse the typing and any other errors in this letter as I am attempting to do the steno's work this morning. Seems that she has a pain sidewise, induced in our first real taste of winter. Per­sonally, Leo, I have been on the sick list for the past year or'so and had to remove myself to other climes. I selected Northern Michigan and I must say that I have been greatly benefitted by so doing. Returning to Fort Wayne, I became associated with Guerrier & Company, Invest­ment Securities, as counsel, with many side duties. It is delightful work and intensely interesting. This might be said because I have regained considerable of my lost pep. How­ever, I expect that I shall soon be in Indianapolis for these people as they expect to make that city their head­quarters. This, because of its central location for the state, and because of its being the capitol. 
I had the pleasure of seeing the game Nov. 16 in Chicago and I must admit that it was a game that had all the high-lights, climaxes and anti-cli­maxes possible in any football game. U, S. C. brought along a team which knew its football from the ground up. They met up with a team just as smart and the result, of course, was a beautiful battle with honors, in­dindually speaking, about even. Team play soon demonstrated itself and Notre Dame won. The game shall live in my memory for a long time and I think all who wei-e able to see it will retain many impressions of it. Naturally the crowd itself made a spectacle rarely passed in its cosmo­politan make-up. Really, many a Chi­cago Jew became a hyphenated Irish­man as did the Swedes, Norwegians, Italians and French. It was good business and made the Northwestern game a sell-out. 
Here's hoping that you have com­pletely recovered from the disability you have been carrying around for the past few days, and that life is treating you and youi's to the best. Give my best regai-ds to any of the boys whom you might see and retain my wishes for plenty of success and happiness for yourself. 
EMMETT EOHYANS, 

134 E. Berry St., 
Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Dear Leo: 

Your letter of October 26 ha%'ing taken nine years to reach me, I think I am somewhat premature when I write you within six weeks. I feel I should have taken at least nine weeks but that would be too near the end of the year. 
In the East we are all Just recover­ing from the chill we received at the annual Army-Notre Dame game, despite the fact that I have heard from numerous sources that the bottle concession for the Yankee Stadium was more profitable this year than ever before. 
I see LARRY DOYLE and WAL­
TER DOUGLAS quite frequently; 
GEORGE SULLIVAN makes his ap­
pearance once in a while and FRANK 
SIULLIGAN is more in evidence now 
than when he was at school, due to 
the addition of forty or fifty pounds 
on his small frame. He likes the 
mission style of architecture. Some 
of the other fellows drop in from time 
to time and usually every Thursday 
we have some of the boys at the 
luncheon. 
I suppose since you have become the 
wealthiest lawyer on the Pacific Coast 
that you will come East in June and 
spend a few days at reunion. Why 
not try to i-ound up most of the fel­
lows for this occasion, as we may be 
able to have a good time? 
I was out there last June and en­
joyed myself very much. Your name­
sake, LEO AVAED, and JIM CON­
NERTON are, as you may know, very 
Reverend Fathers doing their utmost 
to disillusion Freshmen.­
Write me a note when you have 
time and if the delay must be in some 
order of nine, make it nine days. 
JOHN T. BALFE, 
John C. McNamara Org., 
Graybar Bldg., 
New York City. 
Dear Leo: 
I just came from the St. Joseph Valley Alumni luncheon, and we're talking over the proposition of the yearly football banquet. We limited the sale of tickets to 925, and today discovered that the entire allotment was sold, and that 150 more had been promised. Tickets have been out about ten days, and the banquet is to be December 4. I think that this is a pretty good showing and from all indications the banquet tickets will be as hard to secure as football tickets. I have seen a lot of football this year, having been to the three games in Chicago, and Pittsburgh, to see the Carnegie Tech game, and this Saturday I am going to the North­westei-n. Its a great team this year, and I surely hope the boys will pull through the next two games without defeat. 
HARRY RICHWINE, 207 Christman Bldg., South Bend, Ind. My dear Leo: 
I was very glad to receive your let­ter of October 26th, and to know that you have been appointed correspond­ing secretary for the Class of 1920 of the University of Notre Dame. 
I believe your idea of getting an article on everyone of the boys of that class is an excellent one, but I fear 
that anything I may say about myself 

would be rather uninteresting. How­
ever, if it will do any good, here goes. 
Shortly after leaving school I went 
to Jlexico as a geologist for the Pan-
American Petroleum and Tx-ansport 
Company with whom I wandered for 
nearly seven years in Mexico and 
South America. About two years ago 
I left the employ of this company and 
came back to the United States, that 
is, Texas, and I went into business for 
myself there. One year ago I decided 
to return to my home state and since 
then have organized a little oil com­
pany here, and am now trying to eke 
out an e-xistence in that business in 
this state. Outside of that and the 
additional fact that I am now married 
and have a child, nothing of interest 
has happened in my life since leaving 
school. I have tried hard this year to 
accumulate enough shecles to take a 
trip to Chicago, and see at least the 
Notre Dame - Southern California 
game, but from the present outlook 
of things it does not look very en­
couraging. 
In all my years of wandering I have not had the pleasure of meeting any of my classmates, and I haven't the slightest idea where any of them are at present. I trust that this idea of yours will meet with a wide response from our class members, and it will give us once more a point of contact. 
With kindest personal regards and every good wis'i for your continued success, I am, 
0. A. L.4RRAZ0L0, JR., Cibola Petroleum Co., 
Santa Fe, New Mexico. My dear Leo: 
I assure you that it was with gen­uine pleasure that I received your let­ter of October 26. I had intended writing you some time ago after I learned that you had been appointed Corresponding Secretary for the 1920 class. 
About the only available infonna­tion I have concerning myself is that we ai-e the proud parents of three childi-en: Jane aged 5 years, Robert 3'.2 years, and Virginia Mary, 10 months. I believe that I hold the record for ha^^ng the largest family out of our class. 
I have been in constant touch with HUMPHREY "DICK" LESLIE and RICHARD B. SWIFT. "Dick" Les­lie is practicing in Waverly, Iowa, and Dick Swift is a member of the firm of Smith & Swift in Davenport. 
I will be glad to keep you advised of local conditions affecting the mem­

Januai-ii, 19S9 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
hers of our class and hope that when I do write, I will not be prevailing upon any of your valuable time. 
LEO HASSENAUEK, 
c/o Donald Richberg, 
333 N. Michigan Ave., 
Chicago, 111. 

The ALUMNUS has received a veiy interesting bulletin from the Coj'ocutena Agricultural College, lo­cated at La Libertad, Comayagua, Honduras. The school is the materia­lization of the efforts and ideals ot POMPILIO ORTEGA. Ortega worked his way through three years at Notre Dame to secure his B. S. in Agri­culture. He was offered, an auto­biographical sketch in the bulletin states, a professorship in tropical agriculture at Notre Dame, and was also offered a position in Ai'gentina. Both of these he refused to return to his native Honduras that his country might have the benefit of his training. For four years he was director of the Men's Normal School, and for eight months was Minister of Public In­struction in Hondui-as. He resigned to begin the work of the new agri­cultural college. The bulletin states that the college, while it is recognized by the government as vital, is in need of a great deal of support to realize Ortega's goal. 
1922 

Gerald Ashe, 1024 Monroe Ave., 
Rochester, N. Y. 

HUNK ANDERSON is leaving his post at St. Louis University to ac­company JIM PHELAN ex Purdue mentor to the University of Washing­ton. Phelan will be head coach of football and Hunk will coach the line. The famous guard combination of CLIPPER SMITH and Hunk Ander­son will not be forgotten at Notre Dame. 
Bill Daly is with the VVorthington Pump Company in Cincinnati. 
TUFFY HART is advocating the erection of another new Union Station in Cleveland. Yes, Tuffy is still con­nected with the Cleveland Builder's Supply Co. 
JOHN PAUL CULLEN is hobnob­bing with senatoi-s, ambassadors, and what not down in Washington. It is rumored that John Paul recently had breakfast at the White House. 
JUDD HYLAN spent the Christmas holidays in South Bend. Judd makes his home in Penn Yan, N. Y., but can­not resist the urge to return occa­sionally to the old school and its environs. 
CHUCK FOLEY is in the legal department of the Union Pacific Rail­road System. He is stationed at Portland, Oregon. 
BERNARD J. MCCAFFREY, who was superintendent of the city water works during the last South Bend city administration, has resigned from that office to devote his attention to the McCaffrey Co., wholesale electri­cal equipment, in which he is asso­ciated with his brother, Joseph J. McCaffrey. During his administra­tion of the city water works, many improvements were made which have had an important part in the rapid development of the city. 
1924 

James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave., 
New York City. 

JOSEPH COLMAN RYAN, erst­while member of the staff of the self-confessed World's Gi-eatest Newspa­per, has joined the English faculty of the Univei'sity and is re-polishing the five-year tarnish that Chicago had placed on the Ryan surface of '24. 
1925 

John W. Scallan, Pullman Co., 79 W. 
Adams St., Chicago, III. 

WILLIAM E. VOOR, who combined law and journalism at Notre Dame in a course distasteful to both lawyers and journalists of that golden era, has forsaken the last hold he had on journalism (a firm grip, by the way, as night city editor of the South Ben<l News-Times). Bill has been taken in­to the now designated law firm of Pyle, Gunder & Voor, with offices in the Associates Building, South Bend. Bill, Mrs. Voor and daughter Mar­jorie, live at 31S W. Marion St., where the Kentucky accent (right from old Paducah) gives a soft touch to the neighborhood. 
GEORGE CHAO writes from P. 0. Box 44, Fribourg, Suisse: It is a sign of your good memory and lasting friendship that you sent your well-edited "The Notre Dame ALUMNUS"' to me. I appreciate much and value the magazine. Please kindly con­tinually send me this good paper which is the unique means of com­munication between the Notre Dame men in America and abroad. I thank you heartily. . . Is there any un­claimed mail for me ? If there is any I hope it is not a love letter! TOM COOKE was here a few days ago. We had good times and talked over every-think about Notre Dame. Cooke is now in Paris (Nov. 24) with, his wife to see how- the Frenchmen built up the Cathedral of Notre Dame. My kindest wishes to you all and my friends. 
A letter from the Registrar's Of­fice brought the following interesting facts from the '25 line-up: 
TOM LOFTUS is working for the Brooklyn Gas Co. He taught a year and a half at St. Francis in Brooklyn. "DOC" EDWIN FLYNN is using some of his civil engineering in the real estate department of the Public Sen-ice Co., in Newark, N. J. He was in Florida during the real estate I boom, and spent a year in Honduras with the United Fruit Co. MIICE ADRIAN is with the Westinghouse Electric Co. in New Y'ork. MAC BRULE, who has been with the Gen­eral Electric Co. in Schenectady since graduation, was transferred to New York last June. AUSTIN REILLY has been with the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. since he returned from Oregon in September. DAN J. O'­NEIL, 9 W. 16th St., New York City, is still with the A. T. & T. Co. 
The Editor neglected to mention in last month's magazine that O'Neil had moved from Berkeley Place, Brooklyn, "Little Notre Dame," to what seemed to the uninitiated eyes of one accustomed to South Bend to be a "studio apartment" at the address mentioned above. Service lift, beamed ceiling, balcony for addressing public, etc, and the location! It certainly did the Editor good to see another of our boys making good. VIC Y'AW­MAN, from the outlying province of Rochester, will testify to these mani­festations. 
ALBER'T P. HEEB has joined the ranks of the Notre Dame city at­torneys, having been appointed to that responsible position in Connersville, Ind., by the new administration there on January 3. -41 is a native of Con­nersrille and was graduated from the Connersville High School. He entered Indiana and was transferred to Notre Dame. He returned to Connersville immediately after graduation and be­gan the practice of law there. He is admitted to practice in the supreme court of the State, and the United 
States district court at Indianapolis. 
1926 

Gerald W. Hayes, 4700 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, III. My dear Jim: 
May I take this opportunity, Jim, to offer my bestest wishes to all the members of the class for a New Year brimful of hapP'ness and good for­tune. Although I thought of the whole bunch at Christmas tide, due to pres­sure of final Fall term e.\aminations. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Januari/, 19-10 
I remembered no one with greetings. 
I am pleased to be able to start the New Year off with messages from a few of the boys. About a month ago —due to my lassitude it missed the December ALUMNUS—there was a very delightful letter from Jack Adams. Dated November the twen­tieth some of the news ran: 
"Last Saturday the Notre Dame Club of New York had open house at their headquarters in the McAlpin Hotel. About one hundred alumni listened to the Southern California game over the radio. The afternoon was extremely pleasant because of the opportunity offered to introduce the younger men to the older ones who were there . . . Representatives of many classes attended the affair but of the '26 group were the follow­ing: JIM DWYER, who is now the father of a little girl; NICK SMITH, with whom I had a fine chat. ED FALLON, who is in the law book business and who now has his own firm for distributing law books. TOM and JOE BURKE, who are loyal to all Notre Dame affairs; ED BYRNE, who is now married and who has moved to Grantwood, New Jersey; DOC GELSON completed the '26 group. BILL REID, you know, is in the Sem­inary. Each of these boys has spoken about our having group meetings often so that we will have to begin something. Already I have made a list and am deciding on the date for a dinner to be held in December of this old Metropolitan Club group, to be followed in January by a Com­munion breakfast. Other persons in our class with whom I have only spoken to over the telephone are: TOM SHERIDAN, PAUL BRODER­ICK, ED HARG.AN, ED DUGGAN, JAKE PURCELL, JIM SILVER, BOB CAHILL, LARRY KEEFE and WIL­BUR MCELROY . . . JIM WHELAN is still on his honeymoon—in Paris now, I believe. At the bachelor dinner that we gave Jim came the 
•Burkes, the Byrnes, Gelson, Nick Smith, Jim Dwyer, and even ADAM WALSKI, who happened to be in town for some preparations he was making to go abroad for the General Motors Export Company. JIM MAHER came to dinner, too. It was good to see Jim and he told so many things about our fellow classmates in the West. When last seen Jim was bound for Denver to look into the af­fairs of the Union Carbide Company there .. . At Pittsburgh during the Carnegie game I saw and talked with DAN BRADY, JOHN MCMULLEN, JOHN RYAN, BOB .ANDREWS, JOE 
BACH, JOE SHEA and others . . . 
ED HARGAN dropped over to Mont­
clair for dinner one evening last sum­
mer and we had a grand time com­
paring notes. Ed is with the Cen­
tral Hanover Trust Company and has 
become an expert on taxes . . ." 
And thus Jack sends a letter which 
I certainly appreciate. I must apolo­
gize for my tardiness in sending it to 
you, Jim. I know Jack will pardon 
and keep us supplied with fresh notes. 
And then two weeks ago cometh a letterhead Turner Glass Company, Terre Haute, Indiana. JIM GLYNN favors us with a brief report: 
"I suppose you are or soon will be calling yourself "Doctor." How much longer is it? (Compliment here omit­ted and intermission ruled for gentle but general laughter—pardon me, Jim!) How are the other fellows? Is JIMMY STACK still with you? (See below) .. . I had an announcement from WARD LEAHY a short time ago. He is now married. And so is JOE DIENHART. He is coaching at Cathedral in Indianapolis, having taken JOE SEXTON'S place. Joe is married and has a dandy boy. He is still at the law. LYNCH is here in 
T. H. working for his Dad in the in­surance business .. . I am credit man­ager with this concern. I also handle the legal and patent cases. My work takes me all over the country so I often see N. D. men . . . sorry I cannot see or write more of the boys in our class." 
Jim has really been faithful. I am sure we vn[\ have more news from him on the Notre Dame men he runs into during his varied journeys into the sticks. 
With holiday wishes came this note from Mr. and Mrs. Bob Graham. The last line can be attributed only to Bob. 
"I have nothing to account as my sole means of existence in the ALUM­NUS. Though married, X am still endeavoring to be an engineer—de­signing bridges for the Department of Public Works and Buildings here in Springfield (Illinois) . . . Where in hell is ANDY CONLIN?" 
Andy, you old mysterio, give Bob an account of yourself. I am not at the restaurant any longer and you'll miss the good ser\-ices of a good head-waiter. 
On the back of his Christmas greet­ing ART SULLIVAN writes a merry "Hello Jerry" and follows with: 
"Read about you each month in the ALUMNUS and have been goin' to write to you some time. I am here in Detroit with the Royal Indemnity Company of New York I have been 

located here since I graduated. I 
make a trip to Chicago about once a 

month for a week-end. I hope to see 
you there some time. What's your 
'phone number?" . . . 

Here in parenthesis .-Vrt accounts 
for his Chicago journeys by threaten­
ing to go "knotty" and soon! Art, 
my 'phone number is either Mans­
field 1471 or Sheldrake 1300. And if 
you are sure that you come to Chicago 
only over the week-end each month— 
what's the girl's 'phone number? 

Ward Leahy's announcement which, due to change of address, reached me actually weeks late reads: Mr. and Mrs. Welch announce the marriage of their daughter, Anne Laura, to— well, just Ward. The date was Sat­urday, the twenty-third of November; place—Syracuse; the at-home—twen­ty-seven Stanwix Street, Albany, New 
•York. Bestest—Anne and Ward! 
There were Yuletide greetings from many of the boys which delighted and at the same time embarrassed me. One in particular, however, I want to mention and that was a beautiful card from KEITH ROCHE at the Amer­ican College in Rome, Italy. No news was appended. But I here ask Keith, JIMMY MORAN and the rest of our crowd studjing abroad to write one of us a letter for the ALUMNUS. I know I speak for the whole class when I say that we are interested in what those boys are doing. There's no use of their being lost Many thanks, Keith—and the greetings to all the men. 
Now, Jim, note my change of ad­dress. Officially I now reside at 4700 West Jackson Boulevard. So far as business goes I am now at the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company in Evanston, Illinois, having succeeded Jim Stack as night doctor (I believe the payroll reads "nurse.") at that mill. During the day, of course, I am still exposed to medicine at North­western. Mail may reach me at any of the three addresses, but please use the Evanston address for the ALUM­NUS. And while talking about change of address, under STACK write St. Vincent's Hospital, Seventh Avenue and Eleventh Street, New York City. Two days ago Jim left for New York. The big city is quite strange to Seu­mas and I hope some of the crowd back there will give him a buzz. Jim and URB GEBHARD finished this doctors' college last week. Geb is with EDDIE ANDERSON and DAVE MURPHY at St. Joseph's Hospital in this city, but I believe he will soon 

Januarij, 19-10 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 157 
transfer to the Milwaukee County 
Hospital. Just a year from this date 
I hope to send you another change of 
residence—that of yours truly! 
Jim, my Joints creak. There's lots 
more but we'll save that for February 
Jerry Hayes. 

The ALUMNUS is happy to report 
the announcement of the ordination of 
REV. KEITHEN L. ROCHE in Rome, 
on Dec. 21, 1929. 
GEORGE "DUTCH" O'DAY writes 
from a new address, 1311 Buhl Bldg., 
Detroit, where he is branch manager 
for the Clow Gasteam Heating Co. 
A letter from Mrs. Laura Davis, 
South Bend, states that her son, DR. 
FRED R. DAVIS, is now established 
in the practice of osteopathy at 54 
Upper Berkeley St. W. L, London, 
England. Mrs. Davis has recently 
returned from several months abroad 
with her son. 
1928 

Louis Buckley, Notre Dame, Ind., 
Secretary. 

BERNIE CROWLEY broke his long period of silence by coming across with a letter from 3203 Eads Ave., St. Louis, Mo., Bernie is taking dentistry at St. Louis University. Bernie is the first '28 man I have heard from who is taking dentistry. Let's hear from the rest of you (ien­tists. 
Another journalist makes good. GEORGE KELLY who made a name for himself before leaving N. D. in his chosen profession is even better known for his work on the Youngs­town Vindicator. Keep up the good work, George. 
ART MITIGUY writes from Bur­lington, Vermont, where he is with the Burlington Drug Co. Art. says to say "hello" to FRANK CREADON and all the fellows. I haven't heard a word from Frank. Now isn't that a fine way for a former class secretary to turn out. 
DICK TRANT continues to break hearts in Cambridge, Nebraska as fast as he did in South Bend. Besides taking care of his social engagements, Dick manages to supply the farmers of "those parts" with hardware and implements from the firm of Trant & Kelly. 
The men of '28 who are taking that awful step will be interested in the easy payment plan offered by the Charak Furniture Company of Phila­delphia. JACK FLYNN is with this outfit and spends his spare time in the Law School of the University of Penn. CHRIS SHULL is a classmate 
Local Alumni Club Meetings 
Send Notice of Meetings of Clubs Not Listed to Abcmni Secretary, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
CLEVELAND: Mondays—^year round luncheon meetings—^the AUerton 
NEW YORK CITY: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—Fraternity Club, 22 East 38th Street. 
CHICAGO: Fridays, 12:00—luncheon meetings—^Ivory Room, Mandel's. 
DETROIT: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—12:30—Frontenac Inn, 42 Monroe Avenue. 
PITTSBURGH: Thursdays—luncheon—Hotel Henry. 
LOS ANGELES: Wednesdays—luncheon—12:15—University Club. 
CINCINNATI: First and third Tuesdays of each month—12:15 noon-Broadway Hotel. 
NEW JERSEY: Monthly meeting—7:30 p. m.—First Monday—New­ark Athletic Club. 
INTER-MOUNTAIN: Monthly luncheon—First Tuesday—University Club, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
KENTUCKY: Generally the second Tuesday of each month—different locations. Call Edward Pfeiffer, 407 Martin Brown Arcade, Louisville. 
WABASH VALLEY: Four times yearly—January, April, October, December—Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Indiana. Call H. R. Kamp, 1207 Wells Street. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY: Monthly luncheon meeting—Last Monday. Call Paul Castner, Studebaker Corporation, South Bend. 
DES MOINES: Monthly meeting—no regular date. Call Carleton Beh. 
JOLIET: Monthly meeting—First Tuesday. Call Edward King, 301 Ruby Street, for details. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA: Monthly luncheon—first Tuesday—Clift Hotel, San Francisco. 
FORT WAYNE: Monthly dinner—no definite date. Call John W. Eggeman, president, or Thomas McKieman, secretary. 
ROCHESTER: First and third Wednesdays—12:15—Chamber of Com­merce Private Dining Room. 
SYRACUSE: Monthly luncheon—second Wednesday, 12:15—Schraffs. 
of Jack at Penn. Jack writes that 
JOHN CAVANAUGH is also in the 
Quaker City selling for the Chestnut 
Street Engra\'ing Company. 

PAUL WENDLAND is manager of 
the Laclies-Rea<ly-to-\Vear in his 
father's department store in Bay City, 
•Michigan. Paul says that WALKER BOLTZ, '27, is with the National City Co. of New York and is located also in Bay City. 
JOHN MCLAUGHLIN is in the em­ploy of the Penn. Dept. of Highways, with headquarters at Hollidaysburg. He will be glad to see any of the fel­lows who happen to be taking the Lincoln or Wni. Penn Highways through Pennsylvania. 
FRED PFORTNER writes from 
1224 N. Alabama Stieet, Indianapolis, 
that he is doing his best to make 
Indianapolis the best lighted city in 
the country. He is working for the 
Indianapolis Power and Light Co. 
AL SCHNURR is in the General 
Contracting business with offices at 
1101 West Jefferson Street, San­
dusky, Ohio. 

JOE GERAGHTY is with a broker­
age iirm in Rochester, N. Y. Joe's 
address is 49 Grett Road. 

Due to the fact that the snow storm blew the Class Secretary through Chicago at Christmas time he was un­able to see the '28 gang there. He did, however, find JOE LANGTON located in Galesburg, Illinois. Joe is still with Goodyear and makes Hu­merus trips to Peoria. Anyone trav­elling through Illinois cannot miss BILL O'MARA who is still inter­viewing farmers for the Illinois Bell Telephone Company. The Class Sec­retary dropped in on TOM MAHON at the Board of Trade in Duluth Tom seems to be a prosperour; grain buyer and has in the same otRce with him, EMMET DONOHUE, who you will remember was with our class for a year. They both send tiie gang their best. Tom tells me that the great whiskey tenor, DON R.AU is helping Graham Bros, run their automobile plant. JOE BENDA has had a very successful season coaching at Cathe­dral High, in Duluth. 
JOE DALEY, ED. CUNNINGHAM and BILL SIDENFADEN, '29 at­tended an anniversary Mass held for the soul of EUGENE ICELLY at St. Vincent Church, Los Angeles, on De­cember 26th. HOW.A.RD PHALIN visited Eugene's grave this summer when he was in Denver. 
FRANCIS P. BEGGAN and JAMES 
E. WHITE were among the N. D. lawyers to pass the Illinois Bar exams last month. 
1929 

Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin 
St., Indianapolis, Ind., Secretary. 
JOSEPH S SULLIVAN is now a 
member of the Bar of both the States 
of Michigan and Illinois. After suc­
cessfully passing both examinations 
for admission to the Bar he is located 
in Chicago in the office of O'Shaugh­
nessy & O'Shaughnessy, 10 S. La-
Salle Street. 

DONALD BALDWIN, HAROLD REYNOLDS and JOSEPH S. SUL­LIVAN were among the '29 men w^lio passed the Illinois Bar exams last month. Joe also passed the Michigan Bar. 
"Comes now the informant, JOHN HARRINGTON of 2029 Maple -Ave­nue in the City of Evanston, State of Illinois, and for cause of action de­poses and says: that prominent at Northwestern University is . BOB ROUCHE who plodded all the way from Erie, Pa., to matriculate in the Graduate School of Business Organ­ization (where John is also a star pupil). Then there's good R.AY DRY­M.ALSKI who deserted the famous Harvard accent after three days fee trial to seek legal lore at Evanston. LEO REISSE rounds out the mem­bership of the class' conculate at the 
N. U., and is reported to be strong for co-education. We don't know, we only tell what we hear. What ho! 
"It's in the air." What is? Oh, all about BUD HOOVER'S maneuvering one of the Oak Park, 111., radio com­panies to bigger and boastinger things. Bud avers that his is the best there is . . . s'stubad we can't remem­ber the name of Bud's radio so Jim Armstrong could collect the usual ad­vertising rates. Drop us a line, Bud. 
"The crew" that's making Mil­waukee famous includes ANGELLO GALDABINI. With the Arthur Young Company accountants, he's cutting quite a figure in the nation's capitol (Post-Volstead). 
'Member the steam radiators in the campus halls? S'alright— who wouldn't say just that ? Anyway JIM DIGAN'S manufacturing company furnished the same Dowsi in Logans­port, Ind,, they seem to think a lot of Jim. Witness: Jim was elected to the board of directors of the Digan Com­pany in June; elected secretary-treas­urer of the corporation in August and was married in Sfeptember. Un-hah, tha's a record! Incidentally don't buy Frigidaire stock, Digan reports that "business is good!'' 
We Sherlock that PETE MORGAN and FRANK ICELLY are brightening some school in the East. Their friends 
received cards post-marked "College Station, New York" and suspect Columbia. Tlie greeting card season gave away the fact that BERNIE BYRD now is having those scented billets sent to the old home town. Lake Charles, Louisiana. PAUL HEMMING and the University of Wisconsin are to be linked up closely in speech these days. Paul's a great student—and then, Madison has its charms. 
What's in a name? Well, ISADORE BURKE found that you can't get away from the propensities implied in one. He's in the clothing business. His company is one of the largest in the wholesale game in Chicago, and it goes almost without saying, Isa­dore is going great guns. Then there's LARRY DE LEERS who is with Carson, Fine and Scott, a com­petitor, by the way, of BILL MC­ELLEN, who is giving his all for dear old Marshall Field's. DICK HAUGH, formerly of Delphi, Indiana, has for­saken the town pump for Cook County. He and MIKE O'BRIEN account for the magnetic attraction that the Western Electric has these days. 
Looping the Loop in Chicago you're liable to run into LEO LYNN almost any time Leo, (and we have this from authentic sources) is one of the "comers" in the Bond Department of the Central Ilinois Trust Company. Beside being a success in the money woi'ld, Leo is showing signs of being 
-John Hanack Series ­

A Problem for Home Makers 
Is the management of The Family Income. 
O
UR HOME BUDGET SHEET is designed to cover one month's record of income and outgo. 
It is an Account Sheet for both the Beginner and the Budget-wise. 
Sent FREE on request. 
Inquiry Bureau 
UFC INSURANCE CoMnMnr" 
197 Clarendon St, Boston. Mass. 
Please send me FREE copy of tKe John Hancock Home Budget Sheet. (I en. close 2c. to Cover postsgc) 
Name. Addresa 

KXi, Ooer Sixtgsix YCOTM in Btuinas — •• 
Janimri;, 1929 THE NoTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
The Notre Dame Alumnus Business and Professional Directory 
• MilllilllllllillllllltMIIIIIIHIIIIttlllltllliillllltl ttllirilllllttllinitllllltlllM 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiii IIMIIIUIIUIIIUIIttllllUIIMI 3 
Established 1911 

COOPER-KANAIEY and CO. 
FIRST MORTGAGE INVESTJIENTS 120 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. Tel. Franklin 0353. 

IIIIIIIIIIKIIIIIIItllll 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 


POLAR ICE & FUEL COMPANY 
Jobn (Ike) Voedisch, '27 Ass't Manager 

COLUMBUS, OHIO 
Law Offices HAMILTON & KRAMER 

701-3 HUNTINGTON BANK BLDG. 
COLUMBUS, OHIO 

DONALD JL HAanLTON, '12 
YOUR N. D. FRIENDS Want to Do Business With You. 
This is One of Your First Opportunities to Profit as Alumni. 
iiiiiiiiii'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiitiiiiiii 
THE NEW ALUMNUS is a Better but Costlier Magazine. 
Send Copy for the Next Five Issues to 
J. E. ARMSTRONG Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind. 

Ufi claimed Mail 
(From time to time, lists like this will appear. You will confer a favor on these men and the Association by sending in their present address. The Association has not the facilities for tracing lost members.) 
Johnson, Dr. Nickolia S.—'16 Jones, Harry B.—'14 Jones, JJames B.—'10—13 (o.s.) Karasynski, Albert T.—'95 
Kasper, Robert A.—'07 Keeley, Michael H.—'72 Reiser, Raymond J.—'26 Kellev, John .\. Jr.—'25 Kelly, James T.—'94 Kennedy, James H —'26 Kenny, Edward J.—'07 Kenney, Joseph F.—'15 Kerwin, Clarence J.—'24 Killeen, Thomas J.—'16—IS (o.s.) King, Clifton P.—'27 Kline, Clarence J.—'21 Knaus, Malcolm F.—'2C Konzel, William—'21 (Elected) King, HoUis E.—'16 Kramer, James G.—'11 Ivrider, William A.—'25 Krug, George A.—'21 (Elected) Kunert, Charles—'94 Lane, Franklin E.—'90 Langlois, Napoleon E.—'17 Lawless, William F.—'21 Lawrence, William S —'24 LeDuc, Francis—'27 Lenertz, John A.—'10 Lightfoot, Francis L.—'25 Lilla, Robert S.—'21 Lindeman, Joseph F.—'19 Liscombe, Frederick J.—'90 Lomelin, Ignatio F.—'04 Long, Edward T.—'00 Ljmch, Charles H.—'28 •McCabe, James R.—'22 McCabe, John N.—'23 McCaffrey, Patrick R.—'26 (Elected) McBride, Francis B.—'12 McCamie. Edward P.—'15 McCarthy, D.—'SI McCullough, Feli.x—'23 McGahon, Leo J.—'17 McGill, Robert J.—'12 McGinnis, Bernard J.—'74 McGorrisk, William B.—'82 McGovern, Aloysius T.—'13 McGowan, James W.—'25 Mclntyre, Palmer H.—'OS McKee, Dr. Emilius M.—'06 McKee, John '09 McKillip, J. Hale—'27 McLoughlin, William N.—'23 McMahan, Edward—'20 McManus, Francis P.—'96 McSweney, John P.—'12 Madden, John W.—'07 
{To be contimied.) 

f DAYTON, OHIO 
5 •••'•••iiUIIIIIIIIIIKHMIIIillllllitiiiiiuiiilMliinilllMIIIIMMI 
JOSEPH B. MURPHY, '11 
ATIORNEY-AT-LA.W 309-15 Mntnal Home Bldg. Dayton, Ohio 
Murphy & Murphy 
III mill 

I Rale t for the Next Six Issues I $12.50 
: ••iiiiiiiiiitiDtttiiitiiiiiuiiMitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaimiiMiittMiDtti 
I Don't Under-estimate i the Scope of the I ALUMNUS. 
: >llllltllIIIIIIIIII»llllttllllllltllMIIIIIIIU)lltlllltllllltllllllMM 
I Many Commissions I have been lost to N. D. I Men through lack of this I very Imowledge. 
THIS PAGE and several like it should be filled Next Month. 
iititiiiiiiiMiiiiiiMiiiHiiiiiintiinnnHHiiHHiiiHMiiiMfi 
DON'T WAIT to see who else is in. 
That's what is Wrong Now! 

IF YOU CAN USE BUSINESS Take one of these Cards. 
• •lllllltllMtlllMtllllltMl 
Rate is payable by month, in advance, or in June. 
SEND YOUR COPY. 
a sage: he recently travelled to that 
fair and sparkling municipality known 
as Indianapolis. Chicago Club please 
notice. Then there's OSCAK RUST 
who's in the brokerage game on Mich­
igan Avenue along with GEORGE 
COURY, while CHARLIE SCHLIC­
KERT is keeping up the S. W. Strauss 
Company's reputation. CLARENCE 
JANS recently shifted from the Cen­
tral Trust Bank to assume the title 
of Treasurer of Trading for a well-
known bond house. (Sorry the exact 
firm is not known-well enough to the 
secretary pro tem). JOE GAS­
TREICH is in Chicago and is holding 
a similar position according to the 
Windy City spokesman. 

No news yet concerning JERRY 
ROACH. Where or where? .. . And 
BILL KREIG who paused in the midst 
of the Indianapolis social whirl to 
promise a long session and the dope 
on the gang in the East—^well, Bill 
slipped back to Harvard before the 
interview materialized. Not to ap­
pear as being too anxious, but how 
about a line or two, Bill. 

News concerning SEIDENFADEN was revolutionary- if you believe BOB VOGLEWEDE. But even if you're not as trusting as all that, you can credit the news agencies as being cor­rect when they reported SIDENFAD­DEN to be in Mexico City. But don't be alarmed, it's just a vacation . . . and how! 
The Shell Petroleum Co., Lawrence­\ille. 111., and happiness seem to equal PAUL BROKHAGE if things have been represented aright to us. LEO REISSE reported above to be attend­ing Northwestern is listed by tivo of our best sen-ice men as being con­nected with the doings of the Dallas Brass and Copper Co. For the sake of compromise we'll presume he's doing both. Now i.sn't that a flash­back to the S. A. C. tactics? 
HUGH HOLTHOUSE, one time of Brownson and Walsh Halls, is the leading Ford dealer in Decatur, (Indiana) and vicinity. . . PAUL CLEVELAND MCELROY' has re­turned from his trip through Europe and is back in Norwalk, Conn. We hope to have details for an early issue. . DAA^ LEHMAN is now a near-celebrity in New York. 
A number of the gang that we had firmly "fixed" last month have altered their positions within the month so here's the word regarding them: BOB SCHULZE has given up pharmacy and is associated w-ith a Finance com­pany in Chicago. TOM JORDEN is now connected w^ith Earnst and Eamst, accountants, in the city of Wheeling, W. Va. Tom was offered a good job in Chicago, but^-w^ell, he 
prefers a red- head for luck . . . FRANK CROWE is teaching econom­ics and mathematics at the Sigourney High School on Sigourney, Iowa. In addition he has given the town a basketball team that's the talk of the parish. Fran's wife was formerly Miss Opal Smith w-hose cooking enjoyed some renown on the third floor of Sorin Hall last year. Our shooting star is still at it,—he writes that he killed 2S rabbits in one day . . . BOB VOGLEWEDE left the Northern Indiana Public Service Cor­poration at Hammond during the month to take a position with Haskins and Sells. His accountancy work has taken him to Madison, La-Crosse and Indianapolis so far, but the best part of the job for Bob is that .Chicago is his headquarters Y'ep, he had us mail a letter to her for him so we know! . . J. WALTER GREER, without whom no Sorin reminiscence would be complete, modestly admits that he is booked for the grandest and best new year of all. Reports from New York in­
dicate that Walt's present progress make that a conservative statement. Nice going! 
The ALUMNUS sleuth has been working. Result: news that the North Carolina University student who shot himself as the result of a bridge game was playing with our ARNOLD L. WILLIAMS who is pur­suing a master's degree in lit at the southern institution. Yep, Arnold was the suicide's partner,—how did you guess it? Arnold's address at the University Club, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, is well known by all the debs and sub-debs because Wil­liams is on the high tide of the social sea. . . What with the hobnobbing with the Wilbur Daniel Steele's and all of that! 
Smiling, red-headed PAUL CLEVE­LAND MCELROY of Juggler fame has signed himself "Cheerio, Mac" from about every country in the Cook's tour list of Europe since get­ting out of school last June. One of his letters from Cambridge was a thing of beauty and a joy forevei'. . . we nominate him to the post of best good-will ambassador. Rumor has it that Paul's smiling personality is in­sinuating itself into the life of the stony-hearted people along the Atlan­tic seaboard. 




Peru Foundry Company 
Peru, Indiana 
Maniifacturers of 
Tumbling Mill Stars for Gray Iron Emery Wheel Dressers 
Foundries 

Sand Blast Nozzles for Malleable Iron 
Annealing Pots Foundries. 

Miscellaneous White Iron Castings 



A. F. (ADFRIES.'16 
Vice-Pres. & Gen. Mgr. 



