The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
FEBRUARY, 1953 


^^' Notre Dame Al umnus 
John H. Neeson, Jr., '35, Philodijlphia, Pa., was elected president of the Alumni Association at the Board of Director's recent meeting. Left to right: Wil'iam C. Schmift, '10, Port­land, Ore., third vice-president; Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, Director of the Notre Dame Foundation; Harvey G. Foster, '39, El Paso, Tex., Honorary President; Neeson; Rev. 
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, president of the University; Judge Luther M. Swygert, '27, Hammond, Ind., second vice-president; and, Joseph S. Morrissey, '28, Cincinnati, O., first vice-president. iNew members elected for a three year term are: Rt. Rev. Msgr. Joseph B. Toomey, '26, Syracuse, N. Y.; Daniel Culhane, '23, Washington, D. C ; Dr. Leo O'Donnell, '17, Pittsburgh, Pa.; and John F. Saunders, '31, Boston, Mass. 


Mr e Dame Foundation Reports $^,000,000 in 1 
Two million dollars in gifts from alumni and friends and in grants from government and industry are re])ortcd by the University of Notre Dame for the year 1952. in an announcement made by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh. C.S.C, Director of the University of Notre Dame Foundation. 
Seven thousand alumni, a 40^r participation figure which is high in nationa l comparisons, contributed .$963,992.63. This figure includes a large capital gift of $650,000 from Mr. I. A. O'Shaughncssy, LL.D.. '47. St. Paul, Minn., to complete his gift of the magnificent Liberal and Fine ."^rts Building bearing his name, which will be dedicated in May, 1953. 
Non-alumn i friends, including parents of present students, number­ing 1.351 donors in all. contributed $351,883.52. 
Government and industry grants and research funds totalled $580,301. The College of Science leads in this field, followed by the Colleges of Engi­neering. .Xrts and Letters, and Com­merce. 
Gifts of art and equipment, be­C]uests. and a year-end grant from the Ford Foundation brought the actual year's aid to the L'nivcrsity to the $2,000,000 figure. 
Father Cavanaugh. in expressing the University's appreciation to the donors, stressed the fact that Notre Dame, with a vcr\- low capital endowment of only $7,460,645. is sharing acutely the problems of all private colleges and universities. Notre Dame, however. 
continues to educate its 5,000 students at a figure appro.ximately 25% below the annual cost of operating the Uni­versity. 
The absence of the 1951 revenues from football television, as a result cf the N C.A..\. Ie^trictlons, was an added handicap that alumni and friends helped to overcome in 1952. 
Like all private colleges and uni­versities, Notre Dame does not wish to increase the cost to students, and has created the present University Foun­dation to secure from alumni and friends the supplementar.-financial aid which all private schools must have if they are to remain the vital and in­dependent system of higher education which current thinking in business and industry-, as well as in education, says must e.xist in the American way of life. 
February, 1953 
Private Papers of Mr. Kenkel Presented to Archives at ND 

The private papers of the late Fred­erick Philip Kenkel, who was awarded Notre Dame's Laetare Medal in 1930, have been presented to the University, according to an announcement by the Rev. Thomas T. McA%'oy, C.S.C., Di­rector of the Archives. Father McAvoy received the papers from the daughter of the distinguished Journalist and sociologist, Miss Eleanor Kenkel of St. Louis. 
Kenkel, who died early this year at the age of 89, was the founder in 1908 of the Central Bureau of the Catholic Verein of America, a union of societies devoted to Catholic Action and the promotion of the Christian social order. Active as director of the Cen­tral Bureau in St. Louis until his death, Kenkel was the founding editor of "The Social Justice Review," pioneer journal of Catholic sociolog)'. He was also instrumental in the founding of the National Catholic Rural Life Con­ference in 1924. 
Bom in Chicago in 1863, Kenkel was a convert to Catholicism and re­ceived many ecclesiastical honors. In 1912 he was honored by Pope Pius X as a Knight of Saint Gregor)'. Later he was named a member of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre. From 1895 to 1905 he ser\'ed as editor of "The New Worid" and "Wochenblatt," a weekly German language paper in Chicago. From 1905 to 1920 he was managing editor of "Die Amerika," a German Catliolic daily in St. Louis. 
The personal papers of two other Laetare Medal winners have been en­trusted to the Notre Dame archives. They are the papers of Henry F. Brownson (1892) and Edward F. Hur­ley, Sr. (1926). 
Don't forget the BIG Reunion at 
Notre Dame on June 12, 13, 14, 
1953, fo r the following classes: 
'08—45-Year Reunion 
'13—40-year Reunion 
'18--35-Year Reunion 
'23--30-Year Reunion 
'28--25-Year Reunion 
'33--20-Year Reunion 
'38--15-Year Reunion 
'43--10-Year Reunion 
'48-- 5-Year Reunion 

Graduating Seniors Guests of Alumni Assoc. 
Graduating seniors who completed their undergraduate studies at mid­year were guests of the Alumni Asso­ciation at a communion breakfast in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall. James 
E. Armstrong, '25, alumni secretary, was toastmaster and Jerome J. Crow­ley, '31, president of the O'Brien Corp., South Bend, Ind., gave the principal address. The mayor of South Bend, John Scott, '38, extended greetings to the graduates in behalf of the dty. Kerwin Fulton, Huntington, W. Va., president of the Senior class, e.xpressed 
the group's appreciation to the Alunmi Association. Other guests at the break­fast included: Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, '37, executive vice-president of the Uni­versity; Rev. James E. Norton, vice-president in charge of student affairs at the University; James E. McCar­thy, Dean of the College of Com­merce; LauTcnce Baldinger, Dean of the College of Science; Karl E. Schoenherr, Dean of the College of Engineering; Joseph O'Meara, Jr., Dean of the College of Law; and John Cackley,*'37, Notre Dame Foun­dation staff. 

Arbitration of Industrial Disputes on Labor-Management Meeting Agenda 
The procedures and techniques for peaceful arbitration of industrial dis­putes will be analyzed by representa­tives of labor, law and industry during a one-day conference on "Arbitration in Labor-Management Relations" at Notre Dame on February 27th. The conference will be presented by Notre Dame's Department of Economics and the College of Law in cooperation wth the American Arbitration Association. 
In announcing the conference Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C, of the De­partment of Economics and chairman of tlie planning committee, noted the increasing reliance being placed on arbitration clauses in trade agreements by both management and labor, as a supplement to the bargaining process. 
A major feature of the Notre Dame conference will be a practical demon­stration of the use of the arbitration process. Arbitrators, with no previous knowledge of the proceedings, -wiW hear representatives of management and labor present an actual dispute in concise form and will render their decision. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Radioactive Cobalt for Atomic Researeli at ND 
New horizons in radiation chem­istry research came into view at the University of Notre Dame recently with the arrival of a supply of radio­active cobalt from the Atomic Energ)' Commission's National Laboratory at Oak Ridge, Tennessee. The cobalt will supply Notre Dame scientists with a constant radiation source of 1,000,­000 electron-volt gamma rays. 
Encased in a half-ton turret 21­
inches in diameter, the small brass vial 
of the lethal radioactive material is 
shielded on all sides by a minimum of 
ten inches of lead. Special handling 
permits were required for transporting 
the material to the Notre Dame cam­
pus where it was unloaded under the 
supervision of researc h scientists 
equipped with survey meters to check 
the intensity of .radiation. 
"This cobalt source, along with our 
2,000,000 volt generator, serves to 
maintain the radiation project at Notre 
Dame as one of the best radiation 
chemistr)' laboratories in the world," 
noted Dr. Milton Burton, project di­
rector, who has long been engaged in -radiation chemistry research. 
' "The cobalt; equalling in volume 
approximately the contents of a half-
pint bottle, will serve as a constant 
radiation source for the study of the 
radiation chemistry of water, aqueous 
solutions and other materials of in­
dustrial and biological interest," ac­
cording to Dr. Harold A. Dewhurst, 
research associate in the Notre Dame 
project. 
At pre-war prices, $6,000,000 worth 
of radium would have been required 
to produce the radiation provided by 
the vial of the cobalt isotope received 
at Notre Dame. The strength of the 
radiation source is measured by the 
"curie"—a scale equivalent to a gram 
of radium. Thus, the Notre Dame 
shipment of 328 curies of the cobalt 
isotope is equal in strength to 328 
srrams of radium. 
Vol. 31, No. 1 Feb., 1953 
James E. Armstrongj *25, Editor John N. Cacklcy, Jr., '37, Assodate Editor 

This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class matter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Postoince, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
Due to the developments in the peacetime applications of atomic energy, such radiation sources as the cobalt isotope can now be made avail­able to researchers at reasonable cost by the Atomic Energy Commission. 
In order to produce such material with a high rate of radioactivity a nu­clear reactor or "atomic pile" is em­ployed. The inert element, such as cobalt, is sealed in the reactor and ex­posed to a controlled nuclear chain reaction for a period of many months before it is removed and distributed for medical and research purposes. ~ 
The Notre Dame scientists also point out that such a radiation source as the cobalt isotope has the advant­age of being able to provide a constant source of energy. Unlike a mechanical generator, it is not subject to shut­downs for upkeep and repair and it can be used almost continuously by a group of scientists working in relays. 
Special Communism Studies Offered For Fall Semester 
The University of Notre Dame will offer a special sequence of graduate studies on Soviet Communism and Eastern Europe in the Fall Semester of 1953, according to an announce­ment bv the Reverend Paul E. Beich­ner, C.S.C, Dean of the GJt^Tuate School. 
This new program, -which wiSfJead to the master's degree and doctorate, has been established as a concentra­tion within the University's depart­ment of political science. Courses, seminars and research will be organ­ized under the program to increase the knowledge and understanding of So­viet Communism. Special attention will be devoted to its doctrine and ideology, its methods of propaganda and expansion and their impact on the United States, Communism's attitude toward religion and its poh'cies in the Soviet satellite states. 
Classes and seminars will be con­ducted by four Notre Dame scholars including Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Dr. Stephen Kertesz, Dr. Ferdinand Her-mens, and Dr. Michael Pap. Gurian is Head of the Coinmittee on Inter­national Relations at Notre Dame and editor of the University's "Review of Politics." An internationally recog­nized authority on Communism, Gur­ian is the author of Bolshevism: an Introduction to Soviet Communism. 
Professor Kertesz, former Hungarian minister in Rome, is an authority on the Soviet satellite states. Professor Hermens is a special student of dic­tatorships and Dr. Pap has specialized in the study of non-Russian nation­alities in the Soviet Union. 
The Notre Dame-Southern California shillelagh trophy, now in possession of the Irish, is viewed by: (I to r), Willis C. Hunter, Athletic Director, USC; Jesse Hill, Head Football Coach, USC; Robert K. Kelley, '34, president of the ND Los Angeles Club; and, John Wallace, '27, member of the -first Notre Dame team to play Southern California. 
February, 1953 


Dif ^aparo Publishes New Historical Novel 
Dr. Jose Caparo, who served on the Notre Dame faculty for 33 years and retired as head of the department of electrical engineering in 1946, has published an historical novel about one of the most colorful epochs in his native country of Peru. Desire for Gold and Conquest fulfills Dr. Cap­aro's lifetime dream and is a result of a hobby spanning more than a quarter of a century. 
A native of Cii7cc, Peru, last capi­tal of the Inca empire. Dr. Caparo has devoted much of his life to detailed research on the last days of Inca glorj' and the career of Francisco Pizarro, conqueror of Peru. The new novel incorporates much hitherto unknou-n material gathered by Dr. Caparo through the years. 
Outstanding Sculpture Award Presented to Father Lauck 
The Reverend Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., instructor in sculpture at the University of Notre Dame, has been named winner of the George D. AVide­ner Memorial Gold Medal by the' Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts. 
The Widener prize, one of the most coveted distinctions for a sculptor in the United States, is awarded for the most meritorious work of sculpture by an American in the exhibition. Father Lauck's prize-winning work. "Monk at Prayer," is a grey limestone figure, 18-inches high, on a dark wood base. Judges for the award were AVilliam Zorach, chairman, Lu Duble, and Henr)' Kreis. 
Father Lauck, a native of India­napolis, Indiana, has been honored 
ALUMNUS Magazine Vol. 31. No. 1. 
February, 1953 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
many times for his achievements in the fine arts. He was the first priest to be elected to membership in the Audubon Artists, a national society of leading contemporar)' artists. Father Lauck 
FATHER LAUCK 
received his bachelor's degree at Notre Dame in 1942. He has also studied at Columbia University, the Corcoran School of .\rt, the John Herron Art School, and the Art Students' League. He entered the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1936 and was ordained to the priesthood in 1946. 



European Workers to Study at Notre Dame 
Forty skilled European workers have recently arrived in South Bend to be­gin a one year program of work, study and training designed to teach them American technical know-how, to in­troduce them to labor-management relations and to give them an insight 
ATPEND YOUR CLUB'S UNI­VERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT EVENT, APRIL. 13th (UNLESS OTHERWISE DESIGNATED BY THE ALUMNI CLUB IN YOUR CITY) 
into American life. The unique pro­ject in international relations is spon­sored jointly by the University of Notre Dame, which will assume responsi­bility for the trainees during their year's stay, and the Mutual Security Agency with the cooperation of South Bend labor and management oflScials. 
The Reverend Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice president in charge of academic affairs at the University, is chairman of a joint management­labor-school committee which will oversee the project. Father Moore announced the appointment of Maur­ice P. Cohen, a Notre Dame alumnus, as project supervisor. 
The trainees are from France, Switzerland, Belgium, Norway, Italy, and AVestern Germany. They are taking a scries of accelerated courses conducted by Notre Dame faculty members in English language and orientation, American civinzatiun, laboi organization, and industrial manage­ment. With this orientation as a frame of reference, the trainees will be in a position to learn more and contribute more when they begin full-time jobs at regular pay in South Bend area plants and factories. 
"The European trainees will not displace American workers," project super\'isor Cohen emphasized. "Their skills are in great demand here," he said. Cohen pointed out that the trainees will not be assigned to any work involving national security. 
Entered as Second Class matter Oct. I, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of .Aug. 24, 1912. 

;.-.i3 3 ...ane : L>av;ranc3, h 0 .V ci -J , fJo trs Dams , Ind 
Return postage guaranteed 



