The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
/r^ 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
.N^ 

*
 Key Meeting 


*
 Nieuwiand Exercises 


*
 Football Banquet 

*
 J. Edgar Hoover 


*
 Basketball 

*
 Fencing 

*
 Track 

*
 Campus News 

*
 Qub News 

*
 Class News 



ook is not Xo bt from the LibrarT 
BADIN HALL (Formerly St. Joseph's Hall 
February. 1937 No. 5 

CENTRALITY 
in fhe heart oF Chicago's business and social activities. A step from Chicago's world Famous Michigan Boulevard; adjacent to Lincoln Park; a short block from Lake Michigan and almost equally close to the heart of the so-called Loop. 
•
 450 guest rooms, each outside, spacious, beautifully equipped with bafh Qnd shower combination, servi­dor and circulating ice water. 

•
 Three colorful restaurants including a popular priced coffee shop, ten pri­vate dining rooms and ballrooms in­cluding our new Notre Dame Room. 

•
 Notre Dome alumni, student body and faculty con be definitely certain that they will receive the ultimate in facilities, courtesy and service at rates surprisingly moderate. 

•
 Mok e the Knickerbocker your headquarters when in Chicago, 


AUan G. Hurit, Manager 
193 5 Secretary: F. C. Hochreiter. 1014 N. EcJdy St. South Bend. Indiana. Your case worker, JMr. HocKreiter, dropped his Christmas investigations long enough to say the following: Of course, we have a dedication for the New Year. The notification of it came too late for the last volume and we were just able to squeeze it in with the "societj" editor." Any­way, we are extending fond congratu­lations and many felicitations to Frank Deschamps on his marriage to Miss Dorothy Leanor Craig, of Palm Beach, Florida. Prank was married on Wednesday, November 18, in Palm Beach, but will return to the home town of Alpena, Michigan. 
Our "news-man" of the moment is the mighty S.A.C. man—"King" La-Londe. His letter was wiitten on Thanksgiving Day and consequently the enclosed was too late for the De­cember chatter. 
Tom gave us a little dope on more of the gang down for the Northwest-em game. We pass on to you those names now just so the mentioned will not feel hurt at having been neg­lected in the last roll call. 
They include: Bob Donahue, Bus Breen, Jim Hamilton, the Corregan "tAvins," Carl Esser, John Burke, Art O'Neil and Phil Kirley. 
Coming back from town one day— and late for class—^from a Field Work project we ran into "bosom buddy Artie." Korzeneskj never was an ux-chin but now he is moi-e rotund than evex\ The boy is wearing "fore­eyes" too. Incidentally, he did not volunteer this, but we got it from a letterhead: the man of many oflices is now President of the Polish Students and Alumni Association of America with headquartex-s in the Webster Hotel. 

We forgot to tell you in the last that Bill Measer js taking graduate work at Canisius College in Buffalo. Bill is in the education department and that sounds like teaching to us. 
Roomie Proctor is anticipating the debating season by filling his desk with copious notes, books and speeches. Tom never feels happy un­less he is prepai-ing a talk. We'll be hearing him over the air for Bill Coyne's silver-tongued boj's. 
And here is to another apology. This time it goes to Luke Francis Kelly (Luke to youse guys). We entirely skipped mentioning him as being around the "Bend in the River" this yeai". As our editor volunteered a shoi-t while back, Luke is case supervisor at the Vincentian Service Bureau in town. The Bureau is a news agency opened in the social work field, sectarian in ox-ganization, non-sectarian in services. 
It has been our pleasure to do some field work with Luke as our chief. Luke is the epitome of dig­nity in his office but he was complete­ly dismantled of his official i-obes on the night before we left for the East. Luke and your scribe went Chiistmas shopping for toys with three other wox-kex-s. Really fellas — you'd be amazed at the scientific manner in which this Kelly fellow selects toys. 
Gene Witchger was seen on the campus one Sunday morning. Gene's younger brother is a Freshman this year, and the "old man at the game" drops in occasionally to visit the younger prodigy. 
This is about all that we have for you this trip. As we left Notre Dame, the office informed us that the January number was running smaller this time. If those plans are carried out we will be in proportion. 
Here is to many lettex-s before the 18th of January so that February may again hit the stxide. 

For 1937 we wish jobs for those unemployed, better ones for those now slaving, and sheepskins for the seekers after education. 
* 

1936 Secretary: Thomas J. Murphy, 15 Mill St, Newport R. I. Wayne Millner, end for the Boston Redskins, was a big factor in success of that team in the season just past. He was an outstanding per­former when Redskins met the Green Bay Packers in the pro-league cham­pionship battle, even though his team lost. Jim Nolen is receiving wide praise as the designer of a distinctive new theater in Philadelphia, the Renel. The Philadelphia Exhibitor, a movie trade paper says of his work: "A graduate of Notre Dame University, designer Nolen can well be congratulated on the Renel from all angles. Not only is the house outstanding in its beauty, but it has combined beauty with com­fort as well as utility." 
TOM TURNQUIST IS DEAD 
Tom Tuimquist is dead. 

The vetei-an Pullman porter who held a unique role in the annals of Notre Dame football, and who was personally acquainted with most of the Noti-e Dame varsity football play­ers of the past 11 seasons, died at St. Luke's hospital, Chicago, on Decem­ber 15, after a two-weeks' illness which developed into pneumonia. 
He had made eveiry trip with the' Notre Dame football team since he iirst accomnanied the squad to Los Angeles, for the Southern California game of 1926, with the e-xception of the most recent one to that game. Shortly before time for the Notre Dame special to pull out of Chicago on November 30, Tom was stricken and had to enter the hospital. It was the only football trip with the Irish he had ever missed. 
The Pontiac Motor Division of the General Motors Sabs Corpo­ration and its Dealers extend a cordial invitation to all Alumni, friends and well-wishers of the University of Notre Dame to hear 



NOTRE DAME NIGHT 
on a new series of coast-to-coast radio broadcasts 
known as . . . 
PONTIAC'S 


yA'RSIT/SHOW"
JOHN HEIO, JR., MASTER OF CEREMONIES 
BROADCAST DIRECT FROM THE CAMPUS 
FRIDAY, MARCH 5th, 10:30 P.M. (E.S.T.) NBC RED NETWORK 
With the approval of Rev. John F. O'Hora, C. S. C , and the to the music, songs and atmosphere of your student days. cooperation of oil interested Untversityauthorities, Pontiocwill In the course of this sparkling and present on Friday, March 5th, the seventh of a originalserieSftolentfrom nearlyoll the series of radio broadcosts that radio 
other famous Universities will be heard. The radio poge of your local news­experts cati one of the outstanding paper will keep you informed as to the 
1* 

programs on the air. The broodcast 

^1B^ 

college scheduled each Friday night. 
will be mode direct from the campus Pontiac is happy to sponsor the "Varsity Show" at South Bend and will be transmitted for two reasons: First, because it gives us an opportunity to over the entire NBC Red Network at be of some service to the university graduates of America 10:30 p. m.. Eastern Standard Time. 
whose occeptonce of Pontiac Sixes and Eights has been You will hear the great Notre Dome Band, the Glee Club, 
such on important foctor in Pontiac's success; and second, ond thecreom of student vocal ond instrumental tolentm a pro* 
because we believe that the rodio audience of America gram which, for pace, variety and brilliance of production, will will be agreeably surprised at the talent available on the besecond tononenow being broadcast, tfyou tunetn, we are campuses of America. certain you will not only be highly entertained by the quality 
PONTIAC MOTOR DIVISION, PONTIAC, MICHIGAN 
of the program itself, but that you will also thrill once more General Motori Sales Corporation 
6 t STATIONS • From 10:30 to 11:00 p.m. f.^.T.—WWNC • WFBR • WNAC • WBEN • WCSC • WSOC • WtW • WTAM • WIS • WCOL - WWJ WOOD - WFBC • WnC • WJAX • WIOD - WEAF • WTAR • KYW • WCAE * WCSH - WJAR • WfTF • WRVA - WGY - WFIA-WSUN • WRC - WTAG. From 9:30 to 10:00 p,m, C.S.T.—KGNC - WSB • KFYR • WMAO • WFAA-WBAP - WEBC • WDAY • WGl • KTHS • KPRC - WIRE • WJDX WDAF • KARK • WAVE • WIBA • WMC • WTMJ • KSTP - WSMB • WKY • WOW • WOAI • KTBS • KFBX • KSD • KVOO. From 8:30 to 9:00 
p.m. M.S.T.—KGHL • KGIR • KOA • KTAR • KDYU from 7:30 to 8:00 p.m. P.S.T.—KMJ • KFI • KGW . KFBK . KPO - KOMO • KHQ • KWG. 


AMERICAS FINEST JUOW-imiCED CAR 
«^i 

Stl¥Elt STREAK 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, 75 The magmine is published from October to July inclusive by the Alumni Association Member of die Amerieaa of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription priwj is $2.00 
Editor Alumai CoonciL 
a year: the price of sinrfe copies is 2o cents. The annual alumni dues of ?5.0O include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 
WiLUAM R. DOOLEY, "26 Member of N«aC>dM>lie 
1923. at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1879. All Managing EJilor correspondence should be addrcsse<l to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame. Ind. Alioam Fedenlkin 
Vol. 15 FEBRUARY, 1937 No. 5 
Campus Conducts Key Meeting on Jan. 25 
The Notre Dame campus formed a proper setting for the key meeting- of the nation-wide Local Alumni Club observance on Monday night, Jan. 25. of the launching of the active pro­gram of the Association to stem sub­versive tides. 
Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, president of the University, presided at a joint meeting of students and alumni in the University gymnasium. 
The keynote speaker of the meet­ing was Arthur J. Hughes, '11, presi­dent of the Alumni Association. Pres­ident Hughes repeated to the audi­ence the major part of the program outlined in the ALUMNUS in Decem­ber by which the Association hopes to contribute its strength to the fight against the undermining of Chris­tianity and the American govern­ment. 
In his introduction. Father O'Hara also stressed the essential union of Christian and American ideals and that an attack on the one institution is an attack on the other. 
Daniel O'Grady, Ph.D., professor of philosophy, speaking in place of Monsignor Thomas Shannon, D.D., Chicago journalist-priest, defined the distinctions between various subver­sive doctrines such as socialism, com­munism, anarchism, and their related movements. In his Mrriting, and speaking, Dr. O'Grady is a popular and familiar member of the lay fac­ulty and known to many alumni in spite of his comparatively short ca­reer at Notre Dame (1926—). 
Of particular interest to the audi­ence, which consisted of students, alumni of the St. Joseph Valley, and guests from civic and patriotic or­ganizations of the area, was the ap­pearance of two student speakers on the program. 
Sebastian Bonet, post - graduate student from Barcelona, Spain, gave a most interesting account of the outbreak of civil war there and of the conditions existing in Spain that he observed last summer. 
Father O'Hara, President Hughes, Dr. O'Grady and Students Address Gathering in University Gymnasium. 
James K. Nerney, Attleboro, Mass., a Junior in Arts and Letters, deliv­ered an excellent address on the stu­dent's approach to the problem of subversive doctrines. Mr. Nerney is president of the Chesterton Club, 
SEBASTUN BONET 
Has [nfonnation First-Hand. 

controversial student organization fostered by Arnold Lunn, late of the Notre Dame faculty and himself in­ternationally famed as a controver­sialist. 
The University band played at the opening and closing of the meeting. 
The entire program sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Jos­eph Valley, was excellent in itself and was significant of the outstand­ing contribution that can be made by Notre Dame men, whether older or more recent graduates, in spreading the essential truths upon which Christianity and our country are founded. 
Unquestionably flood conditions, afl'ecting directly such active alumni centers as Cincinnati, Pittsburgh, Louisville, Evansville, and other cities in the Ohio and Mississippi valleys, altered plans there. Similar­ly the right-of-way given the emerg­ency which, over the week-end, as­sumed national scope, detracted some­what from the less tangible tide which the Association program in­tends to check before it can reach flood proportions. 
There is, however, something of an object lesson in the floods for those who can still hold to the course of our original program, or who will return to it. Much of the suffering of the persons victimized is being alleviated by charity. And much of the disorder of the disaster is being avoided or eliminated by the forces of law, civil, state and national. This relief of suffering of persons, and the restoration of order from chaos, we point to proudly as the highlights of our civilization. 
What then of a flood which by its nature not only robs people of their homes, separates families, destroys lives and property, but in addition destroys those agencies which we are accustomed to rely upon for the sole aids that the conditions permit. Char­ity, whose bulwark is religion, and law, whose bulwark is an ordered 
DR. DANIEL 0'GR.*DY 
Defined the Distinctions. 

society such as ours, vanish in the destructive advance of doctrines which deny individual liberties and supernatural obligations. 
If only the zeal with which we re­spond to a crisis could be enlisted in part for the steps necessary to avoid these crises. 
Father O'Hara repeated in his talk that the Alumni Association progrram is not unique, nor isolated, nor rigid. It is part of a growing 
(Continued on Page 136) 

Quan. Description V\ t Prkc.
Gifts 43 Display cabinets, each .-.——~— 39.70 
1 2*6" X 4'2" table 18.00 20 34" X 45" single pedestal dcslcs. each 26.25 17 Utility tables, each , 17.00 
The Urtirersky achwwledges wUb deep gratifude 
17 36" X 2514" 3C 78" combination wardrobes, each™ 21.00 Microscope storage cabinets, each 34.00 
the following gifts: 
3(oUon-picture table 105.00 Storage cases, each _ 280.00 Storage case 489.30 } . From the estate of the late WiLLMM P. BREEN, 77, Library shelves, each 131.20 
Fort WajTie, Indiana: Food bin and shelves _ 183.60 Library shelves, each .. 149.50 

To found the Martin E. Regan Chair of Public 
34 X 60 desk . 35.50 Speaking $50,000 Typewriter desk „. 44.25 T o found the William P . and Odelia Breen Chair 
4* X 14* X 42" zoology tables, each . 112.00 Display cabinets, each .„ .15.00 
of Civil Law 72.000 
34" X 72" table 31.25 34" X 50" desk . 24.00 
2.
 AnonjTnous, for specific needs 2386 12" X 12" X 36" lockers, each 3.00 Tables, each 18.11 

From the same donor, real estate appraised at 2.500 Tables, each __™_™ 10.68 Table 18.00 Straight back chairs, each 4.00 Teachers* desks, each . 13.00 5 Microscope tables with sink, each . 256.90 

3.
 From G. A. FARABAUGH. '04. "for needy students" 100 

4.
 For the Dante Statue: 



10 Microscope tables with drain cups, each 217.67 Anonymous, "29 Swivel chairs u'ith arms, each 10.2.-! 
10 
5 

Pathology desks, 16ft. long, each —... 766.14 Immunology desks, 14 ft. long, each 630.61 
Anonymous, '16 

5. From MR. HERMAN FEIGENMEIMER. Chicago, for Embryology desk, 12 ft. long 622.99 student relief 25 
Pathology desks, 12 ft. long, each .. 310.01 Wall-type hood, eich 243.63 Autopsy tables. 4* X 8' with sink, each ... 317.37 
6. From the STUDEBAKER CORPORATION, one Slude­
1 Sink 81.64 baker Dictator engine, for the Department of 1 3' X 6* tank on Monel base . 492.09 Aeronautical Engineering. 
1 Battery of sinks 476.35 1 S;nk 372.02 1 3Iedia table with sink 156.36 1 14' table , 122.08 
3 

2* X 8' tables with sinks on end. each -189.12 
2 

Aquariums, each • —... 231.78 
cHeeds 4 Dissecting table, each 563.68 
1 

Tank 339.80 
1 Magazine rack ~~~, —— 159.2S 

Scholarships are needed for graduate work in Mathematics. 173 Tablet arm chairs, each 3.95 Professors Haas and Menger, formerly of the University of 1 Card index for reading room 63.39 
2 Arm chairs for Dean's office, each , 7.30 
Vienna, and now of the University of Notre Dame, are among 
380 Stools, each 1.70 the foremost mathematicians of the world. Finandal aid is 28 28 X 48 coapstonc sinks. 94.37 
necessary if they are to have graduate students. A full current 1 Sink 376.77 
Microscopes to equip the Department, each . 100.00 
scholarship for such work amounts to $750. The University Microtome for Histology Laboratory . 300.00 
wll be pleased to have partial scholarships of $250 and $500. Warm stage for microscopic examination _ 200.00 A prompt response to this appeal will enable us to announce Elgin bench lathe with milling attachment — 1.500.00 
Tools to equip shop for instrument making — 300.00 
scholarships this spring, in time to assist students next Fall. 
Equipment for the Biology Library 3.200.00 Film Library for teaching purposes . 750.00 Equipment for Bio-mechanics laboratory . 1.000.00 
The new Biology Building is nearing completion, and should Micrurgical apparatus for single bacterial cell 
be ready for occupancy before March I. In the belief that investigation 1.750.00 some of our alumni will be interested in helping to equip the Models and casts 875.00 
Oil immersion lens for microscopes . 600.00 
laboratories and classrooms of this new building, we append the Mechanical stages : 1.000.00 
the list of equipment submitted by the faculty. 
Qiuzn. Dcserlption Unit Price, 
32 3' X 6* tables, Masonite top. each 26.25 5 3* 3c 6' tables, 2" maple top. each 35.00 2 24" X 60" tables with Masonite top, each . 18.00 1 30" X 86" table with Masonite top 40.00 
^^^ ^. ^
'/u^^. <rj, c. 

1 24" s 48" table with Masonite top 18.00 1 2*6" X 8' table with Masonite top 45.00 1 2*6" X 8* table with Masonite top — 19.00 

Poniiac to Sponsor Notre Dame Radio Show on March 5 
Arrangements have been made for to-coast program will be broadcast to report to the producers when they Notre Dame's participation, on Fri­direct from the University campus. arrive. day, March a, in the series of coast-Students and University organiza­
Friday, Jan. 22, marked the begin­

to-coast radio shows being broadcast tions will provide the talent for the ning of the new "Varsity Show" ser­over the NBC red network and spon­"Varsity Show." 
ies which are to come each week direct 
sored by Pontiac under the name of 

Two weeks before the broadcast from the campus of one of the great 
"Varsity Show." producers and directors from the colleges or universities in the coun­Eev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., who Henry Souvaine, Inc., organization, try under Pontiac Motors sponsor­is in charge of radio at Notre Dame, well-known New York radio produc­ship. and Joseph Casasanta, head of the ers, will arrive at Notre Dame to John Held, Jr., famous artist, Department of Music, met with F. A. take charge of tryouts and rehears­and cartoonist, will conduct every Berend, Pontiac advertising manager, als so that a finished radio produc­broadcast in person as master of 
tion -will be provided. 

to plan the program. ceremonies. Held is- well known for 
Participation of Notre Dame in In the meantime, a committee of the international fame which he won 
the radio series has the approval of students and faculty which was ap­with his drawings, cartoons and writ­Rev, John O'Hara, C.S.C, president pointed will scour the campus for all ings built around college and univer­of the University. One entire coast-available talent which will be ready sity people. 
Noted Assemblage Lauds Father Nieuwiand 
Notre Dame Conducts Memorial Exercises for Noted Chemist-Botanist on January 10; Prominent Scien­tists Address Gathering Following Pontifical Mass. 
A brilliant gathering of scientists, educators and industrialists assem­bled on the University of Notre Dame campus Sunday, Jan. 10, to pay tribute to the memory of Rev. Julius Arthur Nieuwiand, C. S. C, priest-scientist. 
Beginning with a solemn pontifical high Mass at 9 o'clock in the morn­ing in Sacred Heart church, at which the Most Rev. Joseph Schrembs, D.D., bishop of Cleveland, Ohio, was cele­brant, the program of exercises was continued in Washington hall in the afternoon at which time papers deal­ing with Father Nieuwiand and his contributions to science were read by six prominent scientists and Nieuw­iand contemporaries. 
With the University choir of Mor­eau seminary singing at the pontifi­cal Mass, the sanctuary was filled with members of the Congregation of Holy Cross and visiting clergy. Bish­op Schrembs was assisted by the Very Rev. Edward V. Stanford, O.S.A., M.S., LL.D., president of Vil­lanova college, Villanova, Pa. 
Father Wenninger Preaches 

The deacons of honor included Rev. 
J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Ph.D., di­rector of studies, and Rev. Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C, Ph.D., head of the de­partment of classics. Other members of the Congregation of Holy Cross assisted Bishop Schrembs at the Mass. 
Rev. Thomas Ir\'ing, C.S.C, Ph.D., assistant superior general, was deac­on and Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C, head of the department of physics, was sub-deacon. The master of cere­monies was Rev. Francis J. Wen­ninger, C.S.C, Ph.D., dean of the col­lege of science, who also preached the sermon, "Science and Religion." 
The visitors were entertained in the faculty room of the University Dining Hall at noon, and at 1:30 o'clock the memorial program was resumed in Washington hall. The stage had been beautifully dressed for the occasion. A large portrait of Father Nieuwiand held a prominent place at one side of the stage. 
Those participating in this pro­gram were Dr. Marcus Ward Lyon, Jr., of South Bend, former assistant curator of the United States Nation­al Museum, Washington; William Stansfield Calcott, director of the Jackson Laboratories, the E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Co., Wilming­ton, Delaware; Dr. Arthur Haas, professor of physics, the University of Notre Dame and recently profes­sor of physics, the University of Vi­
On the platform at the Niemvland 

enna; Brother Marie Victorin, F.S.C, Sc.D., professor of botany, the Uni­versity of Montreal; Dr. George Dav­id Birkhoff, dean of Harvard College and Perkins professor of mathe­matics. Harvard University and Dr. Hugh Stott Taylor, David B. Jones professor of chemistry, Princeton un­iversity. 
Dr. Marcus Ward Lyon, Jr., for­mer assistant curator of the U. S. National museum, praised the work of Father Nieuwiand as a botanist. He said in part: 
"Botanists are probably born, not made, but they are strongly influ­enced by their teachers. No one seems to know when the young Nieuwiand first became interested in plants. The boyhood collecting hobbies he men­tioned to me were birds, eggs and postage stamps. His preceptor in botany at the University of Notre Dame was Father A. M. Kirsch, 
C.S.C. After being graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1899, Nieuwiand went to the Catholic University of America, Washington, studying chemistry as his major un­der Griffin and botany under Dr. Ed­ward Lee Greene, as a minor. After receiving a Ph.D., from the Catholic university in 1904, Nieuwiand came back to Notre Dame as professor of botany, a position he held until 1918, when he became professor of organic chemistry. 
"While Father Nieuwiand was still teaching botany as a young profes­sor, he gave some instruction in chemistry. Later, when he took over the chair of organic chemistry, he continued his botanical work during the summer and gave extremely pop­
ular courses in field botany until 
about the last three years of his life, 
"He was an ardent collector of 
plants in northern Indiana, south­
western Michigan, the pine barrens 
of New Jersey, Maryland, Alabama 
and around the vicinity of Portland, 
Ore. -\t least four of his local trips 
were made in a canoe with camping 
equipment, down the St. Joseph river 
and along the shore of Lake Michi­
gan from New Buffalo to Muskegon. 
Guided by Conservation 

"As a collector he was guided by ideas of conservation and never took all specimens of a rare plant, but just enough for identification and record. Physical obstacles meant nothing to him when a good collect­ing ground was to be explored. The number of plants collected by him on these trips is legion and they form the basis of the herbarium of the University of Notre Dame, which, ne.xt to that of Charles C. IJeam of Bluffton, Ind., is the largest in the state of local material. 
"As a pupil of Dr. Edward Lee Greene he adhered to the principle of absolute priority of scientific names used in the entire Latin liter­ature prior to the establishment of the Linnaean system as possible sources of valid names. 
"Following the footsteps of his preceptor, he built up a splendid col­lection of old botanical works on flor­istics and systematics and botanical history. 
"The most important work that Father Nieuwiand accomplished and his greatest monument is an offshoot of his botanical studies. There was 
Exercises in Washington Hall. Left 
to right. Dr. Arthur Haas, Dr. Hugh Stott Taylor, Dr. Marcus Ward Lyon, Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., W. S. Calcott, Bro. Marie Victorin, F.S.C., Dr. George D. Birkhoff. 
no convenient outlet for the publica­tion of papers on natural history in the middlewest, and in 1909 he brought out the Midland Naturalist later to become the American Mid­land Naturalist. This journal ran for a quarter of a century under Father Nieuwland's editorship. 
"Father Nieuwland's bookplate, be­sides his name and the outline of a simple flower, bears the motto in the Latin of the original Vulgate: 'Con­sider the lilies of the Field' (Matt, 
vi: 28). He was never happier nor more at home than when he was in a marsh or meadow considering all its botanical elements." 
"Father Nieuwland the Chemist" was the topic of William Stansfield, Calcott, director of the Jackson Lab­oratories, of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours and company. He said in part: 
"In discussing Father Nieuwland as a chemist, no effort will be made to attempt a critical evaluation of his work. This discussion will be on Father Nieuwland, the chemist, and not on the chemical works of Father Nieuwland. 
"It is not generally known that the strictly chemical career of Father Nieuwland was a very brief one. Al­though he took his doctor's degree in chemistry in 1908, he did not devote himself actively to this subject until 1918. In the following eight years, 'Chemical Abstracts' lists only 11 papers under his name. In the follow­ing 10-year period, however, there are 67 entries in 'Chemical Abstracts' and in one year there are 21 entries as against 11 for the entire period of 1918-1926. His most active chem­ical work lies in the decade 1926-'36. 
Acetylene His Field 

"Another very striking point in Father Nieuwland's career as a chemist is the extreme accuracy with which his doctoral thesis foreshad­owed his entire future career. Very early in his career he chose the re­actions of acetylene as his field, and the title selected for his thesis in 1908 might almost ser\'e for a title for the collected works of his entire career—'Reactions of Acetylene.' 
"As for the now famous dichlor­divinyl-arsine, better known as Lew­isite, the description of its mode of preparation makes it clear that this compound was actually prepared by Father Nieuwland and it has the dis­tinction of being the only compound which he encountered which he aban­doned because he considered it un­duly hazardous. 
"In looking over Father Nieuw­land's contributions to chemical work, we have a picture of a man who at the verj' beginning of his career set for himself a certain goal and fol­lowed it rigorously to the end. Dur­ing the course of that work he stud­ied compounds which were perfectly innocuous and again, those which rate among the most toxic ever dis­covered—compounds too violently ex­plosive to be touched by human hands. 
"On the foundation of his investi­gation the first successful synthetic rubber industry has been established and other industries may yet arise. In the purely scientific field no man has done nearly as much as Father Nieuwland toward the solution of the problem which he set himself 28 years ago—our knowledge of the re­actions of acetylene." 
Expounds New Solar Theory 

Dr. Arthur Haas, professor of physics at Notre Dame, expounded a new solar theory in his paper, "The Energy Balance of State Systems." Dr. Haas said: 
"The universe is not expanding, shooting farther and farther into space all the time, but the radiation contained in the universe is continu­ally giving off energy and may thus serve to perpetuate output of heat by astronomical bodies." 
The fact has been generally known to scientists for about ten years that the spectral lines observed in the case of very remote nebulae appear to be shifted toward the red end of the spectrum, from their normal position. One theory advanced to explain this phenomenon of "red shift" that has been quite strongly advocated, is that the entire astronomical system is ex­panding. 
"My interpretation," said Doctor Haas, "is to assume that the smallest particles composing light rays are continually loosing energy, and cal­culations actually show that the av­erage loss in radiant energy caused in this manner just compensates the average energy production by matter. 
"There is a serious objection against the common assumption of the expansion of the astronomical world, namely, that the energy re­quired for the increase in the dis­tances between the nebulae would ex­ceed by several hundred times the total actual energy production." 
"Calculations on the energy bal­ance of star systems, on the other hand, lead to the conclusion that the extension of the system of nebulae cannot be greater than, at the high­est, about 12 times the greatest dis­tance to which modem telescopes can penetrate, as yet." 
"Vanishing Floras of Northeastern America," was the topic of Brother Marie Victorin, F.S.C., Sc.D., of the University of Montreal. He said in part: 
"We greatly rejoice in our country (Canada) over the achievements of Notre Dame. Your problems are our problems, your successes our success. The accession of the eager Catholic youth of North America to a higher 
level of scientific culture is one of the two great needs of the hour. 
"They must face two methods, t%vo 

attitudes, two kinds of men: the man of cold science and the mystic, Fran­cis Bacon and Francis of Assisi. Our modem souls are parted, are torn by the apparent incompatibility of these two tendencies, these two violent calls for the absolute and the infinite. Modem souls, the masters of tomor­morrow, need enlightened spiritual guides that will not tramp upon what . is best in them; souls of such quality that the spirit of Francis Bacon and the spirit of Francis of Assisi can dwell together in them and bring forth these new men that have to be very different from us, if the world is to be saved through spiritual agen­cies. These new men and women, needless to say, it is the duty of the 
Catholic universities to produce. 
"My thought today rests with that distinguished scientist who was for a very long time, the only picture I could form of Notre Dame—Father Nieuwiand. I never met Father Nieuwiand, but I have been in touch with him through a long and hearty correspondence. 
Too Radical for Acceptance 

"The principles of Nieuwiand upon nomenclature were too radical to meet acceptance at the time, but the terror which he inspired prevented a good deal of laxity, and although he relinquished botany for chemistry, his name will always be remembered by taxonomists, together with the names of Pierre Bubani, Ivar Tides­trom and Edw-ard Lee Greene. 
"We are concerned today with pe­culiar biological processes of geolog­ical facts, operating entirely outside of human activity and leading to the regression or the destruction of geo­logically old floras. Floras are dyna­mic units undergoing constant trans­formations. Their apparent static condition is a delusion, relevant to the brevity of human life and of hu­man experience as a whole. Plant groups, featuring original novelties in life structure have appeared more or less suddenly in the dim past, have shooted, seemingly by mutations, a rich array of forms, but in the end, having exhausted the possibilities of the basic type, they have become fixed and have disappeared from the face of the world, leaving, for us to read, scanty records among the rocks." 
(Brother Victoriti then preceded by means of lantern slides to show many of the plants of northeastern Amer­ica which are rapidly vanishiyig and explained those natural causes which lead to their disappearance.) 
Dr. George D. BirkhofF of Harvard spoke on "A Relativistic Theory of Atomic Structure." In his address Dr. Birkhoff said in part: 
"The principal characteristics of 
(Continued on TaKC 12S) 

Pat O'Brien Toastmaster at Football Banquet 
St. Joe Valley Club Sponsors Annual Event; 1,200 Hear Noted Figures Pay. Tribute to 1936 Team; Father O'Hara Attacks Football Reformers. 
Harry Stuhldreher, Pat 

Pat O'Brien, popular Hollywood, California, cinema star, who traveled 2,000 miles to be a toastmaster, skill­fully wielded his gavel of wit and hu­mor in the University Dining Hall, to guide the 17th annual civic testimon­ial banquet for the Notre Dame foot­ball team to a successful close on Jan. 11. 
Twelve hundred students, alumni and friends of Notre Dame were on hand to pay tribute to the 1936 Irish gridiron squad, which Elmer Layden, '25, football coach and director of athletics, described as "the closest to the 1924 team of any I've ever seen." The dinner was sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley. 
Mr. O'Brien captured the hearts of the gathering with his first words, just as he had won the admiration of Coach Layden at a dinner in Los An­geles, California, on the eve of the last Notre Dame-Southern California contest. 
He described his dinner as "the swellest bunch of autographs on toast I have ever had." Dozens of fans had filed to his table during the meai to obtain his autograph. "Don't misunderstand me," he continued, "it's all part of the racket, and I love it. Some one asked me once if I didn't get annoyed by so many people asking me for my autograph. I told that person that it wasn't so annoy­ing now, but it was going to be ... . annoying when they stopped asking for it." 
O'Brien and Elmer Layden. 
to Notre Dame as "With all due re­gard for my own alma mater, the greatest school in the world." 
Before inti-oducing his players Coach Layden referred to his team as "eleven -A.ll-.A.mericans." 
Toastmaster O'Brien introduced Coach Layden as "the man who rushed in where angels feared to tread" and "the noblest Roman of them all." 
In one of the highlight speeches of the evening. Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame, at­tacked the "long-nosed" reformer of college football. 
"I don't know what the long-nosed reformer wants of football," said Father O'Hara, "and I don't know what good he does." 
Father O'Hara said that evils may exist in college football, but that the universities themselves are capable of correcting them. He contended that natural rivalries among college s would automatically crumble under evils existing in athletic set-ups. 
"If schools do not like the policies of their natural rivals," he stated, "then it is up to them to find natural rivals in other places. It is all as simple as that." 
Father O'Hara concluded his talk by saying, "Let's save America by saving our Saturday afternoons." 
Father O'Hara jokingly announced at the beginning of his talk that Luke Bamett, a professional heckler who had thrown the guests into an uproar with a staged attack on college foot­ball in general and Notre Dame and Northwestem's Kenneth L. (Tug) Wilson in particular, had furnished him with the text for his speech. 
Harry Stuhldreher, '2.5, Wisconsin football coach who played quarter­back with Layden on the Four Horse­men team of 1924, spoke briefly, say­ing that he was happy to pay tribute to Notre Dame's team. In fun, he stated that one of his big reasons for wanting to come to the banquet was to find out just how many men Layden used against Wisconsin in the game here last Fall. 
Arch Ward, ex. '21, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, jokingly intro­duced himself as head coach at Notre Dame. 
Tug Wilson, Northwestern athletic director gave back the shillala, which Notre Dame and Northwestern foot-
O'Brien played halfback for Mar­
Father Arthur Hope, Father John Cavanaugh and Pat O'Brien.
quette university in 1921, referred ball teams play for each fall. He said he had tried to give it back im­mediately after the game, but that he had been turned away from the locker room door by a student man­ager who remarked to a fellow work­er, "Oh, that's just another one of those guys who has business with Elmer." 
Eev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., 
'16, chairman of the board of athletic 
control of Notre Dame, read a poem 
written by Eev. Thomas E. Burke, 
C.S.C., '07, of Notre Dame, in tribute 
to Louis J. (Red) Salmon, '05, of 
Chicago, famed Notre Dame fullback 
of 30 years ago. Red spoke briefly. 
Toastmaster O'Brien introduced 
South Bend Chief of Police Laurence 
J. Lane, as "pinch-hitting for Mayor George AV. Freyermuth, who was off attending a tropical world series." Last year at the testimonial banquet Mayor Freyermuth called Notre Dame's football team a baseball team. 
Chief of Police Lane responded 
^vith a short tribute to the team, in 
which he said South Bend owed a lot 
to the great university at the gate­
way for the prestige the school 
brought to the city. 
Following the speech Tostmaster 
O'Brien said, "we can forgive the 
mayor for not being here now, even 
if he went to see a lacrosse game." 
Warren Brown, Chicago sports 
columnist concluded the speaking 
program with the statement that 
sports experts "got off on the wrong 
foot last year by starting to work 
behind a mentally unbalanced line." 
Judge AValter Steffen, Carnegie 
Tech football coach, and Noble Kizer, 
'25, director of athletics and football 
coach of Purdue university, were un­
able to attend the banquet. Judge 
Steffen was seriously ill in Chicago, 
while Noble Kizer was receiving 
treatment for sinus trouble in the 
Mayo Brothers clinic. 
Louis F. Buckley, '28, president of the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph Valley, opened the program. Music was furnished by the concert unit of the University band under the leadership of Joseph J. Casasanta, '23. 
Mr. Buckley thanked all those who had, by their earnest and prolonged efforts, contributed to the success of the banquet. He particularly thanked Dillon Patterson, '20, the efiicient gen­eral chairman in charge of the affair, and the committee chairmen: Harold Weber, '22; Jim Armstrong, '25; Floyd Searer, '28; Joe Petritz, '32; ' Doctor McDonald, ex. '21, and Herb Jones, '27. He also expressed special gratefulness of the St. Joe Valley club to Jim Connolly, the maestro of the Dining hall, Joe Casasanta, '23, the maestro of the Band, Art Haley, '26, and all the Notre Dame coaches. 
Seated at the head table, in addi­tion to those who spoke, were Jack Ledden, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune; Jim Costin, sports ed­itor of the South Bend News-Times; 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
HONOR "RED" SALMON 
SouUi Bend Tribune Photo 
Lou "RED" SALMON, '05 
Father Hugh O'Donnell, vice-presi­dent read the folloioing happy lines by Father Tom Burke at the Foot­ball Banquet, 
In our early football history 
Now and then a man of mystery 
\\TTDm the critics couldn't fathom with 
a plummet, has appeared; 
One so versatile and clover 
That opponents hardly ever 
Fir^rcd out a way to stop him as he plunEeil 
and stabbed and veered. 
Such was solden-domod Lou Salmon 
Whom no foe could trick or cammon. 
For he had the drive and power of a heavy-
armored tank: 
As he plowed and ripped and pounded 
His opponents Rrew confounded 
And Have way before his onslaughts falling 
backward rank by rank. 
Like a bombshell from a mortar 
Salmon jrave his foes no quarter. 
And his playins was as brilliant as his nam­
ing Kolden head: 
Yard by yard he wrote a storj' 
Of four years of football dory 
In a coruscatinsr brightness that can still be 
clearly read. 
Since his day the Rame has shifted 
So that those by nature jrifted 
With some speed, thoush frail of stature. 
may achieve a lastinK name: But to reach the top when Lou fought One must be a human dreadnausht. And must bone-crush his opponents in the 
winning; of a Kame. 
Bud Boeringer, '27, assistant to Gus Dorais, '14, at the University of De­troit; C. L. Wanamaker, former Yale hockey coach and Dartmouth star and a Mishawaka industrialist; F. A. Miller, publisher of the South Bend Tribune; J. M. Stephenson, ex. '10, publisher of the South Bend News-Times; Mai Ehvard, '16, assistant coach at Purdue; Harold Vance, chairman of the board of the Stude­baker Corporation; Paul Hoffman, president of the Studebaker Corpora­tion; Byron V. Kanaley, '04, chair­man of the Board of Lay Trustees. 
February, 1937 
Froning and Just Ai d Program 
Donate Services To Nieuwiand Exercises. 
Two faculty members gave out­standing service in the preparations for the Nieuwiand Memorial Exer­cises. One was Henry B. Froning, head of the Department of Chemis­try. The other was Dr. Theodor K. Just, assistant professor of biology. 
Professor Froning, as chairman of 
PROFESSOR FRONING 
Sacrificed Vacation. 
the committee on arrangements, gave unsparingly of his time, sacrificing his entire Christmas vacation for the benefit of the cause. Through him the entire invitation list was prepared. Just prior to the exercises nearly 2,000 letters came into his office. 
Dr. Just not only assisted in the preparation of the mailing list but also made direct contacts with some of the speakers and did a vast amount of editorial work. 
Several other members of the fac­ulty of the College of Science laid aside the dignity generally associated with doctoral degrees and spent hours stuifing envelopes and doing other work of the moment. 
Many fullbacks have departed Who were stronff and loyal-hearted Since the days when Salmon's plun^n^ 
brought the Gold and Blue repute; But they all passed onward cheerins For Lou's daring pioneering And tonight before his prowess they are 
standing in Salute. 
Eichcntaub and Harry Miller Showed the old boys many a thriller, Cemey, too, and Elmer Layden clicked in 
many a clever play: Yet they man-el at Lou's daring And are happy to be sharing In the luster that has come to him for point­
ing out the way. 
So let's drink to Lou. old timer. Not ambitious, not a climber. Whose achievements are emblazoned in the 
llame of gold and blue; Notre Dame is proud to own hira And tonight she would enthrone him In the hearts of all her students, and proclaim 
his praise anew, 
—REV. THOMAS BURKE, C.S.C., 'OT 

February. 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 119 
J. Edgar Hoover Addresses Students 
Recognizes Alumni Association Anti-Communist Drive; Urges Non-Political Law-Enforcement; Decries "Softness" in Treat­ment of Convicts and Lack of Real Punishment for Criminals. 
The noted figure of John Edgar Hoover, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the United States Department of Justice appeared on the Notre Dame cam­pus on Monday afternoon, January 11, for an address to an audience of several thousand, composed of students, faculty members and townspeople. 
So wide was the interest in Mr. Hoover's appear­ance that he spoke in the Gymnasium, rather than in Washington Hall. His address was broadcast by WSBT, the South Bend Tribune station. Newspapers had just been infoi-nied of the finding of the Mattson boy's body in Washington when Mr. Hoover reached South Bend and he was inter\'iewed on the case by local reporters before his speech. He left for Chicago immediately afterwards. 
Taking cognizance of the .\lumni Association's efforts toward combating subversive influence in this country, Mr. Hoover devoted a large portion of his address to a consideration of law-enforcement in the cities of the nation. 
His entire speech follows: 

The young man of today who comes to the threshold of his adult life does so in a world of many perplexities and problems. He is beset by the swift changes which have been brought about through the years of the depres­sion; he is handicapped by the result of these changes; he faces the competition of men who have been jobless for years and who, eager for occupation, seek to under­mine his efforts in building a career. But beyond all this, he labors under the realization that upon many of his kind the stigma rests for one sixth of our crime. 
OLDER PERSONS POINT THE WAY 
When one considers that more than 700,000 youths of 21 or less have engaged in some type of law infraction, he feels that many of our youth are literally being chopped down by the efi'ects of crime, warped, twisted into a law­less population which cannot help but bring about sus­picion of all youth and a fear that the young men and women of today have thrown themselves against our bar­riers of civilization. 
Such, however, is only partly true. For we must admit that had not older persons pointed the way, youth would not have followed an example and one out of every six criminals who falls into the hands of the police would not be under voting age. It is due to the breakdown of fac­tors which should have been safeguarded by our elders that the younger generation has been led to believe that punishment does not necessarily follow crime and that there can be law-breaking without punitive results. 
This also is true in another and growing problem in which Notre Dame University has shown a great interest, that of the subversive activities of misguided young per­sons. It always has been the habit of youth that young eyes should gaze into the distance and there observe chimerical images which they believe to be the cure-all for every ill. The practical side of questions is not looked upon in analytical fashion. It is easy for agitators, spouting magical formulas, to seize the imagination of youth and lead it into false paths, making of young men and women missionaries to impossible gods. 
Notre Dame University has devoted excellent efforts toward the practical eradication of such fantasies and I am sure that its work in the future will be along the same course of common sense. It is only through the application of common sense by youth and for youth in all its problems that we may have a common sense stand­ard of living and of the obser\-ance of the necessities of life in later years. 
NO MAGIC FORMULA FOR LIFE 
Miracle workers have endeavored for centuries to pull some fantastic prescription out of thin air which will make existence a perfect thing. It never has been done" and it never can be done. jVttempts along this line have led only to sorrow, to disappointment, even to bloodshed. There is no magic formula for life. We can only proceed by the hard i-oad of trial and error, and retrial and error again, moving as best we can toward a goal which all of us seek but which cannot be reached by a single leap or a single effort. No wild theorists, by the stroke of a pen, can bring some super-existence into being in a few hours or days or months. Nor should any such theo­rist be looked upon as the friend of a country whose foundations were built by hard labor, by the giving of effort and of self, by common allegiance to high ideals. This does not mean that we should cease to progress, or to try, by fonvard-looking efforts, such as we are doing, to remedy old ills. But we must continue to do this in the American way, in the manner in which we now are pi-oceeding. Underlying all hopes for a better America must be the belief that human rights are paramount; that human endeavor must be protected; that human freedom is a thing of the utmost importance. Our found­ers landed upon the rocky coast of New England with that idea in mind. The true American clings always to the tenet that the future must be a goal of greater com­
mon welfare, of greater protection, and of greater gen­er-al happiness. 
This is the thought which the graduate of this uni­versity carries forth with him into the world. I hope that in so doing he will realize that a tremendous por­tion of this general welfare and happiness depends upon the eradication of crime as a major menace. Since much of the blame for law infraction of today is being placed at the threshold of youth, it seems worthwhile that this challenge could well be accepted by youth; that this 
The Notre Dame Alumnus February, 1937 
gauntlet be taken up by the young men and women of America for the beginning of a battle which I hope will end in the victory for those who desire to see crime eliminated as a major factor of our existence. There is a tremendous necessity for young persons with sufficient courage to tackle the job of cutting away the under­pinnings of crime. 
Criminality does not exist as an entity. Law infraction is not something which stands apart or alone, drawing its life blood and sinews out of mere atmosphere. It must have support. It must have aid and assistance. It must have foundations and it is, in eff'ect, a barnacle-like growth which lives only through the fact that other growths of the same type feed upon our body politic and thus sup­port it. 
Thei-e is no such thing as crime for crime's sake. Crime exists primarily because persons believe they can take the possessions of others with impunity. Crime thrives because inefficiency in numerous forms of law-enforcement has made punitive eff'ort a laughing stock. Crime fattens because the news of the day carries exam­ple after example wherein those of influence, of power, of protection, are able to live beyond the law and sneer at the person who would punish them for their violations. 
This is not the fault of youth, but youth must suffer because of it. No young man of the hundreds of thou­sands who go against the law can benefit by that action. Criminality for the young can lead only to a vile exist­ence; to a life of conniving and of fear. The energy wasted in efforts to defeat the law, if exerted in legiti­mate channels, would bring about a great reward. It, therefore, hecomes the problem of youth to seek the weapons by which this humbuggery can be cut away and a free chance for a straight life be given to all young people. 
Such young men as come from Notre Dame University have a tremendous opportunity before them. They are the alumni of a great school, of life and health and happy tradition, of moral ideals which have stood for years for wholesome accomplishment. 
CLEAR-MINDED LEADERSHIP NEEDED 
They leave with traditional memories upon which they can build and there is a certain amount of zeal and desire for betterment which may be used for the benefit of all of us. No greater opportunity ever existed than that which presents itself today to the young man who desires to engage in civic work or to become a builder in that world which, for a lack of a better term, we must call politics. Within recent years, attention has been centered upon good and bad politicians. There has been an out­cry against the person who looks upon votes as something to be used merely for his own ends, instead of for the betterment of the world in general. People are eager for right-thinking, clear-minded leadership. They believe that they .should have in their representatives a type of idealism, of high-mindedness, of thoughtfulness and a desire for the bettei-ment of humanity. This is the recipe for the young man who volunteers to work in the ranks of clean politics and to build solid ground upon the swamps of distrust. 
For such a young man politics, strangely enough. 
means a field in which there shall be less of purely selfish politics; in which there shall be the dearth of office-seek­ing for personal aggrandizement; in which there shall be a steady lessening of the so-called benefits of politics and of patronage. For it is through this system of patronage which has been built up through the years by men working for their own personal gains instead of for the benefit of the commonwealth that a large part of the break-down of law-enforcement machinery has been brought about. 
IS YOUR POLICE DEPARTMENT FUNQIONING? 
When you enter your own communities with the idealism which college has given you, with the desire to do something for your fellow-man, built upon the tradi­tions bestowed upon you by this university, it might be well to look about you and try to visualize what is wrong with your city, your hamlet, your village, or your metroplis. You may find that one of the great defects lies in the machinery of your law-enforcement. It is pos­sible that the police department of your city is not func­tioning to the satisfaction of a thinking and objectively planning individual. It is more than possible that persons of influence find it extremely easy to defeat justice, that your jail system is badly handled, that your courts are clogged and their calendars filled with cases which long ago should have been disposed of; that your prisons are badly manned and-easily accessible to escape. On the surface this would seem to be a problem to be solved by a mere change of method; unfortunately, it goes much 
Perhaps I may give you an example from the records of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. This Bureau within recent years has been credited with the accom­plishment of certain magical things. The young men of this organization who have eliminated the Dillingers, the "Baby Face" Nelsons, the Harvey Baileys, the "Pretty Boy" Floyds, and the Alvin Karpises have been romanti­cized as super-men. Nothing could be more untrue. Cer­tainly they are a high type of law-enforcement officer— the highest type which it has been possible to procure; they are young men such as yourselves—of education, of training, and of tradition; they are persons who have been selected after a careful investigation as to their morals, their integrity, their alertness, their personality, and their capabilities. They have been trained by every scientific process known to modem theories of apprehen­sion and detection. 
Through the efforts of a far-seeing Attorney General, my superior, the Honorable Homer S. Cummings, they have been given, through appropriations, the benefits of necessary paraphernalia and equipment by which to per­fect themselves in what they are proud to call the pro­fession of law-enforcement. They have been trained in a meticulous, painstaking manner. Every man concen­trates upon an eagerness to catch criminals, upon an equal eagerness to protect the innocent, and upon a determined and never-failing tenacity toward the con­viction and punishment of the guilty. This tradition is inculcated, first, through their desire to become members of this organization and, secondly, through the months of career-making which follow their acceptance as young Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
Therefore,, when they go into the field, they do so not as men who merely have gotten a job and who hope to keep that job by getting along as best they can; they take their places as volunteers in a small army of high­ly enthusiastic individuals consecrated to the ideal of service—to the belief that no man lives in the world of crime who can defeat them, that there is no such thing as injustice provided the faith of honesty and integrity lives constantly in the heart of the man who seeks jus­tice. They work upon a theory that a mere arrest means nothing but that only conviction counts. To that end, they weigh carefully every atom of evidence which comes before them. They view it in a judicial light; they ask themselves whether this evidence points to the innocence of a man or whether it points to a person's guilt. They are self-appointed jurors seeking for the benefit of the doubt as well as for the benefit of suspicion. And the result is that when these young men bring a culprit into court and charge him with the commission of a crime, they have so assembled their evidence; they have so con­vinced themselves; they have so thoroughly done an hon­est job that less than one person out of every twenty-five escapes the testimony which they give from the witness stand. 
FREEDOM FROM POLITICAL INTERFERENCE 
All of this I hope is an achievement but it could not have been accomplished without something over which the Federal Bureau of Investigation has no control. That is freedom from political interference. In other words, had there been the pressure of heavy political hands upon this Bureau, had there been the suggestion backed by the necessity of obedience that the candidates for these offices be selected from political workers, from per­sons to whom politicians owed debts for having garnered votes, there would have been no such body of young men as comprise the personnel of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. This is no assault upon the character of the political worker. It merely means that one cannot winnow and one cannot select when one is forced to take any person who is offered for a job. The politician, him­self, often is faced by many difficulties. He is harassed, he is followed about, his telephone rings constantly, his office is filled with seekers of jobs. He may be thorough­ly honest, as many of them are, but he is forced to get jobs for the men who have worked for him and when those jobs enter the field of law-enforcement, they enter a dangerous area. This branch of our protective facilities should have no place for the man who has been given his position as a matter of political reward. It is unfair to the populace he is supposed to protect and it is unfair to the man himself. Under such conditions, he comes to his job as a person of indebtedness. He owes his position to certain influences or forces. It is human nature that he, to a degree, should obey the desires of those to whom he is indebted. 
If he is free of such handicaps, he can pursue a course such as is pursued by the Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He can cut through the tangles of protection which may surround the Dillinger. He may slash away the briar brambles behind which an Ahin Karpis may have hidden. He can go into the clannish, self-serving areas in which a "Pretty Boy" Floyd may have concealed himself and get his man without fear of reprisal. A political appointee cannot do this. 
Therefore, if when you go to your own home town, you find evidences of undermining inefficiency, of stulti­
 Dame Alumnus 

fying influence, look again and see if the cause does not lie in the foundations upon which law-enforcement in your community is built. It is unfair to charge a Chief of Police with lack of interest in his job, vdth lack of enthusiasm or persistence or courage when that man may not know from one day to the next whether he will con­tinue to hold his position. It is unfair to say that a policeman is a traitor to his task if that policeman fails to arrest a man whose incarceration may mean reprisals that will affect the officer's home, his wife, his children, and his future. It is unfair to charge a district attorney with obeisance to the underworld when that underworld is in control of the forces which put this district attorney into office. And the same may be said for judges, for sheriffs, and for wardens of prisons. 
Therefore, a tremendous task faces those who would bring about better conditions and that task is the build­ing of a new order in law enforcement. The Federal Bureau of Investigation holds no brief for its accom­plishments—I hope that they speak for themselves. It does, however, take pride in the knowledge that it has been able to be the example by which a country can be shown what can be accomplished through proper training, proper selection of personnel, plus the blessing of free­dom from the interference of subversive or stultifying influences. Of course, there is not complete freedom, no one ever could ask for that, for there are certain malign influences which always must be expected to exist. They are the annoying gnat-bites of pernicious, small-minded bureaucrats who believe that in tearing down the edifice which someone else has built, they may erect a temple of their own with what remains. There are the stings of petty indi\'iduals who, hiding behind the cowardly mask of anonymity delight in barbed shafts of cheap gossip and pot-boiling of gutter rumors. These voluntary rumor mongers we must take for granted as one expects to find mosquitoes in swamps. We must realize that there ai-e various types of human beings, some who walk on firm ground and others who live in hog wallows. The latter cannot be eliminated although, I must say, that they are the first to squeal with fear when their gossip, their rumors, and their attempts to destroy morale again . bring the terrifying shadow of the kidnapper across the cradles of America. 
A CONSECRATION TO VIRTUE OF JUSTICE 
What a blessing it would be if all of us could follow some of the tenets which are the exemplary teachings of your noble institution; that justice is the virtue, the heart of good which inclines us to give to everyone his due and that society is built upon trust to be protected by the preservation of justice. 
There can be no higher ideal for the student of Notre Dame or any other university in America than that he should consecrate his life to the virtue of justice. We need that virtue. We need a realignment of ideas toward the belief that another person's rights should be our rights; that equality of purpose should be an equality of just and high-minded accomplishment. Again, I insist that nowhere is this more needed than in the field of law-enforcement for, strangely enough, the force which pim­ishes the criminal is the force which sets the pace for any municipality. 
If you find a city where police are highly efficient. 
122 The Notre 
where the gangster is unable to obtain a foothold, where the lower elements either do not exist or are held in obedience to unfaltering justice, you will likewise find a clean, forward-looking city in all of its endeavors. Where law-enforcement is iax, other aspects of government seem to follow the same course and, therefore, I believe that to strike out at conditions that are wrong, that are un­fair, one should strike at the barnacles which clog law-enforcement. 
If I were a student just leaving college, I should like to set for myself a plan of future action. I should like to think and talk constantly about the necessity for careers in the government of my city. I should like to work to­ward a goal which would make my Chief of Police one of the really important men of my community and not merely someone who commands so many persons in uni­form. I should like to believe it possible that this Chief of Police be second only to the Mayor in the confidence which the populace holds. I should like to believe him a man capable of acting in any emergency and to that end I should like to work through my associates, my business companions, my friends, the organizations and clubs to which I belong, that this office be one of merited i-espect and monetary reward sufficient to attract the highest type of individual in my entire community. 
-A^fter all, the home is a home only so long as it is protected and that condition, sadly enough, does not exist today. The statistics and records which we must face show that every twenty seconds a major crime is being committed somewhere in the United States; that every forty-five minutes someone dies by the hand of another man. They show that many prisons are disorganized; that they often are ill-kept; that they often are hot-beds of agitation, even to the extent that in one of them a counerfeiting plant was discovered which disseminated bogus money over a large territory. They confront us with the knowledge that punishment in many states has all but become a thing of the past, that some prisons may well be classed as country clubs while others are mere stopping-places for persons who have violated our laws. 
NO SUCH THING AS LIFE PRISONER 
We are amazed to learn that there is no such thing as a life prisoner but that the avei-age man who receives a life sentence stays only about ten years behind bars and, even then, may be granted the benefits of the radio, of the daily newspapei-, of what magazines he may desire. He may have the latest movies, baseball, handball, basket­ball, and football, and any other amusement which over-sympathetic and sob-sister wardens or prison boards may contrive in order that he better may enjoy his stay behind bars. Many an honest man during the terrible hardships of the depression, which, fortunately, is lifting its weight from our shoulders, suffered far more in his desire to remain a decent citizen of worth and integrity than those cowards who could not stand adversity and who scuttled into some of our pi'isons that they might take advantage of the amusements, the fine food, the sound of orchestr-as, the lilt of the radio, the latest news morning and evening in hand decorated cells, the doors of which remained open and with name plates to desig­nate their place of abode. 
I do not call this punishment. I do not believe that 
Dame Alumnus Febi ruary, 1937 
such practices create respect for law. I do not believe that the majesty of justice can appear in white and un­trammelled garments so long as such idiotic, disgraceful, sentimental, convict-coddling is allowed to persist in our alleged penal institutions. I believe that it is the duty of every young man,- such as the graduates of this univer­sity, to look into conditions whereby offenders against our laws are allegedly re-made into responsible citizens. It is nnly through the actions of such persons as yourselves, determined to see for yourselves, that conditions such as T have described are eliminated. 
A.gain, I must insist that this is a problem which '••itally concerns all of you. It vitally concerns your fam­ily, your loved ones, your friends, your relatives. Some of them have been or will be the victims of crime. It, therefore, is vital that you know what happens to the oerpetrators of crime. In every city there should be an alert, courageous, determined group of young men who make it a part of their daily life and of their ijrogram of existence to delve into the acti\aties of police depart­ments and to ask in no uncertain terms why inefficient conditions, if they do exist, are not remedied. They should investigate the ability with which many crooks defeat justice. They should insist upon law-enforcement bodies, equal in personnel, in training, and in accomplish­ment to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
ASKS FOR COMPETITION FROM CITIES 
The happiest moment of my life will be when I find the Federal Bureau of Investigation faced with active competition from the cities of the United States in a race to see which of us can give the best law-enforce­ment. That race is possible. There is nothing magical about the fonnula. There is nothing improbable or diffi­cult once public sentiment demands it. There is no more reason why you should not be able in your own city to have a body of men equally efficient, equally alert, and equal in eveiy possible way to that which comprises the Bureau which I am so proud to head. It can come about, however, only through 'the determined insistence of groups of persons who investigate, who bring improper conditions into the light of day, who go to their news­papers and seek the aid of managing editors that ineffi­ciency be placed in the foreground; that improper influ­ence be dragged forth and made to show why it has existed and a determined effort made to bring about punishment for those who have fostered it. All this can and must be done in the interests of good citizenship; so long as conditions exist which allow the infiltration of unholy elements into the life of a municipality just so long can there be no progress by that municipality. 
The foundations upon which any city can thrive must be clean foundations, well cemented by honesty, integ­rity, alertness and efficiency. You, as young men, can bring these things about, for today is the day of the young man. Today is the day which calls for the enthu­siasm of youth. Today is the day which demands that youth arise and defeat the pernicious influences which conspire to make every sixth criminal a person of less than voting age. 
In other words, it is up to you to save yourselves and, in saving yourselves, to save your brothers and sisters. Two great fields exist in which there is heroic work to be done. One of these is parentage. If the parents 
February, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
of America cannot realize for themselves that a lack of kindly guidance, of unswerving vigilance has had much to do with the tremendous rise of crime among the young, then youth must teach parentage this lesson. It would be a shameful yet nevertheless eye-opening ex­perience for a number of our parents if the youth whom they have beti-ayed were to assemble facts and were to display to them the numerous ways in which they have failed to do their duty to their oiTspring. 
The parent who allows any child to run willy-nilly through life obeying every sellish impulse, following the wild ravings of any agitator who orates from a soap box on the corner, is not only doing a foolish thing, but is doing a manifestly unfair and unkind act to the child. It is not generous for a parent to turn its oifspring free from all fetters and allow it to run wild in a world which contains as many jungles of criminality as does ours. It is unfair to that offspring to believe that an immature mind can perceive the hundreds of pitfalls which may lie ahead in the tangles of a multi-sided ex­istence, yet unfortunately, that is what thousands upon thousands of neglectful parents have done in allowing what they so blithely call the freedom of youth; they have hampered, warped and twisted and bound their children into lives which forever must i-emain strangled and stained by the effects of early criminality. 
It would be well if courageous youth, such as your­selves, would go into our juvenile courts and seek the right to sit there and to weigh the cases which come before these judges; to learn the home lives of these chil­dren to see where parentage has failed and then carry this news to other parents like these. I believe this can be done and I hopa that it will be done. I believe that the day will come when the cause behind crime will be as fully culpable as the crime itself. 
NUMEROUS FORCES AID CRIMINAL 
In the investigation into the numerous public enemies whom our Bureau has apprehended. Special Agents found that not one of them could have existed without the aid of numerous other forces. No bank robber can i^ursue his nefarious trade without assistance, without hideouts, without finger men, without doctors to aid him, without a hundred and one other forms of minor criminality which feed upon the main act of outlawry. Few of these persons would ever have existed had it not been for the results of early training or lack of training which gave them the fixed belief that there always would be someone to assist them, always someone to seek freedom for them, always someone to pet and pamper them and take their side of the question when they have violated first a home law, then a neighborhood law, and then a community law. 
The most unfortunate axiom which America possesses is that our crime all too often starts in the cradle and that our greatest aid to criminality is the fatuous father and mother who believe that while there may be prob­lems for other children, their offspring can do no wrong. There is need that youth tell age the truth which youth knows so well. This is the fact that youth must be taught everything it knows; it must be taught to walk; it must be taught to eat; it must be taught to converse and it must be taught to obey or disobey the laws of civilization. These acts do not come about through any magical work­ings of the brain. They arrive through the old law of cause and effect. If a child is unhampered in any of its desires, then indeed it is unfair to say that child is a criminal. Rather, it has been the father and the mother who allowed this child to tread any path it chose who have done the criminal act and yet it is youth which must suffer through the fact that of every hundred persons who fall into the hands of police seventeen are boys and girls. 
The other tremendous field of endeavor is one in which youth can work miracles; it is one where a coali­tion of effort readily can bring about a lessening of the numerous offenses by the young. 
GOOD RESULTS OBTAINED BY MASS EFFORT 
I believe that all of you at Kotre Dame know the good results to be obtained by mass effort. Your revered hero, Knute Rockne, taught you much of that and it would be well to follow his teachings of the football field into a broader and even better game of the outside world—that of mass play and of safety interference against the forces of the underworld. Today, you out­weigh them. Today, you can out-guess them and out­play them if you will only use the proper tactics. For the safety of youth, evei-y worthwhile young man should be a crusader for the protection of his fellows. It should be a matter of constant endeavor to teach the fact that there is no future in crime save that of filth and dis­grace. No one can build an enduring edifice upon a worm-eaten foundation. No one can be safe by placing stones on quicksands. Your duty, therefore, is to teach the facts of crime, to argue the facts of crime, to dis­play the facts of crime. Your obligation is that you are your brother's keeper, you are the person responsible for the rescue of your own kind. You are the one who must carry the message wherever you go that nothing of a decent clean nature was ever committed through an act of filth. 
There is nothing romantic about crime. There is nothing to be gained by it. There is nothing in any of its phases which can be viewed from a standpoint of honor or of decent accomplishment Drive this lesson home. Begin the tremendous movement of thought and of feeling and of sincerity which goes from one fellow to another—that decency is a reward in itself and crime is useless, degi'ading, unclean. He who contemplates a crime does so for personal gain. He who learns that there is no gain in crime perhaps will not look upon it with as much favor. 
And so, I hope that I have made some friends today; friends who will work with me toward a common goal; friends who will seek, in their own homes, in their own surroundings, to build toward a time when we will have the greatest nation of efficient, honest, law-enforcement in the world. I hope that I have made friends who will help me tell others what I have told you today—that we may become a nucleus working always toward wider dissemination of the belief that we live in an America which has been great from its beginnings and which can be made steadily better. I hope that you will be my friends to assist me in what, after all, is a sacred duty— the duty of keeping men and women upon a clear course of endeavor toward greater goals of accomplishment, and through integrity, toward a greater plane of happiness in our homes, in our cities, and in our nation. 
BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 
» » » 
Director of Athletic Publicity 

ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
Ten victories, three defeats. The cold figures summarizing the first half of the 193-37 Notre Dame basketball team don't mean much as Notre Dame basketball teams go. 
But a review of the hardships suf­fered by Coach George Keogan's men, 
JOHN'XY MOIR 
The man with the Iron Mask. 
in spite of which they rallied to be­come one of the most feared teams in the nation, is a tribute to their cour­age and Keogan's resourcefulness. Should these Fighting Irish equal this mark in their remaining 10 games they will have had a remark­able season. Should they fail, which is not likely, you can still put them in your book as one of the fighting-est teams to represent Notre Dame in many a year. 
The graduation of three regulars and tivo reserves from last year was not thought to be particularly dis­astrous last June. Co-Capt. Johnny Ford, forward; and George Ireland and Frank Wade, guards, were the regulars. Johnny Hopkins, forward, and Co-Capt. Marty Peters, center, were the alternates lost. 
But when the goddess of fortune turned her back in December, the al­most utter lack of reserve strength available because of the heavy gradu­ation toll became apparent. 
Paul Nowak had undergone an appendectomy in October and he was very slow coming into shape. Johnny Moir suff'ered a broken jaw in the second game of the year, missed the next contest, and was hampered for more than a month by a cast and helmet he wore while trying to carry on. Capt. Eay Meyer, hampered by a knee injury suffered last season, went through the ordeal of losing his mother Dec. 11; Dec. 12—playing in compliance mth her wishes—^he re­ceived a broken blood vessel in his 
1937 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
Oct. 2—Drake at Notre Dame. Oct. 9—Illinois at Champaign. Oct. 16—Carnegie T. at Pittsburgh. Oct. 23—Navy at Notre Dame. Oct. 30—Minnesota at Minneapolis. Nov. 6—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame. Nov. 13—^Army at New York. Nov. 20—^Northwestern at Evanston. Nov. 27—So. Calif, at Notre Dame. a regular guard berth as a sopho­
foot. Inexperience was a great draw­back to Tommy Wukovits and Tom Jordan, junior guards, while Earl Brown, Jr., who has since taken over more, had suffered from inexperience and lack of practice when he joined the team at the conclusion of the late football season. 
The Irish pushed over Kalamazoo, St. Mary's, and Macomb, 111., Teach­ers. But Northwestern's smooth-working veteran team had no "trouble piling up a 38 to 19 victory, and Illi­nois breezed to a 44 to 29 triumph before the holidays. 
Realizing the low resistance of his squad. Coach George Keogan ordered a week's rest. The boys came back transformed, and they outfought Northwestern in a 24 to 23 thriller New Year's eve. They won by three points from Chicago, then flashed into stride with a decisive victory over Kentucky. Butler was next. The floor work was excellent; the shoot­ing was spotty, however, and the Bulldogs staged a late rally which allowed matters to end, 25 to 24 for the Irish. 
Pitt was next, and Notre Dame took a nine-point lead at the half. But Nowak, who was just hitting his stride, was ailing with a heavy chest and head cold. He faded rapidly, and with him Notre Dame's victory hopes. Pitt won, 34 to 31. Nowak entered the infirmary for a week's stay when the team returned from Pittsburgh. 
The undefeated Syracuse quintet, averaging 43 points to opponents' 24, blew into town on a wave of publicity which would have dismayed all but the stoutest hearted. No Nowak around, Keogan shifted Moir to cen­ter, placed Ed Sadowski at forward, assigned Wukovits to guard Ed Son­derman. And Syracuse suffered its first defeat, 52 to 31. 
The small but scrappy combination Keogan started against the Orange team pleased him to such an extent that he left Moir at center, giving Nowak a chance at forward against the undefeated Eastern Intercolleg­iate conference leaders, Pennsylvania. Nowak was still not up to par, and when Sadowski replaced him, the Irish scored 22 points in the last ten minutes to win, 41 to 36. It was Penn's first defeat in ten starts. Wes­tern Reserve fell, 55 to 20, at Cleve­land on the return trip from Phila­delphia. 
Following are the complete scores to date: 
Notre Dame. 41; Kalamazoo, 27. Notre Dame, 39; St. Mars's, 27. Notre Daihe, 37; Macomb Teachers, 22, Notre Dame, 10: Northwestern, 38. Notre Dame, 29; niinois, 44. Notre Dame, 24; Northwestern, 23. Notre Dame. 30; Chicago, 27. Notre Dame, 41; Kentucky. 28. Notre Dame, 25; Butler, 24. Notre Dame, 31; Pittsburch. 34. Notre Dame, 52; Syracuse, 31. Notre Dame, 41; Pennsylvania, 36. Notre Dame, 55; Western Reser\'e, 20. 
The rest of the schedule is much more rigorous than the part already behind the Irish. Purdue and Illinois must be played in the same week, with three days of one another, just after exams, a time when the Irish are chronically somewhat deflated and befogged. Purdue is the defend­ing co-champion in the Big Ten. Pur-
CAPT. RAY MEYER 
Conquers Adversity. 
due and Illinois, the latter the pres­ent leader in the conference, have lost but one game apiece in the confer­ence. 
The Irish face N. Y. U.'s rapidly improving Violets at New York and play Canisius at Buffalo on the re­turn trip. 
Pitt plays at Notre Dame in the third successive "revenge" contest on the home floor, Purdue and Illinois having perpetrated previous crimes which must be punished, we hope. Marquette, batting in the clean-up spot of this "murderers' row" of home games, will be followed by But­ler at Inidanapolis, then Marquette 

February, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
at Milwaukee. Minnesota's fourth place Big Ten aggregation will ap­pear in the home finale, and the Irish will finish away from home against one of the best Detroit teams in that school's history. 
Following is the rest of the card: 
Feb. 3—Purdue at Notre Dame. Feb. G—Illinois at Notre Dome. Feb. 13—N.Y.U. at Madison Square Garden. Feb. 15—Canisius at Bultalo Feb. 20—Plttsbursh at Notre Dame. Feb. 23—Marquette at Notre Dame. Feb. 27—Butler at Indianapolis. 
March G—Marquette at Milwaukee. March 8—Minnesota at Notre Dame. March 12—Detroit at Detroit. 
Just in the line of reporting prog­ress, Moir has scored 54 points in his last three starts at center, bringing his season's total to 141 for the 12 games in which he has seen action. This means he has averaged nearly 12 points a game, broken jaw and all. His t^vo-season total is 401 points. Ed Krause's three season record is 547 points, and Moir has a season and a half in which to attempt to lower it. 
• 
TRACK It is customary to open any ac­count of an athletic team's prospects (omitting the professionals and pris­on teams) with a listing and magni­fying of men lost by graduation, along with a listing of and belittle­ment of returning prospects. Then the schedule is called the most rig­orous in history. This story won't be any different. Coach John Nicholson sighed heav­ily when he saw half of the points 
BucKY JORDAN 
Track Captain. 
scored by his 1936 team walk up for diplomas last June. Last year's team was the best in Notre Dame history and the best dual meet team East of the Kockies. 
Capt. George Meagher, Don Elser, Bob Bernard, Joe McGrath, John Mi­chuta, Paul Rubly, Leo McParlane, and Jack Frawley were some of the best men in their respective events ever to wear the Blue and Gold. 
The sophomore replacements do not begin to fill in the vacancies. The returning lettermen plus the sopho­mores may develop into stars late in the indoor season, but they are not likely to leave a wake of shattered records that will compare with that 
Award Monograms 
To 32 
Joe Zwers Chosen Football Captain. 
Coach Elmer Layden presented monogram sweaters to 32 members of the 1936 football squad at the Football Banquet on Jan. 11. At the 
JOE Z^\-ERS 
Football Captain-elect. 
same time he announced the election of Joe Zwers, of Grand Rapids, Michigan, first string end on the 1936 team, as captain of the 1937 squad. 
The following were awarded mon­ograms: Zwers, O'Neill, Skoglund, Sweeney and Murphy, ends; Stein­kemper, Kopczak, Cronin, Beinor, Alec Shellogg and Kell, tackles; Lau­tar. Smith, Kuharich, Martin, Mar­shall, McMahon and Zenner, guards; Mundee and McCarty, centers; Pu­plis, Ruetz and O'Reilly, quarter­backs; Wilke, McCarthy, Wojcihov­ski, McCormick, Gleascn, and Koval­cik, halfbacks; Danbom, Miller and Simonich, fullbacks. 
left last year. The flu bug has af­flicted many of them, and Steve Szu­machowski, sophomore two miler, is not expected to train into condition until late in the season, having been hampered by a heel injury. 
Following are the men on whom Nicholson's chief hopes ride, and, therefore, the men for you to watch: 
Sprinters: Capt. Charles (Buck) Jordan and Bill Clifford, lettermen. 
Middle distance events: Jim Par­sons, Pete Sheehan, John Cavanagh, and John Francis, all lettermen. 
Mile: John McKenna, letterman; Bill Donnelly and Greg Rice, sopho­mores. 
Two mile: Arch Gott, letterman; Stev e Szumachowski, and Gene Gormley, sophomores. 
Hurdles: Bill Mahoney, letterman; and Don Morgan, sophomore. Capt. 
Jordan may double in the low 
hurdles. Mahoney will probably run 
the quarter outdoors and will run 
with the relay team, being a better 
quarter miler than a hurdler, but 
more sorely needed in the hurdles 
than in the quarter. 
High jump: Appears at this stage 
to be a blank, as it was last year. 
Pole vault: Dan Gibbs, Bill Mc­
Carthy, and Harold Langton, all let­
termen. 
Broad jump: Gibbs and Jordan, 
lettermen. 
Shot Put: John Levicki, letterman; 
Bud Faymonville, sophomore. 
Mile relay: Cavanagh, Mahoney, 
Sheehan, and Parsons, lettermen. 
The schedule, which is as stiff as 
any Notre Dame has ever faced, fol­
lows : 
INDOOR 
Feb. 5—Indiana at Notre Dame. 
Feb. 13—Marquette at Milwaukee. 
Feb. 27—Drake at Notre Dame. 
Mar. B—Illinois at Champaiiqi. 
Mar. 12-13—Central Intercollegiate Conference 
at Notre Dame. 
Mar. 20—Butler relays at Indianapolis. 
OUTDOOR 
April 23-24—Drake or Penn relays. 
May 1—PittsburKh at Notre Dame. 
May 8—Navy at Notre Dame. 
May 15—Ohio State at Columbus. 
May 22—MichiBan State at East Lansinff. 
May 29—Indiana State meet at Notre Dame. 
June 4—Central Intercollegiate Conference at 
Milwaukee. 
• 
FENCING Coach Pedro de Landero's fencers, also hard hit by the graduation of Co-Captains Carlos de Landero and Kevin Kehoe, and Dick Snooks, have dropped their first two matches with Northwestern and Wayne, each by a 9 to 8 margin. 
But both were among the best competition oflFered in the Middle West, and the alumni can sit back and wait before taking drastic steps to replace Coach de Landero. 
It is doubtful whether anyone else would want his job on the same basis. Coach de Landero works for nothing anyhow. His 1935 and 1936 teams, as you know, were unde­feated. His large squad has been im­proving steadily, and there is every hope that the others will fall in be^ hind the lettermen—Capt. Telmo de Landero, Jack McAuliffe, and Bob Seco— and begin pushing over some of the remaining competition. 
Prof, de Landero has performed what is usually called a coaching miracle by introducing the sport to a group of boys who never saw a foil, sabre, or epee before in their, lives, and producing championship teams at Notre Dame. He's entitled to drop a couple of one-pointers while developing some more tyros into the intricacies of this exacting sport. 
The rest of the schedule follows: 
Jan. 30—Purdue at Notre Dame. Feb. G—^Washincton U. at Notre Dame. Feb. 12—Ohio State at Columbus. Feb. 13—Cincinnati at Cincinnati. Feb. 23—Purdue at Lafayette. Feb. 27—Chicaeo at Notre Dame. Mar. 8—^Wisconsin at Notre Dame. 

LAUD FATHER NIEUWLAND 
(Continued from Page 116) 

this theory are the following: A relativistic space-time was employed as the background for a certain 'per­fect fluid' which was the carrier of positive or negative electricity. In this fluid the disturbance velocity was that of light. The fluid was fur­ther endowed with a certain 'atomic potential* which gave rise to a new term in the energy tensor of the fluid. In addition the positively and negatively charged portions of the fluid could freely interpenetrate. 
"It was then shown that with suit­able simple choices of the disposable quantities the same spectral fre­quencies would be obtained for the hydrogen atom as arise from the Schrodinger wave equation when use is made of the Planck-Einstein law. However, in the further development of the theory considerable difficulties arose and it has been only recently that I have studied the mechanism of radiation. Significantly it has turned out that the arbitrary introduction of the Planck-Einstein law can be dis­pensed with.*' 
Dr. Hugh Stott Taylor, professor of chemistry at Princeton university, in his address called attention to the growing importance of the study of large molecules in solving the most urgent problems before the scientific world in the chemistry of both ani­mate and inanimate nature. 
He said in part: "Science today is facing boldly the diflicult problems that the investiga­tion of such complexities of structure bring in their train. The wonderful achievements in the organic chemis­try of biologically important com­pounds vnth the syntheses of such substances as the vitamins and hor­mones cannot obscure the fact that the problems that still lie ahead, in­volving the molecules of an entirely higher order of complexity, the pro­teins, the viruses, enzymes, cellulose, require for their solution the best cooperative efforts of the biologist, the physicist, the organic and in­organic chemist; nor is it beyond the boimds of possibility that the math­ematician with his specialized knowl­edge in the field of topology will also be called in to assist." 
From many points of the nation, from many schools and many leading industries came prominent persons on January 10 to pay tribute to the humble Father Nieuwland. The as­semblage was described as one of the most brilliant and inclusive of its kind in the history of American edu­cation. 
The following accepted invitations to be present: 
COLLEGE PRESIDENTS 

Very Bev. Edward V. Stanford. O.S.A., Villa Nova col/efre, ViJIa 'Nova. Pa.: Dr. Ed­gar O'Dell Lovett, Rice Institute. Houston. Texas; Dr. E. C. EJlJott. Purdue university; Rev. Brother Leopold, F.S.C.. St. Mary's col­lece, Win-ana, Minn.: Dr. G. Harlowc Evans. Taylor universit>'. Upland. Ind.: Dr. "W. F. McConn. Marion coHeRe, Marion, Ind.; Sister 
M. Madt'Ieva. St. Mary*s colleRC. Holy Cross. Ind.. and Rev, Dr. -\nselm Keefe, O.Praem. St. Norbeit colIeBe. De Pero. Wisconsin. 
AXD JfAXV OTHERS 

Hon. Daniel J, McGrath. consul of the Irish Free State. ChicaKo: Arthur J, Hughes, na­tional president of the Notre Dame Alumni association, Chicaso; IMerill G. Meifrs. pub­lisher. ChicaRo Evening Atncrican; Emanuel Levi, publisher. Chicago Herald and Exam­iner: Rev. M. L. Moriarty, diocesan director of charities, Oe\*eIand: James E. Deer>', chief counsel for the city of Inidanapolis, and May­or George W. Treyermuth, South Bend. 
W03IEN EIlUCATOrS 

Sister M. Alberic. Ph.D., professor of chem­istry, Uosar>' college. River Forest. III.; Sister Thomas Aquinas. O.S-D.. River Forest, III.: Sister M. Amcdia, Notre Dame coIleRe. S. Euclid. O.: Sister Claire. O.S.U.. Mary Manse collcffc, Toledo: Sister M. Corona, dean of CtolleKe of Mt. St, Joseph-on-thc-Ohio. Mt. St. Joseph. O.: Sister M, Edith, S-N.N,, Notre Dame CoUcac S. Euclid. O.: Sister M. Ellen O'Hanlon. O.S.D.. Rosary collejrc. River For­est: Sister M. Hedwipe. professorof chemtstrj*, St. Bernard's school, Detroit: Sister M. Leo­cadia. R,S.M., Slount Mercy Academy. Grand Rapids, Mich.; Sister M. Leona, Collepre of Mt. St. Josoph-on-the-Ohio; Sister M. MarceJ­linc. Catholic Junior college. Grand Rapids: Sister 5L Therese. professor of science. Mun­dclein eolieKc, Chicaso; Sister M. St. Victor. Mundelein COIICKC ; Sister M. Vincent de Paul. I.H.M., Jlarj'Krove coHejre. Detroit; Sister M. Joseph Thorose. B.V.M.. Clarke colieRe. Du­buque, Iowa; Sister 31. Edmundus, B.V.M., Clarice colloRe. Dubuque. Iowa: Sister M. Doloretta. Villa Maria collese, Eric. Pa.: Sister M. Consolata. Central Catholic HiRh school, Hammond. Ind., and Sister M. Floren­tine. C.S,C.. St. Mar>-*s collesre. Holy Cross. Ind, 
INHL'STRIAUSTS, INDUSTRIAL CHEMISTS 

Dr. J, S. Banash, consulting enBineer. Union Carbide and Chemical corporation, Chi­cago : Sidney M. Cadwell. director United States Rubber Products company, Detroit: Dr. Ed^ar B. Carter, biolosical director. Abbott Laboratories. Chicaso; William E. Cotter, Union Carbide and Chemicals corporation. New York: Dr. Gustave Esloff, director Uni­versal on Products companj', ChicaKo; Arthur Guillanudeu, Si.vift and company. Chicaco: Edward J. Hayden. Linde Air Products, Chi­cago : Dr. C, D. Lowri*. jr.. actinsr director of research. Universal Oil Products company, ChicajTo: J. H. Minzey, chief chemist. Corn Products Refininff company, Art^, HL; Dr. 
R. C. Newton, counselor, American Chemical Society, Chieaso: R, M, Reed, chemical di­vision, Pnactor and Gamble company, Ivorj'­dale, O.: Dr. E. H. Volweiler, vice-president, Abbott Laboratories, Chicaso. and Harry F. Lewis, dean. Institute of paper Chemistry-. Appleton. W'is. 
A. S. Carter, assistant director Jackson Laboratory, E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company. Wijminj^on. Del.; Elmer K. Bolton, vice president. E. I. du Pont de Nemours and company, "Wilmington, Del.; A. Cressy Mor­rison, Union Carbide and Chemicals corpora­tion. New York: Dr. H. A. Shoule. director of organic chemistry, Eli Lilly and company, Indianapolis: Dr. Frank J. Sowa. Bendix Products corporation. South Bend and Dr. John H. Waldo, research chemist, Eli Lilly and company. Indianapolis. 
EDUCATORS PRESENT 

Dr. William Lloyd Evans, chairman, de­partment of chemisto*, Ohio State university; Dr. U. V. Evans, professor of chemistry. Northwestern university: Rev. Dr. Matthias 
E. Hass. S.M., professor of chemical engi­neering. Da>-ton university; Dr. Charles D. Hurd, professor of organic chemistry. North­western university; Dr. Ralph C. Huston dean, division of applied science. Michigan State college; Dr. M. S. Kharasch, professor of chemisto-. University of Chicago; Dr. Paul 
N. Leech, director, American I^Iedical Asso­ciation Laboratories, Chicago; Professor Kar­ri- McCormick, director, department of chem­ical engineering, Armour Institute of Tech­nology, Chicago; Dr. C. S. Mar\-el, professor of organic chemistry. University of Illinois and Dr. H, E. Phipps, head, department of chemistry Eastern Illinois State Teachers college. 
Dr. R. L. Shriner, professor of chemistry. University of Illinois: Dr. Paul C. Standley, Field Museum of Natural Historj-, Chicago: Dr. L. F. Supple, professor of chemical en­gineering. Lewis institute, Chicago; Charles 
A. Tibbals. assistant dean. Armour Institute of Technology': John A. Vaichulis. instructor cf pharmacy. University of Chicago; Dr. Henry P. Ward, professor of chemisto*. Cath­olic university of America; Rev. Brother Eu­gene A. Paulin. S.M.. Ph.D., Maohwst Normal college. Kirkwood. Mo.; Rev. Brother Heno- Alford. P.S.C. Christian Brothers' college. St. Louis. Mo.: Rev. Edmund Cuneo. O.S.B.. St. Vincent's college. Latrobe. Pa.; Dr. Edward Barton, past president. American Chemical society. University of Iowa and Dr. 
F. C. Wbitmore, president-elect, American Chemical sDciety, Pennsylvania State college. 
Dr. Roger ,\dams. head, department of chemisto'. University of Illinois; Dr. Amos Butler, lecturer, department of science. Uni­versity of Indiana; O. B. Christie, head, de­partment of science. Ball State Teachers col­lege; Dean Paul Bender. Goshen college; Dr. Edmund S. Conklin, professor of psychology. University of Indiana: Dr. R. C. Friesner, department of botany. Butler university. In­dianapolis and Dr. Olive Gunder, department of iKJtany. Butler university. 
Dr. Albert H. Scheldt, professor, school of medicine. University of Indiana; Dean Carl 
W. Holl, Manchesteer college. North Manches­ter, Ind.: Dr. M. C. Lehman. Goshen college. Goshen, Ind.; Fred A. Loew. department of biology, Huntington college, Huntington, Ind.; Don M. Sfartin. department of chemisto'. Manchester college: Glen R. Miller. Goshen college; Dr. Alfred H. Meyer, head, depart­ment of gcologj-, Valparaiso university; Charles S. Morris, head, department of phys­ics, Manchester college: Dr. Ina Stanley, de­partment of botany, Butler university; Dr. Leslie I. Steinbach. dean of men. Central Nor­mal college; Dr. Stephen Visher, department of geography. University of Indiana: Samuel W, Witmer, Goshen college and Dr. T. G. Yuncker, department of botany. DoPauw- uni­versity. 
FROSI PURDUE UNIVERSITY 

Dr. Howard E. Enders, dean of the school of science; Dr. H. B. Hass. dirccetor of chem­istry research: Dr. D. V. Pearce, department of chemisto'; Dr. R. E. Nelson, head of the department of chemistry; Dr. Louis A. Test, department of chemisto*; Dr. C. B. Jordan, school of pharmacy: Dr. Frederick J. Allen, department of chemistry: Dr. H. B. Kraybill, department of chemisto'; Dr. Otis C. Trimble, department of education and Dr. G. Stanley Meikle. Purdue Research Foundation. 
BY JOHN J. LECHNER. '37 
CAMPUS NOTES 
STUDENTS GLOAT 
Herein the saga of the infallible professor. And joy of joys to a native Indianian, as we happen to be, his defalcation was partially caused by the much maligned Indiana weather.. We have been having very nice weather, you know. Nothing gaudy but still when sriow and cold are con­spicuous by their absence in Indiana in January, that's news. But to get on with the saga of the infallible professor— 
Pointed out by awed students as a "prof, who never cut a class" this paragon could point with pride to a record of perfect attendance since 1923. But fallibility, as it comes to all men, came to the paragonic pro­fessor. One day this month there was a feeling of spring in the air. At 11 o'clock the prof, was to have met one of his classes. The bell rang: No professor. Fifteen minutes ticked by: No professor. Astounded stu­dents took their leave. The next day came the announcement from the professorial rostrum: "Gentlemen! If it should ever happen in the fu­ture that I'm not here to meet one of my classes send one of your number up to my ofRce to see whether or not I've fallen asleep!" 
J. EDGAR HOOVER We can do very little finger point­ing, however. This being our fifth year at the University there is little excuse for us, but the fact remains that we were guilty of the old fresh­man trick of becoming confused at the length of a vacation with the result that we returned to the cam­pus one day early after the Christ­mas holiday. And if there is any way in which one can feel sillier than by walking across an empty campus with class books under one's arms with a vacation still officially in progress please communicate. RoUie O'Shea, South Bend Arts and Letters junior, attempted to console us by relating how he thumbed a ride to town one evening after dusk only to 
find when he was half-way there that he was riding in a taxi. 
RoUie and ourselves, however, were both alert Jan. 11. Packed to the rafters was the gymnasium to hear a lecture by the ace of G-Men, J. Edgar Hoover. Never have we seen a man whose appearance was more compatible with his record. A quiet, masklike face, piercing eyes, black, cropped hair, and short, compact body. That's J. Edgar Hoover when you try and put him on paper. But more elusive is a description of the impression he gives those who hear and see him. Overheard after the lecture was this comment which characterizes Mr. J. Ed. Hoover very nicely: 
"Potential dynamite, that guy! He seemed so charged with energy that I wouldn't have been surprised to have seen him take off and fly around the gym!" 
• 

O'BRIEN GETS RECEPTION 
Completing his address, Mr. Hoov­er slipped quietly out a side door. Pat O'Brien, movie star, who was to act as toastmaster at the St. Joe Valley club's banquet for the football squad that night, had just arrived on the campus from Hollywood. Athletic Director Elmer Layden, as one of the reception committee for Mr. O'Brien, started to bring the famous Irishman through the gymnasium's main en­trance, his purpose to introduce the two celebrities. Hundreds of stu­dents, on their way back to their halls after the Hoover lecture had other ideas. O'Brien found himself autographing everything from note­books to jackets and hats. A tri­umphant procession was formed and the toastmaster-to-be was escorted to the Main building where he spoke a few words of appreciation. 
• 

THE MONTH IN BRIEF 
Outstanding social event of the month was the Law Ball. . . . Our condolences to the junior lawyer who invited two girls to the Ball by mis­take, then arranged with Girl No. 1 to have a friend take her to the dance only to have Girl No. 2 become ill at the last minute. . . . Result: That little la\vyer stayed home. . . . Bill Langley, graduate law student, spent some time in travail also. . . . His young lady was to arrive at 8:05 on the evening of the ball. . . . He went to the station to meet her—and the train was listed as being two hours late! ... . A change of mind saved Langley, however. .. . At the last minute the girl had decided to take a bus so the day was saved. 
RELIGIOUS SURVEY IS OUT 
The Religious Survey has been published. . . . Only 15% of those answering confessed regret at not be­ing in attendance at a co-educational institution. . . Edgar Bain, national president of the American Society for Metals, spoke before the local chapter. . . , Members of the debat­ing squad as selected by Coach Wil­liam Coyne include John Marbach, White Plains, New York; Frank 
T. Brame, Alexandria, Louisiana; Schmelzle, Freeport, Illinois; Robert Frank Fitch, Cherokee, Iowa; Red­man Duggan, Durango, Colorado; Thomas P. Mulligan, Cleveland Hts,, Ohio; Richard Meier, Faulkton, So. Dakota, and Charles F. Osbom, Bal­boa Heights, Canal Zone. . . As yet a complete schedule has not been re­leased. . . . Thomas G. Proctor, Elk­hart, Indiana, graduate law student, will act as a special radio debater... The question to be debated this year will be "Resolved: That Congress Shall be Empowered to Fix Minimum Wages and Maximum Hours for Industry." 
' • 

HOME GAME RECORD 
479,500 fans saw the football squad perform last fall. . . Attendance for the five home games, 198,000, set a new record. . . . William Branigan,. Albany, New York, has been named chairman of the Jimior Prom by Scott Reardon, Sioux Falls, South Dakota, president of the Junior class . . . Jack Wilson, Lakewood, Ohio, will be in charge of the Tea Dance . . . The ofiicial Prom song has been written by George Sautar, Indian­apolis, Indiana. . . .The Notre Dame Villager's, campus club made up of students having their homes in South Bend, are already planning for their annual March basketball banquet. . . "Whistling in the Dark," a light com­edy which enjoyed a long run on Broadway a few seasons ago with Ernest Truex in the lead, has been selected by the University Theatre for their first offering of the year.... A cast has been selected but as yet no date has been set for "opening night." 
• 

SCRIP IS OUT 
Initiations into the Monogram club were conducted with less fuss than usual this year. . . . Scrip, campus literary quarterly, made its second appearance of the year. . . . Brother Phil Welsh, Anderson, Indiana, the editor, is doing a neat job. . . . The Bookmen, campus literary group, un­der President Bob McGrath, Oak Park, Illinois, are having an active year with literary teas 'n' everything ... . The $25 annual S.A.C. prizes for freshman scholarship have been awarded Engineer Donald K. Duffey, Cleveland Heights, Ohio, with an av­erage of 95.15%; The Science school topnocher was Lyle W. Russell, Tis­kilwa, Illinois vnth 93.66% ; Aurelius 
J. Rizzi, Lead, South Dakota, led the Commerce school Frosh with 93.5%; While Frederick J. Digb/s 95.08% was highest for Freshmen in Arts and Letters. . . . Digby is from New Orleans, Louisiana. . . . 
ALUMNI CLUBS . . . 
AKRON Wmiun G. Burkhardt. '3S, 60 MaTfield Ave., 
Aknjn. President; Lawrence H. Halter. *31, 
58 Hawthorne Ave., Akron, Secretary. 
* 

ARIZONA 
Vincent Hencesbach. ei.'27. 1710 E. 2nd St. 
Tucson. President: Ted A. Witz. ex.*29. Box 
628. Tucson, Secretary. We shall long remember the treat­
• ment of Coach Layden and the team during their visit in Tucson, while on their way to Los Angeles for the 
U.S.C. game. Elmer, the coaching staff and the boys were present at a gathering of health-seeking veterans at the gov­ernment hospital, after which Dan Cochran, '38, the student who takes the mo\-ies of all the Notre Dame games, had a showing of the pictui-es of the Northwestern game. Later that same evening a private showing of the pictures was given in the room of Eddie Collins, '28, at which a number of the local club were pres­ent. Coach Layden, Joe Boland and 
Bill Cerney visited Ed and presented him with an autographed football. 
Tom Blair, a minim from '13 to '19, was recently maiTied to lone Jackson, and made a trip to Denver for the Christmas season. 
Bob Sullivan, of the class of '36, went to Chicago, for the holidaj-s and returned with the story of the mild weather and rain. 
Joe Ryan, who had been teaching 
in the English department before 
coming here for his health, has re­
turned to Tucson after spending the 
Summer at his home in Chicago. I'm 
glad to report that Prof. Ryan is 
again up and beginning to think 
of that English. 
Ted Witz. 

ARKANSAS Burt L. RoTjerts. 1325 Lincoln Ave.. Little 
Hock. Ark., Secretsry.
* 

BENGAL 
Et ReT. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C.. "02. 
Dacca. Bengal. India, President; Rev. J. J. 
Hennessey. C.S.C.. '02. Dacca. Beneal. India. 
Secretary. 
* 

BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) 
EuRene O'TooIc. '20. 321-,'!25 Slate St.. St. 
Joseph. President: Fjiank A. Dottle. '26. 
1884 S. Colfa.x. Benton Harbor. Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Berrien County held its annual Holiday Ball Monday, Dec. 28, in the Four Flags hotel in Niles. It was a real party with everyone happy from the time it started until the orchestra began to put away" their music, which act brought to everyone's mind — when shall we get together again? 
I do not recall the names of all the Club members present, but here are a few—Gene O'Toole, William Downey, Tom Grimes, John Mead­ows (Santa Claus), Bill Madden, John Jauch, Phil Landsman and Bill Desenberg. 
The Club is planning a meeting for January 25. Frank Deitle. 
* 

BOSTON 
James Dooley. '22. 368 Main St.. North An­
dover. Mass.. President: James Slcahan. *31. 
5 Grove St.. Belmont, Mass.. Secretary. 
BUFFALO George E. Doyle. Jr., '30, Liberty Bank 
BIdjr.. President: Robert Jleascr. '3-1. Am­
herst Bee Co.. Main & Rock Sts.. Williams-
ville. N. Y.. Secretary. 
Jim Britt, former South Bend Tribune radio sports announcer, has begun his work in Buffalo over the Buffalo Eveiihig News radio station WBEN, where he is commenting on current sports for a national oil com­pany. The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo is planning on having Mr. Britt as guest of honor at an affair to be held soon. 
George E. Ooyle, Jr., was elected president of the Notre Dame -\lumni club of Buffalo at the annual election of officers held Monday evening, Jan. 18, at the offices of the Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance company in the Liberty Bank building, Buffalo. 
Tfte 1936-37 Board 
Arthur J. Hughes. '11, Chicago, III President Ray J. Eichenlaub, '! 5, Columbus, Ohio '. ." First Vice-President 
Henry I. Doclcweiler, '12, Los Angeles, Cal Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame Secretary-Treasurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame Assistant Secretary Fred L. Steers, 'M. Chicago. Ill Director to 1937 James E. Deery, '10, Indianapolis, Ind Director to 1938 Don P. O'Keefe, '03, Detroit. Mich Director to 1939 Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, N. J Director to 1940 Bernard J. Voll. '17, South Bend. Ind Director to 1937 (ex-officio] Joseph Waidron, '36, Trenton, N.J , ..Director to 1937 
Tfte 7936-37 Disfriet Governors 
Alexis Coquillard, '03, South Bend, Ind District 1 Fred L. Steers, '11, Chicago District 2 Dr. Leo D. O'Donneil, "17, Pittsburgh. Pa District 3 Eugene A. O'Brien. '28, Minneapolis. Minn District 4 Dr. John T. Burns, '13, Kalamazoo, Mich District 5 
B. K. Wingerter. '26, East Orange. N. J District 6 Hugh A. O'Donneil, '94, New York Gty District 7 John J. Huether, '22, Schenectady, N. Y District 8 Thomas Collins, '28, Fall River, Mass District 9 Anselm D. Miller, '25. Roanoke. Va District 10 Frank W. Thomas, '23, Tuscaloosa, Ala District 11 William Reisert, Jr., "29. Louisville, Ky District 12 Cyprian Sporl, Jr., '28, New Orleans, La District 13 
D. Patrick Bueil, '24. Dallas. Texas District 14 Daniel F. Foley. '23, Ft. Leavenworth, Kan District 15 Clarence Ruddy. '27, Aurora. Ill District 16 Earl W . Brown, '93. Helena, Mont District 17 James P. Logan, '18. Denver, Colo District 18 Anton R. Hebenstreit, '11, Albuquerque, New Mex District 19 
W. Breen McDonald, '17, San Francisco, Calif. ^ District 20 Samuel M. Dolan. '10. North Bend, Ore .District 21 To be elected: District 22 
Mr. Doyle succeeds John G. Byrne as president of the club. 
Other officers elected include Frank J. Ca»«, vice-president; Ralph 
F. Else, treasurer; and Robert S. Measer, secretary. Mr, Cass succeeds Ml-. Doyle, Ralph Else takes the posi­tion held by Carlos Frank for t»V0 years, and Mr. Measer was returned to the office of secretary for his third term. . 
Directors for the year include Wil­liam Cass, Carlos Frank, Jack Leon­ard, Martin Ryan, Donald Love, Michael Sheedy, Frank Donahue, Robert Moore and Dr. Robert Burns and the new officers. 
After the election of the new-president. Jay L. Lee, iirst president of the Buffalo club, lauded the out­going president and moved that a rising vote of thanks be given Mr. Byi-ne in tribute to the splendid work done by him. The election of Mr. Measer was made unanimous, and he also received a rising vote of thanks 
The 1937 Easter dance of the club will be held Easter Monday, March 29, in the Terrace Room of the Hotel Statler, it was announced by the new president. Executive appointments for the dance committee included Robert Measer, chairman, Charles Love, William A. Measer, James Leahy, William Torrey, Martin Ryan, Gordon Bennett and Marinello. Oth­er appointments will be made at a later date. 
Always the climax of the winter season, this year's Easter dance will surpass anything ever attempted by the Buffalo Alumni club. An out­standing orchestra is being negotiated with, and arrangements are being made to present brilliant entertain­ment. Funds derived from these an­nual dances are being used to estab­lish a scholarship fund. 
A block'of 200 seats has been re­served by the local club for the bas­ketball tilt between Notre Dame and Canisius college at the Broadway auditorium on Feb. 15. The sale of seats ^\^ll open shortly and may be purchased at Bums Bros, clothing store. The club hopes to entertain the visiting team while they are in Buffalo, and tentative plans call for a trip to Niagara Falls. 
Sunday, Jan. 24, the club members and friends vrill view the '36 football pictures. The showing was arranged by Paul Hoeffler, and the affair will be held in the auditorium of the Holy Cross church, with the program opening at 3 o'clock. 
One of the problems of the officers of the club is the raising of money to pay for current operating ex­penses. It was decided to hold a series of stag parties throughout the coming year, with a nominal admis­sion charge being made. It is hoped that this method could give the club enough revenue to carry on its activities. 
William A. Measer, who received his degree of bachelor of arts from Notre Dame in '35, has been engaged by the Williamsville High School, and will start his duties at the new semes­ter, beginning January 25. He will teach social studies and ancient his­tory. 
Mr. Measer was secured to relieve the congestion in the social studies department of the Williamsville school. He received his early training at Neumann high school, Williams­ville, f ollo^ving which he attended the University, where he majored in so­cial science. Following graduation, he did post-graduate work at Canisius College, Buffalo. 
J. Franklin O'Marah, past presi­dent of the Buffalo club, broke ground Monday for a new home at Wanakah. Another past president, Gordon Bennett, is the proud father of a son, Richard B., bom last No­vember. This is Gordon's second child. 
Bob Measer. 
* 
CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-Ill.) 
John Rohrbach. '23, Crown Point. Ind.. President: Fred J. Solman. Jr., '28, 5752 
•Erie Ave., Hammond. Ind., Secretary. 
CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) 
Richard S. Walsh, "31. 2191 Plaia, Schenec­tady, K. y.. President: John B. Land. '34. 4 Hedeewood Ave., Schenectady. Secretary. 
A late December letter from John Land, secretarj' of the club said that, despite of many icy blasts, more than 30 members gathered in Tom and Bud Farley's restaurant in -A.lbany to listen to the broadcast of the Southern Cal game. 
-\dded John: "Why did they go, in preference to staying at home within reach of a warm fireplace? Why that's an easy one—simply to be to­gether again. They love it I tell you —not a finer group of men ever graduated from Notre Dame." 
The club had the first Notre Dame Christmas dance held in this area by alumni. We were fortunate in hav­ing our efforts result in a dance which was very successful in every respect. -Although our club consists of less than 50 alumni, over 100 couples attended. 
Richard S. Walsh. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hermes, '16. 1910 Oakland St.. Lansin^r. President; J. Harvey Gauthier, *50, Baric River, Mich.. Secretary. 
* 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY 
Anthony V. Ceres, '28. Perth Amboy Natl. Banlc BidfcPerth Amboy, President: John Lisiclu, '31, 215 Water Street. Perth Amboy, Secretary. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Raymond J. Ei^enlaab. *15, Hoster Realty Bids., Coimnbus. President. 
Don Hamilton and I are leaving for New York to attend the annual Foot­ball Coaches' meeting at the Pennsyl­vania Hotel. Expect to see Elmer and Art over there, as well as a lot of other Notre Dame men now coach­ing. Before I go I want to mention for Central Ohio Club news that Don Hamilton was elected president of the Ohio -Association of Football Officials at their meeting, Dec. 13. 
This organization is one of the old­est groups of its kind in this country drawn together for the study and in­terpretation of football rules. It is the largest and probably the best or­ganized. Don Hamilton was one of the originators. The meetings pre­liminary to its organization, as well the first meeting after consummation, took place in Don Hamilton's of&ce at Columbus, Ohio. Every year at the interpretation meeting and since the first gathering we have enjoyed the presence of Major John L. GrifBtb, commissioner of athletics of the Western Conference, and Walter R. Okeson of the Football Rules Com­mittee. 
Ray J. Eichenlaub. 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA 
Leonard Bums, '25, 1635 20th Ave., Altoona. Pa., President: William McAleer, '31. 1518 19th Ave., Altoona, Pa., Sccretaiy. 
CHICAGO 
Edward W. Gould. '23, 1313 W. Randolph St, President: Patrielc F. Crowley. '33, 742 Junior Terrace, Secretary. 

CINCINNATI 
Franlc H. Sweeney, ex. *17. Kemper Lane Hotel, President: Clarence Brinlc. "31. 1306 Cryer Ave.. Hyde Parle. Secretary. 

The Christmas dance, held on the evening of Dec. 26, at the Makete­wah Country Club, has gone down in the annals as the finest party ever held by the Notre Dame Club of Greater Cincinnati. Nearly 250 peo­ple were in attendance, the big feat­ure of the evening being the presen­tation of Bob Wilke to the crowd. 
It was the writer's good fortune to meet John B. Kennedy while here in Cincinnati as chief speaker at the Ohio State Hotel Convention. 
Listeners to the Columbia broad­cast, over Station WKRC, greatly enjoyed hearing Bob Wilke on the air the night of Dec. 29. Bob was interviewed by our good friend Dick Bray, sports commentator of WKRC. 
Congratulations are being offered to that good Democrat, Joseph Kin­neary, who has just been appointed an assistant on the attorney general's staff. Best wishes, Joe. We all hope you keep on stepping up the ladder. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus February. 1937 
Plans are now being made for our Februarj- meeting, at which time we hope to have the pleasure of having Warren Giles, newly appointed man­ager of the Cincinnati baseball club, as our guest speaker. 
Credit should be given our presi­dent, Harry Crumley, and his dance committee, consisting of Albert Cas­tellini, Donald Dixon, Robert Hughes and George Aug, for the success of the Christmas party, which was the means of founding our Scholarship fund. A nice start has been made, and we hope with consistent work to increase this to the required amount 
The officers for the coming year are as follows: President, Frank H. Sweeney ; vice - president, Clem Crowe; secretaiy, Clarence Brink; treasurer, Robert Van Lahr and tl-u?­tee, Harry Crnzr.ley. 
Frank Sweeney. 
CLEVELAND 
J. Patrick Canny, "28. 1660 Warren Road. 
Lakewood. Ohio, President: Lawrence Krai. 
"31. 276 E. 272 St.. Cleveland, Ohio, Secre­
tary. With all the holiday fanfare be­hind us, we sneak a few anacin tab­lets (commercial plug for Louie O'Shea), separate the cobwebs from the brain fodder and we blink at the New Year. In retrospect, 193G ti-eated us pretty fine. We had well-attended and successful activities and a sci-appy, fighting football team helped to create new friends and new followers. In fact, as 1937 was rapping on the door we enjoyed our most successful venture. 
With Clayt Leroux in the saddle, almost 250 couples thi'onged the Rainbow Room at the Carter Hotel on December 26 to enjoy the annual Alumni and Student Christmas Dance. Financially speaking it was the best in club historj'. Jim Driscol! and Jack Collins handled the gate; John Beljon, the music; Nick Ruffing and Gene Ling, reception; Denny O'Neill, the bids; and the hostess committee under the guiding hands of the Mesdames Rohr, Perkins and Canny helped to sell the dance from the ladies' angle —and all under the Midas touch of Leroux. 
In line with progi-ess and fact we are proud to announce our own "Share the Wealth" program. Pat Canny formally and solemnly pro­claims the birth of a scholarship fund. Pat says, "Alma Materlly speaking we've got to become streamlined." 
Ray Miller, former mayor of Cleve­land, is a father for the sixth time with a boy . . . Don Miller announces his fourth, a girl .. . Ed Killeen, his second, a boy . . . and John Butler and Joe Butler, one each and both are boys. 
Congratulations are being offered to Frank Celebrezze on his elevation to a judgeship by appointment from Governor Davey. And Frank is sing­ularly honored because it is the first time in the histoiy of the city that a man of Italian parentage has graced the municipal bench. Frank is the former assistant police prosecutor. 
Gene Milliff has foi'mally an­nounced his engagement. Jack Flynn has resigned his assistant safet}' di­rectorship post and has resumed the 
private pi-actice of law Cy Mathews is head of the dispensarj' and is editor-in-chief of the shop news at the National Malleable-Com­pany . . . Dan O'Brien is selling tool steel for the Peninsular Steel Com­pany . . . Benny McAdams, of the At­lantic Commissions Company, will lo­cate in Cleveland permanently. . . . Ed Blatt has changed over to Victor Adding Machine Company and is ready to talk business. 
Nick RufRng is practising law with Keenan and Butler, with his new resi­dence at Quad Hall . . . interesting sidelight, George Kozack's John Ad­ams High School football team nosed out Joe Gavin's Holy Name team, 13 to 12, in the last fifteen seconds of play, and George made application for the title of champion high school football coach of Cleveland alumni for 1936. After the loth of Januarj' Dan Duffy will move into his own offices in the Terminal Tower Bldg. 
Gay Haas and family have settled down in Dayton, Ohio, to be near his new post on the radio commission at Roosevelt Field . . . Frank Svoboda has gone to work for the Mutual Building and Investment Company. . . . Dr. Bill Bambrick, the lormer Sophomore Hall flash, says the den­tist business is good provided you know the right people, and in an official bulletin states he's eager to be introduced . . . has anybody seen Tom Byrne lately? .. . Ed Masterson, with the Patterson Sargent Company, has been shifted to Detroit to gain selling experience in the paints and varnish lines . . . Chuck (Insurance) Mooney can tell j'ou the time of day you're most likely to be involved in an acci­dent and the cause too if you tell him your age . . . Lcs Raddatz is working for the Cleveland Electric Illumin­ating Company. 
Prayers are asked for the fathers of Ed Blatt and Jack and Jerry Reidy, who died recently. 
Jerry Krai. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY Harry J. Deegan, ex. '31. 100 Francis Ave.. 
Hartford, Conn., President: John M. Ciancl, 
'29, 500 Allen St., New Britain, Conn., 
Secretary. 
* 
DALLAS James P. Swift '24. 1202 Southwestern Life 
Bide., Dallas. President: Francis A. UcCnl­
louch, '30, 917 First National Banic Bids., 
Dallas. Secretary. 

DAYTON Eofene Hayl, '24, 400 Irving Ave., Presi­
dent : William Cronin. '29, 418 Crafbon Ave., 
Secretary, 

DENVER Robert A. Dick. '29, 931 14th Ave., Presi­
dent; Harry Lawrence, '29, 1951 Lawrence 
St., Secretary. 

DETROIT Gilbert F. Sehaefer. '26, 17380 Monica, Pres­
ident: John W. Brennan, '27, 632 Fisher 
Bids., Secretary. 

The December meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit was held on Monday night, December 4, at the University Club. Plans had been made by the committee, WiUard Crotty and Emmett Kelley. 
Emmett and Bill dedicated this meeting to the "Old Timers." Harry Kelly classified them as those mem­bers who finished at Notre Dame be­fore the World War. It was a splen­did idea. The attendance necessitated using the main ballroom. 
Gil Sehaefer, our president, opened the meeting with a tribute to the Old Timers and presided over a brief business session. He read a wire from the University. It was a for­warded invitation to attend a gather­ing sponsored by Bishop Gallagher to initiate organized acti\ity against Communism in this area. Bill Mc­Cullough represented our club and gave us a report of the plans which were outlined. He suggested that all members who are able should attend a series of instnictions given by Father Seidenberg, S.J., at Columbus Hall for the training of men to take part in this program. 
Gil and the writer each talked to the members again about the Notre Dame Lecture Series which opened on December 11. Professor Daniel 
C. O'Grady, Ph.D. spoke on "A Sense of Humor." 
Line Wurzer then gave the boys a rousing pep talk about the coming Christmas Supper Dance held at the Intercollegiate Club on December 29. His plans promised a vei-y colofrul party- Line closed his remarks with a special invitation to the Old Timers. 
The meeting was then turned over to Harry Kelly, the toastmaster, and what a past master of this art he turned out to be. The details of his witty introductions and the good hu­mored but spirited repartee of the rest of his gang were lost in the writer's enjojTnent of the proceedings when he should have been taking notes. Suffice it to say, that Harj-y introduced each of these men and each responded in part by telling the younger men something of the life, friends and joys of their days at Notre Dame. 
I dare say Leo Mclnemy took the prize when he described the time he accidentally dropped something through the roof and it landed on the 
faculty dinner table at meal time. We heard from Ray Kelley, Tom Nester, Howard Beechinor, Louis Ma­lone, Judge La Joie, George Hanlon, Jim O'Brien. Jim recalled the first meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit in 1910. 
Line Wurzer's father was one of ten of the organizers. He traced our history from then to our present or­ganization, which includes some 270 members. He paid special tribute to Don O'Keefe, Gus Dorais, JoKn Moore, Marc Verbiest, John Higgins, At Slaggert, Bill McCullough, Paul McCuUough, Paul Dooley, Joe Norton and others who have also been very prominent in its growth. 
We all enjoyed the meeting, and it left us with a closer tie to our local club and to Notre Dame. 
John W. Brennan. 

The Januai-y meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit was held on Jan. 5 at the Universitj' Club. The meeting was sponsored by the "Legal Group" and handled by the commit­tee. Judge Thomas C. Murphy, Chas. 
M. A. Martin, Raymond J. Kelly. 
Gil Schaefer, our president, pre­sided over a short business session. This included a resume by Line Wurzer of a veiy successful Christ­mas Supper Dance. It was held at the Intercollegiate Club and was a complete sell - out. The committee had a hard time keeping the late comers provided with tables. Many of the "Old Timers" were there. It was a swell party. 
Georgs Costello presented the treasurer's report. A letter from the .A.lumni Office was read regarding contacts with prospective students for next year. Ed Crowe is going to follow this matter through and it is in good hands. The club looks to him for help in the hard things and he always comes through. You will hear from him through new student ap­plications. 
A tribute was paid to Judge Thom­as C. Murphy for his inspiring guid­ance and substantial help in foster­ing the club's activities for this season. 
A great deal of discussion took place about the reinstatement of scholarships. The club feels, as ex­pressed by our president, that the time isn't ripe to go into such a pro-gi'am. However, Harry Kelly pointed out a very proud fact—The Notre Dame Club of Detroit has sponsoi-ed at least one Detroit boy completely through Notre Dame and on to grad­uation and a job. Say what you will we are proud of that. Men like Don O'Keefe, Jack Higgins, John E. 
Moore, and the others who helped, have set a high standard for this phase of our future plans. 
The real "business" of the meet­ing then began when Gil introduced Charles Martin who acted as M. C. for the "Legal Group." He did a good job. One of the most welcome men at our meetings is Harry Kelly. He is genuinely interested in every­thing that goes on and he puts a real punch in all of our discussions. Judge Thomas C. Murphy, of Wayne County Probate Court, then deliv­ered a well prepared talk on the subject close to his daily activities. He explained how his Court func­tions in taking care of the many phases of delinquency which come under his jurisdiction. It left all of us with a new appreciation of what these men do. His talk prompted many questions and enlightening answers. 
The meeting closed then, and now we are all looking forward to see­ing the pictures of the Southern Cali­fornia game on Feb. 1. 
John W. Brennan. 

DES MOINES 
Harry O'Boyle. '27. 2801 Grand Ave. Presi­dent: Richard Hyde, '35. 678 26th St, Secretary. 

DUBUQUE 
C. I. Kraiewski. '16. 321 Bank & Insurance Bide, President; Henry I. Trenklc. '24, ISO 
S. Booth St.. Secretary. 

EASTERN INDIANA 
Thomas A. Cannon. •33. 401 Wysor Bldg.. Muncie. Ind.. President: Alvis E. Grander, er. '31. 617 S. Jefferson St.. Hartford City. Ind., Secretary. 
* 

EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Leo R. Mclntyrc, '28, Bethlehem, President: Ernest L. Wilhelm. '27, New Jersey Zinc Co., Research X)ept., Palmerton, Secretary. 
* 

ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA 
Richard D. Daley, '17, Erie Daily Times. President; Thomas Barber, '24, 416 New­man St., Secretary. 
* 

FAIRFIELD COUNTY 
James Murphy, '22, 611 Security Bld^., Bridgeport. Conn., President; Joseph E. Russo, '32, 166 Hough Ave., Bridgeport, Conn., Secretary. 

FLINT (Michigan) 
Stephen J. Roth, "31, 723 Union Industrial Bldfr- President: DonaJd F. MacDonoId, '31, 1631 W. Court St.. Secretary. 

tORT WAYNE, INDIANA Edward S. Sullivan. '24. 125 E. Suttenfield St., President: Maurice J. DeWald, '33, 2415 Huburtus St., Secretary. On Monday evening, December 21, we held our annual get together alumni and undergraduate dinner. Those alumni present were: Donnelly 
McDonald, Ed Sullivan, Frank Hogan, Henry Hasley, Cliff Ward, George Baldus, John Logan, Jack Wynn and myself. Frank Hogan was the speak­er of the evening. He welcomed the undergraduates into our club and ex­plained the purposes of our alumni group. 
James B. Clark, of Jersey City, New Jersey, spent Christmas here in Fort Wayne. 
Henry Hasley, our anti-Communism chairman, has called a luncheon meet­ing of club officers and board of di­rectors to plan and prepare for our big meeting on January 25. 
Maurice J. DeWald. 

Shortly before Christmas the fol­lowing editorial appeared in the Ft. Wayne Netvs Sentinel under the caption, "Cheer, Cheer for Notre Dame!": 
"All parents—and not a few others—will be plad to cheer, not for the Notre Dame football team, which always gets its full share of applause, but the Notre Dame Qub of Fort Wayne far the policy which it has adopted to govern its annual formal Christmas dance, Saturday evening. December 26, at the Cath­olic Community Center. 
"The Club, comprising undergraduates, graduates, and former students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dnmo, has advised the Most Rev. John Francis Noll. Bishop of Ft. Wayne, and also oOiccrs of the Catholic Youth Organ­ization here, that its annual Christmas dance will begin at 9 o'clock, instead of at 10 or 11: and that it will come to a close promptly at midnight, instead of at 2 or 3 o'clock in the morning as has become customary at too many holiday dances. 
"In addition to this entirely commendable rule, moreover, the Club has announced that it will retiuest patrons not to bring liquor to the dance, and that Catholic Community Center officials will be enioinetl that no 'set­ups' be served. 
"It is quite widely felt that customs regard­ing holiday dances in recent years have been grawing much too rapidly in a decidedly wrong direction—due largely to bad examples set by organizations of older men and women. 
"Some difficulty has been experienced in obtaining the cheerful acquicsence of boys and girls of high-school ago in requests to follow a certain pattern of hours and habits when their older brothers, and sisters and friends of college age (as well as their parents, in many cases) see fit to follow another pattern. 
"The Notre Dame Club, therefore, deser^'es an expression of cordial approval for its common-sense effort to start a swing toward more decent and sensible rules and regula­tions governing social affairs. 
"W e have had enough expressions from hundretls of readers to convince us that there is a quite general public opinion in support of the proposition that there is little or no logical reason for dances to begin near mid­night and to last until 2 or 3 o'clock in the morning—and that certainly there is no logic­al reason whatever why dancing cannot be enjoyed without drinking. 
"It appears to be agree<l by a large major­ity, indeed, that the hours between 9 and mid­night are actually the best for dancing, whether the dancing is i)eing done by high-school pupils or by their older brothers and sisters or their parents. 
"Furthermore, there is no admissable excuse for requiring those attending school affairs to risk the evils of drinking. 
"In all. the Notre Dome Club has set a fine e:(ample—one which many other organizations contemplating holiday parties might very profitably accord their cheerful emulation." 
GRAND RAPIDS 
Georce £. Ladwi^, '2S, 328 Glenhaven Ave.. 
N. W.. President: Rajrmond J. Bonini, 'Zl. 607 Atwood. N.E., Secretary. 
* 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
Harold L>. Londo, '24. CSty Ensineera* office, Cit7 Rail, President: Levi A. Geniesse. '24. 510 Uinahan Bid?,. Secretary. 
GREATER LOUISVILLE 
Raymond Pfeiffer. '32. 3032 Leiington Ed., 
louisville. President; John B. Ratterman, 
Jr.. ex. '32. 2114 W. Market St.. Louisville, 
Secretary. The club devoted a large part of the December meeting to a discus­sion of the University-sponsored anti Communist campaign. President Ray Pfeiffer outlined the drive and an­nounced the appointment of James Costello and William Sherman as chairman and co-chairman, respect­ively, of the committee. 
Mr. Costello, who spoke on Com­munism, pointed out that 117 Com­munist votes were cast in Kentucky in the November election. Later Mr. Sherman said that with the members behind the movement, giWng their entire support, the success of this drive is assured. 
The basketball game Jan. 5 in Louisville between N.D. and U. of 
K. revealed the indisputable fact that Notre Dame stands high in the es­teem of Louisville basketball fans. .A.n almost capacity crowd of 7,000 spectators filled every seat in the huge Armory. One section of seats was reserved for dub members and their guests. 
Another memoi-able date was the occasion of our holiday dance Jan. 2. A great deal of credit is due dance chairman, Russ Leonard, and his committeemen for the success of the gala night. 
Notre Dame students who wero 
home for the Christmas holidays 
were guests of honor at our Decem­
ber meeting. They were introduced 
to the members and joined in the 
good fellowship and refreshments 
which always follow our meetings. 
Joseph B. Ratterman, Jr. 
* 
GOGEBIC RANGE (Michlsan) Robert O'Callaghan. ex. '16. Goedjic Na­
tional Bank, Iron^rood. President; Francti 
J. Vukovich, '35, Ridse St., Ironwood, HIch.. 
Secretary. 
On the 20th of December a ban­quet was held at the Simonich Hall of Jesseville location in honor of our "One Man Gang," Eddie Simonich. -Approximately 200 people attended the banquet. Although our club did not undertake the job of putting over this banquet, a number of our members were present. Victor Lem-mer gave a very interesting sketch of Eddie's progress at school. 

Under the leadership of Eddie Simonicli the students from school had a private party at the Monteray. The Ashland boys aided in making 
this party a success. The writer and 
A. McCulloush, '35, from Ashland, Wis., were the only two graduates, but it did not make much difference as a very good time was had by all. 
The annual Gogebic N. D. dinner was held at the Iron Inn of Iron­wood, Michigan on Dec. 30. Among those present were Victor Lemmer, Robert O'Callaghan, Robert Sullivan of Newport Heights, Frank Leuey­lons, Robert Sullivan, Ted and Geo. Nolan, Eddie Simonich, Paul and Joe Raineri of Hurley', Wisconsin. Future activities were discussed at the meet­ing and it was agreed to again have the Eockne Mass said at the shrine. 
Frank Vukovich. 
* 
HAMILTON, OHIO 
Mi O. Bums. '86. 338 S. Second St.. Preii­
denl: Marc A. Fiebrer, '27, 701 Renticbler 
Bids.. Secretary. The Hamilton club, with the city of Hamilton, on Dec. 30 paid tribute to the gridiron exploits of one of the "home town boys," Bob Wilke, who played halfback on the Notre Dame team of 1936. Three hundred persons attended a banquet in Bob's honor arranged by the club. The local Chamber of Commerce pre­sented him with a gold watch and chain. 
Coach Bill Cerney, despite many offers from Hollywood, was on hand to talk and to show the movies of the Ohio State game of last Fall. Coach William Sharp, Bob Wilke's coach in the Hamilton Catholic High school, also spoke, praising Bob and predicting big things in football from another graduate of the same school, Russell Nickel, who was a sophomore halfback on the Notre Dame squad last Fall. Wilke and Nickel both spoke. Michael O. Burns, president of the club, was the toastmaster. 
Vincent B. Pater was chairman of the committee in charge of the ban­quet. He was assisted by the follow­ing: M. O. Burns, Harry Walsh, Clem Pater, Jr., Ernest Schrichte, Marc Fiehrer, Harry Wilke, Fritz Frem­gen and Gus Holstein. 
* HARRISBURG 
Edward C. Smitb. '01. 2623 N. Second SL, President: Jobn J. McNeill, '33, OWTTOM Motor Co.. Secretary. 

HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.) 
Gerald J. Qeary, '21. 310 Lake Shore Dr.. Escanaba. Mich.. President: Edward J. Dundon. '22. Iron Mountain. Mich.. Secre­tary. 

HOUSTON 
M. E. Walter. '14. 1702 Stuart Ave.. Hooi­ton. President; Thomas F. Green, Jr., '47, Conroe, Texas, Secretary. 

JACKSON, MICHIGAN 
Lester Wisda. '31. lOIE S. Ganaon St., President: Lyman Hill. '29, 224 S. Ueehanie St, Secretary. 
JOLIET, ILLINOIS 
Robert Baskerville. '31, 104 Younsi Ave.. President: Qarence Wilhelmi, '18, 909 Oneida St. Secretary. 
* INDIANAPOLIS Charles E. Mason. '26. Indiana Bell Tele­
phone Co.. President; Frank P. McCarthy. 
•28. 819 N. Gray St. Secretary. Professor Pat Manion was to be the principal speaker at the Indian­apolis club anti-Communism meeting on Jan. 25 in the Civic Theater, ac­cording to announcement by Charlie Mason, president of the club, and George Bischoff, chairman of the anti-Communist committee. Pat w^as 
to talk on "Communism and the Nat­ural Rights of Man." 
* KANSAS 
Albert J. Gebert. '30. U. of Wichita. Wich­ita. Kansas, President: Dan Welchons. '30. 623 Ebn St.. Ottawa. Kansas, Secretary. 
KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) 
Robert Tyler, '29, 3616 Paseo Blvd., Kansas City, Mo., President: Charles E. Meyer, '29, 420 E. Armour Blvd.. Kansas City, Mo.. Secretary. 
LAPORTE, INDIANA 
Clarence Bunco. '25, 613 Ridee St, Presi­dent: Stephen Shapley, '30, Goodyear Tire Co., Secretary. 
* 
LOS ANGELES 
Eusene M. Kennedy. '22. Bank of America. 7th & Spring: St. President: Douglas Daley. '30, 781 Ceres Ave., Secretary. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
p. E. Burke. '88. 307 Camp St, New Or­leans. La.. President; Qyprian A. Sporl, Jr.. '28. Whitney-Central Bldg.. New Orleans. La.. Secretary. 
* 
MANILA 
Eduardo Hoxas, '33. 719 Exchange. Manila. President: Leopoldo Brias, Manila. Secre­tary. 
* MEMPHIS 
John S. •Jlontodonico. *35. 327 Konilworth 
PI.. President: Thcon F. DohoKne. '27. 
1072 S. Wellinstotn St. Secretary. 

Frenchy Dohogne asked me to write and tell you that the Notre Dame Club of Memphis still exists; in fact we are prospering. 
I don't know when the last report of activities here in Memphis ap­peared in the ALUMNUS, but it must have been long ago. However, during this time the Memphis boys met dur­ing the Christmas holidays and on Notre Dame Night. 
Sturia Canale got us together on Jan, 2. We ate and then held an election. John Montedonico was elected president. T. A. Canale, vice-president, and Frenchy Dohogne is secretary, 
John then appointed Sturia Ca­nale, Fred Bauer and Jerry Foley as a committee to cooperate with Notre Dame against Communism. 
We all owe a debt to Sturia. He organized all meetings and carried 
out all plans "with little or no assist­ance. We prospered as a club only because Sturla was the leader, 
John, with the good foundation prepared by Sturla, will make us an active alumni group. 
Next month we hope to send you a social report on the alumni here in Memphis. 
Best wishes for a big year. 
T. J. Foley, Jr. 

MIAMI, FLORIDA 
Vincent C. Giblin. '18, 4103 Collins Ave., Miami Beach, President; Daniel J. Lino, ex. 
•34, 1617 N. W. Ninth Ave., Miami, Secre­tary. 
* 

MILWAUKEE 
Joseph Griffin, '28, 210 E. Michiran St. President: Jean LaBonle, '29, B24 E. Mason St., Secretary. 
* 

MONTANA 
William B. Jones. '28, 411 Power Bide, 
Helena, President; Rev. John Resan, '24, 
Bishop's House, Great Falls, Secretary. 

NEW JERSEY 
Raymond A. Gciser. *32, 446 Eastern Park­way, IrvinKton, N. J.. President: Daniel O'Neill, '26, 184 N. Walnut St., E. Orange, 
N. J., Secretary. 

First, read of the December meet­ing of the Notre Dame Club of New Jersey at the Essex House, Newark. Alumni members to the number of 30 listened to the report of the pay­ment of the final installment on the club's box in the Notre Dame sta­dium. There was one report unani­mously approved by members and that's a collector's item in the history of local alumni affairs. 
The advertised guest speaker ap­peared, thereby maintaining our un­broken record in announcement promises. The speaker, Len Elliot of the Newark Evening News, gave a preview of the impending meeting of the Football Rules committee and his highlights were especially interesting on the topic of possible changes in the rule covering pass interference. 
The January meeting was marked by three important announcements, noted in order as follows: 
1.
 The Christmas Dance, highly successful and a tribute to the work of the alumni committee headed by Bill Quirk and the cooperation of the students' group under the leadership of Bill Bruno. 

2.
 Plans for the New Jersey club's participation in the drive against Communism. With Bob Phelan as chairman the following alumni mem­bers are directing the local program: 


S. A. Bontempo, Edward Duggan, Gerald GrifBn, Sam Colarusso, John Blanda, Jack Winberry, Dan O'Neill, Harvey Rockwell, B. K. Wingerter, Tom Farrell, Peter J. Quinn. Inci­dentally, our guest speaker for this meeting was Past Grand Knight Cummings of Newark Council 150, Knights of Columbus. In addition to offering timely advice based on his extensive experience in public for. ums, Mr. Cummings invited alumni members to attend a series of lec­tures on Communism to be delivered by the Right Reverend Monslgnor Fulton J. Sheen at the Newark School of Fine and Industrial -Art on Jan. 24, Jan. 31, and Feb. 7 at 
8:30 p.m. 
3. The Universal Notre Dame Night banquet committee is headed by Russell Riley. He will be sup­ported by Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., Wil­liam Farrell, William Quirk, Pat Troy, James Clark, August Church, Tom Farrell, Phil Heinle, Dave Froe­lich, John J. Wingerter and Jack Winberry. 
D. J. O'Neill. 
* 

NEW YORK CITY 
J, Norbcrt Gelson. '26, 1201 Troy Ave.. 
Brooklyn, President; Warren S. Foffel. '30. 
70 Wall St., Secretary. 
* 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Mark G. Krcutzer, '24, 311 California St., 
Rm. 524, San Francisco. President; Elmer 
Wynne, '29, c/o E. S. Townsend Co., 16th 
Fl., Russ Bide, San Francisco, Secretary. 

NASHVILLE Kennedy Jones, *30, Jones Chemical Com­pany, Secrelarj*. 
* 

OKLAHOMA Joseph A. Moran, '32, 1611 S. Carson, Tulsa. President; Marlon J. Blake, '33. National Bank of Tulsa Bldf;., Tulsa, Secretary. 
* 

OREGON 
Samuel M. Dolnn, '10. 4726 N. E. Alamefla 
Drive, Portland, President; J. Ron Sullivan, 
'30, 611 Board of Trade Bide.. Portland, 
Secretary. 
* 

PARIS Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris Office, New York Herald-Trihune, Paris. France, President. 
* 

PEORIA 
Bradley Prescott. ex. *3X, Central Illinots 
Lisht Co., President: AI Gury, Jr., '28, 
612 Alhany Ave., Secretary. 

The Peoria N. D. Club has made a lot of plans and resolutions for the coming year of 1937, so the officers of the club have a lot of work piled up for them. 
Our Christmas Dance was a great success, both financially and other­wise, some 200 couples attending. 
We had a fine dinner meeting Tuesday, Jan. 9, the chairmen being Jerry Sheehan and Dr. R. J. Van Sant, former baseball and football stars at Notre Dame. Jerry Sheehan's brother at the present time is a coach of the Cincinnati Reds. 
We are planning on a large meet­ing in response to the Alumni asso­ciation's program against Commun­ism. The chairman of the meeting, will be Attorney George Sprenger, assisted by William Motsett, Joe Langton, Al Gury, .Jr., John Carm­ody, Ernie Hechinger, John Sloan, William Wollers, Robert Rainey, Vin­cent Rickey, Tom McSweeney, Al Welzenbacb, Jack Grieter and Brad­ley Pre«cott, club president. 
We are planning on working out a constitution and by-laws for our local club. The committee in charge is John Sloan, chairman; Ernie Hech­inger, Joe Langton, AI Gury, Jr. 
A pamphlet, in which we will have printed the constitution and by-laws, and a list of members of the club, we will distribute to each member on the payment of dues. 
Our next dinner meeting will be held Feb. 9 with AI Welzenback, and Spalding Slevin as the committee in charge. 
We are planning on a big evening Universal Notre Dame Night. Fred Meyers is on the Committee and he has written for either the -Army or the Northwestern pictures. We are planning on about 300 at this dinner in the Hotel Pere Marquette. 
AI Gury, Jr. 
* 

PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. J. Hilkert. '22. 408 TiUe i Trust Bids.. Phoenix. President. 
The PhoenLx Notre Dame Club greatly feels the loss of its former hard-working and hard-driving sec­retary, Julius J. Danch, who has moved back to his former home in Gary, Indiana. A letter just received from Julius gives his new address as 1728 Van Buren Street. Julius re­ports that he has made business con­nections in Gary that give a promis­ing outlook for the future. 
A former "pillar" of the Phoenix Club, who has migrated to Madera, California, Thomas Julian Malay, re­ports that all is well on the Western front and that he can be found at his new domicile in the Adelia Hotel. 
Another stand-by of the Phoenix Club has taken leave to make the \vinter sports of northern Arizona famous. Sam Locken, the district di­rector of the Works Progress Admin­istration recreation program, is mak­ing famous, not only Prescott's (Ari­zona) snow carnival and winter sports, but also himself. Sam has been making the front page of the Phoenix newspapers and the news broadcasts. 
The president of the Phoenix Club, John Hilkert, has been incapacitated since before Christmas. He is suf­fering from a return of his war-time disability in his leg which, during his college days at Notre Dame caused John to use a cane. It is rumored that John was the inspiration in 1922 for the beginning of the custom of senior Notre Dame law students carrying canes. 
John Hilkert. 
* 

PHILADELPHIA 
Walter Bidley. '». (824 K. IKh St. 
Proldcnt: A. J. Wukermaa. 'SS, 6SES 
Chew Stnet, Seatttar. 
The Philadelphia alumni club held its annual Christmas dance on Dec. 28 at the Ritz-Carlton hotel vdth music furnished by the Las Vegas orchestra. Glancing towards chief Neeson's table I noticed that he was playing the affable host to a party of ten. Cliff Prodehl, who took it upon himself to arrange for the dance, was seen relaxing at the completion of his task. We were immensely gratified at the support we received from the N. D. students from this 

area. 
Two of our members received "bundles of joy" among their other gifts over the holidays. Ed "Long-Count" Bailey strengthened his lead in the National Notre Dame Baby Derby on the night of our annual dance, and John Moroney, a late starter in the race, had his second child. 
The club members were happy to welcome back President Walt Ridley to our regular meeting in January, after an absence of four or five months. Walt, who gave up the com­mercial chemistry business for the construction game, was away build­ing a bridge in northern Penn. 
At our Januarj' meeting we were addressed by Father Farley, chaplain of the Eastern Penitentiary. He en­tertained us for two hours with in­teresting facts about the institution and amusing tales about the inmates. He made the gratifying statement that there was not one graduate of a Catholic college among the 2,950 inmates. 
We are looking forwarad to seeing our basketball team breeze into town and bowl over the strong Penn team on Jan. 23. 
Adrian J. Wackerman. 

RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. Robert W. Powers. Jr., ex. '29, 22 Roseland Ave,, Cranston, R.I., President: John R. Jolly, ex. *18, 457 Pawtucket Ave., Paw­tucket, K. I., Secretars". 
ROCHESTER, (New York) Frank Norton, '32, 80 Beckwlth Terrace. President; D. Bernard Hennessy, '34, 119 Bedford St., Secretary. 
* 

ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) Paul J. Fry, "27, 210 W. Third St, Dixon. HI., President: Gerald Jones, '22, 105 E. Second St., Dixon, HI., Secretary. 
* 

SAN ANTONIO 
William V. Diehnann, Jr., '25, 107 Tbelma Drive, President: Edward G. Conroy, '30, 204 E. CraiB PL, Secretary. 
SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) Thomas F. Van Aarle. '21, Standard Oil Co., Sacinaw, Mich., President; WiUiam G. Hor­ley, '25, 117 Cheny St, Sasinaw, Mich., Secretary. 
* 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS Rudolph Kelly, ex. '17. 909 S. Park Ave, President; Paul D. McConncIl, '32, 120 S. Walnut St, Secretary. 
The banquet for the Cathedral 
Boy's High School football team was a huge success. Over 200 were in attendance. Bill Shakespeare was the principal speaker and the boys kept Bill busy by asking questions and by requesting autographs. Notre Dame was represented by approximately 35 alumni. Monogram men were: 
Chuck Corcoran, Butch Whipple and Kirt Schaeffer. 
Bill Bembrock, '35, has obtained a three month leave of absence from his duties with the State, and is plan­ning a tour of the U. S. and possibly a lasit to Honolulu. 
Frank Branson, and Mike Kinney are attending Lincoln College of Law nights, while busying themselves in various political capacities during the day. Both ai'e State employees. 
The monthly noon luncheons are well attended and are much in favor among the fellows. 
We anticipate more activity from now on. Paul D. McConnell. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Louis F. Buckley, '28, 718 B. Corby Blvd., South Bend, Ind., President; Clarence Hard­insr, '25, South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Ind., Secretary. 
ST. LOUIS 
Dr. Matthew W. Weis. ex. '23. 330 Metro­politan BldK.. President: David J. Rielley, Jr., '30, 718 Locust. Secretary. 
On Monday, Januarj' 4, the St. Louis Club held a meeting at the Centuiy Boat Club. The club had the privilege of seeing some of the shots of the Army, Southern California and Northwestern games of 1936 and of hearing Bill Cerney talk on the past football season. 
Father Ryan, of St. Louis Univer­sity, praised the alumni effort in the direction of stamping out Commun­ism. Dr. R. E, Kane, physician and Notre Dame supporter, gave us his impressions on his visit to Notre Dame to see the Northwestern game. 
The following are the new officers of the club: 
President: Dr. Matt Weis, Metro­politan BIdg., St. Louis 
Vice-President: Vince Fehlig, 1909 Washington St., St. Louis. 
Treasurer: J. Carroll Pinkley, In­dustrial Department, First National Bank, St. Louis (re-elected). 
Secretary: D. J. Rielley, Jr., 718 Locust, St. Louis (re-elected). 
A vote of thanksgiving was given the retiring officers. Bob Hellrung and Fred Switzer, for their splendid work in re-organizing the club. 
D. J. Rielley. 

SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
Harry J. Corcoran, '27, 82 Port WataoD St, Cortland. N. Y., President; Donald J. ghee­hy, 'S3, 104 Glahn Ave., Syracnse, Seeietary. 
TIFFIN. OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt 'II. Z60 Hebnore St; Presi­dent; Fred J. Wagner, *29, 152 Sycamore St, Secretary. 

* TOLEDO Ncrbert Scharf, '26, Toledo Edison Co.. President; Joseph L. Wetli, '31, 717 SUrr 
- Ave., Secretary. 
* 

TRI-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) 
Georse Uhlmeyer, *23, Peoples' Lieht Co., Moline, m.. President; Elmer W. Besten, 
•27, 1711 W. Sixth St, Davenport. Iowa, Secretary-

The Notre Dame club in the Tri-Cities had an extra special session 
"on Saturday, January 2, at Honor­able Joe Whalen's Fort Armstrong Hotel. This being a Saturday ses­sion, it was possible for us all to enjoy the fine cuisine to be found in the Fort Armstrong grill room. The meeting was in the nature of a get-together, and was very much of an impromptu one held especially for the purpose of getting all of the members, visitors, and present stu­dents into a group so as to give each of us a chance to bid the other the best of the season's greetings. 
Even in the face of the fact that such a very short notice of two days was given, the turn-out was very gratifying, and if you could have seen our president, George Uhlmeyer, you would have known that he was both entirely and completely satisfied with the attendance. There were 20 in attendance, which included Joe Toussaint, '32, and '35, a visitor from Chicago, and Steve Miller, father of Steve Miller, last year's fullback. 
Also a member of note who was present was Francis King, '19, state's attorney of Rock Island County, Illi­nois, who was, just recently at the convention of states attorneys held at Chicago, made president of the States Attorneys Association of the state of Illinois. Francis has been having difficulty, because of an abun­dance of work, in getting to our reg­ular monthly luncheon meetings, so that all of us appreciated his finding it possible to be at the holiday meet­ing. 
Joe Kurth, '33, a recently-acquired member, was also in attendance and we would like to advise that Joe has a position as sport's commentator and advertising representative of radio station WHBF of Rock Island. This is one of the stations in the new chain organized by Sam InsuU. Joe is now living at 1102-12th Street, Rock Is­land with his family, which includes, as you probably know, his four months old boy, Jerry. 
Joe Repine, '34, who is a member of our club but who has been work­ing since graduation in social service in Chicago, was home visiting with his parents over the holidays, and at­tended the meeting. 
All those in attendance included George Uhlmeyer, Harry McCullough, 
Leo Herbert, Ed Meagher, Bert Meersman, Jack McDonald, Wales Robinson, Joe Repine, Joe Toussaint, Francis King, Joe Whalen, Elmer Besten, Hayes Murphy, Vance Mur­phy, Steve Miller, Sr., Steve Miller, Jr., Vance Uhlaieyer, Joe Kurth and the writer. 
On Wednesday, December 30, the Alumni Association of St. Joseph's high school of Rock Island, Illinois honored Steve Miller with a dinner, which was held in conjunction with the testimonial dinner of the football team of the high school. Steve was signally honored at such dinner, and Ed Meagher, '21, formerly of Chi­cago but now employed in the legal department of the Royal Neighbors in the Home Office in Rock Island, spoke at such meeting. Report has it that Ed delivered a very fine talk on Notre Dame, results of which will he reflected from the registration of new students from Rock Island. 
Jack McDonald, '35, who for the past year has been working for the Westem Flour Mills, out of the Dav­enport office, was rewarded for his first year's promotion by receiving quite a nice promotion from the com­pany, which promotion carries along with it the usual benefits financially connected with a promotion. We hear that Jack is making quite a mark for himself in the flour busi­ness. 
Dick Swift, '20, returaed Januaiy 5 from six weeks' sojourn in the sun­ny climate of California, whei-e he and his wife and boy, Richard Fran­cis, enjoyed themselves to the fullest. Dick has moving pictures of the Southern California game which the club hopes to enjoy in the near fu­ture, and particularly those shots which will show up the incorrect de­cisions of the officials in the three disputed instances. 
Speaking of the Southern Califor­nia game, it reminds the writer that Steve Miller at the meeting, gave us a description of the Southern Cali­fornia game, and also gave us a short resume of all the games played in the past years, which was very enjoyable to all members present. 
G. W. Vander Vennet. 

TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
Jowph Hunt, BinRhunton, President. Wil-Ham Yeagtr, 'S4. 18 Vine St.. BinEhamton. Secretary. 
* 

TRI-STATE 
F. Wendell Lensine, 'SO, 601 Bayard Park. Eransville, Ind., President; Ralpli P. HcKer, '25, 111 Washinffton Ave,, Apt. D., Evans­ville, Ind., Secretary. 

TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) 
Gerald F. Coaway, '32, David Inc., First Nafl Bk. Bids., St. Paul. Hisn.. President; Joseph R. Seliroeder, '31, 219 Fremont Ave., N.. Minneapolis, Minn., Secretary. 

UTAH 
Kaymond R. Brady, '24, 206 Keams Bids., Salt Lake City, President; Cyril Harbeoke. 
•19, 64 F. St., Salt Lake City, Secretary. 

UTICA, NEW YORK Dr. John F. Kelley, '22, Peoples' Gas ft Electric Bldsr., President; Joseph W. Fallem, '31, 1621 Neilson St . Secretary. 
WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Paul Kennedy, '24, Templeton, Ind., Presi­dent. Emmett Fergiison, '32, Wallace Bids:.. Lafayette, Ind., Secretary. 
* 

WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT 
. John Robinson, '28, 32 Farmington Ave., 
President; James M. Monashan, '27, 44 
Ayer St., Secretary. 

The Waterbury Club %vill meet on Jan. 2-5 to start their program on anti-Communism. On Sunday, Jan. 24, a special story will appear in the Waterbury Republican, in the mag­azine section, giving the whole storj­about the Notre Dame anti-Commun­ism program. President John Robin­son has arranged for a series of broadcasts for a half hour every Sunday evening during Lent over Station WBRY. The speakers will be prominent laymen and priests. 
President Robinson has organized a Study Club in the local K. of C. to study Communism, and the members of the Study Club, with the members of the Notre Dame Club, will give talks before various organizations. 
In being a member of the board of directors of the local Y.M.C.-A.., John has received a singular honor, and, since his appointment, has succeeded in having the board hire two Cath­olic secretaries, probably the first in the United States. He has also se­cured through the board and Bishop McAuliffe, the appointment of a Catholic priest as chaplain to the Catholics at the local Y.M.C.-A.. 
John is co-chairman of the "Round Table of Catholics, Jews and Protes­tants," where he also plans to take up the anti-Communism program. 
WASHINGTON, D. C Thomas S. Markey, '29. Shoreham Bids.. Washington. President; Paul Beretz. '27, 815 18th St , N.W.. Washington. Secretary. 
At a regular monthly meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Washington held the evening of Jan. 15, 60-odd members in attendance enjoyed, among other things, the short talks given by two N. D. men who are in the city in the capacity of congress­men. "These are Representatives Vin­cent (Tubby) Harrington, of lowa, and David Worth Clark, of Idaho. The affair was one of the liveliest and best attended on record. And the forthcoming annual winter dance (formal) of the dub on Feb. 5, next, promises to be a huge success. The dance is to be held at the Broadmoor Silver Room, and the following men comprise the dance committee: 
Robert Boykin, chairman, ex. '29; Robert Strickel, '28; Bernie Lo*h­bough. '29; Dave Lehman, '29; R. E. Zimmerinan, '29; Bob Graham, '26; and R. W. Cavanangh, '36. 
The subject of Communism, in connection with the anti-Communism drive of the national N. D. alumni, was aired thoroughly at the meeting. John O'Neill has been appointed chairman of chis committee, ind plans are under way to discuss the matter, on the night of Jan. 25. Pres­ident Tom Markey will report to you further in this regard. " 
Out-of-town N. D. men present at our last meeting included Vincent Engels and Charles Beretz. 
Paul Beretz. 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Joseph Bach. '26. 5610 Hohart St.. Pitts­burch. President: William Magarrall. '32. 1-139 Franklin Ave.. Wilkinsburg. Secretary. 

Over the week-end of Jan. 15 the gang made a Retreat at St. Paul's Retreat House on the south side of town. Father Gilbert Walter did a splendid job of conducting the Re­treat, while our friend of three pre­vious retreats. Father Donald Nealis, swung the mace on the rowdies as Retreat Master. Nothing, to my mind, could possibly parallel four years at Notre Dame as did those days at the 3Ionastery. The most simple description I can give of both its spiritual value and similarity to undergraduate days at school is to tell you it was a dynamically com­pact Lenten period such as we ex­perienced at N. D.; 40 days of pen­ance in 48 hours. -Aside from this, o" o-jurse, were what we might term at school the "extra spiritual" or "extra curricular" activities. 
The entire environment was sug­gestive of school. The boys beefed a bit and slung plenty of that well known stuff. There was a bell for every summons; single rooms and double rooms; a chapel downstairs; a refectory; lights out; hall restric­tions; campus restrictions; an abun­dance of the atmosphere which we knew so well at the University of Our Lady. 
Then, just as at school, I had to bum a smoke from Bardzil, Joe Clarke, and Jim Corrigan before I hit on Joe Mooney and found he used my brand. 
My face is still sore from using Duke Kinssley'* razor, and I think Rege Lavelle must have made that shaving lotion with a chemical set he got for Christmas. After one whack at it I made my toilet com­plete with Frank Meenan's face powder. 
Nobody brought the kind of mouth wash I like, but Ed Nebel uses the same kind of tooth-paste 1 can af­
136 The Notre Dame Alumnus February, 1937 
ford. On the second morning I thought I saw him grab it off the sink and jam it in his pocket when I came into the washroom.. I knew what that meant. 
Gus Morgan, Jim Corrigan and Carl Zimmerman's bedroom slippers 
fit me like Satch Camera's, SO there 
wasn't a chance to borrow footwear for the middle of the night. 
I coulda used a robe, too, but aft­er looking over the field I thought I better ask Father Donald for one of his old cassocks. I changed my mind and made a towel do. 
Neil Pappert turned me do«-n the second afternoon on a bottle of Lucky Tiger hair tonic he brought along. I think it was starting to do some good, too. 
I got pretty sore at Bemie Con­roy. I caught him looking rather close at my receding temples, but when I sorta felt up there, then took a good look at his, mine only came to about here and his were almost way back to there. Who's he to look at me that way? 
I tried to borrow-a couple of bucks from Eddie O'Brien and his crony, John Donovan, but they both just nodded a solmenly screaming, NO! 
K. T. Meade was a stranger in the group, so when I saw Eddie and John whisper to him and look my way I knew I was cut off for a touch there. 
The first night I only slept a wink. Smokey Coyne's thrilling snore was not so bad till Red Reardon paired off with him in a duet. I think together they composed a little opus in Z flat. 
On the last day of the Retreat Uncle Joe Bach had a birthday. He was given a big three layer cake. Chick, Jack and Morgan Sheedy each baked a layer. Fritz Wilson cooked the icing. Brother Meinert did the artistic touch on top. You know, candy flowers, scrolls, blue birds in flight, Happy Birthday in lemon mer­ingue and all the trimmins. When Turk finished he wanted to bite his initials in his handiwork, but none of that free publicity stuff with us. There weren't any candles on the cake, but since Joe's about 49 now I thought we ought to do it up right with that many red white and blue Roman Candles. 
I might give the needles to those who were "ridiculous" by their ab­sence, but I'm still only a bantam­weight and it might be like trampin' on the end of a rake if I did. 
Bill Magarrall. 
* 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 
John J. Dempsejr, '95. Dempser Lumber Go., Tacoma. President: Bobert I. Pigott, '82, 2603 W. ManninE St . Seattle. Secretary. 
WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA 
Thomas F. Howley, *11. Citizens-Peoples Trust Co., "Wheeling, President; George S«r­sus, '28. 2111 Belmont, Bellsire. Ohio. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Sister Eliiabcth Seton, S.C., St. Mary's Col­lege, Holy Cross, Ind., President: Sister M. Angelice. B.V.M., St. Joseph Convent, Mt Carmel, Dubuque, Iowa, Secretary. 
VOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Monn. *29, 1848 Quinn. Preaident; Charles CushwA, 'SI, 463 Madera Arc, Secretary. 

Chesterton Medal To Be Awarded 
Contestants All Must Submit Essays on Non-Catholic Youth. 
A new scholastic award, the Ches­terton Medal, will be given for excel­lence in the field of Apologetics, it was announced in January by Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C, director of studies. This award is in memory of the late G. K. Chesterton, eminent convert and apologist, whose associa­tion with Notre Dame as a visiting professor and in other ways, is one of the most treasured traditions of the University. 
The Chesterton Medal is to be awarded on the combined results of an examination and an essay. The examination, which will be held early in March, will consist of questions in the field of practical apologetics sim­ilar to the ones that appeared in the Daily Religious Bulletin last Fall. 
The subject of the essay is: "The Approach to Non-Catholic Youth." The essay is to consist of not more than 1500 words. Competitors are expected to do some research among non-Catholic friends, with a view to discovering their attitude toward the Church, and their reaction to argu­ments in favor of the Church. 
Any student, graduate or under­graduate, registered at the Univer­sity in the second semester of 1936­37 is eligible for competition in the contest. Mr. Lunn is giving auto­graphed copies of his books to the student who do the best examination papers in their respective classes, the graduate, the Senior, the Junior, the Sophomore, and the Freshman. 
Corby Hall Now For Priests 
Kitchen and Rec Room Are Added. 
Corby is no more as a student resi­dence hall. 
The one-time home of some of Notre Dame's most noted sons, the scene of some of Notre Dame men's "tallest" stories, is now occupied by priests who are directly associated with the operation of the University. Quarters are provided for 35 men. The entire structure is divided into suites and modernized in every detail. 
A two-story addition to the rear of Corby Hall provides a large dining hall for the priests who reside there and for some of the Brothers, as well as a spacious recreation room. The former "subway" provides space for the kitchen and for the employes who operate the kitchen and the dining room. The dining hall and the kitch­en are under the supervision of E. F. Connolly, manager of the student Dining Hall. 
Corby was re-made by the Solitt Construction, Inc., of South Bend, with the aid of Maginnis cS; Walsh, architects, of Boston. 
The Community members who are rectors and prefects in the various student residence halls continue to eat in the main Dining Hall. 
KEy MEETING 
(Continued from Page 113) 
recognition of the need for combat­ting alien teaching. It advocates, even for our own Clubs, adapting the Club program to local needs. 
Material of an informative nature is being assembled as circumstances permit at Notre Dame and will be sent from time to time to the Clubs 

, or to chairmen of committees, ap­pointed in the Clubs. 
There are already enough cases reported of action by our alumni to show that the program is needed, that it is possible for our association to conduct, and that it is effective. 

President Louis Buckley of the St. Joseph Valley Club appointed Robert 
B. Riordan, '24, registrar of the Uni­versity, general chairman of the event. Francis Jones, '29, chairman of the board of directors of the club, acted as chairman of a committee of local alumni enlisting the coordina­tion of other groups in the St. Joseph Valley interested in the anti-subver­sive movement. 
February, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
»
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Elizabeth Noll and Norbert 

C. Berghoff, ex. '29. Miss Helene Marjorie Herr and 
Charles E. Patterson, ex. '35. Miss Dorothy Helen Banks and 
Norman D. Shambleau, ex. '37. 
Marriages 
Miss Mary Margaret Burke and Robert E. O'Hara, '20, were married Dec. 29, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, by Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., brother of the bridegroom. 
Miss Catherine Clare and Thomas Lantry, '30, were married Jan. 2, in New York City. 
Thomas Medland, '30, was married last' Nov. 21, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Ellen Eccles and Ronald J. McEachen, '31, were married in De­cember, in Ligonier, Mich. 
Miss Dorothy Dinwoodie and Nor­bert J. Christman, '32, were married Dec. 29, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Marian Gertrude Henderson and Theodore S. Halpin, '32, were married Jan. 16, in Chicago. 
Miss "Louise Robin Stratton and Clayton S. Duerr, '32, were married Dec. 15, in Benton Harbor, Mich. 

Miss Marguerite Maria Jones and John C. Cole, '32, were married Jan. 16, in Fort Scott, Kans. 
Miss Regina C. Hudson and J. Regis Kuhn, '32, were married Nov. 26, in Holy Family Church, Latrobe, Pa. 
Miss Esther R. Stoeckinger and Loren J. Hess, '33, were married Jan. 12, in St. Joseph's Church, Misha­-waka. 
Miss Stephanie A. Sazovsky and John J. Roche, '34, were married Jan. 14, in St. Mary's Church, An­thony, Rhode Island. 
Miss Mary Lenore Walsh and Paul Fergus, '35, were married Jan. 23, in St. Patrick's Church, South Bend. 
Miss Mary Patricia Walsh and George Lawton, ex. '35, were mar­ried Jan. 1, in Minneapolis. 

Miss Marjorie Clara Young and Thomas C. Stringer, '35, w^ere mar­ried Sept. 5, in St. Stephen's Church, Port Huron, Mich. 
Miss Mary CuUinane, and John E. Kennedy, '36, were married in De­cember, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Dorothy Jeanne Kreitner and Dennis John Hickey, '36, were mar­ried Nov. 26, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur F. Cline, '32, announce the birth of a son, Terry Arthur, Dec. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Land, '34, an­nounce the birth of a son, John Rob­ert, Nov. 22. 
Mr. aiid Mrs. Ralph E. Rogers, '34, announce the birth of a son, Ralph Daniel, Dec. 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jon Beljon, '30, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Joan Marie, Jan. 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. E. Bradley Bailey, ex. '23, announce the birth of a son, on Dec. 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Regan, '33, announce the birth of a son, Charles Daniel. 
Deaths 
Dr. James J. Lynch, B.S., '15, 42 years old, died on Jan. 9 in his home in Brighton, Massachusetts, after a short illness. He is survived by his wife and three sons. 
-A native of Des Moines, Iowa, Dr. Lynch was graduated from the Har­vard Medical School after his course at Notre Dame. He had served in va­rious hospitals in Greater Boston and at the time of his death was a mem­ber of the staff of St. Anthony's hos­pital. He was also school physician of the Roxbury district. 
Dave Rielley, secretary of the St. Louis club, sent %vord of the death recently of Paul O. Beeson, '08, of St. Louis. Mr. Beeson was manager of the asbestos and cement division of the Ruberoid Co. He had former­ly resided in Joliet, Illinois. 
Gerry Ashe notified the .A.LUMNUS 

of the death of Charles Foley, '22, 
He wrote: 
"Very sad news comes out of Ore­gon. A brilliant young lawyer, Charles 'Chuck' Foley on the thresh-hold of a most promising career died of cancer in his native home of Burns, Oregon, on Jan. 7. 
"At N. D., Chuck was an excellent student, but always found time for sports of all kinds. He loved life and his actions always reflected its brighter side. 
"Yes, Chuck is gone, God rest his soul, yet I do believe whenever men of '22 visit N. D. they will still see Chuck walking across the campus ar­rayed in blue flannel shirt, corduroy trousers, grey checkered cap, and be­tween puffs from his little black pipe, firing bits of wit and wisdom at Ive Sharp, Johnny Murphy, Hirschbuhl, and the world in general." (More information in '22 class news) 
Father John B. Regan, '24, sent from Great Falls, Montanaa, the sad, yet inspiring, news of the death of James B. Sherlock, ex. '11, of Great Falls. He wrote: 
"You no doubt heard of the death of J. B. Sherlock, one of the most loyal Notre Dame alumni, I ever had the privilege of meeting. Mr. Sher­lock attended Notre Dame in the days when Father O'Hara was a stu­dent and he was one of the group that organized the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus. 
"His death came as a shock to this community. Last Sunday he and his wife attended Mass and received Holy Communion—a practice which he has carried out every week since his student days. Sunday afternoon he was rushed to Columbus hospital sufTering with a ruptured appendix. -After the operation his condition be­came worse and he died Wednesday noon, conscious quite to the last. Just before he died, he asked for the last blessing and in the spirit of com­plete resignation passed to his re­ward. 
"We of Great Falls -vvill miss 'J. B.'" 
From All Saints Convent, in Bal­timore, comes word of the recent death of Sister M. Davidica, '35, of the Sisters of St. Joseph. 
The sympathy of the Alumni Asso­ciation is extended to Warren Schwantes, '33, upon the death of his father; to David Saxon, '2d, and Malcolm Saxon, '36, upon the death of their father; to Mr. and Mrs. Gerald B. Linn, '32, upon the death of their daughter; to Earle C Hur­ley, '24, and James Hurley, '24, upon the death of their father; to Hugh 
A. O'Donnell, '94, upon the death of his brother. 
Personals 
Befor e 188 0 Seaetary: Holl.T.H.<3aI­
IflSn-lttflS ' Seeretvy: Pmf. Sofeert M. 
aoow-mw w A„a,„on_ Clrdetille. Ohio. 
1886 Secretary: Michael O. Burns, S38 S. Second St., Hamilton, Ohio. The secretaiy of the class, Mich­ael O. Bums, of Hamilton, Ohio will soon be Judge Bums. He will, on Feb. 4, assume his new duties as judge of the common pleas court in Butler County, Ohio. Mr. Bums was extremely active and effective in promoting the banquet at which the Notre Dame Club of Hamilton hon­ored Bob Wilke on Dec. 30. 
* 

1887-1888 Secretary: J. L. Heincman, Conner5\'illc, Indiana. 
1887 GOLDEN ANNIVERSARy RE-UNION June 4, 5, 6 

1889 Secretary: P. E. Burke, 301 Camp 
New Orleans, Louisiana. 

1890-1893 Secretary: Louis P. Chute. 7 
Univ. Av., Minneapolis, Minn. 

Somewhat belatedly word comes to the class secretaiy as to the death of Edward RolUnd Adelsperger, who received the degi-ee of bachelor of arts in the class of '90, and later, 1908, that of bachelor of architec­ture. 
"Roily," as he was known to the boys of the earlier days, departed this life on Nov. 30 last, according to advices recently received from his sister from Chicago. 
It appears that he was subjected to something more than his fair share of responsibilities and tribula­tion, for which it is assumed that his college companions would wish to ex­press regret as well as sympathy for his family in their loss. 
If the class secretaiy could be no­tified of all such events, and events generally of concern to the class members, it would serve the purpose of more frequent news matter, and give opportunity for checking up on membership. 
Louis P. Chute. 

1894 Secretary: Hugh A. O'DonnclI, 1 W. 
67th St., New York City. Hugh O'Donnell reports a mem­able afternoon in New York with Dr. Elmer A. Scherrer, of Denver. The two of them had not seen each other since they were graduated together. Hugh writes: "You can imagine how it warmed the cockles of my heart to see this lad, whom I was fond of as a boy, for the first time since then. He has attained success, has children and grandchildren and was on the way to Indianapolis to spend the holidays with his prodigy." 
Otherwise, Hugh's holiday season was sad. His brother Tom, an at­torney in Chicago, died from heart disease. Hugh flew out to Chicago for the funeral and the burial in the family plot in Bloomington, 111. 
1895 Secretary: Eustace Cullinan, Sr., 860 Phclan BIdir., San Francisco, Calif. 
189S Secretary: William P. Bumi, 327 Willard Ave.. Michigan City, Indiana. 
189T Secretary: Rev. J. A. MacKamara. St. Jos. Sanitarium. Mt, Clemens, Mich. 
Father MacNamara has sent let­ters to all the members of the class, inriting them back to the 40th anni­versary and Commencement in June. Father has had some difficulty, as has the Alumni Office in locating some of the members. He writes: "Have you the address of Thomas Burke Reilly, of New York? I wrote Paul Ragen at JMaumee, Ohio. He vi-as there last year and I think he visited at Notre Dame about a year ago. Ralph Palmer was in McLean, Va., the last I heard. I wTote there and received no response, but my letter was not returned. 
"I had a letter from Hunter Ben­nett of Weston, West Virginia. He is to spend the next five months with his family at 1547 Brichell Avenue, Miami, Florida. As he is to remain there until June, he is doubtful of being able to get back to the re­union. He would be glad to hear from any of his old college mates from '92 to '97. 
Has anyone had trace of Horace Wilson, of Minnesota, who was in the law school in '95 to '97? 
"I had a Christmas card from Joe Naughton, of New York, who was at school from '95 to '98, and was a star in the basketball team with Father Tom Steiner. 
"Hope to have more replies soon." 
* 

1898 Secretary: William 0. Kesler, SOi £ Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 
1899 Secretary: Br. Joseph F. Duane, 418 Jefferson Blvd., Peoria, HI. 
1900 
1901 Secretary: Joseph J. Sullivan, 1300, 139 N. Oark St., ChlcaBO. Hi. 
1902 Secretary: C. C. MiUhell, 110 S. Dearborn St., Box 3, Chicaffo, ID. 
1903 Secretary: Francis P. Burke, 90* 
Trust Co. Bide Milwaukee, Wis. 

1904 Secretary: Robert Proctor, Hon^r Bid?., Elkhart. Indiana. John I. O'Phelan, of Eaymond, Washington, long a prominent mem­ber of the Washington bar, was re­cently sivom in as judge of the Su­perior court for Pacific and Wahk­iakum counties. Mr. O'Phelan is a former state deputy of the Knights of Columbus in Washington. 
1905 Secretary: Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, ID. 
igOg Secretary: Thomas A. Lally, 811-13' Paulsen Bids:., Spokane, Wash. The campus radio maestro. Father Eugene Burke, recently told the ra­dio audience of WJJD, Chicago, about Notre Dame campus activities and, particularly, about the Notre Dame Dining Hall. 
• 

1907 Secretary: Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ihcl. Rev. Wendell Corcoran, C.S.C, has been for the last few years pas­tor of Christ the King Church in Roseland, a few miles north of the Universit}'. He is, in fact, the first pastor of the parish, having built the Church and the parish house, both of which are simple but very artistic. This year he had an outdoor crib erected during the Christmas season which drew Wsitors from all over the state. -4s many as 10,000 people visited the crib in one day during the Christmas holidays. 
1908 Secretary: Frank X. Cull, Bulkley Buildins, Cleveland, Ohio. 
1909 Secretary: E. P. Qeary, Notre Dame. Indiana. 
1910 Secretary: Rev. H. L. Moriarty. 1900 Euclid Ave.. Qeveland, Ohio. Robert Lee Matthews is the new football coach at the Universitj' of Portland in Oregon, formerly Colum­bia, according to the announcement of Rev. Oscar Hentges, C.S.C., chair­man of the athletic board. George Philbrook, track coach and football line coach for the University, was appointed director of athletics at the same time. 
When he got back to Cleveland after the Nieuwland exercises and the football banquet. Father Moriar­ity wrote as follows: 
Christmas greetings came to me from Red Miller, who is now located in Wilmington, Delaware. It was a pleasure to hear from Otto Hannon from Gary, Indiana. I had decided to check with the income department of the government to learn some­thing of the whereabouts of Dr. Roth, Bill Schmidt, Sam Dolan and then on through the list. 
Meanwhile I am continuing my Cleveland program until I can study the 1937 model of the C.C.C. camps. 
igil Secretary: Fred Steen, 1666 First National Bank Bids., Chicaeo, in. Father Tom Lahey, C.S.C, with Father George Marr, C.S.C., '01, left the campus in early January to at­tend the Eucharistic Congress in Ma­nila in February. After the Congress, the two priests will continue their trip around the world, stopping in India, the Holy Land and Rome, among other places. 
Father John Ryan, C.S.C., '06, has 
assumed Father Marr's rectorship of Walsh Hall and Paul Martin, '09, is teaching Father Lahey's advertising classes. 
Father Charles Miltner, C.S.C, is a member of the board of associate editors of The Neiv Scholasticism, a quarterly published by the American Catholic Philosophical Association. The announcement was made follow­ing the association's biennial meeting in Chicago within the holidays. 
1912 Secretary: B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St. PittstarBh. Pa. 
1912 SILVER ANNIVERSARY RE-UNION June 4, 5, 6 

In promoting its silver anniversary reunion the class of 1912 is out in search of the present addresses of 18 members of the class who are re­ported as missing. Will any one, of this class or any other, who knows the whereabouts of one or more of the lost, notify B. H. Kaiser, class secretary? The missing are: 
Ja%es W. Burke, Jose Bracho, Leo 

J. Cleary, Patrick H. Cunning, En­rique Cortazer, John F. Daily, Wil­liam A. Fish, Carlos A. Gonzales, Joseph ,M. Huerkamp, Albert H. Keys, Joseph A. Martin, Francis B. McBride, Robert J. McGill, John P. McSweeney, Walter J. Maguire, Guillermo Patterson, Charles J. Rob­inson and Frederick J. Stewart. 
Fifty-four members of the class are on the active list, ten are dead. 
Ben Kaiser wrote on Januarj' 19, as follows: 
To date I have received 13 replies to my recent letter to the class. Eleven promise definitely to be pres­ent at the anniversarj' next June and two will try to be there. The follow­ing are in the first division: 
Edward M. Bruce, Walter Duncan, Dr. J. A. Flynn, Jay L. Lee, Joseph 
B. McGlynn, Donnelly P. McDonald, F, L. Mendez, John P. Murphy, Judge J. Elircr Peak, Phillip J. Phillip, Ed H. Savord. 
The following will try to be there: Leo J. Condon, Rev. £. J. Howard. 
I am going East tonight and will return to Pittsburgh Mondauy morn­ing. I am sure that I will find many pledges upon my return. From these 1 believe a committee should be chosen. 
I intend to snap into this job now and keep it stirred up continuously until it is over. 
Jgl3 Secretary: James 3. Devitt. 921 En­gineers' Bldff.. Cleveland. Ohio. 
J9^4 Secretary: Frank R. Hayes, 406 Banlc of America Bid?.. Anaheim, CaL 
Frank Hayes sends a note with this interesting dope: "Just a short note to tell you that the '14 men who were present at the Notre Dame-So. Cal. game were five in number and all met at the Stag at the Biltmore Friday night before the game. They were: Twomey Clifford, Los -Angeles; Frank Canning, Oxnard, Calif.; Bill Cusack, Los -A.ngeles; John L. Hood, Boise, Idaho, and yours truly from El Cajon, Calif. We had a great 'gab fest' about all our classmates and about the N. D. of our day and the present N. D." 
1915 Secretary: James E. Sanford, 1524 Farwcll Aye.. Chicaso. 111. 
* 

1916 Secretary; Timothy P. GslTin, First Trust Bid?., Hammond. Ind. 
* 

1917 Secretary: Edward J. McOaker, 104 
S. Union St. Elgin. HI. Bemie Voll is the new first vice-president of the South Bend -Associa­tion of Commerce and Max Adler is the new second vice-president. Geo. O'Brien and Joe Donahue, together with Bemie and Mr. .A.dler, are 
among the members of the executive committee of the -Association. 
J92 S Secretary: John A. Lemmer, 1110— 8th Ave.. S.. Escanaba. Mich. Deljnar Edmondson, noted in the Notre Dame annals for his sponsor­ship of the Juggler, is gaining in­creasing radio fame for his handling of "Magazine of the Air," a feature on the Columbia Broadcasting sytem. -A. recent picture shows liim inter­viewing on the air Dorothy Canfield Fisher, the author. 
* 

291^0 Secretary: Qarence Bader, 6S0 Fierce Street Gary, Indiana. 
* 

1920 Secretary: Leo B. Ward. 1012 Black " Bide,. Los Anceles. Calif. 
1921 Secretary: Dan W. Duffy. 1600 Term­inal Tower. Geveland, Ohio. 
Here is a most generous contribu­tion from Dan Duffy: 
Jim Coyle of our class is still single, is principal of Caswell School, Taunton, Mass. -At a school appre­ciation night recently held, a good many of Notre Dame men went out to help Jim celebrate his great w-ork achieved. 
In a letter from Bill Allen, 854 Boal Parkway, he tells of the birth of his third son. He would like very much to hear from Dave Hayes and Archie Duncan. 
Henry William Fritz writes that he is now the village attorney of Niles, Illinois, and practicing law in Chicago. 
From New Jersey comes news of Archie Duncan, now with the Atlan­tic Lumber Company and living at 154 Coeyman Avenue, Nutley, New Jersey. There is now a little Archie in the Duncan household. 

The usual loquacious Mr. Foley, William by first name, is again a Hoosier located at 722 Electric Building, Indianapolis, Indiana, man­aging the First Bancredit Corpora­tion, after several years with finance companies in New York and Chicago. Will is married and has two boys, ages three and one. 
From Gerald J. Craugh comes word that he is still with the law firm of Breed Abbott & Morgan, 15 Broad Street, New York City. I be­lieve Gerald has been with them since we got out of school. Gerald is married, has two boys, the oldest be­ing five years. 
From Gerald J. Cleary in Escan­aba, Mich., comes the following: "Yes, I am married—have four boys, all Democrats—they are bom that way — Tubby Ryan, John Lemmer, Frank Aley, are all fine— Jim Stew­art is in Eseanaba quite often—The oil business is fine, thanks to the New Deal—Richard B. SUck, is on the City Commission—^That's about all the news. Best regards." Knowing the great klondike as we all do, that is quite a letter from him. 
From the little trackster, Stanley Insley, 1302 Maccabee Building, De­troit, Michigan, comes word that his avocation is public health and public medical relief programs. He is a member of State Welfare and Relief Study Commission, chairman of the Wayne County Public Health Com­mittee and also chairman of the Michigan State Relief Medicine Com­mittee. He is also a member of the faculty of medicine at Wayne Uni­versity. Mr. and Mrs. Insley have four children, two oldest being girls and two youngest are prospective Notre Damers. 
From L. V. Gorrilla, comes work that he is practicing medicine in St. Louis with ofBces in the Dickmann Building. Vincent is married, one child—^Peggy, 2% years old. 
When it comes to taking jumps, Harold Foley takes the prize. Prom the Brooks Scanlon Corporation plant in Foley, Florida, he went to the office of the same company in Vancouver, B.C. He has been in Vancouver since the middle of Aug­ust. He has two children. 
Cy Kasper is now the United States collector of internal revenue, -Aberdeen, South Dakota, with offices at Aberdeen. Cy is married and has two boys, nine and five. I might add that I saw him at the Northwestern game and the 15 years out of school have added only about three years to his appearance. He looks today like a pretty fair half miler. 
192 2 SecnUir: Gerald Athe, Buthlo Ath­letic Clab, BnSalo, New Tork. 
Justin Hyland, of Pen Yan, New-York, visited the campus on Dec. 28. He was in South Bend for the holi­days. 

If you saw, or heard of, a worth­less check signed by James R. Mc­Cabe, don't jump to the conclusion that it was Jim, of South Bend. It wasn't. Jim's car, containing some of his best credentials, was stolen not long ago. Soon after, police in all parts of the country began to ask for his arrest on the charge of pass­ing worthless checks. Eventually, the law caught up with the crook and now Jim is breathing regularly again. 
Father James Fogarty, C.S.C., of the Economics faculty in the Uni­versity, recently.addressed 200 dele­gates to a meeting of the South Bend deanery of the National Council of Catholic Women on the subject "Communism and Simple Economic -Arithmetic." 
Kid Ashe comes through nobly with this: 
From Portland, Oregon, Charlie Hirschbuhl, president of the Monarch Forge & Machine Works, writes as follows: 
"It is too bad the letter I have intended to write to you for so long should contain the sad news of Chuck Foley's death. He passed away in Bums last Thursday and was buried there yesterday. He had been failing since last September and it was dis­covered tbout a month ago that he was afflicted with cancer. He leaves his wife and young son, his mother and three sisters. It is indeed a shame that he had to be taken, as he was getting along famously in his practice of law and was just on the verge of stepping into big things. Within a few years I know we would have been pointing him out with a great deal of pride as a classmate who had really gone places. 
"Clete Lynch comes through Port­land about three times a year now, and, of course, is always loaded with news of the deeds and misdeeds of our old bunch. It was good to get your letter some time ago relating to all the changes that have taken place at school, and I am living in high hopes of getting back there either this Spring or Fall. 
"I would like to hear from you again with pertinent news concern­ing Jack Higgins, Ralph Coryn, George Shuster, and Gus Desch. I have been out of touch with them for a long time and would appreciate their addresses, if you have them." 
Two prominent doctors, who stud­ied pre-medics at N. D. as members of our class, were on hand for the Ohio State game last Fall, if you will accept this belated report. Dr. John Kelley, of Utica, already is highly regarded in central New York as an eye, ear, nose and throat specialist. Doctor Matt Weis, of St. Louis, spe­cialist in maternity cases, is doing verj' well in the Missouri metropolis. 
Vine Hanrahan has been in Guate­mala for the past few years engaged in survey work in connection with boundary disputes between Guate­mala and the countries of Honduras and Salvador. Just recently he vis­ited his home in Buffalo on a short leave of absence. Vine has a little son who speaks only Spanish. Papa Hanrahan came north by plane, but he is returning via motor to New Orleans and boat beyond. 
Premier football coaching honors of the '22 Association of Coaches go to Buck Shaw of Santa Clara. Buck topped off a splendid' season by de­feating L. S. U. in the post season Sugar Bowl classic at New Orleans. Buck is extremely modest and like­able. We rejoice in his success. 
Edgar Raub is general manager of the Falls Hollow Staybolt Co. of Akron, 0. 
Here is a crisp note from Frankie Blasius, dated Jan. 11: 
"Don't pass out too quickly. Just one of those forgotten men who still exists even though he forgets to mention the fact very often. 
Shortly. . . sweetly this morning .. . do we have another reunion of our class scheduled for next June? Recalling the Dix reunion plan for reunions ever}' five years. .. . I thought that it might be in order for us to shake hands again in June. 
"Drop me a note if you have any information." 
Frank is located in Logan, Ohio, and he is efficiently carrying on a splendid merchant tailoring business. 
Walt KUuer (Swiss movement) is taking an active part in the man­agement and operation of the Klauer Manufacturing Co., Dubuque, Iowa. 
* 

192 3 Secretary: Vaui Castner. 107 North Eddy Street. South Bend. Ind. 
192 4 Secretatr: J. F. Hayes, Wm. F. Ped­rick * Co.. Emp. State Bids., N.Y.C. 
Writing to convey the greetings of the holiday season, John Duffy, of Dubuque, Iowa, tells that he had just begun his second term as county.at­torney in Dubuque County. Ed Tschudi, '23, is assistant county at­torney. Patrick J. Nelson, '88, is the district court judge. 
After seven yeai-s as a missionary in India, the popular Father Joe Rick, C.S.C., is spending a vacation on the campus and in other parts of the U. S. He will return to India in February. An experienced air­plane pilot. Father Rick was licensed to fly in 1929. In the Indian county in which he serves, 150 miles long and 125 miles wide, only 40 persons out of seven million are white. 
192 5 Seeretaqr: Joim W. Seallan, 79 E. Adams St, Cbicaso, HI. 
Bill Voor and Bill Jackson, with 

Bob Grant, '28, have just formed a new law partnership in South Bend. Bob retired on Jan. 1 as deputy pros­ecutor of St. Joseph County. 
192 6 S«»^tary: Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, 86 Hawthorne Ave., East Orange, N.J. 
Irving Hurwicb, city attorney of Mishawaka, is the first president of the newly-organized Kiwanis club in that city. 
Mr. and Mrs. Gerry Smith, of Rochester, New York, were at the University on Jan. 6, enroute home from a Christmas in Joplin, Mo. 
192 7 Secretary: Edmund Beaerq. 8118 Ellis Ave., Ghicaeo, HI. 
Ab Henry is the new probate com­missioner in the superior court of Hammond, Ind. -A.b was recently probate commissioner in the circuit court of the county. 
Walter (Red) Smith is now an ex­ceedingly popular sports writer and sports columnist on the Philadelphia Record, following his years of suc­cessful service on the sports staff of the St. Louis Star-Times. Red accom­panied the Villanova football team, with Coaches Clipper Smith and Vince McNally, to Havana for that Bowl game (the Sauer Kraut Bowl, or whichever one it was) on New Year's Day. Upon his return, the onetime demon of the Dome yrcote an ecstatic memorial to the qualities of the daiquiri cocktail. Mr. Smith and Mr. McNally, he said, drank pineapple juice. 
192 8 Secretary: Louis Bueldey. 718 E. Corby St.. South Bend. Ind. 
George Scfaeuer, after many years of fine accomplishment on the South Bend News-Times, has gone the way of most Neios -Times flesh and settled down in Detroit. He has joined the Associated Press staff there. George is working there with Ray Keiser, '26, according to the dope of George Ludwig, '25, who was on. the campus for the Nieuw­land exercises. 
Dr. William J. McGee is now in Haxton, North Dakota, according to recent word. 
And that vagrant advertising man. Jack Mullen, has moved again. You can reach him now in care of the National Broadcasting Co. in San Francisco. He's still with the adver­tising firm of Benton & Bowles. Los Angeles was the last stop. 
Bill Kreig has been admitted to partnership in the law firm of Jones, Hammond, Buschmann and Gardner in Indianapolis. 
1929 Ss'^^etarr: Joseph F. McMaman. 231 Wisconsin Street, Indianapolis. Ind. 
J93Q Secretary: Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth SL. New RensinEton. Pa. 
Jerry Parker has just been re­elected executive secretary of the Centre Club at 120 Central Park South in New York City, an organ­ization of 1,000 Catholic college graduates. John Balfe, '20, is treas­urer of the club. 
Bemie Conroy writes: 

A nice crowd of Alumni turned out to see George Keogan's boys perform in Pittsburgh last night. However, the evening was spoiled by Pitt's unexpected victory. 
A number of out of towners were on hand, including Andy Sleigh, Paul Crowe, Gene Edwards, and Jim Leonard and his recent bride. 
Bill Steitz had a great time at the Northwestern game, with John Con-Hn and Clayton Woodruff. 
Tom Litzwan is now connected with an engineering firm at 101 Park Avenue, New York City. 
William H. H. Ginder, Jr., is do­ing well in the Metallurgical depart­ment of the Camegie-niinois Steel Companay. His offices are located in the Carnegie Building, Pittsburgh, and he reports one son, William H. 
H. Ginder, HI, bom on Sept. 29, 1931. 
Tom Cunningham writes from a sick bed (rheumatic fever) and re­quests some news about his old swimming mate, Harold Shumate, and the Council Bluff's pride, Bob Tinley, of the class of *31. 
Dr. Dick O'Toole has returned to Pittsburgh from Cleveland and has taken a position at the Roselia Foundling Home. 
Hughie Gallagher, who is working in Harrisburg, was home for the an­nual New Year's Ball. Hughie, Harry Francis, George Hewson, and some others are planning a get together at the Penn basketball game. 
1931 S"="t'>ry: John Bersan, 828 E. Col­fax Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
You r able secretary crashes through beautifully with this: 
1937 promises to be a great year for correspondence for the class, so here goes the initial information. Austin Boyle has recently been ap­pointed on the New Orleans staff of the Associated Press. Our con­gratulations to him on his promotion. Scrivener Balfe of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, had quite a time during the holidays keeping tab of Daytona Beach's woman mayor and kept the country advised of her stand in Gov­ernor Sholz's attempt to oust her. 
Dan Hatpin was a very busy man at the coaches meeting in New York the latter part of December adver­tising his Packard Electro-razor to that illustrious body. Dan is vice-president of the Dictograph com­pany, distributors of that product. Roy Bailie is still with the Fisk Tire sales organization in Boston and ad­vises that his family is coming right along. 
Art McIVIammnon is also in Bos­ton, an executive in a Hub city ad­vertising agency. Art Bergen divides most of his time between his law and used car business in the Bronx, New-York and promises to be in South Bend soon on a so-called business trip. 
John Dorschel received a very nice bonus for meritorious service in the collection department of the Roch­ester branch of the -Associates Dis­count Co. Had a Christmas card from Ward O'Connor, but he did not state much about himself. He is still in Bayonne. Frank Carideo was in Mi­ami on New Year's, assisting Major Sasse in directing the Mississippi State football team in its game in the Orange Bowl. Frank Lahey was host to Denny Shay who is assistant coach at Bowdoin, John O'Brien and Larry Mullins during the Football Coaches meeting, at his home in New York. He with a rubber company during the winter months. 
Joe Dunne is practicing law in EI Paso and has recently received a political appointment from the Dem­ocratic party. Louie Godoy sent a New Year's card from Havana and reports that business is going good. 
The Rev. James Young, C.S.C., has I'ecently been appointed director of the famous Moreau Seminary choir at Notre Dame and is doing an un­usual job of developing the voices of the various members. Clark Bek­endorf has finished his intemeship and is now practicing medicine in Chicago. Bemie Thompson's floral business is expanding in Chicago, he having recently opened his third store on the South Side. 
Oliver Field has retained his job as claim supervisor in the Illinois state department of insurance under the Horner administration. Bob Smith is still with the International Harvester Co. in Chicago. Among the members of the class at the Notre Dame-So. Cal. game were: Tom Ashe, Charlie Gordon from Glendale; Ed Sheeran who is with the Local Loan; Moon Mullins from Atchison, Kansas; Joe Guadnola, Terry Dillon, Paul Gushing and Matt Cullinan down from Frisco. Ed Me-hem was also over from Phoenix. 
Saw Phil Airey a Couple of times this winter and he is in charge of an interesting crew of the American Investigation Co. They visit stores throughout the Middle West checking up on the clerical help. 
The secretary has received a num­ber of letter from various Chicago 
, members of the class proposing a re­union dinner to be held there some­time this Spring in one of the hotels, for the class in the vicinity of Chi­cago. It is a great idea and any sug­gestions as to time and place will be greatly accepted. The affaic would be a welcome one. 
Fred Rahaim's Jacksonville High school football team was declared one of the most outstanding teams in the state. Ted Lee is still in the ac­counting department of the A. & P. Stores in Altoona, Pa., John Sheehan is recovering nicely from a critical operation performed at University hospital, Ann Arbor. 
Johnny Kuhn is now with the New York state tax department and is one of the favored few thousand sport­ing a low license number this year. He would enjoy hearing from any of the old gang and promises an early reply. 
Leo Kletzley, of the West Virginia Kletzleys, is in the sales department of the Interstate Glass Company in Wheeling. Marty Wider is still in Detroit, with the General Electric Company, and greatiy misses his old pals, Walsh and Ruppe. Bob Rnppe, by the way, is living in Edwardsburg, Michigan and is kept quite busy with Robert, Jr. 
See Jack Williams occasionally on his trips into town from Fort Wayne. He is practicing law. Charlie Weisa was recently appointed recreation supervisor of the WPA in South Bend. 
Billy Sullivan is putting in a busy winter assisting his brother Joe in his law practice and bids to have liis greatest year with the Cleveland In­dians in 1937. 
Seymour Gross and Max PascoK are operating the Ideal Coal Co., on Chicago's South Side. Kenny Tohulka is now in Hook's Drug Store in South Bend. Tony Schriener was the big receptionist when Notre Dame played Kentuclcy in Louisville, early in the year. He is in the accounting department of the Frankfort Distil­leries. Ed Murray is talking with a Tennessee accent now^ following his holiday trip to his wife's home in Jackson, Tenn. He is assistant to the comptroller of the University. Frank NoH is practicing law in Indianapolis. 
You may reach Brother Edwin A. Rohrbaeb, S.M., at the South Side Catholic High school, 4701 South Grand Boulevard, St. Louis. 
Just for the sake of the record or something, we'll say here what all of '31 gang already know: that L«r­
"The morning comes—^I don't ino^v a plcasanfer feeling than that of waking with the sun shining on objects quite new, and (although you have made the voyage a dozen times), quite strange .. . all seems as gay and as comfortable as may be—the sun shines brighter than you have seen ft for a year, the sky is a thousand times bluer, and what a cheery clatter of shrill quicit French voices comes up from the court-yard under the windows!" 
-—William Makepeace Thackeray. 

* * A country beloved by men like Sterne and Thackeray, Charles Dickens and Henry James... Stevenson went through its inland waterways in a canoe and over its mountain passes on foot, to produce bxo Kttle masterpieces, "An Inland Voy­age" and "Travels with a Donkey." 
**" A country whose ivrittcn history runs badi to Julius Caesar and his imperial legions . . , whose first literature was 
•ttTltten in the suave Latin of the Silver Age . . . whose territory is alive with deep-rooted memories of the past . . . Gothic cathedrals, medieval walled towns. Renaissance chateaux, the ordered elegance of 18th-century architecture. 
* * A country of many countries . . . lei-el Pleardy, bathed in pearly light... opulent Normandy .. . wild and wooded Auvergne . . . tranquil, sunlit Provence . . . the austere Pyrenees . . . each with its spedal gifts of hospitality .. . the wines of Bordeaux, of Burgundy, of Champagne .. . a hundred cheeses . . . a hundred sauces .. . an epicure's Eden. 
* * A country whose coastline spaces smart bathing beaches and andent iish­ing ports . . . Deaui-ille and Harfleur 
La Baule and St.-Nazaire Biar­ritz and Bordeaiuc... Toulon and Cannes . . . whose deep-water mariners have 
sailed the seven seas for centuries . . . whose maritime tradition iinds its cul­mination in the magnificent streamlined Normandi'e, world's greatest ship, and her companions in the French Line fleet. 
PARIS—i^^y 

EXPOSITION INTERNATIONALE Once again the nations of the world send the finest products of their artists and engineers to a dazzling world's fair in Paris, Special reductions on railroads, air-lines, steamships, for exposition Ansi­tors. Ask your Travel Agent. 
^fmveh. ilfie 
610 FIFTH AVENUE (BOCKEFELLEB CENTEB), N. Y, 

ry (Moon) MuUins is the new head football coach at Loyola University in New Orleans. Moon will leave be­hind him at St. Benedict's College in .A.tchison, Kans., a sensationally fine record of accomplishment in all sports, and particularly in football. 
AI Stepan, of Chicago, was recent­ly named a duPont representative on special accounts between Omaha and Chicago. 
John Shively was the chairman of the President's Birthday Ball in South Bend and did a remarkably successful job of it. Harry Driggs, ex. '21, was treasurer of the com­mittee. Seri'ing on the executive board were Paul Butler, '27, Russell Kuehl, '29, Judge J. Elmer Peak, '12, and Frank Lloyd, University comp­troller. 
* 1932 Secretaiy: Herlert Gforefo, 9006 
188th St. Hollis. L.I.. New York. 
1932 FIVE-yEAR RE-UNION June 4, 5, 6 

Herb Giorgio sent this grand con-tJ'ibution for your enjojonent: 
Less than five months from now our first class reunion takes place, to wit, June 4, 5, and 6. -A.re you going to be there? Just think of this set-up for a perfect week-end and then make up your mind to attend. 
Friday morning, June 4, we reg­ister and are assigned to our rooms in a section of one of the residence halls reserved for our class. All day Friday we can walk about the old Quadrangle and meet the old class­mates just as though we were going to class. (Some of the boys may be a bit bald and rotund, but you'll rec­ognize them.) 
Friday afternoon we'll have a game or two of indoor baseball and those who wish to may register for the class golf toumament by writing to John Gostisha, 824 Mc-A.lister Ave­nue, Waukegan, Illinois, who I here­by appoint chairman of the golf tournament. I would like to ha%'e the foUovv-ing, and anyone else John chooses, to act as a committee for him and communicate with him in this regard: Ed Britz, AI Consolati, Frank Denney, Budd Dyniewicz, Ed Melchione, Jack Matthews and Bill Slader. 
Friday night we shall have the op­portunity of all getting together downtoivn for a buffet supper. I am going to ask Edward F. O'Malley and Frank O'Malley to act as co-chair­man of this committee. They both can be reached by wTiting to Notre Dame. I am sure they will be able to arrange for an inexpensive sup­per some place in town. (N. B. This 
is one of the few expenses which will 

NORMANDIE, Mar. 3 • ILE DE FRANCE, Feb. 20 • PARIS, Feb. 27 
be incurred over the week-end.) -A^ Scheduled flights available via Air-France to every capital in Europe a committee to assist Frank and Ed, I am going to ask John Bognar, Jim 
Carrico, Bob Wateraon, John Burns, Ellsworth Cox, Ea Everett, Dick Fabrycki, Bob Grear, George Hen­nion, Jerry Hodges and Herb Pelzel to ser\'e. Keep this in mind, fellows! We don't have to "sign in" at 12 o'clock over the week-end. 
Satui-day evening. June 5, we all attend the alumni banquet in con­junction wth the other classes that are having their reunions this June. Our class, however, will have a sep­arate section. Let's make it the big­gest evei-. 
Transportation e.\penses are im­portant. In that regard, I am going to ask to ser\'e, and hereby appoint, Tom Magee of 5891 Chew St., Phila­delphia, Pa., chairman of the Trans­portation Committee. Tom has on sevei-al occasions made helpful sug­gestions for which I am grateful. -A.s a committee to assist Tom, I hereby appoint all owners of cars who are contemplating driving to South Bend this June. Arrangements can be made by car owners, through Tom, 
BOOK MANUSCRIPTS WANTED 
on all subjecb. Write for free booklet. 
MEADOR PUBLISHING COMPANY 
324 Newbury St. Dept. 21 
' Bostor), Massachusetts 

nnssnu 
!N THE BAHAMAS 
Winter haven of two contlnenis — so much, so near, and foe so little! During the months of January, February and March no less than 4S cruises will leave New York on trips which visit Nassau — Dne almost every d.ay! Round trip rates as low as $70. From Boston, cruises sail every other week—6 days from $130. From Miami, two hours by air (daily service — $35 round trip) and overnight by steamer (as low as $19.50 round trip). 
For rijti informattotj see your travel aseitt or 
nnssnu, enHnmns 
INFORMATION BUREAU 
30Rockrfell<!rPIiiia,N.Y..COlumbus5.4213 or DcTclonment Board. Nassau, Bahamas 
to pick up other fellows who haven't cars but who would be glad to split the expenses of driving, thereby re­ducing expenses for all concerned. I would appreciate it if all car owners would advise Tom of their intentions to drive by sending him a postcard telling him their address and the number of fellows they could accom­modate. 
On Sunday, June 6, our class will attend a special Mass in one of the Hall chapels. I would like to have our classmate, Rev. Vincent P. Bren­nan act as chaii-man of this commit­tee and arrange a time and place for this Mass, which I hope he will say for us. If possible, I would like to have Gene Connelly and John Con­nolly serve as altar boys for Father Brennan at this Mass. 
Sunday evening we say au revolr after having spent a wonderful in­expensive week-end. Will you be there? Let me hear from you. 
Since I last \vrote you I have seen Frank Kelly, Vince Prodeht, Bob Nesbitt, Don Sullivan, IVIyles Mullen, Walt Kiolbasa, Bucky O'Connor, Walter Buckley, John Colville, Frank Norton, Frank Reilly (who is teach­ing) Drew Shiebler, Tom Gately, Jack Rudd, Tom McKevitt (a G-man). Clay Johnson (who is with the E.F.C. in Washington), Jack Finneran, Jim Ward, Flo McCarthy, Jim O'Connor, Charles Ferris (a Soil conseiTator i n Washington), Joe Kennedy, John McNeil, Paul Kane, Joe Nugent, Frank O'Kane an d George Melinkovich. The aforemen­tioned were at the Penn Grill the night before the Army game. I was told Joe McCabe and Leo Hodel are practicing law in Chicago; Bill New-bold and brother, Jim, are in Wash­ington, D.C. 
Joe Cook is practicing law in Mon­ticello; Al Waters is studying law; Dick Bohnsack is teaching school, as is Joe Willis; Ray Waters is with the New York Daihj News; Bill Fitzger­ald is at 122 East 42nd street, work­ing for Lily Cup Co.; John Jackson is interning at St. John's hospital. Long Island City; George Seelinger is interning at Mary Immaculate in Jamaica; Leo McLaughlin and Bill Darrow are practicing law in New York. Bill Corr and Murray Booth were seen in New York over the Army game week-end. George Boden says he and Joe Kennedy will be in South Bend in June; Gil Augustine is coaching at Leonardo High school, in New Jersey and hopes to make the reunion; Tony Giuffre is a govern­ment employee. 
A Christmas card from Ike Terry says "See you in June"; Dr. T. J. Tarasovic is interning at Bridgeport hospital—^he hopes to make the re­union; Hank Donalty says on his card "see you next June." Ray Gei­ger, president of the New Jei-sey alumni, says he'll be there in June and advises me that John Papers and Vince Whelan are interning at local hospitals in Newark; Jame« B. Wal­der is running his dad's store in Cairo, 111. Sal Bontempo, with the Newark, N. J. department of central purchase, is married and hopes to make the reunion. 
George Boden, with General Elec­tric Corp., advises me that Bart O'Hara and John Humphreys are driving to the reunion from Denver; George Boden and Joe Kennedy are going to pick up Jim McGrath at Rochester and drive to South Bend; Andy Barton will try to be there; Bill Willigan hopes to get to the re­union if government business is not too urgent. 
Ray DeCook is coaching all sports at St. Joseph's College, Rensselaer, Ind., and will attend the reunion if possible. Al Captor is coaching a high school in New Jersey. 
Pete Streb, one of the boys I missed at the Penn Grill, says he'll be at the reunion with all of Sorin Sub. He saw Harrington, Nelms, Charlie Powers and others in New York. Virgilius Phillips advises that he is welfare director of Whitley County, Indiana. He has a wife and daughter and will be at the reunion. 
Larry Sexton, of Indianapolis real estate fame, ^vill be in attendance in June. Jim Collins, who is now living in Indianapolis, says he will get in touch with Tom Mahaffey, John Scanlon and others in the vicinity. Lan-y hopes to see Hank Donalty and Charlie Hitzelberger in June. 
Dr. J. E. McCambridge, Pough­keepsie, advises me that Leonard F. McCambridge is teaching science in Poughkeepsie High school after hav­ing studied for his doctor's degree at Cambridge, England. 
Jack Hamilton WTites from the University of Michigan where he is employed that he'll be in South Bend in June. He tells me Bill Waltz is married. Jack also is married, to Ruth E. Clarke. 
Don Killian, who is with DuPont in Wilmington, will be in South Bend in June. 
Vince O'Neil, with Investors Syn­dicate, writes that Frank Coogan, ex. '32, is with Standard Brands. Frank O'Neil of Fall River, is managing a large garage there. Frank Gartland is in the seminary in Washington. Vince O'Neil was in New York over the Armv game week-end, as was Walt Mullen. 
Let's hear from you fellows in the Midwest and South. 
Tom Magee writes, after a trip to Cleveland: Nick Ruffing blinked our eyes with 
The Notre Dame Alumnus February. 1937 
AJMERICAiV ACADEMY IIF IIIIAAIATIC ARTS 
Founded in 18S1 bv Franklin H. Sargent. The ^ 
&nt and furemosi institution for Dramatic Training in Actini;. Directing, and Teaching. Sprin|;Terin Uc|;ins April let 
for Caialog addrcst Secrflary, Room 180, 
CAllNEGIE HALL, NEW YOllK 
TAos. Moulding 
Moulfile Master 
Asphalf Tile 
is installed in many 
NOTRE DAME BUILDINGS 
THOS. MOULDING FLOOR MFG. COMPANY 
)65W.Wacker Drive 
Chicaso, III. 
a welcome in Cleveland. He and Rog Brennan, '33, (also barristering) are duplexing, at No. 312, the "Quad Hall," 7500 Euclid Avenue, Cleve­land. Gatherings at Grisanti's num­bered Dr. Michael Crawford, John Collins and ye hawker of anthi-acite, John Kiener. Paul Hallinan awaits ordination come spring. 
Joe Dalsey, I'm told, finally found the Philly Club's habitat. 
Boost for another roommate: Art Hiajbert recently named editor of ye New Smyrna (Fla.) Daily News. I didn't think you could do it, Dr. Cooney. The boy hopes reunion will be part of his first vacation in nigh three year. 
Speaking of Collinses, how about James Kenneth? Calling Great Falls! Following Greeley, how's chances, Tom Meade, of lining up the Seattle-ans? And you, Louie Psencik, the Texas Rangers? -A.nd you all down thar, Dick Escudier, the Louisiana gen'men? Burger is going to Kil­burger and Klein, (Gerald, and pos­sibly Art, too) if Central Ohio does not top even old "Chi" at the re­union. 
Clay Johnson, of Washington, D. C, joined up with Johnny Baldwin, '33, of Chicago, and Ken Stilley, '36, of Allentown, Pa., to have their pic-

A SYMBOL OF (j/UlCUm LIVING 
Your guests will appreciate the beautiful modernness of Blackhawk Hotels — their gracious hospitality — their outstanding service and conveniences. In Blackhawk Hotels you will find luxurious comfort at moderate rates. 
Blackhawk Hotels Located In 
Davenport Iowa Hotel Blackhawk Hotel Mississippi Hotel Davenport 
Mason City-
Peoria Hotel Jefferson 
St. Paul Hotel St. Paul 

• Hotel Hanford 
BLACKHAWK HOTELS COMPANY 
ture taken when they all visited the campus ^^^thin the holiday season. 
* 
1933 Secretary: Donald Wise. 110 Pleasant SL. Joliet. III. Roger Brennan, of Cleveland, is much in the legal limelight in Wash­ington, D.C., as one of the attorneys for the Mid-America Corporation in the senate investigation into rail financing operations. 
* 
2934 Secretary: James Moscow. 2320 N. LAwndale Ave.. Chicago, HI. Jim Kearns escaped from Chicago to California in late December to cover such items as the Eose Bowl game, the Santa Anita track, golf, and tennis for the Chicago Daily Neivs. 
Before he turned sissy and i-an out on the cold weather, Jim sent these notes: 
George T. Poredon, '33, one of Nick's high hurdlers, is now sports editor of the Kenosha Labor, a Ke­nosha, Wisconsin, weekly devoted to the interests of worker and farmei-. 
Ed Mowery's Lancaster Eagle-Gazette, which recently published a huge souvenir edition, was unique in that, after so long, it ignored all rumors about Edward VIII and printed only actual happenings. Ed gave t\vo reasons in a page one edi­torial: Eddie's private life was no one's business but his o^vn. 2, Rum­ors are not facts and people got tired of reading rumors. There were days when the Lancaster E-G was the only thing being printed in the U.S. which did not refer to Mr. Windsor. 
Got a Christmas card from Clyde and Helen Lewis. Didn't know he was married. He lives at 17 Dunster St., Cambridge, in case you didn't either. 
Dick Shiels, of Cincinnati, stopped into the -A.lumni Office on Jan. 6, en route to Chicago. He reported an exceptionally successful Christmas dance in Cincinnati. 
Ralph Rogers, M.A., '34, ^vrites as follows from Arequipa, Peru, South America: "My job at present is a very interesting one. I am in charge of a cattle ranch, or hacienda, as they are called downhere, and have a dozen cowboys, descendants of the Incas, working for me. 
"I would very much like to hear from my old classmates. Jack Brady, Frank Herron, Anthony Angley, Harry Behrman, Phil Cooley, Ed Grimes, Joe Smith and Ed Suech." 
* 
1935 Secretary: F. C. Hochreitcr. 1014 N. 
Eddy St. Soutli Bend, Indiana. Tom Proctor—Treacherous Tom his roommate ^vill call him after be­ing gypped out of this item—conveys the gladsome tidings that Art Sand­usky has just been appointed chief 
o^ 

...MB TWO co m FACTS 
T
'ODAY, in thousands of homes, refrigerators formerly considered as highly satisfactory, are being replaced Avith plus-powered Kelvinators. 
For the new Kelvinator is a luxurious refrigerator. Luxurious in appearance—in convenience —andluxuriousinservice.Itdoes more. It saves more. Its pmrchase is a genuine economy. Judge it yourself by these t\vo facts: 
FACT 1—The new 1937 Kel­vinator is plus-powered. It has as much as double the coolin<? 
capacity of other weIl-kno^^m re­
frigerators of equal size. FACT 2—The new Kelvinator runs only half as many minutes per day—during the rest of the time it maintains low tempera­tures usinsr no current at all. 
The new Kelvinator costs more to build, but it costs no more to buy than a less power­ful, less economical refrigerator. It can be bought on your dealer's special time pajnnent plan—or for as Uttle as 90^ a week on the Kelvinator ReDisCo Plan. 
WHERE A NEW WAY OF LIMNG BEGINS . . . 
cquippeil with Kelvinator electric refrigeration, air cnnilitioning, automatic heatinf;, electric or gas range, washing machine, ironer, anil automatic water heater —can Ikc huUt ft>r ICM than $7*500. Tlie Kelvin Home 
B<M)k, with exterior views, floor plana and <le»cription of equipment, i» now available without cost wherever Kelvinator products are sold. 
jVosft-fCrfrinoforCorp., Krfrinn/orDir., Detmit, Mich^ 
Factories also in LonJon, Ontario, and Lonxhn, Eng^ 
PIUS-POWERED CUTS THE COST OF BETTER LIVING 
clefk of the Wyoming state legisla­ture, which is in session at the pres­ent time. Art was verj- active in the recent presidential campaign, making several impoi-tant speeches. He was \nsiting on the campus when he was notified of the appointment. 
(Soooo, Hochreiter!! Letting news get away from under your nose,.heh? No salai-y for you this month!) 
Ray Smith, back home to Denver from Bozeman, Mont., for Christmas, sent a cheerj' holiday letter with his dues. He reported that Bud Golden, 

• of Butte, Mont., is working in Ana­conda. Kay had seen Bill Jones, '28, in Bozeman one evening last Fall. 
Ha\'ing sur\'ived the holidays in Buffalo, Hoch is back with his case work in the local precincts. He says: 
The family yule has been trimmed, Santa has come and gone and now we approach the semester exams. Just one whirl of pleasure such as this leads us to the query: "Who has more fun than people?" 
But, to more important matters. It just seems that we cannot permit a month to pass without giving you the 
•'inside storj'" on the activities of Dan Cupid. 
This time, the mighty scribe of the hea\ier stuff, the little bespectacled fella from Sorin (first on the left)— our own George Albert Lawton of the Cleveland Lawtons. Yep, our George betook to himself a wife. And we are delighted to know it was a maiTiage bom of college days. We underetand Minnesota was the locus for the knot-tieing episode and the pait}' of the second part was Mary Patricia Walsh of the far West. The date was Jan. 2. (Nothing like get­ting a good start for the New Year.) .4.mong those carrying on in a rather official capacitj- were Art Carey and 
Bud Raddatz. 
The wedding party stopped off at Notre Dame on its way East. The Lawtons, in their gaiety, made a quick tour of South Bend night spots. Al, as you know, is doing him­self proudly in his father's brokerage firm. 
This month we become a news-dispensing agency. We finally have some definite info for you. Counsellor Fautsch. We told you we would keep on the trail of Steve Banas. Our ef­foils were rewarded and we herewith pass on the dope. 
It was our pleasure to usher in the New Year with Mr. and Mrs. Steve Banas in the Queen City of the Lakes. Steve is living at 4001 Seneca Street, Ebenezer, New York (suburb of Buffalo). At the moment, and for the past several months, Steve has been doing a bit of managerial work in the tandem rolling department of the Lackawanna Steel Co. 
The Banas' have a daughter who first saw the light of day four months before Christmas. Her name is Di­ane. We might add that she has the beauty of her mother and the strength of her father. 
We turn this month to Prexie Fisher of the Law Club. Since the letter writers do not seem to have sufficiently recovered from their sparkling beverages, we spent the better part of an hour on the top floor of Sorin one afternoon with the Indianapolis Irishman. 
Pat volunteers that Bill Daoust was on campus immediately after va­cation when he brought the frere back to classes. Bill is working for his father, who is a contractor in Defiance, Ohio. 
Joe Kaley wi-ites that he spent some time during Christmas week with Jim Sheils in New York. Joe was getting final instmctions from his office before going on the road in southeastern New York for the Kewanee Boiler Company. 
Comes word from Missouri way. 
Beanie Cavender, who is attending 
St. Louis Med School, passes on the news that he was best man for his brother's wedding in Clucago on Dec. 
26. We understand that "medicine man" is playing the trombone in the 
S.L.U. dance band. 
Prom down in the metropolitan area of New York comes the dope that Tom Gallagher has taken over duties in the Midston House at 38th and Madison -A.venue as accountant and clerk. 
Seen on the campus within the past three weeks were John Lynch and Bill Bernard. Bill also brought his brother back to classes and John was sounding out the possibilities of returning for graduate work or ob­taining a luci-ative position in these parts. 
Our best wishes for a speedy re­covery and return to full man-power go to Frank Weldon, who, we under-sand, underwent an opei-ation before Christmas at the Columbia Medical Center in New York. 
We hear that Jack Robinson has become an uncle and is predicting that the nephew will be an AU-American on Notre Dame's 1956 team. 
"Roomie" tells us that he has heard from Jim Riley and the Jersey boy anticipates returning to Notre Dame for graduate study if the prop­er openings present themselves. 
-A.nother letter addressed to the Eddy street Proctor comes from Canton, Ohio, and Ray Oakes. The contents were mysterious and all we could draw out of Tom w^as that things are looking 'upward' for Ray. 
Bob Devine writes that he has joined a law firm in Nonvich, Con­necticut. Bob's first case, we hear, was a divorce settlement. 
From LaPorte, Ind. our telo-type reports that Tom Graves is putting the Kuehn Shoe Store of that town on a paying basis. Tom was con­nected with the local store through­out his days at Notre Dame. Recent­ly they sent him to LaPorte. 
From Rochester, New York, and through the medium of Frank Max­well, comes the info on Ed O'Hara. Ed, whom we often saw at Columbia last year, is back in the home town teaching Phy. Ed. at the Y.M.C.A. and St. Mai-y's Orphan Asylum. It is rumored that he is anticipating joining the local educational system within the year. 
Way down in Texas another Co­lumbian of last year's vintage. Bob Carter, is doing his parallel bar work at .\marillo Junior College. Frank tells us that Bob attended the Rose Bowl game a few weeks ago. 
And that about takes us to the end of our chatter for this month. Now that you have all rested up, how about a few letters? We want to keep this thing on the fire and the only way is through national acti^'ity among the '35ers. How about it? 
Here is to a bigger and better cor­respondence and a longer and more interesting column. 
* 
IQ^fi Secretary: Thomas J. Murphy, 15 Mill " St. Kewport. K. I. 
Johnny Moran digs out of the So­cial Security payments in New York to report. He says: 
While down in Philadelphia for the Army-Navy game I spent a very en­joyable week-end at Mickey Dendler's home. Mickey is in his first year at Penn Law School and is doing very well. 

We drove out to the Universitj­to visit Joe Barber who is also a stu­dent of Blackstone, but, unfortunate­ly, Joe was out. John Ryan and Herman Green are likewise taking law at Penn. Over the week-end I met Connie Bryne while taking a walk down Main Street. Connie was in a huriy to catch a train, but he stopped long enough to say that he is working in the office of the Pennsyl­vania Railroad in Philadelphia. 
Banister Dendler informed me that 
Harold "Curley Reagan is going to 
Gonzaga University Law School; Louis Lang is working on a Fond du Lac newspaper, while Norb Casper is cutting up cadavers at one of the Philly med schools. 

Joe Sullivan, from Nonvichton, Conn., dropped in to say "hello" when he was in New York. 
Frank "Doc" Murray, who is go­ing to Cornell Med School here in the city, called up the other evening to 
February, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
MM 

eacfeM./ 
Different from each other ... . different from any other motor car 
S
IX OR EIGHT, your 1937 Olds­mobile gives you the satisfacrion of driving a car that is truly indi­vidual . . . distinctire in styling . . . thrilling in performance . . . and complete with every fine-car feature for comfort and safety. From Knee-Action Wheels and Dual Ride Stabilizers to Unisteel Turret Top Bodies by Fisher and Triple Sealed Super-Hydraulic Brakes, Oldsmobile gives you everything you really want in a modem, up-to-the-minute car... at prices that set the pace in value! 
DH-IVERED PRICES .^^T LANSING, MICH.: Sixes, ^765 and 
up; Eights, ^880 and up; subject to change without notice. Cars illustrated: at top, Eight 4-Door Touring Sedan, ^lotj; lower right, Six 4-Door Sedan, 5(885. These prices include safety glass, bumpers, bumper guards, spare tire and tube, rear spring covers. Trans­portation, state and local taxes, optional accessories and equipment—extra. General Motors Instalment Plan 
\^^^^^ SIX & EIGH' 
tell me that life for a would-be doc­breaking into the Diiili/ Niicn editor­
tor consists of one cvamination aftei" ial department via the papei-'s system 
another. Doc is now living at the of starting colle.ge graduates as cop.v 
CENTRALITY 

Hotel Empire, Broadway and 63rd boys. 
In the heart of Chicago's business and social activities. A step from Chicago's world famous Michigan Boulevard; adjacent to Lincoln Park; a short block from Lake Michigan and almost equally close to the heart of the so-called Loop. 
•
 450 guest rooms, each outside, spacious, beautifully equipped with bath and shower combination, servi­dor and circulating ice water. 

•
 Three colorful restaurants including a popular priced coffee shop, ten pri­vate dining rooms and ballrooms in­cluding our new Notre Dame Room. 

•
 Notre Dome alumni, student body and faculty con be definitely certain that they will receive the ultimate in facilities, courtesy and service at rates surprisingly moderate. 

•
 Moke the Knickerbocker your headquarters when in Chicago. 


Atton G. Hurst, Manager 
lK 
 CHICAGO'S 
HOTEL 
NICKERBOCKER 
Street, where it must be doubly hai'd to study with the great white way just outside his window. 
At the December meeting of the .Votre Dame Club of the City of New York a .good man.v from '36, as well as a large group of vacationing stu­dents, were on hand. Among the foi"­nier were Biff Flannery, Dan Hanra­han, Bill Gillespie, Andy Hufnagle, Bill Walsh, Joe Schmidt and several others. 
At the Christmas Formal spon­sored by the club and the newly re­vived Jletropolitan Club were Howie Cusack, who is going to law school here in New York, Bill Gillespie, Buddy Goldman and others. Inciden­tall.v, if you have a powerful enough radio you can get Goldman in action on station WHN every Thursday af­ternoon at 2:15. The progi-am is called "Big Moments in Little Peo­ple's Lives." Buddy is scheduled into l)rint with a short article in the Feb­ruary or one of the subseo.uent issues of the Ri'dtli'i-'t: Dijiext-
I bumped into Tom Fennelly in front of the Xew Y''ork Daihi News building a few days ago. Tom is 
Career Men 
select oecupalioiis wliicli com­
liiiic present financial rewards 
witli future opportunities. They 
find that life insui-ance selling, 
hotter than most husinesscs, 
offers this conihination to men 
of real ahilily today. 
Wally Fromhart, assistiint Fiesh­nian football coach at Notre Dame this past Fall, was, with the comple­tion of his studies in the first semes­ter, to take over his new job as coach at Mt. Carmel High School in Chicago. A large Catholic high school for boys, with a repubition for out­standing accomplishment in all fields. Jit. Cannel is a fervent Notre Dame supporter. John Jordan, '35, is a member ol the athletic staff in the same school. 
Tom Gorman writes to give his new address: 19 Clinton Ave., Arl­ington, New Jersey. He is working in the plastic division of the duPoiit layout. 
FATHER WARD TO TALK 
Rev. Leo 11. Ward, C.S.C, profes­sor of philosophy at the University, will address the Notre Dame Club of Chicago on Feb. 3. Father Ward's talk will be on "Philosophy of Value.'" 
This will be the fourth of a series of lectures scheduled to be delivered by members of the Notre Dame fac­ultv before the Chicago Club. 
College Men 
selected hy The Penn ^Mutual Life Insurance Company can start life insurance selling on a fixed compensation ))asis, in­stead of a commission Itasis, if they wish. The plan is de­scribed in a hooklet. "Insiu-­ance Careers for College Graduates." Send for a copv. 

COLLEGIATE PERSONNEL BUREAU 
THE PE-\N MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY IiiJcpcndeiicc E.-juarc • Philadelphia 








