The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
·~...................................................... ............
~ ~~~ 
?:lte Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. 
James E. Armstrong, '25, Editor? William R. Dooley, '26, Managing Editor 
Vol. 27. NOVEMBER-DECEMBER, 1949 
•0. 

Natural Law Institute 
Brigadier General ·Carlos P. Romulo, LL.D., '35, president of the General Assem­bly of the United Nations, will address the third annual Natural Law Institute to be held Dec 9 .and 10 in the College of Law at Notre Dame. 
General Romulo -will speak on "The Na­
tural Law ai1d,!e,r,pational Law" at the, last session of e two-day Institute. Othei: ·-.," speakers on e program include the Hon­orable Ricqllrd O'Sullivan, of London, Eng­hnd, fo#er King's Counsel of Great Bri-. tain; Df:~· Edward S. Corwin, retired Prince­ton University authority on constitutional prob~s; and Dr. Stephan Kuttner, noted ~ani?!!' law expert at the Catholic University 
of <'-merica, Washington, D. C. · ..Jhe United Nations president, a native of Manila, P. 1., was awarded an honorary Doctor. of Laws. degree by Notre Dame at tlt'e same convocation in which the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt receiv~d an honorary degree. · General Romulo was elected this fall.on the first ballot as president of the fourth General Assembly of the United Nations meeting at Lake Success, N. Y. His election on the first ballot is a tribute never before paid any ·United Nations president. A former Manila newspaper editor, Gen-· era! Romulo received the Pulitzer prize for Disting'uished Correspondence in 1941. He has.authored a number of well-known books, including four since the outbreak of World War II. The. latter include "I Saw the Fall of the Philippines," "Mother America,'~ "My .Brother Americans" and "See the Philippines Rise." . The establishment and history of the Na­tural Law Institute will he commemorated by a bronze plaque· to be· unveiled at "this year's Institute. Separate bronze tablets will be placed beneath the plaque to record the program, speakers, topics af!d sponsor of each of the Institute's annual sessions since its establishment in 1947, when it was spon­sored by the Notre Dame Club of New York. The plaque is being presented to the Institute by Alvin A. Gould, Cincinnati, 0., businessman, who sponsored the 1948 Insti­tute and who also is sponsoring the 1949 
sessions. It will be placed.in the foyer of the Law Building. 
A Natural Law Library, believed to be the only one of its kind in the world, will also be founded during this year's Institute. It will be known as the Alvin A. Gould Col­lection. 
The Gould Collection will consist of ·a complete and representative group of books and materials on the Natural Law doctrine, and will be accessible to scholars and stu­dents of the Natural Law. A plaque com­memorating the founding of the library will be placed on the door to 'the section of the Notre Dame law library· where the· books will be housed. ' 
A total of 106 titles of volumes on the Natural Law already have been selected for the collection by a· committee composed of speakers on the 1948 Natural Law Institute program. The committee consists of Prof. Maurice Lebel, of Laval University, Quebec; Dr. Ernst Levy, of the University of Wash­ington Law School; Dr..Gordon Hall Ge­rould, of Princeton University; Dr. Hein­rich A. Rommen, of the College of St. 
-Thomas, St. Paul, Minn.; and the Hon­orable Robert N. Wilkin, Federal District Judge, Cleveland, 0. 
RUNNING IN TWO SECTIONS 
In efTect, if not in practice, the November-December issue · of the · "Alumnus" is running in two sections -both "different." .This is the first · section, and it is made up, you. will notice, of class news, mostly. 
The second section, if the printer and the post office meet schedules, will greet you before Christmas. It is' a special picture booklet published by the University. A copy of it is going to every alumnus, and to a lot of other people. 
The "Alumnus" will of course re-.. turn to its regular form with the Jan­uary-February issue. 
No.6 

Additional Faculty Members 
Through an oversight, the names of priests who joined the faculty for the pres­ent schoolyear were omitted from the Sep­tember-October ALUMNus. These priests are: 
Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., philoso­phy; Rev. Robert W..Woodward, C.S.C., philosophy; Rev. Regis H. Riter, · C.S.C., philosophy; Rev. Philip H. Schaerf, C.S.C., English; Rev. William J. McAuliffe, C.S.C., liturgy; Rev. Robert S. Pelton, C.S.C., reli­gion; Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., reli­gion; Rev. Paul B. Rankin, C.S.C., English; and Rev. Jerome J .. 'Wilson, C.S.C., account­ing. 
Prof. Edward J. Cronin, '38, now a mem­ber of the English faculty at Notre Dame, taught for six years in the University of Minnesota, as well as for a year in St. Thomas Military Academy, St. Paul. The ALui-rNus in the September-October issue n'oted only the latter connection. 
In a class note in the September-October issue, the· ALUMNUS said that Rev. Jerome 
M. Boyle, C.S.C., '35, had received his 'doc­torate in philosophy at the Sorbonne. Ac­tually, Father Boyle received his doctorate in the Higher Institute of Philosophy in the University of Louvain; Belgium. 
Fendrich Gift Receive'd 
John H. Fendrich, '84, president of H. Fendrich, Inc., Evansville, Ind., has pre­sented a gift of $10,725 to the University to cover the cost of the Auxiliary Organic Re­search Laboratory in the proposed new Sci­ence Building at Notre Dame. 
The Rev, John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president; in making the announcement of Mr. Fendrich's gift, said that the new lab­oratory made possible by Mr. Feridrich's generosity will be a memorial to. the late Herrmann and Mary Reitz Fendrich, par­ents of the Evansville business executive. Mr. Fendrich attended Notre Dame from 1880 to 1884 and was -personally acquainted with the Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., founder and first president of Notre·Dame. 
Another important gift is that of $25,000 from the Damon Runyon Memorial Fund for· Cancer Research to support the germ­free research being conducted at Notre . Dame in the Laboratori~s of Bacteriology · under Prof. J. A. Reyniers:­
12th ANNUAL UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME. COMMUNION SUNDAYi DECEMBER · I I 
-=~"' \ . 
/ 
·'. 
The Notre Dame Alumrtus 
Engagements 
Miss Betty Thompson and J.:tmes J. Atkinson, '47. 
Miss Helen Elise Hornchuk and Patrick D. Dlack­(ord, Jr., '49. 
1\!i,s Kay McMahon and Godfrey F. Buranich, '43. 
Miss Mary Barany and Dudley D. Birder, '50. 
Miss Rosalind Burgett and William H. Grafe, Jr., '44. 
Miss Freda 1\l. Kuzmic and Mathew J. Grasbe~ger, '49. 
1\liss Gertrude Kazmierzak and Robert E. Ker• ger, '48. 
Miss Alice S=ha(er and Graham W. McGowan, '44. 
Miss Patricia Anne McEntegart and Arthur J. Murphy, ex-45. 
Miss Ruth Elizabeth Kelly and Bernard A. O'Con­
nor, Jr., '44. 
Mi~s Betty Lue Shaum and Joseph T. O'Har.:t, Jr., '49 
Miss Yvonne De Sonia and Joseph P. O'Toole, Jr., '48. 
Miss Agnes Arata and Joseph A. Pappalardo, '47. 
Miss Marjorie Ann Hutchins and Julio D. Petti­
nati, '50. 
Miss Marion Joyce Seely and Thonus F. Quin­lan, '38.. 
!\{iss Betty Earl and Bruce W. RafT, Jr., '49. 
Miss Irene Stachura and William E. Scanlan, '42. 
--+!*'­



Marriages· 
Miss Jacqueline Marie Doyle and James F. Ihrk, Jr., '48, South Bend, Sept. 17. ­
Miss Sally Zygowicz and Theodore J. Buczynski, '33, Chicago, Oct. I. 
Miss Patricia O'Connor and William H. Chitten· den, '48, Monmouth, Ill., Oct. 8. 
Miss Dolloretta Rogers and John R. Cleary, ex• 46, White Plains, N. Y., Oct. 8. 
Miss Rosemary Teagarden and John F. Coleman, '44, Oak Harbor, 0., May 21. 
Miss Benita Anne Guthrie and John M. Consi~ dine, '49, South Bend, Oct. I. 
Miss Margaret Debald and Fred H. Couch, ex-52, Michigan City, Ind., Oct. 8. 
Miss Elizabeth Jane Jennings and Orville E. Dunn, Jr., '48, Lead, S. D., Sept. 18. 
Miss Mary Ligouri Ertel and William j. Dunn, ex-47, Aurora, Ill., Sept.· 5. 
Miss Evelyn Murray and Francis Fitzgibbon, '45, Iowa City, Ia., Oct. 8. 
Miss Isabel Margaret Ho!Tma·n and Raymond R. Flynn, '43, Detroit, Mich., Oct. 22. 
Miss Irene Catherine Kuzmic and Robert F. Gre­gorits, '49, South Bend, Sept. 17. 
!\Hiss Jacqueline Mostaert and Frank L. Hanei, Jr., '48, South Bend, Stpt. 17. · 

Miss Dorothy Coughlin and Norman A. Hennessy, '49, River Forest. Ill., Oct. 22. 
Miss Barbara Florence Steinho(er and Elmer F. Horvath, '49, South Bend, Oct. I. 
Miss Gertrude Lorraine Vodoy and Robert P. Lonergan, '43, Notre Dame, Oct. 22. 
Miss Christina Louise Thau and Ch.3rles E. Mc­Guire, '49, Mishawaka, Ind., Oct. 8. 
Miss Dorothy Waldeck and Edmund V. Marshall, '46, Sept. 1:.!. 
Miss Mary Ellen Neufeld and Patrick H. Martin, '48, Green Bay, Wis., June 25. 
Miss Margaret Anne Clarkson and Daniel D. Meaney, '47, Corpus Christi, Texas, July 2. 
Miss Barbara Jean Freeman and Thomas E. Mills, '42, Beloit, Wis., Nov. 5•. 
· Miss Anne Cecile Barany and James H. Monserez, ex-49, South Bend, Oct. 29. 
Miss Mary Lou Seibert and Peter F. Moritz, '43, Mansfield, 0., Oct. 8. 
Miss Nadine Belton and Harry D. Mosier, Jr., '48, Baltimore, Md., Aug. 24. 
Miss Kathlyn Ann Hammes and John C. Mow­bray, '49, Marycrest, Ill., Oct. 15. 
Miss Nancy McKenna a~d John Murrin, IV, '38, Pittsburgh, Pa.,. Sept. 17. ·· ­
Miss Helen Lee Dlack and Edw.:tnl A. Ostroski, '48, South Bend, Oct. 8. 
Miss Marilyn Brennan and Harry C. Reich, '48, Chillicothe, ~{o., June 7. 
Miss Ann Trautschold and Frederick j. Sheedy, '48, Waco, Texas, Sept. 5, 
Miss Eleanor Wolfberg and Loren I. Smith, '48, South Bend, Oct. 23. 
Miss Maryjane Mcllvenny and Ervin A. Steianik, '41, Chicago, Oct. I. 
Miss Margaret Catherine Cook, daughter o£ Leo 
L. Cook, '18 and Edward L. Twohey, '49, Notre Dame, Sept. 17. 
Miss Elizabeth Boulden and Thomas J. Var1p, ex-46, South Bend, Oct. 15. 
Miss Lora May Nimtz and Donald B. White, '49, South Bend, Sept. 17. 
Miss Valeria J. Kulka and Norbert S. Wleklinski, 
'44, N?tre Dame, recently. 
.Miss Betty Ann Wendland and Robert W. Witch­ger, ex-40, Ba.y City, Mich., Feb. 26. · 
Miss Cecelia Speel and John H. Zwicker, '44, Appleton, Wis., July 9. : 


Born to 
Dr. and Mrs. Henry B. Asman, '32, a son, Henry B., Jr., Aug. 17. 
Mr. and. Mrs. David R. Cartwright, '4:>, .. son, Thomas Joseph, Sept. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Clifford, '38, a daughter, Mary Victoria, Atig. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. Louis B. Cohen, '49, a son, Alan, Sept. 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Constantin, '44, a daugh­ter, Sept. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. John P. Crimmins, cx-43, a daugh­ter, Nov. 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. William E. Dacey, '49, a daughter, Maureen Ann, Aug. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Daly, '38, a daughter, Sharon Elizabeth, Sept. 16. · 
Mr. and Mrs. James L. Delahanty, '40, a son, o<:t. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs.· Paul V. Delker, '49, a son, Chris-. topher Paul, Oct. 9. ' 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas C. Delker, '37,_ a daughter, Constance Louise, Sept. 29. 
Mr. and Mrs.· Gerald P. Doyle, '35, a daughter Katherine Belle, Sept. 26. Clyde E. Broussard, '13, is the proud grandfather. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Dunlay, '43, a daughter, Barbara Ann, Sept. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Elder, '30, a son, Michael George Albert, their sixth child, Sept, 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Elliott, Jr., '48, a son, Oct. II. ~ •. 
1\!r. and Mrs. Bernard J. Feen),. '39, a daughter, Oct. I. 
1\fr. and Mrs. Patrick J. Fisher, '36, a son, Chris­topher John, Sept. 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Fiss, .'33, twin son and daughter, William and Mary, Aug. 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. Sanford S. Friedman, '39, a son, Marc Howard, Aug. 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Gallagher, '35, a daugh­ter, Joan Patricia, Oct. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh B. Good, '48, a· daughter, Ann, Aug. 14. · 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank V. Grimaldi, '47, a son, Mi­chael Francis, Sept. 13. 
. Mr. and !\Irs; Raymond W. Gudmens, '47, a daughter, Judith Maureen, July 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Hamilton, '35, a son, Michael Louis, Sept. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard G. Heckman, '42, a son, Phillip Martin, Sept. 14. · 
1\Ir. and Mrs. William R. Herrick, '39, a· daugh­ter, Christine Ann, Sept. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Jacobs, Jr., '36, a daughter, Mary-Ellen, Oct. 4. 
Mr. and !\Irs. John G. Jaeger, '33, a son, John Andrew, Aug. 19. · 
Mr. and, Mrs. Walter L. Jaworski, '45, a son, Nov. 14. · 
Mr. and Mrs. Cecil E. Jordan, '40, a daughter, Sept. 9. John 1\{. Bannon, '12, is the proud grand­father. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank.ll. Kennedy, Jr., '41, a son, Brian Thomas, Sept. 24. 
1\Ir. and .Mrs. John C. Killian, Jr., '48, a daugh· ter Patricia Anne, Sept. 21. • 
Mr. and Mrs. William H. Klem, Jr., '45, a daughter, Kathryn Marie, Sept. 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. julius R. Kristan,. '39, a daughter, Rita Clare, Oct. 26. 
Mr. a'!~-Mrs. Charles _S. LaCugna, '45,-a daugh­ter, Margaret Mary, Nov. 8. ­

l 
4 
to Frank Walerko, ex-47, on the dea:h of his mother; to Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., '32, and Francis J ., '28, on the death of their mother; to Adam J. Wolf, e:<-39, and Robert N., ex-44, on the death of their mother; to Henry M. Woods, cx-52, on the death of his father. 
Personals 



1905-1909 
While in Europe recently, ?.bximilian St. George, 
Chicago, ran across Pierre de Lunden who was at 
sc!Iool in 1907 and thereabouts. His address is · 72 Av_e. de L'Armee, Brussels, Belgium. 
1910 
Rev. Michael L. Moriarty, St. Catherine's Church, 3443 E. 93rd St., Cleveland, 4, 0. 
From Father Mike: Anticipating a nod from some part of the country and from some member of the class of 1910 we have delayed the sending of this little gem of secretarial work until the last moment. It is designed merely to keep the 1910 class in good order even if not 
good perspective. 
The efforts of Vice-President Buckley have im­pressed me most favorably. Great credit is due him 
but in this particular instance the various techniques 
have failed to produce. Just try to fancy lack of production-in these days. This does not in any way resemble a class letter, but assuming that several 1910 men read the ALUM­
NUS, it is obvious that a committee of one ·can in­
stitute impeachment proceedings and secure-per­haps-the . more or less frantic ell'orts of a brand 
new secretary. 
Strange enough we recently mailed Christmas cards to the membership. What to say? No re­sponse, and it is quite unthinkable to mention 

. names in connection with my reaction because· after all is said and done we might be sued for libel or closed for business. 
On second thought-presuming on the existence of the first-that Christmas card idea was not so good. The boys-men now-might have considered it vi­
sionary, impractical, ideological and, in a sense, a 
waste of money for the missionary cards for which we paid coin of the realm. 
Blithely hoping for credit in this new system of secretarial accounting and w~tl• ,best personal greet­ings to the head skipper and"offi.! ~iaff, 
Yours for the success of the 1950 reunion which could-indirectly-be a part of the Holy Year. 
1911 
Fred L. Steers, 105 S. LaSalle St., 
Chicago 3, Ill. 
Fred Steers has passed on to us a. letter received from Ed Lister, Box 595, Blue Jay, Calif. Ed says in part: "Looking over the picture (in the "Alum­nus"), I see Father Moriarty, who was prefect when I was at Walsh Hall, also Claude Sorg•••• So kindly remember me to them if they recall me. 
"Should your footsteps ever be pointed out my way up here at Lake Arrowhead, a mile high in the skies, the latch is always off to you and any-· one else we mutually arc acquainted with." 
1914 
Ira W. Hurley, 231 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, Ill. 
Clarence Derrick is now president of the Board of Public Works of Los Angeles, Cali£. His address is Room 173, City Hall. 

Charles Faby is . an alternate member· of the United States Delegation to the United Nations General Assembly. He was· once solicitor general of the United States and also served at one time as a member of the Petroleum Administrative Board and as general counsel of the N a tiona) Labor Re-" lations Board. He was also legal advisor and direc­tor of the legal division of the Military Government in Germany. 
1915 
James E. Sanford 509 Cherry St., Winnetka, Ill. 

From Jim Sanford: We are starting to organize our committee for the 1915 35th reunion next June. The plan is to have groups in the Chicago and Notre Dame areas meet periodically and lay out a tentative program and submit it to the members of the class throughout the country. The committee· at present consists· of AI Kuhle, Norman Ranstead and L. D. Keeslar. This committee, with additional members, will meet and the class can expect more information after the plans arc discussed. 
Starting in this issue we will endeavor to bring 
class news as to the present activities of the mem­
bers. AI Kuhle, Chicago regional representative of Federal Security Agency, Bureau of Old Age and 
Survivors Insurance, is responsible for this operation 
in four states and supervises 600 people. In 1949 his regional unit will disburse $85,000,000. 
Al's daughter, Kathleen, recently received her de­grre from St. Catherine's at St. Paul: 'She is now with the Armour Research ·Laboratories. Another daughter, Mary Ann, has just entered Clark College as a freshman. Al's home address is 117 S. Sunset Avenue, La Grange, Ill. 
L. D. Keeslar retired some years ago alter an 
active and successful career in the purchasing de~ 
partment of Peoples' Gas, Light and Coke Co. He has now joined an Illinois Utilities Service, where he is also carrying on successfully. · 
Norman Ranstead is on the engineering staff of Universal Oil Products Co. and has decided to be p1esent next June. ' 
Saw Dill Mooney of Indianapolis recently and we can count on him as a member of the national 1915 reunion committee. He will work with John Mc­Shane to round up our members in the Indiana. re­gion. John was. the lone representative of our class at Notre Dame last June, so we are counting on him to be present for our anniversary party. 
The secretary t:ikes this opportunity to extend congratulations on behalf of the class , to Louis F. Buckley, vice-president of the Alumni Association, who is in charge of class promotion. His enthusi­
asm and constructive suggestions helped to arouse 
this secretary and many others to a realization of the importance of more class notes and frequent 
· communication with the members, particularly with a reunion in the offing. 
An effort will be made to have Joseph Scott, prominent attorney of Los Angeles, talk to us at our class luncheon or some other gathering during 
the reunion. 
As the class will remember, he delivered a stirring talk the day we received our diplomas. The theme, 
as I remember it, was "Swimming Against· the 
Stream." Some of us might have learned something about this in the y·ears since we listened to this silver-haired and silver-tongued orator. To hear him again will be an inspiration. 
De assured that between now and next June, you will hear from us frequently, and a letter will soon be in the mail, notifying the classmates as to the membership on the nation-wide committee to attain a 100 per cent attendance next June. 
Mark your calendar now for reunion dates: June 9, 10 and 11, 1950. 
Dill Mooney, president· of Mooney-Mueller-Ward wholesale drug firm in Indianapolis, served as chair­man of the finance committee in Butler University's recent drive for a new $750,000 College of Phar­macy building. Appropriate ceremonies were held on the site of the proposed building, with Dill digging the first spadeful of dirt. Dill is also a member of the Notre Dame Foundation Committee in Indiana­polis. 
Governor Chester Bowles of Connecticut announc­
ed that George Shuster, president of Hunter Col­lege, New York City, had accepted appointment to a six-year term as a member of the State Board of Education. George resides in Stamford, Conn. 
The "News Bulletin" of the Institute .of Inter­national Education carried an article in the October issue with the title "Education and Wisdom!' It was another of Ceorge's many brilliant wriiing achievements. · 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1916 

·Grover F. Miller, 612 Wisconsin Ave., Racine, Wis. 
Joseph LaFortune, vice-president of the Warren Petroleum Co. in Tulsa, Okla., and a Lay Trustee of the University, has been named a Knight Com­mander of the Order of St. Gregory by His .Jioliness Pope Pius XII. 
1917 

Bernard J. Voll 206 E. Tutt St., South Bend, Ind. 
John Cassidy, Peoria, Ill., is a member of the board of public welfare commissioners recently ap­pointed by Governor Stevenson of Illinois to re­
view administration of welfare institutions and 
services in the state. 
1918 

George E. Harbert, De Kalb County Abstract Co., Sycamore, Ill. 
After many years of devoted duty to the class, John Lemmer in October asked to be relieved· as class secretary. The Alumni Office reluctantly agreed 
to accept his resignation, expressing to him at the 
same time the gratitude of the University, the 
Alumni Association and the class for his magnificent 
help over wide spans of time. 
George Harbert has generously .taken over John's 
work as class secretary and George's first contribu­
tion of class news will appear in the next issue of tl}e "Aium.nus." Needless to say, you could help h1s cause Immeasurably by tossmg off a note in his direction to tell him, and your classmates about your ·grandchildren and other people. ' 
From John Lemmer: Rev. Francis J. Doland, C.S.C., has been· named president of Stonehill College in North Easton, Mass. The college, founded by the Congregation of Holy Cross last year, began its second year of operation in September and boasts of a 580-acre campus, a new science building and a growing student body. Father Doland takes over his new job with an in­valuable career in education behind him. 
After receivi~g his A.D. in 1918, he began a course of teachmg and study that led to a Ph.D. at Catholic University, the vice-presidency of St. Ed­
ward's University in Austin, Texas, and a return to 
Notre Dame as prefect of discipline. Prior to the war, he was head of the Department of Political Science and dean of the College of Arts and Let­ters. In the early war years he was special advisor to the Navy on academic problems involved in the establishment of the NROTC at Notre Dame. He entered the service of his country as a navy chaplain 
i.n 194~ ~~d his war record i_ncluded participation In the Initial assaults on lwo j1ma and Okinawa. He returned to Notre Dame "fter four years of service and resumed his duties as head of the Department of Political Science, a position which he filled until his appointment to the presidency of Stonehill this 
summer. 
A native New Englander, Father Doland returns to home soil to· assist in fulfilling a long standing dream of the Congregation-the development of a strong Catholic college, modeled on the pattern of Notre Dame,' in New England. 
1919 
Theodore C. Rademaker Peru Foundry' Co., Peru, Ind 

Magnificently responding to. the "influence" exert­ed upo~ h~m at the class reunion last June, and .to the IDVJtallon of the Alumni Associ,.tion Ted Ra­demaker has taken over as secretary of the classs of 
-j

1919, succeedin~ Clarence \V. Bader, resigned, bet­
ter known nationally as Chick. I 
While welcoming Ted to the ranks of the class I s~cret:-ries the Alumni Office thanks Chick for splen­did a1d. Ted's first news will be hi the next· issue · 
i 
I

of the. "Alumnus." 
j 

. Volume 27, No. 6, November-December, ·1949 
1920 
Leo B. Ward, 458 Spring St., Los Angeles 3, Calif. · 

Thirty-year Class Reunion the week-end following .Commencement, June 9, 10, and II, 1950. 
·CLASS REUNION CHAIRMAN: Edward J. Mee­han, South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Ind. 
"sECRETARY: Leo B. W.ard, 458 South Spring St., Los Angeles 13, Calif. 
COMMITTEE MEMBERS: Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., Rev. Francis P. Goodall, C.S.C., Vincent F. Fagan, Mishawaka, Ind., Michael Edward Doran, South Bend, Ind., William Francis Fox, Indianapolis, Ind., Harry A. Richwine, South Bend, Ind. 
ReligioUs, please arrange with your superiors to 
get out this week-end. Married men, get pcrmi<sion from your wives to attend. All others make such 
arrangements as may be required under your par· ticular circumstances. 
As plans develop you will be notified. 
I spent the weekend of the Tulane 'game on the campus and was pleased to note that Michael Ed· ward Doran, like Barnum and Bailey's Circus, is bigger and better than ever. Those of you who re­member Mike as a tall, slim lad would never recog­nize him with all his estimated 240 pounds, fit and healthy looking. 
I also saw Si Degree (the elder) with his son who is at least six inches taller than Si. 
Bill Fox was present in the dressing room after the game, representing the "Indianapolis News." Other than his grey hair, .Bill has not changed. 
The St. Joe Valley Club had a smoker before the game at which was present Walter "Hick" Sweeney, the two-milcr, still selling real estate and insurance and looking in condition to go two miles on short 
notice. 
Father Frank Goodall, until recently was vice• president of Portland University, has been trans­ferred back as pastor of Christ the King Church, just out of South Bend. 
Vince Fagan was around and still appears to be the number one architect in Northern Indiana. 
Father Art Hope is stationed at St. Joe Farm and, as the historian for the University, recently reissued his revised one-hundred year history· of Notre Dame, now brought down to the beginning of Father John 
Cava"il.'l.ugh's regime. 
· I recently saw Father Pat McGuire, now Rt. Rev. Msgr. Patrick McGuire, stationed at Salt Lake City and apparently thriving inasmuch as I am advised that he has the finest parish in the Salt Lake City diocese. l\hgr. McGuire spends a few days in Los Angeles at rather frequent intervals. 
I understand from Lyle Musmaker's brother that Lyle's latest efforts in the military service convinced him that it was time to settle down to a happy married life. He is now married and a parent. I forgot to inquire whether it was an heir or heiress to the Musmaker millions. 
Bill Jones of the Alumni Board reports that the Hon. Joseph Patrick O'Hara, congressman from Minnesota, finds time away from ·his arduous duties representing his constituents to get in a golf game with various members of the Supreme Court, the Circuit Court of Appeal and other dignitaries in Washington. 
A number of agreeable surprise visits and com­munications have been received in the past few months; Those of the class of 1920 will undoubtedly remember "Dog" · White, now Mr. Richard M. White, o.s. 07-19, Pacific Coast manager of Frank's Manufacturing Co., well servicing. and drilling units. Dog, or Dick as he is now known, advised that he has a son now attending Notre Dame. Since leaving Notre Dame he attended Tulane University and went in the oil well supply business, with offices in Hous­ton, Texas, Tulsa, Okla., and now in Los Angeles. 
I have had a number of communications from Morrie Starrett, Port Townsend, Wash., postmaster, Morrie was chairman in charge of entertainment for the weekend Notre Dame and Washington playe'd in 
Seattle. · 
I also· received a letter from· Ed Dundon, prae• tieing law in Iron Mountain, Mich. 
George (Obie) O'Brien has been quite ill and had to give up theater management. He is now en­gaged in the stationery and printing business in Glendale, Calif., which business keeps him busy but does not have the long and confining hours of run­ning theaters. 
I also received a visit from Jim McCabe and Bill White. Jim, of course, lives in Los Angeles. Bill was visiting his son in Los Angeles. He returned to Ottawa, Ill., where he is a farmer, showing that the agricultural course at Notre Dame docs produce results. 
I also had visits from Conroy Scoggins of Hous­ton, Texas, and Bill Jones, of Washington, D. C., both of whom arc directors and members of the 
committee on revision of the constitution and by­
laws of the Alumni Association. 
Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski, C.S.C., was formally in­stalled as pastor of Holy Trinity parish, Chicago, at a solemn high Mass on Nov. 6. A banquet hon­oring Father Lisewski was hdd the evening of Nov. 13. 
Father Lisewski was born in Chicago and attended Holy Trinity grammar and high school there. Later he received his bachelor of arts degree from Notre Dame. After finishing college, he entered the no­vitiate of the Congregation of Holy CrO.s. After his 
novitiate year, he was sent to Rome, where he 
completed his philosophical and theological studies at Gregorian University. He returned from Rome a doctor of philosophical and theological science, and a priest. 
In 1934 he went t;, Jagiello University, Cracow, Poland, after serving as curate at St. Casimir's church in South Bend. After his return to this country in 1936 he was professor of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame, and was president of St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas. 
Father Lisowski succeeded at Holy Trinity parish the late .Rev. Casimir Sztuczko, C.S.C., who had been pastor there for 52 years. 
1921 
Dan W. Duffy, 1101 N.B.C. Building, Cleveland 14, Ohio 

Jim Huxford was a recent recipient of a golf tro­phy presented him at the wind-up dinner of the Skaneateles (N. Y.) Country Club. Jim, who down­ed his opponent on the 18th green in the senior flight of the club's tournament this summer, is the 
first to receive the new award. Jim's son, Dave, 
is married and has a daughter and is back at Notre Dame for his law work. Dave spent three years in the Marines. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 39 Cambridge St., · Rochester 7, N. Y. 

From Kid Ashe: God has summoned another 1922 man-John E. Mahoney of Enid, Okla., who died recently. Details of his death are not now available. At N.D., John was registered in Commerce. He was a mighty fine chap. All who knew him were much 'impressed with his character, his personality, and all valued his warm friendship. We of '22 extend our sympathy to a surviving brother-A. G. Mahoney, and to his sis­t~rs-the Misses Mary and Frances Mahoney, 
Here is a letter from our good friend Charlie Hirschbuhl, grand mufti of the 1922 class for the Northwest territories: 
"You are a very poor manager for not ha~ing 
arranged your duties so they would have carried you to Seattle for the Washington game on Oct. I. You missed a grand game and a grand occasion, and I will try to put forth some of the highlights as I saw them. 
·"First and most important is the fact that Jerry Jones and wife Marion came to spend their vacation with us, arriving Sept. 27 from Dixon, and staying until Oct. 4. Pat (Mrs. Hirschbuhl) and I had a chance to show. them a part of our country out l1ere, went to the game in Seattle, and returned to Portland for a couple of days before they had to return home. You can well imagine how much we enjoyed their visit, which ,was altogether too. short, but did allow time for some real visiting and fun. 
"In Seattle we saw quite a few 'old·timers,' Duke 
Hodler, '23, Frank Lonergan, '04, Roge Kiley, '23, Bill Schmitt, '10, Hugh Lacey, '14, and Jol:n Kil­kenney, '23. I had a dandy visit with Herb Jones and Bill Schmitt the night before the game, and were guests at another occasion of Hugh Lacey, and again with John O'Donnell, cx-24. We went to the Seattle alumni luncheon at 'the Edmond Meaney Hotel, from there in a bus to the game, and after­wards to the usual round of celebrations, etc. Others at the game were: Gene Murphy, '23, N.:>tt MacDou­gall, '31, Ivan Sharp, '23, and many other Port­landers of later days. 
"The weather during the visit of Jerry and Marion was near perfect, and were we glad! Right after they left conditions changed; the rains came and now Portland is back to normal. At Timberline 
Lodge, where '"''e spent one night, there are now 
several feet of snow, although the ground was ab-' 
solutely bare when we were there just two weeks 
ago. It was the grandest treat in the world to have 
the Jones' with us, and not since our reunion in 
'47 have I had so much news as Jerry was able to 
give me, regarding our former classmates, teachers, etc., 
If you should happen to sec a giant tackle (weight 26S pounds) playing on the Nevada football varsity 
team next season, ·chances are it wi11 be Tommy 
Atkinson, son o£ Doctor Hank Atkinson of Green Bay, Wis. Tommy is now on the Nevada freslmian squad. 
Chet Grant, who is getting much favorable attcn­
•tion for his publication "Under.the Hat"-a weekly letter on the :Notre Dame football team for Notre Dame fans-paid Buck Shaw a fine compliment in his Oct. 4 issue. After mentioning an anecdote in­volving Buck in his playing days, Chet had this to 
say: 

". . . the same Duck Shaw who now Coaches San Francisco 49crs-in his day an 185-pound gentleman 
and scholar and as fine a lineman as ever I've 
played with or watched play." 
Congr,.tulations to Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J · Kearns of Terre Haute upon the occasion of their 20th wedding anniversary celebrated on Oct. 9. Also, to the AI Scotts o£ Los Angeles for their 20th anni­
•:ersary on Oct. 2S. 
Joanne, daughter of the Charlie Hirschbu~ls of Portland, Ore., was the bride of Bradley Qumn of Portland on Sept. 3. We congratulate the newly­
weds and· extend our best wishes, also, we felicitate 
the bride's parents-Charlie and Pat. 
D. Worth Clark of Idaho, former .senator, an•_ nouced recently that he will be a cand1date for t~e Senate in 1950. He previously served one term m the Senate and two terms in the House. 
Aaron Huguenard was recently toastmaster at. a kickoff breakfast for the South Bend Commumty Chest campaign. 
Earl "Curly" Lambeau resigned as head coach of the Green Bay Packers whom he had directed for the past ' 28 years. He'll work with them as vice-president and general manager. 
James Metcalfe, who is famous for h.is "Por­
traits , presented in many papers, was tn South 
Bend' Oct. 3, 4 and 5 giving lectures to the South Bend Rotary club, St. Mary's College, Notre Dame journalism classes and the Eagle's lodge. 
·William A. A. Castellini is a trustee for the Rob­ert Gould Research Foundation of Cincinnati. Bill is giving a lot of his time to promoting the Natural Law Institute at Notre Dame, sponsored by 1\[r. Gould. 
Will you partic~larly in your Masses and prayers remember Jack Miles, '47, son-o£ Frank, '22, who, as this is written, is still in an iron lung in St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, the victim of polio? Stricken early in September, Jack has been in criti­
cal condition ~ver since. 
1923 

Paul H. Castner, 1305 W. Arlington Ave., St. Paul, Minn. __ Lcs Logan visited the campus Sept. 13. Three oL his sons are all in school at N~tre Dame now, 
6 
1924 
Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, C.S.C. Cavanaugh Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Again not much news of the class of '24, the re­
spon::e· to appeals being meagre. First, however, the congratulations of the men of '24 go out to our cla.ssmatc, R. Conroy Scoggins, on his election as a 
member of the Supreme Board of the Knights of Columbus for a term of three years, starting Sept. I 1949. Conroy, as a director of the Alumni Asso­

I 
ciation, made a recent, albeit hurried, call on his 
Alma Mater the week of the N.D.-Tulane game, but 

had to rush off to Canada to a meeting of theI Supreme Board of the K. of C. 
I Among other recent visitors to-the campus was 
T. Cliff Noonan. Your secretary had the pleasure 
of a surprise meeting on the stairway of Cav~naugh 
Hall with Cliff and Mrs. Noonan, and the shU fur­
ther surprise that ClifT's son, Edward, resides in Cavanaugh. An~ther son, Tom, was also here; Tom 
is entering Maryknoll Seminary to prepare for the foreign missions. Cliff already has another son studying for the priesthood at Our Lady of the 
Lake Seminary, :\[undelein, Ill. 

John N. Stanton, Gary, now chief deputy prose­•• cutor of Lake County, Indiana, has a son, John N., a )Ophomore, also resident of Cavanaugh and an­
I other son, james F., a freshman in Zahm. 
I 
John Gotuaco, now in the Philippines, h~ a son ,, enrolled as a freshman at N.D.· Did you see the son's pictur~ in the ALUMNUS before this one? 
News of other '24 sons here or '24 daughters atI St. Mary's will be welcome. Your secretary hopes, to 
complete the roster for the next issue. How about 
some help_? 
Bob Rink on Oct. 26 last lost his ten-year-old son, Michael, who died of head injuries sustained i.n a fall off ·his bicycle. The youngster was on hiS way to school for afternoon classes, when he lost control of his bicycle and fell in the path of an oncoming truck. The truck driver swerved and avoided hitting the fallen boy. Bob has the heart­felt sympathy of all his classmates in his sad 
bereavement. 
Four days after our Commencement in 1924, 'Valter R. Rader, son of the founder of the Buck­eye Clothing Store of Coshocton, 0., lost hi• father· Walt took over the management of the 
store, 'which is nO\V celebrating its fouttieth year 
of service to its community. The Buckeye Cloth­ing Store has long been a great figure in the civic and athletic life of Coshocton and th< congratula­tions of all his classmates go out to. Walt on his 
successful management of a gn•at enterprise. 
Ben Ong's latest ~ddress is Paramount Motors Co., First Floor, 8 F Po Ai Road, Taipeh, Formo­


sa, China. 

L 
Conroy Scoggins '"''as honored at a dinner in 
I Houston, Texas, in recognition of his election as a 
supreme director of the Knights of Columbus. He is the immediate past state deputy of the Knights of Columbus, having retired from that office on June 30 after serving three terms. 
Frank Kelly, of the Department of Speech at Notre Dame, spoke at the postgraduate college of the American Legion in Indianapolis in October on "Public Speaking." 
In the September issue of "The Houston Chron­
icle 1lagazine" there was a picture of Buck Hennes and an article entitled "He Remembers 'Rock'." Duck '"''as "the first official trainer" at Notre Dame and is now a professor of government in the Uni· 
versity of Houston. 
1925 
John P. Hurley, The Toledo Parlor Furniture Co., Toledo, 0. · 
From John Hurley: 
Twenty-five years is a. long time, and the boys 
will have a lot of territory to cover at next June's 
reunion. In case you missed the list in the last 
ALUMNUS there are ten fathers who have sons as 

first-year students at the University. Edward Abler­ing, Herman Centlivre, James Chisholm, William Clemens August Fipp, Irvin-; Lammers, John Lightner: George Ludwig, Willhm Merriman and Armando Porta. 
Bill Cerney will be a grandfather by June, and Elmer Layden is the father of a varsity player. 
Jim Armstrong just received word that Bernie 
Livergood is in a hospital with a, serious heart at­
tack. Remember Bernie and the rest of your class­mates in your prayers. This brings up a poi'!t that Jim and some of the boys I've talked to tins P.ast 
month thought was a good start for our reumon year. 
Let every member of our class pin a dollar bill to a note about himself, his family, and any other information he may have on his fellow '25ers. These dollars will go into a fund for Masses for our de­
ceased classmates, as well 'as the living ones. These 
Masses will start in November-as the '25crs in To­ledo have already started the bills rolling. If you 
don't have tiine for the note send the "green note" 
anyway. The Mass stipends, will go to the Bengal 
~fission priests. 
Don Miller our class president, sent this fine lei­ter: "I was delighted to hear from you regarding 
our class reunion ·next June. You may rest assured 
that I shall do everything in my power to plan a successful reunion. In my opinion we had the finest cla.s that ever graduated. I believe that the 1925 group accomplished more and bad more spirit than almost any other class. 
" ••• I have two of our classmates, Frank Steel and Jack Kane on, my staff in the United States Attorney's Ollie~. • .• We have six children-five daughters and the youngest, a boy, who is entered in the class of 1961. 
"As you Perhaps know, I worked along with T~m 

Clark in his juvenile delinquency program as cha1r· 
man of the sports. writers and broadcasters group 
through the country for the past four years. I was also elected national secretary of the United States Attorneys' Association and in 1948 was elected presi­dent. 
"I received a call from Joe Boiand and he in­formed me that the Four Horsemen will iii(;et in New. York on Oct. 24, and will be on the "We, the Peo-· pie" program on Oct. 25. Our week-end reunion for the '24 team will be at the Southern California 
game." 
In Bill Cerney's letter accepting the chairmanship of the executive committee he said the list of thirty in South Bend \Vas certainly larger than he realized, and if all made the reunion, it will be 25 years since he will have seen many of them. 
I recalled that there were half a dozen '25ers in Toledo and that I hadn't seen some of them in quite a while so I gave them all a call. This plan seems 
to be ~ "painless" way of getting news, and after 
the "dollar for Ma.ses" drive is over, I will call on 
someone in the big cities to contact the boys on the 'phone. · · Den Kesting's h,·o sons are finished at Notre Dame. Jim, his younger one, graduated in architectural 
engineering last June. Ben is with the Comte Con­struction Co. He saw Paul Hartman in Pittsburgh this summer. Paul has one son and a. daughter. He is still in his father's business, the Pittsburgh Empire Oil & Gas Products. 
Paul Dooley couldn't talk on the 'phone an<! we had a "pad and pencil conversation" the last time I 
saw him, a few months ago. He had a serious oper.. 
ation on his vocal cord but he came through the ordeal in good shape. Paul has two boys •.• Dick, 
eight, and John P., seven .. 
Ray Tillman has a married daughter, Kathleen; then Barbara, Lawrence, Sherry and baby Judy. Ray is assistant secretary of the Unitcast Corp., here in Toledo. Reunion week will be a "red letter" one for Ray. If you remember, Ray "jumped the gun" on the rest of us so he is celebrating his 25th 
wedding anniversary on June 8, and then comes our 
r<union the following day. He hopes to be in good shape for both! 
T. Frank Murray is the,manager of the Toledo Cartage Co. Frank's swell family ranges from Tom, 15; then Frank, Caroline, and Veronica, the young­
est, is three and one-half. 
Carl Schaffer is with Owen & Owen, patent attor­neys. Carl's oldest, Ann, is attending Toledo Uni­versity; then John, 16, and Mark, seven. 
Your. class "sec," John Hurley, is still in the fur-
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

niture business with his brothers, and is proud of 
his two daughters, Moira, 15, and Patty, 13. 
Don't forget to send the dollar-a. check or a bill-for the Masses that will start in November, and continue (we hope) till our reunion Mass on June 10, 1950. 
W.ally Cyr has been appointed assistant irade sales manager for the Yale and Towne Manufactur­ing Co. Walt joined Yale and Towne in 1926 after he was graduated from Notre Dame. He resides at 17 Hillside Ave., Stamford, Conn. 
The fall issue of the "Trailways Magazine" car­ried an article by Elmer Layden, entitled "Foot­ball." 
At a. recent meeting of' the South Bend chapter of the National Association of Cost Accountants, 
A. J. Porta gave a talk on "Accounting as a Tool of 1\[anagement." He is comptroller of the Stude­
baker Corporation, and lu~s a ~son at "Notre Dame. 
At a recent man3gement conference meeting of 
the Calvert Distillers Corp.; it was discovered that 
three Notre Dame men were there. John Roach is 
Calvert's director of trade relations; Joe Friel, '29, 
is assistant treasurer and assistatit secretary; and 
Walt Houghton, '26, is advertising manager. A pic­
ture· of these three will appear in a later issue of the "Alumnus." 
Bill Hurley writes regarding the reunion: 
"Just recently I had lunch with John Snak3rd in New York, and he too is planning on being present. 'I looked up Frank Howland in Detroit about a month ago, and had a very interesting gab-fest with him. He'll be there. I saw Dr. Frank Kowals the night before the Notre Dame-Michigan State game, and I believe he will be among the present. I ran into Jack Courtney at a Kiwanis meeting here a week ago, only to find he has been 
getting in town about every two weeks, and we 
hadn't seen each other in 25 years. He'll be there." 
1926 

John J. Ryan, 1415 W. Thome Ave., Chicago 26, Ill. 
From John Ryan: 
In the September-October issue of the ALUMNUS we reported that the class roster would be in your 
secretary's hands in time to get cards out to re· 
quest some .life histories.-It did arrive and proved 
my estimate to be on the low side. 
The class roster, which includes all who received degrees in 1926, plus elected members of the :Oiass, breaks down as follows: living, 298; dead, 37; miss­ing, 26, or a total of 361; So it looks like the 25 I scheduled as contributing ·,editors will have to be beyond the 30 (to which I changed when I got the roster) to 35 or 40 for each issue. Reason for-the 
increase: so that we get everyone before the issue 
just ahead of our reunion in June, 1951. So fellows, 
when you get that card from me just remember I'm 
writing a stack of them, and come right back with 
your own \vriting. 
Now for areport of progress: 30 cards went out­11 answers came back. And a telephone call from Mrs. Joe Rigali to say that Joe's letter was on the way (we'll get that in the next issue). That re­sponse (almost 40 per. cent) is ·a pretty good start, but the other 19 fellows can disregard the deadline 
shown on the card and send their stories at their 
earliest opportunity. They will be used in the next 
issue. · · 
But let's get to the stories: Rollie Berry writes from Milwaukee on the letter~ head of the Cramer-Krasselt Co. (advertising) that after a year with the late "South Bend News-Times" he moved into advertising with Studebaker, then to Chic:.go for five years and to ll'lilwaukee and his 
present connection, where he is an account executive. 
To some the fall of '29 recalls "Black Friday" and­the market crash but to Rollie it means the time of his marriage to Mary Watson of Mishawaka.. Rollie reports their 12-year-old son, Bob, as a likely pros­pect for the football team of '56. His experience on 
a visit tO the campus a year ago indicates a need 
for Seeing Eye dogs for returning "old" ·grads. Don't worry, Rollie, enough of us will need guides in '51 that the University will see the wisdom of 
providing them. , 
It looks like a little difficulty. in the Dallas home 
Volume 28, No. 1, January-February, 1950 
~£ Dill Defferari ( '22-'24) around Dec. 3-his 21­year-old son is a student at Southern Methodist. Bill writes that after he left N.D. he spent many years in the educational publishing field. Five years ago he went with Hiram Walker. (We should get him and Uncle John (Calvert's) Roach together-how many volunteer judge• can we get?) Bill is now located in 
Dallas "" the Walker Texas manager. 
Many years ago Phil Donovan proved a friend in need when I got my signals mixed and failed to meet my gal (and still my gal) on her arrival for 
the Prom. So he comes through again in ans\\'er to 
my call. Phil writes from his country home at In­gomar, Pa. (and it's a lovely one, as I remember it) that he has returned to Recordah Corporation in Pittsburgh after four years in the Navy, most o£ which was in North Africa, England and on the Continent. But I'll bet he didn't serve in the 
"black gang," as he did on that summer cruisC to 
the Orient. 
"Bert Dunne Productions" is the letterhead carry­
ing a very complete story of the old reporter's life. Most o£ you remember Bert standing up to the plate ready to take his cut at that ball. But I re­mtmLcr Bert lor his reportorial duties. Get him to tell you the story of that Penn State trip. I still think they wouldn't have stopped the train up there in the Pennsylvania· hills. Bert was at N.D. in Oc­tober visiting his son, Patrick. He has four other children, two o£ whom should appear at N.D. in '56 and '63. Bert spent some years with Campbell­Ewald (advertising agency), then went into adver­tising and public relations work for three years and for the past five years has been producing motion pictures. Probably many o£ you have. seen some o£ his work or read some o£ his books. Bert reports .that he sees Ed Fallon and Jim Dwyer when he gets to New York and also sees Red Conroy in San 
Mateo. We'll be seeing you, Bert, in '51. 
Father Isidore Fussnecker, O.S.B., who got his 
1\!.A~ with: m, writes £rom Florence, Ala:, that he 
established Blessed Martin de Porres Church and has 
built a congregation for colored people in Florence. 
He sent a picture of his little church· and another 
of his converts. If any o£ you want to helo in 
his work, his address is 648 West College St., Flor­
ence, Ala.• 
Father William Green writes that he has been on the faculty o£ Loras College at Dubuque, Ia., since 1930. 
Bernie Hurley of Ponca, Nebr., says he hears from 
Gerry McGinley in Ogallala, Nebr., once in a while. He must have a pretty fair law practice for he planned to •ce the Southern California, Southern Methodist and one other game this fall. He'll have a son ·r~ady for N.D. in about four years. His two 
daughters, ages six and one, will wait a few· years 
yet for their college education. And Bernie is an­other who says "will certainly plan to make the '51 

reunion." 
How Pete La Cava even found time to· answer my 
card is niore than I can figure. Listen to this: Member of St. Joseph Bar Association, justice o£ the peace in Mishawaka for 21· years, choir direc­tor, leader o£ family orchestra and quartette, pro­
prietor of "Casa ~fari~" at Lake \V"awasec, Ind., which is an outgrowth of private catering in his 
home; and father o£ four daughters and one son. He reports seeing lrwing Hurwich, Art and George -Farage in South Bend and Gene Brown and Alex Sie,·ers in Elkhart. 
Harold Neu reports from Des Moines that he has celebrated his 20th anniversary and that the munici­pal bond business-Ballard-Bassett Company-pro­duces the groceries for his family which includes " 12-ycar-old daughter and a nine-year-old son. He expects to see the Southern Cali£ornia game. What about the reunion, Harold? 
Brother Stanislaus Rusilowski, C.S.C., wrote a nice letter telling o£ his teaching work. For 18 years he was stationed at Holy Trinity High School in Chicago. For the past three years he has been at St. Anthony's High School in Long Beach, Cali£. 
Look back £or ~ second .at Pete LaCava's story. 
See that "justice Or. the ·peace." llere is one of his 
customers. Allen Travis reports that back in 1933 Pete put that "through the power invested in me by the State o£ Indiana I now pronounce you" stuff on him for il£e. As this is written, Allen is preparing to take the California Bar exam. He practiced for years in South Bend, Mishawaka and East Chicago, until the Army beckoned in 1942. After his service, which included 15 months in New Guinea, he did what so many guys in the Army said they were . going to d<>-he settled in Cali£ornia (at 1334 14th Street, Santa Monica). Eddie Duggan and Harold N•u, please note address. ·Allen said he'd like to hear from you. He will try to be on hand in '51. 
The members of the class for whom we have no 
current address arc: Norbin Arehart, J. Cullen Brown, Lester J.· Clarke, Dr. Fred R. Davis, Fran­cis l\1. Esch, Dwight L. Field, Harold J. Gallagher, Edward J. Gebben, Linsung Hahn, Joseph P. Ru­vey, John W. Keelin, Harold J. Kiley, Gerard D. Left, John B. Lenihan, William D. Minter, Rev. P. Herman Mossman, O.S.B., Leon J. Pallanck, John 
E. Probst, William. J. Regan, Emmett T. Rohwer, Manuel V. Sanchei, Joseph W. Tatham, Gerald L. Timmins, John H. W.agner, Maurice P. Welsh. 
If anybody can give us a missing address, or even 
any clues as to how to get it, we'll be mighty grateful. Write to me or to Bill Dooley. 
Well, fellows, there it is. I hope Bill Dooley loses his blue pencils and uses it all. Sorry I couldn't 
just send your letters on and say "Print in." For the rest of you who couldn't make the "deadline"__: 
forget the date and send in the dope. It will go in 
the next issue. 

"Remember '26-Prcpare for '51." 
Clem Crowe, former line coach of the Buffalo Bills, was named head coach. 
Dan Kelly, South Bend, who has one o£ the 
largest collections of historical newspapers in the 
United States, had his papers on exhibit in the pub­lic schools in South Bend and Mishawaka from Oct. I to Oct. 8. Dan accompanied the display to the various schools and told about i:ems o£ out­
standing interest. 
Rudy Goepfrich, South Bend, has been appointed chief en'!ineer o£ the automotive brake department in the Bendix Aviation Corp. Rudy. has been with Bendix since 1927 and headed the new brake de­velopment section from 1935 to 1943, when he 
became assistant chief engineer. 
"Man Around the House," published by Prentice­Hall, New York, is Norb Engels' latest book. More about it later, after the Pro!efssor lets me read a copy. For the present, all I can say about it is that it concerns the simple business o£ making­yoursel£, that is-Chippendale chests, hurricane lamps and other such pieces o£ this and that-WRD. 
7927 

Joseph l\1. Boland, Radio Station WSBT, South Bend, Ind. 
From Joe Boland: Somewhere the sun is shining •.. and somen·hcre secretaries are safe .•• but, with Lou Buckley on 
•the prowl, these sections of the ALUMNUS have to come-through with readable material or we're likely 
to lose our franchise. So, brethren, check-in with 
the Sec. whenever possible-in person; by mail; dog­
team; or carrier-pigeon. I'll accept anything but collect-wires! 
Don Wilkins ••. now, a colonel in the Army Air Forces • . . showed·up on the campus for the Tulane-game week-end, in charge of the AAF head­quarters detail handling the ·ABC broadcast of the · 
ga.me, ,-.,-hich was aired in the interest of AAF re­cruiting. Don, air·and-chair-borne, not only likes 
his. assignment ••. but it evidently likes him, be­cause the job he's doing is a good one. . 
Regis Lavelle did the right thing: whit~ in South Bend, he called me and left word that he was in town £rom his native Pittsburgh • . • even though we failed to get together (my fault) his name gets 
in l1ere. 
Ralph R. De Leo, sales manager £or (hold your hats on this one, boys!) the Anne Alt Brassiere Co., Compton, Cali£., was a station-caller after the In­
diana game-he was en route to New .York on busi­
ness. Looks fine, feels better ••. said "hello" to 
everyone via this space. 
Frank Pendergast's father died recently in Gales­burg, Ill., ••• according to Lou Buckley, who be­longs in the next room but who has just come in 
!or a visit with this item, and a fe\\· more to follow. 
7 

Lou adds that Bill Coyne is with the legal division of the Atomic Energy Commission and living in Joliet, Ill. Buck spent an evening with Bill and Dr. Ed Mayer. The Coynes have one boy. . 
Mike McDermott -who lives at 1895 Oakdell Drive, Menlo Park, Cali£., got far enough off home­base to see the \Vashington-Notre Dame game in Seattle and we held·up the corner o£ the Olymp•c Hotel there for hours while we batted-out flies about '27 and adjacent years. Mike is west-coast represen­tative £or Hill-Rom Furniture ••• and, naturally, had "business" in Seattle the week-end of Oct. I! 
Mike passes on the word that Dave Hickey io living at Millbrae, Cali£., working for the Cali£ornia Power and Light Co. and that Ray Sulli,·an is a 
native now of 1t.lanhattan Beach, one of Los An· 
. geles' many suburbs. Pat Heney and Byrle Grose­
close \'t'ere somewhere in the throng at Seattle, both 
McDermott and Herb Jones agreed • • • because they had met, and talked: but I missed connections 
with both, sorry to say. 
Ed De Clercq is now making his home once again in his native South Bend-after Chicago, Peoria, and war-time sojourns in the Army. Ed is planning to return to the wholesale-grocery field: his activity before the war. He's feeling swell ••• ready to roll once more, after a long siege o£ illness that followed 
his military service. 
From the Alumni Office came word of the death in 1945 o£ Dr. Gyan Sharma, Ph.D., '27. Remember 
him in your prayers. That's about "thirty" for now; but remember ... Buckley's looking over that fence, inspecting the growth o£ pasture here •.. so keep that stuff ·com­ing in for proper plant production! 
Art Bmdley is recreation director at the Newark School, Newark, N. Y. 
Elmer Marchino announced the opening o£ his 
law offices specializing in the law of taxation and 
related matters at 529 Circle Tower, Indianapolis 
4. He lives at 125 East 51st St. ·James Griffin J,:.y, 302 N. Alpine Dr., Beverly Hills, Cali£. writes the story for "Chip Grant" in the "Catholic Boy," published at Notre Dame. The Jays have three children: Bob, a Jesuit scolas­tic; Anne, a candidate for the Sisters o£ the Holy Cross, and Mike, aged 13. 
Lyle Morency is with Knouse Foods at Peach Glenn, Pa. 
Vic Lemmer, '26, writes that he took care of 
Tom "Red" Bearden and his St. Norbert football team while they stayed at an Ironwood, Mich., hotel for several .nights. They played and beat Northland College (54-0) at Ashland, Wis. Red and his players attended Mass in a body and received Holy Communion. Red had his usual top team. 
7928 

Louis F. Buckley, 4700 W. Adams St., Chicago 44, Ill. 
From Lou Buckley: I spent a very e~joyable evening with Father J.~~es GaHagan,. C.S.C., recently in Watertown, 
''JS., where he. u pastor of St. Bernard's Church. 
It was like old times getting up early to be pres­ent at his Mas" I was unable to give him any recent information on Ed .McGauley. Ed, by the way, recently moved to 1058 Main St., Leicester, Mass. How about a report from you, Ed? Father GaHagan mentioned that Swede Schroeder has a son at St. Tl10mas College in St. Paul. The deceased members of the Class o£ 1928 are continuously re­membered by Fr. GaHagan, and especially during the month o£ November. 
A business trip: to LaCrosse, Wis., gave me the opportunity to see Augie Grams and Joe Doyle. It 
seemed like only a few years ago when I saw a pic.... ture of Augie's four little daughters in "Life." 
When Augie informed me that on¢ o[ his daughters is now in her second year o£ college at St. Mary's, I realized that the "Life" picture appeared some 12 years ago. I was sorry to hear that Augie's father died very recently. · Augie has a feed mill in La­Crosse and a farm near the city. Although Augie 
is as ' modest as ever, I heard from a number ·of 
people in LaCrosse o£ the outstanding work he has done in religious, civic and Notre Dame fund and club affairs. 
It was a pleaso.nt surprise to meet Joe Doyle o£ 
8 
Sparta, Wis., who was with us in Freshman hall, on the staff of the LaCrosse district office of the Wis­consin State Employment Service. Joe lives in Sparta and has three girls and two boys. Two of his daugh­
ten are in nunes• training. Joe inquired about 

Vince Carney and about the Evansville gllng with whom he roomed in Freshman Hall. 
I had an opportunity to talk to a number of the '28 men in Milwaukee recently. Art Sla\in, who is married and with the Soil Conservation Srrvice, mentioned that he saw Gus Jenkins recently in Mil­
waukee. Since Gus seems to travel more than most 
of us, I think he should give us a report for the next issue. Let's hear from you, Gus. Paul Brust and his brother have an architectural firm in Mil­waukee. Paul has five· children. I enjoyed having the opportunity of spending some time with Frank Hold:.mpf who is doing structural engineering work in Milwaukee. Frank is married and has three chil­dren. He is quite active in K. of C. affairs and makes a number of trips throughout the country in 
K. of ·c. bowling tournaments. I was unable to reach Bill Brown, another Milwaukee '28er; however, I have seen Bill recently in Cleveland and Chicago at Catholic Economic Asociation meetings. Bill is in the legal department of Allis-Chalmers. 
I met Jack Lavelle at the Chicago airport not long

I. ago. He had been in this area attendin~ some games. Jack tells me he has lost weight, which was not evident to me since I had not seen him in some time. He promised to send me some news soon. I understand from the N. Y. fellows that in addition to his C.Y.O. work in N. Y., Jack is kept busy as an after-dinner speaker and as a scout at games throughout the country. 
A recent trip to New York did not allow time to see many of the fellows there. However, I did have an opportunity to see Bernie Garber and Steve Sherry. They are working together with the Corbin Co., 33 W. 60th St., N.Y. 23, in fund raising activ­ities for Catholic organizations. Bernie mentioned that Dan Verrilli, who is in business in Morris­town, N. J ., stopped in to see him a short time ago. Steve Sherry, like Bernie, retains the youthful ap­
pearance o£ campus days. Steve was in service dur.. 
·ing the war and had taught in California prior to that time. I discussed plans for our 25-year reunion in 1953 with Bernie. I am hoping he will take over the job of promoting that reunion as he did so well in 1948. 
Bill Murphy called me . recently to let me know that Bill Cronin had been in Chicago to attend the funeral of his father-in-law while I was out of town. Rill Cronin previously had been at Notre Dame where his son, Vaughn, began this year as a fresh­man. Bill Murphy is in sales work for a chemical concern in Chicago. He is still sin~le. Bill reports that Bill Armin is in public accounting work in Chi­
cago. 
Bill Jones and his wife and daughter stopped in Chicago on their way from California to_Washing­ton, Bill reported that my old Freshman Hall room­mate, Joe Brannon, is now with Sears Roebuck Co. in Los Angeles, Cali£. The address of Joe's store is 4550 W. Pico Blvd. Joe is married and has. a family. He was in the Navy cluing the war. 
I met Vince Ducey's brother in Chicago who told me that Vince is with the California State Employ-· ment Service in Sacramento, Calif. His address is 1421 • 16th St. there. Vince was in service during the war. It was good·to-get..a.~eport on Vince and I understand he is. still. single.· : ' 
The. other day I met Frank Meyer in the loop. Frank lives in Hammond, is married and has three daughters. I see Father Mark Fitzgerald, C.S.C., quite often, as he comes into Chicago to do re· search work on his Ph.D. thesis. He has completed his class work at Chicago University on his Ph.D. I met Ed Keenan at the Labor Day Mass at Holy Name Cathedral in Chicago. I understand that Joe Doran of Lafayette is now in Atlanta, Ga., with Sears Roebuck & Co. 
Leo Walsh ·wrote from Grand Rapids, Mich., where he is a member of. the law firm of Carmody, Geib, Walsh & Block. Leo married his St. Mary's girl friend of campus days, Mildred Ronan. They have three children, two boys and a girl. Leo has attended the annual Notre Dame Retreat for the P""t 12 years and has seen Henry Hasley and Spike McAdams at the retreats. By the way, Spike is very much in the news in Chicago these days as at· torriey for Preston Tucker in the case before the U. S. District Court here. Spike was a most suc­cessful campaign manager a year ago for Senator Paul Douglas. 
Joe Horan reports from Fort Wayne where he is with the General Electric Co. Joe is married and has a 16-year-old son. Joe mentioned that he sees. Fronk McCarthy, who still looks fit enough to play on anybody's team, and Frank Metrailer, '29, who is with General Electric. 
Father Andy Mulreany writes with his usual en· thusiasm over his parish work at St. Mary's Church, 209 E. Tenth St., Austin, Texas. Father Andy feels like a real Texan, as he starts on his sixth year there. He visited his brother, AI, in Laurence tillS summer. AI is active in Notre Dame Foundation work there. Father Andy mentioned that he called Frank Creadon between trains in Chicago and that he heard from Fred 'Vagner of Tiffin, 0. Andy re· ports that Brother Patrick, C.S.C., is on the staff at St. Edward's University. Keep up the good work, 
FathCr, and please continue to remember us in your 
prayers. 
Vince Stace came through with a newsy letter from Dearborn, 1\lich. Vin is still with the Detroit Edison Co. as assistant purchasing agent. He spends a good share of his time placing their major con­struction projects. He sees Joe Simonin quite often 
in their construction engineering department and 
Art Scheberle who has rejoined that same depart· ment after being away for quite a few years. Vince was in the Air Force fighting the Battle of the Pentagon during the war years. He observed that his civil engineering gang will get a laugh to hear that l1is primary classification was finally listed as an "Electronics Officer." He was chief of the Guided Missiles Branch of the Research Development and Production Division of the Army Air Force. 
Another Michiganer from whom I have not had a report for some time, Dr. Guy L. Loranger, wrote from 250 Rayson St., Northville, Mich. I was sorry to hear that Guy has been quite ill during recent years, which accounts for his inability to attend the 20-year reunion. He was in New Guinea. and the Philippines two years serving with the Fifth Field Hospital. Guy was married in 1935 and has six children, five girls and a boy. 
I assigned Joe Morrissey the job of roving '28 re• porter for the football games. Joe saw the following at the .Indiana game, in addition to regulars Pat Canny and John Frederick: Bob Graham, George Coury, and Bert Korzen. Joe's coverage of the Pur­due, game included Frank Donovan, Vince 'Valsh, Bob Mohlman, Francis Meyer, Pat Canny and John 
. Wallace. Joe noted that the little man from Indian­
apolis, Bob Kirby, was conspicuous by his absence. 
How about that, Bob? 
Joe's report also mentioned that he talked to l\.1arion Heffernan recently in Louisville. Marion is at the First National Bank there and is still single. 
Fred Pfortner is with the Indianapolis Power and Light Co. in Indianapolis. 
Former Congressman Bob Grant has joined the public relations firm of Grant, Ploeser, Dixon and Murphy with offices at 111 West Washington St., Chicago. Bob will remain in South Bend where he is also a member of the law firm of Voor, Jackson, Grant and McMichael. 
Dr. Frank Ford is a resident surgeon at Cook County Hospital, Chicago. 
Jim Shocknessy, Columbus, 0., was named chair­man~ of the Ohio Turnpike Commission by Governor Lausche. The Commission is organized to determine the location of th estate's first super toll road. 
F. X. James O'Brien is ·a securities specialist for the government and is located in Tokyo, Japan. His address is ESS/AC-GHQ, SCAP-APO No. 500, San Francisco, Calif. 
George Coury visited the campus on Oct. 8 and delivered lectures to two sections of Father Mc­Donagh's labor-management class in the Department of Economics. On Nov. 5 he delivered another lec­ture to the finance majors in the College of Com­
merce. 
The body of Capt. Tom R~ckelshaus, Indianapolis, Army Air Force officer who was killed in a plane 

crash in a mountainous area of India on a war... 
time flight, has been returned to Indiana. 'Memorial and burial services were held at the United States National Cemetery, New Albany, Ind. 
The Purple Heart awarded to a Marine Corps hero, Lt. Col. Joseph P. McCaffrey, who was killed lead-
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

ing a Raider Battalion on Bougainville in 1943, \vas presented to his nine-year-old nephew and name­sake Joseph Patrick McCaffrey, son of the late Lt. 'eot. Hugh McC31Trey, who was also killed in the war. The ceremony was held on board the de­stroyer U.S.S. McCaffrey at Pier 26, Hudson River, New York City. 


7929' 

Don J. Plunkett, Biology Department, Notre Dame, Ind. 
From Don Plunkett: Here are some letters and news bits of interest to 1929. 
Rev. Theo. J. Mehling, C.S.C., president of Port• land University, writes: "I have just been reappoint· cd for a second three-year term as president•. Before being made president in 1946, ·I was dean of ·studies for eight years. The following members of the class of 1929 arc on the faculty at Portland University: Rev. Regis H. Riter is head· of the Philosophy De~ partment. Rev. Cornelius Hooyboer is a member o£ the English Department. Rev. George L. Dum is teaching philosophy and is active in the School of Music. He also has charge of a very fine cultural series o£ lectures and concerts. Rev. John A. Molter is head of the Department o£ Biology. Rev. William Coughlan is head of the Department of Mathematics. Rev. John W. Scheberle ,is head of the Department
of English." · ~ · 
Doc Dough~rty writes: "My wife and I dropped in on James 'Red' Curry and family at Broad Lawn Harbor, Kings Point, Long Island, early in August. Red as you know is doing nicely in the real estate business. Red sees Jim O'Connor, Bill Cronin 
(N. Y.), and Jerry Crowley occasionally. : 
"We also visited with Tom Mahaffey and family. Tom is the father of three and is in business in 
N. Y. and lives at Scarsdale, N. Y. He sees John 
H. Flanagan, attorney of Newburgh, N. Y. Tom would like to hear from John Dorgan and Ralph 
Zimmerman. 
"Saw Jo~ Timlin who is in advertising and li~es in Scarsdale. Lou Bestin (Louisville) is now wou· ing for Revere Copper and Brass and living in Manaroneck, N. Y. John Polisky, John Niemiec and Paul O'Brien make the Ohio Valley Notre Dame Club meetings regularly. Bill Yaeger, brother of Lou and Jack, is president of the club. Francis 'Vallace, alumni president, also attends· these gath­

erings. 
"I missed. Charley E. McDermott at the reunion in the group of steel plant metallurgists and oper­ators including Walt Mu!Our, Bill Johnson, Clyde Atchinson and myself. I would like to know the whereabouts of Phil Tompkins ·and John Patrick 

O'Conner.'' 
Tony Kopecky (Lawndale National Bank, Chicago) writes: "My Corby Hall bunk-mate, Irv Corcoran, even though not present at the Oliver Hotel party when we needed a piano player, is still the big noise at the Acme Furnace . in Chicago. · Air condi­tioning needs in July kept him from attending the 

reunion. 
"Bill Dowdall invited me to see Niagara Falls on my 'second honeymoon,' so I may take him up on this in the near future. Saw Fred How at the I.A.C. 
~ here in Chicago some time ago. Fred can be reached at 4911 West Washington Blvd. I would like to hear from Bill Donelan of Colorado Springs." (Bill is with the Manufacturer's Services Co. and has a son 
enrolled at Notre Dame.) 
·saw Larry Stauder on tlie campus recently. He is using some special laboratory equipment developed by Elmo Moyer, E.E. '29, who for the past year has been doing research , and teaching at R.P.I. · Larry has been counselor for the active Notre Dame branch of A.I.E.E. Recently Larry was elected to office in the Catholic Forum, South Bend. Francis Jones is a charter memtier and past governor of the Forum. He or Larry would be glad to acquaint­
t

interested readers of the ALUMNUS with this Cath­olic activity. 
]

We regret to inform you o£ the death o£ Linw. 
C. Niemeyer, '29, who died Aug. 25. He is sur~ vived by Mrs. Linus C. Niemeyer who lives at 222 
S. Market St.,· Ottumwa, Ia. The class of 1929 ex• tends our sincerest sympathies to Mrs. Niemeyer and had a month's mind celebrated on Linus' ·anniver• 
sary, 
~ 

Volume 27, No. 6, November-December, 1949 
Mickey Mci.lahon writes: "I was extremely pleased that so many of-our class could attend the reunion and I only hope that even more will be ahle to br' back five years from now, The picture I have in­cluding' Walt MulOur, Larry Moore, Bob McVety, Father Otie Winchester, Don Schettig, John Cush­man, Hank Bums and Doc Dougherty, while not a photographer's dream, is one I hope can be used as a pattern for taking a duplicate of this group at our 25th. reunion." 
Rev. Bernard McAvoy, C.S.C., writes that he cele­brated the reunion Masses for deceased members of our class during the early part of August. 
Congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Paul A. Bertsch· on the arrival of a son, Robert Louis, born July 29. 
Twenty-five Masses have been celebrated by priests of our class for deceased members of 1929. If you wish to increase this number let me know. 
I 
MIDSEMESTER REPORTS The Prof would like to have the following men turn in their written duties this week-the midsemes­
1 
trr pink slips will soon be out: Pat Greene, Dill Dowdall, Roy Shulze, Art Morley, William S. O'Connor, Elmo Moyer, Ed Garrity, Rolly Schlager, 
Joe Fitzgerald, Tom Jorden and Frank Betting. 
WHAT ARE THE '29ERS DOING? John C. Murray-is president of the Murray and Co. Inc. (Management & Research Consultants) and is located at 7027 Merrill·Ave., Chicago. He sends his best wishes to his '29 classmates and plans to be present at the 25th reunion, 
John W. Withey-is with. the U. S. Veterans Ad­ministration in Grand Rapids. He was unable to get to our reunion. 'He can be reached at 35 Home St., S. E. 
Maurice Feldman-writes as a civil and architec­tural design engineer (U. S. Engineers) from Louis­ville, Ky. Mail will reach him at.322 W. Broadway, where his two sons, Tony, 6, and Nick, 3, rule the 
·household. 
William ·T. Byrne-sends "Hello to All.'' He has been with the San Francisco School Department since 1930. Dill's duties include coaching, teaching physical education and hygiene and director of_ in­tramural activities. He plans to attend the 25th reunion. The Byrne's have two children· and live at 875 -34th Ave., San Francisco. 
J, Thad Heinlein-is manager of the Austin & Son Lumber Co. in Erie, Pa. The Heinleins have two childrenand live at 44 W. 28th St. 
John J, Donahue-lives at 535 S. 49th St., Phila­delphia. He is with the Bureau of Reclamation, 
U. S. Dept.. of the Interior, and has been electrical 
inspector at Grand Coulee Dam, Davis Dam and Hoover Dam. · · 
Joseph T. Barnett-is in the.· insurance business in Ogdensbu-rg, N.Y. The Darnetts have. two children.­Caesare S. Janeskeski-is chief adult probation officer of South Bend ·and can be reached at the Court House. 
Rev. James F. Mulcaire-is pastor at St. John's, Hanover, III. ' 
Edward G. Darch-is assistant of the Social Secur­ity,Administration in Akron, 0. 
Daniel J. MeN~ly, attorney for the Milwaukee Association of Commerce, · resides at 611 N, Broad­way. 
Anthony J, De Dario-is an attorney in Elkhart, Ind. He has two children and is very active· in the 
K. C.'s and alumni. work. · 
Paul D. Holahan-rate engineer on special prob­lems for the Ohio Dell Telephone, Cleveland. The Holahans are proud of their tackle prosper! son, Daniel J. 
Bernie Hugger-is manager for the Amerir.an Air­lines at Cincinnati. He is located at Lunken Air­port.· 
Rocco D. Perone-is division training supervisor for the AT&T and can be reached at 1538 Union Commerce Bldg., Cleveland, The Perones have three children, 
Paul H. Drokhage-is secretary and treasurer of the Blackford Glass Co. of Vincennes and can be reached at 537 Willow St. 
Helmer E. Heuer-is assistant pro at the Johnson Park golf course in Racine, Wis. 
John K. Rowland-is executive director of the St. Louis Regional Inter-American Center at 419 Olive Street. 
William G. Fitzpatrick-is an attorney in Detroit and has offices at 2437 National ~ank Bldg. 
John T. P. Burke-is teaching at Clinton High School (Mass.) and lives at 297 Chestnut St. The Burkes are the proud parents of four children. 
John D. Harrington-is a partner in George S. Olive & Co. (certified public accountants) of Indian­apolis. John writes that-he was unable to attend the reunion because of conflicting engagements but is planning on the 25th reunion. The Harringtons have two children and live at 4104 Ruckle St. 
Leon ,V, Archer-spends his time real estating in Denver. 
Rev. Norbert C. HolT-former president of Carroll College, Helena, Mont., under Bishop Fin­nigan (former vice-president of N.D.) is a pastor in 
Butte, Mont. Father HolT delivered the '29 bacca­
laureate sermon. 
James C. Roy-is a law partner with Poland & Doirs at 75 Federal St., Boston. 
Don P. Alexander-sends his greetings from Colo­rado Springs, Colo. 
Cyril A. Jones-is supervisor for the Pennsylvania. Department of Public assistance in Reading. Mail will reach him at 919 .N. Front St. Jim Brady-is general manager of station KIFI, Idaho Falls, Idaho. The Bra.dys have four cltildren, all interested in 
radio and television. 
Theodore A. Witz-is secretary of the old Pueblo Savings and Loan Association in Tucson, Ariz. Jim Keating-of South Bend is assistant U. S. district at­torney and has offices at 332 Federal Bldg. 
Joseph Keefe-of 1616 Elm Road, Lakeland, Fla., is manager of the Dundee Citrus Growers Assocta­tion. The Keefes have five children and Joe is active in Rotary, Holy Name, and alumni work. 
Joe Angelina-is a life insurance undenvriter and in the real estate business in Buffalo, N. Y. You can find Joe at 578 West Ave. Paul A. Drysslbout­architect, Bay City, Mich., is a member of the board of directors of the Michigan Society of Architects. His office is at 1003 Washington Ave. 
Jim Digan-is president of the Logansport Foun­dry Industries, Inc., and president of the Digan Sales Corp. at 2100 Erleave Ave., Logansport. 
Francis J. Haverlick-is an airline pilot and can be ; reached cfo Pan American Grace Airways, Lima, Peru, South America. 
Clet Schneider-is secretary of the Schneider Transportation Co. at 800 Marshall Bldg., Lake­wood, 0. The Schneiders have four children and Clet is active in the propeller club of the U.S. and the N.D. club of Cleveland. 
Frank Smola-is educational director of the N a­tiona! Dairy Council at Ill N. Canal St., Chica.go. Dill Wilbur-is division engineer for the C.&N.W. Railway in Green Bay, Wis. 
Leo Rees-is sales engineer for the Durotest Corp. of North Bergen, N. J. The Reeses have three children and live at 312 N. George St., Rome, N.-Y. Ed Krick-is-manager of the H. L. Green Stores in St. Paul, Minn. The Kricks have four children: Stuart, Edward Jr., Antoinette and Carolyn. Ed is on the board of directors, Twin Cities N. D. Club. 
An ultra-modern $12,500,000 expansion program has recently been completed by the Miller Brewing Co., Milwaukee, Wis., und.r the direction of Fred Miller, president. The dedication was celebrated in the presence of state. and city notables, as .well as representatives from other Milwaukee breweries. 
Hugh McManigal, Miami, Fla., was here over the Tulane weekend. Hugh has two daughters, both married, and is the proud grandfather of one grand­child, with another grandchild due momentarily, 
Paul Bartholomew and Fred Daer, '33, took part in a panel discussion sponsored by the St. Joseph County League of Women Voters, South Bend, at its first general meeting of the season. Paul's topic was "Tools of Town Government" and Fred discus­sed Iodil forms of government. Paul teaches politi­cal science at Notre Dame and Fred is city attorney in South Bend. 
Murr~y Gbsgow, president of the Glasgow Brew­ing Co:, Inc., Norfolk, Va., recently entertained about 80 members of the crew of HMS Glasgow in the tap room of the brewery-it was "Glasgow Day" in Glasgow. 
1930 

Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Mrs. Louis Hasley was honored at a meet-the­author party in the Aquinas Library and Book Shop in South Bend. Her new book; "Reproachfully Yours," has just come oiT the presses and is the first collection of her articles to appear in book form. It is published by Sheed & Ward. 
Dan Cannon reports both by letter and by word of mouth (he and the managing editor had two quick conferences in New York on Nov. II and 12) that plans for the 1930 reunion next June are pro­gressing admirably. Dan expects, as this is written, to be up for the Southern Cal game on Nov. 26 and will at that time get together with Devere Plunkett, local class chairman, and the Alumni Office staiT to do more planning. The heavy firing on arrange­ments and mailings will of course start after the first of the year. 
But remember now-the dates are June 9, 10 and 
II. Round up your best pals and be sure they'll 
be here with you for that weekend: Walt Langford, head of the Department of Mod­
ern Languages at the University, was guest speaker 
at a Knights of Columbus Communion Breakfast in Connersville, Ind. · ­
Fred Schoppman was elected president of St. Mary's alumni at the annual picnic of the organiza­tion in Fort 'Vayne, Ind. (Ed.'s note: We're not referring to St. Mary's College, Notre Dame.) 
Ed Conroy, San Antonio, Texas, is executive 
vice-president of the Planning Board of San Antonio, Texas, and Bexar County and as director of the Bureau of Governmental Research, which is an ac­tivity supported by the Planning Board to conduct research in problems of local government. · 
1931 

Walter F. Philipp, 4 Pickwick Lane, Newton Square, Pa. 
Rev. Thomas J-Culhane, C.S.C., pastor of St. Helen's Church, Georgetown, Texas, has been unan­imously chosen a director of the newly formed Georgetown Community Welfare Association. Pur­pose of the association is to co-ordinate all relief organizations in the city so that there will be no duplication of charity. Father Culhane was also selected as a director of the newly formed 'Vil­liamson County Tuberculosis Society. 
The "Chicago Tribune" carried a picture with the caption, "Sons get football tips from famous dads.'' Bert Metzger and Hank Bruder, former 
·.,.• Northwestern.back~.,vere gh·ing Jlert, Jx:.,_ and Hank, Jr.; some valuable -tips.· · · 
1932 

James K. Collins, 17 Triangle Ave., D~yton 9, 0. 
rrom Jim Collins: Dill Waltz reports from behind· the Cashier's desk of the Ohio-Merchants Trust Co. of Massillon in a manner that touched me deeply. He wrote: 
"My heart went out to you and the '32ers when I read your terrific 'four-line' account of the old men in our class in the Sept.-Oct. issue of the ALUM­NUS. The obituary did not show it, but I guess that old:writing spirit has died. Otherwise they are all alive and kicking. 
"You have probably heard that the N.D. Glee Club (of happy memory) gave a splendid perform­ance in Canton under the auspices of the Canton 
10 
Club during Holy Week last April. One of our own Massillon boys, Dick Blaumeiser, performed as 
soloist. The concert was well received but next time 
we hope to have the choice of a betier date. 
"My job at the bank is still taking the majority of my time what with auditing, comptrolling and 
purchasing. Next ,,·cck I hope to renew acquaint­
ances with several '32 fellows as I am flying to Philadelphia to the national convention of the bank auditors and comptrollers. I am also president of the Holy Name Society her~ and recently organized 
a Catholic Action· committee." 
Bart O'Hara brougiJt me up to date on his activ­itios with a fine letter. After taking his law degree at Catholic University, he returned to Denver and has been practising law there since. He was public administrator for several years, until 1943, when he became assistant U. S. district attorney. In 1947 he 
resigned that to concentrate on private practice. 
Bart is married and has five little red-heads, three boys-Bartley, Daniel and Thomas, and two girls-Halley and Kcarin. 
He writes that John Humphries is with Travelers 
Insurance, married and has four lovely children, one 
boy and three girls. Bart and John see each other almost daily. Bart further wrote, 
"Tex Simmons, who still lives in Dallas, gets up 
to Denver during the summer. 'Ve always have a 
splendid visit. Tex is married and at the last ses­sion had four children. His wife is a very charming Texa• girl and we always enjoy the visit. 
"Phil Dunleavy was stationed here during the war and when it was over he set up a law office in Al­buquerque,_ New Mex. He is now deputy attorney general of New Mexico with offices in Santa Fe. He is married and had two children at the last reading. 
"DiU Vaughn lives in Denver now, married a

l 
I' Denver girl, and has four children. He has a uni­
form business for nurses, chefs, etc., and I sec him 

I 
at the N.D. club meetings regularly. 
I 
"I am going to the S.~f.U. game in Dallas and will see Tex, and I hope many others, there. I lmve not been able to get to any of the reunions but I hope to get to the next one." Bart's home address is 2065 Fairfax St., Dem·er 7, Colo. 
Licut Bob Lee is the legal officer on the staff of the Chief of Naval Air Training, and is living at 210 Payne Road, Warrington, Fla. He wrote in 
~art, 
"I hit my 40th birthday !..t month, and it is hard to believe that all of us are getting to be old timers. Our twin daughters are 13 now and in the 
eighth grade. 
' 4Things are going along pretty well for me in 
the Navy, and the work is very interesting. I ex­
pect to get a promotion soon which will be quite 
welcome. I travel around some on the job, getting to Washington, Chicago, Memphis .. and Corpus Christi regularly. 
"I helped entertain the NROTC boy' from N.D. 
\\hen they were here this summer, and· we also took 
in the N.D. Band concert when the boys were here around Easter. Outside of that, I've had very little 
contact with N.D. people-and, as you can imagine, 
I read every word in the ALUMNUS for news. "When I last saw my brother Maury in June, he and his fine family were in good health, and things 
were going fine for him in the law business. "Sorry I have not mol-e news for you but I just 
found out that I am the only N.D. alumnus in northwest Florida. You might print that and maybe 
someone will pop uP around here to prove it is not true." 
Ernie Hechinger, from his office with the Central Architectural Iron Works, 4227 N. Knox Ave., Chicago, gives a fine report as follows: 
"Frankly, news regarding fellon·s in our class is about as scarce as corn picker orders. For your information, I am purchasing agent of the above 
concern and also the Farm-Rite Implement Co. of 
Chicago, and \\o"C are in the farm implement busineSs. 
Only I regret to advise that business at this writing 
is very, very slow. 
"I recently had a phone call from Barney Bern­hardt. He reports everything is fine and dandy in Sturgeon Bay, and is looking for four tickets to the 
Northwestern-,Visconsin game. No doubt, I'll see 
him over that week-end. 
"I might also report that Bud Dyniewicz is going great guns with the Deep Rock Oil Co. and has recently been appointed their general advertising 
manager. I am also in correspondence with Denny 
Salvaty and Dick Roney, both of whom report busi­ness conditions very favorable, and I might abo add that each has recently announced the arrival of' his fourth child." 
Thank you, gentlemen, for those fine letters. May­be the idea will finally ca.tch on and I shall hear 
from someone else bcfo~e another issue goes to press. 
Congratulations to Bill Hall-he is the first mcm­
b~r of the class to have a son enter the University 
as a student, according to all the information I have. Col. C. D. Jones has been transferred to Head­quarters, Sheppard Air Force Base, Wichita Falls, 
Texas. 
The Alumni Office is w.ithout the present address 
o! several members of the class, and this information 

is desired. Anyone knowing the address o( any of the following is asked to send it to the Alumni Of­lice. They are, Louie Brennan, Bob Briggs, Jim Carmody, William Cronk, George Cullinan, Frank Emerick, Tom Finnegan, Larry Fischer, Bill Fitz­gerald, Tom Gately, Bob Gerharz, Bill Glass (Law), Bob Hartman, Arthur Hoctel (Law), Gerry Hodges, Morris Hull, Marty Kennedy, Jim Koons, John La­Uame, Bill Langenbahn, Don McManus, Frank Maas, Myles Mullen, Maurice Neville, Louis Orgera (MA), Mike Papas, Tom Rossie, John Rush, Bill Ryan, Richert Schneider, George Seelinger, ·Rabbi Maurice Stiskin, Dorotea Sumabat (MA), Jim Wil­liams, Willie Willigan, and Aziz El-Araj. Mail has been returned unclaimed from each of the above. 
Frank O'Malley, of the department of English 
in the University was one of the principal speakers 
at a luncheon discussion meeting of the Chicago Institute for Religious and Social Studies. 
His Holiness Pope Pius XII conferred .ihe papal honor of domestic prelate on Rt. Rev. Msgr. Loras 

T. Lane, according to an announcement by the 
Most Rev. Henry P. Rohlman, archbishop of Du­buque, Ia. Monsignor Lane is vice-chancellor and defender of the matrimonial bond ··in the arch­
diocese. 
1933 
Joseph D. A. McCabe, Rosary College, River Forest, Ill. 
From Joe McCabe: Dear '33s: Never saw such a group of bashful guys! 

Look, if you're too modest to write me about your· 
•elf, send a few words about the other ND's you !mow. (Then they may write about you, and we can fill this column with names instead of my type­
writer's aimless prose.) I do liave a few names this time for a change-not all '33s, of course, but in 
that neighborhood. The postcard program fell down, hut I met a few people and heard about a few more. Here's hoping the next column will do better. 
Introit: Thought I'd put the spiritual ahead of the factual this time-more as a reminder to myself than anyone else. November is the Poor Souls' month, and if you have the same trouble I used to 
have in remembering whose poor soul to remember, 
maybe you'd like to have a simple solution to the problem: offer all your .Prayers and intentions to our Blessed Mother and let her do the remembering. There's no one that can do it better! If you get· yawned off at all these plugs for the poor souls, and wonder why the aitch they can't take r.are of themselves, I've re-phrased a well· known· traffic safe­ty slogan to read like this: "Pray carefully-the 
soul you save may be your own." Not good, but 
maybe true. 
HEARSAYi Here's the result of a few chance meetings and conversations: Fr.ank (Francis X.) Fal­lon has moved into a nice spot-litigation chief for one of the nation's big corporations . . . Gc.-neral Electric, I think. Spike McAdams and Bill Kirby 
are getting ne\\'Spaper space out here in Chicago as representatives of Preston Tucker, the no-auto mag.. nate. 
Doing a swell job, too. This is no plug for the 

nation's biggest· former nickcl·a-copy magazine, but 
they did have a swell profile on Marchie Schwartz -a NDcr makes tradition at Stanford. Good luck, 1\farchie-hope you beat 'em all, except the home 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

team of course. Speaking of Schwartz brings to mind Nordic Hoffman-who at last reports is still! in Washington, representing the CIO. Talked with Tom (Kitty) Gorman shortly after the Tulane boffo. 
Kitty says he never saw any team anywhere explode 
the way this year's club did in the first quarter 
a1.tainst the· Suthners, sah. lle expressed his regrets, 
i.; which we joined, that it had to happen to Andy Pilney. But we were both consoled by the thought that it could have been worse-Andy could have been head coach! 
Kitty is Chica<:o zone sales manager of the Chevro­let Division of General Motors· •.. and is happy to be relieved of those Sunday morning blues connected with coaching jobs. Kitty has an eight-year-old daughter. Near him in Oak Park lives Martie Lin­
skey, who is in the advertising department of Sears 
Roebuck Co. in Chicago. Martie and Mrs. L. have four children. (His wife is a Rosary College grad, by the way-Adv.) 
Another NDer Kit•y sees. often is Joe Thesing, 
who is a district manager for Che\Tolet in Kitty'~ 1one. Norm Greeney met by chance in the Steven• Hotel not lon5 ago, is associated with an industrial 
heavy equipment firm in Cleveland. Chatted with Neil Hurley-wanted to get his opinion on the new movie, "Come To The Stable," as I· had heard Neil had just bought a horse. In common with a lot of other ChiAlumni, Neil's planning to attend the Iowa 

game. 
Speaking of Cl;cvrolet, Ben Salvatr just won one ·-7,000 contestants in a raffie, and they pull Ben's name! He's parking it outside his home in Alham­bra, CaliC. Ben is also a memb<r in good standing in the New Baby dub, as is Dick Roney. That makes four each for the Linskeys, Salvatys and Ro­
ncys. Dick is now eastern sales manager for the "Plant Production Directory," a Conover-Nast pub­
lication, and lives in Philadelphia. To wind the whole paragraph up, Ben is a West Coast repre­sentative of the Independent Pneumatic Tool Co. 
Another representative. of the same firm is Bill Shakespeare, who used to pass and punt as well as his namesake from Avon wrote plays. Bill recently returned from the Caribbean, and will soon head for the Middle East. Business ••. no Bowl games in either of those spots. Heard an interesting locker­room chuckle about Terry Dillon. Seems-Terry went to White Sulphur Springs recently to play a few rounds with his good friend, Sam Snead. (That's not the giggle-! understand they ARE ·good friends.) Terry got there bai(S, baggage and extra tcc<--only to lind Snead had left the day before. 
FORE! 
Us residents of River Forest saw Fred Snite's new bus rolling away for the south rccently-li..,t time Fred has gone all the way to Florida in it. We were speaking of parents-of-four up yonder: here's a top­
_per ..• Dr. Henry Asman, in Chicago to attend 
the American Surgeons' Convention, is a five-timer. 
Mrs. Asman gets her share of the credit ·for tne 
quintet too. of course. llenry does his surgeoning in 
Louisville, Ky. 
Jim lgoe is with Inland Lithographin~ Co. Jack Duffy ran a football special to the Purdue game from Long Beach, Ind. Ed Kelly is in the broker­age business in New York. Paul Host is with Wic­
boldt's stores in Chicago. "Goose" Gosselein is. in 
the hotel business in Aurora, Ill. Clayt Duerr lives in Hinsdale, Ill., and. is with Scars Roebuck. When you mention Ray Fox, you may safely think of the Fox Brewing Co.-and also, now the Patrick Henry Bu,wing Co., which I understand Fox has bought. 
Mea Culpa: After all my pleading for clas.matcs to write me, I have to publicly confess the sin of overlooking a communication in the Vital Statistics department. L..t Spring I got a notification from Cmdr. Bill lhwkes announcing the birth of Susan Marie: She'• of age now to snub me coldly f<>r such neglect, but I'll make this apolo~y. anyway-to her and her parents, Helen and Bill. Worst part of it is, her birthd~y's the same as that of my younger daughter, Erin-Fcb•. 20! 
Just got a letter from Bart O'Hara of Denver. He says he's going to be in Chicago in a few weeks 
-so perha!)s the next column will have· some news 
about Points West. Bart is lawyering in the Symes 
Building in Denver, if you're as anxious as we were 
to hear from him. 
Ray Geiger is in the novelty-calendar printing business in New Jersey.; Bud Gro\'es is with. the FBI, 




=------------------------------------------1 
.. 

Volume 2~. No. 6, November-December, 19'49 
and is it true that Ed Rhatigan is now managing a 
large convalescents' ·home in New York? Heard 
something· like that about Ed-and that it was a 
good spot. Heard also that John Maguire, of some 
years behind us,. is glad to be back in Aurora, Ill., 
after spending some time in Lake Geneva . . . the 
country life is· not for him, and he found business 
a little off up there. Pete Trolio is an architect, and Frank Prichacek. is with Universal Wine & Liquor Co. 'Ed Ryan is with the insurance plan division of General Motors. 'N that's all· for now, folks! 
One last ave before the vale •.• hope youse guys who started saying the Rosary daily during October will keep it up November, December, and always. It's like taking vitamins ••• it doesn't take long, doesn't taste bad, and there's a lot of unseen good gained by it! 
Theodore Buczynski, · Chicago, is a substitute teacher in the Chicago public high schools, and is 
preparing to take the teacher examination in Polish 
for the same schools. Ted received his M.A. in 
Polish from DePaul University -and an M.A. from 
the University of Chicago. 
Ed Sargus, Bellaire, 0., is now attending law school at Notre Dame and resides in South Bend , with his wife a-nd two-year-old child. They reside 
at 325 Lincoln \~ay West. 
John McNamara, director of personnel and pub­lications for the. school city in South Bend, gave the first in a series of talks before the local Catholic Forum. His subject was ':The Catholic Teacher in the Public School." The talks will stress the role of Catholics in different professions. Larry Stauder, '29, secretary of the Forum has announced that "The Catholic Home -and the Delinquent Child" will be discussed by a panel of Tom Tear­ney, '42; AI Doyle, '27; Anthony Kuharich, '35, and Dr. Sherman Egan. Aaron Huguen3rd, '22, will discuss "The Catholic in the Legal Profession" and Rev. Michaal Mathis, C.S.C., will end the series 
with a sum~ary of the obligations and opportunities 
of the Catholic professional man. 
1934 
Edward F. Mansfield, 6575 Glenwood, Chicago 26, Ill. 
From Ed Mansfield: 

"Mr. SRO of '49," Bob. Cahill, knee-deep in thanks and threats this snake-pit period at the football ticket office, won't like to hear this, but it does appear that we'll have to bugle for 
another· reunion at once. That's the only way vie 
can brin~ in another stack of news notes from men 
of '34. '. Chairman Cahill, can you hear us behind 
that pile of mail? 
Business at the mailbox has been bad since the last time page forms were locked gently around your obedient servant's prose. We are particularly 
anxious to hear from that part of .the roster absent 
·from_ the reunion and the mailbag. 
Through such divers devices as the Indiana and 
Tulane games, a convention .encounter, phone .calls, 
a trip to Louisville, and. a pair· of news letters, the following words have been lined up for you this · month: 
The two games brought not one encounter with 
a man of '34. Maybe Iowa and USC will bring 
'em out. Ed· Stephan, '33, "Scholastic" editor of 
our time, was about the only first cousin of '34 
to whom we gave the Father Farley salute. 
A Louisville trip did allow ·a pleasant chaLwith Carl Zimmerer, a journalism graduate actually still doing business as such on 3-to-midnight hours. 
Carl is~a ten·year veteran at the esteemed "Courier 
Journal," now resplendent in a plant that must be the finest in the land. He has a transferred South Bend wife and a two-year-old son, and reports that brothers Mark and Leo of earlier Classes are with Kingston Products in Kokomo. Carl reported a minimum of· activity with the fine N. D.· Club of Kentucky because of his night hours, but he had-­good words for their good works-particularly their trips to N. D. games for Louisville orphans. : 
Phone calls failed to reach Bill Veenemait, former golf team member now heading the George Gould wholesale-drug firm in Louisville. Bill's dad has been headlined frequently since the ·passing of Col. Matt Winn, Mr. Derby. Mr. Veenenian,-Sr., is now chairman of the American Turf Association and its co-run Churchill Downs group, and was fre­quently quoted during the selection period leading to Bill Corum's new job in Derbytown. 
At the first Bear-Cardinal game in Comiskey park, I almost bumped heads in the low Sox dug­out runway with R.3y Morrissy of Delavan, Wis. He was looking for the Bear dressing room, and such a veteran Sorin porch playmaker would undoubt­edly be loaded with x-and-o battle blueprints for guaranteed TD's. 
Welcome copy came from County Kennedy, area surrounding New Hampton, Ia., was penned by William J. Kennedy, Bunk the Barrister. He warned all traveling law men that he would come a-dustin' into Dallas for the SMU round-up. 
In the sports sections some few of you may read, 
you have no doubt seen that Jim Leonard has a 
"representative" team at . Villanova, and that 
Hughie Devore is doing well against a tough line­up of St. Bonaventure foes. A quick encounter with Jack Lacey didn't lead to any '34 news, but it did sho;v that Jack is busy 
'"'ith insurance, very happy with his new family, 
and keeping the lichens off his· colonel's wings with 
air reserve flying. The American Gas Association convention at the 
Palmer House led to pleasant tones from a voice long unheard. Owner of the voice: Stew Osborn, 
ex-New Yorker now in Shreveport with· the Texas­
Eastern Transmission Corp. (big pipe-liners). Sorin 
Stew is married, has one child, and has seen 
Frank Nary,. Judge John Logan, Jack Hagen, and Jack Quirk in the recent past. Smiling Stew looks good, likes Shreveport, likes his job. He also liked his lunch-a birthday meal. On the somber side, he felt that many of the class would be saddened to hear that his brother. Phidell, died last year. 
Dr. Robert Nachtwey, now on the Mayo staff, will undoubtedly hear from Stew's brother, one­year N. D. man now doctoring at Rochester, Minn. (Bob, how about news from medics Gannon, Gab­reski, Murphy, Tobin? See the reunion story for Kenney's latest). 
Osborn would like to play pen pal with Paul K3ne, Johnny Carr, and Bill Mackey as a starter. He's at 216 Arthur Drive, Shreveport, La. 
And now th~ Smiling Irishman! Last month, Jim Fitzpatrick was a big help with a fine letter from Paris (Seine et Oise, that is). Now another Fitz, Hugh Fitzgerald, brighten's the secretary's mail-less gloom with good copy from 2 Rector St., New Yuk-New Yuk. He reiterated his disappoint­
ment over missing reunion trips with Bill Sheils; 
Jim Reville, lhrry Burchell. The ex-Wrangler and suave debate master was last at Notre Dame in a popular type of blue and gold uniform in '44. He's now back with Coudert Brothers law plant after four Navy years. From here on it's body-type by Fitz-Hugh: "I had four full years in the Navy, from '42 to '46, and wound up in command of an LST in the Pacific. I remember meeting Dan Brick in Pearl Harbor in January, 1945••.. John Montedonieo at lwo Jima (light commander in charge of the Moore, a destroyer escort) • • • 
"Back here I see Tom Dalton once in a while­
although I'm ashamed to say not of late. You all 
know about his' condition, I'm -sure. Oh, yes,' I 
used to see him, too, in the old days. We spent many happy hours together in Miami in 1943. I saw Bob J,3ynes regularly in Miami while he \,·as 
iit training-but not a word since; Do you have 
any idea where he is? [We'd be glad to get an address for Bob; haven't had one for several years -Ed.) 
"About those three children-I married a wonder­ful Florida girl in 1942. She and the first two waited out the latter part of the war with her folks .in the land of sunshine. We have one boy, 5Y,, .a candidate for the Wranglers if ever I. saw 
one. 
"I am all talked out. You are doing an excellent 
job in your column; the "Alumnus" is well worth 
while. (I couldn't break up a fine sentence like that-Sec.) If you know of any nice small com­
munities that need a good lawyer, keep me in 
mind, will you? Crowds and commuting have lost their appeal-if they ever had any." That is a helpful letter. See how it's done, chums? As a reward for spelling out the words this far, 
here are new addresses for your Christmas cards. 
Use them for a letter, huh? · George J. Blaine, Butler High School, Butler, 
N. J•••. Emmett V. Conkling, 8421 Lock Raven Bh·d., Towson, Md. . • • , Thomas C. David, 126 
11 

·Hudson, Pineville, La.••• Russell J. Leonard, 37 Clonavor Terrace, West· Orange, N. J.•.. Nicholas P. Lukats, 5406Y, Franklin, Los Angeles. 
•.• John L. Ruppel, R No. 5 Box 465-D, Enchanta Vista, San Jose, Calif•••• C. F. Sausville, 302 Meeken St., South Orange, N. J•.•• John E. Tobin, 106 Lansing St., Madison, Wis. 
Don't forget to talk about yourself in writing to 
the ex·Sorin night watchman, now your message 
center chief. Where ·else can you write to 540 
classmates for three cents? See you 'round. 
Father Bernard Shanley moved from his post in Strool, S. D., to St. Patrick's Church in Lead, 
S. D. St. Pat's is the second largest parish in the diocese and has just recently opened a high school. 
J. Albert Smith, vice-president, trust officer and a director of the Fidelity Trust Co., was appointed a member of the Indianapolis Redevelopment Com­mission. AI has three children. · 
Clyde Lewis was on the radio "Town Meeting of the Air" on Nov. 8. The subject of his talk was "Should Communism be Outlawed in the United States?" As national commander of the VFW, Clyde was in South Bend and at Notre Dame for the Indiana game weekend. A glimpse of him was also caught at the North ·Carolina game in New York. 
Frank Reilly, '37 class secretary, reports recent contact with Dr. Paul Sartoretto of the W. A. Cleary Co., New York City. Frank and Paul work and reside in the same buildings. 
1935 

Franklyn C. Hochreiter, 1327 Pentwood Rd., Baltimore 12; l\ld. 
The mo!or is humming, the '"·heels are moving! 
Bill Ry,3n and Joe (Pat) Lynch were out to the 
campus in mid·Novcmber for a general discussion 
of 1935 reunion plans. They're the boys, you'll recall, who are going to carry the local burden for 
you. 

Bill and Joe went back to town pledged to get the reunion program all lined up, as to planning, that is, by the first of the year. Then, they'll start feeding you mailing pieces in early January. One of the first of these pieces will be a roster of the 
class, with current addresses, for ever)·body. 
Hochreiter got sunk in a sea of gold braid at the time of the Navy game in Baltimore-he's presi­dent of the Baltimore N.D. Club, you'll. remember 
-and hasn't been heard from since. But we guar· 
antee that he'll be dredged ·back into action for 
the next issue of the "Alumnus." ~leanwhile, carry 
on, especially by way of urging your special pals 
in the class to meet you at Notre Dame on June 
9, 10 and 11, 1950. Father Vincent Thilman, C.S.C., pastor of St. 
Augustine's parish, South Bend, ""·as elected presi­
dent of the Clergy Conference of the 1\!idwest on Negro Welfare at the recent semi-annual meeting held at St. Edward's parish, Cleveland, 0. 
john T. LaForge, Jr., has just finished as president 
of the National Renderen' Association. He has been in the rendering business for 20 years, associated 
with his father in the John T. LaForge Co., Free­port, III. He is also a director of the National Hide 
Association and has been president and director 
from the fifth regional area of that association for 
the past several year:;. 
1936 

Joseph F. Mansfield, 349 Weaver St., 
R.F.D. 4, 'Greenwich, Conn. 
Joe Schmidt is associated with the Greshoff Ad­vertising Agency, Inc., 406 East !49th St., New York 55. 
jack Joyce, formerly of Chicago, now resides at 6754 Richard Ave., North College Hill, Cincinnati 31, 0. 
Joe McGrath is teaching in the University of Washington in Seattle while workinJ for his doc­
torate. 

Pete Nemeth has resigned as supervisor of the vocational rehabilitation area of ·the state depart­ment of education and has opened offices for the practice of law at 201 Tower Building, South Bend. He has two children. 
Henry Pojman is personnel director for the Thor Corporation (electrical appliances), Chicago. 
1937 
Frank J, Reilly, 1651 Metropolitan Ave., New York City 62, N. Y. 
From Frank J. Reilly: Although mail has been non-existent of late-ap­parently the three cent stamp went out with gas rationing coupons-! have been lucky in seeing a few of the members of the class. They also passed on word of some of tlui others. Jack Gillespie of West­field, N. J., for instance, has been by a few times. He brought tidings of himself and others of our class­mates. Jack has just been appointed secretary of the United States Cuban Sugar Council, and is as­sociated with h·ey·Lee & T. J. Ross, New York publicity counsel. Jack had previously been with Merck & Co., Rahway, N. J., where he worked in the publicity department. Jack, as was mentioned earlier, lives with his wife and two daughters in their new home in Westfield, N. J. Paul Diagione was recently spotted on one of this city's streets recently. Paul having been transferred from the Chicago office of D.-ncer, Fitzgerald, Sam­ple to the New York headquarters of the firm. Paul thought the assignment \vas temporary but now finds he will be here permanently.· He is reported to have bought a home in nearby Englewood, N. J. 
Paul is continuing his work as a copywriter--on one 
of the soap accounts, I believe. 
Our ;\[r. Gillespie is also the source of some in­{orm.-tion on Paul Foley, another copywriter, or is it account executive by now? At any rate, the story has it that Paul, who is with MacManus, John and Adams, Detroit, is writing the copy for Cadillac ad­vertising, which is a most likely· place for a former 
41Scholastic" editor to wind up. 
Another recent visitor was Jack Walsh, who makes his home in this hamlet. John Judge, who has been with the Better· Business Bureau of New York since 1945, is ·living in Peter Cooper Village, New York, the abode of Vince Hartnett, among others. Jack is married and has a five-month-old daughter. He reports seeing Bill Foley, who commutes between his New York apartment and Washington job a.s coun­sel for the Small Business Committee of the House of Representatives. Another 'Vashingtonian from the class of 1937 is Joe Loftus. According to Jack 'Valsh, Joe is teaching at Catholic University, where he received his Ph.D. Jack told me of attending :Mass one morning .-t his parish church, the other two people present in the church being Vince Hart­nett and Mark Lonergan, who works in the neigh­borhood. 
Frank Carroll of printing ink fame recently was in South America on a business trip. He was to visit the cities of Cali and Bogota in Colombia, Lima, Peru, and Quito, Ecuador. The visit, I un­derstand, was to last about a month. I haven't had a chance to speak to Pinky lately, but I presume he is still living in Hasbrouck Heights, N. J. I be­lieve earlier in the year he visited Mrs. Carroll's home in Salina, Kans. · 
Father Joe English, about whose elevation to the "Maryknoll House in New York, you read in the last issue, called the other day. He seems to be doing vtry well, the promotion being taken in Joe's calm, modest style. 
Another of our classmates in the clergy, Father Cronan F. Kelly, O.F.M., whom you all remember as Bob Kelly of Pittsburgh, returned from his as• · signment in Rome earlier in the summer. We had a nice visit with him. He returned to Europe in mid­September, following an illness which had him con­fined to the hospital for about 10 days. 
o.; my way home the other night I ran into Ed Hoyt, whom I see too little of, even though he is a neighbor. Ed and family: one boy, one girl, are moving to Fairlawn, N. J., fairly soon. He told me he was completing his thesis {or his master's de­gree in business administration. Ed has been plug­ging away at night school pretty regularly since his return from service. His present work is with the export department of Vick Chemical Co. 
Vince Hartnett continues to do his free lance writing, I hear .-nd see. He's also added lecturing to his list of things to do, recently speaking in St. Louis, and scheduled to discuss "Reds in Radio" before one of the local councils of the Knights of Columbus. As I mentioned earlier Jack Walsh has put me hept to Vince's activities, since Jack and 
Vince are neighbors and see each other rather fre­quently. · 
Justin McCann is still in the trade publishing field, devoting most of his attention to the interests of "Home Furnishings Merchandising." I spoke with him on the telephone not too long ago. That lurch date we hope to have is still to materialize. 
On a golf outing during September I ran into Bill Huisking, brother of Ed and the late Frank of our class. Ed's whereabouts arc somewhat of a mystery to me, although occasionally I bump into him at drug, cl!emical or toilet goods affairs. 
Members of the class for whom changes of ad­dress have been recorded recently include: Rev. Wil­liam C. Kunsch, who switched from Chicago to Loras College, Dubuque, Ia.; Dr. Paul F. Mueller from 214 E. 45th St. to 4329 Park Ave., Indianapolis; Nicholas P. Romanko from Perth Amboy to 6 Rut­gers St., New Brunswick, N. J.; and Cyril Stroker from Baltimore to Box 775, Salisbury, Md. Cy, in­cidentally, still continues with Waterman Steamship Co., New York, and is doing very well the grape vine. ha.s it. Dr. Paul Mueller, mentioned above, made a quiet departure fro"m ·ihis city; the last I heard he was at Ne•v York Hospital. Maybe he will write and give us a full account of his present setup. 
Jack Hurley called on me one day during the sum­
mer when I was On vacation or out of the office at 
some affair, which is the last word I've had on the boy. He's still with G.E. in Schenectady. 
Herb Kenyon is representative for the Associated Hospital Service of New York with his office at 20 E'ast First St., Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Herb lives at 26 Tappan Landing Road, Tarrytown, N.Y. 
1938 
Charles l\1. Callahan, Sports Publicity Department, Notre Dame," Ind. 
With this issue, Charlie Callahan, publicitor ex­
traordinary and super t"raveler, takes over as sec­
retary for the Class of 1938 replacing Hal Williams, who is in Germany for the "Baltimore .Sun." Tak­ing a few minutes from his strenuous job of keep­ing the 1949 football team undefeated (up to now), Charlie says: 
Three liours hence, accor~ing to the emi­nent William . Dooley, managmg editor of this sheet, will be the deadline for all material to go 
into this issue. Therefore, dear classmates, you cari 
see that I'm no more ahead of mysel£ than I was almost 15 years ago when I used to be 10 minutes late to morning classes and five minutes .tardy to afternoon gatherings. 

For this particular issue, I am , merely going to write at random with the hope of getting enough copy to beat the deadline. By the time I have to write some jottings for the next isoue, the 12-15 hour a day routine demanded of one trying to handle the chores of publicizing the Notre Dame football team will be over • • • and perhaps I can produce a creditable column. I say "perhaps." The rest is up to you fellows. If you have some news, of yourself and others of the '38 brigade, send it to me at the Sports Information Office, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Meanwhile, we'll all say· a prayer that the noted journalist, Harold A. Williams, Jr., does not stay 
too long on his assignment as foreign correspondent 
in Germany for the "Baltimore Sun." His .. wife, whom I saw in Baltimore at the time of the Navy game, joins in this wish. 
You know, I'm really trying to be helpful to these Williams people • • • what between trying to take over this column for Hal and attempting to tell the nation's press about the quarterbacking genius of little brother Bobby. 
Since it is doubtful if any other member of our class has had a younger brother achieve the fame of Bob Williams, I will take a couple of lines to tell you about him. And a quick description, un­derstandable only to '38ers, would be to say that he's pretty much a carbon copy of Hal, except in physique and athletic ability. Bob has a bit of an edge in the latter two departments. It may be of interest to record Coach Frank Leahy's statement on Bob: "I wouldn't trade him for any college quarterback in America today." And remember that Hal's little brother has one more year of compe­
tition. 
Jack Zerbst, on a three-month vacation from llis position in Brazil with the Union Carbon and Car­bide Corp., was a campus visitor this summer. He's 
-
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

married to a girl from Bi>ltimore and they have one child. During the early part of the war, Jack· was in the · FBI and then finished up as a Navy 
officer. 
Out on the west coast, I saw Charlie Osborne, a la•vyer, Ed Tobin and Jerry Kane at the Washing­ton game. Charlie was general chairman of a com­bined Notre Dame-,Vashington alumni dinner the night before the contest and did a wonderful job 
on arrangements. Jerry, secretary of the club, was a 
member of his committee. 
Johnny O'Connor, Indianapolis, w~s one of, I 
imagine, many ,38crs at the Purdue game in La­
fayette, Ind. I mention John, now a prospering Indianapolis attorney, beci>use I saw him. 
The Sunday morning following the Tulane game, I saw Jim Carson, with the telephone company in Indianapolis, for a couple o£ minutes before grab­bing a train to Chicago. While in Chicago that day I bumped into Eddie Brennan, the old infield aspir­ant on Jake Kline's ball team. Eddie is now an advertising salesman in Chicago. He's one of the 
few single men left. Brennan has a. companion, )tow­
ever, in a fellow Chicagoan, Jack Anton. The Deacon is a bank vice-president and his office is in the Merchandise Mart. Since ·I'm talking about single men, I should mention Dr. Dan Mon3ghan, of Denver. I see Dr. Dan almost every weekend for he makes almost every game on ·the football schedule. 
Tom Gorman, the , old Badin Hall prefect, who 
is now another Chicagoan, .was a visitor with his 
wife at the Tulane game. Dan Gibbs, ex-pole vault­er and ex-Holyoke, Colo. (but now Chicago), was at the Notre Dame Club of Michigan City, Ind., gol£ party this summer. 
In New York, at the North Carolina game, I saw Bud Kolp and also Joe Callahan and his bride. Joe was married on the campus (Log Chapel) last spring with my wife and me as the attendants. I was very happy to help Joe along in taking the big step. He was very helpful to me during the years 1934-38. Some o£ you may recall that Joe was a 
"magna cum laude" student and it was my good fortune. in those classes in which the seating was 
arranged alphabetically to be stationed beside him. Many of you are knowledgeful of the fact that Leo Welch met an unfortunate death early in the war, when his bomber crashed in the South Pacific. Therefore, it will be of interest to class members to hear of the recent wedding of his widow, Fran­ces Lapp Welch, former St. Mary's girl, to a Frank Johnson, of Washington, D. C. The mar­riage ceremony was performed by the Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C. And that is that for this month. 
Bob Holtz is with the Martin ·Band Instrument Co., Elkhart, Ind. 
. Tom Radigan, Gary, Ind., was recently appointed police comissioner of that city. Tom is managing the family furniture store after finishing in law at In­diana University. He has four children. 
Frank Cosgrove is. teaching at" the College . of Pharmacy, Loyola University, New Orleans, and is doing work during the summer at the University of Colorado toward his Ph.D. He has just become registered as a pharmacist in Louisiana and has purchased part interest in ·a drug store in New Orleans. 
Way back on Aug. 10, Tom Sheils, 6000 Sun­set Blvd., Hollywood-28, wrote to Hal Williams as follows: 
"I recently returned from a flying trip to N. Y., Cleveland and Chicago. I had business in N. Y. and 
, Chicago, but my stop-off in Cleveland was for only one reason-to see old Hook Kerwin, his lovely wife, Alice, and their ·three children, two gals and one boy. Hook is fine. Still living there in Shaker Heights and still with. Thompson Products. It was good to see him again, and he gave me. a blow-by­blow account of the reunion last year which. I was unable to attend. 
"Saw Gene Vaslett here in Hollywood some time back. He looked good and has been living in La~ guna. He was planning to move ·up here to L. A. and was going to call me when he ·did. However, 
. I haven't heard further from him as yet.· "Ed Kavanaugh is doing a Jimmy Stewart on us and after all these years is taking uto himself a bride, a gal from South Bend whom I haven't had the pleasure of meeting as yet. The wedding will be on Sept. 3. I'm hoping to get back for the gala. affair. I know Hook is planning to be there•••• • "As for me I am still in the music business. I 
.. ..................................................
~ 
Volume 27, No. 6, November-December, 1S49 
have my own office now out here in suny California. 
It's what is known as a personal management set­
up. I handle The Modernaires, ·Clark Dennis and others. I'm not exactly getting rich, but as you may remember it's the kind of work I like and this California climate is great for my boys. Oh yes, I forgot to mention I have three boys, Tom, Jr., Peter 'and Johnny." 
1939 
Vincent DeCoursey, 1917 Elizabeth, Kansas City 2, Kans. 

From Vince DeCoursey: The response to last month's card appeal for news was not exactly overwhelming, but at least did draw some information that would have not been forthcoming without them, so when you get the little yellow card sit down that evening and drop us a line; without news there can be no col­
umn. 
First it is with regret that we received the news 
· from Bill Dooley that Carl Sabo had passed away, Sept. 12, at Riverside, Calif. The list of those in our class who have gone grows alarmingly' long and it might be a suggestion worth considering to have 
some sort of memorial service at the Communion 
Sunday in December for those who are no longer with us. 
From an old letter-writing_ acquaintance, Mrs. Tom Clarke of Des Moines (mother of Ed Clarke who was killed in the Pacific) we had a very wel­come letter a few days ago, with some much appre­ciated kind words. Mrs. Clarke reported that Ed's body was reburied in June with his brother, Father John Clarke, officiating and blessing the grave. There was a request as to the whereabouts of Jules Tons­meire, whose last reported address we have was 69 Kenwood Road, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y. 'Ve too would like to hear from Julie; there's a boy who really gets around. 
As an aside to those-wives who read this col­umn and wonder why there is no news 'of the hubby and his friends may we offer a little suggestion-. inspired through reception of a letter from Mrs. Carl Fricke, Jr. Carl is one of those who had com­pletely dropped from the sight of this column and glad it is that we can welcome him back home, although it took the time and trouble of his wife to resurrect l>im. Now for a little plea to those wives above mentioned-when you lind time (my wife chuckles) either prod the old boy or take pen (make him use a typewriter) and drop a few notes 
as to whete, what, and who. The more information 
the better-we need news. 
But back to Mrs. Fricke, a r~sident of 6340 Mid­dleton Street, Huntington Park, Calif. (someone asked for the address a few months agO)-who brings much in the way of information. The Fricke fam­ily ·has two future Notre Darners keeping things churned up. Carl is selling paper (Taverner and Fricke) and picking oranges. Dick O'Melia was on temporary duty at the Marine Air Base at El Toro and had dinner with the Frickes; Dick was at the ­time awaiting a foprth child and probably has that third daughter by this time. Dick is still practicing law. George Meeker, '40, has four sons (tie with yours truly), and is in business with the Meeker Land Co; Bob Kiernan is living at Corona Del Maf. Fred R. Stubbins, Jr., wife and three-year-old son are living in San Diego, where Fred is selling radio advertising. 
So much for this time. Let's get some information in-after the games this fall you certainly have had conversation with somebody, so let the rest of us know about it. 
John Sullivan announces the opening of his own law office for the practice of law at 832-835 Paul Brown Bldg.; 818 Olive St., St. Louis 1. 
Edwin Pick has collaborated with another lawyer and two members of the law faculty of the Uni­versity of Wisconsin· in writing a new book entitled "Wisconsin Practice Methods." The 1,400-page vol­
ume is a "how-to-do-it" manual, outlining proce... 
dure for meeting everyday legal problems in Wis­
consin. 
Jim Raaf was visiting at the University over the Tulane game weekend. He is on leave from his business with International Machinery Co., Bolivia, S. A., and is visiting in the country with his family. 
Bob Schirf is an engineer with the Layne-North­west Co., Milwaukee, where he is in charge of the pump division. He just purchased a new home and moved in with his family Nov. 1. 
Dr. Jim Johnson has opened offices for the prac­tice of medicine limited to orthopedic surgery and fractures at 620 Exchange National Bank Bldg., Colorado Springs, Colo. 
1940 

Robert G. Sanford, 1103 E. Kensington 
Blvd., Shorewood, Wis. 

Bob Sanford, recent father-again-writes that plans are perking merrily for the lOth reunion of the class on June 9, 10 and 11. In the next is­
sue of the "Alumnus" he will announce tentative 
plans for the weekend, the name of the local chair­man in South Bend and the personnel of various committees. It goes without 'saying that Bob will welcome volunteer assistance. Let him know that you will help, especially in the matter of rounding up attendance. 
And, right now, start writing to your special pals in '40, urging them to get together with you for the big weekend. This will of course be the first 
reunion of the class, since the war took away any 
possibility of a. five-year reunion in 1945. Start beating the drums! Paul Glass, Los Angeles mortician, visited the 
campus on Oct. 31. He is planning to return £for 
the reunion. 
Bob Mahoney and Jim Daskaloff, '49, have an­nounced the formation of a partnership for the prac­tice of law. They will have offices at 207 Poledor Bldg., South Bend. 
Bill O'Brien is vice-president of the C.M.A.C. Corporation, 50 Church St., New York City 8. Until recently, Bill resided in Chicago. 
1941 

John W. Patterson, Jr., 553.0 Rarlington Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Jerry O'Dowd, Fort Wayne, Ind., was chairman of the credentials committee for the national Young Democratic convention held in Chattanooga,· Tenn., Nov. 17-19. 
Don Tiedemann has a new position in the invest­
law division of the general counsel's office of the New York Life Insurance Co. in New York City. The Tiedemanns also announce the birth of their third child, a daughter, Ann, on Oct. 25. -John MacCauley and his wife were the Godparents. Don had run into Milt Williams and reports that Milt is with the Arabian-American Oil Co. 
Don is astive in the Glee Club of the New York ND Club, along with Dr. Bill Clark, '41, who, with Don, lives,in Tuckahoe, N. Y. · 
1942 

William E. Scanlan, Pullman Tr~t & Saving Bank, 400 E. lllth St., Chicago 28, III. 
From Scoop Scanlan: Hats off to the Class of '42. According to a re­cent survey conducted by Louis F. Bnckley, '28, our class topped all the others in the amount of news contributed during the six-year period-October, 1943 to June, 1949. 
Communications have been falling off a trifle but 
now that the post-war relocation, marriages, etc., 
have just about settled things, let's resume where we left off and get back into the swing of things, This record is certainly a tribute to all the '42ers; and Mrs. Lashbrook, for the faithful work during that period. So, let's hear from you all-the address is up yonder: 
Let's start off this issue with a. communique from Tom .Powers, now of the "Chicago Tribune" and you'll note he is apartment hunting: 
"Phoned Paul Neville tonight and he says he's holding up under the strain of railroad trips, pull­mans, Friday press parties, Saturday pressbox scram­bles and Monday quarter-backing on Sundays-all of which goes with his new job as sports editor of the "South Bend Tribune." ,No ulcers yet, but Paul 
13 

says he may get them from the many requests for tickets from classmates. Paul says his personal ticket allotment is no larger than any one else's, just enough to carry his own personal load. Visited Neville and his wife, Lil, at their new home on South Bend Ave. and got a look at Pete. 'Vasn't able to attend the christening but did Godfather to David Condon's Kathleen here recently. I thought I did pretty well through the ceremony and even transla:ed some of the Latin for the Godmother. 
"Neville tells me Dick LaJoi's brother was at the Indiana game. Misfortunately, I've been working football 'week-ends and missing the South Bend re­unions. Had a· wedding invitation from Eddie Hull' who was getting married Oct. 22 in West Allis, Wis. Met his bride-to-be at the Old Timers' game last spring. Missed a chance to have a party with Emmett Wright and Don Hogan and their Mrs. re­cently, but think my rain check is still good. Had dinner with John Homan and family recently. He didn't know we were in Chicago and it was-a case of word getting around and our finally getting to­gether. Each thought the other was still working in Pitt•burgh. John's working for Chicago Blower. Add similarity: John Specht stopped by the sports desk one day and asked me what I was doing here. I answered with the same question and it developed we've both been working in Tribune Tower for some 
time. · 
"Have had several calls from Dick McHugh from Manhattan. Missed a chance to accompany him to the Purdue game. 
"Saved the best item for last. Got myself engage<! and am apartment hunting. Getting married Feb. 18 at St. Adrian's. Her name is Irene Stachura. 
At the Chicago Notre Dame club golf outin~ some weeks ago I ran into Don Hogan, and Bill Hickey. Don said Willie Platt is studying engineer­
ing at Armour Institute." 
From Seattle, Wash., came an ·invitation from Rabbi Albert Plotkin to attend a wedding to Miss Sylvia Pincus. Sorry we couldn't make it. 
Looks like weddings are in order; I had a nice letter from the newlyweds John F. Dinges' who are now living at 253 Park Drive, Boston, :Mass. 
IN MEMORIAM Jane Pilarski, secretary to Bill Dooley, wrote that word had been received of the death of Francis E. Buckley, ex-42, of Saranac Lake, N, Y. He is sur­vived by his wife at 2 Charles Street in that city. We were sorry to hear that news and hope anyone in that vicinity will take the opportunity to pass on a word ofcomfort to Mrs. Buckley. 
In Davenport, Ia., there is a new accounting firm established ••• James Patrick Doyle and John Em­mett Keenan. They are located in the Davenport Dank Bldg. 
'Veil, the time is set for news from Mrs. Lora Lashbrook of the lawyers, '42 version: For the information of Mr. Scanlan and others, I have not been associated with the Notre Dame 
"lawyen" since last year, but since I have been 
invited to contribute to this issue, I shall add that news I have had, and say a fond "farewell'' to the "Alumnus" and the alumni at the same time. 
· I£ it is true that "no news is good news," then 
I may begin by reporting that all the lawyers of the 1942 class are highly successful. I telephoned the local barristers and they knew even less than I about their classmates, therefore the report will be short. 
Bill Rosinski reports that his house is full of feminine influence, and that it takes a full time practice to keep them going. He has two little girls. 
AI Cholis is still holding the whip over the local landlords and is doing some practice at the same time. He is still a handsome bachelor. 
Joe Miller is devoting full time to his teaching duties on the campus and doing a good job; I hear. The last time I saw Ernie Timpani he too, was 
"professoring., 
Bob Miller and Art Diamond have a flourishing practice. in South Bend in the Lafayette Building. Bob was married last June to June. 
Charles Cavanaugh is also in South Bend, asso­ciated with the Hartford Insurance Co: He was in­volved in the purchase of a new home the last time I saw hirit. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------u---------------------------~..~ 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Louie Anderson is in town, too, but I have not Toin McCarty, '44, now Frater 1\lalachy at the Butler, Leo Lewis, Jack Griffin, Bill Middendorf, seen him for months. Tom Tearney, on the other Trappist monastery in Dubuque, Ia.; jim O'Connor, Gail Fitch, Bernie Schroeck and Frank Kaiser. hand, has to bring in his money to the St. Joseph who attended Notre Dame from !\larch, 1946 to 
Lee Raymond has icft the 1.:1 Salle St. brokerageBank frequently in order to avoid overloading his. June, 1947, also is at the the monastery in Du­firm in Chicago for a transfer to South Bend, where
briefcase, and from my desk in the Trust Depart­buque, and Dave Barnes, here from November, 1945 
Itt: is on the sales force of Texaco. 
ment there I sec him quite often. He is thin, but to July, 1946, now is Frater Longinus at Gcthesc­obviously in good health. I wish I could think of mani Abbey, Trappist, Ky. 
Herb Melto'l was not the usual pcssimi.tic ex­
a Jot of supcrJath·es to use in my discussion of him peeler of one in the coaching profession. He' pre· because he is the executive officer at the local dieted a fair share of victories for his Irish fencing Naval Reserve Armory where my youngest is a 1943 team this season. Herb has joined the Notre Dame seaman. faculty as an instructor in accounting. By the time 
this bit reaches the readers the football season will
'Joe Barr, always good "copy," is \Vith the district John L. Wiggins, attorney's office in Wood River, Ill., and is the 2108 W. Fullerton· Ave., Chicago 47, Ill. 
be over, so it's safe tO say now that llcrb's wife, father of three, and soon will make it four. Mary Kay, is secretary to llerb jones, buSiness manager his ,,·ife, has been seriously ill with what was of athletics. 
Through the excellent efforts of Lou Buckley,

thought to be polio, but she is reported much im­, The deadline for the next column is December
alumni secretary, there has been an attempt made
proved no,,·. 15. How about marking down that date and drop­
to organize the class secretaries, with the hope of
I had a letter from Judge l\lcNerthney while I ping us a line here? Your friends would like to hear
having them produce ample copy for each issue. 
was in \Vashington this summer. Joe is practicing a \Vord about you.
Lou has gi\'en all of us tips on methods of procur­
in Seattle, and his address indicated considerable 

ing class ne,,·s. In reality, however, the success of
prosperity. Fred Hoover is also in Seattle with the John Powers gives the lowdown .on the North

the class column depends upon the contributors. For
firm of Clark, Stone and Hoover, in the Henry Carolina \Veekcnd in New York: 

Building. this issue I mailed two dozen postcards seeking in­formation and received but ONE reply. Not a sharp "The pre-game rally at the Biltmore Hotel on Tom Mills is practicing in Wisconsin, and John percentage. Friday night was packed to the chandeliers. My wife Halleck is living and practicing in Bowling Green, and I arrived in the company of Paul .Neville, '42
We would like to ask that when you receive such

0., and has been teaching part time in the Uni­sports editor of the "South Bend Tribune," 'c;
a card you answer with another postcard with in­
versity there. John and Virginia have three lovely tJonegan, '43, and Jim Ferry and Joe Lane of '42.
formation about yourself or any others of the class.
children. Cy Donegan is just getting acquainted on his new Here are the ligures to prove just how simple a job, that of selling advertising space on the new
Mike Hines spent the past months in Las Vegas, task this should be: if I should contact 20 men per "Flair" magazine, due out in January, 1950. \VeNev., but is back in Indiana now and is reported to hsue, you v.oould have to pause only a couple of spotted a lot or the boys around the various tables,be locating here permanently. W c hope so. 

minutes every two years to send a postcard. 1\ly among them Don Heltzel and his wife, all the way 
Bob Uhl iS in law school and is due to graduate immediate sources of information are limited· to , in from Ohio; Bill Herzog and Tom McCreedy,. next year. Jim Neu is now head of the legal de­classmates in the Chicago area. For that 1·easori both '43, up from Baltimore and Bill 'Valsh, '43, partment of Columbia Broadcasting System in Wash­, you may read some namCs more frequently than formerly of Mineola and now in Levittown. One ington, and is living in Alexandria, Va. others. This is not by design; I cannot write about table was turned over to FBI men exclusively and 
tho~c from whom I have no information. · one good time: Tony Ma­
every of them having a Jerry O'Dowd made the headlines a short while loney, Frank Conforti,· Ollie Hunter, Bill Tracy.· 
ago when he was sent to a national convention of And so, brethren, ends the sermon. Don't forget! 
The Bureau can be proud of them. Bill Tracy's
Just two minutes each two years. Thank you!
young legislators. Jerry is now Representative brother, Joe Tracy, was happy too, having just
O'Dowd and we will doubtless hear from him for finished his law work at Columbia U. and readying

INDIANA GAI\IE NOTES Bill Lower and Dick Hall came down from Gary, a long time in political circles. to leap the bar exam. 

Cecil Jordan is a G-man in Cleveland, 0. I saw "Down another aisle, I bumped into Frank·Kunk­
Ind., for the game. Bill is with Sears, Roebuck &
Cecil and his wife in Washington last Easter Sun­el, '43, talking with Dick Murphy, '42, both of
C"., Dick with Gary Wholesale Grocers. Dick's cou­
day morning, but they rode away before I could them from Forest Hills. Frank is working for his
sin, Bob "Buck" 1\.fuellman, was married in Danville,
say "hello.'' Ph.D. at Columbia U. these days. . 
Ill., to Miss Lynn Hughes. Lowrr said that John 
"After the game was over on Saturday (and whatLeo Linck is married and practices in Michigan. Bosak is selling Plymouths and Chryslers at Bosak a game it was) it seemed that half of the stadiumGerry Feeney and George Stratigos are law partners Motors in Gary,. that George Carberry is in rcsi~ converged on the cocktail party and rcccp:ion atin South Bend. Gerry is prominent in local drncy at Mercy Hospital, Chicago, and that Bob 
Democratic political circles and George was the New York Athletic Club. Everybody was hungry
recent­

Lennertz is .selling pharmaceuticals. 
after yelling their lungs out for the team to come
ly named commissioner for the Federal Court in· South Bend. Both are married and look prosperous. Bob Collins of Collins Excavating Co., Blue Island, from behind and beat the Rebels, and a tray of Ill., was at the game and reported that he saw Bill 
hors d'oeuvres disappeared in no time. There I 
Jim and !\like Godfrey are practicing in Illinois, bumped into Bill 01\'any, '43, another Forest Hills probably in Litchfield. Dean Manion repor:ed on resident just moved to Bayside. Bill was accom­
Kinney at Mucllman's wedding. Bob said that Jack 
Dugan was now in 1filwaukec with the Carnegie·
them after the American Bar Association meeting panied by his very beautiful wife, Dolores, and they
Illinois Steel Co. Jim Delaney told me in the stands
in St. Louis and he tells me they arc both ful­told me of two children at home. Bill Johnsoin and
that he had left San Francisco to work in Grand
filling all the promise they showed in Law School. Jim Cooney, '43, walked up with a drink and I
Rapids, Mich., with a die-casting concern. San
Tony Girolami is still in school but will graduate • learned that Jim Hubbard was about the premises,
Francisco lost Delancy, but gained as a citizen. Jack
in the spring of 1950. too. Jim Cawley, . '40, came ·along with Father
Tallett who moved to the coast city the week follow­
Simonitch, C.S.C., whom I hadn't seen since grad­Bob Sinon is with White and Sinon in Ottawa, ing the Indiana game. His bon voyage wishers at uation, and I heard' that ·my· brother, Father JoeIll. I have failed completely in my promise to get Gate 14 were .Bob McKee, Lee Raymond, Ed Roney Powers, C.S.C., may be back on the campus next 
some information about !\like Stepovich for the and Pete 1\fontz. year.boys before my "retirement." Bill Hosinski and I spent a considerable time this morning recalling Bob Kuipers nailed me after the game to tell me "It wa~ a w_ild and wonderful weekend, Jack, and all of 1\like's good qualities and wishing for some that Bob "Red" Lonergan was married Sept. 22 in hope I vc giVen you a small idea of some of the 
guys in it."
current information as to his whereabouts. If Mike · the Log Chapel. Bob said that he had seen Jack sees this, I do hope he will get in touch with Specht who was in the Advertising Department of some of us. the "Chicago Tribune." Saw Dick Creevy as he Jim Delaney, formerly of San· Francisco, is now In an effort to confirm Cecil Jordan's address, I 
rushed to his scat, and understand that Harry located in Grand Rapids, Mich., at 347 Brian~ood. 
O'l\lelia was at the game, though I'm sorry to say told me that her son, Barney, is ·working for the 
talked to 1Irs. Bannon, Patricia's mother, and she 

that I didn't see him. 

1944·
Great Lakes Distributing Company out of Fort 
FROM THE MAIL BAG

Wayne, Ind., and Mark is in Minneapolis, Minn. William F. Talbot,The lone reply to the postcard plea came -from
I shall be in the bank for some time to come, 

300 Main St., White Plains, N. Y.
George Blackmore: "Hope this gets to you in time . is: Rockport, Ind., R. R., care of Elizabeth Day. From Bill Talbot: · 
and for any one interested, my permanent address 

for the next issue. I am now in business for my• 
The latchstring will always be out for any of you, self, selling insurance and trying to build my own and perhaps some of those thousands of cups of agency, the George H. Blackmore Agency, 15 Smith­Merry Christmas! 
coffee that I have consumed at your expense may field St., Pittsburgh, Pa-lirc, automobile, and mis­. And now :that we've neatly disposed of that, there be r<covered; Goodbye. cdlaneous lines. Haven't seen Bill Murrin for some IS more sahent matter at hand dished up by our time. I believe he is still going to law school in Cleveland informer, Tom Brem:r. He reports that
It's brief, but it's about '42ers. Let's have more. 

Pittsburgh. The N.D. club of Pittsburgh has a other lads duly enrolled in the local alumni chapterREMEMBER, IF IT'S NEWS, WRITE SCOOP. 
luncheon each week at "Dutch Henry's" and I· plan are Bill Mulligan, Jack Doyle, Creighton Mi'ler,
IF IT'S ABOUT YOU-IT IS NEWS! 

to attend •oon and perhaps get more informatron and Dick Hackman. So if you ever get stuck in for you." Cleveland-and that's \vhat you do when you're in Neil McCarty was awarded a Bachelor of Laws In response to my request, John Powers,' of Inter­Cleveland: get stuck-then you can look up " couple 
degree from Harvard University on June 23. John national News Service, will send us a report on the of the lads above. Burgess received a Doctor of Philosophy degree from pep rally preceding the North Carolina game in Since we do not have much copy fo~ the column Ohio State University on Sept. 2. Yankee Stadium. We hope that Bill Tracy will this time-due to a rascally disinclination on the 
Alike Chrr is now assistant sales manager for supply information, also. part of classmates to write-we would like to quote Paper Art Company, Inc., of' Indianapolis and New most of".Tom's informative letter, being careful, of York City. TULANE GAME NOTES course, to emend those jolly, earthy expletives which 
Practically all those mentioned as being present might otherwise impair the high tone of-this hereFather Simonitsch writes that Vic Assad has join­
article:
ed the Trappist order in Georgia and is now Fra­at the Indiana game were on hand for the Tulane ier Peter. Also in the Trappists, Father says, is spectacle, and in addition there were these: Charlie "Creighton Miller, besides practicing law on his 
'_r-/ 

Volume 27, No. 6, November-December, 1949 
()WDJ and being assistant attorney general for the 
State of Ohio, is also broadcasting football games over station WERE in Cleveland. 
"Then there's Jack Doyle who is looking· for peo­ple who want to invest their millions. He claims he -can triple your money overnight. · 
"Bill Mulligan is still slaving for Fisher's Foods here in Cleveland and planning to get married some 
time in the near future. 
"Dick Hackman is working for Hackman Leather and doesn't do much more than [EMENDED]. "As for myself, there isn't much news. Still try­ing to get a few· clients into my office, but I broke 
my Jasso and there '"·ent my clients." Tom, as you may have supposed, is an attorney. 
That address in Cleveland is: Leonard Frost, Attor­ney-at-Law, National City Bank Dldg. 
From out \Visconsin way comes more good news. 
Bill Bodden has married and taken off weight. Or . vice versa. It's hard to tell in a case ilke that 
which comes first. Anyway, writing from his new 
I'" address ·of 112 Juneau St., Horicon, Wis., Bill re­ports that he is a real estate broker and solicitor agent for the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co., and that he will probably tic in his law prac­
tice with these duties in the near future. 
Bill reports that Larry Lenz, a fellow lawyer, lives nearby-(which couldn't be far in Horicon), and that Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. O'Neill, '40, have just borne a bouncing baby boy by the name of Brian. 
By a bit of indirect inve.stigation we have also 
discovered that Bill is doing much better than he may let on. For he has achieved two high civic posts, as director of the Horicon Athletic Association and secretary of the Chamber of Commerce. 
Word from another lawyer on another front: ,Attorney Bill Kelly is "bubbling over with opti­
mism." And in the excess of his exuberance he has 
deigned to drop us a 'line-an act which this column appreciates -~-o end. To wit: "About the middle of last June, Tom O'Connor 
spent his honeymoon on Nantucket, a'nd on his re-· 
turn spent two days with me on Cape Cod. I was down with my parents at the time. He has his own advertising business in Chicago, and was doing rather well. However, have not seen hide nor hair of him 
since. "Just recently Frank Grover spent some time in 
Lowell with his wife, and I spent an afternoon ·with him. He's a salesman for a furniture firm in Elk­hart. Same old Frank•••• 
"Frank took his wedding trip through the South, and stopped off in your old home town of Louis­ville to see Jacques Veeneman. Believe they stayed the night: and hashed over old times. Said Jack had two children now and a Scotty dog. He's with the George H. Gould Co." 
Dlessings on all guys like Jack Collins. He keeps us all posted on the fellows who entered Notre Dame in 1941 and graduated in 1944. He supplies 
, us, for instance, with information about Bill Grafe, 
now:. a chemical engineer in Cincinnati. Bill an­
nounced hiS engagement in August and was married 
at a formal wedding on the 23rd of November in Cincinnati. Also a word about Dick O'Hearn, who recently completed law school at the University of· Cincinnati, and-\vho has already passed the Ohio 
bar examination. 
As for Jaek himself, he's still working as a 're­
search engineer for the Union Carbide Corp., Niag­
ara Falls, N. y; His home address up that way is 
729 Townsend Place. 
Another lawyer. This time it's the old reliable Glee Club man and academic record breaker, George Rariscillo. Here from George: 
"I'm leaving for Trenton tomorrow morning (Oct. 12), and I'll be there for the next couple of days taking the New Jersey State Bar Examination, so 
you can imagine the hectic time' I've been having 
the past months boning up for the event. As you know, I completed my law studies at Notre Dame la.t January. Since that time I have been serving a law clerkship (required by N. J. law) with one of New Jersey's superior court judges in Jersey City. 
It's been a mo~t interesting experience. 
"L'ast month I attended the N. D. Club of N. J. (Welcome Party) for the incoming Frosh from this sti'te. It .was held in Newark and on hand to greet the new members of the Notre Dame family were such stalwarts from our class as Frank 'Gigs' Gior­dano, John Bright, and Bill Waldron, among others. Father Frank Gartland, was the principal speaker, 
and he gave a very interesting and amusing account 
of his early days at Notre Dame, and concluded his 
remarks with some very worthwhile suggestions to 
the new men of Notre Dame from N. J." And finally we have a treat for all the old gang, 
a communique from Francis j. Sanfilippo. "Flip," as he was better known as in them days, has this 
to report anent the North Carolina post-game con­
fab: 

"Just. talked to Dick McCabe on the phone and he too thinks the idea is wonderful. As you probably noticed in the ALUMNUS Dick was recently en­
•gaged to a South Bend girl. At present he is in his father's law office here in Poughkeepsie. 
"I am with Remington-Rand here in Poughkeep­sie, in the Systems division. After finishing at N. D. in August '47, I started selling in the field and final­ly transferred here in May of this year. • • • By 
the way, if anyone is interested-it has never been 
announced in the ALUMNUS-I have two of the prettiest and smartest girls that ever rooted for N.D. 
"Andy 'Bull' Murphy is recreation director for the city of Kingston, which is just across the river up here. Nick Amato, after teaching at N. D. for 
a couple of years, is now up at St. Bona\·enture in 
Olean. The last time I heard from him, Lou Horn­ing was helping his dad in Tarentum, Pa. Lou and his .wife, Florence, have a future halfback for about· 1967. . 
By the way, do you, or anyone else, know the whereabouts o£1 Gene Carney? That ex-roomie char­acter of mine has eluded me for too long now and I figure it is about time for me to give him his periodic 'taking down.' 1\Iaybc this will rouse' him a little.'' 
"Flip" also sends a personal riote of congratula· 
tion to John Lynch for his wonderful success in the literary field. 
One point in "Flip's" letter is disturbing. He re­ports that, though he is listed as '48 in the ALUM­NUS, Dick McCabe's loyalty is still with '44. Now it would be nice if we would all sit down and take a good deep breath and listen: Anyone who gradu· ated in 1944 or who, during any period of his scho­lastic life, intended to graduate in 1944, may by this very fact denote it as his class. It is entirely a mat­ter for the individual to decide. The Alumni Office does not want to appoint any gradu.. tes to a cla55 which is not of their choosing. If you are repre­sented as being a member of a class other than '44, and wish to change; or if you are listed as '44 and wish to change to another class, then simply drop a post card to me or to the Alumni Office. 
There's a bit of news out our way, too. Herb 
Gans, '42, and Jim Quinn, '36, both local West­chester lads, put their heads together and came up with an enormously successful benefit for polio at the Coveleigh Club, Rye, N. Y. Jim was one of the principal sparkplugs of the venture, which drew statewide attention. It happened that all three o£ 
Jim's boys were stricken this summer, one of them 
seriously. It is good to report that all are now well, and recuperating rapidly and happily. 
At the Notre Dame Club meeting in New York 
in October were "Black John" Murphy, John Duffy, 
Jack Kelly, Frank Kunkel, Chuck Koegler, Tony 
Earley (an apostate who has switched to another ·class), and several late arrivals whom I didn't get to meet. 
Thanks to the special indulgence of Alumni Sec­retary Bill Dooley, we are able. to· overstep the press deadline and bring you a hurried and par· tial. account o£ events over the North Carolina weekend in New York. 
Headquarters' for the Notre Dame crowd was the Biltmore Hotel where, on Friday evening, the rally­
reunion entertainment got unden\'ay, featuring the 
singing o£ the sensation of television and Broad­way, Kyle Macdonnell-whom, if you ain't seen yet, 
what have you got eyes for? 
Up there real close to the ringside were Jack Kelly and Tony Earley on one hand, and Frank "nylon-is-so-good-to-my-skin" English on the other. Frank and Helen confided that they and baby now make five. 
Paying the bill at the same table were· Jack O'Neill with a pair of lovely. girls; Andy Barbiere, with a girl whose name and phone number I didn't get; and Dave Garroway from Chicago, alias Byron Kan3ley and his wife, Sally. 
Bernie Bowling never misses. lie was there, and 
so was his old side-kick, Jim Mahoney. Ditto Jack Whitely, who has taken on the stature of Leon Hart. He's that bbbig and robbbust! Bill Boss fi­nally showed up to give us all a glimpse of his charming young wife. Joe Pons and Joe Gallagher also showed-the old equalizers. 
or course you know how the game went the next 
day. Immediately afterwards the Notre Dame crowd squeezed into the New York Athletic Club. Your correspondent had to miss all but the last !1alf hour of the festivities, and probably missed most of 
the fellows. Dut those we saw and welcomed were 
as follows: Chuck Patterson and his wife, together with Chuck Pickhardt; Bill Carey, who is finishing at Harvard Business School; Ted Weber (and wife) and AI Sommer together; a jovial group anchored to the bar, including John O'Hara and Ed Keelan; another group was composed ·or Jack Sullivan, Red McCafferty, and Bill Rodgers-at which point we bumped into lawyer-at-large Joe Patrucco; the Ed Dowlings and John Murphys, who later went off to dinner together. Several others who, though they 
are not members of our class, are popular enough 
to be remembered:Father Simonitsch, Paul Lillis, Jim McVey, Paul Tafel, Bob Sass, and the mighty mite, Greg Rice. 
Jerry Brown, Ed Monaghan, Charlie Koegler, Jim Sullivan, and John Duffy made the Wednesday night New York Club meeting and presumably attended the party, though we are sorry to have missed them there. 
At the Commencement exercises on June 23, Har­
vard University awarded master's degrees in busi­
ness administration to Vince Bitter, John Hickey and Fr.:mklin Eck. Joe Neufeld was a patient at the Hickory Grove 
Sanatorium, \Vest DePer!!, \Vis., but was to undergo 
a series of operations at Columbia Hospital in Mil­waukee. Pray for him, and keep mail going to him. Letters can be addressed to his home, 'Vhitney Road, P. 0. Box 17, Green Bay, Wis. 
Emmitt Jennings, Queen of Angels Hospital, Los 
Angeles, was in Chicago for a medical convention. 
Emmitt sat in as team physician for the Los An­geles Rams while Bob Snyder, former N.D. back­field coach, was at the helm o£ the Rams last 
season. 

Jack Coleman reports an address change; he is now working in New York City for the Coleman­Pcttersen Corp., 521 Fifth Ave. He lives in Ber­genfield, N. J. 
Ed Allendorf is an accountant for the Red Star Yeast and Products Co., 221 E. Buffalo St., Mil­waukee 1, Wis. 
John Zwicker, recently married, reports a change of address from Appleton, Wis., to New York City, where he represents the Zwicker Knitting Mills of Appleton. His office is at 303 Fifth Ave. Call him ­there. 
Vail Pischke announces the opening of his pri­vate law offices at 724 Ninth St., NW, Washington ·1, D. C., for the general practice of law He is 
a radio consultant. 
1945 

James W. Schaeffer, 7516 N. Hoyne, 
Chicago, III. 

Don't forget the five-year reunion, June 9, 10 and 11, on the campus. Details in the next issue. Start now to get your pals lined up for the big weekend. 
Ed Faust writes from Columbus, 0., where he and his wife reside at 877 Gladden Rd. Ed has re­cently taken a new job. 
Ted Weber reports a recent move from General Electric in Bridgeport to McGraw-Hill in New 
_York City, where .he is news editor for uEiectrical Merchandising.'' The Webers. have found a fine apartment at 68 Beardsley Park Terrace, Bridge­port 8, Conn. -.. 
Bill Whalen is settled in California at 4302 Grant, Fresno, and took his California bar exam in early October. . 
Ray Mazza is a medical student at Jefferson Med­ical College, Philadelphia, and will graduate in June, 1950. ' 
Bob • Morrissey made his simple profession as a Benedictine monk, and member of St. Bede Abbey Peru, III., July 11. He is known as Frater Dunstan' O.S.B., and is teaching modern l1istory. ' 
Art Connors was awarded a master's degree in 
t 
business administration from Harvard University ori 
June 23. _, 
Ed Kelly was the principal speaker at a football 
rally held by St. Anthony's Catholic High School, 
Fort Lauderdale, Fla., in October. ­
John "Tree" Adams, Washington Redskins tackle, 

is an automObile salesman in the off season. 
Pa't Fi~her, '35, 616 Indiana Trust Bldg., Indian~ apolis, writes that he is holding a Notre Dame ring, marked "R.G.K., '45." The ring, found some yea~ ago in the vicinity of Union Station, Indianapolis, was only recently turned over to Pat. He will be glad to hear from anyone claiming .it. 
1946 
John K. Stewart, Nolan Motor Co.; Garden City, K:ins. 
from Jack-Stewart: Word h~s i-t that Charlie Clauss and Ed Fisher were going to attend the Michigan-Army debacle· {I can say it now)· at Ann·Arbor. 
Elmer "BUC:l" Angsm3n got off on another ~·uccess­
lul season· as a star· in the Chicago Cardinal back­field. Tom Burns writes from Clovis, New Mex., that he and his brother, James F; {Notre Dame: 1935-37), 
are continuing their father's real estate, insuraitce,~ 
loans and· abstracting business. Tom says that ·_he plans to take in the ND-SMU game in Dallas, and then asks: Can anybody help {get more tickets?)?__ He says that Rudy Lopez is married. .. 
· From Madison, 'Vis.,. comes word from Charlie Bartlett barrister and .member of the attorney gen-­eral's staff there. He . thinks that he may be in private practice next year:-in Cuba City, Wis. He says that Bill Schmid "was working for his father's Crescent Electric Supply_. Co., and seemed to be liappy and doing well." .. 
It is rumored th:.t Art Mosher is somewhere in•his New Hampshire hills. Doing what or with whom is. unknown: possibly chewing betel nuts. 
En route from· 'Vashington, D. C., I met -Jack Tenge in Kansas City;. He has· left the advertising post in his lather's company and is director of pub· lications at Rockhurst College in Kansas City. · 
Let's hear from -some of you, Navy as well as civilian graduates. Don't be bashful: we're all in·· terested in what you've done, are doing, plan to do. 
. . 
Bill Young is a· student at the· Colorado S~hool of. Mines in Golden 'Colo. Bill's home: is at 595 Longwood Ave., Glencoe, Ill. 
1947 
Joseph D. Usina, 219 S. Scott St., South Bend, Ind. 
From J.D. Usina: Saw Andy McKay o.f Algonq.;in, Ill., who is now in South Bend as a field undenvriter lor !\.{utual Life of New York. He passed along the following news: Jack Freem.w, Mishawaka, Ind., is with Gen· eral Mills in a sales capacity; Tom Egan, Torring­ton, Conn., is employed by. Brodbeck Trucking in Detroit in sales promotion work; Jack Dee was in town for the Tulane g:.me. . ' Talked to John O'Brlen who is in the Trust De· partment of the St. Joseph Bank here in South Bend. According to·John,-Luke Newbold is assistant physi­cal education director and football coach at Madison School here, and Tom M.anuszak, '48, is with the Indiana and Michigan·Electric Co. . Among those here in South Bend to see the N.D.­Tulane game by Bob Snee's count were Bob. Cronin, John· Lavery, ·Bob Erkins, Paul Heiman ancl ·John Caron. It was_ rumored that Fl'3Ilk Gilligan -was also around but that was hard to verily. John Hosbein writes from Glencoe,-Ill., that he sees·John Horrigan, recently ·a father, occasionally. Bob Brown is teaching E.E. in North Dakota.· John says he is working ·in his father's plant' at Aurora and keeping busy. 
'I. 

. Had ·,:.card that Dr. John ·B; Meyers is lOc:atcd at 2310 Fortieth l'lace, N.W., in ·Washington. 
Bud Cotta and Bob Erkins are, as this is written,­to· be married in the next few weeks~ Will save the details for later. 
As for your corresp~ndent-I .am witl1 the Lincoln 

J. Carter advertising agency here ·in South Bend, which was formed \vhen the old· agency of Carter,­Jones· and Taylor was reorganized. ·We have offices " in the Sherland Building and· I would like to see members of the class passing through South Bend. Maybe it will be easier to extract news in ·a· face· to-lace meeting. 
. Bob Rosenth.:U. received a bachelor of science de· gree in chemical engineering from· Washington· Uni­versity, St. Louis, in June, 19-!9. Bob is now work­ing for the Process Engineering and Equipment Co. 
as a sales engineer. 
Joe DeMuro is . teacl1ing accounting' in St. Ed­ward's University, Austin, Texas. ­
Dennis Stark is the new assistant physical di­rector of the South Bend Y.M.C.A. He is tlie father of two children. 
Dick-Prosche is ·an engineer with the Schutte· 

Kocrting Co., 12th and Thompson Sts., Philooelphhi 
22. 
Frank Szymanski, in his filth season in the Nation­

al Football League, was purchased-by the Chicago 
Bears alter ·four years with the Detroit Lions and 
Philadelphia Eagles. 
~{aster'S degrees in Business Administration were 

awared by· Harvard to the following: Paul Ames, 
Jack Alexander, Frank MacCauley, Ted Oppen· 
heim and Forrest Watson. · ~ · 
A grim, but smiling and courageous,· fight is be· ing waged in St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, by Jack Miles, son of Frank,''22, who in Septem· ber was .hit down by' polio. In· an iron hing ,ever since, Jack is still in critical . condition .as.' this ds ­written. ·Pray for· him, for his family and for his fiancee, Beatrice Marie -1\!achek, to ·whom· he was to have been ~arried on Sept. 17. 


·1948 
Herman A. Zitt, Foundation Office,· _ Notre Dame; Ind. 
From Herman Zitt: 

A number of '48 men have· not sent in their •49 contributions to the Notre Dame Foundation. Thus far we · wouldn't get· much of a room ·for. the $2,844.00 contributed by 339 '48 men. The average this year is above expectations, $8.39 as compared· to· $4.24 last year. But we need a ·contribution from 
everyone, n<:-matter how small. 
· In passing from the unpopular to the popular I am glad to report' th:.t there is some news 'about our cla.smates. From the Warren Kanes comes· a report that they. have moved from Olean, N. Y;, ·to Tulsa. 'Varren is still working for Clark Bros. Be· lore leaving Olean they spent some time with the· Rob· Logan's, who have two swell kids and a nice home. Bud O'Reilly is working for EBASCO Ser· · vices in New York City {and still single). The Ber• nie LaLon:s are !iving in Pontiac, Mich. The_last­report from Joe Fitzgerald has Joe working in In· dianapolis. 
John Taylor is working for th~ Blind 'commission in Massachusetts.-The Charlie Owens, -now· living in Rockingham, N. C., reported the .birth of-a daughter on Sept. 27. Charles Ebner-just started his. sophomore year in medicine at ,Wayne Univer· sity, Detroit•. John Zarante is busy .with his own accounting firm in Chicago {two · •mall Zarantes now)•.John and Jean were down for -the Indiana game. Joe and Luella Dues spent the Tulane week­end with us {two <mall Dues also) • 
Hal Tehan. has acc~pted a position hi the legal department of the Haggar Co. in Dallas•. Hal for· merly was Father Sweeney's right hand man. Frank Robinson . belongs to the same Naval Reserve bat· talion as I do. Jim Ferstel will finish his law work here in January. Lou Bums and Jim Grilfm were down for the Tulane game. Lou is raising dough for the Hoover ·Plan in New York City., Jim is working for an advertising concern in ·Chicago. 
Fr.ank Tripucka has 'jus~ b~d,~o t;>e Detroit 
Lions squad. · · · 
Dan. Barlow is now living in Duanesburg, N.Y., 
Dick Brose in Mt. Lebanon, Pa. Tom Foley is .working for DeCoursey's Dairy, Oklahoma City. 
Bill Greeley, having left' Vetville, is now Jiving in 
Buffalo', N.-Y. Paul Jackson is in Indianapolis, John 
Mabey in·. South San Francisco, and John McGroder ,) 
in Wickliffe, 0. ·.Vic Neal has moved to .Brookings, 
S. D. Paul Pandolfi is .living in Wilmington,. Del., 
.... q 

and Dave Ardito has. moved to College Station, 
Texas. . .. 
Bill Comstock is" now living .in-_ Sp.ringfiel<l, Ill., '\ Bill Ethridge· in Alliance, 0., and· Dan Fessin in Utica; N; Y. ·Bob Kuehl has moved to. Ne'~ York \ City, Tom Kiley'is'i10w with-Bendix in South Bend, and Tyrell Miller is living in Detroit.· ·John ·Me­SILane. is ·in Law School• at Notre Dame. Bernie 
,, ~: 

O'Hara has inoved to Augusta, Ga., Bob Reynolds to (' Chicago, and_ Sam_ Smith to Du Bois, Pa. John ' I Sweeney is now living in Chicago, Charlie Trotter 1. in Jamaica, N. Y., and Paul W.anvig in Hamburg, ' 
·'I

Pa. Bob Kopf is working for the Kimball Glass 
Co., Toledo. 
Leo Murphy, former South Bend resident, is now a trainer of tlie New York Yankees football team. His present address is Hotel Commander,. 55 'Vest Broadway, Long, Beach, N. Y, · 
Fred Shadley was awarded a · master of science ,,i degree from Harvard on June 23. _Mary Lou Gatens reports fo~ Don their change ., of address to 211 Austin Ave., Maquoketa, Ia. 
Frank Puyau is a medical student at · Louisi:.na State University. His mailing address is 3964 Louisi­ana Ave., Ne\v Orleans. : 
Gene LeFave, holder of one of the· first J. I. Holcomb fellowships in chemistry at Butler. Uni­versity, Indianapolis, presented a paper. to the· na· tional convention of the American Chemical Society, held Sept. 19 in Atlantic City, N. J. 
1949 

John 'p: Walker, Roche, William &. Cleary, 135 S. La Salle St. Chicago, III. .I t 
1 

BULLETIN: Johnny Walker has Just generously. ! accepted the secretaryship of the 1949 class. More later! . · . · 
Dick Nolan-has ·joined ·the Franciscan .Order and is at St. Francis Seminary, Todt Hill Rooo, · Sta· ten Island 4, N: Y.· Dick-was-previously connected 
I

with the O'Brien Paint Co. in South Bend. Ernie. 
\

McCullough is ·studying for tlie priesthood at the \ Holy. Cross Novitiate in South Bend. 
I 
(' 

·John Bartley is ,;ith the Burroughs Adding Ma­chine Co. in South Bend. His business address is \ 226 W. 'Jefferson Blvd. . · · 
Tom Brady is with the Thor Corp. in Chi­i cago, where he is editor for the house organ. Bob Conlin, M.A., '49. i~ ·teaching sociology in St. 
·'l

Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn. _ Tom Lunneen was appointed federal census su· ' pervisor of the third Indiana congressional district. 
i 

Tom, South . Bend attorney, is married and lives 
i 

at 110 North Hill St., South Bend. . • 
i

Joe Anderson, 607 East Corby. Blvd., South Bend,· has been admitted to the practice of law in Indiana. He has offices M 211 Poledor Bldg, South Bend. 
Joe Marigrich is employed. as deputy collector in the Bureau of Internal Revenue ·in South Bend. 
Bernie Powers is head football coach at St. Bede's Academy, Peru, Ill. Dick Riley is athletic director and heoo coach at King's College Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Ted Budynkiewicz is freshman football coach at Arizona State College. · 
Karl Ackerman is with the . Foreign Service of the Department of State,' is at the American Em, bassy in Rome and expects to be ·there for· two years. His. address is American Embassy, Rome, --· Italy. Karl saw Brother Boniface, C.S.C., sacristan, when Brother was· in Rome this past summer. , 
George Flemming is employed by the Welch Sci­entific Appartus Co., Chicago. Wib Marshall is con­neCted with. an architectural firm. in Tampa, Fla: 
Don Hoover· has started his practice of law in Nappanee, Ind., in partnership with R. L. Egger of Bremen, Ind. Don is married and has one child.' 



