The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

1954 Total of $2,289,114 From 11,424 Contributors 
A-ueragg Alumnus Gift 
A record total of 11,424 contribu­tions, from alumni and other friends, equaling $2,289,113.94 were received liy Notre Dame in 1954. The amount represented an increase of 55% over the 1953 total of $1,470,851. Alumni contributions reached an all-time high with 10,135 gifts for a 50.1% partici­pation as compared with 47.7% in the 1953 fund. This information was re­leased by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, Director of the Notre Dame Foundation, in a recent report. Addi­tional statistics will be printed in the Spring issue of NOTRE DAME. 
^ The average alumnus gift was .?49.64 while total contributions from alumni accounted for $503,352.24. An additional $400,000 was given by hon­orary alumni for capital gifts. Con­tributions of $64,214.69, from 568 par­ents of Notre Dame students were re­ceived. 
Non-alumni friends gave $675,171.83 to the University during 1954, noted Father Cavanaugh. Included in this category, he said, were gifts from 179 corporations and foundations, many of whom specified their donations for the Distinguished Professors Program. Government and industrial research grants amounted to $710,589.57 in 1954, an 18% increase over the pre­vious year's total of $602,734. 
Gifts of $1,000 and over totalled 185 contributors. There was a notice­

• able increase in 'installment giving" whereby the donor sent in certain amounts more than once during the 
i )^^ar. The Class of 1912 led all classes ' in total amount given with $96,095.87. 1 Class participation honors went to '49 

Amounts to $49.64 
with a total of 586 alumni in that group contributing. 
All unrestricted gifts to Notre Dame during 1954 were assigned to the Uni­versity's Faculty Development Fimd, Father Cavanaugh emphasized. These unrestricted gifts, coupled with cor­poration contributions to the Distin­guished Professors Program, totalled $456,215.21. Under this program, cor­porations from coast to coast are being invited to underwrite the addition of forty-five eminent scholars to the Notre Dame faculty. 
Among those who already have been added to the staff are Ivan Mestrovic, the celebrated Croatian sculptor; Rev. Philip Hughes, the noted British Church historian; Dr. G. F. D'Alelio, former vice president of the Koppeis Co., recently appointed head of Notre Dame's chemistry department; Rev. Martin D'Arcy, S.J., renowned British philosopher and theologian; and Dr. Charles Brambel, internationally recog­nized biologist and biochemist, who will head the University's biology de­partment beginning in September. 
Also, Dr. Robert C. Turner, former presidential economic advisor, who has been serving as a visiting professor in the College of Commerce; Dr. Joseph Becker, research physicist at the Bell Laboratories, also a visiting professor; Dr. Vladimir Seidel, noted mathemati­cian; and Dr. Fritz Fischer, German historian. 
Celebrated figures who have lectured at Notre Dame since the Distinguished Professors Program was established in­clude Supreme Court Justice William 
O. Douglas, historian Arnold Toynbee, 
Volume 33 No. Match, 1955 
James E. Aimstroog, '25 Editor John N. CacUer, '37 Managing Editor 
Sir Richard Livingstone and Dr. A; P. d'Entreves. 
Since the beginning of the Notre Dame Foundation in 1947 more "than $14,700,000 has been given to Notre Dame in gifts and grants. In that same period seven new buildings have been erected on campus. Two additional structures, Pangbom Residence Hall and the Hammes Shopping Center, will be completed in the next few months. 
Other building projects, which still remain on the long-range expansion program as announced in 1948 con­sist of two residence halls, a dining hall, maintenance center, auditorium­fieldhouse and a library. In the past seven years Notre Dame's student body has increased from 4,700 in 1948 to 5,400 at the present time. 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT—APRIL 18 
Alumni Clubs from coast to coast wrill celebrate the 32nd anniver­sary of UND Night on April 18 (or within the octave). 

FR. O'DONNELL NAMED TO FOUNDATION POST 
The appointment of Rev. Thomas 
J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, as associate di­rector of the Notre Dame Foundation was announced recently by Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, University president. 
Father O'Donnell has been associ­ated with the Foundation since Janu­ary, 1953, when he was named assist­ant to the director, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C 
Prior to joining the Foundation staff. Father O'Donnell served for a year as associate editor of The Catholic Boy, a youth publication of the Holy Cross Fathers. From 1947 to 1952 he was a faculty member at Holy Cross Collie, Washington, D. C He also served for three years as assistant su­perior of the Holy Cross Foreign Mis­sion Seminary in Washington. 

Dr. Leo O'Donnell, 17, Is Newly-Elected 



President of Notre Dame Alumni Assoc. 
Board of Directors Attend Campus Meeting 
Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17, staff sur­geon at Mercy Hospital, Pittsburgh, Pa., was unanimously elected president of the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion, succeeding James G. McGold­rick, '39, New York City, at die Winter meeting of the Association's Board of Directors held on campus. 
Other ofBcers elected were: Daniel Culhane, '23, Wasliington, D. C, first vice-president; John Saunders, '31, Boston, Mass., second vice-president; John E. Mclntyre, '31, South Bend, Ind., third vice-president; and James 
E. Armstrong, '25, executive secretary. Jim McGoldrick remains on the Board as Honorar}' President ex-officio. 
New- directors who received a ma­jority of votes from alumni-at-large in the recent balloting and will serve a three-year term are: Patrick J. Fisher, .'36, Indianapolis, Ind.; John W. Bren­nan, '27,. Detroit, Mich.; J. Patrick Canny, '28, Cleveland, O.; and Jo­seph E. Whalen, '29, Des Moines, la. 
Retiring directors who completed their service to the Board consist of John H. Neeson, Jr., '35, John W. Courtney, '25, J. Ralph Coryn, '22, and Karl Martersteck, '29. 
Highlighting the sessions was an ad­dress by the Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, at the closing luncheon. Board directors listened to, and participated in, four other major programs which included a meeting with Father Philip Moore, C.S.C., Academic Vice-Presi­dent, and the Deans; a talk by Father James E. Norton, C.S.C, Vice-Presi­dent of Student Affairs, and a ques­tion period participated in by the heads of band, glee club, debate team, as well as remarks by student leaders on campus; a presentation by Father Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, executive vice-president on athletic policies aided by comments from Athletic Director Krause and Coaches Earley, Kline, Jordan, Wilson and Samson, and a graphic 'case history* of the adult edu­cation program by a South Bend group led by Father John J. Cavanaugh. CS.C. 

The Alumni Board of Directors an­nually attend three meetings which are usually held on campus. The other two sessions are in June and in the Fall. Alumni programs are planned by the Board, which represents 25,000 Notre Dame Men living in this coun­try and in many foreign nations. 
CLASS REUNION WEEKEND 1­
June 10, 11, 12 
1905—50th 1930—25th 1910—45th 1935—20th 1915^ 0 th 1940—15th 1920—35Ui 1945—10th 1925—30tli 1950— 5th 
The Best Bargain of the year— and only $20! 


Par6n+-Son W66k6nd 
The University of Notre Dame's junior class on March 18, 19, 20 will sponsor its third annual Parent-Son weekend on the campus. The event will feature open house extended by all the colleges, ROTC's, and LOBUND. Campus tours are on the program. Fatlier Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C, will deliver the main address March 19 at the President's Dinner. 
Alumni Board of Directors attend January meeting. Left to right, seated: John W. Courtney, Robert H. Gore, Jr., John E. Mclntyre, Daniel Culhane, Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, James G. McGoldrick, John F. Saunders; standing: James I^. Ferstel, Patrick J. Fisher, Joseph I. O'Neill, Jr., Karl Martersteck, James E. Armstrong, J. Patrick Canny, Father T. J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., J. Ralph Coryn, John H. 
Neeson, Jr., and Joseph E. Whalcn. 

Harry J. Kirk receives award from the Very Rev. John A. Flynn, president of St. John's University. Archbishop Thomas E. Molloy, of Brooklyn (center), presided. 


Outstanding Award Given to Harry J. Kirk by St John's U. 
A Notre Dame man who, by his "dynamic labors" has "for 24 years closely associated himself with the Vin­centian pattern of charity"—received the 1954 St. Vincent de Paul Medal of St. John's University (New York). 
He is Harry J. Kirk, '13, of Wash­

,, ington, D. C, a civil engineer, the father of three religious, and the treas­urer of the National Conference of Catholic Charities. 
Designated as die "outstanding lay­man" of his archdiocese by Archbishop Patrick A. O'Boyle of Washington, Mr. Kirk, together with Archbishop O'Boyle, was honored at St. John's re­cently at a "Marian Year St. Vincent de Paul Lecture" presided over by the Most Rev. Thomas E. Molloy, Arch­

^t bishop-Bishop of Brooklyn. 
Mr. Kirk, noted the citation, has never allowed his "eminent success" in, and "his abundant commitments to, purely secular activities lessen his zeal­ous devotion to the works of Vincen­tian charity; for 24 years he has inti­mately identified himself with the St. Francis de Sales Conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society of the Dis­trict of Columbia; for five years he . served as president of the Particular ! ^Council of Washington; during his tenure of office he helped to organize 
the Particular Councils of Prince George and Montgomery Counties as well as to establish for needy children the St. Vincent de Paul Camp." 
The head of the Research and Safe­ty Department of the Associated Gen­eral Contractors of America, Mr. Kirk helped to organize a Vincentian or­ganization in the Raleigh, N. C, Dio­cese and during the past four years he has served as a member of the Superior Council of the St. Vincent de Paul Society. 
He is a native of Defiance, Ohio, received an A.B. degree at Defiance College in 1911 and two years later took a degree in civil engineering at the University of Notre Dame. A for­mer Director of Highways for the state of Ohio, he and his wife, Kath-r)^!, have two daughters who are Car­melite nuns and a son who is a Bene­dictine priest. 

Mr. Kirk is a Fourth Degree mem­ber of the Knights of Columbus and is past president of the Washington Catholic Evidence Guild and the Na­tional Catholic Evidence Conference. He served as Catholic co-chairman of the National Conference of Christians and Jews for the District of Columbia, and is a past president of the St. Vin­cent de Paul Society of St. Anthony's Parish in Washington. 
Fr. William Robinson Dies in Los Angeles 
Rev. William H. Robinson, C.S.C. ('20), a former professor of religion at the University of Notre Dame'and one-time president of St Edward's University, Austin, Tex. (1943-46), died in Los Angeles, Calif., in Febru­ary. He was the author of numeroiM articles in Catholic magazines and journals and one of the most noted preachers in the Congregation of Holy . Cross. 
For the past year Father Robinson had been chaplain at Rancho San An­tonio, an institution operated by the Holy Cross Brothers at Chatsworth, Calif. The recipient of doctorates of philosophy (1923) and theology (1927) from the Gregorian Univer­sity, Rome, he was active in the work of the Family Rosary Crusade. During his career he taught at Holy Cross Col­lege, Washington, D. C. (1927-39), and was chaplain at Notre Dame High School, Biloxi, Miss (1953). In 1946 . he Joined the Notre Dame religion de­partment, serving also as assistant re­ligious superior of the Holy Cross priests at the University. 
Father Robinson was a native of Lafayette, Ind. 

Inspect ROTC Units 
Assistant Secretary of Defense Carter 

L. Biurgess headed a group of 25 armed forces officials who on Jan. 25 inspected Reserve Officer Training Corps facili­ties which serve the more than 1,500 student-members of the Army, Air Force, Navy, and Marine ROTC units on campus. 
Notre Dame is one of the few col­leges and universities in the coimtry which provides ROTC training in all branches of the U. S. armed forces. 
Included in the official inspection party, which was welcomed to the campus by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesbuigh, C.S.C, president, were Lt. Gen. Hobart Gay, commanding general of the Fifth Army; Maj. Gen. Joseph-
C. Berger, U. S. Marines; Maj. Gen. William E. Hall of the Air Force; Rear Adm. Irving L. McQuiston of the, Reserve Forces Planning Board; Rear. Adm. Kenmoren McManes of thc: Navy; and Maj. Gen. Bryan L. Mil-bum, U. S. Army. 
I»r< fA 

The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. (foreground). Director of the Notre Dame Foundation, was the principal speaker at the Notre Dame Communion Breakfast, attended by 93 alumni and friends, in Boys To»'n, Neb. Father Cavanaugh recently conducted a retreat 
'F/'/tfiy Rjch/ ^wt On/y ^ox a Day 
A "multi-millionaire for a day"— 

that was John J. McLaughlin, '34, of 
Cumberland Hill, R. I., who on Jan. 
3 got the "biggest dividend check I 
ever did see" from the First National 
Bank of die City of New York—a 
check for the sum of $9,999,924. 
"The check is good, the bank is good, and it's all properly endorsed, but I think there's a mistake here, John!" gulped a bewildered teller in the Woonsocket Branch of the Indus­trial National Bank when "Mac" con­fronted him with the document. "Did you know this check is for nearly $10,000,000?" 
The check should have been $24, representing a stock dividend of $8 
ALUMNUS Magazine 
Vol. 33, No. 2 March, 1955 Notre Dame, Ind. 
for the 'citizens' of Father Flanagan's Boys' Home. 
per share on three shares of stock John owns in the First National Bank of New York City. Apparently "the check-writing machine filled in with 'nines' instead of 'zeros.' 
SYMPOSIUM ON CAMPUS ANALYZES U.S. POLICIES 
Representative Alvin M. Bentley (Mich.) the most seriously wounded of five Congressmen shot down by Puerto Rican terrorists in their attack on the House of Representatives May 
•1, 1954—was one of four foreign affairs specialists who examined the explosive questions of "peaceful coe.x­istence" and America's policy toward a simmering East-Central Europe at a University of Notre Dame symposium Feb. 11. 
In a treatment of "The Fate of East-' Central Europe: Hopes and Failures of<; American Foreign Policy," Congress­man Bentley, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, discussed "American Ideas and Concepts for a Free East Central Europe." 
The other e-xperts and their topics were Professor Philip E. Mosely, di­rector of the Russian Institute at Co­lumbia University—"American Policy Toward East Central Europe, 1941­47"; Robert F. Byrnes, director of re­search at the Mid-European Studies^' Center, New York City—"Contain­ment, Liberation, or Coexistence?"; and Nicholas Spulber, lecturer in eco­nomics at Indiana University—"The Problems of East-West Trade and Eco­nomic Trends in the Enslaved Coun­tries." 
Entered as Second Class matter October 1, 1939, at the Post Office,, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of' August 24, 1912. 

Return postage guaranteei 






