The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
NOTRE DAME 
cr *s^" d>' 
^^ 
.«^ 
*i <i'i' 
^ 
* 
e^ 
.

r^: ^^ 

JIM ARMSTRONG The Passing of an Era 
fi 
1 •C'*j»; 
JLike Art Liinhletier's kids, 
Notre Dame's Alumni say the darnedest things . . . 
like on the recent survey sent out by the Social Science 
Training and Research Lab. Included in the replies 
that flooded the lab was one from a guy who thought 
"self-extermination" should be one of the programs his 
local Club could implement. Even including the jokers, the response has been gratifying. After being circled and check-marked by Alumni, each questionnaire 
must be converted into a punched IBM card before 
the final results can be tabulated. In addition to the work that requires the "machine touch," personal attention is required for some of the replies. Address changes are noted, suggestions are forwarded to the Alumni Office — and there have even been some -r checks enclosed which must be deposited in the Foundation account. Dr. William Liu and his faithful assistants (one of whom, Carol Evans, is pictured with him at left) say they will have the complete story soon, for sure in the next issue of the ALUMXUS. In the meantime, keep those questionnaires coming. 
•'-'"""•'•fiii 

"*=*w^ 
1^ 
.ftSi 


Compendium 
UNIVERSITY CALENDAR 

Aug. 4, Summer School Commencement. Sept. 15, Freshman Orien­tation. Sept. 18-19, Registration for Fall Semester. Sept. 20, First Class Day of Fall Semester. 
CENTERFOR 
CONTINUING 
EDUCATION 

(All conferences at the Center may be considered "Open to Alumni" unless indicated othervrise.) July 30-Aug. 5, College Pub­lic Relations Assn. Annual Summer Academy. Aug. 2-4, Seminar in Busi­ness Administration. Aug. 7-12, Theological In­stitute for Local Superiors. Aug. 8-10, Second Institute on Stewardship & Church Support. Aug. 21-27, Christian Fam­ily Movement Conference. 
FACULTY AND STAFF 

James D. Cooney '59, ap­pointed exec. secy, of the ND Alumn i Association, Aug. 1, succeeding James E. Armstrong '25. Philip J. Faccenda '51, for­mer pres. of ND Alumni Assn. and immediate past pres. of ND Low Assn., appointed spec. asst. to Father Hesburgh. Will work with Bd. of Trustees and Advisory Councils. Vincent P. Goddaid, asst. prof, of aero-space engi­neering, honored for his 
work as adviser to ND chapter of American Insti­tute of Aeronautics and Astronautics by natl. AIAA. Dr. Robert E. Gordon, prof, and head of the dept. of biology, named a member of the National Institutes of Health Biomedical Com­munications Study Section. He was also named mod­erator of a symposium at the annual meeting of the Society for the Study of Amphibians and Reptiles Sept. 8-10 at Ohio State U. Dr. Robert Hassenger, asst prof, of sociology, elected to a 14-member committee to plan the Assn. for High­er Education's 23rd Natl. Conference March 3-6,1968. 
Dr. Joseph Charles Hogan, 
engineering dean at U. of Missouri since '62, named dean of College of Engi­neering at ND. 
Rev. George L. Holderith CSC '18, retires as super­visor of buildings. Will still continue in charge of the golf course and shop. Walter Jaworsld '43 has been appointed asst. to Edwin Lyon, supervisor of grounds and buildings. Edwin V. Lyon, former dir. of maintenance, will suc­ceed Father Holderith as supervisor of buildings and grounds. 
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy CSC '25. archivist and prof, of history, honored by ND History Teachers Club as its founder 28 years ago and moderator from '41 to •66. Dr. John W. Meaney 40, ap­pointed to new position of assL to the vp for academic affairs and director of edu­cational media at ND, will hold faculty position of prof of communication arts. Thomas T. Murphy, dean of the college of bus. ad­min., reappointed to a two-year term on the Export Expansion Council by Sec­retary of Commerce A.B. Trowbridge. 
Bro. Eieran Ryan CSC '45 
appointed dir. of financial aid and exec. secy, of the scholarship committee. Dr. C. Joseph Sequin, as­soc. prof, of management, named to head a special 
committee to evaluate the bus service problem in 
South Bend-Mishawaka. Colin D. B. Tult, former general mgr. of Lakeshore Hilton, Baton Rouge, La., 

named to succeed Armand Lysak v/ho retired as man­ager of Morris Inn. 
Dr. Bernard W a I d m a n 
named dean of the college 
of science. 

New Officers of ND's Amer­
ican Association oi Univer­
sity Professors: Dr. Edward 
Manier, pres.; Dr. Harvey 
Bender, vp; Thomas Shaf­
fer, secy, and ed.; Dr. C. 
Joseph Sequin, treas. 
BOOKS 

Walter H. Davis, assoc. prof, of English, ed. "The Works of Thomas Cam­pion," a new text of Cam­pion's English songs, masques and treatises and a selection of his Latin verse, Doubleday. Michael C. Gemignani MS '64, PhD '65, "Elementary Topology," a college text­book for topology, Addi­son-Wesley Publishing Co., Inc., Reading, Mass. Jack Gourman '49, MA '52, prof, at San Fernando Val­ley State CoL, "The Gour­man Report," the result of his 10-year study rating undergraduate programs of 1200 US colleges and uni­versities. The Continuing Education Institute, Inc., Phoenix. Francis G. Shinskey '52, systems design engineer. The Foxboro Co., "Process Control Systems: Applica­tion; Design; Adjustment," McGraw-Hill. 
GRANTS 

Aero-space Engineering De­
partment, Dr. John D. Nico­laides, $11,200 from the Air Force Flight Dynamics Lab for wind tunnel investiga­tion of the parafoil. Biology Department, Dr. Kenyon S. Tweedell, $39,­313 from NIH for research in the experimental pro­duction of malignant tu­mors in the embryos and young of the common leopard frog. Chemistry Department, Dr. 
Daniel J. Pasto, $17,500 
from the Alfred P. Slodh 
Foundation for research 
fellowships in chemistry. 
College of Science, Dr. 
Frederick D. Rossini, $52,­
613 from NIH to support 
biomedical sciences re­
search. 
Engineering Science De­partmenL Dr. Alan Monke­wicz, $50,221 from the Air Force Office of Scientific Research for research into laser light going through gases. Mediaeval Institute. $35,000 from the Samuel H. Kress Foundation for microfilming and photographing at Am­brosiana Ubrary in Milan, Italy. 
Mathematics Department. 
Dr. James D. Stasheff, $17,­500 from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation to sup­port research fellowships in math. 
BGcrobiology Department 
Dr. Wayne F. Echelberger Jr., $5700 from NSF for" equipment for analysis of microbiological reactio n products. 
IiGcrobiology Department. 
Dr. Morris Pollard, $127,339 from the NIH for develop­ment and maintenance of germfree animal colonies and the study of oncogenic and other viruses in germ-free animals. 
Philosophy Department. 
$120,000 from Carnegie Corp. for 1968 and 1959 summer institutes for teach­ers of philosophy in small­er Catholic colleges. Physics Department. $160,­000 to Drs. Walter C. Miller, Cornelius P. Browne, Paul 
R. Chagnon, Sperry E. Dor­den and Bernard Waldman from the Office of Naval Research for study of nu­clear energy specfra of artificially excited nuclei. University. $47,425 from US Office of Education under the Higher Education Act, for continued graduate education of teachers and those who are interested in becoming teachers. 


Atumni Ask 
Academic freedom and the Catholic umversity TO THE EDITOR: I enjoyed the articles on academic freedom in the May-June ALUMNUS, but felt they did UfUe to clarify the issue. As I view it, the ques­tion of academic freedom, as with all freedom, is concerned with constraints that should be placed on actions, whether these actions be inquiry, proclamation or direct interference with other people's lives. The fundamental question is not, as asked: "Academic Freedom: Can it be realized at a Catholic university?" But: "Academic Freedom: what should it permit at a Catholic university?" . . . The only basis for restricting actions is a concern for the common good. Free­dom of inquiry would not permit one, for example, to conduct cm experiment which had a "reasonable" chance of destroying the world. 
Since each collection of administra­tors, teachers and students determines a unique distribution of attitudes to­ward the common good, each univer­sity, at least in theory, would arrive at different conclusions as to what are de­sirable constraints on freedom of inquiry or expressed views. Normally, firm be­lief in Catholic tenets will not affect one's value judgments in nonreligious fields — for example, physics and chemistry — and therefore will present no special problems not also found in secular uni­versities. However, there are fields in which Catholic belief will markedly affect one's attitude as to what serves the common good. Certain moral principles might exclude particular experiments in the fields of religion, sociology or psy­chology. . . . 
It would be beUer if Catholics stopped being ashamed to clcdm that being a Catholic does make a difference as to how one chooses among possible courses of action. The phrase, "Catholic Uni­versity," like so many phrases, is not a precise one. If the university is run by Catholic clergy, it probably will have a different idea of the common good than if it is run by Catholic laymen. And if the authority has its Catholicism "di­luted" even further by involving non-Catholics, then logically we should view the university as being less "Catholic." Because of this, we must be careful to distinguish what ore our objectives. Do we want our "Catholic" university to hove the leputation of a Harvard or a California, or do we want the same rules of academic freedom? The former is possible within the definition of "Catholic University." If we want the latter also, then the control must be made less dis­tinguishably Catholic, by putting direc­tion of the university in the hands of people who less and less have the view of the common good as held by "Cath­olics" (or change our concept of "Cath­olic"). None of the above should be construed as a defense of Catholic uni­versities. To the extent that they im­properly assess what is for the common good, they should change and become "less Catholic." To the extent that they properly assess what is for the common good, they should continue to act and restrict according to these standards. As 

in so many problems, the proper course of action depends on a clear definition of what we want, followed by an open search for how to get there. Only by doing this can individuals or universities really be free, free in the sense that those actions may be taken (be they permissive or restrictive) which best compromise confUcting goals. I would suggest, finally, that there is overall more academic freedom where a diver­sity of opinion about academic freedom produces a Toiiety of universities, some of which are different enough to warrant the label "Catholic." 
John E. Reith '41 Wilmington, DeL 
Orersight TO THE EDITOR: My purpose in writing you is to set the record straight about something I read in the Summer issue of_ INSIGHT: Notre Dame. 1 knew Hugh O'Dormell as we roomed in Sorin SiA­way and I was with the footbcdl team when Hughie made a bad pass from center. That was not a Yale game and it did not result in the game being lost This game, I believe, took place in 1916, on a trip that we made to play Texas at Austin and Rice at Houston. It was in the Rice game and we were ahead and it was either Emmet Keefe or Free­man Fitzgerald (both guards but I do not remember which). But in any event we were down close to the goal line and ahead in the score so either Emmet or Freeman was placed in the backfield and Hughie was to pass the ball to him so he could make a touchdown. But the dam ball went way over the head of the receiver and resulted in a touch­down for the other team. It is needless to say that Hughie felt very badly about it, not because the other team had scored but because he wanted either Emmet or Freeman to have the record show that they had made a touchdown for ND. 
George F. Frantz '17 Fenrumore, Wis. 
Dubious distinction? TO THE EDITOR: The accomplishments of Harold Howe which warrant the con­ferring of academic honors by the Uni­versity this spring are imknown to me. I am aware that Howe is very desfrous of increasing the confrol which the Fed­eral Government has over the content of education throughout the land and that he is well-placed in his position as US Commissioner of Education to accom­plish this. But it is doubtful to me that it is this which prompts the University to bestow an honorary degree. 
Dr. R J. Daschbach '48 San Mateo, Colii See page 8.—Editor. 
Need truer reflection TO THE EDITOR: I read the May-June issue of the ALUMNUS with consider­able enjoyment, but I looked in vain for any mention of the nascent Catholic Pentecostal movement at ND. It was perhaps the most significant, or, at any rate, sensational religious event on cam­pus since the much-touted Vatican 11 conference. Personally, I am more amused than edified by the spectacle of evangelical revivalism (complete with glossolcdia) at ND and, too, I realize that file ALUMNUS may wish to avoid sen­sational journalism. Nevertheless, it would seem that in view of the maga­zine's role as the Alumni's primary win­dow on ND, tiie ALUMNUS has a duty to inform its subscribers of all events oif significance that occur at the University. 
Recent issues, it is true, have gone a 
long way toward raising certain funda­
mental issues. Indeed, thanks to the 
ALUMNUS, some of the Alumni seem to 
have reconciled themselves to the ap­
pearance of left-wing radicals on • the 
campus. Yet, to judge from the reactions 
with wliich some Alumni greeted the 
addresses of outgoing Student Body 
President (SBP) James Fish and incom­
ing SBP Cfiris Murphy, it would appear 
that the gentlemen of the Alumni Senate 
are terribly out of touch with the gen­
eral trend of student life today. Murphy, 
for example, was categorized as a "so­
cialist" and a "screaming radical" by 
a few participants. Of course, this 
puerile response can easily be dis­
missed; but, I would suggest that the 
shock and dismay which greeted Fish 
when he mentioned that up to SO percent 
of the student body had lost the Catholic 
faith is of significance. If ND is to be 
spared the uninformed reaction of lumpen 
Kalholik alumni, the ALUMNUS must ex­
plain today's undergraduate's spiritual 
odyssey from doubt, to anticlericalism, to 
humanism, Pentacostalism or a personal 
version of Christianity, for today tfus is 
what Nofre Dame is all about. 
Howard J. Dooley '66 
Pittsburgh 
In retrospect, the editors agree with Mr. Dooley's remarks concerning the lack of coverage of the Pentecostal movement on Campus. The decision not to cover the story was made by the staff and in no way was that decision influenced by the Ad­ministration.—Editor. 
Dialogue? 
TO THE EDITOR: The "Emergence of 
Alumni Dialogue" could be the greatest 
thing that has ever happened to the 
ALUMNUS if it ever gets to be a dia­
logue. 
In trying to elevate Bud Dudley's side of the colloquy I would wish that Bud would be able to get all 40,000 men of the ND alumni, that he represents, in one room for a few minutes to let him speak his piece. If such could happen he would walk out with almost 40,000 votes for the continuance of the hackneyed old cliches known as responsibility, honor, patriotism and love. 
I would guess that President Dudley would be AGAINST some of the "hap­penings" and "colloquialisms" that are evident of our campus today and the fragio mistake about these new habits (I think) is that the average alumnus may not be fully aware what is going on at Notre Dame these days. 
The ALUMNUS seems to have the knack of publishing everything that is "nice," and tends to ignore actual cam­pus happenings which might start an alumni revolution. In many cases the ALUMNUS is the only contact the old grad may hove with his Alma Mater and if he doesn't read the "news" in the ALUMNUS he may not know the in­teresting litUe stories until it is too late to do much about them. 
Do they publish in the ALUMNUS that considerable quantities of alcoholic bev­erages are being consumed daily in the residence halls despite state laws and iiniversity regulations and our authori­ties ore choosing to overlook the situa­tion? Or have you seen in our ALUM­
ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST NUS that our authorities acknowledge that some LSD and marijuana are in use on the campus? Do they let us know about the highly emotional Pentecostal movement in which students an& priests seek to be overtaken by the Holy Spirit where, during the meeting, the partici­pants come out with "dear prophecies" and where the participants WERE over­taken by the Holy Spirit and where some "pray in tongues" whatever that is? These few points and many others made the news elsewhere and admittedly, these actions are the work of smcdl minorities, but how about the big recent St. Mary's panty raid with large num­bers involved, all shouting obscenities which are in common campus use these days? 

Long hear, beards, guitar Mass, all-night lights, girls in halls any time, liquor, beer, unusual religious practices, filthy speech, cars, demands, demands, etc. — may each in itself, be trivial but what is the overall campus tone and does this almost unlimited freedom, to not quite mature males, contribute to the eventual goal of having a "best uni­versity"? 
I would like to see everyone read the "Image" again and read it in the per­spective in which it was written. If any­thing appeals to you as a nonathlete individucd, accept it. MacArthur with his head bowed in prayer, Washington on his knees and the 10 Commandments may sound corny these days but Presi­dent Dudley is entitled to his thoughts and he didn't write "Image" as President of the Alumni nor with the approval or disapproval of our Alumni Board. 
Barton B. Johnson '48 Wynnewood, Pa. 

This magazine accepts Mr. Johnson's challenge to present a clearer and more complete picture of student affairs. At the same time we invite Mr. Johnson to docu­ment what hopefully are his first-hand ob­servations reference his remarks in para­graph 5, hoping he would do so in a perspective relative to the entire student body.—Editor. 
TO THE EDITOR: Congratulations for having published Bud Dudley's "The Lost Image." Apparently your publishing of the article has stirred up a good bit of controversy. This could prove to be beneficial, if the arguments — pro and con — were based on sound reasoning. Regrettably, though, I hove noted some comments in the Notre Dame "Scholas­tic" and have seen some letters written to Bud subsequent to the appearance of the article in the ALUMNUS which do nothing more than castigate Bud per­sonally. The paradox is that those who have written the comments and/or letters either have misread the article or have not understood its meaning. It is impor­tant to remind the "critics" that for "The Lost Image," Bud, whose every act has been a credit to his family, to his com­munity, to his country and to Notre Dame, received the Freedom Founda­tion's Award in 1966 — an award not easily achieved. I endorse wholeheart­edly each and every aspect of "The Lost Image"; and, I, too, urge athletes to assume the role of leaders. 
William A. Whiteside Jr. '51 Philadelphia 

ALUMNUS JULY 19«7 AUGUST 


from the managingeditor 
J
UST a little over 41 years ago, Jim Armstrong—pictured here as a curly-topped young chap with his gold watchchain threaded through his vest — made his entry onto the pages of the ALUMNUS for the very first time. It came in January, 1926 when he not only assumed the role of chief scribe but also that of exec­utive secretary of the Alumni Asso­ciation as well. Only six months out of Prof. John Cooney's journalism course — with a brief stopover at the South Bend News Times and an in­terlude as publicity writer for Notre Dame—^Jim Armstrong assumed his dual position at the age of 24. He was hardly dry behind the ears by standards in alumni associations today. 
Now, in this 45th volume of the ALUMNUS, the still terribly distin­guished gentleman-editor—his hair turned white and a few of the curls ironed out — makes his exit He re­tires after 41 years of service, an exceptional record indeed. 
To find anyone in the same posi­tion for such a long period, regard­less of profession, is something more than an exception in today's highly fluid employment market. "And to that," remarked Bob Cahill at the Armstrong testimonial banquet, "you can add the fact that he probably doesn't have an enemy in the world." 
In the all-too-brief years Fve worked with him, I will remember Jim Armstrong for the calm, tem­perate and confident open-minded­ness he displayed in all his dealings, be they related to the magazine or the general affairs of the Association. I marvel about this quality in view of the constant changes in higher education and the revolution and upheaval imiversity communities have witnessed in this day, Notre Dame being no exception. Alumni from the ddest to the yotmgest aren't always as generous with their disposi­tion on matters affectii^ ahna mater. In some instances, thoi ^ surely not the majwity, they stonn for rdTtmn:. and reinstatement of "the <M day^ . .. cr demand the removal ot anti­quated peoi^e and things... or sug­gest mass lynching tcHnorrow in tbe footlKdl ticket o£Bce. And yet, throu^ all 41 years, resolutely encamped in the thick of these protests, Jim calm­ly mediated affairs of the family. 
M^ y will rightly say thete'Q never be another man for all ages . . . another man for all seascms in the Alumni 0£Sce . . . another Jim AnmtaFong. And they'll be i^t . 
JIM ARMSTRONG 
There can be txily c»e Annstrong. But as sure as September will bring another Notre E^ e football sea­son, there will be another to take up where Jim left off, one who wiD project his own unique character and personality in mediating the continuing affairs of this great family. 
To both Notre Dame men—^the outgoing and the inccmiing—may the blesangs of Our Lady of the Lake guide them on to many years of happness. 

INDEX 
Cover Story  10 Last Word  76  
Alumni Ask  2  Editorial  4  Potpoum  6  
Classes  16  Law School  65  Sports  70  
Clubs  66  Photoany  72  Topside Brich  14  

The ALUMNUS is published bimonthly by the University of Notr* Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Entered as second-class matter Oct. 1, 1939, at the post ofISc*, Noire Dame, Ind., under Itw act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
E do not know how one begins to express gratitude to someone like Jim Armstrong who has served the University so well over 41 years of its 125-year history. This is about one-third of our total University existence, and a very exciting third at that. It was during this period that our Alumni grew from a few hundred to more than 40,000 and began to make their influence felt all over the world in increasing num­bers. It took great leadership to continue and develop an alumni pro­gram over these years when the numbers were growing so rapidly, as was the University. 
One tends at times to think of the Alumni in terms of giving. It is true that Alumni giving during the past 30 years or so grew from about $10,000 annually to over $2 million annually. While the University changed greatly during this period, there was always the seciu-e feeling that the Alumni were continuing their dedication and loyalty, even though I am sure at times they found it difficult to understand every­thing that was happening. So did we. 
Jim Armstrong never seemed to lose his solid footing, his sense of humor and his rapport, both with the Alumni and with all that was happening at the University. He always shared, the vision of what Notre Dame might yet become and had the facility of communicating this to the Alumni for their own understanding and support. I believe the record speaks for itself in what has happened in the great spirit 
it 




Editorial 
C|||I!III1I1^ 

of our Alumni Association during these 41 years of his tenure as Alumni secretary. 
Coming up to the present, we now have an Alunoni Senate which will supplement the Alunmi Board and make for ever greater Alumni interest and involvement in all that is happening at their schooL This, together with the recent changes regarding the governance of the Uni­versity through the Board of Trustees and the new Faculty Manual for internal governance of academic affairs, has given us a new struc­tiure with which we will be able to move forward more quickly in the future. Again, we are grateful to Jim Armstrong for this great new Alunmi development which came at the very end of an unusually long tenure of office as Alumni secretary. 
I know that I speak for all of our alumni when I tell Jim how grate­ful we are to him for all that he has meant to all of us and to the Uni­versity over all of these years. He and his family will continue to be in our prayers and will have our best wishes for continued blessings of the kind he brought so generously upon the Alumni body and the University during all of these years. He will ever be an honored mem­ber of this family. All I can do now is to express to him the affectionate regard that has so overwhelmingly come his way this past year from all of you and from us, too. He will be a hard act to follow. 
REV. THEODORE M . HESBUKGH CSC UNIVERSFTY PRESIDENT 
For "The LastWord^"seep.76. 
July 19i57 August Vol. 45 No. 4 



Potpourri 

ARCHITECT'S VIEW of LIBRARY, CHAPEL and HIGH-RISES Complex building business 
ROOM FOR GROWING 
COR YEARS one of tlie laments of the 
* University and an open protest of Notre Dame students has been the inadequate number of modem dormi­tories on Campus. Finally a solution is in sight. ^Vith a §3 million assist from a government loan, the Uni­versity is launching a high-rise com­plex which in years to come will in­clude five doiTnitories and a modern­istic chapel. 
The first phase of the Campus com­munity' will be twin buildings, 11 stories high, north of the Memorial Libraiy and south of Stepan Center. The government loan is to be repaid in 40 years with income from the halls. The balance of the $6.5 million needed to pay for the doiTns will have to come from gifts to tlie Uni­vereity. The immediate need — hous­ing tlie bulk of the undergi-aduates who now live off-campus — will be met by tliese first two units which will accommodate 1050 men. It is hoped the buildings will be ready by the fall of 1969. 
\Vliile students rejoice in this an­nouncement, faculty and staff mem­bere are looking fonvard just as eager­ly to a new building of their own. Robert H. Gore Sr. LLD '58 of Ft. Lauderdale has contributed $350,000 for a new faculty clubhouse in mem­ory of his wife. The one-stor)' build­ing with a lodge atmosphere will be completed next year and will be lo­cated on tlie east side of Notre Dame Avenue just south of the Center for Continuing Education. One of the 
AtUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 

THE UNIVERSITY 
5LK 

distinctive features of its decor will be Gore's large collection of beer steins. One of the mugs is from the personal collection of Adolf Hitler; another is a gem valued at §25,000. Each stein has its own tale of histor)'. 
A progress report on other cam­pus construction includes these notes: 
•
 The $50,000 undergiound addi­tion to the Radiation Researcli Building, financed by the Atomic Encrg)' Commission, is now complete and is expected to be occupied next year. 

•
 The building adjacent to Nieuw­land Science Hall to house the "atom smasher," scheduled to be complete in May, is about two months behind schedule but the accelerator itself is being constructed according to the timetable and is to be ready for de­livciy and installation in December. 

•
 The $1 million Hayes-Healy Hall for the College of Business Adminis­tration is all set "on paper" and ready for bid-letting tliis summer. 


ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 
•
 The $1.1 million new Lobund Laboratory is coming along on sched­ule with tlie University committed to building a Life Science Center to con­nect die new Lobund and biology buildings in about three years. A $4.7 million grant has already been re­ceived from the National Science Foundation for the project. When a new biology building is completed as part of this plan, the present AVen­inger-Kirsch Biologj' Hall will prob­ably be turned over to die psychology and social science departments, ac­cording to Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, Notre Dame's executive vice-president. 

•
 The §8 million Athletic and Convocation Center is now at least two months ahead of schedule and University officials are hoping for completion in time for the beginning of school in 1968. 

•
 Renovation of Sacred Heart Church is under way including inside painting and cleaning and tuck-pointing of die exterior. 

•
 The continuing Campus expan­sion calls for constant enlargement of facilities at the ND power plant. During the last three years $3 million has been spent on expansion there and another new boiler is yet to be added this summer. 


Besides the building boom, some Campus changes may be effected by buildings no longer used for their original purposes. The University may inherit a fire station on Notre Dame avenue — willed to the city by ND founder Rev. Edward F. Sorin 
— if the ground ceases to be used for the fire department. Also, disposition of the old ND post office and the Holy Cross High School Seminary are yet to be announced. The Holy Cross dieological school to be brought to South Bend (see stor)' p. 15) wU not be housed in one of the Univer­sity buildings, according to Father Joyce. 
Looking to the future, tiiere is still much more to be done. Father Joyce listed these projects for startere: more space for the College of Engineering, a building for the Institute for Higher Religious Studies and an addition for the law building. Some planning has been done for all tliese but, first, the funds must be acquired. As Father Joyce concluded, "We can't bite off all diese things at one time." 

The Great Spy Caper 
It was Saturday night, and The New York Times man was on die phone ... and on deadline. Did the University of Notre Dame have a Dr. Kang Sung 
Jong on its faculty? The name wasn't 
familiar, and it wasn't listed in the 
University faculty directory. Why did 
the Times man want to know? 
"Dr. Kang has been implicated by 
the South Korean government in a 
worldwide Communist spy ring or­
ganized by North Korea." 
That is the way The Great Spy 
Caper began. 
A few calls succeeded in identify­ing Dr. Kang for the Times. Not a member of the regular Notre Dame teaching faculty, he was a 30-year-old postdoctoral research associate in chemistry hired in September and missing from University laboratories since the middle of June. 
In a spy ring story on Simday's front page, July 9, the Times noted that the only US Korean resident involved was Notre Dame's Dr. Kang. Inexplicably, the United Press Inter­national story on the spy ring, which appeared in the South Bend Tribune, did not carry Dr. Kang's name, leav­ing him a spy without dishonor in his adopted city. 
Meanwhile, the local FBI con­firmed for University public informa­tion officials that they were investi­gating Dr. Kang's curious disappear­ance and requested that the Univer­sity refrain from releasing any details about die mysterious chemist other than what had already been given to the Times. 
Things were quiet on the espionage front until Tuesday night when the Associated Press moved a spy story from New York which contained Dr. Kang's name. 
The wall of silence was initially successful, judging by the last line of Tuesday's ^VSBT-TV's 10 pm news announcer: "The State Department, the FBI, University officials and Uni­versity faculty members have refused comment on the case." 
^Vednesday morning when the re­porters of the afternoon South Bend Tribune took up where the paper's television newsmen left off, the wall of silence was slowly breached. The University's Public Information Office tried to honor the FBI's no-details request but did supply the only avail­able photo of Dr. Kang, a one-inch by one-inch photo clipped from a Per­sonnel Office copy of his University 
I.D. card. 
An aggressive news hunt by the Tribune, which secured interviews with Dr. Kang's landlord and with his chemistry mentor at Notre Dame, resulted in an accurate \Vednesday afternoon story which described how 
(Continued on page 10) 
DR. MEAD 
DR. AAAGEE 

THE PRESIDENT and lAETARE MEDALIST PETER GRACE 
Honors in all sizes and for all ages. 
using the "anti-commencement ap­

Commencement in.. . Hope out 

proach of Bob Hope who has been There were 1307 undergraduates who 
advising graduates not to leave col­went out, if not in total glory, at least 
lege and come out into the world, in a blaze of sunshine at Notre Dame's 
which he describes as a harsh and 
122nd Commencement, June 4. These rough place." Instead he chose to youngest degree-earners were joined play the game fairly, as commence­by 195 who took home masters cer­ment spediers should, and "to pre­tificates, 64 law degree winners and sent the meaning and significance of 69 who earned tlie title of "doctor" all a student has learned in four years as well as an important sheepskin. 

of college and make a projection of 

The early afternoon ceremonial on the bearing of that learning of the the University's central mall also saw life of each graduate and, in a more the presentation of honorary doc­generalized and comprehensive way, torates and tlie Laetare Medal along on the society of the future." with special commendations for three He noted that "assuming the re-faculty members. sponsi. -lity of such depth and breadth 
Sen. Eugene J. McCarthy (D-is not as difficult for members of the Minn.)j the commencement speaker, Senate as it might be for other per­told the throng of faculty', families, sons" because they are "not unac­friends and graduates that he wasn't customed to making rash judgments." going to take die easy way out by Getting down to the serious busi­
AT THE ONE HUNDRED TWENTY-SECOND COMMENCEMENT THE JUNE EXERCISES THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CONFERRED THE DEGREE OF 





DOCTOR OF LAWS 
HONORIS CAUSA 

On OLH-ER C. CARMICHAEL JR., a Church. Respected faithful trustee and a wise and good as a scholar of the­friend of this University. As chairman ology and philosophy 
of the board of and as a professor a large investment and rector at St. company, he is rec­Mary's Seminary, ognized nationally Cleveland, he be­for his leadership by came, in 1950, his peers. But his bishop of Pittsburgh, boundless energy and where the effective­keen intelligence ness of his labors on cannot be confined behalf of God's people caused Pope even by the detnand-John XXIII, in 1958, to name him ing world of finance. archbishop of Detroit. There he has 
Bringing & host of insights gathered shown Christian wisdom and charity from a spectacular and varied career, in handling the problems of an over­he works ceaselessly on behalf of edu­whelmingly complex archdiocese. But his cation, community service, and interest influence today extends well beyond in public affairs. A graduate of Vander-the borders of his own see. . , . Held in bilt University, he obtained his Ph.D. highest esteem by his colleagues, he was from Columbia University in Public elected, in 1966, first president of the Law and Government. He holds as National Conference of Catholic Bishops well, the LL.B. from Duke University and is one of four United States dele­Law School. Formerly dean of stu­gates to the Synod of Bishops assem­dents at Vanderbilt and president of bling in Rome in September. We cannot Converse College, he brings this splen­fail to honor him for his pastoral leader­did background to bear as a Trustee ship during a growing and changing of two universities and one college. , . . time for the Church in our country. . . . 
On ARCHBISHOP JOHN F. DEARDEN, a great priest, dedicated to the realiza­On CHARLES S. DESMOND, a truly tion in America of the new life of the distinguished American jurist and a 
ness at hand, he advised the graduates to "reaffirm your belief in the dignity of every person, your trust in hu­manity and your confidence in rea­son, sustained by faith and building on it." 
Joining Senator McCarthy in re­ceiving honorary doctor of laws de­grees were James E. Armstrong '25, retiring executive secretary of the ND Alumni Association; O. C. Car­michael Jr. of South Bend, chairman of the board of Associates Investment Co. and an ND trustee; Archbishop John Francis Dearden of Detroit; Charles S. Desmond of Buffalo, NY, retired chief judge of New York State and member of the ND Law School Advisory Council; Harold Howe II, US Commissioner of Education; Franklin D. Murphy, chancellor of the University of California at Los 
great servant of his state and of the r-—~g^-^lg— : nation. More than 
' ^^H^^^^^^ 1 quarter of a cen­
^^^^^^^^ i^^y "f this man 
^^^^^^^m ascended the bench 
•^^^^^^•^ of the high court of 
^^^^HV^ the State of New ^^•l^fl York. . . . Of this
I 
^H^^^^l man it may be truly 
^fi^^^^^L written: "He re-
r^^^^^^^^^H ceived the 
-il^^H^^I^H law from the mas­
ters of its tradition, informed it with 
his progressive spirit, his deep hu­
manity and his passion for justice, and 
passed on a richer heritage than he 
had received." But, in truth, it is too 
early to know the full measure of his 
already monumental contribution. His 
retirement from the New York Court 
of Appeals last year he has regarded 
only as a release for labors elsewhere. 
He now leads his state into a con­
stitutional convention. There he urges 
his people toward new frontiers of law 
reform and effective administration of 
justice. . . . 
On HAROLD HOWE II, a determined 
and scholarly educator who serves ad­
mirably, calmly and at the highest 
-T level the cause of 
education and, 
through the power 
; of education, the 
[ country and the 
; world as United 
I States commissioner 
'i of education. Com­
-bining wide exper­ience, sharp insight and broad vision. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 

Angeles; Lawrence Cardinal Shehan of Baltimore; and Edmund A. Steph­an '33, Chicago attorney who heads the reconstituted Board of Trustees of ND. A tenth honorary degree re­cipient, James A. Reyniers, founder and first director of ND's famed Lo­bund Laboratory for germfree animal research, was given his degree last month in the Tampa, Fla. hospital where he is being treated for an ill­ness. 
The Laetare Medal, conferred by the University annually since 1883 on an outstanding American Catholic layman, was given to J. Peter Grace, president of W. R. Grace and Co., New York. His citation recognized his outstanding leadership in business and religious, civic and charitable organizations. 
The outstanding lay faculty award went to Dr. John L. Magee, head of the chemistry department and assis­tant director of the Radiation Lab­oratory. Dr. Darwin J. Mead, asso­ciate professor of physics, received the Thomas P. Madden award for distin­guished teaching of freshman courses. 
In addition to these annual cita­tions. Dr. Harry C. Saxe, head of the civil engineering department, received a special award for outstanding ser­vice during the academic year 1966­67. Dr. Saxe was acting dean of the College of Engineering between the death of Dr. Norman R. Gay last October and the apptointment of his successor. Dr. Joseph C. Hogan, in May. 
Abundant Interest 
Construction hasn't begun on their new building, nor has their first class been called to order. But Notre Dame's graduate program of business admin­istration, now a little more than a year old, has students . . . and plenty of them. 
The fall semester will see 60 degree-seeking candidates form the initial class of the University's two year, full-time master's of business administra­tion program (MBA). What is im­usual is that these students were selected from more than 213 applica­tions. Dr. John R. Malone, assistant dean of the College of Business Ad­ministration, revealed that more than 900 requests for application material has been received since the program was first announced in 1966. 
It was also at that time that Notre Dame reported it had received one million dollars from Mr. and Mrs. John F. Healy, Chicago, to build a graduate business school. The new Hayes-Healy Center, to be erected im­

mediately behind the present Colli e of Business Administration Building, is also being financed through a grant by the H^th , Education and Wdfare Department under the Hi^e r Educa­tional Facilities Act. Constructioa is to get underway in late August with completion set foe September, 1968. Space for this September's MBA class will be found in the Rockne Memorial Loimge where experimental class­rooms have been biult to serve as the principal facility. 
The first class will be made up of only 10 Notre Dame undergraduates, the others are alumni of 35 other schools. Approximately, one-third have their degrees in business admin­istration, another third in social sci­ence and the humanities, while the remaining third received their training in engineering and science. 
The University's newest graduate effort, a program of 60 credit hours for the MBA degree will emphasize the development of the manager and his decision-making and problem-solving skills. Courses in the fimctions of analytical tools and envircmments of business will serve as problem solvers in so-called business enterprise work­shop. Its intent is to introduce actual business situations for a "clinical" analysis and solution. 
with a deep dedication both to quality in education and to equality of educa­tional opportunity, he represents one of America's biggest enterprises which is also one of its brightest promises and best hopes, . . . 
On EUGENE J. MCCARTHY, a distin­guished senator whose career has em­braced both college teaching and public ! _ j service. In 1948, he 
i moved from campus 
to Congress, enter­
ing the House of 
: Representatives from 
Minnesota's Fourth 
District. Ten years 
later, the people of 
I Minnesota chose him 
to be their senator 

and returned him again to the Senate in 1964. In the Senate, he serves on the important Committees on Finance and Foreign Relations. Jn the active and demand­ing life of a political leader, he finds time to dedicate himself to many worthy causes promoting the progress of learning and the welfare of mankind. Prominent in the leadership of the Na­
tional Conference of Christians and Jews, he has also given generously of his talents to organizations as diverse as the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Me­morial Commission and the Notre Dame Library Council. As author of three significant books on government end public affairs, he has identified the role of the Christian statesman in 20th­century America and has made public profession of his deep faith in the American political process. . . . 
On FRANKLIN D . MURPHY, one of our 
country's ablest university administra­
tors. The son of a distinguished physi­cian who helped to found the Univer­sity of Kansas School of Medicine, he'fol­lowed the parental example, becoming j at the age of 32 '"l dean of the Univer-I sity of Kansas School of Medicine. But not for long. After only 
three years, he was advanced to the post of chief executive of the entire University of Kansas, where he made a distinguished record of progress ttntil he assumed, in I960, his present post as chancellor of the University of Cali­fornia at Los Angeles. There he has presided over that rarest of contem­porary academic gardens, a peaceable kingdom, to the intense satisfaction of all concerned. . . . 
On LAWRENCE CARDINAL SHEHAN, a 
prince of the Church who is a native 
son of the Archdiocese of Baltimore which he guides, the cradle of American Catholicism. A priest for 44 years and a bishop for more than 20 years, he has been a forthright supporter of civU rights and a jngor­ous foe of racism. He has contributed 
to the emergence of a new deJftrine of Church-State relations both as formu­latoT — notably at the Second Vatican Council — and as practitioner, respect­ing the legitimate autonomy of the political order whUe combating the ad­vance of secularism as a substitute state religion. . . . The grandson of Irish immigrants, his life of service to the people of God has been a shining example of the courage, the vigor and the faith of the best of Irish-American Catholicism. 

On EDMUND A. STEPBAN, the chair­man of the Board of Trustees of the University of Notre Dame. ... His 
•"; late father, a great m..'-iS-'4 Notre Dame man of tf^^iyi an earlier era, was a 
warm and loving person who followed with concern and pride every aspect of development of his Alma Mater, and I who would have 

viewed our honoring of his son today as an almost unhoped­for culmination. The son is himself a Notre Dame graduate, of the class of 1933, with high honor, a Harvard lawyer, a devoted husband and provi­dent father of four boys and four girls. He is today a practicing attorney in Chicago, partner in a large, complex and wide-ranging legal firm of the first rank and highest reputation.... As chairman of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, he will put to the service of the University a subtle and sensitive mind, a courageous and steadfast tvill, and a warm and persevering heart. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 
The Great Spy Caper 
(Continued from page 7) 
Dr. Kang, who received his doctorate 
in 1964 from Tubingen Universit}' in 
Germany, had been hired by Notre 
Dame to do research in hydrocarbora­
tion mechanism. He had been rec­
ommended by two Tubingen profes­
sors and was described as a "com­
petent" scientist by the Notre Dame 
professor under whom he worked. His 
research, the Tribune noted, not only 
had no securit}' classification but also 
no immediate industrial application. 
It was apparent that if Dr. Kang 
were a spy, he also had pretty good 
cover as a research chemist. 
The calls came all day. Did Dr. 
Kang have a car? (No.) How do you 
spell that name? (There were two 
correct spellings, the Times and the 
one in Notre Dame's files — Dr. Kang 
Sungzong.) Did he teach? (No.) 
Why did not the University report 
him to police as missing? (No reason 
to suspect foul play; perhaps he had 
just quit his job.) Was he married? 
(Yes. Wife in South Korea.) If South 
Korea had whisked him out of the 
country', how does this square wt h 
U.S. law? (No one, of course, had the answer to this important question.) 
Campus wags were busy, and "Would you believe Che Guevera in the Physics Department?" became a corridor witticism. Wednesday night came with everj'one wondering just what strategic matters affecting na­tional security had brought a North Korean Communist spy to South Bend. 
Dr. Kang's reputation as South Bend's (and Notre Dame's) first spy was short-lived, however. The South Korean embassy finally broke silence, and on Thursday local news media were busy turning Dr. Kang from a spy into, rather, a minor national hero. Exonerating Dr. Kang as both a Communist and a spy, the embassy said he might have been in contact with spy ring organizers (without knowng they •^vere spies) while in Germany, but had redeemed his rep­utation by voluntarily rushing home to tell his government all he knew about the conspirators. He was free, to return to his academic pursuits in America, and, indeed, tlie South Korean government had given him a plane ticket Dr. Kang had reportedly accepted a new job at New York University, a position secured before The Great Spy Caper started. 
The Thursday South Bend Tribune cleared Dr. Kang in the same spot where it had made him suspect — the front page. Its story carried a good deal of personal material dug up the previous day: Dr. Kang was quiet, polite, took the bus to work, watched a lot of TV, often played the cello, paid his bills, and did not drink or go out \vith women. 

This story should have ended The Great Spy Caper, but wait . . . AP carried another dispatch Thursday night which thoroughly confused tlimgs by identifjing another man, Kang Kye-ho, arrested by South Korean intelligence, as a 30-year-old Notre Dame research chemist. Notre Dame had no Kang Kye-ho on its faculty and AP later said so. With two Dr. Kangs, one about to fly home a free man and the other in jail, it was a case of "Will the real Dr. Kang please stand up?" The real Dr. Kang, the embassy repeated, was a free man who would be returning to the States after he had finished help­ing his government crack the spy ring. AP apparently had niisidentified an­other Korean who was in jail. 
The Tribune quoted a 20-year vet­eran of the FBI as saying the Dr. Kang case was the "weirdest" he had ever run across. 
Asreed. 

JIM ARMSTRONG and BUD DUDLEY He now Rolls in a merry Olds. 



THE PASSING OF AN ERA 
So it isn't too much to say, Jim, that you are the embodiment of this high virtue of human decency, constantly trying to lift its level. As jvu leave us now . . . we praise you for it, love you for it and wish you the happiness of a new and unencumbered life with all our hearts. 
Frank O'Malley '32 June 10, 1967 
A 
BRIEF MOMENT of silence fol­lowed O'Malley's last words. Then, slowly, the expectant air drawn by the eloquent speaker was broken by applause that soon spread throughout the hall. A warm proud smile swept his face as he turned to his Notre Dame colleague of many years to im­part his personal wishes. This was the man Frank O'Malley and thousands of other ND grads have fondly come to know as the father of Notre Dame alumni, Jim Armstrong. After 41 years, "Mr. Alumnus" was retiring. In the Beginning. The evening was June 10, Saturday of Reunion week­end. For all but three of the classes at the surprise "Tribute to Jim Arm­strong" banquet, tiiere had been no other executive Alumni secretary'. The record shows, in fact, tliat he has been the University's first and only full-time director; though, in 1923, when the position of a lay Alumni secretar)' was created, Al Ryan '20 filled it part-time while also carrying on his duties as Notre Dame's chief fund raiser. 
Since his appointment to the Alumni Office in 1926 — a year fol­lowing his graduation from the Uni­versity and short stints as a writer for the South Bend News-Times and as 
ALUMNUS JULY 1947 AUGUST 
publicity writer for the school — Jim 
has seen Notre Dame's alumni group 
grow and mature as though it were 
his own child. Forty-one years ago 
the University's alumni numbered 
4,000 while today there are nearly 
43,000 graduates. In 1926, only 39 
local Clubs existed while in 1967 there 
are 183 geographical groups spread 
from San Francisco to New York to 
Rome to Bengal, India to Tokyo. 
Through all tliese years as Notre 
Dame's chief alumnus — which on 
occasion he has called "the best years 
of my life" — Jim has enjoyed a de­
lightful independence, realizing al­
most complete freedom of speech and 
press. 
".. . if there has been a muzzle," 
Jim recalls, "it has been only the 
quieting effect of the years . . . and 
if there has been a leash it has been 
the limited machinery which the years 

and the budget have permitted me 
to set up." 
Few people would be led to believe 

that the Association has been re­
strained, the least of whom is James 
E. Armstrong. 
"AVhen I look at our setup in 1926 and compare it with our present set­up, and our present budget, I some­times tliink that if Caesar was ambi­tious, then Brutus was right." Measured Amounts. Notre Dame has had its own ambitious leader in Jim Armstrong, not with the impassionate desire of a Roman emperor, but with a human quality inimitably his own. AVith charity — the like mentioned by Frank O'Malley — clairvoyant de­sign and a humor that appropriately flavored almost any situation, Jim Armstrong has pioneered programs yesterday and given sustained impetus to others that today credit his fore­thought. Among them are: 
•
 The Notre Dame ALUMNUS magazine which he has edited through 41 volumes, relating the story of Notre Dame as it grew imder six presidents. 

•
 Universal Notre Dame Night, inherited by Jim just two years after its inauguration. The annual affair has developed into one of the greatest public relations channels for the Uni­versity, a key focal point of Clubs, and a distinctive and different achieve­ment among colleges and universities. 

•
 UND Communion Sunday. Es­tablished in 1938 by the ND Club of New York City, the yearly observance has offered an increasingly construc­tive contribution to the broad area of religion and citizenship among Alumni. 

•
 Placement Bureau. Developed by the late William R. Dooley '26 as a partial function of the Alumni Of-


ALUMNUS JULY ^967 AUGUST 
• T the one hundred twenty-H second commencement, the June exercises, the University of Notre Dame conferred the degree of doctor of laws, honoris causa, on one who, with uncommon ability, dedication, serenity and wit, has served this University under sbc of its presidents. Ex­ecutive secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association since 1926 and only the second in its history, he has guided its growth from 4,000 to 43,000 members, from 39 local Alumni clubs to 183 centers of Alumni activity in this country and abroad. More important than this numerical growth has been the deejjening Alumni interest he has helped engender in continuing education and the advancement of this Uni­versity. As an able editor, as an unusually engaging speaker, he has during four decades told countless thousands the continu­ing, exciting story of Notre Dame. His Alma Mater and its Alumni Association are not alone, how­ever, in recognizing his leadership qualities. He holds the medal for Distinguished Service to Educa­tion awarded by Columbia Uni­versity's Alumni Federation and during 1962-63 he served as na­tional president of the American 
Alumni Council whose members represent virtually every major college and university in the land. Retiring a few weeks hence, he will always be welcomed v/ith. 
1925 1967 
A second sheepskin. 
affection on this campus and wherever Notre Dame men gather as a genial and gentle man who has helped this University con­vert its promise of yesteryear into the achievement of today. For all these things and particularly because he exemplifies the very finest qualities of a Notre Dame man, we proudly bestow this hon­or today on 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG South Bend, Indiana 
fice, the Bureau today enjoys a full-time status under the University, each year continuing to grow in importance and activity. 

•
 Notre Dame Foundation, per­haps the most significant measurable contribution of the Alumni Associa­tion. Since its founding — largely the inspiration and work of Harry Hogan '04 and Jim Armstrong — the Foun­dation has received from Alumni alone more than $24 million and, in total, more than $73 million in gifts, grants and bequests. 


•
 Class Reunions. Growing stead­ily each year, the annual Reunion reached a record 1145 registrants in June this year. 

•
 Alumni Senate. Less than a year old, the Senate brings together the presidents of all the Notre Dame clubs, becoming the fourth major unit in the University's family along with the administration, the faculty and the student body. 

•
 Continuing Education. By no means a new concept to Notre Dame Alumni, the program has gained new momentum with the beginning of the Annual Alumni Seminar and its "roadshow" performances for the Clubs. 


The list of tangible accomplish­ments under "Mr. A's" leadership in­volves still more. But to the many Notre Dame alumni and friends the intangible attributes belonging to him are the most memorable. And of the Intangible. Of Jim Arm­strong, many things can be said. In a humorous way but underlined with a good bit of truth. Congressman Joseph McDade '53 observed that Armstrong's current biography is false. 
"In actual fact," the Pennsylvania Republican commented at the tribute dinner, "Jim Armstrong's class was the Class of 1925 .. . and of 1926 .. . and of 1941 . .. and of 1955 . . . and of 1967, a class particularly for­tunate to have him as their most dis­tinguished member, because this year he is finally graduating." 
Further, McDade commented that Armstrong's marriage to Marion At-tick in 1927 "cannot possibly be true. Two years earlier he married the Uni­versity of Notre Dame . . . and to this love he has given most of the hours of the day of every day of the year for 42 long years." 
And, lastly, the Pennsylvania rep­resentative noted, "the statement that he has five children and 11 grand­children is the most misleading . . . In an age when we talk about the population explosion, it turns out that Jim does have five children and 11 grandchildren, but he also has some 43,000 foster children." 
n 
Tonisht a "Tribute." On his special night that Saturday last June, Papa Armstrong enjoyed the company not only of a great number of those foster children (1200 in all) but, in addi­tion, most of his own family. Three sons from California arrived in South Bend \vith their wives to join Mother Armstrong and another brother for an unexpected weekend with Dad. Brother Philip Armstrong CSC, a high school principal in Ghana, was the only member of the family unable to be on hand that evening. But this was a consideration not overlooked. 
Jim's own Class of '25, during a self-declared off-year Reunion, pre­sented Mr. Secretary with a check for an all-e.\pense-paid e.xcursion to Europe together ^vith a side trip to Africa and a visit wth Brother Phil. Jim, who officially left office August 1, plans to use the Europe-bound tickets early this fall. 
There were odier surprises for Jim Armstrong that night Instigated pri­marily by Jim Cooney '59, successor to the Armstrong office, and master­fully carried out by toastmaster Rob­ert Cahill '34, the unexpected ranged from congratulatory messages from President Lyndon Johnson and the Vatican to the presentation by the University of a $100,000 endowed scholarship in the name of James E. Armstrong. And in between, the Alumni Board, past and present, presented him \rith the keys to a 1967 Oldsmobile "98." Appropriately, the rider attached to the automobile and read by Alumni President Bud Dudley '43 wished Jim and Marion much joy and happiness with their new car, for as long as it may last, "and may his (JEA's) longevity far exceed the dealer's warranty." A New Generation. Though not likely to become heir to the "merry new Olds," Jim Cooney now assumes the proprietorship of the 99-year-old As­sociation jmd will be keeper of all 
BOB CAHILL and GUEST Secrets and surprises. 
that has evolved in the Armstrong era. A graduate of the University's department of communication arts, Cooney already has tenure at Notre Dame. After graduation in 1959, he joined the staff of the University-owned television and radio station, WNDU, and stayed as an announcer and newsman until 1961. 
He then moved across campus, taking up residence in the Notre Dame Foundation where he served as an assistant director for four years. In 1965 when Jim Armstrong's re­tirement plans were made known, the University began grooming the heir-apparent. In those two years Jim Cooney served as field secretary, co­ordinating programs and other activ­ities of the Alumni clubs. 
Now operating out of the second-
floor comer office from which Arm­
strong personally greeted so many 
Alumni through the years, Jim 
Cooney has come into possession of 
two claims — one legendary, the other "newly bom. The former is Arm­strong's fabled window which, for reasons still unbeknown to the former Alumni secretary, closed and creekcd at will. James the Elder merely ex­plained to startled visitors, "Oh, don't mind that. The Gipp just stepped out for a moment." 
For James the Younger the most recent iimnovation in the office is "a hot line," a valuable connection the new Alumni director has installed be­tween himself and a certain South Bend residence on Johnson Street. There, a recently-retired gentleman, calmly and with humor dispenses fresh confidence to the new generation. Mr. Alumnus to Ail. Jim Armstrong, whose 65th birthday nearly coincided with the date of his official retire­ment, molded a philosophy about the alumnus and his Alma Mater that has also indelibly impressed his counterparts from other colleges and imiversities. 
Just a month before he left office, Notre Dame's alumni secretary was called upon by the American Alumni Council (AAC) to deliver three major addresses at its annual national convention. Then, not satisfied with merely bidding adieu, the AAC be­stowed on its past national president an honorary life membership. 
Jim's message about Alma Mater has been the same throughout the years, whether addressing alumni con­ventioneers or a local NotreDsuneclub. His philosophy rings true and clear: 
"I have a conviction that the Chris­tian education of young men is one of the greatest fields of service and of challenge. Supplementing this is the conviction that Notre Dame, as an institution and as an ideal, en-
MARION ARMSTRONG and FAMILY 

A standing ovation for the Alumni's first lady. 
riches the whole stream of life as it is devoted to that primary purpose. I would like to believe that everyone else connected with the work shares these convictions because they are at once a constant stimulus and a con­stant reward." 
Perhaps no other words better state the spirit of Notre Dame's alumni program for the last 41 years. And no better words describe the endless labors of the man behind that pro­gram, Jim Armstrong, Notre Dame's Mr. Alumnus. 
The stimulus, undoubtedly, re­mained with him as did the reward ... a reward which Alumni from the earth's four comers pray will remain with him for many days ahead. In the words, again, of Frank O'Malley: 
/ know that we cannot 
outwit you, Jim, 
but tonight, at least, 
we can outbless you. 

To the Victors, the Trouhles 
Everybody knows nice guys finish last. A major case in point concerns Notre Dame alumni who are practicing journalists. 
The Catholic Press Association had songs of praise for Rev. John Reedv CSC '48 and John A. O'Connor '48 at its annual convention in May. But shortly after they got home with their top awards, they were hearing other singers, and the chants sounded more like folk protests — or maybe even a "funeral dirge." 
Father Reedy, CPA's top award winner, received a statuette of St. Francis de Sales for the most out-
JAMES COONEY Heir to Gipp's window. 
standing contribution to Catholic journalism during 1966. He was saluted both for his work at Ave Maria — which won the CPA award for general excellence in the magazine field — and for his efforts to improve the entire Catholic press through the Catholic Press Commission which he founded last year to study problem areas of the Catholic press. 
O'Connor, editor of the Delmarva Dialog in Wilmington, Del., saw his paper receive the general excellence award in its middle-sized circulation category of 18,000 to 45,000. 
But the next downbeats for the two winners heralded other tunes. 
"Father Reedy Fulminates" de­clared a headline in Triumph mag­azine. After a gasp and a hurried trip to the dictionary. Triumph read­ers went on to learn this "thundering" and "e-Kploding with sudden violence" was all about Father Reed/s opinion of a survey of priests by Rev. Daniel Lyons SJ of NYC. Father Reedy, answering the "triumphant" blast, said he merely "observed" (not ful­minated) that he had not found a single priest who had received the survey. 
The news about John O'Connor concerned his swan song. He resigned as editor of the Dialog, saying he no longer had any confidence in "local Church authorities in matters of the press." Explaining the tangled situa­tion surrounding his liberal diocesan weekly, he told the ALUMNUS, "The Church is just in transition and we're having a knock-down, drag-out battle." 
Bishop Michael W. Hyle of Wil­

mington bloded the renewal of G^Crainor^s ccAtract by asking for the rengnation of three of the editor's suppwters after a split vote of the paper's board of directixs had re­newed CCtxinor's contract. In re­taliation, dx more members of the board resigned and O'Connor quit, too. He will leave the paper Dec. 1. 
Newsweek called attenticm to O'Connors pli^t in a story on Cath­olic press troubles, July 17. It pointed out Bishop Hyle's excuse was "finan­cial problems" but "it was also clear that he was acting under pressure from Wilmington's conservative pas­tors, several of whom had petitioned him for O'Connor's removal from the Dialogue. The ouster of O'Connor is symptomatic of the malaise gripping much of the Catholic press," News­week said. 
Just so Notre Dame men can know who else they're likely to hear about, these others also won awards at the CPA meeting: Rev. Thomas McNally CSC '49 took home top honors for the second time in three years for his Catholic BOY and Catholic MISS which were cited for general excel­lence in the youth magazine field. 
Ken Woodward '57, associate re­ligion editor of Newsweek, received an award for his article on the identity crisis in Catholic higher education. Authority in the Church by Rev. John 
L. McKenzie SJ, professor of Geol­ogy, was chosen one of the five best books of the year. 
Lucky is Joel Wells '52, editor of Critic magazine. Perhaps he is safe from attack because he was only a finalist for the award for outstanding contribution to Catholic journalism. 
JOHN A. O'CONNOR A case of extermination . 
REV. JOHN L REEDY CSC . . and one of fulminolion. 

ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 
WALDAAAN HOGAN FACCENDA JMEANEY RYAN TUTT 
APPOINTMENTS  
This  spring,  the  University  an­ position of special assistant to the  Center.  His  doctorate  is  from  
nounced the appointments of:  president of ND.  Faccenda's prin­ Texas.  
Dr. Bernard Waldman to succeed Dr. Frederick D. Rossini as dean of the College of Science. A gradu­ate of New York U. with a BA (1934) and PhD (1939) he has been a Notre Dame faculty mem­ber for 29 years. He was an early exponent of civilian control of atomic energy and aided in the development of the atomic bomb. Dr. Joseph Charles Hogan, engineer­ing dean at the U. of Missouri since 1962, was named dean of the Colli e of Engineering. Author of several technical publications, he has conducted research in induc­tion motor design, power analysis and control systems. He holds an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering from Washington U., a master's from the U. of Missouri  cipal job is to work with the Uni­versity's Board of Trustees — the newly reconstituted governing body of ND and to work with the ad­visory councils of each of the un­dei^;raduate colleges, the law school and the library. Faccenda who earned a BS in mechanical engi­neering from ND and his juris doctor degree in 1957 frcwn Loyola U., Chicago, is the immediate past president of the ND Law Assn. and also served as president of the Alumni Association in 1964. Dr. John W. Meaney '40, appointed assistant to the vice-president for academic affairs and director of educational media. He will explore the area of radio, television and audio-visual materials generally as they relate to education. Meaney  Bro. Kieran Ryan CSC '45, to suc­ceed Bn>. Robert Sinnaeve CSC as director of financial aid and executive secretary of the Univer­sity's scholarship committee. Since serving on the faculty of St Ed­ward's U., Austm, from 1941-1953, he has been treasurer of the Con­greation of Holy Cross Brothers Midwest Province. He was instru­mental in the planning and con­struction of Holy Cross Junior Col­lege. Colin B. Tutt to serve as manager of The Morris Iim. He previously was manager of The Lakeshore Hilton, Baton Rouge, La., and re­ceived his hotel management train­ing in England and Switzerland. A fdlow of Britain's Hotel and Cater­ing Institute and a member of the  
and  a  doctorate from  the  U. of  has been on the faculty of the U.  American  Hotel  and Motel Assn.  
Wisconsin.  of  Texas  since  1962,  serving  as  and the American Society of Travel  
professor  of  radio-television-film  Agents, he has contributed his lit­ 
Philip J. Faccenda  '51, a  Chicago  and director of its academic pro­ erary talents to hotel and restaurant  
attorney,  who  assumes  the  new  grams for the Himianities Research  journals in Great Britain.  





Topside Briefs 
O'Meora to Remain Dean and $7800 from the University. Thirtj'-three of the Dean Joseph O'Meara has decided to put retirement boys who took part in last year's first experiment were off for still another year. Last February the Dean dis­back on Campus for more of the same: living in Lyons, closed plans to "step aside" as head of die Notre Dame eating in the University dining halls, studying under Law School after this year's June commencement, but coUege faculty members and getting acquainted with now he wiU continue in the p>ost at the request of the the Ufe of a£9uence which so seldom touches their door­University for another year, when a new successor will steps at home. The basic curriculum remained the be named. O'Meara, who is 68, has headed the Notre same — plenty of the Three R's — but the options 
Dame Law School since 1952. During the previous 31 offered this year varied considerably. Speech, drama­years he was engaged in the private practice of law 
tics, French, sociology and film-making were added. 
in Cinciimati and Columbus, Ohio. He is a graduate Among the notes of success for the program are these: of Xavier University -with a law degree from the Uni­for the first time several of last year's boys made the versity of Cincinnati. 

honor roll at their high schoob during the regular term; one of the graduates is spending this summer at a state 
Report from the Front 

imiversity in a summer opportunity program; one plans Revealing that the poverty battle might be faring better than some other national skirmishes. Dr. Richard J. 
to enroll at the new Holy Cross Junior College across Thompson says Notre Dame's Upward Bound project the way frmn ND; and another hopes to get a machinist has shown some significant achievements. "We don't apprenticeship. Still another has been nominated for lose all the batties," the director boasts with a hint of an academy in Massachusetts where he could finish his pride. This year there were 52 boys from disadvantaged high school education with grants from the US govern­homes in the area taking part in the program financed ment "We think we're winning some of the war, any­by $70,280 from the Office of Economic Opportunity way," Thompson says. 
H ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 
No Time For Picnics 
The good ole summertime still seems to be the good ole study time for a goodly nimiber of ole — and young 
— ND students. Registration for this "vacation" session was down about 200 from last year, but it still put 2622 graduates and 447 undergrads to the old grind. Wil­liam W. Dominic, director of registration, says there are 699 graduate laymen on Campus along with 206 laywomen, 250 priests, 197 brothers and 94 seminarians in graduate courses ako. The largest enrollment in the graduate school division is 1176 sisters. In the under­graduate schools, the breakdown is 397 laymen, 22 lay­women, six sisters, no priests, 15 brothers and seven seminarians. 
Nursing Home Plan Is a Winner 
An ND junior, Robert H. Morin, won a $500 third prize in a national architectural competition with the design of a nursing home that looks more like a series of ultramodern garden apartments. He is the only resident of Indiana and the first ND student to win an award in this competition which this year attracted 100 entries from all sections of the US and Canada. Spon­sored jointiy by Pittsburgh Plate Glass Industries and the National Institute For Architectural Education, it is open to architectural students and practicing archi­tects under 30 years of age. The theme of this year's competition was to design a nursing home, residential in character, minutes from a general hospital. 
Nine Merit NSF Grants 
Nine Notre Dame seniors won National Science Foun­dation predoctoral graduate fellowships in nationwide competition. Daniel M. Bums, Michael A. Gauger, Carl P. Houck, Kenneth J. Hupf, Louis J. lacovo Jr., Peter L. McAdam, William W. Stallings, James W. Truman and Jacques F. Yates received these fellow­ships in science, mathemadcs and engineering which support especially able individuals for full-time study leading to advanced degrees. The Fellows were granted $1800 for a nine-month period for advanced study in their major field at the college or university of their choice. The Notre Dame group was the 11th largest at any American college or university. 
Added to Laurels 
"Even when an idea's time has come, it needs a man to make it work. For the University of Notre Dame, and in many ways for all of Catholic higher educadon. Father Hesburgh has been that man." Thus began the citadon prepared for the honorary doctorate conferred by Fordham University in June on Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, president of Notre Dame. Father Hes­burgh ^so was honored with another doctorate at North Manchester (Ind.) College and the University's executive vice-president, Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, was given a doctor of humane letters at Belmont Abbey in Belmont, NC. Also honored with an honorary doc­torate was Dr. George Shuster, assistant to the presi­dent, at St Mary's College, Omaha, Neb. 
Rrst Nornion L. Gay Prize A%rarded 
John B. Haynes '67 of Syracuse, NY was the first re­cipient of the Norman L. Gay Prize, to be awarded annually in memory of the dean of the College of Engineering who died last October. The prize will go to the senior who, by his industry, manliness and hon­orable conduct, has done most for the life and character of the men of Notre Dame. Haynes, captain of ND's undefeated fencing team, also won the Byron V. Kan­aley Prize given annually to the monogram athlete judged an exemplary student and leader. 
Offlcers Join wnhi of < 
Army, Navy and Air Force units saw a total of 141 ROTC cadets and midshipmen commissioned June 3 on the University malL Tlie new <^cers included 72 from the Army, 27 Navy, 18 Marine and 24 Air Force. The ranking o£Bcer at the commissianing cere­monies was Maj. Gen. Harry W. O. KinnwL A former OHnmander of the Army's 1st Cavalry Division (Airmobile) in ^etnam, he is now deputy assistant chief of staff for force devdcqnnent in Washington, DC. 
One Homo lest, Anoliior Gained 
Major changes in the educaticnal setup of the Holy Cross Father^ Indiana Province will affect the popu­lation at Notre Dame. The docnrs have been closed far the last time at Holy Cross Hi ^ School Seminary while the Province's theological seminary. Holy Cross ColI^;e in Washington, DC, will move to the Campus. Both, actions are related to a decision to concentrate recruit­ment and training for the priesthood at the late hi ^ school, college and postcollege levels. Candidates for the Indiana Province will ccmtinue to be accepted and trained in the collies and seminaries of the Province at Notre Dame, Portland, and Holy Cross Fathers House of Studies in New Orleans and Holy Cross Soninary, Santiago, Chile. 
lay Trustees for tiio locBes, Toe 
In June St. Mary's Collie of Notre Dame announced the formation of a new 12-member governing board which will include lay members. Membership in the new Board of Trustees, formerly known as the Board of Reli­gious Trustees, will include the chief executive officer of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, the chief executive officer of the Midwest Province, the president of the college, three members elected by the Board from the Sisters of the Holy Cross and six members elected by the Board from the Board of Associate Trustees. The new Board of Trustees will bear fidl responsibility for S^nt Mary's College. Its major function will be to initiate and ap­prove general policies for the develt^ment of the college, to appoint the president of the college and to oversee the 
finances of the college. 
A President for the Profosson 
The University of Notre Dame chapter of the American Association of University Professors now has a new "boss." Dr. Edward Manier, assistant professor of phi­losophy, has been elected president for a two-year term. He succeeds Dr. John W. Houck, assistant professor of business organization and management. The chapter has 194 members, about a third of the faculty. Those who will be assuming offices with Dr. Manier are Dr. Harvey Bender, associate professor of biology, vice-president; Thomas Shaffer, professor of law, secretary and editor of the newsletter; and Dr. C. Joseph Sequin, associate professor of business organization and man­agement, treasurer. 
Be Prepared, '43efs 
The men of 1942 topped the 1941 Class in the second year of the Foimdation's Silver Amiiversary Bequest Program. Eighteen percent of the class—97 men — have listed the University as a bexieiactor in their wills. Last year's anniversary group had 16 percent of its members in this cat^ory. The mailed questionnaire does not ask Class members to specify the amounts ear­marked for Notre Dame, but a conservative estimate of the value of the bequests in the Class of 1942 is $36,100. The Silver Anniversary Bequest Program be­gan as an unofficial part of the 25th reunion activities last year and now seems to be a tradition to be stupassed by each succeeding anniversary class. 


dosses 

A MEMORABLE HOLIDAY 
Cor the 1145 alumni returning to Reunion '67 had much to offer, 
this year's class reunions, it must both in content and quantity, and have seemed like another three-day the diversity of planned and im­national holiday. Surprises and fire­promptu activities ke)'noted the entire works— both incendiary and non-weekend. e.xplosive — boomed the entire week­A Course of Study and Play. Thurs­end while signs, banners and flags day, while monogrammers clamored dressed the entire Campus in color. to the fairways and greens of the And a parade, complete with a band, Burke Memorial Golf Course, early early-vintage cars and a near legion Reunion arrivals attended the Annual of marchers, helped contribute to Alumni Seminar. This year's discus­what reunioneers termed "a weekend sion centered on the controversial and like they've never had around here timely issue: "Has Change Run before." Away with the Church?" Though 
Eleven classes converged on Notre less than 50 attended die two-day Dame June 9, 10 and 11. Among meeting in the Center for Continuing them — spaced in five-year intervals Education, those present came in for 
— were classes from 1917 to 1962; a healthy dose of diverse opinion while the Class of 1925, in a special from faculty and alumni on what's off-year gathering, honored classmate good and not so good about innova­Jim Armstrong who was retiring from tions in the Church today, (See the University after 41 years as its ALUMNUS feature, p. 30.) For certain, Alumni Association executive secre­most participants—regardless of their tary. opinions—^welcomed die exchange of 
ideas on liturgy, morals and Church 
authority. 
Friday, shifting their attention from 

the scholarly to the frolicking pur­
suits attendant any reunion, alumni 
clustered into groups for Class din­
ners. Each having its private program 
in a separate dining area on Campus, 
the classes called upon their various 
members. Campus personalities and 
South Bend area musicians to enliven 
the festivities. In most instances, elec­
tion of the new class officers was held 
with those who hadn't attended wish­
ing they had—after receiving their 
congratulatory wishes on being 
elected to five-year terms. 
Throughout that night, the early morning hours and most of Saturday, the lure of camaraderie brought re­unioneers together in tent bars, well stocked with kegs of beer and sundry refreshments. 
Representation at the three-day "bust" (to borrow the terminology of one class secretary whose constituency set some kind of beer-drinking rec­ord) included alumni from as far away as Tokyo and Guatemala and from almost every state in the Union. 
^Vell-known figures in the world of religion were noted in attendance in­cluding Archbishop Paul J. Hallinan '32 from Atlanta, Bishop John K. Mussio '25 from Steubenville, Ohio and Rabbi Albert Plotkin '42, Notre Dame's only rabbi. No Postponement. Ominous black clouds, that harassed reunion activi­ties with intermittent showers Friday, returned Saturday and unleashed a torrential downpour that flooded No­tre Dame Avenue and nearly leveled several class tents. Except for golfers, however, the abnormal rainfall failed to dampen spirits nor upend tlie schedule of activities which included several formal programs in die Center for Continuing Education. 
Among these was a morning session 
cussion on the changes of curriculum in each of the University's four under­graduate colleges. Dr. Thomas Stew­art '57, Notre Dame's assistant vice-president for academic affairs, launched the morning meeting by de­tailing many of the major changes that have taken place on Campus in the last year. 
Saturday afternoon Dr. George Shuster, assistant to Notre Dame's president, talked at length about the shape of today's higher education and 
DR. GEORGE SHUSTER From campus to marketplace. 
related many of the latest trends to specific programs at the University. The full house of reunioneers stayed on for still another hour to hear Dean Clarence "Pat" Manion '21 talk about his recent travels to the Orient. Con­cluding the program—and what would such a schedule be without it? —were films of the 1966 National Football Champions. An Unexpected Tribute. The three-
day festivities were just beginning 
to take their toll when shades of early evening fell, accompanied by the ear-crackling moan s of bagpipes. A band of Kilties was on Campus. And a parade was in the im­mediate offing. Rest for weary week­enders had now become only passing fancy. The best was yet to come. 
It brought a night long to be remem­bered by attending Alumni, a night Jim Armstrong surely will never forget. It was a night originally scheduled to feature the annual state of the Uni­versity message by Father Hesburgh. Instead the tables were turned and the traditional toastmaster for the eve­ning became the featured guest in a "Tribute to Jim Armstrong." (See ALUMNUS feature in "Potpourri.") 

Totally unbeknown to "Mr. Alum­nus," individuals and groups — from the President of the United States to 
DEAN AAANION 

the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley — had prepared for months to fete the University's first and only full-time alumni director. Their mes­sages of good \\'ishes were delivered in person or relayed by others, each praising Armstrong for his years of dedication and unselfish devotion to the University of Our Lady. 
Among these people, introduced by toastmaster Robert Cahill '34, were Robert Michaud, president of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club; Frank O'Malley, professor of English; Am­brose F. Dudley, president of the Alumni Association; Alan McCarthy, director of development of the Uni­versity of Michigan and immediate past president of the American Alum­ni Council; Congressman Joseph Mc-Dade '53 of Pennsylvania who deliv­
^^ 

entitled "Notre Dame Today" which A POSTCARD FOR "MR. ALUMNUS" brought alumni and faculty into dis-'42 and Armstrong, too. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 
ered the message from President John­son; Rev. Howard Kenna CSC, pro­vincial of the Indiana Chapter of the Congi-egatjon of Holy Cross who de­livered a message from the Vatican; and Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, ex­ecutive vice-president of tlie Uni­versit)'. 
For tlie guest of honor, the most immediate memorabilia gadiered from the evening's festiwties were a 1967 Oldsmobile '98 from past and present members of die Alumni Board; a $100,000 endowed scholar­ship in his name from the Universit)'; and a European trip from his class­mates. 
Personal congratulations from hun­dreds of well-wishers followed the 
SEPH ZLOCH "66. Miss Donna Kay McManus and LAWRENCE W. CONJ.AR '67. Miss Barbara Sue Van Lue and ROBERT A. SCHMITT '67. Miss Gayla Marie Marzotto and LESLIE JO­SEPH STEHMER '67. Miss Ellen Perficid Duffy and PAUL GORDON TOBIN II '67. 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Catherine Ann Mahan and TOM CREHAN '56, Mav 13, Long Beach, Calif. Miss Kathleen Scuddcr and LEO J. MOMSEN JR. '57, May 27, San Francisco. 
Miss Lillian Ann Butterfield and Dr. WILLIAM ALOYSIUS SCANLON JR. '58, June 3, Chicago. Miss Elaine Fchlig and JOHN P. EDWARDS 
KILTIE BAND A mist in the gloaming 
evening's banquet. And an equal number of messages ^vired in from all over the country awaited Arm­strong's perusal later that evening. As night grew short and Mr. and Mrs. "A" left for home, lights flooded tile campus billboard tiiat revealed "congratulations from '42." The mes­sage reflected the warm wishes of all Alumni that evening. . . . and a Lingering Thought. Reunion '67, after a record three-day marathon existence, closed witii the annual Alumni Mass, celebrated by Arch­bishop Hallinan. Before a filled Sacred Heart Church, the Atlanta prelate urged Alumni to make the Church "a living Church." He noted, "the world will not be saved in the pulpit nor in the sanctuary': it will be saved on Main Street, AVall Street, Broadway and in the suburbs and inner city." He concluded by declaring tiiat unless the Church is related to men and women in the marketplace, it can have no meaning. 


ENGAGEMENTS 

ifiss Dorothy Nicosia and ED COSGROVE '56. Miss Barbara Frances Chrapck and THOMAS F. BURZYNSKI '58. Miss Sj-nnora Bay and JAMES L. HAYES JR. '58. Miss Man- C. Dcmpsey and EDW.ARD AN­THO.VY LYNCH JR. '59. Miss Patricia L. McLoughlin and STEPHEN McMAHON '63. Miss Mar\- Catherine Bogosian and Pvt. THEO­DORE F. PINTO '63. Miss Susan Anne Pardee and JOHN STUART McCURDY '64. Miss Maureen Ann Naughten and JOHN ^VIL­LIAM SULLIVAN '64. Miss Marv Denise Carey and SHAUN ALLEN CO.NATY '65. Miss Mary Clare Alby and ROBERT T. MAR­KEL '65. Miss Anne R. Brodie and Lt NORMAN A. MANDEL '66L. Miss Sheila Brcnnan and Ens. WILLLAM HENRY McGANN IH '66. Miss Margaret Adah Sency and JAMES MAR­TIN MORROW JR. '66. Miss Nancy Lee Fitzhugh and WILLIAM JO­
'59j St. Louis, June 19. Miss Constance Mary Bishart and DUKE P. GIBBON '59. Miss Bernadette Mar^-ann Dee and DANIEL KLETTER '60, New York Cit^-. Miss Leah Ford and JOHN B. GREEN JR. '62, June 24. 
Miss Joan DcForest Candce and EDMOND ALOYSIUS COLLINS '63, May 13, Ridgewood, NJ. 
Miss Judy Lockridge and TIM HAIDINGER '63, Pasadena, April. 
Miss Mjrna June Walker and RICHARD K.AV.ANAUGH '63, Baton Rouge, La., May 20. Miss Sue SuUiran and CHRIS L.ANE '63, April 
29. Miss Margaret Hartnctt and KEN TELESCA '63. ND, June 17. Miss Vickie Jablonski and DICK WOODS '63, April 1. Miss Mary Ann Kotzcnmachcr and JACK COFFEY '65, Feb. 
Miss Mary Du-ycr Wxtcd and CHARLES RAYMOND HALL JR. '65, June 10, Elizabeth, NJ. 
Miss Kathleen M. Bayer and J.AMES G. HAR­NISCH '65, June 24. Miss ilary Carolyn Cremer and TIMOTHY KRISTL '65, June 3, Fulton, Mo. 
Miss Sandra Kalherine Ballingcr and RONALD PHILIP MEYERS '65, BSME '66, Notre Dame, April 29. 
Miss Mary Ann Rossii-urm and PAUL W. RAY *65, April 1, Detroit. 
Miss Susan Catherine Hopp and LEONARD JOSEPH SERAPHIN '65, Aurora, III., June 17. Miss Claudia Louise Brake and JAMES CRAIG 
TEDFORD '65, June 24, Burbank, Calif. Miss Karen Campbell and STEVE WERNER '65, May. Miss Kathy Nash and NORM DE WITT '66, JUNE 24, Kakimazoo, Mich. 
Miss Kathleen Sue E\-ans and EDWARD AL­BERT EISWIRTH JR. '66, June 10, South Bend. Miss Maril>-n Wchner and JOSEPH L. MAM­
MOLA '66, Notre Dame, ilay 17. Miss Sara Margaret Wilson and JOHN JAMES McDERMOTT JR. '66, May 20, Notre Dame. Miss Janet Varga and CHARLES L. BERRY 
JR. '67, June 10, South Bend. Miss Monica Marie Magdalinski and RICHARD JOSEPH CORBIN '67, June 3, South Bend. Miss Linda J. Moore and JOHN A. COTTER '67, June 10, LaPortc, Ind. Miss Mary Agnes Chmicleu-ski and MICHAEL GOLICHOWSKI '67, June 12, Notre Dame. Miss Marj- Frances Hosinski and ANTHONTf VINCENT LUBER '67, June 10, South Bend. Miss Georgia Quatman and JI.M LYNCH '67, June 17, Lima, Ohio. Miss Jo Carol Schelle and Ens. JEROME LEE MARGRAF '67, June 10, South Bend. 
Miss Donna Lorraine Sn^in and 2nd l.t. GEORGE JOHN SAWAYA '67, June 5, Notre Dame. 
Miss Christine Ann Kolcsiak and DENIS EUGENE SPRINGER '67, June 10, South Bend. 
Miss Lynne Ann StcfTaniak and WILLIAM ROY WILLARD JR. '67, June 6, Notre Dame. 


BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES STABILE '52, a daughter, Rosemarie, April 11. Mr. and .Mrs. BOB CRESPY '54, a daughter, Karen, March 28. Mr. and Mrs. YATES HAFNER '54, a daugh­ter. Hilar}- Mary, May 17. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES R. LOONAM '54, a daughter, Jamie, May 5. Mr. and .Mrs. BOB WRIGHT '54, a daughter, Kathleen, April 7. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN CASEY '55, a son, Daniel Joseph, Alarch 8. 
Mr. and Mre. CHRISTOPHER TIIOM.AS FLVNN *55, a son, Christopher Anthony, May 9. Mr. and Mrs. LUKE J. BRE.NNAN '56, a 
daughter, Maureen, May 2. Mr. and -Mrs. FRANK CONTE '56, a daughter, Kathy, May. Mr. and Mrs. LOUIS J. M.ALANDRA '56, a son, Anthony Joseph, Jan. 11. Dr. and Mrs. THO.MAS P. MEIRINK '58, a son, William Charles, May 2. Mr. and Mrs. JACK BEARD '59, a fourth child, Kathrjn Marie, Nov. 13, 1966. Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN JR. '60, a son, Francis John III, Jan. 18. Mr. and Mrs. DA.\IEL O'NEILL '60, a son, Thomas Michael, May 31. Mr. and Mrs. BILL HENNEGHAN '61, a son, Tim, May 19. Mr. and Mrs. CLINT BROOKS '63, a daugh­ter, Ellen Margaret, March. Mr. and_ Mrs. CHUCK HARTMAN '63, a daughter, Katherine Marie, May 6. Mr. and Mrs. TOM SCHNEIDER '63, a son, Feb. 10. Mr. and Mrs. TOM FRANCK '65, a son, Tom Jr., March. Mr. and Mrs. DENNIS KRISTOWSKI '65, a daughter, June 2. Mr. and Mrs. PAT ZILVITIS '65, a son, Brian Patrick, April. Mr. and Mrs. TIMOTHY O'NEILL '66, a son, Ke\*in, Jan. 9. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1S67 AUGUST 
Mr. and Mrs. MIKE TURNOCK '66, a son, Patrick Michael, April 5. 

SYMPATHY 
PATRICK MALONEY '16 on the death of his daughter. Sister Brigida, May 19- She %vas the sister of Rev. PATRICK H. MALONEY CSC '50, THOMAS MALONEY '52 and JOHN MALONEY '59. 
E. NEWELL DE CURSE '24 on the death of his brother, John L. Dc Curse '24, March 28. JOHN EGAN '28 on the death of his sister in March. ALFRED E. GALL '31, on the death of his wife. May 26. 
EDWARD W. KRAUSE '34, on the death of his mother. May 26. 
J. RICHARD LAMERE '49 on the death of his mother, May 9. Rev. PATRICK H. MALONEY CSC '50 on the death of his sister. THOMAS MALONEY '52 on the death of his sister. Dr. DANIEL P. COLLINS '53, on the dcatli of his mother. May 22. JOHN E. LAMERE '53, on the death of his mother, May 9. CHRIS MALONE '54 on the death of his father. 
THOMAS C. KELLEGHAN '56 on the death of his father, JAMES H. KELLEGHAN '26, May 14. 
SIL RESCINITI '56, on the death of his father, Xtarch 29. STEVEN A. JOHNSON '57 on the death of his son in April. JULIUS A. JODLBAUER '59 on tlic death of his father. May 20. JOHN ifALO.VEY '59 on the death of his sister. TERRY L.\LLY '60 on the deaths of his twin daughters, Kathleen, June 4, and Karen, June 6. 
Rev. CHARLES R. NOWERY CSC '60, on the death of his father, JAMES R. NOWERY •29. Sept., 1966. 
PATRICK J. POTTER '60, on the death of Iiis mother, Feb. 24, and his father, March 6. 


DEATHS 
JOHN 1. LAMPREY '06, St. Paul, Minn. FRANK PRYOR JR. '06, Pueblo, Colo., March 
31. A furniture merchant, he %v*as a 50-year mem­ber of tlic Alumni Assoc. He is sun-'ivcd by one daughter. 
Rev. BOLESLAW J. SZTUCZKO CSC '10, Notre Dame, May 24. The former pastor of parishes in Chicago and South Bend, he died of a heart attack in Chicago. He \V3S the oldest Polish priest in the Congregation of Holy Cross and was noted for his sermons and poetry. In 1964 he received the Polish Silver Cross of Honor from the legal Polbh government in exile in London, ile visited Poland in 1939 to develop interest in the Congregation of Holy Cross and was arrested by the inrading Soviet armies. He is suni-ived by 
ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 

two nephews and one niece. LEO J. CORBOY '13, Ashcville, NC, Jan. 29. He is survived by his widow. 111 Cambridge Rd., Ashcville. WILLIAM E. DENIG.^N '17, Waterloo, Iowa, May I. He is survived by his widow, 1008 W, 7tli St., Waterloo, 50702. AARON J. HALLORAN LLB '19, Springfield, Ohio, June 4. The former monogram winner is survived by his widow, 510 W. Harding Rd., Apt. B, Springfield, Ohio 45504. JOHN F. MCCARTHY '19, Butte, Mont., Jan. 
8. He is survived by his widow, 1017 Diamond St., Butte, 59701. 
LEO B. WARD '20, Los Angeles, April 29. He was a past president of the LA Club, Man of the Year and president of the board of directors of the Alumni Ass'n in 1950. He is survived by 
his widow, 178 S. Alta Vista Blvd., Los Angeles. RALPH WELCH SR. '22, Muscatine, Iowa, Aug. 14, 1965. 
PAUL WINTERICK '22, North Ridgeville, Ohio, April 30. He Is sur\ived by his widow, 33770 Floraline Ave., North Ridgeville. 
CYRIL J. OTOOLE '23, Cheboygan, Mich., March 29, 1965. He is survived by his widow, 119 S. E St., Chebovgnn, 49721. 
JOHN L. DE GURSE '24, Saratoga Creek, Calif., March 28. 
JOSEPH L. DESMOND '24, Nahant, Mass., May 12. A retired civil engineer, he is sur\*ived by his vvidow, 333 Nahant Rd., Nahant, IMO sons and a daughter. 
RICH.-\RD C. MILLER '24, Sa>-villc, NY. 

VINCENT D. SWEENEY '24, Chalkhill, Pa., May 20. He was a former newspaperman, directed the US Steel Workers Union for 25 years and edited the union paper. 
THOMAS J. BARRY '25. ^fA '45, Morgan Hill, Calif., July 30, 1966. He is sur\-ived by his widow, 2 N. Dewitt, Morgan Hill, 95037. 
JAMES H. KELLEGHAN '26, Chicago, May 
14. An economic adviser for several business firms, he founded J. H. Kellcghan & Co. for economic and stockholder relations in 1940. Before tliat he was a reporter for the Wall Street Journal. He published a weekly. Money Trends^ and wrote the study "Wage and Price Inflation and the Farm Problem." He is sun-ived by his widow, 5890 N. Kilboumc, Chicago; two sons, including THONL\S 
C. '56, and two daughters. Sister EUCH.ARIA 0'HAG.\N SC XL\ '26, Seton Hill Col., Greensburg, Pa., April 29. 
JAMES R. NOWERY '29, Washington, DC, Sept., 1966. He is swr\ived by a son. Rev. CH/\RLES R. NOWERY CSC '60. 
ROBERT D. FRENCH '30, Houston, Dec, 1966. JOSEPH H. MORRIS '31, Cleveland, June 3, 2966. 
JOHN B. McANULTY '34, Massapequa, Long Island, NY. May 27. A 20-ycar executive of the American Express Co, he was returning to the AEC exhibit at Expo '67 when he died at the helm of his cabin cruiser. He had recently been named director of the company's lounge for spe­cial visitors in the US Pavilion. He also managed their exhibit at the '64-'65 World's Fair in NY. 
He had made more than 75 trips to Europe and 
was a member of a US trade mission to £. Africa 
in 1960. He is stuvived by his widow, 26 Riviera 
Dr. East, Massapequa, and a daughter. 
WILLL^M J. POWELL '34, Massapequa. LI. 
NY, June 6. A former administrative asst. to J. 
Edgar Hoover, he was a lawyer for the Pinkerton 
Detective Agency. He is survived by his wife, 
156 Hampton Blvd., Massapequa, two sons and 
a daughter. 
MICHAEL M. SHEEDY JR. '35, EggertsviHe. 
NY and Caracas, Venezueb, May 8. He was plant 
mgr. and chief engineer of Vollmer Enterprises of 
Caracas and while he was in Venezuela worked 
as chief engineer for one of the world's largest 
sugar mills. He is survived by his wife, 153 Fair­
bwn, Eggertsville, four sons and three dat^hten. 
ROBERT J. FOGARTY '37-'38, South Bend, June 3. The manager of the Foley Adjustment Bureau in Elkhart, he is survived by bis wridow, 18275 Chtpstead Dr., South Bend, three sons and two daughters. 
RICHARD S. TOWNE '41, MS '43, Wheaton, 111., ifay 19. He was a nadonally knoivn research chemist and was employed by the William Wrigley Jr. Co. During World War II he was a research fellow with the National Defense Research Coun­
cil. He is sur%ived by his widow, 318 W. Lincoln A%-e., Wheaton 60187, and one son. 
HARRY J. RYAN '45, Sturgis, Mich.. May 4. The vice-prra. of Kingston Products Co., he is survived by his widow, 501 Mortimer, Sturgis 49091. (See a tribute from his classmates in the 1945 class notes.) 
WILLLAM E. AHLLS '50, LLB '51. South Bend, June ID. A former board of zoning appeals and area Plan Commission attorney, he was a past pres. of the county Society for Crippled Children and an elder and former trustee of the Sunnyside Presby. Church. He is survived by his widow, 210 S. Coquillard Dr.. South Bend, two daughters and one son. 
ROBERT J. KIENSTRA '52, iUton. EL, Jan. 
10. An executive of Kienstra, Inc., dealer in redi­mix concrete and concrete block, he died suddenly of a heart attack. He is survived by his widow, 1014 Henry St., Alton, III. 62003, and eight children. 
Count THOMAS W. P.ANG­BORN LLD *55. a member of ] the ND Associate Board of Lay Trustees, died at his home in i Hagerstown, Md. May 20. He | and his brother, the late John 
C. Pangbom, were the donors I of Pangbom Hall. He was a member of the ND Advisory [ Council for Sdence and Engineciins frotn 1947 to 1959. After receiving titles from both Pope I^us and Pope John, he was named a Papal Count by Pope Paul in 1964. He was chairman of the board of the Ktngbom Corp., world's largest manufacturer of blast cleaning and dust control equipment, until he sold the company in 1963 and founded the Piingbora Investment Co. He and his brother set up the $10 million Pangbom Foundation in 1944 to provide grants for char­itable, religious, educational and scientific pur­poses. There are no survivors. 
Lt. CURTIS R. BAKER '60, killed in Viet­nam Alarch 28. He is survived by his parents; Dr. and Mrs. A. J. Baker, 1700 W. Cedar, El Dorado, Ark. 
Capt. P.ATRICK L. H.ALEY '63, LaSalle, III., April 18. Capt. Haley was killed in Vietnam. He is survived by his mother, )frs. Louise Haley, 1415 Campbell, LaSalle. 
Sister PASCHAL OTTO OSB MS '64, St. Joseph, Minn., May 25. She was a teacher at the college in the Convent of St. Benedict and or­ganized the workshop for the elementary school. She also was diocesan superior. 
Miss HELEN WHITE, winner of the 1942 I.aetarc Medal, June 7. A professor of English at the U. of Wisconsin, Miss White was a well-known author and lecturer and national pres. of the American Assoc, of University Women. 


FACULTY DEATH 
Rev. ROBERT H. SWEENEY 
CSC '30, June 14, Ha>-ward, 
CaHf. He was former pres. of 
the U. of Portland and asst. 
to Rev^. John J. Cavanaugh 
CSC when he was pres. of ND. 
At the time of his death. 
Father Sweeney was director of 
West Coast missionary activi­ties of the Congregation of Holy Cross. He is survived by a brother. 
^9 
BERNARD VOLL "A million thanks" 

M^\M'^ The 1967 Reunion of the Class of 
• ^^ I m 1917, marking the 50th anniver­

" ^ ^ * " sary of its graduation, was one of the wannest and most rewarding of all our gatherings over a span of half a century. While I do not have the exact attendance figures, I can safely state that it was remarkable for the percentage of those living who were present. 
The program \%-as excellent and thoroughly enjoyed 

— from the first official gathering for the Class Picture in the elegant new Center for Continuing Education, through the Class Dinner Friday, the Mass for living and departed members of the Class celebrated by Father MICHAEL EARLY '17 Saturday morning, the happy Saturday afternoon as guests of BERNIE VOLL and hb son, William, who now occupies the Ironwood Road home with his family, and the inspiring Alumni Ban­quet Satiurday night which honored JIM ARM­STRONG, the beloved retiring secretary of the Alumni Assoc. 
'1 - Tf '^t^& 

Our Saturday after­
noon in the Vol! home 
was a hi^ spot of the 
Reunion. As usual, Voll 
hospitality shone all over 
the place. Informal en­
tertainment, led by PAUL 
FOGARTY, who per­
formed as master-of-cere­
monies in his inimitable style, included renditions of 
two of his famous Glee club solos by JOHN 'T)UKE" 
RILEY. There were also a much-appreciated talk by 
Coach Ara Parseghian and group singing. It was all 
enjoyed thoroughly. 
The party provided some of us with our first oppor­tunity to meet Ara, and we found him to be as great a fellow as he is a coach. It was interesting to observe surrounding him on a veranda several of the great stars of our day, some of them later renowned coaches such as CHARLIE BACHMAN, HARRY BAUJAN, ART "YOUNG DUTCH" BERGMAN, JOHN MILLER, CHET GRANT and, last but not least, JIM PHELAN, who was able to make the Reunion for the first time, and who came all the vray from Sacramento, Calif, to do it 
Paul Fogarty and DAN HILGARTNER presided at the Class Dinner, one of the features of which was the reading of a letter from Fr. JOHNNY REYNOLDS '17, later a member of the Holy Cross order and for many years now a Trappist monk. It was a pleasure to have as a guest at the dinner Fr. Con Hagerty who taught many of us in philosophy classes. 
Among the very welcome reunioners were three "adopted" members of the class, LOU KEIFER and GROVER MILLER, both of 1916, and SHERWOOD DIXON. They have attended many of our reunions. 
Finally, the closing of this report calk for a tribute to Bemie Voll, who has been our hearty and generous host during many reimions at his home. Members of our Class will agree imanimously that he is and always will be "Mr. Seventeen." A million thanks from all of us, Bemie. _ED MCOSKER 
REUNION KEGISntANTS: Charles W. Bachman, Harry C. Baujan, Carlcton D. Bch, Arthur Bergman, Leo Bcmcr, James Kenneth BoyIan» John E. Cassidy, Charles G. Corcoran, Sherwood Dixon, Oscar John Dorwin, Rev. &Gchacl J. Early, Joseph Flynn, Paul Fogarty, John J. Gany, Wm. Grady, John Guendling, James D. Hayes, Daniel £. Hilgartner Jr., Andrew J. Hubcr, Wm. Kennedy, Fred L. Ikfahaffey, James T. McMahon, Edward, J. McOsker, F^ul Meifeld, John M. Miller, Dr. D. 
M. Nigto, Wm. C. O'Brien, Leo O'Donnell, James Phelan, Charles Reagan, John U. Riley, Frands Rogers, George W. Shanahan, Iklathew £. TrudeUe, Leo J. Vogel, Bemaid VoU, Lawrence J. Welch. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 

,-Y«irCI«b*„»-er:S 

'^^ l I received from ROBERT L. 
^^^^^0 ROACH, Muscatine, Iowa. Al­
though he reported having had 

serious surgery shortly after Christmas, he says 
he feels OK now. The only distressing aftermath 
is that he is now on a strict diet. Had to quit 
smoking, other such pleastures and "no more 
visits with John Barleycorn or any of his relatives." 
Bob found the material on the 50-Ycar Club very 
interesting. 
Bob says he keeps busy with a number of 

activities—as board director of the Central Sute 
Bank and as chairman of the board of the 
Muscatine Gen. Hosp. Although the present 
hospital is only 12 years old, they are in the 
early stages of planning a large addition. We 
might well expect Bob to be engaged in such 
worthwhile activities. The community is fortunate 
indeed to have such an outstanding and dedicated 
citizen. 
We had a pleasant contact with NORMAN H. 

RANSTEAD recently. Norman lives at 124 N. 
Wolf Rd., Des Plaines, lU. 60016. He has been 
^ ^0^^ ^ ^^ k Here are some dates for ^ • M^ ^ J <i>e CI^ °[ 19>B <° "­
•
 ^ 4 I ^ ^ member. ORDINATION 

•
 ^^ • ^^ DAY: May 21. Rt. Rev. 


^ ^ ^ ^ Msgr. F. MONIGHAN, St. Joseph's Church, Gregory, S. Dak. 57533; June to. Rev. C. J. WILLIAMS, St. Mabchy Rectory, Rantoul, 111.; June, Rev. GEORGE HOLDERITH CSC, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556; Nov., Rev. R. W. Murray CSC, Corby Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
WEDDING ANNIVERSARIES: Jan. 2, Dr. NEIL J. "WHITEY" WHALEN, 1023 Cadieux Rd., Grosse Pointe Fark, Mich.; Jan. 4, WM. BREEN MCDONALD, 55 W. 5th Ave., San Mateo, Cal. 94402; Ftb. 4, WM. J. "PETE" NOONAN, Box 470, Pensacola, Fb.; Ftb. 19, Att'y EDWIN T. BREEN, 1542 Shcnvin Ave., Chicago, lU. 60626; Mar. 17, E. M. "WATERBIY" STARRETT, 419 Quincy St., Port Townsend, Wash.; Apr. 4, MAXIMILIAN G. KAZUS, 101 Knox Ave., Buffalo, NY; Apr. 15, LOUIS H. FOLLETT, 1303 W. Oak St., Norristown, Pa.; Apr. 15, JAMES L. SWEENEY, 1254 Milwaukee, Denver, Colo.; Apr. 19, JOHN J. WOELKERS, 1006 S. Wesley Ave., Oak Park, lU.; Apr. 21, LEO P. GAUSS, 5740 E. Loth, IndianapolU; May 29, MARCH F. "PREP" WELLS LLB '15, 1910 E. Taylor St., Bloomington, III.; June 1, Dr. EDWARD REYNOLDS, 497 Highland Ave., Maiden, Mass.; June I, PETER J. RONCHETTI, 1242 Cambridge Dr., Corpus Cbristi, Tex.; June 5, GEORGE F. FRANZ, Fennimore, Wis.; June 7, DANIEL E. HILGARTNER JR. PhB '17. P.O. Box 75, Harbert, Mich.; June 7, JAMES P. LOGAN, 2951 S. FiUmore Way, Denver, Colo.; June 16, RAY C. "BUTCH" WHIPPLE, 373 Western Ave., Joliet, lU.; June 20, ALLAN W. FROTZSCHE, 575 Washington Ave., Elyria, Ohio; June 25, GEORGE E. HARBERT, 1800 3rd Ave., Rock Island, 111. 61201. 
1919 
THEODORE C. RADEA^KER Peru Foundry Co., Peru, Ind. 46900 
1920 
JAMES H. RYAN Apt. 314, 2470 East Ave. Rochester, N.Y. 14610 

1921 
DAN W. DUFFY 1030 Natl. Gty E. 6th St. BIdg. Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
retired for a few years but still manages ta keep active. His services arc always in demand as a consultant in the field for which he received Ids schooling at ND. 
WALTER L. CLEMENTS '14 502 W. Navarre, South Bend, Ind. 46616 
ALBERT A. KUHLE '15 117 Sunset Ave., LaGronge, 
III. 60525 
We also had a pleasant surprise in the foim oC a note from L. D. KEESLAR who resides at 11 Hazard St., West Palm Beach, Fla. 33406. Having lived in Chicago throughout his worldng years, he watches our weather and remarked about our cool spring. Members of the Class of '15 who returned for their Golden Retmlon in June 1965 will recall seeing L.D. there. 
EDWARD F. RIELY who fives in ICnonk, XL 
More Wedding Anniversaries: July I, THOMAS 
H. KING, 446 Kedrie Dr., East Lansing, Mich.; July 7, HARRY C. BAUJAN PhB '17, 2069 Rustic Rd., Dayton, Ohio; July 19, ARTHUR J. "YOUNG DUTCH" BERGMAN '17, 3910 Rose­mary St., Chevy Chase, Md.; Aug. I, PAUL J. FOGARTY PhBJ '17, 5555 Sheridan Rd., Chicago, m.; Aug. 1, CHARLES W. BACIOIAN LLB '17. 11 Sunset Lane, Pompano Beach, Fla.; Aug. 2, LOUIS E. WAGNER, 17 Wood St., Danbury. Conn. 06812; Oct. 8, HUGH S. CARROLL, 338 Mountain View Ave., San Rafael, Calif.; Oct. 9, CHARLES W. CALL, 1047 BOtmore Dr., Winter Haven, Fla.; Oct. 26, JAMES G. WALLACE, 1132 BcIIevue Ave. Syracuse, NY 13204 Oct. 30, JOSEPH T. RILEY, 715 Hackley, Muskegon, Mich.; Dec, EDWARD J. KENNY JR., 74 Cameron Ave., Hempstead, NY; Dec. 2, ElK WARD R. MCDONNELL, 316 Woodland Dr., 
GEORGE WAAGE 3305 Wrightwood Ave., Chicago, 
III. 60647 
Council Bluffs, Iowa; Dec. 24, PAUL E. EDGREN, 701 Culberton Dr., Oklahoma Gty, Okla.; Dec. 30, B. A. MUNECAS '16, 776 Georgetown St., Rio PieditK, Puerto Rico 00927. 
BIRTHDAYS: Aug. 8, ALVIN H. BERGER '15, R.R. 2, Sturgis, Mich. 49091; Aug. 15. JAMES F. HANLON, 1551 St. Paul St., Denver, Colo. 30206; Aug. 22, THOMAS D. MOTT JR. 511 W. Summer Ave., Spokane, Wash. 99204; Aug. 27, JOHN L. REUSS, 909 Orland Dr., Ft. Wayne, Ind.; Sept. 3, LOUIS H. FOLLET, 1303 
W. Oak St., Norristown, Pa. 19401. 
Florence, wife of "CHICK" W. BADER '19, 5185 Broadtvay, Gary, Ind. wrote Fr. WILLIAMS follows ND activities very carefbUy, espedaliy footbalL Sayi he saw sevnal games at ND bit Ul and abo the game at Noeihwenem. He planned to be at this year's Renaioa and to see 

•aae of the games later in the year. 
Those of yon who have read the Ifuch-i^iril osoe ol the ALtijiMtia must have been gratified with the showing the members of oar class made in connection with the 1966 Annual Afaonni Fmid. You win recall the stress placed upon the per­centage of. Ahmui paitidpation—i.e., that the percentage of Afannni giving is rccogiuzed na­tionally as an example of Alnmni loyalty, under­stanSng and snpport. It is a very effective means of winniog non^hmmi support. You may be sare the Umveisity is gratefid for your generosity. 
—Auzn A. KtTHtx '15 

REUNION REGISTRANTS: Rev. Charles L. Doremns '06, Qaade Sorg '10, James F. Redding '10, William Schmitt 'ID, Fred Steers '11, C. Byron Hayes '13, Rev. Angnstine Jones, O.S.B. representing: Keith Kenneth Jones (father) '15, Joseph Kenney '15, Timothy Galvin '16, Fat Maloney '16, Grover MiUer '16, Lou Keifer '16. 
—from Tucson—that they are biends of JOHN 
L. REUSS, 909 Orlando Dr., Ft. Wayne, Ind. and that John is not enjoying the best of health and had to return home. . 
JAMES P. LOGAN, 2951 S. FOhnore Way, Denver, Colo. 80210, reports he has retired for the second time and is going to just fish, garden, read and loaf, which prove that the "ole nuler" is enjoying good health. 
CHARLES W. CALL, 1047 BUtmore Dr., Winter Haven, Fla., another track man, reports: "JASPER LAWTON 'II, together with Mrs. L., visited us here. Hb ND career dates back to when the 'minims' were a part of the education set-^pu While in coDege he lived with the Adelsperger family just off campus, where there were nx daughters—of whom Mis. Call is one." 
Ex..Lt. Gov. SHERWOOD DIXON, 121 E. 1st St., Dixon, HI. 61021, reports: "A good number of old timers—students in the years just before WW I—plan to return to ND this year and have a good long visit. Among those wh* ten me they plan to attend are J.ACK GARRY. JDf SWEENEY, Jui^ CUFF O'SULUVAN and MACK CULLEN." 
Appreciate card from Rt. Rev. M^r. F. P. MONIGHAN, St. Joseph's Church, Gregory, S. Dak. 57533. 
With FRED L. STEERS '12, had hnch with JAMES E. ARMSTRONG '25, editor, and JOHN 
P. THURIN '59, mg. ed. 
Caned on Rev. CHARLES DOREMUS who is looking and feeling great. We drove around the campus and were amazed at an the huge buildings erected and those under construction. 
Wen, these are my 1,000 words for this isme. May you an live to be "a hundred" and eqjoy the best of health. Peace. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS: James L. Sweeny. George Waage. 
Our 45th Amilversary Class ReunicMi is now history. It was a grand success as has been the case with every 
1922 

one of ourfive-year reunions in the past. A total of 55 men of '22 made the trip to the Campus. Long-distance travel honors go to LAWRENCE "BUCK" SHAW and JERRY JONES of California, E. JOHN HILKERT of Arizona and FRANK BLOEMER JR. of Florida. 
We deeply regret the absence of all who did not attend . . . especially those who were prevented by illness from attending. Our endearment and grateful appreciation go to those who could have stayed home because of a physical disability, but refused to do so. A distinguished service citation should go to our Reunion director, J. FRANK "RANGY" MILES and his capable staff of South Benders mcluding FRED DRESSEL, PAT MANION, PAUL PADEN, PAUL SCHWERTLEY and A. HAROLD WEBER and others for all of the fine things they arranged for the Reunion. 
Our best wishes and thanks go to JIM ARMSTRONG, retiring Alumni sec., for his 
ALUMNUS JULY 1947 AUGUST 
DR. AAATT WEIS AND DEAN CLARENCE "PAT' AAANION Fellowship at Friday's Class dinner 
FRANK MILES AND CLASSAUTES A special presentation to Jim Armstrong 
AN HONORARY MEMBERSHIP IN LAW ASSOCIATION Presented by Jack Higgins (right) to Harold Weber for his great support of the Law School 

wonderful cooperaticm and guidance over a period of 42 years. 
JOHN THURIN, managing ed. of ALUMNUS, gave us a big lift in the field of publicity. The same goes for Dur Class Pres. J. RALPH CORYN who arranged for sketches by an artist friend used in our publicity. Who can forget our genial Class treas. and keeper of the Mass fimd Dr. MATT WEIS as he gives his report of ste\vardship? Lectures by Dr. GEORGE SHUSTER and DEAN MANION were very well received. Con­sider the kindness of HAROLD WEBER in arranging a gift booklet titled "Mama Went to War" for each Class member. The authoress, Mrs. PAT (Gina O'Brien) MANION very graciously autographed the individual copies. 
The men of '22 enjoyed the Campus motor tours to view new construction at St. Mary's and ND. Rangy Miles directed a baseball squad workout for his class­mates as in past years. Rangy still has lots "on the ball." 
Also, JOHN PAUL CULLEN, VINCE HANRA­HAN and RAY REICHERT performed admirably. The football men were present in force — so loyal and cooperative in all '22 Class matters. On this occasion, they paid very special tribute to one of our finest, CHET WYNNE, as did all the nonfootball men who love Chet — a real gentleman and friend of every classmate. 
These Class officers were elected for a five-year term: J. Ralph Coryn, pres.; Dr. Matt Weis, treas.; GERALD ASHE, sec.; and VPs (East) Vincent Han­rahan; (Midwest) Chester Wynne; (West Coast) LAWRENCE SHAW; and (Soudi) Frank Bloemer Jr. 
. A. "KID" ASHE 

REUNION REGISTRANTS: Dr. Edward N. Anderson, Hcartlcy Anderson, Gerald "Kid" Ashe, Raymond Bladi, Francis Blasius, Frank Bloemer, Gerald C. Bnibaker, James A. Carmody, Pierre Champion, John R. Coryn, Charles A. Crowley, John P. CuIIen, Jerome Dixon, Fred B. Dresscl, Bro. Finbar, Rev. George B. Fischer CSC, Cyril B. Files, Robert Galloway, Edward J. Gottry, D. Chester Grant, Vincent Hanrahan, John T. Higgins, E. John Hilkert, James V. Jones, R. Gerald Jones, Raymond J. Keams, George G. Kerver, Leo J. Lovctt, Thos. McCabe, Clarence Manion, Leo R. Metjger, J. Frank Miles, James E. Murphy, Daniel J. O'Connell, Thos. E. Owens, Paul V. Padcn, Paul Pfohl, George 
E. Prokop, John S. Rahc, John B. Reardon, Ardo I. Rcichert, R. R. Reichert, Dr. C. J. Sawyer, Paul J. Schwertlcy, Daniel L. Sexton, James C. Shaw, Lawrence T. Shaw, Morgan F. Sheedy, Walter Shilts, Clarence R. Smith, A. Harold Weber, Dr. Matthew Weis, Daniel Young. 
1923 
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER 1667 Riverside Dr., Apt. A, South Bend, Ind. 46616 
KEUNION REGISTRANTS: Paul Castner, Cor­nelius Pfeiffer. 
1924 
JAMES R. MEEHAN 301 S. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 46601 
ALUMNUS JULY ^967 AUGUST 

It was the best—this 42nd reunion and CLARENCE "PAT" MANION in his talk, "A of ours! From Bishop JOHN Trip to China and the Orient." Both talks were in the 
1925 

KING MUSSIO's inspiring talk to Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. These 
Archbishop PAUL J. HALLINAN's homily at the Alum­
ni Mass Sunday morning, it was a perfect weekend! 

With only 500 words allowed for our "wrap-up" of the weekend, I quote from Bishop Mussio's talk: "So it is that my one year at ND has given me much the same inspiration to meaningful action, as do your four years in attendance here. The spirit of ND is not a matter of how long or how much but rather of how deeply you drink of it. And we are here today surely in an atmosphere different from that in '25, certainly surrounded by a physical, material development that makes us feel a bit strange and even lost perhaps. But yet we know we belong here . . . because we carry vnth us something that neither time nor out%vard change can exile or make obsolete. 
"Wherever and whenever men get together, they always end up discussing what it is that makes ND unique among the universities. Just what is that in­gredient of her spirit that seems to catch fire in the hearts of all who walk her halls? Perhaps again I can lend some aid to this study simply because of the fact that, though I am a one-year man, I still hold close within me the strength of her spirit. Whatever you may think, I am convinced that the core of the ND spirit is nothing but one of gratitude. And gratitude is the seed of love." 
JIM ARMSTRONG was presented a check by HANK WURZER for $2,500 for his trip to Europe. He and his wife Marian will go to Europe and to Ghana to see their son Philip who has just been made principal of the CSC Brothers' School. 
Saturday's Class Mass was said by Bishop Mussio assisted by Rev. JOHN LYNCH CSC. All of us were delightfully inspired by the singing of the CSC Brothers' choir, directed by Bro. DAN KANE CSC, son of our own JOHN KANE. 
JACK SCALLAN introduced both GEORGE N. SHUSTER in his talk, "Updating Catholic Education," 
Insertion of the yellow the Iowa<Quad Cities 

t^vo events were open to all Alumni. A fine crowd showed so much interest that Dr. Shuster's program moved right up to Paf s time and Pat's question and answer period could have gone on to the Alumni Ban­quet time. Jack Scallan's handling of both talks was masterful, so that both the speakers and audience went back to their halls satisfied that this sort of thing will siurely be part of every reunion. 
The Alumni Banquet, emceed by BOB CAHILL (who, incidentally, did a tremendous job) will be cov­ered in another secticm of the ALUMNUS. DON MIL­LER emceed our Class Dinner and gave a fine testi­monial to Jim at the Alumni Dinner. Jim's family was Sown in for the banquet much to his surprise. Jim was presented a car by the Alumni Board members of the past 40 years. The University set up a $100,000 scholarship fimd in the name of James E. Armstrong. 
Your secretary and his wife would like to thank his thoughtful classmates for the beautifully engraved silver tray, pre-jj ^ sented by DON ^^^ MILLER at the Class Dinner. la m especially grateful to the other oflS­cers and members of die Class of '25 for their wonder­ful cooperation in helping make this our best Reunion. We will always remember our 42nd! 
—JOHN HURLEY 

REUNION REGISntANTS: James Anmtrong, John A. Bardey, Jerome BenninsT, Leo J. Boettingerj Maurice Boland, Jos. P. Burke, Dr. Cyril Caldwell, Lawrence Casey, Herman Centlivre, John W. Courtney, John 
R. Droege, Robert K. Gordon, Thos. Goss, Leo Grace, Clare P. Hafel, Clarence Harding, Francis Howland, John P. Hurley, Clarence Kaiser, John Kane, Bernard Kesting, George Laughlio, Elmer Layden, Bernard Livergood, George Ludwig, Rev. John Lynch CSC, Francis P. McFadden, Gerald Miller, Dr. William R. Molony Jr., Frank Murray, Armando J. Porta, Robert L. Ross, J. W. Scallan, Wm. Seidensticker, Frank Steel. John P. Traynor, James W. Wrape, Henry C. Wurzer. 
 region and will receive Academy Advisory Board; and treasurer of the 
cards did some good silver plaques at a banquet on May 3 at the Des Moines Club at present. 
as I had tM'o replies. Hotel Fort Des Moines. "He was campaign chairman of the Des Moines 
I am quoting below "Klein is a member of St. Augustin's Catholic Community and War Chest Campaign in 1943 
an article that ap­Church. For five years he has served on the and has served as a directcnr of Catholic Char» peared in the lowa-Des Kloines National Bank executive committee of the NCCJ in the Iowa-ides. Publication regarding HAROLD P. KLEIN: Quad Cities region. "Congratulations to Mr. Klein on such a fine 
"Harold P. Klein was one of three Des Moines "He is presently vice-chairman of the Urban award." men named as winners of national au'ards from Renewal Board of Des Moines. In the past he JOE HYLAND sent the following interestins the National Conference of Christians and Jews has been a member of the Mercy Hospital new : **StiU live on Staten Island; play golf 'for dbtinguished service in human relations and Advisory Board and its president in 1937-58; pres­whenever I get a chance; have no lip for the to the cause of brotherhood.* This year's' winners ident of the Dcs Moines Chamber of Commerce comet anymore but sustain my interest in music were chosen by post recipients' of the at\'ard in in 1943 and a director; member of St* Joseph by incking away at the piano now and then, 
1926 
ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 
sdf-Uught about 35 years ago. My oldest boy Kfr. Shea said. 'That way they can't fiD them Detroit briefly before bectmiing sales manager of MIKE *57 is on tbe sports staff of the Richmond, with water and drop them out the windowk.' tbe Washington Statier. Va. News Leader; next boy PETE '62 is a teacher '*Mr. Shea has found it necessary to offer "In 1950 he was appointed executive assistant 
at Port Richmond HS; and youngest son Steve solutions and directions as a resident manager manager of the St. Louis Statier and in 1952 is a student at Fairlcigh Dickinson. I'll retire of the Hilton chain and the Statier chain before it became resident manager of the Cleveland Stader. next year, if not sooner, after more than 25 years for the past 14 years. A year later, he moved to the same job in New at Gaieral Aniline & Film. I read ALUMNUS with '*Now 64, he retires on Jan. 1, and plans to Yorii City and %vas there until 1961 when he mixed emotions. The names evoke a lot of beauti­travel and catch fish with more frequency. returned to Buffalo." ful incniones, but what changes! Can you imagine ''De^ite his whitening hair, he could pass for ED BURKE'S son has been picked by the a merger with St. Mary's? We used to play for a man 10 years younger and the Class of 1926 at American Dental Assoc, for a summer sttidy dances there and the g^ls danced with one research on saliva. Randy was one of 25 chosen another." firom all dental students in the US for this honor 
I talked with JERRY McDERMOTT just as he J. N. GELSON and he will attend Colorado State U during the was getting packed up to leave on a vacation to Ireland. He told me that JOE SHEA had retired 
Gelson & Lowell, Inc., 200 E. 42ncl We received word of JIM KELLEGHAN's death from the Statier Hilton in Buffalo Jan. 1. Jerry St., New York, N.Y. 10017 May 14. The Chicago Sun-Times had the follow­
sent me an artide from the Buffalo paper and ing in the obituary: **He founded J. H. KcUeghan I am quoting excerpts from it: & Co., 120 S. LaSalle, in 1940 for economic and stockholder relations. He was an advisor for the 
"Joseph B. Shea never goes home from work. In­Notre Dame seems premature. Before Notre Greyhound Corp., Beatrice Foods Co. and other stead, he lives with his job as resident manager Dame, the native Buffalonian had attended Nardin of the Stader Hilton, on call 24 hours a day Academy and Canisius High School. *I started mth firms. Earlier, he %vas with Doremus & Co., and formerly u-as a reporter with the Wall Streetto direct the operations of the 1100 room hotel the Statier here in 1927 as a tube dcrk,' he Jommat. Mr. Kellcghan published a weekly. Moneyoff Niagara Square. From his I6th floor suite and said. He advanced through several jobs here bis mezzanine office, "Six. Shea faces problems over a 10-year period and left Buffalo in 1937 to 

Trends, and wrote the study, *Wage and Price much like military command: from the strategic become Chicago sales representative for Statier 
Inflation and the Farm IVoblcm.' to the tactical. Hotels. Four and one-half years later be became ''Survivors include the widow, Angela; two sons, '*One tacdcal solution applies to happy-go-sales manager of the Detroit Statier until he was Thomas C. and Kevin, and two daughters, Mrs. lucky conventioneers. *We always make sure the drafted into the Army in 1943. After a tour in Moira Broemmelsiek and Una KcUeghan." 
REUNION REGISTRANT: Arthur Haley. 
bottoms are cut off the plastic laundry bags,' Alaska, he was discharged and went back to 

lected. For the designated Reunion purposes, $313.23 was spent, leaving a balance of $526.77. This sum has now been deposited in the Old Second National Bank of Aurora. We will hereafter have a High Mass said every month for all deceased members of our Class and will also have a Mass offered at the time of death of each Class member. I hope the list of deceased members vnll not grow at too fast a pace during the next five years. 
Undoubtedly, many classmates who were unable to attend the Reunion will want to contribute to the Mass fund. Checks may be sent to the sec-treas. (32 S. River S t Aurora, 111. 60504) and I will send proper acknowledgment. 
The weather for the Reunion, unfortunately, was not the best. We will all remember the downpour that took place during our chicken box lunch Saturday noon. Fortimately, we were under a tent; but if it hadn't been A court of mad hoHers for the heroic actions of JOE GARTLAND, JACK JUDGE LUTHER SWYGERT GRUNING, MIKE SWYGERT and DAN CUN­NINGHAM in holding on to the tent poles for half Our 40-Year Reunion, the most an hour to prevent them from collapsing, we still would successful of all, has come and have been bad off. These gallant four were commended 
1927 

gone. Those in attendance had no by everyOTie present, although I am compelled to report trouble shedding tne years from 1927 for three days. that no one rushed to relieve them. The only question After a few hours of renewing friendships Friday after­now is whether they should be rewarded with a citation, noon, we enjoyed a Class Dinner in the Morris Inn. monogram or honorary degree. We all agree that they Approximately 85 of our classmates returned. are entitied to seme recognition. 
At the dinner Dr. George N. Shuster, asst. to the The annual Alumni Banquet for all Reunion classes pres. of the University, let us glimpse into the future Saturday ni^ t was in honor of Jim Armstrong, the of the school. He outlined the plans for greater ex­retiring Alumni sec Jim has been the chief guiding pansion of the graduate school and indicated that be­spirit of the Association for 41 years, and he richly fore too long there \vill be more general admission of deserves the gifts and expressions of appreciation which girls, at least at the graduate level. His talk was infor­he received. I am sure we will particularly miss him. mative and stimulating. It is interesting to note that, outside of the 1926 Class, 
MIKE SWYGERT finished his successful tenn as our Class has been served by him the longest. We all Class pres. and DAN CUNNINGHAM was elected to join in extending to succeed him. Your sec-treas. was reelected. him our wishes for a 
The most significant development at the Reunion long and happy retire­was the establishment of a Mass fund. As was an­ment nounced in the last letter before the Reunion, a supple­The Class Mass mentary fee of $10 \vas collected at the dinner. This Saturday mraming was was for the purpose of our special menu, to give gratui­celebrated in Alumni ties to the students who served us during the weekend Hall by our classmate, and to establish the Mass fimd. In all $840 was col­Fr. HARRY RYAN. 


m..;'V" 
^ •^'* A 


i^#^^¥ ^1 

The server was JOE BELLA MARL\. Father Ryan city edit(»r of the Hiorf/or<f Tnncjr. 
is stationed at Burlington, Iowa and we were all priv­Our next Reunion is five yean away. Many d us 
ileged to have him as the celebrant will not see one another until then. We must not lose 
A few days before the Reunion, I received word contact durii^ the intervening period. I hope that yrai 
that GEORGE GORDON had recently suffered a will keep me advised of your activities and I will try 
stroke and was in St. Joseph Hosp. in South Bend. to report them as recdved. 
Several classmates called on him, and we are glad to Before we put thou^ts of the 40-Year Reunicm out 
know that he is recovering nicely. of our minds completely, I am sure we all join in ex­
pressing our heartfelt thanks to DICK HALPIN and 
When I got back to Alumni Hall Saturday night, his committees for thdr tireless efforts in making the I was handed a telegram from WILLIAM PAT Reunion the terrific success it was. 

CLARKE. He advised that he was ready to leave Costa 
—CLARENCE RUDDY 
Mesa, Calif, for the Reunion but had been in an auto­

mobile accident a few days before his intended depar­REUNION KEGISTKANTS: Enuaett BUTOB, Joseph A. Beattk, Chariei Beretz, Edwin Bcrkery, Elmer BcstcB, Harry M. Biedkea, Eugene Brennan, 
ture and ended up in the hospital. He says there is 

John Brinbnan, Wm. Bioderick, James S. Brown, John P. Batler, Wm. nothing seriously ^vrong with him and he hopes to be E. Carter, Maurice Cohen, J6hn Conroy, FranUin Conway, Wm. J. Corbett, Daniel Cunningham, John Duley, Anthony F. Dean, Wm. 
with us in 1972. 
Dcgnen, Joseph P. Delia Maria, Wm. Dotterweich, Albert L. Doyle, Thoa. Dunn, Bartholomew Favero, Marcellns Fidirer, Wm. Finncane, Nol 
Many of the Reunion celebrants came a long way, 

Galone, Joseph A. Gartland, John D. Geary, John Glaska, Charles several from Texas, many from the East and a good Goslin, John E. Gruning, Richard Halpin, John Halinn, David P. Hickey, Wm. Holland, Robert Irmiger, Herbert E. Joacs, William D. Kavanantdi, 
number from the West. MIKE McDERMOTT and 
Thos. Kenny, Eugene Knoblock, Regis I. Lavelle, Harry G. LeStrange, DAVE HICKEY deserve the greatest commendation Harold T. McCabe, Wm. McCuUongh, Walden McDade, Michad McDermott, Edward McKenna, Edward J. Mcljnghlin, James J. because they came all the way from California. McNeUe. Raymond tiarelli, Charles W. "Rnky" Martin, Frank X. Masterson, A. W. Miller, Arthur J. Monaco, Francis Moran, Edward J. 
FRANCIS T. AHEARN has received an award for 

Mullen, Dr. George Mullen, Thos. Nash, Jos. Nulty, John J. Nyikos, outstanding contributions to better human relations Thos. E. O'Connor, J. Frank Oehlhoffen, Charles O'Neill, Ermin Reichert, John Reidy, Clarence Ruddy, Edwin Ryan, Rev. Harry Ryan, Clyde from the National Conference of Christians and Jews Schamel, Lt. CoL George Schill, James Sheerin, Patrick Size, John (Hartford, Conn, chapter). He is mgr. of the Insur­W. Slattery, John J. Slocum, Alban Smith, Horace G. Spiller, John E. Sullivan, Luther Swygert, William L. Travis, Walter Vahey, James ance Information Office of Connecticut and is former Vallcly, Tass Dever Waterston, Dr. Ernest VHlhefan, Donald Wnkiai. 
1928 
CARO L u s OUE-was attended by a number of *28 classnutes. A South American e^don of Fr. BIARK FITZ­LETTE died Feb. 22 Ho\vie also is a member of the newly recwganizcd GERALD'S excellent book, Tht Common Mmthgt in Florida where he board of trustees which now controls ND. Labor Prognms, h bdog published in Spsuodsh by taught school and Rev. MARK FITZGERALD CSC and your Limoia Wiley Co. in Menco. woriied at Aerodex, class secretary got together in May with LEO : CHARLES DUCEY, deputy supreme kni ^ U Inc. BOB MOHLMAN died April 7 in Lafayette, WALSH while attending a conference of the the Knights of Cohnnbus, qwke at a Kmshts td Ind. Bob attended all of our reunions and a Industrial Relations Assoc in Detroit and with Cohmibus-Blasonic tfimicr where JOHN ROBIN­number of our annual *28 Class cocktail parties yiNCE WALSH and Kaley wlule partidintins SON was toastmascr. They diicuascd plans to including the last one in 1966. JOHN EGAN in a manpower conference at the U. of IQincHS. return for the 40th year Reinuoo next June. ad\-ised me of the death of DR. JOSEPH A. Leo continues as a member of the Blichigan Labor JOHN CULUNAN wrote Iran Biidgepovt, CONWAY who took his pre-mcflical studies at Mediation Board where he has served under three Conn, that having read JIM SHOCKNESSys ND from *26-'28. He received his degree from governors. Leo sees FRANK DONOVAN reg­profile in the B^irch-Apnl ALimictTS, he was Harvard Medical and Dental Schools. ularly. VINCE WALSH had just received a card moved to renew his dax tics. John is ua^ and 
I am sure every classmate responded to ART from BILL KIRWAN from Bulgaria. Vince b ei^aged in general law practice. He sees SGHEBERLE's letter by offering their prayers for advised that Rev. JIM McSHANE SJ expects to Minnesota JOE DUNN '27 who keeps Johm the recovery of his brother. Rev. JOHN return to Honduras soon. Vince also called my infonned of campus and Alumni doings.. I was SCHEBERLE '29, from his paralysis following an attention to the 1966 annual report of Mont­pleased to hear that LARRY CULUNEY, xe­accident in 1965. gomery Ward which included a picture of JOE covenns from serious illness, re turned nt cany 
HOWIE PHALIN, chairman of the board and BRANNON and stated that no one knows the April to his duties with the FDIC. chief executive officer of Field Educational Enters Phoenix retailing market better than Joe. ART DENCHFIELD has jcnaed a large reilty prises Corp., received an honorary doctor of laws I noted references in the press to an historic -organization. The Keyes Co., 357 Miracle Mile, degree and delivered the graduation address on dnl rights decision by US District Judge JOSEPH Coral Gables, Fla. He dcab in psapiily in any Memorial Day at St. Frocopius Col. where he P. KINNEARY which enjoined Governor Rhodes area of Dade County. Art will <ctnm in Jane is a member of the College's board of trustees. from entering into public works contracts with for our leuxuott. ED KfcKEOUN, president of the Development building firms that draw their workers from unions I was pleased to see FHIL Fl'ION*s dao^tcr Advisory Board at St. Procopius, had a dinner with discriminatory policies. The NAAGP called Margaret do an outstanding job oa TV as a for Howie following the commencement which it "a landmark decision." member of the St. Mary's team at the G£ 
College Bowl. 
BILL DWYER is very active as a member of 

the board of governors and as chairman of the 
nominating committee of the Chicago ND Club. 
He %vas responsible for the excellent turnout of 
'28 men here on UN D Night. 
Two of our classmates who are Democrats came 

through in great style in the recent election. 
BERT KORZEN was elected to the Board of 
Appeals. FRANK CREADON is the first Democrat 
ever to be elected as a trustee in Riverside, 111. 
FRANK CREADON and Afay saw JOHN 

COLANGO, JOHN WALLACE and JUDGE 
CARBERRY in California recently. 
Class President BERN CAREER returned to 

ND in June for the graduadon of his son and to 
work out plans with ED QUINN for our '28 
Cocktail Party following the Michigan State game 
Oct. 28 and our 40th year Reunion on June 7, 
8 and 9, 1968. Ikfark your calendar at once for 
The Class of *29 
mourns the death of 
JAMES R. NOWERY 
^29, and sends a 
promise of remem­

brance of his soul in our prayers to his son. Rev. 
CHARLES R. NOWERY, CSC '60, 4001 Hare-
wood Road, NE, Washington, DC 20017. "Shorty" 
died in September, 1966. We will attempt to 
obtain more information for Jim's many fond 
friends. 
We wish also to express our sj-mpathy to Mrs. 
Francis L. Zappone, £ 524 Baldu-in, Spokane 
Station C, Washington, on the deaUi of her 
husband, FRANCIS L. Z.\PPONE '29, Dec. 30. 
We will remember him in our Alasses and prayers. 
Your secretary is grateful for this biographical 
information from CHARLES R. von SOLBRIG 
MD, pres. and administrator of the 150-bed von 
Solbrig Memorial Hosp., 6500 S. Pulaski Rd., 
Chicago. You may recall Charles as a pre-med 
student, as a member of the ND Band and 
Symphony Orchestra, as well as %vinner of a 
monogram on Rocknc's track team. Charles 
received his BS from the U of Louisville Med. 
School in 1929, and bis MD from Chicago Medical 
School in 1932. He interned at South Shore Hosp., 
Chicago. 
Until 1942 he was teacher of surgery at Chicago Medical School, then spent 1942-45 as orthopedic surgeon with the Army, partly at the 41st E\'acua­tion Hosp. overseas. He attained the rank of major. He was decorated with the Purple Heart and the Bronze Star medal, also four Batde Stars and four overseas ribbons, 194-^-45. 
He has been acdve in the American Legion 0^ past pre^dent of Wilbur Rocder Post) and was the 1964 winner of their citation for meritorious scrwce. Charles is the inventor of the von Solbrig Bone Band, Intra-medullary Rod, Rod Inserter and Rod Extractor, as well as author of 12 articles on orthopedics. He is a member of the staff of nx hospitals, besides von Solbrig Memorial of 
1929 
1930 
DEVERE PLUNKETT O'Shaughnessy Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

^m ^0^^ ^fl^^ ^m Your class secretary ^M ^^ ^k ^^^m I^^ been on the quiet 
I ^'^B ^v I ^^^^ ^°^ ^^^ p^^ 
I ^I^F ^^^F I months, but I have ac­
quired a few bits of news here and there about tou-n. What I would like, of course, is a greater response around the country on the tear-out cards found regularly in the ALUMNUS. 
First of all, congratulations to AL STEPAN and JEROME CROWLEY on their membership in the new Board of Trustees of ND. 
Fr. Donald CahiU, son of WALTER E. CAHILL, celebrated his first Mass, April 30, at St. Francis Xavier Church, Wilmettc, III. Walter had been hospitalized about six months ago but now is enjoying excellent health again. He heard from BEN OAKES who is now publidty dir. for the San Francusco soccer team. 
SPIKE McADAMS has left Chicago and is now linng in Triangle, Va. Also seen reccnUy was BERNIE LAHEY who is now retired from mili­tary service and li\ang in Chicago. Our Class was represented by the following at UND night: RAY 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY 6415 N. Sheridan Rd., Apt. 1007 Chicago, Illinois 60626 
these two important Class get-togethen. Zt is mr 
tmdcistanding that VIC FISCHER and JOHN 
ANTUS also had sons graduating. Were diere 
otheis? 
I had a card from GEORGE CRONGEYER from the Taj &fahal. He visited Greece, India, 
•the Orient and Hau-aii. VINCE CARNEY wrote from Mexico and from the Expo in MontieaL JOHN EGAN of Wellcsly, Mass. is now leliied from Wm. Filenes' Sons Co. where he was associated for 38 yeaxs. He enjoys raising and crossing orchids in his large hot house. 1 -was sorry to hear of the death of his sister in March. 
which he is founder and chief of staff. He is a 
member of the major medical sodcdes, the Inter­
national College of Surgeons Hall of Fame, Theta 
Kappa Psi, Theta Nu Epulon and the Masons. 
He married Dorothy Hochstedt in 1959. They 
have three sons, Charles William, John and Ter­
lance Michael. 
We have a new address for JIM CURRY, who 
remarried in November, 1966. It is Power Horn 
Hill Road, Brookfield Center, Conn. 06805. You 
vnll recall that this is a first anniversary year for 
Jim. He retired May 1, 1966. His father Martin 
died in &Iay '66 and his wife, Kathryn, died 
suddenly a month later. We trust that this sum­
mer mil be kind to him. 
LARRY STAUDER Engineering BIdg., Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Your secretary completed his 30th year of 
teaching at ND in June. Son LARRY STAUDER 
U wus graduated (again). He now has a BSEE 
to hang beside a 1966 AB. Larry H was the 
tympani player of the N D Alarching and Concert 
Band this year and found time for his best 
academic year, part of it in hb dad's classroom* 
He plans to continue at Purdue as a teaching-
assistant in EE in the fall. 
We have news of another EE, JIM KENNEDY, 
a designer of aircraft hazard warning lights for 
use on chimneys, antenna towcn and the like. 
Jim supervises the installation of his equipment 
which in recent months has meant trips to Garden 
City, SD; Peoria, Lockport and East Rochester, 
111., and Stillwater, Minn, among other dttes. 
Apparently no small part of Jim's problems is 
caused by the weather and by limitations in trans­
portation fadlities. Invariably severe winter 
weather, a truck strike, a fog or an electrical 
storm add spice to his long and busy days and 
COLLINS, SEYMOUR GROSS, JACK SCHMIDT, 
JIM MULVANEY, GENE VALLEE, HOWARD 
BEASLEY, BERT METZGER and Gen. Chair­
man NICHOLAS J. BOHLING. Nick is due con­
gratulations for the superb program presented 
which was highlighted by FATHER HESBURGH 
and Ray Bolger, Decency Award winner for 1967. 
D.WE RUSK phoned and had hoped to make UND Night. He was hospitalized reccndy with a cardiac condition, but is doing well at the mc^ ment. Dave is FE instructor at Austin HS, Chi­cago, and is due for retirement soon. He sends greetings to all classmates. 
^^^ 
JAMES T. DOYLE 1567 Ridge Ave., Apt. 308, Evansfon, III. 60201 
RICHIE BARBER, great friend of JOHNNIE BURNS, died April 10 after a lingering iUness which prevented his making our last reunion. John had written me about Dick and also called JIM MULVANEY the night he died. 
Word was also received of the death of JO> SEPH H. MORRIS, Cleveland, June 3. Please remember our deceased classmates in your prayen and Classes. 
Hitd a note from BUD GIES, now living in So. California, who is in regular contact with his campus buddy, ED SHEERAN, of nearby Long Beach. 
Dr. JOHN WALSH joined the staff of the hos­pital ship, SS HOPE. He served as a qwdalist in OB and gynecology when the ship gave medical 

GENE O'BRIEN wrote concerning a book review of mine which he had read in America, Gene continues as senior VP with Suburban News­papers, Inc. in Hopkins, Mirm. The company has expanded to 31 weekly newspapers. Gene planned on joining JOE KINNEARY and JOHN FONTANA in a viat with TROY BONNER and JACK CANIZARO at Jack's atmual "mule bar> becue" in Misnsdpiri. Joe said they were looking forward to the occasion as a warm-up for the Class Retmion in June 1968. 
JOHN FONTANA reported that the '28 Class had the largest representation at the Columbtis, Ohio UND Night dinner where JOHN IGOE was the M.C. Father JIM McSHANE wrote that CHARLEY MURPHY bought tickets for him for UN D Night in Los Angeles. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS: J. Patrick Canny, Fhnip Cenedella, William Daily, Charles Topping, 
n^hts. 
Jim's technical paper entered in the applied 

lighting competition of the Illuminating Engineer­
ing Society will appear in the Journal of the 
Society. Jim and Elizabeth's family of 12 includes 
three college students—Bob, a student in law 
school, U. of 10. at Urbana; Henry, at Illinois' 
Chicago Circle Campus, and Mary, at St. Mary's 
Col., ND. 
JOHN S. RIORDAN '29 has a change of 

address from Chicago to 14330 Parker Rd., Lock-
port, in. Dr. CORRIN H. HODGSON, formerly 
addressed at Rochester, Minn., reports his new 
address as 49-E Pleasant Lake Rd., St. Paul, Minn. 
JAMES M. O'TOOLE's address is 1500 Han.'ard 
Dr. NE, Albuquerque, NM. 
NORM McLEON writes, "my wife Flo and I 

cel^rated our 36th wedding anniversary by flying 
to the Orient to visit our eldest daughter Jeanne, 
a teacher at American Air School, Green Valley, 
Tokyo. We flew 25,286 miles while visiting 
Anchorage, Tokyo, Hakone and Kyoto, Japan; 
Taipei, Taiwan; Bangkok, Thailand; Singapore, 
Malaysia; Manila, Philippines and Hong Kong. 
We stopped four days at Honolulu. We have 
four of nx children married and have 12 grand­
children. I am still in charge of management 
div., US Small Business Administration, Cleve­
land." 
DR. PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW, on leave at 

Univeisity Col., Dublin, Ireland, had the pleasure 
of an invitation and visit with Eamon De Valcra. 
In closing need we remind you that we are 

planning on a Class of '29 get-together immediately 
after the Oct. 28 game with Michigan Sute? 
We have less than two years to wait for the 
1969 Reunion. My evaluation of the activity of 
the Class indicates that it will be one of our 
most successful and most enjoyed. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS: James M. Curry, Eugene N. Dolan, Gaylord Haas, Cletus P. Schneider, Lawrence Stauder. 
teaching-treatment in Colombia. 
illANKLIN SCHUELL was the subject of a busness profile in the South Bend Tribune. Frank owns his own buuness which provides excellent and complete landscape service. 
I understand that SPIKE SULLIVAN is trying to assist a classmate in presenting a book to the Memorial Library. This is a very rare volume and now overdue 35 years. 
JOHN W. ZABACK was presented a distin­guished service award by Kent State U. John, of Ashtabula, Ohio, has been president of the Ashta­bula Area College Committee since 1958. 
I talked to BOB GORE while in Florida. He reported on his brother, FITZ GORE, BOB CON­NESS and JOHN SULLIVAN who are all li\-ing In Fort Lauderdale. Bob also mentioned seeing Rev. WILLIAM CRADDICK CSC, whom he thought several classmates might remember. 
I hear from FRED SWINT, formeriy of Fre­mont, Ohio, now linng in Nashville, Tenn. He is in the steel business. Now that he has his family raised he is threatening to make a trip up north as wrell as attend our next Class Reunion. 
HARRY KENNEDY was in town visiting witii GEORGE COSTELLO and boUi attended the CNd-Timers Ftxitball Game. 
With the changes in the ALUMNUS, secretaries have had to limit their news. But please do not let that keep you from sending one or two notes a year for our column. I would like your com­ments on the changed ALUMNUS and other new facets of the University. Warmest wishes to all. REUNION REGISTRANTS: Alfred Grisanti, John 
F. Saunders. 
Congenial co-host NAPPY NAPOLITANO 
The Reunion weekend was great 
— for those of you who were there, 

1932 
no comment is necessary. For the unfortunates who missed it, the whole story of it cannot be told in a few hundred words. It was one of the very best we have had. 
It was great being with Archbishop PAUL HALLI­NAN at all the sessions, and hearing him sav the Class Mass — it was concelebrated %vith Rev. JERRY WIL­SON CSC and the hall rector assisting. The Arch­bishop later stopped in Cleveland to receive the degree of doctor of humane letters at Western Reserve. HARRY BURGER was his constant companion during the weekend. 
PAUL O'TOOLE said his son Paul Jr. was ordained last month and has been assigned to a parish in Chicago. 
LEO CLARKE admitted, very readily, to having 12 grandchildren. HERB GIORGIO was showing pic­tures of two beautiful little daughters — undoubtedly the youngest children of anyone there. LARRY SEX­TON gave the report of the fabulous doings of TOM MEHAFFEY. DON RYAN and BILL POWER re­ported on their daughters who are nuns. Multiply these snatches of conversations by 100 and you wll know what happened for three days. 
CLIFF PRODEHL did his usual wonderful job of handling the Reunion. He was ably assisted by Fr. JOHN WILSON, NAPPY NAPOLITANO and MIKE MOORE. Cliff has done this three times and has just about worked himself into the permanent job. 
BOB LEE came the farthest distanc^^ying in from 
Honolulu. He visited his brother. Judge MAURY LEE 
'34, in Chicago while on the way. Many were there 
for the first time since graduation, inclu(^g PORKY 
LAVELLE and CHINK DOLAN. 
A note of sadness crept in when it was amiounced 
that BILL KIRBY's wife died last week after a long 
illness. It was a sobering thought to realize more than 
100 members of the Class have died since graduation. 
The latest one not previously reported was MAURY 
MURRAY who died last summer. JOHN LITCHER 
was with him a few days before he died and said he 
had been ill for some time. 
MIKE CRAWFORD expressed regrets that he could 
not make it this year. He said his son Denny now has 
two children and lives in Lakewood; his son Jerry has 
finished college and is working for the county engineer; 
his daughter Ginny is a student of Baldwin AiVallace 
Col. 

One of the highlights of the Reunion -was the Class Dinner which had a fine program. Pres. IKE TERRY, after considerable ribbing about the margarine laws of Wisconsin, was reelected president for another term. FLORENCE McCARTHY was elected secretary. 
—JIM COLLINS REUNION REGISTRANTS: George Arehart, Gilbert Augustine, Paul Beldcn, Wm. C. Blind, John J. Bognar, Salvatore Bontempo, Harry Burger, Jos. H. Carey, Daniel Cassidy, Leo T. Clark, Paul Clark, James 
K. Collins, John Collins, Eugene Connelly, Frank Consolati, Anthony Conti, John Cox, Eugene Coyne, Dr. Paul A. Dailey, Charles Doerr, Martin E. Dolan, Len Donoghue, James H. Dubbs, Jos. J. Dunn, Leonard Dunn, Francis Ernst, Dick Fabrycki, Lawrence Fischer, Henry J. Gajkoski, John Geddes, Herbert Giorgio, Anthony Giuifre, Robert Gorman, Archbishop Paul J. HalHnan, Theodore Halpin, Noble Harbaugh, Edward Hart, Cornelius M. Hayes, James R. Hilger, Gerard Hodges, Wm. Jones, Jos. Kenny, John A. Kiener, Gerald Klein, Walter A. Kolby, Edwin T. KolsU, John Kramer, John Lambert, Harold V. Lappin, Vincent F. Lavelle, Capt. Robert E. Lee, USN, John C. Litcher, Rev Charles McCarragher, Florence J. McCarthy, Andrew McGuan, Leo V. McLaughlin, Francis M. Marley, Francis Miller, Dennison Mohler, John H. Mulhem, D. Frank Mumane, John Murphy, Dr. Charles B. Nash, Wm. Newbold, Francis Norton, Francis J. Oelericfa, Edward CSullivan, Paul CTooIe, John E. Peickcrt, James W. Power, Michael K. Powers, Clifford Prodehl, Cornelius Ruffing, Donald Ryan, John Ryan, John M. Scanlan, Leo. V. Schiavone, Richert G. Schneider, James Simmons, Jr., John Staunton, Robert C. Streb, Richard Sullivan, Donald Sullivan, Leo C. Svete, Walter Terry, Cyril Theisen, George Ussher, Joseph A. Vassallo, Robert Waterson, Clinton H. Watson, Rev. Jerome Wilson CSC, Rev. John H. Wilson CSC. John Wittliff. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1947 AUGUST 
 learned %%"ith deep regret that CHARLES E. MONT­GOMERY of Spring­





1933 We 
field, Ky., died March 
18. To his family we extend our s>-mpathy and 
prayers. "In Paisdisum Dcducant Tc .Angeli'* CHARLES CONLEY of Haverstown, Pa., ^vho 
IS gen. chairman of our 35th Reunion, has ac­cepted ED ECKERT*s suggestion that LUCIEN KEMPF be designated Western regional chairman; JUDGE AUURICE LEE, Midwestern regional chairman and BILL LYNCH for the East. Char­ley's addn^ss is 100 E. Tumbull Ave., Havcrstown, Pa. 19083. He welcomes and awaits your Reunion suggestions. 
Although the National .\lumni Board and its Nominating Committees have, in the main, ig­nored our Class in selections to the Board for some 30 years, we have been singularly honored by the 
JOHN A. HOYT, JR. Gillespie & O'Connor, 342 Madison Ave., New York. N.Y. 10017 
election of ED STEPHAN as cbainnxtn of the Board of Trustees of the University and his selec­tion for an honorary degree at the June, 1967, Commencement. 
With equal pride PAT CROWLEY and his wf e were recipients during the past year of the Laetare Afedal, the University's highest lay award. Ftoud we all are. 
ARTHUR T. RUPPE of St. Joseph, Mich,, TO recendy named to the newly created post of dir. of mfg. for Bcndix Corp.*s Hydraulics Div. 
TOAf BEHAN, now living in San Leandro, Calif., IS in the office of the chief attorney in the VA, Tom recently lost his mother. We shall re­
HOLY CROSS PRIESTS who celebrated their 25th anniversaries June 24 were (left to right, front row) Rev. Charles E. Sheedy; Rev. Joseph F. Ciecko; Rev. Howard J. Kenna, provincial superior who addressed the priests during a Mass; Rev. Vincent B. Delavy; Rev. Eugene L Dore; Rev. Michael O'Brien; (second row) Rev. A. Leonard Collins; Rev. Richard Ken­nedy; Rev. Chester A. Soleto; Rev. William M. Schreiner; Rev. Ferdinand 
L. Brown. 
1934 
EDWARD F. AAANSFIELD 523 W. Hillsdale, Son Mateo, Cal. 94403 
Since tlic last issue of the ALUMNUS some progress has been made "communications." 
1935 
We received letters &om five of the 35ers. 
ED CULLEN was the first to ^mte. Ed lives in NcwtonwIIc, Mass. and apparently he is with Brooks Bros, in Boston—at least he used one of their envelopes! He reports that he has six grandchildren—^four with tlie name of **RciIIy" and two wth the name of "R>-an." (One of his daughters was very selective!) 
JIM HAMILTO.V also responded. Jim is president of Greene Mfg. Co. in Racine, Wis. and has been for quite a few years. He mentioned he spent several hours recendy with GEORGE DEMETRIO. 
FRANK HOLAHAN also came through ^rith a letter. One of Frank's sons, John who graduated from ND, is studying for a doctorate in economics \nth a fellowship at Georgetown and is getting married in June. His other son. Bill, is a junior at ND. Frank said he met FRANK HOCHREITER in White Plains a few days before he \vrote. Hoch was in the area directing a TV film interview with Gary Moore. 
BOB MAKER, an MD at the Spokane Eye Clinic in Washington, wrote to tell us that he has a son, Stephen, who is a freshman at ND. He mentioned that he sees SSers ANDY DINEEN and JIM BILLOU frequently and that he recendy saw PAUL H.\RT, a "long-lost" classmate, Paul is living in Coeur d* Alcne, Idaho. 
TOM WILLIAMSEN is the only one who took ad\*antage of the information card in the previous ALUMNUS to drop us a note. Tom b with Grumman Engineering Corp. and hb principal acti\ity concerns aero-space contamination con­trol. Tom was on the program in early &fay for the American Assoc of Contamination Control at a mcedng in Washington, DC and spoke on "Space Craft Sterilization." 
WILLIAM F. RYAN 1620 E. Washington Ave.. South Bend, Ind. 40017 
Through another source, we heard that JOE SCHMIDT is pres. of Greshoff Advtg. Agency and is the newly-elected pres. of the Bronx Grand Jurors. The clipping we received indicated that Joe is extremely active in Bronx community life and has three children—two girls and a boy. 
Wc received information from the Alumni Office that IkfIKE SHEEDY passed away May 8 this year. A Class Mass was said for Mike at N D recendy. On behalf of the Class we wish to extend our deepest sympathy to Mrs. Sheedy. 
Thanks to you several 33ers who took the time to write. No news yet from those mentioned in the last two columns. We are still hoping, bow-ever, that a few of them will drop us a note for the next issue. HoW about it fellows? 
REUNION REGISTRANT: James MacDentt. 
member her in our prayers. 
RAY BRANCHEAU, who is in charge of health and phys ed at Western New Mexico U. in Silver City, writes that he will be at our 35th Reunion. 
ED GOUGH of Clevebnd spends his free time covering intercollegiate track meets in the Mid­west. His son Paul is a quartcr-miler on the N D track team. 
JOE BORDA recently resigned as minority counsel of the Senate Appropriations Committee and is now practicing law at 1707 "L" St., NW Washington, DC. 
From Sikeston, &fo., we had a recent note from BILL HUNTER inquiring about PETE CONNEL­LY. JIM ROSS and BILL LYNCH. 
TOM GORMAN brings us up to date by advis­ing us that he has been zone mgr. of Che\ToIet at Peoria, HI., since 1964. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS: Murray Booth, Daniel Casey, Norman E. Duke, J. Wm. Gossclin, 
W. Lawrence "Larry" Sexton, Wm, G. Smith. 
Without the five post­cards that came as a result of the last issue, I doubt very much if I
1936 
would have any news to report. Wish more would take time out to write. 
One of the first cards I received was from JACK DEMPSEY, Tacoma, Wash. Jack works for Pugct Sound Power & Light Co. in Bellevuc. Was made mgr. of engineering last April. Has been with this firm since 1939. 
Another card was from DALE PILLARS, 324 
E. 18th Ave., N. Wildwood, N. J. Dale ^^•as former teammate of mine on our gymnastic team during our undergraduate days. We put on many an exhibition in \*arious schools in Northern Indiana. Wonder if Dale remembers the time I flew off the parallel bars—which gave away during an exhibition—and nearly landed in the audience. We had our moments when performing. Dale is teaching in Middle Township HS in Cape May Court House. Expects to teach three more years and then retire somewhere in Maine. Has two daughters living in Hartford, Conn. No grand­children as yet. I expect to see and \i5it with Dale sometime this summer. 
It was like "old home week" hearing from another Gym Team Classmate, JIM PAGLIASOT­TI, Fresno, Calif. Now, if wc could hear from "HUGGING BEAR" BILL SAFFA from Okla­homa, this column would nearly be complete. (Come now. Bill! Fill out that postcard and forward it pronto.) Jim belongs to the N D Club of Central Calif. 
Friends of JACK ROBINSON will be glad to hear he is up and around. Jack writes he visited the Campus during the Army game and was sur-
URRY PAIKOVIC 
301 Mechanic St., 
Orange, N.J. 07050 
prised to learn how hard it was to recognize the Campus in all of its glory. He enjoyed reading about all the new sports that N D has taken on and hopes tlie school will help out in these sports. Jack expects to see another game this coming fall. 
AL TORRIBIO from MontchcUo, Calif., writes he enjoys our column and to keep up the good wt)rk. I can only do this by having all of you drop me a line now and then. Al says that PAUL RUBLY is now shooting in the low 70s. Must he he has improved tremendously since undergraduate daj-s! 
Learned that BOB B£RN.\RD still has all his hair and is turning out Kleenex like crazy for all the runny-nosed people in the "East." He isn't kidding when he said East. Wants to know how come Pojman was listed as Class of *37. Will have to ask Hank for details. 
Last, but not least is a note from GEORGE WENTWORTH, "the Old Bucksport Pro" from Maine. George wrote me last Christmas but with the confusion of the husUe and bustle I somehow overiooked his letter. George has just completed 30 years of coaching and teaching and is starting on his second 30. Has been an outstanding coach in basketball and luis won numerous tournaments and championships. Has been guest speaker at a num­ber of basketball clinics in and around his area in New England. Sony about your letter; will be more prompt next time. 
If you made the 30th, GREAT is the word for it. If you missed it, 
1937 
TOUGH! First a special, special 
thanks to the local committee for die organization and 
smooth functioning of all the affairs that we enjoyed. 
The fellows did a terrific job to make our Reunion a 
real enjoyable one—long to be remembered. Com­
mitteemen JERRY CLAEYS, KARL KING, HARRY 

KOEHLER, MORRIS MORRISON, JOHN FARA­
BAUGH, HARRY POULIN, MILTON KATZ and 
Father NED JOYCE, again, a tip of die hat. 
A short recount as the fog is beginning to lift now 

that I am back in NJ. Good programs at the Center 
for Continuing Education were always in order and ran 
Friday through Sat. Our Class banquet at the Center 
was handled by the pill man from Buffalo. J. "PABLO" 
SHEEDY was toastmaster. Speakers were kind to the 
well-oiled and fed members present. (Cheer water and 
filet mignon and trimmings.) Speakers were PAUL 
FOLEY, McCann-Erickson; TOM CARNEY, Alumni 
ex-pres., G. D. Searle Co., also member new lay board; 
Father JOYCE; JERRY CLAEYS, and a short plea 
from the sec. for the news to keep coming in. Some 
profs present were Walter Langford, Leclair Eells, Lee 
Flatley and Father Ward. 
The follo\ving were elected: PARKER SULLIVAN, pres.; BILL FALLON, JERRY CLAEYS, GORDON MURPHY, VPs; Joe (You know who), sec.-treas. AL SCHWARTZ included in his motion that the treasurer be bonded. Following an all-night session with the fire­crackers— with two injuries, ED HUSKING and JOHNNY LAUTER—we had the Class picture taken on the old library steps. Then over to Moreau Sem­inary (local Hilton Inn) for Mass — concelebrated by Fathers JOE ENGLISH, CALLAGHAN, JOYCE, LOCHNER and CURRAN in memory of departed classmates. Most impressive place (TOM WHITE almost signed up as a guest). Also there was an ap­propriate sermon by Father LOCHNER (now in Cleveland—^Father Bob's dad also made the Reunion). 
We had a golf tournament winner — JOE SAN­CULIUS, who made Father HOLDERITH's call list at the banquet. At the Jf?;^ Alumni Banquet "^ — 1300 strong — Bob Cahill stole the show as the MC. The dinner honored retiring Alumni Sec. JIM ARMSTRONG 
'25 after 42 year^ service. Father Joyce represented 
FATHER HESBURGH, who was grounded by weather. 
Many made their first Reunion in 30 years. These 
included LOU PURCELL (Bengal boxer who still has 
the iron grip and also the finest fishing place south of 
the border in Mexico), Parker Sullivan, GORDON 
MURPHY, BOB GROGAN and at least six others. After 
being our first $$ contributor, ED GARVEY had to 
miss because of hospitalization. ADE JUDAE was also 
getting over an operation. Telegrams came from BILL 
FOLEY and DON BANNING. (Don, for your info, 
HARPO ended up in my room for assistance.) 
Word from SB at this writing, Claeys says we are going to end up in the black as far as accounting is concerned. DICK FLOOD won the weight contest; HUBIE GALLAGHER had the best tan (La.); JOHNNY BRASSEL die trimmest figure. CY STROK­ER is still reporting to his old Scholastic boss, PAUL FOLEY. They were seen together at Moreau services. Excellent press coverage at this Mass. CHUCK LEMON is now a Conn, commuter, after being in Chi. for 25 odd years. Chicago businessmen present were JOE ZWERS and RAY McGRATH (250 lb.) discussing how to sell three-legged chairs. Banker WIL KIRK took over the Morris Inn Friday nite and held Chamber of Commerce session on Dallas. 
Again, everyone plan to write the secretary. First bread and butter letter received was from ED GAN­NON. This makes the job easy, Ed. I'll save the rest for next col. We ^ain salute the local committee iar a job "well done." —JOE QUINN 
REUNION REGISTKANTS: Loim Alaman, Ralph Bernard, John G. Boyd, John Brassd, Robert Burke, Rev. Charles Callahan CSC, Thomas P. Carney, Dr. Peter Cassone, Jerome Claeys, Thos. Condon, Rev. Raymond Cour CSC, Daniel Cullinan, John Davis, Richard Delaney, Thos. DeUer, Bernard Donnelly, Jos. Dorgan, Paul Doran, Robert Dowd, Dr. James 
W. Downey, Charles Duffy, Rev. Joseph Engluh, Alfred T. Erskine, Wm. H. Fallon, Louis Fehlig, Robert B. Filson, Francis S. Finan, Patrick J. Fisher, Richard E. Flood, Paul Foley, Hubert Gallagher, Edward Gannon, Jerome Gohman, Arch F. Gott, Robert Grogan, Paul 
A. Guamieri, Bernard Hartz, Peter Hearden, Harold Heincmann, Louis 
J. Hollcnbach, Edward J. Hoyt, Thos. J. Hughes, Edward Huisking, Charles Jordan, Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, Paul H. Kane, Milton Katz, Karl King, Richard King, Wilfred Kirk, Harry Kochler, Nelson Lampert, Bro. Eric Landers CSC, John Lautar, Charles F. Lemons, Rev. Robert Lochncr CSC, Thos. Luckey, Francis T. McDonald, Raymond E. McGrath, Matthew Mclnemy, John McNeill, Dr. Harold 2kfarley, Charles Meyers, Morris Morrison, Art Mulholland, Dr. Paul F. MtUler, Wm. Mulrenan, Fred W. Mundee, James Murphy, Charles Nau, J. Walter Nienabcr, Bernard Niezer, Jos. Nyikos, James F. 0*Hara, Maurice 0*Hem, Coleman O'Shaugncssy, James Parsons, Thos. Pcndergast, John Powers, Louis M. PurccU, Jos. Quinn, Bernard Reilly, Dr. S. Paul Roark, Henry Sagan, Jos. Sanculius, Benjamin M. Scherer, Jos. J. V. Schilling, Albert Schwartz, J. Paul Sheedy, Jos. L. Shiely Jr., Robert Siegfried, Cyril Stroker, Parker Sullivan, Dr. Anthony Valvo, Dr. Cyril J. Vojak, John W. Walters, Robert C. Weaver, Thos. White, Robert Wilkie, Victor Wojcihovski, Jos. Zwers. 

Provocative and stated with acute candor, the proposition merits earnest reflection by today's Catholic. The Church, bound up in a spirit of aggiornamento and drawn by pressures to update its contemporary outlook, has enacted more dramatic changes in the last five years than what history relates of its preceding 500 years. On issues concerning liturgy, faith and morals, belief in God, and authority and freedom of conscience. Catholics hear discomforting attacks from all sides and witness what appears to be endless change. These are developments that weren't even mentionable a few years ago in the so-called changeless Church. Today, they are not only mentioned but they seem to be irrevocably a part of us. . With this as a background, the Alumni Association and the University's Center for Continuing Education launched the second Annual Alumni Seminar. In the following pages, specially prepared and edited for the ALUMNUS, the five main speakers at the two-day June seminar air their views regarding innovation in the Church. 
Pictured at left from top to bottom, they are Rev. Charles Sheedy CSC . . . THE NEW MORALITY Rev. Aelred Tegels OSB . . . WORSHIP Rev. Albert L. Schlitzer CSC . . . BELIEF IN GOD Prof. J. Philip Gleason ... CATHOLICISM Rev. James T.Burtchaell CSC . . . AUTHORITY. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1947 AUGUST 
:-" f:­
'v'/': 
• •''•• 



cdn^^du 
' I-'

V'. VV ...V--••' '-.-r • ' "Z:''^ r'.: 
.rv " ^ ' ' .'•••-!-•.--'.. 

^XsV'"'^' Y^ ^ 
, y, ,-,"^^ •N^ i*,. 
^. ^-r ' ^ "•' '••' -.'•-' 
C; 
• '-^••^ • 



Mms?

i?£F. AELREDi TEGELSOSB 
By. aaodem scifibfifif inentidity?? Is he capable of 
NTH. LATELYj'at least, people have symbolic ci^>ce«oo?'^And if so,, is the, symbolism 
always th(Xi^t so, and done "so. Gen­of tfaeifindi^o^ tites'still, valid?. M odier wotis,
erations of our foiefadieis have kndt is contte^oiaty man stiUklinii^^cal animal? 
in wordless adotaticm," in heartfelt . Such qiiestinm,^coiningfipni'^^ man long regarded 
gratitude, in. rqientant sorrow, in'^^ as an effectiyi^I'atcdnely. articulate cfaan^ion rof 
earnest hope. They have said die i»sary. They have liturgical: ^>iticaality,/uiidastandaUy provoked?.conr 
read prayers from their favorite prayerbooks. More siJTtaHr ^iyrvm^,^^'*i"'^:"^y in Europe. ..What is 
recendy they have meditated on the texts of the missaL die fiomt ^o^ the liturgr? Ate the irfoms of the 
As long as diere \ras a question merely of praying <t/ paJtt;fcw^year^'o«r even the.refbnns presendy conP 
Mass there seemed to be no great problem, at least ten^Jated by/ linugists, suffidendy radical to meet 
not for fervent Catholics. ^ • the needs c^ contemporary man? 
Take the example of St Frands deSalesj seven-^ teenth<ientury author oi An Introduction to the De­vout Life. When he was made a bishop he determined <F. IT iSliTSUE that contemporary man is not that his prayer-life should not suffer unduly from die ' ^bte/of symbolic. ei^tession,di6'aiiswer to pressure of his new duties. .One of his resolutions oi^^ue^n is sin^l& li e Mass itself is not a 
~ was to recite therosary at the numerous public Masses viable fom of personal prayer and the require-he would be obliged to attend'in his new office. As minit^iQl active partic^tion pr^ehtsr^i almost far as we know he kept his tesoludon.,, 
msupetablr.iobstade^'tb ^uin e prayer at Mass. There 
St. Frands' example illusbrates the. nature of our .'is no:.fiitiiiejfor liturgy in the traditional sense,.for' current' problem. For while he was convinced that "as GiairHini!noted,~it.consists essentially of^mobolic fervent Catholics coidd and should pray at MasSj he • japeesaoiL^----^}[J^ ^ , ";^'"" ' ,• "\' '••' clearly did not think of the Mass itsell as a par­^^ J^However, as^xundeistand it,^ diis was not his 
ticularly viable form, of personal prayer. "Here we aacblsca.~~-He^wbuld tiot dei^ the vital tole of . have die dilemma of many contenqxirary Catholics. ^nibdism'm^die'llife of contemporary mian. He is Current litui^cal renewal, with its emphasis on acrive nniA too ^femilur wmi tnodein p^chcJo^, andiro­communal partidpadon in the. Mass, tends to pte-' poli^, ;philb(npl^'and literatiue^^for diat. His teal dude the traditional forms of [«aycr at:Mass. .Hiete ': qu^ion is tio «diat extent is the symbolism" of At is simply too much distraction.- We really, have no tiaditiinnal. litiiigral /tites ^~Valid for;~CMitempotary 
choice. The only way to pray at ^ass any more is 

. matL-Hour .ndical must leTuuu be? .. to pray the Mass. Is diis possible? '^> 
:, '^^QK (i» tis aie onvinoed^of die need for further 
That this is a real question is evident_^&omidie'' ;.^ lituxgjcil leJEonn, ryfialjy o£/die.Mass. The ^les­fact diat it is being asked by some very serious people. ./. tioqJs'i'K^ die 'Mass. be-adequately refocmed with-One, for instance, is Roinano Guardini,xoiie i^ die, ciut oean^ ^ be die tradiriiMal Christjan Eudarist?" pioneers of die liturgical moveinent.in jGennaiiy and ';'~What is d^^ of theEucha­author of a classic entitled The Sphit of the Littirgyi /n«t?^iie^,ii$ tJee t& answer itdm' St-Paul: "As an apeh letter addressed to du head of,die German -aSttuMyoa ott diis,bread and drink the o^, you litur^cal commission in 1964. s ' \ ' ^lie^LatdPsd^imtil he-comes" (I Corr 
•j-.k-

He noted diat all-liturgical celd)tatioii,:mdudiitg 11::26)^ > 11ie:iiiaiiing of tbe Eucharist is to job in die Mass, oinsists essentially) of tites,;^of synJxilic. Qn^f'wocaiipVof his Fadier, wfaidi is sJso com­activi^. There is nb 4piesti(m tlutt tiaditicNially men imtDient .tit me socvioe; of dor iellow;man.'\We.</o have always ei^ressed themselves f symbolically at dus-l^y{innng\a'ineaLt^ fundamental worshq>. But what of conten^rary man, coaditioiied v.fi^nabQlic~^]^iixsaqii^^^ the MaaJ" If tius activi^-'is 
• ., .,i^; -X-AUIMNUS JULY IM7 AilGUST 
no Imger really oqnxssive of wotsh^.for us, dien 
we' arey no longer really capsbltqf celdnating the 
Mas^ of pfaymg at Mass. , , , >^r 
This is What some pea^ think. If I <^greed widx 

them, I could stop n^t^hefe. But I .doiL't.^ I think 
diat meals, tradmonallyj te^o^d as du: most funda*. 
mental depression of .die sacred^ still have syinbolic 
content for. us. To be convinced of this, it is enough 
to note that it seems; practically impo^le to have any 
sort of gadiering without having lefeeshmmts served. 
The ezplanadoh can hardly be the need for physical 
nourishment. That is about die last thing most of 
us need at odd hours. It is also difficult toeiqilain 
the phenomenon generally as, compensating for 
wretched insecurity;. It is best eqilained. as a rite, as 
a celebration of die to^diem^s we have achieved in 
the pursuit of our common ideals and purposes. Note ­
diat we commonly receive only tokeir^ nourishment. 
The symbolism is paramount. .; ^ 
Evidendy the m:^ still functions as a secular rite.; 

What of it as a sacred, rite, as a symbolic activity 
expressive of idic essence of: Christian worshqn? I^ 
would maintain that it is still the best^ possible rite.­
The meal ronains one of the most fundamental human . activiti^ and,' as sudi, is most apt for, response to 
ultimate teali^. • , , , , . 
'HEN WE EAT we sustain life from 
\tfae rqxoductive iqaxs of the e^th. 
It is true dut-nature does not have. 
quite the^same.mystery f6r us diat, 
it had for men in earlier ages. It 

no. longer inspires quite the same awe. But idystety 
is still diere.- We all know — and sdentiste would 
be the first to ackno«^edgie,diis— that we have no 
absolute knowledge of the forces of natiue, nuicii 
less' ultimate control of diem. Eating is receivmig 
adcnoi^edging ^ow "creaturcliness," our dependenoe 
on an ultimate source of life. -It is dierefbre ca|able of ]i& in oeneaL willinflnfM ta' lecdve .a.-fiiMBmeiit ttBtt annMtKsjMtt only our^om icaiouroe* but'ewa air iiiiiirnttiiJiiifr^ It is,. qc^ at .least can b^- i£ jd, ttam ouadvt^ to^bef 
-sensitive to dle.^>mfeli^nj:fia^"yl^^ «wnmiiiinn widi ultimate .'life,' with Gcdi\T1iatii'iiWn^ liaie­traditiondly n^^prdcd die.meal as ti* MOBI cte p ^ 
exorllente.'^- -'^' ••",^-'''V.-.r^",,.Vr" },• - /"( '..--^-^J. 
• • •--,•••:'-r-' • r"\ A'•.-^.--^-j, i>v^'" ;>. 
" - Note, too, vdiat eatii^' it an activi^ .imm V e^petienoe^bur solidiui^. widi ddiKr I Aloi]ie'mast-<^'tis oouUlnot iuivm.tf ;a]l,)£bc.]i^^ We^^d^endotiodids to^pitodade fac^>pcqiaie it} and eveni to seryelit. -Tlus ea^g 'oh .e^cear ac­(xptance. of 'oiir^need for socie^ ^uid-die- coimnit-1 ment/to/othets that dus iiivolves. We^jrealixe diat^ we must cOnstand^ teeetve.Jrain::ad^ tfaene it no full life widiout odiett;, Rodneau/t^^ about die noble-savag^ uncqntaminatedyby "contacT with men. We knoMT today diat (sudi 7a creature^ would be an idio^ hanlly a.fauman beiiig at aO. 
. We should also note that we do not nonnolly^ like to eat-alone. -vWe like cbmpahy, seem" to^nenl it f or good d^e^ion. Even idieh. we read the piapeir' at bteak&st we:are commuiitratiiig'widi-odieis, nsA oehdng feom than. We: are nbondiing \ouiselvet ' ^iritually. Hiere seans-to be a i^^tund affini^ be^ tween {^yaol' and spiritual: wiiiriiAmmt. •' : ' 
Thus the.meal .excesses, our dependence o^odien,; die fact dut'we are fulfilled duou^ odieis, and not always persons of our own cfaoioe^'pmons wefind9 most cmgeniaL ,As;we develop ^tomrd' fuller lifie>x we must often renounce' penonal ideas, piefiaiencesi . plans, and open oimelvet to a pvupose b^ger diah ourselves. In .other^wnKls, we must die m order to \ 
We see d>^;tJhe'meal is^aiuauialeqpcesa^ vHbat is invialved, in^saoifioe as die dtuaOeristic act ; bf wbr^iq> and can understand v ^ it has aHmys been basic tt> sadificial lituid.: Wh^":liapf>ens. in the' Eucharistic ineal is ,diat the^nnbolic^content 'be>­comes eiplidt andfCijperatiye at the kyd of ~ultinute. real&y. Thi^ tfacoo|^ the addMon oJF ajmJd —: the: Word incarnate, Chnt^ dhie stf«ein^^idassic.eapwt-. sion (rf God's puiposje(>fiar;man.-^; tfaroi^'the.re­menJnance (^ 1^'sacrifice hb woedif) of die Fadier; and service of.•.m^y',.-'^'f..-' /;•'••. ' ,fS~ '.'•' :-'' , Christi, as mu^; oifK^ shirbsdf Vunnsnvedly to' God's puqxjse^&r HinL He-was .led beyond human calculations • and'^^disaater-.to^simceme ifcilfillmenr. Obedient to ^nomimous d(atfa?dn a ctosa^ Hejvat­ejcalted and given die^niuw of Ixicdt'die gtver ofl ^ 
Oh the eve of His .pastiaI^ He widied to ejfcda' 

:'-=^V.
• \ •^^•'.: 
^.c-•- • • 
^-^ 
=.-'v- -• 
•\,-' 
:^-. ^•'-^ 
'K 
v^ 
-'K. 
: •r'_ 
?:>--/'• 
"~j C­
:\ 

die meaning of it all and to ^ve us a rite which 
would be a living memoriaL In a proj^edc action,^ 
He took bread and, praising the Father foi: His 
unspeakable mercy and for the gift of fullneiss of 
life, He gave it to His disciples: Take and eat,, all 
of you. It is my body. Likewise, after die meal, the 
cup. 
Sudb, in its essence, is the Mass. It is a meal in 
wfaidi all the latest symbolic content becomes fully 
G^lidt and operative in the memorial we make of 
Christ. It is a symbolic activity in vAiidi all of us 
can respond fully to ultimate reality. It is an eminendy 
viable fomi of worship, of prayer. 
N
r^EEDLESS TO SAY, the present "rite of the Mass could stand tcfoim. The Mass is a symbolic meal; die symbol­ism is paramount. Physical nourish­ment is incidental to vHat we are do­ing. But it should be more recognizably a meaL We should have something resembling real bread. And we must find some means of complying widi the in­vitation of Christ: Take and drink, all of you. We could also hope for rites of communion more in con­formity with our customs in eating. 
The remembrance we make of Christ, viiadi makes a sacrament of this meal, could also be more effec­tively communicated in our choice of lessons and in the Eiuharistic prayer itself, the canon. It will soon be in EnglisL But it could be improved better to express the fullness of tradition and our contemporary under­standing of the Eucharistic mystery. We know that in antiquity new Eucharistic prayers were regtilarly composed and existing ones amended to reflect doctrinal development. We know of three successive versions of the Roman canon. This is notmaL This, too, we can expect There will be new canons. 
At the same time we must not depend entirely on reforming die rite of the Mass. We also need continuing catechesis, instruction concerning die meaning of the meal, expressed and made effective in the redemptive wodc of Christ 
Reform is faithful to the most audientic Christian tradition of the Eucharist and will make it possible for all of us to enter more deeply into Quist's own aa of worship. 
' RBV. AELKBD TEGELS OS B has been a\ rioting professor in i the theology department this ^ast spring' and will tontinae here through the '67^68 school year. A professor of liturgy M St. John's Umreraty, CoUegerille, Minnesota since I960, be is editor cf Wonti^ maga^ne. He is a member of the botrd of directors of tht Ntaional Liturpcal Conference and a frequaa contributor to rarious periodicals including Linugical Aits, Tbe Bible Today and MaUa Sciidifi. 

fAe new morality 
''VLL MORALITY be different in the Cbturh of the renewal from the way it was before Vatican 11? I diink there will be major differ­ences in the teadiing and learning 

and also in the living of it, in the quality of moral aspiration and in our self-evaluation, self-endorsement and self-criticism. 
I think some, of tfar main differences will be seen dujsly: _ , 
^JThe morality of the renewal will stop being an - intranuual morality, an; inside-the-Catholic-Churdi mocality, and will become more ecumenically Christian. 
,P It will stop being a morality of legal fulfillment and will become Chtist-centered: raidie Christ of die Go ^ and i ^ Qiuich of die New Twtament and oh the mystery of die risen Christ who lives and wodcs in us dirou^ the Holy ^irit "^ ,­
ALUA«NUS JULY 19«7 AUGUST 

REV. CHARLES SHEEDY CSC 
*
 Because it will be centered on the mystery of the risen Christ our new morality will be liturgical and worshipful^ therefore less individualistic, less concerned with the individual soul's salvation. : 

*
 It will be very much a secular morality, deeply concerned with social responsibility for die suiting hei^ibor, dose at hand and farther away. 

*
 There will be more enq>hasis on positive duty and opportunity, less emphasis on avoidance of sin. In fact, siii will be ^^ewed more as an attitude and a condition than as a sq>arate ait. There will be less emphasis on the distinction between mortal and venial sin, especially as viewed with a simple set of quasi-mechanical conditions. But a more realistic and less mechanical view of sin will deepen and not lessen the sense of sin in us. '. 


Because the standard of morality will be the fol­lowing of Christ and not a set of clear-cut rules, the moral duty will not be so easily known, so leamabie by rote. The Christian will be burdened with a heavy responsibility of freedom and a duty to think for himself. The approadi of the teacher will be to inquire rather than to lay down the law or the ap­plicable precept. Togedier, teachers and learners, the 
_^Christian people, will try to live the life of love in the unity of the Spirit. 
I
F YOU LOOK BACK, you will sce vAot a large part of our morality was intramural, like a set of club rules, within the Catholic club. There was the famous fi^ on Friday and the rules on fasting and abstinence on ember days and during Lent. The Sunday Mass wias / taught primarily as an obligation, with the principal parts under pain of mortal sin. Confession aiid Com­munion once a year were obligations under penalty. Besides these rules, there was the thundered obligation of parents to send their children to Catholic schools — elefnentary, secondary and college — often under the threat of denial of absolution. 
There were the interfaith rules: you could not pray publicly with Protestants; you could assist pas­sively (Le., sit down) at Protestant weddings and funerals. Thete-^was "a thesis in the texd>6qks that a Catholic architect or contractor should not build Protestant diurcbes. Li sometbwm die^ niles went very small: the Cadiolic diildren could not swim tn die YMCApMl or pky basketbaU, in die Presby­terians' gym. And thai there was die Gidiolic inaiital' and sexual code, partof'V^iicIi was adnijttfdly incca­club, and, part of v^iidi the Gitbolics said apfJied to everybody whether they knew it or not because it was part of divinely estaHistied natuol^law. Ai^^ body here, can think of odier ezanq)Ies of intta­dub morality. •'": ' , " 
. We were not. all bad, all rqxeaied, all hypo­critical in this systBtn. There were great Cadiolics in it, great Christians m it: n^ mother and lather and yours and you yourselves at your best..JThe great Cadiolics adapted their fceiEdom to die Churdi's laws and felt litde repressed^ They even pcodaimed die laws and were proud of the laws: They said,. Tt's ­a tou^ Church to live in, but a g^e^ Cfaurdi to <£e 
in. No doubt many of die laws will still retain:dieir validity and vigor evenin the open and free air of the renewal However, die old morality was based on fulfillment of legal, precepts: it lent itself to minimalism and also to sectarian riannishness. The aim of the renewal is to make the Church a jgceat Churdi to live in, widi the people of God woddng together and praying toother for the establishment of the kingdom of die risen Christ Hiere is such a thing'as a natural'morial law Iwt "it is not die primary law for die Christian.'* Here I quote Father Charles Curran, the Catholic Univer­sity moralist «^o was in die papers tecendy: "The natural law, as theologians call i^ is primarily a dynamic, internal law. . . . The' law of nature is assumed into the law of Christ for all nature was.. created according to die image of Christ and all iia­ture exists for Christ. .. . Many tend to codify cran­pletely the natural law and dnis rob the natural law of its dynamic diaracter."^ Again quoting Father Girian, ."Tod'often in die past Catholic writings have implied-that the. natural law consists in detailed norms and, ocact rules for human conduct. . . ; For St. Thomas^law meanis an order of reason, .ai plan, a design. Hence the natural law means the plan ik design acqcxdi^g to wfaidi 
• V 
--•..><: ::^ ' 
-V". u: 

?vy 
•^< 
.iJ. 

>:'•:•• J ^ >'•••••'^\ 
:

• « ••-1-. .1 A', 
-V; vr; 
^-i­

hunuoi life should be lived. Undoubtedly^ an older F~THE N ^ iidRAUlY is Christocentric.^ it is ^ 
philost^by conceived of human ezistence'm mme static : also lin^gical. Yba do not, necessarily ~dmik 
"^ terms as confonnity to a prea;ianged plan that vas of Im^^ as part of morality becaiue you aire so spelled out in every detail.. . . Modern 'man thblcs , dHJtff" arn'^""*^ to rlimlring of viitues-. aiid of the world and nature not as scunedimg static.biit >cTO«£i"Etotemante~diat'liturgy ;is our^^xat dynamic; creativity and invention, not conformity, •' ^ocal SKX' of vWD^^, of jGod m union mdi~ die risea cfaiatacterize modern inanr... Modem man refuses to Christ'ii^p'lim in: us s^ among fus. Father Girran-^ . listeii to a natural law proposed as mere conformity to , savsL :^niie mnal Itfe'^^c^ implies die liv^~ the laws of namre. Radier he tools-upon natural law ins outrof die new ufe received in die sacramental en^ as a task to be achieved, a God-^ven destiny to be cpunte^^with:die"tisen Christ in du^Qiurdi.. / . The worked out and developed. Tlie morial life of man^ iaipcKtana ofyl'oonsdaice^ die H<dy %>irit and .tiv^ : like his physical and psydiolo^cal life, is characterized litmgjr in Quistian morality ^n n diat morality is by growdi and development." ^ -' intzmsc and; itiot extrinsic; -diat is,' good actions are 
.':, Fadier Bernard Haring nnakes die same pdnt vay didse'^at^develcj^ ham die very bmig (^ the peison 
briefly:"The natural moral law.is not a code ^ and Hottjustdtoceactioiis tfaaraceini amfonaity widr external rules and regulations but radier a chillnngp estenudnocms^:'^zvi). -' •. V'^S^- ,'''-.•v":'.-^: to' act in full accord with our rational nature." And X J A mocaiity «UcIi is litur^cal will not necesarily ~ Fatfan Haring also says the Ten Commandments are ,diange^ di^' lattd^aitid nature of tIttinoral> activity" 
not the basic law for the Christian, ezcq>t in die li^t v^iidi jwf:^ettoi^ affect die.quality and of Christ's covenant widi His people, and the law st ^ af.our-bduWor'aikl our attitudes iowards~bur-~ of love. ~ Mv» ;and our SimOiK. We have becooie acoustemed-. 
to Aa^aB^^^taofal duty as.oonsBdng in die fulfill­ment df ^ duties of our stab of life as-husband," 
I
F NEITHER the natural moral.law, nor tlie Ten 

parnt; pnovidet^rdtizen^-etCi and m living and pro>; 
Commandments, nor die: precq>^; dF_ die 

pbundm^ die j ^ ofX^^thful^GuhcJi^ Som^ going-
Churdi are at the center .of the morality of , 

soaynAaX deq>er, :,img^t have- had a, view q[ .die 
the renewal, dien «4iere is that center?- It is 

die^og^ .and mood virtues. But- you - would n^ 
in die person, Ufe, work, teaidiing arid power _ 

^y/diat yo ^ moialityranstandy k ^ Christ in view, 
of Christ, entirely shared with us diroug^ His '^t... 

paitiaila^ the rism Christ in die mysixty of. 
of^idi, throu^ Baptism, love and.Saaamoits, ei^ ~ 

"^.ca^lny £at die,iesurrection.of Christ'is. 
dally die sacrament and sacriSoe of tfis Body and 

^ ,y V;­

at dtt (xnta'of die new mraality. llieolc^ is die 
Blood. •, ^-• '••'-.^ .''";; ' \ v.. '•' ;•.•;; 

^u^ , of die Easter mystety in Christ an 
-The Constitutionjof Vatican 11 on Diviiie'Rev-' 

liva. Litui^ iSidie,^ceubtati(m dF die Easter'mystoy. 
elation. indicates the centor of all morality:, "llie V 

Maaliiy.,» th^'Ei^cer lifie-^^^^ peqile and families.' 
source of all saving moral truth iand. moral teadimg. 

This^iceater'oa Easter, is npitas dear and~^tdlal:as 
is die Go5>eL" The iiew morality must be Chnstr 

our fo^DK'idhetiena Lud-do^ rules; I^does not 
centered.^ To quote Fath^ Haring: "Not only '! 

call: so oiadi: £wVobedience as for creativity and^ 
ecdesiplogy but die entire field of moral :dieolo^ . 

imagiiMtiop'.atid:feir Christ-centered laidi Within oiir­
must be presented in a Christoceiuric syiithesis. 1 ^ 

selve&'and'our families." -' >>' ­
presentation must make d ^ diat Cmist gave His ~ 

'-•••y^A'-'^^)-S-:"<^-: ' '-•.'''•'•^'y. •••"", • ."• '-.• ,'• 
love to the Churdi dirou^ His perspiial gift of loye.^ 

S' '••' --• J't'• V • T"-^'' ,•'-•-'/ ~-'--• 
dmni^ die Holy Spirit. In this perq)ective we must 

Asupti SUGGSTH) that:di(rmocal&y of. 
be aUe to see the commandments of Hislove."'Arid: 

^tiiferinie«al'ii^ 
Fidier Gifrah, "Mbral.theolo^-should receive its in--,: 

dbdv^octjhi^y pen^id; a ^ be 
qnration, format and content:j>rimarij[y?fibm me. 

aeaili|ir,.anid diin^«e sooi^ AltdF these 
'\i^-6f God." '~-''-. ''••••''-'^c--/::^. V;-^v 

?:'^guilitia^intetlabe and inteci^ witk ndi 
• > • _ • .--^^ • •.•,.••'-. '•'•.•"'••. 
• r ••'-: : • I 
y-\^






MMm %4 
-"yr'^ 
.o-'rr:.:^^^
.•-. I ' i 
< '•• -(••-.... 
'^v. 


-p^m^ 

CS--.; 
-Jl­

-• V ..••• - •--'-A ..-•. ••' •••'-'- ^•'•c.' -. •. •;^. 
:r^:w': 

other., A mmali^ center^ on^Qirist will not consist ' ,prolan'am dieVpnl^^ fixetbra in isolated^actibm and be evaluated in tclation.tb an \) for.die|I^(^m.VAnd dKid ^ olrficedom aBi[|:d^ _^:y-r.\ extonal (m[e.VThe cn^hasis will be (»i' attitiid^ and ;^ 
;on die free devel(^>ment of the^tal personality. Our gainst Titedbrto'VinrjiuA' a jcgriimoh aad^jxcaraM A "-:',; moi^ Uves are a: cohtihuunv not merely.' a'collection*^ .• problem'as. clqpeidaipe oti,;alebb«^' ..'^".>' \;. "•'.,/-? ••'.-V • ^ /:;-•: of individual actions.'Acdons have meaning (xbly as Let''me d^e~%r iui^iig^^ aU--<lf. w j ^ f.. eq>ressing and making-more (sofound the basic moti^ ' .:/. 
(^'Jif^ .£or yott^aiid yew ^alfy: 
:7-.

ration smd'character of the'person.; For this reasoii dupu^ gtnng^^fic^boi, actioii and lowi.^, P0< not diere will be mum less en^hasis in die new mordity thitdc ina^natnnf foa]i|^:olj)piim.-aid'pti^^ on die individual -sin. or; <m .comthmdable actions of what areybii dj^jm^: W^tainyqii/vf Apenon ­religious obedience.^ The person mll^endptse^hmiself can gam mudi 9i^4ii(Nried^ duoo^ an iinafyni c^.. 
• - vs 
or blame himself in die poqiectiye of die total bent 
his J againstness." and direction of his liJEe. ' ; y ' ,'" 

' lliink'^of the'siin^tliitus of.daily 'Itfi^ dungs 
Sinularly, the idea^of die salviatipn of one's own ~ you have to do, tl^^yoifliloe taJSoy bdt tiansfonaed; individual souliwill have^less in^iortance as mottvk'-. inqual^'duw^^uttcii^uth. Yoa^.tO!visttiridc don. fii ixx, die "soul" willliotbe ^loen of so oiudi, people, yod-gD to fanend-iiaiirKS almost odde a^wed^ eqiedaUyromsideted as some q>ititual eleinent separ­you^tofbi^ Dodidbsmyk^of^ able from the t^al personalis. The Vatican Council &ibf mdi an.-'attitu(le,;Qf>Gtestian 'timtof amd propcsed-a secukr morality: advic e to humanity cem.mmife <rf- hoir- you talk-andrcoaiinniHcate: an and the world, Tm. <»der diat we may build a better-. atdtude <tf Jiaiidnes^ of tot^miess^-'af'm wotld'based on truth and" justioe.'* >"The.Council m^ t acnudly be:wota^;fam;d»e''WCT)pciiiit'of diar­clearly indioitiis diat die inbtal and qiiritual life of acter, than' the the Chrisdan in the world Rquires a wpddng for die Jagm^ ao maiq^tme«.~ Sane CathnBa are yeiy good cultural, economic sodal and poli&al ^xxl of humane . peopl^^tnUy, iahaaiy and wbd^ but unfbctunatdiy ity" (Girrai^pi xiii).' ';."" / ,,-diey priesent ;^theDtiS(Ives;as wotae dixil dicy ate. £i' 
litut^, in Sunday S&s^'die least.yoa can do is\to: LHB FREE DEVELOPMENT C^ human pcT-coMxrate with the toinnl instead of spiog home md. 
scmali^ miist fiiid e:q>ressioh'in all our \ <im6^Ai i« ^ anc^^co^bienti^^ drah'ngi ind reladonsh^n widi:all cre^ boatii^ and drafflatizmg.\:. ^ , ^. >, ;^ ; -•--y ' 
- 'And, finally, diinfe-o^ botg• *"Catholic, in~4t ing'ddls.die '^pastoiral care ofdie die old vWays. Don'i' dunk die Chunii > is > going ated^ii^ This is yfaax Father Har-,<, 
environment" It has to. do with our responsibility for soft new nKxali^, will be' the environment: ow/'ecoricHnics, engineering, hpus^' actuaUy Jiarder,^^iiot <aner,]be«use~it wiQ-.^^ iiig; fashions, foods,' bur tedinical progriKS and our covered by detailed lulcj^ less. op|en"".tp nunnnalisfo,.] tedmology^^-^Our intoidons and purpbses.in die use .. more requitii^ of giaietDsityr, and extra, actioai, Love ^ of diings reflectour own^irit aiidcfaaracter and leave die Bleaed Modio^ sajr die '.nsaiy,'go to. ooniessKn . their in^irint'on our personality. Tliis new morality. and H(Jy Qjfiimamm'bx^iead^ Will call,iiq»n allVoJ^pur^rucHirces of intelligence and be kpowtit a»-a Cadwlic,^!^^^ 
/•• 

ediication. It will not be a motali^ of rdigiotiirprac-: hood and ^ offitk Anl do ^diese dungs,«^ Ae f-i­does, but a total service of cadre petsonali|S, all Clients,^ all interest^ all opportunities tq> beof he^: everydiing ' HoIy.S^pirit. :-'"•. -'f' for posonal ftilfillmcnt^and. brodiedy; assistance, in ~ ' A fdaJty maJierSdt'NatniDiame far U/yem.IiMir.'Ca^ 
SHEEDT XSC u Vam-of-cAr CciUgi'^! A^t mdLttursr'EmSv,'',
tinion widi Christ throu^. His ^irlt. ^ , •, ' / , 
•he heddeJ the-Umtnb/t^ JepiuimaU-af riRpm. ' A^paimU ' 
In the li^f of-sudi diinkingvasTthis, we can ^ of:ibe CoOqtr U M* Itai^ htlMi 7t Urn d^peitifmmtbtV. M^ PiuAutff) '<tf »cff at 'i~'d9etot0t m^ iitaij ;idM>iff -fivm 'ikt' 
. ievaluate our attitudes toward foreign aid, the piova:^ 
AlUMNUS JUIY 1967 AUGUST 
wanted 




dead or alive: GOD REV. ALBERT SCHLITZER CSC 
iiME WAS WHEN the living and learn­
ing of die Catholic faith were carried 
out amid a moderate degree of tran­
quility. Those «^o studied about God 
in college felt secure as, under the 
safe guidance of their professor, they perused the^ various dieses in the tract on God, His existence and HJS attributes, . 
They were doubly reassured I^ the solemn state­ment of the First Vatican Gxmdl that the "Church holds and teaches that God, die ori ^ and end'of all diings, can be known with certainty by die natural, h^t of human reason from the diings diat he cre­ated. ... " Triumphandy and blessed, siqiposedly, by the Church for such endeavor, teacher and student went throu^ the five proofs of St Thomas establish­ing beyond all reasonable question die existence of God by "reason alone." _ -^i 
As clearly defined as in any Western movie in 
those "good old days," there were die good guys and 
the bad guys. The good guys were those Catholic 
authors vAio ^ to a man —- held to the unfaltering 
ability of human reason to readi die one true God^ 
•The bad-guys were Protestants and others who'ques­doned this native ability of man, swli as Tmmatnifj Kant who in his Critique of Pure i^edfon questioned the ability of human reason to reacii beyond phenom­ena, and who flailed away at die metaphysics upon .«^ch Cadiolics relied so completely in their discourse about God. Authors such as Kant~were under the curse of the Church and were to be avoided. \, 
, It is not for me to isay weedier diat ^irit of isnuig complacency in the position we held widi reelect to "truth," produced and sqjported by our ^lettolike existence as Cadiolics, was good or bad. 

I migfit jraiae'.i^ quexiiin, however, without pausmg to discuss i^ wfaedier, compfactncy and ttiumphalign are oqaipatMe widi the authentic f<Jlowing of Quist Whedier we like it or no^ die walls'of our ghetto-like nuuineir' of Itving, the CadxJic i^di have been broken down.V^e live in a fdiualistic society. Try as we wfll, we cannot'-rr nor, may I add,'should we 
ay to -7-'dose our eyes and ears to' others yha do not dimk aiasAy as we do about-God, reli^on and similarrquesdons. . -T 
LHERE is ANOTHER element diat has 
had a tremendous influence ~oa. our 
diou^t imd ^peedi about God and 
that is secularity. Inevitably our cul­
ture nu^KS (IS seoulair men. Secularity 
is dK "looong of die woild from religious and quasi­rdi^quis^undeis^ding of itself, the dispelling of all ^ dosed wodd views, me breaking of all supernatural myths and^saqxd symbols." '-'.." 
To illustcate: A few years ago two men success­fully <^imbed the hig^iest mouhtain peak in the wodd, Everest Th ^ wcK.a ^xmsmanrsdoitist. Sir. Ediniind I^^My of New^^Zealaiid,-and a native, Berber guide 6»m' llbetynamed Tenzii^. To the former,every pamfid step upward toward the peak was a triun^ of human oputage md ingentii^ over die challenge of die forces of nature. Tq^Toizing, the native Bober, evety'St^ was an awesome penetration into the. divine. Sr Hilaiy was a diild of our age and of our cultur^ a secularist. The native Berber was a child'of-anbijher.age and of anodier ajiture to idiom evetj^iing'mtlui world, eq)edaliy the dpufkrowned.. mmmtam pcJc,' was pervaded widi tlie. divine^ ^1 
SeailairizatMBr tepicsents :- dbe' "defatalizaidon of 
.i , •^ , ,^ ^ AlUMNUS JULY 1*17 AUGUST 
history,'^ die discovety by man.tliat he has been left' 
with the wodd on his hands, diat he .can> no longer 
blame fortune or the gods, for N^t he does widi it 
It is what 'Sat Gennah theolo^an calls "man's comr 
ing of a^" .'••• ;/;-'' ''^ .'"^ ", 
As for Hilary dimbing die mcuntaiq, oonqueiing. it, the. world and die forces of diis world are ours,, a diallenge. for (is to unravel its secret^ to conquer, to control, to truisfotm. Widi die he^ of science and tecfamJo^tfaere is so mudiprcmiise of success in man now at long'last come of age.. In ^ stoty of creation in Genesiswe read diat "God said, Tet us make man in our image^ mxx our likeness; and let them have dominion .. . over all the eardu'....'" Mta today read in this passage of die Bible die will of God to/^ve die wodd.over to man, diat he is to take req>6nsibility for it^ to rule and master it and shape it into his own purposes. Man Come of Age is truly in die image of God the Qeator. ' 
Oddly enou^ the desacndization of nature began , with God's self-cevelation in die Judeo-Qirisdan tra­ditions. If I may borrow a turn of phrase of Nutzsdie, there are several stages in nadiitt being stiqiped of its sacredness. Irot die many gods had to go. This happened v^ien Yabweh,"^ the Lord-God, said: "There: is but one God!"Thou shalt have^no odier gods before me!" Then the Incarnation, which, from one point of yiew^ of course revindicates God's presence in and.lordshq> over man and his nature.. Yet &om anodier point o>f .view, it demands an unequivo<^ distitiction between God and natur^ Siiice the Incar­nation we can see more clearly die secularity of time and of nature. The problem of God today, is closely connected with how we look,on Christ Jesus. 
For man today, [»eoccupied with the secular dty and its values, the problem arises widi agonizing acuteness: where is God? What place does He have, if any at all, in ^lis life? God's effacemetit or dis­placement in our postmodern age is expressed iii various ways; absence (Heidegger), disappearance, eclipse (Bubir), silence, death.. The "death of God" b no doubt the most provocadve and dramatic of all these expressions.' The phrase was used.by Hegel as early as 1802. But Friedrich Nietzsche developed it into a full-fledged mydi in the latter half ofthe last century. "God is dead.^ God remains dead. And we have Idlled him. How shall we,, the murderers of all murderers, comfort ourselves?, What,was holiest and most, powerful of all that the world has yet owned has bled to deatb^under our knives." He, dms^pot^ys vividlyc the ^Mritual crisis, ^f Western. 
j(­
r. 
\ ­

OME.'i6F THE .'^^pH3FmCSv/D{;'jplir Cbd^ ^ ia«^ iii',tfaeir-;anitkf»\to discot ondie^ '•'•v 
>^••••• 

ptoblean. of;,Gpd tnay'a(ipew toros.to. bb"" < ^' 
'shockii^v and-fooDumnr^ < u^oiir -mcdco 1 
against-tfaem wer^may' uve VBotat^to 4ier' c^ V . 
voice of die PsaImist:^"TIse^foMhaisi^saKJ[;ni iaahi^iX, i:'" •' 
frhere is no God.***, Hoifcwj^inay I 1^^ tiuit^ =­
\

we do not ymx im aSjvM jqaddyj^/^ one. 
great lesson we'emblem'iram him;".d^^ 
mystery of God.-;! am ^aid dtat'vihed[^jai»^tab°. 
easily forget in~die nudst a'^ldieir scfaglai^, tese^cdi^'v 
diat God cannot be'fitted iido otv tu^'litde-buman . 
r^ all-to(>liufflan\-— o»cq!tfL\;W'e" often ^NeAandv 
t-V^ 

act toward God as, if He weie just iumdaehr'fiRattr. 
than weasel WefnctureGodaMmakelf^ 
imagp of man. ^ff we have litde.lean^ IB 7 
justify this b)t;sq)peal to die dbc^ihe o^ analogy. BqtT; 
let lurecaUdiatifae great theob^^ 
of die names o^ God, ;TIiaa^v Afim^i^wans; tfiat,^ 
it is safer «^ien jyrakmgcof God'%tMe mftaphor, vir,.. 
raAer dian-analo^.^^It is, for'00001^ |l^£er to aay 
diat God is a ••ii6dci'*^aianiKtt ^is^mi ^ 
"Fadier.", I dare to ay'diat;iiic..qug|it'to~M jut^dT 
uneasy widi tikisel tfaralogians wJho^diaeauiM^w 
about Godtas'w^' thoKtRwiilra wjidi'l^ 
V"Is'^Sorcn Kirifc^ard entady wtot^.ii^m he cL^-y 
says^ ^*The god that can beppinteii out-is~an idid 
and the leUg^ost^ dut^mikn m';nitw^ ^ow is 
imperfea form of tdigio8i^r^i.rWe often make an 
idol of die living God widi prbau^ean atteni^ to 
force God into our coiic^tualizatirais. If weisay 
that we have a dear nodon of'.God, we deceive our-; 
selves. If we are scandalizoi at die'dntbof.God 
. theologians, let us recall diat -aiithentici mystics in . 
our Christian tradition have', often assetittdrdiat God 
\s known best by not Imbwing Him.- So'we come to; ^ 
the. paradox of Yahwdi's reply, to Mosis::^ ani/ 
what I am." The L(»d God.tells^Moses v^..He a ' ; 
by tefuang to tell^o He is.} -' ,;"_": 
I wish to dose widi^du pregnant words of I ^ 
Rahner written in 1954: "^Men^ ate. fti^tened^at die 
absence of God ficomthewodd. They fed diat they J 
can.no longer realize die Divine. -Tlii^ are terrified 
at God's silence at His.with^wid, into Hisinni m--, 
accessibility . ...-.iThis-eqietiencxVv^iidi men thinkr' 
they must intetpcet theoretically, as atheism is yet a ^ 
genuine .^ezperioQce of die most- profound enstencK., 
;-Pediaps in diis-age of die.Eii»th of God, God... 
has become more truly Godlike; "^ / , , _^ . ., 
REV: ALBERT }ScHixrzsR C9C tr du^mm if tberUmraai/$: '• dcpartmthl of thailofy',-a sptdclist m uKtamauJl ihtologf'mii the muhar of the textbook, R«Ja»ipu»e fafinutiiiii. .'-T 7"^' 
AlUMNUS JULV 19i7 AUGUST -' ' 


'> v-^v^-K 
. .. •;./ -.•• 
-> -:. ';0 
-. V­



aufhority 

r-N;. 
REFi JjiMESBURl'CHJELL CSC 


conscience 
I
N SPEAiONG alxMt freedom, iasnsdenoe and audiority I believe it is veiy important to be dear on just vAax we meaja by dx ^ terms. As you know, terms can be very misleading. ; For example several years ago a book,enjoyed enormous popularity in England. It was entitled The. 
Sex Life of Primates and its sales dkln't drop off until the pec^le found out that, in fact, it did not^eal widi ardibishops. ^ " • C~ -" 
-At present there is antagonism between conscience and authorial and diis I would like to e:q>lpte. It_is ^duxi^t that on one hand-.you can s^jptoadi your ediical life from personal conviction. You can say to yourself, 'I ou^t to do this."'Bitt oh die other 
.band, this can be regulated by impersonal connnahd, 
"Thou shalt^ or more often, l^bii shalt tiot dp this."; 
On die one hand diere is the.posnbili^ of.a spoa-­
tanebus, generous giving of yourself. On tfaeodur, 
a sort of^iidgbg_surrender' to coeraon. Here an 
adult decision, dicre a diildliker or. even a, diildish 
need to be told'v^t to do. On die'one band an 
• " . ' ' .' -. '^,-'" • ' -'-• .• "• ••', •'•• • <• 
honest inquiry, on die odier a siort of brainless defense r 

--^ -,' f^^y \ --r-T .'; / * . .r: J> \ •
•3­

•U^. 
oL irfutmr.;llie^gcui^ ^at^ Ime is.. Hie freedom of 
-^K diil^beB df God mntt^^uoed ,widi f^, even cf ex­
^^nnmnimiraoon.7yery briefly, pafaa]»ev^^pri>nitiyely, 
vlove' versus;.jaw;! Or' if ybu_will, ,a j^ew' Testinent. 
inoaliq^'^veiistis an.Old Test^iientmc^^ -^ 
' llia e two etiucal views arejnmetimes iduuacterized 
as"^ Ftotestant view; «^)ich iq^iblds^a sbvereignty-of 
and; die Gadiolic view;.i^ikh'would lely 
upm tfae'in£all9)i]^'of die CfaurdL Ai^ many people 
an of die opinion diat die» two ^ . 
n My teDuda'aie not intended to defend eidier one 
at the^opense <^ die odier, but to^reoondle dum. I 
thinkdiat diqr neiea not live,side by side .in an unca^ 
coenstCbcc^ bk-diat^ indod,-diey'thrive tqxm one 
VEEOOU is a partifiilar lequiieinent of 
bhriid^ iborality, iiikie its basic dtive is 
Doc^a soise of obedimoe to our Creator 
abd/L^id, but a comunt wiudi we'have 
iredyrclibsen-to/enter QUE of a.sense;of; 
gratihidcvto oar Redeemer. I^spaiticulatly.important 
4^;^^ian.aeSy be Oirjtfianit by dipioe. We cannot 
be bqarand biedf^or'as die Irish say,'f%ed and but­
~tered a VJuistLQi. ''-"' / ~ — ~-' • -•­
'• 11iis.'is;soirrydiinig w^iidrwe liave^to dibose^ and; 
>

Aajibapt\m^m We are 
, Chiisdins because Gbd has mterriq>ted otv lives,^and 
^^ideed die life of d|e world, in order to hint diroog^ 
certain mnOH'^pcincpatly die'^crudfizion of Jesus of ~ 
Naz^di^-rhow mudi;'He-caced for tis.-He<cah only 
:hint at it ^ioejthis is^somethinjg we can;never'fulfy 
und(xstafid,^prabaUy'^dther in diis^l^^ ndt. 
; Biit tlds vc^.^sugge^i<m'-i(tf His. love for !us and;dK9' 
~tStct it lus inoiir oiwn;Iife, all i^xm us torespond 
:fredy to what He, has ddoe-uidsaJd.-^^' . ^ 
'-jllie Quistiiui:^^ notimposcd because .we are ^ 
crexbires aidHer'B ontor^ It.is diosen because we; 
.were smnen-and'Hie diose to love us just Ithe sanie.. 
cai'tenn'.fer. diii artahgeihent between ouiv 
isdyel 'and' our; tededner |is a, covenant -a i»ct very 
miidi Ukie Jme^p^^the-Jews made saying '^e^^'will 
^te''y«iu;^£6^e;;'6eqv.^own ^>ed4JGbd:''.^I;.aq)pcfse ' 
;tibit jBJm ni^ would havef' 
otfaafria^;^£or fKwr ^s.^qit^ bade <iB our pledgeand 
-. -, -1 •-; 

our love and detenninatibn.\Saint Petei's,tears as tbe' code crowed woe iezfiatetecptedsely because lie had fcedy'diosen to, follow^ Jesus.; ; ' • , , ;: 
\ME CHRISTIAN is lUMer ntp, law code, ais were die^Aosai people of ;thc Old 
!> 
Testament. All statutes,, laws smd ordinances ^^^way to, one sim^iJie , law: To love: the Lbini with all ourself 

-and to love our ndglbbors asToiirself. Once again this is not imposed: diis is undertaken. We say we will 
love. -/ , :,:-• •: •'•-'-•:•'_ ,'--.'-•>-.-T 
I don't know ^ y this is'true^ibut die custom; still exists among Gidiolk educators of o^yej^g the idea diat we are bdiind^by die. Ten Command-, ments. We are not! St. Paul miakes very dear that we are not bound by any of dielaws of the.01d'Testa­moit; not by the ten, not by'the 10,000 commat^ men^ Li feet, if .you go bade and' read die ^^en 
,C6inmandments you will see diere are some u^udi . we have conqJetely ignored. .,;; /," ,. ^ J \ 
One of d>e Tta Commandments «^iidi we" have dropped is "Thou shalt not m^aiiygravm images." However, the constantOis^m of Christian art of mak­ing all sorti of siaaed imag^ has led us to.siniply edit, die Ten Commandments and l^ve that one out. We do not keep holy the Sabbadi day..'I1ie.Sabbath day is like any pdier day in die wedc We~ have freely undertaken to: do, certain .diingt^on Siuiday wliidi is not die &bbath day. Besides, the tat on Sunday was not instituted until die fourth century in any case. 
: Actually the Jewsjwete'rendered afavwr by die Lord «^o told diem .^lat it was he e^^ected diemi to do. Their law, in a way, put diem at dieir ease;, because now dieir. obligations' to: God were made d^nite. They no longer had to fear diat Gpd, like diel gpds of dieir nei^ibc^ °u^ ^ g^^ out, of bed in alxid mood one morning and destroy them. This wasa god: who was capridpus and arbitrary and tmpredictable. The whole point of the. Old Testament now was %it.God was hi^ y predictable c and'consistent. He told them :i^t it was they must do to plea^ .Him. , -. ^ .. ' 
) Nevertheless diis did have a^dtawbadc His claims upon thetn were limited; Mow, howieVer,^Jesus makes very, dear diat His daims vpoa diosie diat follow Him are not limited as were diose of die Old Testament. They are nowfuhlimited. And that is -vAiy He abolishes all commandments in feyor\of one ­ample, bpencnded requirement—to love, widi your idible heart, widi your i^ple soul'and widi your il^ole strengdi. '•' : , ' ,'-,._ •' -: _!-, 
AiUAANOS JULY 1»«7 AUdST \ ' 
&'. 

!-^. -• .-, ^/^• • '•••••• •"?Vi-'$( V l .j^r^''­
The daimsr of ,loi«e, att. iibc-Im.,.iiniiit btt^moce­urgent; not las dxicsete'ntt^mm ootiaet^tiian die ! daims'of^Iaw would ber> 
•,<:H>' 

They are ,r are unlunhal^'Ilieze: 

~/"i 

is no end to the dams thtf ^Sod p ^ 
~have' never, d<ne, aHkidlL? T1iey>aieinM3ce~xoiic^ .because if diis' ixally takeslb^^li^'us, tfaentheieV a'fre^ cravii^'imd'iseiiati^'foc'& nei^ibor, puridii&s to the comdxnweald^ %nnriaJ. justice in-Jts isa!A''9^iSui'xa^ ediks, tmdifiiliT^ "cpDiag^ cfaatrti^^ Ebye dpes/npt {Koyide ah instmctivie,knowledge v& how-to act loW ingly in:{>phtics,::femi^>lne^ b^aie3s.:ar me<fidne. Bin itldoes, provide a aaniig to seusdi/'ioc siidi concrete knowledge; Love dbei^ not {mm^^answecs, 
but hopefuUy,^k stirroilatM may^^ii^ would be a^ked imder a n^ne «tf,!aw. ,, •, The i^ide: ppint^abdutjLur-is. ttrstpps you from asking questioiis, aldtau£^ liwyer^ indent may -want 
-V-i 

to contradict .'me on. dus. 'But: lovie should' pnxnnc .usto a^ more and mpreqaotions, tb look fiitdiec;'; 
I diink.diat nqoe. <^-us wmld stoi^cxrer'a laidr:, none of lis wouldJwalk by a star^ig inan;.nPhe of. us would n^ecta^d|ymg inan.;.,Bitt pethqn God has not undertJeen^to ptft-a^'of diese peo ^ in^fixntf of our padis and it b ejected of us 1» take a few stq>s out <^ our way to look foir diem. -And^dus inay, in iaxXy be vJiete we fails , -. /7^ . ""; ; 
oveeauHy die'iiltiinate :pi ^ (^ any Qttisdan moral; actkm is die a»­sdenooTlie kst-Jud^mdit/is onty an appdkte'bouit to smew wfaedier CH:.fnot we hin« obeyed die lower, 
bench of txirvom c(»i5daice.Y No audibiity exists wfaidi can focce a manto dini^ard his ownoonsdenPe.: ^ The Seomd :Vatican'~Coiiiicil made it very jJ ^ diat man: has'tbttl civil liberty in diis,r^td, dat.nb. power ^nuiy doeroe a man against lus bot.cpnsdence. But ^ Council did flindl a bit in hesitatingto: a^ty thu even. to. the sbde^, wfakfa) we call the Churdu I don't diink this was gbpd.> No mai^ npt even die-Pop^ can~ask or shbiild:,want to ask,any.-(rf us^to 
:,act jxmttary. to our 'bitst .conscience.. " '^- 1^: Nevertheless, tfa^ seardi'fer motaL wisdom in a : : commimity is a commnnity-ventine." All of us in thp Church parddpalern^arconstant mass conference, or seminar if. you will^-wludi oouU be i^ilied die Great .­Center fbr Gmdmung Eduattkn.; The-lady, the ez-­per^ die:shqihnd)^ evtiyppe ii neededfbr.diisg^eat> system of dieda-^d balances/to woik. r' A :^ 
.41 
.•J-'. 
• -V .;;:.-^ 
.•v)*: 

; '. The Council was not simply the wodc of die> >. 7jnshops; it, was notthe wodc of the Pcpejit i»as not-.. genmtiow'V d>^ OniiOL^ 'i we really b^eve 
-Hie wodc of die theologians; it was iiot dbewpik of '<.,.in theiClnndi,'^^: have to bcJiive not'.stmply. in 
all db maga^es and papers which had sudi gteat ' die r Qititdi \ past bii^, also ''in mie v^Chiicdli: poesent' 
influence on it Who is to trace how many, people " and io&i, eveh m :die^CInudi fiiitute wfaidh will 
had a hand in the Vatican Council? Howrmany \ answer ques^otB^^iidh we can«>t answer teday..;,v, 
mllions did?- In many ways it did ezacdy what-it ' "AutKiai^.!;in^die'Chuiidli''fau a.lbngltnulition, 
should have done. It spoke the mind of_.dief Chutdi. -.; but k (ioes'^tiitk''ga back ta,die New Testament 
I believe dut in our Churdi diete ace given Autocniiy' m'die'Ohurch, if ai^wfaeie; caoK from 
leadeis «^o ate not simply cjiosen by bur pj^ ^ bu^., ~ diie Rdman Empire; not £Edm Jesus' establishment of 
in a way, commissioned gehetadon after genetadon fcom Christ-^rfirough die apostles, diroug^ ^i r ^^ foUoiweis on and on to diose \A)a ate comnxated bish(^ today. But I would also bold that diere ate no ptocedutes for leadersb^. in our ChuccL ^ Our '' Quitdi has uised many ditfetent stmctuces of-leader-.^ 
-^ jhy and it wU use. many others wWdi we cannot noW. ^ima^ne. None of these ate built into die.Chucdu " The Qiutdi emerged ft«Mn die Roman-Em{nie 
looking suspiciously like a htde onpic^'with tfae^ Vqipt in die trading and, indeed, rivaling-the oi^iie and bishops acting suspiciously like piefects. In a society where organization could only be. attanged autocratically,-die ^ Church was autocraJEic Li.^ a 
.society jvfaeie men find lixy wodc best toother 
'throu^ odier structures and 'prot«dute§ 'dubii^ n^di mote talk'back and foith, ditpi^ ~a mote ­sid>de and much more intricate arrival at consensus, die Churdi too begins to pick iqi'diesc ptodbdutes.! But I diink we have a ialst conscience about autoc­racy 'and feel that somehow die / clergy and die hierardiy, if they do not act autocratically, ate.not 
•
acting as Peter and the 12 had actedfand diis, I thinks is fa^ ^v }S 

•
 We have too long kept to primitive procedures of leadership in the Churdi. At a time «^ n we 


~aoe urging die laity to step forward and |take part in the leadership of the Churdi, I-tlunk we have to tiealize diat this means exacdy what it says^: that diey will particq)ate in maldng-decisions. The laJty '^ alteady ddes;— simply by being, receptive or"un­ieoq>Hve to whatever the clergy aruHiierardiy wiish to say to them. But there should be a far- mote '. active sharing in leadershq) dian diete is now. v-;' 
V 
:THmK authority -in the Churdi, d<>cs not 
I ;^Teside in a! few, but in all of us. Nor just in die officers, bit in eveiycme. Authority arises froin a disdission «^iich i^ in^ a'way, or-: ganized and presided over by.^ the i^oets but 
pot monopolized by diem. The officers, have onepar-^ die Qnudi. ^TIiae'B a problein'm'the Churdi today; 

diat people bind^ away fimb pMple.in audiority,,£E«]^ 
the offioea m'jdieClifitdi'vdio dijAike^die'lobsaimg 
hoM they lttyety<m^|)C^^V consciences. >-/ 
^ I q«fgue<lliis jto diie sttua^on (rf afamily triiose 
.. 7

chjldcm ane .hfginriii^ to etnetgCy fitom adol^cen^ 
Studentsihete' fnqbmdy: confess th^ have, been dis­
obedKtit~.to;^diiar~ pticnts and I take ^them iq> on 
diis and^adctbein whether dikt is'teaOylacauate. 
By the time diej^;ootnerliese,diey ate no..loiiger in a 
situation wheie' mt puents coaunaod, mi diildtien 
sitnplyob^. Tfaeiri^tipnsh^ « ^ dinr patents is 
shifting itito'sioaiedltng far capce niatiue. 'And fi^t­
ever the Inieala!^im'in that idkti(nishq>, yoii would 
nc^ call Ataa brakdowns '^ disobedience.. They ace.' 
not wmqtng in^ the'' sort j ^ oniradesh^ diat |tfa^^ 
bodi.must have n^ieh diey ate adults.-. <; 
f I^ink'die Qundi is'moving .that way as lay7 
people move mbce mtp tneir^adult cole^'in die Chiicch., 
And we will'^fiia^that^conscience oaves die thought; 
that every one^^fvw facing die-ptobleiiis'diat we­
persoiiaUy miist^faoie i^ould feel quite jl«t-if we did 
not have die'Clnadi^ to lely upon.'Not'that our in­
structions iare-aU'scaled mtoTan mvelope for us, but 
that ,we d^end -ye^: much- oii diat onpoia^ and 
ccMnmdn rxplanation, diat wisdom «^di is to be' 
found here, diece and eveiywh^ in die ChutdL And 
pedi ^ diat jk nnir seivic^ a mbre'lubde service diat 
dte offioets^cin rBader to d»^layniea~itI'the Chtitdi, 
is that theyvrill awalra laymen's consciences and ask 
{(x dieir^bd^' in fisidnig out what exacdy it is diat 
we as Christians must'dou ' •' -; --•'_;,;•'•'.' . -wv • 
• I dpi not diink :deis is a conflict between con­sdencx and aiidiori^/ ri^dy undetstbod.-I diihk, indee4 di^^need-one another. :>'^ ' 
:• Rsv. JAMBS.Bi^naiffiu.CSC.ur_« spedaBa mjhelfM'of 
• biUieJ tbaJofy.^ie^fialnDtme^gMuie:who^imw it m-^tub-. uia pnfateritt, Aii Vrmtigmtf:'netiftiji dtgne m statd' tbtokg/ fimf Gngtiim Uw^aty m'-'Kome, 't^lkaitidtejm stiend thtiloip ffim.lbe~Cmhi&LVmrt«i^.af.Mmai^ a'luKMof^itgrttm 
juaed tmpom from^ t^^ Comnisiom m Rome­<ad iit PhD fiimCiii^nige Umhaiij in En^limi. ., 
'^y.: . AUIMNUS'JULY 1M7 AUGUST 
^-<v-. 



"p^' 



J, PHILIP GLEASON 

why bother ! being or Catholic? 
ANY YEARS AGO, in ffcpgnitioil lot faithful semce- as an altar bey, I tKcived a fancy little! automatic pendl widi a legai4.$tan^)ed along die. barrel. That legend sums vf 
a veiy old-&shioned Cadiolic attitude and suggests 
, a shot^ and now utiacceptable, answer to the qu ^ tioh we are to consider. It,'read: "I bar the .tide Cadiolic^ most.honored name on eardi!'!; ' The pMidl is long.i»nce lost and gone, and so is the triijmphalism it ^itomized^ ^Yct at< the time it 

' dui not seem eidux otitragpcus or pathetic Voc i^uai .~dlic jounalismjjEw tbe-^st th ^ lioows V 
I wias growing i]^, Cadiolics did not doubt diar^he .(Zhiirdi'was the Rock <^ Peter; that.it was die ttudi ~^ and had ^ trudi; and^ that non-CathpUcs, aldiou^ diey niij^t have the greatest good will and saanlHf, wen ncoedieless wandering in die darkness. And it did not sieem malidmis to ku^ at die, t^oct si^, pdsedlyj^ven byra Cith<^ v ^ had left the Church when he was asked if he had joind a; Protestant de-, 
. ncNnination.. 'XX coutse ml," the>'ansyver rati, 'T. have Idstlnyjaidi, bitt not my reason." 
NoWj of course, matters juye. diangnl drastically.'. The ecumenical ^movement^ f^iidi was already under^ way earlier, was' g^ven a tremendous impetus by die v Coundl, ahd Gufaolics now,have quite,diffnent ideas, . widi a'telijgwn^mciiiipoliMg o^doqlL We arej 

.-fcir' exiimpl^^; diat^dierotd .mle^i^tmi^af-'dke; ReC-^.^-''.; ocmatioa^.wa*-un£ur to LaAa: aadrAe^c^^ "-­. formes; ao4 die Gi^o&iBipoiiK to tlie^enimaliaiiv v ^ 
•;r-theCoimdl/of-Trent—iu hkmit iiiffohcLmfs ?~­
miidi of dielieoetit dtnostton^'irfiat \aieheaa.wmag,''' -Ij Iwidi die Ckndi in die past 30(1 ycJosT,' H.^'^ y^S^^^ 
neaa -rfpunid fa^itiotiaF jStWiofii^^v rand ^nfttdiy -for, tnoge'. JEuiiiieiiy.' -, .diot ^ ••rf'-as.x-^oitadiw," '^Ajw'-liii--/' 
' been.ia,'ndScal'-ctitiqDe /,o(.; Gidiolfc'-;.'^, -' 

,belie£i. This'ccidqiie^Miidbes ' CInircfa, on mattersflf^cultacA'aeeA uA.aik^m^ '^•atdtiides^.: •..-,• V}^;'':'''] >'_"''^Ji,v\-<=;'../''~'^ •}V^'' 
^. 

^ Let us take dtt Quuc^ &st ;It i^^^^^ cotn^t,*^ says Fsulitt>HeA«it»^^ -; And anytm iidib,ha»rrml^nwdi of'a^^ 
:thiu the Clutch baIso^audx)c^«an^bui»alC^uic^~;^^ tigM, nelmnt andn^ a tiue^coipini^ dllaxy organs—sudias^paioa^ and: tdi^qus ocdetsr-^ittw,UkeWisevb^ roastme. Tfae^^institutkod Gbindi^ii^'becooK « J 
\ so badly mauled diat ;even~afroiit4ne<lIimIger lib^ .' 
Eugene Fontinell felt oodstnined to pidilish anarade -':-^ . m Amem'tf on dK.imiMdbmce and^need'iocrintna-' ^r. ''ti(»s^in''wjr,o(guii>ed'feB^gioa..-.' •••';>':•'r-"*:-^~f';:^;--'•'•^$^, \7 In ze^tt .tofjoi^^.tlkiera-mMr.dimii^ 
Utiugyr7lt;Wasfaoidiy out jbf \toiii^ widi iiibc..ti|m eadier,' but die -ciouvttska tcTdiie'j^^ V ing ^ a mber tQ^CdmiNdiifc^ cif^Vk *4.^ff&'*^^P* 
-X

aboiit didr sqnrated bieduen. We have come to ^ merdiybniug^ o ^ i^ . diS^^opBo-Ii^^abnir^t^ 
-•^­

-••J ':('/: , N'-*-
AUMkNUS JULY 1M7 AUGUST 
.v. 
irfiple fonn of die liturgjcal oddwatioa realty was. The Sammcnts -aie also being, reexamined. The term "transubstanuaaan" wm't do any more; and ~ Confessicm has fallen to sudipiadous estate that it is hard to understand how writecs like Goetfae and ; t^wdirane ever regarded.it as an asset to die Rontisb 
. The credal situation-has also, gotten rather con­fused. ^What exadly are we si^xised to believe any more? Last year Daniel Callahan desrtibed the isAr ing.of "spiritual slum dwdlets" -vilip/ could not say^ for sure that they had .ever haJcTany aqxiriehce of the sacred and who were consequendy unceruin of die, existence of any "ttanscendenbd"'realm beyond the. 
, here and now of daily secular ciistehre. Mr. Calla­han also finds the term "afterlife" rqxignant, and more recendy Jie has counseI«i diat cansciendous 
-Catholic parents should not keep from dieir diildren their own doubts and perplexities of faith.^ Callahan is surely not.the only one v^o has diese problems. The most crowded lecture last year iii Saint Mary's Christianity and Culture Series, incidentally, was de­voted to the "Death of God" theologians: 
In die realm of _moral attitudes, it is clnr diat nbdiing less than a revolution is in prbgriss. For some, the major moral problems connected'widbi birth 
' control these days center^on when the P<^ will quit telling lies about what the Catholic position is and «jien die .Church will stop obsttiicting population control in die undeidevel<^>ed world. The Chur<ii, it seems, has been d^ul wcong^and inhimian^to^ boot—in its whole teaching on sexual morality, i Clrriral celibacy is under fire, magizine articles are 
: asking for a new look at divorce, the'be^nnings of a shift in respect to abortion may be taoted and a "modem priest^" writing in LooJ^'advises his "out-~ moded Church" that premarital sexual ceL^ins'are not ipso facto vnoag, •,., 
LL OF THE FCXtEGOmc is Surely 6uniliar enoiig^ My rieasbn for rchrarsing it here is^diat'diis: vast shaking of the foundations of belief and attitude, has ^ ~ boih—-^coiild not help biit be^ a tte­mendous shock to vast numbers (^ Cadiolics.: .Lt 

die qoe ^ :*my Bodier Bo^^ (^tMc?" Ob--I 
. vioa^y,>^' foR^on^ Ucak rhiiilirringt about die gene^ pidiue ate^noc to tliat pceme pot^ Wbaf is to dK ti(Unt4S'dat.eadi ot'us fai:'«^om-diif be^. coma «;.Iive^qui^tioo has to answer: it on his own terms, r And'snce ve^ few of-us cnnmand eijpeit knowledge tn the^aiteas direcdy at'issue ;;-^ not bdng for. die most^'patt ed^esi^ l^lical^fsduJars, dogniati^:nic«al,-sarrammt»I or v^iat-haye-you kinds of tlieplogianai—-diat means that we have to answer dielguesrion outtof our ow^ Teiperience, 6dr exper­ience as men aiid-as believecs;^ What I shall have, to sa.^ rqnesents; dut sort of lisponse. It does not dam-to be badced i^ by any^eqiertise in:theology or'phiU»(^y, nor does it draw particulady on any field of history in v^iidi I am professionally involv^ 
;.'",A'''' ••' ••-:-•' -•'•,,'"/'(''' '.:••:•'.,.. '-^ • 
IHE FIRST POINT'I want to make is 
that diis question is a fimdamrntaHy ''m^ibctant (me, for it has .to do with -J,personal identity. None of us is "just 
,' /~ -a man." We -are all patticulaj: kinds of men^—and die kind of man we are or who we are, is <kfined by a number oi ^:^fic'equalities. Sudi quaUties, for exiin^le, are sex,-age, fatnily status (&t&r^ husband,'^etc}, rac^'nationality, Jangiiage, profeisabn, social: position and so on. 
V Among diese qualitiK or a^iects of personal iden-. tity^ tdig^on-locxns. very larg^ if i we jmiderstand reli­gkm to encob^uss that aspect of (Oiir; identity diat has-to'do;with sudi ultimate questions as die exisr trace of jGpd and the nature (^ teali^ and with ediicalconvictibns-about gpod and evil,, die sort of life a man^should^live aad die values society should promote.^ Thenifoie,'our aniswn-to the question "Wby Bbdier Being, A Cadiolic?" is'profoiindly important, becaiise h'touches on. who" we are, on whedier _we are to |d)on bang'die land of person we luve been. • 
p=: ^eobndly L would ar ^ that- die \^dioice. is' not between bra^^aCathc^ and faemg sao^y fiilly a humane or even betwKn beii^ a Catholic and being fully a" (Tintfian.; The duMoel, that is, is not between 
- sotne soctjof narrow identity (Catholic:) and a com­{Jcttty openimded'; or4 uoldifferentiattd or univeisal huinan ^enti^.l:. AU . ani partic^^ of men 
deec^ I think it would be a shod: to evemmote if .: 

and^,tf,^ <»i».to' be.Cathpli^^ we mll'iiievitably 
everyone were aware of .tbeffull dimenaons of die ^ 

^become-sbm^;other particular kind of< person in re­
movement diat is under way., k die context of diis 

elect to our yiewsTon'the hindamental qiustions to 
.revolutionary atuation, die qu«tion "^OPhy Hotter' 

^vtidx Qdwlicum. g^ves uS-answers.. ; v 
Baag A Catholic?" ccHistitutes, it seems to in^ .a 

' ...^'ObvioBH^y'^.m obnbt enter/into any analysis of 
direct diallenge to faith'itself. " r- '•- /;-. . '•-­

ditt. But die geneed. pcMttt is diat oat does n ^ lib­
\ But now «^ t isto be said direcdy in leipdoseto'' 

/•• . ente hims^^fimmTqiKsdoiis asto t ^ ultiiiiate mea» f 
AUIMNUS JULY. 1W7 AUGUST 

• (•--..;• 
ing of the wodd and of ^t by casing to .be a Cath­olic. To give answers to diigse qtitstijcms, or to refuse to give them, is to takea pe^ticm dat exdudes o^ ^ possibiUties. Being; "com^etelyopm" is not, in'ny (pinion, a: meaningful aKetnative to being a Csuholic. 
;,Y^raXT~(ZNERAL POINT is that it. a <fMt posible dut one m^ V aixive at die poatiod diat itiis not wprdi«4iile being a jCathoIic' any morel merely as a, result of drift rather than deliberate choice. In a peapd cf u|rfieayal such as the prtsent—otie that toids to nuiddle tUn^' . previously, duu^t- setded, land to discredit one's earlier beliefs and' self-image—die very temper of die times mig^t cause.one to lose interest, to ^xnv slack, not to care so much any mote. Hence a^^ man mi^t wake iq> some moniing to find thav.for all intents and puiposes,.he really wasn't v^t'he tued 
^to be, diat he had become a cMerent person teU^ously without' ever consdousty deciding to be different. Then die question 'Why Bp^Bem g A CaAolic?"­would be "irrelevant^ because it wouldn't really apply ai^ lon^r. . ' 
But should q^iestions like this be'settled by drift? E)rifting in these.matters is really slij^ng iiito die unexamined life 1^ slow,easy stages. The religious aspect of one's identity is usually given by tradition and tqibrin^ng, but udlike stxne other aqiec^ (such as sex or race); it can be dianged by conscious choice. And it is so important an aspect dia^ it seems to me, it should be (haiigri by deliberate dicnce if it is going to be dianged atalL ' ,, 
Drifting is, of course, much easier^dun taking thought and niaking choices about viho we are andl who we want to be. It requires a crisis ,of some stut to jar^us into this paioful land of personal choice. (Consider, by way of analogy, the sort of situations that cause, people to decide to idiang^ dieir nation­ality.) I am hot stouthearted enou^ myself to want~ to cxMifcont this sort of situation every day; and as a; general'diing L do not dunk di& human peisonali^ can; stand crisis - choices nniih of the time. But if crises do con&ont us—-aiui each inan must dedcfe for himself:—th^ they do and we nuist.make die. best'ol it---' ..' .-'• 
^leb'gious cxisKs, however, tend^ focus our diink;-^: ing.along lines which, aldiou^ thqr ate inevitable, strike me as unbealdiy, <x at least as very j^t ^^ ^ a directwti dut eaisily becomes imbealdiy.. This result follows fccHn die.fact that^W^find ourselves'icenter­ing our attention upon ourselves^ Instead of focusing 

AlUAANUS JULY 1947 AUCSUST • ' ^ V \ 
cm'die object iii fiat fim w findTp^ma jmafing more and nkct ioJalu-tiii^tfAfe: 
X> 

;a^^ Do IftesdJ^. bdkwr miGpd^vj^^^ ^iidi ^^iaudiaiticr V^^ be««d^iaoe<}sti^i^ hnself that I acenc'^ ; W»K> at'<Caaiigniwn' ai' embddyii^ Obiist realj^-piaaqit? 'Ddt J- wpririkc ^ fedhig of'^ttiKr dxnmuu^o^ktf']^^ m/' prayor ineie^ pittemS?,^ABa I 'not' usmg'^.fai^ ^:«i ^ a'-^ outtch?' Should I notbefliote ffittitm 
'ingmydoiibts?. iinoti^rwhole't^g^a' tiefuge, an ezcuseVfbc my feuhne to go^oi^ into the-, --< "secular cit)^ and. fight ^^aintt; die evib^^of lhe>,l^; T 
\ • Oat caimot avoid quesdons: Ifloe: thoe at ndie.. ptesmt And if a fietm cIo^;ii6t pose tfaem.t^ ,self,^dim are mu^^anuiid us^^t^ atte&> '; tion tQtdiem. insiitendy. Botudiile we must confront" .^ diemi,\it is, in mjrcopmion, pcalouafly.. unchristian ) to dwell cm tfadm OKJuttvely or to taise^men to - tiie~ level of die first ptkuity and antinuouscdnoein. It is undiristian becaioe tt^nnkes the sdf^tfaeTpriiiciixd object of our lel^j^dus conscJonnite. This isldie.V 
-worst fonndf iciolatty;'fer it b God and die ;diing|i^ of G(>d that demand die^^atfisitun and jdevdtknirf die religious matCnot the hone^.df hb own mctives: ­or the quali^ of his owit-tedin^ ,Vrj;^' , Neither is it fe way>tc> arnve'atifinnness of faith^~: solidity of commitntent bc.putity of itil^don, alwi^ . tc)^ be ^CToss<xainining ourselves as to our assurance. ^, that we poissess than. Lxkec^deliiiente self-juuj^rst*:. ~^ of a tnentat; state.^ b the soriest lin^ ^ die ; 
mental state that is'the obje^Of-analysis.. Hem many fewer- happy marruges wduld we have^if idl hurfiwh : and wives cc»istandy interrogated thooasdvcs and eadi x\. other' with such liu d qiMstipns^ as:'.Do we teaOy 
.have a happy niarri^? Are j m sim~ yooJi^^ be better off with someone else?-Do you honesdy­
'V -' •' ' ~ "••'•'- .. ( -"^ *-~ .• '-' ' " -; • - •' 
mean it fdimycM'say I/am be»itiful?.:Is our love . audientic and fu% human?; '\ -.^ /'-<;­
^HE C^tURO^ has been cntiQaed for its ,. fondnea fo^yd6ircut^ annKn> sedJing; questions pcoxatuidy, for an 
'imwillmgpess to Uiktiate Taml^i^itax 
Tbese^. ([Xttioans.-'lm^ «(^>f^^ But' die critics'^insistenlse diat d>e OiostKm miist almys be^cxanmiii^ Mmsdf .ra die'j^i]uality.6f his religicws te^Mnse.seemi^to^ine anqdier.fbim.af dus ; 
drive tb:,gettfaii^ setded «k s and,for JdL . ~ ._ . Weil thm, \Wiy BcAtt^Bd^pA Cd»li ^ ^-^ I have acUrnsed diis^cjuestion jbom-lhe viewpoint ­
of pne^who has always been a Catholic^ one to iRiom':' 
•\:'4:-. ..• 

?:-v 
tlK qiiesticHi is a challenge to jusdfy himself in view of die many criticisms directed against die Cburdi and Cadiolics. In a nut^iell, my answer is diat one must confront die present situation—die changes, die criticism, die new a^>proaclies and all diie rest— in die lig^t of lus own experience. . 
^ He must ask himself to what degree it all rings ttiie, how far it corresponds to,his own oqierience as a Catholic Has he personally known in his life in die Quirdi sudh a degree of crushing audioritarian­ism, institutional blindness and ^intual irrelevance that it outwei^ odier considerations? Can he find elseirfiere, or construct for himself, a religion diat brings him more sads&ctorily in contaa widi the divine (assuming he believes in sudi a dimension to reality), that teadies him better toundetstand hiin­self, that uign:iqpod'him b^ierkleals) diat holds out a: more ,transcrnclant>hop(e to man ai^ sode^ and thiat offers better promise of comxting its defects as i£ goes ,a]i»ig? /"^ 

H he ariswins yes t6 all diese questions,'^en he should obviously no idoger both^ beii^ aCathiJic If he cannot daiin to answer these questions affirmar tively, dim die bodier of remaining a Catholic will not seem so fftat, fee he willfittd himself uking widi St Peter: 'Ixiod to ybom shdl wie go? Hiou hast words of evedasting life." 
J. PHILIP,GIEASOI«, Maslmt'frofaser ef hittarf, it * sptdJitt in Amakmi httUatual hutory. He is~t mtmitr ef the Amtricmi Histoncd'AtsoaatipH'mtd has..€oiitnbtUed artidet lo fcb jomub <u, Agridilmn Hbnxy,-Williaia and Maqr Qtuhiify miJ The Ptnonilnt.' A .graituit m bushtts tducanon M the U. ef Dayten, he Mds-^maite^t mid PhD from Notre Dam. . 
ONTiNUiNG EDUCATION is not a new amcept -ilie AiuMNUSutged 
it 40 years ago.- The new factor is diat it is no longer an intellectual 
luxury but a practical nc^xssity. -Hie neW madxt has been aeated by: 
the explosion of knowledge. Academic-obsolesdence is nowfigured in 
short years. Notre Daine's emphasis'<»i die programs of continuing education is not just the result of the Continuing Education Center; sigtuficant­as that is in progress. -We-^realize on the can^xu today, land especially for our alumni, that we live in a world of dialogue. Hie control of diis dialogue J can be die dedding factor in vital segments of our future society. We cannot mit imtil more venturesome agents have created and directed,-dus dialogue. Even at die' risk of controvert and dissent amcoig ourselves, it is in^wttant that the problems of our time, should be currendy cjqiosed to die study'ol ^boise n^iwe educational preparation should dictate their coiisideration and scJtition. We believe in the pur-: pose of Notre Dame. And believing, we camiot afford to hesitate in involving our alumni in the dialogue of the.day. Our continuing, (education pnyams may inot solve our problems.-But we mil make our ptcper codtifliutbn to the new dimensioii of mediaticm in the worid-that has bteadied die walls of our campuses. And we will multiply die probabilities .of successful solutkns d( our praUeiitt, based on truth and die'dighity of itnan. - -^ .-'* . > 
ts*^ 


-1*^ 
t»-^i 
9AY 
^v -•'XNJ . . . ^ 

 >'0u miss our RICE WELSH '30. column last time? I BURNIE BAUER FRANCIS £. KESICKE has been elected pres. did — and I hope you and a director of the Ninth Federal Savings and did, too — but for dif­. Loan Assoc, in New Yoik. 
1139 Western Ave., 






1938 Did 

ferent reasons. Some­South Bend, Ind. 46625 JOHN COLLINS, in the service station and U-
how the deadline notice got buried vdth the ^nd­up of our Indiana Legislature which went into overtime. I got a suspension of rules but still lost my **Fair Bus" bill (to transport parochial as well as public school students) by just one vote!! 
I only hope that absence makes the heart grow fonder and that you silent lads ^vill not only be heard from, but show up next June for our 30th Reunion! 
That's right. Next June we're up to bat. Start making plans now. Those who made the previous four gatherings of the clan — there was none for our fifth year during the ^\'ar — vfill need no coax­ing. For you others it may be your last chance to meet with friends with whom you spent the best four years of' your life. 
Our latest loss is NELSON VOGEL who served as treasurer for our 25th Anniversary Reunion. Nellie died April 8, several days after a fall in his home. Local classmates JIM BEAUDWAY, DON FISHER, BILL GIBBONS, DON HICKEY, JOHN PLOUFF and CHUCK SWEENEY were pallbearers. Nellie left his uife Carolyn and four sons: Nellie Jr., a senior at Miami U. in Ohio; Mike, married and H\-ing in Nashville where he works at Genesco; and Greg and Tom in high school. He had his own accounting firm. The most lo>*al of friends, he was the best of what is meant by a true ND man. 
Our condolences also go to JOHN MURPHY who lost his mother and to JOE MANNEBACH whose mother also died recently. **Murph" still • helps Ara mold his Fighting Irishmen while Joe lives in Kcnilworth, 111. 
This June was a big one for Rev. JOE CIECKA 
1939 
JOSEPH E. HANNAN 1804 Greenwood Dr., South Bend, ind. 46614 
Our Class ne\%'S in the last issue \f2S rath­er brief; but, because of a shortage of com­
1940 
munications from all but three of you, this column will be the shortest I have ever submitted. 
From Idaho Falls, Idaho, J. ROBB BRADY forwarded the following information: He is editor of The Post Register in Idaho Falls. For the past year, he has been chairman of the State Atomic Energy Advisory Committee. In June he mil be chairman of the annual Utah-Idaho-Spokane AP meeting in Spokane. He is the father of two sons, teaching skiing in the winter, and is developing a ranch near Idaho's primitive area, Stanley, Idaho. 
DON GILLILAND, much better known as "Chubby," writes from Phoenix: "As JERRY SAEGERT, the most prolific writer of the Class of '40, reported, we had quite a session at the So. Cal. game last Nov. Understand MIZE MORRIS 
The post card inserted in the ALUMNUS pro­duced six responses and two letters. 
1943 
JOHN FLYNN MD practicing ophthalmology in Bay Shore, Long Island, writes that he has two daughters, one in first-year med. school in New York, another still in college. 

Rev. CLIFF ATWOOD CSC, St. Joseph's Church, Kileen, Tex., wrote: "Am back in the States since October, after spending 14 years in high school and parish work in Santiago and Las Rocas de Santo Domingo, Chile. At present I am director of St. Joe's parochial school working with Latin Americans in Kilccn and nearby Ft. Hood. Pastor is Fr. AL COR\fIER '42 and Fr. ANDY MULREANY '28. Being in the States I hope I can make our 25th next year." 
From GEORGE B. HUTH, who opened a Snelling & Snelling personnel consultant office in Gulfport, Miss., comes word that he would be happy to show classmates possibilities of the Gulf area. Huth had worked as assistant to VP for manufacturing for eight years at the world's CSC who commemorated his 25th anmversary of 
ordination June 25 at St. Sunislaus, South Bend. 
Father was bom in La Porte, attended Sacred 
Heart and La Porte HS and worked for the 
Herald-Argus as a printer's devil before deciding 
to go after the devil full time. Bishop Noll or^ 
dained him in 1942 and he has ance-served various 
parishes in South Bend except for four years at 
Holy Trinity in Chicago. Ad MmJtos Annas! 
Received a bit of mail this time. PAUL ANDER­
SON wrote from 3106 Bergman, PSttd>mgh, sug­
gesting that each member send in f 1 a year for a 
Mass fund for deceased classmates. P^ul plans on 
making the Michigan State game (who isn't?). 
Better stiU, he wiU try to get JAKE KOVAL­
CHICK (who threw those bullet passes) to come 
for the 30th. Paul teaches political sdence at Du­
quesne. He has a son who has finished college and 
•mother still in college. He also will have a daugh­ter at Duquesne next fall. In addition he has two in high school and one in grade schooL 
JOHN LYNCH wrote from Ashtabula, Ohio, after vidting two married daughters in Reno, Nev., and San Jose, Calif., where he sawr his son-in-law wia. the Kaiser Aluminum Invitation Golf Touz^ ney for the second time. John has another daugh­ter in high school and one who is libnurian at Kent State. Frcs. of his county Mental Health Assoc, and state board director, John is interested in exchanging information with others. He was president of their school board and sees a lot of JACK 1LL\HO-XEY and his brother JOE *44. a county prosecutor; also, ED BARCH '31, BEN KLEPEK '52, a high school principal, and MAU­
hitched a ride all the way from Mexico, Mo. Speaking of Mo., what do you hear from NORV 
•SKINHEAD' HUNTHAUSEN? See BILL JOYCE occasionally and hear from TOM "GRANDPA" FLAD once a quarter." 
Chubby also mentioned that Jerry Saegert lost his mother in January. Let us all remember her in our prayers. Chubby also accuses me of tr^ng to ruin his health at the last Reunion. But that memorable affair was strictly the result of the efforts of our fine local committee. 
JOE MULQUEEN also used one of those ALUMNUS cards to tell us: "My life since Marine Corp days has been filled with raising eight chil-
ROBERT G. SANFORD 233 W. Central Ave., Lombard, III. 60148 
dren (four boys and four girls). At this point we have four in or graduated from college and four about to go. Our oldest, Joe Jr., is married and a Lt. (jg) USNR in Norfolk, Va. I have been busy teaching CCD classes in our parish, St. Denis, to high school students from the local pub­lic school. Saw BOB BURNS '42 at a party re­cently and he is still a gay, fun-lo^ng boy de^ite his busy life with eight chilflren and a corpora­tion of his own." Joe's return address was 400 Campbell Ave., Havertown, Pa. 
largest cabinet plant. He also put in a year as a management consultant. George has three children; the oldest, a girl, graduates from college next year. 
BUDD GANS writes that he completed 18 years with Boeing Co. in Wichita this June. He has been involved in engineering research planning and programming. Budd has three boys and three girls ranging in age from 8 to 20, all <^ whom he plans to take to Expo '67 in Canada thb summer. A stop at ND en route is planned. 
BILL MIDDENDORF writes from Washington, DC that he was in his old home town, Cin­cinnati, on UND Night and saw BOB McCAF-FERTY, JIM CLARK and JACK GILLIGAN. 
From ED HICKEY: "I see FRANK WIL­BERDING, Grosse Pointe's leading custom builder of fine homes .. . ED RONEY who completed 
JACK WIGGINS 5125 Briggs Ave., LaCrescenta, Cal. 91214 
Haul biz for the past 13 years in Missoula, Ikfont., writes he's coming for the 30th Reunion next June ' to see "if I can recognize any of you bald, fat men." Says he sees BOB SULLIVAN, Law Dean at U of Montana, and JOHN SCHULZ often, and 
still officiates at football games! 
•Received a card from BILL RILEY, our class 
, treasurer, from a Mediterranean cruise after spend­
ing the last two weeks with us at the Legislature 
lobbying for the Indiana Bankers Assoc. Makes me 
wonder about both the Class treasury and whether 
I was in the wrong area of politics. 
PAUL HUGHES wrote from Flint, Mich., where 
he is in real estate. His son graduated from John 
Carroll in 1965; but, one of his four daughters 
married an ND grad, JOHN PECK '62. Another 
is a nurse, the others are in school. Paul says he 
and BUD SHERWOOD welcome visitois. 
Dr. LAWRENCE EBY was named mgr. of the 
Polymer Div. of US Gypsum Co.'s Research and 
Development Dept., and ED WRAPP was elected 
to the board of directors of the Standard Screw 
Co. (who probably sold my opponents the materi­
als to put to me). 
Locally CHUCK SWEENEY, under the manager­ship of ED CRONIN, filed for Democratic nom­ination for mayor of South Bend and ran a good second in a strong field of five. It was Chuck's first try. Watch him in the luture. Chuck's next big job, howe\'er, as Class President, is marshalling forces for our Reunion next June. He needs help from you. Volunteer regional area chairmen are being sought right now! Send in your name today. REUNION REGISTRANTS: John O'Connor, Harold H. Sparling, Thos. Weigand. 
Would like to call attention to the fact that 
another one of our men has been honored as the 
local Man of the Year. CLIFF LETCHER re­
ceived this recognition from the Wash., DC club. 
In the last issue it was reported that FRED 
STUBBINS was in La Kfesa, Calif. Now he is back 
in Hawaii. Address changes have been indicated for 
TOM and JOHN FERNEDING. Tom is in Scotts­
dale, Ariz, and John is in Dayton, Ohio. 
ERNEST J. WILLIAMS has moved from Del. to 
Jasper, Ala. KARL F. FROMUTH now lives 
at 5413 Charter Oak Dr., San Antonio, Tex. Lt. 
Col. JOHN W. DONOHUE has moved from 
Omaha, Nebr., to 114 Lakeside St., Springfield, 
Mass. 
Why not try to snow **Shorty" tmder with news for this rather feeble column? 
REUNION REGISTRANT: Edward McLaughlin. 
1941 
JAMES F. SPELLMAN Spellman & Madden, 342 Madison Ave., Nevtr York, N.Y. 10017 
KEUNION REGISTRANT: Leo Bushman. 
an A-frame ski spot in time for a great winter of ski and apres ski in Northern Michigan. Our firstborn, Ellen, will be a Wellesley freshman (fireshlady?) this fall. I opened a resort shop for men in the Bellevicw Biltmore, Clearwater, Fla. this year—our first step out of Grosse Pointe." 
DICK MILLER MD, wrote from Waterloo, Io%va that he would be returning to Campus this summer for son Chris' graduation from ND after «^c h Chris will enter med school. Dick's two other collegians are at Carleton and Colorado W<mien's Col. Still at home is a seven-year-old son who is ticketed for ND. Miller has delivered over 5000 babies! 
US Atty. ED HANRAHAN was voted Man of the Year by the ND Club of Chicago. 
Former Class prexy and present Alumni Associ­ation President BUD DUDLEY appeared at half­time on nationwide TV coverage of the Varsity­Old-Timers spring football game. Old Dud looked in good enough shape to have been on the field with the Old-Timers! REUNION REGISTRANTS: Bob Bauchman, 
F. Gerard Feeney, Fred Hoover, Walter Ivancevic, Robert Sinon. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 
1942 
Ccmgratulations to our Class mem­bers who attended, and con­dolences to those who could not attend! Our Silver Anniversary Reunion was a smash­ing success! We had the largest number of 25th Re­union attendees in the history of the University, both in terms of percentage and number — over 220 registrants. To try to pick out an individual highlight of our Reunion weekend would be impossible because there were so many events that could qualify as highlights. We will instead give you a chronology of events to the best of our ability. Friday noon: The "Fighting Irish" Navy group had 
a reunion organized by LAJ^Y HICKEY. Among 
those in attendance were JOHN HART, DON 
O'BRIEN, ED MCLAUGHLIN, JOHN "BUD" 
GAVIN, DAVE BAGLEY, T. P. "JUDGE" CAR­
ROLL, STEVE GRALIKER, ED HACKETT, DON 
FIEGEL, CHARLES KIRBY, joined by DON MAR­
TIN, ED GRIESEDIECK, FRANK POLLNOW, 
JIM O'NEAL, SANTO BELLI. 
The Class Dinner Friday was terrific with the high­light being the slide pictures of the 1938-42 era. The terrific project was undertaken by JIM O'NEAL and CHARLES KIRBY, and other than some pictures voluntarily sent to them, they did their research work with the Dome for the four years, and ended up with some unbelievable pictures. After the dinner, we re­turned to the Rockne Lounge where FRANK POLL­NOW displayed his prowess at the piano for a song­fest. There was some occasional drinking here, too. 
Saturday morning, we had a special open air Mass at the Grotto, celebrated by Fr. ED BUENGER, with Fathers BILL BRINKER and JOE ROGUSZ as con-celebrants. It was a very impressive Mass, at which NEIL McCARTY did the commentating. At our Class luncheon, we were all pleased to hear a message from AL PLOTKIN, the "Fighting Irish Rabbi." He was excellent. FATHER JOYCE then filled us in on the current University plans. 
The parade to dinner went off well. The antique cars were a big hit, except that BOB MILLER accuses either BYRON KANALEY or LARRY KELLEY of stealing his Model "A" Ford and parking it near the beer tent. The awards for the most number of children ended up in a tie at 13 between Dr. FRANK MUR­PHY and FRANK QUINN. 
The success of the Reunion boils down to the wonderful job done by our co-chairmen, STEVE GRALIKER and JOHN MALONE (after their ap­pointment by JIM O'NEAL). There were so many individuals who contributed to the success of the event that is would be impossible to list them all. However, the regional VPs really contributed greatly — JIM DOYLE, MIKE CARR, TOM DEGAN, JIM FAY­ETTE, GUS HARDART, TOM HENNIGAN, LARRY KELLEY, PAUL LILLIS, FRANK POLL­NOW, DAN SHOUVLIN, LEO TURGEON, TOM 
ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 

REUNION MOMENTS TO BE REAAEMBERED by the Silver Anniversary Class of 1942 include talks with (top row, left to right) Steve Graliker, John Molone and Rabbi Al Plotkin; the Saturday Class mass at the Grotto, and John Kirby and Jim O'Neal narrating the slides at the Friday evening dinner. 
WALKER, JACK BERGEN, CHARLES KIRBY and JIM O'NEAL. The tremendous job by JOHN MA­LONE in doing the local things necessary including the organization of the Friday Class Dinner cannot be im­derestimated. Thanks to TED McDONALD for the artwork on the cards at the dinner. 
Recognition awards were presented to Steve and John for the Class in consideration of the tremendous amount of time and effort they put into this affair. However, through our fault and lack of foresight, no award was given to Pres. JIM O'NEAL for his ter­rific job of putting this organization together. 
—BILL HICKEY 
ejk^« 
REUNION REGISTRANTS: Erwin Aranowski, Laurence Aubrey, Camillc Aucrcmanne, David Bagley, Thos. Banigan, Santo Belli, Dr. Joseph A. Bergan, John Bergen, John C. Bermingham, George Blatt, Dr. Thos. Blohm, Camiel Brackc, Bernard Brehl, H. Clifford Brosey, Roger Brown, Rev. Edward Bucngcr CSC, Leo Burby, James Burkart, Robert Burke, Daniel Canalc, Michael Carr, Thos. Carroll, Donald Casey, Jos. Champley, John Christman, John Clifford, Thos. Cody, Donald Connors, James Conway, Robert F. Courtney, Bernard Cnmmins, Thos. G. Cronin, John Crosson, Bartholomew Crowlc>*, Warren A. Daxis, Paul Dcery, Thos. Dcgnan, Eugene Dcvlnc, David Devins, Wm. DtUhoefer, Jos. H. Dimond. Ravinond Donovon, James Doyle, Jos. D. Doyle, James Duggan, James F. Eagan, Ra>-mond Ebli, Ra>'mond Eichenlaub, Lester Fahey, Dr. Wm. Farrell, Cdr. Wm. Fallon, James Fayette, Donald Figcl, Francis R. Fox, James J. Gait, John J. Garvey, Dr. Donald Gavagan, John Gavin, Edward P. Geraghty, Thos. Gcselbracht, Francis Gibson, John Gilbert, Eugene GocUcr, John Gordon, Stephen Gralikcr, Donald Grant, Edward Gricscdieck, John A. Griffin, Victor Gulyassy, Donald Guyette, Edward Hackctt, Robert Hagan, George J. Haines, John Hanifin, Augustins Hardart Jr., Robert Hargrave, Robert D. Harrington, John C. Hart, J. Byron Hayes, Walter Heekin, Robert Heil, Jerome Heinlcn, George Henry, Rev. William Hickens CSC, Lawrence Hicke>-, Wm. Hickey, Daniel Hilgartner, John L. Hoelschcr, Donald J, Hogan, Thos. Horak, Byron Kanalcy, Charles Kearney, 

Lawrence J. Kelley, Paul Kelley, Maurice Kelly, Charles Kirby, Thos. 
M. Kirby, P^tul Knowles, Frank J. Ladky, Richard J. LaJoic, Leo Lanigan, Paul Ullis, Charles Lohr, Dr. Felix Lownik, Phillip J. Luder, Harrison T. MacDonald, Charles R. MacFarlane, Archibald A. MacLeod, Louis Majerus, John R. Malone, Wm. A. Kfarshall, Richard T. Matlavish, Robert A. Matthew?, Neil McCarty, Dr. Robert McCormick, Donald F. McGinley, Coleman McGuire, Richard E. McHugh, Howard Mcintosh, Bernard McKay, Charles McMahon, Charles McNeill, Edward K. McNevin, James McNulty, Donald Martin, Francis Meehan, John. Meyer, Robert Miller, Otto Molidor, James D. Moran, John Morns, Robert Mullaney, Thos. Nash, John W. Noda, Donald F. O'Brien, Frank £. ^ O'Dowd, Robert O'Hara, James O'Neal, John K. O'RourlEe, Murray O'Toole, Gilbert Packer, Paul Patten, John Peters, Rabbi Albert Plotkin, Dr. Louis Podruch, Francis Pollnow, Arthur Pope, Thos. Powers, Jos. Prokop, James F. Purccll, Francis B. Quinn, Wm. Regan, Floyd Richards, Philip Richards, Rev. Joseph Rogusz CSC, Jos. Rorick, Raymond Rowan, Ed Ryan, Eugene Schumaker, Dr. Francis Sellers, James Shaughncssy, Robert D. Sheehan, Vincent R. Shiely, Charles Shirk, Daniel Shouvlin, Robert J. Sibilsky, George Sobek, Anniger Sommers, Jos. Spohr, John H. Stauber, Edward Sullivan, George L. Supplitt, Paul 
J. Tafel Jr.. Dr. Leo Turgeon, Frank Veit, Thos. Walker, Thos. Walsh, Edward Weinfurtncr, Leonard (Bud) Wolfe, R. E. Wright, Wm. Yaeger, Ernest TJaamtt. 
What would you, as a 
Io>-al member of the 
Class of *44, think if 
no column appeared in 
this issue of the ALUM­
NUS? That easily could be tlie case because fewer 
than a dozen persons rallied to the urgent appeal 
of this Class secrctar>*. 
That percentage is downright lousy w*hen one considers the hundreds of individuals—graduate or otherwise—who classify themselves as ND Men— Class of 1944. Do you realize that some of the Class officers—^area vice presidents to be exact— have not written one line nor have they bothered to return the questionnaires sent out two years ago? There are a few—very few—who are to be commended for their splendid cooperation. To them, a most grateful and sincere thank you! 
JOE G.ALL probably is the only '44er left in New Hampshire now that CLEM CONSTANTINE moved to Houston about the first of this year. \ ^ this column, Joe sends greetings to BILL WALDRON. GENE SLEVIN, BOB THUM.M and ED DOWLING. He looks forward to seeing these men at the Silver Jubilee Reunion in '69. Joe's oldest son recently received a principal ap­pointment to West Point and will be entering there in midsummer. His second son, a sopho­more, hopes to attend ND two years hence. 
BILL BRADY, Bellwood, 111. has not been back to the Campus for a few years but is making definite plans for the big 25th. He has four children ranging from a kindergartener to a col­lege sophomore. Bill frequently sees Chicago area '44ers. 
TOM ROLFS seeks four Packer season tickets between the **thirties," his annual request. He really b a dreamer. Tom thinks young but with limitations because last winter he joined **Die Alten Herren," a new group formed in Aspen for men over 40. They'll meet again in late January, 1968. On a recent West Coast trip, Tom 
1944 
LaCrossc and spends summer vacations in the 
Spooncr,. Wis. muskie country. 
BILL WALDRON wrote that, since his son is 
a ND student, Ann and he make annual pil­
grimages to the Campus, attending the Httsburgh 
game last fall and planning on the Michigan 
State one this October. Who isn't? On last 
year's trip he saw JIM MEAGHER. Recently he 
had a visit with Rev. JOE GALLAGHER who, 
like many '44ers, is looking forward to the 25th 
Reunion. 
JOSEPH A. NEUFELD P.O. Box 853, Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
"BLACK JOHN" MURPHY penned a note during a sojourn at St. Francb Hospital wlierc he was undergoing a long overdue checkup. His report was A-OK. Not long ago, he had a great visit with his ex-roomie JIM LLOYD, Grand Rapids, &flch. who was in the East on business. He also had the opportunity to see JACK WHITELY at a CYO Ball. "Black John" feels that top management posts agree with both men. He accuses DAN CASEY of keeping JOHN DUFFY, JACK KELLY, BILL O'CONNOR. ROCKY SULLIVAN, BILL O'BRIEN, ED DOWLING and himself from getting together. Perhaps that can be corrected before '69. 
John feels, and your secretary heartily agrees, that groundwork should be laid now for the Silver Jubilee Reunion less than two years hence.. Anyone ha\ing suggestions should forward them to TOM ROLFS or "BLACK JOHN" MURPHY, coKrhairmen for the event. It is none too early to plan. To "RISE AND SHINE IN '69" needs more meaning than just that simple rhyme. 
REUNION REGISTRANT: Julian Nichol. 
Timothy, I express the sincere condolences of Harry's classmates and assure them he will always be remembered in our prayers. The R>'ans live at 501 Mortimer St., Sturgis, Mich. 49091. On hearing of Harry's untimely passing, HARRY WALTERS wtote us a short note and I will quote it for I feel it echoes all of our thoughts of the great Harry: 
"As we grow older and as the problems of our particular state in life increase, we all look back with fond memories of our days at ND. In ad­dition to the wonderful memories of spring days spent on the Campus of Our Lady, we all have recollections of the friendships and fun which tcmk place in the halls. It was here, of course, that Harry Ryan plays a big part in all of our memories. 
"I have many recollections of pugnacious Harry in a feigned fighting pose with ELMER ANGS­MAN and of Harry and JOHN "TREE" ADAMS starting off down the path from Sorin Hall for a night at the DAV. Harry would be walking with a jaunty air in a Chesterfield coat and homburg. 
'*I had the occasion at our 20th Reunion in '65 to meet. Harry's wife and family. BOB ROSSITER arid I tagged along on a tour of the Campus and Harry took great pleasure in pointing out to tus three big sons the log chapel where he and his Dolores were married in January '49. 
"Our pal Harry is gone to his reward. But I am sure that he will live in the memories of his many friends, at ND as a real part of our youth and as a good ND Man." 
May he rest in peace. 
FRANK M. LINEMAN G.E. Co., P.O. Box 5000 Binghamfon, N.Y. 13902 
saw DON D.WIS who is western manager of all 
J. C. Penney Co. credit operations with head­Each issue we try to quarters in San Francisco. cover items on many 
Bro. ARMEL LATTERELL CSC completed his classmates. However, first year on the staff of Bishop Hendrickson HS, for this issue we'll 

1945 1946 
Warwick, R.L Previously he had been on the cover only one—with­faculty of Mackin HS in Washington, DC. out a doub^ the most popular member of our 

PETER P. RICHISKI JIM PADESKY classifies himself as a '44er Class. 60 Robin Place, Old Greenwich, c\*en though the Campus records list him as a We were deeply grie\'ed when we learned of 
Conn. 06870 
member of the '47 Class. Jim sells Ford products HARRY RYAN'S death May 4. To his wife. 
in Molinc, occasionally visits his hometown of Dolores, and three sons, Michad, Danid and 
KEUNION REGISTRANT: Philip Edward]. 
 it was a grand weekend! Although we lacked quantity at 


1947 Gee, 
our 2t)-year get-together, we were 

strong on quality and our exclusive klatsches were con­
genial and correctly convivial. BUT WHERE WERE YOU? It was reassuring to welcome such virtual regulars 
as DON FISHER, the travel tycoon from Motown (once known as Detroit); a half-ton of happiness from Cook County, 111. in four components named BOB GORSKI, BOB KELLY, BOB WHITE and JIM (?!) ATKINSON; Kentucky's King of Kountry Music, BUD WILLENBRINK, who didn't need his guitar to achieve syncopation (that's defined as "an irregular movement from bar to bar"); and, of course, the University's affable ampHfier of academic achievements, JIM MURPHY. 
BUT WHERE WERE YOU? 

From the East came the three latter-day Wise Men, DITTRICH, KOEGLER and DILLON; the King's man from Wilkes-Barre, JIM SHEA, once a brother and now the father of three; JOHN KELLY, the gentle G-Man; DICK MARTINEK, the brawny Buckeye, and Bouncing BILLY HASSETT, one of the nonmisbehaving boys from Syracuse. 
BUT WHERE WERE YOU? The twin cities of St. Joseph and Benton Harbor, Mich, yielded for the duration an urbane duo, JAMES DEAN OWEN and DON McGRATH; the land of Lincoln (Nebraska, i.e.), JOHN BEAU (nee Beau­rivage), stylish in russet jump suit and — when more formally attired — a snappy (what else?) Beau tie; the land of sky-blue waters (Manitowoc, Wis.), TOM NIQUETTE, who condescended to slum with Drewry's. SO \VHERE WERE YOU? The Hoosier delegation included two capital gentle­
•men, JOHN WELCH and n"ust - two - years - married 
)E QUILL; LAMAR '(LANNY) GOHN, all the 'way from Middlebury, 25 
miles east; JIM McCLIN-TOCK, teacher at Central Catholic HS in Fort Wayne; and two more from South 

Bend, perambulatin' PETE RUCANO and N£) swim­
ming coach DENNIS STARK. 
AND WHERE WERE YOU? 
In a class by himself, though proudly in ouis, was 
LUIS BELTRANENA, well-grounded on coffee per­
culations in his native Guatemala and elsewhere in the 
hemisphere. 

FROM GUATEMALA ALREADY .. . SO 
WHERE WERE YOm • 
Memorable moments include observations on toda/s^ N D at Friday night dumer by Rev. JOE FEY CSC, superior at St. Joseph Hall and member of the pio^' vincial board; our own CHUCK PATTERSON, one of the directors of the Alumni Assoc, and JOHNNY DEE, optimistic seeker after the national title for his hardwood Irish . . . the Friday night bonfire by which we converted the Muhammed Ali Mosque back to Morrissey Hall chapel . . . the Class Mass, celebrated for our deceased classmates by Father Fey . . . the same cleric turning the Kelly boys, Hassett, Murphy and. Patterson loose to prepare breakfast in the St. Joe Hall kitchen . . . marching en masse to Saturday night din­ner . . . paying fitting tribute to the Falstaffiah l^end, JIM ARMSTRONG, a Valhallava giant in the ND galaxy . . . saying hasta la vista to a great group of friends. 
WHERE WERE YOU? 
Thanks to the men of '47 for the inscribed Golden Dome plaque; it was thoughtful, a siuprise and Til treasure it always. 
Stung by our minority status, even vis-a-vis the Class of '17, we resolved to promote a solid showing in 1972 when we are the Silver Anniversay Honor Class. On a platform of systematic progress to that end. Bill Hassett was chosen class pres. and Don Fisher VP. Treasurer JOE SHARP and your secretary were re­elected. 
We intend to hit it big in '72. 
WHERE WILL YOU BE? 
—JACK MILES REUNION REGISTRANTS: James Atkinson, John Beanrivage, Lms Beltranena, Harry Broivn, John C. Dillon, Jos. Dittrich, Rev. Joseph Fey CSC, Donald W. Fisher, Lamar Gohn, Robert Gotski, Wm. Hassett, Robert Kelly, John Kelly, Charles Koeglar, James McClintock, Richard \Iartinek, Donald McGrath, John Miles, James Murphy, Thos. Niquettc, James Owen, Chas. Patterson, Peter Rucano, James Shea, Robert White, Jos. WUlenbrink Jr. 
With the edition of the ALUMNUS that in­cluded yellow reply cards, things have 
1948 
picked up. We re­ceived three cards from fellow classmates! That is something like .003 of the potential; but it is 
ALUMNI t IN THE 


Congrats

NEWS 
Gerald A. Hickey '41 was advanced from president to board chairman and treasurer of Thomas L. Hickey, Inc., South Bend contracting and engineering firm. His broth­er, Joseph t Hickey '50, \N'ill succeed him as president The realignment of the top ex­ecutives in the firm followed the death in December of Thomas L. EKckey, father of Jerry and Joe. Jerry, recipient of the 1952 Young Man of the Year award from the South Bend Jaycees, is a director of the In­diana Association of General Contractors. Joe is immediate president of the Gteneral Building Contractors Association and is chairman for urban renewal on the Mayor's Committee for United Civic Progress. 
Martin L Inswersen '41 has been elected president and chief operating officer of the Maryland Shipbuilding & Drydock Co. in Baltimore. He had previous executive pwsi­tions with three other shipbuilding concerns and was a Navy lieutenant conunander in WWII. 
Zane J. Sandom '43 has been appointed vice-president— Europe, Middle East & Africa for the credit card division of the American Express Co. A veteran of 20 years' exper­ience with AEC, he has held a number of executive positions in Europe including that of \'ice-president in Italy. He has also filled assignments in Paris, Heidelberg and Lon­don, where he will now make his headquar­ters. 
Carl R. Ericbon '47 moved up through the ranks from a company trainee post to be­come senior vice-president of Dayton's Mer­chandise. His promotion was part of the company's expansion program which has seen the Dayton company grow from a Mid­west family-o\sfned department store business into a national publicly owned firm wth sev­eral interests. The Ericksons and their three children live in Wayzata, Minn. 
George H. Bums '48 is now assistant comp­troller of P. Lorillard Co. Formerly chief accountant-international for the tobacco firm. Bums will continue to have responsibility in accounting and financial aspects of Loril­lard's overseas operations. The Bums family resides in Old Greenwich, Conn. 
an improvement. 
JOHN "BABE" MURPHY writes to us from Richmond Heights, Mo. that he is parts and accessory area mgr. for the Chevrolet Div. of GM. He and his vnie have four children and are alu-ays anxious to hear from anyone willing to write to them at 1516 Yale Ave. 
DICK KASBERG who started with many of us in the Class of *48 back in *42 is now living in Columbus where he is in the claims Dept. of the Ohio Casualty Insurance Co. Dick is the first to say that he is planning to attend the 20th Re­union. The Kasbcrgs are a family of eight, with four boys and tHt> girls, and he is glad to hear that TOM HERBERT is rallying to catch up. 
GENE DEAN, the legal beagle for American Cyanamid, has run into some of the Class of M8 in his travels. He met BOB FLANNERY in Cindnnati where Bob is mgr. of sales training for Formica, a Cyanamid subsidiary. He has also seen JIM BURKE, JIM SLATTERY and BILL GOMPERS who is in Pittsburgh with Mine Safety Appliance Co. 
Gene recommends the "REAL" JOE WILCOX as our Class Reunion chairman since he is close by in Michigan. All we need is someone to second the motion—how about it, Joe? Gene says he would like to hear from any of the old athletes like **COKSY" CLATT, JOHN CREEVY, ZIGGY CZAROBSKI. LEON HART, FRANK TRIPUCKA, etc.—and any other numeral win­ners from the original Class of 1946. 
Via changc-of-addrcss notiBcation we hear that JOHN HAFF has moved from Seattle to San Francisco and that BOB McEVOY has disap­peared from Oak Park as his mail comes back ''unclaimed.'* 
GORDON McKINNEY recently received the President's A^'ard at Mcad-Jolinson for his con­tributions to the company's progress. BOB NIN­NEMAN is now an exec, ass't. at the North­western Mutual Life Insurance Co. JACK Mc-GR.ATH has been elected exec. VP of tiic Fuels Research Council, Inc. 
A lengthy letter from TOM HIGGINS out of Detroit advises that the entire Higgins clan is moving permanently to Coral Gables, Fla. While planning his move, he visited the Sunshine State 
GEORGE J. KEENAN 
177 Rolling Hills Rd., 
Clifton, N.J, 07013 
and heard that GEORGE "LITTLE BRUISER" KENNARD is still in the Miami area along with MIKE GRAY. In Pompano Beach he reached his old roommate LARRY RICCI who figured that this was Tom's way of getting to sec the Miami-ND game next fall, but on a rather expensive basis. 
In Detroit he has seen LOU SINGER and PAUL HUSSAR and also CHARLES "RIP" DeGALAN who is with GE*s Computer Div. 
Tom brings up a good point. He feels one reason wc don't get more news is nobody sees anybody an>-morc and perhaps at our next Re­union we should try to get some "togetherness" promoted and be interested in one another—more so than we seem to be presently. Tom agrees to handle the arrangements for any Class get-together in Miami this fall where he will be located at 1032 Sorolla Ave. in Coral Gables. 
PAUL COREY sent me a lot of material along with a photograph from the Freshman Da>-s. In the picture he is able to identify NEIL KELLY, LEO MURPHY (now trainer for the Cleveland Bro%vns), JOE YONTO and HARRY GOHEEN who was the honored guest in the photo as he was leaving for the Service. 
Since lea\-ing ND, Paul has been involved in many, many endeavors and successful accomplish­ments. Presently, he is personnel mgr. for 600 county employees and liaison for all other county employees in personnel matters in the Cleveland area. Paul has taught at Thomas A. Edison HS, Newton Baker Jr. HS and John Marshall HS. He has done graduate work at Western Reserve U and was pres. and executive sec. of the Cleveland Teachers Union from 1956 to 1961. 
Being the "Voice" of the Class of 1948, wc look forward to hearing from members of the Class. We do find ourselves also on the mailing list for all kinds of mailings from other places 
ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 
called Notre Dame all over the world (because 
of the exposure through the ALUMNUS). I have 
always been knowli as "Generous George" among 
other things; but right now I find that all the 
deductible contributions I can give exceed my 
net income so I have had to draw the line. 
After the Keenan Foundation^ all others come 
next. 
Based on the material I have received as a 
sample of the kind of preparation for a Class 
Reunion, there is some work ahead and you'll 
be hearing about it. Meanwhile we would like 
to hear from you with any special ideas you 
might have in this area and also any help you 
can offer toward making it an all-out success. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS: Joe F. Qmll. John Welch. 
1949 
LEO I. WESLEY 155 Driftwood Lane, Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
REUNION REGISTRANT: Bob Strode. 
I hope you are all enjoying with >*our families a good sum« mcr. 
1950 
I had a report that 
JOHN R. MENDENHALL has been appointed 
dir. of taxes of Arthur Andersen and Co. 69 W. 
Washington St,, Chicago. Upon graduation from 
Harvard Law School in 1953, John joined the 
Cleveland office of Arthur Andersen, a large 
international CPA firm. He recently transferred 
from Cleveland to the home office in Chicago. 
As dir. of taxes, he is a partner in charge of the 
tax div. for the entire firm. 
A nice note from JACK ARGUE, Pittsfield, 
N.H. stated that he and his wife, Mary EIHott (Peck of South Bend and SMC), have been in 
^t ^"^^ B^H ^M Apologies to anyone who 
^M K M E^ ^m looked for us at the Old-
I ^^ ^^ ^ • Timers Game. We ex-
I ^^^F ^^^F I pcctcd the game to start 
at 1:30 and that it would be taped for later showing on ABC's "Wide World of Sports'* as was done last year. But this year it was live at 4 pm. Therefore, we decided not to return to Chicago with our brood in the middle of the night and, thus, gave up the pleasure of attending in person. We hope for better programming next year. 
Congratulations to PHIL FACCENDA on his appointment as special asst. to Father Hesburgh. Phil has probably decided thb is the best route to insure that little Phil will be enrolled as a freshman in 17 years. 
At least this will give JIM FRICK someone with whom to share the parental pressures in two or three years. You all know that Jim is VP for public relations and development at the University, one of the first laymen whose abilities have been thus recognized. Jim and Bonita have five children whose ages range from 15 to 11. They arc Michael, Terence, Thomas, Theresa and Kathleen. Jim has already demonstrated his perspicacity and we would not be surprised if in two years the administration named a new director of admissions from our Class. This would take all the pressure off Jim and Phil and put it on one poor soul when our first crop of children applies for admission under the early decision program. 
We were all set for an avalanche of yellow cards but received only two. JIM KITTELL writes from 6902 Dorothy Loube Dr., San Antonio, Texas 78220 that he has left coaching after 12 years. He is now vice-principal of Brackcnridgc HS which has 2,000 students. Jim and his wife have two girls, IVit, 12, and Laura, 
11. Jim also has assumed command of the 34th Acromcdical Evacuation Squadron (Reserve) at Kelly AFB. This summer, with their 13 crews on 15 da>-s of active duty, they will evacuate patients from the Far East to the US. 
Jim asked for the whereabouts of ED SMITH, also a BS graduate of 1951. Wc checked through our geographical roster but cannot find the whereabouts of EDWARD JAMES SMITH of our Class. If anyone knows his present address, please drop a note to Jim Kittell in San Antonio. 
GEORGE GARDEN sent the other yellow card New Hampshire the past 12 years with eight 
children and number nine expected last June. 
They do not see classmates too frequently. He 
practices medicine in Pittsfield and his brother. 
Bill '51, practices dentistry in Manchester. 
"JUNGLE JIM" MARTIN has agned as 
defensive line coach of the Detroit laons. 
Dr. FRANK R. STERMITZ wUI join Colorado 
State U. this fall as an Assoc, prof, of chem. 
GEORGE SEEGER has been appointed mgr. of 
long-range planning at the Bendix Corp.'s Blisnle 
Systems Div. 
ROBERT CANNON joined the Broome County, 
(NY) Chamber of Commerce as mgr. of the 
Industrial Development Dept. 
HENRY ROBERTS has been promoted to 
research associate in the analytical and radio 
pharmaceuticals section of the Squibb Institute for 
Medical Research. 
JOE HICKEY was elected pres. of Thomas 
L. Hickey, Inc., South Bend contracting and engineering firm. 
ROLAND KELLY was elected pics, of the Indiana AP Radio-TV Assoc 
JOHN W. THORNTON 4400 Monserrate St., Coral Gables, Ra. 33146 
Dr. FRANK RTTTER was awarded the 
'*Shovel" Award by the U. of Jkfichigan Society 
for being the most helpful and understanding to 
the students. A paper he wrote won a national 
award. 
May 4-6 I was honored to be among the 
members of the new ND Alumni Senate. On 
my way through Chicago, I had a nice visit with 
ED KELLY. I had a nice talk with Marge and 
TOM O'GRADY, living in Chicago Heights, 
And who should I run into in 0*Hare Airport 
but LOU LOURO talking to his wife, Dody, 
in the telephone exchange area. He has &Iark, 
15, Christine, 14, and Matthew, 11. He is 
operating the Leadership Techniques Institute at 
6(X) S. Afichigan Ave. Its trade name is "Sales­
manship.'' He has a public and company opera­
from Rye, NY where he has been living with 
his wife, Marie, and their four children for the 
last two years. The children are Bob, 13, 
Maureen, 10, Steve, 7, and Virginia, 4. This 
year George started as marketing mgr. for 
Nicholas Laboratories, Ltd. in the US and 
Canada. This is an English-based, world-wide 
pharmaceutical company, and George is under­
taking to set up its US subsidiary. 
KEN THOREN says it was not the genera] deterioration of the neighborhood caused by George moving in which encouraged him to leave Rye and move to Greenwich, where his address is 16 Mansion Place, Greenwich, Conneticut 06833. Ken and Piit have four children: Mary Pat, 9, Peter, 7, Kate, 6, and Kristopher, 4. Ken is still with J. Walter Thompson as TV-group head for the Kodak account. Maybe you have seen the "Sunrise-Sunset'' commercial, which Ken dreamed up. This commercial has won just about every award presently given for this art form in this country and abroad. 
JAMES JENNINGS Borg-Warner Corp., 200 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III. 60604 
TOM BOLAND telephoned bst week when he was in town. He is in the St. Louis district office of Ford and lives at 95 Saint Edward Lane, Florissant, Mo. 63033. Tom and Mary Jo have three children: Kathy, 13, Mike, 6, and Mary Sue, 
3. We will look for each other at the Illinois game in Champaign this year. 
Received an heir male card from &fuff, wife of JIM BENBOW. They Uve at 7 Fairway Drive in Galcsburg, III. This last boy, bom April 11 of this year, joins two brothers aged 8 and 10, and they have two sisters, 12 and 14. Jim is a contractor in the plumbing, heating and air conditioning business and is still active as a It. commander in the Naval Reserve. The Ben-bows plan to attend the Michigan State game and the Reunion afterward and we hope many more will make the same effort. 
Our medical bulletin includes the good news that Mary Jean, wife of JOE RIGALI, has recovered from the hepatitis and Joe can again resume the philosophy seminars. JACK BECKER has also missed several seminars because of tion of dbuMs mth five mstmcton to a tbm oC 30 men, for nine weeks, traiiuns salesmeB- ia aU areas of insoiance, seOii^ skilb, gnaruiteed tele­irfwne techniques, do^og systems, objectioa handling, word pkturii^ and reifenal praq^ectiiis. He looks as fine as ever and told me that TOM WITHERS is practicing law at 1 N. taSalle St. FRANK CASURELLA is with the CUcago Title ft Trust Co. and WALT MURFHY, now the head of political sdence at Princeton, Ins had his second hook pofalishcd. 
I had a nice letter from BOB LALLY who was pleased to see TOM FAGGAU (Avon, CMiio} at the Qeveland UN D Night. Bob is operating the Norton Brothers Co. The letterhead indScatfs a roofing buuncss. We arc happy io see oar tiger linebacker with the skinned nose (now WCH healed) doii^ so well and seDii^ enoc^sh roofing to have a happy dinner with 15 youngsters around the table every n^ht. 
ART OWENS writes from Inifianapolis that he 
and Jeri (Bushell) had thdr seventh daxq^ter, 
Ellen Margaret. They have one boy. Sponsors 
at the latest baptism were RAY HOLDEN '49 
and his wife Susan from South Haven, Mich. 
Art is currently mgr. of medical rombursement 
for Blue Cross. He recdved his master's xa 
hospital administration from the U. of Iowa xa 
1963. 
A nice yeBow card from RON CAMPBELL, 
Belmore, NY. Last May he departed for Kua­
guay for the J. G. White Eng. Corp. to <firect 
the preparation of plans for water supply facilities 
for seven cities there. He'U be gone about s z 
months. He and his wife and thdr nine children 
invite aU of their ND friends to join them in the 
rosary for the success of this project. 
JACK SANFORD now resides at SCB^th Ave., 
A^ury fork, NJ. Our prayers to Jack and his 
family for the loss of his Either, a true N D 
subway alumnL 
JOE SCHIEDLER married Ann Crowley in 
September, 1965, has a son, Eric, and is reading 
at 6310 N. Kenmorc Ave., Clucago. Joe is 
working with Mayor Daley's Commission on Youth 
Welfare in Chicago. Joe has been teaching the 
last few years at Mundclein. 
Donna's back trouble. She deUvered thor seventh 
child. Amy Maureen, Afarcfa 24 and was taken 
dirccdy Smm the ddivery room into traction 
where she remained for 12 days. That failed and 
surgery vras performed with pieces of bone trom 
the hip bdng used to mend about four inches 
of the spine, which was then fused. At least 
Donna is able to hc^ble around a liitde bit now 
and is recoverii^ %trell. 
Congratulations are also in order for BERNIE LAVINS who recently became works mgr. for Ixesona in Warwick, RI. Berme with his wife Kathy and their family live at 47 Great Bend, East Greenwich, RI 02818. Their six children range in age from 12 years to 1 and they include Beth, Bemie J. Jr., Katie, Clancy, Mary and Thomas Aquinas. That last guy should be smart enough to get into ND without any help from our classmates in the administration. 
Talked to JOE CHANIGA who is now a senior project engineer with the AC Spark FItq( Div. of GM in Milwaukee. Joe and Dorothy have been married for 11 years and they live at 1(X)9 Lombard, in Racine. They have rix children with the ages ranging from 10 to 2. The children are Elizabeth, Cathy, Tom, John, Ann Bridget and Mary. 
We talked to FRED BRICE who just recdved the minor orders of lector and porter from Cardinal Cushing. Fred is halfway through the four years and teUs us he is now empowered to bless bread and first fruits. That bread is fattening but we win dance on the first few grapes so that Fred can bless them when he comes to Chicago this summer. 
Now for a personal plug. Our nx-year«ld, Patrick Michael, b scheduled for open heart surgery within the next five months and we solidt your prayers. We realize how fntunate vrc are because in taDung to our classmates it is a ^ parent that phyrical, financial and emotional problems are not unknown amoi^ the brethren. Therefore, I mge all of us and our families to pray for one another daily if posnble. 
After all, the bond wc have together in the Mystical Body is much deeper and more endtning than the rather tranritory association of 16-^ years ago. Let*s try to make this effort cither at night or in the commemoration of the living in the canon of the Mass each day and see if we cannot help and draw closer to one another at the same time. 

ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 
The 15th Reunion of the Class of 1952 is now a pleasant memory. 

1952 
For those who were able to re­

side in the hallowed halls of Dillon, the hours were entertaining and nostalgic. Old friendships were quickly renewed and the more serious aspects of the weekend were attended to immediately — namely the consuming of barrels of Drewry's best. The last report was 38 and counting. 1 guess that statistic is really not too impressive when you consider that BOB KIRCH­GESSNER, BILL SANTINI, PAT NEVILLE, TONY CRITELLI (whatever happened to TOM FOLEY?) and TOM CHISOLM were in attendance. They could handle 38 barrels themselves. 
The Class Dinner Friday was a quiet and intimate affair. The camaraderie of the occasion was put to a test during the election of officers. There was a vocal group from the Iowa delegation that felt the ticket did not have proper nationalistic representation. There were two demonstrations but the party ticket was suc­cessfully rammed through by the departing pres. The new officers who will serve for the next five years are: Pres. BILL WHITE (next time maybe you'll show up Bill), VP JIM PO\VERS (one of Jim's campaign promises was Straw Hats for all in attendance at our 20di in 1972), Sec. BILL KING (Will the real HARRY BUCH please stand up?) and Treas. JACK MUEL­LER (Don't sit so close to the dais next time, Jack). 
Another highlight of the dinner was the traditional 

"Ugliest Man on Campus Award." There were several 
outstanding candidates but the three finalists were all 
wmners in their own right: JACK CUNNINGHAM 
(formerly the class of the field — but now a httle over 
the hill), JOE STANICHAK (I still can't beUeve he 
lost) and JIM BARTLETT. The popular ^vinner was 
"Ugly Jim Bartlett." Don't get too cocky, Jim, a lot 
can happen in the next five years. 
The highlight of tlie weekend for our Class was the concelebration of a Memorial Mass for all deceased members of the Class of 1952. This was at Dillon Hall Saturday. The concelebrants were all our o\vn: Fathers BILL TOOHEY, HERMAN PORTER, ART PERRY and TOM KIRBY. The homily ^vas given by Father JOHN SQUILLER, also a member of our Class. 
In retrospect, these three days reminded us again of the close ties we have ^vith this great University. For those who could not be with us, just a word: Your University continues to grow, particularly in academic achievement. It truly has taken its position as one of the leading institutions of higher learning in this country. 
One final word. We want to thank Harry Buch for serving as Class sec. for the last several years. Your new sec.. Bill King, is most anxious to hear from you. Please fill his mailbox at 613 E. Donmoyer, South Bend, Ind. 46614. —HANK McCORMACK 
REUNION REGISnUNTS: Alton Adams, A. Jos. Adams, Henry Balling, Fred Banicki, James Bartlett, Earl Bcauchamp, Donald Bebenek, Wm. Beargic, T. J. Bennett, Jos. A, Blount, Byron Boji, Harry Bomhofcn, Jos. Bowling, John I. Bradshaw Jr., George Brown, John Bush, Jos. Byrne, Dominic Calacci, John Charanne, Thos. Chisholm, Charles L. Christen, Richard Clancy, Robert Coryn, Jos. Costello, Anthony Critelli, PatricI: Crou-e, Edu-ard D'.Arcy, Robert L. Dawdson, Dennis DeJancy, Patrick Doherty, Leo J. Dondanville, Richard Donovan, Charles Doolcy, Thomas Durand, Robert Epping, James Etling, Charles Falkcnberg, John Fanner, Harry M. Foster, John Furin, Richard Gaeckle, Norbert Ganobsik, Wm. F. Gcis, Eugene Gcr^ve, August R. Gildncr, Robert K, 
They came in from all four comers. From AL ADAMS of the Vii ^ Islands to LEO ZMUDZINSKI from South Bend. The greatest traveler of them all was JAIME IBANEZ, who flew in from Lima, Peru to enjoy a weekend of fun and laughs with his old classmates. On arriving at the Campus, we registered in the Center for Continuing Education. After regis­tration, we were bused to Dillon Hall where the cele­bration was in full swing. Old times were fondly re­called while beverages were consumed in volume. Be­fore sk o'clock Friday, JIM POWERS had made at least 14 changes of clothes — all bizarre. 
Friday evening we were led to the North Dining 
HaU by our able Pres. HANK McCORMACK for 
more get-togethers and stories. Then back to Dillon 
Hall where we noticed our "classmates of the cloth" 
are getting younger and younger. Fr. ART PERRY 
glistened along with Fr. BILL TOOHEY. 
Saturday was left for Class Pictures for those who 
were punctual. Tours of the ever-changing campus 
were made and, of course, a trip to the Bookstore for 
souvenirs. Satmrday afternoon saw a small Indiana 
monsoon fail to dampen the joy seekers. Saturday nite 
the whole Class marched to the North Dining Hall for 
a wonderful Alunmi Banquet which served as a glowing 
tribute to Mr. Alumnus himself, JAMES E. ARM­
STRONG, who is retiring after 41 years as exec. sec. 
of the Alumni Assoc. It was a tremendous night for 
Jim and for every ND man there. 
From the banquet we managed to find our way to the Grotto. It was a beautiful night and a beautiful scene. JOHN CHAVANNE, minus his seven daugh­ters, was kneeling in prayer. Saturday night saw PAT "BOSS" NEVILLE at his greatest, telling stories around his captive audience. BILL SANTINI opened up his o\vn radio station in Dillon and gave us a blow-by-blow description of all records set during the two days. 
Sunday morning saw Mass and a melancholy mo­ment as we realized that 21 of our classmates are de­ceased. It Tivas difficult to say good-bye but five years will see us all back again, hopefully. A special thanks goes to BOB KING for the terrific preparations that went into making the Reunion the success it was. To those who couldn't make it, let us hear from you. To those who did, memories •will linger long. 
— WM. B. "BILL" KING 

Gordon, Wm. Gorman, John Guise, Jos. Guide, Dr. George M. Haley, Francis Hamilton, Robert Haimon, Robert Hossc, Patrick Hawley, George Heidkamp, Jaime Ibanez, Gerard Jirka, Robert Kcnncy, Robert 
H. King, Wm. King, Rev. Thomas Kirby, Robert Kirchgcssner, Gerald Klee, Roland Kohlbeck, John Laboe, Dr. Charles Linscnmcycr, Henry McCormack, Lawrence McDonnell, John F. McGlinn, James ^IcLean, AVm. Martin, Jack Iklayl, James W. Moore, Ncal Moore, John P. Moran, Joseph A. Moriaity, John Mueller, Donald T. MuIIaney, J. Wm. Murphy, Don Murray, John Neis, Daniel Nespo, Patrick Neville, Richard Xovitsky, Joseph O'Brien, John O'Neill, Edmund Orr, Wm. Osborne, Charles Paquette, Rev. Arthur Perry, Sandy Perry, Robert R. Piha, John K. Plouff, John Pollock, Rev. Herman A. Porter, Rudolph Po\'se, James Powers, James Rauh^ Dr. James Reid, James G. Richeson, Eugene Rilcy, Francis Rfiche, Robert Rubcry, Wm. Ryan, William A. Santini Jr., Anthony J. Schmidt, Charles Schacffer, Francis Semetko, Dr. Harry Siemonsma, Kevin Smith, Rev. John Squiiler, Jos, Stanichak, Lee Steidcn, Jos. Straub, Walter Sweeney, Rev. Wm. Toohey CSC, Robert Walsh, Richard Weiler, Hughes Wilcox, Robert Wray, Leo Zmudzinski. 
The last issue was full of news concerning the various class reunions. It doesn't seem possible 
1953 
but our I5th comes up next year! Work has already started on making ours a good one and you will be hearing more on this. 
I finally found a letter which I have been 
searching for since last December. Rev, GEORGE 
MAC INNES CSC sent a Christmas newsletter 
regarding our classmate Joe MAC INNES who died 
in the Uganda Mission Nov. 9. Joe had been 
working there three years as a member of the 
Society of Lay Mission Helpers from Los Angeles. 
I found his brother's description of Joe's work 
and death very moving: '*When I think of many 
people dying all over the world uselessly, and 
c\'en ineptly, I cannot help but be comforted by the 
kind of death God allowed my brother. If it was 
God's will that John die at this time, I know 
of no place he would have preferred than here 
in the Uganda Afission among those who knew 
him so well and where he had found his life's 
work. I know of no place where he could have 
been so well cared for in sickness and in death. 
Few of us here have ever seen a more peaceful or 
better-prepared death.*' 
JACK. MADDEN also used the yellow Class card as did quite a few of our Class: "I haven't done this for a long time so I thought I would bring you up to date. .After internship and pediatric residency in Chicago, I practiced pedi­atrics in a clinic in Champaign-Urbana, III. for five years. I left there in September to join the faculty at the U. of Chicago. Currently, I am dir. of the outpatient clinic in pediatrics and of the comprehensive care center. Married Arlene O'Brien in 1958 and we have five great kids. Hello to ever>-one." Thanks for the card. Jack. 
 can't think of anything clever to start this off with so I'll just start. Had 




1954 I 
lunch the other day 
with ED MADIGAN in Concord, Calif. Ed had 
just returned from the Derby at Louisville which 
he enjoyed with WALT WAG.XER and GENE 
HOWLEY. Before I left Sunny California Ed 
drove me to the intersection of Knutc Rockne and 
Notre Dame Ave., the focal point of an area 
developed by Ed and his Dad. When I returned 
home I received a picture showing Ed, Gene and 
AValt with their arms linked, holding the first 
of many mint juleps. The fact that they didn't 
win didn't even slightly detract from the good 
time had by all. 
There's a star among us: RAY TILLEY has been seen on National TV on **Dating Game." I say a star because he was on twice; after losing the first time he was a winner on his second try. Another classmate who's had his name in all the papers and important magazines is JOHN K. GROSSPIETSCH. If you look closely on the credit card in recent Standard Oil ads you'll no­tice John. (It's his account.) 
HER.\f KRIEGSHAUSER was selected as St. 
Louis' ND Man of the Year at UND Night here. 
DICK COBB has joined Hicks & Griest, Inc., NY, as an account director and JOHN F. WAL­LACE has been promoted to a managerial post by US Steel. 
Had a sad note from CHRIS MALONE advis­ing of his Dad's death recently. Your prayers arc sincerely appreciated. All else is going wcU with Chris and Toni. Also learned of the death of DICK MURPHY' S Dad. Again your prayers are appreciated. 

ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 
His address: 814 Carnation Lane, Matteson, H L 
Let's close out this column with a great letter 
from JIM MALOOLY: 
"As you may recall, I had the misfortune to leave 
N D after my sophomore year at the special re­
quest of Unde Sam. I returned in '54 and gradu­
ated in the Class of '55. However, I have always 
had a personal attachment to the Class of '53 and 
returned to both the five- and ten-year class re­
unions of '58 and '63. God willing, I will be there 
in 1968. 
"I read with great interest your dramatic ^>­
peal in the ALUMNUS for more information and 
the good job done by "DOUBLE DOLLAR" JIM 
ROGERS in 5urvc)*iQg the Twin City area for you. 
"Here in the Chicagoland area, CHUCK 
STIMMING visited a mutual high school dasi* 
WAITER F. "BUD" STUHLDREHER 11006 Jean Rd. S.E., Huntsville, Ala. 35803 
mate of ouis in March and is back home s^ain in 
Indianapolis with AT&T after a two-year term of 
working in NYC and living in New Jersey. Chuck 
is in the process of revamping the accounting sys­
tem of AT&T ivhcn he has time between bridge 
tournaments. 
"Marilynn and I took a two-week viuratlon in 
Ft. Lauderdale in February and spent some t«ne 
with Jean and DON DORINI. Dorch is in busmess 
for himself and doing a bang-up job supplying 
Southern Florida with air conditioning equip­
ment. Wc had dinner in their lovely home in 
Plantation and reminisced about our weekend pic­
nics at Michigan City in the Hertz trucks. 
Saw JOE PAGLIARI and JIM CELANO at the 
UND Night in April. Both are successful mort­
JOE SPRINGER, 1652 N. Walnut St., Danville, 
111., is phys. cduc. teacher and golf coach at Dan­
ville Jr. Col. Joe's been married seven years and 
has two children, Joan, 6, and Britt, 3. (I'd like 
to drive up for a golf lesson, Joe so I can beat 
BOB WRIGHT thU Fall, OK?) Jane and BOB 
WRIGHT had number three in April. They were 
blessed with 6 lb. 15 or. Kathleen. 
Maryann and BOB CRESPY also had their 
third, a girl, Karen, in March in Washington, 
DC. It must be a big year for girls 'cause JIAI 
LOONAM reported the birth of his fourth girl 
(the Loomans arc 4-0) in May. She's christened 
Jamie. Jim is moving from Palo Alto to Minneap­
olis OS a result of a Midwest expansion of Costello 
& Co. Congrats to all you new parents. 
DICK CASTELLINI has finally given up his 4 a.m. jaunts with the fresh vegetables and is making good use of his hard-earned law degree as asst. solicitor for the city of Cincinnati. 
MILTON J. BEAUDINE 21 Signal Hill Blvd., E. St. Louis, 
III. 62203 
WALT BABCOCK reports his first job change as he is now personnel director for the county of Bergen, state of NJ. Before this Walt was with Avon Products, Inc., as employee relations super­visor. Florctte and Walt have two boys and two girls, and live at 284 Orchard Dr., Mahwah, NJ. 
JOHN POIRIER will be spending the summer with his wife and three boys at Stanfonl doing research on Stanford's new two<mile-long linear accelerator. 
Gail, writing for her husband JOHN SETTER, gage bankers livmg in Fttk Ridge. Joe has five 
children and is a partner of CBricn & Pain. Jtm, 
with four children, is a VP of Lake BUchisan 
Mortgage Co. 
"Also, JERRY O'CONNOR and his bride are 
now living in Wilmette and he u actnrely develop­
ing new apartment buildings in the sabnrfoan areas 
outnde Chicago. MARTY WEHNER is living in 
Hinsdale and a an aigineer for Westtnghouse 
Electric. DAVE McELVAIN is in the south sub­
urban area of Homewood and a rising executive 
with IBM. FRED TADROWSKI ts in Evergreen 
Park and is a busy man these days as a. chief 
appraiser for the State in highway condemnation 
proceedings. 
"Some of the other fellows that I see or hear 
from are my roommate &om my sophomore year, 
JIM GALLAGHER — now an asphalt-paving ty­
coon living in Flossmoor with Honey and his four 
daughters — and TERRY CAREY on LaSalle St. 
in charge of the municipal bond dept. for the 
Chicago Corporation. PAT MONTROY is doing 
a great job as secretary of the NO Club of Chi­
cago and is a sales rep. for MCA. 
"As for myself, we have a boy and two girls 
and are expecting number four during the first 
part of May. A few months ago J celebrated my 
10th anniversary with McKey & Poague, a Chicago 
firm speoalizing in real estate investments and 
commercial management, holding the o£Bce of 
secretary-treasurer." 
"&fOO," many thanks for that wonderful letter 
and I know I can count on you for the bridge 
tournament at our 15th. He can be reached at 
McKey & Poague, Inc., 1750 E. 71st St., Chica­
go 606«9. 
Keep the mail coming, gang! You're doing a 
sivell job so for this year. 
REUNION REGISTRANT; John Cunningham, 
reports that John is asst. prof, of medidne' at 
the Medical College of Virginia in Richmond. 
They have four children including three boys. 
She reports meeting Margaret and JERRY 
TOOMEY (three children) there. 
JIM BUCKENAfYER, Centerville, Ohio, reports 
seeing PAT FOLEY quite often. Jim is asst. prof, 
of management at U of Dayton. He's also treasur­
er of the Dayton ND Club. Jim and wife Sue 
have two boys and a girl. BOB GREEN is teach­
ing philosophy also at U. of Dayton. 
JIM DRESSER packed quite a bit of info on just one card. (Keep those cards and letters com­ing in. Folks.) Jim and Mary have five children and have moved from Kfassachusetts to Phoenix where he joined Nuclear Corp. of America as mgr. of metal products. Jim reports seeing JOHN SANDS and fat ED HOGAN outside Shea Stadi­um last fall and JOHN 0'HAR.A, BOB CRESPY and CHRIS COHAN at the So. Cal game. He also reports JOHN FALLON has moved to Chi­cago to join the Trane Co. Yes! Ail that on one little card. 
GEORGE HUBBARD (who's considering buying Illinois and maybe Indiana) is becoming the Ap­paloosa King of the Midwest. He, Mary Ann and their se\'en children live on their estate in Decatur when they're not at their lakeside cabin. 
For you guys, old before your time, I must in­dulge myself by reporting that last Sunday in the BcIIeWIIe church slow pitch softball league I hit a grand slam home run high over the left fielder's head. Ahh, Sweet Youth!!! I'd be happy to report any similar athletic accomplishments, so write, wTite, write. 
P.S. Congratulations to the Class of '54, number one at ND for percentage of Class contributing to the Foundation. 
55 

 the last col­active in the local chapter of CORE. STEVE SCHLENGER, GENE BRUN, FRANK umn I have become a NOTES FROM XJNCLE SAM: JERRY CRIBBS, BOB MALLON, FRED MAROON, PAT 
1955 
Since home oix'ner, and I HUGHES, 716 Pine Glen, Sekna, AU., recently McCANN and DICK LOFGREN. (So would I!) have the bruises and got lus major's bars. JACKIE LEE, also m msjor, The gals used the cards, too. DICK LANGE reduced bank balance is at 3042 March St., Bunker HiU AFB, Pern, had his lovely French wife Danielle, whom he 
to prove it. I joined the painters* and decorators* 
union the first tu-o weeks and it resembled a 
Marx Bros, comedy. Anyone knoiv how to get 
squirrels out of the attic??? 
Letter of the crj-cle award goes to Bro. PHILIP ARMSTRONG CSC, a teacher at St. John Secon­dary School in Sekondi, Ghana, W. Africa (P.O. Box 492). He reports that a team of ND gnids plus some Peace Corps recruits "has been taking the measure of the various Ghanaian service teams this winter and spring.** He adds that **the roughest back-alley halfcourt game in the states is tame com­pared with the wide open brand of hip and elbow throwing practiced here.** St. John's is operated by the brothers. 
A couple of the gals registered letters recently. JOHN CASEY and his wife Mary sent along a great birth announcement for Daniel Joseph, who arrived on March 8. It was in the form of a de­posit slip at Lincoln Rochester Trust Co., the financial institution that John controls (a little bit, at least). That's four now for the Caseys. 
PAUL FAZZONE*s lovely bride Sylvia took up the pen to say the breadirinncr has been a relay engineer with Pennsj'K-ania Power Co. since put­ting in his two years with the Navy. The Far-zones and their two children live at 326 E. Maitland Ln., New Castle, Pa. Paul bumped into LARRY DO\VNEY, his old roommate, whom be hada*t seen since 1959. 
Dr. JIM CANTRILL was too busy to hit the typewriter, but his beautiful wife Barbara did the honors. She reports the Cantrills now have five daughters and one son and they get their mail at 152 Strong Ave., Pittsfield, Mass. Jim has been named mgr. of advanced development at General Electric's polycarbonate R&D . Former­ly, he was chairman of the chem. depart, at Villa Madonna Col. in Covington, Ky., where he was 
Best wishes for a re­
laxing and rejuvenat­
ing summer, WILLIAM 
E. JACKMAN has 

1956 
been named Public Rdadons Dir. for the Machinery Dealers Na­tional Assoc in Washington, DC. 
MICHAEL F. CARR and PAUL L. KING have received the professional designation of Chartered Financial Analyst. FRANK CONTE, now with the Tranc Co. in Pittsburgh, and his wife welcomed their fourth child, Kathy, to the fold in ^lay. 
Capt. JOSEPH S. O'CONNOR wrote in early May and advised that his tour of duty Vfith the Army at Afadigan Gen. Hosp. in Tacoma, Wash. is proceeding in good fashion. Joe's wife Jaiie and children are now on the Coast with him and enjoying the scenic touring. 
BRAD BAILIE, JOE STOCKING and FRED LYONS were to be ordained in June as members of the Society of Jesus. They are classmates of ours who entered the seminary be­fore graduation and we wish them highly fruitful careers in the ministry of Christ. 
JERRY HIGGINS is in Watcrioo, Iowa and 15 serving as sec treas. of Jim Cordes Ford Co.» the largest retail outlet for Ford in Iowa. 
JIM KOLAS was in Buffalo May 4 and wsitcd with Ed and me. He was returning home after a bimness trip to Washington and New York City and had a similar stop in Buffalo. 
PHIL BOHNERT is now a faculty member of Baylor U. Medical School and associated with the dept. of psychiatry. Phil's family includes two daughters. 
DOUG COLE sent along a note in Afay and Ind. Capt. WALT CABRAL is back home, 965 N. Kalaheo Ave., Kailua, Hawaii. Lcdr JIM EHRET is with the Attack Squadron 122> NAS, LaDOorCt Calif. 
JOHN McCULLOUGH left WNDU to become a newscaster and producer for VTIMJ-TV in Mil­waukee. LES KEWLEY is a flight oflker for American Airlines. DICK O'DONNELL b gen. mgr. of the Boston office of Blair TV. JOE TONINI recently had two articles concerning the use of graphic calctdators in national trade mag­azines. FRANK TONINI has been promoted in the foreign service office at Caracas, Venezuela. 
PAUL FULLMER 1922 LarkdaleDr. Glenview, III. 60025 
JIM CAAIPBELL has been promoted to sapex* visor-industry marketing in Hooker Chemical CoTp*s industrial chemicals div. BOB HAIDING­ER, 5 Ridgewood Dr., Barrington, R.I., now is dtr. of administration for a div. of ITT. PAUL &IcALLISTER now is a salesman in the Syracuse office of Shell Oil. JIM WELTZIEN was promoted to systems engineering mgr. of IBM in Chicago. 
F. X. NEWMAN, who may be developing into a professional student [with his brain and grades, I would, too), has received a post-doctoral fellow­ship in the Humanities Center of Johns Hopkins. 
Much obliged to those who used the yellow cards to send in info. PAT KEARNS reports he is work­ing as a civil engineer with Boyle Engineering in Ventura, Calif., and hopes some of the old gsns %vill stop in at 1039 Cove to visit his brood of four. 
JOHN MANDC, 1917 Redleaf Dr., LouisviUe, is starting his sixth year with ^fotorola. John, who has two boys, would like to hear from guys like 
advises that JOHN &1EAGHER will become assoc prof, of English at St. Michael's in T<^ ronto. Doug, incidentally, is an assoc. prof, in the dept. of English with the "Old Blues'* of Yale. 
DICK NAVIN is teaching art at Pratt InsUtute and Brooklyn Col. in New York City. JIM KfcKEON is on Wall Street analyzing the bcmd market. 
JOHN BIRNEY received an MBA from the 
U. of Detroit and is now associated ninth LTV Aerospace Corp. in Detroit as a supernsor of engineering advanced planning. 
SIL RESCINITI's father, a loyal subway Alumnus, died March 29. Our prayerful sym­pathy is extended to Stl and his family. 
And last, but not least, ED COSGROVE has become engaged to Dorotlry Nicoaa of Buffalo. 
EUGENE O'CONNOR Cosgrove & O'Connor, 656 Ellicott Sq. BIdg., Buffolo, N.Y. 14203 
MORE '56 NEWS 
UND Night in Chicago brought forth a large contingent of '56 Alumni. JIM RYTIiKR got to­gether a table (as a member of the Chicago Club's board of directors he was under the gun) including such notables as DON CARLIN, BOB CURRANE, Fr. MIKE MOONEY, DICK CLARK, JIM REVORb and RAY DREXLER. 
Ray asked that the word be passed along that he and his wife are parents of a baby son. He is engaged in the practice of law on LaSalle St. in the Loop. 

met in Lorraine 10 years ago, handle the cor­respondence. They have five children and live at 8801 S. 84th Ave., Hickory Hills, lU. Dick is con­troUer for a firm oo the south side of Chicago. Lcdr JOHN HAMILTON was busy mth final exams, so his wife Barbara wrote to say he has earned his MA in bus. admin, from Harvard. They have three children and now arc located at Ships Parts Control Center, Naval Supply Depot, Mechanicsbui^, Pa. 
HERE ARE SOME NEW ADDRESSES FOR YOU: ROD CYRIER, 6176 Oregon St., Hobart, Ind.; ED KELLY, 4011 N. Meridian St., India-n^Mlis; TOM MARKO, 664 S. Fourth Ave., Morton, lU.; JOE HAGGERTY. 2132 Winnebago St., La Crosse, Wis.; DON DIXON, 281 Trow­bricfee. Elk Grove Village, lU; WALT KACZ­MAREK, 2338 Dawn Ct., Decatur, Ga.; JOE BAUMIE, 2941 Marathon, Orlando, Fla.; DICK 0*DONNELL, 22 Maurice Rd., Wellesley, Mass.; TIM SHEA, 831 S. Buchanan St., Arlington, Va.; HAL WILLENBORG, 331 Santa Rita, Modesto. Calif.; and JOHN HUGHES, 1543 VaUajo St., San Francisco. 
TOM CAREY mentioned that his old teammate PAUL REYNOLDS stopped in on his way back to his home in Alaska. My old roomie TOM DORWIN checked in again from San Francisco and made me sick by sa^nng that in early May the water skiing season had started ''so we're aU sunburned as of this weekend.'* 
NEAL HALLORAN and LOU BRIODY printed a schedule for MIKE KELLY and Chi­cago's "Organization *55.** After the MSU re­union Oct. 2B at South Bend, sessions are slated for Johnny Lattner's steak house in Chicago Nov. 21 and Jan. 16. Sec you then, especially if you have any ideas on how to get those squirrels out of my attic!! 
Joimng this writer in a faraway comer were CARL EIGELSBACH, JOHN O'GRADY and MAL BURNETT JR. John lives in Oak Park and is an engineer for Amphenol Corp.'s Broad­view plant. Mai and his mfe &fary have four children supported by his law practice with Hene­han, Donovan and Isaacson, Chicago. 
JACK C^EY is working with me in organizing quarterly Class dinners at Johnny Lattner's Steak House (where else?). Jack would appreciate your help and reservations. Phone them in to his law office: CE 6-5021. 
LUKE J. BRENNAN proudly announced the birth May 2 of Maureen who brings the Brennan family total to five. Luke also pleaded for some word about or from BILL LASCH. 
Rev. TOM CHAMBERS is doing research at Maryland U during the summer and will look forward to >nsiting some classmates In the DC area. 
THOMAS B. MCNEILL and his wife Ingrid had a nice visit with LEO UNBECK of Houston when he was traveling through Chicago. Leo and Connie are enjoying their five children while the McNeills enjoy three. Leo is constructing com­mercial buildings in Texas and parts of the eastern Midwest and Tom is finishing his fifth year of law practice. 
FRANK MCCARTHY called Tom recently to rq;iort on lus wife Pat and their three children and his new job in the general counsel's office for a bus assoc in Washington, DC. 
And heartiest congratulations to DICK ST. JOHN who was deservedly awarded the ND Man of the Year plaque by the ND Club of Spokane. 
— JOHNMANION 

It was a bash. Approximately 235 those in attendance accompanies this letter so I wU of our classmates showed for the attempt to relay sane information about those who 
1957 
BIG 10 and nobody regretted the could not attend and maybe some in»ghts into those sacrifice it may have entailed. We set quite a few rec­who did make the grand event ords with number of attendance and number of barrels Among those absentees who wanted to be there but consumed. Aroimd 1 a.m. Sunday morning it was couldn't were JACK CASEY, whose wife Joan pre­joyously annoimced that the Class of '57 had broken sented him with a fine baby boy... FRANK BANTON, the old beer guzzling record by emptying upwards of who is married and living in Manhattan teaching 
35 barrels. Only TOMMY O'BRIEN and CHARLIE English and history in a private high school in New O'CONNELL didn't get their share. The names of Jersey . . . GARY GATES, who married a free-lance 
DILLON HALL COURT Grounds for Expo '57 
writer in Manhattan . . . NICK SPAIN, father of five living in Golden, Colo, and teaching at The School of Mines. Nick is smart since he is living on 50 acres of land on the side of a moimtain and has no telephone; therefore, no collect calls from thoughtful classmates at 3 in the morning . . . JOHN SULLIVAN, who is an officer at Meadowbrook National Bank on Long Island . . , JOHN GORY, living in Teaneck, NJ and is a married research director at Merrill, Lynch. 
DEAN ADRIAN will become an assoc. prof, of dvil engineering at the U. of Mass. working in sanitary engineering. Before that he was acquiring his MS at Berkeley and PhD at Stanford. JIM HEALY is as­sociated with the Lincoln Job Corps Center in Lincoln, Neb. He is the dir. of curriculum development at the Center. FRANK PEDACE is Uving in San Diego where he is in the practice of dermatology. Also, he spent three years at Mayo Clinic specializing in this field. Frank is happily married with four li'l ones (he'd better be happy). 
BOB MORAN really wanted to be with us but Uncle Sam had other plans. Bob is presently floating around the Gulf of Tonkin as the general surgeon aboard the USS Hancock. While all this is going on, his wife and kids await hb return in Alameda, Calif. He is due to return in July and will be heading for Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. 
Another absentee and ex-Vietnam trooper is BURT LESH who is an asst. PMS with the Army ROTG Instructor Group at Lafayette Col. in Easton, Pa. NORMAN HEYING sent his regrets. He is living in Pittsburgh and is the corporate dir. of material services of Westinghouse. MARK MALEY was unable to attend but, with the birth of a new Maleyite jind his promo­tion to treas. of Monsanto Textile Div. (formerly Chem-strand), he was just unable to cut it Our big congrats, Mark, on your double victory. 

BOB SCANNELL has been named aaaoc dean for imde^tad resident nutruction in the college vi heaUb­and P£ at Pom State. MAURICE SARDI has been prtxnoted to the Westii^MUse dectmuc tube £v.-ak Elmiia, NY as product sales mgr. TOM McDONALD has been promoted to the post of Central dir. -mgr. for Sandoz Pharmaceuticals. JOSEPH YAEGER is a flight ofiBcer for American Airlines. Capt. ALBERT REICHERT has been deccHated with the USAF Com­mendation Medal at Los Angeles. PAUL HORNUNG will play the part of a lumbeijack m a movie called "The Devil's Brigade." 
DAVE JANIGIK is saaac electrical engineer vnA Allegheny Ludlum Sted in Kttsbur^ and he and his lovely wife Kathleen have two fine children with doe (10 lbs. 2 oz. at birdi) destined to be 'OJVRRY CON­JAR Jr." AL MALVICK is an assoc imtf. of dnl engineering at U. of Arizma. RON SABLES is patch-' ing up the Marines at Quantico, Va. He is the <nrth6­pedic surgeon. Ron saw FRANK KELLY who was on his way to Vietnam with the Army. 
It woidd be virtually imposable to detail the activi­ties of those who did atteaid the Reunion. Memory and space avsulable prevent this.. But it is good to know that MIKE STOREN is now the gemsal ta^. of the Indiana £ranchKe in the new American Basket­ball Assoc, and will be livii^ in Indianapolis . . .that JOE REICH, MOORE McDONOUGH, CHUCK O'NEAL, TOM GUNNING and BILL McGOWAN are the respective preridents of their local Alumni Clubs .. . that JIM BYRNE got married May 27 and still had enough energy to make the Big 10 . . . that it took TOM HALEY, I^de and four children tm> days on the train from Pcvtland, Ore. to be on hand... that JOHN GIBBS would leave those two boys and two girb to make tius "dry" event . . . that TOM RILEY would stop defend&ig Prest^ Insurance in Skokie lor a few days . . . tiiat SY WOODY wouM stop selling for Reflective Products . . . that STEVE O'DONNELL would fake out on John Gillen Div.> Stanray Corp. in lovira . . . that JACK NOGA would stop controlling at Cabot Corp. in Boston and instruct­ing skiers and racing sloops to be here .. . tiiat MACK. HICKS would temporarily stop ^ving advice as a clinical psychologist in St. Petersburg and ^ve it to a bunch that really needs it — his classmates. 
One more missing— LEO MOMSEN who was married to Kathleen, Scudder May 27 in San« Diego. Most disappoint-' ing groups — those from Cleveland and Texas, save MOORE McDONOUGH from the latter ^oupC 
With this I take my exit as your Class secretary. It has been fun and without your cooperaticm it couldn't have been possible. I plead for you to g ^ your new secretary, Geoi^ Groble, the same asast you gave me, for it is only throu^ your support that we can maintain this strong Class loyalty that has been so well expressed in this column and phyacally eis;^ forced by the tremendous turnout for Expo '37 June 9, 10, 11 in '67 . . . For all of this my sincerest s^; preciation. —JOHN McMEEL ­

ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 

REUNION REGISTR.\NTS: Ra\Tnond Andrejasich, Edvrard Ayers, Lcc Ayottc, Wm. Bapst, John Barany, Harry Barkley, Donald Barr, Wm. Bartling, Wm. Bauer, Gerald Becliart, Lawrence Bedford, John Beggan, Daniel Bcggy, Menillio Bello, Paul T. Besser, Norris Bishton, Robert Bogg, Charles Bona, Kent Borkovcc, Louis Bosco, James Boyd, Michael Boyle, Wm. Brandon, Wm. Braun, Clyde Brcnnan, Thos. Brennan, Richard Brown, James Byrne, Dr. George A. Buckley, John Bure, Paul B>-ron, Robert Calahrese, James Canny, Marshall Catanzaro, Wm. Gate, John Chtaro, Edward Chott, Jay Clark, Paul Clemens, Charles Colligan, Francis Connelly, Norman Cook, Thos. Corrigan, Joseph CostcIIo, John Crowley, John Cusack, Tlios. Daly, George S. D*Amorc, Edward Dean, Wm. DeBot, Ra>-mond Dcrbas, Thos. Dieter, Donald Doherty, Vincent Doolcy, Carol Doyle, Thos. Doyle, James F. Driscoll, Bob Eckland, Richard Egan, Lee Elsey, Richard Fabbro, Thos. Fcnton, Raymond Fischer, Paul FIattcr>-, Don Flock, Francis Foley, Ronald Francis, Wm. Fultz, Hector F. Fuster, Wm. Gar\-in, Donald Gerth, John Gibbs, John Gould, Charles Grace, Robert Griffin, George Groblc, Wm. Grogan, Micliacl Gschwind, Tlios. Guilfoile, Paul Guitc, Albert Gustainis, Gaylord Haas, Thos. Haley, Lawrence Hammel, Donald Haney, James Harris, John A. Har\-ey, Paul Hcer, Ronald Heinz, James B. Hencghan, Thos. Herman, Mack Hicks, Earl Hogan. Rich Jacob, Stephen Janus, Robert Jason, Wm. Jchic, Steve Jendras, Wm. Jolly, Mansour A. Jowid, John Keller, Daniel J. Kelly, James R. Kennedy, George Keyes, Terence Kilbride, David Klockc, Elmer Kohorst, Norman Krauss, Thomas E. Kristopcit, AVm. Kuccra, Robert Kuhn, Stanley T. Kusper, Robert LaCasse, Robert Lalor, Cornelius Lane, Paul Leitzinger, Donald Leone, Richard L. Lewis, Wm. Lodge, Patrick Logan, Monotti Lombardi, Robert Loncharich, John Lucey, Henry Luepkc, Francis Lute, Bernie Lyons, Francis V. McBride, Charles T. McCafTerty, Edwin D. McCroy, Tom McDonald, Moore McDonough, David McFaddcn, Wm. M. McFadden, AVm. McGowan, Douglas McKay, Donald McManamon, John McMeel. Alex McMurtric, Donald Machenberg, Wm. Maddux, Emmett P. Malloy, Donald iMasini, Thos. Maus, Robert May, George Mojzisck, Wm. Mooney, DaWd Morris, James Morton, Thos. L. Mulcahy, Jr., James Munro, David Murphy, Jerry Murphy, Raymond Nelson, Frank Neubek, Wm. Newbold, John Nitka, John Noland, Peter H. Noznesky, Thos. O'Bryan, Charles J. O'ConncII, Hugh O'Donnell, Stephen O'DonncIl, George O'Lcary, Max Olinger, Lawrence Oppcnheimer, James J. O'Sullivan, Jos. Panzarclla, Jerome Parmer, Thos. Pendcrgast, Kieran 
J. Phekin, Jos. Pivnicka, Jerome Pokel, Jos. Policastro, J. Ron Pratt, Edward V. Quinn, James Quinn, Jos. Reich, Frank Reilly, John Reinhold, Lemont Rentcrghem Richard Reuscher, James Rice, Wm. Rigali, Thos. Riley, Jos- Rink, Emmanuel Rivas, Jos. Rohs, James Rowlands, Jos. Rusch, Wm. Ryder, Wm. M. Salter, Arthur Savoie, Paul Scliicrl, Loren Scliocnbadiler, John Scriba, Peter Shagena, Patrick Sheerin, Jos. Sheridan, Peter J. Sigona, Jos. Silk, Matthew Slana, Jolin Slcvin, Gerald Snyder, John Souc>-, Ercalo Splnosa, Frederick Strasser, Donald Stuhldreher, John J. Sullivan, Gregory Sullivan, John Suttner, Gerald Thees, Paul Tritschler, Dennis Troester, James Ullrich, Richard Walsh, Thos. Walsh, Donald E. Wasik, Wm. Watson, Robert Westrick, Matthew AVcis, Stephen Wiewiora, Charles Wittenberg, Silas Woody, John Woulfc, Henry Wurrer Jr., Thomas Wurzer, Eugene Yurgealitis, Jack Zielinski, Gary Zimmerman, Frank Zola, John N. Zufelt. 
 arc happy to report that the receipt of news has improved for tliis issue. Of 


1958 We 
course, there arc many of you from whom we have not heard in a long time and we would appreciate your dropping us a card. 
THONLAS J. XLALONEY SJ is currently study­ing tjicolog>- at Alma Col., Los Gatos, Calif. Fol­lowing graduation in 1958, Tom entered the Society of Jesus in California and has been study­ing for the priesthood ever since. He spent some time in St. Louis tvlicre he acquired a master's degree In political science. He has also taught in a San' Francisco high school for two years. He expects to be ordamed in June, 1969. 
' CHARLES SHANE writes from Washington, DC where he is employed with the law firm of Pcn­nic, Edmonds, Slorton, Taylor & Adams. Charlie was married a year ago and the Shanes are expect­ing their first cliild in August. 
THOMAS P. MEIRI.NK MD is the chief ortho­pedic surgical resident at St. Louis U School of Medicine. Tom and his wife welcomed the arrival of William Charles Aleirink, Afay 2. Airs. Mcirtnk has been elected president of the House Staff Wives Club at the medical school. The Afeirinks live at 24 Van Mark Way, St. Louis 63144. 
DR. JOSEPH P. E.MM1TE, Box 636, Dickinson, Tex. 77539, will complete his third and final year in internal medicine residency' at the John Sealy Hospital U of Tex. Medical Brancli of Galveston. The Emmites have two daughters, Eileen and Sharon, 4 and 2. 
CAPT. J. GARY COOPER, USMC, wrote from Vietnam, where he was civil aflfairs officer for the 9th Marine Regiment, with approximately 30 days remaining on his Vietnam tour of duty. TIic first five months of his tour had been spent as com­mander of a rifle co. Gary received his tliird wound during an attack on his base near the DMZ. Other ND almuni in the \^cinity were Major JAMES SWEENEY '57 and Capt. GEORGE N.W-ADEL '58. 
JOHN B. TIBERI, 1011 E. Taft Ave., ^Vheaton, III., sent us a resume of his years since gradua­tion. John spent four years in the Air Force, where he ser\'cd as a squadron CO the last two years, and left scr\'ice with the rank of captain. He was married in October, 1963 to the former Nancy StrefT of Chicago. They now have a son, John IV, and dauglitcr, Victoria. John presently is the VP of Allied Concrete Supply Co., Inc., of Chicago. 
JOHN ALACKSOOD MD is now residing at 5284 Territorial Rd, Grand Blanc, Mich. 48439. He has been in pri\*atc practice, specializing in anesthesiology. 
J. P. HOG.AN MD, 8126 Red Arrow Court, Wauwatosa, Wis. 53213, writes that he finished his general surgical residency* in June of 1967 and then began his training in plastic surgery at Duke 
U. Medical Center. Pat and his wife now have 
two daughters, Caroline and Kathleen. GERALD R. P.ASTULA, 91468 S. Fairfax, Den-
ARTHUR L. ROULE, JR. 102 "I " St., LaPorte, Ind. 46350 
vcr 80222, is still with Ford Motor Co. in the Denver District Sales Office where he is zone mgr. for Southern Colorado. The Pastulas report an­other addition to the family, son Terry bom in June of 1966. Tliis makes three children, the others being Mary Jane and Sam. 
LARRY PASSARELLA, 1700 N. 18th Ave., Mel­rose Park, III. 60160, has entered private law prac­ticc at 1800 Broadway, Melrose Park, after serving nearly five years as an assistant State's attorney in Cook County. 

WILLIAM A. SCANLON MD, 1926 W. Harri­$on St., Chicago 60612, was married in June to Miss Lillian Butterfield of Chicago. Bill is now in his second year of ophthalmology residency at Presby­terian St. Luke's Hosp. Tlie Scanlons are spending the summer in Maine, taking a post-graduate at Colby Col. 
OWEN G. BOSSMAN MD, « Pioneer, Coopers­town, NY 13326, is completing his residency at Buffalo General Hosp. He was to begin a National Institute of Health Research Fellowship in pul­monary physiology at the Mary Imogcne Bassett Hosp. in Coopcrstown in July. Owen would like to hear from BOB FERGUSON, DA.N BERGEN, MIKE CONNORS and JOHN WALSH. Also at Buffalo General Hosp. as an anesthesiology resi­dent is AHKE MADDEN MD. 
LOUIS C. BOSCO JR is practicing law in De­troit. GUY WEISMANTEL is regional editor for McGraw-Hill's Chemical Engineering magazine in Los Angeles. Guy recently saw NEAL SWEENEY in New York City and visited JIM VOIT in Philadelphia. THOM.AS S. GOZDECKI JR has been elected trust officer at the Calumet National Bank, Hammond, Ind. 
That's the extent of the ne\%3 for now. How­ever, we would wish to remind you of the annual after-game reunion in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn, Oct. 14, following the So. Cal. game. We hope a sizeable number of you will be able to attend, although we realize the difficulty in obtain­ing tickets this year. 
1958 LAW 
JOHN F. MARCHAL Marchal & Marchal, 116-118 W. 
4th St., Greenville, Ohio 45331 
ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 
Capt. JOHN M. LED­DEN is on duty at Wright-Patterson AFB (Ohio) at the Air 
1959 
University. JOHN 
MARTIN handles labor relations for nine, plants 
on the West Coast for the Borden Chem. Co. 

JAMES A. HANLON is marketing mgr. for the 
Heath Candy Co. MIKE PHENNER escorted his 

old friend L>*nda Bird Johnson to the Empire 
Room's Maurice Chevalier show. HOWARD I. 
DWYER JR. b now mgr. of new product re­
search and evaluation for the American Steel 
Foundries in Chicago. 
JOH.N P. EDWARDS \vas married to Miss 
Elaine Fchlig on the evening of June 19 in the 

Old Cathedral of St. Louis. John is now associated 
with the Mercantile Nat'l. Bank and lives at 3550 
Laclede, St. Louis. GEORGE ROSS, the flaming 
religious liberal, whose winter residence is Mt. 
St. Mary's Seminary here in Cinti., was in St. 
Louis to make sure John made it to the Cathedral. 
BOB HASSENGER, on the sociology faculty at ND, had his book The Shape of Catholic Higher Education published in May by the U. of Chicago Press. David Ricsman (Harvard) wrote the foreword and Bob has received excellent reviews at this writing. Dr. Hasscnger saw CHARLIE BOWEN at Har\'ard in April. Charlie is a doctoral candidate in Celtic lit. and will teach at Boston U in 67-68. The Bowcns are the parents of their first child, a boy. Bob sends further info that JOHN O'NEILL has his English PhD from Stanford, and is currently teaching at tlic U of Montreal. 
GENE FUNK sends the Jolict area news. 

FRANCIS "BRUD" PROCK has his degree in 
dentistry and is going on for his oral surgery 
degree. The Procks have four children, all under 
four. Dr. Prock and wife Kay (Dracca) and 
children arc moving to Augusta, Ga. this summer. 
BOB "Arse" MARSO is working for Xerox in 
Cliicago. He and Gene went to Canada in May 
JOSEPH P. MULLIGAN 
2680 Lehman Rd., Apt. 42, 
CincinnaH, Ohio 45204 

for bear hunting and fishing. (Bob is still single.) 
HENRY HOLMES, a three-year man who received his MD from Loyola, is now going on for orthopedic surgery. He is married to Judy Gallagher; they have twt> children and are living in Oak Park. ALEXANDER BARKLEY EWART can be reached through Industrial Chem. Corp., Windsor Road, Spanish Town, Jamaica, B.W.I., where he is mg. dir., has two children and has become quite a golfer. The Funks visited tlie Ewarts last year. 
HARRY LEINENWEBER is tlie JoHct city attorney, is married to the former Jerry Dunn of SMC and they have two children. 
Gene Funk spent three years with Kroger, was in the service, taught school a couple of years, and finally ended up in business with his father and brother. He lives in Joliet and commutes to Morris, III. wlierc they have a Walgreen drug­store and a small hotel. Gene married Shelia Rooney from St. Mary-of-the-Woods and they have a daughter, Kelly. Gene promises to write on our two classmates in Morris, JACK HINES and BEAU BROEMMEL, in the future. Thanks for the above. Gene. 
CHARLIE STEPHENS MD attended St. Louis U Med. School after graduation. In 1961 he married Judy LaChance of Louisville. Charlie interned in Louisville and has just finished residen­cy in OB-Gyn. Last month the one-time ND tennis player went into the Navy for two years and has been assigned to Portsmouth, Va. (Tlie Stephens' children are Michelle, Dona and Scott.) 
PETER HELLAWELL is the father of two children, Peter Jr. (2) and Lisa (3). Pete is product mgr. for Roman Products Corp. (frozen pizza) and just bought a new home in Pompton Plains NJ. PHILIP VELLA PhD married Mary Kay Wetzel in 1959 and they have three boys and two girls. From 1939 to 1961 he was employed by Bristol Labs, Syracuse, NY. The next three years were spent back at N D where Phil received Iiis doctorate in biology. Since then he has been the senior research virologist in the virus and cell biology dept. of Merck, Sharp and Dohme, AVest Point, Pa. He is in charge of research and development of lulled viral respiratory agent vac­cines. 
After three years on destroyers, two in submarines and three years as program mgr. for submarine and nuclear power training in the Bureau of Naval Personnel, PAUL WILLIHNGANZ left the 
ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 
ALUMNI IN THE 
Congrats 

'NEWS 
LCDR David J. Metz '55 has been honored by the Third Naval District for "significant contributions to the national defense" during 1966. Metz received the Naval Intelligence Award for his work in training Naval Reserve Intelligence Units in New York. He is employed by Eastman Kodak. 
James L Greene '57 was appointed to the new position of controller of Reserve Insur­ance Co. in Chicago. He previously served as regional controller in eastern regions of Allstate Insurance. 
F. J. Cullen '59 succeeded to the presidency of the Cullen-Friestedt Company upon the death of his father. The materials handling firm in Chicago was founded by his grand­father in 1907. Cullen, his wife and daugh­ter live in Oak Park, 111. 
F. Quinn Stepan '59 has been elected to the newly created position of vice-president for corporate planning for the Stepan Chemical Co., Northfield, 111. He was formerly gen­eral manager of the intemadonal department of the company. 
Thomas J. Schlereth '63 is one of 49 Ameri­cans who were awarded Kent Graduate Fel­lowships by the Danforth Foundation. He will be a Newberry Junior Fellow at the Newberry Research Library in Chicago, where he \vill assist in the supervision of a research seminar for undergraduates. This summer he is doing research on the papers of Benjamin Franklin at the American Phil­osophical Society in Philadelphia. He was also selected as a Dissertation Fellow by the Woodrow Wilson Foundation for his research proposal in 18th-century intellectual history. 
Rev. Raymond F. Kollt SVD PhD "65 has been appointed vice-president and chairman of the board of trustees at the University of San Carlos in Cebu City, Philippines. 
Navy in June to complete his last year at George^ town Law School (with classmates JOE DASCH­BACH and XL\RSH PIDGEON). Paul and Nancy would like to thank those wlio extended sympathy following the death of their son, Jon­athan. He died after a sudden attack of hemo­
. where were ^vc? Must mention some of the locals or I may end up wearing con­

1960 
crctc shoes. This year's UND Night in Chicago saw the following in "high spirits": PAT CRE.ADO\, BOB JUCK­NESS, ED KENNEDY, JIM CRONIN, PHIL COLLINS, CHARLES TAUCHE and ED Mc-KEOWN. 
Pat and Ed K. arc the "fathers of this issue." (Uttle play on words there.) Francis Patrick III '75, son of the lovely Carol (Scudcri), grandson of Francis Patrick I, Class of '28. Both Pat and his Dad arc resting comfortably. Fat is an IBM Sales Rep. 
Ed Jr. finally made his old man extra proud and happy after three girls. Ed was recently pro­moted to mgr. in the admin. ser\-iccs div. of A. Anderson & Co. Pat's former roomie Bob is with liberty Photoengraxing and Phil, who is still single, is in a similar line with J. J. Collins & Son. Jim Cronin is with Lake Shore Bank, has two kids and a great wife who lets him "have a taste with the bo^-s'* once in a while! Chuck Tauche, a Harvard LLB, is with a local firm. Ed b a Glen EUyn Che\^c dealer. 
Speaking of high finance . . . JIM ALLAN II! is working in the "btg bank with the little bank inside," as is JOE ANDERSON who, according to reports, recently became an officer of same. A past fall groom, BOB MARSHALL, finished law school recently while working for the Northern Trust Co. PHIL ALLExV of ^Valston and TOM BRINKWORTH of A. G. Becker may be able to 
THOAAAS J. O'CONNELL 
3350 Evereft Rd., Lake Forest, III. 60045 

give some advice on this roller coaster market. 
Last, but fay no stretch of the imagination least, BOB TOLAND. His tireless efforts as a reg. mgr. on behalf of the Temperature Equip. Corp. have earned Sue and him a new Mustang, two trips to Nassau and one c^ch to Jamaica, San Juan and Acapulco. Now that descr\'es a tip of the Green Derby! In addition, he still manages to keep the golf game in the 80s. 
"Letters, we get letters, wc get lots and lots and lots of letters . . . Dear Jack, er . . . Tom." TRAVELING MEN: DICK SOKOLOUSKE de­sign engineer for V/2 yrs. with Allis Chalmers, Milwaukee and Springfield, 4 yrs. \\-ith Collins Radio, Des Moines, and presently keeping •\nrgini3 (Gm^y) and Julia happy via Sioux City whole­sale auto parts co. 
Kochelhoffer and McGANT^?, as DON says, (Whew!). In addition to frau Mary Ann and 
^M ^0^^ J0^^^M Since the last article we 
^1 V^^ ^L^^ ^m have increased our family I ^1 ^ ^T^ • by one. My wife Tinky I ^^^r ^^^r I ga^'c birth to our third 
son. May 19. Now we have Mike, Pat and the the latest, Tim. 
I heard from the campus that FRANK GAR­GIULO is the new head football coach of Cardinal Spellman HS in the Bronx. FRANK YURASEK has joined Lamport, Fox, Prell and Dolk, Inc. of South Bend as an account exec of the advertising agency. 
LEONARD BLU?bf JR has been appointed gen. sales mgr. of Cainer Mfg. Co. The firm is head­quartered in Jeffersonville, Ind. Capt. FRANK PROCHASKA has entered the Air U. Squadron Officer Schfx>l in Alabama. He was prc\^ously sta­tioned at Upper Hayford RAF' Station, England, as an engineer. 
JOHN HOEY has Joined the Agency for Inter­national Development as an asst. program oflicer in Saigon, Vietnam. He will help plan and administer the use of AID resources in Vietnam. 
JOSEPH T. PIETRUS is working \rith the Eco­nomic Development Foundation of the Philip­pines in Manila as head of the manpower dev. dept. Last year be married Tercsita de Lara whmn he met in grad. school at the U of Penn. ED McGRATH has been advanced to mgr. of <2ata processing for Ethicon, Inc. 
Capt. PETER SCULLY and his family, which philus influenza oa the night after his third 
birthday in Iklarch. The Willihnganz* are kmkii^ 
forward to the arri\-al of their second child this 
month. 
CHARLIE FREDERICK has been named head 
football coach at Grecnhills HS in Cincinnati. 
Patricia, Maureen, Mike and Danny, he has been 
occupied as an accountant with Shell CKl, Mont. 
Ward, and presently Elgin, Jolict and East. RR in 
Joliet. Don is busy but not too much so to write 
and say neither should REICHERT, NICQLAZ­
21 and REANEY. 
LADIES CORNER: If Mrs. JOHN W. Mc-
CANN's correspondence is any indication of her 
personally, John is one very lucky guy. It was 
bursting with pride and happiness: ". . • he finally 
received his MBA from U of Det. with the help of 
his wife. With completion of six yrs. summer re­
serve obligation we should have a great summer 
with all the free time. Ford keeps him busy as a 
supr. in cost analysts; but we should make the 
football games. See you there." 
Mrs. KILLILEA and Kevin, Kari and Anne 
arc back in S. Bend where himself b sales 
mgr. for Hammes Olds. He recently was elected to 
the bd. of dir. of the ND Club of St. Joe Valley. 
They have had Linda and TOM KAMP as visitors 
from Davenport where he is an attorney. Also, 
Carol and TOM WARD visited from San Jose, 
where he is with the Bank of Calif. 
FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN JR's sister-in-law is de­
lighted to announce the arri\-al of Jr. courtesy ol 
Mary Ellen, daughter of GEORGE MATAUASKY 
'33. Frank is with the acctng. dcpt. of Jt^inson & 
Johnson. 
ED BOYLE's }bfom changed his address and 
noted: "he is a hard-working attorney with 
Payne, Jones, Alartin & Anderson in Olathe, Kan. 
He and Jeannic are responsible for Kathy and 
Eddie Jr." 
"There's a long, long trail amnding" . . • down to Texas for the blessing of Fr. RIVERS A. PATOUT in . Yes, friends, old Riven is noir old Father Rivers. Congrats. DAVE ADAM is field rep. for the March of Dimes in central Texas. He will work with 50 Tex. ofiBccs to assist them in expansion of the total mefiical care pro­gram for victims of birth defects and help inform the public of the research and prof. ed. programs of the foundation. 
FRED O'CONNOR is bringing with Electronic Data Systems Corp. in Dallas. He takes care d Patsy and daughter Kelly when not playing the w*rong side of the Bob Cfiarles Golf Course. "BOOMER" BASOLD, wife and child are surviv­ing nicely thanks to APCO Oil Co. in McAIester* Okla. 
THE LAST OUT: The Chi. Cubs in first dtv. C'mon, you've got to be kidding! Quick note to read your entire magazine. It is our voice of the University and it's, in my opinion, of excellent quality. Under JOHN THURIN '39, it is develop­ing rapidly, as is our school. Support them both! 
IN MEMORIAM: Rather than comment one H'ay or another on the Asian situation, I wcrald like to offer the following for JIM CARROLL 
now indudes a baby boy, are still in Hawaii where he is on the staff of the commander-in-chief of the Pacific JACK CAHALAN had kept his doctoral thesis in the family refrigerator for the last three years. The caution paid off when a fire ilid ex­tensive damage to his home in Worcester, Mass. The valuable papers, WTapped in a plastic ba;* were safe. 
MOSE GLYNN dropped me a note and said he was ordained April 27. He was at the Hall of Theology, St. Maiy of the I^ake Seminary, Mund^ lein, lU. 
CHUCK LET^ON wrote me from the Univexn­ty that he had left the athletic dept. in Mardi of 1966 and has been appointed coordinator ci sponsored programs for Notre Dame. It is Chuck'l job to work on the administrative aspect of grants and contracts the University receives from govern­mental and private agencies. Chuck and his wife have three boys, Kevin, Brian and Sean, and they had their first girl. Colleen Anne, in Fd>. HIS office is Room 318 in the Adm. Bldg. and he would be glad to see any of his classmates when they come to ND. 
Chuck tells me that BiOAN REGAN has left the real estate and insurance business in Joliet to 
WILLIAM HENNEGHAN 
30556 Scrivo Dr., Warren, 
Mich. 48092 

Charlie had prcnously served as ass't. coach at 
Highlands (Ky.) HS and as head coach at 
Newport Catholic (Ky.) HS. 
The sympathy of the Class is extended to 

JULIUS JODLBAUER on the death of his 
father. May 20. 
and CURT BAKER killed in action, other class­
mates assigned there, and two personal friends. 
O CHEERY CRICKET 
FROM YOUR CRY 
NO ONE COULD KNOW 
HOW SOON YOU MUST DIE 
Until kickoff tim^ 
Aloha 
I960 LAW 
After years of silence, LAW '60 is getting 

equal time. Actually, I'm tired of hearing Class 
news third hand. So help me satisfy my curiosity. 
For instance . . . JACK D'ARCY, JOHN 
"POGO" REILLY, BOB KUHNS, AL KAELIN, 
MIKE BOSCO, DON GARRITY, GORDON HO 
and JIM BEATTY. Where are you? The rest of 
you I've heard from or about, albeit vaguely. 
JON KUBIAK, an attorney for Maremount 
Corp., recently was elected asst. sec and has 
r^idly become an expert on securities law. 
TOM ERBS and \rife Mary Anne came to Chi­
cago on a long-overdue visit with Mary Lou and 
JOHN BEGGAN, your self-appointed secretary 
and wife. Marilyn and Anne and FRANK BRI­
ODY, cx-L'60. 
BOB HOUSE vmtcs from Bab^^on, NY of being 
immersed in Scout actiritics and practice with a 
two-man firm. Meanwhile, JOE MARINO has be­
come a fixture at the FCC in DC. 
Chicago Street Scene: DICK COLLINS walk­
ing bleary-eyed down Madison St. prior to the 
income tax deadline, preoccupied uith problems 
of his accounting firm. He said he recently had 
a visit from DON GARDNER. 
JOHN A. DiNARDO 721 Hinman Ave. Evanston, III. 60202 

HUGH McGUiRE seems to have disappeared 
xn the wilds of Detroit. Until two years ago he 
was a fairly regular visitor to Chicago. BOB 
BLAKEY continues to rock the boat of the world 
of crime in his extracurricular Law School activi­
ties. It's reported that he also teaches an effective 
criminal law course and our [avorite real proper­
ty courses. 
I'm associated \nth AMSTED Industries in Chi­
cago as a general attorney, after a year as a law 
derk, three years with the SEC and one year at 
Abbott Labs. NICK NEIERS, who preceded me 
as a law clerk during my stint in the Army, is 
now with a firm in Decatur. His activities lave 
been well documented in the Decatur Club new3 
appearing in the ALVUSVS. 
In return for this exciting first column, please nse a yellow postcard to let us know what you're domg. I guarantee full rebuttal time. 
take a post with AU-St«I Eqpt. Co. in Aurora, lll._ He was working »vith liis dad's agency in Jotiet after his tour of duty with the Marines in Santo Domingo. He and hb wife Sharon live in JoKct, 111. They have t»o children, Douglas, 3, and Christine, 1. 
TONY MILETO is doing work on the Puhlic Housing Project in Baltimore. Some of his archi­tectural work has been greatly acclaimed for its innovations. He is also an officer of the ND Balti­more Club. 
MIKE MORRESSY and his wife Martha still Eve m Cincinnati. Mike has been teaching and coaching since graduation. He switched to the city system after four years in Catholic system. 
JIM CAIN has left Crawfordsville, Ind., and he and Gretchen have moved to Portland, Ore., where Jim will continue to work for the Farm Implement Co. 
CHUCK MacMILLAN is stiU teaching biology (fifth year) at the CSC Brothers HS in Lakewood, Ohio. Chuck and Rose now have three children. 
GENE WrrCHGER and his wife and three chQ­dicn have moved from Indianapolis to Roanoke, Vs. Gene is doing engineering consultant work for an Indianapolis firm. 
JOHN BOWLING has returned Stateside after a tour of duty with the Aimy m Formosa. JACK MITCHELL and his wife Marda are still in big "D " Dallas. Jack is working for a bank there and they have three children (all girls). 
Thanks, Chuck, for the mformation and I would 
like to thank the rest of you who sent me informa­for the eastern area of New York State. In KELLY. 133 N. ScoriOe Ave. Oak Rak. HL tion the last couple of months. 1 have more news November of 1964 he returned to Erie, Vsu and 60301; LAWRENCE If. UANDYCK. 6U Grim but I am limited to the length of this article and joined the firm of MacDonaldj Illig, Jones and Road, Nashville. Ton . 37220; and STANLEY will put the rest of it in the next issue. See you Britton. His practice is general with some special­B. NELSON. Pcnniiyiy Coart No. 20^ IfomH then. ization in tax, corporate and defense lit^tion. vine. B>. 19067. 
He and Marie have five children who, accordiBg
1962 LAW 

to Norm, all look like Marie. In April, Norm and PAUL K. ROONEY 
NORMAN STARK writes that after graduation STAN PECORA attended UND Night in Erie. 
U.S. Courthouse, Foley Sq., 

he served for wo years as a capt. in the Army New addresses: PATRICK J. CASHIN, 3720 
at Aliiany, NY. He was in charge of recruitment W. 32nd St., Minneapolis, Minn. 53416; PETER O. New York, N.Y. 10007 
The events of Reunion '67 may upon us. Many were heard to munnur "wdoHiie to never make the annals of ND folk­South Bend," especially those caught on the golf course: 
1962 
lore. For those who attended, It must be added that the violent strnm only served to however, fond memories will be attached to the three temporarily halt the marathon card game headed bjr days most of us spent without sleep or water. the Maverick brother^ MAX BUR^&LL and BILL 
FORD. 

Highlights began ivith our Class Dinner Friday night sponsored by the "Daughten of Emily Post." After Saturday night found us united with all the other the invocation given by Fr. JOE MURPHY, the first classes in a tribute to retiring Alimmi Sec. JIM ARM­member of our class to be ordained, Pres. EARL STRONG at the Alumni Banquet in the North Dining LINEIHAN attempted to conduct the business at hand. Hall. More celebrating followed dinner until most (rf After much turmoil the following were elected to serve us called it a weekend listening to the strains of old until 1972: Earl Linehan, pres.; "BUCKY" O'CON­Irish baUads by RICH CCATENACCI and friends NOR, VP for the East; PAT SHERIDAN, VP-Mid-in the lobby of Morrissey at 3:30 ajn. west;JIM MURPHY, VP-South; MIKE HARTNETT, Yoius truly picked up a considerable amount <tf VP-West; JOHN CROWE, VP-Soudi Bend; JIM information whidi will help fill this column in issues KRAUSER, sec, and TOM QUINTST, treas. to come. However, I implore you to keep in touch 
My thanks to those outgoing officers, particularly by writing to me directly, to your regional VP or to 
TERRY MCCARTH Y whose shoes I will attempt to the Alumni OfiSce. If at all pwssiblei send in any change fill. By the way, Terry has to get some sort of a\vard of address immediately to the Alumni Office. See you as he came all the way from Tokyo for the Reunion. in two months. —JIM KRAUSER (Hope to see you guys from Chicago in '72 who 
REUNION REGISTRANTS: John Arbino, Robert Bartholoiiiew. Jolw couldn't make it this time.) Following the election of Beall, William Beier, Paul Belden IH, Thos. Bennek, Wm. Biier, Michael J. Bishko, Jr., James Black, Richard Boemer, jdm P. Booker, 
officers, TOM PAGNA, backfield coach under Ara, 
James Breen, Charles R. Brown, Christopher Buckley, Lawrence Bunchek, gave a very sobering talk. He told how ND appears to Nicholas Buoniconti, Max Bumell, Dennis Butler, Donald*' Candidn, Wm. Cary, Wm. Cashore, Richard Catenacci, Andrew Chqilin, Wm. 
him as an "outsider looking in." Our thanks to Coach 
Choquctte, Jack Clark, Wm. deary, James CoUttts, Kevin Coimelly. Pagna for a job well done. Paul Couture, Richard Cramer, Richard T. Creedon, John W. Crowe. Francis Culligan, Jack Ciurtin, John J. Davis, John Dearie, Stepher Dee. Following the banquet, the Morrissey Hall tent with Joseph P. Delia Maria, Qmn Denvir, John P. DeWerth. Charles Digiovaima, Frank Dufiy, James Duncan. Frank Dnnham. Raynood 
its beer awaited the majority. It must be admitted 
Durand, James Fallon, James Finucane. Jim Fitch, Wm. Fluncrr. though that a few were seen leaving the campus after Wm. Ford, John F. Gillard, Hark Galdanith, John Govrean. Victor SI. Grabowski. Bernard Groner, Stephen Gurchik. August Gureno. Robert 
lights were out and heading toward a chapel along the 
Hamilton, Robert M. Hanlon, Michael Bart, Vincent Hart^aa, Joba j5 ^ roadside some-Harty, Wm. Hamilton, Dana Hayes, John S. Hayford, John Henrich. Robert Henry, Thos. Hibbs, Neil Hitz, Loms J. HoUenbadh m , Joba '•^^^ " where near NUes, £du*ard Hurley, Donald Imbus, Kenneth Jannot, Jack Jiganti, Thos. 
Mich. 

C. Jorling, Jas. H. Kavanaugb, Dennis Keating, Raymond KeDy. Ronald Koeppel, John Kovacs. H. James Kramer, Earl T.inrhan, Wau 
For those who Long, John McArdle, James McCabe. Jorling McCab^ Terrence McCarthy, Jack McDonald, Terrenee J. HcGlinn. Eugene McKale, 
made it out of bed 

John McNamara, John McReynoIds. John Macfaeca. John Maddigan. aturday morning, Francis B. Maher, Mark Hartiuardt, Ronald Micek. John Miael, Midnd Minelli, Patrick Monahan, Frank Moorman, Michael Mnmy. Robert 
''the Class Mass, 

Nash, Theodore Nylese, Brian O'Comior, Charles O'Connor, Barold 
Class Picture, Orthmcyer, Zip Osgood, Wm. Otten, Stanley Pecan, Wm. Pietrowicz, 
Robert A. Policastro, Thos. Quinn, Walt Ricbenack, Norfaert Roy. Joka 
campus tours and 

Ryan, Michael Sanderson, Frank Sur. Daniel Santer, Wa. Sranliw, more merriment in the tent were available. The high Paul ScheUhammer. Henry Scheyer. George Schmitz, George Sefdk. " 
Allan Sell, Patrick Sheridan, Delbert Shew, Thos. Smith, Wo. Snyder. 
point of the entire Reunion came early Saturday after­
Frederick Spatz, Wm. Stackpoole, Thos. Stapleton, Dennis Sternky. noon when, with tornado \vamings being issued over the Robert Strahs, Wnu Sullivan, Jerry Swanson, David Thomas, Wayne 
Thompson, John Tidgewell, Jay Titoae, Steven Weidner. David Wigtoo, 
radio, a torrential downpour including hail descended David J. Witchger. 
V ;. 
T 5? * 
ROBERT F. MEXSIK, WILLIAM J. BUR­GLECHEXER JR., EDWARD W. KEN­

1963 
NEDY, DAVID R. 

SHIVELL and JAMES R. BEST have been promoted to captain in the USAF. Best is a member of the "C-133 Cargo Master Crew of the Year" in his Militar)* Airlift Command unit at Tra\-is AFB, Calif. 
DICK RUSTECK has been sent to the minor leagues for reassignment. Army P\'t. JAMES M. HESS completed eight weeks of ad\'anccd infantry training at Ft. Dix. Army 1st Lt. ROBBINS M. 
A. STOCKING completed the Adj. Gen. Officer basic training course at Ft. Benjamin Harrison. 
The nine seminarians of the Holy Cross Fathers, Indiana Province, recently ordained arc members of the Class of 1963. They are RICHARD L. POTTHAST, JOHN W. ALLEN, JOHN J. BLAZEK, RUDOLPH E. G.AWLIK, HERBERT J. KUEHNE, TERRANCE M. L.\LLY, MICILAEL 
F. MIKAN, MER\n'N J. THOMAS and THOM.AS F. ELLIOTT, 
Na\T Lt, RICHARD \V. McMANUS has re­turned from his seven-month deployincnt with the VP-17 anti-submarine patrol squadron in Vietnam. \y. DAVID AMES and his bride Slicila Kelly are living in Dixon, III., following his discharge from the Na\-y. He is working for Ames Furniture Co. 
RICHARD SCHMITZ is with the Seismograph Serxice Corp. in Tulsa after earning his MA in geology at the U of Missouri. The man in charge of operations there is also an Alumnus, TONY KOCHENDORFER. 
GEORGE C. HOPKINS has joined the staff of the Los Alamos Scientific Lab. as a ph\-sici5t. He received his PhD in nuclear engineering at Purdue this year. MIKE LARSON and wife Boo 
1964 
WARREN C. STEPHENS 1100 Clove Rd., No. 5-C Staten Island, New York 
ALLEN BLAZEK 
All nine seminarians of the Holy Cross Fathers' Indiana Province ordained to tlie priesthood in May are members of the Notre Dame Class of 1963. Formal assignments for furtlier duties will be made late this summer. 
FRANK P. DICELLO 218 Palmer Hill Rd., Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
have left the military* and have moved to Phila­delphia where Mike is working for Traine. Sue Sulli\-an and CHRIS LANE were married April 29. JOHN J. MULROONEY is now working for the Air Force at the Pentagon. PARLE BLAKE graduated from Georgetown Law last summer and passed the Virginia bar. He is now \rith the FBI in Nashville, Tenn. 
KEN TELESCA w^ married at ND June 17 to Margaret Hartnett. Ken recently received his MS in bus. adra. from the State U of NY. JAY CHOLLAK married Penny Martini in Aug. of *65 and was graduated from Jefferson Medical School June 2. Jay plans to enter the Air Force upon graduation and will be assigned to Madigan General Hosp. in Tacoma, Wash. TIM HAID­INGER received an MBA from Stanford in 1965 and has since entered the Navy, Tim married Judy Lockridgc in Pasadena in April. DICK WOODS was married April 1 to Vickie Jablonski. He has just completed his second year at Pcnn Law. FRANK VITRO has spent the year teach­ing psychology at Parsons Col. and pursuing a PhD program at Iowa U. 
Capt. DAVID DEKA is commanding Co. A of the I8th Engineer Brigade in Qui Nhon, Vietnam and recently was instrumental in the reopening of Vietnam Inghu-ay QL-1. His company built and repaired bridges, filled ruts and swept for mines. JOHN DOHERTY JR. has been commissioned a 2nd It. in the Air Force and has been assigned to a unit in San Francisco. 
A number of AFROTG grads arc 5cr\'ing over­seas: Lt. PETER CERROW at Cam Ranh Bay, 
1964 LAW 
A joyous note from Carol and LOU PFEILER announces the arrival and prospective adoption of Mar>'bcth Pfciler. Congratulations and best wishes to the new parents! 
Your scribe enjoved a short visit with the SWEEN'EYs after the Old-Timers Game May 6. CHUCK reports receiving a letter from **Thc Commodore** revealing his plans to trek eastward for the Soutliern Cal.—Illinois—Micliigan State trilogy this fall. 
.And speaking of Southern Cal, will you be 
GAWLIK 
a concelebrated Mass in St. Basil's Parish Church, Brecksville, Ohio, May 28. The superior of Holy Cross College, Rev. George Bernard CSC, Washington, DC, preached. 
• Father Rudolph E. Gawlik, a cum laude graduate of Notre 

South Vietnam; Lt. ROBERT FERREL at 67th TFS, APO San Francisco 96239; Lt. HE.\RY KILEY, TFW, Woodbridgc, England; Lt. RICHARD LUDWIG, 40 TAC Gp, AVIANO, Italy; Lt. EDWARD C. NLARCATO, 50th TFW, Hahn AB, Germany; ROBERT ROBUCK, CMR Box 413, APO New York 09109; Lt. JOHN SEGURA, 49th TFW, Spanghalcm, Germany; Lt. MICHAEL SEXTON, Phanrang, South Vietnam. Lt. FRANK L. MOHLER III has been decorated with the Air Medal for meritorious sen-ice as a B-52 Strato Fortress co-pilot during military flights in Southeast Asia. He is now at GIasgo\*f AFB, Mont. 
SAL CILELLA received an MA from ND in Aug. *66. He is now in Army OCS at the Quartermaster School at Ft. Lee, Va. Sal will be married to Marifred Broucek on Aug. 12. BOB WILKI.XSON, wife Molly, and their two children arc now living in New Orleans. Bob will graduate from Tulanc Medical School in June and move to Los Angeles where he will intern. CLINT BROOKS and wife Pat became parents of a daughter, Ellen Margaret, in March. Clint Is employed as an engineer at Bell Aeros>'slcms. in Buffalo, GEORGE YEEND and family arc living in Niagara Falls, NY. George, a Nav>' Lt., com­mands the USS Prowess, a training ship stationed in Bufl^alo. BRIAN SHEEDY was graduated from U of Buffalo Med. School in June. He plans to do his internship at Buffalo General Hosp. 
1963 LAW 
JOSEPH R. SULLIVAN 1526 E. Cedar St., South Bend, Ind. 46617 

seen on lO-H? Thus far no one has expressed any interest in putting a party together for that weekend. Any volunteers? 
While wc*rc on the subject of no one, where arc the letters or even postcards from all you folks out there in lau-yerland? How about a word or two from the SLATERs, HANLOXs, GALLICKs and MYLOTTEs? 
THOMAS F. CONNEELY 556 Elmwood Ave., Evanston, III. 60202 

 KUEHNE LALLY 
Northwestern University during the past three summers and he will continue to work for his MA de­gree there. He concelebrated his first Mass May 27 in St. Robert Bellarmine Church, Chicago. 
•
 Father Terrance M. Lally con­celebrated his first Mass at St. Ferdinand Church in Chicago June 4. One of the participants was his classmate Father Kuehne. 

•
 Father Michael F. Mikan of­fered his first Mass at St. Francis de Sales Church in Chicago June 


4. Rev. Matthias Fischer, pastor of the parish, was the archpricst. 
• Father John W. Allen is a na­tive of Indianapolis. Like his class­mates, he pronounced his tempo­rary religious vows at Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn. He preached the sermon at his first Mass May 27 in St. Patrick's Church, Indianapolis. 
• Father John J. Blazek offered Dame, was active in the aposto­late to tlie deaf in Washington, DC, and at Gallaudet College dur­ing his four years of study at Holy Cross College. His first Mass was May 28 in St. Catherine of Genoa Church, Chicago. 
• Father Herbert J. Kuehne has been studying anthropology at 
JIM D\VYER is now 
fulI-flcdgcd CPA. He's still enjoying the bachelor life in Clcvc­

1965 
land while working for 

Touche, Ross, Bailcy and Smart. Jim writes that PAT ZILVrriS was presented \*ith a baby boy, Brian Patrick, by his wife Judy last April. Rhodes Scholar JOHN GEAREN will enter Yale La\v school in the fall. 
JACK. COFFEY received his MS at ND in January, was married to Mary Ann Kotzcnmacher in Feb. and is now working as environmental pollution advisor for the US Chamber of Com­merce in Washington, DC. LARRY WIND is stationed at Lowry AFB with the Mich. Air National Guards* 171st Tact. Recon. Squadron. He is on leave of absence from Ford's Detroit District Sales Office where he was employed as their administrative coordinator. BOB ZIELS­DORF is working as a cop>-writer for the E. F. AfacDonald Co., the largest sales incentive agency in the world. Bob's wife, Fran, had a baby girl, Kristcn Michelle, last Dec. Bob is living in Dayton and writes that TOM FRAXCK and wife Salli had a son, Tom Jr., in March. Tom is a Navy OCS graduate currently at Supply Corps School in Athens, Ga. 
RANDY RAXDOL received his MSE in nuclear engineering at the U of Florida last April. Randy is continuing his work for a PhD and hopes to complete his dissertation by Sept. '68. He is on an AEC fellowship. BOB MILLER is a lieutenant in the Army Medical Service Corps via the direct commission route and is stationed at Ft. Benjamin Harrison in Indianapolis. Bob received his MBA last August from Xavier U. STEVE VAN HEYDE w ^ married to Nancy Mickley of Mt. Vernon, Ohio last August. Steve is at Ohio State Law School. 
STEVE WERNER was married in May to Karen Campbell of Greenville, Ohio. Steve is beginning his fourth year at Jefferson Afcdical School where he is president of the Phi Chi Medical fraternity. Ens. BERNARD KOMPARE USNR is serving as administrative ass't. to the executive ofhccr aboard the destroyer USS Theo. E. Chandler in Vietnam waters and homeported in Yokosuka, Japan. Lt. RICK DEICHL USMC has completed basic training at Quantico and is now fljing jets at Marine flight school in Meridian, Miss. 
Army Pvt. PATRICK J. QUIXN was named honor graduate upon completion of an eight-week clerk course at Ft. Leonard Wood. WILLIAM 
MIKAN POTTHAST 
JAMES P. HARNISCH 71 Poland Manor, Poland, 
Ohio 44514 
OLIVER ALBERTINI has been awarded a master's 
degree in bus ad. from Lehigh U. PATRICK A. 
MULLOY MA has been promoted to Class 7 
in the US foreign service. He is assigned to the 
consulate general in Montreal. LUTHER G. 
BELLINGER has taken an industrial post with 
Bcndix Corp. 
ROBERT L. DILEXSCHXEIDER and ED­WARD S. OJD.\XA JR. have received master's degrees from Ohio State U. WILLIAM WELU MA, art instructor at Briar Cliff Col., won the judge's special mention award at a show in Waterioo, Iowa. Pvt. NICHOLAS C. RASSAS has been awarded the Physical Combat Proficiency Trophy during graduation ceremonies at Ft. Ben­ning. Army Pvt. JOHN W. RYNELL completed eight weeks of advanced infantry training at Ft. Ord, Calif. 
2nd Lt. PHILLIP A. FLUSCHE has been awarded USAF silver pilot brings upon graduation at Reese AFB, Texas. DOUGLAS ARTHUR BOD­NOVICH was awarded a master's degree in bus. ad. at Western Michigan U this spring while Pcnn State U aw:irdcd JOHN ANTHONY CICIARELLI an MS. JEREMY LANE and EDWARD A. Mc-COYD arc editors of the Fordham Law Review. 
NORM NICOLA has signed to play for the Philadelphia Eagles. FRANK VOGEL and wife Pam [former Pam Barall; SMC '65] had a son, David Anthony, bom to tliera in June, 1966. Frank is serv-ing as a consultant s>-stems analyst for Motor­ola, Inc., and is living in Berkeley, 111. CY KEN­NEDY is engaged to Mary Jo Postorino, SMC '66 and is working for Radio Steel Mfg. Co. MIKE RE.AD was recently elected pres. of Delta Theta Phi law fraternity* at Loyola Law School where he is entering his last year this fall. 
June 24 I was married to Kathleen M. Bayer (SMC '66) of Manhasset, NY. The event pro­vided an opportunity for an impromptu reunion of ND men. Kathy and I arc living in Columbus, Ohio, where I am in my third year at Ohio State Medical School. 
1965 LAW 
With all the casualties Ave hear about in the news lately, I am glad to report that our hero, DAVE COSTANTTNO, is still plugging along "in his tenth month" in Vietnam. Dave claims 
THOMAS ELLIOTT 

there is a great deal of trial work zanginff from 
murder, involuntary manslaughter on down to 
lesser offenses. 
He writes: '^There is a chance I might go 

out to an infantry battalion. It is -what 1 want. 
If so, I will spend a little more time out here." 
A short prayer in his direction might help bis 
cause. Let's see those "Domer" beads fly! 
DOUG SPECIA informs us that he is now 

the proud father of two—David, 13 mos., and 
JOHN, 2 mos. U you recall, Doug is with the 
firm of Murphy, Timm and Lennon in Joliet. 
Approximately seven months ago he was ap­
pointed to the Will County Zoning Board 'of 
Appeals and claims that he rides the circuit "Abe 
LincoIn.styIe" to hear zoning cases all over the 
county. 
Some of you may remember HENRY J. 

"HANK" HIGGINS, an old classmate and 
Alaskan returnee. Hank spent a couple of years 
in our new state with the .Army and loved "the 
~~ JOHN A. HAUTER 1050 Indiana Ave., Glenwood, III. 60425 
rugged life." Hank and wife Katie and twt> 
sons, Joseph and Michael, are now residing in 
Arlington Hts., 111. where they have just purchased ' 
a new home. Hank now works with Arthur 
Andersen & Co. in the adm. services dept. and 
finds his work interesting and quite challenging. 
Guess who got him interested in the firm? 
Another bachelor bites the dust! Can you 

guess? The one, the only man about town— 
MICHAEL J. BISHKO. This summer is when 
the big event will take place. 
My son, John, now 3, is enrolled ia a 

Montessori School and I can only sing praises of 
the results to all of you. He was a very bright 
child to begin vnOx but now he is a "miniature 
adult." Those of you who arc parents, I strongly 
urge any research on your parts about the 
Montessoii method. I became interested in it 
through Janet and am now a newly elected VP 
and trcas. in a local school. 
Hope to see many of you at the games this 

fall. Any games we attend, H% will be sure to 
stop at the Law School following the game. 
Meet YOU there? 
The summer is well under way and those '66 grads who still "Svoik" only nine 

1966 
months a year arc en* joying their short racations. DAX OVERHOLSER is relaxing after finishing his first year of Dental School at Indiana University. Dan was married June 10. 
There are many other med. school students who put away the hooks for a few months. Two of these, also at lU, are JOHN* PROOS and TOM GRUSZYXSKI. MIKE RY.AN and TOM OCHELTREE arc awaiting the start of their second year of med. school at Illinois. JOE WOODS is at Michigan Med. school. BILL SEIDENSTICKER is at St. Louis U. QUENTIN MACMANUS has finished his first year at Washington Med. School and is planning a Sept. 2 wedding before returning to the books. 
Among other students planning on returning to the books in September are D.WE ^LALONE who's in law school at the U. of Virginia and who is awaiting a July 29 wedding to Dorinda Felaccio SMC '66. MIKE STEFAN! is studying law at Michigan and was married May 14. Rusty Lovell is studying law at Nebraska U. and W.ALTER BAPST is at law School at Tulane. 
JOHN MONTGOMERY, married last August, is at the U of Wisconsin studying for a PhD in math. He and his wife Karen are expecting a. young Montgomery in October. 
ALFREDO GONZALEZ returned home to Puerto Rico to be married June 10 and will soon come hack to the States to finish up on his. MS degree at Carnegie Tech. He is working under a scholarship from Puerto Rico. 
STEPHEN ^LAC^L\NUS—recently the proud father of a daughter, Michelle Elise—is in St. Louis at the Graduate School of Business at Washington U. NEAL G.ARDNER will be re­turning to law school in the fall at Catholic U as wiU HENRY CATENACCI and AHKE CAOLO at ND. JOHN McDERMOTT at UCLA and TOM ANDERSON at OHIO State. 
JIM Mc^LANUS is currently in Karlsrurh, Germany. MATT BOYLE is at Craig AFB where he H-ill finish his pilot training in October. BILL SHEILS (the Nassau man) was recently com­
63 

•
 Father Richard L. Potthast prepared for a post-ordination as­signment to missionary work in Uganda, East Africa. During his theology studies in Washington, DC, he participated in several pro­grams for the underprivileged. He also took linguistics courses at Georgetown University and grad­uate biology courses at Notre Dame. His first Mass was in Holy Cross Parish Church, South Bend, May 28. 

•
 Father Merwyn J. Thomas of­fered his first Mass and preached the sermon at St. Patrick's Church 


ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 
in Ryan, Mich., May 28. Father Thomas studied at Jacksonville (Fla.) University in his home town before joining the Holy Cross Fathers. 
• Father Thomas E. Elliott ^vas the only member of his class to be ordained in his home parish, St. Teresa in North Tarrytown, N.Y. All of his classmates were ordained in Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame. Father Elliott received Holy Orders at St. Teresa's May 
27. He hopes to begin studies for a Ph.D. in Church history at Catholic University in the fall. 

misdoncd a 2nd licut. in the Air Force and is at 
navigation school at Alather AFfi in California. 
TOM GREEN %^'as commissioned ensign in the 
US Na\y, March 10, at Newport, He b scrnng 
aboard the destroyer, USS Shelton, in the 7th 
Fleet after completing a lO-wcck damage control 
school in San Frandsco. 
JIM HAWKINS, our most heard-from military 

man, is in a six-month program at Navy Supply 
Corps School in Athens, Ga. BOB PLANK, 
BOB RIVIELLO, BOB PETERO and JACK 
PAVLIC are at Ft. Benning. Thc first two were 
recently married. JOHN BLUM and his wife 
Iklary are liWng at Ft. McArthur where John is 
currently stationed. JOHN HEAD in OCS at 
Ft. Benning was married June 12 to SMCer 
Carolj-n Powley. BILL HILL is touring the 
&Iediterranean with the Na\y and enjoying him­
sclL JOHN RAHIYA is in Army OCS at Ft. 
Dix where he Vk-3S named thc most outstanding 
post trainee. JOHN CWAN is at Ft. Lee, 
Va. in OCS. John, who was engaged on New 
Year's Eve, is planning a wedding Sept. 16 or 
23, whichever Uncle Sam allou-s. MIKE MALLOY 
is a 2nd licut. in the Finance Corps currently at Ft. 
Benjamin Harrison in Indianapolis and DAVE 
PFLANY is a 2nd licut, with NATO in Brussels, 
Belgium. Bob Harrigan, Glee Club pres. in 
2966, is in OCS at Ft. Eustis, Va. ivhere he is in 
the Transportation Corps. Speaking of thc '66 
Glee Club, MIKE MURPHY would like to 
hear from *66 Glee Clubbers. Thc\- can write to 
Mike at 7333 Constance, Chicago 60649. 
DICK KASHI is in the Peace Corps in Tanzania 

where he is a senior sdence master at a secondary 
school. 
The men of *66 are, after only one year out of school, performing exceptionally well and have become successfully established in a number of 
RICHARD ANGELOTTl 
8640 S. 86fh Ave., 
Apt. 203, Justice, 
III. 60458 

fields. BILL DALY is working for General Dj-namics at Rochester. GEORGE PALMER and CLARK PLEISS underwent Thomson and McKin­non's Training Program in Indianapolis and George is now a stock broker in Jackson\-ilIe. He and wife L\-nn will celebrate their first Wedding anniversary Aug. 6. 
JIM PHELAN was recently a dad for the first time. The DEANE PLANEAUXs and DAVE WORLANDs are awaiting future ND grads. DAVE TWOHY was married April 15 at St. Patrick's in Long Island. 
There are many other weddings in the news as summer comes and socs. M. O. AflLLER w:is married June 17 and honeymooned in Jamaica. 
M.O. will return to Tulane Law School in the faU. BERN HERBENICK was married June 17 also. Two April weddings were those of BILL BREEN and E. J. FINXERAN. Bill, who is working for Allstate Insurance, had '66cr BILL JOSEPH as an usher and classmates JIM PHELAN, JOE ROBINSON and FR.\NK MURTHA in attendance. E.J. %vas married at Sacred Heart on Campus to Mar>* Dunn SMC '66. His ushers indudcd 66'ers MIKE MURPHY, CL.\RK B.AKER and RICK WIERICH. After a honeymoon in the Smoky ^fountains he returns to Chicago where he teaches sales. MIKE CAOLO was married to Patty Dalton in Dallas in June. JOHN BUCK, JOHN PHILLIPS, JOE PETE WILBERT, TERRY GOLDEN and JAY Mac-DONALD were in the ^vcdding. 
It is with great pride and happiness that I announce that this \\i\\ be my last column as a single man. I will be married July 29 at Sacred Heart Church on the ND campus and a reception at the Lincoln Highway Inn will follow. My beautiful bride, Carol Flaherty SMC '66, and I will honeymoon in Florida and Nassau and then return to Chicago where Carol %vill teach and I will begin my second year at Loyola Law School. 
1966 LAW 

Pat and MARTY IDZIK spent two weekends in DC before finishing Army JAG school at Charlotts\alle. On one of the weekends PAUL POLKING hosted a well-attended "lawn party." Pat and Marty now head for Ft. Hood Texas where they will join forces with NORM AL\NDEL. Pat and AfARTY COX^VAY, who were married July 8, will be at Camp LeJeune wth the &Iarincs for some time. 
Etta and SCOTTY AL\XWELL are now at Quantico undergoing Alarine infantry training. 
After the Afarincs present Etta with m diinmer, 
trimmer Scotty, they will head for Neivport, RI 
and JAG school. Scotty has become a "first 
attempt" winner on both the Indiana and Pen­
n5yl\*ania Bars. Good new% from New YoA 
places BOB SIEBERT and TOM HULL amooff 
the successful candidates on the NY Bar caam. 
BOB MURPHY requested to be sent to Newport 
for summer duty with the Navy reserves to be 
near wife^ family, etc. Since Bob has been 
spending most of his time in the South, tbe 
Navy assigned him to Norfolk, Va. where Bob 
can be expected to down ''more than one'* «nth 
TOM HARVEY who is in residence there sohnng 
the legal problems of NASA. 
Continuing in this militaristic vein, mfoimatioa 
has it that JOE DELLA MARIA has accepted 
a commission with NAVY JAG, effective after he 
finishes his dcrkship with Judge Kiley. TOM 
KENNEY who "volunteered" for the Reserves 
\rill soon be embarking on a six-month tour of 
active duty with Army Intelligence. Fortunately, 
for Tom and Julie, four of those nx months 
wll be spent at Army Intelligence School, Fort 
Holabird, which is near their home in Baltimore. 
To ease the emotional strain of his departure, 
Tom threw a farewell party for the rest of us. 
We drank. He cried. 
DICK STEINBRONN wiU be receiwng all mail 
at this address: 526 Military Police Detachment, 
Ft. Grecly Alaska, APO Seattle 98733. IHck 
commands that unit. 
TOM WARD visited Washington and had dinner and went to a ball game with PAUL POLKING and yours truly. True to my stattis. as an "auto jinx," we were '*rear<nded" after the game in Paul's new Buick. Fortunately, no one was seriously injured and the car is now running good as new. Tom reports that life in the corporate law dept. of Mead Johnson in Evans­ville is most interesting and enjoyable. He and Julie are swinging with the country dub set and whisking around the country on company planes. Tom also reports that Sue and TOM GRIFFIN's little boy Alichad Tom is as precocious as nught be exi>ected. 
Tcrri and BOB KRAUSE report the good news of an expected arrival at Christmastide. To quote from Bob's letter: "Never let it be said that the Krauses take any longer than necessary to get things done." 
Needless to say I am pleased to report that Cookie is expecting our second child in early October. At that time I will be derking on the Supreme Court for Mr. Justice Brennan. After completing that derlcship I have agreed to become associated with the firm of Sutherland, AsibU and Brennan of Washington and Atlanta. I will be in the Washington office so Cookie and I will be making our permanent home here. 
FRANK GREGORY 7403 Keystone Lane Forestville, Md. 20028 
Talking to Super STEVE SEALL in late May, I learned that Bonnie and he were expecting imminently. By the time this column sees printer's ink they should be w'elMnitiated in the care and feeding of new children. Steve is also brushing up on the care and feeding of a new house. Both house and baby are conveniently scheduled to arrive at thc same time. 
Steve also reported that JAY DOUGHERTY is back in Florida practidng law and is married. Jay started in Florida but then moved to South Bend for some time. 
JOHN HAUGH has decided to stay in Portland and will associate with Green, lUchardson, Gxiswold and Murphy, a firm in Portland practidng labcnr law, admiralty and personal injury law. 
Please continue to forward the informadon cards to me whenever >*ou have any news of yourself or classmates. We are most intersted in cuTremt business addresses. If you send them on to me I will make sure the school is informed and urill also publish them 5n this column. Let me know if you are going to be in South Bend for any football games. Hopefully we can arrange some get-togethers. 
1967 
JOHN J. HUGHES 99 W. 37th Sf. 

Bayonne, N.J. 07002 
TWENTY Notre Dame law students are working in public offices in South Bend tins summer. 
Allen D. Barnard, Richard F. Hen­

nessey and Robert W. Herr, all mem­
bers of next year's third-year class, 
and John Stoltzfus, who will be in the 

second-year class, are working with 
migrant faim workers. Their "clients" 
bring problems ranging from con­
sumer credit to automobile insurance, 
from adequate housing in migrant 
worker camps to problems in the 
juvenile courts. The four students 
are working under the general super­
vision of Asst. Dean Thomas F. 
Broden Jr. KSG and Prof. Conrad 
Kellenberg. 
Terrance Kelly and E. La^vrence Miller, both third-year students, are assigned to the South Bend Fair Employment Practices and Human Relations Commission. Their duties include commission investigation and complaint procedures and a broad-ranging study of the community's power structure. Dean Broden and Prof. Thomas L. Shaffer are their supervisors. 
Six students are assigned to St. Joseph county's public defenders— John E. Amerman, Lewis G. Laderer and Timothy Woods of the third-year class and Sander P. Margolis, H. David Prior and Merie F. Wilberding of the second-year class. 
Five students work in the county prosecutor's office — John H. Coyle and Thomas Kapacinskas of the third-year class and James C. Dukat, Robert Hughes and Stephen L. Odgers of the second-year class. Two are assigned to the neighborhood law office—Ivan Bodensteiner and Gerald 
J. Rapien—both third-year students. 
Professors G. Robert Blakey and Robert E. Rodes Jr. supervise the prosecutors; Professors Kellenberg and Shaffer, the public defenders, and Dean Broden and Professor Kellen­berg guide the neighborhood law office workers. 
Three other students are working in Mississippi under the same summer program—Owen W. Moon and John 
P. Rowe of the third-year class and 
Q. Anthony Siemer of the second-year class. Their supervisor is Rev. William M. Lewers CSC. 
Most other members of the third-year class and half of the second-year class are spending the summer in private law offices or in government legal work. 
Graduate Placement. Twenty-six of the 62 young lawyers who were grad­uated in June plan to enter private practice in small or middle-sized law firms. Their commitments range all over the nation — from Arizona to 
ALUMNUS JULY 1947 AUGUST 

Massachusetts, from Minnesota to 
Pennsylvania. Many of the students 
expect to have their practice inter­
rupted by military service, but most 
of them expect to settle down to the 
permanent practice of law. 
Nineteen of the graduates have 

military commitments and will begin 
active duty this summer or fall; most 
of these will serve as officers, about 
half of them as legal officers. 
Eight graduates will spend one or 

more years as law clerks for federal 
and state judges. Seven are in fed­
eral district courts in Louisiana, 
Indiana, Illinois, Oregon, Michigan 
and Colorado. Paul J. Meyer of 
Illinois will clerk for Justice Walter 
Schaefer of the Illinois Supreme 
Court. 
Three graduates will practice with large metropolitan law firms in New York; two are employed in corporate legal departments and two will con­tinue their education at other tmi­versities. 
Four graduates will work as govern­ment la\vyers. Michael Smith of New York will serve in the Peace Corps in Sierra Leone. Lawrence Fleming of Missouri was employed through the honor graduate program of the De­partment of Justice and will work in the civil rights division. Michael 
J. Fogerty of Indiana will work for the National Labor Relations Board in Indianapolis; and John Fine of New York will be an assistant district attorney in New York City. 
In the June 
NOTRE DAME LAWYER 

Frank M. Covey Jr., "FRAN­CHISING AND THE ANTI­TRUST LAWS: Panacea or Problem?" 
George A. Pelletier Jr., "Legal Aid in France" 
John D. Guilfoil, "Damage De­termination in Private Antitrust Suits" 
Ernest Katin, "GRISWOLD V. CONNECTICUT: The Justices and Connecticut's 'Uncommonly Silly Law'" 
Semiannual Economic Institu­tions and Values Survey: Legal Conflicts Within the Banking In­dustry 
Recent Decision Notes on Lisi v. Alitalia-Linee Aeree Italiane, 2d Cir., 1966, and on Bank of Marin 
V.England, S.Ct., 1966 
Book Reviews by Melvin M. Belli, Francis M. Gregory Jr., and John T. Noonan Jr. 
Honors. Four members of this year's graduating class received cum laude degrees. It was the first time under Dean O'Meara's program that more than one member of any class grad­uated with honors; in fact, only three graduates of the "O'Meara era" have graduated with honors prior to this year. 
The top scholars of the Class of 1967 were Joseph P. Martori Jr. of New York, Paul J. Meyer of Illinois, John G. VValta of South Dakota and Clifford A. Roe Jr. of Ohio. Martori and Roe will enter private practice in their home states. Walta is law clerk for Judge William E. Doyle of tlie US District Court for the District of Colorado. Meyer is law clerk for Justice Walter Schaefer of the Illinois Supreme Court. 
Faculty and Alumni. Prof. Edward J. Murphy's two-volume Contracts Case­book is undergoing revision this year and will be published in 1968 or 1969 in a new format with the collaboration of Prof. Richard E. Speidel of the 
U. of Virginia. Prof. Murphy is a legal advisor to the National Commit­tee on Amish Religious Freedom, notably in connection with legal struggles involving compulsory public education for Amish children. 
Prof. George A. Pelletier Jr. '61, '62L, a member of the law faculty at Southern Methodist U. is the author of "Legal Aid in France" in 
the June Notre Dame Lawyer. An­other alumnus-teacher, Prof. John E. Kennedy '56, '59L of the U. of Kentucky wrote "Federal Rule 17(a) : Will the Real Party in Interest Please Stand?" in the March Minnesota Law 
Review. 
Philip J. Faccenda '51 was recently appointed special assistant to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, a post 
THOMAS• I L 





I Law School
SHAFFER 

that vdU involve work with the ND 
Board of Lay Trustees and the Uni­
versity's advisory councils. Faccenda 
is immediate past president of the 
ND Law Association and was presi­
dent of the ND Alumni Association 
in 1964. He has been practicing law 
in Chicago since his graduation in 
1957 from the Loyola U. School of 
Law. 
Leo B. Ward '20L, a member of 

the Los Angeles Bar, died in April. 
Two senior Aliunni of the Law 

School were honored in recent months. 
John E. Cassidy '17L, a member of 
the Peoria, 111. Bar and of the Law 
Advisory Council, was given a senior 
counsellor award at the annual meet­
ing of the Illinob State Bar Associa­
tion in June. William E. Bradbury 
'16L, was honored by the Crawford 
County (Ind.) Bar Assoc, for his more 
than half a century of l^al practice. 
He remains active in a law firm which 
was founded in 1876. 
Capt James Anthony '64, '65L, 

presendy on the staff of the Army 
Judge Advocate General's School, 
Charlottesville, Va., has been notified 
of assignment this year to Vietnam. 
Thomas Brunner '66L is now in 

graduate school in the department 
of government and international stu­
dies at ND. He and his wife had 
their first child, a daughter, in May. 
James M. Corcoran Jr. '55, '56L is the author of "The Contingent In­surance Trust — A Bonanza for Minor Children," in the March, 1967, Illinois State Bar Journal. He and Thomas L. Shaffer participated in a day-long institute on estate planning in estates of less than $100,000 at the annual meeting of the Illinois State Bar Association in Jime. (Illinois — ND lawyers met for lunch during that meeting and were exposed to further remarks frcnn the visiting teacher.) 



dubs 
6i 
AT CEDAR POINT, OHIO Alumni fun in the'sun 
ACCENT ON SUMMER 
THE emergence of Alumni dialogue 
' as described two issues back has had some interesting reverberations with­in the Alumni Club structure this summer. Half a dozen clubs have organized soirees among Alumni and current students to discuss today's Notre Dame and its student body. The Notre Dame Club of Central New York (Syracuse and environs), under the leadership of President Kevin Ryan, has set the pace for this informal give-and-take among NO generations. First reports indicate the sessions provide important contribu­tions to the continuing education of Alumni and Alumni-to-be. 
The '67 Reunion, in addition to the normal dosage of frivolity, fraternity and nostalgia, had a good measure of pomp and circumstance this year. A colorful parade, complete with Kiltie Band and vintage autos, wound across the campus from hall to hall, collect­ing Alumni bound for the Reunion 

banquet and a testimonial to Jim Armstrong, retiring executive secretary of the Alumni Association. The only disappointment of the evening was expressed by the Class of '57, which had tried valiantly to secure an 'elephant for the proceedings. (Inside word indicates the mammoth in question was tied up laying ground­
work for the '68 election.) 
Sjieaking of groundwork, apparently 
a real treasure lies buried within the 
labyrinthine chambers of Corby Hall. 

James Phelan '17 advised this office in advance of the Reunion that two botties of brandy manufactured by the .Phelan-Curran Corporation's plant located in Industrial Chemistry, Notre Dame, were stashed away in the sub­basement of Corby Hall in 1917. Phelan forwarded a detailed map with an "X" marking the spot in 
• hopes that a maintenance crew might retrieve the cache so the Class of '17 could share a loving cup of 50-year-
old booze on the occasion of its 50th 
Reunion. To the chagrin of all, the 
area in question had been walled up 
lo these many years. The secret is 
sealed until the demolition of Corby, 
scheduled sometime during the year 
2183. 
One of the annual high%hts of summer club activity is the Cedar Point Family Festival on the shores of Lake Erie near Sandusky, Ohio. This year's gathering was attended by about 50 families who came from all over the Midwest to enjoy the full weekend plus many others who came from the Cleveland area to partake of the Saturday festivities. Cedar Point, which is rich in Notre Dame lore as it is the spot where Knute Rockne lifeguarded, has fun for every­one: an amusement park, boat rides and even baby sitters. One of the high points this year was a dance featuring the Glenn Miller Orchestra. 
As the University prepares for an influx of 1600 freshmen this Septem­ber, ND Clubs are organizing the traditional Freshman Sendoff program on the local level. Designed to wel­come the new constituency (freshmen and parents) into the local ND family, the program has grown in popularity. Current students wU act as speakers in many cases this year, representing Student Government, the Honor Council and Campus geographical clubs. Watch for news of your club's function. 
James D. Cooney Assistant Alumni Sec. 
•' ATLANTA 
On Feb. 4 the Club attended the ND-Geoijia Tech basketball game at Tech's Alexander Memo­rial Coliseum. The game marked two fints: ND*s first appearance and the first integrated intercol­legiate basketball game to be played at the Coli­seum. There were 78 members of the Club and friends at a post.game cocktail party. Coach John­nie Dec made a brief appearance and informally discussed the prospects for the year to come. 
In March the Club turned out 84 strong for the festivities of the second annual St. Patrick's Day Party at the Knights of Columbus hall. LOU LONCARIG, Club treas., was largely responsible for the excellent turnout. This is to be an annual affair and, like other annual events, seems to grow each year — from 10 couples in 1966 to 42 in 1967. 
In April 61 Club members and friends, including several high school coaches, viewed the ND Foot­ball Highlights of 1966 as well as 1965 highlights. The occasion was a combined smoker and business meeting and was in in the Carling Brewery Hospi­tality Room. TOSf GROJEAN '60 was elected VP in a three-man race. The other candidates wiere selected to head the Coaches All-American Game Committee (GERALD KEIFER) and placed in charge of the annual family day picnic scheduled for August (PHIL MURRAY). 
May 22 at the Dinkier Plaza, the Club cele­brated UND night. Brother Wilson represented the University and presented "Notre Dame 1967, 1968 and 1969." 
The Club honored PAUL SMITH as the Man of the Year. Paul was honored for his outstanding service to the community and to ND in the Atlanta area. He has and continues to exemplify the spirit of the ND man. 
Future events include the free family picnic for an dues-paying members and an Alumni night get-together wth the players from ND and Michigan State before the Coaches AU-Amencan Football 
Game. 
For infoixnation concerning the activities pT*n"M 
by the Club for the ND-Geoigia Tech Football 
Game to be played in Atlanta Nov. 18, contact 
Dr. ROBERT HOCHMAN at 3186 River He«hts 
Dr., Smrma, Ca., Area Code 404, 436-1904 or 
JIM EICHELBERGER, 1240 National Bank of 
Geoigia Building, Atlanta, Area Code 404, 522-3541. 
—JAMES A. EICHELBERGER. Secretaiy 
BUFFALO We vnsk to express our deepest sympathy to the family of MIKE SHEEDY '35 of Buffalo and Caracas, Venezuela. Mike died in Buffalo Mxf 8 after a short illness. He was plant manager and chief engineer of VoUmer Enterprises of CaTan^f. The ND Alum-Wives have installed these officers: Mrs. Michael Regan Jr., pres.; Mrs. Danid Wakowiak, VP; Mrs. I^ul Carroll, corresponifins sec; Mrs. Daniel Brick, recording sec; 3Iis. Joseph Dunn, trcas. The annual ND night at the races was at Hamburg Raceway July 13. —JAMES E. SEYMOUR. Secretaiy 
BURUNGTON 
The Club held its annual Communion Sunday at 
St. Francis Hospital May 21. Holy Mass was 
offered by Club Chaplain Rev. ARTHUR PERRY 
'52. 
After Afass the Club memben were entertamed 
at a brunch at the home of Dorothy smd JACK. 
DAILEY '27. The Dailcys hosted the brunch 
with their daughter and son-in-law, Joanne and 
BILL BAUER '57. The get-together also oc­
casioned a going-a\vay party for JOHN MUR­
RAY '50 and his family who mil be moving to 
Racine, Wis. in July. 
Because of the expense of the present for the Murrays, Lucy Riley, wife of HaroM '27 and Club treasurer, reported her treasury was depleted. This was the Rrst reported deficit in the ten years of the Club's history. 
The following Alumni and their wms were present: Marianna and VERN BRINCK '48, Mary and ED DAILEY '33. Jane and DICK DELANEY '37, Bonnie and LOUIS LAUTH Jr. '45, Miry and ROLAND MARTEL '43, Ann and JOHN O'NEIL '52, Sue and JOE RIDGE '53, Mary and WALLY WEINRICH '23. 
—REV. ARTHUR R. PERRY, 
Secretary 
^^ ^ CENTRAL JERSEY ^^ ^ 
The annual dinner dance of the Club was April 22 at the -Pbinfield Country Club. JACK MOR­RISON '43 and FRANK DOOLEY '56 acted as co-chairmen of the affair and were aided by BILL DEGNEN who furnished several excellent draw­ings of campus scenes as a setting for the dinner. 
The final event of the Club's year was the annual golf outing and dinner which was held on June 8 at Fiddler's Elbow Country Qub, Bed-minster, NJ. JOE SADOFSKI '57 was rhairman of the affair which is always one of the most enjoyable of the Club's activities. 

The Club is trying to organize a charter flight for the Georgia Tech game in Atlanta in the fall. For the 6nt time In several years there will be no game in the East and members agreed that the Atlanta trip would be a deurable alternative. 
—HOWARD J. GILLESPIE "34, 
VP, Public Relations 
CHICAGO 

Retiring officers and directors were honored at the Club's annual testimonial dinner June 14 at Johnny Lattner*s Steak House in Chicago. 
New members of the board were introduced and the following new ofliceis conducted their first meeting: Pres. ANTHONY G. GIROLAMI '43, 1st VP JOSEPH J. ARCHIBALD JR. '50, 2nd VP KENNETH R. SCHUSTER '49, Sec. PATRICK 
J. MONTROY '53, Treas. JOSEPH L. RIGALI JR. '51. Honorary Pres. will be J. PAUL FOGARTY '17 and the new chaplain is Very Rev. Msgr. JAMES V. MOSCOW '34, asdstant director of hospitals for the Archdiocese of Chicago. 
Those elected to the board of governors for three-year terms are WILLIAM E. CAHILL JR. '58, JAMES W. DIGAN '29, HARVEY G. FOSTER '39, LOUIS B. GARIPPO '52, ARCH 
F. GOTT '37, GERARD C. SPECHT '49 ami EDMUND A. STEPHAN JR. '61. The ex-officio members of the board of govemois, named for one-year terms, are WILLIAM D. REYNOLDS '54 and PAUL PETRAITIS '67. 
aNONNAlt 
DREW BARTON ii chainnan at tfce nanal soH 
outing at Bjde Ai k Coontir Oab near the cad af 
July. 
Notre Dame Bresident Rer. THECHX)IE U . 
HESBURGH CSC made the 1967 Maa of dw 
Year awaid to PAUL F. KELLEY. ha ! m m 
xonner piuiucnt and currently a' trmtto oC tao 
Qub. 
The 1967 icholanlup award went to Bob BaAaia 
of St. Xavier B« b SchooL We kaow Bob will 
continue to cany on the fine tn£tiaa el giituim 
There were mote than 120 due»pa]niK i 
last year, but we hope to add to tUi 

tba year. We hope to tee many at the Fn 
PSauc, ao keep the fint Tnodxy or JO of September 

open. 
Let la an tiy to attend a meetias or aa affur. 

We eq>ect to have many enjoyable things jhaawl 
lor aU. 
—MICHAEL L. MORRISSEY. Secretary . 
OEVBAND 

Congiatnlations to FRED S. NAEGELE '48, oar 
retiring prendent, for his many successful fuai linat 
in the past year. Thank yoo, Fred! 
RICHARD A. VaaAUKEN '57 was dccted 

preddent at our amiiial election meetiag Ifay 18 
at the Sheraton^CIeveland HoteL Abo dccted 
were VICTOR J. GULYASSY '42, VP; KENYON 
F. SNYDER '50, sec. and F. JOCHAEL OT^EIIX '61, treas. 
Appointed offices were aimbnnced by ntcs. VanAuken. They inchide Honorary Vta. JOHN 
A. FENOTE '33 and the Board of Timteet, WILLIAM R. DALEY and JOHN P. MDRFHY. 
The Board of Governors will indnde Ahnani See. JOHN P. COYNE '55; Scholarship Commit­tee, CLAYTON G. LEROUX '27; FoundatiaB Ch. Robert E. Dowd '41; Investment Ch. Joseph 
E. Sotak '40; Cedar Ftoint Chaiimen RICHARD 
H. MILLER (Hon. Ch.) '55 and JOHN K. McGUntE '48; Family Kcnic Chairmen, JAMES CANNY Jr. '57 and JOHN L. HUMMER '57; Golf Day Chaiimen GEORGE J. DURKIN '56 and P. E. MdNTYRE '61; Hnd>and and Wife Retreat Ch. GEORGE G. KERVER '22; Sduibr­ship Fund Raflk Chairmen PATRICK J. CAN­NON '55 and THOMAS A. CORRIGAN '57; Rockne Award Diimer Chaiimen JAMES F. ROOGERS '49 and ROBERT J. LALLY '50; Christmas Dance Chaiimen JOSEPH H. MAWBY. '58 and RILEY MILLER '59; UND Night Ch. FRED S. NAEGELE '48. Chaplain for the Chib is Rt. Rev. ibgr. Edwaid V. Sewaid. 
Hononry Ch. DICK MILLER '55 and Ch. 

JOHN McGUIRE '48 planned the festive wedk­
end at Cedar Point July 7-9. 
The Family -FScnic, usually in August at Gibaoor 

Academy, was held in conjimctkm with the 
Cedar Point Weekend July 8. A pavilion for ND 
men and tfaor families was reserved and re­
freshments were saved. 
The Husband and Wife Retieat irill be July 28, 

29 and 30 at the Fatima Retreat House on the 
campus of ND. GEORGE KERVER '22, Ch. 
of the Retreat, announced there win also he a 
second Husband and Wife Retreat scheduled {or 
the week of the Michigan State game. 
The Annual Golf Fiuty will be at the Westwood 

Country Club July 31. 
—JOHN P. COYNE 
Alumni Secretaiy 

'COLOMBIA^ The Club celebrated VJiD Night .with a fnner May 19. Duiing this <finner CAMILO ARCt-NIEGAS '64 was_ elected treasurer of the ChA. A yearly contribution for the espeiues of the Chb was established. 
—ERNESTO GUHL, Secretary 

^ ^ COLORADO SPRINGS ^^ 
The Club held its annual business meeting April 7 at the home of tm. MAL WAKIN. Followii« the "1966 Notre Dame Foodiall Highfight^ fibn, the new officezs were elected. 
They are: PTes. JOSEPH REICH Jr. '57, VP RAY BUBICK '54, Sec GEORGE GAUTHIER '62, Chaplain Fr. FRANK J. GILCHRIST (Lt. Col., USAF). 
Those attending the meeting were CHARLIE LOUGHRY '33, TOM DONOVAN '56. DAVE SHEETS '63, ROBERT. MAIER MD '57, JOE REICH '57, GEORGE GAUTHIER '62, MAL WAKIN '52, RAY BUBICK '54, OTTO HIL­BERT '54, CHARLIE SPICKA '54 and JOHN FAGAN '71. ­
—GEORGE J. GAUTHIER. Secretary 

ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 
DALLAS-FORT WORTH: 
The Dallas Club was the scene of the UND 
Night banquet Apr. 6. In attendance were ap­
proximately 65 Alumni and ^vives of the Dallas-
Ft. Worth area. Featured speaker was Bro. 
Raphael Wilson CSC, dir. of admissions at the 
University-. He discussed the methods used in 
screening student applications and the great changes 
thit are taking place on the campus. Rt. Rev. 
Msgr, William F. O'Brien, chaplain of the Club, 
presented the "Man of the Year* award to Dr. 
LLOYD C. BELLAMY, prominent Dallas dentist 
and father of three bo>"s. 
Outgoing president JOHN ROGERS introduced 
the new officers: GEXE KERVIX '58, prcs.; ED 
FLEMLXG '63 and BOB WILLIAMS '59, VPs; 
JOHN ROXAN '56, trcas.; LARRY BEDFORD 
'57, sec. 
-Coming events of interest include a summer party and the back-to-school smoker, where filmed Iiighlights of the 1966 National Champions will draw an overflow crowd. 
—L.MIRY BEDFORD, Secretary 
= DEARBORN 
At the general business meeting April 7 at the 
home of BILL DE CRICK the following new 
officers were elected: BOB MISSEL, pres.; 
CL.AYTOX GLASGOW, VP; LARRY BEAUPRE, 
scc-trcas. Directors of the Club to scn'c through 
1969-70 were also named: GERRY CASS, 
CHARLIE KITZ and JERRY KELLY. 
PETE PRICE hosted the May meeting and was 
co-chairman with ED C.\WI of the Family ncnic 
June 25. 
CHARLIE KITZ was presented the past pres­
ident's plaque at the Communion Breakfast Klay 
21. Charlie was chairman of the Hiram-Walker 
tour and dinner planned for mid-summer. —LARRY BE.AUPRE, Secretary 

^^^ ^ DECATUR, ILL. ^^^ ^ 
Golfers in the Club enjoyed the annual outing and dinner at the Country Club of Decatur June 6. Prircs were aw^ardcd based on handicaps calculated by the Country Club Pro. Non-golfers joined the rest of the group for cocktaib and steak afterward. 
:DENVER 
EDWARD liL^HONEY «ill head the Club for the coming year. Other new officers are RAYMOND DELUCA, VP: C.\RL SKIFF, sec; JOHN BRUNO, treas.; J.-\MES COUGHLIN, scliolarship, and PHILIP CL.\RKE, foundation. New directors are J.\MES SHEEIL\N, LEON ARCHER, JOHN DELINE, JAMES HILGER and ROBERT ZEIS. 
With the cooperation of Creath Fletcher at Burlington, the Club is planning a trip to the ^lichigan State game Oct. 28. This will be a nationally tcle\*ised game, but most people want to try to make the trip anyiray. TOM GARGAN and RICK BRUNO are making the arrange­ments. 
The Club picnic was June 24 at Cresttnoor Pool. DICK Mcit^NUS and ED JL^HONEY took care of the reservations. 
DETROIT 
Elections were recently held to fill \-acancies in the Board of Directors. D.ANIEL J. KELLY '57 and JOHN ANHUT '44 were reelected directors. TERRENCE E. KE.\TING '60, ROBERT F. RONEY '56, and J.AMES N. MOTSCHALL '39 were also elected directors. ROBERT W. BOGG '57 was appointed to fill an unexpired term. 
The new pres. of the Club is LOU BOSCO '58. First VP is DANIEL J. KELLY '57; Second VP is TOM MOORE '58. XIIKE HEG.ARTY '55 was elected sec and ROBERT BOGG '57 was elected treas. 
The elections were announced at the UN D Night Dinner hosted by LOU B.\SSO '53. C. JL "MARCE" VERBIEST, the outgoing pres., gave an inspiring talk and put on a good show as his Swan Song after a very successful year. 
MIKE VOSS headed up the annual golf party this year. —UnCHAEL K. HEG.ARTY, Secretary 
= ENGLAND' 
DO.VALD C. LUECK '50 is now the president of the ND Qub of England. He will be happy to hear from anyone who wants to help get things going there. His home address is 99 Eaton Ter^ race, London, S.W. 1, England. 
E8 
•' FUNT, MICH. ^^^ ^ 
Coach Ara Parscghian wus the guest speaiker at 
the 23rd Annual A\v-ard Dinner Meeting May 9 
at the IMA Main Auditorium in Flint, following 
a reception that was sponsored by the ND Club 
of Flint. 
Coach Parseghian spoke about youth and the 
good deeds they do and said the bad things are 
all you hear or sec. 
There were more than 1000 people attending 
this annual affair and Coach Parseghian was 
very impressed with the Big Brothers of Greater 
Flint and Genesee County. 
—WILLIAM F. MINARDO, 
Secretary and Treasurer 
^^^ ^ FT. LAUDERDALE ^^^ ^ 
PETE BARSKIS arranged the annual Club goU 
outing June 23 at Plantation Golf Club. Golf, 
SH^mming, dancing and a bufFct were included 
along wiUi tlic prizes. Guests and ladies were 
invited. 
The annual convention is still uppermost in the 
conversation for those \vho attended. In all 53 
members, guests and ladies wvrc on hand and 
enjoyed every minute. The fishing events wrcre 
easily won by the brothers McGINN, FRANK and 
JOHN, BOB GORE and Harry Freidman. The 
margin that separates fiction from truth is very 
narrow. BILL DAILEY beat all surrounding 
'Waters to a froth but failed to nuse the first 
"keeper." 
The golf tournament ^x'as won by Pires. 
CHARLEV RUDD. It's also to be noted that 
Mr. Rudd was acting as assistant convention 
chairman and as golf chairman. He also just 
finished a novena to Saint Judc for this %nn. 
The Club welcomes RAPHAEL (RAY) M. 
KELLY *6I. Ray was voted in last meeting. The 
Club also welcomes the following assodate 
members: John T. Cooney Jr., VP Umvis Corp.; 
Bob Miller, station mgr., WFTL, Ft. Lauderdak; 

James C. Woulfc, MD, FACS, surgeon and 
director. Plantation General Hosp. 
A new high was reached this year in high 

school graduates expressing a more than passing 
dedre to attend the University. BOB GORE 
interviewed more than 20 applicants and in his 
meeting report stated all were outstanding students. 
Nothing else exciting from this comer of the 

world. Wc arc trying to keep cooL Temp, at 
this writing is 93 in the shade. 
—GEORGE J. ERNST. Secretary 

^^^^ INDIANAPOUS ^^^^ 
Newly elected officers arc WILLIAM K. Mc-
GOWAN JR. '57. pres.; JAMES L. SHEERIN 
'51, VP; LEO C. McNAMARA JR. '50, sec; 
RICHARD K. OWENS M2, treas. 
Recent activities included the annual stag outing June 6 at Moynahan's Shack. TOM MOYN.AHAN '60 was the host and chairman of this event. BILL SAHM '51 w:is in charge of the charcoal hamburgers and beer while JOE BILL '56 was athletic director for the horseshoe, baseball and golf contests. Dr. JIM CROSSIN '60 was medical director and \vns assisted by SID BAKER '66. 
The annual Golf Outing will be at the High­land Golf & Country Club Thursday, Aug. 3. TOM O'BRIEN '53 wiU be chairman of this big event. Klany guests are expected to vie for the honors. The guest speaker hadn't been lined up as of this writing. 
—LEO C. McNAMARA JR., Secretary 
KENTUCKY = 

Spring ushered in a new slate of officers and had a few interesting highlights for members of our Oub. Officers for '67-'68 are ROBERT HUETZ '58, pres.; JACK ZUFELT '57, 1st VP; JOSEPH 
F. DONALDSON '23, 2nd VP; GERRY BOLAND '63, sec; DON MOSER '56, treas. New directon are MARION J. HEFFERNAN '28 and BILL H. BOSLER '41. 
JOHN A. HUBBUCH '61 was dected Pres. of the Louisville Jaycees, an organization of 500 young businessmen. The Kentucky May primary brought ROMANO L. MAZZOLI '54 the can­didacy for the State Senate representing the 5th District, comprising aljout half the dty of Louis­ville. Congratulations to both. 
In July the Club holds its annual outing with the Xavier Club, but hopes to add the Dayton Club as a third partner in the triumvirate. BOB ECKLAND '59 has the chairmanship. 
The' ND Club marched in Louisville's annual Corpus Cbristi procession, led by WILUAM A. REISERT m '58 as chairman. 
The Club has been la^ang plans for an acdve summer, hoping then to have more to leport. —GERRY BOLAND '63, Secretary 
=LANSING^ 
The Club has taken a significant step this year in beginning the CLEMENT E. McFARLANE Scholarship Fund in honor of our first Club pres. and staunchcst supporter. At our UN D Night Dinner, a check for J250 was presented to JAMES 
E. COONEY, asst. Alumni sec., to take back to the University to set up this fund. 
To perpetuate this scholarship, the Board of Directors has earmarked 25 percent of all dues to be put directly in this fund. In addition to this, we arc asking each member to strongly consider an annual contribution to the Clement £ . Mc-Farlane Scholarship Fund. 
—MIKE BYRNE, Treasurer 
^^^ ^ LOS ANGELES _ 
At the March 16 annual business meeting the 
following Directors were elected for a three-year 
term: GENE CALHOUN. JIM GILLIS. JACK 
MORRIS, CLAY SMITH and JACK STEWART. 
The current Club officers will complete their 
two-year terms on UND Night 1968. Since Clay 
Smith has returned to Indianapolis, the nominee 
who received the next greatest number of votes, 
BILL DILLHOEFFER, has been asked to fill the 
vacanc)' on the Board. 
The Club has started a scholarship trust fund at 
the University for a Los Angeles area boy. Un­
fortunately, we wTcre able to open the account 

with only $4,000 but we hope it will quickly 
grow. Since only the interest on the principal 
(approximately five percent on $4,000 or $200 

per year) is used, it isn't a great deal of help 
in offsetting an annual cost of approximately 
$2,500 for room, board and tuition. It \nll 
probably be September of 1968 before we can 
even partially underwrite a student. The first of 
these scholarship awards will be in honor of the 
late MORT GOODMAN. 
I was back at the University when I received 

irord that LEO WARD '20 had died April 29, 
and as a result we were unable to promptly get 
this information to the Alumni. Leo was a past 
president of the LA Club and Man of the Year. 
He ser\-ed a term as National Alumni Board 
director from '48 to '50, and was president of 
the Board in 1950. He was a great friend of ND 
and ynU be badly missed. 
Current events in the LA Club included the 

Stag Sports Night at Schlitz BreWery in Van 
Nuys June 22, a cocktail party for wves on one 
of the Long Beach Harbor cruise boats July 15 
and a golf tournament at Los Coyotes Country 
Club m Buena Park July 13. JACK STEWART 
is m charge of setting the sailing date for an 
At^ust fishing trip. 
Congratubtions to TOM CREHAN '56 and 

Catherine Ann Mahan who were married May 13 
in a beautiful wedding at St. Anthony's in Long 
Beach. I'm told sc\-cral people are still at the 
reception. 
JACK GOURMAN '49, MA '52 and currently a Prof, at San Fernando Valley State Col. has authored a hook entitled **The Gourman Report" in which his 10 years of research has developed empirical data rating undergraduate programs of 1200 US colleges and universities. The book was released May 8 and I understand ND stands up very well in comparison to other universities. 
—TOM POWERS, President 

^^ ^ GREATER MIAMI . 
The June 1 meeting of the Club was a forerunner of the excitement being generated here in Miami for the Nov. 24 clash between the "Fighting Irish" and the "Hurricanes" of Xfiami. Our guest was Charlie Tate, Afiami's head coach. Members and guests attending were treated to some lively discussion and comments on the "game of the year." As an added attraction the film "1965 Football Highlights" was viewed. 
The Club is preparing to welcome the many viston to the Greater Kliami Area for the Tfaank^ving holiday weekend. We have reserved 300 rooms at the Deauville Hotel, M'lami Beach. When maldng your reservations with the Deauville Hotel, please request accommodations held by the N D Club of Greater Miami. This offer for reservations cannot be assured after Nov. 1. 
Thanlogiving Eve at the Deauville Hotel we will hold our "Pep Rally—Miami Style." We wUl have notable guest speakers, cocktails and dancing. We will also have airK»nditioncd buses from the Deaunlle Hotel to the Orange Bowl. Round trip tickets wiU be ^IJO. We suggest it is not too early to plan this weekend now as there will be many fans in our town for the Ihliami Dolphins-Buffalo Bills game Sunday, Nov. 26. 
—L. NICHOLAS MUELHAUPT, Secretary 

MONROE, MICH. 
Fottrtecn memben of the Club met May 15 to 
plan future activities. We thought this was a 
fine tiumout for a small club. 
' We are hoping to have the film ''Highlights of 
ND Football 1966" in late August and invite the 
new students and their parents. 
A scholarship fund las been established for a 
Monroe boy to attend ND and we are making 
plans to raise more money for this fund. 
Pres. HUGH LAUGHNA reported on the ND 
Club Pk'esidents Conference in early May. 
—ROBERT H. MAURER, Secretary 
NEW JERSEY 
The final affair of this year was the golf outing 
and annual meeting at Essex County Country 
Club June 13. JOE BYRNE was the chairman. 
Before the end of hts term, Pres. JAMES A. 
SEBOLD JR. *50 called a meeting of officers and 
directors to discuss the reorganization of the club 
with an eye toward getting the younger members 
to he more active. 

^^^^ NEW MEXICO ^^^^ 
WILLIAM B. BENEDICK '54, a past pres. of 
the Club, was recently named a Knight of Galilee 
by Archbishop George Hakim of Galilee in Israel. 
He and four other Catholics in this area were 
cited "in gratitude for devotion toward the Holy 
Land and for services given to Galilee." 
Fr. LOUIS A. BARCELO CSC was chosen fay 
Archbishop Hakim to bestow the awards in his 
name. Bill is the head of a local organization 
called the ^'Friends of Galilee** which raises funds 
for the area and otherwise assists the archbishop In 
his w'ork. 
GALLUP *N* INDIANS. The town that 
ROBERT C. BUTLER '51, THOMAS M. 
CARMODY M5 and '48 and JOHN R. SCANLON 
'27 call home is preparing for the 46th Inter-
Tribal Ceremonial Aug. 10-13. This annual 
fcsti\*al finds thousands of Indians gathering to see 
and show their arts and crafts. Dancing, ancient 
rituals, sfiorts, parades and a rodeo add to the 
fun and excitement. 
Have you heard about the picnic? 
—LARRY O'CONNELL, Secretary 
SAN JOSE 
The highlights of the '66 season were viewed at 
a Club smoker in May. 
The annual Club golf tournament was June 4 at 
Oak Ridge Golf Club in San Jose. 
Co-chairmen for the Sumina Fund Drive have 
been chosen for the San Jose area. They are 
BERT MILLEN (present club pres.) and TED 
SOBIERALSKI '54, Club secretary. 
ED CLEARY '43, a member of the Club board 
of directors, has been moved to Tulsa, Okla. by 
his employer, GE. Wc wish Ed well on Ins new 
assignment. 
—ED SOBIERALSKI, Secretary 
NEW YORK CITY 
For the past six montlis the Board of Directors has 
bccjf liammcring out a constitution which will 
eliminate the divisional setup now existing in the 
Club and substitute in its place an organization 
fully representative of the unity to whiclx New 
York City and its environs arc entitled. 
At the general membership meeting in the 
Waldorf Astoria May 22, special guests were John 
Ray, defensive Hnc coach, and James Cooney, 
osst. Alumni sec 
The Club presented the JACK L.WELLE Trophy, in memory- of the late ND guard and New York Giants scout, to the winning Catholic high school team in the city CYO golf tourney. 
= ROCHESTER, N.Y. 
Thanks to Chairman DAVE MILLER '55 and his lovely frau Mary Lou for all their work toward the success of UND Night May 11 at Eddie's Chop House. Coach John Ray's remarks were so informative and entertaining that one N D veteran remarked, '*With the exception of Rockne, that was the greatest football talk I've ever heard." Their optimism rampant, JOHN CASEY '55, VIC DISIMON '46 and ARNIE MORRISON '35 were seen negotiating wagers at a local cigar store during dessert. 
VIN DOLLARD '39 graciously received the Man of the Year Award, which was presented by Toastmastcr JERRY FLYNN '40 (who was sim­ilarly honored last year). Outgoing Pres. BILL O'TOOLE '39 introduced the Club officers for 
ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 
the coming vear: ROY HANNA pres., GENE 
YimCEALITIS VP and BOB SKIPWORTH 
treas. Upon the advice of his attorney, TOTE 
CONNOLLY, the new treasurer, immeifiatdr 
referred the treasurer's report to the CoantT 
District Attorney. 
ROY HANNA's better half, Teny, presented _s 
check from the Woman's Club to the Scholanhip 
Fund, which has been so successful under the 
aegis of CHARLIE (Buy Low-Sell High) 
O'BRIEN. 
Yours truly spent the evening as referee between 
old '54 classmates ED YOHON from Eastman 
Kodak and DICK RYAL, an emigre fanm 
Detroit representing Xertuc, which never comes vp 
with anything original. 
—BOB DEWEY '54, SecreisT 
= ROME^ 
OUR ND HOSPirALITY CENTER AT LARGO 
BRANCACCIO 82 (NEAR RAIL-AIR TERMI­
NAL) IS OPEN EVERY DAY FROM NOON 
TO NINE. TEL: 730.002. WELCOME! 
Latest new memben: Lt. PHILIP DUR USN 
'fi5, stationed at new US 6TH Fleet HQ at 
Gaeta together with his wife Kathleen SMC '66, 
and another bdy member, Mrs. Sergio Giovannini, 
daughter of the late JOHN S. HUMMER '90! 
Honeymooning through Rome en route to bis 
new position with US Government AID in East 
Pakistan were our former Rome member HUGH 
T. MURPHY '59 and bride. 
And the perpetual guest parade into our hospital­
ity center includes: Rev. JOSEPH HALEY CSC 
'37; Rev. WILLIAM MCAULIFFE CSC "37; 
BOB MARUCKI '69; GENE RAU '33 with wife 
and family; L. CHEPLEAU, University attorney; 
JAMES CONMEY '28; WILLIAM HICKEY '42; 
DAVE CAPPELLETTI '64; FRANK READY '30 
and wife; ANTHONY DE BAGGIS '51 and wife; 
Fathers ROBERT HESSE and ROBERT 
MALONE; Lt. RICHARD McCARTHY (USN) 
'64; DAN O'NEIL '25; Dr. PATRICK BARRETF 
'51 and wife; mother of ROBERT BAUCHMAN 
'42 (son JOHN '68) with daughter; widow of 
H.AROLD NOONAN '34; ART CAREY '35 with 
wife SMC '41 (son TOM '69, daughter RAM 
SMC '70, brother ED '34). 
JIM WHITE '28 and wife; MICHAEL CON­
NOR '60 with wife SMC '65; J. KIRWAN '28 
with wife; ROBERT EMMETT LEE '49 and 
wife; GE.\E O'ROURKE '25; Fr. JEREMIAH 
PURTILL '37; PATRICK SHEA '39 with wife, 
SMC '41; CHARLES BRAGG '35; FRANK 
LUXDY '55 and wife; parents of JIM BODARY 
'69; J.AMES BOYLE '51; sister-in-law of JOHN 
PALEN '61; JAMES CONWAY '42, with wife 
SMC '45; JACK MURRAY '57 with wife SMC 
'58; parents of GEORGE GRUNLEY '67; brother 
of DON TURK '53 and JOE '55. 
Jf.M FRITSCH '« ; mother of JOHN 
O'ROURKE '45, JAMES '48, ERWARD '49 
(grandson JOHN '69); mother of JOSEPH 
TAAFFE '45: mother of FR. WILLIAM 
FL.\HERTY '64; Rev. EUGENE JARCYRSKI 
CSC (US.-\F) '51; WILLIAM FFTZGERALD '23 
and wife. Finally wc had the "Fighting Irish" tour 
led by BOB GAHILL '34 ("Mr. Tickets," no less) 
and wife. 
MEMO: Romccomcrs should keep in mind 
that if they wish to see PAUL VI '60, they will 
have to be in Rome on a Wednesclay (P^pal 
Audience 11 am) or on a Sunday (Papal Blessing 
at noon). 
—VIXCE McALOON '34, Secretary 
^^ ^ SAGINAW VAUEY MICHIGAN 
Recent activities included a Communion Breakfast at St. Boniface Church (TOM CARROLL was chairman), UND Night Dinner with movies of the last football season and dancing (TOM MURPHY was chairman) and the golf outing with a cookout at CARL DONZAN's cottage at Kellomey Beach. 
—H. B. McGEE, Secretary 

^^ ^ SAN DIEGO, CAUF. ^^ s 
The club ofEcers for the forthcoming year are as follom: CHARLES V.ANDEGRIFT '56, pres.; CLEMENT J. O'NEILL '56, VP; CLASSEN J. GRAMM '63, membership sec.; NICHOLAS A. KRALL '54. corresponding sec.; DONALD G. YECKEL '55, treas., and Rev. FRANCIS C. OTT '15, chaplain. 
^^ ^ SPOKANE, WASH. ^^ ^ 
Club members gathered May 24 at the home of Pres. Dr. DEE J. McGONIGLE '52 to hear his report on the Club Presidents' meeting at ND. 
A l pracBt tbond the report ^u y : 
sevenl snDjccts nentioBni pfowoscd 
aoa. It was legieHnl lt«t BH R of tW i 
£ d not attend. 
The Cbb win wJcet two new : 
wmnrr. DAVE BATTLE "CZ i 
Gheyemie, wyo. to continue k i 
tcctore and DICK MOOTZ 'S9 ha* bcentnaf 
lemd to Spokane by Kaiier Abanina Co. 
—JOE WALSH 1 ^ Sce-Xnaa. 
itOUEDO' 
Officcn for the 19S7-19a year arc TOM WELLY 
'S5, praident; JOStS SGHMDIT '33, VP; JOHN 
STOEPLER '33. Sec; DALE LEKOUX 'SS, 
treas. 
Memben of the Board al Diccctoti are: JOBS 
CELUSTA 'SO. ch.; Dr. JOHN KELLEHEK 
'40; JOE SANTOS '37; PAUL KKAUS '3« and 
'57; JIM SILK '33; JOE KALBAS 'SS; and 
BLAINE WILEY '57, hnnetfiate past paes. 
TUtSA 
On May 9 the Cbb held its obKnrance of UttD N^ t at The Cop Cbb with Tons hgna briag the feattued guest and speaker. The nMeling was delayed to that date since Tom was busy nntil the previoia weekend with spring football piactice. The observance ooincided with oar annual Lac&s' Night. AU who attended — there we n 6B — enjoyed a fine steak dinner following coicktmls and then were entertained by the penoiaBty and COB­ments of the gtaest qieaker. 
Among those attending, with thar biEes, weie 
BfARION BLAKE, BERNARD R. CARNEY, 
JOHN A. CHARON, JOHN W. CONDON. 
GERRY DONOVAN, DONALD HANISCH. 
JOHN J. JOYCE, GAVIN KING, ROBERT 
KRUPPS, JOSEPH A. LaPORTUNE JR., W. E. 
LEROUX, JOHN G. MADDEN. PAT MALLOY 
(who also served as toastmaster), GEORGE MIL. 
LER, JOSEPH P. MORAN JR., FEL K PARK 
JR., HUGH SCHAEFER, FARRIS SAFFA. BILL 
SAFFA, CARL SENGER, WILLIAM N. SHEE­
HAN, BARNEY SULLIVAN, WILLIAM K. 
WARREN JR., JERRY WOOD, JOHN DIVER 
and JOHN EDWARDS, as well as John F. 
Donovan and Lotus Rheinberger, both of whom 

are parents of students or an Almnmw. Farther, 
the Club enjoyed hostiiig Sam fogna and his 
wife, I^t. Sam is a brother of Tom and;is a 

Tuba resident. 
Future plans include a family i»cmc this sun-mer and most members are actively prepinng for the coming Summa effort. Finally, the Qab proudly announces that its annual scholarship grant, amounting to a four<year financial asastance grant to the recipient, was awarded thu year to Lawrence Collings, a graduate of Tuba Memorial HS. Larry is the 18th boy from the Tulsa area to be awarded a similar grant since the program was inaugurated by the Club. 
—"BARNEY" SULLIVAN. President 
UTAH 

The Club met in Salt Lake City May 17 to 
view the film "1966 FootbaU HighCghts." 
About 20 Alumni attended the meeting with their wives. There was a short business meeting and social hour. 
Upcoming plans were discnissed indoding a '^Freshman Send-off*' in August and a group trip to Logan, Utah in Deccxi^>er to attend the ND­OSU basketball agme. 
—W. R. POGUE, Sec-Treasurer 

J VIRGINIA t With the electioa of new oScea (Jexiy Owings, pres., and Frank Wallmeyer, VP, the Club with a s^irfc of youth heads for an active year of rounded activities. The first event for oar new officers was the annual family picnic Jime 17. A Southern barbecued chicken dinner was prepared by oar own BOB McSWEENEY, "DOC" SETTER and BERNIE NIERLE. Handling the games and children activities were ALEX and BILL M o MURTRIE, JOE LANGE, "DOC" RiLEY. JACK FARLEY and BILL BURCH. The freshman send-off will be in Almost. TUs event has been a great morale boaster and oar main purpose ts to acquaint the new students with the current stialents and recent graduates. The president of the campus Washington-Bfaxyland-Virginia Club will extend the offidal weloane. CHARLIE SCHIECKERT, CHARLIE LA FKAT­TA. DOC KELLY, FRANK STUMPF and CHARLIE MORRISON manage this activity «nth supramundane grandenr. —GORDON SUTLIFF. Sccretaty 
a 



Sports 
BOB CAHILL The price you pay for being champs. 
A Sale Gone Berserk 
A BOUT 8:30 every inoming this sum­" mer in the University's Athletic Offices, Robert Cahill '34 launches into another day of coping with a dis­proportionate problem in supply and demand: How to dole out what seems like a minuscule number of football tickets for what actually is a fright­fully immense demand. 
The day's first mail also arrives about the same time. A preliminary sorting finds most of the envelopes -headed for routine processing—sort­ing, numbering, duplicating, more sorting, etc. But also each morning wt h uninterrupted regularity a hand­ful of envelopes filters to the surface requiring personalized, non-routine treatment. This is Cahill's fan mail, mostly from Alumni and parents, whose missives carry a special message to the affable ticket manager . . . something having to do with the re­turn of applications and checks. 
An over-the-shoulder glimpse quick­ly tells one that Cahill has got to pos­sess the optimism of a fund raiser, the 
diplomacy of an alumni director and 
the downright earthy logic of a head 
counter—a;ll wrapped up into one 
man and illustriously called a "ticket 
manager." 
A case in point was the note from one alumnus-parent who told Cahill, "I'm really in dire need of tickets this year." He went on to explain, "my oldest son wll be starting his fresh­man year this fall and my other chil­dren will definitely want to attend the games. .. . I do feel that my loyalty to ND is above the average alumnus and should be given consideration, particularly when ND is playing Michigan State." The Basic Dilemma. With a good deal of thought and writing Bob personally has answered hundreds of similar pleas explaining the University's di­lemma of having a fixed seating ca­pacity while trying to accommodate a continually growing parent and Alum­ni group. 
Opened in 1930 with a capacity of 56,979 the stadium handled a student enrolhnent of 3,200, an Alumni body of 5,000 and a season ticket sale of 2,700. Today there are more than 7,000 students (whose parents receive preference ticket applications), an Alumni body near 43,000, and season ticket holders that number 22,500; and the stadium still seats 57,000. 
"Back in the old days," as Bob en­joys noting, "even when dues-paying Alumni were permitted eight pre­ferred seats and unlimited additional tickets . . . the only people who didn't sit between the 35-yard lines were known smallpox carriers." 
Cahill's collection of peeves has in­creased markedly this year, corre­sponding with the over\vhehning in­terest that a national collegiate foot­ball championship team attracts. 
"In my 27th year on this job," Bob readily acknowledges, "even I miser­ably underestimated the incredible re­sponse to all of our games from con­tributing Alumni and parents of our students," 
Other notes are sent to Cahill with divergent approaches. Some are terse and unassuming, such as the letter from one alumnus who asked quite frankly, "How many Alumni contrib­ute as much to ND as I do? If you expect contributions, I expect tickets." 
Another complained of being caught "in the stampede of johnnie-come­latelies." He explained, "(When I was at ND) it was difficult to draw a cor­poral's guard to some of the games. To be pushed aside by the mob fol­lowing a champion is not easy to take." 
And there are still others whose ap­proach borders on the unusual. One such example was from a person who will be making a retreat at the Fatima 

House on campus the weekend of the 
Michigan State game. Using this as 
his basis, he appealed to Cahill to re­
consider his application. Bob lauded 
the man's plans but concluded, 
"worthy as attendance at a weekend 
retreat is, it can scarcely be consid­
ered as a basis for exception." And 
the check was returned. 
What about Bob's own friends and 
classmates? How do they fare when 
they feel the pinch for tickets? Bob, a 
little annoyed, answered, "What 
friends? I'm beginning to wonder if 
I still have classmates. Gee, they write 
me after having received their checks 
and tell me to put jjersonal feelings 
aside and start treating them like 
anonymous alumni." 
Another Natural. Most other schedules 
would have provided some relief in 
obtaining tickets. But Notre Dame's 
1967 slate is another natural attention 
getter .. . and for Bob Cahill, another 
natural headache. 
Since last November, everyone has been pointing to the return "battle of the century" bet\veen the Fighting Irish and the Spartans from Michi.sjan State. Before ticket applications were even printed, requests for more than 10,000 tickets had already been accu­mulated in the Cahill office. With this as an indication of bigger things to come. Bob long in advance declared there would be no public sale of tick­ets for that game. 
Both ND and MSU ticket officials announced that lotteries would be held to determine who would receive tickets. At the University, Cahill's office actually held three lotteries with applications received by the close of business June 20. The first was for monogram winners who had requested 817 tickets from a 364 limit. The sec­ond lottery was for Alumni who ap­plied for better than 18,500 tickets from an available 10,000 seats. And, lastly, a drawing was held for the par­ents whose group asked for 8,000 tick­ets from an allotted 4,000. The net result, in addition to having some dis­appointed Alumni and parents, was the return of more than $82,000 just from the rejects accumulated as of June 20. Subsequently, thousands of other requests have gushed into Ca­hill's office to the point where he be­lieves that more than $100,000 will have to be returned for this game alone. 
Under the lottery arrangement a Notre Dame man had two chances of getting tickets if he were both an alumnus and parent. Unfortunately, even -with these improved odds, some still lost. "How could one lose on two lotteries?" questioned one such unfor­tunate man. But then he added cryp­tically, "However, if all other games are in Sec. 8 or 9 above the 30th row, all will be forgiven." Die-Hard Alumni. From the amount of mail Cahill receives, the hardest pill for Alumni to swallow is, indeed, the rejection of applications for the MSU game. The national color telecast of the game should ease the strain but to some Alumni, despite Cahill's June 21 announcement that the game was a sellout, the issue is not a dead CMie yet. Meanwhile the approaches made to Cahill, futile as they obviously ar^ become all the more interesting. 
"Dear Shuffle," wrote one die-hard alumnus. "The following tear-jerker would have made installment 328 on radio's own 'Ma Perkins.' The only difference is that her 'shuflBe' never destroyed another person as you have destroyed me." 
The plaintiff continued, "Anyone who sat through the game in East Lansing last faU, proudly singing every 
CAHILL and ASSISTANT KAHLER More requests .. . more returns. 

word of the Victory March each time it was played; while sitting in the mid­dle of the MSU alumni section proud­ly singing every word of the Victory March each time it was played; with his 11-year-old son ('Sit down. Dad, you're embarrassing me.') proudly singing every word of the Victory March every time it was played; and returned home to attend a dance with a husband-wife MSU alumni duo, proudly singing every word of the Vic­tory March each time it was played, should be automatically qualified to attend the 1967 renewal in South Bend." 
In conclusion, "Would you believe —please find me two tickets among the few you have reserved for special necessity? (signed) Hopefully." 
The emotion almost got to Cahill with installment 328 of "Ma Perkins." But, quickly regaining his objectivity. 
he replied, "Unfortunately, we could not allot the tickets on sentimental basis or you would have been among the first to receive them." More Seats. Both Univeiaty o£Bdab and unhappy non-ticket holders have questioned the feadbility of expanding Notre Dame's existing stadium. Re­cendy, in fact, during one closed-door meeting of administrators at the Uni­versity, an architect jokingly was chal­lenged to c«ne up with a plan in time to handle the Michigan State game. Ironically, the joke got beyond the immediate persons party to the remaric and for a brief period word spread through campus and South Bend that indeed this was coining to pass. The rumor neared the end of its short life when Cahill, unaware of these re­marks, was asked by a South Bend newsman when the ND-MSU ticket sale would reopen. In short order the now-balding ticket manager traced the remarks to their origin and once again, the game was declared a "sell­out" 
It is estimated that to expand No­tre Dame's stadium to hold an addi­tional 20,000 people would cost nearly $6 milUon. Not cmly is it a questicm of raising the money but the logic of going to such expense for football at an "academic first" institution would make the possibilities very remote. 
"Practically speaking," Cahill noted in taking an overview of the situation, "who ever thought three years ago that we now would be national champs? Furthermore, who knows how our foott>a]l fortunes will turn three years hence?" The Solution, Present and Future. But despite his philosophical outiook. Bob readily admits that this season has provided him with a real dilemma. As for the! future—^without giving a sec­ond thought to someone's suggesticm­of bringing back Kuharich—^Bob is ready and willing to listen to any sug­gestion {or solving, in particular, ticket requests fc»' Alumni and parents. 
For Mr. Ticket Manager his day often ends well after five. And it's a seldom enjoyed plrasure but on occa­sion he stops long enough before clos­ing shop to read one last letter from an alumnus who possibly senses Ca­hill's precarious position. 
"Along with many others," wrote the Notre Dame man, "I was disap­]x>inted to get my check back for the Michigan State game tickets. The thought just occurred to me that you would probably be getting acrimo­nious letters from every direction. So I wanted you to know that I'm sure you made the allocations as fairly as pos­sible and there is at least one alunmus who isn't after your scalp. Keep up the good work." 
ALUMNUS JULY 1967 AUGUST 


Photoany 

A.LUDiENCE participation was part of the fun at the annual student art exhibit in the University's art gallery. Instead of the usual "hands oflF" warn­ing, the art tourist was given an invitation to spin the bicycle wheel, shift the colored blocks and move boards to suit himself. To challenge him further, there were neon lights, auto bumpers and an air mattress twisted into provocative shapes. Black met white and yellow challenged pink in startling "op" pieces. And "The Evil One," a life-sized monster with a rotating electric fan for a head, kept tabs on tlie comings and goings with his automatic flash­light. There was refuge from the avant-garde, too .. . a boy intent on a chalk-drawn game, beautiful conventional still hfes. And there were messages to be read in the works of what might be called a "literary show." The ideas expressed by Notre Dame's art students are the same as those being considered by its students of literature. A kinetic sculpture can be as moving as a paragraph. An art show is visual eloquence. 
^0 UST as an author sets the tone for his tale, the youthful art instructor who arranged the show, Wil­liam Cowan, gave a mood to each of its sections. His "fun and games" room featured a bright blue box filled with rows of inflated beach balls and a pile of real sand which supported an iron castle 
sculpture. The last room was darkened to heighten the effect of the lighted drawings of the automotive design and advertising students. More of Cowan's touch was seen here in a row of steering wheels near the ceiling. Getting to the student show might have been half the fun, for the first room in the gallery 
was featuring a "Looking Backward from Good­nough" exhibition. But the students who came to the gallery — perhaps for the only time during the year — walked past the cosdy Picasso, Mondriaan and Buffet without a second glance. They were hurrying to see what their friends had done. 
photos bg Richard Steve»» 
74, 

technically, this is good-bye. After 42 years in the same job — give or take a few jobs appended thereto—-lean hardly be accused of making a snap judgment. In another sense, it can hardly be called good-bye. I shall remain a resident of the Valley of Promise; an alum­nus of Notre Dame; a member of the Class of 1925; a member of the St. Joseph Valley Club; and (as of July 5) an honorary life member of the American Alimmi Council. Hardly a trip into the unknown! 
Involved in the change are tangibles and intangibles. The tangible will relieve me of the responsibiUties of a constantly growing program which needs now the contributions of a younger approach, dedicated to the long and great paths ahead already mapped in part. The in­tangible is a conviction that this is a very small plateau on which the University can stop long enough for me to get off. It is a plateau on the steep ascent from the smaller, family-style institution that I began to work for in 1925 to the tremendous and complex institution which in this year 1967 needs its new implementation of corporate structure to achieve its definite function and its implicit destiny. 
If this were a complete change, a substitution, a conflict, or a sharp end-and-beginning, I might come up with a sigh or a tear to mark the occasion. But I have a confidence and a conviction that the great com­mon denominators of the past and the future will remain similar. Our Lady will continue to offer her inspiration and protection. Boys will continue to come to this campus where men emerge. Competition — whether it be academic or athletic, on the campus or in later areas of application — will continue to find, as Mr. Chesterton so strikingly expressed it, "the sunbeams on the sword-blades of the gladiators of God." 

TkeiAMt Word 
Ojhpiiiis 

It has been deeply satisfying to be part of the progress of Notre Dame, not just because of bandwagon and winner reactions but, bci­cause the progress has been a total advancement, guided by good men, involving Notre Dame men everywhere. Their response has been intelligent, effective, but above all, willing. 
I have personally seen too many cherished leaders leave the campus to feel that this good-bye marks any impediment to progress. On the strength of history the Alumni Association, the ALUMNUS magazine and all our allied fields of interest and effort should enjoy new and accelerated progress. There will be new branches blossoming, whose roots I may recognize. But there will be new trees also, as lovely and as vital as any we have known. The landscaping is in competent hands, already proved. 
To the endless list of you whose cooperation and generosity are reflected in the decades of records of Clubs, Glasses, the ALUMNUS, the Aimual Alumni Fund, the Foundation programs and the Reunions, I sincerely thank you, and hope that the satisfaction I fed is shared by you in your contemplation of Notre Dame. 
Disraeli commented that in a society, change Is inevitable; and that in a progressive society, change is continuous. The history of Notre Dame has made change and progress synonymous. I subscribe to this change accordingly with the same enthusiasm for the future of Notre Dame that marked my em­ployment there in 1925. (Written from the orbit of the 1967 Reun­ion, with reentry still a problem!) 
JAMES £. ARMSTRONG '25 
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
ALUMNUS JULY 1947 AUGUST 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS :&'i^­
..#«x 

OFFICERS THOMAS P. CARNEY '37 HONORARY PRESIDENT AMBROSE F. DUDLEY JR. '43 PRESIDENT JOSEPH H. CAREY '32 VICE-PRESIDENT THOMAS W. CARROLL '51 VICE-PRESIDENT CHARLES J. PATTERSON M7 VICE-PRESIDENT JAMES E. ARMSTRONG '25 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY JAMES D. COONEY '59 ASSISTANT ALUMNI SECRETARY 
DIRECTORS TO 1968 
JOSEPH H. CAREY '32 NOMINATIONS RELIGION AND CITIZENSHIP 
19965 BRIARCUFF 
DETROIT, MICH. 48221 
THOMAS W. CARROLL '51 NOMINATIONS PLACEMENT 214 W. 20th HUTCHINSON, KAN. 67501 
AMBROSE F. DUDLEY JR. '43 EXECUTIVE 519 SUSSEX RD. WYNNEWOOD, PA. 19096 
CHARLES J. PATTERSON 'A.7 ACADEMIC AFFAIRS CONTINUING EDUCATION 73 MT. WAYTE AVE. FRAMINGHAM, MASS. 01702 
MAGAZINE STAFF 

DIRECTORS TO 1969 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG '25 

WILLIAM D. KAVANAUGH '27 
EDITOR 

BUDGET 3445 ORDWAY ST., N.W. JOHN P. THURIN '59 WASHINGTON, D.C. 20016 MANAGING EDITOR 
WILLIAM F. KERWIN JR. '40 
JUNE SHASSERE 

ADMISSIONS 
JEANINE DOTY 

1108 EMILIE ST. GREEN BAY, WIS. 54301 EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS BRUCE HARLAN "49 RICHARD A. ROSENTHAL '54 
RICHARD STEVENS '51 

PUBLIC RELATIONS AND 
PETER McGRATH '70 

DEVELOPMENT STUDENT AFFAIRS PHOTOGRAPHERS P.O. BOX 200 SOUTH BEND, IND. 46624 
LEO V. TURGEON '42 ATHLETIC SUITE 107 CRENSHAW MEDICAL CENTER 3731 STOCKER ST. LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90008 
DIRECTORS TO 1970 
EDWARD G. CANTWELL '24 700 BINNS BLVD. COLUMBUS, OHIO 43204 
EDWARD B. FITZPATRICK '54 5 THE MAPLES ROSLYN ESTATES, N.Y. 11576 
JOHN J. REIDY '27 11 850 EDGEWATER DR. NOTRE DAME LAKEWOOD, OHIO 44107 
LEONARD H. SKOGLUND '38 426 DOVER AVE. 
.IIMIM 

LAGRANGE PARK, ILL. 60525 
a 







