The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
RS-BSSSSSSS 

'tx/ms. mmm 
JULY . AUGUST. 1949 
"Zhc UnaiequaU Gliemiilri) £ilirari/ Stoiiia Sjiimlualilc "volumri 
VOL 27 . NO. 4 



Football Roster, 1949 
Name and Position 
Banicki, Frederick, G Barrett, William Carlin, HE Bartlett, James, C 
*Begley, Gerald Carroll, QB Boji, Byron Bcla, C Bums, Paul Eugene, G Bush, John Lawrence, FB Butz, Jean HB Carter, Thomas Leslie, QB 

**Cifelli, August Blase, T Connor, John Francis, E *Cotter, Richard Adrian, FB ^*Coutre, Lawrence Edivard, HB .... 
*Dailer, James Herman, G Daut, John Donald, T Dickson, George Charies, QB Dolmetsch, Robert Emerj', E 

**Espenan, Charles Ra>-mond, LE .... Flood, David Michael, HB 
**Flynn, WiUiam James, LE Fo:<, Francis Joseph, T Gander, Fidel John, FB 
*Gay, Waiiam Thomas, LH *Groom, Jerome Paul, C *«*Grothaus, Walter John, G Hamby, James Harold, G 
***Hart, Leon Joseph (Co-Capt.) RE Helwig, John Frank, G Higgins, William Patrick, G 
•Hudak, Edward James, T Holmes, Thomas Patrick, T Hovey, William Arthur, HB Huber, Thomas Edward, T JcITcrs, John Thomas, C 
*Johnson, Frank Albert, G Johnston, Frank Anthony, G Jonardi, Ra>'mond, E Kapish, Robert John, C Kiousis, Martin John, G Koch, David Anthony, E 

**Lally, Robert John, G _ 
*Landry, John Warren, FB Layden, Ekner Francis, IIB Mahoney, James Edward, T 

»**Martin, James E. (Co-Capt.) LT Mazur, John Edward, QB »**McGehee, Ralph Walter, T 
•McKHlip, William Leo, HB Modak, Daniel, G Mutscheller, James Francis, E O'Neil, John Daniel, FB 

-•'*Oracko, Stephen Francis, G Ostrowski, Chester Casimir, E Perry,-Arthur R., G Petitbon,John Ellis, HB Saggau, Thomas Henry, HB 
-**Sitko, Emil Martin, RH Schwartz, Phillip, T Smith, Eugene Francis, HB 
•Spaniel, Francis James, HB ***Swistowicz, Michael Paul, FB . Toneff, Robert, T *Wallner, Frederick William, G -**Wavbright, Douglas Giles, E 
Whiteside, William Anthony, QB .. '•Wightkin, WiUiam John, E 
*Williams, Robert Allen, QB Yanoschik, Phillip C , C 

*Zalejski, Ernest Raymond, FB .— Zancha, John D. T Zambrowski, Anthony John, G 
*Zmijewski, Alfred Adam, T 

Age
 19 19 20 21 19 20 19 20 22 24 21 20 21 22 18 26 19 22 21 22 19 19 21 20 23 18 20 22 22 21 21 22 20 20 22 20 19 18 19 19 20 23 19 22 25 19 21 20 22 19 20 22 19 19 18
 ' 20 25 20 19 20 22 19 21 22 20 22 19 24 23 19 19 21 
 Height
 5-10 5-8 6-2 6-1­ 5-11 6-2 6-0 ­ 6-0 5-11 6-4 6-0 6-1 5-9 5-9 6-1 5-11 6-2 6-2 5-10 6-2 6-1 6-1 5-11 6-3 6-2 6-1 6-4 6-2 5-11 6-2 6-2 5-10 6-2 5-11 6-0 5-8 6-2 6-0 5-11 6-2 6-0 6-1 6-2 6-1 6-2 6-1 6-1 5-10 6-1 6-1 6-U 6-0 6-1 5-11 5-11 6-0 5-8 6-4 5-9 5-10 5-11 6-1 6-2 6-1 5-10 6-2 6-1 6-0 5-11 5-10 5-11 6-1 
 Weight 
 190  180  195  175  186  214  185  185  173  222  188  178  170  185  205  171  195  188  182  197  200  190  170  210  192  195  245  190  180  200  197  175  195  195  190  184  188  188  190  190  185  180  175  204  204  188  202  175  197  194  185  185  196  198  185  177  180  105  170  184  195  232  203  186  172  198  180  195  185  195  196  200 
Home Town 
Chicago, 111 Chicago, 111 Cincinnati, Ohio Yonkers, N. Y. Chicago, 111 Athens, Pa Davenport, Iowa Lancaster, Pa. Los Angeles, Calif. Philadelphia, Pa Chicago, lU Austin, Minn Chicago, 111 Wheeling, W. Va Hempstead, N. Y 
S. Pasadena, Calif. Chicago, 111 New Orleans, La. Pittsburgh, Pa. Gary, Ind Milwaukee, Wis. Chicago, 111 Chicago, 111. Des Moines, Iowa Cincinnati, Ohio Caruthersville, Mo Turtle Creek, Pa Los Angeles, Calif. Chicago, III Bethlehem, Pa Muskegon, Mich Lake Placid, N. Y Milwaukee, Wis Phoenixville, Pa Cincinnati, Ohio Chicago, 111 Pittsburgh, Pa Barberton, Ohio Lakewood, Ohio Wayzata, Minn Cleveland, Ohio Rochester, N. Y. Kenilworth, 111 Erie, Pa Cleveland, Ohio PI)'mouth, Pa Chicago, 111 McCook, Neb. Campbell, Ohio Beaver Falls, Pa Aurora, 111 Lansford, Pa Chicago, 111 Davenport, Iowa New Orleans, La. Denison, Iowa Fort Wayne, Ind Madison, Wis LaCrosse, Wis Vandergrift, Pa Chicago, 111. Barberton, Ohio Greenfield, Mass Saugus, Mass Philadelphia, Pa. Culver City, Calif. Baltimore, Md Conemaugh, Pa South Bend, Ind Chicago, 111 Erie, Pa Newark, N. J 
High School Class 
 Leo Soph. 
 —Fenwick — Soph.  Elder Soph.  Mt. St. Michael Sr.  Austin Soph.  Athens ..._ Soph.  St. Ambrose Soph.  Lancaster Soph.  Cathedral Jr.  LaSalle Sr. 
 —De LaSaUe Sr.  Saint Augustine Jr.  St. George Sr.  Central Catholic — Sr.  Hempstead Soph.  South Pasadena Sr. 
 —Xeo Soph.  Holy Cross Sr.  Langley Soph.  Horace Mann Jr. 
. ...Pius XI Soph. Mt. Carmel Soph. Tilden Tech Jr.  Dowling — Jr. 
. Purcell — Sr. 
 _.Caruthcrsville Soph.  Turtle Creek Sr.  Mt. Carmel Jr.  Fenwick Jr.  Liberty Jr.  St. Mary's Jr.  Lake Placid Soph.  St. Francis Jr.  Phoenixville Sr.  St. Xavier Sr.  Leo Soph.  Baldwin Jr.  Barberton Soph.  Catholic Latin Soph. 

 „Wayzata — Soph.  Catholic Latin Sr.  Aquinas Jr. ..Loyola (Chicago) Soph.  Catholic Prep Jr.  East Tech Sr.  Plymouth Soph.  Tilden Tech Sr.  McCook Jr.  Memorial Soph.  Beaver Falls Soph.  East Sooh.  Lansford Sr.  Weber Soph.  St. Ambrose Soph.  Jesuit Soph.  Denison Sr.  Central Sr. „ Englewood Jr.  .Aquinas _ Jr.  Vandergrift Sr.  Tilden Tech Sr.  Barberton Soph  .Greenfield Jr.  Saugus Sr.  LaSalle , Jr.  Central Cath. (Detroit).. Sr.  Loyola Jr. 
_ E. Conemaugh Jr.  Washington Jr.  St. George Soph.  Catholic Soph.  East Side Sr. 
NOTE: * Deiiules Muttugfuuis Wun. 
ZalejsJci did not win 3 monogram in 1948. ii e earned it in 1946. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by (he Univ-enity of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second dass matter Octo­ber 1, 1939, at the PostolBce, No.re Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council. 
VcL 27 JULY-AUGUST. 1949 
Five Vice - Presidents 
Creation of four new vice-presidential po­sitions at Notre Dame was announced on July 16 by Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., provincial of the Indiana Province of the Priests of Holy Cross. 
Under the new administrative organiza­tion at Notre Dame the University will have 
five vice-presidents, 
each charged with 
his own specific du­
ties. Previously, only 
one vice - president 
was included in the 
administrative organ­
ization of the Uni­
versity. 
Father Steiner, who announced the new vice-presidencies 

Father Kehoe 

in conjunction with the 1949 obediences for priests and brothers of the province, also announced that Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, since 1946 pres­ident of Notre Dame, has been named pres­ident for another three-year term. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hcsburgh, C.S.C, was named by Father Steiner as executive vice-president of Notre Dame. Father Hesburgh formerly was head of the Department of Religion. 
Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C, was named vice-president in charge of public relations. Father Murphy had served as vice-president for the past three years. 
Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C, formerly di­rector of studies, was appointed by Father Steiner to serve as vice-president in charge of academic affairs. 
Father Steiner announced the appoint­ment of Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C, to the post of vice-president in charge of business affairs. Father Burke previously held the position of business manager at the Uni­versity. 
The fifth vice-president announced by Father Steiner was Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C, who was named vice-president in charge of student welfare. Father Kehoe has held the position of director of student welfare. Rev. James J. Leahy, C.S.C, who during the later part of World War II was administrative assistant to the president of Notre Dame, was appointed assistant to the vice-president in charge of student welfare. Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C, who has been assistant dirctor of student welfare, was as­signed to do vocational work at Holy Cross Seminary on the campus. 
In other major changes affecting Notre Dame, Father Steiner announced the assign­ment of Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C, as vice-president and dean of Arts and Letters at the University of Portland (Oregon). Father Sweeney had been executive assistant to the president at Notre Dame. Rev. Fran­cis P. Goodall, C.S.C, vice-president of Portland, was assigned as pastor of Christ the King parish in Roseland near South Bend. 
Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C, superior of Holy Cross Seminary, was appointed pre­fect of religion, succeeding Rev. William T. Craddick, C.S.C Father Craddick was nam­No. 4 
ed master of novices at Sacred Heart Novi­tiate in South Bend, succeeding Rev. Felix 
D. Duffcy, C.S.C, who was apipointed as­sistant editor of The Ave Maria. 
Rev. A. Leonard CoKuis, C.S.C, superior of Moreau Seminary, was named superior of Holy Cross Seminary to sacceed Father Grimm. Rev. Bernard L. McAvoy, C.S.C, rector of Morrissey, was appointed superior of Moreau Seminary to succeed Father Col­lins. 
Rev. Wendell P. Corcoran, C.S.C, pas­tor of St. Patrick's Church in South Bend, was sent to Notre Dame as provincial procurator, and Rev. Charles L. Dorcmus, CS.C, former professor of French at No­tre Dame, returned from parish woric in. New Orleans to the University as assistant chaplain of the Commimity House. 
A total of twenty-seven priests in the or­der were assigned to study for advanced de­grees. 
Two newly-ordained priests partictdarly known to alumni have both been assigned to Notre Dame. They are Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, CS.C, '37, who will teach and be assistant to the steward and will reside in Corby Hall, and Rev. Jerome J. WilsoD, C.S.C., '32, who will teach and reside in Moreau Seminary. 
Four oi the five Notre Dame vice-preddente 
 are putond IMM OI Ih* MeBodoI Deer to 
Sacred Heart Church. From left: Fathers Biuk*. Heabnigli. Kaima and Moxpbr- TH* fifth vice-president. Father Kehoe. shown elsewhere on this page, was ohsant from th* Vta­versity when this picture was token. 
Modi HmuHJOHetl tUouxflU UttU . . . 

This Was the Top Reunion 
in Alumni, cooperated generously in run­ning one club room in each hall. 
The Alumni golf tournament began Fri­day afternoon on the William J. Burke-University course. According to the official program, there were "prizes for skill and luck . . . and refreshments on the course." 
The Alumni Reunion, detached this year for the first time from Commencement, could with reason be acclaimed as the top reunion of all time. 
That's a strong statement, but the secre­taries and the reunion chairmen of the 1949 reunion classes have "signed statements" to back it up. There was general agreement, on the campus over the weekend of June 10-12 and in letters afterward, that the historic separation of the Commencement and the Reunion in 1949 was precisely the right de­velopment and should be continued. 
And it will be. The reunion classes of 1900, 1905, 1910, 1915, 1920, 1925, 1930, 1935, 1940 and 1945 should at once re­serve the weekend of June 9, 10 and 11, 1950, for a trip into northern Indiana. That also will be the weekend after Commence­ment. 
Some 700 alumni, most of them members of the five-year reunion classes, were wel­comed to the campus for the 1949 reunion. Registration, as last year, was carried on in 
Norman B. Jenkins, '30, Richmond, Ind., Foundation chairman is being congratulated by Father Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C, ex­ecutive assistant to the president, immediate­ly after receiving the special award from James E. Armstrong, alumni secretar}- and ^ce-chairman of the Notre Dame Founda­tion, at the Alumni Banquet. Leo R. Mcln­tyre, '28, AUentown, Pa., chairman, is at the extreme left, while Edward G. Cant-well, '24, Columbus, O., chairman, looks on after both were also given special awards. 
the Law Building at the campus entrance. Class caps—each reunion class had a dis­tinctive cap with numeral this year for the first time—^were given out there or in the residence halls. Alumni of the classes before 1924 resided in Walsh Hall; the silver an­niversary men of 1924 had Badin to them­selves; Dillon Hall housed men from 1925 to 1936, with the reunion classes of 1929 and 1934 predominating; and Alumni Hall took in the "youngsters"—1937 to 1948, with 1939 and 1944 reunioners accounting for the majority. 

To greet the incoming reunioners, club rooms, with essential equipment and service, were set up in the basements of both Dil­lon Hall and Alumni Hall and in special quarters in Badin Hall and Walsh Hall. And, it should be added, service in these club rooms continued for a considerable por­tion of the weekend. Don Plunkett, '29, and Bob Cahill, '34, the reunion chairmen op­erating in Dillon, and Hugh Bums, '39, and Jim Cunningham, '44, doing similiar duty 
Other chairmen, who received awards, in absentia, include James R. Dooley, '22, Law­rence, Mass., Frank H. Murphy, '22, Peoria, lU., Edward D. McKim, Omaha, Neb., and William P. Kelly, Louisville, Ky. Mr. Mc­Kim (father of the late Edward D. McKim, Jr., '43) and Mr. Kelly are friends of the University, who are doing extraordinary work for the Foundation as chairmen of their respective areas. Foundation commit­teemen in all of chairman cities as listed above will also be presented with awards. 
And the program was right, if you're think-of Chet Keeley's tool shed as being "on the course." Anyhow, it's mighty close to it and that's where many an alumnus spent quite a parcel of time on Friday afternoon and Sat­urday. There again was an innovation for the alumni reunion of this year. 
And swimming in the Rockne Memorial pool on Friday afternoon and all day Sat­urday was new this year. In former years since the opening of the "Rock" the pool had to be available on reunion weekend for inspection by Commencement visitors. Many an alumnus this year took advantage of Di­rector Scannell's hospitality for a cool-off on a muggy weekend. 
The special reunion parties (about which you will read much more under the ap­propriate class headings in another part of the magazine) began at 6 p. m. The 35­year class of 1914, guided by Ira Hurley as secretary and Walter Clements as local reunion chairman, had its dinner in the No­tre Dame Dining Hall and invited in mem­bers of the 1899, 1904 and 1909 classes, as well as members of the Alumni Board who had just finished a session on the campus. 
The class of 1919 was to have had a Friday dinner also, arranged by Chairman Paul Fenlon, but the 1919 personnel did not arrive in force until Saturday and the Friday dinner was cancelled. 
Father Tom Kelly, C.S.C, and Jim Mee­han, local reunion co-chairmen, guided the silver-capped 1924 delegates to the Indiana Club in South Bend where a magnificent dinner awaited them. Don Plunkett and Bob Cahill had the '29 and '34 we're-not­so-olders at the Oliver Hotel for smokers which the program says, started at 8 p. m. At the same hour Trainer Bums collected his '39 charges at the LaSalle Hotel and Jim Cunningham blazed the trail for the '44 white-caps from Alumni Hall over to the Vetville Recreation Hall. 
While reunioners were "reuning" on Fri­day evening, the new Audio-Visual Center in the Main Building, directed by Orville Foster, showed Notre Dame movies, foot­ball and non-football, for the enjoyment of campus-staying alumni, and this popular new feature was repeated on Saturday morn­ing. 
The class Masses, offered on Saturday morning in the chapek of the residence halls, added a somber yet inspiring note to the weekend. Participation in the Masses was substantial in all cases. Bob Cahill pro­vided a much-appreciated memory piece when he had printed for the '34 Mass the pictures and names of all '34 men who had died since the class was graduated. Father Kelly and Jim Meehan had made an impres­sive large sign containing the names of all 36 men of '24 who had died, and this sign stood alongside the altar in Badin while the class Mass was offered. 
There could hardly be any argument that the Softball game(s) on Saturday morning on the Badin Bog added the most hilarious note of the weekend as well as the top op­portunity for candid camera fans. Accounts of game(s) and the score (s) differ accord­ing to the class origin of the teller(s). In the end, the youths of '44 found them­selves batting against a phalanx of 30— count 'em— outfielders who dared them to hit a ball that couldn't be stopped. 
The traditional President's Luncheon for the Silver Anniversary Class was conducted in the Dining Hall Saturday noon with Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.G., vice-president, the official host in the necessary absence from the University of Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president. Alumni Director Conroy Scoggins, '24, presided and Father Murphy welcomed the class. 
Saturday afternoon brought another new event of the Reunion weekend—a seminar called "Notre Dame and the World." Parti­cipating in it were Clarence "Pat" Manion, '22, dean of the Law School, and Frank O'Malley, '32, professor of English and man­aging editor of The Review of Politics, with Rev. Howard Kcnna, C.S.C., director of studies, presiding. 
An audience of approximately one hun­dred listened for well over two hours to Dean Manion's discourse on the foundations of government and Professor O'Malley's treatise on the fundamentals of education and some of these later expressed their dis­appointment that it was deemed necessary to close the seminar shortly before five o'clock. Such was its success in 1949 that plans are being considered for further de­volpment of the seminar idea at the 1950 reunion. 
A conducted tour of the campus was an­other feature of the Saturday afternoon pro­gram. And at 4 o'clock the new Law Asso­ciation had a cocktail party for its members in the Law Building, adding still another new—and most pleasant—event to a week­end that was filled with new events. 
Large numbers of Notre Dame lawyers were able to meet informally. Francis Jones, president of the Law Association, and R. Floyd Searer, another South Bend attorney, handled arrangements for the cocktail party, along with Dean Manion and Prof. Robert 
E. Sullivan of the Law School faculty. 
The Alumni Banquet on Saturday evening provided, as always, the climax of the re­union weekend. With Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., executive assistant to the president, giving the only address (about which more later), much of the evening was given over to music and singing by and under the direction of Harlan Hogan and his orchestra. Songs appropriate to the grad­uation years of the reunion classes were sung, starting with "After the Ball is Over" for 1899 and running through "Yankee Doodle Dandy" for 1904, up to "Stormy Weather" for 1934, and to "Roll Out the Barrel" for 1944. Tom Curry, '14, Tony Kopecky, '29, and Bob Ruetz, '50, sang solos and there were class song leaders for the distinctive offerings of many of the classes. 
Francis Wallace, presided at the Banquet. He introduced for brief remarks Hugh Bums, '39, chairman of golf, who awarded the prizes for "skill and luck" won in the alumni tournament on Friday and Saturday; James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary, (see accompanying picture) who presented awards from the Notre Dame Foundation; and William R. Dooley, assistant alumni secretary, who spoke in gratitude to the University administration and to all the co­operating individuals who had made the re­union success possible. 
The final "new" event of the weekend was the special Mass for alumni offered in a well-filled Sacred Heart Church on Sunday morning at 10 o'clock. The preacher. Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., assistant pro­fessor of Slavic Languages, eloquently but briefly dwelt upon the primary obligations of alumni simply as men, upon their duty to know God, to love Him and to serve Him. 
The last official function of the weekend was the Monogram Banquet Sunday noon, and about this you'll read more elsewhere in this issue. 
Father Sweeney in his address at the Ban­quet gave a frank diagnosis of Notre Dame men and their potentialities. 
"I should like to spend a few minutes dis­cussing the state of the union—between the University of Notre Dame and its alumni," Father Sweeney said. 
"There are three points I should like to consider: First, what does the University think of the conduct of its alumni? Second, what does the University think of the ca­reers of its alimini? Thirdly, what does the University think of the Alumni Association and the local alumni clubs? 
"On each of these three points I with to give you an honest appr^sal, unaffected hf the banquet spirit of cheer. ­
"First: What does the University think <rf the conduct of Notre Dame men? 
"Notre Dame is not unqualifiedly proud of the conduct of its men. There are still too many Notre Dame men who do not exemplify the things that Notre Dame stands for. But in the main, the conduct of our alumni has been laudable. They are giv­ing a good example of decency, of action, wholesomeness of family life, and effective concern for the welfare and needs of others. It is this fact which the University would like to stress most emphatically. We desire Notre Dame men to be leaders in Catholic Action and Christian charity. 
"It is still our hope that in every com­munity in the United States, the fact tliat a man is a Notre Dame man will mean that he is expected to give the example of de­cency, of intelligent wholesomeness, and irf Christian charity. 
"You should be able to look to the No­tre Dame men who are older than you as examples to model yotir conduct on. And younger men should be able to look to you. No one in your town should be forced to look beyond the Notre Dame men for ex­amples on which to model their conduct. 
"Secondy, what does the University think of the careers of its alumni? The University believes that its alumni have exercised a good influence in their communities. But they have not yet begun to exercise the in­fluence that they should have—except in a few communities. There are some exceptions. Allow me to mention only one: In Tulsa, Okla., with a relatively small proportion of alumni, they have influenced a real leader­ship on the community. They have been in-
ReT. Bobert H. Sweener. CS. C right, was 
 th« Bp»Aut at UM Alnaai Boaqml < 
Franeu WaUace, center, president ol the Almaai A—odcrtiaa. pcMidad. U e B. Ward, left, alumni director from Los AagelM, was crt tii* haod tabto. 
fluential in forming the ideals and thought of the community. There are a few other examples. But they are not yet sufficient in number. 
"The University hopes that in every com­munit)' of the United States its alumni will make the sacrifice of personal interest and personal amusement, to become a dominat­ing influence for good in the thought and the conununal action of the community. 
"The third point: What does the Univer­sity think of the Alumni Association and the local alumni clubs? 
"The University, frankly, thinks that in the main the alumni clubs have not yet be­gun to realize and to use their power. 
"A handful of men with a single purpose and self-sacrificing devotion to a cause took over control of Russia. They now control al­most half the people in the world. 
"And a handful of men with a single purpose could shape public opinion in your community. 
"Your strength is in knowing what is right and what is wrong. Most present-day grad­uates of public institutions are not sure there is a difference. They cannot be sure that you are wrong, because they are not sure that anything is wrong. And they cannot be sure they are right, because they do not know exactly what is right. 
"This is the desire of the University with regard to your local clubs: that you select a worthwhile purpose that all can agree on —avoiding political matters and controver­sial matters; that you unite in energetic ac­tion toward that worthwhile purpose. 
"Because you agree on the basic principles that you learned at Notre Dame, if you unite in energetic, concerted action . . . you can transform your town. 
"With unity, you can change the world. 
"The influence of a University is not in a \'acuum. It is in people. 
"The influence, the prestige of Notre Dame has been steadily increasing. There are many impartial obser\'ers who say that Notre Dame today is the outstanding, the most influential Catholic university in the land. 
"Even if this be true, it is not enough. It is only a beginning. It is our purpose to make Notre Dame the most influential uni­versity in this land . . . excepting none. 
"The influence of a Universit)' is in two things: First, the scholarly work that it produces. It is our firm and dogged purpose, wthin the academic fields that the Univer­sit)' enters, to produce the works of scholar­ship that suffer by comparison with no other universit>'. Fifty years ago this might have seemed presumptuous. 
"But you, as Notre Dame men, would not want Frank Leahy to aim at producing a team that was better than all the teams in the countrj-—except the top teams. You want Frank Leahy to try to produce the best team in the country. 
"And you would not want us to try to develop a school that was better than all the schools of the country—except the top schools. You want us to aim at the very top. Frank Leahy does not produce a national champion ever>' year. But you never need be ashamed of a Notre Dame team. 
"It is our purpose to keep you from being ashamed of Notre Dame in any way. We want you to be proud of Notre Dame when you come back here. When you bring your wife and your children here to the campus, we want you to be proud as you say: iTiis is MY school . . . the greatest in the world." 
20 Holy Cross Priests Are Ordained 
Twenty priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross who had finished their theologi­cal studies in Holy Cross College, Washing­ton, D. C , were ordained in February, May and June. 
The ordained of this year include Rev. Michael J. Murphy, Butte, Mont; Rev. Richard W. Timm, Michigan City, Ind.; Rev. John J. Murphy, Watertown, Mass.; Rev. Mark G. McGrath, Panama City, Pan­ama; Rev. John E. Walsh, Milwaukee; Rev. William H. Donahue, Philadelphia, Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, Pittsburgh; Rev. Charles 
A. Delaney, Binghamton, N. Y.; Rev. Stan­islaus J. Rdzok, Chicago; Rev. Robert S. Pelton, Evanston, 111.; Rev. George C. Ber­nard, Springfield, 111.; Rev. Harold L. Bride, Independence, Ore.; Rev. William 
C. O'Connor, Green Bay, Wis.; Rev. Edwin 
J. Kadzielawski, Chicago; Rev. Charles P. Gillespie, Philadelphia; Rev. Thomas G. La Pine, Danbury, Conn.; Rev. D. Farley Cur-tin, Chicago; Rev. John L. Van Wolvlear, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, Spartanburg, S. C , and Rev. An­thony B. MazeroUe, Kingsclear, N. B., Can. 
Eleven of the 20 new priests were ordain­ed at Notre Dame on June 8 and five others were ordained in Washington, D. C, on Jund 7. Because of the critical illness of his mother. Father Wilson was ordained in Washington on Feb. 7. Father Michael Mur­phy was ordained in Portland, Ore., on May 28, Father McGrath in Panama on June II and Father MazeroUe in St. John, N. B., on June 16. 


President of Stonehill 
Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C, head of the Department of Political Science at No­tre Dame, has been appointed president of Stonehill College in North Easton, Mass., according to an announcement by the Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C, vice-provincial of the Eastern Vice-Province of the Priests of Holy Cross. 
Father Boland, a native of Everett, Mass., taught Economics at Notre Dame from 1924 until 1930. He was vice-president of St. Edward's University in Austin, Tex., from 1930 until 1934, and returned to Notre Dame in the latter year as prefect of discip­line, a position' he held for three years. 
A graduate of Notre Dame in 1918, Father Boland served as dean of the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame from 1940 until he entered the service a a chap­lain in 1943. During his service as a chap­lain in the Navy, Father Boland, served aboard the U.S.S. Highland, an attack trans­port, in the latter stages of the war. He par­ticipated in the invasion of Iwo Jima and Okinawa, and his ship carried the first occu­pation troops to Japan on V-J Day. He re­turned to Notre Dame as head of the De­partment of Political Science following his discharge in 1947, and recently received the permanent rank of lieutenant commander in the Naval Reserve. 

Having just registered in the Law Building these alumni stopped outside ior the phe­togropher. Leh to right Elmer Silha, '44; Floyd Vincent '44; ItCke Fox, '34; Paul Martin-Dillon. "OS; Vmiiom D. lamieson, '05; Daniel J. O'Connor, 'OS, and Bob Cahill. '34. 

^Morn of CMohre (Dame' 
Irene Dunne 
Receives 

Laetare Meda 
Irene Dunne, motion picture actress, was the chief figure in brilliant ceremonies when she formally received the Laetare Medal in a crowded Drill Hall at Notre Dame on June 29. 
Miss Dunne, who in private life is Mrs. Francis D. Griffin, was accompanied to No­tre Dame for the ceremonies by her hus­band. Dr. Griffin; Mary Frances, their 12­year-old daughter; her brother and his wife, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Dunne of Beverly Hills, Calif.; an aunt, Alice Henry, also of Beverly Hills; Mrs. Verbena Hebbard, of Los Angeles, a close personal friend; and a host of movie executives. 
In accepting the Laetare Medal, the old­est American Catholic medal. Miss Dunne told the audience that "when a university of men honors a woman, I see in it an echo of its original consecration, when high upon its golden dome the university placed the Lady Who is Notre Dame." 
"I might be tempted to regard this Lae­tare Medal as a personal tribute were it not for the fact that I, like you, have been bom of Notre Dame," Miss Dunne declared. "Everyone is bom of woman, not only physi­cally but spiritually. In that consciousness, I know that the Laetare Medal is not for my honor but is rather first a tribute to womanhood and secondly to my profession." 
Miss Dunne pointed out that "the motion picture industry . . . has on the whole, not only been free from wounding the religious beliefs of its patrons, but has been a posi­tive influence for good by taking religious subjects as its most popular theme." She stressed that "very few other vehicles of public information and entertainment call in a religious leader to consult on the correct­ness of their presentations, but our industry prides itself on having religious counsel for religious pictures." 
"One of our. greatest temptations is to believe our press clippings," Miss Dunne explained. "Happily, the Church has pro­vided the best antidote I know of against believing our publicity and that is the daily examination of conscience. Nothing cuts us dowii to proper stature like kneeling in a confessional box, for God reads only hearts, not press clippings." 
Miss Dunne concluded: "The whole world is trying to secure itself against an inner-emptiness, and two of the potent forces which are filling up this vacuum are 
(Continued on Page 22) 

Among the leading partidpanis in the preienlolioa of the loeiore Medal were, left to right. Archbishop Mdntyre ol Los Aagele*. bene Dmnie. Monsignor Sheen and Father Joha Coranangh. 
Irene Dunne shows the Laetare Medal to her hnAond. Ht. Vtvadm D. Giiffiai and to her danghter. Mary Rranees Giiifia. 
Four Professors 
Retire 

From Service 
Four professors, well known to succeed­ing generations of alumni, retired at the end of the 1948-49 schoolyear, according to an announcement by the Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs. 
Those now retired are Prof. Thomas F. Konop, dean-emeritus of the College of Law; Prof. Hcnr)' C. F. Staunton of the Depart­ment of English; Dr. E. G. Mahin, head of the Department of Metallurg>-, and Prof. Edward T. Mug, of the Department of Elec­trical Engineering. 
Prof. Konop, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1923, was dean of the Notre Dame Law School from that year until 1941. He was succeeded by the present dean, Clarence Manion. Under Prof. Kon­op's direction, the Notre Dame College of Law was admitted to the -American Associa­tion of Law Schools and, in 1925, was ap­proved by the section on legal education of the American Bar .Association. 
Dr. Mahin came to Notre Dame in 1925, after 25 years on the faculty of Purdue Uni­versity. Head of the Department of Metal­lurg)- since 1932, he was instrumental in- the formation of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Societ)' for Metals, and is a trus­tee of the ASM. Dr. Mahin also is the in­ventor of a new process of carburizing steel. 
Prof. Staunton also joined the English faculty at Notre Dame in 1925. Before com­ing to Notre Dame he taught English, Ger­man and Latin in New York high schools and ser\'ed as a tutor for college. During his tenure on the Notre Dame faculty he spe­cialized in American literature, English liter­ature of the ninetenth century and poetrj*. He was the 1948 recipient of the Lay Fac­ultj' Award for distinguished service which is awarded annually by the Alumni Associa­tion. 
Prof. Mug was graduated from Purdue University with a bachelor of science degree in 1899, and was awarded an electrical en­gineering degre from the same university in 1901. He was a member of the Notre Dame faculty from 1946 on. 
Medicinal Chemists to N.D. 
Notre Dame has been chosen as the site of the National Symposium of the Medici­nal Chemistry Di\'ision of the American Chemical Society on June 15-17, 1950. More than 500 pharmachologists and chem­ists are expected to attend. 
Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell, professor of Chemistry, is chairman-elect of the Medici­nal Chemistry Division of the American Chemical Society and will be general chair­man for the 1950 s>Tnposium. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

centuries temporal progress in the world has been fostered by the saints." Yet he says in the course of modem history when "a par­ticularly inhuman structure of society, caus­ed by the industrialist revolution, made the problem of social justice manifestly crucial, there has arisen no saint to lead the Chris­tian revolution and instead we find the con­temporary atheist trj-ing to lead the people." 
Dr. Maritain says that there have been saints in the Church during these modem times, "but they did not pass beyond the spiritual, apostolic or charitable activities; Prof. Staunton Prof. Konop they did not cross the threshold of temporal, social, secular activity. And thus the gap was not filled in." 
Of the contemporary atheists. Dr. Mari­tain distinguishes three kinds. "There are practical atheists, who believe that they be­
' lieve in God but who in reality deny His existence by each one of their deeds—they worship the world, and power, and money. Then there are pseudo-atheists, who believe that they do not believe in God but who in reality unconsciously believe in Him, because the god whose existence they deny is not God but something else. Finally, there are Prof. Mahin absolute atheists, who actually deny the ex­istence of the ver>- God in whom the be­lievers believe—God the Creator, Saviour 
Maritain Says Social and Father, Whose name is infinitely over and above any name we can utter." 
Revolution Needs Saint 
The trouble with the contemporary athe­The reason why the current social revo­ist, says Dr. Maritain, is that he "is not lution has placed so many in opposition to atheist enough." "He is too indignant with religion is because the revolution, unlike so the Jupiter of the world, the god of the many other revolutions, has not been led by idolators, the powerful and the rich; he too a saint, according to noted philosopher decides to get rid of him. But instead of Jacques Maritain in the July issue of the throwing against the false god the strength Review of Politics, published at Notre Dame. 

of the true God, and giving himself to the "In fact, except for a few men of faith, 
work of the true God, as the saint does, like Ozanam in France and Toniolo in Italy 
the atheist, because he rejects the true God, (they are not yet canonized, but some day 
cannot struggle against the Jupiter of the might be), the task as we know was not led 
world except in calling for help the strength by saints," declares Dr. Maritain. "It even 
of the immanent god of history, and in giv­happened that atheists, instead of saints, 
ing himself to the work of that immanent took the lead in social matters, much to the 
god. misfortune of all." "In comparison with the saint, who 
Maritain's article "On the Meaning of achieves in his flesh his initial break and dies Contemporary Atheism" was given as part every day and is blessed with the beatitudes of the celebration of the tenth anniversary of the poor and who enjoys the perfect free­
of the foundation of the Review of Politics. dom of those who are led by the spirit, the atheist is, it seems to me, a very poor rep­"The Fathers of the Church were great lica of the liberated mind and the heroic revolutionists," Dr. Maritain explains. "For insurgent." 
WARNING 
It has been the policy of ALUMNUS van, who represents himself as a grad­to avoid publicity concerning alumni uate, from Joliet, 111. The Thomas J. that would work injustice to an indi­Donovan in question was a student at vidual who might temporarily have Notre Dame for one year, 1929-30, strayed from the path of the moral re­from Joliet. He has victimized alumni sponsibility that is the keynote of No­in various parts of the country vrith tre Dame education. But occasionally bad checks, usually in amounts approxi­a case become so repetitive as to de­mating $25, on stories that are very mand protection of the alumni whose convincing. The experiences have been charity makes them too ready victims. too frequent and too flagrant for the 
This is the case of Thomas J. Dono­ALUMNUS to ignore. 
$69,000 from Rockefeller Foundation 
Will Further Study of I nternational Kelations 
Notre Dame has received a grant of $69,000 from the Rockefeller Foundation in New York City to aid in the development of a project to fur­ther the study of international rela­tions at Notre Dame, it was an­nounced late in July by Rev. John 
J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president. 
Father Cava­naugh, in making the announcement, pointed out that Notre Dame has Dr. Gurian 
been interested for many years in the study of international re­lations, as evidenced by its subsidization of the Review of Politics, which during the ten years of its existence has won a place of eminence in its field. The University is 
interested particu­
larly. Father Cava­
naugh declared, in 
the influence o f 
ethics, philosophies 
and ideologies in 
world affairs. 
According to the 
terms of the grant 
by the Rockefeller 
Foundation for the 
Notre Dame pro­
ject, the Univer­
sity will recive 
Dr. Fitzsimons 

$27,500 in 1949­50, $23,000 in 1950-51 and $18,500 in 1951-52 to help subsidize the project. The University will defray the remainder of the expenses connected with the project. 
Plans for the project call for the estab­lishment of a Com­mittee for the Stud'- of Interna­tional Relations at Notre Dame, which will be designed to organize publica­tions and to direct research in th e field of internation­al relations. By its work the Commit­tee hopes to con­tribute to the un­
Dr. Shanahan 

derstanding of the role of ethics and ideologies in world affairs. 
Chief concern of the Committee will be the interrelations of religion, democracy and international order. It will devote particu­lar attention to the rise of the political re­ligions in the twentieth century and their relations with traditional religious groups. The Committee also will study the adap­tation of the various religious groups to the new conditions created by modem mass movements. Such topics as the relations of Church and State, the role of religion in educational systems, the relations of vari­ous groups faced by the threat of totalita­rianism in its manifold forms, and Catholic .Action will be investigated. 
Members of the Committee for the Study of International Relations at Notre Dame are: Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of Political Science and editor of the Review of Politics, who has been a lifelong student of Marxism, of Church and State prob­lems and of the social philosophy of French Catholics; Dr. F. A. Hermens, professor of Political Science, who is a student of proportional representation," electoral tech­niques, constitutional problems and the re­lations between politics and economics; Dr. William O. Shanahan, assistant professor of History, who is concerned with European military institutions, particularly the Ger­man Army, and wit h nineteenth century liberalism an d conservatism; and Dr. Matthew 
A. Fitzsimons, as­sociate professor of Histor}-, who di­vides his interests between British constitutional, re­ligious and social thought, and early modern historiog­Dr. Hermens raphy. 
Two other members of the Notre Dame faculty are engaged in work which will be of special relevance to the project. Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, c.s.c, head of the Department of Histor>-, is a student' of the history of the Catholic minority in the United States. Dr. Aaron I. Abell, associate professor of History, is a student of the urban impact on American religion and of American social reform. 
The projected work calls for a systematic program of research for students and teach­ers in the general field of the Interrelations of Religion, Democrcacy and International Order. The Committee of four will seek the advice of an outside advisory group and will call upon visiting professors and schol­ars in Europe to contribute to their pro­gram. 
Studies contemplated for the project in­clude such subjects as "The Soviets and World Affairs," "Religion and Internation­al Affairs" and "Christian Democratic Par­
ties." 
A symposium in conjunction with the pro­ject is scheduled to be held annually at No­tre Dame. In these symposia, such subjects as "Methods of Soviet Expansion," "Church and State in Central and Western Europe After World War II," "The Religious PoU­tics of the Soviet Union" and "Role of Re­ligion in International Order," will be dis­cussed. 
Results of research and the papers of the symposia will be published by Notre Dame either in the Review of Politics or in a spe­series of pamphlets. 
Lay Retreat Planned 

About 1,500 Catholic laymen are expect­ed to attend the 27th annual Laymen's Re­treat to be held Aug. 18-21 at Notre Dame. Rev. Michael A. Foran, C.S.C, is the direc­tor of retreats. Ml of the exercises are plan­ned for the Grotto, except daily Mass which will be in Sacred Heart Church. 
The climax of the retreat will be a can­dlelight procession on the final night of the program in which all of the participants, bearing lighted tapers, will march from Sacred Heart Church, through the Univer­sity grounds, to the Grotto for celebration of Solemn Benediction. 
R. I. P. 

Thomas Heam, '15, Foundation governor for California and long time prominent Los Angeles alumnus, died in St. Vincent's Hos­pital in Los Angeles on July 26. He is sur­vived by his wife, and by four sons, includ­ing Richard Heam a graduate of June, '49, and Robert, a student in the summer session. 
Tom Heam was assistant city attorney, a past president of the Notre Dame Club of Angeles, and a leader for many years in Catholic and civic affairs. 
Thomas Ashe, '31, succeds Tom as Foun­
dation governor for California by the ap­
pointment of Father Cavanaugh. 
Prof, Pasquale M. Pirchio, E.E., '25, M.A., '32, professor at Notre Dame for 26 years, was found fatally shot on July 10 in the Community cemetery on the campus. Coroner T. C. Goraczewski, of South Bend, returned a verdict of suicide. 
Professor Pirchio was bom in Italy, July 
16, 1898, and came to this country when he 
was 16. Surviving are his wife and two 
daughters, and his mother and two sisters in 
Italy. One of his daughters is the wife of 
Callix E. Mfller, Jr., '49. 
Rev. Patrick Duffy, C.S.C, pastor, sang 
the funeral Mass in Christ the King Church, 
Roscland. Burial was in St. Joseph Valley Memorial Park. 
10 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
THE THIRD ANNUAL Sisters' Vocational Institute was held from July 20 through the 24th. The meetings were devoted to the study oi practical means of discovering and fostering vocations to the Sisterhood. 
Three bishops and two monsignori were among the principal participants at the 1949 Institute. They were: Most Rev. Joim 
F. NoIL bishop of Fort Wayne; Most Rev. John G. Bennett, bishop of Lafayette, Ind.; Most Rev. Thomas J. McDonnell, national director of the Society for the Propagation of the Faith. New York City; Rt Rev. Msgr. Clarence Elwell, diocesan superintendent of schools. Cleveland, and Rf. Rev. Msgr. John Sabo. South Bend. Dennis J. O'Neill, '26, and Joseph D. A. McCabe, '33. were two oi the lay speakers at the Institute. 
A PROFESSIONAL MODEL, Nelson Bennet, demonstrated the techniques of his art before students of the Depart­ment of Fine Arts. The former trapeze per­former, now 50, has posed for such artists as Remon, Degas, Henri, Rodin and Mes­travic. 
THE DUMONT TELEVISION network will televise five Notre Dame football games next foil on its eastern and midwestem networks. These will be the four home contests—^Indiana. Tulane. Iowa, and Sou­thern California—^plus the North Carolina game in New York. Twelve or fifteen other stations through the coimtry will use films of the games. 
DEAN JAMES E. McCARTHY, of the College of Commerce, has accepted an invi­tation to serve on the Committee on Adver­tising of the United States Chamber of Commerce. The committee advises the na­tional chamber on ways to broaden interest in advertising by bringing pertinent infor­mation to the attention of businessmen, chambers of commerce, and trade associa­tions. The committee meets six times a year in New York. 
A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT voluntary Ooth of Allegiance to the United States government was signed and submitted to the Atomic Energy Commission and the Congress of the United States by students in the Graduate School here who are hold­ers of Atomic Energy Commission Fellow­ships, 
Graduate students at Notre Dame were awarded eight out of a total of forty-four fellowships mode available by the Atomic Energy Commission for the '48-'49 school-year. 
THE NINETY-FIFTH ANNUAL stu­dent art show is in progress under sponsor­ship of the Department of Fine Arts. 
UNIVERSITIES of the nation must pro­vide industry with discoveries of pure sci­ence which industry can put to work, through applied science, for the good of mankind, said Harold S. Vance, chairman of the board and president of the Stude­baker Corporation. 
1U 

UNIVERSITY 
By EDWARD A. HSCHER. '37 
THE SUMMER SESSION wUl end with the conierring of degrees Aug. 12. The registrar's office announced that 1,595 stu­dents are studying here this summer. Of these. 914 are undergrads and 681 gradu­ate students. The total includes 324 Sisters end 2S4 Priests and Brothers. 
TWO N.\T10N.'\L BOOK CLUBS have named as their current Book of the Month "The Road to Damascus," edited by Rev. John A. O'Brien. It is the June selection of the Thomas More book club and the bonus selection of the Family Reading Club. The antholog)' contains the conversion stories of such well known persons as Eve-Ira Waugh, Fulton Oursler, Clare Booth Luce, Senator Robert Wagner, and Francis Parkinson Keyes. 
BETTER TELEVISION REPRODUCTION, a better understanding of hovr to produce sulfa drugs, and a better means of meas­uring X-ray waves a million times smaller than a visible light wave may result from three research projects being carried out here. 
The projects are financed by SI 6,500 giv­en to Notre Dame by the Research Corpor­ation, a non-profit corporation with offices in New York, Cliicago. and Los Angeles. 
Five Notre Dame scientists are engaged in the projects. 
SEVE.N^ STUDEiVTS and one alumnus of the Department of Architecture won re­cognition for designs submitted in the re­cent Small Mission Church Competition sponsored by the National Catholic Build­ing Convention and Exposition. The con­test was conducted to encourage functional and economical designing of rural parish churches. The entries were judged at St. Joseph's College, Rensselaer, Ind. 
THE NOTRE DAME NAVAL R.O.T.C. rifle team won the 1949 Secretary of the Navy Trophy symbolic of excellence in small aims iiiisg^ among college and uni­versity Naval R.O.T.C. rifle teams. The local riflemen scored 1406 out of a pos­sible 1500 points to turn in the highest score ever made at the annual Secretary of Navy Riile Match. 
Donald J. Murphy, of New York City, a student in the College of Commerce, won the individual marksmanship champion­ship. 
Earlier in the year the local team won the national championship among naval tmits in the William Randolph Hearst 
R.O.T.C. rifle matches. 
TODAY 
THE FIRST WRITER'S CONFER­ENCE ever held here was exceptionally suc­cessful. Sixtj'-four writers and potential writers from all parts of the United States gathered for a week of sessions in the crafts­manship of writing the novel, short story, and poetr)*. 
A LOCAL SCIENTIST, Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell, received a 57,200 grant from the National Cancer Institute to continue his research in cancer. 
CONGRESS is being asked to make offi­cial a new "Pledge to the Flag" proposed by Dean Clarence E. Manion, of the Col­lege of Law. The pledge is based on the Declaration of Independence and is aimed at combatting secularism. 
It reads: "I, (Name), citizen of the United States, hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal and endowed by their Creator with certain un­alienable rights, that among these are life, libert)', and the pursuit of happiness. That, to secure these rights, my government, rep­resented by that flag, was instituted among men: and to that government and to that flag of the United States, I pledge my un­dying allegiance." 
The Cover 

The Chemistry Library is more familiar to older alumni as the old Post Ofiice, which for years, with the Porter's Lodge, marked the entrance to the Main Quadrangle. After several fires and explosions threatened the valuable collection of books and periodicals in the Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Librar>-, the old Post Office building was moved to its present site adjoining Chemis­tr}' Hall, and provides a verj- small and temporary, but safer and separated, hous­ing for this collection. Among the books and bound periodicals are many secured by the late Father Nieuwland which are practically irreplaceable. 
He made this observation at the annual meeting oi the Illinois-Indiana section of the American Society for Engineering Ed­ucation held here. Other speakers included 
C. I. Freund, dean of engineering at the University of Detroit and president of the American Society for Engineering Educa­tion, and N. W, Dougherty, dean of engi­neering at the University of Tennessee. 
A DRUG used for centuries in the treat­ment of gout is being used now to produce larger and more vigorous plants according to guest scientists at a biology seminar here. Dr. O. J. Eigsti, of Northwestern, and Dr. Pierre Dustin, of the University of Brussels, discussed the action of the drug colchicine. 
TWO ENTERPRISING N. D. SENIORS parlayed a beer mug and a sticker into a profitable after-school-hours business. Joe Connelly and Bill Leonard learned the trick of making college seals look as though they had been boked into the side of pottery mugs. They turned more than 
2.000 plain mugs into souvenirs, and mar­keted their wares at Holy Cross, Fordham, DePaul, Purdue, Indiana U., Ohio State, Northwestern, and, of cotuse, Notre Dame. The business paid their college room and board bills and left them with some pock­et money besides. 
THE DOCKWEILER MEDAL for Phi­losophy, awarded here for many years, has been perpetuated by the sum of $1,000 be­queathed to the University in the will of the late Isidore B. Dockweilcr. 
THE SECOND ANNUAL CathoUc Broad­casters convention, held July 29. 30 and 31 at Notre Dame, took on an international aspect Guest speaker was Donald Ait­water, noted British author and BBC brood-caster. William J. Murphy, '27, NBC script chief in Chicago, was one of the experts present. 
All phases of broodcasting, ranging from the point of view of the radio station managers to the theological aspects of apologetical programs, were discussed in panel groups at the convention. Television techniques were studied this year for the first time by the Catholic broadcasters. 
"THE TROUBLE with most students to­day is that they are not ignorant enough." 
This opinion was ventured July 13 by Dr. Mortimer J. Adier, Professor of the Philoso­phy of Law at the University of Chicago in an address before students and faculty at Notre Dame. 
"Instead of being ignorant, most students have erroneous opinions," Dr. Adler ex­plained. "The person who is ignorant doesn't know, and he knows that he doesn't know. The person in error doesn't know, but he doesn't know that he doesn't know. Before you can give knowledge to a person in er­ror, you must get rid of the error. The problem of eradicating the error doesn't ex­ist in the ignorant person, since he knows he doesn't know and so is more easily given knowledge." 
Dr. Adler, who spoke on "Knowledge and 
Opinion," defined the man with knowledge as one who knows and knows he knows, while the man with true opinion is one who knows and doesn't know that he Iinows. 
THE APPOINTMENT OF Bev. Gerald B. Phelem. PhJ). F,BJS.C., to succeed Bar. Philip S. Moore. CS. C PhJ)., Azchiv.-Palaeog., as head of the Depaitraent oi Philosophy at the University wo* announc­ed. Father Moore continues as dean of the Graduate SchooL 
Since 1942. when Father Moore became Head of the Department of Pliilosophy. thia department has steadily grown, until to­day it embraces a faculty of 25 membeia, teaching 2,500 undergTodaale students. Graduate work in philosophy also hoa greatly expanded, with approximately 25 students currently carrying on programs of study and research towards advanced degrees in philosophy. 
Father Phelan resigned his position as president of the Pontifical bstitate of Me­diaeval Studies in Toronto in 1946 and came to Notre Dome to inaugurate, or­ganize and direct the Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame. He will continue as direct­or of the Mediaeval Institute. 
Bev. Bernard L MuUaby, CJ5.C S.TX» PhJ>.. has been named assistant to the head of the depcstment to aid Father Phe­lan. Father Mullahy is a native of Fitch­burg, Mass., and a graduate of the Gre­gorian University in Borne. He obtained his doctoral degree at Laval University in Quebec 
The University's Associate Board oi Lay Trustees and two advisory councils, the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering and the Advisory Council {or Commerce, held their first joint meeting on the campus on May 20 ond 21. The three gronpa normally hold separate meetings twice ecch year. They are picttired here in front of the Dining HaU. 
Top Row: Mr. Verity, Mr. Cole, Jack P. Wh!t-C. Roy McCanna, Timothy P. Galvin, E. C. Kleid-James Coston, Dean Karl Schoenherr, WiUiam P. aker, Robert E. Dw>-cr, Lee Gary, Dean James erer. Dean L- H. Baldinger, Edward J. Quinn, Feeley, Bernard J. Voll, Father John Burke. McCarthy, Richard Dougherty, Kerwin Fulton, Edward J. Doyle. 
1st Row: O. J. Caron, John T. Kirby, Jolin C. 
Earle C. Smith, Bradley Dewey, Dr. William Cal­2nd Row: Father Philip Moore, Colonel Dan Tully, Harold Vancx, Cliarles Reagan, Edgar Kobak, cott, James C. Daley, Robert L. Hamilton. 
Martin, John Coleman, Frank C. Walker, Joseph Father John Cavanaugh, E. M. Morris, Fattier 
3rd Row: William H. Harrison, John Murphy, B>Tne, Jr., Walter Duncan, Joseph LaFortune, Ar­Thomas Steiner, Judson Sayre, Father Johit Murpbr, 
Robert H. Gore, William R. Daley, James Gerity, thur Schmitt, Dr. Constantine SfcGuire, Peter C. Thomas W. Pangbom, James M. Haggar, Bnid 
Charles Hook, Byron Kanaley, Peter C. Reilly, Jr., Reilly, Sr., Leiand Stanford, William K. Warren, Storey, Robert H. O'Brien, Daniel P. Higgins. 
Alumni Board Meeting Perfects Pattern 
Major Considerations: Enrollment, Endowment, Prestige 
The ALUMNUS will assume the propor­tions of the Congressional Record if it under­takes to cover the varied and thorough handling of alumni affairs by the active and representative Board of Directors now func­tioning. 
Father Cavanaugh has expressed the view that three major considerations should moti­vate all Notre Dame programs—enrollment, endowment, and prestige. Taking off from this broad triumvirate of incentives, the 
Board has developed a detailed that will go far toward effecting in all. 
The endowment program is encompassed in the No­tre Dame Foundation. And the Board recognizing that the Foundation was spon­sored by alumni, is staffed largely by alimini in the field, and depends for its 
 program  progress 
Universit)- program has been handicapped, but has been sufiBcient to indicate the merit of the alumni recommendations. At the present, vocational counseling is a planned supplement to the testing and guidance pro­gram now well established under Edward 
R. Quinn, '28, at Notre Dame. Undergrad­uate job placement has been operated from the office just \'acated by Father Robert Sweeney, and efforts on the undergraduate level have always been supplemented in re­cent years by the work done through the Alumni Office and the placement commit­tees in the Clubs. 

Seventh Alumni Fund News 
6,973 alumni contributed in 1948. Up to Jul7 20, only 4,869 alumni 
have contributed. Of these, some 1,600 ore non-1948 contributors. So activity on alumni partici­that more than 3,500 alumni who contributed in 1948 hare not yet pation, has left this pro­contributed in 1949. When their contributions come in. the 1949 7th 
gram to the Foundation directors with a resolution Annual Fund will break all existing N. D. records and moTe us again 
of appreciation and en­into the top national participation bracket. dorsement, and has turned its own attention to the In amount, on July 20, the aliunni contributors had giTen $188,902,58 
other phases of the de­in 1949 as against only S12I,457.92 in 1948 on the same date, an IN­manding program. CREASE of almost 50 percent in amoimt If the participation yet to come in NUMBERS holds up the increased per capita AMOUNT, the 
Enrollment is not an whole picture for 1949 will reflect a record alumni year. 

emergency measure of stu­dent solicitation. Demand This is the year to do it! News from the University Budget Com­still runs well ahead of 

mittee indicates that the fiscal year 1949-50 will show 
supply. But the Board, in 

breaking operating deficit. An tmhappy corrolloiy for 
conference with the regis­

record-breaking opporiimities. 
trar. Rev. Louis J. Thorn­
ton, C.S.C., expressed the willingness of alumni to cooperate with the Uni­versity on request in perfecting a program of selection, to assure a capacity enrollment of representative young men. 
The Board then turned to the projects which command the immediate attention of alumni, which are not yet sufficiently ad­vanced. 
One of these, nominally in operation, is the Placement Program. For years, the Aliunni Association has made an effort through Local Clubs and individual alumni to assist graduates in securing employment. And in an informal way, largely channel­ing through Bill Dooley, many alumni have made contacts successfully. 
The consensus of all studied thinking, however, has been embodied in two reports by alumni analysts, and places the major burden of successful job placement on the undergraduate counseling and placement service maintained by the University. In the absence of funds and personnel, the 
Summary of the Alumni Board opinion is that the immediate future will demand much more in the line of placement activ­ity than has been the case in recent years, and that whatever the University and the Alumni Association plan to do must be done now if the best interests of alumni are to be served. The Board appropriated funds for a study of what other schools are doing and is determined that Notre Dame men will not be handicapped in a competitive job shortage. 
Another vital project that was not pre­sented in detail, but which supplements the Foundation program, placement, enrollment and most other phases of Notre Dame pro­gress, was President Francis Wallace's pro­posal for a Prestige Program, to be headed by a committee of nationally influential alumni and friends in the channels of com­munication which largely mold American public opinion. 

In summary, the Alumni Board is con­vinced that Notre Dame is a great Uni­versity. It is equally aware that this is not known to the public, in fact not known sufficiently to many alumni, so rapid has been much recent development. The pro­gram to interpret this greatness cannot be left to the processes of evolution in an aca­demic world where the leaders are using intensive programs of public relations. 
Most eloquent testimony to Wallace's soundness is the fact that M. I. T., embark­ing on a $20,000,000 program in 1950, has just announced such a prestige program. 
a lecord­a year of 
So that you may know how varied and how busy the Board has been, the ALUMNUS has to resort to almost the stream-of-con­sciousness technique: The Alumni Board— 
Approved asking Local Clubs for $900 to put sound track on Van Wal­lace film of his trip to Lourdes to be shown to Clubs . . . proposed a Council of Local Club Presidents for the June, 1950, Reunion Week to promote Local Club pro­gress . . . defined the serv­ices of the Alumni Office and Athletic Departments in regard to football films, approving the Highlights as alumni service without fee, and sanctioning indi­vidual coach and game film arrangements as being strictly an Athletic Depart­

ment program, which should be cleared through aliunni channels when alumni or alumni organizations are involved . . . sug­gested Club use of television during foot­ball season . . . heard Vice-President Louis 
F. Buckley propose a program for revitaliz­ing and making more universal the Class Secretaries program, particularly as reflected in the ALUMNUS. 
Approved the principle of separating the Reunion Weekend from Commencement . . . approved Universal Communion Sunday on Dec. 11 and asked that the theme of sci­ence and religion be stressed with Notre Dame priest-alumni preaching on this topic . . . recommended closer undergraduate re­lations, especially with the campus class offi­cers . . . approved an extra "trainee" staff member to tmderstudy the aging incumbents . . . approved as an activity for the Mono­gram Club a proposed reunion of the Four Horsemen in the fall honoring their 25th 
anniversary of fame . . . approved a revi­sion of the constitution and possibly a set of by-laws to implement the rapidly expand­ing program . . . elected 34 non-graduate applicants for membership . . . defined the policy of the use of the Association mailing list . . . asked for more information from the University on (a) awards in which the Association is named (b)\ business relations with alumni (c) policies affecting under­graduates with alumni implications . . . com­mended the Law Alumni Association and the Monogram Club for their advancement of alumni activity and benefits. 
All this and more—and with thorough and most helpful discussion of detail. This labor of love by your Board is deeply appre­ciated at the University, and should be also by each alumnus, the actual beneficiary. 
Considers Human Existence 

Man's Last End, an investigation into the end and purpose of human existence on the natural plane, written by Rev. Joseph Buck­ley, S.M., M.A., '47, has lately been pub­lished by the B. Herder Book Co. Many alumni, especially those who knew the pop­ular Father Buckley as a teacher and grad­uate student at Notre Dame, will welcome the new volume. It is priced at $3.50. 
Ordained jn Rome in 1931, Father Buck­ley in the same year received his doctorate in sacred theologj', summa cum laude, from the Angelico in Rome. From 1931 until 1934 he taught in Marist College, Washing­ton, D. C , and since 1934, with the excep­tion of the war years and his time at the University, has taught theology and ethics at Notre Dame Seminary, New Orleans. For the present summer Father Buckley is on the faculty at Notre Dame (Indiana). 
A war chaplain. Father Buckley served in New Guinea and the Philippines and took part in four invasions. He holds the Bronze Star Medal. 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BUDGET Proposed for 1949-50 
(N.B. The following Budget, proposed 
by the Board to carry out the pro­gram of the Association, in line with the new budget policy of the Uni­versity, indicates that we are ; no long­er small-time.) 
Salaries (8 full time and 
several part-time em­$26,500 
Oifice expenses, including 
travel, postage, moving 
pictures, etc 15,000 
Council, Club Presidents 
and Placement Study .. 6,250 
1,500 
Total Budget 1949-50 $49,250* 
•The ALUMNUS, budgeted for ^10,000, is in­cluded in Univenity Publications rather than in the Assodation budget proper. but is con­
sidercd by the Board as a cost of alumni operation. 

The Notre Dame Club of Cindnnali. represented by Albert Ol Coslelliai. tL adds SIOOO to its club scholarship fund ot the UniTersitr. Ber. leha H, HmphT' CS.C vice-president received the check from Vb. CosteUim at the Alumni Bennion. 
Father John Lane Is President of King's College 
Rev. James W. Connerton, CS.C , vice-provincial of the eastern vice-province of the Priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross, announced late in July that he was being succeeded as president of King's College, Wilkes-Barre, Pa., by Rev. John J. Lane, CS. C Father Connerton, who had been both vice-provincial and president of King's College since the foundation of the new vice-province in May, 1948, will continue to reside in Wilkes-Barrc. 
Father Lane, the second president of King's College, was made its dean last year after twelve consecutive years of adminis­trative oflSce in other schools of the Con­gregation. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1930 and was ordained to the priesthood in 1934. Following two years of additional graduate study at Notre Dame, the new president was successively principal of Columbia Preparatory School, Portland, Ore.; vice-president of St. Edward's Uni­versity, Austin, Tex.; and assistant director of studies and director of veterans' affairs at Notre Dame. 
Father Connerton announced also that Rev. William S. Scandlon, CS.C , vice-president of King's College since its incep­tion three years ago, had been recalled by his provincial for special assignment in the Indiana province, of which he is a member. Rev. Leo W. Gorman, CS.C , will assiune Father Scandlon's duties as vice-president. Rev. George F. DePrizio, CS.C , director of studies at St. George's College, Santiago, Chile, will succeed Father Lane as dean of the college. 
Other changes at King's College include the return to the faculty, after absences of one year and one-half year respectively, of Rev. Francis J. O'Hara, CS.C, professor of Biology, and Rev. Henry E. Malone, CS.C , instructor of Speech. Additions to the faculty will be Rev. James J. Sheehan, CS.C , instructor in Chemistry, and Rev. William H. Donahue, CS.C, instructor in Biology. 
Rev. Thomas J. Lane, CS.C, of the fac­ulty in Chemistry, and Brother Sergius, CS.C , manager of the Book Store, have been transferred to Stonehill College, North Easton, Mass., and Rev. Peter F. Mueller, CS.C, instructor in Modem Languages, to St. George's College, Santiago, Chile. 
Father Connerton also disclosed the ap^ pointment of Rev. Leo F. Flood, CS.C, to be vice-president of Stonehill College. Fath­er Flood had been pastor of Sacred Heart Church, New Orleans. Rev. Daniel M. Glea­son, CS.C , has been chosen as master of novices for Holy Cross Novitiate, North Dartmouth, Mass. 
DooleyTalbtoAAC 

William R. Dooley, '26, assistant secre­tary of the Alumni Association and manag­ing editor of the ALUMNUS, was one of the speakers at the annual conference of the American Alimini Council held at Williams­burg, Va., July 11-14. His topic was "The Role of the Magazine in the Alumni Pro­gram." The AAC is the professional organi­zation comprising alimmi office executives from all parts of the United States and Canada. Its anntial conference this year was under the sponsorship of the College of Wil­liam and Mary and next year's conference in Cambridge, Mass., will be sponsored by Har­vard University. 
14 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
^ofi, Uie liMi time. . . . 
Degrees Awarded in Stadium 
Men trained for moral and intellectual leadership is one of the vital needs of the world "in this crucial timr when Christen­dom is confronted by the enemy determined to destroy it," John S. Burke, of New York City, declared on June 3 as he delivered the principal address at the 104th Commence­ment for 804 degree recipients. 
For the first time, the Commencement as well as the Baccalaureate Mass were held in the stadium in order to accommodate the families and friends of the large graduating class. Estimated crowds of 4,500 and 6,000 were present in the morning and afternoon, respectively. Perfect 70-degrce weather fa­vored the throngs. 
(Had the weather been inclement either the Mass or the Commencement or both would have been held in the Drill Hall. Two persons per graduate would have been admitted'by especially assigned tickets.) 
Mr. Burke, who is president of the B. Altman and Company department store in New York City and a leading Catholic lay­man, was awarded an honorary doctorate of laws degree by Notre Dame at the exercises. Others who received honorar>- degrees at the ceremonies were the Rev. Paul Bussard of St. Paul, Minn., editor of The Catholic Digest, who delivered the baccalaureate ser­mon, and George W. Strake, prominent Houston, Tex., oil producer. Catholic lay­man and member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame. Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, celebrated the Baccaluareate Mass. 
Mr. Burke, speaking on "The Quality of the Person," told the new Notre Dame grad­uates that "men coming from centers of Catholic truth, trained for moral and intel­lectual leadership, will not be content to sit by the side of the road lamenting that 'the time is out of joint.' Rather will they move into action wherever their lot is cast. . . . Confident that ultimate human strength is in the soul of man, together with all who love and fear God, they will stand firm against the common enemy of mankind while his onsets shatter themselves against the armament of Faith, Truth and Justice," Mr. Burke declared. 
The speaker stressed that the Notre Dame graduates have a "sublime resposibility to live an active Catholic life in your conmiun­ity." He.pointed out that they should "par­ticipate fully in works there concerned with the common good so that your life will be a leaven in the life of that community, lifting the level, broadening the understanding, commanding, from your example, respect for the Church of which you are a member and interest in the truths She teaches." 
Mr. Burke told the graduating class that the "qualitj- of the person" ranks highest, whether or not it is accompanied by a col­lege degree. He cited as examples the careers 
Professor Bollison receives the annual Lay Faculty Aword from Father Cavanaugh. 
of an unknown servant girl, responsible for the conversion of her employers, and of Alfred E. Smith, former governor of New York, both of whom without college train­ing served well God and fellowmean. 

"An unknown servant girl, a. man famous because of his own intrinsic greatness—^both without-any trace of. college training," Mr. Burke continued. "Vividly each of these ex­amples sears into our living memory an en­during truth enforced by all history and all hiunan experience: nothing can take the place of the quality of the person. 
"Except for a few of you, life will not be lived in the solitudes but amidst the tur­moil and ambition of men. There the gold of life is often surrounded, and sometimes obscured, by the dross of indifference and inaction. Vigilance and perserverance are vi­tal if the hope which you have is to be ful­filled, of gathering that gold without soiling your heart or your hands. 
"But keeping yourself so unspotted does not mean that you may rationalize from that desire avoidance of external action. The light and truth you have are not treasures to be locked tight in your heart as in a safe deposit vault. They are a spiritual capital entrusted to you, for your own good, to be sure, but with a deed of trusts that imposes a duty so to use that capital that it will re­produce itself in the hearts of others." 
Father Bussard, in his baccalaureate ser­mon, emphasized the need for Catholic daily newspapers in some of the larger cities in the United States. 
"Before the Communists conquered China there were six Catholic daily newspapers published by a single person in Chinese," Father Bussard pointed out. "In Holland where there are about three million Catho­lics, there are at present five dailies. Or to come closer to home, in these United States we have over one hundred subversive pub­lications—^that is, over one hundred publi­cations that are working to overthrow our government by force. If the Communists can 
Before 64X0, John S. Burke delivers the first Commencement address ever given in the Notre Dame Stadium. He is facing the south end of the stadium Rev. Paul Bussard. the preacher. 
do that much, why have Catholics less abil­
ity, less know-how, fewer numbers?" 
Father Bussard expressed the view that the reason there is no Catholic daily news­paper in the United States is because the "laity have been expecting a daily to be handed down to them by the hierarchy" and "have thought of it as something they would be given to support, rather than pro­duce. 
"They have been under the wrong impres­sion that a Catholic paper must be operated by priests or bishops since they are the ones who administer the sacraments," Father Bussard explained. "It is a very wrong im­pression and we should have known better, at least since 1866. In that year the Second Plenary Council of Baltimore was in session. One of its published decrees . . . says with complete clarity that the , bishops want to exercise only a negative control over a pub­lication. The laymen are to be left complete­ly free as long as they publish nothing con­trary to faith or morals. Moreover, a publi­cation is 'official' only insofar as it carries official documents signed by the ordinary." 
Father Bussard, although explaining that there are today about four hundred Catho­lic publications with an estimated circula­tion of about fourteen million people, there is a definite need for at least • twenty to . thirty good Catholic-dailies in the-United States. 
Prof. William D. RoUison, of the College of Law, was named at the Commencement as the 1949 recipient of the Lay Faculty Award for distinguished service during the 1948-49 schoolyear. 
The award, which carries a $500 purse, is made annually by the Notre Dame Alum­ni Association. Last year's award went to Prof. Henry C. F. Staunton, of the Depart­ment of English, who retired this year and will reside in Binghamton, N. Y. 
Professor Rollison, who has been a mem­ber of the faculty since 1930, has specialized in the field of wills. He is the author of a book. The Law of Wills, which stresses the 
historical background of the law of wills, playwriting. The award is given to the stu­descent and distribution. dent who writes the best play of the year. -- Walter W. Gunkel, of Chicago, was given 
Professor Rollison received his Bachelor the Zahm prize for aeronautical engineering, of Laws degree from Indiana University in established by Dr. Albert J. Zahm. The 1921 and his Bachelor of Arts degree from 
the same university in 1925. He was award­
Hoynes award, estaUished by the late CoL ed a Master of Laws degree from Harvard 
William J. Hoynes, awarded to the law University in 1930, and prior to joining the school senior with the best record in scholas­Notre Dame faculty served on the law fac­tic grades,' application, deportment and ulty at the University of Alabama. achievement, was awarded to William V. 
Phelan, of Iowa Falls, la. 
Awards and prizes were distributed at the 
annual Class Day exercises held on Saturday The John J. Hogan memorial prize for morning, June 3, in the Drill Hall. law, given by Harry English of Cleveland^ in inemory of Jcim J. Hogan of Decatur, 
B. Patrick CosteUo, of Pleasant Unity, IlL, was awarded to Joseph V. Wilco^ of Pa., senior class president introduced the Hastings, Mich., %Ao had the second-high­speakers at the ceremonies. William W. 
est scholastic average in the June graduating PfalT, III, of Columbus, Ga., delivered the class. Robert F. Bums, of South Bend, was class oration and George R. Schrodt, of given the Farabaugh prize, given by Gallit-Louisville, Ky., gave the valedictory address. 
zan A. Farabaugh, South Bend attorney, to 
Medals for public debate were awarded to the graduate of the law school with the Francis Finn, Jr., of Denison, Texas; Thom­third highest scholastic average in his class. as R. Ninneman, of Tomah, Wis., and Wil­
John J. Beyerie, of Cleveland, and John liam Carey, of Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Mowbray, of Bradford, HL, were recipients 
The Meehan medal for literary merit was of the Vint D. Vaughan memorial prizes presented to William H. Slavick, of Bartlett, for law, awrarded for proficiency in moot Tenn. F. Fallon Evans, of Denver, Colo., court trial practice. The awards are given received the Mitchell memorial award for (Continued on Page 22) 
Graduates and faculty, the ministers ol the solenm BaeeoIoiiiMil* Moaa and tha Hob* Dame Band all gather at the norih and ol tha ^adfam lor tha raising of tha flag following tha 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

from June to September at Syracuse Uni­versity in the studio of the great man from Yugoslavia, who in 1947 was given the first and only one-man show ever sponsored for a living artist by the Metropolitan Mu­seum of Art, New York City. 
On Sept. 16, Father Lauck will sail for Rome and will for some months travel and study in Italy, France and England. 
Father Lauck, whose home city is Indi­anapolis, studied at the Jolin Herron .\rt School there and later at Cranbrook Acad­emy with Carl Millcs, noted Swedish-American sculptor. For two years he pur­sued special studies with the sculptor Heinz Wamcke of the Corcoran School of .^rt in Washington D. C, and in one exhibit in the Corcoran Gallery was the only exhibitor to receive two awards. His work, paintings as well as sculpture, have been shown by the 
(Continued on next page, column three) 

/I G, S. G PfOedt-ZJlumHiU . . . 
Wins Acclaim As Sculptor 
A Notre Dame alumnus, graduated mag­na cum laude in 1942 and ordained to the priesthood in 1946, has won international recognition as one of the most gifted sculp­tors of his time. 
Rev. Anthony J. Lauck. CS.C. 
He is Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, CS.C. These are just two ways in which Father Lauck has lately been recognized: The Third Sculpture International, con­ducted at the Philadelphia Museum of Art from May 15 to Sept 11, is called "the most selective of contemporary art shows." It it held only once in a matter of years: the first International was in 1933, the second in 1940. Its purpose is to exhibit the con­temporary sculpture in order to select sculp­tors who will be commissioned to complete a memorial in Philadelphia. The memorial, as the result of the will of Ellen Phillips Sam­uels, consists of 'statuary emblematic of the Tiistorj- of America ranging in time from the 
•earliest settlers in America to the present •era." 
Commissions aggregating $94,000 were awarded in 1933 and 1940, and as a result of the 1949 show, commisions totaling about §45,000 will, it is expected, be awarded, plus a discretionary use of the sum of $20,000 for the purchase of works from the exhibition. 
Works for the Third Sculpture Interna­tional were submitted b>' invitation only and were limited to 270 items by living Ameri­can sculptors and 30 items by sculptors liv­ing abroad. K total of 1,800 entries were received, but only 250 of these finally passed the selection committee. 
One of the entries admitted to the exhibit was that of Father Lauck. Carved in Indi­ana black walnut, his St. John Beside the natural wood of the log from which the figure was car\-ed. Father Lauck received high commendation for his work from Hen­ri Marceau, chairman of the committee on selection for the Third Sculpture Interna­tional. 
.^nd Father Lauck was more recently rec­ognized by Ivan Mestrovic, "one of the two most noted sculptors in the world today," who personally sent an invitation to work and study with him this summer. No other artist has been accorded this privilege. .\nd so the young priest is spending the months 

Cross stands some ten feet high, its base the SeTeries." an oil portrait by Father Laudc indicates the versatility ol his art 
KiMma AtuUMMceA . . . 
Four Academic Appointments 
county board of aviation commissioners, and George N. Beamer, '29, is a board member (Beamer also is chairman of the state avia­tion commission). The board directed the building and dedication of the terminal. Roy A. Worden, '28, was the construction architect for the building and Vincent F. Fagan, '20, along with Frank Montana, an­other former member of the Notre Dame architecture faculty, were in charge of the design of the structure. Charles W. Duke, '38, is manager of the airport. 
Prominent in the dedication of the termi­nal was Mayor George A. Schock, '18, of South Bend, along with his four-year-old granddaughter, Kathleen Ann Tinny, daugh­ter of James R. Tinny, '41. Mary Theresa Voll, daughter of Bernard J. Voll, '17, had another part in the dedication program. 
National Museum in Washington, the Na­tional Academy of Design and Audubon Artists in New York, the Pennsylvania Acad­emy of Fine Arts, the Art Association of Newport, and the Provincetown Art Asso­ciation. 
*'0 Lord. That We May See." a earring in chetiy wood by Father Louck which re­ceiTed awards in seTeral nationol and regional exhibits. 
Appointment of a new assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters and three new department heads was announced on July 24 by Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C, vice-president in charge of academic aiTairs. 
Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C, is the new assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. New department heads announced are Prof. Paul A. Beck, acting head of the Department of Metallurgy; Dr. Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, head of the Department of Education; and Dr. Adolph G. Strandagen, head of the Department of Engineering Me­chanics. 
Father Beichner, a native of Franklin, Pa., succeeds Prof. Louis Hasley, of the De­partment of English, as assistant dean. Prof. Hasley will devote his full time to teaching. 
Father Beichner, who has been assistant head of the Department of English, received his bachelor of arts and master's degree from Notre Dame and his doctorate from Yale University. He was a research fellow at Yale in 1944, and has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1945. 
Prof. Beck, a native of Budapest, Hung­ary, succeeds Dr. E. G. Mahin, retired, as head of the Department of Metallurgy. Prof. Beck, who has been a member of the No­tre Dame faculty since 1946, was graduated from the Royal Hungarian University of Technical Sciences and received a master's degree from the Michigan College of Min­ing and Technology. After doing further re­search work at the Kaiser Wilhelm Insti­tute in Berlin and at the University of Paris, he served as superintendent of the metal laboratory of the Cleveland Graphite Bronze Co. and as chief metallurgist of the Beryl­lium Corp. in Reading, Pa., before coming to Notre Dame. 
Dr. Kohlbrenner, who first joined the fac­ulty in 1929, succeeds Dr. Leo F. Kuntz as head of the Department of Education. Dr. Kuntz will devote his full time to teach­ing. Dr. Kohlbrenner received both his bachelor of arts and master's degrees from Syracuse University and his doctorate from Har\'ard University. A native of Syracuse, 
N. Y., Dr. Kohlbrenner was on the faculties of Syracuse University and St. Mary's Col­lege in Winona, Minn., before coming to Notre Dame. 
Dr. Strandhagen, who has been on the Notre Dame faculty since 1946, succeeds Dr. Charles O. Harris, who recently resigned as head of the Department of Engineering Mechanics. Dr. Strandhagen received a 
B.S.E. in naval architecture and marine en­gineering degree at the University of Michi­gan in 1939. He also received a B.S.E. in mechanical engineering, a M.S.E. in engi­neering mechanics and a doctorate in en­gineering, all from the University of Michi­gan. 
<r^^^<i>^^ 
Professor Analyzes Newspaper 
"A politician may some day bribe an edi­tor to berate him in print," writes Edward Fischer, assistant professor of Journalism, in an article appearing recently in America, national Catholic magazine. 
"Paradoxically enough," writes Professor Fischer, "it seems that newspaper censure is now a better omen than newspaper support. Such support, once eagerly sought has be­come a kiss of death, a jin.\ that few seekers for public office can sur\'ive." 
Professor Fischer attributes this to many reasons, three of which he enumerates. First, he writes, the press has lost the confidence of the common man. 
"It has not kept pace with the education­al progress of its readers," he writes, "and it has become so engrossed in entertaining that it has slipped in its function of inform­ing and interpreting." 
The second reason on Professor Fischer's list is the failure of publishers in their own employee relationship. Higher wages are paid to mechanical workers in newspaper plants than to the editorial employees, Fischer points out. This leads many Grade A men to leave newspaper work for other higher paying positions, he pointed out. 
Third of his reasons is the failure of jour­nalism schools. "Schools of journalism have let them down," he writes. "These schools have laid too much stress on technical train­ing and not enough on the broad cultural 
background that Grade A newspapermen 
need." 
Professor Fischer urges journalism students 
to learn more about economics, sociology, 
histor>', art, politics and literature. The fact 
that they do not is one of the main reasons 
that newspapers have the educational flaw 
that leads them to put so much stress on en­
tertainment. Professor Fischer pointed out 
that there are signs that journalism schools 
are learning this lesson. 
"But will publishers ever pay enough to their editorial employees to hold the top flight men that schools of journalism train for them? Will they change their attitude toward labor, so that the common man will come to feel that the editors and publishers arc his friends?" These are the §64 ques­tions, says-the-Notre Dame professor. .. \ 
Alumni Aid S. B. Airport 

Running "competition" with the Alumni Reunion over the weekend of June 10-12 was the dedication of the $600,000 terminal at the St. Joseph County Airport at South Bend. 
And yet the dedication of the impressive new structure, rated tops of its type in the country, was hardly "competition" at all; in fact, the airport festivities could with reason have been included in the Alumni Reunion program. Consider this lineup of Notre Dame alumni who were leaders in the building of the new terminal. 
.Albert McGann, '25, is president of the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

ATHLETICS • • 
Teams representing the Universitj" in four spring sports came through in good st>-le to chalk up an overall record of 34 victories and onl>- 16 defeats. 
Topping the outdoor competition was Coach Jake Kline's Notre Dame baseball tcain, which for the first time in histor>' rep­resented the University in the NCAA play­offs. The team won 18 and dropped six games during regular season play, thus gain­ing, the. bid for the tourney. 
.The Irish were selected along with Wes­tern Michigan, Purdue and Indiana to battle for the midwest district title. Notre Dame, behind the one hit pitching of Walt Mahan­nah, nipped Purdue, 1 to 0, in the opening playoff contest, while Western Michigan ivas disposing of Indiana. Then in the midwest championship game, the Irish beat Western Michigan for the third time during the 1949 season to advance to the regional meet. 
Notre Dame was host to the powerful Wake Forest Demons in the regional playoff for the right to enter the final four-team tourney at Wichita, Kans. Walt Mahannah 
•was the victim of the heavy-hitting Demons in the first of a best two-of-three game series, 4 to 1, and Wake Forest advanced to the final tourney by pounding out a 10 to 7 win over Notre Dame in the second con­test. The Demons, incidentally, went all the way to the final game of the national tour­ney before losing in the championship game to the Universit)- of Texas. 
Two other Notre Dame spring teams had identical records of six victories in nine starts. Father George Holderith's Irish golf­ers and Coach Walter Langford's tennis charges each were defeated only three times during spring competition. The tennis team lost only to Northwestern, Michigan and Michigan State, while the linksmen dropped a trio of matches to Northwestern, Indiana and Michigan. 
In the case of Father Holderith's golf team, individual brilliance came forth e\'en after the close of regular season play. Soph­omore Tom Veech turned in sensational golf to advance to the semi-finals of the NCAA tournament before being eliminated. 

The fourth of the spring sports team. Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy's track and field squadj broke even in a pair of duel contests. The Irish tracksters beat Missouri and Pittsburgh, --while losing to powerful Michigan State-andjPenn State. 
Outside of dual competition, the Irish cindermen copped five first places in the Southern Relays, won second place in the Central Collegiate meet, and walked off with the state meet held at Notre Dame. 
By RAYMOND J. DONOVAN, '42 games without defeat in the season opener in Notre Dame Stadium on September 24. 

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE Although Coach Frank Leahy probably would not agree, the Hoosiers do not figureSept. 24—Indiana at Notre Dame to show enough improvement over the 1948 Oct. 1—Washington at Seattle campaign to cause the Irish too much Oct. 8—Purdue at Lafayette 

trouble. Oct. 15—Tulane at Notre Dame 
The same might be said of Notre Dame's Oct. 22—Open 
second opponent, namely the University of Oct. 29—NaNy at Baltimore Washington. Although the sold-out sign al­Nov. 5—^Michigan State at Lansing ready has been hung out for the game at 
Nov. 12—N. Carolina at New York Seattle, few of the 40,000 who vnll be in attendance are going with the idea of seeing Nov. 19—Io%va at Notre Dame the Huskies spring an upset. 

Nov. 26—Southern Cal at N. D. From that point on in the schedule, how­
Dec. 3—S. Methodist at Dallas ever, the eight remaining opponents could spell trouble—^with the possible exception of Dr. Eddie .Anderson's Iowa Hawkcyes. And as regards the Hawkeyes, Irish fans still re­

FOOTBALL 

member the seasons of 1939 and 1940 when 
Members of Coach Frank Leahy's 1949 Iowa won t^vo successive games from Notre 
Notre Dame football team will return to Dame when they didn't figure to have much 
the campus early in September to prepare of a chance. 
for one of the toughest schedules ever faced After journeying to Seattle to face the by an Irish eleven. 
Washington Huskies on Oct. 1, the Irish Indiana's Hoosiers will have the job of eleven will stay on the road to meet Pur­trying to break Notre Dame's long string of (Continued on Page 43) 
FOOTBALL RALLIES 
(including dancing and entertainment) 
NEW YORK CITY 
Sponsor: Notre Dame Club of New York Time: Friday evening, Nov. 11 
Place: Hotel Biltmore, adjacent to Grand Central Terminal Price: $6.00 
Reservations, with checks, to: John A. Hoyt, Jr., Room 620, 342 Madison Ave., New York City 17 
(The New York Club will have Notre Dame headquarters at the Hotel Biltmore over the North Carolina game weekend and cor­dially invites all alumni to register there. The Biltmore has allo­cated one hundred rooms for out-of-town Notre Dame alumni. Write to the hotel reservations manager, referring to this notice) 
DALLAS 
Sponsor: Notre Dame Club of Dallas Time: Friday evening, Dec. 2 Place: Baker Hotel Price: $3.30 

Reservations, with checks, to: James L. Walsh, Jr., 910 Southwestern Life Building, Dallas. Early reservation suggested; capacity limited. 
ALUMNI 
Buffalo 
Most Rev. Joseph A. Burke, au-\il!ary bishop of Buffalo, and REV. LOUIS J. THORNTON, C.S.C, registrar of the University, were the club*s guests at the UND Night dinner held in early May at the Sheraton Hotel. Bishop Burke represented BISHOP JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C, who was in Rome. One hundred were present. 
BERNIE BIRD was the toastmaster. The com­
mittee in charge included DON COLGROVE, JIM 
CLAUSS and JACK SHINE. 
JOHN P. SHINE 

Central Illinois 
STEVE GRALIKER, Decatur, vice-president of the club, was elected president recently, succeeding DICK NEESON. LANDO HOWARD, JOHN LYNAUGH and TOM VICARS, all of SpringEeld, arc vice-president, secretary and treasurer, respec­tively. 
Albert D. Castellini, '24, (right) receives from Club President John C. Cottingham a scroll naming him as the "man of the year" in the Cincinnati Club. The presen­tation was made at the annual outing of the club on June 16. 
Dayton 
BOB RANEY, secretarj-, writes that the club had a picnic on June 23 to welcome new alumni into the club and to greet current Notre Dame students. Thirty were present. 
And Sccretar>' Raney had two engagements to re­port: that of Paz Martinez de Alva of Trenton, N. J., and TOM FRY, '48, now of Dayton, and that of Ruth Finke of Dayton and the secretary himself. 
Fort Wayne 
The club held a stag picnic June I at the farm home of ED WESNER, club president. 
RICHARD E. SCHELE and ROBERT KEAR­NEY served as co-chairmen of the event. Other members of the committee were ROY E. GRIM­MER, TYKE HARTMAN, JAMES KEEFER, JER­OME J. O'DOWD, TOM SUELZER, AUSTIN 
 CLUBS 
CENTLIVRE, ARTIE HOFFMAN, JAMES HOLT­HOUSE, TOM MCDONALD, JR., JIM POIN­SETTE and JOHN TRUEMPER. 
Fox River Valley {Wis.) 
Rev. GEORGE CLARIDGE, O. Praem., former graduate student at Notre Dame, was the chief speaker as the club obser\'ed Universal Notre Dame Night on April 25 in Appleton. Forty alumni from Oshkosh, Neenah, Alenasha, De Pere, Appleton and Green Bay were present. In charge of arrangements were WILLIAM FIEWEGER, JOSEPH FIEWEG­ER and ALBERT MUENCH, all of Neenah; DON­ALD SKALL, ROBERT LANGLOIS, ALVIN GLOUDEXL\NS and GUS ZUEHLKE, all of Appleton. 
Grand Rapids 
Rev. JOHN C. BURKE, C.S.C, instructor in Mathematics, and Prof. DONALD J. PLUNKETT of the Biolog>' Department were speakers from the campus as the dub met on Universal Notre Dame Night, April 25. 
Greater Miami 
On June the 8 at monthly meeting we had our annual election of officers and the follonins were elected: FRED JONES, M7, president; PARIS CO­WART, '32, vice-president; and JEROME HOL­LAND, *30, secretary-treasurer. 
Also at the meeting a Board of Directors was elected and the followini; men were elected to this Board: WALTER ROWLANDS, JOHN KOTTE, GEORGE BR/\UTIGAM, I. I. PROBST and JULES BERCIK. 
The club is now planning on attending two games this year, the S.M.U. game at Dalbs and the S.C. game at Notre Dame. We will fly to both of these games in a chartered plane owned by TOM and CHARLES aVRROLL, both N. D. men. 
HUGH MciL-\NIGAL is taking care of all the arrangements for the S.NLU. game and GEORGE BRAUTIGAM is taking care for the S.C. game. 
FRED JONES. 

-^ ^ -^ 
Hamilton, Ohio 
Club officers for the year, elected on May 10, tire Judge HARRY F. WALSH, president; ANDREW CHERNEY, vice-president, and DON CISLE, sec­retary-treasurer. TOM JACKSON was named chair­man for the club's annual steak fry in July. 
Houston 
Recently at a meeting of the club, the following officers were elected; CHARLES S. ATCHISON, president; THO^L•^S F. GREEN, vice president; LEIGHTON F. YOUNG, treasurer and LAW­RENCE J. KELLEY, Secretary. 
TOM STANDISH, outgoing president, along with his other officers, was given a vote of thanks by the club in appreciation for the work that the^r per­formed during the past year. 
Several committees were formed whose activities will be reported at a later date. A Communion-breakfast was held at the F!assionist Father's Retreat House just outside of Houston on Sunday, June 19. A group of approximately 30 attended, and we are looking forward to more of these gatherings which we believe are representative acti^^ties of a Notre Dame club. LARRY KELLEY. 
Indianapolis 
MIKE LAYDEN chairmaned the club's annual golf party, set for Aug. 4. Working with him were HE.\RY ENGEL, ED CUNNINGHAM, TOM FrrZGER.ALD, CLYDE BOWERS, JERRY SHINE, JOHN CAREY, JACK KIRBY, DON SULLIVAN, GEORGE O'CONNOR and JOE BECK. 
President NICK CONNOR in his attractive club bulletin, "On Down the Line", announces that PAT FISHER will once again handle the club's football specials this year, profits from which support the club scholarship to Notre Dame.. The dub will this year sponsor train trips to the Indiana, Tulajie, Southern California and North Carolina games. 
Chairmen of the dub's standing committees for the year are: MIKE LAYDEN, scholarship; JOHN O'Connor, membership — attendance; JOHN HAR-
Matt N. Smith, member of the class of 1888 and retiring president of the Hiawathaland Club, was honored by the club when it met at a dinner in Moiinette, VHs., on May 9. Vb. Smith, a pitcher on the baseball team in his student days, received a monogram blanket. In the picture from the left are: Henry Lauerman, Menominee, IGCIL. Bev. Howord Drolet. Escanaba, Mich.. Mr. Smith and tCchoel CHora. Menominee. 
New officers of the club ore Paul Kreuz, Menominee, president. lobn Wolsh. Jr.. Esca­naba, vice-president, tmd Robert SchmidL Esconoba. secrelory-treosaier. 
RINGTOX, finance; Mayor AL FEEXEY, religion and dlizenship; KARL. JOHNSOX, job consulting; BILL MOONEY. prep school contact and olumni­studcnt relations; £D FISHER, publidtv and public rcbtions; and JOHN FORD, athletic evenu. 
Kansas City 
Xew oCiccrs of the club are. ROBERT P. PEX­DERGAST, '35, president; GERARD J. SMITH, 
•26, «ce-presidcnt; WILLL\M J. SHARP, '37, secre­tan-, and JOSEPH E. MURRAY, '38, treasurer. 
Kentucky 
FATHER JOH.\ H. MURPHY, C.S.C., wee-president, was a special guest at a recent meeting of the club. He was in Louisville to address the Cath­olic P.T.A. 
The dub had its annual three-day retreat in late May at Gethsemani, the Trappist monastery near Louisville. An outing, at which the present Xotre Dame students will be guests, is another summer event on the dub calendar. 
Los Angeles 
1949 oHicets of the dub are EUGENE 0. CAL­HOU.V, '33, president; LOUIS BERARDI, '30, first vice-president; Dr. L. VLXCENT GORRILLA, '21, second vice-president, and BION VOGEL, '25, sec­retary and treasurer. 
MonongahelaValley [Pa.) 
The dub met on May 24 at tlie home of JIM RUSSELL, Donora. Twdve members and three guests were present. Russell gave a short report on the 1949 football team as it looked in the spring practice game of May 14. ED PALUSO and CHAR-

This year's $2,000, four-year Notre Dame Dame was presented to a 1949 graduate of John K. Schafer. 
LIE MONTGOMERY also looked in on the game 
and reported on the campus. ED DEAX reported on 
the work and progress of the Foundation. 
ED SEXDEK and JIM DEVLIX »-ant to re­institutc the prepared discussion tj-pe program, which was so interesting and instructive as well as enjoy­able, as a permanent part of this year's program. The formal program for the first half of the year was to end with our June meeting at Devlin's. The social events foi the summer are—family picnic and corn roast. C. R. MONTGOMERY. 
Memphis 
DEAX JAMES E. McCARTHY was the prindpal speaker on Universal Xotre Dame Night, April 25, when the dub observed U. X. D. Xight with a dinner at the University Club. PHIL M. CANALE, JR., president of the dub directed arrangements, assisted by G.ALVIX HUDSON, DONXELL McCORHL^CK, STURLA CAXALE, DORSEY MATHIS, JR., L. K. THOMPSON', JR., and T. F, DOHOGXE. 
Monroe, Mich. 
The recently organized Monroe dub gathered for Mass and Holy Conununion on Sunday, June 19, and later had breakfast at the Park Hotel. THOMAS 
E. GRIFFI.X, '33, is first president of the dub and CHARLES J. GOLDEX, '48, is secretary. Work in behalf of the Xotre Dame Foundation and espedally for the proposed new Sdence Building is planned by the group. 
Naugatuck Valley {Conn.\ 
FRAXK MURXAXE, president, and JIM SIGLI­AXO, treasurer, were each redected for third terms in recent dub balloting. JOHN' McGUIXNESS was named vice-president of the dub and BERT HENE­ERY, sccretarv. 
 Club of Indianapolis scholarship to Notre  the Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, 

Presented annually by the club, this award is open to all graduating seniors of the Marion County high schools. It is bosed on averages compiled in a written examination prepared by the College Entrance Examination Board, Princeton, N. J. The scholarship is made possible by the club's sponsorship of special trains to several Notre Dame footboU games each fall. 
Sitting in the picture are R. M. Schafer, father of the scholarship wiimer: John Schafer, the winnen and Mike Fox. Standing: Mike Layden, Pat Fisher and Nick Connor, club president. 
New jersey 
TOM HOGAN, '39, of Maplewood is the new president of the dub and RAY TROY, '34, of Upper Momdair is the new vice-president. CLARK REY­NOLDS was redected treasurer and BILL WALD­RON was reelected secretary. BILL SMALL, >40, of West Orange and H.ANK BORD.\, '40, of East Orange are the new directors, repladng PHIL HEINLE and DAN O'.NEILL. Oflicers of the New Jersey campus dub were guests at the election meeting. 
New York City 
FILANK LE..\HY, the premiere of the dub's new choral group under JOHN MAC CAULEY, '41, and fmt showing of the new campus film from the Uni­versity topped the dub's program for June 22 at the Hotd Shdion. CH.4RLIE QUINN was the chair­man of the meeting. 
REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH. C.S.C, president, at the May 11 meeting presented the dub's Man of the Year scroll to ED TIGHE. At the same meet­ing reports were made by the following chairmen of dub committees: JERRY BROWN, membership; JOHN BALFE, placement; BOB HAMILTON, Trust Fund; JOHN KAN.\LEY, Foundation; and JACK HOYT, dub directory. The dub directory, a comprehensive and attractive printed publication, appeared in the spring. 
Plans for the fall indude the dub trip to the Navy game in Baltimore, Oct. 29, a huge rally in the Biltmore Hotd on Nov. II, the m'ght before the North Carolina game. TIERNEY O'ROURKE and MARTIN CALLAGY are co-chairmen of the latter. 
Club members noted with spedal interest that Malcom Johnson of the "New York Sun," who talked at the dub's February meeting, won the 1948 Pulitzer Prize for distrngubhed local reporting. 
The dub mimeographed bulletin for June carried the following significant announcements regarding the formation of new dub conunittces: 
"ED BECKMAN, '16, has just completed an in­struction sheet for committee chairmen in which all constitutional requirements are outlined and several bints for the smooth operation of committees are given. A check sheet for large functions is also available. . . . New Publidty Committee chairman is JIM CAWLEY, '40, editor at Powell Magazines. Purpose of committee is to advise other committees on publidty and public relations by appointing one of their members to each committee. . . . 

Also getting under way is revised Reception Com­mittee under leadership of genial TIM TOOMEY, '30. Idea is to eliminate wall flowers at meetings and hdp meeting chairmen with details. . . . Also new is the Met Club Liaison Committee under RAY BUSHEY, '49, as chairman and assisted by DON BEGLEY, '49, recent Met Club prexy, and CASS VANCE, '38. They will develop relations with cam­ptrs dub. . . . 
"FRANK COXaANNON, '42, heads Future Quarters Committee. . . . GREG RICE, '39, is chairman of the '48 Auditing Committee. He also heads new Building Fund Committee. . . . HERB GIORGIO, '32, is chairman of the Current Events, ReUgious Activities and Wdfare Committee. Mem­bers should contact Herb when they hear of fellow members who are ill, in need, etc This latter function is new to the committee and is being de­vdoped at the suggestion of JOHN BALFE. . . . Plenty of help is needed to properly run these and other committees. . . . and everyone is invited to lend a hand. . . . Jtrst phone the dub secretary, AL PERRINE, '41." 
Ohio Valley 
MOST REV. JOHN KI.NG MUSSIO, bishop of Steubenville, and REV. VINCENT BRENNAN, of Pittsburgh, a director of the Alumni Assodation, spoke to the dub at its UXD observance in the Catholic Community Center, Steubenville, on April 
25. DR. RICHARD E. FLOOD, Wierton, « « in charge of arrangements, assisted by JOHN POLISKY and SYLVESTER DOUGHERTY, both of Steuben­villE. BILL YAEGER ot Wheeling is president of the club. 
Panama 
LEO KRZIZA writes that Mr. and Mn. Paul Duran and the club entertained the Notre Dame group of nav-al ROTC students when they visited Panama early in July while they were on their sum­mer cruise. Fifty students and REV. JOSEPH KE­HOE, C.S.C., from the University were guests in the home of Mr. and Mrs. Duran on July 5. Colored motion pictures were shown. 
Other guests at the party included Rev. George Bischofberger, S. J., regent, St. Louis University, REV. MARK McGRATH. C.S.C., recently ordained, Afr. and Afrs. LARRY ROMAGOSA, Mr. and Mrs. LEO J. KRZIZA and JOSEPH HARRINGTON. 
Pittsburgh 
As of July 1, our calendar shows the following: 
Monday, July 11. Golf Meeting and Dinner. But­ler Country Club. Committee for Arrangements: CARL LINK. E^f.METT GRIFFIN, VINCE BURKE and GENE COYNE. 
Thursday, Aug. 4. Picnic at North Park. Com­mittee for Arrangements: REGIS LAVELLE, NEIL G.ALONE, BILL McGOWAN, BOB HOGAN. 
A thousand-dollar activity is now in progress, witli the winner to be announced at the picnic. Com­mittee: ED McHUGH and JACK MONTEVERDE. 
Thursday luncheons continue to draw good crowds at the upstairs dining room of Dutch Henry's. This U a beautiful room, strictly pri^'ate, and air con­ditioned. A new Notre Dame banner has just been mounted. All members are urged to attend these luncheons. 
RUDY CRNKOVIC has kindly ofTered his sen-ices to the club for the placement of any ncH-s items concerning club members or events. Rudy Is with the INS in PitUburgh. 
S.AM WEST has also volunteered to expedite trans­portation of club members to club events In case they do not have facilities of their ow^n. In case you do not drive or own a car, and want to attend club functions at some distance from downtown Pittsburgh, see Sam West, Sargent Engineering Co. 
BOB FULTON. 

Pioneer Valley {Mass.) 
A group of the alumni in the vicinity of Spring­field, Holyoke and Northampton, Massachusetts, have organized a local alumm club to be known as the NOTRE DAME club of the PIONEER VALLEY. The organization was efifected on the recent Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. 
The officers are: president, HENRY M. PADDEN. *24, Holyoke; vice-presidents, ANGELO BERTELLI, '46, West Springfield. THOMAS F. DUNN, '36. Springfield; treasurer, ALL.AN F. BRIDE, '37, Springfieldj secretary-, WILLLAM A. HURLEY, '28. Springfield. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by a dinner at the Yankee Pedlar Inn, Holyoke. Arrange­ments for the affair were made by HENRY M. PADDEN. Those who enjoyed a very good evening were: ED O'NEILL, DAN O'CONNELL, NORB NEFFINGER, DON TEAHAN, CHARLES BEAU­LIEU, ANGELO BERTELLI, TOM DUNN, JIM REGAN, ART DEMERS, AL BRIDE, HUBERT CR/VNE, TOM ROGAN, R.\Y SNYDER, LOUIS SEFRANKI, and JOHN SULLIVAN. 
Plans were made for a meeting May 23 In the form of a steak roast at Dan O'Connell's home at Good Year Park. 
It is expected that some progress will be reported shortly on behalf of the Foundation drive. WILLIAM A. HURLEY. 
Rock River Valley {Illinois) 
PAUL FRY of DLxon was elected president when the club held its annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner In the K. of C. Club in Ducon on April 25. DOUG GRANT of Freeport was named, \ice-presl­
dent, JOHN CAHILL, Dixon, secretary, and RAY DECOURCEY, Rochelle, treasurer. Alumni and their wives from Dixon, Freeport, Rockford, Sterling, Rochelle and Amboy attended. 
JAMES GANNON, a graduate of DLxon High School, was named as the first recipient of the WILLARD JONES memorial scholarship at Notre Dame. 
Saginaw Valley {Mich.) 
The club had its summer outing nt Linwood Beach on June 12 with 22 members present. A ball game between the representatives of Saginaw and Bay City was the highlight of the day. Present Notre Dame students from the area were guests. 
On the club calendar for the year are a party on Nov. 5, the day of the Michigan State-Notre Dame football game; Universal N. D. Communion Sunday on Dec. 11; and Universal Notre Dame Night on April 17. blEcers arc: HERBERT R. SCHNETT­LER, president; JOHN C. ME.AGHER, wee-presi­
UniTetaal Notre Dome Night in Philadelphia. At the head table, leit to right, ore BL Rer. Msgr. Cletua I. Beniamin, Athletic Director Edward &auae, '34, JUumni Prendent Fronda Wallace, '23. BeT. lamea W. Gibbona and Houaing Expediter Tighe Wooda. '33. 
dent; CARL W. DOOZAN, secretary; and THEO­DORE W. MEAGHER. THOMAS VAN AARLE and JOSEPH D. GODDEYNE, directors. 
Schenectady 
New officers of the dub are GEORGE G. THOMPSON, '42, president; JOHN T. PETERS, 
•42, vice-president; EDWARD J. FITZGERALD, -'34, secretary and treasurer; and JOHN A. HOL­LAND, JR., '41, a member of the Board of Di­rectors. 
St. Joseph Valley {Ind.) 
ANTONE L. LAMBERT, a graduate of Riley High School, South Bend, and ROBERT D. MILL­ER, a graduate of John Adams High School, South Bend, were the 1949 winners of the scholarships to Notre Dame offered annually by the club. 
Begun in 1911, the club's scholarships program has now been enlarged to the point where Lambert a eligible to receive $2,(XX} over four years as a day student and Miller Is eligible to receive $880 over the same period. Funds for this enlarged program come from the Old Timers-Varsity football game which Is sponsored each spring by the club. 
J. FRANK MILES, is chairman of the club com­mittee which handles the details of the scholarship program. He Is assisted by PAUL M. BUTLER, WILLI.\if R. DOOLEY, JAMES R. MEEHAN, R. FLOYD SEARER and CHARLES A. SWEENEY. The judges who actually award the scholarships are: WILLIAM J. BRODERICK, Kemieth B. Eltiott, 
H. Paul Kelsay, JUDGE J. ELMER PEAK and Otto 
A. Pfaff. This year E. H. Worcester "sat in" for Mr. PfafF who was out of the city. 
Under the chairmanship of BEN SHERIDAN, head freshman football coach at Notre Dame, the club's annual golf party was conducted on June 28 at the Morris Park Country Club. South Bend. GoU from 10 a. m. on was followed at 7 p. in. by a SJl. 
O. dinner In the bulgii^ club dining room. MILD WOLF won top honors for the best dub-handling of the day In spite of an afternoon cloudburst; his score was 73. There were numerous other prizes, both fox golf and luck. REV. JOHN H. MURPHY, C.S.C.. vice-president, represented the Administration and talked brieBy. JAMES E. ARMSTRONG was M. C 
Under the direction of President &f£5SICK, the club has tentatively set up its program for a year ahead In keeping with the recommendations con­tained in the "Manual for Local Alumni Clubs." Leading off in the fall will be Friday night e%'ents preceding each of the home ffwtball games as fol­lows: Sept. 23, dance, Indiana Club (Indiana game); Oct. 14, smoker, Oliver Hotel (Tulanc game); Nov. 18, smoker, OUver Hotel (Iowa game); Nov. 26, smoker, Oliver Hotel (Southern California game). A television presentation for club members is beii^ considered for Saturday, Nov. 12, in connection with the North Carolina game In New York. 
The club's annual football banquet for the team and its coaches has been set for Dec. 12 in the Notre Dame Dining Hall. Later events will be: Rockne memorial Communion-breakfast ' at Notre Dame, April 2; UnI\-eTsal Notre Dame Night, April 17; the annual Old Timers-\'arsity football game sponsored by the club in May; and the annual golf party in June. 
At least one event will be added for the January­February-March period. 
Toledo 
The club participated in tbe dance on June 10 at the Toledo Yacht Club, sponsored by the TOIHID Oub of Notre Dame. FRANK MALONE, KARL SYRING and JACK MALONE handled dance resa^ vations for the almnni. 
A new club directory was first distributed at the club's UND Night observance and has since beea sent out to the members who couldn't male that April 25 event. 
The Notre Dcnne Alumnus 
Tri Cities 
A family picnic sponsored by the club W3s held on Saturday afternoon^ June 25, at Springbrook Country Club, DcWitt, la. Families brought their own food and refreshments were furnished by the dub. Swimming, golf, fishing, baseball, croquet and badminton—not to mention suings for diildrcn and their parents—were available. 
Twin Cities 
When FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH. president, was in St. Paul in June to give the Commencement address and receive an honorary degree at St. Thom­as College, he was the luncheon guest of the dub. He told the members about Notre Dame's new de­\xIopment and its plans for the future. 
Washington^ Z>. C 
With Admiral John Estis Wheldiel, head coach of the Washington Redskins, as chief speaker the dub met on May 31 in the Carlton Hotel. PAT GOR­MAN, new president, extended greetings and out­lined the dub program for the >-ear. 
The Great Books Seminar, under leadership of GERRY O'BRIEN', '46, «il! be one of the top proj­ects for the >-ear. Enrollment in the seminar is now-going on. 
LEO MULQUEEX was chairman of the annual club retreat conducted as usiml at Holy Cross Col­lege, with FATHER BERX.ARD RANSING, C.S.C.. superior of the college, as host. The dates were June 17, 18 and 19. 
GEORGE HAITHCOCK is editor of an attractive miracograDhed **Ncws Bulletin" (temporarv' name) now issued monthly by the club. 
Irene Dunne Receives Medal 
(Continued from Page 7) good women, of whom I am today their poor representative, and the motion picture industry, with its deep reverence for spiri­tual themes when given them to produce. I am only the channel by which the honors to both are conveyed. This Laetare Medal is indeed a great honor for it cannot be bought and it is lost in proportion as it is sought. But as women and the movies take their credit for this medal may I lay claim to my own great happiness. I pray God that being honored by the men of Notre Dame augurs well for that day when I shall have an eternal Laetare with the Woman Who is Notre Dame." 
During the ceremonies, with Rev. John 
H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president, as master of ceremonies. Miss Dunne was accorded the high praise of Most Rev. J. Francis A. Mc­Int)'re, archbishop of Los Angeles; Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, author, radio orator and professor of Philosophy at the Catholic University of America; Rev. John J. Cava­naugh, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame; Charles Brackett, president of the Motion Picture Academy of Arts and Sciences, and Ned Depinet, president of RKO Pictures, speaking for the movie industry. Five news­reels, many individual newspaper reporters and photographers and the wire services carried the proceedings to all parts of the country. 
Frank C. Walker, '09, New York City, recipient of the Laetare Medal a year ago, was present for the presentation honoring Miss Dunne this year. Music in the Drill Hall was provided by an orchestra directed by Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Depart­ment of Music. 
ANNUAL LUNCHEON 
NOTRE DAME LAW ASSOCIATION 
In Conjunction with the Proceedings of 
AMERICAN BAH ASSOCIATION 
Hotel Statler, St. Louis, Mo. 12:30 P.M. —Sept. 7, 1949 
RESERVATIONS: Robert J. Callahcm, Jr., 705 Chestnut St.—Suite 304, St. Louis 
Degrees Awarded 
(Continued from Page 14) 
annually by James E. Vaughan and Charles 
L. Vaughan, both alumni. 
The -Andrew F. Ker\'ick gold medal for drawing, founded by Prof. Francis W. Ker­\nck, head of the Department of Architec­ture, was received by Patrick Weisphal, of Norfolk, Nebr., for excellence in freehand drawing. Callix E. Miller, Jr., South Bend, was awarded the Nellie Wynn Kervick gold medal for achitecture, awarded to the third year student whose work in the first three years in courses in architecture has been of the highest merit. Weisphal also received the school medal of the American Institute of Architects and a copy of Henry Adam's "Mont-Saint-Michel-and-Chartres" for gen­eral excellence in architecture. 
Pi. copy of "Mont-Saint-Michel-and-Char­tres" went to Louis A. Scibelli, of Maiden, Mass., for second rank in excellence in the Department of Architecture. Robert Cashin, of Stevens Point, Wis., won the Gertrude 
S. SoUitt prize for architectural structure, for the best work submitted in a special problem in structure. The Ralph SoUitt prize for architecture, for the best design as a solution to a special problem in architec­ture, was presented to Thomas A. Barber, of Athens, Ala. 
Joseph A. Doyle, South Bend, was given the J. Sinnott Meyers burse, for excellence in editorial composition in journalism. The Hugh A. O'Donnell gold medal for journal­ism, established by the late Hugh A. O'Don­nell, '94, was presented to John C. Kreu­ger, of Oak Harbor, O., for the highest average in journalism. 

The F. A. Miller award for practical jour­nalism, founded by F. A. MiUer, president and editor of The South Bend Tribune, was presented to five students for outstanding work on the "Journalist," experimental newspaper in the Department of Journalism. Recipients of this award were Joseph Scheid­ler, of Hartford City, Ind.; Harry Monahan, of San Diego, Calif.; Raymond Fitzgerald, of Westfield, Mass.; Lawrence Flaherty, of Maumee, O., and John McGoldrick, of For­est HiUs, N. Y. 
Francis J. Rudden, of New York City, was the recipient of the Donoghue prize for essay on labor relations, established by Lieut. 
Bernard J. Donoghue, USNR, of the class of 1931, for the best essay submitted on labor relations. The Donoghue prize for essay on labor problems, established by Lieut. Don­oghue for the best essay submitted on labor problems, was won by Richard F. Rybar, of Pittsburgh, Pa. 
The Hamilton award, for the graduate of the CoUege of Commerce who has achieved the highest scholastic average for the four-year course, was awarded to James T. Car­ey, of LouisvUle, Ky. Albert L. AUgaier, of New Albany, Ind., was the recipient of the Hamilton medal, for the graduate of the CoUege of Commerce who has made the most improvement in public speaking during his four years. Both awards were founded by Louis H. Hamilton, president of the Du-more company of Racine, Wis., and his sons, Robert and James, both alumni. 
Louis J. Bums, of Washington, D. C, re­ceived the Byron V. Kaneley prize, estab­lished by Byron Kaneley, of Chicago, for the senior monogram athelete exemplary as a student and as a leader of men. The Jacques medal for fine art, founded in memory of the late EmU Jacques, former head of the Departmbent of Fine Arts, was given to Charles F. O'Brien, of Pittsburgh, for sub­mitting the best thesis for graduation in the Department of Fine Arts. 
Four military awards were presented to members of the naval and air ROTC units. The navigation award, presented by the navy department to the student in the naval ROTC corps attaining the highest average in navigation subjects, was awarded to AUan 
S. Miller, of Decatur, lU. Andrew J. Walsh, of Bronx, N. Y., won the sUver Chicago Tnbune award for military merit, for at­tainment of highest averages in military sub­jects in the naval ROTC corps. 
Herman H. Hamilton, Jr., of Montgom­ery, Ala., won the navy American Legion auxiUary award presented to the midship­man in the naval ROTC corps adjudged to have demonstrated the best leadership dunng the year. The army ROTC Ameri­can Legion auxiliary award, presented to the most outstanding student in the first year basic course of the air ROTC unit went to Robert J. Lally, of Cleveland Heights, O. 
New Monogram Officers 

Raymond L. Roy, '42, of South Bend, former track star, was elected president of the National Monogram Club at its annual meeting held on June 12 in conjunction with the Alumni Reunion. 
Roy, a Chicago native, succeeds Fred MiUer, '29, MUwaukee, captain of the 1928 footbaU team. 
Other officers elected were: Nicholas P. Lulats, '34, HoUywood, Calif., vice-presi­dent, and Richard J. Nolan, '49, South Bend, secretary-treasurer. George M. Ire­land, '36, Aurora, III., and J. Patrick Can­ny, '28, Cleveland, were elected to the board of directors for one year, and the Rev. Michael L. Moriarity, '10, Cleveland, was named club chaplain. 
m e cilumnt 
Engagements 
Miss Jacqueline Marie Doyle and JAMES F. BARK, JR., '48. 
Miss Marie Burke and THOMAS E. BENEDICT, '49. 
Miss Marguerite Anne Golden and JAMES J. BYRNE, '49. 
Miss Patricia Ruth Eckerle and JAMES T. CAREY, '49. 
Miss Carol Jean Eschner and JAMES I. COR­CORAN, '48. 
Miss Ruth Drinkall and JAMES R. COSTELLO, '49. 
Miss ifary Patricia Dugan and JOHN J. DUN­LEA VY, '47. 
Miss Paz Martinez de AK-a and THOMAS G. FRY, JR., '48. 
Miss Joanne Moeller and EUGENE J. GILES, '48. 

Miss Joan Rcitcr and EDWARD S. KAVA­NAUGH, '38. 
Miss Patricia Ann D«7er and JOSEPH V. LONG, JR., ex-45. 
Miss Marilyn Healy and AUSTIN A. McNICH-OLS, JR., '49, son of Austin A. McNichoIs, e.x-21. 
Miss Ruth Finke and ROBERT F. R.ANEY, '48. 

Miss Angcline Vila and WILLIAM H. SPLAINE, ex-47. 
Miss Margaret Catherine Cooke and EDWARD L. TWOHEY, '49. 
Miss Aileen Hvncs and VICTOR L. ZIM.MER­MAN, JR., '28. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth Terry, sister of Charles P., '38, Richard M., e3t-46. Dr. Robert T., ex-47, sister-in-law of William R. Doolcy, '26, and CHARLES 
G. BADER, cx-51, son of Clarence W. Bader, '19. 
Marriages 
Miss Leota Thielke and GENE AASEN, '47, South Bend, June 4. 
Miss Betty Ruth Frjinire and JOHN M. BAN­NON, JR., e.\-52, son of John M. Bannon, '12, Dallas, Texas, June U. 
Miss Mary Sheldon and RICHARD O. BURNS, JR., '48, Winnetka, III., June 16. 
Miss Mary Hall and JOSEPH A. C\LL.-\H.'\N, '38, Notre Dame, April 17. 
Miss Florence Mickley and EDWARD P. CAP­ARO, '47, son of Dr. J. A. Caparo, '08, professor emeritus, Notre Dame, June U. 
Miss Jane Eagen Daley and JOHN THOMAS CLARK, '48, River Forest, III., Feb. 12. 
Miss Merrill Holmes and VICTOR F. CORCOR­AN, '42, Rochester, N. Y., recently. 
Miss Elizabeth June Molinari and JOHN C. COW­LEY, '48, San Mateo, Calif., April 23. 
Miss Barbara Ann Kellogg and EUGENE C. CURTSINGER, JR., '48, South Bend, July 9. 
Miss Clairose Carroll and MICHAEL J. CUTT, JR., '47, San Gabriel Mission, Calif., April 30. 
Miss Frances Agnes Brennan and JAMES A. DEVLIN, ex-28, Columbus, O., June 15. 
Miss Cynthia Eusterman and OWEN W. DOYLE, '45, Rochester, Minn., June 25. 
Miss Rebecca Jane Bowman and EDWARD V. O. DRINKARD, '44, Notre Dame, June II. 
Miss Rosemary Hepting and WILLIAM J. DUG­GAN, '49, Notre Dame, June 18. 
Miss Margaret Ruth Hanley and EDWARD LOWE EAGAN, '47, Helena, Mont., July 9. 
Miss Mary Louise Afeunier and RUSSELL J. FARRELL, '48, Kansas City, Mo., April 23. 
Miss Roma Ardcll Kaincr and WILLIAM FISCH­ER, '49, Glcnview, III., June 2. 
Miss Ruth Mary Brunncr and JOHN T. FLOR­ENCE, ex-48, Cleveland, O., May 7. 
Miss Mary Ann Shilts. daughter of Prof. Walter 
L. Shilts, '22, and THO^L\S J. GETZINGER, '53, South Bend, June 4. 
Miss Jane McFall and EDWARD J. GOLIGHT­LY, '48, Nappanee, Ind., June 18. 
Miss Louise H. Hcnning and FRANK H. GROVES, '48, Goshen, Ind., -May 7. 
Miss Doris DeWyze and URB.^N A. HINDERS, '48, South Bend, May 30. 
Miss El'-ror F.lirah-th P.-cze and ERNEST A. HOUGHTON, JR., '52, Notre Dame, June 11. 
Miss Patricia M. Mason and RALPH J. KENNEY, '48, Chicago, May 14. 
Miss Catherine Althea Link and J. PAUL LI.MONT, '47, Notre Dame, June 18. 
Miss Joan Crowe and JOHN J. McSHANE, '48, son of John J. McShane, '15, South Bend, June II. 
Miss Therese Marie Reiter and GEORGE P. MICHAELY, JR., '48, South Bend, June 18. 
Miss Alice Mary Michalowski, and EDW.\RD T. MIESZKOWSKI, '46, Chicago, May 30. 
Miss Theresa A. PIrchio, daughter of the late Prof. Pasqualc M. Pirchio, '25, and CALLDC E. MILLER, JR., '49, son of Callix E. Miller, '21, South Bend, June 25. 
Miss Vera Gustafson and JOHN E. MONAHAN, '39, Minneapolis, May 29. 
Miss Donna Jean Willmcng and JAMES F. MOR­TEI.L, '49, Watenlict, Mich., April 30. 
Miss Patrida A. Emerick and THOMAS J. NEFF, '49, South Bend, June 18. 
Miss Kay Dwyer and EDWARD H. NOONAN, '47, Utica, N. Y., April 23. 
Miss Elizabeth Jean Ruffner and EUGENE J. O'NEIL, III, '49, South Bend, June 6. 
Miss Eleanor Margaret Couzens and EDWARD C. RONEY, JR., '43, Detroit, June 23. 
Miss Theresa Marie Singler and LAWRENCE J. ROUGEUX, '48, South Bend, June 18. 
Miss Anna Marie Shurig and JOHN T. RUM­BACH, ex-45, Jasper, Ind., June 25. 
Miss Eldora Ann Liddy and EMIL SITKO, '50, Fort Wayne, Ind., June IS. 
Miss Colette CJeary and FIUNK E. SULLIVAN, '49, South Bend, June 11. 
Miss Flora Alice Emerson and WILLIAM A. TER­HEYDEN, JR., '42, Milford, Conn., June 25. 
Miss Beverly Jean Harden and JACK L. TITUS, '48, South Bend, June 18. 
Miss Randy Jewkes and FRANK J. TRIPUCKA, '49, South Bend, June 4. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth Strasser and JOHN J. WIN­BERRY, '23, Brooklyn, N. Y., recendy. 
Miss Mardell Hilbert and JOHN J. WITOUS, '48, South Bend, June 18. 
Miss Helen Claire Draeb and FRANCIS P. \VYRENS, '46, Richardton, North Dak., June JO. 
Born fo 
Mr. and Mn. LAWRENCE J. AUBREY, '42, a daughter, Adele Marie, March 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL P. BARLOW, '48, a son, Christopher Michael, May 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT J. BEAUDINE, '40, a son, Thomas Michael, May 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILMER A. BERNDT, '49. a daughter, June 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. BRENNAN, '41, a son, April 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. DAHILL, '37, a son, Edward Francis, May 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. VICTOR A. DeSIMON, '46, a daughter, Laura Jean, June 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS E. DIXON, ex-41, a daughter, Mary Agnes, May 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. DOWD, '41, a son, Robert Emmett, Jr., De c 14, 1948. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH J. DUES, ex-48, a son, Thomas Lee, April 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. EARL R. ENGLERT, '44, a daughter, Mary Jane, June 21. . . 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES A. FINNERAN, JR., '44, a flaughter. Sheila Marie, June 19. 
Dr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. GLASER, '42, a son, Eric Vaughn, May 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS F. GOLDEN, '31, a son. May 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN L. HARRIGAN, JR., '43, a son, James Michael, May 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. DONALD F. HICKEY, '38. a son, June 21. 
Mr. and Mis. JOHN P. HICKEY. '44, a daughter. May 5. 
Mr. and Mis. THOMAS E. HUTCHINSON, '38, a son, Timothy, recendy. 
Mr. and Mrs. DONALD JUN, ex-48. a daughter. June 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS J. KELLY. '45. a son, Kevin Francis, April 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL D. LAMMERS, '49, a son, David Paul, July 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. ERNEST F. LaVIGNE. JR.. '39, a son. Ernest Francis. III. Aug. 1. 1948. 
Mr. and Mrs. VINCENT A. McNALLY. '27. a son. June 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM B. MADDEN. '42, a son. Thomas Randall. May 22. 
Mr. and Mis. JOHN R. MALONE. '42. a daugh­ter. Mary Aim. June 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE R. &IEEKER, '40, a son, Richard Kevin, June 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH W. RATIGAN, '36, a daughter, Maureen, March 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE H. ROHRS, '33, a son, Christopher, May 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. UGO D. ROSSI. '42. a daughter, Kathryn Marie. May 19. 
Mr. and Mis. CHESTER P. SADOWSKI, '39. a daughter. Margaret Mary, May 5. 
Mr. and Mis. JOHN J. SCHOUTEN, '48, a son, John Martin, Nov. 26, 1948. 
Mr. and Mrs. J.4MES J. SIDDALL. '36, a son. May 3. 
Mr. and Mn. CYRIL C. THEISE.V, '32, a daugh­ter, Ellen Elizabeth, May 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. RICH.'UID D. VAN PARIS, '4S, a -son, &lay 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES A. V.ARGA, '40, a son, ifay 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES A. WEBB, '48, a daughter, "Pamela, April 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. RICH.\RD D. WILLEMIN, '42, a :£on. May 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. H.^ROLD F. X.WIER, '48, a slaughter. May 31. 
Deafhs 

REV. MICHAEL OSWALD, C.S.C., '98, pro­
fessor of Latin and Greek at Noire Dame from 1902 
-until 1923, died in the Community Infirmary on the 
-campus on June 5 following a long illness. He "\vas 
73 years old. 

Father Osv*-ald was born in FcUerich-hy-Tricr, 
•Germany, July 15, 1875, and entered the Congrega­lion of Holy Cross in 1895. Ordained to the pricsi­iood in 1901 he received his Ph. D, from Catholic University, Washington, D. C. in 1902. After his years of teaching at Notre Dame he was pastor of 
St. Mar>''5 Church, South Bend, until his retirement in 1938. 
Among Father Osw-ald's sur\-ivors are a brother, Hcv. Matthias J. Osw-ald, C.S.C., '01, at Notre IDame, and a sister, Mrs. .^nna W^ender, in Germany. 
REV. WALTER C. M.AKLEY, a student at Notre "Dame in the early part of the ccniur^-, died on "May 15 in Bellefontaine, O., where he bad been pastor of St. Patrick's parish since 1933. Earlier, iie held pastorates in Fl>-nwood and Tipp Cit>-, both in Ohio. Father Makley is survived by two sisters. 
R.ALPH HAVILAXD, *15. secretary of the Notre "Dame Club of Northern California, was killed on Afay 28 in an automobile crash near Emporia, Kans. "He is survived by his wife. 
CHARLES PETER "PETE" MOTTZ, '16, died in Omaha, Nebr., on May 13 following a heart :attack. He is survived by his wife, by his daughter, Mrs. Mary Ann Kozumplik, wife of Notre Dame's 
•assistant librarian, William Kozumplik, and by three rsisters and three brothers. 
Mr. Ifottz served in France in World War I. Later "he was employed by the State Highway Department In Missouri, by the U- S. Engineers and by the "National Park Service. He was buried in Wellsvillc, ^lo., where he had been born 56 years before. 
DR. THOMAS R. KENNEDY, '17, ph>-sician and 
•surgeon
 in St. Louis, died on May 23 in the Mayo 

•Clinic,
 Rochester, Minn., after an tUncss of live weeks. Suniving him are his wife, a son and five 

•daughters,
 two brothers, (Paul J. Kennedy, '24, Templeton, Ind., and Dr. Francis L. Kennedy, '25, St. Louis) and two sisters, as well as eight grand­children. 


A graduate of the St. Louis University School of Medicine, Dr. Kennedy was a member of the staff of St. John's Hospital. St. Louis. He was buried on May 27 after funeral serxices in Christ the King Church, Univcisity City, Mo-
WILLIAM J. McGRATH, '20, Chicago, died .suddenly on April 27 follouing a heart attack. He Ts 5urvi\*ed by his wife, a son, a daughter and a 
•sister.
 Mr. McGrath was employed in the Assessor's 

•Office
 of Cook County, (Chicago,) HI, 



OSCAR A, KLEIN, Cleveland, a student at Notre Dame in the early 1920's, died on May 10 from a "heart ailment. He is survived by his wife, a daughter, a son, two brothers and two sisters. 
Bom in Rochester, N. Y., Mr. Klein settled in Cleveland after attending Notre Dame and began there an insurance bunness which bore his name. He was one of the founders of the Blue Baby Heart Society and was active in American Legion afiiairs. 
Brief information recently received in the Alumni Office told of the death on -March 18, 1948, of ELMO JACOB EHINGER, '24, in Houston, Texas. He was on the purchasing department staff of the Shell Oil Co. 
STANLEY J. CZAP.^LSKI, *32, Chicago, died on 
Jan. 24 after a brief illness. Word of his death 
reached the Alumni Office late in June. 

Owner of a drug store in Chicago, Mr. CTapalAJ 
was active in civic affairs and in the Knights of 
Columbus and took a particular interest in bowling. 
A daughter, aged nine, and his mother are his only 
immediate survivors. 

JOHN T. McCUTCHEON, naUonally known cartoonist who died on June 9, received an honorary LL.D., from Notre Dame in 1931. 
HAROLD R. DELANEY, '18, Dallas, Texas, is dead. Word of his death came to the Alumni Office as this issue of the ALUMNUS was being prepared. Further details will appear in the next issue. 
JOHN N. BOMMERSBACH, Decatur, III., a 
student at Notre Dame in the late 1890's, died in 
Indianapolis on 
Graduated from the Illinois College of Pharmacy, 
Mr. Bommersbach worked as a pharmacist for a 
short while before entering the floral business with 
his father and brother. About 25 years ago the 
Bommersbach greenhouses in Decatur were sold and 
from that time until last November John Bommecs­
bach continued with flowers as a hobby. He won 
prizes at flower shou-s throughout the United States 
and was known especially for developing new strains 
of iris and gladioli. 
Mr. Bommersbach's only immediate survivor is his sister in Decatur. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to WILLIAM K. B.AYER, JR., '36, on the death of bis daughter; to REV. CHARLES R. CALLAHAN. C.S.C., '37, on the death of his mother; to HARRY 
G. FLANAGAN. JR., '42, on the death of his mother; to REV. FRED M. GASSENSMTTH, C.S.C., '17, on the death of his mother; to REV. FR.-VNCIS X- LUZN^, C.S.C., '14. on the death of his sister; to FR.\NCIS R. McGINTY, '47, on the death of his father; to HENRY G. McKEE, '34. on the death of his father; to BROTHER M.ARTIN JOHN. C.F.X., '31, on the death of his mother; to FRANCIS M. MESSICK, '30, on the death of his infant daughter; to PHILIP A. O'CONNOR, *28, on the death of his mother; to CLEMENT F. POWERS, '34, on the death of his mother; to MAU­RICE J. REG.\N. '31, on the death of his father; to WILLIAM L. STRUCK, '26, on the death of his father; to JOHN P. SULLIVAN, '24, on the death of his father. 
Personals 
Before 1900 
The golden anniversary reunion of the class oC 1899 drew two men to the campus on June 10, U and 12 to join, with the two members of the Com­munity who are their classmates. REV. THOMAS 
A. STEINER, CS.C , the provincial, and REV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, CS.C , chaplain at St. Mary*s College, welcomed LOUIS B. BEARDS­LEE of Chicago and MAURICE A. NEVILLE of Lafa^Ttte. Ind. 
Members of the class were special guests at the dinner held in the Notre Dame Dining Hall on Friday evening, June 10. And they were again special guests at the bead table at the Alumni Banquet on Saturday evening. The special song sung for the class at the banquet was "After the Ball Is Over", a number popular at the turn of the century and for years afterward. 
Father Steiner v%TOte to all living members of the class, inviting them to return for the reunion. Most who cUd not return sent regrets. Among them were WILLIAM A. A. WALSH, attorney in Yonkers, 
N. Y.; MICHAEL J. McCORMACK, of Memphis, who was pre\*ented by illness from making the trip; and O. W. CREPEAU, Columbus, O. 
Father Steiner's invitation brought the unhappy word from Rock Island, lU., that JAMES F. MUR­PHY. '99. had died on Sept. 12. 1948. His death was noted in the May-June ALUHN'US. 
1899—Reunion registrants: Very Rev. Thomas 
A. Steiner, CS.C, Rev. M. A. Schumacher, CS.C, 
L. B. Beardslce. M. A. Neville. 
ReunioQ registrants from years between 1900 and 1909 included: W. G- Ferstel, '00; G. A. Farabaugb, '04; H. G. Hogan, '04; B. V. Kanaley, '04; W. D. Jamieson, '05; D. J. O'Connor, '05, and Rev. W. 
H. Molony, CS.C, '07. 
1910 
BILL SCHMFTT of Portland, Ore., is one of seven comprising the building committee formed for the raising of funds for the erection of a new engi­neering building on the University of Portland cam­pus. Portland U.. is of course, the CS. C institution in the Northwest. 
1910—Reuniott jegistrants: Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 
C. A. Sorg. 

A section of the head table at the Alumni Banquet thows, from the left. Alumni IMrector Edward 3eckman, '16, Athletic Director Edward Xrouse, '34. Maurice A. Neville oi the golden anniYcrsary clou of 1899. BYxen V. Kanaler, "Oi, Ht HOT. Migr. Maurice F. Griffin, '04. and Her, Thomas A. Steiner. CS. C provincioL also a member ol the doss of '99. 
1911 
Fred L. Steers, 105 S. LaSalle St. Chicago 3, 111. 

Col. R. OTTO PROBST, South Bend, has an­nounced the formation of the first general staff of the new 2,007th logistical training division, which he commands. 
The Thomas More Association, formerly The Tho­mas More Library and Book Shop owned by JOHN 
C. TULLY, celehratsd its tenth anniversary May 14 to May 21 with the opening of its new quarters at 210 W. Madison St., Chicago, 6. A series of lectures by outstanding Catholic authors and an exhibit of Catholic art was part of the program. 
1911—Reunion rtgislrants: E. L. Figel, J. Lawton. 
1912—Reunion regijlranl: M. C. McGrath. 
1913 
Paul R. Byrne, University Library, Notre Dame, Ind. 

DOM DANIEL KIRK, of the class of '45, son of HARRY J. KIRK, was ordained to the priesthood June 7, at the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception, Washington, D. C. He celebrated his first Mass June 12 at St. Anthony's Church in Wash­ington, D. C. 
1913—Reunion reststranl: J. W. O'Hara. 
1914 
Ira W. Hurley 
231 S. LaSallc St., Chicago, lU. 

IRA HURLEY, class secretary, and WALTER CLEMENTS, the local reunion chairman, combined forces to provide a weekend of joy for the members of the class who returned on June 10, H and 12 for the 30th reunion. Some of the class arrived Thursday; most of the other rcunioncrs registered on Friday in time for the first official gathering of the *14 dan, at dinner in the upstairs dining room of the Uni\-ersity Dining Hall on Friday evening. REV. THOMAS A. STEIXER, CS-C , provincial, and REV. AUTTHEW SCHUMACHER, C.S.C., chaplain at St. Mary's College, both of whom arc members of the golden ani\-ersar>- class of 1899, were special guests at the dinner, as was FRANCIS WALLACE, president of the .\lumni Assodau'on. 
Walsh Hall was '14 headquarters for the weekend, and, in case you wondered, informafity reigned there all the day and well past the curfew hour. The class gathered again at the Alumni Banquet on Saturday evening and did a heroic job of giving out with "When You Wore a Tulip" when it was called upon to contribute to the evening's entertain­ment. In addition, TOM CURRY sang a solo-
FATHER MATTHEW WALSH, C.S.C., former president of the Uni\'ersity, renewed friendships with members of the dass over the weekend and told, as only Father Walsh can tell them, the stones of the older Notre Dame and of World War I, in which he served as an Army chaplain. 
The Michigan chapter of the Professional Football Writers association recently sponsored a gcod luck party in honor of GUS DORAIS, Wabash, Ind., automobile dealer. Later, Gus addressed the Holy Name Society members of St. Bernard's Church in Wabach at its Communion breakfast. 
The foUowtng from '14 registered somewhere on the campus over the weekend: 
J. F- Carroll, W. L. Clements, T. B- Curry, W. 
P. Downing, L. F. Durrell, F. W. Gushurst, S. T. Flanagan. F. M. Hogan, I. W. Hurley, E. A. Kane, 
R. T. Miller, R. S. O'Neill, C. L. Vaughan and 
L. S. Zgodzinski. 
1915—Reunion rceistrant: J. J. McShane. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
George N. Shuater 

GEORGE N . SHUSTER, '15, president of Hunter College, New York City, gave this year's Commencement address at St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, on June 4. 
Known internationally as an educator, writer and speaker, Dr. Shuster was chair­man of the National Committee on Segre­gation in the Nation's Capital which ior two years studied racial segregation in Washing­ton, D. C. The committee's 91-page report, released on Dec. 10, 1948, pointed to the "dominant real estate, commercial and fi­nancial interests" as "planning the segrega­tion of Negroes in housing, jobs, theatres, restaurants, parks and playgrounds" in Washington. 
Dr. Shuster was also a member of the University of Chicago's Commission on the Freedom of the Press, serving from 1944 on, and has served both the State Department and the War Department in numerous in­vestigative and advisory capacities, especially in relation to Germany. He was a delegate to the UNESCO Conference in Paris in 1946. 
The author of many books, ranging from 
The Catholic Spirit in Modern English Lit­erature, published while he was a professor and head of the English Department at Notre Dame in 1922, to The English Ode from Milton to Keats, published in 1940, and Religion and Education, published in 1945, Dr. Shuster has been the co-author of many other volumes and the translator of still others. With his wife, Doris Cun­ningham Shuster, a St. Mary's graduate in 1922, and their son, he resides in Stamford, Conn. 
1916 
Grover F. Miller 612 Wisconsin Ave., Racine, Wis. 

LOUIS P. "PAT" HARL'S address is 92 Avenue Marigny- Fontenay-Sous-Bois, Paris-Seine^ Fiance. ED BECKM.AN gave tlie Alumni Office this M-elcome information when he ^vas out for the Alumni Board meeting in June. Ed has announced his affiliation with Gresboff Advertising Agency, Inc. 406 E. 149th St., New York, 55. 
TIM GALVIN recently resigned as deputy supreme knight of the Knights of Cotumhus. 
1916—ReunioM registrant: £ . J. Beckman. 
1918 

John A. Lemmer, 901 tiake Shore Dr., Escanaba, Mich. 
- Two Notre Dame men received honoiary degrees from Michigan State Normal College, at Ypsilanti, Mich., at the Centeimial Commencement held on June 11. They are HARRY F. KELLY, '17, and JOHN A. LEMMER, '18. 
Harry, former governor of Michigan, and past president of the Alumni Association, received the degree of Doctor of Laws, and John received the degree of Master of Education (both honorary). 
Harry is now a member of the law firm of Kelly, Kelly and Kelly at Detroit. John is tlie superinten­dent of schools at Escanaba, Mich., and is well­kiwwn in Michigan for the special programs in his educatioiial system, especially for the "special rooms" for hancUcapped children and for those needing special educational attention and medical treatment. The curricula are considered as models and highly recognized in etfucational circles. 
1918—RcMion retistrami: J. T. Riley. 
1919 
Clarence W. Bader, 
921 Broadway, Gary, Ind. 

From CHICK BADER: 
Your dilatory secretary, as usual, was unable, be­cause of his young daughter's graduation, to get to the reunion on Friday but did arrive early Saturday morning to find the expected impeachment pro­ceedings in progress, as per classmate COSTELLO. but was disappointed to find that the only ones pres­ent vrere PAUL FENLON, CHET GRANT, BOB HUBER, and TED RADEMAKER. We missed such old timers as GEORGE HALLER, A. B. LOCK­ARD and others, but I believe that the old wheel­chair gang, although few in number, made up for the slack by a tot of enthusiasm. 
We enjoyed VTry much the retmion Iianquet Sat­urday night, and we are very sorry that all the members of our class did not get to bear the ad­dress by Father ROBERT SWEENEY, C.S.C., which was straight to the shoulder and direct to the point, and I believe that the Alumni Office could do well by sending you all a copy of this talk to let you know really what is transpiring back at the Uni­versity. 
We hope tliat the 35th may bring some of you fellows back and I am sure, if you do get there you are going to need the wheelchairs tiiat I spoke about in my letter inviting you all to the 30th. 
REV. PHILIP V. BEAGHAN, C.S.C., pastor of St. Joseph's Church in South Bend, celebrated liis silver jubilee, June 26, with a solemn high Mass. The combined societies of the parish honored Father Beaghan with a reception at 7 p.m. Other priests who this year are celebrating their silver jubilees are: REV. FRANCIS T. BUTLER, C. S. C , RT. REV. MSGR. WILLIAM J. DOHENY, C.S.C.; REV. DONALD MacGREGOR, C.S.C.: REV. JAMES H. McDONALD, C.S.C.; REV. RAYMOND 
W. MURRAY, C.S.C.; and REV. FRANCIS S. WYSS, CS.C. 
1920 
Leo B. Ward, 458 Spring St, 
Los Angdes 3> Calif. 

From LEO WARD: "NOTES TO YOU": Pint and foremast is the five-year reunion. IS50 will be the thirtieth year since our class graduated. Next year's reunion will be on June 9, 10 and U—the first 'weekend after the dose of schoc^» following the pUn established this year. I was on the campus for the reunion this June-Things ha\-e changed. The Law Association served cocktaib in the Law Building before the Alumm 
Thomas B. Curry, '14, and his wife receive the blessing of their two sons. Father James A., left, and Father Frederic F., ioUowing their ordination on May 26 in St. Joseph's Cathedral, Hartiord, Conn. Sister Mory Angela. CS.C, oi St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, aunt o{ the two young priests, stands back oi Mr. Curry. 
Banquet. Residence halls were, as usual, made a\'ail­able to returning alumni, but each ball had a beer bar. Anniversary classes had parties in South Bend. A golf tournament \*-as had, with beer bars at evcr>* fourth hole, or so it seemed, so that no one had to go far for a libation. Everything was organized except the lying competition. How the stories have grown! I am sure if next year they organize lying teams, the Class of 1920 will take first prize. The stories, with the >-ears and recounting, supplemented by romance and imagination, have now become clas­sic. Start now to plan to return next June for our thirtieth reunion. 
The Secretary needs help, so help the Secretary! Paraphrasing ARCH WARD'S plaintive idea in his ''Chicago Tribune" column, "Please send in news, regardless of how trivial or unimportant, regarding any classmate, and talk up the thirtieth reunion." 
JOBS—PLACEMENT—POSITIONS: The requests for jobs arc increasing to the point where it has become serious. If you have any knowledge of any job or position, communicate Mth your local club secretary or class officer. The needs of the alumni and former students are such that the University has established the office of Director of Vocational Counseling. The Board of Directors of the Alumni Association has made the matter of "job placement" one of its major endeavors. Please co-operate and help find jobs. 
ENDO\yMENT—FOUND.\TION: If you have not sent in your annual contribution, please do so. You understand, of course, that the theorj' of the annual coittribution is that, where we cannot afford to make a substantial donation, we can make an annual payment which would approximate the in­terest on the donation which we would like to make. In that way you retain your capital and the school obtains the benefit of the income on what would be, if a donation was made, a substantial endowment. 
While on the campus for the meeting of the directors of the Alumni Association, Foundation chairmen, and directors of the Law Assodation, 1 met a few of our dass and, in addition, got re­ports on a considerahle number. 
On the campus was WALTER "HICK" SWEEN­EY, the two.railer. I never knew his name was Waiter till I saw his identificauon badge. JERRY HOAR was also there, and Judge JOE SANFORD of Corby Hall fame, from all appearances enjoying every minute of it. ED MEEHAN attached hiinself to his matriculating class of 1919. However the "Dome" shou-s that he graduated in 1920. 
Reports from Port Huron state that CLIFF O'SULLIVAN is the leading attt^Dcy in that part of Alidiigan and is extremely busy and most highly respected. PAUL CONAGHAN is practicing law in Chicago. TOM BEACOM, on the Board of Lay Trtistees, is still in the banking business in Chicago. An elegant new administration building was dedi­cated at the South Bend Airport o^vr the Reunion weekend. And VINCE FAGAN, as one of the archi­tects for it, was much in the limelight. So was AL McGANN who, as chairman of the County Board of Aviation Commissioners, was the top figure in getting the builfling built. 
SHERWOOD DIXON is now the lieutenant gov­ernor of the Sute of Illinois and JOSEPH P. O'HARA was re-elected as congressman from Glen­coe, Minn., and is caring for our worries and in­creasing our taxes in Washington. DICK SWIFT, busy practicing law in Da\-enport, la., sent word by BOB PHALEN that he hoped to be at the re­union and would be sure to make it next year. 
From South Bend we learn that MIKE DORAN is busy practi<3i% law. FRANK "LITTLE WILLIE" COUGHUN is in the Attorney General's office in Indianapolis. GROVER MALONE is still li\nng in South Bend, as is FRANK "HUNGRY" MILES. BILL, SHERRY, of the Alumni Board, reports that PAUL LOOSEN is sdll in the banking business in Okarche. HARRY NESTER is practidng law in Columbus, O. His son, I am told, recently gradu­ated from Notre Dame. WALTER O'KEEFE, who is broadcasting the "Take It Or Leave It" show from California, reports that recently he was on television from New York. It keeps him busy travel­ing back and-forth. 
I had a letter from JOHN BALFE. He is still busy with his insurance business in New York. JIM "RED" RYAN has been spending considerable time in California. It seems Jim is interested in some mines. SLIP MADIGAN is stilt counsellor for the owners of the Los Angeles Dons in the AU-.America Football League and is periodically in Los Angeles counselling %vith JIM PHELAN, VINCE McNALLY and the owners of the Dons. He tells me that he and BODIE ANDREWS are in the lumber business in the Northwest. They are also in the contracting business around the Bay area, no competition, how­ever, to big TIM MOYNIHAN of Notre Dame football fame, who is contracting in Orange, Calif., since his retirement as a major in the U. S. Ma­rine Corps, where he distinguished himself during the war. 
GENE KENNEDY reports that DEAN McC.\R­THY was in Los Angeles. I did not hav-e an opoor­tunity to talk with him. GERALD "KID" ASHE was on the Coast for a number of months, auditing some railroad accounts to see that his emnlovers got their proper allowance. FRED STEERS, '11,' was in 

The dinner arranged by 1914 for Fddar araiiiB,. Jna. 10. brought together OIM repre­sentatiTes oi the reunion classes oi earUer reonk Uit to right ore WiUian "Poynt" Down­ing, -14. Her. Matthew Schumacher. CS.C -99. Uuis B. BMrddee. '99. Bt Ber. Mur. Maurice F. Griifin, '04. and Byron V. Konoley. '04. 
Los Angeles for the A.A.U. meet. He is practicing law in Chicago and is also on the Olympic Commit­tee. ED MEEHAN, of the "South Bend Tribune," and BERNIE VOLL together with JIM MARTIN attended the meeting of the steel manufacturers on the Coast and spent several da>-s in Los Angeles. ED McMAHON recently visited his son in South Bend. The son had been attending Notre Dame, but, due to the pressure and responsibility of mar­riage, has since returned to Denver. 
BILL FOX, the erudite sports editor from India­napolis, traveled ^vith the team and was here in California for the USC game. Bill has cihanged very little except for his greying hair. GENE KENNEDY, who recently married, is expecting to send his ne­phew, the son of CHARLIE KENNEDY, to Notre Dame next )*ear. 
Of the several members of our class who were ordained, I heard from the Right Rev. THOMAS TOBIN, chancellor of the Archdiocese of Portland, thanking us for the mention of his recent studies in Rome and his efforts in behalf of the fatherless children in Italy. As is generally known, Father JIM CONNERTON, C.S.C., is president of King's CoDege, Wilkcs-Barre. From the literature received periodically, I'm sure the school under his able guidance is progressing. Another of our classmates. Father ART HOPE, C.S.C., from Astoria, Ore., seems to be the ofKcial historian for the University, and his recent book on a hundred years' history of Notre Dame is much in demand; in visiting the book store on the campus I saw it much in evidence. 

I received a note from Mrs. William McGrath that our classmate, BILL McGRATH, of Chicago, died suddenly on April 27. Bill was in the assessor's office of Cook County and had a heart attack while at his office. He is survived by his sister, Margaret, his wife, Thcrcsc McGrath, and two children, Wil­liam, Jr., and a daughter, Pat. 
DON'T FORGET THE THIRTIETH REUNION IN 1950. DON'T FORGET THE FOUNDATION. DON'T FORGET CLASS NEWS AND DON'T FORGET TO HELP FIND JOBS FOR NOTRE DAME ALU.XLNI. 
1920—Reunion reshtrants: E. J. Meehan, L. B. Ward. l^ZX—Reunion registrants: E. J. Meagher, W. J. Riley, J. F. Sanford, Rev. R. J. Shcchan, C.S.C, 
W. J. Sherry, W. E. Sweeney. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 39 Cambridge St., Rochester 7, N. Y. 

From KID ASHE: 
GEORGE HENEGHAN is now almost recovered from serious illness after having been confined in St. Luke's Hospital, Chicago, from February to the end of May. George had a real battle on his bands. 
Shexwood Dixon, '20, lieutenant governor ol Illinois, signs a certificate naming ICchael 
F. Seyirit, '23, Carlxnville, lU.. (right) to the State Board ol Pardons in the Division ol Correction. State Senator Timothy C. Donnelly, also ol Carlinville, is at the left. Gover­nor Dixon acted as chief executive ol Illinois in late June whUe Governor Adlai Stevenson was attending the Governors' Conlerence in Colorado Springs. The Dixon-Seyfrit friend­ship hegan at Notre Dame in 1919 when the former was freshman foothcdl coach under 
K. K. Rockne and the latter was a member ol the freshman squad. 
Just as he was due to be released from the hospital in mid-May, he had to undergo an emergency appendectomy. 
He credits the prayers of his wife and friends for pulling him through, and he makes special mention of FATHER ART HOPE, C.S.C, CY KELLETT. MR. and MRS. WALTER SHILTS and TOM Mc CABE. .According to George, no one surpassed good old ROG KILEY in matter of making phone calls and personal visits during the period of his illness. We arc ver>' glad to know of your recovcryi George, and we do thank the Lord. 
Announcement is made of the engagement of Joanne Hirschbuhl, daughter of the CHARLIE HIRSCHBUHL'S (Portland, Ore.) to Bradley Quinn. 
Do you know that R. C. A.'s PAUL PFOHL operates a %-ery fine eating place on Chicago's near North Si^, as a side-line? Resident Paul of Qub Boyar recendy had TOM McCABE, JOE FARLEY. and this scribe in for dinner. 
Aciiording to figures in Alumni Office, our class is still leading all modern day class reunions in attendance percentage. Our rating is 52 per cent made in 1947 at our Silver Jubilee celebration. Credit a great group for stajii^ close together over the >*ears to bring about such a showing. 
Unofficial reports indicate BOB PHELAN, TOM McCABE, and PAUL PFOHL represented 1922 at this years reunion gathering. 
BILL SCHMirr, '10 and CHARLEY HIRSCH­BUHL are members of the building committee at the Uni\-ersity of Portland, formed for the purpose of raising funds for the erection of a new engi­neering building on the campus. 
1922—fl^unfon registTants: J. R. Coryn, G. G. Ken.-er, T. S. McCabe, P. J. Pfhol, R, R. Phelan, 
M. Storen, C. A. Wyime. 
1923 

Paul H. Castner, 1305 W. Arlington Ave., St Paul, Minn. 
Col. JOHN R. FLYNN, veteran of World War I and World War II, has opened an o£Sce for the practice of law at 708 Fort Wayne Bank Bldg., Ft. Wayne, Ind. John, fats wife and son, John, Jr. 
reside in Fort Wayne. 
Just before I9I9 hunnonized in "Let the Best oi the World Go By." Seated clockwise HECTOR GARVEY is eastern sales manager with 
are Ted Bademaker, Class Secretary Chick Bader, Bob Huber, Ed Meehan (who will cele* 
the Bally Manufacturing Co., 2640 Belmont Ave., 
brote again next year with the class oi 1920), Beunion Chaiiman Paul Fenlon ond Chet 
Chicago, 18. He lives at 6161 N. Ozark Ave., Grant* Chicago. 
BROTHER FERDINAND MOSER, C.S.C., is teaching Analytical Mechanics, Mechanical Drawing and Descriptive Geometr>' at the University of Port­land. 
WALT RAUBER has been appointed manager of sales for the switchgear divisions of General Electric's apparatus department in Schenectady, N. Y. 
St. Casimir's Catholic parish. South Bend, cele­brated its 50th anniversar>- in May under the guid­ance of REV. a-VSIMIR J. WmJCKI, C.S.C, pastor. 
FRANK W.-\LL.-\CE President of the Alumni Association, has accepted a new position as contribu­ting editor for "Collier's" magazine. Frank ivill continue to reside in Bellaire, O., but w-ill be re­quired to spend considerable time in New York. He will do his annual football preWew for "Collier's", instead of for the ^'Saturday Evening Post." 
1923—Reunion registrants: J. J.- Casasanta, J. 
R. Flynn, B. J. Hohnbcrg, E. D. Kelly, R. J. Kiley, J. R. Martin, J. L. Montague, R. J. Nash, 
J. C. Norton, W. E. Shea, F. Wallace, T. A. "Walsh. 
1924 
Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, C.S.C., Cavanaugh Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
From Father TOM KELLY, C.S.C., new secre­tarj- of the class: After 25 years Badin was once again a temporary home for many of the Class of '24. Seventy-nine actually registered, though there were a few more than the official figures show. There were 248 on our mailing list and of that number 79 attended the reunion, pardon me, made the reunion the happy success we all felt it to be. a success it was. one of our rla«;«;Tnatr^ came twice. 
The class secretary* wishes to thank one and all who attended for making it a memorable reunion. 
Many on departing already looked ahead to our 30th. Thanks too are due to all those who replied to the literature sent out to the members of the class. To the 51 who urote that for one reason or another they could not come our regrets and to them we say wc hope you can make the 30th. Thanks especially to all who \*-erc so generous with their contributions to our reunion cxjienses. 
For the benefit of the classmates who couldn't make it, here's a brief account of what happened. TTie early arri\*als came on Thursday and of course Badin was delightfully informal that night. The ac* tual 5er\icc didn't begin until Friday morning when we registered and secured our silver *24 reunion caps. The golfers immediately took to the course for the .Alumni Golf Tournament, others hied them­selves to the Rockne Memorial pool, and some went to the lake. But everyone %\'as on hand about 5:30 to get to the Indiana Club for our class reunion dinner with the customary- refreshments before, dur­ing and after. All went oft well. 
Due to the absence of our senior class president, JIM SWIFT took charge and your new secretary distinctly remembers that we unanimously elected CONROY SCOGGINS class secretary in pbcc of JIM HAYES, so that *24 would recci\'c more space in the ALUMNUS during the next 25 years than we had in the past. Jim Swift maintains stoutly that we also unanimously removed Scoggins from the secretary-ship and to this Conroy agrees. At any rate it was a tasty Friday dinner and all present agreed that Johnny Varga, the manager of the Indiana Club had given us a fine deal. Individual groups took up the slack of the evening. 
In the sanctuary' of Badin Hall Chapel, on an easel stood a sign very neatly designed and executed by JIM MEEH-\N listing the names of our 36 de­ceased classmates, both honorary and regular. It was very impressive, standing there alongside the altar during the Mass for our deceased classmates. 
At noon on Sattu-day wc were the guests of the President of the University at a delectable luncheon. Afterwards wc moved to the Library steps for a class picture. Perhaps you'll sec it in the ALUMNUS soon. 

In the evening the annual Alumni Banquet was the culminating point of the reunion. The Ckiss of '29 came in uith an improvised band, there was group singing by each of the reunion groups, be­ginning with the men of '99 all the way down to the youngsters of '44. We objected loudly to the song the Department of Music had chosen as rep­resentative of our era "Tea for Two," and insisted on giving them "Doodle-di-Do." Dynamic Father ROBERT H. SWEENEY, C.S.C., gave the one speech of the evening in nine minutes. The fag of the evening was again taken care of by spedal groups staging their pri\'atc reunions. 
Many were not with us, but thanks to them for writing us anyway. Among these were BILL BAIL­EY, Wilmington, Del.; JOE BERGMAN, San Ber­nardino, Calif.; Brother BERNARD, C.S.C., New York City; JIM BURNS, Taunton, Mass.; FATHER CAPESIUS, O.S.B., St. Bernard, Ala.; DOC CAVA, Mingo Junction, O.; LOUIS CHAUSEE, Long Beach, Calif.; BRUNO COOK, Westphalia, Mich.; FOD COTTON, Norfolk, Va.; BILL CROOK. Pipestone, Minn.; JOHN DALEY, Albuquerque, N. Mex.; JOE DALEY, aevchind, O.; CHARLES De-BARRY, New York City; FERNANDO DeRO-MANA, Peru, S. Amer.; FRANCIS X. EGAN, Chi­cago, HI.; R.-\Y FAHERTY, Birmingham, Ala.; KE.\ FAIVER, Lansing, Mich.; PAUL FREY, Long Beach. Calif.; DICK GIBBO.NS, Campbell, CaKL; GENE GILLIGAN, Newark, N. J.; Most Rev. LAWRENCE L. GRANER, C.S.C., bishop of Dac­ca, Pakistan, together with his associates. Rev. JO­SEPH RICK. C.S.C., and Rev. JOHN KANE, CS.C. 
Also BILL GREAVY, Baltimore; BROTHER GREGORY, CS.C , New Orleans; VINCE HOL­LAREN. Worthington, Minn.; KELVIN KASPER. Philadelphia; MARTIN KOEBEL, Corning. N. Y.; ELBRIDGE LORDEN, Rockford, 111.; LOUIS LU­JAN, Albuquerque, N. Mex.; E. RUSSELL Mc-CLURE. Eminence. Ky.; RAY McGEE, Darien, Conn.; AMBROSE McGIN^'IS, Crown Point, Ind.; 
The Silver Anniversary class of 1924, plus some guests, gathers on the library steps for its pictture. 
First Row: Ray Dohr. Levi Gcniesse, Harold Cooke, Father Tom Kelly, CS.C , Maurice A. NeviUe, '99, L. B. Beardslec, '99, Rev. John H. Murphy, CS.C , vice-president. Father Philip S. Moore, CS.C , Jim Meehan, Tom Gordon, Owen Desmond, Henry Trenkle, Joe Green. 
Second Row: Al Castellini, Farrell Johnston, Har­old Welch, Don Sullivan, Fred Mancuso, Bob Rink, Bud Stillman, Jim Smith, Ed Cantwell, Tom Shee­han, Les Brown, AI Koehlcr, Jerry Fox. win, CS.C , Ed Hunger, Dick Miller, Gene Mayl, 

Third Row: Jim Armstrong, '25, Joe Wagner, Leo Heringer, Ed Sullivan. Rod SuIIi\'an, Hugh Blunt, Jerry Arnold, Patil Ken­Fifth and Six Rows: Ray Lang, &fikc Schmitt, nedy, John O'ConnclI, Tom Barber, Hugh Boyle, Jim Barrett, Har\-ey Brown, Sam Barry, Tim Mur­John Sullivan, Cy Birkbeck, Clarence Joos, Bill phy, Red Maher, Henri Dooling, Harold Londo, Dooley, '26. Tom Hodgson, J. Howard Haley, Walt Novcskcy, 
Fourth Rowr Walt Rader, Tom Walsh, Jim S\iift,' Bob Reagan, Earlc Hurley, Tom Dono\'an, Conroy Jim Hurley, Joe McKeown, Father George Bald­Scoggins. 
CHARLEY McGONAGLE, Neu-ark, O.; HUGH MAGEVNEY, Memphis, Tenn.; CUFF McIN-TOSH, Fremont, Nebr.; JIM McSWEENEY, WelU­ville, O.; BROTHER MAXIMUS, C.S.G., Chicago; HOWARD MILLER, Lakewood, O.; WALTER MORAN, Tulsa, Okla.; FRANK O'BOYLE, Day­ton, O.; JOHN O'DONNELL, Mansfield, O.; RUS­SELL 0*HARE, Chicago; BILL O'NEILL, Butte, Mont.; Rev. RAYMOND A. PIEPER, C.S.C., Port­land, Ore.; Dr. JOHN B. REARDEN, New York City; GEORGE L. REARDON, Detroit; VERN RICKARD, Hollywood, Calif.; CHARLEY ROB­RECHT, Short Hills, N. J.; JOE RYAN, Notre Dame; FRANK M. SABINE, Denver, Colo. Have I missed anybody? Pardon, please! 
Hope you liked the silver anniversary letter we sent you. The credit for that as well as many other items of our reunion, including the dinner, goes to JIM MEEHAN. Thanks for the news of yourselves and others that you sent on the questionnaire. Of the 248 questionnaires sent out, we received replies from 136. At that rate *24 will no longer be absent from the ALUMNUS. 
JERRY ARNOLD is general agent for Lincoln Na­tional Life Insurance in Davenport, la. Father GEORGE BALDWIN is professor of Ph>-sics at Notre Dame. TOM BARBER is a practicing attor­ney in Erie, Pa. GY BIRKBECK is a Mathematics and Mechanical Drawing teacher in Chicago. AL BIRMINGHAM, a salesman, resides in Brockton, Mass. HUGH BOYLE is judge of Orphans Court, Pittsburgh, Pa. RAY BRADY is a retired colonel, 
U. S. Army, now practicing law in Salt Lake City, Utah. HARVEY BROWNE is a ph>-sician in De­troit. ED CANTWELL is president of Cantwcll T^Iachinen* Co. in Columbus, O. AL aASTELLINI is a law>-cr in Cincinnati. MAURICE CLAUSEN is a building contractor in Detroit. HAL COOKE is president of Pathfinder Travel Service in Chi­cago. TOM COOKE, an architect, has established his own business in Chicago, and CHARLEY De-BARRY is an architect in New York City. 
19^4 osserves its silver anniversary with a dinner at the Indiana Club. Left to right OWEN DESMOND is a sales manager in Racine, are Gene Moyl. Jim Meehan, Conroy Scoggins, Jim Swift Father Tom Kelly, CS.C., Harold 
Wis. TOM DONOVAN is an attorney in Chicago. 
Cooke and Ray Dohr. Father Kelly and Jim Meehon were the co-chairmen of the '24 
LES FOLEY is president of the Foley Lumber Co., Jacksonnlle, Fla. JERRY FOX is mayor of Chilton, reunion and the former is the new class secretary. Wis., and chairman of the Democratic State Cen­tral Committee for Wisconsin. LEVI GENIESSE is an architect in Green Bay, Wis. BOB GLASS-
American Furniture Co. of Batcs\-ille, Ind. RAY in Fremont, Nebr. WALT STAPLETON is in the COTT is an attorney in Michigan City, Ind. TOM L.'\NG is a dvil and structural engineer in Mish-financial business in Bridgeport, Conn. CHARLEY GORDON is secretary to the vice-president in charge a\raka, Ind. HAROLD LONDO is superintendent ROBRECHT is a chemical engineer with Standard of sales for Standard Oil (Indiana) in jChicago. JOE of the water department in Green Bay, Wis. RED Oil in Short Hills, N. J. JOE BERGMAN runs GREEN is president of Peoples Realty Co., New MAGEVNEY is district supervisor in Memphis of General Tire in San Bernardino, Calif. JASPER Castle, Pa. HOWARD HALEY is \-ice-president of the Bureau of the Census for the Department of CAVA is a physician in Mingo Junction, O., and the Alma Trailer Co., Alma, Mich. LEO HER-Commerce. EMMETT MILLER is a life under­BRUNO COOK, a physidan in Westphalia, ACcb. 
INGER is a sales engineer for the Johns Manville writer in South Bend. FRED MANCUSO is an FERNANDO de RONLANA is owner and manager in Chicago. EARLE HURLEY is a partner in a attorney in Kansas City. Mo. GENE MAYL is an of a sugar factory in Arequipa, Peru, S. A. BILL law firm in Chicago. JIM HURLEY is a lawjer attorney in Dayton, O. DICK MILLER is an elec­GREAVY is on the editorial staff of the "Catholic in LaSalle, III. CLARENCE JOOS is a shoe re­trical construction engineer in Sa\-\-iIIe, N. Y. JOHN ReWcw*' in Baltimore. 
tailer in Lancaster, O., and leads the class with II McGOORTY is a lawyer in Chicago. CH.ARLEY McGONAGLE a funeral in 
children. PAUL KENNEDY is a fanner in Temple- is director Newark, O. JOHN J.AMES is with the United States De­ton, Ind., and ranks second with nine children. partment of Agriculture in Elgin, III. MARTIN JOE McKEOWN is a manager for the Hines KOEBEL is district representati\-e of General -Mo­
AL KOEHLER of Chicago is manager for the Lumber Co. in Chicago. VERNON MONTEIL is tors in Corning, N. Y. WALT MORAN, in the 
an attorney in Kansas City. WALT NOVESKEY oil business, is president of J. E. Crosbie, Inc., Tul­is a sales manager in E\*anston, 111. JOHN PET-sa, Okla. HOW.ARD DULLER, Lakewood, O., is RICH is an accountant in Minneapolis. BEN PISER 
an attorney. Father RAY PIEPER, C.S.C, is a is a lawTcr in South Bend. WALTER RADER is a 
professor of English at Portland University, Port­
retail clothier in Coshocton, O. BOB RINK is pres­
land, Ore. and JOE RYAN is a professor of English 
ident and general manager of Goshen (Indiana) 
at Notre Dame. 
Manufacturing Co. CONROY SCOGGINS is an at­torney with the Humble Oil and Refining Co., 
I'm sure you all know that our class has the un­Houston, Texas. TOM SHEEH.\N is a highway common distinction of having a bishop in
 our engineer for the United States Public Roads .Ad­
ranks. Most Rev. LAWRENCE L. GRANER, C.S.G., ministration in Columbus, O. JIM SMITH is a bishop of Dacca, East Bengal, Pakistan. He wrote of canner and farmer in Circleville, O. BUD ST7LL-his disappointment in missing the reunion but it*s >f.\N is manager for Republic Sales in Birmingham, a long and costly u-ay from India and back. .Mich. Except for the financial report and thanks to 
SKIG SCOGGINS, DON SULLIVAN and JERRY 
ED SULLIVAN is equipment engineer for the 
FOX for past reunion letters, this doses your secre­
telephone company of Fort Wayne, Ind. DON SUL­
tary's first report. Keep the news coming and we'll 
LIVAN is assistant to the president of the A>Tshire 
print it. Keep '24 in the -ALUMNUS! 
Callieries Corp, Indianapolis. ROD SULLTVAN is an estate anal>3t for an insurance company in Mil­JIM MEEH.AN insbts that we came out of the waukee. JIM SWIFT is counsel for the South­Reunion with a profit of ten dollars which was western Life Insurance Co., Dallas, Texas. LEO split as added recompense between the t^vo stu­VAN TILBURY practices law in Mishawaka, Ind. dents, FRANK SCHNEIDER and TONY DE B-AG­
HAROLD WELCH is with the public relations GIS, who worked in Badin Hall over the weekend. department of the New York Telephone Co. in But in this connection there should be a special Brooklj-n. LES BROWN is a furniture manufactur­
nod toH-ard Schilling's, Inc., of South Bend, the ing agent in Chicago. 
firm in which Jim is a partner. It was only because H.ARRY DRIGGS is a salesman for the Ricth­
Schilling's gave the class a "spedal deal" on print­Riley Construction Co., South Bend. DICK GIB­
ing and mailing costs that there was any profit at BONS is manager of an air brake engineering de­
all. Once more then—tremendous thanks to Jim partment in Campbell, Calif. TOM HODGSON, 
for his heroic part in making the weekend of Jtine Minneapolis, is director of public relations of 
10, II and 12 so memorable. Gamble-Skogmo, Inc., chain stores. JOE MIEL-
Howard Haley, left, and Bill Sheehon 
CAREK is a probation officer in Chester, Pa, CLIF­LEO VAN TILBURY ser\ed as toastmaster at the recall those days of 25 years ago. TON McINTOSH is an auditor and tax consultant banquet for the members of the Mishawaka No. 91, 
Fiatenial Order of Police in the Hotel Mishairaka, Ind. 
TOM FARRELL, '26, wTites from East Orange, 
N. J., that BOB "Pat" CUNNINGHAM became a benedict a short time ago. 
These are the '24 people who registered on the campus o\'er the Reunion weekend: 
J. C. Arnold, C. H. Baldus, Rev. G. J. Baldwin, C.S.C., T. W. Barber, J. H. Barrett, G. F. Barrj-, 
C. T. Birkbeck, H. F. Blunt, Rev. H. J. Bolger, C.S.C., H. C. Boyle, Dr. H. F. Brmvn, L. W. Brown, E. J. Buckley, E. G. Cantwell, A. D. Cas­tcUini, C. A. Chouffet, H. J. Cooke, P. J. Craden. 
E. N. DeGursc, O. E. Desmond, E. T. Dinneen, 
R. P. Dohr, T. C. Donoran, H. C. Dooling, W. J. Drennan, J. F. Fox, L. A. Geniesse, R. E. Glass­cott, J. A. Green, T. E. Gordon, J. H. Haley, L. 
C. Heringer, T. H. Hodgson, E. G. Hunger, E. C. Hurley, J. D. Hurley. 
J. F. Johnston, C. T. Joos, Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, C.S.C, P. J. Kennedy, A. I. Koehlcr, R. J. Lang, H. L. Londo, W. R. Sfaher, F. G. Mancuso, 
E. A. Mavl, J. P. McGoorty, Jr., J. P. McKeown, 
J. R. Meehan, J. E. Miller, R. C. Miller, Rev. P. 
S. Moore, C.S.C., T. J. Murphy, M. E. Nolan, 
J. J. Norton, W. G. Novesky, J. C. O'Donnell, F. 
E. Pick, W. R. Rader. 
C. A. Rauh, R. P. Reagan, R. M. Rink. W. F. Ry^n, M. A. Schmitt, R. G. Scoggins, T. J. Shce­han, J. I. Smith, Jr., H. B. Stilhnan, E. S. Sulli­ran, G. D. Sulliran, J. P. SuUiran, R. E. SuUiran, 
J. P. Swift, H. J. Trenkle, J. A. Wagner, W. H. Welch. 
1925 
John P. Hurley, The Toledo Parlor Furniture Co., Toledo, O. 
From JOHN HURLEY: Believe it or not it's "25 for '25" next June! The class of '24 liad a fine turnout, and we have rec­ords to beat! The separation of the Commencement acti\-ities from Alumni Reunion was a definite suc­cess. More fellows can be accommodated; the eat­ing problem is solved, and the whole campus is turned over to the alumni. A few plans are already underwav to make our 25th the best e«r ! With JIM ARAISTRO.XG in there pitching for us, we can be sure the .Alumni Ofiice and the University will do their part to make it the largest attended and most enjoyable 25th Reunion ever! It's up to you out there to do your part to spend the rest of this year, and the first six montlis of next, contacting your pals to see that they are on deck. After all, that's what makes a successful Reunion. Our Reunion Committee will be enlarged as we go along, but as a starter we will have JIM ARM­STRONG and Father JOHN LYNCH, C.S.C., on the campus. BILL CERNEY will appoint a South Bend committee to take care of the refreshments. Fellows like GEORGE KOCH, RUSS ARNDT and CLARENCE H.MIDING will be on hand to help him. LEO POWERS of Chicago will take care of the Windy City's "twenty-fivers." Leo was at the June Reunion and promised to get a committee to get 75 per cent of our class back from Chicago—that should be our goal—^75 per cent of '25. (52 per cent is the record for the 25-ycar class now—it was set by the 1922 gang in 1947.) 
HERMAN CENTLIVRE came over from Fort Wayne for the Reunion and had some fine ideas on making our Reunion different. 
DAN SAMMON of Cleveland (who claims both '24 and '25) and FRANK STEEL of Akron were traveling together over this year's Reunion. 
From what I've seen of the boys from our class, 
DAN SAMMON has changed the least in looks-he is the same as that day back in June, 1925. Don't let that bald head or grey hair keep you away, because you will have plenty of company. Tell the family now that you have a date with the '25 boys next June 9, 10 and 11. 
GEORGE BISCHOFF will handle the Indianapolis crowd. DON MILLER and AL SOMMER, the Clevelaiid fellows; HANK WURZER the gang along the Mississippi, and ADAIbl WALSH the Four Horsemen, Seven Mules, and the rest of that famous 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Dr. John A. Vciichulis 

A significant advance in medicine, vic­tor)' over Typhoid Mar)', was announced early in May by Dr. John A. Vaichulis, '29, of Manteno State Hospital in Illinois, and Dr. A. C. Ivv, vice-president of the Univer­sit)' of Illinois. 
Typhoid Mary is the name given to per­sons apparently healthy who carr)' the ty­phoid germ and are capable of infecting others with it. Such persons have long posed a serious problem in public health. Immune up to now even to the so-called wonder drugs they have been compelled to live under strict state regulations \'irtually as prisoners on probation. 
A new drug, combining penicillin, three sulfa drugs, staticin, which prevents penicil­lin from being excreted too rapidly, alcohol and a dye, has successfully been adminis­tered to Typhoid Marys at Manteno State Hospital by Dr. Vaichulis. His experiments with the drug discovery began there in 1946 when 146 patients, all Typhoid Mary vic­tims, were isolated in a special building. Today all but six are considered as cured and released to live freely witli the other patients. Dr. Vaichulis believes that the remaining six will soon be evacuated. The isolation building, lunir-worth-a-TnilKDn'dol-" lars, will soon be available to relieve over­crowding in the institution generally. 
The successful experiments of Dr. Vai­chulis are being carefully studied by public health departments who are dealing with the non-institutional Typhoid Marys. 
team. JOHN BARTLEY will get the '25 men out of Broadway and Wall St. How about some volun­teers for other sections of the country? 
Let's hear from all of you so we can have news in the '25 column this coming year. Send me a card while on your vacation and tell me about yourself and yoiu: family; and also give us any ideas that you may have about next year's twenty-fifth reunion. Let's make it the ;gcst and best the University has ever had. 
In "Indiana Authors and Other Books, 1816-1916" recently published by Wabash College, in Indiana, thanks are given in the introduction to TOM BAR­RY for his use of "Bibliographical and Biographical Dictionary of Indiana Authors." Tom compiled the latter work as his dissertation for his master's degree, received at Notre Dame in 1945. He is now a news­paper and printing man in Paso Roblcs, Calif. 
RIP MILLER, assistant Navy athletic director, says his son, Tommy, is going to enroll at Duke, a grid opponent of the Middies. This was the sub­stance of an AP story out of Baltimore on June 28. Tommy, a tackle, is six feet and 205 pounds. He wants to study medicine. 
1925—Reunion regbtrants: J. E. Armstrong, W. 

J. Bossingham, H. G. Centlivxe, J. J. Danch, R. K. Gordon, J. P. Hurley, J. A. Kelley, E. J. Luther, 
L. J. Powers, J. W. Roach, F. E. Steel. 
1926 
Victor F. Lcmmcr, Box 661, Ironwood, Mich. 

GEORGE HARTNETT has announced the estab­lishment of George F. Hartnett & Company, Chicago, as brokers in peanuts, nuts and feeds. The new firm has offices at 221 N. LaSalle St. George and his family reside at 1033 Miami Road, Wilmettc. George, Jr., a top high school swimmer, is entering Williams College this fall. 
ART BIDWILL'S son, Joe, left Notre Dame, a year ago as a junior and has completed his first year at the Dominican House of Studies, River Forest, HI. 
At a dinner at the end of the schoolyear honoring 145 students connected with four Notre Dame stu­dent publications, editors for the coming ^-car were announced, DENNIS O'NEILL, '51, son of DENNIS 
J. O'NEILL, of Cleveland, was named editor of the "Dome.'* His father, you will recall, was editor of the 1925 "Dome." 
VIC LEMMER writes that while he was in Lan­sing, &ficfa. he had a meeting one afternoon with BILL WnrfiNBURG, '33, super\-ising auditor of the Michigan Auditor General, and MEREDITH DOYLE, an assistant Michigan attorney general. He also saw NED FENLON, '27, in the session of the legblature. Ned is a law partner of Prentiss Brown at St. Ignace, Mich., and is a former member of the legislature. 
A recent wsitor in Vic's office was ED SIMON­ICH, '39, who was on a short vacation from his duties as the athletic director of the Central Catholic High School at Sioux City, la. 
Vic had also heard from JOE MENGER, '25, who is all excited about the Southern Methodist game. 
192&—Reunion regbtrants: W. R. Barr, W. R. Dooley, V. L. Goulet, Rev. J. H. Kenna, C.S.C, 
J. A. Navarre, J. J. Ryan. 
1927 
Joseph M. Boland, Radio Station WSBT, South Bend, Ind. 
From JOE BOLAPO): 

With LOU BUCKLEY, who rides herd on the strays in the next range, charging down on us sec­retaries, it behooves the membership to rally 'round and make this space a worthwhile investment in news .. . or that Buckley, vice-president of the Alumni Association, will be giving this ol' ranch-hand a hot-hoof! So—drop a card, or note, about your activities-^egal, or otherwise! 
; LUTHER M. "MIKE" SWYGERT, judge of the Dorthem IncBana U. S. district court, has been mraticmed prominently as a nominee for a court of appeals juf^eship which may be created by Congres­sional action. 
ED BRESNAHAN is now assistant manager of the 

Fort Wayne branch office. Retail Credit Co., with home offices in Atlanta, Ga. 
RICHARD "RED" SMITH, ambassador-at-large in charge of all trades for the Chicago Cubs, was a campus visitor when Notre Dame played and lost to Wake Forest in the Regional NCAA baseball play­ofTs. Red was high on future baseball prospects of DICK GIEDLIN, current first baseman on the V3T­sity. 
The other RED SMITH, who authors a daily sports column for the "N. Y. Herald-Tribune," that is about the best in the columning-business, recently turned prophet to predict that 1950 would be the last >-ear in coaching-harness for Notre Dame foot­ball coach FRANK LEAHY. Red Smith claims Frank will go into business with FRED MILLER, '29, following the '50 football season. 
BILL HALLORAN is an executive with Sears, Roebuck and Co., Chicago. 
Saw JOHN WALLACE briefly at the Alumni Re­union. Wallace, now a Packard dealer in Calumet City, reported CHARLEY RILEY, one-time quarter­back star, is doing a great job selling cars for the Wallace agency. 
JOE REEDY, with the Chicago Metal Hose Co., gets into South Bend regularly. Joe is residing at 426 Surf St., Chicago, and he passes along the in­formation that CHET McDONALD is now living at 201 Nesmith St., Lowell, Mass.; that HAROLD "DING" McCABE is located in Rockford, III., in the insurance-adjusting business. VINCE McNALLY is the proud father of a seven-pound boy. The baby is the second child of the McNallys. Vince is now assistant to the general manager of the Philadelphia Eagles. 
Didn't get to check up on '27 men at the Re­union . . . because of twin obligations: Alumni Board meetings, and a small matter known as a job which had to be attended to here in South Bend. Sorr}- to have missed, but BILL DOOLEY has added 
the list of '27 men who made it back to the campus 
for the first post-Commencement Reunion, which 
made a big hit with everyone, from what I was able 
to gather. 
Dooley add—these from '27 registered somewhere on the campus over the Reunion weekend: 
J. M. BOLAND, W. P. CLARKE, Jr., W. J COYNE, W. S. FINUCANE, H. E. JONES P F SIZE, J. J. WALLACE, E. j . WILHELM 
CLARENCE RUDDY, president of the Aurora Chamber of Commerce this year, was the leader of the CIVIC delegation that visited Gov. Adlai Steven­son m lUinob recently. Their problem: allocation of necessary state funds to build a dam over Fox River at Aurora. 
1928 

Louis F. Buckley, 4700 W. Adams St., Chicago 44, 111. 
From LOU BUCKLEY: 
BILL JONES and I attended the Alumni Board meetmg and the reunion weekend at Notre Dame. Bill has made significant contributions as a fresh­man member of the Alumni Board. 
E\-er>one returning for class reunions agreed that the new plan of holding reunions the week foUow-Jng graduation is most successful. Keep that in mind for 1953. You will be interested in knowing that the class cap inno^-ation which our class intro­duced last year was adopted by each reunion class this year. The caps are extremely popular, even with the older alumni. 
WILLARD WAGNER and I discussed plans for our 25-year reunion in 1953 and as you can sur­mbe, Wag already has some fine new ideas to make it even better than our 20-year reunion, if that is possible. 
I met a number of our *28 classmates who return­ed to Notre Dame again this year for the Alumni reunion. Those from *28 who registered included JOHN FREDERICK, HENRY HASLEY, BOB GRANT, GEORGE COURY, BOB KNOX, FRED SOLMAN, WILLIAM H. MURPHY, LEO McIN­'28 men since they were with our class for four years, including WILLARD WAGNER. VINCE CARNEY, BILL BROWN, CAP GRATHWOHL. TOM FARRELL and BILL DOWDALL. 
We were pleased to have a '28 man, LEO Mc-INTYRE, recognized at the Alumni Banquet for outstanding achievement in his Notre Dame Foun­dation work in Eastern Pennsylvania. Leo has also contributed a room to the new Science Center in honor of his mother and father. 
ED QUINN gave an exceptionally fine report to the Alumni Board on student testing and counsel* ing work at Notre Dame. Ed is doing a grand job in this field. The Alumni Board is very anxious to see this work expanded and more closely integrated with a student and alumni placement program which will be developed. 
The firm of Kent and Rector, Certified Public Accountants, with offices in Columbus and Delaware, O., has announced the admission of FRANK STROHM, C.P.A., as a partner in the firm. Frank has been associated with this organization for seven j-ears and for the past two years has been manager of its Delaware ofiice. 
We have the following report on the 1949 re­union \vcekend from GEORGE COURY. who now commutes weekly between Miami and Chicago: 
"In contrast to last year, our class was quite con­spicuous in the scarcity of members attending—I would say there were no more than twenty— headed by our good-looking president, JOHN FREDERICK, who came back with his son, 16 years old. He was planning on duplicating his father's athletic prowess in the not-too-distant future. 
"HENRY HASLEY, with his usual beaming coun­tenance, represented our class from Fort Wayne. JOE KINNEARY, the ven* eligible bachelor from Cincinnati, together with JOHN FONTANA made my banquet dinner more pleasurable by their con­tinuous joshing of one another. At the speakers' table our class was well represented by our eminent Washington attorney, BILL JONES, and your good self. 
"The landslide of the Democrats last ^"ear was not at all bad inasmuch as it was responsible for BOB GRANT being present at the reunion the first time in years. As you know, Bob had represented South Bend [3rd Congressional District] in Congress since 1936 until the man from Missouri sent him back home to start practicing law again. He now has his own law office in South Bend. 
"As usual, WILLARD WAGNER was on hand to help me drink a couple of beers and tell me how he kept from being massacred by CECIL ALEXAN­DER last year. You will recall how Willard ma­neuvered to have me and Cecil bunk in the same room. Willard managed to prove one thing, that the Syrian and the Jew can live tosetfaer hamlessljr for three days, if no more. InddeataUy, Gedl vzated me on his hoaeymoon in Bliami last December and, while he left my scalp, he beat me at pins Vong and separated me from a few doUaxs at gin rammy. Willard also was in Bliami last year, as %vas Gl ^ JENKINS who came to the home for dinner and an evening of reminisctng about the past and, in particular, our wonderful retmion. 
"On my way up to Chio^o this time, I stopped in to visit my <Ad roommate, OSCAR RUST, in Greenburg, Ind. Besides boasting of a wonderful family of ux children (his oldest son will start at Notre Dame next September) Oscar has the largest variety store in this prosperous midwest town. As usual, Oscar is wrorking hard and doing well. 
"Our old standby, IVofessor QUINN, %vas on hand to cheerfully greet everybody, and while Father LOU THORNTON, C.S.C., belongs to the class of '28, because of our mutual interest in stocks and bonds, I always considered us as belonging to the same class. Lou and I had our annual discussion about economics and enjoyed a most pleasant visit together. Incidentally, as you all know, Lou is doing an outstanding job. His honesty and sincerity of purpose lends a spirit to his work that is very much Notre Dame. 
"As for myself, I am back in Chicago on a part-time basis. Last December I sold my chain of launderettes with the idea of just loafing for a >'ear or two. Last March I was made tnistee of a company here in Chics^o that went into Chapter II, the Bankruptcy Act, and so now I alternate between here and Afiami. 
"Yesterday EDDIE RAFTER, who is with the Internal Revenue Department, called and visited a while on the phone. Uncle Sam has quite a judg­ment against our company for delinquent taxes, so you see why I have a double reason for being nice to Eddie. He drives a hard bargain, which was taught him by his old roommate, BILL CRONIN. Bill t(X>k me at gin rummy last year, so maybe I savvd money by his not attending this year's re­union. 
'*Well, • Lou, this is all the news I can recall at the moment. If any of our friends are in the "Windy City," I hope they will give me a ring. Address: Eicor, Inc., 1591 W. Congress St., Tele­phone, Ch 3-1234." 
Thanks, George, for the newsy letter. I wash to agree with George on the outstanding job Father Lou Thornton is doing as registrar at N.D. \ 
It was also good to hear from GEORGE SARGUS from Elm Grove, W. Va., where he is connected ^vith the Thomas Dry Goods & Shoe Co.. 2193 National Road. George mentioned that LARRY WINGERTER visited him recently on his way east from San Antonio, where he is vice-president and 
TYRE, ED QUINN, ANDY BOYLE, JOE MOR­RISSEY, JOHN FONTANA, JOE KINNEARY, They almost broke into song! Reunion Chcdnncm (and now Clan Secretary) Don BILL JONES and FLOYD SEARER. There were, 
Plunkett, '29, second from left, tells the happy '29 story to Txmd Wogner* '29. Bill Dooley. 
of course, a large number of men back who are technically classified as '29, but wc claim them as '26, and Tony Kopecky, 29. 
32 

general manager of the San Antonio Transit Co. Larry has three children. George reports that he sees JOHN NIEMIEC and BULL POLISKY at the local N.D. club affairs. They are still \%-orking with the Bishop of Stcubenv-ille on his fine athletic pro­gram for Catholic >-outh. GUS JENKINS stopped to see George a few months ago. George has two children, a girl of nine and a boy of five. George inquired as to whether WILLARD WAGNER re­cci\-ed the box he sent him after the reunion. 
George asked me to let the gang know you arc all welcome at the Sargus residence. 
I had the pleasure of talking on the phone to RAY LUSSOX, who is with the Chicago Board of Education, and seeing ED KEENAN, who is with the Cook Count>' Court. Ed looks just the same as he did in 1928. 
You probably read the editor's note in the last issue about JOHN IGOE being critically injured in an automobile accident at the end of April. John's car skidded on a cun*e near Wooster, O. He was thrown headlong to the pavement and was seriously injured. After being in a coma for 15 da\-s, be snapped right out of it and amazed the doctors and nurses by fully recovering from his injuries. The doctors refer to him as the "Miracle Man." so John has about decided to give up the steel business and get into the cami\'al racket. John asked me to tell Notre Dame of his gratitude for Her help. He considers his being restored to his family a miracle— the answer to the thousands of prayers that friends e\'er>-uhere sent up in his behalf. John mentioned on June 23 that they were expecting their fourth child shortly. 
I r«grct to report that ED McKEOWN had to return to the hospital to undergo an operation on his leg as the result of the auto accident which took place last November and previously reported. A bone had to be cut from his shin and grafted on the place where his leg was broken. Ed is now at his summer home at Dune .Acres. Chesterton. Ind. He advised me on June 27 that he would be in bed for another six to eight weeks. Drop him a line. 
JOE GERAGHTY came through with a fine letter from 50 Quentin Rd.. Rochester, N. Y,, as follows: "First of all I want to congratulate you and WILLARD WAGNER and all the other mem­bers of the class of '28 for such a successful re­union in June, '48. I know that this is a late con­gratulation but that was the t>'pe of reunion you can think about a year later and recall how nice it was to meet all your old classmates once again. I am sure looking for^^•ard to the 25th reunion and hope A\-e will have a larger return of classmates than we had in '48. 
"DON CORBETT. a neighbor of mine, is practic­ing law here in Rochester and is ver>' active in Boy Scout work in our parish. KEN POWER is deputy county clerk and \*er>' active in politics. PHIL O'CONNOR is working at Eastman Kodak and still one of the '28 bachelors. JOE DEBOTT is manager of one of Geneva's leading men's furnishing stores and JOHN LARSEN is working for the dty of Geneva, N. Y. Health Department. JOE HAXEY from NcH'ark, N. Y., was in a serious automobile acddent about a month ago but believe he is on the road to recovery now. Joe is practicing law in Newark. GENE SCHILTZ also from Newark, X. Y. is, I belie\-e, in the coal business. 
"I spent a \"ery pleasant evening recently wiih 
F. X. JAMES O'BRIEN who with his \rife and three boys and two girls had returned from Japan to SDend a \-acation of about two months in the good old U. S. A. O'Brien is connected with the Securi­ties Branch of the U. S. Government in Japan and is v-ery happy with his connection. He has not changed much. 
"Yours truly is still in the stock and bond business —what there is of it." 
Finally, let me give you a news%- report from iLARTY RYAN from 49 W. Mohawk, Buffalo, 
N. Y. Mart>- writes: "For some time after the 20th year reunion I planned on sending WILL.ARD WAGNER a letter of thanks for the wonderful set­up that he had for us. but never did. I also wanted to send JOE MORRISSEY a letter of thanks for the pictures which were appreciated but never did. BERNIE BIRD is still the deputy dty treasurer and doing a fine job. I see JOE ANGELINO, '28 and *29, arouRd town but never received much news of him. I guess he is too busy raising a family. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Emmett A. McCabe 
EMMETT A. MCCABE, '29, is a member of 
the board of directors and director of ad­
vertising, public relations and sales promo­
tion for tlie Consolidated Vultee Aircraft 
Corp., San Diego, Calif. Also a director of 
the Norraac Corp., leading manufacturer of 
prefabricated houses, he is on the Board 
of the San Diego Chamber of Commerce 
and also on the Board of the Notre Dame 
Club of San Diego. 
In 1934 Mr. McCabe successfully man­aged the Congressional campaign of John Costello, Holl>-\vood, and went to Washing­ton as Congressman Costello's secretar>-. Subsequently he became Washington repre­sentative for the Los -Angeles Chamber of Commerce and for a number of aviation companies. 
With the coming of World War II, Mr. McCabe was commissioned a first lieutenant in the AAF and became the personal aide to its commanding general, H. H. Arnold. Traveling 300,000 miles by air in the course of the war, he was instrumental in formu­lating some of the plans for the Four Power Conferences at Casablanca and Quebec. H e was decommissioned in 1946 with the rank of colonel and holds the Legion of Merit, the Air Medal and all theater ribbons. 
Mr. McCabe joined Consolidated Vultee in 1947 after managing, in 1946, the suc­cessful Congressional campaign of Charles 
K. Fletcher. 
FR.\NK.COXXORS is still the big wheel in Arcade. I saw him at the Universal X. D. dinner. One of the missing men of the class of '28 turned up in Buffalo—GEORGE CONNER. He is working for an advertising firm—married. I called GUS JEN­KINS for news—Gus is a good source of neH'S as he travels all over the east for the Dunn Welding Co. He told me that DON DONAHUE is an attorney in Batavia his hometown and DICK GREEN an engineer with the Grouse Hinds people in S>Tacuse. ART SLAVEN has charge of scvoal The Notre Dame Alumnus 
States [or the Soil Consen'ation Dept. of the U. S. gm-emment, with headquarters in Milu-aiUcee. SAM PRINZI, '27, is in Ellwood City, Pa. 
*'I am still at the same job with the Express com­pany, and single.*' 
Former Representative BOB GRANT discussed his wartime work on the naval affairs committee at a recent meeting of the Council Oak Chapter, Re-sen-e Officers Association in South Bend. FRANCIS MESSICK, '30, is president of the organization. 
JIM DEVLIN, Toledo, has been appointed district manager for the Ohio Bureau of UncmpIo>Tnent Compensation in Northwestern Ohio. Jim was mar­ried recently. His address: P. O. Box 271, Toledo 1. 
GEORGE SCHEUER, aviation writer for the "South Bend Tribune," was reelected vice-president of the Aviation Writers association. George will also serve as regional director for the association in Indi­ana, Michigan, Ohio and Kentucky. 
GEORGE BEAMER, attorney in South Bend, was elected a lieutenant governor of the Fifth District Optimists clubs. 
1929 
Don J. Plunkett, Biology Department, 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
[Due to the pressure of his personal business and his residence in an area where he meets compara­tively few Notre Dame men, DICK NOWERY re­signed in May as secretar>- of the class of 1929. At the June reunion, the class by acclamation chose his successor, DON PLUN'KETT. .. . To Dick go the thanks of the Alumni Association, as well as of the class, for his hard and effective work. To Don go the same thanks for his heroic accomplishments as chair­man of the '29 20-year reunion (and we assure you that they were really heroic) and for his continuing work for the class as its secretary.—Editor] 
From DON PLUNKETT: 
Sure was a genuine pleasure to see the 121 grad­uates of the class of 1929 back for their 20th reunion. We all thought that the '34 class appeared older and grayir than our crowd. They just didn't seem to have the vitality and rotundity* that was so prominent among the 1929 members. 
The reunion went off in fine style, thanks to a 
' 100 per cent participation on the part of all '29er3 present. The entire class owes and extends thanks to the following for helping to make the weekend such a success: 
To DICK NOWERY for hU monumental work in preparing the directory "The '29ers at Twenty." . . . 
To Vmt. UiKBY STAUDER for the many hours of detailish work on the reunion plans. . . . 
To Rev. JOSEPH B.ARRY. C.S.C., for celebraUng the Mass for our deceased classmates. . . . 
To WILLIAM CRAIG, WILLIAM KREIG and NORB BERGHOFF for their work in organizing the '29ers of Indiana. . . . 
To JOE LAUBER, South Bend sheet metal man, for the use of his trucks and drivers. . . . 
To FRANK BELTING for swinging the Minne­sota group. .. . 
To GERRY O'CONNOR for hU fine efforts in bringing in the Pennsylvania delegation. . . . 
To JOE WHALEN for excellent results with our grads in Iowa. . . . 
To HUGH MciL\NIGAL, Dr. FRANK PAUL K.ANE and WALTER GILDEA for their sizeable checks as contributions. . . . 
To TONY KOPECKY for singing like Tony Ko­pecky. . . . 
To JIM DIGAN for his contribution and sugges­tions. . . . 
To TOM McDOUGAL for his cheer-leading ac­tivities—excellent. . . . 
To BOB SCHULZE for managing our baseball team to victory. . . . 
To Father OTIS WINCHESTER for not pitch­ing more than one inning in our baseball game. .. . To JOE LENDIAN for pUnning "the Parade cf the '29ers" to the Dining Hall. . . . 

To RED CURRY for furnishing the ifartian atmosphere. . . . 
To Drs. GEORGE McDONNELL, ART MORE­LY and JIM TOBIN for setting up their "Health Center" in Dillon Hall. . . . 
To Father LOUIS THORNTON, C.S.C, WIL­LARD WAGNER, TOM FARRELL, JOHN CUSH­MAN, Father JAMES NORTON, C.S.C, D.AVE CAMPBELL, CAP GR.\THWOHL, and FR.\XCIS JONES for helping with the organization of the reunion locally. . . . 
To JOCKEY McMAHON for his music and all around help. . . . 
To JOHN V. SMFFH, DON ALEX.WDER, WIL­LUM BROWN, ED GARRFTY, KARL KASCH­EWSKI, LOU NIEZER BERXY HUGGER, BILL DOWD.\LL, FRANK HEUPEL, CLAUDE HORN­ING, JOE RADIGAN, FRANK SLO.AN, DOC DOUGHERTY, PAUL BERTSCH, TOM McNICH-OLAS, VINCE CARNEY, and CHARLES De GROTTE for their very early encouragement and checks away back in mid-.-\pril when our plans w*erc fint announced—many thanks. . . . 
To HANK BURNS, LARRY MOORE, JIM O'CONNOR, NORB BERGHOFF, FRED WAG­NER, BOB McVETY, GAYLORD H.\.AS and TOM JORDAN for getting the Friday night party under­way at the Oliver and keeping it rolling. . . . 
To MARK WONDERLIN, CLYDE ATCHIN­SON, DO.N SCHETTIG and RAY ANGSTEN for running those inventories on Dillon Hall basement every two hours and telling me of our needs. . . . 
To BOB ALT, JOHN DORG.\N, JOE MUL­HALL, JOE NASH, JOHN NASH, PAT GREENE, DICK HAUGH and BOB TYLER for keeping the over-all '29 reunion program running smoothly and in a synchronizing manner. . . . 
To FR.ANK GUSHING for representing our class in the swimming events. . . . To CLAIR BLACKHALL and GERRY O'CON­NOR for their contributions. . . . 
To TOM McDOUGAL JOE FITZGERALD. LARRY MASON and JIM DIGAN for their legal talent. . . . 
To MURRAY GLASGOW for his contribu­tion. . . . To JIM BR.\DY and Station KIFI of Idaho. . . . To OLLIE SCHELL for his help in the pro­gram. . . . 
To FRANK O'BRIEN and RALPH ZIMMER-AlAN for their many fine suggestions on correct pocedure for the reunion events. . . . 
To SAM COLARUSSO for representing Neirark, 
N. J., and bringing in the news. . . . To CLET SCHNEIDER, JOHN COL.\NGELO, LORENZO BRENNEL, JOHN MORAN and KARL MARTERSTECK for taking care of the Ohio dele­gation. . . . To Dr. JOHN VAICHULIS for his monumental contributions to the field of medicine (see "Time" 
magazine May 23, and a Spotlight Alumnus story, this issue].... ' To BERNIE BIRD for representing Louisiana and 
help on the reunion details. . . . To CHARLES McKINNEY, JOHN DORGAN, LOU NEIZER, JIM BRADY and FRANK DOAN for managing our end of the golf tourtument. . . . To JACK KEARNS for representing Champaign, 111., and suggestions on the reunion. . . . To BOB BRAECKEL and JIM FITZPATRICK for bringing in the Missouri delegation. . . . To WALT MULFUR, WILLIAM JOHNSON, FRANK MEYER and MAURY FADELL for their work in organizing the Gary-Hammond district for the reunion. . . . To LOU REGAN and BOB VOGLEWEDE for representing Minneapolis. . . . To FRANK DOAN. WALTER HART and RO­LAND SCHLAGER for their help in Illinois. . . . To ED DONOHOE and BOB HUGHES for rep­resenting Cincinnati. . . . To JOHN LYONS, DAN McCAIN, MARTIN CONLEY, FRANK SMOLA and CLARENCE JANS for their fine cooperation in Chicago. . . . To BILL O'CONNOR and KENNETH KONOP as delegates from Indianapolis, on and off the ball field. . . . 
To Dr. CORRIN HODGSON (Mayo Qimc) for bis check even though he was unable to attend. . . . To JOE O'BRYAN for his help in keeping the 
'29eri informed in Kansas. . . . 
To E.ARL LEECH and WILL GROTTY, the Michigan boys with the terrific stories, for their help. . . . 
To BERNIE KEARNS, JOHN BURKE, ELMO JL\YER and BILL COYNE for help in Dillon on the Saturday afternoon program. . . . 
Also, to the classmates who got here to attend at least part of our reunion, BOB NEWBOLD, JIM KEATING, JULES GROSSJLAN, ANTHONY De-DARIO. MARSHALL KIZER. KENNETH HECK, NORM JENKINS, JIM QUINN and Rev. J. H. CORCOR/\N, C.S.C. 
Lale Cancellations 

We're sorry these boys couldn't make the festivi­ties: DO.\ ALEXANDER, BERNIE HUGGER, JOE R.ADIGAN, CHARLES DeGROTTE, CH.ARLES COLTON, JOE D.\UTREMONT, GUS DIETER, JIM HARRIG.AN, MURRAY GLASGOW, BILL CRONI.N, MARTIN FOLEY, ED G.AY.XOR, JOHN ROWLAND, REYNOLDS SEITZ, CHRIS WIL-HEJfY, ORSON DAUSXUN, TOM LAWLESS, GEORGE MONROE, GERRY O'CONNOR, EM­METT McCABE, PETE MORG.AN, JOHN MUR­RAY, BILL DONELAN, BILL BYRNE, CAESAR JANESHESKI, BILL BURNS, and Dr. E. J. LYONS. 
Post-Reunion Ataii 

-Anpreciate p-^t-r-^union letters from JOHN DOR­GAN, BILL KREIG, NORB BERGHOFF, BOB McVETY, MICKEY NfcMAHON and LOU NEI­ZER. 
Masses for Deceased 

Twenty-four Masses are being celebrated, by priests from the 1929 Class, this month for our deceased classmates. If you u-ish to participate in offering more Masses, let me know. .All Masses will be said by members of our class. 
FINANCIAL REPORT 

Total Receipts for Reunion Weekend 5636.00 
Total  E.xpenses  „  ~_  427^6  
Balance  208.44  
DISPOSITION  OF THE  BALANCE  

24 Masses for 24 Deceased Members 24.00 Donation, Class of 1929 to N.D. Foundation 140.44 Retained by Class Secretary for Postage, 
Stationer>" and Clerical Help 44.00 
S2n3.44 
THE MAIL POUCH 

JOE RADIGAN writes from Rutland, Vt., under the letterhead of Abotiell, Ratligan and DeUiveoeri. . . . JOE CRONIN is with Fiigidaire Sales Corp-of Oakland MURRAY GLASGOW is presi­dent of the Glasgow Brewing Co., of Norfolk, Va. 
FR.ANK D. SLOAN (Sloan & Whitfird, tax con­sultants) is located in Fontiac, Mich. . . . JOSEPH 
H. KELLY writes to inquire about JOHN DUDAS, CHARLES BEMBEN and CHARLES WOLFRAM. Joe is located in Endicott, N. Y: . . . REYNOLD DENIGER is president of the Canners Seed Corp. The Denigers have three chilflren. . . . 
JOE HISS sent his best reunion wishes to all the '29ers from Oakland, Calif. He is manager of the Capitol Co. .. . Dr. JOSEPH P. SULLIVAN is practicing medicine in Bananquitas, Puerto Kco. . . . MICHAEL J. CUNNINGHAM & Co. (import­export business) is in Los Angeles. . . . VIC HART writes as sales manager for Hankins Container Corp. of Union, N. J. . . . 
CHARLES BUSCHEMEYER is with the Louis­ville Board of Education (assistant in curriculum). . . . CHARLES H. SMITH is auditor for the U. S. Department of Reclamation in Denver. . . . RAY DRYMALSKI, judge. Municipal Court of Chicago, was unable to attend the reunion. . . . BOB BUST writes from Ada, Okla., as manager of Stone Con­struction Co. . . . 
ROBERT A. DICK is an attorney in Denver. . . . JOHN J. DONAHUE writes a fine letter from Phibdelphia, where he is connected with the Bu­reau of Reclamation. . . . BILL BISER is located in Buffalo as sales engineer for General Electric Co. . . . D.AVE SAXON is in publicity work in Mem­phis. 
Rev. GEORGE L. DUM, CS.C is associate pro­fessor of Philosophy at the U. of Portland. . . . LEO SCHRALL is at Bradley University, Peoria, as the head baseball coach. . . . PAT McDOUGALL is associate editor for the "Michigan Police Jour­nal" (Detroit). . . . MARCELLUS KIRCHNER wrote from Jlemphis that be was unable to attend the reunion because of illness. 
BUS GRIFFI.N sent best wishes to the '29ers from 'Morristowtt, N. J., where he is recreational super­intendent. . . . EMMETT McCABE sent his re­grets. He is director of public relations for Con­solidated Aircraft in San Diego. . . . Dr. COR­RIN H. HODGSON is consultant in Internal Medi-
The class of '29 enjoys that Friday night seacion at the OUTer. CIodnriM bom left ioreground are Walt Mulilur, Larry Moore, ICekey Mdfohon. Bob MeVety, Father Otis V^nchester, Don Schettig, John Cushman. Henry Bums and SyWester Dougherty. 
cine (thoracic) at Mayo Clinic . . . EUGENE &QLLIFF is a design engineer for the Ohio Bell Telephone. You can locate him at Rocfc>* River. . . . PETE MORGAN is assistant track coach at Princeton University and sent greetings to all at the reunion. . . . CARL De BAGGIO writes from Arlington, Va., as attorney for the Federal Bureau of Narcotics. .. . 
HUGH McMANIGAL is owner of the Acme Con­struction Co., Miami, Fla. .. . Dr. ANTHONY R. DEMMAN is a phj-scian and surgeon in Helper, 
NEXT YEAR'S BEUNION 
The 1950 Alumni Reunion will be held on Friday, Saturday, and Sun­day, June 9, 10 and 11 — the first weekend following Commencement. The five-year classes of 1900, 1905, 1910, 1915, 1920, 1925, 1930, 1935, 1940 an d 1945 vrill have special gather­ings and several of them are al­ready under way with their plans. Watch for later announcements but mark your calendar now. 
Utah. The Demmans have two children. . . . LUD­WIG PETERSCHMIDT is secrctair-trcasurcr for Engineering Laboratories, Inc., Tulsa, Okla. . . . Dr. CHARLES A. BAUM is practicing dentistr>­in Hamilton, O. . . . JOHN WALTZ wxites as as­sistant secretary and treasurer for the Canton Stamp­ing and Enameling Co., Canton, O. . . . 
GUS DIETER is assistant director of Construction, Tulsa District, Corps of Engineers, Pr>-or, Okla., and w*rites that he'll drop in at N. D. this fall for a game. .. . Dr. EDWARD J. LYONS is practicing dentistry- in Philadelphia. . . . PAUL ROSS is an attorney in Chicago. . . . 
My secretary- is leaving on her vacation in about 20 minutes, so I must hurrj-. I'll have the rest of the neu's from the mailbag with the next issue of the ALU-MNUS. Have a nice summer. 
*
 TWENTY-FIVE YEAR REUNION • 

*
 JUNE, 195+ * 


* PLAN TO BE HERE * 
The following from 1929 registered somewhere on the campus over the reunion weekend: 
R. N. Alt, R. J. Angsten, C. G. Atchinson, Rev. 
J. D. Barry, C.S.C., F. J. Belting, N. G. Berghoff, 
P. A. Bertsch, B. J. Bird, J. M. Brady, R. J. Braeckel, L. L. Brennel, W. E. Brown, J. T. Burke, 
H. L. Bums, D. L. Campbell. V. F. Carney, J. F. Colangelo, S. A. Colanisso, M. J. Conlcy, Rev. J. 
J. Corcoran, C.S.C., W. J. Coyne, W. F. Craig, W. 
E. Crott}-, J. M. Currj-, F. J. Gushing, J. H. Cushman, A. J. DeDario, J. £. Digan, F. E. Doan, 
E. F. Donohoe, J. W. Dorgan, S. J. Dougherty', 
W. P. Dowdall, M. G. Fadell, T. iL Farrell, J. 
A. Fitzgerald, J. L. Fitzpatrick, E. C. Garrity, Jr., Rev. J. N. Garvin, C.S.C., C. R. Grathwohl, P. 
S. Greene, J. Grossman, G. P. Haas, W V Hart, Jr., R. E. Haugh, K. I. Heck, F. G. Heupel, C. H. Horning, R. W. Hughes, C. T. Jans, N. B. Jenk­ins, E. A. Jewell W. J. Johnson, F. Jones, T. J. Jordan, Jr., B. T. Kearns, J. T. Kearns, Jr., J. E. Keating, J. P. Kennedy, M. F. Kizer, K. J. Konop, 
A. J. Kopecky, W. H. Krieg, J. W. Lauber, E. E. Leach, J. V. Lenihan, J. J. Lyons, Rev. B. L. Mc-Avoy, C.S.C., D. I. McCain, Dr. G. J. McDonnell, 
T. E. McDougal, Rev. A. M. McDowell, C.S.C., 
C. J. McKinney, T. F. McMahon, H. J. McMani­gal, R. A.' McVety, K. E. Martersteck, -M. L. Mason, F. D. Mc>«r L. A. Moore, J. F. Moran, Dr. A. L. Morley, J. S. Morrisscv, E. E. Moyer, 
W. H. Mulflur, J. H. Mulhall, J. R. Nash, J. H. Nash, R. G. Newbold, L. F. Niezer, Rev. J. E. Norton, CS.C, F. J. O'Brien, J. G. O'Bryan, J. C. O'Connor, Jr., W. S. O'Connor, Rev. C. J. OTooIe, C.S.C, D. J. Plunkett, J. J. Quinn, L. J. Regan, P. C. Ross, O. F. Schell, D. A. Schettig, 
R. G. Schlager, C P. Schneider, R. J. Schulze, 
A. M. Smith, J. V. Smith, F. A. Smob, L. F. Stauder, Rev, L. J. Thornton, CS.C, Dr. J. W. Tobin, R. M. Tyler, Dr. J. A. Vaichulis, R. B. Voglewede, F. J. Wagner, W. F. Wagner, W. J. Weber, J. E. Wbalen, Rev. O. S. Winchester, F. M. Wonderlin, R. C Zimmerman. 
1930 
Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
THOMAS J. O'NEIL has been appointed assistant manager of the accident and health department and manager of the accident and health claims depart­ment of the Illinois Bankers Life Assurance company at >fonmouth, IH. 
LT. FRANCIS M. MESSICK, USNR, was elected president of the Council Oaks chapter. Reserve Offi­cers Association, South Bend. 
JOHN ROC/\P was reelected state deputy of the Indiana Knights of Columbus at the close of the an­nual tlirce-day convention. TOM MEDLAND, '30, of Logansport was reelected state treasurer. 
D.\N C-\NNON, Columbus, O., is progressing with plans for the 1930 20-year reunion next June and announces that BERNIE CONROY will be help­ing him. FATHER RAY TOTTEN, a priest in Columbus, will be the class treasurer for the occasion. Watdi for announcements. 
1930—Reunion registrants: G. .A. Heineman, R. 
T. Hellrung R. A. Holmes, XL F. Kizer, C F. Lennon, H. L. Stettlcr, Rev. R. H. Sweeney, CS.C, 
R. B. Young. 
193 I 
Walter F. Philipp, 4 Pickwick Lane, Newton Square, Pa. 
The following men are connected with the All­state Insurance Company, 20 N. Wacker Drive, Chicago: ROBERT E. GORMAN, '32, advertising manager; JOHN T. MORAN, '30, claim manager; AL^^N G. KOLSKI, '31, assistant claim manager; EDWARD J. HUNTER, '42, undervs-ritcr; JOHN 
M. O'ROURKE, '43, preparation division; WIL­LIAM F. RUPP, '33, assistant general counsel. 
JERO.ME J. CROWLEY, president of the O'Brien Corporation in South Bend, was elected a member of the board of directors of the National Bank and Trust Co. 
FRANK McADAMS, JR., Chicago, is attorney for Preston Tucker, president of the Tucker Corporation. Spike was one of the judges in the recent Walcott-Charles fight. 
1931—Reunion registrants: J. E. Barr, E. A. 
Coomes, J. F. Deeb, D. J. Egan, J. B. Graham, 
A. C. Gri:anti, H. S. Kopek, R. L. McKenna, J. D. McQuaid, R. A. Massey, T. E. Oakes, A. A. Pe­trauskas. 
1932 
James K. Collins, 17 Triangle Ave., Dayton 9, O. 
From JIM COLINS: I was very sorry to learn rccendy of the death of STAN CZAPALSKI on Jan. 24 at his home in Chicago. This was written to me by ERNIE HECH­INGER who said Stan died a few minutes after calling a doctor. Stan leaves a daughter, age 9, and his widowed mother. His wife died when their daughter was born. Stan left many fnends who mourn his passing. He was a druggist and operated a store in Chicago. He was very active in the Knights of Columbus, and for many >*cars led bowling teams to state and na­tional tournaments. 
Ernie further wxotc that he recently saw JACK HERBSTRITT who was looking and feeling fine and is the father of five children. Jack is associated with the Chicago Hardu-are and Fixture Co. in Franklin Park, 111. Ernic^s address is 535 Clarence Avenue, Oak Park, 111. 
An announcement of the birth of twin boys to beaming JOEL OSTRANDER and his wife on April 20 was accompanied by the following note: '*I*11 bet there are not many, if any, former roommates ol ND who can equal the record of TOM DUFFY and me as each of us now ha\*e twins as part of our families. These two boys added to my three girls give me a full house as well as a bouse-full. 
REV. PAUL J. HALLINAN, director of the New­man Center in connection with Western Reserve Unixersity in Cle\-eland, conducted the fifth annual retreat for young ladies of post-high school age at Camp Christopher, Akron, O., over the weekend of June 24-26. 
TOM BATH w ^ the speaker at the cemetery services in observance of Memorial Day in Misha­waka. 
MARCHIE SCHWARTZ, Stanford football coach, is|supplcmenting his income this summer by operating food concessions at California fairs, according to an item in the "Chicago Tribune." 
1932—Reunion registrants: Rev. V. P. Brennan, Rev. J. J. Burke, CS.C, F. R. Ernst, W. A. Kiolbasa, J. J. Staunton. 
1933 
Joseph D. A. McCabc, Rosar>* College, River Forest, HI. 
From JOE McCABE Dear *33*s: Sorry to have to have missed firing my large-bore typewriter at you last edition, but Rosary College, like all schools, w*as a mighty busy place in that pre-Commencement stretch run. If you*lI excuse the personal note, being around Rosary at gradua­tion time was a reminder of those hot June days back in '33 when we all groantngly donned black for the annual academic Turkish bath in the g^m: where are the sunstrokes of yesterday? 
For that matter, where the aitch are the guj-s of yesterday? 
All I know is what you write me about, and that wouldn't get me by freshman religion. Oh, I see a few ND's here and there: Judge ROGER KILEY, JOHN McGOORTY and ED STEPHAN are on the Advisory Board of Rosary; NEIL HURLEY, Jr., lives here in River Forest, as does FRED SNITE, 
1332 
Gene Bernhardt, '33, leh. Sturgeon Bar, Wis., was a member oi the team which won the doubles championship at this year's American Bowling Congress in At­lantic City. Gene's partner, Don Van Boxel, is at the right. 
'As the picture indicates, 1332 was the score which won the championship for Gene and his partner. Van Boxel's high game was 277, one of the highest rolled at the ABC this year. Gene's high game in the championship event, and his highest of the season, was 249. 
Gene writes that in IS years of bowling in his area he had never met Van Boxel until the morning the two local teams were leaving for Atlontic City. When the lotter's scheduled partner couldn't make the trip. Gene was asked to take over for hin. 

BOB GORMAN, JOE PETRTTZ, JOHN and JIM 0*SHAUGHNESSY, LEO HODEL, JIM CAR­MODY, PAUL 0*TOOLE, BARRY O'KEEFE (his sistcr-in-bw's an alumna here), JOHN GOLDEN, TOM SEXTON, PAT and JERRY CROWLEY, ED VYZRAL, MAURY LEE, BILL CORBETT, are heard from or about. The above names are a mix­ture of all classes, but this column is a true de­mocrac>*—age and beauty, the wealthy, the middle classes and public relations men are mLxed indis­criminately. All I ^^•ant are names and news. Write, hey guys? 
Had a fine trip to Washington recently; met FRANK (SPIKE) McADAMS on the train; he took me to a dinner at the Shoreham for Sen. Paul Douglas, who represents the U. S. as well as Illinois —a rarity—in the Senate. At the hotel, attending some Catholic school convention were Father FRANK GARTLAND, G.S.C., and Father JOHN (HACK) WILSON, C.S.C. Saw them at a party at TIGHE WOODS*, Federal Housing Expediter, who really wishes he had more to expedite. 
Just to show I'm non-partisan, Tighe*s diarming and beautiful wife. Luc>-, is organizing a St. Mar>''s alumnae dub for former across-thc-roadcrs who live in and around Washington. Had several fine chats with TOM McKEVITT, who supplied the following data: DAVE AGNEW is now living in Arlington, Va.; CHARLIE FARRIS is with the National Re­gional Planning Board; CLAY JOHNSON is wth the Royal Liverpool insurance group in New York; ED O'CONNOR, as careful readers of the ALUMNUS know, is a member of the DP Commission; BOB CAVANAUGH is special assistant to President Tru­man on international bank affairs; EDDIE O'BRIEN of Pittsburgh is with a paint company; FRANK AN­DRAY is with the Department of Agriculture; JOE LOUGHLIN is with a powder company; LEE MORMAN is with Internal Revenue; BILL KARL is in the Navy Department, and JIM WARD rep­resents a farm machiner>* firm, repeat, farm ma­chinery firm (from N'Yawk?). None of the above names or facts represents the opinion of the writer, but he would love to get a correction. 
He would love to get a letter, period. Saturday's Children: Inasmuch as there will be no collection taken up today, will the audience kindly remain in their seats while the elder (I began in *28) offers a plug for his favorite devotion? Namely, the First Saturday Mass and Communion—or, for that matter, any special devotion to the Blessed Mother. Here's a thought to mull over: Mary is the Spouse, the actual Spouse, of the Holy Ghost. (When you think it over, it sounds like an andcnt Greek myth, that a human being should become espoused to God—but it*s an awe-inspiring, endlessly amazing Fact.) Mary is the Spouse of God . . . and who swings the most weight in your household— particularly when it comes to getting favors for the kids, or earning forgiveness and a waiver of punish­ment for them from the Kfan of the House? Think it over—we're all Her children, too. . . . 
LOUIS R. CHREIST has been named vice-presi­dent in charge of manufacturing of the South Bend Toy Manufacturing Co. The post is a newly created one. Louie, sttll one of the top amateur tennis players in South Bend, has been with South Bend Toy since his graduation. He was factory manager. 
REV. EUGENE DORE, C.S.C, '38, and REV. FREDERICK A. SCHMIDT, C.S.C., of St. Mary's Missions, Lampasas, Te-xas, had a school, convent and social-center dedicated by Bishop Reicher of Austin, Texas, on May 8. 
TIGHE WOODS, the Federal Housing Expediter, was heard on the radio on June 21 on **Town Meeting." You guessed it: the subject was rent control. Tighc was impressive too. 
DON M.-\RTIN is in the real estate and insurance business in Pittsburgh. His ofHccs are at 4905 Penn A\-enue, Pittsburgh, 24. 
JOH.N McNAMARA, instructor in John Adams High school. South Bend, has been recently appointed director of pupil personnel for the school dty. 
RICHARD HOSTENY, assistant agent in charge of the Chicago office of the FBI, has been appointed to head the Milwaukee FBI office. 
BEN DELA-HUNT will teach at the new Mil­waukee high school, Pius XI, in the fall. 
FRED SNITE, JR., with his wife and three daughters, are back from their annual stay in Florida and will spend the summer in Chicago. 
1934 

Edward F. Mansfield, 6575 Glenwood, Chicago 26, 111. 
From ED MANSFIELD (elected by the dass on June 10 as its new sccretar>'): 
When 122 red-capped '34 men gather in Dillon Hall for their 15th reunion and talk for three da>'S for the first time in 15 years, news just stacks up that high. Then when another 50-odd depression DP's unable to return send in a flutter of cards and letters expressing regrets, it stacks up higher for a new class sccretar>*. 
We're going to give you a review of the best weekend our class ever had, w*ith an appendix of personal notes gleaned from conversation. (Personal notes taken from Cahill's correspondence will follow in the next issue of the ALUMNUS:) 
Since Chairman BOB C/UIILL, ND ticket man­ager, did such an outstanding job of originating ideas and canning them out for our pleasure, his open letter to the class will take top billing in the reunion report: 
"Dear Classmates: It was wonderful to see you all here and if you had as good a time as I did, you truly enjoyed the weekend. To those of you who could not make it, my sincere sympathy. If you talk to anyone who came, I know that you will be here in '54. 
"We made a profit of $58.26 on the entire week­end. Anyone w*ishing a detailed breakdown may have it from me, but to save space we condense it here: 
Receipts ... . $750.00 
Expenses ... . 691.74 
Net Profit $58.26 

"We collected $217 at the Smoker for a television set for TOM DALTON. From the profit we have added $33 to this fund making an even $250 which we have sent to CHICK MARR.-\ in Brooklyn to procure the set for Tom. The remainder of the profit—$25.26—we added to the $178.50 we had on' hand from the Chalice Fund of a few years ago and have turned over to the Notre Dame Foundation a total of $203.76 as a gift from the Class of '34 towards the new Sdence Building. 
"The reunion arrangements consumed considerable time and effort, but I want you to know that your voluble tribute at the Alumni Banquet Saturday night was more than suffidenC compensation. I shall never forget it." 
A footnote about the Dalton fund: the news that Tom was at a veterans* hospital came as a jolt to the Oliver Hotd gathering Friday night, and the spontaneous creation of a television fund for bed­ridden Tom was perhaps the most satisfying example of dass loyalty of the weekend. (Write Tom at Kingsbridge Veterans Hospital, Bronx, N. Y.) 
The 122 returnees cams from 19 states, Canada, and the Canal Zone. Illinois won with 30, Indiana placed with 21, and Ohio slipped into the money with 11. Pilgrims from Texas, Louisiana, Virginia, and the east coast brought the round-trip trek aver­age per man to about 870 miles. 
Button-popping reports of future campus dwellers for ND and St. Alary's were not complete. The pop­ping of buttons drowned out some details, but of those whose patter Jnduded the patter of little foots at home, the progeny average per classmate (and wife) was three. High man present was DR. JACK DORSEY with seven. 
Four boasted sLx, six reported five, 17 had full backfields, 19 had outfields. Only five have one to silence when JOE BOLAND'S radiocasting has ND on somebody's one-stripe. (Of the absentees, LUCIEN DAIGNE^VULT of Malone, N. Y., is rumored to have ni-yen. Any disputants?) 
Perhaps those with eyebrows at the highest sur­prise level over the growth and added beauty of the campus were the long-time-no-see boys of whose ranks nine admitted no campus return for 15 years, one for 14, one for 12, and eight for ten. 
Men of '34 are proud of 20 wearing the dark garb of the Church. Six are secular priests, seven regulars (four C.S.C.'s, two O.S.B's, one O.F.M.), and seven are Holy Cross Brothers. One of the padres, of course, was FATHER GEORGE BELT­ING of Cleveland, who fought a long, a brave battle against illness, won, was ordained, and died a priest. A note of interest is that five of the blackrobes worked for some time after graduation before turning in the tweeds for something neat in black. 
So you 400-odd absentees will start looking up rocket-ship timetables for '54, we'll run through the weekend pleasures quickly as a build-up. 
One-Man-Gang Cahill turned the Friday night re\-dcrs Ifxise June 10 in the Rotary room of the Oliver (hotel, not plow). 
He unveiled a 30-foot stretch of Friday food so artfully designed that the Friday aspect was sub­merged. Chowliners quickly grasped the technique of holding plates in the left, grasping late-arriving 
The latest in men's neckwear is modeled by '34. Left to right Hughie Devore, Reunion Chairman Bob Cahill and Walt Kennedy. 
}iands with the right—alia time working in that furti\*e ducinng motion to peer at name plates on upper paunches. 

To close up the '34-M9 gap very quickly, CahiU «ven had a pianist primed through library research to tinkle out depression radio tunes heard on no^ nllowance Saturday nights in snow-plastered halls. (For non-returnees who want to compare tonsures 
•and vraht lines with returnees, write the Alumni 'Office for the Oliver party picture; pin on a buck). 
Names coming to the fore at the Oliver were these -winners of North Carolina game tickets: JACK DORSEY, champion father present with seven; 'BILL SHERIDAN, distance champ from the Canal "Zone; LARRY O'NEILL, door prize tiilist. 
.\mong faculty members adding to the partv were: TATHER ROBERT SWEENEY, C.S.C., FATHER TO M BREXNAN. C.S.C., PAUL FENLON, and 
•cx-music-master JOE C.ASAS.A,XT.\ (believe a ten •o*clock arrival caused us to miss a few). 
Saturday morning, the lead-off event was different, F.\THER ED SEWARD, *34, of Cleveland offered "Mass in the Dillon chapel for 21 deceased '34 men. A page picturing most of these 21 was distributed at ^fass, and can be obtained from Cahill while they last. The deireased of the class are: 
Terrel E. Austin, Francis L. Freely. (Rev.) 3>atrick H, Haherty, C.S.V., John P. Ffrench, Proncis B. Gartland. A. Gerald Farrell, Howard H. Fiannery« Bruce T. Graham, 
(Bev.) George E. Belling. Thomas W. Green, Francis L. Lavengood, John H. Do> liinsky, Edward H. Sherman, B. Joseph Degnon, Robert H. Meiklejohn, Andries A. Curtin, Brother Anostasius, C.S.C., Donald 
X. Dixon, Joseph M. Ford, John J. Roche, Prancis D. Van Allen. 
Besides the informal room-to-room drifting Sat­urday, Dillon Hall guests enjoyed the golf tourna­ment, mories of campus research and development -and football highlights, walks to far corners to get -new buildings related to '34 scenes. Then the soft ^29 capitalists softballed against the alert, bronzed, 
•depression-hardened, clean-limbed *34 kids. 
FATHER HOWARD KEXNA, C.S.C., P.AT :XL\NION, and FRANK 0'^ULLEY handled very professionally the afternoon seminar on **Xotre Dame and the World,'* attendance on a warmy afternoon with countrj'-clubby competition nearby \%-as en­couraging. Ex-en some '34 men were there. 
At the Alumni Banquet Saturday night, classes sat in groups, with the uniform of the day colored caps and white shirt sleeves. The city desk of the Alumni Office will chronicle the banquet highlights for you, so we'll just mention that >rD's best class pro\-ed itself the loudest when Cahill and Krause (Ed) got the cheer of the year. The blast of the red-cap's roar blew Chief Steu'ard Ziggie's tie in his face, 'way out in the white kitchen. Then the class song's resonant echoes had Fred Waring ripping up his arrangements Monday morning; our "Stormy Weather" was another sly Cahill salute to job pros­pects as of June 4, 1934. 
Even the ex-skivers staj-ed in Saturday night to match "do-you-remember-whens." The beer and coke bar in Dillon sub had one or two customers. 
You'd be surprised if you knew the total of two's and three's at the grotto and on lake paths Saturday night. The chance to do that xv-as certainly a key part of the weekend, and many a hall chapel door opened to hands a bit older and more experienced than those hands were in the winter of bank closings. Some of those hands even had learned to grip a weapon's stock, a technique unknown and unfore­seen from '30 to '34. 
Sunday morning, D for departure day, former class president JIM MOSCOW, now Father James Moscow of Chicago, offered Mass in Dillon. The chalice was the one given by the class to memorial­ize its World War II dead; the names are on the clialice. 
Sunday afternoon, the reluctant break-up for 122 reunioneers became inevitable; inevitable, because it was '49 and business and families were waiting; reluctant, because the spell had been rewo\'en since Friday night, the sjiell that only Notre Dame can weave for Notre Dame men. The list of 21 penna* ncnt absentees emphasized the passage of !5 years and led to speculation about '54. 
One hidden factor that should be spotlighted brought much satisfaction to BOB CAHILL: the surprising lo\-aliy of men who had no chance to come back, but who insisted on contributing to the fund for the weekend. 
Wires cams from these disappointed stay-at-homes: GEXE BLISH of Denver, GEORGE WENZ of Jersey Citv, BILL VEENE^L^N of Louisville, and P.-VUL Mc^L\NUS of Puerto Rico, who RCA'd: "Dcenly regret inability to be with DALTON McKIERNAN GROSS famous Finchlej^ et al. of '34; a solitary toast to venerable classmates from Puerto Rico." 
The University plans to tie class organizations closer to members and the school, and it seems smart. We'd like ideas from all of you, for the aggregate of business and professional experience since '34 should lead to good ideas for the class. One most frequently offered involves a survey of the class by mail for addresses, family status, war service, present business in relation to college major. Drop a line. We'd particularly like correct addresses for the *'**unclaimed" entries on the roster you re­ceived. 
From alumni of other schools, we learn there just isn't an old-grad gathering separate from the lure of a big game that compares with these June suitcase safaris to South Bend. The new, separate-from-com­

1934 takes on nourishment in the Cafeteria. 
 From the left; George Moloney, Ed Gra­

ham, Bob Chenol, Jock Hagan, Clarence Hellwig, George Colhoun and Lorry Coipsntsr. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
mencement reunion idea this year met with 112 per cent appro\-al. 
Only one change can be suggested to Bob CahiU, chairman for 1954 (just nominated!). To his perfect co-ordination of this session, we strongly suggest that he add just the presence of ever>' man on the 500­plus roster in June of '54. Then he will remove the solitary objection heard in '49: 
"I certainly wish old * had made it." 
(• Any name you insert should regret his absence, 
plan for '54) 
Brevities about returnees who talked or wrote for publication, knowingly or unknowingly: 
BILL AYRES: now with Studebakcr public reki­tions after city desk experience in Binghampton and on the South Bend '*Trib." 
JIM BOSCO: in Cincinnati with Bunte candy 
sales department. 
HARRY BURCHELL: traveled 1934 (!!) miles 
for his first campus \*isit in 15 years. 
BOB BUTLER: ex-major, air force; Clevelander turned Texan, recently left operations manager's desk at Slick Airu-a>s for his own stone business. 
BOB CAHILL: claims title as man whose major subject had least to do with his career (degree in foreign commerce, has been on the campus for 20 years, sa\*e for «-arring in the Pacific^. 
GEORGE CALHOUN: Pure OU Co., Chicago. 
JOHN CARR: Allison engine research and pro­
duction statistics, Indianapolis. 
JOE (have you bought your books yet?) CAUL­
FIELD: back for first time in 15 years, dropping his 
sales promotional work for Campbell Soup in Chicago 
just for this weekend. 
BOB CHENAL: assistant trust officer. Second 
National, Cincinnati. 
HUGH DEVORE: very successful as coach of St. 
Bonaventure's and of five Devorcs. 
JACK DORSEY: plastic surgeon in New York and 
co-supervisor of seven Dorscj-s. 
RALPH ELSE: resigned from the Na\-y in *47 
to enter contracting in Buffalo. 
VINCE FEHUG: wth LOU and PAUL and Dad in box and lumber business, St. Louis; still a good man ^ith a WZT club off the tee, despite little practice time because of a) much work, b) four Fehligs. ' 
V. G. FRANSIOLI: Sears buying office, Chicago. 
JACK GORMAN: La SaUe Street lau^-er, Chi­cago. 
WILLI.AM W. GREEN: civil engineer. Corpus Christ!, Texas. 
EDDIE GRAHAM: insurance in Galesburg, III., after FBI duty. JACK HAG.\N: steel salesman, mucho travelo, Youngstown, O. 
LOWELL "RED" HAGAN: no longer wears full­back's pads, but sells shoulder pads in those '49 men's suits in his store at Mexico, Mo. (reported JACK FLYNN on crutches over a \-ear after a car acddent). 
JACK J. HAYES: deserted New York for Chicago, father of four. 
LEO HENDRICKS: Hendricks Printing Co., Logansport, Ind. 
HARRY HUMBRECHT: Ft. Wa>-ne, Ind., archi­tect. 
HUGO L^COVETTI: publishing house in Pitts­burgh, with much editing of legal publication matter in his hands. 

DICK KELLEY: English major ^\ith muscles, now in the bayou lair of the LSU Bengals in Baton Rouge; custom furniture. 
WALT KENNEDY: pro basketball league pub­lidtor (BAA) and glib aide to Ted Husing on the air. 
BILL KENNEY: unlike many who have forsaken their major field, Charleston's Bill is still in phar­macy; inspected e\-ery inch of PROF, REYNIER'S LOBUND quarters. 
EDDIE KING: auditor and tax consultant, Hamil­ton,, Ont. 

BOB KOLB: with Fred L. KOLB Co., printing and office supplies, Akron. 
JACK LACEV: after nine army years ending with Air Force colonelcy overseas. Jack resigned and 

signed with Ccnnecticut Mutual Insurance in Chi. cago; married last November. JOHN LOGAN: now city judge. Fort Wayne, Ind. GEORGE MALONEY: Maloney Motors, Canton, Ohio. PAUL LAFRAMBOISE: Sicard, Inc., heavy machinery, Montreal. PAUL ("MURF") MANOSKI: associate editor, "Our Sunday Visitor,** Huntington, Ind. 
AL McGUFF: combines very successful head-coaching at Weber High in Chicago with paper sales. 
JOHN McKIERNAN: combines law with lieu­tenant-governing in Rhode Island. JOHN MCLAUGHLIN: beer distributing and radio stations, also in Rhode Island (as a server 
MEMBERSHIP APPUCATIONS 

Degree holders ore automatically members oi the Notre Dame Alumni Associatioii. But those former stu­dents of the University who did not receiTe degrees are eligible to be elected to membership in the Asso­ciation and are cordially invited to make application accordingly. Ap­plication forms will upon request ba supplied by the Altmmi Office and will be acted upon by the Aliunni Board at the first possible moment. 
Saturday] added a new liturgical touch to FATHER ED SEWARD'S Mass when he spoke volumes with a shoulder shrug as RED FORREST got the signal from Father Ed to change the missal procedure). 
JIM MORRISON: construction, Hammond, Ind. BILL MOTSETT: of W. J. Mouett, Inc., mater­ial handling equipment, Peoria. DICK MULLEN: shifted from Sioux Falls to 
Fairbault, Minn. HARRY NORTMAN: architect, Chicago. TOM OAKES: lumber, fuel, building material, 
Clinton, la. EDDIE O'BRIEN: now in Silver Spring, Md., with U. S. Gutta Percha Paint Co. of Providence. BILL O'BRIEN, teaching at Central High, Bridge­port, Conn. AL PANELLA: sales in Connecticut for Abbott 
Laboratories of Chicago. J.ACK O'NEIL: office machinery-, St. Louis. CHARLIE QUINN: has a fuel oil business, New 
Yorlc. NED QUINN: an ^LD. (in Bloomfield, N. J.) and one of the 5.child fathers. JOE QUARTUCH: store equipment, Michigan City. PAUL SCHRENKER: of Schrenker and Schrenkcr (Heinle), law, Anderson, Ind. ELI (Abraham) SHAHEEN: machine tool plant in Stuigis, Mich. BILL SHERIDAN: with de gov'n'mcnt in the Canal Zone. GENE STRONG: Strong Heating Co., St. Louis. 
RAY TROY: hw, Newark, N. J. HUGH WALL: law, Dayton, O. BOB WARD: postmaster, Chillicothe, III. 
And the class secretary: deserted Carolina, Bir­mingham, and Denver for. Chicago now with Crown Zellerbach Corp. (paper) since breaking a 49-month friendship, one-sided, with the army's combat engi­neers; sales work, Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky. 
To BOB CAHILL from FATHER SWEENEY, executive assistant to the president, came this letter of gratitude to the class: 
"Many, many thanks for the class check for $203.76 which you gave to the Notre Dame Founda­tion this month. The generosity of the Class of *34 is indeed appreciated and I hasten to express my personal thanks. 
"With such loyal alumni as yourself and the other 
members of your class staunchly supporting the Uni­
versity with moial and finanrial aid, the future of 
Notre Dame looms strong and secure in the eyes of 
all of us who arc so vitally interested. I am con­
fident that you, too, share a feeling of giatificatioD 
in the knowledge that you are helping to train and 
educate the future leaders of our country. 
"I ask God to bless you and the class of *34 for 
your generous gift to the University and for the 
encouragement that you have given us in our en­
deavor to secure the necessary funds for the new 
Science Center. 
"I have told FATHER CAVANAUGH about this 
act of generosity on the part of your class. Will you 
accept this as an expression of thanks from him as 
well as me?" 
JOE DWYER adv^ises us that his new address is 224 2Ist Place, Santa Monica, Calif. JOE BRADY was elected president of the Lions Club for the 1949-50 year in Mishau-aka. 
GIL BURDICK, in charge of swimming at Notre Dame, is behind the Learn-to-Swim Drive in South Bend, under the sponsorship of the American Red Cross. Gil is chairman of water safety with the ARC. 
ALAX BAER, formerly of South Bend, is now national director and secretary of the vocational service bureau of B'nai B'Rith, 1746 M Street, NW., Washington, D. C. 
BUD VITT was abroad at reunion time. While in Paris he got in touch with classmate HAROLD RHODDY. Bud ordered a '34 cap anyway. 
These '34 men registered somewhere on the campus over the Reunion weekend: 
A. J. Alt, W. D. A>Tes, J. A. Bosco, L. J. Brug­ger, H. M. Burchell, R. W. Butler, M. R. Cahill, 
G. W. Calhoun, T. E. Carey, L. E. Carpenter, J. F. Carr, J. A. Caulfield. O. J. Ccrney, R. C. Chenal, 
R. L. Clark, J. E. Clauder, J. O. Cole, Jr., F. T. Crego, L. C. Crego, R. C. Crnkovic, E. J. Cunning­ham, \t. J. Curran, Jr., T. P. Daly, H. J. Devore, 
J. A. Devine, J. F. Donnelly, J. J. Dorsey, R. F. Else, V. J. Fehlig, E. J. Fisher, R. T. FitzSimon, 
J. J. Forrest, R. M. Fox, V. G. Fransioli, D. J. Froehlich, I. Garnitz, J. P. Gorman, E. A. Graham, 
W. W. Green, T. R. Grimes, E. W. Hafner, J. R. Hagan, L. L. Hagan, R. L. Hamilton, R. J. Hanley, Jr., J. J. Hayes, C. T. Hellwig, L. F. Hendricks, 
E. J. Holland, E. J. Holman, H. J. Humbrecht. 
H. A. lacovetti, R. E. Kclley, J. F. KeUy, J. W. Kennedy, W. J. Kcnnev, J. W. Kiely, E. J. Kiep, 
E. C. King, J. E. Kiple, R. J. Kolb, J. W. Lacey, 
P. H. LaFramboise, E. F. Lee, W. F. Lewis, G. P. Maloney, Jr., P. A. Manoski, E. F. Mansfield, A. F. Marra, J. B. Martin, F. W. Matthj-s, F. C. McCann, 
T. B. McDcrmott, A. L. McGuff, T. L. McKevitt, 
J. S. McKiernan, J. J. Mcl.aughlin, M. G. Meyers, 
C. K. Millhcam, W. B. Middendorf, J. R. Morri­son, R. J. Morrissy, Rev. J. V. Moscow, W. J. Motsett, T. C. ifoynihan, R. W. Mullen, W. R. Murphy, Jr., H. R. Nortman, T. W. Oakes. 
E. J. O'Brien, Jr., F. F. O'Brien, J. J. O'Brien, 
W. F. O'Brien, Jr., J. J. O'Connor, III, R. D. O'Connor, Jr., J. W. O'Neil, L. T. O'NeiU, P. W. Ott. A. J. Panclla. J. F. Pavlick, Jr., B. C. Pollard, 
J. E. Quartuch, C. F. Quinn, Jr., E. D. Quinn, 
N. H. Rascher, G. K. Reese, V. J. ReUhman, W. J. Rockenstein, H. P. Rockwell, Jr., H. F. Schaffer, N. 
J. Schenkel, P. E. Schrenker, Rev. E. J. Seward, 
E. J. Shaheen, W. J. Sheridan, Jr., J. A. Smith, 
G. E. Strong, J. G. Templeton, R. W. Troy, J. G. Vaschak, H. E. Wall, Jr., R. E. Ward, H. F. Wunsch, J. P. Youngen. 
1935 

Franklyn C. Hochreiter, 1327 Pentwood Rd., Baltimore 12, Md. 
Mayor E. SPENCER WALTON, Mishawaka, is the newly.electcd state department junior vice-com­mander in Indiana for the Veterans of Foreign Wars. 
BUD RADDATZ writes from Richland, Wash., where he is with the Hanford Engineer Works for General Electric. He reports that his brother, LES, '33, is still with NBC in Hollywood and has live youngsters with a sixth due in October. 
GAPT. LEO J. FOMENKO had a 60-day leave in South Bend after a SO-month tour of cfaity ia Japan, a tour which took him many times oo in­spection toars of penal institutes throughoot the country. FoIIowiiis his leave be was assigned as aik­instructor at Sprii^field, O. Leo escaped bum * German prisoner of war camp in March, 1945. 
1935—ReiMtoii Ttgalranls: P. J. Fisher, W. P. Kelleher, J. H. Logan, Jr., J. P. Quirk. Jr. 
1936 

Joseph F. Mansfield, 349 Weaver St, 
R.F.D. 4, Greenwich, .Conn. 

MARK WALSH, manager of the Paddock Hotel in Beatrice, is the new president of the Nebraska Hotel Association. He had previously served as vice- presi­dent. 
CONAL BYRNE is teaching accounting at Villa-nova and taking graduate work for a master's degree-in Business Administration at Temple University. H e and bis wife have Hve children. 
1936—Reunion registrants: C. A. Belmont, F. J. Gaul, A. T. Scolaro, J. D. Sullivan, D. J. Vana­velo, Jr. 
1937 

Frank J. ReiUy, 1651 MetropoUtan Ave., New York City 62, N. Y. 
From FRANK REILLY: Barely enough *37ers—not counting those men ii> the order or employed by the University—were on hand to make up a game of doubles at handball during the annual Alumni Reunion, June 10*12. But, as they say in Brooklyn, wait 'til 1952. While waiting, let's take a look at some of the familiar faces: Father BOB LOCHNER, C.S.C., was the first member of the class of *37 I ran into. I saw Bob while at Mass in Dillon Hall chapel. Later, .in his room on Dillon's third floor, where he prefects. Bob and I recalled some of the earlier days. He also told me of attending NED JOYCE'S ordination as a C.S.C. a few days earlier. Ned, who is also a C.P.A., said his first Afass at his home in Spartan­buig, S. C., on Sunday, June 12. Notre Dame's president. Father JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., passed up the Reunion to speak at Ned's first Mass, 
CHOOSE YODH CLASS 

In response to numerous inquiries, especially from wartime students, the Alumni Office is glad to say here that: 
1.
 Any olumnua can. as far as the Alumni Association is concerned, belong to any doss he wonts to belong to. Therefore. 

2.
 If yon want to be transferred from one class group to onother one. merely drop a note to the Alumni Office. That's all that's necessary. 


The Alnani Office ordinarily clas­sifies a man as belonging to the year in iriudi he received Us first Notre Dome degree (or. in the cose of the noB-groduote. would have normally received it). But this rou­tine is by no means rigid and eon readily be chonged at the request of the individnoL 
which was a wonderful gesture on his part and a real tribute to Ned. 
JERRY BESANCENEY, the other '37er on hand for the big iveekend, hove into sight as Bob Loch­ner and I made our way up to Alumn) Hall where the "kids" from '44 and *39 cavorted under proud reunion caps of five and ten-year markings. Jerry, unchanged except for the addition of a few vidt placed pounds, is sales manager for a laundry ill his home town of Newark, O. >Vhtch brings to mind his fellow to%vnsman, FRANK FOX, now of the A.P., I bclte\'e; destination uncertain. 
Taking Jerry in tow, which is quite a feat, con­^dering he is a member of the air na\'al reser\'e, "wc sailed dead ahead for the Alumni offices in the Afain Building. There, squirrel gun unlimbercd and 
•com cob a'dangling, u-e spotted JOHN '*ZEKE** CACKLEY, also '37, now attached to the Foun­dation (No Wonder the Thing is Booming Along!) John allowed as how he was glad to see us and recalled seeing RICHARD RILEY of Westport and Youngstown, O. Speaking of postu-ar expansion, and who was? Zeke saj-s Dick is looking extremely well, which is high compliment to a veteran neu-spaper man. 
Getting back to "Zeke," who is comfortably set­tled in South Bend with his charming wife and three ^'oung kiddies, all of whom were very delight­ful hosts to me for Sunday dinner, John is doing a fine job at N.D. through his alumni club contact work on behalf of the Foundation and \ia "Notre Dame," the \'=ry handsome medium for interpreting Notre Dame to its actual and potential benefactors. "Zeke" (or John, in case you're confused) recalled for us a meeting with BOB DUCEY in Chicago, wherein the bo\*5 telcohoned their old side-kicks, JIM McHUGH and HANK WHIRRY, at some weird post-midnight hour. It costs less at that time, or the reception is better, I think "Zeke" said. Incidentally, "Zeke" lives about a block away from 
cur Prof. ED FISCHER, of the Journalism Depart­ment, who resides in a house once occupied by the ROCKNES. 
LARRY D.\NBOM was on hand Sunday for the ifonogram Club luncheon. He's much the same as when last seen by us in 1947,3nd is still associated wt h JERRY CLAEYS in the wholesale candy bus­iness. Jerry, JOHN BRASSELL. whom I didn't ha\-e an opportunity to see, and JERRY D.WEY, all of South Bend, \%:ere not around for the Reunion, I'm sorry to say. 
My post-Reunion excursion to Chicago included lunch with JOE DORGAN, he of the' national ad­\"ertising department of the Chicago "Daily News." T phoned ARCH GOTT and BOB McCLAIN to make it a foursome, but Arch was meeting his wife for lunch and Bob, at his office in the Merchandise Tklart, w*as about a sleeper jump away from my temporary* quarters in the LaSalle St. railroad sta­tion. Joe and Arch almost went to the Reunion, Joe told me, and probably would have if they had recei\-ed a little prodding on my part. Joe said he had received an announcement from the ED HOYT's of the birth of their litde girl earlier this spring. The Hoi-ts also hav-e a son. 
The week before going out to N.D. we had a \^it from Father CRONAN KELLY, O.F.M., bet­ter remembered as Bob Kelly of the class of 1937. Father Cronan is back from Rome for a brief \'aca­tion. He has been there for the past two and one-half years, and rettims sometime in .\ugust. He hasn't changed materially since the carefree dajv 
at N.D., except that, like most of us, he has turned 
a degree more serious and broadened spiritually. He 
makes a wonderful priest, and one of whom we can 
all be proud. 

Through the maze of unfamiliar faces at the 
basketball luncheon in New York, prior to the 
N.Y.U. game, quite a bit earlier this year, one face stood out: that of ED GANNON, whom I haven't seen in a long time. Ed works in Stamford, Conn., and while BOB WILKE used to mention seeing Ed, I think the basketball luncheon was the first occa­sion I had to see him in quite a while, maybe as far back as *37. Eddie is another of those lads who has changed little. He looked much the same as in those daj's ivhen we used to hax'e a catch on the lawn in front of Corby Hall. 
Speaking of Corby, if I may digress for a minute, while down at the Grotto in back of justly famous Corby during the Reunion, I bumped into CHUCK SWEENEY, who, although a >*ear behind us, was probably as well known to the '37 as to the *38 class. 
PINK CARROLL sent me a clipping recently on the election of AL SCHWARTZ as president of the Chamber of Commerce of Salina, Kans. Al has been on the board of the chamber oS and on since 1942, when he resigned to go into service. Pink sa>-s that Al is really doing a bang-up job and is a tremendous credit to Notre Dame for the work he is doing in Salina, not only in a business way, but also in a ciWc and religious way. Since sending me the clipping Pink, with his family, spent some time in Salina. 
JACK GILLESPIE of Merck & Co. telephoned the other day. We're supposed to ha\-e lundi together this week, but unfortunately not in time to register the proceedings in this issue of the ALUMNUS. 
Father JOE ENGLISH, M.NL, called last month. He's still stationed here in New York and worldng with Father Keller, who is doing such splendid work with the "Christopher Movement." Joe also \-isited Notre Dame recently, whence he sent us a postcard. 
JOHN McKENNA has been appointed head track coach at DePauI University in Chicago. 
1937—Reunion T£gtstrants: G. E. Besanceney, A. 
D. Cronin, Jr., F. J. Reilly. 
1938 
Harold A. Williams, 4323 Marble Hall Rd., Baltimore, Md. 
From H.AL WILLIAMS: 
We are saved from a shutout by two letters. 
First, Lieut. GEORGE A. SMITH, USN, of the Charleston Group, Atlantic Reserv'e Fleet, Sub Group Two. He writes: "Just received a letter from mother 

Buiiale hoc a dub meeting at the '39 leunion party. From the lelt: Joe Byan. Nonn Andenon. Carl Nagel, John Gilmour and Dan Sheedy. All except Gilmour (who ia bom Glen Beck. N. I.) are from Buffalo. Sheedy is president of the local Notre Dame club. 
with your JOHNNY FOX article in the ALUMNUS endoMd. I guess it has been many moons unce I dropped you a line. I believe I was in New Zea­land the last time. 
"Like Johnny, I'm still with the Navy, though believe I'U try to get out this summer. At present I'm with the abfive group doing sub work. Since I went to Harvard with the Navy, this is the first tinw I've been on the east coast. I'l-e been here about hve months. 
"Was most interested to hear that FENTON MEE is in the JAG's oflSce in Washington. Speaking of Pent, reminds me that his old buddy, MIKE CROWE, is getting ready to head for the West Coast lor a coaching job. As you know, Mike has a family ol some proportions now. I had hoped to get back to ND for the ten-year reunion but I found myself some 50 miles north of Midway Island at that time. (Long swim.) The last time I saw any of the old gang was in '45 when we all seemed clustered around Pearl Harbor. I recall that JIMMY MURPHY, JOHNNY O'CONNOR, and quite a few others from x-arious classes were there and we had a reunion in the basement of a church near the beach. CHARLIE BROWN was there, also. 
"Inasmuch as I'm a 'southern gentleman' now, I've been tn^ng to find out where ROGER SULLI­VAN is. I'd like to get in touch with the old rebel and refight the Civil War. . . . Can't think of any more dope except that I'm sick and tired of roaming the seas or roasting on some tropic island. Guess I've been on every island in the Pacific and elsewhere except off the coasts of India and South Africa. I'm ready to go back to Indiana to become a farmer." 
And now a brief note from CHARLIE CALLA­HAN who writes: "On Easter, April 17, JOE CAL­LAHAN, of New York, was married to Miss Mary Hall, also of New York, in the Log Chapel. Best man and lady were Mrs. G. and me." 
That's it. Just can't get any more information on or out of you boys. Now a special appeal to the wives of the class­mates: Girls, won't you write a line about your husbands, your children, etc? Please! 
JACK SCOTT was appointed director of the new­ly-created department of industrial relations and personnel at the "South Bend Tribune." John, his wife and two daughters reside at 902 Roosevelt St., South Bend. He was until Aug. 1 director of public relations for the school city of South Bend. 
Capt. JOHN R. KELLEY has recenUy been assigned to headquarters. New England ^lilitary District, at the Army Air Base, Boston. On active duty with the Organized Reserve Corps, he is a member of the Massachusetts Reserve Facilities Board. Captain and Mrs. Kelley with their daugh­ter, Sharon, live at 83 Marshall St., Medford, Mass. 
193S—Reunion realstrants: J. F. Anton, G. W. Keegan, J. P. Monteverde, C. A. Sweeney. 
1939 
\Tncent DcCoursey, 1917 Elizabeth, Kansas City 2, Kans. 
From VINCE DECOURSEY: If this is writtea a little more incoherently than usual, the fault must reside with BILL DOOLEY for malung the deadline so close to the Reunion. So blame hjm for the results—and the Terre Haute Brewing Co. 
The 120 or so who attended the reunion ought to be in position about this time to relate their experi­ences at the best 'ol get-together you ever dreamed about. To HUGHIE BURNS, trainer, after-dinner speaker extraordinary, and all around hard worker, goes the thanks of the class of '39 for a terriffic job. We heard more comment on our reunion and on the way the '39ers had things set up than on any other reunion party—e\er. One of the "old timers" compared it favorably with the '28 reunion a year ago—^and that was high praise. 
From beer to accommodations Hugliie did the job first dass all the way. And, incidentally, if your club wants a real speaker at one of your get-togethers. Bums is your man. 
No casualties were reported at either Friday night's shindig at the LaSalle (and assorted other points) or Saturday's day of recollection. Alumni Hall was 

never like this in our day on the campus. I'm refer­ring especially to the basement beer bar. 
The list of those present is printed elsewhere, so we'll just let you imagine what went on from read­ing the cast of characters. But several things deserve mention and are hereby reported (accuracy not by any means guaranteed). Class champ, reproductively spealdng, is beyond shadow of a doubt, JOE RYAN —the Buffalo whiz bang. By the time this is pub­lished Joe will be the father of seven. If anyone can beat that, get in touch with Joe. I thought Fd be among the leaders with my four boys, hut after talking to the first five men 1 never even mentioned the subject further. Four seems to be a common de­nominator, a few fives, quite a few threes and some twos and ones. 
To those of you who missed the tenth, talk to someone who was there and we'll just about guar­antee that you won't miss the fifteenth. The idea of a post-Commencement assembly is just the thing and ought to be followed from now on. Also, just as a bit of additional information, coming back from the Grotto after the Memorial Mass Sunflay, I passed a hunch of men and one woman, the men looking like about a class of '29 or so, and the comment of the woman is worth repeating. Said she, "I can see now that you ought to have come alone." So be it. 
Prizes for the distance-furtherest-away competition was not awarded but DAVE MESKILL, out of Bridgeport, FRED SISK, from Alamosa, Colo., ought to be considered among the prime contenders. 
So ends the column for this time, with a farewell note that "you ought to have been there." 
RALPH MAZAR, South Bend, has returned from a cruise on the U.S.S. Saipan. While in Montreal, Canada, he attended a dinner given by the Nor­wegian minister to Canada in the embassy. He was the guest of Miss Dulcie Ann Steinhardt, daughter of the United States' ambassador to Canada, Laur­ence Steinhardt and Mrs. Steinhardt. 
HARVEY FOSTER, Indianapolis FBI agent, cap­tured top honors in the pistol tournament sponsored by the St. Joseph Valley Rifle and Pistol association at Chief Wa-Ke-De lange near Bristol, Ind. Harvey was also in South Bend to attend the 27th annual assembly of Indiana police chiefs, where he explained the work of the FBI in aiding and arranging methods and equipment for municipal police agencies. 
Newsbits from '39 reunion notices: BOB ORTALE is a lawjer in Kingston, N. Y.; BEN BINKOWSKI is general manager at the Binkowski Sausage Co. in Chicago; ROD TROUSDALE wrote from 45 Lin­coln Blvd., PainesviUe, O.; PAUL KELLEY is with the Athey Products Corp., Chicago; MIKE MON­GOVEN is a truck manager for Chevrolet in Mus­kegon, Mich.; JOHN GRIFFIN is assistant vice-president of the Mercantile Mortgage Co. in St. Louis. 
TOM BULGER is with the Saving and Loan Asso­ciation in Indianapolis; BOB KVATSAK is a sales­man for Tom Brown Inc., builders and industral supplies, in Pittsburgh; VINCE DE COURSEY is wee-president of the DeCoursey Creamery Co. in Kansas City; ED CARROLL is assisunt to the superintendent, H. C. Frick Coke Co.; he lives in Uniontown, Pa. 
BERNIE SCOTT is an insurance adjuster with the General Adjustment Bureau, Inc., 901 S. Miami Aw., Miami, Fh.; MIKE CLOUSE is practicing medicine in Somerset, O.; CHET SADOWSKI is in the building business in Detroit; BILL RICKE, Houston, Texas, is representative for Plomb Tool Co., Los Angeles, CaUf.; JIM MOTSCHALL is sales manager and secretary of Motschall Co., Detroit, lithographers and printers; JOHN JAEGER is di­visional supervisor at Cudahy Bros. Co. in Milwau­kee. 
DICK C.\SEY is a pharmacist in Mason City, la.; JOHN PLANALP, of Clear Lake, la., is with the International Harvester Co. in Mason City; JOHN CAREY is in the insurance and real estate business in Indianapolis; JOHN SULLIVAN of Unirersity City, Mo., is associated with the law firm of Walter, Heckes, Walther and Barnard; MAURIE FRANK is practicing law in South Bend. 
BOB KIERNAN is with the Marine Corps at Corona Del Mar, Calif.; FRED SIMON is the owner of the Waco Broom and Mop Factory in Waco, Texas; EARL BROWN is head football coach at Alabama Polytechnic Institute, Auburn, Ala.; CHUCK SIDNER is collection officer for Tahnan Federal Savings and Loan Association of Chicago; BOB PIERCECCHI is administrative assistant to the executive accountant of the central office. Ford Motor Co. in Detroit. 
FATHER LOU McKEAN is sutioned in Reno, Ncv., at the Church of the Little Flower; CHUCK THEISEN is athletic director, football and baseball coach at Salem high school in Salem, N. J.; SAL TRENTACOSTE is connected with the Civil Service Department at the Brooklyn Navy Yards, Brooklyn, 
N. Y. 
LANDO HOWARD is a field representative for the Illinois Public Aid Commission, traveling the state doing public relations work; FATHER FRED DIGBY is studying at Catholic University, Washing­ton, D. C ; BOB TUSON, Drexel Hill, Pk., is the process superintendent of the National Sugar Refitt­ing Co., Pennsylvania sugar div.; ED MERRILL Is manager of the Industrial Engineering division for the Dodge Motor Corp., Mishawaka, Ind. JOHN MAURICE HAGERTY is a salesman in Washington C.H., Ohio; LARRY THOMPSON, in Memphis, couldn't make the reunion because his sister was married on June 11. 
JIM YOUNG is in the insurance business in Hous­ton, Texas; CARL RAUSCH is assistant to the director of Industrial Relations for Columbia Pictures Corp. in Hollywood, Calif.; FRANK MASTRO­FIETRO is a restaurateur at 196 Clark St. Auburn, 
N. Y. 
EMMETT CROWE is head coach of football and basketball at Roger Bacon high school in Cincinnati, O.; BERNIE LE ROY is athletic director at St. Mary's High School in Menasha, Wis.; JOSEPH H. HARRINGTON is chief of the Credit Department, Panama Trust Company, Panama City; he is the only member of the class who is in Panama. 
GEORGE MALOY has a general insurance agency in Clyde, N. Y.; JOHN FERENCE is an appUca­tion engineer in the Switchgear Div. of Westing­house in East Pittsburgh, Pa.; JOHN SULLIVAN is working for E. B. Badger and Sons Co. in Boston and enjoying life in the country where he resides in North Easton, Mass.; J. J. BERNARD is a banker at the Security-Fiist National Bank of Los Angeles. 
BILL MURRAY is a research chemist at the Jack­son Laboratory of the DuPont Co. in Wilmington, Del.; BYRON CASEY is practicing medicine in Grosse Point Farms, Mich.; PETE SANDROCK is a tool plant engineer for the Pacific Tel. and Tel. Co. in Portland, Ore.; AL KIEFER is a pharmacist in San Antonio, Fla.; BOB SCHIRF is a field engi­neer for the Layne-Northwest Co. in Milwaukee, Wis. 
GREG RICE is an actmmtaat with the Loots Mane and Co. o( New Yorii City awi lives at II Statioa Plaza, Great Neck, N. Y.; BOB WILSON is >• executive trainee witis the State Finance Coep. ia Sooth Bod; FRANK GARTLAND lives ia liana Ind., and is the &ther of foor ijiildica; TOU HcINTYRE is sopeivisar at the Diesel FbMer (Chi­cago ifist.) Pere-Uarquette, C. and O. R. R.; JOE MCDONALD bom fnmdtate, R. I. is woridag fer his father who is in the dn« store bosiaess; Joe sends us the news that little JOE SULLIVAN had a new heir. 
GEORGE FALLE R is ia business with H. C FaDer and Sons, fnrnitore dealers in Fryfaoig, fo.; JIM ROCAP is aa attorney in Indiaaapolis, lad.; 
R. J. ANTON is maoager of salei persoaad ibrBot­point. Inc., ia Chiogo; PAUL RICE is ia the ail business working for George C. Peterson Co., Chi­cago; R. J. GALLAGHER is dty engineer of Do­buque, la.; FRED SISK is an attorney in Las Ani­mas, Colo.; JOHN HULOERIG is an industrial engineer in Syracuse, N. Y. 
ANDY WILSON is connected with the Public Rebtions Dept.; Nasb-Kdvinator Corp., Detroit, Mich.; STIRUNG MORTIMER is an attorney and chairman of the Business Law Dept., Ctdlege of Cammeroe at DeRml University ia Chicago; LOYD WORLEY is with the Foundation OU Co., Tuba, Okla.; BILL MEYERS is with the law offices of McCarthy and McCarthy, 605 Elgin Tower, E^ii^ m.; WALLY GEREND is a purchasing agent for the 
U. S. Air Force at Wright Field in Dayton, O.; JOHN GUTOWSKI is the father of three hoyi, 5^2, 3 and 4 months and got caps for each of them; JOE SULLIVAN of New Bedford, Mass. is a sales­man for the West Disinfecting Co. 
1939—Jbuioa repstranis: W. F. Ahem, Jr., 
N. I. Anderson, R. J. Anton, T. N. Armd, V. V. Bellino, B. F. Binkowski, R. H. Bteen, P. Breiman, 
T. R. Bulger, H. M. BunKB, H. L. Boms, R. E. Carmody, E. J. Carroll, R. D. Casey, H. P. Ooose, 
D. F. Curiey, Jr., J. A. Davis, V. W. DeGootsey, 
A. G. Denten, H. J. Detzer, Jr., J. H. Devins, 
E. J. Disser, V. E. DoUard, P. M. Dooovaa, P. E. DuCharme, J. R. Dufiy, G. M. Faller, A. F. Fdts, 
B. J. Feeney, F. P. Fransioli, T. P. Frericks, J. C. Gallagher, R. J. Galla^ier, R. J. Garab, F. X. Gartland, Jr., W. J. Gerend, J. V. Gifanoor, Jr., 
J. J. Green, J. J. Cfiffia, Jr., J. Z. Gotowski, L. 
E. Hall, J. £. Hannaa, D. W. Harris, a B. Hayes, J. J. Hiegd, E. J. Hughes, J. F. Jaeger, 
H. F. Johantgea, W. H. Johnson, Jr., R. C. Kaez­marek, R. A. Kane, H. J. Kartheiser, P. E.' Kdl, 
P. K. KeDey, T. J. King, Rev. 1. F. Klister, E. 
Heunion Chairmon Hugh Bums gathers his '39 gang aremid him. h thofronttvm, &<MB the IcH: Km MotschaU, Henry lohantgen. Mario Tonelli. tody ^Hlaen and BiU Canaoa. Ju the second row: John Wessels. Hughi* Bums, Mik* Oooso. yiaem DoUard. Pool Ueo, Da»o Harris. Joe Moorman and AI Felts. 
40 

E. Kochanowsid, R. J. Kratsak, L. J. Lacroix, H. 
L. Lardie, M. F. Leahy, J. B. LcwU, W. P. Long, 
J. P, L>-naugh, J. C. McArdle, E. G. McDcrmott, 
J. E. McDcrmott, J. L. McDonald, J. J. Mc­Guire, M. J. McGuire. T. E. McIntjTC, W. P. McVay, T. A. Mahcr, D. T. Mcsldll, \V. T. Meyers, 
G. J. Milford, M. J. Mitchell, J. B. Moorman, Jr., 
J. S. Mortimer, J. N. MoBchall, J. P. Mulderig, 
J. J. Murphy, C. J. Nagel, S. M. O'Mcara, G. XL O'Neil, Jr., R. M. Ortale, F. XL Payne, Jr., F. S. Pittman, J. F. Planalp, L. S. Read. Jr., C. S. Reddy, J. G. Rice, P. H. Rice, W. H. Ricke, 
J. E. Rocap, S. J. Roche, J. G. Rolondo, D. J. Ryan, J. F. Ryan, C. P. Sadoireki, R. F. Schramm, 
H. J. Schroeder, Jr., D. C. Sheedy. F. E. Sisk, 
L. M. Somers, J. E. SuUiran. Jr., T. J Sulliran, Jr., M. G. Tonelli, R. L. Trousdale. J. H. Weber, 
J. E. Wcssels, J. B. Wheeler, Jr.. W. P. White, Jr., 
A. F. Wilson, R. F. Wibon, E. M Zerbc 
1940 

Robert G. Sanford 1103 E. Kensington Blvd., Shorcwood, Wis. 
According to -Arch Ward of the Chicago Tribune, "Babe Pinclli, National league umpire, temporarily has abandoned his plans to organize a baseball nine composed of his own grandsons. . . . The first four children of Dr. and Mrs. ROY PIXELLI were bo>-s, but the most recent arrix-al is Catherine .Ann. who has taken full charge of all Pinelli family plans, according to Grandpappy Babe. . . ." 
1940—Rrunion rcsistrants: R. AV. Burke. \\\ J. 
Cannon, J. C. Daner, J. G. Else. T. J. McKenna, 
J. G. Poulin, R. J. Schultz, R. E. Sulli\-an. R. E. Sweeny, C. O. Weilbacher. 
1941 
John W. Patterson, Jr., 5530 Darlington Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 

JOHN GAFFHER is an admitted C.P.A. His home is £\'ans\'ille, Ind. 
JIM LONG is with the FBI in Detroit and has two young sons, James Brady and George Felix. 
ED FENLON is associated with the James L. Dixon and Co., real estate broker, 1022 Seventeenth Street, NW, Washington, D. C. 
REV. WILLI.AM M. DUGAN, ordained to the priesthood May 21 in Blessed Sacrament Cathedral, Detroit, offered his First Solemn High Mass on May 26, St. Philip's Churcli, Battle Creek, ^!ich. 
1941—Reunion registrants: L. C. Maje\%-ski, J. 
J. O'Dowd, C. G. Oliveros, Jr., W. J. Sj-ring, J. 
R. Tinny. 
1942 

William E. Scanlan, Pullman Trust & Saving Bank, 400 E. 111th St., Chicago 28, III. 
From SCOOP SCANLAX: Just talked to TOM POWERS, holding down the fort at the ^'Chicago Tribune'' and he came up \rith a newsy report: Tom attended the Old Timers spring game at Notre Dame and was in the pressbox \-isiting ART H.\LEY and CH.\RLIE McMAHOX of Tulsa. Charlie and another fellow from Oklahoma chartered a plane for the jaunt to X.D. .And they had an eagle eye out for Southern Methodist game tick­ets, which were already scarce. I understand Charlie and his brother are the big wheels in an oil firm there and Charlie had a real Father's Day this year—he has four children. Tom also \Tsited RAY DONOV.AX and PAUL NEVILLE. They called JOE LANE collect in Xew York and JOE HR.ACHOVEC in Rapid City, S. D. Mso tried to called FRANK PEREZ at San Fran­cisco, without success. 
ARCH W.ARD's aide also \Tstted Xew York awhile back—for Brother JOHX's wedding to Rita Gannon a t St. Jean Baptlste Church in Manhattan. Rev. JOSEPH L. POWERS, C.S.C., another brother, per­formed the ceremony. Tom was best man. .Also at the wedding were Joe Lane, still a ^VaIl St. law\-er. FR.ANK LAVELLE and JB t aA\\XEY. 
Rev. John Beardon, OJ*., '44, brother ol Tom, '36, and Scott, '38, wa s ordcdned in Chicago on June 7 and sang his first sol­emn Mass in Sioux Falls, S. D., on June 12. 
In recent weeks, Tom also has gotten together with TO M X.ASH, who combines golf and law; DICK McHUGH, who was defeated in the race for sheriff in "The Wake of the Xews" colimin (thanks to D.WE (Mr. Polo) COXDOX, and FR.-\XK K.AISER of Chatsworth, HI. Condon, by the way, is now covering polo for the **Chi Trib." 
PAUL XEVJLLE is taking bows these days as the new sports ed of the "South Bend Tribune.'* Paul had been chief political writer for the "Trib." He succeeds the late Jim Costin, known to Xotre Dame fans the worid about. And CHARLIE C.\L­L.AHAX, '38, in charge of sports publicity at X.D., has replaced Costin as sportscaster for "Our Sun­day Visitor." 
A few weeks ago the "Beverly RcWe^**," suburban paper in one of Chicago*s classiest neighborhoods, carried a full page blast about the arri\-al of ART POPE. Art and a fellow named Gordon Yeazel have taken over dbtributorship for the St. Charles Kit­chens, custom built of steel, for everything' south of 51st street in Chicago—and that covers a whale of a lot of territory-. Art is located at 1913 W, 103rd St.—so if you're ever out south, look him up. He's married and father of two boys. 
\VhiIe attending some of the sessions of a sales clinic at the LaSalle Hotel some weeks back, I zan into EMMETT XECAS, one-time manager, who is nox%- Territorial Manager for Rolfs, the leather goods firm. Emmett headquarters in West Bend, Wis. 
It was in late May that JOHN DINGES and Clare May Wright were married at St. Sabina's church in Chicago. I was there and now the Dinges are liring at 235 Park Drive, Boston. 
Before we leave ART POPE, I recall he heard from a few of the fellovrt: GEORGE SCHIEWE is selling Kelvinator refrigerators; D.ANNY McNA-M.-\R.\ is a lawyer for the Chicago Transit Author­ity- and passed the bar after some work at DePaul U., and VIXCE D.-MGLER was in town for a visit from New York. Vint^ is married and has two children. And RED LOXERG.AN dropped into the bank after a tour east to make a\'ailable his famous X.D. shirts for tiny tots. 
In May STEVE GRALIKER postcarded from St, Louis: **Hello. .\m writing from a St. Louis hosnital in which I was operat-d on for plastic sur­gical repair. ED M,-\XGELSDORF saw me to the portal one day." Steve's address: 1537 W. Macon Decattu", HI. He wants to hear from some of the boys. 
Don't forget: 
IF IT'S XEWS, WRITE SCOOP. 
"The Candlestick Maker", a play written by JOHN T. KELLEY, was to be produced by the Belfry Players in W*illiams Bay, Wis., July 21-30. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
John Is with the Sheldon Claire Co. in Chicago 
where he is doing frcc-Iancc raido writing. He and 
his wife have a daughter. 
After receiving his LL.B. from the Uni\*ersity of 
Buffalo, VIC CORCORAN informed us of his 
change of address to 165 Afaln Street, Penn Yan, 
N. Y. Vic was married to Miss Merrill Holmes in Rochester, N. Y. 
1942—Reunion Tcgistrants: M. J. Carr, P. C. Decry, F. J. Payne, H. P. Schrenker. 
1943 
John L. Wiggins, 2108 W. Fullerton Ave, Chicago 47, III. 
From JACK WIGGINS: It seems that everyone has headed for \'acation enjoyment, and as a result ne%%'s is exceptionally scarce. We received an invitation to ED RONEY's marriage to Miss Eleanor Margaret Couzens on June 23 in the Cathedral of the Most Blessed Saaramcnt, Detroit. It occurred to us at the time we read Ed's in\-itation that we would make an appeal to ail aspiring benedicts to put an invitation in the mails marked for the attention of your class secre­tary. Thus, readers of the class column wouldn't have to ferret the news fom the alphabetized list­ing under "Marriages" elsewhere in the ALUMNUS. By the same token, an announcement of the birth of a child would make "easier" reading. 
RAY SCHOONHOVEN is reported as being en­gaged by labor law s[}ccialists in Chicago. Ray makes the long haul from Aurora daily. J.\CK GILLI-GAN's wife presented him with a son, their second, in mid-May. 
Please note the new mailing address above. This came as the result of your reporter being transferred to the Chicago office to continue the sale of chemi­cals with the Windy City as a base. This transfer necessitated our missing the Reunion weekend at Notre Dame in June. BILL MIDDENTKJRF was at the Reunion and reported that he had talked with BILL WARNICK, LEO LEWIS, and FRANK KAISER. 
1943—Reunion registrants: F. W. Kaiser, L. J. Leu-is, J. R. MiUiman, T. W. Perry, W. J. Wamick. 
1944 
William F. Talbot 
300 Main St., White Plains, N. Y. 
From BILL TALBOT: 
The long-awaited, five-year class reunion started quietly besides a beer tub in the basement of Alumni Hall on Friday, June 10. In a matter of hoiurs the affair broke into a celebration of such ^-im, \-igor, and V. O. that the sounds are probably to this day still echoing up and down the empty halls. It was really a grand w-eekend, and it left enough good memories in its wake to last for another long five years. 
The '44ers wore white frosh caps w-ith green numerals, and held forth in Alumni Hall w-ith the class of '39. It was in the cool basement of Alumni that the indefatigable JIM CUNNINGHAM, chair­man of the event, had arranged to install a tub with an infinite capacity for cans of beer. 
First person around Friday was JOHX MORRI­SON, our Freshman president, who tarried in the caf. Then foUowed JACK DOYLE and TOM BRE­MER, early arri\als from Cleveland, who lost no time in beading for the cellar. Xot far behind was DOM BOETTO who bunked right around the corner from HERB CLARK and JOHN V.AN BENTON. The latter were well remembered for their collabora­tion in the production of ED CASHMAN'S cam­pus musical. 
Similarly reunited were FLOYD VINCENT and ELXIER SILHA, and JACK THORNTON and SE­GERSON, who were the life of quite a few parties o\*er the w-eekend. BIL MIDDENDORF arrived a litde late but with good neu-s: he sealed a business deal o\*er the weekend. In another room, Dr. J. McSWEENEY, now a bona fide practioneer, teamed with DICK AHEARN to resume Uieir old arguments. 
Down the main corridor in 226 were VINCE DUNCAN and VIC KIMMEL who had a sortie with JOHN O'HARA re the V-1 na\al math class under FATHER GASSENSMITH. There wasn't a 

tear shed. Nearby in 227 \t-as CHARLIE PICK­HARDT who bad a few New Haven Railroad worries on his mind. Charlie says it is nice work and he really enjoys it. 
Jim Cunningham made excellent arrangements for a cJass banquet in Vetville Center for Friday night. The Center was colorfully decorated, with adequate tables and chairs all around, and with one catered head table that was continually laden with fine foods. Several of the local class members managed to at' tend the class frolic, among them DON BIRREN, who lives in Vetville while completing bis work in sculpturing; and JACK O'CONNELL, formerly of Bridgeport, who was voted the most prolific member of the class of '44. Jack and Ginny at Reunion time had four and a half children; and in recognition thereof Jack's classmates presented him with a ccr* tificate entitling him to a year's free diaper supply. £ver>'one congratulated Jack and told him to keep up the good work. 
The class party knocked off early—shortly after eleven—whereupon many adjourned to South Bend to continue the celebration. 
TOM ROLFS led the aggregation into chapel the next morning; and then, after a little breakfast (or after a huge breakfast, as in the case of DICK MURPHY), the gang adjourned to Badin Bog to entertain any and all comers in a slam-bang soft­ball game. Our opponents, the class of '39, lost by default when they could muster no players to take the field. (In fairness to Chairman BURNS, how­ever, it must be reported that '39 did have two spectators present). 
Undaunted, the '44ers took to the field against the cbss of '34, who had just beaten the class of '29. BOB FAUGHT engineered the whole deal, and played a sterling, errorless game at first base. The sparkplug of the outfield was ORLANDO "GA­ZELLE" BONICELLI who loped all over left and center field, mcdung phenomenal catches. Contribut­ing their share were JOE GALLAGHER in right field; JIM CONSTANTIN in the Wcinity of center field; and DICK MURPHY, player-at-large. The in­field had MILT FLYKE at the keystone position, and three really fine hitters: JIM PLATT, 3b; TOM DUFFY, 2b; and JOHN BORKOWSKI, c Your correspondent filled in the tenth position and was responsible for a triple error on one play. Still undaunted by such playing in the first inning, the class of '44 went on from there to play shut-out ball, and garner 12 hits and 7 runs against a team that fielded as many as 23 men at one time. Final score: 7 to 2. 
Saturday afternoon was filled with activity. While JIM BRENNAN and TED SMITH spent the after­noon looking for each other, BILL SNYDER was taking the golf course apart with a shattering 36 on top of a wobbly 45. At the last report, his 81 was low for the class. Bill roomed with BILL LAR­SON, another Indianopolis man, who managed to get up for the weekend. High man on the totem pole was TOM BREMER whose 136 on the links 'won him three golf balls and a book on how to pbiy golf. HARRY LAVERY ran him a close second with 71 strokes on nine holes. Though he didn't win a prize, BRUNETTI was far and away the best dressed and equipped player on the course, and he didn't hesitate once to loan his dubs to anyone who 
needed them. 
While the golfers were drinking free beer in the golf course tool shed, JIM MAHONEY and room­mate PAUL ARENS, together with a pair of Ken­tuckians, BERNIE BOWLING and OTTO AHLETI, were keeping the beer cans cool in Alumni base­ment. Shortly afterwards, Bowling and Mahoney adjourned to a *39er's room where they pressed and cleaned the upperclassmen. '39 just couldn't win a thing that day. 
ED DRINKARD was married at noon Saturday in Sacred Heart Church, but he came and left so quickly that very few got a look at him and his 
bride. 
Saturday night brought forth a real celebration, beginning with the banquet in the Dining Hall. The banquet is covered elsewhere in this edition, but we have to stick in here the note that every class sang a song and that ours, chosen somehow spontaneously, was "The Beer Barrel Polka." After the salad, FRANK ENGLISH went out to buy a pack of ciga­rettes and missed out on the rest of the courses. Some time between dessert and the awarding of the golf prizes, EARL ENGLERT sneaked off and re­turned amid general tumult and acclaim with two cases of beer and two bottles of Kentucky corn squeezings. 
Following the banquet (served in pre-^var style, incidentally), the class dispersed to new haunts 
1944 had closed up its party in the Vet­ville Rec Hall by the time our photogra­phers reached there on Friday night, June 
10. But through the alertness of Secretary Talbot the *44 group above was perma­nently recorded in the coiurse of the soft­ball game on Saturday morning. (1944 soys that 1944 won the game). The picture above includes Constantin, Talbot, Galla­gher, Borkowsld, Duffy, Flyke, Piatt, Boni­celli, Faught and Murphy. 
The pictiure below shows Bob Faught with the war club. The rear man is not identified. 
around South Bend. ED GALLAGHER gathered a group for a table at the Oliver, and GRIF ALLEN and his wife ret(;ncd over a second table closer to the bar. CREIGHTON MILLER drew quite a crowd at the bar with a flock of funny stories. Both Creighton and JOHN HENNEBERGER were sport­ing brand new Lincoln Cosmopolitans, which are reputed to do 70-odd in first. You can check with JOHN HOMAX on that, because he and Henne­bsrger hit all the spots together that night. 
BOB FISHER and D.AVE RONEY were popular, hitting several places on their way. So was BILL O'CONNOR, who runs a bar of his own in upper New York. Bill and JOE GALLAGHER made a real team of it again. JOE PONS, the other part of the triumvirate, had to leave early Friday in order to keep a special appointment in Chicago. 
BOB THUMM did yeoman ser\ice for a lot of fellows, including CLEM CONSTANTINE and HARRY LAVERY. Bob was uncomplaining, though he spent the night chaufTering groups around the city. 
Some quit early Saturday night, but BEN MAM­MINA and TOM HALLIGAN were going strong after most had given up. When last seen at 3:50 a. 
m. they w*ere playing gin rummy by candlelight. Just down the hall from them, FRANK ENGLISH and JACK O'NEILL were generous hosts. Frank's nylon drawers, incidentally, came in for a lot of ribbing. 
Sunday morning brought the men out for a me­morial Mass in Sacred Heart Church. TOM SHELL­WORTH, connected with advertising for Frigiilaire in Dayton, was one of the lads to hit the rail for his old buddies. ED FREDERICKS and JACK COL­LINS, now a research metallurgist, also made "^A^i and a visit to the Grotto afterwards. 
From there the gai^ advanced on the caf for a long breakfast. As BOB DUFFY foimd out, it was a sure place to meet anyone you may have missed. Shortly afterwards the Retmion unofficially ended, as the fellows started packing their gear and straggl­ing home. FRANK VIGNOLA, who showed up in a handsome new-style shirt, began the homeward trek a little after noon. It had been a grand and glorious time, and it left a lot of happy thoughts. 
As a special report for those who couldn't make the Reunion, it ought to be added that the Huddle has been renovated, expanded to include the old Western Umon office, and that it is now quite a classy joint; and that there is a prominent sign dis­played all over the campus saying in effect that there is a daily late Mass for sleepy-heads. It begins at 
7:20 a. m., an unholy hour jf there ever was one. 
A final communique from our retiring and very generous dass secretarr, JOHN LYNCH, relays the news that CHARLIE KOEGLER married Lillian Phyllis Wass on June 23, in Corpus Christi Church, Mineola, N. Y. He further reports that MARK G. McGRATH, C.S.C, was ord^ned to the Holy Priesthood in Panama City, Panama, on June 11. Father Mark, who ts remembered for his Catholic Action work on the campus and for his backstroke victory in the swimming meet in St. Joe*s Lake, writes: ''Give my best to all the boys and a promise of many remembrances in my Masses." 
Father JOHN REARDON, O.P., also sends word through John, "in the hope that those whom I am unable to personally contact will not think that I have forgotten them." Father John was ordained on June 7 at St. Pius Church, Chic^o, and sang his first Solemn Mass the following day in Sioux Falls, 
S. D. Father John reports that be hears occasionally from JI^f BURKE, LARRY GOEBELER, and VINCE DUNCAN, and then he adds that another Notre Dame man was ordained with him. ''He is Brother RICHARD (EDMUND) BUTLER. O.P., ex-42. Also Brother KEVIN (DAVE) O'ROURKE. O.P., ex-48 or '49, is studying in the house; and Brother EDMUND (JOE) BIDWILL, O.P., is a simple novice. 
"A member of my brother's dass. Father WIL­LIAM B. MAHONEY, O.P., *38, returned from a two-year stay in Rome last fall, and is teaching natural philosophy to the younger students here. Father JAMES R. CO^fEAU, O.P., '36, is teaching at Dominican College in New Orleans, and Father FRANCIS L. B. CUNNINGHAM, O.P., '39, is teaching at Xavier College in Chicago." 
Father John regrets that he couldn't make the Reunion, but he offers the following promise instead: "The first opportunity I have after ordination, I will say a K^ss for those of the class who lost their li\-es, and for the intentions of the dass in general." He asks that his old friends "slip in a prayer for him" when they get a chance. 
Capt. JAMES P. BIRDER, son of Prof. CECIL E. BIRDER, '14, was reburied &fay 14 in St. Paul, Minn. Captain Birder was killed Feb. 7, 1945, while serving with the 82nd airborne division. He iKUtid> pated with the paratroopers in II months of combat and saw action in Naples, Rome, Pisa, and southern France. He was with Lieut. Gen. George S- I^t-ton's Third army in Belgium. 
JIM O'DEA, Demf)crat, is the newest Notre Dame man in Congress. At a special spring election in the Lowell, Mass., area he was named to succeed the late James J. Bruin as representative. Jim, a gradu­ate of the Marines. Two Jima and Harvard Law School, has two children. The ALUMNUS, which has just this minute heard of Jim's election, will gather some more information about him for the next issue. Paging Secretary TALBOT! 
From JIM CUNNINGHAM: Brother RO^fAN WITOWSKI couldn't make the Reunion but sent words of greeting for all his old Carroll HaU friends. . . . DAN DOWNEY and his brother, JIM, have a real estate office in West Palm Beach, Fla. . . . TOM J. McCARTY is now Brother M. Malachy, O.C.S.O. .. . He is a choir brother studying for the priesthood in the Trappist Order. . . . JOHN KILBRIDE is with the Safety Emery Wheel Co. in Bri(^eport, Conn.. . . , The JOHN LYNCHS are waiting for an August baby. . . . JOHNNY MORRISON, his wife and baby have just moved into VetviUe. . . . HARRY LAVERY, Chic^o lawyer, is plugging hard to reform some of the abuses in the Chicago court system. .. . 
The foUomng '44 men registered somewhere on the campus over the Reunion weekend: 
R. H. A'Hearn, G. A. Alexander, R. G. Allen, 
C. M. Andres, J. P. Atens, Jr., M. J. Bajorek, 
R. F. Benning, D. H. Birren, D. F. Boetto, O. A. Bonicelli, J. J. Borkowski, Jr., B. F. Bowling, T. F. Bremer, J. M. Brennan, B. £. Brunetti, J. £. Chris­ten, Jr., H. F. Clark, Jr., J. F. Croaker, Jr., 
J. A. Coletnan, J. F. Collins, J. XI. Constantin, C. £. Contantine, J. V. Cunningham, Jr.. H. C. Dewes, J. F. Dillon. W. J. Dinnen, J. T. H. Doyle, 
E. V. Drinkard. R. T. Duffy, T. L. Duffy. V. J. Duncan, W. J. Eaton, E. R. Englert. F. £. English, 
R. E. Faught, T. A. Ferrari R. G. Fisher, M. J. Flyke, E. M. Fredericks, £. R. Gallagher, J. V. Gallagher, Jr., R. J. Gantner, \V. H. Grafe, Jr., 
T. F. Halligan, J. A. Hcnnebergcr, J. J. Homan, 
H. J. Johnson, J. J. Kelly, Jr., J. L. Kilbride, V. 
M. Kimmel, Jr., O. P. Lanon, Jr., H. D. Laver>% 
J. E. McSweeney, J. J. Mahoney, J. J. Malone, 
B. J. Mammina, O. J. Mileti, Jr., C. £. Miller, 
J. J. Morrison, R. G. Murphy, J. M. Murray, P. 
F. Nemeth, J. G. O'Connell. Jr., W. C. O'Connor, 
J. F. O'Hara, E. J. O'Neil, J. J. O'Neill, C. L. Pickhardt, R. J. Piatt, Jr., J. P. Pons, J. J. Prince, Jr., A. N. Renze, Jr., T. J. Rolfs, A. A. Romeo, 
D. T. Roney, R- \V. Schram, J. P. Segerson, Jr., 
T. R. Shellworth, E. D. Silha, T. F. Smith, W, T. Sn>-der, E. S. Sochalski, E. C. Steincr, Jr., W. F. Talbot, J. F. Thornton, J. R. Thumm, D. J. Tom­dk, P. F. Um-eisagt, J. J. Van Benton, F. J. Vignola, F. J. Vincent, R. S. Witte, W. A. Wu-ko\its. 
1945 
James W. Schaeffer, 7516 N. Hoyne, Chicago, 111. 

TEX PEQUIGNEY is teaching English at the Rice Institute in Houston, Texas. He \vas a visitor at Notre Dame recently. 
19\5—Reunion registrant: W. J. McGah. 
JkLVN OF THE YE.\R 
JACK RUMBACH, '45, v.-zs chosen the "outstanding young man of the year" by the Junior Chamber of Commerce Distinguished Ser\ice .A**-ard Committee in Jasper, Ind. The 25->'ear old recipient of the award re-ccix^d it because of "the substantial contribu­tion he has made to the welfare of his com­munity". A past ad\'isor of the Senior Boy Scouts he was instrumental in the formation of the new Jaycee organization in Jasper and is a member of its board of directors. An organizer of the Little Theatre Group, a non­profit organization, he is its chairman-elect. 
Since October of 1946, when the "Jasper Herald** went to a daily. Jack has ser\'ed as managing editor of the paper, now known as the "Dubois County Daily Herald." 
1946 
John K. Stewart, Nolan Motor Co., Garden City, Kans. 
From J.\CK STEWART (on June 3): 

CH.\R1.I£ ClAUSS is still secretan-treasurer of his father^s insurance company in Buffalo. From last reports, JIM BURNS was trying to peddle a play on Broadway. J.ACK McCOURT, wife and young daughter were last known to be in Buffalo with Clauss on i-acation. W.\RREX FRONRATH is with Wyandotte Steel of Detroit. CHARLES (Rip) DeGALLON is working for a Cadillac agency in Detroit. 
Since my orders to report to active duty were cancelled I have neglected to resume some of the correspondence I had had with LEE SHIPP, in Dallas, and with J.\CK TEXGE, St. Louis. JIM LARRICK ad\^ d me from Albuquerque that his back «-as broken and that he had to quit teaching English in a school located somewhere near the Grand Canyon. He is a one-man Chamber of Com-
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Dr. Robert A. Nelson. Jr. 

A medical discover)' regarded by special­ists as highly significant is credited to 26­year-old DR. ROBERT A. NELSON, JR., '44, a Johns Hopkins University instructor who not long ago was bending his efforts toward becoming a chemist, not a doctor. 
Tall, earnest Dr. Nelson completed two years of Notre Dame's chemistry course before he suddenly decided to switch to pre-med. 
On April 7, only two years after being graduated from Cornell Medical School, he stirred a crowd of gray-haired colleagues in Washington, D. C, with the announcement of his discovery of what appears to be a natural antibody against syphilis in human blood, and of a new test for syphilis which may revolutionize clinical procedures. 
Dr. Nelson's expectations go even further 
— he hopes soon to see the way toward developing the world's first anti-syphilis vaccine, so that the dread venereal disease can be conquered in the same manner as smallpox, diphtheria and other similar dis­eases. 
The Nelson test, it is believed, is fool­proof, whereas the Wasserman test often re­sults in a positive reaction, which indicates a patient has syphilis when, in reality, he may have malaria, leprosy or even measles, chickenpox or no infection at all. 
The test is based on the antibodies found in victims of s>-philis. In tests made so far at Johns Hopkins, the antibodies have been a certain indication of the disease being present. 
Just what the new-found anti-bodies actu­ally are, even Dr. Nelson admits he doesn't know. They are not visible under a micro­scope. But the spirochetes become com­pletely immobile and noninfectious in a mat­ter of hours when they are exposed to syphilitic blood scnmi. That is Dr. Nel­son's test. 
Dr. Nelson headed a research team at The Noire Dame Alumnus 
merce for the perhaps-beautiful but certainly weath­er-beaten terrain of New Mexico. 
I am still with, or rather again, with this Chevro­let-CadiUac-Oldsmobile agency acting as a sort of right-hand man to the president, my father-in-law. The process b slow, but I feel that I am becoming acdimated to the ways of the Sun-flower State— anthem heard daily in any 3.2 Kansas bistro. 
Yotur suggestion that a roster be delivered to me is excellent. As well as gather news for the Alumni I may well resume contact with some of the fellows. 
It is unpleasantly doubtful that I will be able to get up to Notre Dame for the reunion. A number of dealer's meetings arc scheduled in the near future. 
That's about it for now. 
1947 
Joseph D. Usina, 219 S. Scott St., South cBnd, Ind. 

From J. D. USINA: From Dr. TOM SNYDER, 206 West .\venue, East Syracuse, N. Y.: "Thb is to inform you that I have just graduated from the S>'racuse University College of Medicine. My next step is internship at the Grasslands Hospital in Valhalla, N. Y. (the Westchester County Hospital), beginning July 1. 
"By the way, JACK SULLIVAN, ex-47, also grad­uated with me. He is to intern at the Bishop de Goesbriand Hospital in Burlington, Vt. We hope sbme our N.D. friends will note our new addresses and drop us a line." Congratulations, Tom and 
Jack. 

We've also learned that WARREN G. KRAMER has been awarded his degree of Doctor of ^fedicine from the University of Southern California School of Medicine. He reports on July 1 to the U. S. Naval Hospital, Long Beach, Calif., for duties as intern. 
Had a line the other day from JOE DAVIS, 4514 Bowser in Dallas, Texas, and he reports enthusiasm b running high for the Notre Dame- S.M.U. series in the fall. 
When I was down in St. Augustine, Fla., for my i-acation during the past few weeks, I saw quite a bit of the N.D. alumni in that area. CHARLES BENNETT, WADE NODA and NED FISHAVICK reported on the various activities of the newly or­gamzed North Florida club which made considerable progress in the past year. The Notre Dame Glee Club gave a performance in St. Augustine under the sponsorship of First Florida Council 611, Knights of Columbus, and the town is still talking about the excellent program. 
Around South Bend I see DON CLAEYS, BILL KLEM and BOB SNEE regularly. Got quite a nice bit of information from JACK ^1ILES, who is the' ''South Bend Tribune's" corespondent in St. Joseph and Benton Harbor, Mich. Here it is: 
". . . The recent Elks all-sports banquet here took on a greenish hue with the presence thereat of several alumni. Leading the parade ^v'as JOHNNY LUJACK, *48. . , . John literally stole the show, mijung his talk with sharp humor and serious adxice to almost 100 athletes in attendance. Following his formal address, John traded quips with Fat Harder, fullback of the Chicago Cardinals, on the relative merits of the Cards and the Bears, and of the Irish and the Wisconsin Badgers. All in all. Johnny makes a wonderful represcntatiw for Notre Dame. .. . I heard sex^ral d>-ed-in-the-wooI Michigan men mar­\-eling at his poise and modesty. BiRgest laugh came when a >-oungster asked Johnny. '*Don*t you think Michigan was a lot better than Notre Dame?" The intrenid Lujack ga\-e the best answer I've ever heard—^"it depends on which team you rooted for." He went on to add that you couldn't tell by a single game, since one team may have an off day. 
"Displaying old school lovaltv for Johnnv were several alumni headed by CHET McGR.\TH, '12, 
Johns Hopkins under the supervision of Dr. Thomas B. Turner, professor of bacteriolog)* and a pioneer in venereal research. 
The young doctor is married to a former nurse at the University and is the father of a six-month-old daughter. 

who this year steered his St. Joseph Catholic High School Ponies to the state Class D high school basketball crown. Chet was presented with a three­and-a-half foot trophy by the Elks, and he had all he could do to hold on to it. 
^'Sharing the tributes with his dsd was one of our classmates. Assistant Coach DON McGRATH, '47, who helped pilot the team through the tourney when Chet's health threatened to fail. 
"My companion at the dinner was GEORGE LYNCH, *36, now a successful attorney in Benton Harbor and vice-president of the Berrien County Bar Association. Completing the Notre Dame lineup was BEN MAMIlUNA, '43, who is in business with his father in Benton Harbor, and CHARLES £. SPANGENBURG, '32, first manager of the Notre Dame Stadium and former basketball manager. MAURICE A. WEBER, ex-25, a St. Joseph attorney and a commissioner of the Berrien County Circuit Court, was also present. 
"By the >vay, Johnny Lujack told me after the 
\banquet that he and his lovely wife Pat are expect­ing their first baby in July. Although the gender hasn't been determined yet, Johnny admits he has been referring hopefully to the pending visitor as 'he.' 
"Just by way of closing, let me assure you that your correspondent is still in the employ of The South Bend Tribune, ferreting out news along the waterfront in St. Joseph and Benton Harbor. And since I have made many friends here (including a young lady who gets me, for better and probably worse, in September) I regard it as a profitable venture." 
Thanks very much. Jack, for your extremely newsy letter. Best of luck to you. 
FRANK CACCIAPAGLIA is with the United Slates Food and Drug Administration, Division of Antibiotics, in Washington, D. C. He, his wife and baby are living at 1218 Missouri Ave., NW, Wash­ington 11. 
GENE SLEVI.V is with the Slevin Sales Co., 807 Lehmann Building, Peoria. 111. Gene informs us that he has a little daughter 10 months old who will undoubtedly he a freshman at St. Mar>'s in 1S69. Gene has an address change to 609 W. Richwoods Blvd., Peoria. 
ANDY McKAY is a field under\\Titer for the Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York, with offices at 322-324 Shetland Bldg., South Bend. 
A note comes from DR. LEE STRUTNER with the report that he is tr>ing for a commission in the .Navy- He also reporU that: "BOB TERRY is studying in pediatrics and BOB MACK in internal medicine. FRANK \VYRENS is definitely going Nav>- and getting married in June. JOHN OLIVE was married in Kansas City, Mo., on Jan. 4 and is going into the Army in June. BILL GILLESPIE is reported to have a surgery residency' at St. John's Hospital in St. Louis." 
The following have received degrees in medicine: FRANK WALERKO, St. Louis University, June 9; THOMAS E. SNYDER. Sj-racuse University, June 
G: EDWARD J. S.\NDERS, Creighton University. June 2; BURTON F. SIMMONS, University of Georgia, June 6. 
1947—Reunion registrant: E. E. Mtlliman. 
1948 
Herman A. Zitt, Foundation Office, Notre Dame, Ind. 

JOHN J. SULLIVAN received his degree in medi­cine from the Syracuse University on June 6. 
The following received the degree of Master in Letters from the University of Pituburgh in June: WILLIAM H. RUSSELL, SAMUEL V. SMITH, CHARLES A. TULLEY, JR. Bill Russell has accepted a position with the Foley Brothers in Hous­ton, Texas, and Charley Tulley with the Montgom­ery Ward Co. Sam Smith is to teach advertising in the school ol businrj.- administration at the Uni­versity of Pittsburgh. 
JOE KIVLIN is a law student at Georgetown. JIMMY EVERT of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., reached the quarter-finals in the National Professional Tennis tournament, only to be turned back by Bobby Riggs. 
1948—Reunion regbtrants: R. F. Cangelosi, J. 
R. Sackinger, E. J. Schillinger, F. A. Tansey. 
1949 

DICK SMULLEN turned down some fat bonus offei3 to sign a contract with the Philadelphia Phillies. 
DR. JOSEPH PAPPALARDO has joined the Par­lin, N. J., plant of the DuPont Company's Fabrics and Finishes Department. He formerly lived in Lawrence, Mass. 
JOE PIEDMONT is a writer with the Department of Public Information at Williamsburg, Va. 
RAY MICHOLS has started his internship at the ?.iih>aukec County Hospital. Kay received bis M.D. from George Washington University. 
JACK GOURMAN signed a contract with the Boston Braves of the National League and has been assigned to Mar>'ville, Calif., of the Far West League. 
BERNIE POWERS of Pittsburgh, Pa., has been appointed head coach at St. Bede Academy in Peru, 111. 
The Detroit Lions of the National Football League love signed STEVE NEMETH. tRANK. GAUL of Cleveland, O., has been signed by the BufTalo Bills. 
LEO B.ARNHORST has signed a contract with the Basketball Association of America to play with its Indianapolis team. Leo's home is in Indianapolis. 
JOE CVRBARINI was awarded a degree by the University of Tennessee on March 21. 
Eight graduates of the Notre Dame law school were admitted to practice in Indiana federal courts when they took the oath on May 23. They are. DO.NALD H. HOOVER, PATRICK H. HAGER­TY, CHARLES S. REDDY, DAVID SKORY, EARL W. YEAGLEY, JR., THOiL\S W. TEAR­NEY, HAROLD J. COOK, and CHARLES W. AINLAY. 
President PAT COSTELLO told the Alumni Office before he left the campus that the Senior Ball had returned a profit of $280, half of which went to the Bengal Missions and half to the Student Council. 
1949—Reunion TCgUlrant: R. H. Schuler. 
Athletics 
(Continued from Page 18) 

due's Boilermakers in Lafayette on Oct. 8. .And it will be those same Boilermakers who are out for revenge for the 1948 Notre Darae game when the Irish squeezed through to a 28 to 27 victory in the season opener. 
Tulane will move into Notre Dame Sta­dium on Oct. 15, and uiJike Tulane teams of recent vintage, they are not to be rated six -or - seven - touchdown underdogs. The Green Wave had one of their best recent seasons last year, and will come to Notre Dame this season with virtually the same team, determined to wipe out the memory of the overwhelming defeats at the hands of the Irish in recent years. 
After an open date on Oct. 22, Coach Leahy will take his team to Baltimore to meet the Middies from Na\'y on Oct. 29, in a game which some people may tend to take too lightly. .Although Notre Dame cer­tainly will be favorites to beat the Middies, talk is prominent that Navy will come up this season with one of its better trams. 
Four of the ne.xt five games figure to tell the storj- of just how strong are the Irish of 1949. On Nov. 5, Notre Dame moves 
into East Lansing, Mich., to battle the highly-regarded Michigan State Sj^artans. Judging from the fact that the Spartans gave the Irish plenty of trouble last year before bowing, 22 to 7, and the fact that most of the State personnel returns thu year, the Irish will have to play their b::st ball of the year to return home the victor. 
Notre Dame returns to New York, site of the traditional Army series for so many years, on Nov. 12 to meet North Carolina's Tarheels in Yankee Stadium. Those who have watched Charlie (Choo-Choo) Justice cavort for the Tarheels are of the opinion that the Irish will have their hands full in protecting their defeatless games through this one. 
After facing Iowa in Notre Dame Sta­dium on Nov. 19, the Leahy squad closes out the season against two of the best teams in the nation. On Nov. 26 Notre Dame will be out to avenge the 14-14 tie of 1948 against Southern California, while on Dec. 3 the Irish will invade Dallas to face power­ful Southern Methodist. Doak Walker and Company proved last year that the Mus­tangs rank with the nation's best collegiate elevens, and on this partictilar day they also will be defending the prestige of the Southwest Conference against the Irish. 
When the Irish return from summer va­cation to resume practice, they shotild line up something like th's: Co-Capt. Leon Hart and either Doug Waybright or Bill Flynn at the ends, Avith sophomores Jim Mut­scheller and Chet Ostrowski also in the run­ning; Co-Capt. Jim Martin and sophomore Bob Toneff at tackles, with Ralph McGe­hee and Gtis Cifelli close behind; Frank Johnson and Fred Wallner, both from last year's squad, at guards, being pressed close­ly by Steve Oracko and Bob Lally, also 1948 monogram winners, and at center, Walt Gro­thaus and Jerry Groom are expected to share honors. 
In the backfield, junior Bob Williams will step into the quarterback spot vacated by the graduation of Frank Tripucka. Behind Williams, it looks now like sophomore John Mazur will be the No. 2 man. The rest of the backfield probably will include Bill Gay at left half, Emil Sitko at right half and Mike Sv.istowicz at fullback. And pressing the regulars for their jobs will be such sea­soned performers as Jack Landry, Larry Coutre, Frank Spaniel and Ernie Zalcjski, to mention only a few. Most promising among the sophomore candidates are Billy Barrett and John Pcttibon at halfback and Del Gander at fullback, although Gander may have to undergo a wrist operation which would mean his loss at least for most of the season. 
Honorary Degrees 

Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., presi­dent of the University, and I. A. O'Shaugh­nessy, of St. Paul, Minn., a lay trustee of the University, received honorary doctor of laws degrees from St. Thomas College, St. Paul, at its June Commencement. Father Cavanaugh gave the St. Thomas Com­mencement address. 
Mr. Bdward J. Tracey Jr. 
University Club Stats College. Pa. 
DIRECTORY of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ARIZONA—/•/lo.iiw—Thomas E. O'Mallcy, "39, 320 
W. Virginia. Tueion—Ted W. Witz, '29, Box 628. 
C.\LIFORNIA—Loi .-I>IK<-/«—Eugene C. Calhoun, '33, 7(M S. Spring St., Room 212. .Vor/Acrn—Donald L. .Mien, '37, Federal Bldg., Civic Conference, San Francisco. 
San Diego—V>'. Albert Stewart, '36, 728 San Diego Tr. & Savings Bank Bldg. 
COLOR.-\DO—fl<-n:rr—James F. Ilanlon, '18, 1652 Glencoe St. 
CONNECTICUT—Conncc/iVuf Katfo—William J. Reid, '26, 7 May St., Hartford. Naugatuck Valley—D. Frank Murnane, '32, Summit Rd., Prospect. Soulh-xesteTtt—Tnmk. S. McGee, '33, 51 Savoy St., Bridgeport 6. 
DEL.AWARE—Arthur C. Baum, '36, 1310 Van Buren St., Apt. 3-C, Wilmington. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—iroj/iinK/oii-J. R. "Pat" Gorman, '40, 1740 K St., .\W. 
FLORIDA—Crfa/<T .l/iomi—Fr-d .A. Jones, Jr., '47, 25 S.W. 18th Rd.. Miami. 
Fart Ijiuderdale—VTcd J. Stewart, '12, Port Everglades Station. NoTlh Florida—iohn F. Lanahan, '43, P.O. Box 1498, Jacksonx-ille. 
GEORGIA—William H. Schroder, Jr., '35, 162 Rum-son Rd., Atlanta. 
ID.MIO—Paul J. Kohout, '25, 1722 Washington St., Boise. 
ILLINOIS—C/iiVaso—John L. Buckley, '38, 929 N. Euclid. Oak Park. Fox rof/cj^William B. Chau-go, '31, 516 Binder St., Aurora. yoKf/—Joseph V. Kirincich, '33, 306 Ruby St. Pfon'o-Eugene R. SIcvin, '44, 609 W. Rich-woods Blvd. Rock River Valley—Donald A. Hennessy, '37, Catholic Community High School, Sterling. SpriniiM''-Richard T. Neeson, '30, 806 S. 8lh St. 
ISTlLKHA—Calumet Dislricl-i^mes J. Glenn, '35, 1337 119th St., Whiting. 
Eastern Indiana—^William B. Cronin, c.x-31, 521 
E. JefTerson, Hartford City. Fort Wayne—Eduin J. Wcsner, '25, 4607 Fair­field. 
Indianapolis—Nicholas J. Connor, Jr., '36, 33 Shelby St. Michigan City—Francis G. Fedder, '31, E. Cool-spring Ave. SI. Joseph I'o//o—Francis ^L Messick, '30, 1333 E. Wayne St., South Bend. Tri-Slate (Ky., Ind. and III.)—Robert L. Hen­nebcrger, '35, 126 E. 4th St., Mt. Carmel, III. Wabash Valley—Dr. Kenneth F. Laws, *36, 501-5 Lafayette Life Bldg., Lafayette. 
IOWA—D« J/oin«—Robert J. Tiernan, '40, 650 39th St. 
Dubuque—Louis F. Fautsch, '35, 1045 S. Grand­
\^ew. Sioux Ci/)'—Robert A. Manning, '36, 2719 Ne­braska bt. (key man) 7Vi"-Ci/;«—John R. Cor™, '22, 2515 I3lh St., .Moline, III. 
K.ANSAS—Eastern—^Judge Joseph J. Dawes, '26, 420 Ardi St., Leavenworth. 
KEN'TUCKY—James C. Carrico, '35, 2905 S. Foutrli St., Louisville. 
LOUISLANA—AVru Orleans—iu\ei K. de la Vergne, '38, 5811 Hurst. A'or//j<!rri—James R. -N'owcry, '29, P.O. Box 1545, Shrcvcport 94. 
M.\RVL.\ND—BdZ/imorc-Franklyn C. Ilochreiter, '35, 1327 Pentwood Rd. 
.\I.-\SSACHUSETTS—BoKon— John V. Moran, '30, Costcllo, Moran & Mahan, 31 State St. 
.\riCHIG.\N—BerriVn Counlj^-William 11. Doivney, '28, 60 .\. St. Joseph Ave., Niles. nine Water Du/ni:/-William L. Wilson, '42, 
P.O. Box 295, Port Huron. Central—Dr Edgar J. Hermes, '18, 828 N. Logan St., Lansing. 
flc/roi/—Thomas J. Moran, '35, 1329 Bucking­ham Rd., Grossc Pointe 30. Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—Frederick 
C. Cast, "37, 322 Auburn Ave., S.E. 
//•n.r<i//m/<inrf—Paul Krcuz, '33, 1215 Micliigan .Ave., Menominee, Mich. 
Iron Range—Robert T. O'Callaghan, e.\-45, 635 McLeod Ave.. Ironwood. Monroe—Thomas E. GrifHn, '33, 15 Washington 
SI. 
Saginaw Volley—Herbert R. Schneltler, cx-25, 1827 Hanchett St., Saginaw. 
MINNESOTA—r:f."n CiliVi-Paul H. Castner, '23, 1305 W. Arlington Ave., St. Paul 4. Dulttth-Superior-Wm. E. Colter, Jr., '41, 1929 
E. Superior St., Duluth. 
MISSOURI—A'flWM Ci(y—(Mo. and Kans.)—Rob­ert Pcndergast. '35, 405 W. 59lh St. Terrace, Kansas City, Mo. 
5/. Louis—John J. Griilin, Jr., '39, 7236 North-moor Dr., University City 5. 
MON'TANA—Bernard Grainey, '43, 801 I2th Ave., Helena. 
NEBRASKA—Eugene F. Milbourn, cx-39, 4431 Cass St., Omaha. 
.NEW JERSEY—Thomas B. Hogan, '38, 27 St. Lawrence Ave., Maplcwood. 
Ccnfro/-Michael J. Balog, '34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy. 
.NEW YORK—Bu#a/o—Daniel C. Sheedy '39; 350 
Roycroft Blvd., Snyder. Capital District—Joseph W. Conlon, '35, 832 New Scotland Ave., Albany. Ccnfraf-Daniel A. Kelley, '41, 706 Stinard St., S>Tacusc 4. 
Mohaivk Valley—V. Donald Fullem, '30, 203 
Roosevelt Dr., Utica. New York City—^Jordan Hargrove, '35, 247 Park Ave., Room 1600. 
iVor/Acrn-Rev. Donald S. Gallagher, '24, St. Bernard's Rectory, Lyon ^lountain. Rochester—John M. Hedges, Jr., e.x-43, 141 Scio St. 
Sehenec'ady—George G. Thompson, '42, 1152 
Van Antwerp Rd. 
Triple Cities—Dr. J. Worden Kane, '26, 55 
Riverside Dr., Binghamton. 
OHIO—Jtron-Paul A. BerUch, '29, 159 Oakdale Ave. 
Con/on—William H. Belden, '36, 305 22nd St., 
-N.W. 
Cincinnati—^John C. Cottingham, '38. Penn Mu­tual Life Insurance Co., 1200 Union Trust Bldg. Cleieland—Robert S. Slack, '41, 2714 Brook­dale Ave., Parma, 
Columbus—Dr. Thomas M. Hughes, '38, 481 
E. Town St. 
Dayton—^Thomas C. Ferneding, '40, 530 E. Had­
ley Ave., Apt. I. 
Hamilton—^Judge Harry F. Walsh, '31, Munici-
Iial Court. 
Ohio I'aHo'-Wilham J. Yaeger, '42, 156 S. 
Park St., Wheeling, W. Va. 
5(in<fuitj'—Alfred A. Sclinurr, Jr., '28, S. Co­
lumbus .Ave 
Tiffin—Fred J. Wagner, '29. 152 Sycamore St. Toledo—John R. Malone, '42, 4805 Summit St. Youngstown—Clarence T. Shechan, '40, "The \^ndicator." 
OKLAHOMA—rM/jo-William B. Padon. '42. 9 Woodland Dr., Box 1589. 
Oklahoma Ci"/}-—Haskell ;\skew, '31, 624 Trades­men National Bank Bldg. 
OREGO.N—Peter F. Sandrock, '39, 6334 -NE Grand Ave., Portland. 
PENNSYLVANIA-£oj(frn—Leo R. Mclntyre, '28, 3004 Turner St., Allcntown. 
£n£—Joseph C. Barber, '36, 705 Ariel Bldg. 
Wam";6urg—Edward R. Eckenrode, Jr., '44, 2929 North 2nd Ave. 
Monongahcla Valley—George C. Martinet, '31. 
R.D. No. 1, Charieroi. 
Philadelphia—Amhrox F. Dudlev, Jr., '43, 1123 N. 63rd St. 
Pittsburgh—Eugene J. Coyne, '33, Coyne Ave., Allison Park. 
irron/on-Michael B. Comerford, '43, 120.1 Richmont St. 
Wilkes-Darre—Dr. Maurice J. Regan, '31, 115 
S. Franklin St. 
Il'iV/ioml/ior/-Frank C. Hayes, '27, 820 Erie Ave., Renovo. 
RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS— Russell L. Hunt, '39, 412 Providjncc St., Provi­dence, R. I. 
TENNESSEE—.Ufmp/iu—Phil ^L Canale, Jr., '40. 1325 Commerce Title Bldg. 

TEX.AS—DflHoi-Edmond R. Haggar, '38, 5113 Lem­mon Ave. //oujfon—Charles S. Atchison, c\-30, 2320 Blue­bonnet. 
San .4nlonio—Leonard M. Hess, '25, 201 Stan­ford Dr. 
UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kearns Bldg., Salt Lake City. 
VIRGINIA—Dr. Charles R. Riley, '39, 3508 Sem­inary Ave., Richmond 22. 
WASIHNGTO.N—l('«(crn—John P. English. '33, J. 
P. English Steel Co., 465 E. 15th St., Tacoma. Spokane—John P. O'.Neill, Jr., '29, 218 W. 14th Ave. 

WEST VIRGI.MA—A!b-rt II. Kcssing, '40, £25 Montrose Dr., S. Charleston 3. WISCONSIN—Cr«n Baj^Ilarold L. Londo, '21, Sup'l.. Green Bay Water Dcpt. Fox River I'o/ffj'—William. H. Fiewcger, '36. 497 Riverway, Menasha. 
La Croijir—Frederick R. Funk, '46, 208 South 
15th St. 
.l/i7.caut«—William C. Malancy, '41, 4012 N. 
Farwell. 
South Central—John C. Brennan, '41, 2331 Eton 
Ridge, Madison. 

FOREIGN CLUBS Bengal, India—Rev. Jo!::. W. Kane, C.S.C, '24. (key man) Dacca, Eait Bengal. 
Ciiiu-Christopher C. Fitzgerald, '94, (key man). La -Metropolitana (711), Ilabana. //oaoii—Thomas W. Flynn, Jr., '35, 5317 Opi­lii St., Honolulu, T.H. 
J/ani/o—Anthony F. Gonzales, '25, (key man). The Insular Life Assurance Co., Ltd., Insular Life Bldg. 
/•fl/iawa—William J. Sheridan, '38, Box 605, 
.Ancon., Canai Zone. 
Puerto RiVo—Paul F. -McManus, '34, (key man), 
B & -M Products Company, Box 2595, San Juan. 








