The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

Mrclbme 
•- "71 ^^f)Y':^i^ 

toiimiir 
'^iif^ 
a^ 
^^^^^^ 

^^SK^ 
^ ^ v.- J^^SBHM^Sji 


^^^^9 
'{ V, '-ii^'^ 

>!L&: Vl 

^^ n 
i-&S> 

VOLUME 4J, NUMBER 4 
>4UGUST-S£PT£MB£R, J963 
t 
.villSS^ 

Vol. 41, No. 4 Aug.-Sept., 1963 
NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E.- ARMSTRONG, '25, Bdilor JOHN F. LAUGHLIN, '48, Monaging Editor REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C.. '41, Columnhl BRUCE HARLAN, '49, Phologwpher BONNIE GAY, Stoff Writer 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

Officers 

WILLIAM P. MAHONEY, JR., '38 
Honorary President OLIVER H . HUNTER, '43 President JOHN P. DEMPSEY, 'iS.J'und Vice-President WILLIAM H . FALLON, '37 
Club Vice-President 

PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY, '50 

Class Vice-President 

JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 
Executive Secretary 



Directors to 1964 . 

JOHN P. DEMPSEY, '49 Kidder, Peabody & Co. 123 Broad St., Philadelphia, PennsyK-ania 
PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY-, '50 P.O. Box 5672 Minneapolis 17, Minnesota 
-WILLIAM H . FALLON, '37 100 Pelham Road New Rochelle, New York 
OLIVER H . HUNTER, '43 F.B.I., P. O. Box 23 New Castle, Penns>'Ivania 
Directors to 1965 

ALBERT D . CASTELLINI, '24 506 First National Bank BIdg. Cincinnati, Ohio 
PHILIP J. FACCENDA, '51 1510 Ogden La Grange, Illinois 
PETER J. KER.N-AN, JR., '49 661 Washington Road Grosse Pointe, Michigan 
TIMOTHY J. TOO.MEY, '30 12 Windermere .Avenue .Arlington 74, Massachusetts 

Directors to 19GG 

GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR., '44 416 Burlington Avenue Bradley Beach, New Jersey 
PAUL I. FENLON, '19 141 Sorin Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
MORTON R . GOODMAN, '30 2415 Pilgrimage Trail Los Angeles 28, California 
W. LANCASTER SMITH, '50 Dallas Athletic Club Building Dallas 1, Texas 

Chairmen of the 1963 Committees 
OLIVER H . HUNTER Executive WiLLUM H. FALLON. Club Activities PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY Class Activities JOHN P. DEMPSEY 
Alumni Fundj Foundation & Gifts PHILIP J. FACCENDA Admissions PETER J. KERNAN, JR 
Placement & Counseling 

PATRICK A. DOUGHERTI-. 
Inter-Alumni Affairs PETER J. KERNAN, JR Public Relations ALBERT D . CASTELUNL 
.Jieligion & Citizenship 

WILLIAM H. FALLON AND JOHN P 
DEMPSEY Nominations ALBERT D . CASTELLLNL Budget & Finance PHILIP J. FACCENDA Athletics PETER J. KERNAN, JR Student Affairs 
This magazine is published bi-monthiy by -the Univemty of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 

CONTENTS: 
Pp. 2-5 Commencement and the decade's second Notre Dame Pope 
P. 6 Editorial: The Belabored Point 

Pp. 7-9, 27-34 A Pageant of Nostalgia: Reunion 1963 
P. 10 Man and the Moment: Report on Gettysburg*^ 
P. 11 1 Take Pa Back To Notre Dame, by Rev. Ed Calkins, O.S.M.^ 
P. 12 Books; Frederick Fund; Third European Pilgrimage 
P. 13 Notre Dame Went International: Florida Convention 

Pp. 14-15 Cardinal O'Hara as President, by Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C. 
f 

P. 16 Mission Accomplished: Alumni meet the "Challenge"' 
Pp. 17-26 Clubs: UND Night, part >­

Pp. 34-59 Classes: Statistics, Spotlight Alumni 
ON THE COVER: 





Commencement in 196B 
In June, Prime Minister Pearson; in August, Msgr. Hughes 
ABOVE: Nine honorarj- degree recipients surround Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CS.C, president, at the University's 118th annual comniencenicnt exercises June 9. ' 
They arc (left to right, front row) Ralph McGIII, publisher of the Atlanta Constitution; Prime Minister Lester B. Pearson of Canada, the coniniencemcnt speaker; Father Hesburgh; Most Rev. Mark McGrath, C5.C., Auxiliary Bishop of Panama, the baccalaureate speaker; 
^^ 

George D. Woods, president of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop­ment; and Don McNeill, the radio and TV entertainer. ^ 
Appearing in the second row are (left to right) Judge Harold Stevens of the Appellate Division of the New York Supreme Court; Dr. William K. Wimsatt, professor of English at Yale University; Dr. John C. Sheehan, professor of chemistry at the Massachusetts* Institute of Technology; and Alfred C. Stepan, Jr., president of the Stepan Chemical Co., Northfield, III., and a Notre Dame lay trustee. 
The summer commencement speaker In August was Msgr. Philip Hughes, famed 
*k

Church historian on the Notre Dame faculty (not shown). 
RIGHT: A slim, slight figure among principals at the 115th exercises. Cardinal Montlni^) seemed physically overshadowed by the presidents of the United States and the University, 
the rector of Rome's North American College, a Peruvian statesman and seven other scientists, scholars, and humanitarians, Including two Internationally acclaimed alunmi. Now, three years later the Vicar of Christ, he has assumed the most awesome responsibility on earth. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 
^ 
f 
" . . . . Truth, once possessed, diffuses itself so that others may possess it. It is the individual truth which becomes social truth. It is the inner truth which becomes outer truth. These gifts transform disciples into apostles. The college becomes a ministry. . . . We who belong to the realm of science and wisdom, the university, must understand the 
divine design of truth is for us a vocation, a blessing, a duty. We must be to the utmost both disciples and teachers. ... " 
POPE PAUL VI 

t Recalls I960 Ceremonies, Occasion for the American Visit of 
(On the occasion o( 1960 Commencement at the University of Notre Dame, when, as Giovanni Battista Cardinal Montini, he re­ceived an honorary LL.D. and celebrated the Baccalaureate Sfass.) 



POPE PAUL VI, NOTRE DAME MAN 
TUN E WAS A crowded month for Notre Dame — from tlic 
end of classes through commencement (featuring such as Canada's "Mike" Pearson, Atlanta's Ralph McGill and Notre Dame's own Bishop Mark McGrath of Panama), from perhaps the most impressive alumni reunion in the University's histoiy to an equally impressive prelude to the ^Civil AVar Centennial at Gettysburg — a Mass commemo­rating Chaplain-President Father William Corby's historic 
battlefield blessing, climaxing a spring of Notre Dame Night tributes to the University's patriotic legacy. 
But probably the most important Notre Dame event took place between Reunions and Gettysburg in time and about 4,000 miles away — in Rome. The untimely death of the beloved Pope John XXIII brought the College of Cardinals together in mourning to elect a successor. Their clioice was quick and widely anticipated; for the second time 
' fi"7^:?^r' 
*^^k^ 
Vr 
Fi2S?i:-'V>'.*•: ^-^ 
i'^-. 
^ 

SiSsA 
m 

CARDINAL MONTINI'S gift to Father Hcsburgh, a huge limited edition quarto volume containing 248 dra«-ings and sketches by Renaissance masters from the collection of Milan's Ambrosian Library, has an inscription in which the future Pope 
describes himself as "bound forever with chains of esteem, devotion and friendship POPE PAUL VI to a glorious American Catholic University in gratitude and benediction." ,. 
(Continued) 

"Bound forever . . to a glorious American Catholic University ... "  .„:^.o^Uc.^  c-Ce.  -U.  -lUi-tc  .*U  i^W^tt* 9^  -4^  ^^  *^  
EVERY INCH a "sacerdos magnus," the Cardinal-Archbishop begins a solemn proccs­sion with deacons: Fr. Paul Bcichner, dean of the Graduate School, and Fr. Robert Pclton, head of the theology department.  ^O^fMlcc^  

in an epochal decade, an honorary alumnus of Notre Dame occupied the Chair of Peter. 
His Eminence Giovanni Battista Cardinal Montinij LL.D., '60, the brilliant and progressive Archbishop of Milan, mounted the Papal Throne and chose the ecumeni­
•• E; 
cally significant name Paul, after the Apostle to the Gentiles, as \vitness to his taking up the great work begun by his saintly predecessor — toward the eventual reunion of all Christians in Christ. 
The death in 1958 of the Papacy's first Notre Dame •«/ man. Pope Pius XII, LL.D., '36, brought about much public speculation about a successor. The Archbishop of Milan, a startlingly successful opponent of the Communists in his embattled see, was the favorite by concensus. But the Holy Spirit raised the aged Patriarch of Venice, Angelo Giuseppe Cardinal Roncalli, to guide the Holy See of Rome 
(Continued on page 16) 
PONTIFICAL MASS, celebrated on the University Mali, has all the magnificence of the ancient Latin Rite. 
•---' * J-' 


« a;:*} 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 
BENIGNITY AND HUMOR are evident in the future Pontiff's gaze (right) as the camera catches him at the President's Luncheon between Archbishop O'Connor and President Eisenhower 
(chatting with Fr. Hesburgh). 
STERN ANT) STOICAL (above). Cardinal Montini listens as the President reaches a particularly serious point in a grimly earnest commencement address. 

i} 
ADMIRATION AND ESTEEM for Our Lady's University and her alumni, expressed to Fr. Hesburgh, shine (right) in the face of the future Holy Father when he presents the 
. Laetare Medal to Dr. Shuster, honored as an outstanding American Catholic layman for his many years in the ser\'ice of God and country and the hope of many more in the service of Notre Dame. In the back­ground sits the late Dr. Tom Dooley, '48, awarded an honorary degree for his humanitarian work as a jungle physician in Southeast Asia and throughout the world as co-founder of MEDICO. 


Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 


Sditorkl Comment 
from your Alumni Secretary 
THE BELABORED POINT 

T
HE 1963 REUNIONS, through great cooperation from all concerned, turned out to be not only the largest in our hbtor)' (more tlian 1100 ac­tually registered), but, from all the usual criteria, our best. 
Increasingly competent structure and staff enabled me to meet more alumni tliis time than in many of the recent years. 
The per\'ading spirit — noted by ad­ministration and faculty as well as our own staff people — i\-as good will toward Notre Dame. 
Possibly tlie exhilaration of the suc­cessful Ford Foundation Challenge Program e.'qilains some of thb. It was ob\'ious tliat the current resolution of the football situation also had much to do with the universal enthusiasm. 
But from individual and group dis­cussion I am sure that the one point that is always at issue in tlie mind of an alumnus of any year is change. 
AVe have discussed change in edi­torials and in the Clubs, and in articles. We have pictured change in periodicals and in moxong pictures. 
It is a seemingly belabored point. But I believe it still ret^ns its identitj' as the first point of concern. 
The obvious e-xplanation is that change does not mean the same thing to any two people, exactly. Yet, to be accepted, there must be some general understanding of what change involves. 

If my o\vn analysis is sound, I think the Notre Dame problem is not a unique one — it is the problem of con­stantly changing to meet the constant­
ly new, and at-the same time remain­
ing constantly unchanging to preserve 
and promote the constantly old. 
The returning alumnus is under­standably impressed, startled, bewil­dered, and concerned by what seem to be new faces, new buildings, new courses, new challenges. 
The great benefit of the Reunion weekend is that those who come to the campus return home understandably reassured that old faces, old buildings, old courses, and old challenges remain in surprising numbers, as the solid base upon which the new are building. 
Father Hesburgh, at the annual Alumni Banquet, pointed out that Notre Dame men must stand up and be counted. He is referring to the political;world, to tlie social world, to the turmoil of our time that needs des­perately the men with Notre Dame education. 
This is facing in new directions. But fundamentally it is the same demand to stand up and be counted that faced other generations, when tlie problems were family life, the life of the Church, tlie integrit)' of business and profes­sional life. 
We have come a long way from the wing structure studies of Dr. Albert Zahm to astro-jet travel, from the wire­less of Dr. Jerome Green to the wonders • of Telstar, from the pioneering of Father Nieuwland to the fabulous di­versities of srathetic rubber. Change? Of course. They, too, spearheaded what was revolutionar)' change in their times." 
But unchanging? Again, of course. For here at Notre Dame is the rich" heritage of the inquiring mind, the mis­sion to search for truth, but motivated by the timeless and unchanging realiza­tion that God is Truth, and tliat the, search for truth and tlie search for God are pursued best together. 
From its earliest days, Notre Dame was a sanctuar)' for intellectual rebels, but rebels with a cause, rebels who recognized constituted autiiorit>' until reason ultimately won over that au­thorit)'. 
Men — administrators, faculty, and students — are using new ideas, new-i. expressions, and new facilities, for new goals in a new world. And yet the basic purpose remains e.xactly the same as the day that Father Sorin anived on this site to found a college, and the" dedication remains today what it was on that first day, the education of" young men for God, through Mar\-. 
And tliis is the point to remember, belabored or not. -JEA . 
<^ 
li 
< 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 
. A Pageant ofJ^ostalgla 

REUNION 1963 
REGISTRATION: "The heads get bigger each year," affinii Tom, Jack, Marie and Betty of the staff as Tom Manuszak '48 gets a fitting for his chapeau. Nearly 1,100 alumni turned out June 14-16 to fill the "Gold Coast" residence halls and test the capacity and resources of dining facilities on the campus. 
MONOGRAM DAY: Past and present greats were caught in conversation by a South Bend Trib photographer June 13 
(from left): Denny Murphy '63, Fred Steers '11, Frank Rydzcwski '18, Ed Krause '34, and football assistant John Murphy '38, Denny's father. Frank Miles '22 (not shown) was elected president at the annual Monogram meeting. 

REUNION QUINTET: Trib photographer Dutch Hennings caught former Glee Club and ND Band director Joe Casasanta coaxing barber shop harmony out of an impromptu quartet: (l.-r.) Red Shea '23, Ed Troy '33, Bob Bannon '28, and Bill Grady '17. Prof. Casasanta wrote such all-time ND musical favorites as "Hike Song" and "Irish Backs." 
"DESTINY TEAM" head table at the Alumni Banquet featured: (from left) Fr. Walsh, Development; Hugh Devote, Football; Oliver Hunter III, Alumni; Fr. Hesburgh, University; toastmaster; Fr. Kenna, Prot-ince; Ed Krause, Athletics; Fr. Joyce, University; Dean Rossini, Research; and Fr. George Holderith, who made the traditional golf awards. Missing: George Shuster, Research; and the Vice-Presidents of Business Affairs, Academic .Affairs, and Student Affairs. 
NIGHT OF THE BIG WIND was provided by '38 at the Banquet. The Caledonia Pipers made Toastmaster Jim Armstrong (installed with similar ceremony as American Altunni Council president last year) wish he had brought his tartan tam. Everybody agreed with the Silver Jubilee banner proclaiming '38 the "greatest" .. . as long as they didn't specify the greatest what. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 1963 
Some Thoughts on Christian Wisdom 
OLIVER H. HUNTER HI, Alumni Asso­ciation president, the XX Reunion's contribution to progress, joined with Father Hcsburgh in reporting the State of the University. 
FROM THE PRESIDENTIAL REPORT. ALUMNI BANQUET 
TODAY Notre Dame is undergoing 

constant changes both physically and 
academically. Some of these changes 
we welcome and understand: others 
mystify us at times and are difficult to 
accept. However, we must continue 
our solid confidence in our capable ad­
ministration under Father Hesburgh! 
After all. what successful corporation, 
institution or nation ever became great 
without undergoing a revolution during 
some stage of its development? 
To add to the apparent misunder­standings, we hear unfounded rumors of excessive miconduct by the students, de-emphasis of our athletic programs, the hanging in effigy of Universit}' and athletic officials, and that each and ever)' student on campus had a straight "A" average in high school and ranked first in his graduation class. Such con­ditions are highly exaggerated! . . . 
AVe have watclied Notre Dame grow and under its present leadership it will continue to grow, until someday we will rank second to none! . . . 
Today, as never before, is the time for Notre Dame men to take die initi­ative in domestic and international affairs. .. . 
In closing, from an alumiius who still gets that lump in his throat when he sees the Golden Dome or hears the thundering notes of tlie Victor)' March —good luck and God bless you. 
— OLIVER H . HUNTER, '43 

(Excerpts from the Sermon at the Annual Alumni Mass) 
• AViSDOii itself is that virtue by which a man sees all things in life in the light of their ultimate causes, meanings, and directions. Christian wisdom is that wisdom by which a man comes to see all things in the light of the message of Christ in the Christian gospels and in the teachings of the Church. By means of Christian wisdom a man judges all tilings accurately and well and puts in order all tlie phases and facets of his life. By it a man distinguishes die permanent from the fleeting, die real from the illusor)', die valuable from the sham, tlie genuine from the fraudulent, the certain from the hypothetical. Christian wisdom is the road to unit)' and integritj- in one's life. .. . 
Charit)' or love is, indeed, the final measure of man before God. But Christian wisdom leads to profound and meaningful charity and it gives it an intelligent and comprehensive and solid basis. AVisdom opens the eyes and die heart. Charit)' or love is not something apart from Christian wisdom: there can be no wisdom wthout love, but there can be love without wisdom. .. . 
On the occasion of this Alunini Reunion, may I offer you a simple check-list ' to help you determine whether you are pursuing Christian wisdom and whether you have acquired it in proportion to your own personal capabilities and circum­stances? This check-list is not complete, of course, but it will ser\'e as a good start. Do you recognize in your life the primacy of quality over quantity? Do you value spiritual over material things? Do you regard the intrinsic demands and rewards of the work-to-be-done over the money you receive for doing it? Do you esteem . human things and human considerations over technical or business considerations? Do you treasure wisdom itself more highly than science? Do you see die common ser\'ice of human beings and dieir common or general welfare as more important than unlimited individual enrichment? 
—REV. JOHN E. AVALSH, C.S.C. 
ALUMNI MASS in Sacred Heart Church, another aspect of unchanging Notre Dame, had 
a sermon on "Christian Wisdom" delivered by the celebrant. Rev. John Wakh, C.S.C., Foundation director subsequently named Vice-President of Public Relations. 
Noire Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 

-^ ^v^::. 
' /I. > fn:s^

V\J f:-^ t ^ 
! ^ >.5' ••! 

1933 (X): The ten-year returnees effortlessly mustered well over 200 members for the 
largest attendance (although some of their elders did better percentagewise) 
and specialized in restrained joviality, demonstrated here and studiously 
duplicated by their live-year hallmates at Dillon and the South Dining Hall. 




REUNION 1963. ..THE CLASSES 
1938 (V): Undaunted by invitations that 
didn't arrive until time for them to go, 
the '38 "frosh" refused to lake the hint, 
showed up with a leprechaun mascot (left) 
and even supplied tables for their "elder 
statesmen" of the Law Class (above). 
(Continued on page 27) 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 S 
on which we here stand shuddered 




MAN and the MOMENT 
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41 
REPORT ON  
A FEW \-EARS ago I read these words of a great industrialist:  
"I dared to put the world on  
wheels  
But now I am afraid.  
Lest man will never stop again  
To see how snails are made."  
This is indeed the "pace" age and  
not just the "space" age. At Notre  
Dame we took a pause in the year's  
occupation to re-evaluate our position  
'  in American life. That Notre Dame is  
;  truly American needs no proof. But  
with the Centennial at Gett)'sburg we  
'  decided to slow down the machines,  
i  put the gears in reverse, look back a  
i  hundred years, and pray for those on  
I  whose lives we now stand. AS'e did this  
because the "pace" and the "space"  
of today would have us forget the men  
of another year who died painfully in  
the mud so that we might live peace­ 
fully under the sun. At Notre Dame  
we take all things with gratitude and  
never for granted.  
\Ve salute all tliose who took time to  
be ^^•ith Notre Dame at Gettysburg.  
There \%-ill be no listing of all names.  
This would be impossible: we had sev­ 
eral thousand in attendance. Naturally  
all eyes focused on General and Mrs.  
Dwight D. Eisenhower and on General  
and Mrs. John S. Gleason, Jr., who  
came, not only as a Notre Dame man,  
but as the personal representative of  
President John F. Kennedy. Then  
there were Archbishop Shehan and  
Archbishop O'Boyle — two great spir­ 
itual leaders. Also we had two wonder­ 
ful members of the hierarchy and great  
friends of Holy Cross, Bishop John  
Russell and Bishop William Connare.  
The master diplomat, kindly Bishop  
Leech, offered the Recitative Mass,  
which had as the leader the scholarly  
Bill Ball. The election and coronation  
of Pope Paul VI kept Cardinal Spell- 
man in Rome, but the always avail­ 
able substitute speaker for any and all  
occasions, our OUTI Father Hesburgh,  

GETTYSBURG 
was never better. He was as civil as possible when it comes to rights. 
For color and pageantry the day — even though hot — will not be forgot­ten: the red of the monsignori and the black robes of the clergy: the various orders of Sisters; the neat white of the AVomen's Auxiliar)' of the War Vet­erans, the Color Guard of the 69th New York, with mascot "Sweet Kathy," a panting wolfhound; the soft gray of the Catholic AVar Veterans; the plaid of the Clan na Gael; the forest hue of the Hibemia Greens; the magic colors of tlie 4th Degree Knights of Columbus; the gay sparkle of Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts — all these plus hundreds of flags blended beautifully toward a gold altar, the center of all and the purpose of the day. 
Congressman George Goodling of the House of Representatives read Father Hesburgh's speech into the Congres­sional record on July 9, 1963. He prefaced the speech with these words: "Mr. Speaker. It appears fitting that one of the first functions in connection with the obser\'ance of the centenar)' of the Battle of Gettysburg was a reli­gious one. On Saturday, June 29, at 12 o'clock noon. Bishop George L. Leech of the Harrisburg diocese of the Catholic Church was the celebrant at a Field Mass. SLx hundred 4th De­gree Knights of Columbus formed a living cross and presented a sabre salute at the elevation of the Mass." 
We salute in gratitude the Clubs of Philadelphia and Harrisburg. No words can ever repay the men from the City of Brotlierly Love. To the Careys and the Corbys, the Dillons and Gillens — "cead mile failte." This could go on but I close with a twenty-one gun salute to General John S. Gleason of the Veterans Administration who caine — his smiling self and wonderful family 
— with these words from President 
Kennedy: "Five score years ago the ground 
under the clash of arms and was consecrated for all time by tlie blood of American manhood. 
"Abraham Lincoln, in dedicating this great battlefield, has expressed, in words too eloquent for paraphrase or summar)', why this sacrifice was necessary. 
"Today, we meet not to add to his words nor to amend his senti­ment but to recapture the feeling of awe that comes when contemplating a memorial to so many who placed their lives at hazard for right, as God gave them to see right. 
"Among those who fought here were young men who but a short time before were pursuing truth in the peaceful halls of the then new Universit}' of Notre Dame. Since that time men of Notre Dame have proven, on a hundred battlefields, that the words. Tor God, For Coun­tiy, and For Notre Dame,' are full of meaning. 
"Let us pray that God may grant us the wisdom to find and to follow a path that will enable the men of Notre Dame and all of our young men to seek truth in the halls of study rather than on the field of battle." 
May the Good Lord bless all who gave their time, their money. May the new plaque inspire those who read it to remember there is always time to forget the death of seasons but we should never forget those who died in every season. 
GETTYSBURG oHiiinitlee members in reunion classes earlier in June, planning their strategy before the campus replica of Father Corby's statue on the battlefield, are (L-r.) Bud Dudley, '43, Charlie Con­ley '33, and Bart Johnson '48. Through unshown Bill Whiteside, Philadelphians contributed a new plaque identifying the hero of Gettysburg as a president of Notre Dame in his postwar years. 
10 Noire Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 

I Take 
Pa Back 
to Notre 


Dame 

By Rev. Ed Calkins, O.S.M. 

(The little vignette from Fr. Calkins is a tribute to a wonderful man, but in addi­tion points up the diversity of ways in which Notre Dame has contributed its influence '''to the constructive building of our world.) 
Main Building in 1879 

June. 1935, and four priests bring their father for hb first visit in the 56 years since the time of the Great Fire 
Y
OU'LL never make it, Ed. Pa's too 
dam bashful," both Father Frank 

Calkins and his brother Father Tom 
concluded. 
"Don't know anyone down there 

anymore," Pa assured us. 
"The old gent hasn't said no," Fr. 

•Ed went on. "He came on a few modest dinners with me lately. So?" 
Father Ed is oldest of four priest sons of Pa. They're all Ser\'ites. Mostly assigned at the Basilica, Jackson and .-Mbany, west side, Chicago. 
"No, Frank, you don't know Pa like 

I do," Ed persisted. 
This Father Frank is now Rector of 

our International College in Rome. 
"Ed, you'll never get Pa to return 

to Notre Dame!" 
"Cost too much?" inquired Ed. This Ed, alone of his reverend brothers, seems to have inherited Grandma's Scotch blood — her Inverness Catholic Scotch blood — and often he sports a Macrae Tartan jacket to prove it. Used to tell us of sour Sunday night sermons. 
"Grandma would haul me off to evening service. And those three fat lights right behind the preacher's head put me to sleep. Poor Grandma, shocked, would poke my ribs, as Fr. Maguire, O.S.M., concluded his homily." 
"Well, Hugh will be ordained June 8," went on Ed. "Good occasion, eh? Can we get Father Tom home?" He was then assigned to Detroit. This Father Tom, ex-Navy Ensign, First World AVar, is a story in himself. But let's get on with Pa's going home to his Alma Mater. 
So on June 9, 1935, my job was to finagle a big black limousine. This was Pa's day. We conned the Chicago Street Department to give him the day off. 
Monday morning, Hugh's First Mass still filling all hearts, off we go. Four priests and a bashful father! Poor Pa in the midst of so much theolog)-. 
"Wish your mother were here." AVe tried this and that by way of small talk. No go. "Oh how Mother would enjoy this!" Mile after mile that wish clung to us all. "There!" cried Hugh, at the first glimpse of the renowned Dome. He caught it first on our port bow — the Golden Dome which is vbible only for a bit, so bright amid the early green of the hills. Pa smiled and said nothinsr. 
We babbled on. How many thousands from Chicago knew that feeling! 
Mind you, this was a Monday; no big game, no national interest. Just my Pa and four "sa^" returning home. Reluctantly, bashfully. Pa wanted to re­visit the school where he once drew an oar for NJD. Back in 1879. And his four Priests sons were so proud of him! He showed us the lake — now dwindled so much — and then we went to the Chapel. 
"That's where I want to go." 
56 years before he'd made the first stop, the Chapel. A gawky 19-year-old from Toledo, Ohio. Braced now by four priests, he walked into Our Lady's Church. Up to the Communion railing. A few minutes of prayer. Silence and emodon. Then down that well known main aisle. Monday, remember. No one else in the Church. Hugh and Frank lead, then the backfield: Tom, Pa, Ed. 
Full of memories, old and new, step by step, poor Pa. He breaks the spell. "Ed," he whispers, tugging my sleeve, "not every one who comes here is guilty of putting four shouting evangelists loose on the country." 
I saw the tear in his eye as we walked out of the Church into the June sun­light. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 11 



Notre Dame Books 
LOVE IS LIFE, marriage handbook by Francois Dantec, rex-ised and adapted by Albert L. Schlitzer, C.S.C., '30, with a foreword by Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., '38. Notre Dame: Universit>- Press, 1963, 208 pp., §5.50. 

As Foyers Rayonnants, Abbe Dantec's 
moral guide to Christian love was very popular in France with married and en­gaged couples, priests and family couiuelors. This American adaption seeks not only to update the medical sections of the book but also to change terminology and refer­ences not familiar to American readers. 
Rev. John L. Thomas, S.J., St Louis Universitj- sociologist, has said: "We have all too few such ^vorks in English, that is, works that attempt to discuss the prac­tical implications of charity for marriage partners and parents. I liked in particular the emphasis placed on the educational aspects of parenthood, as well as upon the need for mutual consideration and self-conttol in marital relations." 
Father Hesburgh introduces this revi­sion by Father SchUtzer, professor of the­ology at Notre Dame and author of Prayer-
life of the Church, Redemptive Incarnation, 
etc. 
THE CONCEPT OF MATTER, philosoph­ical anthology, edited and with an in­troduction by Eman McMuUin. Notre Dame: University Press. 1963. 502 pp., $7.95. 
In this symposium Father McMuUin, re­search professor of philosophy at the Uni­versity, attempts the first large-scale sum­mary of the comple-K history of material concepts from Thales and Plato to Marx and Heisenberg, •mth the papers and dia­logues of 25 scholars. 
Books Moved To Completed Library; Dedication Scheduled for Next Vear 
August brought the job of transferring half a million books across campus from the old to the new Memorial Library. 
Completion of the building, except for the south mosaic mural ("Christ the Teacher with Kings and Scholars") and the landscaping, except for the lagoon and statuary, caps an East Campus de­velopment that has included Stepan Center, the Radiation Laboratory, Com­puting Center and Mathematics Building, power plant expansion, and the new Carticr Field and baseball diamond. 
Plans are under^vav for the dedication in 1964. 
John T. Frederick Fund Established 
For American Literature Collection 
Former students and friends of Pro­
fessor John T. Frederick, who retired as 
head of the University's Department of 
English in June of 1962, are establishing 
a fund in his name for the purchase of 
books in American literature for the new-
Memorial Library. 
Persons interested in contributing to 
this fund may send their checks to the 
John T. Frederick Fund, Box 89, Notre 
Dame, Indiana. 
THE QUIET WARS, poems by Samuel Hazo, '48. New York: Sheed & Ward, 1962, paperback, 95 pp., $.95. 
Nominated for the Pulitzer Prize, these poems have been praised by critics as show­ing a steady maturing of a talent already 
hailed in Discovery and Other Poems. 
Grouped in seven chapters vnth a prologue, the nearly 50 poems, from the autobio­graphical "Transition" to the similarly auto­biographical "1950-1960," sing of marriage, a family life, war and peace, art and realitj-, circuses and cami\-als, e-votic scenes of modemitj" and antiquity, with directness, irony, religious feeling, a sure imagery and great control of diction and assonance in pentameter and various verse patterns. 
Professor Hazo has taught since 1955 at Duqucsne Universit)-, Pittsburgh, where he is also associate dean of the College of Arts and Sciences. His poetrj- and literary criticism have appeared in two dozen jour­nals, including The Commonweal, The At­lantic Monthly, The Saturday Review and 
The Yale Review. He received his M.A. from Duquesne and a Ph.D. from the Uni­versity of Pittsburgh. To many honors, in­cluding the Mitchell plaj^mting prize at 
N.D. and the Borestone Mountain awards in 1960, the poet has added a plaque as 1963 Notre Dame Man of the Year in Pittsburgh. 
CHILE AND THE UNITED ST.ATES, 1880-1962, social study by Fredrick B. Pike. Notre Dame: Universit)- Press. 1963, 520 pp., $7.50. 
"The Emergence of Chile's Social Crisis and the Challenge to U.S. Diplomacy" is the subtitle of this book by Dr. Pike, Latin-American specialist and associate profes­sor of history at the University. Emphasized are the mounting anti-U.S. feeling obser\-­able on many fronts in Chile, the strong possibility of a Communist or Marxist ad­ministration in this most democratic of Latin-American republics, and the likely effects of President Kennedy's Alliance for Prosress. 
BOOK NOTES 
Rev. Robert S. Pelton, C.S.C, '43, chair-' man of the theologj- department and editor 
of the Religious Life in the Modern World 
series, has edited t^vo new books for the 
University of Notre Dame Press: The 
Church as the Body of Christ, Volume I 
of a new series of studies and research in Christian theologj" from the annual Catho­lic-Protestant Notre Dame Colloquium (120 '' 
pp., $2.95); and Proceedings of the 1962 
Institute for Local Superiors,first volume in 
a series of sue on "The Theologj- of the 
Apostolate" (286 pp., $4.50). 
Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C, '35, dean ^ of the Graduate School and a specialist in medieval literature, has written prefaces for two spring paperbacks of the University of Notre Dame Press: the foreword to the American edition of Dr. W. .A. Pantin's 
The English Church in the Fourteenth Cen­
tury (304 pp., $1.95), originally delivered at Cambridge by the Oxford historian; and the preface to J. H. Mozley's translation of 

A Mirror for Fools: The Book of Burnel ^ the Ass, a verse satire on monastic orders by Nigel Longchamp, a Benedictine monk^ of the Twelfth Century, with illustrations by Eve Graham (160 pp., $1.95), published in England in 1961. 
1963 PILGRIMAGE of alunmi to Europ­last spring, third such junket to Italy, Switzerland, France, England, and Irelard, used the appropriate services of Irish International Airlines. Will Escher, '34, is shown debarking with the Pilgrimage chaplain. Rev. Paul G. Wendell, C.S.C, '49, from ND. 

12 Notre Dame .ilumnus, August-September, 1963 
INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION fishing contest on Grand Bahama's West End wound up with the following prize winners (from left): Betty and Frank McGinn, Lighthouse Point, Fla., first prize; Mr. and Mrs. John H. McGinn, Lighthouse Point, Fla.; Harry Friedman, an adopted nonalumnus from Aliami, with a battling sevcn-and-a-half-pound boncfish; Mr. and Mrs. Joseph McNamara of ^Vinter Park, Fla., and Mr. and Mrs. Roy Laughlin of Rockledgc, Fla., with honorable-mention catches. 

YES! N.D. DID GO INTERNATrONAL 
at the Florida Convention sponsored by N.D. Clubs of Ft. Lauderdale and Palm Beach 
THEY CJ\5IE — 226, from 40 cities and nine states — by sea and air to make the First International Convention in the romantic setting of Grand Bahama Island. Notre Dame men and wives added e.xtra color to the Jack Tar Grand Bahama Hotel as grads and friends renewed old friendships and made new ones. N.D. songs, blending with calypso and "goombay" music, attracted natives as dele­gates explored an island that has seen pirates, blockades, rum runners, astronauts. Led by .Athletic Director "Moose" Ktause, former football Coach "Hunk" .-Vnderson, F t Lauderdale's Frank McGinn, Palm Beach's Jim Downey, and Gladys Ser\"ice, the fun seekers enjoyed sailing, tennis, swimming, bowling, skin diving, skeet shooting, golf, fishing, and dancing. 
The golf classic was won by none other than Moose Krause, with Bill Madden of Palm Beach pushing him down to the last stroke. Fishing ^vas a different storj' for the men: top honors to Betty McGinn, who not only won the women's trophy but boated a 36-pound tuna; second place to sister-in-law Marlene McGinn; heaviest bottom fish. Bob McDonough; heaviest barracuda, Tom Maus; to friend Harr>- Friedman, a trophy for his 7}4-pound streak of lightning, the elusive bonefish; last place to John McGinn for his red snapper. 
Universal Notre Dame Night will long remain with us in memory — together with the colorful history of the island, the discovery of Notre Dame's own Bob Hope in banquet M.C. Dan Downey, the vibrant drum rhythm known as "goombay," and the calypso singing of native bohemians. Our deep thanks to Father James Moran, C.S.C., of Notre Dame for his presence; to Moose Krause, Frank McGinn, JimDo\vney, Rome Hartman, Don Dorini, Dr. Bernard O'Hara, Dr. and Mrs. Howard Service, Hunk and Marie .•Anderson, Bill Motsett, Dotty Friedman, Ed Hunt, Dan Downey, and Charles Rudd, who helped make sure — from the moment Mackey .Airlines completed the short hop over the deep blue of the Atlantic and put down on the 6,300-yard rumvay — Notre Dame conventioneers had fun in the sun. 
WlLI.,\RD F. Moss, Co.NVENTIO.N" CHAIR.MAX 
PALM BEACH-FT. LAUDERDALE UND Night was a climactic event of the Florida International Convention sponsored by tbose hvo organizations, at left. Attentive to Athletic Director Moose Krause's speech arc (l.-r.) Dr. Bernard O'Hara, Palm Beach; Airs. Don Dorini, Ft. Lauderdale; Fr. James Moran, C.S.C., Notre Dame; Dan Downey, Palm Beach, m.c.; Don Dorini and Willard Moss, Ft. Lauderdale; and Mrs. Krause. At right, former ND Coach Hunk Anderson holds pin while Moose lines up a putt on the ninth hole at the Jack Tar Grand Bahama Hotel and Country Club. Looking on are (l.-r.) Gen. Mgr. Ed Hunt, formerly with The Morris Inn at Notre Dame; Tom Walker, Dania, Fla.; and Don Hogan of Clucago, III. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 13 

CARt)iNAL O'bARA: 
The pResitieNdAL yeAKS 
SELECTED EXCERPTS FROM THE FORTHCOMING 
BIOGRAPHY BY REV. THOMAS T. McAVOY, C.S.C. 
The death in 1960 of His Eminence John F. Cardinal O'Hara, 
C.S.C, '11,. Archbishop of Philadelphia and a former President of the Universitj- (1934-40), was marked by the ALUMNUS wth a scarcely adequate memorial issue in which perfunctorj- note was made of Father O'Hara's celebrated ser\'ice as Prefect of Religion and founder-editor of The Religious Bulletin. The first opportunit)' for evaluating Father O'Hara's years as a university administrator is afforded by Father McAvoy's biography, which proceeds from earliest youth through the first detailed portrait of Bishop O'Hara in his years as Military Delegate and Ordinary- for the See of Buffalo. Father McAvoy has pro\aded a section from the draft of Chapter \^ I beginning in Sep­tember, 1935. For added perspective, some violence has been done to the veteran historian's chronological approach. Excerpts from text are in roman t\-pe, interpolations in italic. 
SCHOLARSHIP AND RESEARCH 
To a generation of Notre Dame men, the name O'Hara con­jured the image of a lovable didactician-sacramentalist whose symbols were the confessional or "box," the priestly stole, and the Communion rail. But Father McAvoy's account of Father O'Hara's second year as president reveals five principal concerns of the priest-administrator: a passionate interest in the future of Notre Dame as an academic and scientific community; a concomitant regard for immediate material resources required to effect that future, demanding new-found talents as a fund-raiser; an appreciation of athletics, particularly football, as a character-building, financial, and public relations reality at the University; an involvement in public affairs as a necessary adjunct of the presidency; and, of course, his ever-present concern for the moral and religious training of the young. 
All these elements are present in the following excerpt, but predominantly it demonstrates an intuition of future development and academic trends with Father O'Hara's part in the beginnings of the Graduate School, LOBUND, the Mediaeval Institute, aerospace research, and other enterprises now in blossom. 
The chief result of the first year of Father O'Hara's administra­tion was a revival in productive scholarship and a consolidation of the advances of the undergraduate school since World War I. Since he kept no diary and apparently gave no formal report of his acti^ties to his immediate superior it is difficult to set down clearly what this moderately tall thin man with the scarce graying hair was actually hoping to accomplish, ."^s always he had a deep sense of the value of public recognition of the progress of the University. He was also a>vare, because of his trouble with the Pritchett report and his encounter with the Carnegie Corporation, that Notre Da"me had a definite incentive to overcome the reputation it was acquiring as a "football school." He had no intention of de-emphasizing football, because he knew quite well that it had aided the University, but he did not intend to expand the University's activit)- in that sphere. Rather, while holding the line on football, he hoped to ex­pand the other activities of the Universitj- in the manner that he had been challenged to do by Dr. Pritchett. 
He had failed to get Carnegie support for the expansion of the strictly artistic side of the University. The recognition of the work of Father Nieuwland was not only of great moral \-alue but it brought direct financial aid from chemical industries. He saw re­markable possibilities in the technical skill of Professor James A. Reyniers in biological experimentation, particularly in the develop­ment of germfree life. The problem there was to attract the necessarj- financial support from the foundations or from industr)'. In engineering the future seemed to lie in aeronautical engineering. The development of mediaeval studies had been more or less the ideal of most Catholic colleges and universities, because with the revival of the philosophy of Saint Thomas .'\quina5 all liberal arts studies in Catholic colleges had tended to center around mediae\-al philosophy. The ideal of creating a new interest in that mediaeval world which produced this Catholic philosophy was natural. The problem here was that the United States was anything but mediaeral and materials, teachers, and students had to be imported, and that again required finances. The other natural field for graduate en-, deavor for a Catholic university was in apologetics. To train lay apologists who could expose and defend Catholic cultural ideals offered a natural flowering of the university's work in humanities. 
Finally, Catholic schools were trailing miserably in the social sciences. He proposed to start a program leading to a master's degree and asked for ten scholarships for the students to be trained in the social sciences. Sociology was not yet fully accepted by Catholics but social work was necessary. In the depression also there had arisen a demand for economic studies to fit the social en­cyclicals of the recent pontiffs into .American economic and social life. Most Catholics already in the field had been trained by Fathers John A. Ryan and William Kerby of the Catholic University, both really theologians. Father O'Hara saw a chance to establish a center in this field for Catholics and tentatively had made contact with a sponsor. 
For all graduate work he saw the need of fellowships if good students were to be attracted. He turned, therefore, to the heads of the \'arious departments and programs and asked for a statement of their plans and needs partly for his annual report to the lay trustees and partly so that he could be properly informed when he went out to beg. 
In the meantime the undergraduate school was the object of his immediate attention. At the solemn opening on Sunday, Septem­ber 22, to the incoming Freshmen he talked of their need to avoid Communism and said that the discipline that they would receive at Notre Dame would be the best safeguard. He admitted that there ^vas a difference between Notre Dame and some other universities in their conception of academic freedom. He did recognize a proper field of speculation outside of the fundamental metaphysical princi­ples and there the University allowed "greatest freedom and the most eager curiosity." There was no conflict between science and religion and as proof of this he said that Notre Dame had achieved distinction in several fields of scientific research ... . the new semester had begun and the University calendar was crowded with 
Father McAvoy is University archivist the iormer head oi the deportment oi iiistory. managing editor oi the "Review oi Politics." and an author on American Catholic history. 
J4 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 
speeches by the lecturers he had brought from Europe. Christopher Hollis, a history teacher from the Jesuit College at Stonyhurst in England, gave regular courses for the whole year, and Desmond Fitzgerald gave courses for six weeks. Both of these gentlemen and the other visitors gave public lectures that were remarkably well attended. Desmond Fitzgerald spoke every Tuesday for six weeks on George Crashaw, Coventrj- Patmore, Manley Hopkins, Joseph De Maistre, Ernest Hello, and Leon Bloy. Christopher Hollis lec­tured every Thursday and announced a series of fourteen topics with considerable reference to economic problems. Hollis was also asked to join in the new proposed research program in economics. On October 9 and 10 .Arnold Lunn gave public lectures on apologetical topics. 


BEGGING AND DEVELOPMENT 
The chapter has much about Father O'Hara's personal efforts with the Carnegie Corporation, John F. Cushing, Martin Gillen, Orlando Weber, Francis Garvan and others to secure funds for immediate projects. It also describes his appeals to alumni and trustees with a practical approach to the future University he envisioned. 
... . In the November AH;.MNUS he published a letter stating the immediate needs of the University. He also announced a policy of limiting the enrollment of undergraduates, of raising scholastic standards, and of not building any more residence halls for under­
. graduates unless to replace an existing building. He excepted from this the hope to build a hall for graduate students. Instead of resi­dences there was the need for a new Biology Building to house the experiments of Professor Reyniers, the need of additional new equipment for the young physics teachers who had constructed a generator for high-tension experiments for $3,000 which would have cost ten times as much if purchased commercially, and for a new laborator>- space for the chemistry departments. Younger mem­bers of the Congregation were studying in other universities in physics and mathematics and new laboratory facilities would soon be necessary for them. The Mediaeval Institute also needed Iibrar>­facilities and $450,000 was necessarj- to complete the Rockne Memorial Building. Father O'Hara listed also as a need the Fine Arts Building costing $400,000 which he had tried unsuccessfully to get from the Carnegie Foundation. For all the graduate depart­ments he stressed the need of fellowships, some for the master's degree and others for doctoral candidates, thirty-two at $750 each. In this letter Father O'Hara was picturing a new Notre Dame, not replacing the old, or in any way hindering the old, but as a kind of flowering of the more perfect work he hoped would be done on the undergraduate level. 
When the Board of Lay Trustees met on November 8 Father O'Hara's report followed along the same lines as his letter to the ALUsixtJS. He reviewed the progress of the previous year. The number of students had increased 104 over the previous year, and was the highest since the depression began. He mentioned the recognition accorded Father Nieuwland in the previous year, the visiting professors from Europe, and the departure for study of Fathers Charles Miltner, Leo Ward, Thomas McAvoy, and Henry Bolger. He listed the new departments. He stated that a new Biology Building costing $200,000 was under consideration for erection the next spring and spoke of the accomplishments in the germfree technic under Professor Reyniers. In addition to the new infirmary now nearing completion, a priests' faculty house and a dormitory to replace the first frame building were being planned. He also listed the benefactions to the University and the amount of its debts the University had been able to collect despite the depression. . . . 

FOOTBALL AND ITS CONNOTATIONS 
Football was one of many reasons for enthusiasm in that memorable fall of 1935: 
... . Also the ability of the football team to win on successive Saturdays, but only by hard struggles, added to the tension that filled the campus air during the first weeks of the fall semester. Whether he was interested in football or not Father O'Hara had to appear at most of the games to greet the attending benefactors and friends of the University, or at least to make sure that they received tickets for themselves and their intimate friends. . . . 
... . Football at Notre Dame continued to dominate the campus, chiefly because of the dramatics with which the team managed to come back from near defeat toward the end of most of the games to win. Finally came the day of the climactic meeting with the all-victorious team of Ohio State University. Neither team had been defeated, and in general, Ohio State was expected to win, and 81,000 people gathered in Columbus to watch the game. There were many clergy there, and Father O'Hara had gone to Columbus with Bishop Noll of Fort Wayne. The game became one of the most dramatic contests of all the school's athletic history culminat­ing with a winning touchdown scored in the last minute of the game. 
Reams of emotional \vriting appeared in the press following the game, and most of it was favorable to Notre Dame. Father O'Hara escaped making any notable comment, but he did bring to the trustees' meeting a clipping from the Chicago American praising Notre Dame not only for sticking to fundamentals in foot­ball but especially to the fundamentals of true education. . . . 
In a December letter to Father Burns, the Provincial: 
"The football season was quite successful. I see that the Chicago 
Tribune gives the ofiicial attendance at all our games as 489,000— 
90,000 more than the next best attendance record, the Navy's. I am 
sure that this includes the vast number of free tickets that are given 
for the opening game, and we have no figure yet on gate receipts. 
There will be a satisfactory increase over last year, I am sure. 
"The total number of Bishops who attended games this year, 
including duplications, was about seventy. We had forty members 
of the Hierarchy at the .\rmy game. The date for the Bishops' 
meeting synchronized beautifully this year. The number of Bishops 
who attended our home games was gratifying. I was glad to see 
so many members of the Hierarchy take time out for a good look 
at the Universit>'. ... " 



CITIZENSHIP AND PUBLIC LIFE 
There are numerous instances of involvement in patriotism and public affairs: 
... . Returning to Notre Dame Father O'Hara attended the formal induction into citizenship of 132 aliens in the circuit court room of Judge Dan P>"le. Father O'Hara gave a brief speech and some patriotic societies furnished music for the occasion. . . . 
And in the letter to Father Burns: 
"You have probably been picking up news of the President's visit here next Monday. This occasion has kept everyone very busy. You heard the beginning of this occasion — it will probably be some time before we hear the end of it. After we were confidentially advised of the President's acceptance of our invitation, I went to Washington and had lunch with the President. We had an hour together, and it was a very interesting time for me. The demand for tickets is terrific. We have done our best to keep the occasion on a sane, academic level. 
"Cardinal Mundelein will preside at these exercises, and he has been most gracious about the whole matter. I have had a few verj­uice visits with him. The Superior General will return from Montread in time to act as host to His Eminence. ... " 
Father O'Hara played down in the letter the importance of the visit of President Roosevelt and the Philippine Convocation, although it was at fhat moment the talk of the Catholic press. That story really begins at least in mid-October. 
For many years Notre Dame had numbered among its students and alumni members of several prominent families of the Philippine Islands. Father O'Hara had talked with them about their home­land and their future. On November 15, 1935, the Commonwealth of the Philippines was to inaugurate its first President, Manuel L. Quezon, and those who were watching the development in the Islands were very anxious that democracy in the new country would not witness the irreligious outbreaks that had been witnessed in Mexico and Spain. 


RELIGION AND DISCIPLINE 
With all this Father O'Hara always found time for his life-long preoccupation. 
The next day the Seventh National Eucharistic Congress opened in Cleveland. On Tuesday afternoon, September 24, Father O'Hara had been asked to address the sectional meeting for priests under 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 19S3 IS­
' the title "The Eucharistic Priests and Catholic Action Among Young Men," a topic which he accepted saying that it was very dear to his heart and for which he would give up his customary direction of the annual Freshmen mission. Just as he had been chosen for this speech because of his experience as Prefect of Religion, the speech as he gave it was a plea that priests adopt a mode of action towards young men much like his own. For him, the 
! young man of today needed social help and the renewal of frequent Communion was the modem remedy. Statistically the Catholic young man in our society* was living and working with four others not of his Faith and therefore needed to safeguard his Faith and at the same time have a positive intention of influencing these four neigh­bors. The eucharistic priests, he said, had the situation in their hands and any failure in Catholic action %vill be charged to them. To these priests he made the first means a case of confession. "The priest who makes it known to his congregation that he is always at their beck and call for absolution mil never lack penitents, and although his patience will be sorely tried at times, God will visit him wth spiritual consolations so great that he will feel no need of worldly distractions or relaxation." The other means, of course, was frequent Communion. "The Catholic Action prescribed by Pope 
r Pius XI seems to me the natural fruit of a generation of daily Communion, as prescribed by Pius X." . . . 
On October 9 Father O'Hara had gone to Albany to participate in a celebration in honor of the opening of the new high school there by the Brothers of Holy Cross. Challenged at the dinner to explain the title "Fighting Irish," he said that Notre Dame was an .^U-American institution. He added that in Catholic education, the training of the mind and the heart go hand in hand but "if there is a choice between brains and virtue, we choose \-irtue." 
And in the letter to Father Burns: 


POPE PAUL VI (Continued from page 4) 
as John XXIII, to reign for nearly five years as "a voice crj'ing in the wilderness," a herald of reform and regenera­tion like the great precursor John the Baptist. It may be no coincidence that this is also the Christian name of the man 
Mission >lccoinp/fsAed.' 

Alumni Meet the 'Challenge' 
In June, weeks before the deadline for the Ford Founda­tion's three-year matching grant of six million dollars under terms of the revolutionary Special Program in Education, the Notre Dame Foundation far exceeded the required condition of twelve million dollars (cash) in private, non-research con­tributions to the University from aliunni and friends. 
In the spring the Foundation had surpassed its aimoimccd three-year "Challenge" goal of eighteen million dollars in gifts and pledges — more than six million dollars of it pledged by alumni! 
In both cases, Notre Dame's alumni respectively gave and pledged more than a third of the total — t\\'ice as much as had been projected in the predictions of professional fimd constiltants and more than double their performance in any previous time period. Moreover, in a three-year "capital" or major gift campaign which absorbed the traditional emphasis on participation in the Annual Alumni Fund, alumni partici­pation not only failed to du'indle, as other schools had experi­enced, but actually doubled. Alumni were "involved" in the campaign to the record-setting extent of eighty percent of the membciship! 
At next June's Class Reimions an award will be made to the Notre Dame Class with the highest participation in the Challenge campaign and annually thereafter for the highest Alumni Fund participation. 
16 Noire Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 
BOSTON'S TIMOTHY J. TOOMEY NAMED TO THE ALUMNI BOARD 
At the June meeting of the Aliunni Association Board of Directors, held in conjunction with the 1963 Class Reunions, Timothy J. "Tim" Toomey, '30, of Boston, Mass., was named, 
by a unanimous vote of the Board, to fill the vacancy created by the recent resignation of Adam M'alsh, '23, imder pressure of business. Walsh, former head football coach at Bowdoin College, is United States Marshal for Maine. 
Toomey has been an officer of the Notre Dame Club of Boston for the past few years, most recently as president, and is currently serving as editor of the Boston Club newsletter. 

An insurance executive, Tim is umnarried and formerly re­sided in New York City, where he was also an officer and editor for the Notre Dame Club of New York. He also scr\es as vice-president of the Class of 1930. 
"Things at the University are moving along nicely, and from the mid-semester report of delinquent students, I take it that the football season was not too distracting. The disciplinary record has been excellent. It took Father Boland all last year to convince the boys that he meant business. The results have been surprisingly fine. I hear ver>- little complaints about the ne\v restiictions that were imposed last year, and the number of students dismissed for infractions has been negligible." 
chosen to continue this regeneration toward ultimate re­union. Three Junes ago, in 1960, Cardinal Montini came to the Notre Dame campus on the Feast of Pentecost to join a most august commencement assemblage, headed by the President of the United States then, Dwight D. Eisen­hower. Nine more international figures were in that un­precedented group, distinguished leaders in religion, diplomacy, education, art, science, business, humanitarian­ism. Included were two illustrious alumni: Dr. George Naumann Shuster, '15, retiring president of 'i^ew York's Hunter College, famed as an author, editor and diplomat, who accepted the coveted Laetare Medal from the hands of the great Italian prelate: and Dr. Thomas A. Dooiey III, '48, the young physician of Laos and Viet Nam, founder of a world-wide medical network, author-hero of several best-selling documents before his death from cancer si.\ months later. Ph)-sically, the Cardinal was among the small­est of the dignitaries present that day. But when he donned the miter and took up his staflf for a Solemn Pontifical Mass and a challenging message (see quotation, page 3), he seemed to all assembled every inch a future Vicar of Christ on earth. 
In the afternoon (page 5), the Pope-to-be impressed everyone he met with his urbanity and - asceticism, kindli­ness and wit In him there seemed to be graciously blended the scholarly, patrician aspect of Pius XII with the common sense and humor of John XXIII, loftj' yet lovable, un­worldly yet down-to-earth. The depth of his feeling for Notre Dame was e.\pressed in the inscription (page 4) in a priceless commemorative gift to Father Hesburgh. 
The University shared Pope Pius with other Americar schools as Papal Diplomat Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli, but the former Archbishop of Milan, having crossed the Atlantic fo • only one honorary degree, reigns uniquely as His Holinei; Pope Paul VI—^Notre Dame man! 



Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ALABAMA 

John A. O'Brien, Jr., '31, 1465 Linda Vista Dr., Kcscnt Forest, Binning-ham, Ala. 
ALASKA 

John S. Hdknthal, "35, Box 941, Anchorage, Alaska. 
ARIZONA 

P/iofnir—John J. Schouten, '48, 2120 
E. Palm Ln., Phoenix 6, Arizona. Tucion—^Timothy R. King, '37, 5651 
E. Scarlett. 
ARKANSAS 

FoTt Smith—James A. Gilker, '48, 3715 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. 
Little Rock—James E. ^fadigan, '43, 4617 Crcstwood, Little Rock, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 

Botffj^Wif—Richard L. Bamett, '56, 630 Golden State H»T., Bakersfield, Calif. 
CfnlriJ—Harold A. Hair, '29 (Secre­tary), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Calif. 
Greater Long Beach Area—Francis E. Conaty, '43. 3742 West I70lh St., Torrance, Calif. 
Los Angeles—'Ro\iaX. L. Gcrvais, '55, 3219 Rosewood .\ve., Los Angeles 66, Calif. 
SoTthern—Daniel J. Gentile, Jr., '48, 2932 Hillside Dr., Burlingamc, Calif. Orange County—F. Steve Finan, '37, 
2864 Monroe, Anaheim, Calif. 

Sacramento—Alfred A. Kaelin, '35, 2784 Harkness St., Sacramento 18, Calif. 
San DiVjo—Chris Cohan, '54, 6080 Cowles Mtn., La Mesa, Calif. 
San Fernando Valley — Thomas W. Dunlay, '52, 14944 Napa St., Van Nuys, Calif. 
San Gabriel roBo'— William T. Huston, '51, 612 S. Flower St., Suite 700, Los Angeles 17, Calif. 
COLORADO 

Colorado Springs — William J. Don-elan, Jr., »29, 1800 Mesa Ave, Broadmoor, Colorado Springs, Colo. 
Denver—^James M. Coughlin, '57, 3480 E. Quarles Dr., Littleton, Colorado. 
CONNECTICUT 

Connecticut Valley — Robert L. Mc-Goldrick, '56, Old County Highway, East Granby, Conn. 
Fairfield County—William Mulrenan, '37, 100 Tidemill Terr., Fairfield, Conn. 
Kougatuck—Domenic A. Narducci, Jr., '52, 44 Beacon Manor Rd., Xaugatuck, Conn. 
yew Haven—Dr. Robert T. Warner, '53, I960 Whitney Ave., Hamdcn. 17, Conn. 
DELAWARE 

Richard P. Hairsine, '55, 2219 Hcam Rd., Fairfax, Wilmington 3, Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
.^bert .K. Virostek, Jr., '56, 7707 Granada Drive, Washington 34, D.C. 
FLORIDA 

Central—Joseph M. McNamara, '47, 
P.O. Box 5547, Orlando, Fla. 
Fort Lauderdale—Donald K. DorinI, '53, 6241 S.W. 5th Ct., Plantation, Fla. 
Greater Miami—Ra>-mond Popp, '38, 444 N.E. 50th Terrace, Miami, Fla. 
Xorth Florida—^John F. Corrigan. '53, 1200 Bamett, Nat'l. Bank Bldg., Jackson%'ille 2, Fla. 
Palm Beach County—Dr. Bernard J. O'Hara, '48, 503 29th St., West Palm Beach, Fla. 
Pensacola—^John L. ^^cCormack, '49, 
P.O. Box 8, Pensacola, Fla. St, Petersburg-Tampa — Mark E. 
Mooney, '26, 4525 Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGIA 
Atlanta—Jtabcrt F. Hochman, '50, 210 North Ave., N.W., Apt. 31, At­lanta 13, Ga. 
IDAHO 
P. Michael Kohout, '59, 6820 Folk 
Drive, Boise, Idaho. Idaho Falls —James it . Bradv, '29, 
P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS 
Aurora—Edvnrd J. Fanning, '39. Fan­ning Chevrolet, Inc., 230 S. Broad­way, Aurora, lU. 
Central Illinois — Thomas Hamilton, Jr., '53, 3349 S. Fifth St., Spring­field, 111. 
Chicago—Norman J. Barry, '44, 105 
S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, III. Decatur — Ambrose C. Moran, '48, P.O. Box 1296, Decatur, 111. Eastern Illinois — Leslie C. Hahne, Jr., '49, P.O. Box 528, Danville, 111. Fox Valley— George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, 111. yoK«—Robert M. Walsh, '43, 2609 Dougall Rd., Jolict, III. Kankakee Valley — Thomas J. Rey­nolds, '54, 34314 S. Winfield, Kankakee, 111. McHenry County—Paul D . McCon­nell, '32, 422 Harrington PI., Woodstock, 111. Peoria—Jo\m R. Powers, '53, 2910 Westport Rd., Peoria, III. Rocklord—Mhcn Carroll '22, 206 W. State St., Rockford, 111. Rock River Valley — Luke R. Morin, '53, 523 N. Dixon Ave., Dixon, III. Southern Cook County — Robert N. 
Caffarelli, "55, 2633-E Hawthorne Lane, Flossmoor, 111. 
INDIANA 
Calumet District — David W. Ogren, '53, 5946 Hohman Ave., Hammond, Ind. 
Eastern Indiana—William F. Craig, '29, 1505 GranvUIe, Muncic, Ind. Elkhart — Austin GUdea, '30. 5 St. 
.. Joseph Manor, Elkhart, Ind. Evansville—D. Patrick O'Daniel, '59, 3110 East Gum St., Evansville, Ind. 
Fort Wayne — Robert R. Luther, '49, 443 Kinnaird Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Indianapolis—Hon. John M. R>an, '41, 5640 Washington Blvd., Indi­anapolis 20, Indiana. 
Michigan City .— Edward J. Dw^er, '50, 2200 Oriole Trail, Long Beach, Michigan City, Ind. 
St. Joseph Valley — Gerald Hammes, '53, 545 E. Angela, South Bend, Ind. 
Terre Haute—James E. Sullivan, '53, 539 ifonterey, Tetrc Haute, Ind. ft'abash Valley—James W. Glaser, '50, 
P.O. Box 59, Lafayette, Ind. 
IOWA 

Burlington — Edward W. Daily, '33, 403 Court St., Bturlington, Iowa. 
Cedar Rapids—A. James Murray, '60, 3701 Kencrest Drive, N.E., Cedar Rapids, low^. 
Des Moines—Paul C. Eide, '52, 403 Scairitics Bldg., Des Moines 9, Iowa. 
Dubuque—Rev. William Kunsch, '37, Our Lady of Seven Dolors Rectory, • Fcstina, Iowa. 
Sioux-Land •— Raj-mond B. Duggan, '43, 3244 Jackson, Sioux City 4, Iowa. 
Tri'Cilies (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Moline)—John L. Bush, '52, 1609 Central Ave., Bcttendorf, Iowa. 
KANSAS 

Eastern Kansas—^T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. Saiina—^John C. Browne, '51, 5th & Court Sts., Clay Center, Kansas. »7cAi/o—George A. Schu-ara, '25, 500 Orpheum Bldg., Wichita 2, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY 

Romano L. Mazzoli, *54, 415 Eastern Park^ray, Louis\*ilic, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 

XeuJ Orleans-—PicTTC V. Miller, '59, 911 Perc Marquette Bldg., New Orleans 12, Louisiana. 
Northern Louisiana—George J. Des­pot, *45, 517 Market, Shrcveport, La. 
MAINE 

WiUiam M. Salter. '^7, 34 Wndsor Ave., Augusta, Mainc-
MARYLAND 

Baltimore—^William L. Gaudrcau, '53, Professional Bldg., 330 N. Charles St., Baltimore 1, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS 

Berkshire County—Frank M. Linehan, '45, 29 Burr Dr., Dalton, Mass. Boston—Cornelius Fowler, '47, 44 Gailord Street, Melrose 76, Mass. 
Pioneer Valley—TJanici J. O'Connell, '22, U P>nchone Rd., Holyoke, .Mass. 
MICHIGAN 

Battle Cr«i—Raymond R. Allen, '40, 409 Orchard PI., Battle Creek, Mich. 
Berrien County — Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, NHes, ifich. 
Blue Water District — William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. 
Z7Mr4orn—George C. Bail, '49, 7746 .Orchard, Dearborn, Mich. 7J«roi(—John R. Panelli, '49, 22750 West 8 Xnle Rd., Detroit 19, Mich. Flint — Walter G. Nagcl, '56, I92I Castle Lane, Flint, Mich. 
Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn, '40, Wright S Zinn, Michaels Bldg., Ironwood, Mit±. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
—James B. Nachteball, '51, 1031 Truxton, N.E., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Hiawathaland •— Donald T. Trotlier, '44, 604 Ludinglon St., Escanaba, Mich. 
Jackson — C>Til J. Hartman, '23, 612 Webb St., Jackson, Mich. 
Kalamazoo — Joseph O'Kecfe, '44, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 1?
Syracuse—See "Central New York." 

O'Kccfe Motor Sales, 433 W. 
Lansing—Robert H. Mooney, Jr., '52 2329 Cumberland Rd., Lansing 6 .Mich. 
Jfoiiro*—Hugh J. Laughna, '40, 158: Rivervicw, Monroe, Mich. Muskegon — James Morse, '57, 233! Vincent Rd., Muskegon, Mich. Saginaw Valley — Gerald E. Carroll, '46, 2124 Sixth St., Bay City, Mich! 
Top oj Michigan — Edward L. Molo­ney, '17, 416 East State St. Che-bo>gan, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 
Tu^n Cities — Lawrence W. Shearon, '58, 2820 N. Huron St., St. Paul 13, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI 
William H. MBcr, '30, 755 Gillespie PI., Jackson, Miss. 
MISSOURI 
Kansas City—George J. Higgins, '53, c/o Employers Mutual of Wiscon­sin, 210 W. Tenth St., Kansas City, -Mo. 
St. Louis — Herman L. Kricgshauser, '54, 11700 Serema Dr., St. Loub 31, Mo. 
MONTANA 
Bernard Grainey, *43, 906—11 Ave., Helena, Montana. 
NEBRASKA 
Omaha and Council Bluffs—James .\. Buckley, '53, 4315 Shiriey, Omaha, -Veb. 
NEW JERSEY 
Central — Thomas F. Kenneally, '30, Box 257, JCddlebush, X.J. 
New Jersey Shore — George A. Baris­cillo, Jr., '44, 416 Burlington Ave., Biadley Beach, N.J. 
Xew Jersey-R. Bruce Dold, '53, 9 Femdiff Terr., Glen Ridge, N.J. South Jersey — James B. Carson, '56, 
624 Clinton Ave., Haddonfield, N.J. 
NEW MEXICO 
Richard R. Everroad, '41, 2323 Mor­row Rd., N.E., Albuquerque, N.M. 
NEW YORK .4/6<iny—Frank E. O'Brien, '58, 99 Brookline Ave., Albany, N.V. Buffalo—Robert C. Weber, '49, 103 Colony Ct., Buffalo 26, N.Y. 
Cf-nlro/—James F. Walter,' '48, 101 Merman Dr., S^Tacuse, N.Y., 13214. 
CoWeii CiVWe—James F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. 
.Mid-Hudson Valley—ima C. O'Neill, '56, Titusville Road, Rt. No. 2, Poughkecpsic, N.Y. 
Mohawk Valley — L. Daniel Callan. '49, 62 Pearl St., New Hartford, N.Y. 
New York C;»j> —Edward B. Fitzpat­rick, Jr., '54, 333 Emory Rd., Mineola, N.Y. 
Rochester — James S. Doyle, '54, 19 East Ave., Honeoye Falls, N.Y. Schenectady—Robert B. Piorkowski, '54,9 Oak Hill Dr., Scotia 2, N.Y. 

Water St., Kalamazoo, Mich. 
La Crojje—Donald F. Sieger, '52, 139 

Southern Tier—Frank F. O'Brien, TENNESSEE '34, 201 Federation Bldg., Elmira. 
OKLAHOMA 
S. 11th St., La Crosse, ^Visc 

Oklaliotna City—^John A. Hobbs, '55. Chattanooga — Herbert J. Hailc, Jr., .*f«rrfn—Augustus H. Slange, '27, 102 N-Y. 2529 N.W. 51, Oklahoma City 12, '55, W. C. Teas Co., 1212 Mc-
S. Prospect St., Merrill, Wise. 

Triple Cities — Joseph P. Gallovvav. OUa. Callie Ave., Chattanooga, Tenn. 
Milwaukee—Thomas L. Mulcahy, '57, *51, 29 Norman Rd. (MR97), Tato—Marion J. Btikc, '33, 709 Oil Afempfitf—John M. Reynolds, *56, 409 7349 N. Lombardy Rd., itilwau-Binghamton, N.Y. Capital Bldg., Tulsa, Okla. Cecilia Dr., Memphis, Tenn. 

kee 17, \«sc. 
Northwest Wiscottsin—Ben M. Siri-
OREGON TEXAS 

NORTH CAROLINA anni, Jr., '60, 229 McKinley Ave, 
H. Paul New-man, '55, 13145 S.E. Bn/to —Donald R. Hanis, '58, 4225 
Eau Claire, Wise. 

Donald J. Kclsey, '48, II15 West-Glenwood, Dallas 5, Texas. 
Kuehn Rd., MiUraukie 22, Oregon. South Central—'Bcmani S. Mixtacki, lidge Rd., Greensboro, N.C. 
B Paio—Edivard T. Jennings, '53, 312 
'50, 5400 Flamingo Rd., Madison, PENNSYLVANIA WUc 
Olira Circle, EI Paso, Texas. Houston — Alfred C. DeCrane, Jr.,. NORTH D.AKOTA '53, 4939 Valkeith, Houston 35, 
Central Pennsylvania—Dr. George W. Southeastern — Edwin £ . Raymond, Katter, '41, U.S. Bank Bldg., 
Jr., '49, 2820 21 St., Racine, ^Vise 

WiUbm Daner, '53, HOG S. Highland Texas. Acres, Bismarck N.D. Johnstown, Pa. Midland-Odessa — John L. CHem, Eri"«—James P. LejTlon, '49, 268 Hen­'37, 1001 W. 25, Odessa, Texas. WYOMING 
Rio Grande Valley—Rxibcit Azil, '49, 
ley Road, Philadelphia 51, Pa. Patrick H. Meenan, '49, Midwest 
1205 W. Elizabeth St., Browns%-ille, 
Wnrrijiiirg—Donald R. Meek, '50, 520 Bldg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 
OHIO 

Texas. Akron—William I. Z^ammcis. '53, 455 San Antonio — Leo J. Paradise, *49, 
Park Ave., New Cumberland, Pa. Hillwood Dr., Akron 20, Ohio. Lehigh Valley—Ercalo J. Spinosa, '57, 119 Timberland Dr., San Antonio FOREIGN CLUBS 1124 Kearney St., .Mlentown, Pa. 9, Texas. 
Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, C.S.C., '24, Moreau House, 28 Zin-Conlon—Robert L. Jolict, '51, 4610 
Yale Ave., X.W., Canton 9, Ohio. UTAH 
'41, 321 Market St., Browns\-ille, dabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. Cincinnati—^J. Barr^* Savage, '54, 1701 Don J. Roney, '58, 320 East Fourth, 
Pa. Canada — Paul H. LaFiamboise, '34, 
Salt Lake City 8, Utah. 

Kings\ray, Cincinnati, Ohio. Philadelphia—}ima P. Leydon, 268 400 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. Clei-ttcnd—^Joseph E. Sotak, Jr., '40. Henley Rd., Philadelphia 51, Pa. ChUe — Rev. Francis A. Provenzano, 
VIRGINIA Pittsburgh — Donald W. Bebenek, '52. 
3340 Rumson Rd., Cleveland C.S.C., '42, St. George's College, 
Leo F. Burke, '44, 900 Blanton Ave., 
Aven, Pedro de Valdivia 1423, San­Heights, 18. Ohio. 1513 Bcrger Bldg., Kttsbuish 19, Richmond, Va. 

tiago, Chile. 

Columbus — John J. Dilenschncidcr, Pa. ri"</«<i<Kir—Phillip L. Russo, '49, 8033 Ecuador—io\m ^focller, '47, P.O. Box '53, 2555 Beri>7n Rd., Columbus Scranton — C. Richard Mai^hall, '51, Wcdgcwood Dr., Norfolk, Va. 
213, Quito, Ecuador. 21, Ohio. Conncll Bldg., Scranton 3, Pa. 
Germany — Charles A. Hickman, '58, 

WASHINGTON 
Dnjion—Patrick J. Foley. '54. 501 Wilkes-Barre — Raymond J. Sobota, Schcllingstrasse No. 81, Munich, Spokane—Dr. James P. Rolchford, 

Tliird Nat'l Bldg., Dajion 2, Ohio. '49, 760 Miners Bank, Wilkcs-Barrc, Germany. 
'49, West 115 9th Avenue, Spokane 
Hamillon~^JcTOtne A. Ryan, '41, 353 Pa. 

4, Washington. Manila — Conrado Sanchez, Jr., '54, South D St., Hamilton, Ohio. WUliamsport — Joseph Orso, Jr., '55, It'eslem — Frederick N. Hoover, '43, 83 Mayoa St., Quezon Cit^•, Phil­Mansfield—I.CO J. Scanlon. '30, 121 641 Oliver St., Williamsport, Pa. 2814—40 Ave., W., SeatUe 99, ippines. Pearl Street, Crestline, Ohio. RHODE ISLAND Wash. Mexico City—Tclmo De Landcro, '37, Northwestern — James W. Myers, '38, Eugenio Sue No. 220, Mexico City, 
r\ND SOUTHEASTERN 
230 E. Wayne St., Cclina, Ohio. NVEST VIRGINIA Mexico. Ohio ro/;o—Robert R. Sincavich,'40. MASSACHUSETTS Thomas E. Kennell, '56, 1007 Bel­Panama—Lorenzo Romagoza, '45, Box Philip B. Toole, '52, 20 Wintciberry 
134 Giant .-^vc.. Wheeling, W. Va. mont, Charleston, W.Va. 
3393, Panama, Rep. of Panama. 

Ln., Seekonk, Mass. 2603 Easm-ood Dr., SanduskT, Ohio. Box 2063, Clarksburg, W.Va. 
Sandusky •— Richard C. Hohler, '47, Central — John D. Julian, '40, P.O. 
Peru—Enrique Lulli, '45, Cuzco 440, Tigin — Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 
SOUTH CAROLINA Lima, Peru. Sycamore St., *nSin, Ohio. Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore \VISCONSIN Puerto Rico — Paul McManus, '34 Toledo — H. Joseph Kalbas. '56, 541 Dr., West%vood, Charleston, S.C. Fox River Valley—Robert J. Simkins, (Vice-Prcs.), Calle Earie No. 4, Tennyson PI., Toledo 10, Ohio. Condado, Santurce, Puerto Rico. 
'56. 1137 W. Lorain St., Appleton, Youngstouni—Charles J. McCrudden, SOUTH DAKOTA Wise Rome — Vincent G. MeMoon, '34 *57, 124 Prcstttick, Youngstou-n. Black HSIj—Bernard Gira, '10, Cus­Green Bay—Robert W. SchaeEer, '53, (Secretary), Palazzo Brancacdo, Ohio, ter, South Dakota. 2522 Martlia St., Green Bay, Wise Largo Brancaccio, 82, Rome, Italy. 
— COME ALL — BRING THE CHILDREN — The new president and secretary of the Notre BRING A PICNIC BASKET — BRING YOUR Dame Club of Boston are CORNELIUS (NEIL) CAR" as Baltimore Clubbers made plans to drive to FOWLER, *47, and CHARLES F. COLTOX, '29. Gettysburg in the Notre Dame Club Cara\*an on —CH.ARLES F. COLTO.N', '29, Secy. Saturday Morning, June 29, Arrived in Gettysburg in time to participate in the Centennial Mass com­
Buffalo 
Clubs 
memorating Father Corby's Absolution given to the 

"Fighting 69th" Battalion of the Irish Brigade. DAN MAHONEY, *50 \vas the consulting di­No specific plans were made for the afternoon rector for the May 24th meeting in the Hotel Alabama other than an informal, "bring-your-ovvn-basket" Lenox. HOWARD BURKE, Law '53, was chair­
type picnic, so that families had an opportunity man. President, BOB WEBER, '49 conducted his 1On May 1 the Notre Dame Club at Alabama cele­to \'isit the battlegrounds^ monuments, and numer­first meeting as president, and it was an im­brated Universal Notre Dame Night at the Vestana ous objects of historical interest. portant one. We finally adopted a constitution and ^ Country Club vnth a dinner party preceded by a it has been approved by the University. 
cotJctail hour. Guest speaker for the evening yvss 
ED (MOOSE) KRAUSE, who brought us all up Our annual Night at the Raceway was held 
Bosfon 

June 20th. Consulting director PAUL B.ALLING, graduates, former students and guests attended the to date on things at Notre Dame-Tilty Notre Dame 
REV. RICHARD H. SULLIVAN, C.S.C, presi­'53 appointed ED COSGROVE, '56, AL KEM-festive occasion. 
dent of StonchiU College, North Easton, was chosen NIT2ER, '49, and JOHN LaDUC4, '36 as co-as "Man of the Year for 1963" by the Notre Dame chairmen. These men were responsible for a record JOHN A. O'BRIEN '51, president, %\-as the master Club of Boston. The selection was announced at a number of participants. 
of ceremonies. The guest ol honor was the Most gathering of Notre Dame alumni as part of the an­A Golf Outing was scheduled for July 26 at ' Rev. Joseph A. Durick, D.D., Auxiliary- Bishop nual nationwide obser\'ance of Universal Notre the Erie Downs Country Club in Fort Erie, On­of the Diocese of Mobile-Birmingham. Among tliose present were: DR. LOU REICH, '51, JACK 

Dame Night. tario, Canada. With two ex-presidents handling LUCAS, *50, TOM BOEHLING, '52 (Sec-Trcas.). 
Father Sulli\*an was cited for *'ycars of devo­the details this outing should not be missed. J.^CK HANK McCORlkL^CK '52, ED ^XTINHEIMER, 
tion to the tcadiing of our youth, administrative CONSIDINE, '49 is consulting director, and '34, THOMAS C. NAJJAR. JR., '53, ED A2AR, 
contributions to a grateful community and extra­GEORGE FERRICK, '41 is chairman. '47, JOSEPH XL HAGERTY, '25, NICK GRAF-ordinary- dedication to the highest ideals." Arrangements have not been completed for our FEO. '60, DE.\N1S T. PENN'Y, '61, NEIL J. 
Since 1958, Father SuIIi\-an, who celebrates this September meeting. However, consulting director WORDEN, '54 (specbl guest), JOHN A. O'BRIEN, 
year the 25th anniversary of his ordination, has BILL LAWLESS, '44 has appointed GENE O'CON­'51 (President) and REV. PETER SHEEH.\N, '49 
presided over the steady grouth of StonchiU College. NOR, '56 as chairman. (Club Chaplain). A native of Indianapolis, Indiana, he entered Holy —JAMES F. a\SEY, '44, Secy. .; Cross at the University of Notre Dame. He later 
It was a wonderful evening. Many of our dis­
studied at Gregorian University, Rome, where he 
trict alumni were unable to attend or we would was awarded his licentiate in philosophy; he re­Calumet Region have had about ten more present. 

ceived his Doctorate in Philosophy from Lai-al Uni­Notre Dame fans and alumni heard plans and —REV. PETER SHEEH.-Of, Chaplain 
versity in Quebec. prospects of the new Irish head coach, HUGH DE­.After ordination to the priesthood at Notre Dame VORE, described by two of his staff, D.\VE HURD in 1938 he taught at the University. In 1942 he and JERRY STOLTZ, at the annual sports stag hcic* 
Baltimore 

became noricc master at North Dartmouth, Massa­at St. Michael's hall in Hammond by the Notn 
The Gett>*sburs Trip committee (Pres. BILL chusetts, and later superior of the Holy Cross Dame club of the Calumet Region. Principa KEARV, V.P. TOM SHINE, Treas. RICH JACOB, Fathers Seminary at North Easton, and assistant speaker was Chicago .-Vmerican Sports Wriit and Secy. BOB BL.AIKIE) advised: "COME ONE provincial of ihc Eastern Province. James Enright. 
18 Notre Dame AlumnuSy August-September^ 1963 
CHICAGO — More than 1,000 Chicagoland alumni and friends turned out for the largest Universal Notre Dame Night diimer in history, held April 30 at the Conrad Hilton Hotel. At the speakers' table (l.-r.) are: Pat Shannon, 2nd vice-president; Hugh Devore, head football coach; Art Conrad, Club president; Howard V. Phalin, ND Man of the Year; Jack Barry, retiring president and chairman; Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., principal speaker; Leo G. Carroll, winner of the "Decency in Entertainment" award; Paul Fullmer, 1st vice-president: Rev. John Van Wolvlear, C.S.C., who delivered the invocation. At center Vice-President Fullmer presents the Decency award to actor Carroll, portraycr of Father Fitzgibbon in the "Going My Way" TV series, who blamed television's rating mania for the dearth of family entertainment. At right Father Hesburgh congratulates Man of the Year Phalin, donor of the "Christ the Tca:hcr" mural to adorn the new Memorial Library, and President Conrad, for the largest and warmest Notre Dame Night tri'sute he has witnessed in his 13 years' travels. 
Chicago 

Our Universal Notre Dame Night dinner was the largest UND Night in history with nearly 1,000 per­sons in attendance at the International Room o( the Conrad Hilton Hotel. It was a wonderful turnout and one that made everyone in the room feci a little bit more proud of his alma mater. More than 86 per cent of our 4,000 alumni contributed more than 3 mUHon dollars to the Challenge drive. 
The facts arc these: FATHER HESBURGH was the main speaker . . . Leo G. Carroll, veteran actor who has starred recently as **Topper" and "Father Fitzgibbon" on the Going My Way series, received the "Dccenc>- in Entertainment" award . . . ART CONRAD took over from JACK BARRY^ who was general chairman of the dinner, as president for the coming year .. . I moved in as first vice president, PAT SHANNON as second vice president, BERT MET2GER as sccreiao-, and CHUCK FALKENBERG as treas­urer. 
Monday, Aug. 12, is the date! JOE ARCHIBALD is the guy! 
This year's golf outing and sports night dinner will be held Aug. 12 at Elmhurst Countn' Club with genial Joe as chairman. You can count on a full day of fun, a tremendous dinner, sparkling program and a long prize list. 
One of the best speakers' tables in recent years has been scheduled and everything is *'AOK" for another terrific outing. One of the biggest com­mittees in history has worked long and hard to proWde club members with a topflight summer outing. .A host of Notre Dame sports greats will be on hand to spin a few yarns. 
Immediate Past President JACK BARRY, who still is receiving plaudits for the strides the Club made during his year in the president's chair, hosted a board of directors meeting at Buttcrfield Countrx' Club on June 20. Special remembrances were given to directors completing their three­vcar terms. They included ED GARVEY, TERRY BRENNAN, FRED GORE, CLIFF NOONAN, FRANK O'DO^VD, JOE PAGLIARI, BILL REYNOLDS, JOE Z^VERS and NORM BARRY. Falkenbers will continue on the board as newly elected treasurer; and Reynolds as campus chairman. 
President .ART CONRAD presented Barr>- with a mounted gavel as a memento of his work. In ad­dition, Conrad and PAUL FULLMER, first vice-president, presented Barr>' with an "official" proclamation commissioning him to continue pro­ducing topflight Club events during the next two years while they took the bows! 
The new oflicers renewed their pledge to con­

tinue Barr>-*s "new frontier" planning, which Con­
rad voiced at the Universal Notre Dame Night 
Dinner. The entire board wishes to thank the 
membership for making this past UND Night din­
ner the largest in the histor>- of the University's 
alumni organization. It was, indeed, fitting that a 
thousand people turn out to greet F.ATHER HES­
BURGH, who reciprocated with one of his truly 
inspirational talks. 
Incidentally, the officers for the coming year are: 

President, Art Conrad, who is vice-president and 
a director of FHck-Reedy Corp., electrical equip­
ment manufacturer; First Vice-President, Paul 
Fullmer, assistant to the president of the Lawrence 
H. Selz Organization, Chicago public relations firm; Second Vice-President, PAT SHANNON, at­torney and tax consultant; Secretary', BERT METZGER, general sales manager of retail sales for Bowman Dairv' Co.; and Treasurer, CH.ARLIE FALKENBERG, attorney. 
THOMAS C. DONOVAN will serve as honorary president. GEORGE ROSS has been appointed membership chairman to replace FRED GORE. Outgoing President Jack Barry and PAUL CAR­ROLL, 1962-63 president of the Chicago Club on campus, will sen'c one-year terms on the board. 
Elected to three-year terms were: TOM CAREY, attorney; BILL FAY, president, William Fay Sc Co,; FRED HOLZL, John WIson &. Associates life insurance agency; BOB LEANDER, president. Mystic Adhesive Products; JOHN D. MOYN.AHAN, JR., group super\"isor. Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.; JOE RIGALI, SR., president Daprato Studios; and JOHN SQALLAN, Pullman Standard Co. 
Let's all get down to as manv games as we can to back the Flghung Irish and HUGHIE DEVORE, who received a standing ovation at UND Night, and build enthusiasm for an even bigger Rockne Memorial Dinner in December! 
—PAUL FULLMER, '55 

Cincinnati 
The Cincinnati Club had elections of officers recently and the results were: President, BARRY S.AVAGE; Vice-President, TOM ISPHORDING; Sccrctarv, P.AUL F. KELLEY; and Treasurer, ED­;VIN H. DAAVSO.N. 
—PAUL F. KELLEY, Sec>-. 

Cleveland 
Election of oflicers for the forthcoming year was held at Rohr's Restaurant on .April 22, 1963. The 
following men were elected: JOSEPH E. SOT.AK, 
JR., president; RICHARD H. MILLER, vice-presi­
dent; DENNIS F. BUTLER, secretary; and T. 
FRANK NOVAK, treasurer. 
CLAYTON LEROUX, chairman of the Scholar­

ship Committee, announced that five students from 
the Cleveland area are presently recelWng partial 
scholarship from the Cleveland Club. 
JOHN CHAPLA and GEORGE KERVER an­

nounced the Husband and Wife Retreat, August 
2-4 at Our Lady of Fatlma Retreat House on the 
Notre Dame Campus. 
JOHN J. REIDY replaced THOALAS BYRNE as a member of the Man of the Year .A^vard Com­mittee. The committee is composed of the fol­lowing: CLAYTON LEROUX, PAT GANNY, KARL MARTERSTECK, JOHN CHAPLA, JIM COLLERAN, FRANCIS PAYNE, ROBERT DOWD and THO%LAS BREMER. The Man of the Year Award was presented at this meeting to DON 
C. AflLLER (member of the famous Four Horse­men) by FRANCIS PAYNE, recipient of last year's award. Jimmie Lee, member of the National Olympic and Cleveland .Athletic Club was guest speaker. Our congratulations to Don on his well-deser\*ed award! 
—JOHN P. COYNE, Secy. 

Colorado Springs 
I speak for myself, as well as all the mem­bers of the Colorado Springs Notre Dame Club, when I say that wc ^vere deeply honored to have FR. JOHN A. O'BRIEN as our guest speaker on Notre Dame Night. I had the opportunity to speak to several members of our Club and several guests, all of whom thought, as I do, that Father's speech was particularly Inspiring. 
—OTTO K. HILBERT, Pres. 

Columbus 
The Notre Dame Club of Columbus, Ohio, celebrated Universal Notre Dame night with a dinner at Presutti's Villa on .April 20. After-dinner festivities for the 95 alumni and friends in attendance were sparked by the wit of L. C. "BUD" MURPHY, '33, master of ceremonies for the evening, who Introduced the principal speaker, Joseph VanHeyde. Probate Judge of Fraaklia Coun­ty. Judge VanHeyde, tvhose son, Stephen, will be a senior at Notre Dame this fall, gave an in­teresting talk on Notre Dame's contribution to the Civil ^Var. ROBERT J. KOSYDAR '53, re­tiring president of the Club, gave special thanks to 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Ausust-SeptembeT, 1963 19 
his officers, \nce-Prcs!dent MIKE SOVXLOX "3!. Secretary- JACK DILENSCHNEIDER '33, and Treasurer DON WXILAND '32, and rewcwed the events of the year. ART ULRICH *48, tireless jaclcHjf.all-trades for the organization, received the Notre Dame Man of the Year .Auard. The new-officers of the club for the coming year were then installed: Treasurer JOHN.VY JOHNSON '-H, Secretarv ERNIE KLETZLY '37, \nce-Presidcnt DON WETLAND '32, and President JACK DILEX­SCHNEIDER '33. On behalf of the Joyce Sdiolar­ship Committee, Bob Kosydar announced that sdiolarships covering all expenses of room, board, books, tuition and transportation for four years at Notre Dame were aw-ardcd to six Columbus boys who will enter the University this fall. Wc now- have nine boys attending the University on the Joyce grants wliich are limited to scholars from the Columbus. Ohio, area. 
Special thanks are due to JOHN FLEN-TZ '31 

and his wife Mary-, who constituted the welcoming 
committee and handled seating arrangements. Talk­
ing over reunion plans at the dinner were five 
vear men JI.M MURRAY, BOB KOLOPUS, MIKE 
C.\NT^\-ELL, FRANK McGRAW, and BUD 
TRAPP, all Class of '38; as well as old timers 
BOB KOSYDAR and J.-\CK DILENSCHNEIDER 
'33. ART ULRICH '48. DICK K.-\SBERG '48, 
DR. TO.M HUGHES '38. "BUD" MURPHY '33, 
JOHN .MURPHY and ED .MORLARITY '28. Other 
alumni in attendance were: TOM ROCHE '39. 
ALEX GLOCKNER '27. WALT NOON.-VX, DR. 
TOM MEYERS '51, CHARLIE WEILBACHER 
'41. AL RrrCHER '31. PAT C.ANTWELL '32, 
JERRY 0'BRIE.V, -MARTi' WEIDEMAN '42. DR. 
JOE HUGHES '31, GEORGE HUGHES, BOB 
HOOFSTETTER, BOB OVERM.^N, ED C-VNT­
WELL '24. LEO KLETZLY "31, DICK FALTER; 
HERM BITTNER '24. who operates Suzie' Smart 
Shoppc and JACK CANNON '30 who operates 
Cannon's Flower Cart, both of whom supplied 
"early bird" prizes; DICK RYAL, DXS CAN­
NON '30, -\L MUTH '31, and our Duquesnr beer 
distributor, FR.AXK J.\EGER '33. 
Our meeting this year was without the wit of our hard-w-orking alumnus JOHN IGOE '28, who had gone to Cleveland to attend the funeral of his mother. .\11 alumni arc asked to remember Mrs. Igoc in their prayers. 
—ERNIE KLETZLY '37, Secy-. 

Connecticut Valley 
You haven't heard from us lately because we've 
been busy. 
1963 starled ofT wUh a bang in Januar>' when 

we decided to invite our Notre Dame Glee Club to 
Hartford to present a joint concert with St. Joseph 
Collece of \Vcsl Hartford. After four weeks of 
hard work bv JIM FLAHERTY, LOU COLA\''EC­
CHIO. ROGER TREMBLAY, TED PAULDING, 
and FLOYD RICHARDS, a highly successful concert 
was presented to a capacity throng Februarv* 9. 
The club is greatly indebted to Sister M. John 
Bosco, music advisor at St. Joseph College, for her 
endless inspiration and support. XD's "singing am­
bassadors" made a wonderful impression on cver>*­
one they met. 
One hundred alumni and wives gathered at 
Tlic Waverly Inn April 21 to commemorate Uni­
versal Notre Dame Night. W'c were most fortunate 
to have DR. GEORGE N. SHUSTER as our guest. 
Dr. Shustcr gave a wonderful talk and rekindled 
cvcr>'onc's pride and confidence in Notre Dame. 
DAVID C. BAGLEY '42 was named "Man of 
The Year." Dave, an attorney, was cited for out­
standing service to his country, the City of Hart­
ford and Notre Dame. He did a great job for 
us as chairman of our "Challenge"' drive. 
At our annual meeting the following were elected to office: President, BOB McGOLDRICK '56; Vice-President, LOU COLAVECCHIO '54; Secretarv-. DON FbSKETT '40; and Treasurer, ROGER TREKfBL-AY '50. Tlie following were named to the Board of Governors: JIM FLAHERTY '53, and LARRY WOODS '48, JOHN ROBINSON '28, FRANK AHERN '27, and TIM MURPH\' '24. 
Early in September wc will have our "Farewell Freshman Dinner." This is always a rousing send­off for our future alumni. We are all quite c\citcd here about the Syracuse-Notre Dame game which will be held Thanksgiving noon in Nci\' York Cit\-. We hope to have a drawing in conjunction with this event to establish a scholarship fund. 
If you liave any ideas that might help our club please give mc a call. Beginning with the next issue this column will be written by Don Foskctt. I hope Don has better luck than I did in meet­ing the deadline. 
—BOB McGOLDRICK '56. Pres. 

Dallas 
The Notre Dame Club of Dallas held its summer partv at the Knights of Columbus Hall on June 
17. The parly was planned by DON HARRIS and WARREN HIGGINS to offer fun and \'aricty, with the highlights of the evening being swimming, bingo, and dancing. There were prizes given for bingo, and It seems that the luck of the Irish fol­lowed only a few, as there were a few repeat winners. It was good to see the active participa­tion shown by students now attending the Uni­versitv. 
—GE.\E KERVIN, Sec>*. 

Dearborn 
GEORGE TOBIN entertained members at the annual St. Patrick's Day dinner with movies of the Championship Packer-Giants play-ofT and diair­manned the entire event. Officers for 1963-4 were announced: GEORGE BALL, president; GEORGE TOBIN, vice-president; and R^VY DEF.AUAV, secre­tary-treasurer. Members present also enjoyed corned beef and cabbage, beer and cards. The event was held at the Warren Valley Country- Club. 
The same setting was used for the Communion Breakfast on Mav 19 following Mass at St. Bcrna­dctte Church. F.ATHER MEYER of Sacred Heart Parish, Dearborn, delivered a forceful talk on laymen's responsibilities in a changing world in a light, witty manner enjoyed by all present. Newly elected President GEORGE BALL presented DICK KING with his second past president award. 
Annual picnic plans were made at the June 7 meeting held at GEORGE TOBIN's home. PAUL KLUDING and RAY DEF.\UW will co-chairman the event on June 30. The April and Mav meetings were held at the DICK KING and JERRY SARB residences, respectively. 
Tlie Family Picnic was held all day June 30 at Perrin Field with refreshments and games su­pervised bv co-cliairmen RAY DEF.-\UW and P.\UL KLUDING. 
—RAY DEFAUW, Secy. 

Decatur 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES .ARMSTRONG brought to our Universal Notre Dame Night a unique stature. Being president of the .American Alumni Council (national association of alumni secretaries), Jim was sought by the Millikin University Alumni Association, who provided wide press coverage. .Also Jim was interviewed with chairman NICK NEIERS '58 and \^ce-President JOHN FOY '34 on station WSOY and with President A. C. MOIUN, JR. '48, on WTVP. Our attendance vvas an all-time high. 
RICH MCDONAL D '56 chairmanned our Annual Golf Outing at The Country* Club of Decatur. TO.M MAHONEY '49. Springfield, III., AL L.\N­DOLT '50, Virginia, 111., and FR. JOHN STEW­ART '54, .Alton, III., traveled the greatest distances. Mahoney won mc (real luck!) against BILL DOWNING (Law '57) and Landolt, who pro­ceeded to win low gross. Neiers won (?) high gross. We all won a few "cool ones" and a beautifully served dinner. Having spent five years in Vatican City, Fr. Stewart was brought to his feel and widely interrogated on the papal election. Other members present were: A. C. MORAN, JR., 
M. J. BEAUDINE, JR., JOE DONOVAN, P. DOWNING, J. F. FOY, G. H. HUBBARD, JR., 
B. B. LIVERGOOD, J. J. McN.A\LARA, B. A. MARTY, R. R. UHL, and J. A. UHL. Honorarv members present: G. H. HUBBARD, J. D. Mc-N.AMAR.A, E. C. McDONALD, A. C. MOR.AN, SR., G. SHEEHAN and R. E. UHL. 
—STEPHEN G. GRALIKER, '42, Scc>-. 

Detroit 
Tlic .Annual Stag Golf Day, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, was held July 8 at Oakland Hills Countrv- Club. 
Dinner, also at Oakland Hills, featured REV. JAMES MORAN, C.S.C., Coach HUGH DEVORE, GUS CIFELLI, BILL DADDIO, and other guests. BILL M. HENNEGHAN and TOM P. MOORE were co-Chairmen. 
President JOHN R. PANELLI has announced this coming vear's agenda of activities and respec­tive cliairmcn: Fall Kick-OfT Party. LOU BOSCO and BOB CRONIN; Communion Breakfast, BOB BOGG; Christmas Dance, JACK MURRAY; Re­treat, JIM MOTSCHALL and JACK BREEN; Membership Activity, LARRY SMITH, JIM .MO­LONEY and JOHN P. O'NEIL; Universal Notre Dame Night, chairman to be appointed. 
Eastern Indiana 
Our belated universal Notre Dame party was held on Monday, May 20, in two sections, golf at Delaware Country Club, and dinner at the Fla­mingo Supper Club. 
The retiring officers were BILL CRAIG, president: BILL CRONIN, vice-president (he succeeded him­self) ; DICK GREENE, secretary; and BOB PRESTON, treasurer. The officers for the com­ing year are JAMES HALLIGAN, president; BILL CRONIN, vice-president; JIM CARNES, treasurer; and JACK HYNES, secretar>- (that would be the writer). 
The Notre Dame man of the year award was presented to JAMES HxVLLIG.AN in recognition of his long ser\icc to Notre Dame and local alumni affairs. TTic speaker was FRANK QUINN, who played center on the basketball team in 1941 and 1942. Frank gave us a fine talk (and I would recommend him as a speaker for any Notre Dame affair) on his obser\-ations based upon the old-timers' game; and he also read and explained the 
BIRMINGHAM—Alabama's Universal Notre Dame PHght observance got under way soon after this spirited conversation by some of the head table personalities: (from left) Most Rev. Joseph A. Durick, D.D., of the Mobile-Birmingham Diocese; Rev. 
Peter Sheehan, '49, chaplain; Edw-ard W. Krause, Univeraty director of athletics, 
guest speaker for the occasion; and John A. O'Brien, '51, president of the Club. 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 
situation behind the now famous FR. HESBURGH letter concerning the "Winter of Discontent." 
Those in attendance were TOM ADAMS, BILL CRAIG, JIM HALLIGAN, DAVE ^VILSON, MIKE MURRAY, BOB PRESTON, JIM CARNES, ED DIXON, JOE BECK, SKIP McDONALD, BUTCH DEVAULT, CARL BRATTON. JOE HART, NORB HART, and TOM CANNON. 
Incidentally, it turns out that JIM CARNES, our new treasurer, and FRANK QUINN, our speaker, were not only teammates on the basket­ball team but were also roommates at Notre Dame. It goes without saying that they had a good long session after the meeting. 
—JOHN C. HYNES, Secy. 

Erie 
Universal Notre Dame Night in Erie, .April 16, 1963. was a great success and enjoyed by all. HUGH DEVORE, the main speaker, brought us all up to date concerning the 1963 Fighting Irish. Rt. Rev. Msgr. Ennts A. Connelly, Pastor of Blessed Sacrament Church in Eric, gave the grace before meals. All of us here in Erie congratulate Msgr. Connelly on his elevation to the Mon­signori. Rev. Louis Puscas of Gannon College gave the Benediction. 
Among those who attended Universal Xolre Dame Night were: Messrs. & Mmes. JAMES DWYER *37, THOMAS GALLAGHER '55, HOWARD ESSICK »41, JOSEPH BARBER '35, ROBERT BARBER, MO; JOHN YOUNG '51, JOHN McCORMICK, JR. '53, LEO BRUGGER, SR. *34, LEO BRUGGER, JR. '61, JACK BERT­GES, Honorary '17, HERBERT KERN '54, RICHARD McCORMICK '55, LAWRENCE STADLER '29, TIMOTHY McCORMICK '57, WILLIAM GRANT '47, JOHN McCORMICK, SR., Honorary '17, JOHN LOCHTEFELD '55; ^^^. ANTHONY ZAMBROWSKI '52, JACK PALMI­S.ANO '55, LOUIS SHIOLENO M9, JOSEPH BLAKE '61, MICHAEL McCORMICK '61, PAT­RICK McCORMICK 'M; Dr. & Mrs. ELMER KOHL.MILLER '49, THOMAS BATES '60, ROB­ERT ^VINSCHEL '51, JAMES MAHONEY '51; special guests Joseph Sugart, Dr. A. J. DcSanlis & son, Michael '64, Mr. & Mrs. Hoot Schully, ^fr. &: Mrs. Henry Angelotti & son, Richard '66, Mr. & Mrs. Bill Brabendcr, high-school coach of Rich Arringion. 
Attorney JOE BARBER '36 and family are en­joying t!tese summer months. DON BUSECK 
•50 is busy with his law practice. BILL GRANT *45 is doing quite well and en loving the insurance business. CHARLES WITTMANN '31 is busy fishing, water skiing & keeping up his summer home. JOHN .McCORMICK, PHIL HACGERT\', and JOE STADLER all '53, ventured out to N.D. for their 10th Reunion in June and .while there renewed acquaintances with DICK DAILEY '53. 
JAMES B. D^^TER '37, very busy with his cam­paign, is the Democratic candidate for Judge of the Eric County Orphan's Court. TO.M BARBER '24 is getting to be an awful hard man to' beat on the links this summer. TO.M BATES '60 looks pretty good since he's back from his honeymoon and eating his new wife's cooking. RICH Me* CORMICK '55, still practicing golf in his spare time, seems far away from beating JOE BLAKE '61. Joe is taking lime off from golf so he can get ready to teach school in the near future. Pat McCormick, Ron Vomero, Mike DcSantis, and Dave Stout, all *6i, are the Erie Boys looking forward to their senior year this coming September at Notre Dame. Rich Arrington '65 is doing a fine job for the Fighting Irish. DONALD CRIQUI '62, enjoying his work in South Bend at ^VSBT, is getting quite anxious for the coming football season to begin. LEO CARNEY '30 is lery bus>­at the Bureau of Unemployment in Erie but seems to get enough time off to enjoy the summer months with his familv. 
—LEO J. BRUGGER '61, Sec>-. 

Evansville 
.•\ Bnal catch-up report on the activities of the Evansville Club. 
The club's annual Communion Breakfast last De­cember 9 was highlighted by Msgr. Thomas Clarke's talk on the Ecumenical Council. This year the par­ents were encouraged to bring their children, and this plan was well received — and the children well-behaved. 
On January- 19 the club's annual Holiday Party \vas held at the "Open Gale" in Evansville. This is the only event of the year where the attendance of outside guests is encouraged. •• ­
CALUMET — Among the celebs present at the Calumet Region's Annual Sports Stag were: (I.-r.) David L. Hurd, Notre Dame line coach; Club President Dave Ogren; Tom Lanham, master of ceremonies; Jerry Stoltz, ND backfield assistant; James Enright, "Chicago's American" sportsivriter; and Tony Kuharich, event chairman. 
Evansville joined in the observance of Universal 

Notre Dame Night, holding its annual dinner at the 
Imperial Room of the Jackson House ^fotor Hotel. 
TIic social hour and smorgasbord were followed by 
an address by the evening's speaker, JIM GIB­
BONS of the University's public relations depart­
ment. Jim covered much Notre Dame history, past, 
present and future very thoroughly and very 
cnjoyably. 
New officers elected (sec photo in this issue) arc 

D. P.ATRICK 0'D.\NIEL, president; JOE HAR­RISON, vice-president; and AL HARDING, secre­tar\'-trcasurcr. 
—HENRY C. DEWES 

Flint 
OSMUND (OZZ) KELLY was toastmaster at 

the Universal Notre Dame Night program of the 
Notre Dame Club of Flint. Later, to his surprise, 
he was named as the club's 1963 "Man of the 
Year." 
It was a sneaky way to get Kelly, former Flint 

mayor and postmaster, to attend the meeting at 
Flint Golf Club without arousing his suspicions. 
He later admitted he began wondering about his 
assignment as toastmaster because he wasn't given 
much to do. Then, he said, he saw many of his 
friends and wondered why they would be there. 
About 250 were at the meeting. 
A scroll naming Kelly as the club's "Man of the 

Year" was presented to him by IVAN L. WILES, 
former General Motors vice-president and Buick 
general manager. Wiles is a director of Genesee 
Merchants Bank and Trust Co. Wiles said Kelly 
was " a \ictim of a conspiracy. The only way we 
could get him here tonight was to make him 
toastmaster." 
Wiles said "no a\'alanchc of words is needed to 

portray the life of Ozz Kelly. His record speaks 
for itself. Anything more would be gilding the 
lily. Ozz is a Flint man in the truest sense of the 
word. Calm, modest and with a twinkle in his eye, 
he has served his city, his state and his nation 
in innumerable ways." 
Kelly, executive director of the Manufacturers .•\ssociation of Flint, said he was "vcr>' flattered." WALTER G. NAGEL, president of the Notre 
Dame Club of Flint, introduced Wiles. 
Tuesday's Universal Notre Dame Night pro­gram was the l4th in Flint. It was one of about 180 similar programs for Notre Dame alumni and friends throughout the countr>'. 
REV. JOHN E. WALSH, director of the Notre Dame Foundation and assistant lo the president of the University, told of the expansion of facilities at Notre Dame. 
—LOU GL\MPETRONI 

Fort Lauderdale 
Since our last report things have been happen­ing rapidly. The St. Patrick's Day party i\-as a tremendous success, held at the Governor's Club Hotel in Fort Lauderdale. We had over 300 at­tending to hear Ralph Flanagan and his band in addition to the McCormicks, a well-known comedy team. DICK GORMAN, '57, was chairman and along u-ith BILL MAUS, JR., '53, did a splendid job. 
The Fort Lauderdale and Palm Beach clubs teamed up for oiir first international convention held at Jack Tor Hotel, West End Island, Grand 
Bahama. We had 253 in attendance on the package plan and all had a ball. ED "MOOSE" KRAUSI and FATHER J.AMES MORAN represented th< University and gave wonderful talks at dinner on Saturday evening. From arrival on Friday, AprJ] 26, when all were greeted by hotel representativea and handed a typical island refreshment, through Sunday, April 28, fbh fries, fishing tournaments, goli tournaments, elaborate dinners, island dancing and entertainment were the order of the day. The re­action was so intense that the clubs have already reserved dates for next year's convention and have promises from nearly everyone who made the trip to make their reservation early. "Moose" said that it was the most restful and relaxing trip he could remember. WILLARD MOSS, Foundation chairman for this area, was in charge of all the arrangements with JIM DOWNEY of the Pahn Beach Club. Jim was in charge of the golf tournament, and FRANK McGINN, '52, handled the fishing end. DAN DOWNEY of Palm Beach was master of ceremonies for Saturday evening and did a masterful job. DR. BERNARD O'HARA, president of the Palm Beach Club, along with our own live-wire president, DON DORINI. '53, supervised the enU'rc pro­gram. BOB GORE, '31, and ED TRO.MBE1TA, '60, handled most of the paper work, and through their efforts there was wonderful coordination be­tween Mackey Airlines and the hotel; all arrived on time and were in their rooms in short order. We plan to extend the convention next year and ex­pect to draw many more from other clubs through­out the country. 
Plans got under way for an annual golf tourna­
ment to be held in July of each year. FRANK 
CAREY, '46, handled the arrangements; plans were 
to moke it complete v.-itli cocktails and dinner 
afterward. Wc understand other clubs have success­
fully run such a tournament, and we would cer­
tainly like to hear from them and find the right 
formula. 
August is to be something new for the club — an annual father-son dinner honoring those new students entering in September and their parents. \Ve feel that a real Notre Dame send-ofF is impor­tant to these young men and to their parents. The parents will be enrolled as special members and the students, of course, automatically are enrolled. They will be on the mailing list and kept informed on the club's activities. All students and their parents will receive special treatment; plans are to have a representative of the University on hand to welcome them. 
Fortunately ^ve arc receiving two televised ND games this year and already have plans in the mill to have all the members and their guests attend 
— complete with cocktails, dinner and dancing. Each year this has been a favorite attraction, and wc feel that everyone will enjoy Hugh Dcvore and his Fighting Irish bringing the University to its rightful place of the top teams in the country. 
During our First International Convention we presented a Man of the Year award to MSGR. GILES ALLAIS, our chaplain. As an honorary member Monsignor .-Vllais has directed the reli­gious aspect of our club for years and now in his later years is unable to continue as active chap­lain. The club members unanimously voted this award. Although Monsignor was unable to attend the convention wc were able to have him for our May meeting where the membership gave bim a standing ox'ation. The inscription on his award reads as foIlo\vs: "The Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, hereby declares that it recog-
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 21 
nizcs for Man of the Year 1962 Right Reverend 
• MoDsignor Giles Allais, who through his office as Chaplain by His unswemng lox'alty and devotion, hts constant, cheerful example and outstanding spiritual leadership has guided the Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale to many years of success­ful existence In the truest and richest traditions of Notre Dame Clubs. The high and beloved esteem in which he is held by all Notre Dame people who know him is indicative of the rich significance he has brought to his role as Chaplain." 
—BOB McDONOUGH, Secy. 

Fort Wayne 
The Fort Wayne Club of Notre Dame held iu annual Universal Notre Dame Night on May 7, 1963, at Halls Gas House Restaurant. 
Guest Speaker was FATHER EDMUND JOYCE, C.S.C.} Executive \1ce-presidcnl of the University, and a special feature was the presentation of the Man of the Year award to J. THOMAS O'REILLY, '44. 
Grant County 
Tlic new Marion, Ind., Club began its activities with a Communion breakfast on Sunday ^fay 5. 
' Alumni and wives attended Mass In a body at St. Paul's Church. Marion. Indiana. A breakfast was held at the Holiday Inn with FR. JOHN WALSH, C.S.C.. director of the Notre Dame Foundation as the guest speaker. 
On Wednesday evening. May 15, the group met at the K.C. home. Officers were elected and plans were formulated for the forthcoming year. Officers elected were: President. GENE CAMPA­NALE; Mcc-Prcsldent, BILL BAPST; Sccretan', MIKE KILEY; and Treasurer, DICK QUILLIN. t" Other members present were .AL BERGM.AN, : CHUCK L.\TriMER, MATT GARTL.AND, JIM > GARTLAND, JOHN FITZGERALD, **BUD" : GARTLAND, JR., BOB HUNECK, and ".M.ANNY" 
* GUERRERO. i —MIKE KILEY, Sccv. 
Indianapolis 
On Thursday, June 20, a dinner was held at the Indianapolis .Athletic Club in honor of HUGH DEVORE, new head football coach at Notre Dame. 
Hugh reported on the prospects for next season and was paid proper tribute by many of his friends. A large delegation from the University was present including coaching and athletic department of­ficials. Tlie local high-scliool coaches and many sports writers from around tlie Midwest \verc there. ROBERT V. WELCH was clialrman. . . . 
President JOHN M. RYAN and his newly elected officers and directors bad several meetings and planned some interesting and entertaining pro­grams. To maintain the very worthy scliolarship program, 
, they first announced that dues for 1963-64 are now due and payable to DICK OWENS at the Indiana 
National Bank. 
Tlie first program was the Stag Outing, which was set for June 27 at the McNamara Two Gaits Farm. This event **"as chalrmanned by the affable, efiicient and charming DICK McN.AMARA. He and his committee provided an excellent evening of fun and entertainment. 
The golf tournament was held this year at High­land Golf and Countr>- Club on Thursday, July 18. BILL KENNEDY, the very capable chairman, promised a good day for all the duffers that want to play golf, and there was other planned enter­tainment for those who just desired to become members of the bar. 
Kansas City 
Wc welcome our June graduates to the ranks of the Kansas Citv Alumni. The Kansas City area graduates are RICHARD LEE HAIR, JOHN E. a\SH, MICHAEL P. CURR.AN, THOMAS F. GORDON, ROBERT FITZGERALD, JAMES S. SCHILLING and HAROLD J. RENO. 
The Notre Dame Auxiliary held its annual elec­tion at the luncheon In May. Elected to head the Auxiliary' in 1963 were Mrs. E. Robert Nigro, pres­ident; Mrs. Norman E. Bowes, xice-president; Mrs. John L. Daw, recording secretary; Mrs. J. H. De-Coursey, Jr., corresponding secretarj-; Mrs. George Broussard, treasurer; and Mrs. J. H. DcCourscy, Sr., auditor. The directors are Mrs. Harlow B. King, Mrs. Jcrrj- Soden, Mrs. Joseph Van Dyke, Mrs. Sam Digio\'aniu, Mrs. Leonard LeCIuyse, Mrs. Jack Fritzlen, Mrs. Russell Farrell, Mrs. Frank Grimaldi, Mrs. Charles H. Stevenson, Mrs. T. F. 0*MalIcy, Sr., Mrs. Norman Gordon, Mrs. Frank Meurcr, Mrs. Harold Solomon and Mrs. ^^^lliam Sharp. A $500.00 dieck for the "Challenge Pro­gram," earmarked for a club-sponsored Library seminar room, was presented to CHUCK O'NEILL, club treasurer, by the Auxiliary*. 
A cocktail party was sponsored by the Auxiliary, July 13, at the home of Dr. and Mrs. E. ROBERT NIGRO. This successful event has become a favorite summer actirity. 
We have had good response to our dues state­ments. .As you know, the club dues go a long way toward defraying club expenses and make It pos­sible for us to contribute more to the Foundation. In this connection. wcM like to take this opportun­ity to remind all Kansas City area alumni that the club would appreciate their notifying it if you are cither not on the mailing list or if you have a change of address. Please send all names and ad­dresses to this writer c/o 7636 Broadmoor Lane, Overland Park, Kansas. 
Wc understand that tliere was a good size group of K.C. alumni in attendance at class reunions, this year. As of this w*rlting, wc knoiv* that ED ALYWARD, RUSS FARRELL and JOHN RUS­SELL made their reunion. 
—CARL B. ERFFMEYER, '51, Secy. 

Kentucky 
The summer weather here in Kentucky has 
brought out more than the golfers and the crab-
gross — namely, the Notre Dame Club with a 
calendar full of activities. 
Leading off the summer season was the retreat 
at the .Abbey of GcthsemanI the weekend of May 
23. A dozen of the alumni traveled to Trappist. Kentucky, for a spiritual recharge. BILL WUETCHER, '53, handled all the arrangements. 
New freshmen, their dads, current students and 
alumni had the opportunity to meet and get ac­
quainted at the Alumni-Student Dinner Meeting 
held June 17 at the Richmond Boat Club. A crowd 
of o\'er 60, including all of the Louisville area's 15 
new freshmen, attended. Guest speaker for the eve­
ning was .Alex Groza, the head basketball coach at 
Bellarmlne. A large measure of credit for the eve­
ning's success went to chairman BOB HUETZ, '58, 
one of the Club's newcomers. 
The annual ND-Xaricr outing returned to the Bellarmlne campus on July 17 this year, and was the usual roaring success. .\ large turnout was guaranteed by promises of golf scores in the low seventies, triples and homers on the softball dia­mond, good food and plenty of beer! Chairman LEE STEIDEN, '51, made good on the last two promises, an>^vay! The ND and Xavier Softball teams staged a real battle before possession of the traditional Jug was decided. 
There are plenty of activities on the fire for the next several months. Tentatix'e plans have been made to have a smoker the afternoon of the na­tionally televised ND-Stanford game, October 26. Sometime this fall we're hoping to have a cruise or dance (or both) on the Belle of LouIs\*iIlc. Then later in the year there will be the family Com­munion supper, the Christmas Dance, the ND-UK basketball game, and — well, there are a few *'pos­siblcs" that, like the 19G4 model cars, arc just too new to talk about. So, if there is anyone within reach of this column who is not currently receiving the Club's mailings, particularly you young bucks from class of '56 on, drop me a line at 2410 Wood­mont Drive, Louis\-ille 20, and we'll keep you up to date. 
—JACK ZUFELT, '57, Secy, 

Maine 
The Notre Dame .Alumni In Maine are planning their summer get-together and have hopes of ir being held at Camp Scbalk, run by the Notre Dame Fathers under the verv able leadership of F.ATHER H.ANNA, CS.C. 
This will be held toward the end of August and notice will be sent to all of our members. Un­fortunately the distances men have to travel in Maine are such that it precludes any great num­ber of affairs and wc have to depend upon the spirit of the alumni group here to support a Notre Dome Scholarship boy — as we have for the last five years. 
GOLUMBUS — UnivcTsal Notre Dame Night, held last April 20 in Goliimbiis, Ohio, saw (from kft) L. C '*Biid*' Mnn^y, '33, as master of ccrcmoiiies; Judge Joseph Van Heyde, prindpal speaker; and new officers installed: (LHT.) Treasurer Jt^mny Johnson, '44; Vicc-Prc»dcnt Don Weiland, '52; President Jack Dilenschneidcr, '53; and Secretary Ernie Klctzly, '57. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 
W'e arc planning to contribute to the aid of an­other boy for next year and already have a good bit of this money on hand. While we may be small, we have our own scholarship fund going and are pleased that we did get a fair response on the 18 million dollar challenge. There are still some ^faine men who arc expected to contribute and we hope that this might be a remmder. 
Your Corresponding Secretary returned from a trip to the West Coast where he u*as fortunate enough to appear on Art Linkletter's "House Party." 
In the next issue we should have a resume of our activities for the summer and our predictions for Maine activities in the winter. 
—RAY GEIGER, Secy. 

^^ Mansfield 
.Man of the Year PETER F. MORITZ '43 was honored as Mansfield area's Notre Dame alumnus of the year at the Notre Dame Club's Universal Notre Dame Night at the Mansficld-Lcland Hotel. Presenting Pete's award was outgoing club presi­

^ dent DICK WALTERS MI and Rev. JOSEPH BARRY, C.S.C., was the guest speaker at this dinner. 
—.M. E. PRUNTY. JR., Secy 
Miami 
The February* meeting of the Miami Club was highlighted by a talk given by FATHER LEAH on "Economy and Our Times." JUDGE VINCENT 

^-. _ GIBLEN was also present and gave a short talk. Our president, Ri\Y POPP, got the March meet­ing off to a fast start with plans for a big at­tendance by the Miami Club at the Notre Dame Convention at West End, Bahamas. This was backed bv support of author CHARLES MAHER and pilot MIKE ZOROVICH. JOHN THORNTON, with his son as a guest, attended to cheer the Notre Dame football highlights films, along with GENE KUBICKI, CHUCK .\WCHLEY, BARNEY GOOD, JERRY HOLLAND and I. I. PROBST. 
The May meeting set plans for our annual pic­nic with GENE KUBICKI, JACK CANANE and BOB PROBST as co-chairmen. The picnic will be held in early August. 
The Miami Club will host the 1964 Florida Notre 

*' Dame Convention with the following named in support for the convention plans: FARRIS CO­WART, BOB REILLY, BILL McSHANE, TOM HILS and JOHN WEISEND. 
Our Club's 5ccretar>% GEORGE HERO, has been appointed to the Dade legal delegation In the State Capitol, Tallahassee, and as a result has been 

* absent from the past two meetings. —BOB PROBST 
Mid-Hudson Valley 

The Universal Notre Dame Communion Break­fast was observed in December with Mass and Communion at Holy Trinity Church, Poughkeepsie. Mass was said by FATHER CAMILLUS SUGI­... HARA, who is now an assistant at Holy Trinity Church. Father did graduate work at Notre Dame. The annual Christmas dinner was held at Talbot's 
*
 Inn, Pleasant Valley, with Club Chaplain FATHER 

J.
 CROFT, O.M.I., as featured speaker. 



In May, the club held a. Knute Rockne Award Night dinner. A Knute Rockne Scholar-Athlete award was given to Sid Osofsky, all-around county athlete from Pine Plains. Osofsky topped the list of athletes from the four county area of Dutchess, 

. Ulster, Purman and Orange. Sid was a three-year star in all of the maj'or sports and was picked on all of the area All-Star squads. He was salutatorian 
* of his class with an average of 90.73. The principal speakers at the dinner included Brother Linus 
R. Foy, F. M. S., president of Marist College and .ALFRED J. PERRINE, Notre Dame Foundation. Lcs Barton, one of the best-known coaches in the county, and his wife along with the boy's parents were present. Alumni attending w*as Mr. and Mre. JOHN W. DRUMGOULD, Mr. and Mrs. 

' RICHARD R. McCABE, Mr. and .Mrs. AL­LAN S. MILLER, Mr. and Mrs. BRIAN C. ^ O'NEILL, HENRY W. FLETCHER, Mr. and Mrs. VICTOR T. SHAHAN, Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD 
J. YEAGER, Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES W. BECK, Mr. WILLIAM J. BLAKE and daughter Mrs. Catherine Gainer, Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT Af. ORTALE, Mr. and Mrs. ANTHONY J. BUONO. and Father J. Croft, O.M.I. Many thanks to JACK ECONOMOU for making the preparations for the Knute Rockne award. 

DECATUR — Alumni in Illinois* Lincoln country played host to James E. AnnstTOii£r» Alumni Assn. executive secretary and president of the American Alumni CoundL From left are A. C. Moran, Jr., '48, Decatur Club president; Msgr. F. W. Klasner, chaplain; Jim Armstrong, '25, speaker; and Nicholas Neiers, '58, Law. '60, chairman. 
The annual picnic Is scheduled for Sunday, 
August 25, at Eymard Seminar\-, Hyde Park. 
In ^fay, Mr. and Mrs. TOM DIGAN became 
the parents of their seventh, a girl. The latest 
gives them four girls. Doctor HENRY (BUD) 
FLETCHER assisted in bringing the new member of 
the Notre Dame family into the world. 
Mr. and Mrs. RICH.\RD J. YEAGER and chil­
dren sailed June 12, aboard the Hncr Queen Mary 
for England. Dick is on a temporary assignment 
for IB.M. 
—BRL\N C. O'NEILL, Vicc-Pres. 

New Jersey 
Tlie Northern New Jersey .-Vlumni Club held its annual U.N.D. night at the Chanticler in Millburn, N.J., on April 27. Those in attendance cnjoved our guest of honor, FATHER TOM O'DON'NELL, who with his wit and poetic quotations charmed the ladies as he tactfully enlisted their assbtance for his N.D. Library Assn. project. Father O'Donncll also did a masterful job of convincing all the men in the audience to take their families to Gettys­burg, Pa., for the Notre Dame celebration com­memorating the work of our first Holy Cross chap­lains — particularly Father Corby at this historic landmark one hundred years ago! 
—PETE REGAN, '54. Secy 

New York 
BILL MURPHY was chairman of the Annual 

KickolF Smoker, held at the Waldorf-Astoria on 
May I6th, ably assisted by JOE CALLAHAN. 
HUGH DEVORE was the guest of honor. 
The .Annual Golf Outing at Westchester Hills Golf Club was managed by BOB LANDRY. . The Long Island division scheduled a pool party for the younger set on July 6th and a boat ride for their parents in August. At their June meeting Msgr. Gerald Ryan spoke on suburban family life. 
President ED FITZPATRICK and BILL CUDDY have been making extensive preparations for the rally prior to the N.D.-Syracuse football game which comes to N.Y. City on Thanksgiving Day. The pregame rally, with TV's Ed Sullivan as master of ceremonies, accompanied by some of the nation's headline entertainers, will be held at the Waldorf-Astoria the evening before the game. There will be a tea dance and cocktail party at the Wal­dorf after the game. 
—GEORGE P. KRUG, '35, Secy 

North Florida 
The following couples were in attendance at the First .Annual Notre Dame Florida International Convention held at West End, Grand Bahama, Hotel: 
Kathleen and BOB SCHELLENBERG, Char­lotte and AL KESSING, Betty and Dr. FARRIS MONSOUR, Margaret and DICK BRODEUR, Jean and JERRY HORTON. Everxone enjoyed the 
affair, and all are looking for^vard to next year's 
convention. 
Universal Notre Dame night was an outstanding 

success. JOHN CORRIGAN, president, and SAM 
LAWLER, chairman of the affair, really put to­
gether quite an evening. Eighty-two people at­
tended and enjoyed a delightful talk by ED 
"MOOSE" KRAUSE. 
Tlie annual Notre Dame Picnic will be held 

-lometime in August at the home of Midge and 
Dr. ED SULLIVAN. Thb affair is always well at­
tended and we hope that this year w-ill be the 
same. 
Mr. LOU FINSKE, president of Florida Sute 

Theaters, again arranged a movie for the Club at 
the Projection room of Florida State Theater in 
Jacksonville. The members, wives and children 
certainly did enjoy the evening. 
—RICH.ARD H. BRODEUR '50 

Ohio Valley 
The following men were elected as officers of the Ohio Valley Noire Dame Club at its Uni­versal Notre Dame Night Dinner Meeting April 23, 1963, In Wheeling, W. Va.: President, ROBERT 
R. SINCAVICM AB '50; Vice-President, RUSSELL 
B. RICKUS BCS '34; and Secretari--Treasurer, WILLL4.M H. MITSCH BSEE '33. 
Recent activities of the Ohio Valley Notre Dame Club Included a Nov. 14, 1%2, Stag Dinner Meeting at Howard Johnson's Restaurant, Wheeling. In attendance were: FRANCIS W.ALLACE '23. JAMES HARANZO '32, ROBERT SINCWICH '50, HARRY BUCH '52 LLB '55. WILLIAM BUCH, JA.MES DAILER '50, EDMUND S.ARGUS '33 LLB '51, GEORGE SARGUS '28, GUS VAR­LAS '47. RUSSELL RICKUS 'J», JOHN NIE­MIEC '29, J. RAYMOND KEYS '49, and WM. MITSCH '33. Friiidis WaUace spoke on Notre Dame football. Also discussed were .Academic Scholarships, the possibility of a local Rockne .Award and a Christmas Party. 
On April 11, 1963, a Stag Dinner Meeting was held at Howard Johnson's Restaurant. In attendance were: GEORGE SARGUS '28. J.UfES HARANZO '52, ROBERT SINCAVICH '50, RUSSELL RICKUS '34, FRANCIS WALLACE '23, JOHN NIEMIEC '29, and BILL MITSCH '33. The speaker was DICK RmVE, assistant director of the NJ>. Foundation. '.. 
On .April 23, 1963, Universal Notre Dame Night was observed at Figaretti's Restaurant. .Among those In attendance were: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT SIN­CAVICH '50, Mr. and Mrs. JAMES HARANZO '52, Mr. and Mrs. RUSSELL RICKUS '3», Mr. and Mrs. TED KREMER CI '32, Mr. and Mrs. MARCELL BLOCH, Mr. and Mrs. BILL MITSCH '33; GUS VARLAS '47, GEORGE aARGUS '28 JOHN NIEMIEC '29, FRANCIS WALLACE 
•23, and TOM BIERCORTE. Toastmaster was James Haranzo. Speakers Included Frank WaUace ou N.D. football, George Sargus on Fomidation progress, and Robert SIncaWch on Scholarships. 
—BILL MITSCH, Secy-Treas. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 23 
Ponama 
Universal Xotrc Dame Night was held in Pana­ma at the New Continental Hotel. For a change all the "Panamaniacs" were present and most of the "gringos"' were absent due to the fact that thev were sick (of old age) or away from Panama. 
—ANTONIO DOMLNGUEZ, JR., Secy to and from game), hotel rooms, tips, and the cocktail party on Friday evening. Hotel accommoda­tions are based on two persons to a room. Single room rates will be furnished on request. 

The trip is definitely limited by the plane ca­pacity, so we \«'ouId suggest that members reser\'e promptly. Chairman is CHARLES A. CONLEY. 
Phoenix 
Peoria 
Monday, June 17 was the date for the annual 

election of ofhccrs for the Notre Dame Club of 
Peoria held In the "33'' room of the Pabst Blue 
Ribbon brewery. Our cordial host, FRANK MUR­
PHY *I8, prodded an ample supply of excellent 
refreshments, lialf of which was consumed by 

JERRY GROOM BSC '51. 
Incidental to the refreshments was the election 

of officers for the coming year. The following were 
elected: President, JOHN R. POWERS JR., AB 
»53; Vice-President, JAMES M. McCOMB BSC 
'54; Secrctan-, RICHARD C. BENKENDORF JR., 
BSC '60; and Treasurer, PAUL J. SCH\\'EICKERT 
BSCE '54. (.All these fellows are ^rom Peoria.) 
From all aspects, spiritually, socially, etc, evcr\'­

one agreed that the past year had been an out­
standing one. CHUCK PERRIN LLB '51 and 
cohorts did an outstanding job. Hie new officers 
hope to continue this success with a golf outing 
scheduled for the near future, to be held in con­
junction w-ith the St. Ambrose . Club of Peoria. TIM GORM.AN AB '60 has been appointed chair-Dian. —RICHARD C. BENKE.\DORF JR. '60, Sco* 
Philadelphia 
GETTYSBURG CENTENNIAL — SATURD.W, JUNE 29TH. Philadclphians %vcnt en masse to pay tribute to Rev. Wm. Corby, C.S.C., and all Catho­lic War Dead. 
The University-sponsored event started \vjth a procession to the Eternal Peace Light Shrine where the first Mass ever celebrated at Gettysburg took place at noon. The Field Mass was offered by Bishop GEORGE L. LEECH of Harrisburg. The head of the Veterans .Administration. General JOHN GLEASON, represented PRESIDENT KEN­NEDY, and former President and Mrs. IKE EISEN­HOWER attended. The event commemorated par­ticularly the action of Father Corby in imparting general absolution to troops entering the historic battle. Chartered air-conditioned buses left from 16lh and PcnnE>-Ivania Blvd. at 7:30 a.m., traveled "via the turnpike to Gettysburg, arriving about II 
a.m. A box lunch was scr\'ed. The group returned to Philadelphia by 8 p.in., Saturdav evening. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADEL­PHIA was designated a Host Alumni Club for the Gett>'sburg Centennial and served as ushers. Among their duties was to assist state and local officials in handling the crowd. Each usher was assigned to an area and given an official badge identifying him as a Notre Dame Official. 
NOTRE D.AME VS. SYRACUSE, NOV. 28, 1963, YANKEE STADIUNf, NEW YORK, NE>V YORK <THANKSGIVING DAY). JACK HENRY is Chairman. More details on this trip later. As of tliis date we plan to run a train up to New York, see the game and return to Philadelphia by 5:30 p.m. This \vil\ enable you to have Thanksgiving dinner 
DALLAS — New officers joined 230 Dallas 
Clubbers and guests in UND Night tribute to two unpictured personalities: Athletic Director Edward Krausc, the principal speaker; and Afan of the Year 
J. Af. Haggar, Sr., whose sons Ed and Joe were previous recipients of the local citation to a Notre Dame man. 
at home with your family. An I1:(X) a.m. kickofT time makes this possible. So plan now to make this trip. 
For its Fifth Annual Plane Trip, the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia offers a tour to Chicago and Notre Dame for the sellout Southern California vs. Notre Dame Football Game on Saturday, October 12, 1963. The trip includes three days and two nights at the luxurious Sheraton-Chicago Hotel lo­cated on ^Uchigan Boule^'ard between the famous Loop and the Lake Front. 
^Ve plan to leax'e Philadelphia by scheduled plane at noon on Friday, October II, 1963. Lunch will be scrx'ed on the plane. In two hours' flying time we will arrive in Chicago. After the hotel check-in, there 'wUl be time for a dip in the hotel's beautiful indoor pool. On Friday night we will attend a rally and cocktail party. 
On Saturday morning we will take, via the turn­pike, chartered buses to the Notre Dame Campus, arriving in time for a leisurely lour of the Univer­sity grounds and buildings. Tlien the game in Notre Dame Stadium against the National Champs, Southern Cal. Immediately after the game we re­turn to Chicago on the chartered buses. 
Sunday, October 13, 1963, is open for Church and sightseeing. We return by plane late Sunday afternoon with dinner en route to Philadelphia. 
The complete trip is only $135.00 per person. This includes round trip air fare with tax (hot meals on the plane), hotel for two nights, ticket to the game, bus transportation (to and from airport and 
Universal Notre Dame Night was cclebratt-d 

on April 23, 1963, at the Paradise Valley Countr\­
Club. ED BOYLE, Arizona Director of the F.B.I.. 
was master of ceremonies. Guest speaker for the 
evening was Coach JOHNNY JORD.AN who gave 
a very interesting talk on the athletics at the 
University for the coming year. The Notre Dame 
Man-of-the-Year atvard was to TOM HENNIGAN 
by Mr. E. J. HILKERT, Dean Emeritus of .Arizona 
State Universitv. This year's officers are: J.ACK 
SCHOUTEN, president; TOM HENNIGAN, vice-
president; JIM CORCORAN, secretary-; and JOHN 
McSHANE, treasurer. 
It was a great ex'ening with a very good crowd of some 60 persons in attendance. WI M CORCOR.AN, Secy. 
Pittsbursh 
Following U.N.D. Night, our annual Notre Dame Family Communion Mass and Breakfast took place on Sunday, May 26, 1963. The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass was offered at St. Mary of Mcrc>' Church at Gateway Center at 9:00 a.m. Breakfast was served at 10:00 a.m. at the Hilton Hotel. 
We were indeed fortunate, and ver>- pleased, to have Monsignor John B. McDowell, Superintendent of Schools, as our featured speaker. With so many of us having school-age children, and perhaps some­what perplexed by the rapid progress in adoption of new education standards, s\*stems and techniques, Monsignor ^fcDowell's address was highly illuminat­ing. 
—ALVIN C. GROSS, Chairman 

Rhode Island & S.E. Mass. 
The Notre -Dame Alumni Club of Rhode Island and Southeastern Mass. held its Annual Universal Notre Dame Night on May 17, 1963 at the Jolly Miller Club in Seckonk, Mass. We had a good turn­out of alumni and their wives. 
Chairman PHIL TOOLE '52 had the prinlegc of announcing our Club's Notre Dame Man of The Year Award to JACK ZILLY '45. The .Award was presented to Jack by Club Vice-President, and past winner, ED DENNING '50. The recipient and his lovely wife, Eulalia (a native of Nilcs, Michigan), \vill soon be moring from East Providence to Kingston, R.I., and the nearby campus of the University of Rhode Island, where Jack is the new head football coach. 
Jack Zilly was an .All-American end at Notre Dame, and his natural ability plus the coaching experience he has gained at Montana University, Notre Dame (under Terry Brennan), and Broivn University here in Prondcncc well equip him to do an outstanding job at URI. Wc all wish him luck and assure him our prayers go with him for a successful career as head coach. 
Our gathering was honored to have as its guest speaker Notre Dame's head football coach, HUGH DEVORE. Hugh is no stranger to Prondcnce since he once coached football at Prowdcncc College, ^ 
LOS ANGELES — UND Night reception and dinner in the Hollywood Roosevelt — a joint event for the LJL, Long Beach, San Fernando, San Gabriel and Orange County Clubs—featured (I.-r.): Dr. Leo V. Tui^con, named the area's ND Man of the Year, receiving his award scroll from Mort Goodman, former L.A. prc^dcn^ now a member of the: national Alumni Board* Father-Hesburgh, representing the University, discussing space flight and segregation (center) widi Latin film star Ricardo Montalban; smd (right) •with character actors (in background, Ed Bcgley, 1963 Academy Award supporting player). 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-SeptembeTj 1963 
now more famous for its Championship National 
Invitational Tournament basketball teams. Coach 
Devore impressed us all with the talk he gave 
on Xotre Dame football and some of the problems 
he faces in building a Notre Dame team for the 
1963 season. In his talk about team positions and 
about the individual bo>-s he has to fit these posi­
tions, he left no doubt in his listeners' minds that 
here is a truly dedicated Notre Dame man who 
has the ability to teach boys and get the most 
out of them. 
This year's Universal Notre Dame Night was 
one of the best of recent years. We all enjoyed 
our main speaker, Coach Hugh Devore, and the 
chance to get together again for a good time. 
A meeting to be held late in June will elect 
officers for next year. 
—RICHARD F. DELMONTE, Sccj-. 
Rochester 
The newly elected officers of the Notre Dame 
Club of Rochester were presented on Thursday, 
April 18, at the annual Universal Notre Dame Night 
Ceremonies held at the Downtowner Restaurant. 
They arc: JIM DOYLE '51, president; VINCE 
DOLLARD '39, vice-pres.; DA\'E SAMUELSON 
'60, secretary; and TOM FENTON '57, treas. (2nd 
term). 
The evening's program was dedicated to the memor>- of JOSEPH P. (STUBBY) FLYNN, the club's founder. JERRY FLYNN '40 served as Master of Ceremonies and introduced REV. LOUIS J. THORNTON, C.S.C, as guest speaker. Following Fr. Thornton's talk on "Contributions of the Notre Dame Man," DON BOOTH '49, CPA in the Con­trollers Division of Eastman Kodak Co., was pre­sented a "Notre Dame Man of the Year" award by JACK DUFFEY '35. 
On July 13, the annual Notre Dame Picnic was 
held at South Vieiv* Cabin in Mendon Ponds Park. 
Projected for mid-.\ugust are plans for a club 
golf tournament, and the annual Fall Dance has 
been scheduled for Saturday, Sept. 7. 
—J. DAVID SAMUELSON '60, Secj-. 
Rome 
Tlie ND .-Xlumni Third European Pilgrimage came to town in April. Skty strong, shepherded by Heaven's shecpherdcr, FR. PAUL WENDEL, C.S.C. classes from 1908 to 1959 were merrily represented, with wives, mothers, sisters, brothers, aunts and uncles. 
Met at the airport as they landed in an Irish Airlines plane from Paradise, they were checked in. then galloped out to Notre Dame International School for a reception by the local club and Holy Cross Brothers. Following, - they \%'ere shuttled to the General Hq. of the Congregation of Holy Cross for Solemn Benediction, with "Notre Dame Our Mother" as a pol>'phonic recessional by the Holv Cross seminarians, and then received bv FR. GERMAIN M. LALANDE, C.S.C., Superior General, and members of his Curia. This im­mediate upon-arriving "back-at-Iiomcncss" had its intended effect of making the pilgrims feel at home in Rome. 
In reporting guests to the ND Hospitality Center, we will give due consideration to the editor by refraining from listing the sixty NDcrs in the group. This h'st is othenvise available at the .•Mumni Office. The Rome Club was proud to guide, tour, entertain, and assist the visiting Irish in a week's merr\*-go-round of pleasure. Interested alumni should enquire of the .Alumni Office for next vear's pl&ns. 
RASG OUR BELL: STEPHEN CLARK 'M 
(P.
 "G . Phil.), Miami Shores, Fla.; CAPT. BOB RALPIN '34, US .Army, uith wife former Xfar>-Eder SMC *35 (mother Emma Krost Edcr SMC '02), flanked by five of their seven children; JIM WALDRON '58, son of Jim '26; the MOORES (Dad '38), parents of Joe '&4; TOM FARRELL '26 and Tom Jr. '58; FR. WM. HUND, C.S.C.; J. ; 

V.
 LENIHAN '29; EARL ENGLERT '44; EUGENE '35. and Mrs. O'BRIEN, parents of Dennis *G2 and Fred '67; GEORGE '23 and Mrs. P.ATTER­SON; STANLEY ONERLAR (summer '60); ED­WARD FARRELL '58; RAY KELLY '15 with wife and daughter, father of Ray '41, and Jerome '53, grandfather of Ray III '63. 


CAPT. ROBERT E. LEE '32. US Na\T, Iceland, and wife; EM.MERICH VON WENGERSKY, MA '62, of Austria; WIB MARSHALL '49; parents of JOE BETTE '61; RUSSELL WIDGER '27 and wife; HARRY HOG.AN '04 and wife; GERRY SMITH '27 and wife; JIM WHITE '28 and wife, (daughter Mary, ND art classes); \VAf. WADDUCK '57; E. ERIEKSON '30 and wife; The Bretlaus. 

FORT WAYNE — Universal Notre Dame Night principals sainted J. Thomas OHeniy 
(2nd from 1.) on his award as ND Man of the Year at the Allen County, Ind., observance in Hall's Guest House: (L-r.) Father Joyce, Univeraty exec v.-p. and principal speaker; O'Reilly; Jerome O'Dowd, last ycar*s recipient, who made the 
presentation; and Robert Luther, president of the Notre Dame CHub of Fort Wayne. 
Mrs. a relative of the late FR. LEONARD CAR­RICO. C.S.C, (R.LP.); BRO. LOYOLA CHRIS­TOPH, C.S.C., now at Pius XII Institute, Chester 
N.Y. (original interior decorator of the Rome Club). 
JOHN HOEY '61; JOE GRIFFIN '28, with wife and daughter; WM. "CURLY" ASH '24 (second visit), and wife; JOE HILGER '28 and wife, parents of Joe Jr. '60, daughters Mimi '56, Bebs '58 and Patricia '66, SMC; HUGH KNOELL '65, ANTONIO MARIA BAYOT '37 of Manila, plan­ning 3 months' stay; JIM CLAUSS '47 and wife, sister of Michael '35, Paul '37, Daniel '39, and JOSEPH SHEEDY '41; VINCE H.ANRAH.AN '22. 
ELUSIVE MEMBER: We reported in last issue the return to our midst of LOUIS SUMMERS PAG.ADOR '61, architect and former teacher of art at ND International School here. After a hitch in the army in native Peru, Lou returned to us but flew ofT again lo guess where: Notre Dame campus South Bend, to pursue a degree in engi­neering. Best to our elusi%'e Lou. 
MEMO: NOTRE D.AME HOSPIT.ALITY CEN­TER is here for you. Open every day, all day, from early to late. Write us, ring us, drop in: Address is: Notre Dame Center, Largo Brancaccio 82, Rome. Tel. 730.002. Welcome! 
—VINCE McALOON 'Jt, Secy. 
St. Joseph Valley 
.Apologies to South Bend area alumni for jumbling the account of their Universal Notre Dame Night in' the last issue. The mention of Past President JOE HICKEY as president-elect was a mixing up of the names of Honorary President TOM HICKEY and President JOE DILLON, the latter a jovial 
m.c. at the Morris Inn festlWtlcs in May. Correct was the account of awards to JERRY HAMMES and BOB CAHILL. the former for yeoman ser\'icc as 1962-63 president, the latter named Notre Dame ^fan of the Year for perennial sen'icc to the University, the Club, and the communit>'. .Also, in late May, the directors of the Valley Club unanimously passed a resolution commending Chicago's JOHN LATTNER for setting up and scr\'ing as chairman of the Helsman Trophy .Award 
Winners Memorial for the late Ernie Davis, a great rival from Syracuse University. President JOSEPH 
F. DILLON sent a check for the fund on behalf of the Club. 
St. Louis 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Louis held its .Annual Sports Night on Wednesday, June 12, at the LeChateau. Over 225 alumni, parents, students and friends were In attendance. Our new \-arsit\* football coach, HUGH DEVORE '5t, was our guest. Hugh explained to us what he hopes to accomplish during his "interim" year as coach. He left us in an optimistic frame of mind, and we certainly wish him the best of luck this coming fall. Other guests present were D.AN DEVINE, ^•arsity football coach at Missouri University; BOB STEWART, athletic director at St. Louis University; JOHN BENNINGTON, rarsltj- bas­ketball coach at St. Louis University; and GENE HART, the new athletic director at Rockhurst College, Kansas City, Mo. Our toastmaster u*as BOB BURNES, the sports editor of the St. Louis Globe-Democrat, whose "Benchwarmer" column is enjoyed dally by local alumni. 
Much discussion was held in regard to the possibility of Notre Dame's playing Missouri U. In St. Louis' new river-front stadium now under construction. If schedules can be coordinated, a game will be played here in 1969 or 1970. John Bennington mentioned that his Billikens will journey to Notre Dame ne.xt February 15th for a bas­ketball . game with the Irish. This series will be a continuous one for the foreseeable future. 
Notre Dame soccer and rugby teams will also \*isit St. Louis during the coming season to play St. Louis U. Two St. Loulsans, JOHN POELKER '64 and BOB MIER '64, captain these two Irish teams respectively. 
JOHN SIMON 'M, JOHN ANTON 'M and DICK S.AUGET '66, all members of the varsity football squad, were introduced to those present. Various Catholic high-school coaches were also In attendance. KEITH SM.ALL, a graduate of Sumner High School, was introduced as winner of a track scholarship to the University. GARY RIESER, a graduate of Bishop DuBourg High School, was introduced as winner of the St. Louis Club's annual academic scholarship. 
Thanks are extended to BOB HELLRUNG '30. 
JACK GRIFFIN '39, and CHARLEY FISHER for 
their assistance in contacting the coaches and 
parents. 
The St. Louis Club is planning its annual foot­
ball trip to the Southern California, game on 
October 12. BOB CHICKEY '54 is trip-chairman 
and should be contacted by those alumna wishing to 
join us for what looks like the outstanding game 
oF the season. > 
Our Club's tentative program of events for the 
coming year includes a party for the new freshmen 
and their dads in early September. Plans are being 
made for a buffet party to watch the Stanford 
game on national TV on Oct. 26. Our Communion 
Breakfast Stmday will be Dec 8 and our Christmas 
Dance will be held on Sat., December 21. We also 
plan on having a St. Patrick's Night Dance on 
March 17, 1964. Universal Notre Dame Night %»-iII 
be celebrated next .April, as_ usual, and plans are 
being made now to make this again an outstanding 
and enjoyable evening for all. 
We hope that any alumni li\'ing in the St. Louis 
area will contact us so that we can place their 
name on our mailing roster. We are sure that 
they will enjoy our Club's functions and we hope . to see them soon. . . 
—HERMAN L. KRIEGSRAUSER '54, Pres. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September,. 1963 25 
San Diego 
A large turnout of members gathered at the fabulous ocean-front Hotel Del Coronado on the evening of April 25, 1963, to pay tribute to the local club's selection for the **Slan of the Year'* auard. Lt. General FRANCIS P. MULCAHY 
(U.S.M.C. ret.), '14. A holder of many military-honors during his years of ser\'ice in the Marine Corps, General Mulcahy is an active participant in local club affairs. He and his wife, Elizabeth, are residents of Coronado, California. 
Guest speaker for the evening was JOHXXY JORD.\N, Notre Dame basketball coach. 
New Club Officers are: CHRIS COHAN, '54, president; DON LOPKER, '35, vice-president; MARVIN RICKLLVG, '53, secretary; JACK MUR­PHY, '51, corres. secretary-; and JERRY BRAIN­ERD, '54, treasurer. 
A \:ariety of activities are being formulated for club get-togethers which will include not only tlie alumni but their families as well. 
—JOHN A. MURPHY, Sec>-. 

San Gabriel Valley 
.•\n Old-Fashioned Fourth of July family picnic was held bv San Gabriel Club alumni on Thursday July 4, 19^. 
Tlic whole family, children, grandditldrcn, parents and grandparents, joined in the family picnic and swim party at SID SIDENF.^DEN's home in .Arcadia, Calif. 
The Fourth of July spirit was captured in the inritalion: "Bring your best patriotism, listen to band music from the bandstand, and enjoy being an American." 
—DON BRADY, Sco". 

Tri-Cities 
(Ed Note: The Iowa-Illinois Club area originally known as the Tri-Citics — for Davenport, ^loline and Rock Island — has grown to include other ccmmunitics and to be called Quad- or Quint-Cities. Tlic Notr« Dame Club of the Quad-Cities will be iti future designation. JL) 
Universal Notre Dame Night — This annual event was held at the Outing Club in Davenport, lou'a. REV. JOHN 0\VAN.\UGH, past president of the University addressed the club members and guests. .•\t the conclusion of the program the club presented Father Cavanaugli a check for $200 for the Uni­versity. 
Tlie new officers of the Quad-Cily Club were announced, and thev arc as follows: President, ROBERT CORYN; X'lce-Prcsident, THONUS BRITT; Secretarv-Treasurer, J.AMES CRAWFORD; New Directors, DR. JOHN BISHOP, JOHN NO­LAN, and JACK BUSH; Returning Directors, >nKE UNDERWOOD and PETE LOUSBERG. 
ERIE — Stars of last ApriPs Universal 
Notre Dame Night in Erie, Pa., included 
(from left): Afsgr. Ennis A. Connelly, 
chaplain; John McCormick, past president; 
and Coach Hugh Devore, special guest. 
Annual Picnic — Tliis event was scheduled for June 29th at Indian BIufTs Park, Molinc, Illinois. One feature of this e\'ent is a softball game be­tween the alumni and current students of the University. 
Notre Dame Stag — WIl be held .August 30th at Camp Demal, Molinc, Illinois. —J. E. CRAWFORD, Sccy-Treas. 
Tucson 
Almost 100 alumni, guests, friends and alumni au.\itiar>* celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night at the popular HiwayHouse Motel in Tucson, Ari­zona. JOHN JORD.AN, Irish basketball coacli was the guest and gave the gathering a very thorough rundown on the University's growth in both athletics and scholastics. Just prior to the affair Jordan appeared on Tucson's most popular telexision sports program, emanating from the local CBS outlet. 
—BUDDY GOLDM.A.N, Secy. 

Washington, D.C. 
A Family Communion Breakfast was held by the Notre Dame Club of Washington on Sundav, May 19, at Holy Cross College. FR. GREGORY STE\'ENS spoke on "Paccm in Terris," the last encyclical of Pope John XXIII, and color movies were provided for the children. AL VEROSTEK was chairman of the event. 
Western Washington 
A record attendance of 156 alumni, wives and friends of the Notre Dame Club of Western Wash* ington were present to hear F.ATHER THEODORE HESBURGH at the 40th Universal Notre Dame Night at the Windjammer Restaurant, Seattle, Washington, April 24, 1963. Fatlicr Hcsburgh re­ported on the progress of the University and said "Catholic intellectual life at the University of Notre Dame will keep in pace with the growth and de­velopment of cixilization." Father Hesburgh pre­sented the "Man of the Year" award to DON ZECH, *54, for his excellences In young adult education. Don coached Seattle's Blanchet High Scliool basketball team to State victory in 1963. 
Among the dignitaries in attendance were the Most Rex'erend Tliomas E. Gill, V.G., .AtLxiliary Bbhop of Seattle and Rt. Rev. Msgr. Philip H. Duffy, Superintendent of Parochial Scliools, Seattle and Club Chaplain. 
Tlie events of the evening were presented by EMMETT LENIHAN, '15. master of ceremonies: CHARLES OSBORN, '38, Foundation report; D.AN CONLEY, *28 chairman, Man of the Year Com­mittee; and FRED HOOVER, '43, president's report. The success of the meeting is attributed to the cliair­man TOM M.AY, '55, and his committee: BOB .MORTENSEN, '52; AL TOTH, '49; MILLARD BATTLES, '54, '55; and BILL HERBER, '58. 
A noon lunclieon for civic and business leaders honoring Father Hesburgh was held in the OI>'mpic Hotel following a TV, radio, and ne^vspaper press conference. 
Tlie club held a June 8, 1963, dance at the 
U.S. Na\y Pier 91 and held a Football Trip and ticket drawing for the Notre Damc-Stanford game at San Francisco, Oct. 26, 1963. 
—MILLARD T. B.ATTLES, JR., Secy. 

Youngstown 
The Youngstown-Warren Alumn! Club held its Universal Notre Dame Night on Tuesday, .April 16, at the Youngstown Country Club. Our speaker for the evening was .Alumni President, OLIVER HUNTER. 
Tliere were 80 in attendance, including parents of several students attending the University. Among the special guests that I introduced were John Horney, a recipient of a football scholarship, and hii parents. Both John and his parents told us that they were vcrv* much impressed with the alumni aH'airs. 
The officers considered it a most successful Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. —CHARLES J. .McCRUDDEN, JR., Prcs. 
DETROIT — John R. Panelli, former AIl-American and pro football star, now president of the ND Club of Detroit, greets two of 70 "coed" nuns who ivcre the only women present among 500 men for UND Night in April at Cobo Hall: (from left) Sister Mary Frederick, R.S.M.; and Mother Gene\-icve, O.P. At center, Joseph M. McDaniel, secretary of the Ford Foundation, delivers the principal address before a replica of the Golden Dome constructed by General Motors designers. In the last picture, outgoing Club President Jerry Ashley, (left) congratulates ND Man of the Year John T. Higgins, while the Universit>''s executive rice-president registers approval as a guest from the campus. 
26 Noire Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 
REUNION 1963 . . . THE CLASSES 
1913 (L): Who said '13 is unlucky? The Golden Boys were there in force, relaxing with guests from nearby classes at the Morris Inn and sufFering a slight depletion in ranks for the photograph at the old Library after early Mass next a.m. 
1918 (XLV): The 45th of '18 was a fitting dress rehearsal for the Golden Jubilee in 1968, with a businesslike 'changing of the guard" among Class ofGccrs and the laying of groundwork for a five-year campaign to produce a record 50th. 
mli 

^si 
1923 (XL): The large delegation of 40-year men made a rare appearance on campus Saturday, preferring to hold their internal observances in the luxury and pri\°acy of the South Bend Country Club with shuttle buses from the Circle, returning to the Spartan atmosphere of Aliunni Hall for Mass celebrated by each of the Class' Holy Cross Fathers. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 27 
\¥' 
^r . k^. i 

1928 (XXXV): The most relentlessly organized of the Notre Dame Classes has lost little of the teamwork and spirit^ demonstrated ten years ago at the record-setting Silver Jubilee. A crowded program of events and a sprightly series of promotional mailings brought a representative group to \iew mones of past glory and add to that film record. 
REUNION 1963 . . . THE CLASSES 
.ATOMIC ENERGY leadership at the Class THE GROTTO, visited by night, reflects .ART GALLERY of '28, one of several of '28 dinner included (from left) Buckley, an imchanging Notre Dame. At right is new-Lyons Hall dbpiays, boasts the long gay line Phalin, .Allan, Quinn. Class President Garber. of Class posterity. 
COLLEGE LUNCHEONS at the Morris Inn (Dutch treat, of course) were one of the special facets of the SSth. Lawyers journalists, architects, engineers and Commerce grads disdained the chicken box liinches on the quads for quieter private meals and a chance to talk shop with professional peers and a few of their favorite profs. ' ' 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 
• ' \ 

"V::'-:V.-'7.  
.-/. '  ••• s  -J-.  
."•\"'  
f  I'  
What happened to the ivy?  
^'-\  
.;  y  -^  ^  
TIME OUT... REUNION  •  ,  /  /  
By  
Copyright 1963, Editorial Projects far Education, Inc. All rights-reserved.  /i : /» J / \ !ll\\^  
Good old v^hat's-his-name.  

•\> 
^1,- ... •-.• 

The old room: revisited. 
A The profc.are getting younger, .  
The forgotten grip.  
o°Oo°  /  7 \ ' ,V  
\­ ^  

The Prof who flunked him and would do it again.  
Presenting ihe young hopeful  
to the director of admissions.  
•..\>  
':\-i  (  T  ,  I.N- •••/ t  •  -^":: ,w--\  -^^ '" • i ,  • •  '  '• ­ •-r  
^-.^^^--'.•"-'^^  I  ;•'  
•• !  >r\  I v;  K  
•'•:  1  
A­ :.'r-.^­.  
V  1  

: -, V/ • . -i'f,:k^ :^- •' >^^':•'^;^i•'V 
The campus policeman with the long memory. 
:/• 

vA 
t-'. 
\ • s-
N­V-' ', 
• \!< 

L I •­
Seminar out-of-season.  
The unspoken question: (could we meet the entrance requirements .. . now?) 7  
•••' /  
') / /  
\ • ­'  
/ . • / Re-evaluation.  
. \ . ,•  

Gaudeamus igitur; iuvenes dum sumus. 
REUNION 1963 . . . THE CLASSES 
1938 (XXV): The Silver Jubilee Class celebrated in carnival style, with such gimmicks as bus tours and a side show spiel by Dr. Edward Cronin, a Las Vegas casino in the Rocline Memorial, a funny photo gallery, banners and bagpipes. They also came close to establishing a record for 25-ycar attendance with program and refreshments managed by Don Hickey. 
JAIME GOMEZ of Manizales, Colombia, one of several who traveled over 3,000 miles for the 25th, greets Father Joyce, host at the President's Luncheon. Father Hesburgh, a member of the Jubilee Class, was detained at Northwestem's Com­mencement exercises until that evening. 
COACH KUHARICH, who had resigned to take an executive position with the National Football League, spent many hours in recollection of his '33-'37 playing days at the Monogram Day and '38 Reunion with teammates, classmates and cronies. Joe had been too busy for this since '58. 
TRICK PHOTOS were fea­LOCAL COMMITTEE members particularly feted newly ordained Jade Anton and newly, tured at the '38 Penny Arcade. liberated Joe Kuharich. From left, are President Chuck Sweeney, Chaimian Ed Cronin, "O'Coimor never looked so Treasurer Jacob Burke, Secretary Bumie Bauer,.Kuharich, Fr. Anton, Don':Hickey. good!" 
Notre Dame. Al't'nnuss August-September, 1963 33 
1933 (XXX): In spite of the descriptive Roman numerals, the 30th Anniversary Class relied on more than strong spirits for their celebration. Charlie Farris and other leaders (some of them shown plotting at right) arranged a program with such \-ariation as special tours, sports niories, and musical rirtuosity on the piano and electronic organ to spur conviviality. 
REUNION 1963 . . . THE CLASSES 
1943 (XX): Bill Barley's pizza-packing paratroops added color to the quads, both with their blue-and-gold golfing tams and their authentic Italian food. 
6 . 1^/1 -^^^^s^ 
t'<\^\ 

1948 (XV): Ignoring a disappointing attrition In attendance, the '48 W.W. II "vet set" so thoroughly immersed themselves in the wcdiend that it was hard for the camera to run them down. These separate studies of the early risers and late carousers still failed to turn up a few golfers, plus such immortals as Z. P. Czarobsid, G. J. Hekker, Homer Foote. 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 
-Mr. and Mrs. DONALD L. LEONE, '57, a assistant United Stales district attorney for the daughter. Brownsville (Texas) district. He was a veteran of .Mr. and Mrs. JOHN D. MOYNAHAN, JR., '57, "W.Vf. I and a member of the bar associations in a daughter, Patricia Ann. June 26, 1963. Harris, Nueces and Cameron counties and the Sons of Texas Revolution. He is survived by his wife 
Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE J. O'CONNELL, 
Wlbert, and seven children, two sons, Harry *58 
'57, a son, Timothy James, May 7, 1963. 
Classes 
and Peter '60 N.D. grads. .Mr. and -Mrs. GERALD TRAFFICANDA, '57, a 
VINCENT D . CAVANAUGH, '23, of Syracuse, 
daughter, Marie Celeste, May 28, 1963. 
New York, died June 18, 1963, according- to word 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Miss Eleanoi Ann Brunjcs and EDWARD M. FOX, '55. Miss Anne Carol O'Brien and OWEX EDMUND DESMOND III, '57. Miss Louise Ann \VcssIin3 and AhhAS J.AMES MALVICK, '57. -Miss Phyllis Margaret Bloechcl and PAUL KYTE BOYD, '58. Miss Frances Katlirjn Keller and R.\LPH V. CAP.ASSO, JR., '58. .Miss Judith Marie Dcttor and OMCAM J. ABOOD, '60. y,Us Judith Eva Scwcll and 2nd Lt. JOSEPH FRANCIS COOPER, '60. Miss Paula Jane Kec to ALEXANDER HOR­V.ATH, '60. .Miss Mary Elizabeth Cain and PAUL ARTHUR RIFFEL, '60. -MUs Patricia Ann Byrd and Lt. ROBERT CHARLES DcMEESTER, '61. Miss Kathleen Ann Quinlan and DON.ALD LAURENCE ORTH. '61. Miss Joni Kay Lindale and ROBERT WALTER WILLI.AMSON, JR., '61. -Miss Anne Lacey and JAMES .McALLISTER BE.VNAX, '62. Miss .Ann Bennett and WILLIAM J. BRUT\'AN, JR., '62. .Mbs Molly Helenc O'Brien and DONALD LAWRENCE CRIQUI, '62. Miss Donna Camille Carioscia and MATTHEAV HENRY .McCLOSKEY IV, '63. Miss Jane Marie Moskvvinslc: and JOHN J. WILBER, JR., '63. 
MARRIAGES 

.Miss Nancj- Quinn and PETER JAMES STURTE­V.ANT, '56, New York City. -Miss Joan D. Haenn and WILLIAM T. GAUL, '57, Haverford, Pa., May II, 1953. Miss Brooke Lee Claridgc and JOHN BURNS, '58, Portland, Oregon, March 23, 1963. 
Miss Eileen Anne Gannon and JOSEPH THOMAS KENNEY, '59, Jersey City, New Jersey, May 4, 1963. 
Miss Dorothy Norinnc Patterson and P.AUL .ALEXANDER BARELA, '60, Houston, Tc-tas, June I, 1963. 
MUs Susan Bailey and PATRICK F. KANE, '60, Notre Dame, Indiana, April 27, 1963. Miss Mar\- Ann Grabowski and LAWRENCE PAHL, '60, Chicago, Illinois, May, 1963. Miss Carol>-n Lee Frepan and PAUL JACQUES 
CLULO, '62, Notre Dame, Indiana, June 15, 1963. Miss Maurine Lynne Bale and JOHN RICHARD KOVACS, '62, Clifton, Ne«- Jersey, .May 18, 1963. 
Miss Carol Sue Thomas and THEODORE A. ROMANOWSKI, '62, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Miss Joyce Marie Longfellow and JOHN FRED­ERICK RICCI, '63, South Bend. Indiana, June 8. 1963. 
BIRTHS 

^tr. and .Mrs. WILLIAM P. MAHONEY, '38, a daughter, Noel Fitzgerald, April 17, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN WIGGINS, '43, a son, Ed­ward .Anthony, May 28, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM J. XUZ.ANEC, '48, a son, .April, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. GERALD S. .MURPHY, '49, a daughter, Mary Elizabeth, May 7, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. RAY.MOND J. SULLIVAN, '50, a daughter, Bridget, April 24, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. ALLAN JUDE POWERS, '51, a son, Patrick O'Keefe, June 12, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. G. JIM WIGGINS, JR., '53, a daughter, Maureen Cccila, May 6, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN T. MASSMAN, '56, a daughter, Karen Marie, May 10, 1963. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM P. DOWDALL, '59, a son, Mark Patrick, June 26, 1963. Mr. and -Mrs. ROBERT .MURPHY, '59, a son, Martin Cunningham, May 2, 1963. .Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH F. JANSEN, '60, a son Michael Gerard, May 25, 1963. Mr. and -Mrs. EDWARD T. KENNEDY, '60, a daughter, Sharon Mary, June 1, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. ALBIN W. SABAL, "60. twin sons, April, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN THILMAN, '60, a son, David .Andrew, January 15, 1963. Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN G. CHRISTI.AN, '61, a son, John Gregorj-, Jr., March 5, 1963. Mr. and Mrs. J. -MICHAEL WHITE, '61, a daughter, Maura Kelly, June 20, 1953. 
SYMPATHY 

JOHX D. IGOE, '28, on the death of his mother, April, 1963. ROBERT F. EGGEM.-VN, '30, on the death of his mother, April 3. 1963. LOUIS E. CHREIST, JR., '33, on the death of his wife, April 16, IS63. JAMES F. DOYLE, '33, on the death of his mother, June 19, 1963. 
RICHARD S. SMITH, '37, on the death of his father-in-law, Louis S. Glascr, May 19, 1963. WILLIAM P. McCVRTHY, '38, on the death of his father, May 3, 1S63. WILLIA.M F. KERWIX, JR., 'AO, on the death of his father, April 24, 1963. EDWARD RODGERS. M6, on the death of his wife, April 18, 1963. PATRICK H. MEEXAX, '49, on the death of his mother, April 16, 1963. 
JOX S. KUBLAK, '57, on the death of his father. 
May 25, 1963. 
RONALD N. LORENZINI, '57, on the death of 
his father, June, 1963. 
RICHARD, '57, JOSEPH, '59, and -MICH-\EL MEINERT, '63, on the death of their father, Mardi 5, 1963. 
JOSEPH .M. KRUPP, JR., '60, on the death of his father. May, 1963. 
DEATHS 

MARCELLUS LIXDSEY JOSLYN, '93, died July I, 1963, in his home in Bel Air, California. Mr. Joslyn founded Joslyn Manufacturing and Supply Co., manufacturers of telephone and pole line equip­ment, in 1902. Sur\*ivor5 include three sons and a daughter. 
Hon. MICHAEL L. FANSLER, '05, a justice of the Indiana Supreme Court during most of the 1930s and 1940s, died June 26. 1963, in Indianapolis. Judge Fanslcr was a former Cass County (Ind.) prosecutor. 
LOUIS F. EICK, '14, of Martins Fcrr>-, Ohio, died in June 1963. He was president of the Fenray Photoplay Co. Sur\'ivors include his wife Blanche, three sisters, a daughter, a brother and two grand­children. 
FATHER E. VLNXENT MOOXEY, '16, died July 9, 1963, at the home of his sister, Mrs. John McAllister of South Bend, Ind. Father Mooney's credits arc many: he baptized KNUTE ROCKXE, was first director of the Youth Department, Na­tional Catholic Welfare Council, serx'ed as prefect of religion at St. Edward's University, was head of the physical education department at Notre Dame, was principal of St. Thomas Military Academy, St. Paul, Minn., and ser\'ed as Army chaplain during 
W.W. n . In recent years he was pastor of Holy Ro5ar>' Church in Columbus, Ohio, and director of youth actinties in the diocese. In 1949 Pope Pius XII awarded him the Benemerent! Medal in rec­ognition of his ser\*icc to Catholic youth. 
RT. REV. MSGR. CHARLES ALFRED MAR­TIN, '17, of St. Colman's Church in Cleveland, Ohio, died according to word received in the .-Mumni Office. 
BRIAN S. ODEM, '17, died June 5. 1963, in St. Joseph's Hospital, Houston, Texas. He spent 28 years in government ser\*ice, retiring last year as received in the .Alumni Office. His wife survives. 
ED^fUND C. TSCHUDI, '23, died February 27. 
1963. No other' details were received on the death 
of Mr. Tschudi, who was from Dubuque, Iowa. 
PAUL E. JACKSON, '23, formerly of South Bend, 
died May 14, 1963, at his residence in Detroit. Paul 
was a retired market analyst for the Ford Motor 
Company. He is sur\ived by his widow Agnes and 
several cousins. 
LEONARD .M. HESS, '25, died May 29, 1963. 
At one time Lcn was president of Notre Dame Club 
of San Antonio, Texas. He is survived by his wife 
Mary, 3 daughters, 3 sons, a sbtcr and 7 grand­
children. 
JOHN F. STOKELY, '25, of Chicago, died July 
4, 1963. John, a retired advertising executive, was 
former president of the Midwest VHF club, an 
organization of ham radio operators. Surviving are 
his widow Lucia, a daughter, two grandchildreii 
and a sister. 
SISTER M. ROBERTUS WETHINGTON, 
O.S.U., '25, died J une 19, 1963, according to word 
received in the Alumni Office. No details. 
JOHN C. "Ty" BULGER, '26, died June 15, 
1963, at his home in Chicago. Ty was the Midwest 
sales manager for the ^fanhattan Refrigerator Co. 
of New York City, and a member of the Chicago 
Scrra Club. He leaves his widow Rose, and two 
sisters. 
JOSEPH ^V. TATHA^f, '26, Grand Blanc, Michi­
gan, died February 23, 1963. No other details were 
received in the .Alumni Office. 
Dr. ED^VARD J. ^LVYER, *27, of Joliet, Illinob, 
died according to ^vord received in the .Alumni 
Office. No details. 
AVILLIAM R. BLEWrrr, '27, died February 2, 
1962, in Baltimore, Md., according to word received 
from his widow. He was associated with the Indus­
trial Relations Division of Westinghouse Electric 
Corp. He was a member of the Baltimore Safety 
Council, the National Safely Council, and was 
representative of Westinghouse of Baltimore at the 
President's Conferences on Occupational Safctv in 
1950 and 1956. 
EDMUND MICHAEL O'DON.NELL, '33, LLB *34, of Batana, New York, died according to word sent to the Alumni Office. No detaib. 
A. FRANCIS Vl'lT, *34, a supervisory accountant with the Department of the Army, died April 15, 1963, of a heart attack. He was a member of the Government's Accountants' Association, the American Society of Miliiarx* Controllers, the .Array Finance Organization and the Knights of Columbus. In 1962 he was chosen credit union treasurer of the year by the Virginia Credit Union. He leaves his wife Doris, who is still living in their home in .Arlington, Va., two sons, a daughter and his mother. 
JOHN JOSEPH THULIS, '38, of Chicago, Illinois, died June 9, 1963, of a heart attack. His wife died in May after an illness of five years. Six children, from nineteen years to five years in age, survive. 
JAMES J. GREEN, '39, office and personnel administrator of the .American Society for Testing and Materials, died suddenly June 18, 1963, in Philadelphia, Pa. He resided in Rosemont, Pa. He was past-president of the Michiana Chapter of the National Office Management .Assn.; at the national level of NOM.A, he served as chairman of the Publicity Committee, and this year he ser\'ed as chairman of the National Research Committee. He was abo chairman of the Board of Public Safety, Nilcs, Mich., vice-president of the Home School Council, and held memberships in the International Council of Industrial Editors and the ^Cchiana Industrial Communicators Council. He is survived by his wife Stella, a son and daughter, his mother, two sisters and a brother. 
LOUIS A. WOLF, '41, died .April 21, 1963, in Porter Memorial Hospital, Valparaiso, Ind.^ after an illness for the past year. He was employed by the McGilt Manufacturing Co. as its chief accountant for the last 17 years. Lou was a member of the Valparaiso Library Board, \*ice-president of the Porter County Tuberculosis Assn., a member of the American Legion and Knights of Columbus. Sur­viving arc his wife Natalie, two daughters and a son. 
DONALD T. BROCKMAN, '49, of Cindnnatii Ohio, died May 5, 1S63. He was electrocuted while repairing the family swimming pool. There were no other details on his death. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 1963 
JOSEPH J. FREDUNI, '52, died April 13, 1963, in Mtlu-aukee after a lingcnng illness. He is sur­lived by his wife Patricia *vho lives in Grccndale, ^Visconsin. 
DANIEL P. BO\\XIXG, '60, died October 3, 

19^, as a result of an automobile accident. He was 
associated with his father in running the Xorth%\'est 
Cattle Co., Oeltvein, Iot«'a. His parents and a 
brother William, '63, sur\-ivc. 
NORET FLOOD, '61, died in Texas according to 

word received in the Alumni Office. The only other 
knou'n information is that his father Xorct E., Sr. 
survives. 
BERNARD J. 0'CALLAGH.AN, JR., '62, died 

February 6, 1963, of a recurring illness. Bemle was 
a student at the University of Virginia Law School, 
and at his death was home In Sands Point, Long 
Island, for a semester break. He is sur\Ived by his 
parents and SL\ brothers and sisters. 
50-YEAR CLUB 

' REUNIO.V REGISTRANTS: 1900—\\7LLUXI G. FERSTEL; 1906—FATHER CHARLES COREMUS, CS.a, LEONARD F. SMITH; 1908—FRANK X. CULL; I91I—FRED L. STEERS; I9I2—FRED H. MEIFELD; 1913—CLYDE E. BROUSSARD, ^ML­LLAM J. CORCORAN, JAMES R. DEVHT, FR. ALLAN HEISER, C.S.C., JESSE HERR, HARRY 
J. KIRK, WILLIAM J. MILROY, JAMES F. O'BRIEN, JAMES W. O'HARA, ED ROACH, ROBERT SCHINDLER, FRED WILLLAMS. 
Papal honors for former VERY REV. PATRICK 

A. B.^RRY, V.F., were announced In May in Bur­lington, Vermont, by His Excellencj- Bishop Joyce. Father Barry was named Domestic Prelate •with the title of Right Rev. Monsignor. Monsignor Barry graduated from X.D. in I9I2, and took his theological studies at the Grand Seminary in Mon­treal, P.Q., Canada. Monsignor has been dean of the Windham-Windsor District (Vt.) since 1953. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Since this is the last column for the Class of 

1913 as such, it %vould have been nice to include 
a paragraph on each of the 13 stalwarts who gath­
ered for the Golden Jubilee — as if to s>Tnbolize 
a great numeral. But unfortunately Class Scribe 
PAUL BYRNE was not among the luck\- 13. 
JIM ARMSTRONG tvas, as usual, M.C. of the opening "Traditions" Dinner in the Morris Inn's Golfers' Lounge, at w*hlch the men of '13 nearly outnumbered their many guests, including their juniors of the Class of '18 
To CLYDE BROUSSARD, the rice baron of Beaumont, Texas, goes all the credit for rallying such an impressive group (about 20 percent of the Class) at the last organized reunion with a last-minute letter. Maybe he or another classmate will supply a little "color" on the gathering for the 50-year column, so that the Class will be en­couraged to attend again as a body next year — and from now on! 
1914 
Walter L. Clements 
623 Park Ave. 
South Bend, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTRANTS POYNTELLE DOWNING, EUGENE A. ("NIG") K.ANE. 
^Vord has been received 
bv vour Class Secrctar\' 
that TWOMEY M. CLIF­
FORD is already making 
plans to return to the 
campus next June for the 
50th Anniversary of the 
graduating Class of 1914. 
He has been a frequent 
visitor at former alumni 
gatherings during the past 
decade, and attended many 
of the Notre Dame foot­
ball games played in the 
deep South. 

Twomey has just completed his first year of a four-year term of office as Municipal Judge of the City of Camden, Ark.; having retired as a member of the legal department of International Paper Company in 1960, after serving In that capacity for a period of 19 years. Prior to his emplo>-mcnt with the Paper Company, Clifford served as a Special Agent of the FBI for 8 years with Offices of Assignment on the West Coast. During his 
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 
FORT LAUDERDALE —R t Rev. Msgr. 
Giles Allais, retired chaplain, was named ND Man of the Year for his spiritual ser\*ices to the Lauderdale Club and the community last May. Shou-n (l.-r.) arc Msgr. Allais; Frank Carey '46, vice-prea­dcnt; Don Dorini '53, president, making the a^^-ard; Dave Moss '56, treasurer; and Bob McDonough '52, Lauderdale secretary. 
tenure of the practice of Ia*v, he served two terms as City Attorney of Camden, and two terms as Deputy Prosecuting Attorney of Quachlta County, Arkansas. He is married to the former Ruth £. Gaughan of Camden, and they are the parents of two children; tliey have 7 grandchildren. Inci­dentally, he is a brother-in-law of A. R. (ART) CARMODY, a former baseball Monogram man of the .V.D. Class of 1915. 
ClIfTord is a World War One veteran, and a former Commander of the Robert W. Jackson Post of the .American Legion of Camden. He is looking forward to the Reunion with his classmates come June 1964. 
Not so many years after the turn of the century, 1906 to be exact, WILLIAM POYNTELLE DOWN­ING came to Notre Dame University- from grade school to enter as a freshman prep. After finishing the preparatory school which Notre Dame had In those days, he stayed on until he graduated In law In '14. That qualified him to be called by his schoolmates a 'lifer* as the term was then used for such personages as the late WILLIAM COTTER »13 and JASPER LA^VTON 'II of South Bend. 
Poynt has changed so little since he graduated from college, now going on to fifty years ago, that it is difficult to dlstingtiish how he looked now and then when he was called the most t\-pical all-round college man in his class by the '14 Dome. Since the writer had something to do with getting it out as ass't editor, we know it was not just because he did such an excellent job as its business manager. 
While Po>*nt was taking law under Colonel Ho>-nes. he was also organist for Notre Dame's Churcli of the Sacred Heart. He was tutored for this ac­complishment by none other than the late FATHER MICHAEL SHE.A who wrote the music to the famed *Victor>' Marcli.* Tlic words were written by Father Shea's brother, John. 
During World War I. Poynt earned the coveted Silver Anchor on account of being commissioned in the navy at Annapolis. He served on the U.S.S. Arizona of Pearl Harbor mcmor>-. At that time, it u-as commanded by Capt. Dayton who, after he became a Rear Admiral, spent his years of retire-meat in the mansion he built across from St. Joseph hospital In South Bend. 
After his tour of duty in World War I, Poynt began practicing law in his home town of Decatur, 111., and novv heads the law firm of Downing, Smith, Jorgenson & Uhl. He has a son with the law firm, and so has Mr. Uhl, which makes four 
N.D. graduates with the firm. Mr. Dou-nlng, junior member, is ^^^LLIAM T. DOWNING, '57. 
Poynt, in practicing lavv, has held many posi­tions of honor. For eight years he was head of the Securities and Loan Dept. of the Securities Commission of Illinois and during the last six years has been a director "in the Home Loan Bank of Chicago. 
In addition to tlieir son, the Iaw>-er and Mrs. Downing, whose maiden name was Ruth Lavery, have two daughters. 
1963 
We regret to hear of the recent death of LOUIS 
F. EICK, '14. His widow resides at 923 Virginia St., Martins Ferry, Ohio. Also we belatedly re-ceix-ed word of the death of FRANCIS G. MOONEY, '14, who died in '62. He studied Latin and Greek with some of us under Father Michael 
Oswald. 
1915 
Albert A. Kuble 117 S. Sunset Ave. La Grange, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRANTS JOSEPH KENNY, EDWARD F. RIELY. 

1916 
Grover F. Miller 220 9th Street Racing Wisconan 
FATHER MOONEY 

For a man who loved Notre Dame so mucli and who talked so engagingly about It on ever>' possible occasion, Father E. Vincent Mooney 
(LL.B. 1916) got to spend precious few years here. 
Friends therefore were quick to say when news of his sudden death came on July 9, "Isn't it wonderful that he had come home In time?" 
Just short weeks before, he had wound up af­fairs as a parish priest in Columbus, O., and re­turned to Notre Dame. He was at\*aiting assign­ment by Holy Cross superiors when death came of a heart attack as he visited a sister. Mrs. John W. McAllister, in South Bend. The funeral Mass at 
Sacred Heart Church July 12 i^'as followed by burial In the community cemetery at Notre Dame. Father Mooney u-as 70. 
It was Father Mooney who instructed and bap­tized Knute Rockne In the Catholic faith in 1925. They had been friends since student da>'S. 
From 1923 to 1929 Father Moone>' u'as director of physical education and of the Department of Physical Education at Notre Dame. He was four years at St. Edv\'ard's University, .\ustln, Tex., and two years principal of St. Thomas Milltarv* .Academy, St. Paul, Minn., before his pioneer interest in tlie Catholic youth movement led him on to the national scene. 
He organized and was head of the Youth De­partment, National Catholic Welfare Conference, for eight years, and executive sccretarj- of the National Catholic Youth Council. 
In recognition of his ser^'ice to Catholic youth, Pope Pius XII in 1949 awarded Father Mooney the Benemerenti Medal. 
He was a member and chaplain of the Mono­gram Club (baseball), had been business manager of the Dome and grand knight of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus council. 
He volunteered for chaplain's duty and served four years in the European theater during World War II. There followed fourteen years of youth work and parish duty in the Columbus diocese. 
NOTES: 

1.
 In the leather case m which Father Xfooney kept his war souvenirs — campaign ribbons, battle stars, patches, major's insignia, etc., I found a medal which reads: **Cadct Corps University of Notre Dame — Best Captain 1916." For txvo years his company was honored as best of the four in the Cadet regiment. 

2.
 On page 213 of the 1915 Dome is a photo scene of a student production of a **GirI of the Golden West" in Washington Hall. At one end of the tabic sits Jose Castro, "ex-padroma of the bull fights and horse breaker, now with Ramerrcz's Band of Road Agents." That's Vincent Mooncy. At the other end of the table sits beskirted, beshawlcd, bepigtailed "Wockle the Fox, Bucking Billy's squaw." That's Knute Rockne, then a graduate student and coach, .. . ED BRENN.VN. 


1917 
Edward J. McOskcr 523 N. Melrose Ave. Elgin, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRANT WILLIAM GRADY. 

1918 
Charles W. CaU 225 Paterson Ave. Hasbrouck Heights, New- Jersey 
REUNION REGISTR.\NT3 


WILLUM J. ANDRES, EDWIN T. BREEN, CHARLES W. CALL, LEO COOK, GEORGE E. HARBERT, REV. GEORGE HOLDERITH, C.S.C., JOHN LEMMER, PETER J. RONCHETTI, FR.AXK X. RYDZEWSKI, JOHN VOELKERS. GEORGE WAAGE, LOUIS E. WAGNER, DR. NEIL UHALEN, REV. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS. 
From the .Alumni OfHce: 
^Ve have a final letter to the editor from retiring Secretary- CHARLES CALL. As president of the Class, wc know he will do as fine a Job for his classmates as ever. 
20 June, 1963 ^'Dear John: 
".. . I was mighty glad that I could get to the Reunion after the hurried flight from Europe. I would not have missed it for the world. 
". . . I thought it most generous of JOHN LEMMER to nominate me for the presidency of the Class. In 1918 he was president and I was vice-president, and here wc are approaching a half century of regard for one another. 
*"You may not know the new secretary — GEORGE AVAAGE. 3305 ^Vrightwood Ave., Chi­cago 47, III. — but you will find him a very nice person. I have wxitten him and I know you Avill make iiim feel he is one of the team. 
^'Incidentally, we both ran the mile for ND, which seems like a coincidence at this adv*anced date. He was much the better runner. I would have enjoyed being there Thursday for the Mono­gram outing but simply could not make it. . . . 
Cordially yours, 
Charles W. Call" 

May we remind all of you 'ISers to remain in touch w-ith your new secretary so that all may enjoy the Column. 
1921 
Dan Duflfy 1101 Superior Bidg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
Dan has sent three letters for publication that he thought would be of interest to his classmates. The letters are all of April, 1963, \'intage, but had to be withheld for publication in this issue. 
From Joseph R. Brandy to George C. Witteried: Dear George: 
I have before me a letter from CHARLES "JOCK" MOONEY of Memphis, Tcnn. He was concerned regarding the death of BILL FITZ. Wanted to know more as a result of your letter to him. . Fitz ^%*a5 .the old clam as far as I was con­cerned and as far as anyone for all that matter. He never did tell me anything. I did find out though he made himself a small pile if not larger in the natural gas business. He lived in Tyler, Texas, The only information I could get was from a lad who lived in Tyler and knew Fitz slightly. Didn't want to get too nosey but that is what I found out, including the fact that he sponsored a colored caddie through Harvard who got a law degree. If Jock could find out who the colored boy was he could make out well. 
So your wasted youth is showing up, eh? The new plumbing and you are now retired. How come? You want to go crazy? And you are going to play a lot of golf. How do I know? Jock en­closed your letter. Have a good time and if you are in this section I'll knock your ears down off the tee, around the greens or in the sand traps where I never am. See Kelley now and then. He just left for the Continent and Rome. Wants to make sure he makes it I guess. His wife after 12 years of being bedridden finally died last winter. He had quite a time. You have 7 grandchildren. YouVe chicken — I have nine. Regards to any of the gang you run into. 
Joe Dear Joe: 
It has taken me a long time to catch up with that hobbyhorsical and eflicient retirement you have been riding with since you met up with "^^aIachi'* (B.C.) and I don't mean Gooley who you \vell know also had a penchant for taking life easy. 
Well Joe it was good to hear from you — Jock — is he guilt)'. Mooney and Rip Van Winkle Duffy. 
It's tough for the class secretary when he has to depend on the remnants of the Class of 1921 to get some news items. Now that he is out of the Democratic Sanctum Sanctorum and the spring training session for the politicians, he can sit in with some volunteer reporters who would rather nibble on the Secretary's hip. Early times — in preference to pen and pencil even if the ex­treme efforts might hold the Secretary in his honorable and highly paid ofiice for life. After slight censoring, I mailed you a letter to Dan together with a copy of this. BELL ALLEN and I continue to see each other quite often. JUDGE BARRY lives close by but has given up exercising except when he is forced to the \vinner's H-indow to collect at that famous and his favorite pastime. LARRY MORGAN is well equipped and equili­brated toward the same exercise as the Judge. He just got back from Hot Springs, Ark., where he was getting in shape for the 187 da>*s with the nags in Chicago, where he will be seen regularly at the tract reunions. The above mentioned will be at the Chicago Universal Night April 30th together with others from the Class whom I do not see quite so often. 
My older son George Jr., ND 1949, is teaching 
EASTERN INDIANA —James F. Halligan '30 (right), Muncie attorney, receives the 1963 award as ND Man of the Year from 
W. F. "Bill" Craig, retiring president and 1962 recipient, at the Eastern Indiana UND Night dinner last May 20 in Muncie. 
in the school of business at Michigan State, and Peter, West Point 1954, is now a Captain in Artillery. He is presently assigned to the University of Virginia to get a Master's In International Relations. 
I am hoping we have had all the bad news m the Class of 1921 — and all accounted for now — ^Vtll get Into the reporting act and give Dan enough to do to keep him au-ay from that Early Time De­partment, and as for you, please don't try to sell him a piece of that same racing "Pegasus" you touted the last time out. Regards to all. 
George My dear Mr. Duffy: 
Your letter of the 28th of March with copies of letters from Jim Armstrong telling of the deaths of two of the members of the class of '21 — received. 
I deeply regret that I must tell you of the death of my husband on October 20th, 1962. The Alumni Ofiice and Foundation Office are both aware of this — but apparently there is some mix-up, due to the volume of mail. 
Ed was ill for ten months — he was hospitalized three times from January until his death — but last summer u-as able to make a trip to Michigan to \Tsit his sister — Mrs. John Trocster, mother of DENNIS TROESTER '37 — who Is now with the 
N.D. Foundation. We drove through South Bend out to N.D. where Ed could see the Library go­ing up — and once more saw the campus he Io\-cd so dearly. Our son Jim — was graduated In 1957. cum laudc — and is tvith the National Observer In ^Vashtngton, D.C. He is married, to a St. Mary's graduate, also 1957. Our youngest son Paul is a sophomore at Notre Dame and otif daughter Ann, finished at St. Mary's In '59. She Is engaged to a young man ^vho received both his B.A. and LL.B. degrees from N.D. 
I believe that Ed loved Notre Dame nearly as much as he loved his family. He was Foundation Chairman from Rock Island, and last winter (1962) worked on it by telephone from his hospital room. How pleased he would be that the Fund Drive was a success. 
We miss him very much, but we are so proud that we had such a grand husband (and father). Ask the members of the Class of '21 to remember him in their prayers. 
Sincerely, Pauline Meagher 

1922 
G. A. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd. No. Rochester 25, N. Y. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS GEORGE G. KERVER, a A. WYNNE. 

Hearty congratulations and best ^fishes to our grand neighbors of the Class of 1923 on the occasion of their 40ih Annlversarj* celebration. Last year, when we were celebrating our 40ih .•\nniversary Reunion many of '23, Including their outstanding Class Secretary, Louis Bruggner, of South Bend, were on the campus to greet us. A very special salvo for the men of '23 is directed. 
Our deep s\'mpathy Is extended to REV. F.ATHER GEORGE B. FISCHER, C.S.C., of the Holy Cross Mission Band, Eastern Province, in the death of his beloved mother (Mrs. Lorctta McCarthy Fischer), age 88, in her home city of Rochester, N.Y., on April 12, 1963. 
In early March a most welcome letter was re­ceived from the FRANK BLOEMERS in Aripcka, Florida. Frank enclosed a magazine article he came upon titled "Lake of Gold," written and photographed by KEN KRIPPENE, N.D. '23. The lake U named Imlria and is located in Central Peru. The bed of the lake Is supposed to be well lined with gold, but author Krippene defies any­one to get it. Frank reports a visit to .Aripcka by Lucy and HAROLD ^VEBER. The Bloemers man­age to get back to Loulsrille for frequent visits. 
T . HAROLD McCABE has moved from his na­tive Rochester, N.Y., to Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. His new address is 3908 N.E. 22nd Ave., .Apt. 6N. The Class of '22 is really gaining strength in Florida. Our year-round residents in Florida now total four: FRITZ BAUMER In Jacksonville and PAUL McDEILMOTT in West. Palm Beach, In addition to Frank Bloemer and Harold McCabe. 
At Easter time, DAN YOUNG was being re­leased from St. Clary's Hospital, Rochester, ^finne­sota, where he ^vas a Mayo Brothers* patient, and underwent a cervical spine operation. In January, Dan was immobilized with a pinched ncn>'e, just as he and Mrs. Young were preparing to make a trip to .Africa. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 37 
From the Alumni OfEce: 
"Kid" mentioned HAROLD Mca-VBE's new residence in Florida, but apparently did not know the reason for his migrating. Harold, head of the central adjustment department at the Kodak Dis­tribution Center, retired after 44 years of service. He helped to found the Kodak 25-Ycar Club, and is a former president of that organization. He is a past Wee-president of the N.D. Club of Rochester (1960), former member of the Knights of Colum­bus, member of the .\merican Legion and former commander of the Rayson-MJller post. He has also been active in the membership drives for the Y.M.C.A., the Cine Music Association and the Community Chest-
JOHN PAUL CULLEX, admittedly a "Civil War bug," wrote to ask for further insight on a stamped, addressed envelope his ^vife Mar>" ac­quired at the Wisconsin Stamp Collectors' Con­vention. It was postmarked "Notre Dame, Ind-July 17** (no year). Tlie address reads: "Rev. Father Corby, Sup., Wateriown, Wis." The stamp is a Washington 3 cent of l860's nniagc. We have notified Notre Dame archivists for further sleuthing. 
1923 
Louis V. Bruggner 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Indiana 
REU.VIOX REGISTRANTS 

CORNELIUS ALT, STANLEY BRADBURY, REV. J. M. BRANNIGAN, C.S.C., FRANK ("CHUB") BREEN, M.4RTIN BRENTCAN, REV. THOMAS BRENNAN, C.S.C., VKCE-VT J, BROWN, LOUIS BRUGGNER, JOSEPH CASA­SANTA, REV. FRANK C.AVANAUGH, C.S.C., JOHN P. CHAPLA, JOHN C. COCHRANE, ELMER J. COLLINS, RICHARD CORDRAY, 
J. L. DESMOND, ART DIEDRICH, JOE DON­ALDSON, FRANK S. DORIOT, CARL T. FISCH­ER, WILLIAM T. FITZGERALD, HARRV FLAN­NERY, FRANK GAL\TN, W. C. ("CON") GAYNOR, CYRIL H.\RT.MAN, JOSEPH HE.\NE­BERRY, BRUCE HOLMBERG, HIR.AM H. HUN X ANTHONY J.ACKSON, ROGER KILEY, EDWARD P. KRELMER, THOMAS J. LEE, LES LOGAN, DAN LYNCH, MATTHEW .McENIRY, JAMES R. MARTIN, LYLE E. MILLER, DR. CHARLES T. MORAN, LEWIS MURPHY, DICK N.1SH, JOHN W. NIEMIEC, DANIEL P. NOLAN, JOHN C. NORTON, JOSEPH W, NYIKOS, GEORGE A. PATTERSON, SR., FR.4NK W. PEDROTTY, TO.M PLOUFF, JEFFERY POWERS, .MURRAY POWXRS, ROBERT G. QUINN, ED­GAR RAUB, WALT RAUBER, WALTER RAUH, REV. JOHN J. REDDINGTON. C.S.C., LEO RIEOER, J. M. ROHRBACH, MERLLN ROL­WTNG, JUAN SCARON, ED.MUND ("RED") SHEA, JOHN B. STEPHAN, EDWARD SULLI­VAN, JESSE N. TORRES, E.MERY TOTH, BE.\ TYLER, GEORGE A. UHLMEYER, ELMER B. UN-VERFERTH, HERBERT V.ALKER, GEORGE 
J. WACK. 
EfScicnt work on the part of our Reunion Com­mittee and considerable advance ballyhoo brought out a highly successful contingent of Classmates for our 40th Reunion. A total of 70 men in the Class were registered, a figure only 12 short of our representation five years ago. Considering that the list of deceased Classmates increased by 33 since 1958, it is felt that our attendance this time u*as especially gratifying. ' ^Vhcreas the faces of some men present five years ago were missing this time, we more than made up for these by enjoying the company of men never before back for a Reunion. 
Important among these first-timers was JUAN SCARON, Monte\'ideo, Uruguay, who combined electrical engineering convention matters in the 
U.S.A. *vith Reunion enjoyment. Making his head­quarters at the home of old South Bend friends of 40 years ago, he breezed in and out of town for 2 weeks on this jaunt and that. JESSE TORRES, erstwhile San Salvadorean student, now of New Rochelle, N.Y., was anotlicr, as was M.\TT Mc-INERV, of Denver, Colo., and E. B. (WHITEY) UNVERFERTH and his wife, from Ohio. 
Our Fnday night dinner was again held at the South Bend Country Club, with a chartered bus hauling the boys back and forth from campus to club. If anything, this ftmction exceeded in enjoy­ment the same occasion at oiu: 35th. 
Partictdar satisfaction w:as expressed by men of the Class following the Saturday morning Class Mass, with the innovation introduced of having four concuiTcnt Masses said in the same chapel. Four priests of the Class recited their Masses at 
DON C. MILLER, '25, one of the AU­.American *Tour Horsemen," has been hailed by Clevelanders for his many-faceted career. Called "the greatest open field runner I ever had" by Rockne in 1930, he was also president of his senior class, coached four years each at Georgia Tech and Ohio State. After 15 years as a Cleveland lawyer, he was ap­pointed U. S. District Attorney for ten years, ser\ing as president of the National Assn. of D.A.'s and the Federal Bar Assn. in the Northern District of Ohio. Elected president of the Touchdo«-n Club in 1957, he is still on the board, as well as a leader of the Divot Diggers, unique organization of anonymous donors to local charities. Don's alumni brothers include Ray, area Democratic chairman; Harry ("Red"), former team captain and AU-American; Walter, a teammate of Gipp; and Gerry, who played in the 20's with Don. Dad to four girls and a son at ND, he's married to the former Mae Lynch. 
the same time for the intentions of '23 men living and dead, on adjacent altars in Alumni Hall, at­tended bv all but four or five men of the Class. Celebranti %vere FATHERS FRANK CAVANAUGH, THO^MS BRENNAN, JOSEPH BRANNIGAN and JOHN REDDINGTON. Absent from the city on University or Community assignments were FATHERS JOHN CAVANAUGH and LEO W^ARD. It w*as fiist planned, all these six Holy Cross priests would celebrate Masses in the church basement chapel concurrently, but the unav*ai]ability of two men caused the ceremony to be transferred to Alumni Hall, where our Class was quartered. 
Something of an innovation was improvised when a final bull session was organized in the parlor of Morris Inn Saturday night after the general Alumni banquet. Final farewells, bull fightint and clbo\i* bending filled up the houis until midnight, after which a few hardy souls did verbal postmortems in and outside Alumni Hall, some of these lasting until daylight. 
JOE DONALDSON attended six o'clock Mass Sunday morning. 
From the .-Mumni Office: As Lou mentioned, Juan Scaron was on campus for your Reunion. Wc were pleased that Juan stopped in our office to offer some infonnation on CARDINAL O'HARA's early years in Uruguay and Peru. Wc referred him to F.\THER TOM McAVOY who is in the midst of a monumental biography on Cardinal O'Hara. FATHER JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., vis­ited St. Paul, Minnesota, May 15, to attend the 
)5th .\nnual St. Paul High School Awards Night 
Banquet. It was the first year for the presentation 
of the Cavanaugh .\ward for all-around excellence 
in sports, scholarship and school activities. Father 
accepted the award in his honor in the name of 
the University. .As guest speaker, he noted that 
he finished at St. Paul just 50 years ago, and that 
he was pleased the award requires scholarship as 
well as sports prowess. 
JOHN WILFRED NIEMIEC was talking to one 

of our Fotmdation Office men Reunion Weekend. 
John left his business card with his current address 
at the Western State Bank, South Bend, where he 
practices law. 
1924 
James R. Mcchan 301 S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Indiana 
REUNION REGlSTRAN"rS TIM RAUH, JAMES MEEHAN. 

From the Alumni OiEce: Belated s>Tnpathy to the family of RICHARD 
C. MILLER who died February 10, 1963, in Brook­haven Memorial Hospital {Long Island) after an extended illness. Dick was assistant chief of thc-American Electric Power Scr\-icc Corporation Con­struction Di\Tsion. He was a registered professional engineer and a member of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. He was also a boating en­thusiast ajid well-known in Long Island s^ing cir­cles. Survivors include his wife Betty, two married daughters,, a son and several grandchildren. 
1925 
John P. Hurley 2085 Brookdale Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
One of the delightful things about being a "Notre Dame man" and from Notre Dame was brought out many many years ago by GEORGE SCHUSTER at a meeting, which he probably has forgotten by this time, that %%*as held in the University Club, in which he indicated that no school in the country seems to have the ability to have their alumni sit down at a big or small meeting and have classes that vary in years from five to fifty and the entire group seem to have a lot in common. 
Another delightful thing has been for me, at least, and I am sure for most of the alumni, the ability to move around the entire country and even the world and feel no compunction about calling upon a Notre Dame alumnus when av^'ay from home in case there is some information that is wanted to learn about a certain locale. This point was brought out by two alumn! with whom I have been in touch recently, one of whom I had never met before. Anyone who has paid a visit to the Eternal City, has certainly heard of and usually gets in touch with, our one-man Notre Dame Club, Mr. VINCENT McALOON. Vince, like hundreds of other Notre Dame alumni, made our \'isit in Rome a wonderful one. This point was again brought out more recently when I had friends of mine from Toledo, move to Manilla in the Philippines. I had them contact my good friend, TONY GONZALEZ in the far-off Philippines, and I recently received a letter from Mr. and Mrs. R\RR Y BAILEY that the>- had contacted Tony. He and Mrs. Gonzalez were delightful hosts and the t%vo couples had got­ten togcihcr two or three times. It certainly made it a lot more pleasant for iny good friends from Toledo, and I knew that Tony would come through as he alv^-ays has in the past. I would also add VERNON RICKARD to this list of "hosts." He has taken care of many of my friends that have gone out to Hollyivood and wanted to sec a bit of movieland. **Tcx" has always gone all out to make my friends feel at home, and if he was busy, he found someone else who could give them hints as to how to get around in Hollywood. 
While spending Easter with mv daughter and son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL UNDER­WOOD (Mike is of the class of '59), they had HANK WURZER over for dinner, and Hank and I had a marv*elous time reminiscing and recalling the events since the da>-s of 1925. It was really delightful for both of us. 
Soon after our Davenport trip, Mrs. Hurley and I took off for Washington. D.C, on our way to the High Point Market. Our Notre Dame contact in Washington was my nephew, JOHN HAMMETT, '58, who has been with the F.B.I, these past iew 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus,' August-September, 1963 
years and is now- stationed in Washington. John graduated from Notre Dame in the class of '58, I believe. We had sort of a Notre Dome reunion when JOHN HAYWARD of the class of '60 came do\**n to our hotel with his wife, Mar>' Beth Lud­wig Ha\'ward. John is working in the office of one of the senators from Nevada during the day and getting a law degree at Georgetown University 
^ in the evening. His \vife, Mary Beth, has been teaching nursing in a hospital in Washington, but, like all the Kennedys, she is expecting during the summer months. So, it looks like another prospect for Notre Dame or St. Mar>''s, Mary Beth gradu­ated from St. ^fa^>•'s add is the daughter of our classmate, GEORGE LUDWIG of Muskegon, Michigan. 
Congratulations to classmate RAY TILLMAN who was married to Mrs. Margaret Dooley on 
.,- May 18th at Gesu Church in Toledo. Your secre­tary* and his wife were attendants. The new Mrs. Tillman has two sons, Dick (a senior) and Pat (a junior) at Notre Dame right now. 
^fy final note, picked up while in Cleveland, b that our class president, DON MILLER was made the "Notre Dame Man of the Year" by the Cleve­land Notre Dame Club. Congratulations Don! 
' If you fellows would like a cocktail party this fall after one of the games, drop me a line and tell me which game you ^vould prefer. It might be one way of getting news from some of the fellows. 
That's that for this time. Let's keep praying for the fellows that have gone on and the fellows that are still here. 
From the Alumni Office: 
FRANK W. HOWLAND, general agent, cele­brated his 25th anniversary with the Massadiusetts 
^ Mutual Life Insurance Co. in Detroit. Frank is a past president of the General Agents Association of his company, and recently was elected president of the Michigan State General .Agents and Man­agers .Association. 
Noting the importance of physical Htness and the desirability of organized sports within a school or community to combat juvenile delinquencv, EDG.AR 
E. "RIP" MILLER was a hit in Little Falls, New York. Rip, imiied by the Varsity Club of Little Falls and lightly pressured by classmate NICHOLAS K.AUFFMAN, was the guest speaker for the Club's I9th .Annual Sports Banquet. 
1926 
Frank A. Deitle 1763 Kessler Blvd. 
South Bend 16, Ind. 
REUMO.V REGISTRANT j_ J. ARTHUR HALEY. 
1927 
Clarence J. Ruddy 32 S. River Street Aurora, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRANTS f JOHN J. REIDY, ALB.AN SMITH. 
The preceding issue of the ALUMNUS reported on the record-breaking gathering at the Conrad Hilton Hotel in Chicago for Universal Notre Dame Night sponsored by the Chicago Club. Representatives from each Class got in touch with their respective members in the area, and the results were spec­tacular. DICK HALBIN and JOE DELLA MARIA did an excellent job of rounding up members of our 
\ Class. The following were present: GENE BRENNAN, JACK CONNERY, BILL CORBETT, JOE DELLA MARIA, BORIS EP­STEIN, JACK GEARY, BILL HALLORAN, DICK HALPIN, DICK LYNCH. TOM NASH, HARRY O'BOYLE, TOM O'SHAUGHNESSY. TONY PONTARELU, CLARENCE RUDDY , MIKE ^ S^VYGERT, and JIM WING. The occasion itself was tremendously successful. It came shortly after the events which led up to the , resignation of the editor of the SCHOLASTIC, and demonstrated that the alumni agree wholeheartedly ivith the Uni\-ersity administration in its handling of the controversy. And after all, the opinion of the alumni should not be dismissed lightly. ^Vho arc better able to judge a university than the thousands of men through several generations who have lived in its halls, taken Its courses, and re­ceived its degrees? There are many tests of a uni­
versity .. . its faculty, its books, its laboratories, its research facilities, are a few . . . but the best test lies in its alumni. In the success or failure of the alumni may be found the answer to the question of whether the university knows or does not know how to prepare men for life and a career. The answer in this case b not hard to find. We don't need to go beyond our own Glass to see men who are successful in evcr%' sense the word implies. 
I was on the campus for the Commencement to see my son Philip receive his degree. While there I saw BILL KAVANAUGH, TOM GREEN, and TOM O'CONNOR. They were all happy to have sons in the graduating class. I was also happy to have my son in the class. I understand that JOE MAXWXLL and NEIL REG.AN were there for the same purpose we were, but I did not happen to run into them. 
HUGH CA-MPBELL was in .Aurora the other day for a convention and called. He has stayed in his home town of Hazclton, Pennsylvania, since graduation and is president of the Hazclton Brick Company. He is \vcll and busy, and I was very glad to hear from him. 
From the .Alumni Office: 
JEROME J. SECHOWSKI has been elected secre­tary-treasurer of Data Computing Ser\-ices, Inc., South Bend. Jerome has been purchasing agent for the University 38 years, a post he will still retain. 
1928 
Louis F. Buckley 68-10 108th Street Forest HiUs 75, N. Y. 
REU.\ION REGISTR-A-VTS 

CECIL I. ALEXANDER, JL\J ALLAN, NEIL A.MIOT, JOHN J. ANTUS, BILL AR.MIN, ROB­ERT E. BANNON, GEORGE BEAMER, JI.M BOEHNING, EDWARD BOURKE, THOMAS BOV, DANIEL BRADLEY, PAUL J. BRADY, JOHN E. BRANNON, ED.MUND J. BRENNAN, ROGER W. BRESLIN, F. EUGENE BRO\VN, WTLLUM E. BRO^VN, P.WL BRUST, LOUIS 
F. BUCKLEY, WAYNE BUSHMAN, JAMES T. CANIZ.\RO, JAMES PATRICK CANNY, JOHN CARLIN, VINCENT CARNEY, LESTER CARRIG, PHILIP CENEDELLA, JAMES CONMEY, GEORGE COURY, FR.ANCIS CREADON, WIL­LUM F. CRONIN, DR. BERNARD CROWLEY, 
J. ^L BOTTS CROWLEY, \UTTHEW J. CUL­LEN, WILLIA.M DAILY, DENNIS D. DALY, ALBERT DAVIS, JOHN DAVIS, EDWARD J. DEAN, JERRY DeCLERCQ, FRANK DONOVAN, JOE DORAN, BILL DOWDALL, \V1LLL\M DAVYER, WAYNE EWING, EUGENE G. FAR­RELL, CHRISTIE FL.ANAG.AN, FLOYD SEARER, JOHN FONTANA, JOHN F. FREDERICK, PETER J. GALLAGHER, BERNARD CAREER, MAX GAUTHIER, JOSEPH GERAGHTY, AVIL­LIAM GOELIT2, AUGUST M. GRAMS, RICH­.\RD A. GREENE, JOE GRIFFIN, ROBERT HAMILTON, THOMAS HART, FKAN HEGAKTY. JOSEPH HILGER, MK E HOGAN, FRANK J. HOLDAMPF, JOHN IGOE, HUDSON JEFFKEVS. GUS JENKINS, WILLIAM KEARNEY, JAMES KEARNS, EDWARD KEENAN, GEORGE KEL­LEY, JOSEPH P. KINNEARY, J. W. KIRWAN. JOHN P. LAHEY, JOE LANGTON, TOM LA­VELLE, BILL LEAHY, JOHN LEITZINGER, ADRLAN LOPEZ, RAYMOND J. LUSSON, CHARLES P. LVTLE, HERB McCABE, FRANK 
P. MCCARTHY, EDMUND F. MCCLARNON, ED­WARD J. MCGAULEY, WILLIAM McGUIRE, LEO .MCINTYRE, EDWARD P. McKEOWN, JOHN V. McMANMON, JOSEPH P. McNAMARA, JOE .\LU>DEN, HENRY MASSM.AN, JR., FRAN­CIS MEYER, ARTHUR MILLER, JOE MORRIS­SEY, RAYMOND MULUGAN, REV. ANDREW .MULREANY, C.S.&, JOHN R. MURPHY, WM. H. MURPHY, GENE O'BRIEN, PHILIP O'CONNOR, VINCENT PENOTE, HOWARD V. PHAUN, RICRARD L. FHELAN, J. CARROLL FINKLEY, JOHN POLISKY, KENNETH POWER, BRADLEY PRESCOTT, RICHARD D. QUINLAN, ED QUINN, FRANK J. QUINN, PHILIP QUINN, EDWARD P. RAFTER, JOHN W. RICKORO, .MICHAEL RICKS, ERNEST RIEOER, ROBERT RIGNEY, MARTIN A. RINI, HAROLD RUPFEL, MARTIN A. RYAN, GEORGE SARGUS, .ART SCHEBERLE, GEORGE SCHEUER, ALFRED SCHNURR, FRANCIS "SWEDE" SCHROEDER, CHARLES SCHUESSLER, BERNARD SCHUB, NORBERT SEIDENSTEICKER, JOHN SEITER. GERALD, SHEIBLEY, DAVID SMITH, JOHN 
P. "CLIPPER" SMITH, ARNOLD THOMA, PAUL TOBIN, a J. "BXny TOPPING, RICH­ARD J. TRANT, THOMAS WALSH, VINCENT WALSH, SEVMORE WEISBERGER, JAME S \VHrrE, FRITZ WILSON, JOHN J. WINBERRY, JOHN J. WINGERTER, LARRY WINGERTER, ROY WORDEN. 
The Class is indebted to many membezs for a most successful 35-Year Reunion. Under the over­all direction of our President, JIM ALLAN, ED QUINN and FATHER MUREANY did an outstand­ing job on local arrangements. VINCE CARNEY made his usual great contribution by providing distinctive '28 clothing items. RAY MULUGAN and FR.ANK CREADON produced a top '28 Glee Club group to sing at the Masses. As the result of the over-all encouragement of BERNIE CAR­EER, very effective mailings were sent to the class­mates by BILL D^VYER, J.ACK WINGERTER, DICK GREENE, GEORGE KELLEY, GENE FARRELL, LEO McINTYRE and by BERNIE GARBER, himseU. F. X. JIM O'BRIEN and PAUL (DOC) BRADY also sent out excellent mail­ings to some of the class. JOE LANGTON did a great job in raising funds to pay some of the costs of mailings. SEYMOUR ^VEISBERGER, CYP SPORAL, AL SCHNURR. AL DAVIS. GEORGE SCHEUER and HOWIE PHAUN ar­ranged luncheon get-togethers for the lawyers, architects, engineers, journalists and the commerce men. The engineers under the direction of AL D.AVIS did a great promotion job. .Al sent out a 
BOSTON —Headliners for UND Night at the UiiiTersity Chib included (bom left): Bob Marr '58, general chainnan; Tim Toomey '30, past {ocsidait; Cknck FMenoa '44, chairman, Man of the Year committee; Rev. Uchaid H. SnOrran, CS.C. '34, president of Stonekill College and Boston Club ND Man of the Year; Q/Sms H. Hunter '43, national president. Alumni Assn.; and Neil Fowler '47, Boston pccxy. 
ATotre Oame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 39 
picture of the complete group of mechanicals with 
Pop Benitz taken in 1928 and one taken at the 
30th reunion ^nth 8 present. 
PHIL LYTLE died unexpectedly of a heart 
attack at Erie, Pa., on June 23, a week following 
our 35-Year Reunion. Phil has been with the 
Pennsyh-ania Electric Compan>-'s Northern Division 
since 1928 and was their sales manager at the 
time of his death. JOHN LEITZINGER, a life­
long friend of Phil, mentioned that the two of ihcm 
had such a wonderful time at our Reunion. I have 
arranged for FATHER MULRE.AN'Y, C.S.C., to 
offer a Mass for PhU at tlic request of the Class. 
I appreciate tlie number of letters received fol­
lowing my .-^pril Newsletter. 
Our s>-mpathy is extended to ERNIE RIEDER 
on the death of his mother, and to DICK. ^\'EPP­
NER on the death of his father and his sister. 
I am pleased to be able to report a birth again. LEO J. ROZUM*s sixtli child was born on April 15, 1963. LEO has a son at Morcau Seminary and another at Rockhurst College. Leo was with our Class during our Freshman year. He is a Ford dealer In Mitcliell, S.D. Leo has screed as presi­dent of the South Dakota Chamber of Commerce and of the S-D. Auto Dealers .Association. 
OSK.A.R RUST*s son, who finished Notre Dame in 1956, is now Brother John, O.P., and is one year away from Ordination. Oskar also has two daugh­ters who arc nuns in the Benedictine Order at Covington, Kentucky. He has another son at Notre Dame. Oskar is in business in Greensburg, Ind., with his son. Oskar served as toastmaster at the banquet at SUBIACO, Arkansas in honor of GEORGE COURY on the occasion of the dedica­tion of the new *'Courv* House," a new Retreat-Guest House at the Benedictine Mona5ter>' of SUBLACO .\bbey where George and Oskar attended Subiaco Academy. Oskar has a son there now in prep school. F. X. JIM 0*BRIEN sent me a column from the Miami Herald written by the Town Crier praising George for his generous gifts. JI.M O'BRIEN reports that retired Colonel GEORGE LEPPIG. the Marine, is Chief of Uni­formed Police in Dade Cotmty. Jim adds—"Brother is he rough! He is almost as tough as when he was playing football on the other side of BUD BORRINGER and JOHNNIE FREDERICKS from our JOHNNIE "CLIPPER" SMITH. Big George lives about three miles from me do\vn in tlic south end of the county." 
I was pleased to see in the June 1963 issue of The Sign a picture of JIM CANIZARO with Bishop Gerow of Natchez-Jackson. Jim serves as architect-advisor to the Bishop. The accompanying article refers to Jim as a designer of schools, seminaries, convents, hospitals, post ofHccs, jails, and prize­winning homes. Jim, the article continues, has been twice honored with regional design aiv"ards of the American Institute of Architects and also by his ton's choosing to follow in his dad's career. 
FATHER JIM McSHANE, S.J., sent his regrets at being unable to attend our 35th Reunion. Father Jim had 92 baptisms and confessions, offered 2 Masses and made 2 sick calls, 15 miles each, the day that he wrote from Casa Cural, £1 Progrcso, Yaro, Honduras, Central America. 
BERNIE GARBER reports that JACK ^\TN­GERTER met HENRY MASSNLVC recently in Rome, Italy. HOWIE PHALIN and I took the same plane from New York to Chicago in May. Howie mentioned that Mrs. J.ACK LAVELLE works for the Field Enterprises Educational Cor­poration of which Howie is Executive Vice-Presi­dent. 
JOHN SEITER and DAVE SMITH arc heading for Canada for a week of fishing following the Reunion. 
PAUL BRADY is with the law firm of .\ndrcss and Andrcss, Cleveland, Ohio. JOE HILGER, ou-ner of the department store, The White House, in Columbus, Indiana, is president of the Indiana Retail Council. Joe has a daughter at St. Mar\*'s College at Notre Dame. 
FRANK M. GALARDY is president of the .Auto­matic Telephone Ser\*ices, Inc. In New York City. I noted in the Philadelphia papers where CHARLIE SHORT \v3s honored at the Twentieth .Anniversary Dinner of St. Joseph's College Insti­tute in Industrial Relations in Philadelphia as a teacher for 20 years at the Institute. Charlie, who is an attorney and labor arbitrator, has served as Solicitor for the Pcnnsj-Ivania Labor Relations Board, Chief Renew Attorney for the Philadelphia Region, National Wage Stabilization Board. 
Dr. PAUL TOBIN, an orthopaedic surgeon in Elgin, III., has a daughter at Barat College. His son will be at Notre Dame In September. 
JOHN HERBERT sent his regrets at not-being _ able to attend our Reunion this year. John is still ' 

40 Notre Dame Alumnus/August-September, 
EVANSVILLE — Southern Indiana Notre Dame Night featured (l.-r.) Joe Harrison, new vice-president; Al Harding, new secretary; Pat O'Daniel, new president; Jim Gibbons, guest speaker from the campus; Hank Dewes, retiring president; Charles Manion, retiring secretary; and Msgr. Clarke, Evansville Club chaplain. 
with Will and Baumer Candle Co., in Boston. His son will enter St. Bonavcnture Univ. in September. 
JOHN CAVANAUGH has 5 children, the young­est being 7. His daughter attends Mills College. John Is an attorney with McDermott, Vflll 8c Emcr>- in Chicago. 
JOE L.ANGTON has a daughter in the convent at St. Joseph's Mothcrhousc in Missouri. Joe op­erates the Langton Auto Supply Co. In Ottawa, 
111. Joe ^^•as selected Notre Dame Man of the Year in Peoria 19S1. BILL KIRWAN, who has a furniture store in Iowa City, Iowa, has spent some time travelling in the Far East. DICK WEPPNER is a technical writer with a firm In Washington, D.C., Mills, Petticord and Mills, Architects and Engineers. Dick, like myself, has six grandchildren. JIM SHOCKNESSY has been drafted by Governor Rhodes of Ohio to expedite construction of the Nortli-South freeway (Rt. 71) from Cleveland to Columbus to Cincinnati. You will remember Jim built the Ohio turnpike which was completed on schedule. The Cleveland Press commented, "The ^vord that JIM SHOCKNESSY will build another road brought high-octaine happiness." 
BOB RA^^LTON has a daughter, who is Sister 
M. St. Bernadctte, Immaculate Heart of Mary Order. FRANCIS MEYER slopped to sec GYP SPORL while \isltlng the spring festival in New Orleans. I was pleasantly surprised to hear that C>'p is now a married man. Francis sent along some pictures he had taken of C>'p and a clipping announcing that C>'p was elected to the board of directors of Delta Steamship Lines. C>*p is an Insurance and brokerage firm executive In New Orleans. 
JOHN ROBINSON, Headmaster of the Robinson School In West Hartford, Conn., was unable to attend our reunion because his daughter was rc­ceK-ing her veil in the UrsuHnc Order at the time of our reunion. 
.ART GLEASON wrote from Stow, Ohio, where he has an Insurance agenc>', that he regretted being unable to be with us. 
JOHN ANTUS, who practices law at 342 Madi­son Ave,, New York City, has a son who Is a senior at Notre Dame and another who will be a freshman in September. 
F. X. JIM O'BRIEN, who is with Goodbody & Co. in ^flami, Florida, sent his regrets at not being able to attend our Reunion since he was on a tour around South .America with a group of businessmen In June. 
.ART DENCHFIELD was unable to attend our Reunion this year. Art is in the real estate busi­ness with Micklcr & Lydcn. Realtors in Coral Gables, Florida. DUKE DUQUETTE, %vho now lives in Scarsdale, N.Y., reports that a G.E. sales meeting interfered with his attendance at the Reunion. 
A business friend from Muskegon, Michigan, sent me a copy of the local paper In wliich FRANK DONOVAN, President of Kaydon Enginccting Corp., was praised highly for his contribution to a massive $2,000,000 plant modernization and build­ing program designed to produce the most modern needle roller and needle-bearing operation in the country. 
1963 

Don't forget to plan to join your classmates at the Annual Cocktail Party in the basement of O'Shaughnessy Hall immediately following the Southern California game, Oct. 12, 1963. Bring your wife, children and friends with you to enjoy this get-together. 
You have been ad^-ised by JIM ALLAN that the following '28 class officers for the next five years have been selected by a Nominating Committee un­der the Chalnnanship of ED QUINN: BERNARD GARBER, President; DR. DAN BRADLEY, Vice-President for the East; AUGUST GRAMS, Vice-President for the Midwest; JIM CANIZARO, Vice-President for the South and ART CANTT, Vice-President for the West; LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, Secretar>'. 
From the .Alumni Office: 
It seems wc cannot get a column underway with­out the latest adventures of Class Secretary* LOU BUCKLEY. Lou delivered another address on June 24 — this time before the Fifth Biennial In­stitute in Pastoral Psychology at Fordham Univer­sity. 
DR. .ANDREW J. BOYLE, veteran professor of chemistr>' and administrative head of the depart­ment of chemistr>' at the University, has been ap­pointed assistant dean of the College of Science. Father Hesburgh said Dr. Boyle's special responsi­bility will be the management of the science school's buildings, stores and equipment. 
1929 
Larry Staudcr Engineering Bldg. Notre Dame, Indiana 
REU.VION REGISTR.ANTS J.AMES ^L CURRY, GAYLORD H.VAS, LARRY ST.AUDER. 
October 12, immediately after the Southern Cali­fornia game the members of the Class of *29, their families and their guests arc Invited to a get-together in the Engineering Building. If you have not attended a previous party and would like more details, please write to your Class Secretary. 
Is is too early to plan for your 35lh Class Re­union? Your secretary saw FATHER LOU THORN­TON, C.S.C., G.AYLORD H.AAS, JIM CURRY, FRANK FL\*NN, FRANK MEYER, JOHN CUSHM.AN and VINCE CARNEY at the Saturday. June 15, .Alumni Banquet. No doubt other eager '29ers were In attendance. Several members of the Class of '28 asked that we send our *29 promotional mailings to the members of their Class. The Class of '28 had about 150 registrants. .Are they better than the '29ei3? 
Wc have made arrangements with LOU BUCK­LEY and ED QUINN to borrow and show colored movies of some of their Reunions. You will recog­nize" many of the faces and "enjoy the recollections. Bring your own moric film and slides to add to the program. 
JIM CURRY was enthusiastic in his anticipation of seeing most of you in June of '64. Had you been here you would share his sentiments. JOHN SCHRON, E.E. graduate of *23, was back on the campus from Uruguay for the first time since graduation. Who will be the *'prodigaI sons" of 
^ '29 back in '6i? TOM LANTRY, '30, and Mrs. Lantr>- attended Tom Jr.'s graduation from the College of Liberal Arts. Xcxt year he will see Tom Jr. earn his 
FATHER THOMAS J. LAXE, CS.C , is at Argonne National laboratory this summer as is your secrclar\-. Father has been here for the past two semesters. 
Some of you will recall PAUL HEADDY, '27, a high Jumper for Rockne. Paul is director of ad­missions and placement for Rose Poly Tech, We 
_,.. recently \*isited with him and others at Westing­house Aerospace Electrical Division, Lima, Ohio. 
JOHN M. GILTINON, Chicago attorney, con­tinues his busy schedule. He has an appeal pending with the U.S. Supreme Court. The tentative date is October 1963. 
KARL ^fARTERSTECK, vice-president, manager Cleveland di\TsIon, Great Lake Dredge and Dock 
' Co., continues his work for the Foundation Office. for the Serra Club, Confraternity of Christian Doc­trine. He has four grandsons to ser\-c during his "free" hours. 
From the Alumni Office: 
REV. JAMES P.ATRICK GIBBONS, CS.C , archivist of the Congregation, was among 1,600 new contributors (and one of su: Indiana residents) to the 1963 Enc%'cIopaedia Britannica. Father's article concerned the Congregation of the Holy Cross. 
1930 
Dcvcre Plunkctt O'Shaughncssy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
From the Alumnt Office: With the new Peace Corps students beginning their rigorous training on campus this summer (I saw 30 girls attempting push-ups on the lawn in back of Lyons Hall yesterday), it is apropos to note BISHOP VINCENT McaVULEY's visit to South Bend in April, Slowly but surely a "peace corps for laymen" is gaining strength and favor within the Catholic Churcii. Fourteen lay people (including doctors, Iaw>-ers, engineers and teachers) are working in the Bishop's diocese, but he hopes for many more in order to give the priests and nuns more time to concentrate on their spiritual duties. Dr. EDWARD T. YORKE and his wife Ann Mary are happy with their new home at 171 Maria Lane, Camarillo, California. In keeping with the ecumenical movement, one of our leading "Irish" alumnus, MORT GOOD­AIAN, had an article about his S'otre Dame activi­ties in a special Passover edition of the B'Nai B*Rith Messenger. 
1931 
James T. Doyle 805 W. Arcadia Ave. Arcadia, California 
REUNIO.N REGISTRANT MARSHALL WALLNER. 

I received a notice from the Alumni office that HARRY E. KEN'NEDY has returned from South America and is now living at 1326 .-Mleghcny Street. Jersey Shore, Pa. Harry has spent most of his time since 1931 out of the country, and I am sure he could tell some interesting talcs at the next Rc­imion of our Class. 
A recent clipping in the Los Angeles Times told 

•, of RAY CONNORS, public relations director of Mt. St. Mar>*'s College, being re-clcclcd chairman of the college adnsor^* board. I have not seen 
r Ray in many years and missed him at Universal Xotrc Dame Night here. 
At U.N.D. Night I had the pleasure of an in­teresting visit with FR. JAMES CONNERTON, C.S.C., whom many of us remember during our college days. Fr. Conncrton is with the Family Prayer Crusade and looks wonderful after so many years. He asked to be remembered to his many friends in our Class. I also had the pleasure of 
F. J. "FLO" MCCARTHY, '32 (center), was pictured recently \nth President Kennedy and Under Secretary of Commerce Franklin D. Roosevelt, Jr., in a ceremony to open the "countdown" for the 1964 New York \\^orId's Fair. Public relations chief for the Fair, Flo formerly operated the New York office of the Foundation. 
meeting Mx\URICE REGAN and his lovely wife, who live in Encino. Maurice looks well and asked about many Chicago area Class members. LOU BER.ARDI, another former Chicagoan, was there and is planning on holding a barbecue this summer for the Sl'crs in this area. 
I have been in touch with GIL SEAMAN who has been away from business for a while due to a heart condition. According to the latest news, he is following the doctor's orders, and is making excellent recover^' and has been able to go to his office a few days a week. I have had a few faithful helpers like BILL BERNING, SPIKE SULLIVAN, HOWARD RANKER, JOHNN'Y BURNS and sev­eral others., and would appreciate news from classmates for our column. I have mentioned many names hoping to get a response as I want to keep our column filled with interesting news of the goings on of the men of 1931. Please let me hear from you this summer on your various club activities where many of you will gather. 
From the Alumni Office: After seeing himself in our last issue, JAMES D. McQUAID took the time to write us concerning his work. "The work for the multiple sclerosis state group has been vcr>' rewarding, and we have uncov­ered several very bad and needy cases of MS in the work . . . the clinic begun in Indianapolis at Riley Hospital feels there is much progress being made and ^ve are prayerfully hoping a breakthrough will be made this year, as to the cause of MS . . . to date there has been no known cause of this dis­ease .. . so please add your prayers to ours." At the University of Dayton, Dr. RICHARD R. BAKER, a professor of philosophy, wzis given a $200 Alumni-Faculty .\ward. Dick ^vas honored for a long list of accomplishments, including revision of an education pamphlet which has become the basis for a motion picture on a teaching method. 
1932 
James K. Collins 2982 Torrington Rd. Shaker Heights, Ohio 
MOST REV. P.\UL J. HALLINAN received a degree of Doctorate In .American History from Western Reser\"e University, Cleveland, at their commencement in June. Bishop Hallinan was for­merly Chaplain of the Newman Club of that Uni­versity for many years. He ga%*e the principal address to the graduating class. 
BILL McCORMICK is with the National .Avia­

tion and Space .Administration in Florida after be­ing stationed in Cleveland for a short time this past winter. His present address is Apt. 139 D , Roosevelt Avenue, Cocoa Beach, Fla. 
RAY GEIGER has been on the NBC-TV Today Show several times this spring, and on a-Weather TV show in Cleveland. 
Among the more recent changes of addresses are, DICK. OELERICH to 3201 Illinois Road, Wil­mette, Illinois; FRAN OELERICH to 1616 Shen­dan Road, Wlmette; BEN AUKES to 247 N. Park-side, Chicago; AL CULVER to 321 S. 6th St., Plymouth, Indiana; GEORGE HIGGINS to 2200 
W. Cermak Road, Chicago; ED KELLY to 66 Knollwood Drive, Larchmont, N.Y.; EMMET KELLY to 18 Meadowview Drive, Northfield, Illi­nois; JOHN LAUGHNA to 10030 Cadieux, Detroit; JI.\f WARDELL to 1433 Bedford St., Stamford, Conn.; CLAUDE ROSSFTER to Box 17, Harting­ton, Nebr.; JOE SIMKO to 4216 N. Galena Road, Peoria; JIM SECCARECCIO to 12 Fordham Road, LauTence, Mass. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Jim mentioned Ray Geiger's appearances on TV but apparently did not have word of his May 31st national exposure on .Art Linkletter's House Party Show. 
A new national magazine named Aid, the jour­nal of Ambulance Association of .America, ap­peared on counters for May-June. Publisher-editor is EDWARD W. MEHREN, president of the pub­lic relations-association management firm Mehren Associates, and executive vice-president of .Ambu­lance .Association of .America. 
1933 
John A. Hoyt, Jr. Gillespie & O'Connor 342 Madbon Ave. New York 17, N.Y. 
REITNION REGISTRANTS 

GEORGE J. ARMBRUSTER, GEORGE E. AUG. JOHN M. BARRETT, JOSEPH W. BEAN, GEORGE H. BEAUDINE, FRED BECKLEMBER, JR., MARION J. BLAKE, PAUL F. BOEHM, ANDREW C. BOTTI, JOHN F. BREEN, ROGER 
P. BRENNAN, DANIEL J. CASEV, LOUIS R. CHREIST, JOSEPH D. CLARK, CHARLES A. CONLEY, PETER J. CONNELLY, EDW.\RO W. DAILEY, J.AMES F. D.4LY, ROLAND D.VMES, JOSEPH F. DAVEY, REV. JAMES A. DON­NELLY, CS.a , ROBERT E. DONOV.AN, DONALD F. DRAPER, EDWARD J. ECKERT, FRANCIS X. FALLON, CHARLES L. FARRIS, JOHN D. FITZPATRICK, CARLOS H. FRANK, JA.MES A. FREEMAN, JOHN H. FRIEL, ER­NEST J. GARGARO, EDWIN A. GAUSSEUN, JAMES J. GEREND, DR. DOUGLAS J. GIOR­GIO, EDWARD T. GOUGH, NORBERT J. GUETLE, DONALD M. HAECKER, WILLIAM M. HA^VKES, ROBERT H. HEITGER, WILIARO J. HIGGINS, LEO W. HODEL, JOHN A. HOYT, JR., FRANCIS H. HURLEY, SAMUEL Y. HYDE, SAMUEL J. JACKSON, JOHN G. J/\EGER, CHARLES J. JASKWHICH, ROBERT M. JOHN­STON, JOHN R. JOYCE, JOHN L. KENKEL, LUCIEN J. KEMPF, EDWARD B. KILLEEN, JOSEPH V. KIRINCICH, GEORGE J. KOZAK, PETER PAUL KREUZ, JOSEPH LEE, CHARLES 
B. LENAHAN, FRANCIS J. LENNARTZ, ROB­ERT P. LEWIS, SIMON E. LOCHER, >VILLIAM 
A. LYNCH, FRANCIS S. McGEE, FRANCIS JAY MARTIN, ^VILLIAM H. MTISCH, MARTIN C. MORAN, JOSEPH F. MUELLNER, P.\TRICK 
T. MURPHY, JOHN J. NEUBAUER, JOHN B. NICHOLS, DR. ALLISON O'BRIEN, MICHAEL 
D. O'HARA, JOHN J. O'SHAUGHNESSY, TAL­BERT C. PINKLEY, JR., HAROLD V. POHL­MEYER, JOHN H. POYNTON, AUSTIN MO­NEY, J.AMES P. ROSS, W. LA^VRENCE SEXTON, THOM.AS W. SEXTON, JOHN F. SLOAN, JR., >VILLLAM A. STEWART, REV. LLOYD TESKE, C.S.C., EDWARD TROY, KARL L. VOGEL­HEI.M, ANTHONY W. WIRRY. DON ^V^SE, WIL­LIA.M F. \VnTENBURG, FREDERICK P. ZIETLOW. 
The XXX Reunion, attended by appro?umately 100 classmates, is now a part of tlie .Archives of the .Alumni Association. .An alphabetical list of those in attendance as reported by the .Alumni OfEce is noted abo%*e. 
CHARLIE FARRIS as Chairman did a splendid job. His detail and preparation resulted In an un­usually Interesting program. Charlie, BERNIE LEN.AH.AN and ROL.AND D.AMES arrived on 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 41 
TTiursday to make advance plans. Roland piloted his Bonanza up from St. Louis. The first **.\m­bassador" to arrive from tlic East was PETE CON­NELLY from Rochester. Friday ivas a day of gen­eral gct-togethcr and Friday evening wc had our Class dinner in the Mahogany Room at the Morris Inn. LARRY SEXTON, the dean at Indianapolis Raceway, acted as our Master of Ceremonies. One 

<. of the highlights of the dinner was the announce­ment that ED ECKERT from .-Mbany, New York. had been elected President of the Class. Your correspondent was also selected to continue as Class Secreiar>-­Saturday and Sunday the golf course was crowded, and Saturday evening at the alumni banquet the Class of 1933 crowded the "Honors Forum" bv 
•»* taking 6 of the 8 golf prizes. LUCIEN KEMPF of Lindsay, Okla., took second prize in the open toumaraent and also qualified second with the long­est drive. Our distinguished past President, JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY, won the Seniors* Tournament — open to Classes 1913 - 1933. JOE BE.AX was second in the Seniors. Joe also won the Blind Bogey, and GEORGE KOZAK had the longest drive among the Seniors. 
FATHER LLOYD TESKE, uho is now stationed at Notre Dame, said Mass on Saturday morning, 

*• June 15ih, at Morrisscy Hall for the members of our Class and on Sundav morning, June l6th, FATHER JLM DONNELLY said an early Mass at Nforrissc>*, which afforded many of us who had great distances to go to return home, an early opportunity to start back before the hca\y weekend traffic. 
With some returns still coming in. the Class Memorial Fund w-ill approximate $1,000. The Reunion Committee had a small amount of ex­pense, which is to be deducted from this Fund. Honorariums were \-oted for FATHERS JIM DON­NELLY, LLOYD TESKE and CHARLES SHEEDY. The balance of the Fund will go to the University as a Class gift and Memorial Fund for Masses for members of the Class. 
To JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY, our sincere thanks for a successful administration over the past 5 years. To ED ECKERT, our good wishes for the next 5 years. \Vc trust that if Ed calls upon you from time to time to assist in committee work, you will share his burdens by accepting such tasks. 
From the .Alumni Office: Busy PAT CROUXEY (and we do mean hus>I) has been named a member of the board of directors of the Fund for the Republic Pat was also ap­pointed cochairman of a newly formed Chicago committee for the Fund. 
1934 
T. Edward Carey 223 Elmwood Rd. Rocky River 16, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTR.A.VrS ELI J. SILAHEEN, ED \TZRAL. 
From the .Alumni Office: 
Our foreign diplomat, \TNCENT McALOON, was elected Commander of the American Legion, Department of Italy, at its annual convention. 
S. H. OSBORN, comptroller of Texas Eastern Transmission Co. since 1956, has been elected a \'icc-prcsident of the company. The company is located In Houston. 
Completing the requirements for his M..A., JAMES WALTER GES'ET is now an alumnus of Long Beach State College, California. 
^Vc received a letter via Bob CahUl's office from HAROLD B. DESNOYERS. Harold is head of the Technical sciences (engineering science, engineering technology-, mathematics and ph>-sics) at West­chester Community College in Valhalla, New York. A commuter, he lives at 26 Byron Ave. A\'hite Plains. 
His letter calls attention to the sports leaders of the Class of '34. With all the articles we have had in the office concerning our new interim coach, HUGH DEVORE, I have been madly scarcli­ing for one short laudation. Success finally came in Harold's note. To quote: **Hc looks and acts like the man for the Job." 
Secondly, WALT KENNEDY is now the netv commissioner of tlic National Basketball .Associa­tion. And, the Association, including all griping basketball players, arc happy with his old habit of being a\'ailablc "to anyone *vho ^vishes to see the mayor" (Stamford, Conn.). Walt's past suc­cess, as social worker, coach, and publicity director, 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-Septembeu 
DR. WILLARD J. CROXALL, '32, '33, '35 
From Irish Third Degree to Chemical 
R. & D. 
With three academic degrees from Notre Dame and 30 years' experience in chemical research, W. J. Croxall became director of research and development early this year for Miles Chemical Co., division of Miles Laboratories, Inc., Elkhart, Ind. 
make him another "right man for the job.** 
Lastly, Congrats to '34ers ROBERT CAHILL and VINCENT J. REISH^UN (Vlncc is a *St member per request). Both were "Man of the Year" for their respective Notre Dame Clubs this year. Coinclden tally, \^nce \>*as best man at Bob's wedding. 
1935 
Franklyn Hochreitcr 
702 Scarlet Dr. 
Towson 4, Maryland 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 
JOSEPH E. BONK, ANTHONY W. CROWXEY, WILLIA.M F. DON.AHUE, AMBROSE J. FREE­HILL, JLM MacDE\TTT, FR.ANK .\UTA\'OSKY. 
From the .Alumni OfHce: 
RICHARD PREZEBEL, of Kansas City, has been elected second \*ice-presldent of the National Society of .Art Directors. This was the first time in NS.AD history that a vice-president from outside the New York area has been selected. Dick, art director at Potts-Woodbury, Inc., advertising agcncj", was chosen to the national post after serving two terms as president of the Kansas City .Art Directors Club. He is also a non-restdent member of the Chicago Art Directors Club. 
Dr. ARTHUR L. KRANZFELDER has been named head of Eli Lilly and Company's organic chemical development department. .Art is a member of the .American Chemical Society. 
1937 
Joseph P. Quinn 
P.O. Box 275, Lake Lcnape Andover, New Jersey 
REU.NTON REGISTR.ANT LOUIS \\\ VETTEL. 
1963 

Formerly assistant to the president and research coordinator. Dr. Croxall is a native of .Aberdeen, Wash., and prepped at Co­lumbia, now the U. of Portland, Ore. Coming to Xotrc Dame, he followed his 
B.S. in chemistry- with M.S. and Ph.D. degrees at the University. 
He worked briefly for General Chemical Co., New York, and then spent 15 years with Rohm & Haas Co., Philadelphia, as a research chemist and then head of the insecticide and fungicide laboratorN-. In 1951 he joined Sumner Chemical Co., a Miles subsidiary, as director of research and has served \-arious Miles Laboratories divisions as general manager, assistant to the president, director and coordinator of R. & D. He is now responsible for all re­search efforts of Miles Chemical, including chemical, biosynthesis and enzymology re­search laboratories. 
In 1932, while teaching at St. Mar>-'s and doing graduate work, Willard married Martha Jane Doran, assistant society editor of the South Bend Tribune. They now have five children: two married daughters who attended St. Mary's. Mary Beth and Trudy; Willard Jr., at Tri-State College, Angola, Ind.: Martha, at home: and Stephen, in junior high. Mary Beth (Mrs. Leonard Wahl) has five children, while Trudy (married to alumnus John McDcr­mott of the Gonzaga faculty) has three. 
Dr. Cro.xall is a member of the .Ameri­can and Electro Chemical Societies, Chem­ists Club of New York, and the Elcona Country Club. His outside interests in­clude "as much golfing and fishing as 1 can get in." 
From the .Alumni Office: 
Anyone who has seen the ad, "We're cheering because you made Tonka To\*s so big in '62," recognizes FR.ANK LESSELYONG's smiling face among his cohorts on the dapper Willy's jeep. Frank is vice-president of sales. 
A notice has been in the office concerning ALBERT J. SMITH who is organizing the advance gifts division of the Skoki'c Valley (Illinois) United Crusade (Community Chcsi). .Al lives at 4240 Bobolink Terrace, Skokle, with his wife Angela, daughter Mar>- Bridget, 16, and son Albert III, 7. He is a member of the Chicago Board of Trade specializing in the soybean futures market. His other affiliations include: president, St. Lambert Men's Club; director, Christian Brothers Boys Club of Greater Chicago; director. East Side (Skokie) Propcrtv Owners .Assn.; member, Skokle Valley Elks Club. ^ 
1938 
Buniic Bauer 
1139 Western Avenue 
South Bend 23, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS , 

LOUIS L. .A.NDERSO.\. P.AUL H. .AXDER-­SON, JOHN F. .ANTON, HUGH .ARMBRUSTER, OTIXIAM D. .ABMEL, -MARCELLUS BALL, BUR­NETT BAUER. C. VICTOR BECK, EDGAR BERNARD, JOHN BEER, J.A.MES W. BLUNT, JOHN BO.VD, CHARLES BOROWSKI, JOH.\ T. BOURKE, DR. D.A-NIEL BOYLE, JOHN P. BR.AD­DOCK, EDU'.ARD J. BRE-NNAN, JOHN BUCK-< LEY, JACOB I. BURKE, CHARLES CALLAH.AN, PATRICK J. CAREY, RICHARD M. CARRI­GAN, JAMES CARSON, EUGENE CASEY, REV. •' THO.MAS J. CLEARY. WLLIA.M CLIFFORD, JOHN CLIFFORD, DR. JOSEPH C. CLIFFORD, DAVID J. CO.VNOR, DR. JAMES N. COR­CORAN, FR.ANaS COSGROVE, JOHN COT­TINGHA.M, EDWARD J. CRONIN, .A.\DREW CROWE, FR.ANCIS CROWLEY, JOHN CUD­MORE, DO.NALD CURRIER, J. TI.MOTHY CRUICE, FRANK DEL.ANEY, JR., JOH.V DE.V­
TEX, A. WILLIAM DiBRIENZA, EUGENE DO­LAN, JAMES A. DOUGHERTY, JR., JOHN DOYLE, ROBERT DuBOIS, CHARLES W. DUKE, JAMES DUTMERS, THOMAS ELDER, DR. DENNIS EMANUEL, EDWARD H. FISHWICK, EDWARD FLANIGAN, JAMES RICHARD FO­LEY, JOHN J. FRANCIS, THO.MAS FUNK, CHARLES M. GALLAGHER, ROBERT E. GART­LAND, RICHARD GERL, ^VILLIAM J. GIB­BONS, DANIEL J. GIBBS, JOSEPH GLEASON, JAIME GOMEZ, JOHN J. GORM.AX, EDMOXD H.\GGAR, ROBERT HALBERT, THOMA S HEALY, DONALD HICKEY, FRANCIS HIG­GINS, ROBERT HOLTZ, GEORGE C. HOWARD, JR., PAUL HUGHES, DR. THOMAS HUGHES, JOHN JEHLE, JOHN P. JOYCE, JOHN KANE, OWEN KANE, JR., THOMAS K.4VANAUGH, LAWRENCE J. KERWIN, FRANCIS KESICKE, PHILLIP KIRCH, FR.ANCIS KIRCHMAN, H. J. "HUB" KIRCH.MAN, JOHN KLISE, JR., CHARLES A. KOLP, JR., JOSEPH KUHARICH, JAMES H. LAHEY, R. NICHOLAS LAMBERTO, HAROLD LANGTON, SAMUEL S. LAWLER, PAUL LEAHY, J. RUSSELL LONGON, RAY­MONO LONGSTRETH, JOHN E. L'iTCCH, ROB­ERT A. McGRATH, JOHN C. McKENDRY, HENRY J. MACKIX, JERO.ME MAGEE, JOHN 
P. MAHONEY, REV. W. T. .MAHONEY, O.P., WALTER MARSHALL, ROBERT J. MAZANEC, FRANCIS MAY, WALTER J. MONACELLI, DR. DANIEL -MONAGHAX, E. J. "JOE" MOORE, CHARLES M. MORRISON, CHARLES MOR­ROW, ROBERT V. MULLE.\, THOMAS P. MULLIGAN, JOHN MURPHY, PAUL NOWAK, WILLI.AM F. O'BRIEN, JOHN C. O'CONNOR, FRANCIS J. O'LAUGHLIN, JOHN PLOUFF, JOHN POORE, RALPH POPE, FR.VNCIS PRUSHA, ANDREW PUPLIS, REV. ADRUN RACE, B. SCOTT RE.\RDON, BROTHER REG­INALD, C.S.C., CLARK REYNOLDS, WILLIAM 
J. RILEY, WILLIAM H. ROBINSON, JOSEPH ROU-E, FRANCIS RUSSELL, RICHARD J. SCAXNELL, FRANCIS X. SCHAEFER, GEORGE SCHLAUDECKER, CLARENCE SCHUMACHER, ROBERT SHEA, EMERY "BUD" SHERWOOD, LEO.VARD SKOGLUND, JR., DR. EUGENE SMITH, EDWARD SNELL, F. J. SOLON, JR., P.\TRICK STILLISAXO, ANTHONY SULESKI, D.ANIEL SULLIVAN, CHARLE S SWEENEY, EDWARD J. SWEENEY, JOHN THOMAS, JO­SEPH THORNBURG, EDWARD A. UNUCKE, CASIMER VANCE, EUGENE VASLETF, JOHX W.ATERS, JR., HERBERT WEBER, ROBERT WHITECOTTOX, HAROLD WILLIAMS, THOM.AS W. WTJKOVTTS, JOHN ZERBST. 
Thcv came . . . they saw . . . they concurred 
. . . that this was the best Reunion, by the best 
Cla» ever at Notre Dame. 
Exactly 161 stalwarts, counting PAUL NOWAK and GENE SMITH as only one each, piled into the Silver Anniversary headquarters in Morrissey Hall as early as Thursday, June 13th. CHUD SaANNEL and TOM MULLIGAN called General Chairman ED CRONIN Thursday afternoon and almost convinced him his South Bend Reunion crew u-as a day late with preparations. When they did come, the preparations were worth the trip, starting with the lobster dinner Friday night, the all-night smorgasbord in the Rockne lounge Friday and Saturday night, the President's lunch for the Silver Anniversary Class Saturday noon, the .Alumni Ban­quet Sattu^ay night and closing with F.ATHER J.ACK -ANTON'S Mass Sunday morning. 
Best part of the whole trip was the one ED MOULDER and JIM LAHEY arranged around the campus in an open-top bus propelled by ED CRONIN's imexpurgated commentaries. Example: "To the left is the stadium, where they are now carrying on a scientific experiment in raising grass." 
For several this was the first time back to the campus since FATHER O'HARA (the late Cardinal) handed us our diploma—something they no longer do at graduation—in fact, they don't even read ofT the names, just say, all those who have been certi­fied by the various deans are now declared graduated —the price of bigness. 
J.ACK McKENDRY came ba d from Buffalo for the first u'me because of TED FLANIGAN'i urging. JOHN DENTON, the old song bird of Morrissey sub, now in the concession business in Chicago was back for the first time, even though he had a daughter graduate from St. Mary's last year. BOB REILLEY returned for the first time from Miami. 
\Vhile their silver-haired daddies were eating lobster which JOHN MURPHY, CHUCK BOROW­SKI, CELLY BALL and JAKE BURKE set up Fridav night, local wives entertained returning wives' of '38 at Margaret and BILL GIBBONS' home, among whom were Mrs. DICK GERL, from Manitowoc, Wisconsin, and Mrs. S.AM L.AWLER 
from Jacksonville, Fla. Younger guests included Sam Lawler's son Rust>* who was entertained by my son. Matt Bauer, and Susie Crowe who ac­companied her dad MIKE GROOVE, back from San Gabriel, Calif., and stayed at the Bauer house­hold. Paul Xowak's son Mike came along and visited his grandparents in South Bend. 
DON HICKEY prepared a program that included pictures of the deceased members of the Class which will be mailed to all members of the Class that didn't return. FATHER JOE RACE and FATHER BILL MALOXEY said Masses Saturday morning for our departed classmates. A special remembrance was made for JOHN THULIS who died just the week before Reunion, on June 9lh in Chicago. A visitor at the Sunday Mass remarked, "That's the first silent collection I ever sa\v," as our basket over­flowed with the green for our clergy classmates, following Father .Anton's whispered greetings (he lost his voice reminiscing) and Father Joe Race's sermon. 
A sprained arm bv PETE SHEEHAN and an ulcer attack by TOM HEALY gave Doctors DENNY E.MANUEL from Ottumwa, Iowa, and REGGIE DiBRIENZA, Brooklyn, a chance for some free practice while Dr. TOM HUGHES, Columbus, kept Father Anton's voice from fading out entirely. Dr. JOE CORCOR:\N's services were refused by Pete and Tom when they heard he was an obstetrician. By late Saturday night Dr. DENNY BOYLE was talking about moving his psychiatric practice from Trenton to Rockne. TOM HEtVLVs \vilc came out from Chevy Chase, Md.. and stayed at CHUCK SWEENEY'S and LOUIE "PADUa\H" ANDERSON'S Blue and Gold Motel in Roscland while Tom was recuperating in the hospital for a week. Dr. JIM BLUNT, from Brookton, Mass., who also has nine cliildrcn because, according to his neighbor JOE CORCOR,\N, delivery is free, could not help as he was riding herd on CHICK G.ALLAGHER to keep his chances for libel at a minimum. PAUL LEAHY, who sells hospital equip­ment out of Tiffin, Ohio, was wishing that all these doctors were in his territory. Paul has 4 ho>-s and 3 girls and is already a grandfather. He has a son, a sophomore at Notre Dame. While other grand-
FRANCIS R. CAWLEY, '33, became executive director of the Lithographers and Printers National Assn. last spring, re­signing as vice-president of the Magarine Publishers Assn. after 10 years as head of the Washington, D.C., office. A George­tt>\s-n LL.B. and a CPA, Frank won a Gold Medal Award as director of budget and management for the Commerce Dept., headed printing and publishing for the wartime WPB and the depression NRA, and directed budgets for six different federal agencies, besides teaching at Georgetown, Syracuse and the U. of Florida. Spotlighted every 11 years, he won notice in these colimins in 1941 and 1952. 
fathers. PAUL HUGHES and CHUCK SWEENEV were making us feel old showing their grand* childrens* pictures around, ED SWEENEY, the old Morrissey subdite now in Indianapolis made us all young again shou-ing us his three childrcn> all pre-schoolers. 
Pictures in football silhouette were taken of all by Chuck Sweeney, BOB DUBOIS and CLAYTON JODON, whUe NELS VOGEL was collecting the registration fee at the door. CHARLEY CALLA­HAN also had some pictures taken at the Class dinner of some of the athletes including JOE KUHARICH, TO&AfY WUKOVTTS. BABE MAR­SHALL, DENNY EMANUEL. ANDY FUPUS, JOE GLEASON and LEN SKOGLUND. Track­men JOHN FRANCIS, ED BERNARD, DAN GIBBS, PETE SHEEHAN, and BILL CLIFFORD took turns listening to HAL LANGTON's explana­tion of his new jointed fiberglass vaulting pole with TEX HAGGAR taking up the slack(s) in between. If Haggar slacks are offered with pole vaulting poles in the future, credit the Class of *38 Reunion with a marketing first. 
Baseball Captain CHUCK BOROWSKI replayed a few games with JOHNNY BRADDOCK, JIM CARSON, and DOC CORCORAN while fielding ice cubes which he ^v'as in charge of In the Rock. 
The Journalists, headed by the old Scholastic editor-in-chief, GENE VASLETT, who made It back 3 first time, all the way from California, huddled several times but for fear this column be discussed, I avoided HALL \VILLLIAMS, JOHN CLIFFORD, TOM HEALY, NICK LAMBERTO and GEORGE SCHLAUDECKER (Old Catalyzer editor) whenever they started surrounding me. 
Grandest sight ye ever saw was the grand march of the Class from the Rockne to the North Dining Hall for the Alumni Banquet Saturday night, led by the kilted Caledonia Bagpipe Band from Misha-u'aka. A huge banner proclaiming modestly the unassailable fact that ours was the best class in X.D.'s history was carried by the two who came the farthest distance: RUSS LONGDON, who is ^vith Chrysler in Geneva, Switzerland, and JAIME GOMEZ from Manizales, Colombia. Jaime stayed over a week visiting with CLARENCE SCHU­MACHER in Klishawaka before heading for his mile-high ranch in the Colombian mountains. 

A few couldn't make it at the last minute but sent greetings, including DON FISHER, who did most of the work of the pre^aous Reunions, but this time arranged for his nepheiv to get married in Kansas, the Honorable WILLUAf T-BONE ^LA­HONEY from his Ambassador's post in Africa, TOM FITZGERALD who had just moved from Indianapolis to Lau-ndale, California, TOM BO­HEN, who was in the midst of his finals for his Doctorate at Minnesota U., REDMAN DUGGAN who gave a series of lectures at Notre Dame In April on Africa^ but was back in Asia for the state department. Redman lost his sight about a year ago and now is on special assignments utiliz­ing his many years experience in African diplomatic posts. He was abo a member of the U.S. United Nations delegation in 1956-57. BOB LEON.ARD stopped earlier on a trip to Chicago from Wilming­ton, Del. 
Special mention should be given to DON HICKEY who not only helped set up area chair­men before the Reunion but made up the programs and Memoriam, arranged for the Rock, Masses, breakfasts, all night snacks, and met a dozen refreshment crises on the run with help from JAKE BURKE. Special praise goes to NELSON VOGEL who handled the finances almost within the budget, calling only two minor cabinet meet­ings—whose cabinets he raided he won't divulge. 
Notes from the back of napkins or business cards (idea from JOHN FRANCIS): CHARLEY DUKE is the new national concessions manager for A^is Rent-A-Car system and will move to New York. BOB SHEA, sales manager for Public Works Mag. in Chicago, drc^v a Royal Flush in spades Saturday night. BOB HALBERT, distria manager with Liberty Mutual In Chicago, has a daughter starting St. Mary's this fall, 4 daughters In all. VIC BECK, lawyer in Cleveland, has a son at Xavier U. and GEORGE SCHLAUDECKER has two there. JACK McKENDRY has seven children, two at Buffalo U., also in two businesses selling to industries. JOHN LYNCH is now Ashta­bula, Ohio, postmaster, and says bachelor JOHN MAHONEY gets perfumed letters just like Father Farley used to detect on the Sorin steps. BOB DERENGOSKI, long sufiTcring resident of Lansing (Michigan State) is solicitor general of Michigan. JOHN POORE is GE district manager in Dallas. 23 years with GE, 20 In Texas. CHICK GAL­LAGHER has an 8 golf handicav. should be 5, says JOE CORCORAN. CLARK REYNOLDS flew from here to Puerto Rico on company busi­ness for Union Bag, he says. BUB CROWLEY 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ AugustSeptembeTj 2963 43 
lilpl' 

PANAMA — A sweep of the tables at the gala UND Night in Panama City shows (roughly I.-r.): Arq. & Mrs. Jose B. Cardena, Mr. & Mrs. Carlos Charbonnet, Capt. & Mrs. Bob Davidson, Lt & Mrs. Bill Flynn, two unidentified guests, Capt. & Mrs. Frank Olazabal, Mrs. Joe Harrington, and Eduardo Dominguez; Mrs. Eduardo Dominguez, Mrs. Antonio Domingucz, Prcs. Lorenzo Romagoza, Msgr. Tclin Alvorado (representing Bishop McGrath), Antonio Domingucz, and Mrs. Romagoza; Mr. & Mrs. Charlie Hummer, Ing. & Mrs. JaWcr Guardia, Ing. & Mrs. Rene Orillac, Mr. & Mrs. Fred Humbert, Mr. & Mrs. Albert G. de Parcde, Mr. & Mrs. Luis G. de Parede. Among those present but not sho>vn were Mr. & Mrs. Guillermo Patterson. 
5pcnt several months in hospital last winter, but uas well enough lo make the Kentucky Derby in Lexington where he has a drugstore and never bets on anvthing but a Kcntuckv hor^e. Bub, JOE THORNBERG and FRANK COSGRO\^ had a phannacj- table Friday night, with John Beer as guest. PAUL ANDERSON teaches at Duquesne in Pittsburgh. LEN TOBIN didn't make it from Rhode Island w'here he is general manager of the Standish Mills, but \*isited tlie campus three years ago as president of the Maine Notre Dame Club which he helped form. 
Another sad note In the midst of all the good cheer was word that BILL McOUlTHY's father died in May. Let us remember him in our prayers. 
FATHER HESBURGH missed the President's Luncheon %v'ith his own Class because he w*as ac' cepting an honorar>' degree from Northvvestcm, but he made it back for tlie Alumni dinner. \^ce' President FATHER JOYCE took his place at the noon luncheon and fielded ver>' well some hot questions throu-n at him by JI^^ L.\HEV, Dr. DAN AfONAGHAN, HAL L-ANGTON, JOHN O'CONNOR and a dozen others on such subjects as de-emphasis of football (denied), with a new field house (soon) doesn't the dropping of Phy. Ed. department cut down on attraction of football recruits {ver\' few football players majored in phy, ed. in recent years), and wasn't it a mistake to call HUGHIE DEVORE an "interim" coach (Pope John was called an interim pope, too). Tlits no­holds-barred session was wortli the trip alone, as were a dozen "other events according to the returnees. Those of you who didn't make it should resolve right now to join us in 5 years for the 30th. In the mean­time, do write. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Wc heard from recent Spotlight alum F. J. SOLON who had returned from Reunion \\'eekcnd with FRANCIS MAY. He had the following com­ments: "I'd like you to know, and to pass on to Jim Armstrong, the fact that this was the best Reunion Weekend AVC'VC ever attended. It was great fun reminiscing with a lot of gu>-s we hadn't seen since our graduation in '38." 
Request for change of address was received from D.ANIEL G. MONAGHAN, JR. New abode: 1001 Third Street, S.W. No. 502, ^Vashington 24, D.C. 
F. L. "MIKE" IwlYDEN, former president of the Alumni Association, has been named general public relations super^'isor of Indiana Bell Tele­phone, Indianapolis, where he will reside. 
From The Moonsocket (R.I.] Call comes a picture of CARLETON G. MACDOUGALD and his three daughters, Martha, Carleen and Catherine, all dressed in blue and gold N.D. emblem sweaters. The Macdougalds were on hand to tvelcome HUGH DEVORE's flight from New York in order to ^rish the new Irish boss good luck. 
1939 
James N. Motschall Singer-Motscball Corp. 
10090 West Chicago 
Detroit 4, Micliigan 
REUNION REGISTRANTS FRANCIS X. BRADLEY, JOSEPH M. COR­CORAN, ROBERT A. DERENGOSKI, WLUA M 
J. McNAiURA, ROBERT REILLY, ROBERT SCHRAMM, NELSON VOGEL, GEORGE WIL­LIAMS. 
1940 
James G. Brown 
144 East 44th Street New York, New York 
REUNION REGISTRA.VT NORBERT SCHICEL. 
From the Alumni Office: JAMES V. DONOGHUE, a ticc-president at 

A. G. Becker & Co. (Chicago), is general chairman for the annual convention of the First Marine Di\'ision Association, a national group composed of Marines and sailors who serx'ed on active ser\*ice *\-ith the Fleet Marine Force unit during W.W. 11, the Korean campaign, and the peacetime years. Jim is a colonel in the Marine Corps Rcser\'e and has regular and reser\'c serxice dating to 1941. 
JOSEPH C- O'CONTCELL, associate business manager at New York University-, has been promoted to business manager. He was business manager of Hunter College in Manhattan from 1954 until 1951. From 1943 to 1954, he u-as an administrative officer for the United States government, helping to organize administrative and financial matters for the Nuremberg War Crime Trials and the Berlin Air Lift. Joe resides at 183 Harding Road, Glen Rock, New Jersey, , 

WILLL\.M H. COLE.\LAN has been elected for a three-year term to the board of trustees of the Cleveland Health Museum. Bill is chairman of Twin Industries Corp., Banner Metals, Inc. and .AIco Chemical Corp., as well as being a partner in the banking department of the New York Stock Exchange investment banking house of Ball, Burge and Kraus. Whew! 
1941 

James F. Spcllman 7 East 42nd Street New York 17, New York 
This column is being wTitten on the eve of the 1963 Reunions; enough of an incentive to try and tell all you good 194I'er5 the bits of good n«'ws that have arrived since the last column. The drive for dues has produced both funds and news. Many of you scribble notes on the reverse of the dues invoices; others, bless 'em, take the trouble to write letters. To be sure, ALL are most welcome. Just keep them coming. 
Our Class fund now stands at $1,902.30. A wonderful start for our 25th in 1966. As I stated in the Fcbruar>--Marcli issue, none of the following names has been published; and none will be repeated. Those desiring to send their full fivc-vcar dues (S25) are HULTGREN, ROBIDOUX, MONAGHAN (JOHN), KELLY (THOS. F.), McCANTtfA (DR.), POHL, OSBORN, ALPS, HENSLEE, ODEN*BACH, COTTOR, AfclNERNEY. CATTIE, .XfcGAUGHEY, LOPARDO, KATTER (DR.). BRODERICK, O'BRIEN (JOHN "DAYTON"), SIEVERT, BOSS, SPELL\L%N, DELIA, BREXNAN (DR.), L.4M. BERT, CONNOR (THOS. H.), GREENE (GEO.), and CARSON (ED). In the SIO category are BROCKMAN, SCHMIDLE, O'LOUGHLIN (JOHN), and MEAN'Y (DR.) Tlie S5 list is also a long one: MULLIN (R. P.), ESSICK, WOLF (see item at end). BROWN (WIL.), NIELD, SCHLESSIER, BYRNES (M. S.), WOODS (WM. J.). CONLEY (J. .A.), ^\'EAHL, McDONOUGH (F.), SMYTH (J. v.) , POSNER (DR.), De-SIMON (A. E.), ASELAGE, TALTY, TINNEY, WALSH (L.), O'SHAUGHNESSY (R.), MURR.AY (JIM), O'CONNOR (RICH.), HASTENS, HEIN­ZEN. WLSON {^VM.), HANNIGAN (JIM), TIEDEMAN*N, PAVEGLIO, KELLY (RAY), McNAMARA (DR. J.), and a $5 check from GEORGE £. (and I think it may be RASSAS) of Montgomery ^lotor Sales, Morton Grove, III. Please correct me on this last one, please. That is the complete roster since tlie last one. If I have omitted anybody, for goodness sakcs let me know'! 
From BOB OSBORN, a long letter, datelincd South Dakota (Huron). Bob figured his 5-yr. pay­ment would be a good deductible item in 1962. and he is 100% correct. Sa>-s that all you Republicans will be happy to know that South Dakota has just elected its first Democrat U.S. Senator in 25 yrs. (Couldn't happen in Wcsicliester!!).. Bob's family of five girls and four boys is fine. The most recent arrival was in March, 1962. Bob has a cliain of five men's clothing stores; two in Rapid City, two in Huron and one (brand-new) in Sioux Falls. In addition, he has a 32-lane bowling alley in Aberdeen, and a 20-lane in Mitchell. .Add to that a business in sugar beets and you see that at least one of our Class has been highly successful. Bob's Spanish that he learned at ND allows him to converse with the Mexican laborers that he imports to help har\est the beets. But hxs golf has not been up to par. ^Miose has? Bob sees JACK BURKE occasionally; and a\-ails himself of Jack's legal talent. Wants to be remembered to DON TIEDE.MAN'N and .AL PERRINE. Thanks, Bob; would have liked to have seen you if you had come cast to BriardifF Manor. 
From SAM NIELD; Sam can't believe that he and I are both in N'YC and never see each other. 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 
That's all right, Sam, IVe got relatives in NYC that I don*t see, cither. Sam is at This Week Magazine, 485 Lexington Avenue. If I remember correctly, we both come from R. I., right, Sam? From BOB BYRNES, at Mutual of Omaha in r Kalamazoo, Mich. Bob moved to Kalamazoo \'ia 
I Omaha in September, 1962. He had been in Rich­mond, Ind., for two years, in Fowler, Ind., for nine 
i •" years, and Omaha, one year. Has his own "shop" and hopes that the last move will be permanent. Hasn't seen any of the Class, yet. Has four girls and two boys ranging in age from a sophomore in college to a pupil in the first grade. At the time of his letter he had thirty inches of snow on the ground. We didn't have that much all winter, Bob. 
' A brief, but nonetheless most welcome note from BILL COTTER. Sends his best holiday wishes: and says he might see me in the big town in *63. Can't '^- miss me because I'm right smack in the middllc of Gotham. MIKE McGAUGHEY found his dues check in an "old suit." Some of you alumni please search through your old clothes!! Thanks, Mike. LARRY WALSH asks mc to drop him a line to Philadelphia. Says he will sec mc at the Syracuse came. I'll be there, Larry. In case you don't know, r the ND Club of NY is having a big shindig the night before the game and the afternoon after the game, both at the Waldorf-Astoria. Exact plans ^ not yet formulated as to cost, time, etc., but better rcscr\'e that time on both days. From JOHN (Dayton) O'BRIEN; sends his dues civing the Fund priority over his Christmas bills! Johnny sees BILL HOYNE regularly; says Bill is as mean as ever!! Any reply to that, Mr. Hoj-ne? John hopes that the Fund has a good response; and so far, I believe it is vcr>* encouraging. From BILL WILSON; says he is looking for%vard to our 25th Reunion. Billy liked the way the 20th was catered, I think we all enjoyed it, thanks to Tinncy and Co. From JOHN O'LOUGHLIN; will call me one of these days. John works for Bell Telephone, I believe; an\-way, he is a telephone expert, and calls mc now and then (mostly then). What do you hear from Maine, John? From RAY KELLY; hb son Ray III graduates this month (June) ^^'ith a major in English. Ray, himself, is a partner in NY Stock Exchange firm Wm. Roney & Co.; also Ray is the local county chairman for the Republican Party. He is looking forward to the 25th, and extends his cordial w*el­^ come to any of the Class of Ml who may be in Flint, Mich., for a beer, a lunch or just plain bull session! From JERRY PAVEGLIO; Jcrr>- explained his absence from our 20th get-together because of financial reverses. Hope you have recouped by now, Jerry. He has started a new career in Real Estate. ^ Has five children, one of whom graduates currently from high school, and will try to matriculate at ND come September. Hope he makes it, Jerr>'. His (Jerry's) wife is an instructor at the Univ. of Wisconsin, teaching English. In the meantime, Jcrr>­has found time to be the top salesman in his ofHce. Congratulations and keep it up. We wont you at the campus in '66. AR.MAND LOPEZ and JOE GILTINAN had breakfast with your scribe during the winter. Present, also. Was Armand's lovely wife. They had moved to Ft. Wayne just before coming to New York. ,\rmand's card reads Platka Export, subsidiar>- of ^ The Perfect Circle Corporation. He is VP for Sales. Joe Giltinan is in a related industr\', for ChcvTolet Division of GM. Joe's boy is presently at ND. We had a wonderful time reminiscing, and all of us plan to do it again as soon as Armand comes to tou-n. Also, had lunch with VINNIE SPOSATO, whose ofhce Is right across the street from minc-Vinnie is with Fischbach-McCoach, Management Consultants, He>- ERWIN MOONEY and JOHN O'DEA!! Had a telephone call from GILES SIANELLONI or 
* (ScancUoni) of 1 Gracy Terrace, NYC. Works for National Sugar Refining Co., 100 Wall St., NYC. Was kicked out of Cuba by the bearded one. Would like to get in touch with either or both of you. 
You will note above receipt of dues from LOUIS WOLF, from Valparaiso, Ind. Shortly after sending 
- his dues, Louis died, April 21, 1963. Please say a prayer for his soul. Our sincere sj-mpathy goes to his family. That's all for this Issue. Keep the dues 
' and the news coming. 
From the Alumni Office: F.VTHER LOUIS MEYER, C.S.C., was named head of Catholic Relief Services for Uganda, East Africa. Father's offices will be in the capital city of Kampala where he will be in charge of setting up a whole CRS program to help the new .African nation. 
CARLTON G. MACDOUGALD, '38, show­ing the .same determmation that pulled him through after a near-fatal automobile crash in 1955, was pictured by the "Woon­socket Call" keeping a long vigil in Provi­dence, R.I., with pretty daughters Martha, Carleen and Catherine, when Coach Hugh Devore was delayed in arriving from New-York for a UND Night appearance. 
1942 
William M. Hickcy 3333 West 47th Place 
Chicago 32, Illinois 
JIM McNULTT[*, the esteemed commander, beat the esteemed weekend warrior STEVE GRALIKER at Jim^s home course. North Shore Country Club last week. 
JIM M.-\GARAHAN has moved from New York back to Spariansburg. South Carolina, the home town of FATHER NED JOYCE, and his other NT) brothers J.-XCK and LYLE, He reports that Spartans-burg has a surprbing number of ND men including JIM CROWLEY, the ARMSTRONG boys, JACK and TOM. He reports that they are under the influence of another ND man—FATHER TOM MACKLIN — which undoubtedly led many of them to ND. Jim is in the textile business associated with Lyman Printing & Finishing Co. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Bill sends his apology to GEORGE RUDOLPH who was omitted from the list of attendants for the First International Notre Dame Convention. 
.And your editor would like to apologize for failing to notice that Bill's column was listed under and after our .Mumnl Office releases. We hope that you will all note that your faithful sccretar>- did not miss reporting news for the last Issue. 
1943 
Jack Wiggins 5125 Briggs Avenue La Crescenta, Calif. 
REU.MO.V REGISTRANTS 

JULI.\N G. ATWATER, MAURICE BADDOUR, JAMES F. BAU.MGARTNER, HERB BECKER, REV. GEORGE BERNARD, C.S.C., JOHN BO­SAK, ANTHONY BUONO, AUGUSTUS BURKE, CHARLES J. BUTLER, EDWARD CALLAHAN, HENRY J. CARACCIOLO, ROBERT W. COL­LINS, MIKE COMERFORD, VINCENT J. COM­NISA, FRANCIS J. CONFORTI, TOM CONLEY, GEORGE COFFIN, TOM COURTNEY, GERALD CURRIER, ART CZAPIEWSKI, EDWARD F. DAVIS, ROBERT DEGENHART, RICHARD DILTZ, CV DO.VEG.AN, BILL DOUCETTE, A. F. 
"BUD" DUDLEY, JOHN H. DUNN, ED DU­QUETTE, WILUAM EARIXV, FRANK EBNEK, FRED EVANS, THOM.AS M. FAKMEK, EUGENE 
A. FEHUG, JOHN FINNIGAN, FAUI. A. FISHER, RAYMOND R. FLYNN, JO E FRE­TAGUE, JAMES J. GALLAGHER, FRED CANS, JOHN GILLIGAN, FREDERICK GORE, JOHN GREENE, JOHN GRIFFIN, RICHARD GUL­LING, DAN HAGAN, RICHARD HEISER, HANS HELLAND, %VILLL\M HERZOG, JOSEPH R. HILLEBRAND, EDWARD L. HOLLAND, OLI­VER H. HUNTER, III, JOSEPH JACOB, COR­NELIUS A. JOHNSON, WILLIAM JOHNSON, FRANK KAISER, LEO KEATING, JAMES L. KELLY, RICHARD W. KELLY, BOB KING, DANIEL KLEIN, DONALD H. KOTZ, WALTER 
F. KRAWEC, JOSEPH KREMER, W. CL.AIR LAMBERT, JOHN LANAHAN, ROBERT Lc-MENSE, DR. PAUL T. LEONARD, LEO LEfVIS. LEO LINCK, BOB McCAFFERTY, WILLIA.M T. McCAUGHEY, RICHAR D D . McCORMICK, BLAIR McGOW.AN, JACK McGRATH, JOHN McHALE, BOB MADDEN, ANTHONY ^L\. LONEY, DR. MARIO D. MASSULO, HERBERT MELTON, WILLUM B. MIDDENDORF, G. V. MIHOLICH, PETE MORITZ, JACK MORRISON, ROBERT G. MUELLMAN, EDWARD N. HUR­RAY, EDWARD F. NEAGLE, AL OLIVER, KEVLV OTOOLE, ROBERT OWENS, NICHOLAS PALELLA, BENZO PESAVENTO, ^URK PFAI^ LER, JOHN B. PO>VERS, JOHN RAOE.MAKER. ROBERT J. REALE, JOHN F. REG.AN, D.\VID 
J. ROLFS, EDWARD C. RONEY, JR., JOHN SCHINDLER, R.AY SCHOONHOVEN, WILIXUI SCULLY, WAYNE SHRIWISE, DANIEL STEW­.•\RT, BILL STEWART, QUENTIN C. STURM. \VILLIAM F. SULLIVAN, THOMAS SWEENEY. JOHN H. TALLETT, ROBERT TIM.MERM.AN. BILL UNG.ASHICK, RALPH VINCIGUERRA. ^V^LLIAM WAELDNER, JOHN E. WALSH. JOHN J. WALSH, JOHN A. WARNER, JOHN 
P. WIETHOFF, JOHN L. WGGINS, JOHN WOOD, WALLY ZIE.MB.\, CHARLES ZITNIK. GUS A. ZUEHLKE. 
The 20th Reunion weekend on campus was a gasser! We had a record Reunion registration of 130, registrants came from Mexico. Florida, Wash­ington, California, New York and such far flung places as exotic South Bend, Indiana. 
FATHER GEORGE BERNARD, C.S.C., cele­brated the Mass on Saturday morning and FATHER BOB PELTON, C.S.C., celebrated the Mass on Sunday morning in Sorin Hall chapel for the Class of M3. Our Reunion began on Friday aftemooD \%'ith the traditional '43 pizza-beer bust. During the day there were campus tours and the daylong golf tournament. GENE FEHLIG, incidentally, ivas the winner of the young men's tournament. On Fri­day evening prizes were awarded as follows: Most Children: GEORGE COPPIN, Enumdaw, Wash. .An interesting sidelight is that Coppin, BILL MIDDEN­DORF, and BLAIR .McGOWAN were tied for tliit honor, but George "copped" the prize on a draw. Traveled Greatest Distance to .Attend: BILL WALSH, Mexico Citv. Reunionist with youngest child: JACK WIGGINS. A special award. The Albie Booth Award (First .Annual) for 1%-y League Officiating by a Notre Dame Almnus of 1943 went to JACK WARNER who was roundly booed (as all good ofEcials should be!]. 
On Saturday there was more golf, there were more campus tours, climaxed by the pre-banquct cocktail party in the Law* Building Lounge. At the banquet OLLIE HUNTER made one of the two major addresses. Hunter was treated to a political convention type demonstration replete tvith placards and firetvorks as he was introduced. Upholding the great tradition of '43, Ollie donned the blue-and­gold beret as he gave his address. The beret worn during the reunion weekend by our Class was the most envied headgear seen on campus. The jazzy headgear was arranged by BILL E.ARLEY (I suppose after due consultation with Chrbtian Dior). Earley did a magnificent job, as usual, in arranging the entire weekend. For his untiring efforts the Class presented him with a pair of .Amie Palmer golf slacks guaranteed by Gilbert*SH>n*the-campus to improve his game. 
For most the twentieth was the fourth reunion, for many it was the first; all agreed that it was not the last. In fact, those who attended for the first time asked me to stress the 23th Reunion beginning now. They felt you were really missing something BIG if vou did not attend the Reunions. 
DICK KELLY reports: TOM FINUCANE, S.J. is an economics professor at Regis College, Denver Colorado ... . J.ACK O'MALLEY is manager of Emery, Bird &. Thayer, Kansas City, Mo. Jack has four children ... . JIM FAGAN of the Huntsville, Alabama, N.AS.\ facility has two adopted children, 
Xotre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 45 
20 and 18 yrars old .. . . HUGH SKIDMORE. Automatic Electric Co. Sales lives in Palatine, III., auid has se\*en kids, 4 through 15 years of age ... . TOM HERLim* is a pilot for ZoUncr Piston Co., Detroit and Ft, Wa\Tie. Tom lives in Royal Oak, Alich., and has 8 children. 
1944 
George Bariscillo, Jr. 416 Bnriiii^on Ave. Bradley Beach, N. J. 
REU.\'IOX REGISTRANTS NORMAN J. BARRV, WALTER JO.VES, GR.AHAM .McGOU'AN. 
TTianks lo the good cfToris of FR.AXK VIGNOL.A 
(Vignola Furniture Company) and our Chicagoland 
\lcc-Presidcnt, BILL KENNY (Patten Tractor & 
Equipment Co.), the column has a number of 
interesting items about our Chicago brethren. 
Universal Notre Dame Night brought out the 
likes of FRANK RO.MAN (BROTHER RO.MAN), 

FR,ANK ROMANO, STRATFE COORLAS, JI.M CLASS of '42 sportsmen, holding an off-season reunion at Florida's first "Inter­
PLAIT, ED .MONAHAN, JACK SEGERSO.N, 

national" ND Convention, West End, Grand Bahama Island, included (from left) 
JACK THORNTON, JACK COAKER, JACK 

McINERNEY, .MILT FLYKE, WALT ROGERS, Don Hogan, Tom Walker, ''Doc'' Glazier, Bill Marshall, Bill Hickey, George 
BILL KENNX FRANK WALDECK, JIM KANE, Rudolph and Bill Madden, apparently interrupted during a "friendly game." 
JLM ANTON, GE-VE FILAWSKI, ED DUNIG.AN, 
BILL LEARY, JOE FAR\LAR, "RED" JOHN­
MURPHY, J. HOBIE .MURN.\-NE, PAUL COLI­
ANNT, JI.M WHALEN, DO.M BOETTO, BILL S. TUCKEY recently had his book Mark Twain Holy Cross High School, Flushing, Ne^v York. 

FORD, BILL HUSSEY, HARRY LAVERY, and Little Satan: The Writing of "The M>-sieriom has for its librarian, BROTHER FRANCISCUS CHUCK ROGERS and FRANK VIG.VOLA. 

Stranger" published. John did copious research at WILLET, CS.C, In addition to his B.S., he also -Vignola reports that FATHER HESBURGH's the University of California and elsewhere on the has his Master of .Arts from N.D. and his Master address u-as "stirring" and the finest "ever heard," original, unpublished manuscripts. Noted Twain of Library Sdence from St. Johns U. (Brooklyn). 
and Frank reports our Class of '-H attendees re­scholar Henry Nash Smith, "Tuckcy's condusions BOB L.ARKIN is program director of Catholic mained longer than any other group, probably 

discussing plans for attending our 20th Reunion difTcr markedly from prevalent assumptions, but Youth Orsanization for the Archdiocese of Newark, his marshaling of both internal and external eridence Essex Countj* Division. Bob is a member of the 

next June at Notre Dame. JACK SEGERSON inquired for JOE RUD, ^vho 

seems convindng." Newark Youth Board. He, his wife Mar>-, and their **-as last heard from doivn Texas ^vay. JOHN 
Dr. DANIEL J. ROURKE is a member of the two boys li\*e at 134 Grove Street, Montclair, New attending medical staflf of Ellis Hospital, St. Clare's Jersey. 
HOM.\N missed UND Night, but expressed as­
Hospital and Sunn>'vicw Hospital in Schenectady, 

surance he M-ill be at our 20th. John has given up "Mr. Perpetual Motion" keeps going strong— 
New York, where he began practice in 1953. Dan 

the bowling proprietor business for a stock brokerage AL LESMEZ recently got his Master in Education 
was a member of the original Schenectady County 

\*-ith Re>-nolds Company. MILT FL\7CE is now-from .Adelphia College. Our former class secretar>' 
Mental Health Board, is a member of the Medical 

Chief Engineer at Brach's, the world's largest is marketing 5er\'ices manager for Potter Instrument ,<
Society of the County of Schenectady, Xeiv York 

genera! candy manufacturer. Milt lives near \']gnoIa Company, Plainview, Long Island. 
State Medical Sodct\- and the .American Medical 
and gave him two bags of chocolate drops for driving The former Y.C.S. leader, HARRY BERLINER, Assodation. 
him to the Hilton for UND Night. 

is District Attorney of Nevada County, California. "~' HARRY LA\^RY, \vho spends his \-acation in He is also President of Berliner & McGinnis Inc., 
the Pacific Northwest, is practicing law in Chicago 1945 greeting card publishers. Mar>' Ann and Harr\' . . . JACK SEGERSON is Sales Manager for AVard 

have se\'en children. Baking Co. . . . RO.\L\NO a Frank M. Linchan "RAPID ROBERT" OTOOLE, former Economic 
 FIL\NK is partner in the law firm of Romano, Rice & O'Brien . . . 

Roundtable President, is President of OToole, Inc., 
JIM KANE is another practicing attorney and 29 Burr Drive an at 435 N. Michigan
 advertising agency Avenue. 

GENE FILAA\'SKI is vice-president of Fairfield Dalton, Massachusetts Chicago. Linng in South Holland, Illinois, Bob and sSavings and I.oan .Association . . . JIM WHALEN Elizabeth have two bo>'s and t^vo girls. Bob is Chair­is an insurance agent . . . FRANK WALDECK is REUNION REGISTRANT man of the South Holland Planning Commission. 
wee-president and controller for ^fa^sh Instrument BROCK LYNCH. A nice spread on TOM BERGIN in the ^farch * Company in Skokie, III. . . . JIM ANTON keeps 15 issue of the SCHOLASTIC. He has recently been busy selling advertising space and oil drilling invest­BILL GRANT reports in from Erie, Pa., where promoted to full professorship. Tom is quite active ments, and checks in with BILL HUSSEY and he is an agent for Penn Mutual Life Insurance at the University—he is Head of Department of JACK MORAN during his travels around tlie Company. Married and the father of three boys Business Organization and Management, Secretary' **Loop." 

and a girl, he is vcr>' active in Erie community of the General Faculty, and a member of the Bill Kenny enclosed EDDIE DUNIGAN's Christ­activities. He is on the Board of Directors of the Faculty Board in control of athletics. He expects to mas card displaying the famous Dunigan smile, United Fund, Civic Tlieatre Assodation, Erie Safety have a book entitled, "Facts and Fandcs of In­*vith his lovely wife Jane and sue bo>-s. Kenny also Coundl and was the Jr. Chamber's >fan of the dustrial Development" published in September. 
forwarded a dipping from the Chicago American Year in 1957. Bill did graduate work at Har\'ard Accepted as one of the leaders in his field, he has of HANK BERG, Avhose Ifarmion Military' Academy getting his MBA in '51. been appointed to the Advisory Board of the .Area f of Aurora basketball team staged a comeback under DAN O'DONNELL is a barrister in Trenton, Rede\'eIopment Administration. Tom and Barbara Coach Hank this past season. Kennv sees PLATT New Jersey, \%'here he and his wife, Jean, and their have four children, three boys and a girl. Tom must and THORNTON often at Cit>- Hall and reports 3 children make their home at IIO Hempstead Road. have received some real great basic business training that it looks like "they may be taking it over one Dan got his LLB from Georgetown. in the old Bookstore under Brothers Meinrad and of these da>-s." 

Conan. JACK WrrOUS is another of the successful 
JACK KINNEY checks in from the home of 

Churchill DowTis, where he is an .Auditor for G.E. FATHER BILL DONAHUE, C.S.C., is chairman 
practicing attome>-s in Chicago, and like Dunigan,  biology at Kings in 
at .Appliance Park. Jack and Peg have four girls. of the department College has six lovely children. Kenny reports JOHN 
"LEFTY" JACK ALLEN sends word from Philly Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
O'ROURKE is heading up the Purchasing Depart­where he is assistant regional medical director for Big MIKE MANZO is teaching and coaching in ment at Marshall Field & Co. in Chicago, and that the Penns>-Ivania Department of Health. Medford, Mass. He also operates the Mission Trophy ., 

ANGELO BERTELLI is operating a string of BILL ABOOD who recdved his DDS from Loyola, Co. in .Arlington. Mike and Marie have one boy package stores in Jersc>'. 

Chicago, is practidng in Jackson\'ilIc, Florida. and two girls. 
In beating the drums for a gala 20th reunion next HANK FRAILEY is operations manager. Power "BUD" GOTTA is with Massachusetts Mutual June, Kenny suggests the slogan ".All of '44 out in Tube Division of 'Westinghouse at Elmira, New Life Insurance Co. in Fort Wayne, Ind. T^vo boys *64,*' The slogan is hereby adopted. 

York. Hank and his %vife (Margaret Kirby, St. and three girls make Pat and Bud's family. 
Would appreciate word from other sections of Clary's, '46) have seven children, five girls and two JIM DUGAN is head of Propulsion Section, the country for our next column deadline, whicli hoys. He received his master's in Industrial Manage­NAS.A, Lewis Research Center in CIe\*eland. Jim is October 13, 1963. 

ment from MIT in '57. and Mar>* .Ann live in Lakewood with their t^vo •*" To repeat, '*AI1 of '44 out in '64." 
From the com belt, we hear from FRANK boy's and a daughter. FITZGIBBONS of Fitzgibbons and Fitzgibbons Another dentist checked in for this issue, BILL From the Alumni Office: Esther^'ille, Iowa. He is past president of the CASTLE of Lockport, New York. Bill received his "* 
NICHOLAS J. AMATO, assodate professor of Junior and "Senior" Chambers of Commerce and DDS from Marquette. Married 15 years. Bill and history, was elected president of the St. Bonaventure is Vice-President of Rotary and President of Jean have seven "little Castles." Chapter of the American Association of University Esther^'ille Junior College Foundation. Frank re­JOHNNY FLEAKA reports in from 577 Cohasset Professors. Nicholas has uritten for the American ceived his Juris Doctor from the State University Drive, Youngstoxvn, Ohio, ^vhere he is with U.S. Gatfaolic Historical RnicH-, and he tviU have artides of Iowa and ser\*ed as County .Attorney of Emmet Steel in the Pa>ToIl Department. John and Sophia in the New Catholic Escydopedta. He and his wife County. Evie, (Evelj-n Murray, ex '45 St. Mary's), have three children. and three crhildrcn live in Allegany. New- York. and Frank also have seven children—four girls Chem. Engineer grad, CHARLES WOLF, the 
Associate Professor of English (Purdue U.), JOHN and three boys. father of eight children is Coordinator, Refinery 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus. August-September. 1963 
Technology Div.. Research Department of Ethyl Corp. in Detroit. Charlie received his M.S.C.E. from Illinois Tech. Living in Pleasant Ridge. Mich., tvith Rosalie, Ins wife, and iinc family, Charlie is chairman of the Pleasant Ridge Recreation Com­mission. 
Dr. JOHN DOWLING is associate in orthopedic 5urgcry at Jefferson Medical College in Philly. John and Marilyn, with their four children live in Glad­w\-ne. Pa. 
It is expected by the time this column is read (at least we hope it is read) by our classmates, your class president, treasurer and secretary" will have met to start planning for our Reunion. We welcome your suggestions and JIM DONNELLY will welcome your dues contribution. Will be looking for^vard to seeing the Eastern gang at the Syracuse came. 
1946 
Peter P. Rlchinski 6 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Connecticut 
From the Alumni Oflice: 
JAMES J. COLEMAN, who has been with .•\tlas Chemical Industries. Inc. since 1957. has been named marketing manager, industrial chem­icals. Jim is a member of the Society of the Plastics Industry, Society of Plastics Engineers and the National Association of Corrosion Engineers. He. his wife Marguerite, and their five children (3 girls. 2 boys) live in Fairfax. Delaware. 
\\1LLI.\M BOLLAERT, professional scr\Icc repre­sentative in the Silvis (Illinois) area for Pfizer Laboratories, has been named Central region *'Man of the Quarter," for his outstanding sales achieve­ment and over-all performance during the first quarter of 1963. Bill and Katherine have sue children and live in Silvis. 
Major ROBERT JAMES HOWARD is now living at 10321 Joan Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio. 
THOMAS E. WARD, of Chicago, has been elected to the boards of the Northwestern Club of Chicago and the Chicago Headline Club. Tom is on the public relations stafT of U.S. Steel. 
1947 
Jack Miles 3218 Bcntlcy Lane South Bend, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTRA.\T CLEO MELCHER. 
THE HEAT'S ON 

In keeping with the season (during which this is written, that is), we're ser^'ing up nothing but red-hot news this issue. Of course, by the time it gets to you, we'll undoubtedly have had our first frost visitation of the season and these summer scoops will have the autumn droops. 
JUNE WEDDING The longtime rapport between ND and St. Mary's lives on, and Dr. FRANCIS KOB.4YASHI, currently a member of the University's engineering faculty, proved it June 8 by taking to himself a charming bride, Slonique Hai-Yen Nguyen, a business and economics senior attending St. Mary*s from South Viet Nam on a TO.M DOOLEY scholarship. REV. ROGER QUILTY, C.S.C., St. Mary's chaplain, oflictatcd at the Christ the King Church ceremony. Tlie bride's flower-embroidered white dress was designed by her mother and sister and brought from her homeland, and the matron of honor wore pink satin trousers and a long pink brocade coat, tlic native dress of Vict Nam. To the newlywcds: Long life, good health, much happiness! JURISPRUDENCE Whiting, Ind., City Judge BILL OBER.MILLER, who has reaped .nationwide publicity from his sensible handling of juvenile offenders before his court, did it again recently in a case involving the wanton shooting of a swan in a Wliiting city park. The 19-year-old marksman was ordered to pay for the cost of mounting the swan for display by the Lake County conservation department as a reminder that the birds are protected by law. A fine of $100 and a 60-day jail sentence were sus­pended on condition the tccn-agcr work a month of Saturdays cleaning up Whiting's Lake Michigan beach. Two associates were directed to join the county Fish and Game society and contribute 325 
EDMUND V. MARSHALL, '46. NASA's Man Behind the Man on the Moon 
Edmund V. Marshall has been named a 

vice-president of United Aircraft's Hamilton 
Standard division, Windsor Locks, Connecti­
cut, where he will head the company's Space 
& Life Systems department in cooperation 
with the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration. 
Among the programs which Ed will 

manage are the space suits and portable 
life support back packs for Project Apollo, 
the American lunar program; the environ­
mental control system for the vehicle which 
will land on the moon's surface; and several 
bioscientific programs being prepared for 
N.AS.Vs space projects. 
Ed came to Hamilton Standard in May from the Chance Vought Corporation, where he had worked for 15 years. During that time he was program manager, space flight vehicles; program manager, manned space systems; and chief of advanced aircraft design. He holds a bachelor of science degree in aeronautical engineering from Notre Dame's College of Engineering and a master's degree from Purdue University. He is a member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and .Astronautics, the Amer­ican Astronautical Society, and other pro­fessional organizations. 
Ed was bom in 1926 in Batavia, New York. He is married to the former Dorothy Waldeck and the father of four sons: David, 12; John, 10: Gregory, 9; and Peter, 6. The family will live in West Hartford, Connecticut. 
each to the organization. And the encouraging thing is Bill's approacli is getting results. 
GLE.-\.N'IXGS . . . F.\THER LA\VREN*CE LeVASSEUR, C.S.C., has been appointed Superior of the Holy Cross Fathers District of Chile in Santiago. Father, who has been Superior of St. Joseph Hall on the campus, will also be Rector of Holy Cross Seminary in Santiago. F.ATHER ED RUETZ spent the summer as chap-Iain at the Fort AVayne-South Bend diocesan CVO 
camp at Syracuse. Ind. The newly ordained priest, a graduate of Catholic University and a fonner Army MP, was spiritual director for a total of 1,710 boys and girls during the eight-week session. 
Our treasurer. JOE SHARP, has been elected president of the Indiana Assn. of CPA's; he's a partner in the South Bend accounting firm of Willett & Wharton. By the way, his latest audit of our class treasury shows it's still at $33. (We're nothing If not consistent.) It draws no interest, so why not pump It up a bit? 
JOE GASPARELLA, a partner in a Pittsburgh architectural firm who teaches an architectural design course at Carnegie Tech, has assumed the part-time post of head coach of the once-mighty football team at the school. 
Dr. BILL MADDEN, an associate professor ol English at Indiana as well as co-editor and a founder of Victorian Studies, returned to the campus recently to lecture on '^Matthew .Arnold: The Esthetic Temperament." Married and the father of five daughters and a son. Bill taught at Fordham 1930-52 and secured his Ph.D. in 1953 during his last of three years at Michigan. 
HAL WALTERS has been transferred by the Agricultural Extension service from Mmneapolls to Mt. Prospect, HI. 
Dr. WALT LABERGE, scientist first class, has left California In favor of Houston, Texas. 
From the broad plains of Iowa to the teeming city of Chicago . . . that's the move recently ac­complbhed by JOE BERGTHOLD. .And GENE HULL has arrived in the same metropolis from "Bahston." 
PAT McCULLOUGH, erstwhile Cleveland Yankee, has settled way down "souf" in .Atlanta. 
JOHN BOYLAN, pretty far north as it was m Mankato, Minn., took the St. Lawrence route and is currently residing In Quebec's Village of St. Foy. 
VENTURA GONZALEZ, formerly of Dallas, now gets his mail ^da an Air Force address through an .\PO slot In New York. 
A D.AY IX DALEY-TOWN During a recent baseball junket to Chicago with FRED CRO^VE '49 and CHUCK ROEMER '54, we were privileged to dine at Club Boyar, owned by RCA exec PAUL PEOHL '22. There we chatted with JOE ARCHIBALD '49, who's doing advertising and promotion for Jefferson Electric. Joe who fought at 128 in the Bengal Bouts, has moved up a few divisions to 201. His brother, our classmate BILL .ARCHIBALD, lives In nearby Park Ridge with his wife and five children (oldest 15) and Is credited with Introducing fresh promotion and display techniques as head of sales to 27 retail outlets of the Ed^-ard Hynes Lumber Co. To cap the evening, we \'isited a bit with Stanley, father of DICK MUSIAL '62, then paid a call on FBI agent BILL (ZIP) ROE.MER '48 and his ^vlfe and two boys in South Holland, III . 
EN FIN 

This is YOUR class column: If you contribute to it, it thrives; if you do not. It atrophies. Let us hear from you. 
1948 
John Dcfant George A. Pflaum, Publisher, Inc. 38 West Fifth Street Dayton 2, Ohio 
REUNION" REGISTRANTS 

JOHN ABENS, PAUL ADERMAN, JACK AMBERG, BURT AFKER, ED AYLWARD, E. FRANK BAILEY, WILLIA M BONWICH. THONUS BROGAN, EARL BUSHMAN, LAW­RENCE E. CARR, PAUL CARTIVRIGHT, JACK CASSIDY, THOMAS CLIFFORD, JACK COONEY, JIM CORCORAN, JAMES COSTA, LEO J. COS­TELLO, ZYGMONT PIERR E CZAROBSKI. EUGENE DEAN, JOHN DiGANN, RANK DiGIROLAMO, JAMES DONOGHUE, JOHN T. DOYLE, RUSSELL J. FARRELL, JAMES L. FERSTEL, JOE FLOOD, LOUIS A. GASPER, ROBERT W. HARTMANN, GERARD HEKKER. THOMAS HIGGINS, BARTON B. JOHNSON. GEORGE J. KEENAN, NEIL KELLY, DON KELSEY, GEORGE A. KENNARD, JOSEPH KENNEDY, BEN KOEBEL, LEARY KREISSL, JOHN F. LAUGHLIN, ALBERT J. LaMERE, JA!hIES LED^VITH, THOMAS W. LOOK, JO­SEPH C. LYNCH, JOHN McCORMICK, SHAUN McDERMOTT, JAMES F. MAHONEY, TOM MANUSZ.\K, ROBERT W .MORAN, ROBERT MURPHY, ROBERT NIN'NEMAN, JOSEPH B. 
Xotre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 47 
OTOOLE, JOHN* PATTERSON, JOSEPH F. QUILL, EDWARD RECKER, JOHN REGAN, ROBERT ROLUING, FRANK ROMEO. FRANCIS 
L. RYAN, JERRY SARB, a ROBERT "BOB" SATTI, EVERHART SCHLECK, HENRV LEE SHIPP, FRANK J. SIERAWSKI, LOUIS L. SLNG­ER, DICK STACK, JLM STYERS, AHLLIAM SUMMERS, HAL TEHAN, DAVID M. THORN­TON, GEORGE TOBIN, LAWRENCE TURNER, GASPER URBAN, ALBERT WARD, DAVID WARNER, JOHN R. \\-ELCH, DR. WILLIA-M WELCH, JOE UlLCOX. DALE WINNIE, LARRY WOODS, JOHN WRIGHT. 
From the .Alumni Office: 

Et-N.D. gri'ddcr \TNCE SCOTT, of die Hamll­^' ton Tigcr-Cats, for 14 years one of Canadian pro , football's outstanding guards, is retiring, "I'm 
retiring, I'm finished, I'm through. I'm getting out while I've still got all my marbles, some ph>-sical rcscr\-e and the affection of the fans," \^nce said, and concluded, ".-Ml good things must end and this is the time." Previous to joining Hamilton, he plaved two vcars with the Buffalo Bills. 
LANOiSTER SMITH, '50. wrote to inform us about his fcllou- Texan, J.AMES HOSTY. Jim is with the F.B.I. Security Squad, haring spent 10 years in Dallas, He was elected Grand Knight Council Number 799. the largest Knights of Columbus in Texas. He is president of the St. Pius Holy Name Society and chairman of the Manpower Committee of Finance which built the second largest school in the Dallas-Ft. Worth diocese. Finally, Jim's life at home is Just as busy 

r — he and his wife have 714 children. The second annual St. Thomas More Award for 
, distinguished legal service has been awarded to WILLIAM B. B.ALL, general counsel for the Penn­sylvania Catholic Welfare Committee. The award was presented by Catholic lawyers as part of their annual Red Mass. Bill is a member of the bars of New York. Pennsylvania and the U.S. Supreme Court, with his office in Harrisburg. He has authored numerous church-state relations and con­stitutional lax** problems, and was the principal author of the National Catholic Welfare Con­ference's study, "The Constitutionality of the Inclusion of Church-Related Schools in Federal Aid to Education." 
JOHN H. GL.AVLV has been elected assistant vice-president of new product planning and market research at the Xerox Corporation. He has di­

•' reeled this branch since 1957 when he was named assistant to the president. 
News of J. K. KERVER who had an article in the "Materials Protection" magazine. A mem­ber of llic production research division of Humble Oil and Refining Co., Houston, he has been engaged in oil production rcsearcli for the last 13 years. He holds patents in the fields of core analysis, rcser\-oir engineering, fluid flou-, electric logging, sand consolidation and corrosion. His memberships include: NACE, .AIME, ACS and API. 
SAMUEL V. SMITH xvas promoted to professor of retailing in the School of Business and Public Administration at Washington L'niversiiy­
1949 
Jolm Walker Wayne, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRANT JOHN R. P.ANELLL 
From the Alumni Office: Dr. DANIEL -A. DOOLEY, presently associated with -Aerospace Corp. in El Segundo, has been elected a corporate vice-president, and will be­come general manager of the engineering dirision; he win be moving to the San Bemadino area soon. Dan's affiliations include the -American In­stitute of .Aeronautics and .Astronautics, the Ameri­can Ordnance Association and Sigma Xi. He and his wife have three cliildren. J-AMES J. BYRNE has been promoted to di­i-ision ricc-prcsidcnt of the newly combined Warner Slimwear Lingerie Division of the Warner Brothers Company. He has been tvlth Warner since 1949. He, his wife and child reside on Marsh Rd., Easton, Connecticut. GENE SCHAFFE R has been appointed promo­tion manager of the "Nexv York Times ^Vestern Edition," Preriously, Gene managed promotion for the Riverside (Calif.) *'Press Enterprise." the Los Angeles "Mirror" and the Houston "Chronicle." He is vice-president of the Western Region of the National Nexvspapcr Promotion .Assn. 
May 15. 1963: FRANK E. SULLIVAN, South Bend insurance man, was nominated to the execu­tive committee of the Million Dollar Round Tabic of the National .Assn. of Life Underwriters. (Round Table members have sold at least one million dol­lars of new life insurance each year; Frank has qualified 8 times.) He was the first Hoosicr to be nominated to the committee. May 23. 1963: Frank 
E. Sulli\-an received the annual "Hoosier Life Unden*Titer" award based on achievement in the insurance business and civic services. June 16, 1963: Frank E. Sullivan was elected a member of the 19&i executive committee — the first Hoosicr and one of the youngest life underwriters to be elected to the five-man committee. 
Bringing with him much cxprricnce. DICK FRIEND has been added to the staff of Campion Jesuit high school in Prairie du Cliicn. Wis­consin. Campion Intramural Leagues athletics is a comprehensive program (involving all students) of scheduled football, basketball and Softball six days a week in season. Smaller groups are engaged in hockey, uTestling. weights, swimming, diving and water polo. We imagine Dick will be going on a 50-mile hike soon. 
Dr. DONALD G. I\TY has been appointed principal of New College in the Umvcrsitj' of Toronto. Don, first and foremost a professor, is best knoivn for the informal television .programs in which he and Professor Patterson Hume ex­plain aspects of modem physics. He is also co­author of a popular Canadian high school physics textbook. An enthusiastic tennis player and some­time home craftsman, he is married and has three children. 
P.ATRICK J. KENNY, monogram winner in track, was ordained a priest in the Society of Jesus on June 15, 1963, at Gonzaga University, Spokane, Washington. Father said his first solemn high Mass in his home city of Seattle on June 23. 
KENNETH C. KENNARD has been awarded a 1963-64 Alfred P. Sloan Fellowship in executive development at M.I.T. Tlic Sloan Fellows in their 30's, are outstanding young business executives 
(U.S. and abroad) — quite an honor for Ken. He will be studying in Cambridge for 12 months. 
EUGENE F. MATHEWS has been named director of public relations for Denver Chicago Trucking, Co. Before moving to Denver with his wife and their SK cliildren, Gene lived in Saginaw, Mich., where he held memberships in traffic clubs in Saginaw, Chicago and New York and in the Saginaw County and State of Michigan bar asso­ciations. He is director of the Sales Council of the -American Trucking .Assn., past president of the Saginaw Junior Chamber of Commerce, and u-as co-founder of Northeast Michigan Chapter 179 of Delta Nu Alpha Transportation fraternity. 
In the spirit of the ecumenical movement, LEOX.ARD F. 2ALLER, president of Electronic Products and Equipment, Cleveland, has helped to launch a dialogue program, the Leunis Sodality, in order to establish greater understanding between Catholics, Protestants and Jews. "The purpose of the meetings is to arrive at better understanding," and Len further commented, "There is no ques­tion that the dialogues lia%'c had a profound efTect on all who have participated in them. The under­standing, good will and just plain love of neighbor on all sides have been vcr>- impressive." A relatively young club, 2 years old, the Leunis Professional Sodality won first place in the caiegor>' for indi­

vidual organizations by the National Council of Catholic Men. 
1950 
Richaid F. Hahn 47 Emerson Rd. Glen Rock, New Jersey 
REU.\TON REGISTR.ANT JOHN HERR. 

From the -Alumni Office: Tlic Stale Unlversltv of Iowa awarded a master of arts degree to ARTHUR PAUL OWENS. 
ROBERT J. DRUM.MOND assumed the posi­tion of deputy regional director of the Chicago Regional Office- Bob began his work \rith the Com­mission In the New York region in 1952­
J-AMES J. CROWE was appointed Chicago re­gional manager of the Detroit Diesel Engine Di­vision of General Motors. 
R.ALPH WRIGHT, advertising executive, hcad> The Leunis Sodality of Cleveland which received a first in the awards given by the National Council of Catholic Men. The Sodality embarked on a dialogue project two years ago for greater Inlcr­rcligtous understanding. .Also Involved in the proj­ect is ROBERT STOCK who is on the staff of the "Catholic Universe Bulletin." 
1951 
Robert Klingcnbeigcr 3405 Thames Dr. Ft. Wa>-ne, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: JOSEPH E. ST.ASCH is now manager of the San Bernardino office for Autonetlcs, a dirislon of North .American Ariation, Inc. Joe was previously associated with General Electric, Spcrr>' Gyroscope, Western Electric and MinneapolIs-Honcv-wcll Co. He and his wife have tivo children. The family lives at 129 Belmont Court, Redlands, California. LEE FRANCIS BROU?^ received his Doctor of Philosophy (Chemical Engineering) degree in absentia from the University of Delaware. 
1952 
Harry L. Buch 600 Board of Trade BIdg. Wheeling, W. Va. 
From the Alumni Office: Word from JAMES K. SHIAUZU who is leaving Japan on a job assignment in Sydney, Australia. His new address is in care of Encyclopaedia Britannlca of Australia, Ltd., 300 Castlereagh Street. Jim %rill be located there for several months. ROBERT J. SECHOWSKI has been elected presi­dent of Data Computing Ser\'iccs, Inc.,, of South Bend. Bob has been with Morgan Drive-Awax-, Inc.. Elkhart. RALPH M. RICHARD, \vho will be leaving the Engineering School here at N.D., has been appointed 
FLINT — UND Night guest Fr. John E. Walsh, University v.-p. for public relations, sat in on Man-of-the-Year presentation to Osmond KcUy (left) by Ivan L. Wiles and received a $1,000 check for the Foundation from Club Prcddcnt Walt NagcL 
4B Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 
WICHITA—^Most of the guests were assembled for these two picttires of the UND Night dinner April 24 in the Prairie Club atop the KFH building in downtown Wichita: (seated, l.-r.) Mrs. Harold Greenleaf, Mrs. Nestor R. Weigand, Sr.; Mrs. Wm. P. r^n^law^ Jr.; Mrs. G.M. Dunne, Rev. J. David Max, Mrs. Ed McKenna, Mrs. W.J. Biermann, Mrs. Lawrence Weigand, Mrs. George Schwaiz, Bemice Mitchell and Mrs. McKenna; (standing, l.-r.) Nestor R. Weigand, Jr., social chairman; Nestor R. Weigand, Sr.; Jdtm LaugUin, Ahmmi Office; G.M. Dunne; Dr. Wm. P. Gallahan, Jr., Kansas Fotmdation governor; J.L, Weigand, past president; Thaddcus J. McDonald, vice-president; Paul Quinn; Wm. T. DavJtt, secretary, treasurer; Dr. B.N. Lies; Dr. W. J. Biermann; Lawrence Wignand; Geo. A. 
Schwartz, Club president; Theodore P. Jochems; Albert J. Gebert; Ed McKenna; and Pete 
associate professor in civil engineering and engi­
neering mechanics at the University of Arizona. 
CY DeVLIEGHER will be the new athletic di­

rector of St. Joseph's High School, South Bend, 
Indiana. He will be the first la>-man to hold the 
position. Cy was in the Army from I957-I959 and 
received his Master's Degree from N.D. In August, 
1962, 
TOBIAS BARRY is one who can easily be called 
a fighting Irishman. Toby, after winning a long 
hard battle, is 40th District State Representative of 
Illinois. (He lost in his first trv* and was handed 
a libel suit after his election.) Toby has not looked 
for fights in his career—they just seem to find him. 
And, he fights them all the way down the line. He 
is currently interested in attaining social security 
for state employees, more complete information 
coverage on applications for mental health and a 
bill he entitles "Wrongful Death," for better cover­
age if a member of a family is killed in an accident. 
His own practice, which he launched in 1958, has 
specialized in suits against insurance companies. 
1953 
David A. McEIvain 2328 Alexander Terr. Homcwood, Illmois 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

E. E. AHLERING, JACK ALESSANDRINI, JOHN ALFES, JOE ANGEL, JIM APPLEGATE, DAVID AUGSBURGER, GEORG E BAILEY, JOHN BAKER, RAYMOND BAYLESS, DONALD BERGMAN, ROBERT L. BERNER, JR., JIM BLACKBURN, ROBERT A. BOEHMER, LOUIS BOURJAILY, JAMES BRITT, TERRY BRITT, DAVID BROUGHTON, JOSEPH BUCKHEIT, EDWARD BUCZKIEWICZ, W. LEO CAHALAN, ADOLFO CALERO, DON CARBONE, RICHARD CASPER, JOHN B. CLARK, THOMAS COLLINS, EL\10 COMO, EDWARD CONDON, JOHN E. CONWAY, DAVID COSTIG,\N, BRYAN COUGH­LIN, ED CULKOWSKI, FREDERICK DAHL, RICHARD DALEY, ROBERT DEAK, EDWARD DcBOER, WILLIAM DcCRICK, JOE DELISI, JOE DESAUTELS, JOHN DILENSCHNEIDER, RAYMOND DITTRICH, LEO DOHN, BRUCE DOLD, ROBERT J. DONOGHUE, DON DOR­INI, MICHAEL L. DOYLE, WILLIAM DUNHAM, HARRY DURKIN, JOHN DWYER, WILLIAM J. DYER, ROBERT DYER, THOMAS ECKLAND, JIM EHINGER, ALBERT EILERS, JACK END­ERS, JOHN FAGAN, CHRIS FALKENSTEIN, GENE FANNING, GEORGE T. FARRELL, JOHN FEERCK, THONL\S FELDPAUSCH, ROBERT G. FINNEY, ROBERT W. FISCHER, JOHN FISH, 
JOHN FrrZGERALD, JAMES FLOOD, DAVID FL\-NN, JAMES FOLEY, DAVID W. FOX, VICTOR GEORGE, FRANCIS GERLITS, JAMES GIBBONS, ROBERT D. GLEASON, EDWARD GREASON, MICHAEL GROZIER, JERRY H<\.M­MES, DANIEL HARDIN, RICHARD HARVEY, JOHN HASTINGS, HUGH A. HENRY, JR., J.\MES HERR, R. P. HERRMANN, BERNARD HESTER, RICH.4RD HODGES, HERMAN HOFF­M.A.V, JOHN W. HORAN, JAMES B. HUTCH­INSON, D.WIEL J.\MES, .MARCUS J. JEN­NINGS, CHARLES JOLIE, ROBERT .JOYCE, GERARD KEELEY, JOHN E. KEELEY, JEROME 
W. KELLY, ROBERT J. KELLY, ^VILLIAM R. KELLY, JA.MES R. KEOGH, TI.M RETT, JAMES 
J. KLINK, RICHARD KLUMB, LEWIS E. KRAFT, JOHN LaBAR, WILLIAM LAMMERS, ROBERT E. LEE, DON LEMERSAL, LEONARD LEROSE, WILLIAM LESSO, EUGENE LIT­TLE, JAMES LONEY, JERRY V. McCABE, ED MCCARTHY, JOH N MCCOR-MICK, GEORGE .McCOURT, BERNARD MCDER.MOTT, DAVID .McELVAIN, JOE McINERNEY, ROBERT MCKENNA , -MIKE McKINSTR.*, CHARLES Mc-MAHON, JOE McMANUS, LAWRENCE P. Mo. NALLY, THOMAS McNAMARA, JOHN E. M.*D. DEN, ED MANIER, JOHN .MANK, DANIEL MARSALEK, D.\VE MARTIN, JOHN C. MASON, HANK .MASSMAN, BILL .MAUS, TO.M .MEANEY, BORIS MEHOFF, FATHER LEON MERTEN­SOTTO, JOHN J. .MILLIG.4N, BOB MITCHELL, PAT MONTROY, LUKE J. MOORE, GERALD MORGAN, TOM -MORSEH, D.ANIEL MURPHY, WALT MURPHY, JAMES J. NAGY, WALLACE NEYERLIN, PETER NINNEMAN, JOSEPH A. NOTO, THO.MAS NOURIE, JAMES P. O'BRIEN, JAMES T. O'BRIEN, FR.ANK O'CONNOR, JERO.ME O'CO.VNOR, JOHN J. O'CONNOR, DAVID O'LEARY, JOSEPH T. O'NEILL, NEIL O'REGAN, JOHN J. OTOOLE, JOE L. PAGLIARL JAMES B. PATTERSON, JAMES PFEIFFER, JOHN PECK, JAMES PFOHL, JOHN PORT.A, EDW.\RD J. POWELL, LARRY PRID­.MORE, BERT PROBST, FRED PUGLIANO, .ARTHUR PULTE, TO.M REEDY, JAMES A. REILY, CHARLES ROEMER, JAMES ROGERS, DONALD K. ROSS, PAUL RUPP, JOHN J. 
SCHMIDT, RICHARD SCHREIT.MUELLER, SYL SCHULTE, JOHN SELLICK, HARRY SH.AY, JOHN W. SHAY, HAROLD SHE,VHEN, ROBERT 
A. SHONK, JA.MES I. SMITH, III, PATRICK SMITH, RAY SMITH, HARRY D. SNYDER, JOSEPH STADLER, STAN STASCH, CHARLES STIM.MING, JOHN W. STOEPLER, WILLIAM 
D. STUHLDREHER, GENE SULLIV.AN, FRED TADROWSKI, WILLI.AM TEOLI, J.A.MES E. THULIS, GEORGE TRESCH, ROBERT TRIP­E.NY, R.AY TROMPETER, RICHARD TROSSET, MICH.AEL TRUPPA, WILLIAM UNGER, GER­ARD voir , RICRARD WAGNER, ROBERT W.AGNER, TOM WALSH, JI.M WELCH, JOHN WOEPPEL, DICK WOLFGRAM, LEONARD A. WOLNIAK, WILLIA.M WUTCHER, LESTER ZACZEK, ROGER ZOELLNER, CLAUDE ZUBA. 
From ihe Alunrni Office: D.AVID HAYES was selected to participate in tile Forma Viva in Yugoslavia during tlie summer as a representative of U.S.A. The Forma \lva is an international competition of sculptures held annually with the idea of "spreading understanding and cooperation between people and artists to pro­mote mutual knowledge and understanding among nations." The countries participating include Eng­land, Japan, Belgium, France, Greece, Poland, Italy, Holland, Israel and Yugoslavia. Dave will create a piece in marble and leave the w*ork in a large open-air sculpture court. In return, he will be given accommodations and a grant. 
LOUIS .A. ROSSE and his wife Marv-, whom he married on June 2, 1962, were blessed with a baby 
 Francken. 
boy, L. Gregory, ott March 12, 1963. Their new 
address is: Rt. 3, Box 87, Anchorage, Ky. 
DONALD K. DORINI, president of tlie Notit: 
Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale, has been promoted 
to district manager of the Miami branch office of 
Acme Industries, Inc. Don takes over his new re­
sponsibilities following nearly two years as a sales 
engineer with the company. 
Dr. ALFRED W. MARKS has been appointed director of medical education at Mercy Hospital, RockWlle Centre, New York. AI received his medical degree from Stritch School of Medicine and spent a rotating internship and three years of resident training in internal medicine before beginning; private practice. 
1954 
Milton J. Beaudxne 76 East Court Dr. Decatur, Illinois 
REUNIOX REGISTRANT RICHARD PILGER. 

I ordered my Wisconsin-Notre Dame football tickets today. How about you? Our Class will hold its Third Annual Reunion Party immediately after the game. See you there. Talking about Reunions, in less than a year we'll have our 10-Year Reunion in June. I need not mention this to those of you who made it to our 5-Year Reunion because after such a wonderful time then, youVe surely planning on the upcoming Reunion. For those (800 or so) unfortunates who missed the 5-Year blast please try citra hard for June '6i. Ask anyone! It's Great. *'Nuff said." 
Had lunch last week at JOHN LATTNER's Steak House in Chicago. The Lattners had their 4th child on April 15, a boy, Timothy Aquinas Lattner—that makes 2 and 2. Later I talked with J.ACK PITTAS, attorney with Universal Oil Products. Jack informed that JOHN GROSS-PlETSCH has been promoted to new products manager with Pure Oil Co. 
I'm sure glad I saved PAUL KELLY'S letter for this issue. (It was in time for the last issue.) It's the only letter I have. Stealing again—^'*This Article Depends—Help!—Upon Its Friends—Help!" From "Mr. Tuxedo" Paul Kelly: BOB FROLICKER has a vcr>' good position with W.L.\V., a Ctnunattx radio station (what's a radio?}. DICK CASTEL­LINI must really be exhausted. Besides holding down a full-time job and being a full-time father (he and his charming wife Madeline have 5 children), he has earned his M.B.A. and LL.B. What's next? Huh? BOB ^VRIGHT (and Jane have two) Is still mth Kroger; BILL BURKE is pushing securities for Kferrlll, Lynch, etc, and B.ARRY S.AVAGE is in advertising with his father. Verv few will be surprised to hear the JIM "DUKE," "DIRTY DOZENS" DORMENT has yet to meet the "perfect" girl. DICK TIERNEY was in Cincy for Paul Kelly's wedding. Dick is working for BIyth & Co. In New York. Dick's twin, RAY TIERNEY is now a lawyer in Jersey. P.\UL FORS^LAN is in the printing business with hh dad. GEORGE O'CONNELL Is still with BeU Telephone in N.Y'.C-, and while In Cincy recently, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, AugustSepUmher, 1963 49 
reported the following to Pauly Kelly. HERB 

AMMEK-MULLE R is flying helicopters around 
X.Y.C. Dr. H.\L RIELLY is practicing on Staten Island (Hi Hal!). JI.M "SKIXXY" BRO«"XE (with an E) is a tax law>-er and so is his wife. NEAL THOMPSOK got a mention here but between a {cw beers, etc., we can't recall "What" about him, so the best wc can do Is mention him again—• XE.1L THO.\IPSOX! (Drop me a postcard .N'eal.) GEORGE McDOXOUGH is teaching English in a Catholic high school in (or around) X.Y.C. \L\RK TREMBL^Y is teaching school in (or around) Boston. 
JIM "SL.\TS" TERRY is a sales manager for a companv in Chicago. *'T.J." B.ALDWIX* is selling insurance as is "E.ASY ED" HOG.AX. BILL SUL­LIV.\X runs a couple of cmplo\-mcnt acencics in Chicago (which ones Bill?). P.\UL KRAUS is a lau-yer in Toledo where TOM McHUGH is the "'toast of. the town*' having been selected "Coach of the Year" in Ohio and having had his team rated X'o. 1 in Ohio and X*o. 2 among the high school football teams in the nation. FRED PAXTOX is still in Paducah, Kentucky. DICK COLLOTOX is teaching in California. SAM TRLAXO is back in l\'est Va. where he referees an occasional basketball game in the "Enright" manner. JOHX REEDY is a lawyer in Cleveland where ".ACE" McL-VUGHLIX is with Kroger. JOE BERTRAXD is big in politics in Chicago. Paul would like to hear from JOHX "RED" BOLAND, last heard from Houston, Tctas. (I'd like to hear from anyone.) .And lastly, a quote from Paul Kelly, "Good Luck Hughie." A senti­ment I'm sure we're all in agreement on. I'm sure Mr. DeVore will be tr>'ing very hard to make our Reunion Party a complete success with a win over Wisconsin, (Thanks for the long letter, Paul!) 
Saw Sheila and NED SEIM last month. Xed is with "Crestline" (superior windows) in Wausau. Wisconsin. Dr. CARL HAR.MO.X CUXDERSO.V has moved from West Haven, Conn., to Fort Bragg, X.C, and JESSE JOLLY has left Fort Wa^•ne. Ind.. for Jackson, Michigan. JI-M "MOT0R0L.V' "THE BERN" BERNHART has made it back to Chi. (2223 ForcstnVw, Ei-anslon, III.). JOSE APEL­L.ANIZ has left Chicago for Midland, Michigan, and DICK DONNELLY has moved from Big D. to Costa Mesa, California. Have a safe, sane Labor Day and may I be one of the verv- first to wish you a AfcrtA- Christmas. 
From the .Alumni Office: Captain CHARLES F. SPICK.A, a United Slates .Air Force instructor pilot, has received a Master of -Arts degree in social science from Middle Tennessee State College at Murfreesboro. WLLI.A.M DENNIS CONW.AY was awarded his M.S. from the State University of Iowa, 
.Mrs. FRANK J. LEUIS, ivhose husband received his LLD in 1954 (she is LLD '62), presented a one million dollar clieck to the University for con­struction of a residence for teadiing nuns. This will permit the nuns to attend classes the year around. 
1955 
Paul Fullmer 
7344 K Ridge Blvd. 
Chicago 45, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRAXTS C\'RIL LINDE.\LANX, JAMES MALOOLY. 

First of all, I ^vould like to speak for the entire Class in extending our best wishes to REV. JAMES 
M. SHERER, C^.C. who was ordained in Sacred Heart Church on June 13th. Father Jim, my old Journalism buddy %vho was one of the Blue Circle leaders on campus during our stint under the Golden Dome, said his firet solemn Mass June 16th at St. Aloj-sius Church in his home town of Bowling Green, Ohio. I'll be looking forward to hearing from the new member of the Congregation of Holy Cross as he starts his priestly vocation. 
I also understand that congratulations are in order lor another Joumalism classmate, DICK ALAX­NIOX, who finally has dedded to take the long \*-alk up the aisle. Dick has been a mighty busy guy in the last few years working at the Catholic Press -Association during the day and helping with a youth program • m a Brooklyn slum neighborhood another 20-40 hours each week. Here's how Dick puts it: 
"I've been tied up, almost since its inception three years ago, with a novel approach toward fighting juvenile dclinquenc>-. The program, started by a parish priest, recently got itself a $50,000 per year grant from Uncle Sam, and since I've been around 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 
WILLIAM C. CLEMENTS, '55 Newspaper Feller Wins the Heller 

A June testimonial luncheon at Ohio State University, an award certificate, and his name on a bronze tablet in the halls of the OSU journalism school were among the honors accorded to Bill Clements as the 
so long, my duties and obligations seem to be multi­pl>-tng rather than diminishing, I'm currently coach­ing a baseball team (14-18 year olds), a soflball team (17 to 24 years old), moderating two 'social clubs', editing a teen-age neighborhood newspaper, counselling several delinquents, and directing and coordinating tlie activities of about 20 adult volun­teers who come irom outside the neighborhood." 
Received a delightful letter from HENRY JOHN P.ATRICK (!) KEARNS' wife, Joann, who filled mc in on quite a few of the California clan. In­cidentally, you can reach Pat and Joann at 12033 
S. Dolan, Downey, Calif. TTiey have three daughters. Pat recently was elected to the board of directors of the Downey Park and Recreation District. He's still earning his daily bread as an engineer with North .American Aviation. 
Joann included the following news. DICK GRONER and his bride, Joann, are living at 3U Vista Place, Jefferson City, Mo., after enjoying a wedding trip to the Seattle Fair. She also reports that BERNIE TRACEY, who is with IBM in New York, has deserted the bachelor's ranks, .'\nother recent groom is ED PREIN, who married the former Barbara Schubmchl. 
One happy bacliclor, BILL HEINRICH, is in Australia laying pipe for Bctchel Corp. J.-ICK KENNEDY, who is the proud papa of a boy and girl, now resides in Belmont, Mass. DICK DONA­HUE and his wife. Sheila, are living in I^fayette, Ind., where he's a Iaw>-er. J.ACK NEMETZ, who's it-iih Minnesota Mining, has at least three little tax exemptions at last count. He and his wife, Mary Ellen, live at 1866 E. Nebraska Ave,, St. Paul Tlianks vcr\* mucli, Mrs. Keams, and I hope the rest of you wives arc inspired to duplicate her performance. 
JOHN AQUILLA, ED ARCY, GERRY BART­NETT, JOHN BATTALORA, CHARLIE CALLE­\VAERT, ARCHIE CAMPBELL, STEVE DEE, ART DEICHMANN, FRANCISCO FERNANDES, BILL FEURY, AL GANTHER, DICK GAUTHIER, KEN HALL, JOHN HA.MILTON, JOHN JOSEPH, ED JOST, LEO KEENAN, ED KELLY, JAY L.AUE and DE.\NY LAUGHLIN haven't been heard from for much too long. 
MARTY CULHANE has been elected wee-president of the Rogers Park Savings and Loan Association on the north side of Chicago, If you 
1963 

first winner since 1958 of the Frank M. Heller Memorial .^ward. 
Bill, a staff writer for the Dayton, O., Daily News, was given the award for out­standing reporting of public a/fairs. The judges (in this case, the journalism faculty of Indiana University) honored the young writer for a series of stories last fall telling of the fight spearheaded by a plumber for equal recognition of Negro workers. 
The series has already resulted in three important breakthroughs: the Ohio Civil Rights Commission has the case under in­vestigation with findings to be released shortly; the Dayton Board of Plumbing Ex­aminers has increased its membership from five to seven: and two Negroes have been accepted for training as apprentices begin­ning ne.xt fall, one already working as a plumber. 
Bill's award was established by OSU alumni in honor of the late Frank Heller, a highly revered writer for the Scripps-Howard newspaper chain who died in 1950 at the age of 80. 
Bill came to the Daily News in 1961 from the Logansport, Ind., Pharos-Tribune. Previously he had been a welfare worker in New York and a researcher for the Democratic National Committee. He re­inforced his Notre Dame degree with gradu­ate work at Columbia University. His father is Walter L. Clements, South Bend Iaw\'er­newspaperman-secretary of the Class of 1914. Brother Walter, Jr., '52, is a writer and teacher, currently practicing law in Chicago. 
save enough loot at Martyrs institution, you Windy City guys can go down to sec PAT SHEEH.AN, who is the sharpest salesman at HoIIingshead Olds­mobile. Incidentally, Martv, DICK BURKE, JIM MALOOLY and DICK BEE.M.AN helped get a record turnout from our Class for UND Night in Chicago. 
Received a couple of birth announcements recently. JOHN CORBETT O'MEARA passed out dgars for the first time to welcome a daughter, Meghan .Appel. JOE CONNOLLY has a new heir, Timothy Michael. 
DEL CHESKY, uho is AMF*s man-on-the-go, has 
switched his base of operations from Puerto Rico to 
Mexico City. That's a pretty nice territory', fellow. 
PAUL HARTM.AN, who was working with missiles 
at the White Sands Range in New Mexico, now is 
with the Ciril Engineer Corps at the U. S. Naval 
Radio Station Cutler in East Machias, Maine. 
Several 'j5ers have packed their bags and headed toward the setting sun. NORM DONNELLY went all the way across the country- from Newark to beautiful Carmel, Calif., where you can reach him at P. O. Bo-c 5914, Flander Way. JIM CLARK left Scotia, N.Y., for my area. His new address is 1002 Longmeadow Drive, Glenview, 111. Big D.AN BURKE finally managed to leave his beloved New Jersey* for Ohio (3341 SyK-anhurst Road, Cleveland Heights). 
The scale was pretty mudi balanced when JERRY ROE left SUnson Beach, Calif., for 7304 Glen .Arbor Road, Louisville, and JOHN CONNOLLY moi-cd from Mundelein, III., to 100 Heddon Terrace, North Arlington, N,J. 
.A few also have invaded the deep South. JOE SMITH left the land of sky blue waters in Michigan for Galveston, Texas (308 Church St.) . . . JIM TWOHY took a little cross-country- trip from California to Little Rock, Ark. (2105 West 2nd St.) .. . and CHARLIE L.AIRD headed south from New York for Tullahoma, Tenn. (616 Glendale PI.). 
The moving companies have been doing well on the East Coast thanks to FRED GALIONE, who moved from .Arlington, Va., to 6002—67th .Ave., Riverdale, Md. . . . HUGH BOYLE, who moved from Pittsburgh to 32 Dromlin Rd., Westport, Conn. . . . GENE aAMOOSA, who moved from New York to 3 Eisele .Ave., Wanamassa, N.J. . . . and DON **MR. MUSIC'* GELS, who moved from Greenwich, Conn., to 125 W. Htllcrest Ave, Havcrtown, Pa. 
Toledo's TOM MURRAY, whose dulcet tones report the news and provide the patter between records in his home town, will recite the marriage vows with Kathy Kearney Sept. 14 in Chicago. Tom will have three of our finest in his wedding parly—FR.\NK LOLLI, GAVIN KING and MIKE HAGGARTW The word out of Tulsa is that Gavin also is planning to tic the knot, and there also are reliable reports from Detroit that Mike wtU take the plunge, too. Maybe Ihcy all should just buy the formals instead of renting them! 
The California wire has it that ED FOX j'oined the married ranks on July 13. The lucky girl is the former Eleanor Brunjes of Long Beach. Ed ts an attorney with the Treasure- Department in Los Angeles. 
DICK McCORMICK, ED McCOY, HARRY N*EWM.\N, HARVEY NEWQUIST, DICK and TOM O'DOiNNELL, TIPTON PATTON, JOHN PEISKER, PAUL REED, BEN REIDY, NORM S.\UNDERS, BRUNO SAVICZ, FRED THOMAS, PHEL.AN THOMPSON, JOHN VINCENT, TOM VIVIANO, JOHN WANCHOW, MIKE (NEW YORK) WARD and ED ZOTTER arc long oicrdue in the writing drpartment. 
From the Alumni Office: Rumor has it that JEROME E. BURNS has been?, is?, will be? married. As we said, it is an unconfirmed rumor, and we hate to commit ourselves. For confirmation, Jcrr>- can be reached at the Court House in Saginaw, Michigan, where he is chief assistant prosecuting attorney. Captain EUGENE P. WAGNER is now partici­pating in the largest air-ground defense exercise ever held by Southeast iVsia Treaty Organization nations. Gene, a USAF assistant director of personnel plans, and his wife Beverly arc permanently assigned to Clark .Air Base, Philippines. 
WILLI.\M A. CLEMENTS, of the Dayton (Ohio) Daily News, won the state newspaper award for the best political 5tor\'. Bill was honored at a dinner in Columbus in July. His home address is: 2209 Rustic Road, Dayton 3. 
1956 
AU-in D. Vitt 4 Wind Rush Creek (West) Su Louis 41, Missouri 
From the .Mumni Office: Secretar>- .AL VITT was a little discouraged when all he could do for this issue was send his regards to the .Alumni stafT. He is becoming so desperate for news, he has even considered offering free trips to Europe—if only someone would please WRITE. Let's not give .At a complex—take pen in hand and tell him tvhat you have or haven't been doing. It only takes a couple of minutes! 
PETER J. CANNON has successfully completed ("and with a commendable record," says the as­sistant dean) all the requirements for a Master of Business .Administration degree at Western Rcser\'c University. Pete got his ^LS. in aeronautical engineering in 1958. 
Received word from Lt. JAMES SHUMAKER who is presently stationed at the Marine Corps Air Facility Santa Ana and functions as the medical officer for the Third Marine Air Wing. His new-address is: 433 Locust. Laguna Beacli, Calif. Capt. QARL A. MEYER, JR., USAF, received his M.D. from Jefferson ^fedical College in Philadelphia and entered the specialty of anesthesiolog>'. He is now Chief of anesthesiology at Mather .Air Force Base, Calif. He and his wife Tliomasinc (whom he married in 1959) have three children, Caria, Carl HI and Thomas. Come October, the Afcyer family will number sLx. Captain D.ANIEL J. YARR (with his wife Roxie) has been assigned to Scmbach, Germany, in the redepIo\-mcnt of his Air Force unit. Dan b commander of the squadron detachment which co­ordinates activities of Army ground forces with .Air Force operations. 
A change of address for BERNARD V.AN ETTEN, JR.: 335 Holly Court, Glenwood, Illinois. He also became a papa November 11, 1962; his daughter's name is Susan Jean. 
NICHOL.\S J. SCHMEL2ER has been promoted to regional sales manager for Hyland Laboratories' Central Region. He will make his office in Chicago. 
JAMES A. BRO\\*N has been named city public Works director for Paso Robles, Calif. A licensed englacLT and a member of the National Engineer's .Association, Jim has had his own engineering firm for 2 ^ years. He and his wife Barbara have three children. By the way, Jim would like to hear from any of his X.D. classmates. The Browns live at 620 Luckcr .Avenue, Paso Robles. 
1957 
John P. McMeel 
30 E. 42nd St. 
New York 17, N.Y. 
On the 1st ^fonday of everj' month the Class of '57 meets at 12 noon in Box'cr's restaurant on Lake Street in the Loop in Chicago. Ever>' member of our Class li\-ing in the Chicago area is urged to attend. (Or anyone passing through!) For details call FR.ANK HENNESSEY at the Chicago Tribune. 
Prayers are requested for the father of our class­mate JON KUBIAK who died May 25. 
RON S.ABLES and his wife and daughter are moving to Washington, D.C. where he will take a residency In orthopedic surgery at Georgetown Hospital—JOE PORTER finished law school at University of Detroit and is now clerk to the State Supreme Court Justices in Lansing . . . TOM NICKNISH is moving to Iowa City this summer where he will be a resident in Medicine . . , TOM FORDYCE, DDS, is still single and just returned from a Mediterranean cruise and is slated to be discharged from the Xa\y . . . Jx\CK MURR.AY is selling life insurance in Detroit . . . BERT HORNB.ACK will be on the faculty at Notre Dame for the school year 63-64 as a temporary- instructor in the Dept. of English. Bert is working towards his PhD and hopes to finish In June of '64 . . . GENE YURGEALITIS is a family man with two children. Gene is working in Electronic Development at Xerox Corp. in Rochester, N.Y. . . . JAMES FEES and his wife returned to the U.S. in .August 1962 from a two year tour at the .American Embassy In Khartoum, Sudan. Jim has now been transferred to Talz, Yemen .Arab Republic as Consul at the U.S. Embassy '. . . Sandy and DON GLENTON are living in 29 Palms, California, where Don is a 1st Lt. Marine Corps. They are the happy parents of a Gregory" and a Deborah .. . Dr. ART JOHNSON Is now living in San Diego with wife and son, and w-Ith the Navy Medical Corps . . . BOB BOGG is with the Cus­tomer Research Staff of General ^{otors . . . JIM W.ALTER is with the Chevrolet Facilities and Product Planning . . . NICK DUJMOVICH Is xvlth 
Chevrolet Dealer Organization analysis section . . . JIM MALONEY is with the Diesel Engine Division. .All of these GM people are In Detroit . . . Speaklng^ of Detroit the firm of Touche, Ross, Bailey and SInart, CPA, employ D.AN KELLY. DICK WALSH, and LOU BOSCO. Dan still leads Dick in the children's department by 3 to 2 respectively . . . Lou still has time, he just joined the marital ranks last summer. JERRY FANNION will complete La%v School at Detroit this June . . . Mary Ann and BURKE CUENY arc the proud parents of three In Detroit . . . Thanks to BOB BOGG for the ver>* complete Motor City picture . . . TERRY BYRNE has compiled a list of credits since he left the alma mater. He has acquired an M»A. degree and is presently living in the Washington area where he Is an economist for the government. Especially admiraule is the fact that he is still a bachelor! Betsy and JIM KENNEDY are living in Norfolk, Va., where Jim b a medical officer. Upon his discharge the Kennedys (two boys) will return to Cook County Hospital In Chicago . . . DAVE SOLOMON is with Montgomery Ward in Baltimore. 
In the children's department It Is reported that Pat and J.ACK KING were blessed with their first, an eight pounder; her name is Caroline . . . GENE. HEDRICK is back in the "Mountains of Montana." The Hedricks are the parents of three . . . CY FREIDHEIM received his master's degree in In­dustrial Administration from Carnegie Tech and will h'vc in Detroit where he is with the Central Finance Staff of Ford .Motor . . . P.AUL KR.APP and wife are living in Cincinnati where he is with Procter & Gamble . . . Capt. Dr. & Mrs. TONY YURCHA K are hone>'mooning in Tongduchon, Korea, courtesy of Uncle Sam . . . BILL JOLLY and family are living In Cleveland, Ohio, where Bill Is in the super\-isory end of the installation of IBM equipment . . . CHUCK GRACE and wife Mary .Ann arc expecting their fourth . . . Chuck is Regional ^fg^. for Cummins Diesel and living in La Habra, Cal. . . . JOHN NflNARD is taking his residency at Mercy Hospital in Pittsburgh. John and his wife Barbara have two children . . . BOB BERGIN and his wife Connie arc living in Barber* ton, Ohio, where Bob is emplov'cd by Bafxrock & Wilcox Co. They arc not alone, for three little Babcocks join them for dinner each e%*ening .. . Loretta & PAUL H.AWBLrnU£L are living in L..A. where Paul was recently promoted to office super­visor at the MINCOM Division of 3M .. . On March 27 their first was bom—Mark Willard . -. Mary Rita & J.ACK ZELLER plus three arc living in Cleveland where Jack is employed as a system anal>-st for Lear Seiglcr Corp. . -. STE\'X O'DONNELL Is working for his .MBA . . . TO.\f RILEY Is working as an attorney for Continental Casualty in Chicago . . . Mary .Anne and DON DOHERTY are spreading good will with five little 
ones while Don is employed as a systems engineer 
with IBM. .. . He certainly knows his business .. . 
Mr. and Mrs. DEAN DAVIS of Kansas City, Mo., adopted a baby, Kelly Sue, in May. ST. JOSEPH VALLEY — Patriotic UND Night at the Morris Inn on campus featured such P.AUL H. GIROUX has been appointed an ad-celebrities as (l.-r.) Club President Joseph Dillon; Past President Bob Cahill, visor>' engineer in Gemini Computer Engineering at University ticket czar, named Notre Dame Man of the Year; Br^adier General John 
IBM's Space Guidance Center in Owego, New York. 
Hencbry, USAF Res., Chicago, principal speaker; Gerald Hanunes, outgoing 
Paul, a member of the Institute of Radio Engineers, lives at 512 Day Hollow, Endicott. 
president, presenting the award; and Thomas L. Hickcy, Sr., honorary president. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 51 
TUCSON — Basketball Coach John Jordan confronts a wide-angle shot of his audience for Universal Notre Dame Night in Arizona. Head tablers from Johnny's left are Tim King, Tucson president; Mrs. King; Father Duffy, chaplain; Mrs. Buddy Goldman, wife of the secretarj-; and the right ear of Vice-President Jim Reilly. Nearly 100 heard Jordan at the annual obser\-ance. 
ED SMIERCIAK is an electronic engineer with ITT Federal Laboratories in Ft. WajTie, Ind. Ed is married and the father of 3 . . . TOM GUNNING and his wife Gretchen plus three are liWns in Atlanta where Tom is a CPA for A.M. Pullen & Co. . . . ED FECHTEL is liWng with his family in Athens. Ga. . . . ARNIE SCHWARTZ is doing graduate work in Atlanta . . . LOU LONCARIC has left single blessedness and is selling securities for E. F. Hutton S: Co. also in Atlanta . . . Mv good friend, ERV .\NDERSO-\ is MARRIED and is the father of one daughter. Erv is employed by Sears. Roebuck and Co. as credit sales manager in Galesburgj III. . . . Barbara Ann and JOE AN­DREWS and son arc Ii«ng in Hawaii where Joe is manager of the Kamucia Branch of the Bank of Hawaii . . . Joe 5a>'5 to stay at his place any time you are in the area . . . Dorothy Jane and JOE CONRATH are living at Fort Eustis, Va., ^vhcre he is a captain in tlie Transportation Combat Developments Agcnc>'. Father of two potential privates . . . TERRY CROWLEY is now Documents Librarian for the Orange County Librar>' System in Souihem California . . .GENE MUHLHERR is married with two children and is living in Dallas where he is a geophysical engineer for Geophysical Service Inc. . . . JIM MORG.AN is married and three and living in Milwaukee where he is Guidance Counselor for Nicolct High School , . . ERC SPINOS.\ and family are living in .Mlcntown, Pa., where Ere is a civil engineer . . . JIM ROWLAND is married and also Hnng in .Allentown wher Jim is with G.E. . . . Nano* and JOHN JEGLIC are living In Philadelphia where John Is In the civil engineering field . . . GERALD McNERNEY is, witli the Catholic Relief Services—NCWC and is in Ghana, West -Africa handling distribution of .Ameri­can surplus foods and medical supplies and used clothing donated by the Catholics of America . . . On May 25ih, R.AY LESCHER was ordained to the priesthood in Jolict, III. . . . W'ith this goes our congratulations in this the finest of all occupations and our remembrance in your daily Mass and prayers. 
.Alice & GREG QARRIG.AN arc living in Wausau, Wisconsin, tvith their 4 children where Greg Is associated with J. C. Penney & Co. . . . Dr. LEON GLOVER, JR. received his Ph.D from Stanford in June of 62 and is presently employed by the Shell Development Co., Emery\*ille, Cal. . . . Joan & DON LEONE arc living in Chicago whcr Don is a mechanical engineer with Sargent & Lundy . . , On April 13 a festive occassion . . . Their first daughter after four sons. Our congratulations—Our ranks are growing thin. At twelve noon on the 25th of May we lost to the sacrificial altar one of greatest stal­warts . . . K. J. PHELAN. .All future announce­ments and Invitations will be addressed to Mr. & Mrs. Phelan for now Mary Catherine does his plan­ning and thinking. Regardless, our best wishes and congratulations young man! 
I have two mystery guests. These are people who returned their card but foi^ot tlie signature. Please step fonv-ard and identify yourself. The first: I am married, father of t^vo boys—graduated from Michi­gan Med School—present time at the first year of residency in internal medicine at Wa>-ne Counts-General Hospital. My first name is Joseph A. ? 
Our second guest .. . I am a Captain in the U.S. 
52 Notre Dame Alumnus. August-September^ 

Army Signal Corps. Currently stationed at University of Washington, Seattle. Just completed work for master's degree in Atmospheric Sciences. Have two children, a boy—Richard, a girl—Kathleen. ^Vho am I? That is what we would like to know. 
From the .Alumni OHIce: Another mystcr>- guest of the Class of '57 gradu­ated from Georgetown Lavv School In January, 1963, and presently Is employed as patent attorney for General Electric Co. Before graduation, he passed the Virginia Bar Exam. He and his wife Jeanninc {Mar\-grove College), whom he married In Decem­ber of 57, have three children, two boj-s and a girl. They live at 53 High Ridge Drive, Monroe, Conn. This chap would like to licar from BOB NO­WAKOWSKI, DICK FOX, JACK SCRIBA. JOHN NITKA, BILL BAPST and DICK POLLENZ. If he'd onlv send his mane. . . . ERCOLE JOHN SPINOSA, of AUentown, Pa., received his M.S.C.E. from Lehigh University. A 
B.S. in Industrial Management was awarded to CYRUS F. FREIDHEIM, JR., of Chicago, 111. 
LEONARD J. DIGIACO.MO, still in the bachelor ranks, is in public relations work with The Con­tinental Bank and Trust Co., Salt Lake City, Utah. Leonard Is associated with the N.D. Club of Utah as sccrctar>'-treasurer. 
WILLIAM BAUER and his wife Jo are living in Burlington, Iowa, where Bill Is practicing law and is assistant city attorney. He Is also on the board of directors of the Burlington Bees Baseball Team. Bill and Jo have two children. 
The EDWIN "DON" McCRORVS have five children: Colleen, Eddie, Mar>', Lynne and Margie. The family lives at 6734 Roxvan Lane, Houston, Texas. Don is now employed at Plastic Applicators, Inc., as a chemical engineer in their research and development department. Pat McCrory writes that their neighbors are the JOHN NICKNISHES, *55, (Brother of Tom, '57). The Nicknish clan consists of four girls and two bo>'s. 
OWXN DESMOND III, joined the staff of The Chase Manhattan Bank as a trainee on tlie Per­sonnel .Administration special development program last May. 
JOHN T. MURPHY has completed his studies toward a Master of Science degree in management engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute with the assistance of LB.M.'s Tuition Refund Program. John joined I.B.M. In 1957 and has ad­\'anced to senior associate Industrial engineer In proposal cost engineering. He and his wife Patricia with their daughter ^faura li\'e at 31 LounsbeiT>' Place, Kingston, New York. 
1958 

1st Lt. Arthur L. Roulc, Jr 4643tli Support Squadron, Box 197 Duluth Air Force Base Duluth 14, Minnesota 
REUNION REGISTRANTS JOE ACCARDO, BILL AITKAN, MARTIN ALLEN, ROBERT BENO, JOHN BERCHEM, 
1963 

FRANK BISCHOF, FRED J. BOOTH, FRANK BRIODY, CARL A. BRUECKNER, JERRY J. BURKE, WILLUM CAHILL, JAMES CARELL, JOHN CARLIN, MICHAEL CATANZARO, JR., BILL CHESSON, EDWARD CLAIR, VIC CLESI, PHILIP D. CONWAY , JOE CORCORAN, CHARLES DAY, ED DAY, HENRY B. De-CALUWE, RICHARD DEELY, BERT DeNOURIE, BOB DUFFY, JOHN F. DUNN, RICHARD DWANE, JOSEPH DWYER, THOMAS EISEN­HAUER, JOSEPH ELLAM, JAMES ENGLEHART, GEORGE FEELEY, JA!kIES B. FEENEY, ALAN FLORIN, MIKE FOGARTY, FRANK FOX, A. REMY FRANSEN, JR., tVILLIAM GEARY, GER­ALD GENOVESE, ^VILLIAM GINDER, GEORGE GLASGOW, URBAN GRADEL, BURTON GREEN­BERG, TIM HARRIGAN, JERRY HAYES, RICH­ARD HEALEY, JOSEPH R. HEIMOSKI, FRANK 
P. HERIGSTAD, JOHN B. HIGGINS, FRED HOLZL, RUSS HOPKINS, JOHN HRIBAR, BOB HUETZ, DAVID IMMONEN, DANIEL IRWIN, fVILLIAM C. JOHNSON, WILLUM J. JONES, DON KEATING, JOE KILLIAN, WALTER KIS­LING, PATRICK KITTREDGE, CHARLES B. Wrrz, FRANK KUCHTA, DANIEL K. LAMONX ^VILLU.M LANDON, ELMER LAYDON, MICH­AEL R. LEYDEN, JOHN J. LIESKE, JOHN LLOYD, DONALD P. LOPEZ, FRANK McCOR-MACK, JOHN J. McDONOUGH, JOHN McFAD-DEN, ROBERT McGOVERN, HUGH J. Mc-GUIRE, DAVID J. McMAHON, JOHN F. M c MAHON, JERRY McNABB, JAMES J. McN.A.M­ARA, JAMES J. McNAKIARA, JA.MES McNAM-ARA, DANID L. McSHANE, ROBERT MACK, JOHN MADDEN, BRUCE MALEC, MICHAEL 
V. MALKMUS, THOMAS MARTIN, ROBERT 
J. MASSMAN, JOSEPH M\>VBY, THOMAS .M.AX. WELL, GEORGE MITCHELL, THOMAS P. MOORE, FRANK MORAN, JOHN MORELAND, LAWRENCE MURPHY, LESTER MURPHY, FATHER EDWARD NASH, D.AN O'BRIEN, THO.MAS W. O'BRIEN, MICHAEL J. O'CON­NOR, RICHARD O'DONNELL, GEORGE K. OMARTIAN, THOMAS O'REGAN, ROBERT PARNELL, BERNARD PELLEGRINO, RICHARD PHELAN, PHILIP PHILGEN, ROBERT PORST, ALLAN FRAUGHT, CHARLES RATH, PHILIP RAUEN, WLLU M REISERT, ROBERT RE.MM. JACK REVORD, PETER ROBERSON, ART ROULE, WALTER J. SCHNEBLE, ROBERT SCHIVENKER, JOSEPH SCOTKOVSKY, J.AV SENNOTT, EDWARD SHADD, DAVID J. SHAN­AH.AN, WILLLUI SHEEHAN, JOHN SHEEH\% WILLUM SHERMAN, ROBERT SIMONS, RICH­ARD SINNOTT, JAMES J. SMITH, FRANK E. SMURLO, CHARLES STEIN, JOHN R. SULLI­VAN, TIMOTHY SULLIVAN, JOHN TATIGI.AN, EDWARD S. THOMAS, JR., JOHN TIBERI, PHILIP TIERNEY, ROGER TOUG.*S, JAMES TRINO, DALE VANDENBERG, VINCEN T WEHBY, AL fVEINSHELMER, REV. CHARLES WELSH, C.S.C., EM.METT WHEALAN, ROY V. WILLLAMS, RICHARD L. WILLSON. 
LAW CLASS OF 1958 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

JOHN G. "JERRY" CUBRAN, RAY F. DREX­LER, JOHN F. &MRCH.AL, WLLI.AM McLAIN. JOHN F. MURRAY. 
The ihcmc of this edition of the Alumnus and of our Class column Is. of course, the recent Reunion Weekend. Your secretary- and a host of classmates (u'hosc names you will find listed above) have just returned to our respective domiciles from what was unanimously regarded as a great gathering and a weekend well spent. The weather was ideal—almost as if the weather man were attempting to make up for past misbehavior (e.g., graduation weekend). The golf course was green and inviting, the sun avas bright, the atmosphere was convivial, the greetings were warm, and the beer was free. 
Most of us, of course, were seeing each other for the first time in five years. Naturally a few of the boys had grown a bit more full-bodied and a few were more skin-headed but the essentials were very-little changed. In other words, it was the same fine group that spent the years 1954 through 1958 together under the Dome. 
The events of the weekend got under way Friday morning with registration of the first arrivals and the beginning of the two-day golfing activities. Xew arrivals continued to appear on the scene through­out the day and evening and even into Saturday, the I5th. Friday evening, after the golfers and the drinkers had spent their days in their respective areas of endeavor (which were not mutually ex­clusive), the Class gathered for a buffet at the South Dining Hall. Friday evening saw the con­tinuation of the "Hey, Joe, whatta ya say? Long time no see," together with lours of the various hangouts of student da\'s (Joers, Frankies, the Dog House, etc.). 
Dillon Hall chapel was the scene of a Class Mass on Saturday morning celebrated by classmate F.-VTHER ED NASH, recently ordained to the priesthood as a Dominican. Later the clan was gathered for the official class picture seen elsewhere in tile magazine. A Class movie, taken at various times during our Senior year on campus (mostly by JERRY BURKE) was exhibited to interested onlookers, as it will be in the future together with additions filmed at this and future reunions. 
Various college open houses and receptions occupied the rest of Saturday prior to the .Alumnt Banquet in the evening which featured addresses by .-Mumni Secretary Jim Armstrong, Father Hes-burgh, and Alumni President Oliver Hunter. The Class of '50 convened for a cocktail hour immediately prior to the banquet in the ^(allOgany Room of the Morris Inn. 
Finally, the time for departure came on Sunday morning, following the Alumni ^(ass in Sacred Heart Church. It seemed to be the consensus that it had been a wonderful weekend marred only by the fact that many of you were not present. In this regard all that we can say is, don't miss the next one. 
.-\t this point a word should be said about the unfortunate late mailing of the registration cards for the reunion, many of which were received only one week prior to the opening of the reunion week­end. Although there had been frequent notices of the reunion in previous publicity mailings it may be that some of the brethren had let the dates slip their minds and were caught by surprise when the last notices finally arrived. If this caused anyone to miss the reunion who would otherwise have been able to attend, we are sincerely sorr\-. The .-\lumnl Oflicc assures me that this will not occur in the future. 
And while still on the subject of reunions, this would be an appropriate time to mention that the Annual After-Game Reunion of the Class of 1958 will be held October 12, following the Southern Cal game. Details will be forthcoming by separate mailing. We hope to see you there. 
Your secretary* apologizes for not having an abun­dance of personal-type news for this issue, but he spent his time in enjoying himself at the reunion rather than taking notes. Conversely, apologies are due from those of you who have not written recently (or ever) with news for this column. Many of you at the reunion mentioned how much you enjoyed reading our news. How about supplying <ome of that news yourself? As the man says, 
This column depends, 
Upon its friends. 
Help! Help! 

.And the volume of incoming mail has been almost nil lately, so how about some cooperation? 
What news we do have Is as follows: ROD METTE was married June 1, in Stoux Falls, So. Dak., to Miss Mar>' Alice O'Boyle. Rod is with the 
F.C.C. in Washington having graduated from N.D. 
Law School in 1961. JOHN JACHNLAN has returned to N.D. to work toward a master's degree in Electrical Engineering. He was married in June 1960, (wife Diane is from S.M.C.) and is the father of one son, Matthew, with another arrival expected momentarily. John previously ser\'ed three years with the Navy after completing O.C.S. In 1959. The Jachmans' present address: Apt. M-1, P.O. Box 533, University Village, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
DON MCNEIL L recently wrote from Rome, where he is continuing his studies toward the priesthood (C.S.C.) and where he has, of course, witnessed the historical events of the past year. 
Before closing, I want to express special thanks to JOE CORCOR.\N for handling local arrange­ments for our class at the reunion. He did an excellent job and contributed greatly to the success of the weekend. 
From the .Mumni Office: DON MUSICH has recently taken up residence in California at 9709 Olympic Blvd., Beverly Hills. Since his graduation from DcPaul School of Law in Chicago, Don has passed both the Illinois and California Bar Exams. From DENNY TROESTER. '57, come word that NORM ODYNIEC is engaged to be married. Norm graduated from Georgetown Medical School and will be interning at the District of Columbia General Hospital. 
WILLUM A. FARMER received his Master of Bus. .Ad. from Rollins College and at the present time is employed as finance analyst with the Martin Company in Orlando, Florida. MILO SOLOMITO, JR., was awarded a \LS, in Nuclear Engineering and Science from Rensselaer Polvlechnic Institute in June. THOMAS V. MARTIN received his juris doctor from Ohio Slate University. 
HAROLD GREGORY KILDUFF is a brand new father. He and his wife Jane have a boy, Robert Grcgorv-, born on May 31, 1963. They will be moving to Dubuque, Iowa, at the end of the summer where he will teach at Loras College. 
JOHN T. DEE is administrator and principal of Elkhart Grade School in Elkhart, Illinois, where he and his wife Mary arc the proud parents of Maria, 3, and Gcri, 1. 
Army 1st Lt. EDWARD M. OTOOLE partici­pated in Exercise LOGEX 63 in late April and early May at Fort Lee, Va. The --\rmed Forces ad­ministered support and supply for a l)>'pothctical field army of 400.000 in combat in central and southeastern Europe. Before entering the Army, Ed was a patent law\*er wiih Merriam, Smith and Marshall, Chicago. 
ROBERT A. COLAIZZI, JR., was promoted to rank of Lieutenant in the Navy. He presently scr\'es as Public Information Officer of the U. S. Naval Training Center, San Diego, California. Bob'a previous assignments include public ixUtloas liaison with the motion picture and television industries (Los Angeles), Operations and Public Infoimation Officer (Long Beach), and Mine Countermeasarcs Officer aboard the minesweeper USS Persistent, home-ported in Long Beach. 
JAMES D. WALSH III, has been employed as a sales trainee by the Slimwear DK*ision til the Warner Brothers Company. Previously, he was a life in­surance salesman with Equitable Life of New York. Jim, his wife and child live at 445 Creve Coeur St., LaSalle, Illinois. 
ROBERT ERNST, a science teacher at Main Junior High Sf:hool and chairman of the City's (Mishawaka, Ind.) Junior High Science Department, was accepted as a participant In the National Science Foundation's Summer Institute. Bob will be studying at the University of California, Berkeley, for eight weeks. 
At the Rhode Island School of Design. ROBERT 
T. JUNGELS has been appointed to instruct in the humanities and the newly created department of drawing. A former first-prize winner in Today magazine's short story contest. Bob was on the faculty of St. John's University. 
RICHARD L. SINNOTT, assistant cashier-director of Public Relations at the Central National Bank in Chicago, ser\'ed as a group chairman in the Chicago Business Division during the American Cancer Society's .April Crusade. Dick's other civic activities include being a member of the Public Relations Committee of the Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry, and Chicago Financial -Advertisers-Financial Public Relations .Association. 
DON J. RONEY, representative for the Conti­nental .Agency Co. in Salt Lake City, Is marriecl and the father of a little girl. Don is also president of the N.D. Club of Utah. 
JOHN F. McM.AHON, staff assistant in the public relations division, Davenport Works, .Alumi­num Company of America, will transfer to the Raw Materials Division, Pittsburgh. He will move to Paramaribo, Suriname, as Public Relations Officer for the Suriname Aluminum Co. John Is a director of the Iowa Industrial Editors Assn., publicity* chair­man for the Scott County Young Republicans and a member of the Davenport Junior Chamber of Commerce. 
FATHER BRIAN J. EG.AN, O.S.B., in a pre­commenccmcnt talk to students of St. Bernard College (Alabama) said that blame for **the sordid display of barbarity" in Birmingham rests on *'al] of us who have cringed from defense of the defenseless." 
.Asking w*ith whom the responsibility lies, he answered: 
MID-HUDSON VALLEY —All-star cast of Univcisia Night festivities in Ponglikeciisi^ N.Y., included (l.-r.) Bro. Linus R. Foy, F.M.S., president of Marist College; Sid Osofsky, winner of the first local Knute Roclme Award to an outstanding h^h school scholar-athlete; Charles W. Beck, president of the Mid-Hudson Valley ND Club; Alfred J. Perrine, Foundation assbtant director and Univeruty guest; and Brian C. O'Neill, vice-president of the Hudson River ND organization. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 53 
**AII of us. CIcrg>Tncn who hzve timidly wciglied insignificant claims against blatant injustices in the name "of prudence; businessmen whose worship of the almighty dollar blinds them to any more-important considerations; politicans who have sacri­ficed justice to political expedience and pou'cr; cverj'one with a morsel of Christian commitment who has dared sanctify his inner prejudices with the halo of sclf-rishtcousness; men who have played the game of negotiation not toward a just solution of a complex problem but towards the destruction of Ihc thirst for freedom by the straiasem of legal gob­blcdygook and procrastination." 
1959 
Dennis M. Ncad 
6121 Robison Rd. 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 
ROBERT DUNHA.\f, JOSEPH BISIGNANO, 
JAMES A. GRIFFIN, MARTIN POWERS, 
EUGENE SALEM, KEVIN C. SMITH. 
JIM BAGUVI is with Procter and Gamble's 
Crest Toothpaste Division and is liWng in the East. 
DON GERNE is a systems analyst for IBM and 
lives in New Jersey. 
JOE KENNEY is a portfolio analyst for Merrill L>Tich in New York. Joe vvas married in May; tlie bride's name is unknown to me. 
JIM CRISMA N is prcsenily a sales trainee for Merrill Lynch in New York, .\ftcr Jim passes the Nr»* York slock exchange exam in June, he will become a registered representative. 
Received a nice letter from TOM McHALE and will quote the letter because he has nin into many of the '59 men. 
'"After graduation in June of *59. I took a job with Western Union along with JAKE RAGUSH and LEO CONLON. During the first year, I had something like a dozen different addresses while going through the training program. Ever>- city 1 visited I ran into numerous N.D. men. In Phila­delphia I met HAROLD SIEGEL, TOM O'DON­NELL, and DICK ROBERTSON. In June of *62, I left Western Union to come back to Pawtucket. Rhode Island, to work for Pawiuckct Ready Mixed Concrete Company as their manager. I married the former Sheila Scntini in June of 'GI and this past January I8th announced the birth of our first child. Alan Thomas. Here in Rhode Island. I've met JIM McSLAHO.V ulio is now uUh the FBI in Provi­dence."—Thanks for the news. Tom. 
TIM M.\HONEY is with the Dcpard and Com­pany in New York City. Tim J. has a penthouse apartment at 71 Park .Avenue. .Apt. 20. He welcomes anyone and ever>-one but requests that wc refrain from calling after 3:00 a.m. or before 11:45 a.m. 
KEVIN HALLPG.AN married the former Miss Cathy Sulli\-an on the 20th of .April at St. .-Vloysius Church in Jersey City, New Jersey. 
PETER C. FURNARI was married in August of 1959 and now has two children, David, 3 years, and Christopher, 9 months. Pete graduated from N.Y.U. College of Dentistry June 5. I9G3, with a Doctor of Dental Surgcrv- degree, and has accepted a com­mission as Captain in the Army Dental Corps. He will be stationed in Fort Sam Houston, San .\ntonio. Texas, for the next two years at Brook Army Hospital's dental clinic. 
ERNIE J.ATTA and his wife Pat now have three children, two girls and a boy. Ernie has just graduated from Buffalo Medical School and will intern at a Buffalo hospital for the next year. 
RON HA.MMOND and his tvife Carol have a girl now, and Ron just graduated from Loyola Medical School and will intern in Dearborn, Michigan, this coming year. He was recenllv on tour in Nc^*' York with GEORGE .M.\Y, DICK NAGLE, and PHIL WINSCUNAR, ail of wiiom just graduated from Loyola Med. School also. 
MARK KESSINICH will finish at Wharton's School of Business tliis December and probably will work in N.Y.C.—might be because Dtane is waiting in Manhasset. The Colonel and Mrs. Kessenich (Mark's folks) now reside in Duland, Florida, just adjacent to the golf course. 
TOM BOHME R is tcacliing tennis this summer in Columbus, Ohio, and plans an exhibition matcli with Barry McKay at Wending Hollow Countrj-Club. On the weekends the pro is busy traveling to Vanceburg, Kentucky, \Tsiting a likely prospect. 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 
SAN DIEGO — Among the stars of UND 
Night at the Hotel Del Coronado, this Irish trio includes (l.-r.): Lt. General 
Francis Mulcahy, USMC (ret), '14, named ^D Alan of the Year; San Diego Club 
President Chris Cohan, '54; and Head Basketball Coach Johnny Jordan, campus guirst. 
On behalf of the N.D. Class of '59. may I express sympathy to the parents of THO.M.AS J. Mc-IN*TYRE, BSC '59, who died this past December of 1962. 
From the .Alumni Office: Dr. MICH.\EL T. O'NEIL received his M.D. in June from the Universitv of Nebraska College of Medicine. PAUL FRANCIS ANDERSON and GEORGE WILLIAM CR.\VEN received their Master of Science in Industrial .AdminiJlration at the Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
Armv 1st Lts. JOHN H. L.AUERM.\N and WILLIAM C. BURTIS, JR., participated in Exer­cise LOGEX 63 at Fort Lee, Va. The .Armed Forces administered support and supply for a 

WALTER W. SMITH, '27, wdely syndi­cated sports columnist, joined fellow alumni at St. Bonaventurc University for the annual Press Day: (l.-r.) Dr. RusscU J. Jandoli, '40, chairman; John E. Ritzcn* thaler, '34, public relations; Red Smith; and Prof. Nicholas J. Aniato, '44, recep­tion chairman. 
1963 
hypothetical field army of 400,000 locked in combat 
in central and southeastern Europe. Lt. D.ANIEL 

B. LORENZ Js now stationed at Fort Ord and has been assigned as a training ofHccr in the infantry*. Before entering the serx-icc, Dan received a law degree from the University of California at Berkeley. 
RICRARD FREDERICK O'MALLEY is work­

ing for his doctorate in histor\- at Notre Dame. 
He will be returning to Pennsylvania in September 
to teacli at St. Joseph's College. 
PATRICK V. O'DEA has been named chairman 

of the St. Bonaventurc University's Histor>- De­
partment. He is a member of the .American His­
torical .Association. 
PETER A. LAPP.AN, JR., instructor of mathe­

matics at Lehigh University, is one of 13 .Ameri­
cans whom Educational Ser\-iccs, Inc., has in­
vited to participate in an eight-week mathematics 
curriculum workshop which it is sponsoring in 
Africa this summer in conjunction with the .Agency 
for International Development. Peter wi'It be re­
turning from Entebbe, Uganda, .August 29. He 
is a member of the .American Mathematical Society. 
JOSEPH P. KRUG, with the treasury depart­ment of The Cleveland Paper Co., his wife Barbara and their two children, Carolyn Sue. 3, and Joseph .Alphonse. 2, moved into their new home (all their ver>- own!!) at 21958 Eaton Road, Cleveland 26, Ohio. 
1960 
John F. Gcier 715 La Crosse Avenue Wibnettc, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRANT J.AMES ALL.AN, III. 

(John apologizes for the somewhat dated news. Unfortunately his column arrived too late for in­clusion In our last issue. Ed, note). 
The Gazetteer is here again to bring cheer and good news of our go^getting alumni, some here . . . some there . . . Important Date! Class of '60 Re­union this fall! Weekend of UCLA-ND game. October 19. As wc have reached the age when years have started to tick faster, mark your calendars NOW for our first five-year reunion—to be held ­in June '65. This is a must! Don't forget! 
On ^fay 4lh a Alass was ofTered at Notre Dame for our classmate D.ANIEL P. BOWLING, who died October 3, 1962, On behalf of the Class, may I express our sincere sympathy to Dan's parents. Mr. &. Mrs. Blair Bowling, Box 6, Sumner, Iowa. Please remember Dan in your prayers. 
AL GRIFFIN brings us the sad news of his mother's death last December. .AI, who has two more years of seminarv' training until ordination, is studying at St. John's Seminar>% Brighton. Mass. .Also keep in your prayers Mr. Jacob Dvorak, the father of classmate JACOB A. DVORAK, who died .April 30, 1962. 
I am grateful to the informants who have kepi in contact with *'class ncus" headquarters, and trust many more will make their contribution too! 
REVEREND AVILLIAM J. MARTEN, «Iio re­ceived his M..A. in '60, writes of his activities in vocation work. In addition to his duties as parish priest at St. Catherine of Stena Church in Toledo, Ohio, Father serves as executive secretary of the Diocesan Directors of Vocations in the Midwest and Western states, of which there arc some 92 dioceses. Says Fr. Martin. "We arc striving to sustain and encourage the interest of all novices in their progressive journey to the Holy .Altar of God." •, 
COUPLING DEPART.MENT NEWS: Ye oldc scribe u-atched the tying of BOB DINI and the former Julie Tonelh" at Sacred Heart Church last fall in Winnctka, III. Bob was graduated from the University of Chicago in Jnne with a law degree. 
1963 brought major changes to TERRY L.ALLY, who is the new golf pro at Fairlawn Countr>- Club in .Akron, Ohio. BOB HORN, now a faculty mem­ber at N.D., was in the wedding party as Terr>-, and the former .Ann Koehler of Louisville, Ky., exchanged vows. 
More nuptial neu-s on the following mcrsers: ", JACOB DVORAK and Dolores Mar\- Cemota, June 30, 1962, in Whiting, Ind. . . . BOB BENNETT and Susan Schwartz, November 3. 1962, in Free­port, III. . . . MICHAEL P. W.ARD and the former Patricia Ann Hurley of Vonkers, X.V., Nov. 17. 1962. (Mike, by the way, is a Research .Associate with the Union Carbide Chemicals Co. in Tarr\­town, N.V.) . . . BERNIE D.AVIS and Mar>- Ruth 
Sliechan, Nov. 1962, in Chicago . . . JOHN O'HARA and Katlilcen Barncit, ^fav, 1963, in Chicago . . . LARRY THOLEX, recently discharged from the Army and now with the Xational Bank of Detroit, w-as married last April 20 . . . JAMES POVNTON and Joyce Dati, August, 1962, in Lake Porcst, III. . . . ARTHUR (BVD) FRA^Z and Angela Agnello, August, 1962, in Chicago . . . Others involved in tlie Sacrament of ^fatrimony arc: P.AUL MARTO, who u-as married to TONY INDENCE*s sister Ginger in June of last year; AN­DY POLTORAK and Carol Schneider, who ex­changed vows June 23, 1962; and DAX'E ROLLER, who married the former Jeanne Fredericks, June 30, 1962. JIM PIELSTICKER and Carol Maclamore were married in Shrcvcporl, La., Jan. 26, 1963. 
Some of our alumni have made an earnest attempt to fill registration rosters at Notre Dame and St. Mary's and have the following data to substantiate their cfTorts. The rigorous jungle training with the 
U.S.
 Army that 2/Lt. JACK RONAYNE received in the Panama Zone has conditioned him for his "wrestling sessions" with John F. Ill, born to him and Eileen Ronayne Oct. 7, 1961. . . . While ED 

T.
 KENNEDY was spending his time in the Uni­versity of Chicago library- preparing for Ins M.B.A. (June '62), his wife Eileen was preparing the nurscrv' for their colleen, Kathleen Marv, born March 27, 1962. 


. . . Bring us up to datef The last news we have of FRANK J. VISOVATTI indicates he and his wife have a daughter 214, named Luc>' Ann, and their last address was Ft. Irwin, Calif. . . . GERALD GOUDREf\U, member of the Dept. of Civil Engineering at the U. of Delaware, announced that the LARRY MARTINS have a future debutante, Maureen Ann, who will be a year on June 4, 1963, and that the Goudrcaus have a handsome escort for her, Thomas Joseph, who will always share little Maureen's birthday. . . . 1/Ll. & Mrs. DONALD PR.AIRIE have a son, John Christopher, who will be a year Sept. 7. The Prairies are living at an Air Force base in Frankfurt, Germany. . . . More '•storkville gleanings'* include the fall arrival of Laurence Michael to Carol and L^VRRY VANCE, and on the distaff side, a daughter, Patricia Anne, (who \»"as a year Aug. 9, *63), to Jan and DICK GELSON, . . . "I'm Here," says Maureen Claire, bom Marcli 13, 1963 — Production Managers, Carol and BRUCE COSACCHI. Better watch out! My daddy is a special agent for the F.B.I, in Rich­mond, Va. . . . CORKY CLARK, who is with Rose & Rose Insurance Co. (location not given], and hts wife arc the parents o( a baby girl . . . and DON CONDIT performed hts duties as god­father at the Baptbm of a little girl born Fcbruarv', 1962, to Carol and DICK BENKENDORF, %vho now live in Peoria, 111. 
In the matlbag are letters from members of the Class of '60 contingent serving militar\- duty over­seas . . . 1/Lt. LEONARD SCHUMACHER, who seemingly has enjoyed the first three years of his militar>' career, is soldiering in AschafTenburg, Germany, where he is assigned to an ambulance companv in the 3rd Infantr\' Division. Len's mailing address is Co. A 3rd Medical Bn., APO 162, N.Y. . . . PAT ARNOULT, whose militar>- record in­cludes duly with the TJjJrd ^farine Antitank Bat­talion in Japan, reportedly is stationed in Thailand . . . Ensign D.\N 0*NEILL is "sailing the high seas" (no ocean given), while his wife Meg and their baby boy, Daniel Paul (born March 31, 1962) are wagias the battle of diapers and formulas in an apartment in Westminster, California. . . . Ensign MARTY TOPPING, cruising the Caribbean \vith the U.S. Na\*>', sends greetings from St. Thomas, Virgin Islands. . . . ED KRALL is flying as navigator with Hca\y Attack Squadron Thirties in the Pacific theater of operations .. . Ed also sends on news of other "airborne" classmates. . . . Lt. (jg) MARION BROWN and Lt. (jg) JOHN AISTHORPE, who are stationed at Whidbey Island, Washington; Lt. (jg) FELIX ISHERWOOD, who is stationed at Naval .\ir Station Barbers Point, Honolulu, Hawaii; and l/Lt. V. P. (SMOKEY) NOL.\N, who is flying with the Marines some­where on the West Coast. 
It's reported that 1/Lt. and Mrs. ROBERT WISXE and daughter are in Sacramento, California, where Bob is piloting with the early warning patrol at nearby McClelland Air Force Base. . . . 1/Lt. JOHN AfULH.ALL, who was rchased Irom active duty last December, received the Army Commenda­tion Medal for his outstanding 5cr%*ice during his two-year tour of duty as an automatic data pro­cessing systems officer at the Signal Center and School, Fort Monmouth, N,J. 
Lt. GREG ROGERS writes tliat he ^^-as discharged from the U.S. Army last summer after ser\-ing 

NEW JERSEY —Power-packed head table for Northern Jersey UND Night included: (standing, l.-r.) Pete Regan, secretary; Bruce Dold, president Father Thomas J. O'Donncll, C^.C, honored guest; Jim Seblo, chairman; Hank Borda, treasurer; and Al Perrine, N.Y. City office of the Notre Dame Foundation, master of cere­monies; (seated, l.-r.) Mrs. Dold, Mrs. Regan, Miss Betty Hall, and Mrs. Seblo. 
with the 503rd Military Intelligence Detachment in Frankfurt, Germany. At the time of writing Greg indicated plans for attending journalism school. . . . The latest news from R.\LPH ROCCO D.ANN.\ reports that he is assigned at Dover, X.J., with the U.S. .Army Picatinny Ordnance .Arsenal. 
We are indebted to JIM POYNTOX, senior test engineer with Flexonics of Bartlett, III., who writes us of his marriage last year and informs us that JOHN CARPENTER was a lieutenant (jg) aboard the U.S.S. Observation Island, and that U.S. Array Lieutenant JOHN WEGLINSKI is guarding an ammunition dump somewhere in France. Jim also enclosed a news clipping which indicates that last year JIM HANN.AN, wlio had finished his .Army ser\-ice at the age of 22 and worked out as a pitcher in the minor leagues, was drafted by the Senators as a powerful strikeout pitcher. 
An anonymous donor of noteworthy items of in­terest relates that ED McKEOWN is still in Wheaton, 111., running a car agenc>- . . . JIM WATERS is working for FidcHtv Xational Bank in his home town of Philadelphia .'. . PHIL SINGLE­TON is affiliated with Price Watcrhousc & Co. . . . D.WE BROECKER is now the father of two and is working for Remington Rand in Indianapolis. . . . JERRY GOULD is emploved with Haskins and Sells in Cleveland. . . . CHUCK SEDELMEYER is with Erie Resistor Corp. in Erie, Pa. . . . TOM BATES 
OKLAHOMA CITY—Conversation was as lively as the Twist and Bossa Nova at the last Holiday Dance, to judge by these candid snapshots of the sitter-outers. 

is doing publicity work for Gannon College. , . , and BILL MORGAN is nearing completion of his law studies at the University of Penn. 
In the writing field arc the "noms de plume'* of JOHN NONOVIC, sports editor for the Maroneck DaUy Times of New York; PETER GENIESSE, reporter for the Green Bay (Wise.) I^ress-Gazctte; JOHN ADLER, sports editor for the Index-Journal of Greenwood, S.C; JIM BYRNE, reporting for the Lewiston Momins Tribune of Lewiston, Iowa; and ED 0*^LALLEY, who has already given two years of ser\-icc as reporter for the Daily NCH-S of Johnson County, Kansas. Thanks, Ed, for the "ofT­duty" reporting of ED BOY^LE (law student at University of Kansas), BILL NOYES (employed with the City National Bank, Kansas City], and Lt. (jg) JOHN MERCHANT (who recently was transferred from overseas duty in Japan to Great Lakes Xav^l Base, III.). 
A letter from JOHN FITZGIBBON informs us of his activities on the West Coast. After touring such far-off places as Okinawa, Midway, Hong Kong, and Tokyo with the Xa^y, Ensign Fitzgibbon has finally settled down to ciWIian life in Los Angeles, where he is employed in th= Sales Di\Tsion of Catalina, Inc., *'the greatest name in sportswear.*' John also sends us news of '60 grad SCOTT Mc-CULLAGH, who now is of marital status and who is a reporter for a Saginaw, Mich., newspaper. 
Expected to arrive this summer from South .America is THOMAS SCANLON of Scranton, Pa., who has completed two years of dedicated service as a member of the Notre Dame group of Peace Corps Volunteers in Chile. . . . JEREMLAH .MURPHY, while working for a Ph.D., has ^mrsued Russian area studies and has gained an inner knowledge of Chinese and Southeast Asian politics at Indiana University. Part of his ivork has taken Jcrr>' to Cambridge University and to the British Museum. His studies have also included travels in Poland, Yugoslavia, and the Soviet Union. 
Loyola University of Chicago is not only famous for its 1963 NCAA Championship in basketball — JIM WELTER, who recently became a father, will receive his la^v degree there this June. TOM ^lAM-MOSER, also at Loyola, will be conferred an 
M.A. in philosophy. TONY BARTOLIM, a newly­wed, is completing his studies at the university in the field of social and industrial relations. And your correspondent, not so lucky in the wedded bliss department, is hoping for an M.A. this June from Loyola, (that is, of course, with the help of St. Jude). 
The Class of '60 claims some of its members in the teaching profession. . . . While JOE TIRTTTEIl is on the faculty of the English Department at New-Carlisle High School, New Carlisle, Ind., FRANK HUND is teaching English at Aquinas High School in Fort Madison, Iowa. Maria Grace (who was 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 2963 55 
a vcar on May 20) is proud of her daddy, MIKE EHREN'REICH who is teaching high school in Bvi­ialoy N.Y. . . . DICK (WARREX) PIUNKETT 5s a member of the teaching staff at Xotre Dame High School id Xiles, III. And KEN BOURGOX is teaching 11th grade American histor\-, presumably in Pl>*moutfa, Mich,, as he and his wife have made tlieir home there . . . Ken also sends on the folIo»ving ncu's. , . . TOM KANE, while com­pleting his graduate work at the University of Detroit, is employed by Bell Telephone Co. . . . and JERRY CONVERSE is pursuing an M.A. in Remedial Reading at Kent State University. 
"60 grads slated for law degrees at this year's commencement exercises at Notre Dame are ED KEARSE, JI.M LEKIN, and MIKE FELDMEIER. . , . Others who received their degrees this vcar arc Hoosicrs MIKE KE.ARNS, D.W^E DOOLEV, and MIKE LAUGHLIN, all at Indiana University School of Law. . . . GENE JORD.AN and WALT WITTENBERG, both at Washington L'nivcrsity, Si. Louis. 
BRIAN M. SMITH, who received an M.B..\. last year, reports that he is industrial relations and personnel manager of the U.S. Rubber Co.'s plant in Beaver Falls, N.Y. Brian is married and has two children, Brian Paul, I, and Dcnisc, 2. 
It's reported that JOE HILGER is the recipient of an M.B.A. (June '62) and is prcscntlv working for Price Waterhouse & Co. . . . WILLIAM B. KILLILE.A is with the Guy Atkinson Co., Con­tractors and Engineers, of San Francisco, and writes that DICK BELMONT is a Na\y pilot, and Ensign TOM K,\MP has relumed from an extensive cruise in the Orient. 
Uc have a letter from REGULAR ARMY I/Lt. MICH.\EL McKEE, who is attached to the 101st .•\irbomc Divbion at Fort Campbell, Kentucky. Mike, incidentally, holds an M.A. in Sociology' from Columbia University. 
Eileen add BURT BENRUD and their two sons, Micliacl and Burt, Jr., have been spending this past year at the University of Delaware. Bun, a recipient of tiic M.W. Kellogg Scholarship (no connection to the com flakes people), will be awarded a master's in chemical engineering at summer's end. 
.•\ftcr circling the globe with the Na\y, Ensign DA\'E NAGE L is engaged in applied rescarcli as liaison officer at the Naval Research Lab in D.C. Tlie last news we had of Dave was his engagement to Carol Ann Koch. Wedding bells? . . . JIM PIELSTICKER, a recent law graduate of Oklahoma University, has been practicing in Tulsa before reporting to Ft. Eustis in June. It's rumored that P.^UL MARTO is burning the midnight oil for his doctoral tliesis in nuclear engineering at M.I.T. .ANDY POLTORAK and his wife Carol are in Ann 
•Arbor, where Andy is putting in his hours at the University of Michigan to obtain a Ph.D. in Ph>-5ics. . . . Another scientist is D.AVE ROLLER who holds an M.S. in Engineering from X.D, . . . Priscilla and CHUCK S.AWICKI will celebrate their first wedding anniversary' iliis July, The Sawickis have settled in St. Louis, Avhere Chuck joined Dun & Bradstrect after completion of his requirements for an M.B.i\. from Washington U, RAY BENDER, also received an M.B..\. from Washington U,, afld Is now working for l^'cstlng­housc in Pittsburgh, 
While accountants BOB HELFEXBEIN and M.\RIO MAURO arc working for firms in the Chicago area, HAROLD SEITZ is management training, with Jewel Tea in Wilmettc, III. Law student BOB FIXDLAY is at X.D. XORTH WOOD is studying in a doctoral program at Oklahoma University and is doing some teaching on the side. And the former Xavy Lt. (jg) FRANK BOHLEX is now associated with tlic AVoods Hole Oceano­graphic Institute. 
The University of Kentucky Mediciil Scliool has a budding ph>-sician, the future Dr. J.AMES Mc­GOU'AN. . . . JOHN BOLDLV, is working for a Ph.D. in Russian studies. . . . It's official that TORMEY WARD of San Mateo, who was married to the former Carol Kruse of Indianapolis, is in the "money business" at the Bank of California. . . . DENNY NOLAN, already an engineer of long standing at Acro-Jet in Sacramento, reports that Mr. and Mrs. JLM THOMPSON & baby have returned to the Fresno area. 
More *60 grads who arc makiag a name for them­selves in the world of business arc: MARION LEWIS> ivho is working for an investment firm in St. Louis. . . . BUD FRANZ, a 1962 bridegroom, hopes to launch a succcssftd investments career with .A.C. Mlyn &. Co. in their Chicago munidpal bond dixision. . . . BOB BEN'XETT has joined the staff 
RHODE ISLAND & S. E. MASS. —Qub President Phil Toole (upper left) collects three wcll'knowii alumni coaches at bis head table for UND Night in Providence: 
(I.-r.) Jack Zilly, former end coach at Brown and ND, now head coach for Rhode Island U.; Irish Coach Hugh Devore, a former Pro\-idence College men­tor; and Milt Piepul, a veteran at Brown. 
of .Arthur .Andersen & Co, of Chicago, . . , PAUL LOOP is in the oil business. Where can I find the personnel director? .. . and L.ARRY H.ANRAHAN is working for the U.S. Government in the \icinity of Caroline's swing and sandbox. 
NESTOR R. WEIGAND, JR. reports he is still in the ranks of the bacliclors and is in the real estate business in Wichita, Kansas . . . LARRY VANCE is electrical engineering with the Hazel-tine Electronics DiWsion of the Hazeltinc Corp. of New York .. . and finally, TO.M GUGERTY is with the Reuben H, Donnelley Corp. in Chicago. Find Tom in "The Yellow Pages"! 
Attention! World travelers! . . . You are en­couraged to contact the Xotre Dame Center in Rome, Italy, operated by the Xotre Dame Club of the Eternal City for travelers in Europe, When in Rome, phone 730002, write or sec VINCE Mc­.ALOON, Sccrctarjv X'otre Dame Center, Palazzo Brancaccio, Largo Brancaccio 82, Rome, Italy. 

From the Alumni Office: Advanced degrees ^verc awarded to ANTHONY ANDREW ACHKI (B.S, in Industrial Management) from Carnegie Institute of Technology*, to S.ALEM VINCENT AHTO (LL.B.) from Rutgers University, to GERALD LEE GOUDRE,AU (NLS.C.E,) from 
the University of Delaware, and to JAMES JOSEPH YOCH (Af.A. in Engh'sh) from Princeton University-. 1st Lt. JOSEPH M, LUKITSCH is the new-
family housing officer at Fort Carson, Colorado, super\-i5ing one of the larger real estate operations in the Pikes Peak region. Joe eventually plans to take airborne training as preparation for a Special 
Forces assignment. JAMES S. TAYLOR was elected secrclar>* of the CTS Corporation in Elkhart, Ind. Jim joined CTS as a Icsral counsel in 1960 and u-as elected assistant secrctar>' last year, JAMES MELKA has been sampling schools for the last three years, Jim just graduated from Western Elcctric's Engineering Training Center in Chicago. He has done graduate work at Stanford U., John Carroll U., and presently is working toward his 
M.S. in business administration (mathematical methods and computers) at the University of Chicago. How about that!!! 
Wc received a letter from GER.ALD LALLY in late April filled with accounts of his activities since graduation. In 1960, he received a Dougherty Fellow­ship (tuition, room and board scholarship) to Vtllanoi:3 University School of Law. Jerry says he has enjoyed his stay at Villanova but "it does not measure up to (his) four years at Xotre Dame," At the time of his letter, he was scheduled to gradu­ate in June and take the New Jersey Bar Exam in July, (Did you pass, Jcrr>'?) Then, he will serve a clerkship for a year, working in the court house in Jersey City* All this is most interesting, but the main point of his letter was to inform us of his engagement. He will be married to Maureen O'SuUi­van on X'ovembcr 30. 1963. She is a graduate of Rosemont College ('62) and is working for her master's in psychology- at Fordham. To put it mildly, Jerry was ecstatic with his new station in life. Both Jerr>- and Maureen plan to attend the Syracuse game in Xew York this fall. 
From DON B.AUMGARTNER: "Graduated from 

X.D. in '60 — from Har\-3rd Graduate Scliool of Business in *63, and am now a graduate of 'father­hood'— whatta great life!" Seed he say more? Joan presented Don \vith a boy» Dana Maura (7 lb. 4 oz.) on May 31, 1963. 
ROBERT J. DIERSING was married to Carolyn Dcyo, December 22, 1962, (Old news is still good news.) Best man was CH.ARLES MacMlLL.AN and ushers xvcre THEODORE DeBAENE and PAUL FLASK. Bob earned a research assbtantship at Ohio State University, receiving his M.S. in June of '62. He is now a research scientist at Baiellc Memorial Institute. 
SIX NEW PRIESTS of Holy Cross were ordained in June by Most Rev. Mark McGrath, CS.C. M5, auxiliary bishop of Panama, exercising his power of ordination for the first time since his consecration. Taking part in the campus ceremony (l.-r.): Rev. James M. Sherer. C.S.C-, Bowling Green, O,; Rev. Bernardo R. Giovannone, CS.C, Dearborn, Mich.; Rev. Michael J. Heppen, CS.C, Anderson, Ind.; Bishop McGrath; Rev. Thomas C. Brenner, C.5.C, Mankato, Minn.; Rev. John £. Buchalo, CS.C, Chicago, 111.; and Rev. Charles W. Kohlerman, CS.C, Painesvillc, O. 
56 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 1963 
WESTERN WASHINGTON —Don Zech, '34 (right), head basketball coach for Seattle's Blanchet High School and newly appointed freshman mentor for the U. of Washington, receives the congratulations of Father Hesburgh and Club President Fred Hoover, '43, as 1963 Man of the Year for the Western Washington Club. 
1961 
Nick Palihnich 34 Dartmouth Road West Orange, N. J. 
(Ed. Note: If the news below seems dated it is because Secretar>' Palihnich's spring tidings got de­layed in the mails and arrived after the forms were locked on the June-July issue. —J-L.) 
The last day of winter has finally passed and once again that wonderful season of spring is* upon us. The first item of Alumni news of the new season comes from TIM HINCHEY. Tim recently reported to the XaN-y's Postgraduate School at Monterey. California, where he will be enrolled in a science program for at least a year's lime. Also studying in California under a Na^y sponsored program, JIM CASSIDY is enrolled in the Naval Civil Engineers Corps Officer's School. He is presently engaged to Miss Katie Sachs and the couple is looking for^vard to a November wedding. PAUL MURPHY has been assigned to duty at the Naval Supply Center, Oak­land, Cal. In the near future, he will be transferred to Argcntia, Newfoundland, to work on a con­struction project. Another N.D. architect, BILL FAY is currently scr\-ing Na\y duty in the San Diego area. Within a short period of time, he will be assigned to the U.S.S. Wright, operating out of Bremerton, Washington. LARRY ERICKSON is stationed at Fort Hood, Texas, with the 1st Armored Division. Last June, he and the former Miss Darlene Williams were married in Bay City, Michigan. Two other Notre Dame couples, Mr. & ^frs. JOHN PIDICK, and PAUL HOLMAN and his wife arc also at Fort Hood. After completing six months in the Army as a radio mechanic at Fort Riley, Kansas, JERRY SHELTON has returned to his position with Firestone in Atlanta. Last July he became the proud father of a baby boy. CHARLEY PRAWDZIK is now stationed at Fort Buchanan, Puerto Rico, with the 81st Army Band. 
In June DICK WILSON will complete hts second year of law school at the University of Louisville. Right after exams he will marry Miss Martha Turner of Louis\-iIIe, on June 8, 1963. KEN ANDERSON received his M.B.A. degree from Texas Christian University this past January'. Before entering an Air Force Reserve six-month program in March, Ken took a trip to the Mardi Gras festivities in New Orleans, and at the same time attended the wedding of "TIGER" TIM MONAHAN and Joan Rivas, who were married in that city on Feb. 25. BILL HENNEGHAN, BILL CRONIN, JIM NACK, and JOHN TULLY were also scheduled to attend the ceremony. A special note of congratulations to MAURICE JOHN O'SULLIVAN, who won the Harlan Fiskc Stone Prize, awarded for the best oral argument presented before the Yale Law School 
^{oot Court of Appeals, consisting of Mr. Justice Potter Stewart and Mr. Justice Byron White of the United States Supreme Court and Judge Thurgood Marshall of the U.S. Court of Appeals. JOHN BURNS is currently in his second year at the University of Iowa Law School. John is also a member elect of the three-man board of editors of the law school newspaper, the Advocate. 
Witliout a doubt the most scintillating news of the spring season stems from our former S.B.P., JOHN "THE NOJ" KEEGAN. John spent a week in Bermuda at Easter time, and the way thb guy ^'handled the situation" down there was simply unbelievable. He broke more hearts in one week than Cary Grant has in a lifetime. Bermuda will never forget him and I'm certain the Island will never be the same again. 
JIM WALLACE and Miss Joan Meyer were marfted on November 10, 1962, at St. Benedict's Church in Richmond, Va. BILL AMANN, also a member of the Class of '61 from Chicago, was an usher in the wedding. Jim is now employed by the Reynolds Metal Co. as a buyer in the purchasing department. An April wedding for TOM Dc-PRETORO and Judith Gail Dejonghe, in St. Mary's Church, Paterson, New Jersey, also for BREND.-VN O'NEILL and Deanna Lewin, formerly of Mundeleln College in Chicago. In May the Air Force will transfer Brendan and Deanna to Lakenhcath Air Force Base, England, for his final year in the Air Force. 
Judy and GEORGE MACOR announced the ar­rival of a daughter, Ellen Catherine on March 11, 1963. 
MIKE CRONIN is now a registered representative for McKeown and Co. in Chicago. JOE INGARRA is uorking H"ith his lather at Duralab, manufacturers of laboratory equipment. Joe was also fortunate enough to catch the Easter "scene" in Bermuda. 
FRED SHAIA is now in his second year at the Medical College of Virginia. Last summer he married Rose Slyman and they now have a son, Lawrence Thomas. GREG GEHRED will receive his M.S. in chemical engineering from MIT this spring, and then, taking a complete reversal of form, he will enter Med. School in the fall. D.WE GALLO is in his second year of business school at Stanford, majoring in marketing. RON PYSZKA, also at Stanford is working towards a Ph.D. in communica­tions. He is president of the Newman Club on campus. BILL O'CONNELL, after using a Ful­bright scholarship to study in Germany last year, is now working for a Ph.D. in theoretical physics at Stanford. TED DcWITT is attending the Southern California School of Dentistry. I have JIM KAVAL to thank for all the above mentioned news items. Jim will receive his M.B.A. from Stanford !n June. From all reports he has reaped the full benefits' of a California education. 
OLLIE WILLIAMS is assigned to the U.S.S. Vocono on a JVIcdJlcrranean cruise. BRUCE JOHN­
ROCHESTER — Celebs for UJf.D. Night at the Downtowner Restaurant, Rochester, N.Y., included (horn 2eft) retiring Club President John Casey, University guest Fr. Louis Thornton, 1963 Man of the Year Donald K. Booth, President James Ooylc. 
YOUNGSTOWN —Program Chainnan Joseph Linden reflects the amasanciit of the audience at a sally by President Oliver Hunter of the NatitMui Ahunni Board, principal speaker for Universal Notre Dame Night in Youngstown-Warrcn, Ohio. 
SON, also in the Navy Is aboard the aircraft carrier U.S.S. Bennington, operating out of San Diego. TOM GIEL Is presently stationed at Pen­dleton with the Marines. 
J.^CK &fITCHELL decided to forego a promistng career in professional baseball and is now in an executive training program with a banking firm in Dallas, Texas. 
From the Alumni Office: Service Notes. Army 1st Lt. CLAUDE R. CECCON participated in a massive display of missiles, artillery and engineer equipment in honor of President Kennedy's visit in Hanau, Gcnnany, June 23. Claude entered the Army in June I96I and has been in Germany since October of '61. 1st Lt. PHILIP U. BONDI was assigned as an assistant Adjutant General in late April to Headquarters, 
U.S.
 Array Pacific in Hawaii. 2nd Lt. FREDERICK 

R.
 RALPH has completed an eight-week field artil­lerv officer orientation at Fort Sill, Okla., early in May. 1st Lt. BRENDAN D. O'NEILL and his wife Deanna are now at Lakenhcath RAF Station In England. 2nd Lt. JOHN J. DOHERTY Is being reassigned to Dover AFB, Delaware, following his graduation from the flying training course for C-I24 pilots. LAWRENCE F. KOLASA has been com­missioned a 2nd lieutenant at the USAF Training School at Lackland AFB, Texas. Larry was honored as a distingubhed graduate at the ceremonies. He will be assigned to Norton AFB, California, for permanent duty following a completion of the weapons controller officer course at Kcssler AFB, Miss. JA&fES M. DEE has becii conunusioned a 2nd lieutenant, and was reassigned to NelUs AFB, Nevada, as an administrative officer. PETER R. REILLY H-as graduated as a 2nd lieutenant in the USAF OTS at Lackland AFB. and was assigned to Boiling AFB, Washington, D.C., as an administrative officer. Hb new address b 439 Kennebec St., Apt. 3-A, Wash. 21. Pete married Janice Marie Heikcn on February 9, 1963. 


PAUL S. DORWEILER has been employed as a bank examiner for F.D.I.C. since graduation. Pawl's territory b Montana, the Dakotas, Wisconsin and Minnesota, with headquarters, at Minneapolb. Tlie Dorweilers had their first boy, Paul Gleason, on February 12, 1963. 
JOSEPH W. BETTE is now serving with the Peace Corps in India; hb address b Peace Corps Hostel, Jagraon Road, Ludhiana, Punjab, India. 
THOMAS EWING MARGRAVE, JR., received lib M.5. in Aeronautical Engineering from Rens­selaer Polytechnic Institute in June. FRANK MICHAEL GEDDES received hb Master in Busi­ness Administration with dbtinction (approximate­ly the top 13% of the graduating class of 600] from The Han'ard University Graduate School of Business Adminbtration. GEORGE WILLIAM CRAVEN and THOMAS CASHION JORDAN now have their M.S. in Industrial Adminbtration from the Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
GREGORY HELLRUNG is the new Comment 
Notre Dame AlumnttSt August-September, 1963 57 
PHILADELPHIA —UN D Night principals (I.-r.) were Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., guest speaker; James P. Leydon, president of the Philadelphia Club; Barton 
B. Johnson, N.D. Man of the Year; and Fourth Horseman Jim Crowley, loastniaster. 
and Case Xolc Editor for tlic Calliolic Uiiivcniity Law Review, chosen for display al tlic World's Fair in Seattle. 
Law Class of 1961 
John N. Morcland 
Attorney at Law 
202 Fresh BIdg. 
119 East Second St. 
Ottumwa, Iowa 
LT. DAVE KELSEY wrote frfim 2118 Camenm Dr., Apt. 1-A, Baltimore, Md.. of tbc arrival of his son, Thomas Hadle\-. Dave is teaching legal principles at the Army Counlcrintelligencc School at Fort Holibird. Md. Dave will be uitb the firm of Smith. Kikcr and Ran^on after December, 1963. BILL LUFF and family are nmv in Wash­ington. D.C., where *'Sam*' is with the IRS. 
TO.M SHAFFER will return t(. S.B. in the fall to teach estate planning. Meanincj???? Tom and Nancy finally got the little gal they have been hoping for — Mary Margaret, born Fcbniarj' 11. 1963 — she will probably be starting school by tbc time I get this written, and it is published. D.WE LINK and Barb wrote that they sec quite a bit of the *61 clan in Washington, including ROD METTE, who was married to Mar\' Alice O'Boylc on the fir>t of June, 1963. at Sioux Falls, South Dakota. Rod is also working for JFK in D.C. TOM KAVADAS (quo) has been appointed chief deputy state's attorney for \Miileside County, Illi­nois, along with keeping his private practice goinc in Sterling, Illinois. Got that last bit from ART ROULE, who is now gung ho .Air Force in Du­luth, Minnesota, and li\ing ofT campus with another Hoosier who shares his plight. Art's address: Bov 197, Duluth 14, Minn. SOAPY WEBBER was mar­ried to Judith Louise Ogren on tlic 22nd of June at Muskegon Heights. Mich. CONGR.ATS to Soapv and his bride. JOHN DUNN, Art Roulc and myself, along with HUGH McGUIRE, JOHN 
R. SULLIVAN, LES MURPHY and other '58 grads got together in S.B. last week for our Fjve-Year Reunion. GERRY GALLIVAN has just passed through S.B. on his way to Iowa for JIM HAR­RINGTON'S wedding in Iowa City, but I missed him. I believe that Gcrr%- is clerking in Ohio, but didn't get the caty. Next item comes from Polly and JIM TALAGAj who are in California, and have pur­chased 60 acres of land and 2 horses. Polly is teaching, and Jim is in the U.S..\.F. TOM Mc-NISH and wife Jovce have a new arrix-al. named Tliomas Willson. FROG BONNIUTLL is at Brook Army Hospital now, San Antonio. John Francis Dunn HI was bom last spring—weight inc. slide rule 
— 9 lbs. BULLETI.N*: Tlie Original LEONARD FINGERMAN, is now a T.V. regular, appearing on the McHale's Xa\"y (sic) show weekly. Quite a comedoun from President, but we knew be would make good. Sorr>' about the late column, but keep the news coming. 
1962 
Tcrrencc McCarthy 23420 Wellington Mt. Clements, Mich. 
From the Alumni Office: The .Armed Forces have provided most of the news for this issue. So. here. we go . . . 
Germany. Army 2nd Lt. RICHARD J. CORSO recently completed a German language course while ser\ing with the 205th Transportation Bat­talion. Dick, not only a lieutenant, is also a bat­talion motor and safety officer. 2nd Lt. RON.ALD 
A. MICEK was assigned to the 84th Ordnance Bat­talion as a platoon leader. Also a platoon leader. 2nd Lt. ROBERT K. KELLEY, JR., comp^ijrd a tlirec-day annual training test with other mciJIbcrs of his company at Baumboldcr. 
Army 2nd Lts. RUDOLPH J. KOLOSZAR, JR. and DAVID A. BOUTON completed eight-week officer orientation courses. Rudolph at Fort Knox, Ky.. and Dave at Fort Benning, Ga. 2nd Lt. ROGER WILKE completed an eight-week material maintenance officer course at The Signal Center, Fort Monmouth. X.J.. in late May. 2nd Lt. PETER L. PACE was assigned to the stafT at WaUon Army Hospital at Fort Dix, N.J. Peter jiLsi moved north from Houston. 2nd Lt. WILLIAM 
J. BOLT was awarded the Expert Infantr\*man's Badge while assigned to the 1st Armored Division at Fort Hood, Texas, The badge is the Army's highest peacetime proficiency award for skilled and combat readv infantr\*men. Bill is a platoon leader. 2nd Lt. JOHN W. CROWX has com­pleted a nine-week field artillerx* officer orientation course at the .Artillery' and Missile Center, Fort Sill. Okla. 1st Lt. RAY.MOND W. BROU-N, JR., participated in Exercise LOGEX 63 at Fort Lee. Va. Tlie project was to administer support and supply fftr a hypothetical field army of 4(K),000 locked :it combat in central and southeastern Europe. 
2nd Lt. DAVID C. RICHARDSON is being reas­signed t(» McClellan AFB, Calif., following Jiis graduation from tbc US.AF course for communica­tion officers. Airman 3rd Class BARRY J. HURTZ has been awarded the American Spirit Honor Medal at Amarillo AFB, Tex. Commissioned 2d lieutenants 
m 
YOU CAN HELP NOTRE DAME 
BY 
Sending a personal contribution 
Submitting names of friends inter­ested in the University 
Advising N.D. Foundation Office if your company has a 'plan of giving" 
Infonning University of your cor­poration's 'areas of interest' 
Remembering the University in your Will or Bequest 
Contributing gifts other than money 
(i.e. paintings, equipment, books, etc) 
Naming the University as a benefici­ary in your insurance policy 
Listing names and addresses of Foun­dations in your community 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAUE FOUNDATION, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

PATRICK J. KENNY, S.J., '49, a half-mile standout on Notre Dame's postwar track and field teams, has been running a different kind of race for the past 12 years. On June 13 he attended the most important alumni meeting in his life when a fellow alumnus, Bishop Bernard J. Topel, Ph.D., ordained him in Spokane, Wash. Father Pat anchored the relays, won three monograms and the Indiana 880 championship before graduation. After a year with General Petroleum in his native Seattle, he entered the Society of Jesus for study in Washington, Oregon and Cali­fornia; was vice-president of the Spokane ND Club in 1936-57 and trained present ND half-miler Pat Conroy as a teacher-coach in Portland, Ore. Father Kenny said his First Mass on June 23 in Seattle, taking summer studies there before a final year of theology al Alma College, Calif. 
at Lackland .-VFB. Tcv., upon gradnatiun fntni OTS »crc: JAMES E. NOWAK, RAY.MO.\D 
F. JANSE.\, JAMES B. RY.VN, -MICHAEL C. .MacDO.VALD. DE.\NIS E. BOYLE and WILLIAM 
T. DON.\HUE. Jim (.Vo>iak) will be rcassiRncd lo Rccsc AFB. Tex,, lo commence pilol training; Ray­mond, to Wright-Patterson AFB, Oliio, as a de­velopment engineer: Jim (Ryan), a distinguished graduate, to Pope AFB, X.C-, for duty as a supply oflicer; Mike, to Charleston AFB, S.C, as an administrative oflicer; Dennis, to a imit of the US-AF in Europe as a weapons controller; and Bill, to James Connally AFB, Tex-, for navigator training-
PAUL F. SLATTERY, of Hartford, Conn., is one of ten graduate students at Yale University appointed to predoctoral trainceship in the space-related sciences under a $205,500 grant to Yale from the National Aeronautics and Space .\dminis­
tration. Paul will receive support for three vears of studv. ROBERT L. HUTCHINS received his .M.S. in E.E., and ROBERT P. HARRILL, his 
M.S. in M.E., at Caniegie Institute of Technologv* last June. 
GREG PRE.MO was passing through South Bend and called our office. Greg's wife Diane had their second boy, Chris, last November. Greg is em­ployed at the Redwood Motel in Burlington. Vt. He informed us that JERRY KEEFE (from Winterhaven, Florida) completed training at Fort Knox, and is now in Seoul. Korea. He also re­ported that John Dicks* father died in February. Surely the . Class will remember him in their prayers. .At this lime, John is stationed in Korea. 
Returning to South Bend after a stint in the .Air Force and working on the sports slafT at \WYX , Erie, Pa.. DO.N CRIQUI was appointed sports director of WSBT and WSBT-TV. 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 
Thanks to Mrs. THOMAS REGAN, «e Iiavc nt'ws of Tom, Jr. He is in the Peace Corps serx-Ing as an architect in the Public Works Dept. of the Malayan government in Kuantan. She writes: **Hc will complete his first year in July. Attended Northern Illinois University in preparing for Iiis post and has been in Malaya since last September. . . . There are luo architects tii the State he 

, serx'es (Pahany). He works under a Chinese archi­^ lect (Melbourne educated). Turn says he likes it. , tropical heat and monsoons not withstanding." I'oni 'can be reached at the Public Works Department. _ Kuantan, Pahany, Malaya, for any of ynu in the I ^rea. r ;• JOHN P. MURPHY. JR., who plans to bc­ictme a medical artist, recently made news tr>*ing r his hand at casting and painting reproductions of ' those prize catches (fish, we mean). John makes 
a plaster of Paris irast of the fish, and then paints it to match the original fish. This w-ay, fisherman can cat thetr catches. Independent of this hobby. John is taking day courses in physiology and figure drawing at Cornell before entering Johns Hopkins University for medical arts ami graduate study. 
Law Class of 1962 
Paul K. Rooney 700 Victory Boulevard Statcn Island, New York 
Gin and tunic braced the BOB COXES, Marge, and niy.srif in Alexandria. Virginia, Memorial Day wi-i-kend. Robert Andrew, Jr., stuck to warm milk and wide-eyed attention to Pop. who is proceeding apace at the SEC. Hie Coxes were preparing for a picnic the next day with the rest of the Notre Dame Washlngtonians, and Bob was in charge of the liquid refreshments. The picnic was mined out. We assume the refreshments were not. 
Heard that JIM GOETHALS, GEORGE Mc-ANDREWS, and MIKE PHENNER were at Chlca­go*s Universal Notre Dame Night in April. Jim is with Hasklns & Sells; upon completion of their respective clerkships, George will strike out with a patent firm while Mike becomes combat-ready with 
j.A.a. 
Speaking of the Army. Lieutenant JIM SCHRIN­ER and wife are stationed In Germany. BOB VI­VERK.A is no longer missing in action; he was last seen rearing his head at Fort Lewis, \Vashington. where he does legal work with J.A.G. MIKE CONNORS has joined the ranks of us reser\*Ists, having recently completed his si.x-month tour of duly. 
GiM>d Old Mountain Dew-ers. beware! We hear JOE ALBRIGHT is contemplating setting up a criminal law practice down in Kentucky. That's one way of dabbling In still life. 
Asking what the countr\' could do for Minnesota, JOE SU.MMERS was last seen in D.C. drum­ming up the drummable for Miiuiesota's .Attorney General's Office. 

Which brings us to the end of the grapevine. Waiting for all those birth announcements, en­graved letterheads, etc. 
1963 
Francis Dicello 218 Palmer Hill Road Old Greenwich, Connecticut 

From llie Alumni Olficc: RAYMOND J. BONANNO, who recently joined Ford Nfotor Co. on tlie Collfge Graduate Training Program, lias ' been appointed accoimtant for tile Company's finance staff. 
Dr. WILLIAM L. NANCE lias been named as­sistant professor of English at St. Mar\"*s Uni­versily in San Antonio, Texas. Bill's specially is American literature. 
GEORGE F. TRAVERS lias been awarded a National Defense Education Act fellowship to study for his doctorate in the field of quantitative analysis at the University of Chicago. 
LAWRENCE C. LUTHER was named executive secretary of the Ed. J. Luther Beverages, Inc. Larry has been doing sales promotion work for the company while studying for his degree in com­merce. He and his wife have one child. 
The appointment of ANTHONY SI.MON as chief juvenile probation officer was announced in June.- He just received his master's degree in cor­rectional administration from N.D. 
INTERNATIONAL participants in a late April conference on "Religion and Social Change in Latin America" included (l.-r.): Dr. Fredrick Pike, associate professor of history, conference co-chairman; Eduardo Frei Montalva, Christian Democratic senator from Chile; Robert T. Alemann, ambassador from Argentina; Rev. R<^r E. Vckemans, S.J., director of the school of sociology. Catholic University of Chile; and Dr. William D'Antonio, conference co-chairman, assistant professor of sociology. 
MIAMI — Part of some 60 Miami Club delegates among the 230 at Florida's "Inter­national" State Convention identify themselves during weekend festivities at West End, Grand Bahama Island. Center is ND's Fr. James Moran, C.S.C. 
PITTSBURGH — Award-winning poet-professor. Dr. Samuel Hazo, '48, associate dean of Arts & Sciences, Duquesne University, was honored as the Pittsbu^h Club's ND Man of the Year. At left he is shown with his wife and mother, at right in a moment of high hilarity on ND Night with other principals (L-r.): Father John Walsh, University \-ice-prcsident for public relations & development; Jim Beymer, chairman of the event; Dr. Hazo; and Don Bebcnek, Pittsbu^h president. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1963 59 
2_'.•/'"• ^yi 22
Uiss :ai'i3 K. Box 525 Notre Dams, Indiana 

Office of the President of The University of Notre 'Dame Alumni Association 
Dear Chosen Alumnus: 

The month of June, last, materialized into a memorable month in OUR histoiy . . . the World, the United States, and us of Notre Dame, that is: 
Pope John XXIII's untimely death shocked the world. During his last moments, his name was on everyone's lips from Sister Francis Charles, secluded in upper New York State, to Prcmier Nikita Khrushchev, from behind the drab curtain (although their "tones" were different). In an anticipated move, Giovanni Cardinal Montini (LL.D., Notre Dame, I960) was confirmed as the Vicar of Christ on Eartli as he chose the name of Pope Paul VI. 
The University graduated one of the largest classes in our histoiy, and although it featured numerous brilliant students, it was, perhaps, the most controversial. 
( 

."Athletic Director Edward (Moose) Krause announced that June concluded Notre Dame's most successful overall "win and loss" record in our histoiy. 
In conclusion, regarding the month of June, our campus witnessed a memorable Class Reunion celebration during the June 14th weekend, both from the standpoint of attendance and enthusi­asm. Saturday night's dinner finale featured a dramatic speech by our esteemed President, Father Theodore M. Hesburgh! 
Our Alumni Board also was in session for its second meeting of the year. The appointment of Timotiiy J. Toomey, '30, Boston, Mass., Club, to replace Adam J. Walsh, '25, the U. S. Marshal from Portland, Maine, who had to resign due to pressing business, was unanimous. A new impor­tant committee was organized, namely, the Committee on Academic Affairs in hopes of assisting the busy Rev. Chester A. Soleta, Vice-President of Academic Affairs, and more fully to keep the alumni abreast of the activities and accomplishments of that department. Rev. John E. ^VaIsh was named Vice-President in charge of Public Relations, an office which our Public Relations Committee highly recommended for some time. And lastly, in a move oft discussed by Board mem­bei-s, a resolution was adopted to request the Administiation to name the President of the Alumni' .'Association to the University Athletic Board primarily for the purpose of presenting the sentiments of the Alumni when major adiletic changes are contemplated. The Board sincerely hopes that this request will be granted. 
Resjjectfully submitted. 

Oliver H. Hunter, III, '43 President 







